Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



800076771 



I 



3 



A HANDBOOK OF 

COOKERY. 



.M^ jSmefif ot ^rartiral 3Bc^000n0. 



BY 



MATILDA LEES DODS, 

DTPLibu^R OF THX SOUTH KENSINGTON SCHOOL OF COOKEAY. 



A^ 



gyoTHe, 



a 



'-i 



T^rCWTER2 •) 




;Ec0njb0tt: 

T. NELSON AND SONS, PATERNOSTER ROW. 

EDINBURGH; AND NEW TOBK. 
1881. 



PBBFACE. 



The question will naturally be asked, in connection with 
this volume, Why is such a work required at all ? Is there 
not already an abundance of books devoted to and exhaust- 
ing the various branches of the subject, from the mono- 
graph which discusses all the points and possibilities of cold 
mutton, to the "Complete Housewife," whose ** common - 
sense" suggestions and elaborate instructions range over 
all possible topics, from the currying of a lobster to the 
management of a husband 1 

To such a criticism we should reply, that cookery is now 
accepted as both a science and an art. As a science it is, of 
course, subject to all the laws of natural development ; while 
as an art it can also lay claim to the privileges of continued 
inspiration ; and the disciples of to-day need not admit that 
all wisdom has died with the prophets who have taught in 
the past In sober earnest, there has beeu, during the past 
few years, a much more general recognition of the fact that 
the work of cooking — upon which depends so much of the 
comfort and, in fact, the happiness of existence — cannot be 
successfully carried on in a hap-hazard or in a " hit-or-miss" 
fashion. The interests imperilled are too serious and the 



IV PREFACE. 

results of failures too grave. It requires and demands care- 
ful, persistent study, and should utilize also all possible in- 
genuity and creative power that can be pressed into service. 
Originality of conception, thoroughness of knowledge, and 
precision of method may be said to be as important for the 
practice of cookery as for the practice of medicine ; and it is 
very evident that the more fully these are called into play for 
the former, the greater the prospect of getting rid altogether 
of the latter. 

The due recognition, during the past decade, of the proper 
position of this branch of human knowledge has led to the 
establishment of institutions planned to give instruction in 
the principles of cooking, and to further its higher develop- 
ment as a fine art; and during the next few years we hope 
to see the number of such institutions largely increased. 
Having obtained a first class diploma from the Kensington 
School of Cookery, with this in my possession, and a defi- 
nite purpose before me of doing what was in my power to 
further the knowledge of my fellow-women and the comfort 
of my fellow-men, I could no longer feel that my life was 
aimless, even though my work should have no higher 
^' range" than that of the kitchen. In course of my work 
with classes I have found that there was quite a general 
demand for a book that should embody, with somewhat 
more comprehensiveness and completeness of detail than was 
possible in any single course of lectures, the whole range of 
instruction, and should give the particular application of the 
general principles, — a book that should be, not a mere stereo- 
typed schedule of dinners, suppers, and breakfasts, nor a 
depressing list of semi-intelligible recipes, but one that 
should present a comprehensive insight into the general 
rules for the intelligent preparation of food, and at the same 
time clearly describe the several means and processes of 



PREFACE. V 

arriving at desired results. In response to such demand 
this volume has been prepared. Nothing has been included 
in it of which the practical worth has not been thoroughly 
tested ; and it is believed that the examples have been so 
selected that, although of necessity limited in number, they 
demonstrate the whole theory and practice of the culinary 
art, and will make the reader familiar with the most 
approved methods and the latest attainments therein. 

The purpose of our work is now set forth, although, if the 
whole story were told, it might be proper to show how the 
original cook-book grew from an onion, the veritable 

" Piece of chalot 
Which she never forgot." 

But this touches the romance of the whole matter, without 
which nothing, however prosaic^ is complete. With such 
prose and such suggestions of romance as belong to my sub- 
ject, these pages are now submitted to the interpretation of 
those to whom my book is most affectionately dedicated — 
the world-wide sisterhood of housewives and their husbands 
— ^trusting that through its instrumentality all may be con- 
vinced that, while Heaven still furnishes the food, the Pro- 
methean fire of knowledge has redeemed the cooks. 



CONTENTS. 



SOTTPS, 

PtTRBES, .. 

OtSTBRS and OTHEK SHSLLnSH, 

•f XS Ay • • • • 

Mbats— 
Roasts, 

Boiled Meats, . . 
Cold-Meat Dishes, 
Broiled and Fried, 
Game, 
Entr^s, 

Veobtablzs, 

SAIiADS, . . 

Croquettes and Frittsbs— 
Croquettes, 
Fritters, 

SOTTTFLBS, 
PUDDING», 

Sweet and Sayoubt Sauces — 
Savoury Sauces, 
Sweet Sauces, . . 




19 
23 
31 

39 
43 
57 
66 
70 
76 

91 

109 

116 

lao 

124 
ISO 

164 
158 



Vlll CONTENTS. 




IcBS, Creams, and Jellies— 




Ices, 


leo 


Creams, 


163 


Jellies, 


169 


Pies and Pastries — 




Pastries, 


178 


Pies, 


176 


Bread and Cakes — 




Bread, 


179 


Cakes, 


186 


Breakfast Dishes, 


192 


Teas, Coffees, and Chooolatr, 


207 


Miscellaneous Dishes, 


208 



e:e7 to diagrams. 



ox. 



1 Shin. 

2 Clod. 
8 Neck 
4 Cheek. 

6 Chuck Bib. 

6 Middle Bib. 

7 Fore Bib. 

8 Sirloin. 



17 Leg. 



9 Shoulder. 

10 Brisket. 

11 Thin Flank. 

12 Bump. 

13 Edge Bone. 

14 Bound. 

16 Veiny Piece. 
Id Mouse Buttock. 



1 Shoulder. 

2 Breast. 

8 Back Bibs. 
4 Best End Neck. 



6 Scrag End Neck. 

6 Head. 

7 Saddle. 

8 Leg. 



PIG. 



1 Hand. 

2 Leg. 

8 Hind Loin. 



7 Fore Loin. 



4 Spring. 
6 Spare Bib. 
6 Head. 




GOOSE OR DUCK. 




ROAST FOWL. 




COD*S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 



SIRLOIN OF BEEF. 

Oabve first in slices the under-cut as shown by lines in engraving. 
Carve upper part in slices from A to B, serving with each slice a 
little fat from D. 

BIBS OF BEEF. 

Carve from A to B. Serve with slices pieces of fat cut from D. 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Should be laid on dish skin side uppermost. The leaner parts 
ought to be cut straight to the bone from 1 to 2. Delicate slices 
may be cut on each side of blade-bone from 3 to 4. The *' oyster 
cut" — the most tender — ^lies under the blade-bone. The fat ought 
to be cut in very thin slices. (See engraving, <8%eep, 6.) 

LEQ OF MUTTON. 

Under Part, 

Place this joint with skin side next to the dish it is served on. 
Cut in slices fat and lean togel^er. 

Upper Part, 

Place this joint on dish with skin side uppermost. Carve in 
straight lines from A to B. 

FORE QUARTER OF LAMB. 

Remove first the shoulder by placing the carving-knife at 1 and 
cutting round to 2 and 3. Place the shoulder on one side, and cut 
in a straight line from 3 to 4. Serve then ribs, or thin part of 
breast, according to choice. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Cut long slices from both sides of the breast from B to A. The 
legs may then be removed and the thighs separated from the drum- 
sticks. The wings ought then to be removed. The joint of the 
pinion w£Q be foimd a little below B. Should the body be stuffed, 
an incision must be made at to remove it. 



XXIV DIRECTIONS FOR OARVING. 



BOILBD TURKEY. 

This differs from roast turkey only in the manner of trussing. 
(See directions for trussing boiled fowl.) For carving, follow 
directions given for roast turkey. 

GOOSEl OB DUCK. 

Cut in slices from A to B on both sides of breast. To do this 
conveniently the neck end ought to be placed towards the carver. 
Should the legs be required, turn the fowl on its side, place the 
fork in the thin end of the leg at C, press the leg close to the body, 
insert the knife at J), turn back the leg, and the joint will then 
separate easily. 

BOAST CHICKEN. 

Place the fork firmly in the leg, insert the knife between the leg 
and body, and cut close to the bone. Turn then the leg back with 
the fork, and the joint will give way. Kemove the wings in the 
direction from A to B, dividing the shoulder joint with the knife. 
Remove now the merry -thought by inserting the knife at C and 
following the bone with it. Divide now the breast from the car- 
cass by cutting through the rib bones close to the breast. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

Carved in the same manner as roast chicken. If either be large, 

the breast may be cut in slices, as directions for roast turkey are 

given. 

ROAST PARTRIDGE. 

Follow directions for carving chicken. 

COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. 

Carve from 1 to 2, taking the slices as low as 3. Serve with each 
slice of the fish a piece of the sound which lines the back bone. 

SALMON. 

This and all short-grained fish ought to be cut lengthwise, and 
not across, portions of the thick and thin being served together. 

HADDOCK. 

This is served in same way as cod. 

MACKEREL. 

Mackerel are generally served in slices from head to tail, cat- 
ting close to bone. 



A HATOBOOK OF COOKERY. 



-M- 



SOUPS-PIRST DIVISION. 

Brown Stock. — For this stock there will be required 
material in the following quantities : — 

Four pounds of the shin of beef, four young carrots, four 
Bermuda onions, one small turnip, one half -head of celery, 
one half table-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of white 
pepper-corns, one half tea-spoonful of black pepper-corns. 

First, cutting all of the meat from the bone, remove the 
marrow, and break up the bone with a hammer. 

Pat the meat and bone together in a large sauce-pan, and 
pour over these five pints of cold water, placing the sauce- 
pan over the fire. 

Bring the water now quickly to the boiling-point and 
skim off, when boiling, all of the scum that rises to the 
surface. Throw into the sauce-pan then the salt, which will 
bring any remaining albumen or scum to the top; when, 
skimming once more, add to the contents of the pan the car- 
rot, turnip, and celery, all cut into very small pieces. Before 
adding the onion blanch it with boiling water, to draw from 
it the greenness which produces indigestion; having done 
which, put it together with the pepper-corns into the sauce- 
pan and allow all again to boil. 

When this is done, draw the sauce-pan to the side of the 



10 SOUPS. 

fire, cover it closely, and allow its contents to simmer slowly 
for five hours ; at the end of which time the stock should be 
strained through a clean towel to remove the meat and 
vegetables, the juices and flavour of which have been ex- 
tracted, and put away to cool for future use. 

Note.— Water boils at a temperature of 212 degrees, and to boil 
meat in it for eating, or to prepare stock, the water having been first 
brought to the boiling-point, should be permitted to fall to a tem- 
perature of 160 degreeOf to prevent the meat hardening. 

A second stock can be made from the meat and bones used for 
the first, by covering them again with cold water, adding some 
fresh vegetables, and bringing all to the boiling-point; allowing the 
preparation to simmer slowly thereafter for four hours. 

Clear Soup. — Material and quantities required : — 

One quart of brown stock, the whites and shells of two 
eggs, and as much salt and pepper as can be held between 
the thumb and finger. 

The stock must have been allowed to become quite cold, 
when it will have thickened and set. Then, dipping the 
comer of a towel in boiling water, wash the grease from the 
top. 

Now put the stock into a sauce-pan and allow it to melt — 
a copper sauce-pan is preferable. Put the whites and shells 
of the two eggs into a small bowl, add to them half a gill 
of cold water and the salt and pepper. 

When the stock has melted add the eggs so prepared, and 
with two forks whisk the whole briskly until it boils. 

The instant the soup boils cover the sauce-pan closely and 
draw it aside from the fire, and allow it to simmer for ten 
minutes. 

Then strain through a clean towel, taking care not to 
break the crust which the eggs have formed at the top in 
process of clearing, and it is ready to serve. 

Note. — Macaroni and vermicelli soup are made from this clear 
soup by simply boiling the macaroni and vermicelli in water, 
put on cold, then putting them into the tureen and pouring the 
hot stock over. 



KIDNEY SOUP — MOOK TURTLE SOUP. 11 

Kidney Soup. — Quantities and materials are to be used 
as follows : — 

Two ox kidneys, two quarts of second stock, two table- 
spoonfuls of Harve/s sauce, two table-spoonfuls mushroom 
catchup, one ounce of flour of rice, two ounces of butter, one 
grain of cayenne pepper and a little of black pepper and 
table-salt. 

In preparing this soup, the kidneys have first to be well 
washed in cold water, then after being thoroughly dried in 
a towel, they must be cut into thin slices. The butter is 
next to be put into a dry sauce-pan and heated until smoke 
begins to arise therefrom, the pieces of kidney added and 
browned therein ; the flour of rice must then be put into a 
basin and be made smooth with a little of the stock, when 
the Harvey sauce is to be added, also the pepper, salt, 
cayenne, and catchup ; after which the rest of the stock is 
thrown into the basin, stirred until well mixed, and then 
the whole mixture poured over the kidney as prepared and 
placed in the sauce-pan. 

Now, putting the sauce-pan over the fire, stir the contents 
until boiling to prevent the flour lumping, and skim care- 
fully meantime. After this boiling-point is reached the 
sauce-pan must be drawn aside from the fire, tightly covered 
and allowed to simmer for two hours, when it is done. 

NOTX. — In browning meats of any kind the stock should be 
poured over them cold, that the brown which has been obtained 
may not be washed away in the process. 

Kidneys especially should be cooked over a slow fire to prevent 
them hardening. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — ^The ingredients for this soup must 
be provided in the following quantities :— 

One calf's head, ^ve ounces of flour, five ounces of butter, 
one ounce of mixed spice, two Bermuda onions, two wine- 
glassfuls of sherry, five quarts of cold water, one lemon, one 
table-spoonful of mushroom catchup, one half table-spoonful 
of salt, and one tea-spoonful of pepper. 

The method of preparation is : first soak the calf s head in 



12 SOUPS. 

cold water for an hour, for the purpose of cleansing it of 
blood or such other remaining impurities as there may be; 
then after drying the same in a clean towel, put it into a 
large sauce-pan and pour thereon the five quarts of cold 
water. The sauce-pan is then placed over a quick fire, and 
being carefully cleared of scum as it boils, which it should do 
speedily, the onions, mixed spices, pepper, and salt must be 
thrown in at once. Having reached the boiling-point and 
the flavouring materials having been added, the whole should 
now be permitted to boil slowly until the meat will readily 
separate from the bones — a period of from two to five hours, 
to be determined by the age of the calf — when the tongue is 
to be removed and skinned, also the meat taken from the 
cheeks, and both cut into small pieces to be presently used. 

The bones and head remaining in the sauce-pan must now 
be permitted to boil four hours, at the end of which the 
Uquor should be drawn off and strained, and the small pieces 
of meat remaining in the sauce-pan must be collected, cut 
finely, seasoned with pepper and salt, to which add a little 
flour, and then combined with the two fresh eggs to give 
consistency to the mixture, rolled into small balls, and placed 
in the oven for five minutes in order that they may keep 
shape by being hardened. 

Now taking a clean sauce-pan, let the butter be melted and 
the remainder of the flour stirred into it, when the liquor 
should be added and the whole stirred until it boils. 

The pieces of meat from the cheek and tongue previously 
prepared must now be thrown in, and all allowed to boil for 
ten minutes. The lemon, thinly sliced, is to be placed in 
the tureen, together with the sherry and the balls and the 
catchup, over which the soup is to be poured, when it is ready 
for serving. 

Note. — If the soup is not sufficiently dark in colour, a little cara- 
mel may be added, the instructions for the preparation of which 
are given on page 212. 

Brown Soup. — ^Materials and quantities : — 

Three pounds of shin of beef, two and one half quarts of 



GIBLET SOUP. 13 

cold water, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour of rice, 
one dessert-spoonful of mushroom catchup, one dessert-spoon- 
ful of Harvey's sauce, one tea-spoonful of whole black pepper, 
one tea-spoonful of whole white pepper, one dozen cloves, one 
half table-spoonful of salt, six drops of caramel, one carrot, 
one turnip, one half head of celery, and one onion. 

In preparing this soup, the first thing to be done is the 
cutting of the meat from the bone, and the removing of the 
marrow. Then the marrow and the butter must be heated 
together in a large sauce-pan, and when the smoke arises 
from them, the meat and bone must be put into the same 
and browned, and the vegetables cut into very small pieces 
and browned also. To this add the water in its given quan- 
tity, and allow the whole to come quickly to the boiling- 
point, skimming carefully meantime. The salt, pepper, and 
cloves should now be thrown in, and the whole allowed to 
boil slowly for four hours, when the liquor should be strained 
and returned to the sauce-pan. 

The flour of rice should now be put into a bowl and made 
smooth with the Harvey sauce arid catchup, then added to 
the strained liquor in the sauce-pan, and boiled together with 
it for ten minutes to prevent the flour of rice tasting raw. 
Just before serving add the caramel, which does not require 
to be cooked, but is used for the purpose of giving the soup 
the proper colour. 

Giblet Sonp. — ^The quantities and ingredients required 
are: — 

Two sets of giblets, three quarts of stock, two ounces of 
butter, one gill of sherry, two ounces of flour, one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, one sprig of parsley, two bay leaves, 
one sprig of thyme, one grain of cayenne pepper, one half a 
salt-spoonful of salt, and an equal quantity of pepper. 

The manner of making the soup is as follows : — 

The giblets must be scalded and picked entirely clean of 
skin, and then cut into small pieces equal in size. When 
this is done, next melt the butter and brown the giblets to 
a pale brown in it. Then add to them the sherry and one 



14 SOUPS. 

gill of the stock, after which let it cook slowly until the 
liquor is reduced to one-haJf the quantity, when the remain- 
der of the stock must be added, also the parsley, thyme, and 
bay leaves, and let all cook slowly together until the giblets 
are tender, the time of which depends upon whether the 
giblets are of chicken or f owL 

When the giblets are tender they should be removed and 
the liquor strained, which is to be thickened with a little 
flour, the flour first being made smooth with a little cold 
water, and then the whole is to be boiled one hour ; after 
which the giblets must be returned to the liquor, the lemon 
juice, cayenne pepper, and salt also added, and all permitted 
to boil for five minutes. When it is done it should be dished 
very hot. 

Hotch-potch. — The necessaries and measures for this 
soup are : — 

A neck of mutton, six lamb chops, two quarts of cold 
water, six young carrots, four young turnips, one head of 
lettuce, one table-spoonful of parsley, one pint of green pease, 
one young cauliflower, one half table-spoonful of salt, one 
small tea-spoonful of pepper. 

The neck of mutton must first be washed thoroughly in 
cold water. It then should be put into the sauce-pan and 
covered with two quarts of cold water, and placed over the 
fire : when the water boils, skim it, and add the salt, allowing 
it to boil for two hours thereafter. At the end of this time 
it must be strained, the lamb chops first cut in two and then 
added, the turnips quartered and added, and five of the car- 
rots cut into thin slices and also added, and all allowed to 
boil together for three-quarters of an hour. After this put 
in the lettuce and the parsley, which have been chopped fine 
meantime ; the pease and the cauliflower, the flower of which 
only is used ; the pepper and the remaining carrot, which 
must be grated ; and let all boil slowly for twenty minutes. 

NoTB. — ^The heart of a young cabbage may be added to this soup 
by persons relishing the flavour of this v^etable. 



HARE SOUP. 15 

Haxe Sonp. — ^One hare, two pounds shin of beef, four 
quarts cold water, one onion, one head of celery, one tea- 
spoonful whole white pepper, one tea-spoonful whole black 
pepper, one table-spoonful salt, two ounces flour of rice, one 
table-spoonful mushroom catchup, one table-spoonful Worce- 
ster sauce. 

When the hare has been skinned, take the greatest care, 
in removing the entrails, to lose none of the blood. 

Pour the blood into a large soup-pan, and add to it the 
water ; also the beef (cut in small pieces), and bone, from 
which the marrow has been removed. 

Wipe the hare well with a damp towel, to remove from it 
the hairs which may adhere to it. 

Cut the hare into convenient pieces ; put the pieces in the 
pan, and stir all over a slow fire till boiling. 

When this liquor boils, add the onion, celery, salt, and 
pepper-corns ; cover the pan closely, and allow all to simmer 
very slowly for two hours. 

Remove then the back parts and legs of the hare, and 
continue to boil slowly the remainder for an hour and a half 
longer. 

Cut all the meat from the back and legs into small square 
pieces, and put them on one side. 

When the soup has boiled for three hours and a half, pour 
it through a hair sieve into a large bowl ; rinse the pan with 
cold water, and return to it the strained liquor. 

Mix now very smoothly in a bowl the rice-flour with the 
catchup and Worcester sauce. When well blended, add all 
to the soup, also the pieces of meat which were removed 
from the back and legs of the hare. 

Ketum the pan to the fire, and stir all till boiling. Simmer 
ten minutes, and the soup is ready for serving. 

Note. — A potato and carrot may be added with the celery, if 
desired. If the liquor is not constantly stirred when first put on 
the fire, the blood is sure to curdle, and the soup is never so nioe. 



16 SOUPS. 



SOUPS.-SBOOND DIVISION. 

WMte Stock. — For this stock there will be required : — 
One fowl, two pounds of veal, four quarts of cold water, 
one Bermuda onion, two leeks, one head of celery, two 
cloves, one half table-spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of 
whole white pepper. 

To prepare this stock, the veal and the fowl must first be 
put into a large sauce-pan and covered with the water, when 
it should be brought quickly to the boiling point, that the 
scum may arise at once and be removed. When this is 
done, the salt must be thrown in, after which it must be 
skimmed again, and the vegetables thrown in, the cloves 
and pepper also, and then the whole left to simmer slowly 
three hours. At the end of this time it should be strained 
through a clean towel and allowed to cooL 

Note. — The directions for clearing this stock are to be found 
under the heading " Clear Soup," on page 10, beginning " Put the 
whites and shells of two eggs," etc. 

Tapioca Cream Soup.— For this soup provide: — One 
quart of white stock, two ounces of crushed tapioca, the 
yolks of four eggs, four table-spoonfuls of sweet cream, one 
half a salt-spoonful of salt, and an equal quantity of pepper. 

The stock must first be brought to the boiling-point, and 
as it boils, the tapioca should be sprinkled in carefully to 
prevent its lumping, and when this is done, both allowed to 
simmer for twenty minutes. While the stock and tapioca 
are boiling, the egg-yolks, the cream, pepper, and salt should 
be put into a bowl and smoothly beaten together. Then let 
the boiling liquid cool a little, — two minutes will be suffi- 
cient, — after which put two table-spoonfuls of it to the mix- 
ture in the bowl, stir it together and pour the whole into 
the sauce-pan ; put all over the fire for two minutes, stirring ' 
meantime to prevent boiling, when the eggs will have cooked 
without curdling, and it is ready for serving, which should 
be done very hot. 



TURKISH SOUP — SOUP A-LA-BEINE. 17 

Turkish Soup.— Furnish for this :— 

One quart of white stock, one half tea-cnpful of whole 
rice, the yolks of two eggs, one table-spoonful of cream, one 
half salt-spoonful of salt, and an equal amount of pepper. 

In preparing this soup, boil first the rice in the stock for 
twenty minutes. At the end of this time pass the whole 
through a wire sieve, rubbing such of the rice as may stick 
through with a wooden spoon ; then stir it thoroughly to 
beat out such lumps as the rice may have formed, and 
return all to the sauce-pan. The yolks of eggs, cream, pepper, 
and salt must now be well beaten together and added to the 
stock and rice, and the whole stirred over the fire for two 
minutes, care being taken to prevent boiling after the eggs 
are put in, for reasons already given. 

This soup should also be served very hot. 

Soup Sl-la-Beine. — For this there will be required : — 
One young fowl, one Bermuda onion, one and one-half 
quarts of cold water, one sprig of parsley, one bay leaf, one 
sprig of thyme, three gills of cream, one half a dessert- 
spoonful of salt, and one half tea-spoonful of white pepper, 
one half-dozen celery tops. 

Begin the preparation of this soup by putting the fowl 
into a large sauce-pan and covering it with the given quantity 
of water. When this boils and has been skimmed, add the 
vegetables and the herbs, also the pepper and salt, and 
allow the whole to boil slowly for one hour. After boiling 
this length of time, the fowl must be taken out, the white 
meat cut from the breast, and put aside to be used later. 
This being done, return the fowl to the sauce-pan, and let it 
boil for two hours longer, then draw off the liquor and strain 
it through a sieve. Take now the white meat and chop it 
very fine, or pound it in a mortar, as may be most convenient, 
mix well with it the cream, pour the compound into the 
strained liquor, put the whole into a clean sauce-pan, and 
allow it just to come to the boiling, when it is ready for use. 

Note. — ^By celery tops, the small tender leaves at the top of the 
stalk are meant, which are delicious as a flavouring a^ent, ~ 

3 



18 SOUPS. 

Babbit Sonp. — Materials and quantities must be pro- 
yided as follows : — 

Two rabbits, three ounces of butter, two quarts of boiling 
water, one and one-half ounces of flour of rice, one grain of 
grated nutmeg, three Bermuda onions, one tea-spoonful of 
salt, one quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper. 

Preparatory to the making of this soup, the rabbits should 
be soaked for an hour in strong salt and water, for the pur- 
pose of draining out the blood and also taking from them 
the strong, wild, gamey flavour peculiar to them ; then cut 
them into pieces convenient for the sauce-pan, and wash 
them well in boiling water to whiten the meat. 

Now put them, so prepared, into the sauce-pan, and pour 
the two quarts of boiling water over them, adding the 
onions, pepper, and salt, and allow all to boil until the meat 
of the game will separate readily from the bone. 

In a separate sauce-pan then melt the butter, stir into it 
the flour of rice, and strain the liquor from the rabbits into 
it. Add to this the nutmeg, and cook slowly for fifteen 
minutes, when it is ready for serving. 

Note. — In departing from the usual mode of usin^ either cold 
water or cold stock, as above, it is to be noted that the boiling 
water is here used to keep the meat from darkening, which it has a 
tendency to do. 

If it should be desiredi the small, nice pieces of meat may be 
added to this soup. 

Mullagatawny Soup. — Materials and quantities: — One 
fowl, two quarts of cold water, two onions, two ounces of 
butter, two ounces of flour, one table-spoonful of curry- 
powder, one tea-spoonful of sugar, one half tea-cupful of 
whole rice, one dessert-spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of 
whole white pepper. 

Begin this preparation by first covering the fowl with the 
two quarts of water, and bring it to boiling over a quick 
fire. When it boils up and has been skimmed, add the 
pepper-corns, salt, and onions, then boil slowly until the 
meat of the fowl becomes tender. Now, removing the fowl 



OX-TAIL 80UP. 19 

from the sauce-pan, cat the meat from the breast and legs, 
making the same into small pieces to thicken the soup with 
later, and return the bones and remaining fowl to the stock, 
when all must be allowed to boil for one hour longer, and 
then strained. The butter has then to be melted in a fresh 
sauce-pan, and the flour, curry-powder, and sugar added, 
with which put the strained stock and whole rice, and boil 
the whole for twenty minutes. 

Just before serving, add the small pieces of chicken cut 
from the breast and legs, and send to table very hot. 

Oz-tail Soup. — Ingredients to be used in the following 
proportions : — ^Two ox-tails, two quarts of second stock, ten 
cloves, one tea-spoonful of pepper-corns, one dessert-spoonful 
of salt, one large carrot, one turnip. 

First cut the ox-tails into pieces about two inches in 
length, wash them well in cold water, put them together 
with the stock into a sauce-pan, and bring quickly to the 
boiling-point. When boiling, skim well and add the salt, 
also the pepper-corns and cloves secured in a piece of muslin 
or bag, after which allow it to boil slowly for two hours. 
Then the carrot and turnip should be cut into dice, or with 
a French cutter into balls, and added to the soup, boiled 
therein half an hour, when, removing the cloves and pepper- 
corns, the soup is ready for use. 



PUR^BS.-FIRST DIVISION. 

Portfe ll-la-Oond^. — For this will be required : — One pint 
of haricot beans, three pints of white stock, one carrot, one 
small turnip, one Bermuda onion, a bouquet gam^, two 
ounces of butter, one half pint of cream, two table-spoon- 
fuls of tomato sauce. 

The beans must have been soaked over-night in cold 
water, and when ready to begin the preparation of the 
purde, the water must be drained off, and the soaked beans 
put on to boil in the st.ock. 



20 PUREES. 

When the stock boils, the vegetables, the bouquet gamde, 
and the butter must be added, and these together allowed 
to boil for two hours, when it should be taken from the fire 
and passed twice through a fine sieve. The cream and the 
tomato sauce should now be put in, also the pepper and salt, 
of which one half salt-spoonful of each is sufficient, and the 
whole be brought to the boiling-point, great care being 
taken to take it from the fire the instant this point is 
reached, ot the cream will curdle and the dish be spoiled. 

Note. — To prepare a "bouquet gam^e," tie a morsel of celery 
and a sprig of thjone into a bay leaf. 

The small dry white bean, such as is commonly used for baking, 
may be used in making this pur^. 

Por^e of Green Pease.— Take for this :— 

One quart of shelled pease, one and one-half pints of 
white stock, one Bermuda onion, two ounces of butter, three 
table-spoonfuls of cream, one tea-spoonful of sugar, one half 
salt-spoonful of salt, and an equal amount of pepper. 

Put first the pease, the onion, and the stock into a sauce- 
pan, and boil them together twenty or thirty minutes ; after 
which pass the whole through a sieve, in order that the 
stock may become smoothly thickened with the pease and 
the skins removed. Add then to this mixture the cream, 
the butter, and the sugar, and let all be brought to the 
point of boiling, keeping in mind that the cream has been 
added and will curdle if permitted to remain upon the fire 
an instant too long. 

Season now with the pepper and salt, and serve very hot. 

Note. — ^The pease for this pur^e should be very young, in order 
that the colour of the dish may be a pretty bright green. 

Tomato Pnrtfe. — For this provide : — 

One quart of canned tomatoes, one and one-half pints of 
white stock, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one 
tea-spoonful of sugar, one gill of cream, one half salt-spoon- 
ful of salt, and as much pepper. 

In preparing this pur^e, begin with boiling the tomatoes 



ASPARAGUS PUREE. 21 

and the stock together for three quarters of an hour. Pass 
both then through a fine sieve, and while straining, melt in 
the sauce-pan the butter, into which stir the flour, and re- 
turning the strained liquor then to the sauce-pan, stir all to- 
gether until it boils. 

Now add the sugar, the pepper, and the salt, and pour 
the pur^ into the tureen ; after which add the cream, which, 
if otherwise done, will be almost certain to curdle with the 
sour of the tomatoes. 



PURBBS.-SBOOND DIVISION. 

Asparagus Puree. — ^For this there will be required : — 
One bundle of asparagus, five ounces of butter, one and 
one half ounces of flour, three pints of white stock, one half 
pint of cream, one half salt-spoonful of salt, and the same 
quantity of pepper. 

The asparagus has first to be treated by breaking off the 
tender tips and putting them aside, then blanch the remain- 
ing pieces in boiling water, drain them thoroughly, and 
place them in a sauce- pan with two ounces of butter and flour. 
Stir all together for five minutes, taking great care to prevent 
browning, then add the stock, and let all boil slowly, until 
the asparagus is tender. When this is accomplished pass 
the whole through a fine sieve, and returning it to the 
sauce-pan allow it to simmer for twenty minutes, after which 
add the remaining three ounces of butter. Boil the cream 
in a separate sauce-pan, and add just before serving. Have 
ready in a tureen the asparagus tips, having previously 
boiled them in salt and water, and pour over the pur^e as 
soon as the cream has been added. 

Tnmip Pnr^. — Materials to be used in the following 
quantities : — 

One and one half pounds of turnip, one ounce of flour, 
three pints of white stock, three ounces of rice, three 
ounces of butter, one half pint of double cream, one half 



22 PUREES. 

salt-spoonful of salt, and an equal quantity of pepper and 
sugar. 

Blanch the turnips with plenty of boiling water to keep 
them white, then soak them in cold water for one hour. 
Melt in a sauce-pan two ounces of butter, stir into this the 
flour and two pints of the white stock. Stir the coinpound 
now until it boils, and then put in the turnips, pepper, salt, 
and sugar, having well drained and dried the turnips after 
taking them from the water. This must simmer until the 
turnips are tender, when it should be passed through a sieve 
and the remainder of the stock added, bringing all again to 
the boiling-point. The rice should now be washed well and 
boiled in two quarts of water for twenty minutes, when the 
water should be well drained from it, and the rice placed 
in the tureen, the pur^e poured over it, adding then the 
cream and the remaining ounce of butter, stirring all until 
the butter melts, when it is ready for immediate serving. 

Note. — The turnips must be weighed after being pared, and 
should be pared thickly, as the outside is always bitter. 

Potato Puree. — For this should be furnished : one pound 
of potatoes, one Bermuda onion, two leaves of celery, one 
and one half pints of whole stock, one gill of single cream, 
one ounce of butter, one half salt-spoonful of salt, and the 
same amount of pepper. 

So provided, put into the sauce-pan the potatoes, pared 
and sliced, the celery, onion, and butter, stirring all over 
the fire for five minutes, taking care that they do not dis- 
colour. Add now one pint of stock, and let it boil slowly 
until the potatoes are cooked, then pass all through a 
sieve, using the remaining one half pint of stock hot, to pre- 
vent the gluten of the potatoes from stiffening and clogging 
in the sieve. The sauce-pan should then be well washed and 
the pur^e returned to it, the cream, pepper, and salt added, 
and stirred until it boils. 

This should be served with fried bread or asparagus tips, 
arranging either in the tureen as before directed, and pour- 
"Kg the pur^ over. 



OYSTER SOUP k-LA-BEINE. 23 

NoTB. — ^By smgle cream, that is meant which arises in twelve 
hours. Double cream arises in twenty-four hours, and cream for 
butter in forty-eight hours. 

General Notes on Purees.— These pur^ are intended to 
suffice for serving four persons; and the apparent inequality of 
liquids used will be found to correspond with the different lengths 
of time for boiling, which is, of course, the reducing process. 

If it should happen that the pur^ is thickened unduly by boiling 
too quickly, this fault may be remedied by adding more of the 
stock while it is being passed through the sieve. 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELLFISH. 

FIRST DIVISION. 

Oyster Soup k-la-Beine.— One quart of oysters, one pint 
of white stock, one half pint of cream, one and one half 
ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one blade of mace, one 
grain of cayenne, one tea-spoonful of salt, and half as much 
pepper. 

Drain first the liquor from the oysters, and putting the 
liquor over the fire, bring it to the boiling-point. 

In a separate sauce-pan melt the butter, stir into it the 
flour, and pour in the stock. Add also the mace, pepper, 
cayenne, and salt, and let all boil for ten minutes, when the 
oysters should be added. Watch the oysters closely, and 
when the leaves begin to shrivel, pour the soup into the 
tureen, and add thereto the cream, which must have been 
made boiling hot. 

Note. — The great difficulty to be surmounted in making this 
soup, is bringing the cream and liquor together without curdling, 
which is obviated by boiling each separately. 

Fish Chowder. — For this are required one large haddock, 
weighing about two pounds, three Bermuda onions, one 
quarter pound pork, six potatoes, one table-spoonful chopped 
parsley, one dessert-spoonful chopped thyme, one-fourth of a 



24 OYSTEBS AND OTHER SHELLFISH. 

can tomatoes, one dessert-spoonfol of salt, one tea-spoonful of 
pepper, one half wine-glassful of Worcestershire sauce, two 
ounces of butter. 

When the haddock has been cleaned and well washed, 
place it in a sauce-pan, cover it well with cold water, add a 
pinch of salt, place the sauce-pan on the fire, and when the 
water in it boils remove the haddock. Bemove from the 
haddock all skin and bone, throw them into the water 
in the sauce-pan, and allow the water to boil for twenty 
minutes very slowly. 

While the water is boiling, melt in a frying-pan the 
butter, and put into the same when hot the pork and the 
onions, cut into very thin pieces, and fry to a light brown. 

Put this preparation into a sauce-pan with the potatoes 
boiled and mashed, and add the parsley, thyme, and toma- 
toes, Worcestershire sauce, pepper, and salt ; pour over this 
the liquor (which has been boiling on the fish bones and 
skin) through a strainer, and allow all to simmer slowly 
thirty minutes. Just before serving add the pieces of had- 
dock previously separated from the bone and skin. 

Oyster Soup. — Procure one quart of oysters, one pint of 
milk, three ounces of butter, one grain of cayenne, one half 
tea-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper, one ounce 
of flour. 

The oysters must first be strained, and the liquor brought 
to boiling-point, and then thoroughly skimmed. 

Melt then the butter in a separate sauce-pan, add to it the 
flour, then the milk, and stir the mixture until it boil. 
Add now the pepper, salt, cayenne, and oysters, which, if 
large, should be cut into pieces ; pour over this the boiling 
liquor, allowing all to cook for five minutes, when the 
oysters will begin to show their leaves. Serve very hot 



FRIOASStfE OF OYSTER — FRIED OTSTER& 25 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELLFISH. 
SECOND DIVISION. 

Fricassee of Oyster.— Procure for this : 

Twenty-five oysters, two ounces of butter, one ounce of 
flour, yolks of two eggs, one tea-spoonful of lemon juice, one 
grain of cayenne, one grain of grated nutmeg, a piece of salt 
the size of a pea, one half a salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Bring first the oysters in their own liquor to the boiling- 
ix)int, and when this is reached strain them, and put the 
oysters, for the time, aside. Melt now, in a separate sauce- 
pan, the butter, and add thereto the flour, together with one 
tea-cupful of the strained liquor. Cook this for about two 
minutes, to give the mixture consistency, and then taking 
the sauce-pan from the fire, drop in the yolks of the eggs, 
one by one, stirring quickly imtil all is well mixed together. 
Add then the lemon- juice, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cayenne, 
when the whole should be placed again over the fire, stirred 
briskly to prevent boiling, and allowed to become very hot. 
Just before serving drop in the oysters, and serve on 
buttered toast. 

Fried Osrsters. — Provide for this : 

Twenty-five large oysters, two table-spoonfuls of flour, four 
table-spoonfuls of milk, four table-spoonfuls of cracker-dust, 
two eggs, four heaped table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one 
salt-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper, one salt- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Put the oysters into a strainer and drain them thoroughly 
of their liquor. Then upon a plate mix together the flour, 
milk, pepper, and salt; into which preparation dip the 
oysters one by one, using a fork, and taking care not to 
mutilate the oyster. Place now upon a sheet of kitchen- 
paper the cracker-dust, and putting the oysters therein, lift 
the sheet of paper by its opposite sides, and roll them in the 
dust from side to side. The oysters should now be removed 
to a plate and left standing for half-an-hour, in order that 



26 OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELLFISH. 

the juices may drain out and harden the cracker-dust encas- 
ing them. Heat meantime in a stew-pan one pound of clari- 
fied fat, and when the blue smoke arises therefrom, throw 
in a peeled potato to keep it from burning. Upon a plate 
beat now the two eggs, dip the oysters one by one into 
them, then roll them in the bread crumbs, which have been 
made ready upon the kitchen-paper, and with which has 
been put the nutmeg, and drop them lightly into the hot 
clarified fat, letting them remain therein for three minutes. 
Before serving, put them for a moment upon a clean sheet 
of kitchen-paper, that it may absorb the extraneous fat. 

Nons. — It is important to avoid touching the oysters with the 
heated hands, as it makes them both tough and heavy. 

Clarified fat and lard boil at about 500 degrees, which is more 
than double the heat of boiling water. At 375 degrees the blue 
smoke arises from these heated substances, which is the cooking- 
point, and boiling fat or lard will bum to a cinder instantly any- 
thing that is put into it. 

The peeled potato prevents burning, as it furnishes an object for 
the fat to act upon, and so keeps it from growing hotter : a piece of 
hard bread will answer the same purpose. 

A large quantity of fat is used in this recipe, but its extravagance 
is tempered by the fact that the same fat may be used over and 
over again until the heating property is exhausted. 

The reason for allowing the oysters to stand for thirty minutes, 
after being rolled in the cracker-dust, is, that unless so permitted 
to harden, the egg with which the oyster is subsequently treated 
would not adhere, but merely draw the cracker-dust off, making it 
thus necessary to pack these substances on with the hands, and a 
lieavy, soggy dish would be the consequence. 

Fried oysters must be quickly cooked and as quickly served. 

Recipe for clarifying fat on page 212. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Provide for this one quart of oysters, 
six ounces of bread crumbs, three ounces of butter, one grain 
cayenne, one salt-spoonful grated nutmeg, one salt-spoonful 
mace, one wine-glassful sherry. 

Bring the oysters to boiling-point, and drain from them 
their liquor. Melt in a small pan one ounce of the butter. 
When melted, skim carefully, and draw the pan on one side. 



OYSTERS A-LA-OREME — BROILED OYSTERS. 27 

Mix well with the bread crombs the mace, nutmeg, and 
cayenne. Put in a deep dish alternate layers of the oysters 
and seasoned bread crumbs, and over each layer of oysters dis- 
tribute small pieces of the unmelted butter. When the last 
layer of bread crumbs is sprinkled over the top, pour over 
the strained liquor, the sherry, and also the melted butter. 
Place the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for two hours. 

Oysters Vla-Cr jme. — Materials and quantities as fol- 
lows : Twenty-five large oysters, one dessert -spoonful of 
chopped parsley, one heaped table-spoonful of bread crumbs, 
three and one half ounces of ^butter, one and one half ounce 
of flour, a piece of onion half the size of a nutmeg, one gill 
of cream, one half salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, one half 
salt-spoonful of pepper, a piece of salt the size of a pea. 

The oysters should first be boiled in their own liquor for 
five minutes, after which strained, cut into rough pieces, 
and put upon a plate. Season them then with the pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg. Melt the butter now in a fresh sauce-pan, 
adding thereto the flour and the cream, and boil all together 
for two minutes. Take then the sauce-pan from the fire, put 
into it the oysters and the parsley and onion, chopped finely, 
as well. This mixture must now be put nicely into large, 
deep oyster-shells, the bread crumbs sprinkled over each, and 
put into a quick oven until browned over the top. 

Note. — As the oysters used do not always furnish the proper 
shells for this preparation, it is well to select from time to time the 
shells from oysters used in other ways, and scrubbing them well, 
make a reserve of deep shells for this purpose. 

Broiled Osrsters. — There will be required for this twenty- 
five large oysters, two table-spoonfuls of flour, four table- 
spoonfuls of milk, four table-spoonfuls of cracker-dust, two 
eggs, four heaped table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, two 
ounces of butter, and the juice of half a lemon, one half a 
salt-spoonful of salt, and an equal amount of pepper. 

Drain thoroughly the liquor from the oysters, mix upon a 
plate the flour, milk, pepper, and salt 



28 OTSTEB8 AND OTHER SHELLFISH. 

Dip the oyBters into this mixture, one by one, and, put- 
ting the cracker-dust upon a sheet of kitchen-paper, drop 
the oysters into the dust separately, and roll them from side 
to side by lifting the paper alternately at opposite comers. 
Betum then to the plate, using a fork in the lifting, and let 
them stand for thirty minutes, that the dust may harden 
with the juice. Beat the eggs now until very light, and dip 
the oysters one by one therein, then into the bread crumbs ; 
and having lightly greased the broiler, put them into it, 
and broil for five minutes. 

In serving, put the butter upon them in small lumps, and 
squeeze over tiiem the lemon juice. 

Note. — Before beginnixig the preparing of oysters in this manner, 
it would be well to read the notes on fried oysters, page 25. 

Oyster Croquettes. — Materials to be used in the follow- 
ing proportions : Twenty-five large oysters, one dessert- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, three and one half ounces of 
butter, one and one half ounce of flour, one gill of cream, 
one tea-spoonful of lemon juice, one egg, three heaped 
table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one half salt-spoonful of 
pepper, and a piece of salt the size of a pea. 

Hie oysters should be boiled in their own liquor for five 
minutes, then strained, cut into rough pieces, and seasoned 
with the pepper and salt. The butter must then be melted 
in a fresh sauce-pan, the flour added, also the cream, and all 
cooked for two minutes. Bemove the sauce-pan now from 
the fire, and put in the oysters, parsley, and lemon juice ; 
after which mix all well together and turn out upon a plate, 
leaving it to cool for one hour. 

When cool, form the mixture into small balls ; beat the 
egg very light, and roll them in it ; after which put the 
bread crumbs upon a sheet of kitchen-paper, roU each ball 
therein from side to side separately, and fry in hot clarified 
fat or lard for two minutes. 

Put them as taken from the fat upon a piece of the 
kitchen-paper for a moment, to drain the grease off, and 
serve on a heated napkin garnished with sprigs of parsley. 



GRAB PIE — LOBSTER CUTLETS. 29 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELLFISH.- 

SPECLAli DISHES. 

Crab Pie or Deviled Crabs. — Provide two crabs, three 
ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one gill of milk, one gill 
of cream, one tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, one table-spoon- 
ful of bread crumbs, one salt-spoonful of pepper, one half 
salt-spoonful of salt. 

First throw the crabs into boiling water, and boil them 
for quarter of an hour. Pick the meat then from the shell, 
taking care not to break the sheUs, as they are to be used as 
natural bake-pans for the pie. Cut the meat into irregular 
pieces, and put them in readiness for use ; then, taking a 
fresh sauce-pan, melt two ounces of the butter, to which add 
the flour, milk, and cream, and boil all for two minutes. 

The sauce-pan must now be taken from the fire, and the 
anchovy sauce, pepper and salt, and meat from the crab 
added. When this is mixed thoroughly together, arrange it 
smoothly in the shells, sprinkle thickly with the bread 
crumbs, putting the remaining butter in small pieces on the 
top of each, and brown in a quick oven. 

Lobster Cutlets. — Place in readiness one lobster, one 
and one half ounce of butter, one oimce of flour, one gill of 
cold water, one table-spoonful of cream, one half tea-spoonful 
of lemon-juice, one grain of cayenne, one salt-spoonful of 
salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper, one egg, three table-spoon- 
fuls of bread crumbs. 

The lobster should be put into boiling water for twenty 
minutes ; after which the head must be twisted off, and the 
coral that runs down the back removed. Beat this coral 
with half an ounce of butter together in a mortar ; and to 
make it perfectly smooth rub it through a wire sieve. Now 
melt in a sauce-pan the remainder of the butter, add thereto 
the flour and cold water, stir all until the water boil, and 
then allow it to boil two minutes. 

Take it now from the Are, and add the coral, cream, pepper 



30 OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELLFISH. 

and salt, lemon-juice and cayenne. When this is done, cut 
the lobster into small convenient pieces, and mix them well 
with the contents of the sauce-pan. Turn all now out upon 
a plate, and set to cool for one hour. When cool, divide 
into five pieces, and form into cutlets similar in shape to cut- 
lets of lamb. Dip them lightly into the egg, which must 
have been well beaten; roll them in the bread crumbs, 
which must have been placed upon kitchen-paper for the 
purpose, from side to side ; and fry for two minutes in hot 
clarified fat or lard. When done, put them to drain for a 
moment upon a clean piece of kitchen-paper, and serve on a 
hot napkin garnished with the claws of the lobster. 

Note. — The female lobster should be selected for this dish, as it 
alone furnishes the coral which gives both a delicious flavour and 
beautiful colour to the composition. 

Carried Lobster. — One large lobster, one half pint second 
stock, one dessert-spoonful curry powder, one small onion, 
one salt-spoonful salt, one salt-spoonful pepper, one tea-spoon- 
ful lemon- juice, one dessert-spoonful cream or milk, one half 
ounce butter. 

Remove all the meat from the lobster, cut it in small 
pieces, melt in a small sauce-pan the butter, and throw in 
the onion, which must first be soaked over night in boiling 
water, dried in a towel, and chopped very finely. When 
the onion takes a pale brown colour, stir in the curry powder 
and pepper and salt. Smooth out all the lumps in the pow- 
der, and add by degrees (stirring well meanwhile) the stock. 
When this boils, throw in the pieces of lobster, and cook all 
very slowly for half an hour or three-quarters. When ready 
to serve, draw the pan from the fire, and stir in the cream 
or milk and lemon-juice, and do not again allow it to boil. 

Serve the curry on a very hot dish, and send to table with 
quarter of a pound boiled rice in a separate hot dish. 
Directions for boiling the rice will be found on page 78. 

Note. — A little more than half of a poimd tin of tinned lobster 
may be used instead of the fresh lobster. 



FILET DE BOLE — BOILED COD-FISH. 31 



PISH.-FIRST DIVISION. 

Filet de Sole, k la Maitre d'HoteL— Take for this two 
large soles, two ounces of butter, one half ounce of flour, four 
table-spoonfuls of cream, one half tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, 
one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, one half salt-spoon- 
ful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Begin this by reversing the usual rule for cleaning fish ; 
skin the sole first, and then fillet it. To do this the skin must 
be loosened at the tail, the fish being held firmly to the table 
with a dry towel, and with the disengaged hand the skin 
quickly torn off. This process must be repeated, as the sole 
has two distinct sides to be relieved of skin. Make then an 
incision straight down the back with a sharp knife, and 
pressing the knife as closely as possible to the backbone, 
separate the flesh from it, removing the four fillets. KoU 
each fillet separately, in the fashion of a rolled jelly-cake ; 
place them side by side in a slightly greased tin ; squeeze 
over each a little of the lemon-juice, to preserve their colour ; 
cover them with a piece of greased kitchen-paper ; and bake 
in a brisk oven ten minutes. While the fillets are baking, 
cover the heads and skins of the fish with cold water, and 
boil for five minutes. Then melt in a small sauce-pan the 
butter, add to it the flour, and one gill of the liquor obtained 
by boiling the heads and skins; boil all for two minutes, 
stirring meantime, when it must be taken from the fire, and 
the cream, pepper, and salt added. 

Put the fillets now into a flat dish, pour this sauce around 
them, and sprinkle over each fillet a little of the chopped 
parsley ; and serve. 

NoTB. — Large flounder may also be prepared after this recii>e 
with the same result. 

Boiled Cod-fiflh. — Provide four pounds of cod, middle cut, 
one large table-spoonful of vinegar, one half table-spoonful 
of salt. 

The cod-fish should be purchased the day before it is 



32 FISH. 

desired to serve, and permitted to lie over night in salt. 
When ready to boil, fill the fish-kettle two-thirds full of 
boiling water, add to this the vinegar and salt, place the fish 
into the drainer, and plunge it into the boiling water, where 
it must remain for thirty minutes, boiling rapidly. 

Serve upon a dry napkin, ganushed with parsley, and with 
it oysters or egg sauce.* 

Notes. — If the cod should be of more than ordinary thickness, 
it must boil a few minutes longer, that it may become done 
through. 

This recipe may be used in boiling all laige fish except salmon. 
Salmon must be treated with this difference : it should be put to 
boil in tqaid instead of boiling water, and thoroughly skimmed as it 
boils up. 

For boiling small and fresh-water fish, use cold water; and the 
instant the boiling-point is reached, remove the fish. In this way 
small fish may be prevented breaking in the kettle. 

If not provided with a fish-kettle which has the plunging 
drainer, it is better to wrap the large fish in a single layer of coarse 
towelling. 

Sole au Gratin. — ^This requires one small sole, two heaped 
table - spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one table -spoonful of 
chopped parsley, two small mushrooms, one ounce of butter, 
a piece of chaldt the size of a bean, two table-spoonfuls of 
second stock, one salt-spoonful oi salt, one salt-spoonful of 
pepper. 

First the bread crumbs must be put into a dry tin, and 
browned to a pale brown in the oven. Sprinkle half of 
them, when prepared, upon a small baking-tin, also having 
chopped one of the mushrooms, and half of the chaldt finely ; 
scatter this with half of the parsley over the bread crumbs. 

Skin now the sole,t and cut away the head, fins, and tail. 
Place the fish over the preparation in the baking-tin ; 
sprinkle over it the remaining bread crumbs, chopped mush- 
room, chaldt, and parsley, also the pepper and salt ; put 
over all the butter, in small pieces, and bake in a quick oven 

* See Sauces, page 155. t See directions for skinning sole, page 31. 



BROILED MACKEREL — STUFFED HADDOCK. 33 

ten minutes. Serve on a hot dish, with the stock heated 
and poured around. 

NoTK. — If the chaldt or small French onion is not to be pro- 
cured, a bit of the common onion may be substituted. 

Broiled MackereL — Prepare one mackerel, two ounces 
butter, one half salt-spoonful of pepper, one half tea-spoon- 
ful of salt. 

Split the mackerel, when cleaned, directly through the 
back-bone with a strong sharp knife. Grease the broiler 
slightly, place the fish between its leaves, and broil over a 
quick, clear fire for ten minutes. When done, remove 
quickly from the broiler, dress with the butter, pepper, and 
salt, and send it to the table as hot as possible. 

The dish may be garnished with lemon quarters, and a 
sprig of parsley at either end. 

NoTK. — All dasses of broiling fish may be treated after this 
recipe. 

Stuffed Haddock. — Provide one large haddock, two 
ounces of beef suet, three table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
one tea-spoonful of chopped thyme, one dessert-spoonful of 
chopped parsley, one egg, one salt-spoonful of salt, one salt- 
spoonful of pepper. 

The haddock must be thoroughly dried after cleaning, 
and the tail and fins cut off, leaving the head. Make a 
stuffing by mixing two table-spoonfuls of the bread crumbs 
with the parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt, into which drop 
the egg, to give the dressing consistency. Pack this stuffing 
snugly into the stomach of the fish, sew the sides together 
with needle and thread, place it in a greased baking-pan, 
damp it over with milk or egg, sprinkle over it the re- 
mainder of the bread crumbs, and bake three quarters of 
an hour in a moderate oven, taking occasion to baste from 
time to time with the drippings. 

NoTX. — To bake evenly, the fish should stand in the pan in the 
position which it naturally takes in the water ; and this may be 

3 



34 FISH. 

aocMmplished by placing a long skewer first through the tail of the 
fish, next through the centre of the body, and lastly through the 
head. A strong cord passed in the same manner through the fish 
and drawn taut will serve the purpose. 
Salmon and trout may be done also after this recipe. 

Fried Smelts. — One dozen smelts, two table-spoonfuls of 
flour, two eggs, four table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one 
tea-spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of pepper. 

Take first the flour and the bread crumbs, and place them 
upon separate sheets of kitchen-paper. Mix with the bread 
crumbs the salt and pepper ; when the fish have been 
thoroughly prepared, dip them one by one into the flour, for 
the purpose of drying them. Beat now the eggs until very 
light, and roll the fish one by one therein ; place them then 
into the bread crumbs, rolling each from side to side until 
well covered. Throw the fish thus prepared into smoking- 
hot clarified fat or lard, and cook for five minutes. Garnish 
with parsley, and serve in a folded napkin. 

Note. — ^All pan fish, including brook trout, may be treated in 
this way. 

White-bait is cooked by simply being thrown into hot lard just 
as taken from the water, and cooked for two minutes. 



FISH.-SB0OND DIVISION. 

Fish li-la-Busse. — Provide for this one half pound of 
flour, one quarter of a pound of butter, one tea-spoonful of 
yeast-powder, three eggs, one half tea-cupful of boiled rice, 
one pound raw fish, one gill of cold water, one half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Put the flour upon a mixing-board, and with it a little 
salt and the yeast-Jxtwder, rubbing all together. Make this 
into a light dough with the cold water and the white of one 
egg whipped to a stiff froth. Knead the dough lightly, and 
roll out as thinly as possible. Spread upon this paste one- 
third of the butter, fold it in three layers, and again roll out 



FISH CAKES. 35 

thinly. Spread upon it the second part of butter, and repeat 
the process of folding and rolling. Now spread on the last 
piece of butter, and refold it in the same manner. 

Boll the crust once again into a square ; place in the centre 
of it the boiled rice, two of the eggs, which must have been 
hard boiled, also the fish ; sprinkle over this the remaining 
salt and the pepper ; wet the edges of the crust with the 
yolk of egg, fold it over squarely, brush the entire surface 
over with the yolk of egg, and place it first in a quick oven 
for ten minutes, when it should be changed to a cooler part 
of the oven, to prevent its browning too quickly, and allowed 
to bake three quarters of an hour. 

Note. — ^The quantity of water given cannot be imperative, for 
the reason that the amount to be used is determined by the amount 
of gluten in the flour, which is never equal in different brands. 

Any kind of fish may be used for this preparation, so long as it 
is of a kind to be boned and skinned ; but fillets of sole, flounder, 
or haddock wUl be found most satisfactory. 

Pish Cakes. — For these will be required one pound of 
cold boiled fish, one pound of raw potatoes, two ounces of 
butter, two eggs, four heaped table-spoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one grain of cayenne, one tea-spoonful of salt, one 
half salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Separate the skin and bone from the flesh with two forks, 
and put the fish, cut into irregular pieces, into a large bowl. 
Boil the potatoes, putting a little salt into the boiling water; 
place a sieve over the bowl containing the fish, put the 
potatoes while hot into the sieve, and rub them through 
over the fish with the back of a wooden spoon. The pepper, 
salt, and cayenne should now be added ; drop in also the 
yolks of the eggs and the butter, mix together thoroughly, 
and form the mixture into round flat cakes. 

Beat then the whites of the eggs sufficiently to break the 
albumen, dip the cakes therein, place the bread crumbs 
upon a sheet of kitchen-paper, and roll the cakes separately 
in it. They must now be thrown into hot clarified fat or 
lard, and cooked for three minutes, when they may be trans- 



36 FISH. 

f erred to a sheet of kitchen-paper, to remove any particles of 
fat that may have clung to the surface. Serve garnished 
with parsley and very hot 

Note. — When fresh fish is not available, salt cod or other fish 
may be substituted, leaving out of coiu^e the salt, and picking the 
salt fish to shreds, and washing through numerous waters, until 
sufficiently freshened. When salt fish is used, it should be care- 
fully dried after freshening, by putting it into a clean towel, and 
wringing until moisture will no longer exude. 

Turbot li-la-Cr^me. — Materials as follows : One pound of 
cold boiled turbot, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, 
one ounce of grated cheese, one half pint of milk, one gill of 
cream, one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, one half salt- 
s{x>onful of pepper, one half tea-spoonful of salt 

Kemove the bone and skin of the fish, and place it upon 
a flat dish, cut into irregular pieces. Melt in a sauce-pan the 
butter, stirring in the dry flour, to which add by degrees 
the milk, stirring constantly, to prevent the flour from 
lumping, until it boils. When boiling, add the cream, and a 
little of the pepper and salt; allow all to cook for two 
minutes, after which pour the mixture over the pieces of 
fish in the flat dish. Sprinkle over this the grated cheese, 
the remainder of the pepper and salt, and the nutmeg; 
place the dish into a moderate oven, and bake for ten 
minutes. 

Note. — Turbot done in this manner must be prepared in the dish 
in which it is to be sent to the table, as it cannot be moved. 

Salmon Pie. — For this will be required two pounds of 
salmon, one-fourth pound of bread crumbs, one table-spoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, two ounces of butter, two eggs, one 
gill of cold water, one tea-spoonful of pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of salt 

First mix well together the chopped parsley, bread 
crumbs, the pepper and the salt, and put a layer of this into 
the bottom of a flat dish. The salmon must then be cut 
into thin slices, and a layer of it put next to the bread 



POTTED HALIBUT KEDGEREE. 37 

cmmbs and parsley. In this way alternate layers must be 
])laced in the dish until all of the material is used ; then 
beat until very light the two eggs, add to them the water, 
and pour this mixture over the dish already arranged. 
Place upon the top of this the butter in small pieces, and 
bake in a moderate oven three quarters of an hour. 

NoTK. — Floimder, haddock, and halibut may also be done in this 
way. 

Potted Halibut. — For this provide two pounds of hali- 
but, one tea-spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of black 
l)epper, one half tea-spoonful of spice for potted meats,* one 
lialf tea-cupful of vinegar, one half tea-cupful of Bass ale, 
one tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, one ounce of butter. 

Lay the fish in layers in a deep dish, putting between 
each layer a little of the spice and pepper and salt ; press 
the contents well down in the dish, then mix well together 
the vinegar, Bass ale, and tarragon vinegar, and pour this 
composition over the halibut. Place the butter in small 
]>ieces over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty 
minutes. 

Kedgeree. — For this will be required one pound of cold 
boiled fish, two ounces of butter, two eggs, one tea-cupful of 
rice, one tea-spoonful of curry powder, one salt-spoonful of 
salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Boil the eggs for ten minutes, and the rice for a quarter 
of an hour. Chop the eggs into irregular pieces, and re- 
moving the skin and bone of the fish, melt the butter in a 
sauce-pan, and add thereto the hard-boiled eggs, the fish, and 
rice. Stir all now together over the fire until it is very hot, 
taking care that the mixture does not burn, it being very 
dry and apt to spoil, since the only moisture in it is the 
butter. 

* The spice for potted meats Is composed of the following ingredients, 
thoroughly mixed : One ounce of ground cloves, one ounce pulverized mace, 
one ounce of Jamaica pepper, one ounce of grated lemon-rind, one-fourth 
onnoe of cayenne, one grated nutmeg. 



38 PISH. 

Add, just before serving, the curry powder, pepper, and 
salt ; and piling it very high in the middle of a hot dish, 
garnish the preparations with a little fresh parsley, and 
serve very hot 

Note. — Instead of garnishing this dish with sprigs of parsley, 
the parsley may be chopped and sprinkled over the top. 

Stewed God Fish. — Have in readiness for this two 
pounds cod fish, three gills white stock, three table-spoonfuls 
bread crumbs, one tea-spoonful flour of rice, one salt-spoon- 
ful mace, half table-spoonful lemon juice, one glassful sherry, 
one grain cayenne. 

Begin by cutting the cod fish into slices one inch and a 
half thick ; place into a fish-kettle of boiling water in which 
has been placed a large pinch of salt. 

Boil the fish slowly for five minutes, then drain well from 
it the water. Heat in a stew-pan the white stock, add to it 
the bread crumbs, and stew for five minutes. 

Place in a small bowl the flour of rice, make it very 
smooth with a little cold water, add to it the mace, cayenne, 
sherry, and lemon juice, stir all into the hot stock, and boil 
two minutes. Place into this mixture very carefully the 
pieces of fish, and cook very gently five minutes. When 
ready to serve, take the fish very gently from the stew-pan, 
and placing it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over. 

Note. — A dozen oysters may be added to this, according to 
taste ; or, if preferred, a table-spoonful of essence of anchovies. 

Salmon Pudding. — Provide for this one pound salmon 
(cold boiled), eight table-spoonfuls bread crumbs, one tea- 
spoonful anchovy paste, one gill cream, four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one grain cayenne. 

Take one table-spoonful of the bread crumbs, place it on 
a small baking-tin, place the tin in a moderate oven, and 
allow the crumbs to take a pale-brown colour. Grease well 
with a little butter a small mould. When this is done, 
throw into it the browned bread crumbs, and shake the 



ROAST BEEP. 39 

moTild from side to side^ so as to get a thin layer of crumbs 
on the greased surface. 

Chop very finely the cold salmon, from which must first 
be removed all bone and skin, mix it well with the remain- 
ing seven table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, also the 
anchovies. 

Add now the seasoning, and moisten all with the cream 
and the eggs, well beaten. Press this mixture firmly and 
smoothly into the mould, and twist over a piece of buttered 
paper. 

Have in readiness on the fire a sauce-pan half filled with 
boiling water ; place into this water the mould, and boil for 
one hour. 

Note. — Tinned salmon may be used for this dish; and if desired, 
the anchovy paste may be omitted. 



MBATS.-FIRST DIVISION. 
ROASTS. 

Roast Beef. — Six pounds of sirloin beef, one half table- 
spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper, one ounce of 
butter, one half ounce of flour, one half pint of second 
stock. 

Put the meat iuto a dry oven-pan, and then into a hot 
oven for ten minutes, that the albumen may form, closing 
up the pores of the beef, and confining thus the juices. 

Allow the oven then to cool a little, and continue roast- 
ing with a moderate heat, giving fifteen minutes to each 
]X)und of meat, and fifteen minutes over — which is one hour 
and three-quarters for a roast of this size. As soon as the 
fat is discharged from the meat into the pan, basting or 
moistening with this natural gravy should be comcmenced, 
and continued at frequent intervals during the entire time 
of roasting. At the end of the specified roasting time, take 
the meat from the oven, put it on a hot platter and sprinkle 
over it the salt. Pour the grease now out of the oven-pan, 



40 MEATS. 

;i.} it is not to be used for the gravy, and put the stock iuto 
tlie pan, both that it may become brown and partake of the 
llavour of the roast ; then melt in a fresh sauce-pan the 
butter, stir into it the dry flour, add the pepper and a little 
salt, also the stock, and let all boil for two minutes. Serve 
in a sauce-boat with the roast. 

Note. — Veal, Iamb, and mutton may all be roasted by the same 
directions as for roasting beef. Mutton takes the same time to do, 
and veal and lamb require twenty minutes for each pound of meat, 
and twenty minutes longer. 

The same sauce may be used for veal and mutton, but fur lamb 
only mint sauce is proper ; to prepare which see Sauces, page 155. 

Roast Turkey. — One turkey, two ounces of butter, one 
ounce of flour, one half pint of second stock, two tea-spoon- 
fuls of salt, one tea-spoonful of pepper, four ounces of beef- 
suet, seven ounces of bread crumbs, one egg, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one heaped tea-spoonful of 
chopped thyme. 

After the turkey has been cleaned and singed, chop from 
it the claws, and dipping the feet into boiling water, draw 
off the skin. Slit them also thi'ough with a sharp knife, 
that by severing the tendon the leg may not draw up in an 
ugly manner when exposed to the heat. Twist the tip of 
the wings behind the shouldera, then pass a skewer through 
the under part of the wing, through the top part of the leg, 
straight through the body, — ^through the top part of the other 
leg, and through the under part of the other wing, which brings 
the skewer in a straight line across the fowl. Take now an- 
other skewer and put it through the skin of the fowl at the 
cide, at a point that will permit the fastening down of the 
legs, by running the skewer over them, through the skin at 
the base of the breast, and again into the skin of the bird on 
the opposite side. 

Having thus trussed the turkey, the dressing must now be 
prepared. Chop the suet finely, and mix with it the bread 
crumbs, the parsley, and thyme, also half of the pepper and 
salt To bind this together drop in the egg, and then stuif 



ROAST PORK. 41 

the preparation into the turkey through the incision at the 
neck ; and when it is full, fold the skin together, and fasten 
by sewing through with a needle and thread. 

Put the bird now into a dry baking- tin, and distribute 
one ounce of butter in small pieces over the breast, after 
which place it in a quick oven, and allow it to roast 
twenty minutes for each pound, and twenty minutes ad- 
ditionally. 

While the turkey is roasting, the neck and giblets should 
be put on to boil, first being well covered with cold water ; 
and when the turkey is done, the giblets, etc., should be 
taken from the water and chopped very finely. Place the 
roast now upon a hot platter, pour the grease out of the 
baking-tin, and substitute for it the liquor made by the boil- 
ing of the giblets. In a small sauce-pan then melt the butter, 
stir into it the flour, add to it the liquor from the baking- 
tin, also the chopped giblets, season all with the remainder 
of the pepper and salt, and let the whole cook for two 
minutes. Serve in a gravy-boat along with the turkey. 

Note. — Chickens, ducks, and geese may also be prepared and 
roasted in this manner, the stuffing for ducks and geese being dif- 
ferent only in the addition of two Bermuda onions, chopped fine, 
and one tea-spoonful of sage to the seasoning of this given amount 
of dressing. 

Roast Pork. — One small loin of pork, three table-spoon- 
fuls of bread crumbs, one Bermuda onion, one half tea- 
spoonful of chopped sage, one half tea-spoonful of salt, one 
half tea-spoonful of pepper, one ounce of chopped suet, one 
table-spoonful of dripping. 

First separate each joint of the loin with a chopper, and 
then make an incision with a knife into the thick part of 
the pork in which to put the stuffing. Prepare the stuffing 
by mixing the bread crumbs together with the onion, which 
must have previously been finely chopped. Add to this the 
sage, pepper, salt, and suet, and when all is thoroughly 
mixed, press the mixture snugly into the incision already 
made in the pork, and sew together the edges of the meat 



42 HEAT& 

with needle and thread, in order to confine the stuffing. 
Grease well a sheet of kitchen-paper with the drippings, 
place the loin into this, making an envelope of the paper, 
and securing it with a wrapping of twine. Put to bake in a 
dry baking-pan, in a brisk oven, basting immediately and 
constantly as the grease draws out, and roast a length of 
time, allowing twenty minutes to each pound of meat, and 
twenty minutes longer. 

This should be served either with apple-sauce or apple- 
flitters. See page 122. 

NoTB. — ^The sage powders, that may be purchased in small pack- 
ages, can be used in all cases where chopped sage is required. 

Boast Bullock's Heart. — One bullock's heart, three 
ounces of chopped suet, three ounces of bread crumbs, one 
table-spoonful of chopped parsley, one dessert-spoonful of 
mixed powdered herbs, one gill of milk, two ounces of drip- 
pings, one Bermuda onion, one pint of cold water, one ounce 
of butter, one ounce of flour, one table-spoonful of mush- 
room catchup, one tea-spoonful of pepper, one dessert-spoon- 
ful of salt. 

The stuffing for this must first be prepared by mixing 
together the suet, bread crumbs, parsley, and powdered 
herbs. Bind this with the gill of milk, and season with the 
pepper and salt. The heart must now be made ready by 
thoroughly washing it in several waters, and cutting off the 
" deaf ears " or valves closing the arteries. Make the cells 
of the heart now into one large one by cutting away the 
partitions, place into this the stuffing, and greasing a sheet 
of kitchen-paper, tie it over the top, in order to secure the 
stuffing. 

Dry whatever moisture there may be upon the outside of 
the heart with a dry towel, and place it together with the 
drippings in an oven-tin, and allow it to bake briskly, 
twenty minutes for each pound, and twenty minutes longer, 
basting meantime. 

While the heart is roasting, the "deaf ears" must be 



BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 43 

washed, put into a sauce-pan with the pint of cold water, 
adding also the onion sliced, and the whole allowed to sim- 
mer slowly for one hour. 

When the heart is roasted, strain the liquor from the 
" deaf ears," melt in the sauce-pan the butter, stir into it the 
flour, and add to this the strained liquor, also the catchup, 
pepper, and salt, and allow all to cook for two minutes, 
when the paper should be removed from the heart, and 
placing it upon a hot platter, serve with the sauce poured 
around. 

Note. — ^A sheep^s heart is delicious done in the same way, the 
preparation being that the quantity of stuffing must be made ac- 
cording to the size of the heart. 



General Note. — The above processes have been termed "roast- 
ing," but are in reality baking ; roasting proper only being done by 
reflected heat before an open fire. Meat is more nourishing done 
upon the spit than in the oven, for the reason that the imwhole- 
Bome vapours are dissipated when exposed to the air, and pre- 
served when confined to an oven. 



MBATS.-SBCOND DIVISION. 
BOILED MEATS. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. — One leg of mutton, two ounces 
of butter, one ounce of flour, one and one half gill of milk, 
one salt-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper, two 
heaped table-spoonfuls of capers. 

Put over the fire a large sauce-pan of water, and bring it 
to the boiling-point. If the mutton be newly killed, beat it 
with a rolling-pin to soften the fibre, but it is better to have 
himg it a week if the weather permits. Plunge the meat 
into the boiling water and allow it to boil up once, then 
draw the sauce-pan aside from the blaze of the ^e^ cover it 
closely, and allow it to simmer slowly ; how slowly may be 



44 MEATS. 

determined by keeping the water bubbling easily at one 
side until it is done, which will be according to the weight 
of the leg, — ^allowing fifteen minutes for each pound, and 
fifteen minutes longer. 

Fifteen minutes before the mutton will be done, prepare 
the sauce by melting in a sauce-pan the butter, and stirring 
into this the dry flour. When the flour and butter are 
thoroughly mixed, add one gill and a half of the liquor that 
the mutton is boiling in, also the milk, pepper, and salt, 
cook all two minutes to swell the grains of the flour. Then 
take the mutton up and place it on a large hot platter, pour 
over it the sauce, adding just before doing this the capers, 
in order that their colour may not be lost by standing in the 
hot liquid. 

Note. — The plunging of the mutton first into boiling water is for 
the purpose of hardening the albumen and confining the juices of 
the meat ; it is then allowed to cook slowly, that the fibre may not 
toughen, which rapid boiling would inevitably bring about. 

Boiled Corned Beef. — Six pounds of corned beef, twelve 
ounces of flour, five ounces of beef -suet, one half tea-spoon- 
ful of baking-powder, one salt-spoonful of salt, one dozen 
small carrots, one half pint of cold water. 

Place over the fire a large sauce-pan, two-thirds full of 
cold water, and put into it the meat. Bring this quickly 
to the boiling-point over a hot fire, and when it boils, skim 
thoroughly. 

When the albumen has all been displaced and the scum 
all taken off, draw the sauce-pan aside from the blaze, and 
allowing fifteen minutes to each pound of meat, and fifteen 
minutes over, let the beef boil gently until done. 

Meantime the carrots should be well washed and thinly 
scraped, and three-quarters of an hour before the meat will 
be ready for serving, throw them in to cook with it. 

When this is done, mix next, in a large bowl, the suet, 
finely chopped, and flour ; add to this the baking-powder 
and salt, and knead into a dry dough with the water. 
Divide this dough into six or eight pieces, roll each piece 



BOILED FOWL. 46 

into a small ball, and throw them one by one into the 
boiling liquor with the beef twenty minutes before serving. 

Note. — The dropping m of the balls of dough cools the boiling 
liquor, and care should therefore be taken to wait an instant be- 
tween the putting in of each one, that the liquid may boil up ; 
otherwise the balls will burst, making a very ugly combination. 

Beef -suet should be used, unless the dish prepared is designed for 
the sick, as it mixes most readily with other materials. For the 
sick, mutton-suet should always be used, as it is easier of digestion, 
being thinner in the fibre, although more difficult to manipulate. 

Boiled Fowl : Egg Sauce. — ^Two fowls, three ounces of 
butter, one and one half ounces of flour, one half pint of 
milk, one half pint of cream, two eggs^ one salt-spoonful of 
salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper. 

After the fowls have been cleaned and singed, the legs 
must be chopped off at the first joint and pocketed, which 
is done by pressing the bones inward until entirely sheathed 
in the skin. Take then a trussing-needle, threaded from a 
ball of twine, put the points of the wings behind the 
shoulders, and passing the needle through the under part of 
the first wing at the point of, the joint, on through the thick 
part of the leg at the top, thence straight through the body, 
through the other leg and wing at the corresponding point, 
draw the thread after, carefully forming a straight line 
across the fowl ; then, turning back, put the needle through 
the upper part of the wing, through the skin of the neck 
and the upper part of the remaining wing, drawing the 
thread again after, and tying the two ends of the twine, 
which now approach each other, into a secure knot. 

Thread the trussing-needle now anew, and putting it 
through the fowl at the tail, just over the back-bone, pass it 
over one leg, through the skin at the base of the breast, and 
over the other leg, bringing the ends of the twine again 
together, where they must be tied very tightly. 

When both fowls have been trussed, grease two sheets of 
kitchen-paper, and tie one over the breast of each fowl. 
Have then in readiness a large sauce-pan of boiling water, 



46 MEATS. 

plunge the fowls therein, and allow the water to boil up. 
When boiling cover the sauce-pan closely, and drawing it 
aside from the blaze of the fire, allow the fowls to simmer 
slowly, from an hour to an hour and a quarter, until the 
chickens are tender. 

"While this is being accomplished, put two eggs into boil- 
ing water, let them boil for ten minutes, then taking them 
from the fire, throw them at once into a bowl of cold water, 
that they may cool quickly, and the coating of the yolks pre- 
serve their colouring. When the eggs are quite cold, remove 
the shells and chop the whites into irregular pieces, prepar- 
atory to making the sauce. 

Five minutes before the fowls are to be removed from the 
boiling, put into a small sauce-pan the butter, and melting it, 
stir therein the flour, adding by degrees the milk, stirring 
meantime until all boils, when the cream must be thrown 
in, also the pepper and salt, allowing the whole to cook 
together for two minutes. 

Kemove now the fowls from the sauce-pan, take the papers 
off from the breasts, and cut out the strings, and place them 
upon a large hot platter, pouring over the breast of each the 
sauce ; to which must be added at the last moment the whites 
of eggs, in order that they may not discolour with standing. 
Before serving, hold a wire sieve over the upturned breasts 
of the chickens, and rub the yolk of the eggs through upon 
theuL 

Notes. — The length of time given for hoiling is for very younpr 
fowl ; for older ones the time must be increased, to what length 
will be determined by the period at which the meat becomes tender. 

The object of trussing is to keep the fowl in proper form, and 
give it a plump, neat appearance, when brought to the table. 

The greased paper is put over the breast for the purpose of 
keeping the meat white, and, by absorbing the grease with which 
it is saturated, tender. 

Boiled Beefsteak Padding. — Two pounds of steak from 
the round, two sheep's kidneys, one pound of flour, six ounces 
of beef -suet, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one dessert- 



BEEFSTEAK PIE. 47 

spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one half pint 
of cold water, one dessert-spoonful of mushroom catchup, 
one dessert-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 

First mix well on a plate the salt and pepper, leaving out 
a little of the salt, which will be required for the crust ; after 
which cut the steak and kidney into inch-square pieces, and 
roll them about on the plate, until thoroughly seasoned. 

Now chop the suet finely, and put it upon a mixing board, 
together with the flour ; add to this the baking-powder and 
the remaining salt, and knead all into a light dough with 
the cold water. Cut off a third part of the dough, and 
reserve it for the covering of pudding, and rolling the 
remainder until about one quarter of an inch in thickness, 
grease a quart bowl, and line it therewith. Put now loosely 
into this crust-lined bowl the steak and kidney, and having 
poured over the top the catchup and Worcestershire sauce, 
fill it to within an inch of the top with cold water. The 
remainder of the crust should then be rolled out to the exact 
size of the bowl, and put over the meat, pinched firmly 
together with the lining crust around the edge. 

Dip a towel in hot water, flour it slightly, and tie it 
tightly over the top of the bowl to prevent any of the juices 
escaping, and putting all into a large sauce-pan of boiling 
water, allow it to boil for two hours and a half. 

If served in the bowl, a napkin may be arranged to cover 
the ware, and the whole be carried to table on a round china 
or silver plate. If it is to be transferred to another dish for 
serving, one should be selected for the purpose, into the 
bottom of which the round of the upper crust will fit nicely, 
and care be exercised not to break the paste in turning it 
out. 

MBATS.-THIRD DIVISION. 
MEAT DISHES. 

Beefsteak Fie. — ^Three pounds of round steak, one des- 
sert-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one 
table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one half pint of 



48 MEATS. 

second stock, one pound of flour, one half pound of butter, 
two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, three gills of cold 
water. 

The steak must first be cut into pieces three inches square ; 
into each piece put a little of the pepper and salt, and then 
roll each separately into a roll. Put these rolls loosely in 
the bottom of a deep pie dish, pour over them the Worce- 
stershire eauce, the catchup, and the stock. Place upon 
a mixing board the flour and baking-powder with a little 
salt, mix all weU together, and knead into a light dough 
with the cold water. Roll this dough out as thinly as pos- 
sible, and dividing the butter into three pieces, spread one 
piece upon the dough. Fold the dough into three layers, 
and again roll out, and repeat this process until the butter 
is all used. When this is done, roll it out to a size a 
little larger than the top of the pie dish and a half an inch 
in thickness. Rub the top of the pie dish with cold water, 
and cutting some narrow strips from the dough, line the 
edge therewith, and wetting this strip of lining also with 
cold water, cover the remaining dough over the top, when 
the edges should be pressed together with the thumb, and 
the whole evenly cut around with a knife. The pie should 
then be brushed over with a little egg or milk, as may be 
most convenient, a hole cut into the top to permit the steam 
escaping, and the pieces of crust that have been cut off at 
the edges cut and arranged ornamentally over the surface, 
to conceal the hole as much as possible without covering it. 
Put the pie to bake in a quick oven for half an hour, to raise 
and cook the crust, then cooling the oven a little, allow it to 
bake slowly an hour longer, or until the steak is quite tender, 
which may be ascertained by inserting a skewer or a fork. 

Note. — If the crust should appear to be browning too much or 
too rapidly in the baking, it may be protected by covering it with 
a sheet of greased kitchen-paper. 

Hot-pot. — One and one-half pound of lean mutton, two 
pounds of raw potatoes, one and one-half ounce of flour, one 
dessert-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, 



STEWED BEEF. 49 

one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, one table-spoonful of 
catchup, one ounce of butter, one half pint of cold water. 

When the potatoes have been pared, put them into cold 
water, and allow them to come to the boiling-point, which 
being reached, they are at once to be taken out. Slice then 
enough of the potatoes to cover the bottom of a good-sized 
vegetable dish, putting them in in layers, after which cut 
the mutton into small, convenient pieces, roll each piece into 
a mixture made of the flour, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and 
put them into the dish in layers alternating with the layers 
of potato, until the contents are level with the top. The 
remaining potatoes should be cut in half and arranged over 
the top, leaving the round sides up. Melt the butter and brush 
it over the top of the potatoes to prevent their hardening in 
the oven, pour the catchup and water in at the side of the 
dish, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. 

Note. — Potatoes should never be used without being put first 
into cold water and then brought to the boiling-point. This draws 
out the greenness, which produces indigestion, and is exceedingly 
injurious to some stomachs. 

Stewed Beef. — Four pounds of stewing beef, two carrots, 
two turnips, one onion, one half ounce of flour, one ounce of 
butter, three gills of second stock, one half table-spoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, one half table-spoonful of catchup, one 
tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper. 

The butter must first be melted in a sauce-pan, and when 
the smoke arises therefrom, put into it the beef, and brown 
well on both sides. While the beef is browning, put into a 
bowl the flour, and make it smooth with a table-spoonful of 
the stock ; add then the catchup, Worcestershire sauce, with 
the pepper and salt, and the remainder of the stock. Stir 
all until thoroughly blended, and pour the mixture over the 
browning beef. Stir the liquor around the meat until it 
boils, skimming the grease from the top as it arises, and 
adding then one carrot and one turnip sliced ; also the onion. 
Draw the sauce-pan now aside from the blaze of the fire, and 
allow it to simmer slowly for two hours ; meantime, half an 

4 



50 MEATS. 

hour before the time for cooking expires, cut the remaining 
carrot and turnip into fancy shapes with a vegetable cutter, 
throw them into a small sauce-pan filled with boiling water, 
and cook them until quite tender. When the meat is done, 
place it upon a large hot platter, strain over it the gravy, 
and taking the prepared carrot and turnip from the water, 
drain, and garnish with them the stew. 

Haricot of Mutton. — One half dozen mutton chops, one 
half ounce of butter, twelve button-onions, one ounce of flour, 
two turnips, one carrot, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt- 
spoonful of pepper, one pint of second stock. 

Trim the fat from the chops, and melting the butter in a 
sauce-pan, slice into it one of the onions. 

When the blue smoke arises from the heated butter, put 
into it the chops, and brown them to a nice pale brown. 
When this is done, take out of the pan the chops, and pour 
off the grease, after which put the flour into the pan, the 
grease still adhering to which will be sufficient to prevent 
its lumping ; add to it the stock, and stir all until it boils, 
when it should be skimmed to remove such particles of the 
onion and grease as may arise, and the chops returned to 
the pan. All should now be permitted to stew for half an 
hour gently, when the button-onions must be added ; also the 
carrot, cut in fancy shapes ; and the turnips, which must have 
been quartered ; the pepper and salt ; and the whole allowed 
to stew for half an hour longer, when it is ready to serve. 

Arrange the chops for serving in a circle upon a hot 
platter, fill the vegetables into the centre, and pour the 
sauce around from the outer edge. 

Note.— By "button-onions*' is meant onions of the size of a 
button,^the smallest onions procurable. 

Blaaciuette of VeaL — Three pounds of fillet of veal, one 
and one-half pint of white stock, one table-spoonful of lemon 
juice, one table-spoonful of sherry, one table-spoonful of 
chopped parsley, yolks of two eggs, one table-spoonful of 



FRICASS^ OP CHICKEN. 51 

cream, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of white 
pepper, one half ounce of flour. 

Begin by cutting the veal into small regular pieces about 
four inches square, place it then into a copper or porcelain- 
lined sauce-pan, and pour over it a pint of boiling white 
stock. Whatever of impurity there may be in the meat 
will at once arise to the surface ; therefore it must be imme- 
diately skimmed, and allowed thereafter to simmer very 
slowly for one hour. 

While the meat is thus cooking, put the flour into a bowl, 
wet, and make it smooth with a table-spoonful of the cold 
stock ; add to it the pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and sherry, 
and the remainder of the stock ; and pouring this into the 
sauce-pan, let the whole cook together for twenty minutes 
longer. 

Just before serving, put the yolks of the eggs into a bowl, 
together with the chopped parsley; beat these until thor- 
oughly blended, when the cream must be added ; and when 
the sauce-pan containing the veal has been removed from the 
fire and allowed to cool for two minutes, pour into it this 
mixture, and stir all quickly, to prevent the eggs curdling, 
which they are liable to do by coming in conjunction with 
the cream and lemon-juice. 

This should be served very hot* 

Note. — A copper or porcelain-lined sauce-pan is here specified 
because a common sauce-pan in which anything else has been cooked, 
unless especially scoured for this purpose, will unfailingly discolour 
the veal. 

Fiicassde of Chicken. — One young fowl, one ounce of 
butter, one and one-half ounce of flour, one carrot, one Ber- 
muda onion, one and one-half pint of second white stock, 
one tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of white 
pepper, one blade of mace, one gill of cream, one dozen of 
small mushrooms. 

First disjoint the chicken, and throwing it into cold water 
let it remain therein for twenty minutes. Put the pieces of 
meat into a copper or porcelain-lined sauce-pan, and pour 



52 MEATS. 

over them the whole of the stock, boiling. As it boils skim 
it well, add the pepper and salt, also the carrot and onion, 
and allow all to cook as slowly as possible for half an hour, 
at the expiration of which the pieces of fowl must be taken 
out and the liquor strained. 

Put the mushrooms now into the emptied sauce-pan, cover 
them with cold water, and let them boil for five minutes, 
when they should be poured out and strained, and the sauce- 
pan thoroughly cleansed. 

Melt then in the sauce-pan the butter, add to it the flour, 
and by degrees the strained stock ; and when this boils, add 
the mace, the flour, and the mushrooms, and allow all to 
cook together for twenty minutes longer. 

Remove now the mace, and at the last moment add the 
cream. Serve on a large hot platter. 

Note. — If the canned mushrooniB are tued, they will be found 
already prepared ; but if the fresh ones are preferred, or are found 
more convenient, they must be skinned before using. 

Boiled Shoulder of Mutton. — One shoulder of mutton, 
three ounces of butter, one tea-spoonful of salt, one salt- 
spoonful of pepper, three table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
one and one-half ounce of chopped suet, one table-spoonful 
of chopped parsley, one egg, one gill of cold water. 

It is desirable that the mutton should be boned by the 
butcher, but should this office fall to the cook, it is easiest 
done by placing the mutton with the skin side to the table, 
and with a sharp knife making an incision that will enable 
the bone to be firmly taken hold of. Proceed then very 
carefully to separate the bone from the flesh, exercising 
caution not to break the outer skin. 

When this is accomplished, prepare the dressing. Begin 
this by mixing in a bowl the pepper, salt, bread crumbs, and 
suet. Add to this the chopped parsley, and bind all toge- 
ther with the egg. Place this dressing into the shoulder 
where the bone has been removed, and roll the meat into a 
neat roll, tying it loosely around with twine, as the bread 
in the stuffing swells, and room must be allowed for this. 



WINDHAM CUTLETS. 63 

Now melt the butter in a sauce-pan. When it is hot, pdt 
in the shoulder, cover it closely, and allow it to cook for 
one hour and a half. During this time of cooking the meat 
should be frequently basted, and turned occasionally, that it 
may brown evenly on all sides. 

When ready for serving, put the meat upon a large hot 
platter, pour the grease out of the sauce-pan, and pour in its 
stead a gill of cold water. Stir the water well around, and 
scrape with the spoon the bottom of the pan, that all of the 
browned juices may be collected ; and when this liquor boils, 
pour it over the mutton, and serve at once. 

Windliam Cutlets. — Five mutton cutlets from the back 
rib, one gill of second stock, one carrot,, one turnip, one 
small piece of celery, one onion, one pound of mashed pota- 
toes, yolks of two eggs, one ounce of butter, one half ounce 
of flour, one and one-half gill of cold water, one half table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one half table-spoonful of 
catchup, six drops of caramel, one tea-spoonful of salt, one 
half tea-spoonful of pepper, one pint of green pease. 

Trim all of the fat from the cutlets, and leave a half an 
inch of the bone bare at the top of each one. Place them 
then in a copper frying-pan, and slice over them the carrot 
and turnip, onion and celery, adding also the pepper and 
salt. Pour over all the second stock, and put the pan over 
a slow fire, allowing the contents to cook for twenty minutes, 
turning the cutlets meantime in order that they may cook 
evenly through. While they are cooking, rub the potatoes 
through a sieve to make sure that they are perfectly smooth, 
when they must be put into a sauce-pan, the yolks of egg 
dropped into them, and stirred over the fire until the eggs 
are rendered dry by the action of heat. 

When the cutlets are ready, take a fifth part of the pota- 
toes so prepared, and flattened with a knife upon a mixing- 
board to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and roll in 
this one of the cutlets, leaving the bone bare as a handle. 
Envelop each of the cutlets in its blanket of potato prepared 
in this way ; and when this is done, lay all of them upon a 



54 MEATS. 

baking-tin, lightly greased, brush them over with a little 
milk or egg, and brown them in a very quick oven. 

While they are browning, stir into the frying-pan the 
butter, place it over the fire, and add thereto the flour, when 
the cold water should be put in, and all stirred until boiling. 
Put then with this the catchup, Worcestershire sauce, and 
caramel, and allow the whole to cook for two minutes. 

Arrange the cutlets now in a circle upon a hot platter, fill 
into the centre a pint of boiled green pease, and pour the 
brown sauce around the whole through a strainer, to keep 
out the vegetables that have been used to flavour it 

Notes. — In preparing the potato envelope, a little flour should be 
sprinkled over the board to prevent sticking. 

If, by any accident, the oven should not be hot enough to brown 
the cutlets quickly, this may be done by holding over them a 
heated fire-shovel, as leaving them long in the oven dries out the 
potatoes, and so spoils the dish. 

The sauce is made in the frying-pan in preference to a fresh one, 
in order that it may partake of both the flavour of the vegetables 
and of the juices of the meat, which adhere to the pan in the pro- 
cess of cooking. 

Mutton Soubise. — Five mutton chops, three table-spoon- 
fuls of bread crumbs, one egg, two Spanish onions, one ounce 
of flour, one half -pint of milk, one salt-spoonful of salt, one 
half salt-spoonful of pepper, two ounces of butter, one ounce 
of clarified fat, two carrots, one turnip. 

First throw the onions into boiling water to draw out the 
greenness, and then allow them to stand in the soak over- 
night When ready to prepare the dish, throw the onions 
again into boiling water, and let them boil in it for half an 
hour. Cut the carrot and turnip into small balls with a 
French vegetable-cutter, and throw these also into boiling 
water, letting them boil for twenty minutes. Prepare the 
cutlets then by trimming the fat off and dipping them into 
a well-beaten egg, when the bread crumbs should be put 
into a sheet of kitchen-paper, seasoned with a little pepper 
and salt, and the cutlets rolled from side to side therein 
until well covered. After the cutlets have been rolled thus 



BAGOUT OF RABBIT. 55 

in the bread crumbs, the coating should be pressed on firmly 
and smoothly with the blade of a knife ; and when the clari- 
fied fat has been heated in a frying-pan until the blue smoke 
arises from it, the cutlets should be dropped one by one 
therein, and cooked for seven minutes, turning them once in 
the pan while frying. 

While the cutlets are cooking, the onions should be taken 
from the boiling water and chopped very finely. Put them 
then into a dry sauce-pan, and mix them together with an 
ounce of flour, add by degrees the milk, pepper, and salt, 
when the sauce-pan must be placed over the fire and its con- 
tents stirred until the milk boils. When boiling, add the 
butter, letting all cook together for two minutes. 

The cutlets should now be arranged in a circle upon a hot 
platter, the turnip and carrot filled into the centre, and the 
soubise poured around the whole. 

Bagont of Babbit. — One rabbit, one quarter of a pound 
of bacon, one tea-spoonful of mixed dried herbs, six small 
mushrooms, one very small onion, one tea-spoonful of salt, 
juice of one-half of a lemon, two ounces of flour, one table- 
spoonful of Harvey's sauce, one wine-glafisful of sherry, one 
gill of stock. 

The rabbit must first lie for an hour in strong salt and 
water, after which it should be cut into convenient pieces 
and dried thoroughly in a towel. 

The bacon should then be cut into dice, and, putting it 
into a stew-pan and over a hot fire, fried until it is brown. 
Take out now the browned bacon, and substituting the 
pieces of rabbit therefor, fry these also until brown, sprink- 
ling in the flour as they cook, which helps them to a fine 
colour. 

While the meats are browning, the mushrooms and onion 
should be chopped exceedingly fine, almost to a powder, and 
this sprinkled over the browned rabbit, also the salt, pepper, 
and herbs. Stir all well together, then squeeze over it the 
lemon- juice, adding also the Harvey's sauce, sherry, and last 
of all the stock. 



56 MEATS. 

Cook slowly for one hour, stirring constantly meantime, 
as the perfection of this preparation lies in preserving its 
exceeding dryness without letting it burn. 

Note. — Only a young rabbit is suitable for this dish, as an old 
one requires too long for the cooking. 

The bacon is used for this preparation because of the fine flavour 
which it imparts, but butter may be substituted for it in cooking 
the rabbit, if more convenient or desirable. 

Stewed Kidney. — One pair of ox-kidneys, one ounce of 
butter, one and one-half ounce of flour, one half ounce of 
flour of rice, three gills of second stock, one tea-spoonful of 
salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one dessert-spoonful of 
mushroom catchup, six drops of caramel. 

Begin by washing the kidneys thoroughly in cold water. 
Dry them well in a towel, and cut into very thin slices. 
Prepare upon a plate the flour, pepper, and salt, into which 
dip each piece separately ; and melting the butter in a fry- 
ing-pan, when the blue smoke arises brown the kidney 
therein. 

As the pieces of kidney become brown, remove them from 
the butter into a stew-pan, and when all are thus trans- 
ferred, put the stock into the frying-pan, and stir until it 
boils. When boiling, pour the stock over the kidney in the 
stew-pan, and let all cook over a very slow fire for an hour 
and a half. At the end of this time, put the flour of rice 
into a bowl, moisten it with the catchup, add the caramel, 
and pouring this into the stew-pan with the kidneys, cook 
all together for half an hour longer. Serve in a covered 
dish. 

Braised Fillet of Veal— Three pounds of fillet of veal, 
one quarter of a pound of fat bacon, one and one-half pint 
of stock, one carrot, one turnip, one head of celery, one 
tea-spoonful of whole white pepper, one tea-spoonful of 
salt. 

Cut the bacon into thin strips about two inches in length 
and one-third of an inch in width. Place next the fillet 



RISSOLES. 57 

upon a board, and with a sharp knife take off the skin, then 
threading a larding-needle with the bacon, lard the top of 
the fillet with it as thickly as possible. When the veal is 
larded, cut the vegetables into small pieces and put them 
into a braising or ordinary copper stew-pan. Pour over 
them then the stock, add to this the pepper-corns and salt, 
and lay the fillet upon the vegetables, which should be 
arranged thickly enough to lift the meat quite above the 
stock. Place the braising-pan now over a quick fire, and 
baste the fillet constantly until the stock boils. Cover the 
fillet then with a sheet of greased kitchen-paper cut to the 
size of the braising-pan, close the lid of the pan, and place it 
in a quick oven, where it must remain for an hour and a 
quarter. While in the oven, the lid of the pan and the 
paper covering should be raised and the fillet basted at fre- 
quent intervals with the stock. 

At the expiration of the hour and a quarter, remove the 
fillet to a hot platter and put the braising-pan over a quick 
fire, until the stock is reduced to half the quantity, when 
it should be poured through a strainer around the meat 
and all hurried quickly to the table. 

Note. — The secret of successful larding lies in cutting the strips 
of bacon long, and taking a deep, long stitch with the larding- 
needle. 



MEATS.-POURTH DIVISION. 

COLD-MEAT DISHES. 

Rissoles. — Three-quarters of a pound of cold roast beef, 
one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, one tea-spoonful of 
salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one salt-spoonful of 
grated nutmeg, one table-spoonful of milk, one egg, twelve 
ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, one tea-spoonful of 
baking-powder, one and one-half gill of cold water, three 
ounces of vermicelli. 

Chop the cold meat very finely, the fat and lean together, 
place it into a bowl with the pepper, nutmeg, and nearly 



58 MEATS. 

all of the salt, and stir together with the milk. Put the 
flour now upon a mixing-board, rub into it the butter, add 
the baking-powder and remaining salt, mixing all into a 
firm dough with the cold water. When the dough is mixed, 
knead and roll it out to about a quarter of an inch thick- 
ness, cut it then into rounds with a biscuit-cutter, beat the 
egg until very light and brush the edges of the rounds 
with it. Put now into the centre of these rounds as much 
of the minced meat as the crust can be made to cover, 
gather up the edges of the dough over the meat and pinch 
them firmly together. 

When the rounds are all filled, roll them separately into 
the beaten egg, crush the vermicelli to a powder, put it 
upon a sheet of kitchen-paper and roll the rissoles by turns 
in this, until thoroughly blanketed with the powder. 

Cook now in hot clarified fat for five minutes, putting in 
only a part of the rissoles at a time, as the fat will be too 
much cooled by plunging all in at once. 

When taken from the fat, drain the rissoles upon a clean 
piece of kitchen-paper, and serve them in a hot napkin, 
garnishing with sprigs of parsley. 

Note. — ^When clarified fat or lard ib used for frying, care must 
be taken that what is used for fish and sweets be kept distinct. 

Curry. — ^Three-quarters of a pound of cold mutton, two 
ounces of butter, one onion^ one half ounce of flour, one 
dessert-spoonful of curry-powder, one apple, one half pint of 
second stock, one half tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea- 
spoonful of pepper. 

Melt first the butter in a sauce-pan, and brown in it to a 
very pale brown the sliced onion. Stir into this the curry- 
powder and flour, and when all is thoroughly mixed, add to 
the mixture by degrees the stock. 

Stir now carefully until boiling, and when this point is 
reached grate the apple and add it also. 

Put on then the lid of the sauce-pan, and allow all to 
simmer slowly for ten minutes ; in the meantime, cut the 
mutton into slices, drop it slice by slice into this boiling 



COLD BOILED MUTTON — CORNED BEEF HASH. 59 

sauce, aud allow it to cook just long enough to heat the 
meat through, when the sauce-pan must at once be removed 
from the fire and the preparation served. 

Note. — The great fault in preparing cold meats for a second 
serving lies in losing sight of the fact that the meat is already 
cooked to a turn, and allowing it to remain too long exposed to the 
drying and toughening action of heat in the second preparation. 

Cold Boiled Mutton with Tomato Sauce.— Three-quar- 
ters of a pound of cold mutton, one pint of cold stewed 
tomatoes, two ounces of butter, one half ounce of flour, one 
lialf tea-spoonful of pepper, one half tea-spoonful of salt, 
one tea-spoonful of sugar, one grain of cayenne, one gill of 
second stock. 

First cut the mutton into slices, place them neatly into 
the bottom of a flat vegetable dish, and season each piece 
lightly with the salt, pepper, and cayenne. Melt then the 
butter and make it hot, when half should be poured over 
the meat ; and into what remains stir the flour, adding to it, 
when smooth, the stock. When this mixture boils add to 
it the sugar, the remainder of the seasoning and the toma- 
toes, and let all cook for two minutes, that the tomatoes 
may become very hot, when the sauce should be poured 
over the mutton and the whole covered tightly until taken 
to the table. 

Notes. — It should be remembered that all highly - seasoned 
dishes, particularly those in which pepper predominates, should 
be served very hot. 

When cold tomatoes are not m the larder, either fresh or canned 
ones may be prepared for the above use. 

Corned Beef Hash. — One pound' of chopped corned beef, 
three-quarters of a pound of boiled potatoes, two ounces of 
butter, one gill of stock, one tea-spoonful of pepper, one 
half tea-spoonful of salt, one Spanish onion. 

Before chopping the meat trim away and remove all the 
skin and gristle, that all substances likely to present hard 
lumps may be taken out. Chop then the potatoes, taking 



60 MEATS. 

care that they do not become too fine or a mashed paste, 
and mix them together with the meat in the chopping- 
bowl. Chop the onion then finely, and brown it to a pale 
brown in the butter ; when brown, add to it the stock, and, 
when this is hot, the chopped corned beef and potatoes; 
season all with the pepper and salt, and stir over the fire 
until very hot. 

Serve this hash banked up in a hot flat dish, with a piece 
of butter let into a hole made by the print of a spoon-bowl in 
the top. 

Notes. — Cold roast beef may also be used in this way, and 
pieces of cold beef -steak as well; and a delicious, juicy hash can be 
made after this method, for those who enjoy rare meats, by substi- 
tuting raw steak minced for the cold cooked meats. 

Potatoes are best for this use that are a little imderdone, as 
when hard they mince without mashing, and so retain their char- 
acter. 

Cornish Pasties. — Three-quarters of a pound of cold 
beef -steak, one half pound of raw potatoes, one Spanish 
onion, one salt-spoonful of pepper, one tea-spoonful of salt, 
one pound of flour, four ounces of beef -suet, one tea-spoon- 
ful of baking-powder, one half pint of cold water. 

Cover the potatoes in a sauce-pan with cold water, and 
bring the water to the boiling-point, and when this is 
reached take out the potatoes and cut them into small 
square pieces. Put the pieces upon a plate and shred over 
them the onion, add to these the steak, which must also be 
cut into small square pieces, and sprinkle over all the 
pepper and nearly all of the salt. 

Toss these all now together with a fork, then place the 
suet upon a board and chop it very finely, mix well with it 
the flour, baking-powder, and the remainder of the salt, and 
make these into a light dough with the cold water. 

Cut the dough then into six or eight pieces, roll each 
piece out round and to a quarter of an inch thickness, brush 
the edges of the rounds with a little cold water, and put 
into each an equal part of the meat mixture, gather up the 



shepherd's pie — SAUSAGE ROLLS. 61 

edges of the cnist and pinch them firmly together, brush 
each over with a little egg or milk, and bake them in a 
quick oven three-quarters of an hour. 

Shepherd's Pie. — One pound of cold roast beef, one 
Spanish onion, one and one-half ounce of butter, one half 
ounce of flour, one pound of mashed potatoes, one table- 
spoonful of catchup, one half gill of cold water, one tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one tea-spoonful of salt. 

Mince the meat very finely, and melt then in a sauce-pan 
half an ounce of the butter, throw into it the minced meat, 
and brown it well, keeping the meat moving all the time 
to prevent its lumping. While this is doing sprinkle the 
flour in by degrees, both to help the browning and to 
thicken the composition. Add then the pepper, salt, and 
water, and stir all until boiling, when the onion must be 
sliced and put in. Draw the sauce-pan now to one side of 
the fire, in order that it may keep hot without cooking, and 
taking another sauce-pan, melt in it the remainder of the 
butter, add to it the gill of milk, and when this boils throw 
into it the mashed potatoes, and stir all together until the 
potatoes are very hot. 

Place then into a pie dish a layer of the potatoes, add 
the catchup to the minced meat and cover the potatoes 
with a layer of it, and so alternating the meat and potatoes, 
fill all into the dish, leaving a last layer of potato at the 
top. When this is done dip a knife into milk and smooth 
this top covering with the blade of it, and place it in a 
moderate oven for half an hour to bake, watching that the 
potatoes at the top brown handsomely. 

Note. — Veal, mutton, or cold beef -steak may be used for this 
pie as well as the roast beef. 

Sausage Bolls. — One half pound of cold pork, four leaves 
of sage, and one half saJt-spoonful of pepper, one grain of 
cayenne, twelve ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, one 
egg, one and one-half gill of cold water, one tea-spoonful of 
baking-powder, one tea-spoonful of salt. 



62 MEATS. 

The pork must be chopped very finely, also the sage 
leaves, which are to be well mixed with the meat. Season 
this with the pepper, half of the salt, and the cayenne. 
Put now the flour upon a mixing-board, and rub into it the 
butter, add to it the baking-powder and remaining salt; 
and making a little well in the centre of this mixture, drop 
into it the yolk of the egg, pour over it the water, knead all 
lightly together, and roll the dough so formed out to the 
thickness of a quarter of an inch. Cut this paste into pieces 
four inches long and three wide, beat the white of the egg 
slightly, and brush the edges of the paste with it. 

Put now into each of these pieces a portion of the chopped 
pork, gather together the edges of the crust around it and 
pinch them firmly together. Brush each one over with a 
little of the egg, place them into a lightly-floured baking-tin, 
and put them to bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 

Veal Balls. — One half pound of cold veal, eight table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs, two table-spoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, one tea-spoonful of mixed dried herbs, one half salt- 
spoonful of pepper, one tea-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoon- 
ful of grated nutmeg, two eggs. 

Put six table-spoonfuls of the bread crumbs into a bowl, 
and chopping the veal finely, mix it therewith. Season 
this with the pepper and salt, adding the nutmeg, also the 
parsley and herbs, after which the whole must be thoroughly 
mixed together. To give this consistency, drop in the yolks 
of the two eggs, saving the whites separate upon a plate. 

Boll the mixture now into small balls, using an ounce of 
flour upon the hands to prevent sticking. Beat the whites 
of the eggs then slightly, roll the balls therein, and placing 
the remaining bread crumbs in a paper roll them also in it. 
Throw them now into smoking clarified fat for four min- 
utes, when they should be taken out and put to drain on 
kitchen-paper, after which pile in orderly manner upon a 
hot napkin for serving. 

Cold Turkey with WMte Sauce.— One half pound of 



MINCED CHICKEN WITH POTATO WALL. 63 

cold turkey, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one 
half tea-spoonful of white pepper, one half tea-spoonful of 
salt, one half pint of milk, one gill of cream, one salt- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg. 

The turkey must first be boned, the skin having been 
removed, and the fragments then cut into small even pieces. 
Melt in a copper or porcelain-lined sauce-pan the butter, mix 
well with it the flour, and add by degrees the milk, stirring 
all until it boils. When boiling put in the cream, pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, also the pieces of turkey, taking great care not 
to break up the meat in the process, and let all simmer 
together very slowly until the turkey is heated through. 

Serve very hot on a small platter, with sippits of toast or 
fried bread. 

Notes. — Cold veal or chicken may also be used in this way. 

A copper or porcelain-lined sauce-pan should always be used in 
the preparation of white meats, as anything but a very bright 
vessel is sure to cause them to discolour. 

Minced Chicken with Potato WalL — Three-quarter 
pound of cold chicken, two ounces of butter, one half ounce 
of flour, one table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one 
half gill of second stock, six drops of caramel, one pound of 
potatoes, onq table-spoonful of cream, one egg, one half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Begin with chopping the cold chicken very fine, melt 
then in a sauce-pan one ounce of the butter, and when this 
is hot put into it the cold chicken and brown thoroughly ; 
add to this the flour and the stock, stirring all until it boils, 
when it must be seasoned with the pepper and salt, and the 
Worcestershire sauce and caramel thrown in ; then covering 
the sauce-pan, draw it aside from the fire, that it may keep 
an even heat but not cook. 

The potatoes must now be boiled and rubbed through a 
wire sieve while hot, and when so floured return them to 
the sauce-pan, add the cream, the remainder of the butter 
and the egg, and stir all well over the fire until the butter 
is melted and the egg dry. 



64 MEATS. 

Arrange the potato mixture then in a circle upon a hot 
platter, leaving a round hole in the centre, smooth it with a 
knife, and place in the centre the minced chicken and serve. 

Note. — If it is desired, the potato wall may be browned before 
the chicken is put in ; but if this is done at all, it must be done in 
a very hot oven, otherwise the potato will dry out and become tough 
and heavy. 

Cold Meat Sliape. — One pound of cold meat, two ounces 
of macaroni, one tea-cupful of bread crumbs, one ounce of 
butter, one egg, one table-spoonful of stock, one tea-spoonful 
of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Chop the cold meat very finely, put it into a basin when 
done, and season with the pepper and salt. Wash the 
macaroni well in cold water, and boil it for half an hour. 
Drain it then thoroughly, and cut into inch lengths, when it 
must be mixed together with the chopped meat and bread 
crumbs, and separating the butter into small pieces, mix 
that in also. Bind all now together with the egg and the 
stock, and when thoroughly mixed together, pack the mix- 
ture into a well-greased basin or bowl, and steam the con- 
tents for one hour. 

Notes. — The macaroni must be put on the fire in cold water and 
boiled rapidly. 

By steaming it is meant that the bowl or basin, covered with a 
piece of kitchen-paper, should be placed in a sauce-pan within which 
is sufficient water to reach half-way up its sides, and allowed thus 
to cook in its own steam. Any kind of cold meat except pork can 
be used for this preparation. 

Savoury Hash. — Three quarters of a pound of cold meat, 
one Spanish onion, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, 
one tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper, one 
dessert-spoonful of catchup, one dessert-spoonful of Harvey's 
sauce, one half pint of second stock, one carrot, one turnip. 

Clean and chop fine both the carrot and turnip, when they 
must be put to boil in a small sauce-pan with boiling water 
until tender, which will take about twenty minutes. While 
these are cooking, melt the butter in a separate sauce-pan, 



COLD CHICKEN. 65 

brown in it the onion sliced ; then cutting into slices the cold 
meat, roll them in the flour, and placing these slices in the 
butter with the onion, brown them slightly also. Pour over 
this now the stock, the Harvey's sauce and catchup, stir all 
together gently until the stock boils, and season with the 
pepper and the salt. 

When the pieces of meat have become thoroughly heated 
through, arrange them in a flat dish, and pour the gravy 
over. Strain the water carefully from the turnip and carrot, 
lest by after-draining it impoverish the gravy, and pile them 
high upon the top of the pieces of meat when it is ready for 
serving. 

Notes. — Cold roast beef or cold beef -steak is best for this dish, 
but any other cold meat may be used. 

[The weighing of the cold meats is given merely in order to fix 
proportions.] 

Cold Chicken. — One-half of a cold chicken, four table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one egg, one ounce of butter, half 
an oimce of flour, one gill of milk, one gill of cream, one 
salt-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Place on the fire to heat a sauce-pan half filled with clari- 
fied fat, and while it is heating, beat the egg on a plate until 
very light. Cut the chicken or turkey into neat pieces, and 
dip them in the beaten egg, taking care that each piece gets 
well covered. 

Place on a sheet of paper the bread crumbs, season it 
with a little salt and pepper, lift one by one the pieces of 
fowl, place them on the crumbs, and roll tiie paper from side 
to side so as to get the fowl well covered with the crumbs. 

When the fat in the sauce-pan is hot enough, throw the 
pieces of fowl one by one into it, and the instant each piece 
takes a pale-brown colour, remove them, and lay them for a 
second on a sheet of paper, to strain from them the grease. 

Place the fowl now on a hot dish, and melt in a small pan 
the butter. When melted, stir in the flour ; and when both 
are well mixed, add by degrees the milk. When this mix- 
ture boils, add the cream, and cook for two minutes 

5 



66 MEATS. 

longer. Add to this sauce the remainder of the salt and 
pepper, pour it over the browned fowl, and serve very hot. 

Note. — Before fxying the chicken, it would be well to glance at 
the directions for frying given in page 26. 

Minced Cold VeaL — One pound of cold veal, rind of one 
lemon, one gill second stock, one gill milk or cream, one salt- 
spoonful grated nutmeg, one half tea-spoonful salt, one salt- 
spoonful pepper, two ounces bread crumbs, one of butter. 

Mince very finely the cold veal, season it with the grated 
lemon rind, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. 

Place the seasoned veal in a stew-pan, pour over it the 
milk or cream and stock, place the sauce-pan on the fire, stir 
well the contents until boiling ; then all must cook slowly ten 
minutes. 

Pour the mixture then into a pie-dish, sprinkle over the 
bread crumbs, and place over the top the butter in small 
pieces. Place the pie-dish in a hot oven or before the fire, 
and brown the top quickly. 

Note. — Underdone veal is best for this; beef may also be re- 
cooked in the same manner. 



MBATS.-FIPTH DIVISION. 
BROILED AND FRIED. 

Broiled Kidneys with Maltre d'Hotel Butter.— Six 

sheep kidneys, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, three 
ounces of butter, one half tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt- 
spoonful of pepper, one dessert-^x)onful of chopped parsley, 
one tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. 

The kidneys should first be washed, and the thin outer 
skin torn entirely off them. Separate them then through 
the back opposite the seam with a sharp knife, cutting them 
almost through in order that they may be spread out flatly ; 
when, melting one ounce of the butter, each kidney should 
be dipped therein, a skewer passed through each leaf, and 



BROILED BEEF-STEAK — BROILED CHICKEN. 67 

the kidney straightened thereon, and sprinkling over each of 
them a little of the bread crumbs, put them upon a gridiron, 
and broil over a very hot fire. 

While the kidneys are broiling, put together the chopped 
parsley, lemon-juice, and butter, and rub all together with 
the point of a knife blade. Take the kidneys when done 
quickly from the broiler, arrange them upon a dish of buttered 
toast, sprinkle over each a little pepper and salt, and place 
in the centre of each a little of the maitre d'hotel butter. 

Broiled Beef-steak. — One porter-house steak, two ounces 
of butter, one tea-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper. 

The steak should hang for one week in the ice-box before 
using ; and before broiling, place it upon a board and beat 
it with a round rolling-pin sufficient to soften the fibre 
without mutilating it or crushing out the juices. Put it then 
upon a gridiron, and at first over the hottest part of the fire, 
that the pores of the meat may be immediately closed ; then 
turning constantly to prevent burning, broil from seven to 
ten minutes according to the thickness of the steak; and 
when done, remove it from the iron to a very hot platter, 
put the butter in pieces over the top, and press it in with 
the point of a knife blade, sprinkle over all the pepper and 
salt, and serve in its own gravy, of which the butter will have 
drawn out sufiicient from the steak without adding water. 

Note. — To this gravy may be added a table-spoonful of Worce- 
stershire sauce if desired. 
Mutton or lamb chops may be broiled also in this way. 

Broiled Chicken. — One young fowl, two ounces of butter, 
one tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper. 

The fowl must first be split down the back, washed 
thoroughly in and out with cold water, and as thoroughly 
dried in a clean towel. Grease then slightly a broiler, season 
the chicken, inside and out, by rubbing on the pepper and 
salt, and putting the fowl in it, place to broil over a strong 
clear fire. Aa soon as the juices begin to draw out, commence 
turning, and turn constantly thereafter until the meat is 



68 MEATS. 

done, which may be determined by running a skewer into 
the breast, and when this draws out easily, the chicken will 
have been sufficiently cooked. Serve on buttered toast^ dis- 
tributing butter also in pieces over the fowl, and send it to 
table very hot. 

Non. — ^Unless a very young spring chicken is used for broiling, it 
will be better that the fowl should have a slight preparatory cooking 
by steaming, which may be done by putting the chicken into the 
broiler ; and laying this over a baking-pan of boiling water, then 
covering it with a plate, set all into the oven for about twenty 
minutes. 

If the broiling fire smokes in the least, throw upon it a handful of 
salt, which will at once dear it, and prevent the fowl tasting smoky. 

Pork Sausages. — One pound of pork sausages, one and 
one-half pound of raw potatoes, one table-spoonful of cream, 
one ounce of butter, one tea-spoonful of salt^ one half salt- 
spoonful of pepper. 

Put the potatoes pared into a sauce-pan, cover them with 
cold water, and bringing them quickly to the boiling-point 
over a brisk fire, throw in the salt Boil them now rapidly 
until they begin to break on the surface, when they will be 
half cooked, and the water should be strained carefully off 
them, the sauce-pan closely covered, and drawn to the side 
of the fire, that they may finish cooking in their own steam. 
When a skewer will go into them readily, set the potatoes 
for a moment, with the sauce-pan uncovered, full over the 
fire, that the dampness of the steam may dry off, and while 
hot, mash them finely, adding the cream, pepper, and butter, 
after which again cover them closely in order that they may 
keep hot while the sausages are being prepared. 

Prick through the skin of the sausages now with a fork in 
various places, that they may not burst with the steam that 
will be generated in tiiem under the action of heat, and 
placing them in a cold frying-pan, put them over a moderate 
fire, that the fat may draw out in which to cook them, and 
fry for ten minutea 

Take up then tlie potatoes, and fill them into the bottom 
of a small hot platter, and smooth them down with a knife 



LIVER AND BACON — FRIED CHICKEN. 69 

blade that has been dipped in milk to a flat bed about an 
inch in thickness, and across this bed arrange the sausage 
lengths at regular intervals. 

NOTB. — If the gravy from the pan is used at all, it must be 
served by itself in a gravy-boat. 

Liver and Bacon. — One half pound of calf s liver, one 
half pound of bacon, one half ounce of flour, one half pint 
of second stock, one dessert-spoonful of mushroom catchup, 
six drops of caramel, one salt-spoonful of salt, one half salt- 
spoonful of pepper. 

Having been very carefully washed, the liver must be cut 
into thin slices and dried in a towel. Next slice the bacon 
thinly, and cut off the rind ; when it must be put into a 
frying-pan, placed over a moderate fire, and cooked for five 
minutes, turning it once meantime. 

Take the bacon now from the pan, arrange it upon a hot 
platter, and place in the warming-oven to prevent its cooling. 

In the grease drawn from the bacon put then the slices of 
liver, and fry for ten minutes, turning them once while fry- 
ing. Kemove the liver from the frying-pan to the platter 
containing the bacon, and stir into the pan the flour, into 
which stir the stock also, when the flour has become well 
saturated with the grease and browned. 

Stir this mixture until it boils, when the catchup, pepper, 
salt, and caramel must be added, and the whole poured over 
the liver and bacon. 

Note. — Sheep's liver may be used for this dish ; but when it is 
used, it should be parboiled before frying. 

Fried Chicken with Chive8.~0ne young fowl, two 
dozen chives, two ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, one 
half tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of white 
pepper. 

Pirst prepare the chives by cleaning and cutting the green 
tops into thin rings ; throw them then into boiling water to 
soak for five minutes, and while they are soaking joint the 
chicken and wash it lightly in cold water. Season the flour 



70 HEATS. 

with the pepper and salt, and dip into it each piece of the 
fowl, and throw them into hot clarified fat, letting them fry 
for ten minutes. "While the fowl is frying remove the chives 
from the boiling water, and dry them in a toweL Melt now 
in a frying-pan the butter, and fry in it the chives, taking 
care that they do not bum ; then removing the joints of 
chicken from the fat, drain them for a moment upon a sheet 
of kitchen -paper, when they must be placed upon a hot 
platter, and the chives distributed over them. 



MBATS.-SIXTH DIVISION. 

GAME. 

Haunch of Venison. — Six pounds of venison, five ounces 
of butter, one half pint of claret, one half pint of cold water, 
one and one-half ounce of flour, six drops of caramel, one 
tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper. 

Cover the venison with a double sheet of greased kitchen- 
paper, and secure it against slipping with a wrapping of 
twine. Place the meat in a roasting-pan, distribute over it 
upon the paper two ounces of the butter in small pieces, and 
putting the pan into a hot oven, roast the venison for one 
hour, basting from time to time as the butter melts. 

At the end of this time cut the twine, and, removing the 
paper, rub over the meat the remainder of the butter. 

Pour into the roasting-pan half of the claret, and allowing 
the venison to remain in the oven three quarters of an 
hour longer^ baste it constantly with the wine and butter 
gravy. 

Transfer the venison now to a hot platter, and skim the 
top of the gravy remaining in the pan. Stir into the gravy 
when skimmed the flour, and scrape down into it with a 
cooking-spoon all the brown juices that may have adhered to 
the pan. Add to this the remaining water and claret, 
season with the pepper and salt, and pouring the gravy then 
from the roasting-pan into a small sauce-pan, place this over 
the fire, and bring its contents quickly to the boiling-pointy 



JUGGED HARE — ROAST PHEASANT. 71 

when, dropping in the caramel, all should be stirred quickly 
together, and the gravy should be then poured very hot 
around the venison. 

Boast haunch of venison is usually serveil with an accom- 
paniment of currant jelly. 

Jugged Haxe. — One hare, two table-spoonfuls of flour, 
three ounces of butter, one Bermuda onion, six cloves, one 
half pint of brown stock, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half 
salt-spoonful of pepper, one dessert-spoonful of mushroom 
catchup, one dessert-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 

When the hare is caught, skin and clean it ; dip a towel in 
boiling water, and wipe it carefully over to remove the loose 
hairs. Dry the animal then thoroughly, and cut it into con- 
venient pieces. 

Put the flour upon a plate, and roll each piece of meat 
until entirely covered in this. Melt in a frying-pan the 
butter, and placing the pieces of hare into it, fry each one 
until brown upon both sides. 

Place now in a stone jug or jar the stock, catchup, and 
Worcestershire sauce ; season these with the pepper and salt, 
and then pack the pieces of hare with this mixture into the 
jug. Cover the jug to confine the steam, and placing it in 
a large sauce-pan of boiling water, let it cook therein for 
three hours. 

While the hare is being jugged, a large platter should be 
covered with a flaky crust (see page 173), and this baked 
in the oven half an hour ; and when the hare is done, the 
pieces thereof should be taken from the jug and placed upon 
the prepared platter, and such gravy as may have gathered 
in the jug should be poured over all. 

Note. — If a stone jiig be not available for this use, a stone jar of 
suitable size may be substituted. 

Roast Pheasant. — One pair of pheasants, one quarter of 
a pound of butter, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea- 
spoonful of pepper, six table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one 
table-spoonful of chopped parsley. 



72 HEATS. 

When the pheasants have been plucked, singed, and drawn, 
chop off the claws, and dip them into boiling water in order 
that the skin may be pulled easHj from them. Which do. 
Twist then the point of the wings behind the neck, pass a 
skewer through them at the first joint, piercing the top of 
both legs and straight through the body in the process, to 
hold the bird in proper form for roasting and serving. Tie 
the legs together just above the claws ; after which prepare 
the dressing by placing the bread crumbs into a bowl, to- 
gether with the chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, and knead 
all together with two ounces of the butter. 

Stuff the breast of each bird with this dressing, sew to- 
gether the incision at the neck, when this is done, with a 
needle and piece of thread, and place the pheasants side by 
side in a roasting-pan ; distribute the remaining butter in 
small pieces over the breast of each, and putting the pan in 
a moderate oven, roast the birds therein for an hour and a 
half, basting them constantly with the butter as it melts. 

Serve the pheasants upon a hot platter, and with bread 
and brown sauce sent to the table in separate gravy-boats. 

Note. — ^Bread and brown sauces, see page 157. 

Partridge Pie. — One brace of partridges, one pound of 
fillet of veal, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, three 
gills of brown stock, four ounces of butter, one dessert-spoon- 
ful of salt, one-half tea-spoonful of pepper. 

Pluck, draw, and singe the partridges ; after which split 
each in halves. Put into each half a piece of butter, sprink- 
ling them cilso with a little pepper and salt. Place then in 
the bottom of a deep pie-dish the fillet of veal, sprinkle over 
it the chopped parsley, and putting the halves of partridge 
upon this, line the edge of the dish with a strip of puff 
paste (see page 173) ; pour over all the stock, and cover 
over all a blanket of the paste rolled to half an inch in thick- 
ness. Bake the pie in a quick oven for an hour and a half. 

Note. — If desired, half a pound of lean bacon may be placed upon 
the veal as a flavouring ingredient. 



ROAST OBOUSB — LARKS. 73 

Boast Grouse. — ^Two brace of grouse, one half pound of 
butter, one dessert - spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of 
pepper. 

The birds should hang in a cool place at least three days 
after being shot, when they should be plucked, singed, and 
drawn, and wiped outside and inside with a clean cloth. 

Sprinkle them each then thoroughly inside with the pep- 
per, divide the butter into four equal parts, and place one of 
these inside each as well. 

Place the birds then side by side in a baking-pan, and 
putting this into a quick oven, let all bake for half an hour. 

When the grouse are roasted, arrange some slices of but- 
tered toast upon a platter ; place the birds upon these, and 
pouring over them the gravy from the pan, serve very hot. 

Bread sauce should be served with roast birds. (See 
page 157.) 

Wild Ducks. — One pair of wild ducks, one quarter of a 
pound of butter, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea- 
spoonful of pepper. 

Carefully pluck, draw, and singe the fowls; wash them 
slightly, and dry them in and outside with a towel. Sprinkle 
inside of each the pepper and salt, spread the butter well 
over the breasts, and placing them side by side upon a drip- 
ping-pan, bake in a very quick hot oven fifteen minutes. 
The blood should follow the knife when carved, if the duck 
be properly cooked. 

Cut into slices some cold boiled hominy, fry them to a 
light brown in butter, and arranging these upon a platter, 
serve the fowl upon this with an accompaniment of currant 
jelly. 

Note. — Canvas -back duck, now sent largely to this country 
from Baltimore, ought to be cooked in the same way as our English 
wild duck. 

Larks. — Six or eight larks, one quarter pound of fat 
bacon, one dessert-spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of 
pepper. 



74 MEATS. 

When the birds are plucked, singed, and drawn, they 
should be carefully cleansed inside and out with a dry 
towel. 

Cut the bacon then into very thin slices, and folding one 
of these slices over the breast of each bird, securing it there 
with a wrapping of twine, string the birds upon a spit with 
the breasts all turned the same way, and broil over an open 
fire for twenty minutes. 

Serve upon a hot platter, garnished with fresh sprigs of 
parsley or with water-cresses. 

Woodcock on Toast. — Two brace of woodcock, four 
ounces of butter, one tea-spoonful of saltj one tea-spoonful 
of pepper. 

When plucked and singed the woodcock should be drawn, 
cutting out the neck, but leaving the head, which must be 
drawn around, and the long bill passed through the legs, 
wings, and body as a trussing skewer. 

Season each by rubbing a little pepper and salt inside, 
string them upon a spit, rub over each breast a portion of 
the butter, and broil the birds over an open fire for twenty 
minutes. 

The livers should now be boiled for five minutes, pounded 
in a mortar or chopped very finely ; and this paste being 
spread over two slices of butter toast, the toast should be 
placed upon a hot platter, and the woodcock served thereon. 

Note. — Quail and snipe may be served and prepared as prescribed 
for woodcock. 

Pigeons with Green Pease. — One pair of pigeons, one 
pint of shelled green pease, two ounces of butter, one gill of 
stock, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of 
pepper. 

Pluck, singe, draw, and wash the pigeons slightly in cold 
water; twist the tips of the wings behind the shoulders, and 
threading a trussing-needle with fine twine, pierce with it 
the first joint of the wiugs, passing through the upper portion 
of the legs and straight through the body in doing sa 



STEWED WILD PIGEONS. 75 

Betum the needle then through the tips of the wings, 
piercing through the skin of the neck in passing, and bring- 
ing the twine thus to its point of departure, draw it taut, 
and tie the ends firmly together. 

The claws should now be chopped off, and crossing the 
legs, tie them neatly together ; after which, melt in a stew- 
ing-pan two ounces of butter, and when the smoke arises 
therefrom, put the pigeons into it breast downwards, and 
allow them to cook slowly for one hour, turning them from 
time to time to prevent burning, and in order that they may 
brown evenly. 

At the end of the hour, the butter in which the pigeons 
have cooked must be drained off, and the stock poured over 
them, in which they must be allowed to cook for five minutes. 

Put then in with the pigeons the pease, season them with 
the salt and pepper, and let all cook very slowly for twenty 
additional minutes. 

At the end of this time remove the pigeons from the 
stewing-pan, cut and draw out the trussing-strings, and 
arranging the birds upon a hot platter, pour the pease and 
the reduced stock around them. Serve very hot. 

Stewed Wild Pigeons. — Four wild pigeons, one quart of 
stock, one ounce of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, six cloves, 
one blade of mace, one Bermuda onion, one half tea-spoonful 
of peppercorns, one table-spoonful of mushroom catchup, 
eight drops of caramel. 

When the pigeons have been plucked, singed, and drawn, 
they must be cut into quarters, first splitting them through 
from breast to back, and then separating these halves into 
wing and drumstick quarters. 

Place these quarters into a stew-pan, cover them with the 
stock, and when this boils up, skim the surface carefully ; 
throw in the mace, peppercorns, cloves, chopped onion, and 
salt ; when, covering the sauce-pan, draw it to one side of 
the fire, and allow its contents to simmer very slowly until 
the pigeons become tender, the length of time for which 
depends entirely upon their age. 



76 HEATS. 

Put the flour now into a bowl, beat it smooth with a little 
cold water, add to this the catchup and caramel, and pouring 
this mixture into the sauce-pan with the pigeons, stir all 
together imtil boiling again, when it must continue to boil 
for ten minutes, and the pigeons then should be transferred 
to a deep platter, and the sauce from the sauce-pan strained 
over them. 



MBATS.-SBVBNTH DIVISION. 

ENTREES. 

Kromesciiiies Rnsse. — One quarter of a pound of raw 
bacon, one quarter of a pound of cold turkey, two ounces of 
cold tongue, one ounce of butter, four ounces of flour, one gill 
of milk, one half tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful 
of pepper, one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, one dessert 
spoonful of salad oil, one gill of tepid water, white of one egg. 

Cut the turkey and the tongue into small equal pieces, 
melt in a sauce-pan the butter, stir into it one ounce of the 
flour, and add to this by degrees the milk, and stir all until 
boiling. When boiling, allow the mixture to cook for two 
minutes, when the sauce-pan must be drawn aside from the 
fire, and the turkey and tongue thrown into it. 

Season all now with the pepper and salt, add to it the nut- 
meg, and turn the entire contents of the sauce-pan out upon 
a plate, and allow it to become cold. 

While this is cooling, put into a bowl three ounces of the 
flour, pour into the centre thereof a dessert-spoonful of 
salad oil, and throwing over this the gill of tepid water, 
beat all well together. 

Place upon a plate the white of egg, and whip it to a very 
stiff froth; mix the egg lightly with the contents of the 
bowl, exercising care not to break the froth ; after which 
the bacon must be sliced very thinly, and cut into pieces 
about three inches square. 

When the turkey and tongue compound has grown very 
cold, roll a little of it into each piece of bacon ; then dipping 



CURRY WITH BOILED RICK. 77 

each little bacon-roll into the batter in the bowl, drop them 
into hot clarified fat, of which there should be enough to 
cover them, and fry for five minutes. 

Drain them when done upon a sheet of kitchen-paper, 
pile them high upon a hot napkin, and serve garnished with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Notes. — By tepid water is meant two parts of cold and one part 
of boUing water. 

When hot clarified fat is not convenient, lard may be substituted 
for this as for other frying purposes. 

CaiTy with Boiled Bice. — ^Two pounds of veal, two ounces 
of butter, one Bermuda onion, two dessert-spoonfuls of curry- 
powder, one apple, three gills of stock, two table-spoonfuls 
of cream, one half of a lemon, one half tea-spoonful of salt 

First melt the butter in a small sauce-pan, and add to it 
the onion very finely chopped. With an iron spoon toss the 
onion about in the pan until it comes to a pale brown colour ; 
then strain from it the butter, and put the onion aside upon 
a plate xmtil it is required. 

Betum the butter to the sauce-pan, and when again hot 
throw into it the veal, which first must have been cut into 
small square pieces. Brown the meat well upon all sides, 
and when this is done, stir in the cuny-powder, and draw 
the sauce-pan aside from the fire. 

Dry then in a towel the apple, and grate it with a carrot- 
grater over the veal in the sauce-pan. Betum the sauce-pan 
to the fire, add to its contents the salt and the stock, stir all 
untn boiling, and then put in the browned onion. 

After the onion has been thrown in, draw the sauce-pan 
again aside from the blaze of the fire, and leave all to sim- 
mer uncovered for two hours, for the purpose of reducing 
the sauce. 

Just before ready for serving, stir in the cream, squeeze 
over it the lemon-juice, and dish up at once. 

This should be served with boiled rice, which must be 
prepared as follows : — 

Take three quarters of a pound of dry rice, and putting it 



78 MEATS. 

into a strainer, wash thoroughly with running water. When 
washed, throw the rice into a large sauce-pan two-thirds 
filled with boiling water, into which has been put a dessert- 
spoonful of salt. Cover the sauce-pan tightly until the 
water boils up, when the lid should be taken off, and the 
rice left to boil very rapidly for fifteen minutes. At the 
end of fifteen minutes take out of the pan a kernel of the 
rice, and if it flours by rubbing between the thumb and 
finger, it is sufficiently cooked; but if not yet done — ^the 
length of time required depending upon whether the grain 
be or be not freshly gathered — it must be kept boiling a few 
minutes longer, keeping in mind the fact that rice must be 
boiled quickly, otherwise it will be transformed into a 
starchy jelly. 

Throw the rice when done into a colander, that it may be 
thoroughly drained of water, and serve very hot with the 
curry, but in separate dishes. 

Notes. — ^The reason for browning the onion separately from the 
meat is that the veal requires so much longer time to brown than 
the onion, that the vegetable would be reduced to a crisp before the 
meat could be done. 

Lean mutton, rabbit, and chicken may also be curried in this 
way. 

Bissoles of Veal — One pound of fillet of veal, on& quarter 
of pound of suet, one pound of bread crumbs, one half pint 
of milk, two eggs, one salt-spoonful of powdered mace, one 
tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one 
ounce of butter, one half ounce of flour, one half pint of 
white stock. 

Remove the skin from the veal, chop it very finely, after 
which pound it well in a mortar. 

Put into a bowl three quarters of a pound of the bread 
crumbs, pour the milk over, and allow the crumbs to soak 
therein for ten minutes ; then pouring the bread crumbs 
from the bowl into a towel, twist the ends of the towel in 
the hands, and press from them as much of the milk as 
maybe. 



BEEF OLIVES. 79 

Mix the bread cromba with the pounded veal, season the 
mixture with the mace, pepper, and nearly all of the salt ; 
drop into it then the yolks of egg, and beat all together with 
the finely-chopped suet. 

Boll the compound then into small balls, dipping each 
into the beaten whites of egg, and then into the remaining 
bread crumbs ; after which they must be thrown into hot 
clarified fat and fried for ten minutes. 

While the rissoles are frying, melt the butter in a small 
sauce-pan ; stir into it the flour, then add by degrees the 
stock, stirring aU until it boils, when it must be seasoned 
with the salt, and allowed to cook for two minutes. 

Drain the rissoles, when fried, upon a sheet of kitchen- 
paper, and serve upon a hot platter with the sauce poured 
around. 

Beef Olives. — One and one-half pound of round steak, 
four table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one dessert-spoonful of 
parsley, one egg, one ounce of butter, one dessert-spoonful 
of mushroom catchup, one dessert-spoonful of Ha.rvey's sauce, 
one half ounce of flour, six drops of caramel, one half pint 
of second stock, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful 
of pepper. 

Put the sprigs of parsley into cold water, wash it well, 
picking the stalk from it, and then dry thoroughly by wrap- 
ping it in a towel and wringing the water therefrom. Place 
it upon a board, chop very finely, and mix with it the bread 
crumbs. Drop into this the egg, seasoning all with the 
pepper and salt, and mix the whole well together. 

The fat must now be trimmed from the steak and cut into 
little pieces, and the steak itself cut into squares four inches 
in size. 

Into each of the pieces of steak put an equal part of the 
fat and bread-crumb dressing; make them into ix)lls, and 
tie around them a piece of twine. 

Heat the butter now in a sauce-pan, and brown the rolls 
therein. 

While the rolls are browning, put the flour into a bowl. 



80 MEATS. 

and make it smooth with a table-spoonful of stock; and 
when smooth add to it the catchup, caramel, and Harvey's 
sauce ; after which the remaining stock should be put in cold, 
and pour all over the browned olive-rolls, stirring until the 
liquid boils. 

When boUing, skim, and then covering the sauce-pan, 
allow the whole to simmer slowly for an hour and a half. 

At the end of this time take up the olives, and cutting 
the strings therefrom, pour over them the gravy from the 
pan. 

Fricass^ of Sweet-Breads. — One pair of sweet-breads, 
two ounces of butter, one half ounce of flour, one egg, two 
table-spoonfuls of cream, one tea-cupful of white stock, one 
dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, one salt-spoonful of 
grated nutmeg, one half tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt- 
spoonful of pepper. 

Let the sweet-breads lie for an hour in iced water, pre- 
paratory to cooking ; at the end of which they should be put 
into a sauce-pan, covered with cold water, and placed over 
the fire, where, when boiling, they should be left for five 
minutes. 

Take them then from the fire, and throw them into a basin 
of cold water to whiten; after which draw off the outer 
casing, and cut them into thin slices. 

Melt in a sauce-pan the butter, stir into it the flour, and 
add the stock ; when all must be stirred until it boils. Put 
into this the sliced sweet-breads, season all with the pepper 
and salt, adding the nutmeg; and covering the sauce-pan, 
let the whole simmer slowly for three quarters of an 
hour. 

Just before the sweet-breads are ready for serving, beat 
up the egg until very light, mix well with it the cream and 
chopped parsley, and moving the sauce-pan off the fire, stir 
this mixture in with the sweet-breads, and stir all together 
for two minutes, taking care that it does not boiL 

This should be served immediately, and very hot, that the 
eggs may not get heavy. 



LARDED SWEET-BREAD& 81 

Larded Sweet-Breads. — One pair of sweet-breads, two 
ounces of fat bacon, one half pint of stock, one half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one lemon, 
four drops of caramel, one half ounce of flour. 

The sweet-breads must be first thrown into boiling water, 
boiled for five minutes, and then put into iced water for half 
an hour. 

Cut the bacon into thin strips two inches long and one- 
third of an inch in thickness, and when the sweet-breads 
have been taken from the water and dried thoroughly in a 
towel, thread the strips of bacon into a larding-needle, and 
lard the sweet-breads thickly, making a deep long stitch, as 
the flesh of the sweet-bread is so apt to break. 

When larded, place the sweet-bread into a stewing-pan, 
and pour over it the stock boiling-hot. 

Cook them slowly for half an hour, when they must be 
put into a slightly-greased baking-tin, set into a hot oven, 
and baked for fifteen minutes. 

While the sweet-breads are cooking, stir into the stock in 
the sauce-pan half an ounce of the flour; add to it the 
caramel, and let all cook for two minutes, when it should be 
seasoned with the pepper and salt 

When the sweet-breads have baked the fifteen minutes, 
take them from the oven, and putting them upon a small 
hot platter, pour around them the sauce from the pan, and 
garnish with the lemon, sliced. 

Vol-an-Vent of Sweet-Breads. — Six ounces of flour, six 
ounces of butter, yolk of one egg, one tea-spoonful of lemon- 
juice, one half gill of cold water, one gill of milk, one half 
tea-spoonful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper, one 
grain of cayenne, one pair of sweet-breads. 

First put the flour upon a mixing-board, make a little well 
in the centre thereof, and drop into it the egg and half of the 
lemon- juice, adding by degrees the cold water, kneading all 
meantime firmly together, and when kneaded, roll out 
thinly. 

Into the centre of the rolled paste put five ounces of the 

6 



82 MEATS. 

butter, fold the edges together until the butter is covered, 
and, flouring a rolling-pin, roll out as thinly as possible. 
Fold the crust now into three layers, and roll out again ; and 
repeat this process of folding and rolling seven times, when 
it should be put into the ice-box, and left long enough to 
become chilli through and Arm. 

Take the sweet-breads, first thoroughly washing them, 
and putting them into a sauce-pan, cover with cold water, 
and bringing the water to the boiling-point, allow them to 
boil in it for five minutes ; when they should be again 
thrown into cold water, rewashed, and cut into small pieces. 

Now put the butter and milk into a sauce-pan over the 
fire, and when the milk boils, put into the pan also the pieces 
of sweet-bread ; season them with the cayenne pepper and 
salt, and let all simmer slowly for three quarters of an hour. 

When the crust has become cool and firm in the ice-box, 
take it out^ and placing it upon the mixing-board, roll it 
out to about a third of an inch in thickness. Gut out two 
vol-au-vent with the vol-au-vent cutter, or a biscuit cutter 
if the first be not convenient ; cut in each a smaller circle, 
about one inch from the edges, half way through the crust ; 
and placing both upon a baking-tin, bake in a hot quick 
oven for twenty minutes. 

When done, remove the crust from the inner circle by 
slipping in a knife-blade and splitting it asunder; scrape 
out the centre of the vol-au-vent, in order to make a hollow 
in which to pack the sweet-breads ; put into each equal 
parts of the sweet-bread ; sprinkle over the meat the re- 
mainder of the lemon- juice ; cover over it the little baked 
circle previously split out; garnish with fresh sprigs of 
parsley, and send to table in a hot napkin. 

Notes. — ^The difficulty in making the vol-au-vent paste lies in its 
becoming heated in rolling, and the butter, which is used in ex- 
cessive proportion, running in consequence. This may be prevented 
by putting it to cool between rollings, and taking a little longer 
time for its preparation. 

It is really puff -paste that is used for the vol-au-vent, and thQ 
crust should rise in baking at least three inches* 



GHAUD-FROID OF CHICKEN. 83 

Chaud-froid of Ohicken. — One young fowl, two ounces 
of butter, two ounces of flour, one half pint of milk, one gill 
of cream, one salt-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of white 
pepper, one quart of second stock, one half ounce of gelatine, 
one table-spoonful of vinegar, one sprig of parsley, one gill 
of cold water, whites of three eggs, one half tea-spoonful of 
black pepper. 

This dish requires two days for its preparation, and there- 
fore its use must be anticipated. 

Melt first the gelatine in half of the cold water, and let it 
stand for ten minutes ; put then the stock into a copper or 
porcelain-lined sauce-pan, add to it the vinegar, parsley, 
black pepper, and half of the salt; place it over the fire, 
and when tepid put into it the gelatine. 

Beat the whites of the eggs well in a bowl, with which 
mix the remainder of the cold water; pour this into the 
stock, and whisk all together until the stock boils, using 
either two forks or an egg- whisk. 

The instant the stock boils cover the sauce-pan and draw 
it aside from the fire ; let it simmer here slowly for twenty 
minutes, when it should be strained into a basin through a 
clean towel 

Let this preparation stand over night, as it will not cool 
through and set in shorter time. 

Clean and wash also the fowl ; then plunging it into boil- 
ing water, let it cook until a skewer will pierce easily into 
the breast, when it must be immediately taken out, and 
it also allowed to stand over night to become thoroughly 
cooled. 

Having prepared the material in the above manner, upon 
the day the chaud-froid is to be used cut first the wings 
and legs from the fowl and trim them neatly ; cut also two 
fillets from the breast, taking care not to break the crisp 
grain of the meat. Melt now in a porcelain-lined or copper 
sauce-pan the butter, stir into it the flour, add by degrees 
the milk, and stir all until boiling, when the mixture must 
be seasoned with the white pepper and salt, the cream added, 
and stirred carefully until it has boiled for two minutes. 



84 HEATS. 

Take the sauce-pan from the fire^ and put with its con- 
tents a dessert-spoonful of the cold jelly; draw the skin 
off the pieces of fowl, and dip them into this sauce, when 
they are to be placed in a sieve, and left about thirty 
minutes to cooL 

When the sauce is quite cold upon the pieces of fowl, 
arrange them neatly into the bottom of a flat dish, chop 
roughly the jelly and scatter it around, and garnish the dish 
either with fresh sprigs of parsley, or with parsley finely 
chopped and sprinkled over. 

Notes. — Small pieces of cold turkey may be made up in this 
way into a most delicious entree. 

A leek or onion may be used to flavour the sauce, being put in 
if used, with the parsley. 

Chicken Croquettes. — One half of a cold chicken, six 
mushrooms, one gill of stock, two table-spoonfuls of cream, 
one half tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, 
one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, two eggs, six table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one ounce of butter, one ounce 
of flour. 

The skin must first be taken from the cold chicken and 
the bones removed, when the meat should be chopped very 
finely, and the mushrooms, having been also well washed 
and chopped, must be mixed therewith. 

Melt the butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it the flour, add 
by degrees the stock, stirring until it boils, and then put 
into it the cream. Season with the pepper and salt, flavour 
with the nutmeg, and let all cook briskly for two minutes. 
When this has cooked, remove the sauce-pan from the fire, 
stir into it the chopped chicken and mushrooms, and pour 
all out upon a plate to cool. 

When quite cold, separate into equal parts, and form the 
compound with the hands to something near the shape of 
a pear ; beat the eggs well upon a plate ; roU each croquette 
therein, and placing the bread crumbs upon paper, roll each 
also in this ; and throwing them into hot darified fat, fry 
for two minutes. 



QUINBLLES OF VEAL. 85 

When done, fake them from the fat, drain upon a piece 
of paper, and if the pear-shapes are a success, thrust into 
the small end of each a clipping of parsley stalk, for the pur- 
pose of increasing the likeness by furnishing stems. 

Qninelles of VeaL — One pound of fillet of veal, two 
ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, one half pint of second 
stock, two eggs, one gill of cream, one tea-spoonful of lemon- 
juice, one half tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of 
white pepper. 

Mix together in a sauce-pan one ounce of butter and one 
ounce of flour ; add to these one gill of stock, and stirring 
all until boiling, let it boil for two minutes thereafter. Turn 
out this mixture after the two minutes upon a plate, and let 
it get cold. 

While this is cooling, put the veal upon a board, and re- 
moving the outer skin, chop it very finely ; after which put 
into a mortar and pound thoroughly, when it must be rubbed 
through a wire sieve, which will bring the meat to the smooth- 
ness of a paste. 

Then put into the mortar the cooled mixture from the 
plate, drop into it one egg, pound these well together, add 
then the veal and the remaining egg, and seasoning all with 
half of the salt and pepper, use again the pestle until all of 
these ingredients become smoothly blended. 

Grease now a saut^ or perfectly fresh frying-pan, prepare 
two dessert-spoons by dipping them into boiling water, and 
taking one in the right hand and the other in the left, 
dip into the mortar the right hand spoon, filling it with the 
paste, and with the left hand spoon scoop the mixture from 
the one to the other, forming thus the quinelles, when they 
must be put into the saut^-pan carefully, that they may not 
lose their shape ; and when the pan is so fiUed, pour in at 
the side as much boiling water as will cover the quinelles, 
when they should be placed over a slow fire, and allowed to 
poach for ten minutes. 

Now melt in a small sauce-pan the remaining ounce of 
butter, stir into it the remaining ounce of flour, add by de- 



86 MEATS. 

grees a gill of stock, and let all boil up. When boiling, pour 
in the cream, season with pepper and salt, and taking it from 
the fire, add then the lemon-juice. 

Arrange the quinelles when done, and taken from the 
water, in a circle upon a flat dish, and pour the sauce around 
them. 

Note. — ^When a mortar and pestle are not available, the veal 
may be first cooked a little in boiling stock, and then chopped as 
finely as possible before being passed through the sieve. 

Grenadines of Veal — Two pounds of fillet of veal, one 
carrot, one turnip, one head of celery, one pint of white 
stock, six ounces of fat bacon, one tea-spoonful of whole 
white pepper, one half tea-spoonful of salt 

Eemoving the skin from the veal, cut it into shapely oval 
pieces about half an inch in thickness. Cut the bacon into 
thin strips two inches long and one-third of an inch wide, 
and threading a larding-needle with the bacon, lard the 
ovals of veal as thickly as possible with it. 

Place in a sauce-pan the vegetables cut in small pieces, 
over which sprinkle the pepper and salt, and pouring in 
around the vegetables the stock, bring aU to the boiling- 
point. 

When the stock boils, place upon the vegetables the ovals 
of veal, taking care that they do not overlap one another ; 
and covering the sauce-pan closely, draw it aside from the 
fire, and allow the contents to cook slowly for three 
quarters of an hour, basting occasionally meantime with the 
stock. 

Take the grenadines now from the sauce-pan, place them 
upon a slightly-greased baking-tin, and brown them in a 
quick oven. 

While the grenadines are browning, put the sauce -pan 
again over the fire uncovered, and let the stock reduce as 
fast as possible. 

When all is done, arrange the grenadines tastefully in a 
flat vegetable-dish, and pour through a strainer over them 
as sauce the vegetable-flavoured stock. 



TALLEYRAND CUTLETS — TIMBALES. 87 

Talleyrand Outlets. — Two pounds of fillet of veal, three 
ounces of butter, one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
one half dozen of mushrooms, one eschalot, one half ounce 
of flour, yolks of two eggs, one table-spoonful of cream, one 
half tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, 
one half pint of white stock. 

Cut the veal into small equal ovals, and place them in a 
saut^ or very clean frying-pan, together with two ounces of 
butter. Over a slow fire cook the meat for five minutes, in 
order to whiten it, being careful to turn the pieces and not 
to let the butter brown. 

Draw the pan then from the fire, and sprinkle over the 
meat the chopped parsley, the mushrooms, and eschalot, 
which must also have been chopped ; and melting in a sepa- 
rate sauce-pan the remaining ounce of butter, stir into it 
the flour, add by degrees the stock, and bring all to the 
boil ; and the instant this is accomplished, pour all over the 
veal in the sautd-pan, and leave all to cook for twenty 
minutes very slowly, turning the meat and the sauce-pan 
constantly while cooking, to prevent the meat discolouring. 

Prepare now in a bowl the yolks of egg and cream, season 
this with the pepper and salt, when the veal should be taken 
from the sauce-pan and arranged upon a flat dish, and the 
cream and egg stirred into the sauce-pan with the sauce. 

The contents of the sauce-pan must not be allowed to boil 
after the yolks of egg are added, but as soon as the sauce 
thickens with them by simmering slowly, it must be poured 
over the veal. 

Timbales. — One quarter of a pound of macaroni, one 
half pound of cold roast beef, four ounces of bread crumbs, 
one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, one half tea-spoonful 
of pepper, one half tea-spoonful of salt, one table-spoonful 
of catchup, one table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, two 
eggs, three gills of stock. 

The macaroni must first be well washed in cold water, 
then put into a sauce-pan, covered with cold water, put on 
the fire, and boiled for fifteen minutes. 



88 MEAT& 

Now grease twelve deep cup-tins or ordinary tea-cups. 
When the macaroni is boiled, drain the water from it, and 
drying it lightly in a towel, cut it into inch lengths, and 
arrange these lengths upon end in the cup-tins. 

Chop the cold meat very finely, and putting it into a 
bowl, mix with it the bread crumbs, and season this with 
the pepper and salt, adding also a little of the Worcester- 
shire sauce and half of the catchup. 

Drop in upon this the egg, together with a table-spoonful 
of the stock, and when the whole has been well mixed to- 
gether, separate it into equal quantities ; put a portion into 
each of the cups, and press it snugly down upon the maca- 
roni with the blade of a knife. 

Each tin or cup must be now covered with a small piece 
of kitchen-paper, and all placed in a shallow sauce-pan, in 
which there is boiling water sufficient to reach half way up 
their sides ; when the sauce-pan should be covered, and the 
timbales allowed to cook very slowly for one hour, boiling 
water being added from time to time to keep the quantity 
the same. 

Five minutes before the hour expires the butter and flour 
must be mixed together in a small sauce-pan, to which add 
the stock ; and when this mixture boils, add the remainder 
of the catchup and the Worcestershire sauce, also the re- 
mainder of the pepper and salt, and allow all to cook for two 
minutes. 

When the timbales are done, turn them carefully out in 
regular order upon a large deep platter, and pour the sauce 
around them, taking care not to spatter the tops. 

Notes. — In using catchup, caution should be exercised in the use 
of salt, as all catchups are highly salted in preparation. 

Fresh beef -steak may also be used for this dish, with the difiFer- 
ence that micooked meat will require a little more time over the 
fire. 

Fillet of Beef, with Sance HoUandais.— One and one- 
half pound of fillet of beef, one pound of potatoes, yolks of 
two eggs, one table-spoonful of cold water, one table-spoon- 



CUTLETS X-LA-MARl^CHAL. 89 

f al of cream, one ounce of butter, one half table-spoonful of 
lemon- juice, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one half tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

The fillet must first be cut into slices nearly an inch in 
thickness, place them then upon a slightly-greased gridiron, 
and broil over a clear fire for seven minutes, turning them 
constantly meantime. 

Take then a small tin sauce-pan, put into it the yolks of 
egg, pour over them the cold water, and whisk until well 
mixed with two forks or an egg-whisk. Add the cream, 
lemon-juice, and butter; season with a very little of the 
pepper and salt, and place the sauce-pan either in a larger 
sauce-pan of boiling water or over a very slow fire ; and 
whisk the contents until the butter melts and it rises to a 
froth. 

The slices of beef must now be arranged on a dish in a 
circle, the end of one piece being made to lap upon the other 
until the circle is complete, when the sauce should be poured 
over, and the whole garnished with a sprinkling of chopped 
parsley. 

Around the meat there should be now placed a row of 
potato balls, which must be prepared in the following man- 
ner : — 

Pare and wash the pound of potatoes, and cut from them 
with a French vegetable-cutter as many balls as the potatoes 
will furnish. Dry the balls well in a towel, and throw them 
into hot clarified fat or lard for four minutes. When fried, 
drain them for a moment upon a piece of kitchen-paper, and 
transfer them to the dish. 

Cutlets k-la-Mar^chaL — Five mutton cutlets, one dessert- 
spoonful of parsley, two ounces of veal, one salt-spoonful of 
nutmeg, one table-spoonful of cream, one half tea-spoonful 
of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one half dozen 
mushrooms, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one egg, 
two ounces of clarified fat. 

Chop the veal very finely, and pound it in a mortar ; rub 
it when pounded through a wire sieve, and add to it the 



90 MEAT& 

chopped parsley, season with a very little pepper and salt 
and flavour with the natmeg, and stir ail to a consistency 
with the cream. 

Take the cutlets and trim them neatly, leaving on a part 
of the fat, and roll them in the egg, which must have been 
previously beaten. 

Put the bread crumbs into a paper, and seasoning them 
with the remainder of the pepper and salt, roll the cut- 
lets in this also; make hot in a frying-pan the clarified 
fat, and when the smoke arises, put into it the cutlets, and 
fry them for eight minutes, turning them once, and allowing 
four minutes. 

When fried, take them from the fat, and spread over each 
one an equal quantity of the veal mixture from the mortar ; 
chop the mushrooms, and sprinkle a little of this over each ; 
and put them into a moderate oven, and let them bake for 
ten minutes. 

Serve in a hot napkin, garnished with sprigs of parsley. 

Browned Sweet-Breads. — One pair sweet-breads, one gill 
milk, three giUs cream, one egg, two ounces of butter, one 
ounce flour, one pinch grated nutmeg, one salt-spoonful salt, 
one salt-spoonful pepper, six drops carameL 

First soak the sweet-breads for one hour in cold water ; 
place them in a sauce-pan, and cover them with fresh cold 
water ; place the pan on the fire, and allow the sweet-breads 
to boil for twenty minutes. Have in readiness a bowl of 
cold water; and when the sweet-breads are boiled, throw 
them into the water, and wash them welL Make an inci- 
sion in the side of each, and squeeze into it a little lemon- 
juice. 

Dip now the sweet-breads into the milk, and then roll 
them in the bread crumbs, placing the crumbs on a sheet of 
paper. Beat well the egg on a plate, and brush the sweet- 
breads over with it, and again roll them in the crumbs. Heat 
in a deep stew-pan as much clarified fat as will cover the 
sweet-breads. When the smoke rises from the fat, drop in the 
sweet-breads. 



BROWNED SWEET-BREADS. 91 

The instant the sweet-breads take a pale-brown colour, 
remove them and keep them hot Melt then in a small 
stew-pan the batter, stir in the floor, and when well mixed 
add by degrees the cream, and drop in the caramel ; season 
with the pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; stir all till boiling, and 
pour at once over the sweet-breads, and serve immediately. 

Grnbral Bkhabks. — ^Bermuda and Spanish are applied to onions 
to indicate size — ^Bermuda signifying a small onion or of the size 
of a Bermuda onion, and Spanish onion meaning a huge onion or 
of the size of a Spanish onion, although if these especial growths 
of onions are to be conveniently procured, they will be found of 
superior quality to the ordinary. 

Specific quantities of salt are given in the foregoing recipes in 
order to preserve proportions ; but the use of this seasoning may be 
governed by the respective palates of thifse for whom the dishes are 
prepared, keeping in mind that while more may be required by 
those who are excessively fond of salt, less is always safer, as to 
salt a dish is easy, while to freshen one that is over-salted and acrid 
therefrom is generally impossible. 

Harvey's and Worcestershire sauce being nearly the same, may 
be substituted for each oiher as convenience may require, but the 
result will be more satisfactory from using each as directed. 

The recipes throughout this work have been kept as nearly as 
possible to quantities for serving four persons, using such surplusage 
as must necessarily occur in the proper cooking of joints in the cold 
meat preparations. 

The etiquette of entr^ making one service to a person sufficient, 
the proportion of quantity has still been in a measure preserved, as 
these are generally served in odd numbers, five, seven, nine, etc. 



VEGETABLES. 

Spinach with Eggs. — For this provide four quarts of 
spinach, one table-spoonf ol of cream, one ounce of butter, 
four eggs, one tea-spoonful of lemon- juice, one grain of 
cayenne, one dessert-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of 
pepper. 

The spinach must be thoroughly washed through tliree or 
four waters, and the stalks picked off. Put it when washed 
into a dry sauce-pan, sprinkle over it the salt, and covering 



92 VEGETABLES. 

the sauce-pan closely, place it over the fire. The salt and 
heat together will draw from the spinach enough of its own 
green liquor in which to boil ; and when it reaches the boil- 
ing-pointy allow it to boil for ten minutes. 

At the end of this time remove the spinach to a colander 
that it may drain entirely of its liquor ; and when drained, it 
must either be very finely chopped or passed through a 
coarse wire sieve. 

Into a small sauce-pan put the butter and cream, and place 
all over the fire until the cream boils, then stir in the spinach, 
and let the mixture get very hot, but not boiling, as boiling 
will draw more liquor from the spinach and spoil the dish. 

Season now with the cayenne and pepper, and draw the 
sauce-pan aside from the fire to keep hot until the eggs are 
prepared. Fill a small sauce-pan with boiling water, and 
into this put the lemon-juice. Break the egg into a cup, and 
drop it into the sauce-pan, the water in which must continue 
to boil ; and as soon as the form of the first egg sets, break, 
and drop in the second in the same manner, which continue 
until the four eggs are in the sauce-pan, permitting each egg 
to remain about three minutes. 

When the eggs are done, remove the spinach from its 
sauce-pan, and pile it high in the centre of a vegetable dish, 
smoothing the edges around and the top with a knife blade. 
Take the eggs from the water with a skimming spoon, and 
arrange them upon the flat top of the spinach. 

This dish should be garnished for serving with comers of 
fried bread or toast. 

Note. — If lemon-juice is not convenient, a few drops of vinegar 
may be used for poaching the eggs ; but the flavour of it will always 
be detected, although it firms the egg quite as well as the lemon- 
juice, which leaves no taste of itself with the egg. 

Oauliflower au Gratin. — Provide for this one cauli- 
flower, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, one gill of 
cold water, two table-spoonfuls of cream, three ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, one grain of cayenne, one salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, one table-spoonful of salt. 



CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN — TOMATO FARCL 93 

A close firm head of cauliflower must be selected for this 
preparation, and this must be first thrown into a basin of 
strongly salted water, and left for twenty minutes, in order 
that sand, grit, or other foreign substances may be drawn 
out. Trim off the green leaves, and cut the stalk squarely 
across about two inches below the flower, after which pre- 
pare a large sauce-pan by putting it over the fire, filling it 
two-thirds full of boiliug water with a table-spoonful of salt. 

Into this sauce-pan put the cauliflower, the flower down- 
wards, and cover it until the water boils up vigorously. 
Then removing the sauce-pan cover, all should be allowed 
to boil rapidly for fifteen minutes. 

At the end of this time take the cauliflower from the 
water, and placing it upon a gratin pkte with the flower 
uppermost, wrap over it thickly but lightly a clean towel, 
both to keep it hot and to absorb such moisture as may 
have remained in the top. 

Melt in a small sauce-pan the butter, into which stir the 
flour, and add by degrees the cold water. When this boils, 
take it from the fire ; add to it the cream and two ounces of 
the grated cheese. Season all with the cayenne and pepper, 
and removing the towel from the cauliflower, pour this sauce 
over it. Sprinkle over the flower the remaining ounce of 
cheese, and place all into a quick oven, where the cheese 
upon the top must be allowed nicely to brown. Serve im- 
mediately. 

Notes. — If Parmesan cheese camiot be obtained, any strong old 
cheese that is dry enough to grate may be used instead. 

In boiling all vegetables and cereals, the more rapidly the water 
boils, the more satisfactory will be the result. 

If a gratin-plate is not available, the cauliflower must be put 
upon a plate that will stand the heat of the oven ; and in serving, a 
napkin may be laid imder, and prettily folded around to conceal 
the plate if unsightly. 

Tomato FarcL — Provide for this one quart of fresh 
tomatoes, two Spanish onions, four table-spoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, three ounces of butter, one half tea-spoonful of salt, 
one te^-spoonful of pepper. 



94 VEGETABLES. 

The onions must have been put into boiling water, and 
soaked over-night ; and when required for the preparation, 
they should be dried in a towel, and then sliced, making the 
slices about a third of an inch thick. 

Melt in a fr3dng-pan an ounce of the butter, and when 
hot, brown on both sides in it the onion slices. 

Slice the tomatoes, and arrange a layer of them in the 
bottom of a vegetable dish, and over this put a layer of the 
browned onion. Sprinkle over this a little of the bread 
crumbs, season with the pepper and salt, and with these 
alternating layers proceed to fill the vegetable dish, leaving 
a top covering of the bread crumbs. 

When the dish is filled, distribute the butter in small 
pieces over the top, and place all in a moderate oven to bake 
for three quarters of an hour. 

Note. — Canned tomatoes will answer for this farci, and when 
used, the half of a quart can will be sufficient. 

Boiled Asparagus with White Sauce. — For this pro- 
vide one bunch of asparagus, two oimces of butter, one ounce 
of flour, one gill of milk, two table-spoonfuls of cream, one 
salt-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Trim the asparagus, and cut it into equal lengths ; wash 
it in cold water, and putting it into a sauce-pan, cover with 
boiling water, and shut the lid of the sauce-pan for the first 
moment. When the water boils up vigorously, take off the 
cover, and let the asparagus boil for twenty minutes. 

Five minutes before the asparagus is done, take a small 
sauce-pan, and mixing in it the butter and the flour, add to 
this by degrees a gill and a half of the Hquor in which the 
asparagus is boiling. Stir this with the butter and flour 
until the mixture boils, when the milk should be added, and 
two minutes additional boiling allowed. Season with the 
salt and pepper, and drawing the sauce-pan aside from the 
fire, stir into it the cream. 

Take the asparagus from the water at the expiration of 
the twenty minutes, and drain it upon a wire sieve ; place it 
in a vegetable dish, and pour the sauce carefully around and 



GREEN PEASE — TURNIPS. 95 

across the tips, exercising caution not to spatter the ends of 
the stalks that are to be taken in the fingers. 

Notes. — ^Asparagus may be boiled in the above manner, and 
served upon toast instead of with the white sauce. 

A very simple manner of boiling this vegetable is to stand the 
unbroken bundle of asparagus upon the stalk end upright in a sauce- 
pan containing boiling water enough to reach nearly to the tender 
green tips. It must be boiled rapidly until tender, and then, pre- 
paring a hot napkin upon a platter, take the asparagus from the 
water, and draining it for a moment, place it upon the napkin, cut 
the bands, and draw them away, and fold over all snugly the ends 
of the napkin. The white sauce which is used for this must be 
served in a gravy-boat. 

A favourite way of serving boiled asparagus is to make it veiy 
cold by standing in the ice-box, and then serve with a sauce piquant, 
composed of vinegar, pepper, salt, and salad oil. 

In this way asparagus may be used as a salad. 

Green Pease. — One quart of shelled pease, one ounce of 
butter, one half teanspoonf ul of powdered sugar, one tea-spoon- 
ful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one sprig of mint. 

Place the pease in a large sauce-pan of boiUng water, in 
which should be thrown the sprig of mint, and covering, let 
them boil rapidly from ten to twenty minutes, as the age of 
the pease may require. 

The moment the pease are done, they must be taken from 
the water and drained, as overcooking spoils them. While 
the pease are draining, melt the butter in the sauce-pan in 
which they have been cooked, and when this is melted, 
throw back into it the pease, sprinkle over them the pepper, 
salt, and sugar, and covering the sauce-pan, shake it over 
the fire until the pease are very hot, taking care that they 
neither brown nor break. 

TumipB. — For this take six turnips, two table-spoonfuls 
of beef -dripping, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoon- 
ful of pepper, one table-spoonful of cream. 

First pare the turnips, taking care to cut off the white 
lining of the skin, which is bitter, and the thickness of which 
will be perceived by the clearly defined circle discovered in 



96 VEGETABLES. 

cutting off the top. Wash the turnips thoroughly in cold 
water to whiten them and remove the finger-marks, and 
putting them into a sauce-pan, cover them with boiling 
water, and closing the lid of the sauce-pan, boil them rapidly 
until a fork will easily penetrate to their centres. 

When done, drain the water well off them, add the beef- 
dripping, pepper, and salt, and with a potato-masher mash 
them finely, using a fork occasionally to break the lumps. 

When mashed, stir in with them the cream, and pile them 
high in a vegetable dish, smoothing the edges around with a 
knife. 

Boiled Cabbage. — For this provide one head of cabbage, 
three table-spoonfuls of beef-dripping, one tea-spoonful of 
salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one lump of soda the 
size of a pea. 

Select a large firm head of cabbage, wash it well, and cut 
away the coarse outer leaves. This done, cut off the stalk, 
and make cuts in the base of the cabbage, crossing each 
other in the centre, so that the water may penetrate to the 
heart and cook it equally. 

Prepare a large sauce-pan of boiling water, into which 
throw the soda; put into this the cabbage, covering the 
pan until the water boils up. When removing the cover, it 
must be allowed to boil rapidly, until a skewer or fork will 
pierce readily through it. 

Bemove the cabbage now to a colander, and let the water 
drain from it, and chop it roughly with a knife when drained. 

When chopped put it into a vegetable dish, pour over it 
the beef-dripping, sprinkle over the pepper and salt, when 
it must be tossed about with a fork very quickly in order 
that the cabbage may not cool. When the seasoning is 
thoroughly distributed, send it at once to the table. 

Notes. — This may be cooked exactly the same way, and served 
whole if preferred ; in which case the dripping must be heated and 
poured over, and the pepper and salt sprinkled over afterwards. 

Cabbage may also be boiled very palatably in the liquor in which 
either salt beef or salt pork is boiled. 



BOILED CARROTS — BOILED POTATOES. 97 

Boiled Carrots with Brown Sauce. — For .this prepare 
one bunch of young carrots, one ounce of butter, one half 
ounce of flour, one half pint of brown stock, one dessert- 
spoonful of catchup, one salt-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoon- 
ful of pepper. 

Wash the carrots in cold water, and cut them squarely 
across at the tops. Throw them into boiling water, and boil 
them for twenty minutes. Ten minutes before this time 
expires, take the carrot-tops that have been cut off, dry 
them thoroughly, and melting the butter in a frying-pan, 
put in these top pieces, and brown them upon both sides. 

When these are browned, stir in with them the flour, add 
by degrees the stock, and stir all together until the stock 
boils. Season with the pepper and salt, flavour with the 
catchup, and again let the sauce boil for two minutes. 

When the carrots are boiled, take them from the water, 
and rolling them one by one in a towel, wring lightly to rub 
off the thin outer skin, stand them in regular order upright 
in a vegetable dish, and strain the sauce around them. 

NOTB.— Old carrots may be used also in this way, but they must 
first be scraped and pared down to uniform sizes, and also will re- 
quire a little longer boiling. 

Boiled Potatoes. — For this provide ten potatoes, one half 
table-spoonful of salt. 

Select the potatoes of nearly an equal size, and wash them 
well in cold water. Fare them very thinly, as the best part 
of the potato lies nearest the skin, and putting them into a 
sauce-pan, cover them with cold water, and bring the water 
quickly to the boiling-point. Throw in the salt, and cover- 
ing the sauce-pan, let the whole boil rapidly until the sur- 
faces of the potatoes begin to crack ; then the water must 
be drained entirely off, leaving the potatoes dry in the sauce- 
pan, and re-covering them, put the sauce-pan at one side of 
the fire, turn it occasionally, that they may not catch on the 
bottom, and let them cook in their own steam until they can 
be easily pierced with a skewer. 

When done, remove the cover, and set the sauce-pan for 

7 



98 VEGETABLES. 

a moment over the fire to aid the escape of the steam and 
dry off any moisture. They must be carefully transferred 
to a vegetable dish in order to preserve them unbroken. 

Notes. — Instead of serving these potatoes whole, they may be 
passed through a colander or coarse wire sieve directly into a 
vegetable dish. The vegetable dish should be put into a very quick 
oven, and the potatoes browned over the top. Served in this way, 
the potatoes have a beautiful light appearance resembling well- 
boiled rice, besides being most delicious to the taste. 

New potatoes should be boiled after the above method, with this 
difference : they must be scraped instead of pared, and thrown 
into boiling water to boil instead of into cold. 

If the potatoes are desired plainly mashed, a little cream and butter 
should be added to them ; and when mounded into the dish, a lump 
of butter may be let into the top, and some pepper dusted over all. 

Golcannon. — Provide for this one pound of cold boiled 
potatoes, one pound of cold boiled turnip, one ounce of 
butter, one table-spoonful of bread crumbs, one salt-spoonful 
of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper. 

The bread crumbs must first be put upon a tin or plate, 
and into the oven and browned to a light brown. Grease 
slightly a plain mould holding about three pints, and sprinkle 
around the sides and over the bottom of this the browned 
bread crumbs. Put into a bowl the potato, and with it the 
turnip, which must first be pressed down and drained of any 
water that it may have gathered in standing to cool. Mix 
these thoroughly together, and season them with the pepper 
and salt, adding also the butter, and when all is stirred 
together, pack the mixture into the mould. Pressing it down 
with the blade of a knife, place the mould in a moderate 
oven, where it must remain until its contents be thoroughly 
heated ; then turn the form carefully out into a vegetable 
dish, and serve steaming hot. 

Boiled Haricot Beans. — Prepare one pint of dried haricot 
beans, four hard-boiled eggs, yolk of one raw egg, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, two ounces of flour, two ounces 
of butter, one half pint of milk, one heaped tea-spoonful of salt. 



FRENCH ARTICHAUTS. 99 

Soak the dried beans over night in an abundance of cold 
water. Two hours before they are required to serve, drain 
from them the water in which they have soaked, and putting 
them into a sauce-pan, cover them well with cold water, and 
let them boil briskly for two hours. The salt must meantime 
liave been put into the water; and from time to time as the 
water in the sauce-pan reduces by boiling, cold water must 
be poured in to keep the quantity the same, taking care to 
do this with sufficient frequency to prevent cooling the boil- 
ing liquor too much by the quantity of cold water added. 

Five minutes before the beans will be ready to dish up, 
melt in a small sauce-pan the butter, stir into it the flour, 
add by degrees the milk, and stir all until boiling. Let the 
mixture cook for two minutes, and season it with the salt. 

When the beans are done, drain the water from them in 
the quickest and most convenient way, so that they be 
rendered perfectly dry, place them in a deep vegetable dish, 
take the sauce from the Are, drop into it the yolk of egg^ and 
pour all immediately over the beans. 

Take the shells from the hard-boiled eggs, cut them in 
two, and arrange them around the dish of beans with the 
rounded sides up. Sprinkle over each piece of egg a little 
of the chopped parsley, when the dish is ready for serving. 

Notes. — It is contended that the dried haricot beans cannot be 
properly cooked through without breaking their skins ; but if the 
above directions are strictly followed in the particularities of adding 
cold water, and boiling rapidfyy the result will be that the beans 
are not only thoroughly cooked to their centres, but have preserved 
their form unbroken. 

The dried white bean in ordinary use may also be successfully 
boiled in this way. 

French Artichauts. — Provide six large artichauts, two 
ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one gill of cream, one 
and one-half gill of milk, one grain of cayenne, one dessert- 
spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper. 

The artichauts must first be scraped and thrown into 
vinegar and water, three parts water, and one part vinegar, 
to preserve their colour. 



100 VEGETABLES. 

When all are scraped, transfer them from the vinegar- 
water to a sauce-pan containing sufficient boiling water to 
cover them nicely, into which must be thrown the salt, and 
boil them until a skewer will pierce them readily. 

Melt now in a small sauce-pan the butter, stir into it the 
flour, and, by degrees, the milk also, stirring all untU boiling. 
Add to this the cream, and letting the mixture cook for two 
minutes longer, season it with the salt and pepper, when the 
sauce should be poured into a vegetable dish, and the arti- 
chauts, taken from the boiling water and thoroughly drained, 
must be arranged to stand up in regular order in it. 

Note. — It is sometimes preferred to serve the artichauts plainly 
boiled, as above, with a sauce piquant with vinegar, salad oil, pep- 
per, and salt. 

Brussels Sprouts. — Prepare one quart of Brussels sprouts, 
one ounce of butter, one dessert-spoonful of salt, one half 
tea-spoonful of pepper. 

Throw the Brussels sprouts into a basin of cold water to 
draw out the grit or sand, and wash them well, then cut off 
with a knife the stalk end. 

Have in readiness a sauce-pan of boiling water, into which 
has been placed half of the salt ; drain the sprouts from the 
cold water, and throw them into the sauce-pan ; put on the 
cover until the water boils up, and uncovering them, let 
them boil rapidly for ten minutes. 

Pour them into a colander to strain off the water, melt in 
the sauce-pan the butter, return the Brussels sprouts to it, 
and sprinkle over them the remainder of the pepper and 
salt. Shake the sauce-pan over the fire until the sprouts are 
thoroughly heated, taking care that they do not brown. 

When hot, transfer the sprouts to a vegetable dish, and 
serve at once. 

Boiled Onions. — Take six Spanish onions, one half tea- 
spoonful of salt, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one 
half pint of milk, one gill of cream, one saltHspoonful of 
pepper, one lump of soda the size of a pea. 



BAKED ONIONS. 101 

The onioDB must first be skinned and allowed to stand all 
night in water, which must have been poured over them 
boiling, and in which the soda has been dissolved. 

An hour before required for use, the onions should be put 
into a sauce-pan covered with cold water, put over the fire, 
and when boiling, boiled for fifteen minutes. At the end of 
this time the first water should be drained off, nearly all of 
the salt sprinkled over them, and re-covering them with boil- 
ing water, allow them to boil for half an hour longer. 

While the onions are boiling, melt in a small sauce-pan 
the butter, stir into it the flour, and by degrees the milk ; 
and when this mixture boils, add to it the cream, and let all 
cook together for two minutes, when it must be seasoned 
with the pepper and remaining salt. 

Take the onions from the water, when boiled, one by one, 
with a draining-spoon, pressing them against the side of the 
sauce-pan in lifting them, that the water may be entirely 
expressed. Place them in a vegetable dish, pour over them 
the white sauce, and they are ready to serve. 

Baked Onions. — ^Take six Spanish onions, three cmnces 
of butter, one half ounce of flour, one tea-cupful of brown 
stock, one half table-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of 
pepper, one lump of soda the size of a pea. 

Soak the onions over night in a preparation of boiling 
water in which the soda has been dissolved, and an hour 
before they are required to serve, place them into a sauce- 
pan, cover them with cold water, place the sauce-pan upon 
the fire, and when boiling let them continue to cook briskly 
for fifteen minutes. 

Take them when boiled from the water, and putting them 
into a vegetable dish, distribute over them two ounces of the 
butter, sprinkle over them the pepper and salt, and placing 
the v^etable dish into a moderate oven, let them bake for 
half an hour. 

Ten minutes before the onions will be done, put into a 
bowl the flour, and make it smooth with the stock. Five 
minutes before taking the onions from the oven, pour the 



102 YEQETABLES. 

mixed flour and stock over them, distribute over all the 
remainder of the butter in small pieces, and when the 
remaining five minutes expire, take the onions from the oven 
and serve at once. 

Notes.— To fry onions, they should first be skinned, then boiling 
water poured over them. Dry them in a towel, cut them into thin 
slices, and fry in hot butter. 

Onions are exceedingly indigestible, unless soaked for twelve 
hours before cooking. Fried onions cannot therefore be recom- 
mended for dyspeptics. 

Lima Beans. — Take one pint of shelled lima beans, two 
ounces of butter, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoon- 
ful of white pepper. 

Put the shelled beans into a bowl, and pour over them 
some boiling water. Leaving them in this water five min- 
utes, take them out and drain them ; then placing them in a 
sauce-pan of boiling water in which the salt has been dis- 
solved, allow them to boil for twenty minutes. 

When done pour them into a colander, and when 
thoroughly drained pour them into a vegetable dish, sprinkle 
over ^hem the pepper, and melting the butter, pour it also 
over them, and serve. 

Note.— Succotash may be made from the boiled lima beans by 
adding to them an equal quantity of canned green com, and an 
equal quantity of milk and water, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a 
lump of butter, being poured over the mixture while warming. 

Oabbage a-la-Mode. — Provide one head of cabbage, one 
quarter pound of cold chicken, two ounces of cold pork, one 
quarter pound of rice, three ounces of butter, one half ounce 
of flour, one pint of brown stock, one tea-spoonful of salt, one 
tea-spoonful of pepper, one Bermuda onion. 

A dose firm head of cabbage should be selected, and this 
well washed in cold water, after which it must be placed in 
a large sauce-pan of boiling water, and boiled over a brisk 
fire for fifteen minutes. 

At the end of this time, take the cabbage from the water, 



BOILED PARSNIPS. 103 

X>lace it npon a platter to cool a little, and while this is cool- 
ing, put into a chopping bowl, and chop very finely the 
chicken and pork ; chop the onion also, and mix it with the 
meat ; season all with the pepper and salt ; wash well the 
rice, and mix it with the pork, fowl, and onion ; open the 
leaves of the cabbage gently, and inserting this mixture be- 
tween them, bind the cabbage around with a piece of twine, 
and melting in a large sauce-pan the butter, fry the cabbage 
in it until thoroughly brown. 

Mix the flour with a little of the stock in a bowl, and 
when the lumps are all beaten out, add the remainder of the 
stock. Pour tiiis over the browned cabbage, and let all stew 
very slowly for three hours thereafter. 

When done, serve in a vegetable dish with the sauce 
poured around. 

Note. — Cold roast beef or lean roast mutton may be substituted 
when chicken is not convenient. 

Boiled Parsnips. — Prepare ten medium-sized parsnips, 
three oimces of butter, three giUs of milk, one table-spoonful 
of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one salt-spoonful of 
grated nutmeg. 

Wash the parsnips ajs cleanly as possible in cold water, 
when they must be put into a sauce-pan of boiling water in 
which the salt has been dissolved. Boil them from half an 
hour to three quarters of an hour, as their age and size may 
demand ; and when boiled until tender, take them from the 
water, one by one, rubbing each in a clean towel to remove 
the skin, which will have become loosened by boiling. 

Place them in a heated vegetable dish, and when the 
butter has been melted, the milk added thereto, together 
with the pepper and nutmeg, and all boiled, this should be 
poured over the parsnips, and all immediately served. 

NoTB. — To fry parsnips, they must first be plainly boiled, then 
skinned, dried in a towel, and split into halves and fried in hot 
melted butter until browned. 

Leeks an Gratin. — Provide eight leeks, one half table- 



104 VEGETABLES. 

spoonful of salt, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, one 
half pint of second stock, one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, 
lliree ounces of grated cheese. 

Kemove first the fibrous roots from the leeks, cut off the 
green stalks, leaving about an inch length of them on for 
use. Put them into a bowl, and covering them with boiling 
water, let the leek soak for ten minutes. At the expiration 
of this time, put them into a sauce-pan of boiling water, into 
which throw the salt, and let all boil for three quarters of 
an hour. 

While the leeks are boiling, mix together in a sauce-pan 
placed over the fire the butter and flour, to which add the 
stock by degrees, and let all cook for two minutes, after 
which season with the pepper, throw in the nntmeg and 
one ounce of the cheese. 

When the leeks are done take them from the boiling 
water, drain them, and place them upon a gratin-dish. 
Pour over them half of the sauce from the sauce-pan, 
sprinkle over with the remainder of the cheese, and plac- 
ing the dish in a quick oven, let all become slightly browned. 

When browned, remove the dish from the oven, pour 
around the leeks the remaining sauce, and serve. 

Note. — When a silver gratin-dish is not available, an ordinary 
flat dish may be used, with the consideration that it must be some- 
thing that will not be injured by the heat, and also that the prepara- 
tion must be served in the same dish in which it is baked. 

French or String Beans.— Provide : one quart of beans, 
two ounces of butter, one salt-spoonful of pepper, one dessert- 
spoonful of salt, one grain of cayenne. 

First string the beans, observing always to begin at the 
stem end of the pod when the strings will strip easily down- 
ward. Lay them flat upon a board, and with a sharp knife 
cut them through the centres lengthwise, when they must 
be gathered into small bunches of equal size and secured 
with a piece of twine. 

Place the bunches now into a sauce-pan two-thirds full of 
boiling water, in which the salt has been dissolved, and boil 



STEWED TOMATOES — STEWED CELERY. 105 

them for twenty minutes if the beans are very young, but if 
older they will require quite half an hour to become tender. 

When done drain off the water, and transferring each 
little bunch to a vegetable dish and cutting the strings, 
arrange them neatly therein. 

Melt the butter, season it with the cayenne and pepper, 
and pour it over all just before serving. 

Note. — String beans are sometimes served cut in small squares 
and with a sauce of melted butter and milk, seasoned with salt and 
pepper. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — Provide : two quarts of fresh toma- 
toes, two ounces of butter, two milk biscuits, one half tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one half tea-spoonful of salt. 

Put the tomatoes into a sauce-pan two-thirds filled with 
boiling water, and let them boil until the skins begin to 
crack and curl. Take them from the water, drain them in 
a colander, and when thoroughly drained, dry the bottom 
of the colander and rub the tomatoes through it. 

Betum them to the sauce-pan, and let them stew slowly 
for one hour, when the butter, pepper, and salt must be 
added ; and just before serving stir in the biscuit, which 
must have been crushed fine with a rolling-pin preparatory 
to using. 

Note. — Canned tomatoes may be prepared also in this way, 
except that, having already been cooked in the process of canning, 
they require only to be drained, made fine, and thoroughly heated. 

Stewed Celery. — Prepare : one head of celery, two ounces 
of butter, one ounce of flour, three gills of milk, one half 
tea-spoonful of pepper, one tea-spoonful of salt. 

Wash the celery thoroughly, cut it into inch lengths, when 
it should be put into a sauce-pan, covered with boiling water, 
and cooked until tender, the length of time for which de- 
pends entirely upon the age and quality of the celery. 

When tender the water must be poured off, the milk and 
flour mixed together in a bowl, which season with the pepper 
and salt, and pouring it over the celery, return the sauce-pan 



106 VEGETABLES. 

to the fire, stirring all until the milk boils, when the butter 
must be added and the stew served hot. 

Boiled Beets. — Provide: six medium-sized beets, one 
half pint of vinegar, one blade of mace, one half tea-spoonful 
of white peppercorns, one half tea-spoonful of black pepper- 
corns, one ounce of butter, one tea-spoonful of salt. 

The beets must be carefully washed in cold water, taking 
care not to break off the fine fibrous roots, in order that they 
may not bleed in boiling and so lose their colour. Put them 
when washed into a large sauce-pan with plenty of boiling 
water, and boil them until a skewer or fork will pierce easily 
to their centres. When tender drain off the boiling water, 
and taking each beet separately, rub off their skins in a 
clean dry toweL 

Take four of the beets and cut them into slices about a 
quarter of an inch in thickness. Place these slices into a 
vegetable dish, melt the butter and pour it over them, and 
sprinkling over also the pepper and salt, they are ready to 
serve. 

Meantime, while the beets have been boiling, the vinegar, 
mace, and peppercorns must have been put together in a 
sauce-pan and boiled five minutes. When the remaining two 
beets have been also sliced and arranged in a vegetable dish, 
the prepared vinegar should be thrown over them, and the 
whole put away to become cold before serving. 

Notes. — Beets prepared as above with the vinegar will keep for 
a week if desired. 

Beets as well as potatoes may be baked in the oven, and will be 
found very sweet; but a long time is required to have them become 
thoroughly baked, the length of which must be determined by test- 
ing with a skewer. 

Macaroni and Oheese. — Three ounces of macaroni, 
three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one half pint of 
milk, two ounces of butter, one gill of cream, one egg, one 
tea-spoonful of dry mustard, one salt-spoonful of grated nut- 
meg, one salt-spoonful of salt, one salt-s})oonful of pepper. 



DRESSED CAULIFLOWER. 107 

Wash the macaroni in cold water, and removing it from 
the water, place it into a sauce-pan, cover it with cold water, 
and let it boil in this for Mteen minutes. 

At the end of this time drain off the water, cover the 
macaroni with the milk, and allow all to boil for three 
quarters of an hour longer. 

When this is done put the cream into a bowl, beat it until 
very light, add the egg, and beat both together until 
thoroughly blended. Season this mixture with the pepper, 
salt, cayenne, and mustard, pour into it the boiled macaroni, 
add to this two ounces of the cheese and one ounce of the 
butter, and when all has been well mixed, pour it out upon a 
platter, sprinkle over the remainder of the cheese, and dis- 
tribute over also the remaining ounce of butter in small 
pieces. Place the platter in a moderate oven, and bake its 
contents for ten minutes, and serve at once upon the dish 
upon which it is prepared. 

Dressed Oanliflower. — One large cauliflower, two ounces 
of butter, one egg^ four table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one 
tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper. 

Lay the cauliflower in a basin, pour over it sufficient water 
to cover it, and sprinkle in a good table-spoonful of salt 
Allow the cauliflower to lie in the water for twenty minutes. 

Bring to the boiling-point a large sauce-pan of boiling 
water, drain well the cauliflower from the salted water, put 
it into the boiling water, and let it boil for twenty minutes. 

When cooked, take the cauliflower from the water and 
chop it up finely, add to it an ounce and a half of the butter, 
also the bread crumbs, pepper, and salt; then stir in the 
eggf which must first be lightly beaten. Mix all well to- 
gether, and place in a flat dish, and put over the top in 
small pieces the remaining butter. Bake this now in the 
oven until it has a pale brown colour, or merely brown it 
before the fire. 

Note. — ^This dish is generally made from cauliflower which has 
sprung a little; cold boiled cauliflower may also be made up hi this 
way. 



108 VEGETABLES. 

TnmipB in White Sauce.— Ten young turnips, one half 
pint of white stock, one ounce of butter, one half ounce of 
flour, one gill of milk or cream, one salt-spoonful of salt, one 
half salt-spoonful of white pepper. 

Wash well the turnips, pare them thickly in order to re- 
move the bitter part, which lies near the outside. 

Place in a sauce-pan the stock and allow it to boil, throw 
into it the turnips, and boil them for half an hour. 

When tender place in a small bowl the flour, make it 
smooth with a table-spoonful of the cream or milk, add the 
pepper and salt, then the remainder of the cream. Draw 
the sauce-pan from the fire, stir into it the contents of the 
bowl, add then the butter, stir all well together until the 
butter is melted ; but do not let it boiL Serve at once. 

Maitre d'Hotel Potatoes.— Six boiled potatoes, one 
table-spoonful of chopped parsley, .two ounces of butter, one 
half ounce of flour, one half pint of boiling water, one half 
table-spoonful of lemon- juice. 

Pare six potatoes that have been boiled in their skins, cut 
them into slices about half an inch in thickness. 

Melt in a sauce-pan the butter, and stir into it the flour. 
When well mixed pour over the boiling water, and squeeze 
in the lemon-juice. 

Place carefully in this mixture the potatoes, also the 
parsley, toss all gently over the fire until the potatoes are 
quite hot ; but take care not to break them. Season to taste 
with pepper and salt, and serve on a very hot dish. 

Tnrnip Radishes. — One dozen of radishes, one half table- 
spoonful of salt, two ounces of butter. 

Dissolve in a large sauce-pan of water the salt ; when boil- 
ing throw into it the radishes, which ought first to be care- 
fully trimmed, leaving on them a few of the green top 
leaves. 

When the radishes have boiled thirty minutes, remove 
them to a very hot dish, melt the butter in a small sauce-pan, 
and pour it over. 



STUFFED TOHATOE& 109 

Stuffed Tomatoes. — Eight large tomatoes, one and one- 
half ounce of bread crumbs, one ounce of butter, one grain 
of cayenne, one pinch of salt, one pinch of pepper. 

Cut from the tomatoes quite evenly the stems, slice off the 
top of each, and remove carefully from each the pulp, taking 
care not to break the skins — the handle of a tea-spoon will 
best accomplish this. 

Place in a bowl the bread crumbs, and break into it the 
butter ; season with the pepper, salt, and cayenne ; place over 
the bowl a wire sieve, and rub through it into the bowl the 
pulp of the tomatoes. 

With the back of a wooden spoon mix well the contents of 
the bowl, and fill with the mixture each of the tomato-skins, 
and replace the top formerly sliced off. 

Place the stuffed tomatoes on a baking-tin, and bake them 
in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Do not permit them to 
brown. Put them on a 4iot dish, and pour round them a 
brown sauce, directions for which will be found on page 157. 



SALADS. 

Chicken Salad. — One chicken, one tea-spoonful of salt, 
one tea-spoonful of white pepper, one half head of celery, 
one grain of cayenne, yolks of two eggs, one table-spoonful 
of vinegar, one table-spoonful of capers, one head of lettuce, 
one gill of salad oil. 

The fowl must be first cleaned, and then put into boiling 
water and boiled until tender; after which it should be 
set into the ice-box, and allowed to remain until perfectly 
cooL 

When cool, cut it into small square pieces and remove the 
skin. The celery should be well washed, and it also cut into 
pieces of a similar size. 

Put into a bowl the yolks of eggs, drop into this, drop by 
drop, the oil, and beat them together with the back of a 
wooden spoon. 

When this is done the mixture should resemble a thick 



110 SALADS. 

cream, to which the vinegar should be added ; and putting 
the chicken and celery together in a salad-bowl, pour over 
them this compound, sprinkle on also the pepper, salt, and 
cayenne, and mix all thoroughly together with a fork. 

Take then the fresh green leaves of the lettuce, and, wash- 
ing well first, arrange them around the edge of the salad- 
bowl, sprinkle the capers over the top, and garnish the centre 
with tips of celery to give the salad an attractive appearance. 

Note. — Cold turkey may be substituted for chicken in making a 
salad. 

Potato Salad. — Eight large potatoes, two table-spoonfuls 
of vinegar, one half of a Bermuda onion, one table-spoonful 
of chopped parsley, yolks of two eggs, one gill of salad oil, 
one tea-spoonful of white pepper, one tea-spoonful of salt^ 
one head of lettuce. 

Wash and pare the potatoes, and put them to boil in a 
sauce-pan containing as much cold water as will nicely cover 
them. Boil them until tender, but not broken on the sur- 
faces, when the water must be drained off, and the potatoes 
allowed to get quite cold. Cut them first into quarters, and 
then these quarters into slices, place the slices into a salad- 
bowl, sprinkle over them the chopped parsley, and also the 
onion, which must have been chopped exceedingly fine, 
when the vinegar, pepper, and salt must b6 added, and all 
tossed with a fork until thoroughly mixed. Put now into a 
small bowl the yolks of eggs, and drop in thereafter the salad 
oil, drop by drop, stirring all until it comes to a cream, when 
the mixture must be poured over the salad in the salad-bowl, 
and the dish garnished with the fresh green leaves of the 
lettuce. 

Shrimp Salad. — One can of shrimps, two heads of lettuce, 
one gill of salad oil, one table-spoonful of vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of white pepper, yolks 
of two eggs. 

The heads of lettuce should be carefully trimmed, well 



SHRIMP SALAD — LOBSTER SALAD. Ill 

washed, and thoroughly dried in a towel, avoiding as much 
as possible the crushing of the leaves, which causes them to 
wilt. 

They should next be picked apart, and the outer leaves 
torn into medium-sized pieces, reserving the tender inner 
leaves for garnishing. 

Place the torn lettuce in the bottom of a salad-bowl, and 
removing the shrimps carefully from the bag in which they 
are, put into the can, take from them any bits of shell or 
specks of black that may mar them, taking care not to break 
their form, and pile these high upon the lettuce in the centre 
of the bowL 

Put the yolks of eggs into a small bowl, drop in upon 
them, drop by drop, the salad oil, and beat these to a thick 
cream, when the vinegar must be added, also the pepper 
and salt, and all stirred together until thoroughly blended. 

Pour this dressing over the shrimps, garnish around the 
sides and in the centre of the top with the pale, delicate 
inner leaves of lettuce, and serve. 

This salad must not be mixed at all until it is served at 
table, as to stir it destroys the fine appearance of the shrimps, 
which are so delicate as to be easily broken. 

Notes. — Mayonnaise dressing should invariably be stirred one 
way, as to reverse the current of the liquid causes it to curdle. If 
by accident curdling occurs, its smoothness may be recovered by 
dropping in the yolk of another egg, and paying strict attention to 
the rule for stirring. 

When fresh shrimps instead of the canned ones are used, a large 
sauce-pan of boiling water, in which have been placed salt, a little 
lemon-thyme, mint, and bay-leaf, should be prepared, and the 
shrimps plunged into this, confined in a wire-basket, and boiled 
until they change their colour, the length of time for which depends 
upon the size of the shrimps. 

Lobster Salad.— One quart of brown stock, one half 
ounce of gelatine, one table-spoonful of vinegar, one sprig of 
parsley, one tea-spoonful of pepper, two gills of cold water, 
whites of two eggs, one bay-leaf, one lobster, one ounce of 
butter, one table-spoonful of cream, one half tea-spoonful 



112 SALADS. 

of lemon-juice, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one grain of 
cayenne, one head of lettuce, two table-spoonfuls of salad 
oil, yolks of two eggs, one tea-spoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. 

The aspic jelly required for the preparation of this salad 
must be made the day before it is designed for use, in order 
that it may have time to become quite firm. It is to be 
prepared as follows : — 

Put the stock into a copper or porcelain-lined sauce-pan, 
and make it hot over a quick fire. While this is heating, 
soak the gelatine in half a gill of cold water. When the 
stock has come to a tepid degree of heat, put into it the 
table-spoonful of vinegar, parsley, bay-leaf, and soaked 
gelatine. Whip up the whites of egg in a bowl, and mix 
with it half a gill of cold water and a little pepper and 
salt. 

Pour this egg mixture into the stock, and stir all together 
rapidly with an egg-whisk or two forks until the stock boils. 
Cover the sauce-pan closely, and draw it aside from the fire, 
allowing its contents to simmer for ten minutes. Strain all 
through a clean towel into a bowl, and stand the jelly in a 
cool dry place to become finn. 

When the lobster has been boiled and becomes cold, twist 
off the head, which will be used in garnishing, and remove 
the coral, if possible, without breaking it. Place the coral 
upon a plate, and stand it where it may be exposed to heat 
sufficient to dry it rapidly, but neither bake nor brown it. 
Remove also the meat from the tail and claws of the lobster, 
and cut it into convenient pieces. 

Melt the butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it the flour, and 
add to it by degrees a gill of cold water. When this is boil- 
ing let it cook for two minutes thereafter rapidly, and take 
it from the fire, add to it the cream, the lemon-juice, cay- 
enne, and a little pepper and salt, also the pieces of meat 
from the lobster. 

When this is well mixed together it must be turned out 
upon a plate, and put in a cool place, and allowed to become 
quite cold. 



CUCUMBER SALAD. 113 

When cold, divide it into five portions, and form each one 
into a cutlet about three inches long. 

Wash the lettuce, dry the leaves carefully with a towel, 
and tearing it into irregular pieces, arrange them in the 
bottom of a salad-bowl. 

Mix in a separate bowl the yolks of egg and salad oil, 
which must be dropped upon the egg drop by drop, and 
when these are beaten to a cream, add thereto the tarragon 
vinegar. Pour this over the lettuce in the salad-bowl, 
sprinkle over all the remainder of the pepper and salt, and 
toss all lightly with a fork to distribute the dressing through 
the lettuce. 

Chop the aspic jelly now coarsely, and arrange a wall of 
it around the sides of the salad-bowl, taking care to keej) 
the centre clear, and within this wall place the lobster cut- 
lets in a circle. 

Into each of the cutlets stick one of the feelers from the 
lobster, rub the head with a little oil to brighten and bring 
out the colour, and place it in the centre of the dish. 

Take the dried coral, and either pound it lightly in a 
mortar or roll it fine upon a board with a rolling-pin, and 
sprinkle a little of this over each cutlet, and the remainder 
over the wall of jelly. 

Notes. — To boil lobeters, plunge them into boiling water in 
which a Uttle salt has been dissolved, and boil them for twenty 
minutes rapidly. 

A plain lobster salad may be made by following the directions 
for shrimp salad, by substituting the meat of the lobster cut in 
coarse pieces for the shrimps. 

Cacomber Salad. — Three medium-sized green cucumbers, 
two table-spoonfuls of salad oil, one table-spoonful of vine- 
gar, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of black 
jjepper. 

The cucumbers should be kept upon the ice until thor- 
oughly chilled, which renders them pleasantly brittle, after 
which they should be pared lengthwise, taking care to cut 
deep enough to remove all of the green inner skin, which is 

8 



114 SALADS. 

exceedingly Litter, and when pared slice them into round, 
thin slices. Arrange these slices in a mound in a shallow 
salad-bowl, and mixing together the pepper, salt, oil, and 
vinegar, pour this dressing over the cucumbers, and stir all 
together until the dressing is well distributed when serving. 

Note. — ^A tomato salad may be prepared in the same mamier, 
with this difference : a little sugar must be added to the ingredients 
for the dressing. 

Beef Salad. — One pound of rare roast beef, one quarter 
of a boiled beet, one table-spoonful of vinegar, three table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea- 
spoonful of black pepper, one head of lettuce. 

Wash the lettuce, each leaf separately, dry them thoroughly 
with a towel, taking care not to crush or wilt them, and re- 
serving the few delicate inner leaves for garnishing, tear the 
rest into irregular pieces, and arrange them in the bottom 
of a salad-bowL 

Cut the beef into small square pieces, slice the beet and 
cut it also into pieces ; mixing both lightly together, put 
them in a pyramidal shape upon the lettuce in the bowl, 
and sprinkle over all the pepper and salt. Mix together in 
a separate bowl the vinegar and oil, and when thoroughly 
blended, pour this dressing over the salad, and garnish at 
the top with the small lettuce leaves. 

Note. — ^A salad may be made of sliced cold tongue by following 
the above directions, and substituting the tongue for the cold roast 
beef. 

Lettuce Salad. — Two heads of lettuce, one dessert-spoon- 
ful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one table- 
spoonful of salad oil, three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, two 
hard-boiled eggs. 

Separate the leaves of the heads of lettuce, wash them 
carefully, and dry each leaf thoroughly with a towel, hand- 
ling them gently that they may be neither crushed nor 
wilted. Tear the leaves into pieces, and arrange them 



SALAD A-LA-RUSSE. 115 

lightly in a salad-bowl. Sprinkle over them the pepper and 
salt, and mixing the vinegar and oil together in a separate 
bowl, pour it, when well blended, over the salad, and stir 
all together at table when serving. Cut the hard-boiled 
eggs into quarters and garnish the dish with them. 

Notes. — Endive, eschalot, chiccory, water-cress, celery, and all 
green salads may be prepared as the lettuce salad is prepared. 
All green salads should have the material of which they are com- 
posed made very cold and crisp before dressing. 

If French dressing is preferred to the vinegar dressing, the pro- 
portions of vinegar and oil may be simply changed from the above 
given quantities to three table-spoonfuls of salad oil, one table- 
spoonful of vin^ar. 

Green salads should be stirred as little as possible before being 
sent to the table, in order that their freshness may be preserved 
imtil the moment of serving. 

Salad 'a-la-Busse. — One boiled carrot, one boiled turnip, 
two boiled potatoes, one-tliird of a head of fresh celery, one 
boiled beet, four olives, four anchovies, yolks of two eggs, 
one table-spoonful of vinegar, one tea-spoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of 
pepper. 

First pnt into a small bowl the yolks of eggs, and drop 
npon them the salad oil, drop by drop, beating this to 
a cream as the oil is dropped in. Stir in both the vinegar 
and tarragon vinegar, and season with a little of the 
pepper and salt. Cut the carrot, turnip, potato, and celery 
into small dice, arrange these dice in pyramidal form 
upon a flat platter, and pour over them the mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Cut the boiled beet into regular round slices, and place 
them around the dish, lapping one upon the other. At 
each comer place one of the four olives, around each of 
which must be twisted one of the anchovies ; sprinkle over 
all the remainder of the pepper and salt, and serve. 

Notes. — Hard-boiled eggs may be used for garnishing salads as 
the fancy or taste may dictate. 
Olives are frequently used in chicken, turkey, and lobster salad, 



116 CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

and for those who have a fondness for this relish they may be used 
at discretion. 

Potato salad may be made, if desired, with a simple vinegar 
dressing instead of the mayonnaise. 



CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

CROQUETTES. 

Potato Croquettes. — One pound of mashed potatoes, 
one ounce of butter, two table-spoonfuls of milk, one hair 
tea-spoonful of pepper, two eggs, four table-spoonfuls of 
bread crumbs, one grain of cayenne, one half tea-spoonful 
of salt. 

First melt the butter in a sauce-pan, add to it the milk, 
and bring them together to the boiling-point Pass the 
mashed potatoes through a sieve, and add them to the boil- 
ing milk and butter. Beat all well together until the 
potatoes are very hot, when the sauce-pan must be taken 
from the fire, the pepper, salt, and cayenne thrown in ; then 
drop in the yolks of eggs, and stir until the heat of the 
potato dries the egg. 

Boll this mixture into small balls, using a little flour to 
prevent it sticking to the hands, beat up the whites of the 
eggs and roll each ball therein. 

Place the bread crumbs upon a sheet of kitchen-paper, 
and putting the balls one by one into this, roll them from 
side to side until covered with the crumbs, when they must 
be put into hot clarified fat or lard and fried for two 
minutes. 

Note. — The yolks of egg are mixed with the potato in order to 
bind it together, and to give the croquette a rich yellow colour. If 
the whites were put in also, difficulty would be experienced in 
forming the croquettes, and Uie colour would not be so fine. 

Chicken Croquettes. — One half of a chicken, three 
ounces of butter, two ounces of cold tongue, seven ounces of 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES — RICE CROQUETTES. 117 

flour, one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg^ one tea-spoonful 
of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pe])i)er, the rind of one 
lemon, one lialf tea-spoonful of lemon- juice, one egg, six 
table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one half gill of cold 
water. 

First bone the chicken, remove the skin, and chop the 
meat very finely. Chop the tongue finely also, and mix it 
with the chicken. Flavour this with the lind of lemon 
grated and the nutmeg ; season with the pepper and nearly 
all of the salt. 

Place the flour into a bowl and rub into it the butter. 
When mixed, make a well in the centre of it, put into it the 
water, lemon- juice, and the remainder of the salt, knefuling 
all firmly together. KoU this paste out as firmly as possible, 
and cut it into rounds with a biscuit-cutter. 

Beat the egg until very light, and brush the edges of the 
rounds with it. Put into the centre of each round of paate 
as much of the mixed chicken and tongue as it will hold, 
when the edges must be gathered up and pinched firmly 
together. When filled, roll each of the croquettes first into 
ihe egg and then into the bread crumbs, and throwing 
them into hot clarified fat or lard, let them cook for five 
minutes. 

When done, take them from the fat, place them for a 
moment upon a piece of kitchen-imi)er to drain, arrange 
them neatly in a napkin folded in cup shape, and garnish 
with parsley. 

Rice CnxilietteB. — One quart of milk, three quarters of 
a pound of rice, three ounces of sugar, one tea-spoonful of 
lemon- juice, two eggs, four table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
oue half salt-spoonful of salt. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, put it into a sauce-pan, and pour 
over it the milk. Cover the sauce-pan closely, and putting it 
over the fire without having stirred the contents, let all 
simmer slowly for twenty minutes. At the end of this time 
remove the sauce-pan from the fire, stir in the yolks of eggs, 
lemon-juice, salt, and half of the sugar, beat all thoroughly 



118 CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

together, and turn out, when mixed, the compound into a 
bowl, and let it stand until it becomes thoroughly cooL 
When this mixture is quite cold, mould it into small equal- 
sized balls, beat the whites of egg until quite light, and dip 
the balls therein. 

Roll them in the bread crumbs, which must have been 
placed upon a sheet of kitchen-paper for this purpose, and 
throwing the croquettes from this into hot claiified fat or 
lard, let them fry for two minutes. 

When done, take them from the fat, place them upon a 
sheet of kitchen-pajjer to drain for a moment, and serve 
them in a folded napkin, with the remainder of the sugar 
sprinkled over them. 

Notes. — If it is preferred, these croquettes can be made without 
the sugar ; and if so done, a little more salt may be used. 

It must be observed that the rice is not to he stirred when boiled 
for this preparation, otherwise the grains will be broken .and the 
danger be incurred of its sticking fast to the bottom of the sauce- 
pan, and so scorching. 

Crab Croquettes. — Two crabs, three ounces of butter, 
three ounces of flour, one half pint of milk, one tea-spoonful 
of anchovy sauce, four table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one 
eggy one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one tea-spoonful of salt, 
one grain of cayenne. 

Throw the crabs into boiling water, and let them boil for 
fifteen minutes. Remove the meat from the shells and chop 
it coarsely. 

Melt the butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it the flour, and 
add to this by degrees the milk. When this is brought to 
the boiling-point, let it boil for two minutes thereafter, and 
take it from the fire. 

Throw into the sauce-pan the meat from the crabs, add to 
the mixture thus formed the cayenne, salt, pepper, and 
anchovy sauce, and when thoroughly mixed, turn it out upon 
a plate and allow it to cool. 

When quite cold, form the compound into small equal rolls 
three inches in length, beat the egg, and dip each roll therein. 



CROQUETTES OF SIIAD-KOE. 119 

after which they must be placeil upon the bread crumbs, 
which must be prepared upon a sheet of kitchen-paper for 
the purpose, and rolled therein from side to side until each 
croquette is blanketed with the crumbs. 

Drop them into hot clarified fat or lard, and fry them for 
two minutes ; taking them from the fat, drain for a moment 
upon a sheet of kitchen-paper, and serve them in a folded 
napkin, garnished with sprigs of parsley. 

Oroqnettes of Shad-Boe. — Four medium-sized shad-roes, 
two boiled potatoes, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, 
one gill of cold water, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one 
tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, two hard-boiled eggs, one raw 
egg, four table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs. 

Throw the roes into boiling water and boil them for 
twenty minutes. Take them from the water, drain them, and 
placing them in a bowl, separate them with a wooden spoon. 
Add to the roes the pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Place 
a sieve over the bowl, and rub through it the yolks of the 
hard-boiled eggs. Rub through upon this the potatoes; re- 
move the sieve, add the whites of the hard-boiled eggH, 
finely chopped, and the lemon-juice. 

Melt in a sauce-pan the butter, stir it into the flour, and 
the gill of water by degrees, and when this boils, pour it 
over the materials in the bowl, and stir all thoroughly to- 
gether. 

Fashion this mixture into small equal shapes resembling 
the shad-roes in miniature, beat the raw egg, and dip the 
croquettes into it, place the bread crumbs upon a sheet of 
kitchen-pa|)er, and roll them in turn in it, and putting them 
into hot clarified fat or lard, fry them for two minutes, after 
which they must be drained of any superfluous grease upon 
a sheet of kitchen-paper, and served in a folded napkin. 

Oroquettes of Salmon. — Three quarters of a pound of 
cold boiled salmon, five table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one 
and one-half ounce of butter, two eggs, one-half of a lemon, 



120 CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

one tea-spooiif ul of anchovy sauce, one half tea-spoonful of 
salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one salt-spoonful of 
grated nutmeg, one salt-spoonful of powdered mace. 

Shred the salmon with two forks, and remove from it the 
bones and skin. Place it when prepared into a bowl, and 
mix it with the bread crumbs. Melt the butter and pour it 
over this mixture, add thereto the pepper, salt, mace, and 
nutmeg, and beating all thoroughly together, squeeze over it 
the lemon-juice. 

Add to the compound the anchovy sauce and the two eggs, 
stir all again together, and form this into croquettes of equal 
size, about three inches in length, using a little flour upon 
the hands to prevent the mixture from sticking. 

Drop the croquettes one by one into hot clarified fat or 
lard, fry them for two minutes, then removing them from 
the frying-pan, drain them a moment upon a piece of 
kitchen-paper. Serve in a napkin folded in the form of a 
basket 



CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

FRITTERS. 

Potato Fritters. — Six boiled potatoes, three ounces of 
flour, one table-spoonful of salad oil, one gill of tepid water, 
one half tea-spoonful of white pepper, one tea-spoonful of 
salt, white of one egg. 

Put the flour into a bowl, mix with it the salt and pepper, 
pour into the centre the salad oil, and over this the tepid 
water, beating all well together. 

Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and add this to the 
mixture in the bowl, stirring very carefully in order not to 
break the froth. 

Quarter the potatoes, and dip each piece separately into 
the batter. Throw them into hot clarified fat, and let them 
fry three minutes. 

Remove them from the frying-pan, drain them of grease 



OYSTER FRITTERS — CHEESE FRITTERS. 121 

upon a sheet of kitchen-paper, and serve piled high in a 
vegetable dish. 

Notes. — All batters should be made an hour or two before using, 
adding the white of egg just at the moment of use, as the grains of 
flour soak and swell out by standing after being moistened, and so 
the batter becomes lighter. 

Parsnip fritters may be prepared with the same kind of batter 
used for the potato, but when parsnips are used they must be thor- 
oughly dried before being dipped into the batter. 

Oyster Fritters. — One dozen large oysters, four ounces of 
flour, one gill of milk, one half tea-spoonful of lemon- juice, 
two eggs, one dessert-spoonful of salad oil, one half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters, and dry them each 
thoroughly with a towel. Spread them out upon a plate, 
keeping them sis separate as possible, that they may develoj) 
no moisture from contact, while the batter is being prepared. 

Put the flour into a bowl, mix with it the pepper and salt, 
and making a little hole in the centre of this, drop into it 
the yolks of the eggs and the salad oiL Pour ovec the yolks 
of the eggs and the salad oil the milk by degrees, and mix 
the flour into it from the sides, taking care that it does not 
lump, then beat all smoothly together, and whipping the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix this lightly into the 
batter. 

Pierce the oysters through the ear with a skewer, and 
lifting them in this way, dip them one by one into the 
batter, and throwing them into hot clarified fat or lard fry 
them, allowing each oyster to remain in four minutes. 

Drain off such superfluous grease as may cling to them 
upon a sheet of kitchen-paper, and arranging the fritters in 
a hot napkin, spray over them the lemon- juice. 

Cheese Fritters. — Three ounces of flour, one egg, one 
gill of tepid water, one salt-spoonful of salt, one half tea- 
spoonful of pepper, three ounces of Parmesan cheese, one 
half tea-spoonful of dry mustard, one half ounce of butter. 



122 CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

Put the flour into a bowl, and melting the butter, pour 
this into the centre of it Add to this by degrees the water, 
beating all together meantime. Drop in the yolk of the egg, 
season with the pepper, salt, and mustard. Stir in also the 
grated cheese, and last of all the . white of the egg, which 
must first be whipped to a froth. Dip from this mixture 
table-spoonfuls, and drop them one by one into hot clarified 
fat or lard. As the fritters become firm and arise to the top, 
turn them over with a skewer that they may brown evenly 
all around. 

As soon ss they become brown, remove them from the 
fat^ and place them upon a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain 
for a moment, when they must be piled tastefully upon a 
hot napkin, and served garnished with sprigs of parsley. 

Note. — Any strong old cheese that is dry enough to grate may 
be used instead of the Parmesan cheese for these fritters. 

Apple Fritters. — Three large apples, three ounces of 
flour, one dessert-spoonful of salad oil, one ounce of sugar, 
one gill of tepid water, white of one egg. 

The apples must be very thinly pared and cored, leaving 
them whole. They must be cut around into slices about a 
third of an inch in thickness. 

Put the flour into a bowl, and pour into the centre thereof 
the salad oil. Over this pour the tepid water, and beat all 
well together. Beat the white of e^ to a stiff froth, and 
stir this into the batter very lightly, and when all is smoothly 
mixed, lift the slices of apple with a skewer, and dipping 
them into the batter, throw them one by one into hot 
clarified fat or lard, and fry them therein until the skewer 
will easily pierce them through, the time required for which 
depends upon the quality and kind of apple used. 

When done, drain them for a moment upon a sheet of 
kitchen-paper, and anunging them in a ciwle upon a flat 
dish, sprinkle the sugar thickly over them, and serve. 

Note. — Sugar should never be put into any kind of batter, as it 
tends to render it heavy. It is better to use it, as with these 
fritters, by sprinkling over when the dish is ready for serving. 



CORN FRITTERS — BANANA FRITTERS. 123 

Com Fritters. — Four ears of boiled maize, four ounces of 
flour, one gill of milk, two eggs, one half tea-spoonful of 
pepper, one tea-spoonful of salt 

First put the flour into a bowl, and dropping in the yolks 
of eggs, pour over them the milk, and mix in the flour from 
the sides while pouring on the milk. 

When all is smooth, season with the pepper and salt, 
whip the whites of egg to a stiff froth, and mix this with 
the batter very lightly. 

Cut the com from the cob and stir it into the batter; 
dipping the mixture from the bowl in large spoonfuls, drop 
them into hot clarified fat or lard, and fry until thoroughly 
brown, turning them constantly meantime, that they may 
brown evenly. Serve in a flat vegetable dish upon a hot 
napkin, having drained them for a moment upon a sheet of 
kitchen-paper after removing them from the frying-pan. 

Note. — Instead of using the com freshly cut from the cob, half 
of a quart of canned corn may be used, after being put on a sieve 
, or in a strainer and all liquor well drained from it. 

Bapiiana Fritters. — Four bananas, three ounces of flour, 
one dessert-spoonful of salad oil, one gill of tepid water, 
white of one egg. 

Put the. flour into a bowl, pour into the centre of it the 
salad oil, and add by degrees the water, mixing the flour in 
from the sides as the water is poured over. 

Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir it together 
with the mixture in the bowl very lightly. Take the skin 
from the bananas and split them into halves. 

Melt in a frying-pan three ounces of butter, and when the 
blue smoke arises therefrom dip the slices of banana into the 
batter, and placing them with the flat side downward into 
the frying'pan, baste them with the hot butter over the 
rounded sides until done to a nice light brown. 

When done, they must be removed from the frying-pan 
with a cooking shovel, in order that they may not be broken in 
lifting, as they become deliciously tender in process of frying. 

Serve upon a flat china fruit plate with fine sugar, if desired. 



124 SOUFFLES. 



SOUFFLES. 

Potato Souffl^. — Four large potatoes, one ounce of butter, 
one half gill of milk, one half tea-spoonful of white pepper, 
one half tea-spoonful of salt, yolks of three eggs, whites of 
four eggs. 

First scrub the potatoes well in cold water, and then put 
them to bake in a moderate oven for half or three quarters 
of an hour, which may be determined by testing the potatoes 
with a skewer, removing them from the oven when it will 
readily pierce through them. 

Cut off the tops of the potatoes when baked, and scoop the 
flour from them, taking care not to break the skins. Kub 
the potato flour through a sieve to make it perfectly smooth, 
and putting the butter into a sauce-pan, add to it the milk, 
pepper, and salt, and placing the sauce-pan over the fire, 
allow the milk to boil. 

When this boils, throw into it the potato flour, and stir 
all well together until the potato becomes hot. 

Take the sauce-pan from the fire and drop in the yolks of 
the eggs, stirring each one thoroughly together with the 
potato mixture before putting in the next, to prevent curd- 
ling. 

Put the whites of the eggs upon a plate, and whip them 
with a knife to a very stiff froth. Mix this into the com- 
pound in the sauce-pan, being careful not to break the froth, 
and when this is done, fill each of the potato skins two- 
thirds full of this mixture, place them upright in a baking- 
tin, and bake them in a quick oven from seven to ten 
minutes. 

The length of time required for the baking is determined 
by the heat of the oven, which should be quick; and the 
souffle may be pronounced done when the finger may be 
pressed upon the top of the stuffing of the potato skins and 
removed again without any of the mixture adhering. 

Serve on a small platter. 

Note. — Sometimes in preparing theae souffles there will be a 



LEMON SOUFFLE 125 

little of the potato-flour mixture left after the skins are sufficiently 
filled, and when this occurs, the remnant may be utilized by baking 
it in a greased cup. 

Lemon Souffle.— Two lemons, one pint of milk, two 
ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, one ounce of arrow- 
root, two ounces of sugar, yolks of four eggs, whites of five 
eggs. 

Grease a broad band of paper, and secure it with a piece 
of twine around the top of a quart souffle tin, in order that 
it may project and deepen the tin, and so prevent the souffle 
running over the sides as it rises. Grease the sides and 
bottom of the souffle tin. 

Cut from the lemon its thin yellow rind, and put it into a 
sauce-pan with a gill of the milk. Allow this to come to the 
boiling-point, and, drawing the sauce-pan aside from the fire, 
let its contents simmer slowly for five minutes. 

Put into a copper or porcelain-lined sauce-pan the butter, 
and stir into it, as it melts, the flour. Add the arrowroot 
and sugar, and by degrees the remainder of the milk. 

Stir this until it boils, and when boiling strain the lemon 
rind from the milk, and add the flavouring liquid to the 
mixture in the sauce-pan. 

Draw the sauce-pan aside from the fire, let it cool slightly, 
and drop into it, one by one, the yolks of eggs. Stir this 
well together, when the whites of the eggs must be put upon 
a plate and whipped to a stiff froth, and this also added to 
the contents of the sauce-pan, stirring lightly in order not to 
beat down the froth. 

Put this mixture quickly into the souffle tin, that the froth 
of egg may not fall ; place the tin into a deep sauce- pan con- 
taining sufficient boiling water to reach half-way up the 
sides of the tin ; cover the sauce-pan closely ; draw it to one 
side of the fire, and let the water simmer for three-quarters 
of an hour, taking care to keep the sauce-pan closely covered 
all the time, and so keep confined all the steam generated 
in which the souffle is being cooked. 

At the end of this time remove the souffle from the sauce- 



126 BOUFFL^. 

pan, cut from it the band of paper, transfer it to a silver 
souffle dish, or fold a napkin around the tin in which it is 
prepared, and serve immediately. 

If the dining-room be distant from the kitchen, the souffle 
should be carried in upon a hot shovel, otherwise it may be 
chilled, and so fall from its perfect state. 

Note. — Should it be desired, the souffle prepared as above may 
be divided and put into pint souffle tins, baking one and steaming 
the other. 

Vanilla Souffle.— One ounce of flour, one and one-quarter 
ounce of butter, one dessert-spoonful of sugar, one gill of 
milk, one half tea-spoonful of the essence of vanilla, yolks of 
three eggs, whites of four eggs, one table-spoonful of rasj)- 
berry jam, one half tea-spoonful of lemon- juice, one glass of 
sherry, six drops of cochineal. 

Grease a band of paper, and secure it around the top of a 
pint and a half souffle tin, in order to deepen the tin and 
keep the souffle in form as it rises. Grease the sides and 
bottom of the tin inside. 

Melt the butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it the flour, add 
to this the gill of milk, and stir all together until boiling. 
Draw the sauce-pan aside from the flre, throw into it the 
sugar and essence of vanilla, and drop in also one by one 
the yolks of eggs, stirring all thoroughly together. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this 
in also, taking care not to break the froth. 

Pour the mixture now into the souffle tin, which it should 
about two-thirds fill ; place the tin into a deep sauce-pan con- 
taining sufficient water to reach half-way up the sides of the 
mould, and, covering the sauce-pan closely, draw it aside 
from the fire and let the water therein simmer slowly for 
thirty minutes, keeping it always covered. 

Five minutes before this time expires, rub through a horse- 
hair sieve the jam, add to it the sherry and lemon-juice, also 
the cochineal, put all into a small sauce-pan ; place over the 
fire, and stir until the mixture boils. 

Draw it then from the fire. Bemove also the souffle from 



CHOCOLATE SOUFFLES OMELETTE SOUFFl£ 127 

the sauce-pan, cut the paper from it, and turn the soufl3^ out 
upon a hot, flat dish. Pour the sauce around it, and serve 
immediately. 

Note. — ^The lemon souffle may also if desired be served upon a 
hot platter, with the above sauce poured round it. 

Chocolate Souffles.— Three ounces of grated chocolate, 
one ounce of sugar, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, 
one gill of milk, yolks of three eggs, whites of four eggs. 

Grease and bind around a pint and a half souffle tin a 
band of paper to form a wall above the tin and confine the 
souffle aa it rises. Grease also the interior of the tin. 

Melt the butter in a small sauce-pan, stir into it the flour, 
and adding the milk stir all until boiling. When boiling, 
take the sauce-pan from the fire, throw into it the chocolate 
and the sugar, and drop in the yolks of the eggs one by one, 
stirring all meantime. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir this 
in this also, very lightly. 

Pour the mixture into the souffle tin, which should make 
it about two-thirds full, and place the tin into a deep sauce- 
pan containing sufficient water to reach half-way up the 
sides of the form. Cover the sauce-pan, and, drawing it 
aside from the fire, allow the water to simmer therein for 
thirty minutes, keeping it all the time covered. 

When steamed, take the souffle from the sauce-pan, trans- 
fer it quickly to a silver souffle dish, or fold around the tin 
in which it is prepared a napkin, and serve at once, carrying 
the dish upon a hot shovel if the dining-room be distant 
from the kitchen.' 

Omelette Souffle.— Yolks of two eggs, whites of three 
eggs, one tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, one tea-spoonful 
of essence of vanilla, one half ounce of butter, one grain of salt. 

First put into a small bowl the yolks of the eggs, together 
with the sugar and vanilla, and with a wooden spoon stir 
these until they come to a thick cream, which will take three 
or four minutes. 



128 80UFFI.S8L 

Put the whites of the ^gs upon a perfectlj dry plate, 
sprinkle over them the grain of salt^ and with a diy knife 
whip them to a verj stiff froth. 

Melt the batter in an omelette pan, taking care that it 
does not get hot 

Mix together the whites and the jolks of the eggs, pour 
this into the omelette pan, and pat the pan over the fire for 
one minute. 

Transfer the pan to a quick oven, and allow it to remain 
there for five minutes. 

Turn the souffle out quickly upon a hot platter, fold it 
evenly together, and serve at once. 

A table-spoonful of jellj or jam may be placed in the 
centre of the souffle when served, if desired. 

Notes. — Salt is added to the whites of eggs for the parpose of 
cooling them, and if in the slightest degree stale, to aid in bringing 
them more qtuckly and lightly to a froth. 

The whites of eggs must be whipped urx)n a dry plate and with 
a dry knife, as the slightest moistmv will prevent their coming to 
a froth, and unless the froth of egg be very stiff the omelette souffle 
will be made heavy by it and so spoiled. 

Cheese Souffle.— One ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, 
one gill of milk, one half tea-spoonful of white pepper, one 
half tea-spoonful of salt, one grain of cayenne, three ounces 
of grated cheese, yolks of three eggs, whites of four eggs. 

Melt the butter in a small sauce-pan and stir into it the 
flour, adding also the milk, and stirring all until boiling. 
Throw into the boiling mixture the pepper, salt, and cay- 
enne ; when removing the sauce-pan from the fire, the yolka 
of eg^ must be added together with the grated cheese, and 
the whole very thoroughly beaten together. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this 
in also, using care not to beat down the froth. 

Fill this mixture equally into small paper ramekins or 
cups, or into tin cups if more convenient, and bake them in 
a quick oven for ten minutes. Arrange the cups when the 
soufli^s are done upon a hot plate, and serve immediately. 



CHICKEN souffl£ 129 

If the tin cups are used, a napkin may be folded in basket 
shape upon the plate, and the tins placed in it. 

Chicken Souffl^— The breast of one raw chicken, one 
gill of cream, one egg, one half ounce of butter, one half 
ounce of flour, one salt-spoonful of white pepper^ one salt- 
spoonful of salt, two truffles. 

Take the skin from the breast of chicken, chop it finely, 
and pound it when chopped in a mortar. 

Melt the butter in a small sauce-pan, stir into it the flour 
and one table-spoonful of the cream. Let this boil, and, 
when boiling, take the sauce-pan from the fire and pour its 
contents over the chicken in the mortar, adding also one 

egg. 
Pound all weU together, and season with the pepper and 

salt. When pounded, pass the mixture through a sieve, 

and putting the remainder of the cream into a small bowl, 

beat it with a fork until it comes to a stiff froth ; mix this 

very lightly with the strained mixture, grease a few cup 

tins, and, cutting the truffles into stars, place one of these in 

the bottom of each tin. 

Fill the tins about half full with the mixture, and place 
them into a saut^ can half filled with boiling water ; cover 
them with a round of greased paper, and let them steam 
slowly for fifteen minutes. 

When done, turn the souffle out upon a hot platter, hav- 
ing the truffle stars uppermost, and serve at once. 

Note. — Any shallow pan will answer if a saut^ pan is not ayail- 
able, but care must be taken that the boiling water does not reach 
more than half-way up the sides of the cup tins. 

Ghestnnt Sonffl^— One pint of fresh chestnuts, one and 
one-half gill of milk, yolks of three eggs, whites of four 
eggs, one ounce of powdered sugar, one ounce of butter, one 
ounce of flour. 

Throw the chestnuts into boiling water, and boil them 
until the shells begin to crack open. Take them from the 
water, remove their shells and inner skins, pound them in a 

9 



130 PUDDIKQS. 

mortar, and make them perfectly smooth by passmg them 
through a sieve. 

Poor the milk over the chestnut flour, and stirring this 
together, put the mixture into a small sauce-pan and let it 
cook over a slow fire for ten minutes. 

At the end of this time melt the butter in a separate 
sauce-pan, stir into it the flour, and, when these are mixed, 
pour in with them the milk and chestnuts. 

The instant this boils take it from the fire, and adding 
the sugar and yolks of eggs, beat all well together. Whip 
the whites of eggs to a stifle froth, and stir this in lightly 
also, and, greasing a pint and a half souffle tin, pour into 
it the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. 

Serve in a silver souffle dish or in a folded napkin, and 
without any delay. 



PUDDINGS. 

Welcome Quest Pndding. — Eight ounces of bread 
crumbs, one half pint of milk, four ounces of beef suet, three 
ounces of citron, four ounces of sugar, rind of one lemon, 
three ounces of almonds, four eggs, one grain of salt 

Place four ounces of the bread crumbs into a bowl, and, 
bringing the milk to the boiling-point, pour it over them. 
Cover the bowl with a plate, and allow the bread crumbs to 
soak in the milk for ten minutes. 

While the bread crumbs are soaking, pour over the almonds 
some boiling water to blanch them and remove their skins. 

Bemove the skin from the suet and chop it very finely, 
and chop the almonds. 

Stir into the bowl with the soaked bread crumbs the 
four remaining ounces of crumbs ; add to this the chopped 
suet and almonds, also the grated rind of lemon together 
with the sugar and citron, which last must have been cut 
into very small pieces. 

Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs veiy care- 



PIG PUDDINO — ALBERT PUDDING. 131 

tally, drop the yolks one by one into the bowl, and stir all 
-well together. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, adding 
the grain of salt to cool and lighten it Mix this lightly 
also with the other ingredients in the bowl, and, taking a 
quart mould, dry it thoroughly, and greasinir the interior 
with butter, po^ into it the mixturf^lace securely 
over the top a greased sheet of kitchen-paper. 

Place the mould when filled in a deep sauce-pan containing 
enough boiling water to reach half-way up the sides, and let 
the pudding boil therein for two hours. 

When done, the mould should be removed from the boil- 
ing water ; allow two minutes for it to cool, and then turn 
the pudding out upon a hot platter. 

This pudding should be served either with a jam, wine, 
or lemon sauce, to prepare which see directions for sauces, 
pages 158 and 160. 

Fig Padding. — One half pound of figs, one half pound of 
bread crumbs, one half pound of sugar, one half pound of 
beef suet, three eggs. 

Bemove the skin from the suet, chop it very finely, put it 
into a bowl, and chopping the figs also very finely, mix both 
together. Stir into this the bread crumbs, beat in a separate 
bowl the eggs and sugar, mix this with the figs, suet, and 
bread crumbs, and, greasing the interior of a melon-mould, 
pour this mixture into it ; put on the cover, and, plunging 
it into a large sauce-pan of boiling water, let it with its con- 
tents boil for two houra 

When done, the pudding should be turned out upon a 
hot platter and served with wine or brandy sauce poured 
around it, for the preparation of which sauces see pages 160 
and 168. 

Albert Padding.— One quarter of a pound of butter, 
one quarter of a pound of fiour, one quarter of a pound of 
sugar, three eggs, rind of one lemon, two ounces of raisins. 

Grease well a pint and a half pudding-mould with butter. 



132 PUDDIN08. 

imd seeding the r»mm, stick them against the walla of the 
mould at intervals, so that thej may gamish the exterior of 
the pudding when done. 

Put the butter into a bowl, rub into it the sugar with the 
back of a wooden spoon, and if the weather is cold the butter 
will require to be warmed a little, care being taken that it 
does not oiL Add to this cream of butter and sugar, a little 
of the flour, and the yolk of one of the eggs. Stir all 
well together, and repeat this process until the flour and eggs 
are all used. 

Add to the mixture now the grated lemon rind, whip 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this in also, 
very lightly. 

By this time the butter with which the mould is greased 
will have cooled, and the pudding may be poured in, using 
a little care to avoid disarranging the raisins. 

When the mould is filled, cover its mouth with a piece of 
greased paper, and, sinking it half its length into a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, boil the pudding therein for an hour 
and a half. 

When the pudding is boiled, turn it out of the mould 
upon a hot platter, and pour around it a jam or lemon 
sauce, directions for making which will be found upon page 
158. 

Lowell Padding. — Four tea-cupfuls of flour, one tea- 
cupful of beef suet, one and one-half tea-cupful of sweet 
milk, one and one-half tea-cupful of sugar, one tea-spoonful 
of salt, one tea-spoonful of bi-carbonate of soda. 

Put the flour into a bowl, and removing the skin from 
the suet, chop it very finely, and mix it with flour. When 
these are well mixed, add the milk and sugar. 

Put the bi-carbonate of soda upon a plate, and make it 
smooth with the back of a spoon, add this with the salt to the 
other ingredients, and stir all very thoroughly together. 

Pour the pudding into a well-greased pudding-mould, and 
put on the cover, place the mould into a large sauce-pan, cover 
it with boiling water, and let it boil therein for three hours. 



AUNT Martha's pudding — cabinet pudding. 133 

When done, remove the mould from the boiling water, 
let it cool for a moment, and turn the pudding out upon a 
hot platter, and serve with a hard or wine sauce ; to pre- 
pare which, see pages 159 and 160. 

Annt Martha's Padding. — Six ounces of bread crumbs, 
one gill of milk, yolks of three eggs, whites of two eggs, one 
tea-spoonful of essence of vanilla, three ounces of sugar, one 
half dozen of preserved cherries. 

Grease a pint pudding-mould thoroughly inside with 
butter; stick into the bottom of it the preserved cherries, 
in order that they may garnish the top of the pudding. 

Put the milk into a small sauce-pan, and bring it to the 
boiling-point, and putting the bread crumbs into a basin, 
throw over them the boiling milk. 

Place in a separate bowl the yolks of eggs, and with them 
the sugar, and beat these well together. Whip the whites 
of the eggs into a stiff froth, and mix them lightly together 
with the yolks and sugar. Add to this the essence of 
vanilla, and mix this together with the soaked bread crumbs 
and milk, stirring all thoroughly. 

Pour the pudding now into the mould, cover the mouth 
of it with a piece of greased kitchen-paper, place the mould 
into a sauce-pan containing sufficient water to reach half- 
way up its sides, and boil the pudding therein for one hour 
and twenty minutes. 

When done, take the mould from the water, and letting 
it cool for a moment, turn the pudding out upon a hot 
platter, and serve with a jam sauce, the recipe for making 
which will be found upon page 168. 

Cabinet Pndding. — One dozen lady fingers, one ounce 
of ratifias, four eggs, one ounce of sugar, three ounces of 
stale cake, one pint of milk, one tea-spoonful of essence of 
vanilla, one dozen preserved cherries. 

Grease the sides and bottom of the interior of a pint and 
a half souffle tin. Arrange in the bottom of this the cher- 
ries, 80 that when the pudding is turned out they may 



134 PXJDDINO& 

garnish its top. Line the mould with the lady fingers, 
placing them perpendicularly around with their flat sides 
against the sides of the mould. Break up what remains of 
the lady fingers and throw the pieces into the centre of the 
mould. Crush the ratifias in the hand, and throw them 
in also, and upon this the stale cake, broken into small 
irregular pieces. 

Put the sugar into a bowl, and with it the eggs, beating 
these together until very light with a fork. When this is 
beaten, add to it the milk and vanilla ; pour this mixture 
into the mould slowly, letting it have time to soak into the 
cake, and so making room enough for all of the liquid. 

When filled, cover the mould with a piece of greased 
kitchen-paper, and standing it into a sauce-pan containing 
sufficient boiling water to reach half-way up the sides of the 
tin, allow the pudding to boil in this for one hour and 
twenty minutes. 

When done, remove the mould from the sauce-pan, let it 
cool a moment, and then turning the pudding out upon 
a flat pudding-dish, serve it immediately with a lemon sauce 
poured around, the directions for making which will be 
jfound among the sweet sauces, page 158. 

Lemon Padding. — Six ounces of flour, three ounces of 
butter, one half gill of cold water, one grain of salt, three 
lemons, three ounces of bread crumbs, five ounces of powdered 
sugar, one gill of cream, yolks of six eggs, whites of two 

eggs. 

Put the flour upon a mixing-board, and rub into it the 
butter with the hands. Add to this the grain of salt, and 
making a little well in the centre of the flour, pour into it 
the cold water, and knead all into a light dough. 

When kneaded, flour a rolling-pin and roll the dough out 
very thinly. Wet the edges of a vegetable dish with cold 
water, cut some strips from the paste three inches in width, 
and line with this the edge of the dish all around. Cut 
also from the dough some small lozenges about the size of a 
thimble top, and arrange these around the dish npon the 



SIR WATKIN Wynne's pudding. 135 

lining of dough, letting them slightly overlap each other in 
deBcribing the circle. 

Put the bread crumbs now into a bowl, and grate over 
them the rind of the lemona Add to this the sugar, and 
then squeeze over all the juice of the lemons. Drop into 
the bowl one by one the yolks of the eggs, beating the 
mixture well while dropping them. Pour the cream over 
all, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
this in also, very lightly, when the mixture should be poured 
into the vegetable dish, the dish be placed in a moderate 
oven, and the pudding baked for thirty minutes. 

Sir Watkin Wynne's Pudding.— Three ounces of beef 
suet, six ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces of sugar, two 
eggs, one and one-half table-spoonful of orange marmalade. 

Take the skin from the suet and chop it very finely. Put 
this when chopped into a bowl, and add to it the bread 
crumbs and marmalade. 

In a separate bowl place the sugar and eggs, beating them 
very lightly together, when this should be poured into the 
bowl with the suet^ bread crumbs, and marmalade, and 
mixed thoroughly together. 

Grease the inside of a pudding-mould with butter, pour 
the preparation into it, put on the cover of the mould, and 
putting this into a sauce-pan containing enough boiling 
water to cover it, boil the pudding therein for one hour 
and a half. 

When done, remove the mould from the sauce-pan and 
the pudding from the mould, and placing the latter upon 
a hot flat pudding-dish, pour around it, just before serving, 
a lemon sauce, to make which see directions on page 158. 

Bread and Bntter Pndding. — Four slices of bread, one 
half pint of milk, three eggs, one tea-spoonful of lemon- 
juice, two ounces of currants, two ounces of sugar, two 
ounces of butter. 

Remove the crust from the bread, and spread each slice 
with the butter. 



136 PUDDINGS. 

Grease with batter the inside of a deep pudding-dish, 
and place a slice of bread in the bottom thereof. Sprinkle 
over this a layer of currants, when a slice of bread should 
be placed upon the top of these, another layer of currants 
sprinkled over this, and repeating this process arrange all 
of the bread and currants into the dish. 

Beat together in a bowl until very light the sugar and 
eggs, add to these the milk and lemon-juice, and pour this 
mixture over the preparation in the pudding-dish. 

Let them stand for one hour, in order that the bread may 
absorb the liquid poured upon it, after which it must be 
baked in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

This pudding may be eaten with milk or cream. 

NoTBS. — Currants should always be washed long enough before 
required for use, to enable them to become perfectly dry, otherwise 
they will cause a pudding, or whatever they may be used in, to be 
both sticky and heavy. 

They must be dried by exposure to the sun and air, and not in 
an oven, as artificial heat hardens themi 

Llanberries Pudding. — One quarter of a pound of butter, 
one quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, one quarter of a 
pound of flour, two eggs, three table-spoonfuls of orange 
marmalade, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder. 

First put the butter into a bowl and beat it with the 
sugar to a cream. Stir into this a little of the flour and a 
little of the marmalade alternately, until the full quantity 
of each is stirred in. Drop into this mixture then the 
yolks of the eggs, sprinkle over these the baking-powder, 
and beat all thoroughly together. 

Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
this also into the bowl, taking care not to beat down the 
froth in the process. 

Grease with butter the inside of a pint and a half souffle 
tin, pour into it the padding, and bake in a moderate oven 
for one hour. 

Before placing the souffle tin into the oven, a band of 
greased paper should be arranged around the top of the tin, 



TAPIOCA PUDDING — OVERTON PUDDING. 137 

in order to keep the pudding from bursting over the sides 
should the heat of the oven cause it to rise quickly. 

When the pudding is done, it should be turned out upon 
a hot flat dish, and served with a custard sauce poured 
around it. The recipe for this sauce will be found on 
page 159. 

Tapioca Pudding. — ^Three ounces of tapioca, three gills 
of milk, one table-spoonful of sugar, two eggs, one salt- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Cover the tapioca with cold water twelve hours before 
the pudding is to be prepared, and let it soak in this until 
required. 

When about to use, drain the tapioca as thoroughly aa 
possible of the water, and when as dry as it can be made, 
put the tapioca into a sauce-pan, pour over it the milk, and 
placing it over the fire, stir slowly until the milk boils. 

Take the sauce-pan from the fire, place the eggs and 
sugar into a bowl, and beating them to a cream, pour this 
into the sauce-pan with the tapioca and milk. 

Grease with butter a deep pudding-dish, pour into it the 
pudding, sprinkle over the top the grated nutmeg, and put 
all to bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 

Overton Pudding. — Seven ounces of flour, three ounces 
of butter, one half tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one half 
gill of cold water, three table-spoonfuls of preserved straw- 
berries, three ounces of dry cake crumbs, one gill of milk, 
one tea-spoonful of essence of vanilla, three ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, one salt-spoonful of salt. 

First rub the cake crumbs through a coarse wire sieve 
into a bowl. Bring the milk to the boiling-point, and pour 
it over the crumbs, to which add also the essence of vanilla. 

Place upon a mixing-board the flour, and into this rub 
the butter with the hands, sprinkle over this the salt, make 
a hole in the centre of the flour, pour into it the cold water, 
and kneading from the edges into this, mix all to a light 
paste. 



138 PUDDINGS. 

Bub a little flour upon a rolling-pin, and with it roll out 
the paste to the thinness of a quarter of an inch, and cut 
from this ten lozenges about the size of a halfpenny. 

Cut ten smaller lozenges of about half the circumference 
of the first, and, brushing a small platter over with cold 
water, roll the remaining crust out to the proper size, and 
line the platter therewith. Wet the edges of the lining 
paste with a little cold water, and arrange around them, at 
equal distances, the larger lozenges. Upon these place the 
small lozenges, pressing them down in the centre with the 
tip of the finger; spread over the centre surface of the 
crust-lined platter the preserved fruit, over this spread the 
soaked cake crumbs, and sprinkle over all the sugar. 

Place the platter into a quick oven, and let the pudding 
bake therein for twenty-five minutes. Serve upon the 
platter on which the pudding is made. 

Wakefield Pudding. — Four slices of bread, four table- 
spoonfuls of raspberry jam, one ounce of sugar, one ounce of 
com starch, one half pint of milk, two eggs. 

Cut the crust from the slices of bread, and place one of 
them in the bottom of a deep pudding-dish. Spread over 
this a table-spoonful of the jam, and so arrange alternate 
layers of bread and jam, one upon the other in the dish, 
until the given quantities of each are filled into it 

Put the com starch and sugar into a bowl, and moistening 
them with a table-spoonful of the milk, mix these together. 
Drop into this mixture the eggs, and beat all with a fork 
imtil very light 

Put the remainder of the milk into a small sauce-pan over 
the fire, and when it boils pour it over the mixture in the 
bowl, stirring all the time while pouring. Pour the liquid 
preparation now over the bread and jam in the pudding- 
dish, and placing the pudding-dish into a quick oven, bake 
its contents for half an hour. Serve in the dish in which 
the pudding is prepared. 

yjTi glitth Plnm Pndding. — One half pound of bread 



AMBER PUDDING. 139 

crumbs, one half pound of beef suet, one half pound of 
flour, one half pound of sugar, one half pound of raisins, 
one half pound of currants, one tea-spoonful of powdered 
cinnamon, one tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, one quarter 
pound of citron, rind of one lemon, one gill of milk, four 
eggs, one half tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one quarter of 
a nutmeg. 

Chop the suet, after taking off the skin very finely, and 
put it together with the flour and bread crumbs into a large 
bowl. Seed the raisins, wash and dry the currants thor- 
oughly, and mix these together, grate the lemon rind and 
the nutmeg over them, and adding the ginger and cinnamon, 
mix all thoroughly together. 

Stir the fruit mixture into the bowl with the suet, add to 
this compound the sugar, baking-powder, and citron, which 
must be cut into small thin pieces ; in a separate bowl beat 
the eggs imtil very light, add to them the milk, and when 
these are thoroughly blended, pour the liquid over the pre- 
paration in the large bowl, and stir all well together. Grease 
a quart pudding-mould with butter, put the pudding into it 
and shut the cover securely over it, then plunging the 
mould into a large sauce-pan filled with boiling water, let 
the pudding boil therein for four hours. 

When done, the pudding should be turned out upon a hot 
platter, and served with brandy sauce; to prepare which 
directions will be found on page 158. 

Note. — ^Flum puddings are prettier when boiled in a mould ; but 
the traditional plum pudding is boiled in a double pudding-cloth 
greased with butter for the purpose, and served with plain brandy 
poured over and around it, which is fired, and the pudding so en- 
veloped in the historical blaze of glory. 

Amber Pudding. — ^Two pounds of apples, six ounces of 
flour, three ounces of butter, one gill of cold water, four 
eggs, rind of one lemon, three ounces of sugar, one half 
tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one grain of salt 

Pare, quarter, and core the apples. Put into a small 
sauce-pan two ounces of sugar and half of the cold water, 



140 puDDiNoa 

and place this over the fire ; when it boils, put into it the 
apples and the lemon rind. Cover the sauce-pan, and let 
its contents simmer very slowly, until the apples are cooked ; 
and while they are cooking, mix together upon a mixing- 
board the flour and butter, add to this the baking-powder 
and salt, and knead all to a light dough with the remaining 
cold water. 

Boll this dough out very thinly, cut it into strips about 
three inches wide, and wetting the edges of a pudding-dish 
with cold water, line them with the strips of dough ; also 
cut some small lozenges from the fragments of dough re- 
maining, and place them ornamentally around on the rim 
of dough. 

Take the apples from the sauce-pan, and pouring them 
into a sieve, rub them through it, in order to make them 
perfectly smooth. 

Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, dropping 
the yolks into the apples, and putting the whites upon a dry 
plate. Stir the apples and yolks of eggs together, and pour 
these, when blended, into the pudding-dish. The pudding- 
dish must be placed in a quick oven, and allowed to remain 
ten minutes, to bake the paste and cook the eggs ; and while 
this is being done whip the whites of eggs to a very sti£f 
froth, and when the pudding is taken from the oven pile 
this froth upon the top of the apple very high, and smooth 
it over with a knife blade. Sprinkle over this the remainder 
of the powdered sugar, and return the dish to the oven for 
two minates, that the froth of egg may set and brown 
slightly on the surface. Serve this pudding hot. 

Venoise Pudding. — Five ounces of wheat bread, four 
ounces of sugar, three ounces of sultana raisins, two ounces 
of citron, one glass of sherry, one half pint of milk, yolks of 
four eggs, one tea-spoonful of essence of vanilla. 

Cut the bread into dice and place it into a large bowl 
with three ounces of the sugar. Cut the citron in small 
thin pieces, and put these also into the bowl. 

Place the raisins upon a towel, and folding the ends of it 



RAILWAY PUDDING. 141 

over them rab them therein until the stems are all sepa- 
rated, and adhering to the cloth ; then the raisins must be 
picked out and thrown into the bowl with the rest, and the 
sherry pottred over alL 

Put the remaining ounce of sugar into a small sauce-pan 
over the fire and let the sugar brown. Pour the milk over 
the sugar when brown, and drawing the sauce-pan aside 
from the fire, stir the milk until the sugar dissolves and 
colours it. Drop the yolks of eggs into a small bowl, and 
over these pour the coloured milk, stirring all together as 
the milk is poured in. 

Over the dry preparation in the large bowl pour the liquid 
from the small bowl, grease a proper sized pudding-mould, 
and into this put the pudding ; secure over the top a greased 
piece of kitchen-paper, place the mould into a sauce-pan 
containing sufficient boiling water to reach half-way up its 
sides, and allow the pudding to boil therein for one hour 
and a half. 

When done, turn the pudding out upon a hot platter, and 
serve with a German sweet sauce poured around. (See 
page 158.) 

Railway Pndding. — One tea-cupful of powdered sugar, 
one tea-cupful of flour, one ounce of butter, one dessert- 
spoonful of baking-powder, three eggs, one half dozen drops 
of essence of almonds, one table-spoonful of milk. 

Grease thoroughly with the butter the inside of a bread- 
tin. Mix together in a large bowl the flour and sugar, and 
add to these, when mixed, the baking-powder. 

Break the eggs into a small bowl, and beat them until 
very light, pour in with them the milk, drop into this the 
essence of almonds, and when these are well stirred together 
pour all over the preparation in the large bowl. 

Now stir all together, and when this is done pour the 
mixture into the bread-tin, and placing this in a very quick 
oven bake it for ten minutes. 

When baked, take the pudding from the oven, cut it into 
six or eight equal pieces, and arranging these upon a flat 



U2 



PUDDING& 



dish, sprinkle over them a little powdered sugar. A wine 
sauce should be sent to the table with this, to be poured in 
ladlefuls over the pieces of pudding as they are served. (See 
" Sauces,'* page 160.) 

Notes.— This pudding should be put into the oven immediately 
after it is mixed. The baking-powder begins to ferment the in- 
stant that it is moistened, and it is this process which must be 
taken advantage of in baking quickly, to raise the pudding and 
make it light. 

This pudding may also be used as a tea-cake, and when so served 
the pieces should be split open and a spoonful of preserved fruit 
spread between the slices. 

Ohocolate Padding. — One quarter of a pound of grated 
chocolate, one pint of milk, one half ounce of gelatine, two 
ounces of sugar, one tea-spoonful of essence of vanilla, yolks 
of four eggs, one half gill of cold water. 

Cover the gelatine with the cold water, and allow it to 
soak therein for ten minutes. Place the gelatine, when dis- 
solved, into a small sauce-pan, put it over the fire, and stir 
slowly until melted, taking care that it does not boiL 

When melted, take the sauce-pan from the fire and allow 
the gelatine to cool a little. 

Mix together the milk and grated chocolate until they 
come to a smooth paste, then, in a fresh sauce-pan, stir the 
mixture over the fire until boiling. Drop the yolks of eggs 
into a bowl, cover them with the sugar, and pour over all 
the hot chocolate mixture. 

Betum this compound to the sauce-pan, place it over the 
fire and let its contents cook for two minutes, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent boiling. 

Bemove the sauce-pan at the end of this time from the 
fire, stir into the mixture it contains the melted gelatine, 
and drop in the essence of vanilla. 

Dip a pint and a half mould into cold water, to wet it 
inside, and so prevent the pudding sticking; pour into 
it the pudding, and set it away in a cool, dry place, until 
the gehitine congeals and the pudding has ''set" in the 



ITALIAN PUDDING APPLE DUMPLINGa 143 

mould; and when this has taken place turn the pudding 
out upon a crystal dish and serve. 

Italian Padding. — One-half of a quart can of preserved 
peaches, four table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, two eggs, one gill 
of milk, one tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, two ounces of sugar. 

Arrange upon a flat dish a layer of the peaches, cover 
this with a blanket of the bread crumbs, and in this way 
arrange alternate layers of the fruit and bread crumbs until 
the specified quantity be used. 

Put the yolks of the eggs into a bowl, and with them one 
ounce of sugar, bring the gill of milk to the boiling-point, 
and pouring this over the yolks of eggs and sugar, stir all 
together, and throw into the mixture the lemon-juice. 

Pour this liquid over the fruit and bread crumbs by spoon- 
fuls, in order that it may be absorbed thereby, and the pre- 
paration so become moistened but not juicy ; when this is 
done place the pudding in a moderate oven and bake it for 
half an hour. At the end of this time take the pudding 
from the oven, beat the whites of the eggs to a light froth, 
and pile this roughly upon the top of it. Sprinkle over 
all the remaining ounce of sugar, place the dish once more 
in the oven for five minutes, to firm the froth of egg and 
brown it also slightly. Serve at once. 

Note. — This pudding may also be made with preserved apples 
or pears, as taste or oonvenience may dictate. 

Apple Dumplings. — Five apples, twelve ounces of flour, 
four ounces of butter, one ounce of sugar, one tea-spoonful 
of baking-powder, one and one-half gill of cold water, one 
salt-spoonful of salt 

Rub this flour and butter together in a bowl, add to 
them the baking-powder and the salt, and with the cold 
water mix all to a firm dough. 

Place this dough upon a mixing-board, and cut it into 
five equal pieces. 

Pare the apples now very thinly, and take from them 



144 PUDDINGS. 

their cores, leaving the form of the apple unbroken. Boll 
the dough into balls, and taking an apple, work it into the 
centre of a ball of the dough, and just before closing the 
ball so formed at the top, put into the place of the apple 
cores a portion of the sugar. 

When the apples are all prepared in this way with the 
dough and sugar, place them into a baking-tin, and the 
baking-tin into a quick oven for half an hour. 

At the end of half an hour test the dumplings with a 
skewer, and if the apples be not soft to the centre they 
must remain in the oven until the skewer proves them 
entirely done. 

When done take them from the oven, brush each over with 
a little milk, sprinkle them with a little sugar, and return 
all to the oven for one minute, and serve them with a hard 
sauce, directions for making which will be found on page 159. 

Swiss Eissoles. — One half pound of pears, one quarter 
pound of raisins, two ounces of sugar, eight ounces of flour, 
four ounces of butter, one egg, one half gill of cold water, 
one half of a lemon. 

First pare and core the pears, cut them into small pieces, 
squeeze into a sauce-pan the juice of the lemon, add to it 
half of the cold water and an ounce and a half of the sugar, 
and placing the sauce-pan over the fire, let its contents come 
to the boiling-point ; when boiling, throw into it the pears, 
also the raisins, and let them cook therein very slowly for 
half an hour. 

When done, turn the mixture out upon a plate. When 
quite cool, make up a crust by mixing upon a board the 
flour and butter; make a hole in the centre of this, into 
which drop the yolk of the egg, pour over the remaining cold 
water, and knead all lightly together. 

Eoll this out to about an inch in thickness, and cut it 
into pieces about four inches square. Beat the white of the 
egg lightly, and brush the edges of the crust with it ; put into 
each of these squares an equal quantity of the cold mixture 
from the plate, fold the edges together, brush over each a 



PEACH-SAGO — CORN-STARCH PUDDING. 145 

little of the white of egg, sprinkle over each a little of the 
sugar, and placing the rissoles upon a slightly-floured baking- 
tin, bake them in a moderate oven for half an hour. Serve 
in a folded napkin. 

Peach-Sago. — One quart of peaches, one half pound of 
sago, three ounces of sugar, one pint of cold water. 

Put the sago into a pudding-dish, cover it with the cold 
water, and allow it to soak therein for two hours ; and when 
the sago is sufficiently soaked, skin and stone the peaches, 
place them regularly upright in the sago, sprinkle over all 
the sugar, and placing the pudding-dish into a moderate 
oven, let the pudding bake for one hour. Serve hot. 

Com-Starcli Pudding.— Four table-spoonfuls of corn- 
starch, one quart of milk, two ounces of sugar, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, two bay-leaves, two eggs. 

Put the milk into a sauce-pan over the fire, and while it 
is heating moisten the corn-starch with a little cold milk, 
and beat it smooth. Just before the milk reaches the boil- 
ing-point, crush the bay-leaves in the hands, that the flavour 
may be more readily drawn out, and throw them into the 
milk, after which stir in the corn-starch ; stir all constantly 
until boiling, and when boiling allow this to continue for five 
minutes, still stirring to prevent scorching, which the corn- 
starch and milk are both apt to do. 

Draw the sauce-pan then aside from the fire to let its con- 
tents cool a little, and in the time allowed for this beat 
together the eggs and sugar, add to the sugar and eggs the 
salt, and removing the bay-leaves from the mixture in the 
sauce-pan, stir into it the sugar and eggs ; after which all 
must be poured into a small pudding-dish, and this be 
placed in a moderate oven and permitted to bake for ten 
minutes. This pudding should be served hot. 

Note. — Corn-starch blanc-mange may be prepared exactly as is 
the above pudding, except that the eggs must be left out ; and in- 
stead of being baked, the preparation must be poured into moulds 
and allowed to stand in them until cooled into forms. This blanc- 
mange is served with jam or jelly and sweet cream. 

10 



146 PUDDINGS. 

Pancakes. — Three ounces of flour, two eggs, one half pint 
of milk, one ounce of sugar, one salt-spoonful of salt, one- 
half of a lemon, three ounces of butter. 

Put the flour into a large bowl, in the centre of this make 
a little well, into which drop the yolks of the eggs, sprinkle 
over these the salt, and pouring in upon this h'ttle by little 
the milk, mix the flour into the centre from the sides until 
all the milk is added and the flour thoroughly mixed with 
the other ingredients, the yolks of eggs thus helping to pre- 
vent the flour lumping through the small percentage of oil 
which they contain. 

Whip the whites of eggs now to a stiff froth, and stir this 
lightly into the batter; and when this is done melt one- 
fourth of the butter in a frying-pan, pour into this one- 
quarter of the batter from the bowl ; and when this browns 
upon one side, turn it over with a pancake shovel or broad- 
bladed knife, taking care not to break the cake in the 
process. 

When the second side is browned also, remove the cake 
to a plate, sprinkle it with a little of the sugar, squeeze 
over this a few drops of the lemon-juice, roll the pancake 
quickly into a round roll, sprinkle over the top a little more 
of the sugar and a little more of the lemon-juice, and place 
it upon a platter to keep hot while the others are being 
fried. 

Divide the remaining batter into three equal parts, and 
in the manner above described pour into the frying-pan, fry 
and turn each portion until the three other pancakes are 
sugared, sprinkled with the lemon-juice, rolled and placed 
beside the first, when they may be arranged in the fashion 
of a cob-house, or as the fancy may direct, upon the hot 
platter. They should be served at once. 

NoTB. — This batter may also be fried in smaller sized cakes, and 
served, well buttered and very hot, as a breakfast dish. 

Bice Pudding. — One and one-half pint of milk, one half 
pound of rice, two ounces of sugar, one half tea-spoonful oi 
salt, one egg, one ounce of butter. 



SNOWDEN PUDDING. 147 

Grease a deep pudding-dish thoroughly inside with the 
butter^ and pour into this the milk, into which stir the dry 
rice. 

Cover the dish with a plate, to confine the steam and pre- 
vent premature browning on the top should the oven be 
very hot, and placing all in a moderate oven let the pudding 
bake slowly for an hour and a half, by which time the 
kernels of rice will have soaked, and swelling, absorbed 
nearly all of the milk, leaving the grains beautifully whole 
and the pudding devoid of the glutinous paste which by 
stirring processes is developed from the starch-flour of the 
broken rice. Ten minutes before removing the pudding 
from the oven beat the egg until very light, add to it the 
sugar and salt, and taking the plate off the pudding-dish 
stir this mixture into the pudding, and allow to bake for the 
remaining ten minutes uncovered, that it may brown on the 
surface. Serve with hard sauce, directions for making 
which may be found on page 159. 

Note. — This pudding may be further enriched by the addition 
of a quarter of a pound of raisins ; or, if desired more plain than as 
above, the egg may be omitted, and the sugar alone stirred in when 
the puddmg is uncovered to permit its browning. 

Snowden Padding. — One breakfast-cupful of suet, one 
breakfast-cupful of bread crumbs, one breakfast-cupful 
of sugar, two eggs, one wine-glassful of sherry, one lemon. 

When all skin and any discoloured part has been removed 
from the suet, chop it very finely. Measure one breakfast- 
cupful after it has been chopped, throw it into a bowl, also 
the sugar. Hub through a wire sieve the bread crumbs, add 
the other ingredients, and mix all well together. Wipe now 
well in a clean towel the lemon, and grate the thin yellow 
rind into the bowl, cut the lemon in two pieces, and 
squeeze all of the juice into the bowl also. Whip in a small 
bowl the eggs, and when very light moisten the mixture in 
the larger bowl with them. When well blended pour over 
the sherry. Grease well a mould, and garnish the bottom 
and sides with raisins or dried cherries, pour in the pudding 



148 PUDDINGS. 

mixture, tie over the mould a double pudding-cloth, or 
coyer it with the tin cover, jAajce the mould in a large pan 
of boiling water, and boil for five hours. 

When the pudding is turned out, pour round it a white 
sauce. (See page 160.) 

Alma Pudding. — One quarter pound beef suet, one 
quarter pound bread crumbs, one quarter pound sugar, six 
ounces candied peel, one half pound pot apricot jam, rind of 
one lemon, yolks of four eggs, white of one egg. 

Skin, chop, and weigh one quarter pound suet, mix well 
with it in a bowl the sugar and bread crumbs, which must 
be prepared as in last receipt Beat in a small bowl the 
yolks of egg, and mix well with them the jam, and grate 
over them the lemon-rind, whip the white of egg to a very 
stiff froth, and mix it in also. 

Remove all sugar from the peel, cut it into very small 
pieces, add it to the dry ingredients in the large bowL 

Mix now the contents of both bowls well together, pour 
the mixture into a well-greased mould, and steam for foui* 
hours. 

Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and pour round it 
a (xerman sweet sauce. (See page 159.) 

Note. — ^Directionfl for steaming this pudding will be found on 
page 64. 

Marrow Padding. — One pound beef marrow, one pint 
cream, one penny roll, four eggs, one wine-glassful of 
brandy, three ounces sugar, sixth part of a grated nutmeg. 

Take a very stale roll and grate it into crumb, place it in 
a bowl, and pour over it the cream, which must first be 
placed in a sauce-pan and brought to boiling-point 

Cut the marrow into very thin pieces, add it to the cream 
and crumbs in the bowl, then mix in the sugar and nut- 
meg. 

Beat in a separate bowl with a fork the eggs ; when very 
light pour them over the other ingredients; when well- 
mixed pour over the brandy. 



FRENCH PUDDING MARMALADE PUDDING. 149 

Grease well a mouldy pour in the mixture, and boil for 
three quarters of an hour. 

French Pudding. — Eight ounces sugar, four ounces corn- 
flour, one quart milk, four eggs, one pinch salt. 

Place in a sauce-pan the milk and allow it to boil ; when 
the milk is heating, place in a bowl the corn-flour, and drop 
into it, one by one, the yolks of egg. 

Beat well together the yolks of egg and corn-flour, and 
the instant the milk boils pour it over, stirring well all the 
time ; when well mixed add half of the sugar and salt, and 
return all to the pan in which the milk has been boiled. 
Place the pan again on the fire, and stir the contents until 
the eggs and corn-flour begin to thicken, but do not let the 
mixture boiL Pour now the mixture into a pie-dish and 
put it on one side. 

Place on a dry plate the whites of eggf add a very little 
salt, and with a dry knife whip the whites to a very stiff 
froth, then add by degrees the remainder of the sugar. 

Spread the whites of egg and sugar over the mixture in 
the pie-dish, and place the dish in a moderate oven from 
seven to ten minutes. This pudding may be eaten either 
hot or cold. 

NoTB. — This pudding may be flavoured with fresh lemon-juice if 
desired. 

Marmalade Padding. — One quarter pound suet, one 
quarter pound bread crumbs, one quarter pound sugar, two 
ounces ground rice, two ounces orange marmalade, two 
eggs. 

Place on a board the suet, remove all skin and discoloured 
parts ; chop very finely, and place it in a bowl with the 
ground rice and sugar. 

Over a sheet of paper put a wire-sieve, and rub through 
with the hands the necessary quantity of bread crumb ; add 
this crumb to ingredients in the bowl. 

Whip now with a fork in a separate bowl the eggs, and 
then with them the marmalade, pour all the ingredients to- 



150 PUDDINGS. 

gether, and when thoroaghlj blended pour into a grease<l 
mould, and steam for four hours. 

Follow the directions for greasing the mould and also for 
cooking given for Plain Suet Pudding, page 154 

Ginger Padding. — Six ounces flour, one quarter pound 
moist sugar, one quarter pound suet^ one tea-spoonful ground 
ginger. 

Mix well in a bowl the sugar and flour, and add to them 
the suet previously very finely chopped, add the ginger, and 
mix all thoroughly together. 

Grease well a mould, and press firmly this mixture into 
it, put on the cover of the mould, or double a pudding-cloth, 
dip it in boiling water, and tie it firmly over. Put the mould 
into a laige pan of boiling water, and boil for three hours. 

Seven-Cup Padding. — One cupful of suet, one cupful of 
flour, one cupful of bread crumbs, one cupful of currants, 
one cupful chopped apples, one cupful milk, one cupful 
sugar, two ounces chopped almonds, one tea-spoonful car- 
bonate of soda, one half tea-spoonful of ground ginger, one 
half tea-spoonful ground cinnamon, one half tea-spoonful 
mixed spice. 

Chop very finely the suet, and place it in a bowl with the 
flour, bread crumbs, chopped apples, and sugar. 

Wash well and dry well in a towel the currants, and add 
them to the other ingredients, also the ginger, cinnamon, 
mixed spice, and chopped almonds. 

Place the soda on a plate and smooth out the lumps with 
the point of a knife, add it then to the other ingredients, 
and moisten all well with the milk. 

When all these quantities are well mixed, put the mixture 
in a well-greased mould, and boil for three hours. 

Family Dampling. — One pound flour, one half pound 
suet, one breakfast-cupful jam, one breakfast-cupful milk, 
one half tea-spoonful soda, one pinch salt 

When the skin and any discoloured part are removed from 



Ml^RINGUE PUDDING. 151 

the suet place it on a board, and when it is finely chopped 
place it in a bowl with the flour, and sprinkle in the soda 
and salt. 

Add now by degrees the jam and milk, stir thoroughly 
together, taking care that the flour does not lump. 

Dip a pudding-cloth now in boiling water, sprinkle over 
it a little dry flour, place it over a bowl, pour into the 
centre the pudding mixture, tie it into a ball with a piece of 
stout twine. Have in readiness a large pan filled with boil- 
ing water, add to it a table-spoonful of salt ; place in the 
bottom of the pan a small plate, put in the dumpling, cover 
the pan closely, and boil for two hours. 

NoTB. — The pudding-cloth is placed over the bowl to give the 
mixture a round shape when placed in the cloth; the plate is 
placed in the pan to prevent the pudding-cloth getting burned. 

Mtfringne Padding. — One half quart canned peaches, two 
ounces butter, one quarter pound sugar, one and one-half 
ounce corn-flour, one quart milk, three eggs. 

Place in a bowl the corn-flour, and pour over sufficient 
milk to moisten it ; bring the remainder of the milk to the 
boiling-point, and pour into it the moistened corn-flour. 
Allow the milk and corn-flour to boil for five minutes, re- 
move them from the fire, and stir in the butter. 

When the butter is melted, drop in one by one the yolks 
of eggj sprinkle in half of the sugar, and beat all well to- 
gether until quite smooth. 

Place in a pie-dish the canned peaches, and pour the 
above mixture over, place the pie-dish in the oven, and bake 
twenty minutes. 

Beat with a knife on a dry plate the whites of egg, and 
when very stifif and white sprinkle over them the remainder 
of the sugar. When the ingredients in the pie-dish have 
baked twenty minutes, pour over them the whites of egg 
and sugar, and allow the pudding three minutes longer in 
the oven. This pudding ought to be served cold. 

Note. — ^Fresh fruit may be substituted for the canned peaches ; 
but when this done a little more sugar must be used. 



152 PUDDING& 

Gream Padding: — One quarter poand batter, two table- 
spoonfuls arrowroot, one quart milk, four eggs, two ounces 
sugar, one salt-spoonful grated nutmeg. 

Place in a bowl the arrowroot, and moisten it with a little 
milk, stir till very smooth, add to it the nutmeg, and break 
into it the butter in small pieces. 

Place now the remainder of the milk in a pan, and allow 
it to come quickly to the boiling-point ; pour it at once over 
the moistened arrowroot and butter, and mix well together 
until the butter is melted. 

Break now into a separate bowl the eggs, add the sugar, 
and beat them with a fork until the eggs are very light. 

Mix all the ingredients well together and pour them into 
a pie-dish, place the dish in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. 

Bic6 M^ringne. — One half tea-cupful rice, one quart 
milk, three ounces sugar, four eggs. 

Place the rice in a strainer, and placing the strainer under 
the water-tap, allow the water to run through it for two or 
three minutes ; this will remove from the rice all dust and 
also any flour from the grains. Put the rice in a stew-pan, 
pour over the milk, and placing the pan over a very slow 
fire, allow the milk to simmer very slowly for three hours. 
During this time do not stir the contents of the pan, but 
shake the pan occasionally to prevent the rice settling to 
the bottom. 

At the end of three hours pour the rice and milk into a 
bowl, and when half cold add half of the sugar and the 
yolks of eggs, which must first be well beaten. 

Stir all these ingredients well together, and pour them 
into a pie-dish, place in a moderate oven, and bake twenty 
minutes. While this is baking whip the whites of egg on a 
dry plate to a stiff froth, add to them what remains of the 
sugar, and pour them over the baked rice. 

After the whites of egg are poured over, allow the 
meringue to remain in the oven till the eggs have a pale 
brown colour. 



OLACE PUDDING COLD CABINET PUDDING. 153 

Glactf Pudding. — One ounce gelatine, one half pound 
sugar, one quart cream, one half gill milk, one cupful rum, 
oue cupful strawberry jam, three eggs. 

Soak the gelatine in the milk for ten minutes, pour them 
into a small sauce-pan, and stir over a slow fire until the 
gelatine melts. 

Place now in a jug the cream, add the sugar and eggs; the 
latter must first be well beaten. 

Put the jug into a large pan of boiling water, and stir 
well the eggs, cream, and sugar together until the eggs 
thicken. Take the jug from the water, and when the 
custard in it is quite cold, pour into it the rum, stirring well 
meanwhile. 

Add now the melted gelatine, also the jam, mix all well 
together, and pour into a mould to firm. 

The mould must first be dipped into cold water before 
the mixture is poured in. 

Note. — Brandy or sherry may be used instead of rum, but the 
rum is preferable. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding. — Six stale sponge-cakes, one gill 
sherry, one tea-spoonful essence of vanilla, two ounces gela- 
tine, one quart milk, yolks of four eggs, whites of two eggs, 
four ounces of sugar. 

Soak the sponge-cakes for twenty minutes in the sherry, 
soak also the gelatine for the same time in as much of the 
milk as will cover it. 

Beat well in a bowl the yolks and whites of egg, and 
bringing the milk to the boiling-point, pour it over, stirring 
well meanwhile ; when well blended pour back into the pan 
in which the milk was boiled, and returning the pan to the 
fire, stir well until the eggs thicken, but do not let the mix- 
ture boil or the eggs will curdle. When the eggs thicken 
and a custard is thus formed, add the sugar, and melt in a 
sauce-pan the soaked gelatine ; pour all together while hot, 
and flavour with the vanilla. 

Dip now a large mould in cold water, place in it the 
sponge-cakes, pour over them the custard and gelatine. Set 



164 SWEET AND SAVOURY SAUOEa 

the mould in a cool place until the pudding is firm enough 
to turn out. When turned out the sponge-cakes will be 
found in the bottom. 

Plain Suet Padding. — One cupful suet, one cupful 
raisins, one cupful treacle, one cup sweet milk, three cupf uls 
flour, one tea-spoonful carbonate of soda, one tea-spoonful 
salt. 

Kemove from one quarter pound beef suet all skin and 
any discoloured part ; chop it very finely, and place one 
tea-cupful of it in a bowl. 

Bemove all seeds from the raisins, and place them in 
the bowl with the suet, add then the flour, treacle, and salt. 

Place on a plate the soda, and smooth out all lumps with 
the point of a knife, add it to other ingredients in bowl, 
and moisten all with the milk. 

Take a perfectly dry mould or bowl, place in either a 
piece of butter, dip into a pan of boiling water, and when 
the butter melts turn the mould or bowl from side to side, 
so as to insure the butter greasing the entire surface. 

Pour into the mould the mixture, tie over the top a 
pudding-cloth, which must first be dipped into hot water. 
Place the mould in a pan half filled with boiling water, and 
boil it for three hours. 

Note. — This pudding will be much lighter if the water in which 
it is cooked is only allowed to come half-way up the sides of the 
mould. 



SWEET AND SAVOURY SAUCES. 
SAVOURY SAUCES. 

Oyster Sauce. — One pint of oysters, one half pint of milk, 
two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, one half tea-spoon- 
ful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one salt-spoon- 
ful of grated nutmeg. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters. Melt the butter in a 



EOO SAUCE — MINT SAUCE. 155 

sauce-pan, stir into it the flour, and add t-o this by degrees 
the liquor from the oysters. 

When this mixture boils, throw into it the oysters, and 
boil all together until the leaves of the fish begin to shrivel. 
Throw in the pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and having boiled 
the milk in a separate sauce-pan, stir it in also ; then the 
sauce-pan must at once be removed from the fire, otherwise 
the milk will curdle and the sauce be ruined. 

Egg Sauce. — One and one-half ounce of butter, three 
quarters of an ounce of flour, three gills of milk, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of white pepper, two hard- 
boiled eggs. 

Melt the butter in a small sauce-pan, stir into it the flour, 
and by degrees add to these the milk. When this mixture 
boils, throw into it the pepper and salt, and let all cook to- 
gether for two minutes. 

Remove the shells from the eggs, chop them into small, 
irregular pieces, and stir these in. When this is done, the 
Eauce is ready for use. 

Caper Sauce. — ^Two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, 
one half pint of milk, one half pint of cold water, one half 
tea-spoonful of white pepper, one half tea-spoonful of salt, 
two table-spoonfuls of capers. 

Put the butter into a small sauce-pan and let it melt. 
Stir into this the flour and the milk ; when this comes to 
the boiling-point, by degrees pour in the water. Let the 
mixture again boil up, season with the pepper and salt, and 
let all boil together for two minutes. 

At the end of this time throw in the capers and remove 
the sauce-pan from the fire, the sauce being now ready for 
use. 

Note. — ^When this sauce is prepared to be used with a leg of 
mutton, a half pint of the liquor from the boiling meat may be 
substituted for the cold water with excellent flavouring effect. 

Mint Sauce. — ^Two table-spoonfuls of chopped mint, six 



156 8WEET AND SAVOURY SAUCES. 

table-spoonfuls of vinegar, two table-spoonf als of cold water, 
three table-spoonfuls of sugar. 

The mint before being chopped should be thoroughly 
washed, and when washed and chopped it must be placed 
in a gravy-boat, the vinegar and water poured over it, and 
throwing the sugar into this^ all should be stirred until the 
sugar melts. 

This sauce is designed for roast spring lamb. 

Note. — Two table-spoonfuls of white wine are sometixneB substi- 
tuted for the cold water in preparing this sauce. 

Tartare Sauce. — Yolks of two eggs, one gill of salad oil, 
one salt-spoonful of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper, 
one table-spoonful of white wine vinegar, one half tea-spoon- 
ful of French mustard, one table-spoonful of gherkins. 

The vinegar and yolks of eggs must first be slightly 
beaten together in a small bowl. Add to these drop by 
drop the salad oil, taking care to stir one way all the time. 
When this is done, season the mixture with the pepper, salt, 
and mustard; add also the gherkins, finely chopped, and 
serve in a gravy-boat with boiled salmon or cold meats. 

Note. — Capers may be used for this sauce if preferred, or if the 
gherkins are not obtainable. 

Onion Sance. — ^Two Spanish onions, one ounce of butter, 
one half ounce of flour, three gills of milk, one salt-spoonful 
of salt, one half salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Preparatory to making this sauce, soak the onions over 
night in water which must have been poured over them 
boiling. 

When required, take the onions from the soak, put them 
into a sauce-pan, and covering them with boiling water, let 
them boil therein for half an hour. 

When boiled, take them from the water, chop them finely, 
and placing them in a bowl, cover them at once with the 
milk in order to preserve their colour. 

Melt the butter in a small sauce-pan, add the flour, and 



BEEAD SAUCE — BROWN SAUCE. 157 

into this pour the onion and milk, when all must be allowed 
to come to the boiling-point, and the pepper and salt then 
being added, the sauce must be permitted to boil thereafter 
for two minutes, when it will be ready to serve. 

Bread Sauce. — Two ounces of bread, one half pint of 
milk, one Bermuda onion, six pepper-corns^ one salt-spoonful 
of salt, one half gill of white stock. 

Put the bread, broken into convenient pieces, into a bowl 
and cover it with the milk. Throw into the bowl also the 
onion, pepper-corns, and salt, together with the stock. Stir 
all together, after which, pouring the mixture into a small 
sauce-pan, and placing this over the fire, allow all to cook 
slowly for half an hour. 

Skim out at the end of this time the pepper-corns and 
onion, and serve the sauce in a gravy-boat with roast fowl. 

Brown Sauce. — One carrot, one turnip, one half stock of 
celery, one table-spoonful of mushroom catchup, six drops of 
caramel, two ounces of butter, three quarter ounces of flour, 
three gills of second stock, one salt-spoonful of salt, one half 
salt-spoonful of pepper. 

Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and washing and paring 
the turnip and carrot, slice these into the melted butter, 
also the celery. 

Brown the vegetables well upon both sides, and when this 
is done stir in the flour. Add by degrees the stock, stirring 
all constantly ; when the mixture boils, season it with the 
salt and pepper, and flavour with the catchup. Let all cook 
for two minutes, then drop in the caramel, and strain the 
sauce into a gravy-boat for serving. 

This gravy is served with fried meats or fish, or broiled 
steak and cutlets. 



158 SWEET AND SAVOURY SAUCES. 

SWEET AND SAVOURY SAUCES. 

SWEET SAUCES. 

Qerman Sweet Sauce.— Yolks of two eggs, one gill of 
sherry, one table-spoonful of sugar, one table-spoonful of 
cream. 

Put the yolks of eggs into a small sauce-pan, pour over 
them the sherry, and whisk these slightly with an egg- 
whisk. Add the cream and sugar, and, placing the sauce- 
pan over a very slow fire, continue to use the egg-whisk 
until the froth arises, and from it the escaping steam. 

Bemove the sauce from the fire and serve. 

Jam Sance. — One heaped table-spoonful of jam, one half 
ounce of sugar, one gill of sherry, one table-spoonful of cold 
water, six drops of cochineal 

Place the jam in a small sauce-pan, pour over it the sherry 
and water, add to these the sugar, and stir all over a brisk 
fire until the mixture boils. When boiling drop in the 
cochineal, and the sauce is ready for serving. 

Lemon Sauce. — One lemon, six pieces of cut loaf -sugar, 
one tea-cupful of cold water. 

Pare the rind from the lemon and cut this into strips the 
thickness of a straw. Put these straws of lemon-rind into a 
small sauce-pan together with the lumps of sugar, and 
covering them with the cold water, squeeze into the mixture 
the juice of the lemon. 

Put the sauce-pan over the fire, and stir the contents until 
boiling; when this takes place cover the sauce-pan, and 
drawing it to one side of the fire, let all simmer slowly for 
twenty minutes. 

This sauce should be poured over the pudding with which 
it is served, in order that the straws of lemon-rind may gar- 
nish the top of the pudding. 

Brandy Sance. — One ounce of butter^ one half ounce of 



HARD SAUCE — JELLT SAUCE. 159 

ilour, one half pint of cold water, one wine-glassful of 
brandy, one ounce of sugar. 

The butter must first be melted in a small sauce-pan, the 
Hour stirred into it, and the water then added. 

When this comes to the boiling-point, let it continue to 
boil for two minutes, add the brandy and sugar, and when 
all is well stirred together it is ready for serving. 

Hard Sauce. — One quarter pound of sugar, one quarter 
pound of butter, one quarter of a nutmeg, white of one egg. 

Put the sugar and butter together in a bowl and beat 
them to a cream, taking care that the butter does not oil, 
which may be prevented by keeping it cooL 

Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix this 
lightly into the bowl. When this is done put the sauce 
into a crystal dish for serving, and grate over it the 
nutmeg. 

Custard Sauce. — ^Two eggs, three gills of milk, one des- 
sert-spoonful of sugar, one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Place the eggs in a bowl and beat them until very light. 
Pour them into a quart pitcher, place the pitcher into a 
sauce-pan of boiling water, and throwing in the milk, stir 
it together with the eggs until they begin to thicken* 

Take the pitcher from the boiling water, stir the sugai* 
and nutmeg into its contents, and pour the sauce around 
the pudding with which it is to be served. 

Jelly Sauce. — Two heaped table-spoonfuls of currant 
jelly, one half of a lemon, one wine-glassful of sherry, one 
ounce of sugar, six drops of cochineal, one salt-spoonful of 
mace. 

Put the jelly into a small sauce-pan, squeeze over it the 
juice of the lemon, add to this the sugar and wine, place 
the sauce-pan over the fire, and stir its contents until the 
jelly melts ; then the cochineal and mace should be added, 
and the instant after this that the sauce boils it is ready 
for serving. 



160 lOES, CREAMS, AND JELLIES. 

Wine Sance. — Two ounces of butter, three ounces of 
sugar, one and one-half gill of boiling water, one gill of 
sherry, one half salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream in a bowl, pour 
over these the boiling water, stirring meantime ; place the 
mixture into a sauce-pan and stir all over the fire until veiy 
hot, not, however, allowing it to boiL 

Add the sherry and nutmeg, and the sauce may at once 
be poured around the pudding with which it is to be served. 

Wliite Sauce. — ^One gill of milk, one gill of cream, one 
tea-spoonful of arrowroot, one-third of a salt-spoonful 
pounded mace, one ounce of butter, one half tea-spoonful of 
lemon-juice, one half table-spoonful of sugar. 

Melt first in a small sauce-pan the butter, and then stir 
in the arrowroot; when both are well blended, add by 
degrees the milk. 

Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until the milk 
boils, then add the cream, mace, and sugar. Cook for two 
minutes longer, take the pan from the fire, and when it has 
stood for one minute, squeeze in the lemon-juice. 



ICES, CBEAMS, AND JELLIES. 

ICES. 

Iced Pudding. — ^Three gills of milk, three gills of cream, 
yolks of twelve eggs, ten ounces of sugar, six ounces of 
crystallized fruits, one small wine-glassful of brandy, one 
small wine-glassful of curacoa. 

Mix very thoroughly together the yolks of eggs, cream, 
and milk. Place this mixture into a quart pitcher, and 
putting this into a sauce-pan of boiling water over the fire, 
stir the compound constantly until the egg yolks begin to 
thicken all. 

Take the pitcher from the water, stir the sugar in with 
its contents, and allow this to stand until the custard is 
quite cold. Pour it into the freezer, and when it thickens 



FROZEN PUDDING GLAc£ 161 

hj freezing to a thick batter and cleaves to the sides in 
lumps, take the fruit, pour over it a little boiling water, and 
draining this off at once, cut the fruit into small pieces, 
throw upon them the curacoa and brandy, and turning this 
mixture into the half-frozen custard, freeze all until stiff 
enough to mould. 

Pour cold water into a quart mould, and having thoroughly 
wetted the inside thereof, stick some of the crystallized fruits 
around the sides and into the bottom of the mould, for the 
purpose of garnishing the pudding. Then work the frozen 
mixture smoothly into the mould, taking care that it is 
packed evenly into all of the crevices ; pack the mould in 
ice, and let it remain for one hour, when it will be ready to 
turn out and serve. 

Note. — ^Rock salt shotild be mixed with the ice used for freezing 
creams and puddings, as it increases the degree of cold, and pre- 
vents the ice from melting. 

Frozen Pudding Glac^, or Tntti-fhittL— One quarter 
pound of raisins, one pint of milk, yolks of two eggs, one 
quarter pound of powdered sugar, two ounces of sweet 
almonds, two ounces of candied cherries, two ounces of 
citron, two limes, one pint of cream, one inch stick of 
cinnamon. 

Stem and seed the raisins, put them into a sauce-pan with 
the milk and cinnamon, and placing this over the fire, let 
all simmer together for twenty minutes. 

While this is simmering, place the yolks of eggs and the 
sugar into a bowl and beat them welL At the end of the 
twenty minutes strain the raisins and cinnamon from the 
milk, throw the cinnamon away, and put the raisins aside 
for further use. 

Pour the strained milk over the yolks of eggs and sugar, 
and stirring them well together, return the mixture to the 
sauce-pan; place this over the fire, stiU stirring, and allow 
the yolks of eggs to thicken, taking care that the milk does 
not boiL 

Take the sauce-pan from the fire, allow its contents to be- 

n 



162 ICES, CREAMS, AND JELLIES. 

come quite cold, and while awaiting this, pour boiling water 
over the almonds to blanch them, remove their skins, and 
chop them very finely ; cut the limes each into quarters, and 
the citron into very small thin pieces; add all these to- 
gether with the cherries and raisins to the custard when it 
becomes cold, pour in upon them the cream, and stirring all 
well together, throw the pudding into the freezer and allow 
it to freeze until it is firm enough to mould ; then it should 
be firmly worked into a quart mould, which must have been 
wet with cold water to keep the mixture from sticking, and 
the mould packed into ice for one hour, that the pudding 
may form and firm. 

Lemon Water Ice. — Four lemons, one half pound of 
sugar, one and one-half pint of boiling water. 

Grate the rind from the lemons into a bowl, squeeze upon 
this the juice, add to this the sugar, and pour over all the 
boiling water, stirring the mixture meantime until thoroughly 
blended. 

Allow the preparation to stand until quite cold, after which 

strain it through a horse-hair sieve or a piece of muslin, and 

throwing it into a freezer, freeze until very hard ; then the 

freezer must be packed in fresh ice to keep its contents from 

melting, and the water ice should be served from this as 

required. 

Note. — Lemon water ices should be tasted always before frozen, 
in order that more sugar may he added to the preparation, if it be 
found not to have the desired sweetness. 

Strawberry Water Ice. — One pint of fresh strawbemes, 
one and one-half pint of cold water, one half of a lemon, 
three ounces of sugar, six drops of cochineal 

Put the fruit upon a horse-hair sieve, sprinkle over it a 
little of the sugar, and rub all through the sieve. Mix the 
cold water with this strawberry syrup, add the sugar, squeeze 
in the juice of the lemon, drop in also the cochineal, and stir 
them all well together ; pour the mixture into a freezer, 
freeze it until hard, and pack the freezer in fresh ice to pre- 
serve its contents in a frozen condition until served. 



ICED SOUFFLE — STRAWBERRY ICE-CREAM. 163 

Iced Soufi^. — ^Yolks of six eggs, whites of two eggs, one 
pint of milk, two ounces of sugar, one half tea-spoonful of 
grated nutmeg, one pint of double cream. 

Beat the whites and yolks of eggs together, add to these 
the nutmeg and sugar, and heating the milk imtil almost at 
the boUing-point, pour this over the mixture, stirring aU 
together while pouring in the milk. Pour this into the 
sauce-pan in which the milk was boiled, and stir it over the 
fire until the eggs begin to thicken, but exercising great care 
that the milk does not again boil. 

Put the custard into a bowl, and allow it to stand until 
quite cold ; then one half pint of the cream should be stirred 
in, and the whole poured into a freezer, and frozen until 
stiff enough to be conveniently moulded. 

Work the frozen custard into a pint and a half souffle tin. 
Tie around the souffle tin a sheet of kitchen-paper in such a 
manner as to increase the depth of the tin five or six inches. 
Whip the remaining cream to a stiff froth, pile this upon the 
top of the frozen custard, and setting the tin with its con- 
tents into a freezer, pile around this sufficient ice and rock 
salt to freeze the souffle. 

This should be transferred carefully, when frozen, to a 
silver souffle dish, or served in the tin in which it is prepared, 
with a napkin folded around the same. 



ICES, CBRAMS, AND JELLIES. 

CREAMS. 

Strawberry Ice-Cream. — One pint of milk, four eggs, 
one and one-half pint of fresh strawberries, one quart of 
cream, one half pound of sugar. 

Beat the eggs until very light, make the milk hot, and 
pour it over them. Pour these together into a sauce-pan, 
and stir them over the fire until the egg begins to thicken. 

Transfer the custard to a bowl and allow it to cooL In 
the meantime place the strawberries into a hair sieve, 
sprinkle over them a little sugar, and then rub them through 



164 ICES, CREAMS, AND JELLIES. 

the sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. When this is 
done, add the sugar to the syrup so formed, and when the 
custard has become quite cold, stir the fruit mixture into it. 
Add the cream, and stirring this well through the custard, 
pour all into a freezer, and freeze until quite solid, stirring 
the cream down from the sides from time to time, to keep it 
smooth while freezing, imless the freezer be arranged to do 
this while being turned. 

NoTB. — In mixing rock salt with the ioe to be used for freeang 
creams, etc., great care should be taken that not even a drop of 
salted water falls into the freezer itself, as the smallest quantity of 
salt inside will make the cream most difficult to freeze, and when 
frozen, cause it to melt quickly. 

Vanilla lee-Cream. — One quart of cream, three pints of 
milk, one pound of sugar, eight eggs, four tea-spoonfuls of 
essence of vanilla. 

Beat the eggs until very light, and heating the milk, pour 
it over them, stirring both well together. 

Place the eggs and milk in a bright sauce-pan, and stir 
them over the fire until the eggs begin to thicken, not, how- 
ever, allowing the mixture to boiL 

Pour the mixture into a large bowl, and when it becomes 
quite cool, add to it the cream, vaniUa, and sugar. When 
tiiese are thoroughly stirred together, pour the custard into 
the freezer, and freeze it moderately hard, remembering to 
stir the cream down from the sides occasionally while it is 
being frozen, if the freezer be not arranged so as to make 
this unnecessary. 

Notes. — All fruit creams may be made after the method here 
given for strawberry ice-cream, and all flavouring essences may be 
used as the vanilla is used in the above, which constitutes the only 
difference existing between the various creams made from extracts 
or essences. 

A delicious cream called lalla rookh is made by the simple 
addition of a small quantity of fine rum to each service of vanilla 
ice-cream, which must be stirred in as the cream is eaten, and the 
amount of which may be regulated by the taste. 



ORANGE CREAM — CHARLOTTE BUSSE. 165 

Orange Cream. — One half ounce of gelatine, one gill of 
cold water, one quarter pound of cut loaf sugar, one gill of 
milk, yolks of three eggs, one half pint of double cream, 
four oranges, two lemons. 

First soak the gelatine in cold water for ten minutes, then 
taking the lumps of sugar, rub them over the rinds of the 
oranges and lemons in order that the sugar may become im- 
pregnated with the flavour. Squeeze over the flavoured 
lumps of sugar then the juice of the oranges and lemons, 
pour upon them the milk, and stir all over the fire until the 
sugar melts, exercising the greatest care that the milk does 
not boil during the time, as boiling will cause it to curdle 
and spoil the cream. 

Place the yolks of eggs into a large bowl, pour over them 
the prepared milk, and stir all together, when the whole 
must be put into a sauce-pan, and placed over the fire for 
two minutes to remove the raw taste of the eggs ; and this 
being done, the cream should be again turned into the bowl 
and left to cool. 

Now whip the double cream to a stiff froth, mix it lightly 
into the bowl when its contents have cooled, melt the soaked 
gelatine over the fire, not allowing it to boil in the process ; 
add it also to the preparation in the bowl, and stir all 
together ; continue to stir the cream occasionally until the 
gelatine in it blends with the other ingredients and begins 
to firm, otherwise it will sink to the bottom directly, and 
reunite in one firm mass as it cools. 

Prepare a mould by dipping it into cold water to prevent 
sticking, and pouring the cream into this, set it away in a 
dry cool place to harden and set into form. 

Charlotte Bnsse. — One half pint of double cream, one 
half ounce of gelatine, one half gill of cold water, one ounce of 
sugar, one tea-spoonful of essence of vanilla, white of one egg, 
one quarter pound of lady-fingers, one dozen candied cherries. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water, and soak it for ten 
minutes. Put the cream into a bowl, and with an egg-whisk 
bring it to a very stiff froth ; add to this the sugar and 



166 lOES, CREAMS, AND JELLIES. 

vanilla, then melt the gelatine over the ^re, and pour it into 
the cream very carefully. 

Now whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir this 
also into the bowl, being careful not to beat down the froth 
while stirring ; after which prepare the lady-fingers by 
splitting them apart, and cutting the sides of each so that 
they may fit squarely together, and line a pint souffle tin, 
with these placed perpendicularly. 

Pick the cherries up one by one with a skewer, and dipping 
them into cold water, arrange them in any fanciful form in 
the bottom of the tin. When the cream has commenced to 
firm a little in the bowl, pour it into the mould very care- 
fully, in order that the wall of lady-fingers may not become 
disarranged, and set the whole away to harden. 

When the charlotte russe has firmed sufficiently to be 
turned out of the mould, transfer it to a dessert-dish, using 
care not to break its shape or to disarrange the cherries which 
garnish the top. 

Notes. — Charlotte russe may also be made by baking a sponge- 
cake in very thin sheets as for roUed jelly-cake, and cutting this 
into lengths about four inches wide and ten long, form these into 
small cups, sticking them together by brushing a littie white of egg 
between the overlapping ends. 

Arrange the cake cups upon a platter, placing a round of orna- 
mental paper under each, fill them two-thirds full with the cream 
prepared as above ; and when this hardens, whip sufficient white of 
egg to a stiff froth, and fill up the cups, placing upon the top of 
each a small lozenge cut for the purpose from the sponge-cake. 
When filled, they should be covered over with a sheet of paper, and 
placed in the oven for a moment to " set " the white of egg froth, 
when they are ready to serve. The lozenges upon the top of each 
may be garnished with a raisin or candied cherry if desired. 

Bice Cream. — Two large table-spoonfuls of finely cracked 
rice, one pint of milk, one ounce of butter, two ounces of cut 
loaf sugar, rind of one lemon, one half ounce of gelatine, one 
half pint of double cream. 

Prepare the gelatine by soaking it in the milk for one 
hour. Put into a fresh bright sauce-pan the butter, stir into 
it the rice, which must be as fine but not finer than granulated 



VELVET CREAM — ITALIAN CREAM. 167 

sugar ; add to this by degrees the milk and gelatine, and 
rubbing the lumps of sugar upon the rind of the lemon to 
flavour them, throw these into the sauce-pan, place the sauce- 
pan over the fire, and stir its contents until the sugar melts 
and the mixture boils. 

Allow the boiling to continue for five minutes ; at the end 
of which time pour the compound into a bowl, and set it 
aside until it becomes nearly cold. 

Beat the cream to a stiff froth, stir it lightly into the 
bowl, and pour all into a mould which must have previously 
been prepared by being dipped into cold water, after which 
the mould should be packed in ice until the cream becomes 
sufficiently firm to turn out and serve. Bice cream should 
be served with raspberry jam surrounding it. 

Velvet Cream. — One ounce of gelatine, one half pint of 
white wine, one lemon, three ounces of cut loaf sugar, one 
pint of double cream, one half gill of cold water. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water, and let it soak for ten 
minutes. Bub upon the rind of the lemon three or four of 
the lumps of sugar to flavour them, and placing these pieces 
of sugar in a copper or porcelain-lined sauce-pan, squeeze 
over them the juice of the lemon, add to these the wine and 
the remainder of the sugar, together with the soaked gela- 
tine, and stir all over the fire until the gelatine melts. Pour 
the mixture from the sauce-pan through a strainer into a 
bowl and allow all to cool. 

When cool, whip the cream to a stiff froth, mix it lightly 
with the strained preparation, and pouring the cream so 
completed into a mould, pack the mould in ice, and allow it 
to remain therein until its contents become firm enough to 
turn out in proper form and serve. 

Italian Cream. — One pint cream, one half ounce gelatine, 
two ounces of sugar, one inch stick cinnamon, one half gill of 
milk, yolks of six eggs, grated rind of one lemon. 

Soak in a small sauce-pan for ten minutes the gelatine and 
milk, then place the pan over a very slow fire, stir the gela- 



168 ICES, CREAMS, AND JELLIES. 

tine and milk together until the former is quite dissolved, 
and then place the pan on one side. Place now in a larger 
pan the cream, which must be thick, and quite sweet ; add to 
it the lemon rind, sugar, and cinnamon, allow the cream to 
boil, then take the pan from the fire. Beat now well in a 
bowl the yolks of eggs, and pour over them the hot milk and 
gelatine. Pour all now into the sauce-pan with the cream, 
return it to the fire, and stir well thereon for three minutes, 
taking great care not to allow it to boiL Bemove the pan 
from the fire, lift out the cinnamon stick, and stir all until 
quite cold, but not set, then pour the mixture into a mould, 
which must first be dipped into cold water. 

NoTK. — Unless the cream is very thick, a little more gelatine 
must be used in summer. 

Snow Jelly. — One ounce of gelatine, one quarter pound 
of sugar, one half gill of brandy, tlie juice of two lemons, yolka 
of two eggs, whites of four eggs, the sixth part of a grated 
nutmeg, one half tea-spoonful of ground cinnamon, one quart 
of cold water. 

Soak for one hour in one gill of water the gelatine. Place 
at the end of this time on the fire, in a bright, clear sauce- 
pan, the remainder of the water; when tepid remove the pan 
from the fire, and add the soaked gelatine, sugar, nutmeg, 
lemon-juice, cinnamon, and brandy. Whip now in a bowl 
the yolks and whites of two eggs, pour over them one table- 
spoonful of cold water, and pour this also into the sauce-pan; 
if the shells of eggs are quite clean throw them in. Betum 
the sauce-pan to the fire, and with an egg- whisk stir the con- 
tents rapidly until boiling ; the instant it boils remove the 
whisk, and allow the mixture to boil rapidly for two nunutes. 

Pour tlirough a flannel bag a little tepid water. Have in 
readiness two dry basins, pour the jelly from the pan 
through the bag into one of them, draw the basin quickly 
from under the bag, and place under the remaining one. 
Pour the jelly which ran through first again into the bag, 
and continue doing so until the jelly runs through perfectly 
dear. 



LEMON JELLT. 169 

The eggHshells and sediment in the bag will serve as a 
filter; each time the jelly runs through it will become clearer. 
When the jelly is clear, place it on one side, until it begins 
to firm, then whip to a stiff froth the remaining whites of 
eggs, stir them very lightly into the jelly, taking great care 
not to mix them too much. The whites of egg ought to be 
in little white spots through the jelly. Place the mixture 
instantly into a wet mould, and allow it to firm. Turn the 
jelly out on a glass or silver dish, and serve with a boiled 
custard poured round. 

Note. — In summer a little more gelatine must be added. 



ICES, CREAMS, AND JELLIES. 

JELLIES. 

Lemon Jelly. — One and one-half ounce of gelatine, one 
pint of cold water, rind of two lemons, juice of three lemons, 
one inch of stick cinnamon, three ounces of lump sugar, one 
and one-half gill of sherry, whites of two eggs. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water, and allow it to soak 
for ten minutes, after which pour all into a copper or por- 
celain-lined sauce-pan, adding the rind and juice of the 
lemons. 

Throw into this the wine, stick of cinnamon, and sugar, 
and stir all over the fire until the gelatine melts. Put the 
whites of eggs into a bowl, whisk them slightly with an egg- 
whisk, pour them into the sauce-pan, and continue using the 
Ggg'^hisk in this until the liquid boils. 

Draw the sauce-pan to the side of the fire, cover it, and 
allow its contents to simmer slowly for ten minutes. Dip a 
flannel bag into tepid water, and pour the contents of the 
sauce-pan through it ; then pouring the jelly into a mould, 
stand this upon ice, and when it has congealed and become 
firm, serve it turned out upon a crystal jeUy-dish. 

Qraage Jelly. — Eight sweet oranges, two lemons, one 



170 ICES, CREAMS, AND JELLIES. 

quarter pound of sugar, one gill of cold water, one ounce of 
gelatine. 

Cover the gelatine with half of the cold water, and let it 
soak for ten minutes. 

Put this into a sauce-pan, add to it the sugar with the 
remainder of the cold water, and stir all over the £bre until 
the gelatine and sugar melt. 

Take the sauce-pan from the fire, and having pressed out 
the juice of the oranges and lemons and strained it, add this 
to the contents of the sauce-pan, after which pour the mix- 
ture into a mould, and stand the mould upon ice ; when it 
becomes jelly, turn it out upon a crystal or other jelly-plate, 
and serve. 

Oalf s-foot Jelly. — ^Two calf s feet, juice of two lemons, 
rinds of three lemons, one quarter pound of cut loaf sugar, 
ten cloves, one inch of cinnamon stick, whites of three eggs, 
one half gill of sherry wine, three pints of cold water. 

Cut the feet into three pieces — across the first joint, and 
through the hoof. Place them in a lai^e sauce-pan, cover 
them with cold water, and putting the sauce-pan over the 
fire, bring all quickly to the boiling-point. 

When the water boils, take the feet from the sauce-pan, 
and throwing them into a basin of cold water, wash them 
thoroughly. 

Put the feet when washed into a copper or porcelain-lined 
sauce-pan, pour over them the three pints of cold water, put 
the sauce-pan over the fire, and when the water boils draw 
it to one side, and let its contents simmer very slowly for 
five hours. 

Strain the liquor through a horse-hair sieve, or if this be 
not convenient, through a coarse towel ; let the stock so ex- 
tracted stand over night, and then, removing the grease 
which will have gathered upon the top, dip a towel in boil- 
ing water and wash the suif ace of the stock, which will be 
found quite firm, having stood for twelve hours. 

Now put the stock into a copper or porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan, and placing this over the fire, let it melt Add to the 



LEMON SPONGE. 171 

melted stock the cinnamon stick, lemon rind and juice, sugar, 
and cloves. 

Put the whites of eggs together with the shells, which 
must have been blanched with boiling water, into a bowl, 
beat them slightly, and pour them into the sauce-pan, con- 
tinuing to use the egg-whisk until all is boiling. 

When this point is reached, draw the sauce-pan inmiedi- 
ately to the side of the fire, and allow itis contents to simmer 
for ten minutes. 

During this time prepare a flannel, or what is better, a 
felt bag, by pouring through it a little tepid water; and 
when the jelly has simmered ten minutes, pour it through 
this bag into a bowl, and repeat the process of straining 
until the jelly becomes perfectly clear. Pour it into a 
mould, and stirring into it the sherry, place the mould upon 
ice or in a very cool place until the jelly sets and becomes 
firm enough to turn out and serve. 

Note. — ^Brandy may be substituted for the sherry in this prepara- 
tion, if desired, and half brandy and half sherry is sometimes used 
to make up the quantity prescribed. 



Lemon Sponge. — One ounce of gelatine, one pint of water, 
two lemons, one half poimd of cut loaf sugar, whites of three 

eggs. 

Put the gelatine into a bowl, cover it with the cold water, 
and let it soak for twenty minutes. At the end of this time 
add to it the rind of the lemons, squeeze over the lemon- 
juice, throw in the sugar, and pour aU into a copper or por- 
celain-lined sauce-pan, place the sauce-pan over the fire, and 
stir its contents until boiling, after which it must be allowed 
to boil for two minutes. 

At the end of this time pour the mixture through a sieve 
into a bowl, and let it remain therein until cold, but not long 
enough to set. 

Beat the whites of eggs slightly, pour them into the mix- 
ture in the bowl, and stir all together, when all must be 
whisked with an egg-whisk until thick and white, which 
will take nearly or quite half an hour. 



172 ICES, CREAMS, AND JELLIES. 

Pour the sponge into a mould, stand this in a cool dry- 
place, and when " set," turn it out upon and serve in a 
crystal dessert-dish. 

Apple Transparency. — Six large apples, one pint of 
water, one half pound of cut loaf sugar, rind of one lemon, 
six drops of cochineal, one half ounce of gelatine, white of 
one e^. 

Put the gelatine into a bowl, and pour over it half a gill 
of the cold water, and allow it to soak in this for half an 
hour. 

Pare the apples, and take the core from them, without 
breaking the form of the fruit 

Put the sugar into a shallow sauce-pan, and with it the 
lemon rind ; pour over this the remainder of the cold water, 
and stir all until boiling. Into this syrup throw the apples, 
cover the sauce-pan, and placing it over the fire, let all cook 
very slowly imtil the apples become tender, and may easily 
be pierced through with a skewer or fork. 

Eemove the apples without breaking them, and place 
them in a crystal dish. 

Throw the gelatine into the syrup that remains in the 
sauce-pan, stir all until the gelatine is melted, pour the mix- 
ture through a strainer into a bowl, add to it the cochineal, 
and stand the bowl in a cool dry place until the syrup con- 
geals. 

Cut the jelly so made into rough pieces, distribute it 
among the apples in the dessert-dish, and whipping the 
white of egg to a stiff froth, garnish the dish with thia 

Note. — Double cream is cream that has been twenty-four hours 
in rising. Single cream rises in twelve hours, and cream for butter 
requires forty-eight. 



PIES AND PASTRIES. 173 

PIES AND PASTRIES. 
PASTRIES. 

Puff Paste. — One quarter pound of butter, one quarter 
pound of flour, yolk of one eggy one half gill of cold water, 
six drops of lemon-juice. 

Sift the flour through a fine sieve upon a mixing-board. 
Put the yolk of egg into a small bowl, and add to it the 
lemon-juice and cold water^ beating these together with a 
fork. 

Make a well then in the centre of the flour, pour into it 
by degrees the mixture from the bowl, and mixing in the 
flour from the sides, knead all flrmly together. 

Flour a rolling-pin, and roll the paste out very thinly ; 
place the butter in the corner of a towel, and covering it 
with the opposite comer, press out in this any moisture that 
the butter may contain; spread it upon half of the crust, 
fold the other half over it, and press the edges tightly 
together. 

Eoll this' out again very thinly, taking care that the 
butter does not escape between the edges. 

Fold the crust again in three layers, and again roll it out, 
but rolling across instead of lengthwise, in order that the 
butter may not run in streaks by being always rolled the 
same way, and repeat this process of folding and rolling 
seven times, remembering to let the crust cool between the 
rollings, otherwise the butter will oiL 

The paste may now be used for vol-au-vent, or whatever 
purpose required. 

Note. — If a larger quantity of this paste is required, it should be 
made in divisions, as a laiger amount than is given above is not so 
successfully manipulated. When flour is in the least inferior, the 
quantity of water must be decreased, as there will not be sufficient 
gluten in it to absorb the quantity of moisture. 

Flaky Crust. — One pound of flour, one half pound of 
butter, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one salt-spoonfuI 
of Baity one haJf gill of cold water, whites of two eggs. 



174 PIES AND PASTRIES. 

Sift the flour througli a sieve upon a mixing-board. Put 
the whites of eggs upon a plate, add to them the salt^ and 
whip all to a light froth. Mix the flour to a firm dough 
with the froth of eggs and the cold water, roll it out very 
thinly, divide the butter into three pieces, and spread one 
of them upon the dough. 

Fold the dough in three layers, and roll it out thinly 
again, reversing the order of rolling each time. Eepeat this 
process until the butter is all rolled into the dough, when 
the crust is ready for use^ and may be used for meat pies or 
fruit tart& 

Short Cmst. — Six ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, 
one half gill of cold water, one half tea-spoonful of lemon- 
juice, yolk of one egg. 

Place the flour when sifted upon a mixing-board, add to 
it the butter, and rub these gently together with the finger 
tips imtil all look like bread crumbs. 

Make a little hole in the centre of the flour and butter, 
drop into it the yolk of eggy pour over it the lemon-juice, 
and adding the cold water by degrees, knead all lightly 
together. 

This crust is used only for fruit tarts, and must be rolled 
out to about a quarter of an inch thickness when required. 

Suet Cmst. — One pound of flour, six ounces of beef 
suet, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one tea-spoonful of 
salt, one half pint of cold water. 

First take the skin from the suet, and chop it very finely. 
Place it upon a mixing-board, and mix it together with the 
flour. Sprinkle over the mixture the salt and the baking- 
powder, make a hole in the centre, into which pour the 
water by degrees, mixing in the flour from the sides while 
pouring the water, when all must be kneaded lightly to- 
gether, and rolled out, when required, to the thickness of 
half an inch. 

This crust may be used for a boiled meat, or a boiled 
apple, pudding. 



ROUGH PUPP PASTE — PIE CRUST. 176 

Bongh Puff Paste. — Six ounces of butter, eight ounces 
of flour, one and one half table-spoonful of cold water, one 
half tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, yolk of one egg* 

First sift the flour on to a mixing-board. Put with it the 
butter, and chop this up roughly with a knife, mixing at the 
same time with it the flour. Make a little well in the 
centre of the butter and flour, drop into it the yolk of egg, 
sprinkle over the lemon-juice and cold water, and knead all 
firmly together. 

Boll the paste out thinly, fold it together, and roll again, 
reversing the order of rolling, aud repeat this process four 
times, observing to change the direction of rolling each 
time. 

The paste is then ready to be used, and is suitable for the 
covering of either fruit tarts or meat pies. 

4 

Note. — In preparing all crusts that require butter in the making, 
it wUl be found advantageous to put the butter upon ice until 
thoroughly hardened before using it. 



PIES AND PASTRIES. 
PIES. 

Pie Crust. — Twelve ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, 
one tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one half tea-spoonful of 
salt, one gill of cold water. 

Place the flour and butter together in a bowl, and mix 
them lightly with the fingers. When thoroughly blended, 
add the baking-powder and the salt, pour in upon this the 
cold water, and stir all well together, and flouring a mixing- 
board, turn this mixture out upon it, and knead all to a 
light dough. When required, roll this dough out very 
thinly, and line the pie tin with it 

Note. — When fresh sweet lard can be obtained, it may be sub- 
stituted for butter in making pie crust, or mixed in equal parts 
with it. 



176 PIES AND PASTRIES. 

Lemon Pie. — ^Two lemons, five table-spoonfuls of sugar, 
three eggs, one tea-cupful of milk, two table-spoonfuls of 
com starch. 

Grate the rind of the lemons into a bowl, chop the pulp 
of the lemon very finely, and mix it with the grated rind in 
the bowl. To this add the com starch, and beat all smooth 
with the cold milk. Separate the yolks from the whites of 
the eggs, and placing the whites upon a plate, drop the 
yolks in with the mixture in the bowl, and beat all well 
together, adding two table-spoonfuls of the sugar. 

Line a pie tin with pie crust (see p. 175), pour the mixture 
from the bowl into it, and placing the tin into a moderate 
oven, bake the pie for twenty minutes. 

Whip to a stiff froth the whites of eggs, and to this add 
the remainder of the sugar ; and when the pie is done, take 
it from the oven, and place over the top the sugared froth 
of egg, when it should be returned to the oven for five 
minutes, that the froth of egg may ^'set" and brown 
slightly upon the surface. Serve hot or cold, as the taste 
may dictate, although a lemon pie should never be allowed 
to stand long enough for the crust to become soaked with 
its moisture. 

Apple Fie. — One and one -half pound of apples, three 
ounces of sugar, one table-spoonful of cold water, one half 
tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Line a pie tin with pie crust (see p. 175), wet the edges of 
the crust with a little cold water, pare, core, and slice the 
apples, and arrange these in the tin. When this is done, 
sprinkle over the apples the sugar and nutmeg, and pour in 
the cold water; then cut a covering of the crust of the 
proper size, having rolled it to the thickness of one-third of 
an inch ; cover the pie with this, pressing it firmly together 
with the lining crust at the edges, and cutting two or three 
slits in the top with a knife, to permit the steam to escape 
while the pie is baking. 

This pie should be baked in a quick oven from twenty 
minutes to half an houi*, according to the length of time the 



PEAOH PIE CUSTARD PIE. 177 

apples may require to be exposed to the heat before becom- 
ing soft. 

Peach Pie. — One quart of peaches, three ounces of sugar, 
three table-spoonfuls of cream. 

Line a pudding-dish with flaky crust (see p. 173), and cut 
also a round of the same, large enough to cover the top of 
the pudding-dish. Bake the crust lining and the covering 
upon flat baking-tins in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 
While these are baking, pare and slice the peaches, which 
must be very ripe, mix together the sugar and cream, and 
pour over them ; and when the crust is done, place the pre- 
pared peaches in the pie-dish, cover them over with the top 
crust, and place all in the oven for five minutes, in order 
that the fruit may steam through and the crust brown 
lightly upon the surface. 

Note. — When small fxxiits are to be made into pies, such as 
strawberries, raspberries, etc., they should be treated in the manner 
above laid down, as baking them with the crust causes them to 
lose flavour and freshness. 

Costard Pie. — ^Three eggs, three gills of milk, one ounce 
of sugar, one half tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. 

lane a pie tin with the pie crust (see p. 175), and putting 
the eggs and sugar into a bowl, beat them together until 
the eggs become very light. Add to this the milk, and pour 
all into the crust-lined pie tin. Place the whole in a moder- 
ate oven, and bake the pie for half an hour. 

When done, grate over the surface the nutmeg, and serve 
cold or hot, as the taste may suggest, although custard pie 
should be cooled at once, if desired cold, as the crust soaks 
with standing and becomes unpalatable. 

Mince Pie. — Fourteen pounds of brown sugar, eight 
pounds of suet, eight poimds of raisins, eight pounds of cur- 
rants, one quarter pound of mixed spice, two pounds of 
citron, one half gallon of brandy, one table-spoonful of 
powdered ginger^ one table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, 

12 



178 PIES AND PASTRIES. 

three ounces of apple, one half gill of cider, two ounces of 
lean boiled beef, two heaped table-spoonfuls of strawberry 
jam. 

To prepare the mince meat^ which should stand at least 
one month before being used, skin first the suet^ and chop 
it very finely. Seed the raisins, and chop these also very 
finely. Wash the currants well, and drying them thoroughly, 
chop these finely with the citron, which must first be cut in 
very thin slices. 

Place the chopped ingredients in a large bowl, mix them 
thoroughly together, and add to this the sugar, the mixed 
spice, cinnamon, and ginger, and stirring all well together, 
pour over the brandy, and stir all again until thoroughly 
saturated with the moisture. 

This mince should be packed for keeping into a stone jar, 
and closely covered. 

When a pie is desired, take out of the jar six heaped table- 
spoonfuls of the mince, put it into a bowl, and mix the cider 
and strawbeny jam, ako the beef, which must be minced 
exceedingly fine. Chop the apple also very finely, and stir 
this together with the mixture in the bowl ; after which 
line a deep pie tin with puif paste (see p. 173), pour the 
mince, prepared as above, into it, cover all with a thin sheet 
of the paste cut to the proper size, and pinching the covering 
firmly to the lining paste at the edges, cut two or three 
gashes in the top, to let the steam escape while the pie is 
baking. Brush all over with a little white of egg or milk, 
and placing the tin in a quick oven, bake the pie for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Note. — ^There is a proverb that "mince meat becomes poison if 
minced too fine or kept too long," implying that it is impossible to 
do either. Mince prepared as above may be kept six months or a 
a year if desired. 



WHEAT BREAD. 179 

BREAD AND CAKES. 
BREAD. 

Wheat Bread. — ^Three and one half pounds of flour, one 
ounce of compressed yeast, one dessert-spoonful of salt, one 
and three quarters pint of tepid water. 

Place in a large mixing bowl or pan three pounds of the 
flour, and mix with it the salt. 

Put the yeast cake mio a bowl, and, covering it with the 
tepid water, let it dissolve. 

Make a hole in the centre of the flour, and into this pour 
the yeast and water, pouring it through a strainer to remove 
any remaining lump. Stir into this from the side the dry 
flour until all becomes smooth, and, covering the bowl, place 
it in a warm, dry place, giving its contents two hours in 
which to rise. 

At the end of this time sprinkle the remaining half pound 
of flour over the light dough, and knead all together until 
the dough cleaves cleanly from the sides of the bowl or pan. 

Divide the dough into two equal parts, mould these into 
loaves, and, greasing slightly two bread-pans, place the 
loaves therein, and set them in a warm place for half an hour 
to rise. When this time expires place the bread-pans into a 
moderate oven, and bake the bread for one hour and a half. 

When done, the bread should be placed upon a sieve or 
folded towel to cool before being put away, otherwise the 
steam which it generates, being put into a close place hot, will 
make it damp and heavy, and inclined to crumble when dry. 

Notes. — Rye bread may be made from wheaten potato sponge. 
The sponge must be set over night by taking three potatoes, boil- 
ing them, and mashing these in a half pint of the liquor in which 
they are boiled, stir in also wheat flour until a light batter is made, 
and, breaking into this half of a yeast cake, mix all thoroughly 
together and stand in a warm place to rise. With' the addition of 
this yeast, the rye bread is prepared in the same manner as the 
wheat. 

Flour should be sifted for bread as well as for pastries and cake. 



180 BREAD AND CAKES. 

Milk Bolls. — One pound of flour, one ounce of butter, 
one ounce of sugar, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one 
salt-spoonful of salt, one half pint of milk. 

Put the flour into a bowl, and rub into this the butter 
with the hands. Add to this the salt, half an ounce of the 
sugar, and the baking-powder. Make a well in the centre 
of the mixture, pour into it the milk^ stir into this the diy 
flour from the sides, and turning all out upon a mixing-board, 
knead all together as quickly and lightly as possible. Cut 
the dough into six pieces, and draw each piece quickly to 
the length of about four inches, with a sharp knife cut each 
roll twice across the top, place them side by side upon a 
slightly floured baking-tin, and bake them in a quick oven 
for twenty minutes. 

At the end of this time withdraw the tin from the oven, 
brush the rolls over with a little milk, sprinkle over their 
tops the remainder of the sugar, and return them to the oven 
for one minute to dry the milk. Serve hot 

Note. — In using baking-powder for dough, the quicker the mix- 
ture containing it is baked, and the less handled, the more satis- 
factory the result. 

French Bolls. — One ounce of butter, one salt-spoonful of 
salt, one half pint of milk, one egg, two table-spoonfuls of 
brewer's yeast, one and one half pound of flour. 

First place the butter and milk together in a tin basin, 
and placing this over the fire, let them heat until the milk 
becomes tepid. 

Put the yeast into a mixing-bowl, and pour over this the 
tepid mixture. Beat the egg thoroughly, and pour this also 
into the bowl, together witii the salt, stir into the mixture 
the flour, cover the bowl with a cloth, and stand it in a 
warm place for two hours, to allow its contents to become 
light. 

At the end of this time knead the light dough until it 
cleaves from the sides of the bowl, after which divide it 
into twelve rolls, form them upon a mixing-board, and place 
them on a slightly floured baking-tin, and allowing them to 



MILK BISCUIT — MUFFINS. 181 

stand to rise for twenty minutes, bake in a quick oven for 
ten minutes. Serve hot. 

Milk Biscuit. — One gill of milk, one ounce of butter, one 
tea-spoonful of baking-powder, one half pound of flour, one 
salt-spoonful of salt. 

Put the milk into a small sauce-pan together with the 
butter, and place all over the fire. 

When the milk becomes tepid, put the flour into a bowl, 
mix with it the salt and baking-powder, and pour into the 
centre of this the contents of the sauce-pan. Mix all to a 
stifl", smooth paste, turn this out upon a mixing-board, and 
roll it out as thinly as possible. 

Take a small biscuit-cutter and cut the dough into rounds, 
pricking each several times on the top with a fork. 

Arrange the biscuits upon a slightly greased baking-tin, 
and bake them in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. 

Muffins. — One pint of milk, one pint of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, two ounces of butter, three eggs. 

Put the flour into a bowl, mix with it the salt, make a 
little hole in the centre of the flour, and separating the whites 
from the yolks of the eggs, drop the yolks into this hole, and 
place the whites upon a plate. 

Melt the butter, taking care that it does not become hot, 
and pour this over the yolks of eggs, when the milk also 
must be poured in, and as it is poured the dry flour must be 
worked in from the sides. 

When all the flour is mixed in, the mixture should be 
beaten until bubbles arise upon its surface. 

Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this 
lightly into the batter. 

Slightly grease and heat twelve mufiBmi rings, place them 
into a baking-pan, and pour into them equal parts of the 
batter, when they must be put into a very quick oven and 
baked for ten minutes. Serve hot 

Note. — ^A very delicious muffin may also be made after this 
recipe of equal parts of com meal and wheat flour. 



182 BREAD AND CAKE& 

Tibbie Shiers or Girdle Scones.— One pound of floor, 
one tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, one half tea-spoonful 
of cream of tartar, one half tea-spoonful of salt, three gills 
of butter milk. 

Put the flour into a bowl and mix through it the salt ; 
place the soda and cream of tartar upon a plate, and make all 
smooth with the back of a tea-spoon. Mix this also with the 
flour, pour in the butter milk, and stir all thoroughly together. 

Flour a mixing-board, pour the batter out upon this, and, 
adding a little flour from time to time to prevent sticking, 
knead the batter until it becomes a dough, stiff enough to 
roll out. 

Cut the dough in two pieces, and roll each piece out round 
and to about half an inch in thickness. Divide each round 
into four pieces, place them on a heated girdle, and bake 
them fifteen minutes, turning them once meantime. Serve 
cold with butter. 

Soda Scones.— One pound of flour, two ounces of butter, 
one ounce of sugar, one tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, 
one half tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, three gills of butter 
milk, one half tea-spoonful of salt. 

Put the flour into a bowl, mix through it the salt, and 
then rub into it the butter. Put the soda and cream of 
tartar together upon a plate, and rub them free of lumps 
with the back of a spoon, after which mix them in with the 
flour and butter. 

Add to this mixture half of the sugar and all of the milk, 
and when these are stirred thoroughly in, pour the batter 
out upon a floured mixing-board. Knead it with a little 
dry flour until stiff enough to roll out, when, cutting the 
dough in two pieces, roll each of them to a round about half an 
inch in thickness, and marking each with a sharp knife from 
side to side at right angles, place them on a slightly floured 
baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 

At the end of this time draw the tin from the oven long 
enough to brush the scones over with a little butter milk, 
sprinkle them with the remaining sugar, and return them 



FOLDED ROLLS. 183 

to the oven for one minute. Cool the scones upon a sieve 
or folded towel before serving. 

Note. — In using soda, care should be taken that the quantity 
given is not exceeded, and when a tea-spoonful is required, the 
spoon should be just level full, otherwise the preparation will be 
turned very yellow. 

Folded Bolls. — One pint of milk, two ounces of butter, 
two medium sized potatoes, one half tea-cupful of brewer^s 
yeast, one table-spoonful of sugar, one tea-spoonful of salt, 
two pounds of flour. 

Bring the milk first to a tepid degree of heat, add to it 
the butter, and, when the butter has melted, pour all into a 
mixing-bowl^ and add to these the potatoes, which must have 
been boiled and finely mashed. Mix in the salt and sugar, 
and thicken all with half of the flour. 

Cover the bowl with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to 
rise through the night. 

When light, knead the batter to a dough with the re- 
mainder of the flour, and let it rise the second time, the 
length of time required for this depending upon the quality 
of the yeast, heat, etc., but should not exceed an hour. 

When light, place the dough upon a board, roll it out to 
about an inch in thickness, and cut this into rounds with a 
large-sized biscuit-cutter. Have ready now in a saucer a 
little melted butter, and brush over one half of the roll with 
this, folding the other half over upon it. When this is done, 
arrange the rolls upon a slightly floured baking-tin, set them 
to rise for the third time, and, when this is done, place the 
tin into a quick oven and let the rolls bake therein for ten 
minutes. Serve hot. 

Note. — In preparing all yeasts and risen breads, care should be 
taken that the process of rising is not retarded by a chill, nor 
unduly accelerated by excessive heat, as the one will produce hard, 
heavy bread, and the other sour, hollow loaves. 

Ck)rn LniUL — One tea-cupful of com meal, two tea-cup- 
fols of wheat flour, one half tea-cupful of sugar, two ounces 



184 BREAD AND CAKES. . 

of butter, one half pint of sweet milk, three eggs, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder. 

The flour, com meal, and sugar must first be well mixed 
together, and the baking-powder must be added to these. 
Melt the butter and pour it into the centre of the prepared 
flour, and mix all to a batter with the milk. 

Break the eggs into a small bowl, and beat them until 
very light, pour this over the batter and stir it in. 

Grease a bread-pan or pudding-dish, and pour the batter 
into it, filling it about half full. Place this in a quick oven, and 
bake for twenty minutes. Serve hot, covered with a napkin. 

Note. — If com bread is preferred not sweetened^ the sugar may 
be left out of the above preparation. 

(Palettes. — One ounce of compressed yeast, one dessert- 
spoonful of sugar, one and one half gill of milk, one gill of 
cold water, two pounds of flour, seven eggs. 

Put the yeast and the sugar into a mixing-bowL Bring 
the milk and water to a tepid degree of heat, and^ pour- 
ing this over the powdered yeast and sugar, stir these toge- 
ther until both sugar and yeast dissolve. 

Mix into this as much flour as will make a firm dough, 
covered with a towel, and place it in a warm place to rise, 
which will take about two hours. 

Put into another bowl one pound of the flour, and into 
this drop one by one the eggs. To this add half a gill of 
milk, and beat all together with the hand for fifteen minutes. 

When the dough has risen, mix into it the beaten flour, 
egg, and milk ; beat all again with the hand until the dif- 
ferent components are thoroughly blended. 

Set this again for two hours in a warm place to rise, add 
the remainder of the flour, and knead the dough slightly. 
Cut from it pieces of dough, which should be moulded in 
the hands to the shape and size of a large egg. Gash them 
over the surface with a pair of scissors, place them upon a 
slightly floured baking-tin, let stand for a short time to re- 
sume their lightness, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen 
minutes, drawing them out, however, when about half done, 



SULTANA CAKE. 185 

long enough to sprinkle each galette with a little sugar. 
Serve either hot or cold according to taste. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 
CAKES. 

Sultana Cake. — One half pound of flour, one quarter of 
a pound of butter, one quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, 
one quarter of a pound of sultana raisins, one tea-spoonful 
of baking-powder, rind of one lemon, one ounce of citron, 
one half gill of milk, two eggs. 

First line a cake tin with a sheet of greased kitchen-paper, 
put the flour into a mixing-bowl, and rub into it the butter 
with the hands. Add to these the baking-powder and the 
grated rind of lemon, and, cutting the citron into thin small 
slices, stir this in also. 

Put the eggs and sugar together in a small bowl ; beat 
these until very light ; stir into this the milk, after which 
the mixture should be poured into the mixing-bowl, and all 
thoroughly beaten together. 

Place the raisins into a towel and rub them in this until 
the stems and all extraneous matter are rubbed olf, pick 
them out and stir into the cake batter as quickly as possible, 
and, pouring all into the prepared baking-pan, bake the cake 
in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. 

When done, remove the cake from the oven and place it 
upon a sieve to cool. 

NoTE8.~The cake tins should always be prepared before the 
cake, because when baking-powder is used there should be no 
delay in baking, as it effervesces but once, and the mixture to be 
nused should be firmed by the heat while the baking-powder is 
doing its work. 

For this same reason the raisins should also be prepared prior 
to the stirring of the cake, and added last, because, being heavy, 
they naturally sink to the bottom of the mixture if allowed to 
stand. Raisins should never be washed, as it is extremely diffi- 
cult to dry them thoroughly, and the moisture which they would 



186 BREAD AND CAKES. 

gather in being washed mnst inevitably cause heaviness in what- 
ever they are used. 

Cakes should always be tested before being removed from the 
oven with a skewer or clean broom splint, for the reason that if 
exposed to a chill before thoroughly done they will always fall. 
If done, the skewer or broom splint will come out of the cake 
without any dough clinging thereto. The oven should always be 
kept closed imtil the cake dough firms, and opened thereafter as 
little as is consistent 'with the proper watching of the baking. 

Cream Cake. — One tea-cupful of sugar, two tea-cupfuls 
of flour, one tea-spoonful of soda, two tea-spoonfuls of cream 
of tartar, four eggs, one half pint of milk, one table-spoonful 
of flour, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, one egg, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, six drops of essence of almond. 

Put the flour and sugar into a mixing-bowl, and rub them 
together. 

Place the soda and cream of tartar upon a plate, and rub 
the lumps out of them with the back of a spoon, and, mixing 
these with the sugar and flour, make a hole in the centre of 
the dry ingredients, and drop into it one by one the yolks 
of the four eggs. 

Place the whites of eggs upon a dry plate, and with a dry 
knife whip them to a stiff froth, after i^rhich stir the froth 
lightly together with the contents of the mixing-bowL 

Grease well with butter four jelly cake tins, spread an 
equal portion of the cake batter upon each, and bake these 
in a quick oven for seven minutes. 

While the cakes are baking, put the milk, into which 
throw the salt, into a sauce-pan over the fire, and bring it to 
the boiling-point 

While this is boiling, beat the one egg until very light, 
stir into this a table-spoonful of flour and two table-spoon- 
fuls of sugar, and when the milk boils, remove it from the 
fire, let it cool for one minute, and add to it the egg mixture. 

Betum the sauce-pan to the fire, and let its contents boil 
for one minute, stirring it meanwhile to prevent scorching. 

Take the sauce-pan again from the fire, and drop into it 
the essence of almond, and removing the caJces from the tins. 



ORANGE CAKE — SNOW CAKE. 187 

place them one upon the other upon a flat dish, spreading 
between each layer of cake equal portions of the cream from 
the sauce-pan. Serve with a little powdered sugar sprinkled 
over the top. 

Note. — Jelly cakes may be made also from this recipe, substitut- 
ing jelly for the cream, and with this purpose the ingredients for 
the cake and cream have been given in separate quantities. 

Orange Cake. — Two ounces of butter, six ounces of 
sugar, two tea-cupfuls of flour, one half tea-cupful of sweet 
milk, one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, one half tea- 
spoonful of soda, three eggs, one orange. 

Put the flour, butter, and three oimces of the sugar in a 
mixing-bowl. Rub them all lightly together, and making a 
well in the centre, drop into it the yolks of the eggs. Eub 
the cream of tartar and soda smooth of lumps, and stir them 
into the milk. Pour this over the yolks of eggs, and stii 
all well together. Whip the whites of two eggs to a stifi 
froth, mix this lightly in with the contents of the mixing- 
bowl, and greasing three jelly cake tins, spread the batter 
in equal portions over each. Bake these cakes in a quick 
oven for seven minutes. 

* While the cakes are baking, grate into a sieve the rind 
from the orange, place the sieve over a bowl, and squeeze 
through it the juice of the orange, passing the grated dust 
of the orange rind through at the same time. 

Whip the remaining white of egg to a stiff froth, and add 
to this froth, by degrees, the remaining three ounces of 
sugar and the orange preparation. 

Bemove the cakes from the oven to a sieve, and when 
they become cool, arrange them one upon the other upon a 
flat plate, spreading between each layer of cake equal por- 
tions of the orange icing. 

Snow Cake. — One pound of arrow-root, one half pound 
of powdered sugar, one half pound of butter, whites of six 
eggs, one tea-spoonful of essence of lemon. 

Pass the arrow-root through a wire sieve to remove the 



188 BREAD AND OAKES. 

lumps. Beat the sugar and butter together to a cream, and 
add to these, by degrees, the arrow-root, beating the mixture 
constantly while sprinkling the arrow-root in. 

Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add these 
also to the mixture, after which beat all together for twenty 
minutes, until the mixture becomes a very smooth batter, 
and looks very white. 

Add to the batter the lemon- juice, grease a cake tin with 
butter, and pour the batter into it, and placing this in a 
moderate oven, bake the cake for one hour and a half. 

Ponnd Cake. — One pound of flour, one pound of butter, 
one pound of sugar, eight eggs, one wine-glassful of brandy, 
one salt-spoonful of salt, rind of two lemons. 

Break the eggs into a bowl and beat them until very 
light. 

Place the sugar in a large bowl, add to it the butter, and 
beat both to a cream. Stir into this cream the flour and 
the beaten eggs, pouring each in in alternate small portions, 
until all is weU beaten together. 

Add to the mixture the grated lemon rind, the salt and 
brandy, stir these until thoroughly blended, when, greasing 
a cake tin, pour into it the cake batter, and placing this in 
a moderate oven, bake the cake for one hour and three- 
quarters. 

When done, place the cake immediately upon a sieve to 
cool. 

Sponge Cake. — ^Three tea-cupfuls of sugar, three tea- 
cupfuls of flour, ten eggs, rind of one lemon, one table- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. 

Put the sugar into a mixing-bowl, and separating the 
yolks from the whites of the eggs, place the whites upon a 
plate and drop the yolks one by one into the sugar, and beat 
these together for half an hour. 

Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this in 
with the contents of the mixing-bowL Add to the mixture, 
by degrees, the flour, beating all constantly, and as the 



ROCK CAKE — YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. 189 

flour is being beaten in, sprinkle in from time to time the 
lemon-juice and the grated rind of lemon. 

Pour the batter without any delay into a baking-tin that 
has been greased with butter, and placing the tin in a 
moderate oven, let the cake bake therein for an hour and a 
half. 

Bock Cake. — One pound of flour, three ounces of butter, 
three ounces of sugar, three ounces of sultana raisins, two 
eggs, one tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, one half gill of 
milk, two tea-spoonf uk of baking-powder. 

Put the flour into a mixing-bowl, add to it the butter^ 
and rub these thoroughly together with the hands. 

When this is done, add to the mixture the sugar, ginger, 
and baking-powder, and rub these also until well mixed. 

Place the raisins in a towel, and rubbing from them the 
stems, pick them out and throw them into the mixture, 
stirring lightly while doing so. 

Put the eggs into a small bowl, beat them until very light, 
add to them the milk, and stir this into the dry ingredients 
in the mixing-bowl, which should bring the mixture to a 
dough stiff enough to hold the spoon perpendicular in the 
centre. 

Grease with butter a flat baking-tin, take two forks and 
lift with them rough pieces of the dough, and place them 
upon the tin. 

Place the tin in a very hot oven, and bake the cake for 
fifteen minutes. Serve when cool. 

Yorkshire Tea Cakes.— Three eggs, one pint of milk, 
one half tea-spoonful of salt, one piece of sal volatile, the 
size of a pea, one pound of flour. 

Break the eggs into a bowl and beat them until very 
light Add to them the milk, and dissolving the sal volatile 
and salt in sufficient water to cover them, add this to the 
milk and eggs, and add to the liquids the flour, by degrees, 
and beat all well together. 

Grease some shallow tins the size of breakfast saucers, fill 



190 BREAD AND CAKE& 

them half full with the batter, and placing them in a quick 
oven, bake them for fifteen minutes. 

NOTKB. — If tins of the given size are not available, delf Bauoers 
may be used for baking these cakes. 
These cakes make also a delicious breakfast dish. 

Frnit Cake. — ^Two pounds of raisins, one pound of cur- 
rants, one pound of citron, one pound of flour, four eggs, 
one half pint of milk, one pound of sugar, one quarter pound 
of butter. 

Seed and pick the stems from the raisins, after which 
chop them roughly. Wash and dry the currants and put 
them together with the chopped raisins in a mixing-bowL 
Hub together the butter and flour, and stir this in with the 
fruit, after which cut the citron into thin slices, and mix 
these in also, adding at the same time the sugar. 

Break the eggs into a separate bowl and beat them until 
very light, add to them the milk, and pour this liquid over 
the fruit mixture, stirring all well together. 

Put the cake mixture into a greased bread-pan, and bake 
in a slow oven for two hours. 

NoTK. — Spices may be used in fruit cake if desired, also a wine- 
glassful of brandy, and it will always be profitable, if convenient, 
to double or even treble the quantities here given for this cake, as 
the larger the bulk of fniit, the more delicious the cake, and also 
the longer fruit cake is kept the better it becomes. 

Busks (a hot Tea Oake).— Six ounces of flour, one half 
tea-cupful of sugar, two ounces of butter, one and one-half 
tea-cupful of sweet milk, one egg^ one tea-spoonful of car- 
bonate of soda, three tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

Place in a bowl the flour, rub into it with the Angers the 
butter, then mix in the sugar. 

Make the soda and cream of tartar quite smooth by 
placing them on a plate and with the point of a knife rub- 
bing out the lumps, then add' them to the flour. 

Mix all well together, and drop into the centre the eggy 
which must first be lightly beaten, add by degrees the milk. 



POPOVERS — TIPSY CAKE. 191 

and when a stiff batter is formed, pour the mixture into a 
well-greased Yorkshire pudding-tin, and bake in a quick 
oven for twenty minutes. 

Note. — ^As the quantity of moisture required depends so much 
on the quality of the flour, judgment must be used in adding the 
milk : enough must only be used to form a very stiff batter. 

Popovers (for Tea). — One cupful of milk, one cupful of 
flour, one egg, one pinch of salt. 

Place on a baking-tin six or eight patty-tins, and two 
hours before the popovers are required place the baking-tin 
in the oven. 

Place in a bowl the flour, add the salt, and drop into the 
centre the yolk of egg. 

The milk must then be carefully added, the mixture being 
constantly stirred with the back of a spoon. The more this 
mixture is beaten the lighter the popovers will be. 

Place on a dry plate the white of egg, and a very small 
pinch of salt) and with a dry knife whip the white to a stiff 
froth. 

When the popovers are to be baked, mix into the batter 
very lightly the white of egg. 

Draw the baking-tin from the oven and place into each 
patty-tin a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, half fill each 
with batter, put the baking-tiu quickly back into the oven, 
and bake twenty minutes. 

Note. — ^A very hot oven is necessary for the popovers, and they 
ought to be sent to table the instant they are removed from the 
oven. 

Tipsy Cake. — One pound sponge cake, three table-spoon- 
fuls strawberry jam, one quarter pound almonds, one gill and 
one half sherry. 

Cut the sponge through the middle (horizontally), place 
each half on a flat dish of any kind, and pour over each half, 
in spoonfuls, the sherry, and let them soak a little. 

Place now the under half of the cake on a crystal dish, 
spread over it the jam, then place the top half over very 



192 BRKAKFA8T DISHES. 

carefullj. The cake will then have its original shape. Pour 
now over the almonds a little boiling water, take off their 
skins, cut each almond in half (lengthwise), and stick them 
all over the sui-face of the cake. Pour round a custard 
sauce, directions for which will be found on page 159. 

NoTK. — Stale cake is best for this receipt; great care must be 
taken not to break the cake after it is soaked. 

Com Floor Cake. — One half pound com flour, six ounces 
butter, six ounces sugar, one half tea-cupful flour, one tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, one half tea-spoonful soda, four 
eggs. 

Make the soda and cream of tartar very smooth by rub- 
bing out the lumps with the back of a spoon. 

Place the flour and com flour in a bowl, and mix well the 
soda and cream of tartar with them. 

Put now in a separate bowl the butter, heat the bowl 
very slightly, then with a wooden spoon beat it to a cream, 
but take the greatest care not to oil it, or the cake will be 
heavy. 

Add now to the butter, by degrees, the sugar, com flour, 
and flour ; as the mixture gets stiff drop in the yolk of an 
egg to moisten it. 

When ail these ingredients are added, including yolks of 
eggs, whip the whites to a very stiff froth, and mix them 
in also. 

Line a cake-tin with a sheet of greased paper, pour in the 
mixture, and bake in rather a quick oven for forty minutes. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Sheep's Trotters. — Six sheep feet, two table-spoonfuls of 
cream, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, yolks of two 
eggs, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one tea-spoonful of 
salt, one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, one dessert-spoon- 
ful of sherry. 

When the feet have been scalded and scraped, put them 



calf's liver — SHEEP-HEAD PIE. 193 

into a sauce-pan, cover them with cold water, and place the 
saucer-pan over the fire. When this water boils, drain it off, 
and cover them again with water that is boiling ; allow them 
to simmer very slowly in this until the meat will separate 
from the bone. Take the feet from the sauce-pan, remove 
the bones, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put these 
pieces of meat into a fresh sauce-pan, and pour over them a 
pint and a half of the liquor in which the feet were boiled. 
Place this sauce-pan over the fire, and as the liquor boils 
up, skim it carefully. Add to the trotters the sherry, 
pepper, and salt, and let all simmer slowly together for 
twenty minutes. 

Beat in a bowl the yolks of eggs, add to them the chopped 
parsley and nutmeg, and taking the sauce-pan from the ^e, 
let its contents cool a little, and add thereto the egg mix- 
ture from the bowl. 

Stir all well together, adding at the last moment the 
cream, and serve at once. 

Calf's Liver. — One and one-half pound of calf s liver, one 
quarter pound of bacon, one tea-spoonful of mixed herbs, 
one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, 
yolks of two eggs, one tea-cupful of cream. 

Place the liver in a sauce-pan over the fire, and covering 
it with cold water, let it boil therein for three-quarters of 
an hour. 

Take it from the water, allow it to become perfectly cool, 
and then grate it fine upon a carrot grater. Put the grated 
liver into a bowl, and chopping the bacon very fine, mix it 
therewith. 

Add to this mixture the herbs, pepper, and salt ; beat well 
together the yolks of the eggs and the cream, and mix these 
in also. 

Put all into a sauce-pan, and placing this over a very slow 
fire, stir the preparation until very hot, not at any time 
allowing it to boil. Serve upon a hot dish. 

Sheep-head Pie. — One sheep's head, one half pound of 

13 



194 BRKAKFA8T BISHCS. 

baoon, one tea-spoonfiil of pepper, one deaaert-spoonfal of 
salt, two hard-boiled egga, 

Wlien the sheepi's head is deaned, pat it into a sanoe- 
pan over the fire, and coTering it with cold water, bring 
it qniddj to the boiling-point; and when boilings skim the 
sorfaoe very carefnllj. Draw the saoce-pan to one side of 
the fire, and let its contents sinuner veiy slowly until the 
meat will separate from the bones. 

Take the head from the boiling water, remove the meat 
from the bones, and cat this into small piece& Skin the 
tongae and cat it into small pieces alsa Mix the tongae 
and the meat together, pat a layer of the mixture^ about an 
inch in thickness, into the bottom of a pie-diah, cover this 
with a layer of bacon, and over this one of the hard-boiled 
eggs cut in slices. Sprinkle over all some pepper and salt, 
and repeat the alternating layers of chopped meat^ bacon, 
and egg, until the materials are all filled into the disL 

Pour over the pie three gills of the liquor in which the 
head was boiled, cover all with a flaky crust (see page 173), 
and bake the pie in a quick oven for half an hour. This 
dish should be served cold. 

Deviled Turkey. — One pair of turkey legs, one half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one grain 
of cayenne. 

Cut the legs from a cold roast turkey, trim them neatly, 
sprinkle over them the pepper, salt, and cayenne; grease 
two sheets of letter paper, and wrap each leg in one of 
these, twisting the ends of the paper to secure it. 

Place the legs thus prepared in a broiler, and broil them 
for seven minutes over a dear fire. 

When broiled, remove the paper, and serve the legs very 
hot 

Kidney Omelette. — Eight eggs, four sheep kidneys, one 
giU of brown stock, one dessert-spoonful of mushroom 
catchup, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one half tea-spoon- 
ful of salt, one half ounce of flour, three ounces of butter. 



HAM OMELBTTEL 195 

Pat one ounce of the butter into a sauce-pan. Cut each 
kidney into eight pieces, put the flour upon a plate, and roll 
the pieces of kidney in it until they are completely blanketed 
with the flour. Throw the kidney into the hot butter, and 
brown each piece well upon both sides. Pour into the sauce- 
pan, over the browned kidney, the stock and catchup ; season 
all with half of the pepper and salt ; and covering ^e sauce- 
pan draw it to the side of the fire, and let its contents cook 
very slowly for one hour. 

Beat in a bowl the eggs until the yolks and whites are 
mixed, sprinkle over them the remainder of the pepper and 
salt, melt an ounce of the butter in an omelette-pan, pour 
into this half of the well-beaten egg, and stir this with a 
spoon until it begins to firm around the edges ; after which 
it should remain upon the fire until the egg becomes nearly 
all firm. 

Put upon the omelette half of the stewed kidney ; fold the 
omelette over so that the outer edges meet. Let it remain 
a minute longer in the pan, and turn it quickly out upon 
a hot platter. 

Eepeat this process with the remaining egg and kidney, 
and when the second omelette is ready, place it beside the 
first upon the platter, and serve as speedily as possible. 

Ham Omelette. — Eight eggs, one tea-spoonful of pepper, 
one tea-spoonful of salt, two ounces of butter, three table- 
spoonfuls of cold boiled ham, chopped. 

Break the eggs into a bowl, and beat them with a wooden 
spoon imtil the yolks and whites blend. 

Melt one ounce of the butter in an omelette-pan, stir into 
the beaten egg the chopped ham, pepper, and salt, and pour 
half of the mixture into the pan with the hot butter. 

Stir all until the omelette begins to set at the edges ; draw 
all down to one side of the pan, and when it becomes firm 
on the under side, turn the omelette quickly over to the 
other side of the pan, without breaking its form, and re- 
move the omelette to a hot platter. 

Eepeat this process for the second omelette, the cooking 



196 BREAKFAST DISHSa 

of which shonld only take about two minutes, and serve 
both as quickly as possible. 

Dried Herb Omelettes. — One dessert-spoonful of chopped 
parsley, two tea-spoonfuls of dried mixed herbs, a piece of 
eschalot the size of a bean, eight eggs, one half tea-spoonful 
of pepper, one tea-spoonful of salt, two ounces of butter. 

Put the eggs into a bowl, and with them the chopped 
parsley, dried herbs, pepper, and salt. Chop the eschalot 
finely, and throw it in also. 

Beat all together until the eggs are thoroughly blended, 
the yolks with the whites. Melt in an omelette-pan one 
ounce of the butter, and when the blue smoke arises pour 
into it half of the mixture from the bowl, and stir this until 
the omelette begins to firm at the edges. 

Draw all down to one side of the pan, and when the 
omelette becomes firm on the under side, turn it over to 
the other side of the pan, and transfer it from this at once 
to a hot platter. 

Repeat this process of cooking with the remaining ome- 
lette mixture, and with as much despatch as is possible; 
place the second omelette beside the firsts and serve im- 
mediately. 

Note. — Omelettes shoidd always be cooked over a yeiy quick 
fire, and shotdd never consume more than two minutes m the domg. 

Eggs an Plat. — Eight eggs, eight table-spoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, foiu* ounces of butter, one tea-spoonful of pepper, 
one tea-spoonful of salt. 

Spread half of the bread crumbs upon a platter, sprinkle 
over them half of the pepper and salt, and distribute over 
this, in small pieces, two ounces of the butter. 

Break over this, one by one, the eggs, arrangmg them in 
a circle upon the bread crumbs ; sprinkle over them the re- 
maining bread crumbs, pepper, and salt ; also distribute over 
this the remainder of the butter, in small pieces, and place 
the platter in a hot oven for ten minutes. 

When done, the bread crumbs should show a surface of 



SCRAMBLED EGOS — CURRIED EGGS. 197 

pale brown, and the eggs be cooked rare. Serve upon the 
same platter on which the dish is prepared. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Eight eggs, one and one-half gill of 
cream, four ounces of butter, one tea-spoonful of salt, one 
half tea-spoonful of pepper. 

Put the cream and butter together in a small sauce-pan 
over the fire, and stir them until the butter melts. Take 
the sauce-pan from the fire and break into it the eggs. 
Sprinkle over these the pepper and salt, and returning the 
sauce-pan to the fire, stir its contents with a fork briskly 
until the eggs begin to firm. When this takes place, turn 
all quickly out upon a hot dish and serve at once. 

Eggs on Toast. — Eight eggs, two slices of buttered toast, 
one half tea-spoonful of salt, one dessert-spoonful of lemon- 
juice. 

Place a shallow sauce-pan over the fire, fill it nearly full 
of boiling water, and into this throw the salt and lemon-juice. 

Break the eggs one by one into a tea-cup, and pour them 
gently from this into the water, letting each egg form before 
another is put in. 

Allow two minutes and a half to each egg, and removing 
them from the water with a skimmer, place them, so drained, 
upon the slices of buttered toast. 

Cnrried Eggs. — Eight eggs, three ounces of butter, one 
and one-haJf ounce of flour, three gills of white stock, one 
table-spoonful of curry-powder, one half tea-spoonful of salt, 
one half tea-spoonful of sugar, one tea-spoonful of vinegar. 

Drop the eggs into a sauce-pan of boiling water, and let 
them boil therein for ten minutes. 

Throw them, when boiled, into a basin of cold water to 
cool, and while they are cooling melt the butter in a small 
sauce-pan, stir into it the dry flour and curry-powder, add 
the stock by degrees ; and when this mixture reaches the 
boiling-point, let it continue to boil for two minutes there- 
after. 



198 BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Throw in the salt, sugar, and vinegar, and draw the sauce- 
pan aside from the fire. 

Take the shells from the eggs and cut them into halves, 
put them into the sauce-pan with the prepared curry, and 
allow all to remain over the fire until the eggs are heated 
through, taking care, however, that the mixture does not 
boil; as this will cause the eggs to break up and so injure 
the appearance of the dish. 

When done pour all carefully into a hot deep dish, and 
serve with boiled rice. 

Mushrooms. — One and one-half dozen of large, fresh 
mushrooms, four table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, one eschalot, 
one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one half tea-spoonful of 
salt, two ounces of butter. 

Take eight of the largest mushrooms, skin them, and cut 
off the stalks. 

Chop the eschalot as finely as possible, and chop also 
finely the remainder of the mushrooms. 

Put the butter into a frying-pan, and place this over the 
fire, letting the butter melt and become hot. Brown in 
this the eschalot and chopped mushrooms, sprinkle over 
them the pepper and salt, and stuff the centre of the eight 
skinned mushrooms with this mixture. 

Sprinkle over each of these equal portions of the bread 
crumbs, place the mushrooms into a baking-tin, and placing 
this in a brisk oven, let them bake therein until a skewer 
will easily penetrate to the centres of the mushrooms. 

Take the mushrooms, when done, carefully from the tin, 
to avoid breaking them or disarranging the stufiing in their 
centres, and serve them in a hot dish. 

Potato 8aut£ — One quart of potatoes, one and one half 
ounce of butter, one tea-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful 
of white pepper. 

Young potatoes should be used for this preparation, and 
should be first scraped, then thrown into boiling water, and 
allowed to boil rapidly for ten minutes. Drain the water 



STUFFED POTATOES — DRESDEN PATTIES. 199 

carefully from them, cover the sauce-pan, and let the pota- 
toes cook in their own steam until a fork will pierce easily 
to their centres. 

When done, sprinkle over the potatoes the pepper and 
salt, throw in with these the butter^ and shake the sauce-pan 
over the fire until the potatoes become a pale brown upon 
their surfaces. Serve very hot. 

NoTK. — Old potatoes may be used for a saut^ if young ones are 
out of season; and when the old potatoes are so used, they should 
be cut into balls or other fanciful small shapes. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Eight large potatoes, one pound of 
beef-steak, one dessert-spoonful of mushroom catchup, one 
tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one 
grain of cayenne, two ounces of butter, one e^. 

Wash and pare the potatoes thinly, and cut off about an 
inch of the smaller end. With a strong tea-spoon scrape 
out the centre of the potato, leaving a shell of potato un- 
broken about a third of an inch in thickness; and throw 
these shells and their tops into cold water, to keep them 
white until used. 

Chop the steak very finely, add to this the pepper, salt^ 
catchup, and cayenne, and stir all together. 

Take the potatoes from the water, and, drying them 
thoroughly with a towel, pack the meat mixture firmly into 
them. 

Beat the egg until very light, and roll in this both the 
stuffed potatoes and the tops, and cover the meat stuffing 
with the top cut from each potato, pressed firmly on. 

Melt the butter in a shallow sauce-pan, and when the 
blue smoke arises place the potatoes carefully in the hot 
butter, that the tops may not be disarranged ; and, covering 
the sauce-pan, let the potatoes cook slowly therein for one 
hour, turning them occasionally in order that they may 
brown evenly on all sides. 

Serve in a hot vegetable dish. 

Dresden Patties. — ^Two slices of white bread, three 



200 BREAKFAST DISHES. 

table-spoonfuls of cream, four table-spoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, one half pound of cold boiled salmon, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one ounce 
of butter, one half ounce of flour, one gill of milk, one 

egg. 
Shred the salmon in small pieces, removing from it all the 

skin and bone. 

Melt the butter in a small sauce-pan, stir into this the 
flour, add the milk, and stir all together until boiling. 

Throw into this mixture the shredded salmon, and season 
all with half of the pepper and salt. Cover the sauce-pan, 
and, drawing it to one side of the fire, let its contents sim- 
mer, but not boil, until the fish is heated through. 

The slices of bread should be cut at least an inch and a 
half thick, and cut a large round from each with a biscuit- 
cutter. With a smaller cutter cut these rounds half- way 
through in the centre. 

Put the cream upon a plate, and dip the rounds in this 
quickly, in order that they may not soak soft ; beat the egg 
thoroughly, and roll the rounds in this ; after which, season 
the bread crumbs with the remaining pepper and salt, and 
roll the rounds in these also. 

Throw the prepared rounds into hot clarified fat or lard, 
and fry them for three minutes. Take them from the fat, 
drain them upon kitchen-paper, and splitting carefully off 
with a sharp knife the inner round to the depths at which 
it is cut, scrape out from the centre of the large round all of 
the bread remaining soft. 

Into this bread cup fill in equal portions the fish mixture, 
and place over this the small rounds of bread. Serve the 
patties garnished with sprigs of parsley. 

Note. — These patties may also be made with oysters, lobsteis, 
truffles, mushrooms, or any kind of boiled fish. 

Chickens' Livers. — One and one-half dozen of chickens^ 
livers, one quarter of a pound of fat bacon, one salt-spoonful 
of pepper, one salt-spoonful of salt. 

Place the livers into a sauce-pan, cover them with cold 



pig's feet. 201 

water, throw in the salt, and, bringing the water quickly to 
the boiling-point, let the livers boil for five minutes. 

When done, remove the livers from the water, slice them 
lengthwise carefully, in order not to break them, and, 
cutting the bacon into very thin slices, and of a size similar 
to the slices of liver, thread alternate slices of liver and 
bacon upon a spit, and broil aU over a bright fire five 
minutes, turning them constantly in order that they may 
brown evenly. 

When broiled, sprinkle over all the pepper, and send 
them to the table on the spit. 

NoTB. — ^Livers of chicken or turkey boiled in the manner above 
described may also be served with a hot, thick brown sauce poured 
over them, with the addition, if desired, of a litUe chopped onion, 
browned in butter. 

Fig's Feet. — Four pig's feet, one and one-half pint of 
milk, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of 
pepper, one ounce of flour. 

When the feet are cleaned and scraped, cut them each 
across the knuckle, deep enough to let the water penetrate 
to the joint. 

Place them in a large sauce-pan, cover them with cold 
water, and, putting all over the fire, let the water boil up. 
When this occurs, drain the first water off. 

Cover the feet with boiling water, and allow them to boil 
in this very slowly until the meat becomes tender. 

Pour the water off again, cover the feet with the milk, and 
let them simmer in this very slowly for half an hour longer. 

Mix the flour in a bowl with a little cold water, and beat 
it smooth. Stir this into the milk in the sauce-pan, 
sprinkle in also the pepper and salt, and let aU cook toge- 
ther for five minutes, when the feet should be removed to a 
hot, deep platter, and served with the sauce poured over them. 

NoTB. — Pig's feet are also very delicious broiled, and are prepared 
by firet boiling until tender, as directed above. When cool, they 
should be rubbed over with butter, placed in a broiler, and broiled 
for ten minutes over a dear fire. 



202 BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Boiled OatxneaL — One quart of cold water, eight table- 
spoonfuls of oatmeal, one half dessert-spoonful of salt. 

Put the water into a sauce-pan, sprinkle in the oatmeal, 
stirring constantly, and when all has been made smooth, 
place the sauce-pan over a quick fire, and stir its contents 
until boiling. 

When boiling, throw into the porridge the salt, and draw 
the sauce-pan to one side of the fire ; let all simmer slowly 
for half an hour, stirring it occasionally meantime. 

NoTB. — Oatmeal shotdd always be thrown into cold water when 
desired to boil, as cold water swells the grain of the meal better, 
and makes it less heating to the blood. 

Boiled Bice. — One half pound of rice, three quarts of 
boiling water, one dessert-spoonful of salt. 

Wash the rice thoroughly in cold water, and drain it in a 
strainer. Place it into a sauce-pan, pour over it the three 
quarts of boiling water, throw into it the salt, and allow all 
to boil rapidly for fifteen minutes. If at the end of this 
time a grain of the rice may be readily floured by rubbing 
it between the finger and thumb, it is sufficiently boiled ; 
but if it be still hard, continue to boil until the rice comes 
to this state, keeping in mind that the quicker this cereal 
is boiled, the drier it will remain, and the more free from 
starchy matter. 

Pour the rice, when done, from the sauce-pan into a 
sieve, shaking the sieve as the water drains off, to release 
any fugitive drops that may be held in the cereal; and 
when dry serve at once, heaped lightly in a hot vegetable 
dish. 

Notes. — ^When rice is desired to fry, it must be boiled slowly 
and without stirring, in milk; and when boiled, cat into slices an 
inch thick, and fried in hot clarified fat or lard, until it becomes a 
delicate brown on both sides. 

Com meal mush, which is made by stirring sifted com meal into 
boiling water, until a batter as thick as can be stirred with a spoon 
is formed, is also delicious fried in this way or in hot butter, as the 
taste may decide. 



CASSEROLE OF CHICKEN BOILED TRIPE. 203 

Casserole of Chicken. — Four ounces of cold breast of 
chicken, four ounces of butter, four ounces of bread crumbs, 
two eggs, one half tea-cupful of milk, one tea-spoonful of 
salt, one half tea-spoonful of white pepper. 

Chop first the breast of chicken very finely, and rub it 
through a wire sieve. 

Put the meat into a bowl, add to it the yolks of the eggs 
and the butter, and beat all together for ten minutes. 

Add the bread crumbs and the milk, season all with the 
pepper and salt. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
and mix this lightly in. 

Pour the compound, when thoroughly mixed, into a well- 
greased pint and a half mould, cover the top of this with a 
piece of paper, and place the mould in a sauce-pan contain- 
ing sufficient water to reach half-way up the sides of the 
mould, and allow its contents to cook in this while the water 
boils for one hour. 

Turn the casserole, when done, out into a deep, hot dish, 
and serve with egg sauce poured over and around it; for 
which sauce see recipe on page 155. 

This dish may be garnished with red and green chillise, if 
desired. 

Boiled Tripe. — Eight pounds of tripe, one half table- 
spoonful of salt. 

Cover the tripe with cold water, and let it stand in this 
over night 

Bemoving it from the bath, place it in a sauce-pan, cover 
it with cold water, put the sauce-pan over a quick fire, and, 
when boiling, drain the water off, and cover it with addi- 
tional cold water. 

Continue to drain off and re-cover the ttipe with successive 
quantities of cold water, until the water at last boils up 
quite clear, and ceases to give off a disagreeable odour. 
Draw the sauce-pan to one side of the fire, and allow its 
contents to simmer very slowly for five hours, keeping the 
pan covered that the water may not boil away. 

When done, add the salt, and the tripe is ready to 



204 BREAKFAST DISHE& 

dress in any manner desired, or may be served simply as 
it is. 

Tripe with Onion Sauce.— Two pounds of boiled tripe, 
three gills of milk, one half tea-spoonful of white pepper, 
one Spanish onion. 

Cut the tripe into small irregular pieces. Put these into 
a sauce-pan, cover them with the milk, and allow all to stew 
over a alow fire for half an hour. 

Throw the onion into boiling water, and boil it also for 
half an hour. Take the onion, when done, from the water, 
drain it thoroughly, and chop it very finely. 

When the tripe has cooked in the milk the appointed 
length of time, draw the sauce-pan aside from the fire, and 
stir into it the chopped onion. Season all with the pepper, 
and serve at once. 

Baked Tripe. — Two pounds of boiled tripe, four ounces 
of bread crumbs, two eggs, one half pint of the liquor in 
which the tripe is boiled, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half 
tea-spoonful of pepper. 

Cut the tripe into small irregular pieces, and put a layer, 
a half inch deep, of it into the bottom of a deep dish. 
Sprinkle over this a layer of the bread crumbs and a little 
of the pepper and salt, and continue these alternating layers 
of tripe, seasoning, and bread crumbs until the material is 
all filled into the dish, leaving a last layer of bread crumbs 
upon the top. 

Put the eggs into a bowl and beat them until very light 
Add to them the tripe liquor, stir these together, and pour 
the mixture over the tripe and bread crumbs in the dish. 

Place the dish in a moderate oven, and let its contents 
bake half an hour, when it must be served in the dish in 
which it is prepared. 

Notes. — ^When the liquor in which the tripe is boiled is not 
available, milk or water may be substitated for it. 

In boiHng tripe, the salt should never be used until the tripe is 
done, otherwise it wiU be discoloured thereby. 



BRAIN CAKES — STEWED KIDNET& 205 

Brain Oakes. — ^Brain of two calves' heads, two eggs, one 
ounce of butter, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, one 
tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea-spoonful of pepper, one 
salt-spoonful of powdered mace, four table-spoonfuls of 
bread crumbs. 

Throw the brains into a strong mixture of salt and water, 
and let them remain in this for an hour. 

Put them into a sauce-pan over the fire, cover them 
with cold water, and allow tiiem to boil therein for twenty 
minutes. 

At the end of this time take them from the water, chop 
them into rough pieces, place these in a bowl, and rub into 
them the butter. Add to the brains two table-spoonfuls of 
the bread crumbs, and season all with the pepper, salt, and 
mace. 

When these are mixed, sprinkle over the preparation the 
chopped parsley, and drop in upon it the yolks of the eggs. 

Beat all well together, and flouring the hands slightly to 
prevent sticking, form the mixture into small, flat, round 
cakes. 

Whip the whites of the eggs, dip the cakes into this, roll 
them in the remainder of the bread crumbs, throw them 
into hot clarified fat or lard for two minutes. When done 
drain them for a moment upon a piece of kitchen-paper, 
and serve them in a folded napkin garnished with sprigs of 
parsley. 

Stewed Kidneys. — One ox kidney, one quarter pound 
flour, two ounces butter, two ounces fat bacon, one large 
onion, eight cloves, one half tea-spoonful salt, one quarter 
tea-spoonful pepper. 

The day before this dish is required bring a large sauce- 
panful of water to boiling-point. 

Throw into the water the kidney, which has been previ- 
ously washed ; stick into the onion the cloves, and put it in 
also. Make now three ounces of the flour to a very stiff 
dough with a very little cold water, and roll out this dough 
round and the size of the top of the sauce-pan. 



206 BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Throw into the water the bacon, and cover all closely with 
the flour paste or dough. 

Cover the sauce-pan also closely, and allow the water to 
simmer slowly four hours. 

Bemove the kidney from the water, and let it stand on one 
side over night. 

Half an hour before this dish is to be sent to table melt 
in a pan the butter, and stir into it the remainder of the 
flour ; when mixed well, add by degrees three gills of the 
water in which the kidney was boiled, and stir all till 
boiling. 

Slice now in very thin slices the kidney, add the pieces to 
ingredients in sauce-pan, and when all has cooked slowly for 
ten minutes, sprinkle in the seasoning, and the dish is now 
ready for the table. 

Jellied Tongue. — One ox tongue, one quart beef stock, 
one ounce gelatine, one tea-spoonful whole white pepper, 
one tea-spoonful whole black pepper, one half gill cold 
water. 

Place the tongue in a large sauce-pan, pour over it suffi- 
cient water to cover it, place the pan on the fire, and when 
the water boils remove all the scum which rises with a 
spoon. 

Draw the pan then on one side, and allow the tongue to 
cook slowly till tender, allowing quarter of an hour to 
each pound. 

When the tongue is ready take it from the water, skin it 
and curl it up, and place it in a mould. Soak the gelatine 
for ten minutes in half a gill cold water ; place it in a sauce- 
pan with the stock and pepper-corns, stir all over the fire 
till boiling, and then pour the liquid through a flannel bag. 
Pour now the strained stock over the tongue in the mould, 
and when quite cold and firm turn out on a flat dish. 



BREAKFAST COFFEE — TEAS. 207 



TEAS, OOPFBBS, AND OHOCOLATB. 

BreaJcfast Coffee. — One table-spoonful of coffee for each 
person, three gills of boiling water to each table-spoonful of 
coffee. 

The coffee should be finely ground, then measured, put 
into the coffee-pot^ and the boiling water poured over it. 

Put the pot over the fire, and let the coffee boil up, when 
it should be drawn quickly aside from the blaze, and when 
the gas arising from the grains of coffee has escaped, re- 
turn the pot again to the fire, and let it again boil up. 
Draw it aside from the fire, and let it staad for five minutes 
to settle, when it is ready for the cups. 

Notes. — In making black or after-dinner coffee, the quantity of 
coffee allowed for each person should be the same, and the amount 
of water added to each table-spoonful of coffee should be decreased 
one-half. 

Sugar and cream are used in breakfast coffee, but sugar only in 
black coffee. 

Teas. — One tea-spoonful of tea for each person, and a 
tea-spoonful additional, three gills of boiling water to each 
tea-spoonful of tea. 

Pour first in and out of the tea-pot a little boiling water. 
Put into it the required amount of tea, and pouring over 
this the boiling water, cover the tea-pot so that no steam 
may escape, and allow the tea to stand and infuse for seven 
minutes, when it should be poured at once into the cups. 

Nones. — Tea should never be boiled, and should not be allowed 
to infuse longer than seven minutes, as the strength of the leaf will 
all draw out in that length of time, and if allowed to stand longer, 
will develop the tannin in it which gives it the acrid, bitter taste 
of which there is general complaint, and which, besides being un- 
pleasant to the palate, is destructive to the coating of the stomach, 
being a powerful astringent. 

Teas when properly infused should have a pale, greenish amber 
colour ; when boiled or let stand until the tannin develops, it will 
turn to a dark red. 



208 HISCELLAl^EOnS DISHES. 

Cream and sugar are used in English breakfast and black teas. 
Green teas are usually preferred clear, and sometimes with a small 
piece of fresh lemon rind, at the discretion of the drinker. 

Chocolate. — Four table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate to 
each person, one and one half gill of boiling milk, and one 
and one half gill of boiling water, to each portion of chocolate. 

Mix together the boiling milk and water, and let them 
boil up together. 

Place the grated chocolate into a bowl, and stir it to a 
smooth paste with a little cold milk or water. Pour the 
chocolate into the boiling milk and water, and let all boil 
together for two minutes^ stirring it constantly meantime. 

Notes. — If preferred, the sugar may be mixed with and boiled 
in the chocolate, and if this is done, half as much sugar should be 
used as there is chocolate. 

Cream whipped to a froth is sometimes served with this bever- 
age, and powdered sugar should be used in it instead of the cut loaf. 

Cocoa is made by mixing it with the desired amount of sugar, 
this mixture being placed in the cup, and equal quantities of boiling 
milk and water poured over it. 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 

Scotch Haggis. — One sheep's pluck, one stomach-bag, 
one half pound beef suet, two tea-cupf uls oatmeal, one tea- 
spoonful Jamaica pepper, one half tea-spoonful pepper, one 
half dessert-spoonful salt. 

The haggis must be prepared the day befor. it is required 
for use. 

The stomach-bag must be thoroughly washed in cold 
water, then plunge it into boiling water^ scrape it well, but 
take great care not to break it. 

When this is done, lay the bag into a basin, cover it with 
cold water, add a table-spoonful of salt^ and let it lie over 
night. 

Wash well the pluck and put it into a sauce-pan of cold 



UNBOILED PICKLE. 209 

water, and allow it to boil for one hour ; take it from the 
water and let it get quite cold. 

When quite cold, grate one quarter of the liver on the 
carrot grater ; chop very finely all of the lights, also the heart 

Place these ingredients in a large bowl, and mix with 
them the Jamaica pepper, the salt, and pepper. 

Chop very finely the suet and add it to the mixture ; dry 
in the oven for about ten minutes the oatmeal, add it also, 
and stir the whole to a consistency with half of the water 
that the pluck was boiled in. Fill the bag a little more 
than half full, sew up the aperture with a stout thread. 
Put the haggis now in a large pan of boiling water, prick 
the skin occasionally to allow the steam to escape as the 
mixture in the bag begins to cook. 

Boil for three hours. 

Note.— Chopped onion may be added to the haggis mixture if 
the flavour is desired. 

Unboiled Pickle for Beef or Pork.~Three gallons of 
water, seven pounds salt, two ounces saltpetre, one quarter 
oimce black pepper, one quarter ounce Jamaica pepper, one 
quarter ounce cloves, one pound sugar. 

Place the beef to be pickled for one night in strong salt 
and water, take it out and put it in the pickling-tub. 

Mix well with the above three gallons of water the salt,, 
pepper, sugar, and saltpetre, grind the cloves and Jamaica 
pepper, add them also, let the mixture stand a little to 
settle, then pour it over the beef or pork. 

Keep the beef or pork under the pickle by placing on 
either a stone or two. 

Do not cover the tub ; merely throw a cloth over to keep 
out the dust. 

Salt Beef (Ghermaa way). — One and one half pound 
salt, one and one half pound sugar, one ounce saltpetre, 
five quarts cold water. 

Eub well the beef to be pickled with salt, place it in a jar 
with a stone on it. 

U 



210 MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 

Place in a large sauce-pan the water^ add the saltpetre 
salt, and sugar, stir until boiling, take the sauce-pau from 
the fire and let the contents cool. 

When quite cold pour this pickle over the beef in the jar, 
and cover it with a cloth. 

The beef may be used in three weeks. 

Ginger Beer. — Three gallons water, three pounds lump- 
sugar, two large table-spoonfuls yeast, one lemon, four 
ounces ginger, two ounces cream of tartar. 

Place the ginger in a very large pan, pour over it the 
water, and allow it to soak for twenty-four hours, place 
then the pan on the fire, and let it boil for three hours. 

Dissolve the sugar in as much water as may have boiled 
in during the three hours, add it to the ginger and water in 
the pan, and allow all to boil for ten minutes longer. 

Take the pan then from the fire, put into it the cream of 
tartar and the lemon thinly sliced ; it must then stand until 
the mixture is nearly cold. 

Pour the liquid gently from the ginger into another 
vessel, add the yeast, and let it ferment for twenty-four 
hours. 

At the end of this time skim off the top, and strain it 
from the sediment, and bottle it for use. The bottles must 
be well corked and not filled too full. 

Mutton Pies. — Two pounds lean mutton, one pound 
flour, one half pound suet, one tea-cupful of sweet milk, one 
tea-spoonful salt, one half tea-spoonful pepper. 

Place the mutton on a board, remove from it all skin and 
bone, and cut it into neat square pieces ; sprinkle over the 
pieces a little pepper and salt, and put them on one side. 

Chop very finely the suet, put it in a bowl, and pour over 
it the milk, which must first be brought to the boiling-point. 

Stir well together the suet and milk, add a little salt, and 
when they have stood for one minute stir quickly in the flour. 

Flour well the board, turn the contents of the bowl on to 
it, knead the mixture quickly together, forming a firm douglu 



NOODLINS. 211 

Boll the dough out as quickly as possible^ as the instant 
it cools it becomes very tough. 

Cut from the dough six rounds a little larger than break- 
fast saucers, and place them on one side. Knead together 
again what remains of the dough, and cut from it six more 
rounds. 

Grease well six breakfast saucers, and place on them the 
last rounds which were cut out; brush the edges of the 
dough with a little milk, place in each lined saucer a portion 
of the seasoned mutton, cover each with a round of the dough 
which was first cut, and press the two edges firmly together. 

"With the point of a skewer make a hole in the top of 
each, brush each over with a little milk, place the pies in a 
moderate oven, and bake them for three quarters of an hour. 

Noodlins (German fkshion).— Two eggs, one quarter 
pound flour, one half tea-spoonful salt, two ounces butter. 

Mix well in a bowl the flour and salt, moisten them with 
the eggs, turn all out on a board and knead well together, 
adding more flour if necessary. 

When stiff enough to roll out, flour the board well, and 
roll out the dough very thinly. 

Allow the dough to lie on the board until firm ; but do 
not let it lie long enough to get hard. 

Flour it then well and roll it up. 

This will now have the shape of a rolled jelly cake. With 
a very sharp knife cut some strips from the roll, about the 
third of an inch in thickness. 

When the half of the roll is cut into strips, cut the other 
half into strips about half the width of the former. 

Throw the broad strips into a pan of boiling water in 
which has been dissolved a good pinch of salt. Boil these 
strips for fifteen minutes. 

While they are boiling, melt in a frying-pan the butter ; 
when it smokes, throw in the narrow strips, and allow them 
to take a pale brown colour. 

When both are ready, drain the boiled strips quickly on 
a sieve, and pile them on a hot dish. 



212 MIBCELLAKEOUS DISHEa 

Lift from the batter with a fork the browned strips, and 
pile them high on the boiled ones. 

This ought to be served with cream and any sort of pre- 
serve. 

Clarified Fat. — Cut into pieces any convenient quantity of 
fat either of beef or mutton. Place these in a sauce-pan, and 
covering them with cold water, stir aU until the water boils. 

When boiling, skim the surface very carefully, and allow 
the preparation to boil thereafter very rapidly until the 
water has all been discharged in vapour. 

The presence of remaining water may be determined by 
the liquid retaining its white colour ; but when this has all 
evaporated the fluid will take on the colour and appearance 
of salad oiL 

When free from water the fat should be strained, and is 
ready for any use to which it is to be put 

Note. — Fat so clarified will keep for any leugth of time. 

OarameL — One pound of coarse brown sugar, one pint of 
cold water. 

Put the sugar into a dry sauce-pan, place this over a hot 
fire, and stir the sugar until it melts and turns to a darker 
brown colour. Draw the sauce-pan aside from the fire, and 
add to its contents by degrees the cold water. 

Betum the sauce-pan to the fire, and stir all together 
until the water boils. 

Pour the mixture through a strainer into a bowl, and 
allow it to become quite cold, after which it should be 
placed in a bottle and kept uncorked, to be used as required. 



APPENDIX. 



SOUPS. 

"Brovm Stock, 9. 
Brown Soup, 12. 
Clear Sonp, 10. 
Giblet Soup, 13. 
Hare Soup, 16. 
Hotch-potch, 14. 
Kidney Soup, 11. 
Mock Tnrtle Soup, 11. 
Mnllagatawny Soup, 18. 
Ox-tail Soup, 19. 
Kabbit Soup, 18. 
Soap ^la-Reine, 17. 
Tapioca Cream Soup, 16. 
Turkish Soup, 17. 
White Stock, 16. 

PUB&a 

Asparagus Pur^e, 21. 
Potato Pur^, 22. 
Pur^ 2i-la-Cond^, 19. 
Purde of Oreen Pease, 20. 
Tomato Pur^e, 20. 
Turnip Pur^, 21. 

OTSTEBS AND OTHES SHELL 
FISH. 

Broiled Oysters, 27. 

Crab Pie or Deviled Crabs, 29. 

Curried Lobster, 80. 

Fish Chowder, 23. 

Fricassee of Oyster, 25. 

Fried Oysters, 25. 

Lobster Outlets, 29. 



Oysters k-la-Cr^e, 27. 
Oyster Croquettes, 28. 
Oyster Soup, 24. 
Oyster Soup li-la-Keine, 23 
Scalloped Oysters, 26. 

FISH. 

Boiled Cod-fish, 81. 

Broiled Mackerel, 83. 

Filet de Sole, Jt-la-Maltre d'Hotel, 31. 

Fish Ik-la-Russe, 84. 

Fish Cakes, 85. 

Fried Smelts, S4. 

Kedgeree, 87. 

Potted Halibut, 87. 

Salmon Pie, 86. 

Salmon Pudding, 88. 

Sole au Gratin, 82. 

Stewed Cod-fish, 88. 

Stuffed Haddock, 88. 

Turbot &-la-Cr^me, 86. 

MEATS. 

Beef Olives, 79. 
Beefsteak Pie, 47. 
Blanquette of Veal, 60. 
Boiled Beefsteak Pudding, 40. 
Boiled Corned Beef, 44. 
Boiled Fowl : Egg Sauce, 45. 
Boiled Leg of Mutton, 48. 
Braised Fillet of Veal, 56. 
Broiled Beef-steak, 67. 
Broiled Chicken, 67. 
Broiled Kidneys with Maltre d'Hotel 
Butter, 66. 



214 



APPENDIX. 



Browned Sweei-Broadi, 90. 
OhAud-froid of Chicken, 83. 
Ohicken Croquettes, 84. 
Cold Boiled Mutton with Tomato 

Sauce, 60. 
Cold Chicken, 66. 
Cold Meat Shape, 64. 
Cold Turkey with White Sauce, 62. 
Corned Beef Hash, 60. 
Corniah Pasties, 60. 
Curry, 68. 

Curry with Boiled Rice, 77. 
Cutlets ^la-Mar^chal, 80. 
Fillet of Beef, with Sauce HoUand- 

als, 88. 
Fricassee of Chicken, 61. 
Fricass^ of Sweet-Breads, 80. 
Fried Chicken with Chives, 60. 
Grenadines of Veal, 86. 
Haricot of Mutton, 60. 
Haunch of Venison, 70. 
Hot-pot, 48. 
Jugged Hare, 71. 
Kromesquies Busse, 76. 
Larded Sweet-Breads, 81. 
Larks, 78. 

Liver and Bacon, 60. 
Minced Chicken with Potato Wall, 

68. 
Minced Cold Yeal, 66. 
Mutton Soubise, 64. 
Partridge Pie, 72. 
Pigeons with Oreen Pease, 74. 
Pork Sausages, 68. 
Qulnelles of Veal, 85. 
Bagout of Rabbit, 66. 
Rissoles, 67. 
Rissoles of Veal, 7a 
Roast Beef, 30. 
Roast Bullock's Heart, 42. 
Roast Orouse, 73. 
Roast Pheasant, 7L 
Roast Pork, 41. 
Roast Turkey, 40. 
Rolled Shoulder of Mutton, 62. 
Sausage Rolls, 61. 
Savoury Hash, 64. 
Shepherd's Pie, 61. 
Stewed Beef, 49. 
Stewed Kidney, 66. 
Stewed WUd Pigeons, 76. 
Talleyrand Cutlets, 87. 
Timbalee, 87. 



Veal Balls, 62. 

Vol-au-Vent of Sweet-Breads, 8L 

WUd Ducks, 73. 

Windham Cutlets, 63. 

Woodcock on Toast, 74. 

VEOETABLEa 

Baked Onions, 101. 

Boiled Asparagus with White Sauce, 

Boiled Beets, 106. [04. 

Boiled Cabbage, 06. 

Boiled Carrots with Brown Sauce, 07. 

Boiled Haricot Beans, 08. 

Boiled Onions, 100. 

Boiled Parsnips, 108. 

Boiled Potatoes, 07. 

Brussels Sprouts, 100. 

Cabbage &-la-Mode, 102. 

Cauliflower an Gratin, 02. 

Colcannon, 08. 

Dressed Cauliflower, 107. 

French Artichauts, 00. 

French or String Beans, 104. 

Green Pease, 06. 

Leeks au Gratin, 103. 

Lima Beans, 102. 

Macaroni and Cheese, 106. 

Mattre d'Hotel Potatoes, 10& 

Spinach with Eggs, 01. 

Stewed Celery, 106. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 105. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 100. 

Tomato Farci, 03. 

Turnip Radishes, 108. 

Turnips, 06. 

Turnips in White Sauce, 108. 

SALADS. 

Beef Salad, 114. 
Chicken Salad, 100. 
Cucumber Salad, 118. 
Lettuce Salad, 114. 
Lobster Salad, 111. 
Potato Salad, 110. 
Salad Ji-la-Russe, 116. 
Shrimp Salad, 110. 

OBOQUETTES AND FRITTERS. 

Apple Fritters, 122. 
Banana Fritters, 128. 



APPENDIX. 



215 



Cheese Fritters, 12L 
Chicken Croquettes, 118. 
Com Fritters, 123. 
Crab Croquettes, 118. 
Croquettes of Badmon, 119. 
Croquettes of Shad-Boe, 110. 
Oyster Fritters, 121. 
Potato Croquettes, 116. 
Potato Fritters, 120. 
£lce Croquettes, 117. 

SOUFFL&L 

Cheese Souffle, 128. 
Chestnut Souffle, 129. 
Chicken Souffle, 129. 
Chocolate Soufflds, 127. 
Lemon Souffl^, 126. 
Omelette Souffle, 127. 
Potato Souffle, 124. 
YanlllA Souffl^ 126. 

PUDDINOS. 

Albert Pudding, 131. 
Alma Pudding, 148. 
Amber Pudding, 139. 
Apple Dumplings, 148. 
Aunt Martha's Pudding, 183. 
Bread and Butter Pudding, 136. 
Cabinet Pudding, 133. 
Chocohite Pudding, 142. 
Cold Cabinet Pudding, 16a 
Corn-Starch Pudding, 146. 
Cream Pudding, 162. 
English Plum Pudding, 188. 
Family Dumpling, 160. 
Fig Pudding, 181. 
French Pudding, 149. 
Ginger Pudding, 160. 
Glac^ Pudding, 168. 
Italian Pudding, 148. 
Lemon Pudding, 134. 
Llanberries Pudding, 136. 
Lowell Pudding, 132. 
Marmalade Pudding, 149. 
Marrow Pudding, 148. 
Meringue Pudding, 16L 
Overton Pudding, 137. 
Pancakes, 146. 
Peach-Sago, 146. 
Philn Suet Pudding, 164. 
BaUway Padding, 141. 



Elce Meringue, 162. 

Klce Pudding, 146. 

Sir Watkln Wynne's Pudding, 136. 

Seven-Cup Pudding, 160. 

Snowden Pudding, 147. 

Swiss Blssoles, 144. 

Tapioca Pudding, 137. 

Yenoise Pudding, 140. 

Wakefield Pudding, 138. 

Welcome Quest Pudding, 130. 

SWEET AND SAVOUBY 
SAUCES. 

Brandy Sauce, 168. 
Bread Sauce, 167. 
Brown Sauce, 167. 
Caper Sauce, 166. 
Custard Sauce, 169. 
Egg Sauce, 166. 
German Sweet Sauce, 168. 
Hard Sauce, 169. 
Jam Sauce, 168. 
Jelly Sauce, 169. 
Lemon Sauce, 168. 
Mint Sauce, 166. 
Onion Sauce, 166. 
Oyster Sauce, 164. 
Tartare Sauce, 166. 
White Sauce, 160. 
Wine Sauce, 160. 

lOES, OBBAKS, AND JELLIES. 

Apple Transparency, 172. 

Calf 's-foot Jelly, 170. 

Charlotte Kusse, 166. 

Frozen Pudding Glac^, or Tnttl- 

frutU, 16L 
Iced Pudding, 160. 
Iced Souffle, 168. 
Italian Cream, 167. 
Lemon Jelly, 169. 
Lemon Sponge, 171. 
Lemon Water Ice, 162. 
Orange Cream, 166. 
Orange Jelly, 169. 
Rice Cream, 166. 
Snow Jelly, 16& 
Strawberry Ice-Cream, 168. 
Strawberry Water Ice, 162. 
Yanflla Ice-Cream, 164. 
Yelvet Cream, 167. 



216 



APPENDIX. 



PIES AND PAfRTBIBS. 

Apple Pie, ire. 

Costard Pie, 177. 
Flakj CruBt, 173. 
Lemon Pie, 176. 
Mince Pie, 177. 
Peaoh Pie, 177. 
Pie Crust, 176. 
Puff Paste, 17a 
Bongh Puff Paste, 176. 
Short Crust, 174. 
Suet Crust, 174. 

BBBAD AND OAKSa 

Com Flour Cake, 192. 

Com Lunn, 183. 

Cream Cake, 186. 

Folded Rolls, 183. 

French Bolls, 180. 

Fruit Cake, 19a 

Galettes, 184. 

Milk Biscuit^ 181. 

Milk Bolls, 180. 

Muffins, 18L 

Orange Cake, 187. 

Popovers (for Tea), 19L 

Pound Cake, 188. 

Bock Cake, 189. 

Busks (a hot Tea Cake), lOO. 

Snow Cake, 187. 

Soda Scones, 182. 

Sponge Cake, 188. 

Sultana Cake, 186. 

Tibbie Shiel's or Girdle Scones, 182. 

Tipsy Cake, 191. 

Wheat Bread, 179. 

Yorkshire Tea Cakes, 189. 

BBBAZFA8T DZ8HB8. 

Baked Tripe, 204. 
BoUed Oatmeal, 202. 



Boiled Bice, 202. 
Boiled Tripe, 203. 
Brain Cakes, 205. 
Calf's Liver, 193. 
Casserole of Chicken, 208. 
Chickens' Livers, 200. 
Curried Bggs, 197. 
Deviled Turkey, 194. 
Dresden Patties, 199. 
Dried Herb Omelettes, 196. 
Eggs an Plat, 196. 
Eggs on Toast, 197. 
Ham Omelette, 195. 
Jellied Tongue, 206. 
Kidney Omelette, 194. 
Mushrooms, 198. 
Pig's Feet, 201. 
Potato Saut^, 198. 
Scrambled Eggs, 197. 
Sheep-head Pie, 193. 
Sheep's Trotters, 192. 
Stuffed Potatoes, 199. 
Stewed Kidneys, 206. 
Tripe with Onion Sauce, 204. 

TEAS, COFFEES, AND 
CHOCOLATE. 

Breakfast Coffee, 207. 
Chocolate, 208. 
Teas, 207. 

MISOELLANEOUS DISHE& 

Caramel, 212. 
Clarified Fat, 212. 
Ginger Beer, 210. 
Mutton Pies, 210. 
Noodlins (German fashionX 211. 
Salt Beef (German way), 209. 
Scotch Haggis, 208. 
Unboiled Pickle for Beef or Pork, 
209. 



STORIES WITH A PURPOSE. 

The Grey House on the Hill; or, "Buy the Truth and Sell it 

Not." A Tale for the Young. By the Hon. Mrs. Grsbns. Post 8vo, cloth. 
Price 3S. 6d. 

True Hearts make Happy Homes. The storyof the Vivians 

of Woodiford. By M. A. Paui l, Author of " Tim's Troubles ; or, Tried and 
True," &c. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

Waiting and Winning; or, Bread Cast upon the Waters and 
Found after Many Days. With 4 Illustrations printed in Colours. Post 8vo, 
cloth extra. Price 2s. 6d. 

Lizzie Hepburn ; or, Every Cloud has a Silver Lining. With 4 
Illustrations printed in Colours. Post Svo, cloth. Price 2s. 6d. 

Willing to be Useful ; or, Principle and Duty Illustrated in the 
Story of Edith Allison. With 7 Tinted Plates. Post Svo, cloth. Price as. 

Kind Words Awaken Kind Echoes. With Coloured Frontis- 
piece and Vignette, and 6 Tinted Plates. Post Svo, cloth, gilt edges. Price 3s. 

Good Out of EviL A Tale for Children. By Mrs. Surr, Author 
of " Sea Birds, and the Story of their Lives," &c. With 3a Illustrations by 
GiACOMBLLi. Post Svo, cloth, gilt edges. Price as. 

Working in the Shade; or, Lowly Sowing brings Glorious 
Reaping. By the Rev. T. P. Wilson, M.A., Author of "True to his 
Colours," &c. Royal xSmo, cloth. Price is. 6d. 

May's Sixpence ; or, Waste Not, Want Not. A Tale. By M. 
A. Paull, Author of " Tim's Troubles," &c. Royal z8mo, cloth. Price xs. 6d. 

Roe Carson's Enemy ; or, The Struggle for Self-Conquest. By 
the Rev. £. N. Hoars, M.A., Rector of Acrise, Kent, Author of " Harvey 
Compton's Holiday," &c. Royal x8mo, cloth. Price zs. 6d. 

The Golden Rule ; or, Do to Others as You would have Others 
do to You. Royal zSmo, cloth. Price xs. 6d. 

Christian Principle in Little Things. Royal i8mo, cloth. 

Price xs. 6d. 

Grandpapa's Keepsakes; or, Take Heed will Surely Speed. 
With Coloured Frontispiece, and 45 Eng^vings. Royal x8mo, cloth extra. 
Price xs. 6d. 

Truth is always Best; or, "AFault Confessed is Half Redressed." 
By Mary and Elizabeth Kirby. With Coloured Frontispiece, and 17 Illus- 
trations. Royal i8mo, cloth. Price xs. 6d. 

Old Robin and his Proverb ; or, With the Lowly is Wisdom. 
By Mrs. Henry F. Brock. With Coloured Frontispiece, and numerous 
Eng^vings. Royal x8mo, cloth. Price xs. 

Spare Well and Spend Well ; or, Money, its Use and Abuse. 
With Coloured Frontispiece, and 4 Illustrations. Royal i8mo, cloth. Price zs. 

Strive and Thrive ; or. Stories for the Example and Encourage- 
ment of the Young. With Coloured Frontispiece, and 8 Illustrations. Royal 
z8mo, cloth. Price zs. 

The Power of Kindness, and Other Stories. Illustrated. Royal 
zSmo, cloth. Price zs. 

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK. 



THE A. L 0. E, SERIES. 



RICHLY ILLUSTRATED^ AND ELEGANTLY BOUND, 



At Bs. eaoh. Crown 8vo. 
Exiles In Babylon. With 34 Engravings. 

The Shepherd of Bethlehem. With 40 Engravings. 

Rescued from Egypt. With 27 Engravings. 
Hebrew Heroes. With Thirty Engravings. 

The Triumph over Hidian. With 28 Engravings. 
Pride and his Prisoners. With 40 Engravings. 



At ds. 6d. each. Post 8vo. 

The Young Pilgrim. A Tale Illustrating the " Pilgrim's Pro- 
gress." With 27 Engravings. Gilt edges. 

On the Way ; or, Places Passed by Pilgrims. 

The City of NocrOSS, and its Famous Physician. 

The Lady of Provence ; or, Humbled and Healed. 

Claudia. A Tale. 

Idols in the Heart A Tale. 

The Spanish Cavalier. A Story of Seville. 

The Haimted Room. A Tale. 

Precepts in Practice. StoriesIllustratingtheProverbs. Giltedges. 



At Ss. eaoh. Post 8vo. 

A Wreath of Indian Stories. 
Cyril Ashley. A Tale. 

House Beautiftll ; or, The Bible Museum Opened. 

The Silver Casket ; or, Love not the World. 

The Crown of Success ; or. Four Heads to Furnish. 

The Giant-Killer ; or. The Battle which All must Fight. Gilt edges. 

War and Peace. A Tale of the Retreat from Cabul. 



T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK. 



THE A. L. 0, E. SERIES. 



RICHLY ILLUSTRATED, AND ELEGANTLY BOUND, 



At 28. 6d. each. Post 8vo. 

Rambles of a Rat. Gilt edges. 

The Mine ; or, Darkness and Light. Gilt edges. 

Miracles of Heavenly Love in Dally Life. Gilt edges. 

Flora ; or, Self-Deception. Gilt edges. 

The Robbers' Cave. A Story of Italy. 

Battling with the World : The story of the Roby Family. 
Gilt edges. 

At Ss. each. Post 8vo. 

Old Friends with New Faces. Plates. Gilt edges. 
My Neighbour's Shoes. Gilt edges. 

Fairy Frisket ; or, Peeps at Insect Life. Cloth extra. 
Fairy KnOW-a-Bit ; or, A Nutshell of Knowledge. Cloth extra. 
The. Holiday Chaplet. A Book of Stories. 
The Sunday Chaplet. A Book of Stories. 



At Is. 6d. each. Royal ISzno. 

The Story of a Needle, illustrated. 

Wings and Stings. With i6 Engravings. 

stories from the History of the Jews. With Coloured 

Frontispiece and Vignette, and 30 Engravings. 



At Is. each. Royal 18mo. 

Upwards and Downwards, and Other Stories. With Coloured 
Frontispiece, and 4 Illustrations. 

The Olive-Braneh, and Other Stories. With Coloured Frontis- 
piece, and 16 Illustrations. 

A I^end in Need, and Other Stories. With Coloured Frontis- 
piece, and 7 Illustrations. 

The Hymn my Mother Taught me, and Other Stories. With 

Coloured Frontispiece, and 24 Illustrations. 

Edith and Her Ayah, and Other Stories. With Coloured Fron- 
tispiece, and z6 Illustrations. 

Try Again, and Other Stories. With Coloured Frontispiece, and 
17 Illustrations. 

Good for Evil, and Other Stories. With Coloured Frontispiece, 
and 7 Illustrations. 

Wings and Stings. With 6 Illustrations. 

r. NBLSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK 



NATURAL HISTORY ILLUSTRATED. 



■♦•♦ 



Jenny and the Insects ; or, Little Toilers and their Industries. 
With 36 Illastrations by Giacomblli. Post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges. 
Price 3s. 6d. 

Tiny Workers ; or, Man's Little Rivals in the Animal World. 
With 13 Engravings. Price zs. 6d. 

The History of the Robins. By Mrs. Trimmer. Illustrated 

with z6 Original Drawings by Giacomblli, engraved by Rouget, Berveiller, 
Whymper, Sargent, &c. New and Cheaper Edition, Post 8vo, gilt edges. 
Price 3s. 

In the Woods. By M. K. M., Author of "The Birds We See," 
&c. With 34 Illustrations by Giacomblli. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price as. 6d. 

Sea Birds, and the Lessons of their Lives. By Mrs. Surr. 

With 24 Engravings. Foolscap 8vo, doth, gilt edges. Price as. 

Great Fisheries of the World Described and Illustrated. 

With numerous Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 3s. 6d. 

The Monsters of the Deep, and Curiosities of Ocean Life. 

A Book of Anecdotes, Traditions, and Legends. With upwards of 70 En- 
gravings. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 3s. 6d. 

Stories of the Sagacity of Animals. By w. H. G. Kingston, 

Author of " In the Eastern Seas/' &c. With 60 Illustrations by Harrison 
Wbir. Crown 8vo. Price 3s. 6d. 

Stories of the Dog, and his Cousins the Wolf, the Jackal, 

and the Hyena. With Stories Illustrating their Place in the Animal World. 
By Mrs. Hugh Millbr. With 34 Engravings. Foolscap 8vo, cloth. Price 
zs. 6d. 

Stories of the Cat, and her Cousins the lion, the Tiger, 

and the Leopard. With Stories Illustrating their Place in the Animal World. 
By Mrs. Hugh Millbr. With 39 Engravings. Foolscap 8vo, cloth. Price 
zs. 6d. 

Talks with Uncle Richard about Wild Animals. By Mrs. 

Gborgb Cupplbs. With 75 Illustrations. z8mo, cloth. Price zs. 6d. 

Mamma's Stories about Domestic Pets. By Mrs. George 

Cupplbs. With 56 Illustrations. z8mo, cloth. Price zs. 6d. 

Natural History of the Bible. By M. K. M., Author of " The 

Birds We See,** &c. With 37 Engravings. Price zs. 6d. 

Afar in the Forest ; or. Lady Mary and her Nurse, and what 
they Saw in the Woods of Canada. By Mrs. Traill, Author of "The 
Canadian Crusoes,** &c. With Z9 Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 
2S. 6d. 

Things in the Forest. By Mary and Elizabeth Kirby. With 

Coloured Frontispiece, and 50 Illustrations. Royal z8mo, cloth. Price zs. 6d. 



r, NRLSON AND SOJVS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK, 



BOOKS OF SCIENCE AND HISTORY. 



-♦•♦- 



Maury's Physical Oeography of the Sea. With 13 Charts 

printed in Colours. 8vo. Price 5s. 

Pompeii and HeFCUlaneum, the Buried Cities of Campania : 
Their History, their Destruction, and their Remains. By W. H. Daven- 
port Adams. With 57 Engravings and a Plan of Pompeii. Post 8vo, cloth 
extra. Price 3s. 6d. 

Triumphs of Invention and Discovery. By J. Hamilton 

FvFS. With Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price as. 6d. 

Merchant Enterprise ; or, Pictures of the History of Commerce 
from the Earliest Times. By J. Hamilton Fvfb. With zo Illustrations. 
Post Bvo, cloth extra. Price 3s. 6d. 

LigrhthOUSeS and Lightships: A Descriptive and Historical 
Account of their Mode of Construction and Organization. With 70 Illustra- 
tions from Photographs and other sources. Post Bvo, cloth extra. Price 
3s. 6d. 

Wonders of the Physical World— The Glacier, Iceberg, Ice- 
field, and Avalanche. By W. H. Davenport Adams. With 75 Engravings. 
Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 3s. 6d. 



♦ •» 



INSTRUCTIVE SERIES OF 

SHILLING BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 



Eacli Tvith Colouped Frontispiece, and Numerous 
Engravings. Royal 18mo, oloth. 



Wonders of Creation : Volcanoes and their Phenomena. With 
34 Engravings. 

Nature's Wonders : Pictures of Remarkable Scenes in Foreign 
Lands. With 30 Engravings. 

Wonders of the Vegetable World. With 32 Engravings. 
Scenes of Wonder in Many Lands. Being Descriptions of 

Rapids, Cascades, Waterfalls, &c. With 27 Engravings. 

life and Travel in Tartary, Thibet, and China. Being a 

Narrative of the Ahh6 Hue's Travels in the Far East. By M. Jones. With 
3a Engravings. 

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK, 



BOOKS OF PRECEPT AND EXAMPLE. 

Lives made Sublime by Faith and Works. By th« Rev. 

Robert Steel, D.D., Author of "Doing Good," &c. Post 8vo, cloth. 
Price 3S. 6d. 

Doing Good ; or, The Christian in Walks of Usefulness. Illus- 
trated by Examples. By the Rev. Robert Steel, D.D. Post 8vo, cloth 
extra. Price 3s. 6d. 

Willing Hearts and Ready Hands; or, The Labours and 

Triumphs of Earnest Women. By Joseph Johnson. Post 8vo, cloth extra. 
Price 3s. 6d. 

The Threshold of Life. A Book of Illustrations and Lessons 
for the Encouragement and Counsel of Youth. By W. H. Davenport 
Adams. With 6 Engravings. Post Bvo, cloth. Price 2s. 6d. 

Heaven and Home. A Book for the Fireside. By J. Marshall 
Lans, D.D., of the Barony Parish, Glasgow. Post Bvo, cloth extra. Price 
2s. 6d. 

Seed-time and Harvest ; or, Sow Well and Reap Well. A 

Book for the Young. By the late Rev. W. K. Tweedie, D.D. Post Bvo, 
cloth. Price 2S. 6d. 

Success in Life. A Book for Young Men. Post 8vo, cloth extra. 
Price 3s. 

The Boy makes the Man. A Book of Example and Encourage- 
ment for Boys. Witk Coloured Frontbpiece, and numerous Engravings. 
Royal xBmo, cloth. Price xs. 6d. 



♦•» 



STORIES OF NOBLE LIVES. 

Gael:! vritli Coloured Fx^ntispieoe. 
Royal 18mo, Cloth. Prioe Is. 

Story of Audubon, the Naturalist. 

Story of Howard, the Philanthropist. 

Story of PaliSSy, the Potter. 

story of John Smeaton and the Eddystone Lighthouse. 

Story of Dr. Scoresby, the Arctic Navigator. 

Story of Cyrus Field, the Projector of the Atlantic Cable. 

Story of BenvenutO Cellini, the Italian Goldsmith. 

story of Sir Humphrey Davy and the Invention of the Safety 

Lamp. 

story of Galileo, the Astronomer of Pisa. 

Story of the Herschels. 

Story of the Stephensons, Father and Son. 

story of Samuel Budgett, the Successful Merchant. 

r. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK, 



TALES OF ADVENTURE AND ENTERPRISE. 



♦ •♦ 



BY R. M. BALLANTYNE. 

Hudson Bay ; or, Everyday Life in the Wilds of North America. 
With 46 Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Price 5s. 

The Young Fur-Traders. A Tale of the Far North. With 

Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

Ungrava. A Tale of Esquimaux Land. With Illustrations. Post 
8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

The Coral Island. A Tale of the Pacific. With Illustrations. 
Post Svo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

Martin Rattler ; or, A Boy*s Adventures in the Forests of Brazil. 
With Illustrations. Post Bvo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

The Dogr Crusoe and his Master. A Tale of the Western 

Prairies. With Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

The Gorilla Hunters. A Tale of Western Africa. With Illus- 
trations. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

The World of lee ; or. Adventures in the Polar Regions. With 
Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

The Ocean and its Wonders. With ^ixty Engravings. Post 
8vo, cloth extra. Price 3s. 



-♦•♦■ 



TALES FOR THE HOME CIRCLE. 

Look at the Brigrht Side. A Tale for the Young. By Joanna 
H. Matthews, Author of " Little Sunbeams." Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 
2s. 6d. 

Isabel's Secret. By the Author of " The Story of a Happy Little 
Girl." Foolscap 8vo, cloth. Price 2s. 6d. 

Favourite Narratives for the Christian Household. Con- 
taining: — The Shepherd of Salisbury Plain— The Dairyman's Daugh- 
ter — ^Thb Young Cottager, &c. Post 8vo, cloth. Price as. 

The Story of a Happy Little Girl. By the Author of "Isa- 
bel's Secret." Royal i8mo. Price zs. 6<1. 

The Basket of Flowers. A Tale for the Young. With Coloured 
Frontispiece and numerous Engravings. Royal z8mo. Price zs. Cd. 

" Our Father which art in Heaven." A Story illustrative 

of the Lord's Prayer. By a Clergyman's Widow. With Coloured Frontis- 
piece and z6 Engravings. Royal z8mo. Price xs. 



r. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK, 



NEW SERIES OF PRIZE BOOKS. 



♦•» 



The Euphrates and the Tigris. A Narrative of Discovery 
and Adventure. With a Description of the Ruins of Babylon and Nineveh. 
With z8 Full-page Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 2s. 

Mount Sinai, Petra, and the Desert. Described and Illus- 
trated. With 23 Full-page Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price as. 

The Jordan and its Valley, and the Dead Sea. By the 

Author of "The Mediterranean Illustrated." With 45 Engravings. Post 
8vo, cloth extra. Price 2s. 

The Story of Ida Pf eifTer and her Travels in Many Lands. 

With 35 Full-page Engravings. Post Bvo, cloth extra. Price 2s. 

The Story of the Life and Travels of Alexander von Hum- 
boldt. With 37 Full-page Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 2s. 

The Amazon and its Wonders. With illustrations of Animal 

and Vegetable Life in the Amazonian Forest. With 26 Full-page Engravings. 
Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 2s. 

In the Far East. A Narrative of Exploration and Adventure in 
Cochin-China, Cambodia, Laos, and Siam. With 28 Full-page Engravings. 
Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 2s. 

Gibraltar and its Sieges. With a Description of its Natural 
Features. With x8 Full-page Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 2s. 



♦•» 



TEMPERANCE PRIZE TALES. 

Sought and Saved. A Tale. By Miss M. A. Paull, Author 
of "Tim's Troubles ; or. Tried and True," " The Vivians of Woodiford," &c. 
With 6 Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 3s. 6d. 

Lionel Franklin's Victory. By E. Van Sommer. With 6 

Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 3s. 6d. 

Frank Oldfield ; or, Lost and Found. By the Rev. T. P. Wilson, 
M.A. With 5 Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

Tim's Troubles ; or, Tried and True. By M. A. Paull. With 
5 Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 



True to his Colours ; or, The Life that Wears Best. By the 
Rev. T. P. Wilson, M.A., Vicar of Pavenham, Author of " Frank Oldfield ; 
or, Lost and Found." With 6 Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

Amos Huntingdon. A Tale illustrative of Moral Courage, with 
Examples taken from Real Life. By the Rev. T. P. Wilson, M.A. With 
6 Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d. 

T NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NE1V YORK. 



I 






y ..' 



