THE 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK; 



COiMPILED BY MRS. W. W. BROWN, 



FROM RECIPES 

CONTRIBUTED BY THE LADIES OF PARIS, 

/J / \J^ AND PUBLISHED FOR THE BENEFIT OF 

GRACE (EPISCOPAL) CHURCH. 



-7 0:5 }. 



9 



CLAREMONT, N. II., 

PRINTED FOR THE COMPILER BY 

THE CLAREMONT MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 

1881. 



r^ 






^^^ 



COPYRIGHTED 1881 

BY 

MliS. W. W. BROWN. 



Ill offering this book to the pubhc we can safely rec- 
ommend every recipe, as having been tested, tried and 
' proved. As they have been furnished by ladies, in Paris 
(Ills), noted for their practical skill in the culinary depart- 
ment we are not presumptuous in saying that every house- 
keeper should have the book, and that it is a desirable 
addition to any library. 



tablp: of 
wp:ights and measures. 



1 qt. of wheat flour=l lb. 

1 qt. Indian meal=l lb. 2 oz. 

1 qt. soft bntter=l lb. 

1 qt. broken loaf sugar= 1 lb. 

1 qt. powdered white sugar=l lb. 1 oz. 

1 qt. best brown siigar=l lb. 2 oz. 
10 eggs=l lb. 

16 large tablespoons=l pt. 
8 " tcaspoons=l gill. 
4 " " =i gill. 

2 gills = ^ pt. 

Common size tumbler=|^ pt. 
"• " teaeup=l gill. 

2 large tablespoons = l oz. 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



WOODEN WARE. 

Kitchen table, wash bench, wash tubs, (3 sizes) 
wash board, skirt board, bosom board, bread-board, 
towell roller, potato masher, wooden spoons, clothes 
stick, flour barrel covers, flour sieve, choppii]g 
bowl, soap bowl, pails, lemon squeezer, clothes 
wringer, clothes bars, clothes pins, clothes baskets, 
mop, wood box, and small boards to slice lemons, 
onions etc. on. Salad knife. 

TIN WARE. 

Clothes boiler, ham boiler, bread pan, two dish 
pans, one preserving pan, four milk pans, one quart 
basin, two pint basins, one covered tin pail, sauce 
pans with covers, two sizes, two tin cups with 
handles, one jelly mould, one half pint, one pint 
mould, one skimmer, one dipper, two funnels — one 
for jugs and one for cruets, one quart measure, 
one pint measure, one gill measure, one half pint 



6 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

measure, and they must be broad and low, as sucli 
are more easily kept clean ; three scoops, bread pans, 
two round jelly-cake pans, two pie pans, ditter- 
ent sizes, one coftee pot, one tea-steeper, one colan- 
der, one horse-radish grater, one nutmeg grater, 
one sieve for straining jelly, egg-beater, cake turn- 
er, cake cutter, apple corer, potato cutter, one doz- 
en muffin rings, one soap shaker, ice filter, flour 
dredge, tea canister, coffee canister, cake, bread, 
cracker and cheese boxes, crumb tray, and dust 
pans. 

IRON WARE. 

Hange, one pot with steamer, iron rack to 
heat plates, soup kettle, porcelain kettle, Tea ket- 
tle, large and small frying pans, dripping pans, 
gem pans, iron spoons of different sizes, one grid- 
iron, one griddle, waffle iron, toasting rack, meat 
fork, can opener, coftee mill, jagging iron, flat 
irons, nail hammer, tack hammer, screw driver, ice 
pick, and iron dish rag. 

STONE WARE. 

Crocks of various sizes_, bowls holding six quarts, 
four quarts, two quarts, and one pint, six earth- 
en baking dishes, diflerent sizes, pipkins to stew 
milk or fruit, grease jars. 

BRUSHES. 

Table brush, two dust brushes, two scrub brush- 
es, one blacking brush for stove, shoe brush, crumb 
brush, hearth brush, window brush, brooms. 



?'()m- 



f'^^^riE basis of all good soups is the broth of meat. 
This may be made by boiling the cracked 
joints of beef, veal or mutton, and is best wlien 
cooked the day before it is to be eaten. After put- 
ting the meat into the pot, cover it (onli/), with cold 
water, and let it boil, when it should be well skim- 
med. Before sending to the table, the soup should 
be strained ; al'ter which add the vegetables or sea- 
soning, cooking all well together. A good stock for 
soups may be made from bits of uncooked meat 
and bones, poultry and the remains of game. 

JN'ooDLE Soup. — Get a good soup bone, put it on 
the fire with enough cold water to cover it well. 
Season with salt, ginger and nutmeg, one whole 
onion, and tomatoes if desired. Let it come to a 
boil, and skim well. Let it boil slowly from three 
to four hours. Then strain through a fine sieve, 
put it on to boil; keep filling the pot with hot wa- 
ter as it boils away, until an hour before taking ofif. 
When it boils put in the noodles; let it boil five 
minutes and it is done. Fine chopped parsley is 
considered an addition. 

HoiD to make Noodles. — Take one Qgg^ a little 
salt, flour enough to make a dough that will roll 



8 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

nicely and not stick; roll as thin as a wafer. "When 
nearly dry^ roll an inch and a half wide, cut into 
noodles as fine as possible. They are ready for 
use, and will keep for several weeks. 

MRS. s. H . 

Barley Soup. — Boil, as with noodle soup; after 
it is skimmed well, put in nearly a cup of barley 
which has been previously picked, and washed in 
cold water — stir often to prevent scorching, season 
with parsley or leeks. mrs. s. h . 

Oatmeal Soup. — Boil as before directed, skim 
well ; put in a cup of oatmeal to boil one and a 
half hours, when it is done ; stir often ; season with 
parsley. mrs. s. h . 

Farina Soup. — Boil as directed, skim, and strain 
fifteen minutes before using. Put on to boil and 
stir in, very carefully, half a cup of farina. Let it 
boil fifteen minutes, when it is done. 

MRS. s. H . 

Tomato Soup. — Boil as directed, skim. Put on 
the stove a quart of tomatoes cut up, a little salt; 
when they are quite done, put through a sieve so fine 
as to prevent the seeds from going through ; strain 
into the tomatoes as much of the soup as is need- 
ed for one meal, put on the stove to boil. Then 
stir up two eggs with salt and nutmeg, a little 
parsley and flour to make a thick batter ; when 
the soup boils, drop in dumplings of this batter. 
When the dumplings swim on top it is done. 

MRS. s. H . 



SOUPS. 9 

Tomato Soup, "No. 2. — To one pint of canned to- 
matoes add one quart of boiling water. Let it 
boil, then add one teaspoonful of soda. Stir well, 
and add one pint of sweet milk, with salt, pepper, 
Siud plenty of butter. Boil, and add a few crack- 
ers. MRS. H. M . 

Oyster Soup. — For a quart of oysters, after they 
are strained, pour on a pint of water, and stir with 
a fork, taking out one at a time, so that they will 
be entirely free from shell ; strain the liquor, put 
it in a stewpan over the tire, with two or three 
pieces of mace or nutmeg, a little salt, and a small 
piece of red pepper. When this boils, put in the 
oysters, add one teaspoonful of flour rubbed to a 
paste with two ounces of butter. Add one half 
pint of cream, boil up once and serve hot. 

MRS. H. M . 

Green Pea Soup. — Boil as directed, and skim. 
Put on a quart of washed, shelled peas, with a 
little water. Season with salt, pepper, butter and 
a handful of chopped parsley; let them simmer 
slowly. Pour in as much of the soup as will be 
required for one meal; cook one and a half hours, 
cut some stale light bread in little squares, put in 
the oven to toast, a nice brown ; place in the soup 
tureen and pour the soup over them. 

MRS. s. H . 

French Soup. — After boiling as directed, skim. 
Slice two tomatoes, one onion, two potatoes, one 
carrot, one turnip, a small handful of cabbage ; 



10 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK 

add one ear of corn cut off, parsley, celery and 
leek, if desired, pepper and salt. Put all these 
vegetables on to cook an hour: stir often; strain, 
a little at a time, into this, enough soup for one 
meal, and it is done. 



MRS. s. H.- 



Chicken Soup. — Cut up the cliicken, and cover 
well with water, season with salt, pepper and nut- 
meg; let it boil until the chicken is tender, strain, 
and put on again to boil without the chicken. For 
four or live persons, make dumplings of two eggs, 
chopped parsley, salt and nutmeg. To each Qgg 
two heaping spoonfuls of rolled crackers; stir 
smooth. When the soup boils drop in a teaspoon- 
ful at a time of this batter. When the dumplings 
swim on top they are done. Flour can be used if 
the rolled cracker is not convenient. 

Fo7^ other dumplings. — Marrow of soup bone, with 
one Qgg', season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. 
Mix well with rolled cracker. Take pieces of this 
dough the size of a marble, and drop them into the 

soup. MES. S. H . 

Corn Soup. — One small beef bone, two quarts of 
water, four tomatoes, eight ears of corn; let the 
meat boil a short time in the water ; cut the corn 
from the cob, and put in the cobs w^ith the cut corn 
and tomatoes ; let it boil lialf an hour, remove the 
cobs; just before serving add milk, which allow to 
boil for a few minutes only ; season with salt and 
pepper. 



SOUPS. 11 

Tomato Soup. — Boil one quart of sweet milk, 
one quart of hot water, one quart stewed tomatoes 
with the seeds strained out. Put the tomatoes and 
water together. Wet one and a half tablespoons 
of corn starch with a little cold milk, and put into 
the boiling milk; stir until it thickens; put the 
milk in the tureen, with a little butter, pepper and 
salt; pour the tomatoes in last, and serve quickly. 



Ym 



|m|FTER washing them well they should be al- 
^^ lowed to remain in sufficient salt water to 
cover them. Before cooking wipe them dry, 
dredge them with flour or meal, and season with 
salt and pepper. Small fish are usually fried; all 
large fish should be boiled or baked. 

To Boil Fish. — Put a small onion inside the 
fish and tie with a cord. Cover with cold water, 
and a little vinegar; add a little salt. Let it heat 
to the boiling point — from two to three minutes 
will be suflicient time. Boiling salt water is best 
for salmon as it sets the color. 

Baked Trout or Blue-Fish. — Make a dressing 
of two cups of bread crumbs wet with a little 
milk, an agg^ a little fat pork chopped fine (or but- 
ter), salt, pepper and nutmeg; mix well together; 
stuff the body of the fish with this and sew it up. 
Fry a little pork a nice brown, put it in the pan 
the fish is to be baked in ; add a half teacup of hot 
water, lay the fish in, cover it with small bits of 
butter, salt, fine bread crumbs, and bake one or 
two hours; baste often. Dish the fish, add a little 
more water, flour and butter; give it one boil and 
pour it over the fish. Garnish with slices of lemon. 



FISH. 13 

Broiled White Fish, Fresh. — Wash and drain 
the fish ; sprinkle with pepper and lay with the 
inside down, on the gridiron, and broil over bright, 
fresh coals. When a nice brown, turn on the oth- 
er side for a moment, tlien take np and spread 
with butter. A little smoke under the fish adds 
to its flavor; this may be made by putting two or 
three cobs under the gridiron. 

Fried Fish. — After cleaning the fish, soak it in 
salt water for a little while, wipe dry with a towel, 
season with pepper and a little salt. Roll the piec- 
es in meal, and fry in plenty of hot lard. When 
they are nice brown on one side, turn them over, 
and, when done, pour ofi:'all the grease. Let them 
stand a minute, then serve. MRS. F. m. p. . 

Smoked Halibut. — Shred in pieces (not too fine) 
two handfuls of halibut, and put it on the stove in 
a spider; cover with cold water; let this come to a 
scald, (be sure not to boil); then turn oflTthe water, 
and cover ao^ain with cold water — scald ascain ; 
pour ofiPthe water. Then take equal quantities of 
milk and water, enough to cover, thicken with 
flour, add two well beaten eggs and butter the size 
of an egg. 

Fish Balls. — One quart of fish that has been 
freshened and boned, two quarts of cold, boiled 
potatoes, three slices of salt, fat pork (tried out), 
chop all finely together. Then add three well beat- 
en eggs, one cup sweet milk, make into balls, and 
fry brown in the fat that was tried out. Delicious. 



14 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Minced Salt Fish.— Boil the lish and pick all 
the skin and hones out the day it is boiled, as it is 
most easily done when it is warm. ISText day chop 
it fine, also any cold potatoes left of a previous din- 
ner. Lay three or four slices of salt pork in a spider, 
and let them fry a crisp brown, take them out, put 
in the fish and potatoes, and one gill of milk; stir 
carefully so as not to disturb the sides and bottom, 
else a brown crust will not form. Stir in a small 
piece of butter, when nearly done ; loosen the crust 
from the sides, and turn on a hot dish. It should 
come out whole, and nicely browned. 



^ly^TW- 



]S^EDIUM sized, plump oysters are preferable to 



mi0 very large ones, and the simplest way of 
cooking them is the best. It should be remembered 
that over-cooking spoils the flavor of oysters, and 
makes them indigestible. First, they will grow 
plump, then the edges will ruffle, and any further 
applieaiio7i of heat wUl shrink and toughen them into 
tastelessness. 

OvsTERS ON THE SHELL. — Wash the shclls and 
put them on hot coals, or upon the top of a hot 
stove, or bake them in a hot oven ; open the shells 
with an oyster knife, taking care to lose none of 
the liquor, and serve quicldy on hot plates, with 
toast. Oysters may be steamed in the shells and 
are excellent, served in the same manner. 

Oyster Soup. — Put a quart of oysters to heat in 
their own liquor; when the edges begin to ruffle, 
skim them without delay into a hot dish, and add 
to them, a tablespoonful of butter cut into small 
bits. To the liquor in the saucepan, put three or 
four cups of milk or cream, and season to taste 
with salt and pepper. A few finely broken crack- 
ers must be added, just before serving. 

For Oyster Soup ]N"o. 2 see page 9. Try it — 
Delicious. 



16 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cream Oysters on the Half Shell. — Pour into 
the saucepan a cup of hot water, another of milk, 
and one of thick cream, with a little salt; set the 
saucepan into a kettle of hot water until it just 
boils, then stir in two table spoonfuls of butter, 
and two table spoonfuls of corn starch stirred into 
a little cold milk. Have your 03'ster shells washed 
and buttered, and a tine large oyster laid in each 
one; range them closely in a large baking pan, 
propping them with pebbles or bits of shell, and fill 
up each shell with the prepared cream, having 
stirred and beaten it well, first. Bake five or six 
minutes in a hot oven until a nice brown, and serve 
in the shell. 

Broiled Oysters. — Choose large, fat oysters ; 
wipe them very dry, sprinkle them with salt and 
pepper, and broil upon one of the gridirons with 
close bars, sold for that purpose. You can dredge 
the oysters with flour if you wish to have them 
brown, and many persons fiincy the juices are 
better preserved in that way. Butter the gridiron 
well, and let your fire be hot and clear; Broil 
quickly and dish hot, putting a piece of butter up- 
on each oyster as it is taken from the gridiron. 

Panned Oysters. — Drain the oysters in a colan- 
der, then put them into a very hot frying pan, turn 
them over in a moment, so as to cook both sides. 
As soon as they puff up, which will be almost im- 
mediately, tarn them into a hot platter, which 
should be standing over a kettle of boiling watei' 



OYSTERS. 17 

with some melted butter, salt and pepper ready in 
it. Serve immediately. Canned oysters prepared 
in this way have the flavor of those roasted in the 
shell. 

Stewed Oysters. — Put a quart of oysters to heat 
in their own liquor. When the edges begin to 
ruffle skim them without delay into a hot dish, 
and add to them a table spoonful of butter cut in- 
to small bits. To the liquor in the saucepan put 
a teacup of hot cream or rich milk, and season 
to taste, with salt and cayenne pepper; let it come 
to a boil, skim and pour it over the oysters. Serve 
immediately. 

EscALLOPED Oysters. — Butter a baking dish and 
sprinkle a layer of cracker crumbs over the bot- 
tom ; warm the oysters, very slightly, in their own 
liquor, then arrange a single layer of them over 
the crumbs, placing them close together. The 
juice which clings to each oyster will be sufficient 
to moisten the cracker, unless you use the latter 
too liberally. Season with pepper, salt and a gener- 
ous allowance of butter cut into small bits; put on 
another layer of cracker crumbs, then more oysters 
and seasoning, and continue alternate layers until 
the dish is full. Make the top layer of cracker 
crumbs thicker than the intermediate ones. Cover 
and bake in a quick oven, fifteen minutes, then re- 
move the cover and brown the top. A large dish 
will require longer cooking. A slow oven and too 
long cooking will completely ruin them. 



18 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

EscALLOPED Oysters, N'o. 2. — Crush and roll sev- 
eral handfuls of Boston or other nice crackers ; put 
a layer of them in the bottom of a nicely buttered 
pudding dish; wet this witli a mixture of milk 
and oyster liquor slightly warmed ; next put a 
layer of oysters; sprinkle with salt, pepper and 
bits of butter, then another layer of moistened 
crumbs, and repeat until the dish is full. Let 
the top layer be thicker than the rest, and beat 
an egg into a little milk, and pour it over tliem. 
Put bits of butter thickly over it, and bake half 
an hour. 

Fried Oysters. — After cleaning them from all 
particles of shell, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Koll each oyster in finely rolled cracker, then in 
beaten Qgg, and in cracker crumbs again ; then 
put into a skillet with plenty of hot lard. When 
done on one side turn over. They are best if 
prepared a little while before serving. 

Oyster Toast. — Put a small tablespoonful of but- 
ter into a frying pan, and when it melts add a 
quart of oysters with their juice and a teaspoonful 
of corn starch rubbed smooth with half table spoon- 
ful of butter. Beat an egg and mix it gradually 
with half a cup of hot milk. Stir the oysters with 
the corn starch until the juice is smooth and thick, 
then remove the frying pan from the fire, and add 
the beaten egg and milk; season with salt and pep- 
per. Return to the fire long enough for the egg 
to set, but do not let it boil or the milk will curdle. 



OYSTERS. 19 

Arrange some slices of buttered toast on a hot 
platter, over which place the oysters, and serve 
immediately. 

Oyster Toast, No. 2. Steam two quarts of 
oysters until they ruffle. Boil a half cupful of 
cream thickened with a teaspoon of corn starch 
previously wet with cold milk. Heat one lialf cup 
oyster liquor; season this Avith salt and pepper; 
make several pieces of toast, lay. them on a flat dish 
and put on the oysters : then pour over the cream 
and liquor mixed together at the last moment. 

MRS. c. w. L . 

Oyster Omelette. — Whisk six eggs to a stiff 
froth; add, by degrees, one gill of cream. Beat them 
well together; season with salt and pepper. Have 
ready one dozen fine oysters, cut in halves, pour the 
eggs in a pan of hot butter, drop the oysters over 
it as equally as possible; fry a slight brown, and 
serve hot. 

Oyster Salad. — Drain a quart of oysters from 
their liquor and cut each one into four pieces ; cut 
one or two heads of blanched celery into small 
pieces. Do not chop either celery or oysters but use 
a sharp knife. When prepared set them in separate 
dishes in a cool place, and, just before serving, mix 
them carefully together and place them in the 
dish in which they are to remain. 

Oyster Macaroni. — Boil macaroni in a cloth to 
keep it straight. Put a layer, seasoned with butter, 
pepper and salt, in a dish, then a layer of oysters : 



20 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

alternate until the dish is full. Mix some grated 
bread with a beaten egg, spread it over the top, and 
bake. Grated cheese over the macaroni is consid- 
ered an improvement. 

Beans and Oysters. — Boil beans until ready for 
the baking: season plentifully with pepper, salt, 
butter and bits of pork if liked : put a layer of beans 
into quite a deep baking dish then a layer of raw 
oysters, and so on until the dish is nearly full, 
pour over it a teacupful of the oyster liquor and 
bake one hour. 



?H^^Ai<WT ^m ^m^K 



f^REAM OR Milk Toast. — Boil a quart of new 
^t milk or cream, and thicken with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour mixed with three spoonfuls of cold milk, 
add a little salt and, if milk is used, a little butter; 
stir steadily until well mixed. Toast sUces of 
bread quickly, of an even brown on both sides. 
Dip them into the milk, and let them remain a 
minute. Then lay them in a hot dish, with a cover, 
and. pour over them the remainder of the milk. 

Plain Toast. — Toast slices of light bread, an even 
brown on both sides, and dip each slice, /or a sec- 
ond only, into a pan of boiling water with a little salt 
in it. As you place each slice into a covered dish, 
spread bountifull}^ with butter. 

MRS. w. w. B . 

Mush. — Put into a milk boiler about two quarts of 
water; let it boil, stir into it a large coffee cup of 
Indian meal wet with some cold water, and let it 
boil about ^vq minutes; stir well, and add meal if 
necessary, until very stiff. Let it boil half an hour. 
Butter a dish and turn the hot mush into it. Next 
morning turn out on the bread board, (it should be 
nearly as hard as bread,) cut into slices a half 
inch thick. Have the griddle hot and well but- 
tered. Fry a nice brown. 



22 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Graham Mush. — Take one quart of boiling hot 
water, one teacup of corn meal, one teacup of 
graham flour, one half teaspoon of salt, boil well 
and put in a dish to cool. 

Mush Bread. — Put a pint of sweet milk in a sauce 
pan, and, when it comes to a boil, make a thin mush 
with corn meal. Cook it done and set it aside to 
cool, beat in one egg at a time, until yon put in 
three, add piece of butter size of an egg, a little 
salt. Put in a deep dish and bake. It must be eat- 
en as soon as baked. 

Oatmeal. — Place plenty of water on the stove in 
a milk boiler, and put in the required amount of 
oatmeal, with a little salt. It should be stirred fre- 
quently and cooked one or two hours. Many per- 
sons prefer it steamed. To be eaten with sugar and 
rich cream. 

Pawn-House. — Take a soup bone with plenty of 
meat on it, put it into a kettle of cold water; re- 
move the scum which rises on top; then boil until 
the meat falls from the bone; remove the bones 
after scraping every particle of gristle and marrow 
from them. Chop up your meat and return it to 
the kettle, which you must keep three quarters full; 
salt and pepper to taste, then thicken with corn meal 
as you do mush ; stir until the meat is thoroughly 
impregnated with the meal, then turn out on a 
dish to cool, slice and fry brown. 

Breakfast Dish. — Take slices of dry bread, 
moisten in milk or water, have ready two well 



BREAKFAST AND SUPPER. 23 

beaten eggs seasoned with salt and pepper, into 
which dip the bread, and fry it in hot h\rd. 

Bits of Meat, Hominy, Mush, or anything left 
AFTER A MEAL. — Chop fine, add as many eggs as 
there are persons to eat, a little salt and flour, and 
a spoonful or two of sw^eet cream or milk. Beat 
well together, and fry in little cakes, in butter or 
beef drippings. 

Breakfast Cakes. — If after a boiled chicken you 
have gravy left, mince the pieces of chicken and 
mix with it. Pour it over as much old bread as it 
will soak through, and set it away over night. In 
the morning, cut it in slices and carefully fry it in 
butter to a rich brown. 

Dry Bread and Biscuits. — Take the pieces and 
put them in a pan in a cool oven. When perfectly 
dry and crisp, roll fine, and put away for use ; 
nice for scallopping oysters, potatoes, tomatoes or 
dredging veal after it has been rolled in beaten egg. 

Dry Bread Cakes. — Soak in warm water until 
perfectly soft, mash fine with a spoon, add four or 
1a.ve eggs, pepper and salt, beat all thoroughly to- 
gether. It must be stiff enough to drop from the 
spoon and form a round cake; if too stiff, add a 
little water. Fry in plenii/ of hot lard or butter. 

Breakfast Stew. — Cut the scraps of meat left 
into small bits; lay them in the skillet with a small 
bit of butter; dredge with flour; let the meat brown, 
adding a little water now^ and then to prevent 
burning. When well browned, add three sliced 



24 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

potatoes, cold or raw, one sliced onion, and one 
pint of hot water; stew until the vegetables are 
done; there sliould be nearly a pint of gravy when 
done — if necessary, add water. 

Scotch Stew. — Four pounds of lean beef passed 
through a sausage mill, one onion chopped fine, 
half a teaspoon of salt, pepper to taste. Place in a 
covered vessel with one teacup of boiling water. 
Let it stew slowly three or four hours; just before 
taking off, add butter, size of an egg. Add water 
when necessar}'. 

Hash. — Put one and a half teacups of boiling 
water into a sauce pan, mix a tablespoon ful of tiour 
with a little cold water, pour it into the pan, and let 
it cook three minutes; add salt, pepper and butter, 
chop the cold meat into hash, put it into a tin pan, 
pour the gravy over it, and let it thoroughly heat, 
but not cook. If preferred, add equal quantities of 
cold, boiled, chopped potatoes, and, if you have 
an}', the gravy left of yesterday's meat, and you 
will need less butter. 

Hash— No. 2. — Chop fine some cold beef, or pieces 
of steak that is juicy, and put in the skillet on 
the fire, with plenty of water ; slice three or four 
large potatoes, raw, and put into the skillet ; also 
chop as much onion as you like, season with salt 
and pepper, a good sized lump of butter and a half 
gill of cream. Let it boil until the potatoes are 
thoroughly done. If you like the gravy thickened, 
sprinkle a little flour in the skillet. Very good. 

MRS. B . 



BREAKFAST AND SUPPER. 25 

Green Tomatoes, Fried. — Slice rather thin, and 
roll in corn meal ; salt and pepper, and place in a 
hot frying pan, loell buttered; cover closely, and fry 
until perfectly tender and nicely browned. If you 
don't like them at first, try again, as they some- 
times require a cultivated taste. 

Corn Fritters. — To eight large full ears of corn, 
grated, or shaved thin and scraped, add a little salt 
and pepper, a tablespoonful of cream or milk, and 
four eggs. Beat the yolks with the corn, the whites 
stiff, and stir all together. Have plenty of hot 
lard in the skillet ; fry in small cakes, dropped from 
the spoon ; after browning on one side turn them. 
Serve in a platter. 

Fried Cucumbers. ^Pare, cut into lengthwise 
pieces, a quarter of an inch thick, and lay in cold 
or ice water, half an hour. Take out, wipe dry, 
season with salt and pepper; dredge with flour, 
and fry a Ught brown. 

EiPE Cucumber Salad. — Wash and pare one 
dozen ripe, yellow cucumbers, cut them into strips, 
and take out the seeds; chop them into bits as 
small as a pea; chop with them, (or separately) 
twelve large white onions, and six large green 
peppers ivithout the seeds. Mix all well together, 
and add one teaspoonful of white or black mustard 
seed, two tablespoonfuls of celery seed. To this 
mixture pour one teacup of salt. Put the whole 
into a cotton bag to drain over night. I^ext morn- 
ing turn it out, put into jars, and fill up with the 



2# ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

coldest strong cider vinegar. Keep it tightly 
corked from the air, and in four weeks it will be a 
delicate relish for breakfast or supper. It looks 
very inviting, as it is white and crisp. 

Parsnip Fritters. — Scrape and halve tlie pars- 
nips ; boil tender in hot salted water, mash 
smooth, picking out the woody bits ; add a beaten 
egg to every four parsnips: salt and pepper to 
taste, and flour enough to make a thick batter; 
drop by the spoonful into hot lard and fry brown. 
Drain into a hot colander, and dish. 

Potato Pancakes. — Grate six good sized raw 
potatoes, season with salt and pepper, three eggs not 
beaten, a tablespoon of flour, a very little milk and 
a pinch of baking powder. Mix all well together, 
and fry in a skillet, like pancakes, with plenty of 
grease. . mrs. s. h . 

Fricadelles. — Take the meat from the soup 
bones, chop fine, with some onion and parsley; 
fry a little bread as for dressing, and mix with the 
pepper and salt, and two eggs. Make into little 
balls, and fry brown. 

Fricadelles — No. 2. Mix one pound of chopped 
veal or other meat, two eggs, a httle butter, one 
cup or less, of bread crumbs, one chopped onion ; 
the whole well moistened with warm water, or 
water from stewed meat, season with salt and pep- 
per. Make into balls and fry brown. 

MRS. s. II . 



BREAKFAST AND SUPPER. 27 

Croquets. — One quart finely chopped beef, one 
common sized onion, six square crackers, salt and 
pepper to taste, one teacup of boiling water; make 
into cakes: beat one egg, and dip cakes in egg 
and flour, fry in hot lard — excellent. 

MRS. K. R — . 

Meat Scallops. — Take small tin patty pans, and 
line them with mashed potatoes ; mince any kind of 
cold meat, and mix with it a little bread crumbs, 
minced boiled onion, salt and pepper; moisten with 
a little cold gravy. Put a layer of tiiis over the 
potatoes; then a layer of potatoes on top. Smooth 
nicely and lay small bits of butter on top ; brown in 
a hot oven. 

Minced Meat on Toast. — Chop fine all the cold 
meat left from dinner, place in a spider with a lit- 
tle hot water; add a little flour and butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. Heat thoroughly, but not too long. 
Pour this over slices of toasted bread. 

Scalloped Eggs.— Mince any kind of cold meat; 
season with salt and pepper, and a few bread crumbs, 
cover the bottom of saucers with it, putting in each 
small bits of butter. Break a fresh egg on top. 
Set in a hot oven, and when the egg begins t© cook, 
sprinkle a little salt, pepper, and rolled 'cracker. 
Send to the table hot. Nice for breakfast or 
lunch. 

Delmonico Sauce. — Take an ounce of ham or 
bacon, cut it up in small pieces and fry in hot fat; 
add an onion and a carrot cut fine, thicken with 



28 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

flour; then acid a quart of broth seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and let it simmer for an hour; 
skim carefully, and strain ; a wineglass of any 
wine added will be a great improvement. Cold 
roast boiled beef, or mutton may be cut into 
small squares, fried brown in butter, and then 
gently stewed in this sauce. 

French Croquettes. — Veal, mutton, lamb, 
sweatbreads, and any lighter meats, except chicken 
and turkey, can be judiciously turned into cro- 
quettes. Chop the meat, very line; chop up an onion 
and fry it in an ounce of butter; add a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, stir well and add the chopped meat, a 
little broth, salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. Stir 
two or three minutes, then add the yolks of two 
eggs, and turn into a dish to cool. When cool, 
mix well together again. Divide up into parts for 
the croquettes ; roll in bread crumbs. Dip in 
beaten eggs, then in bread crumbs, and fry crisp, a 
bright golden color. 

Bread Omelette. — One large teacup of bread, 
one teacup of cream, one teaspoon of batter, four 
eggs, salt and pepper ; fry like an omelette. 

Omelette. — Beat Ave eggs, whites and yolks 
separately ; one tablespoonful of flour, mix smooth- 
ly with a cup of milk and a little salt, pour into a 
buttered spider; when partly done, turn half over. 

Tomato Omelette. — One teacup cold tomatoes, 
stewed ; beat up two or three eggs with a table- 



BREAKFAST AND SUPPER. 29 

spoonful of flour. Pour into a well buttered spider 
and, when well set, fold over and serve at once; 
to be eaten w^ith butter. 

Asparagus Omelette. — Steam some fresh cut 
tender asparagus, and chop fine; mix with the 
yolks of five eggs and the whites of three, well beat- 
en, and two tablespoonfuls of rich cream. Fry, and 
serve quite hot. 

Cheese Omelette. — Beat six eggs very light, 
add two tablespoonfuls of cream, butter the size of 
a walnut, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
and two ounces of grated cheese ; beat well ; butter a 
pan ; cook a light brown, told over and serve. 
Shake the pan while cooking. 

Grated Ham Sandwiches. — Grate finely as much 
well-cooked ham as you are likely to need, flavor 
with a little cayenne pepper and nutmeg. Roll out 
some good pulf paste very thin, cut it into two 
perfectly even portions; prick in one or two places 
to keep from rising too high, and bake in a quick 
oven until a golden brown. Then take it out and 
let it stand till cool ; then spread a little fresh but- 
ter lightly, over the whole. N'ow, spread the 
ham evenly over the paste, and lay the second 
piece evenly over it. With a sharp knife, cut in- 
to small sized sandwiches. 

Potato Balls. — Mash eight nicely boiled pota- 
toes; add salt, pepper, butter and two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream. Stir well, and make into balls; roll 
in beaten egg^ then in crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 



3Q ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Ham Omelette. — Cut the ham into small dice, 
put into a frying pan with a little butter ; stir well. 
When nearly cooked, pour in the eggs, which have 
been previously well beaten; when well set, turn 
half over and serve. If the ham has been boiled, 
it should be put in at the same time with the eggs. 

Cheese Relish.— One fourth of a pound of 
fresh cheese cut in thin slices ; put in a frying pan 
and pour over it a large cupful of sweet milk ; add 
a quarter of a teaspoon of dry mustard, pinch of 
salt, pepper and a little butter; stir the mixture all 
the time. Roll three crackers very line, and 
sprinkle in gradually; then turn at once into a 
warm dish. Serve immediately. 

Eggs — Fried. — Grease a skillet, and, when hot, 
break in the eggs without disturbing the yolks; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, coveVj and when 
done to suit, cut with a spoon and serve. 

Eggs — Baked. — ^Butter a pie-pan, and break into 
it seven or eight eggs, so as not to disturb the 
yolks; salt and pepper to taste, with a small bit of 
butter on the top of each egg; place in the oven 
and let remain until the whites are well set, when 
they will be done. 

Eggs — Scrambled. — For a family of six, beat well 
ten eggs; have a spider quite hot; put in a piece 
of butter the size of an egg; when melted, turn 
iu the eggs, stirring all the time, until all are 
cooked, but not too much done; salt and pepper. 



BREAKFAST AND SUPPER. 31 

Eggs — Scrambled, ^o. 2. — Heat a plate until it is 
veri/, very Ao/, place on the table and break into it as 
many eggs as required; season with salt and pep- 
per; stir until all are cooked. This is a very nice 
dish for those who do not Uke ec]:ij:s too much 
cooked. 

Scalloped Eggs. — See page 27. 

Eggs for Lunch. — Boil half a dozen or a dozen 
eggs, (for several hours, which renders them as di- 
gestible as soft boiled eggs) until verj/hard; re- 
move the shells and cut in halves length-wise ; then 
chop together some cold, boiled ham, cucumber 
pickle and the yolks very line; season with salt, 
pepper, and sufficient mixed mustard to moisten 
enough to roll into balls, and lay one in each half 
of the whites. Place in a dish and garnish with 
parsle3\ miss a. c . 

A Simple Omelette. — Break all your eggs in 
one plate ; stir rather than beat up the whites and 
yolks. To each three eggs put in a teaspoonful of 
cold water; salt and pepper to taste. Chop fine 
some parsley, put two ounces of butter into a pan, 
and, when hot, pour in the eggs; just as soon as it 
is cooked on one side, turn quickly and cook on 
the other side. Double it over, when you serve it 
on a venj hot plate. The cold water in the Qgg 
makes the omelet light and moist. 



mm^- 



I^HOCOLATE.— For those who use a great deal 
^t of chocolate the following is an economical 
method. Cut a cake into small bits, and put them in- 
to a pint of boiling water ; in a few minutes set off of 
the fire, and stir until the chocolate is dissolved; then 
boil it again gently and pour it into a bowl ; set in 
a cool place; it will keep good eight or ten days. 
For use, boil a spoonful or two in a pint of milk 
with sugar. 

Chocolate — ^o. 2. — Put a quarter of a pound of 
chocolote into two quarts of water ; stir frequently 
until dissolved ; give it one boil, add one pint of 
cream (or one quart of milk) and give it one more 
boil. Sweeten to taste. 

Cocoa. — The cracked cocoa is considered the 
best. Two tablespoonfuls put into a pint of cold 
Avater, and boiled two or three hours. Boil it over 
several times and add a little to it each time ; boil 
the milk by itself. 

Coffee. — First have a good article of coffee ; 
look it over carefully, removing all sticks and 
stones and black grains; put in a bread pan, and 
place in a stove oven, having the heat, at first, suffici- 
ent to expand the grains, and gradually increasing 



DRINKS. 33 

it till the coffee is a dark brown, stirring frequently. 
By no means allow it to burn ; on removing it from the 
oven, stir in a piece of butter as large as a hickory 
nut, for three pints of coffee ; this forms a glazing 
which excludes the air, preventing it from losing 
its strength ; it also improves it. Place it in a tin 
pan, and keep it tightly covered. Always put the 
cream, in the cup before pouring in the hot coffee, 
and stir the cream while filling the cup. In prepar- 
ing coffee allow one table spoonful of ground coffee 
to each person; put the required amount into the 
coffee pot, put in a little of the white of an egg, and 
pour in some cold water, stirring w^ell; then pour in 
the proportionate amount of boiling water ; let it 
boil about twenty minutes, set back off* the stove, 
and settle with a very little cold water. Mocha and 
government Java coffee mixed, one part Mocha, 
two parts Java, make the most delicious coff'ee. 

Tea. — Allow a teaspoonful of tea to each person, 
put it into the tea-pot, and pour in one cupful of boil- 
ing water to every teaspoonful of tea; if it is green 
tea let it steep for a little while, but not boil, but if 
black tea it is better to boil it. Do not use water 
that has boiled long for tea. Spring water is best, 
and filtered water next best for tea. 

Iced tea. — After the tea, niade quite strong, is 
perfectly cold, add ice to each glass. If you like 
place a slice of lemon in the bottom of each cup 
before pouring in the tea, and then sweeten to 
taste. 



34 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK 

Soda Cream. — Two and a half pounds of white 
sugar, ono eighth of a pound of tartaric acid, both 
dissolved in one quart of hot water; when cold, 
add the beaten whites of three eggs, stirring well ; 
bottle for use; put two large spoonfuls of this syrup 
in a glass of ice-water, and flavor with vanilla, lem- 
on, pineapple or any flavoring, then add one fourth 
of a spoonful of bi-carbonate of soda. An excellent 
substitute for good soda water. 



f^^^m- 



fENERxlL EuLES. — All salt meat should be put 
on ill cold water, that the salt may be extracted 
while cooking; fresh meat should be put to cook in 
boiling water ; when the outer fibres contract the in- 
ner juices are preserved. For making 50Mp, put the 
meat in cold water to extract the juices for the 
broth. In boihng meats add hoi water, when more 
water is needed, and be careful to keep the water 
on the meat constantly boiling; remove the scum 
when it first begins to boil; the more gentli/ meat 
boils the more tender it will become. Roast meats 
require a brisk fire. Baste often. 

EoAST Beef, Rabe. — Take a rib or loin roast of 
seven or eight pounds, rinse itofi:', season with salt, 
pepper, flour, and, if liked, a chopped onion. If 
not fat, take a strip of bacon, place in a pan with 
a little water, roast one hour, (if preferred quite done 
two hours), in a hot oven. The seasoning gets 
through the meat better if the meat is stuck with a 
knife in a number of places, and the seasoning 
rubbed into these holes with the finger. Gravy — 
pour ofl' nearly all the grease left in the pan after 
the meat has been taken up, and mix some browned 



36 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

flour with a little cold water; pour into the pan ; 
set it on the top of the stove and let it boil a few 
minutes; if too thick add hot water, stirring well. 

MRS. s. H . 



FiLLET-DE-BoEUF. — Take the whole tenderloin, 
cutcrosswise, in strips, one-half inch apart; between 
the strips, lay strips of bacon, as long as 3^our fin- 
ger. Then rub well \\\\.\\ salt and pepper. Put a 
little water into the roasting pan and place it in the 
oven. Into the pan put half of an oiiion, some 
cloves, and a piece of butter. Bake half an hour 
in a quick oven. Thicken the gravy with flour. 
When done pour in a little sour cream. 

MRS. s. H . 

Beefsteak, llAMBURa. — Have a porter-house or 
loin steak cut thick. Scrape oft" with a spoon, and 
wipe clean with a towel; season with salt, pepper, 
and flour. Cut deep gashes in each side, instead 
of pounding. Have a skillet with a little smoking 
hot grease, lay in the steak, cover it with finely 
chopped onion : fry (pjickly ; when brown on one 
side, turn it over ; when brown take it out, pour 
a little water in the skillet, let it boil until the onion 
is soft; pour over the steak on the dish. 

MRS. s. H . 

Tomatoes put on the steak while cooking, is an 
improvement. 

Beeksteak, fried Vienna. — Have the steak chop- 
ped fine in the butcher's shop. Season with salt and 
pepper. Have a little grease in a very hot skillet, 



MEATS. 37 

put in pieces about an inch thick and three or four 
inclies square, fry brown on both sides. 

MRS. s. H . 

Beefsteak, broiled. Scrape or wipe off, and 

cut deeply on each side instead of beating it. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Put on to broil ; w^hen 
brown on both sides put on a hot dish and spread 
well with good butter. 



MRS. s. H- 



Beefsteak, broiled No. 2. — Grease the bars of 
the broiler with butter, beat or cut the steak, which 
must be cut thick, season with salt and pepper. 
Place on the broiler over hot coals without a blaze. 
As the juice of the meat accumulates on the top of 
the meat, take off with the fork and pour this juice 
into a teacup, put on the broiler again and so on 
until thoroughly done. Place on a hot platter. To 
the juice in the cup add a big lump of butter and 
about enough hot, clear coffee to color it a nice 
brown. Pour this gravy over the steak. 

MRS. w. w. B . 

Beefsteak, broiled, ¥0. 3. — Have a skillet, with- 
out any grease, very, very hot. After the steak has 
been prepared and seasoned lay it in the skillet, 
put a little butter on top and continue to hack it 
with a knife; turn quite often. When brown on 
both sides, it is done. Serve with plenty of but- 
ter. 

MRS.^J. H— — . 



38 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Beefsteak, a la mock duck. — Take a good sized 
round steak, season and prepare as for frying; place 
in the center as much dressing (made of bread 
as for fowls) as it will hold. Fold up the sides 
and fasten the ends with a piece of strong thread ; 
season tlie outside, ^vith salt, pepper and flour. 
Place in the bread pan, with some cold water, put 
in the oven and bake as a roast. When done slice 
across the end in slices half an inch thick. 

Dry Beef. — Cut in very thin slices. Place in a 
pan and cover well with tepid water : let it gradu- 
ally boil, then pour oif the water. Sprinkle the 
beef with pepper, and butter, which let melt and 
boil for a minute. You may add beaten eggs, or 
cream and flour worked well together. It may be 
served on thin slices of toast which has been dip- 
ped in boiling water with a little salt in it. 

Yeal Steak. — Wash, and drj^ with a towel, 
pound ivell, with a steak- mallet. Season wath salt, 
pepper and flour. Put a good sized spoonful of 
grease in. a hot skillet and lay in the steak with 
some chopped onions, and fry quite done. Make 
gravy in the usual way — hot water and flour. 

MRS. s. H . 

Yeal Cutlets. — Take two or more cutlets, pound 
well with a potato masher, then wash and dry them 
on a clean towel, season with salt and pepper. 
Have ready a half pint of bread crumbs or rolled 
cracker. Whisk two eggs, with one gill of milk, 
and pour over the cutlets, then take out one at a 



MEATS. 39 

time, dip in tlie bread cvumha, pat ivell, \v\th the 
back of a spoon, in order to make the crumbs ad- 
here well to tlie meat. Put in boiling-hot lard, 
and fry slowly until well browned on both sides. 
Serve hot. 

Yeal Patties. — Three and a half pounds of 
veal, six small crackers, one tablespoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, one nutmeg, one slice 
of pork chopped with the veal, a piece of butter 
the size of an Qgg: roll the cracker fine. Mix 
with the spices and meat. Make into a loaf like 
bread, put bits butter and grated bread crumbs on 
the top. Put it into a pan with a little water. Baste 
frequently while baking; bake two hours. To be 
eaten cold. 

MRS. c. w. L^ . 

Yeal Omelet. — Three and a half pounds of 
veal when chopped, six butter crackers, two eggs, 
a half tea-cup of butter, one tablespoon of salt, 
one of pep[)er; chop the veal fine; roll the cracker 
fine; beat the eggs with the butter. Mix all to- 
gether with your hand. Make into a loaf, sprinkle 
over with rolled crackers, and butter; bake three 
hours; have a little salt, pepper, water and butter 
in a pan to baste it with afterwards. A small piece 
of pickled pork is very nice instead of the half cup 
of butter. 

MRS. GEO. B . 

Beef can be substituted for the veal, and baked 
one hour. 



40 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

To Corn Beef. — To every four gallons of water 
allow two pounds of brown sugar, and six pounds 
of salt; boil twenty minutes, taking off the scum. 
The next day pour it on the meat packed in a pick- 
ling tub, pour off this brine, boil and strain every 
two months, adding three ounces of brown sugar 
and half a pound of common salt. It will keep 
good a year. Sprinkle the meat with salt the next 
day, wipe dry before turning the pickle over it. 
Let it entirel}^ cover the meat and add four ounces 
of saltpetre. Canvas lids are excellent, as they ad- 
mit the air and exclude the flies. Turn the pieces 
whenever the vessel is uncovered. 

Preserving Beef. — For preserving one hundred 
pounds of beef take six pounds of salt, two ounces 
of saltpetre, two tablespoonfuls of soda, two pounds 
of sugar and four gallons of water. Mix well to- 
gether; sprinkle the bottom of the barrel with salt, 
put in the beef with very little salt between the 
layers, pour over the brine and put on a weight 
to keep all well covered. 

Pickled Tongue. — Take a corned ox-tongue and 
boil it until tender; take off the skin; put it into a 
stone basin or jar, and cover it with good cider vin- 
egar; add a few allspice, whole pepper corns and 
cloves — not more than a dozen of each. 

Pickled Tongue, No. 2. — To one tongue, two 
handfuls of salt, a little garlic, one teaspoonful of 
saltpetre, mixed with the salt, two slices of lemon ; 
rub all on the tongue. Place the tongue in a jar 



MEATS. 41 

with the seasoninsc, whole cloves and peppers. To a 
quart of water add one gill of strong cider vinegar ; 
a heavy stone on top of the phite will keep the 
tongue thoroughly covered. It is ready for use in 
two or three weeks. It must he hoiled in the 
usual manner, and peeled before it is ready for the 
table. MRS. s. ii • 

Stewed Tongue. — Cut square fillets of bacon, 
which dredge with a mixture of chopped parsley, 
salt, pepper, and a little allspice. Lard the tongue 
with the fillets. Put into a sauce-pan two ounces 
of bacon cut in slices, four sprigs of parsley, two 
of thyme, a little garhc, two cloves, two carrots cut 
in small pieces, two small onions, salt and pepper. 
Lay the tongue on the whole, w^et with a glass of 
white wine and a o-lass of broth. Set on a moder- 
ate fire and simmer about five hours, keeping it 
well covered. Pat the tongue on a dish and strain 
the sauce over it. 

Potato Edging for Tongue. — Mash potatoes 
and season with butter, pepper, salt and cream; 
dish in lumps, witb a large spoon, and stick a sprig 
of parsley into each one. 

Lamb's Liver. — Cut in slices a half inch tliick, 
beat the yolks of two eggs, and dip the slices first 
in egg then in crumbs ; season with salt and pep- 
per, and fry in hot drippings. 

To Stew Tripe, — Six pounds of tripe ; when well 
parboiled, cut in pieces, and put into water enough 
to stew ; when quite tender, (which may take sev- 



42 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

eral hours) add three pints of sweet milk, four 
tablespoons of flour, two onions, pepper and salt, 
and three-fourths of a cup of butter. Let them 
stew fifteen minutes, and it will be read}^ for use. 

Tripe-a-la-Creole.— Cut two pounds of tripe 
into thin strips, three inches long and half an inch 
wide ; wash them for a few minutes in tepid water ; 
slice two onions, chop them fine, and put them into 
a frying pan with a tablespoonful of good butter: 
take three tomatoes and remove the skins by put- 
ting in hot water: when the onion is perfectly 
brown put on the tomato in slices, a pinch of parslej^, 
pepper and salt. Let this cook six minutes, then 
add a glassful of white wine. Let it then simmer. 
Have the tripe now ready, h iviiig hente I it thor- 
oughly in a sauce pan with a little water. Mix the 
tripe and sauce together in the sauce pan and let 
it cook. Serve as liot as possible. 

Sweetbreads, Fried. After lying in salt and 
water, put them in cold water a few minutes, then 
dry on a cloth thoroughly; fry them with little 
strips of salt pork, or dip in beaten egg and bread 
crumbs; fry in hot lard — stir one tablespoonful of 
flour into a half cup of rich cream; let it boil for 
a few minutes, pour over and serve hot. 

Sweetbreads, Stewed. — Wash, remove all the 
bits of skin, soak in salt and water one hour, then 
parboil; when half cooked remove from the fire, 
cut in small pieces, stew them in a little water un- 
til tender, add a piece of butter, a teaspoon of salt 



MEATS. 43 

and one of flour, and boil np once. Serve on 
toast, very hot. 

SwEATBREADS, Broiled. — Parboil, after soaking 
in salt water; rub well with butter, and broil; 
turn often, and dip in melted butter to prevent 
them from becoming hard and drv. 

Roasted Yenison. A leg of venison shouhl be 
roasted one and a half to three hours. The dry 
skin should be taken off, before roasting, with the 
fingers, not with a knife. The spit should be 
turned very often ; when half done, it should be 
basted with flour, butter and red wine, very fre- 
quently, until done. A saMle of venison is much 
the best piece of the deer ; requires half the time 
to roast it that it does the leg, for it is a much 
thinner piece. Dress in the same manner as the leg. 

Venison Gravy. — For a leg of venison take 
five pounds of coarse beef, boil five or six hours. 
To three quarts of this liquor add a half pint 
of port wine, one nutmeg, two teaspoons of pow- 
dered cloves, a half pound of butter, a little sugar, 
and thicken with browned flour; after boiling the 
beef and spices together, strain, before adding the 
other ingredients; add mace, and a half pint of 
brandy if liked. Salt to taste. 

A Venison Steak. — Cnt steaks, from the leg, one 
inch thick; broil about five minutes, season with 
salt, pepper and butter; a cupful of the roast veni- 
son gravy poured over it, very hot, is nice, or one 



44 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

half cop of currant jelly thickened with a little 
browned flour and butter boiled up and turned 
over the steak. 

Venison Pie. — Take the neck and breast of the 
venison, cut into sraall pieces, season with salt, 
pepper, and a little ground cloves; put into the pie 
dish as thick as possible, fill up the dish with some 
venison gravy or a gravy made of flour, butter, 
hot water, salt and pepper. Put into the oven for 
half an hour to stew, then add a nice pie-crust 
and bake half an hour lono^er. 

Sausage. — Ten pounds of fresh pork, six table- 
spoonfuls of sage, three tablespoonfuls of salt, two 
or three tablespoons of black pepper. 

To Boil a Ham. — Prepare the ham the night be- 
fore, and let it soak all night in cold water : as soon 
as the water conies to a boil pour it off, and add 
cold water again ; then add a quart of champagne 
cider, (if this cannot be obtained hard cider will 
do,) and a few whole spices ; cover closely and let 
it boil slowly until perfectly tender. Very nice. 

MRS. G. B . 

Fricassee of Calf's Tongue.— Boil the tongue 
one hour: pare and cut into thick slices: roll them 
in flour and fry in drippings five minutes; put the 
tongues into a sauce pan, add sliced onion, thyme 
and parsley; cover with a cupful of soup, or 
other gravy. Simmer half an hour, covered tightly ; 
take up the tongues and keep them warm ; strain 
the gravy, thicken, put in four or fiva thin slices 



MEATS. 45 

of peeled lemon, boil one minute and pour over the 
fricassee. 

Stuffed or Dressed Ham. — Mix one quart of 
grated light bread with a teaspoon each of mace, 
nutmeg, cloves, allspice, salt, thyme, sweet basil, fat 
meat, and parsley chopped fine, and a little butter 
and brandy to soften the dressing. Boil and skin 
a nice ham, make incisions about an inch apart 
as deep as possible, and stuff with the above mix- 
ture. Spread the yolk of an egg over the top and 
then grate bread-crumbs thickly over it. Bake 
until brown. Veri/ nice. 

Curing Hams. — Rub salt all over them as soon as 
cut and laid on a table : the next day brush off and 
pack in a cask. Put on a pickle made as follows ; 
one quart of salt to one gallon of water : to six 
gallons of water, one half gallon of molasses and 
three ounces of saltpetre. Let the hams remain 
in six or eight weeks, according to size. Smoke to 
suit, and pack away in salt in a cask. Put in a cool, 
dry place, and they will keep good all summer. 

A Lunch for Travelling. — Chop sardines, ham 
and a few pickles quite fine; mix with mustard, 
pepper, catsup, salt and vinegar. Spread between 
slices of bread nicel,y buttered. 

Grated Ham Sandwiches. — See page, 29. 

Ham Omelet. — See page, 30. 



nm^- 



]raOAST Turkey. — Clean, and wash out the crop 
^^ and body of the turkey with soda and w^ater, 
rinsing it out afterwards ; stuff with a force-meat 
made of bread crumbs, a little cooked sausage, pep- 
per, salt and butter ; truss the turkey neatly, lay it in 
the dripping pan, pour boiling water over it and 
roast about ten minutes to the pound, after the 
cooking actually commences. Cook slowly at first, 
basting often and freely. Ten minutes before taking 
it up, dredge with fiour, and baste with butter ; pour 
off the fat from the top of the gravy ; thicken with 
browned iiour, and season ; boil once, and serve 
in a gravy boat. To make oi/sier dressing, take 
a pint of oysters to five cents worth of crackers 
rolled fine ; wash the oysters and take them out with 
a fork ; strain the liquor into the crackers, put 
in the oysters ; season with salt, pepper and butter. 
Fowls should always be killed the day before they 
are used. Mix the seasoning — salt, pepper and gin- 
ger — in a saucer, and rub the fowl welly inside and 
outside, with it, the night before it is to be used. 
If the fowl is not fat enough use strips of bacon 
or butter. Put in a roasting pan with a quart of 



FOWLS. 47 

water, baste frequently while cooking; when clone 
thicken the water with flour, for gravy. Ducks, 
chickens and geese are all baked alike. 

Dressing for Fowls. — Soak some stale bread in 
cold water; squeeze out well ; have some butter hot 
in a skillet, cut into it finely chopped onion, put in 
the bread, let it fry about fifteen minutes, stirring 
all the time. Take it out into a bowl. When cooled 
season with pepper, salt, nutmeg and chopped pars- 
ley ; if preferred chop the liver and heart fine, 
break two or four eggs, mix all with the bread with 
the back of a spoon so it will work nicely together. 
Place it in the ibwl. 

MRS. s. H . 

To Roast a Goose. — Take a young goose, pick 
and singe and clean it well; boil half an hour, to 
take out the strong, oily taste, then make the dress- 
ing with two ounces finely chopped onion, one 
ounce green sage, chopped fine, one large cofiee 
cup bread crumbs, some mashed potatoes, pepper, 
salt, butter the size of a walnut, yolk of one or 
two eggs; mix these well together, and stufiT the 
goose; do not fill entirely, as the stuffing requires 
room to swell. It will take one and a half hours 
to roast it thoroughly. Sauce — Put into a saucepan 
one tablespoonful of made mustard, half a tea- 
spoonful of red pepper, one glass port vvine and a 
gill of the gravy ; mix and warm, and pour over 
the goose just before serving. 

MRS. s. II . 



48 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Chicken, a-la-mode. — Put the chicken on in just 
enough cold water to cover it, and boil until the 
bones easily leave the flesh ; separate the meat from 
the bones and boil the gravy to a jelly ; chop the 
meat fine, mix it with pepper, salt and spice; boil 
some eggs hard; slice thin; line a deep dish with 
them; put in the chicken and gravy; when cold 
turn on to a dish, to be sliced thin. Nice for tea 
or for lunch. mrs. c. w. l . 

Fricassee— Young Chickens — After the chickens 
are cleaned, cut off the wings and flatten with the 
rolling pin ; do the same with tlie back and breast 
(cutting each in two pieces, the back crosswise;) 
clean the giblets nicel}^, and, having washed all to- 
gether, in cold water slightly salted, put them in a 
stew pan with just enough water to cover them, 
or half milk and half water; add a few pep- 
per-corns, a little mace and a little salt; (a head 
of young lettuce is an improvement). Cover the 
stew pan and let the chicken boil until quite ten- 
der ; strain off half a pint of the liquor into another 
saucepan ; add half a pint of boiling milk, set it on 
the fire, stir into it a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
in flour, and continue to stir, until quite smooth ; 
add a little nutmeg; after it is taken off stir in any 
kind of flavoring — vinegar or wine. Arrange the 
chickens in a deep dish, pour the gravy over them 
and send to the table covered. 

Fricassee — Young Chicken, No. 2 — Clean the 
chicken, and cut it up as if for frying; place the 



FOWLS. 49 

pieces in a skillet filled with water and add a little 
salt; when the water is all out put in a large table- 
spoonful of butter and some pepper ; the pieces will 
fry a light brown on one side, when tarn over and 
fry a nice brown on the other side ; if necessary 
add more butter. When done, take up the chick- 
en, and make plenty of gravy with flour and hot 
water, in the usual manner. This is a good plan 
for those who are very fond oi fried chicken, when 
the chicken is a little too old to fry in the usual 
way. 

Birds are dressed, split open in the back and 
baked in the oven or broiled. While they are 
broiling, they should be lifted from the broiling iron 
occasionally and dipped in a gravy of melted but- 
ter, pepper and salt, flavored strongly with port 
wine. 



^iK'W^?, ^^I.J\P^ e^J^p flPU^^' 



fAUCE FOR CHICKEN SALAD, SLAW OR LETTUCE. — 
Two eggs, two tablespoonfiils of sugar, one 
half teaspoon of ground mustard, one half teaspoon 
of pepper, one half teaspoon of salt. Beat all well 
together, add one teacup of vinegar, boil all togeth- 
er in a cup set in hot water, and, when thick as 
custard, add a lump of butter the size of a hen's egg. 

MRS. KATE R . 

Cold Sauce — One fourth pound of butter beaten 
to a cream; add gradually one fourth pound sugar; 
add lemon juice; beat till very white; or one cup 
sugar, piece butter size of an egg, beat to a cream ; 
add one glass of wine, and the white of one egg 
beaten to a stiff' froth. 

Pudding Sauce — One gill of milk, or wine and 
water, one fourth pound sugar, two eggs, beaten to a 
stiff" froth; pour the liquid, boiling hot, into the 
eggs and sugar. I^utmeg. 

Lemon Sauce — One cup sugar, one half cup but- 
ter, one egg, one lemon-juice and grated rind, three 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water, put into a pan; set 
over the steam, and stir till it thickens. 



SAUCES, SALADS AND PICKLES. 51 

Chili Sauce. — One large onion, two red peppers, 
six large tomatoes, one tablespoon of salt, one tea- 
spoon of ginger, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one 
teaspoon of cloves, two tablespoons of brow^n sugar, 
and two teacups of vinegar. Boil slowly two hours 

and stir well. 

MRS. G. L . 

Pudding Sauce. — One pint of boiling water, a 
half pint of sugar, a half tablespoon of butter, one 
tablespoon of flour or corn starch, one tablespoon 
of vinegar. Berry juice gives a good flavor and 
a nice color. 

MRS. GEO. L . 

Salad Dressing. — Four eggs beaten well, two ta- 
blespoons mixed mustard, one tablespoon hard but- 
ter, five tablespoons vinegar and one teaspoon salt; 
cook. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Rhubarb Sauce. — Make a syrup of sugar and 
water, as rich or as thin as you please, only it must 
hesyrujy. Skim. Cut the rhubarb into inch pieces 
without peeling, add to the syrup and stew until 
tender. Beware of adding lemon, ginger, eggs, 
or butter to qualify the flavor of pieplant. 

Salad Dressing. — Beat two eggs with a teaspoon 
of mixed mustard, four teaspoons of melted butter 
or salad oil; add, by degrees, two teaspoons of salt, 
two heaping teaspoons of sugar, one half teacup 
of vinegar, mix well, set on the stove till it thick- 
ens. Be sure not to let it boil. When cool stir in two 



52 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

teaspoons of rich cream. Set it away to get quite 
cold; pour this dressing over the salad just before 
sending to the table. 

Foam Sauce. — One teacup of butter, two and a 
half teacups of sugar, two large tablespoons of 
flour; beat all to a cream, then pour in one half 
pint boiling water; boil ten minutes; beat the 
white of an egg to a stiff froth and stir in just 
before taking off the stove. 

Salad Dressing. Rub tlie yolks of four hard 
boiled eggs to a smooth paste, then add two table- 
spoons of melted butter, one teaspoon of salt, one 
tablespoon of white sugar, pinch of pepper, one 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce and one cup of 
vinegar. Mix all carefully and pour over. 

Sauce for Cake or Pudding. — One pint of water, 
sweeten to taste ; a lump of butter size of an egg, a 
dozen cloves, teaspoon of vanilla extract; put on 
the fire to boil, and, when boiling, stir in a heaping 
teaspoon of corn starch, which has been previously 
mixed with cold water. 

MRS. w. w. B . 

Chicken Salad. — Take a fine bunch of white 
celery, four or five heads, scrape and wash clean; 
reserve the green leaves, shred the white part like 
straw^s and lay in a glass dish in the form of a nest. 
Mince all the white meat, without skin, and put it 
into the nest. Make a salad dressing thus : rub the 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs to a smooth paste 
with a dessert spoon of salad oil or melted butter; 



SAUCES, SALADS AND PICKLES. 53 

add to it a teaspoon of wliite sugar and a pinch of 
salt, and put to it gradually a cup of strong vinegar. 
Make a wreath of the delicate green leaves of the 
celerj^, around the edge of the nest, between it and 
the chicken — pour the dressing over the chicken 
when ready to serve: if poured over too soon it 
will discolor the celery. White heart lettuce can 
be used for the nest. 

Chicken Salad, No. 2. — Take one chicken, stew 
it, but not too tend'er; when cold cut it into small 
pieces size of a pea; take nice crisp celery, put it 
in water for a while ; cut it in little pieces; boil a 
few eggs hard; put the yolks in a bowl and stir 
witli two tablespoons of dry mustard; cut the 
whites fine; take a handful of capers, some pep- 
per, salt, vinegar and salad oil, or melted butter, 
and a little water. Mix well, garnish with celery 
and hard boiled eggs. Excellent. 



MRS. s. H- 



Chicken Salad, No. 3. — One boiled chicken, one 
half cup melted butter, five hard boiled eggs, (yolks) 
one half pint vinegar, one teaspoon dry mustard, 
one half teaspoon of red pepper, one teaspoon of 
salt, two heads of celery and a pint of chopped cab- 



bage. 



MRS. A. B. R- 



Chicken Salad, No. 4. — Two large chickens, 
eight heads celery, ten eggs, one teacup of olive oil 
or melted butter, one tablespoon of mustard, one 
teaspoon cayenne pepper, one teacup of vinegar, 



64 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

and salt to taste. Mash the yolks thoroughly with 
the oil, or butter and add salt, pepper and vinegar. 
Boil the chickens until the bones can be taken out. 
When cold pick to pieces ; chop the celery, (part 
cabbage is better,) mix well, stir lightly with a 
silver fork. Pour the mixture over when ready 
for use — not before. 

MRS. GEO. L . 

Mayonnaise Sauce. — Put the beaten yolks of 
eight fresh eggs in a salad bowl and add white 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg and a teaspoon of salt. 
Then pour slowly and steadily one and a half 
pints of best olive oil into the bowl, stirring all 
the time ; as the parts become thick, add, a teaspoon- 
ful at a time, enough of good vinegar to reduce to 
the proper consistency. The salads upon which this 
sauce may be used can be garnished with slices of 
hard boiled eggs. 

Wine Sauce. — One fourth pound butter, beaten 
to a cream with one fourth pound sugar. Boil one 
gill of wine or brandy and half a gill of water 
mixed ; pour over the sugar and butter. Send to 
the table immediately. 

Celery Sauce. — Chop fine one head of celery, 
put it into a sauce pan with a pint of water, a little 
salt, and a few peppercorns. Boil it well. Braid a 
tablespoon of flour with two ounces of butter ; stir it 
in with a half cup of cream or milk, add the season- 
ing, and boil up well. This is nice with boiled 
fowl or turkey. 



SAUCES, SALADS AND PICKLES. 55 

Bread Sauce for Birds. — A very small cup of 
chopped onions boiled in water till quite soft, and 
the water strained otf. Boil one pint of milk, pour 
it over a cup of bread crumbs, two ounces of butter, 
a little salt, pepper and mace; stir in the onion, 
boil once and serve hot. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. — Two ounces of butter 
beaten smooth, one tablespoonful of flour, one tea- 
cup of boiling water; mix all together, set over 
the fire and stir constantly until it boils; add salt, 
pepper and hard boiled egg chopped fine; a half 
pint of oysters may be added instead of egg, for 
boiled fowl. 

Mustard. — One cup of vinegar, two tablespoons 
of sugar, one tablespoon of butter, half a table- 
spoon of celery seed. Mix well, let it come to a 
good boil, then stir in two tablespoons of mustard. 

To MIX Mustard. — Pour enough boiling water 
on the mustard to scald it thoroughly and form a 
thick paste ; add a pinch of salt, and thin to prop- 
er consistency with good vinegar. Try it. 

MKS. c. w. L . 

Veal Salad. — Boil veal till very tender, chop 
^ne and stir into it a nice salad dressing ; put it in a 
shallow dish and garnish with slices of lemon and 
celery. A little chopped cabbage or lettuce may 
be added, if desired. Boiled ham, chopped and sea- 
soned, and served in the same manner, is a very 
nice dish. 



56 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Potato Salad. — Select new potatoes, or old ones 
that are not very meal}^; boil them and cut into 
small pieces; while warm season with plenty of 
butter, salt, pepper, a little cho[)ped onion and vine- 
gar; set away to get cold for supper. Cold beans, 
peas, beets etc., left from dinner are very nice pre- 
pared in this way for supper. 

Mayonnaise Sauce, No. 2. — Yolks of two raw 
eggs (not a particle of the whites, else your sauce 
will curdle) one and a half mustard spoonfuls of 
mixed mustard beaten together; add very slowly 
the best salad oil, stirring constantly, until you can 
reverse the dish without spilling; then add one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, caj-enne and black pep- 
per to taste, and a half teaspoonful of salt; stir 
briskly until quite light colored, and serve on lob- 
ster, lettuce or fish. 

Horseradish Sauce. — Two teaspoonfuls of made 
mustard, two of white sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
salt and a gill of vinegar ; mix and pour over grat- 
ed horse radish. 

Celery Flavoring — Soak for two weeks half an 
ounce of celery seed in a pint of brandy. A few 
drops of this will flavor a pint of soup nearly as 
well as if a head of celery was stewed in it. 

Yanilla Extract. — One gallon proof spirits 
(not alcohol) to one pound vanilla beans; crush 
the beans in a mortar, and put in the spirits; let 
it stand five or six weeks, and strain off as wanted. 



SAUCES, SALADS AND PICKLES. 57 

Lemon Extract. — One pint of alcohol to two oun- 
ces of oil of lemon ; let it stand five or six weeks, 
shaking occasionally'. 

Cherry or Currant Sauce. — Four pounds of 
cherries or currants, two pounds of sugar, one cup 
of vinegar, half an ounce of cinnamon, or other 
spices if preferred ; cook slowly about an hour. 

MRS. c. w. L . 

Gooseberry Catsup. — Eight pounds of ripe or 
partially ripe fruit, four pounds brown sugar, one 
pint of good vinegar, two ounces each of fine cloves 
and cinnamon tied in a bas;. Boil the berries and 
sugar for three or four hours, then add the spice, 
boil a little longer, put in a jar and cover well. 
Will keep two years by occasionally scalding and 
adding a little vinegar and spice. 

Tomato Catsup. — Splendid. Take ripe toma- 
toes, and, having quartered them, let them stand in 
a stone jar over night; in the morning, throw away 
the water produced. Rub them through a sieve, 
and to every pint of tomatoes add a pint of 
strong vinegar, an ounce of onions sliced tine, 
one fourth of an ounce of ground black pepper; 
ginger, cloves, and allspice, half a drachm each; 
half an ounce of salt. Boil the whole together, 
until each ino^redient is tender, then rub throuo:h a 
sieve with a wooden spoon, and to each pint add 
the juice of two lemons. Boil until it is of the 
thickness of cream. Bottled and sealed it will 
keep for years. MRS. c. w. l . 



58 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Kecipe for one gallon of Tomato catsup. Eight pints 
tomatoes, eight pints vinegar, half pound onions, two 
ounces ground pepper, one fourth ounce each of all- 
spice, cloves, ginger and cinnamon and four ounces salt. 

MRS. c. w. L . 

Sliced Tomato Pickle. — Take one gallon of 
sliced tomatoes that are just turning white, scald them 
in salt water, until a little tender ; take one teaspoon 
of pepper, same each of mace, cloves, mustard and 
cinnamon, four teaspoons of white mustard, one pod 
green pepper, four onions chopped fine, and half a pint 
grated horse-radish. Mix all together, add one pound 
of sugar, and cover with vinegar. 

EiPE Tomato Pickles. — One peck of ripe to- 
matoes ; prick them with a large needle, lay them in 
strong salt and water eight days. Then take them 
out of the brine and lay them in vinegar and water, 
for twenty-four hours. Scald a dozen small onions in 
vinegar and stand the whole away to get cold. Drain 
the tomatoes, add them to the cold onions and vine- 
gar with a wine-glassful of mustard-seed and half an 
ounce of cloves. 

Cucumber Pickles. — One gallon of vinegar, a small 
teacup of salt, six red peppers, a tablespoon ful of 
celery seed, and small pieces of alum and horse-radish. 
Wash and wipe the cucumbers, fill the jars, i)ut a 
weight on top, tie up close, and in a few days they 
will be ready for use. 

Cucumber Pickles, No. 2. — Wash your cucumbers 
with care, place them in iars and make a weak brine, 



SAUCES, SALADS AND PICKLES. 59 

(a handful of salt to a gallon and a half of water). 
When scalding hot pour over the cucumhers and 
cover; repeat this process three morninsjs in success- 
ion, taking care to skim thoroughly. On the fourth 
day have ready a porcelain kettle of vinegar to which 
has been added a lump of alum, size of a walnut. 
When scalding hot put in as many pickles as the 
vinegar will cover, do not let theni boil, but skim 
off as soon as scalded through, and replace them 
with others, adding each time a small piece of alum. 
When through with all the pickles, throw out this 
vinegar and replace with good cider vinegar; add 
spices, mustard-seed, and red peppers. Place them 
in stone jars ; and over them pour the hot spiced 
vinegar ; seal and put away the jars not needed for 
immediate use. Honse-radish root cut lengthwise 
and placed on top of pickles will impart a pleasant 
taste and also prevent mold. 

Tomato Catsup — Ripe. — Boil one peck of ripe to- 
matoes, fifteen minutes, without removing their skins, 
and strain through a sieve. Put into a little bag one 
teaspoonful of cloves, (whole) one tablespoon each of 
ground cinnamon, allspice and black pepper, and put 
these with a pint of good vinegar into the strained to- 
matoes, and boil the whole carefully from three to five 
hours. When sufficiently boiled add one tablespoon 
ground mustard, one teaspoon black and same of red 
pepper. 

Tomato Pickles. — Thirty-six green tomatoes, ten 
green peppers, {without the seeds) ten large onions, 
eight cups vinegar, six tablespoons of sugar, three 



60 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

tablespoons of salt, celery and mustard-seed to taste ; 
scald welt together. 

Cucumber Catsup. — One dozen large cucumbers, 
five large onions; grate each separately, and soak in salt 
water one hour, then squeeze the juice out; with the 
pulp put red pepper and spices to taste ; add suffi- 
cient vinegar to thin properly. 

MRS. J. H. M . 

Chili Sauce. — One large onion, two red peppers, 
six large tomatoes, all chopped fine, one tablespoon 
of mustard, one each of cinnamon, cloves, and salt ; 
two tablespoons of brown sugar and two teacups of vin- 
egar. Boil slowly two hours. This is very nice for 
cold meats. 

MRS. J. H. M . 

Green Tomato Pickles. — Slice, salt and let stand 
over night, two gallons of green tomatoes; then 
squeeze out, and add twelve onions chopped fine, two 
quarts vinegar, two heads cabbage chopped fine, one 
quart sugar, horseradish chopped or scraped, one 
tablespoonful cloves and one of allspice, two table- 
spoons of mustard and two of black pepper. Mix all 
well and boi] one hour; can it, and it will keep as long 
as you wish. 

MRS. J. H. M . 

Mangoes. — To stuff one dozen mangoes, take 
one cup each of white and black mustard seed, one 
handful of horse radish, one teaspoonful each of cloves, 
mace, cinnamon, black pepper, celery seed, and one 
cup of sugar ; mince a small head of cabbage fine, 



SAUCES, SALADS AND PICKLES. 61 

pour hot vinegar over it and let it stand half an hour. 
Then drain off, and when cold put the mixture 
together, adding small beans and cucumbers, and fill 
the mangoes. Place them in the kettle with steam 
up, and scald gently with the vinegar. 

C how-Chow. — Twenty-four large green tomatoes, 
eight onions and twelve (seedless) peppers; chop these 
fine, then add four tablespoons of salt, eight table- 
spoons of sugar, four teaspoons each of cloves, cin- 
namon, and ginger and eight teacups of vinegar. Boil 
all together slowly for two hours. 

Chili Sauce. — One peck of ripe tomatoes chopped 
fine; strain the water off; one cup of chopped onions, 
one cup of sugar, one cup of mustard seed, one cup of 
grated horseradish, a fourthof a cup of salt, two peppers 
chopped fine, one teaspoon each of cloves, mace and 
cinnamon, two tablespoons of celery seed, three pints of 
vinegar. Mix together and it is done; bottle for use. 

Ripe Tomato Pickles — Sour. — One pound of 
brown sugar to a four gallon jar of tomatoes; peel the 
tomatoes, puncture with a fork, and put in layers in 
the jar; sprinkling a little sugar over each layer. Put 
a light weight on top and keep in a moderately warm 
place for a few weeks. They make their own vinegar, 
and are sharp pickles. Brown sugar is best. 

English Mixed Pickles. — One half peck of small 
green tomatoes, three dozens small cucumbers, two 
heads of cauliflower, a half peck of small, tender 
beans, (string,) six bunches of celery, six green pep- 
pers, and a quart of small white onions; chop the 



62 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

vegetables quite fine, sprinkle with salt and let stand 
over night. To six or seven quarts of vinegar add 
one ounce each of ground cloves, allspice and pepper, 
two ounces of turmeric and a fourth pound of mus- 
tard seed. Let the vinegar and spice come to a boil, 
put in the vegetables and scald until tender and a 
little yellow. 

Ripe Tomato Catsup. — Pour boiling water on a 
peck of very ripe red tomatoes, to slip the skins off. 
Remove all bad spots or green lumps from about the 
stem end. Boil slowly for three hours in a porcelain 
vessel, stirring often from the bottom. Then add 
four tablespoons of ground black pepper, three heap- 
ing tablespoons of good mustard, six medium sized 
red peppers chopped, and half a tablespoonful of 
cloves, and the same of allspice thoroughly stewed in 
the best cider vinegar. Simmer the whole, half 
an hour, and strain through a common flour sieve; 
bottle hot and seal air tight. This makes one gallon 
of catsup. 

Green Tomato Soy. — To one peck of green 
tomatoes add three large onions and six good green 
peppers. Slice all together, leaving out the blossom 
ends of the tomatoes and the seeds of the peppers. 
Put all together into three pints cider vinegar and 
two pints water. Let it boil five minutes. Then 
strain out the tomatoes, etc., and throw the vinegar 
away; now take two quarts fresh vinegar, add two 
cups brown sugar, one cup mustard, made smooth 
with cold water, one tablespoon each of ground cin- 
namon, cloves and allspice, and three tablespoons of 



SAUCES, SALADS AND PICKLES. 63 

salt. Let this boil up, and pour it over the tomatoes. 
Put in covered stone jars, and it will be ready for use 
wheti cold. 

Chow-Chow — Warranted to be good. One peck 
of green tomatoes peeled, one large head of cabbage, 
half a dozen good sized onions, chop fine and salt 
separately at night. In the morning drain off the 
water from the vegetables, and mix them thoroughly, 
adding six green and two ripe peppers. Take as much 
vinegar as will cover them. Let it come to a boil. 
Put the vegetables in the vinegar and let them scald 
a few minutes, then take them out and put them in 
a jar, adding a little black pepper, cinnamon, and 
cloves. Throw away half the vinegar used and add 
new vinegar and a pint of sugar to it. When boil- 
ing hot pour it over the vegetables. 

Apple Sauce. Fill a quart bowl with alternate 
layers of sliced apples and sugar; add half a cup of 
water, and cover with a saucer held down with a 
weight. Bake slowly three hours, and let it stand 
till cold. Or : pare and core sweet apples, place them 
in a porcelain kettle, with a little water and sugar, 
steam or stew them slowly, by covering tightly; 
when soft enough to be penetrated by a straw, re- 
move the apples carefully, one by one, to a glass dish; 
add a cap of white sugar to the syrup in the kettle, 
boil it a few minutes, then pour it over the apples. 
Beat two or three whites of eggs to a stiff froth, place 
the apples in pyramid form, pour the whites over 
them and, lastly, sprinkle with finely sliced lemon peel. 



^m^j fmi^?>- 



^OR Jellies. — Take six pounds of dried apples 
and six gallons of cold water and let them 
soak twelve hours, then strain through a flannel bag ; 
add to each pint of the juice one pound of grape 
sugar, and one ounce of Cooper's sheet gelatine ; 
boil twenty-five minutes and flavor to taste. 

Apple Butter. — Take four pounds of dried apples, 
two pounds of dried pumpkin ; soak them twelve 
hours, then add one gallon of gluco or grape sugar ; 
one quart of boiled cider, one quart of golden syrup, six 
pounds of New Orlean's sugar, one fourth of a pound 
of Cooper's gelatine, a little spice mixed to suit the 
taste. Boil gently for one hour, stirring all the time. 

Apple Butter, No. 2. — Nine gallons of fresh cider 
boiled down to six gallons ; ten gallons of apples, pared 
and cored ; ten lbs. of sugar, cinnamon to suit the 
taste. Add sugar and cinnamon just half an hour 
before taking up. Boil all, three or four hours, stir- 
ring all the time. MRS. geo. l . 

Spiced fruit. — Seven pounds of fruit, three pounds 
of sugar, one pint of vinegar, allspice, cloves and stick 
cinnamon. Boil the syrup three mornings and pour 
it over the fruit ; the third morning cook the fruit 
until tender. mrs. geo. l . 



SWEET PICKLES. 65 

Any kind of spiced fruit syrup, after the fruit is 
all used out, is better to put in mince meat than boil- 
ed cider, therefore it should be saved for that pur- 
pose. MRS. L . 

Spiced Peaches. — One peck of peaches, two quarts 
of vinegar, four pounds of sugar, three nutmegs, one 
tablespoonful each of cloves and cinnamon ; after 
paring the peaches, place in a jar, strewing spices 
through them. Boil vinegar and sugar together, and 
pour over them, three days in succession ; the fourth 
day boil all together for twenty minutes. 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickles. — Take a quart 
of vinegar and six pounds of sugar, with one ounce 
each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, and boil 
them together. Then take medium sized tomatoes, 
have them whole and green, stick cloves around in 
them and boil them in the syrup until tender. Put 
them into a jar and cover them with the syrup. 

Spiced Peaches, No. 2. — One Peck of fruit, five 
pounds of sugar, one pint of cider- vinegar ; tie in a thin 
muslin bag one ounce each of cinnamon, cloves and 
whole spice; make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar, 
add the fruit and spice ; boil half an hour, and seal 
while hot. 

Muskmelon PiiESERVES. — Take a ripe muskmelon, 
remove the seeds, peel and cut in pieces ; put into 
a stone jar and cover with scalding vinegar; let them 
stand until next day, when pour off the vinegar, heat 
it and pour it on them again ; do the same every day 
until the fourth day. Weigh the melon and to 
every five pounds add three pounds of sugar, one 



66 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

quart of the vinegar, and spice to suit ; put all to- 
gether and simmer till tender. The second day after 
pour off the syrup and boil down until there will be 
just enough to cover the melon. Well worth the 
trouble. 

Quinces, Preserved whole. — Pare and put 
them into a saucepan with the parings at the top; 
fill with hard water, cover close and set over a gen- 
tle fire until they turn a reddish brown. Let them 
stand till cold, put them into a clear, thick syrup, 
boil them for a few minutes, set them to one side till 
quite cold, boil them again in the same manner ; the 
next day boil them until quite clear. If the syrup 
is not thick enough, boil more ; when cold put bran- 
died paper over the fruit. The quinces may be quar- 
tered or halved. 

Preserved Pears. — Peel, core and cut in halves; 
weigh one pound of fruit to one pound of sugar. 
Make a syrup of the sugar, put in some preserved 
ginger and sliced lemons to flavor it ; boil the pears 
until quite soft, take out into a dish to cool, and boil 
the syrup ten or fifteen minutes longer. 

Fresh Peaches. — Remove the skins by pouring 
boiling water on them, a few at a time, and you can 
peel them like potatoes ; weigh them and to each 
pound of fruit allow a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
and make a clear syrup, allowing one pound of sugar 
to one quart of water ; put the peaches hot into the 
jars and fill the jars with hot syrup. If you have 
not enough syrup add boiling water. The syrup the 
peaches are boiled in can be used for anything else. 



SWEET PICKLES. 67 

Siberian Crab-apple Preserves. — Wipe them, 
leave the stems on, weigh, and allow one pound of 
fruit to one pound of sugar ; prick the apples with a 
large needle, which will prevent the skins from crack- 
ing ; make a syrup of sugar; when clear put in the 
apples and boil twenty minutes; take them out and 
lay on a dish to co.)l; put them into jars and strain 
the syrup over them. 

Citron Melon Preserves. — Peel the melon, 
take out the inside, and cut it in small pieces, two 
inches long and one inch wide ; put a piece of alum 
into the water, and boil until the melons are quite ten- 
der; then weigh, allowing one pound of sugar to one 
pound of fruit ; drain the meh)n into a dish, sprinkle 
the sugar over it and between the pieces, and let it 
stand over night. The next day pour off the syrup, 
cut up two lemons into small pieces, removing the 
seeds, and put them and some preserved ginger into it, 
and boil till clear ; then put the melon in and boil ten 
or fifteen minutes, take it out on a dish to cool, put 
into jars and pour the syrup over it. Seal tight. 

To Spice Fruit. — For seven pounds of fruit take 
four pounds of good sugar, one quart of good cider 
vinegar, cinnamon and cloves tied in a bag. 

MRS. s. H . 

Brandy Peaches. — To eight pounds of fruit take 
four pounds of sugar; make a syrup of the sugar, and 
to every two pints of syrup add one and a half pints 
of good brandy; cook the peaches until they are heat- 
ed through ; then pour on the syrup and seal air 
tight. MRS. s. H . 



68 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Spiced Grapes. — One and a half pounds of sugar, 
one quart of vinegar, cinnamon and cloves to taste; 
let it come to a boil ; skim it well; put the grapes into 
a stone jar in bunches; pour the syrup on hot; repeat 
three or four times. 

An excellent rule for canning the larger fruits, 
peaches, pears &c., is to place them in a steamer 
over a kettle of boiling water, first laying a cloth in 
the bottom of the steamer ; fill this with the fruit 
and cover tightly ; let them steam for fifteen min- 
utes, or until they can be easily pierced with a fork. 
Make a syrup of the right consistency ; as the fruit 
is steamed, drop each for a moment into the syrup; 
then place in the cans, having each half full of 
fruit; then fill up with the hot fruit syrup; then 
cover and seal. 

Lemon Butter. — One and a half cups of white 
sugar, whites of three eggs, yolk of one egg, grated 
rind and juice of one and a half lemons ; cook, over 
a slow fire, twenty minutes, stirring all the time. 

Grape Butter. — Pick the grapes from, the stems, 
wash and put them in a kettle with a very little 
water, as there is a great deal of juice in them ; boil 
till tender, then take off and strain through a colan- 
der ; put a pound of sugar to a quart of juice, boil, 
and stir well until done; no spices required. Grapes 
that fail to ri[)en may be profitably used in this way. 

Preserved Peaches. — Select peaches of fine 
quality and firm, pare them and place them in a 
steamer over boiling water and cover tightly; an 



SWEET PICKLES. 69 

earthen plate placed in the steamer under the fruit 
will preserve the juices, which, afterwards, may be 
strained and added to the syrup ; let thein steam for 
fifteen minutes or until they can be easily pierced 
with a fork. Make a syrup of the best sugar, and, 
as the fruit is steamed, drop each peach into the syr- 
up for a few seconds then take it out and place in the 
cans; when the cans are full pour over them the hot 
syrup and seal immediately. The syrup should be 
well skimmed before pouring over the fruit ; use half 
or quarter of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit 
in canning. This rule is excellent for all the l.irge 
fruits, as pears, quinces, apples &c. 

Canned Cherries — Stone the fruit, weigh it?, and 
to one pound of fruit allow half a pound of best sug- 
ar; after putting the fruit into the syrup, let it scald 
(not boil hard) for ten or fifteen minutes, and then can 
and seal. A few of the cherry stones put in a mus- 
lin bag and put into the syrup to scald with the fruit 
imparts a fine flavor ; they should not be put in the 
jars with the fruit. This method is excellent for use 
with all the small fruits, as strawberries, raspberries 
and plums. 

Currant Jelly. — The currants should be ripe 
and freshly picked ; after the stones are removed 
place them in a kettle without any water and let them 
stew gently; remove from the fire when they begin to 
turn white, and press them through a strainer cloth 
to extract the juice ; to each pint of juice take one 
pound of white sugar ivhich has been previously 
heated in the oven ; then put over the fire and boil 



70 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

fifteen minutes after the sugar has been added; dip it 
slowly into the jelly glasses, having a wet cloth 
wrapped around each one to prevent its cracking. 
Some think a quart of raspberries to a peck of cur- 
rants is an improvement. 

Grape Jelly. — Strip from their stems some ripe 
grapes, and stir with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire 
until all have burst and the juice flows freely from 
them ; strain through a jelly bag; to every pint of 
juice put fourteen ounces of sugar ; put the juice on 
to boil fifteen minutes, then add the sugar and boil 
fifteen minutes longer, keeping it constantly well 
stirred and skimmed. 

Crab Apple Jelly. — Put the apples into a kettle 
with just enough water to cover them ; let them boil 
until they are soft, mash them up and strain through 
a jelly bag, adding one pound of sugar to one pint of 
juice ; proceed as with other jellies. 

Quince Jelly. — Take the parings and cores of 
quinces cover them with water and let them boil two 
hours ; strain, and add one pint of juice to one pound 
of sugar; proceed as usual 

Apple Jelly. — Boil the apples in a little water, 
strain through a sieve, and put one pint of juice to 
one pound of sugar; add the juice of two lemons. 

Strawberry, Blackberry or Raspberry Jam — 
Mash the berries with a wooden spoon, put them in- 
to the preserving kettle, and let them cook ten min- 
utes ; then add one and a half pounds of sugar to 
one quart of raw berries 



SWEET PICKLES. 71 

Cider Jelly. — One and a half ounces of gelatine, 
the grated rind of one lemon and the juice of three ; 
add one pint of cold water and let it stand one hour; 
then add two and a half pounds of loaf sugar, three 
pints of hoiling water and one pint of cider. Put 
into moulds and set in a cool place. 

Wine Jelly. — On one box of Coxe's gelatine 
pour a pint of cold water and let it stand ten min- 
utes ; then pour on four pints of boiling water and 
one pint of wine, and add two pounds of sugar, the 
juice of three lemons and the grated rind of one. 
Strain immediately through a jelly bag and let it 
stand to cool. 

MRS. w. s. H . 

Orange or Lemon Gelatine. — Half a box of 
gelatine dissolved in half a pint of cold water, juice 
of six and grated rind of one orange, one and a half 
pints of boiling water and half a cup of sugar. For 
lemon gelatine after dissolving add one and a half 
pints of boiling water, one cup of sugar, the juice of 
three and the rind of one lemon, strain, and set to 
cool. MRS. w. H . 

Apple Jelly for Cake. — One large or two small 
apples grated, the rind and juice of one lemon and 
one cup of sugar ; boil three minutes. 

Blackberry Cordial. — Heat half a bushel of 
berries, and express the juice, add two ounces each 
of allspice, cinnamon and cloves ; allow one pound 
of sugar to a pint of juice ; boil thoroughly, and, 
when cool, add half a gallon of best brandy. 



72 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Blackberry Cordial, No. 2 — To every quart of 
juice put one pound of white sugar, half an ounce 
each of grated nutmeg and cinnamon, and quarter of 
an ounce each of allspice and cloves, and add one pint 
of best brandy ; tie the spices in a thin muslin bag; 
boil juice, sugar and spices together for fifteen min- 
utes, skim well, add the brandy and set aside to cool 
in a closely covered vessel. When perfectly cold take 
out the spices, strain and bottle, sealing the corks. 

Grape Wine. To each quart of grape juice, put 
two quarts of water and three pounds of sugar. 
Soak the skins of the grapes in the water. 

Currant Wine.— Mash and squeeze the currants 
through a strong cloth. To every two quarts of juice 
add one quart of water and two pounds loaf sugar. 
Stir this well and set it away in large stone jars for 
two or three weeks ; there will be a thick scum ; take 
this all off and add to every gallon a pint of best 
brandy or pure spirits. Put it into a demijohn and 
stop it tight. 

Quince Cordial, — Pare and core the quinces, then 
grate them; boil them, as well as the parings and cores. 
Strain, and to two quarts of juice add one pound 
sugar, one pint brandy, and spices to suit the taste. 

Cherry Bounce — Stone the cherries and put them 
into a jar; place this jar in a pot of boiling water. Set 
the pot on the fire and let the water boil around the jar 
till all the juice is extracted. Strain, and to one gallon 
of juice add four pounds of su<!,ar, boil and skim, add 
whole spice, one quart of brandy and one quart of rum. 



SWEET PICKLES. 73 

Sweet Champagne Cider.— Let the cider fer- 
ment for two or tliree weeks ; when it is lively add to 
each gallon one to two pounds sugar, according to the 
tartness of the cider. Let it work until it has the 
taste you wish. Then mix for each gallon of cider 
one fourth ounce of sulphite of lime into one quart 
of cider, and return it to the rest. In three days it 
will be clear and ready for you to bottle what will be 
a sweet, sparkling cider. 

Cheap Wine for Cooking.— Take new cider 
from the press, mix as much honey with it as will 
support an egg ; boil it gently fifteen minutes but not 
in iron, brass nor copper. Skim well and when cool 
put it into a cask. In the following March it will be 
ready to bottle — in six weeks ready to drink. 



nmv- 






?00D Hop Yeast.— Take one handful of hops and 
boil them a minute in a quart of water; then 
pour the water over six spoonfuls of flour and stir well; 
let it cool ; then stir in a teacupful of good soaked 
yeast and let it rise well; then stir in corn meal until 
stiff enough to cut. Keep out in the wind on plates 
or a clean board till dry. MRS. s . 

Dried Yeast. Tin cup of milk-warm water, two 
cups of fresh butter-milk, two fablespoons of yeast; 
mix in enough meal to make a thick batter, let it 
rise in a warm place ; then add enough meal to 
make a stiff dough ; roll into thin cakes to dry. Use 
one tablespoon of dried yeast to one quart of flour. 
Make up with milk- warm water into loaves of bread, 
instead of sponge ; raise and bake. 

MRS. J. p . 

Salt Kising Yeast. — The night before baking 
scald one pint of meal, stirring and adding water un- 
til it makes a thick gruel; add one tablespoon of sugar, 
and one teaspoon of salt; keep in a warm place until 
morning. Then put in one and a half pints of luke 
warm water, and a small half teaspooiiful of soda; 



BREAD. 75 

stir in flour enough to make a thick batter; keep in a 
warm place, raise and knead as in other yeast. 

MRS. J. p . 

Salt Rising Yeast, No. 2. — One tablespoon flour, 
two tablespoons of corn meal; stir to a thick mush 
with boiling water, cover and set in a warm place 
over night. In the morning add to one pint of new 
milk enough boiling water to scald it slightly ; then 
pour it over the mush of the previous night ; add 
enough flour to make a thick batter ; add a pinch of 
salt, and the same of sugar. After the sponge is 
very light and over-flowing mix the dough, adding 
a little warm water if needed, and work very tlior- 
oughly before setting to rise. 

MRS. G. L . 

Excellent Light Bread. — Soak two table- 
spoonfuls of dry hop yeast (or half a cake compressed 
yeast,) for an hour, in enough warm water to cover it. 
Then, with flour and a little additional warm water, 
make about a quart of batter. Let it rise over night; 
in the summer set it in a cool place, in the winter, 
near the fire. In the morning sift about as much 
flour as the batter and a pint of warm water will 
mix, add salt, and if desirable a little lard; knead 
until perfectly smooth. In fifteen or tioenty minutes 
knead again, diligently. Let it rise until quite light, 
then knead again well) let it stand a few minutes only^ 
then knead again into small loaves. Do not grease 
the pan, but aUvays grease each loaf well with sweet 
lard or butter. Bake in a slow oven; wdien thor- 
oughly done, take out the pan, grease the loaves 



76 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

over the top with a little butter, cover them ivMle in 
the pan^ with a piece of thick paper. After remain- 
ing in the pan fifteen minutes, take tlie loaves out and 
let them remain a few minutes, right side up. When 
perfectly cold put awa}- in a tin box, or as convenient. 
For light rolls — take off a piece of dough after the 
second kneading, add a little more lard, and bake as 
directed for the loaves. 

MRS. JUDGE T . 

Vienna Kolls. — To one quart of flour add two 
teaspoons of best baking powder; sift thoroughly, add 
a little salt, and rub a tablespoonful of lard or butter 
through the flour; use enough sweet milk to make a 
soft dough; roll out, and cut with a round cutter; 
fold over like a turn-over, and wet the edges with 
milk, to make them adhere; wash over with milk to 
give them a gloss. Place in a pan so that they will 
not touch; bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

MRS. H. M . 

Parker House Rolls. — Two quarts of flour, one 
tablespoon of lard, one teaspoon of salt; rub well 
together; scald one pint of milk; when cool, mix with 
the milk half a teacup of hop yeast and half a cup of 
white sugar; make a hole in the flour and pour in 
the mixture; stir it around with enough of the flour 
to make a sponge; cover it and set it in a warm place 
to rise; when light, mould into rather a stiff" dough; 
let it rise asrain; roll it out an inch thick, cut it into 
strips an inch wide and three inches long and lay them 
on buttered tins; when light, bake in a quick oven. 



BREAD. 77 

Soda Biscuits. — One quart of flour, one heaping 
tablespoon of lard, one pint of milk (nearly), one 
teaspoon of soda, scraped off with a knife, two small 
teaspoons of cream of tartar; sift soda and cream of 
tartar thoroughly in the flour, then rub in the lard 
and add a little salt. Pour in enough milk to make a 
soft dough and mix quickly: roll out half an inch 
thick, and bake in a quick oven. 

Steamed Brown Bread. — Three teacups Graham 
flour, four teacups of corn meal, one cup of molasses, 
one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of salt, one quart 
of buttermilk, one tablespoon of brown sugar; steam 
six hours. 

Brown Bread. — Two coffee cups of Indian meal, 
one cup of molasses, one quart sweet milk, one 
teaspoon of salt, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
two eggs; stir with flour about as stiff as for cake, 
and bake in a pudding dish; or it can be steamed two 
or three hours, and then set in the oven to brown. 

Graham Bread. — It is a good plan to take a cer- 
tain quantity of the risen sponge on baking day and 
set it aside for brown bread. Put into a pan two 
parts Graham flourj and one part white flour, and to 
every quart of this add a handful of Indian meal and 
a teaspoon of salt : wet this up with the sponge, and, 
for a fair sized loaf, add one half cup molasses. The 
dough should be very soft and handled as little as pos- 
sible; add warm water, if you have not enough sponge 
to make it of the proper consistency. Bake slowly. 
Give it time to rise and to bake. Do not cut while 
hot. Most persons prefer not to sift brown flour. 



78 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cream Biscuits. — Three heaping teaspoons of 
baking powder in a quart of flour which has been 
sifted three times, a lump of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, a pinch of salt, and one half pint of cream. 
Mix daintily with tips of fingers. Koll out thin, and 
bake a delicate brown. 

Flannel Rolls. — One cup uf sweet milk, whites 
of two eggs, two thirds of a cup of butter, flour to 
make a thick batter, two tablespoons of sugar and two 
teaspoons baking powder. Form into rolls, let them 
rise — then bake. 

Rusk. — Tu one tumbler of milk put one half gill 
of yeast, three eggs, one half cup of sugar, butter size 
of an egg and a little nutmeg or lemon. Melt the but- 
ter, pour it into the milk warm, add the yeast, sugar, 
the well beaten eggs, and flour enough to make a 
dough. Let it rise over night ; when very light roll 
out and put it on tins to rise again. 

BuNNS. — One quart of flour, one pint of warm milk, 
four tablespoons of butter, and one gill of yeast. Mix 
them and set it to rise three or four hours. Then 
add two beaten eggs and one fourth pound of sugar. 
Mix this into the dough and set it to rise about two 
hours. When very light make the dough into bunns, 
and set them close together to rise. When all of a 
sponge brush the top with a little milk and molasses 
mixed. Set in a quick oven and bake fifteen or 
twenty minutes. 

Luncheon Cake. — One pound of dough, two ounces 
of butter, two ounces of powdered sugar and two eggs. 
Beat all well together in a basin, using the hand in- 



BREAD. 79 

stead of an egg-beater. Set it in a plain mould to 
rise for three quarters of an hour, then bake in a 
quick oven. When eaten it should have the appear- 
ance of honeycomb. This is nice luncheon cake, and 
will make delicious toast when stale. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. — One quart of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder, a little salt, lard the 
size of an egg, and enough sweet milk to mix into a 

soft douojh. MRS. J. H. M . 



Baking Powder Biscuits, No. 2.— One quart of 
flour, sifted two or three times, two heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and one tablespoon 
of lard mixed thoroughly through the flour. Then 
pour in one half pint of cream, (or cream and water) 
do not knead much, but roll out on the board ; 
double the dough and roll again, repeating this 
once or twice. Do not touch the hands to it any 
more than necessary ; cut into biscuits ; mak^ them 
touch each other in the pan. You will have deli- 
cious biscuits with very little trouble. 

MRS. w. w. B . 

Corn bread. — One pint of sour milk, two cups of 
meal, one cup of flour, half a cup of molasses, a 
teas[)Oonful of soda and a little salt; steam two hours; 
bake one hour. mrs. m. p. j . 

Corn Bread, No. 2. — Four cups of corn meal, two 
cups of rye flour, three cups of sour milk, one cup of 
molasses, one teaspoon of soda, salt. Steam three 
hours and bake half an hour. 

Mi>s. m. p. j . 



80 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Graham Gems. — One cup Graham fioiir, one half 
cup of white flour, one tablespoon of butter, one egg, 
one tablespoon of sugar, a little salt, three large table- 
spoons of baking powder, enough milk to make a stiff 
batter; heat the tins : add the eggs last. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Cream Puffs. — Heat one fourth pound of butter; 
add one half pint of sweet milk and let it come to a 
boil; then add by degrees six ounces of flour, and stir 
it luell tvhile on the stove, until the dough looks very 
smooth and dark. Empty it into a bowl and stir in 
(without beating) five eggs; have a hot oven ; drop 
little balls into lightly greased pans and bake them; 
when they have risen high, and baked a nice brown, 
they are done: take very thick cream and whip it 
stifl', sweeten well with powdered sugar, and flavor 
with vanilla; open the pufls just a little on the side 
and fill them. mrs. s. ii— — . 

Crumb Cakes. — To one pint of sour milk put .one 
cup of bread crumbs, a little salt, two well beaten 
eggs, and flour enough to make a batter, not too stiff; 
add a small flat-teaspoonful of soda just before baking. 
Bake as buckwheat cakes. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — One quart of warm water, 
one large spoonful of Indian meal, scalded, one teaspoon 
of salt, four tablespoons of yeast and one large spoon- 
ful of molasses ; stir in enough buckwheat flour to 
make a thin batter. Let it rise over night and, in the 
morning, add a pinch of soda. They should be as thin 
as will turn over, and no more grease used than 
needed to keep them from sticking. 



BREAD. 81 

Flannel Cakes. — Mix three tablespoons of flour 
with half of a pint of cream, add two eggs, and beat 
the whole very smooth. Then add slowly one half 
pint new milk into which has been put a teaspoon of 
baking powder. Heat well together and fry in hot 
lard. Eat with pDwdered sugar mixed with grated 
nutmeg or cinnamon. 

BuEAKFAST Cakes. — •One pint of sour milk with 
one scant teaspoon of soda stirred in it until it foams 
like soda water; the well beaten yolks of two or three 
eggSj a little salt, and flour enough to make a batter, 
not too thick; lastly add the beaten whites; bake in 
plenty of hot lard, on a moderately hot griddle. 

MRS. w. w. B . 

For corn meal cakes use meal instead of flour. Do 
not use as hot a griddle as for flour cakes. 

Very Plain Corn Bread. — One pint of corn 
meal, with a little salt and a teaspoon of lard stirred 
in; wet with enough water to make a very thick bat- 
ter ; bake on a griddle. mrs. b . 

Kentucky Biscuit. — One quart of flour, two 
tablespoons of lard, one teaspoon of salt ; make up 
stiff with water and beat with a potato masher, for 
fifteen minutes. Bake in a quick oven. 

Graham G-ems, No 2. — One cup of sour milk, one 
teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of salt, half of a cup 
of molasses, Grraham flour enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter; stir hard and bake in muffin irons. 

Pop Overs. — One cup of flour, one cup of sweet 
milk, one egg, and a pinch of salt ; beat thoroughly; 
heat the pans and butter them ; fill half full with 
the batter, pmd bake in a quick oven. 



PA^^^^- 



I^OFFEE Cake. — Four eggs, two cups of brown 
^t sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of molasses, 
one cup of cold coffee, one half pound of raisins, one 
half nutmeg, two teaspoons of cloves, one teaspoon 
of soda, and four cups of flour. 

Sponge Cake. — Three eggs, one cup sugar, one 
cup of flour, two tablespoons of sweet milk, and one 
teaspoon of baking powder. 

MRS. J. H. M . 

Sponge Cake, No. 2. — Two eggs, one cup of sugar, 
five tablespoons of water, one and a half cups of 
flour, one and a half teaspoons of baking powder. 
For jelly cake, bake in layers. 

Sponge Roll, No. 3. — Three eggs, one cup of 
sugar, one half cup of sweet milk, one cup of flour, one 
and a half teaspoons of baking powder; pour it thin 
into a baking pan, bake slowly and when done spread 
jelly or jam over it, roll up and wrap it in a cloth. 

Sponge Cake, No. 4. — One coffee cup of sugar, 
same of flour, five eggs, one lemon, one teaspoon 
of baking powder or not. Nice. 

MRS. M. p. j . 



CAKES. 83 

Sponge Cake, No. 5. —Twelve eggs leaving out 
the yolks of two ; eighteen ounces of sugar, twelve 
ounces of flour, one lemon ; heat the flour. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Cream Sponge Cake, No. 6.— Six eggs, one pint 
of fl.nir and one tablespoonful extra, one half teacup 
of ice water added last; two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der. Fo7' the crea?7^— Three fourths pint of rich cream, 
two tablespoons of sugar, two teaspoons of corn 
starch; let it come to a boil ; when cold, spread be- 
tween the layers. 

MRS. c. w. L . 

Sponge Cake, No. 7. — Two eggs, thoroughly 
beaten with one cup of sugar, one third cup of boil- 
ing water ; sift two teaspoons of baking powder into 
an even teacup of sifted flour; season with lemon or 
vanilla. By the use of one more egg you can make 
any kind of layer cake, better than with the butter 
in: for this, save the two whites for the frosting, using 
two yolks and one egg for the cake. Bake in jelly 
tins. If desired sprinkle cocoanut over each layer of 
frosting ; or, for chocolate, use one half teacup Baker's 
chocolate grated and stirred into the frosting. 

Seal Brown Cake.— The whites of seven eggs, 
two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one cup of butter, 
two and a half cups of flour, one and a half cups 
of grated chocolate, two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der, one teaspoon of vanilla ; bake in jelly pans, and 
put together with chocolate paste, made as follows : 
two cups of grated chocolate, one cup of water, eight 



84 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

tablespoons of sugar, one tablespoon of butter ; 
boil to a thick paste. 

White Mountain Cake. — Whites of six eggs, 
two thirds of a cup of butter, one cup sweet milk, two 
cups of sugar, three cups of flour, two teaspoons of 
baking powder. 

Fruit Cake. — One pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar, one pound of flour, ten eggs, two pounds of cur- 
rants, two pounds of raisins, one pound of citron, one 
wineglass of brandy, two nutmegs, one large table- 
spoon of molasses, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice. 

Snow Cake. — Whites of ten eggs, one and a 
half tumblers of powdered sugar, one tumbler of 
flour, one teaspoon of cream tartar ; flavor to taste. 

Coffee Cake, No. 2. — Two teacups of sugar, one 
teacup of butter, two thirds of a cup of molasses, one 
cup of strong coffee, four eggs, four cups of flour, one 
tablespoon each of cloves and cinnamon, one nutmeg, 
one teaspoon of soda, one cup of raisins, a cup of cur- 
rants, half a cup of citron. 

Ice-cream Cake. — Take the whites of five eggs, 
one and a half cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, 
a cup of milk, one and a half teaspoons of baking po^v- 
der, three cups of flour. Separate this mixture and 
color half of it with strawberry coloring. Flavor this 
with vanilla ; the white with lemon. Put in the 
white, then the pink, and so on. Bake slowly. 

Ice-cream Cake, No. 2. — Two cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, three cups flour, a half cup of sweet 



CAKES. 85 

milk, the whites of eight eggs, two teaspoons of baking 
powder. Bake in layers. 

Cream for the above. — Two and one half caps of 
sugar, with enough water to moisten it thoronghl}' ; 
then boil. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff 
froth, and when the syrup is clear pour it on them 
hot, and stir fast ; add one teaspoon of citric acid ; 
flavor with vanilla. 

MISS M. E. c . 

CocoANUT Rose Cake. — Cream half a cup of 
butter with one and a half cups of sugar. Dissolve 
a scant teaspoon of soda in two teaspoons of boiling 
water, and add to it half a cup of thick, sweet 
cream. Whip the cream to a froth, and mix it light- 
ly with the butter and sugar. Then add two tea- 
spoons of cream tartar, sifted through two and a 
half cups of flour; Sididi finally the whites of five eggs, 
beaten to a stift* froth. Flavor with vanilla, and 
color a light pink, with cochineal or analine ; a drop 
or two will color the whole cake. 

Cocoanut Filling. — Beat the whites of two eggs 
to a stiif froth ; add one cup of powdered sugar and 
two thirds of a grated cocoanut. Put this between 
the layers and cover the top with a portion, over 
which sprinkle the balance of the cocoanut, mixed 
with a little powdered sugar. 

M. E. c . 

Almond Cake. — Three cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, the whites of twelve eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth ; five cups of flour^ three tea- 



86 ILLINOIS COOlv BOOK. 

spoons of baking powder sifted with the flour. Flavor 
with lemon. 

Icing for this dike. — The whites of four eggs beat- 
en to a stiff froth, one pound of pulverized sugar, 
half a tablespoon of cream tartar, half a tablespoon 
of corn starch and two pounds of chopped almonds 
mixed with the icing and spread between the layers. 

M. E. c . 

Fig Cake. — The whites of six eggs, two cups of 
white sugf.r, two cups of flour, one cup of corn starch, 
one cup of milk, one and a third cups of butter, one and 
a half teaspoons of baking powder; flavor to taste; 
bake in four layers. Darlc Part. — Yolks of six eggs, 
one cup of brown sugar, half a teaspoon of soda dis- 
solved in half a cup of water, half a cup of butter, 
half a nutmeg, one teaspoon of cinnamon, nearly two 
cups of flour, one and a half cups of chopped raisins, 
half a pound of figs chopped fine; mix the figs and 
raisins with the flour. Bake in three layers. Put the 
layers together with icing. 

MRS. J. H. M . 

Fig Cake, No. 2. — Make any white cake and bake 
it in five layers. Take a pound of figs, chop them fine, 
put in a pan with one cup of sugar and a pint of 
water. Let it stew slowly, on the back of the stove an 
hour and a half, stirring frequently. This should be- 
come a thick paste ; then spread it between the layers. 

MRS. c. V. J . 

White Mountain Cake, No. 2. — Three cups of 
sugar, a cup of butter, half a cup of sweet milk, the 
whites of ten eggs, three teaspoons baking powder, sift- 



CAKES. 87 

ed into four and a half cups of flour; flavor with va- 
nilla. Bake in layers. Put icing between, made of 
the whites of three eggs, and one pound of powdered 
sugar. 

White Cake, No. 1. — The whites of twelve eggs, 
three cnps of flour, two cups of sugar, a cup of but- 
ter, two teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the eggs 
and sugar together very light, and cream the flour in 
the butter. 

White Cake, No. 2. — The whites of eight eggs, well 
beaten, two teacups white sugar, two thirds cup of 
butter, three cups flour, one cup sweet milk, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, mixed with the flour; flavor. 

To make cocoanut, chocolate, or any other kind of 
cake of this, bake your cake in a mould, same as if 
you wished a plain cake of it ; when cold, turn the 
cake bottom side up and slice in layers from the bot- 
tom around the cake, then put whatever you wish be- 
tween the layers, putting your cake together as you 
cut it apart. When done ice it over and you have a 
pretty cake. 

MRS. J. H. M . 

White Cake, No. 3. — Three cups sugar, one 
cup butter, one cup sweet milk, four and three- 
fourths cups flour, six teaspoons best baking pow- 
der, the whites of twelve eggs. Flavor with lemon. 



xMRS. WM. H- 



White Cake, No. 4. — Three cups sugar, one 
cup butter, one cap sweet milk, five cups flour, 
twelve eggs, (w^iites) two teaspoons baking powder. 

MRS. s. s. L . 



S8 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cakamel Cake. — Make a cake after the above 
recipe for wlnte cake, and bake it in jelly tins. 
Caramel for filling. — One and a half tea cups of 
brown sugar, a half tea cup of sweet milk, a 
tea cup of molasses, a teaspoon of butter, a table- 
spoon of flour, two tablespoons of cold water. 
Boil this mixture and add half a teacup of Ba- 
ker's chocolate. Boil till thick as custard and add 
a piuch of soda: flavor with lemon. 

Gold Cake, No. 1. — The yolks of eight eggs, one 
and a half cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, 
half a cup of milk and water, two cups of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder. 

Silver Cake, No. 1. — The whites of eight eggs, 
two cups of powdered sugar, half a cup of butter, 
half a cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
one and a half teaspoons of baking powder. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Snow Cake, No. 1. — One and a half cups of 
sugar, one cup of flour, the whites of ten eggs, 
two teaspoons of baking powder. Flavor. 

Mrs. Connelly's Cream Cake. — Ten e£re:s, their 
weight in sugar, and one half their weight in 
flour. Beat the eggs separately. Beat the sugar 
in the yolks, then the whites, and, lastl}^ add the 
flour, a little at a time. Bake in a biscuit pan — 
split in two and spread cream between, made as 
follows : — one half pint of milk, tw^o small tea- 
spoons of corn starch, one Qgg, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla and half a cup of sugar. Heat the milk to 



CAKES. 89 

boiling and stir in the corn stivrcL, previously mix- 
ed with a little cold milk; take out a little and mix 
it gradually with the beaten egg and sugar. Return 
this to the rest of the custard, and boil, stirring con- 
stanthj, until quite thick. Let it cool before you fla- 
vor it, and then spread it between the layers. 

Cream Cake, l^o. 2 — Two eggs, one cup of su- 
gar, one cup of flour, one teaspoon of cream tartar, 
one half teaspoon of soda, in a large teaspoonful 
of milk. Flavor with lemon. Cream. — One half 
pint of milk, two tablespoons of sugar, one table- 
spoon of corn starch, one egg. Scald the milk, 
stir in the eggs and corn starcli, after the sugar 
has been put in. Bake the cake in layers and 
spread the cream between. 

MRS. w. H . 

Dolly Yard en Cake. — Two cups of sugar, one 
third cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, three 
teaspoons of baking powder, three cups of flour, 
three eggs. Bake one half of this in jelly tins. To 
the other half put one half cup of chopped raisins, 
one cup of currants, one teaspoon of molasses and 
one teaspoon of each spice, except cloves. Put 
frosting betw^een. Flavor with lemon. 

MRS. w. s. H . 

Dolly Yarden Cake, 'Eo. 2. — Dark part. One 
cup sugar, half a cup butter, half a cup syrup, 
two thirds cup sweet milk, two cups flour, yolks 
of four eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
cup chopped raisins, half a cup chopped figs, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon and half a teaspoon of cloves. 



90 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Light part. — The whites of three eggs, one cup 
of sweet milk, one and a half cups of sugar, half 
a cup of butter, two cups of flour, two teaspoons of 
baking powder and two teaspoons of vanilla; bake 
in squai'e tins, and put together in alternate layers 
with jelly between. Make a frosting for the top 
with the remaining whites and the sugar. 

Custard Cake. — One cup of flour; one cup of su- 
gar, three eggs, two tablespoons of sweet milk and 
two teaspoons of baking powder. Bake in jelly tins, 
and spread with cream made as follows: one pint 
of sweet milk, half a cup of butter, two thirds of 
a cup of sugar. When this boils, stir in two well- 
beaten eggs, two tablespoons of corn starch, pre- 
viousl}^ mixed with cold milk, and flavor with 
lemon. 

EiBBON Cake. — Two cups of butter, four cups of 
sugar, two cups of sour cream, seven cups of flour, 
nine eggs, and two teaspoons of baking powder. 

Boston Pound Cake. — One pound of sugar, three 
fourths of a pound of butter, one pound of flour, six 
eggs, one cup of cream or rich milk, one teaspoon 
of baking powder and two grated lemons. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream, to which add, gradual- 
ly, the cream and lemon wdth a fourth part of the 
flour. Whisk the eggs until thick, (do not separate), 
and stir in one third at a time. After mixing well 
add the remaining flour ; beat all well together, ten 
or fifteen minutes, and stir in the baking powder 
thoroughly, without much beating. Butter the 



CAKES. 91 

pan, put in the batter, spread over smooth with a 
knife, and bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. s. H . 

Fruit Cake. — Three fourths of a pound each of 
butter, sugar and flour, eight eggs, a gill of cream, 
one teaspoon of cinnamon and nutmeg mixed, 
half a gill of brandy, a pound of currants, washed, 
dried smd picked and a pound of raisins seeded and 
chopped. Beat the butter, sugar and spices until 
very light, then add the cream and a fourth part of 
the flour. Whisk the es^o^s until thick, which add 
by degrees. Then add the remainder of the flour, 
half at a time, lastly tlie fruit. Beat all Avell to- 
gether. Butter the pan and line it with white 
paper, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. s. H . 

Jamtiftige Tarte. — Ten eggs, beaten separately, 
one and a half cups of sugar, the grated rind of 
two lemons, one teaspoon of ground cinnamon, one 
teaspoon of cloA^es, half a teaspoon of allspice, one 
fourth of a teaspoon of grated almonds, one saucer 
of raisins, ^ve cents worth of citron, one saucer of 
grated bread soaked in brandy, four grated apples. 

MRS. s. II . 

Delicate Cake. — The whites of sixteen eggs, two 
teacups of the best sugar, half a cup of butter, three 
cups of flour and one teaspoon of baking powder. 
Heat the flour in the oven, but do not brown it. 

MRS. m. p. j . 



92 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Feather Cake. — Half a cup of butter, one cup 
of sugar, half a cup of sweet milk, one and a half 
cups of flour, one eg<r and two teaspoons of baking 
powder. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Loaf Cake.— One cup of molasses, one cup 
of brown sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sour 
milk, four cups of flour, one teaspoon of cloves, 
half a pound each of raisins and currants, one 
fourth of a pound of citron, a little salt and a tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in a little warm water. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Black Cake. — Two cups brown sugar, one cup 
molasses, one and a half cups butter, yolks of four 
eggs, or three whole eggs, two thirds of a cup of 
boiling water and two teaspoons of soda; raisins, 
currants, citron and spices to taste. Make a very 
stift' batter. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Aunt Angie's Black or Fruit Cake. — One 
pound of sugar, one pound of dark browned flour, 
three fourths of a pound of butter, twelve aggs, one 
pint of dark molasses, one glass of wine, one large 
wineglass of brandy, one tablespoon of ground 
cinnamon, one teaspoon of ground cloves, one tea- 
spoon of mace, two nutmegs, two pounds of raisins, 
two pounds of currants, half a pound of citron, two 
teaspoons of baking powder and a pinch of black 
pepper; dredge the fruit in flour, and put it in last. 
Beat the butter and sugar together, then put in the 



CAKES. 93 

eggs and molasses, then brandy, wine, spices, the 
flonr in whicli the baking powder has been sifted, 
and, lastlj^, the fruit. Make into one large cake, and 
bake from two to three hours. Brown the Jlour 
in the oven until quite brown, and use the darkest 
sugar you can find. Tlie whites and yolks are 
beaten together. 

MRS. w. H . 

Currant Cake. — The yolks of eight eggs, two 
cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, four cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking 
powder and one teaspoon of cinnamon. Add one 
pound of currants with the last cup of flour. 

MRS. S. S. L . 

Corn Starch Cake. — Two cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, one cup of milk, two cups of flour, 
half a cup of corn starch, three eggs and one and a 
half teaspoons of baking powder. Sift the starch 
with the flour. 

Velvet Cake. Two cups of sugar, three cups 
of flour, half a cup of butter, four eggs, one tea- 
cup of cold water, two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der; flavor with lemon. Beat the butter and 
sugar to a cream, sift the powder with the flour, 
then gradually add the flour and the water to the 
butter and sugar; beat the eggs separately; add 
them and then beat all well together. 

Plum Cake. — One cup of butter, three cups ot 
sugar, three and a half cups of flour, one pound 
of raisins, one pound of currants (or figs chopped 



94 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

fine) one tablespoon of cinnamon, half a nutmeg, 
half a pound of citron, sliced very thin, three eggs, 
well beaten together, one cup of sweet milk and 
four teaspoons of baking powder; flavor to suit the 
taste. This can be used for steamed pudding. 

Orange Cake. — Mix well together the yolks 
(witliout beating) of two eggs, and two cups of su- 
gar, then add the beaten whites. — Next add a large 
spoonful of butter, a cup of sweet milk, tliree 
cups of flour and two teaspoons of baking powder; 
flavor and bake in jelly tins. Filling. — Grate the 
rinds of two oranges and a lemon, add the juice 
of the same and one cup of water, one cup of 
sugar and a tablespoon of corn starch ; boil, and 
cool before using. 

Orange Cake, No. 2. — Two cups of sugar and 
the yolks of five eggs beaten to a cream, the 
whites of four eggs, five tablespoons of cold water, 
tw^o cups of flour mixed well with three teaspoons 
of baking powder, and the juice of one lemon ; 
add the beaten whites last. Between. — The whites 
of two eggs, the rind of one and the juice of two 
medium sized oranges, and one pint of pulverized 
sugar. Bake the cake in two large jelly tins; when 
done split with a very sharp knife, and put the 
mixture betw^een. 

MRS. G. s. B . 

Hickory Nut Cake. — Two cups of sugar, three 
fourths of a cup of butter, three cups of flour, 
three teaspoons of baking powder, mixed well 



CAKES. 95 

with the flour, three fourths of a cup of sweet 
milk, the whites of six eggs, one pint of nuts and 
one cup of seeded and chopped raisins well floured. 

MRS. G. s. B . 

CocoANUT Cake. — Five eggs beaten separately, 
tw^o cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, and 
four cups of flour into wliich two teaspoons of 
baking powder have been well sifted. Add the 
flour to the butter, sugar, and eggs, by degrees, 
after they have been well beaten, with one cup of 
new milk. Flavor with lemon or vanilla ; bake in 
jelly cake pans. Get a box of desiccated cocoanut, 
beat the whites of three eggs with one cup of su- 
gar, spread the icing on. and sprinkle with cocoa- 
nut. Spread it between the layers and on the top. 

Angel Cake. — One and a half tumblers of gran- 
ulated sugar, the whites of eleven eggs, one tum- 
bler of flour, one teaspoon of cream tartar. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth, into which 
stir the sugar, after it has been sifted five times ; 
sift the flour, with the cream tartar in it, five times, 
and stir very lightly into the eggs and sugar. 
Flavor with vanilla and bake in a gallon milk pan, 
in a slow oven, forty minutes. 

MRS. c. v. J . 



mm 



teilpHE whites of four eggs, one pound of powder- 
%j^ ed sugar, half a tablespoon each of cream 
tartar and corn starch ; flavoring to suit the taste. 

MRS. s. s. L . 

Boiled Icing. — Boil one pound of loaf sugar, 
with a very little water, to a clear, thick syrup, 
then pour it slowly into the whites of four eggs 
well beaten; stir briskly until cool; add a little 
vinegar, and flavor to taste. 

Lemon Paste. — Grate two lemons, add the juice, 
one cup of white sugar, one large spoonful of but- 
ter and the yolks of three eggs ; stir constantly over 
the fire until it jellies; when cold spread between 
the cakes. 



^p/KLi pjKji^^ ^^M pQ'm^^^ 



jTOERRY Short Cake. — One qnartof sifted flour, 
'^-^i one fourth of a poiincl of butter, or butter and 
suet together, chopped fine in the flour, two heap« 
ing teaspoons of white sugar, two teaspoons baking 
powder, all wet with cold water or milk to the 
right consistency, and rolled quite thin, as for jelly 
cake. Bake in sheets, in a quick oven, till just 
done, without browning. Then spread fruit of any 
kind twice the thickness of the buyers, alternating 
fruit and layers until the whole is as thick as de- 
sired. Strawberries should be mashed an hour be- 
fore using, and well sprinkled with sugar. Return 
to the oven with the fruit, and brown the sides and 
top. Serve with cream. Apple jam or sauce, 
canned peaches mashed, rich rhubarb sauce, or 
best lemon paste can be substituted for berries. 

Rich Cookies, ^o. 1. — Four teacups flour, one 
teacup butter, one and a half teacups sugar, two 
eggs and half a teaspoon soda dissolved in water. 
Roll thin. 

MRS. S. S. L . 

Cookies, ^N'o. 2. — One and a half cups of sugar, 
three fourths of a cup of butter, three eggs, two 



98 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK 

tablespoons of water, one teaspoon of baking pow- 
der; flavol', and mix stiff enough to roll nicely. 

MRS. J. H. M . 

Scotch Cookies, No. 3. — One and a half cups of 
sugar, half a cup of molasses, one and a fourth 
cups of butter and lard, two eggs, one teaspoon of 
soda, one teaspoon of cloves, one teaspoon of all- 
spice and two teaspoons of cinnamon ; flavor to 
taste, roll out thin, and bake. 

Molasses Cookies, No. 4. — Two cups molasses, 
one cup brown sugar, one cup butter, three-fourths 
cup boiling water, two heaping teaspoons of soda 
— flour to roll out. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Cookies, No. 5. — Two cups sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup sour milk or water, one teaspoon of soda, 
and a little nutmeg. Do not make dough too stiff*; 
use barely enough flour to keep it from sticking to 
the moulding board. Roll thin. 



MRS. WM. H- 



GiNGER Cakes. — One pint of molasses, one tea- 
cup of sugar, one teacup of butter or lard, one tea- 
cup of warm water, one tablespoon of ginger, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, one tablespoon of soda and 
one teaspoon of pulverized alum. Roll thin. 

MRS. s. s. L . 

Ginger Snaps. — Two cups of molasses, nine 
teaspoons of melted butter, three teaspoons of gin- 
ger, one teaspoon of soda dissolved in hot water, 
enough flour to stiffen, and roll thin. 



SMALL CAKES AND COOKIES. 99 

Ginger Snaps, Xo. 2.— One cup sugar, one cup 
niohisses, one cup butter, two eggs, two teaspoons 
baking powder, one tablespoon ginger; mix stitt* 
enough to roll nicely. 

MRS. J. H. M . 

French Doughnuts. — One cup of butter, three 
cups of white sugar, one pint of sweet milk, with 
two teaspoons of cream tartar dissolved in it, four 
eggs, one teaspoon of soda sifted in three pints of 
flour, and the juice of one lemon. 

MRS. GEO. B- . 

Scotch Cakes. — Two and a half pounds of sugar, 
one and a fourth pounds of butter, three pounds of 
flour, five eggs, half a pint of molasses, one ounce 
soda mixed with the molasses. Roll very thin, 
brush over when rolled with a well beaten egg, cut 
with cake cutter, bake in a quick oven, giving each 
cake 'plenty of room. 

MRS. G. S. B . 

Doughnuts. — One cup of sugar, one egg, a small 
tablespoon of butter, a scant cup of milk, flour 
enough to make stifl:', in which is mixed two tea- 
spoons of baking powder. 

MRS. c. V. J . 

Jumbles. — One heaping coftee cup of sugar, one 
even cup of butter, four eggs, one fourth of a tea- 
spoon of soda, dissolved in a little warm water. 
Flour to roll soft and very thin. 

MRS. M. p. J . 



100 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Jumbles, No. 2. — Two cups of sugar, one cup 
each of butter and sweet milk, three eggs and two 
teaspoons of baking powder. Mix the butter and 
sugar, then the yolks, add the milk, whites and flour 
enough to drop in pans, lastly the baking powder. 
Sprinkle on a little sugar and cinnamon before 
baking. 

Sugar Drops. — Six teaspoons of butter, twelve 
teaspoons of sugar, (heat the butter) six eggs, half 
a cup of cold water and flour enough to make a 
stiff batter. Drop with a teaspoon and bake. 

Lady Fingers. — Four eggs beaten separately 
very light, three ounces sugar, three ounces flour. 
Beat the yolks and sugar together, put in the flour 
and flavoring, and stir all well together. Drop 
through a funnel, sift on sugar and then bake mod- 
erately. 

Drop Cakes. — Four eggs, one pint milk, a little 
salt, flour enough to make a batter, not stift'. Bake 
in cups. 

Bachelors' Buttons. — Rub two ounces butter 
in five ounces of flour, add Ave ounces of sugar. 
Beat one egg with half of the sugar, then put it to 
the other ingredients; add flavoring to taste. Roll 
them in the hand, size of a large nut, sprinkle with 
sugar, place on tins with buttered paper, and bake 
lightly. 

Sand Tarts. — One cup sugar, half a cup of but- 
ter, one egg, a pinch of soda dissolved in hot wa- 
ter, cinnamon, and flour enough to roll out thin. 

MRS. s. H . 



SMALL CAKES AND COOKIES. 101 

Maccaroons.— One pound sugar, half a pound 
grated almonds, one ounce bitter almonds, and the 
wliites of seven eggs. Mix the almonds, blanched 
and pounded quite fine; beat the eggs very stiff, 
then add the sugar, a teaspoonfnl at a time, until all 
is added, stir in the almonds lightly. Put on white 
paper with a teaspoon, about an inch apart, and 
bake in a cool oven. 



?'V5$ij^<;?- 



XCEM0:N' Pudding.— Half a pound of butter, half 
■^p a pound of sugar, two ounces of stale sponge 
cake, rubbed fine, five eggs, two tablespoons of rose 
water and brandy mixed, and the juice and grated 
rind of one lemon. Beat the butter and sugar very 
light, then add the grated sponge cake; whisk the 
eggs until very light, which stir in by degrees, lastly 
the brandy, rose water and lemon, alternately. 
Mix well without beating too much. This will 
make two puddings, soup plate size. Line your 
dish with a rich paste, and bake in a quick oven. 
When done, sift sugar over it. 

MRS. s. H . 

Lemon Custard. — The grated rind and juice of 
two lemons, half a cup of butter, three cups of 
sugar, six eggs, one quart of milk. Stir the 
sugar and butter, then the yolks; beat the whites 
and stir them in. Bake in a buttered dish. 

MRS. s. H . 

Suet Pudding. — One cup chopped suet, one cup 
raisins, one cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one 
teaspoon soda, and flour enough to make a batter; 
steam three hours. To be eaten with sauce. 

MRS. M. p. J . 



PUDDINGS. lOeS 

Fig Pudding, No. 1. — Six ounces bread crumbs 
six ounces suet, six ounces sugar, half a pound of tigs 
chopped tine, three eggs, one cup milk, half a glass 
of brandy, or not, one nutmeg and two teaspoons 
of baking powder. Steam three hours. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Suet Pudding, No. 2. — One cup suet chopped 
fine, one cup brown sugar, one cup milk, one cup 
raisins, two and a half cups flour, three teaspoons 
of baking powder. Mix, and boil in a pudding 
mould, or floured bag, two and a half hours. 

xMRS. C. V. J & MRS. K. R . 

Danish Pudding. — Eight eggs, one quart of milk, 
two tablespoons of sugar, one tablespoon of vanilla, 
a pinch of salt and two cups of sugar, browned 
nicely. Have cake in another pan of boiling water- 
Serve cold. 

MRS. K. R . 

Snow Pudding. — Dissolve half a box of Coxe's 
gelatine in a pint of boiling water; add the juice 
of three lemons; sweeten to taste, and let it cool; 
when nearly cold add the whites of three eggs 
beaten stifl', then pour into a mould, to cool. When 
ready to serve, whip cream, sweeten it a little, and 
pour it over the pudding. 

MRS. M. p. J . 

Double-quick Pudding. — One egg, one cup sugar, 
one cup flour, half a cup cream, half a cup raisins, 
two teaspoons butter, two teaspoons baking powder, 
stirred in the flour; stir all together, and steam or 



104 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

bake. Sauce for same. — Three heaping tablespoons 
of susrar, one of flour, two of butter: stir until 
smooth. Pour on boiling water until it is of the 
consistency of cream; boil it one minute; flavor 
with vanilla. 

MRS. J. c. J . 

Cottage Pudding. — One cup sugar, two eggs 
beaten together very light, three tablespoons 
melted butter, one teacup sweet milk, one pint 
flour and two teaspoons baking powder. Flavor. 

Apple Batter Pudding. — Peel six tart baking 
apples, core them, and till the cavities with sugar; 
put them in a deep dish, and cover with batter. If 
the apples have been previously baked until quite 
done, sponge cake batter poured over the apples 
makes a nice pudding. To be eaten hot with 
cream or sauce. 

Apples a-la Turque. — Pare and core a dozen 
good apples, put them into a basin with some thin 
syrup and the yellow rind of a lemon ; cover close- 
ly, and simmer until they are soft and clear. Take 
them out and lay them on a dish with wet white 
paper over them; this will prevent them from dis- 
coloring. Now cover a dish with puft* paste, prick 
the bottom and bake it. When the paste is done 
fill the holes made by the removal of the cores 
of the apples with raspberry jam, and arrange 
them on the paste in the shape of a cone. Beat 
the whites of six eggs to a stilF snow, and add to 
them six ounces of white sugar. Mix this gently, 



PUDDINGS. 105 

and pile the meringue mass upon the apples. Sift 
a little white sugar over it, and set it into the oven 
until it is of a light brown color. 

Potato Pudding. — Pare six good sized potatoes, 
place them in a chopping bowl, scatter over them 
enough flour to fill a teacup, add salt, pepper and 
butter to taste, chop fine and mix Avell. Grease a 
deep pie tin, spread the mixture in it and cover 
with cream. Bake slowly half or three quarters of 
an hoar. 

Bombay Pudding. — To a good, sweet custard 
add a little butter, orated nutmes^ and a i^hiss of 
wine or brandy. Have ready a nicely grated 
cocoanut and mix all well together. Line your 
dish with puff paste. Pour in the custard and 
bake a light brown. It is nice without the crust. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. — Take half a 
pound of bread, cut in slices, and spread it thick 
wdth butter. Take a deep pudding dish well 
buttered ; cover the bottom with slices of the 
bread, strew^ in a few currants, stoned raisins or 
even jam, — then another layer of bread, and so on. 
Make a custard of one and a half pints of milk, 
four or five eggs, half a cup of sugar, a little nut- 
meg and salt, and a pinch of soda. Pour this over 
the bread ; let it stand two hours ; bake one hour. 

BuNN Pudding. Take as many bunns as can 
be set into a dish without crowding. Make a cus- 
tard of five eggs to a quart of milk, half a cup of 
sugar, a little salt and flavoring. Pour the custard 
over the bunns and let it stand till they are well 



106 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

soaked. If the custard is all absorbed, fill up the 
dish and bake three quarters of an hour. 

Chocolate Custard. — Beat seven eggs separate- 
ly; to the yolks add one fourth of a pound of white 
sugar; stir in the whites; dissolve one fourth of a 
pound of chocolate in one pint of hot milk, add 
one and a half pints of cream; give it one boil, 
turn it into the egg, stirring all the time. Strain it 
into a pitcher, set the pitcher into boiling water, 
stirring the custard constantly until it thickens. 
To be used in glasses to eat cold. 

Custard. — To one quart of milk take six eggs, 
one cup of sugar, a little salt and flavoring. Put 
the milk in the milk boiler and scald it; then pour 
it into the eggs and sugar, after they are well 
beaten ; add a small piece of butter; put it into a 
pudding dish and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Christmas Pudding. — One pound of bread 
crumbs or pounded crackers; wet them with milk, 
let it stand until well soaked but not too thin ; add 
eight well beaten eggs, half a pound of sugar, the 
same of suet, a cup of molasses, a cup of brandy, a 
tablespoon of salt, one and a half pounds of stoned 
raisins, half a pound of citron cut fine, one pound of 
currants, (or chopped figs) one nutmeg, half a tea- 
spoon of mace, one teaspoon of cloves, one grated 
lemon rind, and a teaspoon of soda. Boil in a 
mould, or floured pudding bag, ^ve hours. To be 
served with rich brandy or wine sauce. It adds 
very much to the appearance to pour over it half 



PUDDINGS. 107 

a cup of bi-andy and set fire to it before sending 
it to the table. 

Eve's Pudding. — Haifa pound of bread crumbs, 
one pint of milk, four eggs, half a pound of suet, 
chopped fine, one fourth of a pound of chopped 
apples, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, 
and half a teaspoon of soda. Put into a mould 
and boil three hours. 

Frozen Pudding. — Butter a pudding mould. 
Take stale fruit and sponge cake, put a layer of 
cake at the bottom of the mould, then a layer of 
jelly or jam, then a layer of cake, and so on till 
the mould is two thirds full. Turn on some good 
wine or brandy. Make a good boiled custard, and 
fill the mould with it ; let it stand till the cake is 
soft. Let it stand covered in salt and ice seven or 
eight hours. When you wish to turn it out of the 
mould dip it for a second in hot water, and turn 
on to the dish. 

Orange Pudding. — Half a pound of bread 
crumbs soaked in half a pint of boiled milk; strain 
through a cullender; add one fourth of a pound of 
sugar, half a teaspoon of soda, half a pint of sweet 
orange juice, the grated rind of one orange and 
five eggs beaten separately ; bake in a quick oven. 
— Wine sauce. 

Lemon Meringue Pudding. — One quart milk, 
two cups bread crumbs, four eggs, half cup but- 
ter, one cup white sugar, one large lemon, the juice 
and half the rind grated. Soak the bread in the 



108 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

milk, add tlie beaten yolk, with tlie batter and sug- 
ar rubbed to a cream, also the lemon. Bake in a 
buttered dish until firm and browned slightly ; cov- 
er with a meringue made of the whites whipped to 
a stiff froth, with three tablespoons of powdered 
white sugar and a little lemon juice. Brown 
slightly. 

Corn Starch Meringue. — Four eggs, one quart 
milk, three fourths cup sugar, four teaspoons corn 
starch, half a cup of jelly or jam. Heat the milk 
to boiling, and stir in the corn starch which has 
been previously dissolved in cold milk; boil fifteen 
minutes, stirring all the time; remove from the 
fire, and, while hot, add gradually' the yolks of the 
eggs, beaten up with the sugar; flavor with lemon 
or vanilla. Pour this into a pudding dish well but- 
tered, and bake until the custard begins to set. 
Then put on the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, 
sweetened, and flavored. Brown slightly. Eat 
cold. 

Iris» Potato Pudding. — Weigh one pound of 
potatoes after thej^are pared, boil them, and, when 
well done, pour off the water; let them dry. 
Mash them while they are still hot, add a pint of 
cream or rich milk, butter the size of an Qg'j,, a small 
cup of sugar, a gill of wine or the juice of one lem- 
on, four eggs, beaten light, and a little salt. Bake 
in a deep dish, or use pie crust and make into pies. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. — Five eggs, one fourth 
pound butter, one fourth pound sugar, as much 



PUDDINGS. 109 

mashed sweet potato, cold, as will thicken it ; a 
glass of brandy, the juice and grated rind of a lem- 
on, and spice, if you like. Bake in a deep buttered 
dish, or in pies. 

Steamed Batter Pudding. — One cup sugar, three 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, one heaping teaspoon 
baking powder, a little salt, flour enough to make 
the batter a little thicker than the batter for pan- 
cakes ; steam twenty minutes. Sauce for same. — 
One cup sugar, mixed with one tablespoon of flour, 
and butter the size of an Qgg. Rub well together 
and pour on boiling water until as thick as cream. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

A Nice Pudding. — Six eggs, six tablespoons of 
flour, half a pint of sweet milk and a pinch of salt. 
Beat the eggs well, stir in the flour, add salt and 
milk; flour your sack, have the water boiling, put the 
mixture into the sack, tie loosely to allow for risino-. 
Boil three quarters of an hour. Sauce. — Three large 
tablespoons of butter, same amount of white sugar, 
and water ; grate in a little nutmeg. If for plum 
pudding add a glass of old port wine. 

Bake Day Pudding— Take two cups light dough, 
roll it thin, spread on a layer of jam or any fruit 
you may like, or you can work all through it half 
a pound of raisins. Let the dough thus prepared 
rise until light. Steam an hour, sometimes long- 
er. Eaten with sugar and cream. 

Farmer's Pudding. — One quart sweet milk, three 
eggs, flour enough to make a thick batter, just so 



110 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

that it will pour, and one and a half teaspoons 
baking powder. Pare and quarter enough apples 
to fill a gallon pan ; pour the batter over the apples 
and bake. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Puff Pudding. — Four eggs well beateu, three 
cups sweet milk, two cups flour, one third cup but- 
ter. Beat until all is in a foam. Have ready some 
nicely buttered cups, fill half full, and bake in a 
quick oven until nicely browned. Eat with cream 
or sauce. 

Apple Dumpling, Boiled. — One pound of flour, 
half a pound of suet. Chop the suet in a little of 
the flour, to prevent its caking — chop as fine as 
meal ; add a teaspoon of salt and two teaspoons of 
baking powder. Mix with enough water or milk 
for a paste. Poll it, but not as thin as for pie crust. 
Pare, core and quarter a dozen large apples. Put 
the four quarters together, cut the paste into squares, 
to cover the apples. Tie in a cloth, well floured, 
and boil till done. 

Apple Dumplings, Baked. Roll out some dough 
thicker than pie crust, and enclose a handful of 
ripe apples, sliced — covered with butter and sugar, 
and a few bits of cinnamon bark. Bring the edges 
together, as in any other dumpling. When as many 
are made as desired, place them side by side in a 
pudding pan, spread butter and sugar over them 
— pour in enough water to till the pan. Place in 
the oven and bake a nice brown. Cook moderately. 



r^j^m v^^^^m^- 



|X|PPLE Charlotte. — Beat two cups of nice ap- 
^i^ pie sauce, well sweetened and Havored, to a 
high froth, with the whipped whites of three eggs; 
make it into a mound in a ghiss dish and cover it 
with lady's fingers or other small sponge cakes fit- 
ted neatly together. Send around cream with it. 

Apple Snow. — Peel and core five large apples, 
boil them in a little water until soft enough to pass 
through a sieve; sweeten and beat with them the 
beaten whites of three eggs. Serve with cream. 

Charlotte Russe. — One pint of rich cream, 
sweetened; add wine to taste, whip very light; 
steep one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of water 
until reduced one half. Line a dish with sponge 
cake and pour on the cream. Set on ice to congeal. 

MRS. w. s. H . 

Ice Cream. — To one gallon of milk take eight 
eggs and one and a half pounds of white sugar. 
Cook the eggs in half the milk; add the sugar 
while warm : when cold add the rest of the milk, 
and flavor to taste. Freeze. 

MRS. s. s. l . 



112 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Ice Cream, 'No. 2. — Two pounds of sugar to 
one gallon of cream. Whip the cream and flavor 
to taste. When half frozen add the beaten whites 
of six eo^o^s. 

Tapioca Cream. — Two tablespoonfuls of tapioca, 
which has been previously soaked in cold water 
several hours, one quart of milk, and a little salt. 
When the tapioca has boiled soft, remove it from 
the Are. Stir in one whole egg, the yolks of three, 
a cup of sugar, and flavoring to suit the taste. Put 
on to boil ten or fifteen minutes, stirring constant- 
ly. Beat the whites and stir them in just before 
takins: from the fire. Pour into a dish and serve 
hot or cold. Two eggs with one tablespoon of 
corn starch will answer. 

MRS. w. w. B . 



Orange Cream. — Make a rich pie crust and bake 
it in a pan ; quarter some oranges and lay them on 
the crust. Take the yolks of four eggs, a little 
wine and sugar, according to taste, also a little 
orange juice. Stir it on the fire uutil thick. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth; stir all together and 
pour over the fruit. 

Whipped Cream. — Dissolve half a box of Coxe's 
gelatine in a little hot water, and set it aside to 
cool. Sweeten a half gallon of thick, sweet, rich 
cream, using pulverized sugar; flavor with vanil- 
la; add the gelatine, and wliip with an egg-beater 
until very stiff. Serve in float glasses. 

MISS anna c . 



FANCY DESSERTS. 113 

Hen's Nest. — Get nice eggs, make a hole at one 
end and empty the shells; fill them with blanc 
mange. When it is cold and hard take oft* the 
shells. Pare the yellow rind from six lemons and 
boil them in water until tender; then cut them 
into thin strips to resemble straw, and preserve 
them in sugar; fill a small, deep dish half full of 
nice jelly, and when it is set, put on the strips of 
lemon in the form of a nest, and lay the eggs in it. 



m?- 



]©ASTRY for Pies. — Take half as much lard as 
'^t flour, add a little salt and a cup of very cold 
water. Mix all together, but mix the lard very 
thoroughly in the flour before pouring in the water. 

MRS. WM. H . 

Puff Paste. — To every pound of flour take three 
fourths of a pound of butter, the yolk of an egg, and 
ice cold water. Chop half the butter in the flour, 
then add the beaten yolk and as much water as 
needed. Work all into a dough, roll out thin, and 
spread on some of the butter ; fold closely, buttered 
side in, and re-roll ; repeat until the butter is all 
used up. Keep in a cool place until you wish to 
use it. 

Mince Meat. — Three pounds of lean meat, (beef) 
boiled; when cold chop fine; one pound beef suet, 
chopped fine, &ve pounds of apples after they are 
pared, cored and chopped, one pound Sultana 
raisins picked and washed, two pounds raisins 
seeded and chopped, three fourths pound citron 
cut fine, two tablespoons each of cinnamon and 
mace, one nutmeg grated, one tablespoon each of 



PIES. 115 

ground allspice, cloves and salt, two and a half 
pounds of brown sugar, one quart sweet cider, 
sherry wine, or the vinegar left from sweet pickles, 
and one pint bi'andy. Keep in stone jars well cov- 
ered. It is an improvement to put in two chopped 
lemons. 

Cream Pie. — One pint sweet milk, one table- 
spoon corn-starch, previously dissolved in cold 
milk, half a cup of sugar, one egg, beaten and put 
in with the corn starch, and a piece of butter; 
Flavor. Boil until thick. Cake. Three eo:o:s beat- 
en separately, three tablespoons water, one cup 
sugar, one and a half cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder; add the whites of eggs last; 
bake quickly in two pie pans; split open and 
spread custard between; sprinkle the top with su- 
gar ; eat cold. 

Cream Pie, No. 2. — Beat the yolks of three eggs 
very light, with a cup of sugar ; add the grated 
rind of a lemon, a pinch of salt, and half a cup of 
corn-starch dissolved in a little cold milk. Pour 
on to this a pint of boiling milk, stirring all the 
time. Return to the fire until it thickens, stirring 
all the time. Line a pie pan with some good pie 
crust and bake it. Fill the shell with the custard, 
and cover the top with a meringue made of the 
whites of three eggs, three ounces of powdered 
sugar, and the juice of the lemon. Return to the 
oven and brown slightly. Vanilla can be used 
instead of lemon, if preferred. 



116 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Pie. — The juice of one lemon, one teacup 
of white sugar, one teacup of water, one egg, and 
one teaspoon of flour; two crusts. This makes 
one pie. 

Lemon Pie, No 2. — One tablespoon of butter, 
three fourths of a cup of sugar, three eggs, and the 
juice of one lemon. Bake in open shells of paste. 
Cream the sugar and butter, stir the lemon into 
the beaten yolks and bake. Beat the whites to 
a stiff meringue with three tablespoons of pow- 
dered sugar, and a little rose water. When the 
pies are done, take them from the oven, spread 
the meringue over the top, return them to the 
oven, and brown slightly. 

MRS. JOS. p . 

Lemon Pie, Ko. 3. One cup of sugar, one table- 
spoon of corn starch, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, one lemon, one teacup of boiling water, and one 
eofof. Mix the corn starch with a little cold water, 
and stir it into the boiling water. Let it boil up, 
then pour it on to the butter and sugar; when cold 
beat in the egg and the juice and grated rind of the 
lemon. 

MRS. c. V. J . 

Lemon Pie, No. 4. — The juice and grated rind of 
one large lemon, one cup of sugar, thej-olksof two 
eggs, three tablespoons of flour, and one and a half 
cups of milk. Beat the whites with four table- 
spoons of sugar, and put over the pie when nearly 
done. Brown slightly in the oven. 

MRS. J. H. M . 



PIES. 117 

Lemon Pie, 'No. 5. — One pint of boiling water, 
a piece of butter, the grated rind and juice of one 
lemon, onQ cup of sugar; when the water is boil- 
ing pour in two beaten yolks, with one and a half 
tablespoons of corn starch mixed with a little 
cold water; stir constantly until it thickens, and 
then pour into open shells previously baked. 
When nearly done, spread the whites beaten with 
two tablespoons of powdered sugar, over the top. 
"Return to the oven, and brown slightly. 

MRS. EVA s . 

Lemon Custard Pie. — Three eggs, one and a 
half pints of milk one teacup of sugar, three 
tablespoons of flour, and one tablespoon of lemon 
extract. Boil the milk ; mix flour, sugar and yolks 
with a little milk. Pour into the boiling milk. 
Then fill the pies, and bake. Beat the whites with 
half a teacup of sugar and a little lemon. Spread 
over the pie and bake to a delicate brown. 

MRS. s. s. L . 

Pumpkin Pie. — One quart of strained pumpkin, 
two quarts of milk, one pint of cream, one teaspoon 
of salt, four teaspoons of ginger, two teaspoons of 
cinnamon, and six eggs. 

MRS. s. s. L . 

Custard Pie. Take two eggs, two tablespoons 
of sugar, one tablespoon of flour, and one pint of 
sweet milk. Flavor with nutmeg. For one pie. 

MRS. s. s. L . 



118 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Apple Custard Pie. — Stew some apples so soft 
that they will ran through a sieve. To a quart of 
stewed apples add two teacups of sugar, one pint 
of milk, half a cup of butter, five eggs, a grated 
lemon peel, and bake in puff paste. 

Pine- Apple Pie. — A grated pine-apple, its 
weight in sugar, half its weight in butter, one 
cupful of cream, and five eggs beaten separately. 
Cream the butter, sugar and yolks until very light, 
then add the cream, pine-apple and whites. Bake 
with one crust. Eat cold. 

Apple Meringue Pie. — Stew, and sweeten juicy 
apples, when you have pared and sliced them ; mash 
smooth and season with nutmeg. Fill ^^our crusts 
and bake till done. Spread over the apples a thick 
meringue, made by beating the whites to a stift 
froth, sweetened vvith a tablespoon of powdered 
sugar to each egg. Flavor with rose or vanilla. 
Brown slightly in the oven. Peaches are even 
more delicious when used in the same manner. 

Green Apple Pie. — Pare, quarter, core and 
stew, nice tart apples in enough water to prevent 
them from burning; when tender, sweeten very 
sweet with white sugar; fill the crust, grate on a 
little nutmeg, cover, and bake until quite done. 

Raisin Pie. — One pound of raisins; pour over 
them one quart of boiling water and keep adding 
so that there will be one quart when done. Grate 
the rind of one lemon into a cup of sugar, then 
add three teaspoons of flour and one egg; mix well 



PIES. 119 

together. Turn the raisins over the mixture stir- 
ring the while. Bake as other pies. 

Green Tomato Pie. — Select nice, smooth toma- 
toes, pare them very thin, slice them into a pie-dish 
lined with puff paste. Put half a cup of sugar and 
a few bits of butter to a pie and sift on a little flour. 
Use sliced lemon, lemon extract or nutmeg for 
flavoring. Put on the upper crust carefully, so that 
the juice will not escape in baking. 

Ripe Tomato Pie. — Prepare the pastry as for an 
apple pie ; slice in as many ripe tomatoes as will 
flll the plate ; sprinkle a single handful of flour 
over; it add two teaspoons of lemon extract and 
one teacup of white sugar. Wet the edge of the 
bottom crust before covering with the top. The 
fruit will be cooked as soon as the crusts are. 

Apple Custard Pie, No. 2. — Peel tart apples and 
stew them until soft, not leaving much water in 
them. Strain through a cullender ; beat three eggs 
for each pie to be baked, and put in one third of a 
cup each of butter and sugar for each pie ; season 
with nutmeg, cover with frosting as in lemon pie, 
and return for a few minutes to the oven. 

CocoANUT Pie. — One quart new milk, the yolks 
of five eggs, one cup sugar, the grated rind and 
juice of one lemon, and one good sized cocoanut ; 
whip the whites well, add sugar to taste, and put 
on top of the pie when baked. Brown again slight- 

MRS. G. S. B . 



^i;-q^T^^|.^^. 



VEGETABLES should be carefally cleansed 
'^^ from insects, and nicely washed. Every 
kind of vegetable, except green peas, should lie in 
cold water some time before cooking. Boil them 
in plenty of water and drain them the moment they 
are done enough. In order to boil vegetables of a 
good green color take care that the water boils 
when they are put in. Make them boil fast. Do 
not cover them, but watch them. Take them out 
immediately after they are done, else the color 
will change. 

Baked Potatoes. — Wash and wipe them dry, 
put them into the oven with the skins on, and 
bake three fourths to one hour. When half done 
prick them with a fork, to let out the steam and 
prevent them from being soggy. 

Whipped Potatoes. — Whip boiled potatoes to 
creamy lightness, with a fork; beat in butter, milk, 
pepper and salt, and, at last, the frothed white of an 
Qgg. Toss irregularly upon a dish and set them in 
the oven two minutes to reheat, but do not color. 

Mashed Potatoes, Browned. — Whip boiled 
potatoes light with cream, butter and salt; pile on 
a greased pie dish, and brown in a good oven. 



VEGETABLES. 121 

Pone-De-Tat. — One dozen medium sized pota- 
toes boiled, peeled and sliced ; put a layer of" po- 
tatoes, and finely crumbed cheese, with butter, 
pepper, salt and ground mustard between the 
layers. Have the last layer of cheese. Put into a 
quick oven and bake twenty minutes. 

MRS. K. R . 

Scalloped Potatoes. — Slice cold boiled potatoes 
very thin and small; put one quart of them into a 
baking dish, in layers, with two even teaspoons of 
salt, two thirds of a teaspoon of pepper, and two and 
a half ounces of butter; pour half a pint of cream 
or milk over the whole; cover the potatoes with 
grated bread, a little pepper salt and small bits of 
butter. Bake until thoroughly heated and brown- 
ed. 

Sweet Potatoes. — Boil softly, peel carefully and 
lay in a greased dripping pan, in a good oven. As 
they begin to crust over baste them frequently with 
a little butter and water. A little sugar sprinkled 
over them is an addition. When brown they are 
done. 

Stuffed Cabbage. — One common sized head of 
cabbage, scooped out, with the cap left to put on, 
one teacup of chopped ham and the cabbage that 
came out, one teacup of bread or crackers rolled 
fine, butter, pepper, salt and mustard to taste ; boil or 
steam until done and serve with drawn butter. 

MRS. K. R . 



122 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cold Slaw. — Cut cabbage fine, sprinkle over it 
pepper and salt and set it in a cool place. Take two 
eggs, or the yolks of three, five tablespoons of vin- 
egar, three teaspoons of sugar, half a teaspoon of 
made mustard and one teaspoon of butter; put thera 
in a tin cup and stir them over the fire, until it be- 
comes a smooth paste; let it become cold and then 
mix with the cabbage ready for use. 

Slaw, No. 2. — Cut cabbage fine and sprinkle 
salt over it; then take the hands and squeeze the 
cabbage thoroughly, until it is well seasoned : sprin- 
kle over some sugar and squeeze again, the same as 
with the salt; next, pepper to taste and pour vin- 
egar over it, and it is ready for use. 

MRS. w. w. B . 

Celery Slaw. — Cabbage, celery, and two hard 
boiled eggs, chopped fine : season to taste with 
salt, pepper and mustard ; moisten with vinegar. 

Tomatoes, Stewed. — Scald and skin the desired 
number, and place in a stew pan without water; 
let them simmer for half an hour. Add butter, 
pepper, salt, a spoonful of white sugar, and a little 
cream. Grate a few bits of stale bread over all. 
Boil up once, and serve hot. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. — Put a layer of bread 
crumbs on the bottom of a buttered pudding dish, 
and on them a layer of tomatoes ; sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and a few bits of butter, (if liked a few bits 
of onion,) another layer of bread crumbs, another 
of tomatoes, and seasoning. Then a top layer of 



VEGETABLES. 123 

bread crumbs. Bake, covered, until boiling bot, 
and brown quickl3\ 

Stuffed Tomatoes. — Get tbem as large and firm 
as possible ; cut a round place in tbe top of eacb, 
and scrape out all the soft parts, and mix tbem witb 
stale bread crumbs, corn, onions, parsley, butter, 
pepper and salt ; cbop very fine, and fill tbe to- 
matoes carefully ; Bake in a moderately hot oven, 
put a little butter in tbe pan, and see that they do 
not burn nor become dry. 

Baked Tomatoes. — Pour boiling v^ater over tbem 
to remove the skins. Put them into a deep, well 
buttered dish, sprinkle salt,'pepper, butter and pow- 
dered crackers over them. Bake three fourths of 
an hour. Baste occasionally with the liquor that 
comes from them. 

Green Corn Pudding. — One quart of milk, three 
beaten eggs, one dozen ears of grated corn, one 
tablespoon each of butter, sugar and salt. Bake 
in a covered pudding dish one hour. 

Corn Oysters. — Grate enough of green corn to 
make a pint of pulp ; add one teacup of flour, one 
half teacup of butter, one or two eggs, salt and 
pepper to suit taste. Drop with a spoon, and fry in 
hot butter or lard. 

MRS. J. c. J . 

Succotash— Cut off all the corn from the cobs, 
and, an hour before wanted, put the cobs and a few 
shelled beans into water to boil ; let the cobs boil 
one hour; take them out and put in the corn, and 



124 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

boil it half an hour. Have as little water as possi- 
ble ; when done add butter, popper and salt. 
Pork boiled with the corn and beans gives a good 
flavor. 

Canned Corn. — One quart of corn, one quart of 
water, one small teaspoon of tartaric acid; boil 
half an hour; when you open the can, pour off 
the sour water, and pour on boiling water ; put in 
a little soda to sweeten the corn, but not enough 
to yellow it; if so, pour back some of the sour 
water, season with salt, pepper, butter and cream. 

MRS. s. s. L . 

Canned Corn. — Three pints of water to half a gal- 
lon of cut corn and two teaspoons of tartaric acid; 
when opened for use add half a teaspoon of soda. 

MRS. I. N. s . 

Stewed Mushrooms. — Be sure the mushrooms 
are fresh ; cut off the part of the stalk which grew 
in the earth ; wash them, put them into a sauce 
pan with half a pint of water, one ounce of but- 
ter, the juice of one lemon, pepper and salt. Boil 
ten minutes, stirring all the time; thicken half a 
cup of cream with some flour, stir it in, and let it 
boil once. Send to the table in a covered dish. 

Maccaroni. — Break the maccaroni into pieces 
two inches long ; put it to soak in cold water one 
hour; let it boil slowly for half an hour, add a 
little salt and a cup of milk, and let it boil till 
tender; add a small piece of butter and serve as a 
plain vegetable. 



VEGETABLES. 125 

Baked Maccaroni. — After soaking as above, let 
it boil in milk half an hour; have ready some fine- 
ly grated cheese; butter a small dish, and lay in 
the maccaroni w^ith a little salt sprinkled over it. 
Put the grated cheese on top, and put it into the 
oven to brown. 

Oyster Maccaroni. — Boil maccaroni in a cloth 
to keep it straight; put a layer in a dish seasoned 
with butter, pepper and salt, then a layer of oys- 
ters, and so alternating until the dish is full. Mix 
some grated bread with beaten egg^ spread it over 
the top, and bake. 

Cauliflower. — Tie in a net and cook about 
forty-five minutes, in boiling salt water. Drain, 
lay in a deep dish, blossom upward, and pour over 
it half a cup of rich drawn butter with the juice 
of a lemon stirred in. 

Baked Beans. — Take one quart of white beans, 
pick them and soak them over night in plenty of 
water. In the morning pour off the water, put 
the beans in the pot and fill with cold water ; take 
three quarters of a pound of salt pork, scrape the 
rind and score it, put it into the pot before all the 
beans are in, letting the rind of the pork come 
even with the top of the beans ; when tender, put 
them in a deep dish or pan, pork on top, and 
bake a light brown. 

Beets. — Wash, cut off the tops, boil until quite 
tender; scrape, cut into round slices and put in a 
dish, pour over them one tablespoon of butter 



126 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

heated with as much vinegar, and season with pep- 
per and salt. 

Stewed Celery. — Scrape and cut into short 
bits, cook tender in hot salted water; pour this off, 
add enough cold milk to cover the celery, heat to 
a boil, stir in a good spoonful of butter rolled in 
flour, pepper and salt. Stew five minutes longer. 

A little sugar added to parsnips and turnips, 
while boiling, is a great improvement. 



s^^m^f- 



fHREE large cups sugar, a half cup of vinegar, a 
half cup of water. Mix together and boil, 
without stirring, until done. When done add a 
teaspoon of butter and a pinch of soda. 

Peppermint Drops. — One pound powdered su- 
gar, sifted, and the whites of three or four eggs ; 
add ten or twelve drops of oil of peppermint, beat 
well and drop on writing paper. 

CocoANUT Drops. — The whites of three eggs, six 
tablespoons of flour, one cup of sugar and two cups 
of grated cocoanut. 

Cream Candy. — Three pounds loaf sugar, half 
pint of water ; cook on a slow fire half an hour ; add 
one teaspoon of gun:i arable dissolved and one table- 
spoon vinegar; boil until brittle and pull into long 
sticks. 

Black Crook Candy. — One pint of molasses, 
half a pint of brown sugar and one pound of pre- 
pared cocoanut. Boil till it candies. 

Cocoanut Candy. — Boil half a pound of loaf 
sugar with two tablespoons of water ; then stir in 
half a pound of grated cocoanut, flavor with lem- 
ons, and pour into buttered tins. 



128 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Sugar Candy. — Two pounds of coffee sugar, one 
pint of water, half a cup of vinegar and a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Flavor to taste and pull 
same as molasses candy. 

Chocolate Caramel. — Two cups brown sugar, 
one cup molasses, half cup of milk, butter the size 
of an egg, half package of Baker's chocolate, grated 
and dissolved in the milk and one teaspoon of va- 
nilla: boil; when hard turn out one fourth inch 
thick on buttered tins; when partly cool mark it off 
in squares with a knife. 

Molasses Candy. — One cup of sugar, one cup 
of molasses, three quarters of a cup of water, but- 
ter the size of a hickory nut. 

Cream Candy, No. 2. — Two pounds of light 
sugar, one teacup of water, two tablespoons of 
butter, one tablespoon of vinegar ; flavor to taste. 

Butter Scotch. — One pint of syrup, one teacup 
of brown sugar, one tablespoon of butter, one 
tablespoon of vinegar. 

Splendid Candy. — Three teacups of white sug- 
ar, one and a half cups of sweet milk, to dissolve 
it; boil till done, and flavor with vanilla; stir un- 
til hard. 

Horehound Candy. — Prepare a strong decoction 
by boiling two ounces of the dried herb in one 
and a half pints of water for half an hour; strain 
this, and add three and a half pounds of brown sug- 
ar; boil over a hot fire until it reaches the requi- 
site degree of hardness, when it maybe poured out 



CANDY. . 129 

into flat tin trays, previously well greased, and 
marked into sticks or squares with a knife, as it 
becomes cool enough to retain its shape. 

Lemon and Peppermint Drops. — Take two 
ounces of water to one pound of sugar; set it over 
the fire and allow it to nearly boil, keeping it contin- 
ually stirred. It must not actually come to a full 
boil, but must be removed from tlie tire just as 
soon as the bubbles denote that the boiling point 
is reached. Allow the syrup to cool a little, stir- 
ring all the time ; add strong essence of lemon or 
peppermint to suit the taste, and drop it on sheets 
of white paper. They should be kept in a warm 
place a few^ hours to dry. In the season of fruits 
delicious drops may be made by substituting the 
juice of fresh fruits, as strawberry, raspberry, lem- 
on, pineapple or banana. 

Taffy. — Three pounds of the best brown sugar, 
boiled with one and a half pints of water until the 
candy hardens in cold water; add half a pound of 
fresh butter which will soften the candy ; boil a 
few minutes until it again liardens, and pour it 
into trays. Flavor with lemon, if desired. 

Pop Corn Balls. — Take three quarts of popped 
corn ; boil half a pint of molasses about fifteen 
minutes, then put the corn into a large pan and 
pour the molasses over it, stirring briskly until 
thoroughly mixed. Then, with the hands, make 
into balls of the desired size. 



^j^j::E;j.I.^jvij;<)'y^ ^^.j^'O^j^jip-qf;. 



^EMENT. — Mix together equal parts of litharge 
^f and glycerine to the consistency of thick 
cream. This is useful for mending stone jars, or 
any earthen ware, stopping leaks in tin pans, wash 
boilers, or iron teakettles; also in fastening lamp 
tops. The articles should not be used until the 
cement hardens, which will take from one day to 
a week. 

Furniture Polish. — Mix equal parts of boiled 
linseed oil and kerosene. Apply it with a flannel 
rag, and rub the article well with dry flannel. 

Washing Fluid. — One box of refined potash, 
five cents worth' of ammonia and five cents worth 
of salts of tartar. Put the potash in a jar and 
pour over it a gallon of boiling water. When 
cool add salts of tartar and ammonia; cover 
tightly ; soak the clothes in cold w^ater over night. 
In the morning cut half a bar of soap into the 
boiler, and when it is dissolved add one teacup of 
the fluid. Wring out the clothes, put them into 
the boiler and let them boil a few minutes. After 
this tliey will need little rubbing, and very little 
soap. 



MISCELLANEOUS KNOWLEDGE. fsi 

To Clean Ostrich Plumes. — White ones can be 
cleaned by taking four ounces of white soap, cut- 
ting it into small pieces, dissolving it in four pints 
of water, rather hot, and making a lather, and then 
dipping tlie feathers in the mixture and washing 
them gently with the hands for about ten minutes.' 
Rinse them in hot water, and shake them till dry. 
Ostrich tips can be curled by holding them in the 
steam from water until they are damp, then draw- 
ing each fibre separately over the blade of a blunt 
knife. 

Silver Polish. — Mix half an ounce of prepared 
chalk, two ounces of alcohol, and two ounces of 
aqua ammonia. Apply the mixture with a piece of 
cotton liannel, and rub the article to be polished 
with chamois skin. 

Pansies are nice for winter decorations if 
pressed between layers of cotton. When mixed 
with ferns they are nice to put in white willow 
baskets. 

To Cleanse a Meerschaum Pipe. — Use stronor 

o 

coffee. Let it stand in the bowl a short time, or 
draw it back and forth through the stem. 

Wash chamois skin in cold water with plenty 
of soap. Rinse it in cold water. 

If fresh unslacked lime, in small quantities, say 
a quart, be kept in refrigerators it will gradually 
absorb all the moisture in the provision chamber. 
A little experience will soon enable persons to 
know when to remove the lime. 



132 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Ants can be gotten rid of by washing the shelves 
clean, and, while they are damp, rubbing on them 
iine salt, pulverized camphor, live cents worth of 
calomel, cayenne pepper, or powdered cloves. 

To DESTROY HOUSE FLIES. — Take one half tea- 
spoon black pepper, one teaspoon brown sugar and 
one teaspoon cream. Mix them well together in 
a saucer, and place the mixture w^iere the iiies are 
likely to be. 

To CLEAN MARBLE. — Apply benzine liberally, and 
rub it off with a clean flannel. Never apply soap 
to marble, as it takes off the polish. Grease spots 
may be removed, by the application of powdered 
magnesia. 

To KEEP A STOVE FROM RUSTING IN SUMMER. Rub 

kerosene on it in the spring. 

Mirrors should never be hung where the sun 
shines directly upon them. 

To REMOVE Fruit or Wine Stains wet the spots 
with hartshorn. 

To BRIGHTEN A ZINC BATH TUB. — Throw ill a hand- 
ful of salt, wet with vinegar, and rub the tub with 
a flannel cloth. 

Washing. — Have plenty of boiling water, and 
to each boiler-full add two or three tablespoons of 
pulverized borax. Use some of this water for 
every tubful of clothes; use soap on the most soil- 
ed clothes and rub them on the board. Do not 
boil the clothes. Have a tub nearly full of boiling 
borax water, into which put the clothes that have 



MISCELLANEOUS KNOWLEDGE. 133 

been rubbed. Let them remain an hour, or until 
you are ready to rinse them. Rinse in clear water 
without borax. Use very little bluing. Add a tea- 
spoon of borax to each quart of starch, and it will 
keep the starch from sticking, and add to the lustre. 
Soap. — One ounce of pulverized borax, one pound 
of the best brown soap cut in small pieces, three 
quarts of water; put all in a kettle, and keep it on the 
back part of the stove until the soap is dissolved, 
stirring frequently ; it must not come to a boil. 
Use it with a piece of old soft flannel. It cleanses 
paint without injury, is better for washing clothes 
than any other, and is beneficial to the hands. 

For Chills and Fever. — Eat nine grains of 
black pepper after each meal. Try it. 

In Canning Fruit wring a towel or cloth out 
in hot water and wrap it around the jar, having 
several thicknesses at the bottom; set the jar in a 
pan and fill it with hot fruit or liquid, without fear. 

Sulphuric acid rubbed on the edges of drawers in 
a bureau or wash-stand will prevent their swelling 
in damp weather. 

Keep fresh lard in tin vessels. 

Renovating Mixture for removing grease and 
killing bed bugs. One quart of soft rain water, 
two ounces aqua ammonia, one teaspoon saltpetre, 
one ounce soap (Babbit's) finely scraped. Mix all 
and let it stand a few hours. Apply with a small 
brush to every place the bugs infest. It is certain 
death. To remove grease. Cover the grease spota 



134 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

witli the mixture, rub well with a brush or sponge, 
then wash off with clear water. It will not in- 
jure any more than water. It is nice for cleaning 
carpets. 

To Beat the Whites of eggs quickly add a 
pinch of salt. The cooler the eggs the better. 

In boiling eggs alwnys pjit them into boiling 
water. It prevents the yolk from coloring black, 

Never wash raisins to be used in sweet dishes; 
it will make the pudding heavy; wipe them with a 
dry towel. 

To brown sugar for sauce or puddings put it in 
a perfectly dry sauce pan. If the pan is the least 
bit wet the sugar will burn. 

Water used in mixing bread must be tepid ; if too 
hot the loaf will be full of holes. 

Frozen plants may be restored by sprinkling them 
with cold water, and setting them in the dark for 
twenty four hours, in a temperature of not more 
than fiftv deo^rees. 

A cloth dampened with wine and put over cakes 
will keep them fresh for a long time. 

Cure for Hay Fever. — A tablespoonful of pep- 
per vinegar taken at night, or when the chilly 
sensation is felt. 

To Remove Moth Patches. — Put a tablespoon- 
ful of flour of sulphur, or, better still, lac of sul- 
phur, into a pint bottle of rum. Apply to the 
moth patches once a day and they will disappear 
in two or three wrecks. 



MISCELLANEOUS KNOWLEDGE. 135 

Remedy for Burns. — One ounce of pulverized 
borax, oue quart of boiling water, and half an 
ounce of pulverized alum. Shake up well and 
bottle. Wrap the burn in soft linen and keep it 
constantly wet with the solution. Do not remove 
the linen until the burn is cured. 

Cure for Cholera. — Take equal parts of tinc- 
ture of cayenne pepper, tincture of opium, tinc- 
ture of rhubarb, essence of peppermint and spirits 
of camphor, and mix them well. Dose, fifteen to 
thirty drops, in a little cold water, according to 
the age of the patient and the violence of the 
symptoms repeated every fifteen minutes until re- 
lief is obtained. 

Hair should be well washed, every five or six 
weeks, in warm w^ater and one or two tablespoons 
of ammonia. Dry it thoroughly before tying — 
Brush one hundred strokes ev.ery morning with a 
stiff brush, and clip the ends once every month, 
and you will soon be well paid for your trouble. 

Cut Flowers should first be dipped in hot water, 
to wilt them, and then placed in cool water to re- 
vive them — they do not wilt so soon the second 
time. 

Pearls are kept brilliant by keeping them in 
common dry magnesia, instead of cotton wool used 
in jewel caskets. 

Burns. — Equal parts of sweet oil and coal oil will 
be found excellent for burns. 



136 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Chilblains or Frozen Feet. — Take fresh or 
rancid lard, born it till it waxes; then pour it over 
frozen snow or ice. Rub the frozen feet with it, 
and hold them to the fire. This is well worth 
trying. 

Sleeplessness can be relieved by laying a wet 
cloth on the back of the neck, with a dry cloth 
outside. 

Whooping Cough Remedy. — Mix one sliced 
lemon, half a pint of flax seed, two ounces of honey 
one quart of water, and simmer, not boil, four hours. 
Dose, one tablespoon ful four times a day, and one 
after each fit of cono^hins;. 

Bunions. — Use pulverized saltpetre and sweet 
oil. Put five cents worth of saltpetre into enough 
sweet oil to dissolve it. Shake well and rub the 
inflamed joints, night and morning. 

Smal'. Pox Cure. — One ounce of cream of tartar, 
dissolved in a pint of boiling water, and drank 
when cold, at short intervals, is a preventive as 
well as a curative — and is excellent for a rough, 
pimply face. 

Diphtheria. — A teaspoonfvd of powder of sul- 
phur, in a wineglass of water. Stir with the^??- 
ger, not with a spoon. Mix well, and use as a 
gargle, and occasionally swallow it. 



T^^ ^m H'O'Ofi- 



3p?tV"ERY family should keep a small quantity of 
fc^ chlorate of potash. There is nothing? equal 
to it for a simple ulcerated sore throat. Dissolve 
one teaspoonful in a tumbler of water, and oc- 
casionally take a teaspoonful of the solution, so as 
to gargle the throat. Nothing is better than this 
for chapped hands or a pimply face. Wash them 
in a weak solution. 

Beef Broth with Tapioca. — Cut a pound of 
lean, juicy beef into pieces, and soak for an hour 
in a quart of cold water; then put it to cook in 
the same water, and cover closely to keep in the 
steam. Simmer for two hours and strain ; if there 
was the least fat on the meat cool the broth and 
remove it from the surface. Soak a quarter of a 
cup of tapioca in a little cold water and boil it half 
an hour in the broth ; season with salt, pepper and 
a few drops of lemon juice. Serve with rice, thin 
crackers or dry toast. 

Chicken Jelly. — Pound half a chicken, bones 
and meat, until all are well softened, then cover 
with cold water and cook slowly, until the meat is 



138 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

tasteless and about two cups of the liquid is left 
in the pan. Strain and season the liquor and turn 
it into small, wet moulds; keep in a cool place, 
and, when wanted, turn out a form on a dish: gar- 
nish with sprigs of parsley; serve cold with thin 
slices of bread and butter. 

Creamed Crackers. — Split six Boston crackers; 
place them in a plate and pour boiling water over 
them. As soon as they are slightly softened pour 
off the water, sprinkle slightly with salt, and pour 
some sweet cream over them. 

Fruit Blanc Mange. — The juice of atiy fruit 
may be used; if not sweet enough add sugar. 
Mix a tablespoonful of corn starch with a little 
cold water, and stir into it half a pint of boiling 
fruit juice; cook until it thickens and then pour 
it into a wet mould. Serve cold with sweetened 
cream, to which add a little flavoring. 

Tapioca Jelly. — Soak half a cup of tapioca in 
a pint of water for four hours, then cook it in a 
double boiler until the tapioca is soft and clear 
looking. Season with only a little sugar, and 
lemon juice, and pour it into small, wet moulds. 
Serve with sweet cream. 

Iceland Moss Blanc Mange. — Wash the moss 
thoroughly in several waters, and soak it an hour. 
To a handful allow a quart of rich, sweet milk • 
put the moss in when the milk is boiling hot, and 
let it simmer until the moss is soft. Then strain, 
Bweeten, and flavor with lemon juice, and put it 



THE SICK ROOM. 139 

into wet moulds. Serve cold with cream and sug- 
ar. Iceland moss cooked in water instead of 
milk, and made thin enough to be taken as a drink, 
is soothing and nourishing, and excellent for colds 
and sore throats. 

Pearl Barley. — Wash the barley in several 
waters and tie it in a cloth loosely, so that it will 
have room to swell; boil it four hours in water 
enough to cover it, adding more as it becomes 
necessary. Serve with sweet milk. 

Barley Water is made by boiling an ounce 
of barley in a quart of water until it is reduced 
one half, when it must be strained, cooled, salted, 
and sweetened, as the patient may desire. It is 
a refreshing and soothing drink for persons suffer- 
ing with inflammation of the mucous membrane. 



^iJ.pf>j,f;^]\i:E;j^T- 



fPONGE FOR AViNTER Use. — Boil four good 
sized potatoes, until thoroughly done, in plen- 
ty of water; then take them off the stove, pour off 
the water, and, with a spoon, mash and beat the 
potatoes until they are foamy; when warm., not 
hot, put in a tablespoonful of salt, a pint of flour, 
and the potato water, which was previously poured 
off. Mix to a tolerably stiff batter; then pour in a 
teacup of warm, water in ivhich a cake or half a cake 
of compressed yeast has been dissolved. Set it 
away to rise. This will keep a week. 

Good Yeast Bread. — Measure four quarts of 
sifted flour; take out a piut of it, and place the 
remainder in the bread bowl. Mix through it, a 
tablespoonful of lard, and a very little salt, and pour 
in two pints (or two coffee cups) of sjpongefor winter 
use. Pour in enough luke-warm milk to make it 
of the right consistency; knead it thoroughly, and 
set it to rise ; in two hours knead again. Make 
into loaves — about five; grease the loaves well — not 
the pan. Set to rise in the baking pan ; when 
double the original size, they are ready for baking. 



SUPPLEMENT. 141 

When winter sponge is not conv^enient it is best 
to dissolve half a cake of compressed yeast in a 
^mtoi warm water, and stir into it enough flour to 
make a tolerably thick batter, set it to rise, and in 
an hour or two, it is ready to pour into the flour 
for bread. 

Long Breakfast Rolls. — IN'early two cups of 
sweet milk, half a cup of lard and butter mixed, 
half a cup of potato yeast, and flour enough to 
make it into douiJ:h. Let it rise over niu^ht. In the 
morning, add one beaten Qgg. Knead thoroughly 
again. With the hands make it into balls as large 
as a guinea Qgg, then roll it between the hands 
to make long rolls — three inches — place them 
close together, in even rows, in the pans. Let 
them rise until light. Bake. 

Apple Fritters. — Make a batter of one cup of 
sweet milk, two cups of flour, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, two eggs, and one table- 
spoon of sugar, with salt to taste. Heat the milk 
a little, add slowly the beaten yolks and sugar, then 
add the flour, and the whites. Stir all together, 
and throw in thin slices of nice tart apples, dipping 
the batter over them. .Drop into boiling lard, in 
spoonfuls, with a piece of apple in each, and fry 
to a li<iht brown. 

Buckwheat Cakes. Put one pint of warm 
sweet milk, and one pint of water into a stone 
crock; into which stir five cups of buckwheat 
flour; beat well until smooth, and, lastly, add one 



142 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

cup of yeast. Some persons prefer one tablespoon 
of sugar or molasses added. Set it to rise over 
night, and, if it is a little sour in the morning, add 
a pinch of soda. 

Pie Crust. — For one pie, take a double handful 
of flour, one fourth of a spoonful of salt, two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of lard, and as little water as will 
mix. Mix the lard thoroughly in the flour, before 
adding the cold water. 

MRS. w. L. s. 

Prairie Chicken. — Dress nicely, and wash tho- 
rou2:hlv, in water with a little soda in it. Fill it with 
dressing, and tie down the legs and wings ; place it 
in a steamer over hot water till it is done. Remove it 
to a dripping pan, cover it with butter, and sprinkle 
it with salt, pepper and flour; place it in the oven, 
baste it with the melted butter, and bake it a light 
brown. 

Quails are nice, if stuffed with dressing, season- 
ed with salt, pepper and butter, put in a dripping 
pan, placed in the oven, and baked a nice brown. 
They must be basted frequently. 

Steamed Chickens. — After they have been care- 
fully dressed, cut them up as for frying; place 
them in an iron pot (which must be set on top of the 
stove, not next to the blaze) with a little salt, pep- 
per and ground ginger to taste, and a coflee cup of 
water to each chicken. Let it steam until thorough- 
ly done, and, if the chicken is not very fat, add a 
little butter. Take up the chicken, and thicken 
the gravy with a little flour and cream. 



SUPPLEMENT. 143 



Mock Duck.— Take a large round steak, pound 
it well, season it with salt and pepper, spread it 
with a thick layer of dressing as for turkey, and 
then roll it up ; tie it with a cord, and place it in 
the dripping pan, with a little water. Season again 
as a roast, place it in the oven and hake, hast- 
ino- frequently. Remove the cord before sending 
it to the table. 

Beefsteak cut into small squares, rolled in beat- 
en egg, and bread crumbs, and then fried in hot 
lard, will be a palatable change. 

Baked Ham.— Select a very small ham, wash it 
off nicely, and sprinkle it with pepper. Place it 
ui a dripping pan in the oven, with a Utile water, 
and bake until done. It will take several hours ; 
—Or first boil it, and then place it in the oven long 
enough to brown the outside nicely. 

A WELL TRIED RECIPE FOR CURING FEET, PORK, MUT- 
TON, TONGUES AND HAMS.— To ouc gallon of watcr 
take one and a half pounds of salt, half a pound of 
sugar, half an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of 
potash; use only a pure article of potash ; if this can- 
not be obtained omit it altogether. Let these be 
boiled all together, until all the dirt from the sugar 
rises to the top, and is skimmed off. Then put it 
into a tub to cool, and, when cold, pour it over 
your beef or pork. The meat should be well covered 
with the pickle, and should not be put down, for at 
least two days after killing, during which time, it 
should be slightly sprinkled with powdered salt- 



144 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

petre. Meat pickled in this manner is unsurpass- 
ed for sweetness, delicacy and freshness of color. 

Sweet Pickle Beets. — Boil them in a porcelain 
kettle until thoroughly done. When cool, cut them 
in slices as for the tahle ; pour over them enough 
hot spiced vinegar to cover them. These are very 
nice and can be made in winter as wanted. 

Pickled Onions. — Take the small, silver skinned, 
white onions. Peel off the outer skin. Make a 
brine strong enough to float an Qgo;^, skim it well, 
and when it begins to cool pour it upon the onions. 
Let them stand in it (closely covered) until quite 
cold; then take them out, peel off another skin, 
and wash them in cold water. Next boil them 
in milk until tender all through, so that you can eas- 
ily pierce them with a needle ; drain off the milk; 
measure them, and to a quart of onions, allow a 
quart of the best cider vinegar. Boil in the vine- 
gar two muslin bags with broken up nutmeg and 
mace. When it has boiled, pour it hot over 
the onions in the jar. Lay one bag at the bottom, 
and one in the middle. Finish with one table- 
spoonful of salad oil, cork the jar immediately, 
and tie on a leather cover. 

CucUxMBER Pickles. — Without vinegar. Take 
nice, green, good sized cucumbers ; when you wash 
them, notice how many quarts of water it take* to 
cover them well. Then take a stone jar or keg, 
cover the bottom with grape leaves, then put a lay- 
er of cucumbers, some whole black peppers, quite 



SUPPLEMENT. 145 

a handful of fresh fennel, a few laurel leaves, if 
you have them, then a layer of cucumbers, and so 
on, until the jar is filled; cover the top with grape 
leaves, and put little sticks across to keep them 
down. Then take as many quarts of water, and 
two over, as it took to wash them. Put to each 
quart a handful of salt; then boil the water, 
set it off to cool, and when it is cool, pour it over 
the pickles; after standing in the cellar about two 
wrecks they will be nearly as sour as vinegar pick- 
les, and are excellent. The white scum that forms 
over them must always be removed. 

MRS. S. H . 

Vinegar Pickles. — Take small cucumbers, wash 
them and put them in a brine strong enough to 
float an egg; also take small, white onions, as 
many as you like — so that you can use alternate lay- 
ers of cucumbers and onions. Let them both stand 
in the brine three days ; then take them out and 
wipe them dry. Have your glass jars ready, and 
put in the bottom one grape leaf, then a layer of 
cucumbers, and then the onions ; season with 
white mustard seed, black and red peppers, a little 
fennel, fresh from the garden, a few laurel leaves 
and a very few cloves. Season every layer in this 
way, until the jar is full, then put in a few pieces 
of horse-radish and one grape leaf. Fill the jars 
with the best boilins^ cider vineo:ar. 

MRS. S. H . 

To Use up Eancid Butter.— Take the butter 
and put it into a vessel on the stove; fill it only 



146 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

half full, and loatch closely, as it will rise up when 
it gets near boiling; if necessary lift it off quickly, 
lest it should boil over and get on fire. Unless 
the butter is very old it will not rise much. Stir it 
very often. The grounds tliat settle at the bottom 
will get a light brown, when the butter is done. 
After standing a few minutes, it can be emptied in- 
to ajar; be very careful not to get the settlings 
in. It will keep a year or more and is very nice 
for baking, cooking, &c., &c. 

MRS. s. H . 

Corn Starch Blanc Mange. — Boil one pint of 
milk ; sweeten to taste. Dissolve two tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch in some cold milk, and stir in the 
boiling milk; stir constantly until thick. Flavor 
wdth vanilla, and pour into a dish or mould. 
To be eaten cold with whipped cream. 

MRS. EVA s . 

Sponge Cake. — Six eggs beaten separately, a 
saucer of sugar and a saucer of flour; beat the 
yolks and sugar well, add flour, and, last, the 
whites; stir just long enough to mix well, and no 
longer ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

MRS. EVA s . 

Tapioca Pudding. — Soak eight tablespoons of 
tapioca in one quart of warm milk till it is soft ; 
then add two tablespoons of melted butter, five 
eggs well beaten, with spice and sugar to taste. 
Bake in a buttered dish. 

MRS. EVA s . 



SUPPLEMENT. 147 

Boiled Frosting. — The whites of three eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, one large cup of granulated 
sugar moistened with four tablespoons of hot 
water ; boil the sugar briskly for ^ve minutes, or 
until it ropes when dropped from the spoon; then, 
with the left hand, pour the boiling syrup upon 
the beaten eggs, in a small stream, while beating 
with the right hand. If preferred, add one cup of 
hickory nut kernels chopped fine. 

Canned Currants. — Look them over carefully, 
stem and weigh them, allowing a pound of sugar 
to a pound of fruit; put them into a kettle, cover 
and leave them to heat slowly. Stew gently for 
twent}^ or thirty minutes, then add sugar, and 
shake the kettle occasionally to make it mix w^ith 
the fruit. Do not boil it, but keep it as hot as 
possible, until all the sugar is dissolved; pour it 
into cans, and cover it at once. 

Bottled Cider. — Take good, sweet cider, heat 
it to the boiling point, but do not boil it. Pour it in- 
to jugs or bottles, with two or three raisins in each, 
and seal them while hot. It will keep all winter, 

Sherbert. — One pine-apple, four lemons, two 
quarts of water, two teacups of sugar. Steep the 
pine-apple in the water for two hours, then strain, 
add the juice of the lemons and the sugar. Whip 
the white of five eggs, with three tablespoons of 
sugar; turn all into the freezer, and freeze at once. 
Excellent, 



KH jji^ mm- 



§ CRAPE one cake of brown Windsor soap to 
a powder; add one ounce of lemon juice, 
and one ounce of cologne. Mix well and form into 
cakes. Excellent for sunburn. 

Cold Cream. — Half an ounce of spermaceti, 
twenty grains of white wax, two ounces of pure oil 
of sweet almonds, half an ounce of pure glycerine, 
and six drops of oil of rose. Melt the iirst three 
ingredients together, and, when cooling, add the 
glycerine and oil of rose, stirring until cold. 

Best Tooth Powder. — Rub the teeth well with 
prepared chalk, and then brush them with pure 
white castile soap and tepid water. 

For Rough Skin, Hives, &c. — One ounce of 
glycerine, half an ounce of rosemary water, twenty 
drops of carbolic acid and a few drops of ottar of 
roses. 

To Whiten the Hands. — One wineglass of co- 
logne, and one wineglass of lemon juice, strained 
clear ; scrape two cakes Windsor soap to a powder, 
and mix all together in a mould. When hard it is 
fit for use, and will be found excellent for whiten- 
ing the hands. 



FOR THE TOILET. 149 

A Splendid Bath Powder. — Two and a half 
drachms of camphor, four ounces orris root, and 
sixteen ounces starch, reduced to impalpable pow- 
der ; tie in a coarse muslin bag". 

For Heat. — A teaspoon of carbolic acid in a 
pint of rose water. 

A Fine Cologne. — One gallon of deodorized alco- 
hol, one ounce of oil of lavender, one ounce of oil of 
orange, two drachms of oil of cedrat, one drachm 
of oil of orange flowers, one drachm of oil of rose, 
and one drachm of oil of ambergris ; mix well and 
keep in a cool place three weeks. 

Splendid Toilet Water. — One drachm each of 
oil of bergamot, lavender and lemon, ten drops each 
of oil of jasmine and rose and essence of ambergris, 
and one pint of spirits of wine. Mix and keep well 
closed, in a cool place, for two months, when it will 
be ready for use. 

Glycerine For the Toilet. — Two ounces dis- 
tilled water, one ounce glycerine, one ounce alco- 
hol, half an ounce tincture of benzoin, and one 
grain of carmine. 



^^^T% ^]i<)^if;s<\%- 



J^UCKWHE AT Batter spread over grease spots 
^^ on a carpet, and let remain until drj-, and 
then wiped off, will take out the grease nicely. 
Repeat the process if necessary. 

Mercurial Ointment, made soft with coal oil, is 
certain death to hed-hugs. Oil of cedar is, per- 
haps, a pleasanter remedy. 

Apples keep well in winter, if placed in barrels 
or boxes, with a layer of autumn leaves alternating 
with a layer of apples, until the box is full. They 
should be put in the cellar 07ilt/ in time to escape 
freezing. 

A Pan of Hot Water set in the oven will pre- 
vent cakes and bread from scorching. 

Orange and Lemon Peel. — Dry and pound it, 
and keep in corked bottles. 

Tea should be ground like coffee, or crushed, 
before pouring boiling water on it. 

Articles made of Zephyr, are cleaned by rub- 
bing in flour, or magnesia, changing often. Shake 
off the flour and hang the article in the open air a 
short time. 



USEFUr. KNOWLEDGE. 151 

Wash Boilers are best cleaned, by washing 
thenn with sweet milk, or greasing them with 
lard. 

Fine Starch is made by wetting two or three 
tablespoons of starch smooth with a little cold 
water, then pouring on a quart of boiling water, 
stirring rapidly all the time: place it on the stove, 
and let it boil about five minutes, stirring frequent- 
ly; add a little salt, a piece of butter, a piece of a 
sperm candle, or a little coal oil. 

Cold Starch is best made with soap suds in- 
stead of clear water, using toilet soap. Use one 
teaspoon (not heaping nor level) of starch to one 
pint of water. 

Irons that are rusty can be improved by rub- 
bing w^ell, the night before using, with coal oil. If 
necessary, rub them over salt and powdered bath 
brick mixed. 

Best Washerwomen do not use cold starch for 
shirts and collars; they hang them on the line be- 
fore being starched, and, after they are dry, starch 
them in very thin hot starch, roll them up and lay 
them aside, until ready to be ironed. 

Whitewash for Cellars. — One ounce of car- 
bolic acid to one gallon of whitewash, or add cop- 
peras to whitewash until it is yellow. Copperas is 
a fine disinfectant, and drives away vermin. 

Parsley can be kept fresh by putting it into a 
strong boiling brine, and then hanging it up and 
drying it in bunches, in a dry cellar or store room, 
with blossom downward. 



152 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Cabbage for Winter use should be buried in 
rows two and two, not quite touching; each two 
one or two feet apart, root downward. In this 
way, none are exposed except those to be taken up. 

In broiling meat, when the coals blaze up too 
much, sprinkle salt on them. 

Zinc can be best cleaned by rubbing fresh lard 
on it with a cloth, and then rubbing it dry. 

Grease can be removed from garments by dis- 
solving one tablespoon of salt in four tablespoons 
of alcohol, — shaking the mixture well and apply- 
ing it with a sponge. 

Cashmere is best cleaned by washing it in hot 
suds, with borax in the water, rinsing in bluing 
wator, made very blue, and ironing while damp. 

RcBBONS should be washed in cold soap-suds, and 
not rinsed. 

Butter can be kept nicely, without ice, b}^ in- 
verting a large crock (not glazed) over the dish of 
butter, and wrapping the crock with a wet cloth, 
with a little water in the dish of butter. 



VALUE OF FOREIGN MONEY IN 

U. S. CURRENCY. 

One pound sterling of England, $ 4.84 

" guinea, 5.05 

'' crown '' " 1.21 

'' shillino- '' . " .22 



USEFUL KNOWLEDGE. 



153 



XJne napoleon of France, 
Five francs, " 

One franc, " 

" florin, 

" thaler of Saxony, 
" ofuilder of ITetherlands, 
*' ducat of Austria, 
" doubloon of Spain, 
'' real, 
Five rubles of JRussia, 
One ruble, 
" franc of Belgium, 
" ducat of Bavaria, 
" franc of Switzerland, 
" crown of Tuscany. 



3.84 

.93 

.18J 

48J 

.08 

.40 

2.28 

15.54 

.05 

3.95 

.75 

.18J 

2.27 

18i 

1.05J 



WEIGHTS TO THE BUSHEL. 



58 pounds 


of shelled corn 


make 1 busii 


56 


' rye. 


u a 


46 


' barley. 


a a 


60 


' wheat. 


a a 


70 


' corn on the cob. 


a a 


52 


' buckwheat, 


a a 


32 


' oats. 


a u 


20 


' bran. 


a a 


45 


* clover seed. 


a a 


60 


' timothy, '^ 


a a 


56 


' flax, ' " 


a a 


45 


' hemp, " 


u a 



154 



ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 



14 pounds of blue-grass seed, 



make 1 bushel. 



60 




Irish potatoes, " " 


50 




sweet potatoes, *' " 


57 




onions, " " 


62 




beans, " " 


24 




dried apples, " " 


33 




dried peaches peeled, " " 


36 




" unpeeled, " " 



OUR PRESIDENTS. 



Geo. Washington, Va., 
Jno. Adams, Mass. 
Thos. Jefferson, Va., 
Jas. Madison, Va., 
Jas. Monroe, Va., 
Jno. Q. Adams, Mass., 
Andrew Jackson, Tenu., 
Martin Van Buren, N. Y. 
Wni. H. Harrison, O., 
Jno. Tyler, Va., 
Jas. K. Polk, Tenn., 
Zachary Taylor, La., 
Millard Fillmore, N Y., 
Franklin Pierce. N. H., 
Jas. Buchanan, Pa., 
Abraham Lincoln, 111., 
Andrew Johnson, Tenn., 
U. S. Grant, Illinois, 
R. B. Hayes, Ohio, 
James A. Garfield, Ohio, 



Born. 

Feb. 22, 1732. 
Oct. 29, 1751. 
Apr. 2, 1743. 
March 16, 1751. 
April 28, 1758. 
July 11, 1767. 
March, 15, 1767. 
Dec. 5, 1782. 
Feb. 9, 1773. 
March 29, 1790. 
[Nov. 2, 1795, 
Nov. 24, 1784. 
Jan. 7, 1800. 
Nov. 23, 1804. 
iApr. 22, 1791. 
'Feb. 15, 1809. 
Dec. 29, 1808. 
April 27, 1822. 
Oct. 4, 1822. 
Nov. 19, 1831. 



Died. 



Ruled. 



Dec. 14, 1899. 


8 years. 


July 4, 1826. 


4 " 


July 4, 1826. 


8 " 


June 28, 1836. 


8 " 


July 4, 1831. 


8 " 


Feb, 23, 1848. 


4 '« 


June 8, 1845. 


8 " 


July 24, 1862. 


4 " 


April 4, 1841. 


1 month. 


Jan'y 17, 1862. 


3 yrs, 11 mos. 


June 15, 1849. 


4 '* 


July 9, 1851. 


1 " 4 mos. 


March 8, 1874. 


2 " 8 " 


Oct. 8, 1869. 


4 *' 


June 1, 1868. 


4 *' 


April 15, 1865. 


4 " Imo., lids 


July 31, 1875. 


3 " 10mos.,19ds 
8 " 

4 " 





m^y^ 



Almond Cake, Mrs. M. E. Caldwell 85 

Angel Cake, Mrs. C. V. Jaquith, 95 

Ants, To get rid of, ^ ^^ 

Apples, a-la-Turque, ^^^ 

Apple Batter Pudding 1^^ 

Apple Butter, Mrs. Geo. Levings, ^4 

Apple Charlotte. Snow, 1^^ 

Apple Custard Pie, ^^^ 

Apple Dumplings, Baked, Boiled, 110 

Apple Fritters, 1"^^ 

Apple, (green) Pie, Meringue, • US 

Apples, to keep, ^^^ 

Apple Sauce, • • ^^ 

Asparagus Omelette ^^ 

Aunt Angle's Black or Fruit Cake, Mrs. William Harding, 92 

Bachelor's Buttons, 100 

Bake Day Pudding, 109 

Baked Beans, ^^^ 

Baked Ham, : 1^3 

Baking Powder Biscuits, Mesdames Matthias and Brown, 79 

Baked Trout^or Blue Fish, 12 

Barley, Pearl 1^^ 

Barley Water 139 

Bath Powder, 1^9 

Bath Tub, to brighten, 132 

Batter Pudding, Steamed, 109 

Beans and Oysters, 20 

Bed Bugs, to destroy, 133, 149 

Beef Broth, with tapioca, 137 

Beef, Dry, and to Corn, and to Preserve, 38, 40 



156 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK 

Beef, Roast 36 

Beefsteak, a-la-Mock-Duck, 38 

Beefsteak, Fried, Broiled, Mrs. Hamburger, 36, 37 

Beefsteak, Fried, . - ' 143 

Beefsteak, Hamburg, Mrs. Hamburger 36 

Beets, Plain, Sweet Pickle 125, 144 

Berry Short Cake, 97 

Birds, Bread Sauce, for, 49, 55 

Bits of Hominy, Meat etc., 23 

Blackberry Cordial 71, 72 

Black Cake, Mrs. M. P. Jaquith, 92 

Black Cashmere, to clean, 152 

Bombay Pudding,. 105 

Boston Pound Cake, Mrs. S. Hamburger, 90 

^Jottled Cider, 148 

Brandy Peaches, Mrs. Hamburger, 67 

Bread, Mrs. Tanner, 74, 75, 140 

Bread and Butter Pudding 105 

Bread Omelette, 28 

Breakf ist and Supper, 21 

Breakfast Cakes, Rolls, 23, 81, 141 

Breakfast Dish, and Stew, 22, 23 

Brown Bread, Steamed, 77 

Brushes, 6 

Buckwheat Cakes 80, 141 

Bunions, to cure, 136 

Bunn Padding, 105 

Bunns,. 78 

Burns, Remedy for. ' 135 

Cabbage, stuffed. Miss Kate Rudy 122 

Cakes— To keep fresh 82, 134 

Candy — Horehound, Molasses, ! Sugar, Black Crook, Co- 
coanut, Cream, Lemon, Butter Scotch, Splendid,. 127, 128 

Canned Cherries 69 

Canned Corn, Mrs. Sheppard, Mrs. Levings, 124 

Canning Large Fruits 68, 133 

Caramel Cake, 88 

Cauliflower 125 

Celerv Flavoring, 56 



INDEX. 157 

Celery, Stewed, Sauce, 54, 126 

Celery Slaw 123 

Cement, 130 

Chamois Skin, to wash, 131 

Champagne Cider— Sweet, 73 

Charlotte Russe, Mrs. W. S. Harding, 1 1 1 

Cheap Wine for Cooking, 73 

Cheese Omelette, 29 

Cheese Relish, 30 

Cherry Bounce, 72 

Chicken, a-la-mode, Mrs. C. W. Levings, 48 

Chicken Jelly 137 

Chicken Young— Fricassee, Steamed 48, 142 

Chicken Salad, 52, 53 

Chilblains, how to relieve, 136 

Chili Sauce, 51, 60, 61 

Chills and Fever, 133 

Chocolate, 32, 128 

Chocolate Custard, Caramels, 106, 128 

Cholera Cure, 135 

Chow Chow, 61, 63 

Christmas Pudding, 106 

Citron Melon Preserves, 67 

Cocoa, 32 

Cocoanut Rose Cake, Mrs. M. E. Caldwell, 85, 95 

Cocoanut Pie, Mrs. G. S. Brecount, Drops, 119, 127 

Coffee, 32 

Coffee Cake, 82, 84 

Cold Sauce, • 50 

Cold Slaw, 122 

Cologne, 149 

Cookies, Mesdames Matthias, Levings, Harding,.. 97, 98, 163 

Corn Bread,. 79, 81 

Corn Fritters, 25 

Corn Oysters, Mrs. J. C. Jones, 123 

Corn Starch Blanc Mange, 146 

Corn Starch Cake, Merangue Pudding, . 93, 108 

Cottage Pudding, 104 

Crab Apple, Siberian, preserves, 67 



158 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Creamed Biscuits, 76 

Cream Cake, Mrs. Connelly's, 88 

Cream Cake, No. 2, Mrs. W. H 89 

Creamed Crackers, 138 

Cream Oysters on Half Shell, 16 

Cream or Milk Toast, 21 

Cream Pie, Nos. 1 and 2, 115 

Cream Puffs, Mrs. Hamburger, 80 

Cream Sponge Cake, Mrs. C. W. Levings, 83 

Croquets, Mrs. Kate Rudy,. 27 

Crumb Cakes, 80 

Cucumber Catsup, Mrs. J. 11. Matthias, 60 

Cucumber Pickles, 58, 144 

Cucumber Salad, Fried, 25 

Curing Hams, Caring Feet, Pork, Mutton & Tongue,. .45, 143 

Currants, Canned, 148 

Currant Cake, Mrs. S. S. Levings, 93 

Currant or Cherry Sauce, Mrs. C. W. Levings, 57 

Currant Wine, 72 

Custard, Cake, Pudding, Pie, 90, 106, 1 17 

Custard, Chocolate, 106 

Cut Flowers, to keep, 135 

Danish Pudding, Mrs. Kate Rudy, 103 

Delicate Cake, Mrs. M. P. Jacquith, 91 

Delmonico Sauce, 27 

Diphtheria, Remedy for, 136 

Dolly Varden Cake", Mrs. W. S. Harding, 89 

Double-quick Pudding, Mrs. J. C. Jones, 103 

Doughnuts, French, Mrs. C. V. Jaquith, Mrs. Brecount, • • 99 

Drawers, to keep from swelling, 133 

Drawn Butter Sauce, 55 

Dressing for Fowls, Mrs. S. Hamburger, 47 

Dried Yeast, Mrs. Joe Payne 74 

Drinks 32 

Drop Cakes, 100 

Dry Bread, Biscuits, Cakes, 23 

Dumplings, for soup, Mrs. S. Hamburger 10 

Eggs. Omelette, Baked, Fried, for lunch. Scrambled, 
° Scalloped, To boil, 27, 30,134 



INDEX. 159 

English mixed pickles 61 

Eve's Padding, 107 

Fancy Desserts, Ill 

Farmer's Padding, 109 

Feather Cake, Mrs. M. P. Jacquith, 92 

Fig Cake, Mrs. J. H. Matthias, Mrs. M. P. Jaqaith 86 

Fig Padding, Mrs. M. P. Jacqaith 103 

Fillet-de-boeuf, Mrs. Hambarger, 36 

Fish, Boiled, Fried, Broiled, Mrs. F. M. Patterson, .... 12, 13 

Flannel Cakes, Rolls 78, 81 

Flies, to destroy 132 

Foam Saace, 52 

Foreign Coin, 152 

Fowls, 46 

French Croquettes, 28 

Fresh Peaches, 66 

Fricadelles, Mrs. Hamburger, 26 

Fricassee Chicken, Calf's Tongue, Young Chicken, 44, 48 

Frozen Pudding, Plants, Feet, 107, 134, 136 

Fruit Cake, Blanc Mange, Mrs. Hamburger, 84, 91, 138 

Fruit, To Spice, 64, 67 

Furniture Polish, 130 

Ginger Cakes, Snaps, Mrs. S. S. Levings, Mrs. Matthias,98, 99 

Glycerine for the Toilet, 149 

Gooseberry Catsup, ." 57 

Goose, To Roast a, Mrs. Hamburger 47 

Gold Cake, Mrs. M. P. Jacquith, 88 

Graham Bread, Gems, Mush,-. 22, 77, 80, 81 

Grape Butter, Spiced, 68 

Grape Wine, 72 

Grated Ham Sandwiches, 29 

Grease Spots, To Remove, 133 

Green Corn Pudding 123 

Green Tomatoes, Fried, 25 

Hair, Care of. 135 

Ham, Baked, Stuffed, Sandwiches, Omelette, 29, 30, 44 

Ham, Boiled, Mrs. Brecount 45 

Hands to whiten 148 

Hash, Mrs. Brown, 24 



160 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Hay Fever, To cure, 134 

Hen's Nest 113 

Hickory Nut Cake, Mrs. Brecount, 94 

Hives, 148 

Hop Yeast, Dry, Mrs. Dr. Smith, 74 

Ice Cream, Mrs. Geo. Hunt, IH, 112 

Ice Cream Cake, Mrs. Caldwell, 84 

Iceland Moss Blanc Mange, 138 

Iced Tea 33 

Icing, Boiled, 86, 90, 147 

Irisii Potato Pudding, 108 

Iron Ware, 6 

Jam — Blackberry, Raspberry or Strawberry, 70 

Jellies — Apple, Cider, Crab Apple, Currant, Grape, 

Quince, Wine 69, 70, 71 

Jumbles, Mrs. Jacquith and others, 99, 100 

Kentucky Biscuits, 81 

Lady Fingers, 100 

Lamb's Liver, 41 

Lard, How to keep, 133 

Lemon Butter, Lemon Drops, Lemon Extract, .. ..57, 68, 129 

Lemon Gelatine, Mrs. Wm. Harding, 71 

Lemon Sauce, Paste, 50, 96 

Lemon Pie, Mesdames Payne, Jacquith, Matthias, Shep- 

pard and Levings, 1 16, 117 

Lemon Pudding, Meringue, Mrs. Hamburger, 102, 107 

Loaf Cake, Mrs. M. P. Jacquith, 92 

Luncheon Cake, 78 

Lunch for Traveling, 45 

Maccaroons, 101 

Maccaroni, Baked, Boiled, 124, 125 

Mangoes, 60 

Marble, To clean, 132 

Mayonnaise Sauce, 54, 56 

Meats, 35 

Meat Scallops 27 

Meerschaum Pipe, To cleanse, 131 

Mince Meat, 1 14 

Minced Meat on Toast, 27 



INDEX. 161 

Miscellaneous Knowledge, 130 

Mirrors, Where not to hang, 132 

Mock Duck, 143 

Moth Patches, To remove,. 134 

Mush,. 22 

Mushrooms, Stewed, 124 

Muskmelons, Preserved 65 

Mustard, To mix, Mrs. C. W. Levings, 55 

Noodles, How to make, 7 

Oatmeal, Soup. 22, 8 

Orange Cake, Mrs. Brecount, Pudding, 94, 107 

Orange Gelatine, Pudding, Cream, 71, 107, 1 12 

Ostrich Plumes, To cleanse 131 

03^sters and Beans 20 

Oysters, Broiled, Panned, Stewed, 10, 17 

Oyster Omelette, Salad, Macaroni, 19, 125 

Oysters on shell. Scalloped, Fried, On toast, .15, 17, 18, 19 

Oyster Soup, Mrs. Magner, 9, 15 

Pansies, 131 

Pastiy for pies, Mrs. Wm. Harding, 114 

Parker House Rolls, 76 

Parsnep Fritters, 26 

Pawn House 22 

Peaches, Spiced, Preserved, Brandy, 65, 67, 68 

Pearls, To keep^ brilliant 135 

Pearl Barley, 139 

Pears, Preserved, 66 

Peppermint Drops, 127, 129 

Pickles 50 

Pickled Tongue, Mrs. Hamburger, 40 

Pickled Onions, 144 

Pie Crust, 142 

Pies, 114 

Pine Apple pie 1 18 

Plain 'J'oast, Mrs. Brown, 21 

Plum Cake, 93 

Pone- De-Tat, ]\Irs. K. Rudy 121 

Pop Corn Balls 129 

Pop Overs, 81 



162 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Potato Ralls,. 29 

Potato Edging for Tongues,. 41 

Potato P.incakos, Mrs. Il.inibnrger, 26 

Potatoes, Baked, Whipped, Mashed, Scallopped, 120, 121 

Potato Puddings, 108 

Pot ato Salad, 50 

Prairie Chickens, 142 

Puddings, IC2 

Pddding, A nice 10!) 

Pudding Sauce, •''I 

PiiffP.iste,. 114 

Piift" Pudding 110 

Pumpkin Pie, ^Irs. S. S. Levings, 117 

Presidents, Table of. l':4 

Quails 142 

Quinces, Preserved whole, 06 

Quince Coidial, 72 

Raisins, About washing, 134 

Raisin Pie, 118 

Rancid Butter, To use 14.5 

Refrigerator, To purify, 131 

Renovating Mixture, 133 

Ribbon Cake, 90 

Roast Turkey, Goose, Mrs. Hamburger, 4f), 47 

Rough Skin, 148 

Rusk, 78 

Salad Dressing, Mrs. M. Jacquith, 51, 52 

Salt Rising Yeast, 74, 75 

Sand Tarts 100 

Sauce for Puddings, £0, 52 

Sauce for Salads, ]\Irs. Rudy, 50 

Sauces — Rhubarb, Celery, Horse Radish, 50, 51 

Sausage, 44 

Scotch Cookies, and Cakes 98, 99 

Scotcii Stew, 21 

Seal Brown Cake, 83 . 

Sherbert, 147 

Sick Room, 137 



INDEX. 163 

Silver Cake, Mrs. M. P. Jacqnith, 88 

Silver Polish, 131 

Sleeplessness, To rel ie ve, 136 

Sin.ill Cakes and Cookies, 97 

Small Pox Cure 136 

Smoked I lalibut, 13 

Snow Cake 84, 88 

Snow Pudding, Mrs. Jacquith, 103 

Soap 133 

Soda Biscuits, ''^ 

Soda Cream 34 

Soups— Barley, Chicken, Corn, Farina, French, Green Pea, 
Noodle, Oatmeal, Tomato and Oyster, Mrs. Hambur- 
ger, 7, 8, 1 1 

Soups— Tomato, Oyster, Mrs. Magner, 9 

Sponge Cake, 82, 83 

Sponge for Winter use, 140 

Sponge Roll 83 

Stains, To remove, 132 

Steamed Chicken, 142 

Stone Ware, 6 

Stove, To keep from rusting, 132 

Succotash, 123 

Sugar Drops, 100 

Sugar, To brown for sauce, 134 

Suet Pudding, Mrs. Jacquith, Mrs. Rudy, 103 

Sweetbreads, Fried, Stewed, Boiled, 42, 43 

Sweet Pickles, 64, 65 

Sweet Potatoes, 121 

Sweet Potato Pudding, 108 

Taffy 129 

Tapioca. Cream, Jelly, Pudding, 112, 138, 146 

Tea, 33, 150 

Tin Ware. 5 

Toilet Water 149 

Tomatoes. Stewed, Scalloped, Stuffed, Baked, 122, 123 

Tomato Catsup, Mrs. Levings and others, 57, 59, 62 

Tomato Omelette,. 23 

Tomato Pickles 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 65 



164 ILLINOIS COOK BOOK. 

Tongne, Stewed, 41 

Tom:ito Soy,.. 62 

Tripe-a-l:i-cieole, Stewed, 48 

Toin.ilo Pies, 119 

Utensils for the kitchen. 5 

Vanill.-i Extract, 66 

Veal steak, cutlets, salad, 38, 55 

Veal Omelette, Mrs, Brocoimt, 39 

Veal Patties, Mrs. C, W, Levings, 39 

Vegetables, 120 

V<mison, Steak, Roast, Gravy, Pie, 43, 44 

Velvet Cake, 93 

Vienna Rolls, Mrs. Magner,. 70 

Vinegar Pickles,. 145 

Washing Fluid, and how to wash, 130, 132 

Weights and Measures, Table of, 4 

Whipped Cream, Miss Anna Caldwell, 112 

White Cake, Mrs. Harding and others, 87 

White Mountain Cake 84, 86 

Whites of egss, to beat quickly, 134 

Wino Jelly, Mrs. AVm. Harding,. 1] 

Wine Sauce, 54 

Wooden Ware ; 5 

Zamtiftige Tarte, Mrs. Hamburger 91 



