
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



SCHLESINGERLDKARV 



RS niDT n 





Digitized t 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



il 



^0 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE COMPLETE 

BREAD, m AND CRACKER 

BAKER. 



T'wo FJiJJEtrns. 



PART i. 



The Science and Art of Baking, 



rr^-i^ 



CHICAGO : 

J. Thompson Gill, Manager Confectioner and Baker Publishing Co. 

1881. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 






0\ 

r. 



Entered According to Act of Congress, to the year 1881, by the 

CONFECTIONER AND BAKEK PUBLISHING CO., 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. D. C. 



3" 



ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 



PRESS OF 

S. I. BRADBURY &: SONS, 
78 Fifth Ave.. Chicago. 



stereotyped by 

Chicago Stereotype Works, 

Chicago, HI. 



# \ 






Digitized by LjOOQIC 



PEEFACB. 



In presenting this work to the trade, and to the public 
generally, the publisher makes nopretentions to originality 
beyond a judicious selection of materials, aiid an arrange- 
ment of the same convenient for handy reference. The 
subject matter in the first part epitomizes the best ideas 
of the most skilled scientists and artisans in the profession ; 
while the recipes in Part II are those in practical every 
day use in the leading manufactories and kitchens of this 
and other countries. The aim has been to make a practical 
work — one suited for every day life— and not a book fitted 
only for Royal households and wealthy establishments. 
For these latter there are books in abundance; but the 
publisher is unacquainted with any other work covering a 
similar field with the present. 

The arrangement of matter has been made as simple as 
possible. Part I contains a complete elucidation of the 
scientific principles underlying the bread-making pro- 
cesses; the various operations of mixing; a description of 
the different materials employed in the bakery, and the 
proper manner of selecting and using the same. Part II 
is devoted exclusively to the formulse for making bread, 
cakes and crackers, of which there are over fifteen hundr. d 
different kinds (not including pastry-cakes and tarts.) In 
writing these recipes a convenient method has been adopted 
of placing* the proportions and ingredients at the head, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



4 PREFACE. 

followed by special memoranda: As the rules of mixing 
are ^enero^ and not special, the aim is to make proficient 
workmen by instilling these rules in a general manner, as 
is done in Part I, and not by needlessi^ repetitions under 
each recipe, a cumbrous though very common method. 

To the experienced workman no advice that we could 
give, would be worthy of more than cursory notice ; but 
we strongly recommend the apprentice and young house- 
keeper to study thoroughly Part I, before proceeding to 
practical work, even if it takes considerable time and close 
application. They may then begin work by mixing and ■ 
baking the simpler forms of cakes, gradually progressing to 
the more intricate processes of bread and cracker making. 
By so doing any one with even an ordinary education can 
become in a short time quite proficient in the.art 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER I. 
A Short-History of the Baker's Art 7 

CHAPTER II. 
The Chemistry of Bread Making 19 

CHAPTER HI. 
The Science and Art of Bread Baking 3S 

CHAPTER IV. 
Wheat and Wheaten Flour 61 

CHAPTER V. 
Selection of Wheaten Flour— Other Cereals 66 

CHAPTER VI. 
Yeast and Its Preparation 79 

CHAPTER VII. 
Butter, Sugar, Eggs and Other Ingredients Used in the 

Bakery — Fruits and Fiavorings 90 

CHAPTER VIII. 
Icing and Ornamentation — Preparation and Use of 

Colors 109 

CHAPTER IX. 
Implements and Machinery for Baking 121 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CHAPTEE I. 

A SHORT HISTORY OF THE BAKER'S ART. 

Bread In the Early A^es of the World — In the Stone Period— 
Remains of Pre-Historic Bread at Robenhausen and Wangen 
—Material and Form of the Bread — How Baked — ^Bread in 
the Bible — Leavened and Unleavened Bread — Leavened Bread 
in China— Process in Egypt— EgyptiMi Bread and Bakers— 
Developement m Greece — Various Articles Used for Making 
Bread— Lydian Bakers — Skill of the Phoenician Bakers — The 
White Bread of Athens —Form and Size of Loaves — ObelisB — 
Introduction of the Art Into Rome— Pistores — Saccarii and Ca- 
tabolenses- Public Bake-Houses in the Time of Augustus— The 
Bakeries and Ovens of Pompeii — Cribanos — The Art in the Mid- 
dle Ages— In England— In Northern Europe— In France- 
Leaven and the Introduction of Yeast — According to Pliny, 
Yeast First Used in France — Parisian Bakers — Scotch Methods 
— Modem Improvements and Products — Bread — Ship's Bread — 
Army, Navy and Pilot Bread — Thin Captain's — Blisters — Bis- 
cuits and Crackers— Difference in tne Use of the Ttrms, Here 
and Abroad— Origin of Biscuits— Biscotin — Tea Biscuits — Cake 
and Cakes — Buns— Cracknels — Their Origin and Varieties — 
Cream Crackers — Crumpets — Drops — Gems — Jumbles — How 
They Were Originally Made — Macaroons, Massepains and Rat- 
afias — ^^Meringues— Nougat— Nic-Nacs — Rusks— Snaps and Nuts 
— The Name First Confined to Molasses Goods— Cause of 
Their Crispness — Liability to Moisture — Origin of "Nuts" — 
Wafers and Waferettes— Various Other Products — Where Ex- 
plained. 

The art of baking, as of most of the arts of primary im- 
portance, proceeds the period of history, being involved in 
the obscurity of the early ages of the human race. Exca- 
vations conducted on the site of some of the numerous 
lake dwellings of Switzerland have resulted in the discovery 
of abundant evidence that the art of making bread was 
practiced by our pre-historic ancestors as early as the Stone 
Period. Not only have stones for pounding meal and bak- 
ing bfead been discovered, but bread itself in large quanti- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



8 SHORT HISTORY OF THE BAKER^S ART. 

ties has been disintered, preserved by being carbonized in 
the fires which frequently destroyed the pile-dwellings of 
the primitive inhabitants of the world. At Bobenhausen, 
Meisskomer discovered 8 lbs. of bread, a weight which 
would correspond with about 40 lbs. of newly baked bread. 
At Wangen there has been discovered "actual baked bread 
or cake made of crushed corn, precisely similar to that 
found about the same time by M. Meisskomer at Boben- 
hausen. Of course it had been burned or charred, and 
thus these interesting specimens have been preserved to 
this day. The form of these cakes is somewhat round 
and about 1 to IJ inches in diameter. The dough did not 
consist of meal, but of grains of corn more or less crushed. 
In some specimens the halves of grains of barley are plainly 
discernible. The under side of thesp cakes are sometimes 
flat, sometimes concave, and there appears no doubt that 
the mass of dough was baked by being laid on hot stones 
and covered over with glowing ashes. *' 

The very early mention of bread in written history 
further bears out the great antiquity of the art of baking. 
Bread is first specially mentioned in Genesis (xviii. 5) when 
Abraham wishing to entertain the three angels on the 
plains of Mamre, offered to "fetch a morsel of bread;" 
and the operation of baking is immediately thereafter 
alluded to in the instruction to Sarah, his wife, to " make 
ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and 
make cakes upon the hearth." About the same time, (say 
B. 0. 2500,) when in the city of Sodom, Lot entertained 
two angels, " he made them a feast, and did bake un- 
leavened bread, and they did eat." (Genesis xix. 3). It 
may be inferred from the mention of unleavened bread 
that, in those patriarchal times, the two great classes of 
bread were generally known and used. This, however, 
may not have been the case, since unleavened bread seems 
to have been held in higher esteem by the sacred historians. 
The employment of leaven, however, to lighten bread, is 
without doubt of considerable antiquity. It is probable 
the Chinese may have been the first to make leavened 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SHORT HISTOBY OF THE BAKEB^S ABT. 9 

ir- 

bread. Be this as it may, we know that the Egyptians, 
in the time of Moses, understood the art, and that baking 
was carried to a high degree of perfection in this country, 
which cook the lead in the arts of civilized life. The Egypt- 
ians baked cakes and loaves of many varieties and shapes, 
in which they employed several kinds of flour, and furth- 
ermore flavored their bread with various aromatic ingredi- 
ents. The chief baker of Pharaoh, who was in prison 
along with Joseph, doubtless pursued his occupation in its 
essential features, in the same way as bakers do at the pres- 
ent day. 

Excellence in the art of baking traveled with the march 
of civilization, from ancient Egypt into Greece, and the 
allusions to bread in the works of the classic authors are 
very numerous. In the Deipnosophists of Athenseus 
mention is made of no less than sixty-two varieties of bread 
as known among the ancient Greeks, and minute descrip- 
tions of many of them are given. They employed in the 
making of bread a great many kinds of grain besides wheat 
or barley; such as rye, millet (which contains but little 
nourishment), panic (which contains still less), sesame, 
olyra, spelt, rice, tiphe, and a soft sort of grain from Ethio- 
pia, called orindion. Several other substances were like- 
wise used for the same purpose, not for the sake of adulter- 
ation, but either to improve the taste, or for reasons of 
economy; such as the root of the lotos, and perhaps of the 
day-lily, dried and reduced like wheat to flour; and the 
root of the corn-flag, which was previously boiled, and for 
the sake of communicating a sweet taste to the bread, 
would appear to have been mixed with the dough, as the 
meal of the potato is in modern times. Another ingredient 
often mixed with bread was the pulpy seed of the Star of 
Bethlehem ; while the seed of the pepper-wort was some- 
times sprinkled over cakes. Among the Thracians about 
the river Strymon, they made bread from the flour of the 
water-caltron, a prickly root of a triangular form, which 
now abounds about Venice, where it is sold commonly in 
the market places, and roasted for the table in hot embers. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



10 SHOBT HISTORY OF THK BAKER'S ART. 

— • ■ 

The seeds of the garden poppy were also used in bread 
making, perhaps like carraway seed with us. In Syria it is 
reported they made a kind of bread of mulberries which 
caused the hair of those who habitually fed on it, to fall off. 

Although ini the establishments of the wealthy bread was 
usually made by the women of the family, whether servile 
or free, the art of the baker seems early to have been prac- 
ticed as a separate business at Athens, by foreigners. The 
Lydian^bakers for example, like those of Austria among us, 
enjoyed considerable celebrity, as did likewise the Cappa- 
docians and Phoenicians, the art of the last having been 
able, it is said, to vary the quality of the loaf every day in 
the year. 

It would require a voluminous treatise to even enumerate 
the various products made thus early by the baker, since 
fashion appears to have been constantly varying the mate- 
rials, the forms, and the appellations of the loaves. Upon 
the whole, however, the bread sold in the market place of 
Athens was esteemed the whitest ^nd most delicate in 
Greece; for the Rhodians speak partially of the produce of 
their own ovens, supposing they were bestowing on it the 
highest compliment when they said it was not inferior to 
that of Athens. The dimensions of loaves depended, of 
course, on the object of the baker, and varied from that of 
the smallest rolls, prepared for people of delicate appetites, 
to those of the enormous obelice^ sometimes containing up- 
wards of three bushels of flour, borne in procession at the 
feast of Dionysos. 

We learn from Pliny (Nat. Hist, xviii, 28) that profes- 
sional bakers were first introduced into Rome from Greece, 
at the close of the war with Perseus, king of Macedon, 
about 150 B. C. As these bakers had handmills besides 
their ovens, they still continued to be called Platorea, from 
the ancient practice of bruising the corn in a mortar ; and 
their bake-houses were denominated, pisforice. By the 
practical Romans the baking trade was formed into a kind 
of incorporation or guild, with especial privileges and im- 
munities attached to the calling. Public bakeries were dis- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SHORT HISTORY OF THE BAKER'S ART. 11 

tributea throughout the city, to which slaves were assigned 
for performing the heavier and more disagreeable tasks con- 
nected with the occupation. Grain was delivered into pub- 
lic granaries by enrolled Saccarii^ and it was distributed ta 
the bakers by a corporation called Catabolenses, No separ- 
ate mills for grinding grain then existed, it being pounded 
and sifted in the bakeries. A special magistrate was ap- 
pointed to take cognizance of every matter connected with 
the management of the public bakeries. In the time of 
the Emperor Augustus there were no fewer than 329 public 
bake-houses in Rome; almost the whole of which were in 
the hands of the Greeks who long continued the only per- 
sons in that city acquainted with the art of making good 
bread. 

Of the form and structure of a baker^s establishment we 
may acquire some conception /rom the ruins of Pompeii, 
where the mills, the ovens, the kneading troughs, small 
and great, would appear to have been sometimes of stone,, 
though generally perhaps of wood. When the dough had 
been properly kneaded and leavened, it was removed to a 
table with a rim, and fashioned into a variety of forms by 
the hand or with moulds. The larger loaves were placed 
in rows in a capacious oven, in which wood had been burnt 
and raked out carefully. Sometimes, also, a fire would ap- 
pear to have been kept up in an open space around the 
oven, having at the top a smoke vent. One kind of loaf 
was baked in a small fictile or inner oven, called cribanos, 
which was either placed in the fire, or surrounded by hot 
coals. There was another which they toasted before the 
fire on a spit ; and a great variety of cakes were baked on 
the live coals, or in the ashes. 

The calling of the baker during the middle ages was con- 
sidered to be one so closely aflTecting the intprests of the 
public that it was put under strict regulations and super- 
vision, and these special restrictions continued to aflfect the 
trade down to very recent times. At what period the art 
of baking became a separate profession in England we have 
not been able to ascertain ;' but an act of Parliament was 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



12 SHORT HISTORY OF THE BAKER'S ART. 

passed in 1266 for regulating tlie price of bread by public 
assize ; and the system continued in operation till 1822 in 
the case of the city of London, and till 1833 for the rest of 
the country. 

The art of making bread made ita way northward very 
slowly; and even at present, in the northern countries of 
Europe and Asia loaves of bread are seldom used except by 
the higher classes of inhabitants. Borrichius informs us 
that in Sweden and Norway, the only bread known as late 
.as the middle of the 16th century was unleavened cakes 
kneaded by women ; and even now although rolls are fre- 
quently seen in the towns, yet loaves are rarely met with. 
In the country parts of Sweden indeed no bre^d is made 
but rye-cakes, nearly as hard as flint, which are only baked 
twice a year. About a century ago loaf-bread was almost 
as scarce in Scotland, barley bannocks and oaten cakes 
constituting the universal substitute among all ranks. The 
manufacture of fermented or leavened bread is, as has 
been already hinted, of very great antiquity, and 
it is still by the fermenting process that bread is chiefly 
made. In ancient times leaven was employed to in- 
duce fermentation (Galatians v. 9), and to this day the 
Parisian bakers chiefly use this same ferment. Leaven is 
simply a portion of dough put aside from a previous baking 
in which the fermentative action has reached an advanced 
stage of activity. Yeast, however, has been used as a fer- 
ment from an early period, and must have been introduced 
soon after the art of making beer had obtained some de- 
gree of success, because the evolution of gas in the leaven- 
ing process must have suggested the trial of yeast, which 
also evolves gas in the conversion of saccharine matter into 
beer. There is, however, no authentic statement of its in- 
troduction in place of leaven, although according to Pliny 
(Nat. Hist, xviii, 12) it was flrst employed in France : 
** GallicB et Htapanice frumento in potum resoluto, spumaa 
ita concreta pro ferment o utuntur; qua de causa levior illis 
quam ceteris panis eaV^ The use of yeast, however, ap- 
pears to have died out in France, but was revived again at 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SHORT HISTORY OF THE BAKER'S ART. 13 

the end of the 17th century, when its re-introduction was 
violently opposed by the Parisian Medical Faculty, and is 
now made use of by the bakers of Paris only for fancy 
bread and pastry. In Scotland the practice of using fer- 
ments was not generally followed, some of the varieties of 
yeast or barm being mixed directly with the flour. 

Most of the improvements introduced into the baker^s 
art are of recent date, and consist chiefly of the substitution 
of machinery for the old laborious processes of hand-labor, 
which appliances will be duly noticed further on ; but the 
main principles and features of the art have changed but 
little during the course of hundreds of ages. Bread, cakes 
and crackers seem always to have been made, in some 
shape or form, as far back as we can trace, and the products 
of to-day are but varieties and improvements of those of 
our remote ancestors. A brief review of the various articles 
that claim the attention of the baker of our own day may 
therefore not be amiss. 

Bread, — By bread is now generally understood a compo- 
sition of wheaten meal, water and salt, raised by leaven, 
yeast, or some other artiflcial means, and baked in the 
oven so as to produce a hard surface or crust. If other 
kinds of bread are intended, it is generally so expressed, as 
rye-bread, corn-bread, for example. Very frequently, how- 
ever, un fermented cakes, such as sea-biscuit, are styled 
bread in technical language. Of this kind is ordinary 
Ship or Navy bread, which is made of a low grade of flour, 
with little, if any, shortening (butter or lard) in them, and 
are made large and thick. As captains and officers consider 
themselves entitled to better food than those under their 
command, and not being so circumscribed in their diet and 
actions by the regulations of the service, they have a bread 
or biscuit prepared for their own use, made of a higher 
grade of flour, richer, and of a smaller and thinner pat- 
tern, called Captain^s biscuit or bread ; the distinctive 
names in this country, however, being Army or Navy, and 
Pilot. From the Captain ^s biscuits emenated in England 
the '* thin captain's,'' made smaller and thinner than the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



14 SHORT HISTORY OF THE BAKER's ART. 

others. The " Blister" is so called, becau e as the result of 
their extreme thinness, and of their being baked in very 
hot ovens, small blisters rise over their surface. 

Biscuits and Crackers, There is as yet an unavoidable 
confusion in the use of the terms biscuits and crackers. In 
Eugland and most other countries, almost all goods except 
bread and loaf cakes are called biscuits, with the distinc- 
tions of hard and soft, and sweet biscuits ; consequently, 
the word biscuit in England, France and elsewhere (except 
in America, and often even here) is used in a general sense. 
What the English and others call hard biscuits, the Ameri- 
-cans for distinction, call crackers. On the same principle, 
what the other countries style soft goods, or sweet, soft or 
fancy biscuits, Americans call cakes. Biscuit is derived from 
the Latin, bis (twice) and coctvs (cooked), meaning twice 
baked. Tne practice of twice baking, or once baking and once 
<irying, originated with the Bomans, whose custom it was to 
twice prepare their bread or biscuits for their armies, in the 
same oven. This was done for the double purpose of render- 
ing the biscuit hard and more brittle, and to improve their 
**keepiug" properties. The sameoperation is employed in the 
preparation of ship's bread (army or navy biscuit) except the 
Jatter are not dried in the same oven as they were baked in, 
which was the practice of the Romans. There is a sense in 
which the word cracker is more fully applied to biscuits, than 
in the matter of ship's or navy bread ; it is to that class of bis- 
cuits of a finer grade, more delicate nature, and smaller and 
thinner make; such as American soda, milk etc, and the 
English thin captains, cracklings, crack-le-teens, wafers, etc* 
The reason why soft, fancy sweet biscuits are so called, in 
<3ommon with hard biscuits, can be found in the French 
word biscotin (Italian biscoitino), signifying a confection 
made of flour, sugar, eggs, preserves, etc. The word biscuit 
Is further applied to small tea-cakes made of bread dough 
raised either by fermentation, chemical or mechanical 
means, cut in small rounds, and baked as bread in an oven. 

Cake, is from the Latin coquo (to cook) and simply de- 
notes anything baked. With us It means any mixture of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SHOKT IILSTOUV OF THE BAKEll'S AUT. 15 

ingredientB only once baked, in any form we chose. There 
is, however, a distinction in the use of the singular and 
plural of the word cake; the former signifying generally a 
loaf of some considerable size (containing sugar, flavorings» 
etc.,) and which is designed to be cut in slices before being 
eaten ; whereas in the latter case it applies chiefly to small, 
thin, soft biscuits, cut or stamped out, and not usually ex- 
ceeding two or three inches in diameter. The term is also 
applied to batter baked in round shapes upon a hot grid- 
dle. 

Buna, from the Greek, boinoa, signifying a mass or collec- 
tion. They were first made in concave bulb form; or cut 
across the top so that when they were baked the cuts 
opened, causing them to look like a cluster of small bulbs* . 
They were originally made of sweet, fermented dough with 
currants in them, and were called currant buns. They are 
now made from both fermented and unfermented dough* 
also from cream and other mixtures, and of every conceiv- 
able quality and flavor. In the main, however, they are 
still made the original shape, although some are left smooth 
on the top ; others cut like the good Friday or hot cross-bun ; 
etc., some are set nearly together on the pans, and others 
are almost square when baked. The Scotch claim to have 
been the first bun makers; they, however, spell the word 
with two n's, bunn. 

Cracknels, The word cracknel signifies simply crack or 
hard biscuit, and is used to distinguish that class of hard 
biscuits mixed with eggs, instead of water or milk, and 
which are boiled or steamed before baking. They are sup- 
posed to have originated in Cowes, Isle of Wight, and 
were first called ** cracknel.'* Then followed the leaf crack- 
nel, the star cracknel, and the wheel cracknel which latter 
takes its name from its being made to take a peculiar form 
by being pressed between two pieces of wood with spokes 
radiating from their centers like a wheel, but no rim on 
them ; these cracknels were as large as a saucer. Cracknels 
when first made in this country were called, as they still 
are, cream crackers, also egg crackers or biscuit. They 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



16 SHORT HISTORY OF THE BAKER'S ART. 

have a peculiar lightness owing to their conaposition and 
manipulation, and are easily digested. A barrel holds only 
18 or 20 lbs. of cracknels. 

Crumpets are so called because while cooking they shrink 
and contract into irregular shaped holes, like honey-comb, 
having a wrinkled appearance on their surface. A good 
crumpet should be full of these holes or cells, and should 
admit, while fresh, of being bent double and coming back 
to shape again without breaking. They are made from a 
thin fermented batter, which is poured into hoops, and 
baked on a hot iron plate. 

Drops* This name is given to that class of goods made 
from soft mixtures, and usually dropped with a bag and 
tube. Some are pinched onto the pans ; others are cut up 
with knife-rollers, rounded in a sieve, then panned and 
baked. Drops are now made in bakeries by special mi<- 
chinery. 

Gems, The word gem does not indicate a special or dis- 
tinct line of goods, but was given to convey the idea that 
the biscuits besides being both good and rare, were of a 
peculiar oval shape known as gem. They weie first made 
at Plymouth, England. 

Jumbles, These were originally made in the shape of a 
true lover's knot. For a long time it was the only kind 
made ; but there are now many different varieties, thegreater 
portion of which are in the form of a ring. The name 
jumble signifies a confused mass; consequently jumbles 
are made to wear a rough appearance by pressing the dough 
through a jumble forcer, with generally a star bead, which 
when baked, gives them a rock-like appearance. This is 
the nearest approach they make to the name they bear 
All jumbles, however, are not rough ; some are smooth, be- 
ing rolled and cut either by machine or hand, such as ar- 
rowroot jumbles. 

Macaroons, Massepains, and Ratafias. These are dainty 
preparations made of almonds, sugar and the whites of 
eggs, of which there are very many varieties. See formulae 
and memoranda- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SHORT HISTORY OP THE BAKER'S ART. 17 

Meringues. These are another dainty preparation of sugar 
and the whites of eggs. The meringue proper consists of 
two oval halves, which when placed together, form one oval 
whole. The^ are hollow, and before serving are filled with 
preserves or icing ; they are then put together and lastly 
dished up. 

Nougat^ is a preparation of almonds and sugar, belonging 
as much to the province of the confectioner as to that of the 
baker. 

Nie-Naca is a name given to hard sweet biscuits or crack- 
eis, to distinguish them from others. As their name im- 
plies they are small, and are a combination of fancy shapes. 
They were first made in Loi^don. 

Ru8k8 are generally made from a fermented dough, set 
close together on pans; when baked they are cut in half, 
returned to the oven and colored of a light brown ; they are 
then very hard and dry. Some bakers make rusks from a 
sweet unfermented dough without drying them. Although 
these are not rusks, properly speaking, yet they are very 
frequently so called, as are also certain kinds of sweet buns. 

Snapaand Nuts, The word snap signifies to break quickly, 
and is i^sed by the baker to indicate a good, hard, crisp-eat- 
ing article. It belongs to a separate and distinct line of 
goods. At first the name was confined to goods containing 
molasses, but afterwards extended to other kinds. To day 
there are many varieties of snaps, some with, some without 
molasses; such as brandy snaps, ginger snaps, almond 
snaps, etc. They are generally, although not always round 
in shape. They derive their crispness mainly from the 
large amount of sugar or saccharine matter they contain, 
and which, under the action of heat, undergoes the same 
change that a boiling of sugar does in the confectioner^s 
hands. While kept from the air they retain their crisp- 
ness, but on exposure they absorb moisture and become 
soft. Nuts are similar goods to snaps, only made smaller 
and somewhat resembling a hickory nut in size. They 
were originally invented in England to be sold at fairs in 
common with other goods so slyled. 

B 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



18 



SHORT HISTORY OF THE BAKEU'S ART. 



TTa/era and Waferettes are names applied for distinotiou 
only, to all crackers or biscuits which are very, very thin. 
The term wafer is also applied to a species of soft dough 
cakes baked in wafer irons. 

In regard to the other various products of the bakery, 
such as, batons, biscottes, cookies, crisps, gauffres, grid- 
dle cakes, kisses, muffins, pretzels, puffs, rolls, waffles, 
etc., they are either so well known and defined as to re- 
quire no elucidation in this place, or are fully explained 
(together with all the various kinds of bread, cakes and 
crackers) in the second x>ortion of this work, under ap- 
propriate headings. 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CHAPTEE II. 

THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKING. 

[From the Lectures of Prof. Obaham, D. Sc.l . 

The Ferment— a Sack of Flour the Basis of Operatiohs— Stirring 
the Sponge— How Prepared — Its Action — Proportion of Water 
Used — Sponge With and Without Salt— First and Second 
Breaks — Proportion of Salt — Scaling and Making the Loaves 
— Baking Temperature — Modifications — Patent Yeast — Fancy 
Breadand Rolls — German Yeast — How Used— Scieutific Reasous 
fortheUse of Potatoes — Degradation of theSoluble Albumiuoids 
in the Ferment and Sponge — ^The Dough, or Inert Stage — How 
Bread is Raised— The Objects of the Baker — ^Perfect Aeration — 
Absence of Colored Products — "Nutty" Taste — The Use of 
Salt— Fermentation — Pasteur's Experiments — Dust of the Grape 
— Spores of Ferments in the Air — Spontaneous Fermentation — 
Leavened Bread — Saccharomyces Minor-^Saccharomyces Cere- 
visioe — Defects of the Leavening Process — Mould — Action Sim- 
ilar to Yeast — Mother of Beer — ^Yeast Cells — Sprouted Barley — 
Alcohol — Conditions Requisite for the Growth of Yeast — Solu- 
ble Albuminoids — Sugars — Proper Kinds of Yeast for the 
Baker — Hops and Their Uses — German Yeast — Top and Bottom 
Fermentations — Bad Harvests — Inferior Flours — The Dauglish 
Method of Aerating Bread— How lo Use Inferior Flours "With- 
out Subjecting them to the Degrading Action of the Yeast, and . 
Without D^-veloping High Colored Products — Chemistry of 
Baking — Action of the Heat — Expansion of the Loaf — Glazing 
of the Surface — Colored Products — Crust — Cerealin — Absorp- 
tion and Retention of Water — Yield of Bread From Flour— ^ 
Artificial Processes of Raising Bread — ^Aerated Bread— Advanr 
tages and Objections — Use of Chemicals— Muriatic Acid and 
Bicarbonate of Soda— Tartaric Acid— Phosphate of Lime — 
How to Prepare the Latter — ^Bakiug Powders— Digestion, a 
Continuation of Fermentation — Ptyaline —Processes of Diges- 
tion—The Teeth— Why Fresh Baked Bread is Unhealthy. 

The first part of the process consists in the preparation of 
what is technically called the *' ferment." I ought to say, 
first of all, that a sack of fiour weighs 280 fi>s., and that a 
sack will turn out about 90 to 94 loaves of 4 lbs. each, accord, 
ing to the quality of the fiour; so that I shall deal with a 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



20 THE CHEMISTRY OP BREAD MAKING. 

sack of flour as the unit of the operation which I shall pro- 
ceed to describe. Bakers themselves, inasmuch as it is 
much more convenient to measure water than to weigh 
flour, are in the habit of speaking not so much of the flour 
employed as of the water. The first part of the process i& 
the preparation of the ferment. This consists in taking 
potatoes, about 6 lbs to 8 lbs to the sack— some use as 
much as 12 lbs— and the potatoes should be, of course, well 
selected, mealy, not waxy or unripe, and ill-matured. 
These are well washed, then boiled, in order to burst the 
cell walls of the potato starch. After they have been boiled 
thoroughly, they are mixed with additional water, and 
then put into a fermenting tub, and when the temperature 
of the water and of the mashed potatoes has cooled to 85 
deg., Fahr., the yeast is added. One quart of brewer's 
yeast is employed to the sack of flour, and, in addition to 
this, a pound or two of flour is added to supply album- 
inous food to the yeast, and this constitutes the ** ferment.'' 
Fermentation commences, the soluble starch is affected 
partly by the direct action of the yeast, and partly by the 
action set up by the yeast-ferment on the soluble albumin- 
oids in the flour which has been added, and the result is 
the hydration of the starch and the conversion of the 
starch into the sugars and dextrin. This process goes on 
for some five hours; it rises during that time, and at about 
the end of five hours, varying a little with the temperature, 
the head falls in. The head having fallen in, it is allowed 
to remain in a quiescent condition for two or three hours^ 
and then the baker proceeds to the next stage, which is the 
preparation of the "sponge." They call it "stirring the 
sponge." In the preparation of the sponge, about one- 
fourth of the total flour — or one-third, according to the 
practice of those bakers who preferastiffer sponge— is taken. 
This is placed in the trough, and the " ferment" is added, 
along with some more water at 85° Fahr., the whole of the 
ferment being forced through a sieve, to remove the skins 
of the potatoes used, and thus the skins do not come into 
contact with the sponge. The potato skins and flour on 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CHEMISTRY OP BREAD MAKING. 21 

the sieve are well washed by the water here added. The 
total amouut of water used in the ferment and sponge 
stages being about half of the whole amount used for the 
sack of flour, tLls amount is about 60 quarts, varying 
somewhat with the character of the flour. Thus, up to 
and including the "sponge," one-fourth—or one-third, 
according to some bakers— of the flour, and some 30 to 32 
quarts of water have been used. 

In the preparation of the sponge, some bakers— not many, 
but still some who occupy a prominent position in the 
trade— add a part of the salt, I have been told, about one- 
half of the total salt; but probably this will depeud entirely 
upon the temperature, as, for example, whether it is winter 
time or summer. The object of the salt is to check some- 
what the activity of the ferment, and I shall presently al- 
lude to this matter again, because many bakers do not 
adopt the plan of adding salt at this particular stage. 

The sponge being made, it is allowed to go on fermenting 
for some time. At the end of about an hour it increases 
visibly in size, and this increase, due to the production Of 
carbonic acid gas, causes it, at the end of about Ave hours, 
to ** break." When the mass has risen to its fullest extent, 
the sponge breaks, owing to the escape of some of the car- 
bonic acid gas, and having broken and fallen down, it 
commences to rise again, and in about another hour, vary- 
ing somewhat according to the temperature at the time, or 
of the room, the sponge rises again, and breaks again ; this 
is called the second break. So soon as it has broken a sec- 
ond time, the remaining part of the flour— which would be 
about three-fourths, or two-thirds, according to the practice 
followed by the baker— and the remainder of the water are 
added. 

We pass thus to the dough. The remainder of the flour 
having been added, and the remainder of the water, the 
whole is thoroughly well mixed, and it is at this stage when 
most bakers add the whole of the salt. Other bakers only 
use that which remains over after having employed a little 
at tlve sponge stage. The total quantity of salt used I And 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



22 THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKING. 

to be about 3 Bbs to the sack, or 48 ounces, which would give 
about half an ounce of salt to the 4-Ib loaf of bread. 

The dough, having been thoroughly well worked, Is no\v 
left for one hour, in order to rise again. It is then scaled; 
that is, it is cut and weighed off in proper quantity, and 
made up into loaves. By the time a la^ge batch of bread 
has been scaled and made up, of course, the previous por- 
tions are ready for the oven. They are then put into the 
oven, and are there heated for about an hour and a half, 
the temperature of the oven at the time of the introduction 
of the bread varying from about 400° Fahr., to 450° Fahr. 
Of course, that is not the temperature of the bread, because 
the bread contains water, and, therefore, it rises little, if at 
all, above the ordinary temperature of boiling water. 

There are some modifications of this process as ju3t de- 
scribed. First of all, some bakers use the whole of the salt 
in the stage which is called the preparation of the dough ;^ 
V hereas, as I have pointed out, some use a part of the salt 
at an earlier stage, namely, in the sponge stage. Again, 
some use a thicker sponge, some use as much as one-third 
of the total flour, and others only one-fourth. Again ^ 
some employ what is called patent yeast, instead of brew- 
er *s yeast. Patent yeast is made by taking an infusion of 
malt and boiling that with hops, and then, when it is suflft- 
ciently cooled, yeast is added, and in that way young active 
yeast cells are formed. Those who employ patent yensfr 
take, I believe, about 6 lbs. of this patent yeast— in winter T 
lbs.— to the sack of flour. One other point, to which I need 
only briefly allude, is the preparation of what is called 
fancy breads, more especially the beautiful rolls and loaves, 
introduced during the last few years to the London public 
in imitation of the bread made in Vienna, and afterwards 
in Paris. These fancy breads are fermented, not with tl •- 
ordinary brewer's yeast, as usual, but with German yeast; 
and the process— as I understand, followed by almost every 
one — is, to make the "ferment" first. This ferment is 
made with potatoes, and also with brewer's yeast, as usnal, 
but, in the sponge stage, German yeast is employed, and 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CHEMISTRY OP BREAD MAKING. 2S 

a considerable quantity, so that the fermentation is very 
rapid, and thus one obtains very large, light and porous 
bread. 

I will now briefly consider the chemical changes of the 
process. In the first place, in the preparation of the fer- 
ment, I said that potato, or fruit, as it is technically 
termed in the trade, is employed. Now, this is not used for 
the purpose of adulteration, nor is it used for the purpose of 
increasing the profit. On the contrary, very often the 
baker has to give a very much greater price for the starch 
in the potato than for the starch in the flour or rice, for it 
would be much cheaper for him to buy cereals for this pur- 
pose. His object is this. With the exception of the Mar- 
anta arrowroot, and the "Tons les mois" arrowroot, potato 
starch is the largest of Ihe starches, and it readily lends 
itself to the expansive action which takes place in boiling. 
On bursting the granulose matter, the starchy matter of 
the cells, exudes from the ruptured cell-walls; and it is 
only on the starch after it has been made in this soluble 
form, that the soluble ferments of the yeast can act. 
Therefore, the baker has found out for himself long before 
science waaable to teach him— I do not know how old the 
custom is, but certainly long before science could have 
taught him — the baker found out for himself the advantage 
of using a small weight of potatoes to develope the fer- 
menting organisms required to do the work of converting 
a sack of 280 %s flour into bread. Now, in 8 lbs of potatoes, 
there is only, at the very outside, one-fifth of its weight of 
starch, and one-fifth of 8 lbs is but a very small quantity 
when dealing with 280 lbs of flour; and manifestly, then, 
this arises from some other reason than a desire to substi- 
tute a cheap material for a dearer." Its real value is to 
enable the baker J:o obtain an active propagation of the 
yeast, and to enable him to get a larger quantity of sugars 
and dextrin formed in a given quantity of time than if he 
were to employ flour only. I believe, in some cases, bakers 
also scald a little flour, in order to obtain some Soluble starch 
in that way, in addition to the employment of potato. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



24 THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKING. 

During the preparation of the ferment, which lasts 
something like eight hours, there is a continuous action ; 
the soluble albuminoids in the presence of moisture at 
about 86° (Fahr.) gradually become degraded, less and 
lees complex, and, therefore, more and more mobile; and 
this action converts soluble starch into the more hyd rated 
products, maltose and dextrin. 

The ferment having been much increased by the treat- 
ment with the potato and the small quantity of flour em- 
ployed, the next stage is the preparation of the sponge. 
Here the baker adds a portion of the flour, either ono-tliinl 
or one-fourth, according to his custom, and, of course, a 
portion of the water. This is thoroughly intermixed, and 
so the ferment! ug action goes on; partly upon the sugars 
already formed in the first or fermenting stage, and partly 
also (and to a great extent with inferior flours) upon the 
albuminoids and starch of the flour added in stirring the 
sponge. 

The third stage is what I will call, chemically, the inac- 
tive stage. I do not mean to say that no change goes on 
but that, as compared with the very great chemical activ- 
ity of the fermenting stage, and the powerful fermenting 
activity of the sponge stage, we may call the dough stage 
—when it is made thick and flrm, and when salt is added 
in order to check further action— the inert stage, the object 
now being that there shall be no more degradation of the 
albuminoids, no more breaking up of the complex starch 
into simpler molecular groupings. Sufficient of the sugar 
has been formed to carry on all that is required at this par- 
ticular stage. The period given for the carrying on of the 
fermentation is only about an hour, and then the dough is 
put into the oven in order that the action shall be stopped ; 
but, of course, before it is stopped, the temperature acts on 
the globules of carbonic acid gas; they expand under the 
heat, and so they lift the bread, and they are able to lift it 
on account of the resisting elastic property which the glu- 
ten of the wheat possesses. 

The flrst object aimed at by the baker in the process of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKING. 25 

bread-bakiDfi^, is to get a thoroughly good aeration of the 
finished bread, so that it shall be light, not heavy, that the 
air spaces which lighten it shall not be large, but that therj 
shall be a large quantity of smaller air spaces, and to obtain, 
in other word&, a well-piled, well-aerated bread. The next 
point the baker aims at, is to have as little color produced 
in the pan ifl cation process, and in the oven process, as pos- 
sible, and his object in endeavoring to obtain as little as 
possible of colored products is, doubtless, derived from the 
fact that inferior flours are pre-eminently prone to give 
colored products, and the world at large has come to the 
conclusion that high-colored bread is due, of course to infe- 
rior flour. These are by no means the only objects that the 
baker has in view, he also desires to obtain a loaf that has 
a nice aroma, and a sweet— I think they call it a ** nutty "— 
taste on the palate. 

The use of salt is a very interesting discovery on the part 
of the unscientific baker. The baker found out the value 
of it long ago, and also in this case before there was any 
science to tell him of it. In a very interesting lecture, 
delivered some few years ago by Mr. Callard, a baker of 
well-recognized eminence in the trade, it was pointed out 
t^at the salt might be compared to the bridle, and the yeast 
to the whip, that the one was a check on the other, and 
that by a judicious use of salt at the different stages, one 
could guide and arrest the fermentation. 

I proceed now to a matter which must have arisen in the 
minds of all of you. What is the cause of fermentation ? 
To what is the production of carbonic acid gas due, and to 
what is the production of alcohol, which is always noticed 
in the fermentation of bread, due? The problem, whence 
come ferments, has been, to a great extent, answered by 
Pasteur. If you take an ordinary grape, well grown in the 
south of Europe, you will find a beautiful bloom upon it. 
That bloom partly consists of minute organisms and dust 
that has fallen on the skin of the grape. Now, Pasteur 
proved that it was this dust adhering to the outside of the 
grape that set up fermentation in the expressed juice >f 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



26 THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKING. 

the grape. I will not detain you by a long account of his 
work, but I will merely say that, in the first place, he so 
arranged his experiment that he could take from the inside 
of the grape a portion of the juice without any trace of the 
dust of the skin coming in contact with it. He found, 
when that juice was put in small tubes, and in tubes which 
had been previously heated so that there should be no trace 
of organised dust existing in them, and with proper means 
taken to prevent any more dust getting into such a tube, 
the juice would not ferment. On the other hand, when he 
took a small portion of the dust of the skin of the grape, 
and added it to the juice from the interior of the grape, he 
ROt vinous fermentation. The juice was converted into wine 
by alcoholic fermentation. Not only does the grape contain 
this minute ferment on the skin, but also the dust of the 
air generally contains the spores of ferments, and ferments 
themselves, which may produce alcohol, butyric, ropy or 
other kinds of fermentation. Not long ago, in England, it 
was customary in Dorsetshire to allow the wort made from 
malt to spontaneously ferment, and if you go to Brussels^ 
even at the present day, you will find beers well known in 
Belgium under the name of Lambic and Faro, produced by 
spontaneous fermentation. After the wort has been made, 
it is placed in large tuns, and whatever dust falls from the 
atmosphere goes iqto the large hole at the top, and sets up 
fermentation. The old process of making bread by means 
of leaven was also a haphazard process of the same kind ; 
that is, you could not predict exactly what kind of organ- 
isms would follow. The result is, as you know, that the 
old leavened bread was certainly by no means a sweet, 
pleasant bread, and those who have had the misfortune to 
drink Lambic and Faro, must know how sour and bad they 
are. 

I said that the old leaven contains alcoholic organisms. 
These have been carefully examined by Engel, and he has 
given them the term Saccharomycea minor, because they are 
smaller than the ordinary beer yeast, called Saccharomycea 
cereviaiae. These names may seem somewhat long for or- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKING. 27 

ganisixiB so small. I am unable to make use of simpler 
terms, however, without running the danger of confusion- 
The Saccharomycea minor, discovered by Engel in leaven ^ 
measures only 3- 10000th of an inch in diameter. It is an 
alcoholic organism, and produces spirit and carbonic acid 
like the ordinary yeast; at present, however, we have no 
knowledge of the ratio of alcohol to gas. Along with these 
organisms in leaven occur also the common beer yeast, 
and numerous organisms of disease, producing lactic, 
acetic, butyric acids, also the ropy organisms; indeed, left 
to chance as the leaven process is, we may expect numer- 
ous sources of diseased action. Thus, the spontaneous fer- 
mentation of bread (and the leaven process is eventually 
this), as with the Belgian beer, leaves us the sport of 
chance. 

The dust of the air contains organisms of various kinds; 
thus, in a short time, a piece of moi«*t bread becomes cov- 
ered with mould ; our boots, if put away in a damp place, 
become covered with mould, and these moulds consist of 
different organisms, readily enough distinguished from 
each other, and to which different names have been given. 
One is the Penicilllum glaucum, another AspergilluSj and 
others are different species of Nucor, These all convert 
starch into carbonic acid and water, providing they are grow- 
ing in the air; but, if you submerge them in a saccharine 
liquid, they no longer can breathe the oxygen of the 
atmosphere by which they were able to convert starch into 
carbonic acid and water; they are deprived of their oxy- 
gen, or, at any rate, in a very short time the amount of 
dissolved air in the saccharine liquid is used up by them, 
and the result is that they are compelled to obtain their 
oxygen from the decomposition of the sugar itself. In 
getting oxygen from the decomposition of the sugar, they 
convert the remaining portion of it into carbonic acid and 
alcohol. 

The ordinary mother of beer, called by scientific men 
Mycoderma cerevisiae, the organism that converts beer 
into carbonic acid and water, if submerged in a fresh solu- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



28 THE CHEMISTRY OP BREAD MAKING. 

tion of barley malt, sets up a slow alcoholic fermentation, 
with the production of carbonic acid and alcohol. And so 
with other cell structures ; not only is this the case with 
organisms, such as I am speaking of, but even the cells of 
sprouted barley, or of sprouted wheat, or even the cells of 
an apple, act in the same way. If you were to take a sam- 
ple of sprouted barley, and put that into a bottle, after a 
week you would find, on opening the stopper, a great rush 
of carbonic acid, with a strong aroma of alcohol, together 
with some ethers. The same takes place with fruits under- 
going spontaneous decomposition. There is a difference, 
however, between the action of the cells of vegetable organ- 
ism and the yeast cells, in that they are not able to repro- 
duce; they do not increase; on the contrary, they die ; and, 
therefore, the amount of alcoholic fermentation produced 
by the cells of the sprouted barley, or the cells of fruits, is 
comparatively limited. 

The condition requisite for the vigorous action of yeast, 
and the vigorous growth of yeast, are these : — First of all, a 
certain amount of air is required. By passing air through 
a fermenting mash E. C. Hansen. has observed that the 
number of yeast cells is increased twice or thrice as much 
as when no air is bubbled through, and that about twice 
the quantity of liquid is fermented. A constant supply of 
oxygen is, therefore, very favorable to fermentation. I said 
just now that the organism was compelled to obtain its oxy- 
gen from the decomposition of the sugar; but, if you deal 
with an organism you have submerged under these condi- 
tions, the amount of alcohol produced is certainly great 
compared with the ratio of its weight to the whole weight 
of the yeast produced, but the amount of work absolutly 
done is comparatively small; whereas, by the aeration, to 
some extent, of the liquid, or by the employment of organ- 
isms that have previously been exposed to the air, there is 
a much greater activity. 

The next matter of importance for their vigour is the 
presence of soluble albuminoids. True it is, of course, 
that Pasteur has shown that the yeast organism is able to 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CHEMISTRY OP BREAD MAKING. 29» 

attack aniraoniacal salts, and to convert them into the pro- 
tein compounds of its own structure. That is quite correct; 
but I am speaking rather from the technical point of view, 
and in that point of view the presence of albuminoids i» 
necessary to active fermentation, whether of beer or 
bread.** 

The next essential is the presence of sugars. There must 
be sugars present in order to undergo decomposition, pro- 
ducing carbonic acid and alcohol, and also to enable the 
yeast prgan isms, as they are multiplying, to build up new 
cell structures by the cellulose formed from the de- 
composition of sugar. Nine-tenths of the weight of ordin- 
ary yeast, when well dried, consists of albuminoid substan- 
aces, the other tenth being matters derived from the sugar* 

We have seen that dust contains the spores of many or- 
ganisms, and it becomes necessary, when using ferments — 
obtained from beer, for example — for the baker that he 
should see whether the yeast which he has got contains the 
particular alcoholic organism which he wants, or whether 
it contains a large number of other organisms that produce 
acidity — produce, in other words, decomposition of a kind 
unfavorable to his bread-making process. Bitter-ale yeast 
is not so well adapted for bread-making as mild-ale yeast; 
for this reason, that a large quantity of hop has been em- 
ployed in the process, and the tannic acid in the hop, to- 
gether with the oil, are inimical to the activity of the 
yeast. Consequently, the yeast obtained from very highly- 
hopped ales is not so well adapted for the baker as that ob- 
tained from less hoped ales. I have spoken of patent yeast, 
and it is somewhat singular to find that hops are always 
used in its production. Indeed, I have been told by more 
than one, that, if we were not to use hops in dealing with 
malt, it would be impossible to get any yeast formed, and 
that if we were to add yeast to an infusion of malt prepared 
without hops, we could not get yeast formed. Of course, 
this is erroneous. It is not much more than three centuries 
ago that hops were first introduced into England. Old 
English ale was not made with hops. The use of hops is. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



50 THE CHEMISTRY OP BREAD MAKING. 

to aid the keeping qualities of the yeast, by preventing 
too rapid decay. German yeast is very largely used in 
England now. It is not a yeast which comes up to the 
surface of the beer in the same way as ours; on the con- 
trary, it is a yeast which settles to the bottom, and, there- 
fore, that form of fermentation is called ** bottom fernjen- 
tation ;^' whereas ours is called "top fermentation;" 
but, in their chemical action, there is no essential 
•difference between them. In each case they convert sao- 
ohrine matter into carbonic acid and alcohol, and ^n the 
same ratios. 

I have called attention to the fact that, in our bad harv- 
ests, the peculiarity of our wheats was not that there was 
Any deficiency in the total percentage of albuminoids, but 
that there was a less percentage of the tough, elastic, valu- 
able bread-making gluten; and I then said that something 
might be done by a partial kiln-dryiug of the wheat, and 
by so drying the flour afterwards, that it should not be 
ready to undergo the degradation due to the moisture 
which often occurs. In the process of fermentation, which 
I have briefly described to you, we have seen that, in the 
sponge stage, a considerable quantity of the flour is left to 
undergo the degrading action set up by the yeast on the 
soluble albuminoids already there; manifestly, then, inferi- 
or flours should not be submitted to such a panification 
process, for two reasons. In the first place, there is a want 
of the proper elastic matter in the bread; secondly, a large 
amount of coloring matters is obtained in the fermentation. 
This was the conclusion come to some yeacs ago by Dr. 
Dauglish, and he devised a system by which one may em- 
ploy inferior wheats by using carbonic acid made in other 
ways, and not by the action of the yeast-organism upon 
the flour. Of course, tastes difler. I do not know how 
many of you like aerated bread, but personally I do not 
like it. There is a want to my taste, *of that nice, sweet 
^avor one gets by the fermentation process. Those who 
like aerated bread have certainly an excellent means of us- 
ing inferior flours; but, for those who wish to have the pe- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKING. 31 

<5uliar aroma which is brought about by fermentation, thi 
problem presents itself, how shall we have carbonic acid 
manufactured in the ordinary fermentation process, and 
yet not obtain the highly colored products which an 
lormed when we carry on that process with inferior flour 1 

It seems to me that we can get over the diflftculty by not 
allowing the inferior flours to be submitted to the action of 
the albuminoids of the yeast, and, therefore, that in our 
preparation of the ferment we should use the best potatoes 
and the best flour. I did suggest that it was worth while to 
try the eflfectof using the sugar called dextrose in conjunc- 
tion with potato, and one might also suggest that potato* 
starch might be. used along with or in place of potatoes. 
But, in the second stage, I think the important change U 
this : that we should use, for what is called by the baker 
the sponge stage of the fermentation, where it remains 
«ight hours, a quarter of the flour, and not allow the flour of 
the sponge to be inferior, so as to undergo this very serious 
degradation by which an unpleasant form of bread is ob- 
tained and a high color. It seems to me, that in this stage 
-one ought to use flour made from well-matured wheats, and 
that when we come to the comparatively inert stage, which 
only lasts for a short time, and in the presence of a compar- 
atively small ratio of water, that then we should make use 
of our inferior flours, if we are so unfortunate as to have 
Ihem. I suggest this as a method by which we may im- 
prove, not merely the appearance of the bread, but also its 
digestibility, because a heavy sodden bread, is not the 
kind of bread that lends itself readily to the subsequent 
stages of fermentation, which I shall have to draw your 
iittention to. 

I will pass on now to the chemical examination of the 
<;banges which take place when the bread is introduced in- 
to the oven. In the flrst place, the bottom of the loaf, and 
the side, and the top of the loaf, are greatly heated by the 
liot surface which comes in contact with the bottom, and 
by the hot surfaces, which radiate the heat from the top of 
X-he oven on to the loaf. The depth of the oven is made 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



32 THE CHEMISTRY OP BREAD MAKING. 

comparatively slight, the object being to have the radiatr 
ing surface as near as possible to the top of the loaf. So 
soou as the loaf has been submitted to the action of the 
heat, the carbonic acid gas which was in the dough ex- 
pands, and by the time that gas has been heated from 
about 80° to 212*^, which is the boiling point of water, that 
gas will have expanded from one cubic inch to 1.24, and 
will indicate the amount of increase that a loaf would un- 
dergo, supposing there was no moisture. But while the 
amount of increase takes place, due to the expansion of the 
carbonic acid gas itself^ there is also considerable expansion 
due to the fact that the gas is moist. Now, the tension of 
aqueous vapour at 212® is equal to the atmospheric pressure^ 
therefore we get an enormous increase, due to the amount 
of the moisture, as well as to the carbonic acid gas itself. 
I said that the temperature of the oven ranged from about 
400° to 450°. The temperature of boiling water is 212°, that 
is to say, provided the barometer stands at 80 inches of 
mercury, because, of course, there is a higher boiling 
point if the barometer be higher, and lower if the barom- 
eter should stand lower. Therefore, although the walls of 
the oven are at a temperature of about 400° to 450°, the loaf 
itself is not at such a temperature. The bottom, which is 
resting on the hot surface, of course is considerably heated, 
but the interior of the loaf does not rise much above 212°. 
It rises doubtless slightly above that temperature, due to the 
resisting action of the outer surface of the crust, which adds 
to the resistance of the atmospheric pressure. Secondly, 
during this action which is going on in the presence of 
moisture, the cell walls of the starch are ruptured, so that 
we obtain from such a heating action, not starch such as 
we know it before it is boiled, but starch which, by the 
ruptured cells, lends itself readily to the action of albumin- 
oid ferments. Thirdly, by thQ action of heat, some of the 
albuminous matter undergoes a degrading action, which is 
afterwards of use in the digestion process. But that is not 
all. Due to the action of heat and moisture, not only is 
there glazing by the production of dextrin on the surface, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKING. 33 

but there is also, to a slight extent, a production of dextrin 
in the interior of the loaf. You cannot get digestible albu- 
minoids and starch of wheat, unless they have been sub- 
mitted to the prolonged action of heat and moisture, and 
this, to some extent, takes place in the action of heat upon 
the loaf in the oven. 

Another point I have to notice is, that colored products 
are formed. The torrefaction or colored products that are 
formed, are partly due to the action of moisture at a high 
temperature on soluble albuminoid matters, and partly to 
the dextrin and maltose sugars that have been formed in 
the previous panification process. Now, the more st)luble 
products are obtained in the previous process of bread- 
making, the greater will be the amount of color in the 
final loaf. On the other hand, the less the soluble products 
produced by the previous bread-making process, the less 
will be the colored products obtained in the oven. That 
is why inferior flours produce so much color. Inferior 
flours yield to the panification process; that is, in the pro- 
cess where moist and moderate heat is acting on flour for a 
considerable time, a very large quantity of soluble products 
are formed. Therefore, I say that the more soluble prod- 
ucts obtained in the previous panification process, the 
greater the amount of colored products obtained in the 
oven, and, of course, the less pleasant does the loaf look. 

Another matter we ought to notice is, that by the action 
of heat we obtain the outside crust. This crust retains the 
moisture for a much longer time than If there were no 
crust, and, lastly, the amount of moisture or water is 
greater the finer the flour, and, of course, vice versa, and this 
absorption and retention of water depends upon two dis- 
tinct factors. In the first place it depends upon the higher 
character of the albuminoids. Albuminoids of high matu- 
ration character (such as crude gluten, composed chiefly of 
fibrin, and, to some extent also, of glutin), absorb 
and retain water with great avidity, which is not the 
case with some other forms of albuminoids, such as 
albumen found in most cereals, found largely in our infe- 
c 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



34 THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKING. 

rior wheats in bad seasons, but to a very small extent in 
really well-matured wheats grown In highly favored cli- 
mates; the l^umin, and other soluble albuminoid bodies, 
found very largely in the leguminosse; and the cerealin, 
which is one of the albuminoids found in the husks of 
cereals — of wheat especially— these soluble albuminoids do 
not absorb much water, nor have they much power in 
retaining it. Therefore, I say, that the first factor depends 
on the character of the albuminoids present. There is 
still another, which is this, it depends also on the percent- 
age of starch. Supposing you have a sufficiently large quan- 
tity of hard gluten, then the higher the amount of starch, 
the more water will be absorbed and retained by such flour. 

This absorption and retention of water enters largely into 
the question of the number of loaves that may be obtained 
from 100 Xba of flour. According to Lawes and Gilbert, in 
100 lbs of bread, there will be on the average 62.8 of dry, 
solid matter, and 37.2 of water; according to Millon, 63.7 
of dry matter, and 36.3 of water ; according to Dumas, 55.4 
of dry matter, and 44.6 of water ; and according to Macla- 
gan, 64 of dry matter, and 36 of water. To take this ques- 
tion from another point of view, lOOIbs of flour will yield, 
according to Lawes and Gilbert, 135 lbs of bread; according 
to Dumas, 130; and Maclagan, 137. But I need hardly say 
that the number of loaves obtained from 100 lbs of wheat 
flour, or the number of loaves ob*^ained from the sack, will, 
of course, vary, according to the character of the wheat. 
Practically, the finer the wheat, the greater number of 
loaves obtained from it. 

I have now done with the fermentation process,, by which 
carbonic acid gas is used for the purpose of lightening 
bread. I have now to refer briefly to what may be called 
artificial processes ofproducing thesame evolutionof carbon- 
ic acid gas, not from the flour, but from chemical'substances 
used along with the flour. The best known of these meth- 
ods is the process of Dauglish. The carbonic acid gas in 
this method is obtained by the action of acid upon 
chalk, that is, carbonate of lime. The carbonic acid 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CHEMISTRY OF BBEAD MAKING. 35 

obtained by the decompositiou of chalk is thoroughly well 
washed, and the carbonic acid and water are then mixed, 
in proper proportions, with the flour, and as rapidly as possi- 
ble, the dough is made, scaled, made up into loaves, and 
put into the oven. Now, the advantages of these artificial 
processes are manifest. An inferior flour is not submitted 
to the degrading action of the albuminoids upon the starch ; 
we obtain no sugars, we obtain no dextrin. In other 
words, no action takes place, except in the oven, and, there- 
fore, one is able to employ inferior flours by such an artifi- 
cial process. Another advantage is, that the process is a 
very rapid one. The whole making of bread occupies a 
very small period of time compared with the long, tedious, 
laborious operations of the ordinary fermentation plan. 
On the other hand, I think I am bound to mention what I 
consider the disadvantages of the process. Such a bread is 
manifestly less sweet than if the flour had been subjected 
to the fermentation process. There has been no dextrin, 
no sugar formed, and the albuminoids have not been lowered 
or degraded. Consequently, such a bread does not taste 
sweet; it has none of that nutty flavor, according to my 
taste, which a well-fermented good loaf has. Another 
objection which occurs to me here is this, that the bread 
cannot be so rapidly digested as the fermented bread ; 
and it would be desirable that investigation should be made 
upon this point, because one cannot help feeling interested 
in the Dauglish process, on account of certain obvious mer- 
its which it has. 

Other methods for producing artificial raising of bread 
are very numerous, and I need only mention two or three 
of them. In the first place, there is the process by which 
bi-carbonate of soda and hydrochloric or muriatic acid, 
are brought to act on each other in the dough. A reaction 
takes place, by which chloride of sodium, or common salt, 
is formed, and the carbonic acid escapes, and, therefore, 
raises the loaf. But it is necessary that the operation 
should be carried on very rapidly, and it is also necessary 
that the exact proportions of bi-carbonate of soda and hy- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



36 THE CHEMISTRY OF BREAD MAKINQ. 

drochorlic acid should be used, so that there should be an 
exact neutralization of one by the other. In addition to 
this method, tartaric acid and bi-carbonate of soda are em- 
ployed occasionally ; and som<»times hydrochloric acid, to 
which a small quantity of the acid phosphate of lime has 
been added, is also employed, along with the bi-carbonate 
of soda. It is very easy to make this acid phosphate of 
lime. If you take a small portion of burnt bones, called 
bone-ash, which comes so largely from the River Plate and 
the Rio Grande, in South America, and add to it hydro- 
chloric acid, you convert it into what is technically termed 
super-phosphate of lime, or acid phosphate of lime, and if 
you use an excess of hydrochloric acid, you will have a so- 
lution of acid phosphate of lime in the hydrochloric acid 
liquid, and this, if it be used to react on the bi-carbonate of 
soda, will give common salt, together with phosphate of 
lime. The use of such agents has been recommended by 
many, owing to the desire, especially in the case of poor 
children, ill-supplied with milk, that the bread should con- 
tain bone earth, or the elements of bone earth, to that the 
children may obtain a considerable quantity of phosphates 
for the purpose of building up their bone tissue,which, at an 
early age, is necessary. Bi-carbonate of ammonia has also 
been employed as an artificial method of raising bread, 
and, of course, there are many other such artificial chemi- 
cal means. The various baking powders which are so 
much advertised, depend on a reaction of this kind by 
which carbon ic'acid gas is employed artificially. They all 
of them seem to me to be open to the same objection as the 
Dauglish method, and they have not its advantages, except 
in so far that they enable one to make an aerated bread 
under certain unfavorable circumstances, such as at sea, or 
far away from the means of obtaining yeast; of course, 
under these conditions, they have some value. 

Our bread being made, the next point one has to con- 
sider is, how it is digested. Now, digestion is a continu- 
ance of fermentation. Of course, I am using the expression 
fermentation in the same sense that I used it in speaking 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CHEMISTRY OF BBAED MAKING. 37 

of the hydration action upon starch. I am not using the 
term now in the sense of the boiling fermentation, where 
carbonic acid and alcohol are produced, but that form in 
which water is added to the molecular structure of the 
starch, by which sugars and dextrin are formed. The first 
agent which is brought to bear upon the bread is the albu- 
menoid ferment, called by physologists, p^l^a^mc, which is 
found in the ealiva. This valuable fermenting principle 
which we have at the very threshold of digestion is able to 
convert boiled starch into sugar and dextrin with consid- 
erable rapidity, and at the same time also it breaks down, 
and therefore dissolves, some of the albuminoids. It then 
passes downwards, and in the stomach and duodenum it 
meets with other fluids, some of which have the power alsoof 
bydrating and converting starch into sugar and dextrin, 
and some others have the power of dissolving the albumin- 
oids themselves. 1 n that way we obtain the perfect solution 
of the bread that we eat. 

In order to obtain a thorough and rapid hydration of the 
«tarch, so that the starch is converted into soluble bodies, 
sugar and dextrin, it is necessary that the bread should be 
thoroughly comminuted, and we are endowed with a very 
wonderful apparatus for the purpose of cutting and grind- 
ing it up into a fine porous mass. At the same time while 
this operation is going on, the grinding action stimulates 
the glands, so that during the time they pour out the secre- 
tion destined by Nature for the solution of these starchy 
bodies. Of course, two points have here to be considered. 
I said we must obtain a fine, light porous mass, and we 
must, therefore, so cut up or grind that bread that it should 
always remain a fine porous mass; that it should be thor- 
oughly aerated, and at the same time well mixed with this 
albuminoid ferment of the saliva. Manifestly, therefore, 
we see at once that the habit of eating hot rolls and new 
bread, is the very opposite to which Nature has pointed out 
should be done. Bread which, when you press it between 
your finger and thumb, forms into impervious balls, is not 
a bread which lends itself readily to the action I am 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



38 SCIENCE AND ART OF BRBAD-BAKINO. 

speaking of; and I have been told, on good authority, that 
bakers, who have found out for themselves so many very 
interesting scientific facts connected with the whole pro- 
cess of panificatioD, seldom eat new bread. 



CHAPTER III. 

THE SCIENCE AND ART OF BREAD-BAKING. 

CAKE AND CRACKER MIXING. 

Essential In^edients— Even Temperature for the Flonr, Yeast and 
Water— Use of a Thermometer— Construction and Heat of 
Ovens —How Bread should be Baked — Baking by Steam— Bak- 
ing Temperature— How to Determine It — Pyrometers — "De- 
grees" of the Oven — How to Determine when Bread is Done 
in the Centre— Loss of Weight in Baking— Form of Loaf — 
Prechtl's Experiments — How to Make Bread of Legal Weight 
— French Bread — Cause of its Sweetness— Expansion of Bread 
in Baking — Chemical Reasons— Assamar — Action of the Latter 
— How to Prevent the Formation of Hard Crusts on the Loaf- 
Gum, Gluten and Starch— Crust and Crumb — Fresh and Stale 
Bread— How to Restore Stale Bread— Quantify of Water Bread 
will Retain — Three Reasons Therefor — How to Increase the 
Moisture in Bread — ^Rice and Potato Flour — Underbaking— 
Sacks— Salt— Proper Proportion of Moisture in Bread- Test 
for the Detection of Abnormal Moisture in Bread — Simple 
Formula for the Operation— The Percentage of Moisture in 
Normal Bread— Well Baked Bread— Its Essential Qualities- 
Prof. Graham's Views— Sour Dough- -Different Causes for the 
Same— How to Remedy it in Each Case— The Use of Alkalies 
— Bi-carbonate of Soda — Carbonate of Ammonia — Carbonate of 
Magnesia— Salt to Whiten Bread— Its Excessive Use — Alum- 
How its Presence may be Detected — Blue Vitriol — The Use of 
such Substances should be Prevented — Use of Deteriorated 
Flours — How Flour Deteriorates — How Deterioration can be 
Prevented — Liebig's Experiments — Lime- Water — How to Make 
it — Small Proportion of Lime — ^To Make Bread with Lime- 
Water— Liebig's Remarks— Loaf Cakes — How to Mix — General 
Directions and Exceptions — How to Bake — How to Keep — Soft 
Sweet Biscuits — Their Nature — ^How Lightened — How Mixed 
and Flavored — Crackers— Made by Macbinery— Mixing, Break- 
ing, Cuttiug and Baking— Cracker Dough — Different Grades of 
Flour Used— Size and Lightness of Sweet and Fancy Biscuits — 
The Manufacture of the Best Goods Recommended — General 
Directions foi the Baking of Cakes and Crackers, 

The making of bread is not alonean art, but also a 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SGISNOB AND ABT OF BREAD-BAKING. 39 

sdenee, abstruse chemical principles entering into its every 
process. The various operations through which bread 
passes frcnn the time it is made into a sponge, until baked, 
are very numerous, and none of them should be unnatur- 
ally hurried. To make bread it is necessary to have good 
flour or meal, good yeast or leaven, and water, with a suflft- 
cient quantity of salt. Various other admixtures are made 
with milk, butter and eggs, to confer a greater* whiteness 
or richness on the loaf, but none of the three first men- 
tioned can be omitted under any circumstances. From the 
foregoing remarks of Prof. Graham on the chemistry of 
bread making, the intelligent baker will readily under- 
stand that the fermenting principle upon which the light- 
ness of his loaf depends is not inert matter, but a sensitive 
vegetable that requires a certain time, a certain tempera- 
ture, besides other equally imperative conditions in which 
to thrive and expand. He will therefore the better appre- 
ciate that the more closely all these conditions are adhered 
to, the better will be his bread. For instance, the yeast, 
the flour and the water, besides being of good quality, 
should all be as nearly as practicable of the same tempera- 
ture when mixed together, and the bake-house be kept at 
the same degree of warmth, and perfectly free from draught. 
Hence the necessity of haying at hand a correct thermom- 
eter to see that all these conditions are properly observed. 
Bread is usually baked by heat radiated or conducted 
from the brick walls or iron plates of which ovens are 
made. The oven should be so constructed that the heat 
may be equal in its different parts, and remain constant for 
a considerable time. If the heat be insufficient, the bread 
will be soft, wet and pasty; if on the other hand the heat be 
too great at first, a thick burnt crust is produced, forming 
a non-conducting carbonized covering to the loaf, which 
prevents the heat from penetrating to the interior. Hence 
a burnt outside is often accompanied by half-raw dough 
within. If, however, the temperature be properly piopor- 
tioned, the heat passes to the interior of the loaf and produces 
the necessary changes before the outside becomes thick- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



40 SCIENCE AND ART OP BRfeAD-BAKINa. 

ly crusted. If we cut open a well baked loaf, immediately 
from the oven, and bury the bulb of a thermometer in the 
crumb, it will rise to 212° ( Fahr). This heat is sufficient to 
carry on the inner chemical changes of baking, and it is 
obvious that the heat cannot rise above this point so long as 
the loaf contains moisture. Bread might be baked at a 
temperature of 212*' (by steam), but then it would lack 
that indispensable part, the crust. The baking temperature 
of the oven ranges from 350° to 450° or 500°, and bakers have 
various means of judging about it.* If fresh Hour strewn 
on the oven bottom, turns brown, the heat is right; if it 
chars or turns black, the heat is too great. As to what are 
technically called the degrees of the oven, the laborious ex- 
planations as given of them in some works, may well be 
reduced to three; viz: 1st. sAarpand quick; 2nd. moderate, 
as used for large or solid articles such as wedding cakes, 
etc.; 3d. cool or alack. Different bakings will frequently 
vary as to time and heat required, and should therefore be 
examined occasionally where this is practicable. A com- 
mon method of ascertaining whether bread is sufficiently 
baked in the centre of the loaf or cake, is to thrust a 
clean straw or long splinter into it; if done, there will be 
no dough adhering to it when drawn out. 

The loaf loses in baking a portion of its weight by evap- 
oration. The quantity thus lost depends chiefly upon the 
size and form of the loaf. If it be small or thin, it will part 
with more water in proportion than if of cubical shape. 
Something depends upon the quality of the flour and the 
consistence of the dough. Various experiments would 
seem to show that bread parts with from 1.6 to 1.10th of its 
weight in baking. In those places where bread is required 
by law to be of a certain weight, this loss must be calculated 
upon and a proportionateamount of additional flour added. 
Prechtl states from experience that loaves which, after 
baking and drying, weigh Ifc, require that an extra weight 
be taken, in dough of 6 ozs; if the loaves are to weigh 3 lbs, 

♦The heat of the oven can now be regulated by means of a Pyrometer; 
for description of which, see chapter on machinery. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



i 



SCIENCE AND ART OF BREAD-BAKING. 41 

12 ozs. additional must be taken ; and if 6 lbs, 16 ozs. As a 
general rule French bread is always sweet and good, and 
two tilings contribute, in a great degree, to this — that is the 
manner and form of baking. They never make a thick 
loaf; no matter what the size or shape, it is always thin, 
and more than two-thirds crust. They bake their bread 
until it is perfectly cooked. The loaves being so thin, the 
heat strikes til rough them very soon after they are placed 
in the oven; heiice all the fermentation is stopped; while 
in the ease of large loaves fermentation continues to go on 
after the bread has been in the oven for some time, and, of 
course, much of the sweetness is lost. Then, in baking so 
long, and having so much crust, there is a peculiar sweetr 
ness given which can be attained in no other way. 

When the loaf is exposed to the heat of the oven it swells 
to about twice its size. This is owing to the expansion of 
the carbonic acid gas contained in its porous spaces, the 
conversion of water into steam, and the vaporization of 
alcohol, which also rises into the gaseous form and is 
driven off, as is shown by the spiritous odor yielded in the 
baking process. The heat of the oven falling upon the 
surface of the loaf besides causing the rapid evaporation of 
its water, produces a disorganization of the dough. The 
starch grains are ruptured and its substance converted in- 
to gum ; as the roasting continues chemical decomposition 
goes on, and organic matter is produced of a brown color, 
an agreeable bitter taste and soluble in water, which has 
received the name of Assamar, According to Reichenbuch 
the assamar has decided influence in retarding the waste 
of tissue ; it does not alter the starch of the crumb or inter- 
nal part, but only swells the granules, and by the induced 
sponginess of the mass renders it readily digestible. The 
formation of hard crust on the loaf may, however, be pre- 
vented by baking it in a covered tin ; or, it is said, by rub- 
bing a little melted lard over it, after it is shaped, and be- 
fore it is set down to rise. 

As the temperature within the loaf does not rise above 
212®, no changes can go on there except such as are produced 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



^ SCIENCE AND ART OF BREAD'S AKINCK 

by the heat of the aqueous vapor. This is sufficient to stop 
the fermentatioD, destroy the bitter principle of the yeast, 
and kill the yeast-plant. In baking, about l-14th of the 
starch is converted into gum, and the residue is not chemi- 
cally altered, as may be shown by moistening a little bread 
crumb and touching it with a solution of iodine, when the 
blue color will proclaim the presence of starch. The gluten, 
although not decomposed, is disunited, losing its tough, 
adhesive qualities. The gluten and starch paste are inti- 
mately mixed, but they do not unite to form a chemical 
compound. 

In new baked bread the crust is dry and crisp, while the 
crumb is soft and moist, but after a short time this con- 
dition of things is quite reversed. The brown products of 
the roasting process attract moisture, and the crust gets 
daily softer, while the crumb becomes dry. Bread, two or 
three days old, loses its softness, becoming hard and 
crumby. But this apparent dryness is not caused by evap- 
oration or loss of water, for It may be shown by careful 
weighing that stale bread contains exactly the same pro- 
portion of water as new bread that has become perfectly 
cold. The change to dryness seems to be one of combina- 
tion going on among the atoms of water and bread. That 
the moisture has only passed into a state of concealment 
may be shown by exposing a stale loaf in a closely covered 
tin for half an hour to a boiling heat, when it will again 
have the appearance of new bread. The quantity of water 
which well-baked wheat bread contains amounts on an 
average to a little over one third. The bread we eat is 
therefore both meat and drink together. One of the reasons 
why bread retains so much water is, that during the baking 
a portion of the starch is converted into gum, which holds 
water more strongly than starch does. A second is, that , 
the gluten of the flour when once thoroughly wet is very 
difficult to dry again, and that it forms a tenacious coat- 
ing round every little hollow cell in the bread, which coat- 
ing does not readily allow the gas contained in the cell to 
escape, or the water to dry up and pass off in vapor;— and 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SCIENCE AND ART OP BREAD-BAKING. 45 

a third reason is, that the dry crust which forms round 
bread in baking is nearly impervious to water, and like 
the skins of potatoes we bake in the oven or. in the hot 
cinders, prevents the moisture from escaping. 

There are various artificial means the dishonest baker 
employs to increase the amount of water in bread. Of 
these, one is by the use of rice Hour or potato starch, either 
of which will absorb more water than wheat fiour ; another 
is, after having incorporated as much water in the dough 
as possible, is to put it in an oven which causes the crust to 
form speedily whereby the escape of water is prevented. 
This same object is in a manner attained by throwing sacks 
over the loaves when removed from the oven, thus pre- 
venting part of the evaporation, although the crust thereby 
suffers the loss of crispness. Salt also has much the same 
effect as alum in not only making bread white and firm, 
but also in enabling the flour to produce a greater weight 
of bread from a given amount of the raw material. In view 
of the above it is therefore satisfactory to know that means 
have been discovered by which the presence of surplus 
moisture in bread can be detected by even those who are 
not skilled in chemical analysis. So far as can be under- 
stood after recent investigation, thirty-five per cent, of 
moisture is about the correct quantity that a loaf should 
contain, and more than forty per cent, is excessive. Of 
course it is extremely profitable to the baker to make hi& 
bread too moist, as by this means he can increase its weight 
to an almost indefinite extent; but the system, although 
profitable to him, may be very injurious to the public. 
According to experiments made, it would appear that a 
formula may be drawn up which is very nearly perfect in 
its operation, and which is as follows : ** The samplp of 
bread which is carefully deprived of crust— which is cut 
away — and, that having been done, the bread is crumbled 
into small crumbs about the size of mustard seed. In order 
to get a fair average sample, some 50 grammes (about 2 oz.) 
of bread should be crumbled; but the actual drying is 
carried out on a much smaller quantity — viz: on 6.0O 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



44 SCIENCE AND ART OF BREAD-BAKING. 

grammes. A good sized platinum dish— weighing 50 to 100 
grammes—is then charged with 6.00 grammes of bread 
crumbs, which are spread out in a thin layer in the dish. 
The dish, with its contents, is then transferred to the water- 
bath and maintained at a temperature of 212° (Fahr.) for 
two hours, and then it is wiped externally, cooled, and 
rapidly weighed. The loss in weight is the quantity of 
water yielded by 5.00 grammes of the sample of bread, and 
when multiplied by twenty gives the percentage of mois- 
ture in the bread. By rigidly restricting the operation of 
drying to temperatures not exceeding 212° ( Fahr.) all risk 
of scorching is avoided. By specifying the time, viz: two 
hours, we save a great deal of trouble and avoid uncer- 
tainty. Bread crust, as might be expected contains less 
moisture than the crumb. As a necessary consequence of 
this, the figure for tbe moisture of the crumb will be a little 
larger than for the mixed crust and crumb. We fix 35 
for the percentage of moisture in the crumb of normal 
bread.** 

In baking bread, it is desirable to avoid the evils of 
hardness on the one hand and pastiness on the other; nor 
should it be sour, dense or heavy. It should have thor- 
ough and uniform kneading, so that the carbonic acid will 
not be liberated in excess in any one place, forming hol- 
lows, or **eyes," and detaching the crumb from the crust. 
The vesicles should be numerous, small and equally dis- 
seminated, nor should the crust be bitter and black, but of 
an aromatic agreeable flavor. The color of the crumb, 
unless in the case of whole wheat en bread, should be 
white, and should be free from acidity or sourness. It 
should keep sweet and eatable for several days; and when 
stale, it will be found to become t-oft and pleasant by again 
heating it in an oven, after whi h it rapidly changes. 
According to Prof. Graham, '*If the yeast be so diffused 
throughout the whole mass as that a suitable portion of it 
will act on each and every particle of the saccharine mat- 
ter at the same time, and if the dou -h be of such consis- 
tency and temperature as not to admit of too rapid a fer- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SCIENCE AND ART OF BREAD-BAKINO. 45 

mentation, then each minute particle of saccharine matter 
throughout the whole mass will, in the process of fermen- 
tation, produce its little volume of air, which will form its 
little cell, about the size of a pin's head and smaller, and 
tnis will take place at so nearly the same time in every 
part of the dough, that the whole will be raised and made 
as light as a sponge before the acetous fermentation takes 
place in any part. And then, if it be properly moulded 
and baked, it will make the most beautiful and delicious 
bread, perfectly light and sweet, without the use of any 
alkali, and with all the gluten and nearly all the starch of 
the meal remaining unchanged by fermentation.*' 

It frequently happens in the making of bread that the 
dough becomes acid. Dough sometimes sours from an acid 
condition of the flour, or it may be in this condition from 
a sour state of the yeast ; again, the fermentation may be 
so feeble as to produce acid, or it may be too active and 
rapid, if too much or too strong yeast has been used ; or, 
Anally, in hot weather, dough is liable to sour by running 
into the acetous fermentation. If the difficulty arises 
from too sluggish a change, it should be hastened by secur- 
ing the natural fermentation warmth ; if on the contrary, 
it is too violent, it must be checked by uncovering the 
dough and exposing it to the air in a cool place. When 
acetous fermentation ensues, as not unfrequently happens 
in baking, the dough may be sweetened by alkaline sub- 
stances. Bi-carbonate of soda will answer this purpose. 
Carbonate of ammonia is perhaps better, as it is a volatile 
salt, and is raised in vapor and expelled by the heat of the 
oven. If too much be used, a portion of the exce.-^s is 
driven off by the heat, and in escaping, assists in making 
the bread lighter. Caution should however be taken to use no 
more alkali than is necessary to neutralize the acid. When 
the acidity is but slight, it may be remedied by simply 
kneading the dough with the fingers moistened with an 
alkaline solution. When the dough has become sour from 
the fermentation proceeding too far, or from the flour being 
of inferior quality, the addition of about 1 oz carbonate of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



46 SCIENCE AND ART OP BREAD-BAKING. 

magnesia to every 16 fts of dough will neutralize the acidity 
as well as when it arises from the sourness of the yeast. 

It has been found that certain mineral substances influ- 
■ence in a remarkable degree the aspect and properties of 
bread, causing that made of inferior fiour to resemble,^ 
appearance, bread made from the best quality. Common 
salt produces this effect in a decided degree. It whitens 
the bread and causes it to absorb and retain a larger 
amount of water than the flour would ordinarily hold. In 
consequence of this influence, and under cover of the fact, 
that salt is a genially admitted element of diet, it is often 
introduced into bread more freely than is consistent with 
health. Alum has a similar efl'ect, but in a much more 
marked degree. A small quantity of it ( from 3 to 5 ozs to 
the barrel) will bring up a bad flour to the whiteness of the 
best sort, and will enable it to hold an .extra dose of water. 
It has been much used for this purpose, but the baker who 
•employs it is not only practicing upon his customer a 
•double imposition, but is drugging him at the same time 
with a highly injurious mineral. The presence of alum in 
bread may be readily detected by adding a little chloride of 
barium, or lime water, or a little water of ammonia, either 
of which will produce a white precipitate. The highly 
poisonous sulphate of copper (blue vitriol), exerts a similar 
influence upon bread that alum does, and has also been 
used by the dishonest baker to increase his profits at the 
-expense of the health of his customers.' All such hurtful 
ingredients should be banished from every respectable 
bakery, and we trust the time is not far distant when both 
law and public opinion will unite to prevent their use. 

However it may be lamented, it is nevertheless the fact 
that enormous quantities of flour, more or less deteriorated 
are purchased in the markets ; if, therefore, there be any 
method of improving its condition by means that are not 
essentially injurious, these are certainly most desirable. 
Indeed, it is well-known that flour is injured by time alone, 
so that freshly ground flour is always more prized than 
that which is several months old. The scientific reason is 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SOTENCB AND ART OF BREAD-BAKING. 47 

apparent. Vegetable gluten in contact with water becomes 
chemically changed, and loses its peculiar tough properties. 
As these are essential to bread-making, flour that has been 
altered in this way necessarily makes bad dough. Now, 
flour is in a high degree a water-absorbing substance, so 
much so that it attracts and combines with the moisture of 
the air and is thus injured. This can only be avoided by 
artiflcial drying and protecting thoroughly from the air. 
The eflfect of the substances noticed in the previous para- 
graphs is to combine with the gluten thus partially changed, 
and in a manner to restore its lost properties. Upon in- 
vestigating this subject, Liebig found that lime-water is 
capable of producing this effect, and thus of partly im- 
proving old, or low grade flour. 

To make lime-water chemists usually employ water that 
has been distilled; very pure soft water, as clean as rain 
water may, however, be used. Mix J fe of slacked lime in 
a gallon of such cold water in a stoppered bottle or vessel 
kept tight from the air. The mass of the lime falls to the 
bottom, leaving the liquid above, which has dissolved 
l-600th of its weight of lime, clear and transparent. This 
is to be poured off when required for use and replaced by 
pure water. Liebig recommends 6 lbs or pints of lime-water 
to every 19 lbs of flour, although this quantity of lime-water 
does not suffice for mixing the bread, and of course common 
water must be added as much as is required. " If the lime- 
water be mixed with flour intended for the dough, and 
then the yeast added, fermentation progresses in the same 
manner as in the absence of lime-water. If at the proper 
time more flour be added to the risen or fermented dough, 
and the whole formed into loaves and baked as usual, a 
sweet, beautiful, flne-grained, elastic bread is obtained of 
exquisite taste, which is prefered by all who have eaten it 
for any length of time." ( Liebig.) The use of lime-water 
removes all acid from the dough, and also somewhat aug- 
ments the proportion of water it absorbs. The quantity 
of lime introduced into the system by the use of this bread 
is by no means large. A pound of lime-water suffices for 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



48 SCIENCE AND ART OP BREAD-BAKING. 

4 fi)8 of flour, which, with the common water added, yields 
6 lbs of bread ; and as the pound of lime-water contains but 
l-600th of lime, with this artificially added, the cereal 
grains still contain less of it than peas or beans. Indeed, 
Liebig has said that experience may yet prove the cereal 
grains to be incapable of perfect nutrition on account of 
their small proportion of bone- forming elements. 

LOAF CAKES. 

These should most generally be mixed rather stiff. The 
flour, of course, must be entirely moistened, and the liquid 
well mixed with the dry ingredients ; but when it is re- 
membered that the fat in cakes will melt, and the sugar 
be dissolved, it will be seen that an abundance of moisture 
is not required. In mixing cakes, as a general rule, to 
which, however, there are exceptions, the butter and the 
sugar should be rubbed together to a very light cream ; the 
eggs ( well beaten ) should be added one or two at a time, 
beating a few minutes between each addition ; lastly the 
flour, sifted with powders, spices, flavorings, etc., and the 
whole made into a consistent batter with water, milk, etc. 
To secure tenderness and delicacy the flour measure should 
always be on the side of scantiness. The ingredients of 
the cake should be beat thoroughly together before the last 
of the flour is mixed in, for cake is not much benefited by 
a beating after the flour is added. Loaf cakes should be 
covered with a paper cap when flrst put in the oven, to 
prevent scorching the tops, and the bottom is not likely 
to burn where the pans are lined with buttered paper. 
When baked, cakes should be kept in close tin canisters, 
or jars, and in a dry place; those made with yeast do not 
keep as long as those made without it. 

SOFT SWEET BISCUIT. 

These are generally rich in butter and saccharine matter, 
as well as in albumen; in consequence of the quantity of 
eggs which are used to give them a full flavor and a deep, 
rich color. Spices and essences are also added to suit the 
taste. For inferior biscuits; tartaric acid, super-carbonate 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SCIENCE AND ART OP BREAD-BAKING. 49 

of soda, or ammonia, are added to give the lightness wliich 
the butter communicates to the better variety. In mixing 
these biscuits, the eggs and sugar (finely ground) are beaten 
together at a temperature of 100 degrees (Fahr.) till the 
mixture has a pasty appearance, and is distended with air- 
bubbles. The flour and butter are then mingled together 
in the dry state, and the egg paste incorporated with it by 
suitable means. (See Soft Cake and Jumble Machines.) 
The flavorings are added either in the form of powders ; 
or their extracts or essential oils, the latter of the two, how- 
ever, being employed with better success. 

CRACKERS. 

The ingredients of which these are composed are most 
generally mixed by machinery, it being no longer proflta- 
ble to make crackers by hand-labor. In this country at 
leasts the art of making crackers by hand is virtually out 
of date. When butter or lard are used, they are intimately 
mixed with the flour in the dry state ; then the milk or 
water in which the sugar may be dissolved, and the whole 
made into a dough by a kneading or mixing machine ; 
after which the dough is passed through a heavy break, the 
operation of which somewhat resembles that of a wringing 
machine. The dough is now transferred to the cutting, or 
cracker machine, where it is dusted, passed under cutters, 
stamped and cut into shapes, and in some machines the 
crackers are delivered into the oven on pans, to be baked. 
To give additional lightness to crackers, sesqui-carbonate of 
ammonia or other similar chemicals are added, but these 
are more employed in the yeast biscuits, or those the dough 
of which is subject to fermentation. All fancy crackers, 
except cream crackers, should be doughed over night; in- 
deed it is better for most all cracker mixtures, except those 
containing an excess of soda, to stand a few hours before 
passing them through the break. 

There are many grades of flour employed in Cracker- 
making; these, however, must be used with judgment, 
according to the quality of the goods the baker desires to 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



60 SCIENCE AND AttT OF BREAD-BAKING. 

turn out. We would recommend the making of only A 1 
goods, and the employment of the best materials that cir- 
cumstances will permit. There are, however, certain man- 
ufacturers who cater to the demands of cheaper custom, and 
who deem it to their interest to make Inferior goods. 
Again, the baker frequently wishes to make Sweet or 
Fancy biscuits, etc., of a certain size and lightness, so that 
they will turn out a specified number to the pound ; this is 
often effected by using an excess of alkaline chemicals. 
The best that can be said of such expedients, is, that they 
are objectionable. Make a good article and ask a fair price 
for it, is, we think, a surer and more profitable road to suc- 
cess. 

The temperature of the oven in baking crackers, cakes, 
etc., should be such as to give the materials a nice brown 
color without burning them. Biscuits containing much 
sugar, should not be raised to as high a heat as those which 
are without it, because the sugar would be apt to be cara- 
malized, destroying the beauty of the product. 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CHAPTEE IV. 

WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 

Varieties of Wheat— Japanese Wheat — Alterations by Cultivation — 
Mythological Introdnction and History of Wheat— Cultivation 
in Europp, in England, in India — Introduction into America 
by the Spanish — Cultivation in Virp:inia, in New England, etc. 
— Avei-age Yield of Wheat— Specific Gravity — Percentage of 
Flour— Distinctions in Wheat— Red or White — Bearded or 
Beardless— Winter or Summer — Soft or Hard — Composition of 
Wheat — Tabular Analysis — Flesh-formers and Ht at-givers — 
Macaroni — Vermicelli — Pates d'ltalie — Sea - biscuit — Gluten 
and Starch — Advantages of Wheat over other Cereals— Crude 
Gluten- Preparation of Wheat— Frumity— Structure of Wheat 
Grains — Separation of the Bran — Child's " Decorticator " — 
Mege Mouries' Plan — High Milling— Separation of Wheat and 
Bran — Classification and Proportions — Tails — Middlings — 
Sharps — Pollard — Diflference in Mill-products — "Patent" Flour 
— Cheraicnl Differencfs and Analysis — Analysis of Fine Flour — 
Nutritive Power of Wheat — Analysis of Coarse Bran — Nutritive 
Constituents of Bran — Cerealin— Prof. Graham's Ideas of Good 
Milling — Removal of the Germ and of the Bran — Reasons 
Therefor — Objections Answered — Indige^tibility of Bran — Ir- 
ritant Particles — Their Action — Albuminoid Ferment in Bran 
— Errors of the Analyst and Phybician in Regard to Bran— 
Liebig's Ideas — Poggiale's Opinions— Profs. Voit and Rathey's 
Experiments — Aim of Modern Milling — Whole Meal Flour, 
a Delusion— Small Proportion of Phosphates in Wheat — Ad- 
mixture of Wheats— Its Object— Red and White Wheats— Dif- 
ferences- Effect of Climate on Wheat— Strong Wheat— Absorp- 
tion of Water — Proportion of Bread from Flour — Sensitiveness 
of Flour— How it Should be Kept — Temperature — Sifting. 

The varieties of wheat are almost numberless, and their 
characters vary widely under the influence of cultivation 
and climate. There are said to be 180 distinct varieties in 
the museum of Cornell university. On the slopes of the 
mountains of Mexico and Xalapa the luxuriance of vegeta- 
tion is such that wheat does not form ears. In Japan, it is 
said, the wheat has been so developed by the Japanese 
farmers, that no matter how much manure is used, the 
straw will not grow larger, though the length of the ears 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



52 WHEAT AND WHEATEN FI/)UB, 

increases. The height is rarely more than two feet, and 
often not more than twenty inches. Through selection, 
winter wheat has been changed to summer wheat in three 
years, and summer wheat converted in the same time to 
winter wheat. In general, wheat is the most esteemed of 
the cereal productions; but in Abyssinia, according to Par- 
Isyns, the flour of the "teff ^' or ** dugassa,'' scarcely palata- 
ble to Europeans, is preferred by the natives to any other 
grain. Isis was supposed to have introduced wheat into 
Egypt, Demeter into Greece, and the Emperor Chin-Wong 
into China, about 3,000 B. C. In Europe it was cultivated 
before the period of history, as samples have been recovered 
from the lacustrine dwellings of Switzerland. In England 
it was probably not cultivated by the ancient Britons, but 
the Anglo-Saxons, when Bede wrote, early in the eighth 
century, sowed their wheat in the spring, and in the 
days of Queen Elizabeth, its cultivation was but par- 
tial. Indeed, wheat was an article of comparative lux- 
ury till nearly the seventeenth century. In India, wheat 
seems not to be native, but introduced, as its San- 
scrit name signifies, ** food of the barbarian ; " yet three 
varieties are mentioned in the Bhavaprakasa, one of which, 
a large-grained, is said to have come from the West, and 
another, a small-grained or beardless wheat, is said to have 
been indigenous to Middle India. The first wheat raised 
in the **New World," was sown by Spaniards on the isl- 
and of Isabella, in January, 1494; and on March 30th, the 
ears were gathered. The foundation of the wheat harvest 
of Mexico is said to have been tliree or four grains carefully 
cultivated in 1530, and preserved by a slave of Cortez. The 
crop of Quito was raised by a Franciscan Monk in front of 
the convent. Garei lasso de la Verga affirms that in Peru, 
up to 1517, wlieaten bread had not been sold at Cusijo. 
Wheat was firstsown by Gosnold on Cuttyhunk, one of the 
Elizabeth islands in Buzzard's bay, off Massachusetts, in 
1602, when he first explored the coast. In 1604, on the isl- 
and of St. Croix, near Calais, Me., the Sieur de Monts, had 
some wheat sown, which flourished, finely. In 1611, the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 53 

first wheat appears to have been sown in Virginia. In 
1626, samples of wheat grown in the Dutch colony at New 
Netherlands, were shown in Holland. It is probable that 
wheat was sown in the Plymouth colony prior to 1629, 
though we find no record of it, and in 1629 wheat was ord- 
ered from En;»iand to be used as seed. In 1718 wheat was 
introduced into the valiey of the Mississippi by the ''West- 
ern Company.'' In 1799 it was among the cultivated crops 
of the Simos Indians of the Gela river, Mexico. 

The average yield of an acre of land should be about 30 
bushels of wheat grain, the bushel weighing 60 lbs. In 
wet seasons the weight of a bushel of wheat grain may be 
as low as 55 lbs.; while in good years it may rise to 64 lbs. 
A plump, rounded, white, smooth grain, without wrinkles, 
gives the heaviest weight per bushel. Wheat grain varies 
in specific gravity betweeu 1.29 and 1.41, the harder wheats 
being the denser. The proportion of grain to straw is 
greatest in dry years— perhaps the average may be stated 
as 4 to 10. Good wheat ought to furnish at least 74 per cent, 
of fine fiour. The best samples often furnish 75 to 80 per 
cent., and in a few r^re instances as much as 86 per cent, of 
flour has been obtained. Inferior varieties seldom produce 
more than 68 per cent., and in instances only 54 to 56 per 
cent, of fiour has been obtained from bad samples. On an 
average, wheat may be said to yield 75 per cent, of fine 
flour, and 25 per cent, of bran and middlings. In many 
cases the distinctions between the different varieties of 
wheat are very slight, the most important being those 
which refer to the composition of the grain ; but it will be 
found that these do not always agree with the outward 
characters of the grain or the ear. Wheats are generally 
characterized by some such terms as the following : Red or 
white, in reference to the color of the grains; Bearded or 
beardless, that is with or without an awn ; Winter or sum- 
raf.r, the former being sown in autumn, the latter in spring; 
Soft or hard, the soft wheats being tender and fioury ; the 
hard being tough, firm, and horn-lilse in appearance. This 
last distinction is the most important, as it corresponds to 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



54 WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 

a real difference of chemical constituents and of feeding 
value. The composition of wheat grain shows some varia- 
tions, but they are limited to the relative proportions of 
starch and nitrogenous matters. Soft, white, and tender 
varieties of wheat, consisting entirely of opaque grains, 
may not contain more than 8 or 9 per cent, of albuminoids, 
while hard and traoslucent sorts, such as those grown for 
the manufacture of macaroni, have been found to contain 
from 18 to 20 per cent. The starch in these latter grains is 
proportionately reduced. But differences of wheat grain 
show themselves with the same variety of wheat, when It 
has been grown under different conditions. In fine, dry sea- 
sons the starch being Increased, and the albuminoids dimin- 
ished, and the reverse being the case In wet summers. 
Even In the grains from a single ear, the same differences 
may be often seen — analysis showing sometimes 4 per cent, 
more albuminoids In some of such grains than In others. 
It Is difficult to fix upon a set of figures which shall fairly 
represent the average composition of wheat grain. But 
the following analysis may be taken as showing the pro- 
portions of the main constituents In a good sample of white 
wheat : 

COMPOSITION OF WHEAT. 

InlOO parts. In lib. 

02. gr. 

Water 14.6 2 140 

Albuminoids, chiefly fibrin 11.0 1 332 

Starch, with trace of dextrin 69 11 17 

Fat 1.2 84 

Cellulose and lignose 2.6 182 

Mineral matter, or ash 1.7 119 

According to this analysis wheat contains one part of fiesh- 
formers to six and one-half parts heat-givers, reckoned as 
starch. And If we assume that all the albuminoid matter < 
present could be so used, not more than If ozs of the dry 
nitrogenous substance of muscle or fiesh could be produced 
from 1 fi> of wheat grain, such as Is represented by the 
above analysis. The long, hard, translucent wheats grown 
In some of the hotter parts of Europe might furnish twice 
as much flesh-forming material from an equal weight of 
grain. Macaroni, vermicelli, pates d' Italic and similar 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 65 

preparations are made from highly nitrogenous wheat.--. 
Macaroni, vermicelli, sea-biscuit, pilot-bread, plain 
crackers and common bread are all about alike in composi- 
tion and nutriment ; the first two differing in the size of 
the tubes, both being made alike, and both are simply 
dried dough made of flour and water only, the same as 
pilot or sea-bread and plain crackers. The wheat grown 
in Southern Europe contains more gluten and less starch 
than any other, and therefore makes better macaroni. 
This gluten is nitrogenous, like lean meat, casein or curd 
of milk (cheese), etc., and strengthens one's muscles more 
than the more starchy northern flour. Starch is carbon- 
aceous,*suppIying material for producing fat and for pro- 
moting warmth in the system. Millions of people in Italy 
use macaroni as their chief, if not sole food, the year 
round — the gluten answeriug for the lean meat consumed 
by other people to produce muscular strength or working 
power. Sea-biscuits, pilot bread and plain crackers, those 
without ** shortening'' of butter or lard, are simply flour 
and water worked into a tough dough and baked instead 
of being air or sun dried as macaroni and vermicelli are. 
They are usually made of northern grown wheat, contain- 
tng more starch and less gluten than macaroni. 

There are several reasons why wheat is preferred to 
other cereal grasses for use as food. The grain is easily 
separated from the palece or chaff, which do not adhere to 
it as in the case of barley, oats, rice, etc. Then the yield 
of fine white flour, when wheat is ground in the mill, is 
very large. Wh eaten flour, too, is readily made into a 
light and spongy bread. The chemical constituents of the 
wli^at grain are likewise so proportioned as to render this 
food well fitted for tlie general sustenance of man, both as 
regards its fiesh-forming and heat-producing character. 
Again, wheat is remarkably rich in those forms of album- 
inoids which do not dissolve in water, and which agglu- 
tinate together, and it is on account of the viscid resisting 
nature of its gluten that it is pre-eminently fitted to lend 
itself to the action of carbonic acid in raising and piling 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



1 



66 WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 

the loaf, whereas the other cereals are very inefficient in 
that respect. If you take good wheat flour, and knead it 
with water, you will gradually get rid of the starch, and 
the gluten will cohere in a sticky, adhesive mass. Of 
cour e, if you work it sufficiently long, you get rid of the 
whole of the starch, and what remains is called crude 
gluten. The crude gluten, when moistened with water, 
coheres — its particles join together with considerable force. 
The value in bread-making of this peculiar properly is no 
doubt manifest to all. If you have a body of such an 
elastic nature, it will entangle the carbonic acid produced 
by the action of the yeast on the starch, and the carbonic 
acid being entangled in this way, will raise the whole 
mass. An abundance of these albuminoids is therefore 
necessary to good bread-making. 

At the present day wheat grain is nearly always pre- 
pared by some mechanical process or other before it is 
eaten as human food. Frumity, however, once popular in 
England and still occasionally seen in Yorkshire, was 
made from whole wheat grain, soaked in water and then 
boiled in milk. By grinding wheat between mill-stones 
meal is produced, and this by sifting, winnowing and re- 
grinding is separated into a number of mill products diflfer- ' 
ing, not only in the size of the particles of which they are 
made up, but also in their chemical composition. To 
understand this we must examine the structure of the 
wheat grain, which is in reality a fruit, consisting of a seed 
and its coverings. All the middle part of the grain is oc- 
cupied by large, thin cells full of a powdery substance, 
which is nearly white and opaque in soft wheats. This 
part contains much starch— indeed, nearly all the starch 
of the grain. Outside the central starchy mass is a single 
row of squarish cells, filled with a yellowish material very 
rich in nitrogenous — that is, flesh-forming matter. Beyond 
this, again, there are six thin coverings or coats containing 
much mineral matter. This mineral matter contains both 
potash and phosphates. It should be added that the outer- 
most coat of the above named six coats is the least 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 57 

valuable, and in some processes of milling is removed by a 
previous operation. In Childs* *'Deeorticator/' for ex- 
ample, this thin bran, together with the germ of the grain,' 
is first of all removed. In the process of Mege Mouries, 
also, this thin and poor outer coat is removed, but by a 
different plan, the grain being first damped and then 
rubbed. What then will be the effect of grinding upon 
grain having the structure just described? Grinding may 
be described as a process in which squeezes and blows are 
united. In pressing or squeezing wheat you may powder 
the interior and yet not break up the exterior parts ; by 
blows you may divide the germ into a number of small 
fragments— a course meal in which the white central por- 
tion of the grain is not reduced to powder. Now, there are 
several modes of milling or grinding wheat, differing 
mainly in the preponderance of one or the other of these 
two actions of squeezing or cracking. By alterations in the 
distance between the stones, and by differences in the 
modes of scoring (dressing) them, as well as in their direc- 
tion and rate of motion, mill-products of different qualities 
are obtainable. The methods of **high milling" have, 
however, become so complicated that it would be im- 
possible to describe here the scores of operations, including 
many regrindings and siftings to which the grain is 
submitted. 

In the ordinary process of milling, the wheat meal is 
produced in one grinding, and is then separated into three 
or more different products. In some flour mills the separa- 
tion of the various qualities is far more thoroughly carried 
out than in others. The following is a classified list of the 
chief products of a flour mill, with the average quantities 

of each product obtained from 100 lbs of good white wheat; 

ft«. 

Finest flour 42 

•m^,,* J ^' Seconds flour 18 

Flour. Sa Biscuit flour 9 



■■%. 

^9. 



Tails, or trailinga 8 

5. Middlings, or fine sharps 8 

6. Coarse sharps 8 

Bran. \ 7. Fine pollard 8 

Coarse pollard., 6 

Long bran 8 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



58 WHEAT AND WH EATEN FLOUR. 

It must be recollected that the above quantities are merely 
given as rough approximations, while the names applied 
vary in different parts of the country, and in different 
mills. The first three qualities, or ** wires," for instance, 
are often sold together as ** fine flour," while the quantity 
of this product is further raised (to 80 per cent, of the 
whole taken) by redressing the tailings and regrinding the 
middlings,* — which latter may be said to form a kind of 
link between flour and bran. There are some mills where 
only three different degrees of fineness are recognized — fiour, 
middlings and bran. 

As the chemical differences between the various mill- 
products are not all of equal value, we may select a few 
facts regarding their components from the number which 
have been accumulated. The cellulose and lignose, as well 
as the mineral matter and fibrin, are least in the fine flour. 
The fibrin is greatest in the pollard, and the mineral mat- 
ter in the long bran. It will thus be evident that fine flour 
is inferior to pollard in bone-forming and flesh-forming 
nutrients. The following table makes this clear, showing 
how rich in these nutrients all these mill-products are 
which consist chiefly of the covering of the seed. The 
toughness of these coverings is, of course, the reason why 
they are not reduced to a flue powder during the process of 
milling: 

One pound of 

Fibrin. Mineral Matter, 

oz. gr. oz. gr. 

Fine flour contains. 1 297 .... 50 

Tails •• 1 889 .... 76 

Middlings " 2 1U5 .... 147 

Coarse sharps" 2 246 .... 294 

Finepollard *'■ 2 210 .... 399 

Coarse * " 2 196 .... 1 17 

Longbran " 2 182 .... 1 60 

Thiubran " 1 290 .... 182 

* Middling purifiers,— by which the bran is separated from the middlings 
—have made a rev»)huion iu the business of milling. By the new process, 
the wheal i** ground as before, except that the eff<»rts of the miller are direc- 
ted to obtainingtbe most middlings possible, and these are placed upon large 
horizontal sieves, which are constantly agitated, while, at the same time, by 
ingeneous devices, a draft of air is rushed up through the sieve, which car> 
ries off the bran. The purified middlings are then reground, and the pro- 
duct is called "patent'' flour, containing the glutinous, or most nutritious, 
portion of the grain. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



WHEAT AND WI£I?:ATEN FLOUR. 59 

The thin bran named in this table is not obtained in 
ordinary flour-mills; it forms the outermost coating of the 
grain, and may be removed by damping and then peeling 
the grain. 

It may be useful to give a more complete analysis of fine 

flour as obtained from white soft wheat : — 

In 100 parts. In 1 lb, 

oz. gr. 

WatOT 13.0 .... 2 35 

Fibrin,etc 10.5 .. 1 297 

Ptarch.etc 74.3 .... 11 38& 

Fat 0.8 .... 57 

Cellulose 0.7 .... 49 

Mineral mttter 0.7 .... 49 

One pound of good wheaten flour, when digested and 

oxydlsed in the body, might liberate force equal to 2,283 

tons raised 1 ft high. The greatest amount of external 

work which it could enable a man to perform is 477 ton& 

raised 1 ft high. For one part of flesh-formers in flne 

wheaten flour there are 7J parts of heat-givers, reckoned a» 

starch. One pound of wheaten flour cannot produce more 

than about If ozs of the dry nitrogenous substance of 

muscle or flesh. Instead of giving analyses of all the other 

mill-products before named, we will cite one additional 

analysis only, that of rather coarse bran : — 

In 100 parts. In lib. 

oz. gr. 

Watpr 14 .... 2 105 

Fibrin.etc 15 .... 2 175 

Starch, etc 44 .... 7 17 

Fat 4 .... 280 

Lignose and cellulose 17 .... 2 316 

Mineral matter 6 ... 422 

In comparing these numbers with those before given, as 
representing the coiiiposition of fine flour, it will be seen 
that bran not only contains more fibrin and mineral matter 
llian fine flour, but also more fat. The fibrous matter, 
which is indigestible, forms ith of the bran, but not 1-lCOth 
of the fine flour. For one part of flesh-formers in bran, 
there are not quite 4 parts of heat-givers, reckoned as 
starch. One pound of wheaten bran contains flesh-formers 
equal to rather more than 2J ozs of the dry nitrogenous 
bubsttuice of muscle or flesh. In bran, there is a remarka- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



60 WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 

ble substance called cerecUin^ which acts like a ferment in 
causing the change and solution of other substances, and it 
may therefore aid in the process of digestion when brown 
or whole meal bread is eaten. 

In regard to the agitation now in progress concerning 
the desirability of having the bran ground with the finer 
portions of the wheat, we quote from Prof. Graham's lec- 
tures : — 

"What is it that we theoretically conceive to be desir- 
able to obtain in the process of converting grain into flour 
that is required for the bread -making? Well, I think, in 
the first place, that no system of milling— whether it be a 
new method, or with stones, as has been the immemorial 
custom, and still is the chief method of grinding— can be 
perfect, unless the germ of the corn has been removed, and 
for this reason, although the germ bears a comparatively 
small ratio to the total weight of the corn, still it is an im- 
portant factor. It contains very active albuminoid fer- 
ments, and, therefore, if the germ be ground up with the 
remainder of the flour, it must, to that extent, injure the 
value of the flour for bread-making purposes. The next 
point that occurs to me, as a chemist, that should be attain- 
able in any good system of milling, is the removal of the 
bran. Not even the slightest quantity of bran should be 
allowed to remain in the flour when prepared, and for the 
reasons I pointed out to you that it contains a soluble album- 
inoid ferment, called cerealin. This is a very active dias- 
tasic body. An infusion of cerealin or an infusion of ordi- 
nary bran would give you a quantity of soluble ferments 
that will rapidly attack the starch cells, and in the presence 
of water, hydrate the starch into maltose and dextrin, 
giving a large quantity of dextrin. That is another reason 
why I consider that no system of milling is perfect, 
whether it be done by rollers or disintegrators, if it does 
not fulfill these two conditions, the removal of the germ 
and the removal of the bran. 

"I know that I am here treading upon very tender 
ground; not so much in regard to practical millers— they, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 61 

perhaps will not be so adverse to me— but I am about to 
criticise views tliat have been adopted by some scientific 
men, and followed by physicians, namely: the great value 
and iniportance of the bran. I admit, of course, that bran 
amounts to about one fifth of the totalcorn, and, therefore, 
the rejection of so much bran would, on a hasty review, 
seem to be a serious loss. It is true that, though there is 
much useless woody fibre, there is also some valuable al- 
buminoid bodies, and, further, that there is a larger propor- 
tion of phosphoric acid and potash in the bran than is found 
in the ash of the rest of the berry. We may admit this, and 
yet decline to fall into the error made by some scientific 
writers and by physicians, who have looked solely to the 
results of chemical analysis, and have overlooked the im- 
portant question of the digestibility of the hard, horny 
substance known as bran. We know that, if bran be in- 
troduced into the flour in large flakes, it acts as an irritant, 
producing well known effects. Now this powerful laxative 
action — though it may be in some cases of advantage to 
persons suffering from sedentary lives, and therefore pre- 
ferable to opient medicines— is not what the world at large 
desires. I may be answered that the bran need not thus be 
used, and that it should be ground to as fine a powder as 
the finest flour, and, therefore, there will remain no irri- 
tant particles. This view has been taken of a vexed ques- 
tion by many anxious to save the assumed high food value 
of bran, ignoring that, in so doing, they are reducing the 
value of the wheaten flour for the purpose of bread-making. 
They might equally recommend that oatmeal or barley- 
meal should be mixed with flour intended for the manufac- 
ture of fermented bread. In grinding down the bran of 
wheat along with the husk of the corn, you have intro- 
duced into the flour an active albuminoid ferment; and so 
soon as you take such flour containing the whole of the 
bran ground down to a very flne condition, then in the pro- 
cess of panification or bread-making, it imparts the peculiar 
power which soluble albuminoids have of rapidly convert- 
ing th6 starch molecules into less simple ones. You have a 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



iy2 WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 

large quantity of maltose sugar formed and dextrin, and 
those in the oven give considerable color. Not merely do 
they give color, but they produce another somewhat injuri- 
ous action, which is, that it is more difficult to obtain, with 
a thorough admixture of impalpable bran, a light bread. 
The bread is not only high-colored, but it is also more or 
less sodden, and this gives considerable trouble to the baker 
to avoid, even partially. 

"As regards the importance of the constituents of the 
bran, I say that the analyst, and the physician who makes 
use of the analyst as his supporter, in bringing before us 
the importance of brown bread, as compared with white, 
and who assert that, in rejecting the bran, we are guilty 
of a serious waste of flesh-forming and bone-forming mater- 
ial, should not take a mere chemical analysis as all suffi- 
cient to establish their point. The admixture of finely 
ground bran is detrimental to the fermentation process of 
bread-making, and this admixture of an active albuminoid 
ferment, the.cerealin of bran, reduces high class wheats, 
from a fermentation point of view, to inferior wheats. 
Those who still attach such high importance to bran must, 
therefore, use the Dauglish carbonic acid method, or muri- 
atic acid and bi-carbonate of soda, in order to avoid the in- 
jurious action of the soluble albuminoids. '^ 

There can be, of course, but one opinion as to the desira- 
bility of having flour for bread-making, or for any other 
purpose connected with human aliment, which contains all 
the constituents in the wheat which are useful as food. 
Liebig, we are aware, in his chemical letters, maintained 
that the separation of bran from flour was a matter of lux- 
ury, and was injurious rather than useful for nourishing 
purposes. Since the time of that great chemist, however, 
investigations have been made with regard to this question 
which have resulted in conclusions different from those at 
which he arrived. Poggiale, for example, showed by a 
series of practical experiments, that bran is indigestible, 
-and his conclusions were confirmed by Professor Voit, of 
Munich. So recently as 1847, Professor Rathey made ex- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



WHEAT AND WHEATKN FLOUR. 63 

perinients oq the Bame subject, which clearly showed that 
the highly nutrimentative elements, which were supposed 
to be lost in consequence of the elimination of the bran 
from the flour, were actually of no value, but the reverse, 
lis elements of human aliment. The truth is, that the aim 
-of modern milling is to make a complete separation, by the 
simplest and most effective means, of the flour-producing 
jHirtions of the wheat-berry and the outer rind, including 
the beard and germ. The object of the miller is to set free 
the real flour substances from the integuments in which 
tliey are enclosed, and to secure for them that form in 
which they can be most readily and beneficially assimilated 
by the action of the human stomach. Whole meal, that is 
:flour which contains all the constituents of the wheat 
<bran, beard and germ), ground up in one mass, is a delu- 
sion, from a real alimentary point of view, containing, as 
it does, substances which cannot be assimilated with the 
system, which, indeed, have to be got rid of, at some ex- 
penditure of vital force, as encumbrances and annoyances. 
The chief aim of the modern scientific miller is not merely 
to secure whiteness in his flour, but to secure for it every 
really alimentary constituent that the wheat contains, in- 
<jluding the bone-forming phosphates. These, however, by 
the way, do not amount to a great deal, since, according to 
Professor Graham, the ash in old wheat is only 1.6 in 100 
parts, of which the phosphates do not amount to one-half. 
Another matter of considerable interest to millers and 
bakers, is the admixture of flours. The object of this is to 
balance the soluble and insoluble albuminoids, whereby the 
deficiency of one flour is made up by the excess of another. 
Sometimes, as many as ten or twelve varieties may go into 
^ne flour, and the proper ingredients of a good bread-mak- 
ing flour thus be obtained. This is a subject, however, more 
properly belonging to the province of the miller than that 
of the baker. Of the two principal varieties of wheat, red 
and white, red is the stronger food, and the grain is usually 
smaller and harder, while the white is the larger grain, 
^nd particularly adapted to the production of fine white 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



64 WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 

flour, and to mix with red wheat for the same purpose. 
The red variety is, however, most grown, and in nutriment 
is to be preferred. A hot summer and a sunny clime pro- 
duce grain with the least proportion of water and nitrogen* 
hence, wheat from Southern Europe, the shores of the 
Black Sea, and the Steppes of Asia, and the Caucasus, is 
preferred in England, as is also that of any clime in which 
the heat of the sun is great during the summer months; as 
for instance, in the interior of America and Kussia. Wheat 
does not flourish either under a tropical sun or in a high 
northern latitude. 

According to the quality of flour, will be the weight of 
water which it will take up and retain. Flour produced 
Irom wheat of the finest quality, and in hot summers or in 
hot countries, takes up much water, and is known as strong 
flour ; but sprouted wheat, or the produce of cold climates 
and cold summers, yields flour of the contrary tendency. 
In practice, 100 pounds of flour will make 133 to 137 pounds 
of bread, or an average of 136 pounds.* 

Flour is peculiarly sensative to atmospheric influences, 
hence it should never be stored in a room with sour liquids, 
nor where onions or fish are kept, nor any article that 
taints the air of the room where it is stored. Any smell per- 
ceptible to the senses will be absorbed by fiour. Avoid 
damp cellars or lofts where a free circulation of air cannot 
be obtained. Keep flour in a cool, dry, airy room, and ex- 
posed neither to a freezing temperature nor to intense sum- 
mer heat, nor to artificial heat above 70° to 75° Fahr. for 
any length of time. Flour should not come in contact with 
grain or other substances which are liable to heat. In sum- 
mer time flour is needed as cool as possible, and in winter 
it should be kept in a warm place, so that it may always he 

*In his "Handbook of Hyjjiene," Wilson says: "100 lbs of good flour 
will yield 136 lbs of bread " Edward Smith, in liis work on food, says : " A 
sack of 280 Jbs produces 95 four-pound loaves, or evtni more." Letheby, in 
his lectures on foud. says: '• A sack of flour (280 lbs) makes about 380 lbs of 
bread, or 95 four-pouna loaves." Lastly, Parkes. in his standard work on 
hygiene, says: " lot) lbs of flour will make irom 129 to 150 lbs of bread." In 
making bread, the proportions are, "20 lbs of flour, 8 to 12 lbs of tepid water, 
4 ounces of yeast, to which a little potato is a<tded, and V/^ to 2 ounces of 
salt." Six and a half pounds of dough yield six pounds of bread. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



WHEAT AND WHEATEN FLOUR. 



65 



of an even temperature, the temperature having a great 
deal to do with the rising of the dough. A good plan, 
when feasible, is to purchase flour a month in advance of 
use, so that it may be kept in an even temperature at least 
that length of time. Flour, when fresh ground, is too 
glutinous to make good bread, and, for this reason also, it 
should not be used immediately, but be kept for a few 
weeks, and stirred occasionally until it becomes dry, and 
crumbles easily between the fingers. Before being used, 
flour should always be well sifted, and the particles disin- 
tegrated, and when practical, it may be warmed before bak- 
ing. This treatment improves the color and baking proper- 
ties of the dough. 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CHAPTEE V. 

SELECTION OF WHEAT FLOUR. 

OTHER CEREALS, ETC. 

Principal Chaiacteristics of Grood Flour— Easy Tests— Color and 
Adhesiveness— Higher Grades of Flonr — Qaalitative Analyses 
of Flour— (1) With Ammonia— (2) With Potassa and Caustic 
Alkali— (3) With Boiling Water— (4) With Hydrochloric Acid— 
(5) With Nitric Acid— (6) Kodrigne's Test by Dry Distillation 
—(7) M. Chevallier*s Tent by Trituration— (8) Starch Test— (9) 
Test by Specific Gravity — (10) With Liquor Potassa and Pure 
Alkali— (11) By the Microscope— (12) Lassaigne's Test With 
Sulphite of Iron — (13) Downy *8 Test with Nitric Acid and 
Ammonia — (14) Louyet's Test by Means of the Ash— (15) Test 
for Alum — (16) Tests for Mineral Substances — Quantitive An- 
alysis of Flour— (a) Gluten— (b) Starch— (c) Albumen; Phos- 
phate of Lime and (>um — (d)Sugar — (e)Dryingand Weighing — 
Percentage Values — Uses of the Foregoing Analyses — Aleurome- 
ter — Its Object — How Constructed and Used— Wanklyn's Meth- 
od for Determining Spoiled Flour — How Musty Flour May be 
Improved— Arrowroot— Varieties, Bermuda, Brazillian, etc — Tons 
les mois — Potato Starch and Britisli Arrowroot — Adulterations 
and Tests —Buckwheat— Nutritive Properties— Their Dlversi- 
taes— Barley— Antiquity of its Culture— Scotch, Hulled or Pot 
Barley— Pearl Barley— Patent Barley — Barley Bread— Graham 
Flour — How to Make Graham Bread — Adulterations — Maize — 
Indian Com— * 'Polenta" — Maizena — Corn Flour— Qom Starch 
— Oswego. Flour— Oatmeal— Groats, or Grits — Embdem Groats 
— ^Nutritive Ingredients in Oatmeal— Comparison with Wheat — 
Adulterations— Oatmeal Bread — Potato Flour, or Starch — Rice 
— Rye— Deficiency of Crude Gluten — Rye Bread— Detection of 
Ergot— Semola- Wheat Groats, or Grits— Semolina (Semoule) — 
Parisian Bread— Gruau — Tapioca— Cassava Bread — Miinjok 
Flour— Mandiokka. 

Wheat flour being a prime article of food, is very fer- 
quently adulterated by Tjoth the miller and the baker. Its 
principal characteristics, when of good quality, are the fol- 
lowing: It exhibits no trace of bran, even when pressed 
smooth with the fingers, or with a polished surface ; its co- 
hesiveness is so great that, on being squeezed in the hand, 
the lump retains its shape for some time; it has a homogen- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SELECTION OF WHEAT FLOUR. 67 

ous appearance, aud does not lose more than from 6 to 12 
per cent, by being carefully dried in a stove. The smaller 
the loss in this way, the finer the quality, other matters 
being equal, and the more economical in use. As good a 
test of flour as can be had at sight, is to take up a handful 
and squeeze it tight; if good, when the hand is unclasped, 
the lines on the palm of the hand will be plainly defined 
on the ball of flour. Good flour, when made into dough, 
will never be a clear blue-white, but of a creamy, yellowish 
tinge, and will not stick to the hand while kneading it. In 
selecting flour, look flrst to the color; if it is white, with a 
yellowish colored tint, it is good; but bad, if white with a 
blueish coat, or with white specks in it; — second, examine 
its adhesiveness, wet and knead a little of it between the 
fiogers ; if it works soft and elastic, it is poor. Throw a 
little lump of dried flour against a smooth surface, if it falls 
like powder, it is bad. Most bakers prefer a flour which 
feels a little harsh between the fingers and thumb, in- 
stead of soft and smooth. Inspection of fiour should in all 
cases be made with plenty of light, and, as far as practicable, 
with the same degree of light, in order that color may be 
more readily compared and Judged. The higher grades 
of fiour are not generally adulterated, it being very diflft- 
cult to mix a dry substance with such fiour that will not 
betray the fraud under even ordinary inspection. Alum, 
however, has been used to some extent to bleach the lower 
grades and bring them up to a higher standard. 

QUALITATIVE TESTS FOR FLOUR. 

1 . A solution of ammonia turns pure wheat fiour yellow ; 
if any other corn has been ground with it, however, a pale 
brown ; if peas or beans have been ground with it, a still 
darker brown. 

2. A solution of potassa, containing about 12 per cent, 
of caustic alkali, dissolves pure wheat flour almost com- 
pletely; but when it is adulterated with the flour of legu- 
minous seeds, (beans, peas, etc.) the cellulose of these sub- 
stances remains undisturbed, (and its hexagonal tissue is re- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



68 SELECTION OP WHEAT FLOUR. 

duced identically under the microscope.) Clialk, plaster of 
Paris, bone dust, etc., are also insoluble in this test, and 
appear as a heavy white sediment. 

3. Boiling water poured on the sample causes the evo- 
lution of the peculiar odor of pea or bean flour when these 
substances are present. Bread made with such flour 
evolves a like odor on being toasted. 

4. Pure hydrochloric (muriatic) acid poured on potato 
flour, or wheat flour adulterated with it, developes a smell 
of rushes; it also dissolves starch, but changes the color of 
pure wheat flour to a deep violet. 

5. Nitric acid turns wheat flour of an orange-yellow 
color, but forms a stifl" and tenacious jelly with potato 
fecula, the color of which it does not alter 

6. A portion of the suspected sample submitted to dry 
distillation in a stone retort, and the distillate collected in 
a receiver containing a little water, the latter is found to 
remain perfectly neutral if the wheat flour is pure, but ac- 
quires a distinct alkaline reaction when beans, pulse or pea 
meal is present. ( Bodrignes.) 

7. Triturate 300 grains of the sample with an equal 
weight of clean siliclous sand, and after flve minutes form 
a homogenous paste with water; after further adding more 
water, until about 2 fluid ozs. have been used. The filtered 
liquid treated with an equal quantity of a strong and pure 
aqueous solution of iodine, developes a pink color, which 
gradually disappears when the specimen examined consists 
of pure wheat flour; but assumes a deep-purple color, which 
disappears much more slowly, if the flour is adulterated 
with even 10 per cent, of fecula or potato flour. This test 
succeeds not only with flour and meal, but also with maca- 
roni, vermicelli, etc. (M. Chevallier.) 

8. The milky liquid holding starch in suspension is 
poured into a small conical glass, and left at rest for some 
time; the clear liquid is then decanted, and any remaining 
water carefully sucked up with a pipette, aud the whole 
left forsome time in order that the deposit may harden. The 
upper grey layer is next removed with a teaspoon, and the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SELECTION OP WHEAT FLOUR. 



harder and stiffer seooud layer left undisturbed till it be- 
comes quite solid by drying. When in this state it may be 
upset in the form of a cone, upon a lump of dry plaster. 
The fecula or potato starch (if any is present) being heavier 
than that of wheat, forms the apex of the cone, and its 
quantity may be estimated in the following manner: The 
operator cuts from the apex of the little cone above men- 
tioned a slice, which he triturates only for a short time in 
an agate mortar, (one of glass or porcelain or wedgwood- 
ware will not do) and he tests this with the aqueous 
solution of iodine. If it turns blue, it is fecula. Another 
slice is tested in the same manner, until the operator comes 
to the wheat starch, which in the present instance, is not 
affected by the aqueous solution of imiine. The difference 
of behavior of the two species of starch with iodine, is due 
to the friction of the pestle and mortar, which is suflScient to 
divide or tare the envelopes of (he particles of the potato 
starch, which then become blue when treated by a solution 
of iodine. The particles of wheat starch on the contrary 
are not disaggregated by this treatment, and being there- 
fore protected by the envelope, are not acted upon by the 
solution of iodine, or at most only assume a brown tinge. 

9. Wheat flour adulterated with plaster of Paris, ground 
bones, chalk and potato-flour, has a higher specific gravity 
than a sample of pure flour. "A vessel which will contain 
1ft) of wheat flour will contain IJlbs of fecula" (potato- 
starch) and hence **the proportion of this adulteration 
may be clearly estimated." ( Ure.) 

10. If to a sample of wheat flour a solution of potassa is 
added, containing about 1} per cent, of pure alkali, the 
granules of potato farina, or of bean meal, or pea meal, 
present (if any), will acquire 4 or 5 times their original 
volume, while those of pure wheat starch will be scar- 
cely affected by it. This change is very perceptible under 
a microscope of small power. Two parts of liquor of potassa 
( Ph. L.) and five parts of distilled water form a mixture 
that answers for the above purpose. 

11. By means of the microscope the admixture of cheap- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



70 SELECTION OF WHEAT FLOUR. 

er feculas and meals with wheat flour is readily detected 
by the characteristic appearance of the starch grains ; and 
when the adulteration exceeds 9 or '10 per cent, its extent 
may be readily estimated with considerable accuracy. As 
the range of adulteration is generally from 12 to 27 per cent, 
this method is applicable in the great number of cases. 

12. Sulphite of iron renders an infusion of pure flour 
somewhat yellow, and imparts a bottle green to that which 
is adulterated with bean meal. (Lassaigne.) 

13. Nitric acid and ammonia poured successively on good 
flour show nothing remarkable ; but bean meal strikes a 
deep (red) color. (Downy.) 

14. The amount of ash left by flour has been proposed 
by Louyet as a test of its purity. He says, "Wheat flour 
yields on an average 0.8 per cent.; rye-flour, 10 per cent.; 
bean and pea meal, 3 per cent.; linseed meal, 10 per cent, 
of ash." 

16. The presence of alum in flour may be determined 
by mixing 50 grammes with 60 c. c. of water, and 0.6 c. c. 
of logwood solution and 6 c. c. of aqueous ammonium car^ 
bonate. If alum is present even in the proportion of 1 part 
in 10,000, the color of the emulsion will be changed from 
pink to lavender blue. 

16. To determine mineral substances in flour, a small 
quantity of the suspected flour is shaken up in a glass tube 
with chloroform. All mineral adulterations will collect at 
the bottom, while the flour will float on the liquid. 

QUANTITIVE ANALYSIS OF FLOUB. 

The value of wheat flour as an aliment depends upon the . 
quantity of gluten, sugar, starch, and phosphate of lime, 
which it contains; and its superiority over the grains of 
the other cereals is referred to its containing a larger pro- 
portion of the first and last of these substances than they 
do. The quantitive analysis of flour is very simple, and 
may be easily made by persons unacquainted with chem- 
istry, by attending to the instructions below : — 

a. Make 1,000 grains of the sample into a dough with a 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SELECTION OP WHEAT FLOUR. 71 

little water; let it rest an hour and then gently knead it in 
successive waters, until the starchy particles are perfectly 
removed. Collect the portion (gluten) left in the hand, 
drain off the water, place it on a piece of filtering or blot- 
ting-paper, several times doubled, and set it aside. 

b. Mix the several waters employed in the preceeding 
process, and set them aside in a tall vessel, to deposit the 
suspended portion (starch). After a sufficient time, 
pour off the clear liquid, and throw the whole of the sedi- 
ment on a weighed paper filter, placed in a funnel, observ- 
ing to remove the portion adhering to the bottom of the 
vessel, by means of a little clean water, that none may be 
lost. 

c. Evaporate the decanted liquid, as well as that which 
runs from the filter, until it becomes curdy, then filter it 
through a piece of weighed blotting-paper, and preserve 
the sediment (albumen); next evaporate the residuum to 
the consistence of a syrup, agitate it with ten times its 
weight of alcohol, and filter, observing to wash the paper 
filter clean with a little alcohol after thesoluti<m has passed 
through it. The substance on the paper is Phosphate of 
Lime and gum, and must be set aside. By subsequent di- 
gestion in water, filtration, and syrup, the two may be ob- 
tained separately. 

d. Evaporate or distill off the spirit from the solutions 
and washings, as above; the residuum is sugar. 

e. Dry the substances as educed above, by a gentle heat, 
and weigh them. The weight of the albumen must be 
taken with the gluten, as it possesses about the same nutri- 
tive value, and also because it has been asserted by some 
that the former substance is in reality gluten and not 
albumen. By dividing the given weights by 10, the per- 
centage value of the sample is obtained. The pieces of 
filteriog paper employed should be carefully dried and 
weighed before using them, and the same degree of heat 
should be employed for this purpose as that to which they 
would be after exposed in the drying of the substances re- 
sulting from the operations. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



72 SELECTION OF WHEAT FLOUR. 

The above method of quantitive analysis for ascertainiDg 
the actual value of auy sample of flour as an article of food, 
though not strictly accurate, approximates sufficiently to 
the truth for all practical purposes, and is well adapted to 
the wants of the baker and large purchaser. In many 
cases it would only be necessary to perform the first part 
of the operation (a) which will give the per centage of the 
most important constituent of flour; the rest being of 
minor consequence. 

ALEUROMETER. 

This is an instrument for determining the quantity and 
quality of gluten in wheat flour. It essentially consists of 
a hollow copper cylinder, about 6 inches long, and | inch 
internal dianeter. This tube has two principal parts ; the 
one, about 2 inches long, is closed at the lower end, form- 
ing a kind of a cup, into which the gluten is placed ; it 
screws into the remainder of the cylinder. The cup being 
charged with a sample of gluten, and the upper part of the 
cylinder being screwed on, it is exposed in an oven, or 
( preferably ) in an oil bath, to a temperature of 350° to 380** 
Fahr. From the length of the tube the gluten occupies in 
swelling, as measured by a graduated scale, its quality is 
determined. The crude gluten of good wheat flour aug- 
ments to four or five times its original volume when thus 
treated ; but that from bad flour does not swell, becomes 
viscid and semi-fluid, and generally gives off a disagreeable 
odor ; whilst that of good flour merely suggests the smell of 
hot and highly baked bread. 

To determine whether flour is spoiled or not, Wanklyn 
exhausts it with cold water. Good flour contains but little 
dextrin or sugar, and consequently its aqueous extract 
when evaporated will leave but a very Insignificant resi- 
due as compared with that of spoiled flour, which contains 
a large quantity of these soluble substances. 100 parts of 
sound flour yield about 4.7 of extract, whereas spoiled flour 
yields from 12 to 18 parts. To partially restore and im- 
prove musty flour, mix three parts of carbonate of raag- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



OTHER CERRALS. 73 



iiesia with 760 parts of flour, and use in the usual way. 
This will not only greatly improve bad flour, but the bread 
will be much lighter, more wholesome, and keep longer 
than when such dangerous substances as alum are used. 

ARROWROOT. 

The common name of Maranta arundinacece. It was orig- 
inally brought from the island of Dominica to Barbadoes. 
A large portion of the arrowroot of commerce consists eith- 
er wholly or in part of the fecula or farina of potatoes, or 
of inferior starches, and is known under such names as, 
East India arrowroot, or Cacuma starch ; Braziilian arrow- 
root, or Jatropha, otherwise called Cassava starch or Tapi- 
oca meal ; Tous le mois, or Canna ; Tahiti arrowroot, made 
from Tacca starch or Otaheite salep, frofn the tubers of 
taeca oceanica. Potato starch is also known in commerce 
as Farina, or British arrowroot, or simply as arrowroot; 
whereas genuine arrowroot is always described as Bermuda 
arrowroot, St. Vincent^s arrowroot etc. Arrowroot is fre- 
quently adulterated with sago meal, or rice meal; but such 
materials can be detected by the microscope, as also potato 
starch. But the most common test for the latter is dilute 
nitric acid of 1.10 (about the strength of single aquafortis) 
which when triturated in a mortar with the starch forms 
immediately a transparent very viscid paste or jelly. Flour 
starch exhibits a like appearance. Arrowroot, however, 
forms an opaque paste, and takes a much longer time to 
become viscid. 

BUCKWHEAT. 

The seeds of the Fagogprum esculentimij which when 
ground make excellent cakes and crumpets. Buckwheat 
cakes are equal to pure wheat bread as regards the phos- 
phates or bone-making material and nitrogejious principles 
which they contain, and are superior to bread in fatty 
matters. The general yield of buckwheat when cooked is 
about three times the. weight of the flour used, showing 
that such flour will retain 40 to 41 per cent, of water. Be- 
tween different batches of ground buckwheat there is a 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



74 OTHER CEREALS. 



dissimilarity of composition--one batch containing nearly 
seven times as much nitrogen, twenty-flve times the 
amount of phosphates, and a hundred and fifteen times as 
much fatty matter as another. The bran is the richest por- 
tion of the buckwheat, but cannot be digested by weak 
stomachs. 

Barley— (-ETordetim). 
The latter term is supposed to be derived from hordeua 
(heavy), because the bread made from it is very heavy. 
Barley was extensively cultivated by the Bomans and many 
other nations of antiquity, as well as by the ancient inhab- 
itants of Gaul. The Greeks are said to have trained their 
Athletes on it. The best tests for the genuineness of barley 
are its color, and freedom from grit and insects. The micro- 
scope will lead to the detection of any cheapergrains if mixed 
with it. It is rarely adulterated, though it is said to be 
extensively used for the purpose of sophisticating wheat, 
anotta, and roll-licorice. When barley is derived of its 
husks by a mill, it form Scotch, Hulled or Pot Barley. 
When all ths integuments of the grain are removed, and 
the seeds are rounded and polished, they constitute Pearl 
Barley. The flour obtained by grinding Pearl Barley to 
powder, is called Patent Barley. The chief difference in 
barley-flour as compared with wheat, is not in the amount 
of the albuminoid bodies, but in their character. If you 
take barley-flour and knead it with water, as one often does 
with flour, you would, after washing for some time, find 
that there was a very small quantity of crude gluten left, 
and that barley-flour would be a very inappropriate material 
to form a good loaf with. Barley bread is a heavy, sticky, 
doughy, sort of mass, more like wheat treated by the boil- 
ing process than by the oven process. 

GRAHAM FLOUR. 

If ground wheat be unbolted, that is, if its bran be not 
separated, wheat meal or Graham flour results, from which 
Graham or Dyspepsia bread is produced. It is made in the 
same general way as other wheat bread, but requires a little 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



OTHER CEREALS. 75 



peculiar management. Upou this point Mr. Graham re- 
marks: "The wheat meal, and especially if it is ground 
coarsely, swells considerably in the dougli, and, therefore, 
the dough should not at first be made quite so stiff as that 
made of superfine flour ; and when it is raised, if it is found 
too soft to mould well, a little more meal may be added.'' 
It should further be remarked that dough made of whole 
meal will take on the acetous fermentation, or become sour, 
sooner than that made of fine flour. It also requires a hot- 
ter oven, and to be baked longer. Graham flour is the sub- 
ject of very extensive adulterations in almost every market 
where it is sold. The fraud consists chiefly in grinding un- 
sound or inferior grades of wheat in its manufacture; and, 
as it is not expected to come up to any particular standard 
of color, if it can escape the musty odor, it will pass. As 
Graham flour is largely used as food for invalids, it should 
be made from the soundest and best wheat in the market. 

MAIZE— INDIAN CORN. 

A genus of mono-cotyledenous plants, belonging to the 
natural order Graminece (grasses). There are two species 
known, and these both belong to America. The zea mays, 
is the Indian corn, or corn maize ; and the zea cuagua^ the 
Chilian maize, or Valpariso corn ; both being largely con- 
sumed as articles of food. The quantity of starch in the 
dry kernels of maize varies between 60 and 65 per cent. 
Meal made from maize is frequently known under the 
name of ** Polenta." 

MAIZENA. 

This is maize deprived of all its albuminoid or flesh-form- 
ing constituents, as well as of its flbre and ash, and is, 
therefore, simply pure starch. Its food properties are sim- 
ilar to those of arrowroot. Corn flour and Oswego, are 
only other names for the same substance. This corn-starch 
may frequently be made to supply the place of eggs in bak- 
ing. If four eggs are recommended in a recipe, two may 
be used and two tablespoons of corn-starch, and the cake 
will be apparently as light and good as one made with four 
eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



76 OTHER CEREALS. 



OATMEAL. 

Made from oat (avena sativa). It is of an elongated 
conical shape, and is enclosed in a thick husk, deprived of 
which it constitutes what is called groeUa, or grits; this 
latter crushed, produces what is known as Embden groats; 
and which, finely ground, oat-fiour or meal of a yellowish 
white color results; this does not form a dough or paste 
with water like wheat flour, although it contains a large 
amount of nitrogenous matter. When the husk is removed 
from the oat in making oatmeal, the proportion of flbre 
and ash is greatly reduced, while the amount of albumin- 
oids and carbo-hydrates rises. From its high contents in 
albuminoids and fat, oatmeal is probably the most concen- 
trated food supplied by the cereal grains. It is interesting 
to observe that while the removal of the bran from wheat 
reduces the nitrogenous and fatty contents of flour, the 
removal of the husks from oats has precisely the opposite 
efl'ect, so that the finer the oatmeal, the richer it is in these 
ingredients. Oatmeal is frequently adulterated with bar- 
ley-meal, rice, or maize; sometimes with whiting, plaster 
of Paris, and ground bones ; all of which adulterations may 
be easily detected by the microscope. As oatmeal soon be- 
comes rancid or sour, it should always be used as freshly 
ground as possible. Oat flour, though rich in the total 
quantity of albuminoids, is deflcient in crude gluten ; when 
fermented with yeast in the ordinary way, it is a heavy- 
mass, and precisely the same may be said of maize. 

POTATO FLOUR OR STARCH. 

This frequently goes under the name of English arrow- 
root. 

RICE. 

This plant, originally a native of Asia, is now extensively 
cultivated in the West Indies, and to some extent in the 
United States. The Carolina and Fatna rice are the kinds 
most esteemed in this country. 

RYE, 

Is the seed of the aecale cereale, resembling wheat in form, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



OTHER OEREAIiS. 77 



but rather elongated. It is a native of Crete, and appears 
to have been used at a very early period by man. When 
rye is ground, it produces a flour like that of wheat, but 
considerably darker in color. On washing with water the 
pasty mass of rye flour, however, no residue remains, as it 
is entirely carried ofl" mechanically in the solution; hence 
the gluten of rye flour cannot be removed from the starch, 
as is the case with that of wheat Rye flour, therefore, 
though very rich in the quantity of albuminoids, is so defi- 
cient in crude gluten, that when you knead it with water, 
there is practically nothing left, the whole of it passing 
away along with the starch ; not that it is soluble, but it is 
not coherent, and hence does not form that tough, elastic 
mass, which is so characteristic of wheat under the same 
conditions; and when fermented with yeast in the ordi- 
nary way, a heavy mass is the result. Now rye flour is 
very much used in the north of Europe for the purpose of 
making bread, and it is with rye flour chiefly that the 
leaven process is employed, and the result is a black loaf, 
very much inferior in lightness and appearance to that 
made from wheat. Ergot may be detected in rye flour by 
first boiling it twice in alcohol, to remove fatty and resinous 
matters, then treating the expressed residue with alcohol, 
and adding from 10 to 20 drops of dilute sulphuric acid. If 
the rye fiour is free from ergot, the liquid remains colorless, 
or exhibits only a faint, yellowish tinge; in the contrary 
case, it aoquires a red color, more or less deep, according to 
the quantity of ergot present. . 

SEMOLA. 

This preparation consists of wheaten fiour deprived of 
its starch by washing with water, and contains the largest 
amount (48 per cent.) of nitrogen or albuminoid principles, 
consistent with its adaptability to culinary purposes. 
Wheat groat%y or grita^ are distinguished from semola by 
the presence of the husk of the grain in large or small 
proportion. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



78 OTHER CEREALS. 



SEMOLiNA--( SemotUe ). 
A name given in France to denote tlie large hard grains 
of wheat flour retained in the bolting machine after the 
fine flour has been passed through its meshes. The best 
semoule is obtained from wheat of the southern parts of 
Europe. With the semoule, the fine white Parisian bread, 
called gruau^ is baked. Skillful millers contrive to pro- 
duce a large proportion of semoule from the large-grained 
wheats of Naples and Odessa. 

TAPIOCA. 

Made from the roots of janipha manihot; the starch 
which separates from the milky liquid, is mealy tapioca ; 
after drying upon hot plates it becomes ground tapioca; 
the portion of the pulp which remains after washing and 
pressing is spread out and dried into cakes, this is called 
Cassava bread]; when pulverized, it forms Manjok fiour ; 
and when again heated on iron plates till it swells up, 
mandiokka. 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CHAPTEE VL 

YEAST AND ITS PREPARATION. 

Cagniard def la Tour and the Yeast Plant— An Organic Fungus — 
Yeast Spores — Method of Propagation— Surface and Sediment 
Yeast — Difterence Between the Two — Fermentation From 
Leaven— How Yeast Grows — Diverse Views — Alcohol — The Heat 
of the Oven Kills the Yeast— Dried Yeast—Three Kinds of 
Yeast in General Use — Brewer's Yeast, or Barm — German, or 
Compressed Yeast— Patent, or Hop Yeast — German, or Press 
Yeast — How Made — How to be Used— Patent Yeast — Its Use — 
Potato Yeast — Formulae for Making Various Kinds of Yeasts and 
Ferments— Brewer's Yeast— Patent Yeast (1) — Patent Yeast (2) 
Stock Yeast— Ytast Without a Ferment (1)— Yeast Without a 
Ferment (2)— Yeast Without a Ferment (3)— Yeast With a Fer- 
ment-Yeast From Grape Leaves— Family Yeast (1)— Family 
Yeast (2)— Yeast for Hot Climates— To Eemedy Bitterness in 
Yeast— To Remedy Sourness in Yeast— Di^ Hop Yeast— Yeast 
Cakes — To Preserve Yeast— Another Method — ^^Yeast Ferment 
for Bread— The Sponge — How to Regulate its Action, ^tc. 

It is now only about a single generation since Cagniard 
de la Tour discovered, or naore properly rediscovered, the 
yeast plant; since it is, we believe, undisputed that Leu- 
wenhock was the first to draw attention to it in 1680, but 
since his day the fact of the yeast being really a plant had 
grown dim and dubious. Philosophers attributed the 
action of it to chemical changes only, and one of them at 
least thought he saw good reason for ascribing animal 
characteristics to this mysterious object. About forty years 
ago, however, Cagniard entered upon a series of very close 
and careful observations, which placed it beyond doubt 
that yeast was a vegetable growth. He found that it con- 
sisted of an agglomeration of minute oval cells, the diame- 
ter of which he reckoned to be about one two-thousand 
five-hundreth part of an inch, and they propagated, he 
found, by a process of budding. 

The yeast plant is now universally admitted to be a fun- 
gus, growing and feeding on decaying organic matter. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



80 YEAST AND ITS PREPARATION. 

Nature seems, indeed, to have very carefully provided for 
its universal difiusion. The mildew which forms on the 
surface of yeast is really the fruit, the spores of which, it has 
heen calculated, are but one-sixth of the diameter of the pol- 
len-dust of the fir-tree, showers of which latter have been 
sometimes met with hundreds of miles out at sea. When 
the yeast plant comes to maturity, therefore, and throws off 
its spores, they are very likely to travel over a great part of 
the earth's surface before settling. The propagation of the 
plant by the budding process just alluded to is very curious. 
A single cell will put forth one, and sometimes two tiny 
projections, which presently become complete cells, capable 
themselves of multiplying in the same manner, and thus 
in a few hours, under favorable circumstances, a portion of 
yeast introduced into a saccharine fluid will increase its 
volume to five or six times its original dimensions. Scien- 
tific men have made a distinction between surface yeast and 
sediment yeast— surface yeast being, they tell us, propagated 
by buds, and sediment yeast by spores. Beer yeast, at any 
rate, has been thus divided. There is, however, very little, 
if any, diflerence in the cells of the two kinds^ and sedi- 
mentary yeast appears to be only a fungus developed at a 
lower temperature than surface yeast, into which as a mat- 
ter of fact, it is readily converted by a rise in temperature. 
The reason of one kind appearing as a sediment and the 
other as a surface growth, is said to be attributed to a dif- 
ference in the evolution of carbonic acid gas, the rapid gen- 
eration of which keeps one ** variety " of yeast, at the sur- 
face, while the want of buoyancy imparted by this genera- 
tion of gas is the cause of the other kind remaining as a 
sediment It seems, in fact, to be not a difference of kind, 
but of condition. 

It is the rapid generation of carbonic acid gas which has 
given yeast its great value as a substitute for the ancient 
** leaven*' in the making of bread, which is still used in 
many parts of Europe in the manufacture of black bread. 
Leaven is simply sour dough— dough that has been over- 
fermented, and which has the power of imparting its own 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



YEAST AND ITS PREPARATION. 81 

fermentation to any fresh batch. In this ease, also, the fer- 
mentation is produced by a fungus, the growth of which is 
attended by the evolution of carbonic acid gas. This per- 
meates the whole mass with bubbles, which puflTs up the 
solid dough into an agglomeration of cells, thus imparting to 
it what we call lightness, and which in the past few years 
science has endeavored to accomplish in a more direct 
manner by ** aerating " with the gas chemically manufac- 
tured. Whether in bread or an infusion of malt, however, 
the growth of the yeast plant is the same. The tiny 
vesciles of the yeast are nourished by appropriating the 
sugar in the fluid, or more correctly, by decomposing the 
sugar. This decomposition, in some way which, as far 
as we are aware, is still a mystery to scientilic men, pro- 
duces a similar process throughout the fluid in wliich 
the yeast is operating. Wbether this process, which is 
neither more nor less than fermentation, is caused by the 
action of the yeast, or whether the action of the yeast is 
caused by the fermentation of the liquor, is a point on 
which a good deal of discussion has been held. Some have 
maintained that one is simply the accompaniment of the 
other, and that the two things do not stand to each other in 
the relation of cause and effect. It is now very generally 
considered that fermentation is initiated by the yeast, 
though it is not, we believe, a point that can be considered 
to be settled beyond dispute. As is very well Isnown an 
outcome of the process of fermentation set agoing by the 
yeast, is alcohol. This is produced in the bread that has 
been "raised^' by yeast, just as it is in the infusion of malt 
or the grape juice. 

The baker's oven puts an end to the action of yeast by 
simply killiug the plant, just as it would kill any other 
plant. It cannot survive a temperature of more than about 
212 degrees (Fahr.)— the temperature of water boiling in an 
open vessel. The yeast fungus may, however, be dried at 
a moderate temperature, or it may be dessicated by press- 
ure, and its vitality will be arrested. The plant may thus 
be kept for a long time, and has been technically called, 

F 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



82 YEAST AND ITS PREPA RATION. 

German Yeast, Vienna Yeast, Compressed Yeast, or simply 
Press Yeast. 

A yeast, or fermenting material, may be prepared in a 
variety of ways ; but there are only three kinds that are in 
general use by the baker ; viz : 

1st. Brewer's Yeast, or Barm. 

2nd. German or Compressed Yeast. 

3rd. Patent, or Hop Yeast. 

The most active of these ferments is the first, or brew- 
er's yeast; it is, as is well known, a frothy, thiekish mate- 
rial, of a brownish or dark color, which, when recent, is in 
a state of slight efFerescense, exhales a sour characteristic 
odor, and has an acid reaction. When viewed through the 
microscope it is seen to consist of small globules of various 
sizes, generally egg-shaped. The best, and in fact the only, 
brewer's yeast used in bread-making is that from ale-brew- 
eries; porter yeast is unavailable for the purpose, as it im- 
parts to the bread a disagreeable bitter taste. 

German, or Compressed Yeast, now very extensively 
used, is a pasty but easily crumbled mass, of an agreeable 
fruity odor, and of a dingj' white color; it will remain 
good for a few weeks, if kept in a cool place. Before being 
used it should be kept at least twenty-four hours at the 
bake-house at the temperature of the fiour in which it is to 
be used. 

Press yeast is obtained from skimming the froth from the 
wash in active fermentation, which contains the upper 
yeast, and repeatedly washing it with cold water until the 
pure white yeast only settles clear from the water. It is 
estimated that a single cubic inch of air-dried press-yeast 
contains 1,200,000,000 of minute yeast organisms. Press- 
yeast dates back as far as 1847, and the introduction of yeast 
from beer to 1817. 

German yeast should be moist and thoroughly mixed with 
the milk or water with which the bread is to be made. 

The so-called Patent Yeast is the cheapest and at the 
same time the weakest of these ferments ; very good bread, 
however, is made with it, and it is most extensively used 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



, YEAST AND ITS PREPARATION. 83 

. by bakers.* It is made either with or without hops: when 
with hops, it is called hop-yeast, and is nothing mosx. tlian 
a decoction of hops to which malt is added while iu a scald- 

^ ing hot state ; when the liquor has fallen to a blood heat, a 
certain quantity? of brewers or German yeast is thoroughly 
mixed with it, and the whole is left at rest. The use of 
hops is intended to diminish the tendency of this solution 
to become acid. 

J otato yeaat is also a species of patent yeast in very gen- 
eral use. 

We give below a variety of methods for making yeasts 
acid ferments for bread, which can be used with safety, al- 
ways remembering, however, that the best yeast, as well as 

. the best bread, are made by allowing plenty of time and a 
gentle temperature for all the processes to be carried out iu 
a natural manner. 

brewers' YEAST. 

Seventy-two lbs. unkilned malt and a handful of hops 
are gradually stirred in a clean tub containing 7 gallons of 
water, (170 degrees Fahr.) ; and to this 5i gallons of water 
(200 degrees) are added. The tub is then covered tightly 
and left quiet for rest ; supposing this to be done at 6 P. M. 
the whol ' is left until 7 next morning, when it must be 
cooled rapidly by setting in cans filled with cold water. 
When the temperature of the mash has reached 70 degrees, 
the tub is covered again and left during the day till 6 P. M.; 
at this time IJ gallons fresh beer yeast are to be stirred in. 
In 12 hours pierce a hole in the layer formed by the husks 
of malt, and dip 'd\ gallons of the liquor beneath ; then stir 
the whole up and dip IJ gallons from it (husks and liquor). 
This is the mother-barm, from which you can generate 
yeast all the year round by using it instead of the ordinary 
beer leaven. To the remainder of the tub add 5 gals, wort 
of 90 degrees, and make use of it within 2 hours. The 

* In recipes where yeast is bimply mentioned, the reference is in the 
majority of cases to Patent Yeast or yeast made with hops. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



84 YEAST AND ITS PREPARATION. 

mother yeast must also be used the same day for ferment- 
ing another portion. 

If brewers' yeast should at any time be bitter, add about 
half the quantity of water that there is of yeast, and strain 
all through a hair sieve half full of bran, two or three 
times ; this will take away the bitter taste entirely. 

PATENT YEAST ( 1 ) . 

Simmer 6 ozs. hops in 3 gallons of water for 3 hours ; strain 
it, and in 10 minutes stir in i peck ground malt. Be-boil 
the hops in water; add the liquor to the mash already 
made, which must be well stirred up, covered over and 
left for four hours; drain off the wort, and when cooled 
down to 90° ( Fahr.) set it to work with 1 pint patent yeast ; 
after standing from 20 to 24 hours, take off the scum ; strain 
through a coarse hair sieve, and it is ready for use. 

PATENT YEAST (2). 

} peck ground malt. J lb good hops. 

Boil the hops in 2 gallons of water for two hours, stirring 
occasionally ; when strj^'ned off, put 1 gallon of water more 
to the hops for second mash. When the first hop liquor 
is at 160° ( Fahr.) put in the malt, stirring occasionally ; at 
the end of 2 hours strain it off, and strain the second hop 
liquor at 175° upon the grains; let that remain 2 hours; 
mix the first and second liquors together, and when at 70** 
mix in well IJ pints ready-made parent yeast; let it fer- 
ment for 12 hours, and when ready cork down for use. 

STOCK YEAST. 

stock yeast is brewed from hops, malt and flour, and is 
used for stocking or setting a ferment to work. The fer- 
ment is composed of potatoes and flour, and with it the 
baker sets his sponge. A good stock yeast may be made 
by boiling 3 gallons of water in a very clean kettle; put 
into it 4 ozs.of hops and let it boil for 10 or 15 minutes; 
take an eartheru jar, or tub made of oak, and put therein 
about 2^ lbs flour and 1^ lbs mall; strain through a colander 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



YEAST AND ITS PREPARATION. 85 

or sieve some of the boiling liquor off the hops into the 
flour and malt, And mash to a paste, in order to scald the 
flour and malt; strain the remaining liquor with it and 
stir; set to cool. 

When the liquor is just blood-heat or luke-warm, mix 
with it a quart of either some other good stock or brewers* 
yeast ; set to rise, in a cool place in summer, and in a com- 
fortable place in winter ; cover over with a good fitting 
cover and do not disturb it for 30 or 40 hours. This stock 
can be used from 8 to 10 days if kept in a cool ice-box, and 
may be renewed by making a fresh brewing as often as 
desired. 

Bakers often deem it advisable to change the stock ; that 
is, when they make a fresh stock, to get a quart of stock 
from some other baker, and so make a change. This, how- 
ever, is a mistake, as a change can be better made by scald- 
ing the malt with the flour, at one time ; and the next, by 
putting in the malt just before stocking it off", or setting it 
to rise. 

YEAST WITHOUT A FERMENT ( 1 ). 

Boil t peck malt in 3 pints water ; pour off 2 pints, and 
keep it in a warm place for 30 hours ; add 4 pints of a 
similar decoction ; stir it well in, again ferment and repeat 
this addition of 4 pints until a sufficient quantity of yeast 
is obtained ; 10 pints will yield sufficient for a brewing of 
40 gallons, and is preferable to brewers' yeast for raising 
bread. 

YEAST WITHOUT A FERMENT (2). 

Put 2 ozs. of the best hops into 9 pints of cold water; 
boil one-half hour; strain while hot and add 2 ozs. fine 
table salt and J lb sugar. When the mixture becomes 
blood-warm, put 1 fi> sifted flour into a large basin ; make a 
well in the centre with the hand; add the liquor by 
degrees, stirring with a spoon until the whole is thoroughly 
incorporated ; let it stand for two days in a warm place, 
stirring it three or four times a day ; boil and mash finely 3 
S>s good potatoes and mix in. After standing one day 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



YEAST AND II^ PREPARATION. 



more, there should be a heavy, dark scum on the surface ; 
stir it thoroughly ; strain through a sieve or colander ; 
put it into a stone jar ; cork, tie down firmly and keep in a 
cool cellar. This is a self-fermenting yeast, improves by 
keeping if not left uncorked, and williiot make sour bread. 

YEAST WITHOUT A FERMENT (3). 

Common wheat flour is to be mixed with water Into a 
thick paste, and kept, slightly covered, in a moderately 
warm place, for some time. About the third day it begins 
to emit a little gas, and to exhale a disagreeable sour odor, 
like stale milk ; after the lapse of a few days, that is about 
the sixth or seventh day, the smell changes, much gas is 
evolved, accompanied by a distinct and agreeable vinous 
odor, and it is then in a state to excite vinous fermentation. 
An infusion of crushed malt (wort) is next boiled with 
hops, and when cooled to 90<* or 100** (Fahr.), the decom- 
posed dough, thoroughly mixed with tepid water, is to be 
added, and the whole kept in a warm situation. After 
the lapse of a few hours, active fermentation takes place, 
carbonic acid is disengaged, and when the action is com- 
pleted and the liquor clear, a large quantity of yeast of 
excellent quality is found at the bottom of the vessefcv 

YEAST WITH A FERMENT. 

Mix 2 quarts of water with wheat flour to the consistence 
of thick gruel ; boil it gently for a half hour, and when 
almost cold, stir into it J fc sugar and 4 spoonsful of good 
yeast. Put the whole into a large jug or earthern vessel, 
with a narrow top, and place it before the flre, so that it 
may, by a moderate heat, fernaent. The fermentation will 
throw up a thin liquor, which pour oft* and throw away ; 
keep the remainder for U8e(inacooi place) in a bottle or 
jug, tied over. The same quantity of thi? as of common 
yeast will suffice to bake or brew with. Four spoonsfui of 
this yeast will make a fresh quantity as before, au(i the 
stock may be always kept up, by fermenting the hew y^itli 
the remains of the former quantity. "^ /? 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



YEAST AND ITS PREPARATION. 87 

YEAST FROM GRAPE LEAVES. 

Grape leaves make a yeast in some respects superior to 
hops, as the bread made from it rises sooner, and has not the 
peculiar taste which many object to in that made from 
hops. Use 8 or 10 leaves for a quart of yeast ; boil them for 
ten minutes ; pour the hot liquor on the flour, the quantity 
of the latter being determined by whether the yeast is 
wanted thiek or thin ; use the hop-yeast to raise it with to 
begin With, and afterwards that made of grape leaves. 
Dried leaves will be as good as fresh. If a dark fllm ap- 
pears upon the surface when rising, a little stirring will 
obviate it. 

FAMILY YEAST (1). 

2 Tablespoons hops, 1 qt. water. 

Let them steep well ; make a thickening of six large po- 
tatoes ( boiled and mashed fine ) and 3 tablespoons of flour 
worked into the potatoes; strain the hop water upon it; 
stir it well, and when cool add enough yeast to work it ; 
bottle and keep in a cool place. 

FAMILY YEAST (2). 

Take nine medium. sized potatoes, and boil tliem in 2 
qls. of water. When soft, run through a cullender; add 
2 tablespoons salt, 1 tablespoon ginger, and J fc brown sugar. 
Have a small handful of hops steeped in 1 qt. water ; strain 
this liquor and pour it over the potatoes, salt, ginger and 
sugar; stir well ; when cool enough add about J pt. good 
yeast. 

YEAST FOR HOT CLIMATES. 

Boil 2 ozs. of the best hops in 4 qts. of water for half an 
hour; strain it, and let the liquor cool down to new milk 
warmth; put in a handful of salt, and ilb brown sugar; 
beat up 1 tt) best flour with some of the liquor, mixing all 
well together. The third day add 3 lbs potatoes, boiled and 
mashed, and Jet it stand until the day following; then 
strain, and it is ready for use. Stir frequently when mak- 
ing, and keep near a fire. Before using, stir well; it will 
keep two or three months in a cool place. As this yeast is 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



YEAST AND ITS PREPARATION. 



very strong, half the usual quantity is necessary for a bak- 
ing. This yeast may be kept in as high a temperature as 
104^(Fahr.) 

TO REMEDY BITTERNESS IN YfiAST. 

Yeast is often so bitter as to communicate a most disa- 
greeable taste to bread. This may be derived from an ex- 
cess of hops. To rectify this, mix with the yeast a consider- 
. able quantity of water and set it by to rest for some hourcj, 
when the thick part will fall to the bottom. Pour off the 
water, which will have extracted part of the bitter princi- 
ple, and use only the stifT part that has fallen to the 
bottom. 

But yeast sometimes acquires a bitter taste from keeping, 
which is quite independent of that derived from the hops. 
To remedy this, throw into th** yeast a few clean coals 
freshly taken from the fire, but allowed to cool a little on the 
surface. The operation appears to depend in principle up- 
on the power of freshly burnt charcoal to absorb gases and 
remove offensive odors. 

In country places where it is customary to keep yeast for 
sometime, and especially during the warmth of summer, 
it is very liable to sour. In such cases it may be restored 
to sweetness by adding a little carbonate of soda, or carbo- 
nate of magnesia, only as much being used as is necessary 
to neutralize the acidity. 

DRY HOP YEAST. 

1 pint strong thick stock 1 fc corn meal, 
yeast. 2 lbs flour. 

1 pint fresh ferment. 2 ozs sugar. 

Mix all together to a thick dough, without kneading ; cut 
in suitable cakes, and dry in as cool a place as possible. If 
covered with meal and dried under a slight pressure of 
board and weight, till so much of the moisture is expelled 
that it cannot ferment, these cakes will be as free from 
breakage as the dry yeast of the stores. 

YEAST CAKES. 

Bub 3 ozs of f^esh hops until they are separated ; bdl } 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



YEAST AND ITS PREPARATION. 



hour in a gallon of water, and strain the liquor through a 
fine sieve, into an earthen vessel. While hot, stir in briskly 
3i ft)S rye-flour. The next day thoroughly mix in 7 lbs In- 
dian meal; form a stiff dough, kneading it well; roll out 
J or J inch thick, cutting into cakes ; dry in the sun, turn- 
ing every day, and protecting from the wet. If preserved 
perfectly from damp they will keep a long time. 

TO PRESERVE YEAST. 

Ordinary beer-yeast may be kept fresh and flt for use for 
several months, by placing it in a close canvas bag, and 
gently squeezing out the moisture in a screw-press, till the 
remaining matter becomes as stiff as clay ; in which state 
it must be preserved in close vessels. Another manner to 
preserve and condense yeast is to take a quantity of yeast 
and work it well with a whisk until it becomes thin ; then 
take a clean wooden dish or platter, and with a soft brush 
Jay on a thin layer of the yeast and let it dry in the air. 
When the first coat is dry lay on another and let that dry ; 
and so continue till the quantity is sufficient. By this 
means it may soon be made two or three inches thick, when 
it may be preserved perfectly good, in dry canuisters, for a 
, long time. When wanted for use, cut off a piece and lay it 
in warm water till it is dissolved, when it is fit for use. 

YEAST FERMENT FOR BREAD. 

Boil (some prefer to steam) say 3 lbs of potatoes ; mash 
them and rub through a colandar ; stir in i lb fiour reduced 
to the consistency of thick cream with cold water ; when 
as warm as new milk, stir in well 1 pt Patent Yeast ; let it 
work for 12 hours, when it is ready to make sponge for 
bread. The sponge should be prepared for the oven as soon 
as the yeast has performed its mission, otherwise fermenta- 
tion sets in and acidity results. In making bread, if the 
fl^onge should come too slowly, the geneTftl fault is that it 
hAs been set cooler or warmer than the first yeast was 
stocked. It should be exactly the same temperature. If 
on the other hand it is desired to stay the sponge, and not 
let ft (h>tne too fast, add a handful of salt more than the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



90 BUTTER, SUGAR, EQGS, ETC. 

usual quantity. Do not use too much yeast for the purpose of 
forcing bread to rise quickly ; on the contrary use as little 
yeast as possible, the bread in consequence always being 
much sweeter, and making better proof. Add the proper 
quantity of salt, even if it delays the dough. Finally, be 
careful in proving dough before the fire, not to overheat it. 



CHAPTEE VII. 

BUTTER, SUGAR, EGGS AND OTHER INGREDI- 
ENTS USED IN THE BAKERY. 

FRUITS AND FliAVORINGS. 

Batter — Its Normal Smell and Color —Tests for Pure Butter — How 
Adulterated— High and Low Grades— Proper Quantity of Salt 
and Water— How to Detect a Fraudulent Quantity— To Deter- 
mine the Presence of Starch — Fatty Adulterations — How to 
Detect Them— Butterine— Beef-fat— Oleomargarine— How to 
Restore Rancid Butter— To Clarify Butter— To Cream Butter 
and Sugar— General Notes About the Use of Butter — Lard — 
How Adulterated— Tests for the Same— Uses of Lard — Sugar — 
Adulterations— Chalk, Plaster, Fecula and Grape Sugar — How 
to Distinguish Glucose— What Elnd^ of Su^r the- Baker Should . 
Buy— Loaf and Granulated Sugars-— Tests for. Determining 
Pure Cane Sugar— (1) by Distillation— (2) by Polarized Light 
— (3) Chevallier's Test with Caustic Potassa— (4) Trommer's 
Test with Sulphate of Copper and Hydrate of Potassium, by 
which the 1-lOOOth Part of Grape Sugar May be Detected- 
Preparation of Fancy Sugars— Barley Sugar- -Cinnamon 
Sugar— Clove Sugar— Ginger Sugar— Graiiite Sugar, Plain and 
Colored- Icing Sugar— Lemon Sugar, or Zest— Orange- 
Flower Sugar— Orange Sugar, or Zest— Sugar Grains, or Sana- 
How to Color the Latter — Vanilla Sugar (l)-r-Vanilla Sugar (2> 
Eggs— New Laid Eggs— Fresh Eggs— ** Candling "—Rule for 
Determining Fresh and Sound Eggs— Number of Eggs — Usf s 
of figgs— How Eggs Should be Beat— Wh6n the Yolks and 
Whites Should be Separated, and When Not— How to Beat the 
Whites of Eggs— The Addition of Salt— Milk— Test for Adul- 
teration with ¥^ter — How to Sweeten Soar Milk — How to 
Keep Milk— Use of Sour Milk, or Buttermilk in Cakes — Butter- 
milk—Cream—Single and Double Cream^-^Water — None Abso- 
lutely Pure, Except Distalled-r-Soft Water— Its Uses and Benefits- 
— ^Purification of Water— How to Soften Hard Water — To Pu- 
rify Muddy Water— Tepid Water— Use of Water in Bread- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BUTTER, SUGAR, EGGS, ETC. 91 

General Notes, etc. — Salt — What Kind to Use — How to Keep— 
Quantity Variable— Use in Checking tbe Sponge — Chemicals — 
Inflaence on the System — How They Should be Used — ^Their 
Impurities — Muriatic Acid — Tartaric Acid — Sesqui-carbonate 
of Ammonia — Soda — Soda-Saleratus— Uses of Chemicals— How 
to Purchase Them— How to Use Baking Powder, Saleratus, 
Soda, etc. — How to Increase the Proportions of Chemicals in 
Becipes— Tea, or Soda Biscuits- Formula for the Preparation 
of Baking Powder— Marvin's Prepared Flour— Chemicals and 
Their Action on Molasses in Giug rbread — Dr. Colquhoun's 
Method — ^Fruits— Almonds— Varieties— How to Blanch Almonds 
-• — ^How to Split Almonds — To Shred Almonds— To Chop Al- 
monds — To Color Almonds— General Directions tor Preparing 
and Using Almonds — Peach Kernels — Various Other Fruits 
Used by the Baker— How to.add Currants aod Raisins to Cakes- 
Fruit in Raised Cakes— Candied Peel — Fruit Jellies — Flavorings 
— Spices — Aromatic Seeds — Oils, Essences and Liaueurs — Gen- 
eral Notes in Regard to Flavoring Cakes. 

BUTTER. 

Butter is the fktty material obtained from cream by 
churning. When fresh, it has a pleasant odor, and is of an 
equal color throughout its substance. If it smells sour, the 
buttermilk has not been well worked out ; if it is streaked, 
or veiny, it is probably mixed with stale butter or lard. A 
good way to test butter is to thrust a knife into it, which 
should not smell rancid and unpleasant when withdrawn. 
The cheaper kinds of butter are frequently adulterated with 
common wheat flour, starch, oatmeal, pea-flour, lard, and 
are sometimes mixed with suet and turnips, as well as with 
a large quantity of salt and water. The higher priced 
article is seldom mixed with anything beyond an excess of 
salt and water. The presence of lard may be detected by 
the flavor and paleness of color. A little of the sample 
adulterated with the other substances named, if melted in a 
glass tube or phial, will separate into strata, which are 
very marked when cold. 

The proper quantity of water and salt in good butter is 2 
per cent, of the latter and 10 per cent, of the former ; and 
yet as butter te frequently sold containing as high as 80 per 
centi of' water, it becomes a seriolis object to be able to test 
the quantity of this adulterant, which may be done «s fol-' 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



92 BUTTER, SUQAB, EQGS, ETC. 

lows: A fair sample of the butter should be taken from the 
centre of the piece or lump, as near the surface, part of the 
water might have escaped. It is to be melted and a bottle 
filled with it. This is to be placed for a half hour or so 
near the fire; the water and salt will become separated 
from the butter and suet according to tlie greater weight or 
specific gravity. Owing to the water being mixed with a 
little whey, it usually presents a white and milky appear- 
ance, very distinct from that of the butter itself, which 
floats upon it, and which is more or less yellow ; the quan- 
tity of water is then estimated roughly by noticing the 
height it reaches up the bottle. In some cases it will be 
found that the water constitutes J or even J of the whole 
weight of the butter. To estimate the amount of salt in 
butter, a weighed portion must be incinerated, and the salt 
determined by an estimate of chlorine by means of nitrate 
of silver. In general, the whole of the ash of salt butter 
may be counted as salt. 

To determine the presence of starch in butter, examine 
a minute portion of the butter spread out in the thinnest 
possible layer and covered with a plate of thin glass, with 
i OT i inch object glass, tincture of iodine being in some 
cases employed at the same time. The starch will be recog- 
nized either by the form of the granules, or by the action 
of the iodine, which turns starch of a violet color. 

The detection of fatty matters in butter is a difficult pro- 
cess, but the following is a good general test: To a few tea- 
spoonsful of boiling water, contained in a glass test tube or 
a wide-mouthed bottle, add a small quantity of the suspec- 
ted butter ; when it is melted and floating as upper strata 
on the water, gradually shake the vessel, when the fat 
will break up into globules, and partially sinking, will rise 
again, showing the diameter of the globules, which, if 
readily seen, indicates that the specimen is not pure butter, 
but that it is wholly impure, or else that it is adulterated. 
Pure butter treated in this manner divides into minute 
globules so small and so rapidly that it has the appearance 
of corn-starch. In the application of this testj care must be 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BUTTER, SUGAR, EQOS, ETC. Oi^ 

taken that the water is hot, and that the butter is melted 
before any agitation is attempted. Again, spurious butter, 
if thus treated, will clear up more rapidly. Butterine, 
containing oleine, will, when shaken with water, divide 
into minute globules which will, after rising again to the 
surface, if permitted to stand a while, enlarge and thus 
remain until they are again broken up. 

An easy method of ascertaining whether butter is adul- 
terated with beef fat is to saturate a cotton wick with the 
suspected sample, which is first melted. The wick is then 
lighted and allowed to burn for about two minutes: it is 
then extinguished, and if the butter is adulterated it is 
easily discovered by the odor emitted, similar to that from 
a tallow candle. 

The simplest and surest test for oleomargarine is to heat 
the substance in a small toy frying pan. Butter will grad- 
ually get brown and smell nicely, even when already 
beginning to turn black. Oleomargarine will never get 
brown, but will directly, if the heating continues, change 
from clear yellow fat to black, and emit all the while the 
odor familiar to those who live near a fat factory. A little 
practice and attention will enable any person not only to 
distinguish by sight and smell between oleomargarine and 
butter, but even to find out the approximate percentage of 
the former, or of any other fat, in any compound, sold as 
butter.* 

Rancid butter may be restored, or, in all cases greatly 
improved, by meltiug it in a water-bath with freshly 
burned and coarsely powdered animal charcoal (which has 
been thoroughly freed from dust by sifting), and straining 
it through clean flannel. A better and less tedious method, 
however, is to work the butter well, first with some good 

♦ M. Donny has described, in a note to the Belgian Academy, a simple 
means of detecting artificial butter. He finds that if artificial butter Is 
heated to 290 -3i0 degrees Fahrenheit, it produces little froth, but inanv vio- 
lent jerks during the boiling, while the caseous matter separates in clots and 
becomes brown, the fatty portion retaining its color. Fure butter, *»n the 
other hand, froths abundantly, and the whole takes a characteristic brown 
tint, without the violent ebullition of the artificial compound. He ex- 
presses some surprise that this simple test had uot been discovered before. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



94 BUTTER, SUGAR, EGGS, ETC. 

new milk, and next with cold spring water; butyric acid, 
on the presence of which racidity depends, being freely 
soluble in fresh milk. 

To Clarify Butter»— Melt fresh butter in a water-bath; 
allow it to settle; pour off the clear portion into an earthen 
basin or pot ; set in cold water, so as to cool it as quickly as 
possible, without allowing it to crystallize. It will keep a 
long time without becoming rancid. 

To Cream Butter and Sugar.^They should be thor- 
oughly incorporated by gentle beating in a clean vessel 
with a wooden spatula, until they become of the consis- 
tency of rich, thick cream. Butter may be thus treaty 
alone. 

Good butter should always be used in making cakes, and 
if beat to a cream, it saves much time and lab6r to slightly 
warm (but not melt it) before beating; still, unless so speci- 
fied in recipes, it is preferable to be neither melted nor 
warmed before mixing. Less butter and eggs are required 
for cakes when yeast is mixed with the other ingredients. 
Butter can be substituted for lard and lard for butter in a 
great number of cases. Unless so specified in recipes, 
fresh butter should always be used in preference to salt, in 
the preparation of cakes. 

LARD. 

Lard is the fat of the pig freed from the tissues in which 
the fatty matter is contained. It is frequently adulterated 
with water, starch and potato fiour. To test for water, 
weigh a portion of lard, say 2 grammes ; expose it to heat 
until the lard ceases to lose weight; the loss indicates the 
amount of water it contains. Starch may be detected by 
thoroughly mixing a drop of tincture of iodine with a few 
grammes of lard placed upon a slip of glass, when if starch 
is present, the lard will change color and become a deep 
blue or almost black. Lard is better to grease cake tins 
with than table butter. If lard is objectionable, however, 
unsalted butter may be used for this purpose. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BUTTER, SUQAK, EGOS, ETC. 05 

SUGAR. 

Moist or Muscovada sugar, as well as crushed lump 
sugar, are frequently adulterated with chalk, plaster, sand, 
potato-flour and other feculse; but more generally with 
starch sugar, potato-sugar, and grape sugar or glucose. The 
invariable presence of sulphuric acid in all grape sugars, 
renders the detection of these a comparatively easy matter, 
(jilucose may also be distinguished by the smooth feel it 
gives to the touch, coarse grained, well crystallized sugar 
being always the best. The baker makes a great mistake 
when he buys anything but pure cane sugar, and will in 
all probability cheat himself far more than his customers. 
Loaf sugar should be well pounded, and passed through a 
sieve, before being used. When sugar is mentioned in 
recipes, white loaf or granulated sugar is always intended, 
unless brown sugar, or some other kind is specially men- 
tioned. 

TESTS FOB DETERMINING PURE CANE SUGAR. 

(1.) Pure cane sugar dissolves ifreely and entirely in 
both water and proof spirits, forming a colorless transpar- 
ent solution, which is unaffected by either sulphuretted 
hydrogen, or dilute sulphuric acid. 

( 2.) Its solution bends the luminous rays in circumpo- 
lorization to the right, whereas grape and fecula sugars 
bend it to the left. 

(3.) Boiled for a short time in water containing 2 or 3 
per cent, of caustic potassa, the liquid remains colorless; 
but it turns brown, which is more or less intense according 
to the quantity, if starch sugar is present. Even 2 or 3 per 
cent, of starch sugar may be thus detected.— (Chevallier.) 

(4.) A solution of cane sugar is mixed with a solution of 
sulphate of copper, and hydrate of potassium added in ex- 
cess ; a blue liquid is obtained, which, on being heated, is 
at first but little altered ; a small quantity of red powder 
falls after a time, but the liquid long retains its blue tint. 
When grape sugar or fecula sugar is thus tested, the first 
application of heat throws down a copious greenish precip- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



iJ6 BUTTER, SUGAR, EGGS, ETC. 

itate, which rapidly changes to scarlet, and eventually to 
dark red, leaving a nearly colorless solution. This is an 
excellent test for discovering the two varieties of sugar, or 
discovering an admixture of grape sugar with cane sugar. 
The 1-lOOOth part of grape sugar may be thus detected. 
The proportion of oxide of copper produced affords a good 
criterion, not only of the purity of the sugar, but also of 
the extent of the adulteration.— (Trommer.) 

PREPARATION OF FANCY SUGARS. 

Barley Sugar,— SugSLi boiled until it is quite transparent 
and crisp ; formerly in barley water. It is flavored with 
either orange or lemon peel. 

Cinnamon Sugar.— Dry 2 ozs cinnamon ; pound it with 
1 lb loaf sugar in a mortar until both are thoroughly pul- 
verized; sift through a sieve and put away in a well- 
stopped bottle. 

Clove Sugar,— Dry 2 ozs cloves and proceed as for cinna* 
mon sugar. 

Ginger Sugar.— "Pound 2 ozs ground ginger with 1 lb 
sugar ; sift and put away. 

Granite Sugar, — Take loaf sugar ; pound it a little ; place 
it on a clean board or marble, and pass a rolling-pin over it 
until it is reduced to the size required. Take a wire sieve 
with a mesh the size of the lumps required, say i inch 
square; sift the sugar through the sieve, and re-crush what 
will not pass through ; when this is completed sift it again, 
through a sieve of a finer mesh, and what will not go 
through this sieve is the Granite sugar. 

To color this pink, place it on a piece of paper and 
sprinkle liquid cochineal or prepared carmine on it, and 
with both hands rub the sugar and color together until it 
is covered ; place in a warm place to dry. (Some also per- 
fume it by the addition of rose or other flavors.) Proceed in 
like manner for all other colors. A good '* grain " of gran- 
ite sugar, plain and variously edited, is very useful for 
decorative purposes. 

Icing Sugar,— See Chapter 8. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BUTTER, SUGAB, EQGS, ETC. 97 

Lemon Sugar or Zest — Grate the yellow rind of fre^li 
lemons upon fine white loaf sugar until all the sugar is 
stained; mix it well; spread it upon a tin and dry in a 
warm place ; separate the particles of sugar, by rubbing 
them between the hands. 

Orange- Flower /S'w^ar.— Pound4 ozs candied orange flow- 
ers with 1 fi> loaf sugar ; sift and put away. 

Orange Sugar or Ze8t,—B.\\h the rind of a dozen oranges 
on lumps of sugar ; scrape this off; dry on paper on a plate 
in a warm, place ; put away in a stopped bottle for use. 

Sugar G^raina.— These are made by pounding white lump 
sugar in a mortar and shaking it through sieves of 
different degrees of coarseness, thus accumulating grains 
of different sizes. They are used in ornamenting cakes. 

Sugar Grains (colored).— Stir a little coloring, as essence 
of spinach, or prepared cochineal, or liquid carmine, or in- 
digo, rouge, saffron, etc— into sugar grains until each grain 
is stained ; spread them on a baking sheet and dry in a 
warm place. 

VaniUa Sugar (1.) Cut up 3 sticks of vanilla into small 
pieces ; pound in a mortar with } % loaf sugar ; pass through 
a hair sieve ; beat the dregs with \ lb more loaf sugar, 
which pass as before; put into a canister for use. 

VaniUa Sugar (2.)— Chop finely 4 sticks of vanilla; 
pound them with 1 % loaf sugar ; sift and put away. 

EGGS. 

The larger end of a new laid egg feels cold when placed 
against the tongue. New laid eggs appear serai-transpa- 
rent when placed between the eye and a strong light, and 
have a small and perceptible division of skin from the 
shell which is filled with air. This mode of examination 
is called *• candling ^^ among the trade; when they shake, 
they are stale. Sound eggs will sink if put into a solution 
consisting of 1 oz salt in 10 ozs of water; in the same solu- 
tion, indifferent ones will float, while bad or worthless 
ones will swim even in pure water. The old recipe for 
using this test, is to disolve 120 grammes (about } lb) of com- 
o 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BUTTER, SUGAR, EGOS, ETC. 



mon salt in a liter (a little more than a quart) of water. 
An egg put in tliis solution on the day it is laid, will sink 
to the bottom ; one a day old, will not reach quite to the 
bottom of the vessel; an egg three days old will swim in 
the liquid ; while one more than three days old will swim 
on the surface. 

Eggs should be used with great care, as a single bad one 
will spoil a whole mixture; they may be broken separ- 
ately into a cup, and in this manner the bad ones can be 
easily rejected without spoiliog the others, and so cause no 
waste; they should also, when practicable, be strained. 
The number of eggs in cake may be increased, diminished 
or dispensed with entirely by the substitution of other 
aerating substances, such as ammonia. As eggs are used in 
place of yeast, they should be very thoroughly whisked : 
this is generally attained when thick enough to carry the 
drop that falls from the whisk. 

As a general rule for small mixtures of lady-flngers, 
sponge cakes, etc., it is preferable to beat the yolks and 
whites of eggs separately. A good way of doing this is to 
beat the whites to a hard substance and mix into it one- 
third of the sugar, a little at a time; mix the remaining 
two-thirds of the sugar with the yolks, stirring in with a 
spatula, so as to break the yolks ; mix the whites and beat 
up briskly for a few seconds; mix in the flour last, 
and the operation is complete. Of course there are ex- 
ceptions to the above rule. First, if it becomes nec- 
essary to beat up a sufficient number of eggs for say a 
large sponge cake mixture of 12 or 15 lbs, it is better to beat 
the eggs whole with the sugar, for the simple reason that 
so many whites cannot be beaten stiff enough, it beiog too 
many in one batch ; therefore, in a case of this kind it is 
better to beat them all together. Again, a great deal de- 
pends upon the quality of the eggs ; if not fresh, it is bet- 
ter to beat them whole, as the whites and yolks of old eggs 
cannot be well separated, or if they are, there is not suffi- 
cient strength in the whites to be whipped up to a 
good solid substance. In cakes containing yeast or soda, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



MILK, CHEMICALS, ETC. 99 

the whites and yolks should as a general rule not be beaten 
separately. 

When beating the whites of eggs do not stop after hav- 
ing once begun till they are very stiff, else they will go 
back, and can never be brought up as light again. 

To beat the whites of eggs quickly, put in a pinch of salt. 
The cooler the eggs the quicker they will froth. Salt cools 
and also freshens them. Again, a few drops of water in 
the wbites will prevent their whipping to a stiff froth. 

The laborious operation of beating eggs is now rapidly 
and conveniently accomplished by machinery. 

MILK. 

To discover the amount of water in milk ; mix 1 oz of 
Plaster of Paris with the milk to be examined to a stiff 
paste, and then allow it to stand. Witji milk of 1.030 
specific gravity, and a temperature of 60® Fahr., it will 
harden in ten hours ; if 25 per cent, of water is present, in 
two hours; if 60 per cent, in one and a half hours; and 
with 75 per cent, in thirty minutes. Skimmed milk which 
has been standing for 24 hours and is of 1.033 specific grav- 
ity sets in four hours; with 60 per cent, of water, in one 
hour, and with 75 per cent., in thirty minutes. Heat should 
not be applied, for then the use of the thermometer would 
be required. 

Milk which has been turned or changed may be sweet- 
ened or rendered fit for use again by stirring in a little 
soda. 

In making cakes, water can always be substituted for 
milk, or milk for water. 

Milk should always be kept in a cool place and in clean 
vessels, which have been previously scalded. 

If sour milk or buttermilk is used in making cake, it 
must be placed in the oven as soon as put together, unless 
like hard gingerbread or cookies, it needs to be rolleo' out 
or moulded ; in which case it is not injured if it stands for 
some hours. 

Buttermilk—ihe liquid that remains after the butter is 
separated from the cream« 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



100 MILK, CHEMICALS, ETC. 

Creamy the oleaginous portion of the milk which collects 
in a thin stratum upon the surface when that fluid is left 
undisturbed for some time. Single Cream, is the cream that 
has stood on the milk twelve hours. Double Crea;m stands 
on the milk twenty-four hours 

WATER. 

Absolutely pure water is not found in nature, nor does it 
indeed seem to be required by the animal economy. It is 
only pure when distilled, and in this state it is neither 
pleasant to the taste nor wholesome. The purest waters 
always contain some amount, however small, of common 
salt, lime, iron and other saline matters, as also organic 
matter. It is only when these substances exist in large 
amounts that the water becomes objectionable. Gk>od water 
is generally known by its softness, its limpid and somewhat 
sparkling appearance, its agreeable flavor, and its non-lia- 
bility to become putrid. Soft water (or that which is free 
from minerals) makes it way into, or is imbibed by organ- 
ized tissues, with much more readiness and facility than 
hard water. It also exerts a more powerful solvent or ex- 
tractive action, and thus is a better vehicle for conveying 
alimentary substances into the living organism; and is 
therefore the only water that should be used by the baker. 
Mechanical impurities, or such as are suspended in water, 
may be remedied by rest or filtration, but chemical im- 
purities, or such as are dissolved, pass through the filter 
which has no means of separating them. 

Hard water may be softened by the addition of a solution 
of carbonate of soda or potash. 

To purify muddy water, agitate each quart of water with 
1 oz phosphate of lime and allow it to settle. This requires 
only a few minutes, and it will be found that most of the 
impurities are carried down to the bottom. The super- 
natant water is now filtered without any trouble through 
absorbent cotton. Ordinary cotton will answer as well, if 
previously moistened with alcohol, and then washed with 
water. Of course either of them must be pressed tightly 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



MILK, CHEMICALS, ETC. 101 

into the neck of a funnel. By this means perfectly clear 
water can be obtained in about five minutes. 

The water used in making bread must be tepid. If it is 
too hot, the loaf will be full of great holes. Tepid water is 
produced by combining | cold and J boiling water. Great 
care should be taken to regulate the warmth of the water 
used in bread-making in winter, and to keep it cool in sum- 
mer; use ice-water, if in warm climates. Have a box 
made to hold water, and put ice in it, so as to have cold 
water handy. 

When warm water has to be used for bread, use the most 
of it in the sponge, as the dough wants to be worked as 
cool as possible. 

Some flour requires more water, or milk, than others ; so 
that the quantity meutioned in recipes may have to be 
varied to make the dough of a proper consistency. 

SALT. 

Salt should be obtained as pure as possible and of the 
best quality. It should be kept in a dry place and not be 
allowed to absorb moisture, and thus to be damp before 
being added to bread. The quantity of salt in bread-mak- 
ing varies. In cold weather never use as much as in warm. 
When lard is used in place of salt butter in cakes and 
crackers, more salt is required to replace that lacking from 
the butter. Salt is sometimes used in the sponge to arrest 
too rapid fermentation. 

CHEMICALS. 

The class of substances thus introduced into bread, etc., 
are not nutritious; they rather exert a disturbing action 
upon the healthy organism, and although their use may be 
tolerated for convenience, yet they should in all cases be 
used with great Judgment, and in the least possible quanti- 
ties that will effect the objects in view^ either to produce a 
proper lightness or to neutralize and remove acidity. This 
is the best that can be said of the chemical substances 
used in raising bread and cakes, even when pure; but as 
commonly obtained, they are apt to be contaminated with 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



102 MILK, CHEMICALS, ETC. 

impurities still more objectioDal than themselves. For ex- 
ample, the commercial muriatic acid which is commonly 
employed along with bi-carbonate of soda, is almost always 
impure, often containing chlorine, chloride of iron, sulphur- 
ous acid, and even arsenic, so that the chemist never uses it 
without a tedious process of purification for his purposes, 
which are of far less importance than its employment in 
the diet. While common hydrochloric acid sells for 3c. per 
fi>. wholesale, the pure article is sold for 35c. 

Tartaric acid is apt to contain lime, and is frequently 
adulterated with cream of tartar, which is sold at half the 
price, and greatly reduces its efficacy ; while cream of tartar 
is variously mixed with alum, chalk, bi-sulphate of potash, 
tartrate of lime, and even sand. Sesqui-carbonate of ammo- 
nia (hartshorn) is liable even by exposure to lose a portion 
of its ammonia.* If soda is desired, is is best to call for 
the bi-carbonate, which contains a double charge of car- 
bonic acid, and is also purest. SodaaaXeratvs^ is only the 
crude, impure carbonate. Soda-ash aud cream of tartar 
should appear white when pure, and not of a yellowish 
tinge. 

It will thus be seen that the chemical substances em- 
ployed by the baker to give lightness to his products are 
not only liable to injure by ingredients which they conceal, 
but that by their irregular composition must often more or 
less defeat the ends for which they are intended. We may 
say, however, that in the absence of tests, they should be 
purchased of a reputable dealer^ who will guarantee the 
articles as pure as possible. Owing to their adulteration, 
the proportions of chemicals given in recipes will have to 
often be substantiated by actual experience before using to 
any great extent. 

Baking powder, saleratus, tartaric acid, ammonia, etc., 
should in most cases be mixed with the flour in the dry 
state, and both passed through a fine sieve before being 

* It usually occurs in the fprm of white, fibrous, tran^luceiit or semi- 
translucent cakes, generally about 2 inches thick. '^ . 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



MILK, CHEMICALS, ETC. 108 

used. Always add soda last in cakes, and bake immedi- 
ately. 

When the proportions in any recipe are increased for the 
purpose of making a larger quantity, the proportions of 
the chemicals should not be increased as much as that of 
the other ingredients. Experience only can determine this 
matter. 

It is necessary in order to have good tea (or soda) bis- 
cuits that the soda and cream of tartar should be of the very 
best quality, for if the latter is not good, the biscuits will 
be green, and smell and taste of soda. Biscuit dough should 
not be worked too much, but should be kept as soft as is 
possible to handle. 

BAKING POWDER. 

8 lbs cream tartar. 4 lbs bi-carb soda. 

Powder and dry separately by gentle heat ; mix in a dry 
room; pass the mixture through a sieve; and place in air- 
tight glass jars. 

MARVIN^S PREPARED FLOUR. 

16 5)S flour. 2 ozs bi-carb soda. 

6 oz tartaric acid. 3 ozs salt. 

Mix and pass the compound through the "dressing ma- 
chine." It is necessary that the whole of the ingredients 
should be perfectly dry, and separately rfduced to fine 
powder before adding them to the flour. By simply mix- 
ing it with cold water, and at once baking it, it produces 
light, porous bread. ^ 

MOLASSES. 

One of the most curious branches of the baker's art is the 
manufacture of gingerbread, which contains such a pro- 
portion of molasses that it cannot be fermented by yeast. 
Its ingredients are flour, molasses, butter, common potashes 
and alum. After the butter is melted and the potashes and 
alum are dissolved in a little hot water, these three ingredi- 
ents, along with the molasses, are poured among the flour 
which is to form the body of the bread. The whole is then 
incorporated by mixing and kneading it into a stifl" dough. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



104 FRUITS AND FLAVORINGS. 

Of these five constituents the alum is the least essential, 
although it makes the bread lighter and crisper, and rend- 
ers the process more rapid; for gingerbread, dough requires 
to stand over for several days, some 8 or 10 before it acquires 
the porosity which qualifies it for the oven ; the action of 
the molasses and alum on the potashes, in evolving car- 
bonic acid, seems to be the gassifying principle of ginger- 
bread ; for if carb-potash is withheld from the mixture, the 
bread, when baked, resembles in hardness, a piece of wood. 
Molasses is always acidulous. Carbonate of magnesia and 
soda may be used as a substitute for the potaslies. Dr. Col- 
quhoun has found that carbonate of magnesia and tartaric 
acid may replace the potashes and the alum with great 
advantage, affording a gingerbread fully more agreiable to 
the taste, and much more wholesome than the common 
kind which contains a natural quantity of potashes. See 
Formulae and Memoranda under Gingerbread — Dr. Col- 
quhoun's method. 

FRUITS AND FLAVORINGS. 

Almonds. — Of these there are many varieties, the most 
important being the sweet and bitter, so named from the 
fiavor of the seed or kernel. When almonds are spoken of 
without qualification the sweet almond is always referred 
to. Of the latter there are four principal kinds, viz : (1.) 
Jordan Almonds. (2.) Valentia. (3.) Barbary and Ital- 
ian. (4.) A medium grade imported in baskets from Spain. 
Of these varieties the Jordan are the best and are most to 
be recommended to the baker for his use. 

Almonds are not generally used by the baker in their 
crude state, but pass through several processes of prepara- 
tion as described below. 

1. Blanched Almonds.— These are prepared by soaking 
the almonds for a short time in warm water, until their 
skins can be easily removed by pressure between the thumb 
and fore-finger. They are then peeled, rinsed in cold wa- 
ter, drained and dried. When intended for the table, the 
last Is effected by wiping them with a soft towel ; but when 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FBUITS AND FLAVORINGS. li)b 

they are intended to be pounded, or kept, they are dried by 
a gentle heat in a stove, or in the sun. 

Another method of blanching almonds is, to pour boil- 
ing water over them, allowing them to soak until the skin 
will slip. (They should not be boiled for 2 or 3 minutes, as 
recommended by some). Strain off the water ; throw the 
almonds on a cloth, which fold over them, and rub them 
to remove all the skin possible; pick out all that have the 
skins on ; repeat the operation till all the skins are off; the 
last few can be divested of their skins by taking them be- 
tween the forefinger and the thumb and pressing them. 
The almonds should now be dried (slow heat) for about two 
days, as it is not advisai)le to use them green. 

A quantity of these dried almonds should be kept on 
hand for general use. 

Pistachios and other similar nuts may be blanched and 
prepared in the same manner as almonds. 

2. To Split Afmonds.— When the almonds are prepared, 
insert the point of a knife at the end, when they will 
readily split in halves at their natural divisions. 

3. To Shred Almonds. — The almonds being skinned, cut 
them lengthwise in thin shreds, by dividing each almond 
in this way, into five or six long shreds; or cut them cross- 
wise, instead of lengthwise, thus rendering the shreds 
shorter. 

4. To Chop Almonds, — After freeing the almonds from 
their skins, chop them more or less finely with a large 
knife, according to the purpose for which they are re- 
quired. 

5. To Color Almonds,— After shredding or chopping the 
almonds, add any color required to be produced ; rub them 
together until every particle has become equally saturated 
with the color ; dry them in the screen. 

6. General Directions, — Almonds should be kept 
blanched and dried, ready for use at any moment. They 
should be pounded in a mortar when made into paste, and 
always with the addition of a small quantity of orange- 
itower or rose water, which pfe\'ents them from oiling. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



106 FBUITS AND FLAVORINGS. 

Where ground almonds or almond paste can be obtained, 
there is no necessity for pounding almonds for cakes. 

Peach kernels should be prepared and kept in the same 
manner as almonds. When mixed with sweet almonds, 
they are most excellent for nice cake and preferable to bit- 
ter almonds in point of flavor. 

The following list comprises the chief fruits used by the 
baker, a detailed description of each hardly being neces- 
sary in this work. The best qualities of fruits, however, 
both foreign and domestic should be always selected for 
culinary purposes : 
Apples, Groundnuts, Baisins, 

Brazil Nuts, Hazel-nuts, . (The Sultana are the best.) 

Citron, Huckleberries, Raspberries, 

Cocoanuts, Lemons, Strawberries, 

Currants, Oranges, Vanilla Beans, 

(The Zante are the beat.) Peanuts, Walnuts, etc., etc. 

Filberts, Pistachio Nuts. 

Currants should be nicely washed, picked, dried on a 
cloth and carefully exarained,that no pieces of grit or stone 
may be left ; they should then be laid on a dish before the 
fire to become thoroughly dry ; as, if added damp to tlie 
other ingredients, the cake will be linble to be heavy. Bais- 
ins should not be washed but wipe<l on a dry towel. Cur- 
rants or citron should not be rolled in flour ^ but dredged, or 
well sprinkled with sifted flour, having first made the fruit 
as dry as possible; that is, after washing and draining the 
currants, dry them on the stove, and while warm and dry, 
dredge them with sifted fiour just before adding them to 
the cake; the fruit should be the last thing added. 

In making raised cake, all fruit must be well rolled in 
flour left out for that purpose, and not be added till the cake 
is just ready to put into the oven. It must not then be 
beaten in, but spread over the top lightly, and pressed in a 
little way, else the ifruit will all sink to the bottom and be 
worthless. 

Lemon and citron peels, etc., are also used in their can- 
died or preserved forms. They are generally chopped up 
and mixed in with the other ingredients of cakes; or they 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FRUITS AND FLAVORINGS. 107 

may be used as follows: Remove the sugar from the inside 
of the candied peel, and cut into very thin strips. The 
flavor will be imparted more eflfectually by preparing it 
tbus, rather than by chopping it or putting in large pieces. 
Mixed peel is the best for cakes; i. 6., citron (green), orange 
(dark), and lemon (light colored). Chocolate and cocoanut 
may be used in their prepared forms. 

Fruit jellies should be beaten to a paste before being 
spread between the layers of cakes. 

FliAVORINaS. 

The chief flavorings used by the cake baker are, (1) 
spices, (2) aromatic seeds, (3) oils, essences, and liqueurs. 

SPICES. 

Those mostly in use are allspice ; cinnamon ; cloves ; gin- 
ger ; mace and nutmegs. They are almost invariably used 
in their ground form. In buying spices care should be 
taken to get them from a reputable dealer, as they are very 
often adulterated with foreign substances, most of which 
though perhaps harmless, debase the flavoring properties 
of the spices, and so necessitate the usipg of a larger quan- 
tity to produce the same effect as an equal amount of pure 
spices, such as is indicated in standard recipes. If 
spices are first mixed with the flour in making cake, the 
flavor will be greatly augmented ; much more than when 
mixed in with the other ingredients. 

AROMATIC SEEDS. 

Those chiefly used by the baker for flavoring purposes 
are, aniseed, carraway seed, coriander seed, and fennel 
seed. They are generally used unground, unless otherwise 
specifled in recipes. 

OlliS, ESSENCES AND LIQUEURS. 

1. Eaaential Oils, — Those chiefly used by the baker are 
oils, bitter almonds, carra way-seed, cloves, lemon, orange, 
peppermint, rose, and wintergreen. As these are often adul- 
terated, and the tests therefor very difficult, it is best to 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



108 FBUITS AND FliAVORINGS. 

always purchase them of some reliable dealer who makes 
a specialty of such goods, and who will guarantee their 
purity. 

2. Alcoholic Extracts and Etherial Oils. — The baker 
often has occasion to use these goods for flavors, such as, 
apple, banana, bitter almond, apricot, celery, chocolate, 
cinnamon, coffee, ginger, grape, lemon, musk, nectarine, 
orange, peach, pear, pine-apple, pistachio, plum, raspberry, 
rose, strawberry, vanilla, etc. 

The essential oils are better and more durable for flavor- 
ing than the extracts or etherial oils, when procurable, 
which is not always the case, there being for instance no 
real essential oils for such flavors as strawberry, rasp- 
berry, etc. 

3. Liqueurs, — The principal kinds used by the baker are, 
cedrat, curacoa, kirschenwasser, maraschino, noyeau, 
orange-flower water, rose water, rosolio, etc. 

GfiNEBAL NOTES. 

The flavoring of cakes is a delicate branch of the baker's 
art, requiring the exercise of his nicest faculties. To ad- 
just the flavor properly is a very important part of the 
operation of cake-making. A little too much flavor is often 
nauseating, whereas not enough is very unsatisfactory. 
The monetary value of cakes, etc., very frequently depends 
upon just such a point as this. By properly adjusting a 
nice flavor and using the same in some good cracker or 
cake mixture, quite a number of manufacturers have gained 
a large reputation for their specialties. Moreover many of 
them have made independent fortunes by means of so 
slight a device as this. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CHAPTEE VIII. 

ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 

PBEPABATION AND USE OP COLOBS. 

Icing or Frosting— Icing Sugar — Recipes for Preparing Icings- 
Almond Icing (1)— Almond Icing (2)— Almond Icing (3) — Al- 
mond Icing (4)— Biscuit and Cracker, Icing (1)— Biscuit and 
Cracker Icing (2)— Biscuit and Cracker Icing (3)— Biscuit and 
Cracker Icing (4) — ^Biscuit and Cracker Icing (5)— Cho- 
colate Icing (1)— Chocolate Icing (2) — Cocoanut Icing— 
CofiCee Icing — Glace Icing — Icing for Ornamentation » 
and for the Construction of Mounted Pieces, Flowers^ 
etc. — Liqueur Icing — Plain Icing for Cakes (1) — Plain 
Icing for Cakes (2)— Royal Icing — Transparent Icing(l) — 
Transparent Icing (2)— Full directions for the Use of the Same 
— Chocolate Transparent Icing — Coflfee Transparent Icing — 
Green Transparent Icing— Orange Trauspareiit Icing — Rose 
Transparent Icing— Violet Transparent Icing— White Trans- 
parent Icing — Yellow Transparent Icing —Transparent Icing 
Flavored with Bitter Almonds — With Fruits — With Orange 
Flowers — With Rose— White Icing — How to Ice and Ornament 
Cakes— When Wet — Jelly Ornaments — Piping — Wedding Cakes 
— Savoy Cakes— To Chocolate a Savoy C^e — To Chocolate Ra- 
tafias— To Glace Biscuit— Glazing — Mountain of Macaroon 
Paste— Kiss, Macaroon and Meringue Ornaments — Ornamental 
Pyramid— How to make Paper Cases, Square and Round — The 
Preparation and Uses of Colors — ^Vegetable Colors— Spinach 
Greeti — Yellow — Cochineal— Red — To Color Sugar Grains or 
Sand. 

One of the most attractive branches of the baker's pro- 
fession is the proper ornamentation of Cakes. Although 
this is not the place for any detailed instructions in an art 
that requires years of study, yet the simpler rules will be 
here inserted, together with recipes for the preparation of 
the few materials used. Among these latter, icing, or what 
is frequently called frosting, holds the most conspicuous 
place. The sugar used for icing purposes should be the very 
best loaf-sugar, well pounded and passed through a linen or 
silken sieve. The eggs to be used should be strictly good, 
and the whites extremely light. Icing sugar for ornamen- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



110 ICING AND OKNAMENTATION. 

tal purposes is merely the fiuest sifted loaf sugar, mixed or 
worked into a soft paste, with the whites of eggs and a 
little lemon juice, flavored and colored, or left plain ; and 
when made, it should be covered with a damp cloth until 
wanted for use, or a thin crust will form over it, rendering it 
difficult to work. We give below the methods and formu- 
lae for making the different kinds of icing most generally 
in use. 

AXiMOND ICING ( 1 ). 

Whites of 3 eggs. i Vb sweet almonds, blanched. 

f fi> icing sugar. 

Pound the almonds to a smooth paste, and work gradually 
into the icing ; flavor with lemon juice or rose water. Al- 
mond icing may be cheapened by using i ground rice ( not 
rice flour), and } sweet almonds, adding a few drops of oil 
of bitter almonds. 

AXiMOND ICING (2). 

1 oz bitter almonds, or a few 1 Hk sweet almonds. 

drops of the oil of bitter 1 lb icing sugar. 

almonds. 
Mix into a soft paste with the whites of eggs. 

ALMOND ICING (3). 

1 fb icing sugar. Whites of 4 eggs. 

1 fc sweet almonds. Rose water to flavor, 

ALMOND ICING (4). 

2} lbs ground sweet almonds. 2} lbs lump sugar. 

Make a syrnp and boil the sugar to a blow (240° Fahr.); 
stir in the ground almonds, and 2 tablespoons of orange 
flower water; put this on the top of the cake, making it 
smooth with the hand, and a dust of sugar flush to the 
edge. This operation must be done quickly, as the icing 
will very soon set and become unmanageable. 

BISCUIT AND OBACKEB ICING ( 1 ). 

1 !b icing sugar. 1 oz starch, flnely pow- 

Whites of 4 eggs. dered. 

Beat the eggs to a strong froth, and gradually sift in the 
sugar; add the starch and beat well until the sugar is 
smooth. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. Ill 

This icing may be colored with strawberry or currant 
juice, cochineal, etc. If put on the biscuit as soon as with- 
drawn from the oven, it will become firm and hard by the 
time they are cold. 

BISCUIT AND CRACKER ICING (2). 

Whites of 12 doz eggs, well 40fts **A" sugar. 

beaten. 1 teaspoon tartaric acid. 

Dissolve to the thickness of cream ; put on with a soft 
brush. 

BISCUIT AND CRACKER ICING (3). 

Put 8 ozs isinglass in 1 qt hot water, but not boiling; stir 
until dissolved ; skim and stiffen with white sugar ; add a 
couple of drops of blueing. 

BISCUIT AND CRACKER ICING (4). 

30 lbs white sugar. i gal water. 

Boil over a good fire for about one minute ; after it com- 
mences to boil, put in a package of corn starch. This will 
be sufficient to ice the biscuits made from a barrel of flour. 

BISCUIT AND CRACKER ICING (6). 

100 lbs sugar. 9 qts water. 

5 qs whites of eggs. 

Let the sugar and water come to a boil; have the whites 
well beaten and light ; add the sugar and the whites; mix 
and stir well ; use immediately. 

CHOCOIiATE ICING (1). 

stir into White or Royal Icing when ready for use, 
chocolate that has been melted over the fire; stir in a suflB- 
cient quantity to give the required color; at the same time 
moisten it with the whites of eggs. 

CHOCOLATE ICING (2). 

Scrape three fillets of chocolate; melt it in a copper 
sugar-boiler; have ready 2 lbs of whit-e sugar made into a 
«trong syrup, and boiled down to the blow (240® Fahr.); pour 
this over the chocolate; mix it quickly with a spoon, tak- 
ing care not to grain it. Dip the biscuits to be iced into 
ihis, and lay them on the back of a sieve to dry. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



112 ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 

CX)COANUT ICINa. 

Proceed as for Almond Icing, using cocoanut in place of 
almonds. 

COFFEE ICING. 

Make a strong decoction of coffee; mix it with fine icing 
sugar, as for glace icing. In using this icing, spread it over 
the biscuits. 

GLACE ICING. 

Mix in a jar some icing-sugar, with any light liqueur^ 
and a little water to the consistency of cream ; color lightly 
with cochineal. 

lOING FOR ORNAMENTATION. 

In piping, and for the construction of mounted pieces, 
flowers, etc. 

Into around bottomed basin put one or two whites of 
eggs, and fill them in with as much fine, white, dry, sugar- 
dust as they will absorb, to produce a stifl" paste. Add a 
few drops of acetic acid, a pinch of cream of tartar, and a 
spoonful of starch powder, or a little prepared gum traga- 
canth, these ingredients giving a body and elasticity to the 
icing and causing it to dry quickly. Work with a wooden 
spatula until of proper consistency ; and when the spatula 
is withdrawn, if the icing is perfect, the point left behind 
will stand erect. 

LIQUEUR ICING. 

Mix Maraschino, noyeau, curacoa, rum, or any other 
liqueur with icing-sugar, to the consistency of a cream. 

PLAIN ICING FOR CAKES ( 1 ). 

Whites of 3 eggs. 1 ft) white sugar. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. A little lemon juice. 

Beat the sugar and eggs together to a high froth, sifting 
the whole mixture through a fine sieve, little by little. It 
should be kept under a damp cloth until required for use. 
This icing may be flavored with vanilla, rose, lemon, etc., 
and colored with any vegetable color desired. If the icing 
has been properly mixed, it will occupy at least double the 
bulk of the ingredients from which it has been made. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 113 

PliAIN ICING FOR CAKES (2). 

4 lbs powdered sugar. 1 ft whites of eggs. 

1 pt water. 

Boil sugar and water; beat the whites well and put into 
the sugar and water, while boiling; stir and skim; then 
stir it until blood warm, when it is ready for use ; put it on 
with a brush. 

ROYAL ICING. 

Put the whites of 3 eggs into a round-bottomed basin; add 
sufficient icing sugar to form it into a rather stiff batter; 
work it well with a new wooden spoon, adding about 2 
teaspoons of lemon juice, until it is tirm enough for the 
spoon to stand upright in it This mixture should be 
beat until light and stiff, and not made into a pudding, and 
thus rendered heavy by a superabundance of sugar. By 
using various tints and flavors, Boyal Icing may be made 
of any variety desired; for green^ color with extract of 
spinach ; for orange^ a decoction of saffron ; for rose-pink^ 
diluted carmine, or a few drops of cochineal, flavoring with 
oil of roses ; for violet ^ color with equal parts of ultramarine 
blue and carmine, diluted with a few drops of water, and 
flavor with syrup of violets. 

TRANSPARENT ICING (1.) 

\% pulv white sugar. J pt water. 

Boil to the consistency of mucilage; rub the sugar with 
a wooden spatula against the sides of the pan until it 
assumes a white, milky appearance; stir in 2 tablespoons 
extract vanilla ; mix well together ; pour while hot over 
the top of the cake, so as to completely cover it. 

TRANSPARENT ICING (2.) 

Clarify 1 lb of the finest sugar in a copper pan, and boil 
it to the blow (240° Fahr.) ; place the bottom of the pan in 
cold water contained in a deep saucepan to cool, until the 
sugar begins to set at the sides and bottom of the pan. 
Have previously ready a gill of clarified syrup, half a 
lemon ( from which the pips have been removed,) two sil- 
ver forks, and a square baking sheet, lined with paper ; add 
ir 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



114 ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 

to the sugar enough liqueur, either of curacoa, noyeau, 
cedrati, maraschino, or kirschenwasser, to flavor the ioing, 
and to bring it to its proper consistency for workiog. Take 
a silver tablespoon ; stir the sugar well together, and with 
the back part of the bowl of the spoon, rub and work the 
sugar up against the sides of the pan, to give the sugar an 
opalized appearance. With a fork, lift one of the cakes in- 
tended to be iced ; dip it in the sugar ; or else, while hold- 
ing it upon the fork, use a spoon to pour some of the syrup 
merely over the surface, and with the other fork lift off the 
cake upon the paper covering the baking sheet. Proceed 
to ice over all the other cakes; and when all are completed, 
dry them with a slow heat, which will take about ten min- 
utes. When several sorts of cakes are to be iced, it is better 
to boil 2 lt>s of sugar at once, and afterwards to pour it out 
in a dish or plate. As wanted for use, break off the quan- 
tity required, and when made hot in the sugar boiler, 
dilute it to the desired consistency with clarified syrup and 
the liqueur. 

CHOCOIiATB TRANSPARENT ICING. 

Melt 3 ozs fine chocolate with a small quantity of water 
(stirring constantly) until it becomes soft; dilute this with 
i gill syrup, aud work until perfectly smooth ; add to the 
boiled sugar, as above. 

COPPEB TRANSPARENT ICING. 

Boil the sugar, and dilute it with a small coflbe-cap of 
very strong made, bright coffee. 

GREEN TRANSPARENT ICING. 

Color with extract of spinach, and flavor with any white 
liqueur, although cedrati perhaps is the most appropriate 
for this color. 

ORANGE TRANSPARENT ICING. 

Color with a decoction of saffron ; or else with sufficient 
orange-zest to give the required tinge ; flavor with curaooa. 

ROSE TRANSPARENT ICING. 

Color with diluted carmine, or a few drops of cochineal ; 
fla;'or with oil cf roses, or with rosolio liqueur. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 115 

VIOLET TRANSPARENT ICING. 

Color with equal parts of ultramarine blue and carmine 
diluted witli a few drops of hot water; flavor with syrup 
of violets. 

WHITE TRANSPARENT ICING. 

Boll the sugar as directed ; keep it white ; flavor with 
curacoa, noyeau, or kirschenwasser. 

YELLOW TRANSPARENT ICING. 

Boil the sugar ; color with orange-sugar, or diluted gam- 
boge ; flavor with curacoa or noyeau. 

TRANSPARENT ICING, FLAVORED WITH BITTER ALMONDS. 

Boil the sugar ; keep it white, and flavor with a few drops 
of oil of bitter almotids. 

TRANSPARENT ICING, FLAVORED WITH FRUITS 

When the icing is intended to be flavored with any kind 
of fruit, such as currants, cherries, raspberries, strawber- 
ries, etc.; — extnict the juice cold, without boiling, by press- 
ing it out with a spoon through a hair sieve; a gill of fruit 
juice will suffice to flavor a pound of sugar. It sometimes 
happens that the sugar becomes unmanageable by ceasing 
to be liquifled, and by becoming cold or otherwise, because 
it may have been too strong in the flrst instance; in such 
a case, add a little syrup, or water, or liqueur; warm it, 
and work again. 

TRANSPARENT ICING, FLAVORED WITH ORANGE-FLOWERS. 

Boil the sugar; keep it white, and let it be diluted with 
a wine-glassful of double orange-flower water. 

TRANSPARENT ICING, FLAVORED WITH ROSE. 

Boil the sugar; color with carmine, and flavor with a 
few drops of oil of roses ; or else dilute it with rose-water. 

WHITE ICING. 

Whites of 4 eggs. J teaspoon ful acetic acid ; or 

1| lbs icing sugar. the juice of half a lemon. 

J oz. extract of rose. 
Place the whites with the sugar in a bowl with the acid 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



116 ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 

and extract ; beat with a wooden spoon until, letting some 
run from the spoon, it maintains a thread-like appearance 
several minjates ; it is then ready to use. 

HOW TO ICE AND ORNAMENT A CAEB. 

(1) Dredge that side of the cake which rested on the tin 
while baking with sifted flour, to remove whatever grease 
may be there ; wipe off the flour carefully ; put a quantity of 
icing in the centre, and with a broad-bladed knife spread it 
equally on the top and over the other side of the cake, dip- 
ping the knife occasionally in cold water ; put the cake in a 
warm oven that the icing may harden, but do not allow it 
to remain long enough to discolor it When practical, 
however, it is better to dry icing in the open air. All iced 
cakes should be kept in a very dry place. 

If the cake is to be otherwise ornamented, trail icing 
upon it, or decorate it with sugar plums, etc., before hard- 
ening it. 

(2) If it is required to ornament a cake while wet, this can 
be done by sticking sugar or plaster on it, or candied peel, 
or angelica; or drop on colored sugars, or nonpariels, etc., 
according to fancy ; or when the cake is dry, ornament it 
with gum paste, piping ; or finally the cake may be painted. 
These matters must be left entirely to the genius and fency 
of the orn am enter. 

(3) Jelly Ornaments, Small cakes may be ornamented by 
placing drops of jelly on their tops, and surrounding the 
jelly with a rim of icing. 

(4) Piping, First prepare some cornets, or pointed bags, 
made of letter or prepared paper; the cornets may be fas^ 
tened by pasting the paper together with mucilage, and 
then dried in order to make them secure. When about to 
use the cornet, cut off so much of the pointed end as will 
give an opening of a sufficient diameter to admit of the 
pointed end of an ordinary ornamenting tube to project 
about J inch through the opening:— Partly fill the cornet 
with icing; twist and fold down the upper ends of the 
paper, so as to enclose the icing and prevent it from oozing 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 117 

out as you press upon it in order to force it out at the point. 
It requires some knowledge of designs, good taste and 
practice, to produce a variety of neat or eleganl designs of 
ornamentations. In place of paper cornets, a brass syringe 
is frequently used for this purpose. 

(5) To Ornament a Wedding Cake, When the cake is cold, 
trim it neatly round the sides and top with a sharp knife 
until nice and even; make an Almond icing for the top of 
the cake; when this is set, spread the cake over thinly 
with Royal icing; when set, give it a second coat of icing, 
spreading it over with a palette knife, and smoothing it off 
even at the top and sides, using a swivel stand for the pur- 
pose. In ornamenting a wedding cake, the side is some- 
times marked with a delicate pink icing, but not always. 
Make a centre-piece somewhat in the shape of a drum, 
with cartridge paper and icing; make a smaller one 
in the same style to stand on top of the first (they 
should each be about 3 inches high); mask them with 
icing and stick together one above the other, placing a gum 
paste vase containing orange blossoms on the top. Gum 
paste medallions, containing the initials, etc., may be stuck 
around the cake or drums. As to the ornamenting of the 
foundation, it depends entirely on the good taste and prac- 
tice of the artist in the use of the cornet; a cake may be 
almost entirely covered with bought ornaments (of which 
there is an endless variety), such as doves, gum paste 
flowers on brass springs ; but, excepting for the vase and 
medallions, etc., the less gum paste used the better. It is 
never considered so artistic^ With the exception of a very 
delicate pink (if approved) for groundwork only, colors 
should be particularly avoided for a wedding cake. 

Lace papers may also be used to set off cakes to advan- 
tage. 

(6) To ornament a Savoy Cake, Mask the cake over with 
a Glace icing made in the following way : Mix in a jar some 
icing sugar, with any light liqueur, and a little water to 
the consistency of cream; color lightly with cochineal; 
then pipe the cake In an artistic manner with the cornet, 
using Koyal icing. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



118 ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 

(7) To Chocolate a Savoy Cake. Prepare Chocolate icing ; 
mask the cake in this, and ornament in an artistic manner 
with piping in Royal icing. 

(8) To Chocolate Eataflaa. Make some large ratafias, the 
size of macaroons; spread the flat part of each with a little 
melted chocolate; pipe some designs in Koyal icing with a 
cornet on each biscuit. 

(9) To Olace Biscuits with Liqueur Icing, Mix maraschi- 
no, noyeau, curacoa, rum, or any other liqueur with icing 
sugar, as for ornamented savoy cake ; cut into convenient 
pieces ; mask them over and decorate with piping. 

(10) Olazingj is generally done with a brush or with 
feathers; a beat egg, or syrup, or jelly, or sugar and eggs, 
corn -starch, etc., being used. It is done by dipping the 
brush into the egg or jelly, and by spreading it on the cake, 
etc., before baking or serving, as directed. It is also done by 
sifting powdered sugar on cakes, which are then put back 
into the oven for a short time to melt the sugar. 

(11) Mountain of Macaroon .Paste. For this pretty orna- 
ment, make a stiff macaroon paste, using only the whites 
of eggs; cut out as many rings of desired size as may be 
required ; bake a light brown ; when done, place one on top 
of the other to form a pyramid ; ornament with gum paste 
leaves and flowers. This should be formed around a pyra- 
mid mould. 

(12) Kisses y Macaroons^ Meringues^ etc., are frequently 
arranged in many different fancy forms, and make very 
attractive and showy pieces. 

(13) An Ornamental Pyramid. Boil loaf sugar as for 
candy. Of stiff white paper (or paste-board), make the 
shape of a pyramid, and cover well over with the boiled 
sugar, having fifst well buttered the paper. Set it upon a 
table, and beginning at the bottom, stick upon the same 
with the sugar, macaroons, kisses, or other fancy cakes ; 
lay a row of each around alternately, until th<^ whole is 
covered. Put a tasteful little ornament on top to finish it» 
as a little flag if for a patriotic feast, or a little Cupid if for 
a wedding; if for an evening supper, a bit of wax candle 
burning from the centre looks very pretty. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 119 

(14) To Make Paper Cases. Out square pieces of letter paper 
measuring 3 inches on all four sides ; double these in two 
equal folds, and turn down each half in three equal reverse 
folds ; then turn up the upper leaves, turn back the corners 
at both ends of the paper, equally and correctly ; this will 
bring the ends to form a point ; fold this back under the 
case as it were; press it down hard with the thumb nail, 
then open the square or oblong case, pinch the corners arid 
it will stand erect. The round paper cases are made with 
circular pieces, cut to about the Fame dimensions as the for- 
mer, which, after being plaited all round with the edge of a 
knife, to the depth of 1} inches, are pushed into a round 
wooden mould, and forced into it with a wooden 
w^edge made to fit tightly ; the edge of the paper must be 
turned under tightly all round with the back part of the 
blade* of the knife. The case will then have received its 
intended form. 

THE PEEPARATION AND USE OF COLORS. 

Where articles are intended to be eaten, nothing but 
vegetable GoXovB should be used. These are now extensively 
sold by the leading houses in baker's supplies. The follow- 
ing recipes, however, may be of service to the ornatnentul 
baker, and will answer for' most purposes : 

Spinach Green is perfectly liarniless. It is prepared by 
thoroughly washing, say half a sieve of spinach ; drain tho 
water from it and pound it immediately to a pulp in a mor- 
tar; put this on the back of a sieve and press all the juice 
out, which put into a copper sugar-boiler, with a pinch of 
salt; stir it on the fire with a new wooden spoon until it 
curdles; throw it on the back of a hair sieve to drain oflfall 
the superfluous moisture; then press the green residue or 
extract through a sieve ; mix it with half the quantity of 
pounded sugar an».l a little spirits of wine; put by in a bot- 
tle for use. Another green may be prepared with a mix- 
ture of saffron or gamboge and prepared indigo ; the lighter 
the green, the more yellow must be used. This latter 
should be used only for strictly ornamental purposes, and 
not to color sugar or anything to be eaten. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



120 ICING AND ORNAMENTATION. 

Yellow. Make a strong infusion of saflVon in warm 
water, and use it for coloring anything that is eatable. The 
English hay-saffron is considered the best. Gum paste and 
other articles which are not intended to be eaten may be 
colored with gamboge, dissolved in warm water. 

Cochineal Red. Bruize 1 oz cochineal in a mortar until 
very fine ; put it into a copper sugar-boiler ; add J oz roacii 
alum pounded fine, and J oz salts of wormwood ; pour over 
this 1 pt filtered water; bring this to a boil ; simmer from 1 
to 2 minutes; remove from the fire and stir in 1 oz cream of 
tartar with a clean wooden spoon ; filter it through a small 
thick fiamiel bag into a round-bottomed basin. Next boil 
\% sugar to a slight caramel; pour the cochineal over this^ 
leaving out the sediment; mix and give it a boil for a min- 
ute; add a little spirits of wine and bottle off for use. This, 
as well as all other colors, should be prepared on a bfight, 
sunny day. Good cochineal should be heavy, dry, of a sil- 
very, shining color, without odor, and when bruized, of a 
dark red color. 

To Color Sugar Grains^ or Sand, Take 1 lb white pulver- 
ized sugar, and sift it in a lawn sieve to take out the finer 
portions. Put the coarser grains in a preserving pan, and 
gently warm it over the fire, stirring continually with the 
hand. Pour in a sufficient quantity of vegetable liquid 
color to give it the desired tint, and continue to work it 
about the pan till dry. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CHAPTEE IX. 

THE IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY FOR 
BAKING. 

General Review— Manufacturers Catalogues— Baba Moulds— Bak- 
ing-sheets and Holders— Biscuit Bags— Biscuit Breaks — Biscuit 
Crimping Boards — Biscuit and Cracker Cutters— Biscuit Dock- 
ers — ^Biscuit Machines— Biscuit Stamps — Bread Pans— Bread 
Troughs — Brushes — Cake Cutters — Cake Mixers - Cake Moulds 
— ^Cake Pans — Comets — Ci»cker Machines— Cracker Pans — 
Cracker Peels— Cracker Breaks— Cracker Cutters and Prints — 
Cracker Dockers— Crumpet Tins— Dough Mixers— Egg Beaters 
and Whisks — Flour Sieves — Gem Pans— Girdles — Jumble Ma- 
chines — Kiss Machines — Kneading Machines — Lady Finger 
Bags and Tubes — Meringue Boards — Moulds — Mixers and 
Kneaders— Mechanical Kneaders— Advantages of Mixing and 
Kneading Dough by Machinery— Cleanliness— Saving of Time 
and Powt-r —Economy — Superiority of Machine Made Dou^h — 
Equal Consistency— Additional Yield of Bread— Ovens— Tile — 
Rotary — Revolving — Reel — Vienna — Patent and Portable — 
Oven Lamps— Ornamenting Machines and Tubes — Ornt^ment- 
ing Syringes — Ornamenting Bags — Peels— Pyrometers — Queen 
Heart's Tins — Roll Tins — Rusk Frames — Savoy Moulds — 
Scuffles — Sieves — Soft Cake and Jumble Machines — Sponge 
Biscuit Frames— Springerele Moulds — Swabs — Syringe Forcers 
— ^Vandyke Tins — Vandyke Filbert Cutters — Wafer Irons — 
Waffle Irons— Wafer-Macaroon Tins — Walnut Cracker Prints or 
Moulds— Wedding Cake Hoops— Yorkshire Cake Tins. 

In the few following pages, devoted to a notice of the prin, 
cipal implements and machinery used in the bakery, it is no t 
our intention to give anything but a very general review of 
the most prominent of these. Any detailed or exhaustive 
description of the various labor-saving appliances which 
are daily being brought to the notice of the trade or the 
public, would take up a volume of itself. Besides, all this 
information can be obtained better from consulting the 
catalogues of manufacturers in these special lines ; nor could 
we describe their uses and merits without the aid of dia- 
grams and laborious explanations. Moreover, purchasers 
of naachinery can better understand the workings of special 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



122 BA.KING MACHINERY. 

machines by practical operations on the apparatus they 
buy. It will, therefore, be sufficient if in this book we 
merely call attention to the more prominent implements 
and machinery used in the manu^cture of bread, cakes 
and crackers. 

Baha Moulds; same as Savoy moulds, only larger; a 
bold style of ornament should be preferred. 

Baking Sheets. These are of various k i n ds, the pri n eipal 
being: first, a plain square sheet of iron, with a small piece 
cut out near the front edge, to use as a handle when cool ; 
second, a square sheet of iron, turned up at the sides; 
third, the same shape as the second, but composed of cop- 
per tinned on the inside ; these copper sheets are nmde with 
the edges from i to 2 inches or more in height. 

Baking-sheet Holders, are pieces of thick carpet or cloth, 
about J ft square; they are held one in each hand, to lift 
hot baking sheets with. 

Biscuit Bag, This bag is formed with either a clean 
bullock^s bladder, or a sort of cloth or canvass used for the 
purpose; the bag terminates in a tin funnel, large, mid- 
dling, or small ; the mixture is put into the bag mid /breed 
through the funnel. Biscuit bags are also made of rubber. 

Biscuit Break, See Cracker Break. 

Biscuit Crimping Board, a board corrugated in somewhat 
the same manner as a butter pat. 

Biscuit and Cracker Cutters, These are genwally made 
of metal, and are of all shapes and styles imaginable; some 
of them stamping designs, equal to the finest wood en* 
graving. 

Biscuit Docker, A round piece of wood with a flat bot- 
tom, which is armed with metal spikes to prick the biscuits 
when stamped upon them ; its use is to prevent air luibbles 
in the biscuit 

Biscuit Machines, See Cracker Machines. 

Biscuit Stamps, See Biscuit Cutters. 

Bread Pans, commonly made of an oblong square shape, 
smaller at the bottom than at the top, and of all sizes. 
There are many varieties of bread pans, such as graham, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BAKING MACHCNERY. 123 

milk, octagon, French, Boston brown bread, etc. ; some 
with covers and some without. 

Bread Troughs are best made of well seasoned wood, and 
should be kept scrupulously clean. 

Brushes, The principal kinds used by the baker are the 
broad water or wash brush, for moistening the tops of* 
cakes ; the stiff sugar brush ; and the grease brush. 

Cake Cutters. There are many varieties of these, both 
plain and fancy, such as sugar, leaf, heart, etc., etc. 

Cake Mixers. See Mixers. 

Cake Moulds, See Moulds. 

Cake Pans; the principal varieties are, deep. Duchess, 
fancy, fruit, jelly, lady, molasses, plain, pyramid, round, 
scollopped, sponge, square, turk-head, and wine. 

Cornet. A piece of stout foolscap paper, formed into a 
tapering cone with a ver^ small hole at the end, which (if 
required) can be cut larger with a pair of sharp scissors ; a 
pin passed through this cone fastens its securely together; 
about a good teaspoon ful of Icing is dropped in the 
paper bag, and the top is then closed ; hold it in the right 
hand, and press the top part with the thumb, and in this 
manner propel the icing through the small hole on to what- 
ever is to be decorated; this must be done with judg- 
ment and in an artistic manner. There are ornamental tin 
funnels of various patterns for piping; when using these^ 
make the paper cornets with a hole nearly a quarter of an 
inch in width, and drop the tin design funnel into it, and 
then proceed as above. 

Cracker Machines. These machines are now so perfected 
that the dough after passing through the break is placed on 
the machine, dusted, cut, stamped, docked and panned, 
and in some cases delivered into the oven in a single revo- 
lution of the dough along a moving apron. 

Cracker Pans. The best are now made of iron wire. 

Cracker Peels. See Peels. 

Cracker Break. (1) a kind of wooden lever, fastened at 
one end by a sort of connecting hook to t le table; by its 
use a pow^erful pressure can be brought upon stiff biscuit 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



124 BAKING MACHINERY. 

paste. (2) Crackers are now made by means of powerful 
breaks, the pressure being applied by iron cylinders, some- 
thing similar to the action of a wringing machine. 

Cracker Cutters and Prints, See Biscuit Cutters. 

Cracker Dockers. See Biscuit Dockers. 
' Crumpet Tina. Tin hoops about f inch in height and 
the usual diameter of a crumpet. 

Dough Mixers. Bee Mixers. 

Egg Beaters or Whips. These are made of all sizes so 
that any number of eggs can be beat in a few minutes. 

Flour Sieves. See Sieves. 

Qem Fans^ are made of cast iron, ^ing a series of hol- 
low half cylinders connected together. 

Girdle; sort of round iron baking sheet, with an iron 
handle over the top from side to side ; a hook is attached to 
the handle by which it is sometimes suspended. 

Jumble Machines. See Syringe Forcer; also Soft Cake 
and Jumble Machines. 

Kiss Machine, See Biscuit Bag. 

Kneading Machine. See Mixers. 

Lady-flager Bag and Tubes. See Biscuit Bag. 

Meringue Boards. Boards made of well seasoi^ed hard 
wood, of conveuient size, with rounded corners, and about 
1} inches thick. 

Moulds are made of every conceivable shape and pattern. 
They should never be washed out, but wiped with a soft 
piece of cloth ; they should be greased either with lard, or 
with butter freed from salt. To butter moulds for fancy 
sponge cakes, in order to insure a good impression, also a 
good clear face, first warm the mould, and having creamed 
the butter, turn it up so that the melted butter may find its 
way into all the crevices and parts of the mould. If it is a 
new or difficult mould, repeat the operation twice. When 
done, the mould may be dusted out well with icing, and 
then dried with sifted flour, when it is ready for use. 

MIXERS AND KNEADERS. 

Mechanical Kneaders. These are of many different 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BAKING MACHINERY. 12> 

shapes and patterns. The advantages of making bread by 
machinery are well understood by those who use the 
kneaders, but we venture to enumerate a few of the most 
important ones, for the consideration of those who still 
adhere to the old system. 

1. Cleanliness, This will be seen at a glance, as the use 
of the machine prevents all (lont^t of the dough with the 
hands and arms in the process of kneading. In the old 
process the workmen may wash their hands and clean their 
nails before kneading and handling the dough, but as every 
one knows it is hard to knead dough thoroughly, and that 
it usually starts the perspiration which is not clean, at least 
in bread. By using mechanical kneaders the dough can 
be mixed, thoroughly kneaded, and placed in the baking 
pans (with knife or spoon) without touching it with the 
hands. While on this point we may observe that accord- 
ing to a German baker the dough kneaded by machinery 
requires a greater quantity of yeast to make it rise than if" 
kneaded by hand. This he attributes to the perspiration 
and warmth that comes from the arms of the men while 
kneading, and he proposes that the bottom of the trough 
should be kept heated in warm water, which could easily 
be done. Greater cleanliness and more healthy work for 
the men would then be the result. 

2. Saving of Time and Power, Kneading by machinery 
is completed in much less time than it could possibly be by 
hand, and the work is of a less fatiguing nature. 

3. Economy, A greater quantity of bread is said to be 
produced from the same amount of flour. This is not 
always credited by those who have never proved it. On 
commencing to use the machine, it is always found that a 
sack of flour requires more water to make the dough as 
" slack " as under the old system ; and this of course adds 
to the weight and bulk, and accounts for the extra yield. 

Ornamenting Machines and Tubes, These are generally 
of brass, and in the shape of syringes, with removable fun- 
nel tubes of different shapes and patterns. 

Ornamenting Syringes, See Ornamenting Machines. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



126 BAKING MACHINERY. 

Ornamenting Bags, See Biscuit Bags. 

Ouena, The principle ovens used in the balsery, are (1) 
the old fashioned tile ovens, which come down to us from 
ancient days, although now most generally provided with 
dampers and other modern attachments; (2) mechanical 
ovens, such as the rotary, the reel and the revolving ; (3) 
the Vienna oven, described in theFormulse and Memoran- 
da, (Part 2,) under the head of* Vienna Bread (2) ; (4) vari- 
ous portable and patented ovens too numerous even to 
mention. 

Oven Lamps, generally made to bum oil ; there are sev- 
eral styles in use. 

Peels, long wooden shovels for lifting bread, cakes and 
crackers out of the oven. 

Pyrometers, iron tubes with a graduated scale to ascer- 
tain the temperature of the oven. 

Queen^s Heart Tins, made in the shape of hearts, about 
3-4 inch high. 

Boll Tins, same as wafer-macaroon tins, only reversed, 
the rolls being baked in them. There are other tins in the 
form of cups on a baking sheet. 

Biisk Frames, tin frames about f inch across, 3 inches in 
height, and about a foot long. 

Savoy Moulds. Ornamental, round copper moulds, sel- 
dom less than 8 inches high, and about 5 inches across. 

Scuffle, a mop, but of the roughest and most straggling 
sort. 

Sieves, These are made for various purposes of wire, 
hair, silk and lawn. There is a patent flour sieve which 
does its work so thoroughly and expeditiously, that no 
baker who can procure one is excusable for not sifting his 
flour. 

Soft Cake and Jumble Machines, These machines cut 
and drop, or lay out jumbles, macaroons, sponge-drops, and 
all species of soft cakes, with perfect precision. 

Sponge Biscuit Frames, sort of small tin oblong moulds, 
narrower at the bottom than at the top ; they are connected 
together, half a dozen or more in a row. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BAKING MACHINERY. 127 

Sprlnfferele Moulds, flat metal moulds for stamping fancy 
biscuits. 
Bwab^ a mop to clean out tile ovens. 
Syringe Forcer, 2^ tin tube about 1 foot long and 2 or 3 
inches in diameter. It has a ledge round the interior of 
the bottom edge; on this ledge a loose tin, the size of the 
funnel is placed; this tin has a star stamped out in the 
■centre. The paste is put in this tube, and forced out 
through the star with a sort of wooden plug or piston, 
which fits the tube; the paste will come out in the shape o^ 
a star corrugated rope, which being cut into lengths, 
according to recipe, forms the biscuits. The pattern tins are 
removable, and a variety of star or other pattern biscuits 
may thus be obtained. 

Vandyke Tina, in the form of Vandykes, al>out half a 
dozen rows in each tin ; about three or four biscuits are 
forced into each row with the biscuit bag. The shape of 
the biscuits when baked, will resemble divisions of oranges. 

Vandyke Filbert Cutter, This is a tin cutter nearly 
^ (nine) inches in length, and in Vandykes about an inch 
or a little less in width. 

Wafer Irons, These are somewhat in the :ihape of a 
pair of t6ng8, with a couple of engraved iron plates at the 
^nd. They have also a very simple apparatus at the handles 
to fix them firmly together, and immediately loosen them 
when required. 

Waffle Irons, small rectangular shaped irons for baking 
waffles. 

Wafer Macaroon Tins, tin arches about a foot long, on 
Avhich wafer macaroons about 4 inches in length can be 
laid across to be baked. 

Walnut Cracker Print or Mould, a wooden block or 
board containing two cut impressions— the first, a represen- 
tation of a walnut shell, and the second a half of the ker- 
nel. The paste is pressed into both impressions, cut level 
with the wood, and got out, baked and completed according 
to receipt. When finished, a walnut half shelled and re- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



128 



BAKINa MACHINERY. 



vealing half of the kernel Is the result of the imitation in 
biscuit paste. 

Wedding Cake Hoops, Bound hoops for baking wedding 
cakes. Wedding cakes, as well as others, when very large, 
may be baked in quarters and afterwards fitted nicely 
together. 

Yorkshire Cake Tins. Tin hoops about Vt inches in 
height and 4} inches in diameter. 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE COMPLETE 

BREAD, mi AND CRACKER 

BAKER. 



T'WO I5^I2;TS. 



PART IT. 

Formula and Memoranda. 

STANDARD RECIPES. 



CHICAGO: 

J. Thowson Gill, Uahaoeb Compxctionib Ain> Baskb Publishiho Oo. 

1881. 



.Digitized byCjOO^lC 



Entered According to Ast of Cdngrevr, in the ye«r 1881, by the 

CONFECTIONER AND BAEEB PTmUSHINO CO., 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 



ALL RIOHTS BESEBYED. 



PBESS OF RTEnEOTTPED BY 

8. I. BRADBURY & SONS, Chicago Stereotype Wobzs. 

78 Fifth Ave.. Chicago. Chicago, ni. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



J 



NOTES AND DIEECTIONS. 



1. Becipes for the manufacture of nearly every species 
of Bread, Cakes and Crackers (exclusive of Pastry Cakes 
and Tarts) are to be found below, arranged alphabetically 
under one or more of their several names: — if therefore 
not found under one heading, look for it under another. 

2. The following recipes are practical; that is, besides 
being first-class in every respect, they are inexpensive 
enough to be articles of daily manufacture and use. They 
are in fact as near btandakd as possible. 

3. The numbers after recipes, where there ar6 two or 
more of a kind, do not necessarily refer to quality^ but are 
frequently only different ways of making the same article. 

4. The proportions given are those most likely be correct 
and convenient for general use, and where the best mate- 
rials are employed. Owing, however, to differences in the 
quality of flour, state of the yeast, size of eggs, temperature 
of the weather, impurity of chemicals, kinds of machinery 
employed, and many other causes, no absolutely correct 
proportions can be given which will answer every and all 
cases. Great care must, therefore, be exercised at every 
stage of preparation, for if an error occurs it can, in most 
cases, be but poorly remedied. 

5. The proportions being expressed in the majority of 
cases in even numbers (as sixteen, for instance, or some 
multiple thereof) renders it easy for the baker to increase or 
the housekeeper to decrease the quantities, when so desired. 
See special notes in re;iard to increasing proportions, Part I, 
Chapter 7, under Chemicals. 

6. The general rules for mixing and baking, as weU as 
all other needful instructions, are given in full under special 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



NOTES AND DIRECTIONS. 



chapters in Part I; where deviations, etc., occur, they are 
noted under each recipe. Where two or more recipes are 
given for making the same article, these special memoranda 
are frequently noted only under one. 

7. The baking powder recommended is composed of two 
parts cream of tartar to one part bi-carbonate soda. Where 
water-icing is mentioned, it is synonomous with icing. 
Unless otherwise specified white sugar, granulated or pow- 
dered, is intended by the term sugar. Spices are to be used 
in the ground or powdered state. Patent yeast is generally 
employed, unless otherwise stated. Use as few chemicals 
as possible to accomplish the object in view. If Angelica 
stems or leaves are not obtainable, use some appropriate 
substitute. For further explanations see Part I^ under 
special chapters, 

8. Where Crackers and Soft Cakes are to be made by 
machinery, care must be taken to have the dough adapted 
to the machine to be used. It must also be regulated ac- 
cording to the quality of the flour employed, etc. Some ex- 
perienced bakers vary the proportions of mii^tures slightly 
every month of the year, according to the temperature. 
As a general rule cracker mixtures are improved by stand- 
ing a few hours before cutting and baking. 

9. The experienced .baker can often vary many of t^e 
following recipes, as to flavors, ornaments, shapes, etc., and 
produce thereby pleasing results, with considerable profit 
to himself. A small matter like this has been the founda- 
tion of many a large fortune in the bakery trade. 

10. No slovenly work will ever produce good results. 
To the want Kjf cleanliness, good materials, and proper 
care, a great proportion of the failures to niake good bread, 
cake<t and crackers are attributable. Have every utensil 
scrupulously clean, and watch carefully every process of 
the operations of mixing, kneading and baking. If any 
matter in the recipes is not perfectly understood, refer fo 
Part I, under the chapters treating of such special case. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



COMPLETE BREAD, CAKE AND 
CRACKER BAKER. 



FCDTlJS/LTJJa.ZB A.J^ID X^£Xb£OXl..A.Xa'13jflL. 



ABC CRACKERS. 

( See Alphabet Crackers.) 

ALBANY CAKE. 

2 lbs flour. 1 gill brandy. 

1 lb butter. 1 piut W. Ind. molasses. . 

1 lb sugar. i pint cream. 

i doz eggs. Pinch of ammonia. 

1 gill yeast. 2 lb raisins. 

Cinnamon and nutmeg to flavor. 
Let stand about an hour to rise; bake in deep cake pan. 

ABERNETHY BISCUIT, (1.) 
16 lbs flour. 1 J to 2 oz carraway seed. 

2 lbs butter. 4 oz ammonia. 
2^ lbs sugar. 2 oz salt. 

Mix very stiff" with milk and water, (half and half); let 
stand from two to four hours; roll out} inch thick; cut 
with Abernethy biscuit cutter. 

ABERNETHY BISCUIT, (2.) 
16 lbs flour. 2ozsalt 

ii gills stock yeast. 1 J to 2 oz carraway seed. 

2 lbs lard or butter. 1 oz soda. 

,2J lbs sugar. 

Set a sponge over night; make a stifi" dough with milk or 
water; let stand from two to four hours ; proceed as for 
Abernethy Biscuit, (1.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



6 FORMUL-E AND MEMOBANDA. 

ADELAIDE CAKE. 

1 ft) flour. } ft) dried cherries. 

i ft) butter. J piut cream. 

f ft) sugar. A pinch of soda. 

1 doz eggs. Extract of vanilla, q. s. 

Make a rather firm batter; bake in deep paper-lined cake 
pan. 

AERATED BREAD. 
Cold water, charged with carbonic acid; Flour; Salt. 

First prepare the water, which is to be used in forming 
the dough, by placing it in a strong vessel, capable of bear- 
ing a high pressure, and force carbonic acid into it to the 
extent of say ten or twelve atmospheres, (about 160 to 180 
pounds per square inch); this the water absorbs without 
any appreciable increase in its bulk. The water so pre- 
pared will of course retain the carbonic acid in solution so 
long as it is retained in a close vessel under the same 
pressure. 

Place the flour and scUt of which the dough is to be formed, 
also in a close vessel capable of bearing a high pressure. 
Within this vessel, which should be of a spheroidal form, 
is constructed a kneading apparatus, worked from without 
through a closely packed stuffing box. Into this vessel 
force an equal pressure to that which is maintained on the 
aerated water vessel; and then, by means of a pipe con- 
necting the two vessels, draw the water into the flour, and 
set the kneading apparatus to work at the same time. 

By this arrangement the water acts simply as limped 
water among the flour; the flour and water are mixed and 
kneaded together into paste, and to such an extent as to 
give it the necessary tenacity. 

After this is accomplished the pressure is released, the 
gas escapes from the water, and in doing so raises the 
dough in the most beautiful and expeditious manner. 

Great care must be exercised in baking^ as the dough is 
excessively cold ; first, because cold water is used in the 
process; and next, because of its sudden expansion on ris- 
ing. It is tlien placed in the oven some 40® Fahr. in tem- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMULiB AND MEMORANDA. 



peraturQ lower than the ordinary fermented bread. This, 
together with its slow springing until it reaches the boiling 
poiDt, renders It essential that the top crust shall not be 
formed until the very last moment. It is therefore neces- 
sary to have an oven constructed which is heated through 
the bottom, and furnished with the means of regulating 
th« i*€at of the top, so that the bread is cooked through the 
boffom, and just at the last, the top heat is put on and the 
crust formed. 

AFRICANS— CRACKERS. 

16 lbs flour. 32 eggs. 

4 Jbs Imtter. Few drops oil lemon, 

8 tbs sugar. Coriander or fennel seed. 

Make fTBtifl" dough with milk ; pass through a star jum- 
ble forcer; cut IJ inches long: pan closely. 

ALBERT BISCUIT, (1.) 

4 m& flour. 112 yolks of eggs. 

6 lbs sugar. 3 tubiespoonsful lemon zest. 

5 lb ground sweet almonds. 1 do mixed spices. 
Bake in small prepared fancy moulds. 

ALBERT BISCUIT, (2.) 
16 lbs flour. i gallon water, 

li lbs sugar. IJ oz soda. 

2J lbs butter or lard. 1 oz tartaric acid. 

Cut with Albert cutter. 

ALBERT GEMS. 

16 ibs flour. i oz cream tiirtar. 

4 lbs sugar. J oz soda. 

3 lbs lard. 2 qts milk. 

1 J oz corn starch. 3 oz salt. 

Make a moderately stiff dough ; cut with prepared cutter. 

ALEXANDRA FINGERS. 
16 lbs flour. IJ ozs oil lemon. 

8 tbs brown sugar. 3 ozs ground ginger. 

3 lbs lard. 1^ ozs tartaric acid. 

1 gallon syrup, 2 ozs soda. 

} I't water. 
Cut with regular finger cutter. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULJE AND MEMORANDA. 



ALEXANDRA NUTS. 
Same mixture as for Alexandra Fingers. 

ALMOND BIRD'S NEST CAKE. 

Almond Rout Cake Paste. Royal Icing. 

White Comfits. 

Form the paste into balls the size of walnuts ; make an 
impression or well in the centre by pressure with the han- 
dle of the paste-brush ; drop three or four white comfits into 
the nest, to represent eggs ; bake the next day ; when cold, 
pipe a rim of Royal Icing round the edge of the nest; dip 
this into very finely chopped pistachios. 

ALMOND BISCUIT. 

1 lb sugar. 1 oz blanched bittenilmonds 

4 ozs blanched sweet al- 4 ozs ground Rice flour. 

monds. Whites of 4 eggs. 

Reduce almonds and sugar to a smooth paste ; beat up 
well with the white of the eggs (whisked to a froth) and 
the rice flour ; drop the light batter through the biscuit bag 
upon a buttered tin. 

ALMOND BREAD. 

1 lb sweet almonds, chopped J lb butter. 

flne. 4 eggs. 

2 ozs bitter almonds, chop'd IJ lbs flour. 

fine. A little lemon zest. 

1 lb crushed sugar. 

Cut with round cutter ; pan closely; when baked cover 
with Royal.Icing, variously tinged and fiavored according 
to fancy. 

ALMOND BRIDE CAKE. 
Same as Lady Cake with almond fiavor; cover with 
Royal Icing and ornament according to fancy. 

ALMOND CAKE (1.) 
1 lb pulverized sugar. 14 whites of eggs. 

10 ozs ground sweet almonds. | lb of fiour. 
1 qt yolks of eggs. 

Beat yolks, sugar and almonds very light; add whites, 
beat very stifl"; lastly the fiour;— bake in prepared Savoy 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



PORMUIiJE AND MEMORANDA. 9 

cake mould, omitting the sugar in the preparation for coat- 
ing tlie mould. 

ALMOND CAKE. (2) 

Weigh 1 doz. eggs in the shell ; take the same weight of 
flour, butter and sugar. 

Make a smooth paste with } lbs sweet almonds and a 
iittle essence of lemon ; add the eggs and other ingredients 
gradually ; beat well and bake about 1} inehs thick in but- 
tered pans. 

ALMOND CAKES. 

2 lbs sweet almonds. Whites of 1 dozen eggs. 

4 J to 5 lbs loaf sugar. 

Pound almonds and sugar ; beat in the whites ; drop with 
a, biscuit bag on wafer paper about the size of walnuts, and 
an inch apart; put a few pieces of almonds cut in slices on 
the top of each : dust with powdered sugar ; when baked 
and cold, break the wafer paper off round the edges. 

ALMOND CARROTS. 
Almond Rout Cake Paste. 

Form the paste into small French carrots ; stick a very 
small piece of wood into the butt end of each ; tie a piece 
of thread to each stick ; hang them to dry until next day 
and bake in a moderate oven ; then dip them into Glace 
Icing, colored with vegetable extracts, and hang them up to 
dry ; afterwards, take out the small sticks, and substitute a 
slip of angelica to form the stem, sticking it with Royal 
Icing. 

ALMOND CRIPS. 

1 lb sweet almonds, un- 4 whole eggs, 
blanched. 2 yelks of eggs. 

1 ft) pulverized sugar. Zest of 4 oranges. 

1 ft) flour. 

Beat almonds with a little orange-flower wat^* to a fine 
paste ; add the other Ingredients; roll out in the shape of a 
rolllng-pln ; egg It over and bake on a buttered sheet In a 
moderate oven ; when done, cut up while hot in thin slices, 
drying them in the oven ; when dried, moisten the edges 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



10 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

with Boyal Icing; dip the moistened part in finely ciiopped 
pistacliios, and dry them for a few minutes. 

ALMOND CROCKETS. 
(Same as Almond Crips.) 

ALMOND DROPS (1.) 
16 lbs flour. 3 pts water. 

16 lbs granulated sugar. 2 to 3 drachms oil bitter al- 

4 lbs butter. monds. 

2 qts eggs. 

Mal^e a soft dough and drop by hand or machine. 

ALMOND DROPS (2.) 
Same mixture as for Almond Calces; stir in the eggs 
gradually till the mixture is soft enough to drop freely from 
a knife ; bake on prepared tins, omitting the sliced almonds. 

ALMOND FAGGOTS. 
Almond Rout Cake Paste. 
Roll out moderately thin and out into bands 2 inches 
wide; cut these into strips; fold a few strips together to 
represent a faggot of wood, placing one strip of paste around 
the centre to form the tie ; place thenGi^upon cartridge x>aper 
until next day, and bake in a moderate oven. 

ALMOND FINGERS. 

16 lbs flour. i gal milk. 

8 lbs sugar. 2 ozs ammonia. 

4 lbs butter and lard. 1 oz soda. 

1 qt eggs. Oil bitter almonds to flavor. 

Cut with finger cutters. 

ALMOND GENOESE CAKE. 

1 lb flour. i pt brandy. 

1 ft) butter. 8 eggs. 

] ft) sugar. Pinch of salt. 

Pour quarter inch thick in buttered tins ; bake to a light 
brown; cut into small cakes of any fanciful form; put 
icing upon each cake and sprinkle upon the icing one-lialf 
pound almonds, (blanched and chopped), which has been 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMTTLiE AND MEMORANDA. 11 

mixed with two ounces sugar and a few drops of orange 
flower water ; put a little sugar over the whole, and set in 
the oven to hrown. 

ALMOND GINGERS. 
These are made in the same manner as the best ginger 
snaps, with the addition of oil of bitter almonds and oil of 
cassia, to taste. As these oils are very strong they must be 
used with great dhcretion. 

ALMOND JUMBLES (1.) 

1 lb flour. 1 doz eggs. 

2 lbs sugar. 1 pt sour milk. 

J lb butter. A little rose water. 

1^ lb almonds, chopped fine, 2 teaapoons soda dissolved in 

but not powdered. boiling water. 

Drops in rings or round cakes upon buttered paper. 

ALMOND JUMBLES (2.) 
Same mixture as Almond Fingers or Almond Nuts; cut 
with Jumble cutter. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 
(See Macaboons.) 

ALMOND NUTS. 
16 lbs flour. iptmilk. 

6J lbs sugar. ^ J pt water. 

2i Vba butter. " li ozs ammonia. 

1 pt eggs. Few drops oil bitter almonds 

ALMOND ORGEAT. 

2 lbs skinned almonds. 2 lbs sugar. 

After soaking, pound to a paste, adding occasionally a few 
drops of orange-flower water. 

ALMOND PASTE CAKE. 
1 tb sweet almonds. IJ lbs fine white sugar. 

i oz gum tragacanth, soaked and squeezed 
through a napkin. 
Blanch the almonds; pound quarter of them with a lit- 
tle rose water to prevent oiling; when pounded to a paste^ 
pound another quarter, and so on until all are done; llieii 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



12 FORMUL-ffi AND MEMORANDA. 

put the paste through a hair sieve, and put it into a pre- 
serving kettle with the sugar; place over a slow fire; keep 
stirring about 25 minutes, clearing it from the sides of the 
pan ; when it feels tough, take it out and put into a mortar 
with the gum tragacanth ; add the juice of a lemon, and 
pound till quite cold, when it is ready for use. 

If not used directly, roll up in a ball and place upon a 
plate under a basin to keep moist. Stands can be made of 
this paste, or it may be converted into any fancy ornament- 

ALMOND PASTE WALNUTS. 
Almond Rout Cake Paste. 
Mould the kernels in a walnut mold, placing them on car- 
tridge paper; mould the shells and place them also on 
paper; next day bake them off, the shells a good brown 
tinge, while the kernels can be dried quite pale ; Join the 
half kernels to the half shells with Boyal icing, so as to 
represent a walnut partly open. 

ALMOND ROCK CAKE. 
1 ft) Jordan almonds, blanch- 1 lb pulverized sugar. 

ed and finely cut. i doz eggs, the whites only. 

Beat the eggs stiff; add the sugar and almonds; lay out 
size of a hickory nut on floured pans. 

ALMOND ROCKETS. 
Almond Rout Cake Paste. 
Moisten it with a little extra yolk of eggs, to make it soft- 
er, so as to pass through the biscuit syringe; cut into 5 inch 
lengths; place on paper and bake- the next day. It may 
be made into a variety of pretty patterns with the biscuit 
syringe. 

ALMOND ROCKS, (1.) 
1 lb Jordan almonds, blanch- 4 yolks of eggs, 
ed, cut up into filletsand i white of an egg. 
dried. 1 oz pounded sugar. 

Mix and lay out in the form of rocks on wafer paper; 
bake in a sharp oven for a few minutes; when done dry for 
three hours. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 1^ 

ALMOND ROCKS, (2.) 

1 ft) sweet almonds. Whites of 8 eggs, beaten to 
1^ lbs do do cut in slices. a stiff paste. 

2 lbs loaf sugar. 

Beat the whole almonds and sugar, and pass through 
sieve ; mix in the e^gs and sliced almonds to make a mod- 
erately stiff paste; form into rock shapes; bake on tins cov- 
ed with wafer paper, laying them about an inch apart. 

ALMOND ROUT CAKE. 

1 ft) ground sweet almonds. A little lemon zest. 

1 ft) Bne pulverized sugar- 

Form into a smooth paste with the yolks of eggs; make 
into fancy shapes; decorate according to fancy, with dried 
cherries, preserved gages, apricots, nonparlels, candied 
peel, comfits, etc.; lay each pattern or design on square 
pieces of cartridge paper dusted with sugar; let them 
remain until next day ; bake in a moderate oven. 

ALMOND SAVOY CAKE. 
Prepare a Savoy cake mixture; strew over the top^ 
blanched almonds, cut in strips, dust with sugar, and bake 
on buttered tins, an inch thick. 

ALMOND SNAPS. 
Same mixture as best lemon snaps, but flavored with oil 
bitter aimonds, in place of lemon. 

ALMOND SPONGE CAKE. 
(See Sponge Cake— Almond. 

ALMOND TEA CAKE. 

1 ft) flour. 10 eggs. 

1 ft) pulverized sugar. 

With the biscuit bag lay out half the mixture in round 
shapes like the size of a walnut; lay out the other half in 
smaller oblong shapes with a spoon ; on the former, sprin- 
kle cut almonds, and on the latter, put cut almonds and 
strips of citron ; when baked put a little white or colored 
icing on each. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



14 FOBMULiE AND MEfifOBANDA. 

ALMOND TURK'S CAP. 
1 ft) fine flour. 1 ft) pulverized sugar. 

1 ft) ground sweet almonds. A little Jemon zest. 

Form into a paste with the yolks of eggs ; make into a 
ball : roll them in the yolk of egg and tlieu in rough sugar; 
when baked, pipe a large dot of Royal Icing on the top of 
each ; stick a red cherry kernel comfit on the top of each ; 
then place four pellets of blanched pistachios to lay length- 
ways from the top, so as to resemble a Turk's cap. 
ALMOND TURNIPS. 
Proceed as for almond carrots, except, make the paste into 
the form of young turnips, and dip them in pure white 
glace icing. 

ALPHABET CRACKERS. 
16 ft)s fiour. i gallon sour milk. 

2 VbB sugar. 2 ozs soda. 

1} ft)S butter and lard. i oz tartaric acid. 

Make a stiff dough ; cut with Alphabet cutters* 

AMERICAN BISCUIT, (Plain.) 
16 ft)s fiour. 2 J tt)s butter. 

2^ ft)S sugar. Essence of lemon to fiavor. 

Make a stiff dough with milk ; put into a cloth for half 
an hour ; break smooth ; cut with American cracker cutter. 

AMERICAN LEMON CAKES OR CRACKERS. 

(See Lemon Crackers.) 

AMERICAN MACAROONS. 

( See Macaroons. ) 
ANISEED BREAD. 
i} ft)S flour. i % choppe<l ahnonds. 

1 fib sugar. 2 ozs anise seed. 

9 eggs. Pinch of ammonia. 

Lay out in long strips; glaze with the white of eggs, or 
chocolate glazing, etc.; when baked, cut in small pieces. 

ANISEED CAKE. 
4 lbs flour. 1 oz ammonia. 

4 lbs sugar. J lb aniseed. 

32 eggs. 

Roll out thin and cut with a small round cutter. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 15 

ANISEED COOKIES. 

( See Cookies. ) 

ANISEED JUMBLES. 
Same mixture as Almond Fingers, omitting the oil bitter 
almonds and adding one to two ounces aniseed. 

ANIMALS-CRACKERS. 
Use Alplmbet oi* Corn-Hill mixture and cut with prepared 
cutters in the shapes of any animals the fancy may suggest. 

APPLE BREAD. 

f tb flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

i pint stewed apples, free 2 teaspoons Baking Powder, 
from lumps. White sugar to taste. 

i pint milk. 

Sift flour, salt and powder. Dilute apple sauce in a bowl 
witli the milk, and use sugar suflicient to destroy the sour 
taste; add the flour, etc., to it; mix quickly into a stiff bat- 
ter ; iK>ur into a well greased square bread tin ; bake at once. 

APPLE GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Proceed as for squash or pumpkin griddle cakes, except, 
apples being usually thinner than the squash, they will not 
need as much milk. 

APPLE JELLY CAKE. 
(See Jeli.y Cake.) 

APPLE SHORT CAKE. 
(See Short Cake.) 

APRICOT BISCUITS GLACE. 
Make some pieces of square sponge biscuits, with apricot 
jam ;— boil two pounds sugar to a blow ; add one-half glass 
Noyau; give it another boil for a half minute; remove 
from the fite; rub the sugar a little at the side of the boiler 
with a spoon ; dip the apricot biscuits in this with a fork ; 
lay them on a sieve to set. 

APRICOT SURPRISE BISCUITS. 
(See SuRPUi»E Biscuit.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



16 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

ARGYKES-CRACKERS. 
16 fibs flour. 2 qts milk. 

4 lbs sugar. J oz cream tartar. 

3 lbs butter or lard. 2 drachms soda. 
1} ozs corn starch. 3 oz» salt. 

Cut with prepared, or any fancy cutter. 
ARMY BREAD. 
( See Ship Biscuit.) 
ARROWROOT BISCUIT. 

4 lbs flour. 10 lbs sugar. 

4 lbs best Bermuda arrow- 8 doz eggs. 

root. 
Lay out in little round tins; dust with sugar. 

ARROWROOT CRACKERS, (1.) 
16 fibs flour. 2 ozs saleratus. 

11 lbs arrowroot. 2 ozs tartaric acid. 

5 lbs butter. 2 ozs salt. 
2} lbs sugar. 

Dissolve sugar, salt, saleratus and acid in about one g^- 
lon water ; add it to the flour with the butter rubbed in ; 
partly mix it, then add suflicient water ; break down very 
fine ; cut with oval arrowroot cutter. 

ARROWROOT CRACKERS, (2.) 
16 fibs flour. J fib arrowroot. 

2 fibs lard. 2 ozs ammonia. 

2i fibs sugar. 3 ozs salt. 

2 qts water. Oil lemon, to flavor. 

ARROWROOT CRACKERS, (3.) 
16 lbs flour. i oz tartaric acid. 

4 fibs sugar 2 drachms soda. 

3 lbs lard. 2 qts milk. 
3 ozs salt. 

ARROWROOT DROPS. 
Same mixture as Arrowroot Biscuit. 

ARROWROOT JUMBLES. 
Use any of the mixtures for Arrowroot Crackers. 

ATLANTIC CABLE CAKE. 

(See Neapolitan Cake.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



PORMUIi^ AND MEMORANDA. 17 

BABA CAKE. 
Same as Savaran cake, only adding lightly proportion^ 
ate quantities of dried elierries, apricots and green gages, 
soaked in brandy or liqueur, just before putting in the mix- 
ture ; bake in Baba mould. 

BAKING POWDER BREAD. 
(See Bread Without Yeast.) 

BALMORETTES. 
(Same as BaijMoral Biscuit.) 

BALMORAL BISCUIT. 
16 %a flour. 5 doz eggs. 

1 % butter. } pint water. 

f lb sugar. i oz soda. 

Cut a little smaller and thinner than for sodas; pan 
loosely that they may cup. 

BANANA FINGERS. 
Same mixture as Almond Fingers, omitting oil bitter al- 
monds, and flavoring with extract of banana. 

BANNOCKS. 
Cakes made of flour, water and salt, and baked ou hot 
plates iu an oven. 

BATH BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

BATH CAKES, (1.) 
2J fts sifted flour. 2 gills honey water. 

10 ozs moist sugar. 

Dissolve sugar in water ; pour it upon the flour and honey 
water ; roll out thin ; cut into biscuit ; place on buttered tins ; 
wet the tops with cold water and bake in a quick oven. 

BATH CAKES (2.) 
1 fi» flour. i gill yeast. 

i % butter. i & sugar. 

6 egg?. 1 oz carraway seed. 

Bake on tins. 
2 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



1 



18 FORMULAE AND MKMOKANDA. 

BATH CRACKERS. 

16 fcs flour. 2 qts water. 

7 lbs granulated sugar. 2 ozs ammonia. 

Sh lbs butter or lard. 

Roll out quarter inch thick; cut with plain round cutter; 
nan closely without touching, to give a fine white edge ; bake 
a nice brown. 

BEAT BISCUIT. 

H tt> flour. 1 qt milk. 

1 lb butter. Salt to taste. 

Mix; knead it, mould it, pound it thoroughly about one- 
hiiir hour; roll out one-half inch thick; cut round and 
bake in a quick oven. 

BELGRADER CAKES. 
1 lb flour. 3 eggs. 

1 S» sugar. i oz ammonia. 

6 c>zs chopped almonds. A little lemon zest. 

C:ut in small shapes in the form of the letter S ; place on 
greased pans; flatten with the hand; wash with yolks. 

BERLIN CAKES. 
Bame as Belgrader cakes, omitting the almonds* 

BELVIDERE CAKE. 
1 lb flour. 1 lb currants. 

6 ozs sugar. i oz ammonia. 

j ib butter. Orauge zest to flavor. 

1 (loz eggs. 
Bake in paper-lined deep cake pan. 

BERMUJ^A BISCUIT. 

I a lbs flour. 2 qts water. 

'S\ lbs sugar. 3 ozs salt. 

]| lbs lard. } oz ammonia. 

rjut in scollops with a Bermuda cutter. 

BTJOUS. 

( See Nics-Nacs.) 

BIRD CRACKERS. 

(See Animals.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 19 

BISCUIT8 DECORATED WITH PIPING. 
Pipe with the cornet iu Royal icing, some square pieces of 
Oenoacakein various pat terrs, according to fancy: sucli as a 
rose, a bunch of grapes, a bird, a tulip, a flying cupid, or any 
other design, for the centre; and a fancy frame to enclose 
it. The Genoa cake may be masked previous to piping ; then 
with Glace icing, pink or chocolate icing, which will show 
the piping off with very good effect. The smooth parts of 
Savoy biscuits or drops can also be decorated. 

BITTER ALMOND MACAROONS. 

(See Macaroons.) 

BLACK CAKE. 
(See Fruit Cake— Black.) 

BLACKBERRY GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Proceed as directed for Huckleberry griddle cakes, using 
blackberries in place of huckleberries. 

BLISTERS. 

(See Captain's Biscuit, thin.) 

BLOCK CAKE. 

nRST MIXTURE. SECOND MIXTURE 

1} ft>s flour. li tt.s flour. 

l| fi)S sugar. 1 & sugar. 

1 fl) butter. 1 pt yolks of eggs. 

1 pint whites of eggs. 1 lb butter. 

1 gill molasses. 
Drop every alternate spoonful of each mixture into the 
pan ; bake like pound cake. 

BLUSHING PINKS. 
Pound cake mixture, except in preparing it use only the 
whites of eggs ; lay out a little over one inch thick, and 
bake in papered tins; when done, cover the top with 
Royal icing, colored pink and flavored with rose ; cut in 
squares of two and a half inches. 

BOLIVAR CAKE. 

1 % flour. Candied orange peel. 

2 spoonfuls yeast. Candied lemon peel. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



20 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

I lb clarified butter. Blanched and chopped al- 

1 It) sugar. monds. 

6 eggs. Cinnamon to flavor. 

Make a sponge with flour, yeast and milk ; when raised, 
add sugar, butter and eggs (well beaten) ; lastly the balance 
of floor and flavoring, etc. ; keep warm, and bake in earth- 
ern basins, well buttered. 

BOLIVAR CAKE— GERMAN. 

Same mixture as for Bolivar Cake, omitting the sugar; 

punch holes in the cake with a sharp pointed knife, and 

pour in one pound clarified sugar (flavored with cinnamon 

or orange) while hot; ornament the cake with sugar plums* 

BON TON CRACKERa 
Use Corn Hill cracker mixture ; cut with fancy cutters. 

BORDEAUX CAKE. 
Make a sheet of Genoa cake; cut three rounds about six 
inches across; mask each layer with apricot jam ; stick the 
rounds together ; trim the sides smooth with a knife; pipe 
a pretty design on the top with Royal icing, introducing 
red currant jelly with the paper cornet in the same manner, 
according to fancy. 

BORDER BISCUIT. 
16 1t>s flour. , 2 qts water. 

2 lbs butter. ' 2 ozs ammonia. 
2i lb sugar. 

Cut with fancy cutter. 

BORDER BUTTER BISCUIT. 
16 lbs flour. 2 qts sour milk. 

3 lbs lard. 1^ ozs ammonia. 
31b8 sugar. 1 oz cream tartar. 
Cut with fancy cutters. 

BORDER HANOVER BISCUIT. 
(Same mixture as Border Butter Biscuit.) 
Cut with Hanover border cutter. 



FORMULiEJ AND MEMORANDA. 21 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

1 pint molas?es. Rye Flour, Yellow Corn 

1 pint ferment, or Meal, and Graham Hour, 

Joz compressed yeast, dis- equal quantities to make a 

solved ID 1 pint lukewarm dough about the consis- 

water. lency of pound cake 

3 oz soda. dough. 
A little salt. 

Drop into shapes of any pattern ; bake or steam, which- 
ever is most co'nvenient. It is generally put into moulds, 
3 to 4 inches on the bottom, 6 to 8 inches high, with a flare 
of } to 1 inch on top. It lakes 12 hours to bake in a very 
<jool oven ; they may, however, be steamed in about 4 hours, 
and will keep longer and cut better than if baked in the 
oven. The moulds should have a cover, the same as pud- 
ding moulds. 

BOSTON CAKE. 

1 lb sifted flour. J gill brandy. 

1 !b sugar. 1 grated nutmeg. 

lfi> butter. 1 tablespoon ful mace and 

} doz fresh eggs. cinnamon. 

1 pint cream. 1 teaspoon ful soda. 

Bake thoroughly in a large square buttered tin; when 
cool, sift powdered sugar over it, and cut into squares. 

BOSTON CREAM PUFFS. 
(See Cream Puffs.) 

BOSTON CRACKERS. 
16 Rs flour. 4ozsalt. 

1 pint ferment. 2 oz soda. 

2J fi»s butter or lard. 

After setting sponge, make a firm dough ; let it stand sev- 
eral hours; cut round with a regular Boston cracker cutter. 

BOSTON GINGER-BREAD. 
(See Ginger-Bread.) 

BOSTON MUFFINS. 
12 oz flour. 1 tablespoon ful sugar. 

4 oz corn meal. 1 tablespoon ful butter. 
1 pint milk. 1 teaspoon ful salt. 

3 eggs. Cinnamon to flavor. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 



Make a sponge with German yeast; mix and proceed as 
for plain muffins. 

BOUCHEES. 

1 lb flour. 1 doz eggs. 

1 lb sugar. 

Lay out in oval shapes with a biscuit bag; put thin slices 
of pine apple, or candied fruits in the centre ; lay on paper; 
sift sugar over them and bake in a quick oven; when done, 
oruament with icing, flavored and colored to suit the kind 
of fruit, or preserves used for the centre. 

BOURNEVILLE CAKE. 

1 lb flour. Chopped lemon peel. 

1 lb butter. Pinch of salt. 

1 doz eggs. 

Mix altogether except the butter, adding a little orange 
flower water; let the mixture stand about an hour; work in 
the butter ; bake in moulds or hoops ; ornament with com- 
fits, or otherwise, as desired. 

BOX BREAD. 
Bread baked in tin boxes; mould a long shape to the loaf, 
and put in the box ; grease the boxes well, and have them 
cleaned after each baking ; the boxes are set on the oven 
floor. 

BRAN BREAD. 
Made from the whole meal, without sifting outany of the 
bran. 

BRAN BREAD, (2.) 
To every pound of flour add 3 ozs of bran. 

BRANDY SNAPS. 
16 ft)S flour. 6 pints molasses. 

5 lbs brown sugar. 6 ozs cloves and mace. 

6 fi)S butter. 

Mix and bake as ginger snaps. 

BRANDY WAFERS. 

1 fi> flour. 1 fi» sugar. 

1 % butter. Mace to flavor. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUIiJE AND MEMORANDA. 



23 



Lay out on thin paiis, jumble shape; when done, curl 
thciii round by rolling around a stick. 



(See under 
Aerated. 
Boflton Brown. 
Box. 
Bran. 
Brown, 
Cottage. 
Composition. 
Corn. 
Diahctir*. 
Dispeptic. 
Pucht^ss County 
l/'ancy. 



BREAD, 
appropriate headings, viz.) 
French. 
Grail am. 
Household. 
Iceland Moss. 
Irsh. 
Laxative. 
Leavened. 
London White. 
Milk. 
Mixed. 
New York. 
Norwegian. 



Paris White. 

Paris Steamed. 

Rice. 

Rye. 

Salt Rising. 

Scotch. 

Soda. 

Twist. 

Vienna. 

Wh eaten. 

Un fermented. 

And others. 



BREAD, (1.) 

Make a ferment with 1 qt patent yeast; put 1 bushel of 
Hour in a trough; make a hollow; put therein the above 
ferment and 1 qt. tepid water; mix this with some of the 
flour quite smooth, almost to the consistence of double 
cream; shake flour over this, and cover with a cloth for the 
sponge to rise. When well risen, put in lialf a handful of 
salt; mix all together with luke-warm water into a com- 
pact, tough dough; put a cloth over it to keep it warm; in 
about half an hour knead it well ; cover again with the 
cloth, and in another hour it will be ready for use. 

Have the oven a good solid heat; divide the dough into 
two or four pound loaves ; mold them smooth and quickly, 
and either bake them in tins or the bottom of the oven ; 
keep the door closed on the bread ; the 4fi» loaves will take 
about 2J hours; the 2 lb loaves, less in proportion. 

The above recipe can be made with 1 pt of good brewer's 
yeast. 

BREAD (2.) 

Stir a ferment by boiling a few potatoes in the proportion 
of 5 or 6 lbs per sack of flour, (280 lbs.), peeling, mashing 
and straining through a cullender, and adding thereto about 
I pailful of water, 2 or 3 lbs. o flour, and one quart yeast. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



24 FORMUIiJE AND MEMORANDA. 

The water need not be warmed beforehand, for the heat of 
the potatoes is sufficient to impart a proper temperature 
(70 to 90 ° Fahr.) to the liquid mass which should be well 
stirred up with the hand into a smooth, thin and homo- 
geneous mass, and then left at rest. 

In the course of an hour or two, the mass is seen to rise 
and fall, which swelling and heaving up is due to carbonic 
acid, generated by the fermentation induced in tlie mass, 
which may be thus left till wanted. In about three hours 
this fermentative action will appear to be at an end, and 
when it has arrived at that stage, it is fit to be used. The 
ferment, however, may be left for six or seven hours and 
be still very good at the end of that time, but the common 
practice is to use it within four or five hours after its pre- 
paration. 

'^Setting the spongeJ^ Stir the ferment well, adding 
thereto about two gallons of lukewarm water, and as much 
flour as will make, with the ferment, a rather stiff dough. 
This constitutes ^'the aponge^^^ and is kept in a warm 
situation. In about an hour fermentation again begins to 
make its appearance; the mass becomes distended or is 
heaved up by the carbonic acid produced, the escape ot* 
which is impeded by its toughness. A time, however, 
some comes when the quantity of carbonic acid thus pent 
up becomes so great that it bursts through, and the sponge 
collapses or drops down. This is called the first sponge. 

As the fermentation, however, is still going on, the 
carbonic acid soon causes the sponge to rise again as before 
to nearly twice its volume, when the carbonic acid, bursting 
through the mass, causes it to fall a second time; this con- 
stitutes the second sponge. The rising and falling might 
then go on for 24 hours ; but as the alcoholic will pass into 
the vinous fermentation soon after the second rising, the 
baker always interferes after the second, and very frequently 
after the first sponge. 

Bread made from the first sponge is generally sweeter ; 
but unless the best flour is used (and even then) the loaf 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULiE AND MKMORANDA. 25 

made from it is smaller in size and more compact than that 
made with the second sponge. In liot weather, however, 
as there would be much danger of the bread turning sour, 
if the sponge were allowed to ''take a second fall,^^ the first 
sponge is frequently used. 

Breaking the Sponge, This is done by adding to it the 
necessary quantity of water and of salt. The whole mass 
Is then torn to pieces by the hand, so as to break any lumps 
that there may be, and mixed up thoroughly with the 
water. This being done, the rest of the sack of flour is 
gradually added and kneaded into a dough of proper con- 
sistency. The quantity of salt varies from i lb. to J lb. per 
bushel of flour (2J to 3i lbs. per sack.) New flour, or flour 
of inferior quality, always requires, at the very least, 3J lbs. 
per sack, to bind it, that is to say, to render the dough 
suflBciently firm to support itself while fermenting; salt 
acting to a great extent like alum, though not so powerfully. 
As to the quantity of water to be used, it depends also a 
great deal on the quality of the flour, the beat qualities ab- 
sorbing most ; though the baker too often contrives to force 
and keep into bread made from inferior flour, by a process 
called underbaking^ the same amount of water as is nom- 
inally taken up by that of the best qualities. Generally 
speaking, and with flour of good average quality, the 
amount of water is such, that the diluted sponge forms 
about 14 gallons of liquid. 

The kneading of the dough is one of the most important 
processes of bread making, since it not only produces a 
more complete hydration of the flour, but by infusing acer- 
tain quantity of air within the dough, and forcibly bring- 
ing into closer contact the molecules of the yeast or leaven 
with the sugar of the flour, and also with a portion of the 
starch, the fermentation or rising of the whole mass, on 
which the sponginess of the loaf and its digestibility sub- 
sequently depend, is secured. When by forcing the hand 
into the dough and withdrawing it, if none of the dough 
adheres to it, the kneading is completed. It is then allowed 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 



to remain in the trough for about IJ to 2 hours, if brewers^ 
or Oerman yeast have been employed in making the 
sponge ; if on the contrary, patent yeast or hop yeast have 
been used, three or even four hours may be required for the 
dough to rise up, or give proof. 

When the dough is sufflcienUy proofed^^^ weigh into 
lumps ; shape into proper forms of say 4J lbs. each; expose 
them for about an hour in an oven heated to a temperature 
of about 570° Fahr., the heat gradually falling to 430° or 
420°. The yield after baking of a sack of flour, is from 90 
to 92 really four pounti loaves, as large again as they were 
when put into the oven in the shape of dough. 

BREAD WITHOUT SPONGE. 
Mix the yeast with the greater part of the warm milk 
or water, and wet the whole of the flour at once, After a 
little salt has been stirred in. Set to rise in a warm place. 

BREAD WITHOUT YEAST. 

To every pound of flour add a teaspoonful of Baking 
Powder, with a little salt, and thoroughly mix while in a 
dry state ; then pour on gradually about half a pint of cold 
water, or milk and water, mixing quickly but thoroughly 
into a dough of the usual consistence, taking care not to 
knead it more than is necessary to mix it perfectly; make 
it into small loaves, which must be immediately put into a 
quick oven. 

BREAD BISCUIT. 

lib baked bread crumbs, Jib butter, 
bruised. 8 eggs. 

1 fi) sifted sugar. J gill double cream. 

Stir well together, adding a little vanilla sugar; fill the 
mixture three parts full into fancy cases; dust with sugar 
and bake. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES. 
itt) bread. 1 e^g, 

i fi) flour. Salt to taste. 

1 teaspoonful brown sugar. 1 } teaspoonsful Baking Pow- 



i pt milk. der. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULJE AND MEMORANDA. 27 

Steep the bread, free from crust, in warm water ; when 
thoroughly saturated, wring dry in a clean towel ; dilute it 
with the beaten egg and milk. * 

BREAD MUFFINS. 
Same mixture as for Bread Griddle Cakes; or the Baking 
Powder may be omitted and a sponge made with German 
yeast; proceed as for muffins. 

BREAKFAST BISCUIT, 
1 J ft>s of flour. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

3 gills milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 gill yeast. Pinch of soda. 

1 egg. A little salt. 

Mix milk, yeast, flour, and salt; set to rise once; add the 
other ingredients, and flour enough to make a stiff batter ; 
cut with a biscuit cutter; set to rise about an hour; bake 
quickly. 

BREAKFAST BRIOCHE. 
(See Brioche.) 

BREAKFAST CAKES. 
1 % flour. i teaspoon tartaric acid. 

3 gills milk. i teaspoon soda. 

1 oz sugar. A little salt and nutmeg. 

2 eggs. 

Roll out i inch thick ; cot in square cakes, a little smaller 
than soda crackers. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

IS^ flour. H gills milk. 

6 ozs white corn meal. 1 tablespoon yeast 

2 ozs butter. Salt. 

Mix and mould as for plain rolls ; divide the dough into 
pieces the size of an egg ; again divide these into half, 
which roll out under the hand until they are long and half 
the size of the little flnger ; lay on a greased baking tin 
that they do not touch ; wash them over with milk, and 
bake in a hot oven. 

BRETZELS. 
(See Pretzels.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



28 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

BRIDGEPORT CAKE. 

i fi> flour. Half a nutmeg. 

} lb sugar. Half a lemon. 

} lb butter. i fi> raisins. 

4 eggs. i piut sour milk. 

1 glass wine. 1 teaspoon earb. soda. 
Bake in small buttered tins. 

BRIGHTON BISCUIT, (1.) 

2 fits flour. i teaspoon soda. 

1 tt> sugar. A few earraway seed. 

3 lbs butter. Oil lemon to flavor. 

1 teaspoon cream tartar. 

Make a flrm paste with milk; roll out immediately, and 
proceed as for Brighton biscuit, (2.) 

BRIGHTON BISCUIT, (2.) 
16 ft>s flour, 3 pts water. 

8 lbs sugar. 3 ozs atumonia. 

2 lbs butter. Oil lemon. 

Roll in sheets i inch thick; cut with Brighton oval 
cutter. 

BRILLIANT CRACKERS. 
Use Cornhill Cracker mixture; cut with Brilliant cutters. 

BRIDE CAKE. 
(See Wedding Cake.) 

BRIOCHE (1.) 

1} lbs sifted flour. 10 ozs butter. 

i oz German yeast i doz eggs. 

Use 4 ozs flour with the yeast, and a little salt and diluted 
luke-warm water, to form the sponge ; form it smooth, but 
not too soft ; dust the top with flour ; cover with a napkin, 
and put in a moderately warm place to rise; when well 
risen, put the remainder of the flour on the slab or table ; 
add the butter slightly creamed, a very little powdered 
sugar and a pinch of salt ; mix them well together with the 
sponge and about i doz. eggs, beat up well with the hand; 
gather it up in the basin ; dust with flour and place upon 
the table to rise ; butter a large round plain or Baba mould ; 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 29 

fill a little more than half full; let it rise in the mould 
gradually ; bake in a moderate oven. The whole process 
of making and baking will not take more than from three 
to four hours. 

BRIOCHE (2.) 

1} lbs flour. li ozs German yeast. 

1 lb butter. 10 eggs. 

12 ozs sugar. A little salt. 

Spread about a quarter .of the flour on a board, and hav- 
ing dissolved the yeast in enough tepid water to mix the 
flour into a paste, pour this into it, and knead it thoroughly 
into a stiff ball of dough ; then score with a knife and place 
in a large pan, cover and set in a warm place to ferment; 
this forms the sponge. Spread out the remaining flour, 
and mak^ a hollow in it, into which put the sugar and salt> 
mixed together in a little cold water; then the butter and 
eggs follow the rest, to be stirred or worked together. 
Spread the sponge on the paste, with which it is mixed and 
kneaded ; th6n the whole should be placed in a cloth spread 
in a large wooden bowl (over which a handful of flour has 
been sprinkled); dredge flour over the top, and the whole 
being covered with a towel, set the bowl in a cool place to 
work for 12 or 16 hours. 

The next day dredge and knead the dough ^ell, and re- 
turn to the bowl for at least three hours ; then knead again 
until the paste Is full of small bubbles, and feels like a 
large piece of soft white elastic pudding; fashion into double 
ball-shaped brioches, or rings, or twists or other fancy 
shapes; brush over with egg and water; bake in a rather 
slow oven. 

BRIOCHE FANCY CAKE. 

Add to Brioche Paste (2) cream ; candied peel ; a wine 
glass of orange flower water ; and chopped almonds ; bake 
in small buttered tins, or in round molds of card-board, 
stuck about with lump sugar, chopped up. 

BRIOCHE— SMALL BREAKFAST. 
1} lbs sifted flour. Pinch of salt. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



3J FORMULA AND ME5I011ANDA. 

10 OZ3 butter. 1 oz German yeast. 

1 oz pounded sugar. 4 whole eggs and 5 yelks. 

Mix as for Brioche; mould into balls, and place them on 
buttered baking sheets in the form of buns ; eggs them 
over ; make a hole in the top of each with the thumb ; 
place in this a little ball of brioche, about the size of a wal- 
nut ; egg these over likewise; let them rise a little; bake in 
& quick oven. 

BRIOCHE— VIENNA. 
(See Vienna Brioche.) 

BRITTANY CAKE. 
1 fb flour. f pt cream. 

i lb sugar. li teaspoons baking powder. 

6 ozs butter. 1 lb prunes, cut in 3 pieces. 

i doz eggs. 
Bake in deep, round cake pan. 

BROWN BREAD. 
Is made of (1) rye and Indian meal in equal proportions ; 
or (2) of J each of wheat, rye and Indian meal. Add salt; 
wet with water and yeast enough to raise it ; the dough 
should not be hard enough to mould ; stir with a spoon as 
thick as convenient ; put it immediately into the baking 
pan ; smooth, aver the top with the hand wet in cold water, 
and let it stand until the top cracks ; bake in a hot oven. 

BROWN BREAD BISCUIT. 

1 ft flour. 3 pts yolks of eggs. 

IJ lbs moist sugar. 2 doz whites of eggs. 

1 ft) ground sweet almonds, Powd^d cinnamon to flavor. 

unblanched. 
Bake in small buttered tins. 

BROWN COLLEGE CRACKERS. 
12 lbs wheat flour. 1 oz tartaric acid. 

4 lbs graham flour. 1 oz saleratus. 

3 lbs butter. 1 oz ammonia. 

3 ft)s sugar. i gallon milk or water. 

Roll out i inch thick ; cut with a large milk cutter. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 31 

BRUNSWICK CAKES. 
16 lbs flour. 3 doz eggs. 

4 ft>s butter. Vanilla flavor. 

8 lbs sugar. 

Make a stifl" dough with milk ; cut in two inch squares ; 
strew over top of each, chopped almonds, and orange peel ; 
pan loosely. 

BRUSSELS BISCOTTES. 

1 ib flour. Zest of 2 lemons. 

10 ozs iiuiier. Pinch of salt. 

4 ozs sifted sugar. 1 gill double cream. 

i oz German yeast 

Prepare the paste as for Brioche (1); when sufficiently 
risen, put it in a pan, add the double cream, and when 
thoroughly incorporated beat up the paste with the hand 
until it becomes elastic. Divide the pound of paste into 
about twelve equal parts ; roll these out with flour on a slab, 
about three inches in length, and put each into oblong 
shaped tin pans, previously buttered ; set them on a baking 
sheet to rise; egg over and bake a bright golden color. 
When cold, cut in slices lengthwise ; spread out the slices 
on baking sheets and color slightly in the oven. 

BRUSSELS MACAROONS. 

(See Macaroons:) 

BRUSSELS RUSKS. 

1 ft) flour. i pt milk. 

2 ozs butter. 1 tablespoon yeast. 
2 ozs sugar. Cinnamon to flavor. 
i doz eggs. Lemon zest to flavor. 

Mix as for plain rusks ; bake in a deep, small, square cake 
tin ; when cold, cut into slices J inch thick by 2J inches 
long ; lay these on a baking tin and brown lightly on both 
sides in a hot oven. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES (1.) 
1 qt buckwheat. 1 gill yeast. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Make a thin batter with water and set to rise over night; 
fry on hot griddle. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKJES (2.) 
1 qt lukewarm water. 1 gill brewer^s yeast. 

Make a thin batter with buckwheat flour ; let them rise 

as much as they will ; add i teaspoon soda, dissolved in a 

little water ; fry immediately. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES (8.) 
Boil three ozs of Indian meal in one quart water for five 
minutes ; remove from the fire; pour in cold water to reduce 
to blood heat ; add. salt, yeast and buckwheat sufficient to 
make a thin batter; set away to rise over night. 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

I lb buckwheat. J oz salt. 

I tb wheat flour. 2 eggs. 

1 o£ brown sugar. 1 pt milk. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Fry on hot griddle. 

BUNS (1.) 

4 lbs flour. ] R> pounded sugar. 

1 lb butter. 4 ozs German yeast. 

Set a sponge with the yeast, viz., mix it with a little tepid 
water and a little flour, for a quarter of an hour ; add sponge 
to above mixture; work it smooth and replace it in the 
baftiD to rise, about two hours; mould into the form of 
balls ; place on slightly buttered baking sheets : prove them 
ligbt and bake in a sharp oven ; when sufficiently baked, 
brush them over with egg and water (mixed together) to 
give them a gloss. 

BUNS (2.) 
Made of ordinary bread dough, with the aildition of 
brown sugar, lard and eggs. 

BUNS (3.) 

Set a sponge with one quart baker^s yeast, and one pint 

water (if the weather is cold, use warm water); when the 

sponge is ready add 1 R) sugar, and 1 R) butter; make a dough 

and let it get proof; bake in small pieces the size of a rusk; 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 33 



lay out in coffee-sugar aud roll very thin; put on pans and 
let them prove well ; bake in a quick oven. 

N. B. The great secret in producing good buns is the use 
of sweet yeatst. Most all kinds of buns are improved by 
the addition of currants or raisins, carefully cleaned aud 
prepared. 

BUNS— BATH. 

1 lb flour. 1 oz German yeast, made 

J lb butter. into a sponge. 

Yolks of 1 doz eggs. 

Mix the whole lightly together with a little milk ; when 
proved and ready, work in i ft) rough broken loaf sugar; 
lay out on a buttered baking sheet in the shape of rocks; 
put a few comfits on the top of each ; sprinkle water on 
them with a paste brush, to slightly melt the sugar and give 
them a gloss; bake in a sharp oven. 

BUNS— CARRA WAY. 
Plain bun mixture, using carraway seed as flavoring. 

BUNS— CHELSEA. 

1 fb flour. 2 qts milk. 

2 lbs butter. 1 pt brandy and rose water, 
16 eggs. mixed with a little cin- 

1 gill yeast. namon and nutmeg. 

After being well raised, add 2 lbs sugar and IJ to 2 ft>s 
flour. Currants may also be used, if desired. 

BUNS— CINNAMON. 
4 ft)s flour. 1 qt milk. 

1 ft) butter. 2 ozs ground cinnamon. 

1 doz eggs. J pt yeast. 

2 ft)s brown sugar. 

Mix well and set to rise ; make out into buns on a greased 
baking tin, placing them close together; wash over the sur- 
face with a soft brush dipped in milk ; sieve over the tops 
with powdered cinnamon. 

BUNS-CROSS. 
(See Hot Cross Buns.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



84 FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 

BUNS— CURRANT. 
Plain bun mixture with proper quantity of the best cur- 
rants, which should be thoroughly washed in a sieve or 
colender, to remove grit, before adding to the dough. 

BUNS— FRENCH. 

4 lbs flour. 1 doz eggs. 

1} lbs sugar. 1 pt ferment 

i lb butter. i pt water. 

i pt milk. Salt to taste. 

Make a sponge with the water and ferment; let it come 
to a good proof; make a light dough with the other ingre- 
dients; make into buns; let them rise in a warm place; 
put a few strips of citron peel on top. 

BUNS— GERMAN. 
Same mixture as French buns, with the addition of f lb 
citron peel, chopped fine ; after placing on the pans, wet 
them with eggs and flatten down with the hapds; sprinkle 
the tops with course pounded loaf-sugar. 

BUNS— GOOD FRIDAY. 
(See Hot Cross Buns.) 

BUNS— HOT CROSS (1.) 

1 pt isweet milk. i lb melted butter. 

1 gill yeast. | ground nutmeg. 

i % sugar. Salt to taste. 

Set a sponge over night; in the morning mix with 
enough flour to roll out like biscuit; knead well and set to 
rise for five hours; roll half inch thick; cut into round 
cakes and lay in rows on a buttered baking pan. When 
they have stood half an hour, make a cross upon each with 
a knife, and put instantly into the oven ; bake to a light 
brown ; brush over with a feather, dipped in the white of 
an egg beaten up stiff with white sugar. 

BUNS— HOT CROSS (2.) 
Proceed as for plain buns, adding a little ground coriander 
seed; make a cross on the top of each bun with the back of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 35 

a knife, or with a tin made on purpose ; this must be done 
before baking. 

BUNS— JUBILEE. 
4 lbs flour. 1 gill milk. 

IJ ft)8 butter. 8 eggs, 

li lbs sugar. Oil lemon to flavor. 

Set a sponge with about 4 ozs German yeast; make into 
small round balls; dip into coarse sugar, and pan loosely. 

BUNS—LONDON. 
4 lbs dough. 1 doz eggs. 

i Vb sugar. 3 to 4 ozs preserved orange 

i lb butter. peel. 

Mix and set to rise about half an hour ; wash the tops with 
well beaten eggs ; sprinkle sugar on each. 

BUNS-MADEIRA. 

1 fi> flour* i grated nutmeg. 

} tb buttef. i teaspoon ground ginger. 

6 ozs sugfur. 1 teaspoon carraway seed. 

2 ^gs. 

Work well, adding milk and ferment; proceed as for 
plain buns. 

BUNS— PENNY. 
Same as Safflron buns, adding proper quantity of currants. 

BUNS— REGENCY. 
Same as Bath buns, with the addition of candied orange 
peel, currants and allspice (In proper proportions); and 
omitting the comflts on the top. 

BUNS— RICH. 

3 fi>s flour. 1 fb currants. 

2 tt>8 butter. 4 ozs rose water. 

1 & sugar/ i pt yeast. 

Mix and proceed as for Plain buns. 

BUNS— SAFFRON. 
Plain bun mixture, flavored with enough extract of Saf- 
fron to give it a bright yellow color. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 



BUNS— SICILY. 
Same mixture as buns — Bich, omitting tlie currants and 
substituting citron, chopped fine. 

BUNS— SODA. 
1 fb flour. } pt milk. 

6 ozs butter. | % currants or raisins. 

J R) sugar. 1 teaspoon tartaric acid. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon soda. 
Dissolve the soda in the milk ; mix and bake immediately. 

BUNS— SPANISH. 
5 lbs flour. 3^ doz eggs. 

4 lbs sugar. 1 ^t milk. 

2 lbs butter. Pinch of ammonia. 

2 lbs currants. 

Lay out on a sheet with edge all round ; when baked 
cover the top with saffron colored icing, flavored with wine 
or orange ; cut in squares. 

BUNS— SWEET POTATO. 

3 large sweet potatoes. Pinch of salt. , 

I fi> flour. 1^ teaspoons baking powder. 

1 pint cream. 

Boil the potatoes tender ; rub them very fine with the 
cream; add the other ingredients, making a rather firm 
smooth dough; form it into round pieces the size of small 
eggs ; lay out on a greased tin ; bake in a hot oven. 

BUNS— SWISS. 
Same mixture as for French buns, with the addition of 
currants and ground mace; place on the top of each bun a 
piece of citron or lemon-peel ; when baked Move sugar over 

them. 

BUNS— TEA 

Same as Plain buns ; put into buttered tea-cups, filling 

only half full ; set to rise before baking. 

BUNS— VICTORIA. 

2 ozs sugar. 1} ozs currants. 

1 egg, A few thin slices of candied 
IJ ozs ground rice. peei. 

2 ozs butter. 

Roll into balls and bake immediately in a hot oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 87 

BUNS— WASHINGTON. 

4 lbs bread dough. 6 ozs sugar. 

i lb butter. IJ lbs currants. 

Mix with a little milk ; cut into strips one inch wide at 
one end, tapering to a point at the other ; curl them up 
around the larger end and in the middle ; place on pans 
and prove ; wash over with eggs and water ; dredge sugar 
over them and bake quickly. 

BUTTER BORDER CRACKERS. 
(See Border Butter Crackers.) 

BUTTER CAKES. 
4 fts flour. i pt cold water. 

1^ fi>s sugai* 1 teaspoon soda. 

ijr lbs butter. 1 to 2 ozs carraway seed. 

3 eggs. 
Cut in square cakes. 

BUTTER CRACKERS (1.) 
16 lbs flour. i oz ammonia. 

2 ft>s lard. 2 qts water. 

3 ozs salt. 

Cut with butter cracker or oyster cutter. 

BUTTER CRACKERS (2.) 
16 lbs flour. 4 ozs salt. jf 

1 pt ferment. 2 to 3 qts water. 

2%slard. 2 ozs soda 

Set a sponge over night; let the dough stand four or five 
hours before cutting and baking. 

BUTTERMILK BISCUIT. 
1 qt flour. 1 teaspoon soda. 

1 oz butter. 1 pt buttermilk. 

Salt. 

Make a dough as soft as can be moulded; roll out and cut 
into biscuits. 

BUTTER PLATZCHEN. 
1 fc^ flour. i doz eggs. 

1 fi> butter. Zest of one lemon. 

1 lb sugar. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



38 FORMUIiiE AND MEMORANDA. 

Lay out with a spoon on paper; sprinkle hazelnuts, 
chopped fine, on top ; dust with sugar. 

BUTTER SCOTCH CAKES. 

16 lbs flour. li ozs cinnamon. 

1 Ka^ N. O. molasses. ij ozs ginger. 

5 lbs N. O. sugar. J oz cloves. 

5 lbs butter. J lb soda. 

U ozs ammonia. 

They may be dropped with the machine, or made stiff 
enough to roll out thin and cut with small oval cutter. 

BUTTER SCOTCH DROPS (1.) 
16 lbs flour. 1} ozs ammonia. 

8 lbs sugar. 1 pt sweet milk. 

3 lbs butter. ^ to } 02 vanilla. 

IJ lbs lard. li qts eggs. 

Churn sugar, butter and lard to a cream ; add eggs ; cream 
them well ; then add milk, ammonia and flour. 

BUTTER SCOTCH DROPS (2.) 
16 lbs flour. 1 J qts sweet milk. 

8 lbs sugar. i qt eggs. 

3 lbs butter. Pinch of alum. 

1 oz ammonia. Lemon or vanilla flavor. 

cake; of fresh fruit. 

( See Fresh Fruit Cake.) 

CALIFORNIA CAKE. 

3 lbs flour. 1 J gills brandy. 

1 Jibs butter. 1 teaspoon mace. 

2tt>s sugar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

9 yolks of eggs. 1 grated nutmeg. 

1 pt milk. 2 teaspoons cream tartar. 

2 lbs raisins. 1 teaspoon soda. 
2 gills wine. Salt to taste. 

Bake in square buttered tins ; cut in fancy shapes. 

CALIFORNIA CRACKERS. 
16 ft>s flour. i gal sour milk. 

1 lb lard. 1} ozs saleratus. 

} lb butter. J oz tartaric acid. 

2J lbs sugar. 4 to 5 ozs carraway seed. 

Cut with small sized milk cutter. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUIiJE AND MEMORANDA. 



CANADIAN JELLY CAKE. 
(See Jelly Cake.) 

CANDY BISCUIT. 
Make and lay out some Shrewsbury cake mixture ; brush 
them over with a little white of egg; strew over the top 
bruised white sugar-candy ; bake in a moderate oven. 

CANTONES. 

4 %s flour. li doz eggs. 

2 lbs sugar. i oz ammonia. 

2tbs butter. 

Cut out in fancy shapes; sprinkle with coarse white 
sugar; bake on pans. 

CAPTAIN^S BISCUIT (1.) 
16 lbs of flour. Salt to season. 

2 lbs fresh butter. 

Mix up very stiff with milk and water ( half and half) ; 
work well ; let it stand for two hours; break smooth and 
roll thin ; cut round. These biscuit are best baked on the 
tiles in a brick oven. 

CAPTAIN'S BISCUIT (2.) 
16 lbs flour. i oz tartaric acid. 

2 lbs butter. } gal water. 

i oz saleratus. 

CAPTAIN'S BISCUIT— BLISTERS. 
Same mixture as Thin Captain's biscuit; roll out as thin 
08 possible; bake in a very quick oven, being careful that 
they do not burn. 

CAPTAIN'S THIN BISCUIT. 
Same mixture as Captain's biscuit (1), only adding alittle 
more butter; mould out very thin ; bake in a sharp oven. 

CARRAWAY BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

CARRAWAY CAKE. 
Same as Currant cake, substituting carraway seed in place 
of currants. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



40 formulae: and memoranda. 

CARRAWAY COOKIES. 

(See Ck>OKiES.) 

CARRAWAY JUMBLES. 
16 lbs flour. 16 eggs. 

7 9bs sugar. 2 ozs ammonia. 

4 tbs butter or lard. 3 to 4 ozs carraway seed. 

Roll a little over i inch thick ; cut with regular Jumble 
cutter. 

CARROTS. 
(See Almond Carrots.) 

CAULIFLOWER MERINGUES. 
(See Meringues,) 

CELERY DROPS. 
Same as Almond drops, omitting oil of bitter almonds, 
and substituting 1 to 2 ozs ground celery seed. 

CELERY JUMBLES. 
Same mixture as Carraway jumbles, omitting the carra- 
way seed, and substituting whole celery seed. 

CELTIC GINGER BREAD. 
( See Ginger Bread.) 

CENTENNIAL CAKE. 
Fine Fruit cake handsomely decorated with centennial 
designs in piping. 

CENTENNIAL CRACKERS. 

Use Cornhill mixture ; cut with Centennial cutters. 

CHAMPAGNE BISCUIT. 
Same mixture as for Queen's drops, using a few carraway 
seed in place of currants; lay them out with a biscuit bag 
on prepared Vandyke tins, four in a row. 

CHAMPION CRACKERS. 
Use either Cornhill or Alphabet cracker mixtures; cut 
out with Champion cracker cutters. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 41 

CHANTILLY BISCUIT (1.) 
16 lbs flour. 2 doz e^^. 

4 lbs butter. 2 pts milk. 

8 lbs sugar. Oil bitter almonds to flavor. 

Rollout i inch thick; cut with plain round cutter IJ 
inches diameter; wash with white of eggs; turn them over 
on chopped almonds and rough sugar, mixed together; 
bake in a medium oven. 

CHANTILLY BISCUIT (2.) 
16 tt)S flour. IJ ozs ammonia. 

3 lbs butter. 16 eggs. 

6 lbs sugar. Almond flavor. 

CHARCOAL CRACKERS. 

16 ft)S flour. 1 to 2 lbs powdered wood— 

2 lbs butter. charcoal. 

Make a tight dough with water ; roll out i inch thick and 
cut round or square according to fancy. 

CHEESE CRACKERS. 
16 lbs Graham flour. 3 ozs salt. 

2 lbs butter. 1 gal milk, 

lib Sugar. 

Rollout i inch thick; cut with a large round cutter; 
bake in a good hot oven Sr deep yellow. 

CHELSEA BUNS. 
(See Buns.) 

CHELTENHAM CRACKERS. 

16 lbs flour. J gal milk. 

i% sugar. Salt to taste. . 

Roll out thin and cut with regular cutter. 

CHESTERFIELD BISCUIT. 
Same mixture as for Savoy biscuit (cold method) laying 
them out small on papered Vandyke tins, about three bis- 
cuits in a row ; shake a few carraway seeds on the top. 

CHESTNUT ROUT CAKES. 
12 ozs f ugar. 8 ozs Chestnut Farina. 

1 pt hot water. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



42 FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 

Work the Chestnut Farina well, with the hot water over 
a fire; bo:l the sugar to the ball (240*^ Fahr.) ; mix into the 
form of a rather stiff paste ; make into fancy shapes, same 
as for Almond Rout Cakes. 

CHOCOLATE BISCUIT. 

1 lb flour. 2i doz egga. 

2i lbs sugar. 10 ozs grated chocolate. 

Drop the batt«r into little paper cases; dust with the 
finest powdered sugar ; place them on sheet-iron baking tins. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

2 lbs flour. IJ lbs fresh butter. 
2 lbs loaf sugar. 2 doz eggs. 

6 ozs best chocolate, scraped A powdered nutmeg. 

down fine. J oz powdered cinnamon. 

Put the mixture into a buttered tin pan with straight 
sides : bake at least four hours ; when cold, cover with icing. 

CHOCOLATE CAKES. 

2i lbs flour. 2fi>ssugar. 

2 qts yolks of eggs. i pt water. 

Bake in papered pans, about } inch thick ; when done, 
take off paper, let cool and cut in . pieces 1x3 ^inches ; dip 
the pieces in a warm chocolate mixture, made of 8 lbs white 
sugar, 1 pt water and 3 lbs chocolate ; boiled to the thread 
(230° Fahr.) 

CHOCOLATE CBACKERS. 

16 lbs bread or cracker cr u m bs 1} lbs chocolate. 

rubbed through a sieve. 10 ozs allspice. 
5 gals molasses. H^ya saleratus. 

10 lbs butter. 5 qts water. 

5 lbs sugar. 

Make a dough nearly as stiff as bread dough ; cut with 
regular cutter ; when baked, ice with chocolate icing. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 
10 ozs flour. 5 eggs. 

i fi) sugar. i pt milk. 

3 ozs butter. Pinch of ammonia. 

Mix into a smooth, rather thin batter, and bake in jelly 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUIiiE AND MEMORANDA. 4^ 

cake tins, well greased ; when cold, spread chocolate cream 
between each layer. To make the chocolate cream, boil 1 pt 
milk ; stir in 3 ozs grated chocolate, i lb sugar, and about 
1 oz corn starch ; boil 5 minutes ; take from the fire, add 
the yelks of 3 eggs, stirring rapidly; return to the fire to 
set the eggs; add 1 oz butter, and extract vanilla to flavor. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE GLACE. 
Proceed as for Chocolate Cream cake, and finish by 
glazing with the following : Set on the fire in a small sauce- 
pan, 1 gill of water, 6 ozs sugar and 3 ozs grated chocolate ; 
boil until it gets thick and looks velvelty ; take off the fire, 
and add the whites of 2 eggs, without beating; use it hot, 
covering the top and sides of the cake. As it cools, it 
grows firm. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. 
16 lbs flour. 4 doz eggs. 

8 lbs fine chocolate. IJ ozs ammonia. 

20 lbs granulated sugar. 
Make a soft dough with milk ; work off as for Almond 

drops. 

CHOCOLATE FINGERS. 
Use Chocolate cracker mixture, making the dough a little 
thinner ; cut with Finger cutters. 

CHOCOLATE JUMBLES. 

2 ozs chocolate. 6 whites of eggs. 

2 lbs pulverized sugar. 

Dissolve the chocolate in pan over fire ; stir in the sugar; 
add the whites of eggs; lay out in fioured pans and let 
stand one hour before baking. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS, 
(See Macaroons.) 

CHOCOLATE MERINGUES. 

(See Meringues.) 

CHOCOLATE SANDWICH BISCUIT. 

Proceed as for Liqueur White Sandwich biscuit, using 
chocolate icing, in place of glace ici ug. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



44 FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 

CHRISTMAS CAKE. 

l}fi)S flour. 2 eggs, 

i lb melted butter. } oz ginger. 

} lb molasses. i ft raisins. 

\ lb moist sugar. 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 

i pt cream. 1 teaspoon vinegar. 

Bake in fancy moulds ; when done, cover with icing ac- 
cording to fancy. 

CIDER CAKE. 
f ft flour. 3 gills sweet cider, 

f ft) sugar. i oz baking powder. 

Jft butter. Extract nutmeg to flavor. 

Mix as soon as possible and bake in a paper-lined tin. 

CINNAMON BISCOTTINI. 

4 ozs sugar. 4 yolks of eggs. 

6 ozs flour. 1 teaspoon ground cinna- 

2 ozs dissolved butter. mon. 

Lay out with biscuit forcer about 2xi inches upon slightly 
waxed baking sheets ; coat thin with royal icing ; bake a 
slight fawn color. 

CINNAMON BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

CINNAMON CAKE. 
4 ft>8 flour. i doz eggs. 

2 fts butter. 1 gill water. 

4 lbs sugar. Cinnamon to flavor. 

Roll out and cut in strips 2^ inches long; lay on floured 
pans. 

CINNAMON CAKES. 

Same as Ginger cakes (1), using about i teaspoonftil of 
ground cinnamon in place of ginger. 

CINNAMON DROPS. 
Proceed with the mixture as for Queen's drops (1), adding 
about i oz ground cinnamon ; lay them out in the same 
manner. 

CINNAMON FINGERS. 
16 ft)S flour. 2 ozs water. 

8 ft>s granulated sugar. i oz ground cinnamon. 

3 fts butter or lard. i oz ammonia. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 45 

Roll out li inches thick; cut with long finger cutter 
3x} inches. 

CINNAMON JUMBLES. 
16 ]t>s flour. 2 ozs ammonia. 

6 lbs granulated sugar. 2 ozs soda. 

3 lbs butter and lard. i lb cinnamon. 

1 qt molasses. i lb ginj^er. 

1 pt eggs. 2 ozs mixed spices. 

2q^s milk and water. Oil lemon to flavor. 

Proceed as for regular jumbles. 

CINNAMON SNAPS. 

Same mixture as Cinnamon jumbles; cut with a spap 
cutter. 

CINNAMON STICKS. 

1 ft) flour. i doz eggs, the whites only. 

1 % sugar. . A little ground cinnamon. 

1 ft) ground almonds. 

Boll out long and flat about 3 inches wide ; cut 1 inch 
long; ornament with Boyal icing, variously colored; bake 
in a cool oven on floured pans. 

CINNAMON WATEB CAKE. 
Proceed as for liemon Water cake, using about i oz 
ground cinnamon in place of essence of lemon. 

CITBON CAKE. 
To Pound Cake mixture add sufficient quantity of citron, 
cut in thin large pieces; flavor with extract of nutmeg; 
bake carefully in paper-lined shallow flat cake pan. 

CITBON DBOPS. 
Proceed as for Queen's drops, using flnely chopped citron, 
in place of currants. 

CITBON POUND CAKE. 
Spread Pound cake mixture on buttered paper on pan, 
i inch thick; cover with slices of citron, cut very thin; 
put on another layer of cake mixture; a second layer of 
citron ; lastly, a layer of cake mixture ; bake, and when cold 
take off paper; ornament with icing according to fancy. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



46 FOBMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

} lb flour. 1 gill milk. 

I tt> sugar. J lb raisins. 

6 ozs butter. Piuch of ammonia* 

i doz eggs. Cloves to flavor. 

Bake in fiat shallow cake pan. 

CLOVE DROPS. 
Same as Cinnamon drops, adding ground cloves in place 
of cinnamon. 

COCOA COOKIES. 

(See Cookies.) 

COCOANUT BISCUIT. 

4 cocoanuts, grated. 4 lbs powdered sugar. 

Mix with the whites of eggs ; beat the mixture to a soft 
but rather thick paste ; lay out with & biscuit bag on wafer 
paper; bake in a slow oven. 

COCOANUT CAKE (1.) 
1 lb grated cocoanut. i tb flour. 

1 fi) powdered loaf sugar. A powdered nutmeg. 
16 eggs. i pt sweet wine. 

Bake thoroughly in a shallow buttered square tin ; when 
coolf cut into squares; ice with pink icing flavored with 
extract of rose; ice each square of the cake all over, sides 
and top. 

This cake can also be baked in a loaf, or de^ circular 
pan; in which case, ice the whole surface and ornament it. 
It requires a very long baking. 

COCOANUT CAKE (2.) 

2 lbs flour. 2 doz eggs. 

2 lbs sugar. i tb grated cocoanut 

2 lbs butter. 

Lay out on papered pan, 1 J inches thick ; cover with pink 
icing, flavored with extract of rose; cut in squares. 

COCOANUT CAKES. 
1 fi» fresh grated cocoanut. Whites of 8 eggs. 

3 lbs pulverized sugar. 1 lb blanched sweet almonds 
Pound the almonds in a mortar with the whites; stir in 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MKAIORANDA. 47 

well the sugar and cocoanut; form the mixture into small 
balls or steeples ; place on papered baking sheets; as soon 
as the t*)ps begin to brown, take from the oven and let 
stand until cold. 

COCOANUT CAKES— BROWN. 
2}fi)Sgr(ited cocoanut, with 2 lbs brown sugar. 

peel on. 10 ozs flour. 

Mix with water ; lay out very thin on greased pans. 

COCOANUT CAKES— WHITE. 

6 lbs grated cocoanut, peeled. 1 qt water. 

4 lbs white sugar. 

Boil the sugar and water to a blow (230° Fahr.); stir the 
cocoanut in quickly; lay out on pans with a spoon in small 
ovals, about 2 inches across; let them harden. These 
require no further heating and properly belong to the pro- 
vince of the Confectioner. 

COCOANUT CAKES— YELLOW. 
2 lbs cocoanut, peeled and 3 ozs flour. 

grated. 16 yolks of eggs. 

li lbs sugar 8 whites of eggs. 

Spread in ovals about 2 inches across on greased pans; 
bake in a medium oven. 

COCOANUT CONES. 

1 lb powdered sugar. Whites of 6 or 6 eggs. 

i lb grated cocoanut. 

Whip the eggs as for icing, adding the sugar gradually, 
until it will stand alone; beat in the cocoanut ; mould the 
mixture into small cones; pan loosely on buttered paper; 
bake in a very moderate oven. 

COCOANUT CREAM CAKE. 
Proceed as for Cream cake spreading between the 
layers grated cocoanut and pastry cream, in the proportion 
of i pt of the former to 1 pt of the latter. Sift sugar over 
the top. 

COCOANUT DROP CAKE. 
16 lbs flour. 4 qts sour milk. 

7^ fts sugar. i Vb ammonia. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



48 FORMULA AND MEMfj^ANDA. 

4 fi>8 butter and lard. 3 ozs soda. 

3 pts eggs. 3 lbs oocoanut 
Drop with the machine ; or with bag and tube. 

COCOANUT DROP CAKES. 

4 fi)8 powdered sugar. Whites of 16 eggs. 
4fi> grated cocoanut. 

Boil su^ar to the ball (240**Fahr.); granulate it by rubbing 
it against the sides of the pan ; stir in the cocoanut; pour 
upon a clean marble slab and work in about i Vb flour; 
mould into steeples, or otherwise, according to fancy ; place 
loosely on greased pans ; bake in a cool oven. 

COCOANUT DROPS, 
lefts flour. 32 eggs. 

10 Vbs sugar. 1 oz ammonia. 

2^ lbs butter. 3 fi>s grated cocoanut. 

Make an easy dough with milk. 

COCOANUT FlNGEiRS. 

1 ft flour. 1 pt sour milk. 

2 fts sugar. A little rose water. 

i ft butter. 2 teaspoons soda, dissolved 

IJfts grated cocoanut. in boiling water. 

1 doz eggs. 

Cut with Finger cutter. 

COCOANUT HONEY CAKE. 
(See Appendix II.) 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

Same mixture as Cocoanut fingers; cut with Jumble 

cutter. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

(See Macaroons.) 

COCOANUT MERINGUES. 
(See Meringues.) 

COCOANUT MERINGUE CAKE. 
Proceed as for Cream cake; when finished, cover the 
top and sides with a meringue, as follows : 
i lb sugar. i grated cocoanut 

Whites of 6 eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMUL^ AND MEMOBANDA. 49 

Beat the whites to a dry froth ; add the sugar and cocoa- 
nut, mixed, all at once; stir very gently, but mix thor- 
oughly; when the cake is masked, put in a cool oven until 
of a fawn color. 

COCOANUT PUFFS. 

Whites of 3 eggs beat light. 1 oz corn flour. 

J lb powdered sugar. 

Mix and put into a custard saucepan ; set in a pan of 
boiling water, and stir constantly for twenty minutes; take 
oft* the stove and add Jib of dessicated or grated cocoanut; 
when well mixed, drop in teaspoon fuls on buttered paper; 
bake in a very slow oven, as they must not brown at all. 

COCOA PYRAMIDS. 

2 fbs grated cocoanut Whites of 3 or 4 eggs. 

2 fbs powdered sugar. 

Stir over the fire until it becomes sticky; remove, and 
when cold, roll out in the shape of pyramids, about 2 inches 
long; set on greased and floured pans; bake in a moderate 
oven till the tops are brown. 

COCOANUT SNAPS. 
16 lbs flour. 1 doz eggs. 

12 lbs sugar. 2 qts water. 

2} fi>s butter. 7 fts grated cocoanut. 

^ftslard. 2 ozs ammonia. 

COCOANUT STEEPLES. 
1 lb sugar. } doz whites of eggs. 

1 ft grated cocoanut 

Mould with the hand in the shape of small pyramids; 
bake in a slow oven. 

COFFEE BISCUIT (1.) 

1 flt) fine flour. 4 ozs powdered sugar. 

6 ozs Oswego prepared corn. A few carraway seed. 

Form into a stifi paste with a little milk and cream 
(mixed); break smooth; roll out thin; cut with a coflTee- 
biscuit cutter. 
A 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



60 FORMULAS AND MEMORANDA. 



COFFEE BISCUIT (2.) 

16 fba flour. 1 pt milk. 

1 J lbs butter. J oz soda. 

2 lbs sugar. Oil lemon to flavor. 
2 qts eggs. 

Roll thin; cut a little larger than soda biscuit; pan 
loosely that they may cup. 

COFFEE CAKE (1.) 
8 fba flour. 18 eggs. 

2} lbs butter. 2} qts milk. 

2| lbs sugar. 7 to 8 ozs baking powder. 

Boll out about 1} inches thick. 

COFFEE CAKE (2.) 

Jfts flour. i ft stoned raisins, cut in 

fc sugar. two. 

i lb butter. i fc chopped citron. 

8 eggs. Nutmeg and allspice to 

1 gill milk. flavor. 

i pt strong coffee. 
Bake in paper-lined deep cake pan. 

COFFEE CAKE (3.) 
Plain bun mixture with the addition of currants. 

COFFEE CAKE-GERMAN. 
Take bread dough the last time it is to be mixed; spread 
thinly on a buttered tin; let it rise; indent the top deeply 
with the flnger; sift sugar and powdered cinnamon over; 
and pour on a little sweet cream ; bake immediately. 

COFFEE CAKE— GINGER. 
(See Ginger Coffee Cake.) 

COFFEE CAKES. 
Make a Savoy biscuit mixture (hot method) adding a 
tablespoonful of essence of coflee ; lay them on square tins ; 
dust with sugar. 

COFFEE MACAROONS. 

(See Macaroons.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



PORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 51 

COMMON CAKE. 

2 lbs flour. 3 tablespoonsful yeast. 
4 ozs butter or clarified drip- 1 lb currants. 

pings. i oz carraway seed. 

i fb sugar. | oz allspice. 

1 pt milk. 

Set to rise; bake in shallow square cake pans. 

COMPOSITION BREAD. 
Made of ground but undressed wheat. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 
1 ft flour. 6 ozs currants. 

10 ozs sugar. } pt milk. 

4 ozs butter. Pinch of ammonia. 

i doz eggs. Nutmeg and cinnamon to 

6 ozs raisins. flavor. 

Bake in shallow flat cake pan ; when nearly done, strip 
off the paper and ice the bottom with Royal icing. 

CONFEDERATE CAKE. 
1} fts flour. 1 lb butter. 

1 S> sugar. 2 doz eggs. 

Bake in rather small paper-lined square tins ; ornament 
with Royal icing, tinged very slightly with cochineal. 

CONGRESS CRACKERS. 
Use Bermuda biscuit mixture; cut with Congress cracker 
cutter. 

CONGRESS JUMBLES. 
Same as Almond Jumbles (1), only a little larger in size. 

COOKIES. 
1 fc flour. 1 gill sweet cream, 

i fi> sugar. i oz ammonia.' 

I lb butter or lard. Lemon, vanilla, almond, 

3 eggs. etc., to flavor. 

Roll out to the thickness and size of a silver dollar ; glaze 
with an egg and a little water; turn the glazed side on 
granulated sugar. 

This mixture will make all kinds of cookiec^, such as 
aniseed, carraway, etc.; also egg cake; it can be cut and 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



1 



62 FOBMUIi-B AND MEIMOBANDA. 

baked in the shapes of birds, animals, plants, or any pat- 
tern the iancy may suggest. 

COOKIES— ANISEED. 
Same as for cookies, omitting flavor and adding aniseed 
to taste. 

COOKIES- CARRAW AY. 
Same as for cookies, omitting flavor and adding earraway 
seed to taste. 

COOKIES-COCOA. 
} tt> sugar. 2 eggs. 

1% butter. Half a irrated cocoanut. 

Make stifl" enough with flour to roll out and cut. 

COOKIES— CORIANDER. 
Same as for cookies, omitting the flavor and adding 
coriander seed to taste. 

COOKIES— GINGER. 
Same as for cookies, flavoring with equal portions of 
ground ginger, cinnamon and allspice. 

COOKIES— MOLASSES. 
Same as for cookies, using half sugar and half New Or- 
leans molasses for sweetening, and adding ground ginger. 

;, COOKIES-SUGAR. 
4 &s sugar. ^ oz ammonia. 

1 qt sour milk. j| % butter or lard. 
i oz soda. 

Flour to make a dough stifl" enough to roll out and cut. 

CORIANDER COOKIES. 

(See Cookies.) 

CORN BREAD (1.) 

2 qts milk. i oz cream tartar. 
2 ozs butter. i oz saleratus. 

i doz eggs. In* ian meal to make a 

} oz salt. thick batter. 

Put into well greased, shallow pans, and bake in quick 
oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMUKS AND MEMORANDA. 63 

CORN BREAD (2.) 
' 1 lb yellow corn-meal. J oz baking powder. 

i lb wheat flour. 1 gill of molasses, in which 

2 e^gs, well beaten. 1 oz melted butter has 

A little salt. been stirred. 

Make a moderately stiflT batter with milk. 

CORN BREAD (3.) 
1 qt new milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 oz butter. 1 gill yeast. 

2 eggs, well beaten. Indian meal. 

Butter baking tins ; put the butter in, and let stand to rise. 

CORN BREAD (4.) 
8our milk or buttermilk. i gill molasses. 
Soda. Indian meal to make athin 

A little salt. batter. 

No eggs or shortening is needed, if the meal is not too fine. 

CORN BREAD— ESPETONGA. 

3 sweet potatoes. 1 teaspoon ful saleratus. 
• 1 oz butter. 3 gills corn flour. 

1 egg. 3 gills milk. 

Salt to taste. 

Boil the potatoes, rubbing through a colendar ; add the 
butter, saleratus and egg ; beat well and add corn flour and 
milk ; bake in a deep buttered dish ; or in a skillet over the 
fixe with a heated cover over it. 

CORN BREAD— KENTUCKY. 

1 qt milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 ozs butter. 4 eggs, well beaten. 
Corn meal. 

Let the milk come to a boil, and while hot, stir on gradu- 
ally meal to make a thick batter: add butter and salt; stir 
well^ and when cool add the eggs ; drop as buckwheat cakes 
upon a hot griddle. 

CORN BREAD— NEW ORLEANS. 

Jib corn meal. 1 oz lard, 

lb wheat flour. li pts milk. 

1 oz sugar. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoon salt. i oz baking powder. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



54 FORMUIi.£ ANI> MEMORANDA. 

Mix into a moderately stiff batter; pour from the bow) 
into a shallow cake pan. 

CORN BREAD— OWENDAN. 
i lb hot hominy. 1 pt milk. 

1 oz butter. 4 eggs, well beaten* 

1 teaspoon salt i % corn meal. 

The batter should be the thickness of boiled custard; 
bake in a deep buttered pan. 

CORN BREAD-SOUTHERN. 
1 oz butter. 2 eggs, well beaten^. 

i pt milk. 1 tablespoon ginger. 

I pt molasses. i % corn meal. 

Dissolve butter in milk and molasses ; add the other Ib- 
gredients ; beat well ; bake in buttered pans. 

CORN BREAD-STEAMED. 

1 qt buttermilk. 2 ozs lard. 

2 e^gs. 2 ozs flour. 

1 gill molasses. I teaspoon soda. 

Corn meal to make a batter a little thicker than for Johnny 
cake. Steam one hour; then bake slowly one hour 

CORN-CAKES. 
(See Corn GitiDDiiE Cake».> 

CORN-COBS. 
Use African Cracker Mixture; pass through a JumMe 
forcer in the form of a serrated iy>pe ; cut in lengths desired. 

CORN CRUMPETS. 
(See Crumpets.) 

CORN GEMS. 
i fb corn meal. h pt milk. 

i fi) wheat flour. } pt water. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Make a firm batter ; two-thirds fill greased cold gem pans. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES (1.) 

2 qtH sour milk. 1 tablespoon saleratus. 

3 eggs. A little salt, 
i ft) wheat flour. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMUL^ AND MEMORANDA. 55 

Corn meal sufficient to make a rather thin batter ; fry on 
a griddle. 

COPN GRIDDLE CAKES (2.) 
10 ozs corn meal. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

6 ozs flour. 2 eggs. 

1 oz brown sugar. 1 pt milk. 

i teaspoon soda. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES (3.) 

1 pt hot milk. 4 eggs, well beaten. 

2 ozs butter. Corn meal to make a thin 

1 teaspoon salt. batter. 

CORN HILL CRACKERS. 
16 lbs flour. 1^ to 2 ozs saleratus. 

2J lbs butter or lard. 1 oz tartaric acid* 

2j lbs sugar. J oz ammonia. 

i gallon sour milk or butter- 2 to 3 ozs salt. 

milk. 
Break down very fine; cutwithCornhill cutters; or bril- 
liant, or any fancy cutters. 

CORN JOHNNY CAKE. 
Scald 1 pt corn meal ; add a little salt, 1 oz sugar and 1 oz 
melted butter; thin the batter with cold milk; pour 
into buttered tins, and bake in a hot oven until nicely 
browned. Make the batter thin enough, or the cake will 
be hard ; it should be moist, and the crust crisp and tender. 

CORN JOHNNY CAKE— NEW ENGLAND. 
i lb corn meal. 3 eggs. 

i ft) flour. IJ pts milk. 

2 ozs sugar. i teaspoon salt. 

1 oz lard. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Rub in the lard cold; make a firm, smooth batter; pour 
into a square, shallow cake pan. 

CORN MUFFINS (1.) 

i lb corn meal. 2 eggs. 

i lb flour. 1 pt milk. 

1 oz sugar. 3 tablespoon sful of baking 

1 (taspoon salt. powder. 

1 oz lard. 

Mix i li to a batter; and two-thirds fill cold muffin pans, 
carefully greased. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



56 FORMULiE AND MEMOBANDA. 

CORN MUFFINS (2.) 
Prepare in the same manner as muffins (3), using equal 
parts of flour and corn meai in making th« batter. 

CORN MUFFINS WITH FRUIT. 

i lb corn meal. 2 eggs. 

Jib flour. fptmilk. 

1 oz sugar. } pt.of any kind of berries ; 
i teaspoon salt. or stoned fruit, peeled 

2 teaspoons baking powder. and sliced. 
1 oz butter. 

CORN PONES OR PONIES- 
10 ozs yellow corn meal. Salt to taste. 

6 ozs flour. 3 eggs. 

1 pt warm milk. 1 gill molasses. 

i pt yfast. 1 oz melted butter. 

Set a sponge ; when light, stir in the eggs, molasses and 
butter; let stand one hour; bake in Gem pans. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

1 tt> butter. 6 whites of eggs. 

2 lbs sugar. } oz baking powder. 

1 pt milk. 

Corn Starch sufficient to make a batter. Bake in moulds 
of any kind. 

CORN STARCH CRACKERS. 

13 lb& flour. } gal milk. 

6 lbs corn starch. 1 oz ammonia. 

2 lbs lard. Salt to taste. 
2 lbs sugar. 

Wash over with milk; cut round. 

CORNUCOPIA CAKES. 

1 lb flour. 1 lb butter. 

1 lb sugar. i doz eggs. 

Layout like jumbles; put into a cool oven, and as the 
edges begin to brown, take out and roll up on around stick, 
6 to 10 inches long; place on papers in a cool place to 
harden ; with a tube and cornet, flll each end with kiss bat- 
ter; set back in the oven (very cool) that the batter may 
get a slight color on it. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 57 

COSMOPOLITAN CRACKERS. 
Use Corn Hill cracker mixture; cut with special cutters. 

COTTAGE BREAD. 
Roll out two balls of ordinary bread dough ; flatten each 
withtl e handn, uiiu m> one upon the other; docl^ the top 
layer and oake on the oven floor. 

CRACKER DUST. 
Broken and over-baked crackers are generally used, al- 
though some bakers make a cheap grade of crackers especi- 
ally for this purpose ; grind in a Noni>areil mill. 

% CRACK-LE-TEENS. 

Same mixture as for Cream crackers ; boil or steam ; cut 
with Corn-hill cutters. 

CRACKLINGS. 
( See Water Cracklings.) 

CRACKNEL BISBUIT (1.) 
16 lbs flour. If ozs ammonia. 

1 lb sugar. 2} gills water to dissolve 

li %s butter. ammonia. 

3 qts eggs. Oil lemon to flavor. 

Cut with a Butter cutter, scollopped edge ; dip in boiling 
water 1 J minutes ; take them out and put in cold water; 
when cold, spread on cloths upside down to dry; pan loosely. 

CRACKNEL BISCUIT (2.) 
16 lbs flour. 6 ozs carb soda. 

1 lb sugar. i tablespoon of baking pow- 

f lb butter. der. 

6 doz eggs. 3 ozs salt. 

Form into aflrm, smooth paste; put in a cloth forflve 
hours; roll out rather less than J inch thick; stamp with 
leaf or fancy cutters; drop into boiling water and let sim- 
mer until they rise to the surface; then put in cold water; 
remove from this to a cloth ; brush them over with a little 
white of egg, broken up. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



58 FOBMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 

CRACKNELS— OATMEAL. 

i lb very fine oatmeal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

i lb graham flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 pt. milk. 

Mix the oatmeal and milk and let it stand to swell 5 
hours in a oold place ; make a smooth dough ; roll i inch 
thick and cut with any fancy cutter ; lay on greased baking 
tins and wash over with milk. 

CREAM BARS, 
16 lbs flour. 2 qts sour milk. 

5 %8 butter. 2 ozs soda. 

10 lbs sugar. Vanilla flavor. 

3 qts eggs. 

Cut in bars 3x1 inches: wash with chocolate icing if 
desired. 

CREAM CAKE. 
f fi> flour. i doz eggs. 

i lb sugar. | pt milk. 

3 ozs butter. 

Bake in jelly cake tins ; when cold, spread cream (see 
Cream Cakes (1) ) between each layer; ice the top with 
Royal Icing. 

CREAM CAKES (1.) 

1 J lbs flour. 1 fi» lard or butter. 

1 qt water or milk. 26 eggs. 

Boil the water and lard a couple of minutes; stir tho 
flour in quickly; take it from the fire and mix in the eggi*, 
three or four at a time; butter the pans well, and drop with 
a spoon the size wanted ; bake in a hot oven. When baked 
they will be hollow inside; cut them open and fill with 
Pastry Cream, made as follows: 

1 qt milk. 12 ozs sugar. 

4 e^gs. 4 ozs flour. 

Boil until it thickens ; flavor with vanilla, etc 

CREAM CAKES (2.) 
1 lb flour. 2 pts whipped cream. 

1 9t> sugar. 32 eggs. 

Stir the yolks of the eggs and sugar till very light; add 
the whites, (beat stiflT,) the cream, (whipped,) and lastly the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 69 

flour; half fill some fondue paper cases; bake in a mode- 
rate oven. These cakes should only be made a few hours 
before serving. 

CREAM CAKES (3.) 
i ft) sugar. Zest of ten lemops. 

Whites of 1 doz eggs. 

Beat the eggs and add the sugar and flavor ; drop the froth 
on paper laid on tins ; sift sugar plentifully over them ; set 
in a moderate oven, where the froth will rise to just color 
them; put raspberry or any other jam on them, and stick 
two bottoms together; place in a cool oven to dry. 

CREAM CAKES— FROSTED. 
See Frosted Cream Cakes. 

CREAM CRACKERS. 

16 lbs flour. i oz soda. 

i ft) butter. | oz cream tartar. 

H ft)s sugar. 1 ^ill water. 

7 or 8 doz eggs. Oil lemon to flavor. 

2 ozs ammonia. 

Cut and dip in boiling water 1} minutes; take out and 
put in cold water; when cold spread on cloth to dry, upside 
down; pan loosely. 

CREAM JUMBLES. 

16 lbs flour. 18 eggs. 

6| fi>s sugar. 3} ozs ammonia. 

5% butter. 1 pt. milk or water. 

Cut with jumble cutter ; proceed as for Cream Crackers. 

CREAM PILOT BREAD. 
Same as Cream Crackers. Roll out thin and cut double 
the size. 

CREAM PUFFS. 
(See Cream Cakes (1.) 

CREAM PUFFS-BOSTON. 
(See Cream Cakes (1.> 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



60 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

CBEAM TART CAKE. 

8 lbs flour. i doz eggs. 

1 lb butter. 1 gill water. 

i lb sugar. 

Roll out and cut in square blocks ; put in the centre of 
these blocks a spoonful of pastry cream, flavored with va- 
nilla and orange zest ; lap the four corners together; dust 
them over with sugar ; slightly brown them in the oven. 

CREAM TARTAR DOUGHNUTS. 
(See Doughnuts.) 

CREAM WAFERS. 
1 ft flour. 2 doz eggs. 

1% butter. . Cinnamon, etc., to flavor. 

1 Xb sugar. 

Cream butter and work all into a smooth paste; heat a 
wafer-iron ; put in a spoonful of the paste, close the iron, 
bake the wafer and trim off its edge before opening the iron ; 
open the iron and roll the wafer in the form of a cone ; fill 
with whipped cream. 

CRESCENTS. 
(See Vienna Cbescents or Kipfel.) 

CROSS BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

• CRULLERS (1.) 
16 lbs flour. Sozssoda. - 

8 lbs sugar. 3 ozs ammohia. 

2 %s butter. Cinnamon or lemon, etc., to 
IJ pts yolks of eggs. flavor. 

1^ gallons milk. 

Cut with Cruller cutter, or roll in plaits ; fry in hot lard. 

CRULLERS (2.) 
1 lb butter. 2 teaspoons soda. 

It lbs sugar. Salt. 

1 doz eggs. Flavor to suit. 

1 pt milk. Flour to make a dough. 

Roll out i inch thick: cut into fanciful forms, (generally 
three strips braided together, or rings); boil in hot lard ; 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



PORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 61 

when browned on both sides, drain them ; lay them on a 
dish and sprinkle fine sugar on them. 

CRUMPETS (1.) 

2J fts flour. 1 oz German yeast sponge. 

1 qt milk. i tablespoon salt. 

Make a batter as for buns; when mixed smooth and well 
risen, have the griddle ready, hot and slightly greased with 
clarified butter ; place the crumpet tins (greased) on the 
griddle; take up carefully a grevyspoonful of tlie light 
mixture and drop into each tin ; bake sharp over the hot 
plate ; pass the palate knife under and turn them quickly 
over ; brown on the other side, and they will be done in a 
few minutes. 

CRUMPETS (2.) 

2 lbs flour. 3 tablespoons yeast. 

3 eggs, well beaten. A little ealt. 

Make a dough with warm milk and water ; reduce to the 
consistency of butter with warm milk ; set in a warm place 
to rise ; when light pour into buttered tins. 

CRUMPETS— CORN MEAL. 

1 lb com meal. 2 ozs sugar. 

1 qt boiling milk. 2 tablespoons yeast. 

i Vb lard or butter. A little salt. 

Scald the meal with the milk ; let stand until luke-warm ; 
stir in sugar, yeast and salt ; let rise fl ve hours ; add the 
butter, melted ; beat well ; put in greased rings ; set near 
the flre for 15 minutes, before baking. 

CRUMPETS— LONDON. 

IJ fi>s flour. 2 eggs. 

1 pt milk and cream. 1 tablespoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt. Ground cinnamon to flavor; 

i oz sugar. 

Mix into a rather flrm batter; half flll large greased 
muflin rings, on a hot, well greased griddle; bake on one 
side only. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



62 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

CRUMPETS— RICE. 

1 pt milk. J ft well boiled rice. 

} gill yeast. Pinch of soda. 

1 oz white sugar. Salt. 

2 ozs melted butter. Flour to make a good batter. 
Beat well together; set to rise six hours; put in rings; let 

stand 15 minutes before baking. 

CRUSHED WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

J fi> crushed wheat 1 pt milk. 

I Yb ilour. i teaspoon salt. 

1 oz brown sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 egg. 

Boil the crushed wheat in } pt water for one hour; dilute 
with beaten egg and milk ; when cold, mix into a smooth, 
thin batter ; bake on a hot griddle. 

CURRANT BISCUIT 
(See Fruit Biscuit.) 

CURRANT BUNS. 

( See Buns.) 

CURRANT CAKE (1.) 
Same mixture as for Pound cake, adding 2 &s currants ; 
i% lemon peel, chopped fine ; i oz mixed spices. 

CURRANT CAKE (2.) 
1 % flour. 1 doz eggs. 

1 fi> sugar. i fi> currants. 

1 lb butter. 

Lay out IJ inches thick on papered tins; when cold, ice 
with Royal Icing ; mark in long slices }x2 inches. 

CURRANT CAKE— ENGLISH. 
Same as Currant cake (1), except in place of lemon-peel 
and mixed spices, add i% citron, in small thin slices, and 
the rind of an orange, cut in shreds ; flavor with nutmeg. 

CURRANT JELLY CAKE. 
(See Jelly Cake.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUL-E AND MEMORANDA. 63 

CURRANT JUMBLES. 
Same as Carraway Jumbles, omitting the carraway seed 
and substituting currants. 

CUP CAKE. 

} ft flour. } doz eggs. 

i lb sugar. Extract almonds to flavor. 

i tt) butter. 

Bake in well greased cups, or in muffin pans. 

DAMPER (AUSTRALIAN.) 
A cake made from the dough composed of flour, salt and 
water, and baked in the dying embers of a wood fire. The 
dough is laid on a flat stone, covered with a tin plate, and 
and the hot ashes heaped around and over it, care being 
taken not to expose it to over 212° Fahr. 

DELICATE CAKE. 
I tt) flour. i pt milk. 

6 ozs butter. A pinch of ammonia. 

6 oza sugar. Extract peach to flavor. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 
Bake in square cake pan, lined with paper. 

DERBY CAKE. 
1 fb flour. i tt) currants. 

} tt) butter. 2 eggs. 

I tt) sugar. A little lemon ze^'t. 

Form into a paste (with milk if required) ; roll out about 
the thickness of a half dollar; cut with a round cutter. 

DESSERT CAKE. 

1 tt) sugar. Whites of 8 eggs. 

3 ozs ginger. v 

Drop the mixture in sizes of a nutmeg upon buttered 
p^per; bake In a cool oven ; cool them upon the paper and 

serve. 

D AVOLINL 

1 oz gum dragon. 1 dessertspoon ess cinnamon 

1 J fts sifted icing sugar. 1 do ess Jam. ginger. 

After washing the gum, put to soak in a gill of tepid 

water; when soft enough to be easily squeezed, wring 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



64 FOBMUIi^ AND MEMORANDA. 

through a clean, cloth upon a plate; work with the flat- 
tened fist upon a slab, adding gradually the sugar, until the 
paste becomes stiff enough to handle; add essence and 
work in remainder of sugar or more if required ; keep in a 
covered pot. 

To shape the Diavolini, take a piece of paste the size of a 
walnut, roll it with the hands with fine sugar strewn on 
the slab, so as to form it into a rope about i inch tbick ; 
divide with a knife into small dots, and use fine sugar to 
aid in rolling them with the finger against the palm of the 
hand, so as to shape each into the form of a grain of rye or 
barley; drop immediately into a clean, dry sieve, contain- 
ing } inch depth of fine, dry icing sugar; move sieve to 
aud fro to riddle off the sugar ; strew them apart from each 
other, over a sheet of paper on a baking sheet; dry them 
in the screen. Use up all of the paste in this manner ; and 
when all of the Diavolini are thoroughly dry and cold, 
keep them in air tight, stoppered bottles. 

DIABETIC BISCUIT. 
DIABETIC BREAD. 
DIABETIC CAKES. 
Made from pure gluten, the starch having been separated 
from the flour. 

DICE BISCUIT. 
Same as Novelty Snaps. 

DIET BREAD CAKES. 

1 fi» flour. } doz whole eggs. 

1 fi> loaf sugar. J doz yolks of eggs. 

1 gill water. 

Whisk the whole eggs and the yolks thoroughly together; 
heat the sugar and water nearly to boiling ; pour in the 
eggs, then add the flour; pour in papered cake tins and sift 
sugar on top. 

DIET BREAD RUSK. 
Cut Diet Bread Cakes into half inch slices; place them 
on tin plates in a very hot oven, that they may brown 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 65 

quickly; as soon as browned on one side, turn on the otlier. 

DIET CAKE. 

1 ft) flour. 10 ozs almonds, bleached and 
5 ozs butter. cut into shreds. 

lJft)S sugar. Oil lemon to flavor. 

2 doz eggs. 

Boil the sugar, in a little less than a pint of water, to the 
crack (250° Fahr.); stir in the butter; then pour it on the 
eggs, well beaten; continue beating until the mixture is 
cold ; add the flour, almonds, etc ; bake in paper lined, deep 
cake pan. 

DIGESTIVES— CRACKERS. 
(See English Digestives.) 

DIJON GINGERBREAD. 
(See Gingerbread.) 

DINNER ROLLS. 
Ordinary Roll Dough. Roll very thin; cut in 3 inch 
strips; roll these strips up tight, when they should be the 
thickness of a large lead pencil, and as long as can be con- 
veniently laid on a greased baking tin (the longer the rolls 
are when baked the nicer they are)— they need to be baked 
crisp and of not too deep a color. 

. DYSPEPSIA BREAD. 
( See Bran Bkead, Brown Bread, Laxative Bread, 
Norwegian Bread, Etc.) 

DYSPEPSIA CRACKERS. 
See Charcoal Crackers; also Oatmeal Crackers. 

DOMESTIC CAKE. 

5ft>s flour. IJ pts milk. 

2 ft>s sugar. i oz ammonia. 

1 ft) butter. 1 doz eggs. 

}ft>lard. 

Cut J inch thick with a square cutter; pan closely, so 
that they may join; when done, cut in four inch squares. 
5 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



66 FORMUL:*: AND MEMORANDA. 

DOMINOES— CRACKERS. 
16 lbs flour. 1 oz saleratus. 

2| lbs sugar. i oz ammonia. 

If lbs butter. i gal milk. 

Cut with a dominoe cutter. 

DOTS. 
(See DiAVOiiiNi.) 

DOUGHNUTS (1.) 

1 ft butter or lard. 1 gill yeast. 

1 qt milk. 1 oz allspice and cinnamon, 

1 ft sugar. (mixed.) 

6 eggs (well beaten.) Flour to make a stiff batter. 

1 gill wine. 

Let stand to rise ; when quite light, add a teaspoon of salt 
and flour to knead it into rolls about 3 inches long; let the 
rolls stand an hour to rise; fry in hot lard to a light brown ; 
when done, sift sugar upon them. 

The dough may be cut in diamond shapes, in the form 
of oblongs, or other fancy patterns. 

DOUGHNUTS (2.) 
4fts raised bread dough. 2 pts molasses (syrup.) 

I ft butter. 8 eggs, well beaten. 

DOUGHNUTS (3.) 

4 lbs bread dough. 1 ft sugar. 

4 ozs butter. } oz soda. 

Work the butter and sugar into the dough ; set it away 
und let it rise until it is ready to drop down ; dissolve the 
soda in milk or water, and work it well into the dough. 

DOUGHNUTS— CREAM TARTAR (1.) 
1 qt milk. 2J ozs cream tartar. 

1 doz eggs. Ground cinamon to flavor. 

1 lb lard. Flour to make a dough just 

1 lb su^ar. thick enough to roll out. 

1 oz soda. 

DOVER CAKE. 

I ft flour. i doz eggs. 

I ft sugar. Pinch of ammonia. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 67 

ifi>butter« Extract of cinamou and 

i pt milk. orange to flavor. 

Bake in a deep, paper lined cake pan. 



DRIED APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 

apples. i lb seedless ra 

1 pt molasses. | pt sour milk 



1 ft dried apples. } ft seedless raisins 

1 pt molasses. | pt sour milk. 

i ft brown suj^ar. | doz eg^s, well beaten. 



1 oz mixed spices. 2 ozs soda dissolved in hot 
i ft melted butter. water. 

1} fts flour. 

Soak the dried apples over ni^ht; in the morning, drain 
the apples and chop fine; simmer two hours in the molas- 
ses; when cool, add sugar and spice; stir in the butter, 
eggs, sour milk and flour; add the soda, and lastly the 
raisins ; dredge lightly with flour ; stir well and bake im- 
mediately in papered tins. 

DRIED PEACH FRUIT CAKE. 
8ame as Dried Apple Fruit Cake, using peaches in place 
of apples; and in place of mixed spices, flavor with lemon 
or orange zest« 

DROP CAKE (1.) 
8 fts flour. i gal milk. 

4 fts sugar. I lb cream tartar. 

2 fts butter. 2 ozs soda. 

18 eggs. Lemon zest to flavor. 

Drop in spoonfuls in greased baking tins. 

DROP CAKES. 

16 fts flour. i gal milk. 

8 fts sugar. | ft am m on ia. 

2 fts butter. 1^ ozs soda. 

IJfts lard. Oil lemon to flavor. 



J gal eggs. 



DROP CAKES— COCOANUT. 
( See CocoANUT Drop Cakes.) 

DROP CAKES— FRUIT. 
(See Fruit Drop Cakes.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



68 



FOKMUL-S: AND MEMORANDA. 



DROP CAKES— HONEY. 
(See Honey Drop Cakes.) 

DROP CAKES-RYE. 
(See Rye Drop Cakes.) 

DROP CAKES— WHEAT. 
(See Wheat Drop Cakes.) 



DROPS. 
See under appropriate headings, such as: 



Ahnond. 

Butter Scotch 

Celery. 

Chocolate. 

Cinnamon. 

Clove. 

Cocoanut. 



Egg. 

Fruit. 

Golden. 

Lemon. 

Macaroon. 

Naples. 

Nonpareil. 



Orange. 

Queens. 

Savoy. 

Shrewsberry. 

Sponge. 

York. 



DUCHESSE CAKE. 

1 doz eggs. 



1 lb flour. 

Jib butter. Extract of cinamon to fla- 

Ib sugar. vor. 

Bake in shallow square pan ; when done, ornament with 
Royal Icing, etc. 

DUCHESS COUNTY BREAD. 

1 J lbs flour. 3 eggs. 

1 pt water. 2 teaspoons yeast. 

2 ozs butter. Salt to taste. 

Melt the butter in water; add salt, flour and yeast; then 
the eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; mix well 
that it will not adhere to the spoon ; fill buttered pans f 
full ; set away three or four hours to rise ; bake in a mode- 
rate oven, and in the same pans in which the dough has 
risen. 

DUNDEE CAKE. 

1ft) flour. J lemon peel, cut in thin, 

i ft) sugar. small slices. 

I lb butter. J lb currants. 

1 ^ill cream. | lb raisins. 

1 doz eggs Vanilla flavor. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 69 

Pour the batter into a paper lined, shallow square cake 
pan ; sprinkle aim ^nds (coarsely chopped) over the top, be- 
fore baking; or the slices of lemon may be placed on the 
bottom of the tin before the mixture is put in, and when 
baked the cake is turned bottom up. 

DUTCH CAKE. 

4 ozs flour. 1 pt milk. 

i fi) butter. 1 pt yeast. 

i % sugar. 2 ozs carraway seed. 

Make a well in the flour and ^ut in the yeast ; add butter 
And milk, etc., making it into a paste; let it stand a few 
minutes before the flre to rise ; roll in'o thin cakes ; prick 
well with the biscuit docker. 

DUTCH GAUFFRES. 

8 ozs flour. i pt double cream. 

4 ozs sugar. Essence cinnamon. 

EoU out pasteinto the form of long cakes ; bake in French 
OauflTre irons, previously greased ; when done place before a 
fire to keep hot ; serve with syrup. 

DUTCH MACAHOOXS. 

(See Macaroons.) 

ECHAUDES— BEER BISCUIT. 

1 fb flour. 1 oz carb. soda. 

ifi> butter. 1 oz salt. 

i doz eggs. 

Mix thoroughly until very elastic; place on a floured 
plate, covered over, until the next day ; roll out with the 
hands in the form of a long rope about 1} inches thick and 
cut in pieces the size of a walnut ; proceed as for cracknels. 

EGG BISCUIT (1.) 
(See Cracknels and Cream Crackers.) 

EGG BISCUIT (2.) 
16fi»s flour. 2 ozs ammonia. 

6 doz eggs. 1 oz soda. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



70 FOBMUIi^ AND MEMORANDA, 

1} lbs sugar. J 02 tartaric acid. 

i ft butter. 

Roll ort thin and cut round, size of crackers; drop into 
boiling water and proceed ai for cracknels. 

EGG JUMBLES. 
16 fts flour. 2J qts milk. 

7^ fts sugar. 2 ozs ammonia. 

4} lbs butter and lard. 1 oz soda. 

1 qt eggs. Oil lemon to flavor. 

EGG PLUM BISCUIT. 
Proceed as for Peach Surprise biscuit, remembering that 
the cakes must be formed to a long, oval shape ; use egg 
plum or Greengage jam to stick them together, and also ta 
mask them with; glace with glace icing, colored with 
spinach green, and by drying the egg-plum when flnished 
in the screen, the heat will so change the color as to give 
them the semblance of ripe fruit. 

ELECTION CAKE. 

f ft flour. 2 ozs citron. 

I ft sugar. i lemon peel, chopped. 

. 6 ozs butter. i pt milk. 

i doz eggs. Extract of bitter almonds 

1 ft raisins. and vanilla to flavor. 
iXb currants. 

Bake in square tins; cover with icing. 

ELGIN BISCUIT. 

16 fts flour. 1} lbs sugar. 

2\ fts butter. 2 qts water. 

Boll thin ; cut with plain round cutter. 

EMPEROR^S FOOD-ANGEL'S FOOD. 

2 doz whites of eggs. 1 teaspoon cream tartar. 
} ft granulated sugar. Vanilla flavor. 

J ft sifted flour. 

Whisk the eggs to a stiflf froth ; add lightly the sugar^ 
then the flour and flavoring, beating all the while; bake in 
a round cake pan with cone in centre; cover the top with 
icing, colored and flavored as desired. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMUIi^ AND MEMORANDA. 7] 

ENGLISH ARROWROOT CRACKERS. 

(See Arrowroot Crackers (1.) 

ENGLISH BATH CRACKERS. 
(See Bath Crackers.) 

ENGLISH BISCUIT, 

i ft flour. iptmilk. 
J ft corn starch. J oz carraway seed. 

3 ozs sugar. Salt to taste. 

3 ozs lard. 2 ozs currants. 

1 egg. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Roll out i inch thick; cut with round cutter and lay on 

greased baking tins. When taken from the oven, rub over 
with a little butter on a clean piece of linen. 

ENGLISH DIGESTIVES-CRACKERS. 

lefts flour. legg. 

} ft butter. 1 oz ammonia. 

i ft sugar. 

Cut J inch thick with plain milk cutter; pan loosely that 
they may curl on the edges. 

ENGLISH GINGERBREAD. 

(See Gingerbread.) 

ENGLISH MACAROONS. 
(See Macaroons.) 

ENGLISH MILK CRACKERS. 

16 fts flour. 1 i ozs saleratus. 

2 fts butter. li ozs ammonia. 
} ft sugar. 1} ozs salt. 

1} ozs tartaric acid. i gal milk. 

Roll out J inch thick; cut with milk cutter. 

ENGLISH PIC-NICS. 
(See Pic-Nics.) 

ENGLISH MUFFINS. 
Make and bake as for plain muflans; when they are all 
cooked, pull each open in half; toast delicately ; butter them 
well; serve on folded napkin, piled high and very hot. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



7^' FORMUIiiE AND MEMORANDA. 

ENGLISH SHIP BREAD. 
16 fi>8 flour. 2 qts water. 

Keep dough as tight as possible; roll through the ma- 
chine; bake in a bread oven to give it a chance to dry out 
well; cut with round cutter; add no salt or lard. 

ENGLISH SODA CRACKERS. 
16 &>s flour. li^ ozs tartaric acid. 

3 lbs butter. l| ozs salt. 
i lb sugar. i gal water. 
1} ozs saleratus. 

Roll out I inch thick and cut with large sized soda cutter. 

ENGLISH TAVERN CRACKERS. 
Same mixture as for English Bath crackers; add carra- 
way seed; roll the dough thinner; cut double size. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CRACKERS. 
16 lbs flour. 6 lbs sugar. 

4 lbs butter. 3 doz eggs. 

Cut with an English Walnut cutter ; when baked, dampen 
the bottoms with water, or the whites of eggs beaten up, 
with a l.ttle sugar in ; and stick two together* 

EXTRA JUMBLES. 

1 tt) butter. 4 eggs. 

1 K) sugar. A little brandy. 

1} ft)S flour. 

Roll the cakes in powdered sugar; lay them on flat but- 
tered tins. 

EXTRA SEED CAKE. 
(See Seed Cake.) 

FANCY BREAD. 

2J lb flour. 
Add to this the sponge (see buns 1) of 2ozs German Yeast ; 
Jft). fresh melted butter, a little salt, and luke-warm water 
sufficient to form a dough; knead it well when proved; 
make it into twists, or any shapes according to fancy; put 
upon slightly buttered baking sheets; let them stand to 
prove a little before baking ; brush them over slightly with 
milk and egg. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 73 

FANCY CAKES. 
1 ft flour. 1 doz eggs, beat up stiflf. 

1 lb sugar. Lemon zest to flavor. 

Bake on sheets, li inches thick; when done, cut in dia- 
monds, squares, crescents, etc., etc.; ornament with kiss 
batter in the form of pears and other fruits, etc.; coloring 
with appropriate colorings; dry in the oven; dip them 
finally in transparent icing. 

Fancy crackers. 

16 fts flour. 2 qts water. 

3 lbs sugar. IJozssoda. 

2 lbs lard. i oz tartaric acid. 
Make a tight dough ; cut with nic-nac cutter. 

FANCY ICED CRACKERS. 
Same as Fancy Crackers ; glaze with cracker icing. 

FANCY LEMON CRACKERS. 
Same as Fancy Crackers ; flavor strongly with oil lemon. 

FANCY MILK CRACKERS. 

1 6 fi)S flour. 1 J fts sugar. 

3J lbs butter. 1} qts water. 

Jpteggs. 
Cut with fancy cutters. 

FANTASTIC CRACKERS. 
16 tt)S flour. } gal water. 

3 fi>s sugar. 1 oz am monia. 
3i lbs butter and lard. 1 oz soda. 

1 oz salt. 

Cut with fancy cutters. 

FARINA CRACKERS. 
Same as Arrowroot Crackers; substituting Farina in 
place of Arrowroot. 

FEDERAL CAKE. 
1 lb sugar. 10 eggs 

1 lb flour. i oz ammonia. 

Whisk eggs and sugar as for pound cake; mix in flour 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



74 FOBMITLJB AND MEMOBANDA. 

and ammonia; bake in muffin rings in a moderate oven ; 
ice them on the bottom side. 

FIG CAKE. 

8 eggs. 6 ozs flour. 

i % pulverized sugar. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

I teaspoonful soda. 

Beat sugar and eggs to a cream ; stir in the flour, cream 
tartar and soda; bake in a square tin o. sheet; — beat the 
whites of 2 eggs with sufficient of the flnest powdered white 
sugar and a few drops of lemon juice to make a stiflT icing ; 
chop up rather flne i doz. figs, a few raisins, a little citron; 
i a small lemon ; stir and mix these into the icing, and 
spread upon the cake, and roll up or bake the cake on jelly- 
cake pans; spread a layer of the mixture on one cake, and 
cover with another ; sieve fine sugar over the top. 

FILBERT BISCUIT. 
Almond Rout Cake Paste. 
Roll the paste out, not too thin ; cut into lengths 3 inches 
wide with a vandyke cutter ; cut these bands into pieces 2 
inches in width ; roll each piece up, introducing a small 
blanched almond into each of the van dyked ends ; press 
the centre of the paste together with the finger and thumb 
when it will have the appearance of two filberts, the van- 
dykes forming the leaves, and the almonds, partly hurried 
in the centre, the nut itself ; press two of these double nuts 
together in the centre, and it will then form a bunch of 
four nuts ; then stick a single nut on the top, and the bunch 
will now consist of five nuts. Proceed thus with all ; lay 
them on cartridge paper and bake next day in a moderate 
oven. 

FILBERT MACAROONS. 
(See Macaboons.) 

FINGER BISCUIT. (Plain.) 
Proceed with mixture as for Nelson Balls, but do not 
make the paste quite so stifiT; roll and cut in 5 inch lengths; 
place evenly on a baking sheet ; bake in a hot oven, and set 
aside to dry. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FORMULAS AND MEMORANDA. 76 

FINGERS. 
See under appropriate headings, such as: 
Alexandra. Lady. 

Almond. Oswego. 

Banana. Scotch. 

Chocolate. Sponge. 

Cocoanut Straw bery. 

Ginger. Vienna. 

Etc. Etc. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

2oz8 butter. 4 eggs well beaten. 

1 qt milk. J teacup yeast. 

1 teaspoon salt. Flour to make a stiff batter. 

Let it rise over night; bake on a hot griddle. 

FLEETWOOD CRACKERS. 
Use Corn Hill Cracker mixture ; cut with prepared cut- 
ters. 

FLEMISH GAUFFRES. 

12 ozs flour. 1 oz German Yeast. 

6 oz butter. 1 glass kirschenwasser. 

6 eggs. i oz salt. 

1 pt milk. Zest of two oranges. 

Dissolve yeast in a spoonful of hot water; work well and 
let stand to rise about f hour, covered with a cloth ; bake in 
gSiuftre irons, greased with clarified butter; bake golden 
brown color; cut in squares and sprinkle over with sugar. 

FLORAL CRACKERS. 

lefts flour. 1 J lbs butter. 

8 lbs sugar. 3ptswater. 

Oil lemon and bitter al- 
monds to flavor. 
Cut out in floral blocks ; dust with flne sugar. 

FLORENCE BISCUIT. 
Prepare a number of rather thick Savoy biscuit drops 
about the size of large apricots; hollow these out similar to 
walnut shells ; flll them with whipped cream flavored with 
vanilla; stick two of them together; wash them over en- 
tirely with chocolate icing; and as they are turned out of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



76 FORMUL-E AND MEMORANDA. 

band, lay them upon a wire drainer, and when all are com- 
pleted, dry them for a few minutes in the screen. 

FOSNOUGHS. 
Same as Doughnuts made from bread dough. 

FRA8CATI CROQU ANTES. 

8 ozs Hour. 2 whole eggs. 

6 ozs sugar. 3 yolks. 

2 ozs grd almonds. i oz aniseed. 

Whisk eggs, almonds and sugar ; add flour and aniseed ; 
roll the paste in the form of a long thick rope; cut in pieces 
the size of a walnut, roll into oval balls and place in rows 
upon a buttered baking sheet, press the back of a knife 
across their surfaces to effect a slight incision, egg over; 
sprinkle rough grained or granite sugar over them. 

FRENCH BREAD. 

From fine flour ; the better kinds and for those intended 
for rolls, and small fancy bread, the sponge and dough is 
commonly wetted with milk and water, and occasionly a 
very little butter is added. 

When the loaves or small fancy loaves have lain in a quick 
oven for about J hour, turn them on the other side for about 
i hour longer, then take them out and chip them with a 
knife, which will make them look spongy, and of a flne 
yellow ; whereas rasping takes off the flne color, and renders 
their looks less inviting. 

FRENCH BREAD <1.)*^ 

Mix well together 1 gill good strong yeast, with } ft., flour, 
so that it niakes a rather stiff paste; knead so that you 
shape it like a ball; make two cuts with a knife in the top, 
across and about \ of an inch deep ; then place the paste in 
a bowl of tepid water (milk warm), the cuts upward. 

After it has been in the water for a few minutes it will 
float and swell ; let it float about two minutes, when take 
off and use. 

Put 6 ozs., flour on the paste board, and make a hole in 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 77 

middle; put into it the yeast as prepared above, tepid water 
enough to make an ordinary dough and salt to taste. 

Knead well; shape according to fancy; put in a warm 
place to rise (78° Fahr.) ; bake. It requires about six (6) 
hours to rise. 

FRENCH BREAD (2.) 

Wash and clean thoroughly J lb. potatoes, and then steam 
them with the skins on ; mash them well with J pt, flour, 
about i pt. tepid water and J oz. salt ; when thoroughly 
mixed put away in a warm place (78° Fahr.) for one hour. 

Then add and mix with it J pt. good yeast, and put away 
in the same place, about 9 hours. It may take a little longer 
than 9 hours or a little less, but it is very easy to know in 
this way ;— after a while it will slowly and gradually (foam) 
for some time and then begin to fail ; as soon as it begins to 
fall, mix a little tepid water with it and strain through a 
seive; throw away potato skins and eyes; mix what is 
strained with 2 lbs. flour and tepid water enough to make an 
ordinary dough. 

Put it away again in the same place until it cracks on the 
top, which will take place in about an hour. 

Then put 6tt»s. flour on the paste-board, and make a hole 
in the middle; put into it a little tepid water and dough 
when cracked ; knead the whole well with water enough to 
make an ordinary dough, salt to taste. 

To knead it well, it is necessary to raise the dough, or part 
of it, and then throw it back on the paste^board with force. 
The more the dough is kneaded the lighter the bread. 
Then shape the loaves, let rise, and bake in a quick oven. 

FRENCH BREAD.— To Shape, 
Divide the dough, as soon as kneaded, in as many parts 
as you want loaves; then knead each part, one after the 
other, so as to make a kind of ball; then, by rolling and 
pulling it, give it an elongated, sausage-like shape. 

A pound loaf can be made 1} ft. long, as well as 4 inches; 
it will be narrower and thiner, and will have more crust. 

When the dough is thus elongated, take a round t^tick, or 
a small rolling pin, place it on the top of the dough, right 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



78 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

on the middle, lengthwise, and then press on it and roll 
just a little, to and fro, so as to make a kind of furrow in 
the middle. 

Have a towel well dusted with flour; place the dough on 
it upside down, that is, the furrowed side under; let rise as 
ordinary bread ; turn it into a pan, put so that the furrowed 
side will be up (the side that was down in rising must be 
up in baking); dust the furrows well with rye flour, to pre- 
vent the paste from closing, so that the top of the loaf will 
be concave instead of convex when baked. 

French Bread may be shaped like other bread, round or 
square. 

Bolls, or rather French Bolls, as they are generally 
called, are mad^, shaped and baked in the same way. 

FBENCH BBEAD (3). 

Steam i Vb, potatoes, and mash them well : then mix them 
immediately, and while hot, with about 1 pt. flour, 1 qt 
water and i pt good, strong yeast. 

Leave the mixture about 6 hours in a rather warm place ; 
then strain through a sieve, pressing the potato skins so as 
to squeese all the liquor out of them. 

Immediately add to the strained mixture flour enough to 
make ordinary dough, which re-knead a little, and let it 
stand as it is for 1-2J hours, according to the temperature. 
Knead then with it ^.bout 6 lbs. flour, salt to taste, and 
tepid water to make an ordinary dough, and leave it thus 
2 hours; then shape as above; put it to rise in the same 
way also (it will take from 1-2 hours, according to tem- 
perature); dust with rye flour and bake. 

FBENCH BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

FBENCH CAKE. 

1 ft flour. 1 gill wine, 
ifc sugar. 1 " brandy. 

6 ozs butter. 6 ozs seeded raisins. 

2 doz eggs. 4 ozs citron. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 79 

1 gill cream. 2 ozs blanched almonds, 

Extracts almonds and nut> chopped. 

meg to flavor. 
Bake in square paper-lined cake pans. 

FRENCH CREAM CAKES. 

10 eggs. 1 ft sugar. 

Beat as for kisses ; lay out with a lady-finger bag ; raise 
them up to a point about 1^ inches; sift sugar over them 
and bake. 

FRENCH GAUFFRES. 

9 ozs flour. Spoonful vanilla sugar. 

4 ozs sifted sugar. Pinch salt. 

8 eggs. Wineglassful noyeau. 

Pint whipped cream. 

Mix thoroughly flour, salt, sugar, vanilla, noyeau, yolks; 
add whites and whipped cream; bake of light color in 
gauffire irons. 

FRENCH GINGERBREAD. 

(See GlNQERBREAD.) 

FRENCH MACAROONS. 
(See Macaroons.) 

FRENCH MUFFINS. 

} ft> flour. i doz eggs. 

1 pt honey. } pt cream. 

2 ozs butter. l teaspoon salt 
Pinch of ammonia. 

Mix smoothly into a batter as for Pound Cake; about 
half fill sponge cake tins, cold, and carefully greased. 

FRENCH PUFFS. 
Use same batter as for Cream Cakes (1), and flavor with 
vanilla; drop with a spoon, pieces the size of a walnut, in 
a kettle of hot lard ; when done, take out with a skimmer; 
let them drain; split them in the middle with a sharp 
knife; put currant jelly inside, and sugar them over the 
top; to be eaten warm. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



80 FORMTJLJE AND MEMORANDA. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 
French Bread dough. 
Divide it into pieces the size of an egg^ and each piece 
in half, which form into the appearance of short, thick 
rolls, tapering sharply at each end ; put two of the pieces 
together, side by side, pinching the ends together a little; 
lay out on greased baking tins ; wash over with milk. 

FRENCH ROUT CAKES. 

lib ground rice. Jib sweet almonds. 

6 lbs sugar. | lb bitter al monds. 

Whites of 16 eggs. 

Put almonds, sugar and rice through a sieve; beat up 
with the eggs to a stiff froth ; drop on paper about the size 
of walnuts, or lay out in fancy shapes. 

FRENCH SOUP BREAD. 
Made from fine, wheat flour; use double the quantity of 
salt; bake in thin loaves so as to be nearly all crust, by 
which means it becomes more soluable in hot soup. 

FRENCH TWIST. 
Same as Buns (with yeast), only they are plaited as a 
twist, and have no sugar on them. 

FRENCH WAFERS. 
8 ozs flour. Pinch salt. 

8 ozs sifted sugar. Wineglass brandy. 

Tablespoon vanilla sugar. 4 whites of eggs, 
i pt single cream. 
Bake and curl on wooden pillars or rollers 

FRESH FRUIT CAKE. 
( See Fruit Cake— Fresh.) 

FRIED CAKES. 
Same as doughnuts. 

FRIED PIES. 
Take ordinary doughnut dough; roll out thin pieces 
about the size of a walnut; wet around the edges; put 
stewed apples or other fruit in the centre; double over; 
press the edges down and trim with a cutter to desired size; 
fry in hot lard. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMUIiJS AND MEMORANDA 81 

FBOSTED CBEAM CRACKERS. 

1 6 ft»s flour. li lbs lard. 

1 gal molasses. i fi> soda. 

1^ ozs salt. 

If the flour is strong, use more molasses ; make a soft 
dough and let it lay for 3 or 4 hours; heat the molasses in 
winter, and in summer have it a little warm ; cover with 
cracker icing. 

FRUIT BISCUIT (1). 

16 tt»s flour. 2tt» sugar. . * 

2ilbs butter; or half lard, in 1} ozs ammonia, 

which case use 1} ozs 2qtswater. 

salt. 5-7 lbs currants. 

FRUIT BISCUIT (2). 

16 lbs flour. 1} ozs saleratus. 

li S>s sugar. 2| qts sour milk. 

l| fi>s lard. 8 fcs currants. 

Roll out a little thinner than for Sodas ; cut with cutter 
half the size ; they may be covered with chocolate or other 
cracker icings. 

FRUIT CAKE (1). 

IJ ft>s white sugar. 1^ lbs raisins. 

lib butter. l| lbs currants. 

1 doz eggs. 1 % citron, cut in small 

1} lbs flour. pieces. 

Lemon zest to flavor. 

FRUIT CAKE (2). 

1 % Pound Cake dough. f S» raisins. 

1 ft currants. i % citron. 

Bake in cake pans. 

FRUIT CAKE— BLACK. 

1} !b brown sugar. 2 J fi>s flour. 

lfi> butter. 2^ lbs raisins. 

12 eggs. 2 lbs currants. 

1 giU molasses. ifi> citron. 

1 gill brandy. 2 nutmegs, grated. 

ioz oinuamon. 
6 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



S2 FOBMULJE AND MEMORANDA. 

FRUIT CAKE— FRESH. 

i fi> flour. i pt ripe, red currants. 

i fi> butter. i pt raspberries. 

10 ozs sugar. | pt sliced canned peaches, 

^doz egKS. i pt milk. 

Pinch of soda. 
Bake in paper-lined shallow cake pans. » 

FRUIT CAKE— HONEY. 
See Honey Fruit Cake. 

FRUIT CAKE— SUGAR TOP. 

16 ft>s flour. 6 ozs amnumia. 

7} fi»s sugar. 3 ozs soda. 

4| S»s butter and lard. 3 qts milk. 

4|fi»s currants. 1 pt molasses. 

6 pints eggs. 10 ozs mixed ground spices. 

Bake in any shape desired; cover with Cracker or Boyal 
icing. 

FRUIT CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Any fruit cake mixture; wash with chocolate transpar- 
ent icing. 

FRUIT DROPS. 

Same mixture as Brighton Crackers, only a little slacker; 
add, also, 2-3 fi>s. currants; work up in nut shape; pan 
loosely ; bake in a steady oven. 

FRUIT DROP CAKE. 

16 fcs flour ( strong white 3 pts eggs. 

wheat). 3 qts sour milk. 

4 lbs butter and lard. i fi> ammonia. 

7J lbs powdered sugar. | oz soda. 

5-6fi>s currauts and raisins. 
If milk is not sour, use tartaric acid. 

FRUIT MUFFINS. 
(See CoBN Muffins with Fruit.) 

GALETTE. 
1 lb best flour. 1 gill water, 

f % butter. Pinch salt and sugar. 

Knead well ; sprinkle over by degrees } gill water, con- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



PORMUIiJE AND MEMORANDA. 83 

tinuiDg to knead all the time with the palm of the hand; 
when smooth, make into a hall and let lie for one hour; 
then roll J inch thick ; mark the edges as for Scotch Short- 
bread ; egg the top and score in the form of diamonds ; bake 
In a quick oven until elastic under the pressure of the 
finger. 

GAUFFBES. 

1 fi> flour. 1 fit) powdered sugar. 

i pt fresh cream. 1 gill orange flower water. 

Mix flour and cream; stir in gradually the sugar, adding 
the flavor ; bring to the consistency of very fine friters, 
with a little warm cream. Heat the gauflTre irons on both 
sides over a wood fire; grease them evenly with fresh but- 
ter ; put about a spoonful and a half of the paste into each 
iron ; shut them up and cook the gaufiTres on both sides till 
nearly colored ; while still hot, roll them over and keep 
them in a dry place. 

GAUFFRES— ALMOND. 

S ozs almonds, either chop- 2 or 3 eggs. 

ped or shred very fine. J oz candied orange flow- • 

4 ozs^ sifted sugar. ers, or a few drops of or- 

Large tabi^^poonful flour. ange flower water. 

Pinch salt. 

Incorporate lightly into a species of batter; spread with 
a fork upon a thinly waxed baking sheet ( a very clean bak- 
ing sheet heated flrst, and theii. rubbed over thioly with 
white wax, about the thickness of a p^nny piece ; put in the 
oven (slow heat), and when about half baked, remove, 
stamp the gaufiTres with a circular tin cutt^^ measuring 2^ 
inches in diameter ; when all are so stamped out, slip them 
back into. the oven for a minute or two to flnish baking 
them of a very light color ; then stand before the oven, and 
as each round of gauflres is detached, with the aid of an 
assistant, fold them around a thick-pointed mandril, upon 
which to give them a cornucopia shape. Keep in a dry, 
not hot, place; when served, fill with whipped cream or 
red strawberry jelly. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



84 FORMUli^ AND MEMOKANDA. 

GAUFFRES— DUTCH. 
(See Dutch Gauffbes.) 

GAUFFRES— FLEMISH. 
(See Flemish Gauffbes.) 

GAUFFRES— FRENCH. 
(See Fbench Gauffbes.) 

GEM BISCUIT. 
1 lb flour. i oz butter. 

} lb corn meal. A little salt. 

i pi milk. } oz ammoDia. 

Cut with a email oval cutter; Wash over with milk ; bake 
in a hot oven. 

GEM CAKE. 
Use Pound Cake mixture; flavor with extract of rose; 
and bake in gem pans. 

GEM JUMBLES. 
16 ft)S flour. 1 qt eggs. 

3 lbs sugar. i lb each cinnamon and gin- 

1 gal molasses. ger. 

2 lbs butter. ^ lb soda. 
1 q t water. 

GEM CRACKERS. 
16 fba flour. 4 ozs ammonia. 

5} fi>s corn meal. 1 lb butter, 

3 ozs salt 1 gal milk. 

Cut with small oval cutter ; wash over with milk before 
baking. 

GEMS— CORN. 
( See CoBN Gems.) 

GEMS— CRACKERS. 
16S>s flour. 1} ozs saleratus. 

If S>s sugar. } oz tartaric acid* 

It lbs butter and lard. l oz ammonia. 

i gal milk. 

GEMS-GRAHAM. 
( See Graham Gems.) 

GEMS-GRAHAM WATER. 
(See Gbaham Wateb Gems.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUT.JF. AND MEMORANDA. 85 

GEMS MIXED. 
1 ft graham flour. J gal milk or water. 

1 fc corn meal. Salt to taste. 

1 ft) rye flour. } oz baking powder. 

1 ft) buckwheat. 

Mix into a rather thin batter ; little more than half fill 
cold, well greased gem pans ; bake in a hot oven. 

GENEVA CAKE. 

1 lb potato flour. 2 doz eggs. 

1 ft» best white flour. } gill cream. 

2ft>s sugar. A little vauilla sugar. 

Stir the yolks and sugar very light ; mix in the cream 
and vanilla sugar ; beat up the -whites stiff, and mix in 
lightly, adding the flour; layout in little square buttered 
Uns, with three flUets of alnK>nds on the 'op of each bis- 
cuit ; dust them slightly with sugar ; bake in a mpderate 
oven. 

GENEVA TART. 

Lay out three rounds of sponge cake mixture, one inch 
thick; bake in moderate heat; when done place custard, 
flavored with vanilla, between the layers ; one on top of the 
other; cover the top layer with pink icing. 

GENEVA GRIDDLE CAKES. 
12 ozs flour. 2 ozs butter. 

4 ozs sugar. 4 eggs. 

i teaspoon salt i pt milk. 

li teaspoons baking powder. 

Bake on a good hot griddle ; as soon as brown on one 
side, which will be quickly, turn at once, and brown on the 
other side ; have a buttered baking tin, and as fast as they 
are browned, lay them on it and spread raspberry jam over 
them, then proceed to bake more, which lay on the others 
already done. Repeat this when you have used jam twice, 
then bake another batch which you use to cover them ; sift 
sugar plentifully over them, and place in a moderate oven 
to finish baking. 

Fresh strawberries, etc., or canned peaches, may also be 
used, in place of raspberry jam. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



86 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

GENOA CAKE, 
1 lb flour. 1 qt yolks of eggs. 

1 Jibs sugar. 18 whites of eggs, beateD 

12 ozs ground almonds. stifT. 

Proceed as for Royal Hearts, only putting the mixture 
into a square buttered baking tin ; bake in a moderate oven ; 
when cold, cut in small squares. To be dished with other 
biscuit. 

GENOESE PASTE. 

1 lb flour. 8 eggs. 

1 lb sifted sugar. 1 gill brandy. 

1 lb butter. Zest of 2 oranges or lemons. 

Mix as for pound cake ; spread on a baking sheet lined 
with thin buttered paper: the thickness of the Genoese 
depends entirely on the purpose for which it may be re- 
quired 'f in any case it must be baked of a light color* 

GERMAN BISCUIT. 

1 fi> flour. 2 ozs orange zest. 

5 eggs. li ozs soda. 

A little salt. 

Work with the hand on a slab until the mixture becomes 
elastic; put it by in a cool place, covered over, for two 
hours ; then divide the paste into small ropes 2 inches long; 
wet the edge to form them into rings, and when formed, 
drop them carefully into boiling water ; allow them to boil 
gently until they float on the top ; then lift them out care- 
fully with a skimmer into cold water to steep for two hours; 
drain and place them on a baking sheet; egg over slightly ^ 
bake in a quick oven. 

GERMAN BOLIVER CAKE. 
(See BoLiVER Cake.) 

GERMAM BREAD. 
(See Leavened Bread, Schwarz Brod, Era) 

GERNAN BUNS^ 
(See Buns.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMUL^ AND MEMORANDA. 87 

GERMAN CAKE. 

Ifc flour. J ft each currants and 

7 ozs butter. raisins. 

6 ozs sugar. } pt milk. 

i oz bitter almonds. 1 gill yeast. 

2 ozs sweet almonds. Rose water, mace and wine 

1 or 2 eggs. to flavor. 

2 ozs citron cut fine. 

After rising, make into shapes according to fancy; bake 
in a medium oven. 

GERMAN CAKE. 
(See Almond Cake.) 

GERMAN HEART CAKE. 
1 % flour. 1 ft currants. 

1 ft sugar. J ft citron, cut in long nar- 

1ft bu utter. row slices. 

1 doz eggs. i pt white wine. 

Cream the butter; beat yolks and whites separately ; bake 
in small molds in a quick oven. 

GERMAN HONEY CAKE. 
(See Honey Cake.) 

GERMAN KOUGLAUFF. 
4 fts flour. i ft poun ded sugar. 

2J lbs butter. 1 oz powdered cinnamon. 

16 whole eggs. 1 oz lemou zest. 

16 yolks. 1 oz s^alt. 

2J ozs German yeast. 1 pt cream. 

Cream the butter ; mix the other ingredients gradually ex- 
cept a portion of the flour aud'eggs, and the cream and yeast; 
after working, make a well in the center and add the yeast 
dissolved in the cream ; work the whole thoroughly ; pour 
into a large buttered mould; split about J fts., Jordan al- 
monds, and place them round the inside of the mould in 
close order; bake in a medium oven ; as soon as turned out 
of mould, shake powdered sugar and cinnamon over it. 

GERMAN MACAROONS. 
(See Macaroons.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



88 FORMULAS AND MEMORANDA. 

GEBMAN PUFFS. 
J ft flour. J pint cream. 

2 ozs sugar. 2 ozs sultana raisins. 

3 ozs butter. led. i gill rum. 

2 ozs sweet almonds, blanch- A few drops extract bitter 
A pincli salt and ammonia. almonds. 
6 eggs. 

Mix into a smooth batter as for pound cake; fill about two- 
thirds full well greased cups ; bake in a fairly hot oven. 

GERMAN ROLLS. 
Make a sponge (See Buns) of 2 ozs. German Yeast; add 
this to 3 lbs. flour, J ft. butter, 7 eggs and milk to form into 
an elastic dough ; prove it in the usual manner ; mould into 
neat smooth rolls ; place on a baking sheet ; prove; egg them 
.over ; bake in a sharp oven. 

GERMAN TEA CAKE. 

2 fts flour. 1 lb raisins. 

i ft sugar. The zest of one lemon, to- 

|ft butter. gether with the juice. 

i doz eggs. 1 gill yeast. 

I pt water. 

Set a sponge with yeast, water and a portion of flour, let- 
ting it stand three hours; add the other ingredients, the 
whites of the eggs being beat up, and the butter melted ; 
before cnaking it into dough, put in Turkshead mould and 
let it stand an hour; then bake. 

GERMAN UNFERMENTED BREAD. 

1 ft) flour. Salt to taste. 

1} ozs sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 oz Jard. 1 egg. 

1 pt water. 

Mix into a smooth dough ; form into the shape of a loaf; 
don't handle much, but get it into a greased square tin ; 
bake in a steady oven. 

GERMAN WAFFLES. 
1 ft flour. 2 ozs lard. 

i teaspoon salt. Rind of 1 lemon, grated. 

3 ozs sugar. 4 eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 89 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 pt cream. 
Cinnamon to flavor. 

Serve with sugar flavored with cream. 

GINGER ALMONDS. 
(See Almond Gingers.) 

GINGER BISCUIT. 

JRflour. idozeggs. 

6 ozs sugar. 1 gill milk. 

J lb butter. Extract ginger to flavor. 

Pinch soda. 

Mix into a rather firm dough ; cut with a jumble cutter ; 
roll in coarse sugar and powdered cinnamon ; bake in but- 
tered tins in a quick oven. 

GINGERBREAD— BOSTON. 

16 lbs flour. 5 ozs ground ginger. 

9 fi>s sugar. 5 pts milk. 

5 tt>s butter. 3 ozs soda. 

3 doz eggs. 6 ozs cream tartar. 
Bake in deep square pans. 

GINGERBREAD CAKES. 

1} lbs flour. fBb molasses. 

1 lb butter. 2 ozs ground ginger. 

J ft) sugar. 1 oz mixed spices. 

8 eggs. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cream the butter; add sugar, then the eggs, one at a time ; 
stir in the molasses with the spices, lastly the flour and bak- 
ing powder ; bake in round papered hoops, half fllled ; bake 
in a moderate oven. 

GINGERBREAD— CELTIC. 
16 lbs flour. J oz cream tartar. 

10 lbs molasses. 1 oz ginger. 

3 lbs orange peel, cut flne. J oz mace. 
IJ lbs butter. } oz nutmeg. 

3 o^s salaratus. 1 oz allspice. 

Bake about 3 inches thick on papered nans ; ice on top 
with brandy water ; mark in squares. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



1 



90 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

GINGERBREAD-DIJON. 
l^&s rye flour. ifb candied orange peel, or 

i fh flour. citron , chopped fine, 

lib pure strained honey. 1 oz ground ginger. 

Make into a stiff, compact dough; cut into cakes of any 
fancy shapes. 

GINGERBREAD— DR. COLQUHOUN'S METHOD. 

1 ft) flour. i oz tartaric acid. 

i ]b molasses. i oz ground ginger. 

i lb raw sugar. i oz ground cinnamon. 

2 ozs butter. ^ 1 oz ground nutmeg. 
i oz carbonate magnesia. 

Mix thoroughly the magnesia and flour; pour into the 
flour all at once, the butter (melted), the molasses, etc., 
and the acid dissolved in a little water ; knead into a consist- 
ent dough ; set aside from i to one hour, and bake at once. 

GINGERBREAD— ENGLISH. 

1 J fi>s flour. 2 ozs ground ginger. 

8 ozs honey. 2 ozs ground allspice. 

8 ozs molasses. 1 oz soda. 

Work into an elastic paste ; put into square tins to the 
thickness of 2 inches square ; allow it to stand in a moderate 
warmth for an hour ; brush over with eggs ; when done and 
cold, cut into J inch slices. 

GINGERBREAD— FRENCH. 

IJIbs flour. 1 oz ground ginger. 

1 lb molasses. i oz ground cloves. 
i oz ground aniseed. 

Work into au elastic paste; allow to rest until next day ; 
roll out i inch thick ; stamp and cut in fancy patterns ; egg 
over. 

GINGERBREAD— GENEVA. 
6 ft)S molasses. J lb carraway seed. 

2ft)8 fresh butter (almost i doz eggs, well beaten, 
melted). A little angelica. 

2 ozs ground ginger. Flour to work the whole 
Jtt» candied peel (chopped into a stifl" paste. 

very fine). 
Make into round cakes or slabs, afterwards to be cut into 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUliJE AND MEMORANDA 91 

oblong brown bricks, and set around with half-split 
almonds, or strips of peel. Bake in a brisk oven, and set 
by in a cool place. 

GINGEBBREAD— HARD (1). 
1 pt molasses. 1 gill buttermilk. 

t ft) butter. Salt to taste. 

1 oz ginger. Flour to make a stiff dough* 

1 oz soda. 

GINGERBREAD— HARD (2). 

3 ozs butter or meat drip- 3 gills hot water, in which a 

pings. small piece of alum the 

}pt molasses. size of a hazelnut has 

Jib brown sugar. been dissolved. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 dessorl spoon soda, dissol- 

1 teaspoon ginger. ved in the molasses. 
Flour to make a stiff dough. 

GINGERBREAD— HAMPTON. 
J lb butter. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

I lb sugar. Salt to taste. 

I fi) molasses. 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved 

1 ft) flour. in milk. 
3 eggs. 

Bake in buttered tins. 

GINGERBREAD HUNTING. 

Same as Gingerbread Nuts (1). 

GINGERBREAD— MOLASSES. 

2 ft>s lard or butter. 3 qts sour milk. 
1 gal molasses. 6 ozs soda. 

6 ozs ground ginger. Flour to make a stiff dough. 

When on pans, wash over the top with milk before bak- 
ing. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS (1). 

1 lb flour. i oz mixed spices. 

12 ozs butter. 2 ozs mixed peel, cut fine. 

i K> sugar. 1 fi> molasses. 

1 oz ground ginger. 

Mix together and form into a paste with the molasses ; 
make into small balls and flatten on a baking sheet ; bake 
in a moderate oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



92 FOBMULJS AND MEMORANDA. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS (2). 
1 fi> molasses. 1 oz candied angelica peeL 

f lb clarified butter. } oz candied lemon peel. 

1 ft> brown sugar. i oz coriander seed. 

2 ozs ginger. i oz carraway seed. 
1 egg. Flour. 

1 oz candied orange peel. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS— SUNDERLAND. 

2t ft>s flour. IJ ozs ground ginger. 

1 lb butter. 1} ozs allspice. 

1 lb moist sugar. 1} ozs coriander seed. 

If lbs molasses. 

GINGERBREAD— PARLIAMENT. 

16 Xb8 flour. li lbs moist sugar. 

H lbs lard. 

Mix dough very firm with water and molasses (half and 
half); roll out very thin and cut with a fine scolloped cut- 
ter, 2x4 inches ; bake hard in a slow oven. 

GINGERBREAD— QUEENS. 
1 lb fiour. 2i ozs fine cut almonds. 

}Ib honey. 2J ozs fine cut orange peel. 

[ lb sugar. IJ ozs mixed spices. 

Put the honey in a stew pan to warm ; add the other in- 
gredients, except the fiour, and stir well together until 
warm ; add fiour and mix well ; let stand two or three 
days ; roll out and cut into squares, marking the top of each 
piece into the forms of diamonds. 

GINGERBREAD SANDWICHES. 
1 lb flour. i oz ground cinnamon. 

Z ozs moist sugar. 3 ozs citron. 

1 lb molasses. One lemon cap, cut fine. 

2 ozs ground ginger. 1 gill brandy. 

Mix into a firm paste ; roll about the thickness of a sand« 
wich; cut into squares; bake in a moderate oven. . 

GINGERBREAD— SOFT. 
16 &>s fiour. 6 ozs soda, disolved in 3 qtf> 

3 qts molasses. water. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUL-S: AND MEMORANDA. 



8 lbs brown sugar. 1^ ozs grouDd ginger. 

2 doz eggs. 3 ozs ground allspice. 

Bake in x)apered tins in a quick oven. 

GINGERBBEAD-SWISS. 

1^ lbs flour. 1 oz ground ginger. 

6 ozs skinned almonds. i oz ground cinnamon. 

1 fc warm honey. ' J oz ground cloves. 

1 oz ground coriander. } gill orange flower water. 

1 oz soda. 

Work Into an elastic paste; let rest until next day in a 
cold place; roll out, and place the whole almonds in rows 
upon the paste ; roll up in the form of a bolster ; bake in a 
long shapped buttered tin ; cut in slices. 

GINGERBREAD— THICK. 

li lbs flour. i pt warm milk. 

J lb butter. 3 eggs. 

i lb brown sugar. 1 oz ginger. 

1 % molasses. i oz allspice. 

1 teaspoon carb soda. 

Just^before.done, brush the top over with the yolk of an 
egg beaten up with a little milk, and put it baek in the oven 
to finish baking. 

GINGERBREAD— WAFER 

1 lb flour. 2 ozs ground ginger. 

14 ozs molasses. 4 ozs fresh butter. 

4 ozs moist sugar. 

Roll out very thin on a baking sheet; bake in a slow 
oven ; cut into squares and roll into the form of wafers, 
after they come out of the oven and before they cool. 

GINGERBREAD— WELLINGTON. 
1 lb flour. J lb butter. 

1 lb moist sugar. i lb flue cut mixed peel. 

1 oz ground ginger and cin- 2 gills brandy, 
namon mixed. 2 oz molasses. 

Roll thin ; cut with a small round cutter ; bake in a 
sharp oven. 

GINGERBREAD— WHITE. 
1 ft) flour. Rind of 1 lemon. 

i lb butter. 1 oz ginger. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



94 FORMUL.£ AND MEMORANDA. 

i Xb loaf sugar. 1 nutmeg. 

1 gill milk. i teaspoon carb soda. 

GINGER CAKES, (1.) 
1 lb flour. 2 whole eggs. 

1 oz butter. J oz ground ginger. 

^Ib sugar. A little milk. 

Mix together and finish as for Shrewsbury cake. 

GINGER CAKES, (2,) SOFT. 
16 lbs flour. 1 qt water. 

1 gal molasses. i fb ground ginger. 

2 t>s butter. i lb soda. 

GINGER CAKES, (3.) 
16 fi>s flour. i lb saleratus. 

4 lbs lard. 1 gallon molasses, 

r qf water, t lb ground ginger. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE! 
16 fi»s flour. 2 ozs ammonia. 

2 lbs A sugar. 2 lbs lard. 

2 lbs granulated sugar. J lb ginger. 

2 ozs soda. 1 gal molasses. 

1 gill water. 

GINGER COOKIES. 
(See Cookies.) 

GINGER DROPS. 
Proceed witih the mixture as for Queen's drops (1) ; add- 
ing about } oz. ground ginger; lay them out in the same 
manner. 

GINGER FINGERS. 
Same as Cinnamon Fingers, using ground ginger in place 
of cinnamon. 

GINGER JUMBLES, (1.) 
16 tbs flour. 2 qts water. 

4 %s lard. i fi» soda. 

4 lbs brown sugar. } lb ground ginger. 

2 doz eggs. 1 gal molasses. 
Cut with jumble cutter. 

GINGER JUMBLES, (2.) 
(See GiNGEB Biscuit Mixture.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 95 

GINGER NUTS, (1.) 
Same mixture as for Ginger Snaps, only cut smaller with 
regular nut-cutters. 

GINGER NUTS, (2.) 
1} fi>s flour. i oz ground cinnamon. 

8 ozs honey. J oz ground cloves. 

8 ozs molasses. } oz ground coriander. 

2 ozs ground ginger. 2 ozs butter. 
1 oz carb soda. 

GINGER POUND CAKE. 
4 lbs flour. 1 qt molasses. 

1 lb sugar. 3 gills water. - 

1 lb lard. 2 ozs soda. 

1 <loz eggs. i oz ginger. 

i oz cloves. 

Bake in deep cake pan ; carraway seed or chopped lemon 
3>eel may be added if desired. 

GINGER SNAPS, (1.) 
16 fi>s flour. 5 ozs am monia. 

1 gal molasses. 4 ozs soda. 

3 lbs lard. 2^ ozs salt. 

4 lbs sugar. 2} ozs powdered ci namon . 
6 ozs powdered ginger. 

Cut with a snap cutter ; when about to put in oven cover 
the tops of the cakes with a wet cloth, which will cause 
i;hem to spread and present a fine appearance. 

N. B., some bakers add a small quantity of fine ground 
'black pepper in making ginger snaps. 

GINGER SNAPS, (2.) 
16 fi>s flour. 4 ozs ginger. 

4 lbs brown sugar. ^ oz muriatic acid. 

1 gal molasses. | oz alum di tjolved in boil- 

2} fcs lard. ing water. 

GINGER SNAPS (3). 
4fi)S flour. IJlbs lard or butter. 

1 qt molasses. 2 ozs soda. 

1 pt water. Powdered ginger, cinnamon 

IJlbs brown sugar. and cloves. 

IMix as for Lemon Snaps (1). 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



V6 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

GINGEB SNAPS (4). 
1 fi) sifted flour. 4 eggs. 

i ft) best butter. 3 ozs ground ginger. 

Jib pulverized sugar. 

Mix into a smooth, stiffish batter with eggs ; lay out 
on buttered tins or paper, so that they may spread. 

GINGER SNAPS (5). 
16 ft)S flour. 3 qts molasses (Porto Rico 

6} lbs brown oryellowC sugar. and New Orleans). 
2| lbs lard. 2| ozs cinnamon. 

3 ozs soda. 5 ozs ginger. 
J oz tartaric acid. 1 qt water. 

GINGER SNAPS— HONEY. 
(See Honey Ginger Snaps.) 

GINGER SPONGE CAKE. 
Sponge cake mixture flavored with extract of ginger and 
lemon. 

GINGER WAFERS. 
8 ozs flour. 2 ozs butter. 

4 ozs molasses. Pinch of salt. 

1 pt cream. 1 teaspoon Ess. ginger. 

After mixing drop on copper baking sheets, moderately 
heated ; as soon as they become a little dry and crisp, take 
them ofl" and shape on a mandril. 

GINGER WATER CAKES. 
Proceed as for Water cakes, omitting the seed, and 
adding about | oz ground ginger. 

GLACES MARBLED. 
Place a sheet of biscuit (Savoy or Genoese) on a baking 
plate; drop different sized lumps of flne preserves, consist- 
ing of bright apricot jam, green gage jam, damson jam, 
white apple jelly, and red currant jelly; spread them 
Bniouthly so as to form a marbled pattern ; cut out the cake 
in any fancy shape; mask with colorless transparent icing, 
and dry in the screen for flve minutes. This beautiful cake 
temJa considerably to enhance the elegance of a desert. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 97 

GLACES WITH ROSE PINK ICING. 
Cut up the Savoy or Genoese paste in any fancy shapes 
of equal sizes ; spread their surpace with bright jelly ; mask 
with rose pink transparent icing. 

GLACES WITH TRANSPARENT COFFEE ICING. 
Spread the Savoy biscuit with a thin coat of apple jelly, 
and mask with transparent icing flavored with coffee. 

GLACES WITH WHITE TRANSPARENT ICING. 
Spread the cake with apple jam and mask with icing. 

GLACES WITH GREEN TRANSPARENT ICING. 
Spread the cake with green gage jam, and mask with 
transparent icing colored with extract of spinach. 

GLEN COVE CRACKERS. 
Same as Osw^^ J^'mgers. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Saute as Lady cake; substituting the yolks for the 
whites of ^^gg. 

GOLDEN DROPS. 

16 lbs flour. i gal milk and water. 

H lbs butter. H ozs ammonia. 

7fi>s granulated sugar. Oil cloves to flavor. 

After mixing and rolling out } inch thick, cut with plain, 
round cutter ; wash over with saffron water, and turn over 
on granulated sugar ; pan loosly ; put a white comfit on the 
centre of each ; bake in a moderate oven. 

GRAHAM BREAD (1). 
Make a sponge of white flour, either Spring or Winter; 
when ready, beat it up by mixing a little water and molas- 
ses with it ; make the dough with Graham flour; shape and 
bake as common flour bread. 

GRAHAM BREAD (2).— DYSPEPSIA BREAD. 
Make a sponge of 1 pt warm water ; IJ pts white flour; J 
pt yeast, and salt to taste. Make the dough of i pt Indian 
meal ; i lb white sugar, and a teaspoon ful soda (dissolved 
7 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



98 FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 

in } gill boiliDg water) ecald in gradually as much Graham 
flour as necessary; let rise until light; put the dough in a 
pan. 

GRAHAM BREAD (3). 

2 lbs Graham. J pt yeast. 

1 lb wheat. 1 teaspoon salt. 

IJ pts warm water. 

Mix yeast and water ; strain into the Graham for sponge. 

GRAHAM BREAD— UNFERMENTED. 
12 ozs Graham. a teaspoon salt. 

4 ozs wheat. 2 teaspoons bakine powder. 

1 oz sugar. IJ pts milk (or half water). 

GRAHAM CRACKERS (1). 
16 lbs Graham flour. 10 ozs salt. 

6 lbs lard. i gal molasses. 

Set a sponge over night ; roll out very thin ; cut with a 
small, round cutter; bake in a medium oven. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS (2). 
Take Graham flour ; wet with water, using salt freely ; 
roll out thin and cut in any shape desired ; bake in a cool 
oven till very hard. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS (3). 
169)8 flour. 2^ ozs ammonia. 

16 fi>s Graham. l| ozs soda. 

4 lbs A sugar. 2| ozs salt. 

4 lbs lard 2 pails sponge. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS (4). 
1 lb best Graham. i pt milk. 

1 oz sugar. Salt. 

2 ozs butter. Pinch of ammonia. 

Roll out i inch thick; cut in small envelope-shaped 
crackers. 

GRAHAM CUP CAKE. 

i &> Graham flour. Lemon zest. 

1 ft butter. 3 Eggs. 

2 ozs sugar. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
1 gill cream. 

Bake in well greased cups, or muffin pans. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



i 



FpRMtTL^ AND MEMORANDA. 99 

GRAHAM FLOUR PUFFS. 
Set a sponge of wheat flour ; when ready, mix in Gra- 
ham flour, milk and eggs, well beaten ; make a smooth bat- 
ter as for cup oake ; bake in cold gem pans. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 
12 ozs Graham. 2teaspoons baking powder. 

4 ozs corn meal. li^ pts milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 
Half fill cold gem pans. 

GRAHAM GRIDDLE CAKES. 
i % Graham flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

J ft) corn meaL 1 egg. 

}ft) wheat. i pt milk. 

1 oz sugar* } pt water. 

i teaspoon salt. 

GRAHAM LUNCH BREAD. 
12 ozs Graham flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

i lb flour. f pt milk. 

1 oz sugar. 

Make. a sponge of wheat flour; form into long loaves; 
lay them, just touching, in a square, shallow cake pan; 
wash them over with milk ; when removing from the oven, 
rub them over with a little butter on a clean piece of linen. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 
1 fc Graham flour. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 oz brown sugar. 1 egg. 

1 teaspo<m salt. 1 pt milk. 

GRAHAM ROLLS (1). 
i lb Graham flour. J pt milk. 

I ft. wheat '* Salt to taste. 

1 tablespoon ful lard. 

Set a sponge with the wheat flour ; form into rolls the size 
of large flngers; lay on baking sheets so they will not 
touch; wash their surfaces with a soft brush dipped in 
milk to glaze them. 

GRAHAM ROLLS (2). 

2 lbs Graham flour. 1 gill molasses. 

1 % wheat ** 1 egg^ or two whites. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



100 FORMULAE AND MEMOBANDA. 

1} pts warm water. Salt to taste. 

i pt yeast. 

Proceed as for Graham Rolls (1). 

GRAHAM UNFERMENTED BREAD. 
(See Graham Bread— Unfermented.) 

GRAHAM WAFERS. 
Same as Wheat Wafers; using half quantity of best Gra- 
ham flour. 

GRAHAM WAFERETTES. 
Same as Graham Wafers, only somewhat smaller in size. 

GRAHAM WATER GEMS. 
Same as Graham Gems, omitting the corn meaL 

GRAPES-MERINGUES. 
(See Meringues.) 

GRATHAM NUTS 
16 ft)S flour. 4 doz eggs. 

16^ granulated sugar. i lb ground ginger. 

4fi»s butter. 1 oz ammonia. 

Mix and cut out larger size than ordinary nuts; pan 

loosely. 

GREEN GAGE BISCUIT. 
Prepare as for Peach Surprise biscuit, but keep them of 
the size and form of plums ; stick the two halves together 
with green gage jam ; cover them all over with the same; 
hold them on a silver fork to dip in glace icing colored with 
spinach green ; when dried, stick in a thin twig of gi'een 
angelica to form their stalks, and add the bloom as directed 
for peaches. 

GREEN MACAROONS. 
(See Macaroons.) 

GROUNDNUT CAKE. 
Same as Hazel N ut cake, substituting groundnats in the 
place of hazel nuts. 

GUM CAKE. 
Dissolve a sufficient quantity of Gum tragacanth in rose 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 101 

water; make it into a paste with double refined sugar, well 
beaten ; color (with vegetable colors) different portions of 
the paste with different colors, according to fancy ; for each 
color have a little rolling-pin and a knife so that the colors 
will not mix; lay first a white layer, then a colored, blend- 
ing the colors according to taste; roll them up and cut 
them in any shape you please, being specially careful to 
roll them out thin. 

HAMPTON GINGERBREAD. 
(See Gingerbread.) 

HANOVER BORDER BUTTER CRACKERS. 
( See Butter Crackers.) 

HARD CREAM BISCUIT. 
8 ozs fiour. 1 glass brandy. 

S whites of eggs. 1 oz sugar. 

i gill cream. Salt to taste. 

Roll out very thin ; cut with round cutter. 

HAZLE NUT CAKE. 

1 lb fiour. 1 doz eggs. 

1 lb sugar. i lb roasted hazel nuts. 

Beat whites and yolks separately; lastly add the flour; 
with biscuit syringe (star tube) lay out on floured pans, the 
size of a hickory nut ; bake in a cool oven. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 

■6 ozs sugar. J fi» hickory-nut kernels. 

S ozs butter. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 gill milk. 8 whites of eggs. 

§ lb flour. Lemon flavor. 

Bake in shallow cake pans. 

HOE CAKES. 
Upon 1 qt Indian meal and 1 teaspoonful salt, pour scald- 
ing water sufficient to make a thick batter ; spread it ujwn 
a board, and roast each side before a hot flre. 

HOMINY GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Same as Rice Griddle cakes, substituting cold boiled 
hominy in place of rice. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



102 PORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 

HOMINY MUFFINS. 
i lb flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

I pt cold, well-cooked horn- } pt milk, 
iny. 1 egg, 

1 oz brown sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Pour about 1 gill of water into a stewpan ; put in the 
hominy ; set it where it will not scorch until very hot; stir 
it free of lumps with a wooden spoon, and gradually dilute 
it with the milk ; as soon as it boils, take it off and set away 
to get cold. 

HONEY APPLE CAKE. 

} lb dried apples. i oz saleratus. 

i pt honey. Ground cloves, cinnamon, 

6 ozs sugar. powdered lemon (or or- 

4 ozs melted butter. ange peel) and ginger 

3 eggs syrup to flavor. 

Soak the dried apples over night; chop slightly and sim- 
mer in honey for 2 hours; add the other ingredients and 
mix well together with flour enough for a stifi* batter ; bake 
in cake pans. 

HONEY BREAD CAKE. 

1} ft>s flour. 12 ozs pure honey. 

4 ozs butter. 1 oz ground cinnamon* 

2 tablespoons orange flower 1 oz earb. soda. 

water. 
Bake in small round or flat tin moulds, previously but- 
tered ; dredge fine sugar over before bakhig ^ when done^ 
cover with orange icing. 

HONEY BISCUIT (1.) 
10 ozs Oswego prepared corn. A few candied orange flow- 
Jit) honey. ers. 

Work into a firm paste; divide into small balls; rollout 
very thin ; cut and prick with a biscuit docker ; put onto a 
h uttered baking sheet; bake in a moderate oven. 

HONEY BISCUIT (2.) 
i lb prepared corn starch. i % candied orange peel or 
^Ib white Indian meal. citron, chopped fine. 

1 lb pure strained honey» 1 oz ground coriander seed.^ 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMOBAKDA. 103 

Work the ingredients into astif^ compact dougii; r^ll 
this into a long roll and divide into a number of equal 
parts ; roll them into baUs, and then cut rather thin round 
biscuits ; dock them well ; lay on buttered tins. 

HONEY CAKE. 
IJfts flour. J oz cinnamon. 

J lb butter. 1 teaspoonful orange flower 

1 It) honey. water. 

2 eggs. 1 tablespoon baking powder. 
Pour the mixture into little round Queen-cake tins, but- 
tered ; dust them over with sugar. 

HONEY CAKE— GERMAN. 

4 lbs flour. i grated nutmeg. 

If lbs honey. J oz ginger. 

i % sugar. i oz soda. 

ilb butter. 

Boll out thin ; cut in small cakes ; bake in a hot oven. 

HONEY DROP CAKE. 
16 lbs flour. 6 ozs soda. 

IJ gals honey. IJ pts milk. 

2} fes lard. 

HONEY FINGERS. 
16 lbs flour. 3 qts honey. 

4 lbs C. cofffee sugar. 1 qt water. 

3 ozs cinnamon. Oil mace to flavor. 
2i ft)S butter and lard. J lb soda. 

Wash on the top lightly with a cloth. 

HONEY FRUIT CAKE. 

4 eggs. 1 lb currants. 
1 J lbs flou r. } fi) ci tron . 

Jib honey. 1 teaspoonful each, cloves 

I fi> butter. cinnamon, allspice and 

i pt sweet milk. nutmeg. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Bake in one loaf in a slow oven. This cake will keep for 
months, and be then even nicer than when flrst made. 

HONEY GINGER SNAPS. 
1 pt honey. 2 teaspoons ginger. 

Jib butter or drippings. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



104 FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 

Boil this together a few minutes, and when cool pour into 
flour in which baking powder has been sifted, and mix 
quite stiff. Roll thin and bake quickly. 

HONEY JUMBLES. 
16 lbs flour. 2 qts water, 

lib powdered sugar. Jib cinnamon. 

1 gal honey. 2 ozs ginger. 

2J lbs lard. Oil mace to flavor. 

i % soda. 

HONEf LEMON CAKE. 
i% honey. 1 teaspoon soda. 

J lb butter. Essence lemon to flavor, 

i doz eggs, well beaten. Flour to make a dough as 

1 gill sour milk. stitf as it can be stirred. 

HORSFORD^S PHOSPHATIC BREAD. 
16 fi)S flour. 5 ozs Horsford^s acid Phos- 

2 ozs bi-carb. soda. phate. 

Sift the whole well* together and mix into a dough with 
milk or water ; no kneading is required ; the dough is made 
wetter than when yeast is used, and is stirred quickly with 
a spoon just enough to thoroughly wet the flour; heat the 
oven and butter the pans before mixing the bread, biscuits 
or cakes ; do not let the bread stand after it is mixed but 
bake as quickly as possible. 

The bread should be baked in baking pans about 7 inches 
long, 4 inches deep, and 4 inches wide on the bottom, flar- 
ing and fitted with covers, to prevent the top of the dough 
from prematurely coating over with a hard crust, thereby 
preventing the carbonic acid gas from giving adequate 
porosity to the loaf. 

All kinds of Biscuits and Cakes may be made by the use 
of the acid Phosphate and Bicarb soda in the place of ordi- 
dinary baking powder, the proportions being as above. 

HOUSEHOLD BREAD. 
Mix 1} pints yeast with 1 quart luke-warm water ; add a 
few ounces of flour to make a thin batter; pour this into 
the middle of a peck of flour, and sprinkle a handful of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



b ^ 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 105 

flour lightly over the top. Cover the pan containing the 
mixture with a thick cloth, and put in a warm place about 
half an hour to rise. When the ferment has risen (when 
the flour sprinkled on the top begins to crack) add 2 quarts 
luke-warm water in which Jtt> salt has been dissolved; 
work into a smooth, soft dough; knead and mold into 
loaves of any desired shape and size. 

HUCKLEBERRY CAKE. 

f fi> flour. i doz eggs. 

Jib brown sugar. } oz baking powder. 

iJh butter. 1 gill milk. 

Jib huckleberries, washed J oz mixed spices. 

and picked. 
Put into a paper-lined square cake tin; bake in a quick 
oven. 

HUCKLEBERRY GRIDDLE CAKES. 
J fi) flour. Iptmilk. 

I pt huckleberries. 1 teaspoon salt 

1 oz brown sugar. J oz baking powder. 

2 eggs. 

Have the griddle hot enough to form a crust as soon as 
the batter touches it; in order to conflne the juice of the 
berries, turn quickly, so as to form a crust on the other side, 
and turn once more on each side to complete the baking. 

HUNTING GINGERBREAD. 

(See GiNaERBREAD.) 

ICE CAKE. 
1 lb flour. 2 lemons, grated rinds and 

2 lbs sugar. juice. 

1} doz eggs. 

Beat whites and yolks together; bake as for Jelly cake; 
when nearly cold, spread Royal icing, with a little orange 
zest, between the layers, and plain Royal icing on top. 

ICE CREAM CAKE (1). 
1 lb flour. i doz eggs. 

}lb sugar. 1 pt milk. 

} lb butter. 1 gill wine. 

Cream butter and sugar ; add eggs and milk ; lay out the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



I 



106 



FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 



size of walnuts in small patty-pans ; fill the bottom in the 
center with whipped cream; flavor with vanilla. 

ICE CREAM CAKE (2). 

i pt sweet milk. Whites of 8 eggs 

{ lb butter. } lb corn starch. 

i Vb sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

i lb flour. 

Cream butter and sugar ; add whites beaten very stiflT; 
bake in cakes about an inch thick. For icing between 
cakes: Whites of 4 eggs, beaten very light; 1 lb sugar;— 
pour } pt boiling water over the sugar, and boil until clear, 
and will Candy in cold water; pour the boiling syrup over 
the beaten eggs, and beat hard until the mixture is cold ; 
add one teaspoon pulverized citric acid and 2 teaspoons 
extract vanilla; when cold, spread between the cakes as 
thick as the cakes. 



ICED CRACKNELS, 
*• FRUIT BISCUIT, 
** FINGERS, 
" STARS. 

** SUGAR JUMBLES, 
" WENT WORTJHS, etc. J 



Cover on top with cracker 
- icing. 

See special recipes. 



ICELAND MOSS BREAD. 
2 TbB lichen meal. 7 IbS'flouT. 

Soak the lichen meal in water to extract bitterness; make 
a dough with ferment as for ordinary bread. 

IMPERIAL BISCUIT (1). 
16 lis flour. 3 doz eggs. 

10 lbs sugar. J pt water. 

6 lbs butter* 1^ ozs ammonia. 

Cut same as ginger snaps, and flatten on pan. 

IMPERIAL BISCUIT (2). 
16 Iba flour. J pt eggs. 

5i Hi3 sugar. | gal water. 

2i ibB butter or lard. Oil lemon to flavor, 

4 ozB ammonia. 
* Mix the dough at least 2 hours before baking it. 



u 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 107 

INTERNATIONAL CRACKERS. 
Use Cornhill or other plain cracker mixtures ; cut with 
International cutters. 

ITALIAN MACAROONS. 
(See Macaroons.) 

ITALIAN MACAROONS, IMITATION* 
(See Macaroons.) 

ITALIAN MERINGUES. 
(See MERiNGUi!.s) 

ITALIAN RATAFIAS. 
2 lbs flour. ' i oz ammonia. 

2 lbs sugar. 1 gill water. 

i]h hutter. A few drops oil hitter al- 

I doz eggs. monds. 

Lay out same as spice cake, and hake in a moderate oven* 

ITALIAN ROLLS. 
Set a sponge (see Buns) with 1 J ozs German yeast ; add it 
to 2J lbs flour ; } lb melted hutter; three parts of a pint of 
cream ; 2 ozs sifted sugar ^nd 9 yolkaof eggs. Form this- 
into a smooth dough, with a little extra milk ; when 
formed, mould and put into roll tins ; hake in a quick oven. 

ITALIAN RUSKS (1). 

A stale savoy or lemon cake may be converted into very 
good rusks. Cut the cake into slices ; divide each slice into 
two ; put them on a bakingsheet in a slow oven, and when 
they are a nice browr and quite hard, they are done. They 
should be put in a closed tin canister to preserve their 
crispness. 

ITALIAN RUSKS (2). 

1 lb flne sifted flour. 1 doz eggs. 

1 lb sugar. A few carraway seeds. 

Beat up sugar and eggs ; stir in gently the flour and seed ; 
fill buttered rusk forms half full ; when baked, turn out on 
a sieye; next day cut into slices; put them on a clean baking 
sheet, and brown on both sides in a very hot oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



108 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

ITALIAN WAFERS. 
8 ozs sifted sugar. i pt milk. 

8 ozs flour. 2 ozs butter. 

J gill orange flower water. Pinch of salt. 

2 eggs. 

Mix, adding the butter (dissolved); work vigorously; 
bake in wafer irons and curve on round sticks about Ave 
inches long and one inch in diameter. 

ITALIAN WALNUT CAKE. 
1 fi> almonds (blanched). 2 ozs flour. 

1 lb sugar. Orange flavor. 

Yolks of 8 eggs. 

Make into a firm paste, coloring about one-third of the 
balls with fine grated chocolate; proceed as for Almond 
Paste walnuts. 

IRISH BREAD (1). 

Proceed as for Cottage bread ; bake in boxes about six 
inches wide, on the hearth of an old-fashioned oven. 

IRISH BREAD (2). 
(See New York Bread.) 

IRISH CAKE. 

1 % flour. i fi> candied orange and 

1 & sugar. lemon peel, chopped fine. 

1 fi) butter. A pinch of salt. 

1 doz eggs. J fi) white comfits. 

1 gill Irish whiskey. 

Bake in oblong moulds; nearly fill tnem and strew the 
comfits on the top ; dust with sugar. 

IRISH FAGGOT CAKE. 
(See Almond FAGaoT Cake.) 

IRISH JELY FRIED CAKES. 
\ fi> sugar. i oz each ammonia and 

J R butter. cream tartar. 

i doz eggs. Flour to make a dough. 

3 pts water. 

Set in a warm place until it rises ; roll out and cut into 
cakes; on each cake place a piece of marmalade; put another 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 109 

cake over it and wet the bottom so that it will stick ; set in 
a warm place to rise ; fry in hot boiling lard ; sugar them 
when cool. 

IRISH TURNIPS. 
(See Almond Turnips.) 

JAMAICA CRACKERS. 

16 tt»8 flour. 1S> butter. 

1 pt milk. 1 fi> sugar. 

Cut witli round cutters. 

JAPANESE CAKE. 

Sponge Cake mixture. 

Bake in a sheet 1 inch thick ; pipe it over with white 

Icing after it is baked; cut in square or diamond shape 

blocks; siftsi^ar over it ; bake light brown ; lastly put eaif s 

foot jelly in the center. 

JELLY CAKE- APPLE. 

t R butter. } lb flour. 

i % sugar. i oz ammonia. 

} doz eggs. i pt milk. 

Cream butter and sugar; add ^gs, flour, ammonia and 
milk; make a rather thin Imtter ; bake in Jelly cake tins* 
carefully greased. Have i doz apples, peeled and sliced, 
put on the fire with Jib sugar; when tender, remove from 
the fire, rub through a fine sieve and add a little butter ; 
when cold spread between the layers of the cake; sprinkle 
plentifully with sifted sugar. 

JELLY CAKE— CANADIAN. 

1 ft fiour. 2 tablespoons milk. 

i lb butter. 2 teaspoons cream tartar and 

J lb sugar. soda (mixed. ) 

3 eggs. Lemon fiavor. 

Cream butter and sugar; add yolks of the eggs (well 
beaten) and milk ; stir in fiour,- cream tartar and soda, last 
of all the whites of eggs and fiavor. Pour the batter into 
four shallow, tin-lined plates. When cold, two cakes are 
placed on the top of each other, with jelly or preserves be- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



110 FORMUL.^ AND MEMORANDA. 

tween. The cake should be 1 inch thick when baked, and 
covered with powdered sugar. 

JELLY CAKE— CHOCOLATE. 

Jib butter. Jptmilk. 

i fi) sugar. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

3 eggs. } ft flour. 

Cream for cakes ; Jib chocolate; 1 pt sweet milk ; yolks of 
2 eggs or } tablespoon com.starch; 6ozssugar; boil about 
half an hour until as stiff as jelly, stirring all the time ; 
when cold add 1 teaspoon extract lemon. 

JELLY CAKE— CURRANT (1.) 
( See Jelly Rolls and Ribbon Cake.) 

JELLY CAKE— CURRANT (2.) 
Proceed as for Cream cake; substituting currant jelly for 
pastry cream. 

JELLY CAKE— ROSE. 
1 fi> sugar. 1 doz eggs. 

1 ft flour. 

Lay out in three round layers H inches thick ; bake in a 
moderate oven ; when done, put jelly between each layer; 
ice with pink icing flavored with rose ; ornament with fancy 
designs. 

JELLY DROPS. 

Same dough as for Lady Fingers, only laid out in spoon- 
fuls ; sugar them ; wet the paper to take oft ; put a little 
jelly on one and stick it to another. 

JELLY PUFFS. 
Same as Cream Puffe, filling with jelly in place of whip- 
ped cream. 

JELLY ROLLS. 
2fts flour. 3 pts yolks of eggs. 

2 fts sugar. 6 ozs melted butter. 
Spread on paper J in. thick ; bake in a hot oven ; when, 

done take off" paper and spread currant or any other kind 
of jelly over the cake on the side the paper comes ofl"; roll 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUJi^ AND MEMORANDA. Ill 

loosely and quickly ; cover with water-icing and roll it in 
pulverized sugar ; cut the ends ofT and mark in slices. 

JELLY SQUARES. 

1 ft) fiour. 1 ft) butter. 

1 ft) sugar. 1 doz eggs. 

Bake i inch thick on papered tins; when done and cold, 
take the paper off and cut into two equal parts ; spread 
jelly on one half and put the other on top ; cover with wa- 
ter icing, and cut into 2 inch squares. 

JENNY LIND CAKE. 
Take a sheet of Lady-cake about f inch thick ; cut into 
slices 3 inches wide; beat up pulyerized sugar and the 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth so that it will stand in steeples ; 
lay out on the slices with a bag and tube, putting a thin 
coating of currant jelly on the cake; lay six rows as long 
as the cake, lay five rows on the next, then three and, so 
continue till you have it tapered to an edge, and the batter 
about two inches high. Let this sheet be on a pan on paper, 
and so proceed till all is used ; sift over fine sugar and place 
in a cool oven to brown on top ; take out when it has stood 
a few minutes, cut thin slices across 1 Jx3 inches. 

JOHNNY CAKE (1.) 
1 qt new milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 eggs. i % wheat flour. 

1 teaspoon saleratus. Indian meal. 

Make a rather thick batter and bake quickly in pans pre- 
viously buttered. 

JOHNNY CAKE (2.) 
( See Corn Johnny Cake.) 

JOHNNY GREY CAKE. 

16 fts flour. } gal water. 

8 ft)s sugar. i ft) ammonia. 

2»)S butter. Cinnamon flavor. 

2fi>s currants. 

Roll out i inch thick ; cut with round cutters ; wash over 
with milk and egg ; pan loosely. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



112 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 



JUBILEE BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

JULIAN CAKE. 
i lb flour, 1 gill wine. 

Jib sugar. 2 eggs, 

pt cream. i nutmeg. 

1 gill milk. i teaspoon 

Bake in buttered tins. 



JUMBLES. 
See under appropriate headings, such 



as: 



Almond. 


E^. 


SmalL 


Aniseed. 


Extra. 


Soft. 


Banana. 


Gem. 


Spice. 


Carraway. 


Honey. 


Strawberry. 


Celery. 


Lemon. 


Sugar. 


Chocolate. 


Nonpareil. Vienna, 


Cinnamon. 


Orange. 


Wafer. 


Cocoanut. 


Oswego. 


Walnut. 


Congress. 


Peerless. 


White Sugar. 


Currant. 


Rich. 


Etc^Etc 




JUMBLES (1.) 


16 lbs flour. 




2 ozs ammonia. 


7 lbs sugar. 




Vanilla, almond, lemon, eto. 


4 lbs butter or lard 




to flavor. 



16 eggs. 

Boll a little over i inch thick ; cut with r^ular jumble 
cutters. 

JUMBLES (2.) 
16fi>s flour. . 3 ozs ammonia. 

8 lbs sugar. i ^1 milk. 

5 !bs butter and lard. Oil lemon to flavor. 

2 dozen eggs. 



JUMBLES (3.) 

i doz eggs. 

2 ozs corn starch* 



}S> flour. 

6 ozs butter. 

i & sugar. 

Boll out dough rather thin ; cut and roll in a mixture of 
4 ozs chopped peanuts, mixed with 4 ozs granulated sugar; 
lay on greased baking tins. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 113 

■ ■ — ■ 

KAISER SEMMEL. 
(See Vienna Bread.) 

KENOSHA CRACKERS. 
Use butter cracker mixture (2) ; cut with a pick-up scrap 
cutter, 1} to 2 inches, crimped edge. 

KENTUCKY CORN BREAD. 
(See Corn Bread.) 

KINDERGARTEN CRACKERS. 
16 &s flour. 1 oz soda. 

2 fcs powdered sugar. i oz tartaric acid. 

2 fi>s lard and butter. i oz ammonia. 

i 1h corn starch. 1} ozs salt. 

i gal water. 
Cut with Kindergarten cutters. 

KIPFEL (1.) 
1 % powdered white sugar. Vanilla flavor. 
8 whites of eggs. 
Beat up sugar and eggs; when mixed, make it up into 

the shape of small horseshoes ; mince 1 lb sweet almonds. 

and turn the kipfel round in them ; bake on wafers in a 

very moderate oven. 

KIPFEL (2.) 

(See Vienna Crescents or Kipfel.) 

(See Vienna Saltz- Kipfel.) 

KISSES (1.) 

1 doz whites of eggs. 1 lb powdered sugar. 

Beat the whites to a stifl" froth in a copper kettle, being 
sure that both the kettle and whisk are very clean, for the 
least particle of grease or foreign matter of any kind will 
spoil the kisses, and the mixture can never be beat solid 
enough; it is stiff enough when it seems somewhat solid to 
the touch of the finger; mix in the sugar gently with a 
wooden spatula ; lay out with a rubber or canvas bag with a 
tube in the end either plain or scolloped, in the same man- 
ner as meiJngues; bake on a meringue board. The above 
8 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



114 FORMULAE- AND MEMORANDA. 

mixture can also be laid out in rings, or any other form to- 
suit the fancy, if properly handled. 

KISSES (2.) 
(See Meringues and Snow Balls.J 

KISSES— EGG. 
Kiss mixture. 
Take a board about J inch thick ; wet some paper and lay 
it smoothly on the board ; force the mixture from the bag 
through the tube as much in the shape of an egg^ cut 
lengthwise, as possible; bake in a cool oven ; when baked, 
stick two of them together. 

KISSES— FRENCH. 
Kiss mixture. 
Lay out with the scolloped tube and bake in pans, well 
oiled and floured. 

KISSES— WAFER. 

1 pt whites of eggs. 12 ozs sugar. 

4 ozs flour. 4 ozs blanched almonds. 

Rub the almonds flne in a mortar with the whites ; lay 
out thin on waxed pans, oval shape ; bake in a quick oven ; 
when baked roll up like a funnel and stick in a board with 
i inch holes in it, to keep them from unrolling; when done, 
flll kiss batter m the end, Vanilla flavor; then run in the 
oven to brown. 

KOSSUTH CAKES. 
These, are made from Marangs ; flll with double cream, 
stiffened with isinglass, and flavored with vanilla; beat 
light; stick two together; dip half of the cake in Chocolate 
icing, letting it run over the other part. 

KRINGLES. 

i fb butter. 2 whole eges. 

J fi) sugar. 6 yolks well beaten. 

Work to a stiff froth with sifted flour; roll thin in flne 
white £$ugar ; cut into small cakes; bake on buttered tins; 
serve with jelly or sweetmeats, in each 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 115 

LADY CAKE (1.) 
l}ft)S flour. 1 pt whites of eggg. 

IJIbs powdered sugar. Almond flavor. 

1 tt> butter. 

Mix and bake as for Pound cake; cover with Royal Icing. 
The eggs must be fresh, and the whites very clear. 

LADY CAKE (2.) 
2ft>s flour. 1 pt whites of eggs. 

2 Rs sugar. Almond flavor. 



1 lb butter. 



LADY CAKE (3.) 



1 !b sugar. 1 pt whites of eggs. 

1 Bb flour. Almond flavor. 

1 Tb butter. 

LADY CAKE (4.) 
2i lbs flour. • 1 qt whites of eggs. 

2 lbs butter. 2 ozs bitter almonds, rubbed 
2^ S>s sugar. flne. 

LADY FINGERS (1.) 

1 lb sifted sugar. A pinch of salt ; and flavor 
14 eggs. as desired. 

9 ozs flour. 

Separate carefully the yolks from the whites, keeping the 
latter in a cool place ; add the sugar, salt and flavoring to 
the yolks; work well until the batter becomes a light 
creamy substance; whisk the whites to a flrm snowy froth, 
and mix in very lightly with the batter, adding the flour 
gradually; lay out in form and length of fingers with the 
biscuit bag upon sheets of strong paper; dredge flne sugar 
over them; lay on baking tins and bake in a moderate oven 
a delicate gold color ; when done, wet the underside of the 
paper with a brush, when the fingers can be removed with- 
out breaking ; stick two together. 

LADY FINGERS (2.) 
2fi>s flour. 2 doz eggs. 

2 lbs sugar. 

Flavor as desired and proceed as above. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



116 FORMULiEJ AND MEMORANDA. 

LADY FINGERS a la MERINGUE. - 
Lay Kiss mixture on a board (papered and wet) the shape 
of a lady finger ; bake and stick every two of them the 
same way as ^%'^ kisses. 

LADY FINGERS— SPANISH. 
2ft>s flour.. 1 pt milk. 

1 K) butter. \ oz cream tartar. 

1} lbs sugar. I oz soda. 

10 eggs. 2 ozs carraway seed. 

Cut in lengths of ten inches ; Ibake in a quick oven ; when 
done, spread jelly on the bottom and stick two of them 
together. 

LADY FINGERS— WHITE, 
16 lbs flour. \ gal sour milk. 

8 fi>s sugar. 2 ozs ammonia. 

41bsbutter and lard. 1-2 ozs soda. 

1 qt eggs. Oil lemon to flavor. 

LAFAYETTE CAKE. 

2 lbs flour. 1 pt molasses. 
\ lb butter. 1 pt water. 

\ ft) brown sugar. 1 oz soda. 

2 eggs. 

Bake quickly in muffin rings; when done, put jelly 
around the edges of them ; then roll in grated cocoanut; 
make a stifl" water-icing, mixed with jelly ; make a ring 
round the bottom of each one with icing ; put chocolate 
icing in the centre of each of them. 

LAXATIVE BREAD (for Constipation and Piles.) 

Coarse Scotch oatmeal. \ 

Whole wheaten flour. \ Equal parts. 

Course ordinary flour. J 

This bread can be lightened by yeast ; or to a 2 ft) loaf, add 
a little baking powder. This bread keeps well and a 2 ft) 
loaf will be sufficient for a week, taking a portion once or 
or twice a day in conjunction with ordinary bread. 

LEAF CRACKERS. 
Use Corahill or other good cracker mixture ; cut with 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 117 

leaf cutters, of which there are a great many handsome 
patterns. 

LEAFLETS, v 
Use Comhill or other good cracker mixture; cut with 
leaflet cutters. 

LEAVENED BREAD (1.) 
(See Paris Bread— White.) 

LEAVENED BREAD (2.) 
The ferment is thus made. Two good handsful of hops are 
boiled in four quarts of water ; this is poured upon as much 
wheaten bran as can be well moistened by it ^ to this is 
added four or five pounds of leaven ; when this is only 
warm the mass is well worked together to mix the different 
parts. The mass is then put into a warm place for twenty- 
four hours, and after that it is divided into small pieces, 
about the size of a hen^s egg or a small orange, which are 
dried by beiug placed upon a board, and exposed to a dry 
air, but not to the sun ; when dry they are laid by for use, 
and may be kept for half a year. This is the ferment, and 
it may be used in the following manner: For a baking of 
six large loaves, six good handsful of the balls are taken and 
dissolved in seven or eight quarts of warm water. This is 
poured through a sieve into one end of the bread trough, 
and three quarts more of warm water are poured through 
the sieve after it, and what remains in the sieve is well 
pressed out. This liquor is mixed up with so much flour 
as to form a mass of the size of a large loaf. This is strewed 
over with flour, the sieve, with its contents, is put upon it, 
and then the whole is covered up and left till it has risen 
enough and its surface has begun to crack ; this forms the 
leaven. Then flfteen quarts of warm water, in which six 
handsful of salt has been dissolved, are poured through the 
sieve upon it, and the necessary quantity of flour is added 
and mixed and kneaded with the leaven. This is covered 
up warm and left for about an hour. It is then formed into 
loaves, which are kept in a warm room half an hour, and 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



i 



118 FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 

after, they are put in the oven, where they remain two or 
three hours, according to the size. 

LECRELETS. 

(Bee Nu£REMBERQ Lecrelets.) 

( See Swiss Lecrelets.) 

LEE CAKE. 

1 R flour. 1 doz eggs. 

1 ft sugar. Flavor with mace and whi*- 

1 ft) butter. Icey. 

Lay out on one large sheet of paper i inch tMck ; bake in 
a quick oven; take off paper, and spread oyer the following 
mixture : 

2 ozs ground almonds. Whites of i doz eggs beat 

3 ozs sugar. up stiff. 

3 ozs grated cocoanut. }&» pulverized sugar. 

Dust cinnamon over the top; cut in pieces ljx3 inches^ 

LEMON BISCUIT. 

3 lbs flour. } pt milk. 

1 % butter. i oz ammonia. 

1 S> sugar. Oil lemon to flavor. 

} doz eggs. 

Boll out into long round strips and cut in diamond shapes 
and scollop the top with the back of a knife; bake on 
greased pans in hot oven. 

LEMON CAKE (1.) 
Same as Cream Cake (1), flavoring the pastry cream with 
lemon zest. 

LEMON CAKE (2.) 
10 lbs flour. } lb ammonia. 

i gal molasses. 1^ lbs butter. 

1 qt water. Flavor with lemon zest* 

i lb soda. 
Bake in lemon cake pan. 

LEMON CAKE (3.) 
}lb flour. 1 lemon. 

I lb sugar. 3 tablespoons orange flower 

10 eggs. water. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 119 

» 

LEMON CAKES. 
16 lbs flour. 2 qts water. 

5 &S sugar. If ozs ammonia. 

2]t»s lard aod butter. Oil lemon. 

Proceed as for butter scotcli drops. 

LEMON CRACKERS (1.) 
2 fi>s sifted flour. 4 lemons. 

2 K)S powdered sugar. 8 eggs. 
i K) butter. 

Rub the butter thoroughly into the flour; mix in the 
sugar and lemon peel (chopped fine) ; beat the eggs well, 
add to this the juice of the lemons, and stir thoroughly ; 
add them to the mixture, and stir well together to a stifle 
paste ; roll i inch thick, and divide into biscuits with a cut- 
ter ; bake on tins. 

LEMON CRACKERS (2.) 
. 16 ft>s flour. 2i ozs ammonia. 

5 lbs sugar. 2 qts water. 
2illE)slard. Oil lemon. 

LEMON CRACKERS (3.) 
16 lbs flour. 2} ozs ammonia. 

3 lbs sugar. 2 qts water. 

2 lbs lard. Oil lemon. 
Cut with lemon cracker cutters. 

LEMON CRACKERS— AMERICAN. 

16 lbs flour. 2 ozs ammonia. 

6 lbs sugar. Oil lemon. 

3 lbs butter. 
Wash with water. 

LEMON CRACKERS— SMALL. 
Same mixture as Brightons, only strongly flavored with 
oil lemon. 

LEMON CREAM CRACKERS. 

16 tt)S flour. 2 qts water or buttermilk. 

3J lbs sugar. 2-2J ozs ammonia. 

2 lbs butter and lard. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



I 



120 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

LEMON DROPS (1.) 
Proceed as for Orange drops, using lemon zest, in plactv 
of orange zest. 

LEMON DROPS (2.) 
16 &s flour. f oz ammonia. 

2i lbs butter. Milk to mix into an easy 

10 fi>s granulated sugar. dough. 

30 eggs. Oil lemon to flavor. 

LEMON FINGERS— BROWN. 

16 &s flour. H ozs ammonia. 

21bs butter. Oil lemon to flavor. 

2fi>s sugar. 

Mix with half water and molasses ; cut with finger cut- 
ters, and bake in a slow oven. 

LEMON FINGERS— WHITE. 
16 lbs flour. 2qts water, 

l^lbs lard. IJ ozs ammonia. 

8 fi)S granulated sugar. Oil lemon. 

LEMON GINGER CAKE. 
4 ft)S flour. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

J tt) butter. 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

i ft) sugar. 1 tablespoon saleratus. 

I doz eggs. Rind or two lemons and the 

i pt milk. juice of one. 

i pt molasses. 
Bake in square pans in a quick oven. 

LEMON JUMBLES. 
Use same mixture as for Lemon fingers. 

LEMON SNAPS (1.) 

3 J fi»s flour. 9 eggs. 

3 lbs pulverized sugar. i oz ammonia. 

1 J lbs butter. Lemon zest. 

Make a bead in the centre of the flour; add the sugar, 
eggs, butter, lemon zest and ammonia (dissolved in milk or 
water); rollout thin; cut the size of a half dollar; or cut 
them in bits the size of a marble, making them flat on the 
pan with the hand; bake in a cool oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 121 

LEMON SNAPS (2.) 
16tt)8 flour. 2 qts water. 

10 1t>s sugar. 1^ ozs ammonia. 

10 eggs. } oz oil lemon. 

4J lbs butter and lard. 

LEMON TWIST. 

2 ft>s flour. 1 gill water. 

1 lb sugar. i oz ammonia. 

i ft) butter. Lemon zest to flavor. 

4 eggs. 

Roll into long strips ; cut in pieces 1 inch long ; roll these 
out like a pipe stem ; plait them as you would twist thread ; 
bake on greased pans in a moderate oven. 

LEMON WATER CAKE. 
Same as Ginger Water cake; omitting the ginger and 
adding a few drops of oil lemon. 

LINCOLN CAKE. 

Jib flour. 2 ozs butter, 

lb sugar. i pt milk.. 

3 eggs. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake in deep, round cake pans; cover with Royal icing. 

LITZ CAKE. 

Cover a sheet ( about i inch thick ) of Lady cake with 
jelly ; put a sheet of Pound cake, same size and thickness, 
on top; cover with water ice, and sprinkle cinnamon on 
top ; cut in 1} inch squares. 

LINZER TART. 
i & flour. Whites of 1 doz eggs beat 

I fi> ground almonds. up stifll 

1 J lbs sugar. Cinnamon to flavor. 

I I lbs butter. 

Bake in a moderate oven ; ice with chocolate icing, and 
ornament. 

LIQUEUR MARBLED SANDWICH BISCUIT. 
Proceed as for Sandwich biscuits; when completed, imi- 
tate the veins of marble on the glace icing (before it sets 
and before you cut it out into lengths) with a wooden 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



122 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

skewer dipped in cochineal, and very delicately handled; 
then, with another skewer, trace a few light viens with 
soine diluted burnt sugar ; it will have a very pretty ap- 
pearance. 

LIQUEUR PINK SANDWICH BISCUIT. 
Proceed as above, tinging the ice with a little cochineal. 

LIQUEUR WHITE SANDWICH BISCUIT. 
Proceed as for Raspberry Venice cake, using glace icing, 
in place of Royal icing. 

LOAF CAKE. 
(See Quick Loaf Cake.) 

LONG BRANCH CRACKERS. 
(See OswEGfo Fingers.) 

LONG OBTUSE-POINTED BISCUITS, WITH 
TRANSPARENT ICING. 

These cakes are used to advantage in dressing up desert 
side-dishes known as drums; they must be so placed as to 
preserve and show off the beautiful transparent glace of 
their whole -surface. 

Prepare and bake some Savoy biscuit, in a deep baking 
sheet, i inch thick; when cold cut into proper shapes; 
trim them very neatly with a sharp knife, and brush off 
the least particle of crumbs, so that the icing may not be 
prevented from adhering to the biscuits, and thereby giviog 
them a rough appearance ; carefully spread the upper part 
and side of the biscuits with apricot jam, holding one at a 
time on a silver fork with the left hand, while with a spoon 
in the right hand, pour transparent chocolate icing over the 
surface of the biscuit; when completed, place each one 
carefully upon a wire tray resting on a baking-slieet ; as 
soon as the operation is completed, dry the biscuits in the 
screen for five minutes. 

LONG ROLLS. 

3 ozs lard or butter. Teaspoon salt. 

1 pt water. Flour to make a stiff batter. 

4 tablespoons yeast. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMUL^ AND MEMORANDA. 123 

Melt lard in water; add yeast and salt; cover and set to 
nse; add 1 teaspoon sooa, dissolved in hot water; add flour 
to make a stiff dough ; knead it long and hard ; cut into 
long oval rolls; and after moulding them into a good shape, 
put on baking sheets ; cut a slit in the top of each ; cover 
and set aside a half hour to rise. 

LONDON WHITE BREAD. 
16fc8 flour. About f qt warm water for 

4 ozs salt. sponge. 

1 gill yeast. 
Many of the London bakers add about 4 drachms alum, 

LONDON BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

LORD MAYOR^S CAKE. 

1 lb flour. 8 eggs. 

1 fi> sugar. A few carraway seed. 

Make into round drop cakes, about 2 inches across, upon 
sheets of paper set on iron plates ; sift sugar or carraway 
seed over the top^ and bake in a brisk oven ; when done 
take off paper and stick two together with their tops out- 
ward. 

LOVEWELLS. 
10 eggs. 1 & flour. 

1 lb sugar. 

Beat sugar and eggs, and add flour; lay out } inch thick 
on paper; bake and as soon as done cut immediately into 
strips 2i inches wide ; roll on a round stick J inch in diam- 
eter ; lap one end over the other and press tight, so that it 
will stick ; cut it ofi", and if it be long enough make an- 
other; continue till all is used ;— then put in bottoms with 
the scraps, let them be 1} inches from the top; fill with 
cream puff" filling ; make a round ring on the top with ki»s 
batter, and put in oven to let get hard ; then put a marma- 
lade inside, apple or currant ; dip in white transparent 
icing. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



124 FOBMUL-E AND MEMORANDA. 

LUNCH BREAD. 

i% flour. 1 oz lard. 

i fi> corn meaL f pt milk. 

t K) rye flour. Salt to taste. 

1 oz sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Knead well; divide the dough into five equal pieces; 
form them into long loaves; lay them just touching on a 
shallow square pan; wash over with milk ; bake in a pretty 
hot oven. 

LUNCH CAKE— BOSTON, 
fib flour. 1 gill wine. 

i% butter. Extracts Kose, cinnamon 

I lb sugar. and nutmeg. 

i pt eggs. 

Bake in thickly papered shallow cake pan ; when cold^ 
ice the bottom and sides with White Icing. 

LUNCHEON CAKE. 

(See Yeast Cake.) 

LUNCH CRACKERS. 

Use Buttei: Cracker mixture (1) ; roll very thin and cut 
with round cutters. 

LUNCH ROLLS. 
1 lb flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 oz lard. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 pt milk. 

Roll out i inch thick; cut with round cutter about 2} 
inches in diameter; lay them on a greased baking tin, just 
touching (in rows evenly) ; wash over with milk ; wash 
them over again with milk when they are taken from the 
oven. 

MACARONIES. 
(See Macaroons.) 

MACAROONS (1.) 
}lb ground sweet almonds. Whites of about 4 egg.^, 
1 % sifted sugar. A little lemon zest. 

Beat in a mortar with the whites (two at a time) ; make 
a little flrmer than for Ratafias, but so that it will pass easily 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 125 

through the biscuit bag ; lay out on wafer paper about 1} 
inches apart, the size of a silver half dollar; stick three or 
four slices of almonds on the top of each; bake in a mode- 
rate oven; when cold, put in tin cannisters. 

MACAROONS (2.) 
1 lb blanched ground al- 2i lbs pulverized sugar. 

monds. 1 oz flour. 

14 whites of eggs. 

MACAROONS— ALMOND (1.) 

1 ft blanched almonds. 1 pt whites of eggs. 

2 lbs granulated sugar. 

Pound almonds and sugar in a stone mortar; take out and 
sift through a fine sieve; put what will not go through 
back into the mortar and repeat until you have them all 
through; stir in the eggs and beat well ; drop with a biscuit 
bag upon pans,well greased and floured ; bake in a cool oven» 

If in the process of pounding, the almonds become oily, 
the macaroons will be heavy and have an undue gloss on 
them. The flavor of macaroons can be increased by the 
addition of a few drops of oil bitter almonds. A macaroon 
mixture may be cheapened by the addition of one-third 
rice flour, adding the same quantity of additional sugar. 

Plain macaroons are simply dusted with powdered sugar 
before baking; others are further sprinkled with a little 
water to give them a good gloss. Some macaroons are gar- 
nished with split almonds, chopped almonds, coarse loaf 
sugar, raisins, citron cut in fancy shapes, chocolate, icing 
(plain or colored), gelatine, etc.; others again are decorated 
with green leaves, roses, nonpareils, pistachio nuts, etc.* 
and from the style of decoration, size and shape, they take 
different names. 

Macaroons, if properly made, have first rate keeping 
qualities. If they are kept in closed glass-jars, they wilj 
keep for months. In this case, however, it is necessary to 
expose them to the atmosphere for at least twenty-four 
hours before using. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



126 FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 

MACAROONS— ALMOND (2.) 
16 ft>s almond paste. 1 fc wheat flour. 

25 ft>9 sugar. 8 qts whites of eggs. 

3 fcs corn flour. 

MACAROONS-ALMOND (3.) 
16fi)S almond paste. 5 qts whites of eggs. 

8 lbs rice flour. 35 lbs sugar. 

3 lbs wheat flour. 

MACAROONS— ALMOND (4.) 
These may be made without trouble by the use of "Heide's 
Patent Preserve Composition,'* it being a complete maca- 
roon mixture, only needing to be softened with water. 

The blanching and pounding of almonds may also be 
entirely avoided by the use of " Heide's Patent Almond 
Paste. »» 

[Both the above preparations are guaranteed by the 
patentee to be perfectly pure.] 

MACAROONS— BITTER ALMOND. 

f % sweet almonds. 1 pt whites of e^gs. 

lib bitter almonds. A few drops oil bitter al- 

2fi»s granulated sugar. monds. 

Proceeds as for Macaroons — Almond (1.) 

MACAROONS- BRUSSELS. 

\ fi> Jordan almonds. 2 lbs sifted sugar. 

i % bitter almonds. 8 whites of eggs. 

Blanch the almonds and pound them in a mortar with a 
little orange flower water ; mix in the sugar and the whites, 
beat up very flrm; lay out oval shape on wafer-paper; bake 
of a very light color in a slack oven. 

MACAROONS— BULL'S EYE. 
Same as French Jelly Macaroons, except they are laid 
out round like a wafer jumble; when baked make a small 
hole in the centre and insert jelly in the same; ice with 
vauilla water-icing. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MKMORANDA. 127 

MACAROONS— CHOCOLATE (1.) 
1 fi> fine sugar. 2 ozs chocolate, grated very 

4 whole eggs. tine. 

Beat up eggs as for Kiss mixture; mix in sugar and' 
chocolate ; lay out as for macaroons. 

MACAROONS-CHOCOLATE (2.) 
Take almond macaroons and dip them in chocolate icing. 

MACAROONS-CHOCOLATE (3.) 
1 R) almonds, rubbed fine in 16 whites of eggs. 

mortar. 3 fts sugar. 

1 lb chocolate, grated fine. 2 ozs fiour. 
Lay out; dust with sugar. 

MACAROONS— CHOCOLATE (4.) 
f ft) ground almonds. } lb grated chocolate. 

1^ lbs sifted sugar. A little vanilla sugar. 

Whites of three eggs. 

MACAROONS— COFFEE. 
1 ft) ground almonds. Whites of three eggs, 

li ft>8 sifted sugar. Coffee essence to flavor. 

Lay out and bake as chocolate macaroons. 

MACAROONS— COCOANUT (1.) 
16 lbs grated cocoanut. 3 lbs corn or rice flour. 

22 ft>s sugar. 1 lb wheat flour. 

1 gal whites of eggs. 

MACAROONS— COCOANUT (2.) 
4 ft)S grated cocoanut. 8 ft)S sugar. 

2 lbs ground rice. 2i doz whites of eggs. 

MACAROONS— DROP. 
( Same as Almond Macaroons.) 

MACAROONS— DUTCH. 

2 tt)S fine icing sugar. J ft> ground sweet almonds. 

Beat in a mortar with a little orange flower water and 
white of eggs for about ten minutes, so that the paste will 
be firm enough to roll out into small balls ; egg slightly 
with yolk of eggs ; roll them in nonpariels ; lay on cartridge 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



128 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

paper as for Swiss macaroons ; next day bake in a cool oven ; 
when cool, decorate with little dots of dried cherries and 
angelica, stuck with Koyal icing. 

MACAROONS— ENGLISH. 

1 ft) ground sweet almonds. 1 tablespoon ful orange flow- 

IJ Rs sifted sugar. er water. 

A little lemon zest 

Form into a paste with the white of eggs by beating in a 
mortar ; lay out in an oval form with the biscuit bag, on 
wafer paper, about an inch apart; dust over very slightly 
with sugar ; bake in a moderate oven. 

MACAROONS— FILBERT. 
} fb filbert kernels, scalded A few drops essence of al- 
and blanched. monds. 
1} lbs sifted sugar. 

Pound the kernels in a mortar with a little white of egg» 
to a paste; add the sugar and flour; beat well together; 
have the paste firm, so as to form easily into balls about the 
size of a walnut; lay on wafer paper and bake to a light 
brown. 

MACAROONS— FRENCH. 

1 lb fiour. f ft ground almonds. 

1} tt)S sugar. I doz whites of eggs. 

Roll in long round pieces ; cut off in sizes desired ; pan 
and bake. 

MACAROONS-FRENCH JELLY, 
1 lb blanched almonds gr'd. 2 oz fiour. 
1 pt whites of eggs. 2 J lbs sugar. 

Lay out ou paper in long strips so that two of them will 
join; bake in a moderate oven; when done, draw a line 
down the centre, and place jelly in the mark; ice with 
wine-icing ; when cold cut in diamond shapes. 

MACAROONS— FRUIT. 
Use SpaniBb macaroons; place a small dot of preserves 

upon each njacaroon. 



Digitized by LjOO^IC 



FOBMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 129 

MACAROONS—GERMAN. 
(Same as Macaroons— Bitter Almond.) 

MACAROONS— GREEN. 
Proceed as for White Macaroons, substituting blanched 
pistachios, instead of almonds. 

MACAROONS-GROUND-NUT. 
1 ft) blanched ground nuts. 1 oz flour. 
1 doz whites of eggs. Mace or nutmeg to flavor. 

2i fi>s sugar. 

Lay out as for almond macaroons ; dust with sugar; bake 
in a medium oven. 

MACAROONS— IMITATION 
4 Ifos flour 4 lbs sugar. 

1 ft butter. Bitter almond flavor. 

10 or 12 eggs. 
Proceed as for macaroons. 

MAC AROONS— ITALIAN. 
Same paste as for Swedish macaroons; spread } inch 
thick on wafer paper placed on baking sheets ; bake of a 
light color ; when done, and before cold, stamp out in the 
form of leaves, crescents, etc.; bend them across a rolling 
pin, and when thoroughly cold and crisp, remove and put 
in tin canisters. 

MACAROONS— ITALIAN IMITATION. 

16 lbs flour. f oz ammonia. 

2J lbs butter. Oil almonds to flavoi 

8 lbs powdered sugar. 1 pint eggs. 

2J lbs ground almonds. Milk to make a light dough. 

2J lbs ground rice. 

Wash over with the white of eggs and dust with pow- 
dered sugar. 

MACAROONS— LEMON. 
1 % powdered sugar. 1 oz flour. 

4 eggs. Nutmeg and cinnamon to 

Zest and juice of 4 or 5 lem- flavor. 

ons. 
Lay out on paper, dusted with sugar. 
9 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



130 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

MACAROONS-MOIST. 
Beat i fi> blanched Jordan Almonds to a paste, with a 
tablespoon ful of orange-flower water ; put this into a sugar 
boiler, add f fc sugar ; stir over the fire until it strings ; let 
it partly cool ; then add two whites of eggs ; 1 oz green 
angelica, cut up ; 2 ozs candied orange-peel, chopped very 
fine; lay out in rounds with the biscuit bag, on wafer 
paper; bake in a moderate oven. 

MACAROONS-ORANGE. 
Same as Lemon Macaroons, substituting orange zeet in 
place of lemon zest. 

MACAROONS— PEANUT. 

( See Macaroons— Groundnut.) 

MACAROONS— RUSSIAN. 
i ft) flour. 3 eggs. 

I ft) sugar. Pinch of ammonia. 

i ft) almonds. Mixed spices to flavor. 

Roll out in small ovals ; glaze with the whites of eggs ; 
bake of a light fawn color. 

MACAROONS— SOUFFLES. 
(See Souffles— Almond.) 

MACAROONS— SPANISH. 

Boil 1 ft) sugar to the blow; add J lb ground almonds ; 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls orange-flower water; a teaspoonful of ground 
cinnamon, and the zest of two oranges; stir thisover a slow 
flre for a few minutes; then add 12 yolks of eggs, and keep 
stirring over a quicker fire until it assumes a stiff paste; 
roll into balls ; lay out on cartridge paper ; bake in a quick 
oven. 

MACAROONS— SPICE. 
To macaroon mixture — Almond (1.) add mixed spices; 
strew over the top, slices of ginger, and lemon and orange 
peels. 

MACAROONS— SWEDISH. 
1 lb fine sugar. } lb corn flour, 

lb sweet almonds in shreds. 2 eggs, 
lb sweet almonds ground. Zest of two oranges. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 131 

Mix thoroughly; roll out the size of small walnuts; 
place on wafer paper on baking sheets ; bake in a moderate 
oven of a light color. 

MACAROONS— SWISS. 

1 J lbs sifted flour. A tablespoon orange flower 

Jtb ground sweet almonds. water. 

A little lemon zest. 

Beat up in a mortar with sufficient white of egg to make 
a paste stifl" enough to form into balls; roll them in rough 
sugar ; lay them on cartridge paper, about 2 inches apart ; 
bake in a cool oven : they will bake in the form of rocks. 

MACAROONS— TURKISH. 
Use macaroon mixture (1); in place of slices of almonds, 
strew loaf sugar on the top, and glace over with chocolate 
icing. 

MAC AROONS— VERS A fLLES. 
li lbs ground almonds. 18 whites of eggs. 

3 lbs sugar. Oil bitter almonds to flavor. 

MACAROONS— VICTORIA. 
8 ozs burnt almonds. 1 oz candied orange flowers. 

10 ozs sugar. Whites of two eggs. 

Drop in round ovals upon a buttered baking sheet 

MACAROONS— WAFER. 
Cut some wafer paper into ovals with a cutter made for 
the purpose ; spread each piece of paper with some maca- 
roon paste; strew over with chopped almonds; lay them 
on arched tins ; bake in a moderate oven ; when cold, put 
in tin cannisters. 

MACAROONS— WHITE. 
6 ozs Jordan almonds, 10 ozs sifted sugar, 
blanched and shred across. 2 whites of eggs. 
}1b ground almonds. A little essence of Noyau. 

Lay out oft wafer paper with a desert spoon about th€ 
size of a walnut, 1^ inches apart ; moisten the finger with 
water and place in the centre, to keep them of a circular 
form ; bake in a moderate oven of a very light color. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



132 FORMULiB AND MEMORAMDA. 

MACHINE CRACKERS. 
16 lbs flour. 3J lbs butter. 

1 pt milk. 1 &» sugar. 
Cut with round or square cutters. 

MADISON CAKE. 

2 lbs seedless raisins cut in 1 pt sour milk. 

half. 1 gill brandy. 

1| fibs flour. A pinch of soda. 

1 fib butter. CiunamoQ and nutm^ to 

1 lb sugar. flavor. 

Bake in a deep circular pan ; ice with Royal icing. 

MADELAINES. 

i ft) flour. i doz eggs. 

J ft) sugar. 1 gill brandy. 

t ft) butter. Cinnamon to flavor. 

Mix into a batter that will almost run ; bake in greased 
muffin pans ; cover each cake with transparent icing and 
add a few colored comflts. 

MADEIRA CAKE. 
1 ft) flour. i ft) butter (slightly melted,) 

1 ft) sugar. A little lemon zest. 

1 doz eggs. 

Put into a round, papered cake-hoop; place on top three 
slices of citron, cut thin ; dust a little sugar over the top. 

MADRID BISCUIT. 

1 fib Oswego prepared corn. Yolks of J doz eggs. 

2 ozs melted butter. } gill best brandy. 

1 oz orange zest. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Form into a paste and make into the shape of small 
twists; lay them on buttered baking sheets; slightly egg 
them over ; bake in a quick oven. 

MAGDALEN CAKE. 
1 ft) flour. 1 pt eggs. 

1 ft) sugar. Salt to taste. 

1 ft) butter. . Lemon zest to flavor. 

Bake in small moulds about half full ; when done turn 
out on a sheet of clean paper and put into the oven again 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUIiJE AND MEMORANDA. 133 

for a few minutes. Different shaped moulds may be used 
to produce variety. 

MAGDALEN CAKES-STUFFED. 
Proceed as for Magdalen cake ; empty the inside of each 
cake with the point of a knife, and insert in the cavity, 
either pastry cream or sweatmeats. 

MAGNUM BONUM BISCUIT. 
Proceed as for Peach biscuits glaces, keeping the size and 
form to the shape of large plums ; use plum or damson jam 
to stick the halves together, and also to make a glace with 
high colored transparent icing, using carmine mixed with 
a very little ultramarine blue to give the plum color; when 
dry, add the bloom with fine sugar very lightly laid on in 
places, with a camePs hair brush. 

MAID OF HONOR CAKE. 
Same as Yorkshire cream cake. 

MATZENA CRACKERS. 
Same as Corn-Strach crackers. 

MARANGS. 

58»s pulverized sugar. 1 qt whites of eggs. 

Beat up and lay out a little larger than for Kisses; when 
cold take out the soft inside and fill with vanilla ice cream. 
The refuse may be crumbled up and used for Rosialine cake. 

MARBLED CAKE (1.) 
( See Block Cake.) 

MARBLED CAKE (2.) 

LIGHT MIXTUBB. DABK MIXTXrBB. 

J ft) butter. } lb butter. 

t It) sugar. } ft> brown sugar. 

I fit) flour. Jlbflour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Lemon flavor. Yolks of 4 eggs. 

Whites of 4 eggs. 1 gill milk. 

1 gill milk. Cinnamon, cloves and all- 



Proceed as for Block cake. 



spice to flavor. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



134 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

MARMOR TART. 
i ft) ground almonds. J lb flour. 

1 doz eggs. Lemon zest. 
1} lbs sugar. 

Make into a dough, which divide into three equal parts; 
color one with chocolate, rubbed fine, and another with a 
little cochineal, rose flavor; put the three shades of dough 
in tart form, round like a jelly cake pan ; bake and sieve 
with sugar. 

MARSEILLES BISCUIT. 
Whites of eight eggs, well Jib fine sugar. 

beaten. J fc flour. 

Lay out in small ovals upon waxed baking sheets ; strew 
burnt almonds over the top and bake quickly of a light 
color. 

MARSEILLES NOUGAT. 
(See Nougat.) 

MARYLAND BISCUIT (1.) 
(See Beat Biscuit.) 

MARYLAND BISCUIT (2.) 
i gal water. Salt to taste. 

2 lbs butter or lard. Flour to make a very tight 
4 or 5 ft)S old dough left from dough. 

yesterday's baking. 

Brake well; cut into pieces the size of a walnut; mould 
tight and round ; dot on the top with a wire dotter, or with 
initials. 

MARYLAND CAKES. 

Roll out thin, Savoy or sugar cake dough ; cut and place 
on small pastry pans; cover with a thin coating of jelly ► 
on the jelly put about a tablespoonful of a filling made by 
beating up stiff the whites of eggs with sugar and un- 
blanched almonds; flavor with cinnamon, mace and lemon 
zest, adding a few strips of citron, cut flne; sift over with 
sugar and bake in a moderate oven. 

MARYLAND SNAPS.* 
16 lbs flour. i lb ginger. 

1 gal molasses. 6 ozs soda. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 135 

6} lbs sugar. 1 pt water. 

Sl lbs lard. 

MASSEPATNS—PLAIN. 
12 ozs Jordan almonds. 1^ lbs sifted sugar. 

1 oz bitter almonds. Whites of 4 eggs. 

Scald, skin, wash and dry the almonds; pound them 
thoroughly in a mortar with the whites of eggs until com- 
pletely pulverized; mix in the sugar by pounding, and 
take up the paste in a basin, bearing in mind that this must 
be kept ver^/ ftrm, but in case it should be soft, add sugar 
enough to make it firmer. 

Fill a macaroon-forcer with some of the paste; replace 
the wedge and push out the massepains by directing the 
forcer along the table, previously strewn with sifted sugar 
to prevent sticking; cut the forced ribs in lengths of 2 or 3 
inches ; twist them into shapes upon sheet wafer laid upon 
baking sheets; arrange in the forms of rings, hearts, dia- 
monds, spades, clubs, esses, triangles, and figures from one 
to twenty-eight; bake of very light color. 

MASSEPAINS— SOUFFLES. 
12 ozs Jordan almonds. 1 oz vanilla sugar. 

1 oz bitter almonds. Whites of 3 eggs. 

IJ flbs sifted sugar. 

Prepare the paste as for Massepains; when taken up iii 
the basin, mix in Royal icing made from the white of one 
egg, remembering that this paste must be kept quite firm! 
lay out in rings only. 

MAUDLIN CAKE. 
Same as Magdalen Cake. 

MEAT-BREAD. 

1 % raw beef chopped fine. 2 to 2 J ft>s flour. 

Make a ferment with water and yeast and proceed as for 
ordinary bread. During the process of making and baking 
the meat entirely disappears, the nutritive principles be- 
coming incorporated with the bread. The meat would also 
appear capable of preservation for an indefinite period in 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



136 FORMULA. AND MEMORANDA. 

its new state, for loaves of in eat bread made in 1873 were 
lately submitted to the French Academy of Science, when 
not a trace of worms or mouldiness was observeable. The 
meat must be carefully deprived of fat, and only have suf- 
ficient salt to bring out the flavor, as salt by absorbing 
moisture from the air would tend to spoil the bread. A part 
of the beef may be replaced with advantage by salt lard, 
which is found to improve the flavor. Bread made with a 
suitable proportion of veal is said to furnish excellent soup 
for the sick and wounded. 

MEGE MOURIES WHITE BREAD. 

(Without Cerealin.) 

The wheat is moistened with 2 to 5 per cent, of water 
saturated with sea-salt, and at the end of some hours the 
exterior coverings only become moist and tender. The 
grain is then thrown between nearly closed millstones and 
70 per cent, of flour is obtained without cerealin, plus 10 to 
14 per cent, of meal. This is bruised between light stones, 
and separated by winnowing from the greater part of the 
husk remnants. 

To prepare the bread, all the leaven is made with flour at 
70 per cent., and the meal is added to the soft dough last of 
all; as, in spite of the small amount of cerealin which 
it still contains, it will not produce brown bread, because at 
that time the length of incubation is not sufficient to 
change it into a leaven. Thus white bread is produced 
containing all the farinaceous part of the wheat. 

MELON CAKE. 
Make a Savoy cake mixture (cold method) and half fill a 
prepared melon mould ; bake in a moderate oven ; next 
day mask the cake over with Royal icing, and roll it in 
very rough sugar; when set, color one side with extract of 
spinach ; and the other with a light infusion of saffron, 
imitating the shade of a ripe melon ; stick on the top a stalk 
made of Almond Rout cake paste, shaded, and a large 
artificial leaf. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 137 

MENIERE CAKE. 
Use Diet cake mixture; bake in carefully greased jelly 
cake tins; spread any kind of fruit jam or jelly in a thick 
layer over them ; over this place Almond cake (1) baked in 
same shape; ice with transparent icing. 

MERINGUES (1.) 
1 doz whites of eg^?, per- 1 lb sifted sugar, 
fectly free from the least 
particle of yolk. 
Whisk the whites in a copper egg bowl ; mix in the sugar 
gr..dually, lightly, yet thoroughly incorporating it, using a 
spoon for the purpose, and proceed to lay them out. Cut 
some sheets of fools-cap paper into bands two inches wide; 
take a tablespoon and gather it nearly full of the composi- 
tion by working it up at the side of the bowl in the form of 
an egg; drop this slopingly upon the end of one of the 
bands of the paper, at the same time drawing the edge of 
the spoon sharply round the base of the meringue, so as to 
give it a smooth and rounded appearance, resembling an 
egg; fill the band of paper with a row of meringues, one 
inch apart. As each band is so filled, place them close be- 
side each other upon the table ; when all are completed, 
dredge sifted flour over them; after allowing them to re- 
main three minutes, take hold of the bands at each end, 
shake off the excess of loose sugar, an(f place the bands in 
close rows upon the wetted boards; as soon as the sugar 
begins to dissolve on the surface, push them in the oven 
(very modetate heat) and bake them of a light fawn color. 
When done, remove each piece separately off the paper ; 
use a dessert-spoon to scoop out the white soft part, and 
with the point of the bowl of the spoon smooth the insides 
of the meringues ; after this, place rounded side downwards 
upon baking sheets to dry the insides in the oven, and 
when thoroughly crisp, keep them between sheets of papei 
in a tin box in a very dry place. 

When using meringues garnish them with whippeo 
cream flavored with vanilla, orange, lemon, etc., orange- 
flower water, or any liqueur, sticking two halves together. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



138 FORMULA A>D MEMORANDA. 

It is impossible to perfectly bake meringues without 
meringvs-boardB^ made of well-seasoned hard wood, with 
rounded corners, and of convenient size, about 1} inches 
thick. The boards must be thoroughly dampened with 
water previously to placing the bands of paper containing 
the meringues upon them. 

IMERINGUES (2.) 
J ft powdered sugar. Whites of 4 eggs. 

Proceed as for meringues (1). Great expedition is neces- 
sary in making, as if the meringues are not put into the 
oven as soon as the sugar and eggs are mixed, the former 
melts and the mixture would run on the paper, instead of 
keeping its egg shape. The sweeter the meringues are 
made, the crisper they will be ; if, however, there is not 
sufficient sugar mixed with them, they will most likely be 
tough. 

Meringues are often colored with cochineal, and if kept 
well covered and in a day place, they will keep from four 
to six weeks. 

MERINGUES (3.) 
Make about 1 pt of clear white sugar syrup, boiling it 
slowly till it begins to bubble; test it by rubbing a silver 
spoon against the pCib^ when at the proper moment it turns 
quite white. Whisk the whites of J doz eggs in a copper 
vessel and pour them into the boiled sugar (this must be 
done quickly or the sugar is likely to cake); mix the whole 
into a stiff batter or paste, and lay large egg-shaped spoon* 
fuls of it, about an inch apart, on slips of paper, laid on a 
long narrow board of wood, having been previously moisf- 
eued to prevent the meringues from becoming hard and 
dry ; sift freely powdered sugar over the whole ; as soon as 
it dissolves, place the board in a rather cool oven, and 
carefully watch them rise, the outside shining a little, and 
becoming slightly set and clouded with brown, but the 
inside remaining moist; slip out in a few moments; strip 
off the paper with a broad knife and place a small pat of 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 139^ 

preserves or jelly on the flat side, so as to stick it fast to an- 
other half, thus forming a complete egg-shaped meringue* 

MEBINGUES— CAULIFLOWERS. 
Fill a biscuit-forcer with Italian meringue paste; push 
this out upon bands of paper, in knobs or large dots, super- 
posed or mounted, one upon the other in such form, that 
when complete it shall represent as nearly as possible, the 
head or white part of a cauliflower (on a very diminished 
scale of course, the size of a pigeon^s egg^ for instance) ; thi& 
part of the cauliflower, when fashioned, is to be sprinkled 
over with rather coarse granite sugar. The under part, or 
green leaves, which envelope a cauliflower, are imitated in 
a somewhat similar manner, by pushing out the paste in 
pointed dots upon bands of paper, in the manner and form 
as directed for the heads, only somewhat flatter; these are 
to be sprinkled with green granite sugar; and when both 
parts have been dried in the closet orscreeu, stick the head 
or white part upon the leafy or green part. 

MERINGUES— CHOCOLATE. 

i doz eggs. 6 tablespoons corn-flour. 

1 lb sugar. 5 ozs chocolate. 

1 qt milk. ' Vanilla flavor. 

Break up the chocolate; put it into a pan and having 
nearly covered it with milk, place it where it can heat very 
gently ; as it dissolves, stir it into a smooth paste, adding 
the milk gradually and stirring until it arrives at the scald- 
ing point. Then, having mixed the corn-flour with 2 or 8. 
spoonsful of milk, pour it slowly in, and keep stirring until 
the whole is of the consistency of very thick boiled custard ; 
set it aside to cool a little before putting in the vanilla, and 
turning the rich brown creamy compound into small glass 
dishes, about half filled. Having allowed them to cooU 
cover the contents with a layer of white meringue batter,, 
made with the remaining sugar and eggs (the sugar being 
boiled to a syrup and the eggs beaten up and dropped sud- 
denly into it, as described for Meringues (3) ; this should be 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



140 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

poured on so as to stand up in little snowy peaks, which 
can be very slightly browned and set, by holding a hot 
shovel over them. 

MERINGUES— CREAM-ICED. 
Made smaller than ordinary meringues, about the size of 
a pigeon's egg; fill very neatly with stifle whipped cream, 
taking care that when two halves are closed together none 
of the cream is allowed to ooze over the edges; or, if it 
should do so, wipe it off; when the meringues are all 
creamed, hold each separately on a silver fork and dip them 
all over in transparent icing. 

MERINGUES — CREAM-ICED WITH PRESERVES. 
Same as Meringues — Cream-iced, with the addition of 
some kind of preserves, which are to be thinly spread in- 
side the meringues before filling them with cream. 

MERINGUES— GRAPES. 
In preparing Italian meringue paste give it a rose-pinh 
blush tint by adding a few drops of prepared cochineal; 
use this paste to fill a biscuit-forcer with which to form the 
bunches of grapes, by pushing out the meringue paste in 
drops or pearls of dittereut sizes, so grouped and arranged 
on bands of paper as to represent small bunches of grapes. 
The leaves and stalks are easily imitated by cutting thin 
lozenges, or as they are called, diamonds, of green angelica ; 
by placing five of these with the points of one end converg- 
ing towards the stalk of the bunch of grapes, the leaf is 
imitated to a certain extent; stick a thin shred of angelica 
in at the base of this for the stalk. 

MERINGUES— ITALIAN. 

1 J tt)S sugar. Any kind of flavor. 

Whites of 4 eggs. 

Boil the sugar to the blow (240° Fahr.) ; and then stand 
the sugar-boiler in a soup-plate containing cold water; whip 
the whites of the eggs into a stiff, snowy froth ; and having 
worked the sugar with the back part of the bowl of a table- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 141 

spoon continuously up and against the side of the pan, 
fetching it up from the bottom at the same time in order 
that the whole of the sugar may be equally worked so as 
to become semi-opalized, add the whipped whites, and after- 
wards the juice of a lemon, and a liqueur glass of any kind 
of liqueur; thoroughly, though lightly, mix all together. 
As the paste cools, it will become sufficiently firm to lay 
out as ordinary meringues, except they should as a general 
rule be smaller. They are made into an infinite variety of 
shapes, with a biscuit-forcer, such as hearts, rings, trefoils, 
crescents, diamonds, grapes, etc.; and the paste may be 
colored rose-pink with cochineal, yellow with saflron, and 
brown with chocolate, etc. Italian meringues require to be 
dried rather than baked, due care being taken previously 
to using the oven to ascertain that the heat is not sufficient 
to color a piece of white paper. 

As the proportion of sugar is greater in these than in the 
ordinary meringues, they do not require dredging after 
being shaped, yet when fruits or vegetables are to be imi- 
tated in different colors, granite sugars are sprinkled on 
their surface. In all ordinary cases as soon as their sur- 
faces have become sufficiently dry to admit of a slight 
pressure of the finger without giving way, remove them 
from the oven ; use a broad-bladed knife with rounded tip 
to lift them off the paper, the first half so lifted to be laid 
upon its back in the palm of the left hand, gently with- 
drawing the knife without damaging its form ; remove the 
following half from the paper, placing it upon that already 
in the left hand and gently press both together ; lastly set 
the now perfected ring, heart, etc., out of the hand upon a 
wire tray to be further dried for a few minutes. 

MERINGUES— ITALIAN, GARNISHED. 
Italian Meringue Paste. 
Lay out in the form and size of a pigeon^s egg; when 
dry, and previous to sticking the two halves together, use 
a teaspoon to scoop out a part of their interiors ; fill with 
fruit or preserves; close and allow to become hard without 
further exposure to heat of any kind. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



142 FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 

MERINGUES— ITALIAN WITH TRANSPARENT 

ICING. 
Proceed as for Italian meringues, garnished, dipping each 
one in transparent icing. 

MERINGUES— MUSHROOMS. 
Itialian Meringue Paste. 
With a biscuit- forcer pusli out the paste in the form of 
small long-corl?8 and round drops, on stiff paper ; sprinkle 
these over slightly with grated chocolate and dry them in 
the closet or screen ; stick two of the elongated pieces rc- 
sembliug corks together, to represent the stalks; run the 
narrowest end of these into the underpart of the drops, and 
by this means, the mushroom will be imitated. The broad 
-end, or base of the stalk, should be firstdipped in the white 
of eggs, and then in grated chocolate, to more perfectly imi- 
tate nature, by adding as a last touch, the imitation of the 
dark mould which adheres to the stalks. 

MERINGUES— STRAWBERRIES. 
Italian Meringue Paste. 
With the biscuit-forcer first push out any number of 
large pointed dots, resembling strawberries; sprinkle over 
with rather coarse granite sugar, composed of five parts 
deep pink color and one-sixth part yellow, well mixed; 
the leafy stalks are to be imitated by using a small cornet 
to pipe or push out small circular rows of pointed dots, 
upon paper, which are to be sprinkled with green granite 
sugar; when both are sufficiently diied, stick the straw- 
berry in the centre of the leafy stalk. 

MERINGUES— SWISS. 
Spread the mixture in the shape of crowns, four in a set; 
dust with sugar and bake ; place them on a dish one above 
the other, filling the middle of dish with cream. 

MILANESE BATONS. 

8 ozs flour. 1 tablespoon vanilla sugar. 

5 ozs sugar. Salt to taste. * 

2 eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 143 



Divide into about twenty-four equal parts ; use flour to 
roil them out in the form of small sticks ; press down the 
ends on the baking sheet to make them retain their straight 
position. 

MILK BISCUIT. 

Same as Soda biscuit, using a little more lard. 

MILK BISCUIT— ENGLISH. 
Ifi lbs flour. IJ ozs saleratus. 

2 lbs butter. li ozs ammonia. 

i lb sugar. li ozs salt. 

IJ ozs tartaric acid. About 3 qts water. 

Cut with milk cutter i inch thick. 

MILK BREAD. 
This is made in moulds of sheet-iron, 4 inches on the bot- 
tom, increasiug to 7 inches on the top, 8 inches high, hav- 
ing lids on them ; bake in the pans ; when done it is cracked 
-open on top like a cake. 

MILK CRACKERS. 
Same as Milk biscuit. 

MILK-EMPTYING BREAD. 
(See Salt-Rising Bread.) 

MILK ROLLS. 
Proceed as for Fancy bread, using milk in place of water; 
mould round and place in roll-tins ; prove and bake in a 
sharp oven. 

MIXED BREADS. 

A good bread is made by mixing equal quantities of rye 
and wheat flours and rice-paste. 

Also, rye, wheat and barley. 

Also, Indian corn and wheat. 

A good bread of delicious flavor is made of ten parts 
wheat, five parts potato flour, and one part rice-paste. 

Rice cannot be made into bread, nor can potatoes; but J 
potato flour to i wheat, makes a tolerable loaf. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



144 formi/ljbaj^d memoranda. 

' .->"-■ 1^ ■ 

MOLASSES CAKE (1.) 

2 ga]s molasses. - 18 ozs saleratus. 
4 qts water. Flour suflacient. 

3 lbs lard. 

MOLASSES CAKE (2.) 
lib -flour. i gill milk. 

i lb butter. 1 e^g, 

I lb sugar. A little soda. 

1 gill molasses. 
Bake in cake tin. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

(See Cookies.) 

MOLASSES CUP CAKE. 

1 qt molasses. 2 ozs soda. 

1 qt water. ' 3 eggs.' 

3J lbs flour. Spices to flavor; 

14 ozs lard. 
Mix and bake in small tins ; make the dough ra4;her tight.. 

MOLASSES DROP CAKE. 

16 lbs flour. 3 lbs lard. 

1 gal N. O. molasses. IJ lbs A sugar. 

3 qts water. 4 ozs mixed spices. 

8 ozs soda. 1 oz oil lemon. 

MOLASSES FROSTED CREAM CAKES. 
12 lbs flour. 1 oz soda. 

1 lb moist sugar. J oz ammonia. 

1 lb lard. 

Mix into an easy dough with half molasses and water; 
roll out i inch thick, and cut with square or long square 
cutters ; when baked, and as they are taken from the oven 
and are yet hot, wash them over with icing, which will 
dry on them. 

MOLASSES GINGER CAKE. 

4 gallons molasses. 2 gals water. 

9 lbs lard . 1 J lbs saleratus. 

2 lbs ginger. Flour to make a soft dough.^ 

MOSS CAKE. 

6 lbs flour. 1 doz eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMUIiJE AND MEMORANDA. 145 

2 lbs butter. Oil leinou to flavor. 

2 ibs sugar. 

Make a stiff, smooth paste ; take pieces the size of an egg 
and push them through a sieve and form into -bunches to 
resemble moss ; bake a delicate brown, in a. moderate oven; 
on buttered pans. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. . . _. 
1 J lbs flour. 3 yelks. 

i% butter. 1 gill milk. 

1 tt> sugar. Vanilla to flavor. 

3 whole eggs. 

Mix into a smooth, light batter ; bake in a shallow, square 
pan ; when cold cover the top with the following : beat up 
\% currant jelly with i% sugar and the whites of 8 eggs 
until light and stiff. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE— WHITE. 
(See White Mountain Cake.) 

MUFFINS. 
See under appropriate headings, as : 

Boston. Fruit. Rye. 

Bread. Graham. Sally Lun. 

Corn. Hominy. Sugar. 

English. Oatmeal. Swiss. 

French. Rice. Yorkshire. 

MUFFINS (1.) 
Put l}9>s flour into a basin ; make a hollow in the centre, 
add therein 1 oz German yeast sponge, and a pinch of salt; 
let it rise, then form into a soft dough with half milk and 
water; let it rise in the basin, and beat it smooth ; have 
ready a tray spread with flour about 2} inches thick ; make 
impressions in the flour with a smooth breakfast cup ; take 
portions of the lij?ht dough out with a large spoon, and put 
them in the flour impressions (o rise ; have a large griddle, 
make it hot, lift the muflSns out of the flour, and put on the 
griddle or muffin stone; let them bake for a few minutes; 
pass the palate knife under, turn them over on the other 
side, and bake likewise, keeping them of a light color. 
10 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



146 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

^ MUFFINS (2.) 
1 pt milk. 1 tablespoonful yeast, 

J^'Iour to make a stiff batter. A little salt. 
Let it rise; bake in rings on a hot griddle, over a hot oven; 

MUFFINS (3.) 

1 qt milk. A little salt. 

1} ozs German yeast. Flour. 

Warm the milk, add yeast and mix well ; put in a pan 
and stir in sufficient flour to make a rather soft dough ; 
cover over with a cloth, and place it in a warm place to rise; 
when light and nicely risen, divide the dough into pieces, 
and round them to the proper shape; place them in a layer 
of flour about 2 inches thick, in wooden trays and let them 
rise again ; when this is effected, they each will exhibit a 
semi-globular shape. Then place them carefully on a hot 
plate or stone, and bake till slightly browned, turning them 
when they are done on one side. 

MUFFINS (4.) 

1 qt flour. 2 ozs butter. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 1 pt sweet milk. 

i lb sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Bake in muffin rings on the top of a range, or in gem 
pans in a quick oven. 

NAPLES BISCUIT. 
1 ft) flour. 8 eggs. 

1 tt> sugar. Essence of lemon to flavor. 

Lay out on pans, the size of walnuts. 

NAPLES DROPS. 
Proceed with mixture as for Savoy biscuit (cold method) 
laying them out with a biscuit bag the size of a twenty-flve 
cent piece; sift them over with sugar through a lawn sieve; 
bake in a quick oven, and join them together with apricot 
jam. 

NAVY BREAD. 
(See Shifts Biscuit:) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 147 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE (1.) 
A layer of Lady cake, J Id ch thick. 
A layer of Chocolate cake, J inch thick. 
A layer of Pound cake, J inch thick. 
Ice with pink icing and cut in square blocks. The cho- 
colate cake is made by putting grated chocolate in the Lady 
cake dough. 

, NEAPOLITAN CAKE (2.) 
Prepare some Pastrafrolle paste ( wiiich see) ; roll thin ; 
^tamp out twenty-four circular plats, about five inches in 
diameter; bake upon buttered baking sheets; when done, 
press them flat on the slab with a dish containing a 141b 
^i^eight upon it. The whole of the twenty-four flats are to 
he laid upon each other, stuck together with jam between 
«ach, so as to form a firm file, representing one cake; trim 
the sides level and smooth ; mask the whole surface with 
apricot jam, and decorate with some elegant design formed 
with Royal icing piped over it. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKES, WHITE GLACE. 
Prepare PavStrafrolle paste ; roll thin ; stamp out any given 
number of small round, oval, square, oblong, or any other 
fancy shaped flats; place these in rows on thinly buttered 
baking plates, and bake them in a moderate heat; when 
done, stick two together with any kind of preserves ; mask 
their surfaces with similar preserves, and glace them over 
with any kind of transparent icing. These cakes may be 
decorated with ornamental piping. 

NEAPOLITAN PASTRAFROLLE, ICED WITH 
CHOCOLATE. 

Prepare the small flats as for Neapolitan cakes, white 
glace; stick together in the same manner, and glace them 
with transparent chocolate icing. 

NELSON BALLS. 

3fi)S flour. i lb butter. 

} lb sifted sugar. Essence of lemon to flavor. 

Mix up very stiff with milk; place in a cloth for a half 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



148 FORMUIiwE AND MEMORANDA, 

hour; break smooth with a biscuit break; mould into small 
balls about the size of a walnut; bake in a rather quick 
oven, and put in a warm place to dry. 

NEW ORLEANS CORN BREAD. 
(See Corn Bread.) 

NEW YORK BREAD. 
Mix equal parts of potato-starch and pnlped potatoes; 
work them into a dough over night, adding the proper 
quantity of yeast; the next morning work the same quan- 
tity of potato-starch, mashed potatoes and wheat-flour, add- 
ing as much hot water as may be required ; let stand to 
rise; work well and mould into round-shaped loaves; let 
stand a couple of hours and bake on the hearth. 

NIC-NACS (1.) 
16 lbs flour. 1} ozs soda. 

2} lbs »ugar. J oz tartaric acid. 

IJ lbs lard or butter. Oil lemon to flavor, 

i gal sour milk. 
Cut with Nic-nac cutters. 

NIC-NACS (2.) 
2 lbs flour. 4 ozs flne loaf sugar. 

2 fb butter. 

Make into a stifi" paste with milk ; roll out thin and cut 
into fancy shapes; brush with a little milk; bake in a 
quick oven ; when done, glace with brush dipped in egg. 

NONE-SUCH CRACKERS. 

16 lbs flour. IJ ozs tartaric acid. 

4 lbs butler. IJ ozs ammonia. 

} lb sugar. if ozs salt 

IJ ozs saleratus. i gal water. 

Roll thin and cut with None-such cracker cutters. 

NONPAREIL CRACKERS. 

16 lbs flour. J lb ammonia. 

7i lbs sugar. 2 ozs soda. 

2f lbs butter. 3 pts eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 149 

If lbs lard. Flavor as desired. 

3 qts water and milk. 

Out with special cutters. Turn over on rough sugar candy. 

NONPAREILS. 

I lb blanched almonds. 2 eggs. 

1 lb pulverized sugar. Zest of 2 lemons. 

1 ft) flour. 

Mix into a stiff paste with a little orange-flower water ; 
cut olive shape, 1x2 inches; brush over with sugar and 
bake in a cold oven ; when done put them on a rolling-pin 
to form the shape of quarters of oranges. 

NORWEGIAN BREAD. 

} ft) barley meal. 1 pt milk. 

J ft) graham flour. Salt to taste. 

J ft) wheat flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Bake in square bread tins. 

NOUGAT (1.) 

1 % shred almonds, dried. 10 ozs sifted sugar. 

Place the almonds on a baking plate at the entrance of 
the open oven to make them hot through ; while the al- 
monds are being heated, place the sugar in a copper egg- 
bowl, and keep moving it about with a clean wooden spoon 
over a moderate fire until it begins to melt; as soon as the 
sugar begins to bubble throw in the almonds; mix gently 
And proceed to use the nougat to line thin, small, deep, 
fancy-shaped moulds previously oiled inside. As each 
mould is so lin<*d, cut the edges level before the nougat be- 
comes cold. A dozen or more of these nougats with an 
ornamented caramel sugar holder adapted to it, is often 
filled with whipped cream and a strawberry at the top of 
each basket, forming a very charming garnish. 

NOUGAT (2.) 

2 &>s almonds. 1 fi> sifted sugar. 

Scald and skin the almonds and dry them ; split each 
almond into halves and put them in the oven to brown ; 
place the sugar over a slow fire to melt ; as soon as it begins 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



150 FORMULA AND MEMOBAKDA. 

to bubble on the surface, throw the almonds in hot and mix 
with the sugar, care being taken not to break them in stfa:- 
riug. ( The boiler containing the nougat must be kept in a 
warm place until used up.)' Oil the mould or moulds 
wanted for use ; drop the nougat on a marble slab or baking 
sheet the size wanted, and press quickly inta the moulds 
with the fingers, as if it becomes cold it cannot be haiicQed 
without re-melting, which is to be particularly avoided* 

NOUGAT (3.) 
20 ozs almonds or pistachio i % sugar. 

nuts. Whites of 3 eggs» 

} lb honey, 1 gill orange-flower water. 

After boiling the sugar, pour in the melted honey and 
orange-flower water; stir well ; add this to the well-whipped 
whites of eggs, previously prepared in a large bowl ; stir it 
quickly until it forms a paste, (which is of a suflicient con- 
sistency when a spoonful dropped into quite cold water is 
easily snapped and broken in half) ; the almonds and pis- 
tachio nuts are then added ; and having been stirred into 
the paste, spread it out, forming a thick and sweet cake, on 
wafer paper, a sheet of which is also placed on the top; 
over this lay some clean letter paper, and press the whole 
down flat by a tin or baking plate; let eeol and eitt into 
slabs of about 2 inches square. 

NOUGAT— AMERICAN. 
l}&s either almonds, wal- 1 fib granulated sugar, 
nuts, filberts, Brazil 
nuts, etc. 
Scald the nuts, skin and dry them^ cut them into fine 
shreds and place them in the oven to color slightly; melt 
the sugar as for ordinary nougat, and stir in thenute; have 
the mould or slab previously CMlled ; if moulds are used, put 
some nougat in each and work up the sides to fill all the 
fluting; if the slab is used, spread out the nougat i inch 
thick ; sift granulated sugar over the surface, and before be- 
coming cold, mark in any shape desired. The nougat, if 
moulded, may be fllled with fruit, charlotte russe, whipped 
cream, etc. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOBMUL^ AND MEMORANDA. 151 

NOUGAT FOR ORNAMENTING. 

This is made by melting fine white sugar with a few 
drops of lemon juice; stir until it is melted and begins to 
boil; add an equal weight of blanched almonds, cut up 
coarse or fine, according to taste; when the ingredients are 
thoroughly incorporated, pour on a marble slab, slightly 
oiled, and cut into bars or sticks; when cold, it is ready 
for use. 

If the nougat is to be used to construct designs, it should 
be kept warm ; fiatten it on the slab with a rolling pih into 
a thin sheet; lay upon this the paste-board pattern and cut 
into pieces needf d for the design. These can be pasted to- 
gether with caramel sugar. It must be done quickly, while 
the nougat is in a hot state; if allowed to cool it becomes 
hard and brittle, and it is impossible to work it. 

NOUGAT— MARSEILLES. 

8 ozs honey. i gill orange-fiower water. 

8 ozs sugar. 6 sbeet» of white wafer. 

IJ lbs scalded and skinn«d 3 whites of eggs (well beat- 
almonds, en.) 

Melt and skim the honey; boil the sugar to the crack 
(250° Fahr.) ; add honey and orange-flower water, and then 
this by degrees to the whites, stirring all the time ; continue 
stirring over a slow fire until the paste arrives at a crack ; 
add the almonds, and spread out paste about 1 inch thick 
ui>on three of the sheet i of wafer previously placed upon a 
sheet of paper set upon a baking plate; cover with the re- 
maining three sheets of wafer; lay white paper over the 
top and over all a baking plate to press the nougat level. 
Cut in oblong squares IJxl inch and J inch thick. It is of 
a light brown color. 

NOUGAT— PARISIAN. 
8 ozs scalded and split pis- 6 ozs sugar. 

tachio kernels. A few drops ess. vanilla or 

A few drops prepared coehi- a teaspoon vanilla su- 

neal. gar. 

Boil the sugar to the crack (250° Fahr.) ; mix the other 

ingrediei^ and spread out on flat baking sheets, oiled ; a 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



152 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

hard Je^on, slightly oiled, should be used to flatten the 
Bougat to i inch ; before it. cools, sprinkle over with small 
nibs of rough broken sugar free from dust, and currants; 
. press these on with the finger; divide the sheet of nougat 
.whilje hot into small oblongs or diamonds, 1x2^ inches. 

NOVELTY SNAPS. 
16 fi>s flour. 2 qts water. 

2J ft>s lard. i oz soda. 

2i lbs sugar. J oz tartaric acid. 

2^ ozs salt. 

NUMERALS— CRACKERS. 
Same mixture as Alphabet crackers; cut with Numeral 
cutters. 

NUEREMBERG LECRELETS. 
8 ozs sifted sugar. i oz cinnamon. 

8 ozs flour. i oz coriander seed. 

6 ozs split almonds. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

4 ozs candied lemon peel, Whites of 4 eggs (whipped). 

cut very small. 2 ozs green citron peel. 

Lay out the size of large walnuts upon circular pieces of 
wafer paper and bake in a slack heat; when done, brush 
them over with thin white icing; place a bold cut lozenge 
of green citron upon each and dry them in the screen. 

NUT CAKE. 

10 ozs flour. 1 gill milk. 

6 ozs sugar. i ft) meat of any kind of 

2 ozs butter. nuts. 

i doz eggs. 
Bake in square cake pans. 

NUTS. 
See under appropriate headings, such as : 
Alexandra. Ginger. Rifle. 

Almond. Gratham. Spice. 

Gingerbread. Pinch. Etc., Etc. 

NURSERY BISCUIT. 
Make a ferment (see Savarin) of IJ ozs German yeast 
with a little flour and luke-warm water ; when ready, add 
6 ozs dissolved butter, 6 ozs powdered sugar, 3 pts K^ke-warni 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA ANI) •MEMORANDA. 15? 

milk ; form this into a fine smooth dough, with finigjljr sifted 
flour : — let it rise ; knead well anc} mould as for buns, mak-* 
ing them rather smaller than a billiard ball ; press them a . 
little at the top ; prove them well ; brush them over slightly * 
with milk; prick each one five times with a larding pin or* r 
skewer; bake in a quick oven ; when cold, dry well in the 
screen till crisp. When wanted for use, put one in a basin, 
pour boiling water over it, and the biscuit will swell up ; 
then pour the water oft\ add a very little sugar, beat up 
with a fork, and it is ready for use. 

OAT CAKE. 

Form some best Scotch oatmeal into a firm paste with 

cold water and a little salt; roll out (not too thin) ; cut into 

triangular shapes; slightly bake them on the griddle; dry 

them in front of the fire, so as to curl the cakes up a little. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

J lb oatmeal. Salt to taste. 

f lb flour. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

} pt milk. 

Boil the oatmeal in IJ pts salted water for an hour ; delute 
it with milk and set aside to get cold ; mix in the other in- 
gredients and pour into a square pan, well greased. 

OATMEAL CAKES (1.) 
(See Scotch Oatmeal Cakes.) 

OATMEAL CAKES (2.) 
Into 1 qt cold water, stir enough meal to make a soft 
smooth batter; put it on buttered tins where it can spread 
out to half the thickness of a common cracker; smooth it 
down with a knife; divide into convenient sizes ; bake in a 
warm oven, being careful not to brown it. 

OATMEAL CRACKERS (1.) 
16 lbs flour. li ozs ammonia. 

5 lbs oatmeal. 2 ozs soda. 

2 fbs brown sugar. 2 ozs salt. 

2 lbs lard. 1 qt ferment. 

Cut round or square as desired. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



154 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA 

OATMEAL CRACKERS (2.) 
i % very fine oatmeal. J oz salt. 

J lb graham flour. i oz sugar. 

i pt cream. i oz baking powder. 

OATMEAL CRACKNELS; 

( See Cracknels.) 

OATMEAL MUFFINS. 
i ft oatm«al. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

6 ozs wheat flour. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 pt milk. 

OATMEAL PUFFS. 
i lb oatmeal. i oz sugar. 

i % graham flour. Salt to taste. 

J lb flour. 6 eggs. 

1 pt milk. 
Mix into a thin batter and bake in gem pans. 

OATMEAL ROLLS. 

i fi> oa' meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

i tt) graham flour. f pt milk. 

i fb wheat flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Roll out } inch thick ; cut with large round cutter ; fold 
through the centre, laying one-half over the other ; lay 
them on a greased baking tin so that they do not touch ; 
wash over with milk. 

OATMEAL SNAPS (SCOTCH PERKINS.) 

16 lbs flour. fib soda. 

6} lbs oatmeal. 3 ozs ammonia. 

4^s sugar. 1 lb allspice. 

4 Bbs lard. 6} qts molasses^ 
Wash on the top with egg; cut small and pan loosely, as 
they spread a great deal. 

OLIVERS. 
16 lbs flour. 1 oz salt. 

4 lbs butter. } gallon water. 

Make with a sponge; cut with plain round or milk cut- 
ter, and let stand a little time before baking* 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 155 

OLIOS 

Are made like doughnins with the addition of strips of 
lemon peel mixed with the dough. 

OPERAS— CRACKERS. 
Use Corn-starch cracker mixture, and cut with Nio-nao 
cutters. 

ORANGE CAKE (1.) 
1 lb pulverized sugar. 1 orange. 

10 eggs. i % flour. 

Beat whites of the eggs with a little rose water; add 
sugar, the grated rind of the orange with the juice, and the 
yolks; lastly the flour; bake in a deep pan. By substitut- 
ing lemcn, in place of orange, lemon cake is made. 

ORANGE CAKE (2.) 
Proceed as directed for Cream cake (1), substituting orange 
marmalade for pastry cream. 

ORANGE CAKE (3.) 

lib sugar. 12 eggs. 

1 lb flour. 

Lay out in three round layers one inch thick ; bake and 
when done, slice i doz. oranges and lay them in between 
two layers with sugar on them ; put the three on top of one 
another; ice with white icing (flavored with vanilla) and 
ornament with candied oranges sliced around the border; 
in the centre touch off with ornamental icing. 

ORANGE CAKE (4.) 
1 lb sugar. 1 qt yolks of eggs. 

1 lb flour. 

Bake in shallow pans ; cut in blocks 1x3 inches; dip the 
top in icing flavored with orange. 

ORANGE DROPS. 
14 ozs flour. 8 eggs. 

i lb butter. Zest of 4 oranges. 

i lb sugar. 
Cream the butter; flll into small round Queen cake tins. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



166 FORMULJE AND MEMORANDA. 

ORANGE MACAROONS. 
(See Macaroons.) 

ORANGE WAFERS. 
Same mixture as Shrewsbury cake, flavoring strongly 
with orange ; cut with small round cutters. 

ORANGE WATER CAKES. 
Same as Ginger Water cakes, omitting the ginger and 
adding a sufficient quantity of oil orange to flavor, 

ORIDE CAKE 

Boil } lb sugar in 1 gill water ; stir it well ; add 7 well 
beaten eggs; beat the whole together until it rises and 
thickens in the beating, then add a little salt, and stir in 
lightly i% sifted flour; bake in a buttered pan one hour. 

OSWEGO CAKE. 

7 eggs. 6 ozs Oswego prepared com. 

I lb sifted sugar. i oz baking powder. 

Lemon zest to flavor. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar until very light; 
add the whites beat stifl"; lastly the corn and baking pow- 
der ; put into a prepared Savoy cake mould. 

OSWEGO CORN BISCUIT. 

16 lbs flour. 2 ozs amnion la. 

16 lbs corn starch. 2 ozs tartaric acid. 

^ %s sugar. i gal water. 

5 fi>s lard. 

OSWEGO FINGERS. 
16fts short flour. 1 pt eggs. 

] J lbs corn starch. 2J ozs soda. 

1 J lbs rice flour. 2} fcs granulated sugar. 

li lbs arrowroot. 1 1 ozs cream tartar, 

li lbs butter. 2i qts sweet milk. 

IJ lbs lard. 

OYSTER CRACKERS. 
Use butter or some other good cracker mixture; cut with 
oyster cutters. 

OYSTER-CRACKERS— PEARL. 
Use oyster cracker mixture ; cut with Pearl oyster-cracker 
cutters. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 157 

PAGANINIES. 

Savoy Cake Mixture. 

Make a round ring, about three inches in diameter; after 

being slightly baked, spread marmalade lightly over it; 

stick a red comfit in the centre ; glace over, and put in the 

oven to dry. 

PALMER CAKES. 
2 lbs flour. i gill rose water. 

1 lb butter. Juice of two lemons. 

I tb sugar. 1 oz cinnamon and nutmeg. 

} doz eggs. 

Cut with a round cutter; bake on greased pans in a 
moderate oven. 

PALACE CRACKERS OR JUMBLES. 
16 ft>s sugar. 4 qts milk. 

8 %a butter. 6 ozs ammonia. 

4 lbs lard. 1 oz oil lemon. 

64 eggs. 36 lbs soft winter flour. 

Cut as for Jumbles. 

PARIS BREAD— STEAMED. 
White Paris Bread Dough. 
Baked in an oven formed so as to present an inclined 
plane, with a rise of about 11 inches to the yard ; the arched 
roof is built lower at the end nearest to the door, as com- 
pared with its farthest extremity, in order to prevent the 
escape of the steam. When the oven is charged, the en- 
trance is closed with a wet bundle of straw ; by this ar- 
rangement the steam is driven down on the bread, and 
a golden yellow crust is given to it, as though it had pre- 
viously been covered with the yolk of an egg. In place of 
the wet straw, the oven may be charged directly with 
steam. The principle is that of the conversion of the moist 
starch substances of the surface of the loaf into dextrin ; 
this action may be facilitated by moistening the top of the 
loaves before putting in the oven. 

PARIS BREAD— WHITE. 
In Paris the fermentation is produced chiefly by the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



158 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

gluten of the dough , the yeast being used merely to facili- 
tate the action. A lump of dough remaining from the last 
batch of bread, and consisting of 8 lbs flour and 4 lbs water is 
left to itself for 10 hours; in this state it is called (levain de 
chef.) By icneading this with another quantity of 8 lbs 
flour and 4 lbs water, the once revived leaven {levain de 
premiere) is obtained. After another interval of 8 hours, 
16 lbs flour and 8 lbs water are added, forming the twice re- 
vived leaven {levain de seconde), and after 3 hours more^ 
100 lbs flour and 52 lbs water, containing J^ to Jib beer yeast 
are added, forming the flnished leaven {levain de tout pain,) 

The 200 lbs leaven thus obtained are mixed after 2 hours 
with 132 lbs flour and 68 lb •; water, containing J lb yeast in 
suspension, and 2 lbs common salt dissolved. This quantity 
of dough serves for 5 or 6 bakings. 

For the first baking half the dough (200 lbs) is made into 
loaves of the required size, which are exposed for a while in 
shallow baskets to a temperature of 77° Fahr., and then 
transferred to the oven. The bread thus obtained has a 
sourish taste and dark color. The remaining half of the 
the dough is again mixed with 132 lbs flour, 70 lbs water, 
i ft) yeast and the requisite quantity of salt ; the half of this 
quantity of dough is then formed into loaves, left to fer- 
ment, and baked. The same operation is repeated three 
times, one-half of the dough being each time mixed with 
130 ft)S flour, and IJlbs yeast, and the proper quantity of 
water and salt. The last stage yields the finest and whitest 
bread. 

PARISIAN CAKE. 

1 lb flour. 6 ozs almonds, blanched and 

10 ozs butter. pounded. 

3 ozs sugar. 2 ozs candied lemon peel. 

8 eggs. 2 ozs candied orange peel. 

J pt cream. Salt. 

Bake in a hoop lined with buttered paper. 

PARISIAN LOAVES. 
Prepare some small slender flnger biscuits ; spread them 
with apricot or greengage jam; stick two together; hold- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 



ing one at a time on a silver forls mask them over slightly 
with meringue paste; with a paper cornet filled with the 
same paste, draw parallel lines across the cake in a slanting 
direction ; shake sugar over them and put them in a cool 
oven to j^e haked, or rather dried, of a very light fawn 
eolor; when done, insert some narrow strips of bright cur- 
rant jelly, greengage jam and apple-jelly, between the bart 
of decoration. 

PARISIAN NOUGAT 

(See Nougat.) 

PARIS RINGS. 

ffi) almonds, blanched. 3 eggs. ' 

i ft butter. Mixed spices to flavor. 

6 ozs sugar. 

Pound almonds and sugar together; mix and form into 
the shape of small rings ; glaze with the white of an egg ; 
roll in pounded sugar; bake in a cool oven. 

PARIS ROLLS. 
Made of the best White Paris bread dough, with the ad- 
dition of a proportionate quantity of butter ; mould into 
long or oval shape rolls ; these may be glazed with a batter 
of corn starch and milk, or baked in the same manner as 
Paris steamed bread. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 
At night take 2 qts flour; rub in 3 tablespoons lard; 
make a hole in the middle and put in 1 pt of cold-boiled 
milk, 1 gill yeast, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 egg and a teaspoon 
salt ; let it stand until the next morning without mixing, 
then mix and let it stand until noon ; roll out, cut into 
rolls, let them get very light and bake in a quick oven. 

PARLIAMENT GINGERBREAD (1.) 
(See Gingerbread.) 

PARLIAMENT GINGERBREAD (2.) 
Boil for ten minutes, two ounces of whole ginger, which 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



/ 



/ 

/ 



160 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

has been well crushed, in a gill and a half of water. Strain^ 
and let get cold, and if it has wasted add water to make up 
the original quantity. Mix a quarter of a pound of raw- 
sugar, sifted fine, with a pound of flour, a small teaspoonful 
of carraway seeds, and half a teaspoonful of carbonate of 
soda. Put into this two ounces of butter or lard and having 
well mixed a teaspoonful of molasses with the ginger water, 
make all into a paste. Roll out on a board to the thickness 
of rather less than half an inch, and cut into any shape de- 
sired. Put the cakes on a floured baking sheet, brush them, 
over with water in which a very small quantity of mo- 
lasses has been mixed, and bake in a moderate oven for 
a quarter of an hour. When this cake is required of finer 
quality two ounces of candied orange peel, is used instead 
of ground carraway seed. Sometimes these cakes are cut 
into the shapes of kings and queens, and ornamented with, 
gold and silver leaf. 

PASSOVER BREAD., 
Use either Thin Captain's biscuit mixture ; or Ship bread' 
mixture, with a good quality of flour; roll very thin and 
cut with large round cutters. 

PASTRAFROLLE. 
9 ozs flour. 3 ozs butter. 

6 ozs butter. Yolks of 5 eggs. 

4 ozs sweet almonds 1 pounded smooth with the white of 
10 bitter almonds / an ^^%. 

Cream the butter; work in the sugar and yolks, after- 
wards the almonds, and lastly the flour ; knead the paste 
well together. 

PASTRAFROLLE— NEAPOLITAN. 

(See Neapolitan Cake.) 

PATIENCE BISCUIT. 
Whites of 6 eggs beat up 1 oz fine flour. 

stiff". A few drops essence cinna- 

Jfi> sifted sugar. mon. 

Lay out on slightty buttered bakiug sheets, with a biscuit 
bag and funnel, into the form of small fingers; sift sugar 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 161 



over them through a lawn sieve; dry in the screen; and 
from thence for a minute or two in a moderate oven, until 
of a light fawn color. 

PAVINI CAKE. 
i lb flour. i lb raisins. 

i lb ground rice. i lb currants. 

i fb butter. 2 ozs sweet almonds. 

i Vb suffar. 1 teaspoon soda. 

1 pt milk. i grated nutmeg. 
Bake in deep cake mould ; decorate with Royal icings 

PEACH SHORT-CAKE. 
(See Short-Cake.) 

PEACH SURPRISE BISCUIT. 
(See Surprise Biscuit. 

PEAR BISCUIT. 
(See PopiiAR Bear Biscuit.) 

PEAR SURPRISE BISCUIT. 
( See Surprise Biscuit.) 

PEARL OYSTER CRACKERS. 
(See Oyster Crackers.) 

PEARLS— CRACKERS. 
lOfcs flour. J gal buttermilk, 

2 lbs sugar. 1 J ozs saleratus. 
l}fi)S lard or butter. i oz tartaric acid. 
Cut with special cutters. 

PEARL WAFERS. 
Proceed as for Pearls, rolling the dough very thin. 

PEERLESS CRACKERS. 
Use Arrowroot cracker mixture ; cut with special cutters 

PEPPERNUTS. 
4 lbs flour. f oz aniaionia. 

2J lbs sugar. | oz pepper. 

IJ lbs butter. I oz cinnamon. 

18 eggs. 1 oz honey. 

Bake in cakes or little balls, in a medium oven. 
11 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



1.62 FORMUL.^ AND MEMORANDA. 

PERKINS. 
(See Oatmeal Snaps.) 

PETITS CHOUX. 

6 ozs butter. i pt water. 

2 ozs white sugar. Pinch salt. 

i stick vanilla. 

Put into a stewpan over the fire and when it begins to 
boil, stir in 3 tablespoons of flour; continue stirring it over 
the fire, keeping it cleared from the bottom of the stew-pan 
until it becomes a tough paste ; take it from the fire and stir 
in gradually seven or eight eggs ; work well into the paste ; 
butter a baking sheet, lay the paste upon it in pieces the 
size of an English walnut; egg them over; sugar them and 
bake them in a moderate oven ; when baked and cold, open 
a lid at the top of each, and fill it with jam or marmalade ; 
replace the lid, and serve upon a napkin. 

PETITS CHOUX a la CBEME. 
Put about a pint of water into a saucepan with a few 
grains of salt, a piece of butter the size of an egg^ and as 
much sugar, with plenty of grated lemon peel. When the 
water boils, throw into it gradually fiour to form a thick 
paste; then take it ofi" the fire, let it remain ten minutes, 
and work into it three or four eggs. Butter a baking sheet 
and lay the paste upon it in neat little heaps, about one 
teaspoonful to each. Bake a nice color in a moderate oven ; 
take them out, sprinkle powdered sugar over them, and 
put them in again for a few minutes. Make an incision in 
the under side of each, and insert a small piece of jam ol^ 
jelly, or some French custard creme a choux. 

PIC-NICS (1.) 
16 lbs fiour. Z\ Bbs sugar. 

2J lbs butter. 1 J qts water. 

Cut with fancy cutters. 

PIC-NICS (2.) 
16 lbs flour. \\ ozs cream tartar. 

2 lbs butter. 2 qts water. 

If lbs sugar. 
Cut with fancy cutters. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULJE AND MEMORANDA. 163 

PIC-NICS-ENGLISH. 
16 lbs flour. IJ ozs tartaric acid. 

l|ft>s butter. l| ozs animoDia. 

l| lbs sugar. l| ozs salt. 

l| ozs saleratus. 

Cut with Pic-nic cutters, consisting of a set of cutters, 
round, oval, diamond, oblong and square. 

PILOT BREAD. 
(See Captain's Biscuit.) 

PILOT BREAD-^STORES. 
A good quality of Ship's biscuit, rolled thinner than 
ordinary. 

PINCH NUTS. 
14 ozs flour. i lb mixed peel, cut up very 

i lb butter. flne. 

2 ozs moist sugar. } gill brandy. 

1 oz ground ginger. 10 ozs molasses. 

Form into a paste ; roll out into balls ; pinch them with 
the two flngers and thumb ; bake in a moderate oven ; and 
wash over with milk when they come out. 

PINE APPLE CAKE. 

1 ft) flour. 1 doz eggs. 

1 It) sugar. 

Bake 1 inch thick on paper in a pan ; when done trim 
round with a sharp knife ; spread preserved pine-apple on 
the cake where the paper was ; put a coat of meringue bat- 
ter on top, also form a border with the same ; set in the 
oven to brown. 

PISTACHIO AND FILBERT CRIPS. 
Proceed as for Almond crips, with tne exception of using 
blanched pistachios and filberts whole ; flavor each of the 
pastes with Noyau, in place of orange-flower water. 

PISTACHIO CRACKLINGS. 
6 ozs shred pistachios. Whites of 2 eggs. 

4 ozs powdered pistachios. 1 tablespoon vanilla sugar. 
10 ozs sifted sugar. 
Lay out size of a walnut on baking sheets. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



164 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

PISTACHIO SUFFLES. 

(See SuFFLES.) 

PISTACHIO TORONI. 
8 OZ8 fresh purple skinned Whites of 3 eggs. 

pistachios. 1 oz candied orange flowers. 

8 ozs sifted sugnr. 
Proceed as for Toroui Biana. 

PLAIN BISCUIT. 
Add 2 lb butter, with a little salt and luke-warm water, to 
16 lbs flour; form this into a smooth paste; roll it out thin; 
stamp it out with a middling size round cutter; put on 
slightly buttered baking sheets; bake 6 or 7 minutes in a 
quick oven. These biscuit are quickly made without much 
preparation. 

PLAIN BUNS. 
(See Buns.) 

PLAIN SURPRISE BISCUIT. 
(See Surprise Biscuit.) 

PLANTAIN BREAD. 
Bread made from the meal of the banana. 

PLUM CAKE. 

1 ft flour. i fi> sugar, 

li teaspoons baking powder^ i ft currants or raisins. 

J ft butter. 2 eggs. 

A little salt. i pt milk. 

Bake in square or round cake pans. 

POLISH BISCOTTINL 

6 ozs flour. Pinch salt. 

3 ozs sugar. A dessertspoonful aniseed 

Yolks of 6 eggs. (whole), or of the li- 

J gill double cream. queur. 

Bake the paste, previously egged over, in a long, narrow, 
stiff paper case 2x8 iuches and 2 inches in depth; when 
baked, cut in thin slices and dry of a light color in the oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 165 

POOR WHITE JUMBLES. 
16 fi)S flour. 4 q ta milk and water. 

8 ft>s granulated sugar. Oil lemon to flavor. 

5 lbs lard and butter. 1 oz soda. 

i pint eggs. 

POPLAR PEAR BISCUIT. 

Savoy Biscuit Mixture. 
Use a biscuit-forcer to push out the batter upon buttered 
and floured baking plates in the exact shapes of halves of 
pears ; when baked, stick two together with pear, or any 
red or pink jam; glace with transparent icing; imitate 
the stalks with angelica, and stick a dried currant at the 
thick end to imitate the eye left by the blossom. 

PORK CAKE. 

1 B> salt pork, chopped fine, 1 th citron chopped fine. 

and scalded with a cup- 1 teaspoon soda. 

ful of boiling water. Cinnamon, cloves and mace 
f ft) sugar. (1 teaspoon each.) 

1 pint molasses. Flour to make a rather thin 
i doz eggs. batter. 

1 ft) raisins. 

PORTUGAL CAKES. 
1 ft) flour. 1 doz eggs. 

1 lb butter. i lb currants. 

1 lb powdered sugar. } gill white wine. 

Bake in small tins, only half filled. 

PORTUGESE CAKE. 

1 lb flour. i lb blanched almonds, 
1 lb sugar. pounded to a paste. 

i% butter. ift> seedless raisins. 

1 doz eggs. Nutmeg to flavor. 
^fi> currants. 
Bake in square cake tin. 

POTATO BREAD. 
Boil large mealy potatoes; peel and mash them fine, 
-without adding any water ; add two parts of wheat flour to 
one of potatoes, using a little more yeast than for wheat 
flour alone ; knead into a dough and let stand to rise. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



166 FORMUL-E AND MEMORANDA. 

POTATO CAKE. 
1 ft) cold potatoes. J oz compressed yeast, dis- 

i ft> flour or oatmeal. solved in the milk. 

i ft) butter. Salt to taste. 

1 gill warm milk. 

Mash the potatoes ; add the other ingredients ; roll out 
the paste 1 J or 2 inches thick; place on greased tins, and bake. 

POTATO SCONES. 

} pt graham flour. Essence of cloves to flavor. 

1 oz butter. } doz potatoes. 

1 gill cream. Salt to taste. 

3 eggs. 

Boil the potatoes (peeled) until very well done ; drain off 
the water and set them by the fire to dry ; mash smooth, 
aading butter, eggs and cream ; mix in the other wgre- 
dients; make a firm dough, which will require care in 
handling ; roll out i inch thick ; cut into oblong pieces, 
size of soda crackers ; dock them and bake on a hot griddle. 

POUND CAKE (1.) 

1 ft) butter, well washed to 1 pt e^gs. 

extract the salt. 1 ft winter wheat flour. 

1 ft) white sugar. Flavor as desired. 

Bub the butter and sugar in a wooden bowl with the hand 
until very light ; stir J of the eggs into the butter and sugar 
at a time and so on until the whole pint is in ; mix in the 
flavor and flour gently; and bake in a pan 12x16 inches. 
This cake will be about 2} inches thick and take 1} hours 
to bake. 

POUND CAKE (2.) 

1 lb fresh butter. 10 eggs. 

1 lb sifted sugar. 1} lbs flour. 

A little lemon zest. 

Currants, citron or carraway seed to taste. 

POUND CAKE— CITRON. 
Put on the pan some paper and spread Pound cake mix- 
ture } inch thick ; put slices of citron cut very thin on the 
dough all over the top ; put on half inch more dough and 
more citron; then J inch more dough and bake; when 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULAS AND MEMORANDA. 167 

doi^e, ice and mark in long slices half inch wide and 2 
inclies long. 

POUND CAKE— COMMON. 
2 lbs sugar. 2 !bs flour. 

IJ ft)S butter. J oz soda. 

1 pt eggs. 1 oz cream tartar. 

i pt milk. 

POUND CAKE— ENGLISH. 

Pound Cake Mixture. 
Bake in cakes of 1 lb each, in round hoops about 6 inches 
in diameter and 6 inches high, previously papered; the 
paper should be about one inch above the tin and allowed 
to remain after the cake is baked ; sprinkle with water and 
dust with sugar before baking. 

PRESBURG8— CRACKERS. 
Same mixture as for Presidents; cut with special cutters. 

PRESIDENTS— CRACKE RS. 
16 lbs flour. li qts milk. 

2ilbs butter. 1 oz ammonia, 

ejlbs sugar. Oil lemon lo flavor. 

1 qt eggs. 

Cut with special cutters. 

PRETZELS. 
Made of ordinary bread dough with an extra amount of 
salt; roll the dough to a proper thickness and form into 
pretzel shape; throw them into a cauldron of strong hot 
lye made from wood-ashes ; as soon as they rise to the sur- 
face, throw them on fine salt ; immediately after put in the 
oven and bake; it requires about an hour to perfectly bake 
them. 

PRINCE ALBERT CAKES. 

2 lbs flour. J doz eggs. 

1 lb sugar. f oz ammonia. 

6 ozs butter. 

Roll in long round pieces; cut ofl^ the size of a hickory 
nut; make round ; spread out and pan ; put pieces of citron 
in the middle of each. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



168 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

PROFILES. 
Same mixture as for Presidents; cut with Profile cutters. 

PRUSSIAN BISCUIT. 

8 ozs sugar. 1 giii kirschenwasser. 

6 ozs flour. Almond flavor. 

3 ozs clarified butter. 3 ozs shred fllbert kernels. 

Bake in deep fancy moulds, the bottoms sprinkled with 
the shred kernels ; ice with glace icing flavored with 
kirschenwasser. 

PULLED BREAD. 

Take from the oven an ordinary loaf, when it is about 
half baked; with the flngers, while the bread is yet hot, 
quickly pull the half-wet dough into pieces of irregular 
shape about the size of an egg; do not attempt to smooth or 
flatten them— the rougher their shapes, the better— set them 
upon tins, and place in a very slow oven ; bake to a rich 
brown; this forms a deliciously crisp crust to eat with 
cheese, milk or cream. 

PUMPKIN GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Same as Squash Griddle cakes, substituting cold stewed 
pumpkin in place of squash. 

PUNCH CAKE. 
Pound cake mixture, flavored with mace; lay out in three 
layers t inch thick, placing apple jelly between each layer ; 
ornament the top with Royal Icing, flavored with whisky; 
put a border of kiss batter round the edge; sift cinnamon 
sugar lightly over the whole. 

PUMPERNICKEL. 
A species of brown bread, used by the Weatphalian 
peasants. 

QUEEN^S CAKE (1.) 
1 K> fresh butter. 20 ozs flour. 

1 tt) powdered loaf sugar. J lb currants. 
8 eggs. 

Cream the butter and mix with a little orange flower 
water ; bake in small round tins. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 

J 



FORMUI.JE AND MEMORANDA. 1C9 

QUEEN^S CAKE (2.) 
12 ozs flour. 1 doz eggs, 

itt) butter. } lb raisins cut in two. 

12 ozs sugar. | lb citron chopped fine and 

1 gill each wine, brandy and cut in slices. 

cream. Extracts nutmeg, rose and 

J ft) dried currants washed lemon to flavor. 

and picked. 
Bake carefully in a papered tin in a moderate oven. 

QUEEN'S CHOICE. 

1 J ft)S flour. 4 ozs melted fresh butter. 

1 ft) sugar. i% raisins. 

1 qt yolks of eggs. } Bb currants. 

Bake in a shallow pan, with dough about 2 inches thick; 
cut in squares of 2} inches; cover with white icing with 
melted butter in it and flavored with oil lemon; let some 
of the icing run down the sides. 

QUEEN'S DROPS (1.) 
1} lbs flour. 8 eggs. 

1 lb fresh butter. J ft) currants. 

1 ft) powdered and sifted loaf Cinnamon to flavor. 

sugar. 
Make into drops the size of walnuts ; bake on paper-lined 

tins. 

QUEEN'S DROPS (2.) 
i Yb fresh butter. 10 ozs flour. 

I lb sifted sugar. A few currants. 

4 doz eggs. Lemon zest. 

Lay out in small rounds with a biscuit bag. 

QUEEN'S GINGERBREAD. 

(See GiNaERBREAD.) 

QUEEN'S HEARTS. 
Same mixture as Queen's Drops (2), adding a few more 
currants; bake in heart shaped tins. 

QUICK LOAF CAKE. 
10 ozs flour. 2 teaspoons cream tartar. 

i % sugar. i teaspoon soda. 

1 gill sweet milk. Nutmeg to flavor. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



170 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

1 egg. RaisiDs or currants, etc., a» 

2 ozs butter. desired. 
Bake in deep cake pan. 

RAILROAD CAKE. 
6 ozs flour. 2 ozs melted butter. 

4 eggs. 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

i gm milk. Flavor and sugar if desired. 

Bake in shallow pan. 

RAISED BISCUIT. 
1 pt new milk. 1 tablespoon yeast. 

1 oz butter. Flour to make a thin batter. 

1 egg (well beaten.) 

Let stand to rise; add a teaspoon salt with flour to make a 
soft dough ; mould ten or fifteen minutes ; roll i inch thick; 
cut into biscuits ; cover with a thick cloth and let stand an 
hour; prick and bake in a quick oven. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

4 lbs flour. 2i doz eggs. 

2 lbs butter. J oz cream tartar. 

3 lbs powdered white sugar. J oz soda. 

3^ lbs Sultana raisins. Oil lemon to flavor. 

Bake in ordinary cake pans. 

RAISIN CAKE— DARK. 
Use brown sugar in place of white; use only 1} lbs Sul- 
tana raisins, adding H lbs currants, 1 % citron and 1 oz 
mixed spices. 

RARATONGAS. 

Boil a stick of Vanilla in h pt water. 

Rub to a cream 6 ozs butter and 2 ozs fine white sugar, to 
which add a pinch of salt and 3 tablespoonsful of sifted 
fiour; then pour on boiling water (in which the vanilla was 
boiled) and stir the whole mixture until cold; when cold, 
stir in 7 eggs; mix and bake in small balls; sprinkle with 
white sugar grains; when baked, open the balls and fill 
them with marmalade. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 171 

RASPBERRY BISCUIT (1.) 
Almond Rout Cake Paste. 
Roll very thin ; spread with raspberry jam ; place a thin 
layer of paste on the top, and let it stand until next day ; 
spread smoothly with Royal Icing; cut into lengths 1x3^ 
inches ; bake in a moderate oven ; the icing will take a sort 
of fawn color. 

RASPBERRY BISCUIT (2.) 
3&s stale or broken almond 1 ^ hard biscuit, or sponge 
goods, macaroons, rata- cake, 

fias, or almond cakes. 
Beat up fine in a mortar, and sieve; beat into a mode- 
rately stiff paste with the yolks of eggs; roll in sheets about 
i inch thick; spread over a thin layer of raspberry jam; roll 
out another sheet, same size and thickness; lay it on the 
former; cut in pieces l}x3 inches; put over a thin layer of 
icing ; bake in a cool oven. 

RASPBERRY GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Proceed as for Huckleberry Griddle cakes, using the 
same precaution in regard to baking. 

RASPBERRY VENICE CAKE. 

1 lb flour. 1 Bb butter. 

1 ft sugar. 1 doz eggs. 

Beat up eggs and sugar till very light; add butter dis- 
solved to a cream ; stir in lightly the flour ; spread it on a 
square edged tin about | inch thick ; when done turn out 
to cool; split it with a sharp knife; spread with raspberry 
jam; close as a sandwich; spread the top with Royal 
Icing; cut into squares, or lengths, according to fancy. 

RATAFIAS. 
1 ft) fine powdered sugar. 2 ozs ground bitter almonds. 
6 ozs ground sweet almonds. Whites of 4 or 5 eggs. 

Beat in a mortar with the whites (2 at a time) ; make the 
paste so that it will pass easily through a biscuit bag; lay 
out on foolscap paper, small, middling or large size; bake 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



172 FOBMULiB AND MEMORANDA. 

in a moderate oven ; when cold, pull them off and pack 
away in tin canisters. 

In place of above proportions } ft) of sweet almonds may 
be used and i Yb bitter almonds. 

RATAFIAS ITALIAN. 
1 K> flour. } gill water. 

1 fi> sugar. A little ammonia. 

i % butter. Bitter almond flavor. 

} doz eggs. 

Lay out as Spice calses. 

READINGS— CRACKERS. 

16 lbs flour. i fb dried yeast 

2 lbs butter. 

Set a sponge; roll thin and cut in ovals. 

REAL SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. 
(See Scotch Shortbread.) 

RECEPTION CAKE. 

1 ib flour. 2 ozs ground almonds, 
i% butter. blanched. 

i tt) sugar. } orange rind (peeled and 
1 doz eggs. cut fine.) 

}]b currants. Allspice and cinnamon to 
} K> citron. flavor. 

Bake in shallow, paper-lined cake pan; ornament ac- 
cording to fancy. 

RED ROCK BISCUIT. 
Same as Rock Biscuit; omitting the orange peel, and 
coloring with a little cochineal. 

REPUBLICAN CAKE. 

I lb flour. i lb Sultana raisins. 

J ft) butter. 1 gill white wine. 

6 ozs sugar. Nutmeg to flavor. 

i doz eggs. A pinch of ammonia. 



i pt cream. 

Bake in paper-lined deep cake pan. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MOIORANDA. 17$ 

RHEIMS BISCUIT. 

15 0Z8 sugar. 10 yolks of eggs. 

6 ozs flour. Pinch of salt. 

12 whites of eggs. 

Mix as for Savoy cake (hot method) ; bake in Bheim's 
biscuit moulds. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

IJfts flour. IJ pts yolks of eggs. 

li fi»8 sugar. 4 ozs melted butter. 

Spread on paper } inch thick ; bake in hot oven ; when 
done and not hard, take the paper off and spread currant 
jelly all over the cake the side the paper cameoflT; roll it up 
quickly as you would writing papery ice with white icing 
and roll it in pulverized sugar; cut off the ends and cut it 
in two in the middle; mark in slices. 

RICE BREAD. 

1 Tb rice flour. S tablespoons yeast. 
4fi> wheat flour. i oz salt. 

Boil the rice in the water till quite tender; pour off the 
water and put the rice before it is cold to the flour; mix 
well with the yeast and salt, and sufficient warm water to 
make a smooth dough ; let it rise by the side of the fire; 
form into loaves. 

If the rice is boiled in milk, instead of water, it makes 
delicious bread or cakes. When boiled in this manner, it 
may be mixed with the flour without straining the liquor 
from it. 

RICE CAKE. 

} ft) sifted sugar. Orange zest to flavor. 

8 eggs. Pinch of salt. 

6 ozs ground rice. 

Mix the sugar, yolks, orange zest and salt until perfectly 
smooth; add the whites whipped; mix lightly and stir in 
the rice; put in a prepared Savoy cake mould, about three 
parts full. 

RICE CAKES. 

2 ozs butter. 6 ozs wheat flour, 
i ft) sugar. 1 gill cream. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



174 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

6 eggs. Lemon zest. 

6 ozs rice flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Mix into a tliin batter and bake in patty pans, well greased. 

RICE CRUMPETS. 
(Wee Crumpets.) 

RICE FLOUR CRACKERS. 
Same as Corn Starch crackers, substituting rice flour in 
place of corn starch. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 
i ft cold boiled rice. i pt milk. 

i lb flour. Sugar and salt to taste. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

RICE MUFFINS. 
i lb cold boiled rice. i pt milk. 

1 ft) flour. 3 eggs. 

Salt and sugar to taste. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Dilute the rice, free from lumps, with the milk and 
ibeaten eggs. 

RICE WAFERS. 

Into 1 pint boiled milk stir sufficient rice flour to make a 
stiff batter; add 2 ozs butter; 2 eggs, well beaten; 1 gill of 
wine, and a teaspoon of salt. 

RICE WAFFLES. 
Same as soft waffies; stir in )& rice, free from lumps. 

RICH COOKIES. 

12fts flour. i oz ammonia. 

5 fts powdered sugar. Flavor as desired. 

2 doz eggs. Milk to form a medium stifl" 
3ft)8 lard (or half butter.) dough. 

Proceed as for Cookies. To make diflferent flavors and 
shapes, half mix the dough and then divide it into dififerent 
pieces, and flavor each as desired, or add currants, chopped 
peel or seed, as the case may be. 

RICH JUMBLES (1.) 
1 % butter. 4 eggs. 

1 % sugar. A little brandy. 

1} lbs flour. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 175 

Boll the cakes in powdered sugar; lay on flat buttered 
^ins and bake in a quick oven. 

RICH JUMBLES (2.) 
16 Rs flour. 4K>s butter. 

Tfcssugar, 2qtswater. 

12 eggs. 2 ozs ammonia. 

BICH SEED CAKE. 
8ame as Bicli Seed crackers. 

BICH SEED CBACKEBS. 
16 fi»s flour. 2 ozs tartaric acid. 

2i fits butter. 2 ozs salt. 

l| lbs sugar. 2^ ozs carraway seed. 

2 ozs saleratus. 2 qts water. 

Mix as Cornhills ; break down very fine ; cut with long 
^uare cutters with the corners cut oflT; cut i inch thick. 

BICH TBAVELEB. 
Same as Bich Seed crackers. 

BIFLE NUTS. 
16fi>s flour. 2^ ozs salt 

4 lbs sugar. IJ ozs cloves. 

1 gal Is, O. molasses. l\ ozs ammonia. 

2i fi>s lard. 2 ozs soda. 

i fi> cinnamon. 2 ozs tartaric acid. 
Jib ginger. 

BING CBACKEBS. 
16 lbs flour. 2 doz eggs. 

2 J lbs butter. } oz ammonia. 

5 lbs powdered sugar. Almond and lemon flavor. 
IJ lbs corn starch. 

Pass through a star bead ; cut in 3 inch lengths; roll up 
In rings ; pan them; drop a red comfit in the centre of each 
and bake. 

BOCK BISCUIT, 
lib Jordan almonds, blanch- i doz whites of eggs. 

ed and cut up into fillets, i fi> candied orange peel, cut 
1 lb pulverized sugar. fine. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



176 FORMIIL-« AND MEMORANDA. 

Lay the biscuit out in the form of rocks, but piled about 
1 to 1^ inches high ; bake in a slack oven of a nice brown 
color. 

ROCKET OR WALNUT BISCUIT. 

l^Ibs flour. 1 teaspoonfnl soda. 

l| Rs butter. i teaspoon baking powder. 

1} fcs sifted sugar. 2 eggs. 

A little lemon zest. 

Mix and divide the paste; make the i>ortio]i for the 
rochets a little softer with eggs ; put into a biscuit syringe- 
forcer; force and cut into about 5 inch lengths ; place care- 
fully on cartridge paper and bake in a quick oven. With 
the other portion of the paste, use walnut mould, and finish 
as for Almond Walnut biscuit. 

ROCK SUGAR. 

Boil 2 &8 sugar to a caramel, omitting the lemon juice; 
remove from the fire, and stir in a good teaspoonful of 
Royal Icing quickly with a wooden spoon. It will rise to 
the top and then go down again ; keep stirring, and, as it is 
about to rise the second time, pour it into a square case 
made of strong cartridge paper, holding the hot pan over 
the top as it rises in the case. 

The cases must be from 4 to 5 inches high. Pink Rock 
Sugar can be made by coloring the icing with cochineal. 
To dish, after taking the paper off the blocks of rock sugar, 
cut them with a saw into square lengths, and dish in cross 
pieces, pink and white f>lternately. 

ROLLED BISCUIT. 
Make a Savoy biscuit mixture (hot method) ; line a square 
copper baking sheet with fools-cap paper, buttered; spread 
the batter equally over it ; bake and when done, turn it 
out; remove the paper and while hot, spread it with green- 
gages or raspberry jam; roll it up in the form of a bolster; 
when cold, cut across into slices about J inch thick ; spread 
them with any liqueur icing. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 177 



BOLLS. 




See under appropriate headings, such 
Breakfast. Long. 
Dinner. Lunch. 
French. Milk. 
German. Oatmeal. 
Graham. Parker House. 
Italian. Paris. 


as: 
Turin. 
Venice. 
Vienna. 
Vienna Butter. 
Vienna Twist. 
Etc., Etc. 



ROLLS (1.) 

To every 1 R flour allow 1 oz butter and } pt milk, a large 
tablespoon yeast, and a little salt. 

Warm the butter in the milk ; add the yeast and salt and 
mix well ; put the flour in a pan, stir in the above ingre- 
dients, and let the dough rise, covered, in a warm^ place; 
knead it well ; make into rolls, let them rise again for a few 
minutes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Bicher rolls may be made by adding 1 or 2 eggs and a 
larger proportion of butter, and their appearance improved 
by brushing the tops over with the yolk of egg or a little 
milk. 

BOLLS (2.) 
To 1 pt of scalded milk add 2 ozs sugar and 1 oz butter; 
when the milk is cool, add salt and sufficient compressed 
yeast ; let it rise till light ; work with the hand and let it 
rise again; repeat three times; then turn the dough onto 
the board and pound until it is thin enough to cut; brush 
the surface of each with melted butter ; fold over, and let 
the rolls rise again before baking. 

BOSALINE CAKE 

li lbs flour. 5 eggs. 

15 ozs sugar. 1 oz ammonia. 

10 ozs butter. 

Boll very thin (J inch) ; cut a hole in the middle 1 inch 
wide; then lay on the wasted crumbs of marangs; bake in 
a moderate oven. 

BOSE JELLY CAKE. 
(See Jelly Cake.) 
12 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



178 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

BOSE PINK ZEPHERS. 
(See Zephers.) 

ROUGH AND READY CAKES. 
i doz eggs. 2 teaspoons cream tartar. 

i fb sugar. Salt and flavor to taste. 

i gill sour cream. Flour to make a middliug 

1 teaspoonful soda. stiff dough. 

Cut in squares about 3 inches each; score through the 
centre twice, not quite to the edge; fry in hot lard. 

ROUT CAKE (1.) 
1 % ground sweet almonds. A little lemon zest. 

1 ib fine sugar. 

Form a smooth paste with the yolks of ^gs, and cut into 
fancy shapes; decorate with dried cherries, preserved 
gages, apricots, etc., according to fancy; lay each pattern or 
design on square pieces of cartridge paper dusted with 
sugar ; let them remain until next day ; bake in a moderate 
oven. 

ROUT CAKE (2.) 

2 ^s flour. 6 ^olks of eggs. 
1 K> sugar. Oil lemon. 

f lb butter. 

Make a stiff dough ; with a jumble forcer lay in strips on 
a floured board; cut 2 inches long; make into dlflTerent 
shapes, and bake on greased pans. 

ROUT CAKE (3.) 
(See Almond Rout Cake.) 

ROUT CRACKERS. 
16 ft>s flour. i oz ammonia* 

5 fi)S granulated sugar. 1 J %a lard. 

3 pints water. Lemon flavor. 

When mixed pass through a star bead ; cut them in dif- 
ferent lengths and work them off in rings, eighths, crosses, 
crescents, straight and any shape you please; bake in a 
sharp oven. 

ROYAL BISCUIT. 

1} lbs flour. IJ lbs currants. 

1 lb butter. A little lemon zest. 

1 fi> sifted sugar. 8 eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 179 

Form into a paste with tlie eggs; roll and cut with a 
round cutter; egg them over; strew over them a few 
chopped and blanched almonds and orange peel mixed; 
bake in a moderate oven. 

ROYAL HEARTS- 
6 ozs fine sifted flour. 5 ozs ground almonds. 

1 pt yolks of eggs. 6 whites of eggs. 

10 ozs sugar. 

Beat the yolks, sugar and ground almonds very light; 
add the whites; lastly the flour; place buttered heart tins 
on a prepared baking sheet ; three parta fill them ; bake in 
in a good oven. 

RUSKS. 
See under appropriate headings, such as : 
Brussels. G«^rmau. Swiss. 

Diet Bread* Italian. Etc., Etc. 

RUSKS (1.) 
Make a dough of 1^ Ybs flour ; 2 ozs sifted sugar ; 2 ozs but- 
ter ; 1 oz German yeast; a little salt and milk. 

Proceed as for Fanny Bread; divide it in lengths; put 
them on a buttered baking sheet ; prove and bake in a quick 
oven ; when cold, cut into slices ; place jn a baking sheet ; 
put in a sharp oven and brown on both sides; keep in can- 
nisters for use. 

RUSKS (2.) 

1 ib flour. 2 )zs loaf sugar. 

2 ozs butter. 3 »3gg8. 

i pt milk. 1 tablespoon yeast. 

Put milk and butter into a saucepan and keep shaking it 
well until the butter is melted ; put the flour into a basin 
with the sugar; mix well and beat the eggs — stir them with 
the yeast to the milk and butter, and with this liquid work 
the flour to a smooth dough. 

Cover a cloth over the basin and leave the dough to rise 
by the side of the fire; knead it and divide it into 12 pieces; 
place in the oven and bake 20 minutes. 

Take the Rusk out, break '^^ half and set them in the 
oven to get crisp on the other side. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



180 FORMULJE AND MEMORANDA. 

RUSSIAN BISCOTTINI. 
8 0Z8 flour. 1 oz 8ugar. 

} oz salt. i oz carraway seed. 

1 gill double cream. 

Mix and divide into 30 parts; roll in the form of sticks; 
stick the ends down so that they will not twist out of shape. 

RYE BREAD (1.) 

Mix rye-flour with a sponge dough, and follow the same 
process as for wheat flour. To glace, take an equal quantity 
of eggs and water, or mucilage and water, anji wash the 
loaves before putting in the oven. This bread is generally 
baked on the bottom of the oven. Rye bread is hard of 
digestion and requires longer and slower baking than 
wheat It is better when made with a leaven of wheaten 
flour, rather than yeast, and turns out lighter. 

Rye bread, as well as Graham bread, should be made soft; 
ipoulding spoils the bread, making it hard, dry and chippy. 

RYE BREAD (2.) 
i lb rye flour. J pt milk. 

} K) corn meal. Sugar and salt to taste. 

i lb flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 oz lar J. 

Make into a smooth batter as for cake; bake in square 
pans. 

RYE BREAD (3.) 

Take one quart of warm water, about J pt of yeast, and 
thicken with rye flour ; put in a warm place to rise over 
night; in the morning scald — well cook— one pint of In- 
dian meal ; when cool, add to the sponge^ with salt, a little 
molasses, a pint of warm water and rye flour to knead very 
soft; let rise, then put into pans; again let it rise, then 
bake. The dough should never be molded stiff for rye 
bread, and, if preferred, the flour may be wholly worked in 
with an iron spoon instead of the hands. 

RYE BREAD— BLACK. 
This is made by keeping a piece of the old dough for the 
next batch, and setting a sponge with it. Mix the dough 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 181 

in whatever quantity of water is needed for the size of the 
dough required ; when the sponge is ready, work it the 
same as white bread. 

BYE BBEAD— SOUR. 
Same as Black Bye Bread. 

BYE DBOP CAKES. 
1 pt warm milk. 4 eggs, well beaten. 

i teaspoon soda. Bye fiour to make a thin 

Salt. batter. 

Bake in small cups, buttered, and in a hot oven ; or in 
small cups upon a hot oven. 

BYE GBIDDLE CAKES. 
i ft) rye flour. 1 pt milk. 

I ft) graham flour. Sugar and salt. 

I ft) wheat flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

BYE WAFFLES. 
Same as Soft Waffles, using about one-third rye flour. 

SAFFBON BUNS. 

( See Buns.) 

SAGO BISCUIT. 
Use Oswego Finger mixture, substituting sago in place 
of rice flour; cut in fancy shapes. 

SALLY LUN BBEAKFAST CAKES. 
Make a hole in the middle of 1 ft) flour in a pan ; put in 
I tablespoonful of good thick yeast (not bitter) ; pour in i pt 
milk, warmed as for buns; mix it up with a part of the 
flour and set to rise. When it has risen, put in 1} ozs but- 
ter, 1 oz sugar and a little milk over a slow fire ; while this 
is melting, break 4 eggs, and put the yolks with i teaspoon 
salt into the flour and yeast ; when the butter and milk are 
lukewarm, mix them with the other ingredients and make 
them all into a softish dough. Butter some cake hoops and 
put th€m on the buttered iron plates; flll the hoops about 
1 inch deep, and set them in a warm place to rise. When 
quite light, bake in a warm oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



182 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

SALLY LUN MUFFINS. 
1 qt flour. 1 oz lard. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon salt, 

li pts milk. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 oz sugar. 
Bake in cold muffin pans, well greased. 

SALLY LUN TEA CAKES. 
(See Sally Litn Breakfast Cakes.) 

SALT BISCUIT. 

1 lb flour. 1 pt water. 

2 ozs butter. i oz salt. 

Brush over with milk ; sprinkle coarse salt over them 
and bake in a sharp heat 

SALT RISING BREAD (1.) 
Dough raised by spontaneous fermentation. New dough 
as it contains both gluten and sugar, when moist, is capable 
of fermentation without adding any other substance. If 
simple flour and water be mixed and set aside in a warm 
place, after the lapse of several hours it will exhibit symp. 
toms of internal chemical action, becoming sour from the 
formation of lactic acid, while minute bubbles appear, whicli 
are owing to a gas set free within the dough. The chauges 
are irregular and uncertain on account of the property and 
condition of the constituents of the flour. They also pro- 
ceed with greater or less rapidity at the surface or in inter- 
vals accordingly as the parts are exposed to the cooling and 
oxydlziLig influences of the air. Bread baked from such 
dougi is sour, heavy, and altogether bad. Yet true vinous 
fermentation may be spontaneously establishejd in the 
dougb, by taking measures to quicken the action. 

If a small portion of flour and water be mixed to the con- 
««istency of batter (its half fluid state being favorable to 
rapid chemical change), and the mixture be placed in a 
jar o- pitcher, and set in a vessel of water, kept at p tem- 
perature of from 100° to 110° (Fahr.) ; in the course of five 
or six hours decomposition will have set in, with a copious 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 183 

production of gas bubble8,which may be seen by the appear- 
ance of the batter when stirred. If this be now mixed and 
kneaded with a large mass of dough, moulded into loaves 
and set aside for an hour or two in a warm place, the dough 
will swell or "Wse" to a much larger bulk; and when 
baked, will yield a light spongy bread. A little salt is 
usually added at first, which promotes the fermentation ; 
hence, bread raised in this manner is called, ^^ salt-rising^^ 
bread. Milk is often used for mixing the flour, instead of 
water, and the product is then called ^^milk-emptying 
bread,^^ 

SALT RISING BREAb (2.) 

1 pt new milk. 1 pt boiling water poured 
} oz ^alt. into the milk. 
Thicken with flour; make a stiff batter and beat till very 

light; place the vessel containing the batter in a pan of 
warm water, let it stand 5 or 6 hours where it will keep 
warm, when the ** emptyings " will be light. Put sutfi- 
citnt flour in a bread pan ; scald part of the flour; cool it 
with water or milk suflicient to make the sponge (not too 
ptiff ) ; stir in the ** emptyings," and place in a warm situa- 
tion to rise ; when light (in about an hour) mix into loaves ; 
place to rise; prove, place in pans and let rise again. 

A little butter, ground ginger and soda or saleratus are 
often used in making the above. • 

SAND TART. 

4 lbs flour. i doz eggs. 

2 lbs sugar. i oz ammonia. 

2\ lbs butter. . Oil lemon to flavor. 

Roll out and wash over with milk; lay on coarse sugar; 
bake in a sharp oven. 

SANDWICH BISCUIT. 

( See Liqueur Marbled Sandwich Biscuit.) 

(See Liqueur Pink Sandwich Biscuit.) 

( See Liqueur White Sandwich Biscuit.) 

SANDWICH CRACKERS. 
Same as Captain's Thin Biscuit. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



184 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

SANS SOUCI. 
Make a paste as for macaroons; roll it thin in powdered 
sugar ; cut into short strips; form the strips into the shape 
of the letter *' S ;" bake on paper of a light fawn color. 

SARANAC CAKE. 
i lb sugar. 3 ozs wheat flour. 

4 eggs. 3 ozs rice flour. 

1 yolk of egg. 

Mix as for Savoy Biscuit, hot method ; bake in tins pre- 
viously buttered and sprinkled with sugar. 

SARATOGA LAKE BISCUIT. 
Use Sugar cake mixture, with the addition of Sultana 
raisins; cut round. 

SARDINE CRACKERS. 
Use butter cracker mixture ; roll thin ; cut in ovals. 

SAVARIN. 

Weigh IJBbs flour; mix with IJ ozs German yeast in a 
basin with a little luke-warm water, and a little flour, to 
the consistency of cream; put this sponge in a warm 
place to rise ; melt 14 ozs butter to a sort of cream ; beat 
this with the flour, 8 whole eggs, 5 yolks, J lb sugar, and 
a little salt, to a smooth paste. 

Now beat in the sponge ; cover over with a cloth and let 
it rise in a basin ; when well risen, put into a Baba mould, 
the interior brushed with clarified butter; tie a buttered 
double paper band round the top ; only fill the mould three 
parts full ; put on a baking sheet in a bed of salt, to prevent 
the bottom from burning ; bake in a moderate oven. 

SAVOY BISCUIT. 

1 Bb fine flour. 1 doz eggs. 

1 lb sifted sugar. A little lemon zest. 

Cold method. Put the yolks of the eggs in a round-bot- 
tomed basin with the sugar and lemon zest; beat well with 
a wooden spoon until it assumes the form of a stiflT light 
batter; beat up the whites very firm and mix in lightly; 






Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 185 

finish by stirring in the flour. Lay them out about SJ 
inches long with a biscuit bag, on cartridge or foolscap 
paper; sift sugar over them tlirough a l«wn sieve; sliake it 
quiclily off and Imke in a brislt oven ; when done, cut them 
off and join two together. 

Ifot method. Same as above, with the exception of the 
whole eggs and sugar beiug beat with a whisk in a copper 
whipping bowl over a moderate fire or hot water, until 
warm ; then remove and beat until cold, and lastly stir in 
the flour very gently. 

SAVOY CAKE. 

Same mixture as for biscuit, either hot or cold method ; 
fill two pints, or 1 qt mould and bake in a warm oven ; 
when done it will be firm and dry. Before filling the 
moulds, warm a little butter and butter them ; then sift as 
much loaf sugar into them as will stick to the butter ; give 
the moulds a knock so as to take off* all that does not stick ; 
dust in a little flour, and serve in the same manner; tie a 
strip of paper round the top of the mould, so as to be an 
inch higher than the edge, for they are apt to run over 
when the cake rises. 

A Venice cake differs from a Savoy by adding 3 or more 
ozs of sweet almonds, while the yolks of the eggs are set to 
the whites in the proportion of 6 to 1. 

SAVOY DKOPS. 
Same mixture as for Savoy biscuit (cold method), only 
laying out in rounds the size of a half crown ; dust with 
sugar in the same manner ; bake in a quick oven ; cut them 
ofT and join two together. 

SAVOY RINGS. 
Same mixture as for biscuit (cold mixture) ; lay out on 
foolscap paper (with biscuit bag and a small funnel) into 
the form of rings ; dust them over with sugar as usual ; when 
baked cut them ofT and join together with apricot jam. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



186 FOBMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 

SCOTCH BREAD. 

4 ft)S flour. i doz eggs. 

1^ lbs sugar. i oz ammonia. 

l|fi>s butter. 1 oz cinnamon. 

Make into medium sized cakes ; roll to the thickness of i 
inch or less and scollop the edges ; when done, put three or 
four cakes on top of one another; cut into slices. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

1 lb flour. 10 eggs. 

1 lb butter. J lb citron, cut up. 

1 lb sugar. A little lemon zest. 

Mix as for Pound cake; beat up very light; put into 6 
inch square tins lined with foolscap paper ; fill about 3 parts 
full ; bake in a moderate oven ; when done stick carraway 
comfits over the top. 

SCOTCH CAKES. 
4 lbs flour. 1 qt molasses. 

1 lb brown sugar. 1 oz cinnamon. 
IJlbs hard lard. 

Keep the dough cool ; cut very thin into oblong shapes. 

SCOTCH FINGERS. 
16 lbs flour. 4 ozs saleratus. 

6 lbs sugar. i oz tartaric acid. 

2 lbs butter. 1 qt water. 
J gallon N. O. molasses. 

SCOTCH OATMEAL CAKES. 
The indispensable adjuncts for making these, are a basin, 
generally made of wood, a kneading board, a wooden rol- 
ler, a circular and slightly convex iron plate or "griddle," 
on which the cakes are baked or *' fired," and a broad cir- 
cular, or heart-sliaped knife, used for cutting the cake into 
four equal quarters when on the "griddle," and for turn- 
ing the quarters over. The basin is used for mixing the 
oatmeal with sufficient water to give the necessary coher- 
ance, and a little salt to prevent the cakes from being in- 
sipid. The quantity of water used is proportioned to the 
absorptive capacity of the meal, care being taken not to 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 187 

use more than is compatible with that friability or crispness 
which constitute|Lthe prime excellence of the cake. After 
mixture in the basin, the dough is placed on the kneading 
board, dry meal being sprinkled on the latter to prevent it 
from sticking while in a wet state. The dough is kneaded 
by the hand, dry meal being occasionally sprinkled by the 
operator over the mass during the kneading process, for the 
purpose of keeping it friable. In kneading, a flat circular 
form is given to the dough, and subsequently the wooden 
roller, or ** rolling pin " is applied to roll out the cake to 
the desired size and thickness. Meantime the '* griddle*' 
has been placed upon the fire, and the dry meal having 
been whisked off the kneading board by a brush, composed 
of feathers, the cake is slipped from the board on to the 
griddle. When the cake has been sufficiently baked on the 
under side it is cut into four equal parts by means of the 
knife already mentioned; the heart-shaped or circular 
bladed knife being slipped in between the cake and the 
griddle, the cake is turned over to be baked upon the other 
side. This is the ordinary method by which the common 
household bread is made in Scotland, but cakes of superior 
quality are made by rolling out the dough to a thinner con- 
sistency and by baking on one side only by means of the 
griddle, finishing the baking by placing the surface of the 
quarters which have not been exposed to the direct action 
of the griddle in front of a strong, bright fire. Made by 
this method the upper surface of the cake has not come into 
direct contact with the griddle, and when it is not exposed 
too long to the action of the fire, is white, and the cake has 
that crispness which makes it so enjoyable. 

SCOTCH JUMBLES. 
Same mixture as Scotch Fingers. 

SCOTCH PERKINS. 
(See OatmeaIi Snaps.) 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. 
2 lbs flour. 1 oz sweet almonds. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



/ 

188 FOBMUIi^ AND MEMORANDA. 



1 K) butter. A few strips of candied 
\ K) loaf sugar. orange peel. 

\ oz carraway seed.. • 

Worlc tlie paste until quite smootli and divide it into 6 
pieces ; put eacli cake on a separate piece of paper ; roll ttie 
paste out square about 1 inch thick, and pinch it upon all 
sides ; pinch it well and ornament it with 1 or 2 strips of 
candied orange peel. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD— REAL. 

2 lbs butter, 1 J lbs sugar. 

4 lbs flour. A little lemon zest. 
Cream the butter ; add sugar and stir until the mixture 

assumes a white appearance ; add lemon zest and a little 
milk ; mix in flour and make a short paste, but not too 
stifl"; form into squares or ovals rather more than \ inch in 
thickness ; prick them over with a fork ; put a few carraway 
comflts on the top ; bake in a moderately quick oven. 

SCOTCH SCONES. 

1 lb flour. Large pinch of salt. 

1 oz butter. A very small teaspoonful of 

1 oz su^ar. carbonate soda. 

1 pt milk. 2 teaspoons cream tartar. 

Mix the flour and butter, adding the salt and \ oz of the 
sugar; put la a plate the soda and cream tartar. Add the 
latter, when mixed, to the flour and butter and make a very 
strong wet dough with the milk ; flour the board and knead 
the dough until it will roll out; cut in two and roll each 
half 1 inch thick, making them round ; cut crosses on the 
top ; bake the scones in a moderate oven ; use soda to raise 
the scones, and the cream of tartar to neutralize the disool- 
oriiiig properties of the former. To finish the scones, take 
the yelk of eggs and a little milk and brush them over; 
sprinkle over them the remaining sugar; put in the oven 
long enough to dry. 

SCOTCH WAFERS. 

16 lbs flour.' If ozs ammonia. 

5 lbs sugar. l{ ozs cinnamon. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUIi-E AND MEJMORANDA. 189 

2 lbs lard and butter. IJ ozs ginger. 

I gal molasses. 1\ ozs allspice.. 

1 qt water. J oz mace. 
2i ozs suleratus. 

SEA BISCUIT— SEA BREAD— SEA CRACKERS. 
(See Ship's Bread.) 

SEED BISCUIT. 
1 ft) flour. J oz carraway seed» 

}ft> sugar. 3 eggs. 

} ft) butter. 

Cut with round cutters ; brush over the top with the white 
of an egg and sugar. 

SEED CAKE (1.) 
Pound cake mixture ; add a few carraway seed. 

SEED CAKE (2.) 
1 ft) flour. } oz carraway seed. 

J ft) sugar. 1 wine glass brandy. 

6 eggs. Mace and nutmeg to flavor. 

1 ft) butter. 
Bake in square cake tins. 

SEED CAKE (3.) 
(See Yeast or Luncheon Cake*) 

SEED LOAF CAKE, 
f ft) flour. f K) sugar^ 

J lb ground rice. | doz eggs (well beaten.) 

I oz carraway seed. 1 gill cream or milk. 

J ft) butter. i oz baking powder. 

Beat butter, sugar, eggs and cream for fifteen minutes; 
stir in the flour, seeds, etc., as quickly as possible ; pour into 
a cake tin ; bake an hour in a moderate oven. 

SEED LUNCH CRACKERS. 

Use Butter cracker mixture (1), with the addition of car- 
raway seed ; roll very thin and cut with round cutters. 

SHAKESPEARE CAKE. 

1 ft) flour. 18 eggs. 

I ft) sugar. Salt to taste. 

1 pt double cream.. i oz ammoDia. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



190 FOBMULiE AND MEMOKANDA. 

Mix into a smooth batter as for muffins; bake in a shal- 
low square cake pan. 

SHILLING CAKE. 

16 lbs flour. 2} qts milk. 

5 lbs butter. 4J ttoz eggs. 

10 lbs sugar. 6 ozs baking powder. 

Bake in moulds like Cup cake. 

BHIP'S BREAD (1.) 
16 lbs flour. 2J ozs salt. 

} lb lard. 2 qts water. 

Roll very thin ; cut with large round cutters. 

SHIFTS BREAD (2.) 
16 ft>s flour. 2 qts water. 

Keep the dough as tight as possible ; cut with round cut- 
ters. These biscuit are preferable when baked in a bread 
oven, that they can have a chance to dry out well ; add no 
salt or lard. 

SHORTBREAD. 
IJ lbs flour. A little essence of lemon. 

J lb sugar. A large tablespoon baking 

i Vb butter. powder. 

3 eggs. 

Make 4 cakes out of 5 ozs of the dough ; mould into a 
round form ; roll them out in an oval shape ; pinch them 
round the edges ; put a piece of candied lemon peel at the 
top ; bake slowly. 

SHORTBREAD— REAL SCOTCH. 
Same as Scotch Shortbread— Real. 

SHORTCAKE. 

8 lbs flour. 2 qts cream. 

4 ft)s butter. 4 ozs baking powder. 
Roll out i inch thick and bake ; cut in any shape desired. 

The secret of having light dough, is to handle it as little 
and mix it as quickly as possible. 

SHORTCAKE— APPLE. 
Bake Shorttake dough in two pieces; split open each 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FOKMUL^ AND MEMORANDA. 191 



cake; spread with butter quickly, and cover with apple 
jam, or apple-sauce ; pour some sweet cream over the top 
of the apple ; grate nutmeg over it; cover with the other 
half, placed crust side down ; spread it with butter and 
proceed as before. It can be made of one, or three layers. 

SHORTCAKE— CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
Strawberry or other Shortcake served with Charlotte 
Russe in place of cream. 

SHORTCAKE— PEACH (1.) 
Same as Strawberry shortcake (3), using prepared peaches 
in place of strawberries. 

SHORTCAKE— PEACH (2.) 

6 ozs butter. 12 ozs flour. 

6 ozs sugar. 1 gill brandy. 

3 eggs. i teaspoon cinnamon. 

Bake in jelly cake pans, or in plain oval moulds ; when 
done, turn them out of the moulds. Peel and stone the 
peaches ; divide them in halves and place them in a stew 
pan, with about 1 pt syrup; parboil them; place one of 
the cakes upon a dish ; lay on it a layer of the peaches ; 
place another of the cakes on top of this, and over this 
jnore peaches; pour over the whole about half the syrup 
111 which the peaches were cooked. Beat the whites of 8 
eggs to a stiff snow ; stir gently into it 6 ozs fine sugar ; 
spread this mass nicely all over the peaches and cake; dust 
the top lightly with fiue sugar and set in the oven for three 
oi four minutes to take a golden color. Serve hot or cold, 
And send the remainder of the syrup to table as a sauce for 
the cake. 

SHORTCAKE— RASPBERRY (1.) 
Same as Strawberry shortcake (3), using raspberries in 
place of strawberries. 

SHORTCAKE— RASPBERRY (2.) 
Same as Apple shortcake, using ripe raspberries dusted 
plentifully with sugar and cream. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



192 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

SHORTCAKE-RHUBARB. 
Same as Apple shortcake; in place of apple sauce, use 
Rhubarb paste made as follows: — cut in small pieces two 
bunches of the fruit, after stripping off the skin ; cook it 
very fast in a shallow stew pan, with Jib sugar. 

SHORTCAKE— STRAWBERRY (1.) 
Split open Shortcakes ; fill between the slices with straw- 
berries prei[3ared with plenty of sugar and cream. 

Strawberries for shortcake should be good and clean and 
that do not need washing, as it is well known that washing 
destroys the delicate flavor of the berries ; pick them clean^ 
taking care not to mutilate them in the least* 

SHORTCAKE-STRAWBERRY (2). 
Put strawberries and sugar on to a sheet of shortcake; 
then a thiu sheet of sponge cake ; then a layer of strftw- 
berries with sugar sprinkled on them ; cover over with kiss 
batter; set in a cold oven to let the kiss batter get a little 
hard. 

SHORTCAKE-STRAWBERRY (3.) 

1 qt flour. Salt. 

2 ozs butter. Milk or water to make a 
2 ( zs sugar. soft dough. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Roll out almost as thin as pie-crust; place one layer in a 
baking pan, upon which sprinkle some flour; add another 
layer of crust and spread as before, and so on until the crust 
is all used (this makes four layers in a pan 7x14 inches); 
bake about 15 minutes in a quick oven ; turn upside down ; 
take off the top layer (the bottom when baking) ; place on 
a dish ; spread plentifully with strawberries, not mashed 
but previously sweetened with pulverized sugar; place 
layer upon layer, treating each one in the same way; serve 
warm with sugar and cream. 

SHORTCAKE— STRAWBERRY (4.) 
Take a thick sheet of Sponge cake; cover with three or 
four layers of strawberries; sprinkle sugar all over ; cover 
with kiss batter, and let it get hard in the oven. 



. ^Digitized by Google 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 193 

SHORTCAKE— STRAWBERRY MERINGUE. 

2tt)8 best pastry flour. J % sugar. 

iHb fresh butter. Salt. 

1 oz baking powder. Milk to make a nice dough. 

2 eggs. 

Mix as for ordinary pie crust ; roll a little thicker and 
bake in a flat pan ; beat up the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff 
froth ; add 8 ozs pulverized sugar ; put in the strawberries 
and mix as gently as possible; place the strawberry mer- 
ingue on the cake as directed above, in one or two layers as 
desired; place in the oven till they are of a nice color. 

SHREWSBURY CAKE. 

1 lb flour. i doz eggs. 

i Tb sugar. A little lemon zest. 

I lb butter. 

Mix together ; form into a paste with eggs and a very lit- 
tle milk ; roll out about i inch thick ; cut with a round, 
diamond, or heartHshaped cutter; place on a clean bakings 
sheet ; bake in a sharp oven. 

SICILY BISCUIT. 

1 n> flour. 30 eggs. 

If fts sugar. 5 ozs candled orange peeL 

8 ozs almonds, chopped flne. ^ oz cloves. 

Mix well the sugar, orange peel and the yolks of the 
eggs; work well together, and beat in the whites, adding 
gradually the flour, almonds and flavor ; lay out the size of 
walnuts, with bag and tube, on pans ; or they may be baked 
in small moulds. 

SICILY BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

SILVER CAKE. 
(See White Cake or Lady Oakb.) 

SIMNEL CAKE. 
16 lbs flour. 1 ft) chopped lemon and 

4 ft)S butter. orange peels. 

3 ft)8 currants. Color with extract of saf- 
Cinnamon flavor. fron. 

13 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



194 FORMUL.^ AND MEMORANDA. 

Make a spoDge, and proceed as for Buns (1) ; roll out the 
size of a dinner plate; pinch the edges around and dust 
with sugar before baking. 

SMALL BREAKFAST BRIOCHE. 
(See Brioche.) 

SMALL JUMBLES. 
Use Jumble mixture (1); cut with small Jumble cutters. 

SMALL SOUFFLES. 

( See SouFFiiES.) 

SNAP AND RATTLE. 
Crumpets made with about J rye flour ; after being baked 
they are hung over lines to dry, when they become as brit- 
tle as glass. They are used in some parts of England with 
beer as the Germans use Pretzels. 

SNOW BALLS. 

1 qt whites of eggs. 4-4 J lbs pulverized sugar. 

Mix, and lay out on boards as for meringues; lay out 
with a bag, star tube, in rows, the size of a large hickory 
nut ; squeeze out through the tube, and lift it up so they 
may come to a point on top and large on bottom; sift sugar 
over them and bake in a cold oven ; when done and set, put 
two of them together, and color in the oven. 

SNOW CAKE. 
1 lb Bermuda arrowroot Almond, vanilla and lemon 

i lb sugar. flavor. 

i lb butter. Flour to make a consistent 

Whites of 6 eggs. dough. 

Bake in square cake pans ; cover with Royal Icing. 

SNOW DROPS. 
1 lb prepared flour. i doz whites of eggs. 

i ft) sugar. J gill milk. 

J ft) butter. Vanilla & nutmeg to flavor. 

Bake in small round tins, in the shape of fluted shells, etc. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 195 

SODA BISCUIT (1.) 

1 lb flour. 2 eggs. 

J K) sugar. I teaspoon soda. 

J lb butter. 

After the soda is added, great expedition is necessary in 
Tolling and cutting the paste; put the biscuit into the oven 
immediately. 

SODA BISCUIT (2.) 

1 qt flour. 1 teaspoon soda. 

2 teaspoons cream tartar. Salt. 

Make a dough, not too stifl", with new milk ; mould and 
knead it well ; roll out } inch thick ; out into biscuits. 

SODA BKEAD. 
2 fi»s flour. 1 teaspoon soda. 

1 teaspoon tartaric acid. 1 pt milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Add the acid and salt to the flour; dissolve the soda in 
the milk. 

SODA CAKE. 
1 fi» flour. Salt. 

i % sugar. A few blanched almonds, 

1 teaspoon soda. chopped, and some strips 

6 ozs fresh butter or lard. of candied orange or ie- 

^ i tt> currauts. mon peel. 

Make the above dry mixture into a stiff* batter, with about 
i pt warm milk whisked up with 3 eggs ; beat the whole 
well together and bake immediately. Instead of milk and 
eggs, buttermilk may be used, with which the other ingre- 
dients should be made into a soft dough. A small quantity 
of ground cinnamon, allspice and carraway seed may be 
introduced, and salt butter used instead of fresh, in which 
case the salt may be omitted. 

SODA CRACKERS. 

16 ft>s flour. 2 J ozs salt. 

1 pt ferment. li-2 ozs soda. 

2 lbs lard. 1 qt water. 

Set a sponge over night; dissolve the soda in a little water 
and mix thoroughly through the dough; let the dough 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



196 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

stand four or five hours to become sour enough to absorb 
the soda ; roll out, and cut with soda cutters. 

SODA CRACKERS— ENGLISH. 
( See English Soda Crackers.) 

SODA WAFERETTES. 
Boda crackers made of fine stock and rolled very thin» 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 
(See Gingerbread.) 

SOFT JUMBLES. 
1 lb sugar. 1 teaspoon pulverized pea^ 

1 % butter. kernels. 

8 eggs, well beaten. Flour to make a stiff batter. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake in tart tins. 

SOFT MOLASSES CAKl 
Use Soft Gingerbread mixture, with or without the 
flavoring; bake in papered tins. 

SOFT WAFFLES. 
1 fi> flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

i oz pugar. IJ pts milk. 

1 oz butter. Salt to taste. 

2 eggs. 

Rub in the butter cold ; mix into a smooth consistent bat> 
ter that will run easily from the mouth of a pitcher. 

SOIREE CRACKERS. 
Same as Nic-nacs. 

SOUFFLES— ALMOND. 

8 ozs Jordan almonds, finely 1 ^ lbs fine sifted icing sugar. 

pounded. Flavors: orange, lemon, va- 

1 oz bitter almonds, finely nilla, cinnamon, etc., as 

pounded. desired. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

The flavoring must be added to Royal Icing made fronok 
the whites of two eggs, to finish the souffles ; roll cut the 
paste with sugar to the thickness of i inch; spread the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 197 

icing easily upon this, and use either tin cutters or a knife 
to stamp or cut rings, esses, crescents, trefoils, diamonds, 
hearts, spades, etc.; or else in order to occasion no waste, 
cut in squares, triangles, lozenges, etc.; bake on paper a 
light color. 

SOUFFLES- MACAROONS. 

(See SoUFFIiES—AliMOND.) 

SOUFFLES— MASSEPAINS. 

(See Massepains— SouFFiiES.) 

SOUFFLES— PISTACHIO. 
10 ozs pistachios. Royal rose-pink icing, made 

IJ lbs fine sugar. from the whites of 2 

Whites of 3 eggs. eggs. 

A few drops oil rose. 
Proceed as for Almond Souffles. 

SOUFFLES— SMALL, IN CASES. 
Whites of 4 eggs. 2 ozs candied orange-flow- 

12 ozs sifted sugar. ers, slightly hruised. 

Whisk the whites stiff; three-fourths fill paper cases 
with the paste. 

SOUFFLES— SMALL, OF PISTACHIOS. 
Whites of 4 eggs. 2 ozs shred pistachios. 

12 ozs sifted sugar. 1 tablespoon vanilla sugar. 

SOUFFLES— SMALL, WITH CANDIED PEEL. 
Whites of 4 eggs. 2 ozs finely shred candied 

12 ozs sifted sugar. peels. 

1 oz Diavolini. 

Whisk the whites stiff; incorporate the sugar, diavolini 
and peels ; nearly fill small paper cases ; bake of a light color. 

SOUFFLES— SMALL, WITH CHOCOLATE. 
Whites of 4 eggs. 2 ozs grated chocolate. 

12 ozs sifted sugar. 1 tablespoon vanilla sugar. 

SOUFFLES— ZEPHERS. 
(See Zepher Souffles.) 

SOUR RYE BREAD. 
( See Rye Bread— Black.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



198 FOBMUIiJB AND MEMORANDA. 

SPANISH BUNS* 

( See Buns.) 

SPANISH FINGERS. 
( See Lady Fingers— Spanish.) 

SPANISH MACAROONS. 
(See Macaroons.) 

SPANISH SWEEDES. 

1 S» pulverized sugar. One whole egg and white 
f lt> fi g ely chopped almonds. of another. 

J lt> flour. Vanilla flavor. 

Mould the size of a walnut; bake of a light color on 
separate pieces of wafer paper, placed on pans ; they can 
be varied in size. Out each wafer like a leaf and spread 
I inch thick ; when done put on rolling pin to give it an 
arched shape ; or it may be formed into any shape. 

SPANISH TART. 

Jib flour. 8 eggs, well beaten. 

J ft> sugar. i % corn starch. 

Zest of one lemon. J lb melted butter. 

Stir all together; lay out on round pans in two pieces r 
put in between each layer, after it is baked, f^ple marma- 
lade made with brandy ; mix in it a little rose-flavor ; ice- 
with punch icing, and ornament with different jellies, 
assorted colors. 

SPANISH WAFERS. 

9 ozs flour. i pt of water-chocolate (con- 

2 ozs sifted sugar. sisting of 2 ozs French 
^eggs. or Spanish chocolate 
1 gill cream, dissolved in } pt boiling 
Vanilla flavor. water, and mulled.) 
Curl in the form of a cornucopia, using a wooden form or 

mandril, upon which to shape the wafers. 

SPENCER CAKES. 

} lb flour. i oz coriander seed. 

i lb sugar. | oz ammonia. 

8 eggs. Lemon zest to flavor. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULJE AND MEMORANDA. 199 

Mix into a rather stifiTspoDge; drop in spoonfuls on a 
greased tin. 

SPICE CAKE (1.) 

1 lb flour. J oz earraway seed. 

Jfi> butter. i oz coriander seed. 

I fi> brown sugar. J oz mixed spices. 

1 gill milk. Pinch ammonia. 

Mix into a batter of medium thickness ; fill greased patty 
tins two-thirds full. 

SPICE CAKE (2.) 
i % floui . 2 ozs seedless raisins. 

1 fb butter. 2 ozs picked currants. 
i lb sugar. i oz mixed spices. 

2 eg^s. Pinch ammonia. 
1 gill milk. 

Mix into a rather firm batter ; bake in a paper lined cake 
tin. 

SPICE CAKES (1.) 

1 lb brown sugar. 2 ozs ginger. 

J lb lard. Flour to make a medium 

1 qt molasses. dough. 

1 oz allspice. 

Roll in long round pieces; cut ofl' the size of a hickory 
nut; make round anil fiatten on the top; pan loosely, as 
they spread a great deal. 

SPICE CAKES (2.) 
16ft>s flour. 2 doz ejrgs. 

J gallon molasses. 4J pints water. 

3 lbs butter or lard. 3 ozs cinnamon. 
3 lbs brown sugar. 6 ozs soda. 

Cut with round cutters. 

SPICE CRACKERS. 
Same mixture as for Spice cakes (2), using ginger in place 
of cinnamon ; cut with plain, medium sized round cutters. 

SPICE DROPS. 
16 fi>s flour. 2 J qts molasses 

3 lbs brown sugar. 2 pt water. 
1 J lbs lard or butter. 5 ozs soda. 

4 doz eggs. Ginger, cloves, etc, to flavor 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



20Q FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

Beatuniil tough and stringy like boiled sugar; drop on 
oiled pans. 

SPICE JUMBLES (1.) 
16 lbs flour. } lt> ginger. 

4 lbs butter. i oz allspice. 

4 lbs sugar. I tt> saleratus. 

i gallon molasses. J pt water. 

SPICE JUMBLES (2.) 
16 lbs flour. • Si ozs each cinnamon and 

4 lbs sugar. ginger. 

2Jfi>s lard. 1 oz mixea spices. 

1 qt N. O. molasses. J lb soda. 

2 ozs salt. 

SPICE NUTS (1.) 
16 lbs flour, 2J ozs each ginger and all- 

4 lbs lard. spice. 

^ lbs sugar. About 1 pt water. 

6 ozs soda. | gallon N. O. molasses. 

SPICE NUTS (2.) . 
16 lbs floui, i oz cloves. 

1 gallon molasses. | oz cinnamon. 

3 lbs lard. 2 ozs soda. 

5 lbs brown sugar. 1 oz tartaric acid, 

4 ozs ginger. 

SPICE NUTS (3.) 
16 lbs flour. 1 J ozs cloves. 

t5 lbs* sugar, 2| ozs cinnamon. 

2J lbs lard. 4 ozs saleratus. 

J gal molasses. i oz tartaric acid, 

f qt water. 

SPICE SNAPS. 
Use same mixiure as for Spice nuts ; cut with snap cutters, 

SPONGE ABERNETHY BISCUIT. 

(See ABERNETHY BiSCUlT (2.) 

SPONGE BISCUIT (1), COLD METHOD, 

6 ozs flour. } ft) sugar. 

5 eggs. A little lemon zest. 

Beat up the yolks and sugar to a rather firm batter; beat 
the whites stiff and mix in lightly ; finish by stirring in the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ft'OHilULJE AND MJvMORANDA. 201 

flour; fill into small buttered sponge frames; dust with 
sugar through a lawn sieve; bake in a moderate oven, and 
turn them out on sieves to cool. 

SPONGE BISCUIT (2). HOT METHOD. 
Same as Sponge biscuit (1) ; proceed as for Savoy biscuit, 
hot method. 

SPONGE CAKE (1.) 
1 doz eggs. 1 lb powdered sugar. 

1 lb flour. 

Beat yolks and sugar together ; beat whites separately till 
quite hara ; mix and add flour gently; flavor to fancy. 

SPONGE CAKE (2.) 
3 lbs flour. 30 eggs. 

3 lbs sugar. Flavor as desired. 

SPONGE CAKE— ALMOND. 
Sponge cake mixture, flavored with extract bitter al- 
mond; bake in tin moulds 8x12 inches and 2^ inches high ; 
ice with Royal icing ; mark in three equal parts by making 
two marks across ; then mark it in the length J inch wide. 
This cake is not cut to sell. 

SPONGE CAKE— BERWICK. 
Sponge cake mixture ; flavor with lemon and bake in 
shallow square cake pan ; cover with Royal icing. 

SPONGE CAKE-COCOANUT. 
Ordinary Sponge cake mixture; strew the top with 
cocoanut, cut in strips. 

SPONGE CAKE— CREAM (1.) 

3 eggs, well beaten. 1 gill cold water. 

6 ozs sugar. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

ifi> flour. 

Beat well and bake on jelly-pans. For the cream take J 
pt milk, i fi> sugar, 2 eggs and 1 tablespoon corn starch; 
heat the milk almost to boiling ; beat the eggs ; add the 
sugar and corn starch mixed with a little cold milk ; pour 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



202 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

the whole into the hot milk and stir over the fire until 
quite thick; flavor with lemon or vanilla; when cool, 
spread between the layers ; cover the top with Boyal icing. 

SPONGE CAKE-CREAM (2.) 
Take slices of stale sponge cake and arrange them in a 
deep dish ; pour over them a custard made as follows : to 1 
qt of milk take 4 eggs, well beaten ; sweeten and flavor to 
taste; put in apiccher ornew tin pail and set in a kettle of 
water; let the water boil, stirring the custard occasionally 
until it is of the consistency of thick cream ; pour over the 
sponge cake. 

SPONGE CAKE— CUSTARD. 
Same as Sponge Cake— Cream (1.) 

SPONGE CAKE- WHITE. 

Sponge cake— using only the whites of the eggs. 

SPONGE CAKE— WINE. 
Lay out J inch thick; ice with wine icing; mark in 
squares about li inches. 

SPONGE CRACKERS. 
16 ft>s flour. About 1 J gills stock yeast. 

Set a sponge overnight; make a dough in the morning 
with water, using lard and salt, etc., as for other crackers,, 
but not quite so much soda. 

SPONGE DROPS (1.; 
Same as Sponge crackers; make the mixture a little 
slacker and add flavoring as desired. 

SPONGE DROPS (2.) 
1 lb flour. 1 K) powdered sugar. 

9 eggs. Lemon flavor. 

Mix as for Sponge cake ; with bag and tube drop the size 

of walnuts on paper ; dust with sugar and bake; when done 

and cold remove from the paper by wetting it on the back ; 

stick two together, gently pressing them while they are yet 

moist. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORAJSDA. 203 

SPONGE FINGERS. 
Use Sponge cracker mixture, adding flavoring as desired. 

SPONGE RUSKS. 
These are more properly buns ; see Buns (1,) 

SPRING WHEAT CRACKERS. 
16 fba flour. 2 lbs lard. 

1 pt ferment, 1 to 2 ozs soda. 

2i ozs salt. 

Set a sponge ; let stand about six hours ; make the dough 
with water and let it stand twelve hours. 

SQUASH GRIDDLE CAKES. 

1 pt cold stewed squash. 4 eggs, well beaten. 

1 pt graham flour. 1 pt milk. 

1 pt corn meal. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Have the squash free from lumps ; dilute with the beaten 
eggs and milk ; sift together graham flour, corn meal, salt 
and powder, which add to the other preparation; mix 
smooth and thoroughly into a batter that will run from the 
mouth of the pitcher in a thick stream ; bake on a hot grid- 
dle in cakes the size of dessert plates ; brown on both sides* 

STALE BREAD. 

According to M. Boussingault new bread differs from old, 
not by containing a larger proportion of water, but by a 
peculiar molecular condition. This commences and con- 
tinues to change during <?ooling, but by again heating the 
bread to a certain temperature it is restored to its original 
Btate. It is the mechanical state which makes new bread 
less digestable than old. 

Consonant with the above there is a possibility of re-al- 
tering the molecular condition, orii ther words of making 
stale bread fresh. An ingenious method of doing this on a 
limited scale, is to put a small loaf into a closely covered 
tin, and expose it for half an hour or longer to a heat not 
greater than that of boiling water; then remove the tin> 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



204 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

and allow it to cool; the loaf will then be restored to the 
appearance and properties of new bread. 

Another method of freshening stale bread is to place the 
loaf, roll or cake in a steamer over boiling water for ten 
minutes or more according to size ; take it out, allow the 
steam to evaporate completely ; in a short time the bread 
will eat like new, 

STALE BISCUIT. 

Stale cream biscuit can be so nicely warmed over that 
none can object to eating them. They may be broken 
apart, and a quarter of an hour before wanted for use, 
should be dipped separately into a bowl of clear water, and 
replaced in the baking tin in the oven. They should 
simply be heated through, but not brown or crisp. 

STALE CRACKERS. 
Crackers that are not fresh can be made to appear so by 
putting them into a hot oven for a short time. Watch 
them carefully, as a minute too long will serve to brown 
and spoil them. 

STARS— CRACKERS. 
Use butter cracker mixture ; cut with star cutters. 

STICKS OF VANILLA. 
1 S» pulverized sugar. 6 ozs butter, dissolved. 

1 tt> flour. 4 tablespoons vanilla sugar. 

Yolks of 16 egg?. 

Fill a biscuit forcer with the paste, using a funnel, the 
point of which is the same width as a stick of vanilla ; 
push out the paste on a table strewn with sifted sugar ; cut 
the piping in 4 or 5 inch lengths; lay out straight, or rather 
in close parallel rows on a waxed baking sheet ; pipe with 
Royal Icing flavored with vanilla sugar; bake of a light 
color. 

STOCK YEAST CRACKERS. 
(See Sponge Crackers.) 

STONEWALL JACKSON CAKE. 
A layer of Pound cake dough, a layer of Lady cake, and 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 205 

a layer of sponge cake, each one inch thick ; lay out the 
first two 12 inches in diameter; put jelly between them 
and on top; add the sponge cake; cover the top with pink 
Royal Icing, flavored with vanilla; place 2 doz halves of 
cream kisses on the side of the sponge and other cake to 
form a picket fence for a border; ornament^ put five gum 
leaves in the centre with fiowers and roses; lastly festoon 
it on the sides. 

STORES PILOT BREAD. 
(See Pilot Bread.) 

STRAWBERRIES— MERINGUES, 
( See Meringues— Strawberries.) 

STRAWBERRY CAKE. 
16 lbs fiour. 3 qts sweet milk. 

8 lbs sugar. 1^ ozs tartaric acid. 

2i lbs lard. 3 ozs soda, 

ij lbs butter. 3 J ozs ammonia. 

2i pts eggs. i oz extract strawberry. 

Cut round or square as desired ; pipe over with pink icing. 

STRAWBERRY FINGERS. 
Same as Strawberry cake; cut with finger cutters; mask 
with pink icing. 

fcJTRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

(See Shortcake.) 

STUDENT CAKE. 

1 fl) fiour. J 1t> fine cut almonds. 

2 tt)8 cake crumbs, rubbed 1 teaspoon cloves. 

through a sieve. A little red pepper. 

1 lb sugar. } gill water. 

i % butter. 1 teaspoon soda. 

6 eggs. 

Make and finish as for Shrewsbury cake; when done, 
cover the tops with icing fiavored with vanilla. 

STUFFED MAGDALEN CAKES. 
(See Magdalen Cakes.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



206 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

SUGAR BREAD. 
1 lb flour. 1 fb sugar. 

J fc fine rubbed bitter al- Whites of 12 eggs. 

monds. 
Cut in strips 2} inches long; lay out on floured pans; 
bake in a moderate oven. 

SUGAR BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

SUGAR CAKE. 
2fi>s floun i doz eggs. 

1 Jb sugar. I oz ammonia. 
} K) butter. 

Bake in shallow cake pan. 

SUGAR CAKES. 
16 lbs flour. i oz oJl lemon. 

5 fbs sugar. i\ ozs ammonia. 
2tt>s butter and lard. l| ozs saleratus. 

2 qts sour milk. 

Cut with Sugar cake cutters. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 
(See Cookies.) 

SUGAR CRACKERS (1.) 
16 lbs flour. 2i qts water. 

2 fi>s lard. 5 ozs ammonia. 

3 fi>s sugar. 

Cut with round cutters. 

SUGAR CRACKERS (2.) 
16 lbs flour. IJ lbs lard. 

2 qts water. 2 ozs ammonia. 

6 fi>s granulated sugar. 

. SUGARED DOTS. 
(See D1AVOL.INI.) 

SUGAR FINGERS. 
16 fi>s flour. i gal sweet milk 

8 lbs powdered sugar* 1 qt eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 207 

2i tt>s butter. 1 J ozs soda. 

l|lbs lard. i oz oil lemon. 

2 ozs ammoDla. 

SUGAR JUMBLES. 
168)8 flour. 1 pt eggs. 

51b8suffar. ]|qts sour milk. 

1 lb lard. 1 \ ozs ammonia. 

1 fi» butter. J oz oil lemon. 

SUGAR JUMBLES— WHITE. 
(See White Sugar Jumbles.) 

SUGAR MUFFINS. 

1 qt flour. li pts milk. 

2 ozs sugar. i teaspoon salt. 

1 oz lard. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

2 eggs. 

Bake in cold muffin pans, two-thirds fllled, and wel^ 
rgreased. 

SUGAR SNAPS. 
Use Sugar-flnger mixture. 

SUGAR TOP FRUIT CAKE. 
(See Fbuit Cake.) 

SULTANA CAKE. 

5 lb flour. 1 gill thick cream. 

% butter. 1 lb Sultana raisins. 

6 ozs sugar. 2 ozs chopped citron. 

i doz eggs. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Mix into a rather Arm batter; bake in a square cake 
pan ; cover the top with transparent icing. 

SULTAN CAKE. 
1} lbs flour. i lb almonds, rubbed fine. 

} lb sugar. Whites of 3 eggs. 

} lb butter. 

Cut with round cutters; bake on paper; stick two together 
^ith jelly ; mask them with icing, colored and flavored as 
^desired. 

SURPRISE BISCUIT— APRICOT. 
Proceed with, lay out, and join them as Peach Surprise 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



208 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

biscuit, only a little smaller; dip them into a glace icing, 
colored with a little saffron, slightly tinged with cochineal. 
Various fruits can be imitated, in a similar manner, by 
varying the vegetable colors. 

SURPBI8E BISCUIT— PEACH. 
Prepare a Savoy biscuit mixture (cold method) ; lay them 
out on fools-cap paper with a biscuit bag; dust over with 
sugar as usual; when baked, cut them off" and join two 
together with apricot jam; dip them in a glace icing, 
slightly colored with saffron, and imitate the pink bloom 
with a little dry carmine, used with great care. 

SURPRISE BfSCUIT— PEAR. 
Prepare as for Peach Surprise biscuit, laying out in the 
form of pears; bake them; join and mask with apricot 
jam; then dip into glace icing ; stick on a dried currant for 
the eye, and a slip of angelica for the stalk. 

SURPRISE BISCUIT— PLUM. 
Proceed with, lay out and join as for Peach Surprise bis* 
cuit, with this exception : viz., laying them out in the form 
of plums and coloring by dipping them into glace icings 
tinged with extract of spinach. 

SWEET POTATO BREAD. 
1 % sugar. i lb sweet potatoes boiled 

ifi# butter. and mashed, or rubbed 

8 eggs, well beaten, through a colender. 

i pt iTiilk. 1 qt corn meal. 

1 tea- poon salt. 

Make into loaves and bake 1^ hours. 

SWEET POTATO BUNS. 

( See Buns.) 

SWEET SEED BISCUIT. 
12 lbs flour. 24 eggs. 

2 tt)S butter. J oz ammonia. 

3 fcs powdered sugar. i lb carraway seed. 

Milk to mix to a very easy dough ; add seed ; roll J inr.h 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULJE AND MEMORANDA. 209 

thick; dust with fine sugar; cut with medium sized oval 
cutters; pan ; bake in a solid oven. 

SWEET WAFERS. 

(See Wafers.) 

SWISS BUNS. 
(See Buns.) 

SWISS GINGERBREAD. 
( See Gingerbread.) 

SWISS LECRELETS. 

8 ozs honey. 6 ozs candied orange, lemon 

6 ozs shred almonds. and citron peels. 

i oz cinnamon. 1 gill orange flower water. 

i oz cloves. Grated rind of 2 lemons. 

I grated nutmeg. 1 lb flour, including the 

6 ozs sifted sugar. quantity required to 

i oz carb. soda. work the paste when 

1 gill kirschenwasser. finished. 

Put the honey in a coflTee bowl on the fire to melt, and 
skim off the froth; add the almonds immediately, the 
spices and lemon zest, mix thoroughly ; add the sugar, shred 
candied peels, liqueur and orange flower water; work all 
together until incorporated; lastly work in the soda, dis- 
solved in a spoonful of water and 14 ozs of the flour; work 
paste over the stove fire (slow heat) for 6 minutes, and turn 
it out into a basin to be set aside (covered over) in a cool 
place, so that it may rest for three days previous to its being 
used, according to the following directions : 

Divide the lecrelet paste into four equal parts; roll these 
out with flour reserved for the purpose, on the slab, to the 
thickness of J inch; lay them on buttered and floured bak- 
ing plates; mark out the shape and size of the cakes with 
the back part of a knife, by marking rather deep incisions 
in the form of oblong squares measuring lx2i inches; re- 
move all flour from their surfaces with a damp brush ; push 
them into the oven (very moderate heat) and when three 
parts baked, take ttiem out of the oven ; brush them over 
with a thin coat of Royal Icing and flnish baking them of 
14 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



210 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

a light color. When cold, break up the lecrelets as marked 
out, and keep them in a tin box in a dry place. These 
cakes last good for months. 

SWISS MACAROONS. 
(See Macaroons.) 

SWISS MUFFINS. 
1} pts flour. J pt milk. 

2 ozs sugar. i teaspoon salt. 

1 oz butter. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

4 eggs, well beaten. 
Bake in half-filled cold mufiQn pans, well greased. 

SWISS RUSK. 

} lb butter. J lb sifted flour. 

i Vb sifted sugar. i fb ground almonds. 

8 eggs. A little lemon zest. 

Spread over a buttered and sugared square tin with a 
turned up edge; the mixture must be spread about an inch 
thick; bake in a moderate oven; when done, turn* it out 
on a sheet of paper; when cold, cut into shapes according 
to fancy. 

TANGERINE-ORANGE BISCUIT. 

Same as Naples drops or fingers; prepare the drops or 
size and shape so that when two are stuck together with 
orange marmalade, they may realize a correct resemblance 
to a Tangerine orange; mark them with orange marmalade 
frae from any peel, to give them a smooth surface; glace 
them entirely with transparent icing, flavored and tinged 
with enough orange sugar to give them the natural color 
color of the fruit; imitate the stalks with angelica. 

TAVERN CRACKERS. 
(See English Tavern Crackers.) 

TAYLOR CAKE. 
4 lbs flour. 1 qt molasses. 

1 R butter. } pt milk. 

i fi> sugar. 2 ozs soda. 

10 eggs. Mixed spices to flavor. 

Bake in deep cake pans. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



J 



FORMUIiA AND MEMORANDA. 211 

TEA BISCUIT (1.) 
4Ibs sifted flour. 6 ozs melted butter. 

4 ozs German yei*st. 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 pt milk. 

Set the sponge and when raised add butter and salt, 
make a light dough; let it rise once; make it into biscuit; 
place them upon biscuit plates; set in a warm situation 
until light; bake in a good oven. 

TEA BISCUIT (2.) 
16 lbs flour, 2} ozs soda. 

2 lbs lard. l| ozs tartaric acid. 

3 fi>s sugar. 2 qts water. 
J lb starch. 

Out with small sized soda cutters. 

• 

TEA BISCUIT (3.) . 
16 ft>8 flour. 2 lbs lard. 

2 qts water. 1 to 2 ozs carraway seed. 

3 lbs sugar. 1} ozs ammonia. 

TEA BISCUIT (4.) 
Into a quart of flour mix a teaspoonful of carbonate of 
soda, two teaspoon fuls of cream of tartar, and a good pinch 
of salt; rub into the above a; tablespoon ful of butter, add 
milk enough to give it the consistency of a stifl" batter; 
droppieces— sizeof an e^^^ and each a short distant apart— 
on a greased tin, and bake in a quick. oven fifteen minutes. 
The lightness of these ** biscuits" depends upon the quick 
mixing, and putting in a hot oven directly. When baked, 
they should be broken apart, and be sent to table imme- 
diately; they are eaten with butter. A dozen ** biscuits" 
should be made from this quantity. 

TEA CAKE. 
Same as Coffee cake (2), substituting tea in place of cofl'ee. 

TEA CAKES. 
IJ lbs flour, 1 lb sugar. 

J it) butter. J doz eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



212 FORMUIi-ffi AND MEMORANDA. 

Mix with milk into a soft dough; roll i inch thick; cut 
round, and wash over with milk. 

TEA BUNS. 
( See Buns.) 

TIPSEY CAKE. 
A moulded Sponge or Savoy 6 tablespoons brandy, 
cake. 2 ozs sweet almonds. 

Sufficient wine or sherry to 1 pt rice custard. 

soaked it in. 
Procure a three day old cake; cut the bottom level to 
make it stand firm in the dish; make a small hole in the 
centre and pour in and over the cake sufficient wine, mixed 
with the above proportion of brandy, to soak it nicely; 
when well soaked, blanoh and cut the almonds into stripe ; 
stick them all over the cake, and pour the custard around it. 

TOAST CRACKERS. 
Use long round rolls of nicely baked stale bread; cut in 
in slices and brown on both sides in a hot oven. 

TORONI BIANCA. 

8 ozs sifted sugar. Spoonful of orange flower 

8 ozs thinly sliced filberts. water. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

Whi3k the sugar, whites and flavor over a slow flre till of 
the consistency of meringue paste; add the filberts and stir 
well; lay in the form of small ovals upon sheets of wafer 
upon a baking plate. 

TORONI ROSSA. 

8 ozs almonds, shred. Tablespoon vanilla sugar. 

8 ozs sifted sugar. A few drops prepared cochi- 

Whites of 3 eggs. neal. 

2 ozs candied orange peel. 

Proceed as for Toroni Bianca, adding almonds, orange 
peel, vanilla and cochineal last; spread out the paste one 
inch thick upon sheets of wafer; cover them with another 
two sheets of wafer; use a plate to press them level; bake 
in a moderate oven ; when nearly cold, cut in oblong squares. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 213 

TORTOLONG. 

3 lbs flour. 1 doz eggs. 

i fit) butter. Pinch salt. 

6 ozs powdered sugar. 

Mix thoroughly ; roll the dough into a lonj:, thin, saus- 
age-like shape, and cut it into about 4 inch lengths; bend 
them into rings, linking two and two together, and neatly- 
Joining the ends by folding over and pressing them lightly 
into one. Throw them into boiling water for a moment^ 
until they rise to the surface, then into a bowl of cold water, 
and let them soak from 10 to 20 hours. When wanted for 
use, drain them in a sieve, put them on a thin sheet of 
iron, slip into the oven, and let them bake to a light brown. 
The oven must be very hot, and they must be watched 
closely to see that they puff and grow big enough, for if at 
all over done or burned, they are spoiled. 

TOY CRACKNELS. 
Use Cracknel biscuit mixture (1); cut in small, fancy 
shapes, and proceed as for Cracknels. 

TRI-COLOR CAKE. 
A layer of white cake J inch thick. 
A layer of gold cake J inch thick. 
A layer of gold cake (made with pink granite sugar in 

place of white) J inch thick. 
Lay the red in the centre, the yellow underneath, and 
the white abov-e ; lay them together while warm, putting 
jelly or coooanut frosting between. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKE. 
Bake a Sponge cake mixture, orange flavor, in a plain 
cylinder mould; when cold, cut in thin slices; lay the 
bottom piece on a plate, spread over any kind of fruit jelly 
and 2 tablespoons of any kind of wine; repeat this until all 
the cake is used; mask the top and sides of the cake with 
Royal Icing; sift sugar over it, and set it in a cool oven to 
get just a fawn color; when about to serve, slide it oft the 
plate on to a glass dish, and pile round it 1 pt whipped 
cream, flavored with rose. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



214 FORMULiB AND MEMORANDA. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKES (1.) 
A lb flour. i nutmeg. 

6 ozssugar. J ft raisius. 

2 ozsbutter. Jib citron. 

6 yolks, well beaten. J lb currants. 

1 glass wine. 1 teaspoon soda» 
Bake in rings; mask with cracker icing. 

TUNBKIDGE CAKES (2.) 
16 fcs flour. 2 pts eggs. 

8 lbs sugar. 3 pts water. 

1 J lbs butter. Oil orange to flavor. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKES (3.) 
16 lbs flour. 8 lbs granulated sugar. 

2 lbs butter. } oz ammonia. 

3 pts water. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKES— CARRAW AY. 

Use Tun bridge cakes mixture (2) ; use carraway seed in 
place of oil orange. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKES-CITRON. 

Use Tunbridge cakes mixture (1) ; use double the quan- 
tity of citron and half the quantity of currants and raisin&u 

TUNBRIDGE CAKES— CURRANT. 
Use Tunbridge cakes mixture (2), using currants plenti- 
fully in place of oil orange. 

TURIN ROLLS. 

2} lbs flour. 8 ozs butter. 

Yolks of 8 eggs. 1 oz German yeast 

2 ozs sifted sugar. i oz salt. 

1 pt cream. . 

Proceed as for Brioche; or the paste may be rolled out by 
hand with flour, about the size of two fingers, rather 
pointed at each end ; egg over when placing on baking 
sheets; make a slight incision in their centres and bake 
without further proving. 

TURNIP BREAD. 
Boil the turnips over a fire in a kettle till they become 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMUL-S: AND MEMORANDA. 215 

soft; take them out, sqyeeze and drain as dry as possible; 
mash them fine and mix with an equal weight of wheat 
flour; make the dough in the usual manner with yeast; 
knead well and form into loaves. 

TURNIPS. 
( See Almond Turnips.) 

TUTTI FRUTTI. 
Use Dutch Macaroon mixture; lay out in ovals ; put on 
top dried cherries, raisins, or currants, etc. 

TWELFTH CAKE. 
Make a wedding cake, or a plainer mixture will do for 
this purpose; trim and ice it neatly as for wedding cake, 
omitting the almond icing; ornament according to fancy 
with a comic figure in the centre, and bon bons, liqueur 
ornaments, etc., round; fasten them with Royal Icing, in- 
troducing a little artistic piping in colored icing between 
the ornaments. 

UNFERMENTED BREAD. 

( See Unleavened Bread.) 

UNION CAKE. 

1 ft flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

10 ozs butler. f oz blanched almonds, cut 
3 ozs sugar. in strips. 

6 eggs, well beaten. 4 ozs dried cherries. 

1 glass brandy. 2 ozs citron. 

i pt cream. 1 oz currants. 

} oz cinnamon. 1 teaspoon soda. 
Bake in a deep buttered tin. 

UNLEAVENED BREAD. 

(See Passover Bread, Shifts Biscuit, Etc.) 

UNVESICULATED BREAD. 
Mix fresh unbolted wheat flour with soft cold water; 
work it well, making the dough very stiflT; form into loaves 
and bake in a quick oven. The dough may be formed into 
rolls or thin crackers; milk or cream may be used in place 
of water, if desired. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



216 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

VANILLA BARS. 

16 lbs flour. 1 oz ammonia. 

8 lbs sugar. J oz extract vanilla. 

2J lbs butter. 1 qt e^gs. 

lifts lard. 2 gills milk. 

Lay out in bars about 1x2} inches; they may be covered 
with chocolate icing, flavored with vanilla. 

VANILLA BISCUIT (1.) 
Make Savoy biscuit mixture (cold method), adding a lit- 
tle essence of Vanilla; lay in rounds the size of a half dol- 
lar, using a biscuit forcer; dust with vanilla sugar. 

V^ANILLA BISCUIT (2.) 
16 lbs flour. 1 oz extract vanilla 

10 lbs sugar. } ft butter. 

2 ozs soda. 5 ozs ammonia. 

1 gallon milk. 

After panning, spread a wet cloth over them to make 
them moist on top. 

VANILLA CAKE. 
1 lb flour. 1 doz eggs. 

1 lb butter. 1 gill cream. 

1 lb sugar. Extract vanilla. 

Mix into a smooth, rather firm batter; bake in a shallow, 
square pan, in a fairly hot oven. 

VANILLA CAKES. 
16 lbs flour. 2 ozs soda. 

7} lbs suKar. 3 pints eggs. 

2i lbs butter. IJ qts water. 

If lbs lard. IJ qts milk. 

Jlbamm nia. Vanilla flavor. 

Turn over on granulated sugar; cut round or square as 
desired. 

VANILLA CRACKERS. 
16 lbs flour. 6 lbs granulated sugar. 

i gallon water. 2J fts butter or lard. 

4 ozs ammonia. Vanilla to flavor. 

Wash them over before baking ; cut with plam round 
cutters, 2i inches in diameter. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 217 

VANILLA FINGERS. 
2 lbs flour. Vanilla flavor. 

2 lbs sugar. Pinch of ammonia. 

Yolks of 2 doz eggs. 
Mask witli pink icing. 

VANILLA JUMBLES. 
Use same mixture as for Vanilla cakes. 

VANILLA STICKS. 
(See Sticks of Vanilla.) 

VENICE CAKE (1.) 
Same mixture as Genoa cake; bake in a plain round 
mould previously buttered ; when done, pipe a design on 
it with Boyal icing, in a light and artistic manner. 

VENICE CAKE (2.) 
( See Savoy Cake.) 

VENICE ROLLS. 
Same as Turin Rolls. 

VESICULATED BREAD. 

Bread rendered spongiform in structure by the action of 
carbonic acid within the dough, and not baked hard and 
dry as in the case of biscuits. It includes ordinary loaf- 
bread, pan loaves, French or Paris loaves, cottage loaves, 
bricks, rolls, buns, and many varieties of fjtncy bread dis- 
tinguished by local names and minor differences of form 
and composition. Vesiculated bread is made in three dif- 
ferent ways : 

First— By the development of carbonic acid within the 
dough through fermentation of the flour. This is the or- 
dinary and principal method of bread-making. 

Second— By mixing the dough with water previously 
aerated with carbonic acid. 

Third — By the disengagement of carbonic acid from 
chemical agents introduced into the dough, such as baking 
powders, consisting generally of carbonate of soda or am- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



218 FORMULJi AND MEMORANDA. 

monia, and citric or tartaric acid, which evolve carbonic 
acid in the presence of water. 

VICTORIA BISCOTTINI. 

6 ozs flour. Spoonful orange flower wa- 

4 ozs sugar. ter. 

2 ozs dissolved butter. Essence of cloves to flavor. 
4 yolks of eggs. Royal icing made from the 
i oz German yeast. white of one egg. 
Mix and add the yeast, dissolved in a teaspoon of warm 

water, and lastly the Roynl icing; with the biscuit forcer 
form into rings of the size of a dollar; when done, mask 
with pink icing. 

VICTORIA BISCUIT (1.) 
Make a Spouge biscuit mixture (hot method) ; bake on 
buttered tins; sprinkle the tops with chopped almonds; 
dust with sugar through a lawn sieve ; bake in a moderate 
oven. 

VICTORIA BISCUIT (2.) 
16 lbs flour. 1 oz soda. 

2 J lbs butter. i oz tartaric acid. 

3 flbs sugar. } oz carraway seed. 
Cut with small round cutters. 

VICTORIA BUNS. 
(See Buns.) 

VICTORIA CAKE. 
1} lbs flour. 2 lbs lemon and orange peel 

1 lb butter. chopped fine with ci- 

11b sugar. tron and almonds. 

1 doz eggs (well beaten.) 1 lb seedless raisins. 

i oz each ginger, cinnamon 1 lb currants, 
and nutmeg. J gill brandy. 

Oil lemon to flavor. 
Mix and bake the same as Fruit cake. 

VICTORIA MACAROONS. 

( See Macaroons.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 219 

VIENNA BREAD (1.) 

6 or S 0Z8 compressed yeast. 9 qts water. 

Mix a strong spouge with patent flour ; regulate the tem- 
perature of the water according to the weather; when the 
sponge is ready, mix into 1 pail new milk ; salt and shorten 
to suit ; make a ^ood stiff dough ; let it rise ; make into the 
shape of Vienna bread, viz. round, abst^ut 12 or 16 inches 
long and about 3 or 4 inches in circumference ; set between 
a cloth to prove; before putting in the oven, glaze with a 
thin batter of corn starch and milk ; bake on the floor of a 
cool oven. 

VIENNA BREAD (2.) 
16 fi>s flour. 7 ozs compressed yeast. 

6 qts milk and water (half 2 ozs salt. 

and half.) 

Set sponge with the same thickness as any ordinary 

bread ; it will be ready in about 3 hours ; mix in the flour 

to make a rather stiff dough ; scale off into proper shape 

and weight ; cut with a sharp knife, deep gashes, crossways. 

VIENNA BREAD (3.) 
16 tt)S very best flour. 7 ozs press-yeast. 

6 qts water and milk (half 2 ozs salt, 
and half.) 

Empty the flour into the middle of a bread-trough, leav- 
ing the ridge sloping down to the ends; mix the milk and 
water and let it stand until it acquires the temperature of 
the room ; pour it into one end of the trough and intimately 
mix with the naked hands and arms, with a small amount 
of flour, making a thin emulsion ; add to this the press- 
yeast, after flnely crumbling it in the hands, and the salt; 
mix thoroughly; cover and leave undisturbed for three- 
quarters of an hour; then thoroughly incorporate the bal- 
ance of the flour or sufficient to give the regular texture to 
the dough, which will be found never to deviate materially 
from the above proportions : cover the dough and let stand 
for 2i hours, at the end of which time it will present a 
smooth, tenacious, puflfed. homogeneous mass of slightly 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



220 FOKMUL^ AND MEMORANDA. 

yellowish color, which, when submitted to the pressure of 
the hand, yields to indentation without rupture, and, on 
withdrawing the hand recovers, in a ^hort time, but not 
instantly, its original outline and smooth surface. 

The loaves should be of a size to require not more than 
from 15 to 20 minutes to bake completely; that is, to thor- 
oughly cook the interior by the time the outside has 
assumed a delicate, thin; reddish, or cinnamon-brown crust, 
and become palatable in every part. 

To make Vienna Bread, it is necessary to use either 
pastry, or good, fresh, middling flour, and press-yeast The 
yeast should be of recent preparation and sweet, so that it 
will yield only alcohol and carbonic acid as products of fer- 
mentation. 

The real Vienna bread oven is of peculiar construction. 
The one at the late Cincinnati Miller's Exhibition (1880) 
was a structure, which contained 53,000 bricks, and was in 
the form of a cube seventeen feet square. The oven proper 
was in the heart of this mass of bricks, and resembled in 
shape one-half of a heart cut lengthwise, flat side down, 
flfteen feet in depth, thirteen feet in the widest part, the 
greatest vertical height being ten inches. " The receptable 
sloped from the door until it attained an elevation of twenty- 
seven inches above the level at the rear end. The steam 
arising from the bread, and from water thrown into it from 
a hose after the flre was drawn and the oven thoroughly 
washed out, worked up and down in waves as it passed to 
the rear escape pipe, tending always to draw the dough up- 
ward, making the bread high and light, and producing at 
the same time a thin, delicate brown crust, exceedingly 
delicious. 

Vienna Bread can also be properly baked in an ordinary 
oven, if provided with the Vienna oven mouth, and Steam 
Damper Box, the latter being a specialty of Messrs. Worrall 
& Co., New York. 

VIENNA BRIOCHE. 
Same as Brioche (2), using milk in place of water in 
kneading the dough. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 221 

VIENNA BUTTER ROLLS. 

Vienna Roll Dough. 

Divide the dough into pieces the size of an egg; roll out 

each under the hands to the length of about 4 inches, like 

a linger; lay them on a greased baking tin; wash over 

with milk. 

VIENNA BUTTER 8TRIZL. 
Same as Vienna Butter Rolls. 

VIENNA CRESCENTS OR KIPFEL. 
Vienna Roll Dough. 
Divide the dough into small pieces ; roll with a rolling 
pin i inch thick ; cut into triangles about 3 inches long^ 
and roll these three-cornered pieces out very thin, still 
maintaining their shape; roll these thin triangles up tight, 
beginning at the broad side, until within half an Inch of 
the point, which wet with water and milk, and complete 
the rolling; lay them on greased baking pans, in the form 
of a crescent or half moon ; wash over with milk ; bake in 
a hot oven. 

VIENNA FANCY CAKES. 
Cakes made from Vienna bread, or Vienna roll doughy 
milk being used in place of water in mixing the dough ; 
flavored with seeds, essences, etc., and sweetened with 
sugar; eggs may also be added with discretion. 

VIENNA FINGERS. 
Use Vienna roll dough and lay out in the shape of fingers. 

VIENNA IMPERIAL ROLLS. 
(See Vienna Kaiser-Semmel.) 

VIENNA KAISER-SEMMEL. 
Vienna Roll Dough. 
They are made into smooth, irregularly rounded, small 
loops or rolls of uniform weight. When baked, they pre- 
sent a rich, reddish-brown crust, and a delicately shaded, 
yellowish, almost white interior ; bake in a regular Vienna 
oven, or glaze with water and milk before baking. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



^22 POBMUIi^ AND MEMORANDA. 

VIENNA KIPFEL. 
(See Vienna Crescents.) 

VIENNA ROLLS. 
16 ftg flour. 7 ozs press-yeast. 

6 qts water and milk (or 2 ozs salt. 

milk alone.) 4 lbs butter. 

Proceed as for Vienna bread ; roll out } inch thick ; cut 
with a large round cutter; fold one half over the other by 
doubling it ; lay them on greased baking sheets without 
touching; wash over with milk to glaze; bake in a hot 
-oven. 

VIENNA RYE BREAD. 
Same as Vienna bread, using i best rye flour. 

VIENNA 8ALZ-KIPFEL. 
Proceed as for Vienna Crescents ; when the Kipfels are 
made on the tin, and carefully washed over, cover rather 
plentifully with carraway seeds and coarse table salt in the 
proportion of two to one ; bake in a hot oven. These rolls 
may be further varied by sprinkling them, after washing, 
-with pearl-sago, or poppy-seed (German mohn-seed). 

VIENNA TARTS. 

1 tt> flour. 18 eggs, well beaten. 

1 lb butter. Lemon zest and cinnamon 

1 tt> sugan to flavor. 

Lay out on paper three round layers ; when done, put 
marmalade on one piece; place on this a second layer, 
spreading it with cranberry jelly ; cover with the third 
layer; ice with chocolate icing, and decorate with preserved 
fruit. 

VIENNA TWIST ROLLS. 
Vienna Roll Dough. 

Break off pieces the size of a small egg; divide each 
piece into two unequal pieces; the largest piece form with 
the hands into a plain roll tapering at each end ; lay them 
thus formed on a greased baking tin, without touching; 
: flatten each a little and wash over with milk ; divide the 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULiE AND MKMORANDA. 223 

remaining pieces each into three ; roll the pieces out under 
the hand into strips a little longer than the roll already 
made, and braid them; lay each braid as soon as formed on 
top of the other plain half; when all are made, wash over 
^with milk ; bake in a hot oven. 

WAFERETTE8. 
Certain kinds of Wafers, made as thin as possible, such 
:as Graham waferettes, Soda waferettes, etc. 

WAFER GINGERBREAD. 

( See Gingerbread.) 

WAFER JUMBLES. 

1 tt> sugar. 1 ft flour. 

1 ft butter. i doz eggs. 

Roll out thin ; when baked sift powdered sugar over them. 

WAFER KISSES. 

(See Kisses.) 

WAFERS. 
See under appropriate headings, such as : 
Brandy. Orange. Spanish. 

French. Pearl. Sweet. 

Graham. Rice. Wheat. 

Italian. Scotch. Etc., Etc. 

WAFERS. 

J ft flour. Three yolks of eggs. 

} ft sifted sugar. A tablespoon orange flower 

1} ozs butter, smoothly water. 

melted. A little new milk. 

Mix in a basin with a wooden spoon to the consistency of 
-cream. Heat the wafer irons, evenly; grease the impres- 
sions with a piece of mutton suet ; pour a tablespoon ful of 
the batter on one side of the impression; close the irons 
quickly ; pass them each side over the charcoal, if required ; 
-scrape oft* the superfluous batter round the edges with a 
knife; open the irons and roll the wafers on a round wooden 
stick; put in tin cannisters, in a very dry place. The first 
^wo or three wafers will, no doubt, be burnt and spoiled, 
imtil the heat of the irons is regulated. 
16 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



224 FORMULiE AND MEMORANDA. 

WAFERS— SWEET. 

1 ft) flour. 1 lb sugar. 

2 ozs melted butter. 1 gill sweet milk. 
i doz eggs. A grated nutmeg. 

Beat yolks and whites separately and very stifl"; rub the 
sugar and butter together ; work in flrst the yolks, then the 
milk, and afterwards the flour and whites; bake in well 
buttered wafer or waflSe irons, very quickly, browning as 
little as possible ; roll them while hot upon a smooth, round 
stick, not longer than the little finger, slipping it out 
carefully when the cakes take the right shape. 

WAFFLES. 

See under appropriate headings, such as: 
Flemish. Rice. Wheat. 

French. Rye. Etc., Etc 

German. Soft. 

WAFFLES. 

6 lbs flour. i lb white sugar. 

2 lbs butter or lard. 2 ozs salt. 

2 doz eggs. Ess. lemon to flavor. 

2 ozs cinnamon. 

Bake in greased waffle moulds over a furnace or on top of 
a stove; turn over and cut in a three-cornered shape; sugar 
on the top when a little cold. 

WAFFLES-FRENCH. 
Press } ft) butter in a cloth until soft, beat with a large 
fork to a cream ; beat the yolks of 6 eggs to a thick cream, 
and then sift in (stirring all the time) i Vb flour; add i pt 
rich sweet milk, and the beaten butter; beat all well to- 
gether; beat the whites of the eggs till stiflT and add to the 
other ingredients; beat all well together and bake at once 
in well buttered waffle irons; butter each waffle when 
baked; sprinkle it with powdered white sugar and cinnar 
mon mixed ; pile on hot plates aud serve. 

WAFFLES-GERMAN. 
See German Waffles.) 



Digitized by (otOOQIC 



FORMULAE AND MEMORANDA. 225 

WALNUT CAKE. 
1 J lbs flour. 3 gills sweet milk. 

1 !b sujrar. i oz baking powder. 

j !b butter. 1 pint walnut kernels. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 
Bake in small sized pan, like Almond Sponge cake. 

WALNUT CRACKERS (1.) 
Use same dough as for Florals, only cut in walnut blocks ; 
press each with the thumb in the centre before running 
them from the block, to prevent them from rising on the 
tin, or the bottom will not be level, and they cannot be 
stuck together well ; cut the kernels from the same dough, 
but bake them pale; stick them on the half shell ; but the 
kernels are best piped on with yellow colored icing. 

WALNUT CRACKERS (2.) 
16 lbs flour. 6 J flbs sugar. 

4fc8 butter. 3 doz e^'jc'^. 

Cut with an English walnut cutter ; when baked, dampen 
the bottoms and stick two together; dampen with water or 
the white of eggs beaten up with a little sugar in. 

WALNUT JUMBLES. 

i % walnut kernels. i lb sujrar, flavored with va- 

Whites of 4 eggs. nilla. 

J^ft almonds. 

Mix together; beat separately 8 yolks and 6 whites, add- 
ing Jib flour and Jib starch ; mix the whole together and 
lay out. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

lib flour. 2 ozs washed and picked 

fib sugar. currants. 

i lb butter. 1 oz chopped citron. 

i doz eggs. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

I pt milk. Nutmeg and cinnamon to 

} lb stoned raisins. flavor. 

Bake in shallow square cake pan; when cold, mask with 
icing. 

WASHINGTON BISCUIT. 

i fi) sifted sugar. 2 ozs Oswego prepared corn. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



226 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

5 eggs. 2 ozs highly dried and finely 
2 ozs ground almonds. sifted flour. 

i glass rum. 

Beat until very light sugar, yolks, ground almonds and 
rum ; add the corn and stir in the whites, beat stiff; lastly 
mix in the flour ; flll the mixture into small round biscuit 
tins, buttered ; bake in a moderate oven ; when done, spread 
each with apricot jam, and dip in glace icing, flavored with 
cura^oa. 

WASHINGTON BUNS. 

(See Buns.) 

WATER BISCUIT (1.) 
16 fi»s flour. Jib lard. ^ 

2i qts water. 2} ozs salt. 

Roll thin ; cut with large sized milk cutters. 

WATER BISCUIT (2.) 
(See Shifts Bread.) 

WATER CAKES-CINNAMON. 
(See Cinnamon Water Cakes.) 

WATER CAKES— GINGER. 
(See Ginger Water Cakes.) 

WATER CAKES— LEMON. 
(See Lemon Water Cakes.) 

WATER CAKES— ORANG:e. 
( See Orange Water Cakes.) 

WATER CAKES WITH SEED. 
1 fc flour. A few carraway seed. 

6 ozs sugar. 

Form into a paste with cream ; roll very thin ; dock and 
cut round with a medium sized cutter; bake on a clean 
baking sheet, dusted with flour. 

WATER CRACKERS. 
Use Water biscuit mixture ; cut with regular cutters. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORAKDA. 227 

WATER CRACKLINGS. 
16 ft)S flour. J oz saleratus. 

2S>s butter. | oz tartaric acid. 

JRoIl very thin ; cut with long coflfee cutters. 

WATER GEMS. 
( See Graham Water Gems.) 

WEBSTER CAKE. 
H lbs flour. i lb seedless raisins* 

i fi> butter. I pt miilc. 

fib sugar. Pinch ammonia. 

2 eggs. Almond and vanilla flavor 
Bake in a round fluted cake-mould. 

WEDDING CAKE, (I.) 
S lbs flour. 1 J lbs orange, lemon and cit- 

2| lbs butter. ron peel. 

3 lbs best moist sugar. 1} ozs mixed spices. 
. lib ground almonds. Zest of 3 lemons. 

71b^ currants. 30 eggs. 

i pt brandy. 

Cream butter; add sugar and stir well in a moderately 
warm place; add eggs gradually ; fruit and almonds ; lastly 
flour and brandy. Paper a large wedding cake hoop in the 
following manner : — twist a double paper tight across the 
bottom of the hoop, in the same manner that a paper is 
often twisted across the top of a jam pot in the kitchen for 
the convenience of the moment ; then put several bands of 
paper around the interior of the hoop, quite even ; put this 
on a baking sheet likewise covered with several sheets of 
baking paper; when this is arranged, put the cake mixture 
In, smoothing the toij off very carefully with a knife. 

WEDDING CAKE (2.) 

4 fcs flour. 20 eggs. 

2fi>s currants. 4 ozs sweet almonds. 

2 lbs butter. 1 oz allspice and cinnamon. 

2 lbs sweetmeats. 2 gills cognac. 

2 fi>s sugar. 

Bake in a tin hoop, having several sheets of clean writing 
paper underneath it, and at least eight or nine sheets above. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



228 FORMULJE AND MEMORANDA. 

The paper which is in contact with the cake must be thickly 
buttered. Bake in a very hot even. Mask with icing and 
decorate according to fancy. 

WEDDING CAKE (3.) 
5 lbs butter. 9 lbs currants, thoroughly 

5 fbs sugar. soaked in a quart of 

5 lbs ground almonds. brandy. 
3 lbs orange peel. 6 lbs flour. 

3 lbs lemon peel. 2 qts eggs, well beaten* 

6 lbs citron. 

WEDDING CAKE (4.) 

4 lbs butter. 1 oz mace. 

4 lbs light brown sugar. 1 oz nutmeg. 

6 lbs flour. 1 oz cinnamon* 

40 eggs. 1 oz cloves. 

8 lbs currants. 1 qt molasses. 

6 lbs raisins. 1 qt brandy. 
3 lbs citron. 

WELLINGTON GINGERBREAD* 
(See Gingerbread.) 

WENTWORTH CRACKERS* 
Same as Oswego Fingers. 

WHEATEN BREAD. 
16 lbs flour. 1 large tabiespoonful solid 

IJ to li pts warm milk and brewer^s yeast, or about 

water. 1 oz fresh German yeast 

Mould into any shape and bake. 

WHEAT DROP CAKES. 
1 pt cream. Salt. 

6 eggs, well beaten. Flour to make a thin batter. 

Bake in little cups. 

WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Same as Wheat waffles, and baked on a hot griddle. Also 
made as Soda biscuit, adding milk to make a soft batter. 

WHEAT WAFERS, (1.) 

2ozs butter. 6 eggs, well beaten. 

1 pt milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Flour to make a thin batter. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 229 



Dissolve the butter in the milk ; heat the wafer irons ard 
bake immediately; do not burn them ; roll them while hot; 
or serve flat, if desired. 

WHEAT WAFERS, (2.) 

3 eggs, well beaten. Mace and cinnamon to 

i lb sugar. flavor. 

J pt cream. Salt to taste. 

2ozs citron chopped fine. 

Flour to make a moderately stiflf batter; flavor with ex- 
tract rose and brandy if desired. 

WHEAT-WAFFLES, (1.) 

1 oz butter. 1 qt flour. 

1 pt milk. Salt 

3 eggs, (well beaten.) 

Dissolve butter in milk ; stir in the flour, salt and eggs; 
stir five minutes and bake in waffle irons; the irons should 
be well heated on both sides, and buttered before the batter 
is put into them. 

WHEAT-WAFFLES, (2.) 
i doz eggs. 6 tablespoons flour. 

Stir well and add cream to make a batter almost as thin 
as the cream ; add salt and a piece of soda, etc., size of a pea. 

WHITE BREAD. 

(See Paris Bread—White.) 

(See London White Bread.) 

(See Meqe Mourie's White Bread.) 

WHITE CAKE. 
(See Lady Cake.) 

WHITE COCOANUT CAKES. 
(SeeCocoANUT Cakes.) 

WHITE LILY CAKE. 

} ft sugar. 1 gill sweet milk. 

Whites of 6 eggs. J lb butter. 

fib flour. Pinch ammonia. 

WHITE MACAROONS. 
(See Macaroons.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



230 FORMUIi-E AND MEMORANDA. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

2 tbs flour. Whites of 1 2 eggs. 

1 J ft)S sugar. 3 ozs baking powder. 

1 pt milk. 

Bake in jelly cake tins ; arrange in three layers of the same 
size ; on the bottom spread white icing and grated cocoa- 
nut; on the second spread the same mixture ; on the top, 
spread meringue batter and grated cocoanut; set in the 
oven to dry. 

WHITE ROSEBUD. 
Divide a sheet of Lady cake, 1 inch thick, 24x18 inches 
wide, into five strips, 3 inches wide ; mask the tops with 
currant jelly, and over this sprinkle grated cocoanut ; with 
Royal icing colored pink and flavored with rose, pipe three 
layers the whole length of the strips, then two and lastly 
one, bringing them to a point; draw a palette knife along 
each strip to make it smooth ; garnish each strip with 
almonds, cut lengthways, sprinkled with grated cocoanut. 

WHITE SUGAR JUMBLES. 
16 lbs soft white wheat flour. 3 qts sour milk. 

7 fi)S granulated sugar. Oil lemon to flavor. 
4 lbs butter and lard. 2 ozs ammonia. 

1 pt eggs. 1 oz soda. 

WIGG CAKES. 
f lb flour. i pt warm milk. 

2 or 3 spoonsfuls yeast. 

Afterwards work in 4 ozs each of sugar and butter ; make 
into cakes or wiggs with as little flour as possible; add a 
few carraway seeds ; bake quickly. 

WINE BISCUIT, (1.) 

8 ozs flour. 1 spoonful orange-sugar. 
2 ozs sugar. 1 gill Malaga wine. 

2 ozs butter. Salt to taste. 

Cut in long squares, lx2i inches. 

YINE BISCUIT, (2.) 
16 lbs flour. 2 qts water. 

4 lbs butter. 1 oz ammonia. 



' Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 231' 

8 lbs sugar. 1 oz soda. 

1 qt wine. 1 oz cream tartar. 
Boll out round, i inch thick. 

WINE BISCUIT, (3.) 
16 lbs flour. 1 oz soda. 

2 lbs butter. i oz tartaric acid. 
2i fi>s sugar. 2 qts water. 

Cut round the size of milk biscuit, but a iittle thicker. 

WINE CAKE. 
1 lb flour. 1 gill wine. 

i lb butter. 6 eggs, 

fib sugar. A pinch of soda. 

Bake in a shallow square cake pan ; ice with transparent 
icing. 

WINE CAKE— SPONGE. 
(See Sponge Cake.) 

WINCHESTER CAKE. 

1 ft) flour. 10 ozs butter. 

1ft) sugar. Whites of 12 ergs. 

Vanilla flavor. 

Lay out round, one inch thick ; put peach marmalade on 
top and ornament with kiss batter ; sift over the top fine 
sugar, and brown in a cool oven. 

WINAN'S VICTORIA CAKE. 
(See Victoria Cake.) 

YEAST CAKE (1). 

1§ lbs flour. li tablespoons yeast. 

i lb butter. 3 eggs. 

I pt milk. } lb currants. 

i ft) moist sugar. 2 ozs candied peel. 

Put the milk and butter in a saucepan and shake over the 
fire till melted ; stir in it the flour, yeast and eggs, and form 
into a smooth dough ; let it stand in a warm place, covered 
with a cloth to rise ; add the currants, peel and sugar. 

YEAST CAKE (2).— LUNCHEON CAKE. 

1} lbs flour. 6 ozs currants. 

J lb butter. Jib mixed peel, cut flne. 

i ft) s!ij?ar. Lemon zest. 

1 oz German yeast. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



232 FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 

Proceed as for Buns ; put the mixture in a plain, round 
buttered cake tin. 

Seed Cake may be made as above, omitting the fruit, and 
adding a few carraway seeds. 

YEAST CRACKERS. 
(See Stock Yeast Crackers.) 

YEAST DOUGHNUTS. 
( See Doughnuts (1). 

YELLOW COCOANUT CAKES. 
(See Cocoanut Cakes.) 

YORK BISCUIT. 

16 tbs flour. 2 ozs ammonia. 

2J lbs butter. 2 qts millt. 

2 tbs sugar. 
Cut with a small square cutter, with a rose in it. 

YORK DROPS. 

1 lb almonds, blanched and Whites of 1 doz eggs, 
pounded. 2 lbs loaf sugar. 

Proceed as for macaroons, adding the eggs, one at a time, 
and the sugar, gradually, during the process of pounding . 
when well mixed, drop it on paper in drops about the size 
of a pea; put them on iron or tin plates; bake in a warm 
oven ; when cold, take them oflT the paper. 

YORKSHIRE CAKES. 
Put } lb butter into 2J fi>s flour ; make a sort of well in the 
centre of the flour; put into the well 3 eggs, IJ ozs German 
yeast sponge (see Buns), a very little pounded sugar, and 
a pinch of salt; form this into a smooth dough; mould 
about the size of large cricket balls; place them in 
Yorkshire cake rims; prove and bake; when dry, split 
them in halves ; butter them oyer ; cut them across ; serve 
up for breakfast ; or when the cakes are cold, they can be 
toasted. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 233 

YORKSHIRE CREAM CAKES. 
Proceed as for Yorkshire cakes; after moulding and 
placing in the tins, fill the centres with pastry cream, 
flavored as desired. 

YORKSHIRE MUFFINS (1). 

4 qts sifted flour. Milk to form a rather soft 

J pt yeast. dough. 

1 oz fine salt. 

Small portions of the dough are put into holes previously 
made in a layer of flour about 2 inches thick, placed on a 
board ; the whole is covered up in a blanket, and placed in 
a warm situation to rise; when this is eflfected they will 
present a semi-globular form. 

YORKSHIRE MUFFINS (2). 
Tibs sifted flour. 2 qts water. 

1 oz fine salt. i pt yeast. 

Beat all together for 20 minutes, and set aside to rise. 

YORKSHIRE RARKIN. 
Cakes made of oatmeal, molasses^ butter and a little 
lemon peel and ginger; roll out flat and bake. 

YULE CAKE. 
1ft) flour. 2 ozs citron, chopped fine. 

J lb sugar. 1 gill brandy. 

10 ozs butter. Nutmeg and cloves to fia 

J ft) currants. vor. 

1 doz eggs. Pinch ammonia. 

Bake in paper lined tin ; ornament according to fancy. 

ZEPHERS. 
Proceed as for Meringues, as far as mixing the sugar and 
the whites of the eggs, when also mix with both a few drops 
of prepared cochineal ; put the mixture into the biscuit bag ; 
lay out on paper in different shapes; dentillated, convolvu- 
lated, etc. 

ZEPHERS— ROSE PINK. 
8 ozs sifted sugar. Whites of 4 eggs. 

8 ozs shred filberts, or, A few drops essence of rose, 
cleaned walnut kernels. and prepared cochineal. 

Proceed as for Zephers with Pistachios. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



234 



FORMULA AND MEMORANDA. 



ZEPHER SOUFFLES. 

8 OZ8 finely sifted sugar. A few drops essence pepper- 

8 ozs finely shred almonds. mint. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

Whisk eggs and sugar over a slow fire to a substantial 
white frothy icing; add almonds and essence; lay upon 
white paper on baking sheets in lumps the size of a large 
walnut, li inches apart. 

ZEPHHERS WITH PISTACHIOS. 

8 ozs sifted sugar. Whites of 4 eggs. 

A few drops of essence va- 8 ozs finely shred pistach- 
nilla, or orange flower ios. 

water. 
Whisk the whites stiff and add to the other ingredients; 
lay out as for Zepher Souffles ; dredge with sugar before put- 
ting in the oven. 

ZEPHYRINAS. 

1 lb flour. Salt to taste. 

2 ozs butter. Cold water to make a stiff 
1 oz sugar. dough. 

Roll as thin as possible ; cut into round cakes. 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



APPENDIX. 



ALMOND GAUFFRES. 
(See Gauffres— Almond (F. & M.*) 

ALMOND SOUFFLES. 
( See Souffles— Almond (F. & M.) 

AMERICAN MACAROONS. 
Same as Almond Macaroons (2.) (F. & M.) 

ANGELAS FOOD. 
(See Emperor's Food (F. <fc M.) 

BANANA BREAD. 
(See Plaintain Bread (F. & M.) 

BATTER BREAD. 
(See Virginia Batter Bread.) 

BARLEY BREAD. 

16 tt>s barley meal, 8 fi>s wheat flour. 

8 lbs rye flour. 

Make a sponge with wheat flour as for Rye Bread (1) (F.& 
M.); keep the dough rather tight; bake in a hot oven. 

BEANS-CRACKERS. 
Use Butter Cracker mixture; cut with bean cutters. 

BEER CAKES. 

(SeeEcHAUDES (F. &M.) 

BLOOD BREAD. 
Made as ordinary wheat bread, using about 20 per cent, 
of uncoagulated blood from raw flesh, preferably beef. It is 
nutritious and antiscorbutic. 

*) F. & M. refers to Formulae and Memoranda, preceeding this appendix. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



236 APPENDIX. 



CACHE— CACHETS 

i % sweet almonds. i K> sugar 

i oz bitter almonds. 

Pound almonds in mortar with a little orange-flower wa- 
ter ; mix with the sugar; lay a sheet of clean white paper 
on the tin, white wafer paper on that, and small spoonfuls 
of the mixture on top ; in the centre of each little cake, 
place a preserved cherry, damson or plum; shake finely 
pulverized sugar over the whole ; bake in a moderate oven ; 
when cool, cut the paper closely around them. 

COCOA TAFFY. 

16 lbs flour. 1 J lbs ground cocoanut. 

3 qts molasses. 6 ozs soda. 

3i lbs sugar. 3J ozs ginger. 

3 lbs butter and lard. i oz allspice. 

1 pt water. J oz cinnamon. 
Cut with finger cutters. 

CONTINENTAL CRACKERS. 
Use Butter cracker mixture; cut with continental cutters. 

CACKNUT8. 

1 ft> flour. i doz eggs, well beaten. 

f lb sugar. Cafraway seed to flavor. 

i lb melted butter. 

Make a paste with a wine-glass full of raisin wine and a 
little water; roll as thin as paper; cut into fancy shapes; 
wash with the white of an egg, and dust with sugar before 
baking. 

DOTS. 
Made of any plain cracker mixture; cut with special 
cutters. 

HONEY SPONGE CAKE. 

Jib honey. 6 eggs. 

}tt> flour. 

Beat the yolks and honey together ; beat the whites to a 
froth; mix all together, stiring as little as possible; flavor 
with lemon juice. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



APPENDIX. 237 



ICE CREAM CAKES. 
1 lb powdered sugar. 1 % sifted flour. 

1 ft) fresh butter. J pt Madeira wine. 
16 e^gs, well beaten. Bose water to flavor. 

2 pts cream. 

Cream butter and sugar; stir in the other ingredients 
gradually and alternately; when thoroughly mixed, stir 
the batter very hard with a silver or clean wooden spaddle ; 
bake in well buttered small deep pans, about two-thirds 
full ; when of a delicate brown, remove from the pans and 
let them cool in an inverted position on a sieve. When 
quite cold make an incision in the side of each cake; 
they should be hollow in the middle if properly baked p 
fill up the cavity with any kind of ice cream desired, put it 
carefully in with a salt spoon or point of a silver knife, and 
close the opening immediately. Set them on a large, flat 
dish, and keep on ice till wanted for the table. The tops of 
the cakes should be glazed with the whites of eggs beaten* 
up with rose water. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

3 fi)8 flour. Whites of 16 eggs, beaten to* 
2 !bs sugar. a stiff froth. 

1 lb butter. 

Cream butter and sugar ; mix with the other ingredients; 
bake in layers as for jelly cake. Spread between the layers 
a composition made of 1 lb sugar melted and boiling hot, 
mixed with the whites of 4 eggs, well beaten, and J lb rais- 
ins chopped up very fine. The top may be finished with 
separate layers of chopped raisins, melted sugar and egg 
froth; in which case, set in a cool oven to harden, but not 
bake. 

OLMSKIRK GINGERBREAD. 
Small ginger snaps, put up in rolls of one dozen each. 

SNOW FLAKE CAKE. 
(See Emperor's Food (F. & M.) 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



i238 APPENDIX. 

VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD. 

1 pt sweet milk. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 oz butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 

6 ozs white corn meal. 

Heat the milk until the butter melts in it, and stir in the 
meal ; add the other ingredients. Do not get the batter too 
thick; it should be of the consistency of custard. Bake on 
a greased baking pan in a quick oven. 

ZWIEBACK. 

1 qt eggs. 5 ozs salt 

li lbs sugars Flour to make a smooth 

1 lb lard. dough. 

Set a sponge as for ordinary bread ; let it get very ripe 
before breaking it up ; to each 10 quarts add the other in- 
gredients ; beat well with the hands, making a nice smooth 
dough ; mould like a Vienna loaf, but longer and wider, 
and without any cuts on the back ; set to rise in pans, so 
that the loaves will not touch ; prove well and wash with 
eggs and water, or milk ; bake in a medium oven. When 
done, let the loaf stand until the next day ; then cut into 
thin slices as ordinary toast, but of oblong shape ; lay the 
slices flat on a clean pan ; put them into the oven, and color 
fik nice brown ; turn over and brown on the other side. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 






APPENDIX II. 



Cracker and Soft Cake Mixtures 

FOR MACHINE WORK. 



Although the recipes for most of the following crackers 
and cakes are found in proper order in the body of this 
work, yet for the convenience of practical workmen (sev- 
eral of whom liave suggested the idea) we have reproduced 
them below, with the proportions calculated on the basis 
-of a barrel of flour. We must, however, caution the 
learner that it is always best, when any doubt exists, to 
experiment in smaller quantities, as given under the For- 
mula AND Memoranda, to which we refer for fuller in- 
structions. 

ABERNETHY BISCUIT. 

196 lbs flour. IJ lbs soda 

17 J lbs butter. 1 lb muriatic acid. 

28 lbs sugar. 6} gals sour milk. 
2 lbs carra way- seed. 

ABERNETHY BISCUIT— FINE. 

196 lbs flour. 10 ozs ammonia. 

25 IbH lard or butter. 5J doz eggs. 

25 lbs sugar. 6 gals sour milk. 

2i lbs carraway seed. If lbs tartaric acid. 

28 ozs soda. 
If no eggs are used, 2^ fcs ammonia. 

AFRICANS. 

Same as Shrewsbury mixture, (see below,) but in 
flavoring use 2J ozs vanilla and 2 ozs aniseed to 1 bbl flour- 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



2-10 BARREL. MIXTURES. 

ALBERTS. 

196 lbs soft winter flour. 9 ozs tartaric acid. 

20 lbs sugar i A and J powd. 18 ozs soda. 

15 lbs butter. 6 gals water. 

10 lbs lard. 1 lb salt. 

ALBERTS-BROWN. 

196 lbs grahana flour. IJ lbs soda. 

30 lbs hiitter. 18 ozs annmonia. 

15 lbs brown sugar. 36 qts sour milk. 

ALEXANDRA FINGERS AND DROPS. 

196 lb? flour. 1 lb tartaric acid. 

12 gals syrup. IJ lbs soda. 

94 lbs brown sugar. 2 lbs ginger. 

32 lbs lyrd or butter. 1 lb oil lemon. 
1 gal water. 

ALEXANDRA NUTS. 
Use same mixture as for Alexaudra Fingers, flavoring 
with ginger, allspice and lemon. 

ALMOND DROPS, FINGERS, JUMBLES, ETC 

196 lbs flour. 6 gals milk. 

96 lbs powdered sugar. IJ lbs ammonia. 

48 lbs butter and lard. } lb soda. 

3 gals eggs. i lb oil bitter almonds. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

196 lbs almond paste. 60 qls whites of eggs. 

96 lbs rice flour. 420 Bbs sugar. 

36 lbs wheat flour. 

ALPHABET CRACKERS. 

196 lbs flour. 6 gallons sour milk. 

24 lbs sugar. IJ lbs soda. 

18 lbs butter and lard. 6 ozs tartaric acid. 

ANIMALS (1). 

196 lbs flour. 23 fes corn starch. 

11 lbs ground rice. 23 lbs butter. 

11 lbs lard. 40 lbs pulv. sugar. 

28 ozs soda. 17 ozs ereatn of tartar. 

90 eggs. 6i gals sweet milk. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BARREL MIXTURES. 



241 



196 lbs flour. 
32 lbs pulv. sugar. 
5 qts egsfs. 
1 lb cream of tartar. 



ANIMALS (2). 

66 lbs corn starch. 
n Ihs lard. 

2 lbs soda. 

8 gals sweet milk. 



ARGYLES. 

196 lbs flour. 
48 lbs sugar. 
36 lbs lard and butter. 
6 gals milk. 



18 ozs corn starch. 
6 ozs cream tartar. 

1 i ozs soda. 

2 lbs salt. 



ARROWROOT CRACKERS. 



196 lbs flour. 
25 lbs powdered sugar. 
21 lbs butter. 
42 lbs arrrowroot. 



J lb soda. 
3 ozs ammonia. 
7 ozs acid. 
35 qts sweet milk. 



ARROWROOT JUMBLES. 



196 &s flour. 
65 lbs sugar. 
15 ft)S butter. 
15 lbs lard. 



196 lbs flour. 
12 lbs butter, 
9 lbs sugar. 



2 lbs ammonia. 
8 ozs soda. 
20 lbs arrowroot. 
7 gals sour milk. 



BALMORALS. 



60 doz eggs. 
6 pints water. 
6 ozs soda. 



BATH CRACKERS. 



196 fcs flour. 
84 lbs granulated sugar. 
42 lbs butter or lard. 



6 gals water. 
IJ lbs ammonia. 



BERMUDA CRACKERS. 



196 lbs flour. 
18 lbs sugar. 
7 lbs lard. 
14 lbs butter. 



196 lbs flour. 
24 lbs butter. 
30 lbs sugar. 



6 gals sour milk 
14 ozs soda. 
9 ozs muriatic acid. 



BORDER BISCUIT. 



6 gals water. 
IJ lbs ammonia. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



242 barre:, mixtures. 



BORDER BUTTER BISCUIT. 

196 lbs flour. 6 qts sour milk. 

36 lbs lard. 1} ft>s ammonia. 

36 ft>s sugar. f lb cream of tartar. 

BRANDY SNAPS. 

196 fi)S flour. 7i gals molasses. 

60 lbs brown sugar. 4^ ft>s cloves and mace. 

72 fcs butter. 

BRIGHTON BISCUIT. 

196 fi)S flour. ^ gals water. 

96 lbs sugar. 2^ ft>s ammonia. 

24 lbs butter. Oil lemon to flavor. 

BRUNSWICKS. 

196 lbs flour. 4 fi»s ammonia. 

90 lbs sugar. 8 gals sour milk. 

16 lbs lard. 
Work top with eggs and milk ; coat with currants. 

BUTTER CUP BARS. 
Same mixture as for Butter Scotch, using ginger to flavor; 
cut with large bar cutters. 

BUTTER CRACKERS. 

196 lbs flour. 6 ozs ammonia. 

24 lbs lard. 6 gals water. 

2i lbs salt. 

BUTTER SCOTCH DROPS, ETC. 

196 fi>s flour. 6 gals N. O. molasses. 

124 lbs A sugar. 1 lb soda. 

65 fcs butter. 3 J ozs oil lemon. 

6 gals eggs. 3 lbs cinnamon. 

CALIFORNIA CRACKERS AND DROPS. 

196 lbs flour. 6 gals sour milk. 

12 lbs lard. IJ ozs saleratus. 

6 tbs butter. 6 ozs tartaric acid. 

28 lbs sugar. IJ lbs carraway seed. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BARREL. MIXTURES. 243 

OAPTAIN^S BISCUIT— PILOT BREAD. 

196 %9 flour. 6 ozs tartaric acid. 

24 lbs butter. 6 gals water. 

6 ozs saleratus. 



CARRAWAY JUMBLES. 

196 lbs flour. 16 doz eggs. 

84 lbs sugar. 1^ lbs amtuonia. 

48 lbs butter or lard. 2i fcs carraway seed. 

CHANTILLY BISCUIT. 

196 »>s flour. 24 doz eggs. 

48 fi>s butter. 3 gals milk. 

96 flE)S sugar. Almoud flavor. 

CHELTENHAM CRACKERS. 

196 lbs flour. 6 gals milk. 

6 lbs sugar. Salt to taste. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. 

196 lbs flour. 9} gals sour milk. 

112 Vos B sugar. 11 lbs chocolate. 

11 lbs butter. 11 ozs soda. 

13 lbs lard. 17 ozs ammonia. 

2 qts eggs. If ozs muriatic acid. 

CINNAMON FINGERS, JUMBLES, DROPS, ETC. 

196 lbs flour. 24 ozs ammouia. 

72 lb8 ^r nulated sugar. 24 ozs soda. 

36 lbs butter and lard. 3 lbs cinnamon. 

3 jra Is molasses. 3 lbs ginger. 

IJ gals eggH. IJ lbs mixed spices. 

6 gals milk and water. Oil lemon q. s. 



COCOANUT DROP CAKE. 

196 lbs flour. 48 lbs butter and lard. 

90 fi>s sugar. 2 lbs s(.da. 

9 gals 8our milk. 4J gals eggs. 

S lbs ammonia. 86 lbs grated cocoanut. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



244 BAKREIi MIXTURES. 

COCOA TAFFY. 

196 tt)S flour. 4 lbs soda. 

10 gals molasses. 2 J lbs ginger. 

40 lbs sugar. Jib allspice. 

35 lbs butter and lard. i lb cinnamon. 

2 gals water. 15 lbs ground cocoanut. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

196 lbs flour. 70 lbs cocoanut. 

142 fcs powdered sugar. 8 gals eggs. 

30 lbs butter. 30 ozs ammonia. 

COCOANUT HONEY CAKE. 

196 lbs flour. 3 gals water. 

5 gals strained honey. 15 lbs grated cocoanut. 
27 lbs butter or lard. 3 lbs soda. 

COFFEE BISCUIT. 

196 lbs flour. 18 qts water and milk. 

16 lbs butter and lard. i lb mace. 

24 lbs A sugar. | lb soda. 
18 qts eggs. 6 ozs acid. 

CORNHILL CRACKERS. 

196 fi)S flour. 18 ozs saleratus. 

25 lbs butter or lard. 12 ozs tartaric acid. 
25 lbs sugar. 6 ozs ammonia. 

6 gals sour or butter milk. Salt to taste. 

CORN STARCH CRACKERS. 

196 lbs flour. 12 ozs ammonia. 
72 lbs corn starch. 9 gals milk. 

24 lbs lard. Salt to taste. 
24 lbs sugar. 

CRACKNELS OR CREAM CRACKERS. 

196 lbs flour. 25-30 ozs ammonia. 
18 lbs sugar. 1 gal water to dissolve am- 

9 lbs butter or lard. monia. 

9 gals eggs. Oil lemon to flavor. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BARREL MIXTURES. 245 



CREAM BARS. 

196 fi>8 flour. 5 gals sour milk. 

60 fi>8 butter. 1 lb soda. 

100 lbs sugar. Vanilla flavor. 
4 gals eggs. 

DOMESTICS. 

196 lbs flour. 6 ozs soda. 

72 ft)s powdered sugar. 6 ozs ammonia. 

13} qts eggs. 36 lbs butter. 
6 gals sour milk. 

DOMINOES AND PEARLS. 

196 ft»s flour. 4 ozs ammonia. 

26 lbs stijrar. 1 lb soda. 

20 lbs lard. 6 gals milk. 

DROP CAKE. 

196 tt)S flour. 6 gals milk. 

100 lbs sugar. 3 lbs ammonia. 

33 lbs butten 2} ozs oil lemon. 

22 lbs lard. 

EGG JUMBLES. 

196 lbs flour. 6 gals milk. 

150 lbs sucar. 1 lb sugar. 

28 lbs lard. 24 ozs ammonia. 

25 lbs butter. 1} ozs oil lemon. 
3 gals eggs. 

FANCY MILK CRACKERS. 

196 lbs flour. 15 lbs sugar. 

40 lbs butter. 6 qts eggs. 

FANTASTIC CRACKERS. 

196 lbs flour. f lb ammonia. 

36 lbs sugar. | lb soda. 

40 lbs butter and lard. 6 gals water, 
f lb salt. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



246 



BARREL MIXTURES. 



196 lbs flour. 
44 lbs butter. 
100 lbs sugar. 
2 gals eggs. 



FLUTED BARS. 



2} gals sour milk. 
1 lb ammonia. 
3 ozs oil lemon. 



FROSTED CREAM CRACKERS. 

196 K)S flour. 1 fi» salt. 

10 gals molasses. 15 tt>s lard. 

4 %a soda. 3 gals water. 

If flour is strong use more molasses ; make a soft dough 
and let it lay for 3 or 4 hours. 



196 fts flour. 
27 tbs butter. 
24 lbs sugar. 



FRUIT BISCUIT. 



1 lb ammonia.. 
6 gals water. 
40-60 lbs fruit. 



FRUIT CAKE— SUGAR TOR 



196 lbs flour. 
90 lbs sugar. 
54 lbs butter and lard. 
54 lbs currants. 
9 gals eggs. 



2} ft>s ammonia 
2| lbs soda. 
4^ gals milk. 
l| gals molasses. 
7^ lbs mixed spicesk 



GEM CAKE. 



196 fcs flour. 
42 lbs sugar. 
30 lbs butter and lard. 
10 gals molasses. 



3 gals water. 
2J gals eggs. 
5 lbs soda. 
2i lbs cinnamon,. 



GINGER JUMBLES. 



196 lbs flour. 

10 gals N. O. molasses. 
40 lbs C sugar. 

12 fcs butter. 

11 fi>s lard. 



18 qts water. 
5 ozs soda. 

2 lbs cinnamon^ 

3 lbs ginger. 
14 qts eggs. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BARREL MIXTURES. 247 

GINGER NUTS AND SNAPS. 
196 lbs short flour. 3 ft)s ginger. 

50 lb-* brown sugar. 4 ozs muriatic acid. 

10 gals or more molasses. 2 qts water. 
30 lbs lard. i lb alum. 

3 lbs soda. 2 qts boiling water. 

HONEY CAKE OR JUMBLES. 

196 lbs flour. 6 gals water. 

12 lbs sugar. 4 lbs cinnamon. 

15 gals honey. 2 lbs ginger. 

32 lbs lard. 2 ozs oil mace. 

4 lbs soda. 

HONEY DROPS A'ND JUMBLES. 

196 fi>s flour. 30 lbs lard. 

12 gals honey. 7 lbs soda. 

4 gals water. 

Set sponge with about 125 lbs. flour; let stand 12 hourg, 
then stiffen up with balance of flour. 

IMPERIALS. 
196 lbs flour. 1 lb soda. 

65 lbs sugar. 8 ozs cream of tartar. 

30 lbs butter and lard. 5 gals milk. 

1^ lbs ammonia. H g^^^ eggs. 

ITALIAN FINGERS. 
196 lbs flour. 6J qts eggs. 

30 lbs butter. l| lbs ammonia. 

104 lbs sugar. 6 ozs oil wintergreen. 

5 gals milk. 

JUMBLES. 
196 lbs flour. 1^ lbs ammonia. 

100 lbs sugar. 9 gals milk. 

33 lbs butter. 12 ozs soda, if milk is sour. 

24 lbs lard. 

If flour is strong use 8 ozs tartaric acid. 

KINDERGARTENS. 

196 lbs flour. J lb soda. 

25 lbs sugar. 6 ozs tartaric acid. 
25 lbs lard and butter. 3 ozs ammonia. 

3 lbs corn starch. 1 lb salt. 

6 gals water. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



248 * BARREL MIXTURES. 



LADY FINGERS. 

196 lbs flour. 1 J lbs ammonia. 

90 lbs sugar. li lbs soda. 

30 lbs butter. J lb tartaric acid. 

15 lbs lard. 6 gals milk. 
3 gals eggs. 

LEMON CRACKERS, JUMBLES AND SNAPS. 

196 lbs flour. 1 lb soda. 

125 lbs sugar. 2 J lbs ammonia. 

48 lbs butter and lard. 5 ozs oil lemon. 

6 gals sour niilk. 10 qs eggs. 

LEMON CREAM CRACKERS. 

196 lbs flour. 2i-3 lbs ammonia. 

60 lbs A sugar. 7 gals milk. 

25 lbs lard. 8 ozs oil lemon. 
If milk is sour, 8 ozs r.oda. 

LEMON WAFERS. 

196 lbs flour. 3 gals eggs. 

130 lbs sugar. 3 gals milk. 

56 lbs butter and lard. 4 gals water. 

2 lbs ammonia. 5 ozs oil lemon. 

J lb soda. 

MARYLAND SNAPS. 

196 lbs flour. 6 lbs ginger. 

12 gals molasses. 40 lbs lard. 

80 lbs sugar. 5 lbs soda. 
6 qts water. 

MOLASSES DROP CAKE. 

196 lbs flour. 36 lbs lard. 

12 gals N. O. molasses. 18 lbs A sugar. 
9 gals water. 3 lbs mixed spices. 

6 lbs soda. f lb oil lemon. 

NIC-NACS. 

196 lbs flour. 8 ozs tartaric acid. 

24 lbs sugar. 8 ozs ammonia. 

18 lbs lard. 8 ozs soda. 

24 qts milk. 
Dust with corn flour. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BARREL MIXTURES. 



249 



NONE-SUCH CRACKERS. 



196 lbs flour. 
38 lbs butter. 
1^ lbs saleratus. 



196 lbs flour. 
115 lbs sugar. 

16 doz eggs. 

40 lbs butter. 



J lb tartaric acid, 
5^ gals milk. 



NONPARIELS. 



8 gals milk. 
1 lb ammonia. 

1 lb soda. 

2 ozs oil lemon. 



OATMEAL SNA.PS, ETC. 

196 lbs flour. 9 lbs soda. 

78 lbs oatmeal. 2 lbs ammonia. 

48 lbs sugar. 12 lbs allspice. 

48 lbs lard. 18 gals molasses. 

OSWEGO CORN BISCUIT, 



100 lbs flour. 

100 lbs corn starch. 

28 lbs sugar. 

30 lbs butter. 



f lb ammonia. 
I lb fcoda. 
} lb muriatic acid. 
6 gals water. 



PALACE, MIXED. 

196 ft)S flour. 13 gals milk. 

104 lbs sugar. 26 ozs ammonia. 

26 lbs butter. 2 lbs soda. 

26tt)S lard. 1 ft) tartaric acid. 

12 qts eggs. 3^ ozs oil lemon. 
Put on some jelly; stick two together. 



196 ft)S flour. 
152 tt)S sugar. 
72 lbs butter, 

10 5)3 lard. 

11 qts eggs. 



PEPPERMINT DROPS. 

1 S) soda. 

4 ozs oil peppermint. 
4 ozs tartaric acid. 
12 gals milk. 

PRESIDENTS. 



196 lbs flour. 
30 lbs butter. 
78 Bbs sugar. 
3 gals eggs. 



4 gals milk. 
12 ozs ammonia. 
4 ozs oil lemon. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



250 BARHEL MIXTURES. 



RICH SEED CRACKERS. 

196 lbs flour. 1} lbs tartaric acid. 

30 Jbi butter. IJ lbs salt. 

18 lbs sugar. 2 lbs carraway seed 

1} lbs saleratus. t> gals water. 



RIFLE NUTS. 

196 lbs flour. 2 lbs salt. 

48 lbs sus;ar. 1 lb cloves. 

12 frals N. O. molasses. 1 lb ammonia. 

30 S>s lards. 2 lbs soda. 

3 Jbi cinnamon. 1^ lbs tartaric acid. 

3 lbs ginger. 

SHIP'S BREAD. 
196 lbs flour. 6 gals water. 

SHREWSBURY BARS. 

196 lbs flour. 4 gals eggs. 

96 lbs sugar. 4 gals sweet milk. 

48 lbs butter. 
No ammonia or soda. 

SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

196 lbs flour. 20 ozs soda. 

80 lbs sugar. 8 ozs tartaric acid. 

28 lbs butter. 3^ ozs ext. vanilla. 

2 gals eggs. i oz oil peppermint. 



2i gals water. 



SPICE CAKES. 



196 lbs flour. 26 doz eggs. 

10 gals molasses. 7 gals water. 

36 lbs butter. 2^ lbs cinnamon. 

39 lbs sugar. 5 lbs soda. 

SPICE JUMBLES AND FINGERS. 

196 lbs flour. 22 lbs lard. 

11 gals molasses. 5^ lbs ginger. 
46 lbs C sugar. 2^ lbs soda. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BARBEL MIXTURES. 



251 



SODA CRACKERS, 



196 lbs flour. 
25 lbs butter. 
6 lbs sugar. 
6 gals water. 



1 lb saleratus. 
1 lb tartaric acid. 
1 lb salt 



STRAWBERRY CAKES. 



196 lbs flour. 
92 lbs sugar. 
30 lbs lard. 
22 lbs butter. 
30 pts eggs. 



196 lbs flour. 
25 lbs butter. 
10 lbs lard. 
20 ozs soda. 



36ats 

1 lb tartaric acid. 
40 ozs ammonia. 

6 ozs extract strawberry. 



SUGAR BISCUIT. 



10 ozs tartaric acid. 
25 (Its water. 
60 lbs A sugar. 



Let the dough lay two or three hours before running off 



196 lbs flour. 
96 lbs sugar. 
36 lbs butter. 
12 lbs lard. 
30 ozs ammonia. 



SUGAR JUMBLES. 

15 oz^ soda. 
12 qts eggs. 

7} gals milk. 

3 ozs oil lemon. 



SUGAR TOP NONPAREILS. 



196 lbs flour. 
90 lbs A sugar. 
28 lbs lard. 
22 lbs butter. 
15 qts eggs. 



196 lbs flour. 
60 lbs sugar. 
30 lbs lard. 



196 lbs flour. 
32 lbs sugar. 
20 lbs lard. 



40 qts milk. 
39 ozs ammonia. 
39 ozs soda. 
15 ozs tartaric acid. 
3 ozs oil lemon. 



SUN AND MOON.* 



2i lbs ammonia. 
i lb cream of tartar. 
5^ gals water and milk. 



TEA BISCUIT. 

1 lb soda. 
6 gals water. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



^2 



BARBEL MIXTURES. 



TEA BISCUIT ( FINE.) 

196 lbs flour. 12 ozs soda. 

68 lbs A sugar. 4 ozs muriatic acid. 

4 ozs cream of tartar. 
8 ozs ground mace. 



15 lbs lard. 
15 lbs butter. 
2} lbs ammonia. 



196 lbs flour. 
8 lbs butter. 
5 qts milk. 
3 qts eggs. 



6 doz eggs. 

TOM COLLINS. 

5 ozs soda. 
5 ozs ammonia. 
20 lbs sugar. 
4 gals water. 



TUNBRIDOE CAKES. 

196 lbs flour. Ij^ lbs ammonia. 

100 lbs sugar. 4 gals eggs. 

20 lbs butter. 3 gals water. 

VANILLA BABS. 

196 lbs flour. 15 ozs ammonia. 

100 lbs sugar. 8 gals sweet milk. 

30 lbs butter. 3J ozs extract vanilla. 

20 lbs lard. 15 qts eggs. 



VANILLA WAFERS. 



196 lbs flour. 
152 lbs sugar. 

72 lbs butter. 

13 lbs lard. 

13 ozs soda. 



13 ozs extract vanilla. 
5 gals eggs. 
8J^ gals milk. 
2i ozs aluEfl. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Keep Md ill lour Busiiicss 



BY SUBSCRIBING TO THE 




Ik Cheapest and Best Journal of its Kind 

PUBLISHED IN THE WOELD. 



AIMS AND PURPOSES OK 

"The Confectioner and Baker.'* 

As there seems to be among many of the trade a misappre- 
hension of the aims and purposes of this journal, we tliink a 
brief summary of them may be of use. We are frequently In 
receipt of letters from parties who subscribe to The Confec- 
tioner AND Baker under the impression that each number con- 
tains a full line of recipes for every article to be manufactured, 
and finding such not to be the case, feel put out at their own. 
mistake. For those wishing such information we have prepared 
tiiree carefully compiled books, as advertised. 

This journal is principally intended to be: 1. A monthly 
summary of news, domestic and foreign ; of inventions, includ- 
ing the Hpecifications of American and foreign patents : and of all 
omer matters of interest pertaining to the Lonfeci loners' and 
Bakers' art. 2. For the answering of questions which may per- 
plex the subscriber in the practical or theoretical part of his busi- 
ness, and for the publication of any special recipes or lormulse,. 
which may be de ired from time to time : Thi^i privilege alone 
being worth coufiklevdhle to tveri/ proprietor, toorkmnn or appren- 
tice. 3. The publication of new processes of workmanship, and 
the formulae for new goods which are constantly being intro- 
duced. 4. The editorial notice -of subjects agitating the craft 
from month to month, both in this country and abroad. 5. Op- 
position to deleterious and fraudulent adulterations. 6. The 
teaching of honest principles and sound commercial morality, 
as the ba«i8 of business prosperity. 7. To elevate the intelligence 
of the craft, and keep them posted in regard to the status of their 
trade throughout the world, etc,, etc. 

No Confectioner and Baker who wishes to be up with the times 
can afford to be without the inforpiaton that is given from month 
to month in this journal. Nor can this information be gotten so 
readily/ or so cheaply/ anywhere else. 

The Confectiowkr and Baker is not a cheap advertising 
sheet. It is a carefully prepared magazine, published for the 
benefit of, and in the interest of its subscribers. 

THE CONFECTIONER AND BAKER will he sent 
one year, post paid, to any address, for $1.00; single 
and sample copies, 10c. Address all orders to, 
■ J. THOMPSON GILL, 

> ' 78 Fifth Ave., Cnwago. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



J. W. RUGER & CO., 

BUFFALO, N. T.. 



MAKE ALL KINDS OP 



Cracker Machinery 

— AND — 

BAKERS TOOLS, 

REEL OVENS, SHAFTING,' 
Pulleys, Hangers, &c., &c. 

Our New SOFT CAKE MAOHINB and DOUO-H 

MIXER is the Cheapest and Best 

Without an Exception. 

Our New Improved CONVERTIBLE FANNER 

AND PEELER is Perfect; it can be changed 

from Pan work to Peel work in three 

minutes, and the aprons are always 

handy to the oven mouth. 

Send for Dlastrated Catalogue and Price List, or call and see ns. 

J. W. RUGER & CO., 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



>^ 



o 

< 

D 
PQ 



O 



■^ 



o i 



s 



O 

o 
w 

n 
< 

w 

M 

W 
o 
<1 



w 
o 

o 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE C03ivd:r>IL.ETE 

Practical Confectioner 

This book, in 8 parts, 544 pages, contains full instruc- 
tions for Sugar Boiling; for the making of a 1 kinds of 
Candies, Ice Creams, Syrups, Preserves, Mineral and 
Aerated Waters, etc.; also, for the preparation of Colors, 
for Decorating, the Making of Ornamental Goods, 
Christmas Toys, Penny Specialties, Easter Eggs, etc., etc. 
It is in fact a complete Encyclopedia for the Confec- 
tioner, containing everything he should know concerning 
his business. It is reliable and has given universal satis- 
faction wherever sold. No Confectioner can afford to be 
without it. 

Sent Post-paid to any Address on Receipt of Price, $4.00. 

Address all orders aud remittances to 

J. THOMFSON GILL, Publisher, 78 Fifch Ave., Chicago. 
THE C03iv£r>I-iBTE 

Practical Pastry Cook. 

mi i-m, um, rm? cases, stc. 

This book contains full directions for making ail kinds 
of Puflf Pastes, Pie Pastes; also for the manufacture 
of Piesj Pie and Tart Fillings, Pastry Cakes, Pastry 
Creams, Puffs, Castards, etc., in fact the recipes for 
everything that a Baker and Confectioner needs to manu- 
facture in the line of Pastry. 

The Connplete Practical Pastry Cook, Part I, will be sent 
postpaid to any address on receipt of price, $1.00. 
Address all orders and remittances to 

J. THOMPSON GILL, Publisher. 

78 Fifth Ave., Chicago. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



L> 



'} 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



h 




:a 






— *wi tf,. %\^1^ ' *^_. Xr-^^ - ^ >' 



rv:N^-!V . ' _^.^ > >--=:•-:;' >'-U\'p^ "^'/v'-, ,";.0"' .«-'-. 













s- 



Digiti^e^'by Google 




Digitized by V--jOO^ I C 



