Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



•N' 



OOKERY^ 




CONVALESCENT COOKERY 



LONDON : PRINTED BY 
SIKITTISWOOOE ^ND CD., NEW-STRSJBT SQPdRf , 
AND PARLIAMENT STREET 



Convalescent Cookery 



Jl ^ctmilc ^ant>boo6 



CATHERINE RYAN 





? 


1. MW^«2 






^hi^aiS^ 


IContron 






CHATTO & WINDUS, 


PICCADILLY 


1881 






, {/la rigAts rc!, 

ilf. c. 


"t 


] 

OS . 



PREFA OE. 

There are few women in the world on whom 
has not deTolred, at aome period of their lives, 
the daty of taking care of sick people; it may 
hare been of uiemberB of their own families 
or of strangers. When worldly circumstances 
are easy, and permit of hired aid, the duties 
are lightened and the responsibilities shared ; 
trained nurses under skilled physicians antici- 
pate every want and meet every emei^ency. 
Bnt patients of this class form the minority ; 
beyond them are hundreds, nay thonsands, to 
whom the doctor's bill is so serious a matter, 
that to find, in addition, the wages and board of 
a hired nurse, is simply an impossibility. When 



vi PREFACE. 

into the homes of such people ilkiess comes, 
the sick patient has to rely upon such resources 
as can be found within the four walls of his 
own house. How often these fail, just when 
most needed, it would be impossible to calcu- 
late, and that not from want of affection nor 
lack of willingness in those in health, but from 
the absence of a little knowledge — such know- 
ledge as ought to be part of the education of 
every woman, no matter to what class in society 
she belongs. 

There are thousands of women into whose 
aimless lives comes no thought of the need of 
such knowledge as * how to cook for convales- 
cents,' until it is too late to make its learning 
useful. When the grave has closed over one 
so dear to a woman that she would almost have 
given her own life in exchange for the lost 
one, she thinks, with a pain from which God 



PREFACE, vii 

keep us all, of what she might have done had 
she only known how ; the ease she could have 
given and the pain she might have spared: 
happy is it for her if she does not think that 
the strength faded away because she was igno- 
rant of how to sustain it. To go into a 
hospital and have a nurse's training is only 
permitted to few women ; home duties claim 
the time and energies of the vast majority, and 
neither means nor opportunities come within 
reach of many who would be willing enough to 
learn. 

But every woman in her own home can 
learn how to cook for sick and feeble people. 
As a general rule, they require nothing elabo- 
rate ; but to turn out a mutton chop daintily, 
to be able to improvise a refreshing drink 
which will be harmless, to know what has 
made the beef-tea undrinkable, are things 



viii PREFACE. 

which, thougfh not generally known, ought to 
be, by every woman in the world. 

This book is not intended to take the place 
of the ordinary cookery book — ^that bulky volume 
which good housekeepers delight to place upon 
their shelves — but only to give some plain hints, 
brought into a cheap and compact form, of how 
to solve those first terrible problems which 
make difficult the path of self-educating young 
cooks — for example, whether the meat or the 
vegetable is to go into hot water or cold; 
whether the pot lid is to be kept on or off ; 
why the fish stuck to the pan instead of coming 
out brown and whole, and looking as nice as it 
might be at a dinner party ; and how long a 
pudding in a cup will take to boil in order to 
have it at the precise moment at which the 
patient may be able to eat it ; the cookery book 



PREFACE. ix 

always providing quantities for four or six 
people at the least. 

Dora Copperfield's salmon has become 
historical, because of that touch of nature 
which made so many women akin to her ; but 
pretty as it is in the pages of a novel, it is not 
so in real life* A woman should be able to 
judge for herself when she goes to a butcher's, 
or a baker's, or a fishmonger's, just as she 
would do were she to go to her milliner or her 
dressmaker, and should know if she has got 
the right article, and the full value of her 
money, or of her husband's — a highly moral 
view of the money question which is not always, 
taken. The woman who begins with one dish 
fairly done, will find the pleasure of going on 
from one step to another ; cookery is both an 
art and a science, and even in the longest life- 
vouchsafed to a woman in this world, she will 



:x PREFACE. 

never be obliged to sit down with folded hands 
^and bewail that in cookery there are no more 
worlds left to conquer. 

It is particularly requested that those who 
wish to derive any instruction from this book 
will read the preliminary chapters over care- 
fuUy before trying any of the recipes. The 
arrangement adopted in ordinary cookery books 
has been departed from purposely, in order to 
•ensure the study of rudimentary principles. 



CONTENTS. 



OENEBAL, 

I'AOK 

^Qualifications — Old recipe for a cook for convalescents 
— More modem and more practical ideas — Wear and 
tear of life — Convalescents — People who will never 
be well again 1 

WHAT A COOK FOR CONVALESCENTS 
OUGHT TO BE. 

Conscientious— Patient — Cleanly — Punctual . . .9 

WHAT A COOK OUGHT TO KNOW. 

How to buy with advantage — To pay with ready money 
— How to know good Beef — Mutton — Veal — Lamb — 
Pork — Fowls — Gouff6 on Fowls — Turkey's — Geese — 
Ducks — Fish — 8hell-fish — Eggs— Anecdote — Flour 
meal— Grain— Fruit— Milk 17 

IN THE KITCHEN 

^urse and cook in one — ^No cooking in the sick-room — 
Cleanliness — Washing pots and saucepans — A 
Frenchman on taking care of the kitchen — Water in 
which fish or vegetables has been boiled — Cooking 
utensils 30 



xii CONTENTS. 



ON COOKING IN GENERAL. 

Weighing and measuring quantities — Short ways of 
Measuring — Pinches — Beef-tea — Best beef for soup 
— Kitchen fire — Vegetables In summer and in winter 
— How to add them to soup — The fire for roasting — 
For broiling— Cooking vegetables . . , ,39 

RECIPES FOR BEEF-TEA AND BROTH. 

Beef extract — Beef-tea — Soyer's recipe for beef-tea — 
Gouff§'s broth & la minute — Mrs. Beeton's beef -tea — 
Mutton broth^Mutton broth quickly made — Calf's- 
foot broth — Chicken broth — Chicken extract — Cheap 
chicken broth 46 

BROILING AND FRYING. 

First solid given is generally broiled — Suitable fire — 
Broiling iron — To have it clean — Time required to 
broil meat of different kinds — Steak — Chop — Cutlet 
— Mutton kidney — Veal chop — Pork chop — Chop 
bread-crumbed — Broiling tongs — The pan — Lard — 
— Butter — To crumb chops and cutlets— Preparing 
bread crumbs — Frying the cutlet — A second way of 
dressing cutlets with crumbs — A third way — TobroU 
a fowl 69 

ROASTING. 

Fire for roasting — Avoid having a draught — To know 
when roasted meat is done — Time required for beef — 
Leg of mutton — Neck or loin of veal — Turkey — 



CONTENTS. xiii 

Small turkey — Dack — Capon — Fowl — Pigeon — 
Pheasant — Partridge — Larks — Grouse — Hare — 
Leveret —Snipe — Plovers — Babbit — Roasting fat 
meat — Lean — Boasting-jack — The woollen thread — 
Basting— To make veal or fowls look well. « . 67 

BOILING, 

To keep the water boiling— Skimming— Allowing pots 
to boil over — Boil slowly — Hard or soft water — Hot 
or cold water for vegetables — For fish — To know 
when boiled meat is done — On the boiling of mutton — 
Great authorities — Francatelli — Jewry — Gouff6 — Hill 
— Beeton — Walsh — Liebig — Keeping pot-lids off or on 
— Time required for boiling different kinds of vege- 
tables — Carrots — Turnips — Parsnips — Cauliflower— 
Jerusalem artichokes — Spinach — Celery — Vegetable 
marrow — Asparagus — Onions — Beans . . ,73 

FISH. 

Boiled — Water — Time required for different kinds — Brill 
— Cod, head and shoulders, tail end — Turbot — 
Haddock — Flounders — Mackerel — Salmon — Skate — 
Sole— Whiting— Melted butter— Fried— Cod sliced— 
Mackerel — Flounders — Herring — Time required — 

Cod cutlets — Salmon cutlets Plaice — Skate — 

Soles— Whiting 80 

Game — Pheasants — Partridges — Woodcock — Snipe — 
Plovers— -Teal— Widgeon 84 

Rabbits— Stewed— Fricass6ed— Heated— Fried- iBoup . 86 



xiv CONTENTS. 

PAOV 

Lamb Soup — Fowl soup — Cold fowl , . . . , 9^ 

Jelly — Calves*-foot— Cow's heel — For a weak child — 
Miss Nightingale on jelly — On food in general — 
Liebig's extract . 96 

MISCELLANEOUS BECIPES lOa 

CONCLUSION 14 Ji 

APPENDIX 147 

DIET TABLES IN LONDON HOSPITALS . .147 

INDEX 157 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 



GENERAL. 

Miss Nightingale, in her book ^ Notes on 
Nursing/ remarks that it is a very generally 
received opinion among people, that what id 
chiefly reqtiired in a sick-nurse is 'a good, 
loving heart ; ' others say that a nurse needs 
only to be * devoted and obedient.' *This 
definition,' adds the same lady, ^ would do just 
as well for a porter. It might even do for a 
horse. It would not do for a policeman. Con- 
sider how many women there are who have 
nothing to devote — neither intelligence, nor 
eyes, nor ears, nor hands.' 

In an old book, written more than one 
hundred years ago, the famous American 

B 



2 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

writer, Dr. Franklin, who was considered 
to be wisdom itself in human form, gives a 
receipt for making a good sick-nurse, who was 
to be also competent to cook the food for the 
sick person under her charge : — 

Take one grain of sense ; 
Half a grain of prudence ; 
One di'achm of imderstanding ; 
One ounce of patience ; 
One pound of resolution. 

* Intermix them together, and fold them up in 
your brain for twenty-four hours. Then put 
them into the bottle of your heart, stopping 
them with the cork of jtidgment. This, 
rightly made, and taken in proper doses so 
often during the twenty-four hours as may be 
necessary, will soon qualify you to be the most 
admirable nurse and the most successful cook 
for your invalid friends.' 

All very admirable ingredients to make a 
useful man or woman in any walk of life, but 
there is a great deal more to be learned before 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 3 

a woman is fit to have the responsibility of 
providing food for sick people. Which of us, I 
wonder, if very weak and very hungry, would 
be satisfied to know that under the same roof 
with us was a wonderful woman, with sense, 
prudence, understanding, patience, and reso- 
lution, all blended together in the composi- 
tion of her character P We would rather have 
a little beef -tea that we could swallow without 
being disgusted at the sight of it ; or a chop 
that was not tough, burned to a cinder, and 
half cold ; or some little tempting pudding, that 
we had never seen before, and which came to 
us as such a joyful surprise that it was 
impossible to help eating it; or an egg that 
did not appear to be half-hatched. 

Or if we had been lying for a whole hour, 
perhaps two or three, with a dry parched 
mouth, wishing for some cooling drink, and 
thinking of all sorts of forbidden things — 
like the Prince of Wales, who wakened into 
consciousness after his long illness begging for 

b2 



4 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

beer — the kind of understanding we should 
want our nurse to have would be how to invent 
some drink which would meet with both our 
approval and the doctor^s; that would be 
brought at once, without the delay of another 
hour ; and which would be given in a clean glass 
or cup, just large enough to hold as much as we 
should like to drink, and yet not so heavy that 
we should have to ask some one to lift it to our 
poor parched lips for us. I am afraid I should 
not like the nurse of prudence, who should 
insist on my drinking all the old milk which 
had been in the house for twelve hours before 
she allowed me to have any of the new which 
had just come in; or the woman of resolution 
who would give me some water which had been 
in my room all night, instead of taking the 
trouble to go down to the pump or spring and 
get me some that was fresh and sparkling and 
had no taste of physic about it. Also I should 
like her to give it to mo in some light vessel^ 
perhaps a small cup with a handle^ which I 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 5 

could grasp, if a tumbler was beyond my 
strength ; but I would not like my drink out of 
a large delft basin, with a thick edge that hurt 
my lips, and a great side to drink at, which, as 
I could not swallow quickly, would send all the 
water over me, wetting ray night-clothes and 
the bed-clothes. 

Even if a woman have enough natural 
perception and refinement to guess at these 
things for herself, there is a great deal to be 
learned about cooking for sick people that 
nothing but downright learning, patience, and 
practice wUl teach. 

In speaking of convalescents, we generally 
mean sick people who are returning to health ; 
who have had a long illness, and are recovering 
from it. To these people there comes a stage 
of convalescence when the doctor, having care- 
fully watched his patient all through the worst 
part of the illness, pronounces him to be out of 
danger, and that he only requires the cook 
now instead of the doctor. 



6 CONVALESCENT COOKERT. 

We are very fond of talking of the ' wear 
and tear of life : ' by it some people mean the 
exhaustion of the mind ; others apply the term 
to the body only. 

It is part of what is called our animal 
economy that there is a certain degree of waste 
going on continually, which requires to be con- 
stantly recruited by a supply of fresh materials. 
Of this waste, the extent of it, and the changes 
it brings, we are scarcely conscious, especially 
while in health ; but it is a fact that scarcely a 
single portion of our bodies consists of the same 
substance that composed it only a few years 
before. 

At all times, therefore, it is necessary that 
the food on which we live should be of such a 
nature as to repair this waste that is always 
going on. It must be of a certain kind, and in 
sufficient quantities. During illness the waste 
goes on, not alone to as great an extent as 
during health, but in many cases the disease 
in itself causes greater waste ; and there is no 



CONVALESCENT COOKEBT. 7 

new supply of strength coming in from taking 
food, from fresh air, and from the exercise of 
the animal powers. There is enormous waste 
and there are no repairs ; the latter are cut off 
altogether. So soon, therefore, as the disease 
has been checked, the repairs, by means of 
strengthening food, ought to begin. By 
strengthening the digestion more power is 
given to it, and the more food the patient is 
able to digest, the greater is the groi/vth of all 
the animal powers, and the more complete are 
the repairs of the waste which has gone on. 
But all invalids who require to have nourishing 
food are not convalescents, nor ever will be. 
There are sick people who will never in this 
world be better or stronger, or leave the narrow 
room in which they are confined but for one 
narrower still ; and yet their lives are precious, 
so very precious to those who watch them, that 
no labour is too great, no'pains dare be'spared, 
to keep them one week — nay, even one day — 
longer in this world. In such cases every 



9 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

morsel of food BwaJlowed is counted as so muoU 
strength, and every little accession of strength 
is another day or hour of life ; so, how important 
is it that every woman should know before the 
need arises how to cook for sick people, and not 
find it out for herself when the experience 
comes too late to be of any use in prolonging 
the one life that was all the world to her — a 
thousand times dearer to her, perhaps, than her 
own. 

There is one great difference between pro- 
viding food for one who grows better every day 
and for one who is growing worse. For the 
convalescent returning health gives renewed 
strength and a better appetite, but with the 
fading invalid, every day's experience is a new 
difficulty; the palate is more fastidious, the 
appetite more capricious, and the powers of 
digestion have grown weaker. Then, indeed, 
will the abilities of the cook be tested to the 
utmost ; she will find that all, and more than 
all, the skill she possesses is required. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 9 



WHAT A COOK FOR CONVALESCENTS 

OUGHT TO BE. 

If a motto were to be selected for all women 
who have to cook food, or to provide it for sick 
people, there is one, a very old-fashioned one, 
which I should like to recommend to them : — 
* Whatsoevee thy hand findeth to do, do 
it with thy might.* 

It might even be made a compound one by 
adding to it a second part, written more than 
one thousand years later than the first: — 

* Not WITH EYE SEEVIOB, AS MEN PLEA8EES ; 
BUT IN SINGLENESS OP HEAET, PEAKING GOD.' 

For the cook must above all things be con- 
scientious. All her greatest successes depend 
upon attention to small things, care in minute 
particulars of which no one but herself is aware. 



10 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

and which she might neglect or be careless 
about, and no one but herself be able to trace 
the failure to its cause. 

The reason why people are apt to believe 
that a good, loving heart is the only requisite 
for a cook or a nurse, is because aflfection 
makes people conscientious in trifles which 
may or may not affect the health of the patient. 
To take trouble in small matters is even a 
pleasure for one we love ; no toil is then a 
grievance. Fatigue is disregarded, and all our 
perceptions are quickened by our affections. 
Our inventive powers come into play, and 
ingenuity seems to exhaust itself in devising 
remedies and comforts. 

The second qualification is patience. The 
cook must be unwearied in well-doing. No 
matter how capricious is the appetite of the 
patient, or how uncertain disease may make 
the temper, the cook must be steady in doing 
her work. If the patient ask for some particu- 
lar kind of food one day, and refuse to eat 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 11 

iliat very same thing the next, the cook must 
only be thankful if her skill can produce some* 
thing else that will answer instead. 

Cleanliness is another point on which the cook 
must be irreproachable ; not alone in her own 
person^ but in her cooking utensils^ in the food 
itself, and in the way in which she serves it up. 

Did you ever have a piece of bread and 
butter brought to you which had been cut 
with a knife previously used to peel and cut an 
onion P Or have you tried to drink a cup of 
milk which had been warmed in a gi*easy sauce- 
pan P Or have you ever seen some butter put 
down upon a table, one side of which had a 
suspicious appearance of having been nibbled 
by a mouse? Think of the wild schemes 
which one after another darted through your 
brain for inducing your entertainers to let you 
have your slice of bread without any butter. 
Think of how all these accidents seem to you 
when you are in health — if accidents you call 
them — and have some pity for the poor invalid 



12 CONVALESCEKT COOKERY. 

yiho lies hopelessly at your mercy; lie is 
obliged to eat whatever you bring him, or else 
remain hungry, feeling himself growing per- 
ceptibly weaker, because he has not had enough 
food even to check the waste of body going on, 
not to speak of the repairs which are necessary. 
By the time you have prepared something else for 
him to eat, his appetite is gone, actually because 
he has not strength enough left for swallowing. 

The next point to be insisted upon in a cook 
is punctuality, and with it may be joined order 
and method. To have the food prepared at a 
certain hour, it is absolutely essential that the 
cook shall have everything she may require in the 
house beforehand, everything she is in the habit 
of using kept in its right place, and every branch 
of preparation carried out in its proper order. 

The Baroness Burdett Coutts has a capital 
motto for the schools at Finchley, which is 

worth putting down here : — 

Do everything at its proper time ; 
Keep everything to its proper use ; 
Put everything in its proper place ; 
Use everything in a proper manner. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 13 

To be punctual, or to carry on the work with 
order and method, a great amount of fore- 
thought is required. The cook must not be 
satisfied with thinking what her patient will 
require to-day, but she must think for to-morrow 
also. 

Not that she can regulate the patient's 
appetite, nor exactly foresee what a doctor may 
order, but she ought to be prepared for any 
emergency which may arise, and that can only 
be done by being punctual and orderly in the 
regular duties required from her. Miss Night- 
ingale says that there are thousands of patients 
annually starved in the midst of plenty from 
want of attention to the ways which alone make 
it possible for them to take food. This want of 
attention is as remarkable in those who urge 
upon the sick to do what is quite impossible to 
them, as in the sick themselves, who will not 
make the effort to take what is perfectly pos« 
sible to them. 

For instance, to nlost very weak patients it 



14 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

is quite impossible to take any solid food before 
eleven o'clock in the forenoon, nor then if their 
strength is still farther exhausted bj fksting 
till that hour. For weak patients have gene- 
rally feverish nights, and in the morning dry 
mouths ; and if they could eat with those dry 
mouths, it would be the worse for them. A 
spoonful of beef-tea, of arrowroot and wine, of 
egg-flip, every hour, will give them the requisite 
nourishment, and prevent them from being too 
much exhausted to take at a later hour the 
solid food which is necessary for their re- 
covery. 

And every patient who can swallow at all 
can swallow these liquid things if he chooses. 
But how often do we hear a mutton-chop, an 
egg, a bit of bacon, ordered to a patient for 
breakfast, to whom (as a moment's considera- 
tion would show us) it must be quite impossible 
to take such things at that hour. 

Again, a nurse is ordered to give a patient 
a teacupful of some article of food every three 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 16 

hours ; the patient's stomach rejects it. If so, 
try a tablespoonful every hour ; if this will not 
do, a teaspoonful every quarter of an hour. 

If we did but know the consequences which 
may ensue in very weak patients from ten 
minutes' fasting or repletion (I call it repletion 
when they are obliged to leave too small an 
interval between taking food and some other 
exertion, owing to the nurse's unpunctuality), 
we should be more careful never to let this 
occur. In very weak patients there is often a 
nervous difficulty of swallowing, which is so 
much increased by any other call upon their 
strength that, unless they have their food 
punctually at the minute, which minute again 
must be arranged so as to fall in with no other 
minute's occupation, they can take nothing till 
the next respite occurs ; so that unpunctuality, 
or a delay of ten minutes, may very well turn 
out to be one of two or three hours. And why 
is it not as easy to be punctual to a minute ? 
Life often hangs upon these minutes. 



16 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

One of the greatest authorities on cooking 
that we have is Monsieur Jules GouflK, Her 
Majesty's head pastrycook. lie advises cooks 
not to lose sight of one great practical principle ; 
namely, that it is always better to be in advance 
in the preparation of any meal rather than 
behindhand. It is always easier to proceed 
slower when one finds oneself ready too soon^ 
but when you are compelled to hurry things for 
want of time, there is every probability of doing 
badly, and it is rare that some part of the cook- 
ing should not suffer. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 17 



WHAT A COOK FOR CONVALESCENTS 
OUGHT TO BE ACQUAINTED WITH. 

There is an old proverb which says, * If fools 
went not to market, bad ware would not be 
sold.' 

But a great many people who have to cook 
for sick people never go to market at all — they 
trust to others to buy for them everything that 
they require ; the worst of which is, that they 
do not know good meat from bad when it is 
brought in to them. Nor are they always quite 
sure whether they have the thing which they 
know is the best for their purpose. 

But whether a woman goes to market her- 
self or not, she ought at least to know how to 
choose in case it fell to her lot to go. She 





]8 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

ought to be a judge of fish, flesh, and fowl, 
in their uncooked states, to know fresh vege- 
tables and fruit from stale, to have some clear 
ideas respecting first-class flour, or meal, or 
rice, or sago, or any of the one hundred and 
one things which a cook requires. 

She ought to know all about kitchen 
utensils, all the diflferent kinds, which are 
essentials and which extras. 

And lastly, she ought to be most skilful in 
turning all her materials to good account and 
making the most of them. 

That a cook should be economical seems 
unnecessary to add, but it is not the least im- 
portant qualification. A good cook is never 
wasteful, and in times when illness comes into 
a house there is so much additional expense 
necessarily incurred, that in most households it 
is doubly necessary that the cook should be 
what the Scotch call *a woman of faculty/ 
For instance, if she has used the yolks of one 
or two eggs in making some dish to go to the 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 19 

sick-room, she ought to be able to turn the 
whites to account in the dinner for the familr. 
From the meat which has been used for making 
beef-tea she ought to make some broth bj 
adding some vegetables and a little spice ; or 
she might turn it into potted meat for break- 
fast. 

It is only by knowing exactly how long each 
dish will take to cook that she will be able to 
economise in that most costly necessary — firing. 
She must learn how to prepare the fire at the 
proper time, of the exact heat required. A 
wasteful cook first makes a fire which is too 
hot, and then has to wait till it cools, if the 
food she is about to cook will not bear a strong 
fire. 

She will make as large a fire to warm some 
beef-tea as would roast a joint, and when the 
beef- tea is taken off, the rest of the fire is 
allowed to go to waste. A woman with fore- 
thought and skill, as well as of economical 
habits, will at once think if there is anything 

c 2 



20 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

which will be required on the following day 
which could be prepared beforehand — is there 
any soup which might be put on to boilP are 
there clean clothes to be aired ? or is there any 
other use to which the fire can be put P 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 21 



EOW TO GO TO MARKET. 

* Ready money/ says Lord Byron, * is Aladdin's 
lamp.' If you want to buy with advantage, try 
and pay ready money for everything. Then, if 
the beef be not prime in one shop, yoa may go to 
another ; and if you know of some place where 
a basket of fresh eggs has just been brought in, 
you can have some of them, instead of being 
obliged to keep to a shop having stale ones, 
because you have a running account there. 

Good beef ought to be of a bright red colour, 
with light yellow fat, approaching the hue of 
fresh butter; the skin thick, with a thin 
layer of fat between the outer skin and the lean 
flesh. 

Inferior beef is hard and firm to the touch 
but the fat is not firm; the flesh of a dull 
brown red, with a good deal of gristle. 



«3 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

Good mutton, like beef, is of a bright red 
colour, free from gristle, and very firm ; white 
transparent fat. 

Inferior mutton is of a dull red colour, with 
yellow and opaque fat. The colour of the 
outside of a joint of mutton alters by being 
hung up for several days before being used, 
which is absolutely necessary; but experience 
soon teaches the buyer. 

Veal should be of a light colour, the fat 
exceedingly white and rather transparent. If 
the kidney be surrounded with thick solid 
white fat, and the flesh dry, not flabby, the 
meat is good. 

Veal lean, and the kidney surrounded by 
red-looking fat, is not good. Veal is in season 
from May till September, but can be had at 
other times, as some cows are required to calve 
all the year round to keep up the supply of 
milk. 

Lamb, which lasts from March till August, 
must be used when freshly killed ; the younger 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 23 

it is, the sooner after being killed it must be 
cooked. The vein of the fore-quarter in lamb 
is an excellent guide whether it be fresh or 
not. It should be blue, without any tinge 
of green, for when green appears, it is • a sure 
indication that the meat has been too long 
killed. In the hind- quarter the kidney fat 
turns slightly green, and gives a faint smell — 
not exactly putrid, but approaching to it. The 
knuckle also ought not to be limp, but should 
preserve its stiffness. The eyes of lamb are 
the best guide of all, for so long as they are 
full and bright, the buyer may rest assured that 
the lamb is only just killed. 

Pork is rarely given to invalids, being far 
too indigestible; but it may be no harm to 
mention how it may be chosen, as the cook who 
goes to market to lay in stores for the con- 
valescent, may also have the wants of a house- 
hold to think of. She ought to take a thin 
piece of the lean between her finger, and if of 
a good quality it will readily yield to a smart 



24 CONVALESCEXT COOKERY. 

squeeze. The colour ought to be rather pale 
than red. The rind ought also to be thin and 
delicate. The freshness is indicated by the 
transparency and freedom from any green tint 
or unwholesome smell. Measly pork is known 
by the fat containing enlarged glands, called 
kernels in the trade, and by the lean yielding 
little specks of matter on pressure. In this 
state it is quite unfit for human food. 

There is no food which is so much prized 
for invalids as fowls. Not only may the flesh 
be eaten of plain roast or boiled fowl, but many 
dainty dishes can be prepared from fowls. A 
fowl may be altogether boiled down into jelly 
in a meat digester, if the bones have previously 
been well broken; and when carefully made, 
no jelly contains the same amount of nutriment 
with so little demand for exertion of the weak 
digestive powers. 

From December 1st to May 1st great care is 
required in selecting fowls, as it is just possible 
they may not be very tender. After this, spring 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 25 

chickens may be had, -which are better for 
invalids. A young fowl has always large feet 
and knee-joints, which become reduced in size 
as they grow older. A tough fowl has a thin 
neck and feet, and the flesh of the thigh has a 
slight violet tinge. Try the flesh of the pinion 
and breast ; if both these are tender, the fowl 
may be used with confidence. 

So many artificial means are resorted to by 
fowl merchants for altering the appearance of 
the skin of a fowl, that it is impossible to judge 
by its skin. It ought in most instances to be 
fine, no matter what its colour be; but different 
breeds of fowls, such as Cochin, Dorking, &c., 
have skins differing in texture, even while at 
the same age ; so the touch must be more relied 
upon than the colour. 

On the subject of fowls a great authority — 
Monsieur Gouffe, the head cook of the French 
Jockey Club, and brother to the Queen of 
England's chief pastrycook — says : * Never use 
an old fowl in cookery. Whichever way you 



26 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

dres3 it, it never will be good. It is a great 
mistake to recommend, as in some cookery 
books, the putting of an old hen in the stock- 
pot. Instead of improving the broth, it can do 
nothing bat impart to it the unpleasant flavour 
of the hen-house. It is well, however, to dis- 
tinguish between hard but young poultry and 
the toughness of an old fowl. With the 
former something may be done, but with the 
old and tough biids, I repeat most emphatically, 
nothing, absolutely nothing, can be done.' 

A good turkey will be recognised by the 
whiteness of the flesh and fat. Beware of 
those with long hairs, and those also the flesh 
of which on the legs and back is of a violet 
tinge. 

To select a goose, try the flesh of the 
pinion, and break oflF the lower part of the 
beak, which should break easily. The fat 
should be light- coloured and transparent. 
Ducks are chosen in the same way. 

Geese and ducks are mentioned, as was 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY 27 

pork, in the interests of the healthy ; but both 
are unfit for weak digestions. 

To describe the different kinds of fish 
would require more space than we can spare, 
and to mention the seasons at which each kind 
can be had. But whatever is bought it ought 
to be fresh. 

1st. The ejes must be bright. 

2nd. The gills red. 

3rd. The flesh firm. 

4th. The fish should be well covered with 
scales. 

Make the fishmonger lift the fish by the 
head ; it will then be seen, if the body be stiff, 
or, if it fall, what is called flaccid. 

Pish is a light and very easily digested 
kind of food, but some of the richer and 
coarser kinds are rarely if ever given to in- 
valids. 

Shell fish, with the exception of oysters, 
are never given. 

Eggs. — ^A lady who knew very little about 



28 COm^ALESCENT COOKERY. 

housekeeping, but wished to have it supposed 
that she knew a great deal, was ginng instruc-» 
tions to her ser7ant how to choose fresh eggs* 
* You are to put one into water,' she said, * and 
if it be fresh, it will — ^let me see — it will sink. 

No, I am wrong ; if it is fresh, it will swim 

Well, I am not quite sure ; but it wiQ either 
sink or swim/ 

The servant must have found such instruc- 
tion a little bewildering. What the mistress 
meant to say was, that eggs, if very stale, will 
sink, and if very fresh, will swim. Some people 
pretend to be able to tell fresh eggs by putting 
the tip of the tongue to the narrow end, and if 
a little warmth seems to be in the shell, pro- 
nounce them fresh ; but this is a mistake, for 
if eggs have been greased when newly laid, to 
keep them fresh, aU the imaginary heat in the 
shell is gone; the butter, or whatever has 
been used, coming between the tongue and the 
lime in the egg-shell. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 29 

Good flour is smooth to the touch, cold, and 
when pressed retains the form of the pressure. 

Good meal has a peculiarly sweet smell. 

Good grain is plump and firm. 

Vegetables for sick people ought to be very 
fresh, in which case they are crisp, not limp. 

Fresh fruit has a downy, glossiy look upon 
the skin. 

Fresh milk everyone can recognise. Many 
people use the condensed milk for cooking, 
mixing it with water. The Swiss condensed 
milk is much preferable to the English. lb 
costs a halfpenny or a penny a tin more than 
the English, but it is quite worth the diflFerence 
in price. 



30 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 



IN THE KITCHEN. 

It is much easier to cook nice dainty dishes 
if a woman have no other occupation to follow, 
and nothing else to think of but roasting, 
stewing, and boiling. But it is quite another 
matter if she be wife, mother, nurse, and cook, 
all at one and the same time. 

A sick husband, three or four young child* 
ren (one perhaps an infant), very small quarters 
in which to live, and very little money to pro- 
vide for the wants of so many people, and her 
task is no easy one. 

She will not be able to go out to buy what 
she wants, as a sick person cannot always be 
left alone, and it is always more expensive and 
less satisfactory to have to employ someone 
else. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 31 

She must make the best of what is brought 
to her, for she is then in the position of the 
man in the proverb,* who, not having what he 
liked, was obliged to like what he had. 

It seems almost unnecessary to advise people 
not to have any cooking done in the same room 
with the patient, for he will have little or no 
appetite left with which to eat his meal, if he 
has had to endure the fuss and smell of pre- 
paration first. Unfortunately, in many families, 
especially at the present price of firing, it is 
not easy to avoid difficulties of this kind. If it 
be necessary to keep up a fire in the sick per- 
son's room, the supply for the kitchen is neces- 
sarily limited, and occasionally the bedroom fire 
has to be made to do a little duty; but this 
should be as rarely as possible. 

The most important point in the kitchen is 
to have everything kept very clean. No food 
will be palatable which is not made in clean 
vessels, nor will an invalid like the appearance 
of anything sent up which seems not quite free 



32 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

from dust or grease, or anything which ought 
not to be in it. 

If it be possible to keep a diflferent set of 
cooking utensils for the sick person's food, it is 
very desirable to do so ; but in many households 
the supply of pots and pans is too limited ta 
allow of this, and some portion of the family 
dinner often urgently awaits the next turn of 
some particular saucepan. 

Whether a pot or saucepan is to be used 
immediately or not, it ought, directly after 
being emptied, to be filled with cold water. If 
it has been used for boiling rice, com flour, 
porridge, or anything which clings to the 
sides, this will be loosened by the water, 
and make the after-cleaning easier. To clean 
saucepans, the remains of what has been cooke 
stiU adhering must be removed with a small 
scrubber of bent grass or heather — cooks of 
primitive habits have been known to use fresh 
hay for this purpose — and the inside well 
scoured with sand and a rough cloth. The 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 33 

saucepan must then be nused out, not once, 
but several times, with cold water, and dried. 
Careful cooks put the saucepans in front of the 
fire thoroughly to dry the insides. Before 
using them they should be wiped with a cloth 
inside, and again rinsed. When the saucepans 
are not in use, the lids ought not to be kept 
upon them, but hung up close at hand; and 
exactly the same care must be bestowed upon 
them as is given to the pots to which they be- 
long. A lid which has not been properly 
cleaned, on which the steam from one kind of 
food has settled, will be sure to give an un- 
pleasant taste to whatever it is put over — per- 
haps some compound of a totally different 
nature. 

Saucepans which are greasy can be cleaned 
by boiling in them a little water in which a bit 
of common soda has been put. 

N.B. — Don't forget that the lid is also to be 
included in the soda process. 

But all the care in the world given to the 



84 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

pots and pans is bnt half the battle, unless the 
kitchen itself is kept perfectly clean. 

GouflF(6, the French cook I quoted to you 
just now, says, ^ A kitchen may be small, badly- 
arranged, and ill- lighted ; but it should never, 
on any plea, be dirty.' . 

I quite agree with 6ouff6 : there is no ex- 
cuse for dirt in any shape. 

It is impossible to cook much, either for 
sick people or people in health, without some 
of the smell getting out of the kitchen and 
making its way up through the house. Have 
you perceived how much more unpleasant is 
the smell if the kitchen be not a particularly 
clean one, and smells of dirt and food blended 
together? Much smell may be prevented by 
keeping the chimney, especially round the 
mouth, clean and free from soot, and if it be a 
close range on which the cooking is done, by 
keeping the flues very clean ; but it is still more 
necessary for the cook to be careful in not allow- 
ing anything to boil over either into the fire 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 85 

or on the stove. No endeavours then will pre- 
vent the smell from making its way np-stairs, 
to the great disgust of the sick person. If the 
sick-room be close by, so much the worse for 
the patient. 

The water in which vegetables have been 
boiled, or fish, ought to be thrown away as 
soon as possible in every house, but especially 
in any house where there is illness; and it 
ought not, on any pretence whatsoever, to be 
allowed to run down the pipe from the sink, 
but taken away and emptied outside the 
house. 

This same sink is a place of great impor-* 
tance. No scraps ought ever to be allowed to 
accumulate in the corners, as is sometimes to 
be seen even in respectable houses, and it 
ought to be washed out every day with soft 
soap and boiling water — a little soda in addi- 
tion is no harm — and then linsed, well rinsed, 
with cold water. 

Much of the delicacy of cooking depends 

D 2 



96 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

upon the vessels in which ifc is to be done. Eor 
the preparation of delicate food the saucepans 
lined with white enamel are the best, but 
these are more costly than those which are 
tin-lined or else not lined at all. The ordi- 
nary iron saucepan, before it is tinned, is the 
best for general purposes ; but soups, sauces, 
or £ruit, or anything which contains acids, must 
be put in a lined saucepan, an iron one tinned 
being the least costly. But in course of time 
it will be found that the tin is apt to melt from 
the sides, and run down to the bottom in small 
ridges, which retain the dirt, and render it 
difficult to keep the vessel clean and sweet. 

All saucepans ought to have closely fit- 
ting lids. 

For making soup a meat digester is most 
valuable, but it is an expensive article, as a 
very small one costs seven or eight shillings. 
If the price be no object, there is no question 
but that the juice of the meat is more tho- 
roughly extracted, and the process of boiling 



CONVALESCENT COOKERl. 37 

down performed more eflfectually than in the 
common stewpan. 

A frying-pan is a necessary; so also is a 
broiling-iron, for chops and steaks, broiled 
fowl, &c ; but as a general rule a cook who 
knows her business will make the daintiest 
dishes with only the ordinary kitchen utensils. 
A pestle and mortar will be found useful. 

One final word on the subject of cleanliness 
before leaving it. Do not try to be economical 
with respect to water. Wash the kitchen 
floor frequently, and if it be a large room, 
change the water you are using several times 
during the process. 

And in washing pots and saucepans do 
not try to make the same greasy water do for 
half-a-dozen, or perhaps more. Have plenty of 
clean, hot water, and the labour of cleaning will 
be much lessened. 

As soon as the cooking is over, clean up 
the stove, wash the pots, and open the kitchen 
window. 



38 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

Fresh air never did any one any liarm, and 
if it were for no other reason than for the good 
of the cook's health, windows in the kitchen 
ought to be opened as regularly as in any 
other part of the house. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 39 



ON COOKING IN GENERAL. 

If the cook be inexperienced, she ought to 
begin by carefully weighing all the proportions 
given in each recipe ; but by degrees, as she 
improves and gains confidence, she will be 
able in a great measure to dispense with 
scales. Indeed it is as well that she should 
accustom herself as much as possible to tell by 
sight the weights of many things, and to be 
so familiar with short ways of measuring that 
time may be saved without departing from 
exactness. 

It would be impossible to give an accurate 
table of measurements which would save the 
cook being obliged to use the scales, but a 
few general rules will be found useful. 



40 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

A tablespoonful of flour' weighs 1^ ounce. 

A tablespoonful of salt, 1 ounce. 

A tablespoonful of Scotch barley, 1 ounce. 

A teaspoonful of gix)und pepper, \ of an ounce. 

A teaspoonful of celery seed, \ of an ounce. 

A teaspoonful of ground allspice, half a quarter of 

an ounce. 
A middle-sized onion, 4 ounces, or :|^ of a pound. 
A middle-sized carrot, 5 ounces. 
A middle-sized head of celery, \\ ounce. 

Pinches of things are more diflScult to 
describe. Every cook ought to find out for 
herself, once for all, how much is contained 
in her pinch, and keep that in mind. A 
woman with broad thumbs will take up 
twice as much in a pinch, and that quite 
unconsciously, as will the woman of taper 
fingers. It makes all the difference to the in- 
valid whether the pinch of salt in his cup of 
beef-tea be a large pinch or a small one. Small 
pinches of salt are about one sixteenth part of 
an ounce, and large ones about one quarter. 
The cook must find out for herself if the quan- 



CONYALEaCENT COOKERY, 41 

tit J which she lifts between her finger and 
thumb comes between these two measures. 

In severe illnesses, where it is important 
to keep up the strength, beef-tea is the most 
valuable form of nourishment. It can be made 
so very strong — so strong as to be literally the 
extract of the meat— that, with little fatigue 
from swallowing to the patient, a great amount 
of nourishment can be given. 

Miss Nightingale speaks rather slightingly 
of the advantages of beef-tea — so does she of 
arrowroot and many other things which are 
found to be of value in the sick-room ; but Dr. 
Christison and many other equally celebrated 
authorities are decidedly in favour of it. 

Before entering on the various recipes for 
making food for invalids, a few remarks must 
be made upon first principles which ought to be 
observed. 

The best beef for soup or for beef-tea is 
taken from the leg, extending from the shin 
and including the rump; the upper parts of 



42 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

the shoulder, known as gravy beef, are also very 
generally employed. 

Meat for beef tea must be perfectly fresh. 

Have a good but slow fire — good enough 
not to require to be replenished for an hour or 
two, but not so strong as to hurry the boiling. 

Cover the pot closely. 

As it comes to the boil remove all the 
scum which comes to the top ; do not allow the 
fat to boil through, but skim it off. When 
meat^comes to the boil, it should be drawn to 
the side, and allowed to simmer very slowly. 

If vegetables are to be added to the soup, 
they should not remain in the pot a minute 
longer than necessary to be well cooked, as 
thiey will otherwise absorb some of the flavour 
of the broth ; a fact easily proved by tasting 
them when they have thus been allowed to 
linger in the broth after their proper cooking. 
It will then be found that they have taken 
much of the richness of the broth, to the great 
loss of the broth itself* 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 43 

In spring and summer, vegetables, being 
tender, cook more rapidly; it is therefore 
necessary to make proper allowances for tbe 
difference of seasons. 

If it be desired to flavour the soup with 
herbs, the best way is to tie them up in what 
Trench people call a faggot. With them the 
term is confined to a bunch of parsley, thyme, 
and bay leaves. To one handful of parsley 
there ought not to be more than one sprig of 
thyme and one bay leaf. Should, however, 
the bay leaf be objected to, marjoram, sage, 
and mint may be tied up with the parsley. 
Wash the parsley, place the thyme and bay 
leaf in the midst of it, and fold down the 
extremities of the parsley to enclose the other 
herbs. Tie it round with string, and trim it, 
so as none of the leaves shall break off in the 
pot. A properly made faggot ought to be 
about three inches long. 

The proper management of the fire is a 
most essential part of cooking. For roasting. 



44 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

fresh coal must be put upon the fire, and it 
must be thoroughly lighted and throwing out 
heat before the meat is put before it. 

For broiling, on the contrary, the fire should 
be made of cinders, which ought to be put on 
the fire at least a quarter of an hour before the 
chop, or steak, or fowl is to be done, so that the 
cinders shall be clear and quite free from smoke. 

N.B. — Great care must be taken of cinders : 
they are most valuable to the cook, especially 
to one who has to cook for sick people. 

Vegetables ought, if possible, to be gathered 
early in the morning of the day on which they 
are to be dressed. 

They ought to be washed at once, all the 
coarse, faded, and dead leaves picked off and 
thrown away. An hour before they are to be 
cooked, they must be put into a pan of cold 
clean water, with a little salt in it. This will 
free the vegetables from both insects and dirt. 

But remember carefully to drain off this 
salt water from the vegetables before putting 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 45 

them into the saucepan to boil, or the boiling 
will be too long kept back, and they will thus 
be deprived of their nice green colour. 
Remember also to boil them in plenty of water ; 

LET THE WATEK BOIL FAST WHEN THEY ARE PUT 

IN, and let it continue to boil fast till they 
begin to sink, and are quite tender, which are 
signs of their being done. 

To assist in preserving their greenness, it 
is usual to throw a small quantity of baklug 
soda into the saucepan with them; but this 
is a relic of barbarism never to be practised in 
a house where invalids are, as ifc makes the 
water in which vegetables have been boiled 
smell offensively* 

Do not let vegetables he overdone, or their 
colour will be spoiled. 

Whenh cooTced, let them be carefully strained ; 
do not allow them to remain in the water a 
minute after they are off the fire, or they will 
lose their colour, beauty, and flavour. Throw 
away the water in which they have been boiled 
immediately. 



46 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 



RECIPES, &C. 

EXTRACT OF BEEF. 

Take one pound of lean beef, cut it up into 
small pieces, each about as large as a dice, put 
the meat into a bottle or jar with a little salt. 
Tie a piece of bladder over the neck of the bottle, 
or cork it closely. Put the bottle into a saucepan 
of cold water, and put the saucepan on a slow 
fire. As soon as the water boils, set the sauce- 
pan in some part of the fire which will keep 
the water boiling, but no more, and as the 
water in the saucepan boils away, fill up with 
hailing water. At the end of four or five hours 
the meat will have discharged all its juice^ 
which ought to be drawn ofiF, strained through 
a piece of muslin, and left to cooL Any fat 



CONVALESCENT COOKER J. 47 

will then harden on the top, and can be re- 
moved. 

All beef-tea or extract is better when made 
the day before it is required, and then warmed 
up. 

EXTRACT OF BEEF. 

(another.) 

Take one pound of rump steak, mince it 
like sausage meat, and mix it with one pint of 
cold water. Place it in a pot at the side of 
the fire to heat very slowly. It may stand two 
or three hours before it is allowed to simmer, 
and then let it boil gently for fifteen minutes. 
Skim and serve. The addition of a small tea- 
spoonful of cream to a teacupful of this beef 
renders it richer and more nourishing. Some- 
times it is preferred when thickened with a 
little flour or arrowroot. 



48 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 



RAW BEEF-TEA. 

(fob typhoid feyes.) 

Two ounces of lean gravy beef, two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water. Chop the meat very 
fine ; let it stand a quarter of an hour in the 
water, then pour off the liquid. Make no 
more than this at one time as it will not keep. 



BEEF-TEA. 

This is not so strong as the extract. 

Have the meat cut without fat and bone, 
and choose a nice fleshy piece. Cut it into small 
pieces about the size of hazel-nuts, and put it 
into a clean saucepan. To each pound of meat 
add a quart of cold water and a salt-spoon- 
ful of salt. Put the saucepan on the fire and 
bring the soup to boiling-point, carefully skim- 
ming it before it boilsy to remove fat and scum. 
Allow it to simmer very slowly for two hours, 
until the quart' of water shall have boiled down 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 49 

to a pint. Strain it, and put it away until it is 
cold, and before wanning it again remove any 
fat wtich may be on the surface. In heating 
for the patient it is well to put the quantity 
required in a cup, and put the cup in a 
saucepan or basin of boiling water. This 
prevents waste in the warming of either beef- 
extract or beef-tea, and it has another advan- 
tage : if the patient should be asleep when 
the beef-tea is ready, it can be kept hot, and 
yet ready at a minute's notice. 

K the patient be sufficiently convalescent to 
take beef-tea which has been flavoured with 
vegetables, greater variety of taste can be 
given. There are several ways of making this 
kind of beef-tea, or rather soup. 

botee's recipe. 

Ingredients. — 1 lb. of solid beef; 1 oz. of 
butter ; one clove ; two button onions or half a 
large one, one saltspoonful of salt, one quart of 
water. 

s 



60 CONVALESCJENT COOKERT. 

Cut the beef into very small pieces, put it 
into a stewpan with the butter, clove, onion^ 
and salt ; stir the meat round over the fire for 
a few minutes until it produces a thin gravy, 
then add the water, and let it simmer gently 
from half-an-hour to three-quarters, skimming 
off every particle of fat. When done, strain 
through a sieve, and put it by in a cool place 
until requiredr The same, if wanted quite 
plain, is done by merely omitting the vege- 
tables, salt, and clove ; the butter cannot be, 
objectionable, as it is taken out in skimming. 

One pound of beef ought to make a pint of 
beef-tea. If the meat be boiled a little more' 
than three-quarters of an hour, it can be taken 
out, pounded, and spiced, and then potted; 
potted meat is an excellent breakfast dish, and 
makes admirable sandwiches for luncheon. 

Francatelli, a famous cook, recommends bfeef- 
tea to be boiled very fast for half-an-hour, ' 
stirring it occasionally, and then taken up and 
strained through a bit of muslin« 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 61 



gouppe's broth a la minute 



is not economical, but is supposed to be made 
quickly. 

Take one pound of lean beef, half a fowl with 
the bones taken out, pound together in a 
mortar, add a quarter of an ounce of salt, put 
it in a stewpan with two and a half pints of 
cold water, stir over the fire till boiling, then 
add carrots, onions, leeks, and celery, the 
whole cut fine; boil for half-an-hour, strain, 
and serve. 

liRS. beeton's beep-tea. 

Mrs. Beeton gives a recipe for * beef-tea in 
haste,' which is much better than GoufiK's. 

Take one pound of lean beef. With a sharp 
knife scrape the beef into fibres ; this should be 
5one on a board* Put the scraped meat into a 
delicately clean saucepan, and pour half-a-pint 
(Jf boiling water on it j cover closely and set by 

82 



52 COXVALESCEKT COOKERY, 

the fire for ten minutes, strain into a teacup, 
place in a basin of ice-cold water, remove all 
fat from the surface, pour into a warmed cup, 
and serve. When required of greater strength, 
use half the above quantity of water, or even 
less, when the patient is able to take a spoonful 
only at a time. 



TEGETMEIER'S MUTTON BROTH. 

Two pounds of scrag of mutton put into a 
saucepan with three pints of water and a little 
salt. Let it simmer gently two hours. Strain 
through a sieve ; when cold remove every par- 
ticle of fat ; it can be thickened with arrow- 
root or ground rice. The mutton can be 
eaten by the family with parsley and butter. 



FRANCATELLrS MUTTON BROTH. 

Chop a pound of scrag end of neck of 
mutton into small pieces, and put it into a 
saucepan, with two ounces of barley and rather 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. • 68 

better than a quart of water ; set the broth to 
boil gently on the fire, skim it well, season with 
a little salt, thyme, parsley, and a couple of 
turnips ; the whole to boil very gently on the 
side of the hob for an hour and a half; at the 
end of this time serve some of the broth, 
strained through a clean piece of muslin or a 
fine strainer into a basin. If the patient is 
allowed to have the broth with some of the 
meat and barley in it, give it ; also a little bit 
of nice brown toast. 



MUTTON BEOTH, QUICKLY MADE. 

One or two chops from a neck of mutton ; 
one pint of water; a small bunch of sweet 
herbs made in a faggot ; a quarter of an onion ; 
pepper and salt to taste. 

Cut the meat into small pieces ; put them 
into a saucepan with the bones, but no skin or 
fat; add the other ingredients; cover the 
saucepan, and bring the water quickly to boil 
Take the lid oflF and continue the rapid lolling 



H CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

for twenty minutes, skimming it well during thd 
process ; strain the broth into a basin ; if there 
should be any fat left on the surface, remove it 
by laying a piece of thin blotting-paper on the 
top; the greasy particles will adhere to thQ 
paper, and so free the preparation from them. 
To an invalid nothing is more disagreeable 
than broth served with a quantity of fat float- 
ing on the top ; to avoid this it is always better 
to allow it to get thoroughly cool, the fat can 
then be so easily removed. This quantity will 
only make half-a-pint of broth. 



ANOTHER KIND OF MUTTON BROTH. 

(Or it may he made with beef, or with veal, or with the 

three combined.^ 

Take one pound of meat, free from the bone, 
and well washed in boiling water ; then dry it in 
a cloth, and put it on the fire with a quart of 
water : when it boils skim it as clear as pos- 
sible ; then add a little more cold water, which 
will make the scum rise afresh 5 then take it 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 56 

joAF, and season with parsley root (a piece about 
the size of two fingers), a small carrot, an onion 
X)r two, a blade of mace, and about two ounces 
x)f clean bacon, if the palate of the invalid be 
strong enough to bear this addition ; boil it an 
hour and a half at least, till the meat is tender ; 
then strain it. 

This recipe is given on the authority of 
J, H. Walsh, Esq., r.E.C.S., assisted by a 
committee of ladies; but the advantage of first 
washing the pieat in boiling water is questioned 
by many authorities equally to be relied upon. 



CALPS-FOOT BROTH. 

Stew two calf's feet in three pints of water, 
or two pints of water and one of new milk, 
with a small bit of lemon-peel, very gently, 
until the liquid is boiled down to a pint and a 
half, very carefully removing any scum which 
rises to the surface. Set it by in a basin until 
quite cold, then take off every particle of fat. 



56 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

Warm up for the patient about half-ar-pint of 
tlie broth^ adding a little bit of butter about as 
large as a nut^ a small lump of sugar, and a very 
small quantity of grated nutmeg. Take it ofi 
the fire, add the yolk of an egg which has pre- 
viously been well beaten, stir the mixture over 
the fire until it thickens, but do not allow it to 
boil again after the egg is added, or it will 
curdle, and the broth will be spoiled, 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Take half a fowl, or the inferior joints of a 
whole one ; make up a bunch of sweet herbs in 
A f(^99Qt 9 a^d a blade of mace, half an onion, 
salt to taste, ten peppercorns. Put the fowl 
into a saucepan with all the ingredients and a 
quart of water; simmer gently for an hour and 
a half, carefully skimming the broth well. 
When done, strain, and put by in a cool place 
until wanted ; then take all the fat off the top, 
warm up as much as may be required, and serve 
with a little toast. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 67 



OHIOKEN EXTRACT. 

Cut the chicken or fowl into seven or eight 
pieces; that is to say, cut off the legs, the 
wings, the breast, and break up the body into 
two or more pieces. Put them into a soup- 
digester or close stewpan, with a quaint of water 
(if it be a large fowl) and a little salt. If only 
a chicken, a pint or pint and a half of water 
will be enough. Bring it to boil, carefully 
skimming it, and then keep it simmering by 
the side of the fire for an hour. By that time 
the flesh will be done to rags. Take the pieces 
out of the saucepan, and pound flesh and bones 
thoroughly in a mortar. Put the pounded 
fragments back into the saucepan, bring it 
again to boil, and allow it to simmer for another 
hour. Strain the liquid, which will have boiled 
down to about one-fourth, carefully through a 
piece of muslin, and when cold it will be in a 

jelly. 

If very strong nourishment be required, mix 



58 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

a spoonful of beef extract with two of the 
chicken extract, but be careful to ascertain 
whether the digestion of the patient will bear 
the beef or must have the chicken alone. To 
give chicken broth a little more flavour, and 
make it not quite so tasteless, the chicken may 
be roasted for fifteen or twenty minutes first, 
but by this the strength of the broth is much 
diminished, 

PRANCATELLl'S CHEAP KIND OP CHICKEN BEOTH. 

In large towns, fowls' necks, gizzards, and 
feet may be purchased, which will make an 
excellent broth for those who cannot afford to 
have a whole fowl. . 

Put about sixpence worth of necks and 
feet into a cloth, and pound them, so as to 
thoroughly break all the bones. Chop the 
gizzards into small pieces ; put all together into 
a saucepan with a quart of water, and set it on 
to boil, keeping it carefully skimmed. Add a 
little thyme, some parsley, a little salt, a very 



VONVALESCENT COOKERY^ 59 

flmall onion, and a little celery, and simmer 
gently for an hour. Strain the liquor, and put 
it back into the saucepan with two ounces of 
sago, and let it boil gently for a quarter of an 
hour, 

Instead of the sago, a little rice, which has 
been previously boiled in either milk or water, 
may be added, in which case the second boiling 
of the liquid, after straining, is quite un* 
necessary. 



BROILING AND FRYING. 

When a sick person recovers so far as to be 
past the stage for beef-tea, and able to eat a 
little solid food, the doctor generally orders for 
him a little broiled fowl or a mutton-chop. 
What curious, greasy, yet burned morsels come 
up to the sick-room, looking so unpleasant that 
even a person in good health, and perhaps at 
the time exceedingly hungry, would not like to 
swallow them ! 



60 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

If a cook cannot manage to broil meat well, 
slie ought to fry it, which is less likely to be 
a failure ; but broiling is more highly recom- 
mended for weak digestions. 

First, the care of the cook ought to be the 
fire. The French cooks use charcoal, but in 
this country cinders are the substitute. The 
fire must be prepared at least a quarter of an 
hour before it is required ; a layer of cinders 
about an inch and a half thick, spread over the 
hot coals, and left to bum clear. If not per- 
fectly clear at the last moment, a little salt 
thrown oh the fire makes it burn more clearly 
and frees it from smoke. 

The ordinary gridiron is merely a square 
frame of iron, with cross-bars of the same. An 
improved kind is used for steak and chop 
broiling, with the upper surface concave or 
grooved, and all terminating in a hollow in 
the handle, so as to save a little of that 
rich gravy which would otherwise fall into the 
fire. 



CONVALESCEKT COOKERY. 61 

Before using the gridiron — taking care that 
it is very clean — the upper surface, on which 
the meat is to rest, ought to be greased with 
lard, butter, or dripping, to prevent it sticking, 
and it should be set slanting downwards towards 
the hand of the cook. 

The steak or chop, or whatever meat is to 
broiled, is to be put on the gridiron, and con- 
tinually turned every half-minute, moving it 
gently each time it is turned, to avoid leaving 
the marks of the bars on the meat. 

Invalids are rarely allowed to have pepper, 
so salt is all that may be sprinkled over an 
invalid's chop. 

The length of time which meat takes to 
broil varies according to the thickness of the 
meat or the heat of the fire, but some idea may 
be had from the following table, until experi- 
ence teaches the cook. 

A rump steak of about 1 J lb. — ten minutes, 

A fillet steak, rather under \ lb. — seven 
minutes. 



62 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

A mutton chop, trimmed, about 5 oz. — six 
minutes. 

A bread-crumbed mutton cutlet (ought to 
have a slow fire) — about seven minutes. 

A sheep's kidney (brisk fire) — four minuteSr 

A veal chop, about 7 oz. — nine minutes. 

A pork chop, about 7 oz. — nine minutes. 

A bread-crumbed veal or pork chop — about 
eleven minutes. 

A tongs in which to hold the steak or 
chop is an advantage, as the fork with which 
it otherwise must be turned lets the gravy 
escape. 

To fry a chop well a frying basket is almost 
indispensable. The pan should be hot, and the 
dripping or lard in which the basket is held, 
very hot before the meat is put in. Do not' 
try to be economical in the matter of drip- 
ping ; put in enough to almost cover the chop 
or steak. 

If a frying-pan with butter is to be used — 
which, if the patient's appetite be delicate, is" 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 63 

strongly recommended — the fire ought not to 
be too hot, for butter heats faster than fat. 

TO OEUMB A CUTLET OH CHOP 

may be done in one or two different ways. 

French cooks prepare carefully a quantity 
of bread crunibs at a time, which is not a bad 
plan if they are likely to be required soon again, 
for it frequently happens that at the time for 
cooking not a scrap of stale bread can be had 
for love or money. 

Put the bread in a cloth, of which take up 
the four comers in one hand, and with the 
other rub the bread to break it up small ; then 
pass it through a wire sieve, dry in a very cool 
oven, and put by in a closed box for use. 

For invalids the greatest care should be 
given to making food look as well as possible ; 
the appetite is often aroused by the sight of a 
daintily-dressed chop, when ten minutes before 
the patient had declared he could not eat a 
morsel. 



64 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

The chop or cutlet must be nicely trimmed, 
and any superfluous fat removed, but a little 
should be left on during cooking, as it prevents 
the meat becoming too dry. 

Melt some butter in the pan, and dip the 
chop in it, so as to cover both sides equally. 
Lay it on a dish and sprinkle it neatly with 
the fine bread crumbs, in which a little salt, 
has been mixed, and, if permitted to the pa- 
tient, a little white pepper. A raw egg beaten 
up is daintier than melted butter. 

Put the cutlet into the pan in which is the 
remainder of the melted butter, and fry it. 
The fire for a crumbed cutlet must be slow, 
and seven minutes on an average will be long 
enough, dividing the time between the two 
sides of the cutlet, about four minutes to the 
first, and three to the second after the cutlet 
has been turned. 



COXVALESCEXT COOKERY. 66 



ANOTHEE WAY OP BEEADING CHOPS AND 

CUTLETS, 

Instead of dipping the chop in melted butter, 
as in the foregoing recipe, a mixture is made 
of eggs, oil, water, salt, and a little pepper. 

Beat up an egg very well, add a small tea- 
spoonful of fresh olive oil, a teaspoonful of 
water, a very small pinch of salt, and the same 
of pepper. The water is added to prevent the 
breading being too thick. Fry as in the former 
recipe. 



ANOTHER WAY OP BEEADING. 

Separate the yolk from the white of the 
^ggj ^^d having beaten up the yolk, add a 
dessert-spoonful of milk, a little pepper, and a 
little salt. Dip the chop into this mixture, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, and fry in butter or 
lard. 

If the chop is to be broiled instead of frie3, 

p 



$6 COXVAZESCEXT COOKEBT. 

it miuit be dipped into bntter according to 
method the first, and not into the egg mixture. 

To broil fowl for invalids, which is con- 
sidered one of the lightest and most digestible 
modes of dressing, it mnst be cut in halyes — 
divided down the middle — some bntter rubbed 
upon it and a little pepper, bnt the salt is not 
to be put on nntil it has been turned for the 
last time. The inner side must be first done, 
which allows the upper to heat thoroughlj ; it 
is then turned, a little salt sprinkled over it, 
and in a few minutes it is cooked. The giid- 
iron ought to be well rubbed with lard or drip- 
ping before the fowl is put on. 

Some prefer half roasting the fowl first, in 
which case it ought first to be cut in quarters, 
then roasted, then broiled. 

If a young chicken, it must not be roasted, 
but altogether done on the broiling-iron. 



CONVALESCEXT COOKERY, 67 



ROASTING. 

Unless the fire be suitable for roasting meat, 
the result will be a hardened sodden mass of 
meat, indigestible for people in good health, 
therefore most of all unsuitable for invalids. 
While a fire for broiling should be chiefly made 
with cinders, a fire for roasting must be made 
with fresh coals, be evenly lighted before the 
meat is put before it, and not allowed to get 
low until the meat is quite done. A few small 
bits of coal added from time to time will keep 
the heat even. 

Avoid allowing any draught to pass between 
the fire and the screen ; it will retard the cook- 
ing process and harden the meat. 

The time which meat or fowls will take to 
cook is so much modified by circumstances that 
it is impossible to lay down absolute rules, but 

r 2 



68 COXVALESCEXT COOKERY. 

some idea may be gathered from the following 
table. 

Before taking roasted meat off the spit it 
should be ascertained whether it is done or not, 
as to put the spit through it a second time is 
ruinous to the meat, allowing the gravy to 
escape ; and meat which has been sent to table 
underdone cannot be recooked unless by treat- 
ing it as if it were cold meat. 

To ascertain if meat be fully roasted, draw 
it back from the fire and press the fleshiest part 
with the finger. If the cooking be perfect the 
flesh will yield to the finger ; if not, there will 
be a little resistance. For fowls or game, exa- 
mine the leg ; if the flesh yield and is ready to 
come away from the bone, the cooking is suflS- 
cient. There are small jets of steam to be seen 
coming from the meat at the side next the fire 
when it is nearly done. 



COXVA LESCEXT, CO OKER Y. 1 9 

TIME FOB BOASTING. 

A piece of beef wei*jliing 7 lbs. — one Lour 
and three-quarters. 

A leg of mutton, 7 lbs.— an hour and three- 
quarters. 

Neck or loin of veal, 3 lbs. — fifty minutes. 

A turkey, 8^ lbs.— an hour and three- 
quarters. 

Small turkey, 3 or 4 lbs. — forty-five minutes. 

Duck — 20 minr4tes to 25. 

Capon, 4 lbs. — 50 minutes. 

Fowl, 3 lbs.— 30 minutes. 

Pigeon — 15 minutes. 

Pheasant — 35 minutes. 

Partridge or woodcock — 15 minutes. 

Larks— 6 minutes (brisk fire). 

Grouse — 20 minutes. 

Hare — an hour and half. 

Leveret — an hour. 

Snipe— 15 minutes. 

Plovers— 10 minutes. 

Rabbit (small wild)— .15 minutes. 



70 CONVALESCEM COOKERY, 

The cook must use her own judgment, and 
calculate upon the strength of the fire and the 
size of what is to be cooked. These are only 
general rules. 

When meat is very fat it is unnecessary to 
put lard or dripping into the pan which is 
underneath the meat, as what drops from the 
joint is enough for basting, but on no account 
must the outside of the meat be allowed to get 
dry or scorched, or all the juice of the meat 
will either escape or dry up. 

A bottle-jack is generally used for roasting, 
and if mounted on a frame with a tin screen 
behind, so much the better — the meat will be 
sooner and better done. If there is no jack, a 
small hank of common worsted is used, as a 
woollen cord is more easily kept turning round. 
Suspend the meat from the string, and hang it 
up before the fire. If a spit is used, let it be 
carefully wiped before it is passed through the 
meat, or it will leave a black stain. The spit 
must not be run through the prime parts ; in 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 71 

Bucli joints as necks, &c., it may enter two 
bones from the end, and run up the back till 
it reaches the other end. 

At first put the meat at a good distance 
from the fire, and as the inner part gets hot, 
bring it nearer. 

Do not put any salt on the meat until it is 
taken from the fire, as salt draws out the 
gravy. 

Basting is to take up the fat which is in 
the pan under the meat, in a ladle or large 
spoon, and empty it over the meat. This ought 
to be done at least once in every five minutes 
from the time the meat has grown hot until it 
is taken from the fire and served. The meat 
must be frequently turned. 

Veal, poultry, and game must be basted 
with clarified dripping or lard or butter, which 
must be put into the pan. If joints of veal 
be not fat, or if it be desired to make fowls look 
well, they must be covered with a sheet of 
white paper to keep them from scorching. 



72 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

which is not removed until the meat is three- 
quarters done. 

Fowls look nice if, when the paper is re- 
moved, some very fine bread crumbs are sprinkled 
over them, or a little flour, and then allowed to 
brown before the fire. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 73 



BOILING. 

The most important rule in boiling is, when 
the water has once boiled, never to allow it to 
go oflF the boil until the meat or vegetable be 
finished. If it be necessary, in consequence of 
the water boiling away, to add more, it ought 
to be lolling water, not cold nor tepid, nor even 
nearly boiling. 

The next rule is to pay attention, especially 
in boiling meat, to remove any scum which 
may rise to the top of the water. Before the 
water reaches boiling point, after the meat is 
put in, is the time for this, as, if the scum is 
allowed to boil with the meat, the taste as well 
as the look of the meat is affected by it. 

Never allow anything to boil over ; never 
allow water in which meat is, to boil quickly, 
as it will harden the meat. 



74 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

For butcher's meat, vegetables, and salted 
provisions, soft water is preferable to hard. 

For fresh fish, salt water, or, if it can be pro- 
cured, sea-water ; if not, hard water is more de- 
sirable than soft. 

Never stint the water when boiling meat, 
and as it boils away add more, but be sure 
what you add is at boiling point. The joint 
should be covered, and allowing about a quart 
of water to each pound of meat in the joint is 
generally sufficient. 

To young cooks it is always a puzzle whether 
things to be boiled are to go into cold water or 
into boiling. In the case of a leg of mutton, 
the very best authorities differ from each other; 
but vegetables generally abide by the same 
rules. 

Into cold water are put all kinds of salt 
meat, salt fish, some kinds of fresh fish, and 
root vegetables — except very young potatoes, 
which are put into boiling water. 

Into boiling water are put all green vege- 



CONYALESCENT COOKERY, 75 

tables, except artichokes, cabbage, beans, peas, 
vegetable marrow, brocoli, asparagus, and sea- 
kale. 

Into boiling water also must be put all shell- 
fish, besides herrings, soles, skate, mackerel, 
and all crimped fish. All kinds of puddings, 
whether of paste, batter, or rice, except plain 
boiled rice, which ought to be put into cold 
water. 

To tell when meat is boiled enough, it will 
look plump and shrink away from the bone. 

When vegetables are done enough they sink 
to the bottom of the water. 

When fish is done enough the eyeball falls 
out, and the fins are easy to pull away ; but 
care must be taken not to separate them from 
the fish, as of some kinds they are the daintiest 
part. 

Beef is rarely given to invalids boiled, as in 
that case it is slightly salted, therefore imfit 
for delicate people. Boiled mutton is, however, 
both light and nutritious — much more easily 



76 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

digested than roast mutton. The time allowed 
is generally twenty minutes for each pound of 
meat, some only allow fifteen minutes ; but the 
great art is in letting it boil very slowly. 

With respect to the question of whether 
mutton should be put into cold or into boilmg 
water, the following are valuable authorities for 
the diflferent modes : — 

Prancatelli would put it into cold water, let 
the water come slowly to the boil, taking not 
less than forty minutes, and then boiling slowly, 
very slowlj^ until done. 

Mrs. Jewry, author of the * Model Cookery 
Book,' is of the same opinion. 

The Pinchley books, published under the 
sanction of the Baroness Burdett Coutts for 
the Whitelanda Training Schools, lay it down 
that tepid water is the correct thing. 

GouflK, no mean authority, is in favour of 
salted boiling water. 

In the * Household Manuals,' by Georgiana 
Hill, boiling water is enjoined. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 77 

Mrs. Beeton is also in favour of boiling 
water for the first plunge, but she would then 
draw the pot back and allow the water to cool 
sufficiently for the hand to bear being put in, 
and then simmered gently for two and a 
quarter hours. 

But Walsh seems, in following Baron 
Liebig's instructions, to have found the golden 
mean between these various methods. The 
meat may not be quite so tender as by the 
boiling water method, but the juices are retained 
in the meat. 

Liebig immerses the meat for five minutes 
in boiling water, then either lowers the tem- 
perature of the water by adding some cold, or 
removes the meat to another vessel containing 
water of the same heat recommended by Mrs. 
Beeton, and boiling it slowly until done. 

It is, however, doubtful whether five minutes 
is not too long a time to keep the meat in 
boiling water. The object of putting it in is 
to coagulate or harden the surface, and so keep 



78 COXVALESCENT COOKERY: 

in the juices, but it will be found that two or 
even one minute will do this quite eflfectually, 
and very reliable authorities recommend that 
it should then be placed in cold, not tepid, 
water. 

In boiling meat the lid of the pot or sauce- 
pan must be tept closely on, unless when lifted 
to remove the scum which rises to the top of 
the water. 

In boiling vegetables the lid must be re- 
moved as soon as the water boils after putting 
in the vegetables. 

Fowls are to be put into boiling water. The 
slower they boil, the whiter and plumper they 
will be. 

The time which vegetables require to boil 
may be roughly calculated as follows : — 

Carrots — one hour. 

Turnips — forty minutes. 

Parsnips — one hour. 

Cabbage — 20 minutes to half-an-hour. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 79 

Green peas (young) — 10 minutes. 

„ (old) — 15 minutes. 

French beans (young) — 10 or 12 minutes. 

,^ (old) — 20 minutes. 

Sea-kale — 15 to 20 minutes. 
Brocoli (small) — 10 to 15 minutes. 
„ (large) — 20 to 25 minutes. 
Cauliflower (small) — 12 to 15 minutes. 
„ (large) — 20 to 25 minutes. 

Celery (stewed) — 20 to 25 minutes. 
Jerusalem artichokes — 20 minutes. 
Spinach — 10 to 15 minutes. 
Vegetable marrow — 20 minutes. 
Asparagus — 10 to 15 minutes. 
Onions — 40 minutes. 
Beans — 15 minutes. 



80 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 



FISH. 

Fisli is either boiled, broiled, or fried for 
invalids. The elaborate modes of dressing 
adopted by French cooks are better calculated 
for people in health. 

Freshwater fish is improved by being soaked 
in salted water for some hours previous to 
being dressed. In every case it ought to be very 
well washed, even after being prepared by the 
fishmonger. 

The smaller the quantity of water used in 
boiling fish the better, as much water m3kes 
it taste insipid. 

In boiling, if practicable, have a strainer 
whereon to place the fish in the saucepan. 

Some kinds of fish may be skinned ; turbot 
should retain the skin. 

Have the water in the fish-kettle before 
putting in the fish. Pouring the water on the 
fish will break it. 

The time which fish will require to boil 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 81 

varies with the size. Experience alone will 
teach. 

Eough calculation of the time which fish 
will take in boiling, counting from the time the 
water boils : — 

Brill — 10 to 15 minutes. 

Cod, head and shoulders — 30 minutes, more 
or less. 

Tail end — 20 minutes, more or less. 

Turbot, weighing 4 or 6 lbs. — 20 to 30 
minutes. 

Flounders — simmer for 5 minutes. 

Haddock — 15 to 30 minutes. 

Mackerel — 10 minutes. 

Salmon — allow 8 minutes to each lb. 

Skate — 30 to 60 minutes. 

Sole — 7 minutes for a medium-sized pair. 

Whiting — 6 minutes. 

Boiled fish is to have melted butter served 
up with it (that is, at the same time) in a small 
tureen (see page 119), not poured over it. 



82 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

Cod may be cut into slices and broiled. It 
may be crumbed also, and fried like a cutlet. 

Flounders may be fried and crumbed like 
cutlets, but the crumbing must not be done 
until the lard or butter is melted and the pan 
ready for the fish, for before the fish is dipped 
into the egg or mixture it must be rubbed as 
dry as possible with a cloth, or it will stick to 
the pan, and the unhappy cook will be driven 
to despair on finding she is unable to turn the 
fish without it falling to pieces. 

The same rule applies to all fish which is 
fried. 

Mackerel is best broiled. 

Herrings are best broiled ; a little oatmeal 
sprinkled over them, instead of bread crumbs, 
improves the flavour. 

TIME BEQUIEED F0£ FfiTINa FISH. 

Cod cutlets — seven to ten minutes. 
Salmon cutlets — five to ten minutes. 
Flonnders — five to ten minutes. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 83 

Mackerel (to broil) — ten minutes. 
Plaice — five to ten minutes. 
Skate (small) — ten minutes. 
Soles — five to ten minutes. 
Whiting (to broil) — five minutes. 



g2 



84 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 



QMAE. 

To enter on the subject of game, and how 
it ought to be dressed, would be to go beyond 
the scope and intention of the present work. 
Those who can afford to procure it for in- 
valids are generally of a class who can have 
access to larger works, where luxurious dishes 
are the rule and not the exception. A few 
words may, however, be said of some kinds, to 
enable the young student to compare the time 
required for cooking, and the general character 
of game as food, with a view to the enlarge- 
ment of her ideas. 

Grouse should have the heads twisted under 
the wings and be trussed like fowls. They are 
generally roasted before a brisk fire, basted 
with fresh butter, and sent to table with good 
brown gravy and some bread crumbs fried a 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 85 

beautiful brown, and placed in little heaps round 
them on the dish. 

Pheasants are also roasted, and basted with 
butter ; rich gravy in the dish and bread sauce 
in a tureen. From half-an-hour to forty 
minutes. 

Partridges ought to be kept for from two 
days to a week after being shot. To be roasted 
for twenty minutes, or until the gravy begins 
to run out. 

Woodcocks also require twenty minutes' 
roasting. 

Snipe will be quite enough done in a quarter 
of an hour. 

Plovers only require ten minutes. 

Teal will cook in from nine to fifteen 
minutes. 

Widgeon, if preferred to be well done, must 
have twenty minutes ; if not, fifteen will be 
enough. 

Game ought not to be washed, but rubbed 
with a cloth. 



86 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 



RABBITS. 

To choose a rabbit for boiling, see that it 
has smooth and sharp claws, in which case it is 
young. If the claws are blunt and ragged, 
and the ears dry and tough, you may be sure 
the animal is old — too old for cooking for an 
invalid. As Gouffe said of the fowls, you 
will never do any good with an old rabbit. 

After it has been emptied and skinned, the 
rabbit ought to be very well washed. If there 
still seems any remains of blood lingering 
about it, leave it to soak in water for a quarter 
of an hour. This is necessary, whether it is 
intended to be roasted or stewed, or boiled or 
baked. 

From half-an-hour to three-quarters is 
enough for cooking a rabbit in almost any 
way. 

Like the leg of mutton (page 76), authori- 
ties diBFer as to the boiling of a rabbit. 

Mrs. Beeton would put it into hot water. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 87 

Walsh goes further, and says it must be 
boiIing« 

Georgiaua Hill enjoins cold water, and so 
do several other eminent authorities. 

If it is to be boiled and ready for serving 
iu half-an-hour or three-quarters, hot water or 
boiling must be used. If it is to be stewed 
and served with seasoned gravy or sauce, the 
cold water is then desirable. 



BOILED BABBIT. 

After washing, put it into as much hot 
water as will cover it, boil till tender, which it 
ought to be in half-an-hour or three-quarters. 
As many invalids dislike onion, which is the 
popular accompaniment to boiled rabbit, the 
ingenuity of the cook must provide some other. 
Plain white sauce, or celery sauce, could be 
substituted for the onion, and there are inva- 
lids who would like parsley and butter. 



6$ CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 



STEWED BABBIT. 

To stew a rabbit, if done with care, makes 
a more tempting dish than plain boiUng. 

Cat the rabbit into small joints, and pat 
them into a stewpan. Add (if the appetite of 
the invalid will permit) two small onions, six 
cloves, a very small teaspoonful of chopped 
lemon peel, a bit of butter about as large as a 
walnut, and a little salt. Four in sufficient 
cold water to cover the meat, but no more, and 
stew very slowly, keeping the lid close. At the 
end of half-an-hour, blend a tablespoonful of 
flour and stir it in, and a tablespoonful of 
ketchup. Boil for three or four minutes and 
serve. 



BABBIT FBICASSEE. 



If any of the boiled rabbit (see No. 1) 
remain from the previous day, it can be made 
into a fricassee. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 89 

Cut the meat of the rabbit into neat pieces, 
bone it or not according to fancy, put a little 
butter into astewpan and melt it, and then add 
the meat, shaking it well. Have ready a little 
strong gravy, which put in with aUttle nutmeg 
and a sprig of parsley and a very small bit of 
thyme, tied together. A very small scrap of 
onion is an improvement. Stew for ten 
miuutes, and put a teaspoonful of flour, blended, 
in to thicken the gravy ; serve. 



ANOTHER WAT OP HEATING COLD RABBIT. 

As the latter way of fricassying rabbit 
requires a strong gravy as well as a strong 
appetite, it may not always be the method most 
suitable ; in which case put a little milk into 
a stewpan, with a small bit of butter and a 
little salt. If it be salt butter, no salt need be 
added. When the milk is warm put in the 
meat, which may be cut into small pieces, or 
minced according to taste. It must not be 



90 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

allowed to boil, but when hot ought to be 
served. 



FEIED EABBIT. 

This is a very tempting way of dressing 
rabbit. Cut it into neat joints, and either dust 
it over with flour or crumb it like a cutlet, and 
fry in the same way for ten minutes. 

Eabbit being in itself rather insipid, is 
generally served with bacon, and in every 
receipt for dressing it for people in health 
bacon forms an essential feature; so if the 
invalid does not object, a little fried bacon may 
be served up with the boiled rabbit, and in the 
fricassee some bits of bacon may be added, but 
this must be done with caution. 



BABBIT SOUP. 



If the rabbit has been boiled, and the 
invalid eaten as much of the flesh as he feels 
inclined, the cook must turn what remains to 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 91 

account. The flesh must be cut off the bones 
and minced, and the bones broken up small. 
Put into a stewpan the liquor in which the 
rabbit had been boiled, with the minced meat 
and the broken bones. Simmer gently, skim- 
ming carefully, for half-an-hour after it boils, 
and then add an onion, a faggot of parsley, 
thyme and marjoram. A stalk of celery, or, if 
that cannot be had, about a thimbleful of 
celery seed tied up in a bit of muslin, some 
whole white pepper, and a ^ery small bit of 
mace. Simmer for a quarter of an hour longer, 
and then strain. If it be possible, do this the 
day before the soup is to be used. Put this 
stock into a stewpan, and add a teacupful of 
milk. If neither cream nor new milk can be 
had, add to some skim milk a bit of butter as 
large as a hazel-nut. If condensed milk is 
used, a teaspoonful dissolved in a teacupful 
of hailing water is enough. When the stock 
and milk together have boiled, have some 
thickening ready blended. This may be either 



92 CONVALESCENT COOKERT. 

a tablespoonful of arrowroot, or one of com 
flour, or one of good flour. Unless the latter 
be of very good quality, the corn flour is better, 
but bums so easily that the cook is often 
puzzled, if she has other things to do, how to 
keep it continually stirred. With the thicken- 
ing ought to be added a spray of mint, which 
should not remain in the soup for more than 
two minutes or three, and then taken out, A 
little nutmeg is an improvement, but it must 
be very sparingly used, as ought all flavouring, 
so as not to allow the taste of one condiment to 
predominate over another. 



OTHEE WHITE SOUP (lAMB SHANKS). 

The directions for making this soup can be 
applied in several other ways, substituting 
different white stock for that made from the 
remains of the rabbit. 

In many houses it is the habit of the cook 
to throw away the shank end of a leg of lamb, 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 93 

it not seeming to her to be worth the trouble 
of saying. One or two of these despised shanks 
will make a bowl of good stock, which, with the 
addition of the milk and seasoning, and served 
up with some toast, would be an excellent meal 
or two meals for some poor, sick, weak creature. 

Take the shank by the upper end, where it 
has been cut off the leg, and hold the toes for 
a few minutes in red-hot cinders, which will 
cause them to come off. Put the shank into 
boiling water, and the skin will come off, peel- 
ing and turning inside out without the least 
trouble. Break the bone up into small pieces, 
and proceed as in the rabbit sjup. The stock 
will be found on cooling to be a strong jelly, 
exceedingly nutritious. A tablespoonful of 
corn flour or arrowroot will only be enough 
for thickening a small quantity. 

If there is any liquor in the house in which 
lamb has been boiled, it ought, of course, to be 
used for boiling the bones in ; if not, water must 
be substituted. 



94 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

The remains of boiled fowls make a delicate 
soup ; a small quantity of the liquor in which 
ham has been boiled, about a teacupful to every 
quart of other liquid, put on to boil with the 
bones, is a great improvement, provided the 
fat has been carefully removed from it first. 

ANOTHER WAT OP DRESSING BABBITS OE FOWLS. 

Melt some lard in a pan, or butter. Cut up 
the fowl or rabbit into two-inch pieces j dredge 
with flour, and fry. Fry one or two small 
onions and a small bit of bacon. Having all 
together in a stewpan, dredge in about one 
ounce of flour. 

Stir well together over the fire for two or 
three minutes; add some broth or stock and 
a little spice ; stew for twenty minutes. 
Fifteen will be enough for a fowl, if young. 

COLD FOWL. 

It may be heated in a little gravy, and a 
little boiled rice added. The fowl ought to be 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 95 

cut from the bones. The bones of a roast fowl 
broken up and simmered make a good gravy. 

As a general rule, meat -which has been 
dressed a second time is not desirable for 
invalids, being more indigestible and less 
nutritious ; but the poorer people are, and the 
less likely to be able to afford fresh meat every 
day, the more necessary is it that they should 
learn how to re-dress meat in a tempting form. 

Minces, hashes, and fricassees ought never to 
be allowed ta boil, as the meat then hardens. 

Fish may be heated simply in a little white 
sauce (see page 120). Lamb may be done in the 
same way, but it must be minced small. Fowls 
also may be minced and served in the white 
sauce. Veal is rarely given to invalids, being 
more difficult of digestion than other meat. 
But the knuckle, or shank, or coarse parts, will 
boil down into stock, like the rabbit bones or 
lamb shanks. 



96 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 



JELLY. 

CALVES'-FOOT JELLY 

is ordered for invalids, and is an expensive dish. 
Gelatine, which is often substituted for calves' 
feet, has no nourishing properties. The more 
costly kinds of jeUy would be unsuitable in a 
book like this, but cheaper ones may be found 
useful. 

Take two calves' feet and scald them to 
take off the hair ; slit them in two, remove the 
fat between the toes, and wash the feet very 
well in warm water ; put them into a stewpan 
with the above proportion of cold water, bring 
it gradually to boil, carefully removing all 
scum. Boil for six or seven hcurs, strain 
through a sieve into a basin, and put it into a 
cool place to set. When firm, remove all fat 
from the top ; remove the jelly from the sedi- 
ment and put it into a saucepan. To every 
quart add six ounces loaf-sugar, the shells and 
whites of five eggs very well beaten ; stir the 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 97 

ingredients together cold. Set the saucepan on 
the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to 
warm. Let it boil ten minutes after it rises to 
a head, then throw in a teacupful of cold 
water ; let it boil five minutes longer, then take 
the saucepan off, cover it closely, and let it 
remain half-an-hour near the fire. Have a 
flannel bag ready for straining it through; 
wring it out of hot water quite dry, and fasten 
it on a stand or the back of a chair, which 
must be placed near the fire, to prevent the 
jelly stiffening before it runs through the bag. 
Place a basin underneath to receive the jelly ; 
then pour it into the bag, and should it not be 
clear the first time, run it through the bag 
again. 

This stock is the foundation of all jelly. 
Wine and lemon may be added if they can be 
had. 



H 



98 CONVALJESCJSNT COOKERY, 

COW'S-HEEL JELLY. 

This is a less expensive stock, and the coVs 
heel can be eaten by some of the healthy members 
of a family, with mustard and vinegar. The heel 
is first dressed, then boiled like the calves' feet 
for six or seven hours, and strained ; this should 
be done, if possible, the day before the jelly is to 
be made. To a quart of this stock, after re- 
moving the fat, add either a quart of home- 
made wine or a quart of beer, the juice and 
rind of two lemons, a quarter of a pound of 
brown sugar, and eix eggs well beaten. Finish 
like calves'-foot jelly. 

Stout flannel is the best material for a jelly 
bag : the kind called double-mill, used for iron- 
ing-blankets, is recommended. The seam must 
be sewed twice, to ensure its closeness and equal 
filtration. The shape is that of a fool's cap, 
running to a point. It is more comfortable for 
the cook to have the mouth of the bag sewed 
round a hoop ; some people tie it on with strings 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. £9 

sewed to the flannel, and being thus stretched 
open, it is easy to pour in the stock. 



JELLT FOE A CHILD WITH WEAK LIMBS. 

Buy two pounds of shin beef-bone ; it is no 
object to have much meat upon it. Chop it up 
into very small pieces, not larger than a farthing 
piece. Wash and put these into a saucepan, 
with a quart of water and a good pinch of salt. 
Boil very gently for six or eight hours, the 
object being to extract the lime from the bones ; 
then strain through a jelly-bag and set aside in 
a basin. When cool, remove the fat, and if 
the bone of which it was made was without 
meat, the jelly will be quite tasteless, but very 
firm. This may be given to the child, a table- 
spoonful at a time, once, or if necessary twice, a 
day. It may be dissolved in warm milk, or a 
little sugar may be added, to induce the child 
to take it; or it may be melted and poured 
over bread for on infant. 

h3 



100 COXVALESCEXT COOKERY. 

Mutton shanks may be broken np and used 
also in this way, or as foundation for jelly. 

Miss Nightingale has no respect for jelly ; 
nevertheless it has been thought advisable to 
give these receipts for the use of those who 
diflFer from her in opinion. She says : * Jelly is 
another article of diet in great favour with 
nurses and friends of the sick ; even if it could 
be eaten solid, it would not nourish, but it is 
simply the height of folly to take one-eighth of 
an ounce of gelatine and make it into a certain 
bulk by dissolving it in water, and then to give 
it to the sick, as if the mere bulk represented 
nourishment. It is now known that jelly does 
not nourish, that it has a tendency to produce 
diarrhoea, and to trust to it to repair the waste 
of a diseased constitution is simply to starve 
the sick under the disguise of feeding them. 
If one hundred spoonfuls of jelly were given 
in the course of the day, you T^ould have 
given one spoonful of gelatine, which spoonful 
of gelatine has no nutritive power at all.' 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 101 

No one ever said that gelatine had nourish, 
ment in it, but stock made from feet is another 
matter. The drawback to giving patients jelly 
is that it is too cold for the stomach ; conse- 
quently too trying for weakened powers of 
digestion. 

But on other branches of "the food question 
Miss Nightingale has valuable remarks to 
make : — 

*It is an ever-ready saw that an egg is 
equivalent to a pound of meat ; whereas it is 
not at all so. Also, it is seldom noticed with 
how many patients, particularly of nervous or 
bilious temperament, eggs disagree. All pud- 
dings made with eggs are distasteful to them 
in consequence. An egg whipped up with wine 
is often the only form in which they can take 
this kind of nourishment. 

^ Again, if the patient is able to eat meat, it 
is supposed that to give him meat is the only 
thing needful for his recovery; whereas scor- 
butic sores have been actually known to appear 



103 COSVALESCEXT COOKERY, 

among sick persons living in the midst of plenty 
in England, which conld be traced to no other 
source than this, viz. that the nurse, depending 
on meat alone, had allowed the patient to be 
without vegetables for a considerable time ; these 
latter being so hadly cooked^ he always left them 
untouched. Arrowroot is another grand de- 
pendence of the nurse. To mix the patient's wine 
in, as being quickly prepared, it is all very well. 
But it is nothing but starch and water. Flour is 
both more nutritive and less liable to ferment, 
and is preferable wherever it can be used. 

* Again, milk and the preparations from milk, 
are a most important article of food for the 
sick. Butter is the lightest kind of animal fat, 
and though it wants some of the things which 
there are in milk, yet it is most valuable both 
in itself and in enabling the patient to eat 
more bread. Flour, oats, groats, rice, barley — 
in fact, all farinaceous foods — are, as we have 
already said, preferable to all the preparations 
of arrowroot, sago, tapioca, &c., which are 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 103 

unnutritious. Cream, in many long chronic 
diseases, is quite irreplaceable by any article 
whatever. It seems to act in the same manner 
as beef-tea, and to most it is much easier of 
digestion than milk. In fact, it seldom dis- 
agrees. Cheese is not usually digestible by the 
sick, but it has great nourishment in it ; and I 
have seen sick, and not a few either, whoso 
craving for cheese showed how much it was 
needed by them. 

*But if fresh milk is so valuable a food for 
the sick, the least change or sourness in it 
makes it, of all articles, perhaps the most 
injurious 5 diarrhoea is a common result of fresh 
milk allowed to become at all sour. 

* The nurse therefore ought to exercise her 
utmost care in this. In large institutions for 
the sick, even the poorest, the utmost care is 
exercised. Ice is used for this express purpose 
in summer; while the sick person at home 
perhaps never tastes a drop of milk that is not 
sour all through the hot weather, so little does 



104 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

the home nnrse nnderstand the necessity of snch 
care. Yet if you consider that the only drop 
of real nourishment in yonr patient's tea is the 
drop of milk, and how mnch ahnost all English 
patients depend upon their tea, yon will see the 
great importance of not depriving your patient 
of this drop of milk. 

'Butter-milk, a totally different thing, is 
often very useful, especially in fevers. 

' Almost all patients in England, young and 
old, male and female, rich and poor, hospital 
and private, dislike sweet things ; and, while 
I have never known a person take to sweets 
when he was ill who disliked them when he was 
well, I have known many fond of them when in 
health who in sickness would leave off any- 
thing sweet, even to sugar in tea. Sweet pud- 
dings, sweet drinks, are their aversion ; the 
furred tongue almost always likes what is sharp 
or pungent. Scorbutic patients are an excep- 
tion 5 they often crave for sweetmeats and 
jams. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 106 

* The nourishing power of milk, and the pre- 
parations from milk, is very much undervalued ; 
there is nearly as much nourishment in half-a- 
pint of milk as there is in a quarter of a pound 
of meat. But this is not the whole question, 
or nearly the whole. The main question is, 
What can the patient's stomach derive nourish- 
ment from? and of this the patient's stomach is 
the sole judge. 

* Chemistry cannot tell this. The patient's 
stomach must be its ovm chemist. The diet 
which will keep the healthy man healthy will 
kill the sick one. The same beef which is the 
most nutritive of all meat, and which nourishes 
the healthy man, is the least nourishing of al 
food to the sick man, whose half-dead stomach 
can assimilate no part of it ; that is, make no 
food out of it. On a diet of beef-tea health 
men, on the other hand, speedily lose thei 
strength.' 



106 CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 



LIE BIG'S EXTRACT. 

It wiil be observed that during the previous 
pages no mention has been made of Liebig's 
extract, in which so many people repose impli- 
cit faith. The result of the discussions which 
were carried on in the columns of the * Times ' 
newspaper in the autumn of 1872, after the 
condemnation of the extract by a member of the 
British Association, shook the confidence which 
many had previously had in it. That it has 
its virtues no one can question, but that it has 
been greatly overrated is also certain. In 
neighbourhoods where fresh meat for beef-tea 
cannot always conveniently be procured, Liebig's 
extract is a welcome substitute, but to compare 
it with fresh meat in its power to give strength 
is simply absurd. By watching and comparing 
the pulse of the patient, the nurse will soon 
satisfy herself of the correctness of the state- 
ment made by people who have lost their con- 
fidence in it ; viz. that it might stimulate as 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 107 

coflfee does, but cannot be relied upon for 
giving sucli strength as will repair the waste 
which has gone on during the illness of the 
patient. 



108 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

MUTTON OUSTABD FOE BOWEL COMPLAINTS OE 

CONSUMPTIVE OASES. 

Two oz. of mutton shred fine, and half-a- 
draclim of cinnamon or some grated nutmeg, 
and boil in rather more than a pint of milk ; 
when boiled, to be set by the fire till the scum 
rises, which should then be carefully taken oflF. 
Half a teacupful may be given, warm or cold as 
the patient prefers, three or four times a day. 
It should be continued till the complaint is 
quite cured. 



JELLY OB BLANCMANGE OP MEAT. 

Take the bones of a knuckle of veal, well 
scrape all the meat from them, break them up 
small, and stew them four or five hours in two 



COXVALESCENT COOKERY, 109 

quarts of water and strain ; wlien the jelly is 
cold, skim it clear from all fat and sediment ; 
melt it, and flavour with home-made wine and 
a little lemon peel, or with any essence for 
which the patient may have a partiality. If 
for blancmange, the stock must be still more 
reduced, to bear the addition of some milk, fla- 
voured with laurel leaf or vanille and lemon 
peel; the addition of a little wine or brandy 
will of course improve it. 

COW-HEEL BAKED IN MILE. 

Clean well a cow-heel, and put it with two 
quarts of milk into an earthen jar j let it stand 
in a slow oven for five or six hours. The heel 
may be taken and served with a little parsley 
and butter, or eaten with mustard and vinegar 5 
and the milk, which resembles blancmange, 
skimmed when cold, then melted and flavoured 
as in the above recipe. 



no CONVALESCENl COOKERY, 



SOOTHING NOUBISHMENT IN CONSUMPTION. 

Beat lip a tablespoonf al of oatmeal and a 
tablespoonful of honey with the yolk of an 
egg ; pour on it a pint of boiling water ; then 
boil all together for a few minutes. 



ICELAND MOSS JELLT. 

Iceland moss, or, as it is known to some 
people, carrigeen moss, can be had of all che- 
mists. Put four ounces of Iceland moss to boil 
in a quart of water, stirring it the whole time 
it is on the fire ; and when it has boiled about 
three-quarters of an hour add two ounces of 
lump sugar and a glass of white wine ; strain 
the jelly through a bit of muslin into a basin, 
and when it is set firm and cold, let it be giv^en 
to the patient. 

This kind of jelly is most beneficial in cases 
of severe colds, catarrhs, and all pulmonary 
diseases of the lungs and chest. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 111 



ICELAND BLANCMANGE. 

The former recipe, only substituting milk 
for water and omitting the white wine. The 
milk requires some strong flavouring — almonds, 
lemon, or vanilla — as a marine taste often re- 
mains in the moss. The muslin through which 
it is strained must be coarse, or a coarse hair 
sieve will answer. 



ICELAND MOSS AND CUERANT JELLY. 

About four ounces of moss (carrigeen it is 
sometimes called), washed very clean in luke- 
warm water. Put it on to boil slowly in a 
quart of cold water. When the moss is quite 
dissolved — about forty- five minutes ought to 
suffice — strain it on a tablespoonf ul of currant 
jelly, some sugar, and, if preferred, half a tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. Mix well, and 
turn into a mould to cool. This is admirable 
for coughs. 



112 COKVALESCEXT COOKERY. 



OBAPE JELLT. 

The fruit should not be too ripe. Wash, 
remove the stems, and put into a porcelain 
kettle with just enough water to keep from 
burning. Simmer until the grapes are soft, 
then strain through a cloth or flannel bag, and 
to each pint of juice add one pound of sugar. 
Boil twenty minutes, and just before it is done 
add one teaspoonf ul of dissolved gum-arabic to 
each pint. 

GEBMAN JELLT. 

Half a pound of rice flour; quarter of a 
pound of corn flour; mix into a paste with 
cold water. Boil quarter of a pound of red 
currants and one pound of raspberries, squeeze 
through a jellj'^-bag, and sweeten to taste. 
Return the juice to stewpan and boil it again. 
When at boiling-point pour in the paste, mix 
very well, and boil for some time. Turn into 
shapes. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 113 



POBT WINE JELLY. 

One pint of port wine ; one ounce of isin- 
glass ; one ounce of sugar. Put the isinglass 
and sugar into quarter of a pint of water; 
warm till all is dissolved, then add the wine, 
strain through muslin, and set to jelly. An 
excellent way of giving port wine. 

CEANBEBET JBLLT. 

One cup of cold water ; two cups of sugar 
(crushed sugar best) ; three cups of cranberries 
washed and picked. Put all into a porcelain 
or earthenware jar ; cook till the cranberries 
are done. It may be turned into a moHild at 
once, straining to avoid the skins. It ought to 
form a jelly. 

VEGETABLE MAEEOW (PEIED). 

Having peeled and removed the seeds of a 
good-sized vegetable marrow, cut it in strips 
one and a half inches long by three-quarters of 



lU C0XrALE3CEXT COOKERY, 

an inch square. Put these on an inverted 
plate placed in a basin, and strew plenty of 
finely-powdered salt over them. In a couple 
of hours take up the pieces of marrow and dry 
them in a cloth by wringing it at both ends — 
not so hard, however, as to break them. Put 
them in another cloth with flour and shake 
them well, so that each piece is well covered 
with flour. Put them in a f rying-basket and 
plunge it into boiling fat. As soon as the 
strips begin to colour, take them up, drain in 
front of fire, and serve on very hot dish. 



COUGH STEUP. 

Two ounces of gum-arabic, two ounces of 
sugar candy, the juice of one lemon and a 
little of the rind. Mix these in half a pint of 
cold water, and keep in a warm place until the 
gum and candy are dissolved. Stir well oc- 
casionally, then strain and take out the peel. 
A spoonful to be taken occasionally when the 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 115 

cough is troublesome. To medicate this cough 
mixture, half an ounce of syrup of squills, half 
an ounce of ipecacuanha wine. 



DE. DOBELL ON MILK WITH BUM, WHISKT, 

OE BEANDT. 

Put one tablespoon ful of rum, brandy, or 
whisky into half a pint of new milk, and mix 
well by pouring several times from one vessel 
to another. Bilious persons should heat the 
rum before adding it to the milk. 



A SMALL BATTEE PUDDING. 

Beat up in a basin an egg with a large 
tablespoonful of flour and a grain of salt ; add 
by degrees a teacupful of milk, working all 
together vigorously; pour this batter into a 
ready greased inside of a teacup, just large 
enough to hold it; sprinkle a little flour on the 
top, place a small square clean rag on it ; and 

I 2 



116 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

then, with the spread-out fingers of the right 
hand, catch np both cloth and teacup, holding 
them up in order to enable you to gather up 
the ends of the rag tight iu your left hand, 
while with a piece a string held in the right 
hand you tie up the pudding securely, and put 
it on to boil in boiling water for a good half- 
hour. At the end of this time the pudding will 
be done, and should be eaten immediately with 
sugar and a few drops of wine, if allowable and 
procurable. 



A TEACUP BBEAD PUDDING. 

Crumb a piece of stale bread the size of an 
egg into a basin, and four lumps of sugar, and 
a very little nutmeg ; pour half-a-gill of boiling 
milk on these, stir all well together until the 
sugar is melted, then add an egg previously 
beaten. Whip up the whole thoroughly until 
well mixed, pour the mixture into a buttered 
tea-cup, tie it up in a small cloth as directed in 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 117 

the previous recipe, boil twenty minutes, and 
turn out on a plate. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of tapioca into a 
basin with four lumps of sugar, a grain of salt, 
and a lump of sugar lubbed on the rind of a 
lemon ; pour a gill of boiling milk over these 
ingredients, and cover them up with a saucer 
to steep ten minutes ; then add one egg ; beat 
up all together, and boil in a buttered teacup 
tied up in a cloth for nearly half-an-hour ; 
turn out and serve. 



AEEOWEOOT PUDDING. 

Mix a large dessert-spoonful of arrowroot 
with the same quantity of bruised sugar, and a 
teacupf ul of milk, in a clean saucepan ; stir 
this on the fire until it boils, and keep on stir- 
ring it oflP the fire for five minutes, until the 
heat has subsided ; then add an egg, beat up 
and thoroughly mix it into the batter, and 



118 COXVALESCEXT COOKERY, 

then boil the pudding according to the instrnc- 
tions given for the batter pndding. 



SAGO PUDDING. 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of pearl sago, with 
a teaspoonful of hot milk, in a covered basin 
for a quarter of an hour; then add a very 
little grated nutmeg or lemon peel, sugar to 
sweeten, and an egg ; beat all up together till 
thoroughly mixed, and then boil the pudding 
in a buttered teacup as directed in preceding 
cases. 



GBOUND EICE PUDDING. 

Mix a large tablespoonful of ground rice 
with half-a-pint of milk, six lumps of sugar, 
and a very little nutmeg ; stir this in a sauce- 
pan on the fire until it has boiled for five 
minutes ; then mix in an egg, and boil the 
pudding for twenty-five minutes. (Tie up as 
in preceding recipes.) 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 119 



CORN FLOUR PUDDING. 

Mix a good dessert-spoonful of corn flonr 
with half-a-pint of milk, six lumps of sugar, a 
grain of salt, and a very little grated orange- 
peel; stir these on the fire, to boil for five 
minutes, then add one ^gg^ beat up until well 
mixed ; pour this batter into a buttered teacup, 
tie it up in a small cloth, boil it for twenty-five 
minutes, and serve it while hot. 

Should the invalid grow tired of these 
puddings, a change may be made by baking 
instead of boiling them ; but it will be neces- 
sary to bake them in a small dish, if one is 
to be had ; and if nothing better can be found, 
a large saucer will answer. 



MELTED BUTTER. 



Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour to a smooth 
batter with half-a-pint of water; put into a 
saucepan, add two ounces of butter and a 



150 COSVALESCEXT COOKERY. 

small pincli of salt. Keep stirriiig it om way 
tin all the ingiedieiits are melted and perfectly 
fmooth; let the whole boil for a minute or two, 
and senre. 

MELTED BUTTEB WITH KILE. 

To be made bj the directions for the fore- 
going, snbstitnting milk for the water. This 
is the foundation for onion sauce, or oyster 
or celery, as it looks whiter than if made with 
water. In case of onion being used, it must be 
first boiled in water, and when the melted 
butter is made, the onion — chopped after boil- 
ing—is put in. The celery must be done in the 
same way, but unless it is put into the sauce 
immediately after being taken out of the water, 
it will blacken. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

A little sherry and water sweetened with 
soft sugar; or a spoonful of brandy instead of 
sheiTy. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 121 



BIOHEB SAUCE. 



Mix two ounces of flour, the same of butter, 
same of sugar, in a small saucepan by kneading 
with a wooden spoon. Add half-a-pint of water, 
half-a-gill of some kind of spirits, and some 
chopped lemon peel. Stir it over the fire till 
it boils. Pour over the pudding. 



BICB. 

To boil rice plain, without either underdoing 
it or allowing it to burn, is a diflBculty. When 
boiled each grain should be quite distinct one 
from the other, yet each fully cooked. To have 
a saucepan with a close-fitting lid is the first 
essential. To wash the rice very clean, chang- 
ing the water once or twice, is the second. 
Put about three ounces of rice to a pint of cold 
water in a close-fitting stewpan, taking care th^^t 
the water and rice do not more than half fill it, 
and that the rest of the space is left for the rice 



122 COXVALESCEXT COOKERY, 

to swell in. Add about a saltspoonful of salt. 
Pat the stewpan on the fire and bring it to the 
boil ; then take it off, and put the pot, still 
closely covered, near enough to the fire to keep 
hot, but not to boil, nor even simmer. Leave 
it for half-an-hour, and the rice will then be 
cooked. At no stage must it be stirred. 
Straining rice, as often advised in books, is 
decidedly a mistake, as what is allowed to drain 
away contains most of the nourishment. Not 
more water than the rice can absorb ought to 
be put in the stewpan. 



RICE DUMPLINGS. 

Take as much of the boiled rice as when 
kneaded into a paste would envelop two apples. 
Enead it with a spoon in a basin into a smooth 
compact kind of paste, peel two large apples, 
and take out the core, filling the hole left with 
brown sugar, one or two cloves, and a bit of 
cinnamon. Make the rice into two round balls. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 123 

and then roll them out with a rolling-pin to 
the size of a large saucer. Set an apple in the 
midst of each flat of paste, and fold the rice 
round it, purse-shaped. These are the dump- 
lings, which when finished are to be tied in 
buttered cloths and boiled for about three- 
quarters of an hour. The chief difficulty in 
making rice dumplings is to handle the paste 
with ease. Before shaping each one it is well 
to dip the hands in cold water. 

An easier, way of shaping them is to place 
the buttered cloth in a breatfast-cup, spread 
the rice lining, and then put in the apple and 
tie it up ; but the dumplings done in this way 
are never so light as if made by the other 
method. 

BAKED EICE AND APPLES. 

Peel and cut two or three large apples, and 
put them down with a little cold water, some 
brown sugar, and some cinnamon and cloves, 
tied in a piece of muslin, so as to be lifted out 



12i CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 

easily. Stew gently for about ten minutes, and 
then turn them into a flat dish ; a saucer will 
hold quite enough for an invalid. Take some 
of the rice, which has been plain boiled, spread 
it lightly over the apples, and put the dish 
down to bake. 

If cold rice has been used, or the apples 
have been allowed to grow cold, the dish and 
contents must be made quite hot through and 
through, and then the white of an egg, pre- 
viously beaten to a froth, is spread over the 
surface, and without the delay of a moment 
put back into the oven. Care must be taken 
to remove the dish from the oven as soon as it 
is done, and serve at once. To make it richer, 
use the yolk and not the white of egg. 



PLAIN BAKED OE STEWED APPLES. 

Peel and core some apples, and fill the 
centres with sugar and spice. If to be stewed, 
put a little water with them into a stewpan, 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 125 

and a little lemon peel and sugar. Cover 
closely, and simmer very slowly for half-an- 
hour — the slower the better. To bake them, 
put the peeled and cored apples into a deep 
dish, scatter sugar over them, add a little water, 
and bake. 

TO PEEPAEE SAGO PLAIN. 

Put a large tablespoonful of sago into a 
small saucepan with half-a-pint of hot water, 
four lumps of sugar — if possible, a glass of port 
wine. Stir the whole on the' fire for a quarter 
of an hour, and serve it in a teacup. 



ANOTHEB METHOD. 

Wash a large tablespoonful of the sago in 
cold water, put it into a saucepan with half-a- 
pint of milk, a little cinnamon, and when 
nearly done add two lumps of sugar. Simmer 
for half-an-hour. 



126 COXVALESCEyr COOKERY. 



TAPIOCA. 

According to directions for sago. Choose 
the laa^e tapioca. 

ABBOWEOOT 

may be made with water or milk. Genuine 
arrowroot requires no boUing. Blend a dessert- 
spoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water, 
rill up the teacup with boiling water, stirring 
all the time. If the arrowroot be good, it will 
be quite clear, as clear as good starch ; but if 
muddy, it must be put into a saucepan and 
boiled, carefully stirring all the time, before it 
can be given to the invalid. A little sugar and 
port wine may be added. It may also be made 
with milk instead of water, but, like com flour, 
it is not wholesome if insufficiently cooked. 



GBUEL. 

Mix a tablespoonful of prepared groats or 
grits with a teacupf ul of cold water, pour this 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 127 

into a saucepan containing a pint of hot water, 
and stir it on the fire while it boils for ten 
minutes. Strain the gruel through a sieve or 
colander into a basin, sweeten to taste; if 
allowed, add a spoonful of any kind of spirits, 
or season with salt and a bit of butter. 



OATMEAL OBUEL. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal into a 
basin, and pour over it a pint of cold water. 
This must be done some hours before it is 
wanted. Steeping the meal for as many as 
twelve or fourteen hours can do no harm. 

With a wooden spoon stir it well round, and 
mix the water through the meal. Strain it 
through a hair sieve, and boil the thin part in 
a very clean saucepan, stirring it all the time 
with a wooden pot-stick until it boils ; simmer 
it a few minutes after this and serve, seasoned 
as in the foregoing recipe. The coarse grains 
which remain in the sieve may be used in 



12d COXVALESCEST COOKERY. 

brothy for, being perfecilj good, it w 
sin to allow them to go to waste. 



COSH-FLOUB GSVEIi. 

A good gmel can be made by mixing a 
dessert-spoonfol of corn-floor which has first 
been blended with cold water into half-a-pint 
of hot water. Stir on the fire for ten minutes, 
sweeten with moist sugar, flavoor with nntmeg 
or a taUespoonfol of wine. 

BICE GRUEL, A BEMEDY FOB BELAXED BOWELS. 

Boil very gently eight ounces of rice in a 
quart of water for about an hour in a saucepan 
covered with its lid, and placed on the side of 
the hob ; the rice must be so thoroughly done 
as to look as if the grains had dissolved; a 
bit of orange peel or cinnamon should be boiled 
with the rice, and when quite soft the gruel 
sweetened with loaf sugar, and a table-spoon- 
ful of brandy added. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 129 



GBUEL WITH PEABL BABLEY, 

Put four ounces of pearl barley in a sauce- 
pan with two quarts of cold water and a small 
stick of cinnamon, and set the whole to boil 
very gently by the side of the fire (partly 
covered with the lid) for two hours 5 then add 
the sugar and the wine, boil all together a few 
minutes longer, and then strain the gruel 
through a colander into a jug to be kept in a 
cool place until required for use, when it can be 
warmed up in small quantities. 

N.B. — ^As this kind of gruel is a powerful 
cordial, it is to be borne in mind that it should 
never be administered unless ordered by a 
medical man, 

BICE WATEB. 

Add six ounces of rice and two ounces of 
Yaleutia raisins to two quarts of water; boil 
these very gently for about half-an-hour, or 
rather more ; strain off the water into a jug. 



130 COXVALESCEXT COOKERY. 

add aboat two tablespoonfiils of brandy. Bice 
water prepared in this way is given in cases of 
dysentery and diarrhoea. 



APPLE WATEB DSIKK. 

Slice up thinly three or four apples without 
peeling ihem, and boil them in a Tery clean 
saucepan with a quart of water and a little 
sugar until the slices of apple are become soft ; 
the apple water must then be strained through 
a piece of clean muslin or rag into a jug. 
This pleasant beverage should be drunk when 
cold; it is considered beneficial in aiding to 
allay scorbutic eruptions. 

BBAN TEA, A BEMEDY FOB COLDS, ETC. 

Boil a large handful of bran in a quart of 
water for ten minutes, then strain off the 
water into a jug, sweeten it with one ounce of 
gum arabic and a good spoonful of honey. 
Stir all well together; and give this kind of 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 131 

drink in all cases of affections of the chest, 
sach as colds, catarrhs, consumption, &c., and 
also in the measles. 



FOB THE LOSS OF THE VOICE FKOM GOLD. 

Put half-an-ounce of sugar-candy on a 
saucer, add the white of an egg, whisk together 
till the candy is dissolved and the egg in a 
froth. Give a teaspoonful once in two hours. 



ORANGEADE OB OBANGE DBINK. 

Peel off the rind of one orange very thinly 
without any of the white pith, and put the rind 
into a jug ; pare off all the white pith from 
three oranges so as to lay the pulp of the fruit 
quite bare ; cut the oranges in slices, take oat 
the pips as their bitterness would render the 
drink unpalatable ; add one ounce of sugar or 
honey, pour a quart of boiling water to these, 
cover up the jag, and allow the orangeade to 
stand and steep till quite cold ; it may then be 

X 2 



132 COmrALESCEST COOKERY. 



giren to the patient. This is a cooling beveiv 
age^ safe to gi^e in fisher cases. 



LSXOHADS. 



Proceed as in maTring orangeade, bat snbsti- 
tate lemons for oranges. 



LnrSEED TEA. 

Fat a tablespoonfol of linseed into a clean 
earthen pot or pipkin with a qnart of water, 
and a little orange or lemon rind; boil this 
gently for aboat ten minates, and then strain it 
throagh maslin into a jag ; sweeten with honey 
or sogar, add the jaice of a lemon, stir all to- 
gether, and give this beverage to allay irritation 
of the chest and langs — ^in the latter case the 
lemon had better be omitted. Linseed tea in 
its porest form is an excellent accessory in aid- 
ing to relieve such as are afflicted with goat, 
gravel, &c. 



f CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 133 



CAMOMILE TEA. 

Put about thirty flowers into a jug, pour a 
pint of boiling water upon them, cover up the 
tea, and when it has stood about ten minutes, 
pour it off from the flowers into another jug ; 
sweeten with sugar or honey ; drink a cupful 
of it fasting in the morning to strengthen the 
digestive organs, and restore the liver to 
healthier action. A teacupful of camomile tea, 
in which is stirred a large dessert- spoonful of 
moist sugar and a little grated ginger, is an 
excellent thing to administer to aged people a 
couple of hours before their dinner. 



TOAST WATER. 

Toast a piece of bread, thoroughly browned 
to its centre without being 'burnt ; put it into a 
jug, pour boiling water upon it, cover over, and 
allow it to stand and steep until it has cooled. 
The toast water will then be fit to drink. 



134 COyVALESCEST COOKEIiY. 



BABLEY WATEB. 



Boil one ounce of barley in a quart of water 
for twenty minutes ; strain througli muslin into 
a jug containing a bit of orange or lemon peeL 



TBEAOLE POSSET, 

Sweeten a pint of milk with four table- 
spoonfuls of treacle ; boil this for ten minutes ; 
strain it through a rag ; drink it while hot, and 
go to bed well covered with blankets; your 
cold will be all the less and you all the better 
for it 

WHITE WINE WHET. 

Put a pint of milk into a very clean sauce- 
pan or skillet, to boil on the fire ; then add 
half-a-gill of any kind of white wine ; allow the 
mUk to boil up, then pour it into a basin, and 
oii/vY^ it to stand in a cool place, that the curd 
11 to the bottom of the basin ; then pour 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 18< 

off the whey, which is ezoellent as an agent to 
remove a severe cough or cold. 



TO MULL WIKE. 

See that the vessel in which the wine is to 
4)0 mulled is exceedingly clean. Small tin 
warmers may be bought cheap, which are more 
suitable than saucepans, and ought to be kept 
exclusively for the purpose. The quantiiy 
of spice must be calculated not only according 
to the quantity of wine to be mulled, but ao- 
•cording to the taste of the person for whom it 
is intended. Put into a little water some cin- 
namon, cloves, and a little nutmeg, and boil till 
the flavour is extracted. Add wine and sugar, 
and bring it to boiling-point. Serve with strip 
of thin toast or biscuit. 



HOP TEA, 



Pour a quart of boiling water upon half-an- 
ounce of hops, cover this over, and allow the 



136 CONVALESCUn COOKERY. 

infosion to stand for fifteen minutes ; the tea 
must then be strained off into another jug. A 
small teacnpfol may be dmnk &sting in the 
morning, which will create an appetite, and 
also strengthen the digestive powers. 



AHTISPASMOniC TEA, FOB INDIGESTION PAINS. 

Infuse two-pennyworth of hay safiron (sold 
at all chemists') in a gill of boiling water in a 
teacup for ten minutes ; add a dessert-spoonful 
of brandy, and sugar to sweeten, and drink the- 
tea hot. This powerful but harmless remedy 
will quickly relieve from spasmodic pains occa- 
sioned by indigestion. 

CUBE FOB CHILBLAINS (uNBBOEEN). 

The pulp of a baked turnip beat up in a 
teacup with a spoonful of salad oil, ditto of 
mustard, and ditto of scraped horse-radish. 
Apply this mixture to the chilblains, and tie it 
on with a piece of rag. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 13T 

This recipe is inserted in deference to the 
opinion of others; but strong camphorated 
spirit, the stronger the better — homoeopathic 
camphor, if it can be had — is better than any 
mixture. Apply the spirit with the feather of 
a quill to the chilblain two or three times a 

day. 

CURE FOB THE STING OF WASPS AND BEES. 

Bruise the leaf of a poppy, and apply it to 
the part a£Pected. 

SHEBBET. 

Powdered white sugar, 1 lb. ; carbonate of 
soda, 2 oz. ; tartaric acid, 3 oz. Mix well to- 
gether and keep in a bottle; when required, 
mix well a teaspoonful of the powder in a 
tumbler of cold water, adding a drop of essence 
of lemon. 

MILE LEMONADE. 

Take six lemons and one Seville orange; 
slice them, and powder over them 1 lb. of loaf 



!38 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

sugar; pour on a pint of boiling water and a 
pint of white wine; let stand for six hours 
<K)yered; strain; pour in a pint of boiling milk; 
43train till clear. 



CBEAH OF TABTAB DBINE. 

To half-an-ounce of cream of tartar add one 
of loaf sugar and a bit of orange or lemon 
peel; put these into a jug; pour on them a 
•quart of boiling water, stir all t(^ether, and 
Allow to cool gradually* 



EFFEBVESCENT DBAUGHT. 

Squeeze the juice from a lemon, strain, and 
add to a tumbler of cold water with a little 
pounded sugar ; put in half a teaspoonful of 
bicarbonate of soda ; drink while effervescing. 



r- 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 139 



COFFEEf 

The excellence of co£Pee depends, first, upon 
the roasting of the berry, and secondly, upon 
the making of the beverage. 

If it be not sufficiently roasted, it will have 
little flavour, will lie heavy on the stomach, 
and probably produce nausea and vomiting. If 
too much roasted, it becomes acrid, and acquires 
a. disagreeable burnt taste. Properly roasted 
coflfee should have a chocolate-brown colour, and 
look bright and oily. It should be kept air- 
tight, as it loses its aroma by exposure. 

Coffee will be found to act as an aperient if 
a glass of cold water be taken immediately be- 
fore partaking of it. Strong coffee is a power- 
ful stimulant and cordial. 

Coffee ought never to be boiled. It must 
be made with boiling water, and kept as hot as 
possible until folly infused. 

The French method is to allow one ounce 
of fresh-ground coffee to nearly half-a-pint of- 



140 CONVALESCENT COOKERS. 

water ; the coffee is pat into the upper chamber 
of the eafetierey which is previously heated, and 
the mouth of the spout stopped with a cork ; 
the water is poured in, and let slowly percolate 
by the side of the fire, with as much heat as it 
can have without allowing it to boiL 

In making coffee in an old-fashioned coffee*^ 
pot, put in the coffee first, then pour on the 
boiling water; pour out a cupful, return it 
again; repeat this twice — it will soon clear 
itself; but it must not boil incessantly, for 
violent boiling will spoil it. Keep it closely 
covered, so as to retain the aroma. 

Allow one teaspoonful of the ground coffee 
to each cup. 



ANOTHEB MODE OP MAKING COFFEE. 

Put half-a-pound of freshly-ground coffee 
in a basin, and break into it an egg entire, 
shell and all ; and then mix it with a spoon to 
the consistence of mortar. Place this in a 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 141 

coffee-pot with tepid water ; let it boil up and 
break three times ; allow it to stand by the fire, 
but be careful it does not boil. It will come 
out as clear as amber — a rich drink. 



CAP£ AU LAIT. 

Mix the coffee with boiling milk instead of 
water ; sugar to taste. 



CHOCOLATE AND OOOOA. 

Genuine chocolate should dissolve in the 
mouth without a gritty feeling, leaving a sen- 
sation of freshness on the palate. It will dis- 
solve also in water entirely, leaving no sediment 
at the bottom of the vessel. It should not be 
made till required for use. Water is better for 
making chocolate than milk, but it should on 
no account be allowed to boil, as the oil would 
then pass to the surface. 

People unaccustomed to cocoa or chocolate 
find often that they disagree. By chewing and 



142 CONVALESCENT COOKEMT. 

swallowing a dry crust just before taking the 
cup of cocoa or chocolate this will in a great 
measure be remedied. 

Both cocoa and chocolate may be made by 
mixing the quantity required into a paste 
with boiling water, adding a little sugar ; then 
pouring in boUing milk with one hand, slowly, 
while it is beaten into a froth with another. It 
is then ready for use. 



TO PBEPABE COCOA NIBS. 

Boil gently two ounces of cocoa nibs in 
three pints of water for two hours and a half, 
without allowing it to reduce more than one- 
third — that is, three pints should boil down to 
one quart. When sufficiently boiled, strain the 
cocoa from the nibs, mix it with equal propor- 
tions of milk, and sweeten with sugar if pre- 
ferred. Cocoa is naturally so sweet that many 
people, especially invalids, prefer it without 
sugar. 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 143: 



CONCLUSION. 

It only remains to urge on cooks the necessity 
for giving the same care and thought to the^ 
manner in which the food is served as has been 
given to the food itself. 

Everything should be scrupulously clean as 
well as foultlessly neat. Cover the tray with a 
white cloth always^ no matter how cheap the 
material of which it may be. The sight of 
a black tray, perhaps one which has seen 
better days, will not improve a sick person's 
appetite. 

Never fill a huge tray with a cover dish and 
one or two large plates, and a great carving* 
knife and fork. Anything which suggests 
weight to the patient fatigues. There are 
nurses who would not only bring up such a 
tray, but would deposit it on the bed. 



144 C0NVALB8CE29T COOKERY. 

Don't at the last moment msli to the kitcben 
dresser and seize the first plate joa can find, 
possibly a big, heayj, coarse, delft one, and all 
chipped« The woman who wonld do that would 
put hot meat on a cold plate to a certainty. 
The spots from which the enamel is gone always 
look as if not clean* The coarser the ware the 
blacker the spot; so it looks like dirt. 

Think beforehand how mnch has to be pnt 
upon the plate* An ordinary breakfast-plate 
is generally large enongh for a chop and its 
gravy, or whatever will be eaten at one meaL 
Choose the best plate yon can find, in quality, 
and give all the more care to washing it after- 
wards, so that no harm happens to it. Warm 
the plate as hot as possible, and if you have a 
small Aelft or cMiux^ not a tin cover, warm it 
also ; if not, take another plate. A dingy tin 
cover is own brother to an old japanned tray. 
See that the fork is very clean and bright. In 
case the patient wishes the meat cut up for 
him— many a sick person sends away food for 



CONVALESCENT COOKERY, 145 

lack of energy to cut it — have a second knife 
and fork for the purpose. 

If salt is required, it must be carefully 
taken, fine, white, and very little of it. A 
spoonful taken from a salt-cellar which has 
stood upon the kitchen dresser, and received 
its share of coal-dust, will never look clean. 

Miss Nightingale says : * Take care not to 
spill into your patient's saucer— in other words, 
take care that the outside bottom rim of his 
cup is quite dry and clean ; if every time he 
lift his cup to his lips, he has to carry the 
saucer with it, or else to drop the' food upon 
and to soil his sheet, or his bed-gown or pillow, 
or, if he is sitting up, his dress, you have no idea 
what a difference this small want of care on 
your part makes to his comfort, and even to his 
willingness for food.' 

To this may be added — addressed to the 
cook ! * Don't fill the cup so ftdl that it cannot 
be carried upstairs without spilling.' 

The same care given to choosing a plate 

L 



146 CONVALESCENT COOKERY. 

mAj be continued in finding a cup and sancer. 
Light, small, and a cnp with a thin rim, will 
make tea taste quite differently. To put a 
heavy thick-edged cup, chipped perhaps, to 
poor fevered lips, from which all the skin is 
gone, is one of the tortures often administered 
by well-intentioned people. 

Claret in a mug, tea perhaps in a tin, water 
sipped from a big spoon, beef -tea in a saucer, 
new milk in a large coarse bowl, Liebig's ex- 
tract in a tumbler — all seem to change their 
natures under conditions unsuitable to them. 
Tn health people are aware of some of these 
distinctions; so think of them, remembering 
how illness intensifies nervous temperaments, 
making a patient feel absolute pain under what 
is apparently but a trifling infliction, and mul- 
tiplying in everyone, tenfold at least, the power 
of suffering. 



APPENDIX. 

^In the treatment of disease/ says Dr. Kirby, late 
physician to the London City Dispensary, ' the regula- 
tion of diet always demands particular attention; it 
may be made a powerful agent in the restoration of 
health, while negligence or errors are often exceedingly 
disastrous. The writer has seen cases lost which, 
humanly speaking, might have been saved had the 
nutrition of the patient been properly regarded ; in 
other words, if he had had food in the proportion that 
his malady had medicine.' 



DIET TABLES AT PRINCIPAL LONDON 

HOSPITALS. 

Each London Hospital has regular dietaries 
adapted to every stage of illness, but the details may 
be varied by the physicians. 

At the London Fever Hospital there are three 
scales — ^low, middle, and full. The first consists of 
bread, milk, gruel with sugar ; or it may be beef-tea 
diet — ^beef tea, milk, and bread. 

L 2 



148 APPENDIX. 

The second gives bread, broth, milk, rice or bread 
pudding with egg and sugar in it ; or it may be fish diet 
— bread, fish (sole, haddock, cod, or brill), potatoes, 
cocoa, and milk. 

Full diet includes bread, meat, potatoes, cocoa, milk, 
and beer. 

Extras at medical discretion provide for the last 
diet beef tea in two degrees of strength, eggs as ordered, 
arrowroot, custard pudding, tea, sugar, and butter. 

In the Hospital for Diseases of the Chest there is no 
diet table which answers to that required for low 
patients in fever cases. 

For breakfast, patients have bread, milk, or cocoa ; 
for dinner, meat, potatoes, and porter ; for supper, bread 
pudding, rice pudding, gruel, corn-flour, or Scotch 
broth. 

The middle diet only differs from the full diet in 
giving a less weight of meat, and half the quantity of 
porter. 

At this hospital there is also a milk diet, and a 
beef-tea diet. The former allows bread, milk, and 
rice or bread pudding. The latter provides bread, milk, 
beef tea, and one egg per day to each patient. 

Every patient on being admitted to the hospital is 
placed on beef-tea diet until further orders. 

At King's College Hospital the fall diet breakfast 
consists of bread and milk. Dinner of meat, bread, 
potatoes, and porter. Supper of gruel and milk. 



APPENDIX. 149 

Middle diet differs onlj in the quantity allowed of 
meat and portly being less than for full diet. 

Milk diet gives rice milk instead of meat, also rice 
pndding. 

Middlesex Hospital has convalescent and half- 
convalescent diets, both exceedingly liberal, even sub- 
stantial; dinner including joints of meat — 1^ and 
shoulders of mutton, sirloins and rounds of beef. 

The half-convalescent is similar, only the allowanoe 
of meat is reduced in quantity. Besides these two 
dietaries their are pudding diet, ordinary diet, half, 
ordinary diet, mutton-broth diet, fish diet, and sample 
diet. 

The extras include chops, beef tea, broth with neck 
of mutton, rump steaks, tripe, chicken, oysters, greens, 
eggs, arrowroot, sago, jellies, porter, wine, and spirits. 

London Hospital has a tempting dietary under the 
name of ' £incy.' It varies on each day of the week, 
beginning on Sundays with roast mutton and rice 
pudding; then through the week, fish and batter 
pudding, rabbit and light pudding, roast mutton and 
rice pudding, ete. ete. ; and for supper a pint of lm)th. 
Children have bread and milk daily, meat and potatoes 
five times a week, rice pudding twice a week. Among 
the extras here are green vegetables, water-cresses, wine, 
spirits, and porter. 

The diet in all the hospitals is the same for men 
and women, but the quantity of each article is less for 
the latter than for the former. 



150 APPENDIX, 



SPECIAL DIETS, ETC.^ 

DIETETIC TREATMENT OP SPASMODIC ASTHMA^ 

The diet must be regularly weighed out, and adhered 
to with the greatest strictness, the hours of meals being 
most rigidly £xed as follows : — 

Breakfast at 8 a.m. — To consist of half a pint of 
green tea or coffee, with a little cream, and two quncea 
of dry stale bread. 

Dinner at 1 p.m. — ^To consist of two ounces of fresh 
beef or mutton, without fat or skin, and two ounces of 
dry stale bread or well-boiled rice ; three hours after 
dinner (not sooner) half a pint of weak brandy and 
water, or whisky and water, or dry sherry and water,, 
may be taken, or toast and water ad libitum. 

Supper at 7 p.m. — To consist of two ounces of 
meat as before, with two ounces of dry stale bread. 

The patient is not to be allowed to drink any fluid 
whatever within one hour before his dinner or supper, 
and not until three hours after either of these meals. 
At other times he is not limited as to drinks, otherwise- 
than that all malt liquors are to be prohibited. Soda 
or Seltzer water may be indulged in at other timea 
when thirsty. 

> From A Formulary of Selected Diets, by E. A. Kirby, M.D» 
London : H. E. Lewis. 



APPENDIX. 151 

With this dietetic treatment sedatives are to be 
given as follows : — 

Three grains of the Extract of Conium are to be 
taken four times a day; namely, at the hours of seven, 
twelve, five, and ten, the dose to be gradually increased 
to five grains four times a day. To each of these pills 
9» fourth of a grain of the Extract of Indian Hemp may 
be added, which may be gradually increased to one 
grain in each dose.^ 



DIETETIC TREATMENT OF APOPLEXY. 

The diet of the patient should be low till all ap- 
prehension of a relapse is passed, and limited to milk, 
boiled vegetables, light puddings, and fish. At no 
subsequent period ought he to indulge in a full animal 
diet, or to drink undiluted wines. At the same time, 
too lowering a regimen is to be avoided, as thereby the 
irritability of the system and the heart's action generally 
are increased. All the causes of the disease already 
fully referred to should be avoided, counteracted, or 
overcome.^ 

* Mr. Pridham, Brit, Med. Jonmalt June 9 to Dec. 29, 
1860. 

* Dr. Aitken, Science and Practice of Medicine, vol. ii. 
p. 605. 



152 APPENDIX. 



DIETARY IN CASES OP SLOW DIGESTION, 

Breakfasty 8 a,m. — Bread (stale), four ounces. 
Mutton chop or other meat (cooked), free from fat and 
skin, three ounces. Tea, or warm milk and water and 
sugar, or other beverage, three-quarters of a pint. 

Luncheon, 1 p.m. — Bread (stale), two ounces. No 
solids, such as meat or cheese. Liquid, quarter of a 
pint. 

Dinner, 5 or 6 p.m. — Bread (stale), three ounces. 
Potatoes and other vegetables four ounces. Meat 
(cooked), free from skin and fat, four ounces. Liquid 
not more than half a pint. 

Tea or Supper (not sooner than three hoiutj after 
dinner). — Bread (stale), two ounces. No solid, such as 
meat or cheese. Tea or weak brandy and water, or 
sherry and water, or toast and water, to the extent of 
half a pint.^ 

DIETETIC TREATMENT IN EPILEPSY. 

In the adult the diet should be light, and the 
patient should live temperately. He should live by 
rale. He should rise early and take regular exercise 
in the open air, keeping his head cool and his feet 
warm. The diet of an infant so affected should be, if 
possible, its mother's milk, with or without arrowroot. 
If above three or four years of age, its diet should 

' Dr. Leared. 



APPENDIX. 163 

•consist entirely of farinaceous or of other light vege- 
table food.^ 



( BEGIMEN AND DIET IN LOSS OF NERVE POWER, ETC. 

Kegimen and diet in loss of nerve power, etc., 
always of importance in the treatment of every 
•case, is especially so in those diseases in which phos- 
phorus or its combinations are indicated. 

Attention should, in the first place, be directed to 
the general health of the patient, condition of the 
digestive organs, and state of the bowels ; where these 
•are disordered suitable correctives should be pre- 
scribed before commencing as well as during the course 
of phosphorus. Constipation, so frequently persist- 
ently present, is to be relieved ; and where there is 
torpidity of liver, mild mercurials, when not contra- 
indicated, or podophyllin in alternative doses, should 
be administered, combined with gentle aperients. They 
will effectually prevent the clogging of the liver of 
which some writers speak. 

It is to be borne in mind that phosphorus par- 
takes rather of the nature of food than of medicine ; 
its office is to supply nutrition of a special character, 
and its operation is promoted by a judicious, and 
delayed, if not destroyed, by an injudicious manage- 
ment; it is important therefore that the patient 

> Dr. AiTKEN, Science O/nd Practice of Medicine, vol. ii. 
p. 643. 



154 APPENDIX. 

should submit to a prescribed regimen, enjoining absti- 
nence from, or extreme moderation in, the use of 
alcoholic drinks and tobacco, the avoidance of over- 
feeding, mental fatigue, strong muscular exercise, and 
excesses of every kind, that directly or indirectly 
fatigue, not to say exhaust, the forces and waste the 
tissues which the phosphorus is administered to sup- 
port and nourish. The adoption of early hours and 
the daily use of the bath (cold or tepid, according to 
the condition of the patient; the cold bath, either 
plunge, douche, or sponge, always to be preferred 
when admissible), and exercise in the open air, are all 
absolutely necessary. The Turkish bath is a valu- 
able help in the "treatment of many disorders, and 
it may always be safely employed where there is no 
reason to suspect organic lesion. It is especially use- 
ful in nervous exhaustion from overwork. I know of 
no remedy which so quickly relieves brain fatigue. 
The diet must be simple and nutritious, and good of 
its kind ; fresh meat, mutton or beef, plainly dressed 
and not over-cooked, fish and fresh vegetables. Eggs, 
recently laid, uncooked, are at once easy of digestion 
and highly nutritious; in some cases as many as half 
a dozen may be taken in twenty-four homtJ. In cases 
where wine is advisable. Burgundy is to be preferred ; 
tea and coffee, unless they be very moderately taken, 
had better be altogether avoided. The kind, as well aa 
the quantity, of the food, must, however, be determined 
by the digestive power of the patient, and this is 



APPENDIX. 155 

found to be frequently so impaired as only to admit of 
milk and easily assimilated farinaceous substances^ 
such as lentil meal, com flour, macaroni, etc. 

So important is the determination of the diet in 
the treatment of nervous disease— ofben dependent 
more or less entirely upon defective nutrition — that it 
should in every case be made the subject of a special 
prescription, in which the kind and quantity of the 
food should be definitively stated for the guidance of 
the patient. 

DIET FOB DIABETES. 

The important principle to be regarded is the ex- 
clusion of starch and sugar, and articles containing 
them ; all else is of little consequence. Meat, poultry, 
fish, game, green vegetables, cress, celery, lettuce,, 
spinach, and the like; butter, cheese, eggs, are all 
admissible. Yan Abbot's and Bonthron's gluten 
bread and biscuits, and Blatchley's bran biscuits, are 
all very valuable substitutes for wheaten bread. 

Pepsine, Pancreatine, and Dilute Hydrochloric 
Acid, are very useful digestcmta in diabetes. 

Dr. Pavy says diabetic patients may drink dry 
sherry, claret, sauteme, soda water. Burton bitter 
beer ; must riot drink milk (except sparingly), sweet 
ales, porter, stout, cider, sparkling wines. 



I K D E X. 



ANT 

Antispasmodic tea, 136 
Apple drink, 130 
Apples, plain stewed, 124 
Arrowroot, 126 



Babley wateb, 134 
Beef, to choose, 21 

— extract, 46, 47 

— tea, 42, 47 

— tea, Beeton, 51 

Francatelli, 62 

Goiiff6, 51 

Soyer, 49 

Blancmange, meat, 108 
Boiling, 78, 79 

Bran tea, 130 
Broiling, 68, 64 
Butter, melted, 119 
with milk, 120 



Cafe au lait, 141 
Calf's head broth, 54 
Camomile, 133 
Chocolate, 141 



DIE 

Chicken broth, 56 

— extract, 57 
Chilblains, 136 
Cleanliness in person, 11 

— food, 11 

— utensils, 11 
Cocoa nibs, 142 
Coffee, 139, 140 
Conclusion, 143 
Conscientiousness, cook and 

nurse, 10 
Consumption, nourishment, 

110 
Cook, her motto, 9 
Cough, Iceland moss for, 111 

— syrup. 111 

Cow-heel baked in milk, 109 

jelly. 98 

Coutts, Baroness Burdett, 12 
Cream of Tartar, 138 
Cutlets, 63-65 



Diets, London Hospitals, 147- 

149 
— apoplexy, 151 



158 



INDEX. 



DIB 

Diet, asthma, spasmodic, 150 

— diabetes, 155 

— epilepsy, 152 

-^ nerve power, loss of, 153 

— slow digestion, 152 
Ducks, to choose, 26 
Drinks, 129-138 



Effebvescent draught, 138 
Eggs, to choose, 28 



FntiNO, 19 

Fire for cooking, 44 

Fish, 80 

— to choose, 27 

— time to cook, 81 
Flour, to choose, 29 
Forethought, 12 
Fowls, to choose, 24 

— to heat, 94 

Franklin, Dr., a good nurse, 1 
Fruit, to choose, 29 

Game, 84 

Gk>ose, to select, 26 

Gouff^, Jules, on fowls, 25 

preparing in advance, 

16 
Gruel, corn-flour, 128 

— groats, 126 

— oatmeal, 127 

— pearl barley, 129 

— rice, 128 



Hop tea, 135 



KIO 



Iceland moss blancmange, 
111 

and currant jelly, 111 

jelly, 110 



Jelly-bag, 97 
Jelly, calves' foot, 96 

— cow's heel, 98 

— cranberry, 113 

— German, 112 

— grape, 112 

— for weak-limbed children, 99 



Ejtchen, 31 



Lamb, to choose, 23 
Lamb shank, 92 
Lemonade, 132 
— milk, 137 
Liebig's extract, 106 
Linseed tea, 127 



Mabketiko, 17 
Meal, to choose, 29 
Milk, 29 
Mutton broth, 52, 53, 54 

— to choose, 22 

— custard, 108 



NiaHTiNGALE, Miss, On eggs, 
101 

— on jelly, 100 

— on nurses, 1 

— on patients' ways, 13 



INDEX. 



159 



ORA 

Orangeade, 131 



Patience, nurse and cook, 11 
Pinches of salt, etc., 40 
Pork, to choose, 15 
Pudding, arrowroot, 112 

— batter, 115 

— bread, 116 

— com flour, 119 

— rice, 118 

— sago, 118 

— tapioca, 126 



Babbits, boiled, 87 

— fricassee, 88 
— • fried, 90 

— soup, 90 

— stewed, 88 

— warmed-up, 90 
Keady money, 21 
Bice, 121 

— dumplings, 122 

— and apples, 123 

— water, 129 
Boasting, 67 



WIN 

Sago with milk, 125 
Sago, plain, 125 
Saucepans, to clean, 32, 35 
Sauce pudding, 120 

richer, 121 

Serving food, 143 

Sherbet, 137 

Sink, 35 

Stings, wasps and bees, 137 

Tablespoonfuls, 46 
Tapioca, 126 
Teaspoonfuls, 40 
Toast water, 133 
Treacle posset, 134 
Turkey, to choose, 26 



Veal, to choose, 22 
Vegetable marrow, 113 
Vegetables, boiling, 78 

— to choose, 29 
Voice, loss of, 131 

Wine, white, whey, 134 

— to mull, 135 



LOVDOS I PBISTSD BT 

gpOTTIBWOODl AVD CO., KSW-BTHEBT BQUABB 

A5D PABLIAHBSrr STBXBT 




CHATTO & WiNDUS'S 

List of Books. 

NE W FINE-AR T WOR/C. Large 4to, bound in buckram, an. 
Abdication, The ; or, Time Tries All. 

An Historical Drama. By W. D. ScoTT-MonCrIBFF. With Seven 
Erehines by JOHN Pettik, R.A.. W. Q. OrchAkdSON, R.A., ]. MAC 
Whtrtrh. A.R.A,.CoT.iw Humtf.h.R Macbeth, an d Tom Gb AH AM. 
Crown evo, Coloured Frontispiece aod lUustratlOQ*, cloth gilt, ji. 6A 

Advertising, A History of. 

From the Earliest Times, Illusttated by Anecdotes. Curious Sped- 
mens . a nd N otices of SuecessftU Advertiaera. By Hbnry SahpsOH. 
Ccowa 8vo, cioth extra, with 639 IllustiatloDS, yj. 6d. 

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of. 

From the Gerraan of A. Rosengartkh by W. Cou.Bn-SAHDA»s. 
Crown Svo, with Portrait and Facsimile, cloth extra, ji, 6d. 

Artemus Ward's Works : 

The Works of Chables Faskek Bbownb, better known «s AKTBuus 
Wabd. With Portrait, Facsimile of Handwriti^, &(x 
Crown 8vD, cloth ems, 71. 6rf. 

Bankers, A Handbook of London; 

With aome Account of thdr Predecesson, the Early Goldimltha 1 toge- 
tberwithLlsnof Bankets tromi67ytoi876. By F. O. Hilton PB IC8. 

Bardsley (Rev. 0. W.), Works by : 

XngUih SwTiMneB : Their Sources attd Significatioo*. Bf 
Ckaklu Waisikg Baiusslkv, H.A. Crown ftro, d«b enn, jt. fd, 

GurloaltiBi of Puritan NomenolAtiir*. By Chakus W, 

BAHDauv. Crown avn, doth gnra, ;t. 6J. 

CrowD Svo, doth extra, lUmtraied, 7J, 6d. 

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of. 

Br HUfsr HOBLET. New EditkHi, with One Hnndced IlliutiatiiKit. 



2 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 

Imperial 4to, doth eztm, gilt and gilt edges, s». per yolume. 

Beantifdl Pictures by British Artists : 

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series. 
The First Sbribs including Examples by Wilkib, Constable 

TtTRNBR, MULRBADT, LANDSBBR, MaCLISB, E. M. WARD, FRITH, 

Sir John Gilbert, Leslie, Ansdell, Marcus Stone, Sir Noel 
Paton, Faed, Eyre Crowe, Gavin O'Neil. and Madox Brown. 

The Second Series containing Pictures by Arhitage, Fabd, 
Goodall, Hemslet, Horsley, Marks, ^fICHOLLS, Sir Noel 
Paton, Pickersgill, G. Smith, Marcus Stone, Solomon, 
Straight, E. M. Ward, and Warren. 

All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with 
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney Armytage, M.A. 
" This hook is well got «^, a»idgood engravit^rg hy Jeens, Lutkb Siockst and 
oihirs, Ming hack to us Reyai Academy Exhibitions <^/<m/ yoars.** — Timks. 

Small 4to, green and gold, 6s, 6d, ; gilt edges, yj. 6d, 

Bechstein's As Pretty as Seven, 

And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bechstein. With 

Additional Tsdes by the Brothers Grimm, and zoo Illustrations by 

R ichte r. 

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated. 

Belgravia for 1882. 

A New Serial Story, entitled "All Sorts and Conditions of Men," 
written by Walter Besant and James Rice, Authors of " Ready- 
Money Mortiboy," Ac, and Illustrated by Fred. Barnard, will be 
begun in the January Number of Belgravia ; this Number will 
contain also the First Chapters of a New Novel, entitled " The 
Admiral's Ward," by Mrs. Alexander, Author of "The 
Wooing o't," &c. ; and the first of a series of Twelve Papers, entitled 
*' About YorkshiFe," by Katharine S. Macquoid, illustrated by 
T, R. Macquoid. 
•,• Th€ FORTY-FIFTH Volume of BELGRAVIA, elegantly bound 
in crimson cloth, full gilt side and bach, gilt edges, price ys, 6d,, is Uaw 
readf. — Handsome Cases f or binding volumes can be had at at. each, ' 

Demy 8vo, with Illustrations, is, 

Belgravia Annual. 

With Stories by Wilkie Collins, F, W. Robinson, Dutton Cook,- 
Percy Fitzgerald, J. Arbuthnot Wilson, Hbmrt W; Lucy^ 
D. Christie Murray. James Payn. and others. [J^ov. lo. 

F olio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, au. 

Blake (William) : . . 

Etchinip ftom his Works. By W. B. Scott. With descripliyevrert > 
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with lUustrations, js, 6d, 

Boccaccio's Decameron; 

or. Ten Dm' Entertainment. Translated Into English, with an Intro- 
duction by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait, uqA 
Stothard's beautiful Copperplates. ' . ' 



CHATTO 6f* IVINDUS, PICCADILLY. 3 

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size for blading. 

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks: 

AMkdomy Motes, 1875. With 40 Illustntions. ix. 
Academy Notefl, 1876. With 107 Illustrations, ix. 
Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustratioas. is. 
Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustratioas. ts. 
Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, ts. 
Academy Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, is. 
Academy Notes, 1881. With 128 Illustrations, is. 
Orosvenor Notes, 1878. With 68 Illustrations. is, 
Qrosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations. is, 
Grosvenor Notes, 1880. With 56 Illustrations. is. 
Grosvenor Notes, 1881. With 74 Illustrations. is. 
Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, is, 
Piotores at South Kensington. With 70 Illustrations, is. 
The English Pictures at the National Gallery. 1 14 lUusts. is. 
The Old Masters at the National Gallery. 128 Illusts. is. td. 
Academy Notes, 1876-79. Complete in One Volume, with 

Bevly 600 Illustraf iocs in Facsimilo. Df my 8vo, cloth limp, 6s 

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery. 

With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 249 DIusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3<r. 
UNIFORM WITH ** ACADEMY NOTES. 

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, ix. 

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, is, j 

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 1 14 Illustrations, is, i 

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 188 1. 104 Illustrations, is, 

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 Illusts. is. 

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. u. 

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. u, 

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1881. 108 Illusts. is. 

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. is. 

Walker Art GtJlery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. is, j 

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880. 100 Illusts. is, \ 

Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 Illustrations, is. 

Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illusts. is. 

Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. ix. 

Bowers' (O.) Hunting Sketches: 

Canters in Crampshlre. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from 
Gorseborough. II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III.' Studies wit^ 
Stag Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 9x<. 

Xieaves firom a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in 

facsimile 0^ the on'gioalf. Obionz 4to, half'bo und. aif . 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d. 

Brand's Observations on Popular AntiqnitieSi 

ehiefly Illustrating the Ori^n of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and 
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Hbnrt Ellis. An entirely 
New and Revised Edition, with fine full-page Illustrations. 



ft 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



Bret Harte, Works by : 

Bret Harte's OoUeoted Works. Arranged and Revised by the 
Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6f. each. | 

VoL I. COMPLBTB POBTICAL AND DRAMATIC WOKKS. With Steel PUtC 

Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author. 
VoL II. Earlier Papers — Luck op Roaring Camp, and other Sketches 

— Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends. 
Vol. III. Tales op the Argonauts— Eastern Sketches. 
Vol. IV. Gabriel Conrov. 
Vol. V. Stories— Condensed Novels, &c. 
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With 

Introductory Essay by J. M. Bellew, Portrait of the Author, and 50 
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 71. td. 

An Heiress of Bed Dog, and other Stories. By Brbt Harte. 

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, or. ; cloth limp, 91. 6d, 

The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harts. Fcap. 

8vo, picture cover, zi. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra, 31. 61/. 

The Luok of Boaring Camp, and other Sketohes. By Bret 

Hartb. Post 8vo, illustrated lx>ards, ai. 

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Hartb. Fcap. 8yo, picture 

cover, XX. ; cloth extra, ar. td. 
Small crown 8vo, doth extra, gilt, with full-page Portraits, 41. 6^. 

Brewster's (Sir David) Martyrs of Science, 

Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Astronomical Plates, 41. td, 

Brewster's (Sir D.) More Worlds than One, 

the Creed of the Philosopher and the Hope of the Christian. 
THE STOTHARD BUNYAH.—Crovm 8vo. doth extra, gilt, yj. 6d. 

Bnnyan's Pilgrim's Progress. 

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by 
Stothard, engraved by Goodall ; and numerous Woodcuts. 

Demy Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d, 

Burton's The Anatomy of Melancholy : 

What it is ; its Kinds, Causes, Symptoms, Prognostics, and several 
Cures of it. In Three Partitions ; with their several Sections, Mem* 
bers, and Sub-sections, Philosophically, Medically, and Historically 
Opened and Cut-up. A New Edition, corrected and enriched by Trans- 
lations of the Classical Extracts. 

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, yj. 6d, 

Byron's Letters and Journals. 

With Notices of bis Life. Bv Thomas Moorb. A Reprint of the 
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twdve full-page Plates. 

Demy Svo, doth extra, 141. 

Campbell's (Sir O.) White and Black : 

Travels in the United States. By Sir Qeorgb Campbell, M.P. 



CHATTO 6- W INDUS, PICCADILLY. 5 

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. 6<f. 

Caravan Route (The) between Egypt and 

Syria. By His Imperial and Royal Highness the Archduke Ludwig 
Salvator of Austria. With 23 full-page Illustrations by the Author. 

Post 8vo, doth extra, zj. 6^. 

Oarlyle (Thomas) On the Choice of Books. 

With a Life of the Author by R. H. Shepherd. Entirely New and 
Revised Edition. 

Crown 8vo, Giotn extra, ^s, 6d, 

Century (A) of Dishonour : 

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some of 
the Indian Tribes. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. 

Chap-Books.— A History of the Chap-Books 

of the Eighteenth Century. By John Ashton. With nearly 400 
Illustrations, engraved in facsimile of the originals. 

*i>* A few Large- Paper copies will be carefully printed on hand-made 
paper, for which early applicati on should be made. 

Lai^e 4to, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 2Ss, 

Chatto and Jackson.— A Treatise on Wood 

Engraving : Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatto 
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G. 
Bohn ; and 450 fine Illustrations. A reprint of the last Revi sed Edition. 

Small 4to, doth gilt, with Coloured Illustrations, zor. 6d, 

Chaucer for Children: 

A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Hawbis. With Eight Coloured 
Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author. 

Demy 8vo, cloth limp, as, 6d, 

Chaucer for Schools. 

By Mrs. Haweis, Author of '* Chaucer for Children." 



Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Map and Illustrations, 2s, 6d, 

Cleopatra's Needle: 

Its Acquisition and Removal to England. By Sir J. B. Alexander. 

— ^ II I I 11 I M B^ II MM^^IBII 1-IW Mill! M^M ■!! I ■■ I I' I' I I'l ' — - ^-^^ 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, gilt, 71. 6ii. 

Colman's Humorous Works : 

" Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers," and other HumofOUS 
. Works, Prose and Poetical, of George CouiAN. With Ufe by O. 
B. BucKSTONE, and Frontispiece by Hogarth. 

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 21. 6d, 

Convalescent Cookery: 

A Family Handbook. By Catherine Ryan, [/« tlUprtss, 



BOOKS PUBUSHED BY 



Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5r. 

OhesB, The Laws and Practice of. 

T«f ether with am Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End 
Games. By the late Howard Staunton. Edited by Robbrt 

B. WORMALD. 

Oonway (Moncure D.)^ Works by: 

Demonclcgy and Deyil-IiOre. By Moncure D. Conway, 

M.A. Two Vols. , royal 8vo, with 65 Illustrations, a8«. 

A Neoklaoe of Stories. By Moncure D. Conway, M»A. 

Illustrated by W. J. Hbhmbssy. Square 8vo, doth extra, 6«. 

The Wandering Jew. By Moncure D. Conway, M. A. Crown 

8vo, cloth extra, 6«. 

Thomas Carlyle. By Moncure D, Conway, M.A. With 

Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6f. 

Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, au. 

Oook (Dutton).— Hours with the Players. 

By Dutton Cook. 

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2^. 6d, 

Oopyright.— A Handbook of English and 

Foreign Copyright in Literarv and Dramatic Works. Being a con- 
cise Ingest of the Laws regulating Copyright in the Chief Countries 
•f the World, together with the Chief Copyright Conventions existing 
between Great Britain and Foreign Coimtries. By Sidney Jerrold, 

of the Middle Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-Law. 

' . _^___ 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 71. 6^. 

Cornwall.— Popular Romances of the West 

of England ; or, The Drolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old 
Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New 
and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustiations 
by George Cruikshank. 

Crown 8vo, doth eztia, gilt, with 13 Portraits, 71. 6^. 

Oreasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ; 

with Notices of the Early Histoxy of Eton College. By Sir Edward 
Creasy,' Aathor of "The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World." 

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Etched Frontispiece, 7J. ^d* 

Credulities, Fast and Present. 

By William Jones, F.S.A., Author of *' Finger-Ring Lore^*'fte« 

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6r. 



Crimes and 

Including a New Translation of Beocaria's " Dd Delitti e ddle Pene.** 
By Jambs Anson FARrer. 



CHATTO 6- WINDUS^ PICCADILLY. 



Crown 8vo, doth gilt> Two very thick Volnmes, yj. 6tf. each* 

Cmikshank's Comic Almanack. 

Complete in Two Skribs \ The First from 1835 to 1843 ; the Seoonb 
from Z844 to Z853. A Gathering of the Best Humour of 
Thackerat, Hood, Mathbw, Albert Smith, A'Bbckstt, 
Robert Brough, &c. With s.ooo Woodcuts and Steel Engiayings 
by Cruikshank, Hinb, Landells, ifta 

Two Vols., crown Bvo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 24J. 

Craikshank (The Life of George). 

In Two Epochs. By Blanch ARD Jerrold, Author of "The Life 
of Napoleon II|.," &c. With numerous lUxistrations, and a List of 
his Works. [/» prep^r^tUn. 

Two Vols., demy 4to, handsomely bound in half-morocco, gilt, profusely 
Illustrated with Coloured and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, price £j yj. 

Cyclopeedia of Costume ; 

or, A Dictionary of Dress— Regal, Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military^— 
from the Earliest Period in England to the reign of George the Thud.* 
Including Notices of Contemporaneous Fashions on the Continent, 
and a G^eral History of the Costiunes of the Principal Countries of 
Europe. By J. R. PlanchA , Somerset Herald. 
The Volumes may also be had teparaialy (each Comidete is itself) at ;£ 3 131. fA eadi S 
Vol. L THE DIOTIONABY. 

Vol. n. A OBNBRAL HISTORY OF OOSTUMB IN BTTBOPB. 
Also in 35 Parts, at 51. each. Cases for binding, 5x. eadu 
'* A eomprehendv* and hiehly valuabU book of rejerenci. . . . Wi AtM 
rarefy feuUd to /ind in this book an account 0/ an articU of drus^ wkilo in most 
^f iko entries curious and inst-ntctive details are given, . . . Mr» Planckts 
enormous labour of lovty the production of a text whichf whether in its dictionary 
form or in that of the ' General f/istory/ is within itsintended scope immeasurably 
ike best and richest work on Costume in English^ • • . This book is not only 
one of the most readable works of the kind, but intrinsically attraetwe emd 
amusing "^AmnuMVU, 

" A most readable and interesting work — and it can scarcefy be consulted in 
vain, whether the reader is in search for information as to militarf, eowi^ 
^clesiastical, legal t or professional costume. . . , All the chromo-Kthografdu^ 
and most of the woodcut illustrations— the latter amounting to several theuumde 
— are very elaboratelv executed; and the work forms a livre de luxe which rende^i 
it equally suited to the library and the ladicf drawing^oom." — ^Timbs. 

Demy 8vo, doth extra, zai. Sd, 

Doran's Memories of our Oreat Tovvns. 

With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and tbelr 
Oddities. By Dr. John Doran« F.S.A. 

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, au. 

Drury Lane, Old : 

Fifty Years' Recollections of Author, Acttr, and Manager. By 
Edward Stirling. 



S BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 

Demy 8to, doth, x6f. 

Dntt's India, Past and Present ; 

with Minor Essays on Cognate Subjects. By Shoshbb Chunobb 
Putt. RAi BAhAdoor. 

Crown 8vOf doth boardsi 6j. per Volume. 

Early English Poets. 

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Grosart. 

** Jfr. GrMort kat tptnt tkt most labaricuM tmd tJks most gutkutiatHe car§ mt 

t/u Ptfftci rtitoraticH and ^rttorvation. of ik» text, , . Ftvm Mr, Grouwi «m 

mh o mn oxptct tmd always rtciioo the final results ^most^atiefU emd cem^etemf 

tcMarskM^^^'KxAunxKM, 



I. Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Com- 

flete Poems: Christ's Victme in 
leaven, Christ's Victorie on £arth| 
Christ's Triumph over Death, ana 
Minor Poems. With Memorial>In-> 
troduction and Notes. One VoL 

•• DaTles' (Sir John) Complete 

Poetical Works, induding Psalms I. 
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto 
UnpabUshed MSS.^ for the first time 
CdQected and Edited. Memorial- 
Tntroductinn and Notes. Two Vol*. 



3. Herrlok's (Robert) Hesperi- 

des. Noble Nnmbers, and Complete 
Collected Poems. With Memorial- 
Introduction and Notes, Sted Por- 
trait, Index of First Line& and 
Glossarial Index, &C. Three Vols. 

4. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Com- 

plete Poeticd Works, induding aU 
those in "Arcadia." WithPortnut. 
MemoriaMntroduction, Essay oa 
the Poetry of Sidney, and Notes. 
Three Vols. 



Imperial 8vo, with 147 fine Engravings, half-morocoo, 36^. 

Early Teutonic, Italian, and French Masters 

(The). Translated and Edited from the Dohme Series, by A. H. 
Kbanb, M.A.I. With numerous Illustrations. 
*' Cannot fail to he 0/ the utmost use to students oj art history.** — ^Timbs. 

Crown 8ve, doth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6s, 

Emannel On Diamonds and Precious 

Stones : their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for 
ascertaining thdr Reality. By Harrt Euanubl, F.R.G.S. With 
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain. 

Cr3wn 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrationa, js.^d. 

Englishman's House, The : 

A Practical Guide to all interested in Sdecting or Building a House, 
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson. 
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations. 

Crown Svo, doth extra, with nearly 300 Illustrations, 7s, 6d, 

Evolution, Chapters on ; 

A Popular History of the Darwinian and Allied Theories of Develop- 
ment. Bv Andrew Wilson. Ph .P . F.R.S. Edin. ftc. \In preparation. 

Crown Svo, cloth extra, dr. 

Evolutionist (The) At Large. 

By Grant Allen. 



CHATTO 6* VrJNDUS, PICCADILLY. 



Folio, cloth extra, £x iis» 6d, 

Examples of Contemporary Art. 

Etchings from Rq)resentative Works by living English and Fordgn 
Artists. Edited, with Critical Notes, by J. Comyns Carr. 
** // would net b* easy to moot with a more sumptuous , and at tho same timo 
a mors t€ute/ifl and snstructivo drawing'room boohS^ — Nonconformist. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6f. 

Fairholt's Tobacco : 

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its 
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By F. 
W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwanLs of 
loo Illustrations by the Author. 

Crown 8vo, cloih extra, jj. dd. 

Familiar Allusions : 

A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of 
Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins, 
Churches. Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like. 
Begun (but left unfinisbed) by William A. Wheeler, Author of 
" Noted Names of Fiction ; " completed by Charles G. Wheeler. 

[/« the press . 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. 6^. 

Faradajr's Chemical History of a Candle. 

Lectures delivered to a Juvenile Audience. A New Edition. Edited 
by W. Crookes, F.CS. With ntunerous Illustrations. 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, with Illiistrations, 41. 6^. 

Faraday's Various Forces of Nature. 

New Edition. Edited byW. Crookes. F>C.S. Numerous Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. 6^. 

Finger-Ring Lore : 

Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. By Wm. Jones, F.S.A. With 

Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries. 

^Ono of those gossiping books which are as full of amusement as of instruc- 

Hon.**—ATllKNMVM. 

Gardening Books: 

A Year's Work in Garden and Oreenhouse : Practical Advice 

to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and 
Frame Garden. By Gborgb Glbnnv. Post 8vo, cloth hmp, 2s. 6d. 

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we 

Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the 
Rent/* &c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, ». 6d, 

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom 
and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s, 6d. 

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. By Francis 

George Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, jr. 



!• BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 

One Shilling Monthly. 

QentlemaQ's Magazine (The), for 1882. 

The } ANY ART Number of this Periodical will contain the First Chapters 
of a New Serial Story, entitled " Dust," by Julian Hawthorns, 
Aathor of "Garth." &c. "Science Notes/' by W. Mattibu 
Williams, F.R.A.S./will also be continued monthly. 

%* Now ready t the Volume for January to Junb, z88z, cl$th extra, 
price 8j. 6d,; and Cases /or dinding, price as, each. 

Demy 8vo, illuminated cover, \s. 

Gentleman's Annual, The. 

containing Two Complete Novels. \Mov* xs. 

THE RUSKIN GR/MM.— Square Sro, doth extra, 6s. 6d. ; 

gilt edges, 7s, 6d, 

German Popular Stories. 

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor. 

Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With aa Illustrations 

after the inimiuble designs of George Cruikshank. Both Series 

Complete. 
*' Tkt illustraiiont ^ this volume . . . are of ^iU tterUti^ and admdrabU 
mrtt i ' ~ 
tkey 

trofuit fin some quaUHes of deUneaiion^ unrivalled even by him), , . » To make 
to$newhai enlarf^ed copies 0/ them, looking at them throurh a magnifying glatSf 
and never futtmg two Une* where Cruikshank has put only one, would he an exes^ 
cise in decision emd severe drawing which would leave afterwards UsUe to be learmi 
in schools!*— 'Extract from Introauction by John Ruskin. 

Post Svo, doth limp, aj. 6d, 

Glenny's A Year's Work in Garden and 

Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Manage- 
ment of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glbnny. 

" A great deed of valuable infifrmettion, conveyed in very simple language. The 
amatntr need not wish for a better guide** — Leeds Mbrcurv. 

Crown Svo, doth gilt and gilt edges, js. 6d, 

Golden Treasury of Thought, The : 

An Encyclop.£dia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and 
Countries. Sdected and Edited by Theodore Taylor 

New and Cheaper Edition, demy Svo, doth extra, with Illustrations, 7S,6d, 

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the. 

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Guhl and W. 
KOMER. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited bf 
Br. F. HUEFFER. With 545 Illustrations. 




CHATTO <&• WIND US, PICCADILLY. 



II 



Squara z6ino (Tauchnitz size) 

Oolden Library, The ; 

Ballad History of England. By 

W. C. Bbnnbtt. 

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of 

the Echo Club. 

Byron's Don Juan* 
Emerson's Letters and Soolal 

Aims. 

Godwin's CWllUam) Lives of 

the Necromancers. 

Holmes's Autocrat of the 

Breakfast Table. With an Introduc- 
tion by G. A. Sala. 

Holmes's Professor at the 

Breakfast Table. 

Hood's Whims and Oddities. 

Complete. With aU the original Il- 
lustrations. 

Irvlng's (Washington) Tales of 

a Traveller. 

Irving's (Washington) Tales of 

the Alhambra. 

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and 

Occupations of Country Life. 

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both 

Series Complete in One VoU 

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale 

for a Chimney Comer, and other 
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduc- 
tion by Edmund Ollier. 



, dotk extra, or. per yolume. 



Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort 

d'Arthur : The Stories of King Arthur 
and of the Knights of the Round 
Table. Edited by B, MoNTGOMBKni 
Ranking. 

Pascal's Frovinoial Letters. A 

New Translation, with Historical In- 
troduction and Notes, by T. M'Cri>, 
D.D. 

Pope's Poetical Works. Com- 
plete. 

Bochefoucanld's Maxims and 

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and 
an Introductory Essay by Saznib- 
Beuve. 

St Pierre's Paul And Virginia, 

and The Indian Cottage. Edited, 
with Life, by the Rev. £. Cuoucb. 

Shelley's Early Poems, and 

Sueen Mab, with Essay by Lbigh 
UNT. 

Shelley's Later Poems : Loon 

and Cythna, &c 

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, 

the Shelley Papers, &c. 

Shelley's Prose Works, indiid« 

ing A Refutation of Deism, Zastrosn, 
St. Irvyne, &c 

White's Natural History of Sel* 

borne. Edited, with Additions, by 
Thomas Brown, F.L.S. 



Crown 8yo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 4; . 6d. 

Qnyot's Earth and Man; 

or, Physical Geography in its Relation to the History of Maakiad* 
With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Grat ; za Maps 
and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and copious Index. 

Hake (Dr. Thomas Oordon)^ Poems by : 

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, 8x. 

New Symbols. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6^ . 

Legends of the Morrow. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. 

Medium Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js, 6d, 

Hall's (Mrs. S. C.) Sketches of Irish Character. 

With nnmeroos Illustrations on Steel and Wood by Macusb, Gix«- 
BBRT, Harvet, and G. Cruikshank. 

" TM£ JrUk Sktichis qf this lady memblt Mitt MiifirdU Uau^ful Mnglitk 
tkeichet in * Our Villa^,* hut they are far mere vigerout and ^icturetque and 
^nS^."— Blackwood's Magazine. 



13 BOOJCS PUBLISHED BY 



Haweis (Mrs.), Works by : 

The Art of I>reB8. By Mrs. H. R. Hawsis. Illustrated by the 

Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, x«. ; doth limp, u. 6d» 

**A weU-coHsidertd attempt to afpfy canons t^ goodtusU to tkoeothtmoa 
of ladu* 0/ our timo, .... Mrs. Hameis writes frankly and to tko 
^nt^ she doss not mince matters, hut hoidfy remonstrates with her ovn sex 

on thefitlUss they isidulg^ in We may recommend ike hook to tko 

ladies whom it concerns.**— Atkkujevu, 

The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo, 

cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly xoo 
Illustxations, los. 6d, 

The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo, 

handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, tos, 6d. 

*«* See also Chaucer,/. 5 of tkis Caiaktgme. 

j^ Crovni 8vo, doth extra, $s. 

Heath (P. G.)— My Garden Wild, 

And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of 
" The Fern World," &c 

SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Crown 8vo, doth extra, df. 

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense. 

A Cap with Seven Bells. 

" The merits of the hook cannot he fairly estimated hy means of a few extracts ; 
it should be read at length to he appelated properly, and, in our opinion^ its 
merits entitle it to be very widely read indeed** —St. James's Gazette. 

Cr. 8vo, bound in parchment, 8j. ; Lai^e-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15;. 

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of 

Cherbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Churton Collins. 
Complete in Four Vols., demy Svo, doth extra, zai. eadi. 

History of Our Own Times, from the Accession 

of Queen Victoria to the General Election of 188a By Justin 
McCarthy, M.P. 

^Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little but approved. 
Tkit is a really good hook on a really interesting subject, and words pUed on words 
could say no more for (/."—Saturday Review. 

New Work by the Author of '' A HISTORY of OUR OWN TIMES." 
Four Vols, demy 8vo, doth extra, i2j. each. 

History of the Four Georges. 

By Justin McCarthy, M.P. \_In preparation. 

Crown 8vo, doth limp, with Illustrations, ai. 6d, 

Holmes's The Science of Voice Production 

and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speaken 
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, L.R.C. P. E. 



CHATTO <&• WIND US, PICCADILLY. 13 



Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. 6^. 

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works^ 

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals. 
With Life of the Author. Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrationa. 

Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6f. 

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North 

Pole : A Noah's Arkaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations bf 
W. Brunton and £. C. Barnes. 

•• ThM amusing letUr^is is profusely interspersed vfiih the jingling rkymet 
which children Icve and learn so easily. Messrs. Brunton and Barnes do fuU 
justice to the writer's meanings and a pleasanter result of the harmanunu M» 
deration 0/ autho r and artist could not oe desired." —Times. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js, 6d. 

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works, 

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-inots, Puns, and Hoazesi 
With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and Illustrations> 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, ys. 

Home's Orion : 

An Epic Poem in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Hornb. 
With a brief Commentary by the Author. With Photographic Portrait 
from a Medallion by Summers. Tenth Edition. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7J. 6d, 

Howell's Conflicts of Capital and Labour 

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and 
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, showing their Origin, 
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Sodal, Eco- 
noi]5(»l, and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell. 

*' This hooh is an attempt, and on the whole a successful attempt, to flact the 
work of trade unions in the Past, and their objects in the future, fairfy before tk€ 
publ ic from the working man* s point ofview/'—VKLL Mall Gazbttb. 

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12S, 6d, 

Hneffer's The Troubadours : 

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By 
F rancis Huf.ffer. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, (is, 

Janvier.— Practical Keramics for Students. 

By Catherine A. Janvier. 

" Will be found a useful han ibook by those who wish to try the manufactur§ 
or decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to know something 
of the tfr^. "— Mor nin g Post . 

A New Edition, Revised and partly Re- written, with several New 
Chapters and Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 71. 6^ 

Jennings' The Rosicrucians : 

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and 
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five fiiU- 
page Hates and upwards of 300 Illustrations, 



14 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 

• • ■ — • — . ' . ■ ■ 

Jerrold (Tom), Works by: 

Household Hortioulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom 
and Jane Jbrkold. Illustrated. Post Svo^ cloth limp, 9s.6d, 

Oar Eltohen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook 
Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of ** The Garden that Paid the Rent,'* 
&c Post 8vo^ cloth limp, ax. 6d, 

" 7*A/ combination of kintt on cookery with gardening has heen very cleverh 
cetrried out, and the result is an interesting and highly instructive little •worK 
Mr, Jerrold is correct in savine that English ^ople do not make half thense of 
vegetablesthey might ; and by snowing haw easily they can be grown, ana so obtained 
fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them mare po/^ularP-^DAiLy Chromiclb. 

Two Vols. 8vo, with 53 Illustrations and Maps, doth extra, gilt, X4i, 

Josephns, The Complete Works of. 

Translated by Whiston. Containing both ** The Antiquitiei of tb« 
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews." 

; ' ■ ■ ■ — 

Small 8vo, doth, full gilt, gilt edges, ¥9th Illustrations, 6f. 

Eavanaghs' Pearl Fonntain, 

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and JuUA Ravanagh. With 
Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith. 

" Genuine new fairy stories of the old tyfe^ seme nf them at deUghifiU eu ihs 

best of Grimn^s* German Popular Stories J .... For the most part ths 

itories are downright^ thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable kind, 

. • . Mr, Moyr SmiiKs tUustrationsx too, are admirable.**— SncTATOM* 

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s, 

(The) and the Dwarf. 

By Charles Mills. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas 
Lindsay. [In the press ^ 

* ■ ■ ■ — ■ 

Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, ai. 6<f. 

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and 

Imitate it. By Daisy Waterhousb Hawkins. With 17 Illustra- 
tions by the Author. 

Crown 8vo, doth elytra, gilt, with Portraits, 7i.6<f. 

Lamb's Complete Works, 

In Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Original Editions, with many 
Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with Notes and Introduction^ 
by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and Facsinule of a Page 
%A the " Essay on Roast Pig." 

^A complete edition of Lamb*s writings, in prose and verse, has long been 
wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains 
^ bring together Lamvs scattered contributions, and his collection contains a 
number 0/ pieces which are now reproduced for the fi^st time sina their originai 
appeanmee in various 0idperiodicals,**SATVtii>AV Rbvibw. 



CHAT70 6* WIND US, PICCADILLY. IS 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, with numerous Illustrations, xor. 6A 

^amb (Mary and Charles) : 

Their Poems, Letters, and Remains. With Reminiscences and Notes 
by W. Carbw Hazlitt. With Hancock's Portrait of the Essayist, 
Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare First Editions of Lamb's and 
Coleridge's Works* and numerous Illustrations. 

*' Vtiy many^taget will dtlight thou /and of UiorMy trifltMl hartUf amf 
^criion will fail m itUtrtst fitr lavtrs o/Ckarl4tLambaMdhuti*Ur.**'SrAiKDAMD. 

Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5; . 

Lamb's Poetry for Children^ and Prince 

Dorus. Carefully Reprinted from unique copies. 

*' Tkt fuamt and dgUghtful Uttlt hooky over tfu recovery of which allthi heartt 
^f hit lovers are yet warm with rejoicing*' — A. C. Swinbuknb. 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, 6j. 

Lares and Penates; 

Or, The Background of Life. By Florencb Caddy, 

** The whole book is well worth readings /or it is/ull 0/ poetical suggettiont, 
'. > . . IVe hope nobody will be deterred /rom taking vp a book which teachet 
gfod deal about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy «»##."— 
Graphic. 

Crown 8vo, cloth, full gilt, dr. 

Leigh's A Town Garland. 

By Henry S. Leigh, Author of "Carols of Cockayne." 

*'// Mr. Leigh* t verse survive to a future generation-'-and there is no reason 
why that honour should not be accorded productions so delicate, so finished, and so 
fuU of humour — their author will probably he remombered as the Poet 0/ the 
Strand"— 'Athbnmvm.. 

Second Edition.— down 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, dr. 

Leisure-Time Studies, ohiefly Biological. 

By Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on Zoology and Compara- 
tive Anatomy in the Edinburgh Medical School. 

**It is well when we eon take up the work of a really qualified investigator^ 
who in the intervals e/hii more senaus professional labours sets himse(fto imfari 
knowledge in such a simple ahd elementary form as may attract and instruct, 
with no danger tf misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this 
little volume t made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr, 
Andrew Wilson^ lecturer and examiner in sciettce at Edinburgh and Glasgow, at 
leisure intervals in a busy professional ii/e. . . . Dr. IVilson's pages teem with 
matter stimulating to a healthy love qf science and a reverence for the truths 
0/ «<»/■»»*.•'— Saturday Rbvikw. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with illustrations, yj. 6^. 

Life in London; 

or^ The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With tha 
whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals. 



l6 BOOKS PUBLISHED B} 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, df. 

Lights on the Way : 

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander, B.A. 
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of 
•'Thoreaui A Study." 

Crown 8to, doth extra, with Illustrations, yj. 6d, 

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works. 

Induding *' Outre Mer." *• Hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The PocU 
and Poetry of Europe," and " Driftwood." With Portrait and Illus- 
trations by Valentine Bromley. 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, yj. 6d, 

Longfellow's Poetical Works. 

Carefully Reprinted from the Original Editions. With nnmerons 
fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood. 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, $$, 

Lnnatic Asylmn, My Experiences in a. 

By a Sane Patient. 

*' TJkd itory is cUvtr and inttretHng, sad bsycnd measurt thcugh tk4 suif^et 
H» Then is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. IVhatever may 
haoe been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to am 
msyhsm, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrott this booh; it it 
bright, cabn^ and to /A/ /mm/."— Spectator. 

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, doth boards, x8j. 

Lnsiad (The) of Camoens. 

Translated into English Spenserian verse by Robert Ffrench Duff» 
Knight Commander of the Portuguese Royal Order of Christ. 

Mallock's (W. H.) Works : 

Is Life Worth Living P By William Hurrell Mallock. 

New Edition, crown 8vo, doth extra, 6s, 

'* This deeply interesting volume It is the maei powerful viso' 

dieation ofrtUgion^ both natural and revealed, that has e^peared since Bishop 
Butler wrote, and is much more useful than either the AneU<^ or the Ser* 
mens (if that great divine, as a nffutation ^ thePecuUar form assumed by 

the infidelity of the present day Deeply philosophical as the booh 

iSf there is not a heavy page in it. The writer is * possessed,* so to ^eetk, 
with his great subject, has sounded its depths, surveyed it in all its ejetemL 
and brought to bear on it all the resources of a vivid, rich, and impeusioned 
style, as well as an adequate acquaintance with the science, the phUos^l^t 
and the literature of the daf,**—\KiSH. Daily Nbws. 

The New Bepnblic ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an 
English Country House. By W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, clodi limp, m. 6d» 

The New Paul and Virginia ; or. Positivism on an Island. By 

W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, doth limp, ax. 6d, 

Foemi. By W. H. Mallock. Small 4to, bound in parchment, &• 
A Romance of the Nineteenth Oentnry. Bv W. H. Mallqcr. 

Second Edition, with a Preface. Two Vols., crown.8vo, 2x«. 



CHATTO 6* IVINDUS, PICCADILLY. 17 

Maoqnoid (Mrs.), Works by: 

In the Ardexmes. By Katha&ins S. Macquotd. With 

50 fine Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Uaifona with " Picture* 
and L^ends.** Square 8vo, cloth extra, xot. 6d, 

" Thu i* anothtr rf Mrt. M«uquind*t pUasant bookt of travel^ fuU of usefitl 
\ htformatioHt of picturesq-ue eUscriptions of scenery t and of quaint traditions 
rtsptcting the various monuments and ruins which she encounters in her 
tour, , , . To such of our readers as are alrea<fy thinking about the year's 
holiday t we strongly recommend the perusal of Airs. Macouoids experiences* 
The book is well illustrated by Mr, Thomas R, Macquoid.*'— Graphic, 

Plotares and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By 

Katharinb S. Macquoid. With numemiis Illustrations by Thomas R. 
Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, \os. 6d, 

Through Normandy. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With 

90 Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, js, 6d, 

" One of the few hooks which can be read as apiece of literature, whilst ai 
the same time handy in the knapsack,**— Biarisu Quarterly Rbvibw. 

Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With 

numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. 8vo, cloth extra, js, 6d, 
" The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Macquoid offers, while wander* 
inf^from one point of interest to another, seems to throw a renewed chame 
arotmd each oft-depicted scene,**— Monf* ing Post. 

Mark Twain's Works: 

The Oholce Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected 

throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustra- 
tions. Crown 8vo^ cloth extra, js. 6d, 

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With 

100 lUustraticnis. Small 8vo, doth extra, js, 6d, Cheap Edition, illustrated 
boards, as, 

A Pleasure Trip on the Oonthient of Europe : The Innocents 

Abroad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress. By Marx Twain. Post 8vo* 
illustrated boards, as. 

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Ma&k Twain. 

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, as, 

A Tramp Abroad. By Mark Twain. With 314 Illnstrations. 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, ys, 6d. 

*' The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living man l$ti 
Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wottderful 
feeling for animals thai is manifest in every line, make ofeM this episode oj 
yim Baker tmd his jays a piece of work thai is not only delightful as mere 
reading, but also of a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The book is 
full of good things, and contMUS passages and episodes that are equal to thg 
funniest of those that have gone before,**— Athkhmvu, 

The Prince and the Pauper. By Mark Twain, With nearly 

200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, doth extra, 7; . 6d. Uniform with " A Tramp 
Abroad." [/« thepress^ 

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New Pilgrim's Progress : 
Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure £xcursion 
to Europe and the Holy Land, with descriptions of Countries, Nations, 
^ Incidents, and Adventures, as they appeared to the Author. With 234, 

Illustrations. By Mark Twain. Crown 8vo, doth extra, js. 6d. Unifonn 
with " A Tramp Abroad." [/» the press. 



i8 



BOOJCS PUBLISHED BY 



Crown 8vo, doth extra, wilh illostratioos, 9J. 6^.-' 

Madre Natura v. The Moloch of Fashion. 

By LuKB Limner. With 33 lUustratioiis by the Author. Fourth 
Edition, revised and enlarged. 

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 51. 

Magna Charta. 

An exact Facsimile of the Original Docmnent in the British Museum, 
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by a feet wide, with the 
Arms and Seab emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 

Post 8vo, cloth limp, ai. ^d, per volume. 



Mayfair Library, The 

The New Bepablla ByW. H. 
Maixock. 

The New Paul and Yirgiiila. 

By W. H. Mallock. 

The True History of Joshua 

Davidson. By S. Lynn Linton. 

OldStorlesBe-told. By Waltbr 

Thornbury. 
Thoreau ; His Life and Almi . 

By H. A. Pagb. 

By Stream and Sea. By Wil- 
liam Senior. 
Jeuz d'Usprlt Edited by Henry 

S. Leigh* 
Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh 

ROWLBY. 

More Puniana. By the Hon. 

Hugh Rowley. 

Pack on PegasuB. By H. 

Cholmondblby-Pbnnblu 
The Speeches of Oharlee 

Dickens. 

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by 
H. Cholmondblby-Pbnnell. 

Gastronomy as a Fine Art By 

Brillat-Sayarin. 

The Philosophy of Hand- 
writing. By D«N Fblix db Sala- 

JT MANCA. 

Curiosities of Criticism. By 

Hbkry J. Jbnnings. 

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, 

Follies, Frolics. By W. T. Dobson. 

Pencil and Palette. By Robert 
Kbmpt. 

%* Other Volumes 



Original Plays by W. S. Gil- 
bert. First Series. Containing; 
The Wicked World— Pygmalion and 
Galatea — Charity— The Princess— 
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury. 

Original Plays by W. S. Gil* 

BERT. Second Sbribs. Containing: 
Broken Hearts — £ngaged — Sweet- 
hearts — Dan'l Druce — Gretchen— 
Tom Cobb— The Sorcerer— H.M.S. 
Pinafore — The Pirates of Penzance. 

Latter-Day Lyrics. Edited by 
W. Davenport Adams. 

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry 

S. Leigh. 

The Book of Clerical Anec- 
dotes. By Jacob Larwood. 
The Agony Column of "The 

Times/' from xSooto 1870. Edited, 
with an Introduction, by Aucb Clay. 

The Cupboard Papers. By 

Fin-Bec. 

Pastimes and Players. By 

Robert Macgrbgob. 

Melancholy Anatomised : A 

Popular Abridgment of " Burton's 
Anatomy of Melancholy." 

Quips and Quiddities. Selected 

by W; Davbnport Aoams. 

Leiyes from a Naturalist's 

Note- Book. By Andrew Wilson, 
F. R. S. E. [In the press. 

The Autocrat of the Break- 

fa&t-Table. By Oliver Wendell 
Holmes. Illustrated by J. G. Thom- 
son. [/» thepress^ 

are in preparmHoK^ 



CHATTO 6* WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 19 

Small 8to, doth limp, with Illustrations, aj. M 

Miller's Physiology for the Yonng; 

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology, with its Apiriications to 
the Preserration of Health. For use in Cliu^ and Popular Reading* 
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fsnwick Miller. 



ff 



^An admirabU introduetiffn to a miject which M wh^ vaiug htaUh ami tnjoy 
U/t ihould haw mt thtirfingert' m^.'^Echo. 

MUton (J. L.), Works by : 

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the 

Management of the Skin ; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths 
&c. By J. L. Milton, Senior Surgeon to St. John's Hospital. Smal 
8vo, zx.; cloth extra, ix. ttd. 

The Bath In Dlseaseg of the Sltln. Small 8yo, \s,\ dothextrai 

zx. td. 

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 71. 6^. 

North Italian Folk. 

By Mrs. Comyns Carr. Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott. 

*' A tUUghifulhooh, of a hind which is far too rarg. If eu^om wants to rtally 
kmow ths North Italianfolh^ wo can honestly advise him to omit the journey ^^ and 
read Mrs. Cam^s pages instead. . . Description with Mrs, Carr is a reaigi/t* • 
// is rarely that a booh is so happily illi«strated,*''~K^vrKUFORARY Rbvikw. 

N£H^ NOVELS NOW IN THE PRESS. 

A NEW NOVEL BY OUIDA. 

The Title of which will shortly be announced. 3 vols., crown 8vo. 

SOMETHING IN THE CITY. 

By Georgb Augustus Sal a. 3 vols, crown 8vo. 

GOD AND THE MAN. 

By Robert Buchanan, Author of" The Shadow of the Sword," &c. 3 vola^ 
crown 8vo. 

THE COMET OF A SEASON. 

By Justin McCarthy, M.P., Author of "Miss Misanthrope." 3 v#Is;, 
crown 8vo. 

JOSEPH'S COAT. 

By David Christie Murray, Author of " A Life*s Atonement," &c. With 
13 Illustrations by Fred. Barnard. 

PRINCE SARONI'S WIFE, and other Stories. 

By Julian Hawthorne. 3 vols., crown 8vo. 

A HEART'S PROBLEM. 

By Charles Gibbon, Author of " Robin Gray," &c. 2 vols, crown 8v», 

THE BRIDE'S PASS. 

By Sarah Tytler, 3 vols., crown 8vo. 



BOOKS PU BUSHED BY 



Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits» price 61. per Vol. 

Old Dramatists, The : 



Ben Jonson's Works. 

With Notes, Critical and Explanatory, 
and a Biogxaphical Memoir by Wil- 
~ by Col 



LiAM GiPFORD. Edited 
Cunningham. Three Vols^ 



>U»el 



Ohapman's Works. 

Now First Collected. Complete in 
Three Vols. VoL I. contains the Plays 
complete, including the doubtful onesj 
Vol. II. the Poems and Minor Trans- 
lations, with an Introductory Essay 



br Algbrnon Charlbs Swinbotkitb. 
Vol. III. the Translations of the Iliad 
and Odyssey. 

Marlowe's Works. 

Including his Translations. Edited, 
with Notes and Introduction, by CoU 
Cunningham. One VoL 
Massinger'fl Plays. 

From the Text of William Gippokd. 
With the addition of the Tragedy of 
'• Believe as you List." Edited by 
Col. Cunningham. One VoL 



O'Shaughnessy (Arthur) Works by : 

Songs of a Worker. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap. 

8vo, cloth extra, js. td, 

Musio and Moonlight. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap. 

8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. 

Lays of France. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Crown 8vo, 

cloth extra, lor. 6d. 



PasoareL By Ouida. 

Two Wooden Shoes. By Ouida. 



Crown 8vo, red cloth extra, 55. each. 

Onida's Novels.— Library Edition. 

Held in Bondage. By Ouida. 

Strathmore. By Ouida. 

Chandos. By Ouida. 

Under Two Flags. By Ouida. 

Idalia. By Ouida. 

Oeoll Oastlemalne. By Ouida. 

Trlootrin. By Ouida. 

Fuok. By Ouida. 

FoUe FArlne. By Ouida. 



Slgna. 

In a Winter Oity. 

Ariadne. 

Friendship. 

Moths. 

Pipistrello. 



By Ouida. 
By Ouida. 
By Ouida. 
By Ouida. 
By Ouida. 
By Ouida. 



A Village Commune. By Ouida. 
Dog of Flanders. By Ouida. 

. *«* Also a Cheap Edition of all but the last two. post 8vo, illustrated 
boards, ar. each. 

Post 8vo, cloth limp, is, 6d, 

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Hand- 
book ot By Hbnry W. Lucy. 

Large 4to, cloth extra, gUt, beautifully Illustrated, 31J. 6d, 

Pastoral Days ; 

Or, Memories of a New England Year. By W. Hamilton Gibson. 
With 76 Illustrations in the highest style of Wood Engraving. 

" TA€ volume amtains a ^ote poentf •with illustrations in th* shape of wood 
4n)(ravings more beauti/ul thin it can well enter into the hearts of most men t0 
conceive. ' —Scotsman. 



CHATTO 6* WINDUS^ PICCADILLY. 



21 



Library Editions, mostly Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 31. 6</. each* 

Piccadilly Novels, The. 



Maid, Wife, or Widow? By 

Mrs. Alexander. 
Beady-Money Mortlboy. By 
W. Bbsant and James Rice. 

My LltUe OirL By W. Bbsant 

and Jambs Rice. 
The Case of Mr. Luoraft. By 

W. Bbsant and James Ricb. 

This Son of Vuloan. By W. 

Bbsant and Jambs Rice. 
With Harp and Crown. By W. 

Bbsant and Jambs Rice. 
The Qolden Butterfly. By W. 

Bbsant and Jambs Ricb. 
By Celia'8 Arbour. By W. 

Bbsant and Jambs Rice. 
The Monks of Thelema. By 

W. Bbsant and Jambs Ricb. 

*Twa8 in Trafalgar's Bay, By 

W. Bbsant and Jambs Ricb. 

The Seamy Side. By Walter 

Bbsant and Jambs Ricb. 

Antonina. By Wilkie Collins. 
Basil. By Wilkie Collins. 
Hide and Seek. W. Collins. 
The Dead Seoret W. Collins. 
Queen of Hearts. W. Collins. 
My Miscellanies. W. Collins. 
The Woman in White. By 

Wilkib Collins. 

The Moonstone. W. Collins. 
Man and Wife. W. Collins. 
Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins. 
Miss or Mrs. P By W. Collins. 
The New Magdalen. By Wilkie 

Collins. 

The Frozen Deep. W. Collins. 
The Law and the Lady. By 
Wilkib Collins. 

The Two Destinies. By Wilkie 

Collins. 

The Haunted Hotel. By Wilkie 

Collins. 

The Fallen Leaves. By Wilkib 

Collins. 

Jezebel's Daughter. W. Collins. 
Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. H. 
LovBTT Cameron. 



Juliet's Quardian. By Mrs. H. 

LoVBTT CaMBRON. 

Felicia. M. Betham-Edwards. 
Olympia. By R. £. Francillon. 
The Capel Girls. By Edward 
Garrbtt. 

Robin Gray. Charles Gibbon. 
For Lack of Gold. By Charles 

Gibbon. 

In Love and War. By Chablbs 

Gibbon. 
What Will the World Say P By 
Charlbs Gibbon. 

For the King. Charles Gibbon. 
In Honour Bound. By Charles 

Gibbon. 

Queen of the Meadow. By 

Charles Gibbon. 

In Pastures Green. By Charles 

Gibbon. 

Under the Greenwood Tree. 

By Thomas Hardy. 

Garth. By Julian Hawthorne. 
EUice Quentin. By Julian 

Hawthornb. 
Thomicroft's ModeL By Mrs. 

A. W. Hunt. 

Fated to be Free. By Jean 

Ingblow. 

Confidence. Henry James, Jun. 

The Queen of Connanght. By 

Harriett Jay. 
The Dark Colleen. By H. Jay. 
Number Seventeen. By Henry 

KiNGSLBY. 

Oakshott CasUe. H. Kingsley. 

Patricia Kemball. By E. Lynn 
Linton. 

The Atonement of Learn Dun- 
das. By £. Lynn Linton. 

Tne World Well Lost. 

Lynn Linton. 

LordP 



Under which 

Lynn Linton. 

With a Silken Thread. 

Lynn Linton. 

The Waterdale Neighbours. 

By Justin McCarthy. 



ByE. 

By E. 

ByE. 



22 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



Piccadilly Novels — continued. 



My Enemy's Daughter. By 

JusTiK McCarthy. 

Iilnley Rochford. By Justin 

McCarthy. 

A Fair Saxon. J. McCarthy. 
Dear Lady Disdain. By Justin 

McCarthy. 

Miss Misanthrope. By Justin 

McCarthy. 

Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy. 

Quaker Cousins. By Agnes 

Macdonbll. 
Lost Rose. By Katharine S. 

Macquoid. 

The Evil Eye. By Katharine 

S. Macquoid. 

Open I Sesame I By Florence 

Marryat. 
Written in Plre. F. Marryat. 
Touch and Go. By Jean Mid- 

dlbbiass. 
A Life's Atonement. By D. 

Christih Murray. 
Whiteladles. Mrs. Oltphant. 
The Best of Husbands. By 

Jambs Payn. 



Fallen Fortunes. James Payn. 
Halyes. By James Payn. 
Walter's Word. James Payn. 
What He Cost Her. J. Payn. 
Less Black than we're Painted. 

By Jambs Payn. 

By Proxy. By James Payn. 
Under One "Root James Payn. 
High Spirits. By James Payn. 
Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs. 

J. H. RiDDBLL. 

Bound to the Wheel. By John 

Saundbrs. 

Ouy Waterman. J. Saunders. 
One ik gainst the World. By 

John Saundbrs. 
The Lion in the Path. 

John Saundbrs. 

The Way We Live Now. 

Anthony Trollops. 

The American Senator. 

Anthony Trollops. 

Diamond Cut Diamond. 
T. A. Trollops. 



By 

By 
By 
By 



NEW VOLUMES OF " THE PICCADILLY NOVELS" 

Now in thi press. 



A Confidential i^gent. By 

James Payn. With 12 Illustrations 
ky Arthur Hopkins. 

The Violin.Player. By Bertha 

Thomas. 
Queen Cophetua. By R. E. 

Francillon. 
The Leaden Casket. By Mrs. 

Alfred Hunt. 

Oarlyon's Ifear. By J. Payn. 
The Ten Years' Tenant, and 

other Stories. By Walter Besant 
and James Ricb. 

A Ohiid of Nature. By Robert 

BVCHANAN. 

CresBida. By Bertha Thomas. 
From Exile. By James Payn. 



Sebastian Strome. By Julian 

Hawthorns. 

The Black Robe. By Wilkie 

Collins. 
Archie Lovell. By Mrs. Annie 

Edwardes. 

"My Love I" By E. Lynn 

Linton. [Payn. 

Lost Sir Massingberd . By James 
The Chaplain of the Fleet By 

Walter Bbsant and Jambs Rick. 

Proud Maisie. By Bertha 
Thomas. 

The Two Dreamers. By John 

Saunders. 

What She Came through. By 

Sarah Tytler. 



Crown 8vo, doth extra, 6s, 

Planche.—Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879. 

By J. R. Planche. Edited, with an Introduction, by his Daughter. 
Mrs. Mackarness. -o . 



CHATTO d* iriNDUS, PICCADILLY. 



23 



Post 8vOk ilhutrated boards, ai • each. 

Poptilar Novels, Cheap Editions of. 

[Wiucn CoLUNs' NoVBLS smd Bssant and Ricb*s Novbls may also be had in 
dodi limp at %s, 6J, Stt, t»o, tkt Piccadilly Novels,/^ Library EdiimuJ} 



Oonfidenoes. Hamilton Aid£« 
Carr of Oarrlyon. H. Aid£. 
Maid, Wife, or Widow P By 

Mrs. Albxandbk. 

Beady-Money Mortlboy. By 

Waltbx Bbsant and Jambs Ricb. 

With Harp and Crown. By 

Walt BR Bbsakt and Jambs Ricb 

This Son of Yiiloan. By W. 

Bbsant and Jambs Ricb. 
VLj Little Girl. By the same. 
The Oaae of Mr. LuorafL By 

Walter Bbsant and Jambs Ricb. 

The Oolden Butterfly. By W. 

Bbsant and Jambs Ricb. 

By Oelia's Arbour. By Walter 

Bbsant and Jambs Rice. 
The MonkB of Thelema. By 
Walter Bbsant and Jambs Ricb. 

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By 

Walter Bbsant and Jambs Rice. 
Seamy Side. Besant and Rice. 
Oraintley Grange. By Shelsley 

Bbauchamp. 

An Heiress of Bed Dog. By 

Bret Harte. 

The Luok of Bearing Camp. 

By Bret Harte. 

Gabriel Oonroy. Bret Harte. 
Surly Tim. By F. £. Burnett. 
Deoeivers Bver. By Mrs. L. 
Cameron. 

JuUet's Guardian. By Mrs. 

LoTBTT Cameron. 

The Oure of Souls, By Mac- 

LARBN Cobban. 
The Bar Sinister. By C. 

Allst^n Collins. 

Antonlna. By Wilkib Collins. 
Basil. By Wilkie Collins. 
Hide and Seek. W. Collins. 
The Dead Secret. W. Collins. 
Queen of Hearts. W. Collins. 
My Misoellanies. W. Collins. 
Woman in White. W.Collins. 
The Moonstone. W. Collins. 



Man and Wife. W. Collins. 
Poor Miss Flnoh. W. Collins. 
Miss or Mrs. P W. Collins. 
New Magdalen. W. Collins. 
The Frozen Deep. W. Collins. 
Law and the Lady. W. Collins. 
Two Destinies. W. Collins. 
Haunted HoteL W. Collins. 
Fallen Leaves. By W.Collins. 
Leo. ByDuTTON Cook. 
A Point of Honour. By Mrs. 

Annie Edwardbs. 
ArchieLoyell. MrsA.EowARDSS 
Felicia. M. Betham-Edwards. 
Rozy. By Edward Eggleston. 
Polly. By Percy Fitzgerald. 
Bella Donna. P. Fitzgerald. 
Never Forgotten. Fitzgerald. 
The Second Mrs. Tillotson. By 

Percy Fitzgerald. 

Seventy-FiveBrookeStreet. By 

Percy Fitzgerald. 

Filthy Luore. By Albany dx 

FONBLANQUB. 

Olympia. By R. E. Francillon. 
The Oapel Girls. By £dwar» 

Garrett. 

Robin Gray. By Chas. Gibbon. 
For Lack of Gold. C. GiBBeN. 
What will the World Say P By 

Charles Gibbon. 

In Honour Bound. C. Gibbon. 
The Dead Heart. By C. Gibbon. 
In Love and War. C. Gibbon. 
For the Sing. By C. Gibbon. 
Queen of the Meadow. By 

Charles Gibbon. 

Dick Temple. By James 

Greenwood. 

Every-day Papers. By Andrew 

Halliday. 

Paul Wsrnter's Sacriflce. By 

Lady Duffus Harry. 

Under the Greenwood Tree. 

By Thomas Hardy. 



24 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



Popular Novels — continued, 
G-arth. By Julian Hawthorne. 
Oolden Heart By Tom Hood. 
TheHunohbaok of Notre Dame. 

By Victor Hugo. 
Thomicroft's ModeL By Mrs. 

Alfred Hunt. 

Fated to be Free. By Jean 

Ingblow. 

Oonfidenoe. By Henry James, 

Jun. 

The Queen of Oonnauglit. By 

Harristt Jav. 

The Dark OoUeen. By H. Jay. 
Number Seventeen. By Henry 

KiNGSLEY. 

OakBbott OaBtle. H. Kingsley. 
Patricia KembalL By £ . Lynn 

Linton. 

Learn Dundaa. E.LynnLinton. 

The World Well Lost. By £. 
Lynn Linton. 

Under which Lord P By £. 

Lynn Linton. 

The Waterdale Neighbours. 

By Justin McCarthy. 

DearLadyDladaln. By the same. 

My Enemy's Daughter. By 

Justin McCarthy. 

A Fair Sazon. J. McCarthy. 
Llnley Boohford. McCarthy. 
Miss Misanthrope. McCarthy. 
Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy. 
TheSvU Eye. By Katharine 
S. Macquoid. 

Lost Bose. K. S. Macquoid. 
Open ! Sesame 1 By Floren ce 

Marryat. 
Harvest of Wild Oats. By 
Florence Marryat. 

A Little Stepson. F. Marryat. 
Fighting the Air. F. Marryat. 
Touch and Go. By Jean 

MiDDLBMASS. 

Mr. Dorlllion. J. Middlemass. 
Whlteladles. ByMrs.QLiPHANT. 
Held In Bondage. By OuirA. 
Strathmore. By Guida. 
Ohandos. By Ouida. 
Under Two Flags. By Ouida. 
Idalla. By Ouida. i. 



Oeeil OasUemalne. By Ouida. 

Triootrln. By Ouida. 

Puck. By Ouida. 

FoUe Farlne. By Ouida. 

A Dog of Flanders. By Ouida. 

Pascarel. By Ouida. 

Two Little Wooden Shoes. By 

Ouida. 

Signa. By Ouida. 
In a Winter Olty. By Ouida. 
Ariadne. By Ouida. 
Friendship. By Ouida. 
Moths. By Ouida. 
Lost Sir MsBsingberd. J. Payn. 
A Perfect Treasure. J. Pay.n, 
Bentinok*s Tutor. By J. Payn. 
Murphy's Master. By J. Payn. 
A County Family. By J. Payn . 
At Her Mercy. By J. Payn. 
AWoman'sVengeance. J. Payn. 
Cecil's Tryst. By James Payn. 
The Clyflfards of Clyffe. J.Payn. 
Family Scapegrace. J.Payn.. 
The Foster Brothers. J. Payn. 
Found Dead. By James Payn 
Gwendollne'sHarvest. J.Payn. 
Humorous Stories. J. Payn. . 
Like Father, Ijlke Son. J.Payn 
A Marine Residence. J. Payn. 
Married Beneath Him. J.Payn. 
Mirk Abbey. By James Payn. 
Not Wooed, but Won. J. Payn. 
Two Hundred Pounds Reward. 

By James Payn. 

Best of Husbands. By J. Payn. 
Walter's Word. By J. Payn. 
Halves. By James Payn. 
Fallen Fortunes. By J. Payn. 
What He Cost Her. J. Payn. 
Less Black than We're Painted. 

By Jambs Payn. 

By Proxy. By James Payn. 
Under One Roof. By J. Payn. 
High Spirits. By Jas. Payn. 
Paul Ferroll. 
The Mystery of Marie Roget. 

By Edgar A Pob. 



CHATTO 6* WIND US, PICCADILLY. 25 



Popular l^oyvL&— -continued. 
fier Mother's Darling. By Mrs. 

J. H. RiDDBLL. 

Gaslight and Daylight By 

Gborgb Augu stus Sala. 
Bound to the WheaL By John 

Saunders. 

Guy Waterman. J. Saunders. 
One Against the World. By 

John Saundbks. 

The Lion In the Path. By John 

smd Kathbrinb Saunders. 

A Matoh in the Dark. By A. 

Skbtchley. 

Tales for the Marines. By 

Walter Thorn bury. 



The Way we Live Now. By 

. Anthony Trollopb. 

The Amerloan Senator. By 

Anthony Trollopb. 
Diamond Out Diamond. By 

T. A. Trollopb. 

A Pleasure Trip In Europe. 

By Mark Twain. 

Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. 
An Idle Ezourslon. M.Twain. 
Sablna. By Lady Wood. 
Castaway. By Edmund Yates. 
Forlorn Hope. Edmund Yates. 
Land at Lasc. Edmund Yates. 



Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, zj. each. 
Jeff Brlggs's Love Story. By Bret Hartb. 
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. 
Mrs. Qalnsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne. 
Kathleen Mavoumeen. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's." 
Lindsay's Luok. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's." 
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By Author of *' That Lass o' Lowrie's." 
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis. 
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham. 

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, zof. 6d, 

Plutarch's Lives of Illastrious Men. 

Translated from the Greek, with Notes, Critical and Historical, and a 
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhornb. New Edi- 
tion, with Medallion Portraits. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustr atio ns, 71. 6d, 

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works. 

V^th Baudelaire's " Essay." 



Crown 8to, cloth extra, 71. 6d. 

Primitive Manners and Customs. 

By Jambs A. Farrer. 

Small 8vo, doth extra, with Illustrations, y, 6d, 

Prince of Argolis, The : 

A Story of the Old Greek Faiiy Time. By J. Motr Smith. With 
130 Illustrations by Ae Author. 

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, yj. 6d, 

Porsnivant of Arms, The ; 

or, Heraldry founded upon Facts. A Popular Guide to the Science of 
Heraldry. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald, With Colooxed 
Frontispiece, Plates, and aoo Illustrations. 



a6 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 

Proctor's (R. A.) Works: 

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the 

Year, Drawings of the Constellations, &c. By Richako A. Proctok. 
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, (a, [In PrefaraUim^ 

Familiar Sclenoe Studies. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 

8vo, cloth extra, 7;. t<L \In the presto 

Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. By Rich. A. Proctor, 

Author of " Other Worlds than Ours," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 

Pleasant Ways in Scienoe. By R. A. Proctor. Cr.Svo^cl. ex. dr. 
Beugh Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on 

Scientific Subjects. By R. A. Proctor. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 6s. 
Our Place among Infinities : A Series of Essays contrasting 

our Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. By 
Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 

The Bzpanse of Heaven : A Series of Eissays on the Wonders 
of the Firmament By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, doth, 6s, 

Wages and Wants of Science Workers. By Richard A. 

Proctor. Crown Svo, zx. 6d, 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, yj. 6d» 

Rabelais' Works. 

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variomm Notes, and 
numerous characteristic Illnstrations by Gustavb Dorb. 

Crown 8vo, doth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully 
executed Chart of the various Spectra, 71. 6d, 

Rambosson's Astronomy. 

By J. Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated 
by C. B. Pitman. Proftisdy Illustrated. 

Second Edition, Revised, Crown Bvo, t.soo pages, half-roxburghe, zar. 6d, 

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions^ Re- 

ferenc es, Plots, and Stories. By the Km. Dr. Brewer. 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, ts, 

Richardson's (Dr.) A Ministry of Health, 

and other Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., ftg 

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by : 

Our Old Country Towns. With over 50 Illustrations. By 

Alfred Rimmer. Square 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, los. 6d. 

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer. 

With ahout 60 Illustrations by the Author. Square 8vo, cloth eilt, los. 6d. 

[In the press. 

About England with Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred 

Rimmer and C. A» Vawdkrhoof, Sq. Bvo, cloth gilt, lor. 6d. [In the^ess» 

Handsomely printed, price 51. 

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; 

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy 
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, A.D. 1066-7. 
Printed on fine plate paper, nearly three feet by two, with the pria- 
dpal Arms emblaxoned in Geld and Coloms. 



CHATTO d* WIND US, PICCADILLY, 87 



Two Vola., large 4to, profusely Illustrated, half-morooco, £a its, 

Bowlandsan, the Caricaturist. 

A Selection from his Works, with Anecdotal Descriptions of his Famoua 
Caricatures, and a Sketch of his Life, Times, and Contemporaries. 
With nearly 400 Illustrations, mostly in Facsimile of the Originals. By 
Joseph Orego, Author ol '* James Gilliay, the Caricaturist ; his Life, 
Works, and Times." 

Crown 8to, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 41. 6d, each. 

" Secret Out" Series, The. 

The PyroteohniBt's Treasury; 

or, Cramlete Art of Making Fire- 
works. By Thomas Kentish. With 
munerous Illustrations. 

The Art of Amtulng : 

A CoUectiim of Graceful Arts, Games, 
Tricks, Pussies, and Charades. By 
FxAMK Bbllbw. 300 Illustrationi. 

Hanky-Fanky : 

Very Easy Tricks, Very Difficult 
Tridcs, White Magic, Sleight of Hand. 
Edited by W.H.Cksubk. sooIilusU. 

The Merry Clrole : 

A Book of New Intellectual Games 
amd Amusements. By Clara Bbllbw. 
Many Illustrations. 



Maglolan's Own Book : 

Performances with Cups and Balbi 
Eggs, Hau. Handkerchiefs, &c. Afl 
from Actual Experience. Edited by 
W. H. Crbmbr. soo Illustrations. 
Maglo No Mystery : 

Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &C., 
with fuUy descriptive Directions ; th« 
Art of Secret writing ; Training of 
Performing Animals, &c. Coloured 
Frontispiece and many Illustrations. 

The Secret Oat : 

One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and 
other Recreations ; with Entertaming 
Experiments in Drawing-room or 
"White Magic." By W. K. Crbmbk. 
300 Engravings. 



Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s, 

Senior's Travel and Trout in the Antipodes. 

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William 
Senior ("Red Spinner"), Author of " Stream and Sea.'* 



•» 



Shakespeare : 

Shakespeare, The First Folio. Mr. William Shakxspbaiub's 

Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies* Published according to the true 
Originall Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Iaggard and £0. Blount» 
1683.— A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile 
by a pliot<M;raphic process — ensurinir m strictest accuracy in every detaiL 
Small 8vo, nau^Roxbivghe, 7«. 6tU 

Shakeepeare, The Lanadowne. Beantifully printed in red 

and black, in small but very dear type. With engraved facsimile oi 
Drobshaut's Portrait. Post 8vo, dotn extra, jx. 6/. 

Shakespeare for Children: Tales firom Shakespeare. By 

Charlss and Mary Lamb. With ntunerous Illustrations, coloured and 
plain, by J. Moyr SMrrH. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, zof . 6d, 

Shakespeare MiialOy The Handbook of. Being an Account of 

3«o Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of 
Shakespeare, the oompositibns ranging from the Elisabecfaaii Age to the 
- PreseatTime. ByALvun 'Rxavm, 4to^ hatf^Roxbaigfan, 7«. . 

Shakespeare, A Study of. By Algernon Charles Swin* 

BURNS, Crown 8vo, clo& extrs, Zst 



28 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 

Crown 8vo, doth extra, gilt, with zo full-page Tinted Illustrations, js, 6d, 

Sheridan's Complete Works, 

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed 
from the Original Editions, his Worics in Prose and Poetry, Transla- 
tions, Speeches, Jolces, Puns, ftc. ; with a Collection of Sheridaniana. 

Crown 8to, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s, 6d, 

Signboards : 

Their History. \^th Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable 
Characters. By Jacob Larwood and John Camden Hottbn. 
With nearly zoo IlJustrations. 

Crovm 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s, 6d, 

Slang Dictionary, The : 

Etymological, Histori«d, and AnecdotaL An Entirely New 
Edition, revised throughout, and considerably Enlarged. 

Exquisitely printed in mimature, cloth extra, gilt edges, aj. 6d, 

Smoker's Text-Book, The. 

By J. Hamer, F.R.S.L.. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 51. 

Spalding's Elizabethan Demonology : 

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and 
the Powers possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B. 

Crown 4to, uniform with " Chaucer for Children," with Coloured 
Illustrations, cloth gilt, 10s, 6d, 

Spenser for Children. 

By M. H. TowRT. Illustrations in Colours by Walter J. Morgan. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 9/. 

Stedman's Victorian Poets: 

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Stedman. 



Post 8vo, doth extra, 5;. 

Stories about Nmnber Nip, 

The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children, by Walter 
Grahame. With Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith. 

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s, 

Stories from the State Papers, 

By Alex. Charles Ewald, Author of " The Life of Prince Charles 
Stuart," &c. [Nearfy ready 

Two Vols., crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 24J. 

Strahan.— Twenty Years of a Publisher's 

Life. By Alexander Strahan. With Portraits and Illustrations. 

[/« tie press 



CHATTO dr* WINDUS^ PICCADILLY. 



29 



Crown 8vo, doth extra, with Illustratioiis, 71. td, 

Strutt's Sports and Pastimes of the People 

of England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May 
Games, Mummeries, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous 
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140 
Illustrations. Edited by William Howe. 

Crown 8vo, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, yj. 6^. 

Suburban Homes (The) of London : 

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society » 
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates, 
and House Accommodation. • 

Crown ttvo, ciocn extra, wicn iiiustrauons, yj. 6^^. 

Swift's Choice Work^, 

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the 
Maps in the Original Edition of "Gulliver's Travels." 

Swinburne's Works : 

The Queen Mother and Rosa- 
mond. Fcap. 8vo, 51. 

Atalanta in Oalydon. 

A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6«. 

Ohastelard. 

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, ^^^ 

Poems and Ballads. 
First Sbribs. Fcap. Svo, 9«. Alto 
in crown Svo, at same price. 

Poems and Ballads. 

Sbcond Sbkibs. Fcap. Svo, 91. Also 
in crown Svo, at same priiM. 

Notes on "Poems and Bal- 
lads.** 8vo, x«. 

William Blake : 

A Critical Essay. With Facslmilo 
Paintings. Demy Svo, z6f. 

Songs before Sunrise. 

Crown Svo, lor. f*d. 



Bothwell ; 
A Tragedy. Crown Svo, X8«. 6d^ 

(George Chapman: 

An Essay. Crown Svo, 71. 

Songs of Two Nations. 

Crown Svo, 6f. 

Essays and Studies. 

Crown Svo, ia«. 

Brechtheos : 

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 6f • 

Note of an Bngllsh Bepublioan 

on tho Muscovite Crusade. Svo, xx. 

A Note on Charlotte Bronte. 

Crown Svo, 6f . 

A Study of Shakespeare. 

Crown Svo, Zs, 

Songs of the Springtides. Cr. 

Svo, 6f . 

Studies in Song. 

Crown Svo, 7^ . 

MR. SWINBURNE'S NEW DRAMA.— Crown Svo, cloth extra, ?s. 
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy, in Five Acts. By Algernon Charles 

Swinburne. [ fn preparation^ 

Demy Svo, cloth extra, iilustrated, 21^. 

Sword^ The Book of the : 

Being a History of the Sword, and its Use, in all. limes and in all 
Countries. By Captain Richard Burton. With numerous Illustra- 

tions. \Tn preparatum, 

~ Medium ttvo, clotn extra, wim iUuscrauons, js, td. 

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours, 

in Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in SeanA 
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illtiatra- 
tions, in Colours, and Life of the Author by J. C. Hotten. 



30 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



Four Vols, small 8vo, cluth boards, 501. 

Taine's History of English Literature. 

Translated by Henry Van Laun. 
*>* Also a Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown 8vo , deth extra, 155. 
Crown 8vo, cloth gUt, profusely IllustratedTdf. 

Tales of Old Thule. 

Collected and Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith. 

One VoL crown 8vo, cloth extra, yj. 6rf. 

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas: 

•• Clancarty," "Jeanne Dare, Twixt Axe and Crown," "The Fool's 

Revenge/' " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion." 
*»* The Playi may also be hail se p aratel y, at U. each. 

Crown Sto, cloth extra, with Coloured Frontispiece and numerous 

Illustrations, ^s. 6d, 

Thackerayana : 

Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by 
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Inddenti 
in his Sdiool-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his every- 
day reading. With Hundreds of Wood Engravings, facsimiled fiom 
Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings. 

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 71. 6d, 

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence. 

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunning* 
HAM, and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel an d Wood. 

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, yj. 6d, 

Thombury's (Walter) Haunted London. 

A New Edition, Edited by Edward Walford, M.A., with numetom 
lUustrations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. " mctoim 

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, yj. 6d» 

Timbs' Clubs and Club Life in London. 

With Anecdotes of its famous Coffee-houses. Hostelries, and Taverns 
By John Tim bs , F.S,A. With nu merous Illustrations. 

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7/. ^, 

Timbs' English Eccentrics and Eccentrici- 
ties: Stories of Wealth and Fashion, Ddusions, Impostures and 
Fanatic Misswns, Strange Sights and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric 
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters, &c.- By Tohn Timimb- 
F.S.A. With nearly 50 Illustrations. ^ ^ ^^ 

Demy Bvo, doth extra. 141. 

Torrens' The Marquess Wellesley, 

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Farming Vol, /. of Pro- 
Consul and Tribune: Wellesley and O'Connbll: Historio 
Portraits. By W. M. Torrens, M.P. in Two VoU. ""^c 



CHATTO ^ WIND US, PICCADILLY. 



31 



Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustiations. 

: the Land and the People. 

By Ernst von Hess£-Wartegg. Many fine illustrations. 
^___ [In thepress ^ ^ 

Crown »vo, ciotn extra, witn Coloured illustrations, js, 6d, 

Tnmer's (J. M. W.) Life and Correspondence: 

Founded upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow- 
Academicians. By Walter Thornburt. A New Edition, con- 
siderably Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimiled 
from Turner's original Drawings. 

l>vo Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Map and Urouod-i'lans, Z4J. 

Walcott's Church Work and Life in English 

Minsters ; and the English Student's Monastioon. By the Re¥. 
Mackenzib E. C. Walcott, B.D. 

Large crown 8vo, ciotn anaque, witti Illustrations, js, td, 

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler; 

or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation : being a Discourse of Rivers, 
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and In- 
structions how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, fay 
Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris 
Nicolas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3J. 6d. per volume. 

Wanderer's Library, The : 



Merrle England in the Olden 
Time. By George Daniel. With 
Illustrations by Robt. Cruikshank. 

The Old Showmen and the Old 

London Fairs. By Thomas Frost. 

The Wilds of London. By 

Jambs Greenwood. 
Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings ; 

Including the Origin of Signs, and 
Reminiscences connected with 
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c. 
By Charles Hindlbv. With Illusts. 

Gircos Life and Girous Celebri- 
ties. By Thomas Frost. 

The Lives of the Conjurers. 
By Thomas Frost. 

The Life and Adventures of a 

Cheap Jack. By One of the Frater- 
nity. Edited by Charles Hindley. 

The Story of the London Parks. 

By Jacob Larwood. With IllMsts. 



Low-Life Deeps. An Account 

of the Stran(;e Fish to be found there. 
By James Greenwood. 

Seven Qenerations of Szeou- 

tioners: Memoirs of the Sanson 
Family (1688 to 1847). Edited by 
Henry Sanson. 

The World Behind the Scenes. 

By Percy Fitzgerald. 

London Characters. By Henry 

Mayhbw. Illustrated. 

The Genial Showman : Life 

and Adventures ' of Artemus Ward. 
By E. P. Hingston. Frontispiece. 

Wanderings in Patagonia ; or» 

Life amons; the Ostrich Hunters. By 
Julivs Bebrbohm. Illustrated. 

Summer Grolsing in the South 

Seas. By Charles Warren Stod- 
dard. Illustrated by Wallis Mac- 
kay. [/« ike press 



The Twenty-second Annual Edition, for x88z, doth» fiiU gilt, 50^* 

Walford's County Families of the United 

Kingdom. Bv.Edward Walford, M. A. Containing Notices of 
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c., of more than za,ooo 
distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, 
the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Ceuntry Ad- 
drease*, Clubs, &c. 



3a BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO ^ WIN BUS. 
Carefully printed cm paper to imitate the Origioai. sa in. by Z4 in., as. 

Warrant to Execute Charles I. 

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine 
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals. 

^^ Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price ai. 

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots. 

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elixabeth, and a 
Facsimile of the Great Seal. 

^^ Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations, 4J. 6</. 

Westropp's Handbook of Pottery and Porce- 
lain : or, History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Hoddes 
M. Wbstropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Maries. 

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2j. 6</. 

What shall my Son be P 

Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their 
Sons. By Francis Davenaxt. MA. 

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, w. 

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and Art Critics. 

By J. A. Macneill Whistler. 

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2j. 6d, 

Williams' A Simple Treatise on Heat 

By W. Mattibu Williams, F.R.A.S., F.C.S. 



A HANDSOME GIFT-BOOK,- Small 8vo, cloth extra, 6j. 

Wooing (The) of the Water- Witch : 

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne. With One Hundred and 
Twenty-five fine Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith. 

Crown 8vo, half-bound, X2j. 6df. 

Words, Facts, and Phrases : 

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-Way Matters. By 
Eliezer Edwards. \In the pres s. 

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s, 6d, 

Wright's Caricature History of the Georges. 

(The House of Hanover.) V^th 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs. 
Broadsides, VTindow Pictures, &c. ^THOMAS Wright, M.A.. F.S.A. 

LAxge post 8vo, doth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js, 6d, 

Wright's History of Caricature and of the 

Grotesque in Art, Literature, Sculpture, and Painting, from the 
Earliest Times to the Present Day. Bjr Thomas Wright, M.A*« 
F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated by F. W. FAIRHOlt, F.S.A. 

1. OGDBN AND CO., PRINTBES, I7«, ST. JOHN STKBET, B.C 



