^t\t\\>; 






Ef^>] 



\-^f^^. 



W8. 



FAMILY EXPENSE BOOK. 

CLOTH, Crown 8vo., 50c- 



A Printed Account Book, with appropriate columns and 
printed headings for keeping a complete record of Family Expenses 
tor each day, week, and month of the year, with an itemized state- 
rnent of expenditures for the year. Also, a servant's account, show- 
ing name, date of engagement, and rate of wages, with dates and 
amounts of cash payments. 

. A glance at the arrangement will readily show its convenience 
and value, and the small labor required to keep a full, accurate 
record of all the family expenses. 



" We can heartily sympathize with those heedless, easy souls who let one 
little expense after another, a dime here and a quarter there, run away with a 
sum of money that, at the end of a year, has left no trace behind, and whose 
amount is amazipg. Good resolutions are in vain against, this loose practice, 
which can only be cured by a systematic noting down of every expense. 
Robert Clarke & Co., of Cincinnati, publish a little book that is so well ar- 
ranged for farrjily accounts that its very appearance will persuade any careless 
soul who examines it to get it and try the experiment, it being in all respects 
the best book of the kind that we have ever seen." — Louisnille Courier- jour- 
nal. ' 



" ' The Family Expense Book' is the title of a unique publication isatied 
by Robert Clarke & Co., Cincinnati, designed for the keeping of accurate 
accounts of the household expenses, so that all persons of ordinary intelli- 
gence may keep such an account of their, outgoings that they may know at 
all times precisely where every cent of their money has gone. No one who 
oversees the purchases of a family should be without one." — Telegraph. 



"Every housekeeper should have one of Clarke's ''^Family Expense 
Books." They are nicely bound and ruled off with appropriate headings for 
keeping accounts of. all expenditures and receipts; also contains blanks for 
keeping accounts with servants. Every well regulated family -should keep a 
book for noting down their expenditures, and the most perfect method we 
have ever seen is taught in the "-Family Expense Book." — Gazette. 

'■Robert Clarke & Co., ever mindful of the needs, of the public, have 
gotten up a neat little work entitled the.' Family Expense Book.' It shows at 
a glance the expenses of the day or month and the grand total of the year. 
Ah examination of the work will satisfy any one of its practical utility and 
great convenience." — Citizen. 

Sent by mail post-paid on receipt of price. 

ROBERT CLARKE & CO. 
Publishers, Booksellers, and Stationers, 

6s WEST FOURTH ST., CINCINNATI. 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924089480259 



ALBEKT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 














From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco. 1912. 





HOUSE-KEEPING 



BLUE GEAS8. 



HOUSEKEEPING IN THE BLUE GRASS. 
A NEW AND PRACTICAL 

COOK BOOK 

CONTAINING 

NEARLY A THOUSAND RECIPES, 

MAmr OF THEM NEW, AND ALL OF THEM TRIED AND KNOWN TO BE 
VALUABLE; SUCH AS HAVE BEEN USED BY THE BEST HOUSE- 
KEEPERS OF KENTUCKY AND OTHER STATES. 

TOGETHER WITH 

MANY MISCELIiAIfEOIJS RECIPES, 

USEFUL IN FAMILIES, ETC. 



EDITED BY 

THE LAMES OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, 

FABIS, EZ. 



irXlW AJII) ESXAnGED EDITIOir. 

CmCINNATI. 

BOBERT CLAEKE & CO. 

1881. 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, ^>J 

THE LADIES OF THE PBESBYTERIAN CHURCH, OF PARIS, KY., 

In the office ot the librarian of Congress, at Washington, 



PREFACE. 



The "^ Blue Grass " region of Kentucky, as is ■well known, is 
considered the garden-spot of the State. It is celebrated for the 
fertility of its soil, the beauty of its pastures, its flocks and 
blooded stock, and last, but not least, for the hospitality of its 
people and their table luxuries. 

It is useless to enlarge upon the last feature, especially to 

those who have attended Bourbon Fairs, and made visits in this 

and the adjoining counties. We only refer to it, by way of 

introducing our book to the appreciation of the public. 

It is said that 

"Who sweeps a room 
With motive pure, 
Makes that and the action fine." 

May not this also be true of a cookery-book; in view, first, 
of its containing recipes of dishes which have often gratified the 
appetites of families and guests of some of the best housekeepers 
in this far-famed region : secondly, and by way of climax, in 
that it was conceived in the earnest desire of the ladies con- 
nected with the "Missionary Society" of the Southern Presby- 
terian Church, Paris, Ky., to do something more in the way of 
benevolence than was found practicable in the use of the needle. 

It was suggested six months ago, after mature consideration of 
ways and means, that we might not only greatly increase our 

V 



VI PEEFACE. 

funds, but also contribute to the convenience and pleasure of 
housekeepers generally, by publishing a good receipt book. 

As soon as it was decided that we should undertake it, each 
set about collecting the best practical recipes for our purpose. 
Very many of the most noted housekeepers in other churches, 
and in different parts of the country, cheerfully contributed to 
our pages ; but, with the utmost diligencCj we were not able to 
complete the work of copying and classifying until the present 
time. 

Many of our recipes are entirely original with our own famed 
cooks; others have been gathered from the most reliable sources; 
not one, so far as we know, has been copied from books. 

All these we carefully copied, and afterward criticised the 
proofs in such a way as to insure accuracy. 

Now that the book goes outj full fledged, to the world, we 
solicit for it a kind reception and fair trial. In its dedication to 
the work of the church of God, we ask His blessing upon it, 
and His acceptance of its proceeds. 

Paeis, Kt., January 1, 1875. 



PREFACE TO THE TENTH EDITION. 

In issuing a new and enlarged edition of " Housekeepino 
IN THE Blur Grass," the ladies (we) extend their thanks to 
the public for the generous reception accorded their work. 
Our success ha« been beyond our expectations. Nine thou- 
sand copies have been sold, and its praises have been sung by 
many of the best housekeepers of the land. 

In sending forth this new edition, we have corrected some 
errors, supplied defects, and added many valuable recipes, 
which will be found at the close of each section and in the 
Miscellaneous department. 

The entire profits of this work have been, and will con- 
tinue to be, devoted to religious charity. 
Paris, Kentucky, May 1, 1879. 



COKTEIBUTOES 

TO 

HOUSE-KEEPING IN THE BLUE GRASS. 



Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Miss 

Mrs. 

Mr. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Miss 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 

Mrs. 



B. T. Allin. 

C. Alexander, Paris. 
E. M. Adair, Paris. 
L. J. Arnold, Paris. 
Nannie Abbott, Paris. 

, L. H. Blanton, Paris. 

Baker Blauton, Farmville, Va. 

. C. S. Brent, Sr., Paris. 

Chambers Brent, Fred'bg, Va. 

J. H. Brent, Paris. 

H. C. Bujlcncr, Bourbon Co. 

W. T. Buckner, Bourbon Co. 

Allen Basliford, Paris. 

James Bisliford , Paris. 

L. D. Barnes, Paris. 

M. Barnes, Hot Springs, Ark. 

Barclay, Scott county. 

Batterton. 

Bullitt, Jefferson county. 

Burnley, Frankfort. 

Battaille, Va. 

S. Brooks, Bourbon Co. 

Jas. Blythe, Madison county. 

Brutus J. Clay, Bourbon Co. 

Sam Clay, Bourbon Co. 

Ezekiel Clay, Bourbon Co. 

C. F. Clay, Bourbon Co. 

Green t^lay, Bourbon Co. 

Frank Clay, Bourbon Co. 

Mary Cunningham, Paris. 

Crawford. 

M. Chapline, Paris. 

Frederick Cabell, Va. 



Mrs. Amanda Clay, Bourbon. 
Mrs. Cooke, Va. 
Miss Jennie Cook, New York. 
Miss Belle Croxton, Paris. 
Miss Mattie Clay, Bourbon. 

Mrs. Geo. "W". Davis, Paris. 

Mrs. Wm. Daviess, Harrodsburg. 

Mrs. C. A. Dougherty, Paris. 

Mrs. Deigman. 

Mrs. Mary Duncan, Paris. 

Mrs. D. M. Dodge, Bourbon. 

Mrs. Dudley. 

Mrs. Garnett Duncan, Louisville. 

Mrs. Edwards. 

Miss Sue Elbert. 

Miss Edmiston, 'Lexington. 

Mrs. W. W. Fisher, Bourbon Co. 

Mrs. Wash Fithian, Paris. 

Mrs. J. C. Ford, Louisville. 

Mrs. Alice Garrett, Lexington, 
Mrs. "W. W. Gill, Paris. 
Mrs. Morris Gass, Bourbon. 
Mrs. David Goodloe, Lexington. 
Miss Lucy Graddy, 'Woodford Co. 
Hon. R. Hawes, Paris. 
Mrs. Col. Hanson, Paris. 
Mrs- J. A. Howcrton, Paris, 
Mrs. J. H. Holt, Bourbon. 
Mrs. Geo. Hibler, Paris. 
Mrs. Hamilton. 
Mrs. Hughes, Philadelphia. 
Mrs. James Hughes, Paris. 



vm 



LIST OF CONTEEBUTOES. 



Mrs. R. H. Hanson, Paris. 

Mrs. Dr. Humphrey, Louisville. 

Mrs. Halliday, Bourbon Co. 

Mrs. V. Higgins, Paris. 

Mrs. A. Hunt. Louisville. 

Mr. C. E. F. Hegman, Gibson House, 

Cincinnati. 
Miss Hawes, Paris. 
Miss Hallecli:, Paris. 
Miss Hanson, TV. City. 
Miss Ella Harrison, Lexington. 
Miss Bettie Holt, Bourbon Co. 
Dr. TV. "W.Hall, N. X. 
Mrs. J. Ingles, Paris. 
Mrs. Lawrence Jones, Lexington. 
Mrs. J. M. .Tone?, Paris. 
Mrs. Justice "Winchester. 
Mrs. L. Jolinson, Paris. 
Miss Jaynes, Paris. 
Mrs. Dr. Kenney, Paris. 
Mrs. Georgia Kellar, Paris. 
Mrs. TV. B. Kinkeatl, Fayette Co. 
Miss Hattie Kenney. 
Mrs. E. Lyie, Danville. 
Miss Daisy Lyle, Bourbon 
Mrs. N. T. Martin, Paris. 
Mrs. Robert Morrow, Paris. 
Mrs. Mollie Mitchell, Lexington. 
Mrs. T. II. Mitchell, Paris. 
Mrs. J. McCarney, Paris. 
Mrs. Myers, Philadelphia. 
Mrs. Frank Massie, Paris. 
Miss Iva McCarney, Paris. 
Miss Ella Mitchell, Paris. 
Miss Belle Mitchell, Paris. 
Mrs. J. Neely, Paris. 
Mrs. Northcutt, Paris. 
Mr. P. Nippert, Paris. 
Mrs. J. Owens, Bourbon Co. 
Mrs. J. B. Payne, Lexington. 
Mrs. TValter Payne, Lexington. 
Mrs. Richard Payne, Lexington. 
Mrs. Dr. Powell. 
Mrs. Peers, Virginia. 
Mrs. Patrick Pope, Louisville. 



Mrs. Anne Ryland, Lexington. 

Mrs. John Ray, Paris. 

Mrs. M. L. Rogers, Bourbon Co. 

Mrs. Russell, Lexington. 

Mrs. If. B. Rion, Jr., Paris. 

Mrs. Johnson Rogers, Bourbon. 

Mrs. Col. Randolph, Virginia. 

Mrs. Rucker, Paris. 

Miss M. Redmon, Paris. 

Rev. Green Clay Smith, Frankfort. 

Col. TV. E. Simms, Paris. 

Mrs. TV. E. Simms, Paris. 

Mrs. M. T. Scott, Lexington 

Mrs. Stone. 

Mrs. R. G. Stoner, Montgomery Co. 

Mrs. L. J. Smedley, Bourbon. 

Mrs. G. Spratt, Louisville. 

Mrs. J. Short, Paris. 

Mrs. Henry Spears, Paris. 

Miss F. Short, Paris. 

Miss Kate Spears, Bourbon. 

Miss R. Keith Spears, Paris. 

Miss Fannie Shropshire, Bour. Co. 

Mrs Ed. Taylor, Paris, 

Mrs. TV. Taylor, Paris. 

Mrs. Mat. Turney, Paris 

Mrs. F. Thomas. 

Mrs. TV. G. Talbott, Paris. 

Mrs. Carrie Preston Thornton, Lex. 

Mrs. Amos Turney, Sr., Bour. Co. 

Mrs. Amos Turney, Jr., Bour. Co. 

Mrs. C. TVithrow, Danville. 

Mrs. B. TVoodford, Paris. 

Mrs. M. TV ebb, Paris. 

Mrs. TVatson, l^rankfort. 

Mrs. E. TT'"ar(ield, Lexington. 

Mrs. B. VVashingto.n, Va. 

Mrs. Perry TVornall, Bourbon. Co. 

Mrs. TVing, Louisville. 

Mrs. Dr. TVilson, Bourbon. 

Mrs. Mary TVhite, Mt. Sterling. ' 

Mrs. Sallie TValker, Richmond, 

Miss Phebe TVood, Maysville. 

Mrs. Dr. Young, Danville. 

Rev. D. P. Young, Nicholasville. 



CONTENTS. ix 



CONTENTS. 



SOUP. 

PAOX. 

Suggestions — Chicken — Vegetable— Pea— Noodles— CI ear Beef— 
Okra — Beef Soup, or Tea — Delicious Soup — Soup — Bouille — 
Gumbo — Pea — Gumbo — Calf's Head — Chicken Gumbo — 
Black Bean Soup 1 — 6 

FISH. 

Baked— Stewed— To Fry Fish— To Boil Salt Cod— To Boil 
Fresh— A Large Fresh- Stuffed and Baked— Cod Fish Balls 
— Stewed Cod— Fish Pie— Sauce for Salad or Fish— Fish 
Sauce 6—8 

OYSTERS. 

Oyster Soup — Dressing for Cove — Fried — Stewed — Scalloped — 
Oyster Fritters — To Stew — A. Fine Oyster Pie — Oyster Sauce 
for Fowls — Oyster Sausages. 9 — H 

MEATS. 

Suggestions — Saddle of Venison — Beef a la Mode — Stuffed Beef- 
steak—Beef Tongue— Corn Beef— To Cook Corn Beef— To 
Cure Beef Ham — Curing Beef — Mutton Chops — To Cook a 
Joint of Mutton — How to Cook Ham — To Boil Ham — Baked 
Ham — Stuffed Ham — Roast Duck — Roast Goose — Roast Tur- 
key — Boiled Turkey — Poultry — Roast Turkey — To Broil 
Ham — Sauce for Grated Ham — Chicken Pie with Rice — 
Chicken Pie — Pot Pie of Beef, Veal, or Chicken — Meat Cakes 
— Stewed Veal or Mutton — Baked Hash — Hashee — Sausage 
Meat — Smoked Sausage — Pickle for Pork — To Glaze a Cold 
Ham — Giblet Pie with Oysters — A Quick Way to Broil Steak 
—Corn Beef— Dutch Pudding— White Pudding 12—21 



CONTENTS. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS. 

Venison Sauce — Drawn Butter — For Cold Meat — Wine Sauce 

for Roast Meat — Onion Sauce for Mutton — Wine Sauce for 

Venison — Horse Radish Sauce — Cucumber or Wine — Onion 

— Mustard — London Club — Sauce Jelly for Fowls or Meat — 

Mint Sauce— White Sauce for Poultry 22—24 

CATSUPS. 

Cabbage — Green Tomato — Ripe Tomato — Cucumber — Goose- 
berry — Chelee Sauce — Delicious Tomato Catsup — How to 
Mix Mustard 25 — 27 

SOUR PICKLES. 

Oil Mangoes — Celery — Walnut — Oil Mangoes — Green Pepper 
Mangoes — Cucumber Pickle — Martinoe — Green Tomato — 
Yellow — Cabbage — Peach Mangoes — Cucumber Pickle — To- 
Bfiato — Frosted Tomato — Mixed — Hidden Salad — Chow Chow 
— Rough and Ready — Composition — How to Color Green — 
India — Spanish — Onion — Mixed — Spice Vinegar — Cucumber 
Mangoes— Green Tomato Pickle 28—38 

SWEET pickles; 

Apple Sweet — Sweet Mango — Sweet Peach — Cantelope — Cu- 
cumber — Cucumber Sweet Pickle — Sweet Pickle — Green To- 
mato Sweet Pickle 39 — 41 

SALADS AND SIDE DISHES. 

Chicken — Dressing for Chicken — Lobster — Salmon — Potato — 
Nice Side Dish — Sandwiches — Stewed Sweet Bread with 
Champignon — Croquettes — Rice Croquettes — Salmon Cro- 
quettes — Oyster Salad — How to Stew Tripe 42 45 

BREAD. 

Waffles made -with Teast — Light Bread — Potato and Hop 
Yeast — Rusk — Yeast — To make Gems — Puffs — Cream Muf- 
fins — Rice MuflSus- Corn-meal Muffins — Yeast Muffins — 
Quick Muffins — Corn Muffins— Buckwheat Cakes— Rice Grid- 
dle Cakes — Cream of Tartar Biscuit — Soda Biscuit — Sour 
Cream Biscuit — Graham Biscuit — Light Rolls — Light Loaf 
Rolls — Potato Yeast — Bread made with Fleischman's Yeast — 
French, Biscuit — Yankee Biscuit — Short Biscuit — Beaten. Bis-. 



CONTENTS. SI 



ouit — Salt-Bising Bread — Mush Batter Cakes — Bice Batter 
Cakes — Bread Crumb Cakes — Corn-meal Batter Cakes — Flan- 
nel Cakes — Light Bolls — Soda Busk — Busk— Potato Bread — 
Bice Corn-meal Bread — Kentucky Corn — Egg Bread — Old 
Fashioned Corn Dodi;ers— Sally Lunn without Teast— Sally 
Lunn — Brown Bread — Brown Gems — Stew Pone 46 — 58 

VEGETABLES. 

Suggestions — Baked Tomatoes — Scalloped Tomatoes — Broiled 
Tomatoes — Fried Tomatoes — To Boil Corn — Fricaseed Corn 
— Corn Pudding — Green Corn Fritters — Corn Pudding — A 
Nice Way to Prepare Bice — Hominy — How to Cook Hominy 

Dressing for SJaw or Lettuce— Slaw — How to Prepare Sweet 

Potatoes— Potatoes for Breakfast — To Boil Potatoes — Potato 
Puffs — Potato Balls — To Cook Parsnips — Macaroni— Cashaw 

Salsify or Oyster Plant — Young Onions— Cymblings — 

Fried Peaches — Fried Egg Plant — Pried Green Tomatoes — 
Fried Cucumbers- Green Corn Pudding— Dressing for Slaw 
—To Boil Green Peas 59—65 

OMELETTES. 

Puff Omelette— To Poach Eggs— Fried Eggs— Scrambled Eggs' 
—To Boil Eggs— Columbus Eggs— Dressed Eggs— Omelette 
—Pickled Eggs— A Made Dish of Eggs 66—68 

CANNED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. 

To Can Green Corn— Green Corn for Winter Use— Tomatoes 
and Okra for Soup— Peaches— Fruit— To Seal Preserves- 
apples— Tomatoes— Peaches and Pears 69—70 

PASTRY. 

Suggestions— Puff Paste— Confectioners' Paste— Common Pie- 
Lard Paste— Suet Paste— Cheeee Cake— Transparent Pud- 
ding—Orange Boley Foley— Cream Pie— Custard Pudding- 
Bourbon Pudding— Kentucky Pudding— Vinegar Pudding- 
Orange Pudding— Lemon Pudding — Lemon Pie— Snow 
Dumplings— Apple Dumplings— Baked Apple Dumplings- 
Apple Custard for Pies-Quince Pudding-Citron Pudding- 
Preserve Pudding— Cherry Pudding— Mince Pies— Mince 
Meat-Sweetmeat Pudding-Marlborough Pudding— Chesa 
Cake — Mince Meat ' ~ 



Xll CONTENTS. 



PUDDINGS. 

Sweet Potato Pudding — Sweet Potato Pie — Irish Potato Pud- 
ding— Ooeoanut — Jelly — Molasses — Molasses Pie — Potato 
Pudding — Jam — Pumpkin — Feather — Ginger — Gingerbread 
— Sago — Tapioca — Sponge Cake Eoll — Dressing for Sponge 
Cake — Lemon Sponge Cake — Orange — Scotch — Tapioca Pud- 
ding without Eggs or Milk — Cottage — Woodford — German 
Puffs — Plain — Cake — Charlotte Busse — Pound Cake — Cake 
— Minute — Sweet Potato — Jelly Bolls — Biscuit — Jam Cake — 
Prune Meringue — Apple Cake Meringue — Apple Meringue 
— Omelette Souffle — Apple Souffle — Apple Cream — Apple 
Dessert — Coddled Apples — Pears in Syrup — iglackherry 
Plummery — Good Friday — Virginia — French — Bread — Very 
Bice — Oxford — Apple Fritters — Delicious Fritters — Cream 
Puffs — Plum — Economical Plum — Baisin — Bice — Plum — 
Cream — The Queen — Thickened Milk — Batter— Sunderland 
— Delmonico 80—94 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

"White— For Plum— Wine— Cold 95 

CAKE. 

Suggestions — White Sponge — Cream — Sponge — Icing — Yellow 
Sponge — Savoy Biscuit — Water Melon — Pound — Queens — 
Delicate — Charlotte Polonaise — While — Ambrosia — Mrs. 
Clay's Premium — Beautiful White — White Cup — A Nice 
Flavoring for— Tip Top— Bich Fruit- Fruit— Two Pound 
Cake by Measure — Cocoanut — Springfield — Economical — Ten 
Minute — Ginger Sponge — Soft Ginger — Extra Ginger — Supe- 
rior Ginger Loaf — Bride's — Corn Starch Bride's — Starch — 
Mountain — Icing for Mountain — White Mountain — Choco- 
late — Chocolate Filling — A Good Cup — Puff or Cup — Small 
Cup — Nut — Almond— Bosette — Orange — Golden — Ginger 
Snaps — Hard Ginger — Scotch — Jumbles— Dough Nuts — Su- 
gar Drop — Cream — Silver — Chocolate — Snow Ball — Portu- 
gal — Coffee — Spiced— Marble — Black and White Marble — 
Nice Tea — Delicate Tea — Black — Superior Black — Chocolate 
or Jelly — Jelly — Biscuit a la Creme — Wine — Cream — Lady 
— Moraines — Mille-ans — Cream (good) — Hill 96—115 



CONTENTS. xiii 



FILLING FOR CAKE. 

A Beautiful Coloring for Cake — Icing made with Gelatine — 
Chocolate Icing — Lemon Jelly — Cream filling — For Jelly 
Cake — Icing between Jelly Cakes — Lemon Butter — Mixture 
for — Custard — Substitute for Jelly — Filling for Cake— Choc- 
olate Paste — Lemon Filling — Chocolate Filling 116 — 118 

CUSTARDS AND JELLIES. 

"Wine Jelly— Boiled Custard— Trifle— Solid Custard— Cold- 
Lemon — Charlotte Kusse — Farina — Without Moulding — Vel- 
vet Cream — Bavarian Cream — Float — Baked Custard — Biba- 
vo — Irish Moss Blanc Mange — Isinglass Blanc Mange — Irtsh 
Cream — Ambrosi^ — Snow Pudding — Rock Cream — Angel's 
Food — Oriole's Nest — Isinglass Cream — Italian Cream — 
Calves' Foot Jelly — Gelatine — Isinglass — Russian — Oranges 
with Transparent — Vienna Cream — Caramel Cream 119 — 126 

ICES. 

Cocoanut Cream — Jerusalem Cream — Ice Cream — Almond 
Cream — Lemon Cream — Chocolate Custard Frozen — Bisque 
Glace — Strawberry Ice Cream — Caramel Cream — Chocolate 
Ice Cream — Frozen Pudding — Ice Pudding — Nesselrode 
Pudding — Toute Fruite — Madeira Wine Sherbet —Roman 
Punch Ice — Champagne Ice — Pine Apple Ice — Lemon Ice — 
Sherbet — Orange Sherbet — Raspberry Ice 127 — 132 

JELLY FOR MEAT. 

Jelly for Meat — White Pippin Apple — Currant — Crab Apple — 
Raspberry — Green Grape — Cranberry 133 — 134 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Cocoanut Drops — White Cream Candy— Chocolate Caramels — 
Cream Candy — Candy— Cocoanut Meringue— Meringues — 
Side Dish ot Oranges— Chocolate Egg Kisses— Mirletons Aux 
Amandes — Frangipane a la Congurs — Tartlettes Marine — 
Meringue Tarts — Meringue Pie — Lemon Meringue Pie — 
White Taffy Candy — Brown Taffy— Almond Candy— Burnt 
Almonds — Egg Kisses 135 — 139 



XIV CONTENTS. 



BEVERAGES. 

Champagne Punch — Whisky Punch — Catawba Punch— Supe- 
rior Catawba Wine — Currant Wine — Blaoliberry Wine — 
Strawberry Wine— Gooseberry Wine — Grape Wine — Easp- 
berry Vinegar — Blackberry Cordial — Strawberry Acid — Egg 
Nog — Porter Soda — Currant Shrub — Cream Nectar — Black- 
berry Vinegar — Beer — To Keep Cider Sweet — Champagne 
Cider — Apple Wine — Brandy Peaches — Currant Wine — Pine 
Apple Syrup — Easpberry Syrup — Orange and Lemon Syrup 
— Essence of Lemon — Tea— Good Tea — Chocolate— Boiled 
Coffee — Good Coffee — Dripped Coffee — Milk Lemonade 140 — 147 

PRESERVES. 

Sweetmeats — To Preserve Peaches — Honey — Strawberry — 
Quince — To Preserve Orange Peel — Peach — To Clarify Sugar 
for Preserving — Peach Marmalade — Tomato — To make Ma^ 
pie Syrup — Wild Crab — Easpberry — Cherry — Plum — Quince 
Green Tomato — Orange 148 — 15J 

FOOD FOR SICK. 

Thickened Milk — Arrowroot with Milk — Corn-meal Gruel — 
Tapioca Jelly — Arrowroot Jelly — Sago — Rice — A- Prepara- 
tion for the Sick — For Infants— Blackberry Jelly — Beef Tea 
—Wine Jelly , 152—144 

REMEDIES. 

A Good Salve — To Cure a Felon— Excellent Bitters — A Cure 
for Eheumatism — Antidote for Poison — For .Flesh Bruises — 
A Very Fine Lip Salve — Poison Oak Cure — Breast Ointment 
— Lemon for Cough — A Fine Eeceipt for a Cough — Sprains 
— Scalds or Burns — Poisonous Vines — Neuralgia^Cold in 
the Head — Ear-Ache — Bruises — Lip Salve — Eye Water — In- 
flamed Eyes — Salve for Burns — Aperient — Dyspepsia — Cold 
Cream 155 — 158 

SOAPS. 

Potash— Soft — Soda Ash — Winter Soap for Chapped Hands... ..159 — 160 



CONTENTS. XV 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Polish for Grates, or to Paint Brick Hearths — Soap — "Wash for 
the Hair — For Cleansing Laces — "Whitewash — Wash for the 
Skin — Packing Butter — Brine for Butter — American Cement 
— i^etting Colors— Bleaching — To Clean Black Silk — To Set 
Color in Calico — Crape Veils — To Clean Carpets — To Glaze 
Shirt Bosoms — Ink Stains — To Keep Eggs — To Kemove 
Stains from Marhle — To Clean Stair Eods — Ink — Preserving 
Butter — To Prevent Calicoes from Fading — Washing Clothes 
— Paint for Pavement — Sealing Wax — To Freshen Grena- 
dine—To Take Marksoff Furniture— Sealing Wax— Mucilage 
— Hair Oil— Matting— Sapolio — To Take out Mildew— A 
Pretty Experiment — Virginia Brunswick Stew 161 — 168 



ADDENDA. 

Chicken Pudding— French Stewed Oysters— Fried Tripe- 
Brown Bread — Corn-meal Muffins — Angel's Food (Cake)— 
Almond Filling for Cake— Hog's Brains— Fried Brains— 
Scrappel— To Devil Turkey— Stewed Sweet Breads— Stewed 
Sweet Breads, with Peas — Fried Sweet Breads, with Peas — 
Croquettes — Dried Beef— Bread Pudding— Neapolitan Cake 
—Orange Pudding — Muncey Pudding— Boiled Pudding — 
Quaking Pudding-Canada Cheese Cake— Metropolitan Ice 
Cream — Frozen Pudding — Pino Apple Ice Cream — Econom- 
ical Lemon Sherbet — Delmonico— Orange Float — Boiled Ic- 
ing—Good Candy— Chocolate Caramels— Salt-Kising Broad 

Oat-meal Mush — Scalloped Turkey— Eusk or Sweet Bread 

Corn Soup— Stewed Chicken, with Oysters — Stewed 

Chicken — Blue Grass Fruit Cake — Macaroons — Kisses — 
Chicken Salad— Valencia or Orange Wine— Ginger Wine... 168..— 180 



SOUP, 



RULES ESSENTIAL IN MAKING GOOD SOUP. 

Beef is the best and most nutritious meat for making soup. 
Chicken can be used in various ways for the same purpose, 
making a delicious and delicate soup. Pieces of cold broiled 
steak, also the bones of cold joints of meat, with a small quan- 
tity of the meat, can be made into soup with the addition of 
vegetables and proper seasoning. Always be careful to scour 
the pot thoroughly, and put the meat in cold water, which should 
heat gradually and simmer four or five hours. It should not be 
allowed to boil more than twenty minutes to cook the vegetables. 
It should be skimmed frequently. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Kice, dumplings, etc., should be added at the last to thicken. 
Vegetables, if used, should be sliced. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

To one full grown fowl, pour on two gallons of cold water, and 
set the pot on the back of the stove, so that it may cook slowly 
for three hours. Skim several times, then place the pot where it 
will boil slowly, and thicken with two table-spoonfuls of flour, 
mixed with a little cold water. One tea cup of rice, one tea cup 
of cream or sweet milk, salt and pepper to the taste ; and just be- 
fore serving throw in a little parsley and thyme. — Mrs. Martin. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Take a good sized piece of beef shank, and crush the bone, so 
as to extract the marrow ; put in a pot with two gallons of cold 



BOOT EECIPES. 



water. Observe the same rules as given above for chicken 
soup, only cook four hours. About two hours before the soup 
is done, put in one quart peeled tomatoes ; one pint okra sliced, 
in another hour; and a half hour before serving, add one 
half pint sliced Irish potatoes, one half pint tender corn. If 
the flavor of onions is liked, they must be sliced and put in one 
hour before the soup is done. Turnips also may be used, but 
should be added as soon as the water becomes hot. This soup 
may be made of cold steak.— Mrs. Martin. 

PEA SOUP. 

Take one half of a fried or broiled chicken, put it in a pot 
with one and one half gallons cold watrt', cook slowly for two and 
one-half hours; skim well. Take one quart of pea hulls, and 
drop in when the water becomes heated ; strain through a 
colander and thicken with two table-spoonfuls of flour, one cup of 
cream or milk, one-half hour before serving. Pepper and salt 
to taste. — Mrs. Martin. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

To one egg, add a little salt and flour, enough to make a stiff 
dough ; roll out in a thin sheet, and dredge with flour, to prevent 
sticking ; then roll as for a dumpling, and shave down in very 
small pieces, just as you would shave cabbage for slaw. — Katy 
Desha. 

CLEAR BEEF SOUP. 

Cut up ia a pot the following ingredients : four pounds of the 
lean of beef, two carrots, a knuckle of veal, a table-spoonful of 
butter, three small strips of pork, orsweet middling, or cold ham; 
two onions ; put the onions in whole and stick six cloves in 
each ; one blade of mace ; pour a tea-cup of water on this and 
let it stew fifteen minutes ; then fill the pot with cold water ; 
let it come to a good boil ; carefully skimming aU of the s<Mm 
from the soup ; it takes three skimmings. After it has been 
well skimmed, set the pot on the back of the stove and let it 



SOXJP RECIPES. 



boil gently six hours. About one half hour before serving, drop 
in a small bunch of parsley ; strain it through a cloth before 
sending to the table. Salt to the taste, and brown with burnt, 
brown sugar. — Mrs. P., Lexington, Ky. 

OKRA SOUP. 

Cut up and skin two chickens, with two onions and three 
strips of sweet middling. Fry this in a skillet; when it is done, 
pour some water on it and rinse all into a pot, filling the pot two 
thirds full of water. Put in one quart of tomatoes and let it 
cook with the soup. In a saucepan cook four pints of okra. 
When the chicken in the soup has boiled long enough to bone, 
pour the soup through the colander, so as to take out all of the 
bones ; and drop in the tomatoes and the pieces of middling. Pull 
the meat or chicken into small pieces, and put back the soup to 
boil, adding the okra. Salt to the taste. — Mn. L. Payne. 

BEEF SOUP OR TEA. 

Take one half pound of lean beef; cut in pieces as large as the 
end of your thumb ; put in cold water, one third of a pint ; let it 
soak over night. Cook the beef in two thirds of a pint of water 
gently for three hours ; pour off the tea ; dry the pieces of beef, 
and pound them in a mortar very fine ; then pour together the 
pounded beef, the soup, and the water in which the meat soaked 
during the night. The water and tea should be mixed while 
the tea is boUing. After the tea has boiled three hours, there 
should be as much water as when you began ; fill up with boil- 
ing water as it boils away. 

DELICIOUS SOUP. 

Have ready one quart of peeled tomatoes ; one half teaspoon- 
ful of soda ; let this stew until the tomatoes are thoroughly 
cooked. Have one half gallon of boiling milk, new and un- 
skimmed ; pour in the tomatoes, stirring well. Let all boil to- 
gether about fifteen minutes ; season with red pepper, salt, and 
one table-spoonful of butter ; just before pouring up, thicken 
with pounded crackers. — Mrs. Alice Garrett. 



BOUP EECIPEB. 



SOUP. 

A little lard and flour sprinkled in the pot ; two carrots, two 
; parsnips, two turnips, half a cabbage, parsley, thyme and onion ; 
then the beef, allspice and cloves pounded. Let the beef stew till 
brown ; then add boiling water, till you make the soup as strong as 
you wish. "When done, strain through a sieve ; the water from 
the Bouill6 is the best for the soup. 

BOUILLE. 

Take the bone from the rump of the beef; put in a pot of 
water; add cabbage, turnips, carrots, parsnips, parsley, and 
spice. Let it simmer six hours ; half an hour before dinner put 
some of the gravy in a stew pan ; thicken with brown flour and 
burnt sugar ; add the vegetables ; send the beef to table with 
the vegetables poured over it. 

GUMBO. 

Fry two chickens ; also, fry one quart of okra ; cut up four 
or five tomatoes, a large onion, and parsley to taste; while 
frying, pour in a pint or more of boiling water ; stew tiU you can 
pick the bones out of the chicken ; add a teacup of cream and 
one of rice boiled soft ; add cayenne and black pepper, salt, and 
butter, to taste. 

PEA SOUP. 

Two pints shelled peas ; half of a chicken ; put on with one and 
a half gallons of water ; some thyme, parsley, salt, and pepper. 
When the peas are done, take them out ; then return them to 
the water in the mashed state ; add quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, rolled in flour ; before sending to table add half a pint of 
cream. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

One chicken, cut up and fried brown ; one pint of lard ; then 
take out, and fry two or three slices of beef in same gravy ; 
five dozen pods of okra sliced and fried brown ; six onions 
chopped and fried ; a large pan of tomatoes chopped up. Put 
these ingredients into three quarts of water ; boil two hours ; 
season with pepper and sauce to taste, and serve hot. 



SOUP EECIPES. 



CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

Put the head into one and a half gallons of water ; let it boil 
till the meat drops from the bones ; take out and chop very 
fine ; take out the brains and mix with them one pint of claret 
or port wine, one tea-spoonful of salt, and one glass of Madeira 
wine ; mix with chopped meat an onion minced fine, handful of 
parsley, one tea-spoonful of cloves, one of allspice, one of black 
pepper, a little sage and thyme, a piece of butter size of an egg, 
with a little flour worked in, and put in the soup. 
CHICKEN GUMBO. 

Fry a chicken a light brown ; have a pot with a gallon of 
water ; add to it a pint of young okra sliced, a quart of ripe 
tomatoes, two or three 'spoonfuls of fried corn, six potatoes 
cut up fine, two onions chopped fine. After the chicken is 
fried, pour hot water on it, and boil until it falls from the 
bones. Pour the boiling liquor into the pot with the vege- 
tables, remove ' the chicken from the bones, chop fine and 
add. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Have a kettlo 
of boiling water to add as it boils down. Thicken as for any 
soup. Just before serving, add a table-spoonful of butter. — 
Mrs. J. B. HoUiday. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Soak a cofi'ee-cup of beans over night, and put on next 
morning with a knuckle of veal. After four hours boiling 
take off liquor and strain it ; pick off a few shreds of veal 
and put in and return to pot. Thicken with brown flour and 
flavor with ground spices, such as allspice, pepper, and cloves. 
Slice a couple of hard-boiled eggs, a couple of slices of lemon, 
and a cup of wine, and put in tureen, then pour in _^soup.— 
Mrs. Sidney Clay. 



FISH EECrPES. 



FISEE. 



BAKED FISH. 

Clean the fish thoroughly, and salt it; when ready to cook, 

wash it nicely ; have ready some light bread crumbs ; season 

highly with pepper, salt, a few celery seed, a very little chopped 

onion, a piece of butter about the size of a walnut ; stufi" your 

fish with this dressing, and place in a baking pan with water 

enough to about cover it ; put in a little pepper and salt, and a 

piece of butter about the size of a large hen egg, rolled in flour. 

Put inside the stove, and when it begins to cook, baste frequently 

till done. Garnish fish with hard-boiled egg, cut in rings. — 

L(nma. 

TO BAKE FISH. 

Rub the fish with salt and pepper, and a very small quantity 
of cayenne pepper, inside and out ; prepare a stuffing of bread 
seasoned with pepper, salt, thyme, or parsley ; sew the fish or tie 
with a string ; put it in a pan, and to a good sized fish allow a 
pint of water ; sprinkle with flour, and add some butter ; baste 
well ; bake slowly one and a half hours. — Katy Desha. 
TO STEW FISH. 

Rub with salt and pepper, and put in a pan ; also, one pint 
of water to a fish weighing five pounds. When about half done, 
season with salt and pepper, half a pound of butter, one teacup 
of flour, parsley, and thyme. This can be stirred into a pint of 
oysters {or, if not convenient, the oysters may be omitted). 
Serve, with the gravy in the dish. Instead of oysters, six hard- 
boiled eggs, sliced, may be used. — Mrs. Martin. 



FISH EECIPES. 



TO FRY FRESH FISH. 

After having the fish nicely cleaned, season with salt and pep- 
per, and roll in flour or corn meal ; drop them in hot lard, and 
fry until brown. 

TO BOIL SALT COD. 

Soak the fish all night; change the water next morning. 
About two hours before dinner, put it on in scalding water ; 
boiling will harden it. Make a sauce of eggs and drawn 
butter. Codfish cakes can be made of cold fish, mashed pota- 
toes and enough flour to make them stick. Make into little 
cakes and fry. 

TO BOIL FRESH FISH. 

Clean well and rub with pepper and salt, and pin it in a 
towel and drop in boiling water ; keep it boiling fast. A large 
fish will take three quarters of an hour, a small one less time. 
When done, put it in a dish and dress with eggs, and drawn 
butter and parsley. Walnut and mushroon catsup are good 
with boiled fish. 

FOR A LARGE FRESH FISH. 

Wash and clean well ; have a kettle of boiling water on the 
stove ; take the fish and tie up in a cloth ; put about one 
table-spoonful of salt in the kettle ; boil six eggs very hard, 
and chop up fine ; about two table-spoonfuls of butter ; one 
tea-spoonful of pepper ; one of salt, and a little mustard ; a 
little milk to make into a gravy. Pour over the fish ; if any fish 
eggs, boU them also. This is a nice fish sauce for any kind of 
fish. 

STUFFED AND BAKED FISH. 

Clean the fish and wipe dry ; rub salt inside, and pepper, 
salt and flour all over the outside ; then take stale bread and 
pound up well ; add one tea-spoonful of pepper and salt ; beat 
one egg, and add a little sage and onion ; stufi" the fish, and 
bake about two hours, and serve with sauce as the above. 



8 nSH EECIPES. 



CODFISH BALLS. 

Take codfish and soak one day and night, then boil it all to 
pieces, and pick into shreds ; pick out all the bones, and let it 
drain. To about one pound of fish, allow one dozen Irish pota- 
toes, boiled and mashed very fine ; season with pepper, salt and 
tea-cupful of sweet milk ; break one egg ; then mix all well to- 
gether, and make into rolls and bake a light brown. 

STEWED CODFISH. 

Soak well ; put about a pint of water in a skillet, and pick 
to pieces about as much fiih as you want for a meal ; break two 
eggs into the skillet ; then season with butter, pepper and salt ; 
make a little thickening of flour and milk ; stew until all is thick 
enough. (A side dish for supper or breakfast.) 

FISH PIE. 

One can of salmon must be picked into small pieces, and put 
aside until the pap is made — thus : put one quart of fresh milk 
to boil ; with a rolling-pin or mortar pulverize about ten cents 
worth of oyster crackers, with which thicken the milk, making 
it about thfe consistency of mush ; when almost cool, stir into 
it a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little suet ; fill your 
baking-dish with alternate layers of this pap and the fish, 
beginning and ending with the pap ; between each layer, grate a 
very little nutmeg ; bake only until warm, for all of it has been 
cooked before. — Mrs. J. C. Ford, LouismUe. 

SAUCE FOR SALAD OR FOR FISH. 

Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs; pulverize them 
well ; add mixed mustard, pepper, salt and three table-spoonfuls 
of salad oil, and three of vinegar ; one table-spoonful of tomato 
catsup. — Miss E. Mitchell. 

FISH SAUCE. 

One half pint of cream and milk mixed ; two eggs well 
beaten ; juice of one half lemon ; salt and pepper. Put on the 
fire and stir constantly, until it thickens. — Mrs. Ed. Tayhr. 



OYSTER EECIPES. 



OYSTHRS. 



OYSTER SOUP. 

To two quarts of new milk, add one pint of hot water ; let 
it come to a boil ; pour in the liquor of one whole can of oys- 
ters ; then add the oysters, and boil two minutes. Have a soup 
tureen ready, with two dozen powdered oyster crackers, a table- 
spoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste ; pour on the soup 
and send to the table. Never allow butter to boil in soup ; 
it curdles. 

DRESSING FOR COVE OYSTERS. 

Put one pint of milk on, and let it come almost to a boil ; then 
beat two eggs, and stir into the milk ; add mustard, salt and 
vinegar to taste. — Mies Kate Spears. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Three quarts of new sweet milk ; one half pint of water, one 
half pound of butter; salt and pepper to taste; pour into this 
the liquor of one can fresh oysters ; let it come to a boil ; then 
add the oysters, and one quarter of a pound of rolled crackers ; 
let all boil a few minutes. — Mrs. T. H. Mitchdl. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

To a can of oysters and liquor, add the can full of water, 
seasoned with red pepper and salt to taste ; cook till nearly 
done. Add yolks of four eggs beaten, mixed in a pint of milk; 
put into the oysters, and stir till it thickens. — Mrs. Buridey, 



10 OYSTEE EECIPES. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Use the largest oysters for frying. Take the oysters from the 
can and wipe them perfectly dry ; break four eggs for a whole 
can ; beat them a little and season very delicately with salt and 
pepper ; dip each oyster into the egg and then into bread crumbs 
grated very fine ; put them on a large board to dry again ; fry 
in boiling lard. — Mrs. P., Lexington, Ky. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Separate the oysters from the liquor. Put the liquor in a 
stew-pan and add one pint water, a wine glass of cream, a lump 
of butter, size of hen egg ; pepper, salt, bread crumbs to taste ; 
let them boil together; then add oysters, and cook till thor- 
oughly heated. — Mn. M. T. Scott. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Separate the oysters from the liquor. One egg, cne gill 

milk, one table-spoonful flour, pepper and salt, beat well together ; 

then put oysters in batter, have ready powdered crackers ; roll 

oysters in the crumbs and fry in hot lard or butter.^— Jfrs. M. 

T. Scott. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Take the oysters from liquor ; place some in a baking dish or 
pan ; grate bread crumbs, seasoned highly with pepper and salt ; a 
few celery seed over them and small bits of butter ; add another 
layer of oysters and the seasoning ; then pour over a glass of 
wine and the oyster liquor, after grating bread over the whole. 
Bake till hot through. — Miss E. Mitchell. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Toast slices of bread and butter well on both sides;' line the 
baking dish with it instead of a crust. Pour the oysters into the 
dish, after seasoning with butter, pepper and salt. Crumb bread 
on top and bake fifteen minutes. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Take two eggs ; bread crumbs and flour, and enough milk to 
make a stiff batter ; season this with pepper and salt. Take 



OTSTEK EECIPES. 11 



equal portions of butter and lard, and put this in the frying pan ; 
drop in a spoonful of batter and one or two oysters ; cook brown 
and turn carefully. This is a nice breakfast dish. 

TO STEW OYSTERS. 

Put the oysters in a stew pan, with a lump of butter ; when 
the oysters come to a boil, put in a thickening of flour and water, 
salt and pepper. Serve in a covered dish. 

A FINE OYSTER PIE, 

Make a rich puff paste ; and, after having greased the baking 
dish, line with the paste. Then season one quart of oysters with 
pepper and salt, one half pound of butter, and half a tea-cup 
of bread crumbs ; put this in with the oysters (without the 
liquor), and cover with paste (in Strips.) This pie will bake 
in one half hour ; if in baking the crust browns too fast, put 
over it paper doubled ; if it looks dry, pour in some of the 
liquor, which must be boiled. Serve immediately, as paste is 
better when just from the oven. 

OYSTER SAUCE FOR FOWLS. 

Plump the oysters for a moment or two over the fire ; take 
them out and stir into the liquor, flour and butter mixed 
together ; salt and pepper to taste. V/hen it has boiled, put in 
the oysters and add a glass of wine. 

OYSTER SAUSAGES. 

Chop a pint of oysters with a quarter of a pound of veal ; 
some bread crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper ; pound thera 
in a mortar; make them into little cakes, dipped into an egg; 
flour and fry them dry. Serve hot.— Miss McCamey. 



12 MEAT EECIPES, 



M3S;A.TS 



MEATS. 

Meat should be kept for a day or two before being cooked, 
iu order to render it more tender. Never parboil meat that is 
to be roasted. This extracts the juices and makes it insipid. 

The fire must be in proportion to the size of the article to be 
Toasted ; an allowance of twenty minutes to each pound, is the 
time usually given. In summer, meat will roast in shorter time 
than in winter. Eoast with a quick fire, and baste frequently. 

Salt meats, large fish, and meat for soup should be put to 
boil in cold water. 

Should poultry or meat not intended for soup be put to 
boil in cold or boiling water ? This is a question on which the 
highest authorities differ. AVe recommend a middle course — 
using hot, but not, boiling water ; boiling water contracts the 
skin so rapidly as to toughen, and prevents impurities from 
escaping ; cover the meat with water and boil gently, one quart 
to a pound. Cover closely and skim frequently ; should the 
water become too much reduced, replenish with boiling water. 

Frozen meat should be immersed in cold water before cook- 
ing, or it will be tough. 

Boiled meat should be served as soon as ready for the table, 
or it will become sodden. 

SADDLE OF VENISON. 

Put the venison on to bake, with the side which is uppermost 
when it comes to the table next to the pan ; then make the 



MEAT EKCIPES. IcJ 



dressing thus : with the fingers crumble a small piece of light 
bread, which season highly with pepper and salt. "When the 
meat is about half done, turn it over, and cut on either side of 
the bone several places, about two and a half inches long, which 
stuff with the dressing just made. Then pour all over the meat 
a half tea-cupful of catsup. Into a half tea-cup of black molasses 
Bt'vc a table-spoonful of whole allspice, and a tea-spoonful of brown 
sugar ; this, too, pour over the meat ; then crumble light bread 
all over the upper surface, keeping the meat well basted all the 
while, and cooking slowly, for it burns readily. Just before 
taking the venison off, put here and there all over it a little 
jelly.— if J8. a S. Brmt. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

Wash and wipe a round of beef ; cut out the bone, and fill 
the place with a rich stuffing, made of bread crumbs, highly 
seasoned with pepper, salt and onions. Have ready one tea- 
spoonful of salt ; also, one of pepper, cloves, mace and nutmeg ; 
make incisions in the beef with a knife, and put in them strips 
of fat pork, rolled in the spices ; sprinkle the remainder of the 
spices over the top of the beef ; and then cover the whole with 
fat pork, to prevent burning. Tie the beef all around with tape, 
and skewer it well, to keep it in place ; place in an oven with 
at least three quarts of water, and let it bake five or six hours, 
(a small piece will require less time.) Baste constantly with 
butter and lard, mixed with a small quantity of flour. When 
nearly done, skim off the fat and thicken the gravy. Season 
■with walnut catsup and wine. — Mn. Brutus J. Clay. 

STUFFED BEEF STEAK. 

Haifa tea-spoonful mace, one tea-spoonful cloves, alittle thyme, 
pepper, and salt, a double handful of bread crumbs ; beat the 
Bteak well ; mix the ingredients and spread them over'the steak, 
keeping out a large spoonful to thicken the gravy; roll the steak, 
and tie at each end and in the center ; put in a stove pan, and 
pour in enough water to prevent its burning ; add a piece of 



14 MEAT EECIPES. 



butter about the size of a small hen egg. Put inside the stove 
and baste frequently while cooking. When done, thicken the 
gravy with the table-spoonful of bread crumbs ; add a taste of 
pepper and salt. — Miss Ella Mitchell. 

BEEF TONGUE. 

Soak in cold water- all night ; then wash, and boil four or five 
hours ; when done, take off the skin and cut in thin slices ; or, 
it can be left whole ; garnish with parsley. — Miss E. MiteJiM. 

CORN BEEF. 

Make brine enough to cover, and strong enough to bear an 
egg ; boil, and skim well ; add a table-spoonful of saltpetre and 
a quart of molasses when you take it oflf the fire ; then stir it 
up well and mix thoroughly. After the brine gets entirely 
cool, put in the beef. — Mrs. Laurence Jones. 

TO COOK CORN BEEF. 

Boil until the bone comes out ; then put fat and lean together 
to suit the taste, and press between two plates or dishes with a 
flat iron. — Mrs. Laurence Jones. 

TO CURE BEEF HAMS. 

Cut hams ofi" at hip joint ; then rub and salt them ; let them 
lie two weeks in moderate weather, three when very cold. 
After remaining in salt a sufiicient time, rub the hams 
well with molasses and saltpetre, mixed as follows : one quart of 
common molasses with two table-spoonfuls of pulverized saltpetre 
— clarified, if to be had. — Mrs. Laurence Jones. 

CURING BEEF. 

Mix two tin cupfuls of salt, and one of brown sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of pulverized saltpetre ; rub the beef well with the mix- 
ture ; let it remain three or four days ; then hang and smoke 
for a week or two. This mixture is for a round of beef cut up 
into six or eight parts. 



MEAT EBCrPES. 15 



TO COOK CORNED BEEF. 

Put on in boiling water, and when done let it remain in the 
game water until cold; this renders it juicy and delightful. — 
Mrs. E. McCamey. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim the chops ; beat them well and chop into mince meat, 
taking care not to separate the meat from the bone ; chop both 
sides ; sprinkle salt and pepper on both sides ; have ready some 
bread crumbs and two eggs well beaten, and dip the chop in 
egg and roll in the crumbs ; have in the frying pan two ounces 
butter ; when it melts put in the chops and fry slowly ; never 
turn them till they look firm ; flavor with onion and parsley, a 
dessert spoonful of flour in an ounce of butter ; brown the flour 
and roll in the butter. — Mrs. M. T. Scott, Lexington. 

TO COOK A JOINT OF MUTTON. 

Put it on in cold water, with one onion, some salt an'l pepper ; 
let it boil two hours, or until tender, but not till it boils to 
pieces; then put it in a large baking pan; stufi" with bread 
crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, chopped onion, spices, herbs, 
and jelly ; moisten crumbs with butter or melted lard ; pour a 
pint, or little more, of water into the pan ; place slices of fat 
bacon on the mutton ; just before dishing up add to the gravy 
one pint wine, one table-spoonful jelly, and a little spice. If the 
gravy is very greasy, skim a good deal ofi" before adding the 
wine. You should put on the mutton about 9 o'clock.— Mrs. 
Stoner. 

HOW TO COOK HAM. 

Take a good sized ham ; put it into lukewarm water covered 
as tightly as possible ; allow no more steam to escape thau pos- 
sible ; a ham weighing sixteen pounds, boil from four to five 
hours ; then let it stand in the water until cold ; if taken from 
the stove at night do not taks it from the kettle until morning. 
The same plan when boiling beef or tongue. 



16 MEAT RECIPES. 



TO BOIL A HAM. 

Fill the pot with water ; put in the ham ; £11 all around with 
nice hay ; add garlic, cloves, mace, allspice, thyme, and pepper ; 
let it boil several hours, until quite done, and then add about a 
quart of cider or wine. — Miss Kate Spears. 

BAKED HAM. 

Wash and clean, then wrap it well in a bundle of oats, and 
boil until done, then take out and skin ; then take two flat 
sticks and lay in the bottom of the stove pan ; lay the ham on 
the sticks, and make a batter of flour and water and spread all 
over the ham. Bake about one and a half or two hours, then 
take the batter off, and dress the ham.— Mrs. Northcutt. 

STUFFED HAM. 

After boiling the ham, skin it; have ready a dressing made 
of corn-meal muffins, hoe-cake, or grated biscuit. Add one 
moderate sized onion, chopped very fine, one or two leaves of 
sage, pepper and sugar to taste, a few celery seed. Make 
incisions aU over the ham with a large knife, and press down 
the dressing. Very fine. — Mrs. M. L. Rogers, 

TO ROAST DUCKS. 

Wash the ducks and rub with salt and pepper; put them in 
the pan and cook three hours ; toast the bread for the filling 
and crush with a rolling pin ; season highly with pepper, salt 
and chopped onion. Some persons like three or four onions 
roasted with the duck and placed on the dish when brought to 
table. Basting is important in roasting meats. — Mrs. Martin. 

TO ROAST GOOSE. 

Prepare as for ducks ; sage, thyme and parsley may be added 
for the stuffing ; it requires but little butter, as geese are gener- 
ally fat. Cook three hours ; pour ofi" nearly all the fat that drips 
from the goose, as it will make the gravy too oily. Hash the 
giblets as for turkey and duck. — Mrs. Martin. 



MEAT EECIPES. 17 



TO ROAST A TURKEY. 

Wash the turkey thoroughly, and rub with a little salt and 
pepper ; hav* ready a filling made of bread toasted until crisp, 
and moistened with water ; season rather highly with pepper, 
butter, and a little salt ; put in a pan with one quart of water ; 
put in the gizzard, etc.; dredge well with flour, and baste fre- 
quently. It requires three hours to cook a large turkey ; a small 
one, one and a half hours. Cut up the giblets- and serve in 
the gravy, which will be sufficiently thickened by the flour with 
which the turkey was dredged. — Mrs. Martin. 

BOILED TURKEY. 

Have the turkey nicely cleaned, and let it lay in salt and 
water a few minutes ; fill with a stuffing of bread, butter, salt, 
pepper and parsley ; tie the legs and wings, and then pin up in 
a towel ; drop a little salt in the water. A large turkey will 
boil in about three or four hours ; it should be kept boiling all 
the time, but not too fast, or it will boil to pieces. Serve with 
drawn batter, with four eggs chopped and some parsley. Oyster 
sauce is good with boiled turkey. — Mrs. Martin. 

POULTRY. 

If you have fowls that you fear will become musty before you 
can cook them, skin an onion and put inside, with a little pepper 
and salt ; also, wash them in soda water before cooking. Some 
persons fill a small muslin bag with charcoal and put it inside 
and hang in a cool place. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Wash the fowl, pepper, salt and flour it ; put in a pan with a 
little water, and bake, basting often ; when nearly done take out 
and fill with a dressing made of bread crumbs, flavored with 
ojsters, onions or sage; or, if preferred, a dressing made of 
batter. Then put the turkey back in the pan with sufficient 
water to make gravy, and brown nicely. — Mrs. E. McCornev. 



18 MEAT EECrPES. 



HOW TO BROIL HAM. 

Slice the meat as thia as you can, then put into a pan of cold 
water, set on the stove and let come to a boil ; then have youl 
griddle hot, and broil your meat.— Jfrs. Barnes, Hot Springs. 

SAUCE FOR GRATED HAM. 

Boil one pint of vinegar, beat the yellows of four eggs, stir 
them in the boiling vinegar ; add mustard to the taste ; when 
cold, mix it into the grated ham. — Mrs. Mollie Mitchell. 

CHICKEN PIE WITH RICE. 

Line a dish with slices of broiled ham; cut up a boiled 
chicken, fill in with gravy or melted butter, then fill the inter- 
stices with boiled rice ; cover the top quite thick with rice • 
bake three quarters of an hour. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up a large chicken, with sufiicient water to make a good 
gravy ; add quarter pound of butter rolled in flour, a little salt, 
pepper, and mace to taste ; make a paste with three quarters 
pound of lard, quarter pound of butter, a little water and a 
pinch of salt ; boil eight eggs hard, stir the yolks in the pie and 
bake. — Mrs. Oarnett JDwican, 

POT PIE OF BEEF, VEAL, OR CHICKEN. 

The best way to make the crust is as follows : Peel, boil and 
mash a dozen potatoes ; add a tea-spoonful of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, heaped ; a half cup of sweet cream or milk ; 
then stiffen with flour till you can roll it; be sure to mash the 
potatoes fine; run them through a sieve after mashing. To 
prepare the meat, first fry half a dozen slices of salt pork, 
cut it up, together with the beef, veal, or chicken, and boil 
iu just water enough to cover them till the meat is nearly done; 
tlien peel one dozen potatoes and slice them thin ; roll the 
crust half an inch thick, and cut into oblong pieces ; put alter- 
nate layers of crust, potatoes and meat ; sprinkle salt and pep- 
per over each layer of meat ; let the crust be at top and bot- 



MEAT BECrPES. 19 



torn ; lastly, pour on the liquor the meat was boiled in, until it 
covers the whole ; let simmer till top crust is baked. If you 
have oecasiou to add more liquor or water, it must be boiling. — 
Miss E. JUitdiell. 

MEAT CAKES. 

If you have any cold meat, game, or poultry (if underdone, 
all the better), mince fine with fat bacon or ham, season with a 
little pepper and salt ; mix well, and fry in cakes. Serve in 
gravy. 

STEWED VEAL OR MUTTON. 

Cut broiled or roasted veal in slices, flour and fry till a light 
brown ; take them out ; put hot water in the butter they were 
fried in ; mix flour and water together, and stir into the gravy ; 
season with pepper, nutmeg, or a little catsup. Put in the meat 
and stew till very hot. — Miss Hawes. 

BAKED HASH. 
Chop the meat very fine, and put in a pan with some water ; 
add salt and pepper, butter and bread crumbs to taste ; 
season with a little chopped onion, parsley, and thyme, all 
minced fine; half a cup of milk or cream, with one egg beaten 
in ; grate some crumbs over the top, and bake till brown. 

HASHEE. 

Take any kind of cold beef or bouill^ ; let one third of it be 
fat ; mix a small portion of chopped ham ; season with chopped 
onions, black pepper, cloves, thyme, or a little sage, according 
to taste ; bind all together with yolk of egg or a little flour •, 
bake a short time, in two oval cakes ; take the gravy that fi-ies 
out and thicken with a little flour; add a little water; season 
with pepper and salt, and pour over the hashed. It may be 
made with cold veal. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

To thirty pounds of meat add eight ounces of fine salt, three 
ounces of pepper, two tea-cupfuls of sage, bne tea-cupful of sum- 
mer savory. This is excellent. — Miss Jaynes. 



20 MEAT EECIPE8. 



SMOKED SAUSAGE. 

Make the sausage by the above recipe, only season more 
highly. Have ready bags made of strong cotton, which will 
hold almost two pounds each. Dip the bags in hot water and 
wring well. Put into them the sausage, stuffing very tightly. 
Close securely, and hang up to smoke several weeks. When 
wanted for the table, boil five hours. By this method sausages 
can be kept for months. -^i/rs. Cook. 

SAUSAGE. 

Seven pounds lean meat, five pounds back-bone fat, seven 
spoonfuls sage, five spoonfuls salt, and three spoonfuls pepper. — 
Mrs. Elisha Warfield, Lexington. 

PICKLE FOR PORK. 

Four gallons of water, one and a half pounds of sugar, six 
pounds of salt, two ounces of saltpetre : boil, and skim ; when 
cold, pour over pork. — Miss Hawes. 

TO GLAZE A COLD HAM. 

After the ham is boiled and cold, cover it with the yolk of a 
well beaten egg ; sprinkle with cracker or stale bread grated ; 
then cover again with sweet cream, and bake until brown. — 
Mrs. Simms. 

GIBLET PIE WITH OYSTERS. 

Take the giblets of two full-grown chickens, or a large tur- 
key ; stew them until nearly done ; then cut up in pieces an 
inch in size; have ready a pan lined with rich paste; into 
which pour the giblets, mixed with a can of oysters ; put in also 
ecough of the oyster liquor to make the pie very juicy ; add 
flour to thicken slightly, with butter, pepper, and salt ; bake 
UQtil the pastry is a light brown. — Mr. M. Chapline. 

A QUICK WAY TO BROIL STEAK. 

Have a nice tender-loin steak ; pound until thin ; put it in a 
dry hot skillet, if you have no broiler ; have ready in a meat 
dish, a heaping table-spoonful of butter, tea-spoonful ot salt, 



MEAT EECrPES. 21 



a good deal of pepper, and a little water. Set this in front of 
tlie stove. As the juice cooks out of the steak, pour it in the dish, 
then turn it and brown on the other side. Saturate the steak 
well with the gravy, and serve very hot. — Miss Florence Short. 
CORN BEEF. 

Euh the beef with a little salt and sugar (and saltpetre if 
you like), mixed ; lay out on planks for two or three days, then 
pack the beef in a tight barrel ; make a brine that will bear up 
an egg ; add six pounds brown sugar, one fourth pound salt- 
petre, and twelve pods red pepper ; boil and skim well ; whea 
cold, cover the beef with the mixture. Put a weight on, to 
keep the beef under ; examine in a day or two, and if the brine 
be found bloody, pour off, boil and skini again ; adding more 
salt and water ; when cold, cover the beef with it again. This 
■will cover a flour barrel of beef. — Rev. Green Clay Smith. 
DUTCH PUDDING. 

Boil the neck of the beef until perfectly tender, and the 
bones come out easily ; take it up, on a tray, and pick it to 
pieces, just as you would souse meat ; skim the grease off the 
liquor, and drain the liquor off; clean the vessel ; return the 
meat and liquor ; when it boils, thicken with sifted meal until 
like mush ; cook till perfectly done ; season with salt, pepper 
and sage ; mould in pans, and slice and fry brown like sausage. 
— Mrs. Blythe, Madison county. 

WHITE PUDDING. 

To one part of beef suet, chopped very fine, add two parts of 
flour ; mix well, and season highly with salt and black pepper. 
This mixture may then either be put in skins or tied in strong 
cloth (enough for a dish in one cloth), allowing room to swell. 
It must then be put in boiling water, and boiled very vigorously 
for some time — perhaps an hour, or until the skins are tender 
when pricked with a fork. This pudding will keep many 
months. For breakfast, cut off what seems to be a sufficient 
portion. If in skins, broil it ; if in a cloth, turn it into a pie- 
pan, and heat it. It is only good when very hot.— Mrs. James 
Withrow, Lemsburg, W. Va. 



22 RECIPES FOE SAUCES. 



SAUC'BS FOR MBATS. 



VEMSON SAUCE. 
One pound of brown sugar, one tumbler or one and one half 
pint of currant jelly, one pint claret wine (or if you prefer, to- 
mato catsup), two table-spoonfuls of ground mace and cinna- 
mon, one pound of butter. Boil all well together. — Mrs. Simms. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Kub two tea-spoonfuls of flour into a quarter of a pound of 
butter, add five tea-spoonfuls of cold water ; set it in boiling 
water till it melts , and when it begins to simmer, it is done. 
Do not set it on the stove, as it fries the butter and spoils it. 
Be careful always to work the flour in the butter so thoroughly 
as not to be lumpy. If the drawn butter is used with fish, add 
eggs — ^hard boiled and chopped very fine. If used with boiled 
fowl, put in oysters while it is simmering, and let them become 
thoroughly heated. — Miss Ella Mitehdl. 

A SAUCE FOR COLD MEATS. 

Beat three eggs, leaving out one of the whites, cut up one 
large wine-glass of acid jelly into the ejigs, mix a table-spoonful 
of flour and mustard with a little vinegar, one table-spoonful 
butter, one half tea-cupful vinegar. Boil the whole mixture, and 
stir all the time until it becomes thick ; after cooling, chop up 
a green cucumber pickle very fine, and mix with it. — Mrs. Simms. 

WINE SAUCE FOR ROAST MEAT. 

One quart of wine, one and a half pints jelly, three quarters 



EECrPES FOR SAUCES. 23 

pound of butter, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, one and a half 
table-spoonfuls of allspice; cook together until it thickens. — 
Mrs. Jones. 

ONION SAUCE FOR MUTTON. 
Boil onions Tvith milk and water, changing water ; afterward 
chop the onions fine ; add pepper and salt ; stew till done. 

WINE SAUCE FOR VENISON. 

Three quarters pound of butter, one and a half pints of jelly, 
three table-spoonfuls brown sugar, one and a half table-spoon- 
fuls of ground allspice, one quart of port wine ; stew till thick. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Four table-spoonfuls of grated horse-radish, one tea-spoonful 
sugar, one of salt, one half of pepper, two of mixed mustard 
and vinegai", three or four table-spoonfuls of cream. When 
served with hot beef, put in a jar, which jar place in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water ; do not allow the mixture to boil, or it 
will curdle. 

CUCUMBER OR WINE SAUCE. 

To one gallon sliced cucumbers, put as much salt as you 
please ; let them stand two or three hours ; press all the watei 
out through a coarse linen cloth. Add two table-spoonfuls whit? 
mustard seed, one of mace, broken up, two of black pepper, 
one pint of Madeira wiue, one and a half tea-cupfuls white 
sugar, four table-spoonfuls of good sweet oil, a table-spoonful 
of Burrows' ground mustard, mixed with the oil and sugar ; 
then the wine stirred in gradually ; put enough cider vinegar to 
cover well. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Peel the onions, and boil until tender ; drain the water well 
from them ; chop and pour on them drawn butter, togethei 
with a little rich milk ; boil all up once. A turnip boiled with 
the onions makes them more mild. 



24 EECIPES FOE SAUCES. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Beat yolks of two eggs, mix in them a glass of acid jelly, 
one tea-spoonful black pepper, one table-spoonful of mixed mus- 
tard, one table-spoonful butter, one tea-cupful of vinegar, 
cook, stirring all the time ; after it becomes cool, add a half tea- 
cupful of catsup. — Mrs, John Ray. 

LONDON CLUB SAUCE. 

One gallon vinegar, one pound black pepper, half poand 
cayenne pepper, half pound mustard, four ounces cloves, four 
ownces salt, six ounces burnt sugar. Put all in a stone jar and 
I^^teep for two weeks. — Miss M. J. Redmon, 

SAUCE JELLY FOR FOWLS OR MEAT. 

Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed to a paste, two table- 
spoonfuls of gravy or butter, one tea-spoonful of jelly, and a 
little vinegar, one tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, one table- 
spoonful of minced pickle. — Mrs. Frank Clay. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Take the leaves from twelve stalks of mint, wash them and 

mince them very small. Mix well in a small tea-cupful of 

vinegar ; same quantity of water, with two table-spoonfuls of 

sugar. Serve in a sauce-boat with roast lamb, either hot or 

cold. 

WHITE SAUCE FOR POULTRY. 

In a cupful of cream mix two table-spoonfuls of flour till 

very smooth ; a little ground maee, nutmeg and salt; add a 

cupful of the water you boiled the fowl in ; put it on the fire, 

stirring all the time till it boils. It should be very thick and 

smooth. Pour over the boiled fowl. 



CATSUP KECIPES. 25 



CikTSTJPS. 



CABBAGE CATSUP. 

Chop four heads of cabbage very fine, and sprinkle ■with salt, 
drain in a bag one night, add half a pound of white mustard 
seed, two table-spoonfuls of made mustard, one table-spoonful of 
cinnamon, one of allspice, one of mace, two of celery seed, 
two of ground pepper, twelve of turmeric, four large onions, 
three pods of green pepper, one dozen small cucumbers, one tea- 
cup brown sugar ; vinegar enough to mix well. 

GREEN TOMATO CATSUP. 

Two gallons of tomatoes, three gills of white mustard seed, 
five tea-spoonfuls of black mustard (ground), two of ground 
pepper, two of ground spice, two of ground cloves, one gill of 
salt, six sliced onions, one pound of brown sugar, one gallon of 
strong cider vinegar; put it all together; mix well and boil till 
a light color; put in turmeric and horse-radish to taste; if con- 
venient, a tin vessel is the best for the purpose. Put in jars 
and tie up while hot ; temper your jars with hot water for fear 
of bursting. — Mrs. F. Thomas. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

To one gallon of strained tomato pulp, put four table-spoonfula 
of salt, four of black pepper, two of allspice, four pods red 
pepper ; boil until quite thick ; vinegar to taste. Put allspice 
iu a muslin bag, or the catsup will be dark. 



26 CATSUP KECIPES. 



RIPE TOMATO CATSUP. 

One half bushel of skinned tomatoes, one quart of cider 
vinegar, one pound of salt, one quarter pound of black pepper, 
one ounce of cayenne, one of cloves, one quarter of a pouud of 
allspice, three boxes of mustard, twenty cloves of garlic, six 
good onions, two pounds of sugar, one handful of peach leaves ; 
boil for three hours, constantly stirring, to prevent burning; when 
cold, strain through a sieve, and bottle for use. It improves 
with age. — Mrs. N. B. Eion. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Putpeeled cucumbers into cold water ; grate them ; season well 
with salt ; tie up in a thin cloth and let them drain all night ; 
mix in the vinegar, white mustard and celery seed, black pepper 
and a little sugar ; pour over the cucumbers ; use all cold. — Mrs. 
Vol. Higijim. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One gallon of tomatoes, one quart of vinegar, six pods of red 
pepper, six table-spoonfuls of black pepper, six of allspice, two 
of cinnamon, four of salt, and one of mustard seed. The spices 
must be ground. Boil slowly four hours. 

GREEN TOMATO CATSUP. 

To one gallon green tomatoes, pulled and cut fine, add one 
quart of finely chopped onions, . one quart good cider vinegar, 
four pods of red pepper, one half tea-cup salt, one tea-cup mixed 
ground spices, one cup of brown sugar ; stew until one half 
remains in the kettle. — Mrs. Kenney. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One peck of tomatoes, one cup of salt, three table-spoonfuls of 
black pepper, two of cloves, two of allspice, one large pod of 
red pepper chopped very fine, four onions chopped, one tea cup 
of brown sugar, twelve cloves and same of garlic. Pour boiling 
water on the tomatoes, to remove the skins ; put them into a 
kettle with one quart of vinegar, and boil two hours ; put 
through a colander, and add two table-spoonsfuls of celery seed ; 
bottle while hot. — Mrs. Jones, 



OATSXJP RECIPES. 27 



GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Ten pounds of fruit just before ripe, five pounds of sugar, one 
quart of vinegar, two table-!?poonfuls each of ground black pep- 
per, allspice, cloves and cinnamon. Boil the fruit in the vinegar 
until reduced to a pulp, then add sugar and spices. — Mrs. 
Thomas. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 
Grate the cucumbers, sprinkle with salt; to every three 
dozen cucumbers grate one half dozen large onions, a little 
horse-radish ; press the cucumbers till all the water is out. Save 
tlie water and measure it ; when dry, use the same quantity of 
good vinegar as there is of water ; add sugar and a little tur- 
meric ; season with black and cayenne pepper, and white mus- 
tard seed ; mix thoroughly, put in bottles and cork them tight. 

CHELEE SAUCE. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, eight onions, six peppers, eignl 
co^e cups of vinegar, eight table-spoonfuls of sugar, eight table- 
spoonfuls of salt, one table-spoonful of cinnamon, one of allspice, 
one of nutmeg, one of cloves. Boil all together well, and seal 
while hot. Superior to tomato catsup. — Mrs. James Shmi. 
DELICIOUS TOMATO CATSUP. 

One-half bushel tomatoes, one pint salt, three table-spoona 
black pepper, two tablespoons allsjjice, six pods red pepper, 
one dozen onions, one quart sugar. Pour boiling water over 
the tomatoes to remove the skins, mash and put to boil, with 
one quart of vinegar. Tie the spices in a bag, and crush 
them. Boil all together until thick. Put through a colau- 
der ; then add two table-spoons of celery seed, and season 
with cayenne pepper to taste. — Mrs. Jos. Wilson. 

HOW TO MIX MUSTARD. 

Three tea-spoons of good mustard, one of salt, one-half of 
pepper^ two table-spoons of brown sugar. Mix with hoi 
vinegar. It is better after the first day. 



28 SOUR PICKLE EECrPES. 



SOUR FICKIjBS. 



OIL MANGOES. 

Quarter of a pound of garlic, one pound scraped horse-rad- 
ish, one pound white mustard seed, one ounce long and two 
ounces round black pepper, two of allspice, two of turmeric, 
one of mace, one of cloves, quarter ounce ginger cut up fine, 
■four ounces olive oil. Scald the mangoes, when stuflfed, in well 
spiced vinegar. — Miss Sawes. 

CELERY PICKLE. 

Cut up six or eight heads of cabbage, six or eight heads of 
celery, put them in a jar ; pour boiling salt and water on them, 
and let them stand two days ; then drain in a colander; put in 
a pan ; take two ounces turmeric, some scraped horse-radish, 
six or eight blades of mace, broken cinnamon, white ginger 
broken, and a half paper of celery seed ; mix all these with the 
cabbage ; put on the fire one quart of vinegar, made very sweet 
with sugar ; a handful of whole black pepper ; let it come to a 
boil, and when cold pour on the pickle ; fill up with cold vin- 
egar. — Miss Clara Hawes. 

WALNUT PICKLE. 

Gather walnuts about the 10th of June, when you can stick 
a pin through them ; lay them in salt water for two weeks ; take 
them out and scrape them, and rub with a coarse towel ; then 
lay them in fresh water for three days, changing the water ■ 
daily; put garlic, allspice, and black pepper into vinegar, and pour 



BOUE PICKLE KECIPES. 29 

it boiling on the walnuts. If they are rather old and hard, scald 
them in an iron pot. Cloves are an improvement. — Mr». Peers, 
Virginia. 

OIL MANGOES. 

Take of ginger (soaked in salt water until soft), of horse-rad- 
ish (soaked half an hour), scraped, of mustard seed, each two 
pounds, one ounce black pepper (not beaten), half an ounce of 
mace, half an ounce cloves, half ounce turmeric, and two table- 
spoonfuls of oil or nice, fresh butter ; beat them all together in a 
mortar. The melons must be in salt three days, then wiped dry, 
and filled with the above ingredients. If any is left, put it into 
the jar with the mangoes. Also, half a pint home-made mus- 
tard, and cover with boiling vinegar. Always use sugar in 
pickle. They will not be fit for use for several weeks ; will keep 
for years. — Mrs. B., Washington, Va. 

GREEN PEPPER MANGO PICKLES. 

Seed and lay them in salt and water ten days ; then soak in 
clear water twenty-four hours ; pack them in a jar and scald 
them with vinegar and water, with a small piece of alum, for 
three successive days ; then make a stuffing of one pound dried 
cabbage, horse-radish, ginger, mustard, half pound each; 
mace, cloves, cinnamon, one ounce each ; sew each pepper, and 
pack in a jar ; boil strong vinegar and pour over them ; cover 
tightly, to keep the steam in. The cabbage must be dried and 
chopped fine, and horse-radish scraped and dried; all ingre- 
dients, except cabbage, to be pounded fine; then mix the whole 
with salad oil or fresh butter. — Mrs. Cooke, Va. 

PEPPER MANGOES. 
Put the peppers in strong brine for two weeks ; then put in 
fresh water until free from salt ; take a piece out and fill with 
grateJ horse-radish, white mustard seed, a little grated onion, 
and a few cloves of garlic, ground cinnamon, mace, black and 
green pepper, to taste. — Mrs. Euoker. 



30 SOnB PICKLE EECIPES. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Make a brine that will bear up an egg ; drop in cucumbers, 
and let stand ten days ; take out of brine and drain. They 
should stand all night in clear water after being taken out of brine. 
After the clear water has drained off, put them in a kettle with 
grape and cabbage leaves and a lump of alum ; cover them with 
vinegar weakened with water, and let them simmer until of a 
pretty green color ; take them out to cool and drain ; and put 
them into a three gallon jar; take one ounce mace, three 
ounces cloves, three ounces cinnamon, quarter pound mustard 
seed, one ounce celery seed, quarter pound whole black pepper, 
quarter pound allspice, two table-spoonfuls ground mustard, 
handful chopped horse-radish, two pepper pods, four onions, 
two ounces race ginger, two pounds sugar ; put spices in one 
quart vinegar ; boil and pour over pickle. — Mrs. Henry Spears. 

MARTINOE PICKLE. 

Gather when young and tender ; wipe, and drop in strong 
brine until you wish to pickle; then soak in clear water twenty- 
four hours; put them in an iron pot and cover with vinegar 
and water (cold) ; let them simmer slowly, until they blacken ; 
do not boil. Put them in a jar (two gallon) ; chop four onions 
fine ; add one pound brown sugar, handful sliced horse-radish, 
handful cloves and allspice, one ounce race ginger, one ounce 
celery seed, two ounces mustard seed ; sprinkle these all in the 
jar ; boil strong vinegar and pour over the pickle ; set a plate 
over the jar, to cover while hot. — Mrs. Cooke, Va. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Take half a bushel green tomatoes (being frosted is no dis- 
advantage) ; wash, and slice them thin, with one dozen onions, 
a few blades of garlic, and half a dozen green pepper pods ; 
sprinkle them in layers with salt, and let them stand all 
night; next morning rinse and drain well; then mix well 
together one ounce pulverized ginger, one ounce allspice, one 
ounce mace, one ounce celery seed, one ounce mised mustard. 



SOUK PICKLE EECIPES. 31 



a half ounce turmeric, and one pound of sugar. Put a layer of 
tomatoes and a layer of spices alternately in a kettle with strong 
vinegar, and boil until tender. — Mrs. Martin. 

YELLOW PICKLE. 

One and one half dozen of cucumbers sliced lengthwise, 
one and one half dozen onions, four heads of cabbage sliced ; put 
in a basket a layer of each, then a layer of salt ; hang up to drip 
twenty-four hours ; ground cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, 
white and black mustard, mace to taste ; turmeric enough to 
color ; two gallons of vinegar, two cups of sugar ; boil sugar and 
vinegar together ; pour over four mornings. — Mrs. Morris Gass. 

CABBAGE PICKLE. 

For a two gallon jar take cabbage enough quartered to fill it, 
then pour on it hot brine ; let the brine remain on them four 
days ; squeeze them out of the brine, and pour weak vinegar 
over them, letting it remain several days ; take strong vinegar 
put into it two ounces of cinnamon bark, essence of cloves to 
suit the taste, two ounces of turmeric; put this over the cabbage 
and tie closely. — Mrs. Patsey Edwards. 

This has taken the premium at the Bourbon Fair several 
times. 

PEACH MANGOES. 

Take large free-stone peaches, sufficiently ripe to allow the 
seed to come out easily ; put them in strong brine for two days. 
Mix to your taste chopped garlic, race ginger, soaked in water 
over night or until soft, and then slice thin, grated and sliced 
horse-radish, white mustard seed and cloves. Take out the seed, 
fill them with this mixture and tie them up. Fill up a jar 
with them, and sprinkle through, as they are put in, some 
cloves, stick cinnamon broken quite fine, and a bag of turmeric ; 
season, enough vinegar to cover the whole, with a little ginger, 
nutmeg and mustard — about one gill of mustard to one quart of 
vinegar. — Mrs. M. T. ScM. 



32 BOTTR PICKLE RECIPES. 



PEACH MANGOES. 

Take large free-stone peaches (almost ripe enough to he 
eaten with cream), put them in brine for two days, wipe them 
dry ; take out the seed and fill the space with scraped horse-radish, 
white and black mustard seed, celery seed, garlic or onions, 
pounded cloves, allspice, nutmeg, powdered ginger, pepper, cin- 
namon and sugar. Cover with cold vinegar, allowing to each 
quart one gill of table mustard, mixed, seasoning the vinegar 
with whole cloves, allspice, ginger, mustard, horse-radish a 
good deal of stick cinnamon and a bag of turmeric. 

Keep the peaches well covered and the jar tied closely. — Mrs. 
P., Lexington. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take eighty-five cucumbers, put in salt water one day and 
night ; one plate horse-radish, two table-spoonfuls whole black 
pepper, two red peppers, two onions, one tea-spoonful mace, same 
of cloves, three table-spoonfuls allspice, four table-spoonfuls mus- 
tard seed, three table-spoonfuls celery seed, one pound sugar, 
two pieces ginger. — Mrs. P., Lexington. 

TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peek green tomatoes sliced, one dozen onions sliced, 
sprinkle with salt, let stand till next day; drain them ; then use 
one and one half ounces black pepper, one ounce whole cloves, 
one ounce yellow mustard seed, one ounce allspice. Put in the 
kettle a layer of spices and one of tomatoes and onions alter- 
nately; cover with vinegar ; wet mustard before putting in (one 
half box mustard). Boil ten or fifteen minutes. 

If pickles become sharp, add sugar. — Mrs. P., Lexington. 

FROSTED TOMATO PICKLE. 

One half bushel of tomatoes frosted slightly ; wash and slice 
them ; eight onions, one half pint of garlic seed, six pods of 
green pepper. Sprinkle with salt and let remain all night ; drain 
in the morning and add two ounces of allspice, two ounces race 
ginger, one ounce mace, one ounce turmeric, two ounces of white 



SOUR PICKLE RECIPES. 33 

mustard ; put the turmeric in a bag, and beat the spices. To 
one half gallon of vinegar add two pounds of brown sugar. Put 
all into a kettle and let boil. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Four large heads of cabbage, one peck green tomatoes, two 
dozen large cucumbers, one dozen onions, one dozen green pep- 
pers ; chop each separately, very fine ; mix all together ; then put 
a layer of the mixture and a sprinkle of salt ; let it set all night; 
in the morning squeeze it perfectly dry ^ith the hands, and 
cover with cold vinegar ; let it set twenty-four hours, and 
squeeze as before ; put it in the jar. Then take fresh vinegar, 
enough to cover it, put in a kettle with two pounds of sugar, 
about one half ounce of cloves, cinnamon, allspice and mace ; 
grind the allspice, tie up in a thin cloth ; let this boil a few min- 
utes, then pour over the pickles. Excellent. — Mrs. W. W. Gill. 

MIXED PICKLE. 

One dozen onions, one dozen green peppers, four dozen cu- 
cumbers, two heads of cabbage. Chop the whole fine and let 
stand one hour ; then put in a bag and hang all night to drain. 
Next morning, cover with cold vinegar and let stand for twenty- 
four hours ; then drain again all night. Then scald enough 
strong cider vinegar, with all kinds of spices tied in a muslin 
bag and sweetened to taste ; pour over the pickle, and put some- 
thing over the jar to keep the steam in. When you drain the 
pickle for the last time, before adding the hot vinegar, put in 
black and white mustard seed, and celery seed also, according to 
your judgment. — Mrs. Blanton. 

CHOW CHOW. 

One large head of cabbage, two dozen cucumbers, one dozen 
green peppers, one gallon green tomatoes, one half dozen 
onions ; chop the onions and pour hot water over them, letting 
them stand ten minutes ; chop the other ingredients fine and 
epriukle saJt over them, adding the onions. Let them stand all 



34 SOTJE PICKLE EECIPES. 

night, and put them to drain two hours ; then pour on weakened 
cold vinegar ; let stand twenty -four hours ; pour off that 
vinegar, and to every gallon of the mixture add one half pound 
sugar ; put good vinegar on ; season with mace and cloves ; 
mustard and turmeric to color ; put the vinegar on the fire ; 
let come to a boil and pour over it. — Mrs. D. M. Dodge. 

CHOW CHOW. 

One half gallon of cucumbers or tomatoes ; sprinkle with salt 
and let stand six hours. Then prepare half a gallon of cabbage 
in the same way ; press the water out ; cut one dozen onions 
fine ; pour boiling water over them and let stand a while ; then 
drain and mix all together ; add half a dozen green peppers cut 
fine, a cup of ground mustard, two cups of white mustard seed, 
three table-spoonfuls turmeric, three of celery seed, one of mace, 
one of red pepper, one of ground cinnamon ; mix all these well 
together ; boil vinegar enough to cover ; put one pound of su- 
gar in the vinegar, or as much as you choose. Pour it boiling 
over the pickle. — Mrs. WomaU, 

ROUGH AND READY PICKLE. 

Slice six dozen cucumbers, half a peck of green tomatoes, 
one dozen bull-nose peppers, and one dozen silver-skin onions; 
salt them separately, and let them stand over night ; next morn- 
ing press them perfectly dry and mix together, having chopped 
the onions and peppers fine. Put half a tea-cup of black pepper, 
half a tea-<5up of allspice, half a pound of white mustard seed, 
one ounce of celery seed, some horse-radish, a few cloves ; cover 
well with vinegar, and let it come to a boil. To every gallon 
of the mixture put half a pound of brown sugar, — Mrs. John B. 
Payne. 

HYDEN SALAD. 

One gallon cabbage, one gallon green tomatoes, one pint green 
peppers, taking out the seeds carefully, one quart onions (all 
chopped fine). Sprinkle salt over the tomatoes, and let stand 
awhile ; then strain the juice off and throw it away. Add to 



BODE PICKLE EEdPES. 35 



the cabbage, etc., five table-spoonfuls of mixed mustard, two of 
ginger, one of cinnamon, one of cloves, one of mace (all pow- 
dered fine), three ounces of turmeric, one ounce of celery seed, 
three pounds of sugar ; mix all well together ; cover with good 
vinegar and boil slowly till done. A tea-cupful of salad oil added 
is a great improvement. — Miss C. Hawes. 

COMPOSITION PICKLE, 

Three dozen cucumbers, peeled and sliced, three dozen onions, 
eight heads of early cabbage, which must be boiled in weak Bait 
water until tender ; then put out in the sun to dry a little. 
Put all these ingredients in a basket with a towel in the bottom, 
a layer of the ingredients and a layer of salt alternately ; hang up 
to drip twenty-four hours. Take two gallons of cider vinegar 
and six pints brown sugar, with cinnamon, cloves, ginger, white 
and black mustard seed, to suit taste ; boil two or three morn- 
ings, and pour over pickle (after having previously cleared them 
of all the salt and water). Tie up closely. — Mrs. Kenney. 

HOW TO COLOR PICKLE GREEN. 

Never use a copper kettle, as it is poisonous. Boil together 
one gallon of water and two pounds common salt ; pour the hot 
solution over cucumbers, and allow it to remain three hours ; 
then pour off and cover with good vinegar, scalding hot ; let 
this stand three days ; then pour oflT and scald in fresh vine- 
gar. — Miss Ellen Mitdiell. 

INDIA PICKLE. 

One peek of cucumbers, one gallon onions, one quart green 
peppers, one pound brown sugar, one box ground mustard,, 
one ounce of olive oil, two ounces of celery seed, two or three 
grated nutmegs, one ounce each of race ginger, mace and tur- 
meric, some black and white mustard seed, garlic, and horse- 
radish to the taste. All (except the seasoning) to be soaked in 
salt water twenty-four hours, then drained ; add the spices, etc, 
and pour over strong cider vinegar .-^Jfrs. Jim Bashford. 



S6 SOUE PICKLE RECIPES. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

Slice very thin one gallon green tomatoes ; let them remain in 
brine one night. Prepare a mixture of white mustard seed, one 
pint grated horse radish, one third pint green peppers, one third 
pint, chopped onion, one table-spoonful ground black pepper, two 
table-spoonfuls cloves, two of mace; put in the jar a layer of this 
mixture, then a layer of tomatoes, and so on until it is filled. 
Pour on sufficient cider vinegar to cover the whole. To one 
quart of vinegar add three quarters of a pint of sugar ; boil to- 
gether, and pour over the pickle. This quantity will fill a two 
gallon jar. — Mrs. Mary Wdih. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

To every gallon of green tomatoes sliced, add one and one half 
cupfuls of salt, four larf^e onions, and a small quantity of green 
pqjper ; let it drip all night ; add white mustard, spice, cloves, 
two and a half cups of sugar, and enough vinegar to cover ; 
let it boil fifteen minutes ; put in a jar and add vinegar suffi- 
cient to cover. — Mrs. Morris Gass. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

One peck of cucumbers sliced, about an inch thick, two dozen 
onions sliced, two dozen pods of green peppers ; sprinkle with 
salt and let stand twenty-four hours, then put all in a bag and 
drain all night. Prepare vinegar by adding to one gallon pure 
cider vinegar, one ounce turmeric, two ounces white ginger, 
two boxes ground mustard, one ounce horse-radish, two ounces 
celery seed, four table-spoonfuls of salad oil and one and one- 
half pounds of brown sugar. — Miss Nannie Abbott. 

ONION PICKLE. 

Take two gallons of small white onions, one pint of salt ; pour 
on boiling water and let it stand twenty-four hours. Then boil 
slowly in sweet milk and water, until coddled ; soak a day 
or two in weak vinegar. Then scald good cider vinegar with 
all kinds of spices (except allspice, as it will make onions dai-k) 
and pour over. — Mrs. Blanion. 



SOUR PICKLE RECIPES. 37 

PICKLE ONIONS. 

Peel and boil in sweet milk and water ten minutes ; drain off 
the milit and water, and pour scalding spiced vinegar on them 
immediately ; tie up. — Mrs. George Davis. 

MIXED PICKLE. 

Two gallons chopped cabbage and green tomatoes, one pint of 
chopped onions, five table-spoonfuls of ground mustard, three 
gills of white mustard seed, two table- spoonfuls of ground pepper, 
two table -spoonfuls allspice, two tea-spoonfuls of ground cloves, 
one pound brown sugar, one table-spoonful celery seed, two table- 
spoonfuls of turmeric, three quarts of the best cider vinegar. Put 
aU in a kettle and boil well. — Mrs. Davis. 

SPICED VINEGAR. 

Two and one half gallons of apple vinegar, two and one half 
pounds of brown sugar, one pound of white mustard seed, one 
box of Kentucky mustard, one half pound of pepper, two ounces 
of cloves, two ounces of celery seed, two ounces of allspice, two 
nutmegs. Boil all together ; then add one pound of scraped 
horse-radish, one half dozen sliced lemons, two dozen sliced 
onions, sprinkle with salt, and let drain one day ; keep the 
pickles in vinegar two weeks, then drain one day. Boil vine- 
gar and spices all together, and pour over pickle. — Mrs. 
Charlton Alexander. 

CUCUMBER MANGOES. 
Take two dozen large cucumbers ; cut a block an inch square 
out of the side of each cucumber ; scrape out the seeds and 
all the pulp, if possible, with thumb and finger ; lay them in 
weak salt and water for five hours. Make a dressing of two 
large heads of cabbage, chopped fine, and four green peppers, 
also chopped fine, two ounces celery seed, two ounces white 
mustard seed, one ounce ground black pepper, one ounce salt, 
and one tea-cupful of sugar. In stufiing the cucumbers, squeeze 
the water from dressing. Put two onion sets and two small 
beans into each cucumber. Put back the block and tie with 



38 SOUE PICKLE EECIPES. 

a strip of cotton a half inch wide. Put a layer of vine leaves, 
a layer of cucumbers, and a tea-spoonful of powdered alum 
alternately into a kettle, until it is full. Cover with vine- 
gar and scald three quarters of an hour. Then lift them out of 
this vinegar into jars, adding whole spices to the taste. 

Take a gallon of fresh vinegar and one pound and a half of 
brown sugar ; boil for fifteen minutes and pour over the 
pickles. If not suiBcient to cover, pour in a little cold vine- 
gar, — J&s. A. Turney, Jr. 

DELICIOUS CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take cucumber pickles that have already been made, slice 
them, some lengthwise, some crosswise, also slice some onions 
rather thick. Lay the onions in salt water. In a kettle put 
one quart best cider-vinegar, made quite sweet with brown 
sugar, and colored strongly with turmeric. Season highly 
with cinnamon, cloves, allspice, mace, white and black mus- 
tard seed, celery seed, and curry powder, and let all boil well. 
Then put in cucumbers and onions. Boil until the picklea 
are a rich citron color ; let them c ol and tie or seal in jars. — 
Mrs. John A. Manly. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck tomatoes, one-half peck of onions, a handful of 
green peppers, one ounce cinnamon, one ounce ground mus- 
tard, one ounce mustard seed, one-half ounce cloves, one nut- 
meg, one table-spoonful of turmeric, one tea-spoonful i)lack 
pepper, one pound sugar, one gallon vinegar. 



SWEET PICKLE EECIPES. 39 



S^CFBBJT PlCKt.BS. 



I 



APPLE SWEET PICKLE. 

Take five pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, one and one 
half ounces of stick cinnamon, one and one half ounces of cloves, 
one ounce of white mustard ; boil all together. Pare and quar- 
ter eight pounds of apples; put. in boiling water; let boil till 
tender. Then pour the boiling vinegar and spices over the ap- 
ples, — Mn. Amanda Clay. 

SWEET MANGO PICKLE, 

Let the mangoes remain in salt and water one week. Place 
grape leaves in the bottom of the kettle, and put in the man- 
goes with leaves between each layer. Take equal parts of vine- 
gar and water, with a tea-spoonful of alum, and let the mangoes 
ecald, but not boil, until green; then throw in cold water and let 
them stay till cold. Take two pounds of sugar, half gallon of 
vinegar, one half gallon of water, and scald them for three 
days, first peeling and extracting the seed ; do not peel cucum- 
bers. 

The Stuffing for Mangoes. — Scald one pint of white mustard 
riecd, one half ounce of mace, one half ounce of cinnamon, one 
dozen cloves (the spices must be ground) ;^^ one half tea-spoonful 
anise seed, one ounce celery seed, two cloves of garlic, one pint 
of cabbage, chopped fine. 

Vinegar for Mangoes. — Three pounds of sugar, one gallon good 
vinegar ; let it come nearly to a boil, and pour it on the mangoes 



40 SWEET PICKIE RECIPES. 

after they are stuffed, neatly tied up and packed in a jar. Put 
a plate in the jar to keep the mangoes under the vinegar.— 
Mrs. D. Goodloe, Lexington, Ky. 

SWEET PICKLE. 

Put the fruit in a stone jar, set it in a boiler of cold water, 
let it boil until the juice is well extracted, remove the fruit, 
put the juice in a kettle with one half pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit, and skim well ; drop in the fruit, again skim well ; 
let it boil up, then remove. For three mornings boil the juice 
and pour over the fruit ; the last morning add a pint of vinegar 
for each quart of juice, some pounded ginger, grated horse- 
radish in muslin bags, cloves and allspice to taste. After it is 
done put in bits of broken race ginger. 

' SWEET PICKLE. 

You can use cherries, damsons, peaches, or any other kind 
of fruit. Take off the stems and to seven pounds fruit, use 
three pounds sugar, one quart cider vinegar, one ounce of cin- 
namon, one half ounce of cloves. For two mornings vinegar 
and spices must be boiled and poured over the fruit ; the third 
morning put all in the kettle and simmer a few minutes. Tie 
tightly and keep in a.dark closet. — Mrs. Henry Buckner. 

PEACH SWEET PICKLE. » 

Seven pounds of fruit, on or off the seed, add three pounds of 
sugar, one quart of vinegar, one half ounce of cloves, one half 
ounce of cinnamon boiled in the vinegar ; pour this over the 
fruit two mornings, and the third cook the fruit. Any other 
fruit may be pickled in the same manner. — Mrs. E. MeCarmy. 

SWEET CANTELOPE PICKLE. 

Take seven pounds of melons when they are nearly ripe 
enough to eat, but not yellow ; lay them in weak brine all night ; 
then take a lump of alum the size of a hickory nut and drop in 
the water, in which boil the fruit half an hour. Add to the 
fruit three pounds of sugar, two ounces of cinnamon, one ouuce 



SWEET PICKLE EECIPES. 41 

of mace, and one and a half ounces cloves. Boil the vinegar, 
sugar, and spice, and pour boiling hot over the fruit. If you 
want the pickle to keep well, put the whole on the fire and scald 
twenty minutes ; it is then fit for the table. — Mrs. H. Spears. 

CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLE. 

Slice the cucumbers about one inch thick, and boil for one 
honr in weak alum water ; take out and lay in cold water ; let 
remain till perfectly cold ; then boil again in fresh alum water 
half an hour ; drain the fruit well ; make a syrup of one pound 
of sugar to each pound of fruit ; to four pounds of fruit one 
pound of cider vinegar ; boil the syrup ; then put in the fruit 
and boil it till transparent. Add mace, and if the syrup is not 
thick enough continue to boil after the fruit is removed. Whea 
cold, sprinkle in some white mustard seed. — Misa A. 
SWEET PICKLE. 

The rind of either cantaloupe or watermelon (last pre- 
ferred). Shape as you like. Soak all night in salt water, 
then in fresh water until free from salt. Boil half an hour 
in weak alum water, then in clear water until tender. Add 
now a pound of white sugar to every pound of fruit, with 
water enough to cover fruit. Flavor with raw sliced ginger, 
mace, and white mustard seed. Cook until transparent. If 
syrup gets low, add hot water. Cinnamon can be also used 
in seasoning. — Mrs. J. S. Brent. 

GREEN TOMATO SWEET PICKLE. 

Gather the tomatoes when fully grown, just before ripen- 
ing. Slice off the top and bottom, take out the seeds and let 
them remain in salt and water two weeks. Then souk in 
fresh wiiter to take out the salt; boil in alum water until 
tender, but not broken. To one pound tomatoes, one pint of 
good vinegar, half pound sugar, white ginger, cloves, stick 
cinnamon, and mace. Boil together, and pour over tomatoes 
three times. — Mrs. Stuart Robinson, Louisville. 



42 SALAD RECIPES. 



SA'L.AO AHO SXOB OISEtBS. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

For a turkey, or three chickens, use yelks of twelve eggs, 
fifteen table-spoonfuls of purest olive oil, sixteen table spoon- 
fuls of pure vinegar. After stirring all well together, add 
three table-spoonfuls of mixed mustard, salt and cayenne pep- 
per to the taste ; cook this and make a rich custard. "When 
cold, pour it on the meat and celery (cut any size you please). 
Mix it all through. — Mrs. J. P., Lexington, Ky. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Nine eggs, one tea-cupful of vinegar (strong), one half pound 
of butter, or tea-cupful of olive oil, four table-spoonfuls of mixed 
mustard, two table-spoonfuls sugar, one tea-spoonful black pep- 
per. Beat the eggs until smooth, and add the other ingredients. 
Place in a kettle over the fire, and stir all the time, and cook 
until it becomes almost a mush. When cold, add one half tea- 
cupful of strong vinegar. Chop the chicken and celery any 
size you may wish, and sprinkle with salt to the taste. Pour the 
dressing on and mix well just before serving ; reserving some of 
the dressing to pour over the top. This dressing will be 
Bufllcient for a medium turkey, or three chickens. — Mrs. Martin. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two large cold fowls, either boiled or roasted, yelks of nine 
hard boiled eggs, half a pint sweet oil, half a pint vinegar, a gill 
of mixed mustard, a small tea-spoonful cayenne pepper, same of 



SALAD RECIPES. 43 



salt, two large heads of celery. The dressing must be mixed 
very smooth ; the longer it is stirred the better. Pour over the 
chopped fowls and celery a few minutes before it is eaten. 

DRESSING FOR CHICKEN SALAD. 

Yelks of four eggs beaten, one tea-spoonful sugar, salt-spoonful 
of cayenne pepper, two tea-spoonfuls made mustard, six table- 
spoonfuls salad oil, five of celery vinegar ; stir all well, and put 
in the saucepan ; boil three minutes, stirring all the time. 
When cold, pour over chicken salad. — Mrs. Jones. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

One can of lobsters, chopped, same quantity of celery ; mix 
mustard, butter, and cayenne pepper to taste, adding yelks of 
three eggs. — Mrs. Taylor. 

SALMON SALAD. 
Pick the salmon in small pieces ; six eggs, three fourths of a 
pound of nice sweet butter, mustard, vinegar, salt, and cayenne 
pepper. — Miss Kate Spears. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil and mash the potatoes fine, season highly with butter, 
pepper, salt, a little sweet cream, and then have ready about 
three hard boiled eggs to one quart of the mashed potato ; take 
off the whites and chop fiue ; mash the yellows and mix them 
according to your taste with some made mustard, a little sugar, 
pepper, salt, and just enough vinegar to moisten the preparation ; 
mix well these ingredients. Put a layer of the mashed potatoes 
in a flat pan, and with a spoon put the salad dressing in spots 
over the potatoes ; another layer of potatoes, then the salad, and 
so on, putting potatoes on top. Smooth over nicely, and set in 
the stove to brown. A nice dish. — Mrs. Kenney. 
NICE SIDE DISH. 

Hard boiled eggs cut in half, oblong, yelks taken out and 
mixed with fine bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and butter ; then 
put back in the whites ; set in the oven till the yelks brown ; 
the whites must not brown. 



44 SALAD KECIPES. 



SANDWICHES. 

Chop old ham very fine ; grate it, which will be still better; 
beat an egg thoroughly ; mix with some ground mustard ; let 
half a pint of vinegar come to a boil, stir in the egg and mus- 
tard and mix with the ham. After buttering thin slices oi 
bread, spread on this the prepared mixture. — Mrs. M. T. Scott, 

STEWED SWEET-BREAD WITH CHAMPIGNON. 

Parboil one set of sweet-bread ; take all the skin and fat from 
them, and cut them up in a small saucepan, with a can of 
champignon, also cut up, and the liquor ; put in a quarter of a 
pound of butter, and very little cayenne pepper. Let the cham- 
pignon cook one half hour before adding the sweet -bread ; just 
before taking them oif, add one half tea-cupful of madeira or 
sherry ; thicken with a little flour, and brown with burnt brown 
sugar. — Mrs. J. 1\, Lexington, Ky. 

CROQUETTES. 

One pound of cold turkey or chicken, one half pound of 
bread, three tea-spoonfuls of parsley, one half pound of butter, 
one tea-spoonful of onion, four eggs. Chop the meat very fine, 
also the herbs, and mix well together ; salt, pepper and pow- 
dered mace to taste. Cayenne pepper is preferable to the black ; 
season very delicately with mace ; grate one nutmeg and then 
break two raw eggs. Make a soft panada of the bread , butter and 
a little water ; when cold, mix with the meat and break in two 
more raw eggs, and then add three table-spoonfuls of sweet 
cream ; mix this thoroughly ; roll into any shape you please, dip 
them in raw egg, then in grated bread crumbs and fry in boil- 
ing lard. — Mrs, J. P., Lexington, Ky. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Boil one half pound rice till it is soft and dry. Then mix 
two table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, one small tea-spoonful mace, 
sufiicient fresh butter to moisten it. Mince very fine six ta^ 
ble-spoonfuls of the white meat of chicken or turkey, the soft 



SALAD EECrPES. 45 



parts of six large oysters, a few sprigs of parsley, a grated nut- 
meg, and the yellow rind of oue lemon. Mix whole well, moist- 
ening with cream. Take a portion of the prepared rice, about 
the size of an egg, flatten it and put in the center a dessert-spoon- 
ful of mixture; close the rice round it. Then form in the shape 
of an egg, brush over with some beaten yellow of an egg, and 
roll in pounded crackers. Have ready one pound of boiling 
lard, into which are thrown two croquettes at a time ; let them 
get brown, and take out with perforated skimmer. Serve hot. — 
Mrs. W. Jones. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One can of salmon, same quantity of hot mashed potatoes, 
yelks of two eggs beaten, pulverized crackers. Mix salmon 
and potatoes ; form into pear shape ; dip them first into the 
egg, and then cover with crumbs. Drop them into boiling 
lard, and fry until brown. — Mrs. Stoddard Johnston, Frank- 
fort, Ky, 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Four eggs, one-half tea-cup rich cream, heaping table- 
spoon of butter, one tea-cup vinegar, toa-epoon of mixed mus- 
tard, cayenne pepper, salt and sugar to taste. Beat. the eggs 
well ; mix the other ingredients with them ; put into a pan, 
which should be set in another vessel of hot water, and boil 
until thick. Add a table-spoon of celery seed, and a handful 
of powdered crackers. Chop one can of cove oysters fine, 
pour over the dressing, and mix well. — Mrs. Messick. 

HOW TO STEW TRIPE. 

First clean well and soak in salt water several days. Then 
boil till perfectly done, and keep in a cool place. Cut into 
small strips, flour ihem, and to a stew-panful put a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Stir till thoroughly heated, then 
pour in a half pint of rich cream. Stir until thickened., 
Serve hoi.— Mrs. T. R. Mitchell. 



46 BEEAD EECrPES. 



]o XV jB Jx. X_7» 



WAFFLES. 

One pint of sour milk, one tea-spoonful of soda ; beat the 
■whites of five eggs and the yelks of two, one large spoonful of 
butter, one table-spoonful of salt, one pint sweet cream mixed 
with the yelks. Put the soda in the buttermilk and pour on the 
yelks ; after which add enough flour to make a light batter ; 
and lastly, beat in whites of the eggs. — Mrs. Edward Taylor. 

WAFFLES. 

One quart of flour, three eggs beaten separately, a piece of 
lard size of a hen's egg, half a tea-spoonful of soda, a little salt ; 
mix with sour cream. — Mrs. Henry Buekner. 

WAFFLES. 

Three pints flour, three eggs, well beaten (separately), salt to 
the taste, one table-spoonful of lard, two tea-spoonfuls cream of 
tartar, one tea-spoonful of soda ; mix up with sweet milk, oi 
leave oiF the cream of tartar and use buttermilk and soda. — Miss 
Maitie Clay. 

WAFFLES MADE WITH YEAST. 

One quart of flour, one quart sweet milk, with one table- 
spoimful of butter melted in it and mixed with the flour grad. 
ually, so as to be free from lumps, one tea-spoonful salt, three 
table-spoonfuls yeast. When well risen, add two well beaten 
eggs. — Miss E. Mitohell. 



BREAD KECIPES. 47 



LIGHT BREAD. 

Take one quart of flour, four table-spoonfuls of yeast, one 
table-spoonful of granulated sugar, one dessertspoonful of lard, 
and a little salt. In summer make up with cold water, and in 
winter with warm. Make into a batch and work well, at least 
fifteen minutes, and if it becomes light before the time for put- 
ting it to rise, work it over just a little without taking it from 
the bucket, or without adding flour. About an hour before 
baking, turn it out and make it into rolls as quickly as possible, 
adding just as little flour as you can get along with, to prevent 
it from adhering to the hands. Do not work it. In summer, 
make it up at 11 o'clock, and in winter about 9. It will be 
ready for tea. — Mrs. Martin. 

INDIAN BREAD. 
Beat two eggs, very light; mix alternately with them one 
pint sour milk, or buttermilk, and one pint of fine Indian meal, 
one tea- spoonful of soda, dissolved in a little sour milk; melt 
one table-spoonful of butter, and add to the mixture. Beat 
well ; and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. Lockett, Farmville, Va. 

POTATO AND HOP YEAST. 

Six good-sized potatoes, one quart boiling water, and a pinch 
of compressed hops ; boil the potatoes until the skins crack ; 
(the hops should be tied up in a muslin cloth and dropped into 
the water soon after the potatoes are put in) ; mash them with 
the skins on, and pour on the boiled water; add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. A cake of Twin Brothers' yeast dissolved in 
warm water is excellent for starting. Ordinarily the same yeast 
will answer, but occasionally it will be necessary to use the Twin 
Brothers'. — Mrs. Martin. 

RUSK. 

One quart of flour, one tea-cupful of sugar, lard and butter 
size of an egg, two table-spoonfuls of yeast, and enough watei 
to make a sponge. — Mrs. J. H. Eolt. 



48 BREAD EECn-ES. 



RUSK. 

One tea-cnpfiil of butter, one of yeast, three pints of flour, one 
half tea-cupful of sugar, three eggs, not quite a pint of milk; 
boil until reduced to a tea-cupful ; leave out one half pint of 
fljur to mix into it after it becomes light.— Jftss Kale Spears. 

YEAST. 

Three large potatoes, boiled in clear water ; then mash them, 
skin and all, in a quart of the potato water, a table-spoonful of 
sugar, two table-spoonfuls of flour, a tea-cupful of distillers' 
yeast, added after the above preparation is cool. 

TO MAKE THE BREAD. 

One quart flour, one table-spoonful of lard, one table-spoonful 
of sugar, one egg, one half tea-cupful of yeast. Mix with cold 
water, and add a little salt. Work hard the first time, and very 
little the second rising. — Mrs. Jones. 

GEMS. 

One cup of milk, one cup of hot water ; stir in Graham flour 
without sifting, to a batter, quite stiff; beat well. Just drop the 
batter from a large spoon into the muffin irons, previously 
greased and heated. Bake quickly. A pinch of salt. — Mrs. 
Blanton. 

PUFFS. 

Four eggs beaten separately, and very light, one quart of 
sweet milk, one pint of flour, a lump of lard about the size of a 
hon egg. Have the muffin irons well greased and very hot ; 
pour in the batter and bake quickly. 8tir in the whites, well 
frothed, the last thing, and cook at once. — Miss Mattie Clay. 

PUFFS. 

One quart of sifted flour, one pint of sweet milk, one pint of 
cold water, three eggs, one tea-spoonful of salt, one table-spoon- 
ful of lard ; mix the flour with the milk, add the eggs well beaten, 
then water, lastly melted lard; bake in muffin irons. — Mrs. 
Stone, Kansas. 



BREAD EECIPES. 49 



CREAM MUFFINS. 
Take one and a half pints flour, whites only of two eggs ; do 
not use yelks at all; a little salt, just enough sweet cream to 
make the batter right consistency. Grease muffin irons, have 
them hot, and pour them half full. Bake quickly. — Mrs. Heniy 
C. Buckner. 

RICE MUFFINS. 
Five table-spoonfuls each of flour (heaping), corn-meal and 
boiled rice; two eggs beaten separately ; one small tea-spoonful 
soda dissolved in enough sour milk to make batter right consis- 
tency. Beat very hard. — 3Irs. M. T. Scott. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS. 
Take one pint of rich buttermilk, stir in it one half tea-spoon- 
ful soda, until it foams ; have ready three well beaten eggs (beat 
separately), and pour in yellows, one and one half pint of meal ; 
melt a piece of lard about the size of a small hen egg in the 
muffin irons, then pour in the batter ; salt enough to taste. Put 
whites of eggs in last. — Mrs. Mary Webb. 

YEAST MUFFINS. 
One quart flour, one egg, one half tea-cupful yeast, one pint 
new milk, one table-spoonful melted butter added last ; a little 
salt. Put batter to rise, and when light, bake. — Mrs. Scott. 

MUFFINS. 
Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg into one pint of milk ; 
beat three eggs and stir in, sift in enough flour to make the 
batter right consistency ; add one tea-cupful yeast. When light, 
bake. — Mrs. Blanton. 

QUICK MUFFINS. 

Two tea-cupfuls of buttermilk, one tea-cupful of thick cream, 
or three even table-spoonfuls of melted butter, four eggs, one 
half tea-spoonful of soda. Thicken to the consistency of waffle 
batter. — Mn Blanton. 



50 BEEAD EECIPES. 



CORN MUFFINS. 

One pint meal, one half pint buttermilk with one half tea- 
Bpoonful soda in it, yellow of two eggs, one even table-spoonful 
lard. Add the white of eggs last ; beat well. — Ann Downing. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of buckwheat, one and one half pints of skimmed 
milk, a tea-cupful of good yeast, one tea-spoonful of salt ; mix this 
well together, and stir in a table-spoonful of melted lard ; make 
this at night for breakfast. Break one egg iu the batter and 
beat well. — Mrs. L. P. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One and one half pints buckwheat flour, one half pint of corn- 
meal, one quart of water, lard size of a hickory nut, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, table-spoonful sugar, one tea-cupful yeast, a 
pinch of salt, and one egg. In cold weather mix with warm 
water, if the weather is mild use cold water. If wanted for 
breakfast, make about seven o'clock p. m.; if for tea, about ten 
o'clock. If on trying the batter it is sour, add a little soda. — Mrs. 
Martin. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One and one half pints of cold boiled rice ; put it in a pint of 
milk cr water to soak the night before, one quart milk added 
next morning, one quart flour stirred in the rice and milk, two 
eggs well beaten (separately), one half tea-spoonful of soda 
dissolved in a little hot water, one tea-spoonful salt ; stale bread 
crumbs may be mixed with the rice by the above rule, leaving 
out the flour, except just enough to make the cakes turn well on 
the griddle. The rice should be salted when boiled. — Miss E. 
Mitchell. 

CREAM OF TARTAR BISCUIT. 

One quart flour, two tea-spoonfuls cream of tartar, one tea- 
epoonful of soda, enough sweet milk to make rather a soft dough, 
salt to taste, one table-spoonful of lard. Sift soda and cream of 
tartar two or three times. — Mrs. Simmg. 



BREAD RECIPES. 51 



SODA BISCUIT. 

Take one quart of dour, half a pint erf thick buttermilk, one 
table-spoonful of lard, half a tea-spoonful of soda, half a tea- 
spoonfiil of salt.—Aunt Henry. 

SOUR CREAM BISCUIT. 
Sift one tearspoonful of salt, one of soda, . with a quart of flour, 
one pint sour cream. Beat an egg and add to the cream ; mix, 
roll, cut, and bake as quickly as possible. — Mrs. Sibler. 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, one tea-cup of sugar, sour cream enough 
to make a soft dough, one tea-spoonful of soda, one table-spoonful 
of butter ; work sugar, butter and flour together until very fine, 
then add the cream ; work but little ; make into biscuit, and 
bake. — Mrs. Jones. 

LIGHT ROLLS. 

Two pints of flour, a little salt, rub one large spoonful of lard 
through the flour, perfectly smooth ; one tea-cupful of yeast, one 
tea-spoonful of white sugar in the yeast ; make it into a stiff 
dough with cold water. Put in a warm place to rise, then work 
it well and let it rise again. — Miss Kate Spears. 

LIGHT LOAF ROLLS. 

One quart of flour, one table-spoonful of lard, one of sugar, 
one half cake of Twin Brothers' French biscuit yeast, made into 
a sponge. Two hours before making the dough, use one good- 
sized Irish potato, mashed fine in the sponge before making into 
dough. If the sponge is not suflicient to make up the flour, add 
a little cold water, a pinch of salt; work it well, and let it rise ; 
work over the second time, make into small thin rolls, and 
into a loaf. — Miss Kate Spears. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Take ten good-sized potatoes, and boil them in enough water 
to make up the yeast. When nearly done, put them through 
a sifter, and add a tea-cupful of white sugar. Then scald this 



52 BREAD EECIPES. 



with a pint of boiling -water, from which the potatoes were 
taken. Let them stand awhile, and then thin them with the 
rest, or as much of the milk- warm potato water as will make the 
potato quite thin. Start to rise with a small cupful of yeast. A 
tea-cupful of this yeast for three light pints of flour. — Mrs. 
Brutus Clay. 

BREAD MADE WITH FLEISCHMAN'S YEAST. 

Boil one half dozen Irish potatoes in a quart of water, when 
done, mash very fine; add a large tea-cupful of flour; when 
cool, add a piece of this quick yeast about the size of a small 
almond, dissolved in water ; make this sponge at dinner time, 
it will rise in a few minutes ; set it away tiU. about one hour 
before supper, when you can work in enough flour to this 
sponge to make a soft dough ; put in a small lump of lard ; 
mould in any shape you desire, and put to rise; when light, 
bake. — Mrs. Henry Buckner. 

FRENCH BISCUIT. 

Four pints of flour, four eggs, leaving out the yelks of two, 
four tearspoonfuls of white sugar, one tea-cupful of good yeast, 
one table-spoonful of butter or sweet lard, a little salt, one pint 
of new milk ; make into dough and work well, let it rise, work 
again, and then roll out thin, and cut into biscuits; lard on 
one side and lay another on that already greased with lard ; let 
them rise again; bake in rather a quick oven. — Miss Kale 
Spears. 

YANKEE BISCUIT. 

Yeast for it — Five potatoes, mashed smooth, one cupful of 
sugar, one of yeast. To mahe the biscuit — Use one quart of 
flour, one cupful of yeast, lard the size of a walnut, pinch of 
salt ; knead to a stiff dough with very cold water, roU out, and 
cut with a biscuit cutter ; put to rise about two hours before 
baking. 



BREAD RECIPES. 53 



SHORT BISCUIT. 

Three pints of flour, one pint of buttermilk, one tea-spoonfu] 
of soda, a little salt, and a piece of lard a little larger than an 
egg. — Miss Kate Spears. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Two pints of flour, one table-spoonful of lard, one tea-spoonfu] 
salt ; mix into a very stiff dough with equal parts of sweet milk 
and water ; beat thirty minutes with an ax kept for the pur- 
pose ; or, if you use a kneader, run the dough back and forth 
through it until rather soft and perfectly smooth. — Mrs. Martin. 

SALT-RISING BREAD. 

Take one pint of boiling sweet milk and thicken it with meal; 
keep in a warm place all night ; in the morning pour in a tea-cup- 
ful of lukewarm water; then stir in flour until a stiff batter is 
made. Set the batter in a kettle of warm water, to rise ; it will 
be light in two hours ; then take six pints of flour and one tea- 
cupful of lard ; mix with the rising ; knead well, and put in 
pans and let rise ; then bake. 

SALT-RISING BREAD. 

Take half a pint of warm water, table-spoonful of meal, fourth 
of a tea-spoonful of salt, five table-spoonfuls of flour ; slice two 
or three pieces of raw Irish potato in it ; set to rise in tolerably 
warm water. About 11 o'clock stir a little flour in it ; when it 
rises take out the potato before putting the rising into the flour. 
Take five pints of flour, three table-spoonfuls of lard, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and if the rising does not make it tolerably soft, 
add warm water ; knead it well ; you can put in rolls or loaves, 
as you like ; have the pans well greased ; grease the top of the 
bread well with lard, to keep it soft ; set it where it will keep 
warm ; when it rises sufficiently, put it to bake. — Mrs. Morris 

Gass, 

SALT-RISING BREAD. 

Take a tea-cupful of new miik, let it boil, then stir in two table- 

epoonfuls of meali aet it where it will keep warm enough to lighten. 



54 BREAD EECIPES. 



Next morning, thin with warm water, and add two or three 
table spoonfuls of flour and quarter of a tea-spoonful of salt ; set 
it in warm water, and the rising will come quickly. Take two 
quarts of flour, one table-spoonful of lard, about a tea-spoonful of 
salt ; mix with warm water tolerably soft ; knead well ; grease 
pan well and top of bread ; set to lighten in a warm place ; 
when it is quite light, put it to bake. You can make this rising 
in the morning, if you want it warm for supper. — Mrs. Morris 
Gass. 

EXCELLENT SALT RISING. 
Two table-spoonfuls of morning's milk, one pint warm water, 
one tea-spoonful of salt, two pints of flour ; work smoothly, and 
place in a pot of warm water ; set in a warm place ; in five hours 
it will be light. Then take four pints of flour, pour the rising 
in and mix with a little warm water, a pinch of salt, and very 
little lard — a piece about the size of a hen's egg. Mould the 
bread, put to rise, and when light, bake. — Mrs. M. L. Rogers. 

MUSH BATTER CAKES. 

One pint mush, one half pint of flour, two eggs, a pinch of 
salt ; mix up with sweet milk. — Mrs. Holt. 

RICE BATTER CAKES. 

One egg beaten light, one cupful sour milk, with enough soda 
stirred in it to make it foam. Then mash thoroughly two cup- 
fuls of cold boiled rice, put in enough flour to make the cake 
turn well. Have the griddle hot and well greased. — Daisy 
Lyie. 

BREAD CRUMB CAKES. 

Have one half pint light-bread crumbs, one pint flour, one 
egg, a piece of lard the size of a small walnut ; make up with 
sour milk and little soda. — Daisy Lyle. 

CORN MEAL BATTER CAKES. 

One pint corn-meal, three quarters of a pint of sour milfc, 
one small tea-spoonful of soda iu the milk, stirred till it foams, 



BREAD RECIPES. 55 



one egg or two would be better ; salt to taste. Have the grid- 
dle hot and well greased. About one tea-spoonful of flour 
added to the meal is an improvement. — Mias Kate Spears. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Four eggs, one pint sour cream, one pint water, one and one 
half pints of flour, one tea-spoonful of baking powder stirred 
in the cream. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

To one pint flour, add one half pint com-meal, four eggs, one 
table-spoonful yeast, with milk enough to make a stiff batter. 
Set to rise over night. Thin with warm milk and water before 
baking next morning. — Miss Edgar. 

LIGHT ROLLS. 

To one pint of flour, add one table-spoonful of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful salt, whites of two eggs weU frothed, a piece of lard 
the size of a hen egg, five table- spoonfuls of home-made or three 
of distillers' yeast. First mix the lard and flour, then stir in 
the other ingredients, and finally add enough milk-warm water 
to make a thin batter. Set in a warm place and it will rise suf- 
ficiently in two or three hours to work in flour; make the dough 
pretty stiff, work till smooth and tolerably soft. If this is put 
to rise about 12 o'clock, it will be ready for sapper. Do not 
■work it much the last time. Make out in pretty shapes, put to 
rise and bake. — Mrs. 2efee Clay. 

SODA RUSK. 

One egg, a piece of butter the size of a hen egg, three »"p 

fuls flour, one cupful sweet milk, one half tea-cupful sugar 

two tea-spoonfuls cream of tartar, one tea-spoonful of soda.— 

Mrs. Scott. 

RUSK. 

Four pints flour, one pint of sweet milk, one tea-cupful sugar, 

one tea-cupful lard, one tea-cupful yeast, three eggs, one tea- 

epoonful salt ; let the, dough rise twice before you make the 

niaks into shape. — Mrs. Myers. 



66 BREAD EECIPE3. 



RUSK. 

Four eggs, a tea-cupful of butter, one of milk, two of yeast, 
jne lialf pound of sugar ; beat the eggs well, add the sugar and 
some flour ; the butter and milk melted together warm, but not 
too hot ; then more flour, lastly yeast ; add flour enough to 
make in a stiff batter ; set to rise in anything that will hold a 
gallon; when the batter rises to the top, work in flour enough to 
make a stiff dough ; let it rise again to the top, then work in 
flour enough to make rolls for baking. 

POTATO BREAD. 

Two quarts flour, four large Irish potatoes, four eggs, one tea- 
cupful yeast, one table-spoonful of melted lard ; peel and then 
boil the potatoes till they are soft, then mash them till free 
from lumps, mix them well with the flour, then pour in the 
melted lard, also the eggs beaten together light, and then the 
yeast; mix well and knead until perfectly smooth ; put it in a 
pan and rub some lard over the top, to prevent it from becoming 
hard while rising ; let it stand over night and bake in loaves or 
rolls — much better though in loaves. This makes delightful 
rusk by adding sugar, and it also makes nice Sally Lunn. — 
J\Jrs. Kenney. 

RICE CORN-MEAL BREAD. 

To one half pint of meal, add one half pint boiled rice, well 
mashed ; one egg beaten very lightly ; sour milk enough to 
make the batter right consistency ; one half tea-spoonful soda 
stirred in the milk till it foams ; a piece of lard about the size of 
a large almond, melted in the pan you cook it in ; salt to taste. 
Have the pan hot and well greased, sprinkle a little meal in 
the bottom. 

KENTUCKY CORN EGG-BREAD. 

Take one and one half pints of meal, one pint of buttermilk, 
one egg, a small tea-spoonful of soda, one of salt, one table- 
spoonful of lard; mix well and bake quickly.— Jfrs. Morris Gasi. 



BBEAD EECrPES. 57 



OLD FASHIONED CORN DODGERS. 

To a light quart of meal, mix well one tea-spoonful of soda, 
one half tea-spoonful of salt, and one pint of fresh buttermilk. 
Bake in a moderate oven. — Miss Belle MUcheU. 

SALLY LUNN WITHOUT YEAST. 

Beat three eggs separately, two pints of flour, a lump of but- 
ter the size of an egg, one tea-spoonful of soda, two tea-spoonfuls 
of cream of tartar; make it up with sweet milk to a batter, and 
bake quickly. — Miss Kate Spears. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Two pints flour, one table-spoonful lard, one table-spoonful 
butter, one table-spoonful sugar, two tearspoonfuls cream of 
tartar, one of soda, three eggs beaten separately; mix with sweet 
milk ; make batter as thick as for batter-cakes. When ready to 
bake, dissolve the soda and cream of tartar in a little sweet 
milk — put in the last thing. Let the batter stand five or ten 
minutes, then bake rather quickly; leave out sugar if you 
prefer. — Mrs. Kenney. 

SALLY LUNN. 

One tea-cupful yeast, one pint warm sweet milk, a piece of 
butter size of hen egg, two^ pints flour, two eggs, one table- 
spoonful sugar. When ready to put to rise, work in one half 
tea-spoonful soda, or morejf the bread is sour. — Mrs. ilhapline. 

SALLY LUNN. 

One quart of flour, one half pound butter, two eggs, one tea- 
poonful of salt, one half tea-cupful of sweet mUk, and good 
yeast sufficient to mix the dough to a proper consistency. 
Make it up about nine o'clock in the morning in winter, and 
eleven o'clock in summer ; work it over about four o'clock, and 
make it in a round shape into pans and bake for seven o'clock 
tea. Butter, before sending it to the table. — Mrs. J. Payne. 



58 BREAD EEOIPES. 



BROWN BREAD. 

Prepare one quart of corn-meal gruel. Make a sponge of this 
gruel, and some unbolted flour and yeast, according to your 
judgment ; set in a warm place to rise. ' When light, put in 
one tea-cupful of common molasses, a piece of lard about the 
size of a hen egg, a little salt ; work in nearly four pints of un- 
bolted flour. Mould into loaves, and set in a warm place to 
rise a second time. When light, bake. — Mn. J. H. Holt. 

BROWN GEMS. 

One quart unbolted flour, one pint buttermilk, one egg ; 
stir iu the flour very slowly, until it becomes a smooth batter ; 
use soda to sweeten the milk, a pinch of salt. Bake very 
quickly in a hot oven. — Mrs. Barnes, Hot Springs, Arkansas. 

The gems can be baked in muffin irons. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Take two and one half cupfuls unbolted flour, two and one 
half corn-meal, one and one half buttermilk, one of warm 
water, one half tea-cupful molasses, one tea-spoonful salt, one 
tea-spoonful of soda ; stir all together and mix well. Have a 
pan well greased, pour in the batter, set in a steamer over 
a pot of boUing water. Keep up the steam and let it cook for 
three hours, then you can take it out, lay it on a paper, set in a 
moderately heated oven vat, but not long enough to brown it. — 
Mrs. Rvssell. 

STEAM PONE. 

Five tea-cups of corn meal, two of brown flour, one of New 
Orleans molasses, one tea-spoonful of salt, one quart of but- 
ler-milk, two tea-spoonfuls of soda. Mix all well, and put 
into a tin bucket well greased ; fasten the top on securely, 
that the air may not get in ; sink the bucket in a kettle of 
boiling water, and boil hard for six hours. Then slip it out 
of the bucket into a pan, and bake slowly for two hours. 
Nice for lunch. — Mrs. J. B. Rolliday. 



VEGETABLE EECIPES. 59 



VEGBTABtiHS. 



Endeavor to have fresh vegetables, as they become tough, 
and consequently indigestible, when old. Take out all imperfect 
parts, and put them in cold water, until ready for use. Most 
vegetables should be cooked in boiling water, and should not be 
allowed to stand. If compelled to keep them back, set them in 
a steamer on the back of the stove. Never use tepid water, cold 
is preferable — but boiling water best. 

Peas and asparagus should be cooked one hour ; beans, three 
hours ; beets, two hours ; turnips, two hours ; potatoes, half an 
hour ; cauliflower should be wrapped in a cloth and boiled two 
hours, and served with drawn butter. Do not salt vegetables 
until ready to be served for the table. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Peel as many tomatoes as will cover the bottom of the pan, 
and after making an excavation in the center of each, fill with 
crumbs of bread, seasoned highly with pepper, a little salt, but- 
ter, and sugar. Add a little water, to prevent burning, and 
bake two hours. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Peel and slice the tomatoes ; have ready grated bread crumbs, 
seasoned with sugar, butter, cayenne pepper, and salt. Place 
alternate layers of tomatoes and crumbs in the dish, and bake 
two hours. 



60 VEGETABLE EECIPES. 



BROILED TOMATOES. 

Place on a griddle smooth, flat tomatoes, the stem side down ; 
when brown, turn, and cook thoroughly. Serve with butter, 
pepper, and salt. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Take smooth round tomatoes ; cut in thick slices and roll in 
flour ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry in equal parts of 
boiling laxd and butter. 

TO BOIL CORN. 

Select young, tender corn, and put it in boiling water, seasoned 
with a little salt ; boil half an hour ; serve on the cob, or cut off, 
and season with butter, pepper, and salt. 

FRICASEED CORN. 

Cut fresh corn from the cob ; put in a pot and just cover with 
boiling water ; let it boil half an hour ; mix in a half pint of 
cream, a table-spoonful of butter, one of flour, a little salt and 
pepper, and let it boil a few minutes. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Scrape the com from the cob ; add enough morning's milk to 
make it tolerably thin ; add butter and salt according to judg- 
ment. Do not use pepper until served for the table. — Mn. JS. 
G. Buehier. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS, 

Twelve ears of tender corn, grated or scraped, as for the 
above pudding ; one tea-spoonful of salt, one of pepper, one egg 
beaten into two large table-spoonfuls flour ; mix thoroughly ; 
make in small cakes ; fry in hot lard or butter. — Mrs. Buckner. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Grate six ears of corn and mix it with two eggs, one spoonful 
of butter, pepper and salt to the taste, cine table-spoonful of flour. 
Pry a light brown. — Mrs. J. P. 



VEGETABLE EECrPES. 61 



CORN PUDDING. 

Scrape the corn off of two dozen ears ; add gne pint of sweet 
milk, half pound of butter, three eggs beaten well, and a little 
flour ; salt to taste. Bake one hour. 

A NICE WAY TO PREPARE RICE. 

One tea-cupful rice boiled in the usual way ; drain carefully ; 
stir in two well beaten eggs, one table-spoonful of grated cheese, 
half a table-spoonful of butter, half a tea-spoonful of salt. 
Bake a few minutes in shallow pans. — Mrs. Simms. 

HOMINY. 

Large hominy is better after being soaked over night. Put it 
to boQ early in the morning, in a vessel carefully cleaned. A 
tin vessel is best for cooking hominy, in order to have it white. 
Small hominy will cook in a shorter time. Hominy will 
keep in a cool place several days. 

HOW TO COOK HOMINY. 

Wash slightly in cold water, and soak twelve hours in tepid 
soft water ; then boil slowly from three to six hours in the same 
water, more being added from time to time, with great care, to 
prevent burning. Do not salt while cooking, as that or hard 
water will harden the corn ; so it will peas or beans (dry or 
green), and rice.— Jfrs. E. McCamey. 

DRESSING FOR SLAW. 

Yelks of two eggs well beaten, one third of a tea-cupful of vin- 
egar, a tea-cupful of new milk or cream, and a tea-spoonful of 
mixed mustard, black or cayenne pepper, salt, piece of butter 
size of an egg. Stir on the fire until thick as custard ; then 
pour on the cabbage. 

DRESSING FOR SLAW, OR LETTUCE. 

Yelks of three eggs ; mix with them half a tea-spoonful of 
mustard, half a teaspoonful of salt ; pour this in half a tea-cup 
of vinegar ; add a tea-spoonful of butter ; enough pepper to taste. 



62 VEGETABLE EECIPES. 

Steam this over a kettle of boiling water until it becomes the 
consistency of C4istard. Just before taking it up ; stir in a half 
tea-cupful of fresh sweet milk. — Mrs. Jones. 

SLAW. 

One half head of good cabbage chopped finely, the yelks of 
two eggs, beat and put in a little vinegar, also some sour butter- 
milk if convenient ; salt and butter to taste ; boil thick and pour 
over the slaw. 

HOW TO PREPARE SWEET POTATOES. 

Take large potatoes and put them on to boil, or steam. When 
nearly done, take out and peel; slice not quite half au inch thick. 
Put in a baking pan with a very little water. Sprinkle white 
?ugar thickly over them and spread each slice with butter. Set 
them in the stove to brown. 

POTATOES FOR BREAKFAST. 

Pare and slice the potatoes, boil them ; put a layer in a pan, 
with a little butter, pepper and salt, then another layer of pota- 
toes, and so on until the pan is full. Pour in a tea-cupful sweet 
cream, sprinkle a little flour over the top and bake tiU brown. 
— Mrs. Stoner. 

TO BOIL POTATOES. 

When potatoes are old, pare them and drop them into a pot 
of boiling water, and boil until a fork can be run through them 
easily ; if you wish them whole, pour off the water and put in a 
little salt, and let them remain over the coals a few minutes. 
This will make them mealy. If you wish mashed potatoes, 
take them up and mash and beat thoroughly ; add a spoonful 
of cream, butter and salt. When potatoes are young and small, 
take about three and put them in a cloth and squeeze. This 
makes them mealy, and gives the appearance of large potatoes. 
Dress with cream and butter. 



VEGETABLE EECDPES. 63 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Two ciipfuls mashed potatoes ; stir in two table-spoonfuls 
melted butter, beaten to a cream, add two well beaten eggs and 
one cup of cream. Pour into a deep dish and bake in a quick 
oven. — Mrs. Ed. Taylor. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Boil the potatoes as above ; when just done take them up and 
mash and beat them well ; have ready some boiling milk, and 
stir into the potatoes with butter and salt ; have ready a pan of 
hot waier and with the hands form the potatoes into balls (be. 
tween each ball dip the hand in the water); put in a round 
pan with one on top, bake until a light brown. This makes a 
beautiful and delightful dish. — Mrs. R. Payne. 

TO COOK PARSNIPS. 

First scrape the parsnips, slice lengthways, and parboil, then 
place them in a long baking pan, with just enough water 
to prevent them from burning ; sprinkle brown sugar over them 
and place strips of fat bacon on the parsnips, to season ; bake till 
brown. On taking them up, pepper well and lay aside the 
bacon. 

MACARONI. 

Boil one pound of macaroni until tender, but not enough for 
it to break ; take a quarter of a pound of butter and the same 
quantity of grated cheese ; have a deep dish and put into it a 
layer of macaroni, and scatter over it bits of butter, and then 
put in a layer of cheese, and continue so until all are used; then 
put some bits of butter on the top, season with pepper and salt, 
and then bake. — 31rs. Cunningham. 

HOW TO PREPARE CASHAW, 

Cut and peel off the rind, steam or boil until tender and 
thoroughly dry ; mash well and free entirely from lumps ; sea- 
eon plentifully with butter; add sugar to the taste. Place all 



64 VEGETABLE EECIPES. 

in a deep pan, sprinkle a little sugar over the top and lay bits of 
butter in places over the cashaw. Put inside the stove, and let 
it remain until it browns. 

TO COOK SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT. 

"Wash, scrape and slice in round pieces ; boil in salt water 
until perfectly tender, then drain off the water ; pour over a 
little sweet milk, or cream, if you have it, together with a piece 
of butter rolled in flour, season with pepper and a little salt ; let 
simmer a few minutes ; take off and pour over a little vinegar, 
sweetened with sugar. Mix well, and serve hot, in a covered 
dish. 

TO STEW YOUNG ONIONS. 

Put the onions in boiling water ; boil two hours or until ten- 
der, then mash them and stew ten minutes in a little cream ; 
butter, salt and pepper to the taste. — Mrs. Martin. 

TO COOK CYMBLINGS. 

Put the cymblings in boiling water, or in a steamer over boil- 
ing water ; boil three hours ; then mash thoroughly and stew in 
cream and butter. Add salt and pepper to taste. — Mrs. Mar- 
tin. 

FRIED PEACHES. 

Take firm, large free-stone peaches, halve them, and place them 
cup down in a skillet of boiling lard or butter (to suit taste). 
When the edges are nicely browned, turn them up and fill the 
cups with white sugar, and cook till thoroughly done. A most 
excellent relish. — Mim F. SJmrt. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Peel a nice, large egg plant, cut in thin slices, lay in salt 
water two or three hours, then steam until tender. Make a 
batter of two eggs, first beaten separately, then together ; a 
tea-cupful of sour cream, a tea-spoonful of salt, half tea-spoonfiil 
of soda, and flour to thicken; dip the slices of egg plant in the 
batter, and fry till a light brown in boiling lard ; serve hot. 
A.n excellent breakfast dish. — Miss Short. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 65 



FRIED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Slice the tomalOv>s and lay in salt water a half hour, drain 
and roll in corn-meal, and fry in hot lard ; salt and pepper to 
taste. — Miss Sliori. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 

Slice the cucumbers lengthwise, lay in salt water a while, 
drain and roll in corn-meal, and fry in hot lard ; salt and pep- 
per to taste. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Take twelve ears of corn, grate them ; one quart of rich 
milk ; stir into the milk quarter of a pound of melted butter, 
white sugar to make a little sweet, four eggs well beaten, last 
the grated corn ; put the mixture into a dish and bake. — 
Mrs. J. A. Sowerton. 

DRESSING FOR SLAW. 

Two-thirds of a cup of vinegar, two-thirds of a cup of 
cream, lump of butter size of a walnut, one table-spoonful 
mixed mustard, one table-spoonful celery seed, pepper and 
salt to taste. Boiled until thick, and poured over the chopped 
cabbage when cold.— Mrs. Whitlock, Newstead, Ky. 

TO BOIL GREEN PEAS. 

Shell and wash the peas; put them into a stew-pan in 
plenty of boiling water ; put in salt, a tea-spoonful of pow- 
dered white sugar, and boil twenty minutes, when they will 
be tender, if young ; if they are old they will require a longer 
time. Drain them in a cullender, and dish them immediately. 
If peas are allowed to stand in water after being boiled the^ 
lose their color. 



66 OMELETTE EECIPES. 



OM3BI.BTT]BS. 



OMELETTE-VERY FINE. 

Six eggs, beaten separately ; one tumbler sweet milk , reserve 
about one fourth, into which stir one table-spoonful flour ; 
when the milk boils, stir in the paste, add salt, and about one 
table-spoonful of butter ; put aside to cool. Mince a little ham; 
chop fine some parsley and thyme, a spoonful of each, and two 
of ham ; stir the yellows, ham and herbs into thickened milk, 
adding the well beaten six whites. Grease the skillet: bake 
in the stove. You can leave out ham and herbs if you choose. 
— Mrs. Mary L. Rogers. 

OMELETTE— BREAKFAST DISH. 

Beat six eggs separately ; a slice of light bread, grated ; a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut ; one cupful of morning's milk; 
pepper and salt to the taste ; stir in the six whites, well beaten. 
— Miss Jennie Cook. 

PUFF OMELETTE. 

Beat the yellows of six eggs, pour in a tea-cupful sweet 
morning's milk, add a pinch of salt. Beat together each a table- 
spoonful of butter and flour until smooth, add to the eggs, and 
beat all together well ; put into a frying pan that has been 
well greased, and when it begins to thicken, add six whites 
beaten to a stiff froth, and another small pinch of salt. When 
"tiff" it is done. — Mrs. Stoner. 



OMELETTE EECIPES. G7 

TO POACH EGGS. 

Have a pau boiling water ; have the eggs carefully broken 
and slip them into the boiling water ; let them remain till the 
whites are set, and take out with spoon ; put in a dish and pour 
ou some drawn butter. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Fry bacon in slices, then remove from the pan ; have the 
eggs ready and slip into the gravy. When done, serve with the 
meat, an egg on top of each slice. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Have in the frying pan some butter or ham drippings ; break 
the eggs and cook quickly, stirring constantly. Serve immedi- 
ately. 

TO BOIL EGGS. 

Have boiling water ; drop in the eggs and let them remain 
three minutes, if you wish the whites congealed ; if not, let them 
remain a shorter time. Silver spoons used in eating eggs should 
be put in water immediately. 

COLUMBUS EGGS— A NICE SIDE DISH. 

Take twelve hard-boiled eggs, peel off shells and cut the eggs 
in equal halves, cutting off a little piece from one end, to enable 
them to stand alone ; pulverize the yelks and chop fine some 
smoked tongue or old lean ham ; mix together and moisten 
slightly with a little fresh butter or vinegar, and season with 
black pepper, salt and mustard to suit the taste ; fill the cups 
or the empty whites (be careful not to break them) with this mix- 
ture, pressing down and smoothing nicely ; arrange them on a 
dish, putting two halves together and standing them upright, 
so as to look like whole eggs. — Mrs. Kenney. 

DRESSED EGGS. 

Take any number of eggs ; boil hard and cool them in water ; 
peel and divide the whites carefully, cut the long way, lay the 



68 OMELETTE EECIPES. 



pieces in pairs on a dish ; mash the yelks with a small quantity 
of butter and minced ham ; season highly with salt, pepper 
and mustard (add a very small quantity of onion) ; make the 
dressing into very small balls, place in the cavities of the 
whites and close very neatly as whole eggs. — Mn. AUen Bashford. 

OMELET. 

Six eggs, beaten separately and very light ; one tea-cup of 
milk, a little pepper, salt and melted butter, mixed with the 
yelks. Add the whites just before putting into the pan, 
which should be hot, with a small piece of butter in it. When- 
brown cut in two parts and roll. — Mrs. A. Bashford. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

One quart of vinegar, half dozen cloves, one dozen all- 
spice, one tea-spoonful pepper, one table -spoonful mustard. 
Place in a kettle over the fire until boiling, which jjour over 
one dozen hard-boiled eggs, previously shelled and placed in 
a jar. — Mrs. Edward Caldwell, Louisville, Ky. 

A MADE DISH OF EGGS. 

Boil hard one dozen eggs, cut them in slices, and place in 
layers in a pudding dish. Over each layer sprinkle grated 
cheese, pepper, and salt. When the dish is filled, pour over 
all a white sauce, made of a pint of milk, table-spoonful of 
flour, and the same of butter. Then brown in the oven, 
Sorve hot. 



RECIPES FOE CANNED FKUITS. 69 



CANNBO FRUITS, JSTC. 



I 



TO CAN GREEN CORN. 
Cut from the cob twenty-one quarts of corn, dissolve three 
and a half ounces of tartaric acid in a little hot water, put 
plenty of water, together with the tartaric acid, on the corn, 
and boil well ; when well cooked, put in tin can and seal at once. 
"When ready for use, drain off the water, add one tea-spoonful of 
soda, a little sugar, salt and butter to taste. — Mrs. Hattie Kenney. 

GREEN CORN FOR WINTER USE. 

Select young, tender corn, and boil (on the cob) until about 
half -done ; cut it from the cob quite fine. To one gallon of 
com allow one pint of salt, mixing when the corn is cold ; spread 
out on a cloth to dry a little, then pack iu a jar, putting a layer 
of salt first, and then the corn, until the jar is almost filled ; 
then add a layer of salt, and fit a board on top, on which a weight 
should be placed. To prepare for the table, boil in a good deal 
of water, and if it should be too salty, pour off the water and 
add fresh boiling water ; season with butter, pepper, and a little 
Bugavat— Mrs. Amos Tumey, Br. 

TO CAN TOMATOES AND OKRA FOR SOUP. 

Throw ripe tomatoes into boiling water, and then peel them ; 
put into a bell metal kettle and boil ; as the water rises, dip part 
of it off, or it will require a long time to reduce the tomatoes so 
as to can ; boil until almost ready for table use ; in the mean- 



70 EECIPES FOE CANNED TEUITS. 

time wash the okra and cut cross-wise and drop into boiling 
water ; boil half an hour ; skim several times ; dip up with a 
perforated ladle and drop into the tomatoes, and let all boil half 
an hour ; put into tin cans, and seal while hot.— Mrs. Martin. 

TO CAN PEACHES. 

Make a rich syrup and drop the peaches in ; let them get hot 
through ; then put in the jars and seal at once. — Mrs. Jones. 

TO CAN FRUIT. 

Scald the fruit in a large kettle, with juice or water to cover 
it ; put the cans and tops into a vessel of cold water ; let them 
boil ; as soon as they are hot, fill with the fruit, which must be 
hot also ; let them remain open until cool ; cut paper size of the 
can and put over the fruit ; fill with juice, and seal. — Mrs. 
Howerton. 

TO SEAL PRESERVES, 

Beat the white of an egg, take tissue paper the size you require, 
dip into the egg, wetting the paper on both sides ; cover the jar, 
carefully pressing it around the sides securely. — Mrs. Howerton. 

TO CAN APPLES. 

Take green, acid apples, peel them and cut «p in slices ; when 
thoroughly done, strain through a sieve, put in air-tight cans, 
seal while hot. If you prefer, you can add quarter of a pound 
of sugar to a pound of apples ; they keep just as well without. 
— Mrs. Garrett. 

TO CAN TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water on the tomato, so as to take off the peel- 
ing readily ; put them in the kettle and cook down till the water 
from the tomatoes is nearly out ; can while hot, and seal imme- 
diately. — Aunt Harriet. 

TO CAN PEACHES AND PEARS. 

Select ripe fruit, peel, stone, and drop into cold water ; one 
pound of fruit to a quarter of a pound of sugar ; put in a kettle 
with a little water (to prevent burning), and boil till tender. 
Perfectly ripe fruit requires but little boiling.— ilfra. Martin. 



PASTEY RECIPES. 71 



PASTRY. 



All pastry should be made as quickly as possible and handled 
very little ; it should also be made in a cool place, and in summer 
use ice water, and roll on a marble slab ; the butter should be sweet 
and fresh, and the salt thoroughly washed from it ; use as little 
water as possible, or the paste will become tough ; bake in a 
moderate oven, in order to give time to rise. Boiled paste is 
best made of suet, which should be minced very fine and well 
mixed with flour. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of flour — sift the flour, and 
then sift in something else a little additional flour for sprinkling 
and rolling ; wash all the salt from the butter ; then divide it into 
four parts, put one fourth into the flour and divide the remain- 
der in six pieces ; mix with a knife the flour and butter into a 
stifi" dough, sprinkle a little flour on the paste board, flour the 
rolling pin and roll into a thin sheet ; then put in little bits at 
equal distances one sixth of the butter, fold the paste, flour it 
and toll again, and so on until the butter is consumed. Divide 
into as many pieces as you wish pies ; roU each piece and put 
into pans previously buttered; always roll from you. — Mrs. 
Martin. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of flour, fourteen ounces of good butter; rut) into 
the flour two ounces of the butter, having washed all the salt 



72 PASTRY RECEPES. 



out of butter ; then make a dough with enough cold water to 
moisten, and if possible make the paste in a cool place, roll the 
dough into a sheet and place the remainder of butter over it ; 
roll out four times ; do not use it for an hour. — C E. F. Hegman. 

CONFECTIONERS' PASTE- 

One pound of sugar, one pound butter, two pounds of flour, 
four eggs, a little cinnamon, and a small quantity of baking pow- 
der ; rub butter and sugar together, then add eggs, one half tea- 
spoonful baking powder, then the cinnamon, add flour next, and 
moisten with milk — enough to make a dough. — G. E. F, Hegman. 

COMMON PIE CRUST. 
Two quarts of flour, one pound of butter ; divide the butter 
in equal parts, and cut up one half of it into the flour, rubbing 
it fine ; mix with a little cold water into a stiff dough ; flour the 
board and roll into a thiri sheet ; spread on the rest of the but- 
ter, flour and fold up and roll; then fold again into a 
scroll and divide into as many parts as desired, and roU out 
nearly an inch. thick. — Mrs: M . 

LARD PASTE. 

One half pound of lard, one half pound of butter ; rub this 
together into two and a quarter pounds of flour, and mix with 
cold water into a stifi" dough ; roll out twice. — Mrs. M 

SUET PASTE. 

One pound of beef suet to two quarts of flour ; remove all 
strings, etc., from the suet and chop fine ; rub one half into the 
flour and mix with cold water ; roll out quite thin, and put on the 
remaining suet ; flour and roll again, and divide into as many 
pieces as you want sheets of paste. This is suitable paste for 
dumplings or pot pies. — Mrs. M . 

CHEESE CAKE. 

Beat the yelks of ten eggs, the whites of two ; then take one- 
half pound sugar, one-half pound butter, work well together; 



PASTRY RECIPES. 73 



beat in the eggs, flavor with nutmeg ; bake the crust a little 
before putting in the custard ; when the pudding is done, spread 
a layer of acid jeUy over, and make an icing of the remaining 
whites ; flavor with lemon, spread over, and brown slightly. — 
Mrs. Wilson. 

TRANSPARENT PUDD[NG, 

Three eggs beaten together until perfectly light, one tea-cup- 
ful white sugar, one tea-cupful butter, beaten to a cream ; put 
a layer of citron or acid jelly at the bottom of crust, then pour 
the transparency over. — Mrs. Holliday. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Nine eggs — put in only three whites, one pound of sugar, one 
half pound butter, one wine-glassful wine, two nutmegs grated. 
Take remainder of whites and make a meringue. When the 
puddings are baked and cold, spread on the icing and brown. 
Bake iu paste. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Four eggs — beat separately, one cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar ; beat butter and sugar to a cream, add yelks, two table- 
spoonfuls of jeUy. Flavor to taste ; add the whites as a meringue. 
Excellent. — Miss Iva McCwmey. 

ORANGE ROLEY POLEY. 

Make a light paste as for apple dumplings ; roll in oblong 
sheets, and lay oranges, peeled, sliced and seeded, thickly, aU 
over it ; sprinkle with white sugar, scatter a tea-spoonful or two 
of the grated orange peel over all and roll up closely, folding 
down the ends securely, to keep the syrup from running out. 
l3oil in a cloth one and one half hours. Eat with lemon sauce, 
prepared as follows : Six eggs, leaving out the whites of two, 
one half pound of butter, one pound sugar, juice of two lemons 
and rind of both grated. Put in a tin pan over a slow fire ; 
3tir until it thickens like honey. Very fine. 



74 PASTEY EECIPES. 



CREAM PIE. 

Two eggs, one cupful sugar, two table-spoonfuls corn starch; 
beat eggs, sugar, and starch together. Boil one pint milk, sea- 
son with vanilla ; just- as it boils, stir in the mixture ; stir all 
the time, until it thickens. I5efore cooking stir in one table-spoon- 
ful of butter ; this is for the pie. Take three eggs, one cupful su- 
gar, one quarter tea-spoonful soda in one half cupful sour cream, 
one tea-spoonful of cream tartar mixed in one and one half 
cupfuls of flour. Bake quickly in jelly cake pans. When 
cold, slice the cake and put in layers of the above cream, 

CREAM PIES. 

Five eggs (yellows), one tea-cupful of butter, one pint of gran- 
ulated sugar, one table-spoonful of flour, one pint of rich cream. 
This quantity will make two puddings. Bake in paste. Make 
a meringue of the five whites. — Mrs. Bpeara. 

CREAM PIES. 

One pint of milk with a vanilla bean boiled in it, eight eggs, 
three quarters of a pound of sugar, two ounces of flour ; mix 
together and stir into boiling milk ; when cool, put into pastry 
and bake. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Beat seven eggs very light ; add a half pound of sugar ; stir 
in one quart rich morning's milk ; season to taste ; bake in puff 
paste. 

BOURBON PUDDING. 

One tea-cupful of butter, one of cream, two and a half cupfuls 
sugar, yelks of four eggs well beaten, one table-spoonful of flour; 
flavor to taste, and bake in rich paste. — Mrs. Ed. Taylor. 

KENTUCKY PUDDING. 

Three fourths of a cup of butter, two and a half cupfuls of 
sugar, three eggs, one cup of cream, three tabl&«poonfuls flour; 
season with lemon, and bake in paste. 



PASTRY RECIPES. 75 



VINEGAR PUDDING. 

Six eggs, three tea-cupfuls sugar, one tea-cupful butter, one 
taUe-spoonful strong vinegar diluted with one of water, three 
table-spooufuls flour, a half tea-spoonful soda, three or four 
drops of oil of lemon. This quantity makes four puddings. 
—Mrs. Will Tayl(yr. 

ANOTHER VINEGAR PUDDING. 

Four eggs, four table-spoonfuls butter, three cupfuls sugar, four 
table-spoonfuls flour ; vinegar to taste. — Mrs. J. A. HowerUm, 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel, seed, and cut in small pieces four good-sized oranges, 
add a cupful of white sugar, and let it stand a while. Into a 
quart of nearly boiling milk stir two table-spoonfuls of corn 
starch mixed with a little water, and the yelks of three eggs 
beaten light. When cooked to the consistency of thick custard, 
put away to cool, after which mix with the orange and sugar ; 
make a frosting of the four whites of eggs and powdered sugar. 
Cook the pudding in pastry. When done, spread on the mer- 
ingue, and brown slightly. — Mrs. L. H. Blanton. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
Half a pound butter, half a pound sugar, two ounces sponge 
cake rubbed fine, five eggs, two table-spoonfuls brandy, juice 
and grated rind of one lemon. — Mrs. John Say. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
Take quarter of a pound of butter, quarter pound sugar, 
cream well together ; add three eggs, and the juice and grated 
rind of one lemon, or about three fourths of a tea-spoonful of 
citric acid dissolved in hot water, flavored with extract of lemon. 
Put on the stove and stir all the time, till thick : when cool, put 
in pastry and hake.— Mrs. Lmirenee Jones. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Grate the rind and press out the juice of four lemons, yelks 
of eight eggs beaten very light, and mix with the lemon, five 



76 PASTEY EECrPES. 



tea-spoonfuls com starcli dissolved in one and one third pints 
of-new milk ; beat all well together, and sweeten to taste. Have 
the crust ready, and pour in the custard ; let bake till thick; 
then make an icing of the eight whites and powdered sugar, until 
stiff enough ; spread over puddings, and brown slightly. Thig 
quantity makes four puddings. Two table-spoonfuls of butter to 
be used for the custard.— ifra. R. Hanson.^ 

LEMON PUDDiNG. 

Yellows of four eggs, eight table-spoonfuls of sugar, two ot 
melted butter, two lemons grated (use both the rind and pulp, 
and be sure to take out the seed, as one left will make the cus- 
tard bitter) ; use four table-spoonfuls sugar to the four whites 
for meringue ; bake in paste. — Mrs. Frank Massie. 

LEMON PIE. 

Two lemons ; bake them a short time, then squeeze and strain 
the juice ; boil the rind in half a pint of water ; then pour the 
water in the following mixture; two cups of sugar, half cupful 
sweet milk, one table-spoonful corn starch, one of butter, yelks of 
six eggs. Bake it in paste ; then beat the whites with eight table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and pour over the pie ; brown slightJy. This 
quantity makes two pies. — Mrs. Mitchell. 

SNOW DUMPLINGS. 

Have several apples pared and cored ; wash a pint of rice, and 
roll the apples in it, so that the rice will adhere ; have ready a 
nice, short pie crust, wrap the apples in a piece of the dough, 
and roU the dumpling in rice again, and so on until you use up 
the apples. Put a napkin in the steamer, place it over a pot 
of boiling water, and put in the dumplings ; steam till done ; 
eat with cream sauce. — Mrs. Alice Garrett. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
Pare and core the apples ; fill up the holes with sugar, a little 
butter, a little cinnamon (ground), and a small piece of lemon 
or orange peel. Make a rich custard, with one pint sweet milk 



PASTEY RECIPES. 77 



and two eggs, sweeten and flavor to taste ; thicken with a little 
flour, pour over apples and bake. — Llzde. 

BM<.ED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Peel and core several acid apples ; fiU the holes with sugar, 
butter, and some ground cinnamon or nutmeg. Have prepared 
o nice, short crust, roll it out and inclose the apples in it ; place 
the dumplings in a deep pan, and pour over them enough warm 
■water to half cover the dumplings, previously sweetened to taste, 
a piece of butter the size of a goose egg melted in it, aud flar 
vored with nutmeg. Set in the stove and bake till a light 
brown ; if the water should cook out before they are done, add a 
little more hot water. Serve with sohd sauce ; flavor according 
to taste. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Two tea-cupfuls apples, stewed and strained ; two tea-cupfuls 
sugar, one tea-cupful butter, seven yellows of eggs ; take the 
whites of five eggs, and a half cupful of sugar, beat very light 
and spread over the puddings ; brown slightly. — Mrs. S. Clay. 

APPLE CUSTARD FOR PIES. 

Six eggs, two cupfuls apples, two of sugar, nearly one cupful 
butter, the juice of one lemon; leave two whites for the 
meringue. — Mrs. Sam. Clay. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Three tea-cupfuls apples, stewed and strained, two tearcupfuls 
sugar, one tea-cupful butter, seven eggs ; leave out the whites of 
four for meringue ; bake in paste. — Mrs. Buckner. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

One dozen apples, stewed and strained, six eggs, one-hall 
pound butter, one pound sugar, one nutmeg, season with lemon 
juice or peel ; bake with paste or not. 



78 PASTRY EECIPES. 



QUINCE PUDDING. 

To six large, ripe quinces, stewed and strained, one half pint 
sweet cream, one half pint sugar, seven eggs ; omit all the whites 
but two ; add lemon juice to the taste. — Mrs. S. Buckner. 

CITRON PUDDING. 

One half pound sugar, same of butter, seven eggs, juice and 
ruid of one lemon, cooked on the fire till thick as molasses ; 
brandy and spices to be put in afterward with slices of citron. — 
Miss Hawes. 

PRESERVE PUDDING (CHERRY). 

One cupful sugar, one cupful of acid preserves (cherry is better 
than anything else), one half cupful butter, five eggs beaten sep- 
arately. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Six eggs, one and a half cupfuls sugar, one cupful of butter, 
one and a half cupfuls of cherry preserves. — Mrs. S. Clay. 

MINCED PIES. 

Two pounds of beef, finely chopped ; one pound suet, nicely 
shred ; one dozen apples, pared and chopped small ; two pounds 
currants or raisins, stoned and floured ; three quarters of a pound 
of sugar, with nutmeg, mace, and cloves. Dried cherries are 
very good. Mix aU together ; stir with it sweet cider, French 
or peach brandy; slice in citron or preserved orange peel; some 
use cider and brandy, too — a quart of cider or a tea-cupful of 
brandy. — Mrs. Washington, Ya. 

RECIPE FOR MINCE MEAT. 
Two table-spoonfuls ground cinnamon, two nutmegs grated, 
four dozen cloves, one table-spoonful powdered mace, one pound 
brown sugar, two pounds of meat chopped fine, two of suet, four 
pounds raisins, two pounds currants, four pounds apples chopped 
fine, old whisky or brandy to suit the taste. — Mi^ MaUeck. 



PASTEY EECrPES. 79 



MINCE MEAT. 
Two pounds of meat chopped fine, after being cooked , two 
pounds of suet chopped fine, four pounds of raisins, four pounds 
of apples, eight oranges, the peel of one, half pound of citron, 
all chopped fine ; one ounce of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of 
nutmeg, two pounds of brown sugar.— ifra. N. B. Rian, Jr. 

SWEETMEAT PUDDING. 

Make pastry for two bottom crusts, spread on with acid 
preserves. Then beat four eggs, two cups sugar, one table- 
spoon butter and one of flour, together. Pour tliis mixture 
on the preserves and bake. It is much improved by spread- 
ing on a meringue on the top, after the pudding is baked. — 
Mrs. B. Douglass. 

MALBORCUGH PUDDING. 

Six tart apples grated, or six table-spoons of stewed apples, 
one ounce of sifted sugar, one ounce of butter or a pint of 
cream, one egg, the grated peel of one lemon and half the 
juice. Stir together the butter and sugar as for cake, then 
add the other ingredients and bake in a rich paste. — Mrs. B. 
Douglass, Pisgah Manse. 

CHESS CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, yelks of twelve 
eggs, whites of three, lemon flavoring. Mix well in a bowl 
that can be placed in a vessel of hot water over the flre, until 
the mixture (constantly stirred) is of the consistency of honey. 
Bake in paste in small tart pans. — Miss Jennie Macrae, Clarks- 
ville, Tenn. 

MINCE MEAT. 

One beef tongue chopped fine, twelve pints apples chopped 
fine, three pints currants, one pint raisins, one pint citron 
sliced very thin, two ounces cinnamon, two ounces mace, two 
table-spoons cloves, one pint brandy. Pulverize spices, mix 
all together, stir well, and pack in a jar with three-fourtha 
pint of brandy poured on top. Tie closely. — Mrs. Tubmin, 
Augusta, Ga. 



80 PUDDING EECrPES. 



PUO»IHGS. 



SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Boil and peel the potatoes, mash and rub through a sieve, to 

make it loose and light ; stir to a cream, quarter of a pound of 

butter, quarter of a pound of sugar ; add a grated nutmeg, one 

tea-spoonful of cinnamon, half a glass of brandy. Beat three 

eggs till smooth, stir them into the mixture of butter and sugar 

alternately with the potato ; at last, mix all thoroughly by hard 

stirring. Have a deep baking dish, lay a border of puff paste 

all around, and pour in the mixture. Set the pudding in a 

quick oven, and when cool sift white sugar over. — Mrs, W. 

Jones. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Two pounds of potatoes, steam entirely done, and slice them; 
make a syrup of one tea-cupful butter, two tea-cupfuls sugar, 
three quarters of a tea-cupful of good wine, one dessert-spoonful 
of allspice pounded fine, enough water to make one and a half 
pints of the syrup ; boil for a short while, and line a deep pan 
with rich paste, and bake slightly ; put in a layer of sliced po- 
tatoes and pour over some of the syrup ; then another layer of 
potatoes, and the rest of the syrup. Cover with crust, and 
bake. — Mrs. Sam Brooks. 

IRISH POTATO PUDDING. 

One and a half pints of fine mashed potatoes, one pint cream, 
one nutmeg, one and a half pounds sugar, one and a half pounds 
butter, ten eggs. Bake in paste ; then spread on meringue and 
brown. 



PUDDING KECn?ES. 81 



IRISH POTATO PUDDING. 

Two tea-cupfuls sugar, two tea-ciipfuls butter, one tea-cupful 
sweet cream, eight eggs, two and a half pints mashed potatoes, 
one nutmeg grated. — Mn. Henry Buckner. 

ANOTHER POTATO PUDDING. 

One pound mashed potatoes, one pound sugar, nine eggs beatou 
Beparately, three quarters pound butter ; flavor with anything 
you please. This quantity will make six puddings. — Mrs. Dr. 
Barnes. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One nut grated fine, whites of six eggs, one half pound of 
white sugar, one half pound of butter, juice of three lemons 
strained ; add the milk of nut if not thin enough. Mix well, 
and after the pastry is baked, pour on the mixture and bake a 
few minutes. — Mrs. Allen Bashford. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 
One quarter pound butter, one quarter pound sugar, cream 
well together, add three eggs and tea-cupful cream or rich milk, 
in which the cocoanut has been soaked. Use as much of the 
cocoanut as you like. Cook before putting in pastry. — Mrs, 
Lavrrence Jones. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Four yellows, one pint cocoanut, one pint sugar, one tea-cup- 
ful butter, make a meringue of the whites. Use milk af cocoa- 
nut. Bake in paste. — Mrs. Mary Wehh. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

One tea-«upful jelly, one tea-cupful sugar, one half tea-cupful 
butter, two eggs, four table-spoonfuls wine, nutmeg to the taste. 

Mrs. Jones. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

For two pies. One tea-cupful of sour jelly, two of sugar, 
six eggs, lump of butter the size of a hen's egg, two table-spoon- 
fuJs of flour, tea-spooufui of lem&n extract. — Miss Jennie Kenny. 



82 PUDDING RECIPES. 



JELLY PUDDING. 

Seven eggs (keeping back four whites for top), one half 
pound of butter, two tea-cupfuls of sugar and one of jelly. Bake 
in a paste. — Mrs. William Buckner. 

MOLASSES PUDDING. 
Two and one half cupfuls sugar, one cupful molasses, three 
eggs beaten separately, one table-spoonful butter, two table* 
spoonfuls of cream. Bake in paste. — Mrs. Robert Stoner. 

MOLASSES PIE. 

One tea-cupful of sugar, one tea-cupful of molasses, four eggs 
beaten separately, two table-spoonfuls of butter. — Mrs. N. B, 
Bion, Jr. 

MOLASSES PIE. 

Three eggs, one half tea-cupful butter, one half cupful flour, 
one pint of molasses. — Mrs. Geo. Davis. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Three eggs beaten together, two tea-cupfuls of sugar, one 
half cupful butter, two large potatoes ; put the butter into the 
potatoes while hot, after putting the potatoes through a sieve ; 
mix together the eggs and sugar, then pour into the butter and 
potatoes ; beat all together thoroughly. Season with orange. — 
Mrs. Howerton. 

JAM PUDDING. 

One tea-cupful of creamed butter, one tea-cupful of sugar, 
one tea-cupful of jam, three eggs beaten separately, cinnamon 
and spice to taste. 

PUMPKIN PUDDING. 

Twelve eggs, one and one half pounds of loat sugar, one half 
pound of butter, one quart cream, one half pound pumpkin ; 
strain the pumpkin through a sieve, boil the cream and set it 
aside to cool ; beat the eggs separately ; cream butter and sugar, 
add the eggs and cream, then pumpkin ; season with nutmeg, 
and grated rind and juice of lemon or extract. Bake in paste 
as long as for custard. 



PUDDING RECIPES. 83 



JELLY PUDDING. 

Four eggs beaten separately, two cupfuls white sugar, one 
cupful butter, one cupful of sweet cream, one cupful of jelly, 
two table-spoonfuls vanilla. Stir the yellows of the eggs and 
the sugar ; cream the butter ; add the cream, then the jelly, and 
last, the whites of the eggs and vanilla. Delicious. — Miss Phebe 
Wood, Maysville, Ky. 

FEATHER PUDDING. 

To be served with sauce. One table-spoonful butter, one cup- 
ful sugar, one egg, one cupful sweet milk, one half tea-spoonful 
soda, one tea-spoonful cream tartar, two cupfuls flour. Flavor 
with nutmeg. — Daisy Lyle. 

GINGER PUDDING. 

To be served with sauce. One cupful of molasses, one cupful of 
boiling water; to which add one table spoonful butter, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one of ginger, or more, if you prefer. Flour 
enough to make a batter that will drop from a spoon. Bake 
quickly in a long pan, or in loaves. — Mrs. Blanton. 

GINGERBREAD PUDDING. 

One pint sour milk, four eggs beaten together, one pint mo- 
lasses, one half pound sugar, three quarters pound butter, six 
tea-spoonfuls of soda ; dissolve the soda in a little hot water, add 
spice to the taste. Stir in flour until as thick as for pound 
cake ; serve with rich sauce. — Mrs. J. A. Howsrton. 

GINGER PUDDING. 

Three eggs, one half pint molasses, one cupful sugar, one 
cupful lard, two table-spoonfuls of ginger, one half tea-spoonful 
8oda, or one tea-spoonful of baking powder ; make into a thick 
batter ; put in a pan and set in. a steamer over a pot of boiling 
water ; when done, set in the oven to dry ofi". Serve with but- 
ter sauce. — Mrs. Geo. Dams. 



84 PUDDING EECIPES. 



GINGER PUDDING. 

Six ounces of flour, six ounces of sugar, six eggs, eight ounces 
preserved ginger, one pint milk, six ounces butter; put tlie 
milk, sugar and butter into a stew-pan, on the stove, and as soon 
as it begins to simmer, take off; put in the flour and stir the 
whole quickly, for about three minutes ; add the eggs gradually. 
The ginger should bo cut into very small pieces ; grease the 
mould well, and pour in the batter ; steam it about one hour. 
Serve hot, with a custard sauce, seasoned with the syrup oi 
ginger. This pudding can be made of pine-apple, chopped very 
fine. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

One half tea-cupful sago ; pour enough boiling water on to 
cover it, and let it stand fifteen minutes, then add one pint of 
milk, one tea-cupful sliced apples (good cooking apples) ; simmer 
the apples in a little water till tender ; one egg, sugar to the 
taste. Bake ; serve with sauce. — Mrs. Barnes, Hot Springs, Ark 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Five table-spoonfuls of tapioca ; soak over night in one quart 
new milk, in the morning bring to a boil, then add one tumbler- 
ful of rich cream, one half tumblerful of wine, four eggs beaten 
separately, sugar and flavor to taste ; bake fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. When cold serve with cream. — Mrs. Wadi. Fithian. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Get the tapioca in lumps, put it in to soak over night; then 
take one tea-cupful to a pint of new milk, sweeten and season 
to the taste; one quarter of a pound of butter, four e^fs well 
beaten (separately). Bake a half hour. — Mrs. Ford. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak a cupful of tapioca (after washing it through several 
waters) in warm water three or four hours ; then pour over three 
pintR of sweet milk, yellows of six eggs well beaten with one 



PUDDING RECIPES. 85 



and one half cupfuls of sugar, one half tea-spoonful of salt, one 
half tea-spoonful of nutmeg; place ingredients in a pan and set 
it in another pan of boilhig water on the stove, and let it cook as 
thick as custard ; then put it in the stove with something under 
it, to keep from scorching at the bottom ; let remain until it dries 
on top ; in the meanwhile, have a meringue made of the six 
whites and flavored to taste, pour on top and smooth over 
nicely. Brown slightly. — Mrs. Batterton. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cupful of tapioca in a cupful of milk ; set it near the fire 
to swell ; stir often ; add a cupful of cold milk, five eggs, two 
cupfuls of sugar, a little salt, one cupful of raisins ; spice 
delicately. — Miss Sawes. 

SPONGE CAKE ROLL. 

Four eggs, beaten separately, one tea-cupful of sugar, one 
tea-cupful flour, one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, mixed in 
flour; one half tea-spoonful of soda, in a little water. Bake 
quickly in biscuit pan, turn out on damp towel, put in dressing 
and roll whUe warm. 

DRESSING FOR SPONGE CAKE ROLL. 

Take the pulp of three lemons and the rind of one, either 
grated or chopped very fine ; two table-spoonfuls of butter, six 
eggs beaten separately, sugar to tlie taste, three fourths of a 
tea-cupful of cold water ; put on the fire and stir constantly, 
until thick ; do not let it boil ; let it get cold, and use in place 
of jelly. — Mrs. Buckner Woodford. 

LEMON SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. 

One pint of white sugar, one quarter of a pound of buttei, 
throe lemons, four wine-glassfuls of water, yelks of four eggs ; 
cook down thick, and pour over sponge cake sliced in a pan ; 
beat the whites with two table-spoonfuls of white sugar to each 
white, and put it over the top of pudding ; let it remain in the 



PUDDING RECIPES. 



stove just long enough to become a light brown. — Mrs. Matt. 
Turney. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Cut a sponge cake into four slices, across; peel several 
oranges and cut them in slices, spread the bottom layer of cake 
with the oranges, cover with sugar, and so on, until you use all 
the layers ; make a meringue, smooth over the whole, and set 
in the oven to brown ; serve with sauce. — Mrs. Blanton. 

SCOTCH PUDDING. 

Five eggs, twelve sponge cakes grated, one tea-cupful of 
currants, one of raisins, one of sugar, one tea-spoonful of ground 
cinnamon, one table-spoonful of butter, three of marmalade, one 
tea-cupful of cream ; serve with or without sauce. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS OR MILK. 

Soak a tea-cupful of tapioca in one and one half pints of 
vater over night. Pare and punch out the cores of ten apples, 
?.nd fill the holes with white sugar. Grate lemon peel over 
the whole and pour one large coffee-cupful of boiling water over 
the apples. Then pour on the tapioca, having first thinned it to 
the consistency of custard, with boiling water. Bake one hour 
and serve with sugar and cream, or a butter and wine sauce. — 
Mrs. Charlton Alexander. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cupfulsugar, one table-spoonful butter, two . eggs, ono 
cupful sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, or enough to make a 
tolerably stiff batter, one half tea-spoonful of soda, one of cream 
tartar, one of salt. Rub the butter and sugar together, add 
the two yelks of eggs, then the milk and soda, then salt, and add 
the two whites alternately with the flour ; bake in a mould. 
Serve with sauce. 



PUBDmCt RECIPES. 87 



WOODFORD PUDDING. 

Three eggs, one tea-cupful of sugar, one half tea-cupful of 
butter, one half tea-cupful of flour, one tea-cupful of jam or 
preserves, one tea-spoonful of soda dissolved iu three tea- spoon- 
fuls of sour milk. Cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Mix all 
well together and bake slowly in a pudding pan. Serve with 
sauce. — Mrs. Amos Turney, Jr. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 
One pint of milk, two ounces of butter, five eggs, ten table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Bake in buttered cups. Serve with rich 
sauce. — Mrs. Amos Turney, Jr. 

PLAIN PUDDING. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one half pint of flour beaten in- 
to the yelks, alternately with the whites ; one quart of new 
milk, a small quantity of soda. — Mrs. J. A. Howerton. 

CAKE PUDDING. 

Spread sponge cake, cut in slices, with preserves or jelly. 
Take whites of six eggs beaten stiff with sugar, pour over cake ; 
set in stove to get thoroughly warm. — Miss Howes. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE PUDDING. 

Heat three pints of milk to near the boiling point, stir into it 
the yelks of eight eggs, one large spoonful of corn starch, let it 
thicken a little, then sweeten and flavor to taste. Lay slices of 
sponge cake in a pudding dish, pour over them this custard ; let 
it bake, then havean icing made of the eight whites well beaten, 
and four table-spoonfuls of sugar; spread over the pudding when 
done, and brown slightly. — M-iss Halleek. 

POUND CAKE PUDDING. 

One pound of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of butter, seven eggs 
(leave out five yelks), three and one half cupfuls of flour, one 
half cupful of sweet cream, one tea-spoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream tartar. — Mrs. Geo. Davis. 



88 PUDDING RECIPES. 



CAKE PUDDING. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, two cupfuls of 
sugar, five eggs, three and one half cupfuls of flour, one heaping 
tea-spoouful of baking powder ; flavor to the taste. — Mn. Geo. 
Dams. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, one half cupful of 
Bour cream or buttermilk, three eggs, one half tea-spoonful of 
soda, one tea-spoonful cream of tartar, a piece of butter the size 
of a large hen egg. Bake quickly; serve with sauce. — Mn. 
Crawford. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Weigh one pound of mashed potatoes, one half pound of butter, 
six eggs, one tea-cupful of cream, one half pound of sugar; 
spice and wine to taste. Serve with sauce. — Miss Hawes. 

JELLY ROLLS. 

Three eggs weU beaten, one cupful of sugar, one and a half 
cupfuls of flour, two table-spoonfuls of sweet milk, half tea-spoon- 
ful soda, one tea-spoonful cream of tartar ; spread with jelly and 
/oil. 

BISCUIT PUDDING. 

Twelve ounces of crumbled sponge cake, one pint of cream, 
twelve eggs, the rind of a lemon rubbed on sugar, four ounces of 
pounded sugar ; pour the cream boiling on the crumbled cake, 
and let it steep for a few minutes ; then add the sugar, the eggs 
and lemon ; mix the whole together, pour the preparation into a 
mould spread with butter, and steam the pudding about one 
hour ; when done, dish up and pour custard sauce over it. 

JAM CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, four cupfuls of flour, one and a half 
cupfuls of butter, one half cupful of buttermilk) two cupfuls of 
jam, six eggs, one tea-spoonful soda, one table-spoonful black 
pepper, one nutmeg grated, one ounce allspice, one ounce of 
cinnamon ; seive hot, with sauce. — Mrs. Jonathan Owen-, 



rtTDDlNG KECrPIS. 89 



PRUNE MERINGUE. 

Put the pruues on in clear water and boil until soft, then 
take them out, and while warm, pour enough Madeira wine 
over (sweeten wine a little) to make a little syrup, as much as 
you wish ; froth the whites of seven eggs, in which put as much 
sugar as for icing ; put the prunes in a baking dish, smooth 
icing over them, and set in a moderate oven to brown slightly. 
—Mrs. Taylor. 

APPLE CAKE MERINGUE. 

Bake cake as for jelly cake, and have ready, apples strained 
through a colander, sweetened and seasoned to taste; make 
several layers, having the layer of apples quite thick ; cover the 
whole with a meringue of the whites of three eggs beaten stiflf, 
one cupful of sugar, and the juice of one lemon. — Miss Spears. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Boil six or eight large apples till thoroughly done, strain 
through a colander ; sugar and nutmeg, or cinnamon to taste ; 
place the apples in a dish, and cover with the whites of three 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, into which has been stirred one cup- 
ful of sugar and the juice of one lemon. Bake a light brown. 
Serve cold, with or without sauce. — Miss K. Spears. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

Beat eight eggs separately very light, add gradually to the 
yelks three quarters of a pound of sugar, lemon to the taste ; stir 
in the whites lightly and bake quickly. Serve immediately, or 
it falls. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Three pounds of acid apples, pared and quartered ; two lem- 
ons sliced with peeling on, two pounds of sugar ; cover well witli 
water, and boil until the apples look clear ; lift them out to cool ; 
add one ounce of dissolved gelatine to the syrup, when it boils ; 
take out and strain over the applej, and put in a cool place. 
Eaten with rich cream, whipped. — Mrs. Blanton. 



90 PUDDING KECIPE3. 



APPLE CREAM. 

Boil twelve apples till soft, take off the peel aud press through 
a sieve ; add one half pound of sugar, whites of two eggs whipped. 
Beat together thoroughly, until it is very stiff and looks white. 
Heap up in a glass dish. 

APPLE DESSERT. 

Pare and core twelve apples, put in the preserving kettle, 
filling apples with sugar ; cover with one and one half table- 
spoonfuls tapioca, soaked over night in one quart of water ; 
juice and rind of one lemon ; cook till jellied. Eat with cream. 

CODDLED APPLES. 

Make a syrup of white sugar and water ; throw in some 
stick cinnamon. Have the apples pared and the cores punched 
out. When the syrup boils, put in the fruit and let boQ till 
tender. Nice dish for tea, to eat with cake. — Miss Short. 

PEARS IN SYRUP. 
Pare and punch out the cores of firm, ripe pears. To two 
pounds of fruit, allow one pound of white sugar, add enough 
water to the sugar and boil, to form a syrup ; then put in the 
pears and boil till tender. Seal in jars, allowing an abundance 
of syrup, as the fruit absorbs it. — Miss Short. 

BLACKBERRY FLUMMERY. 

Four pints blackberry juice, three pints brown sugar, one 
pint rice flour mixed with one pint of cold water, stirred in — as 
thickened milk ; season with ground cinnamon. When done it 
will be the consistency of jelly. 

GOOD FRIDAY. 

One half pound of chocolate, yelks of three eggs, one pint of 
cream or milk thickened with one table-spoonful of corn starch; 
boil up like a custard, then pour in a glass dish, and when cold 
beat the whites of the eggs with one half pound of sugar and 
put on the top. Serve cold. — Mrs. W. Payne. 



PUDDING EECTPES. 91 



VIRGINIA PUDDING. 

Five eggs, reserving three whites for sauce ; one pint of milk, 
one gill of cream or an ounce of butter, three table-spoonfuls 
of flour, a little salt ; bake one half hour. Sauce — Beat the 
three whites to a froth with one half pound of sugar ; flavor 
with wine or lemon. This is to be poured on the pud. ling just 
before serving. Serve cold. — Mrs. Walter Payne. 

FRENCH PUDDING. 

One quart of sweet milk, ten heaping table-spoonfuls of flour, 
eight eggs, beaten separately and very light ; add the milk and 
flour gradually ; bake in a quick oven. Serve with transparent 
sauce. — Mrs. George Davis. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

One half pint bread crumbs, one pound raisins, three pints of 
boiled milk, six eggs ; pour the milk on the bread, adding one 
table-spoonful of ground cinnamon, one of mace, three of sugar, 
wine-glassful of wine or whisky, cream one half tea-cupful of but- 
ter with one tea-cupful of sugar. Serve with wine ; grate nut- 
meg on top. — Miss Nannie Abbott. 

VERY NICE PUDDING. 

The yellows of eight eggs, eight large spoonfuls of flour, one 
and one half pints milk ; beat and mix the yelks, flour and milk 
together; have the whites beaten to a stifi" froth, and add the 
last thing. Bake rather quickly. — Miss HaUeck. 
OXFORD PUDDING. 

One half pint bread crumbs, one pint milk, six eggs, two 
ounces butter, one half pint cream, one fourth pound currants 
or raisins, sugar and nutmeg to taste ; pour milk hot over the 
bread, add the butter, and when cold add the eggs, stirring the 
whites in gently, last. Serve with or without sauce. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Blake a light batter of three eggs, one cup of sour cream, a 
little soda and salt, flour to thicken ; take a half dozen ripe 



92 PUDDING EECIPEB. 



apples, pare and chop fine, stir them in the batter, also a heap* 
ing table-spoonful of sugar. Have a frying-pan of hot lard, drop 
the mixture by spoonfuls; fry light brown. Sprinkle with 
white sugar as they are taken up. — A/iss F. Short. 

DELICIOUS FRITTERS. 

Take one quart of watet and a piece of butter the size of a 
hen egg, boil a few minutes ; then stir in enough flour to make 
as thick as mashed potatoes ; pour this into a bowl and beat six 
eggs in it, one at a time ; add a little salt and nutmeg ; then fry 
in hot lard. 

FRITTERS. 

One quart of flour, one quart of buttermilk, two eggs and one 
half tea-spoonful of soda ; beat the eggs separately. Sift the flour 
and pour in the yelks of the eggs with the milk and a pinch of 
salt ; beat well and add the whites of the eggs last, and fry 
immediately in boiling lard tiU a light brown. 

Apple fritters can be made by the above directions, with the 
%ddition of ripe apples, chopped fine. — Kate Desha. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One pint of boiling water, melt in it one half pound of lard, 
and stir while boiling into this three quarters of a pound of flour ; 
boil until a thick paste is formed ; set the kettle in which you 
have the ingredients into a vessel of boiling water ; when 
thick, take from the fire — when cool, add ten eggs and a little 
salt ; mix all well, drop with a spoon on buttered tins, some 
distance apart, and bake quickly. To be eaten with syrup.— 
Mrs. J. A. Hovxrton. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one half pound 
beef suet, one half pound of butter, one half pound of stale 
bread grated, one half pound of flour, eight eggs, one pound 
brown sugar, three quarters of a pound of chopped apples, one 
glass Bourbon, one pint milk, one pint wine, two nutmegs 
grated, one table-spoonful mace, one of cinnamon, a pinch of 



PUDDING EECIPES. 93 



salt; CI earn, butter and sugar together ; beat eggs very light, 
separately; add half milk to the whites, stirring in flour and 
grated bread ; add creamed sugar and butter, then suet and 
fruit alternately, then spice and liquor, then the balance of the 
milk, and stir the whole \yell together; if not stiff enough, add 
floui or bread ; boil six hours. — Mrs. Judge Elnkead, Fayette. 

ECONOMICAL PLUM PUDDING. 

Two pints of flour, two tea-cupfuls of raisins,- two of suet 
chopped fine, three of buttermilk, two of molasses, two tea- 
spoonfuls of soda (this pudding can be improved by the addi- 
tion of more fruit) ; boil or steam four hours. Serve with sauce. 
— Mrs. Ann Ryland, Lexington. 

RAISIN PUDDING. 

One pound raisins, one pound sugar, one half pound butter, 
one pound flour, seven eggs beaten separately, one pint milk or 
cream, one wine-glassful wine or brandy ; flour the mould or 
bag and butter it well ; boil three or four hours. Serve with 
rich sauce. — Mrs. H. Buchner. 

RICE PLUM PUDDING. 

Three gills of rice, one quarter pound butter, one quarter 
pound sugar, one quart of milk, one tea-spoonful salt, six eggs, 
one and a half pounds raisins or currants, one half table-spoonful 
cinnamon, a little rose water, one grated nutmeg ; boil the rice 
with lemon peel in the milk, till soft ; mix butter, sugar and eggs ; 
dredge the fruit with flour and put in with the cinnamon, last; 
bake one hour and a half. — Miss E. Mitchell. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one cupful of sugar, one halt 
cupful of butter, one cupful of sour cream, one cupful of sweet 
cream, one tea-spoonful of soda ; flour enough to make a batter 
as stiff as for pound cake ; tea-spoonful essence of lemon. — Sallii 
Brooks. 



94 PUBDraG EECIPES. 



THE QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint bread crumbs ; add one quart of sweet milk, one cup 
sugar, yelks of four eggs, the rind of a fresh lemon, grated fine, 
a piece of butter the size of a hen egg ; bake till done. Beat 
the four whites to a stiff froth, adding one tea-cupful sugar; stir 
in the juice of one lemon. When the pudding is baked, spread 
u luyer of acid jelly over, then the meringue ; set in the oven to 
brown slightly. Serve with cold cream. — Mrs. Chambers Brent. 

THICKENED MELK PUDDING. 

One quart milk ; when it boils stir in enough flour to thicken 
it, like mush ; add a piece of butter the size of a hen egg ; when 
cold, add five eggs well beaten. Season to taste ; serve with 
sauce. — Mrs. Buckner. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

One pint rich buttermilk or sour cream, one tea-spoonful soda 
two eggs beaten separately, two table-spoonfuls sugar and a 
little salt; stir in flour until as thick as batter for cakes. Greast 
a small baking pan and pour in half the batter, spread some 
fruit over it, either canned cherries or thinly sliced apples are 
nice, then add the remainder of batter. B.ike in a moderate 
oven ; serve hot, with rich sauce. — Miss Hallack. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING. 

Six eggs, three table-spoonfuls flour, one pint milk, a pinch 
of salt; beat the yellows well and add flour, then the milk, the 
whites last. Serve with sauce. — Miss H . 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

One quart of sweet milk, three table-spoonfuls corn starch, 
five eggs, five table-spoonfuls sugiir beaten with the yolks, 
seven table-spoonfuls with the whites. Mix the milk, corn 
Btareh and yelks, with the five spoonfuls of sugar, for iha 
custard; then put to boil. While boiling beat the whites to 
a froth and mix with seven spoonfuls sugar, pour on the boil- 
ing custard, stirring all the time. Pour into a bowl, flavor, 
and set in the stove to brown slightly. — Mis. John Morgan. ' 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINQS EECIPE8. 95 



SAUCBS FOR PUOOINGS. 



1 



WHITE SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

Whites of two unbeaten eggs and one cupful of white sugar 
beaten together; add one tea-spoonful of vinegar; beat well; 
then add three table-spoonfuls of wine, and just as it goes 
to the table, add two thirds of a cup of sweet cream or milk. — 
Mrs. Waiter Payne. 

SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

One coffee-cupful sugar, one of butter, beat well together ; 
break an egg in and mix well ; put on the stove ; stir till melted; 
add table-spoonful wine; pour up immediately. — Mrs. Jvdge 
Kmkead, Lexington, Ky. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, one of wine. Set the 
cup in boiling water for one hour. — Mks Spears. 

COLD SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. 

Four ounces butter, six ounces sugar, the white of one egg, a 
wine-glassful of wine. Beat the butter and sugar until very 
white; beat the egg and add it, then the wine slowly; season 
with fresh lemon or orange. — Mrs. Simms. 

SAUCE. 

One wine-glassful of thick paste made with corn starch ; let 
it cool; a cupful of butter and one of sugar; cream together till 
soft. Put in with sugar and butter the yelk of one egg and 
mix well ; then add the paste and the white of the egg, beaten 
light; flavor to taste. — Mrs. E. Lyle. 



96 CAKE EECIPE8. 



Cii-KB. 



CAKES. 

Use well balanced scales, as in cake-making mucli depends on 
the accuracy of the weights. If fruit is to be used, prepare it 
the previous day ; sift the flour well, and use sweet butter, which 
should be well washed in cold water, to extract the salt ; should 
cream of tartar or soda be used, sift carefully with the flour ; 
beat the yelks of eggs and sugar first, and then the whites, until 
they adhere to a knife blade or whisk; in cakes where butter is 
used the whites must be added last ; in sponge cake the flour 
should be beaten in last, adding but little at a time and beaten 
in on top, and not from the bottom. Never allow the heat to 
diminish while the cake is baking, or it will fall ; when the 
cake is done, it will leave the sides of the pan, or it may be 
pierced with a broom straw near the center, and if no batter 
adheres, it is done. Sponge cake requires a quick oven. Pound 
cake a moderate heat. Fruit cake should be baked more slowly 
stiU. Molasses cake is easily scorched. 

In baking cakes it is a good plan to fill a large pan with cold 
water and set it on the upper grate of the stove, to prevent 
them from burning or cooking too fast on top. Let it remain 
untU the cakes are baked. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

One and a quarter pounds of sugar, the whites of twenty eggs, 
ten ounces of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, juice 



CAKE RECIPES. 97 



of one lemon ; beat whites until light ; add sugar ; beat well ; 
add lemon juice ; mix cream of tartar with the flour and stir in 
the flour lightly ; bake about an hour. — 3Irs. Dr. Justice, 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Whites of twenty eggs, two goblets of flour, three of sugar, 
two tea-spoonfuls of lemon, one of cream of tartar ; barely stir 
flour in ; bake quickly. This is the premium cake at the Bour- 
bon fair. — Mrs. Dr. L. D. Barnes. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Ten eggs (whites only), one and a half tumblers of sugar, one 
tumbler (heaping) of flour, one tea-spoonful cream of tartar, one 
tea-spoonful essence of lemon. — Mrs. Wash. FiOiian. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Two eggs beaten separately, one cup (heaping) of flour, one 
cup of sugar, three fourths of a cup of sweet cream, one lea- 
spoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar ; beat hard for some 
time ; add whites the last thing. 

ICING FOR CAKE. 

Whites of three eggs well frothed, one pound of sugar wet 
with water, and boiled until almost candy. While boiling, pour 
it over beaten whites ; flavor with lemon. — Mrs. Mary Duncan. 

YELLOW SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound pulverized sugar, half a pound of flour, twelve 
eggs, the juice and grated rind of one lemon ; use only four 
yelks; beat them until very light; then add the sugar and juice 
and rind of lemon ; beat this well, until it is bleached ; beat the 
twelve %vhites to a stiff froth, and add them very gently to the 
yelks and sugar. At the last, sift the flour very lightly into 
the mixture. — Mrs. J. P., Lexington. 



98 CAKE EECIPES. 



YELLOW SPONGE CAKE. 

Three fourths of a pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, ton 
eggs (leaving out six yellows), the juice of one lemon. Put the 
flour in last. Beat the lemon juice into the yelks. — Mrs. Brutus 
J. Clay. 

YELLOW SPONGE CAKE. 

Use ten eggs, leaving out four yellows, and beating about half 
a tea-spoonful of tartaric acid into them. Add two tea-cupfuls of 
sugar, two tea-cupfuls of flour, and the whites of the eggs ; put 
in alternately with the flour. — Mrs. Willmm E. Simms. 

SAVOY BISCUIT. 

Beat four eggs separately, then put them together and beat 
them again ; add a half pound of fine loaf sugar ; season with 
lemon. Lastly, quarter of a pound of flour stirred in slowly. 
Stir it all hard, and drop it on sheets of greased white paper. 
Put the cakes far enough apart not to run into each other ; 
sprinkle loaf sugar over the top ; bake quickly and roll them up 
while hot. They should be but lightly colored. — Mrs. J. H. 
Brent. 

WATER MELON CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three and one 
half cupfuls of flour, one cupful sour cream, one tea-spoonful of 
soda. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add flour, soda and 
sour cream ; lastly, the whites of eight eggs well beaten, and two 
drops of bitter almond. 

Measure out another portion as above, using the pink (or 
strawberry sugar) instead of the white, and the yelks of the 
eggs. Add raisins to the pink batter, to simulate seed ; pour 
boiling water over the raisins and let them stand to swell ; dust 
them with flour and mix in just before baking ; arrange the two 
colors in the cake-mould to suit fancy. 

POUND CAKE. 

Sixteen whites of egg, , one pound white sugar, three quarters 
of pound butter, one pound flour. Cream butter ; then mix the 
sugar and put in flour and eggs alternately. Bake two hours. 



CAKE EECIPES. 99 



QUEENS CAKE. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one pound currants, one 
half pound butter, five eggs, one nutmeg grated, one gill each 
of brandy and milk, one glassful of wine. — Mrs. Deigman. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One cupful butter, two of sugar, one and one half of pearl 
etarch, two cups of flour, one of sour cream, whites of eight 
eggs, one tea-spoonful soda; dissolve the soda in a little whisky. 
— Mrs. Edwards. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, three quarters pound flour, one half 
pound butter, twelve eggs; cream the butter well ; work the 
flour into it, then the sugar, and whites alternately. — Mrs. Brent. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One cupful butter, three of sugar, three heaping cupfuls 
flour, whites of ten eggs, one tea-spoonful soda ; dissolve in one 
cupful sweet cream, two tea-spoonfuls cream of tartar ; flavor to 
the taste. Bake quickly. — Mrs. Will Taylor. 

CHARLOTTE POLONAISE. 

Bea,t yelks of six eggs with two large spoonfuls of com starch ; 
add one and one half pints cream ; boil slowly (stirring all the 
time, to prevent it from becoming lumpy) until it is thick, and 
perfectly smooth. Then divide the mixture, and to one half 
add from four to six ounces of chocolate, according to taste ; 
sweeten agreeably ; break up one quarter pound of macaroons 
into it ; give it a " boil up "' and set aside to cool. Have ready 
for the other half of cream mixture about one dozen bitter al- 
monds and one quarter pound sweet almonds, blanched and 
pounded to a smooth paste with one quarter pound pounded 
citron ; stir in about one quarter pound sugar ; let it come to a 
boil; set aside to cool. 

Bake a sponge cake in jelly cake-moulds, and spread one cake 
with the chocolate mixture and another with the almond, pil- 



100 CAKE RECIPES. 



ing them up ; tliea cover the whole with a meringue, and set 
in the stove to harden and brown very slighily. — Miss Lucy 
Graddy 

WHITE CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three quarters pound 
of butter, the whites of fifteen eggs in summer (sixteen in win- 
ter), two thirds of tea-spoonful of soda, one tea-spoonful of 
cream of tartar. 

Sow to Mix It. — First, beat half of the whites to a stiff froth; 
add the sugar ; cream the butter thoroughly, and mix in the 
flour ; put the soda and cream of tartar both in the flour ; sift 
two or three times, then put all together, and beat well ; have 
the other half of the whites well frothed, and add, the last 
thing. — Miss Lutie J. Smedley. 

AMBROSIA CAKE. 

Having made white cake, take for the filling one cup of but- 
ter, one cup of sugar, juice of three lemons. Cook until the 
consistency of honey ; spread between the cake as for jelly cake. 
— Mrs. J. A. Howerton. 

MRS. CLAY'S PREMIUM CAKE. 

Fourteen eggs — whites only, one pound of sugar, three fourths, 
of a pound of flour, a half pound of butter; whisky and lemon 
to taste. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Nine eggs — whites only, three tea-cupfuls of flour, two tea- 
cupfuls of sugar, three fourths of a tea-cupful of butter, half a 
tea-cupful of cream, half a tea-spoonful of soda, one and a half 
tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar. — Mrs. Jonathan Owen. 

BEAUTIFUL WHITE CAKE. 

Five pints of flour, three and a half pints of sugar, whites of 
twenty-four eggs, a heaping pint of butter, three table-spoonfuls 
of whisky. Bake quickly. — Mrs. Alice Garrett, 



CAKE EECrPES. 101 



WHITE CUP CAKE. 

Ten eggs, four cups of flour, three of stigar, one of butter, 
one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, half of soda, stirred in dry 
flour, haif tea-cupful of morning's milk. — Mrs. N. B. Rion, Jr. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of twenty-four eggs, two cupfuls of butter, four cup- 
fuls of sugar, six cupfuls of flour, one tea-spoonful of soda, two 
of cream of tartar ; cream the butter and sugar together ; beat 
the whites to a stiff froth ; add the flour alternately with the 
whites ; dissolve the soda in a little sour cream, and mix the 
cream of tartar in the flour. — Mrs. J. A. Sovierton. 

WHJTE CAKE. 

Whites of thirteen eggs, five tumblers of flour, two and a half 
of sugar, one of butter, one of sour cream, one tea-spoonful of 
soda. — Mrs. Charles Daugherty. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, three fourths of a 
cup of butter, one of sour cream, four of flour, two tea-spoonfuls 
jf baking powder. — Mrs. J. Z. Croxton. 

A NICE FLAVORING FOR CAKE. 

One tea-spoonful of lemon acid (pulverized) and one table- 
spoonful of brandy, mixed. — Mrs. Cunningham. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of seventeen eggs, three quarters of a pound of butter 
(light weight), one pound of sugar; beat butter and sugar together 
till very smooth andlight ; one pound of flour (light weight), one 
luvcl tea-spoonful of soda, two tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar. 
When the cake is all mixed, sift in the soda and cream of tartar; 
mix the flour and eggs in alternately. — Mrs. W. W. Fislier. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One half pound butter, one pound sugar, three quarters of a 
pound flour (good weight), whites of fourteen eggs ; one half 
tea-spoonful soda, one tea- spoonful cream tartar. — Mrs. Eobemi 
Stoner. 



102 CAKE EECIPES. 



WHITE CAKE. 

One pound flour,*one pound sugar, ■whites of fourteen or fif- 
teen eggs, five eighths pound butter, one tea-spoonful baking 
powder put in flour. This cake will fill a two-pound mould if 
properly baked. 

A nice fruit cake can be made of this by the addition of one 
half pound of raisins. — Mrs. Georgie Keller. 

TIP-TOP CAKE. 

Two eggs, one and one half cupfuls sugar, one tea-spoonful 
soda dissolved in a cupful sweet milk, two and one half cupfulg 
flour, two tea-spoonfuls cream of tartar, two table spoonfuls 
melted butter. — Tinnie. 

RICH FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one fourth pound butter, 
thirteen eggs, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one of 
citron, wine-glassful brandy, two of wine, one nutmeg, tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon ; flour fruit well. Beat the eggs, into 
which stir all the ingredients ; bake three hours. — Mrs. James 
Sughes. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of sifted flour, three fourths pound of butter, one 
pound of white powdered sugar, one dozen eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately, one pound of raisins, one half pound candied citron, 
one half pound almonds iu the hull, one fourth pound figs, 
one fourth pound cream nuts, one wine-glassful of brandy, one 
ounce pulverized cinnamon, one fourth of cloves, allspice, 
mace and nutmeg. Cut the fruit, not too fine, adding the 
whites of eggs last. Bake in a slow oven. — Mrs. G. Sarrkon. 

TWO-POUND CAKE BY MEASURE. 

The whites of twenty-four eggs, seven tea-cupfuls of flour, four 
and one half of granulated sugar, two tea-cupfuls of butter, one 
of sweet milk, a heaping tea-spoonful of cream of tartar. Have 
the pan warm and bake as quickly as possible. — Mrs. Dr. Justice. 



CAKE EECrPES. 103 



COCOANUT CAKE. 

Three cupfuls white sugar, one cupful butter, the whites of 
six eggs, five cupfuls of sifted flour, one cupful of milk, oue 
cocoanut grated fine, one half tea-spoonful soda, two tea-spoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar mixed in the flour. Flavor with wiuo or 
brandy. — Mrs. Biegman. 

SPRINGFIELD CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, four cupfuls of 
flour, three eggs, one wine-glassful of wine, one of milk, one tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, one half of soda. — Mrs. JSlanton. 

ECONOMICAL CAKE. 

One large cupful sugar, one half cupful butter, one cupful 
sour cream or milk, three and one half cupfuls of flour, one tea- 
spoonful soda, two of cream of tartar. — Miss Halkck. 

TEN MINUTE CAKE. 

Two eggs, two tea-cupfuls sugar, two thirds of a cupful but- 
ter, one tea-spoonful soda, one of cream of tartar in one cupful 
sweet milk, and flour enough for batter. 

GINGER SPONGE CAKE. 
Half pint of molasses, one cupful butter, one cupful of sour 
cream, one table-spoonful of ginger, one tea-spoonful of soda, 
three eggs, five cupfuls of flour, one tea-spoonful cinnamon. — 
Miss Mary Redmon. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 
Two eggs, one tea-cupful sugar, one tea-cupful molasses, one 
tea-cupful buttermilk, one half tea-cupful butter, four tea-cup- 
fuJs flour, one tea-spoonful soda, one table-spoonful ginger. — 
Mrs. WiU Taylor. 

EXTRA GINGER CAKE. 
One and one half pints molasses, five table-spoonfuls ginger, 
one nutmeg grated, one and one half tea-spoonfuls of pulverized 
cloves, one and one half of cinnamon, one half tea-spoonful salt. 



104 CAKE EECIPES. 



two tea-spoonfnls soda, one tea-cupful of lard, one and one 
half tea-cupfuls sour cream, six eggs well beaten, flour suffi- 
cient to make a stiff batter. Bake in tin or stove pans. It 
sliould be thoroughly beaten — the more the better; bake in a hot 
oven. — Mrs. Morrow. 

SUPERIOR GINGER LOAF. 
Five tea-cupfuls of flour, one tea-cupful of brown sugar, two 
tea-cupfuls molasses, two tea-cupfuls sour cream, one tea-cupful 
of butter, six eggs, two table-spoonfuls of ginger, two of ciunar 
mon, two tearspoonfuls of mace, one of cloves, one of soda, one 
pound of currants, one pound of raisins. — Mrs. John Ray. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 

Whites of twenty-four eggs, two cupfuls butter, five cupfuls 
sugar, seven cupfuls flour, one tea-spoonful of soda, two of 
cream of tartar, and, if you like, add two pounds citron, half 
cupful of whisky or brandy. If wanted for fruit cake, add two 
pounds each kind of fruit. For flavoring a bride's cake, use the 
grated rind and juice of four large oranges. — Mrs. W. Jones. 

CORN STARCH BRIDE'S CAKE. 

Whites of fourteen eggs, four cupfuls of flour, one cupful of 
starch, three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of sweet cream or milk, a half tea-spoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful cream of tsutar.— Miss Mattie Clay. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three quarters of a 
pound of butter, the whites of eighteen eggs ; flavor with lemon ; 
beat very light. — Mrs. Geo. Davis. 

WHITE CUP CAKE. 

One and a half cupfuls of butter, whites of fifteen eggs, five 
and a half cupfuls of flour, three cupfuls of. sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of buttermilk, half a tea-spoonful of soda ; beat very 
light — -Mrs. Geo. Davis. 



CAKE EECIPES. 105 



STARCH CAKE. 

Three coffee-cupfuls of butter, six of sugar, three of new milk, 
nine of flour, three of corn starch, four tea-spoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, two of soda, and the whites of eighteen eggs. Weight, 
three pounds. — Mrs. James Hughes. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of white sugar, one cupful of butter, three 
fourths of a cupful of milk, four cupfuls of flour, whites of ten 
eggs, one tea-spoonful cream of tartar, a half tea-spoonful of 
soda ; mix butter and sugar, then eggs and flour alternately, 
then add milk ; beat well ; mix cream of tartar and soda with 
flour. Bake in shallow tin pans. 

ICING FOR MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Whites of three eggs ; stir in sugar enough to make it stifi"; 
put in a little tartaric acid to dry the icing ; flavor both icing 
and cake with Burnett's extract lemon. Spread icing between 
the cakes. — Mrs. Dr. R. M. Adair. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Two thirds of a cupful of butter, whites of nine eggs, two cup- 
fuls of white sugar, four cupfuls of flour, half a cupful of milk, 
one tea-spoonful of baking powder. Divide in four parts and 
bake in jelly cake pans. For the Idng — One pound of pulver- 
ized sugar, whites of four eggs. Dissolve one tea-spoonful of 
citric acid in two dessert-spoonfuls of alcohol, and add, after 
the icing is well beaten. Put in a little indigo, and flavor with 
lemon. Let the cakes cool before icing. 

CHOCOLATE <5AKE. 

One cupful of corn starch, two cupfuls of flour, one cupful of 
butter, two cupfuls of sugar, whites of seven eggs, nearly one 
cupful of rich cream, one tea-spoonful cream of tartar, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda. The Icing — ^Beat the whites of four eggs ; 
boil one pound of sugar until it sinks in water ; then pour slowly 
over the egg ; beat all the while until nearly cold. Melt the 
chocolate in some of the egg and put in according to the taste. — 
Mrs. Taylor. 



106 CAKE EECIPEB. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls sugar, one cupful butter, three eggs, three cup- 
fuls flour, three fourths of a cup of milk, half a tea-spoouful of 
soda, one tea-spoonful cream of tartar. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Two ounces chocolate, one cup of sugar, three fourths of a cup 
of sweet milk ; boil till thick ; when cold put between cake. 

A GOOD CUP CAKE. 

Four cupfuls of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one of 
buttermilk, five eggs beaten separately and very light, and one 
tea-spoonful soda. Bake in a quick oven ; when cold, ice it, and 
and cut in squares. 

Idng. — Boil one tea-cupful sugar to a thick syrup, and stir 
into the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stifi" froth ; flavor with 
lemon. — Mrs. Geo. Davis. 

CUP CAKE. 

Six eggs, two tea-cupfuls sugar, one cupful butter, one cup- 
ful sour cream, three cupfuls flour, one half tea-spoonful soda, 
one tea-spoonful cream of tartar. — Mrs. Allen Bashford. 

PUFF CAKE, OR CUP CAKE. 

Six eggs, three cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls sweet milk, one 
cupful butter, five cupfuls flour, two tea-spoonfuls soda, four 
tea-spoonfuls cream tartar, two tea-spoonfuls lemon extract. 

CUP CAKE. 

The whites of eight eggs, four cupfuls flour, two cupfuls 
sugar, one cupful butter, one cupful sweet milk, two teas-poon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, one tea-spoonful soda ; beat butter and 
sugar together, until very light ; then add the flour and milk, 
then the eggs. Sift the soda and cream of tartar with the flour 
two or three times. — Mrs. Mary Bay. 

SMALL CUP CAKE. 
Two eggs, two cupfuls of flour, one cupful white sugar, one 



CAKE RECIPES. 107 



half cupful butter, one half cupful sweet milk, one tea-spoonful 
cream of tartar, half tea-spoonful soda, one tea-spocuful of 
vanilla. — Mrs. J. 



NUT CAKES. i 

I 

One pound of nut kernels, one pound of sugar, whites of six 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two table-spoonfuls flour. — Miss Fan- 
nie Shropshire. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Take one quarter pound sweet almonds and one ounce of bit- 
ter almonds (or peach kernels), blanch and pound them one at 
a time, pouring on them occasionally a few drops of rose-water. 
Grate almonds on a small nutmeg grater, which is much less 
trouble than pounding them. Use three quarters of a pound of 
butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of flour, the whites of 
seventeen eggs ; mix the butter, sugar and almonds first, then 
add flour and eggs, little at a time. — Mrs. Wash. Fithian. 

ROSETTE CAKES. 

Three eggs beaten lightly, three heaping tea-cupfuls of flour, 
three tea-cupfuls of sweet milk, one half tea-spoonful salt, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg ; let the pan be hot and well 
greased before pouring the batter in, then bake twenty minutes. 
This quantity will make three dozen ; bake in muffin irons. — 
Miss Nannie. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls sugar, three and one quarter 
cupfuls of flour, one scant cupful of milk, five eggs, leaving 
out the whites of three ; grate the rind of two large oranges 
into the cake mixture with a part of the juice. Strain the 
rest of the juice into one pound of sugar ; have the whites ol 
three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. When the cakes are cool, 
spreadicing between, as in mountain cake. — Mrs. Sattie Kenney. 

GOLDEN CAKE. 

One pound of flour dried and sifted, one pound sugar, three 



108 CAKE EECIPES. 



quarters pound butter, yelks of fourteen eggs, the rinds 'of two 
lemoLS grated, also the juice. Beat the sugar and butter to a 
cream, and add the yelks, well beaten and strained; then add 
the lemon peel and flour, and one tea-spoonful ef sal volatile 
dissolved in a little hot water. Beat well, and before putting 
into the oven add lemon juice, beating it in thoroughly. Bake 
in flat pans ; ice it immediately. — Miss Mary Bedmon. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Half pint of molasses, one tea-cupful of brown sugar, half a 
tea-spoonful of soda, a little salt, two table-spoonfuls of ginger, 
one cupful of lard. Warm the molasses, stir soda in it, then 
the sugar ; mix all together, and roll out thin. — Mrs. George 
Davis. 

HARD GINGER CAKE. 

Six pints of flour, one pound of sugar, one pint of molasses, 
one pound of butter, five table-spoonfuls of ground ginger, one 
tea-spoonful of soda in six table-spoonsfuls of buttermilk. Mix 
well together ; roll out thin and bake quickly. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

One and a half pounds of sugar, one and three quarter pounds 
of flour, one pound of butter, six eggs. Koll very thin and 
bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. George Davis. 

JUMBLES. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful sweet 
cream, three eggs, a half tea-spoonful of soda, two of cream of 
tartar, sufficient flour to roll nicely ; season with lemon. — Mrs. 
J. A. Sowerton. 

JUMBLES. 

Two eggs, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, a little nutmeg, 
a half tea-spoonful of soda, half a cupful of butter ; stir in the 
flour until it will roll ; cut in round shapes with a hole in the 
center ; roU them in sugar. — Mrs. George Davis. 

DOUGH NUTS. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, a half pound of 
butter, six eggs ; flavor with rose water and spice. 



CAKE RECIPES. 109 



SUGAR DROP CAKES. 

One pound of sugar, whites of ten eggs, and yelks of seven, 
one pound of flour. Mix the sugar and yelks, then the flour, 
stirring the whites in last ; beat well, and drop thin on buttered 
paper. — Mrs. George Davis. 

CREAM CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three and a half of flour, 
one oupful of cream or rich milk, four eggs, one tea-spoonful of 
cream of tartar, a half tea-spoonful of soda. — Mrs. Hughes, Phil- 
adelphia. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Whites of ten eggs, four cupfuls of flour, three cupfuls sugar 
(light measure), two tea-spoonfuls cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one tea-spoonful extract of lemon. 

CREAM CAKE. 

For' Ch-eam — Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, two table-spoon- 
fuls of corn starch ; beat all together. Boil one pint of milk, 
and season with vanilla bean ; just as the milk boils stir in the 
mixture, stirring all the time, until it thickens ; before it cools 
stir in a table-spoonful of butter. 

For Cake — ^Three eggs and one cupful of sugar beaten 
together, a half tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in a tea-cupful of 
inilk, one tea-spoonful cream of tartar and a little salt sifted 
with the flour, one and a half cupfuls of flour ; put in soda 
last. Bake in a very quick oven, in jelly cake pans, fifteen min- 
utes. This quantity makes three layers of cream and four of 
caie. Two or three table-spoonfuls of cream improves the cake. 

SILVER CAKE. 

One half pound of butter well creamed, one pound of sugar, 
the whites of fourteen eggs, three quarters of a pound of flour, 
one half tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, and one half tea-spoon- 
ful of soda. Beat the eggs to a stifi" froth, mix the butter, 
sugar and eggs ; sift carefully the cream of tartar and soda into 
the flour, which should be beaten in very lightly at the last.— 
Mrs. Brutus Clay. 



110 CAKE RECIPES. 



SILVER CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs, cream one tea-cupful of butter, two of 
sugar, one of sweet milk with one half tea-spoonful of soda, 
one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, two full cups of flour. Bake 
quickly. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of flour, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of 
butter, one half cupful sour cream, four eggs and one tea-spoon- 
ful of soda. Beat the sugar and butter together, and break the 
eggs into it one at a time ; then add the flour, then the sour 
cream with the soda. 

For the Chocolate. — Use one quarter of a cake of chocolate, 
one cupful of milk, one cupful molasses, one cupful of water, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, flavor with vanilla, and boil 
down until quite thick. — Miss L. Williams, Lex. 

SNOW BALL CAKE. 
One tea-cupful white sugar, one half tea-cupful butter, one 
half tea-cupful sweet milk, two cupfuls flour. Whites of three 
eggs beptea to a stiff froth, one half tea-spoonful soda, one tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, sifted with the flour. Beat butter and 
sugar thoroughly together, add the eggs, then the flour, then 
the milk and soda. — Mrs. J. M. Jones. 

PORTUGAL CAKE. 
One pound of sugar, one pound of dried and sifted flour, a 
half pound of butter, whites of sixteen eggs, two table-spoonfula 
of rose water, one pound of raisins, three tearspoonfuls of the 
extract of nutmeg, one and a half pounds almonds (weighed 
before shelling), blanch and grate them, or pound in a mortar. 
EoU the almonds in part of the flour and stir them in just before 
baking. — Mrs. Wornall. • 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cupful of butter, one cupful of brown sugar, 
one cupful of molasses, one cupful of strong cofiee, five cupfuls 



CAKE EECrPES. Ill 



of flour, one cupful raisins, one level tea-spoonful of soda, stirred 
into the molasses ; nutmeg, allspice and cinnamon to the taste. 
Bake slowly. A little whisky improves it. — Mn. Will Taylor. 

SPICED CAKE. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three fourths of a pound 
of butter, six eggs, one table-spoonful powdered cinnamon, one 
of allspice, one of cloves, one wine-glass of brandy. Beat the 
butter and sugar together, add eggs and flour gradually, the 
brandy and spice alternately, and just before putting it into the 
stove dissolve a tea-spoonful of soda in a small tea-cupful of 
sour cream. Beat well before placing in mould. Bake as pound 
cake. — Mrs. Byland. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Whites of seven eggs, three tea-cupfuls sugar, one tea-cupful 
butter, four tea-cupfuls flour, one tea-cupful sour cream, a half 
tea-spoonful of soda. 

SPICED CAKE. 

Yellows of seven eggs, two tea-cupfuls brown sugar, one tea- 
cupful molasses, one tea-cupful butter, five tea-cupfuls flour, one 
tea-cupful sour cream, one tea-spoonful soda ; spices to taste. — 
Mrs. Henry Buckner. 

BLACK AND WHITE MARBLE CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, one half cupful butter, one of white 
sugar, one half of sour cream, two of flour, one tea-spoonful of 
cream of tartar, one half of soda. Yelks of four eggs, tea-cupful 
of brown sugar, one half cupful of molasses, one half of sour 
cream, two of flour, one half tea-spoonful of soda, one of ciima- 
mon, cloves, allspice, one quarter pound citron cut in slices. 
Mix in alternately, or have one half black and the other 
white. — Miss. Iva McCamey. 

NICE TEA CAKES. 
One pound flour, one half pound of butter, one pound sugar, 
three eggs, one half tea-spoonful of soda in a half tea-cupful of 
sour cream or buttermilk, one nutmeg. — Mrs. J. P., Lexington. 



112 



CAKE RECIPES. 



TEA CAKES. 

Three eggs, three tea-cupfuls sugar, one tea-cupful butter or 
lard, one tearcupful of buttermilk, one tea-spoonful soda dissolved 
in the milk, a tea-spoonful of cinnamoa and nutmeg, flour 
enough for a stiff dough. — Mrs. Ryland. 

TEA CAKES. 

Two and three quarter pounds of flour, one pound su^r, 
three quarters of a pound of butter, six eggs, three and one half 
tea-spoonfuls powdered hartshorn. Mix sugar and butter, and 
then beat in the eggs, three at a time. Dissolve hartshorn in 
one half tea-cupful warm water, and mix in with the flour ; roll 
and cut thin. — Mrs. Barclay. 

DELICATE TEA CAKES. 

The whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one cupful 
white sugar, one half cupful sweet milk or cream, one tea-spoon- 
ful cream of tartar, one half tea-spoonful soda, two and one half 
cupfuls flour, a tea-spoonful of pounded or grated almonds, one 
half cupful butter. — Mrs. Turner. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Two and one half pounds of butter, two and one half pounds 
of sugar, two dozen eggs, two pounds flour, two and one half 
pounds of currants, the same quantity of raisins (stoned and 
chopped), one pound of citron, one pound blanched or pounded 
almonds, one table-spoonful of cinnamon, one dessert-spoonful 
of mace, the same of cloves and nutmeg, one tumblerful of wine 
and brandy mixed. Brown the flour, mix with yeast, and luke- 
warm milk ; let it rise over night, then mix as for fruit cake. 
Mix the flour with new milk into a stiff dough, using one quarter 
pound of the butter, and a large tea-cupful of yeast; set it to 
rise the night l)efore ; next morning cream butter and sugar 
together; mix the yelks after being well beaten with the butter; 



CAKE EECTPES. 113 



then add the risen dough, working with the hands till perfectly 
smooth ; add the spices aud whites ; lastly, the fruits that have 
been rubbed in flour. Bake three and one half hours. — South 
Carolina. 

SUPERIOR BLACK CAKE. 

Ten eggs, one pound flour, one pound sugar, three fourths of 
a pound butter, two and one half pounds of raisins, one and one 
half of currants, three quarters pound citron, one half tea-cupful 
molasses, a gravy-spoonful of mixed spices, cinnamon, allspice, 
mace, nutmeg, one tumblerful of whisky or brandy, one half 
tumblerful of wine and a wine-glassful of rose water ; also one 
quarter pound of pounded almonds. — Mrs. Sallie Walker. 

BLACK CAKE. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one and one quarter pound 
butter, thirteen eggs, three pounds raisins, two pounds of cur- 
rants, one pound of citron, one wine-glassful brandy, two of wine, 
one nutmeg, one tea-spoonful cinnamon, one half tea-spoonful 
mace and cloves (each). Just before putting into the stove, stir 
in a small tea-cupful of vinegar, with a tea-spoonful soda. — Mrs. 
Henry G. Buckner. 

BLACK CAKE. 

One pound of browned flour, one of butter, one of brown su- 
gar, twelve eggs ; beat butter and sugar to a cream ; having beat- 
en the eggs well, stir them in alternately with the flour ; add, 
gradually, two pound of raisins (dredged with flour), two pounds 
of currants, two table-spoonfuls of cloves, two of cinnamon, one 
of mace, two nutmegs, one tumbler of molasses, and one of 
brandy. Slice one pound of citron thin ; put a layer of batter 
iu the rnold, then several slices of citron, and so on till filled. 
Bake in a moderate oven four hours. — Mrs. Allen Bashford. 

CHOCOLATE OR JELLY CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, three of flour, three 
fourths of a cup of sour cream or milk, three eggs, one tea> 
spoonful cream of tartar, a half tea-spoouful of soda. 



114 CAKE EECIPES. 



FUMng for the above Cake.—T-wo ounces of chocolate, one cup- 
ful of sugar, three fourths of a cupful of sweet milk ; boil half 
done. — Miss McCarney. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Three and a half cupfuls flour, two and a half of sugar, one of 
butter, whites of twelve eggs, oue tea-spoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls of tartaric acid. When the batter is well mixed, 
powder the acid very fine, sprinkle, and beat in well. — Mrs. Mary 

Owrmingham. . 

JELLY CAKE. 

Ten whites or five whole eggs, three tea-cupfuls of flour, two 
of sugar, one of butter, a half tea-cupful of sweet milk or 
cream, one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, a half tea-spoonful 
of soda. — Mrs. Johnson Rogers. 

BISCUIT A LA CREME. 

Six ounces sugar, eight eggs, one pint cream, four ounces 
flour. Beat the cream, adding eight yellows ; the sugar and a 
little vanilla to flavor; then beat the eight whites and mix with, 
the other ingredients. Make small paper moulds, and bake in a 
moderate oven. Serve with any kind of jelly.' — 0. JSegman. 

WINE CAKE. 

One pound sugar, ten ounces butter, eight eggs, one pound 
and ten ounces of flour, one pennyweight of soda and two of 
cream of tartar, three fourths of a pint of milk, and lemon juice. 
Beat butter and sugar till light, adding eggs gradually ; then the 
milk, lemon juice, cream of tartar, soda, and flour. Dust the 
cake-moulds with sugar ; pour in the batter and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. — C. E. F, Hegman. 

CREAM CAKES. 

One pint milk, half pound butter, twelve ounces flour, ten 
eggs. Place the milk and butter in a stew-pan ; when it btila 
stir in the flour ; keep it on the fire and stir constantly till tue 
dough loosens from the bottom of the pan ; then add eggs. 
Bake in a hot oven in buttered pans. Cut open and fill with 
lemon cream. — C. E. F, Hegman. 



CAKE RECIPES. 115 



LADY CAKE. 

One and a half pounds sugar, one pound butter, one and a half 
pounds flour, one pint whites of eggs ; add almonds and lemon 
iuice. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, adding gradually 
the eggs, the lemon juice and almonds ; then the flour as gently 
as possible. Bake iii a moderate oven. — C -E. F. Hegman. 

MORAINES. 
Half pound almonds, ten yellows, a half pound of butter, 
twelve ounces sugar, two ounces citron, a half pound of flour, 
one pint of cream. Mash the almonds with the eggs in a mor- 
tar ; mix with all of the above ingredients ; beat the ten whites 
to a stiflf froth ; mix all well together. Bake in small fluted 
moulds in a moderate oven. — C. E. F. Hegman. 

MILLE-ANS CAKE. 

A half pound of butter, half pound of sugar, half pound of 
flour, two ounces orange peel, two ounces almonds, a little lemon 
peel grated, four eggs ; beat butter and sugar very light, add 
the eggs, then the other ingredients. Bake in buttered pans, in 
a moderate oven ; do not set them too near each other, as they 
will spread. — G. E. F. Hegman. 

CREAM CAKE. GOOD. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, the whites of eight eggs, 
three and one-half cups of flour, one cup of milk, one tea- 
Bpoon of soda, two of cream tartar. For the cream, one pint 
of sweet milk sweetened to taste, yelks of three eggs. Thicken 
■with flour to the consistency of thick custard, flavor with va- 
nilla. — Mrs. Hughes, Danville. ' 

HILL CAKES. 

One pound flour, one pound of sugar, one-half pound but- 
ter, three eggs, two table-spoons of cinnamon. Mix together 
the butter and flour, then stir in the sugar and cinnamon. 
Mix to a paste with the eggs. Cut out with a biscuit cutter, 
and bake a very little while, just enough to cook them. — Mrs. 
E. Douglass, Fisgah, Ky. 



116 FrLLING FOE CAKE EECIPES. 



WlIoLXHa FOR CAKB. 



A BEAUTIFUL COLORING FOR CAKE. 

Equal portions of alum, cream of tartar, and cochineal, pounded 
fine and dissolved in water. — Mrs. Mat. Scott. 

ICING MADE WITH GELATINE. 

Two table-spoonfuls gelatine, one half pint of boiling water ; 
put on the stove and let it boil till well dissolved. Strain the 
mixture before using ; pour it gradually on icing sugar, making 
a stiff paste. Season to taste. — Mrs. Smiih Hawes. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Beat whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, gradually add three 
tea-cupfuls white sugar; beat very hard ; then add grated choco- 
late according to taste. — Mrs. Jones. 

LEMON JELLY. 
To put between cakes. Three ounces of butter, four eggs, 
four lemons; all the juice and the grated rind of two only, 
three fourths of a cupful sugar ; mix well together ; put in a pan 
and let it come to a boil ; be careful to stir all the while, or it 
may scorch. When cold, spread between cakes. — Miss Mattie 
Clay. 

CREAM FILLING FOR CAKES. 
Boil nearly a pint of milk ; then stir into it two table-spoonfuls 



FHJ.raG FOE CAKE EECIPES. 117 

of corn starch moistened with a little milk, two eggs, one cup- 
ful of sugar ; when nearly done add one half cupful of butter 
and flavor to taste. 

FILLING FOR JELLY CAKE. 

One quart of new milk, whites of five eggs, eight table- 
spoonfuls of flour, stirred and boiled to a thick paste. — Mrs. Al- 
len Bashford. 

ICING TO PUT BETWEEN JELLY CAKES. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiflf froth, three tea-cup- 
fuls sugar ; pour over sugar one half pint of boiling water; let it 
boil to the consistency of candy, then pour into the whites 
slowly, stirring all the while ; put between the cakes while 
warm ; season icing with anythmg you choose. — Mrs. John Ray. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

To be put between cake. Dissolve one cupful of sugar in 
the juice of one large lemon ; beat three eggs light, add and mix 
well ; put a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a pot over a 
fire ; when melted pour over the above, and cook till very thick, 
stirring constantly. 

MIXTURE FOR CAKE. 

Soak two boxes of gelatine one hour in as much water as 
will cover it ; heat a cupful of sherry wine, add the gelatine, 
and stir till dissolved ; beat the whites of ten eggs to a stiflf 
froth, add to this two cupfuls of sweet cream, well beaten ; stir 
in enough sugar to sweeten, add one table-spoonful of vanilla; 
strain in the wine and gelatine when cool, but not stifi"; then add 
two grated cocoanuts, reserving enough to sprinkle on top of 
the cake. 

CUSTARD-SUBSTITUTE FOR JELLY. 

In one half pint of sweet milk boil one inch of vanilla beau , 
dissolve two table-spoonfuls of corn starch in three table-spoonfuls 
of milk ; stir it with the half pint, sweeten to taste, and boil, 
stirring to prevent lumps ; spread between the layers of cake, 
when cold. 



118 FILLING FOE CAKE EECIPES. 

ANOTHER SUBSTITUTE FOR JELLY. 

Make an icing with three quarters of a pound sugar and whites 
of three eggs ; spread the cake with icing ; then sprinkle grated 
cocoanut on ; smooth with a knife, and so on till all the layers 
are used. Ice the top and put in to the stove a few minutes to 
harden. 

DELICIOUS FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Whip one pint rich cream, beat the whites of two eggs to 
stiff froth, then beat together. Add one cup of white sugar 
and the yelks of the eggs well beaten. Flavor to suit the 
taste. Beat the whole an hour. — Mrs. Allen Bashford. 

CHOCOLATE PASTE. 

Five table-spoonfuls of grated- chocolate (Baker's), two 
table-spoonfuls of corn starch, two eggs, one and one-half 
cups of white sugar, one pint milk. Heat the milk, add the 
eggs and other ingredients, boil and stir to a stiff paste. 
Flavor with vanilla and spread between layers of cake. 

LEMON FILLING. 

Two large lemons, two cups of sugar (Coffee A.), two large 
or three small apples, two eggs beaten separately. Take the 
juice and some of the pulp of the lemons, mix all together 
and boil two hours, stirring frequently ; add a piece of butter 
the size of an egg. — Mrs. A. Bashford. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One pint new milk, one cup white sugar, the yelks of two 
eggs. Beat sugar and yelks together, then put in milk and 
boil until thick. Grate in one cake of sweet or Baker's 
chocolate and boil ten minutes. "When cool flavor with va- 
nilla. — Mrs. Joseph Mitchell. 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 119 



I L 



crrsT AROs. 



I 



WINE JELLY. 



Two pounds of sugar, one pint of wine, one pint of cold 
water, one package of gelatine, juice of two lemons, grated rind 
of one, one quart of boiling water, one tea-spoonful of ground 
or a handful of stick cinnamon. Soak the gelatine in cold wa- 
ter ; add sugar, lemons and cinnamon ; pour on a quart of boil- 
ing water, and stir until the gelatine is perfectly dissolved. Put 
the wine in, and strain through a flannel bag. Wet the moulds 
with cold water and set away to cool. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

One half gallon morning's milk ; put into a kettle and allow 
to come merely to a boil. Have ready six eggs beaten lightly, 
sweetened with one coffee-cupful of sugar ; strain through a fine 
towel on to the eggs and sugar, stirring rapidly. Scour the ket- 
tle nicely, and put the custard back on the fire and let it stay a 
few minutes, or until it scarcely boils, stirring gently, to prevent 
burning. Pour into a bowl and dip it up with a large ladle", 
pouring it up and down, until it is nearly cold. Froth one pint 
rich cream and put over the top. Season all with vanilla.— 
Mn. Martin. 

TRIFLE. 

Soak sponge cake in wine, and pour over it some custard. 
Sweeten rich cream, whip to a froth, and lay on the top. 



120 CUSTAED RECIPES. 



SOLID CUSTARD. 

Three eggs, beaten separately, one pint morning's milk, one 
half ounce gelatine, sugar to taste, flavor with vanilla. The 
gelatine is dissolved in the railk, which pour while boiling upon 
the yelks, and stir till cool. Beat three whites to a stiff froth, 
and stir in ; mould and serve with cream. 

COLD CUSTARD. 

Two quarts of milk, two table-spoonfuls of liquid rennet. 
Season with vanilla. Make it two hours before using, and do 
not disturb it after the rennet is mixed in well. — Mrs. J. H- 
Brent. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

Two large lemons, three tea-cupfuls of sugar, four cupfuls of 
water, one half cupful of butter, five table-spoonfuls corn starch, 
six eggs; slice the lemons and put them in the water; let 
them boil till the strength is extracted, then dip them out and 
strain the water ; beat the yellows, butter and sugar together, 
and pour the water over them. Eeturn to the fire and when 
ready to boil, stir in the starch. Beat the whites to a stiff froth 
and stir in lightly after it is taken off the stove. — Miss Bdle 
Croxton. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in one pint of milk, by boiling ; 
beat the yelks of four eggs (sweetened), and stir them in while 
the milk is on the fire; when this is cooked to the consistency of 
custard, strain into a bowl, stirring constantly. Season one half 
gallon cream with wine ; whip to a stiff froth and beat it in, just 
as the custard (which should be seasoned with vanilla or rose 
water) begins to congeal ; have ready a glass bowl lined with 
sponge cake. — Mrs. Brutus Clay. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One quart of morning's milk, four yelks, sweetened to taste; 
boil till thick, care being taken to prevent curdling. When 
cool, season highly. Froth three quarts of rich cream and let it 



CTJSTAED RECIPES. 121 



drain. Pour a little cold water over a box of Cox's gelatine 
and let stand about twenty minutes ; tben pour over it n tea- 
cupful of boiling water, and set on the stove till thor jugbly 
melted. When milk-warm, stir it into the custard ; as doon as 
it begins to congeal, stir in the whipped cream very quickly ; be 
careful not to beat it. Be sure to stir the custard well from the 
bottom and sides, to prevent becoming lumpy. — Mn. Mollie 
TalhoU. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Dissolve in a pint of boiling water one ounce of gelatine 
(Cox's is best) ; bod until thoroughly dissolved. Beat the yel- 
lows of four eggs ; pour the gelatine upon them, stirring quickly ; 
pour both through a strainer upon half pound of sugar. Stir 
until cool and about to congeal ; then put in the whips from a 
quart of rich cream. Season to taste while the custard is cool- 
ing. 

FARINA CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Two quarts new milk, four eggs, two tea-spoonfuls farina, one 
half wine-glassful of whisky, one and one half tea-cupfuls of 
sugar ; beat the eggs, sugar and farina together till perfectly 
smooth ; pour the milk boiling upon it ; then cook till thick 
enough ; stir all the time. Season to taste. — Mrs. Jonatlian 
Owen. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITHOUT MOULDING. 

Make a custard with the yelks of three eggs, a pint of morn- 
ing's milk in which a vanilla bean has been boiled ; sweeten to 
taste. Dissolve one half ounce of isinglass in one half pint of 
warm water and stir it into the custard. When the custard is 
cool enough, stir in a quart of rich cream that has been weU 
whipped, and seasoned with wine and sugar. Put into a glass 
bowl before it is congealed ; lay on the top lady- fingers, and 
just before serving beat the whites of three eggs to a froth, 
mix with whipped cream, and pile on top. In summer use uiore 
isinglass. 



122 CUSTARD RECIPES. 



VELVET CREAM. 

One coffee-cupful of wiue, one half a box of gelatine, the 
juice and grated peel of one lemon, one and one half pints of 
milk and one coffee-cupful of sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in 
the wine over the fire, grate in the peel and add the juice of 
the lemon, and after it has dissolved, add the sugar; let it 
simmer, then strain ; add the milk and stir till cold, then put 
into a mould ; set in a cool place to congeal. — Mn. Jones. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Pour one pint of cold water over one box of Cox's gelatine and 
let it stand one hour. Then add one and one half pints of 
boiling water, two tea-cupfuls of sugar ; when nearly cold flavor 
with vanilla ; churn up one half gallon of rich cream and beat 
the froth into the jelly when almost cold. — Mrs, Harry Brent. 

FLOAT. 

Take whites of six eggs, five table-spoonfuls of acid jelly, and 
three table-spoonfuls sugar ; beat together until light. Have a 
bowl three fourths full of well frothed cream, which has been 
flavored with wine and sweetened to taste ; place lightly on top 
of the first preparation. — Mrs. Myland. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Beat six eggs ; sweeten to taste ; boil half a gallon of morn- 
ing's milk, let it cool, and then pour it over the eggs, stirring 
well. Pour into the baking dish and set in a pan of hot water 
to bake. Grate nutmeg on top. Serve cold, with cream, or 
without, as you prefer. — Mrs. M. T. Seott. 

BIBAVO. 

Boil for a few minutes, in one pint of water, one ounce of 
isinglass, one fourth of a vanilla bean, and a half pound of 
sugar. When the mixture is lukewarm, stir in three pints •of 
thick cream, first beaten to a thick froth. Pour into a mould 
or a bowl. 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 123. 



IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE. 

Soak for several hours half a tea-cupful of Irish moss, chang- 
ing the water, drain well, shaking the water from it. Put it into 
a kettle with half a gallon of new milk flavored with vanilla and 
sweetened to taste ; let it boil five minutes ; strain and pour into 
moulds. — Mra. Cunningham. 

ISINGLASS BLANC MANGE. 
Boil two ounces of isinglass in one and a half pints of new 
milk; strain and pour in one pint of cream, sweetened to taste; 
add one cup of rose water ; let it boil to the top of the kettle 
once, and let it settle ; then strain and pour into moulds. — Mrs. 
Cunningham. 

BLANC MANGE. 

Blanch one ounce sweet almonds, and one ounce of peach ker- 
nels ; when perfectly dry, grate them ; then mix with one quart 
of cream or milk; put into a pan with one ounce of isinglass; 
add the juice of a lemon; set on the stove and stir constantly, 
till the isinglass is dissolved ; add eight ounces of sugar ; re- 
move the scum as it rises. Strain through a sieve into a mould; 
set on the ice till ready for use. 

IRISH CREAM. 
Grate the rind and squeeze the juice of one orange into 
enough sugar to sweeten three pints of cream ; whip to a froth. 
Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a pint of water, and just 
before it congeals, stir it into the whipped cream. — Miss Ella 
JBiarrison. 

AMBROSIA. 

Slice oranges or pine-apples in a glass bowl ; sweeten well , 
have a layer of the fruit and a layer of grated cocoanut, and 
9D on, until the bowl is full. Grate cocoanut on top. — JUisa 

Elbert. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in one pint of water. Beat 
up the whites of six eggs, and after tlie gelatine has thoroughly 



124 CUSTAED RECIPES. 



dissolved, pour on it one pint of boiling water ; then stir in one 
pound of sugar and the juice of four lemons ; beat all together; 
continue beating until it begins to thicken ; then pour into a 
bowl ; afterward serve with sweetened cream, seasoned with wine 
and nutmeg. — Mrs. Dr. Powell, Louisville, Ky. 

ROCK CREAM. 

One tea-cupful of boiled rice, whites of six eggs, beaten stiff 
and sweetened to taste ; add three table-spoonfuls sweet, rich 
cream last. Flavor to taste. — Mrs. Hamilton,. 

ANGELS FOOD. 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth ; a table-spoonful of 
powdered sugar to each white ; into which beat a red jelly, to 
give it a pretty color. Whip a pint of cream, sweetened and 
seasoned to taste. Pour the first preparation over it. Serve 
with cake. — Mrs. Mary White. 

ORIOLE'S NEST. 

Mould blanc mange in egg shells, having emptied and washed 
as many of them as will make a pretty nest. Having made a 
stiff jelly, partly fill a bowl with it, and place the egg shapes up- 
on it in such a way as to look well when turned out. All 
around and over the eggs, place long strips of preserved orange 
rind, to resemble straw. Melt a cupful of the jelly, reserved 
for the purpose, and pour over the whole. After it is thoroughly 
congealed, turn out upon a glass dish. 

ISINGLASS CREAM. 

Use three quarts of new milk, one quart of water, with five 
ounces of isinglass dissolved in it (which when cool pour into the 
milk), sixteen yelks of eggs, two and a half pounds of sugar, 
one glass Madeira wine ; mix them well, put through a jelly -bag, 
and mould. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

With one pint of cream mix six ounces of powdered loaf 



CUSTARD EECIPES. 125 



sugar, the juice of two lemons, and two glasses of white wine. 

Add another pint of cream, and stir the whole very hard ; boil 

two ounces of isinglass with four small tea-cupfuls of water, 

until it is reduced to one half; then stir the isinglass, lukewarm, 

into the other ingredients, and set aside to congeal. — Mrs. J. H. 

BrenL 

CALVES' FOOT JELLY. 

Split four feet and put the whole into a stewpan ; pour one 

gallon of cold water over ; boil till reduced to about one half 

then strain through a sieve, to remove the bones. When settled 

and cold, take oflf the grease from the surface and boil again 

with the following mixture ; six eggs, whipped in a little water, 

two pounds of sugar, and the juice of four lemons ; stir all well, 

removing the scum as it rises. When thoroughly skimmed, set 

by the fire and pour one pint of Madeira, or any other kind of 

wine or liquor into it ; filter through a flannel bag. 

CALVES' FOOT JELLY. 

Cook the feet to a jelly, pour off the liquor, and put it to cool ; 
next day skim it carefully, and to one gallon of jelly add four 
pounds of sugar, the juice of twelve lemons and the sliced peel 
of two, the whites of twelve eggs well beaten, and the shells 
crushed, two or three sticks of cinnamon, three pints wine, a 
little brandy, if you wish it highly colored. Boil all together 
for some moments, then strain carefully through a flannel bag. 
— Mrs. J. P., Lexington. 

GELATINE JELLY. 

Upon a box of gelatine pour one puit of cold water ; let it 
stand until dissolved ; then pour on three pints boiling water, 
two pounds white sugar, one and a half pints wine, juice of three 
lemons and rind of two. Strain through a flannel bag, — Mrs. J. P. 

ISINGLASS JELLY. 

One quart of water, a half pint of Madeira wine, two 
uunces isinglass, a half pound of sugar. Put the isinglass 
in cold water, and let it dissolve ; put in the above ingredients 



126 CUSTAKD EECrPES. 



with the juice of two lemons. Let it boil gently five minutes, 
that it may throw up all the scum, which should be removed j 
then strain through a flannel bag. It can be colored pink by 
the addition of a little cochineal. 

RUSSIAN JELLY. 

Put two thirds of the above colored isinglass jelly into a basin, 
partially imbedded in rough ice ; then whip the jelly with a whisk, 
until it assumes the appearance of a substantial froth and begins 
to thicken, when it must be immediately poured into a mould 
and kept in ice until served. 

ORANGES WITH TRANSPARENT JELLY. 

One half dozen perfect oranges. Make a hole at the stalk 
with a circular tin cutter, one half inch in diameter. Use a 
small spoon to remove all the pulp and loose pith from the in- 
terior ; then soak the oranges in cold water one hour, rinse again 
in cold water and drain on a cloth ; then set them in a deep pan, 
and surround with ice. Fill three with bright pink jelly, and 
the remainder with plain jelly. When it has become firm, wipe 
the oranges and cut into quarters. Serve on a glass stand. 

VIENNA CREAM. 

The whites of five eggs, five ounces of red currant jelly, five 
ounces of raspberry jelly, two and a half ounces of sifted 
icing sngar. Put all into a bowl, and beat until it rises into 
a stiff froth, and serve in a glass bowl — apricot jelly may be 
used — but fruit coloring is necessary to give to it the pretty 
color. This is a beautiful dish. — Mrs. Allen Bashford. 

CAROMEL CREAM. 

One-half gallon cream, one-half box gelatine, one pint 
brown sugar, three-fourths pint fresh mjlk, froth cream ; dis- 
solve gelatine in four table-spoonfuls water ; boil sugar till 
consistency of candy; pour milk into candy through a sieve; 
strain gelatine through a sieve into same. When it begins 
to thicken stir in the frothed cream. — Mrs. 0, Jones. 



KECrPES FOR ICES. 127 



ICBS, 



COCOANUT CREAM. 

Froe the nut from the hull, grate the kernel, which, with the 
milk of the cocoanut, pour into one gallon of cream, which has 
already been partiaDy frozen. Freeze until hard. — Mrs. B. A, 
Grimes. 

JERUSALEM CREAM. 

Grate fine not quite two cakes of chocolate, boil five minutes 
in one quart of new milk, stirring all the time ; let it become per- 
fectly cold ; add one gallon of rich cream made quite sweet. 
Freeze. 

ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts thick cream, one pound sugar, one pint new 
milk, into which cut a vanilla bean. Put on the fire, allowing 
milk and bean to boil slowly; strain through a wire sieve, 
permitting the small seeds of the bean to fall into the cream. 
When it becomes cool, whip all to a froth and freeze, cutting 
it down frequently as it freezes. — Mrs. Edward Taylor. 

ALMOND CREAM 

Blanch and pulverize one quart of almonds ; this should be 
done in a mortar, and a little new milk added to reduce the 
nuts to a fine paste. Use this with one gallon of cream, mixing 
the almonds iu when the cream is nearly frozen. — Mrs. P. T. 
AUin, Sr. 



128 EECrPES FOE ICES. 



ICE CREAM. 

One quart cream, one pint milk, pinch of Irish moss; wash 
the moss, put it in the milk, set it on the stove and stir until 
it becomes thick ; strain through a sieve ; set it on ice ; sweeten 
and flavor to taste ; then pour it into the cream, which has been 
previously put into the freezer. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Pour two pounds sugar in one quart cream, grate the peel, 
and squeeze in the juice of eight large lemons, and add to sugar 
and cream. Let it stand two hours, then strain carefully and 
freeze. — Mrs. Payne. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD FROZEN. 

Break up and cook to a smooth paste, in water, one half pound 
of chocolate (Maillard's vanilla chocolate is the nicest). Put one 
half gallon of new milk into a bain-marie ; when it comes to a 
scald, stir in the chocolate, then add four eggs (having first 
beaten them separately), carefully stirring all the time. Have 
in the freezer one quart of cream that has been beaten to a stifl 
froth, then add the chocolate custard, also a light half pound 
of sugar. 

BISQUE GLACE. 

Make a rich ice cream ; take fresh egg kisses, and dry well ; 
roll fine, and as the cream freezes stir in. — Mrs. Cunningham. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Rub a pint of ripe strawberries through a sieve ; add one pint 
sweet, rich cream, sweetened with four ounces of powdered sugar. 
Freeze.— Miss Ella MitcJieU. 

CARAMEL CREAM. 

Make a rich custard of one pint of morning's milk and six 
eggs. Have ready one and one quarter pounds of brown sugar, 
toasted (be careful not to burn it). Stir the sugar into the 
custard while both are hot. This will flavor one gallon of cream. 
— Mrs. W. Jones. 



KECIPES FOE ICES. 129 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

To one gallon of cream, four table-spoonfuls sweet chocolate; 
mix the chocolate like starch, and pour into the cream ; sweeten 
to taste and freeze. — Mrs. Taylor. 

ICE CREAM. 

To one half gallon cream, one ounce gelatine dissolved in a tin 
cup of water (cold). Put on the stove ; stir till it comes to a 
boil ; take it off and let it cool. Pour it into the cream ; stir 
constantly and thoroughly or it will become lumpy. — Mrs. W. 
Jones. 

BISQUE GLACE. 

One half gallon of cream, one and one half dozen macaroons 
(the macaroons must be stale, or if not, dried in the stove) ; 
pounded fine. Pour a little cream over them, and allow to 
stand until they soften ; beat until very fine ; then add remainder 
of the cream, and freeze. It is not well to have the macaroons 
too thick in the cream. — Mrs. W. G. Talbot. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

Make a custard of one pint of milk, one pint of cream and six 
eggs ; sweeten- to taste. Beat smooth half a pound of almonds, 
add rose water to the almonds ; mix one quarter pound of raisins, 
seeded, one fourth of a pound of currants, an ounce of citron. 
Flour these well ; pour the custard (hot) over the fruit ; mix 
thoroughly ; when cool, add a pint of whipped cream. — Mrs. J. 
A. Howerton. 

ICE PUDDING. 

Boil one and a half pints new milk with one tea-spoonful of 
gelatine ; beat five eggs, and mix them with the milk as for cus- 
tard. Use a tin mould with a cover ; oil it, and line with can- 
died fruits, such as plums, green gages, etc. ; then pour tno 
custard in very gradually, that the fruit may remain at the bot- 
tom. Put on the cover, and bury the mould in ice for a whole 
day, only turning it out the moment wanted.— jWts. W. Jones. 



130 EECrPES FOE ICEB. 



NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Prepare a custard of one pint of cream, a half pint of milk, 
a half pound of sugar, an ounce of sweet almonds pounded, 
j'elks of six eggs, half a stick of vanilla. Put them into a pan 
over slow fire ; stir until of the proper consistency, being careful 
not to let it boil. When cold, add a wine-glassful of brandy. 
Partially freeze ; then add one fourth pound of raisins, and a 
half pound of preserved fruit, cut small. Mix well, and mould. 
— Mrs. Green Clay. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

The day before you wish to use the pudding, seed two ounces 
of raisins, wash two ounces of currants, cut up two ounces of 
candied citron, two ounces candied ginger, pine-apples, and any 
kind of fruit — candied peaches, apricots, cherries, orange peel, 
or plums. Pour over this fruit three wine-glassfuls of Maraschino 
cordial, and let it soak all night. Blanch four dozen large 
chestnuts, or almonds, in boiling water, and place them in the 
oven to dry ; when cold, pulverize in a mortar with a half 
pound of sugar and a vanilla bean ; sift through a fine wire 
sieve. Have in a stew-pan one quart of boiling milk ; beat the 
yelks of twelve eggs until light ; then beat in the sugar, nuts, 
and bean ; stir all in the boiling milk. Let this mixture boil 
until it begins to thicken, then strain through a fine sieve ; when 
cold, put it in a freezer, and freeze partially. Whip four pints 
of thick cream and stir it into the custard with the fruit already 
prepared ; also, mash up macaroons or meringues, and stir in 
at the same time. Freeze all well together. — Mrs. Carrie Pres- 
ton Ihxmton. 

TOUTE FRUITE. 

One pint milk, one quart cream, yelks of five eggs beaten 
light with sugar, three cupfuls sugar, juice and grated peel of 
one lemon, a glass of light wine, one pound crystalized fruit, 
chopped ; beat milk almost to boiling, and pour slowly over eggs 
and sugar, beating all together ; return to fire and boil ten min- 



RECIPES FOR ICES. 131 



utes. When cold, beat in cream, and half freeze before stirring 
in the finely chopped fruit, which beat in with the lemon ami 
wine ; cover, and freeze hard. 

TOUTE FRUITE. 

Blanch four dozen sweet almonds ; when cold, put them in a 
mortar with one pound of sugar and half of a vanilla bean ; 
Ijound them well together and pass through a sieve into a sauce- 
pan, with the yellows of twelve eggs ; beat all well together and 
pour on them a quart of boiling milk, mixing well ; then stir 
over the fire until it thickens ; when cold, freeze. Have two 
ounces currants, two ounces raisins, four ounces citron soaked in 
two wine-glassfuls of sherry the previous day. Beat one dozen 
meringues with one quart of whipped cream ; mix in the pre- 
pared fruit and stir into the frozen custard, and freeze again. 
— Mrs. A. Garrett. 

MADEIRA WINE SHERBET. 

Make a sweet sangaree of the best wine ; mix it with the white 
of an egg, well beaten, and freeze. 

ROMAN PUNCH ICE. 

Make one quart of sweet lemonade and freeze ; whip whites 
of four eggs to a froth ; mix sugar into it, as for kisses. When 
the ice is beginning to settle, work this into it ; when almost 
hard enough put one glass of Jamaica rum into it, and mix well. 
— Mist Mary J. Redmon. 

CHAMPAGNE ICE. 

Proceed as for Boman punch ; flavor it with a small bottle of 
champagne wine. 

PINE-APPLE ICE. 

To a two-gallon freezer, one bottle of pine-apple; make a 
rich syrup of three pounds of sugar ; use boiling water ; pour tliis 
warm over the juice, and put all into the freezer. After it is 
well chilled, stir in the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
The pine-apple should be chopped very fine. — Mrs. Buckrwr. 



132 RECIPES FOE ICES. 



PINE-APPLE ICE. 

Two cans of fresh pine-apples ; chop the fruit very fine ; add 
the juice of two lemons, four tea-cupfuls of sugar, a half gallon 
of boiling water. When cold, add whites of two eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, and freeze till firm. — Miss Kate James, MaysviUe. 

LEMON ICE. 

Eight fresh, juicy lemons ; roll till well bruised, and squeeze 
out the juice; add enough white sugar to make a thick syrup, 
also, a pint of cold water. Let this come to a boil, then set 
away to cool; add water enough to make a good strong 
lemonade, then put into the freezer ; when nearly frozen, add the 
whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; stir well, and freeze 
till firm. — Miss Florence Short. 

SHERBET. 

Two cans of pine-apple, six lemons, whites of six eggs, five 
"pints of water ; sugar to taste. 

SHERBET. 

One gallon of boiling water poured over a dozen lemons, let 
stand till cold; then press all the juice into the water; add 
three pounds of sugar, and the whites of twelve eggs while 
freezing. — Miss Kate Spear&. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

For one gallon of sherbet, one and one half dozen oranges, 
three pounds of white sugar, nine eggs (whites only), tartaric 
acid to taste. Grate enough of the rind to make the sugar straw- 
colored when mixed with the oranges ; of this sugar make one 
half gallon of syrup, and pour it over the juice and pulp of the 
minced oranges ; add to this one quart of cold water : strain into 
the freezer. When frozen to a mush, add the eggs well beaten ; 
finish as in any other sherbet. — Jean H. Daviess. 

RASPBERRY ICE. 

The juice of ripe raspberries and a little water ; sweeten to 
taste. Add the juice of lemon; strain the mixture through a 
fine sieve into a freezer, and freeze. 



JELLY FOE MEAT RECIPES. 133 



JBI.I.Y FOR MBAT. 



JELLY FOR MEAT. 
Apple jelly can be colored red with liquid cochineal. 

WHITE PIPPIN APPLE JELLY. 

Prepare the apples, by peeling and coring, then drop into 
cold water. Have a large fiat tin pan on the stove with one 
quart of boiling water ; slice the apples quite thin, and drop in 
to the boiling water. Cook until tender ; then strain without 
pressing through a colander, afterward through a flannel bag. 
Allow two pints of sugar to three pints of juice. Boil fifteen 
minutes quite rapidly. — Mrs. NorOumit. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Grather the currants when just ripe. Pick them carefully 
from the stem ; press them thoroughly with the hands and strain 
(without pressing) through a fiannel bag. One pound of sugar 
to one pint of juice. Put the juice into the kettle, and let it 
almost come to a boil ; skim several times and then put in the 
sugar. Boil rapidly a few minutes. This makes the fairest 
jelly, but the quantity is not so great as when the currants are 
heated before straining. — Mrs. Martin. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY, 

Put in to a kettle and cover them with water ; boil until they 
crack open ; strain thnugh a flannel bag. To each pint of juice, 
one pound of sugar ; boil hard fifteen minutes ; skim well. 
When done, put into glasses before it cools. — Mrs. Alice Garrett, 



134 JELLY FOE MEAT EECIPES. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Take equal quantities of raspberries and currants, one pound 
of sugar to one pint of juice. Make according to the recipes 
already given. Blackberry jelly can be made in same way. 

GREEN GRAPE JELLY. 

Pick the grapes from the stems, and put into a tin bucket 
that will hold about two quarts ; add a pint of cold water. 
Place this bucket in a vessel of boiling water, and leave till the 
fruit is thoroughly scalded. Press very gently through a flan- 
nel jelly bag. To one pint of juice, add one pound of white 
sugar ; boil ten minutes ; boil a pint at a time, and use a porce- 
lain-lined kettle. This will be light green or yellow. By add- 
ing a handful of ripe fruit, it will make a delicate pink. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Boil one quart of cranberries with suflScient water to pre- 
vent their burning ; strain through a seive ; add sugar to 
taste, and again boil until thick. Pour into a mold and set 
aside until cold, when it can be turned out. 



CONFECTIONERY RECXPES. 135 



CONFBCTIOHKRir. 



COCOANUT DROPS. 

One pound of grated cocoanut, one half pound of white 
powdered sugar, whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Drop 
on buttered pans and bake. 

WHITE CREAM CANDY. 

Put eight pounds fine white sugar into a pan, and add one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar; pour over enough water to dissolve 
it. Melt in water a little Prussian blue, to color the sugar blue- 
white ; pour into the above and boil till done. Then pour it on 
a marble-top stand that has been well oiled ; turn the edg&= 
over into the middle, and form into the shape of a ball; fasten 
it to a hook driven into the wall; pull candy toward you, 
throwing it on the hook each time ; continue until perfectly 
white ; then pull out into a long roll, and cut into sticks the 
required length. Flavor with vanilla. — Philip Nippert. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One half pound Baker's chocolate grated, one half pound 
butter, one half pint milk, three pounds brown sugar, one half 
bottle of vanilla. Stir the ingredients well, and cook for thirty 
minutes, stirring all the time ; add the vanilla a few minutea 
before taking off the fire. — Mws Sanson. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One coffee-cupful rich cream, one coffee-cupfiil brown sugar, 



136 CONFECTIONEEY EECIPES. 

one of molasses, a piece of butter the size of a hen egg. Boil 
all twenty minutes ; then add seven even table-spoonfuls grated 
chocolate and boil until done. Pour into a buttered dish, and 
as soon as of the right consistency, cut or mark into squares.— 
Mrs. W. Jones. 

CREAM CANDY. 
Three pounds granulated sugar, one pint cream, one half pinf 
water, two table-spoonfuls cider vinegar, one table-spoonful of 
butter. Boil very quickly ; when just done and ready to pour 
out, put in one tea-spoonful of vanilla. — Mrs. Georgia Kdkr. 

CANDY. 

Four pounds sugar, water to dissolve, one tea-cupful of vine- 
gar, one large tea-spoonful of salt. Boil all together iifteen min- 
utes; add two tea-cupfuls of cream, one eighth of a pound of 
butter; flavor with vanilla. -r-Mrs. James Hughes. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

One cocoanut grated ; the whites of four eggs beaten to a 
stifi" froth, one half pound sifted white sugar ; flavor with rose- 
water or lemon ; mix well. Have ready writing paper, well 
greased, with which to cover the bottom of baking-pan ; drop 
the mixture in, in small heaps, an inch a part. Bake in a quick 
oven. When beginning to turn yellow, remove from the fire. 
—Miss EUa Mitchell. 

COCOANUT MERINGUE. 

One pound powdered sugar, the whites of nine eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth. The sugar should be worked in slowly, with a 
wooden spoon. Have ready a pan well greased and floured. 
Drop a table-spoonful and sprinkle well with grated cocoanut. 
Bake in a slow oven, untU a nice brown. — Miss Fannie Slirop' 
ehire. 

MERINGUES. 

Beat the whites of teu eggs to a stiff froth ; add slowly ten 
table-spoonfuls of granulated sugar, finely powdered ; when well 



COKPECTIONEEY EECrPES. 137 

beaten together, and quite stiff, drop in the form of an egg ou 
to paper well buttered ; lay the paper on a tin pan in a warm 
oven ; when a light brown, take out, and remove with a spoon all 
that which is not baked ; this must be done carefully. Fill 
with whipped cream already sweetened and flavored ; lay two 
together. — Mrs. J. A. Hovxrtcm. 

SIDE DISH OF ORANGES. 
Peel oranges nicely, and put them in melted isinglass ; then 
roll them in sugar. 

CHOCOLATE EGG KISSES. 

One pound of powdered sugar, whites of six eggs, two ounces 
grated chocolate ; mix the chocolate very gently and as quickly 
as possible, otherwise it will cause the mixture to become too 
liquid, if worked too much. Bake in a cool oven, in buttered 
pans, until solid. — G. E. F. Hegman. 

MERINGUE. 

Whites of six eggs, one pound of powdered sugar, vanilla to 
taste. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and gently mix the sugar 
m ; add the vanilla to eggs ; bake in a cool oven, in buttered 
pans. — G. E. F. Hegman. 

MIRLETONS AUX-AMANDES. 

One fourth of a pound of macaroons, two ounces almonds, a 
half pound sugar, quarter pound butter, whites of five eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, and a little vanilla. Line small patty- 
moulds with a thin layer of puff paste ; mash the macaroons and 
almonds ; mix with the other ingredients. Bake in a hot oven. 
Serve hot or cold. — G. E. F. Hegman. 

FRANGIPANE A LA CONCURS. 

One quart of milk, a half pint of good brandy, one and a half 
pounds sugar, one quarter pound corn starch, eighteen eggs, 
a half pound of butter, two lemons. Line an earthen dish with 
puff paste; boil the milk; mix in a dish the eggs, sugar, 



138 CONFECTIONERY RECIPES. 

com starch, the juice and rind of the lemons, and the butter, 
heated. When the milk boils up, mix all and stir in briskly, 
until it thickens. Take off the fire, and stir in the brandy ; let 
it cool, and then pour into the paste. Bake in a hot oven ; 
serve hot, with wine or brandy sauce. — C. Hegrrum. 

TARTLETTES MARIN. 

Make a round bottom from confectioner's paste ; bake half 
done in a moderate oven ; then take out and spread with crab 
apple jelly ; cover with meringue ; grate chocolate over, and 
then strew on grated almonds ; dust the whole with powdered 
sugar ; set in a moderate oven to brown slightly. — 0. E. F. 
Segman. 

MERINGUE TARTS. 

Make a small bottom of confectioner's paste ; bake in a mod- 
erate oven half done ; then spread a meringue over it with cur- 
rant jelly in the center; brown slightly. — C. E. F. Regman. 

MERINGUE PIE. 

Place a thin lay^ of puff paste in the pie-pan, and bake 
well ; fill Avith quince marmalade ; put a meringue over and 
brown slightly. — G.E. F. Hegman. 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 

Place a thin layer of puff paste in the pie-pan, and bake well 
then fill with lemon cream, made thus : one quart milk, a half 
poynd of sugar, quarter pound corn starch, six eggs, four lem- 
ons. Grate the lemons ; mix the juice with the sugar, corn 
starch and eggs ; put the mUk on the fire ; while boiling add 
the above ingredients ; stir constantly and very rapidly untU 
thick. — C. E. F. Hegman. 

WHITE TAFFY CANDY. 

Six pounds of white sugar, one half pound butter, one tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar ; boil until it cracks ; pull tiU light and 
white. Flavor with vanilla. — FhUip Nippert. 



CONFECTIONEEY RECIPES. 139 

BROWN TAFFY. 

Six pounds New Orleans sugar, water sufficient to dissolve, 
half pound of butter ; boil until it cracks ; when almost done 
stir constantly, to prevent burning. When done, pour on mar- 
ble and pull till a light brown color ; arrange in broad strips on 
the table. When cold, break into pieces. Flavor with lemon 
oil. 

ALMOND CANDY. 

Take any quantity of sugar, and boil until it cracks, using a 
little cream of tartar to prevent graining. Butter a marble 
slab, and place on it four pieces of iron or small bars, to prevent 
the sugar from running off the stone. Pour on the candy ; 
sprinkle with almonds ; cover the almonds again, etc., etc., 
making it as thick as you wish. When nearly cold, cut into long 
narrow strips. 

BURNT ALMONDS. 

Sift all the dust from one pound of almonds, add one pound 
of sugar, and place on the fire to boil until it cracks ; take off and 
stir with a spatula, that the sugar may grain and become hard 
and dry ; then put all into a coarse wire sieve and sift off all the 
loose sugar ; also, separate those which stick together ; put the 
almonds into the kettle and return to the fire, stirring until brown ; 
then take off; boil again the grained sugar, till it cracks, then 
put in the almonds and stir with the spatula as before. Sift and 
separate a second time. Give them a third coat if you choose. 
Whilst boiling, use prepared cochineal to color the sugar. 

EGG KISSES. 

The whites of ten eggs, beaten to a stiff broth ; one and a 
half pounds powdered sugar, gradually whipped into the eggs ; 
flavor to taste. Grease a pan slightly, and put a table-spoon- 
ful of the mixture in places over it ; sift a little sugar on top, 
aj2<? brown in a slow oven. 



140 BEVERAGES. 



BBHTKRiliLGBS, 



CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 

One bottle champagne, one half tumblerful of sugar, one 
wine-glassful of rum, and one half dozen lemons. — Col. W. E. 
Simma. 

WHISKY PUNCH. 

One gallon of whisky, six tumblerfuls of sugar and one half 
dozen lemons. 

CATAWBA PUNCH. 

Five bottles of wine, one wine-glassful of brandy, one tumbler- 
ful of sugar, and one half dozen lemons. — Col. W. E. Simrm. 

SUPERIOR CATAWBA WINE. 

Cut the grapes and take off all that are imperfect or green. 
Mash them in a tub with a small mallet, having a leather tacked 
loosely over the end, stuffed with hay, to prevent mashing the 
seed. Let stand all night and press the juice into open vessels ; 
let it stand until the scum rises, breaking in cracks, showing a little 
white foam. Skim it off. Have the cask fumigated with 
brimstone ; pour in the wine, adding two pounds sugar to one gal- 
lon of juice. Put the bung in very loosely and let stand three 
weeks ; then tighten and let remain till February. Drain oflf 
very gently, bottle, cork and seal; keep in a cool place. — 
Mrs. Col. Simms. 



BEVEEAQES. 141 



CURRANT WINE. 

To one gallon of currant juice, add two gallons of water and 
lliree pounds of sugar. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Three quarts of juice, one quart of water, three pounds ot 
sugar ; to be placed in large stone jars, nearly full, then covered 
with a muslin cloth ; let remain till fermentation ceases. It is 
then to be bottled, care being taken to disturb the fluid as little 
as possible. — Mrs. Martin. 



STRAWBERRY WINE. 
Three pounds of sugar, one gallon of juice. Strain through 
a flannel and put away in a jug. Cover with thin muslin and 
let stand until spring. — Mrs. Brutus Clay. 

GOOSEBERRY WINE. 

Gather the berries when ripe ; mash them well and let stand from 
three to four days ; then strain, and to nine pints of juice add 
four pints of rain water ; to this quantity put four pounds brown 
sugar ; let stand from five to six weeks. Then strain and bottle. 
— Mrs. Dvdhy. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 
Crush the berries thoroughly ; to each gallon of berries add 
one half gallon rain water, let stand undisturbed twenty-four 
hours ; then strain ofi". To each gallon of juice add two pounds 
of sugar (white sugar). Put into a keg and let it stand till it 
ceases to hiss, then cork tightly. Let it stand four or six months, 
then draw off ; wash the keg and return. Let it stand six or 
twelve months. — Mrs. Volney Higgins. 

GRAPE WINE. 

When grapes are ripe, grind and press them ; put the juice 
in a barrel ; to a barrel of juice, add forty pounds of white 
sugar. Place the barrel in a cool cellar ; tack a cloth over the 
bung hole. After it has ceased to ferment, bung it tightly, let 
it stand till next spring, when it is ready to bottle — Mrs. Bedford. 



142 BEVERAGES. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Two quarts of juice, two quarts of water, three pounds oi 
loaf sugar ; let it stand in an open bucket more than a week 
skim and put it in a jug ; tie a thin cloth over it, and let it st^nd 
two months. — Miss Kate Spears. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

To every quart of juice add one half pound of sugar ; boil 
and skim well. When cool, add' one quart of whisky to every 
gallon of juice and sugar. Add spices of aU kinds whilst boil- 
ing. — MissE. Mitchell. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

One quart of juice, one pound of sugar ; race ginger, mace, 
allspice, cloves, cinnamon, to taste ; boil and strain through a 
sieve ; when cold, to every gallon of juice add a quart of brandy. 

STRAWBERRY ACID. 

Put twelve pounds of fruit into a jar, and cover with two 
quarts water acidulated with five ounces of tartaric acid ; let it 
stand forty-eight hours ; then strain, and to each pint of clear 
juice add one and a half pints of powdered sugar ; stir until 
dissolved ; bottle and cork tightly. The wholeto be a cold pro- 
cess. — Miss Kate Spears. 

EGG NOG. 

Six eggs, beaten separately ; one pound of sugar, two pints 
of rich cream, one pint of whisky, one half pint of Jamaica 
rum ; beat the yelks well ; mix sugar and whisky together ; 
whip the cream ; add whites of eggs, and cream last. Reserve 
a little whisky and cream for next morning. It is best made 
over night. — Mrs. Jonathan Owen. 

EGG NOG. 

Beat the yellows of two dozen eggs very light, stir in as much 
white sugar as they dissolve, pour in two glasses brandy gradu- 
ally, to cook the eggs ; two glasses old whisky, one of peach 
brandy, two nutmegs, three quarts rich milk ; beat whites to a 
fi-oth and stir in last. 



BEVERAGES. 143 



PORTER SODA. 

Dissolve six pounds of sugar in a quart of water, add a bottle 
of jporter ; let it simmer slowly ; dissolve four ounces of tartaric 
acid in a tumblerful of water, stir it in just before the syrup is 
taken off the fire. 

CURRANT SHRUB. 

The currants should be very ripe ; squeeze them ; to each 
quart one pound sugar; put the currants into a kettle, boil ten 
minutes, skimming well ; when cold, allow one gill of brandy to 
each quart of juice. Bottle and set away, sealing the corks. 
It improves by keeping. — Mrs. Henry Buchner. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Six pounds of refined sugar, four ounces of tartaric acid, two 
quarts of water ; when warm, add the whites of four egf,s, 
beaten to a stiff froth ; be careful not to let it come to a boil. 
When cold, strain, and add one table-spoonful of lemon acid 

Directions for Use. — Two table-spoonfuls of the above syrap 
to a glass filled two thirds fuU of water ; add a small quantity 
of carbonate of soda ; stir until it effervesces. This makea a 
delicious summer drink. — Miss Kate Spears. 

BLACKBERRY VINEGAR. 

One gallon of fresh berries, washed and picked ; pour over 
them a half gallon of good cider vinegar; let stand twenty-lour 
hours ; then strain. To each pint of juice add three fourths of 
a pound of sugar ; boil half an hour, and skim carefully. When 
cold, bottle, and cork lightly. When used, pour the depth of an 
inch in the glass ; fill with water, pounded ice, and season with 
nutmeg. This is a temperance drink. — Mrs. E. McCamey. 

BEER. 

Two quarts of wheat bran, two and a half gallons of water, 
a few hops, one pint of molasses, and one pint of yeast. — Mist 
Kate spears. 



144 BEVERAGES. 



TO KEEP CIDER SWEET. 

When fermentation begins, draw the cider off, and rinse the 
barrel ; strain through a flannel cloth and return. Put into one 
pint of alcohol, one fourth ounce of oil of sassafras and one fourth 
of an ounce of wintergreen. Shake well and put in the cider, 
— Mrs. Dam. 

CHAMPAGNE CIDER. 

Let the cider from good, sound apples ferment until palatable ; 
then draw off into a clean barrel, and add quarter of an ounce of 
sulphate of lime to every gallon of cider. Mix the sulphate in 
a bucket of cider, return to the barrel and shake well. Let 
stand until clear, when it is fit for use. — Mrs. Davis. 

APPLE WINE. 

Tate cider, fresh from the press, and to each gallon add two 
pounds of good brown sugar ; after dissolving the sugar, strain 
it and put in a new cask (one that had held brandy or whisky 
should not be used) ; tack a piece of muslin or perforated tin 
over the bung, and let it thus stand for one week. After this, 
put in the cork lightly and let it remain thus two weeks longer, 
then fasten it tightly, to exclude the air. The vessel should not 
be filled — at least one eighth of the space should be left. It is 
not fit for use" under two or three months ; then it should be 
drawn off, bottled, and sealed. This recipe makes wine equal to 
catawba. — Eev. D. P. Young. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

To twelve pounds of peaches add six pounds of sugar; sprin- 
kle it over the fruit ; let remain six hours, then boil with the 
sugar until the fruit is tender ; put in one ounce of peach ker- 
nels ; boil with the fruit ; when cold, put in peach brandy.- 
Mrs. Dudley. 

CURRANT WINE. 

One quart of currant juice, two quarts of water; add to each 
gallon of this mixture three pounds of nice, dry, brown sugar. 



BEVEEAGES. 145 

Pour water over the skins and seeds that have been squeezed ; 
strain this ; measure, and add to the currant juice. Do not fill 
the barrel. Leave the bung out until the wine has ceased fer. 
menting ; cover the hole with a piece of net, to keep out flies. — i 
Mrs. J. Mowcrton. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 
Take fine, large freestone peaches, quite ripe ; put them into a 
pan containing a weak solution of saleratus and water ; let them 
lie in it until upon trial the fuzz can be easily rubbed oflf with a 
coarse towel. To each pound of peaches allow a pound of loaf 
sugar ; have ready large glasa jars with tight-fitting covers, in 
which place a layer of peaches, having first a layer of sugar in 
the bottom of each jar, and so on, alternately, until the jar is 
nearly full, the upper layer being of sugar ; then pour in the 
best white brandy until the jars are filled ; cover them closely, 
and set in a flat-bottomed kettle of cold water (the water must 
be a little below the top of the jars) ; place the kettle on the fire, 
the jars remaining until the peaches boil ; then set away ; cover 
closely. — Mrs. McCamey. 

PINE-APPLE SYRUP. 

One quart of syrup, boil until it balls ; add to this one pint 
pine-apple juice ; let it boil ; remove the scum and bottle. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP. 

One quart syrup, one pint juice ; prepare as the above recipe. 
Strawberry syrup can be made in the same manner, taking care 
to strain through a flannel bag, to remove sediment and seed. 

ORANGE AND LEMON SYRUP. 

One pint juice, two pounds sugar ; grate ofi" the rind and 
mix with the juice ; boil and strain through a flannel bag ; bot- 
tle when cool. 

ESSENCE OF LEMON. 

Pare or grate the rinds ; put them into a bottle, and cover 
with alcohol ; cork tightly, and in fourteen days it will be ready 
for use. Orange essence made in same way. 



146 BEVERAGES. 



TEA. 

One heaping tea-spoonful of green tea is sufficient for two 
cups. The water for making it should be boiled quickly. The 
tea-pot should be scalded well with the boiling water, and a cup- 
ful of the water poured upon the tea, and set near the fire to 
draw. In five or ten minutes, pour on another cupful of water. 
This tea will be very strong ; persons liking it weaker can easily 
add more boiling water. Black tea should be boiled, and more 
of it used than in the case of green tea, which should never be 
allowed to boil. A mixture of black and green tea is most 
pleasant to the taste. 

TO MAKE GOOD TEA. 

First procure a good article of tea. Be sure the water is boil- 
ing ; heat the tea-pot by rinsing it out with boiling water ; put 
the tea in the pot and pour on all the boiling water at one time ; 
steep over boiling water or on a warm stove, but avoid boiling 
the infusion. All teas are impaired by boiling. The weight of 
a silver dime will make three cups of tea as strong as should be 
used ; if made too strong the flavor will be obscured. Always 
use a china or stone tea-pot. Tannin, always present in the tea, 
readily combines with metals, hence metallic tea- pots neutralize 
the flavor of tea. Connoisseurs usually prefer black tea, and 
take it without milk, but mollified with loaf sugar ; no other 
should be used in tea. — The G-recct Atlaniie and Padfia Tea Go 

CHOCOLATE. 

Allow a heaping table-spoonful of grated or pulverized choco- 
late (made into a paste with a little water) to one pint fresh 
milk ; let it come to a boil, and sweeten to taste. It is some- 
times flavored with cinnamon or nutmeg. — Mrs. Ingles. 

BOILED COFFEE. 

Two heaping table-spoonfuls of ground coffee, one pint of 
boiling water; first mix the coffee with the white of an egg 
and a little cold water; then pour on boiling water and boil 



BEVERAGES. 147 

fifteen minutes. This quantity will make two cupfuls of coffee. 
— Mrs. Martin. 

GOOD COFFEE. 

One coffee-cupful of ground coffee, one egg (yellow and 
■white), beat well ; mix with pint of cold water, and pour into 
the boiler ; pour in two quarts of boiling water ; let all boil 
fifteen minutes ; then set the boiler off and pour in a tea-cupful 
of cold water. — Mrs. NortheuU, 

DRIPPED COFFEE. 

Scald the dripper with boiling water. Put three ounces of 
coffee into the upper division, and pour upon it, at intervals, a 
little boiling water at a J;irae, until one quart has been used, 
placing the dripper where the coffee will be kept perfectly hot, 
without boiling. If the holes of the percolator are so large as 
to allow the water to drip through very quickly, it will be ne- 
cessary to pour it through a second time. It should be used 
with boiling milk, at table, and is usually strong enough, when 
the cup is filled one half or two thirds with boiling milk. 

MILK LEMONADE. 

Peel two lemons very thin ; squeeze the juice over the 
peel, and let it lay all night. In the morning add to it two 
pounds of powdered sugar, a quart of white wine, three 
quarts of fresh milk boiled, hot. Strain it through a jelly 
bag till perfectly clear. Let it stand till quite cold, and you 
will find it a delicious summer beverage. 



148 PRESERVES. 



PRBSBRVBS. 



SWEETMEATS. 

Cut and scrape the melons, lay them in salt and water twen- 
ty-four hours, then soak them in fresh water for one day; put 
them to green in a brass kettle, a layfir of melon, between cab- 
bage or grape leaves, sprinkled with powdered alum. When 
they are sufficiently green, lay them in fresh water for twenty- 
four hours more, then make a weak syrup and boil them, letting 
them stand in it two or three days ; then make a fresh syrup, al- 
lowing two pounds of sugar to every pound of melon ; season 
with ginger. — Miss Spears. 

TO PRESERVE PEACHES. 

To one pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar ; make a 
syrup and skim it weU. When it boils, drop into it the peaches, 
having peeled, seeded and cut them in half. Cook until the 
fruit is soft, but not longer. — Mrs. Jones. 

HONEY. 

Four pounds of white sugar, one pint of water, one tea-spoon- 
ful of alum, one tea-spoonful of alcohol, and-one and one half 
drops of oil of roses. BoH until all are dissolved. — Miss Kale 
Spears. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES. 

To seven pounds of fruit put nine pounds of sugar ; let them 
stand over night with the sugar on. Strain off the syrup next 
morning and boil until jelly; then add the fruit and boil till 
done. — Mrs. Ed. Taylor. 



PRESERVES. Ii9 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Parboil the fruit witli the parings on, then peel and core. Uso 
three pints of the water they are boiled in to two pounds of the 
fruit and two pounds of sugar. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES. 

To one pound of fruit add three quarters of a pound of sugar ; 
set aside till a syrup is formed ; let the syrup be drained, put to 
boil and then drop in the fruit ; boil from seven to ten minutes ; 
then take the fruit out, leaving the syrup to boil longer ; cork 
and seal. 

TO PRESERVE ORANGE PEEL. 

Squeeze the juice and make a syrup of it, soak the peel in 
fresh water, change the water twice a day, as long as the water 
is bitter. Boil in water till a straw can penetratpi it, then take 
a pound of sugar to a pound of peel. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

To fifteen pounds of cling-stone peaches take seven and one 
half pounds sugar ; put two or three quarts of water in a bottle, 
with one tea-spoonful of pearl-ash; let it dissolve thoroughly. 
When the water is hot, throw a few peaches in this preparation ; 
let them remain a few minutes. When taken out, with a coarse 
towel wipe off the skins, and throw them into cold water. To 
half the sugar, with as little water as possible to dissolve it, add 
a layer of peaches and let boil from twenty to thirty minutes; 
then take them out and put on a flat dish to cool ; gradually 
add the rest of sugar. When all are done, boil the syrup till 
it becomes rather thick ; add while in the kettle one half pint 
alcohol, which will cool and thicken it sufficiently to pour over the 
peaches, which must be put into jars. Do not cover tUl next 
day. — Miss EUa Mitchell. 

In preserving peaches, it is better not to peel them. Leave 
the seed in by all means. 



150 PEESERTES. 

TO CLARIFY SUGAR FOR PRESERVING. 

To three pounds sugar add one and one half pints of water, 
and white of one egg ; mix before putting on the stove ; boU a 
few minutes, skimming well ; let stand ten minutes, skim again ; 
then strain it. — Mrs. Jno. Bay. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

Cut the peaches fine and mash to a pulp (they should be per- 
fectly ripe). To one pound of fruit allow three fourths pound 
of white sugar ; . stir in the sugar well and boil, skimming and 
stirring a good deal, to keep it from burning. — Mrs. Jones. 

TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Peel seven pounds tomatoes, add seven pounds sugar, let all 
stand over night; drain off syrup; boil, skimming well. Put in 
tomatoes, boil gently twenty minutes; take out fruit with 
perforated skimmer. Spread on dishes ; boil syrup until it 
thickens, and add, just at the last, juice of three lemons. Put 
fruit in jars, and pour on the hot syrup, and when cold, seal or 
tie up. 

HOW TO MAKE MAPLE SYRUP. 

Add enough water to the sugar to prevent scorching ; when 
it comes to a good boil, break in an egg or two, according to 
the quantity of sugar. To one half gallon of sugar add one 
pint fresh milk; skim well and strain through flannel. — Mrs. 
Simms. 

WILD CRAB PRESERVES. 

Pour boiling water over the fruit, to remove the skin ; push 
the core out with a quill ; one pound of fruit to one pound of 
sugar. Cook some time. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

Let the peaches stand a few hours, with three quarters of a 
pound of sugar to- one of fruit, if the latter be sweet and good ; 
if not, pound to pound. No water. 



PEESEEVES. 151 



STRAWBERRY PRESERVES. 

Let the berries stand a short time after washing and stewing, 
with the sugar over them ; one pound and a quarter to every 
pound of fruit. Boil until little dark. 

RASPBERRY PRESERVES. 

Raspberries should have one pound of sugar to one pound oi 
fruit. Cook well. — Mrs. J. R. Brent. 

CHERRY PRESERVES. 

One pound of sugar to one of fruit ; some of the cherries 
stoned, but not all. Put the sugar to them and let them stand 
before cooking. — Mrs. J. H. Brent. 

PLUM PRESERVES. 

One pound of sugar to one pound of fruit ; make a syrup, and 
put the fruit into it when it begins to boil thick. 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 

After preparing the fruit, boil it in water until quite clear ; 
one pound of sugar to one of fruit, adding just enough water to 
cover the fruit. They require some time to cook. — Mrs. J. H. 
Brent. 

GREEN TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Take green tomatoes, wash and put in rather strong salt 
water ; let them remain twenty-four hours ; wash again and 
wipe dry. To one pound of tomatoes add one pound of su- 
gar ; make a rich syrup, and add tomatoes ; season with raco 

ginger. 

ORANGE PRESERVES. 

Two and a half dozen of oranges make seven pounds of 
fruit. Slice them, leaving rind on some. To three pounds 
of fruit allow one pound of sugar; let stand over night. 
Cook as other fruits. 



152 FOOD FOE SICK — EECIPES. 



FOOO FOR SICK. 



THICKENED MILK. 

Make a powder, by beating the yelk of an egg, to which a 
pinch of salt has been added, very light, and mix it with sifted 
flour, until very stiff; after which, rub between the fingers, 
adding flour until perfectly dry. Continue the rubbing until 
the whole lump is reduced to a powder ; then take as much 
milk as is desired (milk fresh from the cow), and put on the 
fire in a vessel in which it will boil quickly. As soon as it boils 
ihrow on the surface a little of the powder, and let it remain 
there a moment before stirring down ; continue this process 
until it seems thick enough. This is eaten with either 
sugar or salt, and is extremely palatable and nourishing. — Mrs, 
Wiihrow. 

ARROW-ROOT WITH MILK. 

One dessert-spoonful of arrow-root, stirred smoothly into a 
tea cupful of cold milk; have ready, one pint boiling milk, into 
which pour the arrow-root ; continue to stir five or tea mmutes, 
then take from the fire. — Mrs. Cunningham. 

CORN-MEAL GRUEL. 

Three table-spoonfuls of sifted corn-meal, moisten with a little 
cold water ; pour it in a pint of boiling water; stir well; cook 
about ten minutes. * 



FOOD FOE SICK — EECIPES. 153 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

"Wash the tapioca two or three times; soak it five or six 
hours ; let it simmer in the same water with bits of fresh lemon 
peel, until it becomes quite clear ; then put in lemon juice, wine, 
and sugar. Three table-spoonfuls of tapioca to one quart water. 
— Miss Bettie Cooke. 

ARROW ROOT JELLY. 

Put rather more than one pint of water, sweetened with white 
sugar, over the fire ; also, season with brandy and nutmeg ; stir 
one large spoonful of arrow root into a tea-cupful of cold water ; 
pour it in when the water boils ; stir well, and boil four or five 
minutes.' 

SAGO JELLY. 

Two table-spoonfuls sago to one quart of water ; soak in cold 
water one hour, and wash thoroughly ; let simmer with lemon 
peel and a few cloves ; add wine and sugar when nearly done. 

RICE JELLY. 

In preparing rice, pour on boiling water, and, when cool, rub 
it well between the hands several times. To a half pint of rice 
use one quart of boiling water ; continue to add water until the 
liquid looks like starch, and then strain. Cook rapidly.— Jfra. 
MeAboy. 

A PREPARATION FOR THE SICK. 

The white of one egg, three tea-spoonfuls of sugar, half a glass 
of water, half a tea-cupful of cracked ice, a few drops of pepper- 
mint, or a sprig of fresh mint. Throw the ingredients from one 
tumbler into another, till the contents are thoroughly mixed. 

A NOURISHING PREPARATION FOR INFANTS. 

Half a pint of boiling water, three table-spoonfuls of new 
milk, one tea-spoonful of arrow root, a pinch of gelatine (dis- 
solved in a little hot water); mix milk, arrow root and gelatine 



154 POOD FOE SICK — EECrPES. 

together, and pour all into the boiling water. Let it cook a few 
minutes ; take off and sweeten to taste. 

BLACKBERRY JELLY FOR SICKNESS. 

Two quarts blackberry juice, one pound loaf sugar, half an 
ounce nutmegs, half an ounce cloves, half an ounce cinnamon, 
half an ounce allspice. Pulverize the spices, if whole ; boil all 
fifteen or twenty minutes. When cold, add one pint of brandy. 
— Miss EUa Mitchell. 

BEEF TEA. 

Cattwopoundsof gravy beef into thin slices, and put it into 
ajar with two pints and a half of water, with a pinch of salt. 
Cover and set in a warm oven for three or four hours. Strain 
it through a fine seive and set aside in a cool place. Warm a 
small quantity when required for use. 

WINE JELLY. 

Put one ounce of isinglass and one ounce of sugar into a 
quarter of a pint of water. Set it over the fire till the isin- 
glass is dissolved; then add one pint of port or sherry wine. 
Strain it through a jelly bag, or a clean piece of muslin, into 
a jar or mold, and let it set. It is best to put it in a jar, to 
cover till cold, and give a piece .about the size of a walnut two 
or three times a day to the patient. 



EEMEDIES — EECBPEa. 156 



RBMKOIHS. 



A GOOD SALVE. 

Three pounds cleaned rosin, quarter pound Burgundy pitch, 
quarter pound beeswax. Melt slowly, with care ; then add half 
an ounce of red pepper, one ounce of camphor, one ounce sweet 
oil, two ounces oil of sassafras. Stir all well together ; pour all 
into a large tub of cold water, and pull until white 

TO CURE A FELON. 

As soon as the part afflicted begins to swell, wrap with cloth 
thoroughly saturated with lobelia. 

EXCELLENT BITTERS. 

Half a gallon of old whisky, one ounce gum aloes, one ounce 
rhubarb, half an ounce senna leaves, two drachms gum foetida. 
— Mrs. Ingles. 

A CURE FOR RHEUMATISM. 

Three ounces chloroform, four ounces alcohol, five ounces 
ether ; mix the chloroform and ether first, and in fifteen minutes 
add the alcohol ; then pour on a damp cloth and apply. 

ANTIDOTE FOR POISON. 

Mix a dessert::spoonful of mustard in a glass of warm water, 
and drink it immediately. Melted lard and sweet milk are also 
antidote-s. 

FOR FLESH BRUISES. 

Hub Tell with lard, and bind rather tightly. 



156 REMEDIES EECIPES. 



A VERY FINE LIP SALVE. 

Take one tea-cupful of fresh butter just from the churn, and 
half a pound of beeswax ; mix -well and boil until dissolved ; 
strain and put into something to mould it in shape. This salve 
cures the worst chapped hands and lips in one night. 

POISON OAK CURE. 

Bathe the affected parts, long and well, in sulphur and cream ; 
in half an hour wash well in salt water. Repeat twice a day. 
Three or four applications will cure. — Mrs. George Davis. 

BREAST OINTMENT. 
•One gill old whisky, old butter the size of a walnut, beeswax 
the size of a partridge egg, one tea-spoonful of black pepper ; 
steW until the whisky evaporates; spread on a cloth and sprinkle* 
black pepper thickly over it. 

LEMON FOR A COUGH. 

Roast a lemon very carefully, without burning it ; when hot 
through, cut and squeeze in a cup, and sweeten to taste.. 
When the cough is troublesome, take a dessert-spoonful. It 
gives great relief. 

A FINE RECIPE FOR A COUGH. 

Boil flaxseed in water until it becomes slimy, then strain and 
sweeten with rock . candy, powdered as fine as possible ; season 
with the juice of fresh lemons. Take a wine-glassful whenever 
the cough is troublesome. 

REMEDY FOR SPRAINS. 

Take the root of the black locust tree and wash well, then 
scrape off the skin and pound it until it is well mashed ; pour 
on enough strong vinegar to make it the consistency of mush, 
and apply with bandages to the sprained part. The mush 
should be kept damp, or be renewed at intervals of three or four 
hours. 

SCALDS OR BURNS. 

If a scald or burn is not deeper than the outer skin, make an 
ointment of sulphur and lard, stiff enough to spread on a cloth. 
—Dr. Hall. 



EEMEDIES — RECIPES. 167 



POISONOUS VINES. 

If poisoned by vines, make a paste of sulphur or gunpowder 
and milk. Apply night and morning until cured. — Dr. Hall. 

RELIEF FOR NEURALGIA. 

Apply to the part affected the oil of peppermint ; saturate a 
piece of raw cotton with it, and rub very gently till the skin 
burns. It frequently relieves pain when everything else fails. 

FOR A COLD IN THE HEAD. 

Inhale spirits of ammonia every few minutes until the head 
is clear. 

FOR EAR-ACHE. 

Saturate a piece of raw cotton with arnica, or put a few drops 
(warmed a little) into the ear. Sweet oil used in the same way 
is another remedy. 

REMEDY FOR BRUISES. 
Take fresh beef, pound quite thin, and bind it on the bruise. 

LIP SALVE. 
Take equal quantities of fresh butter, with no salt in it, and 
yellow beeswax ; melt and stir together. 

EYE WATER. 

Take one egg, boil hard, cut open and remove the yelk ; fill 
one cavity with pulverized sugar, the other with pulverized 
alum ; put the two parts together, put the whole in a cloth and 
squeeze out all the juice. — Mrs. Bruce, Carlisle. 

REMEDY FOR INFLAMED EYES. 

Take double-refined white sugar, pound it and sift through a 
piece of muslin ; boil an egg hard, and cut in two lengthwise, 
taking out the yelk. Put these whites in boiling water ; dust 
a very small quantity of the sugar on the eye-ball, and place 
the steaming cup over the entire eye. Repeat three times a day. 
— Mm Florence Skort. 



158 EEMEDIES — RECIPES. 

SALVE FOR BURNS. 

Yelk of one egg beaten until smooth, piece of alum the size 
of a pea, pulverized very fine, mixed with lard enough to make 
consistent. — Mrs. J. 3. Brent. 

AN EFFICIENT APERIENT. 

One pound of figs chopped fine, one pound strained honey, 
half pound senna, rubbed fine and sifted. 

CURE FOR DYSPEPSIA, 

Two ounces ladies' slipper root, two ounces balm ofGilead, one 
ounce red percoon, two ounces gum turpentine ; add three pints 
fourth proof brandy ; let stand a few days before using. Dose, 
one tea-spoonful three times a day before meals. — G. Ttieker, 

A GOOD SHAMPOO. 

Two ounces salts of tartar, one ounce ammonia, one ounce 
bay rum. Put the salts of tartar in a bottle, pour on one 
quart of soft water, shake well, then add ammonia and bay 
rum. 

COLIC IN HORSES. 

Tea-spoonful of tartar en^etic, same of powdered nux vom- 
ica, one and one-half ounces of laudanum. Mix in a pint 
of whisky, and drench. — Willis Goodman, Jr. 

COLD CREAM. 

Melt three drachms of white wax, the same quantity of 
spermaceti, with four ounces of the oil of almonds. Beat 
them all up, adding a half a pint of rosewater gradually uni.il 
it is cold. Put it in a jar and pour a little rosewater over it. 



SOAP RECIPES. 159 



SOAPS. 



POTASH SOAP. 

To one pound of potash and two pounds of grease allow three 
gallons of water. Soak the potash in the water twenty-four 
hours, or boil until dissolved ; then add the grease, and boil un- 
til it thickens. — Mrs. Geo. Davis. 

SOAP. 

Six gallons of rain water, two and a half pounds of bar soap, 
shaved fine, two pounds of sal soda, six ounces of borax. Put 
the water on the fire with the above ingredients, and bring it to 
a boiling heat, when it is ready for use. — Miss Kate Spears. 

SOAP. 

To four gallons of soft water add three pounds of soda ash, 
one and one half pounds of lime ; boil one hour and a half. 
Let the liquid stand until it can be poured ofi" clear ; then add 
six pounds of grease. Bod it two hours and a half, and let it 
get hard in the kettle, then cut out in blocks and let dry.— Miss 
Kate Shears. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Put the aahes in barrels, or a hopper, which is better. Pour 
water on every day ; drain it off, and if not strong enough, pour 
it back, or boil down till strong. Put straw in the barrels first, 
then pack ashes in ; when the lye is strong enough to strip a 
feather, put in grease until the lye ceases to absorb it. Cook 
until the soap looks thick. — Mrs. H. Brent. 



160 SOAP EECIPES. 



SODA-ASH SOAP. 

Ten pounds of soda-ash, five pounds of new lime, sifted ; boil 
in ten gallons of rain water for ten minutes, add twenty-five 
pounds of clear grease and boil two Lours ; let stand until cold 
and cut out. — Mrs. Geo. Davis. 

WINTER SOAP FOR CHAPPED HANDS, 

Beat three pounds of yellow soap, and one ounce of cam- 
phor dissolved in one ounce of rose and one ounce of lavender 
water, in a mortar until thoroughly mixed. Make it into 
balls to dry, and set it in a cool place for the winter. 



MISCELLAiraOUS EECIPKS. 161 



MISCB]L.I;iAHBOCrS. 



POLISH FOR GRATES, OR TO PAINT BRICK HEARTHS. 

Take two or three spoonfuls of lamp black and make it into a 
Bmooth paste, with spirits of turpentine; then add copal 
varnish until the mixture is sufficiently thin to apply with a 
brush. This painting keeps very nice for a long time, by wiping 
it off frequently with weak, tepid suds. — Beo. D. P. Young. 

TO MAKE SOAP. 

One and one half pounds unslacked lime, three pounds soda 
ash, seven gallons lye or rain water ; boil all fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Pour off the lye clear, add seven pounds of grease ; 
boil two hours, or until done. Splendid soft soap. — Mrs. Taylor. 

A FINE WASH FOR THE HAIR. 

Dissolve in one quart of boiling water, one ounce borax, one 
half ounce of camphor. The ingredients should be finely pow- 
dered. 

FOR CLEANSING LACES. 

Pour a little pure and clear alcohol in a china bowl, or other' 
deep, vessel that can be covered to prevent evaporation, into which 
place the lace that is to be cleaned. Leave it some time, until 
tl'.e dirt has softened and settled at the bottom. Then, with per- 
fectly clean fingers, rub the lace gently in the liquid, until the 
stains shall have disappeared. If they can not be removed in 
this way, let soak longer. After the rubbing, squeeze the lace 



162 MISCELLANEOUS EECIPES. 

as dry as possible and roll in a clean towel. Take one piece at a 
time while damp, and pick it open with the iingers, pulling out 
the edge very carefully with the nails. If one can take the 
the time to open each little hole on the edge, with a pin, it wiU 
have much the appearance of new lace. It should be kept 
damp while handling it. When the meshes are all opened, lay 
the lace between the leaves of a book and press till entirely dry, 
taking care to fold in and out among the leaves, so as not to be 
double at any point. Sometimes lace is so much soiled as to re- 
quire a gentle rubbing in soap-suds, before using the alcohol. 
In such case, do not rinse it. Black lace can be beautifully 
renovated by the above process. — Mrs. Wilhrow, Danville, Ky. 

WHITEWASH, CALLED PARIS WHITE. 

Sixteen pounds of Paris white, one half pound transparent 
glue. Cover the glue with cold water at night; next morning, 
carefully heat it, without scorching, until the glue is dissolved. 
The Paris white is stirred into hot water, until it is the con- 
sistency of milk, and then the dissolved glue is added to it. 

ITEMS. 

One tea-spoonful of vinegar in a pint of limestone water, will 
antagonize aU its iU effects upon the bowels of those who are 
unaccustomed to it. — Dr. Hall. 

As much powdered alum as wiU rest on a dime, stirred in a 
pail of water, wUl clear it in five minutes. — Dr. Hall. 

A FINE WASH FOR THE SKIN. 

Put two table-spoonfuls of ammonia in a basin of water. — Dr. 
Hall. 

ITEMS. 

To keep oranges, lemons, and apples, wrap close in paper, 
keep in a dry, cool place. — Dr. Hall. 
Thaw frozen fruit and vegetables in cold water. — Dr. Hall. 

Cranberries covered with water, will keep for mouths in a 
cellar. — Dr. Hall, 



MISCELLANEOUS EECIPE3. 163 

FOR PACKING BUTTER. 

In one gallon of water boil two quarts of salt until dissolved, 
then add one ounce of sugar and one ounce of saltpetre. 

FOR PACKING BUTTER. 

Work the butter until entirely free from milk ; pack very 
iighdy (in stone jars), in layers of about three inches in thick- 
ness ; cover the whole with two inches of salt. — Mrs. Frank 
Bedford. 

BRINE FOR BUTTER. 

Three poimds of salt, six quarts of water, one pound of salt- 
petre, one pound and a half of loaf sugar. Mix aU the ingre- 
dients and pour the water on them while boiling ; let it settle 
and cool; then strain through a coarse, thick cloth, to remove 
impurities. Wrap each roU of butter in a separate cloth, put 
into a jar, and pour over it this brine when entirely cold. — 
Mrs. A. Tumey, Jr. 

BRINE FOR BUTTER. 

Make brine strong enough to bear an egg ; add a half pound 
of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of soda to each gallon ; strain, 
and pour it over the butter, which must be rolled in cloth, and 
kept under the brine. 

AMERICAN CEMENT. 
One pound of white glue, one pound of white lead, one pin< 
of alcohol, one pint of rain water. In a tin dish, over the stove, 
put the water, alcohol, and glue, until the latter is dissolved; 
then add the lead; stir until it is the consistency of cream.— 
Mrs. Northcott. 

SETTING COLORS WITH SUGAR OF LEAD. 
Dissolve one table-spoonful of lead in two gallons of water ; 
put the goods in and let stand all night. 

BLEACHING WITH CHLORIDE OF LIME. 

Dissolve one tea-cupful of lime in three gallons of water; let 
stand tiU the water becomes clear; strain carefully; put the 



164 MISCELLANEOUS EECIPES. 

!l 

goods to soak at night ; in the morning rub the stains ; if they 
are effaced, rinse thoroughly before washing. "Where the stains 
are very deep, it may require being soaked a longer time in a 
little stronger mixture. 

TO CLEAN BLACK SILK. 

One tea-spoonful ammonia, one tea-spoonful turpentine in one 
pint of warm water ; sponge the silk on the right side, and 
iron on the wrong. — Mrs. Johnson. 

TO CLEAN BLACK SILK. 
Boil an old black kid glove in a quart of water until it boils 
down to one pint. 

HOW TO SET THE COLOR IN BLUE OR GREEN CALICO. 

One tea-spoonful of turpentine, one tea-spoonful of hartshorn; 
put in the quantity of water required to wash a dress. 

WORTH KNOWING. 

One pound green copperas dissolved in one quart of water 
will utterly destroy aU offensive odors. 

Ink stains should be immediately dipped in new, sweet milk. 

The sting of insects can be cured by i^ing a paste of soda and 
water. A little powdered indigo mixed with water to a paste 
is also very good. 

A brass kettle should always be cleaned with a little salt and 
vinegar before using it. 

TO RENOVATE CRAPE VEILS. 

Take two towels and dampen them thoroughly, spread one of 
them out and put the veil on it, having first folded it in a square ; 
then place the other damp towel on top, and roll all smoothly ; 
let it remain about half an hour, or until quite damp; then 
take out of the towel, and spread lengthwise to dry. 

TO CLEAN CARPETS. 

One pint of alcohol, one half pint of ammonia ; put enough 
in a small basin of water to feel sleek and to smell of it. The 



MKCELLANEOUS EECIPES. 165 

water must be changed several times, as it becomes very dirty. 
Use a scrubbing brush; have a clean, dry towel to wipe oflf. — 
Mrs. Mollie Webb. 

TO GLAZE SHIRT BOSOMS. 
To every quart of starch add a tea-spoonful of salt and one 
of white soap, scraped iine ; boil the starch (after adding hot 
water) until as thick as you wish. — Miss E. Mitchell. 

TO EXTRACT INK FROM COLORED ARTICLES. 
Drop tallow on the stains, and then soak and rub the same 
with boiling milk. 

TO KEEP EGGS FOR WINTER USE. 

One pint of hme, one pint of salt, three gallons of water. 

TO REMOVE STAINS FROM MARBLE. 

Apply oxalic acid diluted with water, and rub weU. If the 
marble is only slightly stained, it need not be very strong. 

TO CLEAN STAIR RODS. 

Dip a cloth in coal oU, then in flour of emery, and rub 
well ; then rub ofif with another cloth or a piece of paper. 

INK. 

Put two ounces extract of logwood, well pulverized, into a gal- 
lon of rain water ; let it come to a boU, stirring it well aU the time. 
When cold, add sixty grains of bichromate of potash ; again 
starring ; when cold, it is ready for use. The vessel which it ia 
boiled in must be entirely free from grease. — Mrs. Ingles. 

PRESERVING BUTTER. 
Two quarts of salt, one ounce of sugar, one ounce saltpetre, 
eighteen pounds of butter ; work well in a mass and close it for 
nse. Let it stand one month before usiug. — Miss Kate Spears. 

TO PREVENT CALICOES FROM FADING. 

Put three giUs of salt in four quarts of boiling water ; put 



166 MISCELLAITEOITS EECIPES. 

the dresses in while hot, and leave until cold ; in this way the 
colors are rendered permanent. 

WASHING CLOTHES. 

Take one pound of washing soda, ten ounces of fresh lime to 
pour over it, one gallon of boiling water ; stir well ; when cold, 
bottle for use. 

To a large boUer of water, put one and a half pints of the 
above, the fourth of a bar of soap. Take the clothes out of the 
tub, where they have been soaking all night, and put them into 
the boiler. Pound them often. When well boUed, put in more 
clothes ; then wash well, and scald them in the first rinsing water ; 
rinse them in this and one other water. The recipe washes 
calico beautifully, but it must not be allowed to remain long in 
the water. 

A laundress gives the following recipe for doing up coUars, 
cufis, shirt bosoms, etc. : Four ounces of white gum arable, 
pounded fine ; put into a bottle and pour over it one quart of 
water, cork tightly and let stand all night. Pour it ofi" carefully 
the next morning into another clean bottle; keep it well 
corked. In using this, stir to two pints of fine starch two 
table-spoonfuls of this gum arable water. This is very fine for 
washing white dresses and colored lawns. 

A NICE PAINT FOR PAVEMENT. 
One gallon of flour paste, not very thick, two pounds of 
Venetian red ; mix this thoroughly and apply to the pavement 
with a whitewash brush. 

SEALING WAX. 

Two ounces gum shellac, ten ounces resin, one ounce white 
chalk ; boil aU this slowly untU dissolved. — Mrs. A. Turney, Jr. 

TO FRESHEN GRENADINE. 
Take one table-spoonful of powdered borax to one quart of 
water, and let it dissolve. Sponge the grenadine on the wrong 
side, and press while damp. — Mrs. Arms Turney, Jr. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 167 

TO TAKE MARKS OFF FURNITURE. 

Wtite spots can be removed from varnished furniture, and 
rendered glossy, by applying alcohol with a sponge. It has 
nearly, if not quite, the effect of varnish and is much cheaper. 

SEALING WAX. 

Four cimces rosin, one ounce beeswax, one ounce Spanish 
brown, one tea-spoonful of plaster of Paris. 

MUCILAGE. 
Dissolve four ounces of powdered gum arable in a pint of boil- 
ing water. 

HAIR OIL. 

Six ounces castor oil, two ounces cantharides, two ounces 
alcohol, one ounce bergamot. 

MATTING. 
Wash matting in salt and water to preserve it from turning 
dark. 

SAPOLIO. 

Sapolio is superior for cleansing marble stands and bureau 
tops. Dip an old tooth-brush in hot water, and with it make 
a lather of the sapolio (which can be purchased at any of the 
apothecaries). Eub hard and rinse in clean, cold water. 

TO TAKE OUT MILDEW. 

Get the driest chloride of lime, and for strong fabrics dissolve 
four table^poonfuls of this in one half pint of water. Let the mil- 
dewed article lie in this solution fifteen minutes ; take out and 
work gently, and put at once in weak muriatic acid (one part 
acid and four parts soft water) ; for delicate fabrics the solution 
of lime should be made weaker — three or four times the quantity 
of water should be put to the lime. Let the article remain 
in five minutes, and then pour into the muriatic acid. 

A PRETTY EXPERIMENT. 
An acorn suspended by a thread, within half an inch of the 
water in a hyacinth glass, will in a few months burst and throw 



168 MISCEIXAlTEOUa RECIPES. 

out a root, and shoot upward with straight and tapering stems, 
covered with beautiful green leaves. 

VIRGINIA BRUNSWICK STEW. 

For a large family three gallons of water, to which add two 
chickens, which have been cut up, and one pound of fat bacon. 
The bacon must be cut up very fine before putting it in the 
water. As soon as the chickens are sufficiently cooked for the 
meat to leave the bones, take them out, and separate the meat 
from the bones. Return the meat to the water, then add half 
a gallon of Irish potatoes which have been boiled and mashed, 
one and a half pints of green corn cut off, one pint of green 
butter beans, one quart of tomatoes which have been skinned, 
and a good sized loaf of light bread. Season with black and 
red pepper, salt and butter. The bread must not be put in 
until the stew is nearly done. As soon as it begins to thicken 
it must be constantly stirred until it is done. If it should be too 
thick, add more water. Much depends on the judgment of the 
person who makes it. When properly made, no one is able to 
detect any of the ingredients. Squirrels are a very good sub- 
stitute for chickens. — Baker Blanton, FarmviUe, Va. 



adde:n^da. 

CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Stew three chickens until thoroughly cooked ; remove the 
chicken from the liquor, placing it in a baking dish ; make a 
batter of flour, sweet milk, one table-spoonful of butter, and 
three eggs beatea separately ; when well beaten, pour the 
batter over the chicken, and bake one hour. Serve with a 
sauce made of the liquor in which the chicken was stewed, 
thickened with flour. Butter, salt, and pepper to taste. — Mrs. 
Bennett H. Yoking, Louisville. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 169 



FRENCH STEWED OYSTERS. 

Fifty large oysters set over the fire in their liquor, skim- 
mirig well ; -when they begin to simmer, take them out with 
a perforated ladle, and throw into cold water to plump 
them. When cold, place them in wine, then drain them. 
Add to the liquor one-half pound of butter, divided in four 
pieces, each well rolled in flour, one-half dozen blades of 
mace, one half nutmeg grated, one salt-spoon cayenne pep- 
per. Stir until the butter is melted and well mixed. Then 
put in the oysters ; as soon as they come to a boil, take off 
and stir in the j-elks of three eggs well beaten. Serve hot. — 
Mrs. Allen Bashford. 

FRIED TRIPE. 

Prepare as for stewing. Cut into pieces about three inches 
square ; season with salt and pepper ; dip pieces in nice flour 
batter, and fry in boiling lard. Tripe can be kept some 
time, by placing it in a jar and covering with vinegar. — 
Mrs. Martin. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One egg, one table-spoonful of molasses, one pint butter- 
milk, a tea-spoonful of soda, flour enough for a stiff batter. 
Bake as corn egg bread. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One pint scalded meal, three well-beaten eggs, one tea 
spoon salt, lard size of a walnut, one tea-cup milk. Let meal 
cool, stir in eggs, milk and lard. — Mrs. P. Miller, Michmond. 
Ky. 

ANGEL'S FOOD. (Cake.) 

"Whites twelve eggs, ten ounces of icing sugar, three and 
one half ounces flour, one tea-spoon of vanilla, one tea-spoon 
of cream tartar. Sift flour five times, add cream tartar and 
sift again. Sift sugar three times. Beat the eggs very stiff, 
add sugar, then vanilla, and last the flour, stirred in very 
lightly. Bake fifty or sixty minutes, and when done do not 



170 MISCELLANEOUS. 



take it oat of the mold until cold. The mold should be 
greased only on the bottom, and when taken out of the stove 
it must be turned upside down on something which will allow 
the air to get to the cake. Let it remain until cold. 

ALMOND FILLING FOR CAKE. 

One coffee-cup sour cream, one-half cup sugar, two eggs 
beaten slightly. Cook until' thick. When custard becomes 
cool, add one pint blanched aknonds powdered or grated. — 
Mrs. Thomas I. Brent. 

HOG'S BRAINS. 

Take the brains from two heads ; wash and soak over night 
in salt water ; wash in fresh water and put in a frying-pan 
with salt and pepper; cover with hot water and stew till done. 
Just before serving stir in two eggs well beaten, and a table- 
spoonful each of butter and cream. Serve hot. — Mrs. Jno. 
Hanly. 

FRIED BRAINS. 

Wash and soak as for stewed ; mix with finely powdered 
bread crumbs ; make into patties and fry in boiling lard until 
brown. — Mrs. J. H. Brent. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Boil two or more hog's heads till tender ; save the liquor. 
When heads are cold remove grease and cut into small pieces. 
Eeturn meat and liquor to the vessel and stir in equal por- 
tions of meal and flour, until the consistency of mush. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Boil several minutes, stirring all 
the while. Mold in pans. When cold, cut into slices, roll 
in corn meal, and fry in boiling lard. — Mrs. Mary P. Durrett. 

TO DEVIL TURKEY. 

Mix a little salt, black and cayenne pepper ; sprinkle over 
the gizzard, rump, and drum-sticks of a dressed turkey ; boil 
them and serve hot with a sauce made of some of the gravy, 



MISCELLANEOUS. 171 



with a little mixed mustard, butter, and flour, and a spoonful 

of lemon juice. 

STEWED SWEET BREADS. 

Stew the breads whole until perfectly tender but not broken. 

Serve with a sauce of drawn butter, a little cream, tomato 

catsup, pepper and salt poured over them. — Mrs. Martin. 

STEWED SWEET BREADS WITH PEAS. 

Eemove the skin and fat from the breads; put them in salt 
water a few minutes ; cut in small square pieces ; par-boil till 
nearly done. Boil the peas in water with a little salt ; when 
done, place in a dish with the breads. Thicken a little of the 
pea liquor with flour; season with cream, butter, pepper, and 
salt ; stew together and pour over the dish. — Mrs. J. H. Brent. 

FRIED SWEET BREADS WITH PEAS. 
Prepare as for stewing, but do not cut them up. Make bat- 
ter as for wafles ; dip breads in batter ; fry a light brown in 
lard. Put them on a dish and pour on peas prepared as for 
stewed. — Mrs. J. S. Brent. 

CROQUETTS. EXCELLENT. 

One-half pound of butter; three-fourths of a pound of bread 
crumbs ; five eggs, well beaten togetiier ; one tea-spoonful of 
parsley chopped very fine; one-half pint of sweet cream; one 
tea-spoonful of onions chopped fine; one nutmeg, grated ; little 
mace (pulverized) ; cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Mix 
well together, put on the fire and cook, stirring all the time. 
Then let it cool, and add one pound of chicken or ham, chopped 
very fine; juice of one-half lemon. Make in shape of pears, 
and dip quickly in the white of an egg (not beaten). Eoll in 
grated crackers and fry a nice brown. 

DRIED BEEF. 

Take the bone out of a beef ham ; salt down one-third in 
sugar, balance in salt. Let it remain in salt a week or ten 



172 MISCELLANEOTTS. 



days; then hang up and rub with salt, sugar, and molassea 
each morning for a week. Smoke until cured. — Mrs. S. P. 
Walters, Richmond, Ky. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Crumble one and one-half pints of stale bread, pour over 
it one quart morning's milk, four eggs beaten until light, two 
table-spoonfuls of cinnamon, and one of allspice. Mix thor- 
ougbly, and bake rather slowly until pretty dry. Serve with 
following sauce : One table-spoonful of flour, a piece of but- 
ter about size of hen's egg, pint and one-half of white sugar, 
enough water to dissolve well ; cooked until thick, and sea- 
soned with fresh lemon, good whisky, or pure wine (last pre- 
ferred), put in just as sauce is taken off the fire. — Mrs. J. H. 
Brent. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

Light part of cake. — One and one-half cups of sugar, one- 
half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, two and one- 
half cups of flour, four whites of eggs, one tea-spoon of bak- 
ing powder. 

Dark part of cake. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup of mo- 
lasses, one-half cup of sour milk, one-half cup of butter, one 
tea,-spoon of soda, four yelks of eggs, one table-spoon of cin- 
namon, one tea-spoon of allspice, one tea-spoon of cloves, one 
table-spoon of ginger, one and one-half pounds of raisins, two 
and one-half cups of flour. The raisins can be left out if de- 
sired. Use jelly pans for baking. In stacking, place alter- 
nately, black and white, with icing between each layer of 
cake. Ice top and sides. -ilfrs. Judge Turney. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

One and one-third cup new milk, one table-spoon corn starch 
yelks four eggs, one cup sugar, of which make a stiff custard. 
Cut six oranges in small bits ; cover them with one-half cup 
of sugar ; let it stand till custard is cool, then put in oranges. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 173 



Place a layer of sponge cake in the pan, pour on orange cus- 
tard, with alternate layers of cake, until nearly full ; cover 
with meringue, and bake until a light brown. — Mrs. Thos. 
1. Brent. 

MUNCEY PUDDING. 
Cover the bottom of a well-buttered baking dish with a 
thin layer of grated bread crumbs, and spread that with small 
lumps of butter, about an inch or two apart, then a layer of 
finely minced apple and a layer of sugar, thickly sprinkled 
with ground cinnamon and allspice, letting the cinnamon pre- 
dominate, then anotherlayer of bread crumbs and butter, and 
80 on till the mold is filled, letting the bread and butter form 
the top layer. If the jjan has been well buttered it will turn 
out nicely. Eaisins are a great improvement, but not neces- 
sary. Serve with rich wine sauce. — Mrs. R. Douglass. 

BOILED PUDDING. 
One-half tea-cup suet, one cup raisins, two cups flour, 
one of new milk, one cup molasses, one tea-spoon soda. 
Seed raisins and chop suet fine. Put into a mold or bag 
and boil two hours. Serve with rich sauce. 

QUAKING PUDDING. 

Cut slices of light bread, spread thinly with butter. Have 
ready, raisins boiled a few minutes. Put into the baking 
dish a layer of bread, and then one of raisins, which repeat 
until within an inch of top of dish. To five eggs, well beaten, 
add one quart of milk ; pour over pudding. Plavor to taste. 
Bake one-half hour. Serve with sauce. 

CANADA CHEESE CAKE. 

One-half pound of cheese, chopped fine; quarter pound of 
grated crackers; one pint new milk; pinch of salt; tea-spoon- 
ful of sugar; lump of butter size of a hen's egg. Heat 
through thoroughly. , After cooling, beat four eggs together, 



174 MISCELLANEOUS. 



and put in. Place in pan, and bake like ordinary pudding. 
Serve hot or cold. A nice tea dish. — Mrs. Thos. I. Brent. 

METROPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

One-half gallon rich cream, color with chocolate, flavor 
with vanilla to taste ; one-half gallon cream, color with coch- 
ineal, flavor with rose; one-half gallon cream, flavor with 
lemon. Freeze each separately, then place in a mold, alter- 
nate layers of each until filled. Put on ice and freeze again. 
— Mrs. Matt. Turney. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

Three quarts rich custard, one-half tea-cup seeded raisins, 
one pound blanched almonds, chopped, but not very fine. 
Mix and put into freezer ; when beginning to freeze, stir in 
one quart whipped cream. Stir well every few minutes to 
prevent fruit falling to the bottom. Season with good 
whisky. — Mrs. J. H. Brent. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. GOOD. 

Whip well two quarts of rich, sweet cream to a froth, with 
two tea-cups of powdered white sugar. Grate two ripe pine, 
apples (or two cans), and add two tea-cups of white sugar. 
When well mixed, stir into the cream. Pour into the freezer, 
reserving a little. When it begins to freeze then beat in the 
remainder. Beat hard when the freezer is opened to cut 
down the cream. — Mrs. L. H. Blanton. 

ECONOMICAL LEMON SHERBET. 

Dissolve three tea-spoonfuls citric acid in one-half tea-cup 
hot water ; add one gallon fresh water, four tea-cups sugar, 
three tea-spoonfuls extract lemon. When beginning to 
freeze, add whites of two eggs well beaten. — Mrs. Judge 
Payne, Georgetown, Ky. 

DELMOMCO. 

To one-third of a box of gelatine put one pint of cold water, 
and let it dissolve. Beat the yelks of twelve eggs very light, 



MISCELLANEOUS. 175 



and beat into them one pound of sugar until the mixture ia 
very light. Stir in the gelatine. Stir into the above, one 
quart of boiling cream ; stir well. Put it on the stove until 
thick, making a rich custard. When quite cold, season with 
vanilla. Stir into it pint and a half of rich cream, whipped 
to a froth while freezing. 

ORANGE FLOAT. 

Make a custard of two coffee-cups of milk, yelks of four 
eggs, four table-spoons of white sugar, and set aside to cool. 
Take the juice of two oranges and the rind of one, strain 
over two table-spoons of gelatine and one tea-cup of sugar. 
Pour gently over this one pint boiling water ; stir until dis- 
solved, and set aside to cool. Beat the four whites stiff, and 
stir into this one spoonful at a time. Put the grated rind 
into the custard, put into a glass bowl, and heap the float 
upon it. It requires a good deal of beating. — Mrs. Allen 
Bashford. 

BOILED ICING. 

To one pound of sugar add just enough water to moiste^Q ; 
boil until it begins to thicken ; then take off and stir until it 
turns somewhat white, before adding the whites of three eggs 
well beaten. Flavor with fresh lemon. A tea-spoonlxil of 
pulverized gum arabic makes the icing glisten. — Mrs. Macrae, 
Newstead, Ky. 

GOOD CANDY. 

Two and one-half pounds granulated sugar, one quarter 
pound butter (light weight), one and one-half wine-glass 
vinegar, one-third tea-spoonful soda, a good pinch of salt, just 
enough warm water to dissolve sugar. Put in all the above 
ingredients, place over a hot fire, and cook quickly, not stir- 
ring at all. After boiling, try if done by dropping a spoon- 
ful in cold water. If it cools quickly and cracks on the side 
of the glass, it can be taken off and pulled. Pour out with- 
out shaking or turning the kettle up, onto buttered dishes, 



176 MISCELLANEOTTS. 



placed so as to prevent shaking or turning kettle. If desired, 
Baker's chocolate can be grated onto the plates of candy and 
>ulled in, also grated cocoanut. Flavor with any extract 
preferred. — Mrs. J. H. Brent. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One and one-half pound of brown sugar, one-quarter 
pound of butter, one-half pound of Baker's chocolate, one 
tea-cup of cream, one tea-spoon cream tartar. Flavor with 
vanilla. — Mrs. Margaret Preston Bavie, Louisville, Ky. 

SALT-RISING BREAD. 

Three table-spoonfuls meal, one of white sugar, one tea- 
spoon salt, one pint new milk. Boil milk and pour over 
meal, sugar, and salt ; stir well. Add suflScient water to cool 
it ; stir in enough flour to make a moderately thin batter. Set 
mixture in a vessel of warm water to rise, which should be 
in four or five hours. This quantity will make up six pints 
of flour. Work the dough twice, which makes it extra nice. 
— Mrs. Burton, Richmond, Ky. 

OAT MEAL MUSH. 

A tea-cup of meal washed in cold water. Pour off water 
and husks. Add three quarts boilint; water, and as the mush 
thickens add more. Put in one table-spoonful salt. Boil 
half hour, stirring constantly. It is improved by cooking an 
hour. — Miss Sawes. 

SCALLOPED TURKEY. 

Have ready cold roast turkey; mince fine, using lean, fat 
and stuffing; a large quantity of stale light bread crumbs. 
Butter a deep dish or pan, in which first place a layer of 
crumbs and then one of turkey, on which drop bits of butter, 
salt and pepper. Fill the dish with alternate layers, the 
crumbs on top. Beat two eggs with sufficient milk to cover 
the whole. Bake until brown. — Mrs. Gibson, Va. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 177 



RUSK OR SWEET BREAD. 

One pint flour, one pint white sugar, one tea-cup melted 
lard, one and ono-half pints water, two kitchen-spoonfuls 
yeast. Make into a batter at night and set to rise. In the 
morning work into the sponge two beaten eggs and three 
pints of flour, and set to rise. The dough should be soft. 
When light, form into rolls and let rise again ; when very- 
light, bake in a slow oven. Spread on the rolls when warm 
white of eggs and sifted cinnamon. — Mrs. Davenport, Ya. 

CORN SOUP. 

Twelve ears of corn, one and one-half pints water, two 
quarts new milk, two eggs, two table-spoons butter, one flour. 
Split and cut off corn, which boil in the water till done and 
the water nearly exhausted. Then add milk, let come to a 
boil, some of which pour onto the beaten eggs and return to 
kettle. Work flour into butter, with pepper and salt to taste, 
which put into the soup. Let it boil up once, when pour into 
tureen. — Mrs. Davenport, Va. 

STEWED CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS. 

Fill the inside of a chicken (a young pullet preferred) with 
oysters. Put it into a jar, cover tightly ; place the jar in a 
pot of water and boil an hour and a half There will be a 
good deal of gravy from the fowl and oysters, to which add 
a little flour made smooth in a small quantity of cold water. 
Season with butter, salt, pepper to taste, and add more oys- 
ters. Serve sauce with the fowl, which will be found very 
white and tender, all the juices lost in ordinary boiling being 
retained. — Mrs. Gibson, Va. 

STEWED CHICKEN. 

Cut np one chicken, stew thoroughly ; make a sauce as di- 
rected for chicken pudding. Have toasted bread in a flat 
dish, on which place the chicken and cover with the sauce. 



178 MISCELLANEOUS. 



BLUE GRASS FRUIT CAKE. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, three-quarters of a 
pound of sugai-, three-quarters of a pound of flour, eight eggs, 
one gill of cream, one tea-spoonful of cinnamon and nutmeg 
mixed, half a gill of brandy, one pound of currants (washed, 
dried, and picked), one pound of raisins (seeded and chopped). 
Beat the butter, sugar, and spice until very light ; then, stir 
in the cream and one-fourth of the flour; whisk the eggs un- 
til thick, which add by degrees; then the remainder of the 
flour, half at a time ; lastly, the fruit ; beat all well together. 
Butter and line your pan with white paper, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

MACAROONS. 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, half a pound of fine white 
sugar, the whites of two eggs. Blanch the almonds, and 
pound them to a paste ; add to them the sugar and the eggs, 
after they have been beaten to a froth. Work the whole well 
together with the back of a spoon ; then roll the preparation 
in your hands in balls about the size of a nutmeg; lay them 
on a sheet of paper, at least an inch apart. Bake them in a 
cool oven, a light brown. 

KISSES. 

Half a pound of powdered white sugar, the whites of five 
eggs. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth ; add the sugar by de- 
grees until it is all in ; then place the mixture on white paper 
with a tea-spoon, in the shape required, and take care to have 
them at least an inch apart; if they should touch their shape 
would be spoiled. Put the paper on which the kisses have 
been placed on a board, or on many thicknesses of paper, in 
order to keep the heat from drying the half next the white 
paper ; put them in a quick oven, and as soon as they become 
a little discolored take them out, slip a knife under them, take 
them off the paper, put two together, and let them cool. — 
Mrs. M. T. Furndl. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 179 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two common-8ized fowls, one tea-cupful of fresh sweet oil, 
a half jar of French mustard, the yelks often eggs which 
have been boiled hard, half a pint of vinegar, one tea-spoon- 
ful of cayenne pepper, eight heads of celery, one tea-spoonful 
of salt, or more if required. Boil the fowls, and put suflScient 
salt in the water to render palatable. When they are per- 
fectly cold, cut the meat from the bones in pieces about a 
quarter of an inch in size. Cut the white part of the celery 
about the same. Mix the chicken and celery and set them 
away. Mash the eggs to a paste with oil ; then add vinegar, 
mustard, cayenne, and salt. Mix all thoroughly. When the 
dressing is made, pour over the salad half hour before served. 
— Mrs. Furnell. 

VALENCIA OR ORANGE WINE. 

Take three dozen large lemons and two dozen sour oranges, 
peel the rind oflf very thin, put the half of it into a crock 
with one gallon of pure spirit, one-half pound sweet al- 
monds, one-quarter pound bitter almonds (blanched and 
pounded), one-half ounce nutmeg (grated), one-half ounce each 
mace and cinnamon (ground), two ounces best root ginger 
(bruised), one-half ounce beet Spanish saffron, one-quarter 
ounce cochineal (bruised). Let it remain forty-eight hours 
covered close. Take three pounds white sugar, and squeeze 
the juice of the fruit upon it, which also cover. When the 
forty-eight hours have expired, add the juice and sugar to 
the spirit, etc. ; also three quarts of cold boiled water and 
two quarts of new milk, boiling (take care the milk does not 
scorch) ; the milk must be the last thing added.; stir it in 
very quickly, cover it up close, and keep it in a warm place 
for three or four hours. It is then ready for straiaing through 
a flannel-bag (cotton and wool flannel) suflSciently large to 
bold it all. Make the bag in the shape of a funnel, sew strong 
tape strings to each side of it, and suspend it between two 
chairs or a frame made for the purpose. Pour all the con- 
tents of the crock into the bag j the rinds, etc., form a good 



18U MISCELLANEOUS. 



filterer. As the liquor runs through the bag, keep pouring 
it back, without disturbing the contents of the bag, until it 
runs perfectly clear, then bottle it as fast as it runs. Toward 
the last, when the wine runs slowly, add about a wine-glass 
of spirit to each bottle. Einse the bottles with spirit after 
washing them with water. Seal the corks. This wine is 
ready for use as soon as made, but improves with age. Keep 
it in a cool place. With ice it makes a delightful summer 
drink. This receipt makes three gallons. 

GINGER WINE. 

Treat the following materials precisely as directed above 
for Valencia wine: 

Two gallons pure spirit (198 per cent.), four gallons cold 
boiled water, eight pounds white sugar, three dozen lemons, 
two dozen oranges, eight ounces best root ginger (bruised), 
one-half ounce cochineal, one-half ounce Spanish saffron, 
three quarts milk (boiling). This amount makes seven 
gallons. 



INDEX. 



Almonds— Burnt, 139; Cajce, 107; Candy, 
139; Ice Cream, 127. 

Ambrosia, 123. 

Angel's Food Cake, 124, 169. 

Aperient, 158. 

Apples— to Can, 70; Coddled, 90; Cream, 
90; Custard, 77; Dessert, 90; Dump- 
lings, 76, 77; Fritters, 91; Meringue, 
89; Pudding, 77; SoufSe, 89; Wine, 144. 

Arrow Root, 152. 

Bean, Black — Soup, 5. 

Beef— A la Mode, 13; Corn, 14, 15, 21; 
Curing. 14; Dried, 171; Hams, 14; Pot- 
pie, 18; Soup, 2. 3; Steak broiled, 20; 
Steakstuffed, 13; Tea, 154; Tongue, 14. 

Beer, 143. 

Beverages, 140. 

Bivavo, 122. 

Biscuit— A la Creme, 114: Beaten, 52; 
Cream of Tartar, 50: Craham, 51; Sa- 
voy, 98; Soda, 51; Sliort, 62; Sour 
Cream, 51; Yankee, 52. 

Bisque Glaze, 129. 

Bitters, 155. 

Blackberry— Cordial, 142; Flummery, 
90; Jelly, 154; Vinegar, 143; Wine, 
14L 

Blanc Mange, 123. 

Bleaching, 163. 

Bouille, 4. 

Brains— Hogs, 170; Fried, 170. 

Brandy Peaches, 144, 145. 

Bread. 46, 48— Brown, 58, 169; Egg, 56; 
Indian, 47; Light, 47; Potato, 66: Eiee 
Corn Meal, 56; Salt Rising, 52, 176. 

Bruises, 157, 158. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 50. 

Burns, 156. 

Burnt Almonds, 139. 

Batter— Brine for, 163; Drawn, 22; Pack- 
ing, 163; Preserving, 165. 

Cakes — Buckwheat, 50; Bread Crumb, 
54; Corn Meal Batter, 54; Flannel, 55; 
Mush Batter, 54; Rice Batter, 54; Rice 
Griddle, 50. 



Cake— General Directions, 96; Almond, 
107: Almond filling, 170; Ambrosia, 
100; Black, 112, 113; Bride's, 104 ; Char- 
lotte Polonaise, 99; Cheese, 72: Chess, 
79; Chocolate, 105, 106, 110, 113; Choc- 
olate filling, 118; Mrs. Clay's Pre- 
mium, 100; Cocoanut. 103; Coffee, 110; 
Coloring for. 116; Cream, 109, 11< 
115; Cream filling, 116; Cream sponge, 
97; Cup, 106: Cup, white, 101, 104; 
Custard, 101; Custard filling, 117; Del- 
icate, 99; Economical, 103; Flavoring 
for, 101; Fruit, 101, 178; Ginger, 107; 
Ginger, extra, 103; Ginger, loaf, 104; 
Ginger, soft, 103; Ginger, sponge, 103; 
Golden, 107; Hill, 115: Icing for, 97; 
Jam. 88; Jelly, 113; 114; Jelly filling, 
117; Jelly icing, 117; Jelly, substitute 
for, 118; Lady, 115; Lemon filling, 118, 
Macaroon, 178; Marble, HI; Mille-ans, 
115; Mixture for, 117; Mountain, 105; 
Neapolitan, 172; Nut, 117: Orange, 107; 
Portugal, 110; Pound, 98: Puflf, 106; 
Queens, 99; Rosette, 107: Scotch, 107; 
Silver, 109, 110; Snowball, 110; Spiced, 
111: Sponge, Ginger, 103; Sponge, 
white, 96. 97; Sponge, yellow, 97, 98; 
Springfield, 103; Starch, 105: Sugar 
Drop, 109; Tea, 111, 112; Ten Minute, 
103; Tip-top, 102; Water Melon, 98; 
White, 100, 101, 102; Wine, 114. 

Calves'-Foot Jelly, 125. 
Calves'-Head Soup, 5. 
Candy, 136, 175— Almond, 139; Cream, 

136; White Cream, 135. 
Canned Fruits and Vegetables, 69. 
Caramels— Chocolate, 135, 176. 
Carpets — to clean, 164, 165. 
Catsups 25— Cabbage, 25; Chelee, 27; 

Cucumber,. 26, 27; Gooseberry, 27; 

Tomato, 25, 26: Tomato, Green, 25, 26. 
Cashaw, 63. 

Cement, American, 162. 
Charlotte Russe, 120, 121— Farina, 121. 
Cheese Cake, 72— Canadian, 172. 
Chicken— Gumbo, 5; Pie, 18; Pie with 

Rice, 18; Pot-pie, 18; Pudding, 168; 

Salad, 42, 179; Soup, 1; Stewed 177. 
Chocolate, 146— Cakes, 105, 106, 110, 113; 

Caramels, 135, 176; Custard frozen, 

128; Filling, 117; Ice Cream, 129; 

(181) 



182 



INDEX. 



Icing, 116; Meringues, 136; Paste, 
117. 

Chow-chow, 33, 34. 

Cider— Champagne, 144; to keep sweet, 
144. 

Coeoanut— Cake, 103; Drops, 135, 136; 
lee Cream, 127; Meringue, 136. 

Codfish— Balls, 8; Boiled, 7; Stewed, 8. 

Coffee, 146— Boiled, 146; Dripped, 147. 

Cold In the Head, 157. 

Colic In Horses, 158. 

Colors— Setting, 162, 164. 

Confectionery, 135. 

Cordial- Blackberry, 142. 

Corn— Batter Cakes, 54; Boiled, .60: 
Dodgers, old fashioned, 57; Fricas- 
seed, 60; Fritters, 60; Green, to can, 69; 
Green, for winter use, 69; Pudding, 
60, 61, 65; Starch Cakes, 104. 

Cough Medicine, 156. 

Crab, Wild— Preserves, 150. 

Crape Veils- to renovate, 164; 

Cream — Bavarian, 122; Caromel, 126, 
128; Cold, 158; Irish. 128; Isinglass, 
134; Italian, 124; Kock, 124; Velvet, 
122; Vienna, 126. 

Croquettes, 44, 171 — Eloe, 44; Salmon, 
45. 

Cucumbers— Catsup, 26, 27; Fried, 65; 
Mangoes, 37; Pickles, 30, 32, 38. 

Currant— Jelly, 133: Shrub, 143. 

Custard, 119— Apple, 77; Baked, 122: 
Boiled, 119; Chocolate, frozen, 128; 
Cold, 120; Lemon, 120; SoUd, 120. 

Cymblings, 64. 

Delmonlco, 174. 
Doughnuts, 108. 
Ducks — Boast, 16. 

Dumplings— Apple, 76, 77; Baked, 77; 

Snow, 76. 
Dyspepsia, 158. 



Earache, 157. 

Egg Bread— Kentucky Corn, 56. 

Eggs— Boiled, 67; Columbus, 67; Dress- 
ed, 67; Frind, 67: Made Dish, 68; 
Omelettes, 66; Pickled, 68; Poached, 
67; to keep for winter, 163. 

Egg Nog, 142. 

Egg Plant— Fried, 64. 

Eyes— Inflamed, 157; Water, 157. 

Felon — to cure a, 155. 

Fish, 6— Baked, 6; Boiled, 7; Cod, 7, 8; 

Fried, 7; Pie, 8; Sauce, 8; Stewed, 6; 

Stufled and Baked, 7. 



Flesh Brushes, 155. 
Float, 122— Orange, 175. 
Flummery — Blackberry, 90. 
Food for the Sick. 152. 
Frangipane a '.a Congurs, 137. 
Fritters, 92— Apple, 91; Oyster, 10. 
Fruit— to can, 70. 
Furniture, 167. 

Gelatine— Icing, 116; Jelly, 125. 
Gems, 48— Brown, 58. 
Giblets, 20. 

Ginger— Cake, 103, 104, 107; Loaf, 104; 
Pudding, 83, 84; Snaps, 108; Wine, 180. 
Glaze for Shirt Bosoms, 165. 
Goose— Eoast, 16. 
Good Friday, 90. 
Grenadine— to freshen, 166. 
Gruel— Corn Meal, 152. 
Gumbo Soup. 4. 

Hair— Wash for the, 161. 

Ham— Baked, 16; Boiled, 16; Broiled, 
18; How to Cook, 15; to Glaze Cold, 
20; Sauce for Grated, 18; Stufifed. 16. 

Hash— Baked, 19. 

Hashee, 19. 

Hominy, 61. 

Honey, 148. 

Ice Cream— Almond, 127; Bisque Glaze, 
128, 129; Chocolate, 129; Coeoanut, 
127; Jerusalem, 127; Lemon, 128; Me- 
tropolitan, 174; Pine Apple,174; Straw- 
berry, 128. 

ices, 127— Champagne. 131; Lemon, 132; 
Pine Apple, 131, 132; Raspberry, 132: 
Roman Punch, 131. 

Icing- Boiled, 175; for Cake, 97; Choc- 
olate, 116; Gelatine, 116; Jelly, 117. 

Infants— Preparation for, 153. 

Ink— to extract, 165; to make, 165. 

Jelly— Arrow Root, 153 ; Blackberry, 154; 
Calves' Foot 125; Crab Apple, 133; 
Cranberry, 134; Currant, 133; Gelatin, 
125; Green, Grape, 134; Isinglass, 125; 
Lemon, 116; for Meats, 133; Orange, 
transparent, 126; Pine Apple, White, 
133; Pudding, 81, 83; Raspberry, 134; 
Rice, 158: Rolls, 88, Russian. 126; Sage, 
153; Tapioca, 153; Wine, 119, 164. 

Jumbles, 108. 

Kisses, 178— Chocolate Egg, 137; Egjl 
Laces— Cleaning, 161. 



INDEX. 



183 



liemon — Butter, 117; Essences, 145; Ice, 
Cream. 127; Jelly, 116; Milk Lemon- 
ade, 147; Pies, 76. 

Lettuce— Dressing for, 61. 

Muuaroui, 63. 

Mangoes— Cunumber, 37; Oil, 28, 29; 
Peach, 31, 32; Pepper, 29. 

Maple Syrup, 150. 

Martile— to remove stains from, 165. 

Marmalade — Peach, 150. 

Mattins. 167. 

Meat, 12— Cakes, 19; Jelly for, 133: 
Sauces for, 22. 

Meringues, 136, 137— Apple, 89: Choco- 
late, 136; Pie, 138; Prune, 89; Tarts, 
138. 

Mildew — to take out, 107. 

Milk thickened, 152— Lemonade, 147; 
Pudding, 94. 

Mince— Meat, 78, 79; Pies, 78. 

Mirletons Aux-Amandes, 137. 

Moraines, 115. 

Mucilage, 167. 

Muffins— Corn Meal, 49, 50, 169; Cream, 
49; Quick, 49; Elee, 49: Yeast, 49. 

Mush— Oat Meal, 176. 

Mustard, 27. 

Mutton— Joint, 15; Stewed, 19. 

Nectar— Cream, 143. 
Neuralgia, 157. 
Noodles— for Soup, 2. 

Oat Meal Mush, 176. 

Ointment — Breast, 156. 

Okra— to can, 69: Soup, 3. 

Omelette, 66, 68— Puff, 06, Souffle, 89. 

Onion — Sauce, 23; Stewed, 64. 

Oranges— Cake, 107; Float, 175: JeUy,, 
126: Peel, to preserve, 149: Pies, 75, 86, 
172; Preserves, 151; Bide Dish, 137. 

Orioles Nest, 124. 

Oysters, 9— dressing for, 9; Fried, 10; 
Fritters, 10; Salad, 45; as sauce for 
fowls, 11; Sausages, 11; Scalloped, 10; 
Soup, 9; Stewed, 10, 11; Stewed, 
French, 169. 

Oyster Plant, 64. 

Paint for Pavements, 166. 

Parsnips, 63. 

Paste— Confectioners, 72; Chocolate, 

lis: Lard, 72; Puff, 71, Suet, 72. 
Peas — Green, to boil, 65. 
Pea Soup, 2, 4. 



Peaches— Brandy 144, 145; to can, 70: 
Fried 04; Mangoes, 31, 32; Marma- 
lade, 150. 

Fears, to can, 70; in Syrup, 90. 

Pickles, 28— Cabbage, 31; Celery, 28; 
Composition, 35; Cucumber, 30, 32, 38; 
Green, how to color, 35; India, .35; 
Mangoes, Oil, 28, 29; Mangoes, Green 
Peppci, 29: Martinoe, 30; Mixed, 33, 
37; Onion, 36, 37; Rough and Uendy, 
34; Spanish, SO; Tomato, .32; Tomato, 
Green, 30. 38; Tomato, frosted, 32; 
Walnut, 28; Yellow, 31. 

Pickles, Sweet. 39, 40, 41— Apple, 39; 
Cantelope, 40; Cucumber, 41; Mango, 
40; Peach, 40; Tomato, Green, 41. 

Pickle— for Pork, 20. 

Pies— Apple Custard for, 77; Chicken, 
18; Cream, 74; Crust, 72; Fish, 8; 
Lemon. 70; Lemon Meringue, 138; 
Mince, 78; Molasses, 82; Sweet Potato, 
82. 

Pl'im Preserves, 151. 

Poisons — Antidote for, 155; Oak, cure, 
156; Vines, 157. 

Polish— for Grates, 161. 

Pone— Steam, 58. 

Pork— Pickle for, 20. 

Porter Soda, 143. 

Potatoes— Balls, 63: Boiled, 62; for 
Breakfast, 62; Puffs, 63. 

Poultry, 17. 

Preserves, 148-151— to seal, 70. 

Puddings, 80-95— Apple, 77: Batter, 94; 
Biscuit, 88; Boiled, 173; Bourbon, 74; 
Bread, 91, 172; Cake, 87, 88; Charlotte 
Kusse, 87; Cherry, 78; Chicken, 168; 
Citron, 78; Cocoanut, 81; Corn, Green, 
65; Cottage, 86; Cream, 93; Custard, 
74; Delmonico, 94; Dutch, 2) ; Feather, 
83 ; French. 91 ; Frozen, 129, 174 ; Ginger, 
83, 84; Gingerbread, 83; Ice, 129; Jam, 
82; Jelly, 81, 83; Kentucky, 74; Lemon, 
75. 76; Lemon Sponge Cake, 85; Marl- 
borough, 79; Minute, 88: Molasses, 82; 
Muncv, 173; Nesselrode, 130: Orange, 
75, 86" 172; Oxford, 91; Plain, 87; 
Pound Cake, 87; Potato, Irish, 80, 81, 
82; Potato, Sweet, 80, 88; Plum, 92, 93; 
Pumpkin, 82; The Queen of, 94; 
Quince, 78; Quaker, 173; Eaisin, 93; 
Kice Plum, 93; Sago, 84; Sauce for, 95; 
Scotch, 86; Snow, 23; Sunderland, 94; 
Sweetmeat, 79; Tapioca, 84. 85, 86; 
Thickened Milk, 94; Transparent, 73; 
Virginia, 91; Vinegar, 75; White, 21; 
Woodford, 87. 

Puffs, 47— Cream, 92; German, 87; Po- 
tato, 63. 

Punch— Catawba, 140; Champagne, 
140; Koman Ice, 131; Whisky, 140. 

Quince Preserves, 149, 151; Pudding, 78, 



184 



INDEX. 



Kaspberry — Jelly, 1R4; Preserves, 151; 

Syrup, 145; Viuegar, 142. 
Remedies, 155. 
Eheamatism, 155. 

Kiee, 61— Croquettes, 44; Pudding, 93. 
Eoley Foley— Orange, 73. 
EoUs— Light, '1, 55. 
Roman Punch Ice, 131. 

Salad— Chicken, 42, 179; Dressing for, 
43; Ilvden, .S4; Lobster, 43; Oyster, 
45; Potato, 43; Salmon, 43. 

Sally Lunu, 57. 

Salmon— Croquettes, 44; Salad, 43. 

SalsUy, 64. 

Salt-rising, 53, 54. 

Salve, 155, 158— Lip, 156, 157. 

Sandwiches, 44. 

Sapolio, 167. 

Sauce, 22— Chelee, 27; Cold, 95; Cu- 
cumber, 23; Horse Radish, 23; Tellv, 
24; London Club, 21; For Cold Mea"t, 
22; Mint, 24; Mustard, 24; Onion, 23; 
For Pudding^i, 95; White, for Pudding, 
95: White, for Poultrv, 24; Wine, 23, 
95; Wine, for Roast Meat, 22; Wine, 
for Venison, 23: For Venison, 22. 

Sausage— Meat, 19; Oyster, 11; Smoked, 
20. 

Scalds, 156. 

Scrapple, 170. ' 

Sealing Wax, 166, 167. 

Shampoo, 158. 

Sherbet, 132— Lemon, 174; Madeira 
Wine, 131; Orange, 132. 

Sick— Blackberry Jelly for, 154; Food 
for, 152; Preparation lor, 153. 

Silk— Black, to clean, 164. 

Skin— Wa«h for the, 162. 

Slaw— Dressing for, 61, 62, 65. 

Soaps, 159, 160. 

Souffle— Apple, 89; Omelette, 89. 

Soup— Essentials in making, 1 ; Beef, 3; 
Black Bean, 5; Boullle, 4; Calves' 
Head, 5; Chicken, 1; Chicken Gum- 
bo, 5; Clear Beef, 2: Corn. 177; Delic- 
ious, 3; Gumbo, 4; Noodles for, 2; 
Okra, 3; Oyster, 9; Pea, 2, 4; Vege- 
table, 1. 

Sponge Cake— Ginger, 103; Roll, 85; 
White, 96, 9T; yellow, 97, 98. 



Sprains— Remedy for, 156. 

Stair Rods— to clean, 165. 

Steak, Beef— Broiled, 20; StufTed, 13. 

Stew— Virginia Brunswick, 168. 

Strawberry— Acid, 142; Ice Cream, 128: 
Preserves, 148, 149, 151. 

Sugar— to clarify, 150. 

Sweet Bread— Stewed with Cham- 
pagne, 44; with Peas, 170; iMed, with 
Peas, 170. 

Sweetmeats, 148. 

Sweet Potatoes, 62— Pudding, 80, 88. 
Syrup— Maple, 150; Orange and Lemon, 
145; Pineapple, 145; Raspberry, 145. 

Taffy- Brown, 139; White, 138. 

Tartlettes- Marin, 138. 

Tarts- Meringue, 138. 

Tea, 146— Beef, 154. 

Tomatoes— Baked, 59; Boiled, 60; to 

can, 69, 70; Catsup, 25, 20; Fried, 60; 

Fried, Green, 65; Pickles, 30, 32, 38; 

Preserves, 150; Scalloped, 59. 
Touts Fruits, 130, 131. 
Trifles, 119. 

Tripe— Fried, 169; Stewed, 45. 
Turkey— Boiled, 17; Deviled, 170; 

Roast, 17; Scalloped, 176. 

Veal— Pot Pie, 18; Stewed, 19. 
Vegetables, 59— Soup, 1. 

Venison— Saddle, 12: Sauce for, 22; 
Wine Sauce for, 23. 

Vinegar— Blackberry, 143; Raspberry, 
142; Spiced, 37. 



Waffles, 46— Made with Yeast, 46. 

Walnut Pickles, 28. 

Washing, 166. 

■White Wash, 162. 

Wine— Apple, 144; Blackberry, 141: 
Catawba, 140, 141; Currant, 141, 
144; Ginger, 180; Gooseberry, 141; 
Grape, 141; Jelly, 119, 154; Orange, 
179; Sauce, 22, 23, 95; Valencia, 179. 



Yeast, 48— Fleischman's, 52; Potato and 
Hop, 47, 51. 



HISTORICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS 

PUBLICATIONS OF 

ROBERT CLARKE & CO. 

CINCINNATI, O. 



Alzog (John, D. D.) A Manual of Universal Church History. 

Translated by Rev. T. J. Pabisch and Eev. T. S. Byrne. 3 

vols. 8vo. 15 00 

Anderson (E. L.) Six Weeks in Norway. 18mo" 1 GO 

Andke (Major) The Cow Chace; an Heroick Poem. 8vo. 

Paper. 75 

Antrim (J.) The History of Champaign and Logan Counties, 

Ohio, from their First Settlement. 12mo. 1 50 

Ballard (Julia P.) Insect Lives; or, Born in Prison. Illus- 
trated. Sq. 12mo. 1 00 
Bell (Thomas J.) History of the Cincinnati Water Works. 

Plates. 8vo. 75 

Bennek (S.) Prophecies of Future ITps and Downs in Prices: 

what years to make Money in Pig Iron, Hogs, Corn, and 

Provisions. 2d ed. 24mo. 1 00 

Bible in the Public Schools. Eecords, Arguments, etc., in 

the Case of Minor vs. Board of Education of Cincinnati. 

8vo. 2 00 

Arguments in Favor of the Use of the Bible. Separate. 
Paper. 50 

Arguments Against the Use of the Bible. Separate. Paper. 50 
BiDDLE (Horace P.) Elements of Knowledge. 12mo. 1 00 

BiDDLE (Horace P.) Prose Miscellanies. 12mo. 1 00 

BiNKERD (A. D.) The Mammoth Cave of Kentucky. Paper. 

8vo. 50 

Bouquet (H.) The Expedition of, against the Ohio Indians in 

1764, etc. With Preface by Francis Parkman, Jr. 8vo. 

$3 00. Large Paper. 6 00 

BoTLAND (G. H., M. D.) Six Months Under the Red Cross with 

the French Army in the Franco-Prussian War. 12mo. 1 50 



2 Historical and Miscellaneous Publications of 

Brtoner (A. A.) Elementary and Pronouncing French Readp.n 
18mo. 6Q 

Brtoner (A. A.) The Gender of French Verba Simplified, 
18mo. 25 

Burt (Rev. N. C, D. D.) The Far East; or, Letters from Egypt, 
Palestine, etc. 12mo. 1 75 

Bdtterfield (C. W.) The Washington-Crawford Letters; being 
the Correspondence between George Washington and William 
Crawford, concerning Western Lands. 8vo. 1 00 

BuTTEEFiELD (C. W.) The Discovery of the Northwest in 1634, 
by John Nicolet, with a Sketch of his Life. 12mo. 1 OQ 

Ci-AEK (Col. George Rogers) Sketches of his Campaign in the 
Illinois in 1778-9. With an Introduction by Hon. Henry 
Pirtle, and an Appendix. 8vo. $2 00. Large paper. 4 00 

Coffin (Levi) The Reminiscences of Levi CofBn, the Reputed 
President of the Underground Railroad. A Brief History of 
the Labors of a Lifetime in behalf of the Slave. With Stories 
of Fugitive Slaves, etc., etc. 12mo. 2 00 

Constitution of the United States, Etc. The Declaration ol 
Independence, July 4, 1776; the Articles of Confederation, 
July 9, 1778; the Constitution of the United States, Sep- 
tember 17, 1787; the Fifteen Amendments to the Constitution, 
and Index; Washington's Farewell Address, September 7, 
1796. 8vo. Paper. ' 25 

Ckaig (N. B.) The Olden Time. A Monthly Publication, devoted 
to the Preservation of Documents of Early History, etc. 
Originally Published at Pittsburg, in 1846-47. 2 vols. 
8vo. ■ 10 00 

Drake (D.) Pioneer Life in Kentucky. Edited, with Notes 
and a Biographical Sketch, by his Son, Hon. Chas. D. Drake. 
8vo. $3 00. Large paper. 6 00 

DuBreuil (A.) Vineyard Culture Improved and Cheapened. 
Edited by Dr.' J. A. Warder. I2mo. 2 t)0 

Ellard (Virginia G.) Grandma's Christmas Day. lUus. Sq, 
I2mo. 1 00 

Family Expense Book. A Printed Account Book, with appro- 
priate Columns and Headings, for keeping a Complete Record 
of Family Expenses. 12mo. 50 

FiNLEY (I. J.) and Putnam (R.) Pioneer Record and' Remin- 
iscences of the Early Settlers and Settlement of Ross County, 
Ohio. 8vo. 2 50 

Fletcher (Wm. B., M. D.) Cholera: its Characteristics, History, 
Treatment, etc. 8vo. Paper. ' 1 00 

Force (M. F.) Essays : Pre-Historic Man — Darwinism and Deity 
— The Mound Builders. 8vo. Paper, 75 



MoheH Clarke X- Co., Cincinnati, Ohio. 3 

Force (Jsl. F.) Some Early ^"^otices of the Indians of Ohio. To 
What Race did the Mound Builders belong. 8vo. Paper. 50 

Fbeemaii (Ellen.) Manual of the French Verb, to accompany 
every French Course. 16mo. Paper. 25 

Gallagher (Wm. D.) Miami Woods, A Golden Wedding, and 
other Poems. 12mo. 2 00 

GiAUQL-B (F.) The Election Laws of the United States : with 
Kotes of Decisions, elo. 8vo. Paper, 75c.; cloth, 1 00 

Gbimkb (F.) Considerations on the Nature and Tendency of 
Free Institutions. 8vo. 2 50 

Griswold (W.) Kansas: her Resources and Developments; or, 
the Kansas Pilot. 8vo. Paper. 50 

Groesbeck (W. S.) Gold and Silver. Address delivered before 
the American Bankers' Association, in New York, September 
13, 1878. 8vo. Paper. 25 

Hall (James.) Legends of the West. Sketches illustrative of 
the Habits, Occupations, Pi-ivations, Adventures, and Sports 
of the Pioneers of the AVest. 12mo. 2 00 

Hall (James.) Romance of WesterA History; or, Sketches of 
History, Life, and Manners in the West. 12mo. 2 00 

Haxoteb (M. D.) a Practical Treatise on the Law of Horses, 
embracing the Law of Bargain, Sale, and Warranty of Horses 
and other Live Stock ; the Rule as to Unsoundness and Vice, 
and the Responsibility of the Proprietors of Livery, Auction, 
and Sale Stables, Inn-Keepers, Veterinary Surgeons, and Far- 
riers, Carriers, etc. ■8vo. 4 00 

Hart (J. M.) A Syllabus of Anglo-Saxon Literature. 8vo. 

Paper. 50 

Ha.'ssaurek (F.) The Secret of the Andes. A Romance. 

12ino. 1 50 

The Same, in German.' 8vo. Paper, 50c. ; cloth. 1 00 

Hassattrek (F.) Four Years Among Spanish Americans. Third 

Edition. 12mo. 1 50 

Hatch (Col. W. S.) A Chapter in the History of the War of 

1812, in the Northwest, embracing the Surrender of the 

Northwestern Army and Fort, at Detroit, August 16, 1813, etc. 

18mo. 1 25 

Hayes (Rutherford B.) The Life, Public Services, and Select 

Speeches of Edited by J. Q. Howard. 12mo. Paper, 75c. ; 

cloth, 1 25 

Hazek (Gen. W. B.) Our Barren Lands. The Interior of the 

United States, West of the One-Hundredth Meridian, and 

East of the Sierra Nevada. 8vo. Paper. 50 



4 Historicol and Miscellaneous Publications of 

Henshall (Dr. James A.) Book of the Black Bass: comprising 
its complete Scientific and Life History, together with a Prac- 
tical Treatise on Agling and Fly Fishing, and a full description 
of Tools, Tackle, and Implements. Illustrated. 12mo. 3 00 

HouTON (S. Dana.) Silver and Gold, and their Relation to the 

Problem of Resumption. 8vo. 1 50 

HoKTON (S. Dana.) The Monetary Situation. 8vo. Paper. 50 

Hough (Franklin B.) Elements of Forestry. Designed to afiford 
Information concerning the Planting and Care of Forest Trees 
for Ornament and Profit; and giving Suggestions upon the 
Creation and Care of Woodlands, with the view of securing the 
greatest benefit for the longest time. Particula,rly adapted to 
the Wants and Conditions of the United States. Illustrated. 
12mo. 2 00 

Housekeeping in the Elite Grass. A New and Practical Cook 
Book. By Ladies of the Presbyterian Church, Paris, Ky. 
12mo. . 12th thousand. 1 50 

HovET (Horace C.) Celebrated American Caverns, especially 
Mammoth, Wyandot, and Luray ; together with Historical, 
Scientific, .and Descriptive Notices of Caves and Grottoes in 
Other Lands. Maps and Illustrations. 8vo. 2 00 

Hove (H.) Historical Collections of Ohio. Containing a Col- 
lection of the most Interesting Facts, Traditions; Biographical 
Sketches, Anecdotes, etc., relating to its Local and General 
History. 8vo. 6 00 

HtTNT (W. E.) Historical Collections of Coshocton County, Ohio. 
8vo. . 3 00 

Huston (R. G.) Journey in Honduras, and Jottings by the Way. 
Inter-Oceanro Railway. 8vo. Paper. 50 

Jackson (John D., M. D.) The Black Arts in Medicine, with 
an Anniversary Address. Edited by Dr. L. S. McMurtry. 
12mo. . 1 00 

Jasper (T.) The Birds of North America. Colored Plates, drawn 
from Nature, with Descriptive and Scientific Letterpress. In 
40 parts, $1 00 each ; or, 2 vols. Royal 4to. Half morocco, 
$50 00 ; Full morocco, * 60 00 

Jordan (D. M.) Rosemary Leaves. A Collection of Poems. 

18mo. 1 50 

Keller (M. J.) Elementary Perspective, explained and applied 

' to Familiar Objects. Illustrated. 12mo. 1 00 

King (John.) A Commentary on the Law and True Construc- 
tion of the Federal Constitution. 8vo. 2 50 

King (M.) Pocket-Book of Cincinnati. 24mo, 15 



Robert Clarke & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio. 5 

Klippart (J. H.) The Principles and Practice of Land Drainage. 
Illustrated. ]2mo. 1 75 

Law (J.) Colonial History of Vincennes, Indiana, under the 
French, British, and American Governments. 12mo. 1 00 

Lloyd (J. U.) The Chemistry of Medicines. lUus. 12mo. Cloth, 
$2 75; sheep, _ 3 25 

LoNGi.ET (Elias). Eclectic Manual of Phonography. A Complete 
Guide to the Ac uisition of Pitman's Phonetic Shorthand, 
without or with a Teacher. 12mo. 75 

LoxGLEY (Elias). The Phonetic Reader and Writer, containing 
Reading Exercises, with Translations on opposite pages, which 
form Writing Exercises. 12mo. 25 

LoNGLEY (Elias). Phonographic Chart. 28 x 42 inches. 50 

LoKGLEY (Elias). Phonographic Dictionary, in press. 

LoKGLET (Elias). Reporters Guide, in press. 

McBkide (J.) Pioneer Biography: Sketches of the Lives of 
some of the Early Settlers of Butler County, Ohio. 2 vols. 
8vo. $6 50. Large paper. Imp. 8vo. 13 00 

McLaughlin (M. Louise). China Painting. A Practical Manual 
for the Use of Amateurs in the Decoration of Hard Porcelain. 
Sq. ]2mo. Boards. 75 

McLaughlin (M. Louise). Pottery Decoration :■ being a Practical 
Manual of Underglaze Painting, including Complete Detail of 
the author's Mode of Painting Enameled Faience. Sq. 12mo. 
Bds. 1 00 

MacLean (J. P.) The Mound Builders, and an Investigation into 
the Archseology of Butler County, Ohio, lllus. 12mo. 1 50 

MacLea»(J. P.) AManualof Antiquity of Man. lUus. 12mo. 1 00 

MacLean ( J. P.) Mastodon, Mammoth, and Man. lllus. r2mo. 60 

Mansfield (E. D.) Personal Memories, Social, Political, and 
Literary. 1803-43. ]2mo. 2 00 

Maxypenxy (G. W.) Our Indian Wards: A History and Discus- 
sion of the Indian Question. 8vo. 3 00 

Mat (Col. J.) Journal and Letters of, relative to Two Journeys 
to the Ohio Country, 1788 and 1779. 8vo. 2 00 

Mettenheimer (H. J.) Safety Book-keeping; being a Complete 
Exposition of Book-keepers' Frauds. 12mo. 1 00 

MiN-oK (T. C, M. D.) Child-Bed Fever. Erysipelas and Puer- 
peral Fever, with a Short Account of both Diseases. 8vo. 2 00 

Mik'oe (T. C, M. D.) Scarlatina Statistics of the United States. 
8vo. Paper. . 50 

Morgan (Appleton). The Shakespearean Myth; or, William 
Shakespeare and Circumstantial Evidence. 12mo. 2 00 

Name anu Address Bqok. A Blank Book, with printed Head-* 
ings and Alphabetical Marginal Index, for Recording the 
Names and Addresses of Professional, Commercial, and Family 
Correspondents. Svo. 1 00 

Nash (Simeon). Crime and the Family. 12mo. 1 25 



6 historical and Miscellaneous Publications of 

Nerinckx (Rev. Charles.) Life of, with Early Catholic Mis- 
sions in Kentucky; the Society of Jesus; the Sisterhood of 
Loretto, etc. By Rev. C. P. Maes. 8vo. 2 50 

Nichols (Gr. W.) The Ci«cinnati Organ; with a Brief Descrip- 
tion of the Cincinnati Music Hall. 12mo. Paper. 25 

Ohio Valley Historical Miscellanies. I. Memorandums of a 
Tour Made by Josiah Epsy, in the States of Ohio and Ken- 
tucky, and Indiana Territory, in 1805. II. Two Western Cam- 
paigns in the War of 1812-13: 1. Expedition of Capt. H. Brush, 
with Supplies for General HuH. 2. Expedition of Gov. Meigs, 
for the relief of Fort Meigs. By Samuel Williams. III. The 
Leatherwood God: an account of the Appearance and Preten- 
sions of J. C. Dylks in Eastern Ohio, in 1828. By E. H. Taney- 
hill. 1 vol. 8vo. $2 50. Large paper, 5 00 

Once A Year; or, The Doctor's Puzzle. By E. B. S. 16mo. I 00 

Phisterer (Captain Frederick.) The National Guardsman: on 

Guard and Kindred Duties. 24mo. Leather. 75 

Phtsiciak's Pocket Case Beooed Prescription Book. 35 

Phtsioiak's Gekeeal Ledger. Half Russia. 4 00 

Piatt (John J.) Penciled Fly-Leaves. A Book of Essays in 
Town and Country. Sq. 16mo. 1 00 

Poole (W. F.) Anti-Slavery .Opinions before 1800. An Esisay. 
8vo. Paper, 75o. ; cloth, ' 1 25 

Practical receipts of experienced house-keepers. By the ladies 
of the Seventh Presbyterian Church, Cin. 12mo. 1 25 

Peexttce (Geo. D.) Poems of, collected and edited, with Bio- 
graphical Sketch, by John J. Piatt. 12mo. 2 00 
Quick (R. H.) Essays on Educational Reformers. 12mo. 1 50 

Rakck (G. W.) History of Lexington, Kentucky. Its Early 
Annals and Recent Progress, etc. 8vo. 4 00 

Reembltn{C.) The^ Wine-Maker's Manual. A Plain, Practical 
Guide to all the Operations for the Manufacture of Still and 
Sparkling Wines. 12mo. I 25 

Reemelin (C.) a Treatise on Politics as a Science. 8vo. 1 50 

Reemelin (C.) a Critical Review of American Politics. 8vo. 
In Press. 

Rives (E., M. D.) A Chart of the Physiological Arrangement of 
Cranial Nerves. Printed in large type, on a sheet 28x15 
inches. Folded, in cloth case. 50 

Robert (Karl). Charcoal Drawing with out a Master. A Com- 
plete 'Treatise in Landscape Drawing in Charcoal, with Les- 
sons and Studies after Allonge. Translated by E. H. Apple- 
ton. Illustrated. 8vo 1 00 



Robert Clarke & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio. 7 

EoT (George). Generalship; or, How I Managed my Husband 
A tale. I8mo. Paper, 50c.; cloth, 1 qq 

EoY (George). The Art of Pleasing. A Lecture. 12mo 
Paper. 25 

EoY (George). The Old, Old Story. A Lecture. 12mo. Paper. 25 

Ettssell (A. P.). Thomas Corwin. A Sketch. 16mo. 1 00 

Kttssell (Wm.) Scientific Horseshoeing for the Different Dis- 
eases of the Feet. Illustrated. 8vo. 1 00 

Sayler (J. A.) American Form Book. A Collection of Legal 
and Business Forms, embracing Deeds, Mortgages, Leases, 
Bonds, Wills, Contracts, Bills of Exchange, Promissory Notes, 
Checks, Bills of Sale, Receipts, and other Legal Instruments, 
prepared in accordance with the Laws of the several States ; 
with Instructions for drawing and executing the same. For 
Professional and Business Men. 8vo. 2 00 

Sheets (Mary E.) My Three Angels: Faith, Hope, and Love. 
With full-page illustrations by E. D. Grafton. 4to. Cloth. 
Gilt. 5 00 

Skinner (J. E.) The Source of Measures. A Key to the Hebrew- 
Egyptian Mystery in the Source of Measures, etc. Bvo. 5 00 

Smith (Col. James). A Eeprint of an Account of the Remark- 
able Occurrences in his Life and Travels, during his Captivity 
with the Indians in the years 1755, '56, '57, '58, and '59, etc. 
8vo. $2 50. Large paper, 5 00 

Stanton (H.) Jacob Brown and other Poems. 12mo. 1 50 

St.Clair Papers. A Collection of the Correspondence and other 
papers of General Arthur St.Clair, Governor of the Northwest 
Territory. Edited, with a Sketch of his Life and Public Ser- 
vices, by William Henry Smith. 2 vols. 8vo. 6 00 

Strauoh (A.) Spring Grove Cemetery, Cincinnati: its History 
and improvements, with Observations on Ancient and mod- 
ern Places of Sepulture. The text beautifully printed with 
ornamental, colored borders, and photographic illustrations. 
4to. Cloth. Gilt. 15 00 

An 8vo edition, without border and illustrations. 2 00 

Stdder (J. H.) Columbus, Ohio: its History, Resources, and Pro- 
gress, from its Settlement to the Present Time. 12mo. 2 00 

Taneyhill (E. H.) The Leatherwood God: an account of the 
Appearance and Pretensions of Joseph C. Dylks in Eastern 
Ohio, in 1826. 12mo. Paper. 30 

Ten Brook (A.) American State Universities. Their Origin and 
Progress. A History of the Congressional University Land 
Grants. A particular account of the Rise and Development of 
the University of Michigan, and Hints toward the future 
of the American University System. 8vo. 2 00 



8 Historical and Miscellaneous Publications. 

TiLDEN (Louise W.) Karl and Gretchen's Christmas. Illustrated. 
Square 12ino. 75 

TiLDEN (Louise W.) Poem, Hymn, and Mission Band Exercises. 
Written and arranged for the use of Foreign Missionary Soci- 
eties and Mission Bands. Square 12mo. Paper. 25 

Trent (Capt. Wm.) Journal of, from Logstown to Pickawillany, 
in 1752. Edited by A. T. Goodman. 8vo. 2 50 

Triplek (C. S., M.D.) and Blackman (G. C, M.D.) Handbook for 
the Military Surgeon. 12mo. 1 00 

Tyler Davidson Fountain. History and Description of the 
Tyler Davidson Fountain, Donated to the City of Cincinnati, 
by Henry Probasco. 18mo. Paper. 25 

Vago (A. L.) Instructions in the art of Modeling in Clay. 
With an Appendix on Modeling in Foliage, etc., for Pottery and 
Architectural Decorations, by Benn Pitman, of Cincinnati 
School of Design. Illustrated. Square ]2mo. 1 00 

VanHohne (T. B.) The History of the Army of the Cumberland; 
its Organization, Campaigns, and Battles. Library Edition. 
2 vols. With Atlas of 22 maps, compiled by Edward Euger. 
Svo.Cloth, $8 00; Sheep, $10 00; Half Morocco, $12 00. 
Popular Sedition. Containing the same Text as the Library 
Edition, but only one map. 2 vols. 8vo. Cloth. 5 00 

Venable (W. H.) June on the Miami, and other Poems. Second 
edition. 18mo. 1 60 

VooBHEES (D. W.) Speeches of, embracing his most prominent 
Forensic, Political, Occasional, and Literary Addresses. Com- 
piled by his son, C. S. Voorhees, with a Biographical Sketch 
and Portrait. 8vo. 5 00 

Walker (C. M.) History of Athens County, Ohio, and inci- 
dentally of the Ohio Land Company, and the First Settlement 
of the State at Marietta, etc. Svo. $6 00. Large Paper. 2 
vols. $12 00. Popular Edition. 4 00 

Walton (G. E.) Hygiene and Education of Infants; or, How 
to take care of Babies. 24m o. Paper. 25 

Ward (Durbin). American Coinage and Currency. An Essay 
read before the Social Science Congress, at Cincinnati, May 
22, 1878. Svo. Paper. 10 

Webb (F.) and Johnston (M. C.) An Improved Tally-Book, for 
the use of Lumber Dealers. ISmo. 50 

Whittakbr (J. T., M. D.) Physiology; Preliminary Lectures. 
Illustrated. 12mo. 1 75 

Williams (A. D., M. D.) Diseases of the Ear, iiicluding Neces- 
sary Anatomy of the Organ. Svo. 3 50 

YouKe (A.) History of Wayne County, Indiana, from its First 
Settlement to the Present Time. 8vo. 2 00 




K%i ' 



