
IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 



I.I 



... 13 2 



K. 



|Z2 

m ^ 

l« III 2.0 



1.8 





1.25 


1.4 


1.6 




^ 


6" 




► 



V] 



<? 



'<?} 



e". 



a 



/} 



■ <r> 



^. 



*^/ 




O 



/ 






^' 



Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, NY. 14580 

(716) 872-4503 




CIHM/ICMH 

Microfiche 

Series. 



CIHM/ICMH 
Collection de 
microfiches. 




Canadian Institute for Historical JVIicroreproductions Institut Canadian de microreproductions historiques 

1980 



Technical and Bibliographic Notes/Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has att ^ipted to obtain the best 
original copy available for filming. Features of this 
copy which may be bibliographically unique, 
which may alter any of the images in the 
reproduction, or which may significantly change 
the usual method of filming, are checked below. 



Linstitut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire 
qu'il lui a 6t6 possible de se procurer. Les details 
de cet exemplaire qui sont peut-dtre uniques du 
point de vue bibliographique, qui peuvent modifier 
une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une 
modification dans la methode normale de filmage 
sont indiquds ci-dessous. 



n 



Coloured covers/ 
Couverture de couleur 



□ Coloured pages/ 
Pages de couleur 



□ Covers damaged/ 
Couverture endommag^e 



□ Pages damaged/ 
Pages endommag^es 



□ Cov 
Cou 



Covers restored and/or laminated/ 
verture restaur6e et/ou pelliculde 



□ Pages restored and/or laminated/ 
Pages restaur^es et/ou pelliculees 



□ Cover title missing/ 
Le titre de couverture manque 



□ Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 
Pages ddcolordes, tachet6es ou piqu^es 



I I Coloured maps/ 



Cartes gdographiques en couleur 



□Pages detached/ 
Pages detach^es 



D 



Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black)/ 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 



I I Showthrough/ 



Transparence 



J 



Coloured plates and/or illustrations/ 
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 



n Quality of print varies/ 
Qualite in^gale de I'impression 



D 



Bound with other material/ 
Relid avec d'autres documents 



□ Includes supplementary material/ 
Comprend du materiel supplementaire 



y 



D 



Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion 
along interior margin/ 

La reliure serree peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distortion ie long de la marge intdrieure 

Blank leaves added during restoration may 
appear within the text. Whenever possible, these 
have been omitted from filming/ 
II se peut que certaines pages blanches ajout^es 
lors d'une restauration apparaissent dans le texte, 
mais, lorsque cela 6tait possible, ces pages n'ont 
pas dt6 filmdes. 



D 



V 



Only edition available/ 
Seule Edition disponible 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata 
slips, tissues, etc., have been refilmed to 
ensure the best possible image/ 
Les pages totalement ou partiellement 
obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une pelure, 
etc., ont 6t6 film^es d nouveau de fagon S 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 



D 



Additional comments:/ 
Commentaires suppl^mentaires: 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

Ce document est film6 au taux de reduction indiqud ci-dessous. 

10X 14X 18X 22X 



26X 



30X 





















y 
































12X 16X 20X 24X 28X 32X 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

La Bibliothdque de la Ville de Montreal 



L'exemplaire filmd fut reproduit grdce A la 
g6n6rosit6 de: 

La Bibliotheque de la Ville de Montreal 



The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Les images suivantes ont 6t6 reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition et 
de la nettet^ de l'exemplaire filmd, et en 
conformity avec les conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a pr'inted 
or illustrated impression. 



Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprimde sont film6s en commenpant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
dernidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, selon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont filmds en commenpant par la 
premidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la dernidre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol — ^- (meaning "CON- 
TIMUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 



Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
dernidre image de chaque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole — »- signifie "A SUIVRE", le 
symbole V signifie "FIN". 



Maps, piates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Les cartes, planches tableaux, etc., peuvent dtre 
film^s d des taux de reduction diff^rents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour dtre 
reproduit en un seul cliche, it est filmd d partir 
de Tangle sup^rieur gauche, de gauche d droite, 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la m^thode. 



1 


2 


3 




32X 



1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 




Bank St. Presbyterian Church. 



OTTAWA 



I { 



KCON'^fl^"'' 



i mmK o* 



\> Xm TESTKI) illvl^EII'TS. 



T»r LAOStS' A8SOCIi*riON OF BANK STREET CHURCH, OTTAWA, 
TO IIK l)JV».Tl-:i> TO TtIK CJiUnCM. 



Prioe t2dd. 



:'^ 






5 ? r 



* • * 






.1. »ios!: A Co, 



r' 



DA 



JkMV«^li<l«: ^.(M c*VA* 



-^rrERiz-'N Cm 



U' 



M"* 



rur. 



CANADIAN ECONOMIST, 



A llOoK OF 



TRIED AND TESTED liECElTTS. 



COMPILKl) l!V 

MEMBERS OF THE LADIES ASSOCIATION OF BANK STREET CHURCH, OTTAWA. 
TlIK PROFITS TO HK DK VOTKD TO TJltl CllUllCH. 







* 




Price $2.00. 




« 
• • 




• 
* 


• 
• 


, • I • . ^ » 

• • . * o ■- • 

» • • J 





'\.^ 



» * «-. 



IMTBLTSHKI) 'BV' Al.hX\t. MORTIMKR 

TORONTO; II INTEH, li().S!<: .V CO. 
18«1. 



Kiitered accordiutj; to Act of Parliament of Canada, in the year one 
thousand eight hundred and eighty-one, hy Alkxh. Mohtjmkr, 

ill the 



olHce of the Minister of Agriculture. 



48237a 









* k • 



• " j-RiTnTKu nv 
llr.NTKR, Husk & Co., 

TORO.NtO.J ' 'j 



t * > • * 



» • • • 



Ei 



! year one 

loKTIMKR, 



'riiv. Ga-^roDomic is a monf honoitrahfe (irf, 
II'i</h (tad low, since (Hifiqitltf/s emiicst dawn, 
h'iD'iched have its annals and ini<ji's with (dl their heart. 

Canada is tJte land in wJtulh this art flon r'lshes, 
And whose soil is fertile in rich materials, 
Xtdnre has designed that these most worthif sciences 
And knowledge of etdlvvt/ and livimj, which thas tells 
Ifindij, it inay well he, on '' Natiowd Policies" 
in the household, reacts with most potod spells, 
A nd iiijiaevces minds, even more than richcfi. 
Xoble ''Lords of Creation^' their passion for save-all 
dispels. 

Kpicitreans and poets have sung its praises ; 

CooJvS and fair ladles have added to its lanrels ; 

Old and ijoawj (dike have croivned It with many graces, 

Nats, oranges, creams and sweet-scented caramids ; 

Onions, batter, beef and a variety of sauces 

Midce a combination, fal ry-llke iveavlng their spells 

In this book, that you will discover embraces 

l^oyers recipes, and some others which thus foretells 

The end of our acrostic without devices. 



I 



N 




liNTIIODUCTION. 



TN Noudinj^ lortli tlu' Economist to a criticising world 
tho Ladies' Association of" Bank Street ( 'liurcli 
A\ oiild d«>precate as little criticism of it as possilVie. 

in conii)iling tliis woik tlicy luive had two olyects in 
iew ; first, to realize money for tlie benefit of their 
•linrch (a litliograph of whicli can he seen in the front 
of the book); and, secondly, as tlie majority of tliese re- 
•ijK's have been used and proved gocxl l»y people of very 
moderate incomes, they know they are valuable.. an«l feel 
issured that they will benefit the r/fncral piihlic, by pu))- 
lishing a book of recipes essentially suited to American 
louseholds. 

They have worked on the principles embodied in the old 
)roverbs, " Econonw is the poor man's revenue, extrav- 
igance is the rich man's ruin," and as these recipes are ele- 
gant, economical and wholesom^, they would, therefore, 
bmmend the " ( ^ookery Book " to every house-keeper in 
[he Dominion of Canada, and in the neighbouring United 
Btates. 







i 



■4 




AMOVriMHH I.ITH OTTAWA 



In this Book you will find various contributions 
From brave jhivalrio sons and fairest daughters, 
Who, worshipping Canadian soil and Institutions 
Love,the emblems of the lands of iheir fathers. 
And desire to unite them, with their own dear nations 
Beautiful, Maple-Leaves, and very popular, Seavers. 




^^•t.^ fc. #* 






IT y^ \ 



" ^ 



^•? 




x 



J 



4i>RrlWII(l l-ITH OTTAW 



', MnatT- wH« I,' f* 



Aud *l»o to lire, in o]o8« fraternal oonlnnctfon 
With their beloved brethryfv,ov0r th* i>' nlen!, 
y&rnwoll : Be rint dicmaye.f a? Oi^ oo'jetritcffnn 
t>f »-er?e8. and rj^thin. b/puoli utapid rhrsnera, 
\ivt [wk oc the •' C<>»(kery Bo«)lr " irjjjb »««np«*8ion 
/"n«oJa, i>fttroaVnl«li. low. wnl good o«ij(hlH>un, all. 



"r 






\ i 



/ 



/ 



r 









If ■•^:; 









"9 




™ 



■•«&: 




\ 



^^^'ji- 



I. 



h. 



u 






I" 



.^' 




LiTU ort^ 



In till,' Br^k you will find varioup oontribuUcaa 
From brav-! ciiiralric aotis and fairest d;tu«hters, 
Who, worshicping (Canadian i<<.il »aU luetitutioiv) 
Lorejtlie embloDas of tli«? Uodu of tbolr fatberft. 
And d«.nr6 to unite thetn, with th»u own dear fiatioaa 
Beautifui, Mtiple-Loavoe, and v»ry ixipalar, B«aver», ■ 




ci>«riu&B :.^:i. a 



A.Mr>«rtMn n 



And also to live, in close fraternal conjunction 
With their beloved brethren.over the borders. 
Farewell : Be not dismayed at the construction 
Of verses, and rythm, by such stupid rhytnera, 
But look on the " Cookery Book " wipi oompaasion 
Friends, patron8,high, low, and good neighbours, all. ' 



il 



■ 


cont 


': ' 1 


thei 


^H 


ence 


^^1 


T 


I 


whe 


m 


" be; 


^1 
^ 1 


citie 
seen 


I 


of ai 


^ 1 


one 


I 


give 


1 


of w 


- . : ..|. - ■ 


nece 


1 


less. 


■;"'■ 1 


you 


1 


sion, 


1 


• 








PRKFACE. 



MANY " Cookery Books" are written by people who 
never kept liouse ; who give the theory, hut for- 
get tliat practice is as necessary to acconiphsli anything 
like success in this as in every otlier attainnu'nt in lite. 
f Such is not the case, however, with the compilers of, and 
contributors to, this book. Many of them have learned 
their lessons well from that ar})itrary teacher, " Experi- 



ence. 



The writer well remembers her trials in culinary affairs 

when living in the country, " far up the ( )ttawa River," 

" beyond the bounds of civilization," as our friends in the 

cities^ called it then. When poring over cookery books it 

: seemed as if one rjevtsr could find a recipe that would be 

I of any practical use, and if you did happen to come across 

- one that appeared to be nice, not one ingredient that was 
given had you in your house, and another had to be tried, 

f of which, perhaps, you had all or some of the materials 

- necessary at hand ; and, oh, the vile compound 1 it was use- 
less. And then the climax — the brea«l-m;ikinn;. When 
you discovered that you had a "cannon ball ' in posses- 

I sion, rather than so much of the " staff of life," what ut- 



■ 1 



VUI 



P)V'fncr. 



11 



1-1' 

v\\ 






m 



ter prostrutioii t<K)k hold of you ! Bui kind nciglibours 
came alouo- witli recipes whicli tliey had tried and proved 
both simple and ^ood ; and then honse-keepinn- seemed 
easy. 

A few years a^o in DttuAva it was very difficult to gat 
o()od servants: ladies, wives and daughters who were old 
enough had to turn their attention to <lomestic matters. 
OnenunnlK^r of a family would takeadepartment,in which 
she would try to jieifect herself: and so on with the 
others, each taking a branch in which she ac<piire<l 
a pre-eminence. And now many families are not afraid, 
when they are minus a servant, to attend to woik which 
liefore they were unaljle to do. 

Every househohl work has generally a page or pages 
devoted to etiquette : cticpu'tte for ladies, eti(piette for gen- 
tlemen, eti<iuette for bieakfasts. luncheons, dinners, sup- 
pers, kc. But as this is a work wiitten especially for the 
benefit of a church.we shall, perhaps, be pardoned if we only 
touch on etiquette for (Jhi-istian men and women. The 
Christian woman who shows in her daily life the fruits of 
the spirit which St. I'aul so carefully enmnerates, is to all 
intents and purposes the true lady ; for society, as well 
as Christianity, requires love, joy, peace, long-sutfei-ing, 
gentleness, goodness, and all things that are lovely ; and 
the intellect and (he heart are both involved in the mak- 
ing of a gentleman, 'fo those who go to the same church, 
who sit down with us at the same communion table, and 
whom we meet Sabbath after Sal)bath, we should show 
unfailing courtesy of manner, and do them a kindness 



iglibours 
d lyroved 
;• seemed 

lit to got 
were old 
matters, 
in will ell 
vith tlie 
ae(inire<l 
)t afraid, 
k wliieli 

r)r pao-es 
^ for uen- 
ers, sup- 
y for the 
' we only 
n. The 
fruits of 
i.s to all 
, as well 
iitteiing, 
sly; and 
he mak- 
i church, 
ble, and 
Id show 
:indness 



I 



I I lit I . .v 



-« ,< l<lll l . l 1 1 




Prcf'trc. 



IX 






wlicn Nve fan. An«l to tliuse ]>el<>n<;inL!j to otluM- clnirelu'S 
svo sljotiM sliow ^^ood-will and |ilensantn(>ss, feeling tliat 
ltli()n,y:li wo may Ih' divide*! Iuto, we slmll till trjuh t()nu'('t 
[at last " Beyond the river." 

Wo Avill take, as a model of a |)]easant liomc, a cottajj^o 
ionsistini;- of a kitelieii, diniui^ room, parlour, hed-rooms, 
^'C, pre.sided over l)y a mistress who is ably assisted l»y 
)jie freneral servant, and speak of each division separately. 

In sneli l»ooks a list of kitehen-wareand nt^cessary uten- 
sils is usually given, hut we sliall not thus eneroaeh upon 
tlie limits of the Economist, as we arc satisfied that 
even the poorest ean procure the needful vessels in which 
to cook, if they can ordv tin<l directions within their 
a\ailal)Ie means:. These the P^conomist professes to 
furnish. 

J'o those kind friends who have so ireneronslv assisted 
lis by their contribntioiis and suhscrij)tions, we tender our 
giateful thanks, and trust that this hook may be of use 
til in my. 



NuiK. Siiipo those |>a.<,'es were written. Bank Street Clmrch has, Ity a 
Di i. ke<l act of iiu'eii(liiirisiii,lu'en devastated, and its interior defaced. Tlicra 
{JR MOW more need than ever that the sale of thin book Hhould he vervireneral. 





"TIIK KITCIIKN." 



,v. 



A 



/ 






AK1T( 'HKN slwMild l)c liglit and clu'ciful, Wliat is so 
|>lrasanta si^ditasji ])ii^ht, and vvi'll-kcpt kitchen ! 
It is d»'li<ditliil to visit such an one and see the oiiicht dress- 
crs, poHshed stove, clean Hoor, and orderly and neat talues. 
It seems to us, that, after all, there is a <^food deal of hap- 
j)ines to he found in it, when one has to make her livin*^ 
as a servant, if she would try to excel in all points neces- 
sary to make a capable ami efficient maid, whom her 
employers find so essential to theii- comfort that they 
would not like to part with her. 

We do find such i^nrls occasionally, hut not very often. 
I'erhaps it is the fault of the employers that they are not 
more frequently met with. 

The chief complaint urged a<ifainst this class of servants 
is, that they are slovenly in their hahits, and execute no 
|>oition of their work well. How can it be othtMwise \ 
A 1,'enei-al servant is at the beck and call of every one, 
and is reijuired at any moment either to run on an errand, 
<(>ok a meal, answer a bell, or wait at table. All these 
occupations disturb her from tie us'ial routine of house- 
<leaning,and are more se.'ious iLterruptions than thought- 
less employfioai*^ willing to believe. It Iii fiir.ilies whei'e 
'>nly one servant is kept, the <iaughte!rs were rc(|uired to 
ivnder r';^*ular assistance m house-hold work, the case 
would Ik diffe!ent; tlii3 latter v/ouKl l>^ in training to 
I'ecome the niistr-i^.-iS's yii homes r.nd 'th< servant woidd 
not be the domestic slave she is in reality, when recpiired 



XII 



The Kitchen, 



to toil throughout the day witliout liel}). VVhtne only 
one servant is kept, and no assistance <i;iv(^n, there can he 
little choice of work. The servant must do what she can 
wljen she can ; and v/hat she cannot do she must leave 
undone. But, when her employers, by a well-considered 
plan of work, assist in hoasehold ir»bours of the lighter 
kind, there need be no difficidty in one servant getting 
through as much work comfortably to herself, as most 
families retjuire, and here it would be well to remaik that 
it is in doing these things which a mistress or a daughter 
may best do for theiuselvcs, that a servant's time is lost. 
In washing china, glass, dusting and arranging furniture, 
books, ornaments, Arc, a servant of all work sjH-nds the 
most valuable hours of the <lay, and <>ven when the work 
is done, the rooms have no^ that well-ordered a])pearance 
wiiich is evident to the most casual observer, when a lady 
has assisted in it. Only those servants who have a char- 
acter for being thoi-oughly cleanly and industrious, .should 
be engaged. Such an one will rise early in the moining 
and get the "dirty work " done l)efore the family are down. 
By dirty work is meant sweeping the kitchen, cleaning 
the mates, lightin*^ fires, siftiiiir cinders, tillini; coal-scut- 
ties, and cleaning knives and boots. If gentlemen recjuire 
their boots early in the; morning, and have them off late 
at night, they can hardly expect to have them ready and 
well poli.shed unless two pairs are kept in use. This 
necessary, portion of the work being finished, the servant 
should change the dress she has worn and put on a tidy 
one for bringing in breakfast, sweeping I'ooms, making 
beds, &;c. Where no suqji ijdes^ ai'e enforced, the dirty 
work is in .hau'd all; dJtyi, a6d ^h^ servant's appearance 
betokens tl)e\h6pbless muddle, in* which ,she%iives. "The 
chief polfits'for a mistress"iO enforce m ijdi' |iitchen arc 
cleanliness and strict econoniyV* It is her dutV t^ .^ee that 
her servant has >;veiy lliio^ pl'opei' foj-Jjer use. Having 
done so, she sh^dd be Jts/carc^uf of 'Kev J.^ousehold uten- 
sils and linen as she is of her parlolir" furniture. A 



The Kitchen. 



Xlll 



V'hcre only 
here can 1»<* 
liat she can 
must leave 
-conyidered 
the lightn- 
fint gettin--' 
»lf, as most 
remark that 
a (laughtet- 
time is lost.^ 
g t'urniturer 
spends the 
m the work 
a|)|>earanee 
when a lady 
lave a char- 
•ious, should 
:,he morning 
ly are down, 
en, cleaning 
(T coal-scut- 
men recjUirc 
u-m ofi' latt' 
I ready and 
use. ' This 
the servant 
it on a tidy 
ns, making 
I, the dirty 
a|)])earance 
ves. " The 
kitchen arc 
U<* hee that 
i! * Having 
ehold uten- 
niture. A 






thoughtful mistress will he careful not to impose any 
labour which would be liable to soil the afternoon dress. 
Least of all would a considerate eniployer begrudge the 
few hours of leisure a servant miglithave accpiired a right 
to enjoy, by diligent working. The habit many ladies 
]v\\v. of tilling in al' the .servant's spare time has been pro- 
ductive of the .slovenly appeai-auv^e and dawdling ways of 
women of the Geneial Servant cla.ss. They, like their 
einployer, require vest at the (hiy's close; time to read, 
time to write to their friend.s, and time to mend and niiike 
their clothes." 

Let me appeal to tliis class of our feUow-beings, to give 
more attention to cleanliness and habits of order, to have 
a place for everything, and keep everything in its place; 
then shall they be more respected, and obtain the best 
positions in their station in life ; and " Kitchen " and the 
fairy who sways supremely there, shall ])e .synonymous 
with all that is pure, clean, cheerful and bright. 





" THE DINIXG-llOOM." 



ri'^IIK name seems eommon-pLice, but wliat hosts ot" 



i 




3 



memories a)"e ealleil forth by the sound of the nam 
" Tlie Dining-room. " 

Tmaginati(jn paints an«l early recollections cluster round 
a (lining, which was also the living loom of a family. Two . 
liii'ht elieerful windows overlooked a lovely Ljanleii, and i 
the "blue waters" of the Lake Ontaiio. In one of the 
windows stood the Hower-stand, on which, nourishe<l by 
the liiiht which came from that Iniuht window, wore th< 
pure Calla lily, the blooming hydrangea, the delicate he- 
liotrope, and the much-loved mignonette. Among theii 
leaves roved at will two sweet little pet canaries, whose 
throats warbled melodious notes, wafting one away to 
" regions beyond." The old-fash ione<l mantel on which [ 
were sea-shells, telling wonderful stories to childish ears. 
In winter the large "l)()x-stove" diffusinijijratefid warmth 
and coud'ort in the room. In a recess, in which it just 
fitted, stood the mahogany sideboard, on the top of which 
rest(!d the liible, which was brought down for family 
worship, morning and evening, with scarcely an omission 
for years. The long sofa, before which stood the (lining- 
room table, on which the cloth was hiid, and meals served 
there three times a day ; and around which, father, mothei', 
and eight chihlren — meny sisters and stalwart Inotheis t 
— sat year after year. Here wit sparkled, cheerfulness | 
reigned, mirth abounded; friends came and went, and 
710W that the home is broken uj), those brothers and sis- 



wi 



^ 



\y 



I 



3 



liosts of 
thenaiiH' 

;tor i-ouikI 
iily. Two 
,r(l('ii, aivl 
nie of tlif 
irislu'il l»y J 
, were tlif ^ 
}licate hv- ' 
ong their j 
ies, wliosf . 
; away t'> j 
on whieli j 
Idish ears. , 
111 warmth 
(*h it just 
p of whicli 
or family 
\ omission 
lie (liniiiL;- 
L'alssevve<l 
cr, mother, 
t hrotlieis 
leerfuhiess 
went, and 
MS and sis- 




;Iea 



The Dininfj-room. 



XV 



bers scattered (one parent and one sister gone to the 
' l)etter land "), memory carries us back to that dining- 
loom which ever had and will ever have a hallowed place 
in our childhood's reminiscences, and in the inmost re- 
cesses of our hearts. 

There is hardly anything in h()use-kee]>ing, that more 
iurely promotes the comfort of a family and ensures com- 
fort and respoctaltility than a well-set family table. Jt 
should be covered with a cloth clean and neat; the various 

lishes of footl shouhl be arranged with an eye to symme- 

ry ; it is so much i)leasure to even an uncultivated eye 
see things look nicely, that it is worth the trouble ; and, 

.'sides, the exercise of taste an<l care is economical. 

'iR's'e are small matters, you will })erhaps say, but it is 
\y such things a perscm is judged. Then, why not culti- 
vate such tastes as aie most agreeable to others. Domes- 
lie arrangements Ix'longing entiii^ly to the mistress, the 
table, of course, is entitled to a large share of her atten- 
pon. Taste and ju<lgment are very requisite here, because 
good and res|)ectable meal depends on the neatness and 
jlcaidiness with which the whole is served up. Breakfast 
say at eight o'clock — the family assemble. In summer, 
uitsarein seascm and may be ])artaken of first, then 

)()rridge ; aftei' which any dish or dishes of meat, eggs, i!s:c., 
that may be prepared, can be put on the table, with vege- 
lal)les or potatoes, fried or baked, and the beverages may 
j>e coffee, tea, chocolate, cocoa, and kaoka. Certainly the 
[are j)artaken of v^aries with the means of the family, but 
Ihe veiv poorest in this country can follow the same 
[ourseand keepii " table " at which H. K. II. OUH Princess 

night sit down, if they would only practise thorough 
[It-aidiness, use plenty of soap and water, and keep them- 

ilves and their children in a more presentable state than 

lu'v have yet dcme. 
Dinner at one o'clock. — Soup, first course; fish; then 

it'at and vc^getables ; next, the pu«ldiiig course, &c., after 

diich comes the fruit <leSsert, apples, nuts, &.c.. 



m 






XVI 



The Dinivg-voom. 



But, for people who keep these early hours, the hest 
meal of the day is the six o'clock tea. The good, generous 
meal for which wo like to have something idee for the 
principal dish ; it may be a tender sirloin steak, fricasseed 
oysters, smoking hot sweet-breads, or hest of all, a splen- 
did Finnon haddie, done to the turn, with nice gravy. 
After all, there is nothing like our good (Canadian Cookery, 
It may be very nice when we travel to find hotels, like 
the " United Hotel," St. James's Scpiare, London ; " Ilotil 
de Lille et <VAlbion," Paris ; " Revere Hogse," Boston ; 
" Fifth Avenue Hotel," New York ; but give us for com- 
fort and health, the delicious " Home Cookery ' to whicli 
we turn when every other becomes insipid to our taste. 







sfi> 



i 

I 



mw 



US, the l)est 
yd, generous 
nice for the 
k, fricasseed 
all, a spleii- 
nice gravy, 
an Cookery, 
hotels, like 

I ,„ . « TT.,1 1 
lUll , XJ.Utl.1 

ie," Boston ; 
us for coni- 
r ' to which 
our taste. 



"THE rAIiLOl'R." 



THIS is a very useful as well as an ornn mental room. 
Here the elegant triHes and the cheiished memen- 
toes of friends find a place, and it is always in order to 
receive callers and entertain friends. 

Tlie Parlour of the " Home Cottage" is recalled to 
memory as a very pleasant room. 

In it friends met year after year. Many pleasant eveii- 
infj parties passed the "sweet hours away." 

In this apartment lovers trysted, ami more than one 
])ride crossed the tlireshold to enter on the arena of mar- 
ried life. Bridegrooms bi'ought their brides to the pater- 
nal roof, to be received in that clieerful parlour. In it a 
sick mother spent many years in the latter en<l of her 
life, and it is endeared to the remembrances of many, 
because of these fond and tender recollections. There is 
a species of parlour magic in which we should all indulge ; 
viz., the magic of cultivating a sunny temper. This makes 
a perpetual summer within — be the weather what it may 
without. It makes a long day short; a dull day bright, 
They that have this sunny temper are certainly a bless- 
ing to themselves as well as to all around them. No 
sorrow can keep this sunny temperament long in wretched- 
ness, however deeply felt. This sweet temper will try to 
make the best of everything by endeavouring to soothe, 
to comfort, to charm. 

Opposed to this sweet temper, is B.\D Temper, which 
some people think is allied to insanity. Says the Popu- 



xviii 



Tlie Parlour. 



lar Science Mimthhj : " Pa.sHicmate people — the hasty kind 
— who Hare up in a hla/o, like fire to tow, or a coal to 
jiowder, without takinm^ tiiiu! to enquire whether there is 
Miiy ground for such a pyrotechnic display, an<l then get 
more furious when they find out there was no cause for 
their fiery feats, may learn a useful as well as a s(»rious 
lesson from an item in Di-. Blanchard's icpcjit of the 
King's County Lunatic Asylum, that three men and three 
women Lecanie insane hy uncontroUahle temper. 

We all feel a sympathy for one who has become de- 
mented from loss of kindred, from disaj)pointment, and 
I'rom a hard lot in life ; but we can have no such feeling 
for quarrelsome, ill-nattned, fretful, fault-finding, com- 
j)laining, gruml)ling creatures, the greater part of whose 
every-day life tends to make those whose calamity it is 
to be ])ound to them, as miserable as themselves. Ba<l 
temper is a crime, and like other crimes, is ordained in 
the course of nature to meet sooner or later its merited 
reward. Other vile passions may have some points of 
(extenuation, the pleasure for example which may attend 
their indulgence, but ill-nature — that is a fretful, fault- 
finding spirit, in its origin, action, and end, has no exten- 
uating (juality ; and in the application of the old principle, 
with what measure ye mete, it shall V)e measured to you 
again, w^ill find a most pitiable end. 

Therefore with all the power that has been given yon. 
strive and strive for life, to mortify this deed of the Hesh. 
Watch hourly, watch every moment against the indul- 
gence of a hasty temper, as being oft'ensive to yourself, 
and contemptible in the eyes of your fellowman — con- 
temptible, because for the person who possesses it, and 
knows it, yet indulges in it, and makes no eflTective efi[brt> 
to restrain it, no human being can have any abiding! 
attachment or resf)ect, founded as it is in low morals, orj 
low intellect, or both. 

Let us then cultivate the magic charm which creates so| 
much pleasure for others, and gives to ourselves " Peack. 



T/te Pari our. 



XIX 



Our (■ottagf Home is to ln' pnisidod over by a mistress 
who neglects nothing, who regulates and superintends her 
household concerns with care and taste, and who is a good 
manager without an ostentatious display of maimgement ; 
elegantly dressed without heing a slave to dress; aeeom- 
plisheil and well read, and yet able to kt-ep her house in 
order. 

If a mistress has good health, plenty of time, and much 
patience, the best way to «»nsure conjfoit in her homo is 
t() train her servant herself. She niust consider the girl 
as ln'r pupil, and make her stri«'tly amenable to rules, 
from which no departure should be peiniitted. Hrr 
work must Ix; ananged, every duty being perfoinied in 
regular order. 

In the intercour.se of " Domesfie Life," both ndstresa 
and mai<ls have to " Bear and Forbear." 

(Jood temper in a wife, mother, and mistress is indee<l 
indispensable. The foundation of a happy home lests 
undoubtedly with the heads of a family. They can sur- 
round their hearths with an atmosphere of moral purity, 
gentleness, truth, and love, and their children will uatu)- 
ally ind)ibe the .same, and the result will be characters in 
harmony with such a home. Great is the influence of 
brothers and sisters, an<l very responsible are they for 
intluencin<r the n\inds of each otlu.'r. How often we wi.sh 
that we could live oui- lives over again ! How ditferently 
we would act in the Hom«' Circle ! We would b<' more 
ready with th(; '" soft answer" and forbearing love, which 
constitute its happiness, and the small still sw(!et cijurtc- 
sies of love which make Home hai)py. " Oh ! how good 
and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in 
unity." Domestic Economy should be )>iactise(l by per- 
Isons of limited incomes. " Never forget to have a penny," 
taught Franklin, " when all thy expenses arc pai<i, then 
shalt thou reach the point of happiness, and independence 
jshall be thy shield and buckler, thy helmet an<l crown, 
It lieu shall thy soul walk uprightly." 



XX 



Tlui Parlour. 



To preservo a house in the })eHt possihle order, t<j Imve 
a kiio\vkMl«^e ofinakin<r up neceHsary linen, tSjc, and to hr 
learned in divers processes of cookery, are essential in 
order to have a pleasant home, and we should remember 
that, " Knowledge is Power" only when it fits us for the 
station in which we find ourselves placed. In every home 
there shouM always be a pleasant welcome for friends. 
In no home is there perfect hap[)iness, we shall have to 
look to our " Heavenly Home " for that ; but, be assui'ed, 
we can do much, to make our earthly habitations glow 
with comfort, peace, and joy. 



■ I 
\ 






•^ij^ 



^■'^- 



sr, Uj Imve 
and to Ix' 
sential in 
roinembcr 
UH for the 
very home 
)r friends, 
ill have to 
ie assui-ed, 
:ions glow 




i 




k4 rp 



I'HE BKDUOOMS."' 



. v/*/ w'w' » 'fcyv/-vy'>-\^-_ ".-vv^- ' 



[ri'^HESE should be light, airy apartments; if simply 
_L furnished, so much the better. 

Who does not know, in a large family-, the value of a 
nice bedroom ? A room to which you can retire in mo- 
ments of leisure : for seclusion ; for study, and for obtain- 
jiiiL,^ rest. Even half-an-hour's rest, in such a room is 
grateful to one engaged in teaching, or any other wearying 
•inployment. 

How often has the young aspiring poet breathed forth 
])()etical effusions of no common merit in his " rooviV 
And the first compositions which in their results often 
ad 10 authorship. 

Often indeed, have the first dawnings of genius in one 
wlio afterwards became, perhaps renowned as a paintei-, 

■LTun in a bedroom. 

These rooms then hold an important place in a *' Cot- 
liLif Home," and should be kept thoroughly clean, ordei'ly 
iiid neat. The servant's bedroom, we would just notice 
H'lv, as l»eing in general very badly kept. How is it, 
lliat tliis class have such an aversion to cleanliness ;■ Some 
lailics, from motives of delicacy, feeling that every per- 
oiis room is their own, do not often visit their servant's 
loom, and how are they rewarded ? If on some excep- 
tional occasion, they may be obliged to go to them, words 
fvouM I'ail to describe the confusion and filtli they often 
in(l there. Any girls who value theii' girlhood, their mo- 



XXll 



The licdrooinff. 



(lesty, their future lives, as wives and mothers, will shun 
such habits, and if they have not time during the day, 
they virill take an hour from tlieir mornino^ slumbers, to 
keep their room as it should be kept. " Home," what n 
world of interest is crowded into that talismanic word. 
What holy memories and soul-ins])iring' associations sur- 
round that sacred shrine. " Our Clnldliood's Happy 
Home." What a beautiful sentiment that is " There is 
no place like 'Home." If we would wish to have our 
children revere their homes ; honour their parents ; love 
their brothers and sisters ; and live in unity with their 
fellow-beings: we must make our homes what they should 
be, models of Godliness and Cleanliness. 





CONTENTS. 



rilAl'TEH. VM.n 

I. — Coffee, Tea, Chocolate, Cocoa asu Kaoka .... 1 

II.— Soups 12 

III.- Oysters 33 

IV. — Clam, Loksters, Crabn, etc 42 

v.— Fish axd Frocs 48 

YI.— Savoury Sauces 64 

VII.— BriEF, ^alt and Fresh ' 84 

VIII.- Pork and Hams 101 

IX. — Veal and Sweetrreads 125 

X.— Mutton and Lamb 148 

XI. — Poultry' and Gamk 161 

XII. — Vegetables 181 

XIII. — Yeast, Bread and Bis<aiT 204 

XIV.— Tea and Breakfast Cakes 221 

XV.— Mush, Oatmeal, Rice, et«- 272 

XVI.-Ma<ahoni 277 

XVII.-E«os 282 

IXYIII.-Salad,^ 291 

XIX.— Pastry and Pies 209 

XX.— PUDDINOS 318 

XXI.— Fried Cream, Batter Puddinos, Fritters and 

Dough-nuts 351 

XXII. -Pudding Sauces 361 



XXIV 



Contents. 



CHAPTER, PAtiE 

XXIII.— -Home-made Extra* ts 3(i7 

XXIV.— Mbimnoues 371 

XXV". — Custards, Creams, et(! 375 

XX VI. — Ice-creams, Water-ices and Fkustin*; 3!):i 

XXVII. — Take, Cookies and Gincer-bread 3ll'J 

XXVIIl. — Sandwiches, Breakfast and Tea Relish s, 

Entrees, Croqcetts, etc 44:5 1 

XXIX. — Savoury Jellies and Jellies 455 

XXX. —Cheese, Dairy and Cows 45*.) 

XXXI. — Pickles and Catsup 403 

XXXII. — Preserving and Canning Fruit 478 

XXXIII.— Candy 4i)5 

XXXIV.— Pickling Brine .500 

XXXV, — Washing and Cleaning 50"»j 

XXXVI.— To Banish Vermin .513 

XXX VI I. — General Information SIOJ 

XXXVIII.-The Comp.lexion, Hair, Teeth, etc r)2".l 

XXXIX. — Summer and other Bevrisages 0291 

XL. —Cookery for the Sick f)35| 

XLI. — Specifics and Remedies 54lj 

XLI I.— Miscellanea 550! 

Bills of Fare for Family Meals Hfilj 

Blank Pages vok Ac(;ounts, et<^ r»(WJ 

Addenda 57-'j 

CoNi'LUSTON ol\\ 

Index. 57a 




PA(;F, ^m jA. 

Oi 1 I 

. 3');; 
^''■'~ CHAPTER t. 

^^'^M COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, COCOA AND KAOKA 

4i5ii ^^ 

*^'*H T'^ ^^ allowed that coffee promotes digestion, and ex- 

403 H J_ hilarates the animal spirits ; besides which various 

478H other qualities are ascribed to it, such as dispelling Hatu- 

495H lency, removing dizziness of the head, attenuating viscid 

nooH humours, increasing the circulation of the blood, and con- 

DOol '<''4^i*^>^t'ly perspiration ; but if drank too strong, it affects 

^nl the nerves, occasions watchfulness, and tremor of the 

' " ■ hands; though in some phlegmatic constitutions it is apt 

r -I ^'^ produce sleep. Indeed, it is to persons of that habit 

' "■ that coffee is well accommodated ; for to people of a thin 

'^'^^H and dry habit of body it seems to be injurious. Turkey 

. r>;!5H coffee is greatly preferable in flavour to that of the West 

. 541H Indies. Drank, only in the quantity of one dish, after 

. 5ooS dinner, to promote digestion, it answers best without 

501I ^iither sugar or milk ; but if taken at other times, it should 

5i^H have both, or in place of the latter, rather cream, which 

>-.)■ not only improves the beverage, but tends to mitigate the 

...H effects of coffee upon the nerves. 

57Jta COFFEE. 

Burn the coffee of a dec]) brown colour, without being 
hlack ; a sheet-iron l)urner is ])est, however an iron skillet 
or saucepan may also be used. For six cups of coffee 
measure six cups full of water which put into a coffee-pot, 
and set on the fire ; when the water boils, put in a little 
isinglass and six heaped dessert spoonsful of powdered 
1 coffee; stir it continually, and take it off the fire two or 



I I 



2 Tke Canadian Economist. 

three tiiries to stay the l)oiliiig ; lastly take it oft', put to 
it a cup of cold water, and leave it to settle for half an 
hour ; draw it oft* clear, and warm it up without boiling, 
in order to serve it hot. 

COFFEE AND MILK. 

This is merely very strong coftee added to a largo 
proportion of good hot milk ; about six tablespoonsf ul of 
strong coftee being (|uite sufficient for a break fas ten pful 
of milk, of the essence which answers admirably for coftee 
and milk so much would not be required. A little (^reain 
mixed with the milk, if the latter cannot be depended 
on for richness, improves the taste of the coftee as also the 
richness of the beverage. Six tablespoon.sful of strong 
coftee or two tablespoon sful of the essence to a breakfast- 
cupful of milk. 

TO MAKE ESSENCE OF COFFEE. 

Ingredients. — To every ([uarter of a pound of ground 
coffee allow^ one small teaspoonful of powdered chickory, 
three small teacupsf ul or one pint of water. Mode, let I 
the coffee be freshly ground,and,if possible,freshly roasted; 
put it into a filter with the chickory, and poui' dowly over I 
it the above proportion of boiling water. When it has 
all filtered through, warm the coftee sufficiently to hrhvA 
it to the simmering point, but do not allow it to boil ; tlicii 
filter it a second time, put it into a clean and dry bottle, 
cork it well, and it will remain good for several days! 
Two taVdespoonsful of this essence are quite sufficient foij 
a breakfastcupfid of hot milk. This essence will be found 
useful for those persons who have to rise extremely eaiiy 
and having only the milk to make boiling, is very easilyj 
and ([uickly prepared. When the essence is bottled, pouij 
another three teacupsf'ul of boiling water slowly on tliej 
grounds, which when filtered through will be a very weak! 
coiFee. The next time there is essence to be prepared] 
make this weak coffee boiling, and pour it on the grounJ 



'Wm\ 



Mode of Making Coffee. 3 

coflee instead of plain water, by this means a better coft'ee 
may be obtained. Never throw away the grounds with- 
out liaving made use of them in this manner ; and always 
cork the bottle well that contains this preparation, until 
the day that it is wanted for making the fresh essence. To 
be filtered once, then brought to the boiling point and 
tiltered again. Allow two tablespoonsful for a breakfast- 
cupful of good milk._ 

TO MAKE COFFEE. 

Soijer. 

Put 2 ozs. of ground coffee into a stewpan, which se 
upon the fire, stirring the powder round with a spoon 
mitil quite hot, then pour over a pot of boiling water, 
cover over closely for five minutes, when pass it through 
a cloth, warm and serve. 

COFFEE, FRENXH FASHION. 

Soyer. 

To a pint of coffee made as before directed, add a pint 
ot boiling milk, warm both together, until nearly boiling,* 
and serve. 

HOW TO MAKE SUPERIOR COFFEE. 

Mrti. Kennedy, Oiuen Sound. 

One tablespoonful of coffee, quarter of an eg;^, mix well 
ill two teaspoonsful of cold water, add one |)int of boil- 
ing water, boil fil'teen or twenty minutes. 

MODE OF MAKING COFFEE. 

Mrs. Tlios. McKay. 

Three tablespoonsful ^f fresh ground coffee to every 

pint of water. Put the coffee into a basin and break into 

it an Qgg — yolk, white, shell and all ; mix well with a 

I spoon, and pour on the water boiling. Put into the coffee- 



TliAi Caii'ulian, Ecotumunt. 



pot; let it boil ii|) and break three times, and then put 
the cotteepot on an iron stand on the back of the stove 
until wanted. 

VIENNA COFFEE. 

Home Messenger Booh. 

With very little extra ti-ouble morning cofiee can be 
greatly improved. Beat the white of an ei,'i^ to a stiti 
froth ; mix with an ecpial ([uantityof whipped eream, and 
use in coffee instead of cream ; put in cream first, then 
coffee, and lastly this mixture. Somebody try it and 
let me know if they don't find Vienna Coffee a great 
improvement on the plain Yankee. 

CHOCOLATE. 

French Domestic Cooker>j. 

Chocolate should V)e boiled in water, if you wish to 
retain its oriijinal flavour. Do not ffrate it, but cut the 
(piantity for each cup into three or four pieces. To an 
ounce of chocolate jnit one ounce and a half of boiling | 
water; boil it over a brisk fire, and reduce it to a third; 
])ut this third into good cream, but do not boil it again. 
It is useless to stir it more than three or four t'aies dur-j 
ing the boiling. Chocolates which contain any farina j 
and much sugar, ai-e heavy and unwholesome. 

MAKING COFFEE. 

The roasted berries should not be ground until a few 
minutes before you wish to make the liquid coffee. The! 
coffee-pot should be heated previously to putting in thel 
coffee, which may be done by means of boiling water,! 
The comm(»n custom of boiling coffee is unnecessary, as! 
all the flavour is extracted by boiling hot water. Toj 
clarify the cofiee add a shred of isinglass, a small piece ofj 
fish-skin or a spoonful of the white of an Ggg. 



Kaoha Coffee, 



5 



COFFEE. 

Coffee, as commonly prepared by persons unacipiainted 
with its nature, is a decoction, and is boiled for some time, 
under the mistaken notion that the stren<^th is not ex- 
tracted unless it is boiled ; but the fact is the reverse. 
The tine aromatic oil, which produces the flavour and 
strength of the coffee, is dispelled and lost by boiling, and 
a mucilage is extracted at the same time which makes it 
flat and weak. The best modes are to pour boiling water 
through the strainer, which is found to extract nearly all 
the strength, or to pour boiling water upon it and set it 
upon the fire not to exceed ten minutes. As a medicine 
stnmg coffee is a powerful stimulant and cordial, and in 
paroxysms of the asthma it is one of the verj' best reme- 
dies ; but it should be made very strong and with almost 
as much coffee as water. In faintness or exhaustion from 
labour and fatigue, and from sickness, coffee is one of the 
most cordial restoratives. There are coffee machines in 
which the water is boiled, and the steam penetrates the 



coft'ee and extracts to a 



great 



deirree the fine aroma. 



Immediately afterwards the boiling water is poured over 
it, and thus the best coffee is made. In Europe coffee is 
generally roasted in a cylinder, but in Asia open pans or 
tin plates are used, and every bean is picked out, when it 
has reached the right degree of brownness. 

boys' coffee. 

Crumb bread or dry toast into a bowl ; put on jjlenty 
of sugar or molasses ; put in one half milk and one half 
boiling water ; to be e^ten with a spoon, or drank if pre- 
ferred. 

KAOKA COFFEE. 

Mrs. Ritchie. 

Place in any ordinary coffee-pot, pan or saucepan, about 
[the same quantity of Kaoka as would be used of coffee 



6 



The Canadian Economist. 



in making coffee. Then pour on it the same proportion 
of l[)oilin<( water. Set it on the stove and let it ])oil fifteen 
or twenty minutes or more ; while boiling, add one tea- 
cup of li(juid coffee. Then remove from tlie stove and 
let it settle. Cream or boiled milk and sugar to be used 
with it to suit the taste. It will be found to be improved 
by long simmering on tfie stove, but must not be ])0ured 
out until it has stood awdiile, off the stove, to settle. 

COFFEE. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Burn the coffee of a fine, deep brown colour, without 
being black; a sheet-iron burner is best; however, an 
iron skillet or saucepan may also be used. For six cups 
of coffee, measure six full cups of water, which put into a 
coffee-pot, and set on the fire. When the water boils, 
put in a little isinglass and six heaped dessertspoonsful 
of powdered coffee ; stir it continually, and take it off the 
fire two or thi'ee times to stay the boiling. I^astly, take 
it- off, put to it a cup of cold water and leave it to settle 
for half an hour ; draw it off clear, and warm it up with- 
out boiling, in order to serve it hot. To serve it with 
cream or milk, put half a cup of coffee more for each cup 
of water. While the coffee is settling, boil the milk, and 
then put to it the (|uantity of coffee and water, according 
to your taste. 

COFFEE. 

il/ics.s' Bcvchers Domedic Receipt Booh. 

Mocha and old Java are the best, and time improves all 
kinds, dry it a long time before roasting. Roast it quickly, 
stirring constantly, or it will taste raw and bitter. WheiiJ 
roasted, put in a bit of butter the size of a chestnut.l 
Keep it shut up close, or it loses its strength and flavour.! 
Mever grind it till you want to use it, as it loses flavo 
by standing. To prepare it, put two great spoonsful to 



Blark Tea. 



each pint of water; mix it with th(^ wliiti', yollc and shell 
of an ejjf^ ; pour on liot l»ut not boilin<if water; and boil it 
not over ten minutes. Take it off', pour in half a teacup 
of cold water, and in tive minutew pour it off without 
sllakiM^^ When eggs are scarce, clear with fish skin. 
Boiled milk improves both tea an<l coffee, but nuist be 
l»oiled»se])arately. 

TEAS. 

Home Afest^oiger Book. 

Tea is a most refreshing beverage, an<l every one in this 
country is accustomed to drink it, from the inmates of the 
hospitals to dwellers in comfortable homes, or in richly 
furnished ones, where 

*' The buhblint,' and Itnul liissinK' urn 
SeiulH n\) ii steamy cobiniii ; and the cnim 
That cheer, but not inebriate, wait on eai-h." 

Tea is made variously as the taste of people recpiire. — 
Black, Green, Japan and English Breakfast, all require 
different methods. For Green or Japan tea, scald the 
teapot, and allow from one-half to one teaspoonful for 
each person, as the strength of the herb may indicate. 
Pour over this one half-a-cup of boiling water, steep in 
a hot place (but do not let it boil) ten minutes, then turn 
in water at a keen boil, in proportion — one quart to every 
three persons. 

ENGLISH BREAKFAST OR OOLONG. 

Take two teaspoonsful for three persons, and proceed 
as above, only letting the tea boil for ten minutes. 

BLACK TEA. 

Black tea is much more suitable than gi-een for sick 
i persons, as it does not affect the nerves. Put a teaspoon- 
ful in a pot that will hold about cwo cups, and pour boil- 
I ing water upon it. Let it set by the fire to draw for five 
or ten minutes. 



The Canadian Ecovnmisf. 



TEAS. 

Mi's. Tho8. McKay. 

' lix tea — Take of the best black tea one pound, 
anv jiiarter-poiind of the best gunpowder, mix togethei 
thoroughly. Take a small coffee-cup, about three-quarters 
full, for an ordinary sized teapot, have your teapo* soak- 
ing for live or ten miruites with boiling water, when tea is 
ready pour out the water and put in the tea, and pour on 
it a small cupful of Ijoiling water, let it stand for five 
minutes, and then fill up the teapot with boiling water 
and take it into table. 

AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR MILK OR CREAM IN TEA 

OR COFFEE. 

' llow one new laid Q<^)f to every large breakfast-cup 
c 1 or coffee, beat up the whole of the egg in a bjisin, 
pu . into a cup and pour over it the tea or coffee very 
hot. These should be added very gradually, and stirred 
all the time to prevent the e^g from curdling. In |)oint 
of nourishment both these beverages are nmch improved 
by this addition. Allow" one Qgg to every large breakfast- 
cupful of tea or coffee. 

TO MAKE A CUP OF GOOD TEA. 

Three teaspoonsful of tea to a ])int of water, pour onj 
the boiling hot water, and let the tea steep ten minutes. 

THE USE OF TEA. 

Dr. Adam Smith, in a paper read before the London 
Society of Arts, recommends the use of tea in the following 
cases: — After a full meal, when the system is oppressed, 
for the corpulent and the old, for hot climates, «'\nd os-j 
pecially for those who, living there, eat freely, or driiikf 
milk or alcohol, in cases of suspended animation, fori 
soldiers and others marching in hot climates ; for then, Inf 



Chocolate. 



9 



promoting evaporation and cooling the body, it prevents in 
a degree the effects of too much food, as of too great heat. 

TO MARK TEA. 

Cool'ery for Invalids. 

Put freshly drawn cold water into the kettle, and the 
moment it boils make the tea. If the water continues in 
ebullition for half a minute after reaching the boiling 
point its character becomes changed, and it is rendered 
unfit for tea-making. Rinse an earthenware teai)ot with 
boiling water — it should not be too large for the quantity 
of liquid required — and put into it rather less than a 
(juarter ounce of tea, — or in measure — two large teaspoons- 
ful of tea, and pour on it somewhat slowly, half-a-pint of 
boiling water, cover the pot with a cozey, and allow the 
tea to stand exactly five minutes, with a silver teaspoon 
stir it up, let it stand five or six minutes to settle, and 
having put sugar into the cup, pourit out, andadd cream, 
milk or lemon-juice as required. It is seldom that carbo- 
nate of soda is requisite to bring out the (jualities of really 
tine tea, though it may be advantageously employed in 
small quantities for inferior kinds of tea, and in places 
where the water is very hard. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Chocolate or roasted cocoa is frequently used as a 
nutritive and agreeable diluent, particularly at breakfast, 
being made into an emulsion with sugar and milk. It is 
difficult of digestion, and frequently disagi-ees with those 
who have delicate digestive organs, although instances 
occasionally occur where it is more suitable than either 
tea or coffee. The roasted shell is also employed in the 
manufacture of a similar beverage which has a pleasant 
flavour, but is slightly astringent. 



10 



The Canadian Economist. 



CHOCOLATE. 

Chocolate should he boiled in water, if you wish to 
retain its original flavour. Do not grate it, but cut the 
quantity for each cup, into three or four pieces. To an 
ounce of chocolate put one ounce an(', a half of boiling 
wa*^er, boil it over a brisk fire and reduce it to a third ; 
put this third into good cream but do not boil it again. It 
is useless to stir it more tha,n two or three times during 
the boiling. Chocolates which contain any farina and 
much sugar, are heavy and unwholesome. 

GERMAN CHOCOLATE. 

For six persons, two cakes of German sweet chocolate ; 
when grated, put with it the yolks of two eggs, and water 
enough to mix well together, put it in the chocolate boiler 
with one half pint of hot water, taking care to stir w^H. 
After boiling five minutes add one quart of boiling milk, 
and then add the whites of the two eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, stirring all the while. It must be sent to the table 
as soon as possible after the whites of the eggs are put in. 
Put two tablespoonsful of sugar in while boiling. 



CHOCOLATE. 

Have one quart of good milk boiling, grate a piece of 
chocolate three inches square, mix it with a little c- M 
milk, then stir it gradually into the boiling milk, boil half 
an hour. 

TO MAKE CHOCOLATE. 

Allow^ half an ounce of chocolate to ea- n person, to every 
ounce allow half a pint of water, half a pint of milk, make 
the milk and w^ater hot, scrape the chocolate into it and 
stir the mixture constantly and quickly until the choco- 
late is dissolved ; bring it to the boiling point, stir it wtll 
and serve directly with white sugar. Chocolate prepared 
within a mill is made by putting in the scraped chocolate, 



Cocoa. 



11 



jtoiiriiig over it the foiling milk and water, and milling it 
over the fire until hot and frothy. Allow half a cake of 
chocolate to each person. 



CHOCOLATE. 

Four heaping tahlcspoonsful of grated chocolate, one of 
sugai', and wet with one of boiling water, rub this smooth, 
tiien stir into it one pint of Ixnling water, then add one 
j>iiit of boiling milk, let this boil three minutes. It is 
gieatly improved by milling while boiling with a Dover 
egg-beater. If desired sweet add to the boiling milk one 
heaping tablespoonful of sugar. A dainty addition is two 
tablespoonsful of whi})ped cream that has been sweetened 
and flavoured with vanilla laid on the top of each cup. 

COCOA. 

( 'ocoa, or ( V)co, is a name applied to a preparation rather 
extensively used, and is said to be manufactured from the 
setMl coats q^ the cocoanut mixed with the kernel, or by 
«nindin<i: the roasted nuts without the removal of the 
shell. It is more astringent than chocolate, ]>ut in othei' 
respects is similar in properties. 

COCOA. 

Soyer. 

Put a teaspoonful and a half of cannistered cocoa into 
a cup, which fill by degrees with boiling milk, stir it until 
dissolved when it is ready to serve, sugar separately. 




CHAPTER II. 
SOUPS. 

THE delicate and proper blending of savours is tlie 
chief art of good soup-making. Be sure and skim 
the grease off the soup when it first boils, or it will not be- 
come clear. Throw" in a little salt to bring up the scum. 
Remove all the grease. 

Soup is wholesome. The London Food Journal says : 
" Physiologically, soup has great value for those who 
hurry to and from their meals, as it allows an interval of 
comparative rest to the fainting stomach before the more 
substantial beef and mutton is attacked, rest before solid 
food being as important as rest after it. Let a hungry and 
weary merchant plunge boldly ijito roast beef, and what is 
the result ? The defeat is often as precipitate as was the 
attack. When the body is weary the stomach must 1)6 
identified with it, and cannot therefore stand the shock of | 
some ill-masticated, half-pound weight of beef. But if ai 
small plateful of light soiip be gently insinuated into the 
system, nourishment will soon be introduced, and strength 
will follow to receive more substantial material." 



COCK A LEEKIE SOUP. 



Mrs. Brougli, Otimca. 



Two pounds or more of veal, cut it into pieces, like tlicl 
flesh from the breast of a fowl, and put them in the }>an| 
with a(|uarter of a pound of butter, the .same of lean bacoii,[ 
thi'ee cl()V(»s, two onions sliced, two teaspoonsful of salt 



llodye Podij( 



13 



ours is tbe 
•e and skim 
will not be- 
p the scum. 

urnal says : 
■ those wbo 
n interval of 
ore the more 
.before solid 
I'hungry and 
, and what is 
be as was the 
[ach must be 
the shock d 
,et'. But \i a 
lated into the 
and strength I 

trial." 



lieces, like tbcl 
Lm in the \M 
toflcan\)acoii,| 

lonsfid of salt, 



<»iic of sugar, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a gill of water, 
set it on the tire, turn it over until it forms a white glazing 
at tlie bottom, adtl to it five ))ints of water; simmer half 
an hour, pass tlirough a sieve ; save all the best pieces of 
the veal. Take two pounds of leeks, free them froui the 
top green ])art, and blanch them for ten minutes in a gallon 
of water and drain them ; then boil the stock and half of 
the leeks together, till almost iu a pulp, then add the 
other half of the leeks, and the meat. Simmer half an hour 
and serve. 

TO MAKE GOOD BROWN SOUP. 

Mrs. B rough, Ottatva. 

Get two large shanks, chop both shanks in three pieces, 
put them in an iron pot with four carrots, two turnips, 
three large sized onions, with the skin on, as it adds to the 
colour, a bunch of pareley, one tablespoonf ul of salt, two 
teaspoonsful of pepper, two gallons of water. Boil for two 
(lays, then strain and when cold take off idl the fat and 
the soup will be a nice rich brown and a very thick jelly, 
which you can cut with a knite. Keep adding to the 
water as the soup boils down. In the winter this soup 
will keep for a long time, and is most excellent for inva- 
lids. Serve with toast cut in dice and put in the tureen, 
and the soup poured over, it is veiy good ; for a change, 
])ut one pint bottle of tomatoes to one (j^uart of soup. 
For another change, you may put niacai-oni. 

HODGE PODGE. 

Mrs. Broufjh, Ottawa. 

Cut two pounds of fresh scrag of nmtton into small 
pieces, which put into a stew pan, with three (piarts of cold 
water and a teaspoonful of salt, otje of sugar, half a one of 

I pepper, set it on the fire. When it comes to a boil, place on 
the side of the stove to simmer for one hour. Keep it 

[skimmed. Wash a large carrot, two turnips, two onions, and 



14 



The Canadian Economist. 



six small cabbage-lettuces, cut them up and place in the 
pot and boil till done. A pint of green peas, and a carrot 
grated is an improvement. 

PEA SOUP. 

Mrs. Jarties Cunningham, Ottawa. 

One quart of split peas, boiled in three quarts of watei 
until quite soft. Then drain it through a colander. Toast 
a slice of bread and cut it up into small pieces, and fry the 
same until quite brown in a greased pan, add thi« to the 
soup with a quarter pound of butter, and pepper and salt 
to taste. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. James Canningham, Ottawa. 

One quart small white beans, boiled until (juite soft in 
water ; add two quaits of milk and four onions well fried 
in butter, then add a lump of butter with })epper and salt. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Mrs. James Cunningham, Ottawa. 

Make a strong stock, and to this add chopped onions, 
turnips, carrots, celery and a small cup of pearl barley, 
pepper and salt to taste. Boil four hours slowly. 

TURKISH SOUP. 

Mrs. Paul Campbell, Toro)ito. 

One quart of white stock, half a teacupful of whlto 
rice. The yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful of cream,! 
half a tablespoonful of salt, and an ec^ual amount of 
pepper. In preparing this soup, boil first the rice in the 
stock for twenty minutes. At the end of this time, pasd 
the whole through a wire sieve, rubbing such of the rice 
as may stick through with a wooden spoon, then stir it 



Fish So up. 



15 



tlioioughly to beat out such lumps as the rice may have 
formed, and return all to the saucepan. The yolks of the 
eggs, cream, pepper, and salt, must now be well beaten to- 
gether, and added to the stock and rice, and the whole 
stirred over the fii-e for two minutes, care being taken to 
prevent boiling, after the eggs are put in, for reasons 
already given. This soup should be served very hot. 

WHITE STOCK. 

Afrs. Paul Campbell, Toronto. 

One fowl, two pounds of veal, three quarts cold water, 
one Bermuda onion, two leeks, one head of celery, two 
cloves, half a tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
whole white pepper. The veal and fowl must ^rst be put 
into a large .saucepan and covered with water, when it 
sliould be brought quickly to a boiling point, that the 
scum may rise to be removed, when this is done the salt 
must be thrown in after which it must be skimmed again 
and the vegetables thrown in, the cloves and pepper also, 
and then the w^hole left to simmer slowly three hours. 
At the end of this time, it should be strained through a 
clean towel and allowed to cool. 

PEA SOUP. 

Miss Dowjlas, K'nuji^ton. 

Cold roast beef bones boiled until all the strength is 
out. Put in some chopped unions. Mix three heaping 
tablespoonsful of pease brose in cold water. Pour this in 
the pot, and let it just boil up for a short time. 

FISH SOUP. 

Miss Elliott, Giidph. 

All fish soups should be made wiJi milk, if unskim- 
med so much the better, using no water whatever. Cut 



16 



The Canadian Economist. 



ott* their heads, tails and fins, and remove the skin, and 
the bacltbone and cut the fish into pieces. To each pound 
of fish allow a quart of rich milk. Put into the soup-pot 
some {)ieces of cold boiled ham. No salt will then be 
required, but season with cayenne pepper, and a few blades 
of mace and some grated nutmeg, add a bunch of sweet 
marjoram, the leaves stripj)ed from the stalks and chopped. 
Make some little dumplings of flour and butter and put 
them in when the soup is about half done. Half an hours 
steady boiling will be sufhcient. Serve up in the tureen, 
the pieces of fish and ham, also, some toast cut in dice. 



LOBSTER SOUP. 

Miss Elliott, Gudph. 

Take two or three fine fresh lobsters (the middle ^ized 
are the best). Heat a large pot of water, throwing in a 
large handful of salt. When it is boiling hard, put in the 
lobsters, head foremost, that they may die immediately. 
They will re(piire at least half an hour's fast boiling ; if 
large, three-quarters. When done, take them out, wipe oti' 
the scum that has collected on the shell, and drain the 
lobster. First, break off the large claws and crack them, 
then split the body and extract all the white meat, and the 
red coral, nothing else, and cut it into small pieces. Mash 
the coral into smooth bits with the back of the spoon, 
mixing with it plenty of sweet oil ; and gradually addin;,' 
to it the bits of chopped lobster. Put into a clear soup 
pot two quarts of good milk, and thicken it with half <•> 
dozen butter biscuits, pounded fine, or the grated crumbs 
of two or three small rolls, and stir in a quarter of a pouin. 
of fresh butter made into a paste, with two spoonsful of 
flour. Put in the chopped lobster, seasoned with nut- 
meg, a few blades of mace powdered, and a little cayenne. 
Let all V)oil together slowl^'^ for half an hour, keeping it 
closely covered. Towards the last, stir in two beaten eggs, 
Lay some very small biscuits, in the bottom of the tureen 



Swiss Soul). 



17 



i(n<l pour the soup upon them. Nasturtium flowers, 
strewed, at the last, thickly, over the surface of tliis soup, 
when in the tuieen, are an improvement both to its ap- 
pearance and flavour. 

WHITE SOUP (without MEAT). 

Booh of the Household. 

Put two or three quarts of water into a saucepan witli the 
crunil) of a small loaf, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few cloves, 
whole pepper, an ounce or two cut across, and a little salt ; 
cover closely and boil till perfectly smooth. Cut into 
.small pieces some celery, endive and lettuce, the white parts 
only, boil them, strain oft" the soup into a clean saucepan, 
put in the herbs with a good piece of butter and keej) stir- 
rin*.,' until it is melted , then boil it till (piite smooth, skim 
it, soak some French roll nicely rasped in a little of the 
soup, put it in a tureen, pour the remainder of the soup 
over and semi to table. 



GERMAN SOUP. 

Boil a knuckle of veal, or any veal })ones, and some good 
stock, then add one or two turnips, according to size ; one 
carrot and some onions, a little lemon, thyme, a very small 
stick of celery and three or four cloves. Let all boil well, 
and strain it oft' for use, thicken it, and add the yolks of six 
eggs to three quarts of soup, an<l one gill of thick cream; 
pepper and salt to taste, A little vermicelli, a little lean 
ham, and one blade of mace will improve the stock. A 
most delicious soup. 

SWISS SOUP. 

Take good broth, say five pints, made from veal or 
chicken and let it boil ; beat up three eggs and add to 
them three tablespoonsful ftour, and one break fa stcupful 
of milk. Pour this in gradually to the boiling soup through 
a sieve, add nutmeg, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 



18 



The Canadian Economist. 



MUTTON BI{OTH. 

The best part for making broth is the chump end of the 
loin, but it may be made very good from the scrag end of 
the neck only, which should be stewed gently until it Ix- 
comes tender, fully two hours or longer if it be large, but 
not boiled to rags ; a few grains of whole pep{)er, with ji 
couple of fried onions and some turnips should be put along 
with the meat an hour or two before sending up the broth, 
which should l)e strained from the vegetables and chopf cd 
parsley and thyme be mixed in it. TIk^ turnijis should be 
mashed and served in a separate dish to be eaten with tJie 
mutton, with parsley and butter caper sauce. If meant 
for persons in health it ought to be strong or it will be in- 1 
sipid. Cooks usually skim it frequently; but if given asi 
a remedy for a severe cold, it is much better not to remove I 
the fat, as it is very healing to the chest. 



ANOTHER WAY FOR AN INVALID. 

Boil three pounds of the scrag end of a neck of mutton,] 
cut into pieces, in three quarts of water with two turnij); 
and a tablespoonful of pearl barley or rice; let it boil gentlyl 
for tl)ree hours, keeping it cleanly skimmed. Serve Avitlil 
bits of toasted bread. 

UEEF RROTfl. 

It consists in a decoction of beef, leg of veal, an old heiiJ 
carrots, turnips, leeks, celeiy, cloves stuck in a burnt onioiij 
water and salt. This broth nmst be done gently for thretj 
hours h^.o that the water dissolves the nmcous part of thq 
meat, and easily separates from the scum. It can be prej 
pared in a Bain Marie, and in this manner is more delij 
cate. 

MEAGRE BROTH WITH ROOTS. 

Young carrots and turnips, a bunch of each, a quarter 
a bunch of leeks, as much onions, two headsof celery, t^«j 



01 



aze. 



10 



c 



cloves, a little salt, very little pepper, in six (pmrts of wnter. 
This broth delights the stomach, but is rather exciting 
after eating it. 

llUNTElt's SOUP. 

CaaselVs Household Guide. 

Thiee partridges are to be cooked, between slices of ba- 
con, and then allowed to become cold. Now remove the 
skin from them, and cut each limb into two pieces, and ar- 
range them at the bottom of a tureen ; aftewards take 
what is left of the partridges, and stew it in a sufiicient 
(juantity of the sonp, then skim and strain the soup, and 
p(jur it over the partridges in the tureen. 

GLAZE. 

Little Dinners. 

Take a knuckle of veal with very little meat on, three 
pounds of shin of beef, a ham bone, or slice of ham, one 
dozen of onions, a few herbs and two or three cloves or 
pepper corns. 

Let your butcher chop the knuckle of veal into small 
pieces, cut up the beef and ham, put all into your stock- 
pot, let the juices draw out slowly, and then reduce as di- 
rected for clear gravy soup ; when this is done cover the 
meat with water, and when it has boiled up skim it and 
k't it boil six or eiwht hours. Strain it first throuoh a 
colander, then through a fine lawn sieve, let it stand until 
the next day, take off' every particle of fat, then put the 
j glaze into a stew-pan, boil up without the lid, and take 
otf any scum as it rises. Let it boil very fast until it is re- 
Uuced to a small quantity, and becomes gluey, then pour 
it into a basin or soup-plate, and it will turn out next day 
very hard. This is most useful to enrich soups and gravies ; 
[indeed soup can be made by pouring boiling water on a 
^ittl'j of it. It is always very good for travellers as meat 



20 



TIte Canadian Economist. 



lozoTigos. An economical ^Inze can be; made with mutton 
shani^H and any bones you have by you and is very good 
if carefully made. 

KROWN RABBIT SOUP. 

Little Dinners. 

Cut down into joints, Hour and fry li<(htly, tw^o full- 
grown rabbits; add to them three small onions, also fricil 
to a clear brown ; on these pour gradually seven ])ints of 
boiling water; throw in a teaspoonful of salt, clear oH' 
the scum with care as it rises, and then put to the soup a 
faggot of i)arsley, four not very large cai'rots, and a small 
teaspoonful of pepper corns ; l>oil the whole very softly 
from five hours to five and a half ; atld more salt if 
needed ; strain oft' the soup, let it cool sufficiently for the 
fat to be skimmed clean from it, heat it afresh, and send it 
to table with si))pets of fried bread. Spice with a thick- 
ening of flour, browned in the oven, and mixed with h 
spoonful or two of very good mushroom catsup. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

JAttle Dinners. 

Giblets should be well wa.shed in wai*m water two or 
three times, the bones broken, the neck and gizzards cut 
into convenient pieces; the head also should be sjdit in 
two. If goose giblets are used, a couple of sets should IhI 
dressed ; but if duck giblets are used, four sets will Ik-J 
wanted. A pint of water is to be allowed for each set I 
Put them into cold water, let them boil up gradualh.l 
take off the scum, and when they boil, add some sweetj 
herbs, pepper, salt, mace, &;c., and an onion. Let tlitl 
whole stew an hour and a half or two hours until tliel 
gizzards are tender; take out the giblets, strain the soupj 
and thicken it with a little flour and a bit of butter, aniij 
flavour it with a tablespoonful of catsup, or a little o| 
Harvey's sauce. Serve up the giblets and soup togetherJ 



Kldnc'i/ Soup. 



21 



PLAIN HKKF S01JI». 

Mrs. Frascr, Almonte. 

Take a shin or fore-leg of beef, nicely cut in pieces or 
sawed through the hone, and put into cold water — one 
(juart of water to one pound of meat. It requires four 
(»r five hours boiling, When the water is just at the 
l»(»iling point, skim it well; add pepper to taste, six 
])()t.ci,oe,' whole, two turnips in slices, one carrot grated, 
one large or two small onions, and if you choose two or 
three tomatoes. Let the whole boil slowly. Within half 
an hour, add one tablespoonful of salt, strain and skim 
oti'the fat. Boil a few minutes. 

A RICH SOUP. 

Mrs. Frascr, Almonte. 

Take part of a shin of ])eef, a small shin of veal, a neck 
of inuttcm, a knuckle of ham, the giblets of a turkey and 
chicken, and bits of cold meat if you have any. Put 
them all into the soup pot, immediately after dinner, with 
six (juarts of vvatei-, one carrot, (me turnip, one onion, two 
potatoes, and a little pepper. Put the pot upon a brisk 
tire, and let it come to a boil. Then place it in a corner 
ot" the lire and let it boil gently until bed-time ; then strain 
it through a colandei- and set it away to cool. Three hours 
liefo re dinner, take ofi'the fat, return the jelly to the scmp 
pot, add a little salt, half a teaspoonful of celery seed, and 
it' you like it a little vermicelli ; pkce it over a moderate 
Hie, boil half an hour, then serve. The seasoning of this 
soup may be varied, and thus several varieties may l>e 
made from the same meat. This soup must boil slowly. 

KIDNEY SOUP. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Take two beef kidneys, wash and cut them in small 
pieces ; fry them of a dark brown ; put them to boil with 
spice to taste ; thicken with floqr. 



22 



The Canadian KconomiHt. 



MOCK TURTLE SOU P. 

Mr». Fraser, Almovte. 

Tn four or five (juarts of water, boil a calf's liead and 
harslet until tender; take them out, strain the lifpiorand 
skim off the fat ; cut the meat, the li^ht part of the 
lieart, part of the liver into pieces about an inch s<juare; 
put these into the liquor, with two onions cut very fine, 
a few cloves, a little mace, pepper and salt to youi- taste ; 
boil gently one hour and a half. Put the whole yolks of 
four eggs boiled hard, and the whites cut fine. Pour tht^ 
soup in boiling hot. One or two lemons cut in slices and 
])ut into the tureen will atld richness to the flavour and 
give a delicate relish. Take the remainder of the harslet 
and chop fine half a pound of lean veal and a slice of salt 
pork ; add the brains, pep[)er, salt, sweet herbs and sage ; 
break in one egg, and mix the whole well together, and 
then make them into balls size of half an Qgg, and fry 
them in butter, a delicate blown ; put part in the soup 
and serve part on a dish garnished with curled parsley 
and slices of lemon. 

BROWN SOUP. 

Mrs. Frasev, Almonte. 

Take a well-sized piece of hough, cut it down, have 
ready a clean pan, put it on a slow tire, rub the bottom 
with a little marrow, put in all the fleshy pieces. Let 
them stew gently for one hour ; fill the iK)t to the brim 
with cold water. Let it continue boiling a whole day ;[ 
the bones sawed into pieces and laid on the top ; also hall j 
a dozen onions, one carrot, one turnip, a few whole peppeis, 
a blade of mace and a few cloves. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Georgetown. 

Take four pounds of beef for four quarts of water, piitj 
it over a p)0(}erate fire with two quarts of water, letitl 



Vejetalde Stnii>. 



23 



Ijoil ;^'C'ntIy for one liour, then add two more (juarts of 
lM)ilin^' water and boil for atiotber hour, luiviii*^ added at 
the same time witli tlie water half cup of rie«; or pot barley; 
then add the vejj^etables as follows : one lar«;e carrot 
scraped and cut in thin slices, one large turnip cut in tlu5 
siune manner, then fifteen minutes after add four potatoes 
iind one head of celery cut small, let it boil, and as soon 
as the vegetables are tender it is done. 

SIMPLE WHITE SOUP. 

Mrs. McKaclitan, Cohourg. 

Take the fat from tlie top of your turkey soup stock, 
strain, rultbing tlie dressing through a colandei-; simmer 
one hour with half a sliced onion ami four tiiblespoonsful 
of soaked rice in it, until the rice is soft ; be careful that 
it does not scorcli ; strain tlirough the soup-sieve into the 
tureen, add pepper and salt if needed ; finally a cup of 
hot milk in which has been stirred and cooked, for one 
minute, two beaten eggs. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. McNiicktan, Cohoitvg. 

Peel, by pouring boiling water over them, a dozen fine 
tomatoes ; cut them up, throwing aside the hard portions, 
take the fat from the surface of your soup-stock, pour it 
off from the meat and sediment, add the tomatoes and 
.stew gently for half an hour; strain, rubbing the tomatoes 
tlirough a sieve, return to the pot; add a little pepper and 
salt, a lump of sugar and a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
ill Hour. Boil ten minutes and pour out. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Mrs. McNachtan, Cohourg. 

< 'ut into thin, short strips one carrot, one turnip, one 
union ; peel and slice six fine tomatoes, half cup of boiled 



24 



The Cnvadian Ecovomist 



rice, three pints of .soui)-.stoek, one pint of boiling water, 
seasoned at discretion; boil the vegetables tender in a little 
hot salted water, drain, butter, and keep them hot ; the 
tomatoes sliould be stewed in another vessel twenty-five 
minutes, and seasoned ; add to stock soup one pint of boil- 
ing water and sinnner half an hour, then strain, return 
to the fire with the cooked vc'^etables and boiled rice, 
stew gently ten minutes and turn out. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Mrs. McKlnnov, Gloucesfi'r St. 

One (|uart of milk, six potatoes boiled and peeled, quarto 
pound of butter, season with pepper and salt, m.ash the 
potatoes tine, and while mashing add the butter, salt and 
pepper, pour in gradually the milk boiling, stir it well 
and strain through a sieve, beat up an egg and put in tlic 
tureen after the soup is strained, heat it again as it coo!> 
in straining. 

BEAN OR PEA SOUP. 

Mrs. H. McEhunj, Richmond. 

Take a shank of fiesh l)eef and tw^o or three gallons oil 
water, boil together three hours, take two (piarts of pea: 
or beans, boil till soft, then strain through a colander andj 
add to the licpiid, after the meat has been renioved, and 
season with cmions, pepper and salt to suit the taste. 

SOUP FlK^M A COI.D ROAST JJONE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Aftei" breakfast })ut on the soup-pot, fill it up with culdj 
water and put in the roast bone freed from } U fat an< 
UMich of the meat as it is ])ossible to cut ort'; wa. h J 
b»eakfasteupful of j)eail barley and empty into the potJ 
let the soup boil up and skim it well, and then take tii( 
pot ofl'and piit it bapk upon the t/p of the ^tove ; al'ouj 



Oyster Soup. 



25 



(iiir hour before dinner add one taMespoont'ul of brown 
sii«;ar and pepper and salt to taste. If vegetables are 
liktd they may be added at pleasure. 

BARLEY SOUP. 

Miss Mostyn, Almonte. 

Two pounds of shin of beef, quarter of a pound of 
])earl barley, a large bunch of parsley, four onions, six 
])()t}itoes, salt and pepper, four quarts of water; put in all 
tlu' in^a-edients and simmer gently for three hours. Season- 
able all the year, but more so in winter. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mrs. Thos. McKaij. 

Take one quart of 03sters, pour uj)on them one pint of 
:!()ld water and put them into a colander placed over a 
basin or bowl, into which let all the juice and water drain, 
then take a saucepan which will hold al)out three pints 
and })our the juice in it. Take a piece of butter about 
tlie size of a walnut and a teaspoonful of flour and mix 
them together as you would for sauce, a salispoonful of 
salt, the same (juantity of pepper, and a dessertspo(mful 
or more if you like it, of mushroom catsup ; put these with 
the l)roth which is already in the saucepan anrl let all 
coit'c to a boil. Then take the saucepan from the fire and 
ciiipty into the broth the oysters, then set the saucepan 
on the fire again and let its contents all boil up for one 
minute. During this opeiation takt^ the soup-tureen and 
till it with boiling water, just before your oysters are 
cooked empty out this water and put into the tureen four 
tahlospoonsful of n)ilk and two of cream (if you have it, 
it' not milk will do), and if you wish you can increase the 
<|uantity, and pour the contents of the saucepan boiling 
hot into the cold milk in the tureen. Oysters are apt to 
disagree with some people just because of the milk being 
boiled. 



-^ ^ — ' — 



2G 



The Canadian KcuuovuhL 



BONE STOCK FOR SOUP. 

Warne'a Every -day Cookery. 

BoTies of any meat which has been dressed, as sirloin 
l)ones, k'g of mutton bone, &e., &c., two scraped carrots, 
one stick of celery, enough cold water to cover the bones, 
or enough of the lit^uor left from braising meat to cover 
them, one teasp(^onful of salt ; Ineak the bones into very 
small pieces, put them into a stewpan with the carrots 
and celery ; cover them with cold water, or cold braise 
li<]uor, and let it boil quickly till the scum rises, skim it 
off an<l throw in some cold water, when the scum will rise 
again. This must be done two or three times, till the 
stock is (juite clear ; then draw the pan from the fire and 
let it stew for two hours till all the goodness is extracted 
from the bones, strain it off and let it stand all nignt. The 
next day take off the grease very carefully, not leaving 
the least atom on it, and lift it fron. the sediment at the 
bottom of the pan. It will then be fit for use. It will 
take from two to three hours. 



GENERAL STOCK-POT. 

Warne's Every -day Cookery. 

Stock, in its composition, is not confined to fresh meat 
only, any meat or bones are useful ; pieces of beef fioiii j 
any ]mrt from which gravy can be extracted ; bones, skin, 
brisket, or tops of ribs, ox-cheek, pieces of mutton, bacon, 
ham, and trinnnings of turkeys, fowls, veal, &:c. ; and also! 
of hare and pheasant, if they are old and tit for no othei 
purpose ; in fact, anything that will become a jelly, Millf 
assist in making stock. To this medley of ingredientsj 
add carrots cut into slices, herbs, onions, pepper, salt, Sj ce, 
&c., and when all have stewed until the stock is of a ricli 
consistency, take it off from the fire and pour it out m 
cool. When cold, all the fat must be taken off, and itj 
must be poured clear from the sediment. When the soupl 



To Clarify Stocks or Soups. 



27 



is required to be very rich, the jelly from a cow's heel, or 
a lump of butter rolled in flour, must be added to the 
stock. The stock-pot should never be suffered to be 
em])ty, as almost any meats (save salt meats), or fowls 
make stock. The remnants should never be thrown any- 
where but into the stock pot, and should tco much stock 
l»e already in your possession, boil it down to a glaze, 
waste is thus avoided. 

PEPPER P(JT. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

Four pounds of gravy beef, six quarts of water, a Itou- 
([uet of savory herbs, two small crabs or lobsters, a large 
bunch of spinach, half a pound of cold bacon, a few suet 
(Inniplings (made of flour, beefsuet and yolk of one ^g^), 
one pound of asparagus tops, cayenne pepper, pepper and 
salt to taste, juice of a lemon. Put four pounds of gravy 
licef into six quarts of water, with the bouquet of savory 
licrhs ; let it simmer well till all the goodness is extracted, 
skinnuing it well; let it stand till cold, that all the fat 
iinay be taken off it. Put it into a stewpan and heat it, 
when hot, add the flesh of two middling-sized crabs or 
j lobsters, nicely cut np, spinach well boiled and chopped 
tine, half a pound of cold bacon, or pickled pork — dressed 
j previously and cut into small pieces — a few small dump- 
I lings, made very light of flour, beefsuet, yolk of egg, and 
a little water. Add one pound of asj)aragus tops, season 
[to your taste with cayenne, salt, pepper, and juice of a 

inon ; stew for about half-an-honr, stirring it constantly. 

TO CLARIFY STOCKS OR SOUPS. 

Warne's Evcry-thnj Gooho'y. 

The whites of two eggs to about four quarts of stock 
lor soup, two pints and a half of cold water, whisk the 

whites of two egg.s — very fresh eggs — with half-a-pint of 
jwater for ten minutes ; tlien pour in very gently the four 

<|iiarts of Itoiling stock ox soup whisking it all tlie time ; 



28 



TJie Cauddlan Economist. 



place the stewpan over the fire, skim it clear, ami when 
on the point of boiling whisk it all together ; then draw 
it to the side, and let it settle till the whites of the eggs 
become separated ; strain it through a line cloth placed { 
over a sieve, and it will be clear and good. 

CORN SOUP. 

Home Messenger. 

Cut the gi-ains from twelve ears of sweet coi-n and scrapei 
the milk, add one quart of water ; let it boil until quitel 
done — thirty to forty minutes — then add two quarts ofl 
new milk, and when it boils, stir in quarter })ound ofj 
butter rubbed into two tablespoonsful of Hour, pepper amir 
salt ; beat the yolks of two eggs in the tureen and pourj 
the soup in boiling, stirring all the time. 

SORREL SOUP. 

Home Messenger. 

This is a most wholesome soup, which would be iiiosd 
popular in America if it were better known. For foiiij 
quarts of soup, put into a saucepan a piece of butter thtj 
size of an egg, two or three sprigs of parsley, two or tine 
leaves of lettuce, one onion and a pint of sorrel, all timl 
chopped, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, cover and 14 
them cook or sweat ten minutes ; then add two talilej 
spoonsful of lloui", mix well, and gradually add thiei 
(juarts of boiling water (stock would be better); beat 
yolks of four eggs — one tigg to a quart of soup — and mil 
with them a cupful of cream or rich nulk ; add a litt| 
chervil to the soup, let it boil ten minutes, then stir inth 
eggs when the soup is quite ready. 

CROUTONS. 

Home Messenger. 

These are small pieces of bread, fried crisp and bro\i 
t-o be i]sed in soup. 



¥ 
fine, 
milk 
craci 
in til 
((iiarl 
turee 



To 

the w 

<>n(; at 

here t( 

it in a 

mace, ; 

this bo 

Ml I (bed 

scald 



J*>oi| 
ithiis on 
[not to 



!mt 

ia tahl 
Istir 



<> a s| 

anci 



es 



Jinir 



■then tht 


W^Pper. 


•"!• a mi 


P"iip an 


W^i' the c 


1 



Oyster Soap. 



29 



OYSTl;R SOUP, NO. 1. 

Home Messenger. 

For four cans of oysters have twelve crackers rolled 
fine, two ([uarts of boiling water, one pint of good rich 
milk. Let the milk and water come to a boil ; add the 
crackers, salt and pepper ; boil one minute briskly ; pour 
in the oysters and let all come to a scald ; add aV)out a 
((uarter of a pound of butter as they are poured into a 
tureen. 

OYSTER SOUP, NO. 2. 

Hora e Messe mje i •. 

To one quart of oysters add one quart of water ; pour 
the water on the oysters and stir them ; take them out 
one at a time, so that no small particle of shell may ad- 
here to them ; strain the liquor through a sieve and put 
it in a stew-pan over the fire, with two or three blades of 
mace, and season with red pepper and salt to taste ; when 
this boils put in your oysters, add a teaspoonful of flour 
rubbed to a paste, with an ounce of butter ; let them 
scald again ; then add half a pint of cream, and serve hot. 

OYSTER SOUP, NO 3. 

Home Messenger. 

To one quart of oysters add half a pint of water. Put 

this on the fire, and as soon as it reaches the boiling point, 

not to boil, strain the liquid through a colander. Put 

I into a separate saucepan a piece of butter the size of an 

e<,%and to this add, when it bubbles (do not let it scorch) 

a tablespoonf ul of sifted flour ; let this cook a few minutes, 

stirring it w-ell ; then add half a pint of sweet milk and 

jthen the oysters, seasoning with salt ami a little cayenne 

[pepper. Do not let the soup boil, but keep it quite hot 

for a minute or two after adding the oysters. Have both 

^oup and oysters cooking so equally that neither waits 

Tor the other. 



so 



TliP CanacUan Economist. 



it boi 
Next 
to VOf 
water 
sweet 



One 
\ng wa 
butter, 
Ijefore 
minute 



CLAM SOUJ\ 

Home Messenfjer. 

Put thirty clams in a pot and four (juarts of water. 
Let them boil two hours, and tlicni take them out and 
chop fine ; return to the pot and add a little mace and a 
few p"pper-corns ; boil one hour longer. Rub somothly 
togetii .r a small piece of butter with two tablespoonsful 
of flour, and stir this with a pint of boiling milk. When 
the clam soup has boiled tliree hours, pour it into a tureen 
and stir in the thickened milk. Canned clams make a 
nice soup after the above receipt. 

CKLERY SOUP. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

Take a chicken, boil it all to pieces, and strain. The I 
next day put into it small pieces of celery; simmer till 
thoroughly cooked ; then add a cup of cream or milk;j 
thicken it with a little flour ; add pepper and salt. 

TO MAKE RUB-A-BOO. 

Mr. J. W. Ward rope, Winnipeg. 

Take about two pounds of pemmican and chop it upj 
very tine. Put it in an iron pot, cover with water, anill 
let it boil for about two hours. Then stir in enouglij 
flour to make a veri/ thick soup. Serve hot on tin plate^ 
This is an exceedingly nice dish for those who can si)aie| 
the time to take about sixteen hours' vigorous exercise| 
after eating it. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Anonymous. ■ Mix ni 

Break up a shin of veal, let it soak in cold water ahoutB^^^^^^ 
two hours, then put it to boil in four quarts of cold wnterB^*^ , 
with one or tw^o onions, a little mace, pepper and salt ; le^ 



Twe] 

onion s 

elioppec 

salt, on^ 

f nee, one 

! pot in t 

'aild the 

' in the b 

strain, 

hot li(pi 

|a^aiii st 

li'ice; si I 



Angel Soiii^, 



31 



it boil about five hours, strain it and set it away to cool. 
Nt'xt day take off all the fat, add whatever is reijuired as 
to vegetables; mix two tablespoonst'ul of ground rice with 
watei', stir until it boils enough and add a pint of good 
.sweet cream, another boil and it is fit for use. 



TOMATO SOUP. 



One pint peeled and sliced tomatoes, two quarts of boil- 
ing water — boilhalf an hour, — add one teaspoonful of soda, 
butter, size of an egg, salt and pep|)er ; boil a little longer, 
before dishing add a pint of milk or cream, boil one 
minute, pour over a rolled cracker or bread crumbs. 



TOMATO sour WITHOUT MEAT. 



Dinner Year Book. 



Twelve large red tomatoes, peeled and sliced, one small 
onion sliced, two tablespoonsful of nice dri])ping, one of 
chopped parsley, two of butter rolled in flour, pepper and 
salt, one teasi)Oon of sugar, one small cupful of hot boiled 
rice, one (juart of boiling water ; fiy the onion in the soup- 
pot in the dripping. When they are of a reddish brown, 
add the tomatoes and stir all up until ver}* hot, then put 
in the boiling water and parsley, stew half-an-hour and 
strain, rubbing the tomato through a sieve into the 
hot liquid, return to the pot, season, and when boiling 
[again stir in the floured butter, and a minute later the 
[rice ; sinuner ten minutes and pour out. 

ANGEL SOUP. 

Spanish Cooker fj. 

Mix with boiling milk half a pound of flour of rice ; 

hvheii it is of the consistency of paste, add the yolks of six 

eggs and six whites, half a pound of sugar, soiue cinnamon 

lor other spice, according to taste ; stir it continually, and 



00 

Otml 



The Canadian Economist. 



mix ifc with .some broth; boil it in the Bain Marie and 
serve it of the thickness of soup. 

SPANISH SOUP. 

Span wh Cookery. 

Toast some slices of bread, put them into the soup- 
tureen, and lay between them cooked sheep's liver, broken 
into ver}'^ small pieces and mixed with grated cheese, and 
a sprinkling of spice cinnamon and chopped parsley. 
Take nuts, roast them in the oven, [>ound them and stew 
in broth ; thin it with more broth, and pour the soupj 
thus made into the tureen. 




CHAPTER III. 
OYSTERS. 



OYSTERS are in tlie finest condition for the table 
from September to April. The fresher they are the 
tinor is the flavour ; they are light, moderatively nutritive, 
and easily digested. 

OYSTERS. 

Put a little butter into your stew-pan, with a slice of 
ham, a faggot of parsley, and sweet herbs, and an onion 
stuck with two cloves. Let them stew over a slow fire a 
few minutes, and then add a little flour, some good broth, 
and a piece of lemon peel ; then put in your oysters and 
let tliem simmer till they are thoroughly hot. Thicken 
with the yolks of two eggs, a little cream, and a bit of 
good butter; take out the ham, faggot, onion and lemon 
peel, and add the squeeze of a lemon ; give the whole a 
shake in the pan, and when it simmers, put it in your 
dish and serve up. 



TO SCALLOP OYSTERS. 

French Domestic Cooker ij. 

Open four dozen of oysters, detach them from their 
Ishells, and gently make them boil in their liquor ; drain 
tlieni, put then into a saucepan, a piece of butter, some 
niushrooms, parsley and shalots chopped finely ; let them 
[stew together ; add a dessert^spoonful of flour, and dilute 
Uhe whole with gravy ; stew, reduce the sauce, and put 
[in the oysters. Reserve a dozen of the largest and finest 
3 



34 



The Canadian Economist. 



shells, and liavin*^ washetl tlieni, put four oysters and 
some sauce into each ; cover them with bread crumbs, 
put on them a little butter, and brown them in a Dutch 
oven, very hot, or l)y holding a red-hot shovel over them. 
Scallop shells may be used instead of the shells of the 
oyster. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Mws Bnnton, Bradford, Pa. 

Boil the liquor of an hundred oysters and pour it over 
them ; when they have stood a few minutes, take them 
out and boil the liquor a«^ain with a ^.^ill of sugar, a few 
whole black peppers and two or three blades of mace ; j 
when this is cold pour it over the oysters and cover | 
closely. 

STEWEO OYSTERS PLAIN. 

Have your oysters fresHly opened, put them with their 
own liquor into a stewpan, give them one good scald, then 
add a good bit of butter and some i)epper, and serve with I 
cold butter and crackers, and dressed celery. 

COLD SAUCE FOR OYSTERS. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Chop very finely some shalots, which mix with vinegar! 
and pepper; pour a little over each oyster. 

TO PRICASEE OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Cook, Turkish Bath, Montreal. 

Take one quart of oysters, pour over them their ownj 
liquor, but drain it off, do not use it, mix one teaspoonfulj 
of flour, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a saltspoonf 
ful of salt, the same of pepper, and three cupsf ul of inilkj 
have ready a bakingdish, put in a layer of oysters, cover! 



Oystfiv Pie. 



:35 



with some of the mixture, then another layer of oysters 
and so on, till all are used ; then for the top layer cover 
with tine bread-crumbs, bake twenty minutes. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guelph. 

let some fine large fresh oysters, drain their lif^uor 
iving it in a pitcher), and put them in a stewpan with 
a quarter pound of fresh butter, and set them over the 
tire ; when they have simmered, and have almost come to 
a boil, remove them from the fire, and have ready a pan 
of very cold water ; take out the oysters, one at a time 
on a fork and put them into the cold water ; this will 
plump them and render them firm. Having saved about 
half their liquor, )mt it into the stewpan, seasoned well with 
blades of mace, grated nutmeg, whole jjcpper corns and a 
little cayenne ; stir in half pint or more of cream ; and if 
you cannot procure cream, an equal quantity of nice fresh 
butter, divided into bits, slightly dredged with a very little 
Hour ; boil the licjuor by itself, and when it comes to a boil 
take the oysters out of the cold water and put them into the 
boiling liquor. In five minutes remove the pan from the 
fire, the oysters having sinunered, and transfer them to a 
tureen or deep dish, in the bottom of which has been laid 
a buttered toast, that has been previously dipped for a 
minute in hot water or milk. 



OYSTER PIE. 

Mrs. Elliott, Gueljyh. 

Having buttered the inside of a deep dish, line it with 
puff-paste rolled out rather thick, and prepare another 
sheet of paste for the lid ; put a clean towel into the dish 
(folded so as to support the lid) and then put on the lid, 
set it into the oven and bake the paste well, when done 
remove the lid and take out the towel. While the paste 



3G 



The Canadian Economiat 



is baking, prepare the oysters ; having picked off' carefully 
any bits or shell that may be found about them, lay them 
into a sieve and drain off the lifjuor into a pan ; put the 
oysters into a skillet or stewpan, witli barely enough of 
the liquor to keep them from burning ; season them with 
whoh; pepper, blades of mace, some grated nutmeg, and 
some grated lemon-peel (the ytdlow rind only), and a little 
finely-minced celery ; then add a large })ortion of fresh 
butter, divided into bits, arid very slightly dredged with 
Hour ; let the oysters simmi^r over the tire, but do not 
allow them to come to a boil, as that will shrivel them. 
Next beat the yolks only of three, four or five eggs (in 
proportion to the size of the pie), and stir the beaten eggs 
into the stew a few minutes before you take it from the 
fire ; keep it warm till the paste is baked, then carefully 
remove the lid off the pie, and place it, after you have 
filled the dish with the oysters and gravy. The lid of 
the pie may be ornamented with a wreath of leaves, cut 
out of paste and put on before baking. In the centre 
place a paste-knot of flower. Oyster pies are generally 
eaten warm, but they are very good cold. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guidph. 

For fried oysters, take only the largest and finest ; they 
should be as fresh as you can get them ; take them out of 
their liquor carefully with a fork, picking off* whatever 
bits of shell may be aV)out them ; dry in a clean napkin, 
|>repare some grated bread-crambs or pounded biscuit, 
seasoned wMth cayenne pepper; have ready plenty of yolk 
of egg, beaten till very light, and to each egg allow a hirgej 
teaspoonful of cream, or of the best fresh butter ; beat tliel 
egg and cream together ; dip each oyster first into the! 
egg, tfec, and then into the crumbs ; repeat this twicej 
till the oysters are well coated all over ; have ready boilj 



Fried Oysters. 



37 



iuff in a pan, an equal (jiiantity of fresh Imtter and laid ; 
it must coino nearly to the ed^a* or toj) of the fryingpan, 
and he hoiling fast, when the oysters go in, otherwise 
tliey will be heavy and greasy and sink to the bottom. 
Yry thi'Au of a yellow brown on both sides, send them to 
table very hot. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Ml»H Elliott, Giu'lph. 

Allow to each egg a heaped tablespoonful of flour and 
a sMiall teacnpful of milk, beat the eggs until very light 
aii<l thick, then stir them gradually into the pan of milk 
in turii with the flour, a little at a time, beat the whole 
very hard, have ready the oysters that you may proceed 
imiiiediately to baking the fritters ; the oysters should be 
fresh and of the largest size ; having drained them from 
their li(|Uor, and dried them sejiarately in a cloth, and 
dredged them with flour, set over the fire a fryingpan 
nearly full of lard, when it boils fast put in a large spoon- 
ful of butter, then lay an oyster upon it and cover the 
oyster with another spoonful of butter, fry the fritters of 
a nice yellow ; as they are done take them up ; drain off 
tile lard from the oysters and serve up. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Miss Mostyn, Almonte. 

Three dozen of oysters, two ounces of butter, one 

I tablespoonful of catsup, a little chopped lemon-peel, half 

la teaspoonful of chopi)ed ] arsley ; boil the oysters for one 

|rniriute in their own licpiorand drain them ; fry them with 

the butter, catsup, lemon-peel and pai-sley ; la^' them on a 

lish and gai-nish with fried potatoes, toasted sippets and 

ai-sley. This is a delicious delicacy and is a favourite 

Italian dish, time five minutes ; seasonable from Septem- 

3r to April ; sufficient for four persons. 



38 



The Canadian Economist 



To FRICASSEE OYSTERS. 

Fvo'in a Cookery Booh over 100 years old. 

Wash thorn tl.oroughly clean in theii- own liquor; then 
strain the clean li nor on them; put them on the fire, 
and give them a scald ; lift them out of the li([uor, tak» 
some of the liquor and thicken it with a little butter an<l 
flour kneaded together. When it comes to boil put iu 
the fish and let them just get a boil or two. Have some 
yolks of eggs cast ; cast two, three, or more, according to 
the size of the dish you make ; take a little of the liquor 
out of the pan, and give them a toss or two, but don't let 
them boil; then dish them. • « 

TO BROWN OYSTERS IN THEIR OWN JUICE. 

From a Cookery Book over 100 years old. 

Take the largest you can get, wash them clean throu<jfli 
their own juice, lay them close together in a frying pan, 
but don't put one above another ; make them of a fine 
brown on both sides ; if one panful is not sufficient, do otf 
more ; when they are all done, pour in some of the juice 
into the pan ; let it boil a little, and mix any of the thick- 
ness of the oysters that may remain in the pan, and pour 
it over them. Of all the ways of dressing them, this is 
the most delicious. 




UNSURPASSED FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Home Messenger. 

For one can of oysters use one pint of thick cream; 
clean all the li(|[Uor from the oysters, and put them overj 
steam until hot ; at the same time thicken the cream witli 
flour, and season with salt, pep])t'r, and a small pinch ofj 
mace, and the same of cinnamon and a very little butter;! 
cook this well, and when done thoroughly, add to it tliej 
li({uor of the oysiers which has been scalded and woU 



Boiled Oysters. 



39 



skimmed until clear; tiicn add ^^he oysters, letting them 
remain just long enough to get plump (if left too long 
they grow tough) ; have ready some toast on a platter, 
iind pour the whole over it, or have leaves and triangles 
of lich paste around the dish, and j)artially moistened by 
tlie fricassee. Your platter must be very hot, as fricasseed 
oysters chill very easily. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

. Home Afessevger. 

Make a rich puff paste, cut in small squares, [)lace a 
layer of oysters, which have beef; dried on a napkin, on 
tlie paste ; dust a little salt, powdered mace, and cayenne 
pepper over them, covering with another piece of paste ; 
wet tlie edges of the paste with cold watei-, using a paste 
\)rusli, and pinch lightly together ; uake in rather a quick 
oven. It should be a light colour. 



TO STEW OYSTERS. 

Put your oysters with all their liquor in*o a saucepan ; 
110 water ; to every dozen add a lump of butter the size 
of a walnut, salt, pepp :v a blade of mace, two bay leaves ; 
hiiltltle for five minutes; add a little cream; sliake all 
well together, and turn them out, grating a little nutmeg 
on each oyster as it lies in the sauce. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Twenty-five large oysters, two tablespoonsful of flour, 
four of milk, four of cracker-dust, two eggs, four table- 
spoonsful of bread-cruinbs, two ounces of butter, the juice 
of half a lemon, salt and pepper to taste , drain all the 
liquc.r from the oysters ; mix upon a plate the flour milk, 
pepper and salt; dip the oysters into this mixture one 



40 



The Canadian Economist . 



by one, and put the cracker dust upon a sheet of paper; 
dip the oysters into tlie dust and roll them from side to 
side ; return them to the plate and let them stand thirty 
minutes, so as the dust will harden with the juice ; beat 
the eggs very light ; dip the oysters one by one into the 
bread-crumbs, and having lightly greased the broiler, put 
them in and broil for five minutes. 



OYSTER PIE. 

CassclVs Household Guide. 

Cover a w-ell-buttered deep plate or tin — a soup-plate 
answers perfectly — with puff ])aste ; lay an extra laytT 
round the edge of the plate, nnd bake it very nearly 
enough. That done, fill the pie with ovsters, seasoning 
with nutmeg, pepper, salt, and butter; dust in a little 
flour amongst them and cover all with thin puff paste ; 
bake (juickly ; when the top crust is done the oysters will 
be done also. If to be eaten hot serve as soon as baked, 
as the crust (juickly absorbs the gravy. If to be eaten 
cold, let it cool, untouched, in the plate or pan. It is 
quite as good in this way as hot, and is excellent for |)ic- 
nics or travelling. 

OYSTER OMELET. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Twelve oysters, if large ; double the number of small 
ones, six eggs, one cup milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Chop the oystei-s verv 
finely. B(»at tlie yolks and whites of the eggs separately, 
as for nice cake — the white until it stands in a heap. Put 
three tablespoonsful of butter in a frying-pan, and heat 
while you are mixing the omelet. Stir the milk into a 
deep dish, with the yolk, and season. Next put in the 
chopped oysters, beating vigorously as you add thorn 
gradually. When they are thoroughly incorporated, pcur 
in the spoonful of melted butter; finally whip in the 



Chicken and Oyster Croquettes. 



41 



whites lightly, and with as few strokes as possible. Tf the 
hutter is hot, and it ought to be, that the omelet n»ay not 
stand uncooked, put the mixture into the pan. Do not 
stir it, but when it begins to stiffen — " to set," in culinary 
jihruse — slip a broad-bladed, round-pointed dinner knife 
aiuund the sides, and cautiously under the omelet, that 
the butter may reach every part. As soon as the centre 
is fairly set, turn out into a hot dish. Lay the latter 
liottom upward over tlig frying pan, which must be turned 
upside down dexterously. This brings the brown side of 
the omelet uppermost. This omelet is delicious and easily 
made. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

Home Messenger. 

Should be served at a party or small entertainment on 
a handsome block of ice that has been hollowed out on 
the top. Set the ice on a platter and gai-nish the edges 
v.ith quarters of lemons. Be careful that in its melting 
the water does not overflow. For a second course at 
dinner and luncheons, lay three or four oysters on an 
individual oyster dish, garnished with lemon; lay a sprig 
of tlie yellow heart of celery across. Have pepper, salt 
and vineofar at hand. 



CHICKEN AND OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Home Messenger. 

Take equal quantities of chicken and oysters, chopped 
[fine, with a cup of sifted bread-crumbs and a piece of 
[butter; season with salt and pepper, and if liked a piece 
>f mace ; moisten witli one or two well-beaten eggs ; form 
jiiito long, slender rolls and fry in lard to a light brown ; 
Iserve on a napkin, and garnish with celery-tops or pars- 
[ley, and slices of lemon. 



CHAPTER IV. 
TO COOK 0L4MS. 

Miss Beecher. 

THIN-EDGED clams are the best ones. Roast tl^ am in 
a pan over a hot fire, or in a hot oven; placing them 
so as lo save the juice. When they open, empty the juice 
into a sauce-pall, and add the clams with butter, pepper, 
and very little salt. To boil them, put them in a pot 
with a very little water and so as to save their juices, 
Pnjceed as above, and lay buttered toast in the dish when 
you take them up. Clams are good put into a batter 
and fried. 

TO DRESS BOILED CRABS. 

Wanw8 ^very-day Cookery. 

Empty the large shell ; mix the flesh with a very little 
oil, vinegar, salt, white-pepper and Cayenne to your taste: 
replace the meat in the large shell, and place it in thej 
dish M'^ith the claws. 



; f 






DEVILLED CRAB. 

The Dimiei' Year Book. 

One cupful of crab meat picked from the shells of well 
boiled crabs, two tables[)oonsful of tine bread-crumbs orj 
rolled cracker, yolks of two hard-boiled eggs (chopped j 
juice of a lemon, half a teaspoonful of made mustarrl, 
little Cayenne pepper and salt, one cupful of good drawnj 



^>: 



» - ^ 



A Fricasaee of Lobsters. 



43 



butter. Mix one spoonfni of the crumbs with the ch(^p- 
])('(! crab-meat, yolks, seasoning, and drawn-butter. Fill 
scallop shells — lar«ife clam, shell will do, or small patty- 
pans — with the mixture. Sift crumbs over the top, and 
lieat to slight browning in a quick oven. 

TO CHOOSE CRABS. 

Wames Every-day Cookery. 

The heaviest crabs are usually considered the best, 
although those of a middle size are the sweetest, when 
peifectly fresh and in perfection. The shell, whether 
dead or alive, should be of a bright red colour, and the 
joints of the legs stiff. Crabs are stale when the eyes 
look dull. They are boiled in the same manner as the 
lobsters, but require a much longer time, and are usually 
eaten cold. 

CRAB CURRY. 

Soyer. 

Prepare the onions and curry precisely as in the last, 
but adding the flesh of a crab (bi'oken small) instead of a 
lobster ; let it stew over the fire about twenty minutes, 
add the juice of half a lemon and serve as before. 

A FRICASSEE OF LOBSTERS. 

Old Cookery Book. 

After boiling 3'our lobstei's, pick the meat out of the 
toes (claws) and tail, cut it into square or long pieces, not 
too small ; pick also the good meat out of the body. If 
it be a coral lobster, be sure you take all the red. Take 
as much good stock of any kind of meat as will cover 
them ; in which yo'i may boil a blade of mace and some 
I lemon peel ; thicken it with a piece of butter wrought in 
Itlour; when it boils put in your lobsters; oast the eggs 



44 



The Canadian Economist 



and otlier materials in the same manner as in the sauce for 
the whitings ; do not have too much sauce, as it must be 
pretty thick. All I'licasse? sauces are the better of a little 
thick sweet cream. Take some of the under ends of the 
small toes (claws) and sliced lemon for garnishing your 
dish. 

FRIED CLAMS. 

What I knoiv. 

Beat up an egg and grate a cracker or two, sprinkle 
pepper on your clams, dip them one by one into the egg, 
then into the grated cracker. Fry in butter and lard in 
equal j)roportions. They take but a few minutes. 

TO MAKE CRAB PIES. 

After your partons (crabs) are boiled, pick the meat 
clean off the body and claws. Be sure that you leave 
none of the shell amongst the meat, season it with salt 
and spices ; put in some crumbs of bread, put in a good 
quantity of butter and a little water, then put thcui on 
the fire and let them be thoroughly boiled. Wash the 
shells of the body very clean and fill them up with the 
meat, as far as it will go ; fire them in an oven, or if you 
have not an oveYi at hand, put them on a gridiron over a 
clear fire ; then brown them before the fire. 



CLAM FRITTERS. 

Home Messenger. 

Twelve clams minced fine, one pint of milk, three egnfs, 
add the liquor from the clams to the milk. Bjat up the 
eggs and put to this, with salt and pepper and flour 
enough for a thin batter, lastly add the chopped clams. 
Fry in hot lard, trying first to see if fat and batter are 
right. A tablespoonful makes a batter of moderate size. 
Fry quickly and serve hot. 



Dressed Crab. 



45 



THE CRAB. 

The flesh of the crab is agreeable in flavour, firm and 
white in the claws, reddish white and softer in the body, 
nutritive and moderately digestible. It frequently, how- 
ever, disagrees with those who are subject to attacks of 
indigestion ; and the flesh of the great shell is considered 
most liable to produce such ettects. Crabs are in the 
finest condition from March to October, and are prepared 
for the table by gradual and slow boiling in sea-water 
or water containing common salt. They are also used in 
the formation of soups, and from the quantity of gelatine 
and albumen they contain, are considered nutritious ; but 
tliese are rarely employed in this country. 

DRESSED CRAB. 

Works of art require time and patience, so does this ; 
but do not be disheartened, it is worth the trouble, 
(hack all the claws of the crab, keeping the flesh from 
tlie joints as entire as possible. Set it aside. Save the 
four black tips of the shells of the large claws, which 
cliildren call " soldiers," for ornament. Take the breast 
or thorax from the great shell. After clearing away the 
apron, the gills or " dead men," etc., pick out all the white 
meat and place it on a plate. On another plate put the 
tinn contents of the carapace (white, yellow and coral), 
dividing them into pieces the size of hazel-nuts, and re- 
jecting all film- water, water, etc. In the middle of the 
disli, not too large, in which you serve your crab, lay the 
Contents of the carapace or bottom over that, put the 
pickings of the breast, and above and around all arrange 
neatly the pieces from the claws, garnishing with the 
"soldiers" at four opposite points. Surround the pile 
with a moderate quantity of mixed salad — cpiartered 
lettuce hearts, blanched endive, water-cres.ses or ether 
i nice kinds that may be in season. Over the crab only, 
[pour some approved salad mixture made nearly as thick 



4G 



The Canadian Economist. 



as mayonnaise sauce. When its turn comes send the dish 
round, for each person to help himself with a spoon. 

SCALLOPED CRAB. 

Pick out all the contents of the crab as before, only 
mix them all carefully together. To them add about one- 
third their quantity of grated bread-crumbs, a good lump 
of butter divided into little bits, not much pepper, less 
salt, a dust of grated nutmeg, and a dessertspoonful of 
vinegar or lemon-juice sprinkled over tl»e mass. Mix all 
carefully together ; clean out the bottom shell of your 
crab and fill it with the mixture ; what is left you may 
pour into scallop-shells or tins. Set them into tlie oven of 
your cooking-stove, moderately hot. When hot through 
and slightly browned on the surface, they are fit to serve | 
on a dish covered with a napkin, tiie crab-shell in tlu' 
middle, and the scallop-shells around it, garnished with 
sprigs of parsley. Or after gently warming the crali- 
meat, &C., in a stew-pan, you may distribute it between 
the crab-shell and the scallops, and brown their surface 
under a salamander. 



LOBSTER CURRY. 

Soyer. 

Procure a large boiled loV)ster, break the shell and takej 
out the llesh in as large pieces as possible, cutting the 1 
into about six pieces, and the claw s of a proportionate! 
size ; then cut two onions into small slices, which put! 
into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, fry theiiij 
of a light yellow^ colour, then mix in a good tablespoon-i 
ful of mild curry paste, or half powder and half paste,! 
and add a pint of good broth, then boil it up over thel 
fire until becoming a little thickish, when put in the lol*- 
ster, stir the whole round, then cover the stewpan closelyj 
and put it into a moderate oven lialf an hour, by whicij 



Lobster Curry. »*, 

time the currv would Ha nf a ^.^^^^ • . 

lobster very "de.ie^li'MKw r 'feftair": 

occasionally. "^ ' ^ ^^^'^ ^^"^^ Moisten it 





CHAPTER V. 

GENERAL REMARKS ON FISH. 

Mrs. Brouyh. 

F( )R all kinds of fish for boiling, such as Haddock, Tur- 
bot, Salnion. — To every quart of water put two tea- 
spoonsful of salt, and if the fish be whole, as soon as it 
boirins to boil remove the cover on one side, and let it siiii- 
mer gently till (piite done. If your fish weii«:hs from three 
to fourpounds, it will take from twenty-five to thirty 
minutes doing on a moderate fire; then slip it on your 
dish on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. Browjh. 

The great art in frying is to have it free from grease, 
and in that state it is one of the most delicate descrip- 
tions of food that can lie given to an invalid, and at the 
same time the most nourishing. The sudden immeisionl 
in the fat solidifies the albumen in the flesh of the fi.slij 
and renders it easy of digestion. The coating of bread- 
cruuibs prevents the fat penetrating into the fish. 

TO BROIL FRESH SHAD AND OTHER FISH. 

Split, wjish and dry in a cloth, lay the fish, the outside 
uppermost, over the coals, and broil a quarter of an hourj 
or more. Butter it well, season with pepper and salt! 
send it to the table hot. | 

The quality of fish depends in a great measure on its 
being in or out of season ; certain kinds are said to t^d 



m m 



Tarhot. 



\i) 



nlmost poisonous when out of season, ahd projtuce the 
identical syinj)tonis occasioned by poison. A very small 
(juantity of salmon or skate, it' eaten at iin[)n)per times, 
is sutHcient to create a violent purging or vomiting." 

TO FRY SALMON STKAKS 

Mrs. Bivvgh. 

Put into the fryingpari one ounce of butter, then fot 
each steak have ready a piece of writing paper, rub on 
one side with butter, lay the steak on the buttered side, 
and bring the four corners of the paper all over the steak, 
then put in the fryingpan and cook with a moderate fire, 
the paper will become brown, but you will have all the 
tine llavoui' (jf the fish preserved ; when cooked take oft' 
the paper and serve. 

FRESH MACKKFiKL (BOILED). 

Mth. Herri/, Tin'oiifo. 

Clean the mackerel and wiite carefully with a<lry, clean 
cloth; wash them lightly with another cloth clipped in 
vinegar ; wrap each in a coarse linen cloth (floured), basted 
closely to the shape of the fish ; put them into a pot with 
enough salted water to cover them, and boil them gently 
lor half an hour; drain them well ; take a teacup of the 
water in which they were boiled and put into a saucepan 
with a tab'espoonful of walnut catsup ; let this boil up 
well and add a lump of butter the size of an egg, with a 
tahlespoonful of browned flour wet in cold water. 

TURBOT. 

MvH. Broay/u 

Make two incisions with the knife across the back, to 
prevent the white skin on the back from cracking, rub it 

4 



Ai 






^ 



.% 










IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 



I.I 



IIIIIM 

illM 

m 



IIIIM 
||22 

[2.0 

1.8 





1.25 


1.4 


1.6 




^ 6" — 





► 



V} 



<? 



/}. 



'^1 



e. 



e-A 



^W ^' 



'J 






o 



/a 




7 






//a 



Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.>. 14580 

(716) 872-4S03 




* 




■■■i 



50 



The Canadian Economist. 



with a piece of lemon and salt previous to putting the 
water over ; let it lie about three inches under water. A 
turbot of seven or eight pounds weight will take an houi- 
boiling. Serve with sauce. 

TO FRY FISH. 

The fat from salt pork is best ; have enough to cover 
the fish, and it should be hot when laid ; it should be 
rolled in tloui- or Indian meal before frying, and when 
brown take it up. Pour the gravy over tl.e fish, 

BOILED SALMON TROUT. 

Airs. Berry, Toronto. 

Clean, wash and dry the trout, put in a thin cloth fitted 
to the shape of the fish, put in a fishkettle, cover with 
cold salted water, and boil half an hour ; when done un- 
wrap and lay in a hot dish. 

HADDOCK (FRlEDj. 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Place on paper two tablcsj^oonsful of flour ; beat on a 
plate one egg, add a little pepper and salt to some bread- 
crumbs ; dip pieces of the fish in floui", then in egg, and 
roll in bread-crumbs ; place in a pan well prepared and 
cook five minutes. 

HA1)D0(JK (baked). 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Two tablespoonsful of bread-crumbs, one of flour, one of 
chopped paisley, one of milk, one of butter, pepper aii'l 
fjalt; place in a slightly floured bakingpan ; bake for 
three < juarters of an hour. Should it get too dry rub a 
little butter on the back of the fish. 



Baked Black Bass. 



61 



BOILED SALT MACKERKL. 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Soak one night in lukewarm water, and change this to 
eokl water about half an hour before cooking, j)ut on 
with just enough water to cover them, and boil gently for 
twenty-five minutes ; drain carefully, and pour melterl 
butter on them before serving. 

BROILED FRESH MACKEREL. 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Cleanse the fish, as for boiling split it open, so that when 
laid flat the back-bone will be in the middle ; dust lightly 
with salt and lay on a buttered gridiron over a clear fire, 
with the inside downwards until it begins to brown ; then 
tiun it over, when done lay on a hot dish, butter plenti- 
fully, lay another hot dish over it, and let it stand two or 
three minutes before sendinsf it to table. 

TO COOK FINNAN HADDIES. 

Miss Bell Christie. 

Peel and lay in a spider ; cover with water. When 
this water boils, pour it off and add a second supply, but 
not as much as the first. Turn it over, add pepper and a 
piece of butter as large as an egg ; cook twenty minutes. 

BAKED BLACK BASS. 

Home Cook Book. 

Eight good sized onions, chopped fine ; half that quan- 
tity of bread crumbs, butter size of hen's egg, plenty of 
pepper and salt, mix thoroughly with anchovy sauce un- 
til quite red. Stuff' your fish with this compound and 
pour the rest over it with a little red pepper. Shad, 



52 



The Canadian Economist. 



pickerel, and trout, are good the same way. Tom. oes 
can be use<l instead of anchovies. If using them, take 
pork in place of butter, and chop fine. 

FRIED MACKEREL. 

Home Cook Book. 

Cut off the head ; split the fish quite open all alontr 
the belly and below it, lay it flat without removing the 
backbone ; dust with flour and salt and fry in butter. 

STEWED FISH. 

Miss Elliott, Gueljih. 

Take any nice fresh fish of moderate size, and when it is 
drawn and washed, cut it into three or four pieces, and put 
them into a stewpan, with ainply sufficient hot water to 
keep them from burning; season them with a little salt 
and cayenne. After it has been skimmed steadily for 
half an hour, have ready a (juarter of a pound of fresh 
butter mixed into a smooth paste with a heaped table- 
spoonful of flour ; add this to the stew, with a bunch of 
sweet marjoram chopped fine, and a sprig of chopped 
parsley. If approved, add a small onion pared and sliced 
very thin. Cover it closely and let it stew another half- 
hour. Then send it to table. 



SPICED FISH. 

Mhs Elliott, Giielph. 

Cold fi.sh that luis been left at dinner is very nice to 
put away for the supper table. It should be fresh 
salmon, fresh cod, halibut or the remains of any other i 
fine laige fish. Take out the back-bone, and cut the| 
flesh into moderate sized pieces. Lay it in a deep disli, 
that has a cover. Season the fish with cayenne pepper 



Stewed Codfish. 



53 



a little salt, some grated nutmeg and some blades of 
mace, also some whole black pepper-corns, and pour over 
it plenty of good vinegar — tarragon vinegar will be an 
improvement. Cover it closely, and set it in a cold place 
till wanted. We do not recommend cloves or allspice. 
Nutmeg, mace and ginger will be found better. 

CREAM TllOUT. 

Mi8n Elliott, Giielph. 

Having prepared the trout very nicely, and cut off the 
heads and tails, ])ut the fish into boiling water tliat has 
been slightly salted, and simmer for five minutes. Then 
take them out and lay them to drain. Put them into a 
stew pan and season them well with powdered mace, 
nutmeg, and a little cayenne — ail mixed together. Put 
in as much rich cream as will cover the fish, adding the 
fresh yellow rind of a small lemon grated. Keep the pan 
covered and let the fish stew for about ten minutes after 
it has begun to simmer. Then dish the lish, and keep 
them hot till you have finished the sauce. Mix very 
smoothly a small tablespoonful of arrowroot, the juice of 
the lemon and two tablespoonsful of sugar, and stir it 
into the cream. Pour the sauce over the fish and send 
them to table. 

STEWED CODFISH. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Take fine fresh cod and cut into slices an inch thick, 
separate from the bones, lay the pieces of fish in the 
bottom of a stewpan ; season them with grated nutmeg, 
half a dozen blades of mace, a saltspoonful of cayenne 
pepper and a small saucerful of cho|)ped celery or a 
bunch of sweet herbs tied together, add a pint of oyster 
liciuor and the juice of a lemon. Cover it close and let it 
stew gentlv till the fish is almost done, shaking the pan 



54 



The Canadian Economifd. 



frequently. Then take a piece of fresh butter the size of 
an egg, roll it in flour and add it to the stew. Also put 
two dozen fine oysters, with what liquor there is about 
theui. Cover it again, quicken the fiie again a little and 
let the whole continue to stew five minutes longer. Be- 
fore you send it to table, remove the bunch of sweet 
herbs. 

STEWED HALIBUT. 

Cut the fish into pieces about foui- inches square, of 
course omitting the bone. Season it very slightly with 
salt an«l let it rest for half an hour. Then take it out of 
the salt, put it in a large, deep dish and strew over it a 
mixture of cayenne pepper, ground ginger and grated 
nutmeg ; lay among it some small pieces of fresh butter 
rolled in grated bread. Add half a pint of vinegar (tarra- 
gon vinegar if you have it). Vlace the dish in a slow 
oven, and let the halibut cook till thoroughly done, bast- 
ing it very frequently with the liquid. When nearl}' done 
add a large tablespoonful or more of capers or pickled 
nasturtiums. 

FRESH SALMON FRIED. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Cut the slices three-fourths of an inch thick. Dredge 
them with flour or dip them in eggs and crumbs. Fry a 
light brown. Halibut is prepared and fried as salmon. 
Gravy — Butter size of a large eg^^ ; put it in the pan, 
dredge with flour ; let it brown ; add cold water and a 
little anchovy sauce. Boil a few minutes. Seive witli 
the salmon. 

FRESH SALMON BOILED. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

From the inside of a fresh salmon, weighing sixteen or 
eighteen pounds, take four pounds. Wash it carefully, 
^ub the incision with salt ; tie it up in a cloth and boil 



How to Bake n I' ink. 



o;> 



it slowly forty minutes ; when half cooked, turn it over 
in the pot. Serve with egg-sauce or drawn butter and 
parsley. If any remains from dinner, pour one tea-cup of 
vinegar into two tablespoonsful of the liquor in which the 
fish was boiled. Heat it scalding hot and pour it over 
tho salmon. This is a fine relish for breakfast. 

TO BROIL A WHITK FISH. 

Home Messenger. 

Lay the tish wide open upon a double gridiron, and 
broil it as you would a steak. 

DRIED CODFISH. 

Mlt^s Barbara Greig, South Georgetown, 

This should always be laid in soak, at least, one night 
before it is wanted ; then take off the skin, and put tho 
fish in plenty of cold water, boil it gently for one hour, or 
tic it in a cloth and boil it. Serve with Qg^ sauce. 

PICKLED FISH. 

Home Messenger. 

Skin the fish and pack in a dish, cover with olive oil 
or butter ; spice with vinegar, seasoned with pepper, 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice and .alt ; scald these, and pour 
over the fish ; cover closely, and bake till done. 

HOW TO BAKE A FISH. 

Mrs. (Dr.) Hill, Ottawa. 

The more usually received metho.d of preparing either 
fresh water or ocean fish for the table by boiling or 
frying may be judiciously varied by baking. Of course 
this method of cooking is not adapted for the smaller 



5G 



The Canadian Economist. 



varieties of this deli^rlitful and nutritious food, w]»ich is 
more commonly eitlier boiled or fried. But when we 
have a fish of about three or four pounds weight, such as 
a black trout, pike, maskinong^, or possibly haddock, the 
plan of baking will be found a most agreeable change, 
and acceptable to the palate of the most recherche epicure. 
To prepare such a dish in perfection, your first care must 
be to select a fish entirely free from the most distant sus- 
picion of taint, and this caution will equally apply to all 
of the finny tribe destined for the table, for if the least 
sign of decomposition be present the " romance " is en- 
tirely destroyed ; therefore you cannot be too careful in 
this respect, and the well-pi-actised " nose " of the cook or 
mistress of the house will, without difficulty, make a 
judicious selection. To prepare the fish, remove very 
carefully the inside, and wash thoroughly with plent}- of 
soft water (either i-ain or river); thoroughly dry with a 
nice soft cloth or han<l towel ; then prepare a sufficient 
quantity of bread-crumbs, mixed with powdered sage and 
seasoned to the palate with pepper and salt, with which 
you are to fill the belly part of the fish as full ns possible, 
which must then be carefully sewn up to keep the " stuff- 
ing" from falling out. Have your stove fire going just as 
you would have it prepared for baking an ordinary joint 
of meat. Place the fish in an iron pan and put it in the 
oven, floui'ing it, and basting it occasionally with good 
clean diipping. Turn it once or twice from one side to 
the other, until it appears nicely browned, when it will, in 
all probability be properly done. Usually from thirtv- 
five to forty-five minutes will cook an ordinary sized fish 
of three pounds or so, varying of course with its size 
and weight at all times. When serving jt on the tal)lea 
very small quantity of powdered sugar may be judiciously 
thrown over it, an(V nicely prepared drawn butter witli- 
out anchovy. Soy, or other fish sauce, appears to be the 
correct thing. Try this dish and you wiH not hesitate to 
adopt it among your favoured receipts, on the experience 
pf a;^ old Housekeeper. 



Curried Fish 



67 



liROILED SALMON. 

Mli^s Barhara Grelg, South (Jeorgetoivn. 

(^iit some slices an incli thick, and hroil tliem over a 
brit;ht tire for ten or twelve minutes. When both sides 
are done, place them on a hot dish. Butter each slice 
well with sweet butter. Strew over each a little salt and 
pepper to taste and serve. 

TO BAKE FISH IN A TIN DISH. 

Scale and clean the fish ; diy it well ; put an ounce of 
butter or dripping in the dish, and s))rinkle a little chop- 
ped parsley and onions at the bottom ; lay in the fish, 
season with pepper and salt, and lay over the rest of the 
chopped onions and parsley with some bread-crund)s and a 
little bit of butter or fat, and a little water or broth over 
all ; put the dish in the oven till done. 

TO FRY FISH. 

The art of frying fish, consists in having })lenty of grease 
in the pan, and making it boil to the utmost befoie putting 
in the fish, which should have been laid to dry for some 
time in a cloth, and then rubbed with eggs and dipped in 
bread-crumbs ; the grease should be so hot that it browns 
the fish, not burns it, the fish should be turned over. A 
fish well fried is not an economical dish, because it requires 
a <,Meat deal of fat to fry it in. 

CURRIED FISH. 

Miss Rachel McDonald, Cornwall. 

Divide your fish into cutlets, skin, bone, flour, season 
with pepper and salt, and fry them slowly in dripping. 
Have ready some rice steamed or boiled. Arrange it in 
heaps around the edge of the platter. Within it lay the 
iish cutlets, and into the centre of dish pour the curry 
prepared i^ the usual way. 



58 



The Canadian Economist. 



FISH. 

Soijer. 

Fish ought to be made an article of diet more often 
than it is, as the particles it contains tend to purify tin; 
blood from the grossness it receives in partaking of animal 
food ; and, when taken at the commencement of dinnei-, 
tends to assist the digestion of those uibstances which 
form the more substantial part of the meal. 

HERR1N(JS KOII,ED. 

Soyer. 

Boil six herrings about twenty minutes in plenty of 
salt and water, but only just to simmer ; then have ready 
the following sauce : — Put half a gill of cream upon the 
fire in a stew-pan ; when it boils add eight spoonsful of 
melted butter, one ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper 
and salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; dress the fish upon 
a dish without a napkin ; sauce over and serve. 

FILLETS OF MACKEREL. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

This fish is not considered easy of digestion, and the 
bitter taste it often has renders it disagreeable to many 
persons. There is reason to believe fresh mackerel to be 
both as wholesome and delicious as other fish, if properly 
treated by the cook, the fact being that the want of proper 
cleaning gives the mackerel the bad qualities assigned to 
it. Fish-mongers cannot clean mackerel properly without 
opening the fish and thus damaging its appearance, it must 
therefore be done bv the cook. The brown substance 
adhering somewhat closely to the back-bone near the head, 
is the cause of the bitter flavour, and it must be carefully 
removed. Open the fish, take out the roe, and wipe away 



Baled Stuvfjeon. 



59 



this brown substance witli a cloth. Remove the back-bone. 
takinfj[ care not to break the fish witli the {-cissors, trim 
away the fins, divide tlie fisli down the middle, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, and flour; place a piece of the roe, 
it iimst be soft roe for an invalid, on each half, roll up 
ti<,'litly, and place in a small baking dish. If k<'pt close 
together the fillets will retain their shape. Mixadessert- 
.spoonful of flour in a tablespoonful of cold water, and 
stir on to it half a pint of boiling water ; add in a tea- 
spoonful of Dinmore's essence of .shrimp, and pour this 
saufo into the <lish with the fish. Lay a piece of butter 
the size of a nut, on each fillet, put the dish into a moder- 
ate oven and bake for threequarters of an hour, or until 
(lone. Five minutes before serving, put a teaspoonful of 
chopj.ed paisley to the fish. The sauce should be the 
thickness of nice buttei- sauce. If too thin before putting 
iti the parsley, drain ofl' the .sauce, boil it u]>, add a little 
Hour, and return to the fish. Let it remain in the oven 
five minutes and serve. 



STURGEON STEAK. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Skim the steaks carefully and lay in cold .salted water 
for one hour, to remove the oily taste, so ofl'ensive to 
most palates. Then wdpe each steak dry, salt and broil 
over hot coals on a buttered gridiron. Serve in a hot dish 
when you have buttered and peppered them, and send up 
garnished with parsley, and accompanied by a small dish 
containing sliced lemon. 

BAKED STURGEON. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

A ))iece of sturgeon weighing five or six pounds is 
fiiough for a handsome dish. Skin it and let it stand in 
salt and water for ha,\{ an hour. Parboil it to remove the 



GO 



The Canadian Economist. 



oil ; make a (Ire.ssing of l)read-c;niiiil)S, minute Vtits of fat 
salt pork, sweet herbs and Imtter ; gash the upper part of 
the fish quite deeply, and rub this force meat well in, j)ut 
in a bttking pan with a little water to kee[) it from burn- 
ing, and bake for an hour. Serve with a sauce of drawn 
butter, in which has been stirred a spoonful of enpor 
sauce and another of catsup. This is a Virginia receipt, 
and an admirable one. 



SALMON CUTLET. 

Little Dinners. 

Have a slice an inch thick cut from the middle of a 
large fish. It will weigh about one pound and a half; 
wrap it up in oiled writing })aper and fry in plenty of 
fat. It will take about ten minutes. Take it up, drain 
all fat away and serve in the paper. 

EXCELLENT WAY TO DRESS FINNAN HADDIES. 



art of cooking firman baddies is 



not generally 



The 
understood. It is usually boiled, by which means a great 
portion of the fish is rendered uneatable, The |)roper way 
is to wash it well in hot water, wipe and place it in a pan 
and pour over milk and water to almost cover it. Bake 
it in an oven twenty minutes, basting occasionally ; when 
done put it on a hot dish, rub it over with a bit of butter, 
and you have a most delicious breakfast dish. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Put the fish into a baking-pan, pour over it boiling 
water and let it stand ten minutes ; at the end of ten mi- 
nutes pour oft* the water and put about a cupful of fresh 
boiling water over the fish and a piece of butter the size \ 
of an egg, and put it in a hot oven. Baste very frequently 
and cook twenty minutes, 



To Boil Fresh Fish. 



61 



TO POT ANY SORT OF FISH. 

Old Cooker D Hook. 

Scrape and clean tlieni well ; cut them in middling 
picc's; season tliem with salt and spices ; pack them close 
u|) in a potting-can with plenty of butter above and be- 
low : tic some folds of coarse paper on the pot ; then put 
thciii in a slow oven, and when tlujy are enough Hzzed 
take them out of the can and drain them well from their 
li(|U()r; let both cool; put the tish into small whiter pots ; 
skim all the butter ott* the li<pior. Then take some more 
butter along with that you take from the li(j[Uor, melt it 
down and pour it on tlie tish. 

Send them in the pots to table. 

TO FRY FRESH FISH. 

WJud I know. 

Have the fish well scalde<l, washed and (b'ained, cut 
slits in the side of each ; season them with salt and pep- 
per, and roll them in corn Hour ; iiave in your frying-pan 
hot lard and bacon drippings ; dip them in i}<^g before 
rolling them in corn flour to keep them from breaking. 

TO BOIL FRESH FISH. 

What I know. 

After being well cleaned rub the fish with salt, and pin 
it in a towel, put it in a pot of boiling Wcater and keep it 
boiling fast ; a large fish will take from half to three quar- 
ters of an hour— a small one from fifteen to twenty mi- 
nutes. A fat shad is very nice boiled, although rock and 
bass are preferred generally; when done take it upon a 
fish dish and cover with egg-sauce or drawn butter and 
parsley. Pickled mushrooms and walnuts and mushroom 
catsup, are good with boiled fish. 



62 



2 he Canadian Economist. 



PICKLED FISH. 

Skin the fisli and ])ack in a deep disli, cover with olive 
oil or butter ; spice with vine^^ar seasoned with peppe", 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice and salt, cover these closely and 
bake until done. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Home Mensenger. 

Quarter pound of pork cut in pieces , put in the bottom 
of the pot and fry out ; put slices of potatoes on this, then 
layer of fish, cut up two onions, sliced, and layer of soda 
crackers ; repeat these layers ; then pour boilino- water 
over till well covered Stew twenty -five minutes. 

FROGS. 

Home Messenger. 

Scald them in salted boiling water, rub them with 
lemon juice, and boil for three minutes ; wipe them ; dip 
them first in cracker dust, then in eggs (half a cupful 
of milk mixed in two eggs, and seasoned with pepper and 
salt), then again in cracker crumbs. When they are well 
covered with crumbs, clean off the bone at the end with 
a dry cloth. Put a tablespoonful of lard and a table- 
spoonful of butter in a spider, over a bright fire, and when 
hot enough put in the frogs and fry. 

THE EDIBLE FROG. 

Davidson on Diet. 

The edible, or green, frog is abundant in the dift'erent 
countries of Europe, though less so in Britain than tlie 
common frog. It is greenish above, with three longitu- 
dinal yellow lines ; beloW; whitish with black spots ; back 
arched or protuberated ; fore feet with four divkled toes; 
hind feet with five webbed toes. It spawns about the 



The Edible Frog. 



63 



month of June, and the young attain tliuir full growth in 
about four years, and live to the age of sixteen or seven- 
teen. It is very tenacious of life, aand survives for a 
considerable time in a mutilated state. It is also very 
voracious, and feeds on worms, snails, and even birds, 
mice, kc, which are swallowed in the entire state. Uses : 
The tlesh of the frog is light, digestible, moderately nu- 
tritious, and its Havour is said to resemble that of the 
chicken. The hind-quarters are most esteemed, and the 
form of dressing generally reconnuended is the fricasnee. 
The other parts of the frog are employed in the formation 
ofa soup which is highly connnended by some authors 
for consumptive persons. Frogs are consumed in innnense 
quantities at Vienna and some of the other larger cities 
of Europe 

They are brought from the country and placed in con- 
servatories or large holes in the gi-ound, four or five feet 
deep. 




CHAPTER VI 
SAUCES. 



GLENGARRY SAUCE. 

Mrs. Alexander, New Edinhiiryh. 

TO two pecks of peeled tomatoes, add one quart of vine- 
gar, one (juarter pound of salt, one quarter pound of 
black pepper, one half-ounce of cayenne pepper, oiif 
quarter pound of allspice, one ounce cloves, six onions 
and three pounds of brown sugar. Boil the tomatoes till 
they can be passed through a sieve, then add the above, 
and boil for one hour. 



CHUTNA SAUCE. 

Mrs. Brown, Ottaiua. 

One pound of stoned raisins, one pound of brown sugar, 
one halt-pound of salt, one half-pound of ginger, one half- 
pound of onions, one quarter-pound of mustard seed, two 
ounces of chillies, one half-pound of garlic, three quarter- 1 
pound green gooseberries (tart ap})les or green grapes, may 
be used in place of gooseberries), these uigredients to U' 
well and separately chopped tine, then ndx altogether witli 
three bottles of vinegar. 

HORSF- RADISH SAUCE. 

Grate a quantity of horse-radish. Boil it in sviiH* 
-cient water to give it the consistency of sauce, add a pi 



White Sauce. 



65 



of salt and fcwo or three tablespoonsful of Tarragon vine- 
(i-ar, then stir in, off the fire, a gill of cream beaten up 
with the yolk of an egg. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRY SAUCE FOR BOILED MACKEREL. 

Warne's Domestic Cookery. 

Half a pint of green gooseberries ; two tablespoons- 
f 111 of green sorrel ; a sm all piece of butter, ten ounces of 
sugar, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Wash some green 
sorrel, and press out the juice through a cloth; boil half 
a pint of green gooseberries, drain them from the water, 
ami rub them through a sieve. Put the sorrel juice into 
a stewpan, allowing about a wineglassful of it to the pulp 
of the gooseberries', add a small piece of butter, a lump of 
sugar, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Make the sauce very 
hot, and serve it up in a tureen. 

CHILLI SAUCE. 

Mrs. Grannels, Ottawa 

Eight large onions sliced fine, or rather chopped fine, 
eight red peppers also chopped, one peck of tomatoes pre- 
pared as for table, eight tablespoonsful of salt, one and a 
half tablespoonsful of cinnamon, two nutmegs, one tea- 
spoonful cf ginger, sixteen cupsful of vinegar, sixteen 
tablespoonsful of sugar. Boil all together. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Mrs. Brough 

Rub, into a convenient-sized stewpan, four ounces of 
butter, eight ounces of "Hour. Keep stirring well, take 
the pan from the fire, and stir till nearly cool, then pour 
in surtioient white-stock, until it is of a nice consistency. 
Put on the fire and boil for a quarter of an hour. Keep 
stirring continually. Pass it through a sieve to keep for 
5 



66 



The Canadian Economist. 



use. This sauce is the foundation of all white sauces. 
Instead of usin^f butter, use sometimes the \ 3lk of an e-^r 
and mix with milk or cream, instead of water, a bladu 
of mace is an improvement when boiling, and stir. 



BROWNING FOR SAUCES. 

Put one half-pound of sugar into an iron saucepan, 
and melt it over a moderate tire for about twenty-hvc 
minutes, stirring continually until it is quite black, Imt 
i* must become so by degrees, as too sudden a heat will 
make it bitter, then add three pints of water, and in ten 
minutes the sugar will be dissolved. Bottle for use. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

Peel and grate some green cucumbers. Let the pulp 
remain on a colander, until the juice drains off, and take 
the seeds out. Half till the bottles with this pulp. Fill 
up with vinegar and keep well corked. 

LEMON PUDDING SAUCE. 

To the juice of one large lemon, add one pint of water, 
boil and thicken with corn starch, say one spoonful j 
sweeten to taste, and add a little lemon essence if desired. 

GREEN MAYONNAISE. 

Miss Elliott, GiLelph. 

This is a fine accompaniment to cold poultry, w 
must be cut into small pieces, as for chicken salad, iisiii^' 
only the white meat. To begin the Mayonnaise : Put 
into a shallow pan the yolks of three fresh eggs, having' 
strained out the specks. Having beaten them till liglit 
and thick, add, by degrees, a half-pint of salad oil, stirring' 
it gradually, so that no oil whatever is to be seen on the 



Caulifloiver Sauce. 



67 



aucos. 
m egg 
blade 



icepan, 
ity-iive 
ck, "l>ut 
sat will 
\ in ten 
.se. 



the pulp 
and take 



, of water, 

spoonful. 

i desive^l. 



\lad, usiui: 
aise : P"^ 
gs, bavin;: I 

Ttill ligl« 
:d, stin-iii? 
icn on tW| 



surface. Then add two tablespoonsful of Tan agon vine- 
«rar, next, a few drops of shalot vinegar, or a very small 
onion minced as finely as possible. If you liave at hand 
any clear meat gravy, for instance, veal, stir in two or 
three tablespoonsful. Add the grated yellow rind and 
the juice of a lemon. Pound as much spinach as will 
yield a small teaspoonful of green juice. Give it a short 
boil up to take off the rawness, and mix it with the 
mayonnaise. When cold, pour it over the dish of cold 
poultry. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guclph. 

This is only used for roast land) in the spring. Take a 
large bunch of fine fresh green mint, that has been wash- 
ed well. Strip the leaves from the stems, and mince them 
small. Put it into a pint bowl, and mix with it gradu- 
ally some of the best vinegar. This sauce must not ])e 
the least liijuid, but as thick as horse-radish sauce, t»r 
thicker. Make it very thick with the best brown sugar. 
Mix it well, and transfer to a small tureen or sauceboat ; 
a ([uart or more of mint sauce made as above, but with a 
larger pro})ortion of sugar and vinegar, will keep very 
well for several weeks in ajar well corked. 

CAULIFLOWER SAUCE. 

-i 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Have read}'' some very nice melted butter, made with 
milk, and flavoured with nutmeg. Thicken it with ready- 
boiled cauliflower cut into little sprigs or blossoms. Give 
it one boil up after the cauliflower is in, and send it to 
table with ai;y sort of boiled poultry. It will be found 
very nice. For a boiled turkey, it is far superior to celery 
sauce. 



68 



The Canadian Economist. 



PARSLEY SAUCE. 

M'i^s Elliott, Giielph. 

Strip from the stalks the leaves'of some fresh green 
parsley ; allow plenty of it ; chop it sliglitly, and whilu 
the drawn butter is hot, stir it into tlie parsley, till tlie 
butter looks very green. Serve it up with boiled fowl, 
rabbits, or tisli. The appearance of parsley sauce will Ito 
much improved by stirring in some spinach juice. The 
whole will then be a line i^reen. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Gaelpli. 

Boil four Q''!,^^ from eight to twelve minutes. Then 
lay them in a pan of fresh water, and let them remain till 
quite cold. Peel off the shells and take out the eggs. 
Chop the yolks and whitos separately; mix: them liglitly 
into onedialf pound of mid ted fresh butter, made in the 
proportion of a ([uarter pound of butter to two large table- 
spoonsful of Hour, ami four of milk and hot water, add 
some powdered mace, or nutuieg. Egg sauce is eaten with 
boiled tish and poultry, instead of milk or water, you can 
use for the melted butter, some of the water in which 
chicken or turkey was boiled, or some veal gravy. 

FRIED PARSLKY. 

Miss Elliott, Giu'lph. 

• Pick the small sprigs of parsley from the large stalks. 
Wash it, and then throw it into clear cold water. After 
the meat or fish that it is to accompany has been fried and 
taken out of the pan, give the fat that remains a boil up. 
and lay the parsley into it. It will crimp and still con- 
tinue green, if not kept frying too long. Take it out. 
drain it, and place it before the tire a few minutes to diain 
it from the fat. Dish it, laid down on the top of the lish 
or steaks. 



Kasturtmm Sauce. 



GO 



frveou 
while 
U the 
fowl, 
nil be 
The 



Thou 
laiu till 

1 lightly 

1} ill the 

fc table- 

cr, ail<l 

:en witli 

you can 



liicli 



fQ stalks. 
'. At'tev 
fried au*l 
boil up, 
Is till con- 
ic it out, 
i to dviii" 
the fisli 



FENNEL SAUCE. 

Mi^'s Elliott, Glu'lph. 

The fennel should he young and fresh. Take a large 
handful or more, and having washed it clean, strip the 
leaves from the stems, and boil it till (juite tender. Put 
it into a sieve, and press the water well from it. Mince 
it very small, and stir it into melted butter. It is served 
up with veal and boiled mackerel, instead of melted 
butter, you may put the fennel into gravy, thickened with 
butter nnd dredged in flour. 

FINE ONION SAUCE. 

j\Iiss Elliott, GiU'ljfh. 

Peel some nice mild onions an<l boil them in plenty of 
milk, sprinkling them well. AVhen done, takt; them out 
of the milk (saving it) and slice them veiy thin, cutting 
the slices across, so as to make the pieces of onion very 
small, return them to the saucepan of milk (adding some 
tVesh butter dredged with Hour) season them with jxjw- 
(lered mace or nutmeg, and give the onions another boil, 
till they are soft enough to mash and to thicken the milk 
all through. Eat this sauce with steaks, cutlets, rabbits, 
or chickens. 

PLAIN ONION SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Gael ph. 

Perl some very small onions, and boil them whole in 
milk, seasoned slightly with pepjjcr and salt, and put in 
some bits of butter rolled in flour. Let them boil till ten- 
der all through, but not till they lose their shape. Eat 
them with any sort of boiled meat. 

NASTURTIUM SAUCE. 

This is eaten with boiled mutton, and is superior to 
caper sauce. Gather the green seeds when they are full 



70 



The Canadian Economist. 



grown, and throw tliem into ajar of vinegar without the 
stems. They require no cooking, but keep a muslin bag 
of spice in the jar (mace and nutmeg broken small and 
a little piece of hot ginger). To use them for sauce, make 
some nice melted butter, and as it simmers, throw in plenty 
of nasturtiums from the jar. The seeds when gathered 
should be full grown, but by no means hard, and the colour 
a fine green. If there is the slightest brown tinge, the 
nasturtium seeds are too old, and should be kept fur 
planting. 

TO BROWN FLOUR. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Spread some flour on a plate, set it in the oven, turn- 
ing it up and down and Stirling it frequently that it may 
brown equally all through. Put it in a jar and keep it 
covered well ; it is useful to stir into gravies to thicken 
and colour them. 

BROWN BUTTER. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan and toss it 
round on the fire till it becomes brown. Then dredge 
some brown flour on it and stir it round with a spoon till 
it boils ; it must be made quite smooth. 



DRAWN BUTTER. 

Wind I know. 

Put half-pint of water in a skillet, rub (piarter-pound of 
butter in a large spoonful of flour ; when the water boils 
stir it in and let it boil a few minutes ; season it with par- 
sley chopped fine, minced onions (one teaspoonful), parsley 
and thyme. Add all these to di-awn butter. It is very 
nice for boiled chickens, fish, or leg of mutton. 



Cranberry Smtce. 71 

CAPER SAUCE. 

What I knoiv. 

Put some capers in your butter-boat, and pour drawn 
butter over them. Nasturtiums make almost as good a 
sauce as capers, and are prepared in tlie same way. A few 
of them pickled are put in a boat — a butter-boat — and 
drawn butter poured over them. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

What I know. 

Oyster sauce is made in the same way as drawn-butter, 
only putting the flour and butter into the oyster juice 
instead of water. Either cut the oysters in two or not; 
season with mace, salt and pepper. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Giiclph. 

Pick the cranberries clean, seeing that no stems, sticks, 
or dead leaves are left among them ; put them into a 
colander, or sieve, and wash them thi'ough two waters ; 
cook them in an enamelled stew-})an, with or without ad- 
ditional water. The water that remains about them after 
washing is quite sutticient for stewing them properly. IMo 
stewed fruit should be too thin or liquid. Keep a steady 
heat under the. cranberries, stirring them up from the bot- 
tom frequentl}' ; and, when they are soft, mash them with 
the hack of a spoon. When they are quite shapeless, take 
them off the fire, and while they are very hot stir in •'•ra • 
dually iin ample quantity of nice brown sugar. They re- 
quire much sweetening ; season them with nothing else. 
Their natural flavour is sufficient (if well sweetened), and 
cannot be inqjroved by spice, lemon, or any of the usual 
condiments. 



72 



Tlie Canadian Economist, 



SAGE AND ONION SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Gael2)h. 

Take a bunch of fresh sage leaves ; wash and drain 
them ; pick them from the stems, and put them to boil in 
a small saucepan, with just water enough to cover them ; 
boil them fast about ten minutes ; take them out and 
press them in a sieve, to dmin them dry ; then mince or 
chop them small. Have ready two onions, boiled tender, 
in another saucepan ; chop them Hne, and mix them well 
with the minced sage. While warm, mix in a small bit 
of nice butter, season with pepper. Put this sauce into a 
little tureen, and serve up with roast goose, roast duck ux 
roast pork, that has been stuffed with potato, bread, or 
other stufling. The sage and onion sauce is for those who 
prefer their Havour to any other seasoning for tliosf 
dishes. This sauce will be greatly improved if moistened 
with the gravy of the duck or goose. 

WHITE THICKENING. 

Mis8 Elliott, Guelph. 

Cut up quarter of a pound of the best fresh butter, and 
put it into a well tinned or enamelled saucepan; set it 
over a moderate tire, and melt it slowly, shaking it round 
frequentl}'^, and taking care to skim it well ; when no 
more scum appears on the surface, let it settle a few min- 
utes, then pour it off from the sediment at '^e bottom. 
Wash the saucepan, or get another clean one, return tlic 
melted butter to it, and set it again over the fire ; then 
dredge in gradually sutiicient sifted flour to make it very 
thick and smooth, stirring it well after each addition of 
flour. Do not allow it to brown in the slightest degree, 
but keep it perfectly white to the last, simmering, but nut 
actually boiling, and taking care that there is no smoke 
about the fire. To thicken white sauces or soups, stir in 
a tablespoonful or two of this mixture. 



Horse- ItddlKh Sauce. 



78 



BROWNING. 

Miss Elliott, Giielph. 

This is to oniich tho ttiste and iin])rovc the colour of 
pavies, stews and soups. Mix u ([uarter of a pound of 
powdered white sugar witli two ounces of fine fresh but- 
ter ; and, having stirred them well together, put them in- 
to a saueepnn over the fire, and simmer until it begins to 
froth ; then diminish the heat a little. When its colour 
])ec'oines a fine dark brown, add a little broth and some 
Idades of mace powdered. When it comes to a boil, take 
it off, and stir it into whatever you intend to colour. 



CELERY SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, GudpJu 

S|)lit and cut up into short slips a bunch of celery, hav- 
ing taken off the green leaves from the tops. The celery 
must have been well washed, and laid an hour in cold 
water. Take a pint of milk, and cut up into it a quarter of 
a pound of fresh butter that has been well dredged with 
flour ; set it over the fire in a saucepan, and add the 
colery gradually, also three or four l)lades of mace, broken 
up. Boil all slowly together, till the celery is quite soft 
and tender, but not dis.solved. The green to])s of the 
celery, strewn in when it begins to sinnner, will improve 
the flavour. Celery sauce is served up with boiled tur- 
key, boiled fowls, and with any sort of fresh fish, boiled 
or fried. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Aliss Ilopkivk, Ottdwa. 

One teaspoonful of made mustard, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, three tablespoonsful of thick cream, add grated 
horse-radish till it is as thick as onion sauce. 



74 



The Canadian Economist. 



CARRIKR SAUCE. 

Book of the Iloitsehold. 

Scrape a small stick of liorse-radisli, cut an onion or 
two in thin .slices, put these into a sauce tureen, with a 
little vinegar and whole pepper, and set the tureen in a 
dripping-pan under a roast of mutton. Serve the sauce 
quite hot with the meat. 

pooit man's sauce. 

Booh of the Household. 

Pick a handful of parsley leaves from the stalks, and 
mince them fine ; strew over these a little salt, shred fine 
six young green onions, add the paisley to them, and put 
the whole into a sauce-boat, with three tahlespoonsful of 
oil, five of vinc'^nir, some ground Llack pepper, and salt, 
stir all these together, and send it up to table. You may 
add to it, pickled French beans, or gherkins cut fine, or a 
little grated horse-radish. 

SAUCE ROBERT. 

Book of the Household. 

Cut a few onions into dice, which put into a f?ying-i)an 
with a bit of butter, and fry them lightly. When nicely 
browned, add a dessertspoonful of tlour, a ladleful of 
stock, the same of vinegar, some salt and pepper ; reduce 
it to a proper thickness, and when ready for table stir in 
two dessertspoonsful of mustanl. 

CHILLI SAUCE. 



Miss Junor, St. Mary s. 

Eighteen large ripe tomatoes, six onions, three red pep- 
pers, three tablespoonsful of salt, five cupsful of vinegar; 
chop fine, cook one hour, one cup of sugar. 



Lemon Smtcefor Boiled Fo^vIh. 75 

WORCESTER SAUCE. 

Mrs. Kurt is, Bradford, Pa. 

Cliop fine twenty-four ripe tomatoes peeled, four fjrecn 
pcppt'is, one large onion, one (piart of vinegar, half a eu|>- 
iul of sugar, two tablespoonsful of salt, one ounce of gin- 
fjer, one of allspice, one of cloves, one nutmeg ; mix well, 
sinuner for two or three hours until (juite thick. 

FRESH TOMATO SAUCE. 

This may be served with I'oast meat or poultry, chops, 
cutlets, or used for mingling with hashes and stews. 
Take a dozen of tomatoes ; skin them and take out the 
seeds ; put the pulp in a saucepan with a piece of butter, 
the size of an egg of laurel leaf, and a little thyme. Stew 
it over a moderate tire, stirring it the while. Add a little 
stock or brown sauce. When the mixture has boiled a 
short time, pass it through a sieve and flavour it with salt 
and cayenne. 

ANOTHER TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cut ten or a dozen tomatoes into quarters, and put 
them into a saucepan with four onions shelled, a little 
j)arsley, a little thyme, one clove, and a (quarter-pound of 
butter. Set the saucepan on the fire, stirring the con- 
tents for about three-(juarters of an hour. Sti'ain the 
sauce through a horse hair sieve and serve. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWLS. 

.Domestic Cookery. 

Take a lemon and pare off the rind, then cut it into 
slices, take the kernels out and cut it into small, square 
bits; blanch the liver of the fowl, and chop it fine; mix 
the lemon and liver together in a boat ; pour on some 
hot melted butter, and stir it up. 



7G 



The Canadian Economist. 



TO CRISP PARSLEY. 

When you have picked and washed your parsley 
quite clean, put it into a dutch oven, or on a sheet of 
paper. Set it at a moderate distance from the tire, and 
keep turning it till it is quite crisp. Lay little bits of 
butter on it, but not to make it greasy. This is a better 
method than that of frying, 

PRINCE Alfred's sauce. 

Little Dinners. 

Vinegar, one and a half pints; water, one half pint; 
India Soy, one half pint; walnut catsup one half pint; 
chillies, one ounce ; shalots, two ounces ; burnt sugar or 
colouring, one ounce. Bruise the shalots, and boil the 
whole for ten minutes ; let it stan<l until cold, strain and 
bottle it. This is an excellent sauce for cold meat, tisli, 
or steaks, and can be used whenever piquant sauce is 
required. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Little Dinners. 

One ounce of flour mixed smooth in four tablespoons- 
ful of cold water. Stir it into half a ])int of fast boiliiiij 
water ; add a pinch of salt, let it boil up ; then stir in one 
and a half ounces of butter. 



ORANGE SAUCE FOR GAME. 

Soyer. 

Peel half an orange, removing all the pith ; cut it intd 
slices, and then in tillets ; put tliem in a gill of water to 
boil for two minutes ; drain theui on a sieve, throwini;" tin' 
water away; place in the stew-pan two tablespoonsful 
of broth, and, when boiling, add the orange, a little su^^ar, 
simmer ten minutes, skim and serve. The juice of half an 



IB 



A Very Good and Usefid White Sauce. 



77 



orange is an improvement. This is served with duckling 
;m<l waterfowl. 

GARLIC SAUCE. 

Soyer. 

Though many dislike the flavour ol* this root, yet those 
that like it ought not to be deprived of it. Put in a 
stew-pan ten tablespoonsful of broth, a little tomatoes, if 
handy. Boil it a few minutes ; scrape half a clove of 
garlic, put it in with a little sugar and serve. 

MINT SAUCK FOR LAMB. 

SoTjer. 

Take three tablespoonsful of chopped leaves of green 
mint, three of brown sugar, and put into a basin with half 
a pint of brown vinegar, stir it up, add one saltspoonful 
of ,sa t and serve. 



A VERY GOOD AND USEFUL WHITE SAUCE. 

Soyer. 

Put a quart of white sauce in a stew-pan of a proper 
size on a tire, stir continually until reduced to one-third ; 
put two yolks of eggs in a basin, stir them well up ; add 
your sauce gradually, kee}) stirring, put back in stew- 
pan, set it to boil for a few minutes longer, then add oao 
pint of boiling milk, which will bring it to its proper 
thickness — that is when it adheres trans})arentl3' to the 
hack of a spoon. Pass through a tamn>y into a basin, 
stir now and then till cold. If not immediately required, 
and 1 have any stock left, I use half of it with half of 
'uilk. I also try this way, which is ver}'^ convenient. 
When the yolks are m and well boiled, I put m a large 
gallipot, and when cold cover with pieces of paper, and it 
will keep good in winter for two or three weeks, and 
above a week in summer, and wdieu I want to use a little 



78 



The Canadian Economist. 



of it 1 only take a spoonful or two and warm it on the 
fire, and add enough milk or white broth to bring it to a 
proper thickness and use. 

governor's sauce. 

Mrs. Rowlands, Kingston. 

Slice one peck of green tomatoes, six green peppers, six 
large onions, strew half a cup of salt through them, and 
let it stand over night ; then strain off the pulp, and put 
it in a kettle with vinegar enough to cover it, add a cup 
of grated horse-radish, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of cloves, one of allspice, and one of cinnamon ; sim- 
mer till soft. 

CHILLI SAUCE. 

Mrs. Bay, Ottatva. 

Two red peppers and two onions chopped fine, twelve 
ripe tomatoes, skins taken off*, one tablespoonf ul of salt, 
one of sugar, one teaspoon of alls[)ice, cloves, ginger and 
nutmegs,two cups of vinegar. When the tomatoes, peppers 
and onions are thoroughly cooked, add the spices and 
vinegar. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

French Cookery. 

Put into a saucepan four ounces of butter, a spoonful of 
flour, a good pinch of chopped parsley, and one of chives, 
salt, pepper and grated nutmegs, and a glass of cream or 
milk ; set it on the fire, and keep stirring it; let it boil a 
quarter of an hour. This sauce may be served with i)ota- 
toes, turbot, cod and salt fii^h. 

^ MELTED BUTTER. 

French Cookery. 

Put some butter into a saucepan, and let it melt by a 
slow fire ; when it has settled at the bottom of the sauce- 



Pepper Vinegar and Tarragon Vinegar. 79 



1 the 
J to a 



irs, SIX 
n, and 
ad put 
L a cup 
spoon- 
i; sim- 



twelve 
of salt, 
jer and 
pcppei> 

es and 



onfulof 
■ chives, 
ream or 
it boil a 
\\ ]iota- 



jlt hya 
|e sauce- 



pan, and is very thin, strain it ; mix it with a good deal 
of Hue salt, and serve it in a sauce-boat. In Belgium and 
some other countries, this sauce is frequently used with 
all kinds of fish. 

COLD SAUCE FOR FISH. 

French Cookery. 

Wash and chop very fine some parsley, chervil, tarra- 
gon and chives, also the yokes of two hard boiled eggs ; 
pass them all through a sieve, add by degrees four spoons- 
ful of oil or cream, two of vinegar, and two of mustard. 

GAULIC WATER. 

French Cookery. 

Pick a clove of garlic ; mince and crush it ; then put it 
into a little water to give it the fiavour ; strain it through 
a sieve, and make use of it for sauces. Or vinegar may 
be thus flavoured. 

PEPPER VINEGAR. 

Home Messenger. 

Fill a quart bottle or jar with small peppers, either 
green or ripe. Put two tablespoonsful of sugar and till 
with vinegar. Invaluable in seasoning sauces, and good 
to eat with fish or meat. 

PEPPER VINEGAR AND TARRAGON VINEGAR. 

Home Messenger. 

Fill a quart bottle with small peppers either green or 
iipe ; put in two tablespoonsful of sugar, and fill with 
good vinegar. Tarragon vinegar can be made after the 
above recipe, only substituting three ounces of tarragon 
leaves (to be bought of first-class druggists) for the pep-^ 
pers. 



80 



The Canadian Economist. 



MINT VINEGAR. 

Home Messenger. 

Take a glass jar and put loosely into it enough nice 
clean mint leaves to fill it ; then pour over enough go(,(l 
vinegar to fill the bottle full. Cork tight and let it stand 
for three weeks. Then pour off* into another bottle and 
keep to flavour mint sauce, ttc. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Home Messenger. 

Mix — butter the size of an egg, the juice of half a lemon, 
and two or three sprigs of parsley, chopped very fine; 
pepper and salt, all together. Spread this over any broiled 
meat or fish when hot ; then put the dish into the oven 
a few minutes to allow the butter to penetrate the meat. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Home Messenger. 

One teacupful of grated horse-radish, a tablespoonful 
of ground mustard, one taljlespoonful of sugar, four of 
vinegar, and one of olive oil, pepper and salt. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Home Messenger. 

Cut up three hard-boiled eggs in small dice, salt, pep- 
per, minced onions, one teaspoonful parsley and thyme, 
add all these to drawn butter. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Home Messenger. 

Boil an onion in a pot of milk for five minutes, take it 
out and pour the milk over a quarter of a pound of finely 
sifted bread crumbs, add Cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 



Sauces. 



83 



Stir over the fire until it boils and isquite thick. A small 
piece of butter, or a little cream may be added. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Home Messenger. 

Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream and mix 
witli it a quarter of a pint of cream, half a stick of horse- 
radish grated finely, pepper, salt and distilled white vine- 
gar to taste. The sauce shonlrl be as thick as good cream, 
it should be kept cool. Serve in a sauce tureen. 

SAUCES. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cool'cry. 

The skill and knowledge of a cook is shown in nothing 
more assuredly tlian in the way in wliich she manufac- 
tures and chooses sauces. M. Soyer used to say that 
sauces are to cookery what grannnar is to language, and 
the gamut is to nmsic : and another great authority says, 
"that a good sauce ought to call into activity each rami- 
fication of the palatic organs." However this may be, 
sauce ought certainly to serve either as a relish or a finish 
to the meat which it accompanies. It ought, too, to be 
carefully made and attractively sent to table. With re- 
gard to sauces in general, it should be remembered that 
liot saucea should be served very hot, that when sauces 
need to be kept hot ; they should not be kept boiling but 
should be put into a Judn-maric, or failing this, the sauce- 
jian should be put in a vessel containing boiling water ; 
that eggs and acids should not be added to sauce until it 
has cooled for two minutes, and after they have been 
added the sauce should be stirred without ceasing and 
should not be allowed to boil ; that cream should be 
boiled before it is mixed with boiling sauce, and that the 
sauce should be stirred well after it is put in. An enam- 
melled saucepan is the best in which to make sauce. 



82 



The Canadian Economist. 



ROUX. 

Cassell's Dictio7iary of Cookery. 

Roux is simply a mixture of flour and butter, which 
when baked is used for thickening soups and gravies. It 
is frequently spoken of as a brown or white thickening, 
it should be kept in a covered jar, and will remain good 
for months. A teasj)oonful is generally sufficient to 
thicken a pint of gravy. 

BROWN ROUX. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Dissolve half a pound of fresh butter, skim it well, let it 
stand for a minute and pour it away from the impurities 
which will settle to the bottom. Put the clear oily part 
into a saucepan over a slow iire and shake into it about 
seven or eight ounces of fine flour, or as nmch as will 
make a thick paste. Stir constantly and heat the i:)repa- 
ration slowly and equally until it is very thick and of a 
bright brown colour. Put it into a jar and stir a spoonful 
into soup or gravy as it is needed. A teaspoonful will 
thicken half a pint of gravy. Roux may be mixed with 
hot or cold stock. If cold stir it over the fire till it boils ; 
if hot, moisten the roux giadually with the stock, and oil' 
the fire to keep it from lumping. 

PIQUANT SAUCE. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Mince very finely a tablespoonful of cajjers, a table- 
spoonful of shalots, a table spoonful of gherkins. Put them 
into a saucepan with a (quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper 
and three tablespoonsful of vinegar, and let them simmer 
gently for three minutes. Add half a pint of broth or 
stock, a quarter of a teaspoonful Liebig's extract of meat, 
a teaspoonful of the essence of anchovy, and a dessert 



Pennet Sauce. 



88 



spoonful of brown thickening. Boil the sauce until it ia 
thick and smooth, skim carefully and it is ready for use. 
If brown thickening is not at hand mix half an ounce of 
butter with half an ounce of flour and stir these ingredi- 
ents quickly together over a moderate fire until the mix- 
ture is brightly coloured ; moisten with the stock and 
pour over it the gherkins, &c. Time — one quarter of an 
hour. Sufhcient for nearly a pot of sauce. 

FENNEL SAUCE. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Make some good melted butter, in the propoi'tion of a 
quarter of a pound of butter, a dessertspoonful of flour, 
and a wineglassful of water. Blend the butter and 
Hour together, reserving one ounce of the butter to stir in 
after it has been thickened and removed from the fire. 
Chop enough of fennel to fill a tablespoon, and put it with 
the butter when it is on the point of boiling. Do not let 
it boil, but simmer for a minute or two, then remove and 
stir in the remaining butter. Serve in a tureen. Sufficient 
for five or six mackerel. 




CHAPTER VII. 

ROAST BEEF AND YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

SET a piece of beef to roast upon a grating. Three 
quarters of an hour before it is done, mix the pud- 
ding and pour into the pan. Continue to roast the Itcef. 
the dripping meanwliile fallinj/; upon the pudding below, 
and wlien both are done, cut in squares and lay arounil 
the meat vvlien dished. Receipt for pudding, one pint of 
milk, four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two 
cup.sful of Hour, one teaspoonful of salt. 

BEEF-A-LA-MODE. 

Mrs. Browjh, Ottatva. 

Take a piece of the thick part of the rump of beef, 
about four ])ounds, not too fat, take half a pound of fiit 
bac(m and a calf's foot, cut the l)acon into pieces two inclns 
long, and half an inch square, lard the beef through with 
the bacon. Place the beef into the pan, and also the f(M 
divided into two, and a bunch of sweet herbs, twomidiHi- 
sized carrots, four or six onions cut into slices, a teaspuoii- 
ful of salt, half a one of pepi)er, one pint of water, puttlie 
cover on the pan to prevent the steam escaping. Wluii 
done, remove all the fat from the top. Put the beef in a 
dish with the foot on each side, and the carrots and onioib 
round, throw the gravy over, take away the herbs. Thkl 
as you may perceive, is a most exquisite dish, and it l^ 
good cold. 



To make Minced Collops. 



85 



MINCED MEAT. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottaiva. 

The remains of any kind of cooked meat will be found 
very good, cut in tliin slices longways, as many pieces as 
you can, laying them altogether, and cut in as small pieces 
cross-ways as you wish, then put into a wooden bowl and 
mince fine. Cut off any hard pieces of skin, and put them 
on to boil for two or three hours, with a quart or more of 
water, and boil it down to one-half pint. Put in one or 
two onions, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half of pepper, 
one teaspoonful of Hour. This for one pound of meat. 
Then put all in the frying-pan, adding the half-pint of 
strained stock. Let it remain until it has simmered ten 
minutes, take up and serve with a slice of toast cut in dice 
ami put round the dish. 

TO rOT A LEG OF BEEF. 

M'Kenzies Beceipfs. 

Boil a leg of beef till the meat will come off the bone 
easily ; then mix it with a cow-heel previously cut into 
tliin ])ieces, and season the whole with salt and spice. 
Add a little of the liquor in which the leg of beef was 
boiled, put into a colander or some other vessel that will 
lot the liquor lun off. Place a very heavy weight over 
it, and it will be ready for use in a day or two. It may 
he kept in souse made of bran, boiled in water with the 
addition of a little vineoar. 

TO MAKE MINCED COLLOPS. 

Mrs. Brovgh, Ottaiua. 

Procure a nice thick steak of the round of beef ; cut 
out the bone and all the skin and any outside hard pieces. 
Put those on the fire for stock, with one or tw'o onions 
and boil for two or three hours down to one-half pint of 



86 



The Canadian Economic. 



water. Cut the steak in small pieces, then put in a wooden 
bowl, and mince fine ; then put into the saucepan with no 
water ; put on the fire and beat them with a pounder, 
until you see they are set, which will be in about seven 
or ten minutes, then strain the stock, and put to the col- 
lops with one teaspoonful of sugar, one of salt, one-half 
of pe})per, one teaspoonful of Hour. This (piantity to one 
pound of meat, simmer for an hour, and serve with a slice 
of toast cut in dice and put round the dish. 

FILLET OF BEEF WITH SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Mr8. Campbell, Toronto. 

One and a half pounds of fillet of beef, one pound of po- 
tatoes, yolks of two eggs, cne tablespoonful of cold water, 
one of cream, one ounce of butter, one half tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, half a teaspoonful of peppei*, half a teaspoonful 
of salt. The fillet must first be cut into slices nearly an 
inch in thickness. Place them then upon a slightly greased 
gridiron, and broil over a clear fire for eight minutes, turn- 
ing them constantl3^ Take then a small thin saucepan ; 
put into it the yolk of an g^^ ; pour over thym the cold 
water, and whisk until well mixed, add the cream, lemon 
juice and butter, season with a very little of the pepper 
and salt, and place the saucepan either in a larger sauce- 
pan of boiling water, or over a very slow fire, and whisk 
the contents until the butter melts, and it rises to a froth. 
The slices of beef must now be arranged on a dish, in 
a circle, the end of one piece being made to lop over the 
other until the circle is complete. Pour over the sauce, 
Garnish the whole with a sprinkle of chopped parsley. 
Around the dish place a row of potato balls, prepared in 
this manner — one pound of potatoes, cut them with a 
French vegetable cutter, as many balls as the potatoes 
will furnish. Dry the balls well in a towel, throw them 
into hot lard for four minutes, when fired, drain them for | 
a moment and place them on a dish, 



Beef Cutlets. 87 

£0 MAKE BEEF TENDER. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Cut your steaks, the day before using, into slices about 
two inches thick ; rub over them a small quantity of car- 
bonate of soda, wash off next morning. Cut into suitable 
tliii'kness. The same process will answer for fowl, legs of 
mutton, &c. 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Get tender steak, put it on the rack in your drij)ping- 
pan. Put some small pieces of the fat in your ])an, let 
your steak lie on the rack, until a skin comes over it, then 
turn over and do likewise. Take bread crumbs, butter, 
pepper, and salt, the same as for a fowl, spread them upon 
the upper part of the steak, put into the oven and bake 
well. 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

Mrs. James Dalgleish. 

Stuffed beefsteak is as nice for dinner as a much more 
expensive roast, and it can be prepared from a rather poor 
flank or round- steak. Pound well, season with pepper and 
salt, then spread with a nice dressing. Roll out and tie 
closely with twine. Put in a kettle a quart of boiling 
water. Boil slowly one hour, take out and place in drip- 
l)ing pan, adding water in which it was boiled, basting 
until a nice brown, and making gravy of the drippings. 
It is delicious, sliced cold. 

BEEF CUTLETS. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

To vary the mutton chop by an almost equally digesti- 
Ible morsel of meat is a great point. There is, however, 



88 



The Canadian Economist 



fiomc Httlo prejudice in Enf^'land (and in Canada too), and 
no little i<]fnorance on the subject of beef cutlets, or fillet 
steaks. They are voted tasteless, and many people .suj). 
pose thoy can only be had from the undeitut of the .sir- 
loin. Butchers, however, will not cut cutlets properly, 
and the best way is to buy the whole undercut of the 
rump, and to divide it into cutlets at home. A portion 
of this fillet of beef can be reserved for a roast, and is 
always improved by being hijuddy salted and peppered, and 
hung in a cool place for a <lay. In warm weather the 
meat should be carefully rubbed over with vine^^ar before 
it is sprinkled with salt and pepper. For cutlets trim 
away every particle of skin and fat, leaving only the de- 
licate round fillet, which divide into slices half an incli 
thick. Slightly pepper and salt the cutlets, and set them 
aside on a plate for two hours or more, then broil tluiii 
slowly, turning often for five or six minutes. The}- can 
either be .served plainly or with a piece of butter, fine 
and fi'esh, the size of a filbert mixed with chopped par- 
sley, pepper, and salt, laid on each cutlet the moment be- 
fore serving. 

BEEF CUTLET SAUTE. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Prepare the cutlets as for boiling, have ready the fiv- 
ing-pan, which should be of the smallest size and perfectly 
clean, a small piece of dissolved buttei', put in the cutlet, 
let it cook as gently as possible for half a minute, then 
turn it on the other side for the same time, and so continue j 
turning till the cutlet is done. If parsley is liked, \\]m^ 
the cutlet is last turned, sprinkle a little, nicely-chopped, 
on the upper side, put the cutlet to a very hot plate, pair j 
over it any gravy which may be in the pan and serve veiy 
hot. A slice taken from the undercut of the sirloin n)ayj 
be cooked in this way. The great art of serving this little 
dish to perfection, lies in slow cooking and frequent tuin- 



Curried Beef. 



80 



TRIPK. 

Cookei^y for Invalids. 

Ttipo is exceed ill j^ly wi^ll suited to delicnte digestions. 

Tliere is some little difHculty in making it savoury witii- 
niit the use of onions, but where these are not ohjeeted to, 
it will he found a eliangi^ from fish and other light diet. 
When tripe comes in from the sliop, it should be eoUvsidered 
only half cooked, and from two to three hours is not too 
long to simmer it. To stew tripe white, put one-half of a 
jiouiid in a stewpan with a quarter of a ])int of water, a 
saltspoonfvd of salt, a pinch of peppej;, and two minced 
onions. Let it simmer gently for two hours or witil per- 
fectly tender. Then strain the gravy, take off every . ticlo 
of fat, boil it up, and thicken it with a small desst oon- 
lul of flour mixed smooth in two or three tablespooiisful 
of cream or milk. Put the tripe back into tliis sauce, and 
let it simmer very gently for a (juarter of an hour. Lemon 
juit'o or a few drops of vinegar are good additions to triite. 

BEEF BROSE. 

Casscirs JJidionary of Cool-ery. 

Take the liquor from the boiling of a large joint of 
liei'f After the meat has been removed, make it come to 
the l)oil and stir into it some oatmeal, which lias been 
piH'viously browned in an oven. Send it to table quite 
hot, but not too thick. A little of the liquor made to boil 
up will remedy this. 

CURRIED BEEF. 

CasseWs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Cut an onion and half a baking apple, peeled and cored, 
into very small pieces, and fry them in a saucepan for tw'o 
or three minutes. Add a pound of cold roast or boiled 
heef cut into thin slices, fry the meat and pour over it half 
a pint of water, in which has been stirj'ed a teaspoonful 



90 



The Canadian Economist. 



of curry powder, and simmer for ten minutes. Serve with 
boiled rice in a separate dish. 

hunter's beef. 

Get a nice round of beef, weighing about twenty-five 
pounds, and hang it for two or three days, according to 
the weather. When hung long enough, put it into a salt- 
ing pan, reduce the following ingredients to powder, and 
rub it into the meat every morning for eighteen or twenty 
days, turning it at every rubbing, three ounces of salt- 
petre, three ounces of coarse sugar, one ounce of cloves, 
one nutmeg, hal^an ounce of allspice, one pound of s'^U, 
and half a pound of bay-salt. When salt enough, cleanse 
it from the brine, put a bandage round the whole extent 
of the meat to keep it in shape, ai, 1 lay it in a pan with 
half a pint of water at the bottom, and shred suet on 
the top of the beef. Cover all with a paste composed of 
flour and water and bake it for about six hours. Do not 
remove the paste until the heat has quite gone off. The 
bandage round the beef should be clean, and not quite 
new. The gravy left at the bottom of the pan should be 
preserved. It will be found excellent for made dishes of 
any kind. The beef may be glazed and garnished with 
savourj'^ ]^\\Y. 

LARDED BEEF. 

The Dinner Year- Booh. 

Make perpendicular incisions in your cold roast, having 
trimmed the top snioothly and thrust in lardoons of fat salt 
pork, set closely together. Take the fat from the cold 
grayVv ^"d add to the latter a little minced onion, or table- 
spoonful of catsup, and a large cup of boiling water. Lay 
the meat in a dripping-pan, pour the gravy upon it, invert 
another pan over it, and cook it in a nioderate oven about 
an hour. Turn the meat once, and baste six times with 
the gravy. Dish the meat ; strain the gravy, thicken it 
with browned flour, boil up, and pour into a boat. 



Beef Pasty. 



91 



SOUSED BEEF. 

Take cither Imttock, chuck, or brisket of beef, and sea- 
son with s.alt and pepper for four days ; then roll it up as 
even us you can, tie a cloth fast about it, and boil it in 
salt and water till it is tender, then souse it in water and 
vineL'ai" and a little salt. Put it in a hook frame to form it 
round and upi'ight, then dry it in some smoky place^ or 
in the air. Wlien you wish to use it, cut it out in slices 
and serve it with sugar and mustard. 

BEEF SMOKED, HAM15U11G. 

Take a rump of beef, put it into a pan, with juniper 
lierries, thyme, l)asil, clove of garlic, bay leaf, cloves and 
onions cut in slices. Cover your pan very carefully so as 
to exclude all air; turn your meat every two or three 
(lays; at the end of a fortnight take it out, and after hav- 
ing washed it in seveial waters, drain it for four and 
twenty hours ; then wraj) it in a clean cloth, put it into 
a saucepan, and let it stew for seven or eight hours ; take 
it out and let it drain. Serve cold the same as ham. 



RIIJ OF BEEF. 

Book of the Household. • 

Keep two or three ribs of beef till perfectly tender, take 
out the bones and skewer the meat as round as possible. 
Some cook eggs and stuff them with beef stuffing. At first 
have a gentle fire and then make it stronger. It will take 
four or five hours. 

BEEF PASTY. 



Booh of the Household. 

Take a small rump or sirloin of beef, bone it and beat 

it v\'ell with a rolling pin, to five pounds of beef, take two 

i ounces of sugar, rub it well into the meat, and let it lie 

for twenty -four hours ; then wipe it clean, and season it 



92 



The Canadian Economist. 



highly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; put it in your 
pasty, and lay over it one pound of butter ; close it up 
and bake it. Put the bones into a pan with just as mucli 
water as will cover them, and bake them to make gravy, 
and when the pasty is drawn, put in some of this gravy, 

FILLET OF BEEF ROASTED AND LARDED. 

Booh of the Household. 

Take of the superfluous fat and tie the fillet ready for 
cooking ; lard it at each extremity, leaving the middle 
without lard. Let it soak for some days in oil seasoned 
wuth onions, parsley, lemon juice and pepper. Truss it 
in the form of an S or a round, and roast it till it retains 
a good colour. Dish it with any sauce you may think 
best. 

REEF LOAF. 

The Home Cook Book. 

Three and a-half pounds of beef, minced very fine anJ 
uncooked ; four large crackers, crushed very fine, ouecird 
one cupful of milk, butter size of an egg, one tables] )oontul 
of salt, one of pep])er, mix in shape of a loaf, and liakein 
a slow oven two hours and a-half, basting often ; to b«j 
eaten cold. Very nice for tea and lunch. 

TO STEW A ROUND OF BEEF. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Geoiyefoivn. 

Boil the beef until it is rather more than half done.j 
Gash it with a sharp knife, then lub it over with saltl 
and i>epper and sweet herbs^ chopped fine, also one onii^iij 
cut small, dredge it with flour, strew bits of butter ovirl 
and put it into a dinner pot with a pint or more of m 
water in which it was boi'ed ; cover it clof^ely, and lit itj 
bake or stew slowly for two hours; add a little hotwatfl 
when it may be necessary to keep it from burning. Ti 



Best Way to Cook a Sirloin Steak. 



03 



in your 
)se it up 
as iimcli 
:e gravy, 
is <j!;vaYv, 



ready for 
le iiiiddle 
. seasoned 
Truss it 
it retains 
nay think 



y fine and 
le, one eg?, , 
i)los])()ontiil 
d 1 take in I 
ten ; to k\ 



11. 

I half (lone.! 

{y Avitli salt! 

one oniottj 

imtlerovetl 

liore of tliel 

andloti< 

hut water] 

linii-. Tiir 



it once, when it is nicely browned, take it up, add a little 
boiling" ^vater to the gravy. Stir it well together, let it 
boil up once, and then pour it over the meat. 

BEST WAY TO COOK A SIRLOIN STEAK. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Piocui-e a sirloin steak, about an inch thick. Place it 

on a ni at board, and trim it well by cutting off all the 

skin from round the edge of tin) steak, and any fat that 

may be on it, leaving in the bone. Beat it well with a 

beefsteak hammer. Have the frying-pan heating, and 

when (piite hot, put in a piece of butter the size of a 

hickory nut, and tip the pan round and round, so tliat the 

butter will go all over the surface of the pan. Put in tlu^ 

steak, and keep turning it every seeond, constantly, witli 

a |)aneake slice (two .;f thein is better than one) for live 

iiiiimtes. While th's operation is going on, have your 

assit'tte warming, have it very hot indeed, and have your 

meat eover very hot also, heat it over steam, and when 

the steak is ready, [)ut on the assiette a tablespoonful 

of uuishroom catsup, and put the steak on it, take a ])iece 

of butter about the size of a walnut, and with the point 

of a knife kee[) })ressing in the half of this butter, in nips 

all ovt'i- the surface of the steak. But you must pi'ess it 

ill with the point of a knife remember, and sprinkle pep- 

pci' Mud salt over to suit the taste. Turn over the steak 

and do the same to the other side with the other half of 

the butter, put a sprinkle of pepper and salt on it too. To 

mak(! the gravy, when the steak is put on the dish, put a 

tablespoonful or so of boiling water in the frying pan, tilt 

it roinid once or twice and pour it on the assiette, on the 

side of the <lish (not on the steak) and let it run down. 

This is very imi)ortant. If more gravy is recpiii'ed, take 

the trimmings and a little bit of the end of the steak, and 

put on in a saucepan an hour or so before using the steak, 

and you will have nice gravy. Of course the steak can hq 



04 



The Canadian Economist. 



broiled on a gridiron, but this mode of cooking it is pre- 
ferred. 

TO COOK BEEFSTEAK. 

Mrs. Smith, Bristol. 

Place the spider on a hot fire; when it is (juite hot; 
put on the steak, which should be an inch thick, have as 
few pieces as possible. Keep turning it to prevent burn- 
ing. If the pan is hot enough, it ought to be turned 
every fifteen seconds. In tliree minutes place it on a 
platter previously warmed, and sprinkle salt and pepper 
to suit, also one ounce of butter, to each pound of ^;teak. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Mrs. St'itt, OttauHi. 

Ingredients — twelve to fourteen pounds rouml beef, oiio- 
half pound of coarse brown sugar, one ounce saltpetre, 
quarter pound pounded allspice, one pound coarse salt. 
Kub the sugar well into tlie beef, let it lie one day, then 
rub in the salt. Turn daily for a fortnight. Put it into 
warm water and boil very gently from three and a-half 
to four hours, according to weight. To be served cold. 

SPICED ROUND OF BEEF. 

Mrs. {Senator) Vidal, Sdrnia. 

Let the round drain for a day, then one-half pound 
coarse brown sugar, and rub for three days all over, after 
which rub well every day, for three weeks, with the follow- 
ing mixture : three-quarter pound of common salt, four 
ounces of black pepper, two ounces of saltpetre, one and a-luilf 
of allspice, one and a-half of cloves. All pounded very tine, 
and mix well together. When ready to bake place in a 
pan with two bits of nice fat over it. Make a crust of any 
kind of meal or Hour. Cover the round and pan, so as U) 
keep in the steam, and bake from four to five hours, ac- 
cordinfj to size of round. 



To Pot Beef. 



95 



SCARLET BEEF. 

Mrs. Hugh Young, Sand Point. 

Mix a little mace, cloves, allspice, black pepper, and salt- 
])i'tie. Rill) it well into two })ounds of tender lean beef ; 
et it lie six days, tuniini;' it daily and rubbing it with 
the pickle. Then roll and tie it tinnly with tape, put it 
and the pickle into a small jar, with a slice of beef suet 
under and over it, tie it closely, and bake it an hour. It 
is eaten cold, cut in thin slices and garnishe<l with parsley. 
If kept long, the colour fades. 

SCARLET REEF. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Take a piece of a breast of very fat beef ; blanch it 
twenty-four hours in cold water ; then drain the water 
iiway from it, and dry it well with a cloth, rub it well 
with brown sugar, salt, and saltpetre, turn it evcy day 
for a fv>rtnight, and then ])oil it, it eats very well hot with 
greens, and when sliced down, makes a veiy pretty cold 
asset. 

TO POT BEEF. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Take some slices of a rump or a hock-bone of beef; strew 
a little saltpetre on it; let it lie two days; then put it * 
in the ])otting-can with a good deal of butter and suet ; 
tie it close up with paper and put in a fpiick oven ; let it 
bake two or three hours ; then taki it out and pour all 
the fat and grav}'' clean from it ; when it is coM pull it all 
into threads and beat very fitie in a moi-tar : season it with 
salt and mixed spices. Whatever weight of beef you have, 
take the same weight of sweet butter, oil and skim it, 
pom- it on the meat and keep back the grounds. You 
trust work the butter and meat well together ; then press 
it into small white pots, and oil some more butter, pour it 



96 



The Canadian Eccnomist 



on the top, and tie them close up with paper. You may 
send it in the pots to the table. 

TO RED A RUMP OF BEEF. 

Old Cookery Book. 

For one rump, take two ounces of saltpetre, a quarter 
pound brown sugar, half-pound of bay salt, one ounce of 
Jamaica pepper, two drops of cloves, a nutmeg or two, 
beat and mix them altoixether, and rub it into the beef 
as well as you can ; then rub it over with common salt, 
bed and cover it with the same. Let it lie three weeks, 
turning it every other day, and then hang it u[). 

TO COLLAR BEEF. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Take the nine-holes of beef; bone it; rub it well with 
salt and saltpetre ; let it lie three or four days, or more, 
according to the thickness of the beef; take it up and 
dry it well with a cloth ; then season it very well with 
mixed s])ices and sweet herbs ; roll it up very hard and 
roll a cloth about it ; tie tlie cloth very tight at both ends; 
bind tlie whole collar very firm with broad tape ; ])ut it 
into a pot of boiling water; be sure to kt^e}) it nlwavs 
covered with water. If it is very thick, it will take nearly 
four hours boilin<jf. When it is boiled, hanuf it up bv one 
of the ends of the cloth to drop the water from it, when 
it is cohl loose it out of the bindinirs. You may make a 
collar of pork the very same way ; it takes always a little 
more boilin<j: than beef. 

BEEF LTVER f'OR GRAVY. - 

Wariws Every-d(.i,y Cookery. 

The liver must be first hung up to drain. After that 
salt it well and leave it twenty-tour hours in a dish. Thou j 
hang it up to drain, and when it has ceased dripping, hand 



Beef Olives. 



97 



nav 



Lavter 
ico oi 
' two, 
» beei 
1 salt, 
weeks, 



ill witl\ 
,r luoiv. 
1 lip autl 
iU Nvitli 
avil and 
tU ends; 
; put it 
always 
e uoavly 
-> by OIK' 
it,Vlu"U 

make a 
s a littk 



,ttei- tlial : 
ih. Thou' 



it in a dry place for use. It is excellent for gravy to cut- 
lets and all made dishes. 

TO ROAST A FRESH TONGUE. 

Warne's Every -day Cookery . 

The tongue; twenty-four cloves, a quarter pound of but- 
ter ; about six ounces of bread-crumbs ; two eggs. Soak 
the 'ongiie till it has thoroughly disgorged, in lukewarm 
water, for about ten or twelve hours. Trim and scrape 
it, stick it over with the cloves, and boil it slowly for 
two, or, if large, three hours. Then take it up, and brush 
it over with the yolks of the eggs, sprinkle it with bread- 
crumbs. Run a long iron skewer through it, and roast 
it of a nice brown, basting it constantly with butter. Put 
it on a hot dish, and pour round it half a pint of good 
gravy. Serve it with red currant jelly. 

TO DRESS A bullock's HEART. 

Warnes Evevy-day Cookery. 

One heart ; veal stuffing ; half a pint of rich gravy. 
Soak a bullock's heart for three hours in warm water ; re- 
move the lopes and stuff the inside with veal forcemeat ; 
sew it securely in ; fasten some white paper over the heart 
and roast it tw^o hours before a strong fire, keeping it 
basted frequently. Just before serving, remove the paper, 
baste and froth it up, and serve with a rich gravy poured 
round it, and currant jelly, separately. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Warne's Every -day Cookery. 

A pound and half of rump steak ; three yolks ot eggs, 
la little beaten mace, pej^por, and salt, t(3acupral of bread- 
ltnunl)s, two ounces of marrow or suet, a spi'ig of parsley, 
Itlie rind of half a lemon ; one pint of brown gravy ; a tea- 
Bpoonful of ketchup; one of browning; a teaspoonful of 



98 



TJie Cau'idlaii Economist. 



lemon pickle, a piece of butter rolled in flour ; eight force- 
iDcat balls, (^ut the steak into slices of about half an 
inch thick, and six or seven inches lon_i^, rub them over 
with the yolk of a beaten eg<^, and strew thickly over them 
some bread-crum1)s, the marrow or suet chopped fine, then 
the ])jirsley minced, the grated I'ind of half a lemon, a little 
beaten mace and some pepper and salt, all mixed well to- 
gether. Roll each olive round, fasten it with a small 
skewer, and brown them lightly In^t'ore the fire in a Dutch 
oven. Then put them into a stewpan with the gravy, 
ketchup, browning, and lemon pickle, thicken with apiece 
of butter rolled in Hour, and serve the olives in the gravy. 
Garnish with forcemeat balls. 

TO PREPARE A ROUND OF REEF FOR RAKING. 

Let it lie one night in common salt and saltpetre ; and 
rub it very well ; then take a very small quantity of all- 
spice, nutmeg, mace, and black pepper, ground very tine; 
rub one half on the beef at first, and the remainder, a little 
every day for nine days, when it will be fit foi' bakini:. 
The (piantity of spice de[)ends on the piece of beef, on tlif 
size of it. Lijuht brown sumir must be mixed with tlif 
saltpetre and spice. The beef must be larded with some 
suet previous to baking it. 

REEFSTEAK DUMPLING. 

Choose a juicy piece of beef without much fat and cut 
it into neat slices, about half an inch thick, sprinkle some 
salt and pej)per over them, place a small lump of Imtter 
on each, roll them up tight and fiour them a little. Line 
a basin with plain suet pastes fill it with the rolls of beet, 
add a few mushrooms and a little catsup. Cover up tlie 
meat with the paste, tie up the basin in a floured cloth, 
and boil it three hours. 



TO PRESERVE MEAT IN SUMMER. 

('Oating meat with dry wheaten flour will retain It 

• • • I 

sweet for a three-fold lengthened period, even in tropical 



Beef. 



99 



climates, the flour acting as an i.solater against air and 
iiKjisture. Decomposition will not occur at the tempera- 
ture of freezing. This proves the great advantage of ice- 
chests for the pi'cservation of food. 

BKEF. 

CdsseU's } lout ('hold Guide. 

Inordinary weather a round of beef, weigliing seven or 
eight pounds, will be sufliciently salted for domestic use 
ill tive or six days ; but meat absorbs salt in hot weather 
imich (piicker than in cold. During the former, it must 
he protected from flies, whose maggots are not afraid of 
hrine, by throwing net or muslin over it, or kee2)ing it 
under a wire-work cover, or in a meat safe. Rub the 
meat all over with half an ounce of saltpetre, to give it 
colour. Let it remain so for two or three hours. Then 
you may |)ile over the meat half a pound or so of good 
hrown sugar. This is not essential, but is a great improve- 
ment ; those who taste the beef will find the flavour good, 
without guessing the reason why. Then cover it com- 
pletely with conmion salt, piled over it, till every part of 
it is hidden. To be sparing of this useful article is very 
poor economy ; it is hardly prudent to spoil Ave shillings 
worth of meat, for the sake of two pennyworth of salt. 
Turn the beef in the salting-pan every day, and ladle it 
with the brine which comes away from it. Before boiling 
it, rinse it rapidly in cold spring water. You may stuff 
it in one or two places with chopped parsley, thrust into 
lioles nmde through it with a knife. Lean joints of V)eef 
should always have a portion of fat salted with them to 
bu hoiled and served at the same time. Set salt beef on 
the fire with the water cold, and remove the scum as fast 
as it rises. When it boils, throw in turnips, carrots, 
unions, and parsnips ; if approved afterwards, allow it 
only to bubble up without ever coming to a gallop. Beef 
that has long been salted in brine, before it can be cooked, 



100 



The Canadian Economist. 



must have some of the salt drawn out by steeping in fresh 
water. 

MEAT (JLAZK IN A HURRY. 

(For tlic ahove or other meats to be served cold.) 

Caswell H Ifoitf<ehold Guide. 

(Jut a quarter of a pound of beef or veal into very tliin 
slices ; fry them in butter over a gentle fire ; tai<e the 
fryingpau off the hre, add a wineglassfid of water, pepptr, 
and salt. Set tlie pan on the fire again ; .scrape the inside 
with a spoon ; let it boil up and thicken ; pass it throii^'h 
a strainer into a cup, and it is lit for apphcation to the 
meat to be glazed. 



'^^^i 




CHAPTER VIII. 
TO BOIL A HAM. 

WaviKt's Eccry-day Coolery. 

A BLADE of mace ; a few cloves, a spiif,^ of thyine, 
and two bay leaves. Well soak the liani in a large 
(luaiitity of water for twenty-four hoiii-s, then trim and 
sfiaite it very clean, put it into a large stewpan with more 
tluiii suHieient water to cover it. Put in a Made of mace, 
a few cloves, a sprig of thyme and two bay-leaves. Boil 
it for four or five hours, according to the weight ; and 
when done, let it become cold in the li(jUor in wliich it was 
liniled. Then remove the rind carefully without injuring 
the fat, press a cloth over it to al)sorb as much of the grease 
as possiWe, and shake some brea<l ras]>ings over the fat, 
or brush it thickly over with glaze. Serve it cold, gar- 
nislu'd with parsley, or aspic jelly in the dish. Ornament 
the knuckle with a paper frill and vegetable flowers. 

OH TO SERVE HOT. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

Before placing your ham in soak, run a small sharp 
knitr into it close to the bone, and if when withdrawn, it 
has a pleasant smell, the ham is good. Lay it in cold 
water to soak for twenty-four hours, if it has hung long, 
clianging the water twice ; but twelve hours is the usual 
time for a Yorkshire ham. Before boilinfj, wash i^ chor- 
ougnly, and trim it neatly, removing any rusty parts. 
I Cover it well with water, bring it gradually to a boil, tak- 



102 



The Canadian Economist. 



ing care that it continues to do so (but not too fast), and 
as the scum rises skim tlie pot carefully. When it is done. 
draw off the skin, and sift bread-raspings over the ham. 
Place a frill of paper ""'^und the knuckle and serve. 

1 STKAM BACON. 

Warnes Every -day Cookery. 

It is a mistake to boil bacon, it should be steamed. 
No waste then takes place as to quantity, and thetiavour 
is quite preserved, while the bacon is much more tender, 
as it cannot well be spoiled by too much boiling, or rsitluT 
too quick boiling. Scrape the outer rind or skin wdl, 
wash the bac^on, ])ut it in a steamer over a pot of boilinj,' 
water and steam it for as long as re(|uii-ed, by the weight. 
Serve it with veal or fowls or by itself with gi'cens. 



TO 



LARDING BACON. 



Warnes Every -day CooJcery. 

Bacon to be used for larding should be very fiiiii 
and fat, and should not be cured v^'ith salt|)etre, the etioct 
of which is to redden white meats. Hub the pieces of 
bacon you wish to keep for larding with tine salt, Jay them 
well salted, one on the other, put a weight on them 
and leave them for six weeks in pickle, then have them 
smoked (juite dry. Directions for larding are given in this 
work, but only practice can enable the cook to lard nicely. 

TO STEAM A HAM. 

Warne's Evevy-day Cookery. 

If the ham has been hung for some time, put int(^ coM 
water, and let it soak all night, or let it lie on a damp stoiu' 
sprinkled with water for two days to mellow. Wash it 
well, put it into a steamer — there are proper ones made 
for the purpose — over a pot of boiling water. Steam it 



To Broil ,^i(Jf Port 



103 



loilhijj; 



firm 
ert'oc't 
ices of 
tlioiu 
Ihoiii 
tliem 

111 tliis 
nicely. 



'asli it 
Is made 
Iteam i^ 



for as long timo as the weight re(iiiiros, the projiortion f)f 
tjinr if'ivtin al)Ove. Tins is by far the host way of cooUintj^ 
0, ham. It prevents waste ami retains the Havour. When 
it is (lone, skin it and strew hread-raspings over it as usunl. 
If you preserve the skin as whole as possible, and cover 
the ham when cold with it, it will prevent its becoming 

dry. 

TO nOIL RACON. 

Wariies E eery-day Cookery. 

Tf very salt, s(mk it in soft water two honi-s boffore cook- 
in;4. Put it into a sauce})an with ])lenty of water, and let 
it boil gently. If a fine piece of the gammon oi bacon, it 
limy, when done, have the skin as in hams, stripped off', 
and have finely powdered bread-ras[)ings strewed over it. 

PORK TENDER-LOINS. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

Are either fried or broileil. In eitluu' cast; they re([iiire 
to 1)1' very thorou'dilv done, and served without niavv, 
simply adding a tablespoonful of vinegar to the dripping 
fium the gridiron in the pan, 

TO FRY SALT PORK. 

Warnc's E eery-day Cookery. 

Salt pork is greatly improved by soaking it in milk 
two or three hours, then rolling it in Indian meal butore 
frying. 

TO BROIL SALT TORK. 



Warne's Every -day Cookery. 

Soak some thin slices of salt pork in milk for two or three 
hours, lay on the fine double gridiron, and turn quickly, 
so as not to scorch. This makes a delicious supper-dish. 



104 



The Camadian Economist 



if cooked and eaten promptly. It should not be taken 
off the coals till the family are seated at the table. Serve 
on a very hot dish. 

TO BAKE SALT PORK. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

Let it soak over nigho in skimmed milk, then bake like 
fresh pork. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

One quart of beans soaked over night in tepid water, 
in which has been dissolved one teaspoonful of soda. 
Early in the morning pour this water oft*, add two (piarts 
of boiling water and half a teaspoonful of soda, boil tlic 
bcians two hours, until the skin crack. Then drain, put 
into a bean-pot, or large tin or earthen dish, in the centre 
of which is a pound of salt pork scored in small squares. 
Let the beans come up to the level of the rind of the 
pork, pour over this one quart of boiling water, in which 
two tablespoonsful of molasses have been stirred. Cover 
and bake slowly from two to four hours. If necessary, 
you may add a teacup more of boiling water. 

CHESHIRE PORK-PIE. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Cut two or three pounds of lean fresh pork into stiips 
as long and as wide as your middle iSnger. Line a but- 
tered dish with putf-paste ; put in a layer of pork searoned 
with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, or mace ; next a layei- of 
juicy apples, sliced and covered with about an ounce ot 
white sugar ; then more pork, and so on, until you are 
ready for the paste cover, when pour in half a pint of 
sweet cider, and stick bits of butter all over the top. 
Cover with a thick lid of puff-paste, cut a slit in the top, 



Sausage. 



105 



brush over with beaten egg and ba^ce an hour and a half. 
Tliis is an English dish, and is famous in the region from 
which it takes its name. It is much liked by those who 
have tried it, and is considered by some equal to our 
mince-pie. Yorkshire pork -pie is made in the same way, 
witli tl>j omission of Jie apples, sugar, and nutmeg, and 
tlie addition of sage to the seasoning. 

SAUSAGE. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Six pounds of lean fresli pork, three pounds of fat fresh 
pork, twelve teaspoonsful of powdered sage, six of black 
pepper, six of salt, two of powdered mace, two of powdered 
cloves, one grated nutmeg. (Jriud the meat, fat and lean, 
in a sausage mill, or chop it very fine. The mill is better, 
and the grinding does not occupy one-tenth of the time 
that chopping does, to say nothing of the labour ; one can 
lie bought for three or four dollars, and will well repay 
the })urchaser. Mix the seasoning in with your hamls, 
taste to be sure all is right, and pack dc^wn in stone jai*s, 
pouring melted lard on the top. Another way of preserv- 
iiK' thorn is to make lontj narrov/ baijs of muslin, lar^re 
t'liouiih to contain each enough sausage for a family dish. 
Fill tluun v/ith the meat, dip in melted lard, and hang 
from the bear.Ts of the cellar. If you wish to pack in the 
intesLines of the j)ig, the}' should Ix; carefully prepared 
as follows : Empty them, cut them in lengths, and lay for 
two (lays in salt and water. Turn them inside out, and 
lay in soak one day longer. Scrape them, rinse well in 
sod}) iuid water, wi[)e and blow into one end, having tied 
up the otlier with a bit of twine. If they are whole and 
ckar, ^tuff with the meat ; tie up and hang in the store- 
room or cellar. Thc^se aie fried in their cases in a clean 
thy fiying-pan, until brown. If you have the sausage 
meat in bulk, make into small round flat cakes and fry 
iu the same way. Some dip in egg and pounded cracker- 



lOG 



Tlie Canadian Economist. 



crumbs, others roll in flour before cooking. Their own 
fa,t will cook them. Send to table dry and hot, but do 
not let them fry hard. When one side is dons, turn the 
other. The fire should be very brisk. Ten minutes or 
twelve at the outside, is long enough to cook them. 



LARD. 

Common Sense in tJie Household. 

Every housekeeper knows how unfit for really nice 
cooking is the pressed lard sold in stores as the best and 
cheapest. " It is close and tough, melts slowly, and is 
sometimes diversified by fil)rous lumps." And when laid 
has been " tried out " by the usual process, it is often 
mixed with so much water as to remind us unpleasantly 
that it is bought b> weight. The best way of preparinij 
the " leaf lard," as it is called, is to skin it carefully, wash 
and let it drain ; then put it, cut into bits, into a lartj^e 
clean tin kettle or bucket, and set this in a pot of boiling 
water. Stir from time to time until it has melted ; throw 
in a very little salt, to make the sediment settle ; anil 
when it is hot — (it should not boil fast at any time, bnt 
simmer gently until clear). Strain through a coarse cloth 
into jars. Do not squeeze the cloth so long as the clear 
fat will run through, and when you press the refuse into 
a difi'erent vessel to be used for commoner purposes than 
the other. 

TO PICKLE PORK. 

Hams, shoulders, chines and " middlings " are the parts 
of the hog which are usually pickled. This is done ;b 
soon as may l)e .^fter the meat is fairly cold, especially in 
moderate weatlier. When you can jiackdown pork twenty- 
four hours after butchering, it is best to doso unless the cold 
be severe enough to preserve it longer. Four pounds of 
salt, one pound of brown sugar, one ounce saltpetre in 
three gallons of water. Put into a large saucepan ami 



A Roast of Porh. 



107 



boil for half an hour, skimming off the scnm. WHien cold, 
pour over the meat and let it lie for a few days. This is 
intended to corn a small quantity of meat for family use, 

FKIED HAM. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

If raw, soak as for broiling. Cook in a hot frying-pan 
turning often till it is done. Serve with or without the 
gravy as you please. 

PLANS FOR MAKING THE MOST OF A PIG. 

Make some of the commonest parts of the pig into sau- 
sages, chopping the lean by itself very tine, and the fat 
not so fine, season highly with salt and pep]ier as you 
pioceed, and sage and savory. Have cheap factory cot- 
ton bags made, as thick as your arm, pack in the chopped 
meat very tight, tie close and hang where tlicy will freew. 
To use, rip up the bag as far as you nee<l. slice and fry. 
If these are made before Christmas, they will keep all 
winter. 

Rinds and sausage tiimmings boil to a jelly. Season 
with pepper, salt, and sage. Cut them in small pieces. 
They will keep to use slowly. Warm in a spider, with 
a little of its own liquid and a tablespoonful of vinegar 
enough for breakfast. 

The bones are kept for soups, such as peas, beans, rice, 
kc. Don't pot the whole head. Pickle the cheeks They 
are very choice parts. Make a cheese of the rest, along 
with the feet, ankles, tail, ears, &C. 

A ROAST OF PORK. 

A small piece of pork, the kidneys and lieart stuffed 
witli potatoes and onions or bread. Put the ])ork in the 
optre of the dish. The kidneys at each side, the heart 
and tongue at the ends. 



108 



llie Canadian Economist. 



LEG OF FRESH PORK ROASTED. 

Home Messencjer Booh. 

Score in crossed lines a leg of pork ; run the knife 
around the bone until it is loosened, take out the hone 
and fill the place with a rich stufHng made of stale bread, 
seasoned with butter, salt, pepper, and onion. Takg a few 
stitches to prevent the stuffing from coming out. Put it 
on the spit and baste it with fresh butter (it is more deli- 
cate than lard). Fresh pork r(T(uires longer cooking tlian 
any other meat. Serve with hot a[)})le sauce and fresli 
potatoes cut in quarteis and fried. It will take from 
three to four hours to cook, according to size. 

PORK SPARK RIBS. 

Home Afessenger Bool: 

Are best M^ell broiled over a slow fire, and served witl) 
hot apple sauce. 

SUCKING PIG. 

Home Messenger Booh. 

Sucking pig is merely jilain roasted, stuffed with veal 
stuffing, but before putting it to roast, it requires to Ic 
rubbed very dry and floured, otherwise the skin would 
not eat crisp ; the usual method of serving it is to cut otl' 
the head, and divide the body and head of tlie pig in halves 
lengthwise ; pour over some sauce made of the bi-ainsaiid 
a little brown sauce, or of white melted butter, nicely 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar; serve apj^le sauce 
separate in a boat, if approved of. 

ROAST PIG. 

Dinner Year Book. 

See that the butcher has done his pait well, in cleaning 
the month-old pig. Rinse out with soda and water, then 



Pork Cutlets. 



109 



witli fair water, wiping the pig dry, inside and out. 
P)Vj>aie a dressing of a cupful of crumbs, half a chopped 
onion, two teaspoonsful of powdered sage, three of melted 
Imtter, a salts})Oonful of salt, and as much pep})er, half a 
uratod nutmeg and the yolks of two beaten eggs. Moisten 
with half a cupful of souo-stock, and stuff* the little fellow 
into his original size and shape. Sew him up, and place 
hill, u a kneeling }H)sture in the dripping pan, skewering 
or tying his legs in the proper position. Dredge with flour, 
Pour a little hot-salted water in the dripping pan. Baste 
with butter and water three times as the pig warms ; af- 
terwards with gravy from the dripping-pan. When he 
he'nns to smoke all over, rub every ten minutes with a 
rag di})ped in melted butter. This will keep tlu; skin 
from cracking. Rojist in a moderate steady oven for two 
hours. Put the innocent still kneeling upon a large hot 
dish ; surround with celery and blanched celery tops. Put 
a wreath of green about his neck, and a sprig of celery 
in his mouth. Skim and strain the gravy ; thicken with 
hrowned Hour ; boil up, aihl the juice of a lemcm, and serve 
in a boat. In carving, cut off' the head first ; then split 
down the back ; take ott'hams and shoulders, and separate 
the ribs. 

POllK CUTLETS. 

Little Dinners. 

Cut them from a loin of small, dairy fed pork. The 
best })lan is to take the meat in one piece from the bones, 
and then divide it into cutlets. Trim away nearly all the 
lat, and let the cutlets be about half an iucn thick. Save 
the kidney for a breakfast dish, but use the under fillet 
as cutlets. Take all the bones and skin, with any bits of 
bacon and ham you may have, fry them brown with two 
sliced onions, and put them on to boil for two hours, in 
only enough water to cover them, the object being to 
cake the gravy strong. Strain it and let it gr j cold, in 
order to remove the fat. This done, put it on to boil down 



110 



The Canadian Economist. 



with isinglass or gelatine, and enough browning to give 
it a good colour. When you have hroiled the cutlets, un- 
til they are nicely done and a little brown, brush tliem 
over with this glaze, arrange nicely on a dish, and put 
round them some tomato sauce, made from tomato com- 
pote, to be had at all Italian warehouses. In order not 
to waste any, put the compote into an earthenware jar 
with a little of the pork glaze, set it in a saucepan of 
water, and so let it get hot. 



FILLET OF rOEK. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Cut a fillet or round, handsomely and evenly, from a 
fine leg of fresh pork. Remove the bone. Make a stuff- 
ing or forcemeat of grated bread-crumbs, butter, a tea- 
spoonful of sweet marjoram, or tarragon leaves, and sage 
leaves enougli to make a small teaspe)onful when minct'tl 
or rubbed fine ; all well mixed and slightly seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Then stufl' it closely into the holr 
fi'om whence the bone was taken. Score the skin of the 
pork to go all round the fillet. These circles should be 
very close together or about half an inch apart. Rul) into 
them lightly a little powdered sage. Roast it well till it 
is thoroughly done throughout, as pork if the least under- 
done is not fit to eat. Place it for the first hour, not very 
close to the fire, that the meat may get well heated all 
through, before the skin begins to harden, so as to pre- 
vent the heat from penetrating sufficiently. Then set as 
near the tire as it can be placed witliout danger of scorch- 
ing. Keep it roasting steadily with a bright, good, regu- 
lar fire for two or three hours, or longer still if it is a laigo 
fillet. It may require four h«nirs. Baste it at the begin- 
ning with sweet oil (which will make it crisp), or with 
lard. 



spare Rih of Porh. 
pig's cheek (a new method). 



Ill 



Soyer. 

Pi-ociirc a pig's cheek, nicely pickled, boil well until it 
is very teniler, tie half a pint of split peas in a cloth, put 
tlieiu into a stewpan of boiling water, boil about hali an 
hour, take them out, pass through a hair sieve, put them 
into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a little pepper 
and salt and four eggs. Stir them over the fire until the 
ei:fgs are pai'tially set, then spread it over th^ v'^^n^ cheek, 
e^r.f with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, place 
in tlie oven ten minutes, brown it with a salamander, and 
serve. 

LOIN OR NECK OF P(HIK (NORMANDY FASHION). 

Soyer. 

Procure a neck or loin, put it in a common earthen dish 
having previously scored the rind, rub over with a little 
oil or butter, place about twenty potatoes, cut in halves or 
in ([uarters, in the dish with the pork, ten onions peeled, 
and twenty apples peeled and (juartered, place in a warm 
oven for an hour and a-half or more, then dress it upon 
the dish with the apples, onions, and potatoes around and 
serve. 

SPARK RIB OF PORK. 

Soyer. 

WIk'U sjjitted, rub some flour over the rind, roast it 
Itefori' a clear tire, not too strong, or cover it with paper ; 
about ten minutes before taking it up, throw some pow- 
dered sage over it, and froth it up with some butter in a 
spoon, and serve with gravy under. Afterwards baste it 
with its own gravy. When done, skim the fat from the 
Si"avy, and dredge in it a little flour to thicken it. Send 
the pork to table with the gravy in a boat ; and a deep 



112 



The Canadian Economist. 



dish of apple sauce, made very thick, flavoured with lemon 
and sweetened well. 

HIND QUARTER OF SUCKING PIG. 

Soyer. 

Cut off the skin, cover with paper, and roast before a 
quick fire about three ([uarters of an hour, ten minutes 
before being ready, remove the paj^er and baste it ; serve 
with gravy under, and mint sauce and salad. 

SALT PORK. 

Soyer. 

Pork is salted in the same manner as described for lieef, 
omitting the sal-prunella, but of course not requiring so 
long a time ; a leg weigliiug seven pounds would be well 
salted in a week, as also would a hand and spring weigh- 
ing about ten pounds, and either would require two hours 
boiling, putting them in a stewpan, with cold water, and 
serving with carrots and greens and pease-pudding. 

ITALIAN PORK. 

Soyer. 

Take a nice leg of fresh pork; rub it well with fine salt 
and let it lie in the salt a week or ten days. Wlien you 
wish to cook it, ])ut the pork in a large pot with jiif^t 
sufiicient water to cover it, and let it simmer four hours, 
skimming it well. Then take it out, and lay it on a large 
dish. Pour the water from the pot into an earthen pan: 
skim it and let it cool while you are skimming the |)ork, 
tlien put into a pot one pint of good vinegar, mixed with 
halt pound of brown sugar, and a pint of the water in 
which the pork has been boiled, and from which has been 
carefully skinnned oft all the fat. Put in the pork with 
the upper side toward the bottom of the pot. Set it again 



Pig's Feet and Ears. 



113 



over the fii'o which must first be increased, and heat the 
inside of the })otlid by standing it upright against tho 
front of the fire. Then cover the pot closely and let the 
pork stew for an hour and a-half longer ; basting it fre- 
quently with the liquid ai-ound it, and keeping the potlid 
as hot as possible, that the meat may be well browned. 
When done, the pork will have s6mewhat the appearance 
of being coated with molasses. Serve up tlie gravy with 
it. What is left of the meat, may be sliced cold for break - 
fa-st and luncheon. 

POUK OLIVES. 

Soyer. 

Cut slices from a fillet or leg of cold fresh pork. Make 
a forcemeat in the usual manner, only substituting for 
sweet herbs, some sage-leaves chopped fine. When the 
slices are covered with the forcemeat, and rolled up and 
tied round, stew them slowly either in cold gravy left of 
tliL' pork or in fresh lard. Drain them well before they 
go to table. Serve them up on a bed of mashed turnips 
or potatoes. 

pig's feet and ears. 

GasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Clean and soak the feet and ears, and boil them in 
water until they are tender. Split the feet in halves, 
draw out the bones, and press them between two dishes 
until they are cold and stiff. Cut the ears into strips half 
an inch wide and set them also aside. When they are to 
be served dissolve two ounces of fresh butter and mix 
smoothly with it a teaspoonful of flour. Slice two good 
sizeil onions and stew them in the mixture until they are 
tender ; put in the ears, ami wdien they are hot stir in with 
theiu a teaspoonful of mixed mustard. Turn the whole 
u})on a hot dish and keep it in a warm place. Dip the 
feet into clarified butter and seasoned bread crumbs, and 

8 



lU 



The Canadian Economist. 



boil over a clear fire. Put them on the dish with the 
ears, &c. and serve as hot as possible. 

pig's fry. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Procure a fresh pig's f"y. Wasli it well and dry it, 
then cut it into slices the third of an inch in thickness. 
Butter a l)akin<j^-dish, cover the bottom witli a layer of 
the lean slices, and sprinkle over them a little powdcii'd 
sage, minced onions, ])epper and salt; place sliced jtota- 
toes on these and then a laver of fat slices with a littlf 
more seasoning, and sliced potatoes over the whole. Fill 
the dish with l)oiling stock or water, mixed smoothly 
with a small portion of flour and bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve very hot. Time to bake — two hours and a half. 
Sufficient for three or four persons. 

CLAZE FOR HAMS. 

InvalliVs Cook. 

Take a small quantity of clear brown soup and let it 
boil very fast till it becomes thick, or if this is not at 
hand take about three or four tablespoon.sf ul of the gravy 
from under dripping and simmer it for three or four hours 
with a little isinglass or gelatine in it till it becomes (juite 
stiff. Aj)ply while hot with a paste brush. In either case 
be careful it does not burn. 

PORK JELLY. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Salt a pig's feet and ears for two or three days, then 
put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover 
them and boil them quickly for several hours till the meat 
leaves the bones. Ihen take them out, throw away the 
"bones and cut the meat into very small pieces as if for a 



Tocififed Raslers of Bacon. 



115 



mince. After this has heen done i)iit it all back again 
into the saucepan with a little pepjuT. This must now be 
Ituiled very slowly till it becomes thick and almost a jelly ; 
then put it into a shape and turn out when cold. A little 
mace, sage and parsley, chopped very fine, may be added 
to riiivourit if liked ; but if so the herbs nmst only be 
added at the last, as if boiled they give a greenish hue to 
the jelly. Calf's ff"'t )r cow heels dressed in the same 
way make a very light and nourishing jelly. 

TOASTED RASHERS OF BACON, 

Cookery Made Easy. 

New bacon, that is freshly-cured bacon, should always be 

procured for toasting, it is nicer and nnieh more nourishing 

than old dry bacon. If you like it fat the ribs or '^ack 

])art is the best ; but if you like it ])retty lean, the cushion 

is by far the best ; the whole of the thick part of the 

cushion will cut into tine rashers ; they should be cut 

about one-si. \th of an inch thick. Before you toast rashers 

of bacon, always cut off' the rind and also the outside (^f 

tlie bottom ; when so done, lay them in a small dish before 

the file for about five minutes, on one side, then turn 

them and do them five minutes on the other side, taking 

care to catch all the gravy which drops from it in the 

dish, and serve it up in the same dish gravy and all ; for 

when the rind and bottom is cut otf before you put it 

down to toast, all the gravy which drops from it is nice, 

and clear, and nourishing. Many families have the bacon 

and gravy served up with bread, merely on account of 

its superior healthiness, to bread and butter or buttered 

toast, for breakfast. To fry bacon in a fryingpan is the 

most wasteful way it can be dressed, and is now considered 

to be both vulvar and discreditable. Cold bacon cut into 

slices a quarter of an inch thick, with a little crust of 

bread grated over them and laid in a cheese-toaster before 

the tire till they are brown on both sides, are very good 



116 



TJie Canadian Economist, 



for breakfast ; about three minutes for each side will he 
enough for them, with a bright tire. 

HAM '10 AST. 

Inval'uVs Cook. 

"When a ham gets unsiglitly for the table, take off as 
much of it as you require, and mince it uj) very finely. 
To one pint of nrince put two tal)lespO()nsful of ereuiii or 
new milk ; l)()il it five minutes, and have well buttered 
toast ready to lay it upon at the end of that time. Then 
strew l)read erund)S, with which a little parsh^y has lutn 
mixed, on the toj) and brown it over with a salanicandei', 
or in the oven. 

PORK JELLY. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Salt n pig's feet and ears for two or three days; then 
put them into a saucepan, with sutKcient water to cover 
them, and boil them quickly for several hours till the 
meat leaves the bone ; then take them out, throw away 
the bones, and cut the meat into very small x)ieces, as if 
for a mince ; after this has been done, put it all back again 
into the saucepan with a little pepper ; this must now 
be boiled very slowly, till it becomes thick, and ahnosta 
jelly; when, put into a shape and turn out when cold; 
a little mace, sage, and parsley, chopped very tine, may be 
added to flavour it, if liked ; but if so the herbs nuist 
only be adiled at the last, as if boiled they give a greenish 
hue to the jell3\ Calf's feet or cow heels, dressed in the 
same way, make a light and very nourishing jelly. 

TO FRY HAM. 

True Guide to Househeeping. 

Cut a ham thiough the middle, then you get the fat 
and lean in good proportions; lay it on your pan or 



Tripe, Fried, 



117 



H s)ii<l('r, and cover it so tliat it may cook tender in tho 
will be ^ stc.'im. When nearly done, let it Hnisli open, that tho 
sttiini may evaporate, and tliat it may brown sliyhtly. 

FllIKI) SALT PORK. 

T)'i(c Guide to Jfou^ekeeping. 

Fried salt pork and n])ples is a favonrite dish in tho 
country, hut it is seldom seen in th(; city. After tlie pork 
is lVie(l, some of the fat should be taken out lest the 
a|>])les should be oily; acid apples shoid<l be chosen be- 
cause tiiey cook more easily ; tliey should be cut in slices 
ucress the wiiole apple about two or three times as thick 
as a new dolhir. Fried till tender, and brown on both 
sides, laid around the pork. If you have cold potatoes, 
slice and brown them in tho same way. 

TO UROIL HAM. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

Ham should be sliced thin and done over a quick tire ; 
sometimes ham is too saltv, in which case von should 
soak in jilenty of hot water before boilinf^. When this 
is done, care nmst be taken to dry the ham well from the 
water. 

TRIPE FRIED. 

Little Dinners. 

Stew a pound of tii]ie in well-seasoned stock ; when 
peirectly tender, cut it into neat square pieces ; then fry 
a li<;ht brown in a little butter, and season with pepper 
aii(l salt ; cut a pound of onions in slices, fry a nice brown, 
and then simmer them until very tender in a little of the 
liipior in which the tripe was stewed; when they are 
d()ii(\ put the tripe with them into the stewpan, add a 
taUcspoonful of chopped parsley and one of vinegar; 



118 



21ie Canadian Economist. 



simmer together cor a minute and send to table imme- 
diately. 

WHITE TKIPE. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Put half a pound in a stewpan, with a quarter of a 
pint of water, a sakspoonful of salt, a pinch of pei)per,an(l 
two minced onions ; let it simmer gently for two hours, 
or until perfectly tender ; then strain the gravy, take oft" 
every particle of fat, boil it uj) and thicken it with a 
dessertspoonful of flour mixed smooth in two or three 
tablespoonsful of cream or milk. Put the tripe back ^nto 
this sauce and let it simmer gently for a quarter of an 
hour. To stew tripe brown, put it into beef tea or good 
gravy instead of water, and thicken it with flour mixed 
smooth in gravy. Lemon juice or a fev*'^ droj)s of French 
vinegar are good additions to tripe. 

TRIPE ROASTED. 

Wayne's Domestic Cooltery. 

Some pieces of tripe, some forcemeat, a little flour, some 
butter ; cut the tripe into good sized pieces and spread 
some forcemeat over tliem ; roll them up securely, and 
tie tliem upon a small spit, or roast them upon a cradle 
spit ; flour and baste them with butter, and serve them 
up garnished with icmon in slices and melted butter. 

TRIPE BROILED. 

CasseWs Dictionary of Coolcery. 

Take two pounds of perfectly chsan dressed tripe. If 
there be time, soak it in milk for some hours before boil- 
ing, and if it should happen that the milk turns sour, the 
acidity which the tripe will thus acquire, will improve it 
rather than otherwise. If the tripe cannot be soaked, 
wash it in cold water, then cut it into pieces about three 



Fricasseed Tripe. 



119 



inches loii^ and two broad ; put it into a saucepan, and 
cover with equal parts of cold milk and water ; let it boil, 
then add three moderate size<l onions, a tablespoonf ul of 
salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper-corns ; cover the 
pan closely, and simmer the tripe gently until tender ; 
lift out the onions, mince them finely and press them 
tlnough a coarse siev^e ; mix with them as much melted 
butter, made with milk instead of water, as will make a 
thick sauce, and serve the tripe on a hot dish with the 
same poured over it, or if preferred, the sauce may oe 
served separately in a tureen. Some cooks flavour the 
sauce with mustard and a little vinegar. 

TRIPE FOR INVALIDS. 

CasselVs DicHonary of Cookery. 

Take half a pound of freshly-dressed tripe ; wash it and 
cut into squares and remove almost all the fat ; cut up half 
a pound of lean beef in the same way, and put both into 
a stew pan with half a pint of cold water, half a spoonful 
of mustard, a small lump of sugar and a little salt ; bring 
the licjuor to the boil, skim carefully, then draw the sauce- 
pan to the side and let its contents simmer gently for 
three hours; mix a tf^aspoonful of corn flour to a smooth 
paste with about a tablespoonful of cold water ; stir this 
into the sauce "^nd boil it gently for a few ndnutes ; put 
the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it and serve. 

FRICASSEED TRIPE. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take about two pounds of tripe; cut it into pieces 
abort three inches long and two broad ; wash it in cold 
wat .'r and dry it in a cloth ; put it into a stewpan ; cover 
with equal parts of miik and water ; add two (mions and 
a bunch of parsley, and simmer gently for an hour ; rub 
an ounce of butter smoothly with a little flour ; moisten 



120 



The Canadian Economiist. 



with a quarter of a pint of cream and stir it into the sauce ; 
add the thin rind of half a lemon, a little pepper and salt, 
and the eighth part of a grated nutmeg ; then simmer for 
another hour ; put the tripe into a hot dish ; take the 
sauce from the fire, stir a lump of butter into it, till it is 
dissolved, and pour it over the tripe. In stewing tripe 
be careful that it does not burn. 

TONGUE. 

Economical Cook Booh 

If the tongue is dry, let it soak several hours before 
boiling it slowly; if just out of pickle, the water should 
l)oil when it goes in. A tongue presser soon saves itself 
in making the small end go farther, and causing no waste. 

FRESH ox TONGUE. 

CasseU's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Put the tongue on the fire in cold water, simmer slowly 
till tender, and then remove the skin. Melt two ounces 
of butter in a stewpan ; dust in a tablespoonful of Hour 
and as much grated bread as the butter will take up and 
brown. Mince small a few rashers of bacon, do the same 
with an onion, and add them to the sauce with the juice 
of a lemon and a slice of its jieel. Thin the sauce with a 
little broth or water in which the tongue was boiled. 
Lay in the tongue, sprinkle with salt, cover, and let it 
simmer slowly for an hour. 

TONGUE BOILED. ^ 

CasseWs Dictionat^j of Cookery. 

If the tongue is dried, soak it for twelve bonis; if 
takeci fresh from the pickle, an hour or two will be suffi- 
cient. Put the tongue into cold water and let it come 
slowly to the boil. Remove the scum carefully, and siui- 



ToTKjiiG Bahed. 



121 



mor tlic tongue gently till done enough. Its flavour will 
1)0 iin]»rove(l if two or tliree large caiTot.s and a large 
l)inK'h of savoury herbs be added to the liquor after the 
scum is renioved. When the tongue is (juite tender, so 
that it can be easily probed with a skewer, and so that 
the skin can be easily peeled off, take it up, remove the 
skin, and if it is to be eaten cold, pass a large carving fork 
tlir<)Ui;li the root end, and by means of this fasten it on a 
board. Pass another and smaller fork through the tip, 
and draw the tongue straight before fixing it in the board. 
Let it rL'main untouched until quite cold, trim neatly, 
i,rla/e it, and then wrap a nicely-cut frill of tissue paper 
round the root, which is a little unsightly. Garnish the 
(lisli with ])arsley. If the tongue is to be eaten hot, take 
otl" the skin, wrap it in a sheet of oIIcmI paper and put it in 
the lH)iling li(]Uor for a quai'ter of an hour before serving 
it, to make it (piite hot. Garnish the dish with Brussels- 
s;irouts, cauliflowers, dressed spinach, or any other vege- 
tables, and send touiato or picjuant sauce to table with it. 
A lai'ge smoked tongue, four hours and a half; unsmoked, 
tliree hours and a half. 



TONGUE BAKED. 

CasseU's Dictionary of Cool'cry. 

Take a tongue fresh from the pickle, wash and soak it, 
and put it in a dish just large enough for it. Put little 
|)ioces of butter here and there upon it, cover with a com- 
iiiou crust of flour and water, and bake in a moderate 
oven until it is (piite tender. Remove the furred coating 
or skin, and fasten the tongue down to a piece of board 
I'y sticking one or two strong skewers through the root, 
and oi.o through the tip, so as to hold the tongue in an 
erect and elegant form until it is quite cold. If to be 
eaten cold, glaze it, trim the root, put a paper frilling 
round the root to hide its unsightliness, and^serve gar- 
nished with parsley. If to be eaten hot, serve the tongue 



122 



The Canadian Economist. 



on a hot disl), with Brussels-sprouts, cauliflower, or other 
vegetables round it. Time to bake, three or four hours, 



according to size. 

CARVING OF TONGUE. 

CasaeU's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Begin to take slices, not too thin, from the middle of 
the tongue, and afterwards cut slices from each side, being 
careful not to cut quite through the tongue. The extreme 
tip is usually left and used for grating. A little of the 
fat should be put upon each plate. When the tongue is 
rolled it should be cut in very thin slices horizontally. 

ROLLED TONGUE. 

CasseU's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take a Targe ox-tongue. If dry, soak it in plenty of 
cold water before dressing it ; if fresh from the pickle, 
soak it for two or throe hours only. Put it into a large 
stewpan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury 
herbs ; bring it slowly to the boil, remove the scum as it 
rises, and simmer gently until tender. Take off the skin, 
which will come oft* easily if the tongue is sufficiently 
dressed ; trim the roots, remove the bones, and press the 
tongue fat inwards, into a round tin just large enough to 
hold it. Put a dish with a weight upon it, and let it re- 
main until cold. Turn it out, glaze it. or tie a napkin 
neatly round it and garnish with tufts of parsley. A 
smoked tongue, four liours and a half ; unsmoked, three 
hours and a half. 

THE VALUE OF VINEGAR IN ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

The value of vinegar in economical cookery may l)« 
tested by the use of the following receipt : — Take some 
meat fro«i the coarsest joints of the ox, such as the leg, 
shin, or sticking piece, cut it in slices of two or three 



Scrapple. 



123 



ouncps each, dip each piece in good vinegar, and then pack 
tlie whole in a stewpan with onions, turnips, or other 
vegetables, cut small, without water; cover it closely, and 
let it stand by the side of the fire six or eight hours ; it 
will then be found to be thoroughly done, and to have 
yielded abundance of gravy, being at the same time re- 
markably tender. The only precaution necessary is that 
the heat should never be suffered to approach the boiling 
point. Or tlie meat, vegetables, and flavoiu*ing materials, 
may be placed in an earthenware Jar which can be closely 
tied down, and then placed in a large saucepan of water, 
or very slow oven. This mode of cooking is apjdicable to 
any kind of meat, and will be found exceedingly econo- 
mical, giving little trouble and furnishing a very nutriti- 
ous, digestible, and delicious food. The acid of the vine- 
gar is entirely dissipated during the process. 

SOUSE. 

Economical Cooh Book. 

Boil the feet of a pig till the bones come out easily, and 
pick out all the bones ; pack them in a pan with pepper 
ami salt and cover it with vinegar or not as you choose. 
Fry in lard for dinner. 

SCIJAPPLE. 

Economical Cooh Book. 

Take a pig's haslet and as much offal, lean and fat pork 
as you wish to make scrapple ; boli them well together in a 
small quantity of water until the}'^ are tender ; chop them 
tine after taking them out of the liquor, season as sausage ; 
then skim off the fat that has arisen when the meat was 
lioiled, to make all soft ; throw away tlie rest of the water 
I and put this altogether in the pot ; thickening it with half 
I buckwheat and half Indian meal ; let it boil up and pour 
out in pans to cool. Slice and fry it in sausage fat, after 
[the sausage is done. 



124 



The Canadian ^conoin>M. 



HEAD CHEESE. 

Economical Cook Booh. 

Boil in salted Wcatcr the ears, skin and feet of pii^s, till 
the meat drops off, chop like sansa^'o; season with pepper, 
salt, cloves and herl)s ; mix all toi^^'ther, put it underpres- 
sure to cool. Cut in slices for the table cold. 

SOUSE. 

Miss Beechey. 

Cleanse pig's ears and feet, and soak them a week in salt 
and Walter, ciiangino- the water every other <lay. Boil 
eii^ht or ten hours till tender. When cold put on salt and 
liot spiced vinegar. Fry them in lard. 

COLD MEAT TURNOVERS. 

Miss Beechcr. 

Rollout wheat dough very thin and put in it, liken 
turnover, cidd meat chopped fint^ and seasoned with jx'piier, 
.salt, catsup, and sweet herbs. Make small ones aiidfiv 
them in lard till the dough is well cooked. 

COOKING COI.D HAM. 

Miss Beech er. 

Cut up all the bits and ends, 2)ut them in a fiyiii^' "i' 
saucepan, with very little water and some butter ; wlitii 
warmed through break in some eggs and stir them iipM'itli 
the ham until the egg is hardened, 



CHAPTER IX. 
TO ROAST A FILLET OF VEAL. 



Boiu Bells. 

A(:OOD forcemeat for veal inay l>e inadti in the follow- 
ing manner: — Four ounces of cruiaLsof bread, mixed 
\vith a ({uartcr of an ounce of lemon-rind, minced small ; 
some })ar,sl(.'y, a little thyme, nutmeg, salt and pepper, sutii- 
cieiit to season properly. Add to these two ounces of hutter, 
ami the unhcaten volk of one egg. Work the whole well 
t()i,f(.'tlu'r. Take the Ixme out of the joint of veal, and })ut 
(a(iu;uitity of the forcemeat under the Hap, secure it well, 
truss the veal tinuly into good shape, place it at a distance 
fn)m tlie lire at first, and baste with butter. Pour melted 
liiitter over it after it is dished, and serve with a boiled 
cliet'k of bacon and a lemon. 

VEAL. 

True Guide to HoHse-kceping. 

Tile shoulder of veal is the most *.'Conomical for roast' 
inj,' or boiling. It is always cheap, let veal be what ju'ice 
it m:\y. Two diiniers may be made from it, the shoulder 
roastcil, and the knuckle cut oti to be ]>oiled with a bit of 
pork and greens, or to be made into soup. The breast of 
voal is a favourite |)ieee, and is sold higher. The whitest 
veal is the most juicy and tl^n-efore preferable. The hind 
•luarter of veal and the loin make two good roasting 
pieces. The leg is usually stuHfed. The loin has the kid- 
ney upon it, the fore-quarter the brisket on it. This is a 



12G 



The Canadian Economist. 



sweet and delicate morsel ; for this reason some people 
prefer the fore-quarter to any other part. A fillet of veal 
IS the thick part of the leg, and is to be cut smooth, round 
and close to the bone. Some prefer the outside piece. A 
little fat cut from the skirt is to be served to each plate. 

FRIED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Mrs. II. F. Branson, Ottawa. 

Take half-a-pint of milk and a well-beaten egg and 
flour enough to make a batter. Fry the veal, brown in 
some sweet lard, then dip it in the butter and fry again 
till brown. Flit in a little butter to fry after tlic veal 
is taken up and put on top of the veal. Then put a 
little flour-paste into the gravy, adding salt and pepper, 
and after one boil pour it over the whole. The veal should 
be cut quite thin and should cook nearly an hour in tlii' 
whole. 

VEAL STUFFING. 

Mrs. BroiKjh, Ottaica. 

Chop half a ])Ound of suet, put it into a basin with 
three-quarters of a |)ound of bread-crumbs, a teaspoonfiil 
of salt, one of pepper, a little thyme or lemon-peel chopia'd, 
three whole eggs, mix well and use. 

MINCED VEAL. 

Afrs. BroKgh, Ottawa. 

Any remains of roast veal may l^e quickly dressed to good 
advantage as follows : — By the aid of the fryingpan. Cut 
all Uie meat and fat oft* the joint into small dice. Cut 
three ounces of fat to every pound of lean. When cut, 
put a pound of it on a dish, add to it a teaspoonfulof salt, 
half a one of pepper, two spoonsful of flour and a chop) ed 
onion. Put in the pan half-a-pint of water to boil, two 
teaspoonsful of colouring, then put the meat in, stir it 



Veal Cutlets for the Aged. 



127 



Let it simmer gently for twenty minutes and serve on 
toast. Poached eggs on it are very good, or put the 
miner into a tin pan, bread-crumb over, drop a little but- 
ter or (hipping over, then put it in the oven, and the mince 
may i)e made white by using milk instead of water. 

FILLET OF VEAL. 

Mrs. Bromjh, Ottawa. 

A small fillet of veal boned and stuffed, tie it up tight, 
and put some fat into a fryiugi>an, put in the fillet and 
frv K^'utly until one side is brown, then put on the 
otlier side until V)rown, and fry in the same |)an some 
onions, turnips and carrots. Cut in pieces, put the 
Hllet into a y)an with a piece of fat bacon, at the bot- 
tom till up round with the vegetables, put another piece 
ofhacon on the top, add some seasoning to the vegetables 
and a pint of water. Put it on a slow tire, giving a quar- 
ter-ot-au-lu)ur for each pound weight. When served take 
out the tillet, put the gravy into a small basin and skim 
otf the fat, pour the gravy over the veal and serve the 
vegetables. A little browning is an improvement. 

VEAL CUTLETS FOR THE AOED- 

Mrs. Brough, Ottawa. 

Cut one pound of veal in eight pieces. Season with a 
teaspoonful of salt, a grain of pepper, and a little chopped 
parsley, then take each piece separately, and with the 
i>ack of a knife, beat them well, till nearly in a pulp. 
Give them the shape of cutlets with a knife, e^g and 
liread crumb, beat them nice and smooth, put two ounces 
of lard in the fryingpan, when very hot, fry a nice colour. 
Sorve plain. These niay be done as a general dish by 
adding a little fried bacon and chopped onions in the fry- 
ingpan. They are extremely tender and full of gravy. y 



128 



TliG Canadian Economist, 



BROWN RAGOUT OF VEAL. 

Mrs. Browjli, Ottawa. 

Take ten pounds of the breast, cut into ratliersmall pieces. 
Roll them well in Hour. Put some drippint,' in the fryiiinr. 
pan. Fry the meat until a nice brown. Take tliis out and 
fry four onions, two turnips, and one carrot, cut in dice. 
When brown take them out, put the veal and vegetaltKs 
into the pan, seas(m witli t;vo teaspoonst'ul of salt and 
one of pepper, add a pint of water to which ha.s littii 
added four teasi)Oonsful of brownings, a few herljs juul a 
little ham or bacon. A small teaspoonful of sugar i.s an 
improvement. Put it into the oven for an hour. 

MARBLED VEAL. 

Mrs. McKenzic, Almonte. 

Having boiled and skinned two fine tongues, cut tliom 
to pieces and pound them in a mortar, uiO'stenin^' them 
with plenty of butter as you pn)ceed. Have ready an 
ecjual quantity of veal stewed and cut into very .small 
pieces ; pound the veal also in a mortar, adding butter by 
degrees. The tongue of veal may be kc[)t sepai-ate till 
both have been pounded. Then fill your ])otting-pan> 
with lumps of veal and tongue, ))ress down hard, aiul so 
placed that when cut the mixture will look variegated or 
marbled. Close the cans with veal. Again press it down 
very hard ; finish by pouring on clarified butter. Covn 
the cans closely and keep them in a dry place. 

MINCED VEAL. 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte. 

Take some cold veal, cut it into slices, and mince it 
very fine with a chopping knife, season to your taste witli 
pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg. Put the 
bones and trimmings into a saucepan with a little water,: 



Stveethreada Broiled. 



120 



simtnor them over hot coals to extract the gravy from 
them. Then put the veal into a stewpan, strain the 
jrravy over it, add a piece of butter rolled in tU)ur, and a 
littlt' iidlk or cream. Let it sinuner to<^ether till thor- 
oiiLi'lily warmed, but do not allow it to boil, lest the meat 
liaviiiL,^ been boilu(l already, should become tasteless. 
Wlieii you serve it up, have ready souie three cornered 
pit'i-es of brea<l f'-Mted and buttered ; place them all 
iiiound the insidr dish. 



VEAL CUTLKT3. 

Common Sen>^G in the Household. 

Di[) in beaten e«,'ij;s when you have sprinkled pepper 
and s;dt over theui ; then roll in cracker crumbs and fry 
ill hot drippiuL;' or lard. If you use butter or dri[)[)ing 
add a little boilini,^ water to the grav^y when the meat is 
dished; thicken with brovvned Hour, boil up once, sending 
to talile in a boat. 

SWEETiUli:ADS (fhIED). 

Co'mmoii Sense in the Household. 

Wash very carefully, and diy with a linen cloth. Lard 
with narrow strips of fat salt pork, set closely together. 
Use for this purpose a larding needle. Lay the sweet- 
l>ivads ill a clean, hot fryiiii^rpan, which has been well 
hiittcred or greased, and cook to a tine brown, turning 
fmpieiitly until the pork is crisp. 

SWEETimEADS (RROILED). 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Parl>oil ; rub them well with butter, and lu'oil on a clean 
Sridiion. Turn frerpiently, and now and then roll over 
in a plate containimr some hot melted butter. This will 
prevent them getting too dry and hard. 
9 



130 The Canadian Economist. 

SWKKTBUKADS (koASTED). 

Common Senile in the Household. 

Parlioil, aiul throw into coM water, where let them 
stand for fifteen minutes. Tlien elianj^e to nioic cold 
water for five minutes longer. \Vi[)e perfective dry. Lav 
them in your drippiuL^-pan and loast, bastin*,' with Imtttr 
and water until they l>e<,nn to brown. Then witlidraw 
them for an instant, roll in beaten e;^<,^s, then in crai koi- 
crund)s and return to the fire for ten minut(^s longer, hast- 
ing meanwhile with melted butter, twice. Lay in a cliaf- 
fing dish while 3'ou add to the dripping half a cup of hot 
water, some chopped parsley, a teaspoonfid of biowncd 
tiourand the juice of half a lemon. Pour over the swett- 
breads before sending to table. 

jkllip:d veal. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Wash a knuckle of veal, and (!ut it into three jdccrs, 
Boil it slowly until the meat will slip easily from the 
bones ; take out of the liquor. Kemove all the bones and 
chop the meat fine. Season with salt, pepper and slmlnts, 
chop[ied fine as possible, mace and thyme, or, if you likt-, 
sage. Put back into the liquor and ])oil until it is almost 
dry and can be stirred with difficulty. Turn into a mould 
until next day. Set on the table cold, garnish with 
parsley, and cut in slices. The juice of a lemon, stinvl 
just before it is taken from the tire, is an inn)roveiiiciit. 

MINCED VEAL AND MACARONL 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Three-quarter pound of minced cold roast veal, a ([uartei- 
pound of ham, a tablespoonful of gravy, pepper and snlt, 
a quarter teaspoontul of grated nutmeg, a quarter poiiiul 
of bread-crumbs, a quarter pound of macaroni, one or 



Baked Calfn Feet. 



131 



two c^'">', a Hinall piece of Imtier — mix the minced veal 
with tlie above propoiticm of Imm, season with pepper 
and salt, add the niitmen^ and oread-crumbs, and Uiix 
tliese inj^n-edients with one or two e^'j^s, well b(»aten, 
wliicli shoidd bind the mixture, and make it lil<e force- 
liu-at. Boil the macaroni in salt and water, drain it, 
Itutter a mould, put some of tlie macaroni at the bottom 
mid sides of it, in whatever form is liked. Mix the rest 
witli tlie forcemeat, till the moidd up to tlie top, put a 
plate or small dish on it, and steam for half-an-hour. 
Turn it out and serve with good gravy. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Mrs. TIio.^. McKay. 

Select some fine, white, sweetbreads, put them in a 
bowl, and pour boiling water over them ; let them stand 
for ten minutes, take them out, dry them, and spread Hat 
upon a platter and send to the cellai' till wanted. When 
that time ariiv^es, take one or more. Prepare the frying- 
pan liy putting it on the fire till hot, then put into it 
a small bit of butter, about the size of a wahmt, let it 
gi't (juite hot, and then put in the sweetbread, and let it 
fry till brown. Have two saucers, one with a beaten-up 
e^'<,j in it, another with flour or bread-crund)s, sufficient to 
loll the sweetbreads in, which do, first in the Hour and 
then in the egg saucer. Put in the })an again and fry 
till done. 

BAKED calf's FEET. 

Inval'uVs Cook 

After having well cleaned two calf's feet, put them in 
an earthen jar with three pints of milk and water (the 
milk should be new), a few strips of lemon-peel, and a 
blade of mace or small stick of cinnamon, cover the jar 
down closely, and bake the feet for four hours in a 
moderate oven. Take off the fat when cold, an<l warm 
When 'wanted. 



132 



The Canadian Economist. 



VEAL ROLLS. 

InvalicVs Cook. 

Cut some thin slices from a fillet of veal. On each of 
these slices lay a thin slice of fat bacon and a layer of 
forcemeat. Roll these slices up tight into pieces alioiit 
two inches long and two fijigers thick, keeping the force- 
meat well in the middle, and then fasten each roll widi a 
skev/er — a very small one. ]3ip each roll into the yolk 
of an cj^^ff, and sprinkle well with l)read-cruml>s, after 
which fry or bake them till done, a light brown colour, 
and serve with a good gravy and some forcemeat balls. 

FRICANDETTE. 

InvcduVs Cook. 

One pound and a half of veal and fat bacon chopped 
very fine; two eggs, a slice of l)rcad, soaked in cream or 
new milk, a little salt and cayenne pepper. Mix these 
ing"edients well together ; make tliem up into c;ikes, 
three-cjuarter of an inch thick, and fry them a light brown 
in butter or good lard; butter though is best. Forsaiuv 
the juice of a lemon squeezed into some buttei*, with two 
s])oonsful of thick cream. 



Take a T)reast 
and tlien put on 
taste : A few si 
forcemeat, three 
of salt, |)epper, 
herbs. Roll the 
it with string, 
ends, and then 
when cold. 



IWLARDE OF VEAL. 

/»yv</<(/\s Cook. 

of veal, bone it, lay the boned part up 
the followino- in<jredients, acconliiiii' to 
ices of lean ham or tongue, soiiie j,'<k»u 
hard-) >oi led eyii's, slicerj, and a s^asoiiiii:' 
chopped suet, and finely mixed sweet 
veal as tightly lound as you can, and tie 
Put a cloth round it, which tie at Mi 
boil it gently for four hours. (rlazeiii 



Plain Vual Cutlets. 



133 



SEASONED CUTLETS. 

InvalliVs Gooh 

Take a slice of meat from the best on<l of a leg of veal, 
and make it into cutlets. Sprinkle them with salt and 
Nvliitc pepper; arrange them tiat round a small frying 
pan, and pour over them two ounces of good fresh butter, 
whieli has been dissolved in a clean sa'icepan over a gentle 
tire. Now fry them ovei* a bright clear fire for oliout ten 
miimtes, or till they are lightly browned, and ([ulte done. 
Then put them into n hot dish and pour over them a good 
(Tavy tiavoured with lemon-juice and a little cayenne 
jtepper. Garnish with forcemeat balls. 

VEAL MA^SDEN. 

How to Ste^v Meat in a, hiindved different vw/s. 

Butter a pie dish ; completely line it with sliced hard- 
boileil eggs ; fill it with slired veal, ham or tongue, and 
pickles arranged nlternately in layers; pour in as much 
rich i^ravv a.s the dish will liold : bake for twenty min- 
utes ; let the whole stand for a little whil(\ then turn out 
to serve. 

PLAIN VEAL CUTLETS. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Take a slice of meat, about three-ipiarters of an inch 
thick, from the best en<l of a leg of veal. Beat it well 
with a rolling-pin, and then shape and trim the cutlets 
nicely to about the size of the bottom of a wine-glass. 
Flour them well and fry them over a not too fierce fire for 
a!ii»ut a (|uarter of an hour, till they are of a good light 
lirown colour and thoroughl}' done. When done put theni 
oil a hot dish, and kt'ep them hot while you make some 
gravy and put over them, and which is to be inado thus : 
Flr,st, pour away what fat is left in the i)an, and then 
Welt in it a slice of fresh butter. When melted dredge 



134 



The Canadian Economwt. 



into the butter a dessertspoonful of flour, and keep it 
shaken till coloured. Then pour in gently a cup of gravy 
(or boiling water if you have none), a little pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice. Boil it all up well, and pour inunedi- 
ately over the cutlets, which may be garnished with a 
few rashers of bacon or forcemeat balls. 

FILLETS OF VEAL. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Take some cold roast veal and cut it into thin slices; 
make a sauce with some butter rolled in flour, parsley, 
chives, shalots, the whole chopped small and seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Let it thicken over the ftre ; add 
the juice of a lemon. Put in the tillci/.s to warm, without 
boiling and serve. 

VEAL. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Veal six weeks or two months old is the most esteemed, 
if less it has neither taste nor savour ; if older, it is not .so 
delicate. The best season is from May to September. 

GRILLED calf's LIVER. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Cut the liver into thin slices, which put on the gridiron, 
sprinkling them with salt and pepper and turning them 
occasionally. Take them ofi' before they are much done, 
and serve by two slices, the one over the other, buttering 
between each a piece of butter rolled in chopped parsley. 

calf's LIVER. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Cut the liver into slices and put them into a stew-pan 
with mixed parsley and chives, and a piece of butter; 
place it on tlie fire and put in a spoonful of flour ; add al- 






To Fricassee a Breast of Veal. 



135 



so with some broth a spoonful of vinegar, some salt, pep- 
per and spice. Let them stew ten minutes altogether 
and serve. 

ROAST calf's liver, 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Lard the liver, and let it marinade four hours in pars- 
loy, chives, bay-leaves, thyme, salt, and two spoonsful of 
oil <;r cream. Then take it out and cover it with thin 
slices of bacon or a sheet of paper, buttered. Roast it 
about an hour; serve in a sauce-boat the gravy from the 
meat, with cho)^ped shalots, two spoonsful of broth, salt, 
pepper and fine herbs. 

BROILED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Cut and beat them, rub them all ove" with a beaten 
Qg^ ; season them with salt and the grate of a lemon, 
strew some crumbs of bread over them on both sides; pour 
a little oiled sweet butter over them ; lay every cutlet 
in clean white paper, broil themona clear fire, turning them 
often until they are done enough, take oif the paper and 
dish tliem ; for sauce, send up some beat batter, ketchup, 
and the squeeze of a lemon in a sauce-boat. 

TO FRICASEE A BREAST OF VEAL. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Cut down the ribs of the breast, break them into short 
pieces and wash them very clean ; let them lie some time 
in water to blanch. You may put in a little milk or 
Hour to help to whiten the meat ; then put it into a close 
goMet with boiling water ; put in a tied bunch of parsley, 
a blade of mace, and some lemon peel with it ; let the 
meat boil. tender ; beat some yolks of eggs and mix a little 
cieaiii; some salt, the ;•: rape of a nutmeg and the squeeze 



i:.G 



2he Canadian Economist. 



of a lemon with them ; thicken some of the hrotli the 
meat is l)oiled in with a very iittle sweet hiitter, knead in 
Hour and, wlien it hoils, stir it in oradnally amon^the 
vg^H; take the meat quite away from the luoth and ]iit 
it into the saucepan, pour tlie sauce until it tliickeus. Kit 
he sure never to jctanythin^^ come to a boil that eggs aie 
in, else it will curdle the sauce. 

VEAL LIVER PATE. 

CasftcIVs HoiiHchoJd Guide. 

Take as much veal liver as you aie hkely to want, and 
white hacon eijual to two-tliirds of tlie weight of the livtr, 
chop them together and j)ut tliem into a howl, sea.s» n 
with pepper, salt, allspice and parsley chopped small; add 
chopped onion that lias heen hroA ned in the fiying-paii 
in butter, a slice of ham minced small, and three or I'oiii 
egg-yolks, mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a fr^^th and incrr|H»ratc 
them with the rest ; line the sides and bottom of a stew- 
pan 0/ metal mould willi very thin slice's of bacon, then put 
in the minced liver, A:c., cover all with tliin sliced bacon 
and })ut on the lid, set it into a gentle oven and let it cook 
gradually but tlu)ioughly, when done, take it oi't and Itt 
it cool ; wheu cold, turn the pa td out of the stew})an or 
mould on to the dish on which it is to remain, as a stand- 
ing resource, as long as it lasts. 

ROAST VEAL (rE-COOKED). 

Little Dinners. 

Cut the veal in thin slices, and spread over each a little 
of the remaining stufling : pep])er, salt and tiour li^litly. 
Then make a batter with two eggs well beaten, a pindi 
of dried parsley, pe[)per and salt, half.a pint of skiimmd 
milk, four tablespoonsful of Hour ; ])ut an ounce of butter 
into the pan, let it boil, pour in the batter like a thick 



Veal Stceethreads Larded. 



137 



])ancakc, then lay in the middle, one on the other, the 
slices of meat ; fry slowly ten minutes, shaking the pan 
to prevent Imrniiig ; then turn up the edges of the pan- 
cake over the meat and turn it over on the other side ; 
fry another five minutes, and then with a slice put the 
cake on to its dish. Pour over it a little rich gravy, in 
which ai.y peas, French heans, or other nice vegetaMes 
have been waiiued and serve inuuediately. This dish 
luuks very pretty and is delicious. 

FRICASi^FE OF KNUr'KLE OF VEAL. 

Liitlc Dinners. 

Cut the meat remaining on a cold knuckle into thick 
slices and having cleared the hone, set it to boil for two 
hoius in three )>ints of water; it will then give half a 
liiut of good rich gravy ; take the fat of it and add an 
eijual (juantity of milk in which two onions have been 
istewed ; rub these to pulp, use it with floiir to thicken the 
oravv, seas(/n nicely, put in your pieces of veal with any 
of the gelatiii'Mis morsels and let them siuuuer for an hour, 
then serve with toast sippets or fried bread. The bones 
will again bear boiling, and should yield a pot of strong 
jolly. 

VEAL SWEETUREADS STEWED. 

Book of the Household. 

Parboil them, and stew them with white gravy; add 
CTcaiii, tloui-, nutmeg, butter, salt and white pe})per. 

VEAL S\VEETimEAI)S LARDED. 

Book of the Household. 

Puboil two or three sweetbreads, and when they are 
cold laid them do-wn the middle with little bits (»f bacon, 
on each side bits of lemon peel, and beyond that with a 
littV pickled cucuniber, cut very small, ^tev/ them gently 



138 



The Canadian Economist. 



in rich gravy, thicken with a little Hour, add mushroom 
powder, cayenne, salt, and if necessary, a little lemon 
juice. 

VEAL SAUSAGES. 

Book of the Household. 

Take equal ([uantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a 
handful of sage, and a few anchovies ; beat all in a mor- 
tar, and season well with jjcpper and salt. When wanted 
for use, roll and fry it, and serve either with fried sippets. 
or on stewed vegetables, or white collops. 

VEAL STEWED WITH APPLES. 

The Home Cook Book 

Rub a stewpan with butter ; cut the meat in thin slices, 
and put in with pepper, salt, and ajiple, sliced line ; some 
would add a little onion. Cover it tijj^ht and stew till 
tender. 

VEAL PIE WITH SAUSAGE. 

CasselTs Dldionavy of Coohenj. 

Take some cutlets, half an inch thick, from the fillet of 
veal. Season these pepper, salt and powdered mace, and 
fill a dish with alternate layers of the cutlet and Bologna 
sausage thinly sliced. The veal will yiehl sufficient gravy 
to moisten tlie pie. Cover with good pastry, and bake in 
the usual way. This pie 's excellent eaten cold. 

VEAL PLUCK. 

Cassell's Dlcf'ioiuivij oj Cookery. 

Take a calf's heart, with the liver and lights : wash the 
heart in several waters, let it soak for half an hour, <hain 
atid dry it, till it with good veal forcemeat, tie thin slices 
of fat bacon around it, and roast or bake it. Soak tlie 
liver and lights, boil them for an hour, and mince them. 



Veal Pie. 



139 



Put tliis mince into a stew pan with a little pepper and 
salt, the thin rind of half a lemon, half a blade of mace 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Cover with gravy and let 
it .siiinner gently till done enough. Season with pepper 
and salt, arul add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, one of 
catsup, and a little strained lemon juice. Slice the remain- 
der of the liver, and fry in the usual way. Place the 
mince upon a dish, put the heait upon it, and garnish the 
disli with fried liver, fried rashers of bacon, toasted sip- 
pets and parsley. Serve very hot, and send good l)rown 
gravy to table with it. Time one hour and a-half to roast 
the heart, half an hour to sinnner the mince in the gravy. 

VEAL PUDDING (BAKED). 

Casseirs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take half a pouml of cold roast veal, carefully freed 
from skin, fat, and gristle, and finely minced ; mix thor- 
oughly with it a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, 
a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the grated rind of half a 
lemon. Pour half a pint of nicely flavoured boiling gravy, 
(niiulo by stewing the trimmings of the veal in water), 
over two ounces of finely grated bread-crumbs. Let this 
cool, and then stir into it the minced veal, and add three 
well beaten eggs. Whisk the mixture briskly for a min- 
ute or two, turn it into a well buttered dish, and bake in 
a moderate oven. Tf liked, the crumbs may be soaked in 
cream instead of gravy. Time to bake the pudding, one 
hour. 

VEAL PIE. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Cut a breast of veal into pieces, season them with pep- 
per and salt, and lay them in your dish. Boil six or eight 
eggs hard, take the yolks only, and put them into differ- 
ent phices in the pie, then pour in as much water as will 
nearly fill the dish ; put on the lid and bake it well. A 
lamb pie must be done in the same way. 



140 



The Canadian Economist 



SWEETBREAD PIE. 

Domedlc Cookery. 

Lay a puff paste, lialf an indi tliicl:, at tlie bottom of 
a dish, Mn<l put a t'oiveuieat around the outsides. Cut some 
swecthreads in ])ieces, three or four, according to the size 
the pie is intended to be made ; lay them in first, then 
some artichoi\e bottoms, cut into four pieces each, then 
some cock's-cond)s, a few trutHes and sonu' asparagus tops, 
and fresh mushrooms, yolks of eggs boiled hard, and force- 
meat balls; season with pepper and salt. Almost fill the 
pie with water, cover it and ])ake it two hours. When it 
comes from the oven pour in some rich veal gravy, thick- 
ened with a very little cream and flour. 

calf's head. 

Domcf^tic Coolr]')/. 

Procure a calf's hea<l ; let it soak in cold water, witli 
a spoonful of vinegar and a little salt for two houi's. Rt- 
move the brain and tongue, ]>ut the head on with sutfi- 
cient wator to cover it, and a tables] )Oonful of salt; when 
it has boiled ten minutes, pour away the li([Uorand again 
cover the head with water, add two onions with a clove 
stuck in each, a small bundle of parsley with a s])rig of 
thyme tied up with it, a tablespoonful of white vinegar 
and a large tablespoonful of salt. Let all boil gently for 
two hours, 01- until the liead is sufficiently tender to sliii 
off the bones. Having removed them, lay the head on 
its dish, and cover either with rich brown i^ravv or whito 
sauce. After the tongue, Avhich can be boiled ^^ ith the 
head, is skimmed, cut in small pieces and lay it on a 
separate dish ; place round it in little heaps, alternatini; 
with neat rolls of toasted bacon. The braiiis prepaivd a 
follows : Boil the bi'ains very fast in a little li(pior in 
wh.ich the head is cooked ; when quite firm chop thoni np, 
and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, ii 



Scolloj^cd Veal. 



141 



pinch of salt and pepper, a dessertspoonful of chopped 
paisley, and a srpieeze of lenion-juico. Stir over the tire 
until the butter is dissolved, tlien sprinkle in a <lessert- 
spounful of tiour, again stir for five minutes and serve. 

calf's head ("IIKESE. 

Warnr-s Domestic Cooker jj. 

One calf's head, one tahlespoonful of salt, one of pep- 
per, one of sweet herhs. Jioil a calf's head in water 
I'liDii^h to cover it until the meat leaves the bones, then 
lift it out with a slice, take out the bones, and chop the 
moat very small; season it with the salt, pe])i)er and 
sweet herbs chopped very fine. Lay a cloth in a colander, 
put the minced meat and the seasoning (well stirred to- 
iiOtluM-) into it, fold the cloth over it, i)ut a trencher on 
the cloth and on that a good weight. When cold, it can 
le served in thin slices or for sandwiches, seasoning each 
slice with made mustard. 

TO RO\sr A BREAST OF VEAL. 

Warnc's Domestic Cool-cry. 

Take off the tendons f'"om a breast of veal, skewev the 
sweetbread to the joint, and cover it with buttered paper, 
place it to roast for an hour and a (piarter, or according 
to its weight. Serve it with melted butter and gravy 'ind 
slieed lemon. It can be roasted without the sweetbread 
Avhicli as well as the tendons will serve for an entree, 

SCOLLOPED VEAL. 

Chop cold cooked veal fine, put a layer in a baking-dish, 
alternating with a layer of powdered crackers, salt, pep- 
per, and butter until you fill the dish. Beat up two eggs, 
add a pot of nijik, pour it over the veal and crackers, 
cover v/ith a plate and bake half an hour. Remove the 
plate and let the to[) brown. 



142 



The Canadian Economist. 



MINCED VEAL WITH POACHED EGGS. 

Take some remnants of roast or broiled veal, trim off' all 
bi'own parts and mince very finely. Fry a chopped cha- 
lot in ])lenty of butter; when it is a li<^dit straw ci)luiir, 
add a lar<^e pinch of Hour and a little stock, then the 
minced meat with eho})ped parsley, pepper, salt and nut- 
meg, to taste ; mix. well, add more stock if necessaiy, ami 
let the mince irradiiallv uet hot bv^ the side of the fire. 
When quite hot, stir into it, off the fire, the yolk of an egg 
and the juice of a lemon, to be strained and beaten up lo- 
getlier. Serve with sippits of bread fi'ied in butter, rouiul 
it, and three or four j)oached eggs on to[). 

FRIED VEAL PATTIES. 

Mince a little cold veal and ham, allo\vin<^ one-third 
ham and two-thirds veal ; add an egg, boiled hard and 
chopped, and a seasoning of pounded mace, salt, pepper 
an.l lemon-peel ; moisten with a little gravy and cream. 
Make a good puff paste ; roll rather thin and cut it into 
S( pi are or round ])ieces ; put the mince between two of 
them, pinch the edges to keej) in the gravy, and fry a 
light brown. They may be also baked in ])atty-pan.s ; in 
that case they should be brushed over with the y(dk of 
an Qg^^ before they are put in the oven. Fry the patties 
fifteen minutes. 



VEAL AND PORK PIE. 

For a medium sized pie have two pounds an<l a half of 
breast of veal and one pound and a half of salt ])ork, which 
is more delicate in a pie than ham or bacon. (Uit tlie veal 
in^ five or six pieces, and let it stew very slowly for an 
hour with a (juart of water, a head of celery, a small 
onion, thyme, parsley, and a bit of lemon peel. Turn 
out the veal, cut the meat from the bones in pieces of a 
convenient size for the pie, return the bones and pieces 
of gristle to the saucepan, season with pepper and salt, 



Curry Powder. 



143 



ami let tliem and the .ijiavy Htew tlu)rou<j^lily for many 
lioius, until tlio j^'ristle i.s quite soft throughout, as this 
(fiiivy .should be stront^ enou^^h to set into a firm jelly 
vviieu cold. Make your |)ie, arran^'inij^ the veal and pork 
in conveniently small pieces, add a sufticient quantity of 
the :j:ravv, reserving- some of it, and rini.sh and hake the 
i)ic. When it is taken from the oven, ])ut a funnel to the 
liole in the centre of the crust, and carefully pour in j^'ravy 
en()ii,L,di to fill up. A cold meat pie is very poor, if the 
i^niivy he li([ui<l, instead of the well tiavoured firm jelly, 
which .should fill uj) all inter.stices. 

VKAL SWKKTIUJKADS, 

ILnue Mesficuijcr. 

Veal s\veet-l>reads spoil veiy soon. The moment they 
come from the butcher they .should he put in cold water 
to soak for about an hour ; lard them or draw a lai'doou 
of pork through the centre of each one ; put it into salt 
lioiling water, or stock and let boil for fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; throw them into cold water for only a few 
iiioinents, they will now be firm and white ; remove care- 
fully the skinny jiortions and pipes. 

CURRY POWDERS. 

One ounce of oriuger, the same of coriand' ■ r?eed, half an 
ounceof cayennepepperandtwoouncesof finepale turmeric; 
these ingredients to l)e pounded .separately to a fine pow- 
der and then warmed by the fire and mixed together. 
Put the powder into a wide -mouthed bottle, cork it well 
down and put it into a dry place. 

CURRY powdp:r, no. 2. 

One ounce and a half of mustard seed, scorched and 
finely powdered ; four ounces of coriander seed pounded, 
fouv-and-a-half of turmeric, three ounces of black pepper, 
one ounce and a grain of cayenne, one ounce of the lesser 




SMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-S) 




k<0 







.rf" 



"w m^'^ ^ ///// 



1.0 



I.I 



" IM 



m iiiiiM 



= II 



IIIIIM 

|||22 
[2.0 

1.6 



pm 



<»/ 



V. 



/. 



.Jt 








o 



7 



n 





Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, NY. 14580 

(716) 872-4503 





V 



A^ 



^N 







^5^ 





\\ 








<».V^ 



%^ 



^ 



% 



:% ^ ^0 




6^ 



144 



The Canadian Economist. 



cardamoms, half an ounce of ginger and one of cumin 
seed, all finely powdered. The flavour may be varied Ijv 
the addition of all or any of the following ingredients- 
cinnamon, in powder, one ounce ; cloves, half an ounce: 
mace, half an ounce. 

TO MAKE CURRY. 

For two pounds of any kind of meat fry one dessert 
spoonful of the above powder with the same quantity of 
flour in some butter until they are of a light brown 
ci)lour. Pour sufficient boiliuii' water into the frviuii-iKm 
as will make the powder and flour into a stiff* paste, and 
then add one pint of strong beef gravy. Slice six lar<,'(! 
onions, fry them in butter until they are brown. Cuttlir 
meat into small pieces, j)ut it into a stew-pan with alltlif 
above ingredients and the grated rind of a lemon and 
stew until tender, then add two and a-half tablesp()()n?,fiil 
of vinegar, a stpieeze of lemon., and salt to tas^^e, siiiinur 
for five minutes ; it will then be ready to serve. Tli' 
curry f-hould be served with a vegetable-dishful of rict', 
and should be eaten with a spoon. 

CURRY rOWDKR 

Consistsof turmeric, black pepper, coriander seeds, cayenne, 
fenugreek, cardamoms, cumin, ginger, allspice and doves, 
but the three latter are often omitted. The seeds .sliouM 
be ground in a mill and mixed with the powder, and 
when made it should be kept in a bottle closely eorkcd. 
A s|)0()nful of cocoa-nut kernel, dried ;md poumleil ^ivi'S 
a delicious flavour to a curry, as does also acid apple. 

CURRY SAUCE. 

CassdVs Dictionary of Cookery. \ 

To make curry sauce quickly, mix a dessertspoonful 
of curry powder with half a pint of melted butter. Time 
ten minutes. Sufficient for a small dish of currv. 



Essence of Curry. 



145 



TO BOIL RICE FOR CURRT. 

CasseWs Dictionary of Cookery 

Patiia rice is the correct rice to use for curries, but it is 
not of so good a quality as Carolina rice, and, besides, it 
cannot always be obtained. Tlie thing to be attended to 
is to have each grain of rice distinct and unbroken, and, 
at the same time, quite tender. This can be attained. 
(|uite as well with Carolina rice as with Patna rice, but 
the foi-mcr will require boiling longer than the latter. 
Wasli the rice in several waters. Pick out every dis- 
coloured and unhusked grain, and boil it in plenty of 
cold water. This is the secret of having the rice whole ; 
the water will keep the grains separate. Leave the sauce- 
pan uncovered. Bring the water slowly to a boil; shake 
the )»an occasionally tu prevent burning, but do not stir 
the rice at all. When it has simmered gently for twenty 
or twenty-five minutes it will most likely be tender. 
Patna liee will not require so long. Drain it in a colan- 
der, and let it dry gently before the fire. Serve it. round 
the curry. Half a pound of rice is sufficient for a mode- 
rate-sized dish of curry. 

ESSENCE OF CURRY. 

CdsselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Put three ounces of powd* i' to a quart of strong vine- 
^'ar; let it remain for a fortnight and then strain off 
the clear li(|uid and put it into bottles for use. A 
dessertspoonful will fiavour half a pint of sauce. One 
ttf the most essential accompaniments to good curry is 
j,wd rice properly boiled ; the best rice we can get is 
the American rice. It must be boiled in the follow- 
ing manner : — Wash it well in cold water, and dry it 
well in a clean napkin ; boil some water with a little 
salt in it; stew the rice into the boiling water, and when 
it bej^ins to swell check the boiling with a teacupful of 
10 



140 



TJie Canadian Economist. 



cold water,'aii(l continue to do so until the rlc£ is craekid ; 
before it begins to fnll into pap, nnd wliile tlie grains are 
yet separate from each other, throw it into a cc^lander and 
let it dry before the tire. It will then be fit for table. 

INDIA cuiniY. 

Mm B. CInlsfie. 

• One and a-half tablespoonful of minced onion, one and 
a-haif tablespoonful of Imtter, one lar<;(' tablespc.'ont'nl of 
curry powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, one and a-lialf 
pounds of eithe'r beefsteak or nuitton, two cupsful of milk, 
Fry the onions in the; butter until of a pale golden brown, 
then add the curry powder and salt, and let it sinmirr a 
minute, then add the meat cut into small squares, haviii;' 
removed all skin and fat from it. Let this cook for two 
or three minutes, add a eup of milk, and let it simmer with 
the lid off for an hour and a-half, or until it is (|uitc dry, 
stirring it occasionally ; add another cup of milk, let it 
come to a boil, when it is ready for the table. 

CURRIED FOWL. 

Mrs. Dld'ie. 

The remains of cold roast fowl, two onions, oiie apple, 
two ounces of butter, a dessertspoonful of curry powder, 
a teaspoonful of Hour, half a pint of gravy, a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice : slice the onion, peid and chop tlie 
apple, and cut the fowl into neat joints ; frythe.se in but- 
ter till brown, add the curry powder. Hour and gravy nml, 
stew for about twenty minutes; put in the lemon juiic, 
and serve with boiled rice placed round the edge of the 
dish. 

CURRIED DISHES. 

Miss Beecher. 

Chickens and veal are most suitable foi- curries. Boil 
the meat till tender, and separate the joints ; put a little 



Carried Dishes. j^^ 

coier it, an,I let it te v tvlnt, .^l ^ ' ^'"'"'''' "-'•'>' '» 
the enrry thus: For f,,,„ ,.' ; , f '*'•" "'°''«- P''epnre 
spoonful „f cun-v ,° ,w ' • 7" "^ ,'","^'' '""^'^ "■ t^'Wo- 




CHAPTER X. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Howo McMengcr. 

ryyO roast a leg of imittcjii or lamb is a very simple pro- 
_1_ cess, re<[iiiring it sim|»ly to be put in a pan, andthu- 
rouylily basted and seasoned, })aking twelve minntfs for 
every pound of lamb, and fifteen for every pound of 
mutton. 

TO BOIL A LE(i OF MUTTON. 

Pluno-e tlie mutton into boiling water and let it scnKl 
fifteen minutes for every pound; in extremely cold wwi- 
tlier, allow half an lioui- extra boiling. Ser^e with Jnuvn 
butter and nasturtiums, or capers. 

BAKED MUTTON. 

Mrs. Bevvy, Toronto. 

Either a loin, saddle, leg or shouhler may be flaketl. 
Put the meat into a baking pan, with a little butter spreail 
over it ; i)our in enough cold water to cover the bottom 
of tlic pan, and then set it in a (juiek oven. After it lias 
been in the oven about fifteen minutes, baste, and place a 
bit of buttered paper upon the top of the meat. If the 
bottom of the pan is dry add a little more water ; if too 
much fat accunudates in the pan, take the pan out and 
pour the fat oti', adding cold water instead, and set back 
in the oven to finish cooking. Cook until a skewer or a 
small knife can be run into the joint easily, and then dish, 
Serve with its own gravy. 



P" 



mplc pvo- 

1, a n< I till- 

liniiUs for 

pound uf 



let it soiiW 
colt I wea- 



a 



th Jrawn 



be flakeJ. 
ttei- sprea'l 
;lie bottt'iii 
Jter it liii> 
1 place a 



Liu I 1 



ter; i 



If tlie 
f too 



out aiui 
,1 set back 



m 



:e\ve 



r or '^ 



then tlisli. 



J. Stewed Keck of Mutton. 



FRIED MUTTON CHOPS. 



149 



Pn])are the chops as for broiling; <lip them in beaten 
efri,f and roll them in pounded crackers ; fry in hot lard 
or dripping, drain them as they are dished, and serve hot 

ROAST LE(; OF MCTTOX. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

hi order that the leg may be tender and excellent eat- 
inff, do not dress it until it has been killed at least four 
(lavs. F>eat it well to render it still more tender ; loosen 
the ?*kiii, and let it maruidde a day or two in oil, pepper, 
oiiidii and chopped parsley ; put a clove of garlic in the 
kiiucklr. Roast the joint bet"()r(! a brisk fire for about an 
lidiir and a half, and baste with the inariaadc mixed with 
ii.s own fat. 

FILLET OF MUTTON WITH VKOETAHLES. 

French Domestic Cooker)/, 

Bone a breast of mutton and lard it with small pieces 
of bacon; roast, and serve it with a ragout of spinach, 
t'lidive, cauliflowers, peas and potatoes. 

HASHED MUTTON WITH FRIED EGtJS. 

Make a liasli of mutton and garnish it with fried slices 
of l)rea<l and fried eixirs on tomato or some otlier sauce 



oo 



A STEWED NECK OF MUTTON. 

Choose a lean neck of mutton, cut it up into chops, re- 
move the fat and skin from them, and trim them neatly. 
Put a tablespooiiful of sago at the bottom c^f a large 
eaithoinvare jar, which has a cover to it; on the sago 
lUTaiiHc a layer of chops, ami upon the chops sliced car- 
rots^ tuinips, onions and celery, and any green vegetable' 
which may be in season, such as lettuce, peas, kc. Com- 
iiiit'na' again with another tables[)Oonful of sago, then a 



150 



The Canadian Economist. 



layer of meat, and anotlier of vegetables, and so on, until 
the materials are all in the jar. Season well with popper 
and salt, pour in one })int of sprin^,^ water, cover the jar 
closely, and stew gently in the oven for three hours. 

BOILED MUTTON. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Wash a leg of mutton clean and wipe dry. Do not 
leave the knuckle and shank too long as to he unshapely. 
Put it into a pot with hot water (salted) enough to cover 
it, and hoil until you ascei'tain by proving with a fork, 
that it is tendei' in the thickest part. Skim ofi" alFtlic 
scum as it rises. Allow about twelve minutes to eadi 
pound Take from the fire, drain peifectly dry, and .serve 
with molted buttei", with capers, or nasturtium seed ; or. 
if you have neither of these some cucumber or gherkin 
pickle stirred into it. If you wish to use the broth fm 
soup put in very little salt while boiling; if not, salt 
well, anel boil the meat in a cloth. 

LAMB. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Lamb shoulel never be boiled except in stews. It i< 
tasteless anel sodden cooked in this manner, on account of 
the inniiaturity. But on the other hand, a lamb pie |m- 
parcel like one of beef or veni.son is excellent, while iiiiH- 
ton pies have usually a strong, tallowy taste that spuii^ 
them foi' delicate palates. Roast lamb should he eaten , 
with mint sauce, if you fancy it, currant jelly and aspar- 
agus or green peas. Lettuce salad is likewise a dcsiraMt; 
accompaniment. 

LAMB CUTLETS. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Procure the first two chops of a neck of larnh, or,i 
early in the season, one from the loin ; cut tlie meat troB 



Mutton Pa4)j. 



151 



tlie l>om', trim away nearly all the fat and divide the chop 
into two slices. Dip the cutlets in egg, then crumb them 
and fry gently in butter until brown. Serve with a little 
l)L'ef gravy thickened and slightly flavoured with lemon 
juice. 

lamb's swektbreads. 

Cookery f OP Invalids. 

Some care is necessary in choosing these, for if the 
laiiil) is not itself young and tender the svveatbread will 
bo stringy and unpleasant to eat. Parboil them in 
exactly the same way as calf's sweetbread ; dip them in 
(iCTif and seasoned bread-crumbs and fry in a little butter 
until brown. Toasted bacon may be serxed with the 
sweetbreads. In this case no gravy will be required. 

A SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

True Guide to Housekeeping/. 

A saddle of mutton is the two loins together, and the 
backbone runnin<j" down the middle to the tail. Slices 
are to be cut out parallel to the backbone, on either side, 
hi a k'sr of mutton the knife is to be entered in the thick 
tlosliy part, as near the shank as will give a good slice. 
Cut towards the large end, and always to the bone. 

MUTTON TASTY. 

Little Dinners. 

Tii;^ uu Icrcut of a shoulder is best for this purpose 
Wit!i a sharp knife cut the lean meat away from an un- 
cooked shoulder of mutt(m ; let the slices be thin. This 
will not interfere with the upper side which may be hung 
as long as required after the undercut is removed. Lay 
tbe slices of meat in a pie-dish, sprinkle pe[)piu' and salt 
over them, and nearly fill the dish with a gravy that will 
j''lly ; it miy be male with mutton shanks and a little 



152 



The Canadia% Economist 



gravy beef, two nicely fried onions, a few iieppcrcorns, 
and a very small bit of niaee. If for eating cold, cover 
the pasty with a good puff paste and bake in a (juick 
oven. If to be served hot a cover of mashed i)otatoL's or 
a crust as for Devonshire pie is suitable. 

ROAST MUTTON AND LAMB. 

The Economical Cook Book. 

If a shoulder or leg, stuff as veal, spi'inkle with suit' 

{)epper and flour to cook. Serve Avitli asparagus, })ea.s, 
ettuce, beans, etc. 

DEVONSHIRE PIE. 

Little Dinners. 

Take a pound and a-half of the scrag of mutton cut it 
up into convenient pieces and ])ut it into a stewpan with 
one-half a pint of water, two large pinches of salt and 
one of pepper and two large onions sliced. Let it siiimier 
for two houi's, or till [)erfectly tender, then set the gravy 
to cool. Draw all the bones out of the meat and arrani,^' 
it neatly in a pie-dish, ])lace on the top the onions cooked 
with it, sprinkle lightly with pepper and salt, and spread 
over a thin layer of nicely sweetened apple-sauce, or apple 
marmalade and having removed the fat from the gravy, 
pour it over the meat. etc. Make a crust as follows :— 
Use suet finely shred, not chopped, in the proportion of 
three ounces to five ounces of Hour and water, in that of 
half a pint to a pound of flour. Having minced these 
ingredients with a pinch of salt, into a smooth paste, roll 
it out and beat it until the suet and flour are thoroughly 
incorporated, then roll it out in the usual manner aiul put 
it on the pie. This crust is good eaten hot and is wiiolo- 
some and diofestible. If a richer crust is desired an ounce 
of butter or lard may be added to the given proportions, 
which are about sufficient to make a crust, for one 
pound and a half of mutton. If pie-crust is objected to, 



Saddle of Mutton. 



153 



a layiM- of well ina.she(l potatoes may bo substituted, or 
slices of broad, fried a li^dit brown, and laid on as a cover 
aro very i^ood. The whole of the oonionts of the pie 
liavin<,^ been thoroui^hly cooked it will bo ready so soon 
as tile crust, of whatever kind, is nicely baked. 

LAMIi'S HP:A1), LIVKR AND HEART. 

WarncH Evcvy-day Cookery. 

A lamb's head, one Lamb's liver, one lamb's heart, yolks 
of two offu^s, a bunch of sweet herbs, bread-crumbs, one 
ounce of butter, t]n'eo-([uarters of a pint of gravy, one 
spoonful of lemon pickle or the juice of a lemon, season- 
iii<,'. Thoroughly cloiin a lamb's head and ])arboil it, then 
l)iitsli it over with the} oiks of the eggs vvell beaten, chop 
a few sweet herbs very fine, mix them with bread-crumbs 
ami a little warmed butter, and spread the mixture 
thickly over the head, then put it in a Dutch oven before 
a liiight and clear iire to h'nish dressing. Mince the liver 
and the heart very small and let them stew till done, 
pour in Ihree-quarteis of a pint of good gravy, with a 
spoonful of lemon pickle oi* the juice of a lemon, make 
the liiains into small cakes with a little milk and season- 
ing and fry them brown. Place the head in the centre of 
the dish on the minced liver and heart, and garnish with 
hrain cakes, forceuieat balls and a lemon cut into slices 
and })laced at the edge of the dish. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

Soyer. 

Take off the skin, run a skewer through the sj^inal mar- 
row hone, which affix to a larger erne with a lioldfast at 
one end and string at the other ; then tie the skin over 
the liack and put it to roast. It will not take so long a 
tnne U) roast in pioportion as another joint, one about ten 
pounds will take one hour and twenty minutes ; remove 



154 



The Canadian EconoiiiiHt. 



the paper ten minutes before taking it from tlie firo, (Iredgc 
to give it a nice colour and make gravy and sei'vo. 

JJONEI) gUAllTKR OF L\MI5. 

Wavne's Evenj-day Coohcry. 

One pound of forcemeat; melted butter. Bone af|uar- 
ter of lamb, fill it with forcemeat, roll it round, and tir it 
with a piece; of string, cover it with a buttered paper, and 
roast it. Serve it with melted butter. 

HAUXCir OF MUTTON. 

Soycr. 

Saw or break three inches from the knuckle-bono, re- 
move all skin from the loin, put it on a spit, comnu'iiciiii^ 
at the knuckle, and bringing it out at the flap, avoiding 
the HUet of the loin. Then cover it with three sheets of 
buttered paper and roast it for two hours and a-half, half 
an hour befoie being done remove the paper, baste it with 
a little butter and dredge it slightly ; when done, disli it 
up with a frill I'ound the knnekle, and pour n ])iut of hot 
gravy over. In sunnnei- French beans should be scivod 
with it, but always mashed potatoes. 

MUTTON AND LAMR. 

DomediC Cookery. 

Mutton and lamb must be rojxsted with a (piick, clear. 
fire. Biuste it as soon as you lay it down, sprinkle on n 
little salt, and when near done, dredge it with Hour. A 
leg of mutton of six pounds will take an hour and a (|iiar- 
ter, and one of twelve, two hours ; a breast, half an hour 
at a quick fire; a neck, an hour, and a shoulder much alioiit 
the same time as a le^:. h\ dressinij the loin, the chine 
("which is the two loins), and the saddle (which is tJif 
two necks and part of the shoulders cut together), you 
must raise the skin, and skewer it on, and when near clone, 



w 



15: 



i) 



Scotch If<i(/fjJs>. 

Uikv olTtlie skin, and haste it to froth it up. Semi some 
good plain giavy up witli it. 

TON'(jrKS OR I'DDKRS. 

Dome>tfic Coohcy. 

I'iiilidil the tonfjue ])efore you put it down to roast ; 
stick tin'lit or ten eloves ai)out, haste it with hutter, and 
serve it up with some ^ravy and sweetmeat sauce. An 
U(Mt r niav he roasted alter tlu* same manner. You may 
also lard tlie ton;^nie nicely, hut take care tliat tlie fire does 
not liurn tlie larding. 

LEG OF MUTT(^N KOASTKD WITH OYSTKUS. 

Dome f tic Cookery. 

Take a fine le<j: of mutton that has hun<j: two or three 
(lays, stuH" every part of it with oysters ; roast it, and 
wlnii ilone, pour some good gravy into the disli, and gar- 
nish with horse-radish. 

SCOTCH IIAOOIS. 

Mrs. Fra.^er, Almonte. 

Procure a sheep's paunch, allow it to stand in salt and 
water. Then scrape and hlanch it in salt water ; parhoil 
lieart, lights and liver, add suet and mince them well, half a 
gallon of oatmeal, one ([uart of milk and water, four onions 
chopped fine, a little summer savory, and ])lonty of all- 
spice, pepper, salt; mix an<l sow firndy. Then hoil for 
four houis on a slow fire. Prick it well when boiling; 
serve hot. 

SCOTCH HAOOIS. 

Afrs. Mdckic, Ottawa. 

A sheep's stomach ; clet^n well with waim water. Tn- 
greditnts, half pound of oatmeal, two large sized (minced 
fine) onions. A teaspoonful of pe])per, one of salt, half a 



156 



21(6 Canadian Economist. 



pound of beef suet, minced fine. .Parboil the liver, and 
grate lialf of it. Mix all together, and till the bag niode- 
ratelv. Boil two hours. 

MUTTON ROLLED. 

Book of the Houseliold. 

Bone a shoidder of nuitton carefully, so as not to injure 
the skin ; cut all the meat from the skin, mince it siiuill, 
and season it highly with pepper, a nutmeg, a clove, some 
parsle}', some thyme, sweet marjoram chopf)ed, and a 
pounded onion, all vaW mixed together, with the well- 
beaten yolk of an i'^^<^. Roll it up very tighth' in the 
skin, tie it round, and l>ake it in an oven, two or tliivo 
hours, aecordinii' to the size of the nnitton. Make a rnnvv 
of the oones and parings; season, with an onit)!! pcpixr 
and salt, strain and thicken it with flour and butter; adil 
vinegar, nuishroom catsup, .soy, and lemon ])iviv]e, a tabli- 
spoonful of each. Garnisli with foremeat balls made of 
grated bread, and part of the mince. 

SLICES OF MUTTON WITH (I'vK.AM. 
Booh of the IfoaselioJd. 

Cut a roasted loin of mutton int«) slices, whicn put into 
a stewpan ; chop u}) some small onions, stew them with a 
(piarter of a pound of fi'esh butter and a little stock, aui! 
'vvd:en nearly dissolved, add half a )»int of good cream, salt 
and pep})er. Let it 'noil live minutes ; then put in the slices 
of mutton and make them (piite hot, but iney must not 
boil. Serve them cpiickly. 

QUARTER OF LAM I! (rOASTKD AND LARDED). 

Booh o:' the Ilouxclwld. 

Take a fore-cpiarter of lamb, lard, the up|)er side of tlie 
joint with lean l)acon, and sprinkle the other side thickly 
with bread-crumbs ; then cover with paper, to prevent the 



Lamb Padnj. 



157 



t into 


vitha 


\. .•iinl 


n, salt 


,slia's 


-it not 



)f the 
lii.-kly 
lit the 



moat from being burnt and ro<ast it. When nearly done, 
take it from the fire, and cover tlie part tliat has not been 
larded a second time with brea<l-crumbs, seasoned with 
salt and parsley, chopped very finely ; then put tlie lamb 
ai^aiu Itefore a l)riglit tiro to brown it. Serve wich a little 
vinegar poured over it. 

LAMB. 

Bool- of the lloascltoJd. 

A slioulder of lamb of moderate size will require roast- 
ing' from three (piarters of an hour to an hour. When 
(lidie, put some good gravy into the disli with the lamb ; 
and serve mint sauce in a boat. 

LAMB CHOPS HROII.Kl). 

Bool' of the Household. 

Cut a loin or the best end of the neck into chops, flat- 
ten tliem, and cut off the fat and skin, rub the gridiron 
with a little fat, broil them on a clear tire, turn them with 
steak tongs till <piite done and serve them hot. 

KIDNEY DUMPLINGS. 

Booh of the Household. 

Make your dumplings in the usual way and put in each 
a kidney (nuitton kidney) well washed, and seasoned with 
l)e}))ier and salt, boil them tied in a cloth and serve them 
very hot. 

LAMB TASTY. 

Book of the Household 

Bone the lamb, cut it into four pieces, lay beef suet at 
the hottom of the pastry, ami season the lamb with pepper, 
salt, chopped thyme, nutmeg, cloves and mace ; lay it upon 
the sutt ; makitig a high border about it ; then turn over 
your sheet of paste, close it up and bake it. When it is 



158 



The Canadian Economist. 



baked, [)ut in vinegar, the yolks of eggs well beaten and 
some good gravy. 

KIDNEYS. 

Booh of the Household. 

Cut them through the long way, score them and sprinklt- 
them over with a very little pepj)ei' and in order to hioil 
all over alike, and in keep them from euiling on the grid- 
iron, run a wire skewer riglit through them. They must 
be broiled over a clear fire, being careful to turn tlieiii 
frecjuently till they are done. They will take about ten 
oi- twelve n inutes to broil provided they are done over a 
brisk tire ; or if you choose you may fry them in butter, 
and make gravy for them in the pan by putting in a tea- 
spoonful of Hour. As soon as it looks brown put in a 
sutHcient quantity of water as ^vill make gravy. They 
will take live minutes lonwr frvinn- than boilino-. Ganiislt 
with fried parsley, You may improve them, if you think 
proper, l)y cho])ping a few ])arsley leaves veiy finely, mix- 
ing them with a piece of fresh butter, a little pop[)er ami 
salt, and then putting some of this mixture over eacli 
kidney. 

]3EEF KIDNEY. ' 

Booh of the Household. 

Take a kidney and braise it till very tender ; shred it 
finely, serve it upon stewed cucumbers, oi- any other green 
you like better. It should be rather highly seasoned. 

ROLLED LOIN OF MUTTON. 

Little Dinners. ' 

With a sharp knife remove all the bones from three 
poun<l8 of the best end of a loin of nnitton,cut away the til- 
let from the bones, nnnce it very finely,add an equal w;:igiit 
of bread-crumbs, a shalot scraped and minced, a little 
fresh parsley chopped, pepper and salt, and enough egj,' to 



Laml/s Fry. 



159 



Itind it, place tliis on the mutton, bind it up tiglitly with 
tiijR', riil> the outside vvitli flour, pe[)j)er and salt and roast 
slowly ill fclie ovTn or in a!iy otiier way you choose. Fry 
the hones with onions until brown and make them into a 
food j^ravy, with a little stock and any morsels ot* meat 
voii liai)pen to have, thicken the gra\y and pour round 
the meat. Garnish with stowed or glazed onions. 

GLAZKD ONIONS. 

L'ltffc Din vers. 

Clioose small ones, as nearly the same size as possible. 
For twelve onions, •^)ut an ounce of butter, an ounce of 
lump suL;-ar, a little salt and pepper, and sufficient li^ravy 
tofuvcr tile onions, ])ut in the onions, and let them boil 
gently until done, then take them out and set the gravy 
to boil sharply without the lid ot* the stewpan until re- 
ihiccil to a glaze, then thoroughly coat the onions, by 
siiaking them in it. Place round the mutton, taking caro 
not to let them be covered with the gravy. 

LA.MI'/S FRY. 

Little Dinners. 

X re.dly ])roper fry should consist not only of sweet- 
liivuds and liver, but of the heart, milt, brains, frill and 
kidneys, each of which re([uires ;' different treatment. It 
is (luite as easy to co(jk a fry j)roj)erly as to flour and fry 
it hard ami oveidtrown, as it is too 7re([uently done, trim 
the sweetbi"ea«ls neatly, and siuHuer them tor a (piarter of 
ail hour in good white stock with an onion; when they are 
lone, take tliem up and put the biains ii\ the gravy, al- 
lowing them t(j boil as fast as possible in order to harden 
tlieiii, let them get cold, then cut into slices, egg and bread- 
(iiinih them, and fry with the sweetl)rearl in a little 
liiitter. After the brains are taken out of the gravy, put 
ilie slices of heart and milt in and let them stew slowly 



160 



The Canadian Economist. 



until tender, when they are ready, flour them and fry 
with the liver and frill until brown. Lastly put the kid- 
neys cut in slices, into the pan, and very gently fry foi 
ahout a minute, shake a little flour into the pan, stir it 
about until it bej^ins to brown, then pour on to it tlie 
gravy in which the sweetbread &c., were stewed. See 
it is nicely seasoned, and pour round the fry, wliich 
should be neatly arrayed on the centre of the dish, gain- 
isli with fried parsley 

FISH STKW. 

Waiiies Everyday Cool-ery. 

Two pounds and a half of chops, eight potatoes, four 
small onions, nearly a quart of water. Take about two 
pounds and a half of chops from a loin of mutton, place 
them in astewpan with alternate layers of sliced potatoes 
and layers of chops, add four small onions and pour in 
nearly a quart of cold water, cover the stewpan closely and 
let it stew gently until the potatoes are ready to mash, 
and the greater part of the gravy is absorbed ; then place 
it on a dish, and serve it up very hot. 

sheep's trotters. 
Warnes E eery -day Cookery 

Four trotters, one tablespoonful of flour, a saltspoonfiil 
of salt. Perfectly cleanse and blanch the trotters takiiij,' 
care to remove the little tuft of hair, which is found in 
the fourche of the foot. Beat up a spoonful of flour aiul 
a little salt in the water you use for cooking them iu,aiiJ 
let them stew till Ihe bones come out easily. 



^jiiO'^^^^^^^^^^^ 



CHAPTER XI. 



GAME PIE von CHRISTMAS. 

Casseirs Dldlonary of Cookery. 

rplIIS pie is suitable wliere game is abumlant, anrl ex- 
_L pense no object. Malvo a thick, stiti'crust, it may be 
either baked in a mould, or formed into sliape with the 
hiiiids. The latter operation is not easy for those unac- 
custoined to it Line the bottom witli slices of fat bacon, 
spread over that a layer of forcemeat, made by scaldin<j; the 
livers of the birds, and poundino- them with their weight 
ill tat bacon and lean ham, a few truttles, some bread-crumbs, 
salt, pepper, savoury hei-bs, parsley, and rasj)ed lemon rind. 
Then put in some of the joints of the birds — the breasts 
should be larded — and strew over all some Hnely chopped 
mushrooms; repeat until the pie is full ; season rather light- 
ly, and keej) putting little lumps of butter in amongst the 
other ingredients, say some slices of bacon on the top ; put 
on the lid ; ornament with pastry leaves and other devices ; 
brush over with beaten e«>o" and bake in a moderate oven. 
It' the pie is to be served hot, pour some strong gravy over 
it, as soon as it is baked; if cold, take away the bacon from 
the top and put some roughed aspic jelly over it before 
sending it to table. This pie may be made of phefisants, 
partridges, woodcocks, snipe, grouse, fee. 

CRUMBS FOR GAME. 

CasseWs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take the crumbs of a stale roll, grate it very finely; put 
the cnnnbs into a stewpan with one ounce of fresh butter ; 
11 



162 



The Canadian Economist. 



place them on a slow fire, and move them a])Out with a 
wooden spoon till they are bright brown ; put them on a 
sieve to drain and hand them round on a separate disli. 
They are especially iv(juired when tlic game is ratlier higli ; 
a few minutes to brown. 



FORCKMEAT FOR GAME. 

Cassell'i^ Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take a ([uarter of a pound of fat bacon and a (piaiter of 
a pound of calf's liver ; cut into convenient sized pieces, 
and fry them until half-cooked, then chop them small ; put 
them into a mortar and pound them thoroughly with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of {)epper, and a pincli 
of powdered mace. Wlu;n well pounded add the well- 
beaten yolks of two eggs; and if these are not sufficient tu 
bind all together, add a little cream. 

GAME PATTIES. 

CasnelVs Dictionary of Cooh'vy. 

Make a nicely Havoured mince of the remains of game: 
moisten with a little gravy; make some small round patties 
of good light ci'ust, or puff paste ; brush them over with 
beaten egg, and bake them till lightly browned ; warm the 
mince in a saucepan, })ut a little in the centre of each and 
serve them hot, piled on a nai)kin ; twice ten minutes to 
bcike. 

ENGLISH GAME FIE. 

CasselCs Dictionary of Cookery. 

The great point to be attended to in this dish, is to use 
venison that has been well kept. The best end of the neck 
is what should be taken. Trim and rub it with niatv, 
nutmeg, cayenne and salt; boil down the trimmings of veiii- 
.son to the inferior joints of a hare to make gravy ; taki 
the back and thighs of the hare, and after boning them 



Prairie Chickens, Partriihjefi and Quail. 1 63 

till with forcemeat, using sbiilot and the raw liver of the 
hare, minced up in the forcemeat. Line a di«h with short- 
crust ; |>ut in tlu! venihon and hare, filling up every space 
with forcemeat ; add a little of the gravy, put on the covei", 
ornament tlie top and l)ake in a hot oven. When venison 
is not liked, substitute the ])rinie joints of another hare ; 
time, about two hours and a half to b;ike. 

GAMK SArSA(ii:S. 

Casstlts JJictioiiiU'i/ of CooLery. 

Take the remains of game ; cut off the meat ; remove 
carefully the skin an<l sinew ; minc(; tlie Hesh and pound it 
in a mortar with six: ounces of lean liam and six ounces of 
Itutter to every pound of meat; season rather liighly with 
salt, pep|)«^r and powdered mace ; put the mixture into 
skins and fry in hot butter or hud for three (quarters of 
!in hour. 

TO REMOVE TAINT FROM 0AM K. 

Wash the game first in cidoride of sola and afterwards 
ill fresh water, and dry it thoroughly in a cloth before 
cooking, or put some fresh powdered charcoal, tied in mus- 
lin, inside the crop ; take the charcoal out and throw it 
away before sending the bird to table. 

I'llAlUlE CHICKENS, I'AllTlUDliES AND QUAIL 

Clean nicely, using a little soda in the watei* in wliich 
they are washed; rinse them, and diain and till with 
ilrossing, stewing them up nicely, and binding down the 
It'ij.s and wings with cord ; put them in a steamer and let 
them cook ten minutes, then put them in a pan with a 
little butter ; set them in the oven and baste frequently, 
until of a nice bi'own. They ought to brown in about 
thirty-tive minutes. Serve them in a platter, with sprigs 
of parsley, alternated with currant jelly. 



104. 



Th£^ Canullan Economist. 



BAKED PIGEONS. 

Late Mrs. Bcvry, Toronto. 

Clean ami prepare as for roasting, lay them in a hake- 
pan on their l)acks, anl plaeeon the breasts of each a thin 
slice of salt pork or hxcvjn, cover the bottom of the pan 
with cold watisr, anl set in a hot ov«;n, baste often till 
done; place the birds on their bicks on t!ie dish, garnish 
with water-cress, sprinkle wit!i lemon juice, and serve 
waiin. 

ROILED PIOEONS. 

Late Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Truss tliem like boiled chickens, dnjp them into plenty 
of hot water, and throw in a little salt; in fifteen minutes 
lift them out, and dish. Pour parsley and butter over 
them, and send to the table. 

WILD PIGEOX PIE. 

Late ,][rs. Hcrr^j, Toronto. 

This is made precisely as in (piail pie, except that the 
pige<ms are cut in four pieces each, and not stuffed. Par- 
boil and lay in the dish in alternate layers with the bacon 
and boiled eggs. Make the gravy richer than for the 
((uails, by the addition of a good lump of butter rollcil in 
flour, stirred in and boiled up to thicken before yoi put 
it on the fire. Wild pigeons are usually tougher and 
leaner than tame. 

t^UAIL PIE. 

Late Mrs. Berrji, Toronto. 

(Jlean, truss and stuff the Lirds, loosen the joints with 
a penknife, but do not separate them. Parboil for ten 
mitnites, while you prepare a puff paste. Line a deep 
dish with this ; put in the bottom some shreds of salt 
pork or ham, next a layer of hard-hoiled eggs, buttered 



Q}(alls Rodsfc.d irUh I fain. 



16o 



and peppered, then the birds, sprinkltjd witli pepper and 
niinct'd pai.sley ; s(jueeze some Irnion juice upon them, 
and lay upon the breasts })iee('s of butter rolled in Hour; 
cover with slices of eg^^ then with shied ham; pour in 
some of the j[(i'nvy in which the (piails were parboiled, 
and put on the lid, leaving a hole in th<> mi<ldle. Bake 
over an hour. 

WILD DUCKS. 

Late ilMs'. Bcrri/, Tonntfo. 

Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a tisliy flavour, 
and when handled by inexperienced cooks are sometimes 
uneatable, fi'om this cause. Hefoie loasting them, guard 
a"^ainst this by ijarlioilini,' them with a small carrot, 
jHrled. put within ea(di. This will absord the unpleasant 
taste. An onion will have the same efiV'ct; but, unless 
you mean to use onion in the stuffing, the carrot is pre- 
ferable. In my own kitchen I usually put in the onion, 
considering a sus])icion of garlick a <Iesideratum in roast 
(luck, whether wild or tame. 

IIOAST DITCK (WIIJ)). 

Parboil as above directed; throw away the carrot or 
onion; lay in fresh water half an hour, stuff' with bread- 
crunihs, sea.soned with pep|)er, salt, sage and onion, and 
roast until brown and tender, bastiuij for half the time 
with butter and water, then witli the dri|>ping ; ad«l to 
the fjravy, when you have taken up the ducks, a table- 
spooiifid of currant jelly, and a pinch of cayenne ; thicken 
with brown flour, and serve in a tureen. 

<iLAlLS ROASTED WITH HAM. 

Late Mrs. Bevrfj, Toronto. 

Clean, truss, and stuff' as usual ; cover with slices of 
ham or pork, with a sheet of wliite })apei", having secured 
the slices of meat with pack thread, stick the papers on 



IGO 



The Omadiun EconomUt. 



and kre|) tluiin well bastiMl with butter and water that 
they may not burn. Roast tliree (juartcrs of an liour, 
if the fire is jjjood. Remove the papers and meat Ijefore 
sending' to table, and brown quiekly. This is the nict^st 
way of cookin<.j quails. 

huntkr's hkckipt for roasting PAiniUDnK. 

yotii lie Eiiytix'Uah. 

First secui-e the binls, one for eaeli man, as any loss 
will be found to be insufficient ; then dress in the ordinary 
way, with the exception of the feathers, thesis arc not 
removed. Adressin^M)f [jotatoes and onions, with a little 
sage, if the cam]) is in posst'ssion of such a delicacy, and 
a small (piantity of salt, may ])e prepared and inserted in 
the ordinary maimer, not forgettiui^ to sew up th(i aper- 
ture ; then make a stiff paste with clay and water, covci' 
each biid, si'])arately, with a covering of this paste of 
about an inch in thickness; after which, place them in a 
])ed of live coals, covering- them well ; allow to remain so 
until the clay cracks, when they will be found to be well 
cooked. After beiuir allowed to cool for a few minutes, 
remove the dav, the feathers and skin will adhere to it 
By this process the aroma is not allowed to escape and 
the meat will be found to be sweet an<l juicy. Trv it! 

FRICASSEl'.D TURKLV. 

The remains of cold roast or boiled turkey ; a strip of 
lemon })eel, a bunch of savoury herbs, onion, pepper and 
salt to taste, ont^ pint of water, four tablespoonsful of 
cream, the yolk of an egg, cut some nice slices from tin; 
remains of a cold turkey and put the bones and trimmings 
into a stewpan, with the lemon peel, herbs, onions, pepper, 
.salt, and the water ; stew for an hour, strain the gravy 
and lay in the pieces of turkey; when warm through. 
add the cream and the yolk of an e^^^, stir it well round 
and when getting thick take out the pieces, lay them ou 



To Boil a Turkey. 



107 



that 
liour, 
efore 
liciist 



\y loss 
liinary 
ire not 
!i littlf 
;y, anil 
rtetl in 
(; a])er- 
r, cover 
)ast(- of 
em in a 
main so 
be woU 
linntes, 
re to it 
ipo and 
ivit! 



strip of 
)ev and 
insfnl i»f 
Ironi tlu' 
Imniing^ 

popper. 
le gi-avy 
Ihrougii 
111 round 

bhem ou 



allot tiish and pour the sauco over. Garnish the fricassee 
with .sipi)ets of toasted hread. Celery or cucuml)er may 
ho put into the sauce, if the former, it must be boiled 
first. 

CHK'KKN AND HAM I'lK. 

Cut two chickens into joints, season them with .salt, 
jiippcr and (tayenne, a little powdered mace and a table- 
sjinoiiful of cliopped mushrooms ; then make balls of force- 
inrat iiiid the hard-boiled y<»lks of e<,';^s, and lay tlunn in 
the dish between the Joints of chicken with a few slices 
of lean ham in l>etween, and add a little water with a 
nuislirooni boilcfl in it. Cover with \m\\' paste and bake. 

FOWI. STUFFKI) WITH OVSTKR.S. 

The. Infaliirs Cixtk. 

Truss a young fowl, as for boiling, and till the inside, 
wliii'h must have been well cleaned, with oysters, from 
which the beards have been taken, and which have been 
washed in their own li([Uor, tie up the en<ls of the fowl and 
put it into a pipkin or earthen-ware jar, which, put into a 
snuccpan of boiling water; keep it boiling for nearly 
two Jiours an«l then take the gravy which will have 
flowed from the fowl and stir into it gradually the yolks 
of two eggs, well beaten, and a teacupful of milk; then 
put this sauce into a saucepan and let it get (juite hot, 
but without boiling, and pour it over the fowl when sent 
to table. A few oysters may also be added to the sauce 
if liked ; but all but a very little must be sent up in a 
tureen. From two to three dozen of oysters is the num- 
ber want<Ml. 

TO BOIL A TUUKEV. 

Mrs. MuxvjpU. 

Stuff the turkey with bread, butter, salt, pepper, and 
minced parsley, tie uj) the legs ami wings as for roas^ 
ing and then pin round it a cloth well sprinkled with flour. 



1G8 



The Canadian Erommiint. 



Boil forty minutoM, tako off tlio pot aixl let it stand, kfop- 
iiiff the lid (doso half an hour, when it is ready to serve, 
whieh should he dont^ with diawn hutter and stcwod 
oysters. 

POTTKI) FOWL. 

The. li,val'uV» Cook. 

Take i\u) white meat from a eold fowl euttinj; off tlic 
skin and ^M-istle ; add to it a little cold ham, tonijuc. oi 
lean l)acon, and th(;n after nnneiii^ the meat nj) finely. 
ponn<l it well in a moitar, addini;- at the same time, hiittci 
and spices to flavour it, in the proportion of ahout two 
ounces of fn^sh hutter, a few iL,M\'iins of cayenne ])epper, a 
saltspoonfuU of ])ound(!d mace and half that (juantityof 
grated nutnu;<( to every pound of meat. When the whole is 
well mixed to<,'ether and reiiurecl to a smooth [)aste, put it 
into a pot and pour elaritied hutter ahout a «iuart(ir of an 
inch on the too. If the meat is vei'V drv a litth^ iiioiv 
butter may be used in poundin<;. 

CHICKEN GIULI'T IMH. 

Little Dlnno^: 

Prepare the <jfihlets as for stewinf]f. When done reniovi- 
the meat from the n«'cks and pinions and lay it with the 
rest of the gibU'ts in a pie-dish ; put slices of boiled hacoii 
between each layer, till up the disl> with jijravy and cover 
with a crust, either as for Devonshire pie, or of masheil 
potatoes. Bake for half an hcnu-. 

RAHIUTS OH IIAUKS. 

Ko Karne. 

After your rabbit is cleaned, truss it and put it on to 
boil with cold water enough to cover it ; when it is hoiltd 
tender, take it out and fry it in boiling lard to a ligjit 
brown. Take it out and set it near the fire ; have six 



To Roost Pavtr'uhjeH. 



1(10 



onions slicod and put tln;ni in tlw hoilinLj lanl. Whon 
tliev flit! fried a nice brown, pour a little Ixiilin;^' water in 
tlu' IVyinj,' pan and on«,> toaspot nful of browned H<tnr. 
Pour tliis gravy over the rabbit seasoned with pepper and 

salt. 

TO llOAST A RAHIIIT. 

Kill it witli forcemeat, sew it uj), truss and roast it at a 
"" briijlit fire, and l»aste it eonstantlv with butter 




DUCKS. 

Ducks are .sonietiuiLvs roasted without stufKni>-. When 
^tutting is used, white potatoes, well Itoileib mashed and 
lii''lilv .seasoned, make a nice stuHini''. \\'ild ducks are 
never stuffed. Wild ducks should be a little underdone 
.Vlwavs stew tlie <^iblets, mince; them and add to the gravy 
wiiicli thicken with a little tioui'. 

TO llOAST rAHrilID(JES. 

Let the birds hang as long as they can possibly be kej>t 
\vith( ut becoming offensive; pick tlu-m. carefidly (h"aw 
and singe them, wipe the inside thoroughly with a clean 
cloth; truss them with the liead twined un(h'r tlui \\ ing 
ami the Ws drawn clo.se together or crossed. Flour them 
when first laid to the fire, and bn.ste them pleiitifrilly with 
Itutter ; .serve them with bread-.sauce and good bn>wu 
gravy ; a little of this last should be pouied over tliem. 
Tliirtv to forty minutes will cook them ; ratlier less time 
must he allowed when the birds are liked undenlre.s.sed. 
In preparing them for the spit, the crop must be i-emoved 
through a slit in the back of the neck, the claws clipped 
close and the legs held in boilinfr water for a minute that 
they may be skinned the more easily. 



170 



The Canadian Ecouomial. 



HOAST TUKKKY. 

What I knoiu. 

Cut off the tips of (lie 'win<T:s, the neck, <xiz^<'^''<h liver 
',\\\i\ heart, and lay them aside ior jjfiavy ; make a tillin<.' 
of hread, butter, sweet mai'joram or j)aisley, and af^r 
washing the fowl thoionghly stuff it witli this ; cook it 
two or three hours ; ^ravy, boil the neck, »Szc., tender. 
with salt. Do chickens the same. An hour generally cooks 
them. For sauce — cianbeny sauce, currant jelly, o3'.st('r 
sauce. 

J'.it:)ILKD CPIICKKNS. 

Take those that are young and tender, cut them down 
hack .»nd bieast — wash and diy them. Lay tlicin flat 
and skewer them down ; .seas ?n with pepper and salt, and 
broil half an hour on hot coals. Stew the giblets in watii 
enough to cover them ; when <lone, mix Hour an<l Ijuttii 
and a little ])arsley chopped tine, stir it in and come to a 
boil. Take off- -dish the chickens and pour the graw 
over. 

TURKEYS. 

Z>( tin est ic Cool'i' } 'i/. 

When 30ur turkey is properly trussed for dressinff 
stuff it with the followino- inm-edients : take four ounces df 
butter or chopi)ed suet, some giated biead, a little lemon 
peel, parsley and sweet heibs ch()})ped together, jx-ppcr, 
salt and nutmeg, a little cream, and the yolks of twooi 
three eirir.-^ Work these all well too-cther and fill the 
craw with Let your tire be very bi-isk, and wiuii 

you put it ilown paper the breast, and let it contimu' on 
till near done ; then take it off, divdge it with Hour, and 
keep basting till it is done. If it is a large turkey serve 
it up with gravy alone, or brown celery, or nuishrooni 
sauce. If it is a turkey-poult, serve it up with gravy and 
bread sauce, the latter of which make thus : — Tut the 



Foiuls. 



171 



crumby part of a penny loaf into tliin «lices, put it into 
a saueepMU witli cold water, a few pe))percorns, a little 
salt and an onion ; boil it till tlie bread is (piite soft, and 
then beat it very fine. Put it into a (piarter of a |:)ound 
of butter, witli two spoonsful t)f tbi(;k cream, and when, it 
l.oils up pour it into a basin or boat and serve it up with 
the turkey. A middlinj.;" sized tnikey will take more 
than an hour, a sniall one three-(juarters of an lujur, and 
a very lar<Te one an hour and a half. In (lressin«jf these, 
as well as fowls, always let your fire be clear and biisk. 

(riK'KKNS AND TON'C.UKS. 

Domestic (\)()kery. 

Boil six small chickens verv white ; then take six boos' 
t()n<,nies boiled and peeled, a cauliHower boiled whole in 
milk and water, a good deal of spinach boiled green. Then 
lav your cauliHower in the middle, the cliickens close all 
round, and the tongues round them with the roots out- 
wards, and the spinach in little heaps between the tongues, 
(larnish with small pieces of liacon toasted, and biy a 
piece on each of the tongues. This is a good dish for a 
lar<ie company. 

F0\V1.S. 

Domefific Cookenj. 

Singe and clean your fowls, baste them with butter 
and dredge over .some flour; when they begin to smoke 
haste and dredge them again : let the fire i»e brisk, an<l 
H'lid them to table with a good froth. The proper .sauces 
tor roast fowls are, gravy, egg, mushroom or celery .sauce, 
the latter of which make thus : wash and j^ai'e a large 
Imnch of celery very clean, cut it into thin bits, and boil 
it gently in a little water till it is ten<ler, then add a little 
beaten mace, nutmeg, pej)per and salt and thicken it 
with a large piece of butter rolled in Hour; then give it 
aboil and serve it up in a boat. To the water in which 



172 



Tkr, Canadian Economist. 



you boil the celery put half a pint of cream which will 
make it very rich and substantial. This is an excellent 
sauce, not only for fowls, but also for partridges or any 
other game of the same kind. 

CUK'KKNS. 

Iknncsfic Cooker//. 

Be particulail y Cineful in drawing your chickens, wliidi 
done cut off their claws, nnd truss them for dressing; j)ut 
them down to a good tire, jind singe, dust and baste tlioin 
with buttei. \Vhen they an; done enough troth them and 
lay tl.em in your dish. Serve them up with parsley ami 
butter ])Oured over them and j^ravv and nujshroom sauce 
in l)oats. A laroe chicken will take half an hour, a snifdl 
one twenty minutes. 

. VKNISON. 

Domcstu- Cooke ri/. 

Take a haunch of venison and rid) some butter all over 
it. Take four sluiets of clean paper well buttered, two of 
which put on the hamich. Tiien make a paste with soiac 
floui-, a little butter and water; roll it out half {is big as 
your haunch and jtut it over the fat part ; cover this with 
the other two sheets of paper and tie them fast with 
l)ack-thread. Lay it to a brisk fire and baste it well all 
the time it is roasting. When it is near done take oti 
both ])aper and paste, dredge it well with flour and baste 
it well with butter all the time it is roastinii'. As soon 
as it becomes of a light brown take it up ami servo it to 
table with brown gravy, currant jelly, oi- any other sauci' 
suitable for venison. A haunch will take about tlirei' 
hours roastiuii'. 

TO ROAST A TURKEY OR CHICK EX. 

Home Messenger. 

In England and on the continent neither a turkey nor 
a chicken is stuffed ; but not only is the stuffing nice in 



itself 
fowl. 

Stutl" 

truss 
Put ii 
c'lok I 
tiirke\ 
ilo ill 
and ht 
take 
'^Viwy 

;TOitl}- 

sa;l,^es, (, 
U'itJl e;ii 



■Stuff 1 

pactly in 

per and I 

"ver the i 

tliem wit] 

'"' cover, { 

'to four, oi 

I ^'irds. f f 

l«ay they 

P^'CtJy tenc; 

l'['C' gravy 

Jishino-. 



''igie(h'er 
l^'iuarter of 
l^iitter, popjj 



Moast Goose. 



itself, it (rives as ivi.il ^^^ 

'»>vl. After d.■a^vi,„; „*:LPr"T' '^ '"'* «'>vour to ih 

1-tlti'on'' "■'"''',"<■•'' '''^-l-'lressin.. , 
1 ofe- <^'noo.^ing and 



174 



The (Janadhui Economist . 



trussing;: Select a goose with a clean white skin, plump 
breast, and yellow feet; if these latter are red, the bird is 
old. Should the weather permit, let it hang for a few 
days : by so doing the flavour will V)e very much improv- 
ed. Pluck, singe, draw, and carefully wash and wipe the 
goose ; cut off the neck close to the back, leaving the skin 
long enough to turn over; cut ofl' the feet at the tir.'st 
joint, and separate the pinio!is at the Krst joint. Beat 
the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin, put a skewer into 
the middle of each, and pass the same (juite tliiough the 
body. Insert another skewer into the small of the le;,', 
bring it close down to the si<ledjone, run it through, and 
<lo the same to tiie other side. Now cut ott' the end of 
the l)ent, and niaki' a hole in the skin sutficiently larj,'(' 
for the passag(! of the lump, in order to keep in the 
seasoning. 

Mode : Make a sage and onion stuffing of the above 
ingredients, put it into the body of the goo.se, and secure 
it flrmly at both ends, by passing the rumj) through the 
hole made in the skin, and the other end by tying the 
skin of the neck to the back; by this means the seasoning 
will not escape. Put it down to a Inisk Are, keep it well 
basted, and roast from one and a half to two hours, ac- 
cording to the size. Remove the skewers, and serve with 
a tureen of good gravy, and one of well-made a[)[)le 
sauce. Should a very highly flavoured sea.soning be pre- 
ferred, the <mions sliouhl not be parboiled, but niinccl 
raw : of the two methods the mild seasoning is prefeiahle. 
A ragout or pie sliould be made of the giblets, or they 
may be stewed down to make gravy. Be careful to serve 
the goose before the breast falls, or its appearance willb' 
spoiled by coining flattened to table. As this is rather 
a troublesome joint to carve, a large (juantity of gravy 
should not be poured roiuid the goose, but .sent in a 
tureen. 

Time : A la rge goose one and three-quarters, a mot leratc- 
sized onC; an hour and a (juarter, or an hour and a halt. 



Gravy fo r Ve n i.so n. 



175 



TO COOK OLD FOWLS. 

'OasseIVs HoiiHchoh/ Guide. 

Tilt' (jlclost and toiigliest fowls may bo made into a 
savoury and nutritious disli by the following' metliod, 
which is oiven as a tried and warranted receipt, because 
sncli birds are so often pronounced uneatable, thrown 
away aud wasted: When the fowl is phieked and drawn, 
joint it, as for a pie. l)(j not skin it. Stew it five hours, 
in a close saucepan, with salt, mace, onions, or any other 
riavdurini^^ ingredient that nuiy be apj)roved ; a clove ot 
<i-arlic Muiy be added when not disliked. WhcHi tender, 
turn it out into a deep <lish, so that the meat may be en- 
tirely covered with the li(]Uor. Let it stand thus in its 
own jelly for a dny or two (this is the u'rand secret), it 
may then be .serveil in the shape of a hash, a curry, or a 
pie, and will be found little inferior to a pheasant nn<ler 
similar circumstances. The addititjn of stock, made from 
jffimediones arid trinunings, will improve the Havour. 

FRIED VENISOX. 

Cdsself'.s HouHchohi Gaii/e. 

Cut the meat into slices, and make n-ravy of the bones. 
Fry it of a light brown, and keep it hot l>efore the fire. 
Put l»utter lolled in Hour into it and kee{) stirring till thick 
md hrown. Put in some tinelv powdeied .sni-ar, and the 
;'ravy made of the bones ; let it be the thickmvssof cream. 
Squeeze in a lenion : warm the venison in it, put in the 
ilishaiul pour sauce over it. (Jmitthe sugar if you choose, 
■indsend currant jelly to talde with it, in a glass. 

(iRA^■Y FOR VKNLSON 

(JoMeWs Household Guide. 

A strong, unfavoured gravy, seasoned with salt ordy, is 
^'enerally served with venison ; it may be made as follows: 



17G 



The Canad'uiih Economist. 



Take the trimmings of the venison, or failing these, a 
pound or two of the scrag end of a neck of mutton cut 
into chops. Fry these till ihey are brightly browncil on 
both sides ; pour over them a (juart of boiling watei-, anil 
let the gravy simmer gently till it is reduced to one-half. 
Skim as re(|uired, and season with s.ilt. Let it get cold ; 
free it entirely from fat, and serv(! in a tureen. The meat 
on the nuitton bones may be potted and used as a break- 
fast relish. 

VKNISON STEAKS ( BROILED). 

C(i8S(.'ll\s Jloitsehold Guide. 

Cut the steaks an inch thick, from the leg or the 1(. In of 
venison; make the gridiron hot, rub the bai's with a little 
suet, and j)lace the steaks upon it over a clear tire, turn 
tiiem every two minutes to preserve the gravy. Make the 
steak dish very hot, put on it for each half-pound of veni- 
son an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of lirpiid, red cur- 
rant jell}', a tablespoonful of boiling stock or water, and 
a little pepper and salt. Turn the broiled steaks in the 
sauce once or twice, and serve hot. By way of vaiiety, 
the butter only may l)e put into the dish under the steaks, 
and stewed mushrooms may be served with the venison; 
or thin slices of lemon may be laid on the steaks for the 
last two or th)'e(^ minutes tliat they are beii»g broiled, and 
then served with them. Time : from twenty to twenty- 
live minutes to broil the steaks. 

PASTRY FOR VENISON PASTY. 

Cas^i'IVs Household Guide. 

Pastry for venison pasty should be good and short, but 
stitt. For a rich pastry, it should be made in the propor- 
tion of ten ounces of butter to one pound of flour, and 
worked to smooth, stiti' paste, v/ith two eggs and a little 
warm water. For an ordinary pasty, rub three er four 
ounces of butter into a pound of flour, and work it to a 



Itressing for Tiirheyx. 



177 



smooth, stiff paste, witli a beaten egi,' ami a little hike 
warm water. 

VENISON PASTV TO KKEP FOR SOMK TIMK. 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Cut the meat of a bi-east or shoulder of venison into 
pieces two inches square, season these with pepper and 
salt, addin;^^ if liked, a small pinch of (^rated nutmeg ; 
|>iit them, fat and lean together, into a leaking dish, place 
a good slice of butter upon th<,'m and cover the dish with 
a coarse j)aste of flour and water. Bake the pasty in a 
moderately heated oven for a couple of hours and keep it 
in a cool, dry jilace. When wanted, remove the coarse 
crust, line the edges and sides of the tlish with good pas- 
try, pour in a small (juaivtity of good gravy, cover with 
pastry, and l)ake in a good oven till the pastry is firm. 
Time to bake the pasty about an hour. 

WFIOLKSOMKNESS OF VKXISON. 

Cassell's HouKclto/d Guide. 

Venison is less nutritive than beef, but is more easily 
iligosted. Indeed venison, if kept for some time, is one 
of the most easily dijjjested articles of animal food, and 
well fitted for dys|)eptics. When used l)y such persons 
it should be plain roasted, and rathei* underdone, and they 
should eat it without any sweet condiments, using merely 
tahle s;dt. It should be kept for some time to make it 
tendei-, but not so lono- as to beiiin to decay, as is often 
done. 

l)RESSIN<J F(>R TUKKEVS. 

Mi't^s Bunton, Bradford, Po, 

(Alt the crust from a stale loaf of baker's bread, make 
it in tine crumbs, take one egg, a piece of butter the size 
otan egg, one t|uart of oysters, mix ingredients all toge- 
12 



178 



Tlie Canadian Economist. 



ther, and stuff the turkey ; one pint of oy.sters (or as luucli 
as you wish) for gravy, mix a iittle Hour and seasoning 
with it, and send it to table hot. 

DRESSING FOR TURKKYS. 

Mrs. (Captain) Cowley. 

Crumbs of a roll of bread, one handful of sweet horhs, 
lemon thyme and summer savory, quarter of apound of licff 
suet, green parsley and two eggs, peppiT and salt, 

FOR GEESE AND DUCKS. 

Mrs. {Captain) Cowley. 

Crumbs of bread, sage-leaves, four large onions boiled a 
little and chopped up, l)utter and salt, 

. TO BONE A TURKEY OR FOWI,. 

Miss Adons Recipe. 

Cut through the skin and centre of the back, and raise 
the Hesh carefully on either side with the point of a sliarp 
knife until the sockets of the winjjs and thitdis are 
reached. Till a little practice has been gained, it will 
perha|)s be better to bone these joints before proceeding 
further, but after they Jire (jnce detnched from it the 
whole of the body may easily be separated from the Hcsli 
and taken out eutire, only the neckbones and luenv- 
thoughts will then lemain to be removed. The bird thus 
prepared may either be restored to its original foiiu bv 
filling the legs and wings with forcemeat and the body 
with the livers t)f two or three fowls mixed with alternate 
layers of parboiled tongue freed from the rind, fine saus- 
agemeat, or veal forcemeat, or thin slices of the nicest 
bacon, or aught else of good flavour, which will give <a 
marbled appearance to the fowl when it is carved, and 
then be sewn up and trussed as usual ; or the legs and 



CfiHcfs of VeiuKoi). 



170 



wini'" may be drawn inside tlie body und tli'j ljii<' being 
tirst fastened on a table, may he ecnored witli sausage 
meat and the various otlier ingredients ^ye have named, 
so placed that it shall be of equal thickness in every part ; 
then tightly rolled, bound firmly together with a fillet of 
broad tape, wrapped in a thin pudding cloth closely tied 
at l»oth ends and dressed as follows:— Put it into a brais- 
inir-pan, stewpan. or thick iron saucepan, bright in the 
inside and*fitted as nearl}^ as may be to its size, add all 
the chicken bones, a bunch of sweet herbs, two carrots, 
two bay leaves, a large blade of mace, twenty-four white 
peppercorns, and any trimmings oi- bones of undressed 
veal which may be at hand ; cover the whole with good 
ival broth, add salt if needed, and stew it very softly tVom 
an hour and a <(uarter to an hour and a half, let it cool in 
the li(iuor in which it was stewed, and after it is lifted 
out l)oil down the gravy to a jelly ami strain it ; let it be- 
come cold, clear oti* the fat and serve it cut into lai'ge 
dice, or roughed and laid around the fowl which is to be 
served cold. If restored to its form, instead of being rolled 
it must be stewed gently for an houi-, and may then be 
sent to table hot, covered with nnishroom or any other 
;,'ood sauce that may be preferre<l ; cr it may be left until 
the following day and served garnished with the jelly, 
which should be firm ami very clear and well-fiavoured ; 
the liquor in which a calfs foot has been boiled down, 
added to the broth, will give it the necessary degree of 
consistence. 

CUTLETS OF VENISON. 

Warnes Krcry-dau Cookeri/. 

A few lardoons, a sprig of thyme and parsley, two car- 
rots, one onion, a little glaze, one gill of gravy ; cut the 
venison into nice shapes and lard each cutlet, lay them in 
a stewpan with the herbs and the vegetables sliced. When 
they are dressed, glaze them and serve them with sauce 
piquante. 



ISO 



TIte Canadian EeonnmiAt. 



SCOTCH \V«)(jn(.'OCK. 

7^/>vs. (Senator) McFarlaney Pldou. 

A few sliccH buttered toast, lialf a slice to each person, 
andanchovy to each slice. For sauce, (juarterof apint creaii). 
yolks of three eggs beaten well, stir them into the creaiii, 
bring the sauce to the boiling point, but do not let it boil 
(or it will curdle), have ready some hot ])ut4iired toast 
spread with anchovy paste; pour a little of the hot sauce 
on the toast. Serve very hot. 

CRKA.M SAUCE Foil A HA UK. 

Mc Kf nz ies Rece iptf<. 

Run the cream over the venison just before frothing it, 
and catch it in a dish ; boil it up with the yolks of two 
eggs, and some onion and a piece of butter I'olled in Hour 
and salt. Half a pint of cream is the proportion for two 





CHAPTER XII. 
THK TOMATO, 

Aufe'ust ami continues nntil f";«,'' ?"■"' "J'" *"'o" in 
"t'lilyestuemod. Itissii.l . r''^',""' "generally verv 

■I'O STEAM POTATOES. 

;•«■'■'>■. Thin take the ",!;■ ^^ ?""' '^ '^"''^ «»«« throm h 
">'y <vill !„,, t,,,j, ^^[^"^."P. and .serve t),enT .quickly t 

TO BOll, POTATOES, 
jucepan, cover thern with Zhl' .^^" ^"^ ^^'^'" into a 

'^^-'--n,oiKchtu^.s:-rtt:stt^-; 



182 



The Canadian Economwf. 



cold water in, a.s the slower they are boile<l the hettfr. 
When (lone, throw away the water and sprinkle a little 
salt over them. Put them at the side of the fire to dry, 
with the lid of tljc saucepan oti' and then serve them 
([uickly on a napkin. 

TO HOIL I'OTATOKS WITH THKIH SKINS ON. 

Choose tht^ potatoes, as nearly the same size as possihle. 
Wash and scrub them thorouj^ddy clean, put them into a 
saucepan, just cover them with water an<l a little salt. Let 
tyiem hi)\\ and then draw the sauerpan to the side and let 
them simmer slowly until tender and sufficiently done 
which may be ascertained by trying theui with a fork. 
Then drain the wa^er from them, raise the lid, and let 
them dry by the side of the fire. Peel them carefully 
an<l (juickly, and serve them, in a very hot vegetable dish, 
with or without a na})kin. 

TO MASH POTATOES. 

WdVifcs Krerij-duij Cuolrri/. 

Potatoes ; a piece of butter; a little milk and salt. Olil 
potatoes, wlien unfit for boiling, n»ay be served masheil. 
Cut out all injperfections. Take ofi'all the skin and lay 
them in cold water for an hour ; then put them into an 
iron saucepan, with a teaspoonful of salt, cover them with 
water, and let them boil half an hour, urde.ss they aiv 
large, when three-((uarters of an hour will be retiuiifd 
When done drain the water thoroughly from them, j)iit 
them into a wooden bowl or moitar, and nuish them 
with a potato pestle. Melt a piece of butter the size of a 
large eg^^f with a little milk. Mix it with the niasbcil 
potatoes until it is thoroughly incorporated, and they are 
become a smooth mash, taking caie the potatoes are not 
too wet. Then put the mash into a dish, smooth it neatly 
with a knife, and serve. Or it might Vje greatly irn[)rove(l 
by browning them in the oven. Or yon may rub them 



To Broil Potatoes. 



183 



throiif^h a course sieve and hrown them with a salamnnder, 
without stn(K)thiiij( tlieni over. 

TO BOIL NEW POTATOKS. 

WarneH Every-divj Cooing. 

St rape the skins from new potatoes and lay them in 
cold water for an hour or two ; then put them into an 
iron saucepan and cover them with water ; cover them 
over and let them boil for half an hour. Try one ; if not 
(juitf done cover them for a few minutes longer. Then 
(Iraiii the water off; let them stand for a couple of 
ininutes over the fire to dry, and send them to table plain; 
or yoM may pour a little melted butter over them. 

riilED POTATOES. 

Warnes Erevy-daij Coohvtj. 

Boil some potatoes in their skins ; when cold ))eel them 
and cut them in slices a quarter of an inch thick, and fr^' 
them in butter or beef dripping, a nice delicate brown. 
When done, take them out with a slice to drain any 
!,'rease from them, and serve pilcnl high on a dish ; or they 
may be choj)j)e(l up small, seasoned with a little pepper 
and salt, and fried lightly in butter, turning them .several 
tiines that they may be nicely browned. Serve in a 
covered dish. 

TO BROIL POTATOES. 

Waruei^ Everij-day Cookery. 

Eight or nine potatoes, a little fioui-, butter, pepper, 
and salt. Cut some coid- boiled potatoes lengthwise, 
one -fourth of an inch thick, dip each piece in Hour, and 
lay them on a gridiron over a clear fire. When both 
sides are nicely browned, put them on a hot dish with a 
piece of butter over them, and a little pepper and salt, 
S^^rvo them np hot, 



1S4 



The Canadian Economist. 



lUKED POTATOES. 

WariiCfi Every-day Cookery. 

Take as many large and eqnally-sized potatoes as you 
wish, wasli them y)erfeetly clean in two or three chanj^'es 
of water ; then wipe them dry, and put them in a (|uit'k 
oven for one hour. Serve them on a napkin with cold 
butter, and pepper and salt separately. 

POTATOES A LA MAITRE D'hOTEL. 

Warnef< Erery-day Cookery. 

Some boiled potatoes, a little melted butter, pe})per, salt, 
a sprig of parsley, a few cliivjs, and the juice of lialfa 
lemon. Take some potatoes boiled and peeled ; wlioii 
nearly cold, cut them into rather thick slices, ''nd put 
them into a stewpan with a little melted butter, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, a sprig of pai'sley, a few chives chopped 
fine, and the juice of half a lemon. When very hot, put 
them into a dish, and serve with the sa'i.ce over then*. 

M.\SHED CAUKOTS. 

WarneH Every-ddy Cookery. 

Some carrots, buttei-, pepper and salt. Scrape otf all 
the skin, wash them well, and boil them tender in a stew- 
pan of boiling water. Then take them up with a skim- 
mer. Mash them smooth, adil a piece of buttei', anil sen- 
son with nepper and salt. Place them in the centie of ii 
dish, piled up, and marked over with a knife. Scnv 
with boiled or roasted meat. 

TO IJOIL ASPARAGUS. 

Warner Every -day Cookery. 

One tabler^poonful of salt to half a gallon of water. 
Scra})e very clean all the white part of the stalks of the 
asparagus, and throw them into cold spring water; tie 



Stetved Vegetable Morroiu. 



185 



them up in bundles, cut the root ends even, and put them 
into a piece of muslin to preserve the tops. Have a wide 
stowjian of spring water with the ahove proportion of 
salt, and when it boils lay in the asparagus, and boil it 
quickly Tor fifteen minutes, or until it is tender. Have 
a thin slice from a lonf nicely toasted, cut it in s([U{ire 
pieces, dip them in the asparagus water, and put them in 
tlic dish. Take u[) the asparagus, lay it on the toast 
with the white end outwards, and the ])oints meeting in 
the centre. Serve with nielted butter in a tureen. 

TUUNiPs IN wiiiTi': s.vrcE. 

Wnvne^H Evevij-da)/ Cookery. 

Some turnips, a large cu[)f \\ of white sauce, and a little 
butter. Wash and peel as mai^y nice; white turnips as 
you recpiire for a dish, peel and cut them into forms as 
tor Jerusalem artichokes, and boil them tendei- in a sauce- 
])an of water, with a piece of butt ;r the size of a large 
walnut. When done, drain them in a colander, and place 
them on your dish neatly. Pour over them some white 
sauce, and serve them hot. 

BOILED VK(;ETa1{LE maukow. 

W(n'iies hhri'if-day Cool'ery, 

Some uianows, one tablespoonful of salt to half a gal- 
lon of watei'. Peel the marrows, and put them into a 
siiicepan of boiling water and salt. When tender, take 
tliciii (Mit, cut them into quartei-s, if large, if not, halve 
tlicni. Serve them in a vegetal>le dish on toast, with a 
(uiven of melted butter sent to table v.ith them. 

STEWED VEGETABLE MARKOW. 

Warnei* Evei'ij-day Cooh-ei'jj. 

Si.\ or eight vegetable marrows, juice of half a lemon, 
one ounce of butter or fat bacon, a little salt. Take ort' 



18G 



The Canadian Economist. 



all the skin of the marrows, put them into a stewpan 
with water, a little salt, the juice of half a lemon, and an 
ounce of butter or fat bacon. Let them stew gently till 
quite tender, and serve them up with a rich Dutch sauce 
or any other you please that is pirjuant. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Warnes Evevy-day Cookery. 

Four or five pai-snips, a teaspoonful of flour, one ft^g, 
some butter or beef dripping. Boil four or five parsnips 
until tender, take ott' the skins and mash them very fine, 
a<ltl to them a teaspoonful of fioui', one ii^^^ well bt-aten, 
and a seasoning of salt. Make the mixture into small 
cakes with a spoon, and fry them on both sides a delicate 
brown in boiling butter or beef dripping. When both 
sides are done, serve them up very hot on a napkin or 
hot dish, according to your taste. These resemble very 
much the salsify or oyster plant, and will generally be 
preferred. 

SWEET POTATO PONE. 

il/rN. Doinddnon, Mobile. 

Wash and grate the jtotatoes with their skins on, then 
to three cu])sful of grated jjotatoes })ut one cupful of ii(/ur, 
one of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of lard, molasses 
enough to make it spread smoothly, fiavour with essence of 
lemon to taste. To be eatisn witlr meats. 



CELERY WITH (REAM. 

Warners Erery-day Cookery. 

Three or four heads of celery, yolks of four eggs, half a 
pint of cream, a little salt and grated nutmeg. Cut tlie 
white part of three or four heads of celery into lengths of 
three or four inches long, boil it until quite tender, anil 
strain it from the water, beat the yolks of four eggs and 



Greens. 



1«7 



strain thoin into the creain, season with a little salt and 
fiated nutmeg ; put it into the stewpan with the celery, 
set it over a stove until it boils and is of a j)roper thiek- 
iK's.s jind then send it to table on toasted bread. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Potatoes properly fried may occasionally I)e served with 
the clutp or cutlet, and are more digestible and nourishing 
than when plainly boiled. This remark, however, applies 
(•nly to potatoes fried in perfection and served immediately 
they are done, as they lose their crispness by standing. 
Peel tine kidney potatoes and slice them as thin as you 
can, nnless they are preferre<l thicker ; as you do the chips 
throw them into cold water as this frees them from 
tlie potato tlour which has a tendency U) prevent success- 
ful frying. Drain and lay them hi a cloth to dry, put 
them into a wire basket, fry in boiling fat, and when the 
chips are brown, put them between |)aper in the oven for 
a minute, turn them on to a dish, sprinkle with salt and 
serve. The greatest care niust be taken to have the fat 
the rijjjht temperature for frying th(^ potatoes, as other- 
wise they will be sodden with grease. 

GREENS. 

Cooktry for Jai'tdids. 

lli'iieral directions for boiling these can only be given. 
.Vs there are so many kinds varying also in age and quality, 
and therefore taking more or less time to cook, it is 
(ustoinary to put soda in the water in which greens are 
hdileil, in order to preserve their colour, but this practice 
ik'prives them of the properties which render them valu- 
ahle as an article of diet. When fresh, the colour sliould 
I'c preserved without ditHcult}^ and as oidy perfectly fresh 
^ifreen vegetal>les must be given to invalids, soda will not 



188 



The Canadian Economist. 



be necessary. Having carefully picked the greens, put 
them for a few minutes in tepid water, wash them 
thoroughly, drain, and throw them into a large saucepan 
of fast boiling water, sliglitly salted, keep the lid off the 
saucepan, and as soon as tlie greens are tender strain them 
through a colander. Have ready a tin vegetable pressor, 
heated by pouring over it the water from the greens, press 
them into it, taking care tliat they become perfectly dry. 
Put them into a hot dish and serve. 



FRENCH BEANS. 

Cookery for Inraluls. 

These should be very small and young in ordei- that 
they may be cooked whole. Pick, throw them into fast 
boiling water, and boil in an uncovered stewpan until 
tendei'. They can be served plain, or when drained, be 
put into a stewpan in \n liich a small piece ot butter has 
been dissolved and a squeeze of lemon juice added. Toss 
them about over the fire for about four miimtes and they 
will be leady. 

To dress scarlet runners — wash them before slicing, do 
not cut the'u into thin strips, but divide each bean into 
three or four pieces. When cut so fine beans lose all their 
flavour. Do not again wash the beans, boil tliern as 
directed for Fi-ench l>eans. 



ONIONS. 

Cooke I 'ij for In val Ul{<. 

The value of onions in many cases of illness is not wtH 
understood ; whenever the Doctor allows them they shoulJ 
be freely used. One caution is, however, necessary, onions 
recpiire to be most thoroughly cooked, and being so, sel- 
dom disagree with the most delicate stomach. Put the 
onions to boil in plenty of water with a little salt, in halt 
an hour put away the fiist water and put fresl). betthi 



Tomato Sauce. 



180 



eens, put 
,sh them 
saucepan 
id otf the 
rain them 
le pressor, 
.'.ens, press 
t'ectly dry. 



cn'dcr that 
111 into fast 
wpan until 

drained, be 
; uutterhas 
ildeil Toss 
es and they 

[i slicing, do 
1 bean into 

[ose all their 
)il tliein as 



is not well 

[they should 

lsary,<'nion^ 

ng so, sel- 

1. Put the 

salt, in balf 

h. l.ettb'' 



onions boil sh)»'ly for tliroo lioiirs, or until so tender llioy 
can be pierced with a straw, then drain away tlie water, 
put a small pieee of butter into the saucepan, and toss the 
onions in it over the tire for five minutes. Serve eitlior 
with or without the butter according to the taste of the 
patient. 

STKWEl) WATER-CUKSS. 

Cool'eru for InvalULs. 

Well wash and pick the cress, put them into boiling 
water witli a little salt, and boil them for ten minutes. 
Dirtin as dry as possible and niince them, then put them 
hack irito the stewpan with a spoonful of gravy and stew 
till tender. When ready to serve add a few drops of lemon 
juice. 

STEWED ENDIVE. 

Cookevij for In vallds. 

Choose a fine white head, wash, pick and pour boiling 
water over, let lie for ten minutes, then squeese perfectly 
dry, choj) and put it into a stesvpan with a teaspoonful 
of salt and a cupful of white broth or milk. Having 
stewed the endive until tender, add enough potato fi<jur to 
make the sauce thick, and when ready to serve stir in a 
little lemon juice. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cooker y for Invalids. 

Choose ripe, perfectly sound tomatoes, break them into 
small i)ieces, put them in a stewpan with a very small bit 
of butter or a spoonful of gravy, salt and if allowed, pef)- 
per. Let them simmer gently for three-(iuarters of an 
hour, then rub through a sieve, taking care that none of 
the seeds get into the purde, which put back into the stew - 
pan, and stir over the tire until it is as thick as good apple 
sauce. 



19Q 



r/t 



The Cdiiadlan Economist. 



SEA KALK. ^ 

Coohery for Inval'uh. 

Trim the kale neatly, brush it to free it from dust, 
then rinse it in t(?pi(l water, tie into a small bundle and 
boil for al)out twenty minutes in sufficient salte<l water 
to cover it. When done drain the kale pei'fectly di-^" and 
serve on toast. 

VEGKTAIUJ-: PL^lEK. 

Cookei'u for Jncalids. 

The method of making' vegetable purees is in all eases 
the same. Boil the vegetable until tender, rub it throu'di 
a wire seive, and when this process is completed, pur the 
purde with a small (juantity of butter, stock, milk, cream. 
«fcc., into a stew pan, stir over the fire until it be 'onies 
thick. 

ASPARAGUS STKWKD. 

M'l'S.s Bdrhani Grci(j, SoiUk Gconjelowit. 

Cut the oreen part of a bunch of asparagus in iiicli ur 
half-inch lengths; put it into a stewpan and let it boil 
fast for fifteen minutes, then pour very nearly all the water 
off; work a tablespoont'ul of butter with a teaspoon ful (tf 
flour, then stir them into the asparagus Add peppar and 
salt to taste. 

CREAMING POTATOES. 

Home Messeiujer. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes very thin, have ready a sauce- 
pan of boiling milk, in which place the potatoes with salt, 
a good sized piece of butter, and while boiling thicken 
•with flour, mixed with water, stirring until delicate ami 
creamy — ^when ready dish for the table. The goodness of 
this dish depends much upon catering just when ready; 
ten minutes being sufficient time to prepare it. 



Spring Vegetables and How to Cook them. 101 



(lust, 
L' and 
water 
\- and 



hroiv^li 
p\it the 
, cream. 
:)ei!Oines 



incli or 

bt it l)oil 

[le watev 

,011 fill of 

)p3V au'l 



la sauce- 
ni]\ salt, 
thicken 
•ate ami 
(dness of 
li ready; 



POTATO I'UFF. 

Home Messenger. 

Two cups cold mnslied potatoes, three tahlespoonsful of 
ineittMl i)utter, beaten to a cream; add two well beaten 
eggs, one cupful of cream or milk ; pour in a deep dish and 
bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Nr.o. Ro.'^s, O.L.r. 

Two cuj)sful of cold mashed potatoes, stir into it two 
tiildespoonsful of buttei-, beaten to a cream. Add two well 
beaten eggs and a cupful of milk, .salting to taste. Beat 
all well together, pour into a deep dish and bake until 
nicely l)rowned. 

OYSTKU PLANT. 

Home McKsengey. 

Scrape the roots, droj)ping each into cold water as so(jii 
a.s cleaned. Exposure to the air blackens them. C'ut in 
pieces an inch long, put into a saucepan with hot water 
to cover them and stew till tender, throw off the water 
and add soup, stock or milk enough to cover them. Stew 
ten minutes after this begins to boil, put in a great lump 
of butter cut into bits and rolled in Hour. Boil up once 
and serve. 

SPRING VEGETABLKS AND HOW TO COOK THEM 

Home Messenger. 

In the spring, salsify or oyster plant is a pleasant change 

from boiled turnips and cabbage, and can be prepared in 

various ways. First way: grate a bunch or two of salsify 

[as vou would horse-radish, add a raw ejj^o' l)eaten, and a 

[little l)read-cruinbs or flour, and fry in a frying-pan, as 

you would oysters. Parsnips prepared in this way are 



102 



TJie Canadian Economist. 



extremely nice. Second way, cut your salsify into round 
lozen<;es, parboil, throw it into a frying-pan with a little 
l)utter, and heat through, but do not brown, turn over 
this enough soup-stock or the boilings frotn steak or other 
bones to cover it ; thicken with a little flour and butter 
braided together, add })ep[)(!r and salt and you will have 
a nice dish. 

COOKING CARROTS. 

Ho me Mcme i uje t : 

Cut the carrots in small pieces and stew in a little water 
till tender ; pour ott' what water is left ; put in milk 
enough to niak(^ a sauce, and a good lump of butter lolkd 
in flour; boil up again all togetlier, having added salt ami 
pepper to tastt'. (,'elery is excellent prepared in the .saiiu' 
way. 

RADISHES. 

Boiuc Mcmeivjer. 

Prof. Blot says cut off the root atid all the leaves, but 
the centre one or st'dk. This should always be left on 
and eaten, as it contains an element which assists in the 
digestion of tlie radish. Split the radish up into stems 
and leave whole at the top ; serve in fresh ice water. 

TO STEW Cx^BHAOE. 

Home Mexsenijer. 

Parboil in milk and water and drain it. Then sliieJ 
it, put it into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, sj 
small cupful of cream and seasoning, and stew tender. 

ESCALOPE!) TOMATOES. 

Home McHeenger. 

Peel and cut across the tomato in slices about a quartern 
an inch thick, lay layers of tomato, then sprinklings 



Cucambe 



r>'. 



IM.-i 



round 
little 
II over 
r other 
\)Uttev 
11 liave 



,le watev 
in iniik 
,er rolled 
: salt anti 
the saw*' 



avcs, but 
30 Hton 
ists in tlie 

ito steui> 
water. 



butter, 
tenelor. 



|a quartet? 
U'inkling 



tint; hread-cruinhs soasonorl witli pepper and salt, tlien bits 
of Idittcr; repeat and end with l>read-cruinl).s and butter ; 
bake an hour and a quarter, 

VMC, PLANT. 

Home Messeuijirr. 

Slice the egg-plant about halt' an inch thick, parl>oil in 
salt and water for about a (piarter of an liour, then take 
out and fry in part butter and part lard, These are all 
nice also, when each slice is di[)[)(;d in beaten eggs and 
ltread-«"nnnbs and then fried. 

UFtUSSEj/.S Sl'HOl'TS. 

Inca/id's Cook. 

Cut off any discolouied leaves, pare the stems even, and 
mash the sprouts well. Put them into a saucepan of boil- 
in;;- water properly salted, k('(;p the cover off, and boil 
tlieiii (piickly for about ten minutes, or till nearly done. 
riicn pour off the water, put into the saucepan a slice of 
fresh butter cut into bits, a tablespoonful of gravy 
I'veal is the best), a little salt and pepper, and a little 
lemon-juice i^ liked. Shake the })an gently over the Hre 
till tlio hutoor is nudted and the other ingredients tlior- 
oiii^'lily mixed with the sprouts, then serve thoin up very 
hot. If you can be very (puck, so as not to let the sprouts 
i;et cold, they look best pyramid in the dish. 

CUClJ.MMKPvS. 

Invaliils Cool-. 

Take large cucuiid)ers which are not seeded; pjire and 

slicL) them about as thick as' half a crown, slice two onions 

[therein, lay them on a cloth and dry them, sh.ike over 

them a little tlour and fry them of a light brown in but- 

[ter. Pour off all the fat, and put in some g>ol gravy, 

Iseasoned well with pep[)er and salt. When it boils, roll 

13 



194 



The Canadian Econornwt. 



some butter and flour together and put to it. Keep shak- 
ing the pan till the gravy is of a proper thickness, and 
the cucumbers and onions well covered with it, and then 
serve it very hot. 

SEA. KALE. 

Coolrrj/ M<((h eaay. 

Sea Kale is to be dressed exactly in the same manner 
as asparagus ; it must be served up on toast, with melted 
butter. It is not good unless quite fi'esh, which you will 
know by its being crisp and a bright colour on the edge 
of the leaves. 



WINDSOK LONG PODS OR BROAD BEANS. 

Coohing Made Easy. 

They must be shelled into a pan of clear water, and he 
boiled in plenty of water, with salt first dissolved in it, 
and skimmed, and they should be served up under boiled 
bacon or pickled pork garnished with parsley boiled and 
minced, and parsley and butter sauces. 

STEWED ONIONS, 

Cooking Made Easnj. 

Take five or six large Si)ani8h onions, or a dozen middle 
sized ones, scald. and peel them, and cut out the roots, put 
them into a stewpan, pour over them good broth, enough 
to cover them, and let them simmer slowly, closely cov- 
ered, for about two hours. Salt them t^ your taste. 
Serve them u[) with the broth they were stewed in poinvd 
over them. 

TO BOIL POTATOES. 

Cooking Made Easy. 

Each boiling of potatoes should be as much as possible 
of the same size. Wash them very clean with a briisli 



Bcvfs. 



195 



iiiitl |>lt;nty of water, and wash out the dirt from the eyes 
particularly, without paring or scraping tliem ; they will 
ro(|uire a good washing or else they will have an earthy 
taste. When you boil them, put them into a pot with 
coM water, just enougli to eovci- them, with half a hand- 
ful of salt. If they arc large throw in a cup of cold 
water when they hi'gin to boil, and repeat it now and 
then till they are boiled to the heart, which will take 
tVoin li;ilf an hour to an hour and a (piarter, according 
to tlieir size ; but if they are small ones, they will not 
take so long a time, nor recpiire any cold water to stop 
their boiling ; but the slower they are cooked the better, 
|)r()vi(led the}' are kept sinuuci-ing, which is quite sutti- 
cii'iit. When they are soft enough to admit the fork 
tasily to the heart of them, they are done. Then pour 
otf the water and put the pot once more over the fire 
without the cover for a minute or two, but not longer, 
which makes them dry and mealy, and turn them (ini, 
pull otf the skins and serve them up. 

Tl'KNIPS. 

Economlraf Cook Book. 

Pare and (piaiter the turnips and put them in a pot of 
clear water, or with fresh meat. Boil them half an hour; 
ilrain and season them with butttsr, ])epper and salt. 
Wash them. 

IJKETS. 

Econowiail Cook Bonk. 

Wash the beets ; cut the tops otf' and put them in boil- 
ing water; the early turnip beet is best for summer and 
will hoil in less than an hour ; the lony winter beet should 
i»e hoiled two hours, — when they are tlone, drop them in 
cold water for a minute ; peel and slice them, season with 
butter, pepper and salt ; send them hot to table. 

To pickle beets, put them in a jar after they have been 



im 



The Canadian Economist. 



boiled ; fill it up with weak vinegar ; put in suit, cayenne 
and black peppcu*. 



KfJO 



NT. 



Economicai Cook Booh. 

Cut it in thin slices, let it soak in salt water (or just 
salt between the slices) for several hours, \Vij)(3 the 
pieces dry, pepper thetn, dip ench piece in an egg wliich 
has l)een beaten a little, then dip theni in gr<ite«l crackers. 
fry them in dripping, or halt" an ounce lard and halfoiinoc 
butter. 

VKOKTAHLES. 

Ti'ue Guide to Hovsel'eei)hi(f. 

Parsnips should l)e kep down cellar, covere;! up in 
sand, entirely excluded fr he aii'. They are good onlv 
ii^ the spring. Cabbage pu nto a hole into the ground 
will keep well during the winter, and be hard, fresh, and 
sweet, in the spring. Many fanners keep potatoes in the 
same way. Onions should be kept very dry, and never 
carried into the cellar, except in severe weathei-, wheii 
there is danger of their freezing. By no means let them 
be in the cellar after March, tliey will sprout and spoil, 
Potatoes should likewise be carefully looked to in tin 
spring and the sprouts broken off. The cellar is the best 
place for them, because they are injured by wilting, but 
sprout them carefully, if you want to keep them, 'fliey 
never sprout l)ut three times, therefore, after you have 
sprouted them three times, they will troul)le you no more. 
Squashes should never be kept down cellar when it is pos- 
sible to prevent it. Dam|mess injures them. If intense 
cold makes it necessary to keep them there for a while, ^ der and 
bring them up as soon as possible and keep them insouie 
warm dry place. Cabbages need to be boiled an hour; 
beets an hour and a half ; the lower part of a squash .shouM 
be boiled half an hour ; the neck pieces fifteen or twenty 
minutes longer ; parsnips should boil an hour or an hour 



and 
fifti'< 
hour 
ones 
off a 
cook 
upon 
may I 
the se 
off it: 
potatc 
and w 
steam 
don't s 
is to ci 
over th 
they ai 
when Ij 
whih' I) 
<lm<r,s, t 
(ireen ) 
ticc'onh'i 
"<h()uld 
in<r to^a 
Cording 
tion; ff 

"|> «gaii| 

to 



ps slio 
or foui- il 
lx)il.s, if 
pea,s ha VI 



^hile th! 
I all 

llfy 



suniii 
our \\l 

|^u.soa l( 
^kinnerl 



Vefje.tahles. 



197 



;l up ii> 

)0(1 onl} 

; grountl 

esh, an<l 

BS in tilt' 

1(1 never 

-r, when 

let them 

U(\ spoil 

,0 in the 

tl\e best 

iting, i'Ut 

in. They 
on have 
no more, 
it is pos- 
i intense 
,r a while. 
11 in souie 
an hour;' 
bsh shouU 
i- twe-nty 
,r an hoiu] 



and a ({uarter, according to size; now potatoes should boil 
fifteen or twenty ininiiteH ; three-quarters of an hour, or an 
hour is not too much for hirgo ohl potiitoea ; common sized 
ones half an hour. In the spring it is a good plan to cut 
ort'a slice from the seed end of the potatoes before you 
cook them, the seed entl is opposite to that which grew 
\\\)()\\ tlie vine, the place where the vine was broken off', 
may l»e easily distinguished. By a provision of nature. 
the se(Hl end becomes watery in the spring, and unless cut 
off it is apt to injure the potato. If you wish to have 
potatoes mealy do not let them stop boiling for an instant ; 
and when they are done, turn the water off" and let them 
steam for ten or twelve minutes over the fire ; see they 
don't stay long enough to burn the kettle. Another way 
is to cut oft' all the skin and put them in pans to be cooked 
over the stove by steam. Those who have eat them say 
they are mealy and white, looking like large snowballs 
when lirought upon the table. Potatoes boiled and ma.shed 
while hot are good to use in making short cakes and pud- 
dings, they .save floui-, and less shortening is necessary. 
(ireen peas .should be boiled from twenty to forty minutes, 
according to their age ; string V)eans the same. Corn 
should be boiled from twenty to forty minutes, accord- 
ing to«age. Dandelion half an hour or three-quarters, ac- 
cording to age. Dandelions are nuich improved by cultiva- 
tion ; if cut off without injuring the root, they will sj)ring 
up again fresh and tender till late in the season. Beet 
top.s .should be boiled twenty minutes, and spinach three 
or four minutes. Put in no m-een vegetables till the water 
boils, if you would keep all their sweetnes.s. When green 
peas have become old and yellow, they may be made ten- 
der and green by sprinkling in a pinch or two of pearlash 
while they are boiling. Pearlash has the same effect upon 
all summer vegetables, rendered tough by being too old. 
If your well water is very hard, it is always an advantage 
to use a little pearlash in cooking. Tomatoes should be 
'^kinned by pouring boiling water over thcni. After they 



198 



The Canadian Economist. 



are skinned, they .should be stewed half an liour, in tin, 
with a little salt and a small bit of butter and a spoonful 
of water to keep them from burning. This is a delicious 
vegetable. It is easily cultivated, and yields a most 
abundant crop. Some people pluck tiiem green and |)ickle 
them. The best sort of catsup is inade from tomatoes. 
The vegetables ? hould be scjueezed n\) in the hand, salt put 
to them and set by for twenty-four hours. After bcinu' 
passed through a sieve, cloves, allspice, pepper, mace, gar- 
lic, and whole mustard-seed should be added. It should 
l)e boiled down one-third, and bottled after it is cool. No 
liquid is necessaiy, as the tomatoes are very juicy. A 
good deal of salt and s))ice is necessary to keep catsu]) 
well. It is delicious with roast meat ; and a cupful acMs 
much to the richness of soup and chowder. The garlic- 
should be taken out before it is bottled. Celery should be 
kept in the cellav, the roots covered with tan, to keep them 
moist. Green scpiashes that are turning yellow, and striped 
squashes are more uniformly sweet and mealy than anv 
other kind. If the tops of leltuce be cut off, when it is 
becoming too old for use, it will grow up again fresh and 
tender, and may thus be kept good through the suniiiier. 
It is a good plan to boil onions in milk and water; it 
diminishes the strong taste of that vesretable. U is an 
excellent way of serving up onions, to cho[) them after 
they are boiled, and ])ut tiiem in a stewpan, with a littlf 
milk, butter, salt and pepper, and let them stew about 
fifteen minutes. This gives them a fine flavour and they 
Can be s( rved up very hot. 

LIMA AND liUTTEK BEANS. 

Common Sense in the Household, 

Shell into cold water ; let them lie awhile ; put into a 
poL with plenty of boiling water and a little salt, and 
cook fast imtil tender. Large ones sometimes require 
nearly an hour's boiling. The average time is forty niin- 



Steu'ed Pwimpkin. 



199 



utos. 
taste. 



Drain and butter well when dished, peppering to 

KIDNEY AND OTHER SMALL BEANS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Shell into cold water and cook in boiling until tender 
A small piece of fat bacon boiled with them is an advan- 
tage to nearly all. If you do this, do not salt them. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Wash, but do not touch with a knife before they are 
])oiIed. If cut while raw they bleed themselves in the 
hot water. Boil until tender — if full-grown at least two 
hours. When done, rub off the skins, slice round if large, 
split if young, and butter well in the dish, salt and pep- 
per to tasle. A nice way is to slice them upon a hot dish, 
mix a great spoonful of melted butter with four or five 
of vinegar, pepper and salt, heat to boiling and pour over 
the beets. 

BOILED SEA KALE. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Tie up in bunches, when you have picked it over 
carefully, and lay in cr>ld water for an hour. Put into 
!jalte<l boiling water and cook for twenty or thirty min- 
utes until tender. Lay some slices of buttered toast in 
the bottom of a dish, clip the threads binding the stems 
of the sea kale, and pile upon the toast, buttering it abun- 
flantly. Or, 3'ou can send around with a boat of drawn 
mtter. • 

STEWED PUMPKIN. 

Cominon Sense in the Household. 

Cut in two, extract the seed, slice and pare. Cover 
with cold water for ^n hour ; put over the fire in a |)ot of 



200 



Thi Canadian Economist. 



boiling water and stew gently, stirring often, until it breaks 
to pieces. Drain and S(|ueeze, run through a collander, 
then return to the saucepan, with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, pepp(3r and salt to taste. Stir rapidly from tlio bot- 
tom until very hot, then dish, rounding into a mound 
with dabs of pepper on the top. 

stp:wki) mushrooms. 

Common Sense in the Hoasehold. 

Choose button mushrooms of uniform size. Wipe, 
clean and white with a wet flannel cloth, and cut ort'thn 
stalks. Put into a porcelain saucepan, cover with cokl 
water, and stew very gently fifteen minutes. Salt td 
taste ; add a tablespoonful of butter, divided into l)its and 
rolled in flour. Boil three or four minutes, stir in three 
tablespoonsful of cream, whipped up with an agg, stir two 
minutes without letting it boil, and serve. Or, rub them 
white, stew in water ten minutes ; strain partially and 
cover with as much warm milk as you have poured off 
water; stew five minutes in this. Halt, pepper and add 
some veal or chicken <»ravy or drawn l)UtLer. Thicken 
with Hour, wet in cold milk, and a beaten vgg. 

liAKED BKANS. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

After washing them well, and taking out any bad ones 
Soak about a ))int of beans (white) in water, put a piece 
of soda in the water, and let them st(M.'j> all night, hi 
the morning i)ut in a snucepan and let them boil slowly 
for two hours. About three-<iuarter.s^f an hour before 
dinner, take three teacupsful of milk, a piece of butter 
about the size of a walnut, rub the butter and flour to- 
gether, add them to the milk with pepper, salt and sea- 
soning. Have a pudding dish buttered, put in a layer of 
the beans and some of the mixture ovei-, another layer of 



Succatosh. 



201 



beans, and so on, until all are used up, and on the top put 
a layor of bread-crumbs, and above the crumbs a few bits 
of butter. Of course, more milk, butter and tiour can be 
used at discretion. Bake half an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

VEGETABLE MAUROW. 

1000 Domestic Hlntf<. 

Vegetable marrow when young may be fried m butter ; 
when half-grown, plainly boiled or stewed with sauce. 
When boiled and cut into dice it makes an excellent gar- 
nish alternately with dice of young carrots, for boiled 
fowls. 

VALUE OF VE(»ETABLES. 
1000 Doniestk Hlnls. 

What the lime juice is to sailors, so are the potash 
plants — such as, potatoes, turnips, carrots, asj)aragus, cab- 
bage, kd. — to us on land. Without these potash plants, 
we should be liable to scurvy or sin)ilar diseases. Pota- 
toes do not contain so much nuti iment nor so much starch 
as wheat flour or n)any other suV>stances, but they contain 
this potash. If we wei-e to discard potatoes and similar 
plants, and eat nothing but bread, we should undoubtedly 
suffer in our health ; because, though bread contains a 
large ([uantity of nitrogeneous matter, of starch, and of 
phosphates, yet it is deHcient in potash. • 

SUCCATOSH. 

Mrs. Parr, Offaiva. 

This is made from green corn and shelled cranberry 
beans, although you can sui)stitute any other beans, if 
you cannot get cranberry. Take two dozen cobs of corn, 
cut the corn off', and add a pint of the beans shelled; if 
both are young and tender, put to cook together in water 
enough to cover, and cook for an hoin- ; put in about a 



202 



The Canadian Economist. 



quarter of a tablespoonful of butter, salt anrl pepper to 
taste ; stir often to prevent burning, and dish in a deep 
vegetable dish, 

TOMATOES AS A MEDICINE. 

The Presbyterian. 

The tomato is a strong aperient, and has been proved 
to be a wonderfully effective curative agent for liver and 
kidney affections. 

YOUNG POTATOES. 

Holu to Cool- Potatoes in a Hundred Different Ways. 

Wash and skin some young potatoes, boil them quickly 
in a little water, to which is added the juice of a lemon; 
when done, di-ain them from the watei*, and put them mto 
a stewpan with some butter rolled in a small quantity of 
Hour; moisten with uiilk or .>fcock, thicken the sauce with 
the beaten yolk of an agg', season to ta,ste, and when 
quite hot serve. 

POTATOES. 

Hoiv to Cook Potatoes in a Hundred Different Waya. 

Toast some nice slices of bread, divested of crust, ami 
cut of a uniform size of about two inches each way; dip 
them into either ketchup, gravy or milk ; place a good 
dessertspoonful of mashed potatoes on each stew, salt and 
cayenne piq:>per them, and serve hot. 

IRISH STEW. 

How to Cook Potatoes in a Hundred Different Wayi. 

Wash, peel and slice twelve good sized potatoes ; place 
a piece of mutton at the bottom of a stewpan ; sprinkle 
upon it a little shred onion, then put in the potatoes, 
shake them in the stewpan to make them as compact as 
possible, add some pepper and salt, and pour in just 



Irish Stevj. 



203 



enoutjfh water to cover the potatoes ; bake it slowly in an 
oven for about two hours, and serve in a deep dish — the 
meat in the middle and the potatoes placed around it. 
The meat may be cut up, if preferred, and baked in a 
covered tui-een or hash dish, in which the stew may be 
served. 




CHAPTER XIII. 

YEAST BREAD AND BISCUIT. 

The Economical Cook Book. 

ri'lHE staff of life on which we lean for bodily couifort 
_1_ thrice every day, should never be made but of the 
best materials — our health and comfort depending much 
thereupon. Many a confirmed dyspepsia lias been induced 
by the habitual partaking of heavy, sour or ill-baked 
bread : owiufj in some cases to the iijnorance or inditfer- 
ence of the maker and Itaker, in others, from the want of 
the best materials and the use of a poor stove or range, 

HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Mi'K. H. F. Hroimoh, Ottawa. 

Boil a handful of hops half an hour, in three pints of 
water, pour half of it boiling hot through a sieve, on to 
nine spoonsful of flour, mix, and then add the rest of the 
hot water. Add a spoonful of salt, half a cupful of mo- 
lasses, and when blood warm a cupful of yeast. 

YEAST. 

I'he Economical Cook Book. 

Take one handful of good hops put them in a little bag 
in one quart of water to boil. Pare six large potatoes 
and put in the heater. When the latter are soft, [)ass 
them through a colander (moistening the whole with a 
little of the hot water), now squeeze out the bag and re 
turn the pulp made to the water and let the whoje be 



Brown liretul. 



205 



stirrerl and just come to a boil. In this hot state pour it 
on suliicient Hour to make a thinnish batter. When tepid 
add lialf a pint of yeast. Tliis is tit for use in the even- 
inir, if made in the morninor. Put it in a crock with a lid 
in a cool place. 

WHEAT JiRKAD. 

The Economical Cook BookT 

Boil one quart of milk and let it become coolish, tlien 
mix with it tlour enough to make a very stiff batter, add 
lialt'a pint of the above-named yeast, bt^at it very smooth, 
add two tablespoonsful of salt. Let it stand till light, 
then knead it well. Let it rise. Mould and ])ut it in 
pans; stand half an hour. If milk is not convenient, 
water will do. The above quantity makes four medium 
sized loaves. The oven should be very inarm, not very 
hot, and slowly gettincr hotter. 

TO MAKE VKAST ("AKES. 

Mrs. H. F. Bronson, Oitaua. 

When the above yeast is fully risen so that it begins to 
settle down in the [)an, add Indian meal as much as can 
be worked into it and then roll it out with the hands on 
the board, in long rolls like the shape of the rolling-pin, 
then press it down on the board, until the side next the 
board is flat, then as it lies cut it in thin slices, about half 
an inch in thickness, and then withdraw tlie slices a little 
apart, just so that the air can pass between them, taking 
care that they don't fall over, but stand in rows as they 
are cut. Set them in a cool place in the wind but not in 
the sun to dry. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Baldwin, Ottawa, 

One cupful of flour, Graham is best, two cupsful of 
Indian meal, half a cupful of syrup or brown sugar, one 



20G 



The Canadian Economist. 



tcaspoonful of ginfrer, one tcaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in water, a little salt. Stir in sour milk enough to make 
a stiff batter, steam four hours, then l)ake in the oven, loiij^ 
enough to make a crust. 

(iUAlTAM GEMS. 

Mr%R. Blnckhurn, Neiv Edinhnvf/h. 

One ogg, one tahlespoonful of butter, one tal>lespoonfiil 
of sugar, one cupful and a half of milk, one teaspoonful 
of salt, three even teaspoonsful of baking powder, in Clia- 
ham flour, enough to ujake a stiff' Imtter (hot [)ans and hot 
oven). 

FRKXCH ROLLS. 

Mrx. Cruihet, MoutreaJ. 

One teaspoonful of .salt in a quart of flour, sift it, bout 
three eggs, put on(! tahlespoonful of sugar in them, then put 
in the eggs and a small cupful of potato yeast ; make tlu'in 
at eight or nine o'clock in the evening, put them to rise, 
in the mornin": cut out rolls and bake for breakfast. 

(aUHAM BREAD. 

*Miss Douglas, KiiKjsfon. 

Into a pan of boiling water, first stir a little salt, and 
then as much Graham flour as would make a good dougii, 
let it cool somewhat, and then stir three ([uarters of a cup- 
ful of yeast, add a lump of butter and half a teacupful of 
sugar, when sufficiently light, knead, mould into any de- 
sired shape. Rise again and bake. 
^, 

HOT CROSS RUNS. 

Miss Douglas, KiiajHtou. 

Set a sponge as you would for bread, next moining 
beat up two eggs, a piece of butter the size of an e^j^, two 
teaspoonsful of sugar, mix just to keep it from sticking. 



Vienna BoUf*. 



207 



DIET BREAD. 

Miss EUiot'i, Guelph. 

Put three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar into a 
saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of water over a steady 
fire, and stir it till it is dissolved. Beat six eggs with a 
whisk in a pan, when the sugar boils, pour it gently on 
the eggs, keeping it well beat till cold ; then stir it int«^ 
throe-quarters of a pound of fine sifted Hour, have your 
frames papered, till them three parts full with the batter, 
sift sufjar over them and bake in a steadv oven. 



SPANISH BUNS. 

Miss Elliott, Gudph. - 

Two cupsful of sugar, three-quarters of a eupf ul of butter, 
one cupful milk, two good teaspoonsful of allspice, and two 
of cinnamon, five eggs keeping out the whites of two, one 
tables poonful of baking powder, Hour enough to make a 
stiti' batter. When baked spread over with the white of 
egg beaten to a stiff froth, with a little sugar and return 
to the oven for a few minutes with the door open. 

VIENNA KOLLS, 

Mrs. J. H. P. Gibson. 

Take a quart of unsifted flour, add to it two heaping 
teaspoonsful of baking powder, then mix and sift them 
thoroughly together. Take more or less sweet milk as you 
may think necessary to form a dough of usual stiffness, 
according to the flour about three (piarters of a pound, pu^ 
into the milk with a little salt and stir in half of the flour 
with a spoon. Have ready in a bowl a tablespoonful of 
butter or lard, made soft by warming and stirring to a 
cream. Stir this into the batter with the rest of the 
flour, forming the dough which turn out on a board and 
knead sutficiently to make smooth, roll out half an inch 



208 



The Canadian hJconomiat. 



thick and cut with a large round cutter, then fold each 
one over to make a halt* round, wtstting a little between 
folds to make them Hti(.*k together. Place them on buttered 
pans so as not to touch, wash them over On top to give 
them a gloss and then bake immediately in a hot oven, 
about twenty minutes. 

It will do them no harm to let them stand half an hour 
before baking, if it is desired. 

PARKKR HOUSK ItOLLS. 

MvK (1. M. Hvtchimn. 

Two(]uarts of Hour, oiw cupful of yeast, one pint of milk 
(boiled, then cooled to hike warm}, one tablespoouful df 
butter, one tablespoouful of sugar. Leave enough of the 
two quarts of Hour for rolling out — bake as soon as ready. 

POTATO ROLLS. 

Mrs. G. M. Hut (hi son. 

Take one potato at n(K)n and mash, put water enough 
to moisten, and one teaspoonful of (billet's yeast, one tablo- 
spoonful (^f butter, one cupful of sugar, four tablespoonsful 
of milk, two tables|)oonsful of baking-powder, three e«,'gs, 
one large cupful of tiour, butter round tins and bake in a 
quick oven, when cool [mt jelly between the layers. 

TARKEll HOUSK KOLLS. 

il/rs. limit, Boston. 

Rub into two quarts of sifted tloui-, two large spoonsful 
of buttei", and a teaspoonful of salt, one pint of milk 
scalded and two-thirds of a cuj)ful of yeast, half a cupful of 
sugar, make a sponge of them in the middle of the panot 
flour. Let it rise over night. In the morning mix inthf 
remainder of flour, allow it to rise again, and then cut in- 
to biscuits and when light rub a little melted butter over 



Baker's Bread. 



209 



each and bake in a quick oven. This receipt makes 
forty-five rolls. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston. 

Two cupsf 111 of corn-meal, two cupsful of rye-meal, two- 
thirds of a cupful of flour, two teaspoonsful of soda evened 
off, so\n- milk just enough to iK«l<^e it stiff for cake, half a 
cupful of molasses, salt to the taste. Steam four hours. 

ENGLISH BISCUITS. 

Mrs. W. Kennedy, Owen Sound. 

Take three pounds of flour, sift it well, six teaspoonsful 
of i)aking-powder, a little salt, two cupsful of butter (well 
rul)i)e<l ill) or lai'd and butter mixed, two cupsful of cur- 
rants, half a cupful of Carroway seeds. Cut one lemon 
()ee] in thin slices and mix one cu[)ful of sugar. Mix all 
together with milk into a smooth dough (not stifl^, roll out 
once or twice to the thickness of an inch, cut out with a 
round cutter and bake in bread pans, in a moderately hot 
oven. They are very nice for luncheon, tea or breakfast, 
hot or cold. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Miss Sarah Lanahan, Ottawa. 

One cupful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of butter, two 
effgs, one and a half teacupful of milk, two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, three teacupsful of Graham flour. Bake 
in gem pans for fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

baker's bread. 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte, 

Yeast — Boil half an ounce of hops in three pints of 
water for twenty minutes, strain, pour the water upon 
half a pound of flour when lukewarm, add one pi it stale 
14 



210 



The Canadian Eeonomht. 



yeast, keep it moderately waria for twenty-four liouis* 
Boil ten or twelve potatoes, pound them alon^ with lialf 
a |)()und of flour, add one quart of yeast, kee[) it warm for 
eight hours. Heat the oven, add Hve (juarts of cold water 
one fjuart of hot, strain it into the trough with the salt, 
if fresh flour add one n,hd a quarter ounces of salt to one 
(juart of water, if stale, one ounce is suflicient. All(»w it 
to stand for two hours or until the sponge hegins to drop, 
then add one (juart of water and the rest of the salt, work 
it well and allow it to stand from half an hour to an hour 
and a half, according to the heat of the weather, tlien 
give it a good working and put it in the pans until ih> 
oven is ready. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. D. F. McLaren, Portage dit Fort. 

One quarter pound of hops, hoil in a bag and pour on 
to three pounds of flour and half a pound of sugar. Let 
stand for two days, then add three pounds of potatoes, 
and a spoonful of salt. When i-isen enough set in a cool 
place it will keep for three months. 

HOP YEAST. 

Mrs. McQuarrle. 



m 



Take eight potatoes, peel them and put them to boil i 
three quarts of water, boil with them a handful of hop 
tied in a muslin bag. Let it boil until the potatoes arc 
all quite soft, then put them into a wide mouthed jar and 
mash them fine. Add seven tablespoonsful of flour, one- 
half cuj)ful of sugar, one tablespoonful of salt. Pour the 
water in which the [)otatoes have been boiling over the 
mixture, which should have been stirred until very 
smooth; let it stand until lukewarm, then add a teacup- 
ful of good yeast. Let it remain in a warm oven for 
twenty-four hours, then cover close and put in a cool 
place. This yeast will;^keep good for three months. 



Hye Birad. 



211 



POTATO YKAST. 



a 

to 



Mrs. (Rev.) J. M. Maddisfer, ANldon. 

Half a<lozen ;(oo(l sized potatooH peeled and jL^rated, 

hainlfnl of liops sstcopcd in hoiling water, with wliieh lo 

cook tlie potatoes as soon as ^'la ted, for if allowed to stand 

tlit'V will darken, and the yeast will not be as white. 

Willie boilinjij add half a cupful of suj^ar, a handful of salt, 

and when lukewarm a cupful of yeast. Let it rise and 

stir down several times before puttinir awav. Do not fill 
i.1 . : u.. *'.,n 



the ju*,' (piite full. 



lUNS. 



^frs.{l{e,^'.) J. McEiu< n, Tii(jf'i'fto/l. 

One pint of milk scalded, one (puirt of flour, three table 
spoonsful of su<;ar, two tablespoonsful of butter, rubbed 
in the Hour, half a cu[)ful of yeast. When light, roll out 
the dough, cut, spread with butter. Fold over and bake. 

IJKOWN HOI.F.S. 

Mr'<. A. M'/ca/isfci', Kiiif/alon. 

Two quarts and one pint of lnown flour, one small break- 
fast cu])ful of sugar, one small teaspoonful of salt, one 
(|uart and half a pint of milk or warm water, three table- 
spoonsful of yeast, to be put in last. One small table- 
spoonful of the mixture to be dropped in for each roll. 
If for bieakfast set at night ; for tea, in the morning. 
This (|uantity makes about three pans, one dozen in each. 
Oven as for V>read — not to be covered when taken out. 

RYE BREAD. 

Take one small cupful of yeast, six hot boiled potatoes, 
inashed perfectly fine, three pint cupsful of rye flour, two 
tables[)oonsful of brown sugar and one quart of warm 
water. Let this sponge rise over night after being well 
stirred up. Next morning stir (me pint of Indian meal, 



212 



The Canadlati Economist. 



and rye flour enough to knead well. Let it rise a^'ain 
thoroughly, then divide into loaves, put into a warm place 
and let it rise for half an hour. Rye meal prepared like 
Graham flour makes very nice rye gems, when mixed i.p 
with water and a little salt ; but a third of the quantity 
of wheat or Graham, added to the rye, gives them a more 
delicate taste, and it is an improvement to mix the rye 
and wheat meal, and sit't them together through a sieve, 
removing the coarsest part of the br:in, 

RYE BISCUIT. 

Make a dough with cme pint of milk, flour, and yeast, 
and one tablespoonful of melted l»utter, and thre<'of:' suf^ar. 
Stir as stift'as a spoon can make it with the flour. Rise 
it over night, and drop it into gem pans or biscuit tins 
the next moinino-. Bake for li'alf an hour in a hot oven 



RYE ROLLS. 

Take one pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, a little 
salt, a tablespoonful of lard, and three of sugar, and 
stir into it enough rye flour to make a very stitt' bat- 
ter ; then put wheat flour on your hands and take up as 
much as a large snoonful of the dou<xh. and roll it out on 
the board as you do twisted doughnuts ; and when rolled 
long enough, twist it up into a round cake like a jumble, 
and bake «>.i flat tins. A delicious roll for supper. 

iJROWN BREAD. 

(Jne (juart of rye meal, two of Indian meal, and two 
tablespoonsful of molasses ; mix thoroughly with sweet 
milk, let it stand one hour, and then bake in a slow oven, 

WHEATEN BREAD. 

One spoonful of hop yeast, two potatoes boiltMl, ami 
one pint of water. Make a sponge, and when light or 
sutticiently raised, mix hard and let rise, and when it \^ 
light again, mould it over, and bake while light. 



Bread. 



218 



AVOTHER WAY. 

Grate six potatoes, and add one quart of water, put in 
one cupful of hop yeast at night, and in the morning when 
liirlit, add three tahlespooiisful of sugar and Hour, enough 
to f<»nn a dough. Let it rise, and whtn liglit put it in 
tins ; Jet it rise again and bake for half an hour. 

BISCUITS. • 

Take some of the l)read-dough in tlie morning, as much 
as would make a loaf of Vjre.ad, and add one cu|)fid of but- 
ter; mix well, let it rise, and then make into biscuit. Let 
it rise again, and then bake. 

CO UN HRKAD. 

Take one coffee-cupful of sweet milk and the same of sour 
cream, half a cu})ful of sugar, andone teaspoonfulof sahra- 
us, two eggs, and half a cupful of wheat tiour ; thicken to a 



stifi' batter. 



IJREAD. 

Miss M. 

For two oi'dinary sized loaver. take two potatoes, j) irr, 
slice very thin, boil quick until vc.y soft, then mash to a 
tine pulp, and add, little by little, two quaits of boiling 
water, stirring until a starch is formed ; let this cool, and 
thenaddone-third of a cupful of yeast. Thisforms a sponge, 
wliicli should remain in a moderately waiin place for ten 
or twelve h(mrs, or over night, until it Ijecomes very liglit 
and frothy ; if a little sour, no consequence. When the 
sponge is ready, a<ld tiour, and work it until you have 
tornieda stifi", firm mass. The longer and more tirndy 
kneaded, he bettei the bread. Let it rise from a half to 
three-quarters of an hour. Then divide it into pans. Let 
it remain about fifteen minutes. Take care that it does not 
rise too nmch and crack. Put the loaves into a quick 
oven and bake three-quarters of an hour. If the oven is 



214 



The Canadian Economist. 



not hot enough the bread will rise too much and crack ; 
if too hot, it will harden too rapidly, and confine the loaf. 

CORN AND WHEAT liREAD. 

Miss M. 

Stir two tcacupsful of white meal in a pintof hot water 
for each loaf ; tree it o^umps, and let it stand twenty- 
four hours. Boil two or three potatoes, peel and masli in 
a pint of water, which thicken with tiour till it is stiff 
•batter ; then add half a teacupf ul of baker's yeast. Use 
one-third scalded meal, two-thirds tlour. Knead all to- 
gether with a little salt, work it well, and mould in pans 
to rise moderately ; then bake at first in a hot oven. 

IIOMK-.MADE YEAST. 

Miss M. 

A small handful of hops put to boil in a little less than 
a (piart of water (boiling) for a quarter of an hour; strain 
boiling hot on four large spoonsful of tlour. Stir up and 
pour on to a little old yeast and two mashed potatoes 
well beat u[) with a large teaspoonful of sugar. Let it 
stand till it rises and falls ; then keep it well corked. To 
make bread, take a small teacupful and put it into the 
tlour, with a small half-pint of warm water ; stir up till 
the thickness of batter, draw a little tiour over it, let it 
rise till it cracks, then add salt and enough warm water, 
mix well and put into the «lish, ]v.t it rise till it cracks, 
then work it over lightly and put into pans ; let it rise 
half an hour, then bake in a slow oven. 

ItlCE BREAD. 

Mrs. McT(( visit, Ostgoodc. 

One cupful of rice, one and one half pints of Hour, one 
teaspoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two ol 
baking powder, one-half pint of milk. Boil the rice m one 



By^ns. 



215 



pint of water with a pinch of salt in it until the water is 
entirely absorbed, then add the milk. Sift together the 
Hour, sugar, salt and pow^der, which, add to the rice pre- 
paration, let stand till cold. Mix all together smoothly 
and well. Pour into a greased tin and l)ake in a moderate 
oven forty minutes. Protect with paper fifteen minutes, 

POTATO YEAST. 

Mrs. Story, Ottavm. 

One handful of hops boiled in one quart of water with four 
potatoes ; when potatoes are done ])eel and bruise and add 
two handsful of tlour and one tablespoonful of salt, then 
strniu the hop-water upon the ingredients, stirring until 
all lumps are removed ; wlien cold add a little cold yeast 
and jar up. Will be ready for use in two days. 

CJEMS. 

Mrs. Storii, Ottawa. 

Two eggs, two tablespoonsful of butter, two cupsful of 
milk, one tablespoonful sugar, one dessertspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, add enough flour to make a stiff batter. 
Grease the gem pans and heat until very hot and drop 
the l)atter in, and bake in a quick oven. 

YEAST. 

M'ms Staple u, BdltviUe. 

Ton good sized potatoes, peeled, boiled, and mashed fine ; 
then mix with two quarts of boiling water, add a cupful 
of sugar, and when mi Ik- warm a pint of yeast. 

IJUNS. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottaiva. 

One pint of milk, two quarts of flour, one agcr^ two table- 
spoonsful of sugar, one small piece of butter, one-half cup- 



210 



The Canadian Economist. 



ful of yeast. Make into a douf^h and set over night. 
Knead in the morning, set to rise ; knead and form into 
buns and bake. Same recipe does very well for dough nuts. 

BISCLTIT. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Eight cupsful of flour, eight teaspoonsful of baking 
powder, salt, one and a-quarter cupsful of buttermilk. 
Roll and bake. 

HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Mrs. Thomson, Point Fortune, Que. 

Three pints water, two raw potatoes .sliced, two table- 
spoon.sful of hops. Boil all together fifteen minutes, then 
pour through a colander into a [)an and stir in ri(.iir until 
it is the thickness of a thin batter. When well mixed 
add a tablespoonful of ginger and a tablespoonful of sugar 
After this is cool add five tablespoonsful of prepared 
yeast, mix all well together, then put in a jar and set to 
rise. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

• Mix together as for bread, one quart of Graham meal, 
two spoonsful of molassCs, one teaspoonful of lard, two 
spoonsful of wheat flour, one half a cupful of yeast and 
salt. Let it stand all night to rise ; put in mufHn rings, let 
them stand half an hour PAid then bake. 



SCONS. 

3/rs. James Thomson. 

Two pounds of flour, one-quarter pound of butter, one- 
half ounce of cream of taitar, one-half ounce of baking 
soda, and sweet milk enough to mix up in a soft dough. 



Bread Dowjlt Bu7is. 217 

EXCELLENT GERMAN BUNS. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Two pounds of Hour, one-half pound of butter, one-half 
pound of sugar, one-quarter pound of peel, one egg, one 
and one-quarter pints milk, one-tjuarter ounce cream of 
tartar, one-half ounce of baking soda. 

HERMIT lUSCUIT. 

Mrs. {Rev.) David Wardrope, Teesvjafer. 

Two pounds of flour, one-quarter j^ound of butter, four- 
teen ounces of white sugar, two eggs, one ounce of volatile 
salts, and ujilk enough to form a dough. Rub the butter 
into the Hour, then add the pugar, then the eggs well 
beaten, then the sa'''s dis.solved in hot water and allowed 
to cool, then sweet milk to form a pretty tirm dough. 
Roll thin, cut in round cakes, wet the toj)s with milk and 
turn them on to ])ulverized sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 

BISCUIT. 

3Trs. White, Hamilton. 

One quart of Hour, tw^o teaspoonsful of baking powder, 
a little salt ; rul> in a tablespoonful of- butter ; then add 
sufficient milk or water to make a very soft dough ; do 
not knead much ; bake in a very quick oven. 

BREAD DOUGH BUNS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Take a piece of bread-dough, working a little butter 
into it; knead it well; divide it into small bits; knead 
until smooth and round ; let them ri.se ; when light knead 
them again ; dip them in melted butter to keep them 
from sticking; when half done wet them over with milk, 
and dust sugar over them : then bake quickly ; are not 



218 



The Canadian Economist 



nice overdone ; part of them may be rolled out and 
folded over with a raisin in the folds. If an eg^ is adiied 
with the butter it improves them. 

CORN BREAD. 

I 

Mrs. White, Hamilton. 

One teacupful of corn meal, two teacupsful of flour, two 
ounces of butter, two eggs, tno teaspoonsful of baking 
powder, half a teacupful of sugar, half a teacupful of milk ; 
bake in a quick oven ten minutes. 

HARD RISCUITS. 

Anovymoas. 

Warm two ounces of Itutter in as much skimmed milk 
as will make a pound of flour, into a very stiff paste ; l>eat 
it with the rolling ])in and work it very smooth ; roll it 
thin and cut it into hard biscuits ; prick them full of 
holes with a fork ; about ten minutes will bake them. 

FR^:^'CH rolls, 

Anoin/mous. 

Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; mix an 
^^'f^^ beaten, a little yeast, as much butter and as much 
milk as will make a douo^h of middlin<r stiffness ; beat 
well, but do not knead ; let it rise and bake on tins. 

From Miss Parloas Work'iwj Women s Lectures. 

YEAST HREAJ). 

Per Mrs. Humphreys, Providence, R.I. 

Two quarts of flour will make four loaves, or three 
loaves and a pan of biscuit. Add to the flour half a 
tablespoonful of salt, and the same quantity of sugar ; one 
half tablespoonful of butter or lard ; omit this if you prefer 
half a cupful of yeast or half a cake ; nearly three-fourth?* 



EiKjlish Seed Bread. 



219 



of a (juarfc of water ; sift the flour into the bread-pan, 
savini,^ a little to knead witli ; add the other incrredients, 
havint;' ^he water about blood-vvanii, or 90". If the water 
is eoM it will not begin to rise soon enouoh, and it will 
not he (^ood if it rises too slowly. Knead the dou((h 
thoroughlv on the bread-l)oai'd for twenty or thirty 
iiii?itites ; leave it over nioht. In the morning shape into 
loaves and rolls, and let it rise again ; if put where the 
heat is 1()()\ it will rise in an hour ; it is better to let it 
list' an hour and a half or two hours, at a temperature of 
75°. In kneading do not press tlie dough down, but 
Hiitten it with tlie palm of the hand, then fold and push 
IVoin you with a light touch, repeating the folding motion 
constaDtly in order to enclose as much air as possible in 
tlio (loun;h. Do not use much flour in the kneadinir. Let 
rolls rise longer than loaves, as th(!y do not rise so long 
ill the oven, being so small that the heat penetrates them 
sooner. It is not well to bakc^ a numlxir of loaves in one 
pan, but to give each one its separate pan. 

DIET BllEAP. 

To half a pound of sifted sugar ])ut four eggs ; beat 
tlu'in together for an hour, then add a (piarter pound of 
Hour, dried and sifte<l, with the juice of half a lemon, and 
tiu! giJited rind of a whole one; baki; it in a slow oven 
Or, boil one pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water; 
whisk it with eight eggs until cold; then stir in one 
pound of flour, and keep l)eating until it is put into the 
liven, which, if it be quick, will bake it in an hour. 

ENGLISH SEED JUtEAD. 

One pint of milk warm ; one teacupful of lard and butter 
mixed and melted in the nulk ; one cupful of yeast ; two 
I'upsful of sugar; three eggs ; make into a light sponge that 
is not as stifl' as bread spong(j ; when very light add one 
nutmeg and carraway seed, and if liked, some currants. 
Mix into the sponge and then add sufficient flour to make 



220 



The Canadian Economist. 



it stiff enough to handle on the board ; put it into the 
bread-pan to rise ap^ain, and when very light, mould into 
rui^ks or a loaf, with just sufficient flour to handle it. It 
shouM rise in the baking pans very well and bake in a 
moderate oven. Be sure not to make it at any time stitl 
It is very well to put it to rise at bed-time, and the tir«t 
thing in the morning add spices, etc., and put it to rise 



again. 



]$ATH JUTNS. 



Take a pound and a half of fine flour, three-quarters of 
a pound of sifte<l and )»owdei'e(l loaf sugar, one pound of 
butter, three yolks and two whites of fresh eggs; grate 
the rind of a lemon, add the juice, and mix all the ingre- 
dients well together, and make them into small round 
cakes; put a lew well-washed currants into the middle 
of each bun, and wash them over with ejxij, loaf suirar 
and some comfits ; bake them in a moderate oven, 

(JRAHAM BREAD. 

Make a sponge by boiling four good-sized potatoes; 
wdien soft mash tine ; then stir in a cupful of Hour ; pour on 
the water in which the potatoes were boiled scahling hot, 
and if not sufficient to make three pints of the mixture, 
arid coM watei". When the milk is warm put in a teacupful 
of soft yeast, ami set in a moderatcdy warm place to rise. 
After it becomes light, put in a teacupful of good brown 
sugar (white is not good), and stir in (Jraham Hour until 
thick enough to drop heavily into the greased bakin;:- 
pans. Let it rise again, and bake in a moderattdy hot 
oven forty nunutes. This quantity Mill make two largo 
loaves, and when taken from the oven should be allowed 
to stand Hve minutes before removal from the pan'. 
Sheet-iron bread-pans are muoli to be preferred to tin for 
any bread, but especially for Graham, baking more .'^lowly 
and much more evenly. If the sponge seems at all soui', 
add a little soda. 



1 


of wliij 


1 


mix v( 


1 


Hour. 




CHAPTER XIV. 
TEA AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 

COltN CAKE. 

Miss Berry, Toronto. 

rpAKE a cupful of milk, li.alf sweet and half sour, one 
_L egg, butter the sizo of a wnlnut, two tablespoonsful 
of white sugar, half a teaspoonful of soda and a little salt, 
mix very soft, using two-third Indian meal to one-third 
tiour. Bake in a <(uick oven. 

TEA CAKE. 

MtHS Berry, Toronto. 

One cup of sour milk, one cupful of raisins, one cupful 
of sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, two and a half 
cupsful of Hour, dark spices. 

REBECCA'S CAKE. 

Miss Berry, Toronto. 

One pint of flour, one cupful of ndlk, one cupful of 
sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, essence of lemon to taste. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Mrs. Brechon, Ottawa. 

Thiec pints of flour, rub dry, two teaspoonsful of cream 
of tartar, and one of soda, two teacupsf ul of butter, salt, 



222 



The Canadian Economist. 



milk enough to make a dough, hako in a hot oven, when 
done split it and spread with buttei", covering it with 
sweetened strawberries. Serve hot. 

POP OVER CAKKS. 

Mrs. BrerJionj (Htavn. 

One package of corn starch, six eggs, half a pound of 
sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, to be beaten 
well together, two teasjujonsfid of baking powder. Fill 
th(» pans more than half full ; bake in a moderate oven. 

VKLVET CAKE. 

Mrs. Bawjs. ' 

One pound of flour, three-fpiarters of a pound of suc^ar, 
half a pound of butter, one cupful of cold water, one tes- 
spoonful of soda })ut in tlui water, two tea!;;p)onsful of 
cream of tartar, stirred in the flour four eggs. 

SPONGE (AKF. 

Mrs. Bangs. 



VI' 



Haifa pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of flour, fi 
eggs beaten separately. Stir altogether fifteen minutes. 

ONE, TWO, THPEE, FOUR CAKE. 

Mis. Baptle. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four 
eggs well beaten, half a ciq)ful of milk; half a teaspoonful 
of soda, one of cream of tartar. Season to taste. 

CAKE. 

Mrs. Bapiie. 

Three cupsful of sugar, three of flour, nine eggs, three 
teaspoonsful of cream of tartai-, one and a half of sodn, 



Spice Cake. 



223 



two cupsful of cocoa to he soaked in lialf a cupful of milk. 
Put the cocoa between each round. To he baked in round 
tins an inch and a half hi<,di. 

COCOA-NUT CAKK. 

Miss Magcjie Bunto)», Bradford, Pa. 

Whites of fiveegf(s v ,, uid a half cupsful of sugar, one 
cupful of milk, ont i. of butter, four teaspoonsful of 

bakin«^ powder ; sugar and butter to be .stirred to a cream, 
whites of eggs in last. Flour enough i'or tliiii batter; for 
layers, whites of three (!ggs, powdered sugar as thick as 
for icing, then spread on the cocoa-nut. 

COMMON CAKE. 

Miss Bell Bhith. 

Half a cupful of butter, two eggs, one cupful of sugar, 
one cupful of milk, three teaspoonsful of baking powder, 
two cupsful of flour, one nutmeg. 

CORN STARCH ( 'A K E 

Mrs. Bbjth. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, six eggs and half a 
cupful of sour milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, one of 
cream of tartar, one paper corn starch. Mix cream of 
tartar with starch. Flavour with lemon. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. Booth, Otlaiva. 

One cupful and a half of sugar, one cupful of butter, six 
eggs, half a cupful of sweet milk, three cupsful of flour, 
two tablespoons of cinnamon, half a tabJespoonful of cloves 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half of soda; sift soda, 
'apices nnd cream of tartar into flour, add eggs last. 



224 



Tlie duiadian Economlat. 



ELLENS CAKE, 

Mrs. Booth, Otlaiva. 

One cupful of sugar, three-cjuarters of a cupful of butter, 
three ej^^^H, lialf a cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
Bodrt.one and a !ialf of (;reani of tartar. Beat butter and 
RU<jfar to a cream, then add yolks, beat well, whip whites to 
a froth, then add to mixture ; sift cream of tartar into flour, 
beat well, dissolve the soda in a little warm water, let 
this be the last thin<:f to add. Drop into mixture very 
lightly. 

ELECTION CAKE. 

Miss Booth, Ottawa. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of buttei', half a pint 
of sour cream, seven eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, .one 
pound of fruit. Beat butter and sugar to a cream; beat 
yolks and whites separately, add the tlour to the mixture 
first ; then beat thoroughly ; dissolve soda in cream, 
dredge fruit in flour. 

COKN-STARCH CAKE. 

3Ii's. (Rev.) R. Campbell, Renfrew. 

One package of corn starch, one pound of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, ten eggs, two teaspocnst'ul 
of baking powder ; flavour to taste. First beat su<,'arand 
butter to a cream, then yolks well beaten, next starch ami 
whites of eggs alternately (the whites having been previ- 
ously beaten to a stiff froth.) The baking powder mixed 
in a handful of floui*, and lastly flavouring. The above 
makes a cake in four partitions with icing between. 



^ 



CORN CAKE. 

Mrs. Breden. 



Butter, size of an egg, rubbed into one quart of corn 
meal, one teaspoonful of soda in one and a half pint of 



Corn-starch Patty Pane. 



225 



lour milk, two tablespoonsful of sugar, lialf a teaspoonful 
of salt. 

MOUNTAIN CAXE. 

Mrs. Breden. 

One cupful of sugar, two eggs, half a cupful of butter, 
two cupsful of Hour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, nutmeg. 

RAILROAD CAKE. 

Mrs. {Capt.) Cowley. ' 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, half a cupsful of sweet 
milk, half a cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, half of soda. Quick oven. 

MATRIMONY. 

Mrs. (Capt.) Coiu/ey. 

Four eggs, one cu|)ful of sugar, butter, size of an egg, one 
and a half cupful of Hour, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tarUir, half of soda ; cut through the middle and spread oa 

QUEEN CAKE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) R. Campbell, Renfrew. 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream, add one pound of 
sifted sugar; beat nine eggs very lightly and mix all 
together, add one pound of flour and half a pound of. 
currants. Essence of vanilla to taste. 

CORN-STARCH PATTY PANS. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, six eggs, 
one cupful of flour, half a cupful of sweet milk, one 
package of corn starch, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea- 
15 



226 



The Ganaditin Economist 



spoonsful of cream of tartar, one teaspoon ful of essence of 
lemon. 

SALT.Y LUNNS. 

Mr'. T. Christie. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one of sui'- ir.one egg beaten, 
one pint of sweet milk, one quart of flour, with three tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder. Bake in iron nmtfin pans, 
having them well-heated and greased. Eat warm. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Miss J. N. Carmichael, Brysov, 

Make good biscuit crust, bake in three- tins same shape 
and si^e. Mix the berries with plenty of sugar. Open 
the short cake, butter well and place the berries in layers, 
one over thj other, until three are filled ; then lay over 
the cover, set the cake into thfj oven for five minutes. 
Sprinkle fine • ugar over the top layer, and serve with 
Hweet cream. 

COCOA-NUT CAKE. 

Miss J. N. Carmichael, Bryson. 

One cupful of butter, two sugar, one of milk, one tea- 
apoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar, four eggs, 
three or four cupsful of flour, one teaspoonful of lemon 
— bake in layers like jelly-cake. Place the icing between 
Ihe la3''ers, also the grated cocoa-nut. 

ORANGE SHORT-CAKE. 

Mrs. Cruchef, Montreal 

One quart of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
rub well into the Hour ; one tea.spoonful of soda dissolved 
in the milk, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar sifted in 
the flour. Wet with sweet milk not very stiff. Bake. 
then split the cake and spread with peeled oranges .slicf'd 
add v/ell covered Vvith cream. 



Oyster Corn Cedes. 



22< 



iicc 



of 



beaten, 
:ee tea- 
a pans, 



*. Open 

Lii layei-s, 

lay over 

minutes. 

srve with 



one tea- 
Ifour eggs, 
lof lemon 

between 



of an egi 



dissolveil 
r Bifte^l in 
Itf. Bake 



res 



sliced 



CENTENNIAL CAKE. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One pound of .sugar, one pound of flour, half pound of 
butter, six egg.s, one cupful of milk, liaif teaspDont'ul of 
soda, one of ere mi of tartar — flavoui-. 

COURT CAKE. 

J/7'.s'. Cruchet, MonircaJ. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful of 
buttermilk, lialf a teaspoonful of soda, half a nutmeg, one 
pound of fruit, three cupsful of tl /ir, four eggs; \^-h\jn 
sntticiently beaten add the sodii. Bake nearly one hour. 
Two loaves — very nice. 

CUKUANT CAKK. 

il//'s'. Cruchet, Montreal. 

Two cupsful of sug.Mr, one cupful of bntter, one of sweet 
milk, three cupsful of Hour, one cupful of currants, three 
eggs, one teaspoonfnl of erejim of tartar, one half teaspoon- 
ful of soda. 

(queen's CAKE. 

Mrs. Crvchet, Montreal. 

Half a cupful of buttei", one of sugar, two of flour, two 
eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda, one teaspocntul of cream 
of tartur, hall a cupful of sweet milk, half a nutmeg — 
very nice. 

OVSTKK (UltN CAKES. 

Mrs. Criu'het, Montreal. 

ThK<- one quart of green corn, cut from the ear with a 
foarsc grater ; iwo teacupsful of milk, one of flour, two 
eggs well beaten. Sea.son the battel- with pepper and 
^alt. B;jke on a irriddle. 



228 



Tht Ccmadlan Economht. 



VIXVET CAKE. 

3/r.s. Cruehef, MontrenJ. 

Make a batter of one (inart of milk, three eggs well 
beaten, a wineglass of yeast ; beat all well together, then 
let it rise ; put into the flour a large spoonful of butter, 
beat this thoroughly. When risen put into mutfin lings 
and bake on the griddle. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

MiK!^ Doiujhifi, Kiiifjstua. 

One pint of Indian meal, half a eupful of sugnr, three 
eggs, a tablespoonful of lard or butter, a small teas;*v'('nrul 
of" soda, the same of cream of tartar, enough sweet nulk or 
buttermilk to make a batter. Bake it slowly for at least 
five hours. 

SUGAR CAKE. 

Miss VoiKjlas, Kinijduu. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, seven eggs, 
one teaspoonful of so(ia, two of cream of tartar, tluur 
enough to make a stiff dough. 

POTATO CAKE. 

MUs Douglas, Kinyston. 

Flour enough to make it roll, two eggs, piece of butter 
the size of an ogg, a [)ineli of salt, potatoes enough to make 
a panful. 

KUSK. 

Mw8 iJouglas, Kingston. 

One pint of f^our, one teacupful of sweet milk, one table- 
s])oonful of sugar, three of melted butter, one teaspoonhil 
of soda, two of cream of tartai-, two eggs, and a pinch 
of »alt. 



Cream Muffins. 



229 



STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKK, 

Mix two heaping teas|ioonsful of cream of tartar dry 
among three pints of flour, add lialf a teaeupful of butter, 
a little salt, a pint of milk into which has been stirred a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Mix thoroughly, roll an inch in thickness. 
Bake twenty minutes in a ([uick oven. Oni; quart of 
strawberries, add cream and sujjar to make sauce. When 
the ciike is done divide it into three layers, V)utter them, 
and spread the strawberries lietween them. Eat while, 
warm. 

(X)COA-NUT CAKE. 

Aflss DoiujJdfi, Kingston. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, half a ))ound of butter, 
six (ig*i;^'<, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, 
one cup of sweet milk. Icing the same as for any other 
cake. Cocoa-nut sprinkled between each layer of cake. 

HPONGK CAKE. 

Miss Donijlds, Kingston, 

Half a pound of sugar, one cupful of flour, five eggs — 
Ivat half an hour. Flavour with lemon. 

CUP CAKES. 

Mrs. James Dcdgliesh. 

Three cups of flour, one and a half cups of sugar, one of 
Imtter, one of milk, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half 
!i teaspoonful of .soda. 

CREAM Mr FEINS. 

Mrs. Doniddson, Mobile, Fa. 

One tumblerful of cream, one of flour.a little salt and two 
eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately. Beat the 



I 



230 



The Canadian Econoviist 



yolks, then add the cream, then the flour and salt and 
lastly stir in the whites. Bake quickly in patty pans. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Jl/r8, Dewuf. 

One cupful of butter, one of sugar, one of molasses (not 
syrup), one of strong coffee, cold, one teasjxxnful of soda. 
Fruit to taste, cinnamon and cloves, 'one tables] )oonful 
each, flour to make a stirt' batter. 

NriT f^AKES. 

Mrs. James DahjlU'sli. 

Two cupsfdl of sugar, one cupful of milk, iwo-.hirds of 
a cupful of butter, three cupsful flour, three eggs, two tea- 
spoon.sful baking powder, one cupful nut kernels. 

MOr.ASSKS r'AKE. 

Mrs. James Dabjlicsii. 

Onecupfulof molasses, half a cupful of butter, half cupful 
of water, three cupsful of flour, two teaspoonsful ginger, one 
tea-spoonful soda. Beat well together, and drop with a 
spoon on to a br.ttered pan. Bake ([uickly. 

COKX-STAliCH CAKE. 

Ml><s Ddi'ie, Ottawa, 

One cupful of Inittei', two cupsful of sugai>, four eggs, 
one cupful (jf corn-starcli, two cupsful of flour, one cupful 
of milk, one-half a teaspov)nful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar. Beat the laitfer to a cream with the 
hand, add the sugar and stir until fluft'y. Beat the eggs, 
yolks and whites, separately. Add the sugar and butter. 
and by degrees, the milk ant^ floiir. Bake in two round 
pans a quarter of an hour. 



Wap.s, 



231 



MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Durie, Ottawa. 

One quart bowl of sweet milk, luke-warm, a good table- 
spoonful of butter, and one of lard melted together. Warm 
a deep crockery dish, put in the milk, two tablespoonsful 
of white sugar. Stir in the butter and two well-betiten 
eggs,one-half a cupful of yeast. Stir in flour to consistency 
of sponge for bread. Set in a moderately warm place to 
rise, well covered. For tea they should be set about nine 
o'clock a.m. Drop into rings about three o'clock. Cover 
with a cloth, and put near the stove to rise, until fifteen 
rainntes Ijefore they are to be served. 

MILK TOAST. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Georgetown. 

Having toasted the bread nicely, spread it with butter, 
make some milk hot, add a small piece of butter and a 
little salt to it, then potu- it over the toa.st and serve : Or, 
lav toasted bread in a dish or deep plate, put a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a teacupful of butter. Make it boiling 
hot then pour it over the toast. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston Mass. 

Nine ears of corn grated fine, mixed with the yolks of 
three eggs, and a large tablespoonful of flour, and a small 
cupful of milk. All must be beaten hard and baked on a 
griddle. 

WAFFLES. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

One pint of new milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, with one-ha'f a teaspoonful of soda, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, stir together. Then put in four eggB 



232 



The Canadian Econoiaist. 



and stir until very light. About two teacupsful of flour, 
or enough to make the batter not very thick. Beat it 
five or ten minute.s very hard, and mix them with warm 
water. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Mrs: Hunt, Boston, Ma^s. 

Cut in slices a brick loaf, three eggs, a pint of milk, 
sweetened and seasoned with nutmeg. Lay the bread 
into the mixture for about three minutes and fry on a 
buttered griddle. Eaten with butter. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

One pint of water, one cupful of butter. Boil together 
four cupsful of flour, stilled in when nearly cool. Add ten 
eggs, one teaspooiiful of soda. Drop them in small cakes. 
Bake them in a quick oven over twenty mipute^s. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

M'ke the cream from a heaping cupful of flour, two 
cupfuls of sugar and fdur eggs. Boil one quait of milk. 
Beat the eggs, sugar and flour together, and stir into die 
milk when boiling. When cold flavcur and till the cakes. 

POP-OVERS. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

One egg, one even cupful of flour after it is sifted. One 
cupful of sweet milk, a little salt, a small piece of butter. 
This makes five cupsful. Fill them half full and bake 
them ligljt brown. 



Good Cup Cake. "Ifill 

PUFFS. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Maf^s. 

Two cujisful of flour, ono cupful of milk, not quite one 
cupful of water. The irons j'ou bake in nju.st be very hot 
befoie you put in the l^atter. Butter the irons well. 

m'ginnis cake. 

Mm M. M. Hutch 'son. 

One small cupful of butter, one cupful of white sugar, 
four eggs, half a cupful of cold water, two cupsful of Hour, 
two good teaspoonsful of baking powder, one teaspoonful 
of essence of ginger. 

MARBLK CAKE. 

Miss M. M. Hutchison. 

White part, half a cupful of butter, one cupful of white 
sugar, half a cupful of sweet milk, the white of four eggs, 
two teaspoonsful of baking powder, two cupsful of flour, 
and a teaspoonful of essence of lemon. Dark part, yolk of 
four cfigs, one cupful sugar, half a cupful of molasses, half 
a cupful of butter, half a cupful of sweet milk, two cups- 
ful of Hour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
half a nutmeg. Put in a pan in alternate layers. 

GOOD CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. Hardie. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, three cupsful 
of Hour, one cupful of raisins, one cupful of milk, four 
eggis, a little salt and spice to taste. Beat the yokes and 
whites separately, mix the butter and sugnr to a cream, 
add the well beaten yolks, then the whites ; stir the powder 
into the dry flour. Bake in a moderate oven. 



234 



^Atf Canadian Economist. 



(;PAHAM FLOUR BREAKFAST BISCUITS. 

Mi\s. Hardie. 

One (^uart of Giaham Hour, half a cupful of syrup, a 
pint and a half of water, a little salt, four teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, mixed well in the flour. Add syrup and 
water ; mix all well together, and drop in buttered pans in 
spoonsful. Bake in a quick oven. 

CORN MEAL CAKE. 

Mrs. Hardie. 

One quart of corn meal, half a cupful of flour, a cupful 
of sugar, Imtter the size of an egg, four heaping teaspoonsful 
bak ng powder, a little salt, three half-pints of cold water; 
mix the powder, flour, sugar, and meal together, then stir 
in the water ; melt the butter in the bake-pan and pour 
the mixture into the pan. Bake in a (|uick oven. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

3Irs. W. M. Hutchison. 

One egg, half a cupful of butter, three-fourths of a cupful 
of sugar, three-fourths of a cupful of milk, two teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder. Flour to suit. 

COCOA-NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. M. Hidclc'mni. 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, one 
tables|)oonful of butter, four tablespoonsful of sweet milk, 
1 'iree teaspoonsful of baking powder. Bake on ti?^ plates 
in a quick oven. Beat the white of an egg to a stiff frotb, 
add four tablespoonsful of pulverized sugar ; spread on it 
and sprinkle on cocoanut. Put it in the oven imtil the 
icing is dry. 



JJelioate Cake. 



S35 



SURPRISE CAKE. 

Mrs. G. M. Hutchison. 

One egg, one cupful of sugar. h\If a cupful of butter, 
(*ne cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar; flavour to taste. 

corn-star(;h cakk. 

Mrs. W.M. Jiatchison. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cup- 
ful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoons- 
fiil of cieam. of tartar, four eggs (white only), one cupful 
of rioui', ^lalf a cupful of corn meal, lemon. Beat the whites 
to a stilf paste. Mix all well. 

CORN-STAUCH CAKE. 

Miss Harmon, Ottawa. 

Whites of five eggs, one cupful of butter, two cupsful 
of pulverized sugar, two cupsful of flour, one cupful of corn- 
starch, one cupful of sweet milk, two teaspoonsful of 
l>iiking powdci" ; tiavour to taste. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Miss Harmon, Oftaiva. 

Two teacupsful of sugar, half a teacupf ul of butter, two 
anfi a half teacupsful of flour, one teacupful of milk, 
whites of five eggs, two teaspoonsful of baking powder ; 
take two large spoonsful of the white dough, half a cupful 
of raisins, one-third of a cupful of citron, one teaspoonful 
of each kind of spice, half a cupful of Hour, a wineglass- 
ful of molasses. Bake in layers with the black cake for 
the centre, and put together with plain frosting. 



236 



The Canodiau Kcoiumilst. 



PAIIMAMKNT (.'AKKS. 

Mi^H Hophirk, Ottavui. 

Two pounds of flour, oiio pound of sugar, one-fourtli of a 
pound of gin<^er, one pound of butter, one pound of treacle; 
boil this and pour it on the floui", work up the paste as liot 
as your liand will ]>ear it, and loll it out in V(!rv laiirc 
thin cak<;s, the sixth of an ineh thiek. Mark it in si|UiU('s 
with a knife, and fire it in a slow oven ; separate the cakes 
while soft. 

I'OTATO PUFI'. 

jl/yx. (Rev.) Dv. Kenip. 

Two cui)sful of cold mashed potatoes, stir into it two 
tablespoonsful of buttcn* beaten to a ereani, add to this twd 
well beaten eggs and a cupful of milk, salting to taste, 
beat all well together. Pour into a deep ornamental dish 
and bake until nicely browned. 



nUTTERNUT CAKK. 

MrSf {Rev.) Dv. Kemp. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, three of flour, 
one cupful of chopped butternuts, one of sweet milk, two 
teaspoonsful of l)aking [)owder. 

SEED niscuiTs. 

Mrs. Leslie, Ottmra. 

Onepoundof flour,(piarter-poundof sifted sugar,(iuaitoi- 
pound of butter, half-pound of carrawa}'- seeds, three egifs, 
beat the butter to a cream, stir in the Hour, sugar and car- 
raway seeds, and when these ingredients are well mixed, 
add the eggs which should be well whisked. Roll out the 
paste with a round cutter, shape out the biscuits and bake 
them in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes, The 



2\i88over Cakes. 



237 



tops of the biscuits may be brushed over with a little milk 
or tlio white of an e^'g beaten, and then a little sugar 
strewn over. Sufficient to make three dozen biscuits. 

PEUTll CAKK. 

Mrs. Leslie, (MtaiVit. 

With one j)ound and a halt' of flour, mix six ounces of 
lirowii su<j;ar, half a pound of well cleaned currants, a tea- 
spnoiifulof *(rated nutme;^ andoneof a cinnamon or gin<^er, 
half a pound of butter, rubbed in (me pint of uiilk, two tea- 
s])oonsful of soda dissolved in about two tablespoonsful 
of cold milk and about thirty drops of essence of lemon, 
lieat all well together and bake it in a buttered tin, one 
|)Ouiid of currants may be used. 

DESSERT CAKES. 

Mrs. Leslie, Ottaiva. 

Haifa pound of flour, half a ))ound of butter, six ounces 
of sifted sugar, three eggs, clarify the butter and beat the 
sugar in well, arid the tiour by degrees, then the eggs 
Still heating, mix thoroughly and bake in small tins foi* 
tight or ten minutes. SutKcient for eighteen or twenty 
cakes. 

SCOTCH CAKE, 

Mrs. McQaarrie. 

Three quartei-s of a cupful of sugar, one cupful of butter, 
H8 much Hour as you can mix into them. 

PASSOVER vAKES. 

Miss Jane Martin, Ottawa. 

Take three pouYids of flour, half a pound of butter, and 
a little salt ; mix the butter and the salt well in the flour ; 
take tepid water ; roll thin, then cut in srpiares, and dent 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3 




^(5 













<=/ 



!.0 



I.I 



141 IIM 



112 



IM 



i^ U 



1.8 



1 


1.25 

zr: : 1 


1.4 


1.6 







6" 




► 



Vi 



<p^ 



% 



'cf^l 



a 






>1*. 








o 



7 



^i 



w 




Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 






^ 



S 



^ ... 



^^^^ 



^^ ^ 










;\ 



c^-L^-^^ ^^^ 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEaSTER.N.Y. I4S80 

(716) 872-4503 



1^ 






&=>/ 



m 



KB 



238 



TJte Canadian Economist. 



with a fork ; bake on the bottom of the oven. This will 
make a very nice tea biscuit. 

SWEET lilSCl'IT. 

M'(ss Laird, Brisluf. 

One cupful of sugar, one of Ijutter, three eggs, one cup- 
ful of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tar- 
tar, dissolve them, one nutmeg gratctl. This receipt should 
make at least, fifty very excellent biscuits. 

(LOVE CAKE. 

AIis.<t McKlnnon, Glouceder StreH. 

One cupful of molasses, one cu))ful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of buttermilk, three cupsful of flour, three eggs, one 
tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonfiil of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus in milk, raisins; bake. 

GT5AHAM FI.OUK MUFFINS. 

iV/'.s\ i]fc2\ffj(jai'f, ^erv Kdlnhuri/h. 

Two cupsful of buttermilk, two eggs, a piece of butter tln' 
si/e of an v^^g, two tablespoonsful of sugar, one teaspoeiiful 
of soda, two of cream of tartar, a little salt, floui- enougli 
to make a stifl[' batter ; bake in small iron pans — must be 
very hot before the batter is put in. 

COUN-STAIJCH CAKi;. 

i//'.s'. (Rev.) J. M. MacaliHier, Afhto 



II. 



Half a cupful of butter, one and a half cupsi'ul sug;ir, 
beaten to a cream ; then add one cu[)ful of flour, the whites 
of four eggs, one and a-half teaspoonslul of baking jiow- 
der, mixed with the flour and tiiree-(juarters of a tupfiii 
of corn-starch ; mix smooth in half a cupful of milk, fla- 
vour to taste, bake in flat tin pans, very good. 



Old MaiiVs (Jake. 



239 



ROLY-POLY. 

3/r.9. (Rev.) J. M. Macalister, Ashtov. 

Make good biscuit crust, roll out an inch thick, and 
spread with any kind of preserves ; fold so that the fruit 
will not run out, place in a buttered dish and steam for 
an hour and a half. When done turn out on a platter 
uml serve with boiled sauce. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

i1A?'«. McGiUivratj. 

Five eupsful of flour, one of buiter, one of cotfe«s pre- 
])ared as for the table, one cupful of molasses, one of sugar, 
one of raisins, one teaspoonful of soda; spice with cloves 
and cinnamon. 

REAL PLANTATION JOHNN Y-< AKK. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

One pint of Indian meal, half a cupful of sugar, three eggs, 
a tablespoonful of lard or butter, a small teaspoonful of 
soda, the same of cream of tartar, and enough buttermilk or 
sweet milk to make a thick batter ; grease your pan well 
and pour the batter into it ; bake in a slow, steady oven 
for at least five hours. This is the real Plantation Johnny 
or Hoe Cake, which was obtained from a f<jrmer slave of 
Governor Point Dexter, of Georgia. We have tried it 
often, and we like it better each time we taste it. 

OLD maid's C\KE. 

Mvft. Maxwell. 

If old maids ai-e as good as the new-fashioned cake 
which has been named after them, they ought not to re- 
main long in single blessedness. But we will give the 
recipe, and let you judge for yourself: A pound of flour, 
a quarter of a pound of lard or butter, four wineglassesful 



240 



The Canadian Economist. 



of milk (sweet, of course), half a pound of bloom raisins, 
quarter of a j)ound of currants, the same of candied orange 
peel, a quarter of a nutmeg, two teaspoonsful of ground 
ginger, one of cinnamon, and one of carbonate of soda; 
mix well together, and bake slowly for about two hours. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

Two eggs, half a cupful of sweet cream, one cupful of 
white sugar, one teaspuouful of cream of tartar, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda. 

OLD-FASHIONED SHORT CAKE. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

A quart of buttermilk, a tablespoonf'd of melted lard, 
and salt to taste; roll out to about half an inch thick, cut 
into diamonds, and bake quickly. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Mr3. Maxwell. 

One cupful of molasses, one of buttermilk, four table- 
spoonsful of butter*, one teaspoonful of soda, one of cloves, 
and one egg. 

ROCK CAKE. 

Mm W. B. Mc Arthur, Oadeton Place. 

Six ounces of butter, six ounces of white sugar, twelve 
of flour, two eggs, half-ounco of currants. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

Half a pound of butter well beaten, three-quarters of a 
pound of white sugar, ten eggs beaten separately, one 
package of corn starch, two tablespoonsful of Hour, three 



ifichn'y-iinf Cith' 



•2-tl. 



teaspoonsful of baking powder or two (jt" cream of tartar, 
and one of so<la, wliites of stn-en eggs for cake and three 

for icing. 

SPONGE CAKK. 

Mrs. W. B. McArfhur, Carl dim Place. 

Four eggs beaten for half an lionr, one cupful of sugar, 
me cupful of tlour. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mi>^f< AfcXachtan, Cohourij. 

Four eggs, one cupful sugar, strained and beaten welL 
one cupful Hour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Misfi McXachtan, Cohonrg. 

One cupful of sugar, five eggs, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a little lemon. 

PRINCE OF WALES C.VKE (GOOD). 

M'(i<i MrNarhtan, Cohovrrj. 

One cupful of sugar, half cupful of l)utter, one cupful of 
Hour, half a cupfid of corn starch, half a cupful ot sweet 
milk, one large teaspoonful of baking powder, white of 
three eggs. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE 

Misfi Mdi'aUlxter, Kinf/ston. 

One cupful of shelled hickoiy nutv, one cui)fu1 of but-* 
tor, one ot sugar, oiu.' cupful of sift«* 1 Hour, oncdialf cupful 
of corn stare!), one-half cupful of milk, one and a-half tea- 
spoonsful of leaking powder, whites of four eggs, mix but- 
ter and sugar to a cream, add the whites, beaten lightly, 
milk, Hour and lastly the nuts, first dredging them well 
in Hour. Flavour to taste. 
IG 



242 



TJie. Canadian Economist. 



ROLL JELLY CAKK. 

Mrs. McTavish, Osgoode 

One and a-lialf cupsful of brown sugar, three eggs, one 
cupful of sweet milk, two cupsful (»f flour, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, one of essence of 
lemon. Beat the eggs and sugar together thoroughly; mix 
cream of tartar and soda in the milk, stirring in the Havour. 
Add the flour. Bake (juickly. spreading thinly on a long 
pan, and as soon as done spread on the jelly and roll up. 

CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. McTavish, Of<</oode. 

Half cupful of hutter, two cupsful of sugar, three and 
a half cupsful of Hour, one cupi'ul of sweet milk, three 
eggs, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartai", one of soda. 
Beat lightly. 

TEA CAKE (no. 2). 

Three and a half pounds of flour, one and a quarter 
pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, one teaspoonfulof soda, 
half pint of water ; roll thin, and bake in a moderate oven. 

RILE CAKE. 

Mrs. McTavish, Osgoode. 

Four eggs, one cup of white sugar, one cup of rice 
Hour. Beat them all well together for half an hour; hake 
in a moderate oven. 

SILVER CAKES. 

Mrs. McTavish, Osgoode. 

The whites of one dozen eggs, five cupsfulof flour, onecup- 
ful of whitesugar,one cupful of butter, one cupful of cream, 
one teaspoonful ot creamof tartar,half a tea.spoonfulof soda. 
Beat all well together and bake in a deep pan. 



Covii-stavck Cake. 



243 



s, one 
3onful 
slice of 
-; mix 
avour. 
ca long 
11 up. 



ree and 
k, three 
3f soda. 



quarter 

of soda, 

Ite oven. 



of rice 
ir; l>ake 



>nocup- 

cream, 

lot soda. 



BACHELOK'S corn (JAKK. 

Mr. D. McTo,vhsh, Ottavxi. 

To a pint of sifted corn meal, add a teaspoonful of wait, 
one large spoonful of butler, (ju.trtiM' of a cupful of .sour 
cream, two eggs, well beaten, add milk until it becomes a 
thin batter. Beat well and bake in deep pans with a 
quick heat. 

<'UE.\.M ("AKi;. 

il/)vs-. Philip Monson, OttacxL 

Beat six eggs fiv^e minutes, addthreecupsful of sugar, beat 
two minutes, twocu])sful of Hour, with teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, beatoneminute, onecupful of cold water, with one 
tea.spoonful of soda. Grate the I'ind and S({ueez(^ the juice 
of a lemon, beat a minute, add twocupsful of Hour, beat one 
minute. (,*ustard for the cake : half a pint of milk , take 
out a little to mix four teaspoonsful of flour, nearly one 
cupful of sugar, piece of butter the size of an v.g^^, yolk of 
one egg, lemon to taste. Bake the cake in layers, then 
.scald the custard and place between. 

COFFER <AKE. 

Mrs. Philip Monxov, Oftitwu. 

( )ne cupful sugar, half a cupful of molasses, one cupful of 
weak coffee, three cupsful of tiour, half cupful of butter, 
one agg, one teaspoonsful of soda, one cupful of raisins ; 
spice to taste. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Henry Muthry. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar well lu-aten, add four 
ej]?gs Ih^aten quite stiff, one cupful of corn-starch, one cup- 
ful of milk, two cup.sful of flour, three teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, sift the flour and powder together into 
the batter; beat thoroughly and bake inunediately. 



244 



The Canadian PJconomi'<f. 






JENNY LIND CAKE. 

Mrs. Hevry Mather. 

One half cupful butter, one cupful of ujilk, two table- 
spoonsful of crccam, two cupsful of sugar, three eggs, one 
tenspoonful cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
four cujisful Hour. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

Mo's. Henry Mailicr. 

Haifa cu])ful of molasses, half a cupful of sugar, half.i 
cupful of sour milk, piec«' of butter the size of an egg, two 
cupsful of Hour, spices and a few chopped raisins, sjtioe 
with a little ginger, cloves and cinnamon. 

NICE DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Henry Maflicr. 

One cupful of white sugar, five tablespoonsful of butter, 
whites of six eggs, one cupful of sweet milk, three cupsful 
of flour and two spoonsful of baking powder sifted in the 
flour, flavour with orange, leuion or vanilla. 

INDIAN CORN CAKE. 

Mrs. lloiry McElroy, Richmond, Ont. 

Scald one pint of cornmeal, add five beaten eggs, one 
cupful of butter, two cupsful sugar, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing soda and one cupful of tlour, bake in a hot oven. 

POP OVEIJS. 

Mrs. Henry McElroy, Richmond, Ovf. 

One egg well beaten, one cupful of sweet milk, one cup- 
ful of flour. Heat the gem -pans before pouring in the 
mixture, and bake in a hot oven. 



Baiiharij Cakes. 245 

CHOCOLATE CAKK. 

Miss MvKellar, Otttnvn. 

Any j^ood jelly cake recipe will do for the cake. Two 
ounces of chocolate, a heaping cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of cream, a little vanilla. The chocolate is thus prepared, 
dissolve it into a smooth paste, with a little hot water, 
then adding the cream and sugar, stew altogether to a 
thick marmalade which must be spread between the cakes. 
It" you choose it grated cocoanut sprinkled on top of the 
chocolate is very nice. This will be enough for one cake 
of six thicknesses, or for two or three stories. The thinner 
the cakes are the nicer they are. 

DROP CAKK. 

Miss 3/., KuKjstou, 

One pound of t^our, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, one slice of bread crumbled, one 
tg^, small piece of butter, milk enough to make a thin bat- 
ter. Drop from a spoon and bake. 

I.EMON CAKE. 

Miss 21., Kinyston. 

One lemon, five eggs, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of sweet milk, four cupsful of tlour, three cupsful of sugar, 
one teaspoonfid of saleratus, mix the butter and eg^ to- 
gether, grate the lemon in and add the juice. 

BANHURY CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Currants one pound, beef suet four ounces, canded lemon 
and orange peel each three ounces, salt, small pinch of 
cinnamon and nutmeg, rjuarter of an ounce, macaro(ms or 
ratitias four ounces ; bake twenty-five or thirty minutes ; 
make a paste of fourteen ounces of butter to a pound of 



240 



Tke Canadian Economist. 



riuui' ; ;L(ive an extra turn or two to prevent its rising too 
much ; roll out half the paste thin, spread the fruit, A:c. 
equally on it, moisten tin; edges and lay on the cover. 
Mark it with the hack of a knife in pieces two inches 
wide, three h)ng, divide while it is waiin. 



SUGAR CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingaton. 

Take half u pound of dried flour, a (piarter of a pound 
of fresh butter, a ({uarter of a pound of sifted loaf suicar, 
then mix the Hour, sugar, and bnttei-, add the yolk of an 
egg beaten with a tablespoonful of cream , make into a 
paste, roll out into small cakes, bake on floured tins. 

SMALL PLUM CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Six ounces of powdered loaf sugar, three ounces of but- 
ter, one pound of flour, three eggs, half a pound of cur- 
rants, cream the butter, beat the eggs well, beat all to- 
gethere to a stiff paste, which drop on floured tins or 
plates ; bake in a brisk oven. 

SODA uiscuir. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One ((uart of flour, one teas])oonful of soda, two of cream 
of tartar heaped, salt, roll thin, cut, and when putting in 
the pan lay one on top of the other. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Whites of four eggs, half a cupful of butter, a cupful and 
a half of white sugar, two cupsful of flour, half a cupful of 
milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar. 
fl^-vour with lemon, 



Savoury Biscu it. 247 

SPICED CAKE. 

M'i88 M., Kingston. 

Take the yolks left from the snow cake, half a cupful of 
butter, half a cupful of hrcAvn sugar, one cupful ot Hour, 
quaitcr of a cupful of milk, one cupful of raisins, one of 
currants, nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves to taste, quarter 
of a teaspoonful of soda, half of cream of tartar. 

MUFFINS. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One quart of milk, butter about the size of an egg, one 
teaspoonful of yeast, make a thick V»atter, let it rise all 
night, or until light, about a sjjoonful into (;ach ring. 

SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One pound of butter, one pound of flour, one pound and 
a half of sugar, powdered, two eggs, one -half ounce of carra- 
way, mix well, if too stitf, add more ogg, roll thin with 
very little flour, or the paste will be tough. Bake on plates 
in a hot oven. 

CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
mix to a paste, add two tiiblespoonsful of currants, and one 
of sugar. Roll out and bake in a quick oven. 

SAVOURY BISCUIT. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Fifteen egirs, one pound of sugar, eight ounces of flour, 
and the raspings of a lemon. Break your eggs. Separate, 
add the sugar to the yolks. ^Work it with two spaddles one 



248 



'Tli^' t'li Ddiliid) h\'ini<'inisf. 



in each liuiid, rolling tlu'iii like tlruni-sticks one ovei- the 
otlior. By tins motion the mixtnre will Iroth up. ('on- 
tinuo it at least a (|uaitt'r of an hour. Some one else 
shouM 1m' whiskin^^ tin; whites when come to a show aiul 
firm, put a fointh part of tlie yolks ami mix well with 
the spaddle, then ])OMr the M'holo of the whites and mix 
^^ently while another sifts in the wh )le of the tlom-. Make 
the paste smooth which is done by well mixinijthe Hour 
]jay the biscuits on ])aper with a sj»o(»n or a fumiel, with 
three four holes in it. Usual leni^^th three and a half 
inches, .vlien full, i<c with fine sifted powdered sn^'ar, 
sifted ovei' from a silk sieve, or throw the sifte<l sugar 
over the first row with your liand, and takin^^ the sheet 
of paper by the u])per comer, scatteriui; the sui;ai' over 
th(.' others. In a few minutes lay the paper on the plates 
and bake a tine clear colour. When cold detach v.ithtlic 
blade of a knife. They are generally placed back to back. 

WAFKK lUSClMTS TO ORNAMKNT \ (HKA.M \C. 
Miss M., KiiiijKfoH. 

Two ounces of sui^ai', two and a half ounces of rlunr, the 
whites of two eggs, a drop of oil of cloves, do. cinnamon, 
make a licjuid ]>aste, having melted the sugar. Drop on 
plates four inches apart. Spread with the handle of a 
spoon till very large. Roll then on a roller. or turn them 
into horns. 

TWO Kiai CAKE (good). 

Mrf<. (Bcr.) Ki'uneili MacLennan. P.E. I. 

One cupfid of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cii|»- 
ful of milk, two cupsful of flour, two (!ggs, a teaspouufiil 
of cream of tartar and lialf of soda. Beat sugar and e<jgs 
together, mix cream of tartar in the tiour, and dissolve 
soda in the nuJk, add last. Flavour with Tutter almonds 
or lemon. 



Sugar Cakei^. 



-:.¥,) 



SPONOE BISCUIT. 

iW/w M., Kliujdon. 

Ten et(gs, one pound of suga'*, six ounct's of flour, and 
tlic raspings of two lemons. Wo.k like the Savoys, put 
in buttered nioidds, sift sugar ovei-. Bake in a moderate 
boat; when of a fine colour, take earefully out, set the 
"lazed side down and in a sieve, tliat it nuiv not fall. 



COMPOSITION CAKK. 

Mix. (Rev.) KcniU'ih MacLennun, P. K. I. 

Tliree-([uarters of a pound of butter, one pound of 
brown sugar, two pounds of flour, six teaspoonsful of bak- 
ing powder, one anrl a half of currants, six eggs, one 
jiint of milk. Spice to ta-ste. 

.ML! I- KINS. 

Mi'x. (Her.) Kenneth MaeLeanan, P. K. I. 

One quart of flour, three eggs, one teasj)oonful of soda, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartai', one pint of milk, 
a iiineb of salt. 

RAISED CAKK. 

Mix. [Hec.) Kenneth MacLeimau, P. K. I. 

Take one cupful of bread sponge, add one cupful of 
sugar, three-quarters of a cupful of butter, one cupful of 
chopped raisins, one egg, one tea spoonful of spice. Stir 
a.s stiff as possible with a spoon, and let it rise until light, 
tlien bake, from three-cjuarters of an hour, to an hour, ac- 
eordinti: to oven. 

SUGAR CAKES. 

Mrs. (Rev.) Kennetk MacLenuan, P. E. I. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, three? 
'juarters of a pound of sugar, eggs^ from two to four, smal 



250 



The Canadian Economist. 



;i 



pinch of salt, caiTa way seeds, ginger or currants at choice, 
slow oven, fifteen minutes, should he lightly coloured, but 
tiioroughly baked. 

GROUND RICE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mvi^. Thox. McKay. 

Weigh nine eggs and their weight in sugar, add the 
weight of six in ground rice, add a little lemon and a little 
salt. It requires a little longer baking than that which 
is made from wheat tiour. It is a goo(l cake. 

SALLY LUNNS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Mix two dessertspooonsful of yeast and two pounilsof 
tine flour with a little warm water ; let it stand half an 
hour, to rise. Put two ounces of butter and the volk of 
an ti(fg into as much milk as is wanted to make the dough 
the re(juired stiffness, and ndx all wcdl up togethci'. Put 
it into cups or tins. When risen properly, bake the Sally 
Lunns in a rather quick oven. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Mrs. Thbs. McKay. 

Take mashed potatoes. Hour, a little salt and melted 
butter to make them sweet, add a little powdered loaf 
sugar, mix \^ath just enough milk to make the paste stifl 
enough to roll ; make it the size and thickness of a muffin, 
and bake quickly. 

TO MAKE RUSKS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Beat up seven eggs, mix them with half a pint of warm 
new milk in which a quarter of a pound of butter has 
been melted, add a quarter of a pint of yeast, and thre<' 



Corn Sfarch Cake. 



251 



nniKcs of suijar. Put them <:;i'adiially into ah luuch flour 
as will luakc a liglit paste, neaily as thin as batter. Let 
it rise before the tire half an hour, add more Hour to make 
it a little stitt'er ; work it well and divide it into small 
loaves or cakes about five or six inches wide, and flatten 
them. When baked and cold put them into the oven to 
laown a little. These cakes, vvhm first baked, are very 
<f()(i(l buttered for tea. If they iuv niade with carraway 
seeds, they eat viay nice cold. 

RICK POUND CAKK. 

Mrs. 'Thos. MrKdi/. 

Four ounces of Hour, eij,dit ounces of butter, six eggs, 
twelve ounces of sugar, eight ounces of ground rice, the 
peel of a lemon, if you like, which improves it, or thirty 
drops of essence of lemon. 

A LKiHT Si:i:i) CAKK. 

Mrs. Thos. McKan 

Take ^he yolks of six eggs, an<l the whites of three, 
i>eat them well for half an hour, then ])ut in six ounces 
of powdered loaf sugar, mix it well with the eggs, add 
j,'ia(lu;dly seven ounces of flour, and a few carraway seeds. 
Stir the whole together and put it into a j)an or dish for 
I'akiiig. If the oven is hot, half an hour will bake it. 
The moment it is taken out of the oven turn it out of the 
iiiould and let it lie uj.side down until (piite cold. Great 
ciue should be taken in the bakinjr. 



ill 



ml 
III 

PI 



CORN STAR( H CAKE. 



Mrs. Perley, Ottawa. 

Whites of three eggs, half a cupful of corn starch, half 
a cupful of butter, half a cupful of sweet milk, half a 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, quarter of a teaspoonful 
of soda, one cupfiU of sugar, one cupful of flour, Mix 






252 



TAe Canadian Economist. 



the flour, corn starch, and cream of tartar together tho- 
roughly, then add to the butter, sugar and eggs after they 
are well beaten togethei-, then put in the milk and soda. 



GKAIIAM CAKL:. 



Mrti. Perky, Ottaim. 



One (juart of water, half a cupful of yeast, one cupful of 
sugar, a small piece of butter and a little salt. Let this 
rise over night, and in the morning add a small Ijit of 
soda. Bake in cups. 

SlLVb:i{ TAKE. 

Mm. Hiram Robinson, Oltaiua. 

Take a cupful of sugar, half a cupful of milk, a cupful 
and a half of floui-, half a cu})ful of butter. The whites of 
four eggs, two lady-fingei's or macaroons, or pour into a 
dish lined with sponge cake. 

SEED CAKE. 

Mitts Robertson, Thorold. 

Mix the yeast with a little floiu- and warm water, sot 
it to rise, when light enough take half a ])ound of ."^ugar, 
two eggs, work them together, add a cu])ful of milk, half a 
teaspoonful oi soda, dissolved in the milk, half a nutmeg, 
and a little ground s|)ice two tablespoonsful of carraway 
seeds. Then stir in as much tlour as will make it pietty 
stiff, then have a quarter of a pound of butter melted and 
work it in, set it to rise, when light, bake it in a hioderate 
oven. 

COCOA-NUT CAKE. 

Miss Robertson, Thorohl. 

One half cupful of butter, one-half cupful of milk, three- 
fourths of a cupful of sugar, three eggs broken separately, 
three teaspoonstul of baking powder dissolved in tiour, 



Mavhled Cake. 



253 



HFE CAKE. 

MiHS RoherUon, Thorold, 

One cupful of sour cream, half a cupful of sugar, two 
cupsful of floui', two eggs, one teaspooiiful of soda. Bake 
(|uickly. 

TEA CAKE. 

Miss Rohertson, Thorold. 

One cupful of white sugar, tlireo-fourths of a cupful of 
sweet milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful (jf cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, a little Itntt^T and Hour to 
thicken. Flavour to taste. 

SPON(}E CAKE. 

Miss Rohertsov, Thorohl. 

Ten eggs beaten with a pound of white sugar, then add 
quickly three-quarters of a pound of tlour, with flavour- 
ing to taste. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Roy, Oitdiva. 

Whites of ten eggs, two cupsfnl of sugar, one cupful of 
butter, three-quarters of a cupful of sweet milk, two and 
a half cups of Hour, half a cupful of corn-starch, two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar, one cupful of soda, flavour 
to taste, cut preserved citron peel in thin pieces and stick 
in top of cake after putting in tlu; pans. 

MAIMU.KD CAKE. 

Mrs, Roy, Of to wo. 

One and a half cupsful of sugar, half a cupful of sweet 
milk, half a cupful of butter, two and a half of Hour, whites 
of four eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, flavour with lemon. Dark part — one 



2.54 



The CaiMiilan Economid. 



II 



cupful ot'l>rovvn sugar, half a cu))ful of molasses, half a cup- 
ful of butter, half a cupful sour 'milk, two and a half cups- 
f ul of flour, yolks of four eggs, half a teaspoouful of groiuid 
cloves, allspice, cinnamon and nutmeg, one tea^poonful of 
cream of tartar, half a ceaspoonful of soda, drop a spoon- 
ful of light an<l dark alternately in tins, 

CORN STARCH CAKK. 

Mr^\ Ray, Ottawa. 

Half a cupful of butter, one of sugar, jialf a cupful of 
sweet milk, two Q^fi;i!^^, one cupful of corn starch, one cujjful 
of flour, two teaspocmsful of baking powder. Beat ten 
minutes. 

MOUXTAIlSf CAKK. 

Mrs. R'nj, Ottavja. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cujjful of butter, half a ciiii- 
ful of sweet milk, two eggs, one teaspooiifnl of cream of 
tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda. 

CHOCOLATE CAKK. 

M7's. James Rodger, Montreal. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, tlirco 
and a half of flour, five g<^^^, leaving out the whites of 
two. Icing — Whites of two eggs, one and a half cupsful 
of sugar, six tablespoonsful of grated chocolate. 

MAR15LK CAKE. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Dark — One cupful of brown sugar, half a cupful of 
butter, half a cupful of sour milk, half a cupful of mo- 
lasses, two and a half cupsful of flour, yolks of four eggs. 
White — One cupful of white sugar, half a cupful of butter, 
and milk, two and a half cupsful of flour, whites of four 



Cocoa nut Cake. 






eggH, one teaspoonful of baking powder to each cupful 
of flour. Mix the dark and white separate, and put in 
the pan alternatol}'. 

CORN STARCH PUFFS. 

Mrs. James Rodf/er, Mo nf real. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one cupful of sugar, one 
cupful of corn starch, half a cupful of butter, one teas|)oon- 
ful of vanilla in the butter and sugar, two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder mixed in the corn starch. 

DROP CAKES. 

Mrs. James Rodijer, Montreal. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar and butter, half a pound 
of flour, three eggs and some currants. Drop in a pan 
witli a si)Oon. 

IMPERIALS. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Half a pound of sugar, one pound of flour, six ounces of 
butter and currants, four eiiii's. Mix well with a fork and 
lift into the pan with a fork. 

COCOA NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Stitt, Ottawa. 

Ingredients for cake : — One cofFeecupful of sifted white 
sugar, one of flour, six eggs ; separate yolks from whites. 
Beat thoroughly, first the yolks. Strain them and add 
the sugar, beat again, then whisk the whites till quite 
stiff, and add them ; last of all, gently sift in the flour, 
stirring lightly. Place in the jelly-cake tins and bake 
quickl}'. Ingredients for the rising: — Whites of two 
eggs, one cupful of icing sugar, one cupful of fresh grated 
cocoanut, a few drops of lemon-juice. Whisk whites till 



t>:'iG 



The Canadian h'couomixt. 



quite firin add sngar, cocoa-nut and lemon juice ; beat them 
all togetlier. Place alternate layers of cake and cocoa-nut 
icing, keeping the rising well on top of the cake. 

PATTY CAKKS. 

Miss Steivarf, Richmond Road. 

One cupl'ul of butter, two of sugar, two eggs, one cupful 
of milk, two and a half of Hour, two and a half tea- 
spoonsful of baking-powder, nutmeg; bake in patty-pans. 

PIITNT'KSS f'AKK. 

Miss Ste2vart, Richmond Road. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, thrco- 
quai-ters of a cupful of milk, four cupsful of Hour, one 
pound of stoned raisins, three and a-half spoonsful (»f bak- 
ing powder ; lemon flavouring. 

SANDWICH TAKE. 

Mi's. Smith (Brumn). 

Two eggs, four ta])lespoonsful of sugar, foui- of flour, 
four of water, a small teaspoonful of soda and two of 
cream of tartar. 

SANDWICH CAKE. 

Mrs. Swcdwcll, Poi'ta</e da Fort. 

Four eggs well beaten, one cu))ful of sugar, about the 
size of an egg of butter, three tablespoonsful of milk, a tea- 
spoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar. 

C(1HN-STAUCH CAKE. 

Miss Lizzie J. Sfarl', Carleton Place. 

One cupful of butter and two of sugar. Beat to a white 
foam; add four eggs beaten quite stiff, one cupful of flour 
and two of corn -starch, one cupful of milk, and flavour witii 



(Coffee Cale. 
bitter n Imorifls • siff nriA f..„ 

I" Ik ..lisso ved. The hk tl, n It '" '^"«P"onful of 
»o<la I.S added and bake mnSiately^ ^ ">« 

GrUHAM MUFFrNS. 

One pint of sweet TT.;it ^ 
of nn eovr, two llr^.. l ' """"^ ^"«"' P'^ce of butter ih . .' 

'""'""" «""■■ to ,nake a stiff' Cte,* ^'J^'"?-' PO"'<Ier and 

«te,. Bake ,„ ,n„Hin tins. 
AN KXCiaLENT CAKE. 
^^m Stapehy, BeUevUc. 

"f lemon. Mi.x the bntte, and «1 f'''"""^"' "^essence 
K'etJior an.l bake A ,1 ! i ^ ^'"' '" ^ <=reani n,,t ,11 
S''eat iu,p..ove„,ent; ^'"*""' '=°'^"''">'t or c..™^"',,''" 

COKX..STARCH fAKK. 

,j, ^'^'•''- -^'wt'^A, Bristol. 

'l>--to^"ScupL'o;3?,:' "f '^""f ' «"« of -gar three 

COFFEE CAKE. 

^ ^^^'^''- ^^- *^'^"^«, Off aim. 

17 






258 



The Canadian Economiat. 



PLAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. A Scott, Ottaiva. 

Two cui)sful of suo-ar, one cupful ot'l)utter, one eg<,', five 
cupsful of Hour, one teaspoonful of baking' powder. 

POTATO CAKK. 

Mi'a. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Boil potatoes; bruise them fine, mix butter and salt 
and baking powder into Hour, enough to ti(;ad and roll 
out. Cut out in s([uaies and diamond .shaped. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, OttiiAVtL 

One pint of new milk, one quart of flour, four egg.s, four 
teaspoon.sful of cream of tar, two of soda, four tables{)oun.s- 
ful of melted butter. Beat the eggs well, add milk, stir 
in the flour in which the ci'eam of tartar has been thor- 
oughly mixed ; then the butter, not a very full ta])lespoon- 
ful, lastly the soda, dissolved in a little milk. Boat it 
well for a minute or two. 

COCOA-NUT CAKE (THREE LAYLKS). 

Mrs. A. Scott, OttauxL 

One cupful of sugar, one-third cu[)ful of butter, tiirec ugg.s, 
three-quarters of a cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Flour to mix. Beat whites 
of eggs, two tablespoonsful of sugar, spread it over each layer 
and sprinkle with cocoa-nut. Bake in Sandwich tins. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Mta. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Half a cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, three eggs, 
one cupful of milk, three cupsful of flour, three teas[)0()nsfiil 



dev. 



.Six 

'Sllr.. If;, 



'-^'iii'ee 
tl)ree-,|„; 
•Jurino- . 



Jit mhlef- 



2.j9 



)f soda, 
[whites 
Ih layev 
lius. 



lonsfui 



of I >akiiig powder (cook's frion«l). Work the Imtturtoaereain, 
add the siii^ar, beat the eggs, then a«M the milk, then Hour, 
witli baking powder, mixed in it dry. For tilling between 
the layers, one pint ot'nulk, one cupful of sugar, one egg, two 
hikI a-half teaspoonsful of corn-starch. Flavour with 

jl'lIlOll. 

TEA CAKK. 

iMrs. A. Scotf, Ottau'it. 

One cupful (jf sugar, half a cuj<fulof butter, twoeggs, two- 
thirds of a cupfid of milk, one tablespoonful oi' baking pow- 
der, two cupsful of Hour. Flavour. 

STKAWHERllV SI[()HT CAKK. 

Mrs. A. Scot I, Oftawa. 

Out' (juart oftiour,one cupful of butter; mi\ together, one 
cupfulof ice-(;old water. Roll it out like pastry, handling as 
little as possible. Cover two large dinner plates with it; fill 
each with freshstrawberries, sweetened with 8ugar,place one 
layer over another, until three are tilled, then layover the 
cover, and set the cake in the oven for five or six minutes, 
sprinkle fine sugar over the top layer, and serve with sweet 
cream. 

KR'E FLOlHi CAKK. 

Mrs. (Her). A. Scott, Oarn Soaud. 

Six eggs, yolks and whites, beaten separately, half- 
pound of Imtter, half-poun<l of broken loaf sugar, half- 
l"mnd of rice flour. Beat with the hand for half-an-hour. 
Sure flavour to taste. 

-lUMBLES. 

ili/x Thonvioit, Point Fortune, Qtie. 

Three eggs, half a cupful of butter beaten to a froth ; 
lhiee-(|uarters of a cupful of white sugar; add lemon flav- 
'JUiing ; flour sufficient to roll without sticking. The jum- 



2G0 



The Canadian Economist. 



bles should be rolled in white powdered sugar, cut out with 
a tumbler. Then make a small hole in the centre, with 
the top of a pep|)er box, and bake on tins in a quick oven. 

liUCK WU EAT ( "A K ES. 

Mrn. Story, Ottawa. 

Twocu})st*ul of'sweet nulk, oneteaspoont'ulofsalt.one and 
a-half teas])Oonsful of soda, and three even teaspoonsfiii of 
cream of tartar, two tablespoonsfnl of melted butter. Put 
iill into the milk, add add l)uek\vheat for thin batter. 

MANNA v'AKES. 

^1/;'N. W. Tai/hn: 

One cupful of sugar, a piece of butter size of an egg, one 
agg, one cupful of milk, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspo(mful of soda; mix .soft, roll to half an inch, 
and bake quickly. 

TEA CAKE. 

M.H. W. Taylur. 

One cupful of sugar, a half cupful of butter, one egj,'. 
one cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a 
half one of soda, two cupsful of {jmv, bake in a moderate 
oven. 

CORN-STAIfCH CAKE. 

^fls8 Thomson, Renfrew. 

One cupful of butter, two cu])sful of sugar, one of 
milk, two of flour, one of corn starch, the whites of six 
eggs, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, flavour to taste. 

BREAK EAST ROLLS. 

Mrs. M^. Taylor. 

One pint of warm milk, one egg, piece of butter size of i 
an egg, a half cupful of yeast, salt, mix at night; in tli 



i 



Rice C(d:cK 



1>()1 



,vith 
iven. 



V. 



(fcr one 

tiirtai', 
iT\ inch, 



m>" eg;;. 
lavtivr, a 
Ixlevate 



I one t>^ 
of si>^ 



size of : 
I. in tbo 



morning roll out, cut with a cake-cutter, turning one side 
over; set in pans to rise. Bak<' in a moderately-hot 
oven. 

("OKN CAKE (Excellent). 

M'lHs Tlt(nnHO)i, Renfrew, 

Four ounces of hutter, four of sugar (whit*;), four of 
Hoin-, four of corn-starch, a half <'ui)ful of milk, whites of 
four eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one and a 
half of soda. The ilour, starch, cream of tartar and soda 
to lie all mixed together, the eggs the last. Flavour with 
l<-inon. 

SODA CAKK (Very nice). 

.i)//.s.s Thorti'ion, Renfrew. 

Four i'^fXg^, four cupsfnl of flour, two of sugar, one of 
milk, one of hutter, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream 
of tartar. Bake either in j)atty-pan or in two large tins. 

.IITMJ{LES. 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, two pounds of flour, 
three eggs, one cupful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda. 

SPONGE CAKE FOR JELLY ROLL. 

if?"*. J<nu'i^ Thomson. 

Three e^^^^'i, one cupful of sugar, two cupsful of flour, 
two taltl(»spoonsful of halving powdtn-. Bake in a slow 

RICE CAKES. 

iV/'.s. Janes I'homf^on. 

Three and a half pounds of flour, one pound of hutter, 
one and a half of sugar, one ounce and a half of ammonia 
five eggs, and milk to mix up a medium soft dough. 



202 



Thr (Jdvadiaii KcoTiomid. 



(iRAUAM PUFFS. 

il/ (•'.'».'« Urquhdvf, Vfilh. 

One j)int of (iniliani flour, one i'^% one t(nis|i()onfiiI of 
*:a]t, one tal>I('S]ioonful of baking' j)o\v«l«'r; mix well witli 
swcot milk or- wntcr. Bake in «^'('m-|)ans. 

J)|{()r r'AKKs. 

il/Z.vs i'rqnhdvf, Perth. 

Ono })int of flour, om*-luilf pound of Itutter, one-quarter 
pound of suo;Mr, half a nutme»^f, «^n-ated, a linndful of 
•'urrants, two eufgs, a lai'^e pincli of soda. Drop fmm a 
spoon into a })an, and l»ake al)out ten oi" Hfteen mimitcs, 
This (piantity will nwvke more than tliirty cakes. 

SODA CAKK. 

A nnvyinovs. 

One pomul of floui", one ])ound of moist su;jfar, rul» in u 
lialf poun«l of hutter, lard or drippin«j^, four c}^^^^, wi'll 
beaten, one teacupful of warni milk (not hot), a tea- 
spoontul <>f soda disso!v<Ml i'l the milk ; mix all to- 
gether, and bake innnediately for two liours in ratln'ia 
quick oven. 

B K I', A K I' A ST MUFFINS. 

A'noiii/moiiy. 

Two eogs well beaten, one eu^^ful of sugar, a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, one teas[)oonf ul of soda, one pint 
of milk, one (|uart of flour, two teaspoonsful of cream of 
tartar. Bake in muffin rings or in tin phites in a (piick 
oven. 

TO MAKK A NICK PI-ATX (AKr:. 

Anonymoitfi. 

Rub six ounces of dripping into three pounds of tloui', 
add six ounces of moist sugar, six ounces of currants, 



Jin U road Cak 



v. 



263 



liiilf an ouTKv of allsjdce, one pint of wanii new iuilk, stir 
into it two t0MSj)O()nsfnl of liakini; |)owfl«r, and mix the 
wliole to a douj^h, put it into six tins well jnfroased. Place 
them ui'ixr a tire, for nearly one Ijonr. then l>ako them for 
;i?i lionr nn<l a (|uaitei-. 

JKI.LY CAKK. 

MiK [/{('J'.) J). Wiu'drofx', Tr^'sti'dfer. 

Kour (mnces ofhutter, five ounees of su<j^ar, tlireo ag^s, 
six oinices of Honr, a teaspoonftd of l»akin;j^ powder, work 
tlic liiitter to a eream, then add tlie sugar, woikini; tliese 
toLjctlier till very li«^ht ; then tlie enr<rs, one at a time, 
without heatint(; then the flour and baking powder. 
Make in tlirre tins, jelly between, pulverized sugar 

11)1 top. 

LEMON CAKK. 

Mrs. (Rcc.) 1). WardrojX', Tcesiraffr. 

Tliiee eggs, one eupful of sugar, tliree tablespoon.sful of 
water, one and a half cupsful of flour, three teaspoonsful 
of baking powder. Beat eggs and sugar together till very 
liiflit, then add lialf the flour, then the water, then the 
other half of the flour an<l baking powder. Bake in three 
tins. For putting between the layers, prepare the follow- 
ing mixture: (Jrated rind and juice of a lemon, one egg, 
Ix'atcn, half a eupful of water, a teaspoonful of butter, 
and a tablespoonful of flour, made smooth with a little of 
the water. Mix all together and bring to a boil on the 
stove, stirring to keep smooth, cool, and sj)read between 
the layers ; sifted sugar on the top. 

HAILHOAl) CAKK. 

MlS''< M'nnilc White, Hamutoii. 

Three eggs, one cupful of flour, one and a half cupsful of 
*ngar, beat eggs and sugar together; one teaspoonful of 



264 



The Canadian Econoiaist. 



cream of tai tar, half a tea.spoonful of soda dissolved in 
lialf a cupful of water, then add one cupful of flour, flour 
to taste ; when done spread with jelly and loll quickly. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

il//.s\s Minnie White, HanvUton. 

Two cupsful of meal, twocup.sful of flour, three cupsful 
of milk, two eixgs, half a cupful of hutter, two teaspoons- 
ful of soda, and four of cream of tartar, two tablesjjoons- 
ful of sufjar. 

SILVER CAKK. 

J//.s'.s M<f(/f/ie Whife, HawUton. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, whites of 
four eggs, one and a half cupsful of flour, one teas|)oonfiil 
of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda. Flavour 
with hitter almonds or vanilla. 

TEA CAKKS. 

MifiH Eliza White, Hamilton. 

Three eggs, one cupful of biitter, one of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of scsda, two of rivani of 
tartar. Flavour with lemon or vanilla. Put all in the 
flour before you mix them. No milk or water. 

POP- OVERS. 

Brooklyn. 

One cupful of flour, one of milk, one agg, a little salt, a 
small piece of butter. Bake in moulds. 

TUMBLER CAKE. 

Mrs. Walfonl, Jienfreiv. 

One tumblerful of molassjs, one of ginger, one of cur- 
rants, one of raisins, one of milk, one of butter, four of 



Jumhirft. 



2C5 



flour, one teaspoonf ul of saleratus, one of clo\ es, one of 
cinnamon, one of nutmeg, and five oggn. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. WalfonJ, Renfrew. 

Two cupsful su[(ar, one of l)utter, four of flour, one 
of sweet milk, two teasjioonsful of cream of tartar, nine 
eggs (the whites). 

BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. Williams y Chaudiere. 

Corn cake — two cupsf ul of meal, two of flour, two eggs, 
two cupsful of milk (sour or sweet), one teaspoonful of 
soda, a small piece of butter. If the meal is soaked in the 
milk over night,it is better. 

GRAHAM POP-OVERS. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere, 

One (juart of water, half a cupful of sugar, half a cupful 
of yeast, a small piece of butter, a little salt — in the morn- 
ing add a smnll piece of soda. Take care that the irons 
are very hot, 

IXDIAN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. Williams^ Chaudiere. 

, Ouo and a half eupsful of meal, half a cupful of flour, 
one and a half cupful of sour milk, two eggs, two table- 
spoousfid of butter, one teaspoonful of so<la. 

JUMBLES. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

Two eggs, one and a half cupsful of sugar, one cupful 
butter, one tablespoonful of milk, a little soda, nutmeg, 
Hour to roll in coaise sus:ar. 



200 



The Canadian Kconowhf. 



DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudihr. 

Three eu})Hfu] of sugar, one of butter, or a little less. 
the whites of eipfht eggs, one cupful of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of ereani of tartar, half of so<la, four eu))sfiil of 
flour. 

TAKE. 

Mri^. I/iigh Yo}(Yi(j, Savd Poinf. 

Flour, three and a half ))oun(ls ; sugar one and a (|naitt'r 
))ounds ; l)utter, one pound ; half a ])int of milk iiavjjiir 
one teasj)oonful of soda (carhonate) dissolved in it. Roll 
thin, and hake in cake tins. 

CREAM PANCAKES. 

Ca&sdl's hiviionai'ij of Cooke nj. 

Rul) the rind of half a fi-esh lemon with three or f<tm- 
large lumps of sugar until the yellow part is all taken 
oflf', then crush the sugar to powder, and mix with it a 
pinch of powdered cinnamon, a small pinch of salt, ami 
an ounce of dried flour. Make this into a smooth ])ast(' 
with a little cold milk and an ounce of clarified butter: 
then stir in very gradually half a ])int of thick cream ami 
the well whisked yolks of foui-and the nhites of two cijgN 
Melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small frying 
pan; fry the pancakes V(M'y quickly, and serve them as 
quick as possible. They should be very thin. A seeninl 
supply of buttei- will not be I'equired for frying. 

FRENCH PANCAKES. 

(7(^s^s7'//^s• Pirfionarif of Cooherii. 

Make a batter by beating up together three spoonsful 
of potato starch, five raw eggs, some powdered loaf sugar, 
and a little water. Add enough milk to make it of the 



Uuckwheat Calces. 



267 



consistency of porridge. Butter well the inside of a fry- 
ino; pan, and place it over a moderate fire. When it is 
sufficiently hot, pour in a large spoonful of the batter, 
so as to spread it over the whole of its surface. When 
the pancake is done enough, throw it on a dish, and 
sprinkle its surface with crushed loaf sugar, or cover it 
with jelly. 

PLAIN l'.\N(AKi:S. 

Cdssf'lVs Dicfioixfr}/ of Cooker i/. 

Wliisk two eggs thoroughly and pour them into a bowl 
containing four tablespoonsful of flour. Beat the mix- 
ture until it is smooth and <(uite fiee from lumps, then 
add a pinch of salt and two-thirds of a j>int of new milk. 
Let the batt>M' stand in a cool place for an hour or two, 
then fry the pancakes according to the directions given 
aSovc. Half an ounce of dripping for each pancake. 

BUCKWIIKAT CAKKS. 

Ciif^seJf's Dicfionory of Cookiry. 

To ;i j)int of buckwheat fiour add a large teaspoonful 
of baking powder ami a little salt. Mix to a thin batter 
usin;,' luke-warm water in cold wealher. The fryingpan 
lequires to be oid}'' rubbed with grease and the ))atter 
dropped in quantities sutticient to cover an ordinary break- 
tVst plate at one tin»e. Turn and send to table very hot 
and \V(dl buttered, or the\" can be eaten with treach; or 
syruj) if preferred. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKKS (Another way). 

Cusseirs ])}rfion<try of (■ookev}/. 

Put a large tablespoonful of yeast into a hollow made 
in the middle of one quart of buckwheat and work it into 
a light dough with warm water ; cover it up warm by the 
lire to rise for three hours. When risen enough the top 



20)8 



The Canadian Economist 



will be cracked, then ^et ready the griddle, — it should be 
hot and well buttered or gi'eased. The cakes may then 
be pioceeded with. Convey with a ladle as mudi hatter 
as can be wanted, that is, accoixling to the size of the 
cakes. When done on one side turn, and when (juitf 
baked butter tliem as they are removed from the griddle, 
A fresh supply of butter is not required for every cake, 
but it is sufficient if the griddle l^e well rubbed with it. 
Lay them one on the other and divide in<"o quarters. 

K.VISKD lU'CKWHEAT CAKKS 

Warm a cjuart of water. Stir into it a good tablespoun- 
ful of treacle and a teaspoonful of salt. Mix in enoujrh 
buckwlieat flour, or oatmeal, or Indian corn-fiour to make 
a st'ff batter, together with a tablespoonful of good yeast. 
Let it stand to rise before the fire. Then bake on a hot 
plate in iron rings like muffins, or in a sla-jk oven. Toast 
and serve the cakes hot with Imtter. 

I.KillT RYE TK,\-CAKKS. 

One pint of sweet milk, two eggs, a tal)lesp(K)nful 
of brown sugar, and a large pinch of salt. Add enoii<fli 
rye-floui- to make it as stiff as common griddle cake batter. 
Bake one-half hour in common gem-pans. 

RYE DROPS, OR MUFFINS. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, three pints of rye flour, oiie 
handful of wheat flour, one-half teacupful of home-made 
yeast, or one tablespoonful and a-half of distiller's yeast. 
Make overnight, set in a warm place to rise and bake in 
round tins for half an hour the next morninof. 



RYE DROPS FRIED IJKE DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful of sour milk orbuttermilk, three tablespoons- 
ful of sugar, one of butter, melted, if buttermilk is not 
used ; one egg, a small teaspoonful of saleratus, one of 



Hog Cak-es. 2(i9 

cinnamon, flour enouf^'h to make a stiff hatter. Take it 
up by the tablespoonful and fry in hot lar«l. 

IlYE GRIDDLE (."AKES. 

Take one quart of rye flour and one cupful of wheat 
flour, wet it up^vvith sour milk or buttetniilk until the 
hatter is thick enough to cook easily on the griddle, add 
to it a ])inch of salt, a small teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in warm water, and one well-beaten egg. Giiddle 
cakes marie of vye flour are far superior to those made of 
wheat Hour for thev are far more tender. (Jorn meal can 
he sid)stituted for wdieat, if desired. 

JlYE IlOLLS. 

Take one pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, a little 
salt, a tablespoonful of lard, and three tablcspoonsful of 
suL^ar, stir into it enough rye flour to make a very stiff 
hattiT, tlien put wheat flour on your hands and take up 
as nineh as a large spoonful of the dough and roll it out 
im tlie board as you do twisted <lough-nuts, and when 
lolh'il long enough twist it up into a round cake like a 
jmnhle and l)ake on flat tins. A delicious roll for supper. 

RISEN FLANNEL CAKES. 

Tlu' Baziir. 

Into one cjuart of flour put two teaspoonsful of salt, 
lieat two whole eggs and pour into a quart of milk, first 
hoiled and cooled to })revent its souring ; beat the batter 
ijuite light, then add three tablcspoonsful of yeast, beat 
again and set to rise till morning. 

HOE CAKES. 

Tlie Bazar. 

Take a piece off your light bread dough, early in the 
morning, and make it into a thin batter with cream or 



270 



Tive Canadian Economist 



new milk ; let it stand to rise till just before your break- 
fast hour; pour the batter then in spoonsful on a hoe and 
bake quickly. Have ready a bowl of melted butter to 
dip the cakes in, and serve (juite hot. 

SARATOGA TEA-CAKKS. 

Family F/ieml. 

To each pound of flour add a des.sortspoonful of yeast 
powder, one egg, one-half pint of milk, two spoonsful )i 
melted butter, two S[)oonsful of sugar. Rub the itiifiedi- 
ents together, then quickly mix in the milk witli tlie 
butter, then the beaten eggs. Cut cut in i)lscuit foi 



111 



and bake quickly in buttered pans. 

CAPITAL OATMEAL CAKES. 

Famlft/ Friend. 

Work three |);iits of tine oatmeal and one part of Hour 
into a stifl' paste with treacle (golden syrup) with the ad- 
dition of a very small (piantity of lard, and sutticient link- 
ing powder to impart the desired lightness. Bake the 
paste in the form of small flat cakes, much resenihling 
the ordinary ginger-nnts of the biscuit baker. 



I'LAIN SEED CAKE. 

Yoliwj Ladles Journal. 

Two pounds of Hour, one and a half pound of treaclo, 
nearly one ounce of ground ginger, ([uartei'-pound of Imtter, 
quarter ounce of carraway seeds, ground, a little candied 
lemon-peel cut tine, mix all well with the Hour, wanii the 
butter and mix well with the rest; dissolve in iMtiling 
water a large teaspoonful of carbonate of soda and stir 
well into the treacle, add to the other ingredients, work 
all thoroughly together, and bake in a buttered tin two 
liours, in rather a slow oven. 



Rout Cakes. 



271 



CRUMPETS. 

Fartiilij Friend. 

One cupful of sweet milk, one cupful of sour milk, or 
buttermilk, one agij;, half a teaspoonful of soda, a pinch of 
salt, Havour and sn^^ar to tast(!. Make the hatter a good 
(leal thicker than for pancakes ; hake on j^riddle. The 
ciuinpets will keep for a week and improve in keeping. 

IIUUT CAKES. 



F'irrdly FrUnd. 



Mix two pounds of tiour, one pouikd of butter, one pound 
of >.ugar, and pound of currants, clean and dry ; then wet 
into a stiff paste with two eggs, a large spoonful of orange- 
flower- water, the same of rose-water ; di-op on a tin plate, 
floured. A very shoi't time bakes them. 





CHAPTER XV. 
MUSH, OATMEAL, UIVK 



HOW TO MAKK MUSH. 

Home Mcfo^ew/ei'. 

VERY few pt'0|)le kiiDW how to iiicake this disli as it 
should ho. Th(3 ingTcdients for a dish of iniish are 
water, salt, and cornineal. Tlie wat(!r sliould Im soft, and 
the salt line, and the meal of the best ([iiality; yellow 
meal jxives the best colour, but white meal is more easilv 
cooked. The water should he boiling hot at the couuiu'iici'- 
nient, middle and end of the operation. The meal should 
be added very slowly, so as to prevent any lumps bcin;,' 
formed, the cook stirrin«^^all the time, and should never be 
in such quantities as would brinn" down the temiierature 
of the water below the boilin<i^ point. Herein lies the 
secret of making good mush. Mush should be thoroughly 
cooked. 

OATMEAL PORUIDGE. 

Home MesseiKjev. 

Put some water in a saucepau on the fire. Let it boil 
quickly, then throw in a pinch of salt; sprinkle some oat- 
meal into the boiling water with the left hand, and at the 
same time beat it briskly with a fork or spoon held in 
the right, to keep it from getting into lumps when the 
porridge is thick enough, let it boil till wanted ami servo. 
Treacle, cream, milk or sugar may be eaten with it. 



To Mix OatmeaL 



273 



isl\ as it 
msh arc 
^oft, !unl 
; yellow 
re easil} 
lunencu- 
1 slioiiltl 
>s bein*; 
lever be 
^eratnvL' 
lies the 
M'ougbly 



It it boil 
uie oat- 
ll at the 
, held in 
Iheii the 
1(1 serve, 
lil. 



CORN MUSlf. 

Home MeHspt) I /(!!'. 

Put one (juart of water on the stove to boil, stir into a 
pint of cold milk, one pint of cornnical, and one teaspoon- 
fiil of salt wheFj the water boils, pour in the mixture gra- 
dually, stirring all together. Let it boil one hour, stir it 
often. 

SPLENDID OAT (AKK. 

d/>'s'. Kenuet^y, Oven Son ml. 

Take oatmeal, say three cups, and mix with one eup of 
tiour. then mix in Itutter (well) not enough to prove sticky 
to the fingers, then pour in eold water and mix ; take on 
to the board and sprinkle tlour when necessary, when 
lolling. Be careful not to make it too wet, or it will prove 
troublesome to roll very thin ; loll thin, cut it in squares 
or three-corned |)ieces, and bake in a slow oven. Best 
when fresh made. 

OATMEAL CAKE, 

il//'.s'. H lojh. Youuff, Sariil Point, 

Put two or three handsful of meal in a bowl and nu)isten 
with water, merely sutHcient to form into a cake. Knead 
it round with the hands on the pasteboard, strewing meal 
under and over it, to keep it from sticking to the hands. 
It may be made thin as a wafer, or tiiicker, according to 
taste. Bake on a hot iron plate, until done on the under- 
side, take ort'and toast the underside befoi-e the tire. To 
make these cakes soft they must not be toasted before 
the tire, but both sides done (piickly on the griddle. 

TO MIX OATMEAL. 

Miss M. Kingston. 

Mix oatmeal with boiling water, because it will bear 
rolling out thin for cakes. 
18 



274 T}ie Canadian Economint. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

Misa M. K'lngHton, 

Tliree and a half pints of wh?at to a f^allon of cold water, 
salt and boil half an hour. Dish and eat with milk. 

RICE. 

CufisclVs Jfousehold Guide. 

The rice imported from Carolina is the most valuod in 
tliis country, owin<ij to its becoming softer wlien l)oile(l 
than the other kinds, it may l)e distin<^uished fioni the 
Patna rice, by its <(rains being broader an<l shorter. When 
rice is eaten in large ([uantities, it is liable to remain un- 
digested for a considerable time. For this reason, it is 
often necessary to season the rice with warm spices or 
f)ther condiments, but it is not liable to ferment nor turn 
sour in the stomach. It is most useful when emj)l()ViMl 
in conjunction with other articles ot food. It then forms 
a light and wdiolesomci diet, owing to the quantity of 
starchy material it contains, althougli as it'is destitute of 
gluten, it does not atlbrd the same amount of nourishment 
as wheat. The l)est way of prejmring rice for food, is to 
bake it in a dish with milk, either pure or diluted with 
water. When lice is cooked in a saucepan with water over 
the fire, great care should be taken not to allow the con- 
tents to boil, but (mlv to simmer. It is also necessary to 
be careful that only a small (piantity of water be employed 
for boilino- the rice for if too much is used the rice will 
absorb it and swell too much. When this food is proi»erly 
cooked, it should V>e i:)erfectly soft, and yet not broken ami 
as dry as possible. 

RICE SOUFFLEE. 

CasseU's Household Guide. 

Boil ground rice in milk to a thick gruel ; add pounde<l 
macaroons, sw^eeten highly, tiavour with vanilla, orange- 



Boiled Rwfi. 



275 



Hcnver water, roso water, coHec or chocolate, mix in the 
yolk of five or six eg^s, heat tlie whites to a froth and 
mix th«'iii in also t]iorou«jf]ily and evenly ; turn the wliole 
into a lartre ])read tin well buttered inside (wliich it must 
not more than half till), or into a hroad, o])en tin or silver 
dish, oval or circular; set it into a rather brisk oven ; as 
soon as well swollen and nicely browned, dust sugar over 
the top and serve. When it turns out well, this soutticl'e 
is a great success, and not dithcult to achieve. It depends 
on the ingredients Iteing well beaten, frotlied and mixed; 
on these being ]>ut into the dish innnediately afterwards; 
on the sufficient temperature of the oven, and on the rapid 
transfer of the souffiee from the oven to the dinimr-room. 



150ILKD IIMK. 

Ca.sseWs Dirtiontiri/ of (hxtkri'ij. 

Take a sufficient quantity of lice, and pick it free,' from 
louL'h mains and other foreioii substances, then wash it 
([iiickly in cold water, and hurry it to the ])ot l)efbre the 
giain has at all softened. As to the (piantity of water to 
be used in boiling, there are two modes ; one is to put in 
twice as mucli water as rice, and allow it all to be ab- 
.sorhed by the grain; the other is to put in three or four 
times as mucli watei-, but to pour almost all of it off as 
soon as the gia in changes fiom its pearly-white colour and 
gives proof of having softened. In both modes, when 
this stage of boiling has been attained, the pot is to be with- 
drawn from the hot fire and set where it will be kept at 
a low steaming heat, until the water has all gone. This 
last process is called " soaking." Properly conducted, the 
rice comes from the pot perfectly done, of a clear, white 
colour, with each grain Jinn and distinct, and swelled to 
<louble its original size. Salt, of course, is to be added. 
Kice prepared in this way should not be stirred much in 
boiling, or it will become gluey ; a large open fork passed 
through it once or twice will be sufficient. 



270 



TJip. CdiifuUdn Erovmnwt. 



KICK lUSClUTS. 

Cifs'sc/rs Dicfionnry of Cookery, 

Boat two .)UiH;t's of fresh l)iittor to a cream, stir into 
this four ounces of j^round rice and two tahlespoonsfiil of 
povv(l(M'tMl loaf-snj^ar ; moisten the mixture w itli a wdl- 
beaten Q\i\f, roll it out, and stamp it into small rounds with 
a pastry cutter ; ])ut these on a baking' dish, and luik*- in 
a genth' oven. 

]{I(;K IILAXC-MANCK. 

CoHsrirK Dictionary of Cooh'ri/. 

Take half a pomid of <;round rice and boil it in a (piart 
of milk or crcj'.m, adding' su^ar, lemon-peel and a stick of 
cinnamon or a piece of vanilla ; when the rice is well 
boiled, take out the spice and lemon-prud, dip ;i basin (ir 
mould into cold water }iinl pour the rice into it; when tlu 
rice is quite cold, turn it out and serve with a custard or 
fruit sau(-e poured over. 

lUCK HLAXOMAXdi:. 

('((sxclC.s l)ictionary of Coolrry. 

Soak the thin rind of half a lemon in a (piart of milk 
till it is pleasantly flavoured ; or, if })i('ferred, drop into 
the milk a few drops of almond or vanilla Havourin*;-; mix 
a (piarter of a pound of rice smoothly with a portion of tlic 
milk, add the rest gradually to^jfether with a slice of frcsli 
butter and a little sugar, and ])ut the whole into a sauce- 
pan ; stir it over the tii-e and let it boil for about ten min- 
utes, or until it leaves the side of the pan ; turn it into 
a damp mould and let it stand in a cold place till it is set. 



t?7: 




i%> 







CHAPTER XVI. 



MA(^VRONI. 

llinni' Mt'ssi'iHfrf. 

ONK (jURitcr of a pound of iijnc;rroiil lioiied in wut«'r, 
witli a little salt, tvventv or tliirty niinutt's. Wlien 
(lone, drain ort' the water, an<l keep the saiu'('[)an covered ; 
roll two tables) toons fu I of hutter in four of Hour; Ix.il a half 
pint of cream and one pint of milk, to wliieli a<ld the but- 
ter and Hour, and boil until it thickens, stilling all the 
time; butter a dish and put in a first layer of macaroni ; 
tlit'ii grate over this an ounce <»t' cheese, and })our a por- 
tion of the sauce, llepeat this tour times, which will till 
your disli (use a (juarter of a pound of cheese in all). 
Bake ten minutes. 

MACAitoxr. 

Soak a ([uarter of a ])onnd of macaroni half an hour in 
just water enough to covi-r it. Then j)ut it in a buttered 
'lisli, add salt, butter and pepper, (irate over it about an 
"lunee of cheese. Stir two eggs into one cup of milk, and 
pour over. Bake twenty minutes. The appearance of 
macaroni is improved l)y laying strips of i)ufi' ))aste cut 
with a paste jigger over the top, crossing them as you 
Would f(jr a tart. 

M.VC.VRONr. 

What I Kvow. 

Lay as much macaroni as will till a (piart bowl, in cold 
water; let it soak haU' an hour, and tlien put it into a 



278 



The Canadian Econoiaist 



\l 









deep baking dish ; ivld a pint of rich milk, a quarter of a 
pound of butter and a teaspoonful of .salt ; cut in pieces ; 
over the top grate hard old English or American cheese. 
Bake an hour — it should be brown as a loaf of bread, and 
served in the baking dish. 

EXCELLENT MACAUON L 

Mvfi. Thos. McKay. 

Soak the macaroni first in warm water for abmit lialf 
an hour ; throw that away, and boil it for a <[uarter of an 
hour m fresh water; throw that away also, and boil it in 
about a pint of milk till (juite t^'uder. Be sure it d()('« 
not burn. Take a silver spoon, and while on tlie fire 
keep lifting the nuicaroni so that it <loes not stick to the 
bottom of the saucepan, which ought to be a porcelain 
one. Do not break your macaroni mort^ than you can 
hel]). 

MACARONI. 

Dot a est ic Coolrr//. 

Boil four ounces of macaroni till it is (piite tender, then 
lay it on a sieve to drain, and put it into a stewpan witli 
about a gill of cream, antl a piece of buttei' rolled in Hour. 
Boil it five minutes, ])our it on a plate, lay Parnusan 
cheese roasted a^^ over it, and send it up on a water ])lat('. 

MACARONI AS USUALLY SERVED. 

Warne'a Every-dau Cookery. 

Half a pound of pipe macaroni, seven ounces of Parme- 
san or Cheshire cheese, four ounces of butter, one pint 
of new milk, one quart of water, and some bread- 
crumbs, a pinch of salt. Flavour the milk and water 
with a pinch of salt, set it over the fire, and when boilinj; 
drop in the macaroni. When tender, drain it from the 
milk and water ; put it into a deep dish ; sprinkle sonu' 



How to Boil and Dress Macaroni. 



270 



of the grated cheese amongst it, with part of the butter 
broken into small pieces ; ]>lace a layer of grated cheese 
over the top and cover the whole with fine bread-cj-nmbs, 
pouring the remainder of the butter, lightly wanned, over 
liie crumbs. Brown the top of the macaroni witli a sala- 
mander, or before the fire, turning it several times, that 
it may be nicely browned. 

MACARONI OMELET. 

Family Friend. 

Take some remnants of maci*roni, cut them on the 
disli with a knife or fork several tim. s across, then beat up 
a number of eggs proportionate to the (juantity ol macar- 
oni, mix well together, and turn the whole into a frying- 
pan, containing a little liquified butter. When the 
oiiH'let has taken a good colour on one side, turn it once 
in a dish, then put a little more butter in the pan and 
return the omelet for the other side to colour. 

MACARONI PUDDING. 

CasseWs Household Guide. 

Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe macaroni in a pint 
of milk, and a bit of lemon peel and ciruiamon till ten- 
der, put it into a dish with milk, two or three eggs, but 
only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water 
and a glass of mola.sses. Bake with a paste round the 
edge. A layer of orange marmalade or raspberry jam in 
a macaroni pudding, for change, is a gr.>at improvement, 
in which case omit the almond water ratafia, which you 
should otherwise flavour it with. 

HOW TO BOIL AND DRESS MACARONI. 

Dominion Monthly. 

I'ut in an iron pot or stew-pan two cpiartsof water; let 
it bt'il, add two teaspoonsful of salt, one ounce of butter, 



_j! 



280 



T]u'. Canadian Economist. 



then add one pound of macaroni, boil till tender, let it be 
rather firm to the touch. It is then ready for use, either 
for soup, pudding, or to be dressed with cheese. Drain it 
in a colander, put it hack in the j)an, add four ounces of 
chet^se or more, a little laitter, salt and pepper, toss it 
well together and serve. It will he found light and nu- 
tritious, and well worthy the notice of vegetarians. 

MACARONI. 

(roih'l/'s Hook. 

Boil it in milk or in weak veal l»roth, pretty well Ha- 
voured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish with- 
out the liquor, and among it put some hits of butter and 
grated cheese, and over the top grate more and a little 
more butter. Set the dish into an oven but do not let 
the toj) become hard, 

MACARONI lMI)I)lN(i TO liK MADK oF (OOKEI) .MKAT. 

Godeu'ti Bool:. 

Take an ecpial ([uantity of ham and chicken iniMecl, 
and mince them small. Then weigh out half the (|iian- 
tity of macaroni, which nnist be previously boiled tendci 
in broth, two eggs beaten well, one ounce of butter, cay- 
enne pepper and salt to taste ; all these ingredients to be 
mixed thoroughly together. Put into a mould or basin 
and boil it for two hours. I'he macaroni must be kept 
in as long pieces as possil)le. 

FISH AND MACARo'm. 

(iodeya Jioofc. 

Take the remains of any white l)oiled Hsh, remove the 
bones and skin, and break it in rather small pieces. Boil 
some macaroni in water till tendei-, <liain it well and cut 
it in lengths of about an incn, and mix equal quantities 
of fish and macaroni. Then put two ounces of butter 



Macaroni Dressed Sweet. 



281 



into a stcvvpaii, add the yolks of two Oj2fg.s, a little lemon- 
juicM', pepper and salt, and stir in well half a ])int of 
'•ood D'.elted hutter. Make the sauce quite smooth, put 
in the fish and macaroni, and heat it thorou<4:h]v in the 
sauce. Pour it on a dish, keepinj^^ it as high as you can 
in tlie centre ; cover it thinly with tine bread crumbs and 
liiown the top in the ovei^ till of a nice light colour. 

TO SEHVE MAC'AKOXr. 

Bool' of iJic } foil sell old. 

Sininu'r some macaroni in a little stock with })ounde(l 
iiiiico and salt. When ([uite tender take it out of ^he 
li(|U»)r, lay it on a dish, grate over a good deal of cheese, 
iind over that ])ut finely grated bread. Warm some but- 
ter without oiling and pour it fi-om a boat through an 
earthen colander all over the crumbs, then put the dish 
in an oven, to roast the cheese and brown the bread of a 
tine colour. The bread should be in separate crumbs and 
look light. 

MACAKUNI All (JUATrX. 

Boih\- of ilir Householil. 

Lay tried bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your 
macaroni in the usual way and pour it into the dish, 
Miiootli it all over, strew bread-crumbs on it and then a 
thick layei* of giated Parmesan cheese. Drop a little 
ineltt'd ])utter on it, and colour it with a sahiuiander. 

MACARONI DRKSSKD SWKET. 

Book of flw Household. 

boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of ndlk, with a 
hit of lemon-peel and a good ])iece of cinnamon till the 
pipes are swelled lo their utmost size without breaking. 
hay them on a custar<l dish and pour a hot custard over 

tlieni. 



CHAPTER XVII. 
EGGS. 



TO KEEP EGGS FRESH. 

Mrs. Bangfi. 

ri'^VVO oallons of water mixed witli half a pint of salt 
I and half a pint of unslacked lime. Make the pickle 
with boilinj,^ water. Put it cold to the eggs. Let the 
eggs be new laid and perfect ; quite covered with the 
lime water and kept in a cool place. 

ST I" FEED EGGS. 

Mrs. Donaldson. 

Take ten eggs, boil hard, peel and cut ofi' the small ends, 
then take out the yolks ; rub into a bowl and mash well, 
then add a teacupful of bread-crumbs, teacupful of milk, 
in half a teacupful of butter, pepper and salt. Fill the 
whites with the dressing, and pour any that is over into 
a dish, and bake to a light V)rovvn. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

The Invalid Cook, 

Take twenty eggs and boil them hard. When cold 
take off the shells, and put them into a deep jar. Pour 
boiling pickle over them, and when cold tie them down 
tightly. They A^ill be fit for use in about a month, or 
when they have turned colour. For the pickle, take three 



To Fickle Eggs. 



283 



pints of the best white wine vinegar, two ounces of whole 
Uack pepper,one ounce of bruised ginger, two ounces of mus- 
tanl seed, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and a teaspoou- 
ful of salt. Boil these ingredients together for about 
ciirlit or ten minutes after coining to a boil, and then pour 
them inunediately over the eggs. 

CUPPED EGUS. 

Mrs. Thus. McKay. 

Put a spoonful of very nice high-seasoned brown gravy 
into each cup ; set the cup into a saiicepanful of boiling 
water; when the gravy heats, drop a fresh a^^^f into eacli 
cup ; take off the saucepan and cover it close till the eggs 
are tenderly and and nicely cooked ; dredge them with a 
very tine mace or nutmeg and salt, serve then on a hot-. 
watei- plate, covered with a napkin. 

PICKLE FOR E(;(iS. 

Mrs. Thus. McKaij. 

Nine quarts of water, four quarts of salt, one and a 
half ounces of cream of tartar, one (juart of dry lime, 
fresh, dissolved in the water. The same pickle will do 
for several years. It should be made in a tub or barrel. 

TO PICKLE ECrJS. 

Mrs. Thus. McKaij. 

Select three or four doyen of the freshest eggs, which 
put into a large saucepan until the same are boiled thor- 
oughly lianl. Then transpose them into a pan of cold 
water, which admits of the shells being removed with 
},Teater facility. When they are ready, place on the fire- 
side a saucepan, containing half a gallon of good brown 
vinegar, into which put one ounce of whole black-pepper, 
half an ounce of allspice, the same of mace, one ounce of 
race ginger, a few cloves and garlic, and one ounce of gait, 



284 



The Canadian Economist. 



with a tablespDonlVil of mustard seed. Let tlie viingar 
continue seetliing for one hour, until the essential projxr- 
ties of the spices are taken up by the licpior. Theti care- 
fully lay the egjjjs whole in as many jars as are recjuirt'd 
to lu)ld them, and having- taken otl" the vinegar, and per- 
mitted it to become quite cold, pour it over the eygs in 
the jars, taking care to submerge them in the pickle. 
Finally, cover them closely, and place them in a cool 
apartment. Use them in a month. A nice garnish for 
cold meat. 

TO KKEP K(;(iS. 

Mry. Thos. McKn;i. 

When (piite new laid, butter well with fiesh butter. 
Remember if a pin's point is passed over, the ecfg spoils; 
rub it well all over them and |)lace in jais, shaking over 
each layer of eggs bran, dry sand or salt. Wash them 
when about to use them, and you wouM say they have 
only been laid to-dav. 



! 



TO FI{Y KOGS. 

Mrs. Thus. MrKau. 

To fry eggs nicely requires some little attention, a.s they 
are apt to become hard, black, and luipalatable. There 
should be plenty of butter, lard, or dripping, and care 
taken not to let them be overdone. If ham or bacon is 
fried with them, it must be done tii'st, ami the eggs after- 
wards. 

E(iG CHKESK. 

J7y.s. Thos. McKii/j. 

Beat six eggs well and put them into three gills of new 
milk, with sugar, cinnamon and lemon-peel to your lik- 
ing. Set it over the fire, keep stirring it, and .""(luoezc a 
quarter of a lemon into it to turn it to cheese. Let it run 
into whatever sliapo you prefer ; when it is cold, turn it 



Kgifs and Ciunmlnn's. 



!>85 



()ut, and poiii' over it a little alinoiiu cream made thus : 
heat some sweet almonds tine with a little cream ; then 
put into them a pint of cream, let it boil, and strain it; add 
tlie yolks of three eirii's well-l)eaten. Set it over the tire 
and iiinkc it like a custanl. 

PACKING Kf;(;s. 

Mrs. W. B. Mi' Arthur, Carlton Place. 

One pint of mislacked lime, one ]>int of coarse salt, two 
gallons of boilinjj^ water. Let it stand until cold; pack 
the eggs in layers, and pour the liquid over. 

EfiGS AND SAUSAGE. 

How *o cook (>(fi/H in 100 different /fv^/y.s'. 

Cut son^e slices of Bolo<(na or Spanish sausage. Toss 
them in hutter or olive oil. Vry them nicely, and lay on*; 
on each piece of sausage ; arrange among them some pars- 
ley leaves, fried crisp, and serve as hot as possil>l(\ 

FRICASEK OV KdCiS. 

Hoiv to cook c[/(/8 ill 100 dif event (rayn, 

Tiike some hard-boiled i'^^^^, cut them into (piarters, 
yolks and whites. Heat some gravy, seasoned with shred 
lemon-peel, parsley, thyme and grated nutmeg. Put in 
the eggs, t(>gether with a ])iece of butter rolled in Hour ; 
shake it gently over th(^ fire until ])roperly thickened ; 
;:farnish with artichoke bottoms, sliced thin and fried, and 
tufts of hard boiled eggs chopped small. 

KCdS ANO crcUMHKRS. 

Hon- to ruo/i 0(jgf< in 100 different lua/js. 

Pare some cucumbers and cut them into pieces, the size 
of (lice. Put them into a stew-pan with a slice of ham 
and an onion stuck with cloves, and a few spoonsful of 



28f) 



The Canadian Economifif. 



' 



good gravy; .siniinor it slowly, sliaking it occasionallv 
until done. Take out the liam and onion ; stir into it tho 
yolks of two eggs beaten up in a teacupful of cream. 
Put it into a dish, lay half a dozen poached eggs on tlic 
top, and scjueeze some lemon juice over it. 

EGGS LIKK TIUPE. 

Jfow fo cook f'f/g.H hi 100 different icays. 

• 

Hard boil a dozen eggs and cut them into slices ; peel 
some small pickling onions, and fry them gently in hutttr 
over a slow fire ; dust them with f1o\n\ Moisten tliein 
with equal (|iiantities of stock andcivam, add a little salt 
and pe}>i)er and stew them till (juite tender; then add tlic 
eggs, and give them a warm uj); serve as hct as possible. 

KCGS AND ONIONS. 



Fry som 
large spiii 
them from 
fire to dry 
them, and 
Serve verv 
ejjffs three 
persons. 



(Jdi^selVs Dictionary. 

i}. onions nicely sliced in butter. Put a rather 

doling of cayenne pej)per over them. Drain 

the butter and put them on a dish before the 

a little. Press out the juice of a lemon over 

then lay nicely poached eggs on the top. 

hot ; time to fry onions five minutes ; to poach 
to four minuter,, six eggs sufficient for three 

ECUS AND POTATOES. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 



Boil seven or eight fiowery potatoes and mash them 
while quite hot; add one ounce of butter, the yolk of an 
^gg, pepper and salt, and if liked a little pounded onion 
and boiled mince parsley. Roll the potatoes into egg-like 
shape, brush them over with beaten eggs, and cover with 
fine bread crumbs, well seasoned with salt and white pep- 
per. Put them into an oven to brown, or fry in lard or 



hJggs FricafiscccL 



287 



(Irifijiing till they are of a fine brown colour. Lay them 
before the hre to drain, and serve garnished with fried 

prsley. 

BEATINd IGOS. 

CasscJl's J) icf iona ry. 

Tliis is best done with rods of wood, in a shallow, fiat- 
bottomed pan; bestow the beating with short, ([iiick, 
downward strokes, without moving the elbow, which 
sbould be kei)t close to the side. When the foaming and 
l)ul)l>les disappear, and the lieaten eggs assume the ajjpear- 
iinc'c which has been well described as that of a lich 
boiled custard, your task will have been very well accom- 
plisbed. 

FOGS BROILED. 

CasseWs Dicfionary. 

Cut a slice the whole j'ound of a quartern loaf, toast it 
liglitly, trim the edges, and lay it on a dish before the fire, 
with some hits of butter placed over it. When thi.'i melts, 
break or spread carefully six or eight on the toast. Have 
ready a salamander, and when the eggs are sufficiently 
done, squeeze a Seville orange, or grate some nutmeg over 
them. 

EOOS FllICASSEKD. 

CdssclTs Dictioiiavij. 

Dissolve two ounces butter in a stewpan, and stir into 
it a little floui*. Boil eii^ht C'J'i'S hard, cut them after tak 
mg off the shell into quarters, add thei'.i to the butter in 
the stewpan, throw ever them a good quantity of shred 
parsley, a little nutmeg and salt, and shake the pan round 
till the ingredients are well absorbed by the eggs, then 
throw in a small cupful of cream, shake the pan again, 
and do not break the eggs. When the sauce is thick and 
fine, put the eggs on a dish and serve with the sauce 
thrown over, and a garnish of lemons around the dish. 



288 



7'Ac Canadian Economisf. 



STKAMKI) K(jr,S. 

Caf*seirN Dictionavij. 

Bleak liJilf a «l()zen of^gw into separate nips, and liavr 
ready a well buttered dish, into which each egg should 
he placed car(>fidly. (!over the dish to prevent the licnt 
from escaping, and set it over a ])an of boiling watei-, Hist 
putting small bits of butter lightly over the top of tin- 
eggs. When they are set sufficiently, sprinklt- them with 
a little salt, and serve with fried ham or sausages. 

SIM'X E(J(!S. 

( 'axsit'irs Diet ton art/. 

This preparation is used principally 'cs a garnish for 
other sweet dishes. Prepare a syrup of sugar and water. 
and beat up eight eggs with a dessertspoonful of arrow- 
root. Boil the syrup in a large stewpan, and when it is 
(piite hot force th<' mixture of egg and ai-rowroot throiigji 
a colander into the boiling syrup. 

cr KRIKl) F.(i(;s. 
3frs\ WhH<\ Br<((l/<mi Pa. 

Three hard-boiled eggs, one ounce of butter, half pouml 
of flour, half a ])int of milk, pepper and salt, one dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder, om; teas[)oonful of vinegar. 
Vjxxi the e;j:gs in slices, melt the butter, stir in the flour. 
add the milk, stir until it boils, add (Mutv powder, .sug...\ 
vineijar, and eircrs. 

TO KEKP KG(J.S. 

Mrs. Yoiittg, Gall. 

Put the eggs into boiling water, and keep them there 
until you can count twenty. Then pack them in salt. A 
basket can be used for putting the eggs into the water. 



Ey(jH tritk AsparagiLs. 289 

TO IMCKLE EGGS. 

Anonymous. 

To tn^^lit cg^s <uu' pint of vin('<^'ar, luilt-ouncc of whole 
|u'|>j)f'!-, and lialf-(»unc(^ of wliiteginger. Boil thoeggs from 
twclvt! to fift<M'n niinut«'s. Dip in coM watorand remove 
till' sliells. lii't tlio .spice simmer in tlie vinegar ten 
iiiiimtes. i*ut tlie eggs in a jar and pour tlie spiced vin- 
c<,'ar on wliile hot. When cold, tie «lo\vn, and carefully 
exclude the air. They Avill he tit for use in a month. 

K(iG OMKLKT. 

M'lSH Mcliea, Renfrew. 

Heat six eggs (aft«'r seasoning with pepper and salt) 
\vli«'n ready for the pan, add two tahlespoonsful of sweet 
milk, have the hutter in the pan nicely hrowned hefore 
|>utting in the omelet. When well done cut in two and 
ilotiblo together. 

KG({ liOI-LS. 

Book of f/w Hoii)<eholil. 

Boil a (piart of new milk with half a pound of butter, 
the same of lanl and a little salt, heat up two eggs and 
))our the boiling milk on them stirring all tluj time. 
Wlitn nearly cold add a teacupful of yeast and as nmch 
wheat rioui' as will make it a tliick batter. Wlien (juite 
lij,'ht knead it up as bread and let it lighten before mould- 
ing out, grease the |)aiis and bake them with a moderate 
lieat. A little sugar and water rubbed on just before 
baking rolls makes them glo.ssy. 

EGGS WrTH ASPARAGUS. 

Booh of the Household. 

Out some asparagus that has been previously boiled the 
S^me .sj;5e as p^^s, bieaJi sijy eop iijto ^ basin, b^at tht^'Kl 
19 



290 



The Canadian KconomiHt. 



up, put thoiii with a little pepper, salt and the !i.spara<,Mi,s 
into a Htewpan with two ouuce.s of hutter and keep stir- 
ring' all the tinjo it is on the tire. When it heeonies thick 
it is done, tlien i)ut a toast on the disl I pour the e»;u,s 
and aspara^^us on tlie toast. Tliis sh ..i be served up 
immediately when done, for if permitted to stand it will 
rot be done. 

ECUS AND ANCHOVIKS (iN SAVOV .IKLLV). 

Booh of the llonsrhold. 

Take ten jLjjood anehovies, clean them, eut them into 
shreds and lay tliem on a ])late, poaeli tive e<^^rs in vin('<^^jir 
and water, and as you poaeh them put them in cold water, 
then tak<! a plain mould and into the bottom of the nntiiM 
put a little savoy jelly. As soon as it is set take the an- 
chovies and neatly eioss them on the Uy. Trim voiir 
eggs very nicely and witlicare, lay th n the anchovies 

and neatly pour on a little jelly nearly cold. When the 
anchovies are well set fill up the moidd, keep it on ice till 
it is wanted and then turn it out like any other jelly. 





CHAPTER XVIII 
«AU DS. 

'SALAD. 

^ ^V,w. Cravhet, Montreal 

f^in ' "ilL' ivivv vnlL' ^ 1 . './'"KSOr rJiri'o li.i.. I 1 •• , 

.«i ;;t';f ""•^'^" -^'-''. one t^:!^,:^::;'^c& 

LORSTKii ,S,U.AD. 
CHICKEN SALAD. 



vint'(r.,. * \f ' ^^ made mn^h... i . *' ^ ^T-Venne 



""^^£is«:s;f£s 



292 



The Canadian Economist. 



and mix the whole well together with a silvbi* fork. Gar- 
nish the dish with tlie whites of the eggs and the leaves 
of the lettuce. The wliites can l)e cut into scallops or as 



fancv 8uij<;e;4s. 



LOHSTER SALAD. 



J/r.s. S. W. Dijih, Ottawa. 

For a niediuni sized lobster take two tablespoonsful of 
best olive oil to three of vinegar, three teaspoonsfiil of 
mustard, a sprinkle (>f cayenne pepper, one hard-boiled 
egg. Mix together and garnish with lettuce. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Miss M., Klii<jf<ton. 

Boil a chicken that weighs not niore than a pound anil 
a half. Wlien very tender take it up, cut in small strips, 
take six or seven fine white heads of celery, scrape and 
wash them. Out the white part in pieces about tlnro- 
(juarteis of an inch long, mix it with the meat of the 
ibvvl. Place the delicate leaves of the celery around the 
edges of the dish. Just before the salad is sent in, pour 
over it a dressing made thus : — Boil four eggs hard, nil) 
their yolks to a smooth paste with two tablespoonsful of 
olive oil, two teaspoonsful of mad<^ nuistard, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one teacupful of strong vinegar. Whiti 
heart lettuce may be used instead of celery an<l any utlui 
dressing if preferred. 

SALAD MIXTURE. 

One raw Qg^, one saltspoonful of salt, heat luitil tli<i- 
roughly smooth, then incorporate one teaspoonful of thick 
mustard ; when these are quite smooth, add by degrees 
one, two or three tablespoon.sful of good salad oil, Mend 
each portion with the ('^^^ before adding more. This 
ought to make a!iy quantity up to a teacu})ful as thieK 
and amooth as honey. With vinegar make of the thick* 



(^licken Salad. 
nm of thick cean,. A littln , , ^"^ 

ki;^ :<!"s- ,.*-/" ''^'"i:: ; : i -„e«^, f.a,f „ 






ove,-,t. <-'^''l%'<-' h,„, an,! ,„„, n,„ ,1_,J^^._';" 

nRKSS..N-fi Tm SAt.AD, 

llii-oo eggs, one taI,l,.s|,o„nf„i r 
^^te and add the J.st thin i ■" '''''^^« «*'tlic e.>-c.s s™ ' 

■''•^'^ey of lK,ile,I c.sta!,,. '"^ "-"""»'' '<> '"'^l^e of ti;o'c'ot 

t'"'<'KK>f SAr.AD. 

" '-""«'<- »n'l celery, and"tlro',;,',^j;'-^->; '"'"■• ''t 



294 



The Canadian Economist 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Miss Minnie White, Hamilton. 

To one chicken the yolks of four eggs, beaten up with 
half a cupful of milk. Put on the stove and stir briskly. 
When warm add half a cupful of vinegar; when it thickens 
remove from the fire. Mustard, pepper and salt may lie 
added when cold ; put the dressing on the minced chicken 
boiled, and celery w ith chicken. Dress the dish with 
celery leaves. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Kiinhalls, New York, iiev Mrs. White. 

Cut fine one chicken and one head of celery. Salad dress- 
ing: — Beat the yolks of thr(*.i hard-boiled eggs smooth, to 
each egg one teaspoonful of made mustard, half as much 
salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter or oil, a wineglassfnl 
of strong vinegar. Cut whites of eggs in rings and place 
round the dish for ornament. 



' FRESH TOMATOES. 

Home Messe/nger. 

These make a delightful salad sliced, and having a tahlc- 
ppoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of oil, a saltspoonful of 
mustard, and a saltspoonful of salt poured over theui. 

SIMPLE POTATO SALAD. 

Home Messenger. 

Boil your potatoes, then skin and s\':2C while hot into a 
covered vegetable dish ; have all ready. A dressing:— 
One-third of a tencupful of boiling water, one-third or more 
of vinegar, and a little more oil than vinegar; slice a 
small onion thin, and lay between the layers of potato; 
when the dish is full, pour the dressing over it; cover 
end put away to cool. Just before serving, stir it with a 



Miss Smith's Mayonnaise. 



296 



salad fork or spoon. Mix the oil, vinegar, salt and pepper 
well together, and then add the hot water. 

CHICKEJi SALAD. 

J fame Mensewjcr. 

Boil until tender two nice fowls, throw into the water 
a siiiall handtul of rice, which will make the meat white. 
When cold, cut with a sharp knife into pieces about one 
quarter inch square ; add one (piart of celery cut coarse ; 
mix well togethei*. Boil six eggs very hard ; take the 
yolks and stir with the bowl of a spoon, adding one gill 
of tal)le oil or melted butter, until the consistency of 
cream, one teaspoonful of pepper, two tablespoonsful of 
mixed mustard, one teacupful of strong vinegar, one and a 
half cupful of grated horse-radish, one and a half cupful of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of salt, beat well one and a half 
iioui- before using; mix well with the chicken before serv- 
ing. Ornament the top of the dish with the tops of the 
celery and the whites of the eggs. 



SALAD DRESSING. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

Rub the hard-boiled volks of three efjffs till smooth, and 
mix in a saltspoonful of powdered loaf-sugar, half a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, and the well-beaten yolk of a 
raw i}g<g ; add giadually four tablespoonsful of thick cream, 
and two tablespoonsful of stiained lemon juice ; beat the 
dressing thoroughly between every addition. 

MISS smith's mavonxaisk. 

Anonymous. 

Five eggs beaten separately, two tablespoonsful of mixed 
mustard, butter of the size of an \i<g'g, two teaspoonsful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of red j)epper, three tablespoonsful 
ot" the finest table oil, one pint of thick cream ; scald the 



296 



The Canadian Economist. 



cream, stir in tlio yolks and rontinuc to stir until it be- 
gins to thicken, then add the mustard, salt, &c., and two 
or three tables] )oonsful of very stioni,^ vinegar ; then let 
it cool and add the \vhij)|)ed iVoth of the eggs ; beat all 
thoroughly together; do not pour over the chukeii an<l 
celery until just befoie using. 

BOILED SALAD. 

Cin^f^elVs Diet 10)1 ary. 

This is best com])ounded of boiled or baked onions (if 
Portugal, the better), some baked beet-root, cauliHowtM', 
or brocoli and boiled celery and Fiench beans, or any of 
these articles with the common salad dressing ; add to this, 
to give it an enticing appearance, and to give some of the 
crispness and freshness so pleasant in salad, a small (juan- 
tity of raw endive or lettuce and chervil, or burnet strewed 
on the top. This is by far more wholesome than the raw 
salad, and is much eaten when j)ut on the table. The 
above sauce is equally good with cold meat, cold fish, oi- 
for cucumbers, celery, radishes, »k:c., and all the other vege- 
tables that are sent to table undressed. 



EVKRY-DAY SALAD. 

Caiiseirs D id lo n ary. 

In warm weather, cold meat sent to table with a oood 
salad and little cucumber or pickle, often proves more ae- 
ceptable than the most expensive joint if served hot. To 
make the salad, wash one or two lettuces, throw away the 
outer and decayed leaves, and wash the otheis, handling 
them as lightly as ])ossible ; drain then) and <lry them 
perfectly, first by shaking them in a colander or salad 
basket, and afterwards by shaking them in a napkin held 
loosely by the four corners ; when the napkin has ah- 
sorbed all the moisture, shred the lettuce with a silver 
knife, if possible ; rub the salad bowl three or four times 



Forced Eggs for Salad. 



297 



across with a clove of garlic or with a slice of onion, and 
nut in the shred lettuce ; mix tlioroughly in the salad 
spoon a saltspoonful of salt, half a one of pepper, and a 
niustardspoonful of mixed mustard. Sprinkle the season- 
ing^ over the salad and woik it well in; pour upon it as 
iiiiu'li lucca oil as will cover it, and work this in ; then 
aikl a table.spoonful of ^ood vinegar, and, if it can be had, 
a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. The salad should 
not be mixed till the moment of serving. If liked, shred 
ceU'rv, a head of endive, small salad, water-cress, sliced 
beetroot, sliced cucumber, spring radishes and chopped 
green onions may be added to the salad. 'Plenty of time 
must be given for drying the lettuce perfectly, as the suc- 
cess of a salad depends in a great measure upon the let- 
tuce lieing (piite dry. 

SALAD FOR WINTF^U. 

Take young, tender- colewort plants, sorrel lettuce, en- 
dive, celery, parsley, full-grown onions, which are bettei" 
to cut and eat in winter with salads than young ones, and 
season them with salt, cream and vinegar ; add sugar, if 
approved. 

FORCED EGOS FOR SALAD. 

Bow Bells. 

Pound and press through the back of a hair-sieve the 
tlesh of three very fine, or of four modei'ate sized, ancho- 
vies, freed from the bones and skin; boil six fresh eggs 
for twelve minutes, and when they arc perfectly cold 
halve them lengthwise, take out the yolks, pound them to 
a paste with a-third of their volume of fresh butter, then 
add the anchovies, half a teaspoonful of mace, and as 
nuich cayenne as will season the mixture well ; beat the.se 
together thoroughly, and fill the whites of eggs neatly 
with them ; a morsel of garlic not bigger than a pea, pei- 
fectly blended with the other ingredients, greatly im- 
proves this preparation. 



298 



The Canadian Economist. 






CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Family Fnend. 

Boil a cauliflower in salted water till tender, Imt not 
overdone; when cold cut it up neatly in small sjnigs; 
beat up together three tablepoonsful of oil and one of 
tanagon vinegar with pepper and salt to taste ; rub tlie 
dish slightly with garlic, ariango the pieces of cauliflower 
on it ; strew ovei- them some capers, and serve. 



v^^' 
^i^ 



^ 



CHAPTER XIX. 
PIES. 



CRKAM PTE. 

Mrs. Allowny, Wlnnijx'f/. 

BOIL nearly one pint of new milk ; take two small 
tablespoonsful of corn starch beaten with a little 
milk, to this add the yolks of two eggs when the milk has 
boiled ; stii* this in slowly with sugar to sweeten it, and 
a tahlespoonful of butter — flavour with vanilla. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE, 

Miss Berry, Toronto. 

Three cupsful of stewed apples, nearly a cupful of white 
sugar, six eggs, one quart of milk. Make the stewed apple 
very sweet and let it cool. Beat the eggs light and mix 
the yolks well with the apple, seasoning with nutmeg 
only, then stir in gradually the milk, beating as you go 
on; lastly add the whites. Fill your crust and bake 
without cover. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Miss Berry, Toronto. 

Three eggs, three-fourths of a cu})f ul of white sugar, two 
tahlespoonsful of butter, one of orange juice, and half the 
grated rind of half a lemon, juice and grated peel, nutmeg 
to taste. Cream the butter and sugar, beating in the 
orange and lemon until very light ; add the beaten yolks, 



300 



The Canadian Economist, 



fill two pastry shells and l>ako. Beat the whites stiff 
witli two tablespoonsfiil of powdered su<^'ar, and wht'n the 
pies are done spread over them, returning them to tlic 
oven for two or three minutes. 

APPLE M KIU NO UE PIE. 

Ml^ts Berry, Toronto. 

Stew and sweeten ripe juioy apples; when yoii have 
pared and sliced them, nuisli smooth and season witli nut- 
meg if you like the flavour. Stew some lemon-peel witli 
the ap})le and remove when cold. Fill your crust ami 
bake until just done. Spread over the apple a tliick 
meringue made l»y whipping to a .stiff' froth the wliitos of 
three eggs for ench pie, sweetening v>'ith a tablespoonfiilof 
powdered sugar iov each Q<T^<f. Flavour this with ro-ewater 
or vanilla, Ijeat until it will stand alor.e, and cover the 
pie three-fourths of an inch thick. Set back in the oven 
until the meringue is well .set. Should it colour too dark- 
ly, sift powdered sugar over when ccld. 

CHEAM PIE. 

MIhh Berry, Toronto. 

Six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, two cupsful of flour, two 
teaspoonsful of cieam of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in two teaspoonsful of cold milk ; lub thcereaiii 
of tartar in the flour. This quantity makes three pies. 
Bake them ; when cold split them and put in the cream. 

Cream for inside — One pint of milk, one cupful of 
sugar, half a cupful of flour, two eggs. Beat eggs, sugar 
and flour together, and pour into the milk when boiling; 
juice and grated rind of a lemon. Flavour with vanilla. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Brown, Ottaica. 

For one Pie- — One esri?, one soda cracker, one lemon: 
grate the rind, and mix the pulp with a fork. Two table- 



Jelly Tarts. 



301 



spoonsful of white sugar ; wet the cracker with hot water 
and use pufF paste. 

LEMON PIE. 

il//6.s M(Ujij'u> Bautin, Dnulfurd, Pa. 

Yolks of three eg;i(s, one cupful of white sugar, one cupful 
of milk, one large lemon, grate the rind, cut off the tough 
skin and chop the })ul|>; one tahlespoonful of cornstarch 
or tlour. Fill a rich crust with this ; heat the whites of 
throe eggs to a stitf froth ; ad<l four teaspoonsful of white 
siiLjar, and wlien baked spread this on the top and bake 
lightly. 

APPLE CUSTARD PFE. 

Miss M(i</(ji(' Bantin, Bradford, Pa. 

Take nice sweet apples, pare and grat(^ fine, add sweet 
milk as for pumpkin pie, one egg to a pie ; add sugar to 
taste. Bake with one crust. 

LEMON PIE (simple AND CIOOD). 

Mrs. Baldwin, Ottawa. 

Line pie-plate with a rich ei-ust, peel and slice one and 
a halt' lemon into it, takin.r out all seerls. Beat toirether 
three vggs, one cupful of sugar and one of water, and pour 
over the lemons. Cover with crust and bake. 

jelly tarts. 
Mrs. H. F. Brunson, Ottawa. 

One pound of sifted flour, three-fourths of a pound of 
hiitter rubbed in well ; mix with about a pint of cold 
water in which a bit of sal-volatile the size of a large pea 
'li>solved in a little cold water lias been put. Beat the 
whole with the rolling pin and cut into round cakes; wet 
tlie tO|) with a beaten egg, and strew ou white sugar, 



302 



The Canadian Economist. 



Bake in a (juick oven, and when done put a sj)oonful of 
jelly in the centre of each, 

IIKAL CRKAM PIE. 

Mvn. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One pint of sweet cream, one rin)fiil of s ijjjar, two large 
tablespoonsful of corn-starch. Heat the yolks of two eg<]f,s 
with tlie corn-starch thor()U<;hIy ; then scald in hoilin;; 
water until thick enoui^h for pie. Bake crust separate. 
Fill when cold. 

FINE PUFF PASTRY. 

Miss Cannichacl, liri/so:'. 

One pound of butter, three cupsful of tloui* ; cut the Imt- 
ter through the flour, one cupful and u half of ice water, 
the whites of two ejjfL's. Avoid kneadino;. Boil out. Use 
the hands as little as possible in mixing. 

CHICKEN POTIME. 

Mrs. S. CJiridie. 

One bowlful of Hour, one teaspoonful of salt, two tea- 
spoonsful of baking [xnvder, one cupful of sweet milk, two 
eggs. Mix in the baking })Owder and salt in the flour, stir up 
the eggs and milk, and mix all together. Drop the liattei 
in by spoonsful, but first take the pot ott'the stove to let 
it ort' the boil. The batter is added twenty minutes before 
the chicken is done. 

LEMON PIK. 

il/rs. S. Christie. 

One cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn -starch, juice 
of one lemon, yolks of two eggs. Mix together as foi- cus- 
tard. Pour over one cupful of boiling watei", and cool until 
thick. The crust is nice, if cooked before the filling i^ 
added, pricking it well with a fork. Whites frothed for 
the top with sugar and flavouring, and brown lightly. 



Cream Pie. 



;M)3 



CORN-STAUCH 1MB. 

M)'8. S. Christie. 

TIk' yolks of six e<;gs, thive pints of milk, six tal)lo- 
s|H)oiisfiil of white sii«^jir, two tahh'spooiist'ul of (;oni-starcli, 
vanilla and lemon. Boil tlicMnilk, stir in the corn-starch, 
wet in a little coM milk, and hoil one luinute. When 
nearly cold, stir in the su<^ar, yolks of all the e<j^«jfs, and 
whites of two. Poni" into paste shells and set in the oven. 
Whip the remaining whites, tlavonr and sweeten and ponr 
over the top. ])o this qnickly, lest the custard fall, brown 
li-rhtly. Eat cold. 

Al'I'LK IMKS. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

Pare, co. ., and slice some apples. Fill your pie-plate, 
I' not having any undercrust. Mix up a biscuit crust, a litth; 
shorter is better, do not roll very thin, and having sea- 
soned and sweetened the apjiles, lay the paste over the 
top, a pint of crust for one pie is about the cpiantity used. 
When done, lay a plate over the top, and turn your pie 
out. It will thus have no top-crust. Must be eaten 
warm with cream. 

(■REAM PIE. 
Mrs. Donnchj, Ironsides. 

Thre eeggs,one cupful of sugar, two tnblespoonsful of cold 
water,withapinchof soda dissolved init,alsoapinchof salt, 
one and a half cuj)sful of Hour, with a teaspoonful and a half 
'if baking powder. Baked in Sandwich tins, a hot oven 
to be required. The following is the tilling to be used : 
<»ne cupful milk, beat nearly all with one egg and a cupful 
and a half of sugar and scald with rest of milk. Mix two 
tablespoonsful of corn-starch, add to the other slowly, and 
let it boil till it thickens, stirring constantly. Best fla- 
voured with vanilla. 



804 



The Canadian Economist. 



.SEA KOAM PIK. 

Mrs. Den'ftr. 

Take one I'iinon, f^rate tl»e pc«'I, siiuccva; the |)iil|> and 
juice into a Itowl. Be sure to remove every .see<l, to wliicli 
add a teaeiint'ul of wliitc s.ii^ai", one oF milk, a tal»i<'s|i(K)ii- 
\\\\ of «'()rn-slaich and tlic v<)li<s of two <'i>jrs. Pom- tliis 
mixture in a niee ei'ust ; hake slowly. Heat the wliitc^ 
of two e^'«^s to a stiH'irotli, pour it over tlie pie wIumi done 
Return it to tlie oven long enou;^di to stitt'en, not toln.twn 

LKMON PIKS. 

Mrs. Winsloic. 

Take thrive j^ood lemons, roll tliem until soft, take tin 
juices out into a dish, |)ic*k out the seed, cdio[) the pe(d vt'iv 
tine, chop one teaeupful of raisins, add the whole togetlicr 
witli one and a half cupful of molasses; stir it well, put in 
a little water and tlour. Do not hurry the haking, as it 
will run out. 

EC'ONOMICAI. PASTRY. 

Mis. Winslow. 

Take one pound of Hour, ruh half a pound of lard.droji- 
ping water in a little at a time in order that the Hour will 
not he sticky ; as you mix the watei- in, ))ut the <loui,d) td 
one side, so that it will not get wet again, it spoils tlv 
paste. Add a teaspoonful of salt. 

PUFF PASTE WITH MILK. 

Mi's. Wnisloii'. 

Mix with a spoon three-(piarters of n ])ound of hutter. 
Avith one pound of tlour, then add milk enough to jnoi.ston 
the whole, so as to roll easily. Do not mould it with tlif 
hands at all, or as little as possible, ajid the crust will l^^" 
found much nicer made in that way tliau in the old ways 
requiring more labour, 



Cheese Pie. o05 

PIE PLANT PIE. 

Mrs. Geovije Elliott, Ottawa. 

Oiu' cupful (»f Htowed pie plant, one cupful of auj]far, one 
tal>lt'H|)0()uful of Hour, yolk of one cljl;; Havour with loinon, 
beat all together tin n'ouglily. Don't use pie plant to) hot 
for f«'ar it will cook the egg. Bake with just an under- 
crust and use white of an egg for frosting. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. George KUlott, Ottawa. 

One lemon rind and juice, one cupful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of water, one tahlespoonful of corn-stareh cooked in 
water till thick, three eggs, two of whites saved for frost- 
'wvf, half a cupful of sugar. 

LEM(>N PIE. 

Mr». Garland. 

One eg^, one lemon, one cupful of hrovvm sugar. Beat 
well together and bake in putt' paste ; when baked spread 
over the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth and sweet- 
ened. • 

LEMON PIE. 

Anoni/moitfi. 

Boil one pint of new milk with two ounces of butter, 
and pour on three well-beaten eggs. When quite cool add 
the juice of one lemon and the peel finely chopped. Pour 
into a dish lined with puff paste. Bake in a cool oven. 

CHEESE PIE. 

Mrs. (Hon.) Grant, Plctou, K. S. 

One half-pound of grated cheese, two eggs, one teacup- 
ful of cream, one teaspoonful of salt. Grease a shallow 

20 



306 



The Canadian Economist. 



plate, in it put the cheese and butter in small pieces ; heat 
tlie eggs, add the cream and salt, and poui'over the clicese. 
Bake in a (piick oven ten minutc^s. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. W. Ifufrhisov. 

Two pounds of beef, two pounds of su(!t, two poun<ls of 
raisins, two pounds of currants, four |)()unds of apples, two 
pounds of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, spicco — peppoi-, 
allspice, cinnamon, ground cloves, mace, a quai't of swi'et- 
cider. Chop the meat, suet, and fruit tine. Mix all well 
together. 

<)RANGK TIE. 

Mrs.W. M. llidch'imn. 

The juice and i-ind of an oi-ango, one cupful of sugar, the 
yolk of two ^)^^^^, two tablespoonsful of flour, a teacup- 
iul of milk ; line the dish with paste, pour in the custards. 
Bake till done ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
add four tablespoonsful of pulverized sugar, spread it on 
the pie and brown lightly. 

, LEMON PIR. 

Mrs. McTaggarf, Nev Kdi nlmrr/li . 

Two tablespoonsful of melted butter, ten tal>le,spooiisful 
01 sugar, one cupful of milk or cream, two lemons, white ot 
one egg, yolks of three eggs, a little corn-starch. Frostiwi 
for pie. W^hites of two eggs, four tablespoonsful of siio^ar. 

MINf'^ '.TEAT. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Eoil one pound of the lean of fi-esh beef When it is 
quite cold, chop it fine, chop one and a half of beef suet, 
and three juicy apples that have been pared and cored, 



wm 



Lemon Pie. 



307 



throe pounds of raisins chopped, three pounds of currants 
well washed and dried. Mix all together, add two table- 
spoonsful of ground cinnamon, two grated nutmegs, one 
pound of brown sugar, one pint of molasses, half a pound 
of citi'on. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Mr.^. McGillh'ray. 

Joint the chickens which should be young and tender. 
Boil them in just sufficient water to cover them. When 
nearly done take them out of the liquor and lay them in 
a tleep pu<lding dish, lined witli pie-crust, add a little of 
the liquor in which they were boiled, and a couple of 
ounces of butter and a little salt. Sprinkle flour over the 
whole, cover it with nice pie-crust and ornament the top 
with some of your pastry. Bake it in a (juiciv oven one 
liour. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. (Her. K.) McLennan, P. K. 1. 

Six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, two cupsful of fiour, one 
teaspoonful of soda, and two teaspoonsful of" cream of tar- 
tar. Beat the su^XJir and eofixs toifether. The cream. Three 
e<,'g.s (yolks only), one tablespoonful of flour, and two table- 
spoonsful of corn-staich ; sweetene<l and flavour to taste, 
add one pint of fresh milk to it. When nearly cold spread 
it on the cake ; make a stiff whip of the whites of four 
eggs and sugar for the top, and brown lightly in the oven. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. McQaarrie. 

Take four lemons, gnte the rind, squeeze the juice, chop 
the pulp very fine, four teacupsful of sugar, the yolks of 
six eggs, two teacupsful of milk, four tablespoon.sful of corn- 
starch. Beat well together ; cover your pie ])lates with a 
rich puff paste. Fill with the mixture and bake ; beat the 



308 



The Canadian Economist. 



whites of the egys to a stiff froth, and add six tablespoons- 
ful of white sugar. When the pies are baked, put the froth 
on them and set tliem in the oven until they are of a 
delicate brown. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Mrs. Phillip Monson, Ottaiua. 

Yolks of six eggs, one cupfid of sugai-, two birge spoons- 
ful of flour, two cupsful of milk. Scald the custard. 
Bake the crust first, then fill with custard. Take tlio 
whites and l)eat to a froth, and add three tablespoonsfiil 
of sugar. 

APPLE PIE. 

il/z's's M. K'nKjHton. 

Pare and chop into small bits half a dozen of easily 
cooked apples. Dry some bread ; roll into ciuinbs ; hiitter 
a dish, ])lace in it a layer of crumbs, a layer of apple, sugar, 
spice and beef suet, chopped as fine as possible, ad(l(<l to 
the crund)s, and so on in alternate layers. Pour in half a 
pint of milk. Bake until nicely browned. Serve with 
hard sauce. 

APPLE PIE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Pare, core and cjuarter the apples ; boil the cores imd 
parings in sugar and water; strain off the licpior, adding 
more sugar ; grate the rind of a lemon over the apples, 
and squeeze the juice into the syrup ; mix half a dozt'ii of 
cloves with the fruit, put in a piece of butter the size of 
a walnut. Cover with puff paste. 

APPLE PIE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Pare and quarter the apples ; scald them. Beat them 
'with a spoon with some of the liquor, add gi'ated lemon- 



Mince Meat. 



309 



peel, the juice of a lemon or Seville orange, or a part of a 
(|uince, when they are to be got, cloves, white sugar, 
finely pounded, and a piece of butter ; put a |)aste around 
the dish, and cover it with bars or flowers of paste — the 
excellence of this pie consisting of the sort of apple, and 
the goodness of the paste. The fruit should be raised in 
the middle, as it shrinks in the baking. 

VKHMICiCLLI PIK. 

Mrs. Tho.s. McKdij. 

Take an earthen dish that is })retty deep, rub the inside 
with two ounces of butter, then spread over it two ounces 
of vermicelli, make a good puff paste, roll it pretty thick, 
and lay it on the dish. Take three or four pigeons, sea- 
son them well with pepper and salt, put a good lump of 
liutter in them, and lay them in the dish with the breast 
dowL ; put a thick lid over them, and bake the pie in a 
mode -ate oven. When done enough turn the pie on to 
tlie dish you intend to serve it on. 

OYSTER I'll-:. 

Mrs. 2'/ios. Mi'Kaij. 

Fifty oysters, three eggs, boiled hard and cut up very 
fine, a few crumbs of bread, a large slice of butter, nut- 
meg, pepper and salt. Bake it in a paste. 

MlNCi; MKAT. 

Mrs. McTavlsli, Os;joode. 

<hie pound of raisin- ch()[)|teil Hue, one and a half 
pounds of currants, half-pound of brown sugar, two j)()unds 
of apj)les, minced fine, one teacupful of sweet cider, two 
mitnu'gs, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon and allspice, half 
a cu[>fnl of molasses, ipiarter of a pound of lem()n and citron 
pvel, one tablespoonful of mixed essence, one pound of 



310 



The Canadian Economist. 



lean beef, minced, mixed line, halfa pound of suet minced 
Hue. 

KIIUHARH PIE. 

J/7'.s. Parr, Ottawa. 

Skin tlie stalks with care, cut into small pieces, and 
stew till soft, with enough sugar to sweeten to taste. 
While hot, stir in two well-beaten eggs to each pie, and 
bake inopen sliells. 

ICED ].KM<»N PIE. 

Mrs. Ritchie. 

For two pies take the grated peel of two lemons and 
juice of two, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, two of 
melted butter, the yolks of four eggs, eight tablespoons- 
ful of sugai- ; bake till done. The whites of four eggs, and 
four tablespoonsful of sifted sugar, beat stiff and pour on 
the pies. Bake three minutes. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

Mrs. tSniitJi, Bristol. 

Halfacu})fulof butter, halfa cupfulof sugar, three-([uai- 
tersof acupfulof milk,twoeggs,oneteaspoonfulof soda,t\vo 
of cream of tartar, which mix in the flour, of which put 
in enough to make it like poundcake. This ipiantity is 
sufficient for two pies. 

CHICKEN POT- PIE. 

Mrf>. Smith. 

Clean, wash an<l cut up 3our chickens. Cook in the 
water enouirh to stew them well. When the chickens are 
done, put the batter on in spoonsful, and when ready 
dish all together. Batter — Nearly a quart of sweet milk, 
tw^o eggs, four pounds of butter, three teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, salt the chickens, of course. 



How to Dry PtDiipkln and Make the Pic. 311 

CREAM PIE. 

J/r.s. Stewart, New York. 

Tliree-(iiiarters of ;i cupful of sugar, the size of an egg of 
hiittcr, one teaspoonful t)f cream of tartar, half a teaspoon- 
t'ulot' soda dissolved in lialf a cupful of sweet milk, mix soft, 
kilt well, and bake (piickly. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Three lemons, four soda biscuits, nine eggs, one (juart 
itt' milk, one cupful of sugar. Grate rind of lemons. 
Strain the juice. Roll the })iscuits, add yolks of eggs and 
milk. Add lemon the last thing. Put whites of eggs 
beaten on the top, after pie has been baked. Return to 
the oven for a few minutes to colour slightly. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

One cui)ful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of milk, two 
I'ggs, one cupful of Hour, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Baked in Sandwich tins, any kind of preserves between 
the layei s. 

COCOA-NUT PIE. 

Miss liohertson, ThorolrJ. 

Take the cocoa-nut and grate it, add the milk and two 
(';,%fs, until the mixture is as thick as custard pie. One 
nut makes two pies. 

HOW TO DRV PUMPKIN AND MAKE THE PIE. 

Mrs. Win slow. 

Perhaps some don't know the best way to dry the 
pumpkin. It is this : — Cut tliem up and stew them until 



312 



The Canadian Economist. 



they are soft and diy, pound and strain tlirough a colander, 
then grease pie-pans and spread it on a ijuarter of an inch 
thick and dry it ; roll it up and put away in a tight ])ox 
or bag from insects. Each one of these rolls will make a 
pie. !lt is very easy now to make a pie. Put it in 
sweet milk and let it soak al)Out tvv(^ hours, put in an egj,', 
a tablespoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of ginger, and one 
of allspice and if you are lovers of pumpuin-pie as we are 
you will pronounce it good. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mi'8. Thompson, (he Mataiva. 

Ten pounds of meat, eight jjounds sugar, six pounds of 
raisins, twenty pounds of ai)})les, two ounces of cinnamon, 
two ounces of allspice, one ounce of cloves, one nutnie*,', 
a little salt. First take beef, head and tongue, boil until 
thoroughly cooked. Set away to cool. Then remove all 
meat from the bones and mince verv finely, first season 
it with a little salt, then add sugar and sj)ices, have the 
apples minced finely, raisins stoned and minced. Add all 
together and mix well and put away in jars. To ensure 
success with this receipt it is necessary to attend jtarti- 
cularly to the hind of meat as speciHe<l. 

LEMON riE. 

Mrs. J. K. Stewart 

Two cupsful of brown sugar, one grated lemon, one whole 
egg and yolks of three, one tablespcjonful of fiour, thin- 
ned with three tablespoonsful of water, two cupsful of cold 
water, a pinch of salt. Beat all well together, then add 
the three whites beaten to a stiti' froth. Stir in lightly. 

GRAPE riK. 

Guide to Housekeepiiig. 

Grapes make the best pies when very tender and 
green. If not very small they should be stewed and 



Custard Pie. 



3] 3 



strained to get out the seeds before they are made into 
pies, sweeten them to the taste when stewed. They do 
not require any spice. If made into a ])ie without stew- 
ing, put to each layer of grapes a thick layer of sugar, 
and a tablespoouful of water. 

cranbp:rry pik. 

Guide to Hoitsekeeping. 

Cranberry pies need very little spice. A little nutmeg 
improves them. They need a great deal of sweetening, 
^t is well to stew the seasoning with them at least a part 
of it. It is easy to add if you find tlu-m too sour for 
your taste. When cranberries are strained and added to 
their own weight in sugar, they make very delicious tarts. 
No u))per crust. 

COMMON M[NCE PIES. 

Guide to HouscheepiiKj. 

Boil a piece of lean fresh beef very tender. When 
cold chop it very fine, then take three times the ((uantity 
of !H)ples, pared and cored and chopped fine, mix the 
meat with it and add raisins, allspice, salt, sugar, cinna- 
mon and molasses to suit the taste, stir the articles well 
together and it will improve by standing over night if the 
weather is cool, a very little ginger improves the flavour 
and so does a teacu[)ful of good grape syrup. 

CUSTARD PIK. 

Guide to Ilousekcep'niij. 

Bull a pint of milk, when nearly cohl add three well- 
beaten eggs, in a little essence of lemon, a pinch of salt, 
imd sugar to taste. Grate nutmeg over and bake with an 
under crust. 



3L4 



The, Canadian Economlat. 



TO MAKE PUFF PASTE. 

Old Cookery Bool'. 

For one pound of Hour allow three-quarters of a [mhukI 
qf butter, mix in about the fourth part of the butter 
amonfj^st the flour, wet it with eoM water; then work it 
until it is very smooth ; cut the paste throuj^di with a 
knife. If it is smooth in the heart it is enough kneaded. 
Roll it out long-ways, and put the butter on it in small 
pieces ; then shake sojne dry flour on it ; fold the two 
ends of it together ; then roll it out a little again and put 
on butter and flour as above, and continue so doing till 
all the butter is taken up. The oftener it is folded the 
more divisions will there be in the paste. Most people 
put eggs in their ])uft'ed paste. It does very well when 
it is to be eaten hot, but when used cold, it makes it very 
tough and hard. 

PASTE FOR COMMON PIES. 

Cassell's Dictionary. 

Very excellent |)astry may be made with lard or drip- 
ping, instead of butter or with a mixture of lard and 
dripping. Good beef-fat, or suet nielted gentl}^ down, and 
poured oft' before it has had time to l)urn, is very nearly 
as good as anything that can be used for making pastry 
for every-day use. Very palatable pies may be luade 
from the dripping from roast beef, veal, pork or mutton, 
though the last-named is thought by some to impart a 
disagreeable flavour of tallow to pastry. The quantity of 
fat used must, of course, be regulated by the expense, juhI 
it may be remembered that a rich crust is neither so 
digestible nor so suitable for many dishes as a substantial 
light one, and that the lightness of pastry depends ([uite 
as much upon a light, quick, cool hand, as on a large 
amount of butter or lard. The addition of a beaten egg 
or a little lemon-juice to the water, or a teaspoonful of 



Fiif Paste. 



315 



baking-powder to the flour, will make the paste lighter. 
it slioiiltl be remembered, however, that, though baking- 
powder is excellent for common pastry, that it is to be 
used immediately ; pies are more likely to get dry when 
it is used. 

PASTE FOR MEAT OR FRUIT PIES. 

Casselis D'utUnuwy. 

Mix the eighth part of a peck of Hour with some cream 
and law eggs. Add half a pound of butter broken in 
pieces, which must not be too small, and roll the paste 
li;,ditly. To make paste for custards, mix the tlour with 
l»()iling water and liuttei", sugar being added if necessary. 
If this is done it will be found to increase the stiffness. 

SHORT PASTE FOR TARIS AND FRUIT PIES. 

CasselUi-i Divtlowiry. 

To one ])ound an«l a (juarter of fine flour add ten ounces 
of fresh butter, the yolks of two beaten eggs, and three 
ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, mix up together with half a 
liiiit of \\Q\y milk, and knead it well. This crust is fre- 
([ucntly iced. 

Pl'FF PASTE. 

CasselVs Dldlonary. 

Dry and sift the flour and prepare the butter by freeing 
it from salt and moisture. E(jual weights of butter and 
tlour may be used, or three-quarters of a pound of butter 
to eadi pound of fiour ; put a little salt into tlie flour and 
make it into a paste by stirring gradually into it with a 
knife ; rather less than half a pint of water. Roll it out 
till it is an inch thick. Divide the butter into quarters: 
break one of these quarters into small pieces, and sprinkle 
these over the paste. Dredge a little flour over it, and 
turn it over, then repeat the process until all the butter 
is incorporated with the paste. Let the paste rest for ten 



316 



The Canadian Economist. 



ininutes bi'tween each two rolls. Equal parts of lard nnd 
butter may be used for this paste, and if the yolk of an 
egg, or the straitied juice of half a lemon be mixed with 
the water in the first instance, the paste will be lighter. 

SUET PASTK FOR IJOII.KI) ITDDINGS. 

CnHxeWs J>uf ion(( r}/. 

Chop very finely six ounces of beef-suet, frred t'lDiii 
skin ami sinew, ami wliile chopping it, keep dredgiii<fa 
little Hour over it. Mix with one pound of Hour, and add 
as much cold water as will make the mixture up into a 
firm, smooth j)aste. Roll it out, and it is ready for use. 
If a richer crust be required, a larger pro|)ortion of siu't 
may be used ; but this is (piito good enough for ordiuiuy 
purpovses. 

GOOD PLAIN PASTRV. 

CasscU't^ Did iona nj. 

Mix a teaspoonful of salt with a pound of Hour; rub in 
Hghtly six ounc(ss of butter or lard, or half butter and 
half lard, and stir water in briskly with a fork. Wlan 
the mixture is smooth and compact, roll it out two or 
three times, and it is ready for use. 

PASTRY POWDER. 

Cafii^elts Dlctiona}'>/. 

Mix thoroughlv two ounces of tartaric acid and two 
ounces of carl)onate of soda with four ounces of ground 
rice. Roll the mixture with the rolling-pin to free it from 
lumps, and keej) it in a closely-stoppered, wide-moiitlR'd 
bottle until wanted. When making conniion pastry, put 
a teaspoonful of the powder with every pound of flour; 
and in making cakes allow a heaped teaspoonful to every 
pound of material. This powder will render the pastry 
lighter, and also make it more digestible. 



Pv4 Paste. 



317 



laCH CUKAM PASTK FOR TARTS. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

T)rv and sift a pound of Hour and mix with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a tahlespoonful of crushed loaf-su<:;ar. 
Kill* into it a (juarter of a pound of swoct butter, and mix 
«Ta<lualiy with it sufficient creai 
jtaste. If cream cannot be ha<' 
up with a little milk and 
the paste out two or three tinu , 
possible. 

PUFF PASTK 



make it into a smooth 

<i ei'^rs may be beaten 

atuted for it. Roll 

and use us quickly as 



Mvi*. JohnsfoDr. 

To one pound of sifted Hour add three- (juarters of a 
pound of butter. (Jut in i)ieces the size of a walnut. 
Mix together with a knife ; then add cohi water, turn out 
and roll. When the butter is well mixed with the Hour, 
take a wet towel and roll the paste in, and ])ut in a cold 
place for ten minutes; then take and ndl out again, and 
|iut the paste on buttered ] dates. Beat one egg, and with 
a l)rush wet the edge which is to form the crust. Put 
three layers of paste. Wet each with the lig^f, and bake 
in a (piick oven. 





CHAPTER XX. 

PUDDINGS. 

War)ies Kvery-dCiy Coolxcry. 

FOR boiled })U»l(liii;;s you will reqiiiro (.'itlicr a moiilii.ii 
l)asin, or a i)U(l(lin<j^-elotli. The foi-iiiei* should have a 
close fitting cover, and be rubbed over the inside with Ittit- 
ter before putting the pudding in it that it may not stick 
to the side, the cloth should be dipped in boiling waUr, 
and then well floured on the inside. 

The water must be boiling when the ])udding is ])ut in 
and continue to boil until it is done. If a puddini,Ms 
boiled in a cloth it must be moved frecpiently whilst boil- 
ing, otherwise it will stick to the saucepan. There imist 
always be enough water to cover the pudding if it is 
boiled in a cloth ; but if boiled in a tin mould do not Itt 
the water (juite reach the to]). 

To boil a pudding in a basin, dip a cloth in hot water, 
dredge it with flour and tie it closely over the Inisiii. 
When the pudding is done, take it from the waiter, pluii^^' 
whatever it is boiling in, whether cloth or basin, su<lclenly 
into cold water, then turn it out immediately ; this will 
prevent its sticking. If there is any delay in serviii|,f the 
pudding cover it with a napkin, or the cloth in which it 
was boiled, but it is better to serve it as soon as removed 
from the cloth, basin or mould. 

PRESERVED GINGER PUDDING. 

Warnes Every -day Cookery > 

Time one hour and a half to steam, half an hour to bake ; 
six ounces of butter, six ounces of flour, a pint and a halii 



of b 

jiresi 

Nt 

pint 

the a 
{loini 
lit'loii 
\vhi(( 
]>ii(Mi 

«,'00(1 
hiDM' 

cold. 

|MI(i(ili 



One 
civani ( 
h'nc, siij 
the bat 
i'l a mo 



Haifa 

^vater, oj 
'IihI set 8 
ibui- (.'tnff 

together 
^eivo wit 
''^g« <lav( 



'T'lke or 
^1'^' }oJks 



Queen of Puddinya. 



319 



()uM,:> 
have a 
th Imt- 
)t stick 

f WUtl'V. 

> 

^ put in 
VXwv*, is 
1st lioil- 
ve must 
if it is 
not It't 

It wator, 
. biisin. 

idilenly 

lis will 

inn; the 

liu-h it 

moved 



bake ; ■ 
[l a bait ' 



of boilin*^ milk, six e^ys, a little sugar, hnlf a pound of 
pn'Sfrved ginger. 

Stir the butter and flour over a slow fire, liave ready a 
|)int and a Iwilf of boiling nnlk, and mix it gradually with 
the above over the fire, a<ld the beaten yolks and half a 
pound of preserved ginger, eut u]) line, with the syrup 
li('l(Uiging to it an<l a little powerrd sugar; 'vvell whisk the 
whites of the eggs, add them the last thing, ]»lac(i tlie 
jtudiling in a mould and let it steam. It is extremely 
i^ood baked in a dish with pufl' paste round it, for half an 
hour in a modeiate oven. It nuiy then be seived hot or 
cold. Half the (puintity is enough for a moderate sized 
|iudiiing. 

TWENTY-MINUTE ITDI)IN(}. 

Mrs. It. Blackburn, Knc h\rnihur</h. 

One i'gg, size of a walnut of buttei', one cupful of sour 
ci'.'am or milk, one teaspoonful of soda, api)les chopped 
tino, sugar and sj)ices to taste, a few spoonsful of water ; 
the batter poured over the fruit and bak(» twenty minutes 
ill a moderate oven. 

SNOW PUDDIN(}. 

Mr». Brown, Ottawa. 

Haifa package of gelatine dissolved in a pint of boiling 
water, one cupful of sugar, juice of one lemon ; mix well, 
and set awa}' to cool ; beat to a stitt* froth the whites of 
four eggs, and when the jelly begins to thicken, beat all 
together; when thoroughly niixed pour into a mould, 
serve with rich boiled custard made of the yolks of the 
*'ggs flavoured \\\i\\ lemon. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. Blijtk 

Take one pint of fine bread-crumbs, one quart of sugar, 
tlie yolks of four eggs well beaten, the grated rind of one 



320 



The Canadian Economist. 



lemon, a piece of butter the size of an e,gg ; mix together, 
and bai<;e until well lone ; nov beat the whites of the four 
eggs to a stiff froth, adding a teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar in which has previously boon stirred the juice ot 
the lemon ; spread over the pudding a layer of jelly, and 
pour over the whites of the eggs ; place in the oven until 
lightly browned ; serve with the sauce. 

MOONSHINE PUDDING. 

il/i.s'.s Bdl Bbjth. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, two tablespoonsftil of 
pulverized sugar, three of corn-starch, one teaspoonful of 
extract of lemon ; let milk come nearl\^ to a boil, stir in the 
corn-starch, previoTisly mixed smooth, with a little roM 
milk, cook three or four minutes ; after boiling add a very 
little salt and the su(*ar ; take from the fire and add tln' 
whites of the eggs well beaten, and stir quickly ; add le- 
mon flavouring. >SVf/-(r— Beat the yolks of the eggs with 
two uiiblespoonsful of sugar, bring a cupful of milk to a 
boiling point in a pan of hot water, stir in a^g^^ and siu'ar 
just before it boils ; let this boil U|) once or twice, fiavoiir 
with vanilla ; pnit both pudding and sauce in a cool place, 
or on ice, until cold. 

ORANGE PUDDING, 

Miss Minna Bain, Perth. 

Peel and cut five orange", into thin slices and betwooii 
each layer of orange, sprinkle sugar and cocoa mit, one 
pint of miik sweetened, flavour with a few drops of vanilla 
or lemon, whe-n scalding hot, add the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten lightly, )ne tablespoonful of corn-starch, made 
smooth in a little cold milk, stir this with the beaten egg 
into the milk when it thickens, pour it over the orange; 
beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, add a tablespoonful 
of sugai', and spread on the top of the pudding ; place for 



Rice Padding Without Eggs. g^j 

a feu' minutes into the oven f^ k 

eaten cold. ^ ""^^"^ ^^ brown slightly. To be 

^V/-.s>. E. K. Branson.. 
^>iie quart of milk fnn.. * 1 1 
f xed with a little e,;n " ilk v:^rTf"' "' "'"-^t'-'.-eh. 
"■ e«r„-.sta,-eh, four tablespoonrfi^' K ^""'' «^ ''^''■«'' ^ 
"ilk ivlieii bo in.r ai„l ^, ' *i ' ''"o^i-; putall in tho 

^«ga,., a,.,J .spread over he 'nn,!','""'' ''^!''e^l>o«...sful o 
*t on ICO to cool. PU'hlmg, an.l l,row„ ii^,),^]^ . 

SXOW PUDDINO. 

;'^-:^h:-s^:i^^^ 

l"lf Mn honr or more, .set awl"7' '"''' ''" »•''"''■ well f„,. 
»;»'l «d cu.star(l of tL yM^fl^"^^ '" "^ "'""''I- Make 

; ""Ik. .sugar to taste .sirit wtl .? "^? '^•"' ''"'f " l^'nt 
tlie custard. "• '•"' ^ ^'■'«' f'e Jeliy, floating H^ 

BLACK PTOniNO. 

*»■'""■ to taste oni cmff, "''^ """ "f f'-oan, of Sir 

'-^^ =' thi.k .x^"'L';tVthr,ro:i..:'''«^'^""'^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 



«ICE riDWKO WITHOUT EC«S. 



IT jp ' --"c / VUl,. 



.^22 



l^he Canadian Economist. 



and pick over the rice and soak in half a pint of milk for 
t>v^o hours, then add the rest of the milk, the sugar, salt, 
butter and spice. Bake two hours in a slow oven, to be 
eaten cold. 

TROY PUDDING. 

Miss Cantin, Montreal. 

One cupful each of raisins, molasses, suet and milk, 
three cupsful and a half of flour, one teaspoonful (jf sal- 
eratus, mix the whole together and boil either in a mould 
or pudding cloth for three hours. Serve with sweet sauce. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Miss Durie, Ottawa. 

Place alternately in a buttered mould, slices of buttered 
bread, and layers of sliced apples. For a quart mould, 
use a quarter-pound of sugar, put a slice of bread on the 
top, squeeze over it the juice of one lemon, and steam 
for three-quarters of an hour. This may be eaten either 
liot or cold, with sugar dusted over it, or any sauce that 
is liked. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

Mrs. Crannels, Ottawa. 

One cupful of molasses, two-thirds of a cupful of milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda, a few raisins. The above re(juires 
a sauce prepared by mixing thoioughly a little butter and 
Hour, pour over boiling water and let boil a few minutes, 
sweeten and season with nutmeg. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One pint of boiling milk, two eggs, a tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a cupful of ilour : 
enough Indian meal to make a good batter, stir in two 
teaspoon SI ul of soda. Bake in a quick oven, 



Lemon DitmpJhi(js. 



323 



KICE MERINGUE ITDDLNrj. 

Mrs. Cruchd, Muutrcdl. 

Boil one cup of rice in one quart of milk, and grate in 
the peel of one lemon, heat the yolks of six eggs into the 
rice, and set it into the oven for twev.ty or thirty minutes, 
then beat the whites to a frotli -with three-fouitlis of a 
pound of sugar, pour it on the rice and let it stand in the 
oven ten minutes, not too hot an oven for fear of scorching. 
Flavour with extract of lemon. 



HISS PUDDING. 

Mrs. Critchet, Montreal. 

Eight eggs, one quart of milk, eight tablespoonsful of 
■^iigai', two of flour, two of melted butter, one of lemon ; 
wlien the milk is lioiling, pour on the sour, use the yolks 
of eggs, flour, sugar, and Ijutter well beaten together, when 
it thickens a little take oti", and mix in lemon, and pour 
into the dish with whites of eggs l)eaten to a froth, stir 
altogether, put in a hot oven and brown the top. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING, 

Mrs. Crucliet, Montreal. 

One (piart of boiling milk, two tablespoonsful of corn- 
starch, two of grated chocolate, stir into boiling milk, 
three large tablespoonsful of sugar, a little salt, pour into 
a pudding dish and cool, very nice. 

LEMON DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs. {Col) Cameron, Kingston. 

Half a pound of grated bread-crumbs, quarter-pound of 
beef-Huit, and fine sugar to taste. Three eggs well beaten, 
the rind of a lemon grated and the jnice squeezed in. This 
makes five dumplings. Tie one in the centre of a large 



324 



TJte Canadian Economist. 



cloth and one in each corner. Boil two hours and serve 
with sauce. 

CASTLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. {Col) Cameron, Kingston. 

Six ounces of butter beaten to a cream, four eggs well 
beaten, six ounces of loaf sugar, six ounces of flour and 
one lemon. Mix all together and bake in jiatty-pans. 
Serve with sauce. 

CAROLINA RICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

One cupful of milk, three tablespoo.nsf ul of rice, two of 
sugar, salt, butter, and nutmeg. Bake an hour. {Serve 
warm. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

Pare, core, and slice enough apples to nearly fill your 
dish ; make a good light cake batter, and flour; cover tlio 
apples. Cup cake is a good receipt for the batter. Bake 
an hour. Eat warm with cream. 

SPONGE PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. James Canni^igham, Ottawa. 

A very nice plain pudding, should be baked in small 
buttered pots, three eggs, one cupful of milk, one of sugar, 
one spoonful of butter. Beat all together, and bake in a 
quick oven. Serve with sauce. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Mhs J. K. Carmichael, Bvyson. 

One small cupful of butter, one of molasses, one of milk. 
one of currants and raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, one 



.^..^^ 



Aunt Mdvijs Puddivf). 



325 



of cream of tartai', nutmeg or lemon. Steam three hours. 
Serve with .sauce. 

mCE PUDDING (WITH EUCJS.) 

Miss Durie, Otfaica. 

\V;ish a small cotfeecupful of rice, and put it into three 
pints of milk for several hours ; add a piece of butter the 
size of an Qgg, a small cupful of sugar, a pinch of salt, nut- 
meg and cinnam«»n. Bake very slowly two and a half 
liours. After it has become hot enough to melt the but- 
ter, stir it, without moving the dish, if you can from the 
bottom, adding one cup of raisins. 

RICE PUDDIXCJ. 

Mrs. Dickson, Portage Da Fort. 

Two (juarts of milk, half a cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of rice, one of raisins, two eggs, and cinnamon ; wash the 
rice and put it with the rest of the ingredients into the 
niilk ; bake for two hours. 



SURPRISE PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Dahjllesh. 

B(til a (juartcr of a pound of rice, and sweeten it, and 
put a layer in a neat round shape in tlie centre of a dish, 
on this spread a little strawberry oi' raspberry jam, then 
another layer of rice, and so on until all is used. Make a 
sauce, stir into it a few spoonsful of the same kind "of jam 
as used for the jtudding; pour it into the dish and serve 
warm. 

AUNT Mary's pudding. 

Mrs. James Dalglicsh. 

Bntter a tart-dish, sprinkle the bottom with finely 
iiuiiced candied peel, and a very little chopped suet, then 



320 



The Canadian Economist. 



a thin layer of lij^bt bread, aiul so on till the dish is full. 
For a pint dish, nitike a liquid custard of one egg, half a 
pint of milk, sweeten, pour over the pudding and bake as 
slowly as possible for two hours. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

M I's. J limes Ddhjlii'sh. 

Butter a pudding-dish, ])ut in a thin layer of light bica<l 
spread on a very little tinely-shred beef suet and grated 
lenion-peel ; repeat the pn»cess until the dish is lightly 
filled ; make a custard of two eggs and half a pint of milk, 
for a pint dish, and pour it over the bread by degrees; 
put a paper cap over the pudding and boil it gently for 
an hour. Serve with the following sauce: Mix a tablo- 
spoonful of Hour in cold water, stir it into half a pint of 
boiling water, let it boil a few minutes, sweeten, add tlio 
;e of a lemon ; half an ounce of buttei 



.1 



ay. It app 



be added ; a little lemon-peel boiled in the water of which 
the sauce is nui'le, or a few drops of lemon flavouring, is 
an improvement. 

FRKNCH TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. James iJahjlush. 

Take tw o ounces of tapioca and boil it in half a pint of 
water until it begins to melt, then add half a pint of milk 
by degi'ees, and boil until the ta})ioca becomes very thick, 
add a well-beaten egg, sugar and flavouring tc taste ; baki' 
gentl}; for three-<iuarters of an hour. This pre[)arati()n of 
tapioca is superior to any other, is nourishing and suitablf 
for delicate children. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Quarter-i)ound of suet, quarter- pound of currants, quarter 
pound of raisons, quarter-j)0und of flour, cjuarter-pound ct 



Steamed Bread Pudding. 



327 



brfad-cnimbs, two tablespoonsful of syrup, half a pint of 
milk. Mince the suet ; mix it with the fruit, Hour, bread- 
crumbs, and syrup ; moisten with the milk, beat tho- 
roughly and steam for three hours in a buttered mould. 

(JOLDING PUDDING. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Quarter-pound of bread-crumbs, quarter-pound of suet, 
([iiarter-pound of marmalade, (piarter-pound of sugar, four 
eggs. Mince the suet, mix it with the bread crumbs, the 
marmalade and the sugar. Stir these well together ; beat 
the eggs, moisten the pudding with them, and when well 
mixed, put it into a buttered mould, tie down with a 
tluured cloth, and boil it for two hours. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDINif, WITHOUT EGGS. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Halt" a pound of Hour, six ounces of raisins, six ounces of 
currants, (piarter-pound of suet, (luarter-pound of sugar, 
([luirter-pound of mashed carrots, quartor-pound of mashed 
potatoes, a tablespoonful of syrup, and two ounces of can- 
dit'd peel. Mince the suet, add the flour, carrots, raisins, 
and sugar ; stir in the carrots and [)otatoes, then the 
syrup and lemon-peel ; put no liquid in the mixture, or it 
will be spoilt Tie loosely in a cloth, as it should have 
room to swell, and boil for four hours. 

STKAMED BREAD PUDDING, DELICIOUS. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guelph. 

Butter a basin or powdered dish thickly with a piece 
of nice fresh butter. Into this put six ounces of bread- 
cruud)s, a pinch of salt, and one and a-half ounces of sugar ; 
pour over one quart of boiling sweet milk, and stand 
until cold, then beat up three eggs and mix all together; 
grate a little nutmeg on the top, turn a plate on it upside 



328 



TJie Canadian Economist. 



down, and steam one and a half hour?. Eat with jelly or 
sauce, also, good baked. 

GROUND RICE PUDDING, OR EASTER PIES. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guelph. 

Take one [)int of milk, leave out about a tejicupful. Put 
the rest on to boil with a few sticks of einnamou in it. 
Wet half a pound or more of ground rice, according to the 
quality, with a teacupful of milk. Take out the ciniuuiion 
and stir in the rice. Boil \mtil quite thick and soft. Pour 
into a crock, and let stand till nearly cold. Stir in a quar- 
ter-pound of butter, seven ounces of sugar, a little salt, and 
eight well-beaten eggs. This (juantity makes two good- 
sized pies. Line the dislies with a rice cru.st, pour in tlu' 
ingredients, sprinkle a few currants over the toj), and 
b"/Ke an hour. 

PAN DOWDY. 

Mrs. Elliott, GueljJi. 

Peel, core, and quarter some nice cooking ap})les, cover 
the bottom of a deep pie-dish, then add a little sugar and 
spice, next a layer of bread-crumbs, then some small bits 
of good butter, then a layer of ajiples, and so on alter- 
nately, until the dish is full, finishing oli" with the bread- 
crumbs at the top. Pour over all a cup of cold watei', and 
bake until the apples are quite soft. 

A SOUFFLE PUDDING. 

Miss Elliot*, Quel ph. 

Take eight rusks or plain buns. Lay them in a large 
deep dish, an<l },our on a pint of milk sufficient to soak 
them thoroughly. Cover the dish, and let them stand un- 
disturbed for about an hour and a- half before dinner. In 
the meantime, boil half a pint of milk in a small sauce- 
pan, with a handful of bitter almonds or peach kernels, 



Small and Cheap Plum Vuddiwj. 



329 



broken small, or a snmll bunch of fresh peach leaves, with 
two large sticks of cinnnmon, broken up. Boil this milk 
slowly (keeping it covered) and when it tastes strongly 
of the flavouring articles, strain it and set it away to cool. 
Wlicn cold, mix into another ])init of milk, and stir in a 
(|iiaitei'-])0und of powdered loaf sugar. Beat eight eggs 
very light, and add them gradually to the milk, so as to 
make a I'ich custard. Beat and stir the soaked rusk very 
liaitl, till it becomes a smooth mass, and then by degrees 
add to it the custard. Stir the wlude till thoroughly amal- 
(,'aiiiated. Set the dish into a brisk oven, and bake the 
pudding rather moi-e than ten minutes. The yeast in the 
rusk will cause it to putf up very light. Send it to table 
with white sugar sifted over it, or serve with sauce. 

CORNMEAL PUDDING. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guelph. 

One cupful of flour, one cupful of corinneal, one cupful of 
iiiilk.haif acupfulofsugar,halfacupful of raisins, one ounco 
(ifeandied|)eel,half acupful (>f molasses, half acupful of sour 
(muu, or l)utter milk, lialf a teaspoonful of soda. Steam 
tliree hours, and serve with sauce. 

CARROT PUDDIN(;. 

Mrs. George Elliott, Ottatra. 

One and a half cupsful of flcur, one cupful of sugar, one 
ciilifiil of suet, one cupful of raisins, one cupful of currants, 
one cupful of potatoes grated, one cupful of carrots grated, 
one teaspoonful of soda; steam or boil three hours. 

SMALL AND CHEAP PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. George Elliott, Ottawa. 

One cupful of suet, one cujjfiil of raisins, one cupful of 
currants, one cupful of molasses, one i^.<^^^, four cupsful of 
Hour, one cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 



330 



The Canadian Economist. 



spoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon; Itoil or 
steam three hour.s. 

AIM'LK SAGO PUI)DIN(}. 

Mrs, John M. Garland. 

One quart of boiling water, one cupful of sago, three sour 
apples, slice them, an<l the inside of one lemon, also, slia' 
thin. Bake slowly in a covererl pudding dish till it looks 
like a clear jelly, and eat with cream. 

(}()LDFN PUDDING. 

Mrs. (Hon.) Grant, Pidou, N.S. 

One quarter-pound of bread-crumbs, one (piarter-pound 
of beef suet, one quarter-pound of sugar, one (piarter- 
pound of marmalade, four eggs, a little salt, one gill of 
milk. Beat the eggs well and mince the suet tine, add all 
together and steam in a greased mould two hours. 

GELATINE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Horsey, Ottawa. 

Half a large box of gelatine, dissolved in a large hall 
pint of boiling water, when cold stir in the juice of thit'L' 
lemons, two teaspoonsful of white sugar, the whites of four 
eggs beaten separately to a stitt' froth, with the yolks of 
the four eggs and a ([uart of milk. Make a custard and 
flavour with vanilla or leinon. When cold serve with the 
jelly ; frost the pudding with icing. 

BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

Miss Hopldrh, Otfaiva. 

One pound of pulped apples, one quarter-pound of sugar. 
one quarter-pound of butter, one quarter-pound of bread- 
crumbs, four yolks and one white of egg, the juice and 
peel of one lemon. Bake three-quarters of an hour, and 
turn out on a dish. 



JiUe P:uldin(j. :}31 

IJIMON SUKT PUDDIMJ. 

M'iSH Hoplcirk, Ottawa. 

One <juartor-poun<l of snot, oiio (|uarter-poun(l of bread- 
cninil)s two eggs and tlie jnice and rind of one lemon. 

HALF-PAY PrDDING 

3Hks Hoplh'k, Ottawa. 

Four ounces of suet, four ounoes of Hour, currants, rai- 
sins and hreiul-eriiinbs, two tablespoonsful of treacle, half 
!i jtiiit of ujilk. Mix well and boil three hours; serve with 
sauce. 

OLD KN(JLIKH PLUM PUDDING. 

Miss llopk'irk, Ottawa. 

One pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one pound 
of suet, one (juarter-pouiHl of Hour or bread-crumbs, three 
(Hiiitcs of sugar, one half-ounce of grated lemon peel, a 
lilade of mace, half a nutmeg, a teaspoonful of ginger, six 
iws, work well, tie in a cloth with room to swell. Boil 
live liours. 

AMHKR PUDDIXCJ. 

Mhs Ilopkirlx, Ottawa. 

One (juarti^r-pound of suet, one quarter-pound of bread- 
ciiiiiibs, four eggs beaten up well, sugar to taste, candied 
kii;ou and orange. Shape buttered crumbed. 

RK'K PUDDIX(i (without FXJrjs). 

Mrs. Hardie. 

One cupful of rice well washed, a half cupful or more 
of sugar, three pints of milk or milk and water, a table- 
spouiiful of butter, a little salt, and extract of lemon. Put 
all in a pudding dish and bake an hour and a half ; eat 
either with cream or fruit. 



■>'?).. 



"% 






■^%. 







IMAGE EVALUATrON 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



^5^ 



IIM 12.5 



112 






1.4 



2.2 



2.0 



1.8 



1.6 



p^ 



% 






<>. 






d? 



^;^ 



r4 



/ 




v9% 

"-///. 





Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 







r\ 




¥ 








\\ 



<«)». "" 








cS^ 



% 



O 



>V^ 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(716) 8/2-4503 






& 



.<? 










cS^ 



332 



The Canadian Economist. 



A NICE RICE PUDDING. 

Mti<. Kennedy, Owen Sound. 

A crupful of rice boiled in water, add one pint of milk ami 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, one cupful of .sugar, 
yolks of four eggs and the rind of one lemon grated. Mix 
and bake half an hour or until done. Then beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth ; stir in half a pint of sugar 
and juice of one lemon, after the pudding cools a little, 
pour this over and brown in the oven ; very nice to eat cold. 
It will keep several days ; if necessary, add more milk 
when making the pudding. 

BARONESS PUDDING. 

Mrs. Leslie, Oftauu. 

Ingredients, three-quarters of a pound of suet, three- 
quarters of a pound of raisins, three-cjuarters of a pound 
of flour, half a pint of milk, tjuarter spoonful of salt. Pre- 
pare the suet very caiefully, freeing it from skin and chop 
it finely. Stone the raisins and cut in halves, mix hotli 
these ingredients with the salt and flour, moisten the 
"whole with the above proportion of milk, stir well and tie 
in a floured cloth previously wrung out of boiling water. 
Put into a saucepan of boiling water and boil without 
ceasing four and a half hours. Suflicient for seven or 
eight persons. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. F. Lessl'ie, Kliujsfon. 

Two ounces of sifted flour, two ounces of white granu- 
lated sugar, butter, the size of a walnut, four Qgg'!^, one 
pint of milk. Beat yolks and sugar in pudding. Reserve 
a little of the milk to blend the flour with, put the re- 
mainder on to boil. When it comes to the boil add flour 
and butter. Let the mixture boil a minute or two, then 
pour this into it with the yolks stirring briskly, yet gently 



Mountain-Dew Puddlnfj. 



333 



and thoroughly. Bake brown for a quarter of an hour, 
in ca quick oven, and serve at once. Do not remove from 
oven till moment of serving. 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING. 

Jlf/'.s. Lo/ii'd, Bristol. 

Three cupsfiil of Hour, one cupful of suet, one cupful 
of milk, one cupful of molasses, one of raisins, stoned and 
chopped, half a cupful of currants, one and a half tea- 
spoonsful of soda, a little salt and one tablespoonful of 
lemon essence. Boil three hours. 



* (IIPSY PUDDING. 

Miss Helen H. Lesslie, Kingston. 

Cut stale sponge cake into thin slices ; spread with jelly 
or preserve ; put together like sandwiches and lay in a 
dish. Pour hot custard. When cold, spread jelly or pre- 
serve over the top, and over that an ice formed of four 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with four tablcspoonsful of 
white sugar. Put into the oven and bake to a very light 
brown. 

SNOW-BALL PUDDING. 

Miss Sarah Lanahan. 

Boil a cofFeecupful of rice with sugar and salt to 
taste, until well-done. Pour into six teacups and put in 
a cool place. When quite cold turn out on a platter, put 
a teaspoonful of jelly on the top and serve with boiled 
custard poured around, not over them. 

MOUNTAIN-DEW PUDDING. 

Miss McKinnon, Gloucester Street, 

Three crackers rolled fine, a pint of milk, yolks of three 
Bake half an hour 



eggs 



Beat the whites of the eggs 



334 



The Canadian Econoh 'st. 



to a stiff froth, acid one cupful of sugai and a pinch of 
salt. Flavour with lemon, pour over the pudding. Set 
in the oven till delicately browned. 

STEAMED PUDDINO. 

Mrs. McTaggart, New Edinburgh. 

Half a cupful of suet (chopped fine), half a cupful of 
sugar, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, two og^i^, spice to taste, one cupful of fruit, nearly 
half a cupful of milk. Steam for three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve with sauce. 

STEAK PUDDING. ^ 

Mrs. McKemie, Almonte. 

Make a good crust for the flour and suet, shred fine, 
mix with cold water and a little salt. Make it pretty 
stiff. Take either beef or mutton steaks. Season them 
well with pepper and salt. Make it up as you would an 
apple pudding. Tie it in a cloth and po[) it into boiling 
water. Boil three hours ; five hours for a large one. 

TREACLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Three tablespoonsful of treacle, one tablespoon ful of 
flour and a little ground ginger ; mix all together, line a 
basin with paste, spread some of the mixture on with a 
spoon, then put a layer of paste with the mixture spread 
over, until the basin is full. Either baked or boiled is 
very good. 

noiLED CUED PUDDING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Rub the curd of two quarts of milk well drained through 
a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little cream, two spoons- 
ful of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg, flour and 



To Mal'c ratter for Friiil Pnchlh}(js. 



335 



crumbs of bread, each three spoonsful, currants and rai- 
sins half a pound each. Boil an hour in a thick well- 
Houred cloth. A very delicate species of curd can be 
made by mixing a pint of very sour buttermilk with two 
quarts of new milk. 

LOTUS PUDDING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Half a pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of best figs, 
six ounces of suet, six ounces of brown sugar ; mince the 
tiifs and suet very nicely, a little salt, two eggs well- 
beaten, nutmeg to your taste ; boil in a mould four hours. 

FRUIT IN BATTER. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Fruit sliced into batter makes an excellent econonjical 
j)udcling, and is considered much more digestible than 
when put into paste. A little of the batter should be 
jmt into the dish, and if apples are used they should be 
pared carefully. 

TO MAKE RATTER FOR FRUIT PUDDINOS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Put lialf pound of fiour, and a salt.spoonful of salt into 
a pan and stir in gently half a pint of milk ; if mixed 
carelessly they will remain in lumps; beat u[) the whites 
of four eggs, strain them to the batter and beat it well 
with a spoon. The whites should be beaten separately, 
to a solid froth, and not added till just before the batter 
is used. For fruit, the batter should be rather thicker 
than when plain, to prevent the fruit sinking to the bot- 
tom of the dish or basin. As it is equally good, baked or 
Itoiled, it must brought to a proper consistency by adding 
milk. 



330 



The Canadian Economist. 



UAKED GOOSEBERRY PUDDINd. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth or in a 
saucepan of water till they will pulp. Take a pint of the 
juice, pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with three 
yolks and whites of eggs, beaten and steamed with one 
and a half ounces of butter, sweeten it well and put a crust 
round the dish ; a few bread-crumbs should be mixed 
with the above to give a little consistency. Raspberries 
and currants maybe used instead of gooseberries, and are 
equally good. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Boil a large carrot till tender, bruise and mix it witli a 
spoonful of bread crumbs, four yolks and two whites of 
eggs, a pint of cream, a ratifia, a large spoonful of orange- 
fiower water, half a nutmeg, two ounces of loaf sugar; 
bake in a shallow dish lined with paste, an<l when it is 
turned out sti'ew sugar over it. 

BAKED SPON(}E PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. McElroy, Richmond. 

Three eggs, six ounces of white sugar, six ounces of 
butter, half a cupful of sweet milk, three-quarters of a 
pound of Hour, three tea-spoonsful of baking powder. 
Use cream, custard, or any other sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLING. 

Mrs. Ihomas McKay. 

The apple should be pared, the core scooped, and the 
centre filled up with spice and sugar according to the tart- 
ness of the apple. The paste should not be rolled out, 
but a lump taken of the right quantity, the apple placed 



Workman' 8 Pudding. 



337 



upon it, and the paste carefully pressed round it, bringing 
it to a shape which is easily closed, so as to keep in the 
juice and butter. They hi\ ve a pretty effect if boiled in 
nets instead of cloths. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. B. Me Arthur, Carleton Place. 

Eight ounces of bread-crumbs, six ounces of beef-suet, 
one teacup of warm milk, two eggs well beaten, four 
(/Uiioes of ligs, four ounces of sugar ; mix the figs very 
tine, put into the milk, let them stand on the front of the 
stove until the figs are soft, mix in the other ingi-edients, 
put in a buttered bowl and steam four hours. To be 
eaten with sweet sauce. 



CABINET PUDDING. 

Mrs. McNachtan, Cohourg. 

Twocupsful of prepared flour, three tables|)Oonsful of but- 
ter creamc'l with the sugar, five eggs, one cupful of sugar, 
half apound of raisins seeded andcut in pieces, half a cupful 
of milk, half a lemon, juice and grated peel ; add the beaten 
volks to the creamed sugrar, then the milk and Hour al- 
ternately, with the whites ; lastly, stir in the fruit dredged 
with flour, pour into a buttered mould and boil an hour 
and a half — or steam. Eat hot with liquid sauce. 

workman's PUDDING. 

Mrs. Maxvu'll. 

Half a pint of molasses, half a pint of boiling water, one 
teaspoonful of soda and a little salt ; add enough flour to 
make as stiff as sponge cake. If you wish to turn this 
into Foreman's or Boss's pudding, you can add a cupful of 
chopped raisins, and the same of minced suet; steam for 
two or three hours, and serve with cream or sugar. 

22 



338 



The Canadian Economwt. 



gUAKING PUDDIN(i. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

Boil a ([uart of cream and lot it stan<l till it i> almost 
cold, then beat four eggs a quarter of an hour, witli a 
spoonful and a half of Hour; then mix them with the 
cream and add sugar and nutmeg ; tie it up in a cloth well 
buttered. Let it boil an hour and turn out. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

This pudding is to go under baked meat. Beat four 
eggs with four large sp(K)nsful of fine Hour and a little 
salt, for a cpiarter of an hour, mix well with them throt 
pints of milk, then butter a drip-pan and set it under heef, 
mutton, or a loin of veal when it is roasting; and when it 
is brown cut it in square pieces and turn it over ; brown 
well on the under side. Send to table on a dish. 

CARHOT PUDDING. 

Mrs. (Rev.) J. McEwen, IiKjersoll, Out. 

One cupful of grated carrot, one of grated potato, 
one of beef- suet very finely shred, one of molasses, one of 
flour, one of bread-crumbs, orie of raisins, stoned, one of 
currants, two ounces of candied peel, sj)ice to taste, half 
a teacupful of sweet milk, in which dissolve one small tea- 
spoonful of soda. Steam two and a half houis and serve 
with sweet sauce. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Miss McTavish, Osgoode. 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of ejur milk, one 
teaspoon! ul of soda, a little salt, currants and raisins, one 
cupful of each, flour. Beat the eggs and stir in the sugar. 
Dissolve the soda in the milk, and mix also the fruit and 



Ohvlfftmns Plum Pudding. 



339 



the salt. Then thickon with Hour, rather thicker than for 
cake, tie in €a cloth, allowing room for swelling. Set in a 
steamer and .steam for an hour and a half. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mi88 McTavish, Osijaode. 

Half a pound of suet, one pound of Hour, half a pound of 
currants, half a pound of stoned raisins, two eggs, one nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, half of cloves, one of salt, 
one and a half cupsful of milk (citron optional) spread the 
suet and rub through the Hour, then mix in the fruit. 
Beat the eggs thoroughly, add the milk to the suet and 
Hour, then the eggs and fruit. Dip the pudding-bag into 
cold water, turn it wrong side out and Hour well. Turn 
the batter in and leave room for the pudding to swell. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Apples pared, cored and sliced, placed in alternate 
layers with stale bread-crumbs, very Hne ; add a lit- 
tle water, mix a few fine crumbs, with butter for the top. 
Hake. Eat it with a hard sauce. 

MAZY PUDDING. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Half a pound of bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter, 
three ounces of sugar ; pour over one pint of boiling milk. 
Cover till cold. Beat three eggs well, Havour, V)ake half 
an hour. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

Miss M., Kingston, 

One pound of suet cut not too fine, one pound of raisins, 
one pound of currants, half a pound of flour, half a pound 
of bread-crumbs, one pint of milk four eggs, half a nut- 



340 



T/te CanadicDi Ecotomlat. 



meg, one ounce of citron and lemon-peel, one teaspoonful 
ginger. Use as mu(;h of the milk as will mix it together, 
very thick. Boil five hours at least. 

A DKLICATE PUDDING. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

The yolks of five eggs beaten very well, lialf a pound 
of sugar, half a pint of milk, a slices of butter warmed in 
the milk, a tablespoonful of flour. Bake in large cups. 
Turn out and pour over them a sauce made of one 
glassful of cider or molasses, a little loaf sugar and melted 
butter. 

STEAMED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Mrs. (Rev.) J. McAIlsfcr, Ashton 

One pound of suet, one pound of Hour, a heaping tea- 
spoonful of salt. ( yhop the suet in a little of the Hour to 
pi-event its caking. Chop very fine, as fine as meat ; tlion 
add cold water enough to make a paste. Roll as thin a.s 
pie-crust ; peel a dozen of large apples ; quarter and core 
them, keeping each apple by itself. Place the (piarters 
together again and cover each of them with a s(|uare of 
the paste ; place in a buttered plate and cook in a steamer 
for an hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

BOILED INDIAN CORN. 

^frf<. rhiUip Munson, Ottawa. 

Two eggs, one (juart of sweet milk, quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of soda ; stir in meal to make a thick I atter. 
Put in a linen bai; and boil six hours. Serve with sauce. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Mrx. Parr, Ottawa. 

One and a half cupsful of white sugar, two cupsful of fine 
dry bread-crumbs, five eggs, one tablespoonful of butter va- 



French Paddhirf. 



341 



oonful 
rother, 



•mcd hi 

re cups. 

of one 

i melted 



ping tea- 
3 Hour to 
lat; then 
s tlnn as 
;ni(\ core 
(piarters 
(luare of 
steamer 



Uf a tea- 
Ik latter, 
ith sauce. 



liuloffine 
)utter va- 



nilla, rrse- water, or lemon Havonrin<jf; one (|uart of fresh 
rich milk and half a cupful of jam. Ruh the butter into 
a cupful of sugar ; beat the yolks very li«(ht and stir 
these together to a cream. The bread-crumbs soaked in 
milk come next. 

POOR man's pudding. 

jl/r.>'. J. M. MacdhHter, Ashfnii. 

Three teacupsful of Hour, one of milk, one of choj)ped 
raisins, one of suet, one of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
salcratus, nutmey^. Put in a ba<r and boil an hour and a 
half. Serve with sauce. 

KEATHKR PUDDTNU. 

Mrfi. Pcvlcjj, Oftinra. 

One quart of mifk, three tablespoonsful of corn-starch. 
Mix the batter in a little cold milk and add to the other 
when boilinfj. When it has thickened add the whites of 
four e<2^gs well beaten, a pinch of salt and ])ut in a mould, 
make a boiled cu.stard with the yolks of the e<j:«jfs and one 
pint of milk. Sweeten and pour over th;; other, when 
taken from the mould. 

FRKNCH PUDDING. 

Mvf^. Rosf^, O.L.C., Ottawa. 

One quart of milk, three teaspoonsful of corn-starch, 
wet with cold milk, one cupful of powdered sugar, one 
ciii»ful of strawberry-jam, six eggs, beaten very lightly. 
Mode: Boil the milk and stir in the corn-starch ; stir one 
inituite. Pour into a bowl containing the beaten yolks, 
the whites of two eggs, and half the sugar, whip for 
two or three minutes and put into a buttered baking- 
dish, set in a pan of boiling water, an<l bake half an hour, 
or until firm. Just before withdrawing it from the oven, 
cover with jelly or jam, and this with a meringue made of 



342 



The Canctdum Econnmiftt. 



the reserved whites an«l sugar. 'Set in the oven till the 
meringue is sliglitly coloure<l. Eat cold with cream. 

PUDDINO. 

MinM H()h(>rf><ov, TJiovoUh 

Haifa pound of hivad-oruinhs, half a pound of beef- 
suet, half a pound of hrown sugar, three lenums, grated, 
three ^)iil'!>. Boil two liours. Serve hot with sauee. 

BROWN PUDDlNfl. 

M'ifii Roherfiion, Thorold. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of water, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one of chives, one of allspice, one of 
soda; lastly, thicken these ingredients to a good stiff 
batter, and boil for three hours. 

MINCK MEAT. 

^ MiHf< Bohrrlsoi), Thorold. 

One beef's tongue boiled tender, three pounds of suet 
chopped fine, six pounds of raisins, six pounds of curiaiits, 
lialf a pound of lemon, and half a pound of orange-peel, 
half an ounce of cinnamon, half an ouiice of cloves, one 
and a half teaspoonful of mace, two nutmegs, a quantity 
of apples. Sweet cider or molasses will preserve it. 

biud's-nest pudding. 
Miss Rohertfi07i, Thorold. 

Peel and core as many apples as will stand in a dish, 
and fill the holes with sucrar. Make a custard with two 
or three eggs, and mix with sugar; pour it over the 
apples, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake an 
hour. 



A tint NcllicH Puddlnrj. ^i^ 

CAN A hi AN PUDDING. 

iV/.s'.s liolwrfno)), Thovold. 

Four ounces cacli of Hour, suot, currants, raisins, and 
lirnul-crunihs, two tablespoonsful of treacle, and linlfa 
pint of milk. Mix all well tojj^ether and lioil in a mould 
three houis. Serve with sauce accord in «jf to taste. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreaf. 

One pint of flour, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
milk, one-quarter cupful of hutter, and two eggs. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. 

COUNTRY PUDDING. 

Mt'H. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Three taV)Iesp()onsful of tlour, three eggs, milk to make 
lithe consistency of cream. Before serving it, cut tlie 
toj) (juickly in cross-bars and pour preserves over it. 

DKMCIOUS PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Six ounces of sugar, butter, flour, currants and raisins, 
four eggs. Steam two hours. 

AUNT Nellie's pudding. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of suet, half a pound 
of treacle, the rind and juice of one lemon, a few strips 
of candied lemon-peel, three tablespoonsful of cream, two 
eggs. Chop the suet fine, mix with it the flour, treacle, 
lemon-rind minced, and candied peel, add the cream, lemon- 
juice and two well-beaten eggs ; beat the pudding well, 



S44 



The Canadian Economist. 



put it into a floured cloth, and boil three and a-half to 
four hours. 

ROLL PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Ilod(jer, Montreal. 

Make a paste of one pound of flour, a quarter pound of 
suet, a little salt, water to wet, spread pi'eserves over it. 
and roll up. Put in a cloth or bowl, and steam one and 
a half hour. 

MAIZE PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa, 

Two cupsfnl of cold boiled hominy, add three cupsful 
of chopped ap|)le, juice of two small lemons, one-third 
cupful of sugar, two-thirds cupful of Zante currants. Mix 
thoroughly. Bake one hour or more in an ordinary oven 
till of a light-brown colour, and serve cold. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING (gOOD). 

Mrs. A. Scott, Oitaiua. 

Make a batter of five 'eggs and c* pint of milk ; add a 
little salt before the eggs are put in. Have several slices 
of bread about as thick as for toasting, and spread butter 
thickly on them. BuLer a pudding-disli, put in a layer 
of bread and butter, then raisins and currants, and an- 
other layer of bread and butter, until the dish is three- 
quarters full. Flavour with nutmeg. Pour over and bake. 

POOR man's plum pudding, 
3frs. Storij, Ottaiva. 

One cupful of currants, one cupful of raisins chopped tine.- 
one cupful of suet, two cupsful of flour, three tablespo(>usfui 
of molasses, a small teaspoonfui of soda, one teaspoonfid of 
salt, half a teaspoonfui of ginger, and spices to taste, wet 



Plain Plum PiuhUnq. 



345 



with enoiififh water or milk to make a stiff batter. Put in 
a mould and steam for two or two and a half hours. 



HONEYCOMB PUDDING. 

Mr>^. Smith. 

Tliree cupsful of flour, one cupful of suet chopped finely, 
one cupful of milk, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of 
i-aisins, half a fupful of currants, one and a half spoonsful 
of soda, three of cream of tartar, a little salt. Boil three 
hours. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Afiss Annie Shaw, Ottaiva. 

Four eggs, the same weight each of ilour, brown sugar 
and butter, a few raisins, stoned and dredged with flour, 
one teaspoonful^of baking powder, grated peel of a lemon ; 
whip the sugar and butter to a cream, add the eggs 
fthoroughly beaten), then the lemon-peel and th<^ flour, 
with the baking pow<ler well mixed through it, and la.stly 
the raisins ; beat the whole well and (quickly together and 
pour it into a buttered bowl and put in the steamer im- 
mediately. Steam for two houi-s and be sure to keep it 
covered tightly and the water constantly boiling. Sweet 
siuice. 

This pudding is very nice with Indian-meal instead of 
rtour and steamed a little longer. 

PLAIN PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs, Stewart, New Yorh. 

One bowl of bread soaked in water, <lrain the water 
off and squeeze until dry, then add the following : one cup 
of molasses, one teaspoonful of soda mixed in the molasses, 
one snudl pinch of salt, one scant cup of milk, four eggs 
well beaten, one tal)les|)oonful of ginger.one apple chopped, 
qiiart<'rteaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon. 



34() 



Tlie Canadian Economist. 



one teaspoonful of ginger, half a nutmeg, one bowl of 
chopped suefc, one bowl of currants, one of raisins, lemon- 
peel at your pleasure. Steam or boil for four or fivt- 
hours. 

CUP PUDDING. 

Miss Thomson, Renfrew. 

Three eggs, three-quarters of a cupful of sugar, tlnec- 
Cjuarters of a cupful of milk, three-quarters of a cupful of 
llour, half a cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda; 
butter the cups, pour in a little preserves, then half fill 
with batter, steam twenty minutes. Serve with hot sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Miss Thomson, Renfrevj. 

One pint of stale bread, one quart of milk, the yolks of 
four eggs beaten, a small cupful of white sugar, the grated, 
rind of a lemon, and a piece of butter the size of an egg: 
mix all well together, bake when cool ; spread it well 
with jelly ; beat the whites of the eggs very stiff with 
five spoonsful of white sugar, with the juice of a lemon, 
pour over the to]) of the pudding, })ut in the oven to 
stiffen. 

HARD TIMKS PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Half a pint of syrup, half a pint of water, tw^) tea- 
spoonsful of baking [)owder, one teaspoonful of salt, raisins 
to suit taste, thicken with flour as for pound cake, fill the 
pudding mould half full to allow for swelling and boil 
for three hours. 

APPLE DUMPLING. 

Miss Thomson, Renfrew. 

One pound of suet, one pound of flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt, chop the suet fine, mince and add cold water to maKe 



Queen of Puddings. 



347 



I of 
lon- 



luce- 
■iil of 
soda ; 
If till 



oiks of 
m-ated, 

c5 



ivo tea- 
niisiiis 
fill the 
111,1 boil 



Ipoonful 
Lo maKe 



a paste, roll thicker than for pie crust, peel a few large 
apples, quarter and sUce tlieiu, divide the paste in two, 
enclose the apples in each piece, season with nutmeg or 
cloves, then roll uj) in a iioured or wet cloth, tie with cord, 
boil for two hours ; serve with melted hutter, a little water 
and sugar mixed and boiled, and fla.oured with nutmeg. 

SNOW PUDDINCJ. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Half a box of gelatine, one pint of boiling water, two 
cupsfnl of sugar, juice of a lemon, melt it, whites of three 
e^gs beaten to a froth and njixed, pour intt) a mould ; the 
yolks and a teaspoonful of corn-starch and milk to make a 
t'listiud, to be served up with the i)udding. 

HIKP'S-NEST PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

Make a batter with one cupful of milk, one cupful of 
sugar, (quarter of a cupful of butter, one ag^, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartai, half a one of soda, two cupsful of 
tiour; put some apples, cut for pie, into a buttered dish, 
pour the batter over and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

Slice the bread and spread with butter, line a well but- 
Itered dish with them, fill in with apj)les and cover with 
the broad buttered on both sides, bake until brown. Serve 
Iwith crear.i and sugar. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. {Rev) D. Ward rope, Teeswater. 

I Six ounces of any kind of cake broken small, fruit cake 
lis the nicest, four eggs, keep out the white of one, four 



348 



The Canadian Economist. 



ounces of sugar, a (juart of milk, one ounce of huttcM*, and 
the gi'^ted rind of a lemon. Mix all together and bake. 
When done beat the white of the egg kept out witli two 
ounces of .sugar. Spread this ov^cr the top of the puddintf 
for a few minutes to brown sliglitly. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Three cupsful of Hour, two teaspoonsf ul of baking pow- 
der, half a teaspoonful of salt, add one cupful of suet clioji- 
ped fine, one cupful of fruit, fresh or presei'ved, two-thirds 
of a cupful of sugar, milk to make a stiff batter. Steam 
one hour and a half To be eaten with rich sauce. 

applp: and rice pudding, 

Afrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One teacupful of rice boiled very soft, a little salt ainl 
butter, five apples cut fine in the bottom of a puddioi,' 
dish. Put rice over the top, and boil three-cjuarters of an 
hour. Half a cupful of cream on the rice improves it. 
Serve with sauce. 

BERRY OR FRUIT PUDDING. 

3Irs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One quart of flour, half a teaspoonfid of soda, two of 
baking powder, mix, and rub in two large tablespoonsfiil 
of shortening, form soft dough, witli milk or water. Rdl 
out thin, and spread with any kin<l of berries or fruit, i 
Roll it up in a cloth, and place in a steamer. To be eaten j 
with lemon sauce. 

PARADISE PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Young, G(dt. 

Ingredients — six eggf, six apples, six ounces of brcad-B The bowl 
crumbs, six ounces of sugar, one glassful of sweet cider orBsuet, and on 



Eves Puddlinj. 



341) 



', and 
hako. 
li two 
(Iding 



b cho]t- 

f-thivtls 

Stcaiu 



salt antl 

\i(l<liiii; 

IS (if an 

ovfs it. 



two of 

hoonsful 

M-. Roll 

hr fruit. 

\M'oatt'ii| 



molasses, peel of half a lemon cut thin, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, one gi-ating of nutmeg. Mode — Peel and mince 
the apples, and mix with the sugar and bread-crumbs, 
lemon peel, salt, and nutmegs, beat the eggs and add them. 
Stir in the cider or molasses. Boil in a well-buttered 
mould for three hours, and serve with sauce. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

il/v'.s. James Young, Gait 

One cupful of grated carrots, one of grated potatoes, one 
of broad-crumi»s, one of currants, (me of suet, half of sugar, 
half of Hour, a little salt, and a little milk. Boil the same 
as plum pudding, which it greatly resembles. 

FRUIT SUET I'UDDINCi. 



Mrs. R(nj, Ottawa. 

One cupful of sweet milk, half a cupful of molasses, half 
of butter or suet, two-thirds of raisins, two-thirds of cur- 
rants, one teaspoonful of soda, one of cloves. Flour 
enough to make a stitf batter. Steam two and a-half 
hours. 

CHEESE PUDDIN(}. 

Mrs. {Hon.) McFarlane, Picton. 

Two ounces of bread-crumbs, boiled in half a pint of 
lilk, when cold add a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, 

I two ounces of l)utter, yolks and whites of two eggs, beaten 
separately. Season with mustanl, pepper, and salt. Bake 

]three-<iuarters of an hour. 

eve's puddng. 

Miss Young. 

If Inead-H Tlic bowl to l)e first rubbed with butter, then a layer of 
cider orS^'^t, and one of bread-ci'umbs, and one of apples ; then 



350 



The Canadian Kconomiat. 



suet again, and so on, as before, till the l)o\vl is full . Orate 
the rind of a lemon and mix with the bread-crumbs. Beat 
up two eggs with a little milk, the juice of a lemon, and 
sugar. Pour over the whole. Eitlier to be baked or 
steamed. 

FIG PUDDIN({. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Chop half a pound of figs very finely, mix them with 
a quarter of a ])ound of coarse sugar, a tablespoonful of 
treacle, four tablespoonsful of milk, half a pound of flour, 
a quarter of a pound of suet, an egg, and a pinch of grat- 
ed nutmeg. Put the pudding into a buttered mould, ami 
boil for four or five hours. 



OATMEAL PUDDING. 

Coohery for Invalids. 

Mix two ounces of fine Scotch oatmeal in a (quarter of 
a pint of milk ; add to it a pint of boiling milk, sweeten 
to taste, and stir over the fire for ten minutes, then put in 
two ounces of sifted bread-crumVjs, stir until the mixture I 
is stiflT, then add one ounce of shred suet, and one or two] 
well-beaten eggs ; add a little fiavouring or grated nut- 
meg. Put the pudding into a buttered dish, and bakej 
for one hour. 

LAYER PUDDING. 

Cookery for Invalid s. 

Make a crust as for fruit pudding. Roll it out and linej 
a buttered basin with it. Lay at the bottom a layer of 
jam or treacle, and so on until the basin is full. Boilaiij 
hour and a half. 




CHAPTER XXI. 



FRIKD CREAM BATTPp urrr, 

i Vge .spoonsful of iar f *''^''' '*" *« taste, two 
«p«onsf„I of crea,„ f tlit '"''•''^"' "^ ""'k two 

,„;j ''- Hour, flavou.. with\u^!,v'r„,rf:;;vtH''^tt- 

HATTKR PUJJDINO. 
One int '^"' ^''"'^ ^'•""■''/'' ««<"'•«• 

'fe ■''"■^■'- ""^"""s "C.'^e r^n"- '•'"•P'- •■""' '-% 

* "'^''"-/•"^■•ters o1- an ho," "'.Se^::':",^ ^<'^>-»ourId 

»:»eive With sauce. 

LEMON PUFFS 

He»™XLfe^^ the ,raw ri„, of 

K' P^P- Bake in th:^'^7a5,\':::P- o"n' 



352 



The Canadian Economist. 



FRITTERS. 

MvH. A. Baldiuhi, Ottawa. 

One pint of sour milk, three tablospoonsfiil of shorten- 
ing, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt and 
flour enough to make a stiff batter. Fry in lard same as 
dough-nuts. Dip the spoon in the lard and the douirh 
will not stick. This makes a nice dish for 'tea, eaten with 
maple syrup or with melted sugar. 

STEAMED JJATIEU PUDDING. 

MrK Breckoii, Oftavja. 

One cupful of sour milk, three eggs, half a ( u})fui of 
butter, two teaspoonsf ul of baking powder. Flour enough 
to make a thick batter. Steam for an hour or moic, 
serve with sugar sauce. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Mrs. CranneU, Ottaiua. 

Two cupsful of cold mashed potatoes, with two table- 
spoonsful of melted butter which has been l:)eaten to a 
cream. Add two well-beaten eggs and one cuj ful of 
cream or milk. Pour into a deep dish aad bake in a quick 
oven. 

CRULLERS. 

Miss Do uglas, K i ngsto n. 

One cupful of sugar, one of buttermilk, three table- 
spoonsful of melted butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda. Mix as soft as possible. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Beat very stiff the whites of three eggs, and then beat 
in gradually half a pound of powdered loaf sugar. Scrape 



Fritters of Cah' <imt Puddimj. 



353 



down very fine three ounces of the best chocolate, pre- 
pared cocoa is better still, and dredge it with flour to 
prt'vont its oiling. Mixing the flour well among it. 
Tlu'U add it gradually to the mixture of white of egg and 
su<far and stir the whole very hard. Cover the bottom 
of a s(|uare tin pan with a shert i>f fine white paper, cut 
to fit exactly. Place upon it thin spots of powdered loaf 
sii<,far about the size of half a dollar. Pile a portion of 
the mixture, on each spot, smoothing it with the back of 
a s[»()on, or a bnmd knife dipped in cold water: Sift 
white sugar ov(^r tlu; top of each. 

COCOA-NUT PUFFS. 

Miss Elliott, Gael oh. 

Break up a large ripe cocoa-nut. Pare the pieces and 
lay them awhile in cold water. Then wipe them dry and 
grate them as finely as possible. Lay the grated cocoa-nut 
ill well formed heaps on a large handsome dish. It will 
require no cooking. The heaps should be about the cir- 
cumference of a half crown, and nuist not touch each 
nthei. Flatten them down in the mi'Mle as to mako a 
liollow in the centre of each heap, and upon this pile some 
very nice sweetmeat. Make an excellent whipped cream 
well seasoned and flavoured with lemon and beat it to a 
stiff froth. Pile some of this cream high upon each cake 
ovei- the sweetmeats, if on a supper table you may arrange 
them in circles round a <!:lass stand. 

FIUTTF.RS OF CAKE AND PUDDING. 

.1/;n.s Eli'iott, Giu'lpk 

Cut plain pound or rich cake into small square slices 
half an inch thick, trim away the crust, fry them slowly 
a light brown in a small quantity of fresh butter, and 
spread over them ; when done, a layer of apricot jam, or 
of any other preserve, and serve them immediately. These 

23 



nr,4 



The Canadian Eeonomwt 



fritters are improved })y being inoistened with a Ijtt It- 
good cream before they are tried, they must tlien be 
slightly floured. Cold plum-pudding sliced down aw 
thick as the cake, and divided into ])ortion.s of ecpial size 
and good form, then dipped into batter, and gently fried, 
will also make an agreeable variety of Irittei*. 

MINCE MEAT FRITTERS. 

Mlm Elliott, Gudph. 

With half a ])ound of mince meat mix two ounces of 
fine bread-cruml)S (or a tablespoonful of flour), two eggs 
well beaten and the strained juice of half a small lemon; 
mix these well and drop tlie fritters with a dessertspoon 
into plenty of very pure lard, fiy them from seven to 
eight minutes, drain them on a napkin, and send tlioni 
very hot to table. They should be (piite small. 

TO MAKE CRULLERS. 

Mvf^. J. H. I\ Gihson. 

One pint of milk, half a pound of sugar, three eggs, two 
tablespoonsful of melted butter, lialf a nutmeg grated into 
the milk and eggs, two teaspoonsful of National Baking 
Powder to each pound of Hour, and mixed with the Hour. 
Mode; Stir milk, sugar and eggs together, with some 
flour; add the melted butter, after which stir in the rest 
of the Hour, making a soft dough ; cut the dough-nuts into 
small pieces, roll into strij)s and twist together; place 
them into a dish of boiling lard, an^' turn until browned 
nicely. These, when placed before an epicure, will cause 
him to smack his lips with delight. 

PUFFS. 

' Mrs. Hunt, Boston. 

Two cupsful of Hour, one cupful of milk, not quite one 
cupful of water. The irons you bake in must be very hot 
before you put in the batter. Butter the irons well. 



To Midi' Apple Friffei's. 355 

FllKXCH TOAST. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston. 

Cut in slices a l)iick loaf, three e<r^s, a pint of milk, 
sweetened and seasoned with nutmeg ; lay the bread in 
the mixture for three miniites ; fry on a buttered griddle ; 
eaten with Imtter. 

CRULLKRS. 

Mrs. (Rcr.) K. MarLennan, P. E. I, 

Four eggs, two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of milk, a 
pieci; of butter the size (jf an egg, one teaspoonful of cream, 
and two of cream of tartar, four and a half o!" five cups- 
ful of flour ; mix eream of tartar in the flour, and dissolve 
the soda in the milk. 

(JOOD PLAIN DOU(.H-NUTS. 

Mra. (Rcr.) K. MacLcnnan, P. E. I. 

Five cupsful of flour, one cupful of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of lard, one i'^^^^, a pineh of salt, flavour to taste ; 
mix in the flour, flrst, a teaspoonful of soda, and two of 
crwun of tartar, then add the other ingredients ■ use cold 
water or sweet milk for mixing ; fry in lartl. 

TO MAKE APPLE FRITTKHS. 

Mrs. Tho^. McKay. 

Take one pint of milk, three eggs, salt to taste, and as 
much flour as will make a batter; beat the yolks and 
whites separately, add the yolks to the milk, stir in the 
whites with as much flour as will make a batter; have 
ready some tender applets, peel them, cut them in slices 
round the apple ; take the core carefully out of the centre 
of each slice, and to every spoonful of batter lay in a slice 
of the apple, which must be cut very thin ; fry them in 
hot lard to a lisfht brown on both sides. 



:}.•)(; 



Till' Carnidiitn fJcovinnisf. 



H{1KI> KINUEHS. 

MisK Helen II. Li'sJie, KivffHloth. 

Cut stale hn-ad in slices rather thick, cut these iu fin- 
jLfers, prepare a custard, that is, heat an e^% add milk, 
sutjar and Havouring; in this soak the hread for an hour 
or more, fry these in hutter and juTanj^e on a dish in tin- 
form of a ])yniniid, sprinkh; with sut^mr and ])ut jelly 
aronnd. 

BATTER l'rhl)IN(J. 

Mrff. McKarlilan, CoIhuwij. 

One pint of milk, four cj^ojs, two even cupsful of floui 
prepared, ono tahlespoonful of salt; heat the yolks, afjd 
the milk and salt, then the Hour, lastly the whites of tlic 
eggs; bake at one <> in a huttertMl dish forty-five mimitos; 
eat with trood sauce. 

CRILLERS. 

J//'.s'. H. McE/roi/, Richmond, Out. 

Take six teaspoonsful of baking powder, half a cupful 
of ])utter, three eggs, two cupsful of sugar, two cupsful of 
cold water, two pounds of Hour ; mix baking powder and 
flour togethei-, add the butter, then mix the eggs, su<,'ar 
and water toirether, and add to the flour and batter and 
fry in hot lard. 

T.AKKI) RATTKK FTDDINT!. 

Mi's. ThomHoii. 

Allow a pint of cold milk, four tablespoonsful of tloiii 
two eggs, and a little salt. Stir the flour smooth in a part 
of the milk ; then put in the eggs without first beatinir, 
and beat them well with the mixed flour, then add the 
remainder of the milk and the salt, and when well stirred 
together, pour it into a buttered dish, and bake it half an 
hour. When it is done, the whole top will have risen up. 



lid tier P Lidding. 



3o/ 



So lon^' u.s tlicio in a little sunken spot in the centre, it is 
not l>aked enouofb. Make a cold or hat sauce as you pre- 
fer. This makes an ample pudding for a family of four. 
A batter j)ud(lin<jf will not be li«;bt unle.ss it is put in the 
(ivon immediately «»n being made. 

CRUI.LKHS. 

Misa Ri the it situ. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, eijjjht eggs, one 
iiutnu'g,on«M|uart ofbutternnlkjoneteaspoonfui of soda, one 
tcjisj«)()nful of smR, iUid as nuich Hour as will make a soft 
(loULili. Frv in hot lard, 

DorUH-NUTS. 

Mif*K Stri'urf. 

One egg, one jdntofmilk, one eupful of sugar, thi'ee table- 
s|to()nsful of butter, half a nutmeg, thiee spoonsful of 
liaking powder ; mix with flour, enough to i'<>ll out. 

CRULLKHS. 

MUs KrnmeHuc Thtnason, Olhnrn. 

One teaeupful of cream, one and a (juartei* of sugar, a 
siiltspoonful of salt, three eggs, a level teaspoonful of vSoda. 
Flavour with nutmeg, or cinnamon ; mix soft and fry 
i[iii(l<ly in hot lard, and roll in white sugar while hot. 

BATTER PIDDINC. 

Mrs. M'"dliam><, G handle re. 

Three eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, three 
tablespoonsful of flour, one teaspoonful of butter, half a 
pint of milk, salt, add the whites last, the flour must be 
I'eaten in the yolks of the eggs, and the milk by degrees, 



358 



The Canadian Economist 



HATTER PUDDINl}. 

' Home MesseiKjei'. 

Six eggs beaten light, six tablespoonsful ot'tlour sifted, 
one quart of sweet milk. Bake an hour. 

KlUEI) CKEAM, CKEME i'JUTE. 

Home Mcsse v gcr. 

Every one 'hould try tliis reci[)e. It will surprise many 
to know how soft cream .should be enveloped in the crust; 
it is an exceedingly goo«l dish for a dinner cour.se, or for 
lunch or tea. When the pudding is hard, it can be rolled 
in the eij^g and bread crund)S. The moment the i}^^g touches 
the hot lard, it hardens and secure;; the pudding, whicli 
softens to a creamy substance verv delicious. In«i:redient.s : 
One pint of milk, five ounces of sugar (little more than a 
half-cupful), butter the size of a hickory nut, yolks of three 
eggs, two tablespoonsful of corn-starch, and one tablespoon- 
ful of flour (a generous) half-cupful altogether, stick of 
cinnamon, inch long, half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Put 
the cinnamon into the milk, and when it is just about to 
boil, stir in the sugar, the corn-starch, and flour, the two 
latter rubbed smooth with two or three tal)lespooiisful of 
extra cold milk. Stir it over the fire for fully two minutes 
to cook well the starch and flour; take it fiom the fire, stir 
into it the beaten y<dks of the eggs, and return it for a 
few moments to set them ; now again taking it from the 
fire, remove the cinnamon, stir in tlie buttei- and vanilla, 
an<l })our it on a buttered platter until one-third of an ineli 
high. When cold and stiff* cut the pudding into ])arallelo- 
grams about three inches long and two wide ; roll these 
carefully, first, in sifted cracker-crumbs, then in eggs, 
(slightly beaten and sweetened), then again in the cracker- 
crumbs. Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire basket 
sliould be used if convenient), and when of fine colour, 
take them out and place them in the oven for four or five 



Stale Bread Fritters. 



359 



minutes to better soften the pudding. Sprinkle over pul- 
verized sugar, and serve immediately. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. McQnan'ie 

Two cupsful of good sugar, three eggs, one cupful of 
sweet cream, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one tea- 
s|)0()nful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, and one nutmeg ; 
mix the sugar with the flour, and the cream with the 
(■i:gs ; there should be four cupsful of flour ; roll out haul 
iiiul fry. 

FRITTERS. 

Couiinon Sense in the Household- 

One ))int of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
pint of boiling water ; stir the flour into the water by de- 
i^'rees, and stir until it has boiled three minutes ; let it get 
ahnost cold, when beat in the yolks, then the whites of 
tlie eggs, which must be previously whipped stifl'. 

PANCAKES. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

One pint of floui-, six eggs, one saltspoonfid of salt and 
same of soda dissolved in vinegar; milk to make a thin 
batter. Begin with two cups and a<ld until the batter is 
of the right consistency ; beat the yolks light, add the 
salt, soda and two cupsful of milk, then the flour and 
beaten whites of eggs alternately, and thin with more 
milk. 

STALE BREAD FJUTTERS. 

Miss Beccher. 

i\\i stale bread in thick slices, and put it to soak for 
several hours in cold milk, then fry it in sweet lard, and 
eat it with sugar, or molasses, or a sweet sauce : to make 
it more delicate, take oft* the crusts. 



300 



2'he Canadian Econonfiwt. 



MUSH OR HASTY PUDDING. 

M'hs Beech cv. 

Wet up the Indian meal in cold water till there are no 
lumps, stir it gradually into boiling water which has })een 
salted, till so thick that the stick will stand in it, boil 
slowly, and, so as not to burn, stirring often; two or three 
hours' boiling is needed. Pour it into a broad deep disl), 
let it grow cold, cut it into slices half an inch thick, Hour 
them and fry them on a griddle with a little lard,oi' bake 
them in a stove oven. 

iJArrEii PUi)DiN(J. 

MifiB Beeeher. 

One quart of milk, twelve tal)lespoonsful of tloui', nine 
eggs, a teaspoonful of salt; beat the 3^olks thorouglily, 
stir in the flour and add the milk slowly; beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth, and add the last things; tic in a 
floured bag and boil two houi-s. 




■<^4ii'''-- 



CHAPTER XXIL 
PUDDING SAUCES. 



ALMOND SAUCK. 

Warnet* Every-ddy Cookery. 

AN ounce and a half of sweet almonds, seven bitter 
almonds, two teaspoonsful of o]an<^e-f1ower water, 
yolks of two or three eggs, three tablespoonsful of cream, 
five hnnps of sngnr, or to your taste. Blancli <ind pour the 
liittcr and sweet almonds in a mortar with the orauije- 
tlower water until they are a piilp, then put them into a 
delicately clean saucepan with the cream, the yolks of the 
I'ggs, well beaten, and sugar to your taste ; whisk it over 
a moderate fire until it is smooth and frothy, and serve it 
up with pudding. 

SAUCE FOR SPONGE PUDDlXfl. 

IIoiYic Mrss-eiKjcr. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one of Vtutter, yolks of two aggs, 
lieaten to a cream ; heat over the kettle top, add the beaten 
whites ; flavour to your tiiste. 

PUDDFNO SAUCK. 

Hon I e Messe nye i : 

Three tablespoonsful of white sugar, one even table- 
spoonful of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
stirred to a cream ; stir in gradually two tablespoonsful 



362 



The Canadian Economist. 



of mace compound, add a teacupful of boiling water ; then 
set into a kettle of boiling water, stirring it constantly 
until the flour is cooked. 

FAIRY oil nun's BUTTKR. 

Home Mmsewjfv. 

One tablespoonful of butter, and tln-ee of powdered 
sugar stirred together, till very light ; grate a little nut- 
meg over the top. 

MACE COMPOUND. 

Home Messenger. 

To take the place of sherry wine in puddings and sauces, 
soak half an ounce of mace eight hours in one teacupful 
of lemon juice, add half a teacupful of boiling water and 
scald twenty minutes. 

RAISIN SAUCK. 

Home Messenger. 

Cut half a pound of raisins and stew them in three tea- 
cupsful of water into which has been stirred, three table- 
spoonsful of imperial grits, and one saltspoonful of salt ; let 
stew thirty-five or forty nunutes, add half a teacupful oi 
six tables) )Oonsful of sugar and grate in half a nutmeg. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One lemon, six pieces of loaf sugar, one teacupful o! 
cold water, pare the rind from the lemon, and cut this in 
thin strips, put these strips of lemon rind into a suiall 
saucepan together with the lumps of sugar, and cover 
these with the coM water; scpieeze into the mixture the 
juice of the lemon ; put the pan over the fire and stir the 
contents until boiling, let all simmer slowly for twenty 



Flavourluff for SaiiceH. 



3G3 



minutes. This sauce should V)e poured over the pudding 
with which it is serve<l, so that the lemon rind may gar- 
nisli the top of the pudding. 

I'UDDINCi S.VrcE. 

il/i'.N'. (t. M. Iliifihlnon. 

Two eggs well Ix^aten, one cupful of whit*' sugar, when 
mixed pour over a cupful ol boiling milk and stir rapidly ; 
fliivour as you please. 

SAUC'K FOR PITDDIXC. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston. 

One cui)ful of sugar, one egg, one tablespoonfid of boiled 
milk, half a tablespoonful of lemon juice ; beat the eggs 
and sugar, put the boiled milk into it. 

Pl'DDINCi SAUCE. 

J/i«x AU'ia McKd'/. 

Smooth rioui- in cold watei', and add boiling water, sugar 
and spice, with the same (piantity of butter as Hour; stir 
over a slow fire. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

il//.s.s' Hot)et'tsoti, Thot'olO. 

Two cupsful of brown sugar mixed to })aste with butter 
the size of an t gg, add two tablespoonsful of cream or 
milk, stir well, and put in a cup of boiling water ; boil 
fifteen initnites, season with lemon or vinegar. 

FLAVOURING FOR SAUCES. 

Mrs. Wilktt, Chamhhj. 

Take ]»ie-plant, peel as if for pie, stew and strain same 
as fur jelly. To one ([uart of juice add one pound of 
l>rown sugar; \vn\ twenty niinutes, remove from fire, 



364 



The Canadian Economist. 



bottle and cork tight ; quantity to be used aceoidiiiy; to 
ta«te. 

PLAIN WHITE SAUCE 

Invalids Cook. 

To a teaHpoonful of arrowroot mix very gia(hially lialf 
a pint of new milk ; add a few grains of salt, and then 
put it into a small clean saucepan ; stir it one way over a 
good fire till it boils, and for a minute or two afterwards. 
Then put to it bj'^ degrees two ounces of butter, cut in 
little bits, and keep stirring till this is quite dissolved, 
when serve immediately. This is a very good plain sjukt 
for pouring over boiled fowl or wherever a white sauce is 
directed. It may be flavoured with lemon-peel very 
thinly pared, and a little pounded mace if liked ; and it 
may be made ri(;hei" by the addition of a little cieaiii. 
But the secret of making it smooth an<l white is, never 
to cease stirring for a moment, because the butter in that 
ease would turn to oil, and Hoat instead of mixing. If 
arrowroot is not at hand, flour w^ill do instead but the 
other is nicei-. 

HARD SAUCE. 

I^resht/fcruDL 

Beat one cupful of sugar and half a cupful of l)utter 
to a light cream ; add the whites of two eggs well beaten, 
and a tablespoonful of orange, lemon, currant, or any 
other juice with such seasoning as is agreeable ; Iteat all 
tooether a few minutes ; set on the ice to harden. 

OllAXGE SYRUP. 

This syrup is so easily made and can be used so con- 
stantly with advantage that no housekeeper should be 
without it. Select ripe and thin-skinned fruit, squeeze 
the juice through a sieve ; to every pint add one and a 
half pounds of powdered sugar, boil it slowly, and skim 



Orawje Syrup. 



305 



as long as any .scum rises. You may then take it off, let 
it f,a-ow cold and bottle it off; be sure and secure the 
corks well. Two tables poonsful of this syrup, mixed in 
melted luitter, mak«; an adniiraVjle sauce for plum or 
batter-pudding. 

SWEET 8AUCE. 

Allow (me ounce of sugar (brown is the best) to each 
person to be served, half that amount of l>utter creamed, 
and the yolk of one egf^, flavouring highly with a fresh 
lemon. 

maim:k svrup fok i'rj)i)iN(j. 

Godei/s Book. 

Boil maple sugar, with very little water, clarify with 
etro- and strain the svi'up. V^ary by meltini' a little butter 
in it after straining. Wiien maple sugar is expensive, 
use half coffetf-sugar. C'offee-sugar syrup, made as above, 
is tlie next thing to ma})le-s\'ru[). 

PLTI)DIN(J SAUCE. 

Godcffs Bool'. 

One cupful of butter, half a eu[)ful of sugar, yolk of one 
egg, beat together ; stir in half a cupful of boiling water; 
let it come to a boil, and when ready for use, flavour to 
taste. 

OKANGE SVIU r. 

Select ripe and thin-skinned fruit ; squeeze the juice 
tlirough a sieve, and to every pint add one pound and a 
half of loaf sugar; boil it slowly and skim as long as the 
scum rises; then take it off, let it grow cold and bottle it. 
Two tablespoonsful of this syrup, mixed with melted 
butter, make a nice sauce for plum or batter puddings. 
Three tablespoonsful of it on a glass of ice-water make a 
delicious beverage. 



Sfid 



The Canadian KconomAnL 



|'lIi)I)IN(J SAUCK. 

Godeys Bool*'. 

Whites of three eggs, beaten with one cupful and a lialf 
of powdered sugar, and a glass of any well flavoured jelly 
or preserve. 

SAUCE. 

GodcAjH Book. 

Beat together one egg, one teaspoonful of corn-starcli, 
one tablespoonful of flour, and two of sugar. Stu- it into 
half a pint of milk and flavour with vanilla after it is ro- 
moved from the fire. 

SAUCE NO. -2. 

Godcyfi Booh. 

One cupful of brown sugar, two tal)lcspoonsf iil of cream, 
one ounce of butter. Stir the butter and sugar thoroughly ; 
then add a little of the cream at a time, to keep from 
separating ; add raspberry vinegar for flavounng. 





CHAPTER XXIII. 
HOME-MADE EXTRACTS. 



EXTRACT or SPICES. 

Coolie ry for In va I i (is. 

CRUSH a niitineg,a dozen cloves and one blade of ginjijer 
put these into a small bottle and cover with unsweet- 
ened gin. Shake occasionally, and at the expiration of a 
fortnight let the spice settle ; drain off the extract and 
again let it stand until perfectly bright. A few drops of 
this is useful for flavouring. 

VAN ILL A. 

Coohivij for Invalids. 

Vanilla should be cut into small pieces, and should be 
covered with brandy— not more than two tablespoonsful 
>>houldbe allowed for a stick of vanilla. 

hEMON-PEEL. 

Cool'crij for Invalkh. 

The most important flavouring is that of leniOn-])eel 
which is too often wasted when the juice is used. If a 
lemon has to be sent to tal>le to eat with fish, rice, &:c., it 
oan be previously pared, or the less to interfere with its 
appearance, grated. If the peel is not required for im- 
mediate use, put it into a wide-mouthed bottle containing 
ft little gin. When it has stood a few days a delicious 



3()8 



llie Canadian EconomU^t. 



flavour will bo rea<ly ; tho flavourin<^ can also be usuil for 
rice puddin^^s, &;c. The grated peel may be mixed with 
sifted HUgar, put into a bottle and corked; it will thus 
retain the flavour of fresh peel for some time. 

ALMOND FLAVOURING 

Cookery jov Inval'idx 

Blanch bitter almonds, ])ut them into a l>ottle and cover 
with gin, shake occasionally during three or four weeks, 
then drain off the liquid, allow it to stand until fiiit' and 
it is ready for use. 

TO PRKSKRVE ORANGE PEEL. 

Mrs. Evans, Brlsfof, Quo. 

(Jut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, put the 
peel in strong salt and s[)ring water to soak for three 
days. Repeat this three times, then |)iit them cm a sieve 
to dry ; bail it and skin until ([uite clear; let the pouls 
simmer until quite transparent ; <lry them before the fire: 
take loaf sugar with just suHieient water to dissolve it, 
whilst the sugar is boiling put in the peels, stirring con- 
tinually until all the sugar is candied round them, then 
put them to dry either before the fire or in an oven, and 
when perfectly dry, put them past for use. 

NUTME(i EXTRACT. 

J/iffle Dinners. 

Grate or pound a few nutmegs, put in a bottle, and to 
each nutmeg allow about two tablespoonsfnl of gin. 

CLOVE EXTRACT. 

Little Dinners. 

Take an ounce of cloves, pound them, put them into a 
half-pint b)ttle, and fill up with gin. 



Cap'dlaire or Simple St/ruj) 



300 



VANILLA. 

Litf/f-Diitwrfi, 

Cut H stick into voiy small pieces. Put into a small 
liuttle aiul add two tablespoonsful of brandy. 

ALMOND FLAVOUR. 

Little Dinners. 

The almonds in thi.s flavour will be usoful for ring 
cakes, mince-meat and other purposes.and will keep a lon^ 
tiiiic in the bottle, as they retain a threat deal of the spirit. 

EXTRACT OF LEMON- I'ELL. 

Little Dinner!*. 

Peel very thinly twenty-fiv(i lemons, put the peel into 
two quart bottles, fill them up with brandy or unsweet' 
cikmI \f\\\, shake them occasionally durino- a month, then 
(hiiin off' the li(pior into small bottles. The peel, will keep 
tor years, and can be used chopped finely for any puqiose 
wliere lemon-peel is required. 

FLAVOURIN(} FOR CAKES. 

Mrs. W. B. Mc Arthur, Carleton Place. 

One ])int of alcohol, two ounces of vanilla, two ouncea 
uf lemon, two ounces of almond. 

CAPILLAIRE OR SIMl'LE SYRUP. 

Little Dinners. 

Tliijs syrup if properly made will keep a long time. Put 
a i)ound of the finest loaf sugar in large lumps, into a pint 
iind a half of boilinij water. Stir until dissolved, and 

• • « 

then let it boil till it beo^ins to thicken and assume a slight 

... . ® 

vellow tintre. Skim it carefullv all the time, and if due 

attention is given to this, it will require no other clari- 

24 



370 



2^he Canadian HiunmrniHt. 



ticatioM. VVlien finislHid, put tlio syrup into a jug, aiul but- 
tle it wlit^n perfectly cold. 

ESSENTK or (HlAN(iK. 

Ihutk of the Ifonsp/tidd, 

Ra.sp tlie rind of «;i<jfl»teen China oranges, and sciuccze 
in the juice, of six of them, mix tlic whole well and boil it 
in some syrup twenty minutes, stiiring it all tlu; time. 
When cold put it into liottles for use. 

ESSKNCK OK LEMON. 

Book of the HotxHeluAd. 

Rasp the lemons very thin, to a (piartc- of a pound of 
raspings allow oni; ]>ound of sugar, i)owdered as finely as 
possible. Mix well till it is all of a colour and well in- 
eorporated, press it down into small jars, tie white paper 
over it, and then leather or bladder. In one month it will 
be ready for use. 




i3 '^^1^^. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

MEHIN(JIJKS. 

ilA/««» EtVie, Dttr'w, Oftan-d. 

rj^HE wliitcsof tlireo »'^t»s, ono cupful of white su;4{ir. 
.L Boat tlio etjr»r.s to a stiti* frotli : add the sugar, and 
})eat togetlier until tlio mixture i.^s •*«> stiti* that it will 
not run. Droj* on »>;r('ased pajHT, an i cook foi- half an 
liour in a slow oven. 

TO MAKK A KKKr.CH MKUIN(JlTE. 

Home Mesae lifjcr. 

To each white of an egj^, lu'atcn as stiff' as possihle, 
take two heaping' tahlespoonfuls of pulvrriscd sui^ar, sift 
it slightly and slowly into the whites, stirring till smooth ; 
spread over your pie, pudding, oi" fruit, sift a very trifle 
of sugar over the toj), and bake (piickly. If the oven 
browns too fast, shade the meringue with a prper that 
does not touch it. 

ITALIAN MEKINlJL'KS. 

Home Mesne njcr. 

Boil four ounces of sugar slowly and steadily, with two 
talilespoonsful of water till it begins to crystalize, which 
can be told by its forming long threads, as you give 
the skimmer a sudden jerk ; then pour this into the 
whites of two eggs, beaten to a very stiff' froth, and stir 
for five or ten minutes oft' the tire ; sprinkle the top with 
split and blanchc<l almonds, aiid bake as you <lo French 
mtringues. 



372 



The Canadian Economist. 



APPLE MERINGUE. 

J//.s'.s R. McXachtan, ('oho t try. 

Sweeten and spice some nice apple sauce, beat in two 
or three ejjjgs, pour into a pudding-dish, and })ake quickly. 
When well crusted over, cov<n' with a uieiingue, made by 
whipping stiff the whites of three eggs with a little sugar. 
Shut the oven door to tinge slightly, 

AN APPLE MEUINGIIE. 

Nrs. Thnnas McKay. 

This is a delicious, quite showy dish, easy to make, and 
good when it is done. It needs gcjod ap; js, that is, those 
with a sprightly flavour ; pare, r|uarter, and remove the 
cores ; stew in an enamelled saucepan, with sugar to 
taste, and a little cinnamon, as soon as the apples are done 
through, having kept the ({uai'ters as whole as possible, 
turn them into a pudding-dish ; be careful not to break 
them up. While the apples are cooking, get the meringue 
ready. For a moderate sized dish, use the whites of four 
eggs, beaten to a firm froth, tour ouaces of sugar, and 
flavour with lem<m ; spread this over the apples in the 
dish, .set the dish in the oven, and bake until the surface 
is well and evenly bi-owned. Serve hot for dessert, hut 
some prefer to let it get cold, and «'at it with cream. 

MERINCJUES. 

Book of the Household. 

Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a solid froth, then adil 
the rind of six lemons grated extremely fine, and a spoon- 
ful of sifted sugar. After which lay a sheet of paj)er on 
a tin and with a spoon drop the mixture in little hinijis 
separately upon it, sift sugar over and put them to bake 
in a moderately heated oven, taking care they ai'e done of 
a nice colour ; then f)ut raspberry, apricot, or any other 



Ifnfian Mticaroons. 



573 



kind of jam between two of these bottoms, lay them to- 
gether, and set tliem in a warm place, or before the fii'e to 
dry. 

APPLE MERIN(JUE PIES. 

Common Sense in tlte Household. 

Stew and sweeten ripe, juicy apples, when you have 
pared nnd sliced them. Mash smooth and season with 
nutmeji;. If you like the flavour stew some lemon-peel 
witli the apple and remove when cold. Fill your crust 
and bake until just done. Spre?.d over the apple a thick 
meringue made by whipping to a stifi' Froth from tlie eggs 
for each |)ie, sweetening with a tablespconful of powdered 
sugar for each v^<x. Flavour this with rose water or 
vanilla. Beat until it will stand alone, and cover the pie 
thrt «^-quarters of an inch thick. Set it back in the oven 
until the meringue is well set. Should it colour too darkly, 
sift powdered sugar over when cold. Eat cold. They 
are very fine. Peach pies are even more delicious. 

ITALIAN MACAROONS. 

Godeys Booh. 

Take one pound of almonds blanclietl, pound them very 
tine with the whites of four eggs, add two pounds and a 
halt' of sifted loaf-sugar, and rub them well together with 
the })estle. Put in by degrees about ten or eleven more 
whites, working them as well as you put them in ; but 
the l)est criterion to go by in trying their brightness is to 
hake one or two, and if you find them h^'avy, use one or 
two more whites. Put the mixture into a bi.scuit-funnel, 
and lay them out on wafer-paper in pieces about the size 
of a small walnut, having i-eady about two ounces of 
hlanehed and dry almonds cut into slips, put three or four 
pieces on each, and bake them on wires, or a baking-plate 
ill a slow oven. Almonds should be blanclied and dried 
giadually two or three days before they are u.sed, by 




374 



The Canadian Economist 



which means they will work inucli better, and where lar<;(! 
quantities are used, it is advised to grind them in a mill 
provided for that purpose. 

mkhinguf: of aim'les. 
Cassfll's Dictionary of Cooh ry. 

Take twelve aj)ples (Russet or Ribstone pippins are tlie 
best, as they are less watery than others), rut them in 
quarters, take out the cores and slice ; ])lace tliem in a 
stewpan, and stir over a brisk fire for a quaiter of an 
hour, with six (junces of butter and a (jiiarter of a pound 
of pounded sugar ; when cool add two ta})lespo(msful <if 
jam, according to taste. Place the whole in the form ol" 
a pyramid in the centre of a dish and cover thickly with 
the whites of three eggs whipped to a firm cream witli a 
quartei* of a pound of pounded sugar. Lay this mixture 
on, spiinkle more sugar over and bake. When done the 
meringue should have acquired a pale yellow colour. 
Time about ten minutes to bake. 



(REAM MKIUNCJUE. 

Common Sense in fhc Household. 

Four eggs (the whites only) whipped stiff, with one 
pound of pomided sugar, lemon or vanilla flavouring. 
When very stifi' heap in the shape of half an egg upon 
stiff letter-paper, lining the bottom of your baking-])an, 
have them half-an-inch apart. Do not shut the oven door 
closely, b t leave a space through which you can watch 
them. When they are a lifjht yellow brown, take them 
out and cool ({uickly. Slip a thin bladed knife under 
each ; scoop out the soft inside and fill with cream 
whippe<l as for charlotte russe. They are veiy fine. The 
oven should be very iiot. 








CHAPTER XXV. 
CUSTARDS, CREAMS, fcc. 

FLOATING ISLANDS. 

Jlfr.s. Bfilihv'ni. 

SET tliree pints of nuw milk over a kettli' of boilinpf 
water, ItoMt the wliites of six o«]^gs to a stiff froth 
and when the milk boils put it in, in spoonsful, when 
scalded throuoh turn over, and when sufficiently cooked 
take tb jm out carefully and put on a plate. Beat the 
yolks with sujL^ar enough to make a rich custard, pour 
into the boiling milk and season with lemon. ^\ hen cohl, 
place the whites on top of the custard. 

APPLE SNOW. 

M I'fi. lirecl'on, Offuwa. 

Put twelve good tart apples in cold water. Set them 
over a slow fire. When soft, drain off the water, strip off' 
the skins, core them, lay them in a deep dish. Beat the 
whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, then add the beaten 
whites and beat the whole to a stiff" snow, then turn into 
a <lessert-<lish. Ornament with mvrtle or l)ox. 

HOILKI) (USTAlll). 

il/i.s'.s J. W. Carniicharl, Bry.^o)t. 

Two taldespoonsful of corn-starch to one quart of milk. 
Mix the corn-starch with a small fpiantity of milk and 



w 



370) 



The Cdnadvtn Economist. 



Havoiir with lemon, Beat two eggf^, heat the (juart of 
milk to nearly boiling point, then add the mixed corn- 
starch, the eggs, and four tablespoonsful of sugar. Stir it 
till it thickens. Pour into custard cups. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Anonymous. 

Boil one pint of cream, one half-pint of milk, cinnamon 
and lemon-peel a little of each ; when cold mix the yolks 
of three eggs, sweeten to make your pie-plate nearly full 
after lining with good paste. Bake iifteen minutes. 

CHICKEN CUSTARDS FOR rtlX. 

Mif^s Hopkirk, Ottawa. 

Take the yolks of four eggs, beat them up, to wliich 
add iive small custardcupsful of good plain chicken broth, 
mix the whole together, pass it through a sieve and till 
your cups with it. You then proceed to steam them in 
the same manner you would a cabinet pudding, observin*,' 
that the heat must not be too great as otherwise the con- 
tents would become hard and cviidle. 

N.B. — This receipt may be followed for making any 
sort of savoury custard, with the only diffen'nce of sub- 
stituting veal, beef, or any kind of broth you may have, 
for the chicken broth. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CUSTARD. 

Mrs. (Rev.) A. Kemp, D.J)., Ottawa. 

Set on to boil a quart of new milk, mix with half a 
cupful of cold milk, two ounces of grated sweet chocolate, 
pour some of the boiling milk to it, and then pour back 
into the pan of boiling milk, stirring it all the time, when 
heated through and just coming to boiling point, add 
the yolks of six eggs which have been beaten with a cnii- 



Ahnond Cm^tard. 



3 



i i 



ful (»f powdered sugar, when tliese are blemled add three 
whites beaten with a little extract of vanilla, reserving 
tlie other three whites for frosting. This is enough for 
ten cups. 

POTATO CUSTARD. 

Miss Lesslu', Kingston. 

To four medium-sized potatoes, boiled and mashed, a<ld 
two large tablespoonsfid of sugar, two eggs, one cupful 
of milk, and one ounce of butter. rBeat W(!ll and bake in 
a pudding-dish. Serve with sauce. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Miss If. H. Les.'^rn', Kiiif/ston. 

Pare and core twelve ap])les, steam until tender ; when 
cool pour over them the whites of three eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Serve with sugar and cream flavoured. 

BOILED (BUSTARD. 

Mi^s AJfic McKay. 

Three eggs, three teaspoonsful of |)owdered sugar, one 
quart of milk, boiled, one tablespoonful of corn-starch in 
iiiilk ; add eggs, sugar, and essence. Pour over this the 
lioiling milk ; stir gently over a slow fire till the custtird 
thifkens, but do not ]»oiI. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

Mrs. ir. 11. Mc Arthur, Carh'ton Fhicc. 

Two cupsful of fresh milk with a ])inch of soda stirred 
in, half a pound of almonds, blanched, dried and pounded, 
three beaten eggs, one-half cupful of powdered sugar, rose 
water, one cocoa-nut thrown into cold water and grated. 
Scald the milk, stir in the almond paste which should 
U* mixed in rosewaterto prevent oiling. Boil one minute 



S78 



The Canadian Economist. 



and pour upon the beaten eg^s and .sugar. Return to tlic 
lire, stii- till the mixture begins to thicken. Take ott' and 
pour into a bowl. When cold turn into a gla.ss dish and 
heap up with gi-ated cocoa-nut. Strew powdered sugar 
over all. 

\\\rv\ CUSTARDS. 

ilf/'.'j. TuoH. McKay. 

Sweeten a pint of milk with loaf .sugar, boil it with a 
stick of cinnamon, stir in sifted ground rice till (piitf 
thick. Take it off the tire ; add the whites of three eoj-s, 
well beaten ; stir it again over the fire for two or thivc 
minutes, then put it into cups that have lain in cold water 
do not wipe them. When cold turn them out and put! 
them into the dish in whicli they are to be served, p(inr 
round them a custaid made of the yolks of the eggs and 
little more than half a pint of milk. Put on the top a 
little red currant jellly or raspberry jam. 

FllENCH FMJMMKllV. 

Mrfi. Til OS. MrKiiii. 

Boil slowly two ounces of Isingla.ss .shavings in a ((uart 
of cream fifteen minutes ; stir all the time, and sweeten it 
with loaf sugar, not jiounded, lest any dust should be in 
it ; add a spoonful of rose water and souk* orange-tiowii 
water. Sti"ain it into a shape and serve witli baked pears 
around it. 

SNOW ( rsTARi). 

iVr.s'. Parr, Ottuwa. 

Half a package of ( Jox's gelatine, three eggs, and onr 
pint of milk, two cupfuls of sugar, juice of one ItMnoii. 
Soak the gelatine one hour in a teacupful of cold wattM'. 
To this, at the end of this time, add one pint of boiling! 
water. Stir until the gelatine is thoroughly dissidved; 
add two-thirds of the sugar and lemon juice, Bt\at tlnd 



Floatinfj Apple Island. 



370 



wliitds of the ctj^j^s to a stift' froth, and when the gelatine 
is quite cold whip it into the whites, a spoonful at a time, 
for at least an hour. When all is stiff, pour into a mould 
previously wet with co'd water, aiid set in a cold place. 
in four or five hours turn into a glass dish. Make a cus- 
tard of the milk, eggs, and remainder of the sugar ; flavour 
with vanilla, and when thi' meringue is turned out of the 
mould, pour this around tl.e base 

BAKEJ) crSTARI). 

Mrs. Thos. McKan. 

Boil and sweeten, with fiue sugar, a pint of milk and 
another of cream with a stick of cinnamon and a V»it of 
It'inou-peel ; fill the cups and bake for ten minutes. 

CHOCOLATK CITSTAKD. 

Mvx. B(i(h/er, Montvcul. 

One ounce of chocolate, one pint of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, three eggs. Mix all together. The 
milk, yolks of eggs, wliite of one a^^^f and chocolate dis- 
solved in warm Avater, and boil. When cool, pour over 
top sweetened whites of two (.1^^^^^. 

FLOATING APl'LK ISLAND. 
■* Mi'fi. Well ford, Renfrew. 

Boil six or eight large apples, when they are cold peel 
and core them, rub the pulp thoi-oughly through a sieve 
with the back of a wooden s[)oon, then beat up light with 
su*,far to youi" tcaste. Beat the whites of four eggs in 
orange water in another l)0wl till it is a light froth, then 
mix it with your apples, a little at a time, till all is beaten 
together and it is exceedingly light. Make a rich boiled 
nistard, put it in a glass dish, and lay the apples all ovei' 
it, anil garnish with currant jelly. 



3S0 



The Canadian EconomiHt. 



APPLE SNOW. 

Mr<'<. Jioclgcr, Montreal. 

Peel, core, aTi<l qu.irter twelve apjjje.s, stew gently witli 
H cup of ccld water ; wlien reduced nearly to ])ulp, turn 
into a dish ; make a soft custard of one (piart of milk, 
four ejL;;gs, sn^^ar and flavour to taste. When cold lay over 
the apples, an<l heat whites of four eggs with a (|i)art('r 
of a pound of powdered sugar, and heap lightly on titp. 

APPLE SNOW. 

MIkx Lizzie Stark, CarJetou Vhtcr. 

Stew sonic tine flavoured sour apples tender, sweeten to 
taste ; strain thenj through a sieve, and break into oiic 
pint of straine<l apples the white of an e^g ; whisk the 
apple and egg very briskly till very stiff, and it will lie 
white as snow. Eat with boiled custard. 

'JOMATO CUSTARl). 

Faniily Friend. 

This is said to be a beneficial diet for consumptives. It 
is made l)y straining finely stewed tomatoes throuoli ii 
coarse sieve and adding two pints of milk and one pint of 
tomatoes to four eggs an<l one teaspoonful of sugar : hake 
in small cups quickly. 

BAKED ('USTARI). 

Mrs. Whit,', Bradford, Pa. 

Beat the yolks of four fresh eggs for at least half an 
hour, add five ounces of pulverized sugar, then stir into 
the sugar and eggs one quart of rich new milk, cold, add 
one teaspoonful of distilled rose-water, or any tlavounnj,^ 
extract you fancy; fill your custard cups and set theniin 
a stovepan which is half filled with water (wann, not 



Chocolate Cream. 



381 



hot), put this pan in a moderate oven, in about twenty 
niiiuites it will get tirtn. Judgment and great eare ai'e 
needed to attain skill iji making custard; if left in tii(» 
(iven too long, or if the tii-e is too hot, the milk will cer- 
tainly whey. 

CHICK KN ULANC-MAN(;i:. 

Mrs. (Her.) A. Scoff, Oivcn Stnin<l. 

Cut up one cliieken, boil it slowly, adding salt and pep- 
per t( > taste ; when done skim out the chicken, remove 
the hones and pick the nieat ([uite fine; while doing this, 
let one pint ot" isinglas-^, broken up, be boiling in the 
liquor, then add the picked chicken, and let all boil to- 
ijL'ther for a few moments; then pour in a mould. WHien 
cold, it is an excellent dish for a cold suj>per, or to slice 
for sandwichea. 

RUSSIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. AlUnray, Wimnpn/. 

Half a box of gelatine, one t[uai't of milk, three eggs, 
one small cui)ful of sugar ; |)ut the gelatine in the milk 
1)11 the tire, an<l stii" well as it warms ; ))eat the yolks light 
with the sugar, and add to the scalding nnlk, then heat 
to boiling point again, stirring all th(i while^ then takeoff 
the stove, and in)mediately stir in the whites of the three 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; Havoin* with vanilla, and 
pour into a mould wet with cold water. 

(;h()colatk chkam. 

Mrs. Alloivay, WiiDilin}/. 

Half a box of gelatine, one ([uai't of milk (flouring mea- 
sure), three eggs and a cupful of sugar; put the gelatine 
ill the milk on the fire, and stir well as it warms ; beat 
tlie yolks lightly with the sugai- and half a cake of cho- 
colate scraped very fine, and add to the scalding milk ; 
then heat to boiling jwint again, stirring all the while ; 



382 



The Canadian Eamnmisf . 



then take oft" the stove, flavour with a little vauillu, and 
])<)iir into a mould ; wet with water. 



LEMON CREAM. 



J/is« Lilif Bain, Perth. 



The strained juice of two aud t^rated lind of one lemon, 
the whites of four e^^gs and yolk of one, a cupful of pow- 
dered sugar and a cupful of water ; heat the eggs verv 
slightly, stir in the sugar, lemon and water, then set the 
mixture on a modei-ate fire nnd stir till it thickens; |nit 



into glasses before it gets cold 

CHOCOI.ATK BI.AN('-MAN(M':. 

Mrs. liaiufH. 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in ;is sniall a (piaiitity of 
warm water as will cover it; when melted i)ut (jii the tin.' 
to dissolve ; four ounces of chocolate ; do not let it scorch, 
and when litpiid add one quart of neW milk and three- 
(juarters of a pound of sugar ; hoil all five minutes stirring 
constantly. Take off the fire, flavo'U' with vanilla, ami 
pour into moulds. 

TAIJOCA CUKAM. 

Mri^. Broiujh, Ottawa. 

Three tablespoonsful of tapioca, cover it with water 
soak four hours, pour oft" the water, put one ([uart of inilk 
over the fire, when it boils stir in the yolks of three e^'gs, 
and a little salt ; stir it till it begins to thicken ; uiake 
frosting of the whites of three eggs, spread over the top 
and flavour with vanilla. 

SPANISH (REAM. 

iU/".s\ Cnnnlrajham, Ottava. 
Ingredients : One quart of milk, four eggs, two taMi' 



spoonsful of gelatine, four of white sugar, a few drops 



f 



Charlotte Hume. 



383 



} It'lllUll. 


of [»()W- 


jgs very 
set tije 


'US ; put 



vanillii. Put tlu; j^clatine into half tlie milk, and l»oil un- 
til dissolved. Then add second lialf of tlie milk, and 
yolks of cg<^s well beaten with th»5 sugar, then mix in the 
whites of the eggs, and keep stirring until the ciggs are 
nH)k(Ml, then pour into a mould, and allow it to get quite 
toM he tore it is used. 

cHAin.oTTi': unssK. 

Mrx. ('rifcfti't, Monlrcd/. 

l)issolve four sheets of isinglass in one teaeupful of 
milk, one teaeupful of sugar, flavour with vanilla, to suit 
the taste. Take one quart of whipi)ed eieauj, heaten un- 
til it is stift* and pour into the isinglass aftei- it is cool. 

SPANISH CRKAM. 

Miss Ett'w Dm'ir, (Hhinui. 

One [)iiit of milk, half a l>ox of gelatine, three eggs, five 
liiblesj>oonfuls of sugar. Soak the gelatine in the milk 
until ([uite soft, add the sugar, and when it comes to the 
hoiliug point, add the beaten yolks of the eggs. Stir un- 
til it begins to thicken, then take it off the tii-e, and stir 
in the whites of the eu'fjs beaten to a froth. Flavour with 
vanilla and ])oui' ijito moulds. To be served with sauce. 



(ilAllLOTTE Kl'SSK. 

Mrs. Doiialclsun. 

Make into a custard, three eggs, half a pound of sugar, 
one pint milk, h-aving out the white of one e<^*f to glue 
the cakes with. Dissolve half box of gelatine in half a 
pint of cold water, and let it sinnuer on the lire ; bt ain 
this into the custard, and stir until it is cold. Whip to a 
froth one quart of rich cream flavoured according to taste. 
Flav(jur the custard with vanilla, and iiix the cream in 
lightly, when the cu'^tard is cold and stiff enough to re. 



384- 



Tkt Canadian Econom'mt. 



coivo it, then flour into a mould or ^lass dish lined with 
thin^slice.s of sponge cakcor ladiesHn<^«'rs three dozen. Ladv 
Hn«^'«'r.s answer for a large ruould. 

HAMIU'HC; CUKAM. 

M in'Oeirar. 

Yolks of five eggs, juice of one lemon, one cu|»ful of wliitc 
sugar, boat these well together, set in a dish of hot water 
a!id cook until i^ is thick ; heat the whites to a stifi'frotli, 
pour the yolks iuio the whites, and stir well. 

(•ALK!K)NIA ("UKAM. 

Mi'x. I'ji'ans, Bristol. 

The whites of two eggs, two tahjospoonfnls of siiLfar. 
two of raspberry j)reserves. Beat all well together tlirei- 
(piarters of an hour. 

SPANISH CJ^KAM. 

Miss Kate Farrel/, h'iinjfidni. 

One half box of gelatine, one (juart of milk, the yolks 
of three eggs, and one small cupful of white sugar. Soak 
the gelatine in the milk one hour, then put on the Hiv, 
and stir well as it warms. Beat the volks and suii'ar well 
towther, add to the scalding; milk, and allow to come to 
the boiling ])()int. Flavour and strain through a thin 
muslin bag, when almost cold put into a mould, wet with 
cold water. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. Hutchison, Ottawa. 

A pint,of thick sweet cream and half a pint of milk, two 
glassesful of sweet cidei-, a dessertspoonful of rosewater, 
and five ounces of sugar. One and a half ounces of gela- 
tine, dissolved first by putting it in cold then in boiling 
Mater, to be poured into the cream, but not until it ha.s 



charlotte Rusce, 



385 



b(»en strained. Mix cream antl mill^ first, then sugar ami 
cider, and the gelatine hist. The ingredients must be very 
thoroughly Ix'aten before this last is put in. Fill your 
ji'l]\ -moulds, and when firm turn out. 

(JHARLOTTE RUSSK. 

JV//«.v IJopl'ii'k. 

lltMit three })ints of jnilk to near a boiling point, .stir 
into it the yolks of eight eggs and a large tablespoonful 
of corn- starch. Let it thicken a little, sweeten and Havour 
to taste. Lay slices of sponge-cake in the dish, then pour 
over the pudding, add to the to|) the whites of the eggs, 
set it in the oven, and let it warm slightly. 

SNOW (REAM — A SUPPKR DISH. 

Mrs. J. F. Lcfis/ie, Kingston. 

The whites of four eggs, half ounce of gelatine. Steep 
the gelatine in a little cold water, then vli.s.solve the sugar 
and gelatine in boiling water, making about a pint in all. 
Flavoui- with lemon or any other es.sence to taste. Whip 
the whites of the eggs to a stiti' fi-oth, mix them with the 
other ingredients, beat together, standing t)i<' basin in cold 
water, or on the sill of an opi'ti window, till the mixture 
is tiiick enough to stand on th(i fork. Take the whites 
of the eggs, wet the mould, and pour in. A custard served 
round the dish when tht; cream is turned out is considered 
an improvement. 

CHARU^TTK RUSSE. 

Mrs. J. Leslie, OttuvHi. 

Ingredients — About eighteen savoury biscuits, three- 
quarters of a pint of cream, flavouring of vanilla, one 
tablespoonful of pounded sugar, half a tablespoonful of 
isinglass. Brush the edges of the ladies' fingers firm to 
rest upon. Great care is jequired in the turning out of 
2o 



asu 



The Canadian Economist. 



this dish, that the cream does not burst the case, and the 
edges of the lingers mast have the smallest quantity of 
e^g brushed over them, or they would stick to the mould, 
and so prevent the charlotte russe coming away freely. 

SPONGE CREAM. 

Mrs. {Rev.) J. McEwen, ImjersoU. 

Half a box of gelatine, one quart of milk, four eggs, 
three tcblesi)Oonst'ul of sugar, beaten with the yolks of 
the eggs, Dissolve the gelatine with the milk, when dis- 
solved scald the mifk and add the yolks. Stir till doin . 
then add the whites of the eggs, and pour into moulds. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Miss. Allic McKny. 

One pint of cream, whipped, half an ounce of gelatine. 
dis.solved in one gill of hot milk, whites of two eggs, 
beaten to a froth, one small teacupful of powdered sugar, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, mix sugar, cream, and eggs, 
and essence, in the gelatine. When cold, line a nioultl 
with ladies' fingers, and pour in the cream. Set on ice. 

I'EACH MERINGUE. 

Mrs. Massvn, Detroit. 

Cut up peaches, and put in the bottom of a dish ; sprin- 
kle them with .sui:^ar. Make an icino- of the whites uf 
three eggs and three-fourths of a cupful of sugar, spread 
over the peaches, and bake a few minutes. 

BLANCMANGE. 

Mrs. Masson, Det oit. 

Take four ounces of sweet almonds, blanched, half an 
ounce of bitter almonds, pound them in a wedgwood mor- 
tar, moistening them graduallj^ with orange-flower water, 



Lemon Cream. 



^87 



mix this with one quart of fresh cream. Have the largest 
half of a box of Cox's gelatine soaking in half a cupful of 
cold water one hour. Set your cream and almonds on the 
tire, stiring constantly ; when it comes to a scald, pour in 
the gelatine, and stir till it dissolve's. Put in moulds. 

APPLE C'KKAM. 

Mrs. Thomas MlKuj. 

Put into a pan twelve tahlespoonsful of the pulps of 
baked apples (the whiter the better), the same proportion 
of cream, beat well together with a pint and a quarter of 
lemon jelly, made with one ounce and a quarter of Cox's 
gelatine ; lemon juice, peel and sugar to taste. Clear 
the jelly with the white of an a^^^. 

BLANCMANi^E. 

J/r.s'. Thox. McKay. 

Break half an ounce of isinglass in small })ieces, and 
wash well, pour on a j)int of boilirig water, next morning 
add a quart of milk, and boil until the isinglass is dis- 
solved, and strain it. Put in two ounces of blanched 
almonds, pounded, sweeten with loaf sugar, and turn it 
into the mould. Stick thin slips of ahuonds all over the 
blancmange, and dress around with whip-cieam. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Mrs. Thomas MrKa>i. 

Take a pint of thick cream and i>ut to it the yolks of 
two eggs, well-beaten, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
finely powdered, and the rind of a lemon cut thin ; boil it up 
and stir it until it is nearly cold, put the juice of a lem(m 
into a dish and pour the cream upim it, stirring till quite 
cold. 



888 



The Canadian Economist 



CHOCOLATE MOSS. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Beat the whites of eggs with powdered sugar flavoured 
with rose or vanilla, to a stiff" foam ; make water choco- 
late very thick, and when cold beat it up with the eggs 
and sugar ; use one stick of chocolate and the white of an 
eg^ to each person. Excellent. 

CURDS OF CREAM. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

With about half a tablespoonful of rennet, turn two 
quarts of milk just from the cow, drain oft' the whey and 
till a mould with the curd ; when it has stood an hour or 
two turn it out, strew coloured comfits over it; sweeten 
some cream, mix grated nutmeg with it and pour it round 
the curd. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

il/fss Mcliac, Renfrew. 

Dissolve four sheets of gelatine (or a third of a hox of 
Cox's) in a cup of sweet milk, heat the milk first but 
don't boil it; when perfectly dissolved strain through mus- 
lii), add one cupful of good sweet cream, beat the whites of 
four eggs with four tablespoonsful of milk to a stiff' froth, 
all together, flavour to taste, line a mould with sponge 
cake ; pour in and set away to cool ; when ready for tlie 
table beat three whites of three eggs and three tal)le- 
spoonsful of sugar. Ice over and you have a delicious 
dessert. 

AMERICAN CREAM. 

Mrs. Matchmore, Ottaiva, Kansas, 

Put half a box, (twenty-five cent box) of gelatine in 
one quart of milk, let it soak half an hour, then let it come 
to a boil, set off the stove, so that it will not be boiling 



Iceland Moss. 



389 



when the eggs are added; put in the yolks of four eggs 
well beaten, with three tablespoonsful of sugar : replace 
on the stove to heat, but not to boil, then add three whites 
of four eggs, beaten with three tablespoonsful of sugar ; 
tlavour and pour in moulds. 

WHIPPED CKEAM. 

ilf/.ss M., Kingston. 

One quart of cream put into a bowl with some pow- 
dered sugar and a very t^niall drop of naroli ; have ano- 
ther utensil Avith a sieve over it, whip the cream with 
a whisk, and as it lises in a froth take it oft' with a skim- 
mer, and put it on the sieve to continue till finished, al- 
ways returninjr to the bowl that which diains from the 
sieve ; when done, put it into your dish, ornament with 
zest of lemon, It is likewise served in glasses. Wafer 
also a garnish. 

T A PI< )( 'A IJL ANCM AX< i V.. 

Miss M. , KiiKjston. 

Haifa pound of tapioca, soaked in a pint of new milk 
one hour, then boiled till tender, sweeten to taste with 
loaf sugar, flavour with lemon, almond or vanilla ; pour 
into a mould, turn out, serve with custard or cream and 
preserves, if wislied. • 

ICELAND MOSS. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Dried mo.ss half an ounce, boiling /ater a pint; digest 
i»i- infuse in boiling water two hours in a close vessel, boil 
a (|uarter of an hour and strain while hot; it is clear and 
hitter and will jelly even when made with eight waters ; 
some take it combined with chocolate or coft'ee, it is plea- 
santer. It is most valuable in dysentery, consumption, 
spitting of bloodj hooping cough, measles, &c, 



390 



The Canadian Economist. 



C'AKRAGKEN MOSS BLANCMANGE. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Steep it a minute or two in cold water, it will soften 
and spread out, wash it well and put into cold milk, let it 
boil a minute or two, then strain, sweeten and flavour. 
A small handful is enough foi* a pint of milk. 

CHARLOTTE RISSE. 

Mrs. Hi ram Hohinson. 

Onecjuartof lich cieam,fGureggs,half a pack age of Cox's 
gelatine, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. Beat 
yolks and sugar together. Add whites heaten stiff. Whip 
the cream light and smooth, flavour with vanilla. Stir 
all together and stiain in the gelatine thoroughly. Serve 
in a glass dish. Ornan^iCnt with ladies' fingeis or maca- 
roons, or pour into a dish lined with sponge cake. 



ITALIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. H'lrum Bohinsou. 

Put the juice of one lemon and the rind of two to one 
quart of thick cream, with half a pound of sugar, and let 
it stand for half an hour, tlien whisk it till it becomes very 
thick, add one ounce of isinglass dissolved in half a pint 
of water till ])erfectly smooth and free from lumps. Strain 
the whole mixture through a fine sieve and beat for sev- 
ei-ai minutes, put into a mould or moulds, and when colli 
and perfectly set, turn out upon a dessert-dish. 

RICE BLANCMANGE. 

Mrs. Rosy, O.L.C. 

Rub smooth about two ounces of ground rice, in a little 
milk, then take a quart of milk and boil it with the peel 
of half 9, lemon, and a few alinonds, sweeten it with loftt 



Snow. 



391 



8U<,'ar, and stir the rice into it over the fire until it is 
thick and then put it into a mould. When turned out 
cover it witli custard. Wet the mould before you put in 
the rice. 

VELVET CRE\M. 

Mrs. Urquhart, Pderhorowjh. 

Half a cup of gelatine in a cup of cold water. Scald 
one quart of milk. Beat up the whites of live eggs with 
ten tablespoon sful of white sugar, add all the milk and 
i)oil together, l)eat the whites to a stiff froth, take from 
the fire, and stir in the whites when cool. Add vanilla to 
Havour. Pour into the mould and let it cool. 

BURNT CREAM. 

Mrs. Urqiikai't, Felerhuroitgh. 

From one quart of milk take enough to blanch thorough- 
ly three-fourths of a cupful of wheat tlour, or rather less 
of corn-starch. Scald the remainder of the milk and pour 
on the paste — stirring well. When smooth jwur back 
into the saucepan, and let it boil till it thickens. Mean- 
while in another pan, let one cup of brown sugar melt 
and burn accordingly. Into this pour the boiling milk, 
and tiour and boil all together. Mould and serve with 
wiiipped cream round the dish. 

SNOW. 

Miss Maggie White, Hamilton. 

Soak half a sixpenny package of gelatine in cold water, 
just enough to cover it, then add nearly a breakfast cup- 
ful of boiling water,stirring well, that it maybe thoroughly 
dissolved. To this when slighly cooled ad<l the whites of 
two eggs, half a pound of white sugar, and juice of one 
lemon, whisk well for half an hour. Pour it into a 
mould which has been previously rinsed with cold water. 



392 



The Canadian Economist. 



APPLE TRIFLK. 

Younfj Ladies Journal. 

Ten good-sized apples, the rind of half a lemon, six 
ounces of pounded sugar, half a pint of milk, half a pint 
of cream, two eggs, whipped cream. Peel, core, and cut 
the apples into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan, 
with two tablespoonsful of water, the sugar and minced 
lemon rind. Boil all together until quite tender, and pulp 
the apples through a sieve ; if they should not be quite 
sw^eet enough, add a little more sugar, and put them at 
the bottom of the dish to form a thick layer. Stir to- 
gether the milk, cream, and eggs, with a little sugar over 
the fire, and let the mixture thicken, but do not allow it 
to reach the boiling point. When thick, take it off the 
fire, let it cool a little, then j)our it over the apples. Whip 
some cream with sugar, lemon peel, &c., the same as for 
other trifles, heap it high over the custard, and the dish is 
ready for table. It may be garnished as fancy dictates, 
with strips of bright apple jelly, slices of citron, kc. 

SA(J() CREAM. 

A noiii/mous. 

f, 

A tablespoonful of good pearl sago, boil in pure vvatei- 
till reduced to a jelly ; add one cupful of sweet cream 
and boil again, beat up one fresh id^^ very light, and poui- 
the sago on while hot, sweeten and spice with nutmeg or 
flavour with lemon or vanilla to taste. 




CHAPTER XXVI. 

ICE-CREAM, WATER ICES AND FROSTING PHIL- 
ADELPHIA ICE-CTIEAM. 



Mrs. H. F. Branson. 

TWO quarts of milk (cream when you have it), three 
tablespoonsful of arrowroot. The whites of eight 
eggs, well beaten; one pound of powdered white sugar. Boil 
the milk, thicken it with the arrowroot, add the sugar, 
and pour the whole upon the eggs. FIavt)ur to taste with 
lemon or vanilla. 

ANOTHER ICE CIIEAM. 

AfrK. H. F. Ih'oiisoii. 

Tiiree (piarts of cream or milk, two nnd a-half pounds 
of sugar, twelve eggs, well beaten ; mix all together in a 
tinpail, add one; vanilla bean (split). Put the ])ail into a 
kettle of boiling water, and stii" all the time, until the cus- 
tard is quite thick. After it is cool, add two (piarts of 
ricli cream, and freeze it. 

CURRANT RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY WHISK. 

M7'8. H. F. Bronson. 

Put two gills of the juice of the fruit to ten ounces of 
ciuslied sugar ; add the juice of a lemon and a pint and 
a half of creaui. Whjsk till thick, and serve in jelly 



31)4 



The Canadian Economwt. 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Mvi*. H. F. Bronson. 

Rub a pint of strawberries through a sieve, add a pint 
of cream and four ounces of powdered sugar, and freeze it. 

ICE CREAM (delicious). 

Mrs. Cruchef, Montreal 

One ([uart of sw^eet cream, one quart of milk, beat tlio- 
roughly together with a pound of sugar ; add for vanilla 
cream, the whites of four eggs thoroughly beaten together. 
Flavour with vanilla, lemon or orange, as ])referred. Plact- 
it in the freezer and keep constantly in motion while 
freezing. 

ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. McTavish, (hrjoodc 

Two and a-half quarts of milk, about one pound of 
sugar, four eggs, one-half of a small box of gelatine put in 
some of the milk ; place on the back part of the stove 
until dissolved, then add balance of milk ; flavour and 
freeze. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Take the juice of four lemons, and the peel of one grated, 
add two gills of syrup and one pint of cream ; mix it al- 
together, press it through a sieve and freeze it. 

PINE-APPLE CREAM. 

Mrs. Thos. McKai/. 

Have some pine-apple prepared in syrup and cut into 
small dice, putting it into your cream with a little of the 
syrup. The other process as usual. 



Lemon Ice Wa^er. 



393 



K^E CREAM. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

One quart of cream, one coffeecupful of sugar, flavouring 
directly before freezing, add tlie beaten whites of four, 
five or six eggs ; if there is a daslier in the freezer the 
cream will be sufficiently frothed, otherwise it must be 
wliij)|)ed before freezing. Work the dasher until it is 
very thick and stiff. It is important to use the ice and 
salt directly they are mixed. 

WATER ICES. 

If made from jams, you must rub them through a sieve 
adding thick bciled syrups and lemon juice and some jelly 
and colouring ; if for pink, add the white of an egg whipt 
ii|) before you add it to the best half of a pint of spring 
water. If of jam, you must have a pint of mixture in all 
to make a quart mould. If from fiuits with syrup, you 
will not require water. 

ORANGE ICE WATER. 

Tlie juice of six oranges and grated peel of three, the 
juice of two lemons; squeeze out every drop of juice, and 
let the grated peel steep in the juice, strain well through 
a tine cotton cloth ; mix in one pint of sugar, then one 
jiint of water ; freeze as you wouhl ice cream. 

LEMON TCE WATER. 

Make a syiup of three-c^uarters of a pound of sugar and 
three-quarters of a pint of water; it should be well boiled 
in a bain-marie, or if not handy, a jug placed in a sauce- 
pan of hot water wnll do equally well ; take three-quar- 
ters of a pint of lemon juice, rub the peel of four lemons 
on to lumps of sugar and add to the juice, pour in the 
syrup, let it stand two hours, then strain and freeze ; when 
the ice begins to set ip the tin, stir in the white of an 



3(k; 



The Canadian Economist. 



vtTjf previously beaten up witli a little tine sugai- 
recipe makes a pint and a lialf. 



Thi, 



FRUIT KKS. 



Domestic Cooke nj. 

The.se n\a3' be made either with water or cream ; if 
water, two ])()Unds of fruit, a pint of sprin^^ water, a pint 
of clarified sugar and the juice of two lemons. 

CUB RANT I("K WAl'KR. 

Miss Heeelter. 

Press the juice Irom ripe currants, strain it ami jmta 
pound of sugar to eacli pint of juice. Put it into bottles, 
cork and seal it, and keep it in a cool, dry place. When 
wanted, mix with ice-water for a drink or put water vvitli 
it ; make it very sweet and freeze it. Freezing always 
takes away much of the sweetness. The juices of otiier 
acid fruits can ])e used in the same way. 

FROSTIN(i. I 

Home Messenger. 

To one cupful of sugar, tak(! tlie white of one oji^'. 
iust cover the suijar with water and let it boil without; 
stirring until it ropes; have the egg beaten and when the| 
sugar has boiled sufficiently stir into the egg, and con- 
tinue stirring till cool. If boiled too much and the frost- 1 
ing is inclined to dry before cooling, it can be reuKMhed 
by adding a drop or two of hot water. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

M7\ J. F. Leslie, Kingston. 

One quarter of ,a pound of white sugar and the whitesl 
of two eggs. Pour enough water on the sugar to dissolvej 
it, then boil until it hangs from the spoon in stringsl 



To Make Icltnj for (\ikes. 



397 



l^oui it boiling hot on the beaten whitos of the eggs and 
stir till nearly cold. Grate the chocolate and have a 
sufticient quantity to give it a dark brown colour. 

ICINCJ VOR FKUIT I'lKS AND TAUTS. 



Mrs. Thou. Me Kit 11 . 






The common mode is to take the white of an 
whisked to a froth, mixed thickly with pounded sugar 
and laid on v. Iu'» a ([uill feather. For larger tarts it should 
however be laid on more thicklv, and comfits or lemon- 
peel may be stuck into it. 

AI-MONI) 1<MN(J FUR CAKK.S. 

To every ])ound of finely pounded loaf sugar allow one 
pound of sweet almonds, the whites of four ig^^^, a little 
rose-water. Blanch the almonds and pound them (a few 
;it a time) in a mortar to a paste, adding a little rose- 
water to hasten the operation. Whisk the whites of the 
t'ggs to a strong froth, mix them with the pounded almonds, 
stir in the sugai- and beat all together. When your cake 
is sutficiently baked lay on the almond icing, and put it 
in the oven to dry. Before laying this mixture on the 
cake, great care must I e taken that it is nice and smooth, 
whieh is easily accomplished by well beating the mixture. 

TO MAKE ICING FOR CAKKS. 

Mrs. Titos. McKay. 

Take of the best white sugar one pound and pour over 

lit just enough cold water to disolve the lumps ; then take 

the whites of three Qggi and beat them a little but not to 

a stitl' f roth, add these to the sugar and water ; put it in 

la deep bowl, place the bowl in a vessel of boiling water 

land l^eat the mixture. It will first become clear and thin 



n98 



Thfi Canadian IHconomUt. 



and afteiwardH begin to thicken. Wlien it becomes (jultc 
thick remove it from the tire, and continue the beatin<' 
until it becomes cold and tliick encjugli. then spread it on 
\vitl> a knife. It is perfectly white, glistens heautifullv. 
and is so hard and smooth when dry that vou mioriit 
v/rite with a pencil on it. 

FROSTING WITHOUT KGOS. 

Mi»8 Ma(j(jle Btinton, Bradford, Pa. 

Take a teaspoonful of gelatine in one-third of a toa- 
spoonful of boiling water, stir enough of pulverized sugar 
(after the gelatine is Avell dissolved) to make a thick frost- 
ing, flavour with lemon, it will require but little Imatin;;. 
Spread on when the cake is cold. 




CHAPTER XXVII. 
CAKE, COOKIES AND (ilNOER-BREAl). 



FRUIT CAKE. 
Miss Bcrru, Toronto. 







NE 



(I of butter beat t( 



nine eg<^^ 



3ne pound of 
eat in two at 
rt time, one pound of layer raisins stoned, one pound of 
seedless raisins cleaned, one pound and a half of currants, 
one pound of sifted flour, half a pound of mixed peel, 
lemon, citron, orange, half a pound of almonds cut in 
Itieces, one teaspoonful of <^round cloves, one of black 
pep[)er, one grated nutmeg, three tea})oonsful of allspice, 
three of cinnamon, a little ginger, less than a teaspoonful, 
a little powdered mace,one teaspoonful of essence of lemon, 
one of orange-flower water, a glass of molasses and a 
|iiii(*l) or two of sal volatile. 

SI'UNCJE TAKK. 

JZ/y-s Mauri Berry. 

Four eggs, one cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, half 
a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, quarter of soda. Flavour 
with lemon. 

FROSTED CAKE. 

Miss Lizzie Berry, Toronto. 

Four eggs, a cupful and a half of sugar, a cupful and 
la half of butter, a cupful of milk, two cupsful ot flour 



400 



TIlc Canadian EconomiBt. 



"I 



a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a half teaspoonfiil of 
saleratus. Flavour with lemon. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Miss Lizzie Berry, Toronto. 

A pound of butter, a pound of sugar, eight eggs, two 
pounds of currants, two pounds of raisins, spice, a pint of 
molasses, two teaspoonsful of saleratus, a pound of citron. 
This makes two loaves. 

prince's cake. 

Miss Maud Berry. 

One coffeecupful of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, 
four teaspoonstul of ])aking powder, half a pound of stoned 
raisins; iiavour with lemon, six eggs — two broken in at a 
time. 

.lELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. G. it. Bl/'ty 

One cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, three 
eggs beaten separately, half a cupful of milk, three tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, one cupful of flour, half a 
cupful of cornstarch. Put in three tins. When clone 
spread jelly over, or the following, half a pint of milk, 
half a cupful of sugar, two teaspoonsful of cornstarch. 
Beat eggs, swrch and sugar together; stir into the milk. 
Put in tin dish and set in boiling water till done. When 
])artiy cooled flavour with lemon. 



SNOW CAKE. 

Riss Bell Bhjfh. 

Three-quarters of a cupful of butter, two cupfuls of 
sugar, one cupful of milk, two cupsful of flour, one ci;pf"lj 
of corn-starch, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, wliites 



Jelly Cake. 



401 



onful of 



^.,_, two 
a pint of 
of citron. 



• of flour, 

of stoned 

en in at a 



iter, thre*; 
■liree tea- 

11 , half ii 
I (Ml clone, 
of milk, 
[ornstarch. 

the milk. 
le. When 



|>ne cv 
lev, %v 



.fills of 

pfui! 



lutes 



of seven eggs well beaten; mix corn-starch, flour and 
baking-powder together. Add to butter and sugar, alter- 
:iately, with milk. Lastly, add whites of eggs ; season 
with lemon. 

SPONGE CAKK. 

Miss Booth, Ottawa. 

Four eggs, one cupful of maple sugar, one cuj)! ul of floui ; 
hoat whites to a froth and add sugar. Beat yolks and add 

Sift in flour as liglitly as possible. 



to sugar and whites 



A SMALL SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Breden. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of milk, one egg, ono 
teaspoonfui of cream of tartar, one of soda, butter, size of 



egg; flour 



MAUIiLE CAKE. 

Mrs. Breden. 

For White, one cupful of white sugar, whites of four 
eggs, half a cupful of butter, three-quarters of a teaspoon- 
fill of soda in half a cupful of sour milk, one and a half 
teaspoonsful of cream of tartar mixed into two cupsful of 
Hour. For Brown — half a cupful of brown sugar, yolks 
of four ego-s, half a cupful of molasses, half a cupful of 
liutter, threequarters of a teaspoonfui of soda dissolved in 
liaiF a cupful of sour milk, one teaspoonfui of allspice, one 
of cloves, one of nutmeg ; mix, colour alternately, bake in 
a ijuick oven. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Baivjs. 

Half a cupful of butter, one and a half cupful of sugar, 
two cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonsful of Cook's Friend, 
foar eggs beaten separately, one and a half cupfuls of 

milk. 

26 



402 



The Canadian EconowAst. 



GOLD CAKE. 

My 8. Brown, Ottav:a. 

Yolks of eight eggs, oue cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
butter, half a cupful of milk, one and a half cupsful of 
Hour, one and a half teaspoonsful of baking powder, va- 
nilla flavouring. 

SILVER CAKK. 

Mrs. Brown, Ottawa. 

Same as above, only use the whites of the eggs. Flavoin 
with lemon. 

Sl'ONGK CAKK. 

Mrs Breckou, Ottawa. 

One cupful of sugar, one of flour, four eggs, two s[)oous- 
ful of cold water, two teaspoonsful of baking powder. 
tlavour to taste. Bake in a slow oven. 

WHITK SP()N(;K CAKK. 

Mrs. Breckon, Ottawa. 

One cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, whites of ten 
eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and half a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Seasoning. 

FRUIT CAKK. 

Mrs. Breckon, Ottawa. 

A pound and a half of sugar, one pound and a half of 
ilour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, six eggs, one cup- 
ful of sour milk, two teaspoonsful of soda, two pounds of 
raisins, two pounds of currants, half a pound of citron, two 
teaspoonsful of ground cloves, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, take out a cupful of t. • 
batter before putting in the fruit, then paste it over the 
cake. Bake slowly about three hours. 



Chocolate Cake. 



40;^ 



^i^^\ of 
iful of 
er, va- 



^'lavoiii 



Hpouns- 
powder, 



ts of ten 
f a tea- 



half uf 

|ne eup- 

inds of 

|on, two 

cinna- 

of i. > 

:er the 



•lELLY C'AKK. 

Mi 8. B reckon, Ottawa. 

Tliree oggs, one cupful of sugar, cue heaping cUpful of 
flour, one-third of a cupful of sweet cream, one teaspoon- 
fnl of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, season- 
ing to taste. 

JELLY CAKK. 

Mrs. Baptie. 

Three eggs, one cu})ful ot white sugar beaten with the 
t'lfos. Butter, half the size of an esjfg, melted, two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, mix 
in half a cupful of milk, one-half cupf-ul of Hour. Bake 
in Hat tins. 

SHORT BREAD. 

Mrs. Baptie. 

Half a pound of butter, one-fourth <*f a pound of white 
sugar, mix until of a creamy consistency ; add as much 
Hour as it will take u[). Roll half an inch thick. Put 
pai)er in the bottom ot" the pan, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Miss Lilij Bain. 

One very full cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, 
three and a half cupsful of flour, one cup not (piite full 
of milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half 
a teaspoonful of soda. Beat the yolks of the five egofs and 
whites of three sej)arately, very lightly. Put the cream 
of tartar in the flour and the soda in the milk, rub the 
hutter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, milk and flour, 
pour the mixture into a large shallow pan. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Beat the whites of the two eggrs to a stiff 
iiotli, and stir in the sugar (one and a half cupsful) ; add 



404 



The Canadian Economist. 






six tablespooiisful of grated chocolate and the essence of 
vanilla. When the cake is done turn it out and while hot 
put on this icing. When this hardens, a white icing may 
be put on top. 

CHANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. {Captain) Cowley. 

Two cupsful of sugar, yolks of five eggs, whites of twd 
eggs, half a cupful of cold water, two and a half cupsful 
ot Hour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, the juice and 
rated rind (j*? orange, a pinch of salt, bake in jelly cake 
tins. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add 
seven lai'ge spoonsful of powdered sugar and the giated 
rind and juice of one orange. Spread this between tlu' 
lavers. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. (Captain) Cowley. 

Four eggs, two cupsful of sugar, half a cupftil of cold 
water, two cupsful of Hour, one teaspoonful of soda, twd 
teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one lemon grated Hue, and 
one cupful of white sugar. Spread between the laycis. 

COCOA-NUT SPONOE CAKE. 

Mrs. Cr LI chef, Montreal. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs with half a pound of .sugar, 
one-([uarter pound of Hour ; add a teaspoonful of essence 
of lemon. Stir in the white of six eggs beaten to a froth, 
add the greated pulp of one cocoa-nut. 



PRUNELLA DROPS. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, one cupful 
of milk, two eggs, one tea.spoonful of soda, two teaspoons- 



Silver Cake. 



40: 



ful of cream of tartar, flour to make stifl" enough to drop 
from the spoon. 

FKUIT CAKE. 

Miss Maggie Carmichael, Bryson. 

Two cupsful of butter, four cupsful of brown su^ar 
six pounds of fruit, nine eggs, one and a half teaspoonfu 
of soda, three teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one table 
spoonful of nutmeg. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Crannels, Ottawa. 

One cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of 
soda, one teaspoonful of vinegar ; mix thoroughly the 
Hour, sugar, cream of tartar and soda, then add the eggs 
well beaten ; just before putting into the oven add the 



vin('<'ar. 



COLD EN CAKE. 

Mrs. Cranuels, Ottawa. 

One pound of flour dried and sifted, one pound of sugaj', 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, yolks of fourteen 
eggs, yellow part of two lemons grated, and the juice also ; 
beat the sugar and butter to a cream, and add the yolks, 
well beaten ; then add the lemon peel and flour, and a 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water ; beat 
it well, and just before putting it into the oven add the 
lemon juice, beatin<:f it in verv thoroutddy. Ice thickly. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. Cmnuels, Ottawa. 

To be used with golden cake. One ])ound of sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour, six 



400 



The Canadian Economist. 



ounces of butter, mace and citron, whites of fourteen eggs 
beat the sugar and butter to a cream, add the whites cut 
to a stiff' froth and then the tlour. 

<J()LD CAKK. 

Mrf<. (Rev.) M. Campbell, Renfrew. 

One cupful of sugar, three-quarters of a cupful of butter, 
two cupsful of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder 
mixed dry in Hour, half a cupful of sweet milk, essence of 
lemon. 

SILVKR CAKi:. 

Mis. (Rev.) M. Campbell, Renfrew. 

Two cupsful fine white sugar, two and a half cujtsfui 
of flour, three-quarters of a cu])ful of sweet milk, two 
teaspoonsful of baking- powder mixed dry in flour, wliites 
of eight eggs ; stir butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
whites, then the Hour, lastly milk and lemon. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Devxir. 

One and a (piarter poimds of butter, one and a quarter 
pounds of flour, ten ^^^^l,^^, whites of three taken out; add 
three more yolks, three pounds of currants, three pounds 
of raising, one and a quarter pound of citron, one table- 
spoonful of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of mace, two nut- 
megs, one gill of molasses. Bake five hours. 

ALABAMA CAKE. 

Mrs. Donaldson, 

One pound of sugar, one pound of Hour, half a pounil 
of butter, half a pint of milk, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, flavour to tpste ; beat the whites and yolks sepa- 
rately, mix in the sugar, milk and butter, putting in the 
tioar iHst. 



Wed^Uny Cake. 407 

SPONCJE CAKE. 

Mrs. Jamef* Dahjlimh. 

Four eggs, two cup.sful of sugar, ono and a lialf cupsful 
of flour, half a cupful of warm water, }ialf a teaspoonful 
of Cook's friend. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mvtt. Jairu'H DahjUcsh, 

One cupful of white sugar, half a ctipful of milk, scant 
half a cupful of butter, one cupful and a half of flour, a 
teaspoonful of baking powder, whites of three eggs ; beat 
su<;ar and butter together, put in whites of eggs well 
beaten. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. James Dabj/h'sh. 

Four cu})sful of flour, three cupsfuls of sugar, one cup- 
ful of butter, one pint of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. 

A NICE FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Bovnely, Ironsides. 

Half a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, one pound 
of raisins, one pound of currants, half a pound of sugar, 
spices to taste, six eggs, yolks and whites beaten separatel}-. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Mrs TJios. Drinnmond, Kingston. 

Two pounds of flour (pastry), two pounds of brown 
sugar, two pounds of butter, two pounds of currants, four 
pounds of raisins, three pounds of mixed peel, one coflfee- 
eupful of molasses, one pound of almonds, blanched and 
sliced lengthways ; two dozen of eggs, two ounces of 



408 



The Canadian Kconomist. 



mixed spices ; mix sugar and butter together with liand, 
then break and drop in e^gs, then the s[)ico and then the 
molasses, then fruit and flour alternately, and after all is 
in, put in more flour. Sometimes it requires another 
pound according to the size of eggs and quantity of flour, 
the person who mixes has to judge. Paper and butter woll 
the pans you put it in ; to bake it is best done in a bakcn's 
oven. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mr^. Tho8. iJrunimond, Kingston. 

One package of corn starch, one pound of white cruslnfil 
sugar, three-(|uarters of a pound of butter, ten eggs, ouv. 
teas]K)onful of cream of tartar, half-a-teas])oonful of so(l;i, 
flavouring to taste. First beat the butter and sugar to ji 
cream, then add yolks, Avell li)eaten, next starch and wliitdi 
alternately. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Aliss Durie, Ottaiva. 

One poun<l of crusherl sugar ; bieak yolks of eight ('g<,'s 
on sugar. Beat very light, then add the juice of one 
lemon, whites of eggs beaten to a very stifl' froth, half a 
pound of sifted flour, with one teaspoonful of baking ])()\v- 
der, well mixed through the flour. Bake about half an 
liour. 

DOLLY VARDEN CAKE. 



Two 
butter. 



Mrs. Dry.sdale, Ottawa. 

cupsful of white sugar, two-thirds of a cupful of 
three cupsful of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of ci*eam of tartar, half an 
ounce of soda. Take half of this mixture, and add to it 
one cupful of raisins, chopped fine, one cupful of currants, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
one teaspoonful of nutmeg. Bake each mixture in two 



Marble Caks. 



409 



shallow pans, when done put together alternately with a 
little jelly. 

SCOTCH shortbre;ad. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, (piarter of a 
})()uud of poiuided loaf sugar, a few strips of candied lemon 
])eel ; beat the butter to a cream, dredge in the flour, and 
add the sugar, work the paste till it is (juite smooth, and 
divide it into six })ieces. Put each cake on a separate 
piece of paper, and roll them out scjuare to tlie thickness 
of about an inch, ])inch it all round, ornament with a f(!W 
strii)s of pe(d, and bake in a good oven. 

JELLY SANDWICir. 

Mi.Hs Rarhara Grie[f, South Georgetown. 

One cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, two talde- 
sj)oonsful of milk, two tablespoonsful of melted butter, 
tliivo eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half 
toaspoonful of soda. Flavour with lemon. 

CREAM CAKE. 

iVr.s. ./. M. Garhind. 

Eeat two eggs in a cup, fill the cup with cr(?am ; one 
cupful of white sugai', one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. li. Fra-'^cr, Westmeath. 

White part — Whites of four eggvs, one cupful of white 
sugar, a small cupful of butter, one cu})ful of sweet milk, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of 
^oda, flavour to taste, with lemon. Brown j3art — Yolks 



410 



The Canadian Economist. 



of four oggs, one cupful of brown sugar, one cupful ul" 
sweet milk, a small cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda, nutmeg, cloves, four cupsful of flour. 

COCUA CAKE. 

Mist^ Ilopkirk, Otfaiuff. 

One cuj>ful of sugar, one cupful and a half of butter, 
one cupful and a half of floui-, one eg<f and a half, two 
t<5as})Oonsful and a half of the Cook's Friend, on(; cupful 
of milk, tiavour to taste ; four tablespoonsful of cocoh, 
boiled in one tablespoonful of milk, whites of three cfjgs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, sugar and a little corn starch to 
stiffen. Add the cocoa, beat all together. Covei- each 
cake with a layer and sprinkle a little dry over each. 
Frost the top. 

ORAN(JK VAKE (l)ELlClOUS.) 

Miss Harmon, Ottawa. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, one pound 
of flour, one cupful of sweet in.'ik, six eggs, two spoonsful 
of baking-powder, one orange. Frosting — To the white ot 
three eggs add twenty-four teaspoonsful of pulverized 
sugar, and the grated rind and half the juice of thc^ orHii;j;e. 
Bake cake in layers and put the frosting between each 
layei". This will make enough filling for one loaf of cakf 

OKANC.K TAKE. 

Mrs. W. Hutchinson, Ottawa. 

Three cupsful of Hour, two cupsful of sugar, half a cup- 
ful of water that has been boiled and cooled. Five eggs, 
whites of four, yolk.*' of five, beaten separately, grateil 
rind and juice of one orange, half a teasj)oonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Bake in jelly tins. 
Icing for centre. — Beat the white of two eggs to a stiff 
froth, stir in sugar enough to make a stiff icing witli tln' 
grated rind and juice of the orange. 



Sjxmge Cake. 



411 



NEW year's pound CAKE. 

Mrs. G. W. Iliitrhirtmv. 

One pound of })uttcT, one of su^jmi-, oiki dozen o<;gs, lialf 
!i pound of mixed peel, lialf apound of blanchcfl almonds, 
(iiu'|»ound and a (piarter of Hour, two spoonsful of hakinjjj- 

[lowilcr. 

NKW YKAI{S FRL'IT CAKT. 

Ml'i^. (i. ir. 1/ iifrli'nison. 

On-. und of iMittcr, one pound of sugar, twelve e^ros, 
o*' "I 1 an<l n half of Hower, two tablespoonsful of 
baK.. ()owder, two potnids of I'aisins, two ])Ounds of cur- 
rants, half a pound of l»lanche<l almonds, half a pound of 
mixed peel, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, a little ground 
inner, one glassful of sweet cider. 

JKI.I.V CAKK. 

Mt'K. G. W . Ifiifchiiison. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one cu[)ful of sugai-, four 
tables])oonsful of milk, two teaspoonsful of baking-pow- 
(k'V, three eggs, one large cupful of flour. Butter round 
tins, and bake in a <|uiek oven. When cool put jelly be- 
tween the layers. 

CORN STARCH CAKK. 

Miss M. M. Hiifchhison. 

One cupful of sugai', half a cupful of butter, half a cup- 
ful of sweet milk, one cupful of Hour, half a cupful of 
corn-starch, two teaspoonsful of baking-powder, the whites 
of four egii's, beaten to a stiff froth. Mi.\' in the eijgs last. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss M. M. Htitckhison. 

One pound of white sugar, good half pound of tlour, and 
nine eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Beat the 



412 



The Canadian Econcmiiat. 



volks \\\f\\i, then a<ld tlie HUj^ar. Mix all together, do not 
beat after mixing in the Hour. Bake in pans papered and 
well buttered. 

FIG CAKE, 

Mrs. W. Hatch iniion, Ottawa. 

Three eggs, half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of 
milk, on(^ cupful and a half of sugar, two cupsful and a 
hajf of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two cupsful of ci cam 
of tartar. Beat butter and sugar together. Have a lay* r 
of figs cho])p(Ml fine, and put l)etween the layers the saint! 
as jelly. 

EXCKLl.KNT CUP <'AKK. 

M IS. W. II titchlnson, Ottaira. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, three cups- 
ful of Hour, four eggs, one cupful of milk, one teas])0()iiful 
of soda, two of cream of tartar or three of baking powder. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Mrs. G. S. Hobart, K'nigiitoii, 

Take three eggs and whip separately, one coffeecupfu 
of sugar, same of flour, to which add two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, moisten with a little milk. This makes 
enough for three shallow pans' ttlling. Grate an apple, 
which sweeten and flavour, then sjDread between tlic 
layers. 

SPONUE CAKE. 

Mrs. Johnstone. 

Two cupsful of sifted flour, two of powdered sugai' 
four well-beaten eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately 
half a teacupful of cold water, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar sifted in the flour, two teaspoonsful of baking 
powder; flavour with the juice and grated rind of half a 
lemon, and bake twenty minutes in shallow tins. 



A Much Admired Cucoa-nid Cal-e. 



413 



SPONCJE TAKE. 

MwR Junor, St. Murys*. 



One .small cupful of siftod Hour, one the .same size of 
supir, an even tea.spoonful of l»akin<^ })()W(ler; mix all to- 
getlicr and add the l)eaten yolks and whites of three 



egg^- 



}'KAC'H CAKK. 

Miss J una I', St. Marijs. 

Bake three layers of sponge cake, cut ripe peaches in 
thin slices, prepare .some sweet whipped cream and flavour 
it, spread the peaches with the cream, pound over between 
eacli layer, as also over the top of the cake. 

LADY FINCJEHS. 

Mrs. Johnstone. 

In one pound of powdered su<^'ar break eleven eggs, and 
l)eat together until veiy light, then add one pound of 
'iiftt'd tlour, stirring in very lightly ; butter some sheets 
of })aper, put the butter through a pipe made for the pur- 
pose (or a paper funnel) on to the paper in cakes three 
inclies long and very narrow ; sift some powdered sugar 
over the top, and bake in rather a quick oven ; when cold 
remove them from the paper by wetting the back of the 
paper with cold water. 

A MUCH ADMIRED CO(JOA-NUT CAKK. 

Mrs. W.Kennedy, Given Sound. 

Foui* eggs, two cupsful of sugar, two cupsful of flour, 
a little .salt ; mix altogether. Then add two teaspoonsful 
uf ))aking powder, then pour in three-quarters of a cup- 
ful of boilinj^ water last, and mix ; needs three or four 
jelly-cake tins to bake. While they are baking, mix for 



414 



The Canadv 111 Economist. 



icing the white of one egg nin] onongh sugar to make 
stiff, and spread over the cakes, and sprinkle cocoa-nut on 
each layci" of cake. 

CORX-S'IAHCII ("AKE. 

il//«.s Les/'n\ Kinystoi). 

Three-quarters of a ])Ound of hutter, three-quarters;,/ 
a pound of sug.r, eight eggs, one j)ackage of corn-starcli, 
half a cupful of fine flour, in which has been well mixed 
three teaspoonsful of hnking powdei- (( ook's Friend). Be;it 
the butter and sugar to a cream. First add the volks, 
well beaten, then the starch, last tlu' whites, beaten to a 
stiff frotli. 

.JKI.l.V CAKi:. 

il/i«.s Sarah LanaJiau, Ollau'ff. 

One teacupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, two 
eggs, half a teacupful of milk, two teacupsf ul of flour, oiif 
and a half teaspoonful of baking powder ; bake in three 
jelly -cake tins. When cold, spread thin layers of jelly or 
jam between. 

LEMOX-IELLY (AKE. 

Mrs. E. W. Low, Kuignton. 

One lemon, grated, one cupful of brown sugar, one ej^^', 
one apple, grated ; mix all together and boil fi\'e minutes, 
and put it on the cake while hot. Ice top of it or not. as you 
please. To make the cake : — Take half a pound of sifted 
white sugar, six ounces of butter, eight eggs (whites beat to 
a stiff froth, yolks beat and strained), juice and grated rind 
of one lemon, one pound of dried and sifted Hour. Work 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add ^he eggs, then the 
flour, and then the lemon-juice. Butter tin and scalloped 
pans, and put in this ( quarter of an inch thick. Bake a 
light brown, and pile them in layers with the jelly 
between. 



Zemon Cake. 



415 



I(!E CREAM TAKE. 

Misfi McK'tnnon. 

Tlie whites of eight eggs, two eupsf ul of sugar, two cups- 
ful of sifted Hour, one cupful of corn starch, one cupful of 
butter, one cupful of milk, two teaspoonsful of haking pow- 
der, tlavour with lemon. Bake in tbin layers and add the 
following preparation between the cakes: The whites of 
four eggs, four cupsfulof sugar ; pour boiling water over the 
sugar, boil hard until clear and candied ; pour the boiling 
hot sugar over the eggs, stirring until a rich cream ; var 
ilia liavouring. When cold spread the icing between the 
cakes. 

i.i(;uT si'0N(;k cake. 

il//.s\s A. McLaren, Portufje Da Fort. 



Si.K eggs, the weight of the eggs in white sugar, half 
theii" weiirht in Hour ; Havour with lemon. Beat the e«firs 
separately for half an liour ; add sugar with yolks, and 
lastly the whites ; bake half an hour. With tlrj addition 
iif icing it is famous. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Miss MeTiujgait, Neiv Ediulnwi/h. 

Three eggs, one cupful of Hour, one cupful of siigai', one 
tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk, one 
teaspoonfui of baking powder. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Miss Mt-Qtuo-rie. 

Tliiee cupsful of powdered white sugar, one cupful of 
Ijiitter, one cupful of milk, five eggs, four cupsful of Hour; 
l»eat the butter and sugar to a cream ; beat the eggs pepar- 
ately ; the \fl\ites to a stiff froth ; then dissolve a little 
"ioda in the milk ; mix all together, th<;i siit the flour, and 



410 



r/te Canadian Economist. 



stir in by degrees ; add the juice and grated rind of a le- 
mon. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKK. 

Mrs. W. B. McArthiir, Carh'ton Place. 

A cupful of brown sugar, one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful of molasses, one cupful of milk, three cupsful of Hour. 
four eggs, one-half teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one pound of raisins, chopped tine, 
one pound of currants, Blake in a slow oven. . 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. ir. B. Mc Arthur, Carleton Place. 

Seven eggs, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of flour, two nourids of currants, two pounds 
of raisins, half-pound of lemon peel, two tablespoonf uls of 
baking powder, half a cupful of milk ; flavouiing. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

M'lss McTaulsh, Osgoode. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
flour, two pounds of currants, one pound and a half of 
raisins, ten eggs, one-([uarter of a pound of lemon peel, 
one nutmeg, three parts of a cup of mola.sses. Bake foiiv 
hours in a moderate oven. 

LADY CAKE. 

Miss McTavish, Osyoode. 

Beat to a stift' froth eight eggs, then add one spoonful 
at a time, one pound of powdered loaf sugar, beat to a 
crean? one-qaarter of a pound of butter and add to it one 
teacupful of sweet milk and a teaspoonful o^ soda. Stir 
the eggs in the milk and butter and sift in enough flour 
to make a batter, as thick as a pound-cake. It will ro- 



I 



Straivhevrij Short Cake. 



417 



1 of a le- 



, one cup- 
il of tlour. 
artar, one 
pped tine. 



1 of sugar, 
vo pounds 
poonf Ills of 



•i»g- 



pound of 

a half of 

Mioii peel, 

Bake four 



spoonful 

"I beat to a 

to it one 

)da. Stir 

)Ugh ttoiir 

will re- 



quire half an hour to bake in a quick oven. When nearly 
cold ice on the under side. When the icing becomes firm 
mark in small S(juares. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss McNaclitan, Cohoarg. 

* Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful of sweet 
inilk, two cupsful of Hour, three teaspoonsful of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful of liavouiiiig. 

YELLOW LILY CAKE. 

Miss McTavlsh, Osijoode. 

The yolks of six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, three cups- 
ful of tlour, half a cupful of sweet milk, three-quarters of 
a cupful of butter, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, 
and one of soda. 

bURPHISE ^'AKE. 

Miss McTar'ish, Osgoode. 

• 
One egg, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, 

one cupful of sweet ndlk, one teaspoonful of soda, two 

teaspoonsful of cream of tartar. Flavour with lemon 

and use sufficient sifted Hour to make an ordinary stiff 

batter. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE 

Miss Baxter McEiven, IngersolL 

One quart of Hour, five teaspoonsful of baking powder. 
Mix the powder well in the Hour, with a little salt and 
two tablespoonsful of sour cream if you have it, if not 
one tablespoonful of butter. Mix with sweet milk. Mix 
as soft as you can, roll out and cut. When baked split 
and butter, have the strawberries or any other fruit 
bruised with sugar and lay in between. 

27 



418 



The Canadian Econom 



SUGAR CAKE. 

Mhs McTavwh, Osgoode. 

Seven eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately, then 
beat theiii well together, add one pound of sifted white 
sugar, half a pound of melted butter and a teaspoont'ul of 
pulverized ananonia. 

SPONGE CAKK. * 

Mm. {Rev.) J. McEwev, Ivf/erscU. 

Ten eggs, oiie])ound of white sugar, one ounce of tlour. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, about tucjitv 
minutes, then gradually stir in the tlour and the whites 
of the eggs, 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

Mm. T. M. McVei<j/t, Br y son. 

One pound of currants, one pound of raisins, on<' cup- 
ful of butter, beaten to acieani, one huge cupful of biown 
sugar, one cupful of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two of cream of tavtar. Essence of cinnamon, lemon, 
01 nutmeg. Sufficient flour to make a thick batter. 

, (iOLDEN CAKE. 

Miss McHae, Renfrew. 

Take the yolks of four eggs, two cupsful of sugar, one 
half-cupful of cream, one h-dt-cupful butter ; mix well to- 
gether, and add three cu])sful of tlour with one teasjiooii- 
fulof so<la and two of cream of tartar. jMix some cuiianb 
and cition peel, tlour and bake in a slow oven. 

SILVER cakp:. 

Mis8 McRae, Renfreiv. 

Take the white of four eggs, one half-cupful of butter, 
one half-cupful of cream, two cupsful of sugar ; mix well 



:•-■>:.. sK::t.,>..^, 



Royal Fruit Cahe. 



419 



t()L;other, flavour and then mix in two cupsful of flour, 
with two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, and half a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Bake in a moderate oven. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mi88 McRae, Renfrew. 

Take four cnpsful offlour, three cupsful of wlilte sugai', 
()i)e('U})lulof cold water, six eggs, one lemon, two teaspoons- 
ful of cream of tartar, and one of soda. First beat the 
t'l^gs two minutes, then put in the sugar and beat five 
minutes more, then stir in the cream of tartar and two 
cupsful of flour, and beat one minute. Now dissolve the 
•soila in the water and stir in, having grated in the rind 
of the lemon. S([ueeze in half the juice and add the other 
two cupsful of flour and beat all one minute, then [)ut 
into deep pans and bake in a modei-ate oven. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Miss McRaa, Revfrew. 

Beat the yolks of six oggs, and a cu))ful of sugar. Whip 
tlic whites to a siiff froth, atld to the rest and then stir in 
one cupful of flour, with two teaspoonsful of cream of tar- 
tar, and hfdf a teaspoonful of soda. Flavour witli lemon, 
and bake in a quick oven. Have ready the whites of two 
eggs well beaten. Ice your cakes and cover with cocoa- 
nut. 

ROYAL FRUIT CAKE. 

MvH. Thonui)^ McKay. 

Five cupsful of flour, five eggs, one and a half cupsful of 
sugar, one cupful of molasses, one and a half cupsful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one half a cupful of 
milk, two pounds of chopped raisins, three pounds of 
cuirants, one and one half pound of citron, two tea- 
spoonsful of cinnamon, one nutmeg, two tablespoonsful 
of cloves. This is a splendid receipt. 



420 



The Canadian Economist 



LADY CAKE. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

The ingredients are : the whites of sixteen eggs, half 
a pound of fresh butter, three-quarters of a poUnd of 
sifted flour, one pound of powdered white sugar, two 
ounces of bitter ahnonds, and three wineghissfuls of rose- 
water. Blanch two full ounces of bitter almonds, tlien 
throw into a bowl of cold water and let them be awhile ; 
afterward take them out, wipe them in a clean cloth and 
pound them one at a time in a mortar, pouring on each 
of them a little rosewater, when sufficiently done, set 
them in a cool place. It is best to prepare them the day 
before you make up your cake, and put plenty of rose- 
water with them. Having powdered your sugar, put it 
into a deep pan ; cut your butter into it, and set it where 
it will soon get warm; then stir the butter and sugar to- 
gether, until they become quite light, and then add the 
pounded almonds, stirring in a little at a time ; beat the 
whole together, and set it in a cool place, while you are 
sifting your flour and beating the whites of sixteen eggs. 
It is most convenient to divide the eggs, putting eight 
whites, each in two separate pans. Beat the whites until 
they stand alone, and then stir them haid into the pan 
containing the butter, sugar, and almonds, alternately 
with the flour. When all the ingredients are mixed in, 
stir the whole very hard ; have ready a tin pan well but- 
tered, put in the mixture and set it immediately into the 
oven. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Ingredients : Two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, 
a (quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, half an ounce 
of cairaway seeds, one ounce of sweet almonds and a few 
stri|)s of candied orange peel. Beat the butter to a cream, 
gradually dredge in the flour, and add the sugar, carra- 



Corn Starch Cake, 



421 



way seeds and sweet almonds, which should be blanched 
and cut into small pieces ; work the paste until it is quite 
smooth, and divide it into six pieces. Put each cake on a 
separate piece of paper, roll the paste out square, to the 
thickness of about an inch, and pinch it on all sides. 
Prick it well, and ornament it with one or two strips of 
candied orange peel ; put the cakes into a good oven, and 
bake them from twenty-tive to thirty minutes. 

PLUM CAKE, 

Mrs. Thomas McKai/. 

(Jne pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, quar- 
ter of H pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of currants, 
two ounces of candied lemon peel, half a pint of milk, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Put the flour into a basin 
with the sugar, currants and sliced candied peel ; beat the 
butter to a cream and mix all the ingredients together 
with the milk ; beat the whole well until everything is 
thoroughly mixed ; put the dough into a buttered tin and 
bake the cake from one and a half to two hours. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Mutchmore, Ottawa, Kansas. 

Three and a quarter cupsful of butter, two cupsful of 
sugar, three eggs and the whites of six, one cupful of 
sweet milk, four cupsful of sifted flour, three teaspoonsful 
of baking powder ; flavour with lemon, or to taste. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Perley, Ottaiva. 

Eight ounces of butter beaten to a cream, ten ounces o^ 
white sugar added and beaten, six eggs broken and stirred 
in one at a time, one package of corn starch and a heaping 
teaspoonful of Cook's Friend, flavour to taste and bake 
one hour. 



422 The Canadian Economist. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Perley, Ottaiua. 

Ten eggs, ten ounces of flour, one pound of sugar, tho 
juice and grated rind of lemon, very nice and will keep 
as long Jis pound cake. 

MRS. Owen's cake. 

Mrs. Parr, Ottawa. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, four eggs> 
one cupful of warm water, four cupsful of flour, four tea- 
spoonsful of Cook's Friend. 

SNOWBALL CAKE. 

Mrx. Rove, Winniparj. 

One cupful of sugar, one-lialf cupful of l)utter, one-half 
cupful of sweet milk, two cupsful of flour, the whites of 
three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspooufih 
of cream of taitar sifted wiv-h the flour ; beat the butter 
and sugar together, add the whites of eggs beaten to a 
thick foam, then the flour. Essence of lemon to flavour. 

COKN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Roiue, Winnipeg. 

Three and one-quarter pounds of butter, the same of 
sugar, eight eggs, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar. . 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Rowe, Winnipeg. 

The weight of six eggs of sugar, and the weight of four 
of flour, a little salt and six tggs, and flavour to taste. 
J3eat the whites and yolks separately. Beat the whites 



Fruit Cake. 



423 



and sugar togetlier first, then put in the yolks and the 
Hour last. Never beat much after the Hour is a<l<le<l. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

M'lfif^ Rohe)'Uo)i^ Thorold, 

Three e^rgs vv^ell beaten, one cupful of white sugar, one 
c'u[)ful of Hoiir, two tablespoDusful of water, three tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder. Bake in a (piick oven. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Mim Robertson, TItorold. 

Four eggs, one cu))ful of sugar, one cupful of flour, two 
talilespoonsful of cold water, one tablespoonful of baking 
soda and two of cream of tartar. 

JKLLY CAKE. 

3Irs. Ray, Ottaiva. 

One teacupful of sugar, one-half teacupful of butter 
l)eaten to a cream, one coffeecu])ful of flour, four eggs 
Kcaten separatelj', one teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Bake in jelly tins. 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. Ray, OttaAva. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, ten ounces of 
butter, ten eggs, beaten separately ; a little nutmeg, no 
soda. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottaiva. 

One poun<l of butter, one poimd of sugar, beaten to a 
cream, one pound of flour, twelve eggs, beaten separately; 
two pounclj of currants, tw(j ounces of raisins, half-pound 



424 



The Canadian Economist 



of citron, half-pound of almonds, two nutmegs, two tea- 
spoonsful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, two 
tablespoonsful of sugar. 

RAILROAD f'AKK. 

Mlf^s LiJlie J{()S}<, Kivf/f<fov. 

One cupful of sugar, two tahlesjKxmsful of Imtter, l)oat 
together; two tablespoonsful of milk, three eggs, beat to- 
gether ; one cupful of Hour, with two heaping teaspooiis- 
ful of baking powder. Mix and flavour. Use a little 
salt. 

.lELI.Y CAKE. 

Miss LUlie Rosfi, I{}n(/f<ton. 

Break two eggs in a cup and fill the cup with cream, 
one cupful of sugar, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, 
and one teaspoonful of soda, mixed in a little water, one 
cupful of flour. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Miss LiUie Ross, Kivgstoii. 

Half a pound of butter and sugar, one pound of raisins 
and currants, one-quarter of a pound of citron and lemon- 
peel, one teaspoonful of cloves, cinnamon, allspice and 
nutmeg, five eggs, half a pound of floui', two teaspoonsful 
of baking j)owder. Mix the butter and sugar to a cream 
with the hand. Break in the eggs one by one, then add 
the fruit, spices and flour. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Rc8?, Kingston, 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, thrreeggs, 
half a cupful of sweet milk, one pound and a-half of flour, 
three teaspoonsful of baking powder. Flavour as you 
please. Bake in a quick oven. 



Pound Cake. 425 

CITUON CAKE. 

Miss Lillie lioss, Kingston. 

Haifa pound of butter and sufj^ar, five e^^s, a quarter 
of a pound of eitron-peel, tliree-ipiarters of a pound of 
Hour. 

CHOCOLATK CAKK. 

Mrs. Smith. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, six eggs, 
one cupful of milk, three teaspoonsful of C'ook's b'riend, 
one pound of Hour, Bake in jelly cake tins. Mixture for 
tilling : Whites of three eggs, one and a half cup of pulver- 
i/x'd sugar, three tablespoonsful of grated cocoa, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla ; beat well together, spread between 
the layers and on top of cake. 

MOLASSES fAKE. 

Mrs. Smith. 

Two cupsful of molasses, two small teaspoonsful of soda ; 
stir into the molasses, until it is thick and foaming, one 
(luart of flour, one and a half cupful of warm water in 
which half a cupful of butter has dissolved, then add one 
teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of cloves, two tea- 
spoonsful of cinnamon, and two teaspoonsful of ginger. 
Tse paper in the pans and bake ' three cakes. 

rOUND CAKE. 

Mrs. J. K. Steivart. 

One pound of flour, eight eggs, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of butter, one pound of currants, one pound of rai- 
sins, (piarter of a pound of almonds, four pieces of lemon 
peel half a cupful of molasses, two tablespoonsful of 
mixed spice, three spoonsful of baking powder. 














'^■ 




V 



IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 



I 



1.0 



1144 IIIJM IM 



12.2 



I.I 



■ 4 



1.25 



1.4 



2.0 



1.6 



Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 




/ 



o 





<£»., 






4?r 




ma 



^A 



4. 



^Nj 




\ 



iV 



iv 



%^ 









6^ 



^ 



%^ 



'ij)" 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14SS0 

(716) 872-4503 



<i> 







6^ 



426 



The Canadian Economist. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Mvi^. A. Scott, Ottaiva. 

Half a pound of butter, half a pound of suj^'ar, one 
■pound of raisins, one pound of cun-ants, half a pound of 
flour, two ounces of lemon peel, six eggs, spice to taste. 

SHORT RREAD. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

One pound of fl(jur, quarter of a pound of sugar, half a 
pound of butter. Rub all well together, and roll out in 
cakes. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottaiva. 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of Hour, six eggs. 
Beat up eggs well, add sugar and flour. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Two cupsful of sugar, two cupfuls of Hour, five yolks 
of eggs, one and a half teasj)oonsful of baking powder, 
half a teacupful of water, boiled and cold, one orange 
grated, rind and juice, — f nesting for same, white of one 
egg, one orange grated, rind and juice, ground sugar. 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugai, four eggs, 
three cupsful of Hour, one cupful of milk, four teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder (Cook's Friend). Mix butter and 
sugar, add yolks of eggs well beaten, then the whites well 
beaten, then milk, mix baking powder with flour sifted, 
CUKrants if required. 



Fruit Cake. 



427 



ROLLED JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs Sletvart, New York. 

To tliree well beaten eggs, add one cupful of powdered 
mifjar, one cupful of Hour, stir well and add one teaspoon- 
ful (»f creaui of tartar, half a teaspoonful of saleratus 
ilissolved in three teaspoonsful of water. Bake in two 
shallow pans. Spread as even as possible, have ready a 
i^reased paper, and as soon as done turn the cake on it, 
liottom side up, then spread evenly with jttly. Roll up 
quickly, and leave the paper round it until cool. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. SiHith, Bryson. 

One cupful of white sugar, one cupful of flour, three 
t'ggs, half a teasp onful of soda, a teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar dissolved in four teaspoonsful of cream, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon. Mix them together, and bake in jelly- 
tins, in a quick oven. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 

M'l^s Thompson, Renfrew. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, three ounces 
of white sugar; mix well the flour and sugar, which you 
must gi'adually and thoroughly work into the butter ; 
when you have worked it smooth, roll out and pinch 
luund the edges. Put some carraway comfits on the top. 
Bake in a very slow oven. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

M'iKS Thomson, Renfreiu. 

Five eggs, five cupsful of flour, two and a half cupsful 
i)f sugar, one and a half (;upsful of butter and two cups- 
ful of sour milk, two cupsful of raisins; beat butter and 
I sugar to a cream, add the eggs, yolks and whites beaten 



428 



The Canadian Economist. 



separately; then three cupsful of the flonr an*, the inilk; 
beat well, and then add one gill of molasses cloves and 
cinnamon to suit your taste, and the remainder of the 
flour ; and last, one teaspoonful of soda. Bake as soon 
as put together. 

BOLL JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

Take four egga and a cupful of sugar and beat well ; 
then add a c#f)f ul of tlour, a teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, half a teaspoonful of soda, llavour with lemon, and 
bake in a quick oven. Spread with jelly and eat as soon 
as taken from the oven. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 

Mrs. Jaracfi Thomson. 

Four pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, one pound 
of sugar, one pound of ground rice, lemon peel to suit 
taste. 

LARGE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, and eight 
eggs. Beat the whites antl yolks separately. 

ROLLED SANDWICH. 

Mrs. James Thompson. 

Quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of 
flour, four eggs and a little soda. 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

H .If a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, ten 
ounces of flour, six eggs and a little soda. 



Lemon Cake. 429 

FRUIT CAKK (GOOD). 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, ten eggs, one 
and a quarter pounds of flour, one pound and two ounces 
of raisins, one pound and two ounces of currants, one and 
a half ounces of peel, half an ounce of peel, half an 
ounce of nutmeg, one teaspoouful of mixed spices. 

ICED SANDWICH. ^ 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, ton eggs, one 
and a quarter pounds of flour. 

PRINCESS CAKE. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, ten eggs, one 
and a quarter pounds of flour, half a pound of large 
laisins or lemon peel instead. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Miss Urquhart, Perth. 

Grate the rind of one large or two small lemons, squeeze 
the juice and add one cu[»ful of sugar, and one Gg^, well 
lieaten, also a small juece of butter. Boil until pretty 
thick, and set away to cool. For the cake, take three 
eggs, beat very lightly, add one cu])ful of sugar, one and 
a half cupsful of flour, with two teaspoonsful of cream 
of tartar and one ounce of soda rubbed in, half a cupful 
of milk. Bake in well-buttered jelly- cake tins. When 
the lemon mixture and the cakes are quite cold, spread 
the lemon between the layers of cake. For icing for the 
top, take the white of one egg, beat very lightly, mix in 
•no cupful of sugar, and flavour with lemon and beat 



430 



The Canadian Economiat 



until smooth. Oranges in.^tead of lemons may ha used 



and an orange cake made 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. {Rev. D.) Wardvopc, Teesivuter. 

Three-qartors of a pound of buttei', one pound of wliito 
sugar, sixteen eggs, tliree pounds of currants, waslicd anil 
dried, half a pound of citron peel, one and a half poiiiids 
of flour, two nutmegs, a teas])0{)nful of soda bruised, work 
the butter to a cream, then juld the sugar. Work tliesc 
together till very light. This is the haidesv part of the 
mixing. Then add the eggs, two at a time, it is not ne- 
cessary to beat them. Have the Hour, fruit, s})ice,etc., 
all mixed together dry in another vessel, and add by de- 
grees to the mixture. Bake in a slow oven. 

OHANIJI-: CAKH. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Four eggs, save out whites of two, one and a half ciips- 
ful of sugar, half a cupful of watei', one and a half ciiiis- 
ful of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powdei', Havour 
to taste. For fillin<; the same, beat the whites of e^'i^s to 
a stiff froth, add juice and grated rind of one oraii(];t.', 
three tablespocmsful of powdered sugar, mix all together, 
and spread between the layers. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One pound of Hour, half a pound of butter, quarter of 
a pound of sugar, yolk of one agg; place the Hour in a 
bowl, add the butter and sugar, mix well, add the ej.'g, 
mix firmly ; fold a paper square and place the dough on 
it; roll it lightly to have it square, half an inch thick; 
prick it over with a fork and press it with fingers lound 
the edge, place it on a baking tin ; bake in a ({uick oveu 
fifteen minutes. 



Seed Cake. 



431 



FRUIT CAKE. 



2f}'s. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One pound of sui^ar, tliieo-quarters of a pound of but- 
ter, eight eggs, one pound of flour, one pound of raisins, 
one j»ound of currants, two nutmegs. 

CUP CAKE. 



^frs. Whiihcii-, OftaiOa. 



Tl 



sful of i\( 



twi 



id a half cui^sful of h 



irec cupstui ot tiour, two ana a naii cupsiui ot brown 
sugar, half a cupful of butter, three eggs, one and a half 
ciipsful of milk, two and a half teaspoonsful of baking 
|towder, half a nutmeg. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaadiere. 

Half a ])ound of sugar, six ounces of butter, five eggs, 
one pound of Hour, flavour, bake in three tins. 

CHEAP FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. WillUuns, ClidnUere. 

One cupful of brown sugar, half a cupful of butter, 
half a cupful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
eggs, one cupful of fruit, spices. 

SEED CAKE. 

Mrs. James Young, Gtdt. 

One heaping cupful of sugar, two cupsful of Hour, three- 
quarters of a cupful of l)utter, and three eggs, beat sugar 
and butter together with yolks of eiiij^s, then a<ld the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, half a cupful of sweet milk, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of 
soda mixed with the flour. 



432 The Caibadian Economist. 

WHITE WKDDINO CAKE. 

Mrs. Williams, Chmuli'ere. 

One and a half cupsful of potato starch, two cupsful of 
sugar one cupful sweet cream, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, whites of eight eg«'8, 
one and a half cupsful of flour. 

RATAFIAS. 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, half a pound ot hitter 
almonds, two pounds of sugar, the whites of ten or twelve 
eggs. Mix as for almond cakes ; drop them on whited brown 
paper half the size of a nutmeg, see they are all of a size; 
bake on iron sheets in a slow oven. When cold they can 
be taken from the paper. 

NICE COOKIES. 

Mrs. AUoiuay, Winnipeg. 

Two eggfi, one cupful of melted butter, one ounce of 
sugar, a teaspoonful and a half of baking powder, and 
flour enough to make a dou^ch. Roll thin and bake 
quickly. 

COOKIES. 

Miss Sarah Lanah^n. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, one egg, flour 
enough to roll, flavour with nutmeg. Roll very thin. 
Cut with a round cutter. Bake in a quick oven. 

NUMBER ONE COOKIES. 

Mrs. Kennedy, Given Sound. 

One egg beaten, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, one ' 
cupful of butter melted, one cupful and a half of sugar; 
mix and add five cupsful of flour ; when mixed take half j 
the quantity of dough and then mix in carraway seeds, so I 



Cookies. 



433 



!Upsf\ll of 

of cream 
ight eggs, 



d ot hitter 

or twelve 

ited brown 

I of a size ; 

II thev can 



|e ounce of 
owd(3r, ami 
and bake 



|c egg", flour 
very thin. 



lowder, one 
of sugav; 
|rl take halt ' 
ty seeds, so ] 



that you have carravvay cookies and plain ; roll out very 
thin and cut with a round or fancy cutter, according to 

taste. 

RATAFIA COOKIES. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, quarter of a 
cupful of milk, two e^f^j^a well beaten, two cuptuls and a 
half of Hour with a teaspoonful and a half of baking- 
powder. Mi.x: together, roll out very thin, cut into small 
cakes, wet over the t )p with ratafia. Dust over a little 
white sugar and bake. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. H. Matlter. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupfu] 
iif sweet milk, two spoonsful of baking powder, just flour 
enough to roll. Rub butter and sugar into the dry flour, 
and then wet up. Spice to suit the taste. Be careful not 
to use too much flour ; more can easily be added if not 
stitt enough. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Mrs. (Rev. J.) McEwen, IngersolL 

Two coffeecupsful of molasses, two cupsful of butter 
one tablespoonful of soda, one cupful of sweet milk, one 
and a half cupsful of flour, half a teaspoonful of alum, 
half a cupful of boiling water, one spoonful of ginger. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs: McQuarrie. 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful and a half of 
[butter, mixed with the flour, five cupfuls of flour, a tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar mixed with the flour, a nut- 
Inieg and half a teaspoonful of soda. Wet with as small 
|a quantity of milk as possible. * 

28 



434 



2hc Canadlu)) Economiat. 



COOKIKS. 

Mrft. A. McKellar, Ottawa. 

I One cupful of thick »weot creasn, one cupful of siij^'ur, 
(piarter of a teaspoonful of soda, half a teaHpoonful of 
cream of tartar, a little salt, essence of lemon, carraways, 
Hour enough to roll out thin, half a cupful of sweet niilk, 
and half a cupful of butter will do if cream cannot begot. 

COOK IKS. 

Mrs, Purr, OttauM. 

One cupful of butter, two eupsful of sugar, four eggs, 
ne lai'ge teaspoonful of Cook's Fiiend. 



o 



COOK IKS. 

Mrs. Bay, Offav'a. 

One cotfeeeupful of sugar, one teacupful of butter, twn 
ep-gs, one tal)lespoonful of sour cream, small teaspoonful 
of soda. Flavour with lemon. 

COOK IKS. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Five eu[)sful of Hour, one cupful antl a half of sugar,] 
one cupful of butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of bakini; 
powder, half a cupful of water ; roll out thin and cut out. 

COOKIES. 

Mrtt. Thomimni , Point Fortune, Que. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful and two-tliirds of sugar, 
two eggs, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, the latter dissolved in a little inilk.l 
Season with a little mace or ground allspice. Flour j 
enough to allow of l)eing rolled out. Roll out thin aii(l| 
cut into thin cakes. Bake in a quick oven. 



Carravxiy G uiger- h rea d. 



4n.i 



. ot* swraw 

)OOTlful oi' 

arraways, 
^eet milk, 
n()tbe<'ot. 



four e''f;> 



ro 



COOKIES. 

Miss Hohevtson, Ottawa. 

One (iiiart of Hour, one cupful of lard, two eggs, one 
cupful of sugar, two teas]H)on.sful of baking ])owtlor and a 
little salt, dissolve the powder in acjuarter-cupful of sweet 
milk ; work all together and roll them. 

(^OOKIKS. 

Mrs. W. T<ff/toi'. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful 
of sweet milk, half a teaspoonful of soda. Mix to a soft 
Roll thin and bake ([uickly. 



(lough 



butter, twn 

teaspoonful 



If of siij^av, 
|l of bakin;:] 
md cut out, 



l-ds of ^ugavJ 
ir, one tea-I 
llittle nii'l^l 
lice. Vlouii 
It thill an(l| 



COOKIES. 

Mr8. (Hec.) D. Wardrope, Teesu'at'r. 

A small cupful of butter, one large cupful of white sugar, 
one small cu})ful of sweet milk, two eggs, three teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder, and flour sufficient to make a soft 
(lough. Put butter into Hour, then add sugar, then the 
eggs well beaten, then the milk. Put baking powder in 
the dry tiour before beginning to mix. 

r'ARRAWAY gtx(;er-bread. 
iViss Elliott, Guelph. 

Cut up half a pound of fresh butter in a pint of treacle, 
and warm them together slightly, till the bu<.ler is quite 
soft. Then stir them well and add gradually half a 
pound of good brown sugar, a tablespoonful of powdered 
cinnamon, and two tablespoonsful of ground ginger, or 
three if the ginger is not very strong. Sift two pounds 
01* two quarts of flour. Beat four eggs till very thick and 
light, and stir them gradually into the mixtui-e, in turn 
[with the flour, and five or six large tablespcjonsful of 



436 



TJie Canadian Economist. 



carraway seeds, a little at a time. Dissolve a very small 
teaspoonful of soda in as much lukewarm water as will 
cover it. Then stir in at the last. Stir all very hard. 
Transfer it to a buttered tin pan with straight sides, and 
bake it in a loaf in a moderate oven. It will require a 
great deal of baking. 

CHARCOAL GINOER CAKE. 

A. Haldu'tn, Exq., Oftaica. 

Half a cupful of butter or dripping, half a cupful of 
molasses, one cupful of brown sugai*, half a cupful of water, 
half a teaspoonful of ginger, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
two teaspoonsful of pulverized charcoal, flour enough to 
roll. Cut into shape with a cake-cutter, 

GIN(}ER CAKE. 

Miss J. N. Carmichael, Bryson. 

Half a cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, large cup- 
ful of cream, two cupsful of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one of cream of tartar, three of ginger. Bake in a 
bread pan. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Miss J. N. Carmichael, Bryson. 

One ]»int of molasses, one half coffeecuj)ful of sugar, 
some lard or butter, half a cupful of water, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Roll and 
cut out and bake quickly. 

SOFT GINGER-BREAD. 

Miss J. X. Carmichael, Bryson. 

Five cupsful of floui*, three cupsful of uiolasses, one cup- 
ful of butter, one cupful of milk, two teaspoonsful of 
ginger, one teaspoonful of soda, three eggs ; pour into a 
pan and bake slowly. 



Oinger-hread. 437 

SOFT GINC.EU-BUKAI), 

Mrs. DonaUUon. 

One teacu])ful of butter, one teacupful of sugar, one tea- 
otiptul of milk, one teacupful of inolassi^s, tliree teacupsful 
of Hour, f(Mir ejij^'s, one and a half teaspoonsful of acxla, one 
ami a half teaspoonsful of cream of tartar. Ginger to 
taste. 

SOFT OINOKR-HKEAIX 

Minx M. M. JlntchiKon. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of butter, one cuj)ful of brown 
sugar, two eggs, one cujjful of molasses, one cupful of 
sweet milk, two and a half teaspoonsful of baking pow- 
der, four cupsful of Hour. Ginger and s[)ice to taste. 

(ilNGKa SNAPS. 

Mitts M. M. Hutchison, 

One pint of molass'^s, one cupful of butter, one table- 
spoonful of ging(!r. Put them together and let them boil 
up once, cool them, and add two small teaspoonsful of 
tluur, enough to roll out therein. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. G. M. Hatchison. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of brown sugar, two 
cupsful of molasses, two cupsful of cold water, two table- 
spoonsful of baking powder. Mix stiff with flour. Bake 
in a hot oven. 

GINGER-BREAD. 

Mrs. Laird, Bristol. 

Two cupsful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, two cups- 
ful of molasses, tbree tablespoonsful of ginger, one and a 
half tablespoonsful of allspice, two tablespoonsful of soda, 



438 



The Canadian Economist. 



two cupsful of sour cream, to all of wliicli add flour 
enough to make a Latter like pound cake. 

THIN GINGER SNAPS (WITHOUT EGGS). 

MiKS Jane Martin, Ottaiva. 

Take one cupful of molasses, one cupful of I utter, one 
cupful of brown sugar ; mix the molasses, butter and 
sugar well togetlu'r. Then take one cupful of milk, one 
teas))oonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonsfid of cream of tartar, flour to thicken it to a 
batter. After all is ready, take a little brown sugar, roll 
and stir in to make them crispy. Then butter tlu' ])an. 
Drop a spoonful in the pan, not too close together. Bake 
in a hot oven. 

HONEY GINGER CAKE. 

MiKS McQiKirrie. 

Rub together a pound of sifted tiour, a pound of fiosli 
butter; mix in a teaspoonful of tine brown sugar, two 
large tablespoonsful of strong ginger, and, if you like 
them, two tables] )Oonsful of carraway seeds. Having 
beaten five eggs, add them alternately with a pint of 
strained honey ; stirring in towards the last, a small tea- 
spoonful of soda tliat has been dissolved in a little vine- 
gar. Having lieaten or stirred the mixture long enoH*,']] 
to make it light, transfer it to ^^ s(piare tin or bloek-tin 
jmn. Put into a moderate oven and bake an liour or 
more according to thickness. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs McKclldi', OtioM-a. 

Half a pint of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of butter, boil together, then add four teaspoonsful of 
soda, three teasponsful of ginger, two teaspoonsful of cin- 
namon, and one teaspoonful of cloves. Flour enough to 
mould very stiff'. Roll out very thin. 



Ginger Snapff. 4.S9 

GIN(}ER SNAPS. 

Mrs. {Rev.) R. McLennan, P. E. I. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of giui^or, one cupful 
of molasses, two teaspoonsful of soda, and two teaspoons- 
tiil of ginjjfer, half a cupful of hot water. Flour to roll. 

SOFT (JINGEH-UREAl). 

Mrs. McTavish, Osgoode. 

Two eggs (not beaten), one cupful of molasses, half a 
cu})ful of sugar, one cupful of sour milk, three parts of a 
till ful of shortening, one tablespoonful of ginger one tea- 
spoonful of soda, sutticient Hour to make as thick as a 
sponge-cake. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

Miss Robertson, Tkorold. 

One cupful and a half of molasses, half a cupful of 
l)rovvn sugar, half a cupful of buttei', half a cupful of 
sweet milk, two teaspoonsful of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
soda, three cupsfnl of tioui-, no ^i^^s. 

PLUM GINGER-BREAD. 

Mrs. Ritchie, Portage-dit-Fort. 

( )ne cupful of butter, two cupsful of molasses, three 
r<(!4s, <me cupful of new milk, one cujtful of raisins, two 
('U]»sful of ginger, one teas})oonful of soda. Bake moder- 
ately. 

GINGER SNAPS, 

Mrs. Ritchie. 

Two cupsful of molasses, one cupful of brown sugai-, one 
half cupful of butter, one half cupful of lanl, one cupful 
of sour milk, oni' tal>lespoonful of soda, one tablespoonful 
of ginger. Mix as soft as possil>le to roll. 



440 



The Canadian Economist. 



GINdER-BREAD. 

Mrs. Thompson, Point Fortune. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, half a cup- 
ful of butter, three-quarters of a cupful of milk, one tea- 
spoonful and a quarter of soda, two teas|)oonsful of cieam 
of tartar, one teavSpoonful and a (piarter of ginger. Mix 
rather stiff. 

GINGER-BREAD. 

Miss Thompson, Revfretr. 

Three eggs, half a cupful of sugar, one cupful of butter, 
one pint of molasses, one cupful of sour milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of ginger. Nutmeg 
and cinnamon to taste, and flour to thicken like sponge- 
cake. 

SOFT GINGER-BREAD. 

Miss Stewart. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful of sour milk, four cupsful of sifted flour, one egg, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, two tablespoonsful of soda. 

GOOD EVERY-DAY GINGER-BREAD. 

Mrs. Williams, ChaiuHere. 

Three cupsful of flour, one cupful of sour milk, one cup- 
ful of sugar, one cupful of molasses, three-quarters of a 
cupful of butter, two eggs not beaten, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of soda, one heaping teas])oonful of ginger, spice 
to taste. Bake twenty minutes in shallow pans. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Take three pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one 
pint of molasses, one tablespoonful of soda, four table- 



Wheat Meal Ginger-hread. 



441 



spoonsful of finger ; thrGe-quartors of a pound of l»ro\vn 
siiijar makes them more crisp. Roll out thin, and l)ake 
in buttered tins in a quick oven. 

CHOICE GINGER- BREAD. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Two cupsful of Orleans molasses, one cupful of brown 
siijj;ar, one cupful of lard, two cupsful of sour milk, one 
U'aspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartai', 
one teaspocnful of ginoer, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of cloves, two eggs; add currants, raisins, 
citron if you like. 

SOFT GIN(JER-J5UEAD. 

Mrs, James Thomson. 

Two cupsful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, one cupful of milk, 
four cupsful of Hour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of ginger. 
Bake in a brisk oven. 

GINGER CAKES. 

Miss Robertson, Thorold. 

One egg, one tablespoonful of lard, one tablespoonful of 
ginger, one cupful of molasses, half a cupful of milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda. Flour to roll out. 

WHEAT MEAL GINGER-BREAD. 

Fani'dy Friend. 

One pound and a quarter of wheat meal^ one pound of 
treacle, quarter of a pound of sugai-, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, three-quarters of an ounce of carraway seeds 
bruised, three-quarters of an ounce of ginger, three-(juar- 
ters of an ounce of lemon peel, half a pint of new milk, 
one teaspo(mful of soda. Bake in a very slow oven. 



442 



The Canadian Economist. 



GINGER NUTS. 

Miss Robertson, Thorohl. 

One cupful of baking molasses, three ounces of ginger. 
Ruh butter, sugar and Hour together. 

YORKSHIRE CAKES. 

Family Friend. 

Take two pounds of flour and mix with it four ounces 
of butter melte<l in a ))int of good milk, three spoonsful 
of yeast, and two eggs. Boat all well together and let it 
rise, then knead it and make it into cakes. Let them rise 
on tins before you bake them, which do in a .slow oven. 

RICE CHEESE CAKES. 

Mrs. {Hon. A.) Vldal, Sarnia. 

Half a pound of ground rice, half a pound of buttei, 
half a pound of white sugar, four eggs, grated rind and 
juice of one lemon. Whip the eggs and mix all togetlier, 
fill patty-pans, lined with puff-paste. 

EXCELLENT SPONGE CAKE. 

M7's. (Hon. A.) Vidal, Sarnia. 

Eight eggs, four cupsful of fine white sugar, four cups- 
ful of flour, one cupful of cold water (not too full), essence 
of lemon, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat the 
eggs to a very stifl' frotli. 




^m?, 
^j^ 




CHAPTER XXVIII. 

SAIvDWICHKS, BREAKFAST AND TEA RELISHES, 
- ENTREES, CROQUETTES, ET(\ 

GRATKD HAM SANDWICHES. 

(^ RATE finely as much well cooked ham as you aie 
X likely to require. Flavour it with very little 
cayenne and some nutmeg. Roll out some good putt' 
paste very thin. Cut it into two perfectly even por- 
tions. Prick in one or two places to prevent its rising too 
higldy, an<l hake in a quick oven till of a golden brown. 
Then take it out and let it stand till cool, when spread a 
little fresh hutter lightly over the whole. This should 
not be done till the paste is perfectly cool. Now spread 
the grated ham evenly over the paste. Lay the second 
piece of puff-paste over it, and with a very sharp knife 
cut into small-sized sandwiches. This is a charming sup- 
per dish. 

SAUSAGE ROLLS. 

Roll some puff-paste rather thin, cilt it into squares of 
about four inches. Take the skins off the sausages, di- 
vide them in two, roll them in tiour, and put one-half in 
each roll, turn the [)asto over. Cut it straight with a knife 
at the ends. Glaze with white of eggs and bake in a 
( I nick oven. 

PORK CAKE. 

Mrs. Brown, Ottawa. 

One pound of salt pork, fat, chopped fine, poui- half a 
pet of boiling water over it, two cupsful of sugar, one cup- 



444 



The Canadian Economist. 



ful of molasses, one pound of raisins, a teaspoonful of soda, 
a quarter of a pound of citron-peel. Spice to taste. Mix 
altogether, with flour, to the thickness of a common cake. 
Bake slowly. If you choose you can add more fruit. 

FRENCH DISH. 

Mrs. E. K. Brovsvn. 

Cold meat and hard boiled eggs, chopped fine, mustard, 
vinegar, a little butter, red and black pepper, salt ; three 
eggs, for medium-sized side dishful. Put in the season- 
ing to suit taste. 

COLD JOINT. 

Miss Mdggie Bunton, Bradford, Pa. 

Take what is left of a cold turkey, chop fine, pour 
over it hot cranberry sauce enough to make the pieces of 
meat stick together when cold. Mix thoroughly, put it 
into a deep dish and press down solid with the bottom of 
another dish. When cold, turn out and cut into slices. 

CHICK KN HA LI BIT. 

Miss Jennie C. Boardman, Lowell, Mass.. 

Put one pound and a-half of chicken halibut in a dcej) 
baking dish. Fill the dish with milk, and sprinkle over 
salt. Hour, pepper, and a little butter. Let this bake one 
hour. Ten minutes before the expiration of the hour 
break into the milk around the fish six or eight eggs. 

MINCED VEAL. 

Mrs. Cantin, Montreal. 

Chop three and a half pounds of veal very fine, add one 
tablespoonful of pepper, one ounce of salt, one nutmeg, 
four Boston crackers rolled fine, a piece of butter the size 
of an e^g, three well beaten eggs. Make the whole into 



Fish Balls. 



445 



a loa^ and bake two hours, taking cai*e to baste it often 
To be cut in slices and eaten cokl. 

SPIC'KD MEAT. 

Ah's. (Capf.) Cowley. 

Three pounds ofraw beef or veal — nicely chopped — 
ont3 tablespoonful of salt, a dessertspoonful of pepper, the 
same of sage and savory, two tablespoonsful of butter 
iiu'lted, two eggs, half a cupful of rolled cracker, mix well, 
shape in a long roll like butter. Bake two hours. Be 
sui-e to keep water in th<! pan and baste often. When 
cold, it is nice sliced for tea. 

OMELKTTE. 

Mrs. Donaldson. 

Six eggs, half a teacupful of milk, one teaspoonful of 
flour, one ounce of butter, two teaspoonslul of yeast pow- 
der. Beat the whites and yolks separately. Boil the 
milk, and just as it comes to the boil stir in the tiavour, 
then the eggs, and lastly the yeast pow^der. 

FISH BALLS. 

M rs. James Dahjliesh. 

Two cupsful of cold boiled codfish, or salted, one cupful 
of mashed potatoes, one half cupful of drawn butter with 
<an eg^ beaten, season to taste. Chop the fish when you 
have fi'eed it of bones and skin ; work in the potatoes 
and moisten with the drawn butter until it is soft enough 
to mould and will yet keep in shape. Roll the balls in 
flour and fry quickly to a golden brown, in lard or clear 
dripping. Take from the fat so soon as they are done, 
say in a colander sieve, and shake gently to fi'ee them 
from every drop of grease. Turn out for a moment on 
white paper to absorb any lingering drops and serve up 
on a hot dish. 



446 



The Canadian Economist 



CODFISH BALLS. 

Mrs. J. W. Farrdl, Kingston. 

Boil the fisli tlie day before, tlien pick fine and mix 
with maslied potatoes. To a two quart bowl of fish and 
potatoes (one third fish to two thirds potatoes), choj) up 
four hard-ijoiled eggs and a teaeu])ful of drawn better 
and a little pepper. Let it stand till to-morrow, then 
make into balls and fry in lard. 

()MELETTP\ 

Mlxs Jwnor, S^. Marys. 

Take a sliee of bread an inch thick, cut otf the crust 
fiom it, pour half a pint of boiling water npon it, season 
with jiepper and salt to taste. Beat np the yolks of five 
eggs and add to the bread and milk when cold ; then add 
the whites well beaten. This makes two omelettes. 

SIDE-DISH OF MEAT. 

Mrs. W. Kennedy, Given Sound. 

Take pieces of meat left from roast, and add some frosli 
beefsteak, put in cold water and stew two hours or more, 
when near time for serving mix a little milk. Hour, butter, 
pepper and salt together, enough to cover your meat ; 
boil all together, serve hot. 

FRENCH MODE OF WARMING VEAL. 

ilf/.s'.s Lesslie, KuKjsfoj}. 

Take cold meat left from roast, cut into small pieces, 
season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg or 
mace, sprinkle with a little flour; put in the fryingpiin a 
little milk and any gravy or jelly left, then put in imat 
and the white of one egg well beaten, then remove from 
the fire and stir in the yolk of one egg. 



A Delicate Omelette. 



447 



CHICKEN LOAF. 

Mvf^. Than. McKay. 

, l^oil ;i cliit'ken until it will come readily from the bones, 
Itoiling down the broth until there is but little left. Chop 
the chicken when cold, adding the jellied broth ; chop or 
ciinuble tine bread, and add to the chicken, with two eggs 
(raw), ])epper, salt, and mace to taste ; work the whole 
into a loaf, glaze with white of egg and cover with crumbs, 
put in the oven and cook until brown. To be cut in 
slices and eaten cold. 



SARDINK SANDWICH KS. 

Mrs. Thos McKiuj. 

Take some sardines from a tin, free them from oil, re- 
move the tails and skin and bone, pound them in a mor- 
tar with a piece of fresh butter, an anchovy, a little mace, 
salt and cayenne ; spread the mixture between slices of 
brown bread and butter ; or they may be simply skinned, 
boned, and halved, and with the addition of salt and pep- 
per and a little French mustard, placed V)etween slices of 
biead and butter. 

A DELICATE OMELETTE. 

Mi's. J. W. Farrell, Kn\(jsto)i 

Break eight eggs in a stewpan,to which add a te^ispoonf ul 
of very finely-chopped parsley, half a teaspoonf ul of salt, 
a pinch of pepper, and three good tablespoonsful of cream, 
beat them well together, then put two ounces of butter 
in an omelette-pan, stand it over a sharp fire, and as soon 
as the butter is hot, pour in the eggs, stir them round 
(piickly with a spoon until delicately set; then shake the 
pan round, leave it a moment to colour the omelette, hold 
the pan in a slanting position, just tap it upon the stove 
to l)ring the omelette to a proper shape, and roll the flap 



448 



The Canadian Economist. 



over the spoon ; turn it upon your dish and serve it iis 
soon as done. Take care not to do it too much. 

SANDWICH KS. 

Mrs. J. W. Farrell, KliH/ston. * 

For improved sandwiches, boil a few pounds of liam 
and chop it very fine wliih' it is yet warm — fat and Kan 
together — rub dry mustard in proportiorjs to suit your 
taste througli the mass, a<ld as much sweet butter as 
would go to the spreading of your sandwielies, and when 
thoroughly mixed, sj)lit light l)iseuits in halves and spread 
the ham between. These can be eaten without troul^le, 
and will be found excellent. 

SCALLOPE') VKAL. 

Mrs. J. W. Farrell, Kingston. 

Chop cold cooked veal fine, put a layer in a baking- 
dish, alternating with a layer of powdered crackers, salt, 
pepper and butter, with two eggs beaten up with a pint 
of milk, cover with a plate, and bake half an hour. 

POTATO OMELETTE. 

Mrs. J. W. Farrell, Klngtdon. 

This may be made with a mashed potato or two oun- 
ces of potato flour and four eggs and seasoned with pep- 
per, salt and a little nutmeg. It should be made thiciv, 
and being rather substantial a S(|ueeze of lemon improves 
it. Fry a light brown. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Mrs. Boss, O.L.a 

Take a slice of beafsteak about three pounds, prepare a 
dressing and spread over it, and roll up and tie very 
tightly, and bake. 



Ji'llied VeaL 



449 



JELLIKI) CHICKKN. 

Mrs. Jioss, O.L.C. 

Cni up two chickenH and lioil in enou»^li water to cover 
tlu'in, until tender, rcMnove the skin an<l i)()ne.s, and season 
tilt' licjuor, of wliicli there woukl he a litth3 less than a 
(juart, witli butter, pepper and salt and the juice of a 
lemon, if liked, dissolve a (piarter of a box of gelatine in 
a little warm water, and add with the chicken to the 
li(juor. Boil up once, and pour into a mould. When 
cold cut with a very shar[) knife, (n- it will break in 
pieces. 

MINCED VP:AL. 

Mrs. \Y kite, Bradford. 

Three povnids of V(!al finely minced, a (juai'ter dozen of 
soda crackers pounded fine, three eggs, salt, pepper, sage, 
cinnamon, and cloves. Bake three hours. Cut cold. 
Half a pound of salt pork, baste with butter. 

PICKLED IIERRINtlS. 

Miss Young. 

Prepare the herrings as for cooking. Pack in a stone 
jar, having previously rubbed them well with a mixture 
of salt, pepper and allspice. Cover with vinegar. Cover 
the jar and set in a slow oven, and let it stand fourteen 
hours. Take out of the oven when a stronger fire is re- 
quired ; when thus prepared, they are ready for use at 
any time. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

Young- JAidies' Journal. 

Take a knuckle of veal, wash it, put it in a pot with 

water enough to cover it, boil it slowly for two or three 

hours; take out all the bones — be sure to pick out all 

little ones — cut the meat into little pieces, put it back in 

29 



450 



The CifntuJim Economist. 



tlio liquor, season to your taste with pepper, salt, and 
saiifc ; let it «te\v away until pretty <lry ; turn it in an 
oblong dish, oi- one that will mould it well to cut in 
slices. 

\ATV\A-] VOUK IMKS KoR I'.KKA K FAST. 

Fainilij Fyi<'ii<l. 

Thi-ce and a halt' pouinl^ ot" flour, one pound of Jani, 
one i)int and a ludf of water, three teaspoonsful of pep. 
per, six teaspoonfuls of salt, five pounds of meat. Hoil 
the lard and water to^^ethei-, pour lioijinj^' on the (lour, 
hftvin".,^ first made a hole in the Hour, mix well an<l let it 
stand l»y tlie side of the fii'e — it must not he too cold or 
too hot, or it will not rise nicely ; mould it as an ordinary 
I'aised pie of the size you wish ; till the pies with the meat, 
cut in very small s(juare pieces, season it, pour a litth; 
water in, ])ut on the lid, ])ineh the edge together, trim 
round with scissors and ornament with leaves formed with 
a paste-cutter. Let the pies stand at least four hours he- 
fore baking ; put them in rathei- a slow oven; bake from 
one and a half to two hours, When brought out of tlic 
oven pour into the hole of the lid of the pies, thi-ough a 
funnel, as much gravy as they will take, }>reviously niatle 
from the bone*, and trinmiings of the pork. 

MUSHHOOMS. 



To stew: fare neatly, put in a basin of water with a 
little lemon juice for a few mimites ; lift them out eaic- 
fully and put them to stew gently, closely covered, for 
half an hour, with a good piece .of butter, a little ])e|>per 
and salt, add a spoonful or two t>f cream shortly bcfdiv 
serving, flour to thicken, lemon juice or nutmeg may he 
added, but the exfjuisite flavour of perfectly fresh uiiisli- 
rooms — others are really unfit for use — is only spoile<l by 
such additions, Broiled. — Hroil large flaps, turning tlieiii 
once over a clear tire ; put them in a very hot dish, w itli 
a piece of butter and a sprinkling of pepper and salt on 



Ham Omelette. 



451 



It, lUlil 

in ail 

cut ill 



tf lard, 
)t' |»']»- 
,. Bull 
o Hour, 
(I let it 
fold or 
nrniai'v 
e meat, 

a littlt! 
jr, trim 
ed \vitli 
)urs l)e- 
k«,' tV(jiii 
of tlie 

imn'h a 
made 



with a 

it C'clWr 

■vi\, lor 
]H'i»pL'r 

lict'oiv 

uay 1>L' 
musli- 
iled by 
Y>- theiu 
h, with 
Isalt on 



cacli inushiooin ; serve very liot ami (luickly. Baked. — - 
I'lit tlu'in into a tin baking dish with hutter, \:e. Bake 
gently ; pile higli on dish ; mix a little creaui with white 
stuck, and pour round. 

FISH ri{<)t;i' KITES. 

Yoiiiiij Ladles' Jonrndl. 

The remains of any cold tish. Remove all skin and 
hones most carotullv, then masli the tish free from all 
lumps ; add a piece of hutter, pepper, salt and mace (and 
it" you have any cold crab or lobster sauce so much the 
better). Form the tish into portions the size and shape 
of an egg, if too soft a few bread-crumbs may be jKhled. 
Dip each portion into an egg well beaten up, and then 
into fine luead-crumbs. Fiy a golden ])rown in boiling 
lard, drain and servo on a najtkin garnished with fried 
parsley or on a dish with tartre sauce. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Family Frier d. 

Ingredients : chicken and ham, tour eggs, one table- 
spoonful of salad oil, mustard, vinegar (chop the chicken 
not too Hne), also a little nice ham ; then braid together 
the yolks of the eggs (boiled very hard) with the oil, when 
smooth, add a little made mustard ami vinegar, should it 
not be salt enough from the ham, add a little salt ; stir 
this mixture well and add the meat ; have ready some 
tliiii slices of bread buttered, and put i;ome of the mixture 
between two slices ; very nice. 

HAM oMi.i.K'rn:. 
Ycnuaj Ladies' JoUi lud. 

It is easily and (juickly made and relished W(dl. Beat 
four eggs till (piite feathery, then add three large spoons- 
ful of finel}' minced ham ; butter the frying{»an well and 



452 



TJiL Canadian. Economist, 



pour all in, when v.ell set, roll up like a jelly roll and 
serve inunediatcly ; a steady and moderate fire is always 
necef;sary to make a nice omelette. 

HAM AND TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

Keep an unopened can in tlie house and then you can 
have sandwiches at any moment. 

TO COOK CANNED SALMON AND LOH^JTER. 

Home Messenger. 

Open the can l»y takiuLj the top off, drain away the 
liquor, take a tahlespoonf'ul of buttei-, a teaspoonful of 
vinegar and a teacui)t"ul of boiling watev ; pour over the 
salmon, set the can in a pot of hot water and let cook for 
twenty or thirty minutes, again drain off the liquor, let 
the salmon cool and pour over it a Mayonnaise dressin;,^ 
Lobsters should be drained in a colander and left to air 
two hours. 

RELISH FOR COLD MKAT LUNCHEON. 

Family Friend. 

Take four ripe tomatoes, divide in halves, and fill each 
with a little butter and bread-crumbs, salt and pepper; 
add vinegar in the dish they are to be baked in. 

SALMON IN A MOULD. 

Home Messenger. 

One can of salmon, four eggs beaten light, four tahh^- 
spoonsful of butter melted, l)ut not hot, half a cupful of 
fine bread-crumbs ; season with pep})er, salt and miiictd 
parsley ; cho]> the fisli f^ne, then rub the butter in till 
smooth ; beat the crumbs into the e^g and season before 
working together, ])ut into a Inittered mould and steam 
one hour. Sauce for tlie same : one cupful of milk heated 



Biscuits. 



453 



oil and 
always 



^•ou can 



vvay the 
loni'ul of 
over the 
cook for 
qiior, let 
ilressinjf. 
if t to air 



lull each 
1 pepper ; 



[■ tahle- 

Upf'ul of 
mineed 
[r in till 
I) V)efore 
ll steam 
heateil 



to a boil, thickened with one tablespoonful of coinstarch 
and one tablespoonful of butter rubbed together, the liquor 
fioui the salmon, one raw egf^, one teaspoonful of tomato 
catsup, pinch of mace and a pinch of cayenne ; put the 
eoo- in last and very caref dly. Lobster may be prepared 
in the same way. 

FHIED CHICKEN. 

Famihj Friend. 

Fry some slices of salt pork mitil the grease is extracted, 
but not until they brown. Wash and cut up a yoimg 
chicken of boiling size, soak ia salt and water half an 
hour, wipe dry, season witli jiopper, dredge with Hour, and 
fiT in the hot fat to a nice brown ; set aside in a hot cov- 
eied dish ; poiir into the gravy left in the nan a cup of 
cream or rich milk ; thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, 
the same of l)utter, and ad<l a little chopped parsley ; boil 
u[» and pour over the chicken. 

SCxVLLOPEU CIIICKEX. 

Mince cold chicken and a little lean ham quite fine, 
season with pepper and a little salt if needed, stir all to- 
gether, add some sweet cream, enough to make quite moist, 
cover with crumbs, put it into a scalloi) shell or a flat 
dish, pour a little butter on top and brown before the 
tire or front of a range. 

HISCUiTS. 

Godey's Bool'. 

Take about half a pound of trimmings or puff paste, 
give it three turns or folds, roll it out to the thickness of 
a penny piece, place small balls of croquette meat at the 
distance of about two inches from each other ; moisten 
the paste around these with a little (igg, fold the flap of 
the paste over the balls, ])rcss all around them with the 
thumb, cut them out with a tinted round tin cutter, place 



4.j4 



The Canadian Economist. 



them on a floured tlisli, dip them in egg, and then bread 
ciumbs and fry them in hot lard, a light }>rown colour ; 
dish them np with fried parsley, 

CROQUETTES OF MUTTON. 

Godey'fi Book. 

Make about half the quantity of the pre})aration for 
rissoles. Roll out some puft* paste rather thin, cut out 
with a round cutter, about the size of the top of a teacup, 
as many circles of paste as you wish i-issoles, put on 
each a large teaspoonful of the mince, double half the 
circle over it, w^et the edges and press them together, and 
either fry the croquettes in hot fat or bake them in the 
oven ; if baked, wash them over previously with beaten 
yolk of QQ^. Dish them high on a folded naj)kin, and 
send to table very hot. 

LIEBIG SANDWICH LS. 

CassefVs Household Guide. 

For travellers or invalids, Liebig's extract of meat 
makes a ver}^ nice and nutritious sandwich. Directions: 
Cut four thin slices of bread and butter, using the best 
fresh l)utter, spread over two of the slices a thin layer of 
the extract, with a little mustard. The extract is gene- 
rally sufficiently salt, but it may be added if desired. 
Place on the top of these two slices, the other two slices 
of bread and butter. 



'/^;>^ 





CHAPTER XXIX. 
SAVOURY JELLIES AND JELLIES. 



ASPIC JELl.Y. 

Home M('^sen<jei\ 

ri'lAKEof velouto(a finely prepared veal .stock, made from 
J_ knuckles of veal) four gallon.s, boil it down to two 
gallons, add to this eight calves' feet, and boil briskly for 
two hours, add to this six lemons, two sticks of cinm;.nion, 
two teaspoonsful of mace, either powdered or in blades, 
salt to biing to a tlavour half a pound of sugar, boil two 
hours, set aside on the range to settle and strain through 
flannel bags twice. • 

HAllTSHOKX JKLLV. 

Mrx. Bredfu. 

Hartshorn one pound, water one gallon, peel of two le- 
mons, boil over a gentle lire until suthcienMy thick, strain 
and add loaf-sugar half a pound; whites of ten eggs well 
beaten to a froth, juice of six: lemons, mix well together 
and put into moulds. 

ISIXGI.ASS .JEIJ.V. 

Mrs. Bredm. 

Put four ounces of isinglass and two ounces of cloves 
into a gallon of water, boil it down to half a gallon, strain 
t upon four pounds of loaf-sugar, and put into moulds. 



45G 



llie Canadian Economist. 



LEMOX JELLY. 

Mrs. Breden. 



Isinglass two ounces, water one quart, boil ; add sufrar 
one pound, clarify, and when nearly cold, add the juice of 
five lemons, and the grated yellow rinds of two oranges 
and two lemons, mix well, strain off the peel and put in 



glasses or moulds. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Mrs. Breden. 

Wash eight ounces of tapioca well, then soak it in a 
gallon of fresh water five or six hours, add the peels of 
eight lemotis, and set all on to heat, simmer till clear, add 
the juice of eight lemons, flavour and sugar to taste, then 
pour into moulds. 

JP:LLIED CHICK-EN. 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte. ' 

Cut up your fowl, lay it in on your stewpan, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, cover with water and boil till the 
meat will sh.ake from the bones (have ready a package of 
gelatine soaked in a cupful of waterj, after removing the 
fowl pour the gelatine into the liquor, season with a little 
mace, take the meat from the bones, arrange it nicely in 
your mould, dark and light alternately, two eggs boiled 
hard and cut in thin slices may be added, then pour the 
liquor over and set it in a cool jilace. 

CHICKEN JFLLY. 

31rs. McKenzie, Almonte. 

Put a fowl into a pan (an old one preferred), also a 
hough of beef with carrot, turnip and salt (no peppe?), a 
sufficient quantity of water so as to allow of slow boiling 
for twelve hours without adding any water ; put it 



Orange Jelly. 



457 



til rough a sieve into a large dish, let it cool, take off the 
f<at, use the fat either cold as a jelly or melted as soup 
with some toast. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

MvH. James Eodfjer, Montreal. 

Soak one package of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water one hour, add the juice of three lemons, two pounds 
of sugar, one quart of boiling water, when well dissolved 
add one pint of orange juice, strain carefully and set in a 
cool place till ready for use. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Mrs. James Ro<J(jer, Montreal 

Wash and strain the currants. Boil the juice and 
skim it. To each pound of the juice allow one pound of 
loaf sugar. Measure the juice when it is boiled, and then 
tlnow the sugar into a pan and make a syrup of it with 
a little water. Then add the juice and let it boil raj)idly 
till dcme. Jellies should always be made quickly. Those 
who are very jmrticular use only the juice which lirst 
Hows through the straining bag, as the thicker particles 
which come through when the bag is squeezed, prevent 
its being so brilliantly clear. Jelly .should always be 
boiled sufficiently at first, as it cannot be reboiled like 
preserves. If boiled a second time it will not be jelly 
but only of the consistency of syrup. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Mrs. James Rodfjer, Montreal. 

Peel twelve large and sweet oi'anges ; cut them into 
small pieces, and squeeze them thoroughly through a lin- 
en bag. To one pint of juice, add one pound of sugar; 
when the sugar is dissolved, put it over the fire ; dissolve 
two ounces of isinglass in just enough hot water to cover 



458 



The Canadian Economist. 



it, and add it to the jelly as it begins to boil. Let it boil 
very fast for twenty minutes. Put it hot into the jars 
and tie up with pa|)er. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Mrs. James Roihjev, Montreal. 

Express the juice from the fruit through a cloth, strain 
it clear, weigh and stir to it an equal proportion of the 
finest sugar, dried and reduced to powder; when tliis is 
dissolv^ed place the preserving ]>an over a very clear tire 
and stir the jelly often until it boils; clear it carefully 
from scum and boil it (quickly from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. This receij^t is for a moderate (piantity of the 
preserve ; a very small portion will require much less 
time. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Mrs. James Rodt/er, Montreal. 

Pare, core and cut small, any good baking apples, say 
nine i)Ounds in weight, put them into a stewpan with 
three pints of water; boil them gently, stirring them till 
the liquid can be passed through a jelly-bag — then to 
each pint add three-quarters of a pound of powdeied loaf 
sugar. Set it on the fire, boil it fifteen minutes, skim- 
ming it, when it will jelly ; but if it be overboiled it will 
I'esemble treacle. 



APPLE JELLY IN MOl'LDS. 

Mrs. James Ilochjer, Montreal. 

Peel and core juicy apples and boil two pounds of them 
with half a pint of water to a jelly, pass it through a 
sieve. Add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, the 
juice of one lemon, and one ounce of isinglass, dissolved 
in very little water. Mix together, strain and pour into 
moulds. 




CHAPTER XXX. 
CHKESE, DAIRY AND COWS. 

FONDUK. 

3/r.s'. Alexander, New Eilhihiivf/h. 

ri"^AKE two ounces (>f bread and boil in half a pint of 
_L niilk,till ([uite soft, grate into it four ounces of cheese, 
the yolks of three eggs, a lump of buttei* the size of an 
egg. Put all in with the bread, and let it just boil. Keep 
stirring the whites of the eggs to a stiti' froth. Mi.x all 
well together. Pour into a pudding-dish and bake when 
it will rise and brown quickly. To be eaten hot with a 
little mustard. 

CHEKSE STRAWS. 

Mrs. JJlcl'ie. 

Two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, two ounces 
of bread-crumbs, two ounces of grated cheese, a little 
salt and pepper. Mix these ingredients into a paste and 
roll it a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into narrow slips ; 
lay them on a sheet of paper and bake for a few minutes. 
Serve cold. 

FONDUE. 

i)/i.s.s' Boiujhis, Kin<jsfon. 

Four eggs, weight of two in cheese, add in butter salt, 
and pepper, black and red, to taste. Separate yolks and 
whites, beat the yolks, and grate or cut the cheese into 
thin slices. Break the butter into small pieces, add to 



460 



Tlie Canadian Economist, 



the other ingredients and beat thorougldy ; wliisk tlio 
whites and stir in lightly, just before putting into tlie 
oven : till the dish half-full, as the fondue should rise in 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Sutfieient for four or five per- 
sons. It is to be eaten with mustard and the plates are 
to be very hot. 

cur: AM CHEKSE. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Take a large pan of rich unskimnKMl milk, that has sot 
in the dairy all night, and is from pasture-fed cows in the 
summer. Have readv a small teacui)ful of rennet-water 
in which a piece of rennet from four to six inches S(|uare 
has been steeping several hours. Stir the rennet-water 
into the pan of milk, and set it in a warm place until it 
forms a curd. Tie up the curd in a clean linen bag, and 
hang it up in the dairy with a pan under it to receive the 
droppings till it drops no longer. Then transfer the curd 
to a small cheese-mould. Cover it all over with a clean 
linen cloth, folded over the sides and well secured. Put 
a heavy weight on the top so as to press it hard. The 
wooden vessel in which you mould cream cheeses should 
be a bottondess, broad hoop, about the circumference of a 
dinner-plate. Set it, before you fill it with the curd, on 
a very clean table, or a large Hat dish. Turn it every day 
for four daj's, keeping it covered thickly all over with 
fresh green grass, fretiuently renewed. When done, keep 
it in a dry, cold place, just rubbing the outside with fresh 
butter. When once cut, use the whole on that day, as it 
may spoil before the next. Send it to the table cut across 
in triangular or pie pieces. 

TO MAKE BUTTER. 

Miss Barbara Grclg, South Geonjetown. 

In order to make butter well, it is necessary that the 
vessels in which the milk is kept, be sweet and clean, and 



Cowfi. 



461 



the niilk-rooiii in siiininor cool }m<l airy. Woodon churns 
are mostly used and thoy should he kept sweet and clean 
in the snme manner as the other vessels, exposing the in- 
side to the heat of the sun, until thoroughly dry, after 
each time of washing. A wooden tub and basin is also 
necessary for receiving and working the butter after it is 
made. Care is necessary that the churning is neither too 
fast nor too slowly performed. Scald the tub and ladle, 
then till it with cold water until the butter is made. After 
the butter is made, take it from tiie butt(;rmilk with the 
ladle, i)ressing it against the side of the churn to free it 
from the milk. Put the butter in cold water, then with 
the ladle work all the milk from it, changing the water 
until it is clear: it is best to have ice-water, if possible, 
in summei-. To each pound of butter put a small tea- 
spoonful of fine salt, and a small teaspoonful of tine white 
sugar; work it nicely into the Initter, and pack it in 
wooden or stone vessels. Put a piece of muslin and a 
cover over, to keep it from the air. The shelves and floor 
of a milk-room should be washed and wiped dry twice a 
week in summer, and once each week in winter. The 
place should be cool and sweet and free from any musti- 
ness, which will affect the milk. 



cows. 
Miss Beechev. 



The kind of butter depends very much upon the kind 
of cows. Those who give a great deal of milk are usu- 
ally small and thin. Every cow should have a teacupful 
of salt each week, and must be well fed. Green corn- 
stalks and carrots are excellent for cows. Turnips, cab- 
bage and parsnips spoil tlie milk. The waste of a kitchen 
with a quart of corn meal and as much hay as she will 
eat daily, is good fare. Skimmed milk for a drink is good, 
and if it is refused, withhold water, and the cow will 
learn to love it. Milk three times a day, and you get 



4G2 



The Canadian Economist. 



much more cream ; stiippinfjf must be done thoroughly or 
you lose cream and (hy up tlie cow. Never make a cow 
run, as it injures tlie milk. Use tin vessels for milk. A 
stone- ware churn is best. 

CHEKSE CREAM. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Put three ])ints of milk to half a pint of cream wjuni, 
or according to the same ])roportions, and ])ut in a little 
rennet. Keep it covered in a waiui place, till it is curded. 
Have a mould with holes, either of china or any other. 
Put th.e curds into it to drain about an hour ; serve with 
a good plain cream, and pounded sugar over it. 

TO PREPARE RKNNKT TO TURN MILK. 

Waynes Lvevy-dny Cookery. 

Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and 
scour inside and out with salt. After it is cleared of tlio 
curds always found in it, let it di-ain a few hours ; then 
sew it up with two handsful of salt in it, or stretch it on 
a stick, well salted, or keep it in the salt wet^ and soak a 
])iece for use, which will do over and over again by wash- 
ing it in fresh water. 

NAPKIN CHEESE. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

One pint of thick cream, one teasjioonful of salt. Pnt 
a pint of thick cream and a teaspoonful of salt into a 
cloth, which .should be placed in a sieve the size of a tea 
saucer. Let it stand for twenty-four hours, then turn it. 
Let it stand for another day and turn it. The <lay tol- 
Jowing it will be read}' to serve. 




OKAPTER XXXI. 
riCKLKS AND CATSW. 



CHOWDER. 
Mrs. Marj Urowjh, Ott(iv:a. 

ONE peck of toinatoos sliced ; sprinkle a little salt 
on them and let them remain over night. Next 
nioinin*,^ pour oft' the liquid and add six onions chopped 
tine, one cir, ful of grated horse-i-adish, one tahlespoonful 
(iF allspice and cloves and a little nutmeg, one pint of 
sugar, and as much vinegar as will cover them, and boil 
them a short time. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

JfrN. Bveclvn, Ottaivd. 

Take ripe tomatoes, boil till soft, strain through a fine 
sieve : to one gallon of the juice put two teaspoonsful of 
salt, two of black pepper, one of mustard, half a table- 
spoonful of allspice, one teaspoonful of cloves, a small 
(|iiantity of red pepper, one pint of vinegar, half-a-cupful 
of sugar; boil one lumr, then add spice and boil till done. 

. CUJiRANT CATSUI'. 

il//.s.s Minjf/le Bunton, Bnulford. 

Weigh five [)Ounds of currants from which the seeds 
have been removed ; put into a jajv, and wash well, three 
pounds of sugar, add two tablespoonsful of cloves, two of 
'•innamim; one teacu])fLd of sour vinegar. 



404 



The Canadian Economist. 



I'ICKLKD PLUMS. 

Mrs. E. R. Bronson, Oftaiva. 

Seven poaiKls of fruit, four pounds of suj^ai', one i[uart 
of vine<^ar, spices to taste ; for pears use less sugar. 

COLD SLAW. 

J/vs. E. li. Branson, Ottawa. 

Cut a cabbanjo in small pieces and make a dressin*,' as 
follows : oiie teacuipful of vin(!<,'ar, two teas[)oonsful of 
mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, four t)f sugar, two of 
melted butter ; two tablcspoonsful of linely-mashed pota- 
toes added to the dressing will improve it. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. E. R. Branson, Ottaiva, 

Take one peck of tomatoes, quarter of a pound of pep- 
per, quarter of a pound of allspice, quarter of a pound of 
white mustard seed, two ounces of cloves, six tablcspoons- 
ful of salt, half-a gallon of vinegar ; boil slowly six hours, 
cool and then bottle. 

RECIPE FOR MAKING VINEOAR. 

Miss Maggie Bunion, Bradford. 

Three gallons of rn in- water, one pint of yeast, one (juart 
of molasses; let this mixture stand in the sun from four 
to six we«eks. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE. , 

Mrs. E. H. Bronsan, Ottawa. 

Take cucumbers fully ripe, pare and scrape out the in- 
side, cut them in pieces lengthwise, lay them in weak 
brine for twenty-four hours, then take them out, wipe 
dry and put in weak vinegar for twenty-four hours ; tlit'ii 



Green Tonuito Pickles, 



405 



to seven pounds of tlic cucunibers add one quart of vine- 
j,Mr and one pound of suj^ar ; boil till soft. Take out the 
c'iicuml)2is, and to the vine<jfar add spices to suit the taste 
'allspice, cinnamon and cloves), boil a few minutes; junir 
the vinegai* on U) the euciunbers. A little liorse-radiah 
sauce will preserve the vinegar. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Baptie. 

Wipe one peck of ripe tomatoes, one cup of salt, one 
large onion. Slice and boil for an hour. Strain through 
a tine colander or sieve, and return to the kettle. One 
dessertspoonful of curry powder one dessertspoonful of 
black pepper, one teaspoonful of cii \une pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of allspice : now boil twei minutes, add mus- 
tard until of the consistency of pasi Boil a few minutes, 
stirring all the time. When cold, put into small jars as 
[)iekles, and seal. 

SWKET APPLE PICKLE. 

Mrs. S. Chrlf<tie. 

Two quarts of vinegar, three pounds of sugar, quarter 
of a pound of cinnamon, quarter of a pound of cloves, two 
gallons of apples. 

SWEKT TOMATO PICKLES. 

J\li'8. S. Christie. 

One of vinegar, quarter of a pound of cinnamon, (quar- 
ter of a pound of cloves, one peck of tomatoes, five cups 
of sugar. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. Tko8. Drummond, Kingston. 

One peck of tomatoes sliced, one dozen of onions sliced, 
put alternate layers of onions and tomatoes with salt 
30 



4G6 



The Canadian Economist. 



sprinkled between in a basin q.n(l let stand till next day, 
then drain oti'the w^ater : quarter of a pound of mustard, 
half an ounce of whole black pej)per, one ounce of whole 
cloves, one ounce of white mustard seed. Put alternate 
layers of tomatoes, onions, and spices ; cover with vine^^^ar 
and boil twenty minutes. I have found this a very good 
receipt. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

■ Mrs. Thos. Druinmond, Kingdon. 

One peck of tomatoes, half a pound of salt, six red 
peppers : boil one hour and strain through a sieve : half 
an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of cloves, one ounce 
each of the other spices, and two onions, ly U anotlier 
hour. When cold add a (juarter of a pound ot best mus- 
tard, and half a pint of vinegar. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Mrs. Tlios. Urummond, Kingston. 

Four (juarts of /ed currants, three pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar. Cloves, cinnamon, mace, ar d mtmcg to 
taste. After boiling together till the cnnants break, take 
the currants out and boil the juice slowly for an hour. 
Put into jais and eat with cold meat of any kind. 

INDIAN PICKLES. 

Mrs. Horsey. 

Six quarts of best vinegar, quarter of a pound of salt, 
quarter of a pound of root of ginger bruised, one ounce of 
mace, one tablesjtoonful of cayenne pepper, 1 ounce of 
white pepper, quartei" of a pound of mustard seed. Mix 
and boil, and when cold put in a jar and add two our.ees 
of flour of mustard, two ounces of turmeric powder mixed 
in a little cold vinegar. To this mixture, when cold, add 
your vegetables. A teaspoonful cf curry powder is an 
improvement. 



Tomato Catsup 



467 



TOMATO RELISH. 

Mitso Hunt, Boston, Masst. 

Slice one peck '>f <^reen tomatoes; eliop six green pep- 
pers, four onions, strew one teaspoonful of salt over them, 
and let them stand one night. In the morning drain off 
the water, nnd put them in a kettle with vinegar enough 
to cover them, one teacupful of sugar, one of grated horse- 
radish, a teaspoonful of cloves, allspice and cinnamon. 
Boil until soft, and pack in jars. 

SWKKT CUllKANT PICKLE. 

AHjs II ant, Boston, J^(.s'.s, 

Three pounds of currants (stalks off), three pounds of 
sugar, one pint of vinegar. Take one teasp(Kjnful of 
ground ctjves or cinnamon, nutmegs, allspice. •Boil 
gently one hour. 

SWEET PICKLED APPLES. 

Mrs. Leslie, K'uKj^ton. 

Three pounds of sugar, one i.>int of vinegar, one (piart 
of water, a few cl.jves, a small j)iece of mace and nutmeg, 
the spice to be enclosed in a bag. Wht]! this begins to 
boil, add seven pounds of apples, pared and (quartered. 
Boil until the fruit looks clear. Select apples which do 
not break readily. 

TOM.\Tn KETcnrp. 

Mrs. Leslie, Klv<jston. 

Take one peck of ripe tomatoes, slice them, sj»rinkle a 
little salt on each layer. Let them stand for twelve hours, 
then strain carefully to lemove all the seeds. For this 
quantity the spices, which should be whule, are half an 
ounce of cloves, half an ounce of black pepper, one red 
pepper. These enclosed in a nuislin bag ; half an ounce 



468 



The Canadian Economist. 



of mace broken np and put into the ketchup. Boil until 
quite thick. When cold, add one pint of white wine 
vinegar, and a quarter pound of mustard. 

MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Mrs. McGillivray. 

One hundred small cucumbers, two quarts of small 
onions, two f[uarts of string beans, two quarts of green 
tomatoes, two heads of cauliflower. The vegetables need 
to stand in salt and water over night. Drain out of that 
water in the morning. Cover with vinegar. Boil twenty 
minutes. Mix one quart of mustard and ten cents' worth 
of turmeric powder in one extra quart of vinegar abmit 
ten minutes before taking; off the tire. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. McGiUivvay. 

Half a bushel of tomatoes, peel them and strain them, 
then add one tablespoonful of ginger, one of cloves, two 
of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of red pepper, two-thirds of 
a cupful of salt, one teaspoonful of mustard, one pint of 
vinegar, a few onions, simmer slowly two or three hours. 

CHUTNEY AND QUIHI. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Eight ounces sharp apples, eight of tomatoes, eight of 
brown sugar, eight of raisins, four of red chillis, salt : mix 
all together, add three quarts of vinegar and one of lemon 
juice ; place a jar containing this composition on a stove 
or by the side of a fire, in a heat not less than 130°; stir 
twice a day for a month then strain but do not squeeze. 
Bottle the (piihi which is an excellent sauce for any kiml 
of fish or n eat hot and cold. Put the chutney in j)ois or 
jars ; use in sauces or gravies, or like mustard with coM 
meat or spread on grills. 



Pickled Plu7)is. 



4»69 



PICKLED ONIONS. 

Mrs. Parr, OHawa. 

Take small white onions, peel and put in salt and 
water over night, then scald in milk and water, half and 
half, and just let them come to a boil ; skim out in a col- 
ander to drain, and pour cold water over them, then put 
in bottles with a red pepper to each bottle, cover with 
cold vinegar and seal. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

Mrs. Parr, Ottaivi. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, boil one hour with six red 
peppers, then strain through a cloth to take out the seeds, 
tlien add one and a (quarter cupsful of salt, two small 
tablespoonsful of black pepper, two of ginger, two of all- 
spice, one sma)l spoonful ot mace, one of cloves and three 
large onions chopped fine ; boil another hour and when 
cold add hah' a pound of mustard, one small tablesj)Oonful 
of cayenne pepper, half a pint of vinegar, mix w-;il to- 
ijfether atid bottle tif^ht. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa. 

Scald the peaches to remove the skins ; to twelve pounds 
of fruit add four pounds of sugar, one (piart of vinegar, 
cinnamon and cloves to taste. 

PICKLED (blue) PLCMS. 

Mrs. R'Uj, Ottawa. 

Five pounds of plums, three pounds of sugar, three 
l)ints of good vinegar, one teaspoonful of cinnam;)n and 
ch)ves ground, in a muslin. Let all boil till the fruit is 
cooked, then skim it out and boil down the juice till it 

jellies. 



470 



Tlic Canadian Economist. 



SWEET APPLES PICKLED. 

il/r,s'. R<iy, Ottawa. 

Six pounds of a]>|)les (([iiartorcd and cored), throe pounds 
of sugar, one cpiart of vinegar. Spice with cloves. Cook 
till transparent. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Mr8. Ray, Ottawa. 

Five pounds of red currants, four pounds of sugar, one 
pint of ground ginger, two tablespoonsful of ground cloves 
and two tablespoonsful of cinnamon. Boil tvro hours or 
until quite thick. A nice sauce for cold meats. 

CHOWDER. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottmca. 

One gallon of finely chopped green tomatoes, four or 
five onioan , nnlt them over night, separate from the juice 
in the morning. Squeeze as dry as jjossible ; add one table- 
spoonful of ground pepper, one tablespoonful of allspice 
and cloves, four tablespoonsful of mustard, half a table- 
spoonful of giated horse-radish, two good green peppers 
choj^ped fine, one ounce of mustard seed. Mix all well and 
cover with vinegar. 

INDIA PICKLE. 

Mrs. [Hon. A) Vidal, Sarnia. 

One galhm of good vinegar, four ounces of curry powder, 
iouv ounces of tuiTueric, four ounces of mustard. Rub toge- 
ther, if approved, with half a pint of salad oil, it is a great 
improvement. Three ounces of ginger, half a pound of 
shalots, two ounces of garlic, four ])ounds of salt, four 
ounces of cayenne pepper, four ounces of mustard seed. Ltt 
it stand in ajar covered with a bladder, set in the [)ickle 
by the side ot the fire for three days, shaking often, The 



Tomato Catsup. 



471 



articles to be pickled such as encumbers, green tomatoes. 
French beans, young melons, kc, must all be parboiled in 
strong brine, strong enough to bear an e.f^^^, then dried and 
and put in the above pickle. Anything may be put in 
excepting red cabbage and walnut. 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. {Rev. A.) Scatty Owen Sound. 

Seven pounds of tomatoes ; after peeling use one quart 
of vinegai-, three pounds of sugar (brown sugar is best). 
Boil two and a half hours; then add half an ounce of 
cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and boil half an hour more. 

liOMP.AY CHUTNEY. 

]\frst. (Rev.) D. Wardrojy, Tcesiuater. 

Bruise in a mortar one half pound of red pepper, half a 
pound of onions, and half a pound of raisins stoned. Add 
to this twenty sour apples grated, a pound of brown sugar 
and half a pint of vinegar. Boil all together for tifteen 
minutes. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) D. Wardrope, Teeswater 

A peck of green tomatoes sliced thin, one and a lialf [XJcks 
of onions sliced thin, put in la3ers in a stone vessel with 
two small cupsful of salt, and let it stand over night, then 
drain and add to the tomatoes and onions three cpiarts of 
vinegar, four oun(?bs of white mustard seed, and half an 
ounce each of pepper, cloves, ginger and cinnamon gi'ound. 
Boil one and a half hours. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Walfoi'd, Reiifreiv. 

To one pail of tomatoes, (me quart of vinegai', six table- 
spoonsful of mustard, six tablespoonsful of salt, six table- 



472 



77^6 Canadian Economist. 



spoonsful of ungi'ouncl pepper, four tablespoonsful of all- 
spice, four tablespoonsful of cloves. Red pepper to suit 
taste. Cut up tomatoes and boil in tin vessel, strain 
through a colander. 

TOMATO CHOWDER. 

\ Mrs. Wafford, Renfreic. 

Slice one peck of green tomatoes with large onions) 
sprinkle salt over each layer. Let them remain over 
night ; next morning strain off the pickle, throw it away 
and put the tomatoes into a preserving pan. Cover thcin 
with vinegar, add two ounces each of allspice and peppers, 
one cupful of grated horse-radish. 

CHO\V-(JUO\V. 

Miss Young. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, sprinkled with salt, 
let them stand over night ; half a cupful of grated hoise- 
radish, four pep])ers, six onions, one pound of sugar, two 
tablespoonsful of cloves, two tablespoonsful of allspice, 
vincijar enouijh to cover. Boil until the tomatoes are 
tender. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Mif. Devar. 

To five pounds of lipe currants put four pounds of 
brown sugar, one pint of vinegar, two tables[)oonsful of 
ground cloves, two of cinnamon, boil gently two or three 
hours until it thickens. 

TOMATO PASTE. 

Miss Young. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, one teacupful of salt ; boil 
them until they will go easily through a sieve. Strain 
and retuin to the kettle, and add the following : one tea- 



Pickled CdbhiKje. 



473 



spoonful of ground cloves, one teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, one teaspoonful of curry powder, one small onion 
clio})ped very tine. Boil till quite thick, then add mustard 
to lorm a })aste. 

ONE WAY TO MAKE TOMATO CATSUP. 

Tke Bazaar. 

Slice the tomatoes and sprinkle them with salt to ex- 
tract the juice, stew it down until quite thick, and after 
straining through a colander ad<l sugar, a few cloves, and 
pepper, mace and vinegar to your taste ; bottle and wax 
up tight. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

(Common Sense in the Household. 

Pick the whitest and closest branches, cut into small 
sprays or clusters, plunge into a kettle of scalding brine, 
and boil three minutes, take them out and lay upon a 
sieve or cloth, sprinkle tliickly with salt, and when dry 
brush this off, cover with cold vinegar for two days' set- 
ting the jar in the sun, then pack carefully in stoneware 
jars, and pour over them scalding vinegar, seasoned thus : 
To one gallon allow a cupful of white sugar, a dozen 
blades of mace, a tablespoonful of celery seed, two dozen, 
white peppercorns and some bits of red pe])per pods, a 
tablespoonful of coriander seed, and the same of whole 
mustard ; boil five minutes, repeat the scalding once a 
week for three weeks, tie up and set away. Keep the 
cauliflowers under the vinegar by keeping a small plate 
on top. 

PICKLED CABBAGE (pURPLE). 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Quarter the cabbuige, lay in a wooden tray, sprinkle 
lightly with salt, and set in the cellar till next day; drain 
off' the brine, wipe dry, lay in the sun two hours and cover 



474 



The Canadian Economist. 



with cold vinegar foi* twelve hours ; prepare the pickle l»v 
seasoning enough vinegar to cover the cabbage with e(|ual 
quantities of mace, cloves, whole white peppers, a cu])ful 
of sugar to every gallon of vinegar and a teaspoonfiil of 
celery seed for eveiy pint; pack the cabbage in a st(»ne 
jar; boil the vinegar and spices five minutes and pour on 
hot, cover and set away in a cool, dry place. This will 
be ripe in si;t weeks. 

PICKLED lUIlTEIlNUTS AND WALNUTS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Gather them when soft enough to be pierced by a pin ; 
lay them in strong brine five days, changing this twice in 
the meantime, drain and wijie them with a coarse cloth ; 
pierce each by running a large needle through it, and lay 
in cold water for six hours. To each o-allon of vinegar 
allow a cupful of sugar, dozen each of whole cloves, and 
black peppercorns, half as nuich allspice and a dozen 
blades of mace ; boil five minutes, pack the nuts in small 
jars, and pour over them scalding hot. Repeat this twice 
within a week ; tie up and set away. 

CUCUMBER AND GHERKIN PICKLE. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Choose small cucumbers or gherkins for this p'lrpose; 
they are more tender and look better on the table. Re- 
ject all over a finger in length, and every one that is niis- 
sha] en or specked, however slightly. Pack in a stone 
jar or a wooden bucket, in laj'ers, strewing salt thickly 
between these ; cover the top layer out of sight with salt 
and pour on cold water enough to cover all. Lay a small 
plate or round board upon them, with a clean stone to 
keep it down. You may leave them in the brine for a 
week or a month, stirring u}) from the bottom every other 
day. If the longer time, V)e sure your salt and water is 
strong enough to bear up an egg. If you raise youi' own 



Sliced Cucmnher. 



475 



eucuinbers pick thoiii evtny day, anrl di-op them in the 

pickle. When yon are ready to pnt tlieni np throw away 

the hrine, with any cnennibers tliat may have softened 

uikIc'I' tlie process, and hiy tlie rest in cohl fresh water for 

twenty-four hours. Chan;j:e tlie water then for fresh and 

leave it for another day. Have a kettle ready lined with 

iircen vine leaves, and lay the pieklt^s evenly within it, 

>catterin<j^ ])owdere(l alum over the layers. A bit of alum 

las lar_<i;e as a pii^^eon's eg;; will be enoui^h for a two-<^all()n 

Ikettleful. Fill with cold watei", cover with vine leaves, 

I three deep; put a close lid or inverted pan over all and 

steam over a slow fiie five or six hours, not allowing the 

I water to boil. When the pickles are a fine green remove 

the leaves, nnd throw the cucumbers into very cold water. 

[Let them stand in it while you }>rcpare the vinegar. To 

one gallon allow a cupful of sugar, three dozen whole 

lilat'k peppers, the same of cloves, half as much allspice, 

Iniie dozen blades of mac-e ; boil five minutes. Put the 

cucumbers into a stone jar, and pour the vinegar over 

them scalding hot, cover closely. Two days afterwards 

scald the vinegar again and return to the pickles. Repeat 

tie process three times more at intervals of two, four, and 

[six (lays. Cover with a st(meware or wooden top ; tie 

htout cloth over this and kee]) in a cool dry place. They 

will be ready for eating in two months. Examine every 

|fc\v weeks. 

SLICED CUCUMRKR (VERY NICE). 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Two dozen larf]je cucundters, sliced and boiled in vincffar 
enough to cover them for one hour ; set aside in the hot 
vinegar. To each gallon of cold vinegar allow one pound 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one of ginger, 
me of black pepper, one of celery seed, one teasjioonful 
f mace, one of allspice, one of cloves, on(i table spoonfulof 
piiic sliced, a half teaspoonful of cayenne pepper ; put 



476 



Tlie Canadian Economist. 



in the cucumbers and stew two hours. Tlie pickle will bu 
ready for use so soon as it is cold. 

TO GREEN PICKLES. 

CasstlVs Dictionary/ of Cookery. 

Keep thetn in hot vinegar until they become so, and 
keep them closel}'^ covered down, or the evapoi-atiuii of 
tlie steam may injure the colour. To make pickles crisj), 
dissolve a very small piece of alum. A jiiece the size 
of a bean will be sufficient for a gallon of vinegar. 

SUMMER I'ICKLES FOR PRESENT USE. 

CasseWs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Cut equal quantities of young onions, sour apples, andi 
fresh cucumbers into thin slices. With these till a stone 
jar which will hold a quart of liquid. Shake in with the j 
vegetables a dessertspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful and 
a half of cayenne. Pour in four or five tablespoonsfulofi 
soy and as much vinegar as the jar will hold, and cover 
closely until wanted. If it is wished to make this picklt 
in the winter, tinely-minced celery may be substituted j 
for the cucumbers. The pickle can be used the day iti.s| 
made. 

PRALILLY. 

Cooleys lieceq)tH. 

White cabbages sliced, cauliflowers pulled to pieces, ani 
scalded radishes, topped and tailed French beans, celervj 
in three inch lengths, shoots of elder })eeled, clusters otj 
elder-fiowers unopeneci, all salted for two or three days,! 
then mixed with apples and cucumbers sliced, and a laij,'ej 
proportion of ginger, garlic, turmeric, long pepper, and 
mustard seed, as the pickle is expected to be very wanii.j 
The vinegar also must be the strongest that can be \m-\ 
cured, and just sutiicient to float the articles. Any othea 
vegetables may be used at pleasure. 



Herb Spirit. 



477 



?irKi.ES, WHOLKSOMKNKSS OF. 

CasseWn Dictioiun'j/ of Cookery. 

" Pickles," says Dr. Graham. " are merely vef,'etal)le re- 
cei)tacles for vinegar, but the vegetable, l)eing hardened 
l)y the acid, renders it somewhat difficidt of digestion, 
anil therefore pickles are not to be reconnnended. The 
pickled onion seems to be the most wholesome of this 
sort of condiment." 

soy. 

Miss B-icchcr. 

One pound of salt, two pounds of sugar, fried half an 
hour over a slow fire, then add three ))ints of boiling 
water, half a pint of essence of anchovies, a dozen of 
cloves, and some sweet herbs. Boil till the aalt dissolves, 
then strain and bottle it. 



.AFUSHROOM CATSUP. 

Miss Beech cr. 

Put the mushrooms in layers, with salt sprinkled over 
each layer, and let them stand four days. Then mash 
them fine, and to every quart add two-thirds of a tea- 
spoonful of black pepper, and boil it in a stone jar set in 
boiling water two hours. Strain it without scjueezing, 
boil the licjuor, let it stand to cool and settle, then bottle, 
[ cork and seal it and set it in a cool place. 

HERB SPIIUT. 

Miss Beecher. 

It is convenient sometimes to use herb s})irit instead of 

the herbs. It is made thus : take all the sweet herbs, as 

I thyme, marjoram, sweet basil, and summer savory, dry, 

pound, sift and steep in brandy for a fortnight, an ounce 

to half a pint. 



CHAPTER XXXir. 
rKESERVlNG AND CANNING FRUIT. 

UAHIMUUUY WINK. 

71/ /-.s'. R. Bldckburn, A\'w Edi nhinyh. 

ONE fj^allon of water, one gallon and a half of htM-ries. 
Wash the herries well in the watei'. Let tlnMii 
stand twelve hours, then strain ; add three pounds and a 
half of hrown suoar to the gallon. Set in an open vesst'l 
witli small pieces of toast spread with yeast ; let stand 
till fermentation ceases, strain every morning; when done 
worki' add a few raisins and hottle, or keep in stone 
jars. 

ARTIFICIAL IIOXHV. ' 

Mi)<s Ma(j(ji(' Ban ton, Bradford. 

Take of Havana sugar ten pounds, water three pounds, 
cream of tartai- forty grains, essence of peppermint, 
ten drops. Fiist dissolve the sugar over a slow tire ami 
skim, then dissolve the cream of tartar in a little wanii 
water and add with some stirring, then add the honey 
heated to a boiling poinf, ; add the pep])«rmint; stir for a 
few minutes and let it stand until cold, when it will be 
ready for use. 

RASPBERRY OR STHAWBERRY ACID. 

il/r.s'. Cowley. 

Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in one quart of | 
water, and pour it on tw^elve pounds of ripe fruit in a 



How to Preserve Tomatoes, Grapes, etc. 



479 



IT. 



lai'rt' .jn,r. Lot it huiikI twenty-four hours ; strain it from 
the Fruit witliout prcHsiiig, and to every ]»int of" juice put 
one and a liait' of white Huj^ar. Stir with a silver spoon 
until the su^ar is well dissolvcfl, let it stand for a day or 
two, tlien take otf the scum and hottle for use (not the 
scum) nicer and more wholesome than raspberry vinegar. 

PINE-ATPLE MARMALADK. 

Mvs. Donaldson. 

Peel and ijrate the pine apple, then weigh it, allowing 
U pound of the sugar to a pound of the grated fruit. Put 
the sugar with the pine a))ple, and let them stand for two 
or three liours, or until the sugar is dissolved, then put 
into a preserving kettle, and lioil for about twenty 
iniiuites, or until it looks clear. Keep in a close jar. 

grai'p: jelly. 

Mrs. G. A. Griev, Montreal. 

Boil the grapes, stems and all just as they come out of 
[the basket for an hour and a-lialf, putting in ])arely 

dioiigh water to kcej) the fru't from burning, then re- 
[inove the kettle and put the ccmtents in a tlamiel jelly- 

liag to strain. Squeezing the bag does not make tlie 
Isyrup run. Tlien to a pint of the liquid ))ut a pound 

nf sugar, put back on the stove again, let it come to a 
llioil, and boil for a short ten minutes, then skim it clear, 

and put it in small jars or glasses. The Delaware 
ma))es make a more delicious and delicate, though not so 

stiff, a jelly as the common purple grapes, Isabella or 
I Concord. 

now TO PRESERVE TOMATOES, GRAPES, PLUMS, ETC. 

Dr. G. M. Iliitchison. 

quart of ■ Make a large box as nearly air-tight as possible by pre- 
•uit in a ■paring the inside with strong paper ; put in movable racks 



f berries. 
Let tliem 
nds and a 
len ves.sel 

let stand 
vdien done 

in stone 



|e pounds, 
pperniint, 
tire and 
le warm 
le honey 
stir for a 
t will be 



480 



The Canadian Economist. 



I ti; 



mp/le of laths, on cleats nailed to the end ahout five inches 
apart ; on these racks place the fruit, only one layer deep, 
not using any injured Truit. Break some brimstone in 
small pieces, and place in a saucer, ignite the sulj)hiir 
thoroughly, so that all the surface will l>e in a flame. 
When done, place in the bottom of the box immediately, 
close the hox. tight, iind leave for two or three hours, 
larger fruit requiring a longer time. Remove the fruit 
and place in open-mouthed jars ; pear on them lukewarm 
water removing the rack, place the jars in the box, 
and repeat the operation with the sulphur same as before. 
Cover the jars with pai)er, to prevent the (hist getting in. 
Keep in a cool place. Tomatoes preserved in this way 
can be kei)t indefinitely. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Mrs. G. M. ]{ufehif*on. 

Cover the grapes with cold water, and put them to 
boil until the skins are quite soft ; strain them through a 
flannel bag until as clear as water. One pound of sugar 
to a pint of juice, then boil quickly for twenty or thirty 
minutes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Mrs. J. Leslie, Ottaiva. 

Allow equal weight of bitter oranges and fine loaf 
sugar. Wash the oranges, wipe them dry, and grate ofi' 
off any discoloured pait. Cut the rind in halves, and 
with a dessertspoon loosen it all round, to take ofi each 
of the halves entire. Take the core and seeds clean from 
the oranges, Jeaving the juice with the pulp. Put the 
peel into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and cover 
them closely with a cloth, undernea<^h the coves'. Let 
them boil for some hours, till so tender that the head of| 
a pin will press them easily, drain off the water and 
while they are hot, with a silver spoon scoop out all the ] 



Marmalade, 



481 



soft part, leaving the skins quite thin. Cut them into 
thin parings half an inch long, (larify the sugar, and 
l)()il to a candy heigl.t. Put in the parings, and in ten 
minutes add the juice and pulp, and boil all together till 
transparent. Part of the peel may be grated to heighten 
the colour, and a pound an<l a-half of sugar to a poun<l 
of oranges may be used. For those who do not care for 
the bitter oranges so much, it can easily be made with 
half and half Seville and sweet. 



KASPMEKliY VJNEGAIl. 

j\Ir{<. Leslie, (Jttaiva. 

Bruise a quart of fresh -gathered berries in a China 
basin. Pour over it a pint of good vinegai'. Cover it 
closely. Let it stand three days, and stir it daily; stiain 
it through a Haiinel bag ; let it dri[) as long as anything 
will come from it, but do not press it. To one pint of 
the liquor put one pound of ])ound(Mj loaf sugar. Boil it 
ten minutes and take; otf the fire. Skim as it lises ; when 
told, bottle and cork tightly. 

MARMALADE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) J. McEiven, IiujersoU. 

Allow an eijual weight of white sugar and Seville 
oianges ; to twelve oranges allow one pint of wat«!r. Peel 
the oranges carefully, remove a little of the white |)ith, 
?nd boil the rinds in water two hours, changing the water 
thiee times to take otf a little of the bitto" taste. Break 
the pul]> into small pieecs, take out all the pips, and cut 
the boiled rind into tine chi})s. Make; a syrup with tin; 
sugar and watei-, boil this well, skiiu it, and when clear 
put in the pulp and chips. Boil all together from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. Pour into pots, and when cold 
cover with paper biushed over with white of egg. 'I'he 
juice and grate<l rindi^f a lemon to every twelve oranges; 



482 



The Canadian Economist. 



added with tlie pulp and chips to the syrup are a great 
improvement to tliis marmalade. 

APPLES. 

The EconomU-al (\)ok Book. 

These make a very nice preserve. Pare them, cover 
them with water, and boil half an hour, slowly, 'i'lieii 
pour the apple-water on the sugar and boil till clear ami 
thick, skimming it eaiefully ; if you add lemons, have 
ready and lay in with the apples, and let them boil till the 
apples are tender and clear, but not till they break. When 
cold put theui in jjus. They look well cut in halves, pre- 
served with lemons or oianges, or alone, with a little of 
the essence of lemon. 

PKACHK-;. 

The Economical Cook Hvoh. 

If you preserve them whole they should be prociiicil 
before they are (|uite ripe. Pare them, and boil in the 
syrup gemtly until they are tender. If in (juarter, crack th(! 
])ips of half the peaches and boil in the syrup. Strain and 
cork in the usual way. Put \\\) in jars and glasses. Al- 
low a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. 

1»EARS. 

The Economical Cook Book. 

These look best, if of moderate size, preserved whole, 
pared with the stems on ; make a thin syrup and boil tlieiii 
tender. They will be sutHciently cooked in half an hour. 
If you wish them nice let them lie in the syrup two days 
Drain the syrup from the peai's, add more sugar; boil ten 
minutes, skim and put in the pears. Simmer them until 
they p'"e trans[)arent ; then take them out, stick a clove 
in the end of each, and lay in a jai- when cool. They luavj 
be Havoured with lemon. 



Gaffes. 



483 



a great 



11, cover 
. Then 
lear jukI 
►ns, have 
il till till' 
i. When 
Ives, jtiT- 
, littlf of 



procurcil 
oil in tho 
crack tlic 
train and 

uses. Al- 



bd wIidU', 

|l)oil them 

an houv. 

^\vo days. 

boil ten 

leni initi! 

Ik a clovi 

Vhcy may 



QUINCES. 

The Economical Cook Book. 

Pare and core into cjuarters. Boil until tender in a 
little water, turn them in an earthen vessel and let them 
rrtnain one <lay. Boil and strain the parings and .seeds 
which give a rich jelly liquid; to this add your sugar, 
clarify, and when hot lay in your fruit and scald it an 
hour gently. Skim it out, and boil the liquid until suffi- 
ciently thick, and pour over. Allow a pound of sugar to 
a pound of fruit. 

PLU.MS. 

IVie Evoaomical Cook Book. 

May be preserved nice with the skins on or off. Tf on 
they should be pricked at the top with a large needle ; if 
you take them off*, turn boiling water over them. Plums 
recjuire a pound and a half of sugar to a })ound of fruit. 
Prepare your .syrup thick an<l lay in your plums to sim- 
mer, not boil. Let them remain in a scalding state until 
cooked through ; at least two hours. Tlien skim out and 
hoil the liquor down about an hour. 

TO DRY rHERUIES AND I'LUM.S. 

T/ie Economical Cook Hook. 

Stone them and half dry them. Pack them in jars, 
strewing sugar l)etween each layer. 'I'hey are very nice 
in pies and otherwise. 

G.\(JES. 

Tlie Econoiiilcal Cook Bitot. 

Allow equal weights of* sugar and gages. Make as3'ru[) 
of white sugar and just water enough to cov«m' the plums. 
Boil the plums slowly in the syrup ten minutes, turn 
them into a dish, and let them remain four or five days ; 



484 



The Canadhin Economht. 



then boil tlieiii again till the syrup appears to have en- 
tered the phuns. Put tliem in a china jar, and in the 
course of a week turn the syrup fnjni them ; scald it, and 
tuiii it over them hot. 



CltANBKUKIKS. 

The Ecoiwmicdl Cook Book. 

For each peck of eranberries allow two })ounds and a 
lialf of brown sugar and a pint of molasses. Make tlic 
syrup of molasses, sugar, and a little water. When it boil- 
put in the cranberries, and let them boil till transparent. 
To make cranberry marmalade, boil the cranberries in 
just water enough to prevent their burning ; strain thorn 
wlien soft, and add to each pound a ptjund and a l»alf of 
brown sugar ; stew it over a shjw lire, stirring constantly 
till it becomes a thick jelly. 

(QUINCES WHOLE. 

Select the largest and fairest (piinces, as the poorest 
will answer for jelly, pare them and take out the cores, 
boil the (piinces in water till tender, take them out se}>a- 
rately on a platter, to each pound of quinces allow a i)omKl 
of sugar ; make the syrup, then boil the quinces in the 
syrup until clear. 

TO I'UKSKUVK (UIAN<^i:S. 

Mrti. Thos. McKai). 

Boil oranges in clear watei- until you can pass a straw 
througli the skins then clarify three-(juarters of a pound 
of sugar to a pound of oranges, and pour it ovei" the fruit 
when hot; let them stand one night, then boil tlieni in sy 
rup till they are clear and the syrup thick ; take thtin 
from the syiup and stiain it clear over them. 



Ttafiphprni Vmcffo y. 



485 



lO STEW I'lUINK^. 

Mrs. Thos. MiK,oi. 

Put a pound of prunes into a small stowpan, with four 
ounces of white suyar, a small stick of cinnamon and three 
cloves, cover with water; ])ut it to boil gently for tliree- 
(juarters of an liour or until the ])runos are ([uite stiff; 
then take them out, strain the syiup over them and serve 
cold. 

KKCIPE KOH cum? A NT WINK. 

Mli<s Rohcrhoii, Thorold. 

Strain the currants, which should be perfectly ripe; to 
each (piartof juice ])ut one quart of water and four pounds 
of su<;ar ; stir the wholo well together and let it stanil 
twenty-four hours without stirring; then skim and set it 
ill a cool place where it will ferment slowly; let it remain 
three or four days, and if it becomes clear it is fit to bottle. 

LEMON MAHMAT-ADE. 

Miss Evwu'liiif Tlioliipso)!, Ottmro. 

Two large a}))iles, tw(j lemons, two cupsful of white 
sugar, two nice fresh eggs, a small i)iece of butter. (Jrate 
the apj)le ar\d rind of lemons, then add the juice, sugar, 
('Ugs and buttei". Beat all well too-ether an«l boil ten 
minutes. 

IIASPHERRV VINK<iAH. 

Mifis Rohcrison, ThoroUl. 

Put two (juarts of fresh -gathered berries into a stone 
vessel an<l pour on them a (piart of vinegar, let it stand 
twenty-four hours, and then strain it through a sieve ; 
then pour the licpiid over two quarts of fresh raspberries, 
and let it again infuse for a day and then strain it a se- 
cond time ; allow a pound of loaf-sugar to '(;very pint of 
juice, break up the sugar and let it melt in the licpior, 



48(; 



Tim CiOiadian Economist. 



then put tlic wliole into a stoin* jar, cover it closely and 
set it into a jwt of boilino- water, which must be kept on 
a quick boil for an lioiir, take off all the scum and when 
cold bottle the vinei,';ii'. It will keep for years. 

(UK KANT .IKI.F.V. 

Voiiti;/ Liid'ics Journal. 

The currants should be ri]X' and freshly picked. i*ut 
them (jn the tire with only water enough to prevent burn- 
ing ; let them stew gently till they turn white; strain it 
half an hour, then put on spoonl'ul (m a plate and set 
on ice. If boibnl sufficiently it will stiffen in five minutes. 
U it does not stiffen, boil longer ; try it every five minutes. 
When d(me strain through a very fine -sieve or coarse 
muslin into glass jars. 

STKAWKKRHV .TAM. 

Yoiuif/ /.((dies Journa/. 

Take ripe strawberries; pick them, and to every pound 
allow one pound of loaf sugar and one (piartei- of a pint 
of cuiTant juice. Pound the sugar; pour the juice upon 
it. Boil the strawberries for twenty minutes, stirrinj/ 
well with a wooden spoon. Add the sugar and currant 
juice, and boil togetlier on a hot porcelain plate for half 
an hour, carefully removing with a spoon all the scnni 
as it rises. 

PKESERVED JELLIES AND JAMS. 

Yoitnq Ladies' Journal 

Fruits for preserving should be gatheretl in very dry 
weather, and should be as free from dust as possible. 
The usual proportion of sugar is one pound to every pound 
of fruit, but this quantity makes the jam too sweet for 
most tastes, and a lesser (]uantity will be sufficient if the 
fruit be well boiled before the suear is added. Jam should 



Gyee)} Grajy^'s Prcfierved. 



487 



Iti' kept in a dry, cool place, and if ])roperly made will 
(»nly require a small round of white paper, laid quite close, 
and to be tied down to exelude air and dust. If there be 
the least dam}) in the closet, dip the white paper in 
l»randy, tie them down as before, nnd look to them every 
two or three months. KoiJ them afresh on the !e;(st ap- 
pearance of mouldiness or ndldew. 

RHUKAR15 MATJMALADK. 

Yovw) Ladies JovviniJ. 

Peel five oral i^^es, taking away the rind and pips. Puf 
the pulp into the ))reserviii<j^-})an, with the peel, cut very 
small ; add five pounds of rhid)arb, cut small, and four 
))()unds of loaf sugar. Boil the whole two hours and the 
huit half an hour before addino" the suijfar. Three lemons 
instead of live oranges will make an agi-eeable change. 



API'I.E MARMALADK. 

Fam ily Friend. 

Peel and core two ounces of sub-acid apples, and put 
them in an enammelled saucepan with one pint of sweet 
cider and one pound of crushed sugar, and cook them by . 
a gentle heat three hours or longer, until the fruit is very 
soft, and then squeeze it through a colander and then 
through a sieve. If not sweet enough add powdered 
sugar to suit your taste, and put away in jars made air 
tight l)y a ])iece of wet bladder. It is delicious when 
eaten with cream or milk. 

OREEN GRAPES PRESERVED. 

Youug L<rdicf^' Journal. 

Pick them carefully, nnd reject any that are injured. 
Wash them, and to every pound <jf grapes allow three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar. Put the grapes into a pre- 
serving -pan^ then a layer of sugar. Boil on a moderate 



488 



Ihf Cdimdian KcoDotnist. 



tin.', stirriiijLJf it all tlic fcinu* to prevent its iMnnin;,^ and ns 
the grape-stones I'ise take thiMii out with a spoon, so tliat 
by the time the fruit is sufticiontly Ixnled, about one hour, 
the stones will all have been taken out. 



QUINCE MAKMAJ.ADK. 

Pare and (quarter the fruit ; put it in layers in a stone 
jug, with sugar sprinkled Ix^tween each layer, add a tea- 
cupfull of water and bake it in a cool oven. Have a 
(juantity of sugar equal in weiglit to tlie fruit. Allow 
one quart of v/ater to every four pounds. Boil the sugar 
and water together, skinuning it well. Wlnm the (piinccs 
are soft, add them with a quart of the juice which will he 
found in the jar. Boil them in the syru]), beating it 
with a spoon until the marmalade is quite smooth. 

OUSKRVATIONS OX I'RKHEIiVINTi. 

A very common discovery made by those who preserve 
fruits, kQ., is, that the preserve either ferments, grows 
mouldy, or becomes candied. Theses thiee effects arise 
from different causes; the first from insufficient boiling; 
the second from being kept in a damp place, assisted in 
'' some degree b}'' the first causes ; and the third from boiling 
too quickly and too long. Preserves of all kinds should 
be kept entirely secluded from the aii' and in a dry place. 
In ranging them on the shelves of a stor" closet, thev 
should not be suffei-od to come in contact with the wall. 
Moisture in winter and spring exudes from .some of the 
driest walls, and preserves invariably imbibe it, both in 
dampness and taste. It is necessary, occasionally to look 
at them, and if they have been attacked by mould, boil 
them up gently again. To prevent all risks, it is always 
as well to lay a brandy paper over the fruit before tying 
down. This may be ffenewed in the spring. Fruit jellies 
are made in the ratio of a quart of fruit to two pounds of 
sugar. They nmst not be boiled quick nor very long; 



To Pi'fmrvf Sfrav'hprr^pft. 



489 



|iracticp jind a yciu'ial disi'i^'tiou will 1»l' IuuihI the best 
ijuiilesto lei^ailate the oxact time, which must he atfectod 
more or less by local causes. 

IUSPHF.R«Y on STKAWr.i:i{l!V ACID .IKI.LV. 

Wurnes Krerif-dai/ Cooh'ry. 

'iV) make one (juart of jelly, take one hot tie of the syrup 
or ras[)herry aei<l, half an ounce of isinglass oi" half an 
ounce of ot.jatinc dissolved in half a pint of water; strain 
it off and add it to the syiup ; mix all well together ami 
|ioui- it into a jelly-mould. 

TOM AT< )ES PIIKSKUVKO. 

IW/nirs Evcrji-dxi) Cooker jf. 

One ]iound of sugar to eveiy pound of tomatoes, and a 
(|iiarter of a ])int of water to each pound, two lemons ; 
take the small plum-shaped yellow or red tomatoes, pour 
hoiling water over them and peel off the skins ; make the 
syrup of an e(pial weight of sugar and a quarter of a pint 
of water to each pound, set it over the tire ; when the 
sugar is dissolved and boiling hot put in the tomatoes, 
let them boil very gently and stir in two lemons boiled in 
water until the peels are tender, and cut into veiy thin 
slices ; let it boil until the fruit is clear throughout and 
the syrup rich ; then place the tomatoes on flat dishes 
and set them to become cold ; boil the syrup until vtny 
rich and thick, and then set it to cool and settle. Put 
the tomatoes into jars or pots, j^our the syrup over them. 
(Vner them and keep them in a dry place. 

To IMIESKHVE STRAWJU-iRRlKS. 

The Domesf'u: World. 

For bottling or preserving strawberries, except for jam 
they should be ripe, but not in the least soft. Make a 
syrup of a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit. The 



400 



TJtv. Cd/iiadian Ernvomi.'tf. 



sugar should be double letined, although letined suorm 
does very well ; the only diffeivnce is in the colour oi tin- 
])reserv(', which is not so briliant as when done with other 
than crushed or loaf suoar. 'J'o each pound of sugar ]iMt 
a teacujiful of water ; put it ovei- a gentle fii'e and stir it 
until it is all dissolved : when boiling hot })utni the fruit, 
having picked out every inijierfect berry; let them boil 
very gently in a covered kettle, until, by cutting one 
i)[)en, you lind it cookecl through ; that will ba kuown by 
its having the same coloui" throughout. Take them from 
tho syrup with a skinnner and s[)read them on flat dishes 
an<l let them remain till cold ; boil the syrup until quite 
thick, tlu'U let it cool and settle. J'ut the fruit into jars 
or pots and strain or pour the syrup cand'ully ovei", leav- 
ing the sediment which will be at the bottom of the pit- 
cher. The next day cover with several })apers wet with 
sugar boiled to candy. Set them in a cool, airy place. 

Strawberries keep pei-fectly well made with seven 
pounds of sugar to ten of fruit; theysnould be done as 
directed above, and the syrup cooked (piite thick. A pint 
of red-currant juice, and a pound of sugar for it to three 
pounds of strawberries, make the syrup very beautiful, 

*(JHKEN GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 

Family Friend, 

Boil one gallon of gooseberries in two rpiarts of water 
to a pulp, strain through a jellybag, and to every pint of 
juice put one pound of sugar. Boil until a dee]) red. 

PEACH JAM. 

I'lie Bazaar. 

Take fine soft peaches, yellow-fleslied ones make much 
the jH-ettiest jam, scald and mash them well. To one 'I 
pound of fruit, allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar, 
but do not put it in at once, letting the peaches get nearly 
done lirst. Boil for three hours, stirring all the time. 



Pr.(U'h Chipn. 



401 



Tliis is the most trviii;^^ ])res*'rve of all to make, on aoconnt 
(tf the incessant spitting" of the hot mass as it tliickens ; the 
Itt'st way is for tlie cook to 1>c prei)are(l witli a loni,^ wooden 
ladle for stirring, at least a yai"<l ]ojin\ also to have the 
li;iti(ls fj^lovt^d, and a wet towel wrai)]ied round the ri^dit 
arm. He caiefid, too, to keep the fire steady, hut rather 
low. It would not seem worth while to take so mueh 
trouhle, hut for a preserve so jjjenerally liked, and the jam 
when iiuK'" tied up closely in small jars, an<l ])reviously 
covered with papers, will keep for many years. 

imni:aim'i.k .ikli.v. 

TIte Bdiiitr. 

(Jhoj) up two cansful of fresh ))inca|)|)le, an<l pour on it 
two ([iiarts of hoilin^- water. Add four teacupsful of 
white sugar, and the juice of two lemons ; adtl a shilling 
box of gelatine to every three quai'ts ot water. Strain 
through a flannel hag, and ])ut into jelly moulds. 

I'KACH (HIPS. 

Tlic Ihi'.utti'. 

Twelve pounds of peaches, six pounds of sugar. Cut 
the peaches in slices. Make a syru)>, and simmer them 
over the fii'e until tliey look ch^ar ; then take out and lay 
on dishes to drv. Set the dishes in the sun, and when 
they arc half (h'ied, sift granulated white sugar over them, 
and turn them. Do this frequsntly, until they are dried 
enough to he packed away *in jars, in alternate layers of 
[lowdered sugar. The gi'cat liindi-ance to this process 
usually is met with in the attacks of bees, which are ex- 
pessively fond of this sweet meat, and make great depre- 
dations if the chance is allowed them. The best way to 
guard against their attacks, is to provide yourself with 
spreads of thin game or mosquito net, and cover the 
<lishes carefully in the first instance, seeing that tlie gauze 
does not touch the fiuit, which may be managed by draw- 



492 



TJta Cnnadian Erovomif^f. 



ing it li<,'lit over tlic rim of tlic dishes. A liot .sun will 
dry chips siitHciciitIv in two or tlirco days. 

TO IMIESKIIVK QUINX'ES. 

Pare and cort' tlicni nicolv, and have some whole and 
some cut in larj^je slices; j)ut in a kettle, an<l boil until 
you can pass a straw easily tlnou^li tliem ; then puttlicni 
on dishes to cool, 'I'ake some of tlie water in wliich tliey 
were boiled, nwik<! a syru]) of one pound of suj^jar to oik; 
pound of fruit; boil it, and when claiiHed, ])ut in the f'niit. 
(-over for a while with a lar^^e ])late (it makes them li^^'lit 
coh)ured), and let them boil slowly' until they are clear. 
Every now and then take thoni out of the kettle, and lav 
them singly on <lishes to cool a little, and then put tlieiii 
back to cook more. This process is suitable foi- preserv- 
ing ])eai-s and |)eaches likewise. 

now TO (ooK citAXiUMJinKS. 

Fit 1)1 ill/ Fi'iriid. 

Put them with only water enough to jn-event burning, 
in a tinned saucepan and stew until, by stirring, the wliulc 
becomes a homogenous mass, with no s(;mblanc«' of whole 
berries, and then add clarified syrup, })revi()usly prepaicd, 
and stir a few^ minutes while boiling ; when cold the 
cranberries will be found to have become a most delicious 
jelly. 

CANNED PLUMS. 

Conimoi} Scrisp in the Hoaseliohl. 

Prick with a needle to i)revent bursting ; prepare a 
syrup, allowing a gill of pure water to a (piarter of a 
pouml of sugar, to every three quarts of fruit; when the 
sugar is dissolved and the watei- blood-warm, put in the 
plums ; heat slowly to a boil, let them boil five minutes, 



Citron Melon Preticrrp. 



493 



nut last or they will break, badly, fill up the jars with 
phiins, jKjur in the scaMiii*,' syruj) until it runs down the 
sides and seal. (Jreen gaji^es are very W\w put up in this 
way ; also <lauiHons tor pies. 

CANNKD TOMATOKS. 

Coinmon Scnae in ihe IhniKrhold. 

Pour boiliuLif water over the tomatoes to loosen the 
skins, reuiove these, drain ofi' all the juice that will eoiue 
uway without pressing hard, put them into a kettle and 
lieat slowly to a boil ; your tomatoes will look much nicer 
if you remove all the hard parts befon; putting them on 
the tire, and rub the pulp soft with your hands, boil ten 
minutes, dij) out the surplus li(|uid, pour the-tomatoes 
Itoiling hot into the cans, and seal ; keej) in a cool dark 
place. 

CANNED TOMATMKS AND COKN. 

Common Sense In the HonHrliohl. 

Boil the corn on the eob, when it is in nice ordei- for 
roasting, twenty minutes over a good tire an<l cut off' wldle 
hot ; have your tomatoes skinned and rubbed to a smooth 
pulp; put in two measures of them for every (me of the 
cut corn, salt as for the table and brinu" to a hard boil. 
Can quickly and set away in a cool dark place. 

CITRON MELON I'KKSKHVK. 



il//.s.s Beet lie 



r. 



Two fresh lemons to a pound of citron ; let the sugar 
he equal in weight to the lemon an<l citron ; take out the 
])ulp of the citron and cut it in thin slices and boil it in 
fair water till tender, take it out and b(»il the lemon in 
the water about twenty mirnites, take out the lemon, add 
the sugar and if necessary a little more wattM-, let it boil, 
when clear add the melon and ht it boil a few miinites. 



494 



The Canadian Economist. 



CHEURIKS. 

Mm Beech er. 

Take out the stones ; to a pound of fruit allow a jxjuiid 
of sugar, put a layer of fruit on the bottom of the pi-eserv- 
ing kettle, then a layer of sugar, and continue thus till all 
are put in, boil till clear, put them in bottles hot and seal 
them ; keep them in dry sand. 

(QUINCE MAKMALADK. 

Miss Beecher. 

Rub the ([uinces with a cloth, cut then) in quarters, put 
them on the fire with a little water and stew them till 
they are sufficiently tender to rub them through a sieve; 
when strained put a pound of brown sugar to a pound of 
the pulp, set it on the fire and let it cook slowly ; to as 
certain when it is done, take out a little 'und let it get 
cokl, and if it cuts smoothly it is done. Crab apple mai- 
nialade is uiade in tlie same way. Crab-apple jelly is 
made like (juince jelly. 

WHITE oil (illEKN I'LIM. 

Miss Beechei: 

Put each one into boiling water and rub otf the skin; 
allow a poumi (»f fruit to a pound of sugar ; make a syrii}* 
of sugar and water ; boil the fruit in the syrup twenty 
minutes, let the s^'iup be cold befoie you pour it over the 
fruit ; if you do not wish to take oft' tlie skins, prick thciii, 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 
CANDY. 



CARAMKIS. 

Miss Mafju'ie Biinton, Brail/ord, J\t. 

ONE pound and a half of lnown sugar, tlnee parts of 
a oiipful of milk, quarter of a pound of Baker's 
chocolate, butter the size of an egg. Stir constantly ; 
when it bf^gins to thicken, try by drop))inga little in cold 
water until it hardens, put on butter-plates, and befoi'e 
it is cold cut it in s([uares, 

VINEGAR CANDV. 

Miss Muijg'ie Bnnto)i, BradfurJ, Fa. 

Two jupsful of sugar, one cupful of good cider viiu'gar, 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Boil untd well 
•lone. Any (puintity can be made, but be sure and have 
twice as much suiiHr as vineirar. 

HOME-MADK (REAM CANUV. 

Miss M(((ji/'t«' Bunton, Bradford, Pk. 

To a coffeecii))fnl of white sugai-, add two tablcspooiis- 
fid of water and boil without stirring, in a bright tin pun 
until it will crisp in water like molas.ses candy; just be- 
fore it is done, put in a teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon, 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of cieam of tartar. When done, 
I our in a. buttered pan, and when cool enough to handle, 



496 



The Canadian Economist 



work it as you would molasses candy, until it is perfectly 
white. 

NUr (ANDY. 

Two cupst'ul of white su<^ar, one cupful of water, two 
tablespoonsful of vinegar. Uoil half an h(jur, and just 
before tikiug off the stove, add the kernels of any kind 
of luits you prefer, chopped. 

COCOANUT DllOl'S. 

Mi^8 Mwjijh' Bunion, Bradford, P. A. 

Beat the whites of two e^gs very thick with pulverized 
sugar, add one half of a half-pound package of co(toaniit 
drops, on white and buttered paper, and set in the oven 
to dry. 

PRUNELLA imoPS. 

Mrx. Cruchd, Monfmil. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, one cu]»fiil 
of nulk, two eggs, t)ue teas[)oonful of soda, two teaspooii- 
ful of cream of tartar, flour to make it stiff* enough to 
drop from the spoon ; flavour with vanilla, and bake iu 
a quick oven. 

(ANDY. 

Miss Ettie Duv'k'. 

Two cupsful of white sugar, or maple sugar,<>ne cupful of 
thick cream. Boil together until thick. Add almonds 
and walnuts and pour into a buttered platter. 

TREACLE CANDY. 
il/i.s.s Elliott, (Jve/ph. 

Take three (puirts of tht; best treacle. Put it into a 
thick block-tin kettle, and stir in a ))ound and a half of 
the best and cleanest brown sugar. Boil slowly and skiui 



Chocolate Carameh, 



497 



it well, stirring it always after skimming, and taking care 
it does not burn. Prepare the grated rind and tlie juice 
of three large lemons or oranges, and stir them in after 
tiie molasses and sugar have boiled long enough to be- 
come very thick. Continue to boil and stir till it will 
l)()il no longer and the spoon will no longer move. Try 
some in a saucer and let it get cohl. If it is brittle it is 
<lone. Then take it from the tire, and tiansfer it imme- 
diately to shallow, square tin pans, that have been well 
greased with nice fresh butter or sweet oil. Spread evenly 
iind set it to cool. 

CARAMEL. 

Mrs. Urquhart, Fcterhorou(jh. 

Quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of 
chocolate, one pound and a half of white sugar, one cup- 
ful of milk, vanilla flavouring; melt the butter, stir in 
the other ingredients and keep stirring while the mixture 
boils. Boil twenty minutes or more according to degree 
of heat. 

EVERTON TOFFY. 

Mrs._ (Rev. K.) McLennan, P.E.I. 

Three pounds of sugar, one cupful of molasses, half a 
ciq^ful of water, half a pound of butter. 

KISSES. 

Miss Kemp. 

Beat the whites of nine eggs to a stiff froth ; mix with 
fifteen tablespoonful of pulverized sugar, six dnps of 
lemon, drop on paper and sift sugar over them. 

CHOCOLATE ( ARAM ELS. 

Miss Kemp. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one and a 
quarter cupsful of water. When boiled mix in one half 
32 



498 



Tlic CanacUav Kconomlst. 



cupful of chocolate, buttei- the. size of a hickory ftut; 
flavour with vanilhi. Pour them in buttered drippinir- 
pans. cut in squares and eat when cold. 

TOFFY. 

Mii^s Bohnisoii, Thorohl. 

One pound of brown sugar, <|uarter of a pound of butter, 
a little water ; flavour with lemon and boil over an hour; 
butter the plate you put it on anrl make it in thin layers. 

CREAM (ANDY. 

Mrs Thompson, Foinf Fortune. 

Two cupsful of white sugar to one cupful of thick 
cream ; boil for ten minutes. Take from the stove and 
pour(iuickly into a meat platter. Almonds added increase 
the thickness of it. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS, 

Miss Junor, St. Mary's. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one half cupful of water, boil ten 
minutes ; take from the fire and beat until cool. Flavour 
with vanilla, roll into balls. Three ounces of chocolate 
in a saucer steamed over the tea-kettle. Roll the balls 
in it. 

FRUIT DROPS OF LEMON JUICE. 

Godeys Bool: 

Mix a quantity of lemon juice with sifted sugar, nearly 
thick enough for a spoon to stand upright in. Put it in 
a deep pan >^nd make it quite hot on the fire, stirring it 
all the time, but do not let it boil or even come to a boil ; 
then mix in a small quantity more of sugar ; warm it, 
thenchalk the spout of the pan and with a small stick 
drop it on tin or pewter plates, in small drops. When cold, 
take them off' the ]ilates, and put them in the stove or sieve 
to dry. 



Barley Svfjar 



499 



COCOA-NUT T>H01'S. 

M'ltis Ellz(( Wfiite, HcmUtoii. 
The wliite of one egg, one cupful of sugar, one grated 



cocoa-nut. Beat all toirether and drop in pvraniidsha 



on £f) 



eased 



I pes 



paper 



(MN(!K1{ DKors A (JQOf) STOMACHIC. 



Goileifs Bool'. 

Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar 
with a little sugar to a paste. Then nnx one ounce of 
powder of white ginger, with one pound of loaf sugar. 
Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil together to a 
candy, and drop it on paper as for lemon drop. 

PEIM'ERMINT DROPS. 

Godeys Bool'. 

Pound and sift four ounces of double refined sugar 
Beat it with the whites of two e^fgri, till perfectly smooth 
then add sixty drops of oil of peppermint ; beat it well 
and drop on white paper as abo\'e, and <lry at a distance 
from the fire. 

lURLEY SUGAR. 

Godeys Bool'. 

Dissolve a pound and a half of lump sugar in half a 
pint of water with the white of half an egg ; when it is 
at candy height add a teaspoonful of strained lemon juice 
and boil it (pdckly till it recovers its previous condition. 
Pour it over a marble slab, and when it becomes stitf, cut 
it into strips and twist it. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 
PICKLING BRINP:. 

SPICED HEEF FOIl DUYINCJ. 

Mrs. R. Blackburn, New Kd'mhurgh. 

TAKE a round of beef and pull it to pieces, with the 
hand, do not cut it ; roll <;ach piece in coarse salt ; 
place it in an earthen dish for three or four days, re- 
])eating the salting each day. Take one half of an ounce 
of cloves, one half of an ounce of anniionia, one quarter 
of an ounce of sugar ; mix all well together, and rub 
each piece of meat well with the spices. Continue rub- 
bing once a day until all the spice is used up, then let it 
stand three or four days. After which, hang in a dry 
warm place ; it will be ready for use in two weeks ; the 
small pieces, sooner ; cut in thin slices, it is a nice relisli 
for tea. 

TO niEPARE A HOUND OF BEEF FOR HAKINQ. 

Mr,<. Thos. McKnij. 

Let it lie one night in common salt and saltpetre, and 
rub it very well. Then take a small (juantity of allspice, 
mace, nutmeg, and black pepper ground very fine, rub 
one half on the beef at first, and the remainder a little 
every day for nine days, when it will be fit for baking. 
The quantity of spice depends on the size of the piece of 
beef. Light brown sugar nmst be mixed with the 
saltpetre and spice. The beef must be larded with 
some suet previous to baking it. 






Hamhai'f) Fide for Meat. 



501 



with the 
\rse salt ; 
days, re- 
an ounce 
B quarter 
and rub 
ue rub- 
en let it 
n a dry 
iks ; the 
ce relish 

iO. 



;trc, and 
allspice, 

ine, rub 

• a little 

baking. 

piece of 

r\th the 

led with 



() 



PICKLE FOR HAMS. 

Mrs. {Rev. Dr.) Baine-H, Perth. 

To a full l)arrel of hams, three ounces of saltpetre, 
one and a half pounds of sugar or molasses, one half-pound 
f ground cloves, one half-pound of allspice, a pound of 
pepper, one and a half pounds of coarse salt to every gal- 
lon of water. Put the ingredients in with cold water 
and boil the whole for half an hour, and pour it on the 
hams hot or cold, as you think best. RuV) the hams well 
with a little salt, and let them lie for twenty four hours 
to draw out the good, before putting them on the pickle. 
Leave them in the pickle for six weeks. 

DRIED MEAT. 

J/yN Thomas McKay. 

Beef, veal, venison and mutton ; rub on as much salt as 
will stick. Pack tightly all in the same ^ask. It may 
remain three or four weeks or longer. 

A GOOD MODE OF SMOKIN(i MEAT. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Get a sugar hogshead, knock out the bottom, and set 
over a smoking tire of corn-cobs, walnut, maple or hick- 
ory, and a consideraljle share of dried dung. Cover it 
with boards. 

IIAMHURG PICKLE FOR MEAT. 

Mrs {Her. Dr.) Wardropc, (xu.eiph. 

To foiu" gallons of water add four pounds of salt, four 
ounces of saltpetre, one pound of very brown sugar, one 
tal)lesp()onful of ground black pepper, one of white, one 
of alspice, one of ginger, one half of cloves, one teaspoon- 
ful of red pep|)er. Hoil altogether and skim, when coM 
pour it o\iiv the Hjeat. 



502 



Tlie Canadian Economist. 



TO SPICE A ROUND OF BEEF. 

Mrs. (Jieu. Dr.) Wanlropc, Guelph. 

Two pounds of salt, one pound of brown sugar, one 
half ounce of ground cloves, one ounce .of black pepper, 
one ounce of white pepper, one teaspoonful of cayenne 
])epper, one half ounce of saltpetre. Mix all well together 
and rub well into the roun<l, then put it into your 
tub and let it lie for three or four days. Then turn 
it every dny for a month or six weeks. 

CUKlNt; J'ORK. 

Mrs. McTdfjfjart, New Edinhuiyh. 

Nine pounds of f-alt, four pounds of sugar, two ounces 
of saltpetre, one ounce of soda, six gallons of water. Let 
the pork remain two months at the least. 

TO PRtSERVK SxMOKED MEATS. 

Mrs McTagijart, NfAu Edinlmrgh. 

Take ground black ])('p[)er, the finer the better; wasli 
all mould or soil oft' from the hams or beef, and while they 
are damp rub them thoroughly with the pepper. Two 
pounds of pepper will kei'j) thirty pounds of meat frei' 
from Hies or insects of ail kinds. After beini^thus treated 
it can remain in the smoke-house or wood-house and not 
a fly will approach it. It also improves the flavour of the 
meat. 

riCKMNG 15EEF. 

Family Friend. 

The Yorkshire hunnr \)eef has lonji" been deservedly 
famous, and is thus easily prepared. (Jut in two the rilis 
or a round of beef or even a tine; thick flank — about 
twenty pounds weight of either foi- example. Finely beat 
in a moi'tar for this (juantity a half pound of bay salt. 



Ti) Care, Bacon. 



503 



one (juarter pound each of saltpetre ami fsal-prunella and 
two handsful of juniper berries; mix tlu^m with three 
pounds of common salt, and one pound of coarse sugar, 
and thorougldy rub the beef all over for a considerable 
time. Let it lie in a good salting pan and rub it well 
with the piclke once a day for at least a fortnight, carefully 
turning it every time. Then take it out, and after drying 
it well with a (X)arse cloth hang it up to the ceiling of a 
a warm kitchen, or in a chimney corner where only a 
moderate fire is kept till it becomes }>roperly dried. It 
may be either boile«l as wanted or cut into rashers and 
broiled, but in the latter case it will always eat much 
better if previously dipped into boiling water. 

TO I'ICKLK TONCUJKS. 

The Bazaar. 

Cut off the root but leave a little of the kernel and fat. 
Sprinkle on some salt and let it drain from the brine 
until the next day. Then for each tongue mix a large 
liandful of salt and a tablespoonful of saltpetre ; rub it 
well in and do so every day. In a week add a little more 
salt. If rul)bed every day a tongue will be i"eady in a 
Keej) it afterwards in the tub of beef brine. 



fortnight 



To ('\5\\^ BACON. 

The Ba:aar. 

(^ut up the pork the day after it is killed. Use Liver- 
pool salt and rub every })iece well on the skin. To each 
joint of meat take a dessertspoonful of saltpetre, and rub 
it on the flesh ; then rub all over again with salt and pack 
away in barrels, with the skin downward. Let it remain 
tive or six weeks, according to the temperature of the 
weather, for if freezing cold, the salt will not strike in so 
well as under other conditions. Hub in also a little ])lack 
pepper, pounded and mixed with sugar. Have ready dry 



504 



The Canadian Economist. 



ashes from hickory wood. Take the pork out of the tubs 
or boxes in which it has lain for salting, scrape off the salt 
and rul) the ashes on. Hang it up and make good smoke 
every morning, taking care never to let the meat get 
heated. Smoke for some weeks. In March, wrap each 
ham in a newspaper, and then put it into a bag to hang 
up for good. This insures safety from skippers. 

TO SPICE A ROUND OF CORNED BEKF. 

The Bazaar. 

Take a strong twine string and tie it tightly around 
the round, to keep it in good shape. Then stick it well 
on both sides with cloves, squeezing them in as far as 
possible ; rub it also well with three tablespoonsful of 
pounded saltpetre, and then with plenty of fine salt. 
Lay it in a large wooden tray or round vessel that is light, 
and every other day turn it and rub well into it the brine 
which makes from it. In t.?n days, if properly attended 
to, it will be fit for use. 

bullock's liver. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Cut the liver in scores, and salt it with two pounds of 
salt for a fortnight, then let it dry for three days, then 
well rub in two ounces of several kinds of spices, accord- 
ing to your judgment, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped 
very line, also a good seasoning of onions and shalots, 
then hang it in a dry cellar for a time, and then put it in 
a bag for use. A small piece is sufficient to make gravy 
for ducks and hash. It will keep many months, and be 
useful in the summer. 



the tubs 
' the salt 
[1 smoke 
leat gj't 
rap eaclj 
to haiiir 




CHAPTSR XXXV. 
WASHING AND (LKAMNO. 



r around 
k it well 
as far as 
)nsf ul of 
ine salt. 
b is light, 
,he brine 
ittended 



iunds of 
-^s, then 
laccord- 
jhopped 
jhalots, 
it it in 
gravy 
land bo 



WASHINC; CFOTHES. 

Mvf. Broiufh, Ottxnva. 

rp^WO poiuids of soap is reduced with a little water to a 
I pulp, which, having been slightly wanne<l, is cooled 
in ton gallons of water, to whicli is added two spoonsful of 
iunnionia and one tablespoonful of turpentine. Then the 
mixture is agitated. The water is kept at a temperature 
which may be borne by the haml. in this solution the 
white clothes are put and left two hours before washing 
them with soap, taking care, in the meantime, to cover 
the tub. The solution may be warmed again and used 
once more, but it will be necessary to add half a spoonful 
of turpentine and another of ammonia. Ontje washed 
with soap, the clothes are put in hot water and then blued. 
This process, it is obvious, saves mucli tinie, labour and 
fuel, while it gives to the clothes a whiteness much supe- 
rior to that obtained by any other process, or by the de- 
structive use of the wash-board. 

HARD SOAP. 

Mr<<. B(ing)^, Ottawa. 

Three pounds of soda (washing) three pounds of grease, 
one and a half pounds of lime, two gallons of water, boil 
the soda and lime in the water for a few minutes, take it 
off the fire and let it settle. Pour off the clear liquid, and 
to it add the giease and four ounces of rosin. Boil till of 



500 



The Canadian Economist. 



the consistency of a thick honey, Take ort'tlie tire, ])nnr 
in a shallow pan to cool, and wiien cohl, cut in cakes ami 
put it to dry. 

VVASIIINCJ FHUD. 

.!//•>•, Wni. M. nafch}.so)i. 

One jiound of sal soda, half a pound of stone lime, one 
ounce of horax. Put it into a ]»ot with five ijuarts of soft 
water. Boil tifteen niiinites, let it cool, then pour ort'tlm 
clear. Put it in a jar and cork. 

IIKCU'E Foil |{I-EACHIN(} COTTOX. 

il/yx. Wni. M. Hatchlson. 

One pound of tlie chloride of lime to ten gallons of 
water. Soak the cotton overnight in pure water; wrii)<; 
it out and put in the lime water. Di.ssolve the lime in 
hot water and strain it. Let the cotton remain half an 
hour, stirring it occasionally. This gradually will bleach 
fifty yards. 

WASHING BLUE. 

Mys. Wni. M. UntchUon. 

Two ounces Prussian blue, two ounces oxalic acid, two 
(piarts of water. Mix all well together. Bottle for use. 

POISON — SALTS OF LKMON Foil EXTR.\CTL\G IRON-MOULD. 

Mrx. Wni. M. Hatchlson. 

Two ounces of cream of taitai", two ounces of salts of 
sorel mixed well together. 

TO RKMOVF FRUIT STAINS FROM LINEN. 

Mrs. Broiajh, (Hfaiva. 

Rul) the part on each side witli yellow soap, then tic 
up a piece of pearlash in the cloth and soak it well in hot 
watei-, or boil an<l afterwards expose the stain to the sun. 



7'<> Clean liUick Lace. 



507 



ECONOMICAL SOAP. 

Mrs. White, Brai^Jonl,Pa. 

TIk! juMition of tluoe qiiart(M*s of an ounce of borax to 
;i |)oiin<l of soap nu'ltod in without l)oilin«r, makes a sav- 
ing of oriL'-lialf cost of wash and thiee-fourtlis tlic hibour 
of washir)g, and improves tlie whiteness of tlie fabrics, 
besides the more caustic effect is removed, and the hands 
are left witli a peculiar soft and silky feeling, leaving 
iiotliing more to be desired by the mo.'-t ambitious and 
c'conomicnl washer, 

sorr SOAP. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One box of concentrated lye, four pounds of good fat, 
otherwise five pounds, half potful of water, boil tw(j hours. 
I*ut in a banel and throw a boilerful of boiling water 
water over it. There should be five gallons altogether. 

TO IIKMOVK GUEASK SPOTS. 

Mrs. Whlti', BradfonJ Pa. 

To remove paint or grease spots from garments, mix 
four tablespoonsful of alcohol witli a tablespoonful of salt. 
Shake the whole well together, and apply with a sponge 
or brush 

TO CLKAN ('AU1»KTS. 

Youtaj L(nl'n'>i Journal. 

A solution of ammonia and water, hikewarm, will, if 
well rubbed in carpets, take out all stains. Take one part 
of ammonia and three parts of water. 

TO CLEAN ULACK LACE, 

Voung Lad let-' Journal. 

Take the lace and wipe oft'all the dust carefully with a 
cambric handkercliief; then pin it on a board, inserting a 



508 



The Canadian Economist. 



pin in each projecting point of lace. Wash it all over 
with table beer, and do not remove the pins until it ix 
perfectly dry. It will look fresh and new. 

TO CLEAN CHINA. 

Family Friend. 

China is best cleaned, when very dirt}>, with finely 
powdered fuller'.- earth and warm water, afterwards 
rinsing it well in clean water. A little soft soap may lu' 
added to the water, instead of fuller's earth. The same 
plan is recommended for cleaning glass. 



KID GLOVES. 

Jl/r.s. White Bradford, Pa. 

Cream of tartar rubbed upon soiled white kid gloves 
cleanses them well. 

LINEN. 

Youn<) Ladies Journal. 

A tablespoonful of black pepper put in the first water 
in which grey and buti' linens are washed will keep them 
from spotting. It will also generally keep the colours of 
black or coloured cambrics or muslins from running, and 
does not harden the water. 

TO TAKE OUT SPOTS OK PITCH, ETC. 

YitniHj Liuiies Journal. 

To take out spots of tar, pitch, or turpentine from linen, 
.silks, or woollens, scrape ott'as nmch as you possibly can ; 
afterwards moisten the places with sala»^ oil, and let it 
remain for a day. If cotton goods, they should then '•(' 
thoroughly washed in strong warm soap-suds ; or, if silk 
or woollen, apply some ether or spirits of wine to remove 
the grease. 






iJS.^ trit — 



Sfarchi,v;j Cuffs and Collars. 



509 



all over 
itil it i,s 



1 finely 

erwaids 

may be 

lie .saiiio 



gloves 



water 

them 

ours of 

";, aii<l 



linen, 

y can ; 

let it 

en be 

lif «ilk 

U)OVt.' 



TO WASH NEW ULACK WOMSTED STOCKINGS. 

Youpf/ Ladm' o\m.rnal. 

Let them be soaked ail niiiht and then washed in hot 
suds with a tal)lespoonfui of ox o-all to half a pint of 
water. Rinse till no colour comes out. Tui'n on the 
wrong side. 

TO TAKE INK STAINS OUT OF PAINT. 

Young Ladles' Journal. 

Wash the spot with a cloth dipped in oxalic acid, in 
a few minutes wipe it off with a clean towel and cold 
water, and the spot will have disappeared. 

TO CLEAN HAIIl-BRrsHKS. 

Youmj Ladies Journal. 

A dessertspoonful of hartshorn to a quart of water in a 
wash-hand hasin. Dip in the hair of the brushes and 
rub thein together until clean. Then rinse well with cold 
water; rub drv with a towel, and stand uj. right at an 
open window. 

STAIICHINCJ CUFFS AND COLLARS. 

Godeys Book. 

After washing and rinsing them, let them dry as i{ for 
ironing. IJaving made some starch a little thicker than 
cream, put them in, wring them out again, let them dry 
before the fire until they are fit for ironing, roll them in 
a cloth and iron. To give them a good gloss, take the 
end of a wax candle and stir it through the starch when 
([uite hot, and do not let the iron be too hot. A little salt 
put into the starch when hot will prevent the iron from 
sticking, and some soaj) rubbed on it before using will 
answer the same purpose. 



510 



The Canndidn Economist, 



To WASH NEW FLANNKL. 

Doia'ni'um Monflil//. 

Cut the soap small and 1>oil in a little wator. Have 
two tuLs with water as soft as the hands can bear it, pre- 
viously blue the water well, to keep the colour of the 
flannel, and ])ut some of the boiled soap into one tub t(» 
make a lather, then wash the Hannel wdthout squeezin;^- 
it. Put it in the other tul) and wrino- it in a larcje towel. 
Shake it out then, and after drying it, smooth it with ;i 
cool iron. 

TO IMIKVENT I'lllNTS FJIOM FADING. 

Godeys Book. 

The dress shouhl be wasl ci in a lather, and not by 
applying the soap in the usu.il way <lirect upcm the mus- 
lin. Make a lather ]jy boiling S( ap and water togethei-, 
let it stand until it is sufficiently cold for use, and pre- 
viously to putting the dress in it, throw in a handful of 
salt, rinse the dress witliout wringing it in clear cold 
w^ater into which a little salt has been thrown, remove it 
and rinse it in a fresh sui)i)ly of clear water and salt. 
Then wring the dress in a cloth auvl hang it to dry im- 
mediately, spreading as open as possible so as to prevent 
one part lying over another. Should there be any white 
in the pattern, mix a little blue in the water. 

To CLKAN SHAWLS. 

Fauiily Friend. 

To clean white Shetland shawls, put the soiled article 
into a large bowl, throw over it half a teaspoonful of 
flour (by, rub thoroughly as if washing, and then care- 
fully shake out the Hour. If the article is not clean, re- 
j)eat the process in clean flour. Articles cleaned by this 
process will retain a new look as long as there is one 
thread left. 



Glof^s Starch. 



511 



F F.ANN ELS. 
u]fj\s. Thomas M<Kay. 

All flannels should be soaked before they are made \ip, 
first in cobl and then in hot water, in oi'der to shrink 
them. Welch flannel is the softest, and should be pre- 
ferred if it be to be worn next the .skin, but Lancashire 
Hannel looks finer and lasts lonj^er, and should, therefore, 
be selected if the above is not its destination. Under 
flannel g<annents should be frequently changed, because 
they imbibe |)erspiration, which is liable to be obsorbed 
into the system, and this is injurious. All flannel gar- 
ments that are made full should be gathered, not pleated, 
because in the latter case they become thick and matted 
by washing, and in the event of their being turned from 
top to bottom in order to alter the wear, the part that 
had been pleated will be found to be so drawn and injured 
that two or three inches will have to be cut off". 

'JO WASH FLANNELS. 

Mrfi. Thomas McKay. 

Put the flannels into a pan and pour boiling water up- 
on them ; then make a lather as hot as the hands can bear, 
take the flannel and wash it as quickly as possible, Put 
plenty of blue in the lather. Done in this way, Haiuiel 
remains almost as soft as new, and is a good colour. 

GLOSS STARCIL 

VoK iKj Ladles Jotii'iial. 

For a gloss for shirt-bosoms, take two ounces of fine 
(Uini Arabic powder, put it in a pitcher and pour on a 
pint of water ; cover it and let it stand over night. Pour 
carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle ; stock and 
keep for use. A teaspoonful of gum stirred intoa])int of 
starch, made in the usual wa}', will make the most beau- 
tiful gloss on any bnen or cotton goods, and will make 
lawn look like new. 



512 



The Canadian Econom'i 



ut. 



FJIUIT STAINS. 

Mrs. Tlionias McKaij. 

Tliey yield readily to bleaching powder, if after it is 
put on it be moistened wii.h some acid, as vinegar or 
lemon, V>iit never use acids to coloured things. 

TO WASH COLOUKKD STOCKINGS. 

Put a tablespoonful of salt in a (juart of water. Let 
the stockings soali in that for ten minutes and then take 
them out and wash in soap and water. 

ON THE ART OF POLISHING SHIRTS AND COLLARS. 

Frovi the Enfjlish Mechanic, 

Put a little conniion wax in starch — say two ounces to 
the pound — tlien, if you use Glenfield or any other thin 
patent starcli, be sure you use it warm, or otherwise the 
wax will get cold and gritty and spot your linen, giving 
it the appearance of being stained with grease ; it is dif- 
ferent with collar-starch ; it can be used quite cold — how- 
ever, of that anon. Now then, about polishing shirts. 
Starch the fronts and wristbands as stiff as you can. 1 
always starch twice — that is, starch, dry, starch again. 
Iron your shirt with a box-iron in the usual way ; mak- 
ing the linen nice and firm, but without any attempt at 
a good finish ; don't lift the plaits. Your shirt is now 
ready for polishing, but you ought to have a board, the 
S3.me size as a common shirt board, made of hard wood 
iind covered with only one ply of plain cotton cloth. Put 
this board into the breast of your shirt, damp the front 
very lightly with a wet sponge, then take a polishing- 
iron, which is flat and bevilled a little at one end, polish 
gently with the bevelled part, taking care not to drive 
the linen up into wavelike blisters ; of course this requires 
a little practice, but if you are careful and persevere, in 
a short time you will be able to give the enamel-like finish 
which seems to be so much wanted. 



!!• it is 
;gar or 



r. Let 
m take 



RS. 



mces to 
er thill 
vise the 
, giving 
t is dif- 
— how- 
■ shirts. 



cau. 



1 



again. 

mak- 
'inpt at 
is now 
ird, the 

wood 



jii. 



X ut 



le front 
ishing- 
polish 
o drive 
equires 
,'ere, in 
e finish 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 
TO BANISH VERMIN AND INSECTS. 

TO KILL FLIES. 

Miss Douglas, Klnfjdon. 

PUT quassia chips into a saucer or plate, pour over 
them some hot water ; sweeten it with sugar or 
molasses. 

BED- BUGS. 

Mus Doiujlas, Kingston. 

Wash the bedstead thoroughly with a strong solution 
of salt and water ; stuff' the crevices with it. 'J'he hugs 
hate salt, and you will have no more trouble with them. 

HOW TO GET RID OF COCKROACHES. 

Rural A fairs. 

It is stated that the peelings of cucuml)ers placed in 
the way of cockroaches for three or four nights in succes- 
sion will entirely clear the house of these pests of the 
liousckeeper. 

CHLORIDE OF LIME. — TO DESTROY INSECTS. 

Godey's Book. 

By scattering chloride of lime on a plank in a stable, 
biting fleas are driven away. Sprinkling beds of vege- 
tables with a weak solution of this salt (jifectually pre- 
serves them from caterpillars, slugs, moths, i:c. It lia^ 
33 



514 



The Canadian Economist. 



the same effect when sprinkled on fruit trees or shrul)- 
bery, mixed in a paste with fatty matter, and applied in 
a narow band around the trees, it prevents insects from 
creeping up. 

REMEDY FOR BED-RUGS. 

Rural Affairs. 

Take a feather dipped in coal oil, apply it where the 
bugs are ; it will kill them at once. 

TO KEEP FLIES FROM HORSES. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Procure a bunch of vsmart weed and bruise it to cause 
the juice to exude. Rub the animal thoroughly with the 
bunch of bruised weed, especially on the legs, neck, and 
ears. Neither flies nor insects will trouble him for twenty- 
four hours. 

To keep away mosquitoes. — Dip a piece of sponge oi- 
flannel in camphorated spirits, and make it fast to the top 
of the bedstead. A decoction of pennyroyal or some of 
the bruised leaves rubbed on the exposed parts will effec- 
tually keep off these troublesome insects. 

TO DESTROY INSECTS ON HOUSE PLANTS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Dust thoroughly with flour of sulphur. It is a sure 
remedy against insects. 

COCKROACHES. 

Bo'w Bells. 

Take a teacupful of well- bruised pla ter of Paris, mixed 
with double the quantity of oatmeal, to which add a little 
sugar ; then strew it on the floor or in the chinks where 
they frequent^and it will destroy them. 



Makt 

one gall 
the stal 
will des 
and the^ 



Stron<! 
about th( 
tract an( 



Place a 



Take h; 
teaspoonf 
cream ; m 
on a plate 
soon disaj 



sure 



To Destroy Flics in a Room. 515 

TO CLEAR VEGETABLES OK INSECTS, 

Godeys Booh 

Make a strong brine of one pound and a half of salt to 
one gallon of water; into this place the vegetable (with 
the stalk ends uppermost) for two or three hours. This 
will destroy all the insects which cluster in the leaves, 
and they will fall out and sink to the bottom of the water, 

TO DESTROY FLIES. 

(JassclVs Hoii^eliold Guide. 

Strong green tea, sweetened well, and set in saucers 
al>out the places where they are most numerous, will at- 
tract and destroy them. 

TO EXTERMINATE BEETLES. 

Godeys Book. 
Place a few lumps of unslaked lime where they frequent 

TO DESTROY FLIES IN A ROOM. 

Godeys Book. 

Take half a teaspoonful of black pepper, in powder^ one 
teaspoonful of brown sugar, and one tablespoonful of 
cream ; mix them well together, and place them in a room 
on a plate where the flies are ti'oublesome, and they will 
soon disappear. 



inxed 
1 little 
'here 



7^>^^ 




"^— " 



fomc 
with 



Lh. Oz. 

1 7 



1 
1 
1 

1 
1 








i) 







CHAPTER XXXVII. 
GENERAL INFORMATION. 

WEIGHTS AND L''5:asURES. 

Mrs. (Capt.) Cowley. 

ONE quart of powdered sugar 
One quart of sifted Hour . - - 
One pint closely packed butter - - - 
Ten eggs -_----. 

Butter size of an egg - - - - - 
Three cupsful of sugar ----- 
Five cupsful of sifted Hour - - - - 

TO TAKE OUT INK SPOTS. 

Mrs. (Gapt.) Cowley. 

Wet the place with a little tartaric acid dissolved in 
water, after which rinse well in clear water. 

USEFUL HINTS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

A hit of glue dissolved in skim milk will restore crape. 
Ribbons of every kind should be washed in cold suds and 
not rinsed. If your Hat irons ave rough rub them with 
fine salt and it will make them perfectly smooth. If you 
are buying;; a carpet for durabil'ty, choose small figures. 
A bit of soap rubbed on the hinges of a door will prevent 
ft creaking. Scotch suutf' put in holes where crickets 



Tw( 

an oui 
whole 
thick 



Add 
slowly 



A nil 
c'ohol, ^ 
with a 
should 



Greei 
tually c 
it is ph 
render \ 



A goo 
be made 
glue, wli 
gethej-. 





















•) 













Cement. 



517 



Icrape. 
Us and 

with 

[f you 

Iguies. 

revent 

icketa 



fome out will destroy them. Woo<l ashes and salt wet 
with water will prevent the cracking of a stove. 

CEMENT FOR SHELL WORK. 

Mrs. (Cirpt) Cowley, 

Two ounces fine whiting, two ounces gum arabic, half 
an ounce of fine flour, a teaspoonful of ox gall. Let the 
whole he dissolved and mixed well with water into a 
thick paste. 

TO KEEP CREAM SWEET. 

Rural A fairs. 

Add a little white sugar to your cream, then heat it 
slowly and it will keep a long time. 

TO TAKE tJREASE OUT OF WOOD 

A mixture of one part liquid ammonia, four parts al- 
cohol, with an equal quantity of water. Apply to spots 
with a piece of sponge, soaking the cloth thoroughly. It 
should be kept in a bottle that hns a glass stopper. 

GREEN COPPERAS. 

Rural Affairs. 

Green copperas, <lissolved in water, it is said will effec- 
tually concentrate and destroy the foulest smells, and if 
it is placed near a bed in hospitals and sick rooms will 
render the atmosphere pure and clear. 

CEMENT. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

A good cement for mending broken crockeryware may 
be made by mixing togetlu.'r, e(pial quantities of melted 
glue, white of eggs and white lead, and boiling them to- 
t'cther. 



518 



The Canadian EconomiHt. 



MINCE MKAT. 

Rural Afa'u'8. 

Mincopie inoat will keep well for several months, boiled, 
chopped and packed down in a stone jar covered with 
molasses. 

MOLASSES. 

Jlur(d Affairs. 

The flavour of common moiasscs is much improve*! hy 
Loiling and skimming it before using. 

TO KXTIiACT GHEASE FROM PAl'EHEI) WALLS. 

Mrt<. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Dip a piece of tlannel in spirits of wine, rob tlie greasy 
spots gently once or twice and the grease will disappear, 

TO CLEAN FURNITURE. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One pint of linseed oil, one pint of vinegar, half a pint 
of spirits of wine or alcohol, shake before using. It gives 
a good polish and cleans the firniture. 

REMEDY FOR MILK TURNING SOUR. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

An effectual remedy for milk turning sour in summer 
consists in adding to each quart of Uiilk 15 grains of bi- 
carbonate of soda. 

TO RESTORE COLOUR TO CLOTHES. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

When acid has been dropped on any article of clothing 
apply liquid ammonia to kill the acid, then apply chloro- 
forni to restore the colour. 



Currants for Cakes. 



519 



pint 



imcr 
bi- 



uni-' 
)rO' 



TO KKKP GRAPES. 

Mrs. James Seiverhjht, Gloucesfer. 

Take (liy fine sawdust, and a tight box with a tight 
cover to it and go out to tlie trellis after the dew is oft*, 
and after sprinkling an inch of sawdust over the bottom, 
put in carefully a layer of grapes, not too crowded, but so 
as to let the sawdust fall into all the interstices and so 
alternately and when the box is full, i)ut a layer of saw- 
dust on top, tack on the cover, so as to exclude the air 
and set it on the cellar bottom in the coolest place. 

CKLERY. 

Fam'iUj Friend. 

The virtues of celery are vaunted in the Journal of 
Cherti'iHlrjj as being greater than peoplci imagine. Ner- 
vous people who shook like aspens and other deplorable 
cases have been radically cured by a modei'ate daily use 
of the blanched footstalks, taken as a salad, others have 
been cured of palpitation of the heart. In fact it is sug- 
gested that everybody engaged in labour weakening to 
the nerves, should use celery daily in the season and 
onions in its stead when not in season. 

CRICK KTS. 

Family Friend. 

Crickets may be got rid of by throwing Scotch snuft 
into the holes out of which they come. 

CURRANTS FOR CAKES. 

Familij Friend. 

After they have been washed and picked, should be 
scalded, in order to swell them and make them eat better. 
Put the currants into a basin, pour boiling water over 
them, cover the basin with a plate ; ^f ter standing a 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




/. 






V 



.^ 














Cp- 



% 



% 



i/j 



& 



I 



1.0 



1.25 



^ IIIIM 
.i^ IIIIM 

Z m 
c 1^ 



2.0 



11= 

U III 1.6 



.^ 






<^m >?^' 



VI 






^ 



&>. 




^ 




//% 



/f^ 



# 



^ 



/ 




Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 




f^ 



A 



<^ 





\\ 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, NY. 14580 

(716) 872-4503 



"9> 



V 



^ 







\ 



% 



v^^ 



% 



'U^ 



I 



L-P- 



I 




\ 



520 



The Ccmadian Economist. 



TTiinute, drain away the water and throw the fruit on to 
a cloth to absorl) the moisture ; then put the currants on 
a dish or plate, in a very cool oven, turning them occas- 
ionally until quite dry ; dust a little flour over them and 
they will be ready for use. 

WORMS. 

Family Friend. 

It is always worth while in a library to take down the 
volumes when dusty and examine for worms. A mild 
solution of carbolic acid, one pai't of acid to forty parts of 
v/^ater is a valuable veni\ifuge to inject into the cracks of 
the wood-work. 

FRENCH MUSTARD (TO KEEP). 

Family Friend. 

Take mixed whole spices and boil in vinegar with two 
lum])s of sugar ; then iTuistard into a stiff paste with cold 
vinegar; with a red hot Italian heater stir ([uickly while 
you mix the boiling vinegar, after straining the spices. 
This will keep for years well corked in a wide necked 
bottle. 

TOMATOES. 

Family Friend. 

Tomatoes picked when just ripe and with a portion of 
the stems retained and at once covered wdth a brine, com- 
posed of a teacupful of salt dissolved in a gallon of water, 
can be ke{)t nearly all the year without noticeable loss of 
freshness or taste. 

cow's MILK. 

Family Friend. 

With reference to the taking of cow's milk by persons 
who have a weak stomach, Dr. Schaal says he has always 



succec 
salt 01 
he om 
diarrl 
rit 
it, an( 
very 



pori 



Boiling Water. 



521 



succeeded in fwoidiiig any evil effects by eating a little 
salt on bread either before or after taking the milk, when 
he omits to do this a single glass of milk will produce 
diarrhoea, whereas with salt he can take a whole glass. 

'^It will do to put the salt in the milk while drinking 
it, and having tried it for one month, we can say it is 
very good. Ed.] 

KCONOMY I\ BREAD CRUSTS. 

Mrs. {Rev. J. M.) MacaUster, Ashton. 

Brown well in the oven, roll them fine and keep in a 
clean bag for use in frying veal cutlets, fish-balls, kc. 

TO VROTECT DOORS WHILE CLEANING. 

Mrs. (Rev. J. M.) Macalister, Ashton. 

A bit of oilcloth with a hole in the centre, to slip over 
the knobs or bell-pulls while rubbing, will ])revent deface- 
ment. 



FACTS OF VALUE TO THE HOUSEWIFE. 



SALT. 



Salt will curdle new milk ; hence ir> preparing milk- 
porridge, giavies, &c., the salt should not be added antil 
the dish is prepared. 



FRESM MEATS. 



Fresh meat after beginning to sour, will sweeten if 
placed out of doors in the cool an- over night. 



ROILING WATEll. 



Clear boiling water will remove tea stains and many 
fruit stains. Pour the water through the stain, and tbus 
prevent it spreading over the fabric. 



522 



The Canadian Economist. 



IllPE TOMATOES. 

Ripe tomatoes will remove ink and otlier stains from 
white cloth, also from the hands. 

TURPENTINE. 

A tablespoonfiilof tuipentine, boiled with white clothes, 
will greatly aid the whitening process. 

BOILED STARCH. 

Boiled starch is much improved by the addition of a 
little sperm, or a little salt, or both, or a little gum-arabic 
dissolved. 

BBESWAX AND SALT. 

Beeswax and salt will make your rusty flat-irons as 
clean and smooth as glass. Tie a lump of wax in a ra;;- 
and keep it for the purpose. When the irons are hot, rul) 
them first with the wax rag, then scour with a paper oi' 
cloth sprinkled with salt. 

KEROSENE OIL. 

Kerosene oil will soften boots or shoes which have been 
hardened by water, and render them as pliable as new. 

KEROSENE, 

Kerosene will make your tin kettle as bright as new. 
Saturate a woollen rag and rub with it ; it will also remove 
stains from and clean varnished furniture. 

MACHINE GREASE. 

Cold rain water and soap will remove machine grease 
from washable fabrics. 

STAINS ON MARBLE. 

They can be removed by a mixture of one ounce of soda, 
a piece of stone lime, the size of a walnut, one-q^uarter of 



A Lemon. 



523 



a pound of vhitinjnr and the same amount of soft soap. 
Boil this together ten or fifteen minutes, and then put the 
mixture on the marble while hot ; leave this on twenty- 
four hours, then wash off with clean warm water, and 
polish first with soft flannel, and then with chamois skin. 

CELERY COOKED. 

Exf rad from an article in the London Times. 

Celery cooked is a very fine dish, both as nutriment and 
a purifier of the l)lood. I will not enumerate tlie marvel- 
lous cures I have made with ceh'ry, for fear the medical 
men should, like the corn-dealers, attempt to worry me. 
Let me fearlessly say, rheumatism is impossible on such 
diet. Plainly let me say, cold or damp never produces 
rheumatism, but simply develops it. The acid blood is 
the primary cause and sustaining power of evil. While 
the blood is alkaline, there can be no rhumatism, and 
equally no gout. 

TO COOK CELERY. 

Out the celery into inch dice; boil in water until soft. 
No water must be poured away unless drunk by the in- 
valid. Then take new milk, slightly thicken with Hour, 
and flavour with nutmeg ; warm with the celery in the 
saucepan, serve up with diamonds of toasted bread round 
the dish and serve warm. Eat with potatoes if you wish. 

A LEMON. 

Godeys Book. 

It may not ]»e generally known that placing a lemon 
that has been carefully pared without breaking the thin 
inner white skin, inside a wild-duck, and keeping it there 
forty-eight hours before cooking, will remove all traces of 
a fishy flavour, and game may be kept a long time by 
putting a little finely powdeied charcoal in a muslin bag 



k 



524 



The Canadian Economitit. 



in the inside of a bird or rabbit, etc., the charcoal being 
changed daily. 

WORTH KNOWING. 

Godey's Book. 

Boil three or four onions in a ])int of water ; then with 
a gilding brush do over the frames of your pictures and 
chimney glasses, and rest assured that the ^ies will not 
light on the articles washed with the solution. 

GERMAN POLISH FOR FURNITURK. 

Godey's Book. 

Put in a pipkin over a slow fire, four ounces of yellow 
wax, and on*^ ounce of powdered black rosin ; when melted, 
add gradually two ounces of spirits of turpentine, and mix 
them well together. This composition should then be put 
into a bottle and securely corked. If some of this varnish 
be spread over the furniture with a piece of cloth and 
well rubbed in it will cause the article to appear as if 
varnished. 

CEMENT. 

Godeys Book. 

A cheap and very useful cement is made by dissolving- 
twopenny worth of shellac in naptha, a little at a time ; 
when the mixture is of the thickness of thick cream, it 
will mend wood, china, glass, jet, or anything in which a 
brown colour is not disfigurement. 

LIME-WATER. 

Godeys Booh 

Lime-water is easily made by pouring water over fresh 
shiked quick lime and pouring off the clear solution ; it 
should not be given to jhildren except under medical 
advice. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
THE COMPLEXION, HAIR, TEETH, &c. 

TOILET WASH. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

ri'^AKE a glass-stoppered bottle, put into it of the leaves 

J_ of the rose, then pour on some glycerine ; let it 

stand four weeks. When you want to use it pour a little 

into a bowl of water. Wash your face and hands in it. 

PREPARATION FOU THE HAIR. 

Mrs. J. M. Garland. 

Two ounces of castor oil, two ounces of bay rum, and 
one ounce of spirits of ammonia. Shake well together, 
and apply to the skin once a week, or oftener, if the hair 
needs it. 

DENTRIFK'ES 1, 2, 3. 

Dr. G. M. Hutchison. 

1. 

Prepared chalk twelve ounces, orris root one and a half 
ounce, glycerine two ounces, tincture of myrrh six drach- 
mas. Mix thoroughly into a stiff paste. 

2. 

Prepared chalk four ounces, orris root four ounces, oil 
of cinnamon half an ounce, white sugar four ounces, oil 
of rose three drops, oil of lemon twenty drops. 



52G 



Th£, Canad'um /'Jconomisf 



3. 

Ecjual parts of prepareil chalk and cuttle fish, alcohol 
twelve ounces, honey eight ounces, tincture of niyrrli one 
ounce, spirits of lavender one and a half ounce, oil of 
wintergreen one and a half drachms, castile soap half a 
cake, water, q. s., one ([uart. 

Shave the soap line. Put it into the alcohol with an 
ecjual part of water. Dissolve it in a water bath. When 
luke-warm add the honey. When cool, the other parts 
with enough water to make a quart. 

COSMETIC SOAP. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

One quarter of a pound of castile soap, cut into small 
pieces, then put into a tin saucepan with just water 
enough to moisten it well, and set it on hot coals, simmer 
till dissolved ; stir till smooth ; thicken with oatmeal. 
Take from the fire, and when cool scent with rose-water 
or any other essence. Stir it hard with a silver spoon, 
and when thoroughly mixed, put it into pots with 
covers. 

TO KEEP THE HANDS CLEAN AND SMOOTH. 

Rural Affairs. 

Procure a piece of pumice-stone at a drug store and 
grind one side smooth on a grind-stone. When the hands 
are rough and dirty, wash them in soap-suds, and rub 
them with the smooth side of the pumice-stone. Keep 
the pumice-stone wet when using it, as it will be moi"e 
effective when it is wet than wdien it is dry. 

GLYCERINE SOAP FOR CHAPPED HANDS, LIPS, ETC. 

Mrs. White, Bradford. 

Take toilet soap, slice, and melt with gentle heat, and 
add to it one pound of soap and one ounce of pur© 
glycerine. When sufficiently cool, melt in balls. 



Curling Fluid. 



527 



SOFT HANDS. 

Mrs. Whitf, Bi'dilford. 

For makino; the liands soft and white, take some dry 
Indian meal, wet your liands and rub them witli it, then 
rub them witli soap and tepid water. 

LIP SALVE. 

Miss D., Kingston. 

Melt together an ounce of white wax, the same of ox- 
marrow, three ounces of spernuicetti, with a small piece of 
alkanet-root tied in muslin. Perfume with anything to 
suit the taste. 

IN VALUABLE DENTRIFK'E. 

3fiss IX, Kingston. 

Dissolve half a small teaspoonful of powdered T)orax in 
half a pint of tepid Avater, add to it six or eight drops of 
tincture of myrrh. 

BALSAM FOR CHAPPED LIPS. 

Godey's Booh. 

Take a spoonful of clarified honey, with a few drops of 
lavender w^ater, or any other perfume. 

CURLING FLUID. 

Book of Fashion 

Place two pounds of common soap cut small, into three 
pints of spirits of wine, with eight ounces of potash, and 
melt the whole, stirring it with a clean piece of wood. 
Add, on cooling, essence of and)er, vanilla and neroli, of 
each a quarter of an ounce. The best method of keeping 
ringlets in curl is the occasional application of the yolk 
of an egg, and the hair washed in clear lukewarm water. 
Apply the egg with a tooth or hair brush. 



o28 



The Canadian Econoniut. 



WHISKERS AND MUSTACHIOS. 

Bolo Bells. 

To promote their growth, rub in the following lotion, 
three or four times a week, at night time : Eau de cologiu; 
two ounces ; tincture of cantharides, two ounces ; oil of 
rosemary and oil of lavender, of each ten drops. 

FOR THICKENING THE HAIR. 

Book of Fashion. 

To one ounce of Palma Christi oil, fidd a sufficient 
quantity of bergamot or lavender to scent it. Apply it 
to the parts where it is most needed, brushing it well 
into the hair 

TO WHITEN THE NAILS. 

Book of Fashion. 

Diluted sulphuric acid, two drachms ; tincture of myrh, 
one drachm, spring water four ounces ; mix. First cleanse 
with white soap, and then dip the lingers into the mix- 
ture. 

TO WHITEN THE HANDS. 

Book of Fashion. 

Take a wineglas.sful of Eau de Cologne and another 
of lemon juice, then scrape two cakes of brown Windsor 
soap to a powder, and mix well in a mould. When hard, 
it will be an excellent soap for whitening the hands. 

c;ertain cure for soft corns. 

Book of Fashion. 

Dip a piece of soft linen rag in spirits of turpentine and 
wrap it round the toe in which the soft corn is, night and 
morning. In a few days the corn will disappear, but the 
relief is instantaneous. 



Fouri 
togethe] 
acid in 
when C( 
tie is ei| 



Peel 
stand s 
pint of 
freezer, 



Two 

sugar, i 
l)oil th 
whites 
sedime 
ture t( 
drops < 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 
SUMMER AND OTHER BEVERAGES. 

LEMON ACID. 

Misft Mdvy Broil (/h, Ottawa. 

Four poniids of loaf sugar, five j)ints of water; boil 
together slowly for lialf an hour. Put two ounces of citric 
acid in an earthcrn pan and pour over it tlie hot syrup ; 
when cold, flavour with essence of lemon — a ten cent bot- 
tle is enough. Bottle for use. 

PINEAPPLE STIKRHET. 

Mrs. Donaldson. 

Peel and grate the pineapple, ad<l the sugar, and let 
stand several hours, then strain through a bag ; add a 
pint of water for each pineapple. After putting in the 
freezer, add the whites of three ejxffs well beaten. 



GO' 



CREAM NECTAR. 

Mrs. Horsej Oftaiva. 

Two and a half ounce of tartaric acid, two pounds of 
sugar, three-quarters of an ounce of Rochelle salts, nearly 
l)oil the above ; take it off the tire, add the well -beaten 
whites of two eggs, strain and coo], and pour from the 
sediment into bottles. Take a wineirlassful of the mix- 
ture to a tumbler nearly full of coM water, add a few 
drops of lemon and a spoonful of soda. 

:3i 



530 



The Canadian Ecouomif<t. 



HOME-MADE OINGEK BEKU. 

Mrs Kennedy, Owen Sound., 

To a <^^alluii of boiling water add t]irec-([uarters of a 
pound of l>ro\vn suj^^ar, one ounce of bruised ginger, halt' 
an ounce of cream of tartar, two lemons ; when nearly 
cold, add a tablespoonful of go(»d yeast. In twe've hours 
bottle, and in twenty-four hours it will be Ht for use. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Mrs. [Rev. K.) MdcLeniuWy P. E. I. 

Three larts of water to three pounds of sugar ; boil 
five minutes ; put it into a basin with one ounce of tar- 
taric acid and let it dissolve ; flavour with lemon. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Mrs. Ihimias McKay. 

Five ounces of tartaric acid, one and a half ounce Ep- 
som salts, four ])ounds of white sugar, four (piarts of water, 
four eggs, the whites only. Mix the first four ingredients 
in a pot and let them nearly boil, take off, and when cold, 
add the whites of eggs and lemon or other essence to 
taste, then bottle. Pour about two tablespoonsful into a 
tumbler nearly full with water; add a little baking soda 
on the point of a spoon and stir briskly. 

FOR NECTAR OR SODA (NO. 2). 

Book of Fashion. 

To two quarts of boiling water add one pint of mo- 
lasses and two pounds of coffee sugar. Let it boil alto- 
gether and skim it, add four ounces of tartaric acid, after 
which let it boil ten minutes, then strain it and when 
cold, add the whites of six eggs, well beaten. Cork up. 
For use, add two tablespoonsful of the mixture to a tum- 
blerful of water, stirring in it at the moment of drinking, 
a lump of soda a little larger than a pea. 



Straivheri'i/ S/icrhert. 



531 



NECTAR. 

Miss McWte, Rmfrew, 

Take two poiiiuls of white su^ar, ami two (Hiaits of 
soft water, boil for a quai'ter of an liour. When eool, put in 
the whites of four ej^^gs and a (quarter of a pound of tartaric 
aeid, strain and bottle. Put a dessertsj)oonful iji a glass 
with water, and add a small teaspoonful of eommon bak- 
ing soda. Drink during ett'erveseence. A delicious sum- 
mer drink. 

UINGER BEER. 

Mrs. McTiKjyart, Ncxv Edinburgh. 

Two gallons of water, two pounds of white sugar, two 
ounces of bruised ginger. Boil these one hour ; then put 
into a large crock and add half an ounce of cream of 
tartar, one lemon sliced thin, one cupful of yeast (baker's) 
let stand two days, or till it begins to ferment. Then 
strain and bottle. 

AMBROSIA (a summer DRINK). 

Mim Robertson, Thorold. 

Five and a half pounds of white sugar, dissolved in a 
gallon of water, then add five ounces of tartaric acid, the 
whites of two eggs beaten well, strain the whole, add es- 
sence of lemon or ginger to your taste. Bottle it, and it 
will keep for months. Directions for use : To half a glass- 
ful of water, a small half-teaspoonful of soda, pour in the 
ambrosia. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBKRT (l)ELICIOUS). 

Mrs. (Rev.) A. Scutt, Oicen Sound. 

One quart of strawberries, three pints of _water, one 
lemon, juice only, one tablespoonful of orange-Hower 
water, three-quarteis of a pound of white sugar. The 



532 



The Canadian Economist. 



strawbenies should be fresh and ripe. Crush to a smootli 
paste, add the rest of the ingredients, except the sugar, 
and let it stand three hours. Strain over the sugar, 
S([ueezing the cloth hard, stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
Strain again and set in ice two hours before you use it. 

STKAWHERIU' VINLGAR. 

Mws Beecher. 

Put four pounds of very ripe strawberries, nicely 
dressed, to three quarts of the best vinegar, and let them 
stand three or four days. Then drain the vinegar through 
a jelly-bag, and pour it on to the same ([uaniity of fruit. 
Repeat the process in three da} s a third time. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

JA.S6' Beet he I'. 

Take the juice of a dozen oranges, and pour a pint of 
boiling water on the peel, and let it stand covered half an 
hour. Boil a pound of loaf sugar in a jiint of water, skim, 
and then add the juice and the water from the ])eel to the 
sugar. Strain it and cool with ice or fi'eeze it. The juice 
of two lemons and a little more sugar im})roves it. 

GRAPE WFNE (SIMPLE AND "HRFECT). 

The Bazar. 

One (juart of grape juice, three (piar^s of water, two 
and a half pounds of conmion brown sugar. Keep in an 
open barrel nine days, covering oidy with mu.sjln to ex- 
clude insects ; then put in a close cask, fastening the bung 
and set it aside till spring. Then rack oti' and bottle. 



ORANGEADE. 

The Bazat\ 

T1\Q sour oranges, which are so plentiful in the spring, 
and too acid for eating purposes, may be utilized in this 



R' I is in Wl'nc. 



5:i:) 



n^- 



III' 

lis 



way. Kul) tliGin well, squeeze and strain the juice, just 
as lemons for lemonade ; six liigh-Havoured oranges should 
be enough to acidulate sufficiently one quart of water, 
and to (quantity put a hea[)ing eu])ful of white sugar. 

(JOOD NECTAR. 

The Bazar. 

Take two pounds of raisins chopped, and four pounds 
of loaf sugar, and ]mt them into a pot. Pour two gallons 
of boiling water upon them. The next day, when it is 
cold, slice two lemons into it. Let it stand five days, stir- 
ring it twice a day. Then let, it stand five days more to 
clear, bottle it, jMit it into a cold cellar for ten days, and it 
will be tit to drink. 

<)H.\NGEA1)1':. 

Godcyx H(n)k, 

Roll a!id press the juice from the oranges in the same 
way as from lemons. It i'e(|uires less sugar than lemonade. 
The water must be pure and cold, an<l then there can \»e 
nothing more delicious than these two kinds of drinks. 

OIXGEUADE. 

Bow Bells. 

Take Jamaica ginger-root, two and a half ounces, boil- 
ing water one pint, lump sugar two and a half pounds, 
citric, two drachms ; Itruise the ginger-root, infuse it four 
hours in water, and to the strained liijuor add tin; sugar, 
and dissolve it with the aid of heat. Remove the scum, 
and lastly add the citric acid, 

RAISIN WINE. 

Common Sense in the Household . 

One pound of white sugar, two pounds of raisins seeded 
and copped, one lemon, all tlie juice and half the grated 



534 



T1>e Canadian Economid. 



peel, two gallons of boiling water. Put all into a stone 
jar, and stir every day for a week, strain then and bottle 
it. It will be fit for use in ten days. 

CRAXBEIUIV WINF. 

Common Senfie In the Household. 

Mash ripe berries to a pulp, put into a stone jar, add 
one quart of water to two quarts of berries. Stir well, 
and \it it stand two days. Strain through a double flan- 
nel bag. Mash a second sup])ly of berries, equal in (juan- 
tity to the first, and cover with this licpiid. Steep two 
days more, strain, add one pound of sugar for three (juarts 
of liquor, and boil five minutes. Let it ferment in lightly- 
covered jars. Rack off and bottle. This is said to be 
good for Scrofula. 

SARSAPi\RILLA MEAD. 

ilf/x.s' Beechcr. 

One pound of Spanish Sarsajiarilln. Boil it in four 
gallons of water five hours, and add enough of water to 
have two gallons, ad<l sixteen pounds of sugar, and ten 
ounces of tartaric acid. To make a tumblerful of it, taki' 
l.alf a wineglassful of the above, and then fill with water, 
and put in half a teaspoonful of soda. 

SUMMER REVERAOE. 

Miss Beech cr. 

Ten drops of oil of sassafrax, ten drops of oil of spruce, 
ten drops of oil of wintergreen, two quarts of boiling 
water poured on to two great spoonsful of crean\ of tartar. 
Then add eight (piarts of cold water, the oils, three gills 
of distillery yeast (or twice as much ht)me-brewed), and 
sweeten it to the taste. In twenty-four hours bottle it 
and it is a delicious beverage, 




CHAPTER XL. 
COOKERY FOR THE SIOK. 



APPLK WATER. 

M'lf^H iJouyhis, Kiiujston. 

TAKE one tart a|)i>le well l)akc'(l, mash it well, pour on 
it one pint of boiling water, beat them well to- 
gether, let it stand to cool, then strain for use, sweeten 
with loaf sugar. 

BEEF TEA. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

(Jut one pound of the lean fresh juicy beef into small 
thin slices ; sprinkle them with a very little salt; put it 
into a wide-mouthed stone jar, closely corked ; set it into 
a pot of water, make the water boil, keep it there one 
hour and a-half, then take out the jar. Strain the essence 
of the beef into a bowl. Chicken tea may be made in the 
same way. 

calves' FEET JELLY. 

(From Miss Purloas Lectures.) 

Per M?'s. llumplu'eys, ProvUh'nce, R.I. 

Miss Parloa said this ielly was constantly used by Miss 
Charlotte Cuslnnan, and is very strengthening. Put a shin 
of beef weighing about ten pounds, and six calves feet, 
after washing, into six quarts of cold water. Reduce it 
by gentle boiling to three quarts ; strain and set it away 



fl 



136 



The Canadian Economist. 



to cool. Wlien cold remove the fat, put the jelly into a 
kettle and salt it ; let it boil up once, and strain througli 
a cloth. Set in a cool place, it will keep in cool weather 
two weeks. It may be spiee<i it' liked with two whole 
cloves and a stick of cinnamon, and made clear by using 
the white of an egg and a cup of cold water. 

CHICKEN JELLY. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Take a large chicken, cut it up into very small pieces, 
bruise the Itones ; put thii whoh^ into a jar with a cover 
that will make it water-t ^ht. Set the jar into a kettle of 
boiling water ; keep it boiling three hours. 

WINE .lELLV. 

31 rs. McNaclitan, Cohourg, 

One cupful of gelatine, soake<l for two hours in a large 
cupful of water,two cupsful of white wine, onehunon. Add 
the juice and half the grated peel.one teaspoonful of bitter 
almond extract, two cupsful of white sugar, two cupsful 
of boiling water. Put soaked gelatine, lemon, sugar and 
flavouring together and cover closely for half an hour. 
Pour on boiling water, stir and strain, add the wine, strain 
again through a Hannel bag without squeezing and pour 
in a mould. 

WINE JELLY. 

Mrs. Stltt, Ottawa. 

Ingredients : — One package marked 9d. Cox's Gelatine, 
four lemons, half a pint of wine, whites of two eggs, sugar 
(white), and cinnamon bark. Soak the gelatine in one 
pint of cold water, when quite soft add one pint of boil- 
ing water, half a pint of wine (Sheriy), juice and pulp 
of four lemons, sugar and cinnamon ti» taste. Place over 
the fire, and before boiling add the beaten whites of two 



Koiirlslibuj Soup, 



537 



t'gfjs. Let it boil one minute before straining. Strain 
it tliroiii^h Hannel into jelly shapes that have been first 
(lipped into cold water. Place in the ice to stitien. 

CHICKEN JELLY (FOR INVALIDS). 

Mrs. McKeitzle, Almonte, 

Put a fowl into a pan (an old one preferred), also a 
houg-h of beef, with carrot, tuiniji and salt (no pepper), 
a sufficient (quantity of water, so as to allow of slow boil- 
ing for twelve hours without adding any water. Put it 
through a sieve into a lariic dish, let it cool, take off the 
fat, use it either cold as a jelly or melted as soup, with some 
toast. 

WINE JELLY. 

7I//.S.S Minnie White, Hamitton. 

Dissolve a box of Cox's gelatine in a {)int of water. 
Four over it one (piart of boiling water, rind and juice of 
two lemons, almonds, one (piait of sugar, and one pint of 
wine. Strain and put it in moulds to cool. 

PRKPAIUXG FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 

ilB'6*. ITinjh Young, Hand Point. 

A very simple and expeditious way of cooking a little 
bit of chicken or fish for a sick person is to butter a paper 
thickly, place the food to be cooked within the paper and 
place on a gi'idiron over a slow fire. A very short time 
will suffice to cook it thoi'oughly. 

NOURlSHIN(i SOUP (FOR INVALIDS). 

Family Friend. 

Boil tw(3 )iounds of lean veal and a ([uarter of a pound 
of pearl barley in a quart of water very slowly until it 
becomes the consistency of cream, pass it through a fine 



538 



The Canadian Economist. 



sieve and salt to taste, Havour it witli celery seed, if tlio 
taste be liked, or use fresh celery, if in season ; a very 
small quantity of seed would suttice ; it should simmer 
very slowly, as otherwise the barley does not pi'operly 
amalgamate with the soup. It is called barley cream, and 
will not keep more than twenty-four hours. Beef may 
be used instead of veal. 

calves' feet jelly. 
Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Four ounces gelatine, iive ounces sugar, four eggs, one 
glassful of pale brandy ; liave ready a clean pan, put in 
one quart of water with gelatine, boil till properly melted, 
add a little more water, put in the eggs and shells and su- 
gar, let it come to a boil, then strain through a flannel bag, 
if not clear enough strain twice ; flavour with a little 
lemon. 

BLACK CURRANT JAM WATER. 

Godey's Book. 

Put two tablespoonsful of the jam with a pint of water 
into a peifectly bright tin saucepan and allow them to 
simmer for half an houi-, strain it, and if for a cold take 
it as hot as possible; when required to aflay thirst the 
drink will be given cold; in cases of sore throat a table- 
spoonful more jam will be used. This method of making 
jam water is better and more economical than merely 
pouring boiling water on the jam. 

RICE WATEP. 

Godeys Book. 

Wash two ounces of best rice and boil it fast for half 
an hour in a ([uart of water, any flavouring may be added, 
or a small stick of cinnamon or shred lemon jieel may }>e 
boiled with the rice and sugar used according to circum- 
stances; lemonade made with the rice water when cold is 
very refreshing. 



Barley Wafer. 



539 



GUM ^UAHAC rt'ATEK. 

Put into an eavtlienware jar an ounce of the finest 
picked gum witli two ounces of sugar candy and a pint of 
water, set it in a saucepan of water an<l stir occasionally 
until dissolved ; this is very useful as a night drink for 
hectic cough and will allay the tickling of the throat ; it 
should be kept as hot as possible. 

UNSEED TKA. 

Go(h>ij,s Book'. 

Boil gently for two hours two ounces of linseed in a 
pint and a half of water with a little lemon peel shred 
finely and an ounce of barley sugar, strain and add enough 
of lemon juice to make it aufreeable. This is useful for a 
cough and should be taken warm. Spanish licorice may, 
if liked, be boiled with the linseed. 

SAGO. 

Godeys Book. 

To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water^one 
hour, pour that off and wash it well, then ad<l more, and 
simmer gently till the seeds are cleai* with lemon peel and 
spice, if approved ; sweeten and boil all up together. 

TAMARANDS OR CUANHERUY JUICE. 

Godeys Book. 

These, with double the (quantity of water, form a plea- 
sant drink in fever or for an invalid when approaching 
convalescence. 

15ARLEY WATl!:R. 

Godeys Book. 

One ounce of pearl })arley, half an ounce of white sugar 
and the [rind of a lemon; piU< it into a jug, pour upon it 



51.0 



7%', C(i7i(fdi(in Economist 



Olio f|uart of lioiHn<jf water, and let it stand for eifjlit or 
ten liours, tlieii strain otf tlie li(juor, adding a slice of le- 
mon if desirable; ; this infusion makes a most delicious and 
nutricious bev^erage, and will be grateful to persons wdio 
cannot eat the horrid decoction usually mven. 

ARROWROOT CUSTARD FOR INVALIDS. 

Afiss Beecher. 

One tablespoonful of arrowroot, one ])int of milk, one 
egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, mix the arrowroot with a 
little of the cold milk, j)ut the milk into a saucepan over 
the fire, and when it boils stir in the arrowroot and the 
egg and the sugar well beaten together; let it scald, and 
pour it into cups to cool ; a little cinnamon boiled in the 
milk flavours it pleasantly. 

SIMPLK WINE WHEY. 

il/Zs-s* Beecher. 

Mix equal (piantities of water, milk and white wine, 
warm the milk and water, and then add the wine, sweeten 
it to taste. 



TRKATMI 








CHAPTER XLI. 
SPKCIFICS AND REMEDIES. 



FOR TREA.TMENTOF DYSENTRY. 

Mrs. Brouyh, Ottatca. 

BEAT one egg in a teacup, add one tablespoonful of 
ground spice. Fill the cup with sweet milk, (iive 
the patient a tables})oonful once in ten minutes, until re- 
lieved. 

TRFATMENT FOR ALL KINDS OF S( lATICA AND NEURALGIC 

PAINS. 

i]frs. Brouiili, Ottawa. 

Heat a flat iron or brick sufficiently hot to vaporize the 
vinegar, then cover it with flannel, and moisten with 
vinegar, and apply at once to the painful spot ; the a})pli- 
cation may be repeated two or three times a day. As a 
rule the pain disappears in twenty-four hours, and re- 
covery ensues all at once. 

RECIPE FOR NEb'RALlilA. 

Miss Doughts, ]\ln(jsto)i. 

Camphorated oil or camphorated spirits, half an* ounce ; 
strongest ammonia spirit, half an ounce. Apply to the 
temple or behind the ears, for from five to seven minutes, 
until blistered. Take a piece of linen, about four thick- 
nesses ; put on as much stuff as will cover a twenty-five 
cent piece. — Attested, A. Douglas. 



542 The Canadian Economist. 

KAW ONIONS. 

Mrs. Broil (jh, Ottava. 

Dr. Balfour, in tlie EdlnhitrgJt Medical Journal, re- 
cords three cases in wliich iiuicli benefit was afforded 
|>atients l»y the eating of raw onions in large quantities; 
they acted as a diuretic in each instance. 

A HEALING SALVK. 

Mrs. Carson, Kingston. 

Half a pound of mutton suet, rendered and strained, 
half a pound of beeswax, half a gill of spirits of turpen- 
tine. To be mixed together when warm. 

BURNS AND SCALDS. 

Miss DoiKjlas, Kingston. 
Lime water and linseed oil ; wrap in old linen rags. 

CHILBLAINS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Lay on a rag, wet \/ith warm water, in which you have 
dissolved a large lump of saltpetre. Make tlie water as 
strong as possible of the saltpetre. 

SORE THROAT. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Steep some red-peppers in cider, use as a gargle, swal- 
lowing a little occasionally. A better remedy is to gar- 
gle the throat with brewer's toast. 

PILE OINTMENT. 

Take of tannin one drachm, sulphate of morphia ten 
grains, lard two ounces. Melt the lard, and while cook- 



Cure for Corns* 



543 



ing stir in the tannin and morphine. — Attested, A, 
Douglas. 

BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. 

MisH Dou(jI((s, KhujHton. 

Blow throuLi^h a quill sonio fincly-powdorod gum arabic 
through the nostrils. 

CHILHLAINS, 

Miss DouyluH, K'uxjdon. 

Drop from a hurtling tallow candle thirty drops of the 
tallow into thi'ee tablespoonsful of warm brandy. Rub 
this upon the chilblains on going to bed. 

CORNS BETWEEN THE TOES. 

Miss Douglas, Khicfston. 

Wet them several times a day with hartshorn, in a 
short time they will disappear. 

TO CURE FELONS. 

Miss Don(jlaf<, Kiufjsfoii 
Biud a piece of rusty pork, the fat part, on the linger. 

CURE FOR CHAFIN(t. 

Mim Doll (j/ ax, Kiiijxton. 

(' t Fuller's earth, i)owder it tinelv. Dust thicklv on 
the parts twice a day, 

CURE FOR CORNS. 

Miss DoiKjlas, KinyMon. 

Scrape upon it a powder made of half French chalk 
and half common chalk, tie it up in a clean linen rag. 
Apply fresh chalk each day. 



544 



The Canadian Economist. 



COLn IN TIIK HKAD. 

Miss JJouij/as, Kingston. 

Fill a basin with hoilinjjj water, add one ounce of j^ood 
niustanl. Have the liead covered with a cK)t]i, to prevetit 
the escape of tlie steam, over the basin, as long as any 
steam aiises. 

COUNS. 

VlcJSs Rural Affairs. 

A fig, roasted and applied to corns of the longest stand- 
ing, is said to he a certain cure. 

TO CURK TIIK QIJINSKY. 

Mrs. Hi OS. McKay. 

Make a poultice of common white Lima Iteans, and ap- 
ply it to the throat hot. 

A CUKE FOR PYSKNTKRV. 

Mrs. T/ios. McKay. 

Tn a teacup hal full of vinegar, dissolve as much salt as 
it will take up, leaving a little excess of salt at the bot- 
tom of the cup ; pour boiling water upon the solution till 
the cup is two-thirds or three-quarters full. A scum will 
rise to the surface wliich must be removed, and the solu- 
tion allowed to cool. Dose. — A tablespoonful three times 
a day till relieved. 

A USEFUL EMBROCATION FOR RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO AND 

STRAINS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Half an ounce of strongest campiiorated spirits, on(^ 
ounce of sjnrits of turpentine, one raw eg^, half a pint (»f 
best vinegar. Well mix the whole and keep it closely 



Face Ache. 



i) 



45 



corked. To he rubbed in throe or four times a day ; for 
rheumutisrn in the head, or fae(;-aehe, rub all over the 
back of the head and neck, as well as the [)art which is 
th<' immediate seat of pain. 

EXCKLLKN'T EYK WASH. 

Mv>*. Tlioft. McKay. 

Three or five <];rains of alum, dissolved in half a pint of 
water and applied to the eyes wlienever they are weak 
or inflamed. 

RHEUMATISM. 

Mi'H. Tlioi^. McKaii. 

Honey two pounds, flour of sulphur two ounces, cream 
of tartar one ounce, Jamaica ginger, powdered, half an 
ounce, one nutnu^g grated, gum guiacum, pow<lered one 
drachm. Mix all tln^se inmedients well. Dose — Two 
teaspoonsfui twice a day in a tumbler of hot water. 

REMEPY FOR t'ROUP. 

Mrs, Titos. McKa}j. 

Half a teaspoonful of powdered alum in a little mo- 
lasses. It is a simple remedy, one almost always at hand, 
and one dose seldom fails to give relief. 

FACE-ACHE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

A cabbage leaf well warmed before the lire and applied 
to the face as hot as possil)le, will be found a certain cure 
for the face ache ; or, take twelve grains of sulphate of 
(juinine, one ounce of white lump sugar and pound them 
well in a mortar, then divide into twelve portions, two of 
which should be taken each day in water ; or. take half a 

35 



546 



TJie Canadian Economist. 



teaspoonfiil of carbonate of iron in water, three times a 
(lay. 

IIHEUMATTC PAINS IN THK FACE AND TEKTJI. 

Mrs. ThoH. McKay. 

They niay be greatly alleviated by adopting the fol- 
lowing course: Take two teaspoonsful of tlour, two of 
grated ginger, and incorporate them well together witli 
Hufficient essence of ginger to n-ake a th;n paste. Spread 
this upon a linen rag and aj)ply it to tlie part affected on 
going to bed, wrapping a piece of Hannel over all, and ic 
will effect a cure. 

REMEDY FOR CROUP. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Half a teaspoonful of pulverized a um in a little mo- 
lasses. It is a simple remedy, one almost always at hand, 
and one dose seldom fails to give relief; if it sliould not, 
repeat it after one hour. Some persons just give the pure 
alum powder. A little on the point of the finger, even 
while the child is sleeping. 

COLD IN THE HEAD. 

• Mrs. Thos. McKati, 

A physician of France, says that a cold in the head can 
be cured by inhaling hartshorn. The inhalation by the 
nose should be seven or eiirht times in five minutes. 



^'OUGH COMPOUND. 

Miss EiiL, dine Thomson, Ottaiva. 

For the cure of coughs, colds, whooping-cough, and all 
diseases of th;^ lungs : — One dessertspoonful of vegetable 
tar, three dessertspoonsful of honey, tlie yolks of thi'ee 
hen's eggs and half a pint of wine (sherry preferred), beat 



Cranberries as a Cure for Cancer 



;">4'i( 



tlie tar, eggs and honey well togetlier, then ad»l the wine 
and beat all together with a knife, then bottle for use. 
Dose, a teaspoonful every niornhig, noon and night, before 
eatino-. 

FOR COLDS. 

Rev. David Wardvope, Teesvater. 

Boneset, slippery elm bark, licorice, Haxseod, one ounce 
of each. Infuse in a ([uai't of boiling water for two hours, 
add one pint of molasses or syrup, hnlf a poun<l of loaf 



sugar 



Simmer till the sutrar is dissolved. 



CURE FOR EARACHE. 



Mrs. Wkite, Bradford,, Pa. 

Take a tobacco i)ipe, place a wad of cotton in a bowl, 
drop eight or ten drops of chloroform and cover with 
more cotton. Place the stem to the aftiicted ear and blo'.v 
in the bowl. 

GERANIUM LEAVES. 

1Aj'.s\ White, Bradford, Pa. 

The leaves of geraniums are an excellent application 
for cuts, when the skin is rubbed off and other \youndsof 
the kind. One or two leaves must be Ijruised and applied 
on linen to the part an<l the wound will become lu^aled in 
a very short time. 

TFIE VIRTUES OF CRANBERRIES AS A CURE FOR CANCER. 

It has been ascertained that the a)>plication of raw 
cranberries, applied as a poultice, will cure thi.s most invet- 
erate disease. We know of one instance, a lady of qui* 
acquaintance (says an exchange paper) who had a cancer 
in her breast which had become as large as a pullet's egg, 
and was an inch below the surface of the skin. In this 
present case it was an hereditary disease, an<l she regarded 
it a« a death warrant. She was persuaded, however^ to 



548 



TJte Canadian Eoonomid. 



try the ciaiibenies, and tliey effected a cure. It is now 
between two or three years since it disappeared, and she 
has had no intimation of a return of the disease. The 
cranberries were mashed in a mortar, spread on a cloth 
and hiid on, clianging the poultice three times a-day. In 
two or three days, it became so sore that it drew out pus- 
tules that filled like the small pox, and this process was 
renewed with the same effect until the whole was drawn 
away ; the cancer becoming softened, and decreasing in 
size at every aj)plication until it finally disappeared. 

TO CDOL INFLAMMATlOxV. 

Yourifj Ladies Journal. 

Refined chalk made into a thick lather with one-third 
as nuich glycerine as water and spread on the parts will 
cool inflannnation and reduce redness of the face and 
hands. 

TO REMOVE TEA STAINS. 

Yoiinfi Ladic-^* Journal. 

Clear boilino- water will remove tea stains. Pour the 
water through the stain and thus prevent it spreading 
over the fal)iic. 

SMALL -POX. 

T am willing to risk my reputation, wrote Edward 
Hine, to the Liverpool Mercury, if the worst case of small- 
pox cannot be cured in three days, simply by the use of 
cream of tartar, one ounce of cream of tartar dissolved in 
a pint of water, drank at intervals when cold, is a never- 
failing certain remedy. It has cured thousands, never 
leaves a mark, and nevei- causes blindness. 

Foil A S(.'ALl) <.>H Br UN. 

Godeifs Bool' 

iti)ph' inmiediately pulveiized charcoal and oil ; lamp 
will do, but linseed is better. 



Tl 

.,ld-J 
twell 
and 



Lemon J idee for Pain. .549 

CHROMATE OF POTASH FOR WARTS. 

G(nle>i^s Book. 

Tho following forinula has been recornniendtHl even in 
old-standing and inveterate warts, (.'roniate of potash 
twelve grains, lard one drachm ; mix and riih in night 



and morning. 



CURE FOR PRICKLY HEAT. 



Godj'ifx Book. 

Mix a large portion of whe.-it hran, with either cold or 
lukewarm water, and use it as a bath twice or thrice a 
day. Children, who are covered with prickly heat in 
warm weathei", will thus be effectually lelieved from that 
toruicnting eruption. As soon as it begins to a[)pear on 
tlie neck, face, or arms, commence using the bran water 
on these parts repeatedly through the day, and it may 
probably spread no further. If it does, the bran water 
will certainly cure it, if persisted in. 

LEMON .ItTlCE FOR PAIN. 

Godeys Book. 

Lemon juice, or a solution of citric acid relieves the 
pain of cancer, when applied to the soie as a lotion. 




CHAPTER XLII. 
MISCELLANEA. 



HOW TO MAKE CANDLES OUT OF LARD. 

Mrs. (Capt.) Coivley. 

ONE pound t)f alum, one pound of saltpetre, dissolve 
in a metal pot, and boil till all is dissolved, then 
add twelve pounds of lard. Boil slowly and stir often, 
till all the scum, which looks like yolks of e^gs, falls and 
sticks to the pot, then stiain and let cool. It makes ex- 
cellent candles for sunnner use. 

HAKING POWDER (oKIOINAL). 

J/v'.s. H Irani Robinson. 

One pound of cream of tartar, half a pound of baking- 
soda, one pound of flour. Mix all together thoroughly, 
by passing through a sieve several times, then dry it by 
putting it on a [)aper on a warm stove. Pass it througli 
the sieve again and bottle it, to be kept in a very dry 
place. 

PRINCE CAKE. 

Mrs. James Slcvcrp/ht, (Houcestcr. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, beaten together, 
then add half a cupful of milk, four cupsful of Hour, six 
eggs, two broken in at a time, four teaspoonsful of bak- 
ing powder, half a poun<l of stoned raisins. Flavour witli 
lemon. 



Caramel Cake. 



551 



hAKINd POWDER. 

Mrf<. W. JJatchi'^on. 



A quarter of a pound of soda, lialf a ])ouud of best cream 
of tartar, one pound of Hour. 



Mix all well together, 



CURX-STARCH CAKE. 

^frs. James Steverijht, Gloucester. 

Tliree-tpiarters of a cupful <»f butter, two of sugar, 
one of sweet inilk, two of Hour, one of corn-starch, whites 
of six eggs, a teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrfi. James Slcverifjht, Gloucester. 

Boil a quart of good sweet milk, and thicken with four 
teablespoonsful of sifted corn-meal, a Id three tablespoons- 
ful of molasses or Itrown sugar, one of butter, one egg, 
nutmeg or cinnamon to taste. Bake one hour if your 
oven is ([uick, if a slow heat, one hour and a half. Eat 
warm from the oven, or cool, if preferred, with syrup or 
sauce. It should bake until curdled like an over-baked 
custard. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Mrs. James Hievevhjht, Ghnicester. 

One and a half cupsful of sugar, three-quarters of a 
cupful of butter, half a cupful of milk, two and a quarter 
cupsful of flour, three eggs, one and a half heaping tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, or a small teaspooidul of soda 
and two of cream of tartar. Bake in jelly-tins. Make 
caramel as follows : — Butter the size of an e^g, one pint 
of brown sugar, half a cupful of milk or water, half a cake 
of chocolate, boil twenty minutes and pour over the cake 
wdiile warm, piling the layers one upon the other. For 
frosting for tlie top of cake, take the whites of two eggs, 



552 



The Canadian Economist. 



one and a half cupsful of sugar, a teaspoonful of vaniJla, 
three heaping teaspoonsful of grated chocolate. 

QUAKER OMELETTE. 

Mrs. JamcH Sievcviyht, Gloucester. 

Three <'ggs, half a cupful of milk, one and a half table- 
spoonsful of corn starch, a teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of butter. Put the omelet pan and a cover that 
will iit close on to heat ; beat the ^^olks of the eggs, tlie 
corn starch and the salt very well together, rub the 
whites to a stifi' froth and add to the yolks, corn staich 
and salt. Stir all together veiy closely, then add the 
milk, ])ut the butter in the hot pan and when melte<l pour 
in the mixture, cover and place on the stove, where it 
will brown, but not burn, cook about seven minutes, fold, 
turn on a hot dish and serve with cream sauce poured 
around it. 

BACON. 

Family Friend. 

Bread, eggs and bacon, or beans and bacon furnish a 
compact dietary for muscular work. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE (AS TAUGHT IN TH K SCHiOL AT 

KENSINGTON). 

Family Friend. 

Take a shallot, three mushrooms and lialf a cnrrot 
and chop them up very finely on a board ; then put 
them with one ounce of butter, into a stew pan, place on 
the fire and fry the contents a good rich brown. Stir in 
one ounce of fiour, and half a pint of good biown stock ; 
add one spiig of th3me, a bay leaf and one tal)lespoonful 
of Harvey sauce, and stir the sauce well until it boils, 
then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it 
simmer for twenty minutes. Season the same with salt 



.i^g^inmr 



Milk Soiqy. 



553 



and pepper accordirjj; to taste, also add two tablespoons- 
ful of \ inegar. Strain the sauce and it is ready for use. 

CHLORIDE OF LIMK. 

Young Ladies Journal. 

In scattering,' eliloride of Jinie on a plnnk in a Rtabl(> all 
kinds of flies, but more especially bitinj^ flies, are (piickly 
got rid of, S[)rinklinjiif l)eds of vegetables with a weak 
solution of this salt effectually preserves them from catei*- 
pillars, slugs, i:c. It has the same effect when sprinkled 
on the foliage of fruit trees. A psjste of one ])art pow- 
dered chloride of lime, and one-half part of some fatty 
matter placed in a narrow band round the trunk of the 
tree, prevents insects from creeping up it. It has even 
been noticed that rats and mice quit places in which a 
certain quantity of chloride of lime has been spread. Tliis 
salt dried and finely powdered can no doubt be employed 
for the same purpose as flour of sulphur. 

MUSTARD SAUCE (VERY CJOOD WITH RolLED RKEF). 

YouiKj Ladies Journal. 

Two tablespoonsful of mustard mixed with a small tea- 
cupful of vinegar, two ounces of butter, one egg, and two 
lumps of sugar, and as much of the li(j^uid that the beef 
is boiled in as to mix it to the consistency of cream. Then 
boil as you would melted butter. 

MILK SOUP. 

Family Friend. 

Four large potatoes, two leeks, two ounces of butter, 
three tablespoonsful of crushed tapioca, one pint of milk. 
Put the potatoes and leeks, cut in lour, into a saucepan, 
with two quarts of boiling water, and the two ounces of 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and pepper to taste. Boil 



554 



Tlie Canadian Economist. 



an hour, run through a cohinder and return it to the 
saucepan, add the milk, sprinkle in tiie tapioca and let 
it boil fifteen minutes. 

FILLETS OF MACKEREL. 

Young Ladies Journal. 

Bone a mackerel, cut each fillet in two, dry them and 
sprinkle them freely with pepper and salt and chopped 
parsley; fry them in butter or lard. For the sauce, boil 
the bones, strain and thicken the broth, add the juice 
of a lemon to taste, serve under the fillets. Garnish with 
sliced gherkins. 

INK STAINS. 

Family Friend. 

Ink-stains in cotton and linen can often be removed by 
washing in salt and water (or in milk). This shoidd be 
done before the fabric is washed with soap. 

REMEDY FOR SORE THROAT. 

Family Friend. 

A domestic remedy for sore throat is sage, used as a 
gargle, with honey, alum, or any astringent. 

How TO BOIL A FOWL. 

Family Friend. 

Get a large stone jar with a clo.se-fitting lid, and hav- 
ing stuffed the fowl, using very small short skewers, put 
it in with half a pint of milk and water, or better still, 
good white stock, a little salt and a blade of mace. Place 
(m the lid and tie it down. Then put the jar into a deep 
saucepan or small boiler, with sufficient cold water to 
nearly reach the neck of the jar ; set it on the fire, and 
after it has .slowly " come to the boil," as the cooks say, 



allow it 
very suji 
the ordi] 

to SOU]) 



In nuj 
spare w 
into a j 
water, 
ful wlu'i 



lo 



k( 

wire tra 
and und 



Cut \ 
with w 
Boil un 
the pot 
tracted. 
having 
utes an' 



Beat 
utes ; 1 
suiall t 



Sponr/e Cake. 



|V V M' 

5oo 



allow it to simmer for one hour, A fowl so boiled will be 
very superior in flavour and appearance to one done in 
the ordinary way, and the stock in the jar can be added 
to soup stock or made into broth. 

WHITES OF EGGS. 

Fam'du Friend. 

In many households there are often whites of eggs to 
spare which are usually thrown away. If they are put 
into a jam pot and placed in a saucepan with boiling 
water, and boil for one hour ; they will prove most use- 
ful when cold, and may be used for salad. 

TO KEEP LEMONS. 

Family Friend. 

To keep lemons — let them lie loosely uncovered on a 
wire tray that will permit ciiculation of air on all sides, 
and undeineath. Keep them in a dry and cool room. 

POTTED CHICKEN, 

Mrs. John MacMUlan, Ottawa. 

Cut up two or more tender chickens. Place in a i)ot 
with water enough to cover, pepper and salt to taste. 
Boil until tender ; remove the bones. Put them back in 
the pot with the liquor, and boil until all the juice is ex- 
tracted. Strain and return to the pot with the chicken, 
having previously cut it in small pieces. Boil a few min- 
utes and place in buttered moulds. 

SPONGE CAKE 

MiHH Mary Scott, Oltaiua. 

Beat one pound of sugar and eight eggs twenty min- 
utes ; then by degrees add ten ounces of flour ; half fill 
sinall tins. Bake in a quick oven, 



556 



The Canadian Economist. 



A NICK DISH OF AIM'LKS. 

Mls8 Mary Scott, Ottawa. 

Peel and core ten or twelve nice hard applrs ; then ])ut 
in a flat saucepan about one pint of water with one enp 
of su<j^ar ; let it boil. Put in the apples and cover thciii, 
and let them boil till soft but not broken. Lift out tli" 
apples and put on a Hat dish. TA^t the syrup boil more 
and flavour with lemon or vanilla. (Jrate a little nutnicLj 
over the apples, and pour the .syrup over them. Fill the 
centre of the apples with a little red cunant jelly. Spreiul 
over all the beaten whites of two eggs. 

WHITK LILY t.VKK, 

AfisK Beccic Bniiton, Bradford, Pa. 

Take the whites of six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, 
three cupsful of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, three- 
fourths of a cupful of butter, two teas[)()onsful of cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. 

YELLOW LILY CAKK. 

J//.SVS Bf'ccie Bunion, Bradford, Fa. 

The yolks of six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, three cups- 
ful of flour, half a cupful of milk, two teaspoonsful of 
cream of tartar, one teas{)oonful of soda. 

LARDING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Have ready larding pins of different sizes, according tu 
the article to be done ; cut slices of bacon into bits of a 
proper length, quite smooth, and put on a larding needle 
to suit it, with which pierce the skin, with a very little of 
the meat, leaving the bacon in, and the two ends of equal 
length outwards. Lard in rows the size you think flt 



Gill ting. 



i>d( 



Tlic same eff*e(rt with ret^ard to flavour may hv prodiictMl 
Ity raising the skin ami laying aslii'c of fat hacon U»neatli 
it. Dauhing consists in passing hacoi riglit through meat, 
wliile lanlin*; is on tlie surface onlv. 



im.\FSIN<!. 

Mr». Thox. McKiiii. 

Put tlie meat you would liraisu into a stcwpati and 
cover it with thiclv sHees of fat bacon, then lay round it 
six or eiglit onions, a faggot of sweet lierbs, some celery, 
and if to be browned, some thick slices of carrots and 
trimmings of any fresh meat bones you have, with a pint 
and a half of water, or the same (juantity of stock, ac- 
cording to what the meat is, and add seasoning ; cover the 
pan close and set it over a slow stove, it will re(piire two 
or three hours, as its size and quality niay direct; then 
strain the gravy, keep the meat quite hot, take the fat oti' 
by plunging the basin into cold water, which will cause 
the fat to coagulate, and boil it as (juickly as you can, 
till it thickens. If however, you wish the gravy to ad- 
here to the meat, it must be still further thickened. 
Then with a brusii, kept for the purpose, do over the meat, 
and, if that has been larded, put it in the oven a few 
minutes. This is called glazing and is nmch used for made 
dishes. 

GLAZING. 

Mrs. Thus. McKay. 

(Hazing is done by brushing melted glaze or jelly over 
the article, and letting it cool. Tn some cases it is 
requisites to cover the articles with two or three coats of 
glaze, allowing each to cool as it is laid on. The glaze 
should be of a clear yellow brow^n and as thick as good 
treacle. If you have not the glaze ready, sift a little 
sugar over the article to be glazed and finish in the oven 
with a salamander or red hot shovel. 



.558 



The Cdnadiaa PJrmtomlst. 



nONINO. 

Mrs. Titos. McKdi/. 

Tn (lisengaginj^ tlic flosh from the bones, work tlic 
knife close to the hone and take care not to pierce the 
outer skin. 

ULANrHINCi. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Blanching makes tlie article plump and white and coii- 
Hists in putting it into cold water, over the lire, allowinji 
it to l)oil up and then plunging it into cold water, whi-rc 
the article should remain till cold. 



broken! 
ounce (I 
the beH 
put tlul 
continu 
the li<n| 
use. 
removil 
the ])ol| 
thick, II 
will lit! 



INVISIIiLE CKMENT. 



Mrs. Thos. McKay. 



Dissolve isinglass in spirits of wine by boiling. Tt will 
unite broken glass so as to render the crack invisible. 

FRENCH POLISH REVIVER (EXCELLENT). 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

The following mixture will be found to produce an ex- 
cellent polish for furniture, taking out the stains and 
cleaning it, as well as giving it great brightness ; one pint 
of raw linseed oil, four ounces of spirits of wine, one of 
spirits of salt, one of hartshorn, six of white wine vinegar, 
two of gum arabic, and the w^hites of two eggs; the two 
latter ingredients beaten together in a mortar, then add 
the oil and the other inirredients ; shake well tooether. 

FRENCH POLISH FOR BOOTS SHOES AND HARNESS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Mix together two pints of the best vinegar, and one 
pint of soft water, stir into it a quarter of a pound of glue 



Pick 
gallon 
sugar, 
when t 
should 



This 
cloves, 
tonqui] 
other i 
well tc 



Loai 
until i 
this pi 
too gri 



To Prppare Cava me/ or Bavnf ^urjav. 



n.lf) 



broken up, half a ])()un(l of l-^u; wood chips, a quarter of an 
ounce of finely powdered indigo, a quarter of an ounce of 
the best soft soap, and a (piarter of an ounce of isinglass ; 
put the niixtuie over the tire and after it conies to a l)«>il 
continue the hoilino- for ten niinutes more; tlien strain 
tlie li(iui<l and bottle and cork it. When cold it is fit for 
use. Before you apply this polish to boots, shoes, &c., 
remove the dirt with a spon<j^e and water, then put on 
the polish with a clean sponj^e. Shoidd you fin<l it too 
thick, hold it near the fire to warm a little and the heat 
will li(iuify it sufficiently to be used. 

SWEET oil APE WINE. 
Cassell's Household (iuUh\ 

Pick the (j^rapes as above, crush and strain, and to each 
gallon of juice add three Jind a (piarter pounds of lump 
sujLjar. Put it inniiediately into the cask, and bottle 
when the vines bloom the following summer. The grapes 
should be fully l)ut not over ripe. 

SCENT HAG. 

CasseIVs Household Guide. 

This will prevent moths injuring clotlies ; one ounce of 
cloves, carraway seeds, nutmegs, mace, cinnamon and 
tonquin beans, and of orris-root as much as will equal the 
other ingredients when put together. (Jrind the whole 
well together and put it into little silk bags. 

TO PREPARE CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR. 

Ga88elVs Household Guide. 

Loaf sugar is slowly and carefully heated over the fire 
until it melts and assumes a rich brown colour. During 
this process we must be very careful that the heat is not 
too great, otherwise the sugar will very quickly take fire. 



560 



The Canadian Econoinlst. 



Besides this, if the heat is too «j;;reat the caramel contracts 
a very bitter and disai^reeable taste. When the suorar is 
sufficiently boiled, water must be gradually added until 
the burnt sugar is dissolved, forming a deep brown iKjuid. 
I'his fluid is then to 1 e strained, while liot, through coarse 
linen and carefully pre> erved. This is used to give a rich 
brown tint to gravies. 

TO PllKPARE VERJUICE. 

Casscll s Household Guide. 

Press unripe grapes or gooseberries and strain the juice 
through a linen cloth, bottle it and expose it uncorked to 
the sun for six or seven days. The liquor will ferment, 
and the bottles must be filled u]) every morning. When 
the fermentation has ceased, decant the verjuice into 
other bottles. C/ork and store them for use. 

APPI.E BUTTER. 

Casselifi Household Guide. 

Fill a preserving pan with peeled, quartered and cored 
ny^ples, add cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, not too strong. 
Cover with good cider and boil slowly, mashing with a 
wooden spoon, until the whole becomes a dark, brown 
jam, with no more juice than can be pressed. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

1,0(M) Domestic Hints. 

Put a table spoonful of parsley-leaves and the same of 
capers into a mortar and beat them together ; add a table- 
spoonful of fresh mustard and three hard yolks of eggs, 
and properly mix the whole. Then add six anchovies 
boned and forced through a sieve, a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, two of oil and a tinely-cho[)ped shalot, and mix the 
whole. When to be used stir the sauce into half a pint 
of melted butter, or strong beef gravy. 



For 
Boil hi 
beat 
with 
an oui 
preser^ 



Beat 
add or 
haps a 
of pou 
oven. 



The 
made r 
using I 
mentiuj 
pound 
spoon f I 
of a C01 
cream, 
into a 
score it 
ten anc 
brisk o 
also. 



To ti 
lye for 
whitinj 
it, and 



To Take Stains out of Silver. 



561 



OYSTER CATSUP. 

For flavouring dishes when oysters are out of season 
Roil half a pint by measure of shelled oysters previously 
beat up in a mortar into a paste, half a ])int of molasses 
with a drachm of mace, half a drachm of pepper, and half 
an ounce of >jiU. When ready strain oft" the liquid and 
preserve it in wel]-sto})ped bottles. 

LAPLANDS, 

Beat separately the whites and yolkf^ of five eggs, and 
add one pint of rich cream nnd one pint of flour, or per- 
haps a little more — enough to make it of the consistency 
of pound-cake. Sake it in small round tins in a quick 
oven. 

G ALETTE. 

The galette is a favourite cake in l^'rance. It may be 
made rich and comparatively delicate or ([uite connnon by 
using more or less butter, and by diminishing or 'aug- 
menting the size. Work lightly three-quarters of a 
pound of '(ood butter into a pound of Hour, add a large 
spoonful of salt and make these into a ))aste with the yolks 
of a couple of eggs mixed with a small cupful of good 
cream, should it be at hand, if not, with water ; roll this 
into a complete round thiee-(|uarters of an inch thick, 
score it in small diamonds, brush yoke of egg over the 
top and bake the galette for about an hour in a tolerably 
brisk oven. It is usuallv eaten hot, but is served cold 
also. One ounce of siftc J sugar is sometimes added to it 

TO TAKE STAINS <JlT OF SILVER. 

To take stains out of silver, steep the silver in soaj - 
lye for the space of four liouis, then cover it over with 
whiting, wet with vinegar, so that it n»ay lie thick upon 
it, and dry it by a fire, after which rub ott' the whiting 

36 



562 



The Canadian Economist. 



and pass it over with dry bran and the spots will not 
only disappear, but the silver will look exceedingly bright. 

TO PERFUME LINEN. 

1,000 Domestic HinU. 

Rose leaves dried in the shade, or at about four feet 
Irom a stove, one pound; of cloves, carra way seeds and 
allspice, each one ounce, pound in a mortar or grind in a 
mill, dried salt a quarter of a pound ; mix all these to- 
gether and put the compound into little bags. 

TO COOK A BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut off the fat and place it on the gridiron first and 
when vyarmed set it on the lean, which is to be removed 
before tne fat. This makes the fat like marrow 




)^ 



not 
'hi. 




feet 
and 
in a 

to- 



HILLS OF I AHK R)R FAMILY MEALS. 







~v • 




and 




BREAKFAST. 




ved 




M;)NDAV. 






Toast, 
Slioetl Tomatoes, 
Bread, 


Tea and Ooft'ee, 

Wheat Meal Porridge, 

Lamb Chops, 

Melons. 

TI'E.SDAV. 


Muttins, 

Potatoes, 

Butter, 




Tomatoes, 
Johnny Cake and 

Molasses, 
Toast, 


Tea and Kaoka, 
Oat Meal Porridge, 
^'eal Cutlets, 
Peaches. 


Butter, 
Fried Potatoes, 
Bread, 



WEDNESDAY. 



Kg!,'8, 


Cotlee, 


Briad, 


3Iuthn8, 


Mush, 


Baked Potatoes, 


Toast, 


Fried Kidneys, 
Tomatoes. 


Rolls, 



Sweet Breads, 

Tomatoes, 

Rulls, 



THIRSDAY. 

(^'otieo and Chocolate, 
Wheat Meal Porridge, 
Hash, 
Water Melons. 



Boile«l Potatoes, 
Poached Eggs, 
Toast (buttered). 



564 



The Canadian Economist. 



Toast, 
Graham (Jems, 
Bread , 



FKIDAY. 

Tea and Kaoka, 
Oat Meal Porridge, 
Ham and Eggs, 
(jirapes. 



P'ried Potatoes, 

Tomatoes, 

Butter, 



Rolls, 

Corn Cake, 

Boston Brown Brown, 



SATl^RDAY. 

Coftee and Tea, 

Porridge, 

Fried Trout, 

Oranges. 



Butter, 

Potatoes, 
Poached Eggs, 



Muffins, 

Butter, 

Toast. 



8irNDAY. 

Cocoa and Kaoka, 

Porridge, 
Finnan Haddie, 
Marmalade. 



Fried Potatoes, 

Pickles, 

Bread, 



DINNER. 



Asparagus, 
Radishes, 
Young Carrots. 



MONDAY. 

Soup, 
Meat Pie, 
Bread Pudding, 
Melons, 
Biscuit, Clieese. 



Sweet Breads, 

Potatoes, 

Parsnips, 



Peas, 

Beans, 

Corn, 



Tl'ESDAY. 

P.arley Soup, 
Roast Baef and Baked 
Potatoes, 
Sago and A])ples 
Plums, 
Jelly Cako, Biscuits. 



Potatoes, 

Beets, 

Cucumbers, 



Bills of Fare. 



5g: 



WEDNESDAY. 

Parsnips, Vermicelli Soup, 

Carrots, Beef Steak, 

Tomatoes, Tapioca Pudding, 

Peaches, 
Ginger Cakes, Sugar Cakes. 



Sqiuish, 
I'otatoes, 
Boiled Onions, 



THURSDAY. 

Eirg Plant, Julien Soup, 

CauliHower, Fillett of Veal, 

Pickles, Bird's Nest Pudding, 

Grapes, 
Soda Biscuit, Cheese. 



Potatoes, 
Parsnips, 
Carrots, 



FRIDAY. 

Pickles, Tomato Soup, 

Parsnips, Boiled Leg of Mutton 
Turnips, with Caper Sauce, 

Custard Puddiuif, 
( )ranges. 



CMiocolate Cake, 



Merangues. 



Potatoes, 

Beets, 

Cabbage, 



Potatoes, 
Vegetable Marrow, 
Beets, 



SATURDAY. 

Soup with Macaroni, 



Salmon, 
Apple Pie, 
Jelly, 
Biscuit, Chocolate Cake 



Sweet Breads, 
Apple Sauce, 
Artichokes, 



SUNDAY 



Parsnips, 
Pickles, 
Baked Bread, 



Oyster St)up, 

Ri;ast Tmkej', 

Phun Pudding, 

Marmalade, 

Celory, Cheese. 



Cranberries, 

Potatoes, 

Turnips, 



5 CO 



The Canadian KconoiniHl. 



TEA. 



Kclls, 
Toast, 



MONDAY. 

Tea, Milk and CiTaiu, 
Cold Tongui', 

Chocolate Cake, 
Tomatoes. 



Muttered Toast 
Bread, 
Butter, 



Bread , 
Eggs, 
Laplands, 



TrESDAY. 

Tea, 

Pancakes, 

Maple Molasses, 

Jelly Cake, 

Sardines. 



Buttered Toast, 
Badishes, 
Butter, 



MufWns, 
Boston Brown Bread, 
Toast, 



WEDNESDAY. 

Tea, 

Canned Salmon, 

Eggs, 

Iced Cake, 

Peaches. 



Buttered Toast, 
Butter, 
Bread, 



Gems, 

Butter, 

Toa.st, 



THURSDAY. 

Tea, 
Fried Trout, 
^ Eggs, 
Cream Cake, 
Strawberry Preserve. 



Buttered Toast, 

Milk Bolls, 

Bread, 



T?road, 

Boils, 

Butter, 



FRIDAY. 

Tea, 
Jellied Chicken, 
Poached Egi's, 
Lemon Cake, 
Blueberry Preserve. 



Buttered Toast, 
Crullers, 
(ienis, 



Bread, 

Butter, 

Rolls. 



Bills of Fare. 

SATURDAY. 

Tea, 
Finnan Haddie, 

Fricasaed Oysters, 
Orange Cake, 

Crab Apple Preserve. 



567 



Buttered Toast, 

Crnnipeta, 

Gems, 



Biscuit, 
Rolls, 
Ginger Cake, 



SUNDAY. 

Tea, 

Sardines, 

Eggs, 

yruit Cake, 

Pear Preserve. 



Buttered Toast, 

Butter, 
Home-made Bread, 




A^ 



BLANK PAGES FOR NOTES, ETC. 



••Economy is the true source of Indepenence 
AMOUNT FOR EXPENDITURE. 



and LlberaUty." 



Expenses of the Table. 



569 



" ^^'" "'" '" nX?/y!^ES?5U5S gSSr.^« «^-p^-' '-^ -it. 



EXPENSES OF THE TABLE. 






The Canadian Economist. 



Give as thou hast received. 



BENEVOLENCE. 



PJiU'li Mantlin Sarivfjs. 



571 



• Time and Patience convert the MulDerry Leaf Into Satin" 



EACH MONTHS SAVINGS. 



■1 


1 1 


1 


\ i 



/' 



\1)1)KM)A. 



MIXKl) IM(M\LK. 

Mrs. (Mdffhciv) MarKen'li'U'l\ Kuian'd'nie. 

()iu!-liair <4all()ii liest vill»'•,^1^, two ounces of cinric 
])Ow<ler, two ounces oF salt, two ounces of niustanl, one 
ounce of garlic, one ounce ol" pale tui'nierick, a few small 
red peppers — foi- «;lieikins, caulitlowors, or anything else 
you wish to pickle. 

.IKLLV CAKK. 

Mrs. {Miiiihonr) MacK end rich, K[ M'nic. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one tai)iespoanful of 
cream, one cup of Hour, ont^ teaspoonful of soda, two of 
cream of tartai- ; beat tlu' yolks and sugar together ; l)eat 
up the wliites veiy light, put tliem in last; flavouring to 
taste. 

SHORT BRKAl), (m SCOTOH CAKK. 

Two pound.s of tloui', one pound of butter, one-half a 
])ound of brown sugar, knead well together. Bake on 
white paper, in a bake pan, in a moderate oven. 

LEM(^N inF<:s. 

Mrs. {Matthew) MacKendrick, KmcanUne. 

Have a good pie paste prepared ; two lemons, four eggs, 
twelve tablespoonsful of white sugar, one small teacup of 



Candy. 



573 



rrcain, butter tlie .size of an ej^'g. StjUeeze the juice of 
tlie two lemons and <T^rate the rind of on*; ; stii the yolks, 
su<,'ar, l)utt«'i", cream, juice and rind toijft'thcr, and liakc in 
rather a (|uiek oven. While the j)ies art- hakiiijLf, beat the 
whites to a stiff froth ; .spread it on the top of the pies 
and sprinkle a little white sugar over them and let them 
brown in the oven a little. 

CANDY. 

Mrs. Grt'(/ij, St. Lou Ik, U. S. 

Ill commemoration of (he " Candij I'tdl " at Springhank, >S7. Catha- 
rines, Dec. 11///, 1880. 

Four cupsful (jf sugar, two tablospoonsful of vinej^mr, 
three-(juarters of a cu[)ful of cream. Do not stir after it 
Vu'gins to boil ; flavour with Nanilla. Try it in cold water, 
and when it is crisp ])our into platters. 




• 




CONCLUSION. 



W 



E should like to apologise for culling sc freely from 
books and ni&,gazines, but the time given in 
which to get up this one was so short that originality ha'- 
been out of the question. We can only hope, therefore, 
that we shall be forgiven, and that the authors of thos(^ 
books from which we have copied will feel only honoured 
by the • selections we have made. Especially we feel 
indebted to the Home Messenger, Detroit, for the many 
recipes and hints which we have taken from its pages, an«1 
it is such an excellent book that wti could willingly have 
taken a great many moj'e. 

We have laid before our readei's many recipes which we 
trust will prove good and useful and pleasing to the popu- 
lar taste. Here we are reminded of an anecdote of a ser- 
vant of the late Hon. Thos. McKay, of New Edinburgh, 
(which a friend is fond of relating). During the absence 
of Mr. McKay and his family in England, one year, some 
of the " officials " kept bachelor's hall, and lived well. 
Paddy was ordered, one morning, to kill a fine sucking 
pig for dinner. Shortly after he was see!i trudging across 
the yard with a stick slung over his shoulder from which 
hung the pig, and singing most lustily — 

" O, 'tis nothing but a \tv^ 
Oraj^oose everyday." 

W^e have set before you recipes for cooking a pig and a 
goose and various other savory dishes, and now we leave 
them with our readers, glad that the " Cookery Book " ia 
finished at last. 



roin 
I in 

ore, 

red 
feel 
any 
an«^ 
ave 



we 
pii- 
>ei--- 



o-f 



ice 
me 
el). 

^^ 
ich 



[ a 
ve 




CHA 



Notes oi 
CofTee./ 
C«)ffee a 
To Male 
To Mat 
Coffee, 
How to 
Mode o 
Vienna < 
Chocolal 
Making 
Coffee 
Boy's Cf 
Kaoka C 
Coffee.. 
Coffee.. 
Teas .. 



Cock-a-I 
To Makt 

lfo(lge-P 
Pea Soni 
Bean So 
Vegetal)] 
Turkish 
White SI 
Pea Souj 
Fish Sou 
Lohster 
White S( 
German 
Swiss So; 
Mutton ] 
Another 
Beef Bro: 




INDEX. 



CHAPTER I. — Tea, Coffee, Chooolate, Cocoa and Kaoka. 



PA(iE 

.. 1 



Notes on Coffee 

Coffee..*. 

Coffee and Milk 

To Make Essence of Coffee 

T(. Make Coffee 

Coffee, French FuHhion 3 

How to Make Hui)erior ( 'offee . . . 

Mode of Making Coffee 

Vienna ( 'offee 

Chocolate 

Making Coffee 4 

Coffee 5 

Boy's Coffee 5 

Kivoka Coffee 5 

CU>ffee (i 

Coffee (» 

Teas 7 



Page 

English Breakfast or Oolong 7 



BltvckTea. 

To Mix Tea 

An excellent Knl)stitute for milk 

or cream in Tea or Coffee 

To Make a oip of good Tea.. 

TheXTseof Tea 

To Make Tea 

Chocolate 



7 
K 

8 
8 
« 
9 
9 

10 

German ( 'hocolate 10 

Chocolate .'. 10 

To Make Chocolate 10 

( 'hocolate 11 

Cocoa 11. 

" 11 



CHAPTER II.— Soups. 



Cock-a-Leekie Soup 12 

To Make good Brown Sonp l.\ 

Hodge-Podge IH 

Pea Soup 14 

Bean Soup 14 

Vegetable Soup 14 

Tiukish Soup 14 

White Stock 15 

Pea Soup 15 

Fish Soup 15 

Lobster Sonp 1(5 

White Soup 17 

German Soup 17 

Swiss Soup 17 

Mutton Broth 18 

Another way for an Invalid 18 

Beef Broth 18 

37 



Meagre Lroth with roots 18 

Hunter's Soup 19 

Glaze 19 

Brown Hahhit Soup 20 

(;iiblet Soup 20 

Plain Beef Soup 21 

t\. Rich Soup 21 

Kidney Soup 21 

Moc^k "Turtle Soup . 22 

Brown Soup 22 

Beef Soup 22 

Simple White Soup 23 

Tomato Soup 23 

Vegetable Sonp 23 

Potato Soup 24 

Bean or Pea Soup 24 

Soup from a cold roaut bone 24 



576 



Index. 



Page TAcr. 

Barley Soup 25,Oyfiter Soiip No. 2 2!J 

Oyster Soup 25 " " No. 3 2t» 

Bone Stock for Soup 26;Clain Soup .'.0 

(ieneral Stock pot. . .■ 26 Celery Soup :{() 



«pper 



Pot 27iTo Make Rub-a-Boo. 



;«» 

To Clarify StockH or Soups 27| White Soup 30 

Corn Souj) 2S'Tomato Souj) HI 

Sorrel Soup 28iTomato Soup with Meat 'M 

Croutons 28| Anyel Soup 31 

UyHter Soup 29 Simnish Soup 32 

CHAPTER III. - Oystehs. 



Oysters 33 

Oysters 33 

To Scallop Oysters 33 

Pickled Oystei-s 34 

Stewed Oysters (plain) 34 

C!old Sauce for Oysters 34 

I'o Fricassee Oysters 34 

Oyster Pie ;i5 

Stewed Oystei-s 3-5 

Fried Oysters 3(5 

Oyster Fritters 37 

Fried Oysters 37 



To Frica-ssee Oysters 3S 

To Brown Oysters in their own 

Juice 3S 

Unsurpassed Fricasseed Oysters . ;W 

Oyster Patties 38 

Broiled Oysters ^ . . .W 

To Stew Oysters 39 

Oyster Pie 40 

Oyster Omelet 40 

Raw Oysters 41 

Chicken and Oyster Crotpiette ... 41 



CHAPTER IV. -CI.AMH, CnAB.s and Lo. .^teks. 



To Co(^ Clams 42 

Devilled Crabs 42 

To Dress Boiled Crabs 42 

To Choose Crab 43 

Oab Curry 43 

Fried Clams 44 

A Fricassee of Lobsters 43 



To make Crab Pie 44 

Clam Fritters 44 

The Crab 44 

Dressed Crab 45 

Scalloped Crab 46 

Lobster Curry 45 



CHAPTER v.— Fish and Frogs. 



General Remarks on Fish 

ToFrvFish 

To boil Fresh Shad and other Fish 

To Fry Salmon Steaks 

Turbot 

Fresh Mackerel (boiled) 

To Fry Fish 

Broiled Salmon Trout 

Haddock Fried > 

Haddock Baked 

Boiled Salt Mackerel 

Boiled Fresh Mackerel 

To Cook Finnan Haddies 

Baked Black Bass 

Fried Mackerel 

St«wed Fish 



48 Spiced Fish 52 

48 Cream Trout 5;i 

48 Stewed Codfish 53 

49 Stewed Halibut 54 

49 Fresh Salmon (boiled) 54 

Fresh Salmon (fried) 54 

Dried (Jodfish 55 

Pickled Fish 55 

To Broil a Whitefish 55 

How to Bake a Fish 55 

To Bake Fish in a tin Dish 57 

To Fry Fish 57 

Broiled Salmon 57 

Curried Fish . . 57 

Fish 58 

Herring^ Boiled 58 



49 
50 
50 
50 
50 
51 
51 
51 
51 
52 
52 



Tncl( 



577 



Paue. pAt;E 

Sturgeon Steak 59jTo Pot any sort of Fixli HI 

Baked Sturgeon oO To Fry Fresh Fiwh 61 

FilletH of Miickerel HOlTo Boil Fresh J'ish 61 

Sahnon Cutlets 60JPickleil Fish 62 

Excellent way to drens Finnan iFish Chowder 62 

HaddieH. .' 60 Frogs 62 

Another Way 60!Tlie Edible Frogs .' . 62 

CHAPTER VI.-Savolrv Sauces. 



iJlen;,'arry Sauce (54 

Chutna Saiice (i4 

Horse HadiHh Sauce (54 

Chilli Sauces (55 

(irreen ^ Gooseberry Sauce 05 

White Sauce (5(5! 

Cucumber Sauce 6(5 

Browniu'^' for Sauces (56 

Lemon Pudding Sauce (56 

Creen Mayonnaise (5(5 

Mint Sauce (57 

('anliflower Sauce (>7 

Egg Sauce (58 

Parslev Sauce, (58| 

Fried Parsley (58! 

Fennel Sauce (59 

Fine (Jnion Sauce (59 

Plain Onion Sauce (59 

Nasturtium Sauce (591 

To Brown Flour 70j 

Brown Butter 70! 

Drawn Butter, r 70! 

(Japer Sauce 71 

Oyster Sauce 71 

Cranberry Sauce 71 

Sage and Onion Sauce 72 

White Thickening 72 

Browning 7H 

Celery Sauce 73 

Horse Radish Saiice T-V 

('arrier Sauce 74| 

Poor Man's Sauce 74 

Sauce Robert 74 



Chilli Sauce 74 

Worcester Sauce 75 

Fresh Tomato Sauce 75 

Another Tomato Sauce 75 

Lemon Sauce for Boiled Fowls . . 75 

To ( Visj) Parsley 76 

Prince Alfred's Sauce 76 

Butter Sauce 7(5 

Orange Sauce for Game 7(5 

Garlic Sauce 77 

Mint Sauce for I^amb ..... 77 

A very good and \iseful White 

Sauce 77 

Governor's Sauce 78 

Chilli Sauce 78 

Cream Sauce 78 

Melte<l Butter 78 

I !old Sauce for Fish 79 

Garlic Water *. . 79 

Pepper Vinegar 79 

Pepper Vinegar and Tarragon 

V inegar 79 

Mint Vinegar 80 

Maitre d'hotel Butter 80 

Horse-Badish Sauce 80 

Egg Sauce 80 

Bread Sauce 80 

Horse-Uadish Sauce 81 

Sauces 81 

Roux 82 

Brown Roux 82 

Pifinant Sauce 82 

Fennel Sauce 83 



CHAPTER Vir.- Bek>', Salt ani> FiJEsH. 



Roast Beef and Yorkshire Pud- 
ding 84 

Beef A-la-mode 84 

Minced Meat 85 

To make minced ( 'allops 85 

To Pot a leg of Beef 85 

Fillet of Beef with Sauce Hollan- 

daisQ 86 



To make Beef Tender 87 

Stufferl Beefsteak 87 

Stuffed Beef.steak 87 

Beef Cutlets 87 

Beef Cutlets Sauti< 88 

Tripe 89 

Beef Brose 89 

Curried Beef bU 



578 



Index, 



Hunter's Beef , 

Larded Beef 

Soused Beef 

Beef Smoked (Hamburg) 

Rib of Beef 

Beef Pasty 

Fillet of Beef roasted and larded 

Beef Loaf 

To Stew a round of Beef 

Best way to ('ook a Sirloin Steak 

To Cook Beefsteak 

Spiced Beef 

Spiced Round of Beef 

Scarlet Beef 



a<;k Page 

IH) Scarlet Beef 95 

CH) To Pot Beef flo 

91 To Red a Rump of Beef 9« 

91iTo (.\.llar Beef {'(J 

01 Beef Liver for Gravy 9H 

91 To Roast a Fresh Tongue 97 

92 To Dress a Bullock's Heart 97 

92 Beef Olives 97 

92 To prejiare a Round of Beef for 

*Xi baking 98 

94 Beefsteak Dumpling 98 

94 To preserve meat in summer 98 

94 Beef 99 

95 Meat (ilaye in a hurry 100 



CHAPTEH VlU-PoRK AND Hams. 



To Boil a Ham 101 

Or to Serve Hot 101 

To Steam Bacon 102 

Tu Salt Larding Bacon 102 

To Steam a Ham 102 

To Boil Bacon lO.'i 

' Pork Tender Loins 103 

To Broil Salt Pork WH 

To Fry Salt Pork lOli 

To Bake Salt Pork 104 

Pork and Beans 104 

Cheshire Pork Pie lo4 

Sausage 10") 

Lard 100 

To Pickle Pork 106 

Fried Ham 107 

Plans for making the most of a Pig 107 
Rinds and Sausage 'J'rinmiings . . . 107 

The Bones 107 

A Roast of Pork 107 

Leg of Fresh Pork Roasted 108 

Pork, Spare Ribs 108 

Sucking Pig 108 

Roast Pig 108 

Pork Cutlets 109 

Fillet of Pork 110 

Pig's Cheek (anew method) Ill 

Loin or Neck of Pork, Xormandy 

Fashion Ill 

Spare Rib of Pork Ill 

Hind-(piarter of Sucking Pig 112 

Salt Pork 112 



Italian Pork, 

Pork Olives 

Pig's Feet and Ears 

Pig's Fry 

Glaze for Hams 

I Pork Jelly 

Toasted liashers of Bacon 

Ham Toast 

Pork Jelly 

To Fry Ham 

Fried Salt Pork 

To Boil Ham 

Tripe Fried 

White Tripe 

Trijie Roasted 

Tripe Boiled 

Tripe for Invalids 

Fricasseed Tripe 

Tongue 

Fresh Ox Tongue 

Tongue, Boiled 

Tongue, Baked 

( 'arviuL' of Tongue 

Rolled Tongue 

The Value of Vinegar in Econo- 
mical Cookery 

So\i8e 

Scrapple 

Head Cheese 

Souse 

(^old Meat Turn-overs 

Cooking Cold Ham 



112 
ll;i 

n-A 

114 
114 
114 
115 
110 
116 
116 
117 
117 
117 
118 
118 
118 
119 
119 
120 
120 
120 
121 
122 
122 

122 
123 
123 
124 
124 
124 
124 



CHAPTER IX.—Vbal and Sweet Breads. 

To Roast a Fillet of Veal 125 Minced Veal 126 

Veal 125 Veal Stuffing 126 

Frjed Veal Cutlets 120 Fillet of Ve^vl 127 



Index. 



579 



Veal Cutlets for the Aged. . . . 

Brown Kagoiit «;f Veal 

Marbled Veal 

Minced Veal 

Veal ('utlets 

Sweet-breads (fried) 

Sweet-breads (broiled) 

Sweet-breads (roasted) 

Jellied Veal 

Minced Veal and Macaroni . . . 

Sweet-broad.'^ 

Baked (!alfs Feet 

Veal Rolls 

Fricandette 

Rolarde of Veal 

Seasoned t'utlets 

Plain Veal (Outlets 

Veal Marsden 

Veal 

Fillets of Veal 

Calf's Liver 

(Jrilled Calf's Liver 

lloast ("alf's Liver 

Uroiied Veal Cutlets 

To Fricassee a Breast of Veal. 

Veal I^iver Pat^ 

Boast Veal (rec(M)ked) 

Fricasee of Knuckle of Veal. . 



'a(se| . P 

127 Veal Sweet-breads (larded) 

128 Veal Sweet-breails (stewvd) 

1281 Veal Sausages 

128|Veal Stewed with Apples 

129 Veal Pie with Sausage 

121»!Veal Pluck 

12?) Veal I'udding, baked 

l:WlVealPie 

130'Sweetbread Pie 

130 (JalfM Head 

l:U|Calf'8 Head Cheese 

l.UJTo Roast a Breast <.f Veal 

i:V2 Scalloped Veal 

1H2| Minced Veal with Poached Egi^s. 

1H2 Veal and Pork Pie 

i:«l Fried Veal Patties 

133 Veal Sweet-breads 

llWJCurry Powder 

134|CurrV I'owder No. 2 

134 To Make Curry 
134 " ■ 
134 
l.V) 
1.35 
1.3;") 



Curry 

Curry Satice 

To Boil Rice for Curry. 

Essence of Chiny 

India C-urry 

1.3<i:( -urried Fowl 

13»>| Curried Dishes 

137' 



A(iK 

137 
137 
138 

im 

l:i8 
138 
139 
i;)9 
MU 
140 
141 
141 
141 
142 
142 
142 
143 
143 
143 
144 
144 
144 
145 
145 
14(J 
146 
146 



CHAPTER X.— Mutton and Lamb. 



Mutton and Lamb 148 

To Boil a Leg of Mutton 148 

Baked Mutton 148 

Fri«d Mutton ( 'hops 149 

Roast Leg of Mutton 149 

Fillet of Mutton with Vegetables 149 

Hashed Mutton with Fried Eggs 149 

A Stewed Neck of Mutton. . .... 149 

Boiled Mutton. 1.50! 

Lamb 1.50 

I^amb Cutlets 1.50 

Lamb Sweetbreads 151 

A Saddle of Mutton 151 

Mutton Pasty 151 

Devonshire Pie. ." 1.52 

Roast Mutton and Lamb 1.52 

I..anib's Head, Liver and Heart. 153 

Saddle of Mutton 1.53 

Boned Quarter (»f Lamb 1.54 

Haimcb of Mutton . 154 



Mutton and Lamb 154 

Tongues or Udders 15-5 

Leg of Mutton Roasted with Oys- 

tei-s , 1-5.5 

Scotch Haggis 155 

Mutton Rolled 156 

Slices of Mutton (with cream). . . 1.56 
Quarter of Land3 (roasted and 156 

larded) 

Lamb 157 

Tianib Pasty 157 

Land) Chops (broiled) 1.57 

Kidney Dumplings 1.57 

Kidneys 1.58 

Beef kidneys 1.58 

Rolled Loin of Mutton 1.58 

(Jlazed ( )nions 1.59 

Lamb's Fry 1-59 

Irish Stew 160 

jSheep's Trotters 160 



580 



Index. 



CHAPTER X[.— Poultry and Gamk. 



i'AOK 

Game Pie for Chriutinns l(il 

Crumbs for Game 1(11 

Force-meat for Game lO'J 

Game Pattie« 162 

English Game Pie KJ2 

Game SanHajjje l<»;i 

To Remove 'i'aiiits from (lamc . . Hi'A 
Prairie C'hickeuH, Partridge and 

Quail 163 

Baked Pigeons 104 

Boiled Pigri(»nK 1(>4 

Quail Pie 1«4 

Wild Pigeon Pie 1«>4 

Wild l)uck« lOo 

Roast Duck (wild) 1(55 

Quail Roasted with Ham 165 

Hunter's Reciiie fur Roasting' Par- 
tridges 166 

Fric isse***} Turkey 166 

(.'hicken and Ham Pie 167 

Fowl stuffed with Oysters 167 

To Boil a Turkey . '. 167 

Potted Fowl 168 

Chicken Giblet Pie 168 

Rabbits or Hare 1(»8 

To Roast a Rabbit 1(59 

Ducks 169 



Page 

To Roast Partridges 169 

Roast Turkey 170 

Broiled Chickens 170 

Turkeys 170 

Chickens and Tongues . 171 

Fowls 171 

Chickens 172 

Venison 12 

To Roast a Turkey or Chicken. . . 172 
A Nice AVay to Cook Pigeons.. . . 173 

Roast Goose 173 

iTo Cook old Fowl 175 

Fried Venison 175 

Gravy for Venison 175 

Venison Steaks (broiled) 175 

Pastry for Venison Pasty 176 

Venison Pasty to keep for some 

time 177 

Wholesomeness of Venison 177 

Dressing for Turkeys 177 

Dressing for Turkeys 178 

Dressing for Geese and Ducks .... 178 

To Bone a Turkey or Fowl 178 

Cutlets of Venisrm 179 

Cream Sauce for a Hare 180 

; Scotch Woodcock 180 



CHAPTER Xri.— Veoetables. 



The Tomato 

To Steam Potatoes 

To Boil Potatoes 

To Boil Potatoes with their skins 



on. 



To Mash i'otatoes 

To Boil New Potatoes 

Fried Potatoes 

To B..il Potatoes 

Baked Potatoes 

Potatoes h, la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Mashed Carrots 

To Boil Asparagus 

Stewed Vegetable Marrow . . . 

Turnips in White Sauce 

Broiled Vegetable Marrow. . . 

Parsnip Fritters 

Sweet Potato Pone 

( 'elery with Cream 

Fried Potatoes 

Greens 

Fr«nch BeauB 



181 Onions 

181 Stewed Endive 

l^l Stewed Water Cress 

Tomato Sauce 

182!Sea Kale 

1 82; Vegetable Puree 

l-S:i|Asparagu.s Stewed 

183; ( 'reaming Potatoes 

183! Potato Puff 

184 j Spring Vegetables and how to Cook 

1841 them ." 

184'Oyster Plant 

184; < 'ooking Carrots 

l85iRadishes 

185jEscaloped Tomatoes 

i85rro Stew ('abbage 

186 Egg-plant 

186 Brussels Sprouts 

18(5 ('ucumbers 

187 Sea Kale 

187 Windsor Long Poils or broatl 

188 Bc.an» 



18*" 
189 
189 
)89 
190 
190 
190 
190 
191 

191 
191 
192 
192 
192 
192 
193 
193 

laj 

194 
194 



Stewe 

To Bo 

Tumi 

Beets 

Egg 

Veget 

Tiimai 

Kidne 



IndeM. 



581 



Paokj ^ pAor 

Stewed Onioils 194tBoile(1 feeetn 199 

To Boil Potatoes 194ilioilcd Sea-Kale 199 

Turnipa 195:Stewe(l Punn)kin 199 

BeetH 195|Stewed Mii!sliroom« 'JOO 

Kgg Plant KWiBaked Beans 1'0() 

Vegetables 1% Vej,'etal)le Marrow 201 

Lima and Butter Beans 19KiTomftt<ies aw a Medicine 202 

Kidney and other small Beans. . . IIH) 

CHAPTER XIII. -Yeast, Bread and Bim m. 



Yeast, Bread and Biscuit 204 

Yeast 204 

Home-made Yeast 204 

Wheat Bread 205 

To make Yeast Cakes 205 

Brown Bread 205 

Graham (Jems 206 

French Rolls 20(j 

(rraham Bread 206 

Hot Cross Buns 206 

Diet Bread 207 

Spanish Buns 207 

Vienna Rolls 207 

Parker House Rolls 208 

Potato Rolls 208 

Parker House Rolls 208 

Boston Brown Bread 209 

English Biscuits 209 

Graham Gems 209 

Baker's Bread 209 

Yeast 210 

Hop Yeast 210 

Potato Yeast 211 

Buns 211 

Brown Rolls 211 

Rye Bred 211 

Rye Biscuit... 212 

Rye Rolls 212 

Brown Bread 212 



Wheaten Bread 212 

Another Way 213 

Biscuits 213 

Corn Bread 213 

Bread 213 

Corn and Wheat Bread 214 

Home-made Yeast 214 

Rice Bread 214 

Potato Yeast 215 

Gems , 215 

Yea.st 215 

Buns 215 

Biscuit 216 

'Home made Yeast 216 

Graham Gems 216 

Scons 216 

Excellent German Buns 217 

Hermit Biscuit 217 

Biscuit 217 

Bread Dough Buns 217 

Corn Bread 218 

Hard Biscuits 218 

French Rolls 218 

Yeast Bread 218 

English Seed Bread 219 

Diet Bread 219 

Bath Buns 220 

Graham Bread 220 



CHAPTER XIV. - Tea and Bkkakfast Cakes. 



Corn Cake 221 



Tea Cake 221 

Bebecca's Cake 221 

Strawberry Short Cake 221 

Pop-over Cakes 222 Election Cake 

Velvet Cake 222'Corn Cake 



Common Cake 223 



Sponge Coke 222 

1, 2, 3, &4 Cake 222 



Corn Starch Cake 223 

Spice Cuke 223 

Ellen's Cake 224 

224 
224 



Corn Starch Cake 224 

AJountain Cake 225 



Cake 222 Mill-mad Cake 225 

Cocoa-nut Cake 223 Matrimony 225 



6S2 



Index. 



Queen Cake 

(Join Starch Patty Pans 

Sally LuniiH 

Strawberry Short Cake 

Cocoa-nut Cake 

Orange Short C*ake 

C^entennial Cake 

Court Cake 

Currant Cake 

Queen's C!ake 

(Water Corn Cakes 

Velvet Cake 

Sugar ( 'ake 

Potato ( -ake 

BuKh Cake 

Johnny ( -ake 

Strawberry Short Cuke 

Cocoa-nut ('ake 

Sponge Cake 

Cream Muffins 

Cup Cakes 

Coffee Cake 

Nut Cake 

Molasses Cake 

ijorn Starch ( "ake 

Muffins 

Milk Toast 

Corn Oysters 

Waffles 

French Toast 

Cream Cakes 

Do do (continued) 

Pop-overs 

Puffs 

Mc(iinnis Cake 

Marble (. !ake 

Good Cup Cake, 

(iraham Flour IJreakfast Biscuit. 

Corn Meal ( 'ake 

Feather (Jake 

Cocoa Nut Cake 

Surprise Cake 

Corn Starch Cake 

Corn Starch Cake 

Delicate Cake 

Parliament Cakes 

Potato Puff 

Butterriut Cake 

Seed Biscuits 

Perth Cake 

Dessert C'akes 

Passover ('akea 

Scotch Cake 

Sweet Biscuits 



AC.K Pace 

225 Clove Cake 238 

225 (iraham Flour Muffins 238 

220 (^oru Starch Cake 238 

226 Roly-poly 239 

226 Coffee Cake 239 

226 Real Plantation Johnny Cake. . . . 23!» 

227 Old Maid's Cake 2.S9 

227 ( 'ream SiM)nge Cake 240 

227 Mountain < ^ake 240 

227 Oldfiwhioned Short-cake 240 

227 (Uove (^ake 240 

228 R«)ck Cake 240 

228 Sponge Cake 241 

228 Jelly (,'ake 241 

228 (Jhocolate ( 'ake 241 

228 Prince of Wales Cake 241 

22'.> Hickory Nut Cake 241 

22'.) Roll Jelly Cake 242 

229iCup Cake 242 

22.»!Tea Cake, No. 2 242 

229iRice Cake 242 

2;iO Silver Cake 242 



230 
23:) 
230 
231 
231 
231 
231 
232 
232 
232 



Bachelor's ('om Cake 243 

C^ream Cake 243 

Coffee Cake 243 

Corn Starch Cake 243 

Jenny I jind Cake. .. . 244 

Mohisses ( 'ake 244 

Nice Delicate C^ake 244 

Indian Corn Cake 244 

Pop-overs 244 

(.Chocolate (.'ake 245 

232!Drop Cake 245 

233!liemon CJake 245 

2.33 Banbury Cakes 245 

2.33 Sugar Cakes 246 

233 1 Small Plum Cakes 246 

234|Soda Biscuits 246 

234 Snow Cake 246 



234 
2:M 
235 
2;{5 
235 
235 
236 
236 
236 
236 
237 
237 
237 
237 
238 



Spiced Cake 247 

Muffins 247 

Shrewsbury Cakes 247 

Wafer Biscuit to Ornament a 

Cream, &c 248 

Cakes 247 

Savoy Biscuit 247 

Sponge Biscuit 249 

Two Egg Cake (good) 248 

Composition Cake 249 

Muffins 249 

Raised Cake 249 

Sugar Cakes 249 

Ground Rye Sponge Cake 250 

Sally liunn-- 250 



Potat 
To mi 
Rice 
ALig 
Corn 
G raha 
Silver 
Seed 



Index. 



583 



PaokI Paob 

Potatoe Cakes 'iSOOornCake 2(U 

To make Kuflks 'jrjO^Snda ( 'ako 'liW 

Kice Potjiid Cakes 'iol Jumbles '^iOl 

A I.ightSe^'d Cake. ... 251 SponRe Cake for Jelly Roll 261 

Corn Starch Cake 252 Rice Cake.s 261 

Graham Cake» 252 Graham Puff« 262 

Silver Cake 252;I)r(.i) ( 'akes 262 

Seed Cake 252 Soda ( 'akt'H 262 

Cocoa-Nut Cako 2.52 Breakfast Muttins 262 

Fife Cake 25:$ To make a Nice Plain Cake 262 

Tea Cake 253 Jelly Cako 263 

Sponge Cake 253!Lemon Cake 263 

Delicate t;ake 253' Rail Koad C^ake 263 

Marbled Cake 25;V Johnny (\'vke 2W 

Corn Starch ( 'ako 2r>4^Silver Cake 264 

Mountain ('ake 254|Tea C'akes 264 



Chocolate ('ake 



254 Pop-Overs 264 



Marble Cake 254 Tumbler (^ake 264 

Corn Starch Puffs 2.55 Delicate (.'ake 265 

Drop Cakes 255 Breakfast Cakes 265 

Imperials 255 Graham Pop-Overs 265 

Cocoanut Cake 255 Imlian Meal (iriddle Cakes 265 

Patty (.'akes 25(>}Delicate Cake 265 

Princess (Jakes 2o(i Jumbles 265 

Sandwich Cake 2.5()|Cake 26(J 

Corn Starch C'ake 2.i6|Cream Pan-cakes 266 

Graham Muffins 257!French Pan-cakes 266 

An Excellcr Cake 257iPlain Pan-cakes 267 

Corn-Starch Jake 257 Buckwheat Cakes 267 

Plain Cake 257|Buckwheat Cakes (another way) 267 

Coffee Cake 258' Raised Buckwheat Cake.s 268 

Potatoe Cake 258, Light Rye Tea (y'akes 268 

Tea Cake 258 Rye Drops or Muffins 268 

Cocoa-nut Cake 258! Rye I)roj)s Fried like Dough-nuts 268 

Cream Cake 258 Rye Grid(lle(!akes 269 

Tea Cako 259 Rye Rolls 269 

Strawberry Short-Cake 259 Hoe Cakes 269 

Rice Flower Cakes 259 Risen Flannel Cake 269 

Jumbles 2.59|Saratoga Tea Cakes 270 

Buckwheat Cakes 260 Cai)ital Oatm«al Cakes 270 

Manna Cakes 260 Plain Seed Cake 270 

TeaCake 2(K) Crumpets 271 

Breakfast Rolls 260 Bout Cakes 271 

Corn-Starch Cake 260| 






CHAPTER XV. -Mush, Oatmeal, Rick. 

How to Make Munh 272} Rice 274 

Corn Miish 273|Rice Souffle 274 

Splendid Oat Cake 273iBoiled Rice 275 

Oatmeal Cake 273Uiice " 

To Mix Oatmeal 2731 Rice 

Cracked Wheat 274;Rice 



Biscuit ■. 276 

Blancmange. 276 

Blancmange , . . . . 27Q 



38 




m 



Ind* 



<€'tJut 



CHAPTER XVI. -Macaroni. 

Paob! Paok 

Macaroni 277' How to Boil and DrewH Macaroni 27!t 

Macaroni 277 Macaroni 280 

Macaroni 277 Macaroni Pudding to be Madu of 

Excellent Macaroni 278i Cooked Meat 280 

Macaroni 278 KhIi and Macaroni 280 

Macaroni as Usually Served 278 1 o Serve Macaroni 5281 

Macaroni Omelet 270 Macaroni un (iratin 281 

Macaroni Pudding 270 Macaroni Dressed Sweet 281 

CHAPTER XVII.— Euds. 



To Keep Eggs Fresh 282 

Stuffed Kg(,'« '-^82 

Pickled Eggs 2H2 

Cupped Eggs 28;< 

Pickle for Eggs 28.S 

To Pickle Eggs 28;{ 

To Keep Eggs 284 

To Fry Eggs 284 

Egg (Jheese 284 

Packing Eggs 28") 

Eggs and Satisage 28.') 

EggB and Cucumbers 285 

Fricassee of Eggs 28.') 

Eggs Like Tripe 28G 

Eggs and Onions 286 



Eggs and Potatoes 28(5 

Heating Kggs 287 

E-gs J broiled 287 

Eggs Fricasseed 287 

Steamed Eggs 288 

Spun Eggs 288 

Curried Eggs 288 

To Keep E^'gs 288 

To Pickle Eggs 289 

Egg Omelet. 289 

Kgg Rolls 289 

Eggs with Asi)aragua 289 

Eggs and Anchovies (in savory 
jelly) 290 



CHAPTER XVIII.— Salads. 



Salad 291 

Lobster Salad 291 

Chicken Salad 292 

Lobster Salad 292 

Chicken Salad 292 

Salad Mixture 292 

Centennial (Cabbage Salad 292 

Dressing for Salad 293 

Chicken Salad 293 

Salad 294 

8alad 294 



Fresh Tomatoes 294 

Simple Potato Salad 294 

Chicken Salad 295 

Miss Smith's Mayonnaise 296 

Boiled Salad 296 

Salad Dressing 296 

Every Day Salad 296 

Fried Eggs for Salad 297 

Salad for Winter 297 

Cauliflower Salad 298 



CHAPTER XIX.— Pastry and Pies. 

Cream Pie 299!Jelly Tarts • 301 

Apple Custard Pie 299iLemon Pie 301 

Orange Pie 2<)9:Real Cream Pie ;302 

Apple Meringue Pie 300 Fine Puff Pastry 302 

Cream Pie 300 Chicken Pot Pie 302 

Lemon Pie 300 Lemon Pie 302 

Lemon Pie 301;Corn Starch Pie 303 

Apple Custard Pie 301 Apple Pies 303 



Index. 



585 



Paoe 

Cream Pie ms 

Sea- Foam Pie :<04 

Lemon Pies 304 

Economical Piwtry 304 

Puff Paste witli Milk .'i04! 

Pie-Plant Pie 305 

liemon Pie 305 

Lemon Pie 305 

Cheese Pie 305 

Mince Meat 306 

Orange Pie tm 

Mince Meat 1^ 

Lemon Pie 306 

Chicken Pie 307 

Lemon Pie 307 

Cream Pie 307 

Custard Pie 308 

Apple Pie 3081 

Apple Pie 308| 

Apple Pie 3081 

Vermicelli Pie 309 

Oyster Pie 309, 

Mince Meat WOl 

lihubarb Tart 310l 

Iced Lemon Pie 310 



Paob 

Washington Pie 310 

Chicken Pot Pic 310 

Cream I'ie 311 

Lemon Pie 311 

Washington Pie 311 

Cocoa-nut Pie 311 

How to Dry Pum[)kin to make t\\e 



Pie 



312 



Mince Meat 312 

Lemon Pie 312 

Grain; Pie 312 

Cranberry Pie 313 

Common Mince Pie 313 

Custard Pie. . . 



'••••• 



.... 313 

To make I'uflf Paste 314 

Paste for C'ommon Pies 314 

Paste for Meat or Fruit Pies 316 

I'uff Paste 316 

Sliort I'aste for Tarts and Fruit 

Pies 315 

Suet Paste for Boiled Puddings . . 316 

(iood Plain Pastry 316 

Baking I'owder 316 

Rich ( 'ream Paste for Tarts 317 

Putf Paste 317 



CHAPTER XX.— Puddings. 



Puddings 318] Rice Pudding (without Eggs).. 

Preserved Ginger Pudding 31 8J Rice Pudding 

20 Minute Pudding 3l9|Surpri.se Pudding 

Snow Pudding 319i Aunt Mary's Pudding 



Queen of Puddings 319 Lemon Puddin; 

Moonshine Pudding 320: French Tajuoca Pudding 

Orange Pudding 320 Steamed Pudding 

Snow " 32l|Golden Pudding 

Black " 321;Chri.Mtma.s Plum Pudding (with- 

Delmonico Pudding 321 j out Eggs^ 

Rice'Pudding without Eggs 321 Steamed Bread Pudding (delici- 

Troy Pudding 3221 ous) 

Apple Charlotte 322iGrotmd Rice Pudding (or Easter 

Black Pudding 322| Pies) 

Indian Pudding 322 Pan-Dowdy 

Rice Meringue Pudding 322! A Souffle Pudding 

Hiss " 323lCornMeal Pudding 

Chocolate " 323,Carrot Pudding 

Lemon Dumplings 323jSmalland Cheap Plum Pudding. . 

Ca.stle Pudding 324 Apple Sago Pudding 

Carolina Rice Pudding 324|Golden Pudding 

Apple Souffle 324|Gelatine Pudding 

Sponge Puddings 324 Raked Apide Pudding 

Steamed I'uddin^ 324 Lemon Suet Pudding 



325 
323 
325 
325 
326 
326 
326 
327 



327 
327 
327 

328 
328 
328 
329 
329 
329 
SM 
330 

3;w 

330 
33; 



580 



Index. 



Paoe 

Half -pay Pudding 331 

Old English Plum Pudding 331 

Amber Pudding 331 

Rice Pudding without Eggs 331 

ANiceRice Pudding 333 

Baroness Pudding 3;>2 

Spon.^e Pudding 332 

Honey Comb Pudding 333 

fripHey Pudding 333 

Snow-ball Pudding 333 

Mountain-dew Pudding 333 

Strained Pudding 334 

Steak Pudding' 334 

Treacle Pudding 334 

Boiled Curd Pudding 334 

Lotus Pudding. ... 335 

Fruit in Batter 335 

To Make Batter for I'ruit Pud- 
dings 335 

Baked Gooseberry Pudding 330 

Carrot Pudding 330 

Baked Sponge Pudding 330 

Apple Dumpling 33(5 

Fig Pudding 337 

Cabinet Pudding 337 

Workman's Pudding 337 

Quaker Pudding 338 

Yorkshire P-idding 338 

Carrot Pudding 338 

Steamed Pudding 338 

Plum Pudding 3.39 

Christmas Plum Pudding 339 

Apple Pudding .... . 339 

Mazey Pudding 339 

A Delicate Pudding 340 

Steamed Apple Piulding 340 

Boiled Indian Pudding 340 

Queen of Puddings 340 



Page 

Poor Man's Pudding 341 

Feather Pudding 341 

French Pudding 341 

Pudding 342 

Brown Pudding 342 

Mince Meat 342 

Bird's Nest Pudding 342 

( /'anadian Pudding 343 

Cottage Pudding 343 

Country Pudding ;M3 

Delicious Pudding 343 

Aunt Nellie's Pudding 343 

Roll Pudding 344 

Maize Pudding 344 

Bread and Butter Pudding 'good) 344 

Poor Man's Plum Pudding 344 

Honey-comb Pudding 345 

Steamed Pudding 345 

Plain Plum Pudding 345 

Cup Pudding 346 

Bread Pudding 346 

AT)ple Dumpling 346 

Hard Times Pudding 346 

Snow Pudding 347 

Bird's Nest Pudding 347 

Bread Pudding 347 

Queen of Puddings 347 

Suet Pudding 348 

Apple and Rice Pudding 348 

Berry or Fruit Pudding 348 

Paradise Pudding 348 

Carrot Pudding 349 

Eve's Pudding 349 

Fruit Suet Pudding 349 

Cheese Pudding 349 

Fig Pudding 35o 

Oatmeal Pudding 35o 

Layer Pudding 3ro 



Onll 
Bukl 
BattT 
Friel 
Batt 
Doul 



CHAPTER XXL—Fkied Ciifam, Batter Puddings, Fritters, 

Doughnuts, Etc. 

Orchard Beisch Doughnut 3511 To make Crullers 354 

BaJ Pudding 3.5l|Puff8 354 

Lemon Puffs 351 French Toast 355 

Fritters 352 Fried Fingers 3.56 

Steam Batter Pudding 352 Crullers 3.55 

Potato Puffs , 3.52iCood Plain Doughnuts 355 

Crullers 3.52'Ratter Pv.'.ling 356 

Chocolate Puffs 3.52 C^rullers 356 

Cocoa-nut Puffs 3.53 To Make Apple Fritters 355 

Fritters of Cake and Pudding 353iCruller.-) 357 

J^XilJce Meat Fritters .... 354 Doughnuts 357 



*l«i 



Index, 



587 



PAOEt Page 

Crullera 357 Fritters 359 

Buked Batter PiuUling 356 Paiicakts 359 

Batter Pudding 3i;7 State Bread Fritters 359 

Fried ( 'ream 358|wl ish or Hasty Pudding MO 

Batter Pudding 358 Batter Pudding 3«0 

Dougunuts 359 

CHAPTER XXII.— PuDDiNu Sauces. 



Almond Sauce 361 

Sauce for Sponge Pudding 30 1 

Pudding Sauce 3til 

Mace Compound 302 

Lemon Sauce 362 

Raisin Sauce 303 

Pudding Sauce 3(j3 

Sauce for Pudding 
Pudding Sauce. . 



Plain White Sauce 364 

Orange Synip 364 

Hard Sauce 364 

Sweet Sauce 365 

Maple Syrup for Pudding;^ 365 

Pudding Sauce 365 

Orange Svrup 365 

303iSauce. . . .' 366 

i(;3 Sauce No. 2 ■ 366 



Lemon Sauce 303 Pudding Sauce. 

Flavourin'r for Sauces 303' 



CHAPTER XXIII.— Home-made Extracts. 



366 



Extract of Spices 307 

Vanilla 3(i7 

Lemon Peel 307 

Almond Flavouring 307 

To Preiiorve Orange Peel 308 

Nutraeg Extract ;{t;s 

Clove E.xtract 30ii 



Vanilla 369 



.. 369 

.. 369 

.. 369 

.. 309 

.. 370 

Essence of Lemon 370 



Almond Flavour 

Extract of Ijcmon Peel 

Capillaire or Simple Syrup. 

Flavouring for Cakes 

Kssence of Orange. 



CHAPTER XXIV— Mekingues. 

Meringues 371 j Meringues 372 

To Make a French Meringue. . . . 371 Italian Macaroons 373 

Italian Meringues 371 Apple M^ringie Pies 373 

Apple Meringue 372 ( 'ream Meringuen 374 

An Apple Meringue 372 Meringue of .^ILpples 374 

CHAPTER XXV.— Ccstard.s, Creams, Etc. 

. Floating Islands 375iSnow Custard 378 

Apple Snow 375| Raked (.'ustard 379 

Boiled Custard 375 Checolate Custard : ... 379 

Baked Custard 370! Floating Apple Island 379 

Chicken Custards for Six t"0'Ai)ple Snow 380 

Chocolate Cream Custaid 370' Baked Custard . 380 

Potato Custard 377 Tomato Cu.stard 380 

Ai>ple Snow 377;( chicken IV.aiicmangj 381 



Almond Custard .... .377 IJtijisian Cream 

Boiled ('ustards .■>77 Chocolate (.!ream. ...... 

Rice ('uritards 37S C!liu(U)late P>lancmange 

French Flummery 378 'I'apioca Cream 



381 
.382 
382 
383 



588 



Index. 



Page 

Spanish Cream 382 

(Charlotte RuHse 383 

Snaniah Cream 383 

CJharlotte Rusee 383 

Hamburg Cream 384 

Caledonia Cream 384 

Spanish Cream 384 

Italian Cream 384 

Charlotte Russe 385 

Snow Cream (a supper dish) 385 

Charlotte Rusae 385 

Srwnge Cream 386 

Charlotte Russe 386 

Peaoh Meringue 386 

Blancmange 386 

Blancmange 387 

Apple Cream 387 



Page 

Lemon Cream 387 

Chocolate Moss 388 

Curds and Cream 388 

Charlotte Russe 388 

American Cream 388 

Whipt Cream 389 

Tapioca Blancmange 389 

( -'arrageen Moss Blancmange 390 

Ireland Moss 389 

(^larlotte Russe 390 

Italian Cream 390 

Rice Blancmange 390 

Velvet Cream 391 

IJurnt CVeam 391 

Snow ^... 391 

Apple Trifle 392 

Sago ( 'ream 392 



CHAPTER XXVI.— Ice Creams, Water Ices and Frosting. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 393 1 Orange Ice Water 39S 

Another Ice Cream 393 Lemon Water Ice 395 

Currant, Raspberry or Strawberry | Fruit Ices 396 

Whisk 393iCurrant Ice Watter 396 

Strawberry Ice Cream 394iFro8ting 3% 

Ice Cream (delicious) 394 j Chocolate Icing 396 

Lemon Ice Cream 394 Icing Fruit Pies and Tarts 397 

Pineauple Cream 394 Almond Icing for Cakes 397 

Ice Cream 395 To Make Icing for Cakes 397 

Water Ices Generally 395 Frosting Without Eggs 398 

CHAPTER XXVIL-Cake, Cookies, and Ginger-Bread. 



Fruit cake. 399 

Frosted cake 399 

Sponge cake 399 

Fruit cake 400 

Prince's cake 400 

Jelly cake 400 

Snow cake 400 

Sponge cake 401 

A Small sponge cal<e 401 

Marble cake 401 

Jelly cake 401 

Gold cake 402 

Silver cake 402 

»Si)onge cake 402 

White Sponge cake 402 

Fruitcake 402 

Jelly cake 403 

Jelly cake 403 

Short-bread 403 

CUocolatf cake . 403 



Orange cake 404 

Lemon cake 404 

Cocoa-nut Sponge cake 404 

Prunella drops 404 

Fruit cake 405 

Sponge cake 405 

( jiolden cake 405 

Silver cake 405 

Gold cake 406 

Silver cake 400 

Fruit cake 406 

Alabama cake 406 

Sponge cake 407 

White cake 407 

Tea cake 407 

A Nice Fruit cake 407 

Wedding cake 407 

Sponge Cake 408 

Dolly Varden Cake 408 

Com Starch Cake 408 



Index. 



580 



'i 



Pagkj Page 

Scotch Shortbread 409 Jelly cake 423 

Marble Cake 409 Pound cake 423 

Jelly Sandwich 409 Fniit cake 423 

Cream Cake 409 Railroad cake 424 



Cocoa Cake 410 

Orange Cake (deliciuiis) 410 

Orange Cake 410 

Jelly Cake 411 

New Year's Friiit Cake 411 

New Year's Pound Cake 411 

Sponge Cake 411 

Corn Starch Cake 411 

Fig Cake 412 

Excellent Cup Cake 412 

Washington Cake 412 

Sponge Cake 412 

Sponge Cake 413 

Peach Cake 413 

Lady Fingers 413 



Com Starch Cake 414 

Jelly Cake 414 

Lemon Jelly Cake 414 

Ice Cream Cake 415 

Light Sponge Cake 415 



Jelly Cake 41.- 



Jelly cake 424 

Fruit cake 424 

Citron cake 425 

Jelly cake 425 

Chocolate cake 425 

Molasses cake 425 

Pound cake 425 

Fruit cake 426 

Shortbread 426 

Sponge cake 426 

Orange cake 426 

Pound cake 426 

Ptolled Jelly Cake 427 

Jelly Cake 427 

Cake 427 



Fruit 



A Much Admired ('ocoa-nut Cake 413 Scotch Short-bread 427 



Lemon Cake 



Roll Jelly Cake 428 

Scotch Short- bread 428 

Large Sponge Cake 428 

Rolled Sandwich 428 

Pound Cake 428 

Fruit Cake 429 



415 Iced Sandwich 429 



Plain Fruit Cake 416 

Pound Cake 410 

Fruit Cake 416 

LadyCake 416 

Sponge Cake 417 

Yellow Lily Cake 41V 

Surprise Cake 417 

Strawberry Short cake* 417 

Sugar Cake 418 

Sponge cake 418 



Princess Cake 429 

Lemon Cake 429 

Fruit Cake 480 

Orange Cake 430 

Scotch Short-bread 430 

Fruit Cake 431 

Cup Cake 431 

Jelly Cake 431 

Cheap Fruit Cake 431 

Iced Cake 431 



Plain Fruit cake 418|White Wedding Cake. 

Golden cake 



Silver cake 418 

Sponge cake 419 

Cocoa Nut cake 419 

Royal Fruit cake 419 

Lady cake ; 420 

Scotch Shortbread 420 

Plum cake 421 

I>elicate cake. 421 



432 

418|Ratafia8 ". 432 



Nice Cookies 432 

Katafia Cookies 433 

Number One Cookies 432 

Cookies 432 

Cookies 43;? 

Molasses Cookies 433 

Cookies , 434 

Cookies 434 



Com Starch cake 421 Cookies 434 

Sponge cake . . 422|Cookie8 434 

Mrs. Owen's cake 422 Cookies 434 

Snow-ball cake 422 Cookies 435 

Corn Starch cake 422 Charcoal Finger cakes 436 

Sponge rake 422 C!arrnway Ginger-bread 435 

Roll Jelly cake 423'Ginger cake 486 



590 



Index. 



Page I 

Ginger Snaps 4:^(); 

Soft frin},'er-l)reafl 4:^tJ 

Soft Ginger-brea<l 4.S7 

Soft Ginger-bread 4.S7 

Ginger Snaps 437 j 

Ginger Snaps 437! 

Ginger-bread 437 

Thin Ginger Snaps (witlxnit eggn) 438; 

Honey Ginger calie 43SJ 

Ginger Snaps 438' 

Ginger Snaps 438i 

Soft Ginger-bread 438i 

Soft Ginger- cake 430 

Plum Ginger-bread 431) 



Paob 

Ginger Snaps 439 

Ginger-bread 440 

Ginger-bread 440 

Soft Genger-bread 440 

(Jood Every-day (Jinger-bread. . . 440 

Ginger Snaps 440 

(■hoice Ginger-bread 441 

Soft (jiinger-bread 441 

Wheat Meal (iinger-bread 441 

Ginger cakes 441 

Ginger-imts 442 

Yorkshire cakes 442 

Rice Cheese cakes 442 

Excellent Sponge Cake 442 



CHA.PTP111 XX\^IIl.— SvNnwitMiKs, Biik vkk.vst andTe a Relishes, 

Entrees, CKCKiUEiTEs, etc. 



Grated Ham Sandwiche,-* 443 Mock Dnck 

Sausage Rolls 443'Jellied ( 'liicken '. 

Pork Cake 443 Mince'l Veal 

French Dish 444 Pickled Herrings 

Cold Pink 444; Jellied Veal . 

Chicken Halibut 444| Little Pork Pies for Breakfast. 

Minced Veal 444; Mushrooms 

Spiced Meat 445 Fish Croquettes 

Omelette 445 

Fish Balls 445 

Codfish Balls 446 

Omelette 44() 

French Mode of Warming Veal 
Chicken Loaf 



Chicken Sandwich 

Ham Omelette . . . 

To Cook Canned 

Lobster 

41() Salmon in a Mould 

447iKelish for (.'old Meat Sandwiches 



Salmon and 



Sardine Sandwiches 447 [Fried C-'hicken 

A Delicate Omelette 447 Scalloped Chicken 

Sandwiches 448 Rissoles 

ScaUoped Veal 448 Croquettes of Mutton. 

Potato Omelette 448 Liebig Sandwiches. . . . 



448 
449 
449 
449 
449 
450 
450 

4.':i 

4.51 
451 

452 
452 
452 
453 
453 
453 
454 
454 



CHAPTER XXIX.— Savoury Jellies and Jellies. 

Aspic Jelly 455 Chicken Jelly 456 

Hartshorn Jelly 455 Orange Jelly 457 

Isinglass Jelly 455 Currant Jelly 457 

Lemon Jelly 456; Strawberry Jelly 458 

Tapioca Jelly 4.56j Apple Jelly 458 

Jellied Chicken 456 Apple Jelly in moulds 458 

C-:APTER XXX. -Cheese, Dairy and Cows. 

Fon.lue 459 Cows 461 

Cheese Strans 459 C'heese Cream 462 

Cream Cheese 4«K) To Prepare Eennet to Turn Milk 462 

To Make Butter 460 Napkin Cheese 462 



pAoe 

4:0) 

440 

440 

440 

ead . . . 440 

440 

141 

441 

441 

441 

442 

442 

442 

442 

ELKKES. 



448 

449 

44!) 

449 

449 

ast. . 450 

450 

4a 

.... 451 
... 451 
and 
... 452 
... 452 
ichea 452 
... 453 
... 453 
... 453 
... 454 
... 454 



456 
457 
457 
468 
458 
468 



. 461 

,. 462 

l^lilk 462 

. 462 



Index. 



CHAPTER XXXI.— Pickles and Catsups. 



51)1 



Page 

Chowder 463 

Tomato (Catsup 463 

I'urraiit Catsup 463 

Pickled Plums 464 

Cold Slaw 464 

Tomato Catsup 464 

Recipe for Makiii},' Vinegar. .. 464 



Page 

Sweet Apples Pickled 470 

Spiced Currants 479 

(.'howder 470 

Spiced Toraato8 470 

India-pickle 470 

Bombay-chutney • 471 

SpanishPickle 471 



Ripe Cucumber Pickle 464 Tomato Catsup 471 

Tomato Catsup 465iTomato Chowder 472 

Sweet Apple Pickle 465i Chow-chow 472 

Sweet Tomato Pickle 465 TiMuato-paste 472 

Green Tomato Pickle 465 Spiced Currants ... 472 

Tomato Mustard 466 One Way to MakeTomatoCatsup 473 

Spiced Currants , . 466 Pickled Cauliflower 473 

Indian Pickles 466 Pickled Cabbay^ 473 

Tomato Relish 4()7 Pickled Butternuts and Walnuts 474 

Sweet Currant Pickle 467 Cucumber or (iherkin Pickle 474 

Sweet-pickled Apples 467 Sliced Cucumber Pickles (very 

Tomato Ketchup 467, nice) 475 

Mustard Pickle 4()8 To Green Pickles 476 

Tomato Catsup 4(i8 Summer Pickles for present use . 476 

Chutney and (^lihi 468'Picalilly 476 

Pickled Onions 469iWholesoniene8s of Pickles 477 

Tomato Mustard 469 Soy 477 

Pickled Peaches 469 Mushroom Catsup 477 

Pickled (blue) Plums 469 Herb Spirit 477 

CHAPTER XXXU.— Preserving and Canning Fkuit. 



Ra8])berry Wine 

Artificial Honey 

Raspberry or Strawberry Acid . . 

Pine Ap])le Marmalade 

Grape Jelly 

How to preserve Tomatoes, &c. 

Grape Jelly 

Orange Marmalade 

Raspberry Vinegar 

Marmalade 

Apples 

Peaches 

Pears 

Plums 

CJuinces 

To Dry Cherries and Plums 

Gages 

Cranberries 

Quinces Whole 

To Preser\ e Oranges 

To Stew Prunes . 

Receipt for Currant Wine 

Raspberry Vinegar 

31) 



478 Lemon Marmalade 485 

478 Currant Jelly 486 

478 Strawberry Jam 486 

479 Preserved Jellies and Jams 486 

479 Rhubarb Marmalade 487 

479 Apple Mannalade 487 

480 Green Grapes Preserved 487 

480 Quince Marmalade 488 

481 Tomatoes Preserved 489 

481 To Preserve Strawberries 489 

482 Green Gooseberry Jelly 490 

482 Peach Jam 490 

482 Peach Chips 491 

482 Pine-ai)ple Jelly 491 

483 To Preserve Quinces 492 

483 How to Cook Cranberries 492 

483 Canned Plums 492 

484 Canned 'J'omatoes 493 

484 Canned Tomatoes and Com 493 

484:Citi-on Melon Preserve 493 

485JCherrieH 494 

485 (Quince Marmalade 4M 

4851 White or Green Plums 494 



592 



Index. 



CHAPTER XXXIII —Candy. 



Paoe 

(JaranielH 495 

Vinegar Candy 495 

Home-made Cream Caody 495 

Nut Candy 496 

(^ocoa-nut Drops 4% 

Prunella Drops 496 

Candy 496 

Treacle Candy 49(5 

Kisses 497 

Chocolate Caramels 497 



Pace 

Everton Toffy 497 

Caramel . 497 

(Chocolate Creams 498 

Toffy 498 

Cream ('andy 498 

C'ocoa-nut Drops 499 

Fruit Drops of Lemon Juice 498 

Ginger Drops, a good Stomachic. 499 

Peppermint Drops 499 

Barley Sugar 499 



CHAPTER XXXIV.— Pickling Brine. 



To Prepare a Round of Beef for 

Baking .500 

Spiced Beef for Drying 500 

Pickle for Hams 501 

Dried Meat". 501 

A good mode of Smoking Meat. . 501 



To Spice a Round of Beef. ... 592 

(firing Pork 502 

To Preserve Smoked Meats 502 

Pickling Beef 502 

To Pickle Tongues 503 

To Cure Bacon 503 



Hamburg Pickle for Beef 501lTo Spice a Round of Corned Beef .504 



CHAPTER XXXV.— Washing and Cleaning. 






Washing Clothes 

H ard Soap 

Washing Fluid 

Recipe for Bleaching Cotton 

Washing Blue 

(Poison) Salts of Lemon for Ex- 
tracting Iron Mould 

To Remove Fruit Stains from 
Linen 

To Remove Grease Spots 

Economical Soap - 

To Cli'an Carpets 

To Clean Black Jjace 

To Clean China 

" Linen 

To take out Spots of Pitch 



.505 
.505 
506 
506 
506 

506 



50<) 
507 
507 
507 
507 
508 
.508 
508 



Kid (Cloves 508 

'I'o Wash New Black Worsted 

Stockings 509 

To Clean Hair brushes 509 

Starching Cuffs and Collars 509 

To Wash New Flannels. ........ 510 

To Prevent Prints from Fading. . 510 

To Clean Shawls 510 

To Wash Flannels 511 

Flannels 511 

Gloss Starch 511 

Fruit StaiiLs, No. 2, 512 

To Wash Coloured Stockings .... 512 
On the Art of Polishing Shirts and 

Collars 512 

To Dress Collars .513 



CHAPTER XXXVI.— To banish Vermin and Insects. 



To Kill Flies .513 

Bed- Bugs 513 

How to get rid of Cockroaches . . 513 
Chloride of lime to destroy insects 513 

Remedy for Bed Bugs 514 

To Keep Flies from Horses 514 

To Keep away Mosquitoes ...... 514 



To Destroy Insects on House 

plants 514 

To Destroy Cockroaches 514 

To Destroy Flies 515 

To Exterminate Beetles 515 

To Destroy Flies in a room 515 

To Clear Vegetables of Insects. . . 515 



Page 

49r 

497 




498 




498 




498 




499 


Juice 

Stomachic. 


498 
499 
499 




499 


Beef. .. 


.592 
502 


Meats 


502 
502 




503 
503 


horned Beef 504 
508 


. .509 


18 

ollars 

j1« 

m Failing. 


. 509 
. 509 
. 510 
. 510 
.510 


511 




511 


. .512 


ockings .... 512 
g Shirts and 
512 


513 


> Insects. 
514 


les 


. 514 
. 515 
. 515 


room .... 


.. 515 
.. 515 



Index. 



CHATTER XXXVII. Genkrat. InforMatiox." 



593 



Page 

Useful Hints 516 

Weights and Measures 516 

To Kemove Ink Siwts 51(i 

Cement for Shell Work 517 

To Keep Cream Sweet 517 

To take Grease out of Wood 517 

Green Copperas 517 

Molasses 51 8, 

Mince Meat 518! 

To Extract Grease from Papered j 

Walls 518j 

To Clean Furniture 518 

Remedy for Milk Turning Sour. . 518 

To Restore Colour to Clothes 518 

To Keep Grapes 519 



)19 



Celery 

Currants for l^akes 519 

Crickets , 519 

Worms 520 

French Mustard (to keep) 520 

Cow's Milk 520 

Tomatoes 520. 



Economy in Bread -crust;-) 

To Protect Doors while Cleaning. 

Salt 

Facts of Value to the Housewife, 

Salt 

Fresh Meat : 

Boiling Water 

Ripe Tomatos 

Tur|ientine 

[Boiled Starch 

Bees-wax and Salt 

Kerosene Oil - 

Kera><ene 

Machine Grease 

Stains on Marble 

Celery Cooked 

To Cook Celery 

A Lemon 

Worth Knowing ." 

German Polish for Furniture 

Cement 

Lime Water 



AGE 

521 
521 
521 

521 

.521 

521 

522 

522 

522 

522 

522 

522 

522 

522 

523 

523 

523 

524 

524 

524 

524 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 



Complexion, Hair, Nails, Teeth, &c. 

527 



Toilet Wash 525,Lip Salve 

Preparation for the Hair, 525|Tnvaluable Dentrifice, 527 

Dentrifices 1, 2, 3, 525| Balsam for ('hapi)ed Lips .527 

Cosmetic Soap 526|( burling Fluid 527 

To Keep the Hands Clean and I Whiskers and Moustaches 528 

Smooth 526 For Thickening the Hair 528 

Glycerine Soap for chapped hands, iTo Whiten the Nails 528 

lips, &c, 526To Whiten the Hands 528 

Soft Hands, 527 A certain cure for Soft Corns .... 528 

CHAPTER XXXIX. -Summer and other Drinks. 



Lemon Acid .529 

Pine Apple Sherbet, 529 

Cream Nectar 529 

Home Made Ginger Beer 5.30 

Lemon Syrup 530 

Cream Nectar 5.S0 

For Nectar or Soda No. 2 .5.30 

Nectar 5.31 

Ginufer Beer .531 

Ambrosia (a Summer drink).... .5.31 
Strawberry Sherbet (delicious) . . 531 



Strawberry Vinegar. 532 

Orange Sherbet 532 

Orangeade 532 

Grape Wine (simple and perfect). 532 

Good Nectar 533 

Orangeade 533 

Gingerade 533 

Raisin Wine 533 

( 'ranberry Wine 534 

Sarsai)arilla Mead .534 

Summer Bevera™ 534 



CHAPTER XL.— Cookery tor the Siok. 

Apple Water 535, Wine Jelly , .530 

Beef Tea 535 (Jhicken Jelly, 537 

Calves' feet Jelly 535 Wine Jelly 537 

Chicken Jelly 536 Wine Jelly 637 



594 



Index. 



Paoei Pack 

Preparing Food for Invalids 537/Lin8eed Tea 539 

A Nourishinjf Food for Invalids 537lSaj,'o., 539 

Calf Foot Jelly 53S|1'araarand8 or Cranberry Juice. . . 539 

Black ( Uirrant Jam Water 538 Barley Water. 539 

Rice Water 538 Arrowroot Cnstard for Invalds . . 540 

(ium Arabac Water 539 Simple Wine Whey 540 

CHAPTER X LI.— Specifics and Remedies. 



Receipt for Neuralgia 

For 1 reatment of Dysentary .... 
Treatment of all kinds of Sciatica 

and Neuralgic Pains 

Raw Onions 

A Healing Salve 

Burns and Scalds 

Chilblains 

Sore Throat 

Pile Ointment 

Bleeding at the Nose 

Chilblains 

(Jure for C'orns 

To Cure Felons 

Cure for C'hafing 

Corns between the Toes 

Cold in the Head 

Corns 

To C'ure the Quinsey 

A Cure for Dysentery 



541 
541 

541 
542 
542 
542 
542 
542 
542 
543 
543 
543 
543 
543 
543 
544 
544 
544 
544 



Lumbago and Strains 644 

Excellent Eye Wash 546 

Face Ache 545 

Remedy for Croup 545 

Rheumatinm 545 

Hhenmatism in Face and Teeth. . 546 

Remedy for Croup 546 

Embrocation for Rheumatism . . . 546 

Cough Compound . . 546 

For Colds 547 

(/ure for Earache 547 

(ieranium Leaves 547 

Cranberries as a Cure for Cancer 547 

To Cool Inflammation 648 

To Remove Tea Stains 548 

Small Pox 548 

For a Scald or Burn 548 

Chromate of Potash for Warts. . . 54t) 

Cure for Prickly Heat 549 

Lemon Juice for Pain 540 



CHAPTER XLIL— Miscellanea. 



How to Make C?andles out of lard 

Baking Powder (original) 

Prince Cake 

Baking Powder 

Corn Starch Cake 

Baked Indian Pudding 

C-aramel Cake 

Quaker Omelet 

Sauce Piquante (as taught in the 

School at Kensington) 

Bacon 

Chloride of Lime 

Milk Soups 

Mustard Sauce (very good with 

boiled beef) 

Fillets of Mackerel 

How lo Boil a Fowl 

Ink Stains 

Remedy for Sore Throat 

Whites of Eggs 

To Keep Lemons 

Potted Chicken 

Sponge Cake.. 

A Nice Dish of Apples 



550 
550 
550 
550 
551 
551 
551 
552 

552 
552 
553 
553 



553 
554 
554 
554 
554 
555 
555 
555 
555 
556 



White Lily Cake 

Yellow do 

Larding 

Braising 

Glazing 

Boning 

Blanching 

Invisible Cement 

Polish for Boots, Harness, &c.. 
French Polish Reviver (excellent) 

Sweet Grape Wine 

To Prepare Caramel or Burnt 

Sugar 

Scent Bag 

To Prepare Verjuice 

" Apple Butter 

Piquante Sauce 

Oyster Ketchup 

liaplandf* 

To Cook a Beefsteak 

To Ttika Stains out of Silver .... 
Bills of Fare for Family Meals. . . 

Blank Pages for Notes, &c 

Conclu8i<m 



556 
556 
566 
657 
657 
558 
558 
558 
558 
558 
559 

659 
559 
560 
560 
560 
561 
561 
561 
561 
563 
568 
572 



m 



Pack 

539 

M9 

Jerry Juice.. . 539 

539 

for Invakla . . 540 

■ 540 

DIES. 

1)8 544 

h 546 

545 

545 

545 

e and Teeth.. 546 

54G 

leumatiam . . . 546 

546 

547 

547 

547 

ire for C'ancer 547 

ion 548 

iiiH 548 

548 

n 548 

for Warts. . . 54t» 

eat 549 

lin 540 

556 

556 

566 

557 

557 

558 

558 

558 

Harness, &c. . 558 
ver (excellent) 558 

550 

nel or Burnt 

559 

tliag 559 

•-e 560 

iutter 560 

560 

561 

561 

^k 561 

of Silver .... 561 
imily Meals. . . 563 

)te8, &c 568 

572 





Bank St. Presbyterian Church. 

OTTAWA. 



THE 



CAMDIAN ECONOMIST, 



A BOOK OF 



TRIED AND TESTED RECEIPTS. 



COMPILED BY 
MEMBERS OF THE LADIES ASSOCIATION OF BANK STREET CHURCH, OTTAWA. 

TUE PROFITS TO BE DEVOTED TO THE CUL'RCU. 



Price $2.00. 



(0 1 1 a u- a : 

PUBLISHED BY ALEXR. MORTIMER. 

TORONTO:-HUNTER, ROSE & CO. 

1881. 



Entered according to Act of Parliament of Canada, in the year one 
thonsaiid eight hundred and eighty-one, by Alexr. Moktimer, 
in the office of the Minister of Agriculture. 



rRlNTKD BY 

HrXTKR, K08K & Co., 

TOKO.NTO. 



The Gtt-<troiioiiu<i is a most koaoarahle art, 
High and low, since antiquity's eurliest dawn. 
Enriched have its annals and pages with all their Jiea^rt. 

Canada is the land in which this art flourishes, 
And whose soil is fertile in rich materials, 
Noiure has designed that these most worthg science^ 
And knowledge of eating and living, which thus tells 
Lfimly, it may well he, on '' Xatioiud Policies" 
In the household, reacts with most potent spells, 
And influences minds, even more than riches. 
Noble ''Lords of Creation" their passion for save-all 
dispels. 

Epicureans and poets have sang its praises ; 

Cooks and fair ladies have added to its laurels ; 

Old and young alike have arowned it with moAiy graces. 

Nuts, oranges, creams and sweet-scented carajnels ; 

Onions, butter, beef and a variety of sauces 

Make a conUti nation, fairy-like weaving their spells 

In this book, that you will discover embraces 

Sogers recipes, and some others which thus foretells 

The end of our acrostic vithovt devices. 



yhj^ A /' ^y:H^v^iyi/^ 



IJJTRODUCTION. 



IN seiitlincr forth the EcoxoMfST to a criticising world 
the Ladies' Association of Bank Street Church 
would deprecate as little criticism of it as possible. 

In compiling this work they have had two objects in 
view ; first, to realize money for the benefit of their 
church (a lithograph of which can be seen in the front 
of the book) ; and, secondly, as the majority of these re- 
cipes have been used and proved good by people of very 
moderate incomes, they know they are valuable, and feel 
assured that they will benefit the general 'public, by pub- 
lishing a book of recipes essentially suited to American 
households. 

They have worked on the principles embodied in the old 
proverbs, " Economy is the poor man's revenue, extrav- 
agance is the rich man's ruin," and as these recipes are ele- 
gant, economical and wholesome, they would, therefore, 
commend the " Cookery Book " to ever}- house-keeper in 
the Dominion of Canada, and in the neighbouring United 
States. 




In this Book you will find various contributions 
From brave chivalric sons and fairest daughters, 
Who, worshipping Canadian soil and Institutions 
Love, the emblems of the lands of their fathers, 
And desire to unite them, with their own dear nations 
Beautiful, Maple -Leaves, and very popular. Beavers. 




And also to lire, in close fraternal eonjonction 
With their beloved brethren,over the borders. 
Farewell : Be not dismayed at the oonstraction 
Of verses, and rythm, by such stupid rhymers. 
But look on the " Cookery Book " with compassion 
Friends, patronje^high, low, and good neighbours, all. 



PREFACE. 



MANY " Cookery Books ' are written by people who 
never kept house ; who give the theory, but for- 
get that practice is as necessary to accomphsh anything 
like success in this as in every other attainment in life. 
Such is not the case, however, with the compilers of, and 
contributors to, this book. Many of them have learned 
their lessons well from that arbitrary teacher, '' Experi- 



ence. 



The writer well remembers her trials in culinar}' affaii-s 
when living in the country, "far up the Ottawa River," 
" beyond the bounds of civilization," as our friends in the 
cities called it then. When poring over cooker}^ books it 
seemed as if one never could find a recipe that would be 
of any practical use, and if you did happen to come across 
one that appeared to be nice, not one ingredient that was 
given had you in your house, and another had to be tried, 
of which, perhaps, you had all or some of the materials 
necessary at hand ; and, oh, the vile compound ! it was use- 
less. And then the climax — the bread-making. When 
you discovered that you had a " cannon ball " in posses- 
sion, rather than so much of the "staff of life," what ut- 



viii Preface. 

ter- prostration took hold of you ! But kind neighbours 
came along with recipes which they had tried and proved 
both simple and good ; and then house-kee[)ing seemed 
easy. 

A few years ago in Ottawa it was very difficult to get 
good servants: ladies, wives and daughters who were old 
enough had to turn their attention to domestic matters. 
One member of a family would take a department,in which 
she would try to perfect herself: and so on with the 
others, each taking a branch in which she acquired 
a pre-eminence. And now many families are not afraid, 
when they are minus a servant, to attend to work which 
before they were unable to do. 

Every household work has generally a page or pages 
devoted to etiquette : etiquette for ladies, etiquette for gen- 
tlemen, etiquette for breakfasts, luncheons, dinners, sup- 
pers, &ic. But as this is a work written especially for the 
benefit of a church,we shall, perhaps, be pardoned if we only 
touch on etiquette for Christian men and women. The 
Christian woman who shows in her daily life the fruits of 
the spirit which St. Paul so carefully enumerates, is to all 
intents and purposes the true lady ; for society, as well 
as Christianity, requires love, joy, peace, long-suffering, 
gentleness, goodness, and all things that are lovely ; and 
the intellect and the heart are both involved in the mak- 
ing of a gentleman. To those who go to the same church, 
Avho sit down with us at the same communion table, and 
whom we meet Sabbath after Sabbath, we should show 
unfailing courtesy of manner, and do them a kindness 



Preface. ix 

when we can. And to those belunirin;]f to other chuicht s 
we should show good-will and pleasantness, feeling that 
though we may be divided here, we shall oU ivish to meet 
at last " Beyond the river." 

We will take, as a model of a pleasant home, a cottage 
consisting of a kitchen, dining room, parlour, bed-rooms, 
^c, presided over by a mistress who is ably assisted by 
one general servant, and speak of each division separately. 

In such l»ooks a list of kitchen-ware and necessary uten- 
sils is usually given, but we shall not thus encroach upon 
the limits of the Economist, avS wo are satisfied that 
even the poorest can procure the needful vessels in which 
to cook, if they can only find directions within their 
available means:. Tho^*^ tli" E'o::omist prof<'«>'-: to 
furnish. 

To those kind friends who have so crenerouslv assisted 
us by their contributio!is and subscriptions, we tender our 
grateful thanks, an. 1 trust that this book may be of use 
to manv. 



Note. Since these pa-jes were written, Bank Street Clmiyh lia,s. l.y .i 
wicked act of incendiarism, been deva.stated, .tnd its interior defacefl. Tlure 

is now more need than ever that the sale of this book shouUl be verytfeneral. 





w 
o 

Eh 



"THK kitchen;' 



A KITCHEN should be liglit and cheei-f ul, What is so 
pleasant a sight as a bright, and well-kept kitchen 1 
It is delightful to visit such an one and see the bright dress- 
ers, polished stove, clean floor, and orderly and neat tables. 
It seems to us, that, after all, there is a good deal of hap- 
pines to be found in it, when one has to make her living 
as a servant, if she would try to excel in all points neces- 
sary to make a capable and etticient maid, whom her 
employers find so essential to their comfort that they 
would not like to part with her. 

We do find such girls occasionally, l)ut not very often. 
Perhaps it is the fault of the employers that they are not 
more frequentl}- met with. 

The chief complaint urged against this class of servants 
is, that the}' are slovenly in their habits, and execute no 
portion of their work well. How can it be otherwise '. 
A general servant is at the beck and call of every one, 
and is required at any moment either to run on an errand, 
cook a meal, answer a bell, or wait at table. All these 
occupations disturb her from the usual routine of house- 
cleaning, and are more serious interruptions than thought- 
less employers are willing to believe. If in families where 
only one servant is kept, the daughters were required to 
render regular assistance in house-hold work, the case 
would be different ; the latter would be in training to 
become the mistresses of homes, and the servant would 
not be the domestic slave she is in reality, when required 



xii The Kitchen. 

to toil througliout the day without liclp. Whore only 
one servant is kept, and no assistance given, there can be 
little choice of work. The servant must do what she can 
when she can ; and what she cannot do she must leave 
undone. But, when her employers, by a well-considered 
plan of work, assist in household labours of the lighter 
kind, there need be no difficulty in one servant getting 
through as much work comfortably to herself, as most 
families require, and here it would be well to remark that 
it is in doing these things wdiich a mistress or a daughter 
may best do for themselves, that a servant's time is lost. 
In washing china, glass, dusting and arranging furniture, 
books, ornaments, kc, a servant of all work spends the 
most valuable hours of the day, and even when the w^ork 
is done, the rooms have not that well-ordered appearance 
wdiich is evident to the most casual observer, when a lady 
has assisted in it. Onl}^ those servants who have a char- 
acter for being thoroughly cleanly and industrious, should 
be engaged. Such an one will rise early in the moi'ning 
and get the "dirty work" done before the family are down. 
By dirty work is meant sweeping the kitchen, cleaning 
the grates, lighting fires, sifting cinders, filling coal-scut- 
ties, and cleaning knives and boots. If gentlemen require 
their boots early in the morning, and have them off late 
at night, they can hardly expect to have them ready and 
well polished unless two pairs are kept in use. This 
necessary portion of the work being finished, the servant 
should change the dress she has w^orn and put on a tidy 
one for bringing in breakfast, sw^eeping rooms, making- 
beds, &;c. Where no such rules are enforced, the dirty 
work is in hand all day, and the servant's appearance 
betokens the hopeless muddle in which she lives. " The 
chief points for a mistress to enforce in her kitchen are 
cleanliness and strict economy. It is her duty to see that 
her servant has every thing proper for her use. Having 
done so, she should be as careful of her household uten- 
sils and linen as she is of her parlour furniture. A 



The Kitchen. xiii 

thoughtful iiii^tie.'-.-s will lie careful not to impose any- 
labour which would be liable to soil the afternoon dress. 
Least of all would a considerate employer becrudfe the 
few houi-s of leisure a servant might have acquired a rio-ht 
to enjoy, by diligent working. "The habit many ladies 
have of tilling in all the servant's spare time has been pro- 
ductive of the sloven]}' appearance and dawdling Mays of 
women of the General Servant class. They, like their 
employer, require rest at the day's close ; time to read, 
time to write to their friends, and time to mend and make 
their clothes." 

Let me appeal to this cla«s of our fellow-beings, to o>ive 
more attention to cleanliness and habits of order, to have 
a place for everything, and keep everything in its jdace ; 
then shall they be more respected, ami obtain the best 
positions in their station in life ; and " Kitehen " and the 
fairy who sways supremely there, shall be synonymous 
with all that is pure, clean, cheerful and bright. 




THE DINING-ROOM." 



ry^HE name seeins couiuion-place, but wluit liosts of 
I memories are called forth by the sound of the nanu' 
" The Dining-room." 

Imagination paints and early recollections cluster round 
a dining, which was also the living i-oom of a family. Two 
lio-lit cheerful windows overlooked a lovelv garden, and 
the " blue Avaters " of the Lake Ontario. In one of the 
windows stood the tiower-stand, on which, nourished by 
the light which came from that bright window, were the 
pure Calla lily, the blooming hydrangea, the delicate he- 
liotrope, and the much-loved mignonette. Among their 
leaves roved at will two sweet little pet canaries, whose 
thi'oats Avai'bled melodious notes, wafting one away to 
" I'egions beyond." The old-fashioned mantel on which 
were sea-shells, telling wonderful stories to childish ears. 
In wintei' the laige " box-stove" diffusing grateful warmth 
and comfort in the room. In a recess, in which it just 
htted, stood the mahogany sideboard, on the top of which 
rested the Bil)le, which was brought down for family 
worship, morning and evening, with scarcely an omission 
for years. The long sofa, before which stood the dining- 
room table, on which the cloth was laid, and meals served 
there three times a day ; and around which, father, mother, 
and eight children — merry sisters and stalwart brothers 
— sat year after year. Here wit sparkled, cheerfulness 
reigned, mirth abounded; friends came and went, and 
noiu that the home is broken up, those brothers and sis- 



The Dinirixj-room. xv 

ters scattered (one parent and one sister gone to the 
" better land "), memory canies us back to that dining- 
room which ever had and will ever have a hallowed place 
in our childhood's reminiscences, and in the inmost re- 
cesses of our hearts. 

There is hardly anything in house-kee]>ing, that more 
surely promotes the comfort of a family and ensutes com- 
fort and respectability than a well-set family table. It 
should be covered with a cloth clean and neat ; the various 
dishes of food should be arranged with an eye to symme- 
try ; it is so much i)lea«ure to even an uncultivated ej'e 
to see thinirs luok nicelv, that it is worth the trouble ; and, 
Ijesides, the exercise of taste and care is economical. 
These are small mattei-s, you will perhaps say, but it is 
by such things a pei"son is judged. Then why not culti- 
vate such tastes as are most agreeable to others. Domes- 
tic arrangeaients Ijelonging entirely to the mistress, the 
table, of course, is entitled to a large share of her atten- 
tion. Taste and judgment are very requisite here, because 
a good and respectable meal depends on the neatness and 
cleanliness with which the whole is served up. Breakfast 
— say at eight o'clock — -the family assemble. In summer, 
fruits are in seas«jn and may be ])aitaken of first, then 
ponidge ; after which any dish or dishes of meat, eggs, i:c., 
that may be prepared, can be put on the table, with vege- 
tables or potatoes, fried or baked, and the l)everages may 
be coffee, tea, chocolate, cocoa, and kaoka. Certainly the 
fare partfiken of varies with the means of the family, but 
the very poorest in this country can follow the same 
coui-seand keep a " table " at which H. R. H. OUR Princess 
might sit down, if they would only practise thorough 
cleanliness, use plenty of soap and water, and keep them- 
selves and their children in a untie presentable state tlian 
they have yet done. 

Dinner at one o'clock. — Soup, first course : fish ; then 
meat and vegetables ; next, the ptidding coui^se, &c., after 
which comes the fiiiit dessertj apples, nuts, &c.. 



xvi Tlte Dining-room. 

But, for people wlio keep these early hours, the best 
meal of the dav is the six o'clock tea. The ffood, generous 
meal for which we like to have something nice for the 
principal dish ; it may be a tender sirloin steak, fricasseed 
oysteis, smoking- hot sweet-breads, or best of all, a splen- 
did Finnon haddie, done to the turn, with nice gravy. 
After alL, there is nothing like our good Canadian Cookery. 
It may be very nice when we travel to tind hotels, like 
the " United Hotel," St. James's Square, London ; " Hotel 
de Lille et d' Albion," Paris ; " Revere House," Boston ; 
" Fifth Avenue Hotel," New York ; but give us for com- 
fort and health, the delicious " Home Cookery "' to which 
we turn when every other becomes insipid to our taste. 




m 



^ 







''THE PAKLOUR;' 



THIS is a very useful as well as an ornamental room. 
Here the elegant trifles and the cherished memen- 
toes of friends find a place, and i^ is alwa3s in order to 
receive callers and entertain friends. 

The Parlour of the " Home Cottage" is recalled to 
memory as a very pleasant room. 

In it friends met year after year. Many pleasant even- 
ing parties ]>assed the "sweet houi"s away." 

In this apartment lovei-s ti \ sted, and more tL 
bride crossed the thre>hold to enter on the arena of mar- 
ried life. Bridegrooms brought their brides to the pater- 
nal roof, to be received in that clieerful parlour. In it a 
sick mother spent many yeai-s in the latter end of her 
life, and it is endeared to the remembrances of many, 
because of these fond and tender lecollections. There is 
a S|)ecies of parlour mag c in which we should all indulge ; 
viz., the magic of cultivating a sunny temper. This makes 
a perpetual summer within — be the weather what it ma}'' 
without. It makes a long day short ; a dull day hiight, 
They that have this sunny temper are certainly a bles.s- 
ing to themselves as well as to all around them. No 
sorrow can keep this sunny temperament long in wretched- 
ness, however deeply felt. This sweet temper will try to 
make the best of everything by endeavouring to soothe, 
to comfort, to charm. 

Opposed to this sweet temper, is Bad Tempkr, wh'ch 
some people think is allied to insanity. Says the Fopv,- 
S 



xviii The Parlour. 

lar Science Montldy : " Passionate people — the hasty kind 
— who flare up in a blaze, like fire to tow, or a coal to 
])owder, without taking time to enquire whether there is 
any ground for such a pyrotechnic display, and then get 
more furious when they find out there was no cause for 
their fiery feats, may learn a^wseful as well as a serious 
lesson from an item in Dr. Blanchard's report of the 
King's County Lunatic Asylum, that three men and three 
women became insane by uncontrollable temper. 

We all feel a sympathy for one who has become de- 
mented from loss of kindred, from disappointment, and 
from a hard lot in life ; but we can have no such feeling 
for quarrelsome, ill-natured, fretful, fault-finding, com- 
plaining, grumbling creatures, the greater part of whose 
every-day life tends to make those whose calamity it is 
to be bound to them, as miserable as themselves. Bad 
temper is a crime, and like other crimes, is ordained in 
the course of nature to meet sooner or later its merited 
reward. Other vile passions may have some points of 
extenuation, the pleasure for example which may attend 
their indulgence, but ill-nature — that is a fretful, fault- 
finding spirit, in its origin, action, and end, has no exten- 
uating quality ; and in the apj)lication of the old principle, 
with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you 
again, will find a most pitiable end. 

Therefore with all the power that has been given you. 
strive and strive for life, to mortify this deed of the flesh. 
Watch hourly, watch every moment against the indul- 
gence of a hasty temper, as being offensive to yourself, 
and contemptible in the eyes of your fellowman — con- 
temptible, because for the person who possesses it, and 
knows it, yet indulges in it, and makes no effective efforts 
to restrain it, no human being can have any abiding 
attachment or respect, founded as it is in low morals, or 
low intellect, or both. 

Let us then cultivate the magic charm which creates so 
much pleasure for others, and gives to ourselves " Peace." 



The Parlour. xix 

Our Cottage Home is to be presided over by a mistress 
who neglects nothing, who regulates and supenntends her 
household concerns with care and taste, and who is a good 
manager without an ostentatious display of management ; 
elegantly dressed without being a slave to dress ; accom- 
plished and well read, and yet able to keep her house in 
order. 

If a mistress has good health, plenty of time, and much 
patience, the best way to ensure comfort in her home is 
to train her servant herself. She mast consider the £:irl 
as her pupil, and make her strictly amenable to rules, 
from which no departure should be permiCted. Her 
work must be ananged, every duty being performed in 
regular order. 

In the intercourse of " Domestic Life," both mistress 
and maids have to " Bear and Forbear." 

Good temper in a wife, mother, and mistress is indeed 
indispensable. The foundation of a happy home rests 
undoubtedly with the heads of a family. They can sur- 
round their hearths with an atmosphere of moral purit}', 
gentleness, truth, and love, and their children will natur- 
ally imbibe the same, and the result will be chaiactei-s in 
harmony with such a home. Great is the influence of 
brothei-s and sisters, and veiy responsible are they for 
influencing the minds of each other. How often we wi.sh 
that we could live our lives over again ! How differently 
we would act in the Home Circle ! We would be more 
ready with the " soft answer " and forl:>earing love, which 
constitute its happinass, and the small still sweet courte- 
sies of love which make Home happy. " Oh ! how good 
and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in 
unity." Domestic Economy should be practised by per- 
sons of limited incomes. " Never forget to have a penny," 
taught Franklin, " when all thy expen-ses are paid, then 
shalt thou reach the point of happiness, and independence 
shall })e thy .shield and buckler, thy helmet and crown, 
then shall thy soul walk uprightly." 



XX The Parlour. 

To preserve a house in the best possible order, to have 
a knowledge of making up necessary linen, &e., and to be 
learned in divers processes of cooker}^ are essential in 
order to have a pleasant home, and we should remember 
that, " Knowledge is Power" only when it fits us for the 
station in which we find ourselves placed. In every home 
there should always be a pleasant welcome for friends. 
In no home is there perfect happiness, we shall have to 
look to our " Heavenly Home " for that ; but, be assuied, 
we can do much, to make our earthly habitations glow 
with comfort, peace, and joy. 










wKKH0- 





Wp^Z 





1: " 


p 




H 




pq 


- 1^^^ *; ^ 


w 


■■^■j^ 


W 


^^^H^ 


EH 




V \ '< N - "■■--" 




THE BEDROOMS;' 



rr^HESE should be light, airy apartments; if simply 
i furnished, so much the better. 

WTio does not know, in a large family, the value of a 
nice bedroom ? A room to which you can retire in mo- 
ments of leisure : for seclusion ; for study, and for obtain- 
ing rest. Even half-an-hour's rest, in such a room is 
grateful to one engaged in teaching, or any other wearying 
employment. 

How often has the young aspiring poet breathed forth 
poetical effusions of no common merit in his " rooin-" 
And the first compositions which in their results often 
lead to authorship. 

Often indeed, have the first dawnings of genius in one 
who afterwards became, perhaps renowned as a painter, 
begun in a bedroom. 

These rooms then hold an important place in a " Cot- 
tage Home," and should be kept thoroughly clean, orderly 
and neat. The servant's bedroom, we would just notice 
here, as being in general very badly kept. How is it, 
that this class have such an avereion to cleanliness { Some 
ladies, from motives of delic<icy, feeling that every per- 
son's room is their own. do not often visit their servant's 
room, and how are they rewarded ? If on some excep- 
tional occasion, they may be obliged to go to them, words 
would fail to describe the confusion and filth they often 
find there: Any girls who value their girlhood, their mO' 



xKii The Bedrooms. 

desty, their future lives, as wives and mothers, will shun 
such habits, and if they have not time during the day, 
they will take an hour from their morning slumbers, to 
keep their room as it should be kept. " Home," what a 
world of interest is crowded into that talismanic word. 
What holy memories and soul-inspiring associations sur- 
round that sacred shrine. " Our Childhood's Happy 
Home." What a beautiful sentiment that is " There is 
no place like Home." If we would wish to have our 
children revere their homes ; honour their parents ; love 
their brothers and sisters ; and live in unity with their 
fellow-beings: we must make our homes what they should 
be, models of Godliness and Cleanliness. 




CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER. PAGE 

i. — Coffee, Tea, Choculate, Cocoa axd Kaoka .... 1 

II.— Soups 12 

III.-Oysteks 33 

IV. — Clam, Lob.ster.s, Crabs, kiy 42 

V. — Fish axd Fro<;s 48 

YI. — Savoury Sauces 64 

VII.— Beef, Salt axd Fresh 84 

VIII.— Pork and Hajis 101 

IX. — Veal axd Sweetbreads 125 

X. — MuTTOx .\xd Lamb ; 148 

XI. — Poultry axd Game 161 

XII. — Vegetables 181 

XIII. — Yeast, Bread axd Biscuit 204 

XIV. — Tea xsv Breakfast Cake.s 221 

XV. — Mush, Oatmeal, Rice, et( 272 

XVI. — Macaroni 27 7 

XYIL— Eggs 282 

XVIIl.— Salad.s 291 

XIX.— Pastry axd Pies 2r9 

XX.— Puddings 318 

XXI. — Fried Cream, Batter Puddings, Fritters and 

Dough-xcts 351 

XXII.— Pudding Sauces 361 



Xxlv Oonterds. 

CHAPTER. PAGE 

XXIII. — Home-made Extracts 367 

XXIV.— Mekingues 371 

XXV. — Cu-sTARDs, Creams, etc 375 

XXVI. — Ice-creams, Water-icf.s and Frosting 393 

XXVII. — Cake, Cookies and Ginger-bread 399 

XXVIII. — Sandwiches, Breakfast and Tea Eelishes, 

Entrees, Croquetts, etc 443 

XXIX. — Savoury Jellies and Jellies 455 

XXX. —Chee.se, Dairy and Cows 459 

XXXI.— Pickles and Catsup 463 

XXXII. — Preserving and Canning Fruit 478 

XXXIII. —Candy 495 

XXXIV.— Pickling Brine 500 

XXXV. — Washing and Cleaning 505 

XXXVL— To Banish Vermin 513 

XXXVII. — General Information 516 

XXXVIII. — The Comblexion, Hair, Teeth, etc 525 

XXXIX. — Summer and other Beveuages 529 

XL. — Cookery for the Sick 535 

XLI. — Specifics and Remedies 541 

XLII. — Miscellanea 550 

Bills of Fare for Family Meals 561 

Blank Pages for Accounts, etc 568 

Addenda 572 

Conclusion 574 

Index 575 



CHAPTER I. 
COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, COCOA AND KAOKA 

IT is allowed that coffee promotes digestion, and ex- 
hilarates the animal spirits ; besides which various 
other qualities are ascribed to it, such as dispelling flatu- 
lency, removing dizziness of the head, attenuating viscid 
humours, increasincf the circulation of the blood, and con- 
sequently perspiration ; but if drank too strong, it affects 
the nerves, occasions watchfulness, and tremor of the 
hands ; though in some phlegmatic constitutions it is apt 
to produce sleep. Indeed, it is to persons of that habit 
that coffee is well accommodated ; for to people of a thin 
and dry habit of body it seems to be injurious. Turkey 
coffee is greatly preferable in flavoui- to that of the West 
Indies. Drank, only in the quantity of one dish, after 
dinner, to promote digestion, it answers best without 
either sugar or milk ; but if taken at other times, it should 
have both, or in place of the latter, rather cream, which 
not only improves the beverage, but tends to mitigate the 
effects of coffee upon the nerves. 

COFFEE. 

Bum the coffee of a deep brown colour, without being 
black ; a sheet-iron burner is best, however an iron skillet 
or saucepan may also be used. For six cups of coffee 
measure six cups full of water which put into a coffee-pot, 
and set on the fire ; when the water boils, put in a little 
isinglass and six heaped dessert spoonsful of powdered 
coffee ; stir it continually, and take it off the fire two or 



2 The Canadian Economist. 

three times to stay the boiling ; lastly take it off, put to 
it a cup of cold water, and leave it to settle for half an 
hour ; draw it otf clear, and warm it up without boiling, 
in order to serve it hot. 

COFFEE AND MILK, 

This is merely very strong coffee added to a large 
proportion of good hot milk ; about six tablespoonsful of 
strong coffee being quite sufficient for a break fastcupful 
of milk, of the essence which answers admirably for coffee 
and milk so much would not be required. A little cream 
mixed with the milk, if the latter cannot be depended 
on for richness, improves the taste of the coffee as also the 
lichness of the beverage. Six tablespoonsful of strong 
coffee or two tablespoonsful of the essence to a breakfast- 
cupful of milk. 

TO MAKE ESSENCE OF COFFEE. 

Ingredients. — To every quarter of a pound of ground 
coffee allow one small teaspoonful of powdered chickory, 
three small teacupsful or one pint of water. Mode, let 
the coffee be freshly gTound,and,if possible,freshly roasted; 
put it into a filter with the chickory, and pour slowly over 
it the above proportion of boiling water. When it has 
all filtered through, warm the coffee sufficiently to bring 
it to the simmering point, but do not allow it to boil ; then 
filter it a second time, put it into a clean and dry bottle, 
cork it well, and it will remain good for several days. 
Two tablespoonsful of this essence are quite sufficient for 
a breakfastcupful of hot milk. This essence will be found 
useful for those persons who have to rise extremely early 
and having only the milk to make boiling, is very easily 
and quickly prepared. When the essence is bottled, pour 
another three teacupsful of boiling water slowly on the 
grounds, which when filtered through will be a very weak 
coffee. The next time there is essence to be prepared, 
make this weak coffee boiling, and pour it on the ground 



Mode of Making Coffee. 3 

coii'ee iii>tead of plain water, by this means a better coffee 
may be obtained. Never throw away the gi-ounds with- 
out having made use of them in this manner ; and always 
cork the bottle well that contains this {)reparation, until 
the da}' that it is wanted for making the fresh essence. To 
be filtered once, then brought to the boiling point and 
filtered again. Allow two tablespoonsful for a breakfast- 
cupful of good milk, 

TO MAKE COFFEE. 

Soyer. 

Put 2 ozs. of ground coffee into a stewpan, which set 
upon the fire, stimng the powder round with a spoon 
until quite hot, then pour over a pot of boiling water, 
cover over closely for five minutes, when pass it through 
a cloth, warm and serve. 

COFFEE, FRENCH FASHION. 

Soyer. 

To a pint of cofiee made as before directed, add a pint 
of boiling milk, warm both together, until nearly boiling, 
and serve. 

HOW TO »IAKE SUPERIOR COFFEE. 

Mrs. Kennedy, Owen Sound. 

One tablespoonf ul of coffee, quarter of an egg, mix well 
in two teaspoon-sful of cold water, add one pint of boil- 
ing water, boil fifteen or twenty minutes. 

MODE OF MAKING COFFEE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Three tablespoonsful of fresh ground coffee to every 
pint of water. Put the coffee inte a basin and break into 
it an egg — yolk, white, shell and all ; mix well with a 
spoon, and pour on the water boiling.* Put into the coffee- 



4 The Canadian Economist. 

pot ; let it boil up and break three times, and then put 
the coffee pot on an iron stand on the back of the stove 
until wanted. 

VIENNA COFFEE. 

Home Messenger Book. 

With very little extra trouble morning coffee can be 
greatly improved. Beat the white of an egg to a stiff 
froth ; mix with an equal quantity of whipped cream, and 
use in coffee instead of cream ; put in cream first, then 
coffee, and lastly this mixture. Some body try it and 
let me know if they don't find Vienna Coffee a great 
improvement on the plain Yankee. 

CHOCOLATE. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Chocolate should be boiled in water^. if you wish to 
retain its original flavour. Do not grate it, but cut the 
quantity for each cup into three or four pieces. To an 
ounce of chocolate put one ounce and a half of boiling 
water ; boil it over a brisk fire, and reduce it to a third ; 
put this third into good cream, but do not boil it again. 
It is useless to stir it more than three or four times dur- 
ing the boiling. Chocolates which contain any farina 
and much sugar, are heavy and unwholesome. 

MAKING COFFEE. 

The roasted berries should not be ground until a few 
minutes before you wish to make the liquid coffee. The 
coffee-pot should be heated previously to putting in the 
coffee, which may be done by means of boiling water, 
The common custom of boiling coffee is unnecessary, as 
all the flavour is extracted by boiling hot water. To 
clarify the coffee add a shred of isinglass, a small piece of 
tish-skin or a spoonful of the white of an egg. 



Kaoka Cofee. 5 

COFFEE. 

Coffee, as commonly prepared by persons unacquain ted 
with its nature, is a decoction, and is boiled for some time, 
under the mistaken notion that the strength is not ex- 
tracted unless it is boiled ; but the fact is the reverse. 
The fine aromatic oil, which produces the flavour and 
strength of the coffee, is dispelled and lost by boiling, and 
a mucilage is extracted at the same time which makes it 
flat and weak. The best modes are to pour boiling water 
through the strainer, which is found to extract nearly all 
the strength, or to pour boiling water upon it and set it 
upon the fire not to exceed ten minutes. As a medicine 
strong coffee is a powerful stimulant and cordial, and in 
paroxysms of the asthma it is one of the ver}' best reme- 
dies ; but it should be made very strong and with almost 
as much coffee as water. In faintness or exhau.stion from 
labour and fatigue, and from sickness, coffee is one of the 
most cordial restoratives. There are coffee machines in 
which the water is boiled, and the steam penetrates the 
coffee and extracts to a great degree the fine aroma. 
Immediately afterwards the boiling water is poured over 
it, and thus the best coffee is made. In Europe coffee is 
generally roasted in a cylinder, but in Asia open pans or 
tin plates are used, and every bean is picked out, when it 
has reached the right degree of brownaess. 

boys' coffee. 

Crumb bread or dry toast into a bowl ; put on plenty 
of sugar or molasses ; put in one half milk and one half 
boiling water ; to be eiten with a spoon, or drank if pre- 
ferre'3. 

KAOKA coffee. 

Mrs. Ritchie. 

Place in any ordinary coffee-pot, pan or saucepan, about 
the same quantity of Kaoka as wofTld be used of coffee 



6 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

in making coffee. Then pour on it the same proportion 
of boiling water. Set it on the stove and let it boil fifteen 
or twenty minutes or more ; while boiling, add one tea- 
cup of liquid coffee. Then remove from the stove and 
let it settle. Cream or boiled milk and sugar to be used 
with it to suit the taste. It will be fouiKl to be improved 
by long sinmiering on the stove, but must not be poured 
out until it has stood awhile, off the stove, to settle. 

COFFEE. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Burn the coffee of a fine, deep brown colour, without 
being black; a sheet-iron burner is best; however, an 
iron skillet or saucepan may also be used. For six cups 
of coffee, measure six full cups of water, which put into a 
coffee-pot, and set on the fire. When the water boils, 
put in a little isinglass and six heaped dessertspoonsful 
of powdered coffee ; stir it continually, and take it off the 
fire two or three times to stay the boiling. Last!}', take 
it off', put to it a cup of cold water and leave it to settle 
for half an hour ; draw it off clear, and warm it up with- 
out boiling, in order to serve it hot. To serve it with 
cream or milk, put half a cup of coffee more for each cup 
of water. While the coffee is settling, boil the milk, and 
then put to it the quantity of coffee and water, according 
to your taste. " 

COFFEE. 

Miss Beechers Domestic Receipt Booh. 

Mocha and old Java are the best, and time improves all 
kinds, dry it a long time before roasting. Roast it quickly, 
stirring constantly, or it will taste raw and bitter. When 
roasted, put in a bit of butter the size of a chestnut. 
Keep it shut up close, or it loses its strength and flavour. 
I^ever grind it till you want to use it, as it loses flavour 
by standing. To prepare it, put two great spoonsful to 



Black Tea. 7 

each pint of water ; mix it with the white, yolk and shell 
of an egg ; pour on hot but not boiling water ; and boil it 
not over ten minutes. Take it off, pour in half a teacup 
of cold water, and in live minutes pour it off without 
shakintj. When egcrs are scarce, clear with fish skin. 
Boiled milk improves both tea and coffee, but must be 
boiled separately. 

TEAS. 

Home Messenger Book. 

Tea is a most refi-eshing beverage, and every one in this 
country is accustomed to drink it, from the inmates of the 
hospitals to dwellers in comfortable homes, or in richly 
furnished ones, where 

" The bubbling and loud hissing urn 
Sends up a steamy column ; and the cups 
That cheer, but not inebriate, wait on each." 

Tea is made variously as the taste of people require. — 
Black, Green, Japan and English Breakfast, all require 
different methods. For Green or Japan tea, scald the 
teapot, and allow from one-half to one teaspoonful for 
each person, as the strength of the herb may indicate. 
Pour over this one half-a-cup of boiling water, steep in 
a hot place (but do not let it boil) ten minutes, then turn 
in water at a keen boil, in proportion — one quart to ever 
three pei-sons. 

ENGLISH BREAKFAST OR OOLONG. 

Take two teaspoonsful for three pereons, and proceed 
as above, only letting the tea boil for ten minutes. 

BLACK TEA. 

Black tea is much more suitable than green for sick 
persons, as it does not affect the nerves. Put a teaspoon- 
ful in a pot that will hold about two cups, and pour boil- 
ing water upon it. Let it set by the fire to draw for five 
or ten minutes. 



8 The Canadian Economist. 

TEAS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

To mix tea — Take of the best black tea one pound, 
and quaiter-pound of the best gunpowder, mix togetlier 
thoroughly. Take a small coffee-cup, about three-quarters 
full, for an ordinary sized teapot, have your teapot soak- 
ing for five or ten minutes with boiling water, when tea is 
ready pour out the water and put in the tea, and pour on 
it a small cupful of boiling water, let it stand for five 
minutes, and then fill up the teapot with boiling water 
and take it into table. 

AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR MILK OR CREAM IN TEA 
OR COFFEE. 

Allow one new laid egg to every large breakfast-cup 
of tea or coffee, beat up the whole of the egg in a basin, 
put it into a cup and pour over it the tea or coffee very 
hot. These should be added very gradually, and stirred 
all the time to prevent the egg from curdling. In point 
of nourishment both these beverages are much improved 
by this addition. Allow one egg to every large breakfast- 
cupful of tea or coffee. 

TO MAKE A CUP OF GOOD TEA. 

Three teaspoonsful of tea to a pint of water, pour on 
the boiling hot water, and let the tea steep ten minutes. 

THE USE OF TEA. 

Dr. Adam Smith, in a paper read before the London 
Society of Arts, recommends the use of tea in the following 
cases : — After a full meal, when the system is oppressed, 
for the corpulent and the old, for hot climates, and es- 
pecially for those who, living there, eat freely, or drink 
milk or alcohol, in cases of suspended animation, for 
soldiers and others marching in hot climates ; for then, by 



Chocolate. 9 

promoting evaporation and cooling the body, it prevents in 
a degree the eifects of too much food, as of too great heat. 

TO MAKE TEA. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Put freshly drawn cold water into the kettle, and the 
moment it boils make the tea. If the water continues in 
ebullition for half a minute after reaching the boilins: 
point its character becomes changed, and it is rendered 
unfit for tea-making. Rinse an earthenware teapot with 
boiling water — it should not be too large for the quantity 
of liquid required — and put into it rather less than a 
quarter ounce of tea, — or in measure — two large teaspoons- 
ful of tea, and pour on it somewhat slowly, half-a-pint of 
boiling water, cover the pot with a cozey, and allow the 
tea to stand exactly five minutes, with a silver teaspoon 
stir it up, let it stand five or six minutes to settle, and 
having put sugar into the cup, pour it out, and add cream, 
milk or lemon-juice as required. It is seldom that carbo- 
nate of soda is requisite to bring out the qualities of really 
fine tea, though it may be advantageously employed in 
small quantities for inferior kinds of tea, and in places 
where the water is very hard. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Chocolate or roasted cocoa is frequently used as a 
nutritive and agreeable diluent, particularly at breakfast, 
beincr made into an emulsion with suorar and milk. It is 
difficult of digestion, and frequently disagrees with those 
who have delicate digestive organs, although instances 
occasionally occur where it is more suitable than either 
tea or cofiee. The roasted shell is also employed in the 
manufacture of a similar beverage which has a pleasant 
flavour, but is slightly astringent. 



10 The Canadian Economic. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Chocolate should be boiled in water, if you wish to 
retain its original flavour. Do not grate it, but cut the 
quantity for each cup, into three or four pieces. To an 
ounce of chocolate put one ounce and a half of boiling 
water, boil it over a brisk fire and reduce it to a third ; 
put this third into good cream but do not boil it again. It 
is useless to stir it more than two or three times during 
the boiling. Chocolates which contain any farina and 
much sugar, are heavy and unwholesome. 

GERMAN CHOCOLATE. 

For six persons, two cakes of German sweet chocolate ; 
when grated, put with it the yolks of two eggs, and water 
enough to mix well together, put it in the chocolate boiler 
with one half pint of hot water, taking care to stir well. 
After boiling five minutes add one quart of boiling milk, 
and then add the whites of the two eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, stirring all the while. It must be sent to the table 
as soon as possible after the whites of the eggs are put in. 
Put two tablespoonsful of sugar in while boiling. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Have one quart of good milk boiling, grate a piece of 
chocolate three inches square, mix it with a little cold 
milk, then stir it gradually into the boiling milk, boil half 
an hour. 

TO MAKE CHOCOLATE. 

Allow half an ounce of chocolate to each person, to every 
ounce allow half a pint of water, half apint of milk, make 
the milk and water hot, scrape the chocolate into it and 
stir the mixture constantly and quickly until the choco- 
late is dissolved ; bring it to the boiling point, stir it well 
and serve directly with white sugar. Chocolate prepared 
within a mill is made by putting in the scraped chocolate, 



Cocoa. 11 

pouring over it the boiling milk and water, and milling it 
over the fire until hot and frothy. Allow half a cake of 
chocolattTto each person. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Four heaping tablespoonsful of grated chocolate, one of 
sugar, and wet with one of boilint; water, rub this smooth, 
then stir into it one pint of boiling water, then add one 
pint of boiling milk, let this boil three minutes. It is 
gi-eatly improved by milling while boiling with a Dover 
egg-beater. If desired sweet add to the boiling milk one 
heaping tablespoonful of sugar. A dainty addition is two 
tablespoonsful of whipped cream that has been sweetened 
and favoured with vanilla laid on the top of each cup. 

COCOA. 

Cocoa, or Coco, is a name applied to a preparation rather 
extensively used, and is said to be manufactured from the 
seed coats of the cocoanut mixed with the kernel, or bv 
grinding the roasted nuts without the removal of the 
shell. It is more astringent than chocolate, but in other 
respects is similai* in properties. 

COCOA. 

Soyer. 

Put a teaspoonf ul and a half of cannistered cocoa into 
a cup, which fill by degi-ees with boiling milk, stir it until 
dissolved when it is ready to serve, sugar separately. 



CHAPTER II. 
SOUPS. 

THE delicate and proper blending of savours is the 
chief art of good soup-making. Be sure and skim 
the grease off the soup when it first boils, or it will not be- 
come clear. Throw in a little salt to bring up the scum. 
Remove all the grease. 

Soup is wholesome. The London Food Journal says : 
" Physiologically, soup has great value for those who 
hurry to and from their meals, as it allows an interval of 
comparative rest to the fainting stomach before the more 
substantial beef and mutton is attacked, rest before solid 
food being as important as rest after it. Let a hungry and 
weary merchant plunge boldly into roast beef, and what is 
the result ? The defeat is often as precipitate as was the 
attack. When the body is weary the stomach must be 
identified with it, and cannot therefore stand the shock of 
some ill-masticated, half-pound weight of beef. But if a 
small plateful of light soup be gently insinuated into the 
system, nourishment will soon be introduced, and strength 
will follow to receive more substantial material." 

COCK A LEEKIE SOUP. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottatva. 

Two pounds or more of veal, cut it into pieces, like the 
flesh from the bi-east of a fowl, and put them in the pan 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of lean bacon, 
three cloves, two onions sliced, two teaspoonsful of salt. 



Hodge Podge. 13 

one of sugar, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a gill of water, 
set it on the fire, turn it over until it forms a white glazing 
at the bottom, add to it five pints of water ; simmer half 
an hour, pass through a sieve ; save all the best pieces of 
the veal. Take two pounds of leeks, free them from the 
top green part, and blanch them for ten minutes in a gallon 
of water and drain them ; then boil the stock and half of 
the leeks together, till almost in a pulp, then add the 
other half of the leeks, and the meat. Simmer half an hour 
and serve. 

TO MAKE GOOD BROWN SOUP. 

Mrs. Brough, (Mtavxi. 

Get two large shanks, chop both shanks in three pieces, 
put them in an ii-on pot with four carrots, two turnips, 
three large sized onions, with the skin on, as it adds to the 
coloui-, a bunch of parsley, one tablespoonf ul of salt, two 
teaspoonsful of pepper, two gallons of water. Boil for two 
days, then strain and when cold take off all the fat and 
the soup will be a nice rich brown and a very thick jelly, 
which you can cut with a knife. Keep adding to the 
water as the soup boils down. In the winter this soup 
will keep for a long time, and is most excellent for inva- 
lids. Serve with toast cut in dice and put in the tureen, 
and the soup poured over, it is very good ; for a change, 
put one pint bottle of tomatoes to one quart of soup. 
For another change, you may put macaroni. 

HODGE PODGE. 

Mi's. B]\)ugh, Ottawa. 

Cut two pounds of fresh scrag of mutton into small 
pieces, which put into a stew pan, with three quarts of cold 
water and a tea.spoonful of salt, one of sugar, half a one of 
pepper, set it on the fire. When it comes to a boil, place on 
the side of the stove to simmer foi- one hour. Keep it 
skimmed. Wash a large carrot, two turnips, two onions, and 



14 lite Canadian Economifit. 

six small cabbage-lettuces, cut them up and place in the 
pot and boil till done. A pint of green jjeas, and a carrot 
grated is an improvement. 

PEA SOUP. 

Mrs. James Cunningham, Ottaiva. 

One quart of split peas, boiled in three quarts of water 
until quite soft. Then drain it through a colander. Toast 
a slice of bread and cut it up into small pieces, and fry the 
same until quite brown in a greased pan, add this to the 
soup with a quarter pound of butter, and pepper and salt 
to taste, 

BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. James Cunningham, Ottawa. 

One quart small white beans, boiled until quite soft in 
water ; add two quarts of milk and four onions well fried 
in butter, then add a lump of butter with })epper and salt. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Mrs. James Cunningham, Ottaiua. 

Make a strong stock, and to this add chopped onions, 
turnips, carrots, celery and a small cup of pearl barley, 
pepper and salt to taste. Boil four hours slowly. 

TURKISH SOUP. 

Mrs. Paul Campbell, Toronto. 

One quart of white stock, half a teacupful of white 
rice. The yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful of cream, 
half a tablespoonful of salt, and an equal amount of 
I^epper. In preparing this soup, boil first tliQ rice in the 
stock for twenty minutes. At the end of this time, pass 
the whole through a wire sieve, rubbing such of the rice 
as may stick through with a wooden spoon, then stir it 



Fish So'^p. 15 

thoroughly to beat out such lumps as the rice may have 
^fonned, and return all to the saucepan. The yolks of the 
eggs, cream, pepper, and salt, must now be well beaten to- 
gether, and added to the stock and rice, and the whole 
stirred over the fii"e for two minutes, care being taken to 
prevent boiling, after the eggs are put in, for reasons 
already given. This soup should be served very hot. 

WHITE STOCK. 

Mrs. Paid Campbell, Toronto. 

Oue fowl, two pounds of veal, three quarts cold water, 
one Bermuda onion, two leeks, one head of celery, two 
cloves, half a tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
whole white pepper. The veal and fowl must tii-st be put 
into a large saucepan and covered with water, when it 
should be brought quickly to a boiling point, that the 
scum may rise to be removed, when this is done the salt 
must be thrown in after which it must be skimmed again 
and the vegetables thrown in, the cloves and pepper also, 
and then the whole left to simmer slowly three houi-s. 
At the end of this time, it should be strained through a 
clean towel and allowed to cool. 

PEA SOUP. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Cold roast beef bones boiled until all the strength is 
out. Put in some chopped unions. Mix three heaping 
tablespoonsful of pease brose in cold water. Pour this in 
the pot, and let it just boil up for a short time. 

FISH SOUP. 

Miss Elliott, Gtielph. 

All fisli soups should be made with milk, if unskim- 
med so much the better, using no water whatever. Cut 



IG The Canadian Economist. 

off their heads, tails and fins, and remove the skin, and 
the backbone and cut the fish into pieces. To each pound' 
of fish allow a quart of i-ich milk. Put into the soup-pot 
some pieces of cold boiled ham. No salt will then be 
required, but season with cayenne pepper, and a few blades 
of mace and some grated nutmeg, add a bunch of sweet 
marjoram, the leaves stripj)ed from the stalks and chopped. 
Make some little dumplings of flour and butter and put 
them in when the soup is about half done. Half an hours 
steady boiling will be sufficient. Serve up in the tureen, 
the pieces of fish and ham, also, some toast cut in dice. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Take two or three fine fresh lobsters (the middle sized 
are the best). Heat a large pot of water, throwing in a 
large handful of salt. When it is boiling hard, put in the 
lobsters, head foremost, that they may die immediately. 
They will require at least half an hour's fast boiling ; if 
large, three-quarters. When done, take them out, wipe off 
the scum that has collected on the shell, and drain the 
lobster. First, break off the large claws and crack them, 
then split the body and extract all the white meat, and the 
red coral, nothing else, and cut it into small pieces. Mash 
the coral into smooth bits with the back of the spoon, 
mixing with it plenty of sweet oil ; and gradually adding 
to it the bits of chopped lobster. Put into a clear soup- 
pot two quarts of good milk, and thicken it with half o 
dozen butter biscuits, pounded fine, or the gi-ated crumbs 
of two or three small rolls, and stir in a quarter of a pouna 
of fresh butter made into a paste, with two spoonsful of 
flour. Put in the chopped lobster, seasoned with nut- 
meg, a few blades of mace powdered, and a little cayenne. 
Let all boil together slowlj'^ for half an hour, keeping it 
closely covered. Towards the last, stir in two beaten eggs, 
Lay some very small biscuits, in the bottom of the tureen 



Simss Soup. 17 

and pour the soup upon them. Nasturtium flowers, 
strewed, at the last, thickly, over the surface of this soup, 
when in the tuieen, are an improvement both to its ap- 
pearance and flavour. 

WHITE SOUP (without MEAT). 

Book of the Household. 

Put two or three quarts of water into a saucepan with the 
crumb of a small loaf, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few cloves, 
whole pepper, an ounce or two cut across, and a little salt ; 
cover closely and boil till perfectly smooth. Cut into 
small pieces some celer}% endive and lettuce, the white parts 
only, boil them, strain off" the soup into a clean saucepan, 
put in the herbs with a good piece of butter and keep stir- 
ring until it is melted ; then boil it till quite smooth, skim 
it, soak some French roll nicely rasped in a little of the 
soup, put it in a tureen, pour the remainder of the soup 
over and send to table. 

GERMAN SOUP. 

Boil a knuckle of veal, or any veal bones, and some good 
stock, then add one or two turnips, according to size ; one 
carrot and some onions, a little lemon, thyme, a very small 
stick of celeiy and three or four cloves. Let all boil well, 
and strain it off" for use, thicken it, and add the yolks of six 
eggs to three quarts of soup, and one gill of thick cream ; 
pepper and salt to taste. A little vermicelli, a little lean 
ham, and one blade of mace will improve the stock. A 
most delicious soup. 

SWISS SOUP. 

Take good broth, say five pint-^, made from veal or 
chicken and let it boil ; beat up three eggs and add to 
them three tablespoonsful flour, and one break fa stcupful 
of milk. Pour this in gi^adually to the boiling soup through 
a sieve, add nutmeg, salt and cavenne pepper to tast€. 
2 



18 The Canadian Economist 

MUTTON BROTH. 

The best part for making broth is the chump end of the 
loin, but it may be made very good from the scrag end of 
the neck only, which should be stewed gently until it be- 
comes tender, fully two hours or longer if it be large, but 
not boiled to rags ; a few grains of whole pepper, with a 
couple of fried onions and some turnips should be put along 
with the meat an hour or two before sending up the broth, 
which siiould be strained from the vegetables and chopped 
parsley and thyme be mixed in it. The turnips should be 
mashed and served in a separate dish to be eaten with the 
mutton, with parsley and butter caper sauce. - If meant 
for persons in health it ought to be strong or it will be in- 
sipid. Cooks usually skim it frequently'; but if given as 
a remedy for a severe cold, it is much better not to remove 
the fat, as it is very healing to the chest. 

ANOTHER WAY FOR AN INVALID. 

Boil three pounds of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, 
cut into pieces, in three quarts of water with two turnips 
and a tablespoonful of pearl barley or rice; let it boil gently 
for three hours, keeping it cleanly skimmed. Serve with 
bits of toasted bread. 

BEEF BROTH. 

It consists in a decoction of beef, leg of veal, an old hen, 
carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, cloves stuck in a burnt onion, 
water and salt. This broth must be done gently for three 
hours so that the water dissolves the mucous part of the 
meat, and easily separates from the scum. It can be pre- 
pared in a Bain Marie, and in this manner is more deli- 
cate. 

MEAGRE BROTH WITH ROOTS. 

Young carrots and turnips, a bunch of each, a quarter of 
a bunch of leeks, as much onions, two heads of celery, two 



Glaze. 19 

cloves, a little salt, very little pepper, in six quarts of water. 
This broth delights the stomach, but is rather exciting 
after eating it. 

hunter's soup. 

CojSselVs Household Guide. 

Three partridges are to be cooked, between slices of ba- 
con, and then allowed to become cold. Now remove the 
skin from them, and cut each limb into two pieces, and ar- 
range them at the bottom of a tureen ; aftewards take 
what is left of the partridges, and stew it in a sufficient 
quantity of the soup, then skim and strain the soup, and 
pour it over the partridges in the tureen. 

GLAZE. 

Little Dinners. 

Take a knuckle of veal with very little meat on, three 
pounds of shin of beef, a ham bone, or slice of ham, one 
dozen of onions, a few herbs and two or three cloves or 
pepper corns. 

Let your butcher chop the knuckle of veal into small 
pieces, cut up the beef and ham, put all into your stock- 
pot, let the juices draw out slowly, and then reduce as di- 
rected for clear gravy soup ; when this is done cover the 
meat with water, and when it has boiled up skim it and 
let it boil six or eicjht hours. Strain it first through a 
colander, then thi'ough a line lawn sieve, let it stand until 
the next day, take off evory particle of fat, then put the 
glaze into a stew-pan, boil up without the lid, and take 
off any scum as it rises. Let it boil very fast until it is re- 
duced to a small quantity, and becomes gluey, then pour 
it into a basin or soup-plate, and it will turn out next day 
very hard. This is most useful to enrich soups and gravies ; 
indeed soup can be made by pouring boiling water on a 
little of it. It is always very good for travellers as meat 



20 The Canadian Economist. 

lozenges. An economical glaze can be made with mutton 
shanks and any bones you have by you and is very good 
if carefully made. 

BROWN EABBTT SOUP. 

Little Dinners. 

Cut down into joints, flour and fry lightly, two full- 
grown rabbits ; add to them three small onions, also fried 
to a clear brown ; on these pour gradually seven pints of 
boiling water ; throw in a teaspoonful of salt, clear off 
the scum with care as it rises, and then put to the soup a 
faggot of parsley, four not very large carrots, and a small 
teaspoonful of pepper corns ; boil the whole very softly 
from five hours to five and a half ; add more salt if 
needed ; strain off" the soup, let it cool sufficiently for the 
fat to be skimmed clean from it, heat it afresh, and send it 
to table with sippets of fried bread. Spice with a thick- 
ening of flour, browned in the oven, and mixed with a 
spoonful or two of very good mushroom catsup. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Little Dinners. 

Giblets should be well washed in warm water tw^o or 
three times, the bones broken, the neck and gizzards cut 
into convenient pieces ; the head also should be split in 
two. If goose giblets are used, a couple of sets should be 
dressed ; but if duck giblets are used, four sets will be 
wanted. A pint of water is to be allowed for each set. 
Put them into cold water, let them boil up gradually, 
take off" the scum, and when they boil, add some sweet 
herbs, pepper, salt, mace, &c., and an onion. Let the 
whole stew an hour and a half or two hours until the 
gizzards are tender ; take out the giblets, strain the soup, 
and thicken it with a little flour and a bit of butter, and 
flavour it with a tablespoonful of catsup, or a little of 
Harvey's sauce. Serve up the giblets and soup together. 



Kidney Soup. 21 

PLAIX BEEF SOUP. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Take a shin or fore-leg of beef, nicely cut in pieces or 
sawed through the bone, and put into cold water — one 
quart of w^ater to one pound of meat. It requires four 
or live hours boiling, When the water is just at the 
boiling point, skim it well ; add pepper to taste, six 
potatoes whole, two turnips in slices, one can-ot grated, 
one large or two small onions, and if you choose two or 
three tomatoes. Let the whole boil slowly. Within half 
an hour, add one tublespoonful of salt, strain and skim 
off the fat. Boil a few minutes. 

A RICH SOUP. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Take part of a shin of beef, a small shin of veal, a neck 
of mutton, a knuckle of ham, the giblets of a turkey and 
chicken, and bits of cold meat if you have any. Put 
them all into the soup pot, immediately after dinner, with 
six quarts of water, one carrot, one turnip, one onion, two 
potatoes, and a little pepper. Put the pot upon a biisk 
fire, and let it come to a boil. Then place it in a corner 
of the fire and let it boil gently until bed-time ; then strain 
it through a colander and set it away to cool. Three houi"s 
before dinner, take ott" the fat, return the jelly to the soup 
pot, add a little salt, half a teaspoonful of celery seed, and 
if you like it a little vermicelli ; place it over a moderate 
fire, boil half an hour, then serve. The seasoning of this 
soup may be varied, and thus several varieties may be 
made from the same meat. This soup must boil slowly. 

KIDNEY SOUP. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Take two beef kidneys, wash and cut them in small 
pieces ; fry them of a dark brown ; put them to boil with 
spice to taste; thicken with flour. 



22 The Canadian Economist. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

In four or five quarts of water, boil a calf's head and 
harslet until tender ; take them out, strain the liquor and 
skim off the fat ; cut the meat, the light part of the 
heart, part of the liver into pieces about an inch square ; 
put these into the liquor, with two onions cut very fine, 
a few cloves, a little mace, pepper and salt to your taste ; 
boil gently one hour and a half. Put the whole yolks of 
four eggs boiled hard, and the whites cut fine. Pour the 
soup in boiling hot. One or two lemons cut in slices and 
put into the tureen will add richness to the flavour and 
give a delicate relish. Take the remainder of the harslet 
and chop fine half a pound of lean veal and a slice of salt 
pork ; add the brains, pepper, salt, sweet heibs and sage ; 
break in one egg, and mix the whole well together, and 
then make them into balls size of half an egg, and fry 
them in butter, a delicate brown ; put part in the soup 
and serve part on a dish garnished with curled parsley 
and slices of lemon. 

BROWN SOUP. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Take a well-sized piece of hough, cut it down, have 
i-eady a clean pan, put it on a slow fire, rub the bottom 
with a little marrow, put in all the fieshy pieces. Let 
them stew gently for one hour ; fill the pot to the brim 
with cold water. Let it continue boiling a whole day ; 
the bones sawed into pieces and laid on the top ; also half 
a dozen onions, one carrot, one turnip, a few whole pepper-s, 
a blade of mace and a few cloves. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Georgetown. 

Take four pounds of beef for four quarts of water, put 
it over a moderate fire with two quarts of water, let it 



Vegetable Soup. 23 

boil gently for one hour, then add two more quarts of 
boiling water and boil for another hour, having added at 
the same time with the water half cup of rice or pot barley; 
then add the vesfetables as follows : one large carrot 
scraped and cut in thin slices, one large turnip cut in the 
same manner, then fifteen minutes after add four potatoes 
and one head of celery cut small, let it boil, and as soon 
as the vegetables are tender it is done. 

SIMPLE WHITE SOUP. 

Mrs. McNaclitan, Cohourg. 

Take the fat from the top of your turkey soup stock, 
strain, rubbing the dressingr throucfh a colander ; simmer 
one hour with half a sliced onion and four tablespoonsful 
of soaked rice in it, until the rice is soft ; be careful that 
it does not scorch ; strain through the soup-sieve into the 
tureen, add pepper and salt if needed ; finally a cup of 
hot milk in which has been stirred and cooked, for one 
minute, two beaten eorcrs. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. McN'achtan, Cohourg. 

Peel, by pouring boiling water over them, a dozen fine 
tomatoes ; cut them up, throwing aside the hard portions, 
take the fat from the surface of your soup-stock, pour it 
off" from the meat and sediment, add the tomatoes and 
stew gently for half an hour; strain, rubbing the tomatoes 
through a sieve, return to the pot; add a little pepper and 
salt, a lump of sugar and a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
in fiour. Boil ten minutes and pour out. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Mrs. McNaclitan, Cohourg. 

Cut into thin, short strij>s one carrot, one turnip, one 
onion ; peel and slice six fine tomatoes, half cup of boiled 



24 The Canadian Economist. 

rice, three pints of soup-stock, one pint of boiling water, 
seasoned at discretion; boil the vegetables tender in a little 
hot salted water, drain, butter, and keep them hot ; the 
tomatoes should be stewed in another vessel twenty-five 
minutes, and seasoned ; add to stock soup one pint of boil- 
ing water and simmer half an hour, then strain, return 
to the fire with the cooked vegetables and boiled rice, 
stew gently ten minutes and turn out. 

POTATO SOUP, 

Mrs. McKinnon, Gloucester St. 

One quart of milk, six potatoes boiled and peeled, quarter 
pound of butter, season with pepper and salt, mash the 
potatoes fine, and while masbing add the butter, salt and 
pepper, pour in gradually the milk boiling, stir it well 
and strain through a sieve, beat up an egg and put in the 
tureen after the soup is strained, heat it again as it cools 
in straining. 

BEAN OR PEA SOUP. 

Mrs. H. McElroy, Richmond. 

Take a shank of frosh beef and two or three gallons of 
water, boil together three hours, take two quarts of peas 
or l)eans, boil till soft, then strain through a colander and 
add to the liquid, after the meat has been removed, and 
season wnth onions, pepper and salt to suit the taste. 

SOUP FROM A COLD ROAST BONE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

After breakfast put on the soup-pot, fill it up with cold 
water and put in the roast bone freed from all fat and as 
much of the meat as it is possible to cut oft'; wash a 
breakfastcupful of pearl barley and empty into the pot, 
let the soup boil up and skim it well, and then take the 
pot off and put it back upon the top of the stove ; about 



Oyster Soup. 25 

one hour before dinner add one tablespoonful of brown 
sugar and pepper and salt to taste. If vegetables are 
liked they may be added at pleasure. 

BABLEY SOUP. 

Miss Mostyn, Almonte. 

Two pounds of shin of beef, quarter of a pound of 
pearl barley, a large bunch of parsley, four onions, six 
potatoes, salt and pepper, four quarts of water ; put in all 
the ingredients and simmer gently for three hours. Season- 
able all the year, but more so in winter, 

OYSTEB SOUP. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Take one quart of oysters, pour upon them one pint of 
cold water and put them into a colander placed over a 
basin or bowl, into which let all the juice and water drain, 
then take a saucepan which will hold about three pints 
and pour the juice in it. Take a piece of butter about 
the size of a walnut and a teaspoonful of flour and mix 
them together as you would for sauce, a saltspoonful of 
salt, the same quantity of pepper, and a dessertspoonful 
or more if you like it, of mushroom catsup ; put these with 
the Vjroth which is already in the .saucepan and let all 
come to a boil. Then take the saucepan from the fire and 
empty into the broth the oystei-s, then set the saucepan 
on the fire again and let its contents all boil up for one 
minute. During this operation take the soup-tureen and 
fill it with boiling water, just before yom- oysters are 
cooked empty out this water and put into the tureen four 
tablespoonsful of milk and two of cream (if you have it, 
if not milk will do), and if you wish you can increase the 
quantity, and pour the contents of the saucepan boiling 
hot into the cold milk in the tureen. Oystei-s are apt to 
disagi-ee with some people just because of the milk being 
boiled. 



2G Tlic Canadicin Economist. 

BONE STOCK FOR SOUP. 

Warm's Every-day Cookery. 

Bones of any meat which has been dressed, as sirloin 
bones, leg of mutton bone, &c., &;c., two scraped carrots, 
one stick of celery, enough cold water to cover the bones, 
or enough of the liquor left from braising meat to cover 
them, one teaspoonful of salt; break the bones into very 
small pieces, put them into a stewpan with the carrots 
and celery ; cover them with cold water, or cold braise 
liquor, and let it boil quickly till the scum rises, skim it 
off and throw in some cold water, when the scum will rise 
again. This must be done two or three times, till the 
stock is quite clear ; then draw the pan from the fire and 
let it stew for two hours till all the goodness is extracted 
from the bones, strain it off and let it stand all night. The 
next day take off the grease very carefully, not leaving 
the least atom on it, and lift it from the sediment at the 
bottom of the pan. It will then be fit for use. It will 
take from two to three hours. 

GENERAL STOCK-POT. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

Stock, in its composition, is not confined to fresh meat 
only, any meat or bones are useful ; pieces of beef from 
any part from which gravy can be extracted ; bones, skin, 
brisket, or tops of ribs, ox-check, pieces of mutton, bacon, 
ham, and trimmings of turkeys, fowls, veal, &c. ; and also 
of hare and pheasant, if they are old and fit for no other 
purpose ; in fact, anything that will become a jelly, will 
assist in making stock. To this medley of ingredients 
add carrots cut into slices, herbs, onions, pepper, salt, spice, 
fcc, and when all have stewed until the stock is of a rich 
consistency, take it off from the fire and pour it out to 
cool. When cold, all the fat must be taken off, and it 
must be poured clear from the sediment. When the soup 



To Clarify Stocks or Soups. 27 

is required to be very rich, the jelly from a cow's heel, or 
a lump of butter rolled in flour, must be added to the 
stock. The stock-pot should never be sutfered to be 
empty, as almost any meats (save salt meats), or fowls 
make stock. The remnants should never be thrown any- 
where but into the stock pot, and should tco much stock 
be already in your possession, boil it down to a glaze, 
\vast€ is thus avoided. 

PEPPER POT. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

Four poimds of gravy beef, six quarts of water, a bou- 
quet of savorA' herbs, two small crabs or lobsters, a large 
bunch of spinach, half a pound of cold bacon, a few suet 
dumplings (made of flour, beefsuet and yolk of one egg), 
one pound of asparagus tops, cayenne pepper, pepper and 
salt to taste, juice of a lemon. Put four pounds of gravy 
beef into six quarts of water, with the bouquet of savory 
herbs ; let it simmer well till all the goodness is extracted, 
skimming it well ; let it stand till cold, that all the fat 
may be taken off* it. Put it into a stewpan and heat it, 
when hot, add the flesh of two middling-sized crabs or 
lobstere, nicely cut up, spinach well Ijoiled and chopped 
flne, half a pound of cold bacon, or pickled pork — dressed 
previously and cut into .small pieces: — a few small dump- 
lings, made very light of flour, beefsuet, j'olk of egg, and 
a little water. Add one pound of aspai-agus tops, sea.son 
to your tiiste with cayenne, salt, pepper, and juice of a 
lemon ; stew for about half-an-hour, stirring it constantly. 

TO CLAKIFY STOCKS OK SOUPS. 

Warne's Evei^y-day Cookeiy. 

The whites of two eggs to about four quarts of stock 
or soup, two pints and a half of cold water, whisk the 
whites of two eggs — ver}' fresh eggs — with half-a-pint of 
w%^r for ten minutes ; then pour in very gently the four 
c|uarts of boiling stock or soup whisking it all the time ; 



28 The Canadian Economist. 

place the stewpan over the fire, skim it clear, and when 
on the point of boiling whisk it all together ; then draw 
it to the side, and let it settle till the whites of the eggs 
become separated ; strain it through a fine cloth placed 
over a sieve, and it will be clear and good. 

CORN SOUP. 

Home Messenger. 

Cut the gi'ains from twelve ears of sweet corn and scrape 
the milk, add one quart of water ; let it boil until quite 
done — thirty to forty minutes — then add two quarts of 
new milk, and when it boils, stir in quarter pound of 
butter rubbed into two tablespoonsful of flour, pepper and 
salt ; beat the yolks of two eggs in the tureen and pour 
the soup in boiling, stirring all the time. 

SORREL SOUP. 

Home Messenger. 

This is a most wholesome soup, which would be most 
popular in America if it were better known. For four 
quarts of soup, put into a saucepan a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, two or three sprigs of parsley, two or three 
leaves of lettuce, one onion and a pint of sorrel, all finely 
chopped, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, cover and let 
them cook or sweat ten minutes ; then add two table- 
spoonsful of flour, mix well, and gradually add three 
quarts of boiling water (stock would be better) ; beat the 
yolks of four eggs — one agg to a quart of soup — and mix 
with them a cupful of cream or rich nnlk ; add a little 
chervil to the soup, let it boil ten minutes, then stir in the 
eggs when the soup is quite ready. 

CROUTONS. 

Home Messenger. 

These are small pieces of bread, fried crisp and brown, 
to be used in soup. • 



Oyster Soup. 29 

OYSTER SOUP, NO. 1. 

Home Messenger. 

For four cans of oysters have twelve crackers rolled 
fine, two quai-ts of boiling water, one pint of good rich 
milk. Let the milk and water come to a boil ; add the 
ci-ackers, salt and pepper ; boil one minute briskly ; pour 
in the oysters and let all come to a scald ; add about a 
quarter of a pound of butter as they are poured into a 
tureen. 

OYSTER SOUP, NO. 2. 

Home 3f€ssen{jer. 

To one quart of oysters add one quart of water ; pour 
the water on the oystei-s and stir them ; take them out 
one at a time, so that no small particle of shell may ad- 
here to them ; strain the liquor through a sieve and put 
it in a stew-pan over the fire, with two or three blades of 
mace, and season with red pepper and salt to taste ; when 
this boils put in your oysters, add a teaspoonful of flour 
nibbed to a paste, with an ounce of butter ; let them 
scald again ; then add half a pint of cream, and serve hot. 

OYSTER SOUP, NO 3. 

Home Messenger. 

To one quart of oystere add half a pint of water. Put 
this on the fire, and as soon as it reaches the boiling point, 
not to boil, strain the liquid through a colander. Put 
into a separate saucepan a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, and to this add, when it bubbles (do not let it scorch) 
a tablespoonf ul of sifted flour ; let this cook a few minutes, 
stiiTing it well ; then add half a pint of sweet milk and 
then the oysters, seasoning with salt and a little cayenne 
pepper. Do not let the soup boil, but keep it quite hot 
for a minute or two after adding the ovsters. Have both 
soup and oysters cooking so equally that neither waits 
for the other. 



30 The Canadian Economist. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Home Messenger. 

Put thirty clams in a pot and four quarts of water. 
Let them boil two hours, and then take them out and 
chop line ; return to the pot and add a little mace and a 
few pepper-corns ; boil one hour longer. Rub somothly 
together a small piece of butter with two tablespoonsful 
of Hour, and stir this \^'ith a pint of boiling milk. When 
the clam soup has boiled three hours, pour it into a tureen 
and stir in the thickened milk. Canned clams make a 
nice soup after the above receipt. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

Take a chicken, boil it all to pieces, and strain. The 
next day put into it small pieces of celery; simmer till 
thoroughly cooked ; then add a cup of cream or milk ; 
thicken it with a little flour ; add pepper and salt. 

TO MAKE RUB-A-BOO. 

il/r. /. W. Wardrope, Winnipeg. 

Take about two pounds of pemmican and chop it up 
very fine. Put it in an iron pot, cover with water, and 
let it boil for about two hours. Then stir in enough 
flour to make a veru thick soup. Serve hot on tin plates. 
This is an exceedingly nice dish for those who can spare 
the time to take about sixteen hours' vigorous exercise 
after eating it. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Anonymous. 

Break up a shin of veal, let it soak in cold water about 
two hours, then put it to boil in four quarts of cold water, 
with one or two onions, a little mace, pepper and salt ; let 



Angel Soup. 31 

it boil about five houi-s, strain it and set it away to cool. 
Next clay take off all the fat, add whatever is required as 
to vegetables; mix two tablespoonsful of ground rice with 
water, stir until it boils enougli and add a pint of good 
sweet (a:'eam, another boil and it is fit for use. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One pint peeled and sliced tomatoes, two quai^ts of boil- 
ing water — boilhalf an hour, — add one teaspoonful of soda, 
butter, size of an egg, salt and pepper ; boil a little longer, 
before dishing add a pint of milk or cream, boil one 
minute, pour over a rolled cracker or bread crumbs. 

TOMATO SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

Dinner Tear Book. 

Twelve large red tomatoes, peeled and sliced, one small 
onion sliced, two tablespoonsful of nice dripping, one of 
chopped parsley, two of butter rolled in flour, pepper and 
salt, one teaspoon of sugar, one small cupful of hot boiled 
rice, one quart of boiling water ; fry the onion in the soup- 
pot in the dripping. When they are of a reddish brown, 
add the tomatoes and stir all up until verj- hot, then put 
in the boiling water and parsley, stew half-an-hour and 
strain, rubbing the tomato through a sieve into the 
hot liquid, return to the pot, season, and when boiling 
again stir in the floured butter, and a minute later the 
rice ; simmer ten minutes and pour out. 

ANGEL SOUP. 

Spanish Cookery. 

Mix with boiling milk half a pound of flour of rice ; 
when it is of the consistency of paste, add the 3-olks of six 
eggs and six whites, half a pound of sugar, some cinnamon 
or other spice, according to taste ; stir it continuallv, and 



32 The Canadian Economist. 

mix it with some broth ; boil it in the Bain Marie and 
serve it of the thickness of soup. 

SPANISH SOUP. 

Spanish Cookery. 

Toast some slices of bread, put them into the soup- 
tureen, and lay between them cooked sheep's liver, broken 
into ver}'^ small pieces and mixed with grated cheese, and 
a sprinkling of spice cinnamon and chopped parsley. 
Take nuts, roast them in the oven, pound them and stew 
in broth ; thin it with more broth, and pour the soup 
thus made into tlie tureen. 




CHAPTER ni. 
OYSTERS. 

OYSTERS are in the finest condition for the table 
from September to April. The fresher they are the 
finer is the flavour ; they are light, moderatively nutritive, 
and easily digested. 

OYSTERS. 

Put a little butter into your stew-pan, with a slice of 
ham, a faggot of parsley, and sweet herbs, and an onion 
stuck with two cloves. Let them stew over a slow fire a 
few minutes, and then add a little flour, some good broth, 
and a piece of lemon peel ; then put in j'our oysters and 
let them simmer till they are thoroughly hot. Thicken 
with the volks of two coders, a little cream, and a bit of 
good butter ; take out the ham, faggot, onion and lemon 
peel, and add the squeeze of a lemon ; give the whole a 
shake in the pan, and when it simmers, put it in your 
dish and serve up. 

TO SCALLOP OYSTERS. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Open four dozen of oysters, detach them from their 
shells, and gently make them boil in their liquor ; drain 
them, put then into a saucepan, a piece of butter, some 
mushrooms, pai-sley and shalots chopped finely ; let them 
stew together ; add a dessertspoonful of flour, and dilute 
the whole with gravy ; stew, reduce the sauce, and put 
in the oysters. Reserve a dozen of the largest and finest 
3 



34 The Canadian Economist. 

shells, and having washed them, put four oysters and 
some sauce into each ; cover them with bread crumbs, 
put on them a little butter, and brown them in a Dutch 
oven, very hot, or by holding a red-hot shovel over them. 
Scallop shells may be used instead of the shells of the 
oyster. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Miss Bunton, Bradford, Pa. 

Boil the liquor of an hundred oysters and pour it over 
them ; when they have stood a few minutes, take them 
out and boil the liquor again with a gill of sugar, a few 
whole black peppers and two or three blades of mace ; 
when this is cold pour it over the oysters and cover 
closely. 

STEWED OYSTERS PLAIN. 

Have your oysters freshly opened, put them with their 
own liquor into a stewpan, give them one good scald, then 
add a good bit of butter and some pepper, and serve with 
cold butter and crackers, and dressed celery. 

COLD SAUCE FOR OYSTERS. 

French Do'}nestic Cookery. 

Chop very finely some shalots, which mix with vinegar 
and pepper ; pour a little over each oyster. 

TO FRICASEE OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Cook, Turkish Bath, Montreal. 

Take one quart of oysters, pour over them their own 
liquor, but drain it off, do not use it, mix one teaspoonf ul 
of flour, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, the same of pepper, and three cupsf ul of milk, 
have ready a bakingdish, put in a layer of oysters, cover 



Oyster Pie. 35 

with some of the mixture, then another layer of oysters 
and so on, till all are used ; then for the top layer cover 
with fine bread-crumbs, bake twenty minutes. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guelph. 

Get some fine large fresh oysters, drain their liquor 
(saving it in a pitcher), and put them in a stewpan with 
a quarter pound of fresh butter, and set them over tlie 
fire ; when they have simmered, and have almost come to 
a boil, remove them from the fire, and have ready a pan 
of very cold water ; take out the oysters, one at a tiuie 
on a fork and put them into the cold water ; this will 
plump them and render them firm. Having saved about 
half their liquor, put it into the stewpan,. seasoned well with 
blades of mace, grated nutmeg, whole pepper corns and a 
little cayenne ; stir in half pint or more of cream ; and if 
you cannot procure cream, an equal quantity of nice fresh 
butter, divided into bits, slightly dredged with a very little 
flour; boil the liquor by itself, and when it comes to a boil 
take the oysters out of the cold water and put them into the 
boiling liquor. In five minutes remove the pan from the 
fire, the oystei-s having simmered, and transfer them to a 
tureen or deep dish, in the bottom of which has been laid 
a buttered toast, that has been previously dipped for a 
minute in hot water or milk. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guel'ph. 

Having buttered the inside of a deep dish, line it with 
puflT-paste rolled out rather thick, and prepare another 
sheet of paste for the lid ; put a clean towel into the dish 
(folded so as to support the lid) and then put on the lid, 
set it into the oven and bake the paste well, when done 
remove the lid and take out the towel. While the paste 



3G The Canadian Economist. 

is baking, prepai-e the oysters ; having picked off carefully 
any bits of shell that may be found about them, lay them 
into a sieve and drain off the liquor into a pan ; put the 
oysters into a skillet or stewpan, with barely enough of 
the liquor to keep them from burning ; season them with 
whole pepper, blades of mace, some grated nutmeg, and 
some grated lemon-peel (the yellow rind only), and a little 
finely -minced celery ; then add a large portion of fresh 
butter, divided into bits, and very slightly dredged with 
tiour ; let the oysters simmer over the fire, but do not 
allow them to come to a boil, as that will shrivel them. 
Next beat the yolks only of three, four or five eggs (in 
proportion to the size of the pie), and stir the beaten eggs 
into the stew a few minutes before you take it from the 
fire ; keep it warm till the paste is baked, then carefully 
remove the lid ofi" the pie, and place it, after you have 
filled the dish with the oysters and gravy. The lid of 
the pie may be ornamented with a wreath of leaves, cut 
out of paste and put on before baking. In the centre 
place a paste-knot of flower. Oyster pies are generally 
eaten warm, but they are very good cold. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guelph. 

For fried oysters, take only the largest and finest ; they 
should be as fresh as you can get them ; take them out of 
their liquor carefully with a fork, picking off" whatever 
bits of shell may be about them ; dry in a clean napkin, 
prepare some grated bread-crumbs or pounded biscuit, 
seasoned with cayenne pepper; have ready plenty of yolk 
of egg, beaten till very light, and to each egg allow a large 
teaspoonful of cream, or of the best fresh butter ; beat the 
egg and cream together ; dip each oyster first into the 
egg, &c., and then into the crumbs ; repeat this twice 
till the oysters are well coated all over ; have ready boil- 



Fried Oysters. 37 

ing in a pan, an equal quantity of fresh butter and lard ; 
it must come neaily to the edge or top of the fryingpan, 
and be boiling fast, when the oysters go in, otherwise 
they will be heavy and greasy and sink to the bottom. 
Fry them of a yellow brown on both sides, send them to 
table very hot. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Allow to each egg^ a heaped tablespoonful of flour and 
a small teacupful of milk, beat the eggs until very light 
and thick, then stir them gradually into the pan of milk 
in turn with the flour, a little at a time, beat the whole 
ver}' hard, have ready the oysters that you may proceed 
immediately to baking the fritters ; the oysters should be 
fresh and of the lai;gest size ; having drained them from 
their liquor, and dried them separately in a cloth, and 
dredged them with flour, set over the fire a fryingpan 
nearly full of lard, when it boils fast put in a large spoon- 
ful of butter, then lay an oyster upon it and cover the 
oyster with another spoonful of butter, fry the fritters of 
a nice yellow ; as they are done take them up ; drain oflf 
the lai'd from the oysters and serve up. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Miss Mostyn, Almonte. 

Three dozen of oysters, two ounces of butter, one 
tablespoonful of catsup, a little chopped lemon-peel, half 
a teaspoonful of chopped ] arsley ; boil the oysters for one 
minute in their own liquor and drain them ; fry them with 
the butter, catsup, lemon-peel and pareley ; la}' them on a 
dish and garnish with fried potatoes, toasted sippets and 
parsley. This is a delicious delicacy and is a favourite 
Italian dish, time five minutes ; seasonable from Septem- 
ber to April ; sufficient for four persons. 



38 The Canadian Economist. 

TO FRICASSEE OYSTERS. 

Fro'in a Cookery Book over 100 years old. 

Wash them thoroughly clean in their own liquor ; then 
strain the clean liquor on them ; put them on the fire, 
and give them a scald ; lift them out of the liquor, take 
some of the liquor and thicken it with a little butter and 
flour kneaded together. ■ When it comes to boil put in 
the fish and let them just get a boil or two. Have some 
yolks of eggs cast ; cast two, three, or more, according to 
the size of the dish you make ; take a little of the liquor 
out of the pan, and give them a toss or two, but don't let 
them boil ; then dish them. 

TO BROWN OYSTERS IN THEIR OWN JUICE. 

From a Cookery Book over 100 years old. 

Take the largest you can get, wash them clean through 
their own juice, lay them close together in a frying pan, 
but don't put one above another ; make them of a fine 
brown on both sides ; if one panful is not sufficient, do oft 
more ; when they are all done, pour in some of the juice 
into the [)an ; let it boil a little, and mix any of the thick- 
ness of the oysters that may remain in the pan, and pour 
it over them. Of all the ways of dressing them, this is 
the most delicious. 

UNSURPASSED FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Home Messenger. 

For one can of oysters use one pint of thick cream ; 
clean all the liquor from the oysters, and put them over 
steam until hot ; at the same tinie thicken the cream with 
flour, and season with salt, pepper, and a small pinch of 
mace, and the same of cinnamon and a very little butter ; 
cook this well, and when done thoroughly, add to it the 
liquor of the oysters which has been scalded and well 



Boiled Oysters. 39 

skimmed until clear ; then add the oystei-s, letting them 
remain just long enough to get plump (if left too long 
they grow tough) ; have ready some toast on a platter, 
and pour the whole over it, or have leaves and triangles 
of rich paste around the dish, and partially moistened by 
the fricassee. Your platter must be very hot, as fricasseed 
oysters chill very easily, 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Home Messenger. 

Make a nch puff paste, cut in small squares, place a 
layer of oysters, which have been dried on a napkin, on 
the paste ; dust a little salt, powdered mace, and cayenne 
pepper over them, covering with another piece of paste ; 
wet the edges of the paste with cold water, using a paste 
brush, and pinch lightly together ; bake in rather a quick 
oven. It should be a light colour. 

TO STEW OYSTERS. 

Put your oysters with all their liquor into a saucepan ; 
no water ; to every dozen add a lump of butter the size 
of a walnut, salt, pepper, a blade of mace, two bay leaves ; 
bubble for five minutes ; add a little cream ; shake all 
well together, and turn them out, grating a little nutmeg 
on each oyster as it lies in the sauce. 

RROILED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Twenty-five large oysters, two tablespoonsful of flour, 
four of milk, four of cracker-dust, two eggs, four table- 
spoonsful of bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter, the juice 
of half a lemon, salt and pepper to taste ; drain all the 
liquor from the oysters ; mix upon a ])late the flour, milk, 
pepper and salt; dip the oysters into this mixture one 



40 llie Canadian Ecoiio7)iisf. 

by one, and put the cracker dust upon a sheet of paper ; 
dip the oysters into the dust and roll them from side to 
side; return them to the plate and let them stand thirty 
minutes, so as the dust will harden with the juice; beat 
the eggs very light ; dip the oysters one by one into the 
bread-crumbs, and having lightly greased the broiler, put 
them in and broil for five minutes. 

OYSTER PIE. 

- CasselVs Household Guide. 

Cover a well-buttered deep plate or tin — a soup-plate 
answers perfectly — with puff paste ; lay an extra layer 
round the edge of the plate, and bake it very nearly 
enough. That done, fill the pie with oysters, seasoning 
w^ith nutmeg, pepper, salt, and butter ; dust in a little 
fiour amongst them and cover all with thin puff paste ; 
bake quickly ; when the top crust is done the oysters will 
be done also. If to be eaten hot serve as soon as baked, 
as the crust quickly absorbs the gravy. If to be eaten 
cold, let it cool, untouched, in the plate or pan. It is 
quite as good in this way as hot, and is excellent for pic- 
nics or travelling. 

OYSTER OMELET. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Twelve oysters, if large ; double the number of small 
ones, six eggs, one cup milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Chop the oystei-s very 
finely. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, 
as for nice cake — the white until it stands in a heap. Put 
three tablespoonsful of butter in a frying-pan, and heat 
while you are mixing the omelet. Stir the milk into a 
deep dish, with the yolk, and season. Next put in the 
chopped oysters, beating vigorously as you add them 
gradually. When they are thoroughly incorporated, pour 
in the spoonful of melted buttei'; finally whip in the 



Chicken and Oystm' Oroquettes. 41 

whites lightly, and with as few strokes as possible. If the 
butter is hot, and it ought to be, that the omelet may not 
stand uncooked, put the mixture into the pan. Do not 
stir it, but when it begins to stiffen^ — " to set," in culinary 
})hrase — slip a broad-bladed, round-pointed dinner knife 
around the sides, and cautiously under the omelet, that 
the butter may reach every part. As soon as the centre 
is fairly set, turn out into a hot dish. Lay the latter 
bottom upward ov^er the frying pan, which must be turned 
upside down dexterously. This brings the brown side of 
the omelet uppermost. This omelet is delici<Tus and ea,sily 
made. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

Home Messenger. 

Should be served at a party or small entertainment on 
a handsome block of ice that has been hollowed out on 
the top. Set the ice on a platter and garnish the edges 
with quarters of lemons. Be careful that in its melting 
the water does not overflow. For a second course at 
dinner and luncheons, lay three or four oysters on an 
individual oyster dish, garnished with lemon; lay a sprig 
of the yellow heart of celer\' across. Have pepper, salt 
and vinegar at hand. 

CHICKEN AND OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Home Messenger. 

Take equal quantities of chicken and oysters, chopped 
fine, with a cup of sifted bread-crumbs and a piece of 
butter ; .season with salt and pepper, and if liked a piece 
of mace ; moisten with one or two well-beaten eggs ; form 
into long, slender rolls and fry in lard to a light brown ; 
serve on a napkin, and garnish with celery -tops or pars- 
lev, and slices of lemon. 



CHAPTER IV. 
TO COOK CLAMS. 

M'lss Beecher. 

THIN-EDGED clams are the best ones. Roast them in 
a pan over a hot fire, or in a hot oven; placing them 
so as to save the juice. When they open, empty the juice 
into a sauce-pan, and add the clams with butter, pepper, 
and very little salt. To boil them, put them in a pot 
with a very little water and so as to save their juices. 
Proceed as above, and lay buttered toast in the dish when 
you take them up. Clams are good put into a batter 
and fried. 

TO DRESS BOILED CRABS. 

Warnes JEvery-day Cookery. 

Empty the large shell ; mix the flesh witli a very little 
oil, vinegar, salt, white-pepper and Cayenne to your taste; 
replace the meat in the large shell, and place it in the 
dish with the claws. 

DEVILLED CRAB. 

The Dinner Year Book. 

One cupful of crab meat picked from the shells of well 
boiled crabs, two tablespoonsful of fine bread-crumbs or 
rolled cracker, yolks of two hard-boiled eggs (chopped), 
juice of a lemon, half a teaspoonf ul of made mustard, a 
little Cayenne pepper and salt, one cupful of good drawn- 



A Fricassee of Lobsters. 43 

butter. Mix one spoonful of the crumbs with the chop- 
ped crab-meat, yolks, seasoning, and drawn-butter. Fill 
scallop shells — large clam shell will do, or small patty- 
pans — with the mixture. Sift cinimbs over the top, and 
heat to slight browning in a quick oven. 

TO CHOOSE CRABS. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

The heaviest crabs are usually considered the best, 
although those of a middle size are the sweetest, when, 
peifectly fresh and in perfection. The shell, whethei- 
dead or alive, should be of a bright red colour, and the 
joints of the legs stiff. Crabs are stale when the eyes 
look dull. They are boiled in the same manner as the 
lobstei-s, but require a much longer time, and are usually 
eaten cold. 

CRAB CURRY. 

Soyer. 

Prepare the onions and curry precisely as in the last, 
but adding the flesh of a crab (broken small) instead of a 
lobster ; let it stew over the fire about twenty minutes, 
add the juice of half a lemon and serve as before. 

A FRICASSEE OF LOBSTERS. 

Old Cookery Book. 

After boiling j'our lobsters, pick the meat out of the 
toes (claws) and tail, cut it into square or long pieces, not 
too small ; pick also the good meat out of the body. If 
it be a coral lobster, be sure you take all the red. Take 
as much good stock of any kind of meat as will cover 
them ; in which you may boil a blade of mace and some 
lemon peel ; thicken it with a piece of butter wrought in 
flour ; when it boils put in your lobsters ; cast the eggs 



44 The Canadian JBconomist 

and other materials in the same manner as in the sauce for 
the whitings ; do not have too much sauce, as it must be 
pretty thick. All fiicassee sauces are the better of a little 
thick sweet cream. Take some of the under ends of the 
small toes (claws) and sliced lemon for garnishing your 
dish. 

FRIED CLAMS. 

What I know. 

Beat up an egg and grate a cracker or two, sprinkle 
pepper on your clams, dip them one by one into the egg, 
then into the grated cracker. Fry in butter and lard in 
equal proportions. They take but a few minutes. 

TO MAKE CRAB PIES. 

After your partons (crabs) are boiled, pick the meat 
clean off the body and claws. Be sure that you leave 
none of the shell amongst the meat, season it with salt 
and spices ; put in some crumbs of bread, put in a good 
quantity of butter and a little water, then put them on 
the fire and let them be thoroughly boiled. Wash the 
shells of the body very clean and fill them up with the 
meat, as far as it will go ; fire them in an oven, or if you 
have not an oven at hand, put them on a gridiron over a 
clear fire ; then brown them before the fire. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Home Messenger. 

Twelve clams minced fine, one pint of milk, three eggs, 
add the liquor from the clams to the milk. Bjat up the 
eggs and put to this, with salt and pepper and flour 
enough for a thin batter, lastly add the chopped clams. 
Fry in hot lard, trying first to see if fat and batter are 
right. A tablespoonful makes a batter of moderate size. 
Fry quickly and serve hot. 



Dressed Crab. 45 



THE CRAB. 



The flesh of the crab is agreeable in flavour, firm and 
white in the claws, reddish white and softer in the body, 
nutritive and moderately digestible. It frequently, how- 
ever, disagreos with those who are subject to attacks of 
indigestion ; and the flesh of the great shell is considered 
most liable to produce such effects. Crabs are in the 
finest condition from March to October, and are prepared 
for the table by gradual and slow boiling in sea-water 
or water containing common salt. They are also used in 
the formation of soups, and from the quantity of gelatine 
and albumen they contain, are considered nutritious ; but 
these are rarely employed in this country. 

DRESSED CRAB. 

Works of art require time and patience, so does this ; 
but do not be disheartened, it is worth the trouble. 
Crack all the claws of the crab, keeping the flesh from 
the joints as entire as possible. Set it aside. Save the 
four black tips of the shells of the large claws, which 
children call " soldiers," for ornament. Take the breast 
or thorax from the great shell. After clearing away the 
apron, the gills or " dead men," etc., pick out all the white 
meat and place it on a plate. On another plate put the 
firm contents of the carapace (white, yellow and coral), 
dividing them into pieces the size of haz3l-nuts, and re- 
jecting all film-water, water, etc. In the middle of the 
dish, not too large, in which you serve your crab, lay the 
contents of the carapace or bottom over that, put the 
pickings of the breast, and above and around all arrange 
neatly the pieces from the claws, garnishing with the 
"soldiers" at four opposite points. Surround the pile 
with a moderate quantity of mixed salad — quartered 
lettuce hearts, blanched endive, water-cresses or other 
nice kinds that may be in season. Over the crab only, 
pour some approved salad mixture made nearly as thick 



46 The Canadian Economist. 

as mayonnaise sauce. When its turn comes send the dish 
round, for each person to help himself with a spoon. 

SCALLOPED CKAB. 

Pick out all the contents of the crab as before, only 
mix them all carefully together. To them add about one- 
third their quantity of grated bread-crumbs, a good lump 
of butter divided into little bits, not much peppei', less 
salt, a dust of grated nutmeg, and a dessertspoonful of 
vinegar or lemon-juice sprinkled over the mass. Mix all 
carefully together ; clean out the bottom shell of your 
crab and fill it with the mixture ; what is left you may 
pour into scallop-shells or tins. Set them into the oven of 
your cooking-stove, moderately hot. When hot through 
and slightly browned on the surface, they are fit to serve 
on a dish covered with a napkin, the crab-shell in the 
middle, and the scallop-shells around it, garnished with 
sprigs of parsle3^ Or after gently warming the crab- 
meat, &c., in a stew-pan, you may distribute it between 
the crab-shell and the scallops, and brown their surface 
under a salamander. 

LOBSTER CURRY. 

Soyer. 

Procure a large boiled lobster, break the shell and take 
out the flesh in as large pieces as possible, cutting the tail 
into about six pieces, and the claws of a proportionate 
size ; then cut two onions into small slices, which put 
into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, fry them 
of a light yellow^ colour, then mix in a good tablespoon- 
ful of mild curry paste, or half powder and half paste, 
and add a pint of good broth, then boil it up over the 
fire until becoming a little thickish, when put in the lob- 
ster, stir the whole round, then cover the stewpan closely 
and put it into a moderate oven half an hour, by which 



Lobster Curi'y. 47 

time the curry would be of a proper consistency, and the 
lobster very delicately tender, add the juice of half a 
lemon, and serve with rice separately. If no oven it may- 
be veiy gradually stewed over a slow fire. Moisten it 
occasionally. 




CHAPTER V. 

GENERAL REMARKS ON FISH. 
Mrs. Brough. 

FOR all kinds of fish for boiling, such as Haddock, Tur- 
bot, Salmon. — To every quart of water put two tea- 
spoonsful of salt, and if the fish be whole, as soon as it 
begins to boil remove the cover on one side, and let it sim- 
mer gently till quite done. If your fish weighs from three 
to fourpounds, it will take from twenty-five to thirty 
minutes doing on a moderate fire ; then slip it on your 
dish on a napkin^ and garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. Brough. 

The great art in frying is to have it free from grease, 
and in that state it is one of the most delicate descrip- 
tions of food that can be given to an invalid, and at the 
same time the most nourishing. The sudden immersion 
in the fat solidifies the albumen in the flesh of the fish, 
and renders it easy of digestion. The coating of bread- 
crumbs prevents the fat penetrating into the fish. 

TO BROIL FRESH SHAD AND OTHER FISH. 

Split, wash and dry in a cloth, lay the fish, the outside 
uppermost, over the coals, and broil a quarter of an hour 
or more. Butter it well, season with pepper and salt ; 
send it to the table hot. 

The quality of fish depends in a great measure on its 
being in or out of season ; certain kinds are said to be 



Turbot. 40 

almost poisonous when out of season, and produce the 
identical symptoms occasioned by poison. A very small 
quantity of salmon or skate, if eaten at improper times, 
is sufficient to create a violent purging or vomiting." 

TO FRY SALMON STEAKS. 

Mrs. Brough. 

Put into the fryingpan one ounce of butter, then for 
each steak have ready a piece of writing paper, rub on 
one side with butter, lay the steak on the buttered side, 
and bring the four comers of the paper all over the steak, 
then put in the fryingpan and cook with a moderate fire, 
the paper will become brown, but you will have all the 
fine tiavour of the fish preserved ; when cooked take off 
the paper and serve. 

FUESH MACKEREL (BOILED). 

Mrs. Berry, Toi'onto. 

Clean the mackerel and wipe cai-efully with a dry, clean 
cloth ; wash them lightly with another cloth dipped in 
vinegar ; wi-ap each in a coarse linen cloth (floured), basted 
closely to the shape of the fish ; put them into a pot with 
enough salted water to cover tl.em, and boil them gently 
for half an hour ; drain them well ; take a teacup of the 
water in which ihey were boiled and put into a saucepan 
with a tablespoonful of walnut catsup ; let this boil up 
well and add a lump of butter the size of an egg, with a 
tablespoonful of browned flour wet in cold water. 

TURBOT. 

Mrs. Brough. 

Make two incisions with the knife across the back, to 
prevent the white skin on the back from cracking, rub it 



50 The Canadian Economist. 

with a piece of lemon and salt previous to putting the 
water over ; let it lie about three inches under water. A 
turbot of seven or eight pounds weight will take an hour 
boiling. Serve with sauce. 

TO FRY FISH. 

The fat from salt pork is best ; have enough to cover 
the fish, and it should be hot when laid ; it should be 
rolled in flour or Indian meal before frying, and when 
brown take it up. Pour the gravy over the fish. 

BOILED SALMON TROUT. 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Clean, wash and dry the trout, put in a thin cloth fitted 
to the shape of the fish, put in a fishkettle, cover with 
cold salted water, and boil half an hour ; when done un- 
wrap and lay in a hot dish. 

HADDOCK (fried). 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Place on paper two tablespoonsful of flour ; beat on a 
plate one G^,g, add a little pepper and salt to some bread- 
crumbs ; dip pieces of the fish in flour, then in egg, and 
roll in bread-crumbs ; place in a pan well prepared and 
cook five minutes. 

haddock (baked). 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Two tablespoonsful of bread-crumbs, one of flour, one of 
chopped parsley, one of milk, one of butter, pepper and 
fialt ; place in a slightly floured bakingpan ; bake for 
three quarters of an hour. Should it get too dry rub a 
little butter on the back of the fish. 



Baked Black Bass. 51 

BOILED SALT MACKEREL. 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Soak one night in lukewartn water, and change this to 
cold water about half an hour before cooking ; put on 
with just enough water to cover them, and boil gently for 
twenty-five minutes ; di'ain carefully, and pour melted 
butter on them before serving. 

BROILED FRESH MACKEREL. 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Cleanse the fish, as for boiling split it open, so that when 
laid flat the back-bone will be in the middle ; dust lightly 
with salt and lay on a buttered gridiron over a clear fire, 
M'ith the inside downwards until it begins to brown ; then 
turn it over, when done lay on a hot dish, butter plenti- 
fully, lay another hot dish over it, and let it stand two or 
three minutes before sending it to table. 

TO COOK FINNAN HADDIES. 

Miss Belt Christie. 

Peel and lay in a spider ; cover with water. When 
this water boils, pour it off and add a second supply, but 
not as much as the first. Turn it over, add pepper and a 
piece of butter as large as an agg ; cook twenty minutes. 

BAKED BLACK BASS. 

Home Cook Book. 

Eight good sized onions, chopped fine ; half that quan- 
tity of bread cinimbs, butter size of hen's egg, plenty of 
pepper and salt, mix thoroughly with anchovy sauce un- 
til quite red. Stuff your fish with this compound and 
pour the rest over it with a little red pepper. Shad, 



52 The Canadian Economist. 

pickerel, and trout, are good the same way. Tomatoes 
can be used instead of anchovies. If using them, take 
pork in place of butter, and chop fine. 

FRIED MACKEREL. 

Home Cook Book. 

Cut off' the head ; split the fish quite open all along 
the belly and below it, lay it flat without removing the 
backbone ; dust with flour and salt and fry in butter. 

STEWED FISH. 

Miss Elliott, Guelpk. 

Take any nice fresh fish of moderate size, and when it is 
drawn and washed, cut it into three or four pieces, and put 
them into a stewpan, with amply sufficient hot water to 
keep them from burning; season them with a little salt 
and cayenne. After it has been skimmed steadily for 
half an hour, have ready a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter mixed into a smooth paste with a heaped table- 
spoonful of flour ; add this to the stew, with a bunch of 
sweet marjoram chopped fine, and a sprig of chopped 
parsley. If approved, add a small onion pared and sliced 
very thin. Cover it closely and let it stew another half- 
hour. Then send it to table. 

SPICED FISH. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

' Cold fish that has been left at dinner is very nice to 
put away for the supper table. It should be fresh 
salmon, fresh cod, halibut or the remains of any other 
fine large fish. Take out the back-bone, and cut the 
flesh into moderate sized pieces. Lay it in a deep dish, 
that has a cover. Season the fish with cayenne pepper, 



Stexved Codfish. 53 

a little salt, some grated nutmeg and some blades of 
mace, also some whole black pepper-corns, and pour over 
it plenty of good vinegar — tarragon vinegar will be an 
improvement. Cover it closely, and set it in a cold place 
till wanted. We do not recommend cloves or allspice. 
Nutmeg, mace and ginger will be found better. 

CREAil TJIOUT. 

Mis.^ Elliott, Guelph. 

Having prepared the trout very nicely, and cut off the 
heads and tails, put the fish into boiling water that has 
been slightly salted, and simmer for five minutes. Then 
take them out and lay them to drain. Put them into a 
stew pan and season them well with powdered mace, 
nutmeg, and a little cayenne — all mixed together. Put 
in as much rich cream as will cover the fish, adding the 
fresh yellow rind of a small lemon grated. Keep the pan 
covered and let the fish stew for about ten minutes after 
it has begun to simmer. Then dish the fish, and keep 
them hot till you have finished the sauce. Mix very 
smoothly a small tablespoonful of arrowroot, the juice of 
the lemon and two tablespoonsful of sugar, and stir it 
into the cream. Pour the sauce over the fish and send 
them to table. 

STEWED CODFISH. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Take fine fresh cod and cut into slices an inch thick, 
separate from the bones, lay the pieces of fish in the 
bottom of a stewpan ; season them with grated nutmeg, 
half a dozen blades of mace, a saltspoonful of cayenne 
pepper and a small saucerful of chopped celery or a 
bunch of sweet herbs tied together, add a pint of oyster 
liquor and the juice of a lemon. Cover it close and let it 
stew gently till the fish is almost done, shaking the paij 



54 The Canadian Economist. 

frequently. Then take a piece of fresh butter the size of 
an egg, roll it in flour and add it to the stew. Also put 
two dozen fine oysters, with what liquor there is about 
them. Cover it again, quicken the fire again a little and 
let the whole continue to stew five minutes longer. Be- 
fore you send it to table, remove the bunch of sweet 
herbs. 

STEWED HALIBUT. 

Out the fish into pieces about four inches square, of 
course omitting the bone. Season it very slightly with 
salt and let it rest for half an hour. Then take it out of 
the salt, put it in a large, deep dish and strew over it a 
mixture of cayenne pepper, ground ginger and gi-ated 
nutmeg ; lay among it some small pieces of fresh butter 
rolled in grated bread. Add half a pint of vinegar (tarra- 
gon vinegar if you have it). Place the dish in a slow 
oven, and let the halibut cook till thoroughly done, bast- 
ing it very frequently with the liquid. When nearl}- done 
add a large tablespoonful or more of capers or pickled 
nasturtiums. 

FRESH SALMON FRIED. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Cut the slices three-fourths of an inch thick. Dredge 
them with flour or dip them in eggs and crumbs. Fry a 
light brown. Halibut is prepared and fried as salmon. 
Gravy — Butter size of a large egg; put it in the pan, 
dredge with flour ; let it brown ; add cold water and a 
little anchovy sauce. Boil a few minutes. Seive with 
the salmon. 

FRESH SALMON BOILED. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

From the inside of a fresh salmon, weighing sixteen or 
eighteen pounds, take four pounds. Wash it carefully, 
flub the incision with salt ; tie it up in a cloth and boil 



How to Bake a Fish. o5 

it slowly forty minutes ; when half cooked, turn it over 
in the pot. Serve with egg-sauce or drawn butter and 
parsley. If any remains from dinner, pour one tea-cup of 
vinegar into two tablespoonsf ul of the liquor in which the 
fish was boiled. Heat it scalding hot and pour it over 
the salmon. This is a fine relish for breakfast. 

TO BROIL A WHITE FISH, 

Home Messenger. 

Lay the fish wide open upon a double gridiron, and 
broil it as you would a steak. 

DRIED CODFISH. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Georgetown. 

This should always be laid in soak, at least, one night 
before it is wanted ; then take off the skin, and put the 
fish in plenty of cold water, boil it gently for one hour, or 
tie it in a cloth and boil it. Serve with egg sauce. 

PICKLED FISH. 

Home Messenger. 

Skin the fish and pack in a dish, cover with olive oil 
or butter ; spice with vinegar, seasoned w^ith pepper, 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice and salt ; scald these, and pour 
over the fish ; cover closely, and bake till done. 

HOW TO BAKE A FISH. 

Mrs. (Dr.) Hill, Ottawa. 

The more usually received method of preparing either 
fresh water or ocean fish for the table by boiling or 
frying may be judiciously varied by baking. Of course 
this method of cooking is not adapted for the smaller 



5G The Canadian Economist 

varieties of this delightful and nutritious food, which is 
more commonly either boiled or fried. But when we 
have a fish of about three or four pounds weight, such as 
a black trout, pike, maskinong^, or possibly haddock, the 
plan of baking will be found a most agreeable change, 
and acceptable to the palate of the most recherche epicure. 
To prepare such a dish in perfection, your first care must 
be to select a fish entirely free from the most distant sus- 
picion of taint, and this caution will equally apply to all 
of the finny tribe destined for the table, for if the least 
sign of decomposition be present the " romance " is en- 
tirely destroyed ; therefore you cannot be too careful in 
this respect, and the well-practised " nose " of the cook or 
mistress of the house will, without difiiculty, make a 
judicious selection. To prepare the fish, remove very 
carefully the inside, and wash thoroughly with plenty of 
soft water (either rain or river); thoroughly dry with a 
nice soft cloth or hand towel ; then prepare a suflScient 
quantity of bread-crumbs, mixed with powdered sage and 
seasoned to the palate with pepper and salt, with which 
you are to fill the belly part of the fish as full as possible, 
which must then be carefully sewn up to keep the " stuff- 
ing" from falling out. Have your stove tire going j ust as 
you would have it prepared for baking an ordinary joint 
of meat. Place the fish in an iron pan and put it in the 
oven, floui-ing it, and basting it occasionally with good 
clean di-ipping. Turn it once or twice from one side to 
the other, until it appears nicely browned, when it will, in 
all probability be properly done. Usually from thirty- 
five to forty-five minutes will cook an ordinary sized fish 
of three pounds or so, varying of course with its size 
and weight at all times. When serving it on the table a 
very small quantity of powdered sugar may be judiciously 
thrown over it, and nicely prepared drawn butter with- 
out anchovy. Soy, or other fish sauce, appears to be the 
correct thing. Try this dish and you will not hesitate to 
adopt it among your favoured receipts, on the experience 
of an old Housekeeper. 



Curried Fish. 57 

BROILED SALMON. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Georgetown. 

Cut some slices an inch thick, and broil them over a 
brio-ht fire for ten or twelve minutes. When both sides 
are done, place them on a hot dish. Butter each slice 
well with sweet butter. Strew over each a little salt and 
pepper to taste and serve. 

TO BAKE FISH IN A TIN DISH. 

Scale and clean the fish ; dry it well ; put an ounce of 
butter or dripping in the dish, and sprinkle a little chop- 
ped parsley and onions at the bottom ; lay in the fish, 
season with pepper and salt, and lay over the rest of the 
chopped onions and parsley with some bread-crumbs and a 
little bit of butter or fat, and a little water or broth over 
all ; put the dish in the oven till done. 

TO FRY FISH. 

The art of frying fish, consists in having plenty of grease 
in the pan, and making it boil to the utmost before putting 
in the fish, which should have been laid to dry for some 
time in a cloth, and then rubbed with eggs and dipped in 
bread-crumbs ; the grease should be so hot that it browns 
the fish, not burns it, the fish should be turned over. A 
fish well fried is not an economical dish, because it requires 
a great deal of fat to fry it in. 

CURRIED FISH. 

Miss Rachel McDonald, Coi'nwall. 

Divide your fish into cutlets, skin, bone, flour, season 
with pepper and salt, and fiy them slowly in dripping. 
Have ready some rice steamed or boiled. Arrange it in 
heaps around the edge of the platter. Within it lay the 
fish cutlets, and into the centre of dish pour the cuny 
prepared in the usual way. 



58 The Canadian Economist. 

FISH. 

Soyer. 

Fish ought to be made an article of diet more often 
than it is, as the particles it contains tend to purify the 
blood from the grossness it receives in partaking of animal 
food ; and, when taken at the commencement of dinner, 
tends to assist the digestion of those substances which 
form the more substantial part of the meal, 

HERRINGS BOILED. 

Soyer. 

Boil six herrings about twenty minutes in plenty of 
salt and water, but only just to simmer ; then have ready 
the following sauce : — Put half a gill of cream upon the 
tire in a stew-pan ; when it boils add eight spoonsful of 
melted buttei-, one ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper 
and salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; dress the fish upon 
a dish without a napkin ; sauce over and serve. 

FILLETS OF MACKEREL. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

This fish is not considered easy of digestion, and the 
bitter taste it often has renders it disagreeable to many 
persons. There is reason to believe fresh mackerel to be 
both as wholesome and delicious as other fish, if properly 
treated by the cook, the fact being that the want of proper 
cleaning gives the mackerel the bad qualities assigned to 
it. Fish-mongers cannot clean mackerel properly without 
opening the fish and thus damaging its appearance, it must 
therefore be done by the cook. The brown substance 
adhering somewhat closely to the back-bone near the head, 
is the cause of the bitter flavour, and it must be carefully 
removed. Open the fish, take out the roe, and wipe away 



Baked Sturgeon. 59 

this brown substance with a cloth. Remove the back-bone, 
taking care not to break the fish with the scissors, trim 
away the fins, divide the fish down the middle, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, and flour ; place a piece of the roe, 
it must be soft roe fur an invalid, on each half, roll up 
tightly, and place in a small baking dish. If kept close 
together the fillets will retain their shape. Mix a dessert- 
spoonful of flour in a tablespoonful of cold water, and 
stir on to it half a pint of boiling water ; add in a tea- 
spoonful of Dinmore's essence of shrimp, and pour this 
sauce into the dish with the fish. Lay a piece of butter 
the size of a nut, on each fillet, put the dish into a moder- 
ate oven and bake for threequarters of an hour, or until 
done. Five minutes before serving, put a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsle}' to the fish. The sauce should be the 
thickness of nice butter sauce. If too thin before putting 
in the pareley, drain off" the sauce, boil it up, add a little 
flour, and return to the fish. Let it remain in the oven 
five minutes and serve. 

STURGEON STEAK. 

Common Sense in the Houseliold. 

Skim the steaks carefully and lay in cold salted water 
for one hour, to remove the oily taste, so ofl'ensive to 
most palates. Then wipe each steak dry, salt and broil 
over hot coals on a buttered gi'idiron. Serve in a hot dish 
when you have buttered and peppered them, and send up 
garnished with parsley, and accompanied by a small dish 
containing sliced lemon. 

BAKED STURGEON. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

A piece of sturgeon weighing five or six pounds is 
enough for a handsome dish. Skin it and let it stand in 
salt aiid water for h^lf s^a hour. Parboil it to remove the 



GO The Canadian Economist. 

oil ; make a dressing of bread-crumbs, minute bits of fat 
salt pork, sweet herbs and butter ; gash the upper part of 
the fish quite deeply, and rub this force meat well in, put 
in a baking pan with a little water to keep it from burn- 
ing, and bake for an hour. Serve with a sauce of drawn 
butter, in which has been stirred a spoonful of caper 
sauce and another of catsup. This is a Virginia receipt, 
and an admirable one. 

SALMON CUTLET. 

Little pinners. 

Have a slice an inch thick cut from the middle of a 
large fish. It will weigh about one pound and a half; 
wrap it up in oiled writing paper and fry in plenty of 
fat. It will take about ten minutes. Take it up, drain 
all fat away and serve in the paper. 

EXCELLENT WAY TO DRESS FINNAN HADDIES. 

The art of cooking finnan baddies is not generally 
understood. It is usually boiled, by which means a great 
portion of the fish is rendered uneatable, The proper way 
is to wash it well in hot water, wipe and place it in a pan 
and pour over milk and water to almost cover it. Bake 
it in an oven twenty minutes, basting occasionally ; when 
done put it on a hot dish, rub it over with a bit of butter, 
and you have a most delicious breakfast dish. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Put the fish into a baking-pan, pour over it boiling 
water and let it stand ten minutes ; at the end of ten mi- 
nutes pour off' the water and put about a cupful of fresh 
boiling water over the fish and a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, and put it in a hot oven. Baste very frequently 
aod cook twenty minutes. 



To Boil Fresh Fish. 61 

TO POT ANY SORT OF FISH. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Scrape and clean them well ; cut them in middling 
pieces; season them with salt and spices ; pack them close 
up in a potting-can with plenty of butter above and be- 
low : tie some folds of coarse paper on the pot ; then put 
them in a slow oven, and when they are enough tizzed 
take them out of the can and drain them well from their 
liquor ; let both cool ; put the fish into small white pots ; 
skim all the butter ofi* the liquor. Then take some more 
butter along with that ybq lake from the liquor, melt it 
down and pour it on the fish. 

Send them in the pots to table. 

TO FRY FRESH FISH, 

What I knoiv. 

Have the fish well scalded, washed and drained, cut 
slits in the side of each ; season them with salt and pep- 
per, and roll them in corn flour ; have in your frying-pan 
hot lard and bacon drippings; dip them in egg before 
rolling them in corn flour to keep them from breaking. 

TO BOIL FRESH FISH. 

What I know. 

After being well cleaned rub the fish with salt, and pin 
it in a towel, put it in a pot of boiling water and keep it 
boiling fast ; a large fish will take from half to three quar- 
tei*s of an hour — a small one from fifteen to twenty mi- 
nutes. A fat shad is very nice boiled, although rock and 
bass are preferred generally ; when done take it upon a 
fish dish and cover with egor-sauce or drawn butter and 
parsley. Pickled mushrooms and walnuts and mushroom 
catsup, are good with boiled fish. 



62 llie Canadian Econotnist. 

PICKLED FISH. 

Skin the fish and pack in a deep dish, cover with olive 
oil or butter ; spice with vinegar seasoned with pepper, 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice and salt, cover these closely and 
^ ake until done. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Home Messenger. 

Quarter pound of pork cut in pieces ; put in the bottom 
of the pot and fry out ; put slices of potatoes on this, then 
layer of fish, cut up two onions, sliced, and layer of soda 
crackers ; repeat these layers ; then pour boiling water 
over till well covered Stew twenty -five minutes. 

FROGS. 

Home Messenger. 

Scald them in salted boiling water, rub them with 
lemon juice, and boil for three minutes; wipe them; dip 
them first in cracker dust, then in eggs (half a cupful 
of milk mixed in two eggs, and seasoned with pepper and 
salt), then again in cracker crumbs. When they are well 
covered with crumbs, clean off the bone at the end with 
a dry cloth. Put a tablespoonful of lard and a table- 
spoonful of butter in a spider, over a bright fire, and when 
hot enough put in the frogs and fry. 

THE EDIBLE FROG. 

Davidson on Diet. 

The edible, or green, frog is abundant in the different 
countries of Europe, though less so in Britain than the 
common frog. It is greenish above, wath three longitu- 
dinal How lines ; below, whitish with black spots ; back 
archeu protuberated ; fore feet with four divided toes; 
hind feex/ ith five webbed toes. It spawns about the 



Tlie Edible Frog. ' 63 

month of June, and the young attain their full growth in 
about four years, and live to the age of sixteen or seven- 
teen. It is very tenacious of life, aand survives for a 
considerable time in a mutilated state. It is also very 
voracious, and feeds on worms, snails, and even biras, 
mice, «S:c., which are swallowed in the entire state. Use*'; 
The flesh of the frog is light, digestible, moderately nu- 
tritious, and its flavour is said to resemble that of the 
chicken. The hind-quarters are most esteemed, and the 
form of dressing generally recommended is the fricassee. 
The other parts of the frog are employed in the formation 
of a soup which is highly commended by some uuthore 
for consumptive persons. Frogs are consumed in immense 
quantities at Vienna and some of the other larger cities 
of Europe. 

They are brought from the country and placed in con- 
servatories or large holes in the gi-ound, four or five feet 
deep. 




CHAPTER VL 
SAUCES. 

GLENGARRY SAUCE. 

Mrs. Alexander, New Edinburgh. 

TO two pecks of peeled tomatoes, add one quart of vine- 
gar, one quarter pound of salt, one quarter pound of 
black pepper, one half-ounce of cayenne pepper, one 
quarter pound of allspice, one ounce cloves, six onions 
and three pounds of brown sugar. Boil the tomatoes till 
they can be passed through a sieve, then add the above, 
and boil for one hour. 

CHUTNA SAUCE. 

Mrs. Brown, Ottawa. 

One pound of stoned raisins, one pound of brown sugar, 
one half-pound of salt, one half-pound of ginger, one half- 
pound of onions, one quarter-pound of mustard seed, two 
ounces of chillies, one half-pound of garlic, three quarter- 
pound green gooseberries (tart apples or green grapes, may 
be used in place of gooseberries), these ingredients to be 
well and separately chopped fine, then mix altogether with 
three bottles of vinegar. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Grate a quantity of horse-radish. Boil it in suf^- 
cient water to give it the consistency of sauce, add a pinch 



White Saiwe. 65 

of salt and two or three tablespoonsful of Tarragon vine- 
gar, then stir in, off the fire, a gill of cream beaten up 
with the yolk of an egg. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRY SAUCE FOR BOILED MACKEREL. 

Wame's Domestic Cookery. 

Half a pint of green gooseberries ; two tablespoons- 
ful of green sorrel ; a small piece of butter, ten ounces of 
sugar, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Wash some green 
sorrel, and press out the juice through a cloth; boil half 
a pint of green gooseberries, drain them from the water, 
and rub them through a sieve. Put the sorrel juice into 
a stewpan, allowing about a wineglassful of it to the pulp 
of the gooseberries, add a small piece of butter, a lump of 
sugar, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Make the sauce very 
hot, and serve it up in a tureen. 

CHILLI SAUCE. 

Mrs. Crannels, Ottawa 

Eight large onions sliced fine, or rather chopped fine, 
eight red peppers also chopped, one peck of tomatoes pre- 
pared as for table, eight tablespoonsful of salt, one and a 
half tablespoonsful of cinnamon, two nutmegs, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger, sixteen cupsful of vinegar, sixteen 
tablespoonsful of sugar. Boil all together. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Mrs. Brough 

Rub, into a convenient-sized stewpan, four ounces of 
butter, eight ounces of flour. Keep stirring well, take 
the pan from the fire, and stir till nearly cool, then pour 
in sufficient white-stock, until it is of a nice consistency. 
Put on the fire and boil for a quarter of an hour. Keep 
stirring continually. Pass it through a sieve to keep for 



66 The Canadian Economist. 

use. This sauce is the foundation of all white sauces. 
Instead of using butter, use sometimes the yolk of an egg 
and mix with milk or cream, instead of water, a blade 
of mace is an improvement when boiling, and stir. 

BROWNING FOR SAUCES. 

Put one half-pound of sugar into an iron saucepan, 
and melt it over a moderate fire for about twenty-five 
minutes, stirring continually until it is quite black, but 
it must become so by degrees, as too sudden a heat will 
make it bitter, then add three pints of water, and in ten 
minutes the sugar will be dissolved. Bottle for use. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

Peel and grate some green cucumbers. Let the pulp 
remain on a colander, until the juice drains off, and take 
the seeds out. Half fill the bottles with this pulp. Fill 
up with vinegar and keep well corked. 

LEMON PUDDING SAUCE. 

To the juice of one large lemon, add one pint of water, 
boil and thicken with corn starch, say one spoonful, 
sweeten to taste, and add a little lemon essence if desired. 

GREEN MAYONNAISE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

This is a fine accompaniment to cold poultry, which 
must be cut into small pieces, as for chicken salad, using 
only the white meat. To begin the Mayonnaise : Put 
into a shallow pan the yolks of three fresh eggs, having 
strained out the specks. Having beaten them till light 
and thick, add, by degrees, a half-pint of salad oil, stirring 
it gradually, so that no oil whatever is to be seen on the 



Cauliflower Sauce. 67 

surface. Then add two tablespoonsful of Tarragon vine- 
gar, next, a few drops of shalot vinegar, or a very small 
onion minced as finely as possible. If you have at hand 
any clear meat gravy, for instance, veal, stir in two or 
three tablespoonsful. Add the gi-ated yellow rind and 
the juice of a lemon. Pound as much spinach as will 
yield a small teaspoonful of green juice. Give it a short 
boil up to take off" the rawness, and mix it with the 
mayonnaise. When cold, pour it over the dish of cold 
poultry. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

This is only used for roast lamb in the spring. Take a 
large bunch of fine fresh green mint, that has been wash- 
ed well. Strip the leaves from the stems, and mince them 
small. Put it into a pint bowl, and mix with it gradu- 
ally some of the best vinegar. This sauce must not be 
the least liquid, but as thick as horse-radish sauce, or 
thicker. Make it verv thick with the best brown suofar. 
Mix it well, and transfer to a small tureen or sauceboat ; 
a quart or more of mint sauce made as above, but with a 
larger proportion of sugar and vinegar, will keep veiy 
well for several weeks in a jar well corked. 

CAULIFLOWER SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Have ready some very nice melted butter, made with 
milk, and flavoured with nutmeg. Thicken it with ready- 
boiled cauliflower cut into little sprigs or blossoms. Give 
it one boil up after the cauliflower is in, and send it to 
table with ar.y sort of boiled poultr}^ It will be found 
very nice. For a boiled turkey, it is far superior to celery 
sauce. 



68 The Canadian Economist. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Strip from the stalks the leaves of some fresh green 
parsley ; allow plenty of it ; chop it slightly, and while 
the drawn butter is hot, stir it into the parsley, till the 
butter looks very green. Serve it up with boiled fowl, 
rabbits, or fish. The appearance of parsley sauce will be 
much improved by stirring in some spinach juice. The 
whole will then be a fine sfreen. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 
Boil four eo:ors from eiofht to twelve minutes. Then 



oo 



lay them in a pan of fresh water, and let them remain till 
quite cold. Peel off the shells and take out the eggs. 
Chop the yolks and whites separately ; mix them lightly 
into one-half pound of melted fresh butter, made in the 
proportion of a quarter pound of butter to two large table- 
spoonsful of flour, and four of milk and hot water, add 
some powdered mace, or nutmeg. Egg sauce is eaten with 
boiled fish and poultry, instead of milk or water, you can 
use for the melted butter, some of the water in which 
chicken or turkey was boiled, or some veal gravy. 

FRIED PARSLEY. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Pick the small sprigs of parsley from the large stalks. 
Wash it, and then throw it into clear cold water. After 
the meat or fish that it is to accompany has been fried and 
taken out of the pan, give the fat that remains a boil up, 
and lay the parsley into it. It will crimp and still con- 
tinue green, if not kept frying too long. Take it out, 
drain it, and place it before the tire a few minutes to drain 
it from the fat. Dish it, laid down on the top of the fish 
or steaks. 



Kasturtixira Sauce. 69 

FENNEL SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

The fennel should be young and fresh. Take a large 
handful or more, and having washed it clean, strip the 
leaves from the stems, and boil it till quite tender. Put 
it into a sieve, and press the water well from it. Mince 
it very small, and stir it into melted butter. It is served 
up with veal and boiled mackerel. Instead of melted 
butter, you may put the fennel into gravy, thickened with 
butter and dredged in flour. 

FINE ONION SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Peel some nice mild onions and boil them in plenty of 
milk, sprinkling them well. When done, take them out 
of the milk (saving it) and slice them very thin, cutting 
the slices across, so as to make the pieces of onion very 
small, return them to the saucepan of milk (adding some 
fresh butter dredged with flour) season them with pow- 
dered mace or nutmeg, and give the onions another boil, 
till they are soft enough to mash and to thicken the milk 
all through. Eat this sauce with steaks, cutlets, rabbits, 
or chickens. 

PLAIN ONION SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Peel some very small onions, and boil them whole in 
milk, seasoned slightly with pepper and salt, and put in 
some bits of butter rolled in flour. Let them boil till ten- 
der aU through, but not till they lose their shape. Eat 
them with any sort of boiled meat. 

NASTURTIUM SAUCE. 

This is eaten with boiled mutton, and is superior to 
caper sauce. Gather the green seeds when they are full 



70 The Canadian Economist. 

grown, and throw them into a jar of vinegar w^ithout the 
stems. They require no cooking, but keep a muslin bag 
of spice in the jar (mace and nutmeg broken small and 
a little piece of hot ginger). To use them for sauce, make 
some nice melted butter, and as it simmers, throw in plenty 
of nasturtiums from the jar. The seeds when gathered 
should be full grown, but by no means hard, and the colour 
a fine green. If there is the slightest brown tinge, the 
nasturtium seeds are too old, and should be kept for 
planting. 

TO BROWN FLOUR, 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Spread some flour on a plate, set it in the oven, turn- 
ing it up and down and stirring it frequently' that it may 
brown equally all through. Put it in a jar and keep it 
covered well ; it is useful to stir into gravies to thicken 
and colour them. 

BROWN BUTTER. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan and toss it 
round on the fire till it becomes brown. Then dredge 
some brown flour on it and stir it round with a spoon till 
it boils ; it must be made quite smooth. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

What I Icnoiv. 

Put half -pint of water in a skillet, rub quarter-pound of 
butter in a large spoonful of flour ; when the water boils 
stir it in and let it l>oil a few minutes ; season it with par- 
sley chopped fine, minced onions (one teaspoonful), parsley 
and thyme. Add all these to drawn butter. It is very 
nice for boiled chickens, fish, or leg of mutton. 



Cranberry Sauce. 71 

CAPER SAUCE. 

What I hnoiv. 

Put some capers in your butter-boat, and pour drawn 
butter over them. Nasturtiums make almost as good a 
sauce as capers, and are prepared in the same way. A few 
of them pickled are put in a boat — a butter-boat — and 
drawn butter poured over them. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

What I know. 

Oyster sauce is made in the same way as drawn-butter, 
only putting the flour and butter into the oyster juice 
instead of water. Either cut the oysters in two or not ; 
season with mace, salt and pepper. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Pick the cranberries clean, seeing that no stems, sticks, 
or dead leaves are left among them ; put them into a 
colander, or sieve, and wash them through two waters ; 
cook them in an enamelled stew-pan, with or without ad- 
ditional water. The water that remains about them after 
washing is quite sutHcient for stewing them properly. No 
stewed fruit should be too thin or liquid. Keep a steady 
heat under the cranberries, stirring them up from the bot- 
tom frequently ; and, when they are soft, mash them with 
the back of a spoon. When tlrey are quite shapeless, take 
them otf the fire, and while they are very hot stir in o-ra . 
dually an ample quantity of nice brown sugar. They re- 
(juire much sweetening ; season them with nothing else. 
Their natural flavour is sufficient (if well sweetened), and 
cannot be improved by spice, lemon, or any of the usual 
condiments. 



72 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

SAGE AND ONION SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Gaelph. 

Take a bunch of fresh sage leaves ; wash and drain 
them ; pick them from the stems, and put them to boil in 
a small saucepan, with just water enough to cover them ; 
boil them fast about ten minutes ; take them out and 
press them in a sieve, to drain them dry ; then mince or 
chop them small. Have ready two onions, boiled tender, 
in another saucepan ; chop them fine, and mix them well 
with the minced sage. While warm, mix in a small bit 
of nice butter, season with pepper. Put this sauce into a 
little tureen, and serve up with roast goose, roast duck or 
roast pork, that has been stuffed with potato, bread, or 
other stuffing. The sage and onion sauce is for those who 
prefer their flavour to any other seasoning for those 
dishes. This sauce will be greatly improved if moistened 
with the gi'avy of the duck or goose. 

WHITE THICKENING. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Cut up quarter of a pound of the best fresh butter, and 
put it into a well tinned or enamelled saucepan; set it 
over a moderate fire, and melt it slowly, shaking it round 
frequently, and taking care to skim it well ; when no 
more scum appears on the surface, let it settle a few min- 
utes, then pour it off from the sediment at the bottom. 
Wash the saucepan, or get another clean one; return the 
melted butter to it, and set it again over the fire ; then 
dredge in gradually sufficient sifted flour to make it very 
thick and smooth, stirring it well after each addition of 
flour. Do not allow it to brown in the slightest degree, 
but keep it perfectly white to the last, simmering, but not 
actually boiling, and taking care that there is no smoke 
about the fire. To thicken white sauces or soups, stir in 
a tablespoonful or two of this mixture. 



Horse-Radish Sauce. 73 

BROWNING. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

This is to enrich the taste and improve the colour of 
gravies, stews and soups. Mix a quarter of a pound of 
powdered white sugar with two ounces of fine fresh but- 
ter ; and, having stirred them well together, put them in- 
to a saucepan over the fire, and simmer until it begins to 
froth ; then diminish the heat a little. When its colour 
becomes a fine dark brown, add a little broth and some 
blades of mace powdered. When it comes to a boil, take 
it off, and stir it into whatever you intend to colour. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph^ 

Split and cut up into short slips a bunch of celery, hav- 
ing taken off the green leaves from the tops. The celery 
must have been well washed, and laid an hour in cold 
water. Take a pint of milk, and cut up into it a quarter of 
a pound of fresh butter that has been well dredged with 
flour ; set it over the fire in a saucepan, and add the 
celery gradually, also three or four blades of mace, broken 
up. Boil all slowly together, till the celery is quite soft 
and tender, but not dissolved. The green tops of the 
celery, strewn in when it begins to simmer, will improve 
the flavour. Celery sauce is served up with boiled tur- 
key, boiled fowls, and with any sort of fresh tish, boiled 
or fried. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Miss Hopkirk, Ottaiva. - 

One teaspoonful of made mustard, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, three tablespoonsful of thick cream, add grated 
horse-radish till it is as thick as onion sauce. 



74 The Canadian Economist. 

CARRIER SAUCE. 

Booh of the Household. 

Scrape a small stick of horse-radish, cut an onion or 
two in thin slices, put these into a sauce tureen, with a 
little vinegar and whole pepper, and set the tureen in a 
dripping-pan under a roast of mutton. Serve the sauce 
quite hot with the meat. 

POOR man's sauce. 

Booh of the Household. 

Pick a handful of parsley leaves from the stalks, and 
mince them fine ; strew over these a little salt, shred fine 
six young green onions, add the parsley to them, and put 
the whole into a sauce-boat, with three tablespoonsful of 
oil, five of vinegar, some ground black pepper, and salt, 
stir all these together, and send it up to table. You may 
add to it, pickled French beans, or gherkins cut fine, or a 
little o;rated horse-radish. 

SAUCE ROBERT. 

Booh of the Household. 

Cut a few onions into dice, which put into a frying-pan 
with a bit of butter, and fry them lightly. When nicely 
browned, add a dessertspoonful of flour, a ladleful of 
stock, the same of vinegar, some salt and pepper ; reduce 
it to a proper thickness, and when ready for table stir in 
two dessertspoonsful of mustard. 

CHILLI SAUCE. 

Miss Junor, St. Mary's. 

Eighteen large ripe tomatoes, six onions, three red pep- 
pers, three tablespoonsful of salt, five cupsful of vinegar ; 
chop fine, cook one hour, one cup of sugar. 



Lemon Sauce for Boiled Fowls. 75 

"WORCESTER SAUCE. 

Mrs. Kurtis, Bradford, Pa. 

Chop fine twenty-four ripe tomatoes peeled, four green 
peppei-s, one large onion, one quart of vinegar, half a cup- 
ful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of salt, one ounce of gin- 
ger, one of allspice, one of cloves, one nutmeg ; mix well, 
simmer for two or three hours until quite thick. 

FRESH TOMATO SAUCE. 

This may be served with roast meat or poultry, chops, 
cutlets, or used for mingling with hashes and stews. 
Take a dozen of tomatoes ; skin them and take out the 
seeds ; put the pulp in a saucepan with a piece of butter, 
the size of an egg of laurel leaf, and a little thyme. Stew 
it over a moderate fire, stirring it the while. Add a little 
stock or brown sauce. When the mixture has boiled a 
short time, pass it through a sieve and flavour it with salt 
and cayenne. 

ANOTHER TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cut ten or a dozen tomatoes into quarters, and put 
them into a saucepan with four onions shelled, a little 
parsley, a little thyme, one clove, and a quarter-pound of 
butter. Set the saucepan on the fire, stirring the con- 
tents for about three-quarters of an hour. Strain the 
sauce through a horse hair sieve and serve. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWLS. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Take a lemon and pare off the rind, then cut it into 
slices, take the kernels out and cut it into small, square 
bits ; blanch the liver of the fow^l, and chop it fine ; mix 
the lemon and liver together in a boat ; pour on some 
hot melted butter, and stir it up. 



76 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

TO CRISP PARSLEY. 

When you have picked and washed your parsley 
quite clean, put it into a dutch oven, or on a sheet of 
paper. Set it at a moderate distance from the fire, and 
keep turning it till it is quite crisp. Lay little bits of 
butter on it, but not to make it greasy. This is a better 
method than that of frying. 

PRINCE Alfred's sauce. 

Little Dinners. 

Vinegar, one and a half pints ; water, one half pint ; 
India Soy, one half pint ; walnut catsup, one half pint ; 
chillies, one ounce ; shalots, two ounces ; burnt sugar or 
colouring, one ounce. Bruise the shalots, and boil the 
whole for ten minutes ; let it stand until cold, strain and 
bottle it. This is an excellent sauce for cold meat, fish, 
or steaks, and can be used whenever piquant sauce is 
required. 

butter sauce. 

Little Dinners. 

One ounce of flour mixed smooth in four tablespoons- 
ful of cold water. Stir it into half a pint of fast boiling 
water ; add a pinch of salt, let it boil up ; then stir in one 
and a half ounces of butter. 

ORANGE SAUCE FOR GAME. 

Soyer. 

Peel half an orange, removing all the pith ; cut it into 
slices, and then in fillets ; put them in a gill of water to 
boil for two minutes ; drain them on a sieve, throwing the 
water away; place in the stew-pan two tablespoonsful 
of broth, and, when boiling, add the orange, a little sugar, 
simmer ten minutes, skim and serve. The juice of half an 



A Very Good and Useful White Sawie. 77 

orange is an improvement. This is served with duckling 
and waterfowl. 

GARLIC SAUCE. 

Soyer. 

Though many dislike the flavour of this root, yet those 
that like it ought not to be deprived of it. Put in a 
stew-pan ten tables poonsful of broth, a little tomatoes, if 
handy. Boil it a few minutes ; scrape half a clove of 
garlic, put it in with a little sugar and serve. 

MINT SAUCE FOB LAMB. 

Soyer. 

Take three tablespoonsful of chopped leaves of green 
mint, three of brown sugar, and put into a basin with half 
a pint of brown vinegar, stir it up, add one saltspoonful 
of salt and serve. 

A VERY GOOD AND USEFUL WHITE SAUCE. 

Soyer. 

Put a quart of white sauce in a stew-pan of a proper 
size on a lire, stir continually until reduced to one-third ; 
put two yolks of eggs in a basin, stir them well up ; add 
your sauce gradually, keep stirring, put back in stew- 
pan, set it to boil for a few minutes longer, then add one 
pint of boiling milk, which will bring it to its proper 
thickness — that is when it adheres transparently to the 
back of a spoon. Pass through a tammy into a basin, 
stir now and then till cold. If not immediately required, 
and I have any stock left, I use half of it with half of 
milk. I also try this way, which is very convenient. 
When the yolks are in and well boiled, I put in a large 
gallipot, and when cold cover with pieces of paper, and it 
will keep good in winter for two or three weeks, and 
above a week in summer, and when I want to use a little 



78 The Canadian Economist. 

of it I only take a spoonful or two and warm it on the 
fire, and add enough milk or white broth to bring it to a 
proper thickness and use. 

governor's sauce. 

Mrs. RowloAids, Kingston. 

Slice one peck of green tomatoes, six green peppers, six 
large onions, strew half a cup of salt through them, and 
let it stand over night ; then strain off the pulp, and put 
it in a kettle with vinegar enough to cover it, add a cup 
of grated horse-radish, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of cloves, one of allspice, and one of cinnamon ; sim- 
mer till soft. 

CHILLI SAUCE. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa. 

Two red peppers and two onions chopped fine, twelve 
ripe tomatoes, skins taken off, one tablespoonful of salt, 
one of sugar, one teaspoon of allspice, cloves, ginger and 
nutmegs,two cups of vinegar. When the tomatoes, peppers 
and onions are thoroughly cooked, add the spices and 
vinegar, 

CREAM SAUCE. 

French Cookery. 

Put into a saucepan four ounces of butter, a spoonful of 
flour, a good pinch of chopped parsley, and one of chives, 
salt, pepper and grated nutmegs, and a glass of cream or 
milk ; set it on the fire, and keep stirring it; let it boil a 
quarter of an hour. This sauce may be served with pota- 
toes, turbot, cod and salt fish. 

MELTED BUTTER. 

French Cookeinj. 

Put some butter into a saucepan, and let it melt by a 
slow fire ; when it has settled at the bottom of the sauce- 



Pepper Vinegar and Tarragon Vinegar. 79 

pan, and is ver}" thin, strain it; mix it with a good deal 
of fine salt, and serve it in a sauce-boat. In Belgium and 
some other countries, this sauce is frequently used with 
all kinds of fish. 

COLD SAUCE FOR FISH, 

French Cookery. 

Wash and chop very fine some parsley, chervil, tarra- 
gon and chives, also the yokes of two hard boiled eggs ; 
pass them all through a sieve, add by degrees four spoons- 
ful of oil or cream, two of vinegar, and two of mustard. 

GARLIC WATER. 

French Cookery. 

Pick a clove of garlic ; mince and crush it ; then put it 
into a little water to give it the flavour ; strain it through 
a sieve, and make use of it for sauces. Or vinegar may 
be thus flavoured. 

PEPPER VINEGAR. 

Home Messenger. 

Fill a quart bottle or jar with small peppers, either 
green or ripe. Put two tablespoonsful of sugar and fill 
with vinegar. Invaluable in seasoning sauces, and good 
to eat with fish or meat. 

PEPPER VINEGAR AND TARRAGON VINEGAR. 

Home Messenger. 

Fill a quart bottle with small peppei*s either green or 
ripe ; put in two tablespoonsful of sugar; and till with 
good vinegar. Tan-agon vinegar can be made after the 
above recipe, only substituting three ounces of tarragon 
leaves (to be bought of fii-st-class druggists) for the pep- 
pers. 



80 The Canadian Economist. 

MINT VINEGAR. 

Home Messenger. 

Take a glass jar and put loosely into it enough nice 
clean mint leaves to fill it ; then pour over enough good 
vinegar to fill the bottle full. Cork tight and let it stand 
for three weeks. Then pour off into another bottle and 
keep to flavour mint sauce, tSrc. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Home Messenger. 

Mix — butter the size of an Qgg, the juice of half a lemon, 
and two or three sprigs of parsley, chopped very fine ; 
pepper and salt, all together. Spread this over any bi-oiled 
meat or fish when hot ; then put the dish into the oven 
a few minutes to allow the butter to penetrate the meat. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Home Messenger. 

One teacupful of grated horse-radish, a tablespoonful 
of ground mustard, one tablespoonful of sugar, four of 
vinegar, and one of olive oil, pepper and salt. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Home Messenger. 

Cut up three hard-boiled eggs in small dice, salt, pep- 
per, minced onions, one teaspoonful parsley and thyme, 
add all these to drawn butter. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Home Messenger. 

Boil an onion in a pot of milk for five minutes, take it 
out and pour the milk over a quarter of a pound of finely 
sifted bread crumbs, add Cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 



Sauces. 81 

Stir over the fire until it boils and is'quite thick. A small 
piece of butter, or a little cream may be added. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Honie Messenger. 

Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream and mix 
with it a quarter of a pint of cream, half a stick of hoi-se- 
radish grated finely, pepper, salt and distilled white vine- 
gar to taste. The sauce should be as thick as good cream, 
it should be kept cooL Serve in a sauce tureen. 

SAUCES. 

CasseWs Dictionary of Cookery. 

The skill and knowledge of a cook is shown in nothing 
more assuredly than in the way in which she manufac- 
tures and chooses sauces. M. Soyer used to say that 
sauces are to cookery what gi-ammar is to language, and 
the gamut is to music : and another great authority sa^s, 
" that a good sauce ought to call into activity each rami- 
fication of the palatic organs." However this may be, 
sauce ought certainly to serve either as a relish or a finish 
to the meat which it accompanies. It ought, too, to be 
carefully made and attractively sent to table. With re- 
gard to sauces in genei-al, it should be remembered that 
hot sauces should be served very hot, that when sauces 
need to be kept hot ; they should not be kept boiling but 
should be put into a bain-marie, or failing this, the sauce- 
pan should lie put in a vessel containing boiling water ; 
that eggs and acids should not be added to sauce until it 
has cooled for two minutes, and after they have been 
added the sauce should be stirred without ceasing and 
should not be allowed to boil ; that cream should be 
boiled before it is mixed with boiling sauce, and that the 
sauce should be stirred well after it is put in. An enam- 
melled saucepan is the best in which to make sauce. 

6 



82 The Canadian Economist 

ROUX, 

Ca^selVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

E,oux is simply a mixture of flour and butter, which 
when baked is used for thickening soups and gravies. It 
is frequently spoken of as a brown or white thickening, 
it should be kept in a covered jar, and will remain good 
for months. A teaspoonful is generally sufficient to 
thicken a pint of gravy. 

BROWN ROUX. 

CasseU's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Dissolve half a pound of fresh butter, skim it well, let it 
stand for a minute and pour it away from the impurities 
which will settle to the bottom. Put the clear oily part 
into a saucepan over a slow fire and shake into it about 
seven or eight ounces of fine flour, or as much as will 
make a thick paste. Stir constantly and heat the prepa- 
ration slowly and equally until it is very thick and of a 
bright brown colour. Put it into a jar and stir a spoonful 
into soup or gravy as it is needed. A teaspoonful will 
thicken half a i)int of gravy. Roux may be mixed with 
hot or cold stock. If cold stir it over the fire till it boils ; 
if hot, moisten the roux gradually with the stock, and ofl" 
the tire to keep it from lumping. 

PIQUANT SAUCE. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Mince very finely a tablespoonful of capers, a table- 
spoonful of shalots, a table spoonful of gherkins. Put them 
into a saucepan with a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper 
and three tablespoon sful of vinegar, and let them simmer 
gently for three minutes. Add half a pint of broth or 
stock, a quarter of a teaspoonful Liebig's extract of meat, 
a teaspoonful of the essence of anchovy, and a dessert 



Fennel Sauce. 83 

spoonful of brown thickening. Boil the sauce until it is 
thick and smooth, skim carefully and it is ready for use. 
If brown thickening is not at hand mix half an ounce of 
butter with half an ounce of flour and stir these ingredi- 
ents quickly together over a moderate fire until the mix- 
ture is brightly coloured ; moisten with the stock and 
pour over it the gherkins, kc. Time — one quarter of an 
hour. Sufficient for nearly a pot of sauce. 

FENNEL SAUCE. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Make some good melted butter, in the propoi'tion of a 
quarter of a pound of butter, a dessei'tspoonful of flour, 
and a wineglassful of water. Blend the butter and 
flour together, reserving one ounce of the butter to stir in 
after it has been thickened and removed from the fire. 
Chop enough of fennel to fill a tablespoon, and put it with 
the butter when it is on the point of boiling. Do not let 
it boil, but simmer for a minute or two, then remove and 
stir in the remaining butter. Serve in a tureen. Sufficient 
for five or six mackerel. 




CHAPTER VII. 
ROAST BEEF AND YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

SET a piece of beef to roast upon a grating. Three 
quarters of an hour before it is done, mix the pud- 
ding and pour into the pan. Continue to roast the beef, 
the dripping meanwhile falUnir upon the pudding below, 
and when both are done, cut in squares and lay around 
the meat when dished. Receipt for pudding, one pint of 
milk, four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two 
cupsful of flour, one teaspoonful of salt. 

BEEF-A-LA-MODE. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottawa. 

Take a piece of the thick part of the rump of beef, 
about four pounds, not too fat, take half a pound of fat 
bacon and a calf's foot, cut the bacon into pieces two inches 
long, and half an inch square, lard the beef through with 
the bacon. Place the beef into the pan, and also the foot 
divided into two, and a bunch of sweet herbs, two middle- 
sized carrots, four or six onions cut into slices, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half a one of pepper, one pint of water, put the 
cover on the pan to prevent the steam escaping. Wlien 
done, remove all the fat from the top. Put the beef in a 
dish with the foot on each side, and the carrots and onions 
round, throw the gravy over, take away the herbs. This, 
as you may perceive, is a most exquisite dish, and it is 
good cold. 



To TMike Minced Collops. 85 

MINCED MEAT. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottaiva. 

The remains of any kind of cooked meat will be found 
very good, cut in thin slices longways, as many pieces as 
you can, laying them altogether, and cut in as small pieces 
cross- ways as you wish, then put into a wooden bowl and 
mince fine. Cut off any hard pieces of skin, and put them 
on to boil for two or three hours, with a quart or more of 
water, and boil it down to one-half pint. Put in one or 
two onions, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half of pepper, 
one teaspoonful of flour. This for one pound of meat. 
Then put all in the frying-pan, adding the half-pint of 
strained stock. Let it remain until it has simmered ten 
minutes, take up and serve with a slice of toast cut in dice 
and put round the dish. 

TO POT A LEG OF BEEF. 

M'Kenzies Receipts. 

Boil a leg of beef till the meat will come off the bone 
easily ; then mix it with a cow-heel previously cut into 
thin pieces, and season the whole with salt and spice. 
Add a little of the liquor in which the leg of beef was 
boiled, put into a colander or some other vessel that will 
let the liquor run off. Place a very heavy weight over 
it, and it will be ready for use in a day or two. It may 
be kept in souse made of bran, boiled in water with the 
addition of a little vinegar. 

TO MAKE MINCED COLLOPS. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottawa. 

Procure a nice thick steak of the round of beef ; cut 
out the bone and all the skin and any outside hard pieces. 
Put those on the fire for stock, with one or two onions 
and boil for two or three hours dowji to one-half pint of 



86 The Canadian Economist. 

water. Cut the steak in small pieces, then put in a wooden 
bowl, and mince fine ; then put into the saucepan with no 
water ; put on the fire and beat them with a pounder, 
until you see they are set, which will be in about seven 
or ten minutes, then strain the stock, and put to the col- 
lops with one teaspoonful of sugar, one of salt, one-half 
of pepper, one teaspoonful of flour. This quantity to one 
pound of meat, simmer for an hour, and serve with a slice 
of toast cut in dice and put round the dish. 

FJLLET OF BEEF WITH SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Mrs. Campbell, Toronto. 

One and a half pounds of fillet of beef, one pound of po- 
tatoes, yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful of cold water, 
one of cream, one ounce of butter, one half tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, half a teaspoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful 
of salt. The fillet must first be cut into slices nearly an 
inch in thickness. Place them then upon a slightly greased 
gridiron, and broil over a clear fire for eight minutes, turn- 
ing them constantl}'". Take then a small thin saucepan ; 
put into it the yolk of an egg ; pour over them the cold 
water, and whisk until well mixed, add the cream, lemon 
juice and butter, season with a very little of the pepper 
and salt, and place the saucepan either in a larger sauce- 
pan of boiling water, or over a very slow fire, and whisk 
the contents until the butter melts, and it rises to a froth. 
The slices of beef must now be arranged on a dish, in 
a circle, the end of one piece being made to lop over the 
other until the circle is complete. Pour over the sauce. 
Garnish the whole with a sprinkle of chopped parsley. 
Around the dish place a row of potato balls, prepared in 
this manner — one pound of potatoes, cut them with a 
French vegetable cutter, as many balls as the potatoes 
will furnish. Dry the balls well in a towel, throw them 
into hot lard for four minutes, when fired, drain them for 
^ moment and place them on a dish. 



.Beef Cutlets. 87 

TO MAKE BEEF TENDER. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Cut your steaks, the day before using, into slices about 
two inches- thick; rub over them a small quantity of car- 
bonate of soda, wash off next morning. Cut into suitable 
thickness. The same process will answer for fowl, legs of 
mutton, &c. 

STDFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Get tender steak, put it on the rack in your dripping- 
pan. Put some small ^neces of the fat in your pan, let 
your steak lie on the rack, until a skin comes over it, then 
turn over and do likewise. Take bread crumbs, butter, 
pepper, and salt, the same as for a fowl, spread them upon 
the upper part of the steak, put into the oven and bake 
well 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

Mrs. James Dalgleish. 

Stuffed beefsteak is as nice for dinner as a much more 
expensive roast, and it can be prepared from a rather poor 
flank or round- steak. Pound well, season with pepper and 
salt, then spread with a nice dres.sing. Roll out and tie 
closely wiih twine. Put in a kettle a quart of boiling 
water. Boil slowly one hour, take out and place in drip- 
ping pan, adding water in which it was boiled, basting 
until a nice brown, and making gravy of the diippings. 
It is delicious, sliced cold. 

BEEF CUTLETS. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

To vary the mutton chop by an almost equally digesti- 
ble morsel of meat is a great point. There is, however, 



88 The Canadian Economist. 

some little prejudice in England (and in Canada too), and 
no little ignorance on the subject of beef cutlets, or fillet 
steaks. They are voted tasteless, and many people sup- 
pose they can only be had from the undeiftut of the sir- 
loin. Butchers, however, will not cut cutlets properly, 
and the best way is to buy the whole undercut of the 
rump, and to divide it into cutlets at home. A portion 
of this fillet of beef can be reserved for a roast, and is 
always improved by being highly salted and peppered, and 
hung in a cool place for a day. In warm weather the 
meat should be carefully rubbed over with vinegar before 
it is sprinkled with salt and pepper. For cutlets trim 
away every particle of skin and fat, leaving only the de- 
licate round fillet, which divide into slices half an inch 
thick. Slightly pepper and salt the cutlets, and set them 
aside on a plate for two hours or more, then broil them 
slowly, turning often for five or six minutes. They can 
either be served plainly or with a piece of butter, fine 
and fresh, the size of a filbert mixed with chopped par- 
sley, pepper, and salt, laid on each cutlet the moment be- 
fore serving. 

BEEF CUTLET SAUTE. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Prepare the cutlets as for boiling, have ready the fry- 
ing-pan, which should be of the smallest size and perfectly 
clean, a small piece of dissolved biitter, put in the cutlet, 
let it cook as gently as possible for half a minute, then 
turn it on the other side for the same time, and so continue 
turning till the cutlet is done. If parsley is liked, when 
the cutlet is last turned, sprinkle a little, nicely- chopped, 
on the upper side, put the cutlet to a very hot plate, pour 
over it any gravy v/hich may be in the pan and serve veiy 
hot. A slice taken from the undercut of the sirloin ma}'^ 
be cooked in this way. The great art of serving this little 
dish to perfection, lies in slow cooking and frequent turn- 
ins:. 



Curried Beef. 89 

TRIPE, 

Cookei'y for Invalids. 

Tripe is exceedingly well suited to delicate digestions. 

There is some little difficulty in making it savouiy with- 
out the use of onions, but where these are not objected to, 
it will be found a change from fish and other light diet. - 
When tripe comes in from the shop, it should be considered 
only half cooked, and from two to three hours is not too 
long to simmer it. To stew tripe white, put one-half of a 
pound in a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of water, a 
saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and two minced 
onions. Let it simmer gently for two hours or until per- 
f ectl}' tender. Then strain the gravy, take oflf every particle 
of fat, boil it up, and thicken it with a small dessertspoon- 
ful of fiour mixed smooth in two or three tablespoonsful 
of cream or milk. Put the tripe back into this sauce, and 
let it simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. Lemon 
juice or a few drops of vinegar are good additions to tripe. 

BEEF BROSE. 

CasselVs Dictionat'y of Cookery. 

Take the liquor from the boiling of a large joint of 
beef. After the meat has been removed, make it come to 
the boil and stir into it some oatmeal, which has been 
previously browned in an oven. Send it to table quite 
hot, but not too thick. A little of the liquor made to boil 
up will remedy this. 

CURRIED BEEF. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Cut an onion and half a baking apple, peeled and cored, 
into very small pieces, and fiy them in a saucepan for two 
or three minutes. Add a pound of cold roast or boiled 
beef cut into thin slices, fiy the meat and pour over it half 
a pint of water, in which has been stirred a teaspoonful 



90 The Canadian Economist. 

of curry powder, and simmer for ten minutes. Serve with 
boiled rice in a separate dish. 

hunter's beef. 

Get a nice round of beef, weighing about twenty-five 
pounds, and hang it for two or three days, according to 
the weather. When hung long enough, put it into a salt- 
ing pan, reduce the following ingredients to powder, and 
rub it into the meat every morning for eighteen or twenty 
days, turning it at every rubbing, three ounces of salt- 
petre, three ounces of coarse sugar, one ounce of cloves, 
one nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, one pound of salt, 
and half a pound of bay-salt. When salt enough, cleanse 
it from the brine, put a bandage round the whole extent 
of the meat to keep it in shape, and lay it in a pan with 
half a pint of water at the bottom, and shred suet on 
the top of the beef. Cover all with a paste composed of 
flour and water, and bake it for about six hours. Do not 
remove the paste until the heat has quite gone off. The 
bandage round the beef should be clean, and not quite 
new. The gravy left at the bottom of the pan should be 
preserved. It will be found excellent for made dishes of 
any kind. The beef may be glazed and garnished with 
savoury jelly. 

LARDED BEEF. 

The Dinner Year-BooJc. 

Make perpendicular incisions in your cold roast, having 
trimmed the top smoothly and thrust in lardoons of fat salt 
pork, set closely together. Take the fat from the cold 
gravy, and add to the latter a little minced onion, or table- 
spoonful of catsup, and a large cup of boiling water. Lay 
the meat in a dripping-pan, pour the gravy upon it, invert 
another pan over it, and cook it in a moderate oven about 
an hour. Turn the meat once, and baste six times with 
the gravy. Dish the meat ; strain the gravy, thicken it 
with browned flour, boil up, and pour into a boat. 



Beef Pasty. 91 

SOUSED BEEF. 

Take either buttock, chuck, or brisket of beef, and sea- 
son with salt and pepper for four days ; then roll it up as 
even as you can, tie a cloth fast about it, and boil it in 
salt and water till it is tender, then souse it in water and 
vinegar and a little salt. Put it in a hook frame to form it 
round and upright, then dry it in some smoky place^ or 
in the air. When you wish to use it, cut it out in slices 
and serve it with sugar and mustard. 

BEEF SMOKED, HAMBURG. 

Take a rump of beef, put it into a pan, with juniper 
berries, thyme, basil, clove of garlic, bay leaf, cloves and 
onions cut in slices. Cover your pan very carefully so as 
to exclude all air; turn your meat every two or three 
days; at the end of a fortnight take it out, and after hav- 
ing washed it in several waters, drain it for four and 
twenty hours ; then wrap it in a clean cloth, put it into 
a saucepan, and let it stew for seven or eight hours ; take 
it out and let it drain. Serve cold the same as ham. 

RIB OF BEEF. 

Book of the Household. 

Keep two or three ribs of beef till perfectly tender, take 
out the bones and skewer the meat as round as possible. 
Some cook eggs and stuff them with beef stuffing. At first 
have a gentle fire and then make it stronger. It will take 
four or five hours. 

BEEF PASTY. 

Book of the Household. 

Take a small rump or sirloin of beef, bone it and beat 
it well with a rolling pin, to five pounds of beef, take two 
ounces of sugar, rub it well into the meat, and let it lie 
for twenty-four hours ; then wipe it clean, and season it 



92 The Canadian Economist. 

highly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; put it in your 
pasty, and lay over it one pound of butter ; close it up 
and bake it. Put the bones into a pan with just as much 
water as will cover them, and bake them to make gravy, 
and when the pasty is drawn, put in some of this gravy. 

FILLET OF BEEF ROASTED AND LARDED. 

Booh of the Household. 

Take of the superfluous fat and tie the fillet ready for 
cooking ; lard it at each extremity, leaving the middle 
without lard. Let it soak for some days in oil seasoned 
with onions, parsley, lemon juice and pepper. Truss it 
in the form of an S or a round, and roast it till it retains 
a good colour. Dish it with any sauce you may think 
best, 

BEEF LOAF. 

The Home Cook Book. 

Three and a-half pounds of beef, minced very fine and 
uncooked ; four large crackers, crushed very fine, one e^g, 
one cupful of milk, butter size of an egg, one tablespoonful 
of salt, one of pepper, mix in shape of a loaf, and bake in 
a slow oven two hours and a-half, basting often ; to be 
eaten cold. Very nice for tea and lunch. 

TO STEW A ROUND OF BEEF. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Georgetown. 

Boil the beef until it is rather more than half done. 

Gash it with a sharp knife, then rub it over with salt 
and pepper and sweet herbs^ chopped fine, also one onion 
cut small, dredge it with flour, strew bits of butter over 
and put it into a dinner pot with a pint or more of the 
water in which it was boiled ; cover it closely, and let it 
bake or stew slowly for two hours ; add a little hot water 
when it may be necessary to keep it from burning. Turn 



Best Way to Cook a Sirloin SteaJc. 93 

it once, when it is nicely browned, take it up, add a little 
boiling water to the gravy. Stir it well together, let it 
boil up once, and then pour it over the meat. 

BEST WAY TO COOK A SIRLOIN STEAK. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Procure a sirloin steak, about an inch thick. Place it 
on a meat board, and trim it well by cutting off all the 
skin from round the edge of the steak, and anv fat that 
may be on it, leaving in the bone. Beat it well with a 
j beefsteak hammer. Have the frying-pan heating, and 
when quite hot, put in a piece of butter the size of a 
hickory nut, and tip the pan round and roimd, so that the 
butter will go all over the surface of the pan. Put in the 
steak, and keep turning it every second, constantly, with 
a pancake slice ^two of them is better than one) for five 
minutes. While this operation is going on, have your 
assiette warming, have it very hot indeed, and have your 
meat cover very hot also, heat it over steam, and when 
the steak is ready, put on the assiette a tablespoonful 
of mushroom catsup, and put the steak on it, take a piece 
of butter about the size of a walnut, and with the point 
of a knife keep pressing in the half of this butter, in nips 
all over the surface of the st^ak. But you must press it 
in with the point of a knife remember, and sprinkle pep- 
per and salt over to suit the taste. Turn over the steak 
and do the same to the other side wdth the other half of 
the butter, put a sprinkle of pepper and salt on it too. To 
make the gravy, when the steak is put on the dish, put a 
tablespoonful or so of boiling water in the frying pan, tilt 
it round once or twice and pour it on the assiette, on the 
side of the dish (not on the steak) and let it run down. 
This is very important. If more gravy is required, take 
the trimmings and a little bit of the end of the steak, and 
put on in a saucepan an hour or so before using the steak, 
and you will have nice gravy. Of course the steak can be 



&4 The Canadian Economist. 

broiled on a gridiron, but this mode of cooking it is pre- 
ferred. 

TO COOK BEEFSTEAK. 

Mrs. Smith, Bristol. 

Place the spider on a hot fire ; when it is quite hot ; 
put on the steak, which should be an inch thick, have as 
few pieces as possible. Keep turning it to prevent burn- 
ing. If the pan is hot enough, it ought to be turned 
every fifteen seconds. In three minutes place it on a 
platter previously warmed, and sprinkle salt and pepper 
to suit, also one ounce of butter, to each pound of steak. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Mrs. Stitt, Ottaiva. 

Ingredients — twelve to fourteen pouncb round beef, one- 
half pound of coarse brown sugar, one ounce saltpetre, 
quarter pound pounded allspice, one pound coarse salt. 
Kub the sugar well into the beef, ]et it lie one day, then 
rub in the salt. Turn daily for a fortnight. Put it into 
warm water and boil very gently from three and a-half 
to four hours, according to weight. To be served cold. 

SPICED ROUND OF BEEF. 

Mrs. {Senator) Vidal, Sarnia. 

Let the round drain for a day, then one-half pound 
coarse brown sugar, and rub for three days all over, after 
which rub well every day, for three weeks, with the follow- 
ing mixture : three-quarter pound of common salt, four 
ounces of black pepper, two ounces of saltpetre, one and a-half 
of allspice, one and a-half of cloves. All pounded very fine, 
and mix well together. When ready to bake place in a 
pan with two bits of nice fat over it. Make a crast of any 
kind of meal or flour. Cover the round and pan, so as to 
keep in the steam, and bake from four to five hours, ac- 
cording to size of round. 



To Pot Beef. 95 

SCARLET BEEF. 

Mrs. Hugh Young, Sand Point. 

Mix a little mace, cloves, allspice, black pepper, and salt- 
petre. Rub it well into two pounds of tender lean beef ; 
let it lie six days, turning it daily and rubbing it with 
the pickle. Then roll and tie it firmly with tape, put it 
and the pickle into a small jar, with a slice of beef suet 
under and over it, tie it closely, and bake it an hour. It 
is eaten cold, cut in thin slices and garnished with parsley. 
If kept long, the colour fades. 

SCARLET BEEF. 

Old Cookei'y Book. 

Take a piece of a breast of very fat beef ; blanch it 
twenty-four houi-s in cold water; then drain the water 
away from it, and dry it well with a cloth, rub it well 
with brown sugar, salt, and saltpetre, turn it every day 
for a fortnight, and then boil it, it eats very well hot with 
greens, and when sliced down, makes a very pretty cold 
asset. 

TO POT BEEF. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Take some slices of a rump or a hock-bone of beef; strew 
a little saltpetre on it ; let it lie two days ; then put it 
in the potting-can with a good deal of butter and suet ; 
tie it close up with paper and put in a quick oven ; let it 
bake two or three hours ; then take it out and pour all 
the fat and gravy clean from it ; when it is cold pull it all 
into threads and beat very fine in a mortar : season it with 
salt and mixed spices. Whatever weight of beef you have, 
take the same weight of sweet butter, oil and skim it, 
pour it on the meat and keep back the grounds. You 
must work the butter and meat well together ; then press 
it into small white pots, and oil some more butter, pour it 



96 The Canadian Economist 

on the top, and tie them close up with paper. You may 
send it in the pots to the table. . 

TO KED A RUMP OF BEEF. 

Old Cookery Booh. 

For one rump, take two ounces of saltpetre, a quarter 
pound brown sugar, half-pound of bay salt, one ounce of 
Jamaica pepper, two drops of cloves, a nutmeg or two, 
beat and mix them altogether, and rub it into the beef 
as well as you can ; then rub it over with common salt, 
bed and cover it with the same. Let it lie three weeks, 
turning it every other day, and then hang it up. 

TO COLLAR BEEF. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Take the nine-holes of beef; bone it; rub it well with 
salt and saltpetre ; let it lie three or four days, or more, 
according to the thickness of the beef ; take it up and 
dry it well with a cloth ; then season it very well with 
mixed spices and sweet herbs ; roll it up very hard and 
roll a cloth about it ; tie the cloth very tight at both ends; 
bind the whole collar very lirm with broad tape ; put it 
into a pot of boiling water; be sure to keep it always 
covered with water. If it is very thick, it will take nearly 
four hours boiling. When it is boiled, hang it up by one 
of the ends of the cloth to drop the water from it, when 
it is cold loose it out of the bindings. You may make a 
collar of pork the very same way ; it takes always a little 
more boiling than beef. 

BEEF LIVER FOR GRAVY. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

The liver must be first hung up to drain. After that 
salt it well and leave it twenty -four hours in a dish. Then 
hang it up to drain, and when it has ceased dripping, hang 



Beef Olives. 97 

it in a dry place for use. It is excellent for gravy to cut- 
lets and all made dishes. 

TO ROAST A FRESH TONGUK 

Warne's Every-day Cookery. 

The tongue; twenty -four cloves, a quarter pound of but- 
ter ; about six ounces of bread-crumbs ; two eggs. Soak 
the tongue till it has thoroughly disgorged, in lukewarm 
water, for about ten or twelve hours. Trim and scrape 
it, stick it over with the cloves, and boil it slowly for 
two, or, if large, three hours. Then take it up, and brush 
it over with the yolks of the eggs, sprinkle it with bread- 
crumbs. Run a long iron skewer through it, and roast 
it of a nice brown, basting it constantly with butter. Put 
it on a hot dish, and pour round it half a pint of good 
gravy. Serve it with red currant jelly, 

TO DRESS A BUIXOCK's HEART. 

Warne's Every-day Cookei'y. 

One heart ; veal stuffing ; half a pint of rich gravy. 
Soak a bullock's heart for three hours in warm water ; re- 
move the lopes and stuff the inside with veal forcemeat ; 
sew it securely in ; fasten some white paper over the heart 
and roast it two hours before a strong fire, keeping it 
basted frequently. Just before serving, remove the paper, 
baste and froth it up, and serve with a rich gravy poured 
round it, and currant jelly, separately. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Warne's Every-day Cookery. 

A pound and half of rump steak ; three yolks of eggs, 
a little beaten mace, pepper, and salt, teacupful of bread- 
crumb?, two ounces of marrow or suet, a sprig of parsley, 
the rind of half a lemon ; one pint of brown gravy ; a tea- 
spoonful of ketchup; one of browning; a teaspoonful of 
7 



98 Tlte Canadian Economist. 

lemon pickle, a piece of butter rolled in flour ; eight force- 
meat balls. Cut the steak into slices of about half an 
inch thick, and six or seven inches long, rub them over 
with the yolk of a beaten egg, and strew thickly over them 
some bread-crumbs, the marrow or suet chopped fine, then 
the parsley minced, the grated rind of half a lemon, a little 
beaten mace and some pepper and salt, all mixed well to- 
gether. Roll each olive round, fasten it with a small 
skewer, and brown them lightly before the fire in a Dutch 
oven. Then put them into a stewpan with the gravy, 
ketchup, browning, and lemon pickle, thicken with apiece 
of butter rolled in flour, and serve the olives in the gravy. 
Garnish with forcemeat balls. 

TO PREPARE A ROUND OF BEEF FOR BAKING. 

Let it lie one night in common salt and saltpetre ; and 
rub it very well ; then take a very small quantity of all- 
spice, nutmeg, mace, and black pepper, ground very fine ; 
rub one half on the beef at first, and the remainder, a little 
every day for nine days, when it will be fit for baking. 
The quantity of spice depends on the piece of beef, on the 
size of it. Light brown sugar must be mixed with the 
saltpetre and spice. The beef must be larded with some 
suet previous to baking it. 

BEEFSTEAK DUMPLING. 

Choose a juicy piece of beef without much fat and cut 
it into neat slices, about half an inch thick, sprinkle some 
salt and pepper over them, place a small lump of butter 
on each, roll them up tight and flour them a little. Line 
a basin with plain suet paste, fill it with the rolls of beef, 
add a few mushrooms and a little catsup. Cover up the 
meat with the paste, tie up the basin in a floured cloth, 
and boil it three hours. 

TO PRESERVE MEAT IN SUMMER. 

Coating meat with dry wheaten flour will retain it 
sweet for a three-fold lengthened period, even in tropical 



Beef. 99 

climates, the flour acting as an isolater against air and 
moisture. Decomposition will not occur at the tempera- 
ture of freezing. This proves the great advantage of ice- 
chests for the preservation of food. 

BEEF. 

CasselVs household Guide. 

In ordinary weather a round of beef, weighing seven or 
eight pounds, will be sufKciently salted for domestic use 
in five or six days ; but meat absorbs salt in hot weather 
much quicker than in cold. During the former, it must 
be protected from flies, whose maggots are not afraid of 
brine, by throwing net or muslin over it, or keeping it 
under a wire- work cover, or in a meat safe. Rub the 
meat all over with half an ounce of saltpetre, to give it 
colour. Let it remain so for two or three hours. Then 
you may pile over the meat half a pound or so of good 
brown sugar. This is not essential, but is a great improve- 
ment ; those who taste the beef will find the flavour good, 
without guessing the reason why. Then cover it com- 
pletely with common salt, piled over it, till eveiy part of 
it is hidden. To be sparing of this useful article is veiy 
poor economy ; it is hardly prudent to spoil five shillings 
worth of meat, for the sake of two pennyworth of salt. 
Turn the beef in the salting-pan every day, and ladle it 
with the brine which comes away from it. Before boiling 
it, rinse it rapidly in cold spring water. You may stuff 
it in one or two places with chopped parsley, thrust into 
holes made through it with a knife. Lean joints of beef 
should always have a portion of fat salted with them to 
be boiled and served at the same time. Set salt beef on 
the fire with the water cold, and remove the scum as fast 
as it rises. When it boils, throw in turnips, carrots, 
onions, and parsnips ; if approved afterwards, allow it 
only to bubble up without ever coming to a gallop. Beef 
that has long been salted in brine, before it can be cooked, 



100 The Canadian Economist. 

must have some of the salt drawn out by steeping in fresh 
water. 

MEAT GLAZE IN A HURRY. 

(For the above or other meats to be served cold.) 

Cassell's Household Guide. 

Cut a quarter of a pound of beef or veal into very thin 
slices ; fry them in butter over a gentle fire ; take the 
fryingpan off the fire, add a winegiassful of water, pepper, 
and salt. Set the pan on the fire again ; scrape tlie inside 
with a spoon ; lot it boil up and thicken ; pass it through 
a strainer into a cup, and it is fit for application to the 
meat to be orlazed. 




CHAPTER VIII. 
TO BOIL A HAM. 

Warm's Eveiy-day Cookery. 

A BLADE of mace ; a few cloves, a sprig of thyme, 
and two ba}'^ leaves. Well soak the ham in a large 
quantity of water for twenty-four houi-s, then trim and 
scrape it very clean, put it into a large st«wpan with more 
than suflBcient water to cover it. Put in a blade of mace, 
a few cloves, a spiig of thy^ue and two bay -leaves. Boil 
it for four or five houi-s, according to the weight ; and 
when done, let it become cold in the liquor in which it was 
boiled. Then remove the rind carefully without injuring 
the fat, press a cloth over it to absorb as much of the grease 
as possible, and shake some bread i^aspings over the fat, 
or brush it thickly over with glaze. Serve it cold, gar- 
nished with parsley, or aspic jelly in the dish. Ornament 
the knuckle with a paper frill and vegetable flowers. 

OR TO SERVE HOT. 

Warne's Eveiry-day Cookery. 

Before placing your ham in soak, nin a small sharp 
knife into it close to the bone, and if when withdrawn, it 
has a pleasant smell, the ham is good. Lay it in cold 
water to soak for twenty-four houi-s, if it has hung long, 
changing the water twice ; but twelve hours is the usual 
time for a Yorkshire ham. Before boiiing:, wash it thor- 
oughly, and trim it neatly, removing any rusty parts. 
Cover it well with water, bring it gi'adually to a boil, tak- 



102 The Canadian Economist. 

ing care that it continues to do so (but not too fast}, and 
as the scum rises skim the pot carefully. When it is done, 
draw off the skin, and sift bi'ead -raspings over the ham. 
Place a frill of paper around the knuckle and serve. 

TO STEAM BACON. 

Warne's Every -day Cookery. 

It is a mistake to boil bacon. It should be steamed. 
No waste then takes place as to quantity, and the flavour 
is quite preserved, while the bacon is much more tender, 
as it cannot well be spoiled by too much boiling, or rather 
too quick boiling. Scrape the outer rind or skin well, 
wash the bacon, })ut it in a steamer over a pot of boiling 
water and steam it for as long as required, by the weight. 
Serve it with veal or fowls or by itself with greens. 

TO SALT LARDING BACON. 

}yarne's Every-day CooJcei'y. 

Bacon to be used for larding should be very firm 
and fat, and should not be cured with saltpetre, the eflfoct 
of which is to redden white meats. Rub the pieces of 
bacon you wish to keep for lai'ding with fine salt, lay them 
well salted, one on the other, put a weight on them 
and leave them for six weeks in pickle, then have them 
smoked quite dry. Directions for larding are given in this 
work, but only practice can enable the cook to lard nicely. 

TO STEAM A HAM. 

Warne's Every-day Cookery. 

If the ham has been hung for some time, put into cold 
water, and let it soak all night, or let it lie on a damp stone 
sprinkled with water for two days to mellow. Wash it 
well, put it into a steamer — ^there are proper ones made 
for the purpose — over a pot of boiling water. Steam it 



To Broil Scdt Pork lOa 

for as long time as the weight requires, the pro])ortion of 
time given above. This is by far the best way of cooking 
a ham. It prevents waste and retains the flavour. When 
it is done, skin it and strew bread-raspings over it as usual. 
If you preserve the skin as whole as possible, and cover 
the ham when cold with it, it will prevent its becoming 
dry. 

TO BOIL BACON. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

If very salt, soak it in soft water two hours berfbre cook- 
ing. Put it into a saucepan with plenty of water, and let 
it boil gently. If a fine piece of the gammon of bacon, it 
may, when done, have the skin as in hams, stripped off, 
and have finely powdered bread -raspings strewed over it. 

PORK TENDER-LOINS. 

Wariies Every-day Cookery. 

Are either fried or broiled. In either case they require 
to be very thoroughly done, and served without gravy, 
simply adding a tablespoonful of vinegar to the drippin'T^ 
from the gridiron in the pan. 

TO FRY SALT PORK. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

Salt pork is greatly improved by soaking it in milk 
two or three hours, then rolling it in Indian meal before 
frying. 

TO BROIL SALT PORK. 

Warm's Every-day Coolcery. 

Soak some thin slices of salt pork in milk for two or three 
hours, lay on the fine double gridiron, and turn quickly, 
so as not to scorch. This makes a delicious supper-dish. 



104 The Canadian Economist. 

if cooked and eaten promptly. It should not be taken 
off the coals till the family are seated at the table. Serve 
on a very hot dish. 

TO BAKE SALT PORK. 

Warne's Every-day Cookery. 

Let it soak over night in skimmed milk, then bake like 
fresh pork. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

One quart of beans soaked over night in tepid water, 
in which has been dissolved one teaspoonful of soda. 
Early in the morning pour this water off, add two quarts 
of boiling water and half a teaspoonful of soda, boil the 
beans two hours, until the skin crack. Then drain, put 
into a bean-pot, or large tin or earthen dish, in the centre 
of which is a pound of salt pork scored in small squares. 
Let the beans come up to the level of the rind of the 
pork, pour over this one quart of boiling water, in which 
two tablespoonsful of molasses have been stirred. Cover 
and bake slowly from two to four hours. If necessary, 
you may add a teacup more of boiling water. 

CHESHIRE PORK- PIE. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Cut two or three pounds of lean fresh pork into strips 
as long and as wide as your middle finger. Line a but- 
tered dish with puff-paste ; put in a layer of pork seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, or mace ; next a layer of 
juicy apples, sliced and covered with about an ounce of 
white sugar ; then more pork, and so on, until you are 
ready for the paste cover, when pour in half a pint of 
sweet cider, and stick bits of butter all over the top. 
Cover with a thick lid of puff-paste, cut a slit in the top, 



Sausage. 105 

brush over with beaten egg and bake an hour and a haK. 
This is an English dish, and is famous in the region from 
which it takes its name. It is much liked by those who 
have tried it, and is considered by some equal to oiu- 
mince-pie. Yorkshire pork -pie is made in the same way, 
with the omission of the apples, sugar, and nutmeg, and 
the addition of sao-e to the seasoning. 

SAUSAGE. 

CoDWion Sense in the Household. 

Six pounds of lean fresh pork, three pounds of fat fresh 
pork, twelve tea.spoonsful of powdered sage, six of black 
pepper, six of salt, two of powdered mace, two of powdered 
cloves, one grated nutmeg. Grind the meat, fat and lean, 
in a sausage mill, or chop it very fine. The mill is better, 
and the grinding does not occupy one-tenth of the time 
that chopping does, to say nothing of the labour ; one can 
be bought for three or four dollars, and will well repay 
the purchaser. Mix the seasoning in with your hands, 
taste to be sure all is right, and pack down in stone jars, 
pouring melted lard on the top. Another way of preserv- 
ing them is to make long narrow bags of muslin, larcre 
enough to contain each enough sausage for a family dish. 
Fill them with the meat, dip in melted lard, and hang 
from the beams of the cellar. If you wish to pack in the 
intestines of the pig, they should be carefully prepared 
a.s follows : Empty them, cut them in lengths, and lay for 
two days in salt and water. Turn them inside out, and 
lay in soak one day longer. Scrape them, rinse well in 
soda and water, wipe and blow into one end, having tied 
up the other with a bit of twine. If they are whole and 
clear, stuff with the meat ; tie up and hang in the store- 
room or cellar. These are fried in their cases in a clean 
diy frying-pan, until brown. If you have the sausage 
meat in bulk, make into small round flat cakes and fry 
in the same way. Some dip in egg and pounded cracker- 



106 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

crumbs, others roll in flour before cooking. Their own 
fat will cook them. Send to table dry and hot, but do 
not let them fry hard. When one side is done, turn the 
other. The fire should be very brisk. Ten minutes or 
twelve at the outside, is long enough to cook them. 

LARD. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Every housekeeper knows how unfit for really nice 
cooking is the pressed lard sold in stores as the best and 
cheapest. "It is close and tough, melts slowly, and is 
sometimes diversified by fibrous lumps." And when lard 
has been " tried out " by the usual process, it is often 
mix:cd with so much water as to remind us unpleasantly 
that it is bought by weight. The best way of preparing 
the " leaf lard," as it is called, is to skin it carefully, wash 
and let it drain ; then put it, cut into bits, into a large 
clean tin kettle or bucket, and set this in a pot of boiling 
water. Stir from time to time until it has melted ; throw 
in a very little salt, to make the sediment settle ; and 
when it is hot — (it should not boil fast at any time, but 
simmer gently until clear). Strain through a coarse cloth 
into jars. Do not squeeze the cloth so long as the clear 
fat will run through, and when you press the refuse into 
a diflferent vessel to be used for commoner purposes than 
the other. 

TO PICKLE PORK. 

Hams, shoulders, chines and " middlings " are the parts 
of the hog which are usually pickled. This is done as 
soon as may be after the meat is fairly cold, especially in 
moderate weather. Whenyou can pack down pork twenty- 
four hours after butchering, it is best to doso unless the cold 
be severe enough to preserve it longer. Four pounds of 
salt, one pound of brown sugar, one ounce saltpetrs in 
three gallons of water. Put into a large saucepan and 



A Roast of Pork. 107 

boil for half an liour, skimming off the scum. When cold, 
pour over the meat and let it lie for a few days. This is 
intended to corn a small quantity of meat for family use, 

FKIED HAil. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

If raw, soak as for broiling. Cook in a hot fiying-pan 
turning often till it is done. Serve with or without the 
gravy as you please. 

PLANS FOR ilAKING THE MOST OF A PIG. 

Make some of the commonest parts of the pig into sau- 
sages, chopping the lean by itself very fine, and the fat 
not so fine, season highly with salt and pepper as you 
proceed, and sage and savory. Have cheap factory cot- 
ton bags made, as thick as your arm, pack in the chopped 
meat very tight, tie close and hang where they will freeze. 
To use, rip up the bag as far as you need, slice and fry. 
If these are made before Christmas, they will keep all 
winter. 

Rinds and sausage trimmings boil to a jelly. Season 
with pepper, salt, and sage. Cut them in small pieces. 
They will keep to use slowly. Warm in a spider, with 
a little of its own liquid and a tablespoonful of vinegar 
enough for breakfast. 

The bones are kept for soups, such as peas, beans, rice, 
&c. Don't pot the whole head. Pickle the cheeks. They 
are very choice pai-ts. Make a cheese of the rest, along 
with the feet, ankles, tail, eai-s, &c. 

A ROAST OF PORK. 

A small piece of pork, the kidneys and heart stuffed 
with potatoes and onions or bread. Put the pork in the 
centre of the dish. The kidneys at each side, the heart 
and tonoTie at the ends. 



108 Ihe Canadian Economist. 

LEG OF FKESH PQRK ROASTED. 

Home Messenger Book. 

Score in crossed lines a leg of pork ; inin the knife 
around the bone until it is loosened, take out the bone 
and fill the place with a rich stuffing made of stale bread, 
seasoned with butter, salt, pepper, and onion. Take a few 
stitches to prevent the stuffing from coming out. Put it 
on the spit and baste it with fresh butter (it is more deli- 
cate than lard). Fresh pork requires longer cooking than 
any other meat. Serve with hot apple sauce and fresh 
potatoes cut in quarters and fried. It will take from 
three to four hours to cook, according to size. 

PORK SPARE RIBS. 

Home Messenger Booh. 

Are best well broiled over a slow fire, and served with 
hot apple sauce. 

SUCKING PIG. 

Home Messenger Booh. 

Sucking pig is merely plain roasted, stuff*ed with veal 
stuffing, but before putting it to roast, it requires to be 
rubbed very dry and floured, otherwise the skin would 
not eat crisp ; the usual method of serving it is to cut off 
the head, and divide the body and head of the pig in halves 
lengthwise ; pour over some sauce made of the brains and 
a little brown sauce, or of white melted butter, nicely 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar ; serve apple sauce 
separate in a boat, if approved of 

ROAST PIG. 

Dinner Year Book. 

See that the butcher has done his part well, in cleaning 
the month-old pig. Rinse out with soda and water, then 



Pork Cutlets. 109 

with fair water, wiping the pig dry, inside and out. 
Prepare a dressing of a cupful of crumbs, half a chopped 
onion, two teaspoonsf ul of powdered sage, three of melted 
butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and as much pepper, half a 
grated nutmeg and the yolks of two beaten eggs. Moisten 
with half a cupful of soup-stock, and stuff' the little fellow 
into his original size and shape. Sew him up, and place 
him in a kneeling posture in the dripping pan, skewering 
or tying his legs in the proper position. Dredge with flour, 
Pour a little hot-salted water in the dripping pan. Baste 
with butter and water three times as the pig warms ; af- 
terwards with gravy from the. dripping-pan. When he 
begins to smoke all over, rub every ten n)inutes with a 
rag dipped in melted butter. This will keep the skin 
from cracking. Roast in a moderate steady oven for two 
hours. Put the innocent still kneeling upon a large hot 
dish ; .surround with celery and blanched celery tops. Put 
a wreath of green about his neck, and a sprig of celery 
in his mouth. Skim and strain the gravy ; thicken with 
browned flour ; boil up, add the juice of a lemon, and serve 
in a boat. In carving, cut off the head first ; then split 
down the back ; take off hams and shoulders, and separate 
the ribs. 

PORK CUTLETS. 

Little Dinners. 

Cut them from a loin of small, dairy fed pork. The 
best plan is to take the meat in one piece from the bones, 
and then divide it into cutlets. Trim away nearly all the 
lat, and let the cutlets be about half an incn thick. Save 
the kidney for a breakfast dish, but use the under fillet 
as cutlets. Take all the bones and skin, with any bits of 
bacon and ham you may have, fry them brown with two 
sliced onions, and put them on to boil for two hours, in 
only enough water to cover them, the object being to 
make the gravy strong. Strain it and let it get cold, in 
order to remove the fat. This done, put it on to boil down 



110 The Canadian Economist. 

with isinglass or oelatine, and enough browning to give 
it a good colour. When you have broiled the cutlets, un- 
til they are nicely done and a little brown, brush them 
over with this glaze, arrange nicely on a dish, and put 
round them some tomato sauce, made from tomato com- 
pote, to be had at all Italian warehouses. In order not 
to waste any, put tlie compote into an earthenware jar 
with a little of the pork glaze, set it in a saucepan of 
water, and so let it get hot. 

FILLET OF PORK. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Cut a fillet or round, handsomely and evenly, from a 
fine leg of fresh pork. Remove the bone. Make a stuff"- 
ing or forcemeat of grated bread-crumbs, butter, a tea- 
spoonful of sweet marjoram, or tarragon leaves, and sage 
leaves enough to make a small teaspoonful when mfnced 
or rubbed fine ; all well mixed and slightly seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Then stuff" it closely into the hole 
from whence the bone was taken. Score the skin of the 
pork to go all round the fillet. These circles should be 
very close together or about half an inch apart. Rub into 
them lightly a little powdered sage. Roast it well till it 
is thoroughly done throughout, as pork if the least under- 
done is not fit to eat. Place it for the first hour, not very 
close to the fire, that the meat may get well heated all 
through, before the skin begins to harden, so as to pre- 
vent the heat from penetrating sufiiciently. Then set as 
near the fire as it can be placed without danger of scorch- 
ing. Keep it roasting steadily with a bright, good, regu- 
lar fire for two or three hours, or longer still if it is a large 
fillet. It may require four hours. Baste it at the begin- 
ning with sweet oil (which will make it crisp), or with 
lard. 



. Spare Rib of Pork. Ill 

pig's cheek (a xew method). 

Soyer. 

Procure a pig's cheek, nicely pickled, boil well until it 
is very tender, tie half a pint of split peas in a cloth, put 
them into a stewpan of boiling water, boil about half an 
hour, take them out, pass through a hair sieve, put them 
into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a little pepper 
and salt and four esss. Stir them over the fire until the 

• ill 

eggs are partially set, then spread it over the pigs cheek, 
egg with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, place 
in the oven ten minutes, brown it with a salamander, and 
serve. 

LOIN OR NECK OF PORK (NORMANDY FASHION). 

Soyer. 

Procure a neck or loin, put it in a common earthen dish 
having previously scored the rind, rub over with a little 
oil or butter, place about twenty potatoes, cut in halves or 
in quarters, in the dish with the pork, ten onions peeled, 
and twenty apples peeled and quartered, place in a warm 
oven for an hour and a-half or more, then dress it upon 
the dish with the apples, onions, and potatoes around and 
serve. 

SPARE RIB OF PORK. 

Soyer. 

When spitted, rub some flour over the rind, roast it 
before a clear tire, not too strong, or cover it with paper ; 
about ten minutes before taking it up, throw some pow- 
dered sage over it, and froth it up with some butter in a 
spoon, and serve with gravy under. Afterwards baste it 
with its own gravy. \Vhen done, skim the fat from the 
gravy, and dredge in it a little flour to thicken it. Send 
the pork to table with the gravy in a boat ; and a deep 



112 The Canadian Economist. ^ 

dish of apple sauce, made very thick, flavoured with lemon 
and sweetened well. 

HIND QUARTER OF SUCKING PIG. 

Soyer. 

Cut off the skin, cover with paper, and roast before a 
quick fire about three quarters of an hour, ten minutes 
before being ready, remove the paper and baste it ; serve 
with gravy under, and mint sauce and salad. 

SALT PORK. 

Soyer. 

Pork is salted in the same manner as described for beef, 
omitting the sal-prunella, but of course not requiring so 
long a time ; a leg weighing seven pounds would be well 
salted in a week, as also would a hand and spring weigh- 
ing about ten pounds, and either would require two hours 
boiling, putting them in a stewpan, with cold water, and 
serving with carrots and greens and pease-pudding. 

ITALIAN PORK. 

Soyer. 

Take a nice leg of fresh pork; rub it well with fine salt 
and let it lie in the salt a week or ten days. When you 
wisli to cook it, put the pork in a large pot with just 
sufllicient water to cover it, and let it simmer four hours, 
skimming it well. Then take it out, and lay it on a large 
dish. Pour the water from the pot into an earthen pan ; 
skim it and let it cool while j^ou are skimming the pork, 
then put into a pot one pint of good vinegar, mixed with 
halt pound of brown sugar, and a pint of the w^ater in 
which the pork has been boiled, and from which has been 
carefully skimmed oft all the fat. Put in the pork with 
the upper side toward the bottom of the pot. Set it again 



Pig's Feet and Ears. 113 

over the fire which must first be increased, and heat the 
inside of the potlid by standing it upright against the 
front of the fire. Then cover the pot closely and let the 
pork stew for an hour and a-half longer ; basting it fre- 
quently with the liquid around it, and keeping the potlid 
as hot as possible, that the meat may be well browned. 
When done, the pork will have s6mewhat the appearance 
of being coated with molasses. Serve up the gi"a\y with 
it. What is left of the meat, may be sliced cold for break- 
fast and luncheon. 

PORK OLIVES. 

Soyer. 

Cut slices from a fillet or leg of cold fresh pork. • Make 
a forcemeat in the usual manner, only substituting for 
sweet herbs, some sage-leaves chopped fine. TMien the 
slices are covered with the forcemeat, and rolled up and 
tied round, stew them slowly either in cold gravy left of 
the pork or in fresh lard. Drain them well before they 
go to table. Serve them up on a bed of mashed turnips 
or potatoes. 

pig's feet and ears. 

CasseU's Dictiovxiry of Cookery. 

Clean and soak the feet and ears, and boil them in 
water until they are tender. Split the feet in halves, 
draw out the bones, and press them between two dishes 
until they are cold and stifl". Cut the ears into strips half 
an inch wide and set them also aside. When they are to 
be served dissolve two ounces of fresh butter and ndx 
smoothly with it a tea.spoonful of flour. Slice two good 
sized onions and stew them in the mixture until they are 
tender ; put in the eai-s, and when they are hot stir in with 
them a teaspoonful of mixed mustard. Turn the whole 
upon a hot dish and keep it in a warm place. Dip the 
feet into clarified butter and seasoned bread crumbs, and 



114 The Canadian Economist. 

• 

boil over a clear fire. Put them on the dish with the 

ears, &c. and serve as hot as possible. 

pig's fry. 

CasseU's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Procure a fresh pig's fry. Wash it well and dry it, 
then cut it into slices the third of an inch in thickness. 
Butter a baking-dish, cover the bottom with a layer of 
the lean slices, and sprinkle over them a little powdered 
sage, minced onions, pepper and salt ; place sliced pota- 
toes on these and then a layer of fat slices with a little 
more seasoning, and sliced potatoes over the whole. Fill 
the diih with boiling stock or water, mixed smoothly 
with a small portion of flour and bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve very hot. Time to bake — two hours and a half. 
Sufiicient for three or four persons. 

GLAZE FOR HAMS. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Take a small quantity of clear brown soup and let it 
boil very fast till it becomes thick, or if this is not at 
hand take about three or four tablespoonsf ul of the gravy 
from under dripping and simmer it for three or four hours 
with a little isinglass or gelatine in it till it becomes quite 
stitf. Apply while hot with a paste brush. In either case 
be careful it does not burn. 

PORK JELLY. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Salt a pig's feet and ears for two or three days, then 
put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover 
them and boil them quickly for several hours till the meat 
leaves the bones. Ihen take them out, throw away the 
bones and cut the meat into very small pieces as if for a 



Toasted Rashers of Bacon. 115 

mince. After this has been done put it all back again 
into the saucepan with a little pepper. This must now be 
boiled very slowly till it becomes thick and almost a jelly ; 
then put it into a shape and turn out when cold. A little 
mace, sage and parsley, chopped veri/ fine, may be added 
to flavour it if liked ; but if so the herbs must only be 
added at the last, as if boiled they give a gi-eenish hue to 
the jelly. Calf's feet or cow heels dressed in the same 
way make a very light and nourishing jelly. 

TOASTED RASHERS OF BACON. 

Cookery Made Easy. 

New bacon, that is freshly-cured bacon, should always be 
procured for toasting, it is nicer and much more nourishing 
than old dry bacon. If you like ii fat the ribs or back 
part is the best ; but if you like it pretty lean, the cushion 
is by far the best ; the whole of the thick part of the 
cushion will cut into fine rashers ; they should be cut 
about one-sixth of an inch thick. Before you toast rashers 
of bacon, always cut off the rind and also the outside of 
the bottom ; when so done, lay them in a small dish before 
the tire for about five minutes, on one side, then turn 
them and do them five minutes on the other side, taking 
care to catch all the gravy which drops from it in the 
dish, and serve it up in the same dish gravy and all ; for 
when the rind and bottom is cut off before you put it 
down to toast, all the gravy which drops from it is nice, 
and clear, and nourishing. Many families have the bacon 
and gravy served up with bread, merely on account of 
its superior healthiness, to bread and butter or buttered 
toast, for breakfast. To fry bacon in a fryingpan is the 
most wasteful way it can be dressed, and is now considered 
to be both vulgar and discreditable. Cold bacon cut into 
slices a quarter of an inch thick, with a little crust of 
bread grated over them and laid in a cheese-toaster before 
the fire till they axe brown on both sides, are very good 



116 The Canadian Economist, 

for breakfast ; about three minutes for eacb side will be 
enough for them, with a bright fire. 

HAM TOAST. 

Invalid's Cook. 

When a ham gets unsightly for the table, take off as 
much of it as you require, and mince it up very finely. 
To one pint of mince put two tablespoonsful of cream or 
new milk ; boil it five minutes, and have well buttered 
toast ready to lay it upon at the end of that time. Then 
strew bread crumbs, with which a little parsley has been 
mixed, on the top and brown it over with a salamander, 
or in the oven. 

PORK JELLY. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Salt a pig's feet and ears for two or three days ; then 
put them into a saucepan, with sufficient water to cover 
them, and boil them quickly for several hours till the 
meat leaves the bone; then take them out, throw away 
the bones, and cut the meat into very small pieces, as if 
for a mince ; after this has been done, put it all back again 
into the saucepan with a little pepper ; this must now 
be boiled very slowly, till it becomes thick, and almost a 
jelly ; when, put into a shape and turn out when cold ; 
a little mace, s;ige, and parsley, chopped very fine, may be 
added to flavour it, if liked ; but if so the herbs must 
only be added at the last, as if boiled they give a greenish 
hue to the jelly. Calf's feet or cow heels, dressed in the 
same way, make a light and very nourishing jelly. 

TO FRY HAM. 

True Guide to Housekeeping. 

Cut a liam through the middle, then you get the fat 
and lean in good proportions; lay it on your pan or 



THpe Fried. 117 

spider, and cover it so that it ma}' cook tender in the 
steam. When nearl}^ done, let it finish open, that the 
steam may evaporate, and that it may brown slightly. 

FRIED SALT PORK. 

True Guide to Housekeeping. 

Fried salt pork and apples is a favourite dish in the 
country, but it is seldom seen in the city. After the pork 
is fi-ied, some of the fat should be taken out lest the 
apples should be oily ; acid apples should be chosen be- 
cause they cook more easily ; they should be cut in slices 
a-cross the whole apple about two or three times as thick 
as a new dollar. Fried till tender, and brown on both 
sides, laid around the pork. If you have cold potatoes, 
slice and brown them in the same way. 

TO BROIL HAM. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

Ham should be sliced thin and done over a quick fire ; 
sometimes ham is too salty, in which case you should 
soak in plenty of hot water before boiling. When this 
is done, care must be taken to dry the ham well from the 
water. 

TRIPE FRIED. 

Little Dinners. 

Stew a pound of tripe in well-seasoned stock; when 
perfectly tender, cut it into neat square pieces ; then fry 
a light brown in a little butter, and season with pepper 
and salt ; cut a pound of onions in slices, fry a nice brown, 
and then simmer them until very tender in a little of the 
liquor in which the tripe was stewed; when they are 
done, put the tripe with them into the stewpan, add a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley and one of vinegar; 



118 The Canadian Economist. 

simmer together for a minute and send to table imme- 
diately. 

WHITE TRIPE. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Put half a pound in a stew pan, with a quarter of a 
pint of water, a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and 
two minced onions ; let it simmer gently for two hours, 
or until perfectly tender ; then strain the gravy, take off 
every particle of fat, boil it up and thicken it with a 
dessertspoonful of flour mixed smooth in two or three 
tablespoonsful of cream or milk. Put the tiipe back into 
this sauce and let it simmer gently for a quarter of an 
hour. To stew tripe brown, put it into beef tea or good 
gravy instead of water, and thicken it with flour mixed 
smooth in gravy. Lemon juice or a few drops of French 
vinegar are good additions to tripe. 

TRIPE ROASTED. 

Warne's Domestic Cookery. 

Some pieces of tripe, some forcemeat, a little flour, some 
butter ; cut the tripe into good sized pieces and spread 
some forcemeat over them ; roll them up securely, and 
tie them upon a small spit, or roast them upon a cradle 
spit ; flour and baste them with butter, and serve them 
up garnished with lemon fn slices and melted butter. 

TRIPE BROILED. 

GasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take two pounds of perfectly clean dressed tripe. If 
there be time, soak it in milk for some hours before boil- 
ing, and if it should happen that the milk turns sour, the 
acidity which the tripe will thus acquire, will improve it 
rather than otherwise. If the tripe cannot be soaked, 
wash it in cold water, then cut it into pieces about three 



Fricasseed Tripe. 119 

inches long and two broad ; put it into a sauc^an, and 
cover with equal parts of cold milk and water ; let it boil, 
then add three moderate sized onions, a tablespoonful of 
salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper-corns; cover the 
pan closely, and simmer the tripe gently until tender ; 
lift out the onions, mince them finely and "press them 
through a coarse siev-e ; mix with them as much melted 
butter, made with milk instead of water, as will make a 
thick sauce, and serve the tripe on a hot dish with the 
same poured over it, or if prefen-ed, the sauce may be 
served separately in a tureen. Some cooks flavour the 
sauce with mustard and a little vinegar. 

TRIPE FOR INVALIDS. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take half a pound of freshly-dressed tripe ; wash it and 
cut into squares and remove almost all the fat ; cut up half 
a pound of lean beef in the same way, and put both into 
a stew pan with half a pint of cold water, half a spoonful 
of mustard, a small lump of sugar and a little salt ; bring 
the liquor to the boil, skim carefully, then draw the sauce- 
pan to the side and let its contents simmer gently for 
three hours ; mix a teaspoonful of corn flour to a smooth 
paste with about a tablespoonful of cold water ; stir this 
into the sauce and boil it gently for a few minutes ; put 
the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it and sei-ve. 

FRICASSEED TRIPE. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take about two pounds of tripe;' cut it into pieces 
about three inches long and two broad ; wash it in cold 
water and dry it in a cloth ; put it into a stewpan ; cover 
with equal parts of milk and water ; add two onions and 
a bunch of pai-sley, and simmer genti}^ for an hour ; rub 
an ounce of butter smoothly with a little flour ; moisten 



120 The Canadian Economist. 

with a quarter of a pint of cream and stir it into the sauce ; 
add the thin rind of half a lemon, a little pepper and salt, 
and the eighth part of a grated nutmeg ; then simmer for 
another hour ; put the tripe into a hot dish ; take the 
sauce from the fire, stir a lump of butter into it, till it is 
dissolved, And pour it over the tripe. In stewing tripe 
be careful that it does not burn. 

TONGUE. 

Economical Cook Booh. 

If the tongue is dry, let it soak several hours before 
boiling it slowly; if just out of pickle, the water should 
boil when it goes in. A tongue presser soon saves itself 
in making the small end go farther, and causing no waste. 

FRESH ox TONGUE. 

CasseWs Dictionary of Coohery. 

Put the tongue on the fire in cold water, simmer slowly 
till tender, and then remove the skin. JVlelt two ounces 
of butter in a stewpan ; dust in a tablespoonful of flour 
and as much grated bread as the butter will take up and 
brown. Mince small a few rashers of bacon, do the same 
with an onion, and add them to the sauce with the juice 
of a lemon and a slice of its peel. Thin the sauce with a 
little broth or water in which the tongue was boiled. 
Lay in the tongue, sprinkle with salt, cover, and let it 
simmer slowly for an hour, 

TONGUE BOILED. 

CasselVs Dictionat^ of CooJcet^. 

If the tongue is dried, soak it for twelve hours ; if 
taketl fresh from the pickle, an hour or two will be suffi- 
cient. Put the tongue into cold water and let it come 
slowly to the boil. Remove the scum carefully, and sim- 



To^igue Baked. 121 

mer the tongue gently fill done enough. Its n^our will 
be improved if two or three large caiTois and a large 
bunch of savoury herbs be added to the liquor after the 
scum is removed. When the tongue is quite tender, so 
that it can be easily probed with a skewer, and so that 
the skin can be easily peeled off, take it up, remove the 
skin, and if it is to be eaten cold, pass a large carving fork 
through the root end, and by means of this fasten it on a 
board. Pass another and smaller fork through the tip, 
and diaw the tongue straight before fixing it in the board. 
Let it remain untouched until quite cold, trim neatly, 
glaze it, and then wrap a nicely-cut frill of tissue paper 
round the root, which is a little unsighth^. Garnish the 
dish with parsley. If the tongue is to be eaten hot, take 
off the skin, wrap it in a sheet of oiled paper and put it in 
the boiling liquor for a quarter of an hour before ser^^ng 
it, to make it quite hot. Garnish the dish with Brussels- 
sprouts, cauliflowers, dressed spinach, or any other vege- 
tables, and send tomato or piquant sauce to table with it. 
A large smoked tongue, four hours and a half; unsmoked, 
three houi-s and a half. 

TONGUE BAKED. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take a tongue fresh from the pickle, wash and soak it, 
and put it in a dish just large enough for it. Put little 
pieces of butter here and there upon it, cover with a com- 
mon crust of flour and water, and bake in a moderate 
oven until it is quite tender. Remove the fun-ed coating 
or skin, and fasten the tongue down to a piece of board 
by sticking one or two strong skewei-s through the root, 
and one through the tip, so as to hold the tongue in an 
erect and elegant form until it is quite cold. If to be 
eaten cold, glaze it, trim the root, put a paper frilling 
round the root to hide its unsighthness, and serve gar- 
nished with parsley. If to be eaten hot, serve the tongue 



122 The Canadian Economist. 

on a hot ^ish, with Brussels-sprouts, cauliflower, or other 
vegetables round it. Time to bake, three or four hours, 
according to size. 

CARVING OF TONGUE. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Coohery. 

Begin to take slices, not too thin, from the middle of 
the tongue, and afterwards cut slices from each side, being 
careful not to cut quite through the tongue. The extreme 
tip is usually left and used for grating. A little of the 
fat should be put upon each plate. When the tongue is 
rolled it should be cut in very thin slices horizontally. 

ROLLED TONGUE. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take a large ox-tongue. If dry, soak it in plenty of 
cold water before dressing it ; if fresh from the pickle, 
soak it for two or throe hours only. Put it into a large 
stewpan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury 
herbs; bring it slowly to the boil, remove the scum as it 
rises, and simmer gently until tender. Take off the skin, 
which will come off easily if the tongue is sufficiently 
dressed ; trim the roots, remove the bones, and press the 
tongue fat inwards, into a round tin just large enough to 
hold it. Put a dish with a weight upon it, and let it re- 
main until cold. Turn it out, glaze it, or tie a napkin 
neatly round it and garnish with tufts of parsley. A 
smoked tongue, four hours and a half ; unsmoked, three 
hours and a half. 

THE VALUE OF VINEGAR IN ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

The value of vinegar in economical cookery may be 
tested by the use of the following receipt : — Take some 
meat from the coarsest joints of the ox, such as the leg, 
shin, or sticking piece, cut it in slices of two or three 



Scrapple. 123 

ounces each, dip each piece in good vinegar, and ffien pack 
the whole in a stewpan with onions, turnips, or other 
vegetables, cut small, without water ; cover it closely, and 
let it stand by the side of the fire six or eight hours ; it 
will then be found to be thoroughly done, and to have 
yielded abundance of gray\% being at the same time re- 
markably tender. The only precaution necessar}' is that 
the heat should never be suffered to approach the boiling 
point. Or the meat, vegetables, and flavouring materials, 
may be placed in an earthenware jar which can be closely 
tied down, and then placed in a large saucepan of water, 
or very slow oven. This mode of cooking is applicable to 
any kind of meat, and will be found exceedingly econo- 
mical, giving little trouble and furnishing a very nutriti- 
ous, digestible, and delicious food. The acid of the vine- 
gar is entirely dissipated during the process. 

SOUSE. 

Economical Cook Book. 

Boil the feet of a pig till the bones come out easily, and 
pick out all the bones ; pack them in a pan with pepper 
and salt and cover it with vinegar or not as you choose. 
Fry in lard for dinner. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Economical Cook Book. 

Take a pig's haslet and as much offal, lean and fat pork 
as you wish to make scrapple ; boil them well together in a 
small quantity of water until they are tender ; chop them 
fine after taking them out of the liquor, season as sausage ; 
then skim off the fat that has arisen when the meat was 
boiled, to niake all soft ; throw away the rest of the water 
and put this altogether in the pot ; thickening it with half 
buckwheat and half Indian meal ; let it boil up and pour 
out in pans to cool. Slice and fry it in sausage fat, after 
the sausage is done. 



124 The Canadian Economist. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Economical Cook Booh. 

Boil in salted water the ears, skin and feet of pigs, till 
the meat drops off, chop like sausage ; season with pepper, 
salt, cloves and herbs ; mix all together, put it under pres- 
sure to cool. Cut in slices for the table cold. 

SOUSE. 

Miss Beecher. 

Cleanse pig's ears and feet, and soak them a week in salt 
and water, changing the water every other day. Boil 
eight or ten hours till tender. When cold put on salt and 
hot spiced vinegar. Fry them in lard. 

COLD MEAT TURNOVERS. 

Miss Beecher. 

Roll out wheat dough very thin and put in it, like a 
turnover, cold meat chopped fine and seasoned with pep])er, 
salt, catsup, and sweet herbs. Make small ones and fiy 
them in lard till the dough is well cooked. 

COOKING COLD HAM. 

Miss Beecher. 

Cut up all the bits and ends, put them in a frying or 
saucepan, with very little water and some butter ; when 
warmed through break in some eggs and stir them up with 
the ham until the egg is hardened. 



CHAPTER IX. 
TO ROAST A FILLET OF VEAL. 

Bow Bells. 

A GOOD forcemeat for veal may be made in the follow- 
ing manner: — Four ounces of crumbs of bread, mixed 
with a quarter of an ounce of lemon-rind, minced small ; 
some pai-sley, a little thyme, nutmeg, salt and pepper, suffi- 
cient to season properly. Add to these two ounces of butter, 
and the unbeaten yolk of one egg. Work the whole well 
together. Take the bone out of the joint of veal, and put 
a quantity of the forcemeat under the flap, secure it well, 
truss the veal firmly into good shape, place it at a distance 
from the fire at first, and baste with butter. Pour melted 
butter over it after it is dished, and serve with a boiled 
cheek of bacon and a lemon. 

TEAL. 

True Guide to House-keeping. 

The shoulder of veal is the most economical for roast" 
ing or boiling. It is always cheap, let veal be what price 
it may. Two dinnei's may be made from it, the shoulder 
roasted, and the knuckle cut off to be boiled with a bit of 
pork and greens, or to be made into soup. The breast of 
veal is a favourite piece, and is sold higher. The whitest 
veal is the most juicy and therefore preferable. The hind 
quarter of veal and the loin make two good roasting 
pieces. The leg is usually stuffed. The loin has the kid- 
ney upon it, the fore-quarter the brisket on it. This is a 



126 Tfie Canadian Economist. 

sweet and delicate morsel ; for this reason some people 
prefer the fore-quarter to any other part. A fillet of veal 
is the thick part of the leg, and is to be cut smooth, round 
and close to the bone. Some prefer the outside piece. A 
little fat cut from the skirt is to be served to each plate. 

FKIED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Mrs. H. F. Branson, Ottawa. 

Take half-a-pint of milk and a well-beaten egg and 
flour enough to make a batter. Fry the veal, brown in 
some sweet lard, then dip it in the butter and fry again 
till brown. Put in a little butter to fry after the veal 
is taken up and put on top of the veal. Then put a 
little flour-paste into the gravy, adding salt and pepper, 
and after one boil pour it over the whole. The veal should 
be cut quite thin and should cook nearly an hour in the 
whole. 

VEAL STUFFING. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottaiva. 

Chop half a pound of suet, put it into a basin with 
three-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs, a teaspoonful 
of salt, one of pepper, a little thyme or lemon-peel chopped, 
three whole eggs, mix well and use. 

MINCED VEAL. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottaiva. 

Any remains of roast veal may be quickly dressed to good 
advantage as follows : — By the aid of the fryingpan. Cut 
all the meat and fat oft' the joint into small dice. Cut 
three ounces of fat to every pound of lean. When cut, 
put a pound of it on a dish, add to it a teaspoonful of salt, 
half a one of pepper, two spoonsful of flour and a chopped 
onion. Put in the pan half-a-pint of water to boil, two 
teaspoonsful of colouring, then put the meat in, stir it. 



VeaZ Cvilets for the Aged. 127 

Let it simmer orentlv for twenty minutes and sei"ve on 
toast. Poached eggs on it are very good, or put the 
mince into a tin pan, bread-crumb over, drop a little but- 
ter or dripping over, then put it in the oven, and the mince 
may be made white by using milk instead of water. 

FILLET OF VEAL. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottavja. 

A small fillet of veal boned and stuffed, tie it up tight, 
and put some fat into a fryingpan, put in the fillet and 
fry gently until one side is browTi, then put on the 
other side until brown, and fry in the same pan some 
onions, turnips and carrots. Cut in pieces, put the 
fillet into a pan with a piece of fat bacon, at the bot- 
tom fill up round with the vegetables, put another piece 
of bacon on the top, add some seasoning to the vegetables 
and a pint of water. Put it on a slow fire, giving a quar- 
ter-of-an-hour for each pound weight. When served take 
out the fillet, put the gi'avy into a small basin and skim 
off the fat, pour the gravy over the veal and serve the 
vegetables. A little browning is an improvement. 

VEAL CUTLETS FOR THE AGED. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottawa. 

Cut one pound of veal in eight pieces. Season with a 
teaspoonful of salt, a grain of pepper, and a little chopped 
parsley, then take each piece separately, and with the 
back of a knife, beat them well, till nearly in a pulp. 
Give them the shape of cutlets with a knife, egg and 
bread crumb, beat them nice and smooth, put two ounces 
of lard in the fryingpan, when very hot, fry a nice colour. 
Serve plain. These may be done as a general dish by 
adding a little fried bacon and chopped onions in the fry- 
ingpan. They are extremely tender and full of gravy. 



128 The Canadian Economist 

BROWN RAGOUT OF YEAL. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottawa. 

Take tenpounds of the breast, cut into rather small pieces. 
Roll them well in flour. Put some dripping in the frying- 
pan. Fry the meat until a nice brown. Take this out and 
fry four onions, two turnips, and one carrot, cut in dice. 
When brown take them out, put the veal and vegetables 
into the pan, season with two teaspoonsful of salt and 
one of pepper, add a pint of water to which has been 
added four teaspoonsful of brownings, a few herbs and a 
little ham or bacon. A small teaspoonful of sugar is an 
improvement. Put it into the oven for an hour. 

MARBLED VEAL. 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte. 

Having boiled and skinned two fine tongues, cut them 
to pieces and pound them in a mortar, moistening them 
with plenty of butter as you proceed. Have ready an 
equal quantity of veal stewed and cut into very small 
pieces ; pound the veal also in a mortar, adding butter by 
degrees. The tongue of veal may be kept separate till 
both have been pounded. Then fill your potting-pans 
with lumps of veal and tongue, press down hard, and so 
placed that when cut the mixture will look variegated or 
marbled. Close the cans with veal. Again press it down 
very hard ; finish by pouring on clarified butter. Cover 
the cans closely and keep them in a dry place. 

MINCED VEAL. 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte. 

Take some cold veal, cut it into slices, and mince it 
very fine with a chopping knife, season to your taste with 
pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg. Put the 
bones and trimmings into a saucepan with a little water, 



Sweetbreads Broiled. 129 

simmer them over hot coals to extract the gravy from 
them. Then put the veal into a stewpan, strain the 
gravy over it, add a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a 
little milk or cream. Let it simmer together till thor- 
oughly warmed, but do not allow it to boil, lest the meat 
having been boiled already, should become tasteless. 
When 3'ou serve it up, have ready some three cornered 
piec&s of bread toasted and buttered ; place them all 
around the inside of dish. 

VEiJi CUTLETS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Dip in beaten eggs when you have sprinkled pepper 
and salt over them ; then roll in crficker crumbs and fry 
in hot dripping or lard. If you use butter or dripping 
add a little boiling water to the gravy when the meat is 
dished ; thicken with browned flour, boil up once, sending 
to table in a boat. 

SWEETBREADS (FRIED). 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Wash very carefully, and diy with a linen cloth. Lard 
with narrow strips of fat salt pork, set closely together. 
Use for this purpose a larding needle. Lay the sweet- 
breads in a clean, hot fryingpan, which has been well 
buttered or greased, and cook to a tine brown, turning 
frequently until the pork is crisp. 

SWEETBREADS (BROILED). 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Parboil ; rub them well with butter, and broil on a clean 
gridiron. Turn frequently, and now and then roll over 
in a plate containing some hot melted butter. This will 
prevent them getting too dry and hard, 
9 



180 The Canadian Economist. 

SWEETBREADS (rOASTED). 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Parboil, and throw into cold water, where let them 
stand for fifteen minutes. Then change to more cold 
water for five minutes longer. Wipe perfectly dry. Lay 
them in your dripping-pan and roast, basting with butter 
and water until they begin to brown. Then withdraw 
them for an instant, roll in beaten eggs, then in cracker- 
crumbs and return to the fire for ten minutes longer, bast- 
ing meanwhile with melted butter, twice. Lay in a chaf- 
fing dish while you add to the dripping half a cup of hot 
water, some chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of browned 
flour and the juice of half a lemon. Pour over the sweet- 
breads before sending to table. 

JELLIED VEAL, 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Wash a knuckle of veal, and cut it into three pieces. 
Boil it slowly unt.l the meat will slip easil}; from the 
bones ; take out of the liquor. Remove all the bones and 
chop the meat fine. Season with salt, pepper and shalots, 
chopped fine as possible, mace and thyme, or, if you like, 
sage. Put back into the liquor and boil until it is almost 
dry and can be stirred with difiiculty. Turn into a mould 
until next day. Set on the table cold, garnish with 
parsley, and cut in slices. The juice of a lemon, stirred 
just before it is taken from the tire, is an improvement. 

MINCED VEAL AND MACARONI. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Three-quarter pound of minced cold roast A'eal,a quarter- 
pound of liam, a tablespoonful of gravy, pepper and salt, 
a quarter tea^poonlul of grated nutmeg, a quarter pound 
of bread-cnuiils, a quarter pound of macaroni, one or 



Baked Calf's Feet 131 

two eggs, a small piece of butter — mix the minced veal 
with the above propoi-tion of ham, season w^ith pepper 
and salt, add the nutmeg and bread-crumbs, and mix 
these ingredients with one or two eggs, w^ell beaten, 
which should bind the mixture, and make it like force- 
meat. Boil the macaroni in salt and water, drain it, 
butter a mould, put some of the macaroni at the bottom 
and sides of it, in whatever form is liked. Mix the rest 
with the forcemeat, fill the mould up to the top, put a 
plate or small dish on it, and steam for half-an-hour. 
Turn it out and serve with good giavy. 

S\VEETBREADS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Select some fine, white, sweetbreads, put them in a 
bowl, and pour boiling water over them ; let them stand 
for ten minutes, take them out, dry them, and spreg^d flat 
upon a platter and send to the cellar till Avanted. When 
that time arrives, take one or more. Prepare the frying- 
pan by putting it on the fire till hot, then put into it 
a small bit of butter, about the size of a walnut, let it 
get quite hot, and then put in the sweetbread, and let it 
fry till brown. Have two saucei-s, one with a beaten-up 
Qg^ in it, another with flour or bread-crumbs, sufticient to 
roll the sweetbreads in, which do, first in the flour and 
then in the egg saucer. Put in the pan again and fry 
till done. 

BAKED calf's FEET. 

Invalid's Cook. 

After having well cleaned two calf's feet, put tliem in 
an earthen jar with three pints of milk and water (the 
milk should be new), a few strips of lemon-peel, and a 
blade of mace or small stick of cinnamon, cover the jar 
down closely, and bake the feet for four hours in a 
moderate oven. Take ofi" the fat when cold, and -warm 
when wanted. 



132 The Canadian Economist. 

VEAL ROLLS. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Cut some thin slices from a fillet of veal. On each of 
these slices lay a thin slice of fat bacon and a layer of 
forcemeat. Roll these slices up tight into pieces about 
two inches long and two fingers thick, keeping the force- 
meat well in the middle, and then fasten each roll with a 
skewer — a very small one. Dip each roll into the yolk 
of an egg, and sprinkle well with bread-crumbs, after 
which fry or bake them till done, a light brown colour, 
and serve with a good gravy and some forcemeat balls. 

FRICANDETTE. 

Invalid's Cook. 

One pound and a half of veal and fat bacon chopped 
very fine ; two eggs, a slice of bread, soaked in cream or 
new milk, a little salt and cayenne pepper. Mix these 
ingredients w^ell together; make them up into cakes, 
three-quarter of an inch thick, and fry them a light brown 
in butter or good lard ; butter though is best. For sauce 
the juice of a lemon squeezed into some butter, with two 
spoonsful of thick cream. 

BOLARDE OF VEAL. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Take a breast of veal, bone it, lay the boned part up 
and then put on the following ingredients, according to 
taste : A few slices of lean ham or tongue, some good 
forcemeat, three hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and a seasoning 
of salt, pepper, chopped suet, and finely mixed sweet 
herbs. Roll the veal as tightly round as you can, and tie 
it with string. Put a cloth round it, which tie at both 
ends, and then boil it gently for four hours. Glaze it 
when cold. 



Plain Veal Cutlets. 133 

SEASONED CUTLETS. 

Invalid's Cook, 

Take a slice of meat from the best end of a leg of veal, 
and make it into cutlets. Sprinkle them with salt and 
white pepper ; ari-ange them flat round a small frying 
pan, and pour over them two ounces of good fresh butter, 
which has been dissolved in a clean saucepan over a gentle 
fii-e. Now fry them over a bright clear fire for about ten 
minutes, or till they are lightly browned, and quite done. 
Then put them into a hot dish and pour over them a good 
gi-avy flavoured with lemon-juice and a little cayenne 
pepper. Garnish with forcemeat balls. 

VEAL MARSDEN. 

How to Stei'j Meat in a hundred dif event ways. 

Butter a pie dish ; completely line it with sliced hard- 
boiled eggs ; fill it with sliced veal, ham or tongue, and 
pickles ari-anged alternately in layers ; pour in as much 
rich gravy as the dish will hold ; bake for twenty min- 
utes ; let the whole stand for a little while, then turn out 
to serve. 

PLAIN VEAL CUTLETS. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Take a slice of meat, about three-quarters of an inch 
thick, from the best end of a leg of veal. Beat it well 
with a rolling-pin, and then sliape and trim the cutlets 
nicely to about the size of the bottom of a wine-glass. 
Flour them well and fry them over a not too fierce fire for 
about a quarter of an hour, till they are of a good light 
brown colour and thoroughly done. When done put them 
on a hot dish, and keep them, hot while you make some 
gravy and put over them, and which is to be made thus : 
Fii-st, pour away what fat is left in the pan, and then 
melt in it a slice of fresh butter. When melted dredge 



134 27(6 Canadian Economist 

into the butter a dessertspoonful of flour, and keep it 
shaken till coloured. Then pour in gently a cup of gravy 
(or boiling water if you have none), a little pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice. Boil it all up well, and pour immedi- 
ately over the cutlets, which may be garnished with a 
few rashers of bacon or forcemeat balls. 

FILLETS OF VEAL. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Take some cold roast veal and cut it into thin slices ; 
make a sauce with some butter I'olled in flour, parsley, 
chives, shalots, the whole chopped small and seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Let it thicken over the Are ; add 
the juice of a lemon. . Put in the fillets to warm, without 
boiling and serve. 

VEAL. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Veal six weeks or two months old is the most esteemed, 
if less it has neither taste nor savour ; if older, it is not so 
delicate. The best season is from May to September. 

GRILLED calf's LIVER. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Cut the liver into thin slices, wdiich put on the gridiron, 
sprinkling them with salt and pepper and turning them 
occasionally. Take them ofl" before they are much done, 
and serve by two slices, the one over the other, buttering 
between each a piece of butter rolled in chopped parsley. 

calf's LIVER. 

French Domestic Cookery. 

Cut the liver into slices and put them into a stew-pan 
with mixed parsley and chives, and a piece of butter ; 
place it on the fire and put in a spoonful of flour ; add 9-1- 



To Fricassee a Breast of Veal. 135 

so with some broth a spoonful of vinegar, some salt, pep- 
per and spice. Let them stew ten minutes altogether 
and serve. 

ROAST calf's liver, 

French Domestic Cookei^. 

Lard the liver, and let it marinade four hours in pars- 
ley, chives, bay-leaves, thyme, salt, and two spoonsful of 
oil or cream. Then take it out and cover it with thin 
slices of bacon or a sheet of paper, buttered. Roast it 
about an hour ; serve in a sauce-boat the gravy from the 
meat, with chopped shalots, two spoonsful of broth, salt, 
pepper and fine herbs. 

BROILED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Cut and beat them, rub them all over with a beaten 
egg ; season them with salt and the gi"ate of a lemon, 
strew some crumbs of bread over them on both sides; pour 
a little oiled sweet butter over them ; lay every cutlet 
in clean white paper, broil them on a clear fire, turning them 
often until they are done enough, take off the paper and 
dish them ; for sauce, send up some beat batter, ketchup, 
and the squeeze of a lemon in a sauce-boat. 

TO FRICASEE A BREAST OF VEAL. 

Old Cookery Book. 

Cut down the ribs of the breast, break them into short 
pieces and wash them very clean ; let them lie some time 
in water to blanch. You may put in a little milk or 
flour to help to whiten the meat ; then put it into a clase 
goblet with boiling water ; put in a tied bunch of parsley, 
a blade of mace, and some lemon peel with it ; let the 
meat boil tender ; beat some yolks of eggs and mix a little 
gre?im ; spme sjilt^ the scrape of a nutmeg and the sq^ueeze 



130 lh& Canadian Economist 

of a lemon with them; thicken some of the broth the 
meat is boiled in with a very little sweet butter, hnead in 
flour and, when it boils, stir it in gradually among the 
eggs; take the meat quite away from the broth and put 
it into the saucepan, pour the sauce until it thickens. Bi t 
be sure never to let anything come to a boil that eggs aie 
in, else it will curdle the sauce. 

VEAL LTVER PATE. 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Take as much veal liver as you are likely to want, and 
white bacon equaJ^ to two-thirds of the weight of the liver, 
chop them together and put them into a bowl, season 
with pepper, salt, allspice and parsley chopped small ; add 
chopped onion that has been browned in the frying-pan 
in butter, a slice of ham minced small, and three or four 
egg-yolks, mix all M'ell together with a wooden spoon. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth and incorporate 
them with the rest ; line the sides and bottom of a stew- 
pan or metal mould with very thin slices of bacon, then put 
in the minced liver, &c., cover all with thin sliced bacon 
and put on the lid, set it into a gentle oven and let it cook 
gradually but thoroughly, when done, take it out and let 
it cool ; W'lien cold, turn the patd out of the stewpan or 
mould on to the dish on which it is to remain, as a stand- 
ing resource, as long as it lasts. 

BOAST VEAL (rE-COOKED). 

Little Dinners. 

Cut the veal in thin slices, and spread over each a little 
of the remaining stufhng : pepper, salt and flour lightly. 
Then make a batter with two eggs well beaten, a pinch 
of dried parsley, pepper and salt, half a pint of skimmed 
milk, four tablespoonsful of flour ; put an ounce of butter 
into the pan, let it boil, pour in the batter like a thick 



Veal Siveethreads Larded. 137 

pancake, then lay in the middle, one on the other, the 
slices of meat ; fry slowly ten minutes, shaking the pan 
to prevent burning ; then turn up the edges of the pan- 
cake over the meat and turn it over on the other side ; 
fry another five minutes, and then with a slice put the 
cake on to its dish. Pour over it a little rich gravy, in 
which any peas, French beans, or other nice vegetables 
have been warmed and serve immediately. This dish 
looks veiy pretty and is delicious. 

FRICASSEE OF KNUCKLE OF VEAL. 

Little Dinners. 

Cut the meat remaining on a cold knuckle into thick 
slices and having cleared the bone, set it to boil for two 
hours in three jnnts of water ; it will then give half a 
pint of good lich gravy ; take the fat of it and add an 
equal quantity of milk in which two onions have been 
stewed ; rub these to pulp, use it with flour to thicken the 
gi-avy, season nicely, put in your pieces of veal with any 
of the gelatinous morsels and let them simmer for an hour, 
then serve with toast sippets or fried bread. The bones 
will again bear boiling, and should yield a pot of strong 
jelly. 

VKA.L SWEETBREADS STEWED. 

Book of the Household. 

Parboil them, and stew them with white gravy; add 
cream, flour, nutmeg, butter, salt and white pepper. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS LARDED. 

Book of the Household. 

Parboil two or three sweetbreads, and when they are 
cold lard them down the middle with little bits of bacon, 
on each side bits of lemon peel, and beyond that with a 
little pickled cucumber, cut very small. Stew them gently 



138 The Canadian Economist. 

in rich gravy, thicken with a little flour, add mushroom 
powder, cayenne, salt, and if necessary, a little lemon 
juice. 

VEAL SAUSAGES. 

Booh of the Household. 

Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a 
handful of sage, and a few anchovies ; beat all in a mor- 
tar, and season well with pepper and salt. When wanted 
for use, roll and fry it, and serve either with fried sippets, 
or on stewed vegetables, or white collops. 

VPAL STEWED AVITH APPLES. 

Tlte Home Cook Book. 

Rub a stewpan with butter ; cut the meat in thin slices, 
and put in with pepper, salt, and apple, sliced fine ; some 
would add a little onion. Cover it tight and stew till 
tender. 

VEAL PIE WITH SAUSAGE. 

CasseU's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take some cutlets, half an inch thick, from the fillet of 
veal. Season these pepper, salt arid powdered mace, and 
fill a dish with alternate layers of the cutlet and Bologna 
sausage thinly sliced. The veal will yield sufficient gravy 
to moisten the pie. Cover with good pastry, and bake in 
the usual way. This pie is excellent eaten cold. 

VEAL PLUCK. 

CasseU's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take a calf 's heart, with the liver and lights : wash the 
heart in several waters, let it soak for half an hour, drain 
and dry it, fill it with good veal forcemeat, tie thin slices 
of fat bacon around it, and roast or bake it. Soak the 
liver and lights, boil them for an hour, and mince them, 



Veal Pie. 139 

Put this mince into a stew pan with a little pepper and 
salt, the thin rind of half a lemon, half a blade of mace 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Cover with gravy and let 
it simmer gently till done enough. Season with pepper 
and salt, and add a table-spoonful of chopped pai-sley, one of 
catsup, and a little strained lemon juice. Slice the remain- 
der of the liver, and fry in the usual way. Place the 
mince upon a dish, put the heart upon it, and garnish the 
dish with fried liver, fried rashers of bacon, toasted sip- 
pets and parsley. Serve very hot, and send good brown 
gravy to table with it. Time one hour and a-half to roast 
the heart, half an hour to simmer the mince in the gravy. 

VEAL PUDDING (BAKED). 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take half a pound of cold roast veal, carefully freed 
from skin, fat, and gristle, and finely minced; mix thor- 
oughly with it a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, 
a pinch of giated nutmeg, and the grated rind of half a 
lemon. Pour half a pint of nicely flavoured boiling gravy, 
(made by stewing the trimmings of the veal in water), 
over two ounces of finely grated bread-crumbs. Let this 
cool, and then stir into it the minced veal, and add three 
well beaten eggs. Whisk the mixture briskly for a min- 
ute or two, turn it into a well buttered dish, and bake in 
a moderate oven. If liked, the crumbs may be soaked in 
cream instead of gravy. Time to bake the pudding, one 
hour. 

VEAL PIE, 

Domestic Cookei'y. 

Cut a breast of veal into pieces, season them with pep- 
per and salt, and lay them in your dish. Boil six or eight 
eggs hard, take the yolks only, and put them into differ- 
ent places in the pie, then pour in as much water as will 
nearly fill the dish ; put on the lid and bake it well. A 
lamb pie must be done in the same way. 



140 The Canadian Economist. 

SWEETBREAD PIE. 

Domestic Cookei^y. 

Lay a pufF paste, half an inch thick, at the bottom of 
a dish, and put a forcemeat around the outsides. Cut some 
sweetbreads in pieces, three or four, according to the size 
the pie is intended to be made ; lay them in first, then 
some artichoke bottoms, cut into four pieces each, then 
some cock's-combs, a few truffles and some asparagus tops, 
and fresh mushrooms, yolks of eggs boiled hard, and force- 
meat balls ; season with pepper and salt. Almost fill the 
pie with w'ater, cover it and bake it U\\) hours. When it 
comes from the oven pour in some rich veal gravy, thick- 
ened with a very little cream and flour. 

calf's head. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Procure a calf's head ; let it soak in cold water, with 
a spoonful of vinegar and a little salt for two hours. Re- 
move the brain and tongue, put the head on with sufii- 
cient water to cover it, and a tablespoonful of salt ; when 
it has boiled ton minutes, pour away the liquor and again 
cover the head with water, add two onions with a clove 
stuck in each, a small bundle of parsley with a sprig of 
thyme tied up with it, a tablespoonful of white vinegar 
and a large tablespoonful of salt. Let all boil gently for 
two hours, or until the head is sufiiciently tender to slip 
off" the bones. Having removed them, lay the head on 
its dish, and cover either with rich brown gravy or white 
sauce. After the tongue, which can be boiled with the 
head, is skimmed, cut in small pieces and lay it on a 
separate dish ; place round it in little heaps, alternating 
with neat rolls of toasted bacon. The brains prepared as 
follows: Boil the brains very fast in a little liquor in 
which the head is cooked ; when quite firm chop them up, 
and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a 



Scolloped Veal. 141 

pinch of salt and pepper, a dessertspoonful of chopped 
parsley, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Stir over the fire 
until the butter is dissolved, then sprinkle in a dessert- 
spoonful of flour, again stir for five minutes and serve, 

calf's head cheese, 

Warne's Domestic Cookery. 

One calf's head, one tablespoonful of salt, one of pep- 
per, one of sweet herbs. Boil a calf's head in water 
enouf^h to cover it until the meat leaves the bones, then 
lift it out with a slice, take out the bones, and chop the 
meat very small ; season it with the salt, pepjier and 
sweet herbs chopped very fine. Lay a cloth in a colander, 
put the minced meat and the seasoning (well stined to- 
gether) into it, fold the cloth over it, put a trencher on 
the cloth and on that a good weight. When cold, it can 
be served in thin slices or for sandwiches, seasoning each 
slice with made mustard. 

TO ROAST A BREAST CF VEAL. 

Warne's Domestic Cookery. 

Take off the tendons froili a breast of veal, skewer the 
sweetbread to the joint, and cover it with buttered paper, 
place it to roast for an hour and a quai-ter, or according 
to its weight. Serve it with melted butter and gravy and 
sliced lemon. It can be roasted without the sweetbread 
which as well as the tendons will ser\'e for an entree, 

SCOLLOPED VEAL. 

Chop cold cooked veal fine, ])ut a layer in a baking-dish, 
alternating with a layer of powdered crackers, salt, pep- 
per, and butter until you fill the dish. Beat up two eggs, 
add a pot of milk, pour it over the veal and ci-ackers, 
cover with a plate and bake half an hour. Remove the 
plate and let the top brown. 



142 The Canadian Economist 

MINCED VEAL WITH POACHED EGGS. 

Take some remnants of roast or broiled veal, trim off all 
brown parts and mince very finely. Fry a chopped cha- 
lot in plenty of butter ; when it is a light straw colour, 
add a large pinch of flour and a little stock, then the 
minced meat with chopped parsley, pepper, salt and nut- 
meg, to taste ; mix well, add more stock if necessary, and 
let the mince gradually get hot by the side of the fire. 
When quite hot, stir into it, off" the fire, the yolk of an Q,gg 
and the juice of a lemon, to be strained and beaten up to- 
gether. Serve with sippits of bread fried in butter, round 
it, and three or four poached eggs on top. 

FRIED VEAL PATTIES. 

Mince a little cold veal and ham, allowing one-third 
ham and two-thirds veal ; add an egg, boiled hard and 
chopped, and a seasoning of pounded mace, salt, pepper 
and lemon-peel ; moisten with a little gi'avy and cream. 
Make a good puff" paste ; roll rather thin and cut it into 
square or round pieces; put the mince between two of 
them, pinch the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry a 
light brown. They may be also baked in patty-pans ; in 
that case they should be brushed over with the yolk of 
an egg before they are put in the oven. Fry the patties 
fifteen minutes, 

VEAL AND PORK PIE. 

For a medium sized pie have two pounds and a half of 
breast of veal and one pound and a half of salt pork, which 
is more delicate in a pie than ham or bacon. Cut the veal 
into five or six pieces, and let it stew very slowly for an 
hour with a quart of water, a head of celery, a small 
onion, thyme, parsley, and a bit of lemon peel. Turn 
out the veal, cut the meat from the bones in pieces of a 
convenient size for the pie, return the bones and pieces 
of gristle to the saucepan, season with pepper and salt, 



Curry Poivder. 143 

and let them and the gra\y stew thoroughly for many 
hours, until the gristle is quite soft throughout, as this 
gra\y should be strong enough to set into a firm jelly 
when cold. Make your pie, arranging the veal and pork 
in conveniently small pieces, add a sufiicient quantity of 
the gravy, reserving some of it, and finish and l>ake the 
pie. When it is taken from the ov^en, put a funnel to the 
hole in the centre of the crust, and carefully pour in gravy 
enough to fill up. A cold meat pie is very poor, if the 
gravy be liquid, instead of the well-flavoured firm jelly, 
which should till up all interstices. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS. 

Home Messenger. 

Veal sweet-breads spoil veiy soon. The moment they 
come from the butcher they should be put in cold water 
to soak for about an hour ; lard them or draw a lardoon 
of pork through the centre of each one ; put it into salt 
boiling water, or stock and let boil for fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; throw them into cold water for only a few 
moments, they will now be fii-m and white ; remove care- 
fully the skinny portions and pipes. 

CURRY POWDERS. 

One ounce of ginger, the same of coriander seed, half an 
ounceof cayenne pepperandtwoouncesof fine pale turmeric; 
these ingredients to be pounded separately to a fine pow- 
der and then warmed by the fire and mixed together. 
Put the powder into a wide-mouthed bottle, cork it well 
down and put it into a dry place. 

CURRY POWDER, No. 2. 

One ounce and a half of mustard seed, scorched and 
finely powdered ; four ounces of coriander seed pounded, 
four-and-a-half of turmeric, three ounces of black pepper, 
one ounce and a gi'ain of cayenne, one ounce of the lesser 



144 TJie Canadian Economist. 

cardamoms, half an oiince of fjinorer and one of cumin 
seed, all finely powdered. The flavour may be varied by 
the addition of all or any of the following ingredients — 
cinnamon, in powder, one ounce ; cloves, half an ounce ; 
mace, half an ounce. 

TO MAKE CURRY. 

For two pounds of any kind of meat fry one dessert- 
spoonful of the above powder with the same quantity of 
flour in some butter until they are of a light brown 
colour. Pour sufficient boiling v/ater into the frying-pan 
as will make the powder and flour into a stiff' paste, and 
then add one pint of strong beef gravy. Slice six large 
onions, fry them in butter until they are brown. Cut the 
meat into small pieces, put it into a stew-pan with all the 
above ingredients and the grated rind of a lemon and 
stew until tender, then add two and a-half tablespoonsf ul 
of vinegar, a squeeze of lemon, and salt to taste, simmer 
for five minutes ; it will then be ready to serve. The 
curry should be served with a vegetable-dishful of rice, 
and should be eaten with a spoon. 

CURRY POWDER 

Consists of turmeric, black pepper, coriander seeds, cayenne, 
fenugreek, cardamoms, cumin, ginger, allspice and cloves, 
but the three latter are often omitted. Tlie seeds should 
be ground in a mill and mixed with the powder, and 
when made it should be kept in a bottle closely corked. 
A spoonful of cocoa-nut kernel, dried and pounded gives 
a delicious flavour to a curry, as does also acid apple. 

CURRY SAUCE. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

To make curry sauce quickly, mix a dessertspoonful 
of curry powder with half a pint of melted butter. Time 
ten minutes. Suflicient for a small dish of curry. 



Essetice of Curry. 145 

TO BOIL BICE FOR CURRY. 

Gassell's Dictionary of Cookery 

Patna rice is the correct rice to use for curries, but it is 
not of so good a quality as Carolina rice, and, besides, it 
cannot always be obtained. The thing to be attended to 
is to have each grain of rice distinct and unbroken, and, 
at the same time, quite tender. This can be attained 
quite as well with Carolina rice as with Patna rice, but 
the former will require boiling longer than the latter. 
Wash the rice in several w^aters. Pick out every dis- 
coloured and unhusked grain, and boil it in plenty of 
cold water. This is the secret of having the rice whole ; 
the water will keep the grains separate. Leave the sauce- 
pan uncovered. Bring the water slowly to a boil ; shake 
the pan occasionally to prevent burning, but do not stir 
the rice at all. When it has simmered gentl3'-for twenty 
or twenty-five minutes it -will most likely be tender. 
Patna rice will not require so long. Drain it in a colan- 
der, and let it dry gently before the fire. Serve it round 
the curry. Half a pound of rice is sufficient for a mode- 
rate-sized dish of curry. 

ESSENCE OF CURRY. 

CasselVs Dictionai^ of Cookery. 

Put three ounces of powder to a quart of strong vine- 
gar; let it remain for a fortnight and then strain off 
the clear liquid and put it into bottles for use. A 
dessertspoonful will flavour half a pint of sauce. One 
of the most essential accompaniments to good currj^ is 
good rice properly boiled ; the best rice we can get is 
the American rice. It must be boiled in the follow- 
ing manner : — Wash it well in cold water, and dry it 
well in a clean napkin ; boil some water with a little 
salt in it ; stew the rice into the boiling water, and when 
it begins to swell check the boiling with a teacupful of 
10 



146 TJte Canadian Economist. 

cold water,'and continue to do so until the rice is cracked ; 
before it begins to fall into pap, and while the grains are 
yet separate from each other, throw it into a colander and 
let it dry before the fire. It will then be fit for table. 

INDIA CUERY, 

Miss B. Christie. 

One and a-half tablespoonful of minced onion, one and 
a-half tablespoonful of butter, one large tabJespoonful of 
curry powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, one and a-half 
pounds of either beefsteak or mutton, two cupsful of milk. 
Fry the onions in the butter until of a pale golden brown, 
then add the curry pow^der and salt, and let it simmer a 
minute, then add the meat cut into small squares, having 
removed all skin and fat from it. Let this cook for two 
or three minutes, add a cup of milk, and let it simmer with 
the lid ofiP for an hour and a-half, or until it is quite dry, 
stirring it occasionally ; add another cup of milk, let it 
come to a boil, when it is ready for tlie table. 

CURRIED FOWL. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

The remains of cold roast fowl, two onions, one apple, 
two ounces of butter, a dessertspoonful of curry powder, 
a teaspoonful of flour, half a pint of gravy, a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice : slice the onion, peel and chop the 
apple, and cut the fowl into neat joints ; fry these in but- 
ter till brow^n, add the curry powder, fiour and gravy and, 
stew for about twenty minutes ; put in the lemon juice, 
and serve with boiled rice placed round the edge of the 
dish. 

CURRIED DISHES. 

Miss Beecher. 

Chickens and veal are most suitable for curries. Boil 
the meat till tender, and separate the joints ; put a little 



Cui'vied Dishes. 147 

butter in a stewpan with the veal, pour on a part of the 
liquor in which the meat was boiled, enough nearly to 
cover it, and let it stew twent}' minutes more. Prepare 
the curry thus : For four pounds of meat take a table- 
spoonful of curry powder, a teaspoonful of boiled rice, a 
tablespoonful of flour and another of melted butter, a tea- 
cupful of the liquor, and half a teaspoonful of salt, mix 
them and pour them over the meat, and let it stew ten 
minutes more. Rice should be boiled for an accompani- 
ment. 




T 



CHAPTER X. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Home Messenger. 
'^0 roast a leg of mutton or lamb is a very simple pro- 



cess, requiring it simply to be put in a pan, and tho- 
roughly basted and seasoned, baking twelve minutes for 
every pound of lamb, and fifteen for eveiy pound of 
mutton. 

TO BOIL A LEG OF MUTTON. 

Plunge the mutton into boiling water and let it scald 
fifteen minutes for every pound ; in extremely cold wea- 
ther, allow half an houi- extra boiling. Serve with drawn 
butter and nasturtiums, or capers. 

BAKED MUTTON. 

Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Either a loin, saddle, leg or shoulder may be flaked. 
Put the meat into a baking pan, with a little butter spread 
over it ; pour in enough cold water to cover the bottom 
of the pan, and then set it in a quick oven. After it has 
been in the oven about fifteen minutes, baste, and place a 
bit of buttered paper upon the top of the meat. If the 
bottom of the pan is dry add a little more water ; if too 
much fat accumulates in the pan, take the pan out and 
pour the fat off, adding cold water instead, and set back 
in the oven to finish cooking. Cook until a skewer or a 
small knife can bo run into the joint easily, and then dish. 
Serve with its own gravy. 



A Stewed Kech of Mutton. 149 

FRIED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Prepare the chops as for broiling ; dip them in beaten 
egg and roll them in pounded crackers ; fry in hot lard 
or dripping, drain them as they are dished, and serve hot 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

French Domestic CooTcery. 

In order that the leg may be tender and excellent eat- 
inor, do not dress it until it has been killed at least four 
days. Beat it well to render it still more tender ; loosen 
the skin, and let it marinade a day or two in oil, pepper, 
onion and chopped parsley ; put a clove of garlic in the 
knuckle. Roast the joint before a brisk fire for about an 
hour and a half, and baste with the marinade mixed with 
its own fat. 

FILLET OF MUTTON WITH VEGETABLES. 

French Domestic Cookery, 

Bone a breast of mutton and lard it with small pieces 
of bacon ; roa-st, and serve it with a ragout of spinach, 
endive, cauliflowers, peas and potatoes. 

HASHED MUTTON WITH FRIED EGGS. 

Make a hash of mutton and garnish it with fried slices 
of bread and fried eorors on tomato or some other sauce 

A STEWED NjiCK OF MUTTON. 

Choose a lean neck of mutton, cut it up into chops, re- 
move the fat and skin from them, and trim them neatly. 
Put a tablesj)oonful of sago at the bottom of a large 
earthenware jar, which has a cover to it ; on the sago 
arrange a layer of chops, and upon the chops sliced car- 
rots, turnips, onions and celery, and any green vegetable 
which may be in season, such as lettuce, peas, kc. Com- 
mence again with another tablespoonf ul of sago, then a 



150 The Canadian Economist. 

layer of meat., and another of vegetables, and so on, until 
the materials are all in the jar. Season well with pe])per 
and salt, pour in one pint of spring water, cover the jar 
closely, and stew gently in the oven for three hours. 

BOILED MUTTON. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Wash a leg of mutton clean and wipe dry. Do not 
leave the knuckle and shank too long as to be unshapely. 
Put it into a pot with hot water (salted) enough to cover 
it, and boil until you ascertain by proving with a fork, 
that it is tender in the thickest part. Skim off all the 
scum as it rises. Allow about twelve minutes to each 
pound Take from the fire, drain perfectly dry, and serve 
with melted butter, with capers, or nasturtium seed ; or, 
if you have neither of these some cucumber or gherkin 
pickle stirred into it. If you wish to use the broth for 
soup put in very little salt while boiling ; if not, salt 
well, and boil the meat in a cloth. 

L.\MB. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Lamb should never be boiled except in stews. It is 
tasteless and sodden cooked in this manner, on account of 
the immaturity. But on the other hand, a lamb, pie pre- 
pared like one of beef or venison is excellent, while mut- 
ton pies have usually a strong, tallowy taste that spoils 
them for delicate palates. Roast lamb should be eaten 
with mint sauce, if you fancy it, currant jelly and aspar- 
agus or green peas. Lettuce salad is likewise a desirable 
accompaniment. 

LAMB CUTLETS. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Procure the first two chops of a neck of lamb, or, if 
early in the season, one from the loin ; cut the meat from 



Mutton PaMy. 151 

the bone, trim away neai'ly all the fat and divide the chop 
into two slices. Dip the cutlets in egg, then crumb them 
and fry gently in butter until brown. Serve with a little 
beef gravy thickened and slightly flavoui'ed with lemon 
juice. 

la^ib's sweetbreads. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Some care is necessary in choosing these, for if the 
lamb is not itself young and tender the sweatbread will 
be stringy and unpleasant to eat. Parboil them in 
exactly the same way as calf's sweetbread ; dip them in 
egg and seasoned bread-cnimbs and fry in a little butter 
until brown. Toasted bacon may be served with the 
sweetbreads. In this case no gravy will be required. 

A SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

True Guide to Housekeeping. 

A saddle of mutton is the two loins together, and the 
backbone running down the middle to the tail. Slices 
are to be cut out parallel to the backbone, on either side. 
In a leer of mutton the knife is to be entered in the thick 
fleshy part, as near the shank as will give a good slice. 
Cut towards the large end, and always to the bone. 

MUTTON PASTY. 

Little Dinnei'S. 

The un lercut of a shoulder is best for this purpose 
With a sharp knife cut the lean meat away from an un- 
cooked shoulder of mutton ; let the slices bs thin. This 
will not interfere with the upper side which may be huno- 
as long as required after the undercut is removed. Lay 
the slices of meat in a pie-di.sh, sprinkle pepper and salt 
over them, and nearly fill the dish with a gravy that will 
jelly ; it miy be male with mutton shanks and a little 



152 The Canadian Economist. 

gravy beef, two nicely fried onions, a few peppercorns, 
and a very small bit of mace. If for eating cold, cover 
the pasty with a good pulf paste and bake in a quick 
oven. If to be served hot a cover of mashed potatoes or 
a crust as for Devonshire pie is suitable. 

EOAST MUTTON AND LAMB. 

The Economical Cook Book. 

If a shoulder or leg, stuff as veal, sprinkle with salt' 
pepper and flour to cook. Serve with asparagus, peas, 
lettuce, beans, etc. 

DEVONSHIRE PIE. 

Little Dinners. 

Take a pound and a-half of the scrag of mutton cut it 
up into convenient pieces and put it into a stewpan with 
one-half a pint of water, two large pinches of salt and 
one of pepper and two large onions sliced. Let it simmer 
for two hours, or till perfectly tender, then set the gravy 
to cool. Draw all the bones out of the meat and arrange 
it neatly in a pie-dish, place on the top the onions cooked, 
with it, sprinkle lightly with pepper and salt, and spread 
over a thin layer of nicely sweetened apple-sauce, or apple 
marmalade and having removed the fat from the gravy, 
pour it over the meat. etc. Make a crust as follows : — 
Use suet finely shred, not chopped, in the proportion of 
three ounces to five ounces of flour and water, in that of 
half a pint to a pound of flour. Having minced these 
ingredients with a pinch of salt, into a smooth paste, roll 
it out and beat it until the suet and flour are thoroughly 
incorporated, then roll it out in the usual manner and put 
it on the pie. This crust is good eaten hot and is whole- 
some and digestible. If a richer crust is desired an ounce 
of butter or lard may be added to the given proportions, 
which are about sufficient to make a crust, for one 
pound and a half of mutton. If pie-crust is objected to. 



Saddle of Mutton. 153 

a layer of well mashed potatoes may be substituted, or 
slices of bread, fried a light brown, and laid on as a cover 
are very good. The whole of the contents of the pie 
having been thoroughly cooked it will be ready so soon 
as the crust, of whatever kind, is nicely baked, 

lamb's head, liver and heart. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

A lamb's head, one lamb's liver, one lamb's heart, yolks 
of two eggs, a bunch of sweet herbs, bread-crumbs, one 
ounce of butter, three-quarters of a pint of gravy, one 
spoonful of lemon pickle or the juice of a lemon, season- 
ing. Thoroughly clean a lamb's head and parboil it, then 
brush it over with the yolks of the eggs well beaten, chop 
a few sweet herbs very fine, mix them with bread-crumbs 
and a little warmed butter, and spread the mixture 
thickly over the head, then put it in a Dutch oven before 
a bright and clear fire to finish dressing. Mince the liver 
and the heart very small and let them stew till done, 
pour in three-quarters of a pint of good gravy, with a 
spoonful of lemon pickle or the juice of a lemon, make 
the brains into small cakes with a little milk and season- 
ing and fry them brown. Place the head in the centre of 
the dish on the minced liver and heart, and gaiTush with 
brain cakes, forcemeat balls and a lemon cut into slices 
and placed at the edge of the dish. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

Soyer. 

Take oft* the skin, run a skewer through the spinal mar- 
row bone, which aflBx to a larger one w ith a holdfast at 
one end and string at the other ; then tie the skin over 
the back and put it to roast. It will not take so long a 
time to roast in proportion as another joint, one about ten 
pounds will take one hour and twenty minutes ; remove 



154 The Canadian Economist 

the paper ten minutes before taking it from the fire, dredge 
to give it a nice colour and make gravy and serve. 

BONED QUARTER OF LAMB. 

Warne's Every-day Cookery. 

One pound of forcemeat ; melted butter. Bone a quar- 
ter of lamb, fill it with forcemeat, roll it round, and tie it 
with a piece of string, cover it with a buttered paper, and 
roast it. Serve it with melted butter. 

HAUNCH OF MUTTON. 

Soyer. 

Saw or break three inches from the knuckle-bone, re- 
move all skin from the loin, put it on a spit, commencing 
at the knuckle, and bringing it out at the flap, avoiding 
the fillet of the loin. Then cover it with three sheets of 
buttered paper and roast it for two hours and a-half, half 
an hour before being done remove the paper, baste it with 
a little butter and dredge it slightly ; Avhen done, dish it 
up with a frill round the knuckle, and pour a pint of hot 
gravy over. Tn summer French beans should be served 
with it, but always mashed potatoes. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Mutton and lamb must be roasted with a quick, clear, 
fire. Baste it as soon as you lay it down, sprinkle on a 
little salt, and when near done, dredge it with flour. A 
leg of mutton of six pounds will take an hour and a quar- 
ter, and one of twelve, two hours ; a breast, half an hour 
at a quick fire; a neck, an hour, and a shoulder much about 
the same time as a leg. In dressing the loin, the chine 
("which is the two loins), and the saddle (which is the 
ibwo necks and part of the shoulders cut together), you 
must raise the skin, and skewer it on, and when near done. 



Scotch Haggis. 155 

take off the skin, and baste it to froth it up. Send some 
good plain gravy up with it. 

TONGUES OR UDDERS. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Parboil the tongue before you put it down to roast ; 
stick eisrht or ten cloves about, baste it with butter, and 
serve it up with some gravy and sweetmeat sauce. An 
udder may be roasted after the same manner. You may 
also lar<i the tongue nicely, but take care that the fire does 
not burn the larding. 

LEG OF MUTTON ROASTED WITH OYSTERS. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Take a fine leer of mutton that has hunsf two or three 
days, stuff every part of it with oysters ; roast it, and 
when done, pour some good gravy into the dish, and gar- 
nish with horse-radish. 

SCOTCH HAGGTS. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Procure a sheep's paunch, allow it to stand in salt and 
water. Then scrape and blanch it in salt water ; parboil 
heart, lights and liver, add suet and mince them well, half a 
gallon of oatmeal, one quart of milk and water, four onions 
chopped fine, a little summer savory, and plenty of all- 
spice, pepper, salt ; mix and sew firmly. Then boil for 
four houi-s on a slow fire. Prick it well when boilinof ; 
serve hot. 

SCOTCH HAGGIS. 

Mrs. Mackie, Ottawa. 

A sheep's stomach ; clean well with wann water. In- 
gredients, half pound of oatmeal, two large sized (minced 
fine) onions. A teaspoonful of pepper, one of salt, half a 



156 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

pound of beef suet, minced fine. Parboil the liver, and 
grate half of it. Mix all together, and fill the bag mode- 
rately. Boil two hours. 

MUTTON ROLLED. 

Booh of the Household. 

Bone a shoulder of mutton carefully, so as not to injure 
the skin ; cut all the meat from the skin, mince it small, 
and season it highly with pepper, a nutmeg, a clove, some 
parsley, some thyme, sweet marjoram chopyjed, and a 
pounded onion, all T/ell mixed together, with the well- 
beaten yolk of an egg. Roll it up very tightly in the 
skin, tie it round, and bake it in an oven, two or three 
hours, according to the size of the mutton. Make a gravy 
of the bones and parings ; season, with an onion pepper 
and salt, strain and thicken it with flour and butter ; add 
vinegar, mushroom catsup, soy, and lemon pickle, a table- 
spoonful of each. Garnish with foremeat balls made of 
grated bread, and part of the mince. 

SLICES OF MUTTON WITH CREAM. 

Booh of the Household. 

Cut a roasted loin of mutton into slices, which put into 
a stewpan ; chop up some small onions, stew them with a 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter and a little stock, and 
when nearly dissolved, add half a pint of good cream, salt 
and pepper. Let it boil five minutes ; then put in the slices 
of mutton and make them quite hot, but they must not 
boil. Serve them quickly. 

QUARTER OF LAMB (ROASTED AND LARDED). 

Booh of the Household. 

Take a fore-quarter of lamb, lard the upper side of the 
joint with lean bacon, and sprinkle the other side thickly 
with biead-crumbs ; then cover with paper, to prevent the 



Lamb Pastry. 157 

meat from being burnt and roast it. When nearly done, 
take it from the fire, and cover the part that has not been 
larded a second time with bread-crumbs, seasoned with 
salt and parsley, chopped very finely ; then put the lamb 
again before a bright fire to brown it. Serve with a little 
vinegar poured over it. 

LAMB. 

Booh of the Household. 

A shoulder of lamb of moderate size will require roast- 
ing from three quarters of an hour to an hour. When 
done, put some good gi'avy into the dish with the lamb ; 
and serve mint sauce in a boat. 

LAMB CHOPS BROILED. 

Book of the Household. 

Cut a loin or the best end of the neck into chops, flat- 
ten them, and cut off" the fat and skin, rub the gridiron 
with a little fat, broil them on a clear fire, turn them with 
st^ak tongs till quite done and serve them hot. 

KIDNEY DUMPLINGS. 

Book of the Household. 

Make your dumplings in the usual way and put in each 
a kidney (mutton kidney) well washed, and seasoned with 
pepper and salt, boil them tied in a cloth and serve them 
very hot. 

LAMB PASTY. 

Book of the Household 

Bone the lamb, cut it into four pieces, lay beef suet at 
the bottom of the pastry, and season the lamb with pepper, 
salt, chopped thyme, nutmeg, cloves and mace ; lay it upon 
the suet ; making a high border about it ; then turn over 
your sheet of paste, close it up and bake it. When it is 



158 The Canadian Economist. 

baked, put in vinegar, the yolks of eggs well beaten and 
some good gravy. 

KIDNEYS. 

Booh of the Household. 

Cut them through the long way, score them and sprinkle 
them over with a very little pepper and in order to broil 
all over alike, and to keep them from curling on the grid- 
iron, run a wire skewer right through them. They must 
be broiled over a clear tire, being careful to turn them 
frequently till they are done. They will take about ten 
or twelve minutes to broil provided they are done over a 
brisk fire ; or if you choose you may fry them in butter, 
and make gravy for them in the pan by putting in a tea- 
spoonful of flour. Ah soon as it looks brown put in a 
sufficient quantity of water as will make gravy. They 
will take five minutes longer frying than boiling. Garnish 
with fried parsley. You may improve them, if you think 
proper, by chopping a few parsley leaves very finely, mix- 
ing them with a piece of fresh butter, a little pepper and 
salt, and then putting some of this mixture over each 
kidney. 

BEEF KIDNEY. 

Booh of the Household. 

Take a kidney and braise it till very tender ; shred it 
finely, serve it upon stewed cucumbers, or any other green 
you like better. It should be rather highly seasoned. 

ROLLED LOIN OF MUTTON. 

Little Dinners. 

With a sharp knife remove all the bones from three 
pounds of the best end of a loin of mutton, cut away the fil- 
let from the bones, mince it very finely, add an equal weight 
of bread-crumbs, a shalot scraped and minced, a little 
fresh parsley chopped, pepper and salt, and enough egg to 



Lamb's Fry. 159 

bind it, place this on the mutton, bind it up tightly with 
tape, rub the outside with flour, pepper and salt and roast- 
slowly in the oven or in any other way you choose. Fry 
the bones with onions until brown and make them into a 
good gravy, with a little stock and any morsels of meat 
you happen to have, thicken the gravy and pour round 
the meat. Garnish with stewed or glazed onions. 

GLAZED ONIONS. 

Little Dinners. 

Choose small ones, as nearly the same size as possible. 
For twelve onions, put an ounce of butter, an ounce of 
lump sugar, a little salt and pepper, and sufficient gravy 
to cover the onions, put in the onions, and let them boil 
gently until done, then take them out and set the gravy 
to boil sharply without the lid of the stewpan until re- 
duced to a glaze, then thoroughly coat the onions, by 
shaking them in it. Place round the mutton, taking caa'e 
not to let them be covered with the gravy. 

lamb's fry. 

Little Dinners, 

A really proper fry should consist not only of sweet- 
breads and liver, but of the heart, milt, brains, frill and 
kidneys, each of which requires a different treatment. It 
is quite as easy to cook a fry properly as to flour and fry 
it hard and overbrown, as it is too frequently done, trim 
the sweetbreads neatly, and simmer them for a quarter of 
an hour in good white stock with an onion; when they are 
done, take them up and put the brains in the gi'avy, al- 
lowing them to boil as fast as possible in order to harden 
them, let them get cold, then cut into slices, egg and bread- 
crumb them, and fry with the sweetbread in a little 
butter. After the brains are taken out of the gravy, put 
the slices of heart and milt in and let them stew slowly 



160 The Canadian Economist. 

until tender, when they are ready, flour them and fry 
with the liver and frill until brown. Lastly put the kid- 
neys cut in slices, into the pan, and very gently fry for 
about a minute, shake a little flour into the pan, stir it 
about until it begins to brown, then pour on to it the 
gi^avy in which the sweetbread &c., were stewed. See 
it is nicely seasoned, and pour round the fry, which 
should be neatly arrayed on the centre of the dish, garn- 
ish with fried parsley 

FISH STEW. 

Waraes Everyday Cookery. 

Two pounds and a half of chops, eight potatoes, four 
small onions, nearly a quart of water. Take about two 
pounds and a half of chops from a loin of mutton, place 
them in a stewpan with alternate layers of sliced potatoes 
and layers of chops, add four small onions and pour in 
nearly a quart of cold water, cover the stewpan closely and 
let it stew gently until the potatoes are ready to mash, 
and the greater part of the gravy is absorbed ; then place 
it on a dish, and serve it up very hot. 

sheep's trotters. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery 

Four trotters, one tablespoonful of flour, a saltspoonful 
of salt. Perfectly cleanse and blanch the trotters taking 
care to remove the little tuft of hair, which is found in 
the fourche of the foot. Beat up a spoonful of flour and 
a little salt in the water you use for cooking them in, and 
let them stew till the bones come out easily. 



CHAPTER XI. 

GAME PIE FOR CHRISTMAS. 

Ca.ssell's Dlctioruiry of Cookery. 

ri"lHIS pie is .suitable where game is abundant, and ex- 
l pense no object. Make a thick, stiff crust, it may be 
either baked in a mould, or formed into sha[)e with the 
hands. The latter operation is not easy for those unac- 
customed to it Line the bottom with slices of fat bacon, 
spread over that a layer of forcemeat, made by scalding the 
livers of the birds, and pounding them with their weight 
in fat bacon and lean ham, a few truffles, some bread-crumbs, 
salt, pepper, savoury herbs, pai-sley, and rasped lemon rind. 
Then put in some of the joints of the birds — the breasts 
should be larded — and strew over all some finely chopped 
mushrooms; repeat vnitil the pie is full ; season rather light- 
ly, and keep putting little lumps of butter in amongyt the 
other ingredients, say some slices of bacon on the top ; put 
on the lid ; ornament with pastry leaves and other devices ; 
brush over with beaten egg and bake in a moderate oven. 
If the pie is to be served hot, pour some strong gravy over 
it, as soon as it is baked; if cold, take away the bacon from 
the top and put some roughed aspic jelly over it before 
sending it to table. This pie may be made of pheasants, 
partridges, woodcocks, snipe, grouse, &c. 

CRUMBS FOR G.\ME. 

Cassell's Dictionai^y of Cookery. 

Take the crumbs of a stale roll, grate it very finely ; put 
the crumbs into a stewpan with one ounce of fresh butter ; 
11 



162 The Canadian Econornid. 

place them on a slow fire, and move them about with a 
wooden spoon till they are bright brown; put them on a 
sieve to drain and hand them round on a separate dish. 
They are especially required when the game is rather high ; 
a few minutes to brown. 

FORCEMEAT FOR GAME. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take a quarter of a pound of fat bacon and a quarter of 
a pound of calf's liver ; cut into convenient sized pieces, 
and fry them until half-cooked, then chop them small ; put 
them into a mortar and pound them thoroughly with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a pinch 
of powdered mace. When well pounded add the well- 
beaten yolks of two eggs ; and if these are not sufficient to 
bind all together, add a little cream. 

GAME PATTIES. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Make a nicely flavoured mince of the remains of game ; 
moisten with a little gravy; make some small round patties 
of good light crust, or puff paste ; brush them over with 
beaten egg, and bake them till lightly browned ; warm the 
mince in a saucepan, put a little in the centre of each and 
serve them hot, piled on a napkin ; twice ten minutes to 
bake. 

ENGLISH GAME PIE. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookei'y. 

The great point to be attended to in this dish, is to use 
venison that has been well kept. The best end of the neck 
is what should be taken. Trim and rub it with mace^ 
nutmeg, cayenne and salt; boil down the trimmings of veni- 
son to the inferior joints of a hare to make gravy ; take 
the back and thighs of the hare, and after boning them, 



Prairie Cltivlei(>\ P<i r^rithjes and Quail. 1(jo 

fill with forcemeat, using shalot and the raw liver of the 
hare, minced up in the forcemeat. Line a dish with short- 
crust ; put in the venison and hare, filling up every space 
with forcemeat ; add a little of the gi'avy, put on the cover, 
ornament the top and bake in a hot oven. When venison 
is not liked, substitute the prime joints of another hare ; 
time, about two houi*s and a half to bake. 

GAME SAUSAGES. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take the remains of game ; cut off the meat ; remove 
carefully the skin and sinew ; mince the tiesh and pound it 
in a mortar with six ounces of lean ham and six ounces of 
butter to every pound of meat ; season rather highly with 
salt, pepper and powdered mace; put the mixture into 
skins and fry in hot butter or lard for three quarters of 
an hour. 

TO REMOVE TAINT FROM GAME. 

Wash the game fii"st in chloride of soda and afterwards 
in fresh water, and dry it thoroughly in a cloth before 
cooking, or put some fresh powdered charcoal, tied in mus- 
hn, inside the crop ; take the charcoal out and throw it 
away before sending the bird to table. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS, PARTRIDGES AND QUAIL. 

Home Messenger. 

Clean nicel}', using a little soda in the water in which 
they are washed ; rinse them, and drain and fill with 
dressing, stewing them up nicely, and binding down the 
legs and wings with cord ; put them in a steamer and let 
them cook ten minutes, then put them in a pan with a 
little butter ; .set them in the oven and ba.ste frequently, 
until of a nice brown. They ought to brown in about 
thiity-five minutes. SeiA'e them in a platter, with sprigs 
of parsley, alternated with currant jell}-. 



164 The Caiv.ulian Economist. 

BAKED PIGEONS. 

Late Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Clean and prepare as for roasting, lay tlieni in a bake- 
pan on their backs, and place on the breasts of each a thin 
slice of salt pork or bacon , cover the bottom of the pan 
with cold water, and set in a hot oven, baste often till 
done; place the birds on their bicks on the dish, garnish 
with water-cress, sprinkle with lemon juice, and serve 
warm. 

BOILED PKiEONS. 

Late Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Truss them like boiled chickens, drop them into plenty 
of hot water, and throw in a little salt; in tifteen minutes 
lift them out, and dish. Pour parsley and butter over 
them, and send to the table. 

WILD PIGEON PIE. 

Late Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

This is made precisel}' as in quail pie, except that the 
pigeons are cut in four pieces each, and not stuffed. Par- 
boil and lay in the dish in alternate layers with the bacon 
and boiled eggs. Make the gravy richer than for the 
quails, by the addition of a good lump of butter rolled in 
flour, stirred in and boiled up to thicken before you put 
it on the Are. Wild pigeons are usually tougher and 
leaner than tame. 

Qtr'AIL PIE. 

Laie Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Clean, truss and stuff the birds, loosen the joints with 
a penknife, but do not separate them. Parboil for ten 
minutes, while you prepare a puff paste. Line a deep 
dish with this ; put in the bottom some shreds of salt 
pork 01- ham, next a layer of hard-boiled eggs, buttered 



Quailx Roasted with Ham. 165 

and peppered, then the birds, sprinkled with pepper and 
minced parsley ; squeeze some lemon juice upon them, 
and lay upon the breasts pieces of butter rolled in flour ; 
cover with slices of egg, then with shred ham ; pour in 
some of the gravy in which the quails were parboiled, 
and put on the lid, leaving a hole in the middle. Bake 
over an hour. 

WILD DUCKS. 

Late Mrs. Bon^y, Toronto. 

Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a fishy flavour, 
and when handled by inexperienced cooks are sometimes 
uneatable, from this cause. Before roasting them, guard 
against this by parboiling them with a small carrot, 
peeled, put within each. This will absord the unplea.sant 
taste. An onion will have the .same effect ; but, unless 
you mean to u.se onion in the .stuffing, the carrot is pre- 
ferable. In my own kitchen I usually put in the onion, 
considering a suspicion of garlick a desideratum in roast 
duck, whether wild or tame. 

ROAST DUCK (WILD). 

Parboil as above directed ; throw away the carrot or 
onion ; lay in fresh water half an hour, stuff with bread- 
crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, .sage and onion, and 
roast until brown and tender, basting for half the time 
with butter and water, then with the dripping; add to 
the gi"avy, when you have taken up the ducks, a table- 
spoonful of cun-ant jelly, and a pinch of cayenne ; thicken 
with V)rown flour, and .serve in a tureen. 

QUAILS ROASTED WITH HAM. 

L(de Mrs. Berry, Toronto. 

Clean, tniss, and stuff' as usual ; cover with slices of 
ham or pork, with a sheet of white paper, having secured 
the slices of meat with pack thread, stick the papers on 



ICn The Canadian Economist 

and keep them well basted with butter and water that 
they may not burn. Roast three quarters of an hour, 
if the fire is good. Remove the papers and meat before 
sending to table, and brown quickl3^ This is the nicest 
way of cooking quails. 

hunter's receipt for roasting partridge. 

Xotnilc Enylnellah. 

First secure the birds, one for each man, as ahy less 
will be found to be insufficient ; then dress in the ordinary 
way, with the exception of the feathei's, these are not 
removed. A dressing of potatoes and onions, with a little 
sage, if the camp is in possession of such a delicacy, and 
a small quantity of salt, may be prepared and inserted in 
the ordinary manner, not forgetting to sew up the aper- 
ture ; then make a stiff paste with clay and water, cover 
each bird, separately, with a covering of this paste of 
about an inch in thickness ; after which, place them in a 
bed of live coals, covering them well ; allow to remain so 
until the clay cracks, when they will be found to be well 
cooked. After being allowed to cool for a few minutes, 
remove the clay, the feathers and skin will adhere to it. 
By this process the aroma is not allowed to escape ^nd 
the meat will be found to be sweet and juicy. Try it ! 

FRICASSEED TURKEY. 

The remains of cold roast or boiled turkey ; a strip of 
lemon peel, a bunch of savoury herbs, onion, pepper and 
salt to taste, one pint of water, four tablespoonsful of 
cream, the yolk of an Qg^, cut some nice slices from the 
remains of a cold turkey and put the bones and trimmings 
into a stewi)an, with the lemon peel, herbs, onions, pepper, 
salt, and the water ; stew for an hour, strain the gravy 
and lay in the pieces of turkey ; when warm through , 
add the cream and the yolk of an Qgg, stir it well round 
and when getting thick take out the pieces, lay them on 



To BoU a Turkey. 167 

a hot dish and pour the sauce over. Garnish the fricassee 
with sippets of toasted bread. Celer}- or cucumber may 
be put into the sauce, if the foi-mer, it must be boiled 
first. 

CHICKEN AND H.\M PIE. 

Cut two chickens into joints, season them with salt, 
pepper and cayenne, a little powdered mace and a table- 
spoonful of chopped mushrooms ; then make balls of force- 
meat and the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and lay them in 
the dish between the joints of chicken with a few slices 
of lean ham in between, and add a little water with a 
mushroom boiled in it. Cover with puff paste and bake. 

FOWL STUFFED WITH OYSTERS. 

The Invalid's Cook. 

Truss a young fowl, as for boiling, and fill the inside, 
which must have been well cleaned, with oysters, from 
which the beards have been taken, and which have been 
washed in their own liquor, tie up the ends of the fowl and 
put it into a pi|)kin or earthen-ware jar, which, put into a 
saucepan of boiling water; keep it boiling for nearly 
two houi-s and then take the gravy which will have 
flowed from the fowl and stir into it gradually the yolks 
of two eggs, well beaten, and a teaeupful of milk ; then 
put this sauce into a saucepan and let it get quite hot, 
but without boiling, and pour it over the fowl when sent 
to table. A few oystere may also be added to the sauce 
if liked ; but all but a very little must be sent up in a 
tureen. From twQ to three dozen of oysters is the num- 
ber wanted. 

TO BOIL A TURKEY. 

Mrs. Maxivell. 

Stuff the turkey with bread, butter, salt, pepper, and 
minced parsley, tie up the legs and wings as for roas^ 
ing and then pin round it a cloth well sprinkled with flour. 



]G8 The Canadian Economist. 

Boil forty minutes, take off the pot and let it stand, keep- 
ing the lid close half an hour, when it is ready to serve, 
which should be done with drawn butter and stewed 
oysters. 

• POTTED FOWL, 

Tlte Invalid's Cook. 

Take the white meat from a cold fowl cutting off the 
skin and gristle ; add to it a little cold ham, tongue, or 
lean bacon, and then after mincing the meat up finely, 
pound it well in a mortar, adding at the same time, butter 
and spices to flavour it, in the proportion of about two 
ounces of fresh butter, a few^ grains of cayenne pepper, a 
saltspoonfull of pounded mace and half that quantity of 
grated nutmeg to every pound of meat. When the whole is 
well mixed together and reduced to a smooth paste, put it 
into a pot and pour clarified butter about a quarter of an 
inch on the top. If the meat is ver}^ dry a little more 
butter may be used in pounding. 

CHICKEN GIBLET PIE. 

Little Dinners. 

Prepare the giblets as for stewing. When done remove 
the meat from the necks and pinions and lay it with the 
rest of the giblets in a pie-dish ; put slices of boiled bacon 
between each layer, fill up the dish with gravy and cover 
w^ith a crust, either as for Devonshire pie, or of mashed 
potatoes. Bake for half an hour. 

RABBITS OR HARES, 

No Name. 

After your rabbit is cleaned, truss it and put it on to 
boil with cold water enough to cover it ; when it is boiled 
tender, take it out and fry it in boiling lard to a light 
brown. Take it out and set it near the fire ; have six 



To Roast Partridges. 1G9 

onions sliced and put them in the boiling lard. When 
they are fried a nice brown, pour a little boiling water in 
the frying pan and one teaspoi nful of browned flour. 
Pour this gravy over the rabbit seasoned with pepper and 
salt. 

TO ROAST A RABBIT. 

Fill it with forcemeat, sew it up, truss and roast it at a 
clear, bright fire, and baste it constantly with butter 
flour it well soon after it is laid down ; serve it with good 
brown gravy an I with currant jelly, when this last is 
liked. For change, the back of the rabbit may be larded 
and the bone left in or not at pleasure ; or it can be plain 
roasted when more convenient. It will take an hour to 
roast. 

DUCKS. 

Ducks are sometimas roasted without stufling. When 
stuffing is used, white potatoes, well boiled, mashed and 
highly seasoned, make a nice stuffing. Wild ducks are 
never stuffed. Wild ducks should be a little undeidone 
Always stew the giblets, mince them and add to the gravy 
which thicken with a little flour. 

TO ROAST PARTRIDGES. 

Let the birds hang as long as they can possibly be kept 
without becoming oftensive; pick them, carefully draw 
and singe them, wipe the inside thoroughly with a clean 
cloth ; truss them with the head twined under the wing 
and the legs drawn close together or crossed. Flour them 
when first laid to the fire, and baste them plentifullj' with 
butter; serve them with bread-sauce and good brown 
gravy ; a little of this last should be poured over them. 
Thirty to forty minutes will cook them ; rather less time 
must be allowed when the birds are liked underdressed. 
In preparing them for the spit, the crop mus^t be removed 
through a slit in the back of the neck, the claws clipped 
close and the legs held in boiling water for a minute that 
they may be skinned the more easily. 



170 The Canadian Economist. 

ROAST TUKKF.Y. 

Wkat I knoiv. 

Cut off the tips of the wings, the neck, gizzard, liver 
and heart, and lay them aside lor gravy ; make a filling 
of bread, butter, sweet marjoram or parsley, and after 
washing the fowl thoroughly stuff it with this ; cook it 
two or three hours ; gravy, boil the neck, &c., tender, 
with salt. Do chickens the same. An hour generally cooks 
them. For sauce — cranberry sauce, currant jelly, oyster 
sauce. 

BROILED CHICKENS. 

Take those that are young and tender, cut them down 
back and breast — wash and dry them. Lay them flat 
and skewer them down ; seas'>n with pepper and salt and 
broil half an hour on hot coals. Stew the giblets in water 
enough to cover them ; when done, mix flour and butter 
and a little parsley chopped fine, stir it in and come to a 
boil. Take off- -dish the chickens and pour the gravy 
over. 

TURKEYS. 

Domestic Cookery. 

When your turkey is properly trussed for dressing, 
stuff it wath the following inojredients : take four ounces of 
butter or chopped suet, some grated bread, a little lemon 
peel, parsley and sweet herbs chopped together, peppei", 
salt and nutmeg, a little cream, and the yolks of two or 
three eggs. Work these all well too^ether and fill the 
craw w^ith it. Let your fire be very brisk, and when 
you put it down paper the breast, and let it continue on 
till near done ; then take it off, dredge it with fiour, and 
keep basting till it is done. If it is a large turkey serve 
it up wdth gi"avy alone, or brown celery, or mushroom 
sauce. If it is a turkey-poult, serve it up with gravy and 
bread sauce, the latter of which make thus : — Cut the 



Fmvis. 171 

crumby part of a penny loaf into thin slices, put it into 
a saucepan with cold water, a few peppercorns, a little 
salt and an onion ; boil it till the bread is quite soft, and 
then beat it verj' fine. Put it into a quarter of a pound 
of butter, with two spoonsful of thick cream, and when it 
boils up pour it into a basin or boat and serve it up with 
the turkey. A middling sized turkey will lake more 
than an hour, a small one three-quarters of an hour, and 
a very large one an hour and a half. In dressing these, 
as well as fowls, always let your fire be clear and brisk. 

CHICKENS AND TONGUES. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Boil six small chickens very white ; then take six hogs' 
tongues boiled and peeled, a cauliflower boiled whole in 
milk and water, a good deal of spinach boiled gi-een. Then 
lay your cauliflower in the middle, the chickens close all 
roimd, and the tongues round them with the roots out- 
wards, and the spinach in little heaps between the tongues. 
Garnish with small pieces of bacon toasted, and lay a 
piece on each of the tongues. This is a good dish for a 
large company. 

FOWL.S. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Singe and clean j-^our fowls, baste them with butter 
and dredge over some flour; when they begin to smoke 
baste and dredge them again : let the fire be brisk, and 
send them to table with a good froth. The proper sauces 
for roast fowls are, gravy, egg, mushroom or celery sauce, 
the latter of which make thus : wash and pare a large 
bunch of celery very clean, cut it into thin bits, and boil 
it gently in a little water till it is tender, then add a little 
beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper and salt and thicken it 
with a large piece of butter rolled in flour ; then give it 
a boil and serve it up in a boat. To the water in which 



172 The Canadian Economist. 

you boil the celery put half a pint of cream which will 
make it very rich and substantial. This is an excellent 
sauce, not only for fowls, but also for partridges or any 
other game of the same kind. 

CHICKENS. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Be particularly careful in drawing your chickens, which 
done cut off their claws, and truss them for dressing; put 
them down to a good lire, and singe, dust and baste them 
with butter. When they are done enough froth them and 
lay them in \^our dish. Serve them up with parsley and 
butter poured over them and gravy and mushroom sauce 
in boats. A large chicken will take half an hour, a small 
one twenty minutes. 

VENISON. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Take a haunch of venison and rub some butter all over 
it. Take four sheets of clean paper well buttered, two of 
wdiich put on the haunch. Then make a paste with some 
flour, a little butter and water ; roll it out half as big as 
your haunch and put it ov^er the fat part ; cover this with 
the other two sheets of paper and tie them fast with 
pack-thread. Lay it to a brisk tire and baste it well all 
the time it is roasting. When it is near done take off 
both ])aper and paste, dredge it well with flour and baste 
it well with butter all the time it is roasting. As soon 
as it becomes of a light brown take it up and serve it to 
table wath brown gravy, currant jelly, or any other sauce 
suitable for venison. A haunch will take about three 
hours roasting. 

TO ROAST A TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Home Messenger. 

In England and on the continent neither a turkey nor 
a chicken is stuffed ; but not only is the stuffing nice in 



Hoast Goose. 173 

itself, it gives a.s well a« preserver a nice flavour to the 
fowl. After drawincr, washincj, drvincrand singeing a fowl, 
stuff it according to the above recipe, ci-aw and body ; 
truss it well, tying down the legs and fastening t'»e wings. 
Put into a dripping-pan the bird thus prepared, an<l let it 
cook till thoroughly done, but not dry. A fourteen-pound 
turkey will take three full houi-s ; a ten-pound bird will 
do in two. Save the giblets, consisting of liver, gizzard 
and heart, boil until tender and luince line. When you 
take up your turkey add a little browned flour to the 
gravy in the pan, some hot water, and the minced 
giblets, a few sprigs of parsley about the dish adds 
greatly to its appearance. Many persons like fried sau- 
sages, or fried oysters, laid about the dish, and served 
with each helping. 

A NICE WAY TO COOK PIGEONS. 

Home Messenger. 

Stuff the birds with a rich bread-dressing ; place com- 
pactly in an iron or earthen dish ; season with salt, pep- 
per and butter (or if you like best, thin slices of salt-pork 
over the tep), dredge thickly with flour, and nearly cover 
them with water. Then put over a closely fitting plate 
or cover, and place the dish on a moderate oven from two 
to four, or even live, hours, according to the age of the 
birds. If the birds are old and tough, this is the best 
way they can be cooked, and they may be made per- 
fectly tender and sweeter than by any other process. If 
the gravy is insufficient, add a little water before 
dishing. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Mi's. Beet on. 

Ingredients : Goose, four large 'onions, ten sage leaves, 
a quarter of pound of bread-crumbs, one and a half ounce of 
butter, pepper and salt to taste, one e^. Choo.''ing and 



174 The Canadian Economist. 

trussing: Select a goose with a clean white skin, plump 
breast, and yellow feet; if these latter are red, the bird is 
old. Should the weather permit, let it hang for a few 
days : by so doing the flavour will be very much improv- 
ed. Pluck, singe, draw, and carefully wash and wipe the 
goose ; cut off the neck close to the back, leaving the skin 
long enough to turn over; cut off' the feet at the lirst 
joint, and separate the pinions at the first jf)int. Beat 
the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin, put a skewer into 
the middle of each, and pass the same quite through the 
body. Insert another skewer into the small of the leg, 
bring it close down to the side-bone, run it through, and 
do the same to the other side. Now cut off the end of 
the bent, and make a hole in the skin sufficiently large 
for the passage of the rump, in order to keep in the 
.seasoning. 

Mode : Make a sage and onion stuffing of the above 
ingredients, put it into the body of the goose, and secure 
it flrmly at both ends, by passing the rump through the 
hole made in the skin, and the other end by tying the 
skin of the neck to the back; by this means the seasoning 
will not escape. Put it down to a brisk Are, keep it well 
basted, and ri>ast from one and a half to two hours, ac- 
cording to the size. Remove the skewers, and serve with 
a tureen of good gravy, and one of well-made apple 
sauce. Should a very highly flavoured seasoning be pre- 
ferred, the onions sliould not be parboiled, but minced 
raw : of the two methods the mild seasoning is preferable. 
A ragout or pie should be made of the giblets, or they 
may be stewed down to make gravy. Be careful to serve 
the goose before the breast falls, or its appearance will be 
spoiled by coming flattened to table. As this is rather 
a troublesome joint to carve, a large quantity of gravy 
should not be poured round the goose, but sent in a 
tureen. 

Time : A large goose one and three-quarters, a moderate- 
sized onej an hour and a quarter, or an hour and a half 



Gravy for Venimn. 175 

TO COOK OLD FOWLS. 

'CasseWs Household Guide. 

The oldest and toughest fowls may be made into a 
savoury and nutritious dish by the following method, 
which is given as a tried and warranted receipt, because 
such birds are so often pronounced uneatable, thrown 
away and wasted: When the fowl is plucked and draw^n, 
joint it, as for a pie. Do not skin it. Stew it live hours, 
in a close saucepan, with salt, mace, onions, or any other 
flavouring ingredient that may be approved ; a clove ot 
garlic may be added when not disliked. When tender, 
turn it out into a deep dish, so that the meat may be en- 
tirely covered with the liquor. Let it stand thus in its 
own jelly for a day or two (this is the grand secret), it 
may then be served in the shape of a hash, a curry, or a 
pie, and will be found little inferior to a pheasant under 
similar circumstances. The addition of stock, made from 
game-bones and trimmings, will improve the flavour. 

FRIED VENlNON'. 

Ccifisell's Househokl Guide. 

Cut the meat into slices, and make gravy of the bones . 
Fry it of a light brown, and keep it hot before the fire. 
Put butter rolled in flour into it and keep stirring till thick 
and brown. Put in some finely pow'dered sugar, and the 
gi-avy made of the bones ; let it be the thickness of cream. 
Squeeze in a lemon : warm the venison in it, put in the 
dish and pour sauce over it. Omit the sugar if you choose, 
and send currant jelly to table with it, in a glass. 

GRAVY FOR VENISOX. 

CasselVs Household Gu'd''. 

A strong, unflavoured gravy, seasoned with salt only, is 
generally served with venison ; it may be made as follows : 



17G The CJaiiaclian Economist. 

Take the trimmings of the venison, or failing these, a 
pound or two of the scrag end of a neck of mutton cut 
into chops. Fry these till they are brightly browned on 
both sides ; pour over them a quart of boiling water, and 
let the gravy simmer gently till it is reduced to one-half. 
Skim as re(juii'ed, and season with salt. Let it get cold ; 
free it entirely from fat, and serve in a tureen. The meat 
on the mutton bones may be potted and used as a break- 
fast relish. 

VENISON STEAKS (BROILED). 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Cut the steaks an inch thick, from the leg or the loin of 
venison ; make the gridiron hot, rub the bars with a little 
suet, and place the steaks upon it over a clear fire, turn 
them every two minutes to preserve the gravy. Make the 
steak dish very hot, put on it for each half-pound of veni- 
son an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of liquid, red cur- 
rant jelly, a tablespoonful of boiling stock or water, and 
a little pepper and salt. Turn the broiled steaks in the 
sauce once or twice, and serve hot. By way of variety, 
the butter only may be put into the dish under the steaks, 
and stewed mushrooms may be served with the venison ; 
or thin slices of lemon may be laid on the steaks for the 
last two or three minutes that they are being broiled, and 
then served with them. Time : from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes to broil the steaks. 

PASTRV FOR VENISON PASTY. 

CctsselVs Household Guide. 

Pastry for venison pasty should be good and short, but 
stifi. -For a rich pastry, it should be made in the propor- 
tion of ten ounces of butter to one pound of flour, and 
worked to smooth, stiff paste, with two eggs and a little 
warm water. For an ordinary pasty, rub three or four 
ounces of butter into a pound of flour, and work it to a 



Dressing foi' Turkey>i. 177 

smooth, stiff paste, with a beaten eg.£j and a little lake 
warm water. 

VENISON PASTV TO KEEP FOR SOME TIME. 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Cut the meat of a breast or shoulder of venison into 
pieces two inches square, season these with pepper and 
salt, adding, if liked, a small pinch of grated nutmeg ; 
put them, fat and lean together, into a baking dish, place 
a good slice of butter upon them and cover the dish with, 
a coarse paste of flour and water. Bake the pasty in a 
moderately heated oven for a couple of hours and keep it 
in a cool, dry place. When wanted, remove the coarse 
crust, line the edges and sides of the dish with good pas- 
try, pour in a small quantity of good gi'avy, cover with 
pastry, and bake in a good oven till the pastry is firm. 
Time to bake the pasty about an hour. 

WHOLESOMENESS OF VENISON. 

CasseWs Household Guide. 

Venison is less nutritive than beef, but is more easily 
digested. Indeed venison, if kept for some time, is one 
of the most easily digested articles of animal food, and 
well fitted for dyspeptics. When used by such persons 
it should be plain roasted, and rather underdone, and they 
should eat it without any sweet condiments, using merely 
table salt. It should be kept for some time to make it 
tender, but not so long as to begin to decay, as is often 
done. 

DRESSING FOR TURKEYS. 

Miss Buntan, Bradford, Pa. 

Cut the crust from a stale loaf of baker's bread, make 
it in fine crumbs, take one egg, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, one quart of oysters, mix ingredients all toge- 
12 



178 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

ther, and stuff the turkey ; one pint of oysters (or as much 
as you wish) for gravy, mix a little flour and seasoning 
with it, and send it to table hot. 

DRESSING FOR TURKEYS. 

Mrs. (Captaioi) Cowley. 

Crumbs of a roll of bread, one handful of sweet herbs, 
lemon thyme and summer savory, quarter of a pound of beef 
suet, green parsley and two eggs, pepper and salt, 

FOR GEESE AND DUCKS. 

Mrs. (Captain) Cowley. 

Crumbs of bread, sage-leaves, four large onions boiled a 
little and chopped up, butter and salt, 

TO BONE A TURKEY OR FOWL. 

Miss Actons Recipe. 

Cut through the skin and centre of the back, and raise 
the flesh carefully on either side with the point of a sharp 
knife until the sockets of the wings and thighs are 
reached. Till a little practice has been gained, it will 
perhaps be better to bone these joints before proceeding 
further, but after they are once detached from it the 
whole of the body may easily be separated from the flesh 
and taken out entire, only the neckbones and merry- 
thoughts will then remain to be removed. The bird thus 
prepared may either be restored to its original form by 
filling the legs and wings with forcemeat and the body 
with the livers of two or three fowls mixed with alternate 
layers of parboiled tongue freed from the rind, fine saus- 
agemeat, or veal forcemeat, or thin slices of the nicest 
bacon, or aught else of good flavour, which will give a 
marbled appearance to the fowl when it is carved, and 
then be sewn up and trussed as usual ; or the legs and 



Cutlets of Venwoii. 179 

wing may be drawn inside the body and tlie bird being 
first fastened on a table, may be covered witli sausage 
meat and the various other ingredients we have named, 
so placed that it shall be of equal thickness in every part ; 
then tightly rolled, bound firmly together with a fillet of 
broad tape, wrapped in a thin pudding -cloth closely tied 
at both ends and dressed as follows: — Put it into a brais- 
ing-pan, stewpan, or thick iron saucepan, bright in the 
inside and fitted as nearly as may be to its size, add all 
the chicken bones, a bunch of sweet herbs, two carrots, 
two bay leaves, a large blade of mace, twenty -four white 
peppercorns, and any trimmings or bones of undressed 
veal which may ))e at hand ; cover the whole with gbod 
real broth, add salt if needed, and stew it ver}^ softly from 
an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, let it cool in 
the liquor in which it was stewed, and after it is lifted 
out boil down the gravy to a jelly and strain it ; let it be- 
come cold, clear off the fat and serve it cut into large 
dice, or roughed and laid around the fowl which is to be 
served cold. If restored to its form, instead of being rolled 
it must be stewed gently for an hour, and may then be 
sent to table hot, covered with mushroom or any other 
good sauce that may be preferred ; or it may be left until 
the following day and served garnished with the jelly, 
which should be firm and very clear and well-flavoured ; 
the liquor in which a calfs foot has been boiled down, 
added to the broth, will give it the necessary degi'ee of 
consistence. 

CUTLETS OF VENISON. 

Warrtes Every-day Cookery. 

A few lardoons, a sprig of thyme and parsley, two car- 
rots, one onion, a little glaze, one gill of gravy ; cut the 
venison into nice shapes and lard each cutlet, lay them in 
a stewpan with the herbs and the vegetables sliced. When 
they are dressed, glaze them and serve them with sauce 
piquante. 



ISO The Canadian Economist. 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 

Mrs. (Senator) McFarlane, Pictou. 

A few slices buttered toast, half a slice to each person, 
andanchovy to each slice. For sauce, quarterof apint cream, 
yolks of three eggs beaten well, stir them into the cream, 
bring the sauce to the boiling point, but do not let it boil 
(or it will curdle), have ready some hot buttered toast 
spread with anchovy paste; pour a little of the hot sauce 
on the toast. Serve very hot. 

CREAM SAUCE FOR A HARE. 

McKenzies Receipts. 

Run the cream over the venison just before frothing it, 
and catch it in a dish ; boil it up with the yolks of two 
^g^^, and some onion and a piece of butter rolled in flour 
and salt. Half a pint of cream is the proportion for two 

eggs. 




CHAPTER XII. 

THE TOMATO. 
CasseWs Dictionary of Cookery. 

THE tomato or love apple is a fruit much valued in 
cookery for sauces, soups, gravies and ketchup. Tt 
is about the size of a potato. It comes into season in 
August and continues until frost sets in. It possesses a 
verypeculiarflavour, and when liked at all, is generally very 
highly esteemed. It is said to be good for indigestion and 
dyspepsia. The large tomatoes are the best for stewing 
and for sauces and the small ones for pickling. 

TO STEAM POTATOES. 

Warne's Evei'y-day Cookery. 

Pare the potatoes thin, and throw them into cold water 
for about five minutes ; then put the strainer over the 
.saucepan filled with boiling water, and let them steam 
from twenty to forty minutes, or until a fork goes through 
easily. Then take them up, and serve them quickly, or 
they will lose their colour. 

TO BOIL POTATOES. 

Warm's Every-day Cookery. 

Pare some potatoes as near the same size as possible, 
and throw them into cold water. Then put thetn into a 
saucepan, cover them with cold water and a pinch of salt. 
When the water boils, check it several times by throw'ing 



182 The Canadian Eeonomid. 

cold water in, as the slower they are boiled the better. 
When done, throw away the water and sprinkle a little 
salt over them. Put them at the side of the fire to dry, 
v/ith the lid of the saucepan off and then serve them 
quickly on a napkin. 

TO BOIL POTATOES WITH THEIR SKINS ON. 

Choose the potatoes, as nearly the same size as possible. 
Wash and scrub them thoroughly clean, put them into a 
saucepan, just cover them with water and a little salt. Let 
them boil and then draw the saucepan to the side and let 
them simmer slowly until tender and sufficiently done 
which may be ascertained by tiying them with a fork. 
Then drain the wa^^^cr from them,* raise the lid, and let 
them dry by the side of the fire. Peel them carefully 
and quickly, and serve them, in a very hot vegetable dish, 
with or without a napkin. 

TO MASH POTATOES. 

Warnes' Every-day Cookery. 

Potatoes ; a piece of butter ; a little milk and salt. Old 
potatoes, M'hen unfit for boiling, may be served mashed. 
Cut out all imperfections. Take off all the skin and lay 
them in cold water for an hour ; then put them into an 
iron saucepan, with a teaspoonf ul of salt, cover them with 
water, and let them boil half an hour, unless they are 
large, when three-quarters of an hour will be required. 
When done drain the water thoroughly from them, put 
them into a wooden bowl or moi'tar, and mash them 
with a potato pestle. Melt a piece of butter the size of a 
large egg with a little milk. Mix it with the mashed 
potatoes until it is thoroughly incorporated, and they are 
become a smooth mash, taking care the potatoes are not 
too wet. Then put the mash into a dish, smooth it neatly 
with a knife, and serve. Or it might be greatly improved 
by browning them in the oven. Or you may rub them 



To Broil Potutoes. 183 

through a coarse sieve and brown them with a salamander, 
without smoothing them over. 

TO BOIL NEW POTATOES. 

Warne's Every-day Cool-ei-y. 

Scrape the skins from new potatoes and lay them in 
cold water for an hour or two ; then put them into an 
iron saucepan and cover them with water ; cover them 
over and let them boil for half an hour. Try one ; if not 
quite done cover them for a few minutes longer. Then 
drain the water off; let them stand for a couple of 
minutes over the fire to dry, and send them to table plain; 
or you may pour a little melted butter over them. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

Boil some potatoes in their skins ; when cold peel them 
and cut them in slices a quarter of an inch thick, and fry 
them in butter or beef dripping, a nice delicate brown. 
WTien done, take them out with a slice to drain any 
grease from them, and serve piled high on a dish ; or they 
may be chopped up small, seasoned with a little pepper 
and salt, and fiied lightly in butter, turning them several 
times that they may be nicely browned. Serve in a 
covered dish. 

TO BROIL POTATOES. 

Wariie's Every-day Cookery. 

Eight or nine potatoes, a little flour, butter, pepper, 
and salt. Cut some coid- boiled potatoes lengthwise, 
one-fourth of an inch thick, dip each piece in flour, and 
lay them on a giidiron over a clear tire. When both 
sides are nicely browned, put them on a hot dish with a 
piece of butter over them, and a little pepper and salt. 
Serve them up hot. 



184 The Canadian Economist. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wavnes Every-day Cookery. 

Take as many large and equally-sized potatoes as you 
wish, wash them perfectly clean in two or three changes 
of water ; then wipe them dry, and put them in a quick 
oven for one hour. Serve them on a napkin with cold 
butter, and pepper* and salt separately. 

POTATOES A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Warne's Every-day Cookery. 

Some boiled potatoes, a little melted butter, pepper, salt, 
a sprig of parsley, a few chives, and the juice of half a 
lemon. Take some potatoes boiled and peeled ; when 
nearly cold, cut them into ratlier thick slices, and put 
them into a stewpan with a little melted butter, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, a sprig of parsley, a few chives chopped 
fine, and the juice of half a lemon. When very hot, put 
them into a dish, and serve with the sauce over them. 

MASHED CARROTS. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

Some carrots, butter, pepper and salt. Scrape off all 
the skin, wash them well, and boil them tender in a stew- 
pan of boiling water. Then take them up with a skim- 
mer. Mash them smooth, add a piece of butter, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Place them in the centre of a 
dish, piled up, and marked over with a knife. Serve 
with boiled or roasted meat. 

TO BOIL ASPARAGUS. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

One tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water. 
Scrape very clean all the white part of the stalks of the 
asparagus, and throw them into cold spring water; tje 



Stewed Vegetable Marrow. 185 

them up in bundles, cut the root ends even, and put them 
into a piece of muslin to preserve the tops. Have a wide 
stewpan of spring water with the above proportion of 
salt, and when it boils lay in the asparagus, and lx)il it 
quickly for fifteen minutes, or until it is tender. Have 
a thin slice from a loaf nicely toasted, cut it in square 
pieces, dip them in the aspai'agus water, and put them in 
the dish. Take up the asparagus, lay it on the toast 
with the white end outwards, and the points meeting in 
the centre. Serve with melted butter in a tureen. 

TURNIPS IN WHITE SAUCE. 

Warble's Every-day Cookery. 

Some turaips, a large cupful of whit« sauce, and a little 
butter. Wash and peel as many nice white turnips as 
you- require for a dish, peel and cut them into forms as 
for Jeru.salem artichokes, and boil them tender in a sauce- 
pan of water, with a piece of butter the size of a large 
walnut. When done, drain them in a colander, and place 
them on your dish neatly. Pour over them some white 
sauce, and serve them hot. 

BOILED VEGETABLE MARROW. 

Wames Eveiy-day Cookery. 

Some marrows, one tablespoonful of salt to half a gal- 
lon of water. Peel the marrows, and put them into a 
.saucepan of boiling water and salt. When tender, take 
them out, cut them into quarters, if large, if not, halve 
them. Serve them in a vegetable dish on toast, with a 
tureen of melted butter sent to table with them. 

STEWED VEGETABLE MARROW. 

Wanie's Every-day Cookery. 

Six or eight vegetable marrows, juice of half a lemon, 
one ounce of butter or fat bacon, a little salt. Take off" 



18G The Canadian Economist. 

all the skin of the marrows, put them into a stewpan 
with water, a little salt, the juice of half a lemon, and an 
ounce of butter or fat bacon. Let them stew gently till 
(juite tender, and serve them up with a rich Dutch sauce 
or any other you please that is piquant. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 



PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 
— . : „ A„„ — ^„*„i „* 



Four or five parsnips, a teaspoonful of flour, one ^gg, 
some butter or beef dripping. Boil four or five parsnijjs 
until tender, take oft" the skins and mash them very fine, 
add to them a teaspoonful of flour, one egg well beaten, 
and a seasoning of salt. Make the mixtute into small 
cakes with a spoon, and fry them on both sides a delicate 
brown in boiling butter or beef dripping. When both 
sides are done, serve them up very hot on a napkin or 
liot dish, according to your taste. These resemble very 
much the salsify or oyster plant, and will generally be 
preferred. 

SWEET POTATO PONE. 

Mrs. Donaldson, Mobile. 

Wash and grate the potatoes with their skins on, then 
to three cupsful of grated potatoes put one cupful of fi<Hir, 
one of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of lard, molasses 
enough to make it spread smoothly, flavour with essence of 
lemon to taste. To be eaten with meats. 

CELERY WITH CREAM. 

Warners Every-day Cookery. 

Three or four heads of celery, yolks of four eggs, half a 
pint of cream, a little salt and grated nutmeg. Cut the 
white part of three or four heads of celery into lengths of 
three or four inches long, boil it until quite tender, and 
strain it from tlie water, beat the yolks of four eggs and 



Greens. 187 

strain them into the cream, season with a Httle salt and 
grated nutmeg ; put it into the stewpan with the celery, 
set it over a stove until it boils and is of a proper thick- 
ness and then send it to table on toasted bread. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Cookery for Invalidx. 

Potfitoes properly fried may occasionally be served with 
the chop or cutlet, and are more digestible and nourishing 
than when plainly boiled. This remark, however, applies 
only to potatoes fried in perfection and served immediately 
they are done, as they lose their crispness by standing. 
Peel fine kidney potatoes and slice them as thin as you 
can, unless they are preferred thicker ; as you do the chips 
throw them into cold water as this fiees them from 
the potato Hour which has a tendency to prevent success- 
ful frying. Drain and lay them in a cloth to diy, put 
them into a wire basket, fry in boiling fat, and when the 
chips are brown, put them between paper in the oven for 
a minute, turn them on to a dish, sprinkle with salt and 
serve. The greatest care must be taken to have the fat 
the right tempei-ature for frying the potatoes, as other- 
wi.se they will be .sodden with grease. 

GREENS. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

General directions for boiling these can only be given. 
As there are so many kinds varying also in age and quality, 
and therefore taking more or less time to cook, it is 
customary to put soda in the water in which greens are 
l)oiled, in order to preserve their colour, but this practice 
deprives them of the properties which render them valu- 
able as an article of diet. When fresh, the colour should 
be preserved without diihculty, and as only perfectly fresh 
green vegetables must be given to invalids, soda will not 



188 The Canadian Economist. 

be necessary. Having carefully picked the greens, put 
them for a few minutes in tepid water, wash them 
thoroughly, drain, and throw them into a large saucepan 
of fast boiling water, slightly salted, keep the lid off the 
saucepan, and as soon as the greens are tender strain them 
through a colander. Have ready a tin vegetable presser, 
heated by pouring over it the water from the greens, press 
them into it, taking care that they become perfectly dry. 
Put them into a hot dish and serve. 

FRENCH BEANS. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

These should be very small and young in order that 
they may be cooked whole. Pick, throw them into fast 
boiling water, and boil in an uncovered stew^jan until 
tender. They can be served plain, or when drained, be 
put into a stewpan in which a small piece of butter has 
been dissolved and a squeeze of lemon juice added. Toss 
them about over the fire for about four minutes and they 
will be ready. 

To dress scarlet runners — wash them before slicing, do 
not cut them into thin strips, but divide each bean into 
three or four pieces. When cut so fine beans lose all their 
flavour. Do not again wash the beans, boil them as 
directed for French beans. 

ONIONS. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

The value of onions in many cases of illness is not well 
understood ; whenever the Doctor allows them they should 
be freely used. One caution is, however, necessary, onions 
require to be most thorougl)ly cooked, and being so, sel- 
dom disagree with the most delicate stomach. Put the 
onions to ijoil in plenty of water with a little salt, in half 
an hour put away the first water and put fresh. Let the 



ToTiudo Sauce. 189 

onions boil slowly fur three hours, or until so tender the}' 
can be pierced with a straw, then drain away the water, 
put a smfill piece of butter into the saucepan, and toss the 
onions in it over the tire for five minutes. Serve either 
with or without the butter according to the taste of the 
patient. 

STEWED WATER-CRESS. 

Cookery fm' Invalids. 

Well wash and pick the cress, put them into boiling 
water with a little salt, and boil them for ten minutes. 
Drain as dry as possible and mince them, then put them 
back into the stewpan with a spoonful of gravy and stew 
till tender. When ready to serve add a few drops of lemon 
juice. 

STEWED ENDIVE. 

Cookery for hivalids. 

Choose a fine white head, wa.sh, pick and pour boiling 
water over, let lie for ten minutes, then squeese pei-fectly 
dry, chop and put it into a stewpan with a teaspoonful 
of salt and a cupful of white broth or milk. Having 
stewed the endive until tender, add enough potato fiour to 
make the sauce thick, and when ready to serve stir in a 
little lemon juice. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Choose ripe, perfectly sound tomatoes, break them into 
small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a very small bit 
of butter or a spoonful of gravy, salt and if allowed, pep- 
per. Let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an 
hour, then rub through a sieve, taking care that none of 
the seeds get into the pur^e, which put back into the stew- 
pan, and stir over the tire until it is as thick as good apple 
sauce. 



190 Tlie Cavadian Economist. 

SEA KALK. 

Cookery for Invaliih. 

Trim the kale neatly, brush it to free it from dust, 
then rinse it in tepid water, tie into a small bundle and 
boil for about twenty minutes in sufficient salted water 
to cover it. When done drain the kale perfectly dry and 
serve on toast. 

VEGETABLE PUREE. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

The method of making vegetable purees is in all cases 
the same. Boil the vegetable until tender, rub it through 
a wire seive, and when this process is completed, put the 
puree with a small quantity of butter, stock, milk, cream. 
&c., into a stew pan, stir over the fii'e until it becomes 
thick. • 

ASPARAGUS STEWED. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Georgetown. 

Cut the green part of a bunch of asparagus in inch or 
half-inch lengths ; put it into a stewpan and let it boil 
fast for fifteen minutes, then pour very nearly all the water 
off*; work a tablespoont'ul of butter with a teaspoonful of 
flour, then stir them into the asparagus Add pepp3r and 
salt to taste. 

CREAMING POTATOES. 

Home Messenger. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes very thin, have ready a sauce- 
pan of boiling milk, in which place the potatoes with salt, 
a good sized piece of batter, and while boiling thicken 
with flour, mixed with water, stirring until delicate and 
creamy — when ready dish for the table. The goodness of 
this dish depends much upon catering just when ready; 
ten minutes being sufficient time to prepare it. 



Spring Vegetables and Hoir to Cook them. 191 

POTATO PUFF. 

Home Messenger. 

Two cups cold mashed potatoes, three tablespoonsful of 
melted butter, beaten to a cream; add two well beaten 
eggs, one cupful of cream or milk ; pour in a deep dish and 
bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO PLFF. 

Mrs. Ro.ss, 0. L. C. 

Two cupsful of cold mashed potatoes, stir into it two 
tablespoonsful of butter, beaten to a cream. Add two well 
beaten eggs and a cupful of milk, salting to t.aste. Beat 
all well together, pour into a deep dish and bake until 
nicely browned. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

Home Messenger. 

Scrape the roots, dropping each into cold water as soon 
as cleaned. Exposure to the air blackens them. Cut in 
pieces an inch long, put into a saucepan with hot water 
to cover them and stew till tender, throw off the w^ater 
and add soup, stock or milk enough to cover them. Stew 
ten minutes after this begins to boil, put in a great lump 
of butter cut into bits and rolled in flour. Boil up once 
and serve. 

k 

SPRING VEGETABLES AND HOW TO COOK THEM 

Home Messenger. 

In the spring, salsify or oyster plant is a pleasant change 
from boiled turnips and cabbage, and can be prepared in 
various ways. First wa}': gi-ate a bunch or two of salsify 
as you would horse-radish, add a raw egg beaten, and a 
little bread-crumbs or flour, and fry in a frying-pan, as 
you would oysters. Parsnips prepared in this way are 



102 The Canadian Economist. 

extremely nice. Second way, cut your salsify into round 
lozenges, parboil, throw it into a frying-pan with a little 
butter, and heat through, but do not brown, turn over 
this enough soup-stock or the boilings from steak or other 
bones to cover it ; thicken with a little flour and butter 
braided together, add pepper and salt and you will have 
a nice dish. 

COOKING CARROTS. 

Home Messenger. 

Cut the carrots in small pieces and stew in a little water 
till tender ; pour off what water is left ; put in milk 
enough to make a sauce, and a good lump of butter rolled 
in flour ; boil up again all together, having added salt and 
pepper to taste. Celery is excellent prepared in the sarat 
way. 

RADISHES. 

Borne Messenger. 

Prof. Blot says cut off the root and all the leaves, but 
the centre one or stilk. This should always be left on 
and eaten, as it contains an element which assists in the 
digestion of the radish. Split the radish up into stems, 
a"tid leave whole at the top ; serve in fresh ice water. 

TO STEW CABBAGE. 

Home Messenger. 

Parboil in milk and water and drain it. Then shred 
it, put it into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, a 
small cupful of cream and seasoning, and stew tender. 

ESCALOPED TOMATOES. 

Home Messenger. 

Peel and cut across the tomato in slice? about a quarter of 
an inch thick, lay layers of tomato, then sprinkling of 



Cucambei'>: 193 

fine bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, then bits 
of butter; repeat and end with bread-crumbs and butter ; 
bake an hour and a quarter. 

EGG PLANT. 

Home Messenger. 

Slice the egg-plant about half an inch thick, parboil in 
salt and water for about a quarter of an hour, then take 
out and fry in part butter and part lard. These are all 
nice also, when each slice is dipped in beaten eggs and 
bread-crumbs and then fried. 

brussel's sprouts. 

Invalids Cook. 

Cut off any discoloured leaves, pare the stems even and 
mash the sprouts well. Put them into a saucepan of boil- 
ing water properly salted, keep the cover otf, and boil 
them quickly for about ten minutes, or till nearly done. 
Then pour off the water, put into the saucepan a slice of 
fresh butter cut into bits, a tablespoonful of gravy 
Tveal is the best), a little salt and pepper, and a little 
lemon-juice if liked. Shake the pan gently over the fire 
till the butter is melted and the other ingredients thor- 
oughly mixed with the sprouts, then serve them up very 
hot. If you can Ije veiy' quick, so as not to let the sprouts 
get cold, they look best pyramid in the dish. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Invalid's Cook. 

Take large cucumbers which are not seeded; pare and 
slice them about as thick as half a crown, slice two onions 
therein, lay them on a cloth and dry them, shake over 
them a little flour and frv them of a ligrht brown in but- 
ter. Pour off all the fat, and put in some gjo i gravy, 
seasoned well with pepper and salt. When it boils, roll 
13 



194 The Canadian Economist. 

some butter and flour together and put to it. Keep shak- 
ing the pan till the gravy is of a proper thickness, and 
the cucumbers and onions well covered with it, and then 
serve it very hot. 

SEA KALE. 

Cookery Made easy. 

Sea Kale is to be dressed exactly in the same manner 
as asparagus ; it must be served u|) on toast, with melted 
butter. It is not good unless quite fresh, which you will 
know by its being crisp and a bright colour on the edge 
of the leaves. 

WINDSOR LONG PODS OR BROAD BEANS. 

Cooking Made Easy. 

They must be shelled into a pan of clear water, and be 
boiled in plenty of water, with salt first dissolved in it, 
and skimmed, and they should be served up under boiled 
bacon or pickled pork garnished with parsley boiled and 
minced, and parsley and butter sauces. 

STEWED ONIONS, 

Cooking Made Easy. 

Take five or six large Spanish onions, or a dozen middle 
sized ones, scald and peel them, and cut out the roots, put 
them into a stewpan, pour over them good broth, enough 
to cover them, and let them simmer slowly, closely cov- 
ered, for about two hours. Salt them to your taste. 
Serve them up with the broth they were stewed in poured 
over them. 

TO BOIL POTATOES. 

Cooking Made Easy. 

Each boiling of potatoes should be as. much as possible 
of the same size. Wash them very clean with a brush 



Beets. 1«5 

and plenty of water, and wash out the dirt from the eyes 
particularly, without paring or scraping them ; they will 
require a good washing or else they will have an earthy 
taste. When you boil them, put them into a pot with 
cold water, just enough to cover them, with half a hand- 
ful of salt. If they are large throw in a cup of cold 
water when they begin to boil, and repeat it now and 
then till they are boiled to the heart, which will take 
from half an hour to an hour and a quarter, according 
to their size ; but if they are small ones, they will not 
take so long a time, nor require any cold water to stop 
their boiling ; but the slower they are cooked the better, 
provided they are kept simmering, which is quite suffi- 
cient. When they are soft enough to admit the fork 
easily to the heart of them, they are done. Then pour 
off the water and put the pot once more over the fire 
without the cover for a minute or two, but not longer, 
which makes them dry and mealy, and turn them out, 
pull off the skins and serve them up. 

TL'KNIPS. 

Economical Cook Book: 

Pare and quarter the turnips and put them in a pot of 
clear water, or with fresh meat. Boil them half an hour ; 
drain and season them with butter, pepper and salt. 
Wash them. 

BEETS. 

Economical Cook Book. 

Wash the beets ; cut the tops off and put them in boil- 
ing water ; the early turnip beet is best for summer and 
will boil in less than an hour ; the long winter beet should 
be boiled two hours, — when they are done, drop them in 
cold water for a minute ; peel and slice them, season with 
butter, pepper and salt ; send them hot to table. 

To pickle beets, put them in a jar after they have been 



190 Tlie Canadian Economist, 

boiled ; Kll it up with weak vinegar ; put in salt, cayenne 
and black pepper. 

EGG PLANT. 

Economical Cook Book. 

Cut it in thin slices, let it soak in salt water (or just 
salt bet\veen the slices) for several hours. Wipe the 
pieces dry, pepper them, dip each piece in an egg which 
has been beaten a little, then dip them in grated crackers, 
fry them in dripping, or half an ounce lard and half ounce 
butter. 

VEGETABLES. 

True Guide to Housekeeping. 

Parsnips should be kept down cellar, covered up in 
sand, entirely excluded from the aii-. They are good only 
in the spring. Cabbage put into a hole into the ground 
will keep well during the winter, and be hard, fresh, and 
sweet, in the spring. Many farmers keep potatoes in the 
same way. Onions should be kept very dry, and never 
carried into the cellar, except in severe weather, when 
there is danger of their freezing. By no means let them 
be in the cellar after March, they w^ill sprout and spoil. 
Potatoes should likew^ise be carefully looked to in the 
spring and the sprouts broken off. The cellar is the best 
place for them, because they are injured by wilting, but 
sprout them carefully, if you want to keep them. They 
never sprout but three times, therefore, after you have 
sprouted them three times, they will trouble you no more. 
Squashes should never be kept down cellar wdien it is pos- 
sible to prevent it. Dampness injures them. If intense 
cold makes it necessary to keep them there for a while, 
bring them up as soon as possible and keep them in some 
warm dry place. Cabbages need to be Iwiled an hour ; 
beets an hour and a half ; the lower part of a squash should 
be boiled half an hour ; the neck pieces fifteen or t^venty 
minutes longer ; parsnips should boil an hour or an hour 



Vegetables. 197 

and a quarter, according to size ; new jx)tatoes should boil 
fifteen or twenty minutes ; three-quarters of an hour, or an 
hour is not too much for large old potatoes ; common sized 
ones half an hour. In the spring it is a good plan to cut 
off a slice from the seed end of the potatoes before you 
cook them, the seed end is opposite to that which grew 
upon the vine, the place where the vine was broken oft*, 
may be easily distinguished. By a provision of nature, 
the seed end becomes watery in the spring, and unless cut 
off it is apt to injure the potato. If you wish to have 
potatoes mealy do not let them stop boiling for an instant ; 
and when they are done, turn the water off and let them 
steam for ten or twelve minutes over the fire ; see they 
don't stay long enough to burn the kettle. Another way 
is to cut oft' all the skin and put them in pans to be cooked 
over the stove by steam. Those who have eat them say 
they are mealy and white, looking like large snowballs 
when brought upon the table. Potatoes boiled and mashed 
while hot are good to use in making short cakes and pud- 
dings, they save flour, and less shoi-tening is necessary. 
Green peas should be boiled from twenty to forty minutes, 
accordincj to their age ; string V)eans the same. Corn 
should be boiled from twenty to forty minutes, accord- 
ing to age. Dandelion half an hour or three-quarters, ac- 
cording to age. Dandelions are much improved by cultiva- 
tion ; if cut off without injuring the root, they will spring 
up again fresh and tender till late in the sea.son. Beet 
tops should be boiled twenty minutes, and spinach three 
or four minutes. Put in no gi-een vegetables till the water 
boils, if you would keep all their sweetness. When green 
peas have become old and yellow, they may be made ten- 
der and green by sprinkling in a pinch or two of pearlash 
while they are boiling. Pearlash has the same effect upon 
all summer vegetables, rendered tough by being too old. 
If your well water is very hard, it is alwa\'s an advanta,ge 
to use a little pearlash in cooking. Tomatoes should be 
skinned by pouring boiling water over them. After they 



198 The Canadian Economist. 

are skinned, they should be stewed half an hour, in tin, 
with a little salt and a small bit of butter and a spoonful 
of water to keep them from burning. This is a delicious 
vegetable. It is easily cultivated, and yields a n:ost 
abundant crop. Some people pluck them green and pickle 
them. The best sort of catsup is made from tomatoes. 
The vegetables should be squeezed up in the hand, salt put 
to them and set by for twenty-four hours. After being 
passed through a sieve, cloves, allspice, pepper, mace, gar- 
lic, and whole mustard-seed should be added. It should 
be boiled down one-third, and bottled after it is cool. No 
liquid is necessary, as the tomatoes are very juicy. A 
good deal of salt and spice is necessary to keep catsup 
well. It is delicious with roast meat ; and a oupful adds 
much to the richness of soup and chowder. The garlic 
should be taken out before it is bottled. Celery should be 
kept in the cellar, the roots covered with tan, to keep them 
moist. Green squashes that are turning yellow, and striped 
squashes are more uniformly sweet and mealy than any 
other kind. If the tops of lettuce be cut off, when it is 
becoming too old for use, it will grow up again fresh and 
tender, and may thus be kept good through the summer. 

It is a good plan to boil onions in milk and water; it 
diminishes the strong taste of that vegetable. It is an 
excellent way of serving up onions, to chop them after 
they are boiled, aud put them in a stewpan, with a little 
milk, butter, salt and pepper, and let them stew about 
fifteen minutes. This gives them a fine fiavour and they 
can be served up very hot. 

LIMA AXD BUTTER BEANS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Shell into cold water ; let them lie awhile ; put into a 
pot with plenty of boiling water and a little salt, and 
cook fast until tender. Large ones sometimes require 
nearly an hour's boiling. The average time is forty rain- 



Steu'ed Pumpkin. 199 

utes. Drain and butter well when dished, peppering to 
taste. 

KIDNEY AND OTHER SMALL BEANS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Shell into cold water and cook in boiling until tender 
A small piece of fat bacon boiled with them is an advan- 
tage to nearly all. If you do this, do not salt them, 

BOILED BEETS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Wash, but do not touch with a knife before they are 
boiled. If cut while raw they bleed themselves in the 
hot water. Boil until tender — if full-grown at least two 
hours. When done, rub off the skins, slice round if large, 
split if young, and butter well in the dish, salt and pep- 
per to taste. A nice w^ay is to slice them upon a hot dish, 
mix a great spoonful of melted butter with four or five 
of vinegar, pepper and salt, heat to boiling and pour over 
the beets. 

BOILED SEA KALE. 

Com,mon Sense in the Household. 

Tie up in bunches, when you have picked it over 
carefully, and lay in cold water for an hour. Put into 
salted boiling water and cook for twenty or thirty min- 
utes until tender. Lay some slices of buttered toast in 
the bottom of a dish, clip the threads binding the stems 
of the sea kale, and pile upon the toast, buttering it abun- 
dantly. Or, you can send around with a boat of drawn 
butter. 

STEWED PUMPKIN. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Cut in two, extract the seed, slice and pare. Cover 
with cold water for an hour ; put over the fire in a j>ot of 



200 The Canadian Economist. 

boiling water and stew gently, stirring often, until it breaks 
to pieces. Drain and squeeze, run through a collander, 
then return to the saucepan, with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, pepper and salt to taste. Stir rapidly from the bot- 
tom until very hot, then dish, rounding into a mound 
with dabs of pepper on the top. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Choose button mushrooms of uniform size. Wipe, 
clean and white with a wet flannel cloth, and cut off the 
stalks. Put into a porcelain saucepan, cover with cold 
water, and stew very gently fifteen minutes. Salt to 
taste ; add a tablespoonful of butter, divided into bits and 
rolled in flour. Boil three or four nnnutes, stir in three 
tablespoonsful of cream, w^hipped up with an egg, .stir two 
minutes Avithout letting it boil, and serve. Or, rub them 
white, stew in water ten minutes ; strain partially and 
cover with as much w^arm milk as you have poured oft' 
water ; stew Ave minutes in this. Salt, pepper and add 
some veal or chicken gravy oi' drawn butter. Thicken 
with flour, wet in cold milk, and a beaten egg. 

BAKED BKANS. 

31rs. Thomas McKay. 

After washing them well, and taking out any bad ones 
Soak about a pint of beans (white) in watei-, put a piece 
of soda in the water, and let them steep all night. In 
the morning ])ut in a saucepan and let them boil slowly 
for two hours. About three-quarters of an hour before 
dinner, take three teacupsful of milk, a piece of butter 
about the size of a walnut, rub the butter and flour to- 
gether, add them to the milk with pepper, salt and sea- 
soning. Have a pudding dish buttered, put in a layer of 
the beans and some of the mixture over, another layer of 



Succato.sh. 201 

beans, and so on, until all are used up, and on the top put 
a layer of bread-crumbs, and above the crumbs a few bits 
of butter. Of coui-se, more milk, butter and flour can be 
used at discretion. Bake half an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

VEGETABLE MAUROW. 

1000 Domestic HinU. 

Vegetable marrow when young may be fried in butter ; 
when half-grown, plainly boiled or stewed with sauce. 
When boiled and cut into dice it makes an excellent gar- 
nish alternately with dice of young carrots, for boiled 
fowls. 

VALUE OF VEGETABLES. 

lOOO Domestic Hints. 

What the lime juice is to .sailors, so are the potash 
plants — such as, potatoes, turnips, carrots, asparagus, cab- 
bage, &;c. — to us on land. Without these potash plants, 
we should be liable to scurvy or similar diseases. Pota- 
toes do not contain so much nutriment nor so much starch 
as wheat flour or many other substtmces, but they contain 
this potash. If we were to discard potatoes and similar 
plants, and eat nothing but bread, we should undoubtedly 
sufter in our health ; because, though bread contains a 
large quantity of nitrogeneous matter, of starch, and of 
phosphates, yet it is deficient in potjish. 

SUCCATOSH. 

Mrs. Parr, Ottauxi. 

This is made from green corn and shelled cranbeny 
beans, although you can substitute any other beans, if 
you cannot get cranberry. Take two dozen cobs of corn, 
cut the corn off, and add a pint of the beans shelled ; if 
both are young and tender, ])ut to cook together in water 
enough to cover, and cook for an hour ; put in about a 



202 The Canadian Economist. 

quarter of a tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper to 
taste ; stir often to prevent burning, and dish in a deep 
vegetable disli, 

TOMATOES AS A MEDICINE. 

The Presbyterian. 

The tomato is a strong aperient, and has been proved 
to be a wonderfully effective curative agent for liver and 
kidney affections. 

YOUNG POTATOES. 

How to Cook Potatoes in a Hundred Diferent Ways. 

Wash and skin some young potatoes, boil them quickly 
in a little water, to which is added the juice of a lemon ; 
w^hen done, drain them from the water, and put them into 
a stewpan with some butter rolled in a small quantity of 
flour ; moisten with milk or stock, thicken the sauce with 
the beaten yolk of an egg; season to taste, and when 
quite hot serve. 

POTATOES. 

Hoiv to Cook Potatoes in a Hundred Diferent Ways. 

Toast some nice slices of bread, divested of crust, and 
cut of a uniform size of about two inches each way; dip 
them into either ketchup, gravy or milk ; place a good 
dessertspoonful of mashed potatoes on each stew, salt and 
cayenne pepper them, and serve hot. 

IRISH STEW. 

How to Cook Potatoes in a Hundred Diferent Ways. 

Wash, peel and slice twelve good sized potatoes ; place 
a piece of mutton at the bottom of a stewpan ; sprinkle 
upon it a little shred onion, then put in the potatoes, 
shake them in the stewpan to make them as compact as 
possible, add some pepper and salt, and pour in just 



Irish Steu: 



203 



enough water to cover the potatoes ; bake it slowly in an 
oven for about two houi-s, and serve in a deep dish — the 
meat in the middle and the potatoes placed around it. 
The meat may be cut up, if preferred, and baked in a 
covered tui-een or hash dish, in which the stew may be 
served. 




CHAPTER XIII. 



YEAST BREAD AND BISCUIT. 

The Economical Cook Book. 

r I '^HE staff of life on which we lean for bodily comfort 
1. thrice every day, should never be made but of the 
best materials— our health and comfort depending much 
thereupon. Many a confirmed dyspepsia has been induced 
by the habitual parlaking of heavy, sour or ill-baked 
bread : owing in some cases to the ignorance or indiffer- 
ence of the maker and baker, in others, from the want of 
the best materials and the use of a poor stove or range. 

HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Mrs. H. F. Bronson, Ottawa. 

Boil a handful of hops half an hour, in three pints of 
water, pour half of it boiling hot through a sieve, on to 
nine spoonsful of flour, mix, and then add the rest of the 
hot water. Add a spoonful of salt, half a cupful of mo- 
lasses, and when blood warm a cupful of yeast. 

YEAST. 

The Eiionomical Cook Book. 

Take one handful of good hops put them in a little bag 
in one quart of water to boil. Pare six large potatoes 
and put in the heater. When the latter are soft, pass 
them through a colander (moistening the whole with a 
little of the hot water), now squeeze out the bag and re 
turn the pulp made to the water and let the whole be 



Brown lii't'iid. 20-5 

stirred and just come to a boil. In this hot state pour it 
on sufficient iiour to make a thiunish batter. When tepid 
add half a pint of yeast. This is fit for use in the even- 
ing, if made in the morning. Put it in a crock with a lid 
in a cool place. 

WHEAT BREAD. 

The Economical Cook Bool: 

Boil one quart of milk and let it become coolish, then 
mix with it flour enough to make a very stiff batter, add 
half a pint of the above-named yeast, beat it very smooth, 
add two tablespoonsful of salt. Let it stand till light, 
then knead it well. Let it rise. Mould and put it in 
pans; stand half an hour. If milk is not convenient, 
water will do. The above quantity makes four medium 
sized loaves. The oven should be very varm, not very 
Jiot, and slowly getting hotter. 

TO MAKE YEAST CAKES. 

Mrs. H. F. Branson, Oitaua. 

When the above yeast is fully risen so that it begins to 
settle down in the pan, add Indian meal as much as can 
be worked into it and then roll it out with the hands on 
the board, in long rolls like the shape of the rolling-pin, 
then press it down on the board, until the side next the 
board is flat, then as it lies cut it in thin slices, about half 
an inch in thickness, and then withdraw the slices a little 
apart, just so that the air can pass between them, taking 
care that they don't fall over, but stand in rows as they 
are cut. Set them in a cool place in the wind but not in 
the sun to dry. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Baldivin, Ottawa. 

One cupful of flour, Graham is best, two cupsful of 
Indian meal, half a cupful of syrup or brown sugar, one 



200 Tin I , L,:unu„,,sl. 

teaspooiiful of ginger, one teas])oonful of soda dissolved 
in water, a little salt. Stir in sour milk enough to make 
a stiff batter, steam four hours, then bake in the oven, long 
enough to make a crust. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mrs. li. Blackbwrn, Neiv Edinhvrgh. 

One agg, one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, one cupful and a half of milk, one teaspoouful 
of salt, three even teaspoonsful of baking powder, in Gra- 
ham flour, enough to make a stiff batter (hot pans and hot 
oven). 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Mrs. Cruehet, Montreal. 

One teaspoonfiil of salt in a quart of flour, sift it, beat 
three eggs, put one tablespoonful of sugar in them, then put 
in the eggs and a small cupful of jjotato yeast ; make them 
at eight or nine o'clock in the evening, put them to rise, 
in the morning cut out rolls and bake for breakfast. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Into a pan of boiling water, first stir a little salt, and 
then as much Graham flour as would make a good dough, 
let it cool somewhat, and then stir three quarters of a cup- 
ful of yeast, add a lump of butter and half a teacupful of 
sugar, when sufficiently light, knead, mould into any de- 
sired shape. Rise again and bake. 

HOT CROSS BUNS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Set a sponge as you would for bread, next morning 
beat up two eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, two 
teaspoonsful of sugar, mix just to keep it from sticking. 



2o: 



DIET BKtAi'. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Put three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar into a 
saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of water over a steady 
fire, and stir it till it is dissolved. Beat six eggs with a 
whisk in a pan, when the sugar boils, pour it gently on 
the eggs, keeping it well beat till cold ; then stir it into 
three-quarters of a pound of fine sifted fiour, have your 
frames papered, till them three parts full with the batter, 
sift sugar over them and bake in a steadv oven. 

SPANISH BUXS. 

MisH Elliott, Guelph. 

Two cupsful of sugar, three-quartei-s of a cupful of butter, 
one cupful milk, two good teaspoonsful of allspice, and two 
of cinnamon, five eggs keeping out the whites of two, one 
tablespoonlul of baking powder, flour enough to make a 
stifi" batter. When baked spread over with the white of 
egg beaten to a stifl" froth, with a little sugar and return 
to the oven for a few minutes with the door open. 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

MvM. J. H. P. Gibson. 

Take a quart of unsifted flour, add to it two heaping 
teaspoonsful uf baking powder, then mix and sift them 
thoroughly together. Take more or less sweet milk as you 
may think necessarj^ to form a dough of usual stiffness, 
according to the flour about three quarters of a pound, put 
into the milk with a little .salt and stir in half of the flour 
with a spoon. Have ready in a bowl a tablespoonful of 
butter or lard, made soft by warming and stirring to a 
cream. Stir this into the batter with the rest of the 
flour, forming the dough w^hich turn out on a board and 
knead sufficiently to make smooth, roll out half an inch 



208 The Caiuitlian J'Jcoiiuiuist. 

thick and cut with a large round cutter, then fold each 
one over to make a half round, wetting a little between 
folds to make them stick together. Place them on buttered 
pans so as not to touch, wash them over on top to give 
them a gloss and then bake immediately in a hot oven, 
about twenty minutes. 

It will do them no harm to let them stand half an hour 
before baking, if it is desired. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Mrs. G. M. Hutchison. 

Two quarts of flour, one cupful of yeast, one pint of milk 
(boiled, then cooled to luke warm}, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one tablespoonful of sugar. Leave enough of the 
two quarts of flour for rolling out- — bake as soon as ready. 

POTATO ROLLS. 
Mrs. G. M. Hutchison. 

Take one potato at noon and mash, put water enough 
to moisten, and one teaspoonful of Gillet's yeast, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one cupful of sugar, four tablespoonsf ul 
of milk, two tablespoonsful of baking-powder, three eggs, 
one large cupful of flour, butter round tins and bake in a 
quick oven, when cool put jelly between the layers. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston. 

Rub into two quarts of sifted flour, two large spoonsful 
of butter, and a teaspoonful of salt, one pint of milk 
scalded and two-thirds of a cupful of yeast, half a cupful of 
sugar, make a sponge of them in the middle of the pan of 
flour. Let it rise over night. In the morning mix in the 
remainder of flour, allow it to rise again, and then cut in- 
to biscuits and when light rub a little melted butter over 



Bakers Bread. 209 

each and bake in a quick oven. This receipt makes 
forty-five rolls.- 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston. 

Two cupsf ul of corn-meal, two cupsful of rye-meal, two- 
thirds of a cupful of flour, two teaspoonsful of soda evened 
off, sour milk just enough to make it. stiff for cake, half a 
cupful of molasses, salt to the taste. Steam four hours. 

ENGLISH BISCUITS. 

Mrs. W. Kennedy, Owen Sound. 

Take three pounds of flour, sift it well, six teaspoonsful 
of baking-powder, a little salt, two cupsf ul of butter (well 
rubbed in) or lard and butter mixed, two cupsful of cur- 
rants, half a cupful of Carroway seeds. Cut one lemon 
peel in thin slices and mix one cupful of sugar. Mix all 
together with milk into a smooth dough (not stiff), roll out 
once or twice to the thickness of an inch, cut out with a 
round cutter and bake in bread [)ans, in a moderately hot 
oven. They are very nice for luncheon, tea or breakfast, 
hot or cold. 

GRAH.VM GEMS. 

Miss Sarah Lanahan, Ottawa. 

One cupful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of butter, two 
eggs, one and a half teacupful of uulk, two tea.spoonsful of 
baking powder, three teacupsful of Graham Hour. Bake 
in gem pans for fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

baker's BREAD. 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte, 

Yeast — Boil half an ounce of hops in three pints of 
water for twenty minutes, strain, pour the water upon 
half a pound of flour when lukewai'm, add one pint stale 
14 



210 TJie Canadian Economist. 

yeast, keep it moderately warm for twenty-four hours* 
Boil ten or twelve potatoes, pound them along with half 
a pound of flour, add one quart of yeast, keep it warm for 
eight hours. Heat the oven, add live quarts of cold water 
one quart of hot, strain it into the trough with the salt, 
if fresh flour add one and a quarter ounces of salt to one 
quart of water, if stale, one ounce is sufficient. Allow it 
to stand for two hours or until the sponge begins to drop, 
then add one quart of water and the rest of the salt, work 
it well and allow it to stand from half an hour to an hour 
and a half, according to the heat of the weather, then 
give it a good working and put it in the pans until the 
oven is ready. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. D. F. McLaren, Portage da Fort. 

One quarter pound of hops, boil in a bag and pour on 
to three pounds of Hour and half a pound of sugar. Let 
stand for two days, then add three pounds of potatoes, 
and a spoonful of salt. When risen enough set in a cool 
place it will keep for three months. 

HOP YEAST. 

Mrs. McQiiaiTie. 

Take eight potatoes, peel them and put them to boil in 
three quarts of water, boil with them a handful of hops 
tied in a muslin bag. Let it boil until the potatoes are 
all quite soft, then put them into a wide mouthed jar and 
mash them fine. Add seven tablespoonsful of flour, one- 
half cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of salt. Pour the 
Avater in which the potatoes have been boiling over the 
mixture, which should have been stirred until very 
smooth ; let it stand until lukewarm, then add a teacup- 
ful of good yeast. Let it remain in a warm oven for 
twenty-four hours, then cover close and put in a cool 
place." This yeast wiilj^keep good for three months. 



Bye Bread. 211 

POTATO YEAST. 

Mis. (Bev.) J. M. Macalister, Ashtou. 

Half a dozen good sized potatoes peeled and grated, a 
handful of hops steeped in boiling water, with which ta 
cook the potatoes as soon as grated, for if allowed to stand 
they will darken, and the yeast will not be as white. 
While boiling add half a cupful of sugar, a handful of salt, 
and when lukewarm a cupful of yeast. Let it rise and 
stir down several times before putting away. Do not fill 
the jug quite full. 

BINS. 

Mrs. {Bev.) J. McEwen, lagersolL 

One pint of milk scalded, one quart of flour, three table 
spoonsful of sugar, two tablesjx)onsful of butter, rubbed 
in the flour, half a cupful of yeast. When light, roll out 
the dough, cut, spread with butter. Fold over and bake. 

BROWN ROLLS. 

Mrs. A. Macalister, Kingston. 

Two quarts and one pint of brown flour, one small break- 
fast cupful of sugar, one small teaspoonful of salt, one 
quart and half a pint of milk or warm water, three table- 
spoonsful of yeast, to be put in last. One small table- 
spoonful of the mixture to be dropped in for each roll. 
If for breakfast set at night : for tea. in the mornincr. 
This quantity makes about three pans, one dozen in each. 
Oven as for bread — not to be covered when taken out, 

RYE BREAD. 

Take one small cupful of yeast, .six hot boiled potatoes, 
mashed perfectly fine, three pint cupsful of lye flour, two 
tablespoonsful of brown sugar and one quart of warm 
water. Let this sponge rise over night aft«r being well 
stin'ed up. Next morning stir one pint of Indian meal, 



212 The Canadian Econoraist. 

and rye flour enough to knead well. Let it rise again 
thoroughly, then divide into loaves, put into a warm place 
and let it rise for half an hour. Rye meal prepared like 
Graham flour makes very nice rye gems, when mixed up 
with water and a little salt ; but a third of the quantity 
of wheat or Graham, added to the rye, gives them a more 
delicate taste, and it is an improvement to mix the rye 
and wheat meal, and sift them together through a sieve, 
removing the coarsest part of the bran. 

RYE BISCUIT. 

Make a dough with one pint of milk, flour, and yeast, 
and one tablespoonful of melted butter, and three of sugar. 
Stir as stiff" as a spoon can make it with the flour. Rise 
it over night, and drop it into gem pans or biscuit tins 
the next morning. Bake for half an hour in a hot oven. 

KYE llOLLS. 

Take one pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, a little 
salt, a tablespoonful of lard, and three of sugar, and 
stir into it enough rye flour to make a very stiff" bat- 
ter ; then put wheat flour on your hands and take up as 
much as a large spoonful of the dough, and roll it out on 
the board as you do twisted doughnuts ; and when rolled 
long enough, twist it up into a round cake like a jumble, 
and bake on flat tins. A delicious roll for supper. 

BROWN BREAD. 

(Jne quart of rye meal, two of Indian meal, and two 
tablespoonsful of molasses ; mix thoroughly with sweet 
milk, let it stand one hour, and then bake in a slow oven, 

WHEATEN BREAD. 

One spoonful of hop yeast, two potatoes boiled, and 
one pint of water. Make a sponge, and when light or 
sufficiently raised, mix hard and let rise, and when it is 
light again, mould it over, and bake while light. 



Bread. 21o 



ANOTHER WAY. 



Grate six potatoes, and add one quart of water, put in 
one cupful of hop yeast at night, and in the morning when 
light, add three tablespoonsful of sugar and flour, enough 
to form a dough. Let it nse, and when light put it in 
tins : let it rise asfain and bake for half an hour. 



BISCUITS. 



Take some of the bread-dough in the morning, as much 
as would make a loaf of bread, and add one cupful of but- 
ter ; mix well, let it rise, and then make into biscuit. Let 
it rise again, and then bake. 

CORN BREAD. .., 

Take one coffee-cupful of sweet milk and the same of sour 
cream, half a cupful of sugar, and one leaspoonfulof salera- 
tus, two eggs, and half a cupful of wheat flour ; thicken to a 
stiff" Ijatter. 

BREAD. 

Miss M. 

For two ordinar}' sized loaves take two potatoes, pirr, 
slice very thin, boil quick until very soft, then mash to a 
fine pulp, and add, little by little, two quai-ts of boiling 
water, stirring until a starch is formed ; let this cool, antl 
thenadd one-third of a cupful of yeast. Thjsforms a spongo, 
which should remain in a moderately wana place for ten 
or twelve hours, or over night, until it becomes very light 
and frothy ; if a little sour, no consequence. When the 
sponge is ready, add flour, and work it until you have 
formeda stiff', firm mass. The longer and more fimily 
kneaded, the better the bread. Let it rise from a half to 
three-quarters of an hour. Then divide it into pans. Let 
it remain about fifteen minutes. Take care that it does not 
rise too much and crack. Put the loaves into a quick 
oven and bake three-quarters of an hour. If the oven is 



214 ' The Canadian Economist. 

not hot enough the bread will rise too much and crack ; 
if too hot, it will harden too rapidly, and confine the loaf. 

CORN AND WHEAT BREAD. 

Miss M. 

Stir two teacupsful of white meal in a pint of hot water 
for each loaf ; free it of lumps, and let it stand twenty- 
four hours. Boil two or three potatoes, peel and mash in 
a pint of water, which thicken with Hour till it is stifl' 
batter ; then add half a teacupf ul of baker's yeast. Use 
one-third scalded meal, two-thirds flour. Knead all to- 
gether with a little salt, work it well, and mould in pans 
to rise moderately ; then bake at first in a hot oven. 

^ HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Miss M. 

A small handful of ho])s put to boil in a little less than 
a quart of water (boiling) for a quarter of an hour ; .strain 
boiling hot on four large spoonsful of flour. Stir up and 
pour on to a little old yeast and two mashed potatoes 
well beat up with a large teaspoonful of sugar. Let it 
stand till it rises and falls; then keep it well corked. To 
make bread, take a, small teacupful and put it into the 
flour, with a small half-pint of warm water ; stir up till 
the thickness of batter, draw a little flour over it, let it 
rise till it cracks, then add salt and enough warm water, 
mix well and put into the dish, let it rise till it cracks, 
then work it over lightly and put into pans ; let it rise 
half an hour, then bake in a slow oven. 

RICE BREAD. 

Mrs. McTavisli, Osgoodc. 

One cupful of rice, one and one -half pints of flour, one 
teaspoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two of 
baking powder, one-half pint of milk. Boil the rice in one 



Buiif<. 215 

pint of water with a pinch of salt in it until the water is 
entirely absorbed, then add the milk. Sift together the 
flour, sugar, salt and powder, which, add to the rice pre- 
paration, let stand till cold. Mix all together smoothly 
and well. Pour into a greased tin and bake in a moderate 
oven forty minutes. Protect with paper fifteen minutes. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Mrs. Stoiy, Otfaiva. 

One handful of hops boiled in one quart of water with four 
potatoes ; when potatoes are done peel and biiiise and add 
two handsful of flour and one tablespoonful of salt, then 
strain the hop-water upon the ingredients, stirring until 
all lumps are removed ; when cold add a little c|^d yeast 
and jar up. Will be ready for use in tv/o days. 

GEMS. 

Mrs. Story, OttciAva. 

Two eggs, two tablespoonsful of butter, two cupsful of 
milk, one tablespoonful sugar, one dessertspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, add enough flour to make a stiff" batter. 
Grease the gem pans and heat until very hot and drop 
the batter in, and bake in a quick oven. 

YEAST. 

Miss Stapley, Belleville. 

Ten good sized potatoes, peeled, boiled, and mashed fine ; 
then mix with two quarts of boiling water, add a cupful 
of sugar, and when mi Ik- warm a pint of yeast. 

BUNS. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottavja. 

One pint of milk, two quarts of flour, one egg, two table- 
spoonsful of sugar, one small piece of butter, one-half cup- 



210 The Canadian Economist. 

ful of yeast. Make into a doui^h and set over night. 
Knead in the morning, set to rise ; knead and form into 
buns and bake. Same recipe does very well for dough nuts. 

BISCUIT. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Eight cupsful of flour, eight teaspoonsful of baking 
powder, salt, one and a-quarter cupsful of buttermilk. 
Roll and bake. 

HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Mrs. Thomson, Point Fortune, Que. 

Three pints water, two raw potatoes sliced, two table- 
spoonsful of hops. Boil all together fifteen minutes, then 
pour through a colander into a pan and stir in flt-nr until 
it is the thickness of a thin Latter. When well mixed 
add a tablespoonful of ginger ami a tablespoonful of sugar 
After this is cool add five tablespoonsful of prepared 
yeast, mix all well together, then put in a jar and set to 
rise. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

Mix together as for bread, one quart of Graham meal, 
two spoonsful of molasses, one teaspoonful of lard, two 
spoonsful of wlieat flour, one half a cupful of yeast and 
salt. Let it stand all night to rise ; put in muffin rings, let 
them stand half an hour and then bake. 

SCONS. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Two pounds of flour, one-quarter pound of butter, one- 
half ounce of cream of tartar, one-half ounce of baking 
soda, and sweet milk enough to mix up in a soft dough. 



Bread Dough Buns. 217 

EXCELLENT GKRMAN BUNS. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Two pounds of flour, one-half pound of butter, one-half 
pound of sugar, one-quarter pound of peel, one egg, one 
and one-quaiter pints milk, one-quarter ounce cream of 
tartar, one-half ounce of baking soda. 

HERMIT BISCUIT. 

Mrs. {Rev) David Wardrope, Teesivater. 

Two pounds of flour, one-quarter pound of butter, four- 
teen ounces of white sugar, two eggs, one ounce of volatile 
salts, and milk enough to form a dough. Rub the butter 
into the flour, then add the sugar, then the eggs well 
beaten, then the salts dissolv^ed in hot water and allowed 
to cool, then sweet milk to form a pretty Arm dough. 
Roll thin, cut in round cakes, wet the tops with milk and 
turn them on to pulverized sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 

BISCUIT. 

Mrs. White, Hamilton. 

One quart of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, 
a little salt ; rub in a tablespoonful of butter ; then add 
sufficient milk or water to make a very soft dough ; do 
not knead much ; bake in a verj' quick oven. 

BREAD DOUGH BUNS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Take a piece of bread-dough, working a little butter 
into it ; knead it well ; divide it into small bits ; knead 
until smooth and round ; let them rise ; when light knead 
them again ; dip them in melted butter to keep them 
from sticking; when half done wet them over with milk, 
and dust sugar over them ; then bake quickly ; are not 



218 "The Canadian Economist. 

nice overdone ; part of them may be rolled out and 
folded over with a raisin in the folds. If an egg is added 
with the butter it improves them. 

CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. White, Hamilton. 

One teaeupful of corn meal, two teaeupsf ul of flour, two 
ounces of butter, two eggs, two teaspoonsful of baking- 
powder, half a teaeupful of sugar, half a teaeupful of milk ; 
bake in a quick oven ten minutes. 

HARD BISCUITS. 

Anonymous. 

Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk 
as will make a pound of flour, into a very stiff" paste ; beat 
it with the rolling pin and work it very smooth ; roll it 
thin and cut it into hard biscuits ; prick them full of 
holes with a fork ; about ten minutes will bake them. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Anonymous. 

Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; mix an 
Qgg beaten, a little yeast, as much butter and as much 
milk as will make a dough of middling stiffness ; beat 
w^ell, but do not knead ; let it rise and bake on tins. 

From Miss Parloas Working Womens Lectures. 

YEAST BREAD. 

Per Mrs. Humphreys, Providence, R.I. 

Two quarts of flour w^ill make four loaves, or three 
loaves and a ymn of biscuit. Add to the flour half a 
tablespoonful of salt, and the same quantity of sugar ; one 
half tablespoonful of butter or lard ; omit this if you prefer 
half a cupful of yeast or half a cake ; nearly three-fourths 



English Seed Bread. 210 

of a quart of water ; sift the flour into the bread -pan, 
saving a little to knead with : add the other ingredients, 
having the water about blood-warm, or 9G^. If the water 
is cold it will not begin to rise soon enough, and it will 
not be good if it rises too slowly. Knead the dough 
thoroughly on the bread-board for twenty or thirty 
minutes ; leave it over night. In the morning shape into 
loaves and rolls, and let it rise again ; if put where the 
heat is 100^, it will rise in an honr ; it is better to let it 
rise an hour and a half or two houi-s, at a temperature of 
75^ In kneading do not press the dough down, but 
flatten it with the palm of the hand, then fold and'push 
from you with a light touch, repeating the folding motion 
constantly in order to enclose as much air as possible in 
the dough. Do not use much flour in the kneading. Let 
rolls rise longer than loaves, as they do. not rise so long 
in the oven, being so small that the heat penetrates them 
sooner. It is not well to bake a number of loaves in one 
pan, but to give each one its separate pan. 

DIET BREAD. 

To half a pound of sifted sugar put four eggs ; beat 
them together for an hour, then add a quarter pound of 
flour, dried and sifted, with thie juice of half a lemon, and 
the grated rind of a whole one ; bake it in a .slow oven 
Or, boil one pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water ; 
whisk it with eight eggs until cold; then stir in one 
pound of flour, and keep beating until it is put into the 
oven, which, if it be quick, will bake it in an hour-. 

ENGLISH SEED BREAD. 

One pint of milk warm ; one teacupful of lard and butter 
mixed and melted in the milk ; one cupful of yeast ; two 
cupsful of sugar; three eggs ; make into a light sponge that 
is not as stiff as bread sponge ; when very light add one 
nutmeg and can-away seed, and if liked, some ciurants. 
Mix into the sponge and then add suflicient flour to make 



220 The Canadian Economist. 

it stiff enough to handle on the board ; put it into the 
bread-pan to rise aoain, and when very light, mould into 
rusks or a loaf, with just sufficient flour to handle it. It 
should rise in the baking pans very well and bake in a 
moderate oven. Be sure not to make it at any time stifi 
It is very well to put it to rise at bed-time, and the first 
thing in the morning add s{)ices, etc., and put it to rise 
again. 

BATH BUNS. 

Take a pound and a half of fine flour, three-quarters of 
a pound of sifted and powdered loaf sugar, one pound of 
butter, three yolks and two whites of fresh eggs ; grate 
the rind of a Jemon, add the juice, and mix all the ingre- 
dients well together, and make them into small round 
cakes; put a few well- washed currants into the middle 
of each bun, and wash them over with error loaf sugar 
and some comfits ; bake them in a moderate oven. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Make a sponge by boiling four good-sized potatoes ; 
when soft mash fine ; then stir in a cupful of flour ; pour on 
the water in which the potatoes were boiled scalding hot, 
and if not suflicient to make three pints of the mixture, 
add cold water. When the milk is warm put in a teacupful 
of soft yeast, and set in a moderately warm place to rise. 
After it becomes light, put in a teacupful of good brown 
sugar (white is not good), and stir in Graham flour until 
thick enough to drop heavily into the greased baking- 
pans. Let it rise again, and bake in a moderately hut 
oven forty minutes. This quantity will make two large 
loaves, and when taken from the oven should be allowed 
to stand five minutes before removal from the pan;^. 
Sheet-iron bread-pans are^ much to be preferred to tin for 
any bread, but especially for Graham, baking more slowly 
and much more evenly. If the sponge seems at all sour, 
add a little soda. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
TEA AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 

CORN CAKE. 

Mu8 Bernj, Toronto. 

rr^AKE a cupful of milk, half sweet and half sour, one 
_L egg, butter the sizj of a walnut, two tablespoonsful 
of white sugar, half a tea.spoonful of soda and a little salt, 
mix very soft, using two-third Indian meal to one-third 
flour. Bake in a (^uick oven. 

TEA CAKE. 

Miss Bei'ry, Toronto. 

One cup of sour milk, one cupful of raisins, one cupful 
of sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, two and a half 
cupsful of flour, dark spices. 

Rebecca's cake. 

Miss Berry., Tormito. 

One pint of flour, one cupful of milk, one cupful of 
sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, essence of lemon to taste. 

STRAWBEIIRY SHORT CAKE. 

Mrs. Breckon, Ottawa. 

Three pints of flour, rub dry, two teaspoonsful of cream 
of tartar, and one of soda, two teacupsful of butter, salt. 



222 The Canadian Economist. 

milk enough to make a dough, bake in a hot oven, when 
done split it and spread with butter, covering it with 
sweetened strawberries. Serve hot. 

POP OVER t.'AKES. 

Mrs. Breckon, Ottaiva. 

One package of corn starch, six eggs, half a pound of 
sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, to be beaten 
well together, two teasj)oonsful of baking powder. Fill 
the pans more than half full ; bake in a moderate oven. 

VELVET CAKE. 

Mrs. Bangst. 

One pound of tlour, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of butter, one cupful of cold water, one tea- 
spoonful of soda put in the water, two teaspoonsful of 
cream of tartar, stirred in the flour four eggs. 

SPONGE CAKK. 

Mrs. Bangs. 

Half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of flour, five 
eggs beaten separately. Stir altogether tifteen minutes. 

ONE, TWO, THKEE, FOUR CAKE. 

Mis. Baptle. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four 
eggs Avell beaten, half a cupful of milk; half a teaspoonful 
of soda, one of cream of tartar. Season to taste. 

(JAKE. 

Mrs. Baptie. 

Three cupsful of sugar, three of flour, nine eggs, three 
teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one and a half of soda, 



Spice Cake. 223 

two cupsful of cocoa to be soaked in half a cupful of milk. 
Put the cocoa between each round. To be baked in round 
tins an inch and a half high. 

COCOA-NUT CAKE. 

Miss Magfjie Bunton, Bradford, Pa. 

Whites of five eggs, one and a half cupsful of sugar, one 
cupful of milk, one cupful of butter, four teaspoonsful of 
baking powder ; sugar and butter to be stirred to a cream, 
whites of eofcjs in last. Flour enouorh for thin batter; for 
layers, whites of three eggs, powdered sugar as thick as 
for icing, then spread on the cocoa-nut. 

COMMON CAKE. 

Miss Bell, Blyth. 

Half a cupful of butter, two eggs, one cupful of sugar, 
one cupful of milk, three teaspoonsful of baking powder, 
two cupsful of Hour, one nutmeg. 

CORN STARCH CAKE 

Mrs. Blyth. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, six eggs and lialf a 
cupful of sour milk, half a teaspoonful of soda,- one of 
cream of tartar, one paper corn starch. Mix cream of 
tartar Avith starch. Flavour with lemon. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. Booth, Ottavxi. 

One cupful and a half of sugar, one cupful of butter, six 
eggs, half a cupful of sweet milk, three cupsful of flour, 
two tablespoons of cinnamon, half a tablespoonful of cloves 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half of soda; sift soda, 
spices and cream of tartar into flour, add eggs last. 



224 The Canadian Economist. 

ELLEN'S CAKE. 

Mrs. Booth, Ottaiva. 

One cupful of sugar, three-quarters of a cupful of butter, 
three eggs, half a cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda,one and a half of cream of tartar. Beat butter and 
sugar to a cream, then add yolks, beat well, whip whites to 
a froth, then add to mixture ; sift cream of tartar into flour,* 
beat well, dissolve the soda in a little warm water, let 
this be the last thing to add. Drop into mixture very 
lightly. 

ELECTION CAKE. 

Miss Booth, Ottawa. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, half a pint 
of sour cream, seven eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
pound of fruit. Beat butter and sugar to a cream ; beat 
yolks and whites separately, add the flour to the mixture 
first ; then beat thoroughly ; dissolve soda in cream, 
dredge fruit in flour. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) R. Campbell, Renfrew. 

One package of corn starch, one pound of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, ten eggs, two teaspoonsful 
of baking powder ; flavour to taste. First beat sugar and 
butter to a cream, then yolks well beaten, next sta-rch and 
whites of eggs alternntely (the whites having been previ- 
ously beaten to a stiff froth.) The baking powder mixed 
in a handful of flour, and lastly flavouring. The above 
makes a cake in four partitions with icing between. 

CORN CAKE. 

Mrs. Breden. 

Butter, size of an egg, rubbed into one quart of corn 
meal, one teaspoonful of soda in one and a half pint of 



Corn-starch Patty Pans. 225 

sour milk, two tablespoonsful of sugar, half a teaspoonful 
of salt. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. Breden. 

One cupful of sugar, two eggs, half a cupful of butter, 
two cupsful of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, nutmeg. 

RAILROAD CAKE. 

Mrs. (Capt.) Cowley. 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, half a cupsful of sweet 
milk, half a cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, half of soda. Quick oven. 

MATRIMONY. 

Mrs. (Capt.) Cowley. 

Four eggs, one cupful of sugar, butter, size of an egg, one 
and a half cupful of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tai-tar, half of soda ; cut through the middle and spread on 
jelly. 

QUEEN CAKE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) R. Carti'phell, Renfrew. 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream, add one pound of 
sifted sugar; beat nine eggs very lightly and mix all 
together, add one pound of flour and half a pound of 
currants. Essence of vanilla to taste. 

CORN-STARCH PATTY PANS. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, six eggs, 
one cupful of flour, half a cupful of sweet milk, one 
package of com starch, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea- 
15 



226 The Canadian Economist. 

spoonsful of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of essence of 
lemon. 

SALLY LUNNS. 

Mrs. T. Christie. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one of sugar, one egg beaten, 
one pint of sweet milk, one quart of flour, with three tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder. Bake in iron muffin pans, 
having them well-heated and greased. Eat warm. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Miss J. N. Carmichael, Bryson. 

Make good biscuit crust, bake in three tins same shape 
and size. Mix the berries with plenty of sugar. Open 
the short cake, butter well and place the berries in layers, 
one over the other, until three are filled ; then lay over 
the cover, set the cake into the oven for five minutes. 
Sprinkle fine sugar over the top layer, and serve with 
sweet cream. 

COCOA-NUT CAKE. 

Miss J. N. Carmichael, Bryson. 

One cupful of butter, two sugar, one of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar, four eggs, 
three or four cupsful of flour, one teaspoonful of lemon 
— bake in layers like jelly-cake. Place the icing between 
the layers, also the gi-ated cocoa-nut. 

ORANGE SHORT-CAKE. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One quart of flour, a piece of butter the size of an e^g, 
rub well into the flour ; one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in the milk, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar sifted in 
the flour. Wet with sweet milk not very stiflT. Bake, 
then split the cake and spread with peeled oranges sliced 
and well covered with cream. 



Oyster Corn Cakes. 227 

CENTENNIAL CAKE. 

3Irs. Crochet, Montreal. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, half pound of 
butter, six Qgg?', one cupful of milk, half tea^poonful of 
soda, one of cream of tartar — flavour. 

COURT CAKE. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful of 
buttermilk, half a teaspoonful of soda, half a nutmeg, one 
|X)und of fruit, three cupsful of flour, four eggs ; when 
sufficiently beaten add the soda. Bake nearly one hour. 
Two loaves — very nice. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Mrs. Ci'uchet, Montreal. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of butter, one of sweet 
milk, three cupsful of flour, one cupful of currants, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one half teaspoon- 
ful of soda. 

queen's CAKE. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

Half a cupful of butter, one of sugar, two of flour, two 
eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartj\r, half a cupful of sweet milk, half a nutmeg — 
very nice. 

OYSTER CORN CAKES. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

Take one quart of green corn, cut from the ear with a 
coarse grater ; two teacupsful of milk, one of flour, two 
eggs well beaten. Season the batter with pepper and 
salt. Bake on a tn-iddle. 



228 The Canadian Economist. 

VELVET CAKE. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

Make a batter of one quart of milk, three eggs well 
beaten, a wineglass of yeast ; beat all w^ell together, then 
let it rise ; put into the flour a large spoonful of butter, 
beat this thoroughly. "When risen put into rauftin rings 
and bake on the griddle. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

One pint of Indian meal, half a cupful of sugar, three 
eggs, a tablespoonful of lard or butter, a small teaspoonful 
of soda, the same of cream of tartar, enough sweet milk or 
buttermilk to make a batter. Bake it slowly for at least 
five hours. 

SUGAR CAKE. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, seven eggs, 
one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, flour 
enough to make a stiff* dough. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Flour enough to make it roll, two eggs, piece of butter 
the size of an egg, a pinch of salt, potatoes enough to make 
a panful. 

RUSK. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

One pint of flour, one teacupful of sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, three of melted butter, one teaspoonful 
of soda, two of cream of tartar, two eggs, and a pinch 
of salt. 



Cream Muffi^ns. 229 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE, 

Miss Douglas, Kin'jston. 

Mix two heaping teaspoonsful of cream of tartar dry 
among three pints of flour, add half a teacupful of butter, 
a little salt, a pint of milk into which has been stirred a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Mix thoroughly, roll an inch in thickness. 
Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. One quart of 
strawberries, add cream and sugar to make sauce. When 
the cake is done divide it into three layers, butter them, 
and spread the strawberries between them. Eat while 
warm. 

COCOA-NUT CAKE. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, half a pound of butter, 
six eggs, one teasponnful of soda, two of cream of tartar, 
one cup of sweet milk. Icing the .same as for any other 
cake. Cocoa-nut sprinkled between each layer of cake. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Half a pound of sugar, one cupful of flour, five eggs- 
beat half an hour. Flavour with lemon. 

CUP CAKES. 

Mrs. James Dalgliesh . 

Three cups of flour, one and a half cups of sugar, one of 
butter, one of milk, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half 
a teaspoonful of soda. 

CREAM MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Donaldson, Mobile, Fa. 

One tumblerful of cream, one of flour, a little salt and two 
eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately. Beat the 



230 The Canadian Economist 

yolks, then add the cream, then the flour and salt and 
lastly stir in the whites. Bake quickly In patty pans. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

3frs. Dewar. 

One cupful of butter, one of sugar, one of molasses (not 
syrup), one of strong coffee, cold, one teaspoonful of soda. 
Fruit to taste, cinnamon and cloves, |one tablespoonful 
each, flour to make a stiff" batter. 

NUT CAKES. 

Mrfi. James Dalgliesh. 

Two cupsf al of sugar, one cupful of milk, two-thirds of 
a cupful of butter, three cupsful flour, three eggs, two tea- 
spoonsful baking powder, one cupful nut kernels. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

31 VS. James Dalgliesh. 

Onecupfulof molasses, half a cupful of butter, half cupful 
of water, three cupsful of flour, two teaspoonsful ginger, one 
tea-spoonful soda. Beat well together, and drop with a 
spoon on to a buttered pan. Bake quickly. 

COBN-STAECH CAKE. 

Miss Durie, Ottawa, 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, four eggs, 
one cupful of corn-starch, two cupsful of flour, one cupful 
of milk, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar. Beat the butter to a cream with the 
hand, add the sugar and stir until flufty. Beat the eggs, 
yolks and whites, sepaiately. Add the sugar and butter, 
and by degrees, the milk and flour. Bake in two round 
pans a quarter of an hour. 



Waffles. 231 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Dui'ie, Ott<iiva. 

One quart bowl of sweet milk, luke-wann, a good table- 
spoonful of butter, and one of lard melted together. Warm 
a deep crockery dish, put in the milk, two tablespoon sful 
of white sugar. Stir in the butter and two well-bcMten 
eggs,one-half a cupful of yeast. Stir in flour to consistency 
of sponge for bread. Set in a moderately warm place to 
rise, well covered. For tea they should be set about nine 
o'clock a.m. Drop into rings about three o'clock. Cover 
with a cloth, and put near the stove to rise, until fifteen 
minutes l^efore they are to be served. 

MILK TOAST. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Georgetown. 

Having toasted the bread nicely, spread it with butter, 
make some milk hot, add a small piece of butter and a 
little salt to it, then pour it over the toast and serve : Or, 
laj^ toasted bread in a dish or deep plate, put a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a teacupful of butter. Make it boiling 
hot then pour it over the toast. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston Mass. 

Nine eai-s of com grated fine, mixed with the yolks of 
three eggs, and a large tablespoonful of flour, and a small 
cupful of milk. All must be beaten hard and baked on a 
griddle. 

WAFFLES. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

One pint of new milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, with one-half a teaspoonful of so^a, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, stir together. Then put in four eggs 



232 The Canadian Economist. 

and stir until very light. About two teacupsful of flour, 
or enough to make the batter not very thick. Beat it 
five or ten minutes very hard, and mix them with warm 
water. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

1 

Cut in slices a brick loaf, three eggs, a pint of milk, 
sweetened and seasoned with nutmeg. Lay the bread 
into the mixture for about three minutes and fry on a 
buttered griddle. Eaten with butter. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

One pint of water, one cupful of butter. Boil together 
four cupsful of flour, stirred in when nearly cool. Add ten 
eggs, one tcaspoouful of soda. Drop them in small cakes. 
Bake them in a quick oven over twenty minutes. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

M"ke the cream from a heaping cupful of flour, two 
cupfuls of sugar and four eggs. Bull one quart of milk. 
Beat the eggs, sugar and flour together, and stir into ihe 
milk when boiling. When cold flavour and fill the cakes. 

POP-OVERS. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

One egg, one even cupful of flour after it is sifted. One 
cupful of sweet milk, a little salt, a small piece of butter. 
This makes five cupsful. Fill them half full and bake 
them light brown. 



Good Gup Cake. 233 

PUFFS. 

Mrs. HvMt, Boston, Mass. 

Two cupsful of flour, ono cupful of milk, not quite one 
cupful of water. Tlie irons you bake in nm.st be very hot 
before you put in the batter. Butter the irons well. 

m'ginnis cake. 

Miss M. M. Hutch' son. 

One small cupful of butter, one cupful of white sugar, 
four eggs, half a cupful of cold water, two cupsful of Hour, 
two good teaspoonsful of baking powder, one teaspoonful 
of essence of ginger. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Miss M. M. Hutchison. 

White part, half a cupful of butter, one cupful of white 
sugar, half a cupful of sweet milk, the white of four eggs, 
two teaspoonsful of baking powder, two cupsful of flour, 
and a teaspoonful of es.sence of lemon. Dark part, yolk of 
four eggs, one cupful sugar, half a cupful of molasses, half 
a cupful of butter, half a cupful of sweet milk, two cups- 
ful of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
half a nutmeg. Put in a pan in alternate layers. 

GOOD CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. Hardie. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, three cupsful 
of flour, one cupful of raisins, one cupful of milk, four 
eggs, a little salt and spice to taste. Beat the yokes and 
whites separately, mix the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the well beaten yolks, then the whites ; stir the powder 
into the dry flour. Bake in a moderate oven. 



234 The Canadian Economwt. 

GRAHAM FLOUR BREAKFAST BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Hardie. 

One quart of Graham flour, half a cupful of syrup, a 
pint and a half of water, a little salt, four teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, mixed well in the flour. Add syrup and 
water ; mix all well together, and drop in buttered pans in 
spoonsful. Bake in a quick oven. 

CORN MEAL CAKE. 

Mrs. Hardie. 

One quart of corn meal, half a cupful of flour, a cupful 
of sugar, butter the size of an egg, four heaping teaspoonsful 
baking powder, a little salt, three half-pints of cold water ; 
mix the powder, flour, sugar, and meal together, then stir 
in the water ; melt the butter in the bake-pan and pour 
the mixture into the pan. Bake in a quick oven. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

Mrs. W. M. Hutchison. 

One egg, half a cupful of butter, three-fourths of a cupful 
of sugar, three-fourths of a cupful of milk, two teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder. Flour to suit. 

COCOA-NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. M. Hutchison. 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, one 
tablespoonful of butter, four tablespoonsful of sweet milk, 
three teaspoonsful of baking powder. Bake on tin plates 
in a quick oven. Beat the white of an egg to a stifl" froth, 
add four tablespoonsful of pulverized sugar ; spread on it 
and sprinkle on cocoanut. Put it in the oven until the 
icing is dry. 



Delicate Cab;. 235 

SURPRISE CAKE. 

Mrs. G. M. Hutchison. 

One egg, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, 
©ne cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tai-tar ; flavour to taste. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. W.M. Hutchison. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cup- 
ful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoons- 
ful of cream of tartar, four eggs (white only), one cupful 
of flour, half a cupful of corn meal, lemon. Beat the whites 
to a stifl" paste. Mix all well. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Miss Harmon, Ottawa. 

Whites of five eggs, one cupful of butter, two cupsful 
of pulverized sugar, two cupsful of flour, one cupful of corn- 
starch, one cupful of sweet milk, two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder ; flavour to taste. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Miss Harmon, Ottawa. 

Two teacupsful of sugar, half a teacupf ul of butter, two 
and a half teacupsful of flour, one teacupful of milk, 
whites of five eggs, two teaspoonsful of baking powder ; 
take two large spoonsful of the white dough, half a cupful 
of raisins, one-third of a cupful of citron, one teaspoonful 
of each kind of spice, half a cupful of flour, a wineglass- 
ful of molasses. Bake in laj'ers with the black cake for 
the centre, and put together with plain frosting. 



236 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

PARLIAMENT CAKES. 

Mis8 Hopklrk, Ottaiva. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, one-fourth of a 
pound of ginger, one pound of butter, one pound of treacle; 
boil this and pour it on the flour, work up the paste as hot 
as your hand will bear it, and roll it out in very large 
thin cakes, the sixth of an inch thick. Mark it in squares 
with a knife, and Are it in a slow oven ; sejtarate the cakes 
while soft. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Mrs. (Rev.) Dr. Kemp. 

Two cupsful of cold mashed potatoes, stir into it two 
tablespoonsful of butter beaten to a cream, add to this two 
well beaten eggs and a cupful of milk, salting to taste, 
beat all well together. Pour into a deep ornamental dish 
and bake until nicely browned. 

BUTTERNUT CAKE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) Dr. Kemp. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, three of flour, 
one cupful of chopped butternuts, one of sweet milk, two 
teaspoonsful of baking powder, 

SEED BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Leslie, Ottawa. 

One pound of flour,quarter-pound of sifted sugar, quarter- 
pound of butter, half-pound of carraway seeds, three eggs, 
beat the butter to a cream, stir in the flour, sugar and car- 
raway seeds, and when these ingredients ai'e well mixed, 
add the eggs which should be well whisked. Roll out the 
paste with a round cutter, shape out the biscuits and bake 
them in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes. The 



Passover Cakes. 237 

tops of the biscuits may be brushed over with a little milk 
or the white of an e^^g beaten, and then a little sugar 
strewn over. Sufficient to make three dozen biscuits. 

PERTH CAKE. 

Mrs. Leslie, Ottavxi. 

With one pound and a half of flour, mix six ounces of 
brown sugar, half a ])ound of well cleaned currants, a tea- 
spoonfulof gi-ated nutmeg and one of a cinnamon or ginger, 
half a pound of butter, rubbed in one pint of milk, two tea- 
spoonsful of soda dissolved in about two tablespoon sful 
of cold milk and about thirty drr)ps of essence of lemon, 
beat all well tojrether and bake it in a buttered tin, one 
pound of currants may be used. 

DESSERT CAKES. 

Mrs. Leslie, Ottawa. 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six ounces 
of sifted sugar, three eggs, clarify the butter and beat the 
sugar in well, add the flour by degrees, then the eggs 
Still beating, mix thoroughly and bake in small tins for 
eight or ten minutes. Sufficient for eighteen or twenty 
cakes. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

Mrs. McQuarrie. 

Three quarters of a cupful of sugar, one cupful of butter, 
as much flour as you can mix into them. 

PASSOVER CAKES. 

Miss Jane Martin, Ottawa. 

Take three pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, and 
a little salt ; mix the butter and the salt well in the flour ; 
take tepid water ; roll thin, then cut in squares, and dent 



238 The Canadian Economist. . 

with a fork ; bake on the bottom of the oven. This will 
make a very nice tea biscuit. 

SWEET BISCUIT. 

Miss Laird, Bristol. 

One cupful of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, one cup- 
ful of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tar- 
tar, dissolve them, one nutmeg grated. This receipt should 
make at least, fifty very excellent biscuits. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Miss McKinnon, Gloucester Street. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of buttermilk, three cupsful of flour, three eggs, one 
tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus in milk, raisins ; bake. 

GRAHAM FLOUR MUFFINS. 

Mrs. McTaggart, New Edinhurgh. 

Two cupsful of buttermilk, two eggs, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, two tablespoonsful of sugar, one teaspoonful 
of soda, two of cream of tartar, a little salt, flour enough 
to make a stiff" batter ; bake in small iron pans — must be 
very hot before the batter is put in. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) J. M. Macalister, Ashtoii. 

Half a cupful of butter, one and a half cupsful sugar, 
beaten to a cream; then add one cupful of flour, the whites 
of four eggs, one and a-half teaspoonsful of baking pow- 
der, mixed with the flour and three-quarters of a cupful 
of corn-starch ; mix smooth in half a cupful of milk, fla- 
vour to taste, bake in flat tin pans, very good. 



Old Maid's Cake. 289 

ROLY-POLY. 

Mrs. {Rev.) J. M. Mo.calister, Ashton. 

Make good biscuit crust, roll out an inch thick, and 
spread with any kind of preserves ; fokl so that the fruit 
will not run out, place in a buttered dish and steam for 
an hour and a half. When done turn out on a platter 
and serve with boiled sauce. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. McGillivray. 

Five cupsful of flour, one of butter, one of coffee, pre- 
pared as for the table, one cupful of molasses, one of sugar, 
one of raisins, one tefispoonful of soda; spice with cloves 
and cinnamon. 

REAL PLANTATION JOHNNY-CAKE. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

One pint of Indian meal, half a cupful of sugar.three eggs, 
a tablespoonful of lard or butter, a small teaspoonful of 
soda, the same of cream of tartar, and enough buttermilk or 
sweet milk to make a thick batter ; grease your pan well 
and pour the batter into it ; bake in a slow, steady oven 
for at least five honi-s. This is the real Plantation Johnny 
or Hoe Cake, which was obtained from a former slave of 
Governor Point Dexter, of Georgia. We have tried it 
often, and we like it better each time we taste it. 

OLD maid's c.\ke. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

If old maids are as good as the new-fashioned cake 
which has been named after them, they ought not to re- 
main long in single blessedness. But we will give the 
recipe, and let you judge for youi-self : A pound of floui-, 
a quarter of a pound of lard or butter, four wineglassesfiil 



240 TJie Canadian Economist. 

of milk (sweet, of course), half a pound of bloom raisins, 
quarter of a pound of currants, the same of candied orange 
peel, a quarter of a nutmeg, two teaspoonsful of ground 
ginger, one of cinnamon, and one of carbonate of soda ; 
mix well together, and bake slowly for about two hours. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

Two eggs, half a cupful of sweet cream, one cupful of 
white sugar, one teaspuonf ul of cream of tartar, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda. 

OLD-FASHIONED SHORT CAKE. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

A quart of buttermilk, a tablespoonful of melted lard, 
and salt to taste ; roll out to about half an inch thick, cut 
into diamonds, and bake quickly. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

One cupful of molasses, one of buttermilk, four table- 
spoonsful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, one of cloves, 
and one egg. 

ROCK CAKE. 

Mrs. W. B. McArthur, Carleton Place. 

Six ounces of butter, six ounces of white sugar, twelve 
of flour, two eg^, half-ounce of currants. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

Half a pound of butter well beaten, three-quarters of a 
pound of white sugar, ten eggs beaten separately, one 
package of corn starch, two tablespoonsful of flour, three 



Hickory-nut Cake. *241 

teaspoonsful of baking powder oi- two of cream of tartar, 
and one of soda, whites of seven eggs for cake and three 
for icing. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. B. McAHhur, CarUton Place. 

Four eggs beaten for lialf an hour, one cupful of sugar, 
one cupful of Hour. 

JELLY CAKE 

Miss Mc^acktan, Gobourg. 

Four eggs, one cupful sugar, strained and beaten well» 
one cupful flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Miss McXachtan, Cohourg. 

One cupful of sugar, five eggs, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a little lemon. 

PRINCE OF WALES CAKE (GOOD). 

Miss McNachtam, Cohmtrg. 

One cupful of sugar, half cupful of butter, one cupful of 
flour, half a cupful of corn starch, half a cupful ot sweet 
milk, one large teaspoonful of leaking powder, white of 
three eggs. 

HICKORY-NLT CAKE 

Miss MacaUister, Kingston. 

One cupful of shelled hickory nuts, one cupful of but- 
ter, one of sugar, one cupful of sifted flour, one-half cupful 
of corn starch, one-half cupful of milk, one and a-half tea- 
spoonsful of Vjaking powder, whites of four eggs, mix but- 
ter and sugar to a cream, add the whites, beaten lightly, 
milk, flour and lastly the nuts, first dredging them well 
in flour. Flavour to ta-ste. 
IG 



242 The Canadian Economist. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. McTavislu Osgoode 

One and a-half cupsful of brown sugar, three eggs, one 
cupful of sweet milk, two cupsful of flour, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, one of essence of 
lemon. Beat the eggs and sugar together thoroughly; mix 
cream of tartar and soda in the milk, stirring in the flavour. 
Add the flour. Bake quickly, spreading thinly on a long 
pan, and as soon as done spread on the jelly and roll up. 

CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. McTavish, Osgoode, 

Half cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, three and 
a half cupsful of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, three 
eggs, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one of soda. 
Beat lightly. 

TEA CAKE (no. 2). 

Three and a half pounds of flour, one and a quarter 
poundsof sugar, one pound of butter,oneteaspoonfulof sodaii 
half pint of water ; roll thin, and bake in a moderate oven. 

RILE CAKE. 

Mrs. McTavish, Osgoode. 

Four eggs, one cup of white sugar, one cup of rice 
flour. Beat them all well together for half an hour ; bake 
in a moderate oven. 

SILVER CAKES. 

Mrs. McTavish, Osgoode. 

The whites of one dozen eggs.five cupsfulof flour, onecup- 
ful of white sugar, one cupful of buttei', one cupful of cream, 
one teaspoonful ot creamof tartar,half a teaspoonful of soda. 
Beat all well together and bake in a deep pan. 



Corn-sfarch Cake. -43 

bacheloe's coen cake. 

Mr. D. McTavish, Ottaica. 

To a pint of sifted corn meal, add a teaspoonful of salt, 
one large spoonful of butter, (quarter of a cupful of sour 
cream, two eggs, well beaten, add milk until it becomes a 
thin batter. Beat well and l)ake in deep pans with a 
quick heat. 

t'REAM CAKE. 

Mrs. Philip Monson, Ottavsa. 

Beat six eggs five minutes, add three cupsful of sugar,beat 
twominutes.twocupsful of flour, with teaspooufulof cream 
of tartar, beat one minute, one cupful of cold water, with one 
teaspoonf ul of soda. Grate the rind and squeeze the juice 
of a lemon, beat a minute, add twocupsful of flour, beat one 
minute. Custard for the cake : half a pint of milk ; take 
out a little to mix four teaspoonsful of flour, nearly one 
cupful of sugar, piece of butter the size of an egg, yolk of 
one egg, lemon to taste. Bake the cake in layei-s, then 
scald the custard and place between. 

COFFER CAKE. 

Mrs. Philip Monson, Ottawa. 

One cupful sugar, half a cupful of molasses, one cupful of 
•weak coffee, three cupsful of flour, half cupful of butter, 
one egg, one teaspoonsful of soda, one cupful of raisins ; 
Bpice to taste. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Henry Mather. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar well beaten, add four 
eggs beaten quite stiff, one cupful of corn-starch, one cup- 
ful of milk, two cupsful of flour, three teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, sift the flour and powder together into 
the batter ; beat thoroughly and bake immediately. 



244! The Canadian Economwt. 

JENNY LIND CAKE. 

Mrs. Henry Mather. 

One half cupful butter, one cupful of milk, two table- 
spoonsful of cream, two cupsful of sugar, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
four cupsful flour. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

Mrs. Henri/ Mather. 

Half a cupful of molasses, half a cupful of sugar, half a 
cupful of sour milk, piece of butter the size of an egg, two 
cupsful of flour, spices and a few chopped raisins, spice 
with a little ginger, cloves and cinnamon. 

NICE DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Henry Mather. 

One cupful of white sugar, five tablespoonsful of butter, 
whites of six eggs, one cupful of sweet milk, three cupsful 
of flour and two spoonsful of baking powder sifted in the 
flour, flavour with orange, lemon or vanilla. 

INDIAN CORN CAKE. 

Mrs. Henry McElroy, Richmond, Out. 

Scald one pint of cornmeal, add five beaten eggs, one 
cupful of butter, two cupsful sugar, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing soda and one cupful of flour, bake in a hot oven. 

POP OVEKS. 

Mrs. Henry McElroy, Richmond, Ont. 

One egg vrell beaten, one cupful of sweet milk, one cup- 
ful of flour. Heat the gem -pans before pouring in the 
, mixture, and bake in a hot oven. 



Banhu'i'y Cakes. 245 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Miss McKellar, Ottawa. 

Any good jelly cake recipe will do for the cake. Two 
ounces of chocolate, a heaping cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of cream, a little vanilla. The chocolate is thus prepared, 
dissolve it into a smooth paste, with a little hot water, 
then adding the cream and sugar, stew altogether to a 
thick marmalade which must be spread between the cakes. 
If you choose it grated cocoanut sprinkled on top of the 
chocolate is very nice. This will be enough for one cake 
of six thicknesses, or for two or three stories. The thinner 
the cakes are the nicer they are. 

"drop cake. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One pound of flour, one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, one slice of bread crumbled, one 
egg, small piece of butter, milk enough to make a thin bat- 
ter. Drop from a spoon and bake. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One lemon, five eggs, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of sweet milk, four cupsful of flour, three cupsful of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, mix the butter and egg to- 
gether, gi-ate the lemon in and add the juice. 

BANBURY CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Currants one pound, beef suet four ounces, canded lemon 
and orange peel each three ounces, salt, small pinch of 
cinnamon and nutmeg, quarter of an ounce, macaroons or 
ratifias four ounces ; bake twenty-five or thirty minutes ; 
make a paste of fouj'teen ounces of butter to a pound of 



246 The Canadian Economist. 

flour ; give an extra turn or two to prevent its rising too 
much ; roll out half the paste thin, spread the fruit, &c. 
equally on it, moisten the edges and lay on the cover. 
Mark it with the back of a knife in pieces tw^o inches 
wide, three long, divide while it is warm. 

SUGAR CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Take half a pound of dried flour, a quarter of a pound 
of fresh butter, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, 
then mix the flour, sugar, and butter, add the yolk of an 
egg beaten with a tablespoonful of cream , make into a 
paste, roll out into small cakes, bake on floured tins. 

S5kIALL PLUM CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Six ounces of powdered loaf sugar, three ounces of but- 
ter, one pound of flour, three eggs, half a pound of cur- 
rants, cream the butter, beat the eggs well, beat all to- 
gethere to a stiff paste, which drop on floured tins or 
plates ; bake in a brisk oven. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream 
of tartar heaped, salt, roll thin, cut, and when putting in 
the pan lay one on top of the other. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Miss 31., Kingston. 

Whites of four eggs, half a cupful of butter, a cupful and 
a half of white sugar, two cupsful of flour, half a cupful of 
milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar, 
flavouf wath leinon, 



Savoury Biscuit. 247 

SPICED CAKE. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Take the yolks left from the snow cake, half a cupful of 
butter, half a cupful of brown sugar, one cupful ot flour, 
quaiter of a cupful of milk, one cupful of raisins, one of 
currants, nutmeg, cinnamon and cloveti to taste, quarter 
of a teaspoon lA c^ soda, half of cream of tartar. 

MUFFINS. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One quart of milk, butter about the size of an egg, one 
teaspcoiiful of yeast, make a thick batter, let it rise all 
night, or until light, about a spoonfu] into each ring. 

SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One pound of butter, one pound of flour, one pound and 
a half of sugar, powdered, two eggs, one -half ounce of carra- 
way, mix well, if too stiff, add more egg, roll thin with 
very little flour, or the paste will be tough. Bake on plates 
in a hot oven. 

CAKES. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
mix to a paste, add two tablespoonsful of currants, and one 
of sugar. Roll out and bake in a quick oven. 

SAVOURY BISCUIT. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Fifteen egi^, one pound of sugar, eight ounces of flour, 
and the raspings of a lemon. Break your eggs. Separate, 
add the sugar to the yolks. jWork it with two spaddles one 



248 " 21^e Canadian ?Jvonomisf. 

in each hand, rolling them like drum-sticks one over the 
other. By tliis motion the mixture Avill troth up. Con- 
tinue it at least a quarter of an hour. Some one else 
should be Avhisking the whites, when come to a show and 
firm, put a fourth part of the yolks and mix well with 
the spaddle, then pour the whole of the whites and mix 
gently while another sifts in the whole of the flour. Make 
the paste smooth which is done by weHmixing the flour. 
Lay the biscuits on paper with a spoon oi^ funnel, with 
three or four holes in it. Usual lengtli three and a half 
inches, when full, ice with fine sifted powdered sugar, 
sifted over from a silk sieve, or throw the sifted sugar 
over the first row with your hand, and taking the sheet 
of paper by the upper corner, scattering the sug^r over 
the others. In a few minutes lay the paper on the plates 
and bake a fine clear colour. When cold detach v/ith the 
blade of a knife. They are geneially placed back to back. 

WAFER BISCUITS TO ORNAMENT A CREAM &C. 

J\Ii8s M., Kingston. 

Two ounces of sugar, two and a half ounces of flour, the 
whites of two eggs, a drop of oil of cloves, do. cinnamon, 
make a liquid paste, having melted the sugar. Drop on 
plates four inches apart. Spread with the handle of a 
spoon till very large. R(j11 then on a roller, or turn them 
into horns. 

TWO EGG CAKE (GOOD). 

Mm. (Ber.) Kenneth MdcLennan. F. E. I. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cujj- 
ful of milk, two cupsful of flour, two eggs, a teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar and half of soda. Beat sugar and eggs 
together, mix cream of tartar in the Hour, and dissolve 
soda in the milk, add last. Flavour with bitter almonds 
or lemon. 



Sugar Cakes. ii49 

SPONGE BISCUIT. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, six ounces of floui*, and 
the raspings of two lemons. Work like the Savoys, put 
in buttered moulds, sift sugar over. Bake in a moderate 
heat ; when of a tine colour, take carefully out, set the 
glazed side down and in a sieve, that it may not fall. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) Kenneth MacLennan, P. E. I. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound of 
brown sugar, two pounds of flour, six teaspoonsful of bak- 
ing powder, one and a half of currants, ^ six eggs, one 
pint of milk. Spice to ta«te. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. {Rev.) Kenneth MacLennan, P. E. I. 

One quart of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonf ul of soda, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one pint of milk, 
a pinch of salt. 

RAISED CAKE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) Kenneth MacLennan P K. I. 

Take one cupful of bread sponge, add one cupful of 
sugar, three-quarters of a cupful of butter, one cupful of 
chopped raisins, one egg, one tea spoonful of spice. Stir 
as stiff" as possible with a spoon, and let it rise until light, 
then bake, from three-quarters of an hour, to an hour, ac- 
cording to oven. 

SUGAR CAKES. 



Mrs. (Rev.) Kenneth MacLennan, P. E. I. 

One pound of flour, haK a pound of butter, three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, eggs, from two to four, smal 



250 The Canadian Economist. 

pinch of salt, carraway seeds, ginger or currants at choice, 
slow oven, fifteen minutes, should be lightly coloured, but 
thoroughly baked. 

GROUND RICE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Weigh nine eggs and their weight in sugar, add the 
weight of six in ground rice, add a little lemon and a little 
salt. It requires a little longer baking than that which 
is made from wheat flour. It is a good cake. 

SALLY LUNNS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Mix two dessertspooonsful of yeast and two pounds of 
fine flour with a little warm water ; let it stand half an 
hour, to rise. Put two ounces of butter and the yolk of 
an egg into as much milk as is wanted to make the dough 
the required stiff*ness, and mix all well up together. Put 
it into cups or tins. When risen properly, bake the Sally 
Lunns in a rather quick oven. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Take mashed potatoes, flour, a little salt and melted 
butter to make them sweet, add a little powdered loaf 
sugar, mix with just enough milk to make the paste stifl[ 
enough to roll ; make it the size and thickness of a muffin, 
and bake quickly. 

TO MAKE RUSKS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Beat up seven eggs, mix them with half a pint of warm 
new milk in which a quarter of a pound of butter has 
been nielted, add a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three 



Cora Starch Cake. 251 

ounces of sugar. Put them gradually into as much flour 
as will make a light paste, nearly as thin as batter. Let 
it rise before the fire half an hour, add more flour to make 
it a little stiffer ; work it well and divide it into small 
loaves or cakes about five or six inches wide, and flatten 
them. When baked and cold put them into the oven to 
brown a little. These cakes, when first baked, are veiy 
good buttered for tea. If they are made with carraway 
seeds, they eat \eTy nice cold. 

RICE POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Four ounces of flour, eight ounces of butter, six eggs, 
twelve ounces of sugar, eight ounces of ground rice, the 
peel of a lemon, if you like, which improves it, or thirty 
drops of essence of lemon. 

A LIGHT SEED CAKE. 

Mrs. T}u)s. McKay 

Take the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three, 
beat them well for half an hour, then put in six ounces 
of powdered loaf sugar, mix it well with the eggs, add 
gradually seven ounces of flour, and a few carraway seeds. 
Stir the whole together and put it into a pan or dish for 
baking. If the oven is hot, half an hour will bake it. 
The moment it is taken out of the oven turn it out of the 
mould and let it lie upside down until quite cold. Great 
care should be taken in the baking. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Perley, Ottawa. 

Whites of three eggs, half a cupful of corn starch, half 
a cupful of butter, half a cupful of sweet milk, half a 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, quarter of a teaspoonful 
of soda, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour. Mix 



252 The Canadian Econoviist. 

the flour, corn starch, and cream of tartar together tho- 
roughly, then add to the butter, sugar and eggs after they 
are well beaten together, then put in the milk and soda. 

G HAH AM CAKE. 

^frs. Perley, Ottavxi. 

One quart of water, half a cupful of yeast, one cupful of 
sugar, a small piece of butter and a little salt. Let this 
rise over night, and in the morning add a small bit of 
soda. Bake in cups. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. Hiram Robinson, Ottawa. 

Take a cupful of sugar, half a cupful of milk, a cupful 
and a half of flour, half a cupful of butter. The whites of 
four eggs, two lady-fingers or macaroons, or pour into a 
dish lined with sponge cake. 

SEED CAKE. 

Miss Robertson, TItorold. 

Mix the yeast wdth a little flour and warm water, set 
it to rise, when light enough take half a pound of sugar, 
two eggs, work them together, add a cupful of milk, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the milk, half a nutmeg, 
and a little ground spice two tablespoonsful of carraway 
seeds. Then stir in as nmch flour as will make it pretty 
stiff, then have a quarter of a pound of butter melted and 
work it in, set it to rise, when light, bake it in a moderate 
oven. 

COCOA-NUT CAKE. 

Miss Robertson, ThoroM. 

One half cupful of butter, one-half cupful of milk, three- 
fourths of a cupful of sugar, three eggs broken separately, 
three teaspoonstul of baking powder dissolved in flour. 



Marbled Cahe. 25:3 

FIFE CAKE. 

Miss Robertson, Tkorold, 

One cupful of sour cream, half a cupful of sugar, two 
cupsful of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda. Bake 
quickly. 

TEA CAKE. 

Miss Robertson, Tkorold. 

One cupful of white sugar, three-fourths of a cupful of 
sweet milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, a little butter and flour to 
thicken. Flavour to taste. 

SPONGE CAJKE 

Miss Robertson, Thoro^d. 

Ten eggs beaten with a pound of white sugar, then add 
quickly three-quartei's of a pound of flour, with flavour- 
ing to taste. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottavxi. 

Whites of ten eggs, two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of 
butter, three-quartet's of a cupful of sweet milk, two and 
a half cups of flour, half a cupful of corn-starch, two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar, one cupful of soda, flavour 
to taste, cut preserved citron peel in thin pieces and stick 
in top of cake after putting in the pans. 

MARBLED CAKE. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa. 

One and a half cupsful of sugar, half a cupful of sweet 
milk, half a cupful of butter, two and a half of flour, whites 
of four eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, flavour with lemon. Varl- pa rt — one 



2'>4 The Canadian Economid. 

cupful of brown sugar, half a cu[)ful of molasses, half a cup- 
ful of butter, half a cupful sour milk, two and a half cups- 
ful of flour, yolks of four eggs, half a teaspooiiful of ground 
cloves, allspice, cinnamon and nutmeg, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, drop a spoon- 
ful of light and dark alternately in tins. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

M7's. Ray, Ottawa. 

Half a cupful of butter, one of sugar, half a cupful of 
sweet milk, two eggs, one cupful of corn starch, one cupful 
of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder. Beat ten 
minutes. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cup- 
ful of sweet milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, three 
and a half of flour, five egg-^, leaving out the whites of 
two. Icing — Whites of two eggs, one and a half cupsful 
of sugar, six tablespoonsful of grated chocolate. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Dark — One cupful of brown sugar, half a cupful of 
butter, half a cupful of sour milk, half a cupful of mo- 
lasses, two and a half cupsful of flour, yolks of four eggs. 
White — One cupful of white sugar, half a cupful of butter, 
and milk, two and a half cupsful of flour, whites of four 



Cwonnut Cake. 255 

eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder to each cupful 
of flour. Mix the dark and white sepamte, and put in 
the pan alternately. 

CORN STARCH PUFFS. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one cupful of sugar, one 
cupful of com starch, half a cupful of butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla in the butter and sugjir, two tea,spoonsful of 
baking powder mixed in the corn starch. 

DROP CAKES. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

A quai*ter of a pound of sugar and butter, half a pound 
of flour, three eggs and some cun-ants. Drop in a pan 
with a spoon. 

IMPERIALS. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Half a pound of sugar, one pound of flour, six ounces of 
butter and currants, four eggs. Mix well with a fork and 
lift into the pan with a fork. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Stitt, Ottawa. 

Ingi-edients for cake : — One coffeecupful of sifted white 
sugar, one of flour, six eggs ; separate yolks from whites. 
Beat thoroughly, fii-st the yolks. Strain them and add 
the sugar, beat again, then whisk the whites till quite 
stiff, and add them ; last of all, gently sift in the flour, 
stirring lightly. Place in the jelly-cake tins and bake 
quickly. Ingredients for the rising: — Whites of two 
eggs, one cupful of icing sugar, one cupful of fresh grated 
cocoanut, a few drops of lemon-juice. Whisk whites till 



''l')G The Canadiati Economist. 

quite firm add sugar, cocoa-nut and lemon juice ; beat thera 
all together. Place alternate layers of cake and cocoa-nut 
icing, keeping the rising well on top of the cake. 

PATTY CAKES. 

Miss Sleuurt, Mlohmond Road. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, two eggs, one cupful 
of milk, two and a half of flour, two and a half tea- 
spoonsful of baking-powder, nutmeg; bake in patty-pans. 

PRINCESS CAKE. 

Miss Stewart, Richmond Road. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, three- 
quarters of a cupful of milk, four cupsful of flour, one 
pound of stoned raisins, three and a-half spoonsful of bak- 
ing powder ; lemon flavouring. 

SANDWICH CAKE. 

Mrs. Smith (Bryson). 

Two eggs, four tablespoonsful of sugar, four of flour, 
four of water, a small teaspoonful of soda and two of 
cream of tartar. 

SANDWICH CAKE. 

Mrs. Swahvell, Porta/je du Fort. 

Four eggs well beaten, one cupful of sugar, about the 
size of .an egg of butter, three tablespoonsful of milk, a tea- 
spoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar. 

COKN'STARCH CAKE. 

Miss Lizzie J. Stark, Carleton Place. 

One cupful of butter and two of sugar. Beat to a white 
foam ; add four eggs beaten quite stiff", one cupful of flour 
and two of corn -starch, one cupful of milk, and flavour with 



Cofee Cake. 257 

bitter almonds; sift one teaspoonful of cream of tartar with 
the flour, and half a teaspoonful of soda in a teaspoonful of 
milk, dissolved. The last thing, beat thoroughly after the 
soda is added and bake immediately. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Smith. 

One pint of sweet milk, one egg, piece of butter the size 
of an egg, two large teaspoonsful of baking powder and 
Graham flour to make a stiflT batter. Bake in muffin tins. 

AN EXCELLENT CAKE. 

Miss Stapeley, BeUei-ilh. 

One pound offlour, one pound of sugar, one-third of apouud 
of butter, six eggs,one cupful of sweet milk with a teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in the milk, and two teaspoonsful of 
cream of tartar rubbedintheflour.oneteaspoonful of essence 
•<tf lemon. Mix the butter and sugar to a cream, put all 
together and bake. A grated cocoanut or cui-rant is a 
great improvement. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Smith, Bristol. 

Two eggs, half a cupful of butter, one of sugar, three- 
(juartersof acupfulof milk, one cupful cornstarch, one and 
a-half cupsful of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder. 
Flavour with lemon. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottaiva. 

One cupful of butter, one of sugar, three cupsful offlour, 
two eggs, half a cupful of strong cold coffee, hnlf a teaspoon- 
ful of soda or baking powder, half a nutmi^g,half a teaspoon- 
ful of cloves (ground) half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one 
pound of raisins. 
17 



258 The Canadian Economist. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. A Scott, Ottaiva. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of butter, one egg, live 
cupsful of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Boil potatoes; bruise thern fine, mix butter and salt 
and baking powder into flour, enough to tread and roll 
out. Cut out in squares and diamond shaped. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottai.va. 

One pint of new milk, one quart of flour, four eggs, four 
teaspoonsf ul of cream of tar, two of soda, four tablespoons- 
ful of melted butter. Beat the eggs well, add milk, stir 
in the flour in which the cream of tartar has been thor- - 
oughly mixed ; then the butixer, not a very full tablespoon- 
ful, lastly the soda, dissolved in a little milk. Beat it 
well for a minute or two. • 

COCOA-NUT CAKE (THREE LAYEKS). 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

One cu\)ful of sugar, one-third cupful of butter, three eggs, 
three-quarters of a cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of soda/ 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Flour to mix. Beat whites 
of eggs, two tablespoonsful of sugar, spread it over each layer 
and sprinkle with cocoa-nut. Bake in Sandwich tins. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

it 

Half a cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, three eggs, 
one cupful of milk, three cupsful of flour, three teaspoonsful 



Jinnhles. 2o9 

ofbakingpowder(cook'sfriend). Workthe buttertoacream, 
adtl the sugar, beat the eggs, then add the milk, then flour, 
with Vjaking powder, mixed in it dry. For tilling betweeg 
the layers, one pint of milk, one cupful of sugar, one egg, two 
and a-half teaspoonsful of corn-starch. Flavour with 
lemon. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottai'M. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, two eggs, two- 
thirds of a cupful of milk, one tablespoonf ul of baking pow- 
der, two cupsful of flour. Flavour. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottavxi. 

One quart of flour, one cupful of butter ; mi.K together, one 
cupful of ice-cold water. Roll it out like pastry, handling as 
little as possible. Cover two large dinner plates with it; fill 
each with fresh strawberries,tiweetened with sugar, place one 
la3'er over another, until three are filled, then lay over the 
cover, and set the cake in the oven for five or six minutes, 
sprinkle fine sugar over the top layer, and serve with sweet 
cream. 

RICE FLOUR CAKE. 

Mrs. (Rev). A. Scott, Given Sound. 

Six eggs, yolks and whites, beaten separately, half- 
pound of butter, half-pound of broken loaf sugar, half- 
jx)und of rice flour. Beat with the hand for half-an-hour. 
Sure flavour to taste. 

^ JUMBLES. 

Mi's. Thompson, Point FoHane, Que. 

Three eggs, half a cupful of butter beaten to a froth ; 
three-quarters of a cupful of white sugar; add lemon flav- 
ouring ; flour sufiicient k» roll without sticking. The jum- 



2C0 The Canadian Economist. 

bles should be rolled in white powdered sugar, cut out with 
a tumbler. Then make a small hole in the centre, with 
the top of a pepper box, and bake on tins in a quick oven, 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Mrs. Story, Ottaiva. 

Twocupsful of sweet milk, oneteaspoonfulofsalt,one and 
a-half teaspoonsful of soda, and three even teaspoonsful of 
cream of tartar, two tablespoonsful of melted butter. Put 
all into the milk, add add buckwheat for thin batter. 

MANNA CAKES. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

One cupful of sugar, a piece of butter size of an egg, one 
egg, one cupful of milk, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda ; mix soft, roll to half an inch, 
and bake quickly. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. ir. Taylor. 

One cupful of sugar, a half cupful of butter, one egg, 
one cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a 
half one of soda, two cupsful of tiour, bake in a moderate 
oven. 

CORN-STAIU'H CAKE. 

Miss Thomson, Renfrew. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, one of 
milk, two of flour, one of corn starch, the whites of six 
eggs, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, flavour to taste. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

One pint of warm milk, one egg, piece of butter size of 
an egg, a half cupful of yeast, salt, mix at night; in the 



Rice Cake^. 261 

morning roll out, cut with a cake-cutter, turning one side 
over ; set in pans to rise. Bake in a moderately-hot 
oven. 

CORN CAKE (Excellent). 

J/i\s« Thomson, Renfrew. 

Four ounces of butter, four of sugar (white), four of 
flour, four of corn-starch, a half cupful of milk, whites of 
four eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one and a 
half of soda. The flour, starch, cream of tartar and soda 
to be all mixed together, the eggs the last. Flavour with 
lemon. 

SODA CAKE (Very nice). 

Miss Thomson, Renfretv. 

Four egg^, four cupsful of flour, two of sugar, one of 
milk, one of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream 
of tartar. Bake either in patty-pan or in two large tins. 

JUMBLES. 

Mrs. Janes Thomson. 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, two pounds of flour, 
three eggs, one cupful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda. 

SPONGE CAKE FOR JELLY ROLL. 

Mrs. Janes Thomson. 

Three cgg%, one cupful of sugar, two cupsful of flour, 
two tablespoonsful of baking powder. Bake in a slow 
oven. 

r.ICE CAKES. 

Mrs. Janes Thomson. 

Three and a half pounds of flour, one pound of butter, 
one and a half of sugar, one ounce and a half of ammonia 
five eggs, and milk to mix up a medium soft dough. 



202 The Canadian Ecrmomist. 

GRAHAM PUFFS. 

Miss Urquhart, Peiih. 

One })int of (Jraham flour, one eg^, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one tablespoonful of bakinc^ powder; mix well with 
sweet milk or water. Bake in gem-pans. 

DROP CAKES. 

Miss Urquhart, Perth. 

One pint of flour, one-half pound of butter, one-quarter 
pound of sugar, half a nutmeg, grated, a handful of 
currants, two eggs, a large j^inch of soda. Drop from a 
spoon into a pan, and bake about ten or fifteen minutes. 
This quantity will make more than thirty cakes. 

SODA CAKE. 

Anonymoi's. 

One poimd of flour, one pound of moist sugar, rub in a 
half pound of butter, lard or dripping, four eggs, well 
beaten, one teacupful of warm milk (not hot), a tea- 
spoontul of soda dissolved in the milk; niix all to- 
gether, and bake immediately for two hours in rather a 
quick oven. 

BREAK KAST MUFFINS. 

AQioni/mous. 

Two eggs well beaten, one cupful of sugar, a lum]i of 
butter tlie size of an egg, one teaspoonful of soda, one pint 
of milk, one quart of flour, two teaspoonsful of cream of 
tartar. Bake in muflin rings or in tin plates in a quick 
oven. 

T(» MAKE A NICE PLAIN CAKE. 

Anonymous. 

Rub six ounces of dripping into three pounds of flour, 
add six ounces of moist sugar, six ounces of currants, 



Railroad Cake. 263 

half an ounce of allspice, one pint of Avarm new milk, stir 
into it two teaspoonsful of baking powder, and mix the 
whole to a dough, put it into six tins well greased. Place 
them near a fire, for nearly one hour, then bake them for 
an hour and a quarter. 

JEI.LY CAKE. 

iVis. {Ttev) I). Wardrope, Teeswater. 

Four ounces of butter, five ounces of sugar, three eggs, 
six ounces of flour, a teaspoonful of baking powder, work 
the butter to a cream, then add the sugar, working these 
together till very light ; then the eggs, one at a time, 
without beating; then the flour and baking powder. 
Bake in three tins, jelly between, pulverized sugar 
on top. 

LEMON CAKF. 

^frs. (Rev.) 1). Wardrope, Teeswater. 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, three tablespoon.sful of 
water, one and a half cupsful of flour, three teaspoonsful 
of baking powder. Beat eggs and sugar together till very 
light, then add half the flour, then the water, then the 
other half of the flour and baking powder. Bake in three 
tins. For putting between the liiyei*s, prepare the follow- 
ing mixture : Grated rind and juice of a lemon, one egg, 
beaten, half a cupful of water, a teaspoonful of butter, 
and a tablespoonful of flour, made smooth with a little of 
the water. Mix all tofjether and brin^ to a boil on the 
stove, stirring to keep smooth, cool, and spread between 
the layers ; sifted sugar on the top. 

RAILROAD CAKE. 

Miss Minnie White, Hamilton. 

Three eggs, one cupful of flour, one and a half cupsful of 
sugar, beat eggs and sugar together ; one teaspoonful of 



264 The Canadian Econoriiist. 

cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
half a cupful of water, then add one cupful of flour, flour 
to taste ; when done spread with jolly and roll quickh'. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Miss Minnie White, Hamilton. 

Two cupsful of meal; two cupsful of flour, three cupsful 
of milk, two eggs, half a cupful of butter, two teaspoons- 
ful of soda, and four of cream of tartar, two tablespoons- 
ful of sugar. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Miss Maggie White, Hamilton. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, whites of 
four eggs, one and a half cupsful of flour, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda. Flavour 
with bitter almonds or vanilla. 

TEA CAKES. 

Miss Eliza White, Hamilton. 

Three eggs, one cupful of butter, one of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of 
tartar. Flavour with lemon or vanilla. Put all in the 
flour before you mix them. No milk or water. 

POP- OVERS. 

Brooldyn. 

One cupful of flour, one of milk, one Qgg, a little salt, a 
small piece of butter. Bake in moulds. 

TUMBLER CAKE. 

Mrs. Walford, Renfrew. 

One tumblerful of molasses, one of ginger, one of cur- 
rants, one of raisins, one of milk, one of butter, four of 



Jumhlea. 200 

flour, one teaspoonful of salerat-us, one of cloves, one of 
cinnamon, one of nutmeg, and five eggs. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

2Irs. Walford, Renfrew. 

Two cupsful sugar, one of butter, four of flour, one 
of sweet milk, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, nine 
eggs (the whites). 

BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

Corn cake — two cupsful of meal, two of flour, two eggs, 
two cupsful of milk (sour or sweet), one teaspoonful of 
soda, a small piece of butter. If the meal is soaked in the 
milk over night,it is better. 

GRAHAM POP-OVERS. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

One quart of water, half a cupful of sugar, half a cupful 
of yeast, a small piece of butter, a little salt — in the morn- 
ing add a small piece of soda. Take care that the irons 
are verj^ hot. 

INDIAN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

One and a half cupsful of meal, half a cupful of flour, 
one and a half cupful of sour milk, two eggs, two table- 
spoonsful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda. 

JUMBLES. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

Two eggs, one and a half cupsful of sugar, one cupful 
butter, one tablespoonful of milk, a little soda, nutmeg, 
floui- to roll in coarse susar. 



260 Tlie Canadian Econoiniist. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Willia/ins, Cliaudihr. 

Three eupsful of sugar, one of butter, or a little less, 
the whites of eight eggs, one cupful of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, half of soda, four eupsful of 
flour. 

CAKE. 

Mi'S. Hugh Young, Sand Point. 

Flour, three and a half pounds ; sugar one and a quarter 
pounds ; butter, one pound ; half a pint of milk having 
one teaspoonful of soda (carbonate) dissolved in it. Roll 
thin, and bake in cake tins. 

CREAM PANCAKES. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Coohery. 

Rub the rind of half a fresh lemon with three or four 
large lumps of sugar until the yellow part is all taken 
off, then cru.sh the sugar to powder, and mix with it a 
pinch of powdered cinnamon, a small pinch of salt, and 
an ounce of dried flour. Make this into a smooth paste 
with a little cold milk and an ounce of clarified butter ; 
then stir in very gradually half a pint of thick cream and 
the well whisked yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. 
Melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small frying 
pan ; fry the pancakes very quickly, and serve them as 
quick as possible. They should be very thin. A second 
supply of butter will not be required for frying. 

FRENCH PANCAKES. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Coohery. 

Make a batter by beating up together three spoonsful 
of potato starch, five raw eggs, some powdered loaf sugar, 
and a little water. Add enough milk to make it of the 



Bvxhwheat Cakes. 267 

consistenc}' of porridge. Butter well the inside of a fry- 
ing pan, and place it over a moderate fire. When it i.s 
sufficiently hot, pour in a large spoonful of the batter, 
so as to .spread it over the whole of its surface. When 
the pancake is done enough, throw it on a dish, and 
sprinkle its surface with crushed loaf sugar, or cover it 
with jelly. 

PLAIN PANCAKES. 

Ccisseirs Dictionary/ of Cookery. 

Whisk two eggs thoroughly and pour them into a bowl 
containing four tablespoonsful of tlour. Beat the mix- 
ture until it is smooth and quite free from lumps, then 
add a pinch of .salt and two-thirds of a pint of new milk. 
Let the batt?r stand in a cool place for an hour or two, 
then fry the pancakes according to the directions given 
above. Half an ounce of dripping for each pancake. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

CassdVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

To a pint of buckwheat flour add a large teaspoonful 
of baking powder and a little salt. Mix to a thin batter 
using luke-warm water in cold weather. The fryingpan 
requires to be onlj- rubbed with grease and the batter 
dropped in quantities sufficient to cover an ordinary break- 
fast plate at one time. Turn and send to table very hot 
and well buttered, or they can be eaten with treacle or 
syrup if preferred. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES (Another way). 

CasselVs Dictionai^ of Cookery. 

Put a large tablespoonful of yeast into a hollow made 
in the middle of one quart of buckwheat and work it into 
a light dough with warm water ; cover it up warm by the 
fire to rise for three hours. When risen enough the top 



208 The CUinadian Economist. 

will be cracked, then get ready the griddle, — it should be 
hot and well buttered or greased. The cakes may then 
be proceeded with. Convey with a ladle as much batter 
as can be wanted, that is, according to the size of the 
cakes. When done on one side turn, and when quite 
baked butter them as they are removed from the griddle, 
A fresh supply of butter is not required for every cake, 
but it is sufficient if the griddle be well rubbed with it. 
Lay them one on the other and divide into quarters. 

KATSED BUCKWHEAT (AKHS 

Warm a ([uart of water. Stir into it a good tablespoon- 
ful of treacle and a teaspoonful of salt. Mix in enough 
buckwheat flour, or oatmeal, or Indian corn-flour to make 
a stiff batter, together with a tablespoonful of good yeast. 
Let it soand to rise before the fire. Then bake on a hot 
plate in iron rings like muffins, or in a sla>jk oven. Toast 
and serve the cakes hot with butter. 

LIGHT RYE TEA-CAKES. 

One pint of sweet milk, two eggs, a tablespoonful 
of brown sugar, and a large pinch of salt. Add enough 
rye-flour to make it as stiff as common griddle cake batter. 
Bake one-half hour in common gem-pans. 

RYE DROPS, OR MUFFINS. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, three pints of r^^e flour, one 
handful of wheat flour, one-half teacupf ul of home-made 
yeast, or one tablespoonful and a-half of distiller's yeast. 
Make overnight, set in a warm place to rise and bake in 
round tins for half an hour the next morning. 

RYE DROPS FRIED LIKE DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful of sour milk or buttermilk, three tablespoons- 
ful of sugar, one of butter, melted, if buttermilk is not 
used ; one egg, a small teaspoonful of saleratus, one of 



Hoe Cakes. 2(59 

cinnamon, flour enough to make a stiff batter. Take it 
up by the tablespoonful and fry in hot lard. 

RYE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Take one quart of rye flour and one cupful of wheat 
flour, wet it up with sour milk or butteimilk until the 
batter is thick enough to cook easily on the griddle, add 
to it a pinch of salt, a small teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in warm water, and one well-beaten egg. Griddle 
cakes made of rye flour are far superior to those made of 
wlieat flour for tlie\^ are far more tender. Corn meal can 
be substituted for wheat, if desired. 

RYE ROLLS. 

Take one pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, a little 
salt, a tablespoonful of lard, and three tablespoonsful of 
sugar, stir into it enough rye flour to make a very stiff 
batter, tlien put wheat flour on your hands and take up 
as much as a large spoonful of the dough and roll it out 
on the board as you do twisted dough-nuts, an 1 when 
rolled long enough twist it up into a round cake like a 
jumble and bake on flat tins. A delicious roll for supper. 

RISEN FLANNEL CAKES. 

The Bazar. 

Into one quart of flour put two teaspoonsful of salt, 
beat two whole eggs and pour into a quart of milk, first 
boiled and cooled to prevent its souring ; beat the batter 
quite light; then add three tablespoonsful of yeast, beat 
again and set to rise till morning. 

HOE CAKES. 

The Bazar. 

Take a piece oft" your light bread dough, early in the 
morning, and make it into a thin batter with cream or 



270 TJLe Canadian Economist. 

new milk ; let it stand to rise till just before your break- 
fast hour ; pour the batter then in spoonsful on a hoe and 
bake quickly. Have ready a bowl of melted butter to 
dip the cakes in, and serve (juite hot. 

SARATOGA TEA-CAKES. 

Family Friend. 

To each pound of flour add a dessertsp;)onful of yeast 
powder, one Qgg, one-half pint of milk, two spoonsful af 
melted butter, two spoonsful of sugar. Rub the ingredi- 
ents together, then quickly mix in the milk with the 
butter, then the beaten eggs. Cut out in V)iscuit form 
and bake quickly in buttered pans. 

CAPITAL OATMEAL CAKES. 

Family Friend. 

W(n'k three parts of fine oatmeal and one part of flour 
into a stiff paste with treacle (golden syrup) with the ad- 
dition of a very small quantity of lard, and sufficient bak- 
ing powder to impart the desired lightness. Bake the 
paste in the form of small flat cakes, much resembling 
the ordinary ginger-nuts of the biscuit baker. 

PLAIN SEED CAKE. 

Young Ladies Journal. 

Two pounds of flour, one and a half pound of treacle, 
nearly one ounce of ground ginger, quarter-pound of butter, 
c[uarter ounce of carraway seeds, ground, a little candied 
lemon-peel cut flne, mix all well with the flour, warm the 
butter and mix well with the rest; dissolve in boiling 
water a large teaspoonful of carbonate of soda and stir 
well into the treacle, add to the other ingredients, work 
all thoroughly together, and bake in a buttered tin two 
hours, in rather a slow oven. 



A 



R<jut Cah:s. 271 

CRUMPETS. 

Family Friend. 

One cupful of sweet milk, one cupful of sour milk, or 
buttermilk, one eg^^, half a teaspoonful of soda, a pinch of 
salt, flavour and sutjar to ta^te. Make the batter a oroocl 
ileal thicker than for pancakes ; bake on griddle. The 
cnimpets will keep for a week and improve in keeping. 

ROUT CAKES. 

Family Friend. 

Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, and pound of currants, clean and dry ; then wet 
into a stifl" paste with two eggs, a large spoonful of orange- 
flower- water, the same of rose-water ; drop on a tin plate, 
floured. A very short time bakes them. 



,.4 



■"^M^- 



CHAPTER XV. 
MUSH, OATMEAL, RICE. 

HOW TO MAKK MLTSH. 

Home Messenger. 

'TT'ERY few people know how to make this dish as it 
V should be. The ingredients for a dish of mush are 
water, salt, and cornmeal. The water should be soft, and 
the salt tine, and the meal of the best quality; yellow 
meal gives the best colour, but white meal is more easily 
cooked. The water should be boiling hot at the commence- 
ment, middle and end of the operation. The meal should 
be added very slowly, so as to prevent any lumps being 
formed, the cook stirring all the time, and should never be 
in such quantities as would bring down the temperature 
of the water below the boiling point. Herein lies the 
secret of making good mush. Mush should be thoroughly 
cooked. 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE. 

Home Messenger. 

Put some water in a saucepan on the fire. Let it boil 
quickly, then throw in a pinch of salt ; sprinkle some oat- 
meal into the boiling water with the left hand, and at the 
same time beat it briskly with a fork or spoon held in 
the right, to keep it from getting into lumps when the 
porridge is thick enough, let it boil till wanted and serve. 
Treacle, cream, milk or sugar may be eaten with it. 



To Mia: Oatmeal. 273 

CORN' MUSH. 

Home Messenger. 

Put one quart of water on the stove to boil, stir into a 
pint of cold milk, one pint of cornmeal, and one teaspoon- 
t'ul of salt when the water boils, pour in the mixture gi'a- 
dualh^ stirring all together. Let it boil one hour, stir it 
often. 

SPLENDID OAT CAKE. 

Mrs. Kennedy, Oiren Sound. 

Take oatmeal, say three cups, and mix with one cup of 
flour, then mix in butter (well) not enough to prove sticky 
to the fingers, then pour in cold water and mix ; take on 
to the board and sprinkle tlour when necessary, when 
rolling. Be careful not to make it too wet, or it will prove 
troublesome to roll very thin ; roll thin, cut it in squares 
or three-conied pieces, and bake in a slow oven. Best 
when fresh made. 

OATMEAL CAKE, 

Mrs. Hugh Young, Sand Point. 

Put two or three handsful of meal in a bowl and moisten 
with water, merely sufficient to form into a cake. Knead 
it round with the hands on the pasteboard, strewing meal 
under and over it, to keep it froni sticking to the hands. 
It mav be made thin as a wafer, or thicker, accordinof to 
taste. Bake on a hot iron plate, until done on the under- 
side, take off and toast the underside before the fire. To 
make these cakes soft they must not be toasted before 
the fire, but both sides done quickly on the griddle. 

TO MIX OATMEAL. 

Miss M. Kingston. 

Mix oatmaal with boiling water, because it will bear 
rolling out thin for cakes. 
18 



274 T}ie Canadian Economist. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

Miss M. Kingston. 

Three and a half pints of wheat to a gallon of cold water, 
salt and boil half an hour. Dish and eat with milk. 

RICE. 

GasselVs Household Guide. 

The rice imported from Carolina is the most valued in 
this country, owing to its becoming softer when boiled 
than the other kinds. It may be distinguished from the 
Patna rice, by its grains being broader and shorter. When 
rice is eaten in large quantities, it is liable to remain un- 
digested for a considerable time. For this reason, it is 
often necessary to season the rice with warm spices or 
other condiments, but it is not lialjle to ferment nor turn 
sour in the stomach. It is most useful when employed 
in conjunction with other articles ot food. It then forms 
a light and wholesome diet, owing to the quantity of 
starchy material it contains, although as it is destitute of 
gluten, it does not afford the same amount of nourishment 
as wheat. The best way of pre|)aring rice for food, is to 
bake it in a dish with milk, either pure or diluted with 
water. When rice is cooked in a saucepan with water over 
the tire, great care should be taken not to allow the con- 
tents to boil, but only to simmer. It is also necessary to 
be careful that only a small quantity of water be employed 
for boiling the rice, for if too much is used the rice will 
absorb it and swell too much. When this food is properly 
cooked, it should be perfectly soft, and yet not broken and 
as dry as possible. 

RICE SOUFFLE E. 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Boil ground rice in milk to a thick gruel ; add pounded 
macaroons, sweeten highly, flavour with vanilla, orange- 



Boiled Rice. 275 

flower water, rose water, coffee or chocolate, mix in the 
yolk of five or six eggs, beat the whites to a froth and 
mix them in also thoroughly and evenly; turn the whole 
into a large bread tin well buttered inside (which it must 
not more than half till), or into a bruad, open tin or silver 
dish, oval or circular ; set it into a rather brisk oven ; as 
soon as well swollen and nicely browned, dust sugar over 
the top and serve. When it turns out well, this souffl^e 
is a great success, and not difficult to achieve. It depends 
on the incrredients beinor well beaten, frothed and mixed ; 
on these being put into the dish immediately aftei-wards ; 
on the sufficient temperature of the oven, and on the rapid 
transfer of the souffl^e from the oven to the dining-room. 

BOILED RICE. 

CiisselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take a sufficient quantity of rice, and pick it free from 
rough grains and other foreign substances, then wash it 
quickly in cold water, and hurry it to the pot before the 
grain has at all softened. As to the quantity of water to 
be used in boiling, there are two modes ; one is to put in 
twice as much water as rice, and allow it all to be ab- 
sorbed by the grain; the other is to put in three or four 
times as much water, but to pour almost all of it off as 
soon as the grain changes from its pearly-white colour and 
gives proof of having softened. In both modes, when 
this stage of boiling has been attained, the pot is to be with- 
drawn from the hot fire and set where it will be kept at 
a low steaming heat, until the water has all gone. This 
last process is called " soaking." Properly conducted, the 
rice comes from the pot perfectly done, of a clear, white 
colour, with each grain fii'in and distinct, and swelled to 
double its original size. Salt, of course, is to be added. 
Kice prepared in this way should not be stirred much in 
boiling, or it will become gluey; a large open fork passed 
through it once or twice will be sufficient. 



270 The Canadian Economist. 

RICE BISCUITS. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, stir into 
this four ounces of ground rice and two tablespoonsf ul of 
powdered loaf-sugar ; moisten the mixture with a well- 
beaten egg, roll it out, and stamp it into small rounds with 
a pastry cutter ; put these on a baking dish, and bake in 
a gentle oven. 

RICE blanc-man(;e. 

CasselVs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take half a pound of ground rice and boil it in a quart 
of milk or cream, adding sugar, lemon-peel and a stick of 
cinnamon or a piece of vanilla ; when the rice is well 
boiled, take out the spice and lemon-peel, dip a basin or 
mould into cold water and pour the rice into it; when the 
rice is quite cold, turn it out and serve with a custard or 
fruit sauce poured over. 

rice BLANC-MANGE. 

CasseU's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Soak the thin rind of half a lemon in a quait of milk 
till it. is pleasantly flavoured ; or, if preferred, drop into 
the milk a few drops of almond or vanilla flavouring; mix 
a quarter of a pound of rice smoothly with a portion of the 
milk, add the rest gradually together with a slice of fresh 
butter and a little sugar, and put the whole into a sauce- 
pan ; stir it over the Are and let it boil for about ten min- 
utes, or until it leaves the side of the pan ; turn it into 
a damp mould and let it stand in a cold pkce till it is set. 



CHAPTER XVI. 



MACARONI. 

Home MesseiKjt'i: 

ONE quarter of a pound of macaroni boiled in water, 
with a little salt, twenty or thirty minutes. When 
done, diain off the water, and keep the saucepan covered ; 
roll two tablespoonst'ul of butter in four of Hour ; bcil a half 
pint of cream and one pint of milk, to which add the but- 
ter and flour, and boil until it thickens, stirring all the 
time ; butter a dish and put in a first layer of macaroni ; 
then grate over this an ounce of cheese, and pour a por- 
tion of the sauce. Repeat this four times, which will fill 
your dish (use a quarter of a pound of cheese in all). 
Bake ten minutes. 

MACARONI. 

Home Messenger. 

Soak a quarter of a pound of macaroni half an hour in 
just water enough to cover it. Then put it in a buttered 
dish, add salt, butter and pepper. Grate over it about an 
ounce of cheese. Stir two eggs into one cup of milk,and 
pour over. Bake twenty minutes. The appearance of 
macaroni is improved by laying strips of puff paste cut 
with a paste jigger over the top, crossing them as you 
would for a tart. 

MACARONI. 

What I Kvow. 

La}' as much macaroni as will fill a quart t>owl, in cold 
water ; let it soak half an hour, and then put it into a 



278 Tlce Canadian Economist. 

deep baking dish ; add a pint of rich milk, a quarter of a 
pound of butter and a teaspoonful of salt ; cut in pieces ; 
over the top grate hard old English or American cheese. 
Bake an hour — it should be brown as a loaf of bread, and 
served in the baking dish. 

EXCELLENT MACARONI. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Soak the macaroni first in warm water for about half 
an hour ; throw that away, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour in fresh water; throw that away also, and boil it in 
about a pint of milk till quite tender. Be .sure it does 
not burn. Take a silver spoon, and while on the fire 
keep lifting the macaroni so that it does not stick to the 
bottom of the saucepan, which ought to be a porcelain 
one. Do not break your macaroni moie than you can 
help. 

MACARONI. 

Domestic Cookery. 

Boil four ounces of macaroni till it is quite tender, then 
lay it on a sieve to drain, and put it into a stewpan with 
about a gill of cream, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. 
Boil it five minutes, pour it on a plate, lay Parmesan 
cheese roasted all over it, and send it up on a water plate. 

MACARONI AS USUALLY SERVED. 

Warrie's Every -day Cookery. 

Half a pound of pipe macaroni, seven ounces of Parme- 
san or Cheshire cheese, four ounces of butter, one pint 
of ne^v milk, one quart of water, and some bread- 
crumbs, a pinch of salt. Flavour the milk and water 
with a pinch of salt, set it over the fire, and when boiling 
drop in the macaroni. When tender, drain it from the 
milk and water ; put it into a deep dish ; sprinkle some 



Hovj to Boil and Dress Macaroni. 279 

of the grated cheese amongst it, with part of the butter 
broken into small pieces ; place a layer of grated cheese 
over the top and cover the whole with fine bread-crumbs, 
pouring the remainder of the butter, lightly warmed, over 
the crumbs. Brown the top of the macaroni with a s&\&~ 
mander, or before the fire, turning it several times, that 
it may be nicely browned, 

MACARONI OMELET. 

Family Fi'iend. 

Take some remnants of macaroni, cut them on the 
dish with a knife or fork several times across, then beat up 
a number of eggs proportionate to the quantity ot macar- 
oni, mix well together, and turn the whole into a frying- 
pan, containing a little liquified butter. When the 
omelet has t;iken a good colour on one side, turn it once 
in a dish, then put a little more butter in the pan and 
return the omelet for the other side to colour. 

MACARONI PUDDING. 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe macaroni in a pint 
of milk, and a bit of lemon peel and cinnamon till ten- 
der, put it into a dish with milk, two or three eggs, but 
only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water 
and a glass of mola-sses. Bake with a paste round the 
edge. A layer of orange marmalade or raspberiy jam in 
a macaroni pudding, for change, is a gr?at improvement, 
in which case omit the almond water ratafia, which you 
should otherwise flavour it with. 

HOW TO BOIL AND DRESS MACARONI. 

Dominion Montldy. 

Put in an iron pot or stew-pan two quarts of water; let 
it bull, add two teaspoonsful of salt, one ounce of butter. 



280 Tlic Canadian Economist. 

then add one pound of macaroni, boil till tender, let it be 
rather firm to the touch. It is then ready for use, either 
for soup, pudding, or to be dressed with cheese. Drain it 
in a colander, put it back in the pan, add four ounces of 
cheese or more, a little butter, salt and pepper, toss it 
well together and serve. It will be found light and nu- 
tritious, and well worthy the notice of vegetarians. 

MACARONI. 

Godeys Bool: 

Boil it in milk or in weak veal broth, jjretty well fla- 
voured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish with- 
out the liquor, and among it put some bits of butter and 
grated cheese, and over the top grate more and a little 
more butter. Set the dish into an oven but do not let 
the top become hard, 

MACARONI PUDDING TO BE MADE OF COOKED MEAT. 

Godey's Book. 

Take an equal quantity of ham and chicken mixed, 
and mince them small. Then weigh out half the quan- 
tity of macaroni, which must be previously boiled tender 
in broth, two eggs beaten well, one ounce of butter, cay- 
enne pepper and salt to taste ; all these ingredients to be 
mixed thoroughly together. Put into a mould or basin 
and boil it for two hours. The macaroni must be kept 
in as long pieces as possible. 

FISH AND MACARONI. 

Godeys Book. 

Take the remains of any white boiled fish, remove the 
bones and skin, and break it in rather small pieces. Boil 
some macaroni in water till tender, drain it well and cut 
it in lengths of about an inch, and mix equal quantities 
of fish and macaroni. Then put two ounces of butter 



Macaroni Dressed Siceet. 281 

into a stewpan, add the yolks of two eggs, a little lemon- 
juice, pepper and salt, and stir in well half a pint of 
good melted butter. Make the sauce quite smooth, put 
in the fish and macaroni, and heat it thoroughly- in the 
sauce. Pour it on a dish, keeping it as high as you can 
in the centre ; cover it thinly with fine bread crumbs and 
broAvn the top in the oven till of a nice light colour. 

TO SERVE MACARONI. 

Book of the Household. 

Simmer some macaroni in a little stock with pounded 
mace and salt. WTien quite tender take it out of the 
liquor, lay it on a dish, grate over a good deal of cheese, 
and over that put finely grated bread. Warm some but- 
ter without oiling and pour it from a boat through an 
earthen colander all over the crumbs, then put the dish 
in an oven, to roast the cheese and brown the bread of a 
fine colour. The bread should be in sepai-ate crumbs and 
look light. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

Book of the Household. 

Lay fried bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your 
macaroni in the usual way and pour it into the dish, 
smooth it all over, strew bread-crumbs on it and then a 
thick layer of gmted Parmesan cheese. Drop a little 
melted butter on it, and colour it with a salamander. 

MACARONI DRESSED SWEET. 

Book of the Household. 

Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of milk, with a 
bit of lemon-peel and a good piece of cinnamon till the 
pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. 
Lay them on a custard dish and jjour a hot custard over 
them, 



CHAPTER XVII. 
EGGS. 

TO KEEP EGGS FRESH. 

Mrs. Bangs. 

ri'^WO gallons of water mixed with half a pint of salt 
I and half a pint of unslacked lime. Make the pickle 
with boiling water. Put it cold to the eggs. Let the 
eggs be new laid and perfect ; quite covered with the 
lime water and kept in a cool place. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Mrs. Donaldson. 

Take ten eggs, boil hard, peel and cut off the small ends, 
then take out the yolks ; rub into a bowl and mash well, 
then add a teacupful of bread-crumbs, teacupful of milk, 
in half a teacupful of butter, pepper and salt. Fill the 
whites with the di'essing, and pour any that is over into 
a dish, and bake to a light brown. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

The Invalid Cook. 

Take twenty eggs and boil them hard. When cold 
take off the shells, and put them into a deep jar. Pour 
boiling pickle over them, and when cold tie them down 
tightly. They jv'xW be fit for use in about a month, or 
when they have turned colour. For the pickle, take three 



To Pickle Eggs. 283 

pints of the best white wine vinegar, two ounces of whole 
blackpepper,one ounce of bruised ginger, two ounces of mus- 
tard seed, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Boil these ingredients together for about 
eight or ten minutes after coming to a boil, and then pour 
them immediately over the eggs. 

CUPPED EGGS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Put a spoonful of very nice high-seasoned brown gravy 
into each cup ; set the cup into a saucepanful of boiling 
water ; when the gravy heats, drop a fresh egg into each 
cup ; take off the saucepan and cover it close till the eggs 
are tenderly and and nicely cooked ; dredge them with a 
very tine mace or nutmeg and salt, serve then on a hot- 
water plate, covered with a napkin. 

PICKLE FOR EGGS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Nine quails of water, four quarts of salt, one and a 
half ounces of cream of tartar, one quart of diy lime, 
fresh, dissolved in the water. The .same pickle will do 
for several yeai-s. It should be made in a tub or barrel. 

TO PICKLE EGGS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Select three or four dozen of the freshest eggs, wliich 
put into a large saucepan until the same are boiled thor- 
oughly hard. Then transpose them into a pan of cold 
water, which admits of the shells being removed with 
greater facility. When they are ready, place on the fire- 
side a saucepan, containing half a gallon of good brown 
vinegar, into which put one ounce of whole black-pepper, 
half an ounce of allspice, the .same of mace, one ounce of 
race ginger, a few cloves and garlic, and one ounce of salt, 



284 The Canadian Economist. 

with a tablespoonful of mustard seed. Let the vinegar 
continue seething for one hour, until the essential proper- 
ties of the spices are taken up by the liquor. Then care- 
fully lay the eggs whole in as many jars as are required 
to hold them, and having taken off the vinegar, and per- 
mitted it to become quite cold, pour it over the eggs in 
the jars, taking care to submerge them in the pickle. 
Finally, cover them closely, and place them in a cool 
apartment. Use them in a month. A nice garnish for 
cold meat. 

TO KEEP EGGS. 

Mm. Thos. McKay. 

When quite new laid, butter well with fresh butter. 
Remember if a pin's point is passed over, the egf^ spoils ; 
rub it well all over them and place in jars, shaking over 
each layer of eggs bran, dry sand or salt. Wasli them 
when about to use them, and you would say they have 
only been laid to-day. 

TO FRV EGGS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

To fry eggs nicely requires some little attention, as they 
are apt to become hard, black, and unpalatable. There 
should be plenty of butter, lard, or dripping, and care 
taken not to let them be overdone. If ham or bacon is 
fried with them, it must be done first, and the eggs after- 
Avards. 

EGG CHEESE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Beat six eggs well and put them into three gills of new 
milk, with sugar, cinnamon and lemon-peel to your lik- 
ing. Set it over the fire, keep stirring it, and squeeze a 
quarter of a lemon into it to turn it to cheese. Let it run 
into whatever shape you prefer ; when it is cold, turn it 



Egg>i a.Tul Cmmmhers. 285 

out, and pour over it a little almond cream made thus : 
heat some sweet almonds tine with a little cream ; then 
put into them a pint of cream, let it boil, and strain it; add 
the yolks of three eggs well-beaten. Set it over the fire 
and make it like a custard. 

PACKING EGGS. 

Mrs. W. B. Mc Arthur, Carlton Place. 

One pint of unslacked lime, one pint of coarse salt, two 
gallons of boiling water. Let it stand until cold ; pack 
the eggs in layers, and pour the liquid over. 

EGGS AND SAUSAGE. 

How *o cook eggs i» 100 different ways. 

Cut some slices of Bologna or Spanish sausage. Toss 
them in butter or olive oil. Fry them nicely, and lay one 
on each piece of sausage ; aiTange among them some pars 
ley leaves, fried crisp, and serve as hot as possible. 

ERICAS EE OF EGGS. 

How to cook eggs in 100 different ivays. 

Take some hard-boiled eggs, cut them into quarters, 
yolks and whites. Heat some gravy, seasoned with shred 
lemon-peel, pai-sley, thyme and grated nutmeg. Put in 
the eggs, together with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; 
shake it gently over the ihe until properly thickened ; 
garnish with artichoke bottoms, sliced thin and fried, and 
tufts of hard boiled eggs chopped small. 

KGGS AND CUCUMBERS. 

Hoir to cook eggs in 100 diferent ways. 

Pare some cucumbei-s and cut them into pieces, the size 
of dice. Put them into a stew-pan with a slice of ham 
and an onion stuck with cloves, and a few spoonsful of 



286 The Canadian Economist. 

good gravy; simmer it slowly, shaking it occasionally 
until done. Take out the ham and onion ; stir into it the 
3'olks of two eggs beaten up in a teacupful of cream. 
Put it into a dish, lay half a dozen poached eggs on the 
top, and squeeze some lemon juice over it. 

EGGS LIKE TRIPE. 

How to cook eggs in 100 different vxiys. 

Hard boil a dozen eggs and cut them into slices ; peel 
some small pickling onions, and fry them gently in butter 
over a slow fire ; dust them with Hour. Moisten them 
with equal quantities of stock and cream, add a little salt 
and pepper and stew them till quite tender ; then add the 
eggs, and give them a warm, up ; serve as hct as possible. 

EGGS AND ONIONS. 

Cassell's Dictionary. 

Fry some onions nicely sliced in butter. Put a rather 
large sprinkling of cayenne pepper over them. Drain 
them fi'om the butter and put them on a dish before the 
fire to dry a little. Press out the juice of a lemon over 
them, and then lay nicely poached eggs on the top. 
Serve very hot ; time to fry onions five minutes ; to poach 
eggs three to four minutes; six eggs sufficient for three 
persons. 

EGGS AND POTATOES. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

Boil seven or eight flow^ery potatoes and mash them 
while quite hot; add one ounce of butter, the yolk of an 
6gg' pepper and salt, and if liked "a little pounded onion 
and boiled mince parsley. Roll the potatoes into egg-like 
shape, brush them over with beaten eggs, and cover with 
fine bread crumbs, well seasoned with salt and white pep- 
per. Put them into an oven to brown, or fry in lard or 



Eggs Fricasseed. 287 

dripping till they are of a fine brown colour. Lay them 
before the tire to drain, and serve garnished with fried 
parsley. 

BEATING KGGS. 

CasseU's Dictionary. 

This is best done with rods of wood, in a shallow, flat- 
bottomed pan; bestow the beating with short, quick, 
downward strokes, without moving the elbow, which 
should be kept close to the side. When the foaming and 
bubbles disappear, and the beaten eggs assume the appear- 
ance which has been well described as that of a lich 
boiled custard, your task will have been very well accom- 
plished. 

FGGS BROILED. 

CasseU's Dictionary. 

Cut a slice the whole round of a quartern loaf, toast it 
lightly, trim the edges, and lay it on a dish before the lire, 
with some bits of butter placed over it. When this melts, 
break or spread carefully six or eight on the toast. Have 
ready a salamander, and when the eggs are sufficiently 
done, squeeze a Seville omnge, or grate some nutmeg over 
them. 

EGGS FllICASSEED. 

CasseU's Dictionary. 

Dissolve two ounces butter in a stewpan, and stir into 
it a little flour. Boil eight e^r^s hard, cut them after tak 
ing oft' the shell into quarters, add them to the butter in 
the stewpan, throw ever them a good quantity of shred 
parsley, a little nutmeg and salt, and shake the pan round 
till the ingredients are well absorbed by the eggs, then 
throw in a small cupful of cream, shake the pan again, 
and do not break the ejjgs. When the sauce is thick and 
fine, put the eggs on a dish and serve with the sauce 
thrown over, and a garnish of lemons around the dish. 



288 Tlte Canadian Economist. 

STEAMED EGGS. 

Cassell's Dictionary. 

Break half a dozen eggs into separate cups, and have 
ready a well buttered dish, into which each egg should 
be placed carefully. Cover the dish to prevent the heat 
from escaping, and set it over a pan of boiling water, first 
putting small bits of butter lightly over the top of the 
eggs. When they are set sufficiently, sprinkle them with 
a little salt, and serve with fried ham or sausages. 

SPUN EGGS. 

CasseWs Dictionary. 

This preparation is used principally as a garnish for 
other sweet dishes. Prepare a syrup of sugar and water, 
and beat up eight eggs with a dessertspoonful of arrow- 
root. Boil the syrup in a large stewpan, and when it is 
quite hot force the mixture of egg and arrowroot through 
a colander into the boiling syrup. 

CURRIED EGGS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Three hard-boiled eggs, one ounce of butter, half pound 
of flour, half a pint of milk, pepper and salt, one dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder, one teaspoonful of vinegar. 
Cut the eggs in slices, melt the butter, stir in the flour, 
add the milk, stir until it boils, add curry powder, sugar, 
vinesrar, and egrffs. 

TO KKEP EGGS. 

Mrs. Young, Gait. 

Put the eggs into boiling water, and keep them there 
until you can count twenty. Then pack them in salt. A 
basket can be used for putting the eggs into the water. 



Eggs vnth Asparagus. 289 

TO PICKLE EGGS. 

AnonyTnous. 

To eight eggs one pint of vinegar, half-ounce of whole 
pepper, and half-ounce of whiteginger. Boil theeggs from 
twelve to fifteen minutes. Dip in coM water and remove 
the shells. Let the spice simmer in the vinegar ten 
minutes. Put the eggs in a jar and pour the spiced vin- 
egar on while hot. When cold, tie down, and carefully 
exclude the air. They will ue fit for use in a month. 

EGG OMELET. 

Miss McRea, Renfrew. 

Beat six eggs (after seasoning with pepper and .salt) 
when ready for the pan, add two tables poo nsful of sweet 
milk, have the butter in the pan nicely browned before 
putting in the omelet. When well done cut in two and 
double together. 

EGG ROLLS. 

Book of the Household. 

Boil a quart of new milk with half a pound of butter, 
the .same of lard and a little salt, beat up two eggs and 
pour the boiling milk on them stirring all the time. 
When nearly cold add a teacupful of yeast and as much 
wheat flour as will make it a thick batter. W^hen quite 
light knead it up as bread and let it lighten before mould- 
ing out, grease the pans and bake them with a moderate 
heat. A little sugar and water rubbed on just before 
baking rolls makes them glossy. 

EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS. 

Book of the Household. 

Cut some asparagus that has been prev-iously boiled the 
same size as peas, break six eggs into a basin, beat them 
19 



290 The Canadian Economist. 

up, put them with a little pepper, salt and the asparagus 
into a stewpan with two ounces of butter and keep stir- 
ring all the time it is on the fire. When it becomes thick 
it is done, then put a tojist on the dish and pour the eggs 
and asparagus on the toast. This should be served up 
immediately when done, for if permitted to stand it will 
not be done. 

EGGS AND ANCHOVIES (iN SAVOY JELLY). 

Booh of the Household. 

Take ten good anchovies, clean them, cut them into 
shreds and lay them on a plate, poach five Ggg^ in vinegar 
and water, and as you ]ioach them put them in cold water, 
then take a plain mould and into the bottom of the mould 
put a little savoy jelly. As soon as it is set take the an- 
chovies and neatly cross them on the jelly. Trim your 
eggs very nicely and with care, lay them on the anchovies 
and neatly pour on a little jelly nearly cold. When the 
anchovies are well set fill up the mould, keep it on ice till 
it is wanted and then turn it out like any other jelly. 




CHAPTER XVIII. 
SALADS. 

SALAD. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

rf^WO chickens boiled, the white and brown meat well 
I chopped ; the same quantity of celery chopped, six 
tablespoonsful of melted butter, yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs, one raw yolk, one thimbleful of vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of mixed mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, a little 
red pepper. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

Made in the same way a,s chicken salad, only use let- 
tuce and oil instead of celer}- and melted butter. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Doiuddson. 

Two chickens well boiled and chopped fine, the yolks of 
six hard-boiled eggs, one bunch of celery chopped fine, a 
small teaspoonful of fine salt, one teaspoonful of Cayenne 
pepper, half a gill of made mustard, a wineglassful of 
vinegar, two of sweet oil. Fii-st mix the chicken and 
celerv together and cover until the dressing is made. 
Ma.sh the yolks to a paste and mix them well with the 
Other ingredients, then pour on the chicken and celery. 



292 The Canadian Economist. 

and mix the whole well together with a silver fork. Gar- 
nish the dish with the whites of the eggs and the leaves 
of the lettuce. The whites can be cut into scallops or as 
fancy suggests. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Mrs. S. W. Dydc, Ottawa. 

For a medium sized lobster take two tablespoonsful of 
best olive oil to three of vinegar, three teaspoonsful of 
mustard, a sprinkle of cayenne pepper, one hard-boiled 
egg. Mix together and garnish with lettuce. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Boil a chicken that weighs not more than a pound and 
a half. When very tender take it up, cut in small strips, 
take six or seven fine white heads of celery, scrape and 
wash them. Cut the white part in pieces about three- 
quarters of an inch long, mix it with the meat of the 
fowl. Place the delicate leaves of the celery around the 
edges of the dish. Just before the salad is sent in, pour 
over it a dressing made thus : — Boil four eggs hard, rub 
their yolks to a smooth paste with two tablespoonsful of 
olive oil, two teaspoonsful of made mustard, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one teacupful of strong vinegar. White 
heart lettuce may be used instead of celery and any other 
dressing if preferred. 

SALAD MIXTURE. 

One raw egg, one saltspoonful of salt, heat until tho- 
roughly smooth, then incorporate one teaspoonf ul of thick 
mustard ; when these are quite smooth, add by degrees 
one, two or three tablespoonsful of good salad oil, blend 
each portion with the egg before adding more. This 
ought to make any quantity up to a teacupful as thick 
and smooth as honey. With vinegar make of the thick- 



Chicken Salad. 293 

ness of thick cream. A little anchovy may be added. 
This is the smoothest and nicest mixture, while the oily 
flavour is lost. 

CENTENNIAL CABBAGE SALAD. 

Mrs. Perley, Ottawa. 

One Qgg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
salt, quarter-teaspoontul of cayenne pepper, one teaspoon- 
ful of mixed mustard, butter the size of an tgg, half a 
cup of vinegar. Mix all together, and set the dish in a 
kettle of boiling water, till it thickens, stirring it all 
the time ; chop the cabbage tine, and pour the dressing 
over it. 

DRESSING FOK SALAD. 

Mrs. Perley, Ottawa. 

Three eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, two tablespoons- 
ful of butter, one tablespoonful of salt, one of vinegar, 
one of mixed mustard. Beat the whites of the eggs sepa- 
rate, and add the last thing before pouring over the salad. 
Stir the ingredients together, and put the dish in a kettle 
of boiling water; stir till it thickens; when cold, add 
sweet cream (milk will do) enough to make of the con- 
sistency of boiled custard. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottaiva. 

Two large fowls (boiled) and two heads of celery chop- 
ped fine ; the yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs, half a pint 
of melted butter, half a pint of vinegai-, one gill of mixed 
mustard, one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and one of 
salt. Mix chicken and celerv tocjether, mash ecjgs to paste 
when warm, then mix with the other ingredients, pour it 
over the chicken and celery, and thoroughly mix. 



294 The Canadian Economist. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Miss Minnie White, Hamilton. 

To one chicken the yolks of four eggs, beaten up with 
half a cupful of milk. Put on the stove and stir briskly. 
When warm add half a cu})ful of vinegar; when it thickens 
remove from the fire. Mustard, pepper and salt may be 
added when cold ; put the dressing (m the minced chicken 
boiled, and celery \Aith chicken. Dress the dish with 
celery leaves. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Kimhalls, New York, per Mrs. White. 

Cut fine one chicken and one head of celer3^ Salad dress- 
ing: — Beat the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs smooth, to 
each egg one teaspoonful of made mustard, half as much 
salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter or oil, a wineglasf-;ful 
of strong vinegar. Cut whites of eggs in rings and place 
round the dish for ornament. 

FRESH TOMATOES. 

Home Messenger. 

These make a delightful salad sliced, and havinof a table- 
gpoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of oil, a saltspoonful of 
mustard, and a saltspoonful of salt poured over them. 

SIMPLE POTATO SALAD. 

Home Messenger. 

Boil 3'our potatoes, then skin and slice while hot into a 
covered vegetable dish ; have all ready. A dressing : — 
One-third of a teacupful of boiling water, one-third or more 
of vinegar, and a little more oil than vinegar ; slice a 
small onion thin, and lay between the layers of potato ; 
when the dish is full, pour the dressing over it; cover 
nnd put away to cool. Just before serving, stir it with a 



Miss Smith's Mayonnaise. 295 

salad fork or spoon. Mix the oil, vinegar, salt and pepper 
well together, and then add the hot water. 

CHICKEX SALAD. 

Home Messenger. 

Boil until tender two nice fowls, throw into the water 
a small handful of rice, which will make the meat white. 
When cold, cut with a sharp knife into pieces about one 
quai-ter inch square ; add one quart of celery cut coarse ; 
mix well tocrether. Boil six eggs very hard; take the 
yolks and stir with the bowl of a spoon, adding one gill 
of table oil or melted butter, until the consistency of 
cream, one teaspoonful of pepper, two tablespoonsful of 
mixed mustard, one teacupful of strong vinegar, one and a 
half cupful of grated horse-radish, one and a half cupful of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of salt, beat well one and a half 
hour before using ; mix well with the chicken before sers- 
ing. Ornament the top of the dish with the tops of the 
celery and the whites of the eggs. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

Rub the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs till smooth, and 
mix in a saltspoonful of powdered loaf-sugar, half a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, and the well-beaten yolk of a 
raw egg ; add gradually four tablespoonsful of thick cream, 
and two tablespoonsful of strained lemon juice ; beat the 
dressing thoroughly between every addition. 

MISS smith's mayonnaise. 

Anonymous. 

Five eggs beaten separately, two tablespoonsful of mixed 
mustard, butter of the size of an e^g^ two teaspoonsful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of red pepper, three tablespoonsful 
of the finest table oil, one pint of thick cream : scald the 



296 The Canadian Economist. 

cream, stir in the yolks and continue to stir until it be- 
gins to thicken, then add the mustard, salt, kc, and two 
or three tablespoonsful of very strong vinegar ; then let 
it cool and add tlie whipped froth of the eggs ; beat all 
thoroughly together ; do not pour over the chicken and 
celery until just before using. 

BOILED SALAD. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

This is best compounded of boiled or baked onions (if 
Portugal, the better), some baked beet-root, cauliflower, 
or brocoli and boiled celery and French beans, or any of 
these articles with the common salad dressing ; add to this, 
to give it an enticing appeai-ance, and to give some of the 
crispness and freshness so jDleasant in salad, a small quan- 
tity of raw endive or lettuce and chervil, or burnet strewed 
on the top. This is by far more wholesome than the raw 
salad, and is much eaten when put on the table. The 
above sauce is equally good with cold meat, cold fish, or 
for cucumbers, celery, radishes, &c., and all the other vege- 
tables that are sent to table undressed. 

EVERY-DAY SALAD, 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

In warm weather, cold meat sent to table with a good 
salad and little cucumber or pickle, often proves more ac- 
ceptable than the most expensive joint if served hot. To 
make the salad, wash one or two lettuces, throw away the 
outer and decayed leaves, and wash the others, handling 
them as lightly as ])ossible ; drain them and dry them 
perfectly, first by shaking them in a colander or salad 
basket, and afterwards by shaking them in a napkin held 
loosely by the four corners ; Avhen the napkin has ab- 
sorbed all the moisture, shred the lettuce with a silver 
knife, if possible ; rub the salad bowl three or four times 



Forced Eggs far Salad. 297 

across with a clove of garlic or with a slice of onion, and 
put in the shred lettuce ; mix thoroughly in the salad 
spoon a saltspoonful of salt, half a one of pepper, and a 
mustardspoonful of mixed mustard. Sprinkle the season- 
ing over the salad and work it well in; pour upon it as 
much lucca oil as will cover it, and work this in ; then 
add a tablespoonful of good vinegar, and, if it can be had, 
a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. The salad should 
not be mixed till the moment of serving. If liked, shred 
celer}', a head of endive, small salad, water-cress, sliced 
beetroot, sliced cucumber, spring radishes and chopped 
green onions may be added to the salad. Plenty of time 
must be given for drying the lettuce perfectly, as the suc- 
cess of a salad depends in a great measure upon the let- 
tuce being quite dry. 

SALAD FOR WINTER. 

Take young, tender colewort plants, sorrel lettuce, en- 
dive, celery, pareley, full-grown onions, which are better 
to cut and eat in winter with salads than young ones, and 
season them with salt, cream and vinegar ; add sugar, if 
appioved. 

FORCED EGGS FOR SALAD. 

Bovj Bells. 

Pound and press through the back of a hair-sieve the 
flesh of three very fine, or of four moderate sized, ancho- 
vies, freed from the bones and skin ; boil six fresh eggs 
for twelve minutes, and when they are perfectly cold 
halve them lengthwise, take out the yolks, pound them to 
a paste with a-third of their volume of fresh butter, then 
add the anchovies, half a teaspoonful of mace, and as 
much cajenne as will season the mixture well ; beat these 
together thoroughly, and fill the whites of eggs neatly 
with them ; a morsel of garlic not bigger than a pea, per- 
fectl}- blended with the other ingredients, greatly im- 
proves this preparation. 



298 The Canadian Economist. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Family Fiiend. 

Boil a cauliflower in salted water till tender, but not 
overdone ; when cold cut it up neatly in small sprigs ; 
beat up together three tablepoonsful of oil and one of 
tarragon vinegar with pepper and salt to taste ; rub the 
dish slightly with garlic, arrange the pieces of cauliflower 
on it ; strew over them some capers, and serve. 




CHAPTER XIX. 
PIES. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. Alloivay, Winnijyeg. 

BOIL nearly one pint of new milk ; take two small 
tablespoonsful of corn starch beaten with a little 
milk, to this add the yolks of two ess^ when the milk has 
boiled ; stir this in slowly with sugar to sweeten it, and 
a tablespoouful of butter — flavour with vanilla. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Miss Berry, Toronto. 

Three cupsful of stewed apples, nearh' a cupful of white 
sugar, six eggs, one quart of milk. ]^lake the stewed apple 
very sweet and let it cool. Beat the eggs light and mix 
the yolks well with the apple, seasoning with nutmeg 
only, then stir in gi-adually the milk, beating as you go 
on ; lastly add the whites. Fill jour crust and bake 
without cover. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Miss Berry, Toronto. 

Three eggs, three-fourths of a cupful of white sugar, two 
tablespoonsful of butter, one of omnge juice, and half the 
grated nnd of half a lemon, juice and grated peel, nutmeg 
to taste. Cream the butter and sugar, beating in the 
orange and lemon until very light ; add the beaten volks. 



300 The Canadian Economist. 

fill two pastry shells and bake. Beat the whites stiff 
with two tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, and when the 
pies are done spread over them, returning them to the 
oven for two or three minutes. 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

Miss Berry, Toronto. 

Stew and sweeten ripe juicy apples ; when you have 
pared and sliced them, mash smooth and season with nut- 
meg if you like the flavour. Stew some lemon-peel with 
the apple and remove when cold. Fill your crust and 
bake until just done. Spread over the apple a thick 
meringue made by whipping to a stiff froth the whites of 
three eggs for each pie, sweetening with a tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar for each ag^. Flavour this with rosewater 
or vanilla, beat until it will stand aloiie, and cover the 
pie three-fourths of an inch thick. Set back in the oven 
until the meringue is well set. Should it colour too dark- 
ly, sift powdered sugar over when cold. 

CREAM PIE. 

Miss Berry, Toronto. 

Six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, two cupsful of flour, two 
teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in two teaspoonsful of cold milk ; rub the cream 
of tartar in the flour. This quantity makes three pies. 
Bake them ; when cold split them and put in the cream. 

Cream for inside — One pint of milk, one cupful of 
sugar, half a cupful of flour, two eggs. Beat eggs, sugar 
and flour together, and pour into the milk when boiling ; 
juice and grated rind of a lemon. Flavour with vanilla. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Brown, Ottawa. 

For one Pie — One egg, one soda cracker, one lemon ; 
grate the rind, and mix the pulp with a fork. Two table- 



Jelly Tarts. 301 

spoonsful of white sugar ; wet the cracker with hot water 
and use puff paste. 

LEMON PIE. 

Miss MfMjgie Bunt in, Bradford, Pa. 

Yolks of three eggs, one cupful of white sugar, one cupful 
of milk, one large lemon, grate, the rind, cut off the tough 
skin and chop the pulp; one tablespoonful of cornstarch 
or flour. Fill a rich crust with this ; beat the whites of 
three eggs to a stiff froth ; add four teaspoonsful of white 
sugar, and when baked spread this on the top and bake 
lightly. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Afiss Maggie Bunt in, Bradford, Pa. 

Take nice sweet apples, pare and grate fine, add sweet 
milk as for pumpkin pie, one egg to a pie ; add sugar to 
taste. Bake with one crust. 

LEMON PIE (simple AND GOOD). 

Mrs. Baldwin, Ottawa. 

Line pie-plate with a rich crust, peel and slice one and 
a half lemon into it, taking out all seeds. Beat together 
three ^'ggs, one cupful of sugar and one of water, and pour 
over the lemons. Cover with crust and bake. 

JELLY TARTS. 

Mrs. H. F. Brunson, Ottawa. 

One pound of sifted flour, three-fourths of a pound of 
butter rubbed in well ; mix with about a pint of cold 
water in which a bit of sal-volatile the size of a large pea 
dissolved in a little cold wat<.'r has been put. Beat the 
whole with the rolling pin and cut into round cakes; wet 
the top with a beaten eg§, and strew on white sugar. 



302 The Canadian Economist. 

Bake in a quick oven, and when done put a spoonful of 
jelly in the centre of each. 

REAL CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One pint of sweet cream, one cupful of sugar, two large 
tablespoonsful of corn-starch. Beat the yolks of two eggs 
with the corn-starch thoroughly ; then scald in boiling 
water until thick enough for pie. Bake crust separate. 
Fill when cold. 

FINE PUFF PASTRY. 

Miss CarmicJiacl, Brysor. 

One pound of butter, three cupsful of flour ; cut the but- 
ter through the flour, one cupful and a half of ice water, 
the whites of two eggs. Avoid kneading. Boil out. Use 
the hands as little as possible in mixing. 

CHICKEN POTPIE. 

3Irs. S. Christie. 

One bowlful of Hour, one teaspoonful of salt, two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, one cupful of sweet milk, two 
eggs. Mix in the baking powder and salt in the flour, stir up 
the eggs and milk, and mix all together. Drop the batter 
in by spoonsful, but fi rst take the pot off* the stove to let 
it off the boil. The batter is added twenty minutes before 
the chicken is done. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

One cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn-starch, juice 
of one lemon, yolks of two eggs. Mix together as for cus- 
tard. Pour over one cupful of boiling water, and cool until 
thick. The crust is nice, if cooked before the filling is 
added, pricking it well with a fork. Whites frothed for 
the top with sugar and flavouring, and brown lightly. 



Cream Pie. 303 

CORN-STARCH PIE. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

The yolks of six eggs, three pints of milk, six table- 
spoonsful of white sugar, two tablespoonsful of corn -starch, 
vanilla and lemon. Boil the milk, stir in the corn-starch, 
wet in a little cold milk, and boil one minute. When 
nearly cold, stir in the sugar, yolks of all the eggs, and 
whites of two. Pour into paste shells and set in the oven. 
Whip the remaining whites, flavour and sweeten and pour 
over the top. Do this quickly, lest the custard fall, brown 
lightly. Eat cold. 

APPLE PIES. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

Pare, core, and slice some apples. Fill your pie-plate, 
not having any undercrust. Mix up a biscuit crust, a little 
shorter is better, do not roll very thin, and having sea- 
soned and sweetened the apples, lay the paste over the 
top, a pint of crust for one pie is about the quantity used. 
When done, lay a plate over the top, and turn your pie 
out. It wnll thus have no top-crust. Must be eaten 
warm with cream. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. Donnely, Ironsides. 

Thre eeggs,one cupful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of cold 
water, with a pinch of soda dissolved in it,also a pinch of salt, 
one and a half cupsful of flour, with a teaspoonful and a half 
of baking powder. Baked in Sandwich tins, a hot oven 
to be required. The following is the filling to be used : 
one cupful milk, beat nearly all with one egg and a cupful 
and a half of sugar and scald Avith rest of milk. Mix two 
tablespoonsful of corn-stai'ch , add to the other slowly, and 
let it boil till it thickens, stirring constantly. Best fla- 
voured with vanilla. 



304 The Canadian Economist. 

SEA FOAM PIE. 

Mrs. Dewar. 

Take one lemon, grate the peel, S({ueeze the pulp and 
juice into a bowl. Be sure to remove every seed, to which 
add a teacupful of white sugar, one of milk, a tablespoon- 
ful of corn-starch and the yolks of two eggs. Pour this 
mixture in a nice crust ; bake slowly. Beat the whites 
of two eggs to a stiff Iroth, [)ourit over the pie when tione. 
Return it to the oven long enough to stiffen, not to brown. 

LEMON PIES. 

Mrs. Winslow. 

Take three good lemons, roll them until soft, take the 
juice out into a dish, pick out the seed, chop the peel very 
fine, chop one teacuj)ful of raisins, add the whole together 
with one and a half cupful of molasses; stir it well, put in 
a little water and fiour. Do not hurry the baking, as it 
will run out. 

ECONOMICAL PASTRY. 

Mrs. Winslow. 

Take one pound of fiour, rub half a pound of lard, drop- 
ping water in a little at a time in order that the fiour will 
not be sticky ; as you mix the water in, put the dough to 
one side, so that it will not get wet again, it spoils the 
paste. Add a teaspoonful of salt. 

PUFF PASTE WITH MILK. 

Mrs. Winsloiv. 

Mix with a spoon three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
with one pound of fiour, then add milk enough to moisten 
the whole, so as to roll easily. Do not mould it with the 
hands at all, or as little as possible, and the crust will be 
found much nicer made in that way than in the old ways 
requiring more labour. 



Cheese Pie. liOo 

PIE PLANT PIE. 

Mrs. George Elliott, Ottaiva. 

One cupful of stewed pie plant, one cupful of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of flour, yolk of one eg>y; flavour with lemon, 
beat all together thoroughly. Don't use pie plant too hot 
for fear it will cook the egg. Bake with just an under- 
crust and use white of an egg for frosting. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. George Elliott, Ottawa. 

One lemon rind and juice, one cupful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of water, one tablespoonful of corn-starch cooked in 
water till thick, three eofffs, two of whites saved for frost- 
ing, half a cupful of sugar. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mr8. Garland. 

One egg, one lemon, one cupful of brown sugar. Beat 
well together and bake in pufl* paste ; when baked spread 
over the white of one egg beaten to a stift" froth and sweet- 
ened. 

LEMON PIE. 

Anonymous. 

Boil one pint of new milk with two ounces of butter, 
and pour on three well-beaten eggs. When quite cool add 
the juice of one lemon and the peel finely chopped. Pour 
into a dish lined with puff" p^iste. Bake in a cool oven. 

CHEESE PIE. 

Mrs. (Hon.) G^'ant, Pictou, N. S. 

One half-pound of grated cheese, two eggs, one teacups 
ful of cream, one teaspoonful of salt. Grease a shallow 
20 



30G Tlic, Cctnadian Economisi. 

plate, in it put the cheese ami butter in small pieces ; beat 
the eggs, add the cream and salt, and pour over the cheese. 
Bake in a quick oven ten minutes. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. If. Hutchison. 

Two pounds of beef, two pounds of suet, two pounds of 
raisins, two pounds of currants, four ])ounds of apples, two 
pounds of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, spices — pepper, 
allspice, cinnamon, ground cloves, mace, a quart of sweet- 
cider. Chop the meat, suet, and fruit fine. Mix all well 
together. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Mrs. W. M. Hutchison. 

The juice and rind of an orange, one cupful of sugar, the 
yolk of two eggs, two tablespoonsful of flour, a teacup- 
ful of milk ; line the dish with paste, pour in the custards. 
Bake till done ; beat the whites of the eggs to a .stiff froth, 
add four tablespoonsful of pulverized sugar, spread it on 
the pie and brown lightly. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. McTaggart, New Edinburgh. 

Two tablespoonsful of melted butter, ten tablespoonsful 
of sugar, one cupful of milk or cream, two lemons, white of 
one egg, yolks of three eggs, a little corn-starch. Frosting 
for pie. VV^hites of two eggs, four tablespoonsful of sugar. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. Eraser, Almonte. 

Boil one pound of the lean of fresh beef When it is 
quite cold, chop it fine, chop one and a half of beef suet, 
and three juicy apples that have been pared and cored, 



Lemon Pic. 307 

three pounds of raisins chopped, three pounds of currants 
well washed and dried. Mix all together, add two table- 
spoonsful of gi'ound cinnamon, two grated nutmegs, one 
pound of brown sugar, one pint of molasses, half a pound 
of citron. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Mrs. McGillivray. 

Joint the chickens which should be young and tender. 
Boil them in just sufficient water to cover them. When 
nearly done take them out of the liquor and lay them in 
a deep pudding dish, lined with pie-crust, add a little of 
the liquor in which they were boiled, and a couple of 
ounces of butter and a little salt. Sprinkle flour over the 
whole, cover it with nice pie-crust and ornament the top 
with some of your pastrj-. Bake it in a quick oven one 
hour. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. (Rev. K.) McLennan, P.E.I. 

Six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, two eupsful of flour, one 
teaspoonful of soda, and two teaspoonsful of cream of tar- 
tar. Beat the sugar and eofcrs together. The cream. Three 
eggs (v'olks only), one tablespoonful of flour, and two table- 
spoonsful of corn-starch ; sweetened and flavour to taste, 
add one pint of fresh milk to it. When nearly cold spread 
it on the cake ; make a stiff" whip of the whites of four 
eggs and sugar for the top, and brown lightly in the oven. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. McQuarrie. 

Take four lemons, grate the rind, squeeze the juice, chop 
the pulp very fine, four teacupsful of sugar, the yolks of 
six eggs, two teacupsful of milk, four tablespoonsful of corn- 
starch. Beat well together ; cover your pie plates with a 
rich puff" paste. Fill with the mixture and baJse ; beat the 



308 The Canadian Economist. 

whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add six tablespoons- 
ful of white sugar. When the pies are baked, put the froth 
on them and set them in the oven until they are of a 
delicate brown. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Mrs. Phillip Monson, Ottaiva. 

Yolks of six eggs, one cupful of sugar, two large spoons- 
ful of flour, two cupsful of milk. Scald the custard. 
Bake the crust first, then fill with custard. Take the 
whites and beat to a froth, and add three tablespoonsful 
of sugar. 

APPLE PIE. 

Miss M. Kingston. 

Pare and chop into small bits half a dozen of easily 
cooked apples. Dry some bread ; roll into crumbs ; butter 
a dish, place in it a layer of crumbs, a layer of apple, sugar, 
spice and beef suet, chopped as fine as possible, added to 
the crumbs, and so on in alternate layers. Pour in half a 
pint of milk. Bake until nicely browned. Serve with 
hard sauce. 

APPLE PIE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Pare, core and quarter the apples ; boil the cores and 
parings in sugar and water; strain off the liquor, adding 
more sugar; grate the rind of a lemon over the apples, 
and squeeze the juice into the syrup ; mix half a dozen of 
cloves with the fruit, put in a piece of butter the size of 
a walnut. Cover with pufi' paste. 

APPLE PIE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Pare and quarter the apples ; scald them. Beat them 
with a spoon with some of the liquor, add grated lemon- 



Mince Meat. 309 

peel, the juice of a lemon or Seville orange, or a part of a 
quince, when they are to be got, cloves, white sugar, 
finely pounded, and a piece of butter ; put a paste around 
the dish, and cover it with bars or tlowere of paste — the 
excellence of this pie consisting of the sort of apple, and 
the goi^ness of the paste. The fruit should be raised in 
the middle, sis it shrinks in the baking. 

VEHMICELLI PIE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Take an earthen dish that is pretty deep, laib the inside 
with two ounces of butter, then spread over it two ounces 
of vermicelli, make a good putf paste, roll it pretty thick, 
and lay it on the dish. Take three or four pigeons, sea- 
son them well with pepper and salt, put a good lump of 
butter in them, and lay them in the dish with the breast 
down ; put a thick lid over them, and bake the pie in a 
moderate oven. When done enough turn the pie on to 
the dish you intend to serve it on. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Fifty oysters, three eggs, boiled hard and cut up very 
fine, a few crumbs of bread, a large slice of butter, nut- 
meg, pepper and salt. Bake it in a paste. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. McTavi^h, Osgoode. 

One pound of raisins, chopped fine, one and a half 
pounds of currants, half-pound of brown sugar, two pounds 
of apples, minced fine, one teacupf ul of sweet cider, two 
nutmegs, half a teaspoonfui of cinnamon and allspice, half 
a cupful of molasses, quarter of apoundof lemon and citron 
peel, one tablespoonful of mixed essence, one pound of 



310 The Canadian Economist. 

lean beef, minced, mixed fine, half a pound of suet minced 
line. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Mrs. Parr, Ottawa. 

Skin the stalks with care, cut into small pieces, and 
stew till soft, with enough sugar to sweeten to taste. 
While hot, stir in two well-beaten eggs to each pie, and 
bake inopen shells. 

ICED LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Ritchie. 

For two .pics take the grated peel of two lemons and 
juice of two, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, two of 
melted butter, the yolks of four eggs, eight tablespoons- 
f ul of sugaj" ; bake till done. The whites of four eggs, and 
four tablespoonsful of sifted sugar, beat stiff and pour on 
the pies. Bake three minutes. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

Mrs. Smith, Bristol. 

Halfacupfulof butter, half a cupfulof sugar, three-quar- 
tersof acupfulof milk,twoeggs,oneteaspoonfulof soda.two 
of cream of tartar, which mix in the flour, of which put 
in enough to make it like poundcake. This quantity is 
sufficient for tw^o pies. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Mrs. Smith, 

Clean, wash and cut up your chickens. Cook in the 
water enough to stew them well. When the chickens are 
done, put the batter on in .spoonsful, and when ready 
dish all together. Batter — Nearly a quart of sweet milk, 
two eggs, four pounds of butter, three teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, salt the chickens, of course. 



Hovj to Dry Famplin and Make the Fie. 311 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. Stewart, New York. 

Three-quartei-s of a cupful of sugar, the size of an egg of 
butter, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a tea spoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in half a cupful of sweet milk, mix soft, 
beat well, and bake quickly. 

LEMON PfE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Three lemons, four soda biscuits, nine eggs, one quart 
of milk, one cupful of sugar. Grate rind of lemons. 
Strain the juice. Roll the biscuits, add 3-61ks of eggs and 
milk. Add lemon the last thing. Put whites of eggs 
beaten on the top, after pie has been baked. Return to 
the oven for a few minutes to colour slightly. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

One cupful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of milk, two 
eggs, one cupful of tlour, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Baked in vSandwich tins, any kind of preserves between 
the layeis. 

COCOA-NUT PIE. 

Miss Robertson, Thm^old. 

Take the cocoa-nut and grate it, add the milk and two 
eggs, until the mixture is as thick as custard pie. One 
nut makes two pies. 

HOW TO DRY PUMPKIN AND MAKE THE PIE. 

Mrs. Winsloiv. 

Perhaps some don't know the best way to dry the 
pumpkin. It is this : — Cut them up and stew them until 



312 The Canadian Economist. 

they are soft and dry, pound and strain through a colander, 
then grease pie-pans and spread it on a quarter of an inch 
thick and dry it ; roll it up and put away in a tight box 
or bag from insects. Each one of these rolls will make a 
pie. lit is very easy now to make a pie. Put it in 
sweet milk and let it soak about two hours, put in an egg, 
a tablespoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of ginger, and one 
of allspice and if you are lovers of pumpkin-pie as we are 
you will pronounce it good. 

MINCE MEAT. 

' Mrs. Thompson, the Mataiva. 

Ten pounds of meat, eight pounds sugar, six pounds of 
raisins, twenty pounds of apples, two ounces of cinnamon, 
two ounces of allspice, one ounce of cloves, one nutmeg, 
a little salt. First take beef, head and tongue, boil until 
thoroughly cooked. Set away to cool. Then remove all 
meat from the bones and mince very finely, first season 
it with a little salt, then add sugar and spices, have the 
apples minced finely, raisins stoned and minced. Add all 
together and mix well and put away in jars. To ensure 
success wdth this receipt it is necessary to attend parti- 
cularly to the hind of meat as specified. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. J. K. Stewart. 

Two cupsful of brown sugar, one grated lemon, one whole 
egg and yolks of three, one tablespoonful of flour, thin- 
ned with three tablespoonsful of water, two cupsful of cold 
water, a pinch of salt. Beat all well together, then add 
the three whites beaten to a stiflT froth. Stir in lightly. 

GRAPE PIE. 

Guide to Housekeeping. 

Grapes make the best pies when yary tender and 
green. If not very small they should be stewed and 



Ciistard Pie. 3] 3 

strained to get out the seeds before they are made into 
pies, sweeten them to the taste when stewed. They do 
not require any spice. If made into a pie without stow- 
ing, put to each layer of gi-apes a thick layer of sugar, 
and a tablespoonful of water. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Guide to Housekeeping. 

Cranberry pies need very little spice. A little nutmeg 
improves them. They need a great deal of sweetening. 
It is well to stew the seasoning with them at least a part 
of it. It is easy to add if you find them too sour for 
your taste. When cranberries are strained and added to 
their own weight in sugar, they make very delicious tarts. 
No upper crust. 

COMMON MINCE PIES. 

Guide to Housekeeping. 

Boil a piece of lean fresh beef very tender. When 
cold chop it very fine, then take three times the quantity 
of apples, pared and cored and chopjjed fine, mix the 
meat with it and add raisins, allspice, salt, sugar, cinna- 
mon and molasses to suit the taste, stir the articles well 
together and it will improve by standing over night if the 
weather is cool, a very little ginger improves the flavour 
and so does a teacupful of good grape syrup. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Guide to Housekeeping. 

Boil a pint of milk, when nearly cold add three well- 
beaten eggs, in a little essence of lemon, a pinch of salt, 
and sugar to taste. Gi-ate nutmeg over and bake with an 
under crust. 



.SIJ- The Canadian Economist. 

TO MAKE PUFF PASTE. 

Old Goohery Booh. 

For one pound of Hour allow three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, mix in about the fourth part of the butter 
amonf^st the flour, wet it with cold water ; then work it 
until it is very smooth ; cut the paste through with a 
knife. If it is smooth in the heart it is enough kneaded. 
Roll it out long-ways, and put the butter on it in small 
pieces ; then shake some dry flour on it ; fold the two 
ends of it together ; then roll it out a little again and put 
on butter and flour as above, and continue so doing till 
all the butter is taken up. The oftener it is folded the 
more divisions will there be in the paste. Most people 
put eggs in their pufl'ed paste. It does very well when 
it is to be eaten hot, but when used cold, it makes it veiy 
tough and hard, 

PASTE FOR COMMON PIES. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

Very excellent pastry maj^ be made with lard or drip- 
ping, instead of butter or with a mixture of lard and 
dripping. Good beef-fat, or suet melted gently down, and 
poured oft' before it has had time to burn, is very nearly 
as good as anything that can be used for making pastry 
for every-day use. Very palatable pies may be made 
from the dripping from roast beef, veal, pork or mutton, 
though the last-named is thought by some to impart a 
disagreeable flavour of tallow to pastry. The quantity of 
fat used must, of course, be regulated by the expense, and 
it may be remembered that a rich crust is neither so 
digestible nor so suitable for many dishes as a substantial 
light one, and that the lightness of pastry depends ([uite 
as much upon a light, quick, cool hand, as on a large 
amount of butter or lard. The addition of a beaten egg 
or a little lemon-juice to the water, or a teaspoonful of 



Puf Paste. 315 

baking-powder to the flour, will make the paste lighter. 
It should he remembered, however, that, though baking- 
]>owder is excellent for common pastry, that it is to be 
used immediately ; pies are more likely to get dry when 
it Is used. 

PASTE FOR MEAT OR FRUIT PIES. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

Mix the eighth part of a peck of flour with some cream 
and raw eggs. Add half a pound of butter broken in 
pieces, which must not be too small, and roll the paste 
lightly. To make paste for custards, mix the flour with 
boiling water and Vjutter, sugar being abided if necessary. 
If this is done it will be found to increase the stiffness. 

SHORT PASTE FOR TARTS AND FRUIT PIES. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

To one )X)und and a quarter of fine flour add ten ounces 
of fresh butter, the yolks of two beaten eggs, and three 
oimces of sifted loaf-sugar, mix up together with half a 
pint of new milk, and knead it well. This crust is fre- 
quently iced. 

PUFF PASTE. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

Dry and sift the flour and prepare the butter by freeing 
it from salt and moisture. Equal weights of butter and 
flour may be used, or three-quarters of a pound of butter 
to each pound of flour ; put a little salt into the flour and 
make it into a paste by stirring gi*adually into it with a 
knife ; rather less than half a pint of water. Roll it out 
till it is an inch thick. Divide the butter into quarters : 
break one of these quartei-s into small pieces, and sprinkle 
these over the paste. Dredge a little flour over it, and 
turn it over, then repeat the process until all the butter 
is incorporated with the paste. Let the paste rest for ten 



316 The Canadian Economist. 

minutes between each two rolls. Equal parts of lard and 
butter may be used for this paste, and if the yolk of an 
Q^g, or the strained juice of half a lemon be mixed with 
the water in the first instance, the paste will be lighter. 

SUET PASTE FOR BOILED PUDDINGS. 

GasseWs Dictionary. 

Chop very finely six ounces of beef-suet, freed from 
skin and sinew, and while chopping it, keep dredging a 
little fiour over it. Mix with one pound of flour, and add 
as much cold water as will make the mixture up into a 
firm, smooth paste. Roll it out, and it is ready for use. 
If a richer crust be required, a larger proportion of suet 
may be used ; but this is quite good enough for ordinary 
purposes. 

GOOD PLAIN PASTRV. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

Mix a teaspoonful of salt with a pound of flour ; rub in 
lightly six ounces of butter or lard, or half butter and 
half lard, and stir water in briskly with a fork. When 
the mixture is smooth and compact, roll it out two or 
three times, and it is ready for use. 

PASTRY POWDER. 

CasselVs Dictionary. 

Mix thoroughly two ounces of tartaric acid and two 
ounces of carbonate of soda with four ounces of gi-ound 
rice. Roll the mixture with the rolling-pin to free it from 
lumps, and keep it in a closely-stoppered, wide-mouthed 
bottle until wanted. When making common pastry, put 
a teaspoonful of the powder with every pound of flour; 
and in making cakes allow a heaped teaspoonful to every 
pound of material. This powder will render the pastry 
lighter, and also make it more digestible. 



Puf Paste. 317 

RICH CREAM PASTE FOR TARTS. 

CasseU's Dictionary. 

Dry and sift a pound of flour and mix with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of crushed loaf-sugar. 
Rub into it a quarter of a pound of sweet butter, and mix 
gradually with it sufficient cream to make it into a smooth 
paste. If cream cannot be had, two eggs may be beaten 
up with a little milk and substituted for it. Roll 
the paste out two or three times, and use as quickly as 
possible. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Mrs. Johnstone. 

To one pound of sifted Hour add three-quarters of a 
pound of butter. Cut in pieces the size of a walnut. 
Mix together with a knife ; then add cold water, turn out 
and roll. When the butter is well mixed with the flour, 
take a wet towel and roll the paste in, and put in a cold 
place for ten minutes; then take and roll out again, and 
[)ut the paste on buttered plates. Beat one egg, and with 
a brush wet the edge which is to form the crust. Put 
three lay el's of paste. Wet each with the ogg, and bake 
in a quick oven. 




CHAPTER XX. 

PUDDINGS. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

FOR boiled puddings you will require either a mould, a 
basin, or a pudding-cloth. The former should have a 
close fitting cover, and be rubbed over the inside with but- 
ter before putting the pudding in it that it may not stick 
to the side, the cloth should be dipped in boiling water, 
and then well floured on the inside. 

The water must be boiling when the pudding is put in 
and continue to boil until it is done. If a pudding is 
boiled in a cloth it must be moved frequently whilst boil- 
ing, otherwise it will stick to the saucepan. There must 
always be enough water to cover the pudding if it is 
boiled in a cloth ; but if boiled in a tin mould do not let 
the water quite reach the top. 

To boil a pudding in a basin, dip a cloth in hot water, 
dredge it with flour and tie it closely over the basin. 
When the pudding is done, take it from the water, plunge 
whatever it is boiling in, wiiether cloth or basin, suddenly 
into cold water, then turn it out immediately ; this will 
prevent its sticking. If there is any delay in serving the 
pudding cover it with a napkin, or the cloth in which it 
was boiled, but it is better to serve it as soon as removed 
from the cloth, basin or mould. 

PRESERVED GINGER PUDDING. 

Warne's Every-day Cookery. 

Time one hour and a half to steam, half an hour to bake ; 
six ounces of butter, six ounces of flour, a pint and a half 



Queen of Puddings. 319 

of boiling ruilk, six ecrgs, a little sugar, half a pound of 
] >iesers'ed gingei*. 

Stir the butter and flour over a slow fire, have ready a 
pint and a half of boiling milk, and mix it gradually with 
the above over the fire, add the beaten yolks and half a 
pound of preserved ginger, cut up fine, with the syrup 
belonging to it and a little powered sugar ; well whisk the 
whites of the eggs, add them the last thing, place the 
pudding in a mould and let it steam. It is extremely 
good baked in a dish with pufi' paste round it, for half an 
hour in a moderate oven. It may then be served hot or 
cold. Half the quantity is enough for a moderate sized 
jmdding. 

TWENTY-MINUTE PUDDING. 

Mrs. B. Blackbitrn, N&w Edinburgh. 

One Qgg, size of a walnut of butter, one cupful of sour 
cream or milk, one teaspoonful of soda, apples chopped 
fine, sugar and spices to taste, a few spoonslul of water ; 
the batter poured over the fruit and bake twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mrs. Broivn, Ottawa. 

Half a package of gelatine dissolved in a pint of boiling 
water, one cupful of sugar, juice of one lemon ; mix well, 
and set awaj' to cool ; beat to a stiff froth the whites of 
four eggs, and when the jelly begins to thicken, beat all 
together ; when thoroughly mixed pour into a mould, 
serve with rich boiled custard made of the yolks of the 
eggs flavoured with lemon. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

^frs. Blyth. 

Take one pint of fine bread-crumbs, one quart of sugar, 
the yolks of four eggs well beaten, the grated rind of one 



320 The Canadian Economist. 

lemon, a piece of butter the size of an Qgg ; mix together, 
and bake until well done ; now beat the whites of the four 
eggs to a stiff froth, adding a teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar in which has previousl}^ been stirred the juice of 
the lemon ; spread over the pudding a layer of jelly, and 
pour over the whites of the Qgg':^ ; place in the oven until 
lightly browned ; serve with the sauce. 

MOONSHINE PUDDING. 

Miss Bell Blyth. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, two tablespoonsful of 
pulverized sugar, three of corn-starch, one teaspoonful of 
extract of lemon ; let milk come nearly to a boil, stir in the 
corn-starch, previously mixed smooth, with a little cold 
milk, cook three or four minutes ; after boiling add a very 
little salt and the sugar ; take from the fire and add the 
whites of the eggs well beaten, and stir quickly ; add le- 
mon flavouring. Sauce — Beat the yolks of the eggs with 
two tablespoonsful of sugar, bring a cupful of milk to a 
boiling point in a pan of hot water, stir in eggs and sugar 
just before it boils ; let this boil up once or twice, flavour 
with vanilla ; put both pudding and sauce in a cool place, 
or on ice, until cold. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Miss Minna Bain, Perth. 

Peel and cut five oranges into thin slices and between 
each layer of orange, sprinkle sugar and cocoa nut, one 
pint of milk sweetened, flavour with a few drops of vanilla 
or lemon, when scalding hot, add the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten lightly, one tablespoonful of corn-starch, made 
smooth in a little cold mil k, stir this with the beaten egg 
into the milk when it thickens, pour it over the orange ; 
beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, add a tablespoonful 
of sugar, and spread on the top of the pudding ; place for 



Rive FujhJing Without Eggs. 321 

a few minutes into the oven to brown slightly. To be 
eaten cold. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. K. Bronson. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonsful of corn-starch, 
mixed with a little cold milk, yolks of four eggs added to 
the corn-starch, four tablespoonsful of sugar ; put all in the 
milk when boiling, and cook thoroughly ; beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, add four tablespoonsful of 
sugar, and spread over the pudding, and brown lightly ; 
set on ice to cool. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Miss Minna Bain, Perth. 

Half a box of gelatine, half a pint of cold water, let the 
gelatine soak half an hour, then add half a pint of boiling 
water, when cool add the whites of three eggs, two cupsful 
of sugar, the juice of two lemons, beat the whole well for 
half an hour or more, set away to cool in a mould. Make 
a boiled custard of the yolks of the eggs and half a pint 
of milk, sugar to taste, serve with the jelly, floating with 
the custard. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

il/rs. Cantin, Montreal. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of milk, half a cupful 
of butter, two teaspoonsful of soda, one of cream of tartar, 
flavour to taste, one cupful of raisins and sufficient flour to 
make a thick batter. Steam three hours. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Mrs. Cantin, Montreal. 

Half a cupful of rice, one quart of milk, four tablespoons- 
ful of sugar, one dessertspoonful of salt, a piece of butter 
the size of a Walnut, nutmeg and cinnamon to taste, wash 
21 



322 The Canadian Economist. 

and pick over the rice and soak in half a pint of milk for 
two hours, then add the rest of the milk, the sugar, salt, 
butter and spice. Bake two hours in a slow oven, to be 
eaten cold. 

TROY PUDDING. 

Miss Cantin, Montreal. 

One cupful each of raisins, molasses, suet and milk, 
three cupsful and a half of flour,, one teaspoonful of sal- 
eratus, mix the whole together and boil either in a mould 
or pudding cloth for three hours. Serve with sweet sauce. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Miss Durie, Ottawa. 

Place alternately in a buttered mould, slices of buttered 
bread, and layers of sliced apples. For a quart mould, 
use a quarter-pound of sugar, put a slice of bread on the 
top, squeeze over it the juice of one lemon, and steam 
for three-quarters of an hour. This may be eaten either 
hot or cold, with sugar dusted over it, or any sauce that 
is liked. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

Mrs, Crannels, Ottawa. 

One cupful of molasses, two-thirds of a cupful of milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda, a few raisins. The above requires 
a sauce prepared by mixing thoroughly a little butter and 
flour, pour over boiling water and let boil a few minutes, 
sweeten and season with nutmeg. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One pint of boiling milk, two eggs, a tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a cupful of flour ; 
enough Indian meal to make a good batter, stir in two 
teaspoonsful of soda. Bake in a quick oven. 



Lemon Dumplings. 32.9 

RICE MERINGUE PUDDING. 

Mr8. Cruchct, Montreal. 

• 

Boil one cup of rice in one quart of milk, and grate in 
the peel of one lemon, beat the yolks of six eggs into the 
1 ice, and set it into the oven for twenty or thirty minutes, 
then beat the whites to a froth with three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar, pour it on the rice and let it stand in the 
oven ten minutes, not too hot an oven for fear of scorching. 
Flavour with extract of lemon. 

HISS PUDDING. 

Mrs. Cnuihet, Montreal. 

Eight eggs, one quart of milk, eight tablespoonsful of 
sugar, two of flour, two of melted butter, one of lemon ; 
when the milk is boiling, pour on the sour, use the yolks 
of eofors, flour, sugar, and Ijutter well beaten together, when 
it thickens a little take oft" and mix in lemon, and pour 
into the dish with whites of eggs beaten to a froth, stir 
altogether, put in a hot oven and brown the top. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING, 

Mrs. Ct^chet, Montreal. 

One ^uart of boiling milk, two tablespoonsful of corn- 
starch, two of grated chocolate, stir into boiling milk, 
three large tablespoonsful of sugar, a little salt, pour into 
a pudding dish and cool, very nice. 

LEMON DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs. {Col.) Cameron, Kingston. 

Half a pound of grated bread-crumbs, quarter-pound of 

beef-suit, and fine sugar to taste. Three eggs well beaten, 
the rmd of a lemon grated and the juice squeezed in. This 
makes five dumplings. Tie one in the centre of a large 



.'^24 The Canadian Economist. 

cloth and one in each corner. Boil two hours and serve 
with sauce. 

CASTLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. (Col.) Cameron, Kingston. 

Six ounces of butter beaten to a cream, four eggs well 
beaten, six ounces of loaf sugar, six ounces of flour and 
one lemon. Mix all together and bake in patty-pans. 
Serve w' ith sauce. 

CAROLINA RICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. 8. Christie. 

One cupful of milk, three tablespoonsf ul of rice, two of 
sugar, salt, butter, and nutmeg. Bake an hour. Serve 
warm. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

Pare, core, and slice enough apples to nearly fill your 
dish ; make a good light cake batter, and flour; cover the 
apples. Cup cake is a good receipt for the batter. Bake 
an hour. Eat warm with cream. 

SPONGE PUDDINGS. 

t 

Mrs. James Cunningham, Ottawa. 

A very nice plain pudding, should be baked in small 
buttered pots, three eggs, one cupful of milk, one of sugar, 
one spoonful of butter. Beat all together, and bake in a 
quick oven. Serve with sauce. 

• 
STEAMED PUDDING. 

Miss J. K. Ca/rmichaeJ, Bryson. 

One small cupful of butter, one of molasses, one of milk, 
one of currants and raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, one 



Aunt Marys Pudd'uKj. 325 

of cream of tartar, niitmeo' or lemon. St«am three hours. 
Serve with sauce. 

RICE PUDDING (WITH EGGS.) 

Miss Durie, Ottawa. 

Wash a small cofleeeupful of rice, and put it into three 
pints of milk for several houre ; add a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, a small cupful of sugar, a pinch of salt, nut- 
meg and cinnam(;n. Bake very slowly two and a half 
hours. After it has become hot enough to melt the but- 
ter, stir it, without moving the dish, if you can from the 
bottom, adding one cup of raisins. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Dickson, Poiiage Dii Fort. 

Two ([uarts of milk, half a cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of lice, one of raisins, two eggs and cinnamon ; wash the 
nee and put it with the rest of the ingi*edients into the 
milk ; bake for two hours. 

SURPRISE PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Dalgliesh. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of rice, and sweeten it, and 
put a layer in a neat round shape in the centre of a dish, 
on this spread a little strawbeny or raspberiy jam, then 
another layer of rice, and so on until all is used. Make a 
sauce, stir into it a few spoonsful of the same kind of jam 
as used for the pudding; pour it into the dish and serve 
warm. 

AUNT MARYS PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Dalgliesh. 

Butter a tart-dish, sprinkle the bottom with finely 
minced candied peel, and a very little chopped suet, th^n 



326 The Canadian Economist. 

a thin layer of light bread, and so on till the dish is full. 
For a pint dish, make a liquid custard of one egg, half a 
pint of milk, sweeten, pour over the pudding and bake as 
slowly as possible for two hours. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Dalgliesh. 

Butter a pudding-dish, put in a thin layer of light bread 
spread on a very little tinely-shied beef suet and grated 
lemon-peel ; repeat the process until the dish is lightly 
filled ; make a custard of two eggs and half a pir^t of milk, 
for a pint dish, and pour it over the bread by degrees; 
put a paper cap over the pudding and boil it gently for 
an hour. Serve with the following sauce: Mix a table- 
spoonful of flour in cold water, stir it into half a pint of 
boiling water, let it boil a few minutes, sweeten, add the 
juice of a lemon ; half an ounce of butter may, if approved, 
be added ; a little lemon-peel boiled in the water of which 
the sauce is made, or a few drops of lemon flavouring, is 
an improvement. 

FRENCH TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Dalgliesh. 

Take two ounces of tapioca and boil it in half a pint of 
water until it begins to melt, then add half a pint of milk 
by degi-ees, and boil until the tapioca becomes very thick, 
add a well-beaten egg, sugar and flavouring to taste ; bake 
gently for three-quarters of an hour. This preparation of 
tapioca is superior to any other, is nourishing and suitable 
for delicate children. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Quarter-pound of suet, quarter-pound of currants, quarter- 
pound of raisons, quarter-poimd of flour, quarter-pound of 



Steamed Bread F adding. 327 

brffad-crumbs, two tablespoonsful of syrup, half a pint of 
milk. Mince the suet ; mix it with the fruit, flour, bread- 
crumbs, and syrup ; moisten with the milk, beat tho- 
roughly and steam for three hours in a buttered mould. 

GOLDING PUDDING. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Quart«r-pound of bread-crumbs, quarter-pound of suet, 
quarter-pound of marmalade, quarter-pound of sugar, four 
eggs. Mince the suet, mix it with the bread crumbs, the 
maimalade and the sugar. Stir these well together ; beat 
the eggs, moisten the pudding with them, and when well 
mixed, put it into a buttered mould, tie do^vn with a 
floured cloth, and boil it for two houra. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING, WITHOUT EGGS. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Half a pound of flour, six ounces of raisins, six ounces of 
currants, quarter-pound of suet, quarter-pound of sugar, 
quarter-pound of mashed carrots, quarter-pound of mashed 
potatoes, a tablespoonful of syrup, and two ounces of can- 
died peel. Mince the suet, add the flour, carrots, raisins, 
and sugar ; stir in the carrots and potatoes, then the 
syrup and lemon-peel ; put no liquid in the mixture, or it 
will be spoilt Tie loosely in a cloth, as it should have 
room to swell, and boil for four hours. 

STEAMED BREAD PUDDING, DELICIOUS. - 

Mrs. Elliott, Gibelph. 

Butter a basin or powdered dish thickly with a piece 
of nice fresh butter. Into this put six ounces of bread- 
crumbs, a pinch of salt, and one and a-lialf ounces of sugar ; 
pour over one quart of boiling sweet milk, and stand 
until cold, then beat up three eggs and mix all together ; 
grate a little nutmeg on the top, turn, a plate on it upside 



828 The Canadian Economist. 

down, and steam one and a half hour?. Eat with ]e\\y or 
sauce, also, good baked. 

GROUND RICE PUDDING, OR EASTER PIES. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guelph. 

Take one pint of milk, leave out about a teacupf ul. Put 
the rest on to boil with a few .sticks of cinnamon in it. 
Wet half a pound or more of ground rice, according to the 
quality, with a teacupf ul of milk. Take out the cinnamon 
and stir in the rice. Boil until quite thick and soft. Pour 
into a crock, and let stand till nearly cold. Stir in a quar- 
ter-pound of butter, seven ounces of sugar, a little salt, and 
eight well-beaten eggs. This quantity makes two good- 
sized pies. Line the dishes with a rice crust, pour in the 
ingredients, sprinkle a few currants over the top, and 
bake an hour. 

PAN DOWDY. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guelph. 

Peel, core, and quarter some nice cooking apples, cover 
the bottom of a deep pie-dish, then add a little sugar and 
spice, next a layer of bread-crumbs, then some small bits 
of good butter, then a layer of apples, and so on alter- 
nately, until the dish is full, finishing off with the bread- 
crumbs at the top. Pour over all a cup of cold water, and 
bake until the apples are quite soft. 

A SOUFFLE PUDDING. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Take eight iusks or plain buns. Lay them in a large 
deep dish, and pour on a pint of milk sufficient to soak 
them thoroughly. Cover the dish, and let them stand un- 
disturbed for about an hour and a- half before dinner. In 
the meantime, boil half a pint of milk in a small sauce- 
pan, with a handful of bitter almonds or peach kernels, 



Small and Cheap Plum Pudding. 329 

broken small, or a small bunch of fresh peach leaves, w-ith 
two large sticks of cinnamon, broken up. Boil this milk 
slowly fkeeping it covered) and when it tastes strongly 
of the flavoiuing articles, strain it and set it away to cool. 
When cold, mix into another pinit of milk, and stir in a 
quarter-pound of powdered loaf sugar. Beat eight eggs 
ver\' light, and add them giadually to the milk, so as to 
make a rich custard. Beat and stir the soaked rusk very 
hard, till it becomes a smooth mass, and then by degrees 
add to it the custard. Stir the whole till thoroughly amal- 
gamated. Set the dish into a brisk oven, and bake the 
pudding rather more than ten minutes. The yeast in the 
rusk will cause it to puff up very light. Send it to table 
with white sugar sifted over it, or serve with sauce. 

CORNMEAL PUDDING. 

Mrs. Elliott, Guelph. 

One cupful of flour, one cupfal of commeal, one cupful of 
milk, half a cupful of sugar, half acupful of raisins, one ounce 
of candied peel, half acupful of molasses, half acupful of sour 
cream, or butter milk, half a teaspoonful of soda. Steam 
three hours, and serve with .sauce. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Mrs. George Elliott, Ottauu. 

One and a half cupsful of flcur, one cupful of sugar, one 
cupful of suet, one cupful of raisins, one cupful of currants, 
one cupful of potatoes grated, one cupful of can-ots grated, 
one teaspoonful of soda ; steam or boil three houi-s. 

SMALL AND CHEAP PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. George Elliott, Ottaiva. 

One cupful of suet, one cupfid of raisins, one cupful of 
currants, one cupful of molasses, one Q^g^ four cupsful of 
flour, one cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 



330 The Canadian Economist. 

spoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon ; Itoil or 
steam three hours. 

APPLR SAGO PUDDING. 

Mrs. John M. Garland. 

One quart of boiling water, one cupful of sago, three sour 
apples, slice them, and the inside of one lemon, also, slice 
thin. Bake slowly in a covered pudding dish till it looks 
like a clear jelly, and eat with cream. 

GOLDEN PUDDING. 

Mrs. {Hon.) Grant, Pictoa, N.S. 

One quarter-pound of bread-crumbs, one quarter-pound 
of beef suet, one quarter-pound of sugar, one quarter- 
pound of marmalade, four eggs, a little salt, one gill of 
milk. Beat the eggs well and mince the suet fine, add all 
together and steam in a greased mould two hours. 

GELATINE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Horsey, Ottawa. 

Half a large box of gelatine, dissolved in a large half 
pint of boiling water, when cold stir in the juice of three 
lemons, two teaspoonsful of white sugar, the whites of four 
eggs beaten separately to a stiff froth, with the yolks of 
the four eggs and a quart of milk. Make a custard and 
flavour with vanilla or lemon. When cold serve with the 
jelly ; frost the pudding ^ith icing. 

BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

Miss Hopkirk, Ottatva. 

One pound of pulped apples, one quarter-pound of sugar, 
one quarter-pound of butter, one quarter-pound of bread- 
crumbs, four yolks and one white of egg, the juice and 
peel of one lemon. Bake three-quarters of an hour, and 
twrn out on a dish, 



Eiee Pudding. 331 

LEMON SUET PUDDING. 

Miss Hopkirk, Ottaiva. 

One quarter-pound of siiet, one quarter-pound of bread- 
crumbs, two egofs and the iuiee and rind of one lemon. 

HALF-PAY PUDDING 

Miss Hopkirk, Ottawa. 

Four ounces of suet, four ounces of flour, cuirants, rai- 
sins and bread-crumbs, two tablespoonsful of treacle, half 
a pint of milk. Mix well and boil three hours ; serve with 
sauce. 

OLD ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING, 

Miss [lopkirk, Ottaiva. 

One pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one pound 
of suet, one quarter-pound of flour or bread-crumbs, three 
ounces of sugar, one half -ounce of grated lemon peel, a 
blade of mace, half a nutmeg, a teaspoonful of ginger, six 
eggs, work well, tie in a cloth with room to swell. Boil 
five hours. 

AMBER PUDDING. 

Miss Hopkirk, Ottaiva. 

One quarter-pound of suet, one quarter-pound of bread- 
crumbs, four eggs beaten up well, sugar to taste, candied 
lemon and orange. Shape buttered crumbed. 

RICE PUDDING (WITHOUT EGGS). 

31 rs. Hardie. 

One cupful of rice well washed, a half cupful or more 
»f sugar, three pints of milk or milk and water, a table- 
spoonful of butter, a little salt, and extract of lemon. Pu^ 
all in a pudding dish and bake an hour and a half ; eat 
either with cream ov fruit, 



332 The Canadian Economist. 

A NICE RICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Kennedy, Owen Sound. 

A cupful of rice boiled in water, add one pint of milk and 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, one cupful of sugar, 
yolks of four eggs and the rind of one lemon grated. Mix 
and bake half an hour or until done. Then beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth ; stir in half a pint o*^ sugar 
and juice of one lemon, after the pudding cools a little, 
pour this over and brown in the oven; very nice to eat cold. 
It will keep several days ; if necessary, add more milk 
when making the pudding. 

BARONESS PUDDING. 

Mrs. Leslie, Ottaua. 

Ingredients, three-quarters of a pound of suet, three- 
quarters of a pound of raisins, three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, half a pint of milk, quarter spoonful of salt. Pre- 
pare the suet very carefully, freeing it from skin and chop 
it finely. Stone the raisins and cut in halves, mix both 
these ingredients with the salt and flour, moisten the 
whole with the above proportion of milk, stir well and tie 
in a floured cloth previously wrung out of boiling water. 
Put into a saucepan of boiling water and boil without 
ceasing four and a half hours. Sufficient for seven or 
eight persons. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. F. Lesslie, Kingston. 

Two ounces of sifted flour, two ounces of white granu- 
lated sugar, butter, the size of a walnut, four eggs, one 
pint of milk. Beat yolks and sugar in pudding. Reserve 
^a little of the milk to blend the- flour with, put the re- 
mainder on to boil. When it comes to the boil add flour 
and butter. Let the mixture boil a minute or two, then 
pour this into it with the yolks stirring briskly, yet gently 



Mountain-Dew Piiddin(j. 333 

and thoroughly. Bake brown for a quarter of an hour, 
in a quick oven, and serve at once. Do not remove from 
oven till moment of serving. 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING. 

Mrs. Laird, Bristol. 

Three cupsful of flour, one cupful of suet, one cupful 
of milk, one cupful of molasses, one of raisins, stoned and 
chopped, half a cupful of currants, one and a half tea- 
spoonsful of soda, a little salt and one tablespoon ful of 
lemon essence. Boil three hours. 

GIPSY PUDDING. 

Miss Helen IT. Lesslie, Kingston. 

Cut stale sponge cake into thin slices ; spread with jelly 
or preserve ; put together like sandwiches and lay in a 
dish. Pour hot custard. When cold, spread jelly or pre- 
serve over the top, and over that an ice formed of four 
eggs, beaten to a stifl' froth with four tablespoonsful of 
white sugar. Put into the oven and bake to a very light 
brown. 

SNOW-BALL PUDDING. 

Miss Sarah Lanahan. 

Boil a coffeecupful of rice with sugar and salt to 
taste, until well-done. Pour into six teacups and put in 
a cool place. When quite cold turn out on a platter, put 
a teaspoonful of jelly on the top and serve with boiled 
custard poured around, not over them. 

MOUNTAIN-DEW PUDDING. 

Miss McKinnon, Gloucester Street. 

Three crackers rolled fine, a pint of milk, yolks of three 
eggs. Bake half an hour. Beat the whites of the eggs 



334 The Canadian Economist . 

to a stiff froth, add one cupful of sugar and a pinch of 
salt. Flavour with lemon, pour over the pudding. Set 
in the oven till delicately browned. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Mrs. McTaggavt, Neiv Edinburgh. 

Half a cupful of suet (chopped line), half a cupful of 
sugar, one cupful of Hour, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, two eggs, spice to taste, one cupful of fruit, nearly 
half a cupful of milk. Steam for three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve with sauce. 

STEAK PUDDING. 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte. 

Make a good crust for the flour and suet, shred fine, 
mix with cold water and a little salt. Make it pretty 
stiff. Take either beef or mutton steaks. Season them 
well with pepper and salt. Make it up as you would an 
apple pudding. Tie it in a cloth and pop it into boiling 
water. Boil three hours ; five hours for a large one. 

TREACLE PUDDING. 

3Irs. Thos. McKay. 

Three tablespoonsful of treacle, one tablespoonful of 
flour and a little ground ginger ; mix all together, line a 
basin with paste, spread some of the mixture on with a 
spoon, then put a layer of paste with the mixture spread 
over, until the basin is full. Either baked or boiled is 
very good. 

BOILED CURD PUDDING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Kub the curd of two quarts of milk well drained through 
a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little cream, two spoons- 
ful of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg, flour and 



To Make Fatter for Fruit Puddings. 335 

crumbs of bread, each three spoonsful, currants and rai- 
sins half a pound each. Boil an hour in a thick well- 
iioured clotli. A very delicate species of curd can be 
made by mixing a pint of very sour buttermilk with two 
quarts of new milk. 

LOTUS PUDDING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Half a pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of best figs, 
six ounces of suet, six ounces of brown sugar ; mince the 
figs and suet very nicely, a little salt, two eggs well- 
beaten, nutmeg to your taste ; boil in a mould four hours. 

FRUIT IN BATTER. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Fiuit sliced into batter makes an excellent economical 
pudding, and is considered much more digestible than 
when put into paste, A little of the batter should be 
put into the dish, and if apples are used they should be 
pared carefully. 

TO MAKE BATTER FOR FRUIT PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Put half pound of flour, and a saltspoonf ul of salt into 
a pan and stir in gently half a pint of milk ; if mixed 
carelessly they will remain in lumps ; beat up the whites 
of four eggs, strain them to the batter and beat it well 
with a spoon. The whites should be beaten separately, 
to a solid froth, and not added till just before the batter 
is used. For fruit, the batter should be rather thicker 
than when plain, to prevent the fruit sinking to the bot- 
tom of the dish or basin. As it is equally good, baked or 
boiled, it must brought to a proper consistency by adding 
milk. 



'MC) The Canadian Economist. 

BAKED GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth or in a 
saucepan of water till they will pulp. Take a pint of the 
juice, pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with three 
yolks and whites of eggs, beaten and steamed with one 
and a half ounces of butter, sweeten it well and put a crust 
round the dish ; a few bread-crumbs should be mixed 
with the above to give a little consistency. Raspberries 
and currants may be used instead of gooseberries, and are 
equally good. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Boil a large carrot till tender, bruise and mix it with 
spoonful of bread crumbs, four yolks and two whites of 
eggs, a pint of cream, a ratifia, a large spoonful of orange- 
flower water, half a nutmeg, two ounces of loaf sugar ; 
bake in a shallow dish lined with paste, and when it is 
turned out strew sugar over it. 

BAKED SPONGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. McElroy, Richmond. 

Three eggs, six ounces of white sugar, six ounces of 
butter, half a cupful of sweet milk, three-quarters of a 
pound of flour, .three tea-spoonsful of baking powder. 
Use cream, custard, or any other sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLING. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

The apple should be pared, the core scooped, and the 
centre filled up with spice and sugar according to the tart' 
ness of the apple. The paste should not be rolled out, 
but a lump taken of the right quantity, the apple placed 



Workman's Pudding. 337 

upon it, and the paste carefully pressed round it, bringing 
it to a shape which is easily closed, so as to keep in the 
juice and butter. They have a pretty effect if boiled in 
nets instead of cloths. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. B. McA rthur, Carleton Place: 

Eight ounces of bread-crumbs, six ounces of beef-suet, 
one teacup of warm milk, two eggs well beaten, four 
ounces of figs, four ounces of sugar ; mix the figs very 
fine, put into the milk, let them stand on the front of the 
stove until the figs are soft, mix in the other ingi-edieuts, 
put in a buttered bowd and steam four hours. To be 
eaten with sweet sauce. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Mrs. McNoAihtan, Cohourg. 

Twocupsful of prepared flour, three tablespoonsful of but- 
ter creamed with the sugar, five eggs, one cupful of sugar, 
half apound of raisins seeded andcut in pieces, half a cupful 
of milk, half a lemon, juice and grated peel ; add the beaten 
yolks to the creamed sugar, then the milk and fiour al- 
ternately, with the whites ; lastly, stir in the fruit dredged 
with flour, pour into a buttered mould and boil an hour 
and a half — or steam. Eat hot with liquid sauce. 

workman's pudding. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

Half a pint of mola.sses, half a pint of boiling water, one 
teaspoonful of soda and a little salt ; add enough flour to 
make as stiff as sponge cake. If you wish to turn this 
into Foreman's or Boss's pudding, you can add a cupful of 
chopped raisins, and the same of minced suet ; steam for 
two or three hours, and serve with cream or sugar, 

99 



338 The Canadian Economist. 

QUAKING PUDDING. 

Mrs. Maxivell. 

Boil a quart of cream and let it stand till it is almost 
cold, then beat four eggs a quarter of an liour, with a 
spoonful and a half of flour ; then mix them with the 
cream and add sugar and nutmeg ; tie it up in a cloth well 
buttered. Let it boil an hour and turn out. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 

This pudding is to go under baked meat. Beat four 
eggs with four large spoonsful of fine flour and a.' little 
salt, for a quarter of an hour, mix well with them three 
pints of milk, then butter a drip-pan and set it under beef, 
mutton, or a loin of veal when it is roasting ; and when it 
is brown cut it in square pieces and turn it over ; brown 
well on the under side. Send to table on a dish. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Mrs. {Rev.) J. McEwen, lagersoll, Out. 

One cupful of grated carrot, one of grated potato, 
one of beef- suet very finely shred, one of molasses, one of 
flour, one of bread-crumbs, one of raisins, stoned, one of 
currants, two ounces of candied peel, spice to taste, half 
a teacupful of sweet milk, in which dissolve one small tea- 
spoonful of soda. Steam two and a half hours and serve 
with sweet sauce. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Miss McTavish, Osgoode. 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of sour milk, one 
teaspoon? ul of soda, a little salt, currants and raisins, one 
cupful of each, flour. Beat the eggs and stir in the sugar. 
Dissolve the soda in the milk, and mix also the fruit and 



Christmas Plum PikUI'viuj. 339 

the salt. Then thicken with flour, rather thicker than for 
cake, tie in a cloth, allowing room for swelling. Set in a 
steamer and steam for an hour and a half, 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Miss McTavish, Osgoode. 

Half a pound of suet, one pound of flour, half a pound of 
currants, half a pound of stoned raisins, two eggs, one nut- 
meg, one teaspoonf ul of cinnamon, half of cloves, one of salt, 
one and a half eupsful of milk (citron optional) spread the 
suet and rub through the flour, then mix in the fruit. 
Beat the eggs tlioroughly, add the milk to the suet and 
flour, then the eggs and fruit. Dip the pudding-bag into 
cold water, turn it wrong side out and flour well. Turn 
the batter in and leave room for the pudding to swell. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Apples pared, cored and sliced, placed in alternate 
layers with stale bread-crumbs, very fine ; add a lit- 
tle water, mix a few fine crumbs, with butter for the top. 
Bake. Eat it with a hard sauce. 

MAZY PUDDING. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Half a pound of bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter, 
three ounces of sugar ; pour over one pint of boiling milk. 
Cover till coM. Beat three eggs well, flavour, bake half 
an hour. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

Miss M., Kingston, 

One "pound of suet cut not too fine, one pound of raisins, 
one ]iOund of currants, half a pound of flour, half a pound 
of bread-crumbs, one pint of milk, four eggs, half a nut- 



340 The Canadian Economist. 

meg, one ounce of citron and lemon-peel, one teaspoonful 
ginger. Use as much of the milk as will mix it together, 
very thiclj;. Boil five hours at least. 

A DELICATE PUDDING. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

The yolks of five eggs beaten very well, half a pound 
of sugar, half a pint of milk, a slice of butter warmed in 
the milk, a tablespoonful of flour. Bake in large cups. 
Turn out and pour over them a sauce made of one 
glassful of cider or molasses, a little loaf sugar and -pielted 
butter. ^ 

STEAMED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Mrs. {Rev.) J. McAlister, Ashton 

One pound of suet, one pound of flour, a heaping tea- 
spoonful of salt. Chop the suet in a little of the flour to 
prevent its caking. Chop very fine, as fine as meat ; then 
add cold water enough to make a paste. Roll as thin as 
pie-crust ; peel a dozen of large apples ; quarter and core 
them, keeping each apple by itself. Place the quarters 
together again and cover each of them with a square of 
the paste ; place in a buttered plate and cook in a steamer 
for an hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

BOILED INDIAN CORN. 

Mrs. Phillip Monson, Ottaiva. 

Two eggs, one quart of sweet milk, quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of soda; stir in meal to make a thick latter. 
Put in a linen bas: and boil six hours. Serve with sauce. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. Parr, Ottawa. 

One and ahalf cupsful of white sugar, two cupsful of fine 
dry bread-crumbs, five eggs, one tablespoonful of butter va- 



French Piulding. 341 

nilla, rose-water, or lemon flavouring ; one quart of fresh 
rich milk and half a cupful of jam. Rub the butter into 
a cupful of sugar ; beat the yolks very light and stir 
these together to a cream. The bread-crumbs soaked in 
milk come next. 

POOR man's pudding. 

Mrs. J. M. Macalister, Asliton. 

Three teacupsful of flour, one of rnilk, one of chopped 
raisins, one of suet, one of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
saleratu^. nutmeof. Put in a ))a<j: and boil an hour and a 
half Serve with sauce. 

FEATHER PUDDING. 

Mrs. Pevley, Ottawa. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoonsful of corn-starch. 
Mix the batter in a little cold milk and add to the other 
when boiling. When it has thickened add the whites of 
four eggs well beaten, a pinch of salt and put in a mould, 
make a boiled custard with the yolks of the eggs and one 
pint of milk. Sweeten and pour over the other, when 
taken from the mould. 

FRENCH PUDDIXG. 

Mrs. Ross, O.L.C., Ottawa. 

One quart of milk, three teaspoonsful of corn-starch, 
wet with cold milk, one cupful of powdered sugar, one 
cupful of strawberry-jam, six eggs, beaten very lightl3^ 
Mode : Boil the milk and stir in the corn-starch ; stir one 
minute. Pour into a bowl containing the beaten yolks, 
the whites of two eggs, and half the sugar, whip for 
two or- 4;hree minutes and put into a buttered baking- 
dish, set in a pan of boiling water, and bake half an hour, 
or until firm. Just before withdrawing it from the oven, 
cover with jelly or jam, and this with a meringue made of 



342 The Canadian Economist. 

the reserved whites and sugar. Set in the oven till the 
meringue is slightly coloured. Eat cold with cream. 

PUDDING. 

M iss Robertson, Tliorold. 

Half a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of beef- 
suet, half a pound of brown sugar, three lemons, grated, 
three eggs. Boil two hours. Serve hot with sauce. 

BROWN PUDDING. 

Mis8 Robertson, Thorold. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of water, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one of clones, one of allspice, one of 
soda ; lastly, thicken these ingredients to a good stiff 
batter, and boil for three hours. 

MINCE MEAT. 

.^ Miss Robertson, Thorold. 

One beef's tongue boiled tender, three pounds of suet 
chopped fine, six pounds of raisins, six pounds of currants, 
half a pound of lemon, and half a pound of orange-peel, 
half an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of cloves, one 
and a half teaspoonful of mace, two nutmegs, a quantity 
of apples. Sweet cider or molasses will preserve it. 

bird's-nest pudding. 
Miss RobeHson, Thorold. 

Peel and core as many apples as will stand in a dish, 
and fill the holes with sugar. Make a custard with two 
or three eggs, and mix with sugar; pour it over the 
apples, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake an 
hour. 



A unt Nellies Pudding. 343 

CANADIAN PUDDING. 

Mi^8 Robertson, Thorold. 

Four ounces each of flour, suet, currants, raisins, and 
bread-crumbs, two tablespoonsful of treacle, and half a 
pint of milk. Mix all well together and boil in a mould 
three houis. Serve with sauce accordingf to taste. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

One pint of flour, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
milk, one-quarter cupful of butter, and two eggs. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. 

COUNTRY PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Three tablespoonsful of flour, three eggs, milk to make 
it the consistency of cream. Before serving it, cut the 
top quickly in cross-bars and pour preserves over it. 

DELICIOUS PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Six ounces of sugar, butter, flour, cuiTants and raisins, 
four eggs. Steam two houi-s. 

AUNT Nellie's pudding. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of suet, half a pound 
of treacle, the rind and juice of one lemon, a few strips 
of candied lemon-peel, three tablespoonsful of cream, two 
eggs. Chop the suet fine, mix with it the flour, treacle, 
lemon-rind minced, and candied peel, add the cream, lemon- 
juice and two well-beaten eggs ; beat the pudding well, 



344 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

put it into a floure(i cloth, and boil three and a-half to 
four hours. 

ROLL PUDDING, 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Make a paste of one pound of flour, a quarter pound of 
suet, a little salt, water to wet, spread preserves over it, 
and roll up. Put in a cloth or bowl, and steatia one and 
a half hour. ^ 

MAIZE PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Two cupsful of cold boiled hominy, add three cupsful 
of chopped apple, juice of two small lemons, one-third 
cupful of sugar, two-thirds cupful of Zante currants. Mix 
thoroughly. Bake one hour or more in an ordinary oven 
till of a light-brown colour, and serve cold. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING (gOOD). 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottaiva. 

Make a batter of five 'eggs and a pint of milk ; add a 
little salt before the eggs are put in. Have several slices 
of bread about as thick as for toasting, and spread butter 
thickly on them. Butter a pudding-dish, put in a layer 
of bread and butter, then raisins and currants, and an- 
other layer of bread and butter, until the dish is three- 
quarters full. Flavour with nutmeg. Pour over and bake. 

POOR man's plum PUDDING. 

Mrs. Story, Ottawa. 

One cupful of currants, one cupful of raisins chopped fine, 
one cupful of suet, two cupsful of Hour, three tablespoonsful 
of molasses, a small teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of ginger, and spices to taste, wet 



Plain Plum P lidding. JJiS 

with cnouo^h water or milk to make a stiff batter. Put in 
a mould and st^am for two or two and a half houre. 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING. 

Mrs. Smith. 

Three eupsful of flour, one cupful of suet chopped finely, 

one cupful of milk, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of 

. raisins, half a cupful of currants, one and a half spoonsful 

of §oda, three of cream of tartar, a little salt. Boil three 

hours. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Miss Annie Shaiv, Ottawa. 

Four eggs, the same weight each of flour, brown sugar 
and butter, a few raisins, stoned and dredged w^ith flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, grated peel of a lemon ; 
whip the sugar and butter to a cream, add the eggs 
(thoroughly beaten), then the lemon-peel and thf^ flour, 
with the baking powder well mixed through it, and lastly 
the raisins ; beat the whole well and quickly together and 
pour it into a buttered bowl and put in the steamer im- 
mediately. Steam for two hours and be sure to keep it 
covered tightly and the water constantly boiling. Sweet 
sauce. 

This pudding is very nice with Indian-meal instead of 
flour and steamed a little longer. 

PLAIN PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Stewart, New York. 

One bowl of bread soaked in water, drain the water 
ofi" and squeeze until dry, then add the following : one cup 
of molasses, one teaspoonful of soda mixed in the molasses, 
one small pinch of salt, one scant cup of milk, four eggs 
well beaten, one tablespoonful of ginger.one apple chopped, 
quarter teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon.. 



34(5 The Canadian Economist. 

one teaspoonful of ginger, half a nutmeg, one bowl of 
chopped suet, one bowl of currants, one of raisins, lemon- 
peel at your pleasure. Steam or boil for four or five 
hours. 

CUP PUDDING, 

Miss Thomson, Renfrew. / 

Three eggs, three-quarters of a cupful of sugar, three- 
quarters of a cupful of milk, three-quarters of a cupful of 
riour, half a cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda ; 
butter the cups, pour in a little preserves, then half fill 
with batter, steam twenty minutes. Serve with hot sauce. 

BREAD PUDDTNCr. 

Miss Thomson, Renfreiv. 

One pint of stale bread, one quart of milk, the yolks of 
four eggs beaten, a small cupful of white sugar, the grated, 
rind of a lemon, and a piece of butter the size of an egg ; 
mix all well together, bake when cool ; spread it well 
with jelly ; beat the whites of the eggs very stiff with 
five spoonsful of white sugar, with the juice of a lemon, 
pour over the toj) of the pudding, put in the oven to 
stiffen. 

HARD TIMES PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Half a pint of syrup, half a pint of water, two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, one teaspoonful of salt, raisins 
to suit taste, thicken with flour as for pound cake, fill the 
pudding mould half full to allow for swelling and boil 
for three hours. 

APPLE DUMPLING. 

Miss Thompson, Renfrew. 

One pound of suet, one pound of flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt,chop the suet fine, mince and add cold water to make 



Queen of Puddings. 347 

a paste, roll thicker than iov pie crust, peel a few large 
apples, quarter and slice them, divide the paste in two, 
enclose the apples in each piece, season with nutmeg or 
cloves, then roll up in a iioured or wet cloth, tie with cord, 
boil for two hours : serve with melted butter, a little water 
and sugar mixed and boiled, and flavoured with nutmeg. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Thomison. 

Half a box of gelatine, one pint of boiling water, two 
cupsfnl of sugar, juice of a lemon, melt it, whites of three 
eggs beaten to a froth and mixed, pour into a mould ; the 
yolks and a teaspoonful of corn-starch and milk to make a 
custard, to be served up with the pudding. 

bird's-nest pudding. 

Mvs. W. Taylor. 

Make a batter with one cupful of milk, one cupful of 
sugar, quarter of a cupful of butter, one ^^g, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, half a one of soda, two cupsful of 
flour ; put some apples, cut for pie, into a buttered dish, 
pour the batter over and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

bread pudding. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

Slice the bread and spread with butter, line a well but- 
tered dish with them, fill in with apples and cover with 
the bread buttered on both sides, bake until brown. Serve 
with creani and sugar. 

QUEEN OF puddings. 

Mrs. {Rev) D. Wardrope, Teesvjater. 

Six ounces of any kind of cake broken small, fruit cake 
is the nicest, four eggs, keep out the white of one, four 



348 ' Tlie Canadian Economist. 

ounces of sugar, a quart of milk, one ounce of butter, and 
the grated rind of a lemon. Mix all together and bake. 
When done beat the white of the egg kept out with two 
ounces of sugar. Spread this over the top of the pudding 
for a few minutes to brown slightly. ^ 

SUET PUDDING. 

" Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Three cupsful of flour, two teaspoonsf ul of baking pow- 
der, half a teaspoonful of salt, add one cupful of suet chop- 
ped fine, one cupful of fruit, fresh or preserved, two-thirds 
of a cupful of sugar, milk to make a stiff batter. Steam 
one hour and a half To be eaten with rich sauce. 

APPLE AND RICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Fa. 

One teacupful of rice boiled very soft, a little salt and 
butter, five apples cut fine in the bottom of a pudding 
dish. Put rice over the top, and boil three-quarters of an 
hour. Half a cupful of cream on the rice improves it. 
Serve with sauce. 

BERRY OR FRUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One quart of flour, half a teaspoonful of soda, two of 
baking powder, mix,, and rub in two large tablespoonsful 
of shortening, form soft dough, with milk or water. Roll 
out thin, and spread with any kind of berries or fruit. 
Roll it up in a cloth, and place in a steamer. To be eaten 
with lemon sauce. 

PARADISE PUDDING." 

Mrs. James Young, Gait. 

Ingredients — six Qggv, six apples, six ounces of bread- 
crumbs, six ounces of sugar, one glassful of sweet cider or 



Eves Pudding. 349 

molasses, peel of half a lemon cut thin, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, one grating of nutmeg. Mode — Peel and mince 
the apples, and mix with the sugar and bread-crumbs, 
lemon peel, salt, and nutmegs, beat the eggs and add them. 
Stir in the cider or molasses. Boil in a well-buttered 
mould for three hours, and serve with sauce. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Young, Gait. 

One cupful of grated carrots, one of gi-ated potatoes, one 
of bread-crumbs, one of currants, one of suet, half of sugar, 
half of flour, a little salt, and a little milk. Boil the same 
as plum pudding, which it greatly resembles. 

FRUIT SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. Rciy, Ottawa. 

One cupful of sweet milk, half a cupful of molasses, half 
of butter or suet, two-thirds of raisins, two-thirds of cur- 
rants, one teaspoonful of soda, one of cloves. Flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. Steam two and a-half 
hours. 

CHEESE PUDDING. 

Mrs. (Hon.) McFarlane, Picton. 

Two ounces of bread-crumbs, boiled in half a pint of 
milk, when cold add a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, 
fwo ounces of butter, yolks and whites of two eggs, beaten 
separately. Season -with mustard, pepper, and salt. Bake 
three-quartei-s of an hour. 

eve's puddng. 

Miss Young. 

The bowl to be first rubbed with butter, then a layer of 
suet, and one of bread-crumbs, and one of apples ; then 



350 The Canadian Economist. 

suet again, and so on, as before, till the bowl is full. Grate 
the rind of a lemon and mix with the bread-crumb;^. Beat 
up two eggs with a little rnilk, the juice of a lenlon, and 
sugar. Pour over the whole. Either to be baked or 
steamed. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Chop half a pound of figs very finely, mix them with 
a quarter of a ])ound of coarse sugar, a tablespoonful of 
treacle, four tablespoonsful of milk, half a pound of Hour, 
a quarter of a pound of suet, an egg, and a pinch of grat- 
ed nutmeg. Put the pudding into a buttered mould, and 
boil for four or five hours. 

OATMEAL PUDDING. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Mix two ounces of fine Scotch oatmeal in a quarter of 
a pint of milk ; add to it a pint of boiling milk, sweeten 
to taste, and stir over the fire for ten minutes, then put in 
two ounces of sifted bread-crumbs, stir until the mixture 
is stifi", then add one ounce of shred suet, and one or two 
well-beaten eggs ; add a little flavouring or grated nut- 
meg. Put the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake 
for one hour. 

LAYER PUDDING. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

Make a crust as for fruit pudding. Roll it out and line 
a buttered basin with it. Lay at the bottom a layer of 
jam or treacle, and so on until the basin is full. Boil an 
hour and a half. 




CHAPTER XXI. 

FRIED CREAM, BATTER PUDDINGS, FRITTERS 
AXD DOUGH-NUTS. 

OKCHARD BEACH DOUGH-NUTS. 

Mrs. Alexander, Neiv Edinburgh. 

^riWO cupsful of sugar, four eggs, salt to taste, two 
1 large spootisful of lard, two cupsful of milk, two 
teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one of soda, only just 
flour enough to roll out easily. Mix the cream of tartar 
with the flour, flavour with nutmeg and fry with hot 
lard. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Miss Mary Brouyh, Ottawa. 

One pint of milk (must be morning's) four eggs, four 
tablespoonsf ul of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder 
Put your flour in a basin, mix in the baking powder, then 
add the milk slowly, so as to have no lumps, and lastly, 
the eggs after beating them well. Boil in a well-floured 
cloth three-quartej's of an hour. Serve with sauce. 

LEMON PUFFS, 

Miss Maggie Buntdh, Bradford, Pa. 

Half a pound of gi-anulated sugar, the grated rind of 
one lemon, the froth of one egg, drop with a teaspoon on 
buttered paper. Bake in the top of a quick oven. 



352 The Canadian Economist, 

FRITTERS. 

Mrs. A. Baldwin, Ottaiva. \ 

One pint of sour milk, three tablespoonsful of shorten- 
ing, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt and 
flour enough to make a stiff batter. Fry in lard same as 
dough-nuts. Dip the spoon in the lard and the dough 
will not stick. This makes a nice dish for tea, eaten with 
maple syrup or with melted sugar. 

STEAMED BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs, Brechon, Ottaiva. 

One cupful of sour milk, three eggs, half a cupful of 
butter, two teaspoonsful of baking powder. Flour enough 
to make a thick batter. Steam for an hour or more, 
serve with sugar sauce. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Mrs. Grannell, Ottaiva. 

Two cupsful of cold mashed potatoes, with two table- 
spoonsful of melted butter which has been beaten to a 
cream. Add two well-beaten ^g^^ and one cupful of 
cream or milk. Pour into a deep dish aad bake in a quick 
oven. 

CRULLERS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

One cupful of sugar, one of buttermilk, three table- 
spoonsful of melted butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda. Mix as soft as possible. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

• Beat very stiff the whites of three eggs, and then beat 
jn gradually half a pound of powdered loaf sugar. Scrape 



Fritters of Cake and PadcliiKj. 353 

down very tine three ounces of the best chocolate, pre- 
pared cocoa is better still, and dredge it with flour to 
prevent its oiling. Mixing the flour well among it. 
Then add it gradually to the mixture of white of egg and 
sugar and stir the whole very hard. Cover the bottom 
of a square tin pan with a sheet of fine white paper, cut 
to fit exactly. Place upon it thin spots of powdered loaf 
sugar about the size of half a dollar. Pile a portion of 
the mixture, on each spot, smoothing it with the back of 
a spoon, or a broad knife dipped in cold water: Sift 
white sugar over the top of each. 

COCOA-NUT PUFFS. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

Break up a large ripe cocoa-nut. Pare the pieces and 
lay them awhile in cold water. Then wipe them dry and 
grate them as finely as possible. Lay the gi-ated cocoa-nut 
in well formed heai)s on a large handsome dish. It will 
require no cooking. The heaps should be about the cir- 
cumference of a half crown, and must not touch each 
other. Flatten them down in the middle as to make a 
hollow in the centre of each heap, and upon this pile some 
very nice sweetmeat. Make an excellent whipped cream 
well seasoned and flavoured with lemon and beat it to a 
stift* froth. Pile some of this cream high upon each cake 
over the sweetmeats, if on a supper table you may arrange 
them in circles round a glass stand. 

FRIITFRS OF CAKE AND PUDDING. 

jy/.-i'J Elliott, GvAph. 

Cut plain pound or rich cake into small square slices 
half an inch thick, ti'im away the crust, fry them slowly 
a light brown in a small quantity of fresh butter, and 
spread over them ; when done, a layer of apricot jam, or 
of any other preserve, and serve them immediately. These 



')")4 Tlie Canadian Economist. \ 

fritters are improved by being moistened with a little 
good cream before they are fried, they must then be 
slightly floured. Cold plum-pudding sliced down as 
thick as the cake, and divided into portions of equal size 
and good form, then dipped into batter, and gently fried, 
will also make an agreeable variety of fritter. 

MINCE MEAT FRITTERS. 

Miss Elliott, Guelph. 

With half a pound of mince meat mix two ounces of 
fine bread-crumbs (or a tablespoonful of flour), two eggs 
well beaten and the strained juice of half a small lemon; 
mix these well and drop the fritters with a dessertspoon 
into plenty of very pure lard, fry them from seven to 
eight minutes, drain them on a napkin, and send them 
veiy hot to table. They should be quite small. 

TO MAKE CRULLERS. 

Mrs. J. H. P. Gibson. 

One pint of milk, half a pound of sugar, three eggs, two 
tablespoonsf ul of melted butter, half a nutmeg grated into 
the milk and eggs, two teaspoonsful of National Baking 
Povjder to each pound of flour, and mixed with the flour. 
Mode: Stir milk, sugar and eggs together, with some 
flour; add the melted butter, after which stir in the rest 
of the flour, making a soft dough ; cut the dough-nuts into 
small pieces, roll into strips and twist together ; place 
them into a dish of boiling lard, and turn until browned 
nicely. These, when placed before an epicure, will cause 
him to smack his lips with delight. 

PUFFS. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston. 

Two cupsful of flour, one cupful of milk, not quite one 
cupful of water. The irons you bake in must be very hot 
before you put in the batter. Butter the irons well. 



To Make Apple Fritter^. 35. 5 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston. 

Cut in slicfts a brick loaf, three eggs, a pint of milk, 
sweetened and seasoned with nutmeg ; lay the bread in 
the mixture for three minutes ; fry on a buttered griddle ; 
eaten with butter. 

CRULLERS. 

Mrs. (Rev.) K. MacLennun, P. E. I. 

Four eggs, two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of milk, a 
piece of butter the size of an eg^, one teaspoonf ul of cream, 
and two of cream of tartar, four and a half or five cups- 
ful of flour ; mix cream of tartar in the flour, and dissolve 
the soda in the milk. 

GOOD PLAIN DOUGH-NUTS. 

Mrs. (Rev.) K. MacLennan, P. E. I. 

Five cupsful of flour, one cupful of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of lard, one egg, a pinch of salt, flavour to taste ; 
mix in the flour, first, a teaspoonful of soda, and two of 
cream of tartar, then add the other ingi-edients : use cold 
water or sweet milk for mixing ; fry in lard. 

TO MAKE APPLE FRITTERS. 

Mrs. TIios. McKay. 

Take one pint of milk, three eggs, salt to taste, and as 
much flour as will make a batter; l)eat the j'olks and 
whites separately, add the yolks to the milk, stir in the 
whites with as much flour as will make a batter ; have 
ready some tender apples, peel them, cut them in slices 
round the apple ; take the core carefully out of the centre 
of each slice, and to ever}- spoonful of batter lay in a slice 
of the apple, which must be cut very thin ; fry them in 
hot lard to a light brown on both sides. 



350 The Canadian Economist. 

FHJED FINGERS. 

Miss Helen II. Leslie, Kingston. 

Cut stale bread in slices rather thick, cut these in iin- 
g^ers, prepare a custard, that is, beat an egg, add milk, 
sugar and flavouring ; in this soak the bread for an hour 
or more, fry these in butter and arrange on a dish in the 
form of a pyramid, sprinkle with sugar and put jelly 
around. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. McKachtan, Cobourg. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, two even cupsful of flour 
prepared, one tablespoonful of salt ; beat the yolks, add 
the milk and salt, then the flour, lastly the whites of the 
eggs ; bake at once in a buttered dish forty-five minutes ; 
eat with good sauce. 

CRULLERS. 

Mrs. H. McElroy, Richmond, Out. 

Take six teaspoonsful of baking powder, half a cupful 
of butter, three eggs, two cupsful of sugar, two cupsful of 
cold water, two pounds of flour ; mix baking powder and 
flour together, add the butter, then mix the eggs, sugar 
and water together, and add to the flour and batter and 
fry in hot lard. 

BAKED BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. Thorfison. 

Allow a pint of cold milk, four tablespoonsful of flour, 
two eggs, and a little salt. Stir the flour smooth in a part 
of the milk ; then put in the eggs without first beating, 
and beat them well with the mixed flour, then add the 
remainder of the milk and the salt, and when well stirred 
togethei", pour it into a buttered dish, and bake it half an 
hour. When it is done, the whole top will have risen up. 



. Batter Pudding. 357 

So long as there is a little sunken spot in the centre, it is 
not baked enough. Make a cold or hot sauce as you pre- 
fer. This makes an ample pudding for a family of four. 
A batter pudding will not be light unless it is put in the 
oven immediately on being made. 

CRULLERS. 

Miss RobeHson. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, eight eggs, one 
nutmeg, one quart of buttermilk, one teaspoon ful of soda, one 
teaspoonful of salt, and as much flour as will make a soft 
dough. FrN" in hot lard. 

DOUGH -NUTS. 

Miss Steivart. 

One a^'^, one pint<jf milk, one cupful of sugar, three table- 
spoonsful of butter, half a nutmeg, thjee spoonsful of 
baking powder ; mix with flour, enough to roll out. 

CRULLERS. 

Miss Emmeline Thomson, (Jttawa. 

One teacupful of cream, one and a quarter of sugar, a 
saltspoonful of salt, three eggs, a level teaspoonful of soda. 
Flavour with nutmeg, or cinnamon ; mix soft and fry 
quickly in hot lard, and roll in white sugar while hot. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. WilliMms, Gkaudiere. 

Three eggs, the whites and yolks beaten sepaiateh', three 
tablespoonsful of flour, one teaspoonful of butter, half a 
pint of milk, salt, add the whites last, the flour must be 
beaten in the yolks of the eggs, and the milk by degrees, 



358 Tim Canadian Economist. 

BATTER PUl^DING. 

Home Messemjer. 

Six eggs beaten light, six tablespoonsful of Hour sifted, 
one quart of sweet milk. Bake an hour. 

FRIED CREAM, CREMK FRITE. 

Home Messenger. 

Every one should try this recipe. It will surprise many 
to know how soft cream should be enveloped in the crust ; 
it is an exceedingly good dish for a dinner course, or for 
lunch or tea. When the pudding is hard, it can be rolled 
in the egg and bread crumbs. The moment the egg touches 
the hot lard, it hardens and secures the pudding, which 
softens to a creamy substance very delicious. Ingredients : 
One pint of milk, five ounces of sugar (little more than a 
half-cupful), butter the size of a hickory nut, yolks of three 
eggs, two tablespoonsful of corn-starch, and one tablespoon- 
ful of flour (a generous) half-cupful altogether, stick of 
cinnamon, inch long, half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Put 
the cinnamon into the milk, and when it is just about to 
boil, stir in the sugar, the corn-starch, and floui", the two 
latter I'ubbed smooth with two or three tablespoonsful of 
extra cold milk. Stir it over the fire for fully two minutes 
to cook well the starch and flour; take it from the fire, stir 
into it the beaten yolks of the eggs, and return it for a 
few moments to set them ; now again taking it from the 
fire, remove the cinnamon, stir in the butter and vanilla, 
and pour it on a buttered platter until one-third of an inch 
high. When cold and stiff, cut the pudding into parallelo- 
grams about three inches long and two wide ; roll these 
carefully, first, in sifted cracker-crumbs, then in eggs, 
(slightly beaten and sweetened), then again in the cracker- 
crumbs. Dip these into boiling hot lard fa wire basket 
should be used if convenient), and when of fine colour, 
take them out and place them in the oven for four or five 



stale Bread Fritters. 359 

minutes to better soften the pudding. Sprinkle over pul- 
verized sugar, and serve immediately. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. McQuarrie 

Two cupsful of good sugar, three eggs, one cupful of 
sweet cream, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, and one nutmeg ; 
mix the sugar with the flour, and the cream with the 
eggs ; there should be four cupsful of flour ; roll out hard 
and fry . 

FRITTERS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

One pint of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
pint of boiling water ; stir the flour into the water by de- 
grees, and stir until it has boiled three minutes ; let it get 
almost cold, when beat in the yolks, then the whites of 
the eggs, which must be previously whipped stiff; 

PANCAKES. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

One pint of flour, six eggs, one saltspoonful of salt and 
same of soda dissolved in vinegar ; milk to make a thin 
batter. Begin with two cups and add until the batter is 
of the right consistency ; beat the yolks light, add the 
salt, soda and two cupsful of milk, then the flour and 
beaten whites of eggs alternately, and thin with more 
milk. 

STALE BREAD FlilTTERS. 

Miss Beecher. 

Cut stale bread in thick slices, and put it to soak for* 
several hours in cold milk, then fry it in sweet lard, and 
eat it with sugar, or molasses, or a sweet sauce : to make 
it more delicate, take off' the crusts. 



3G0 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

MUSH OR HASTY PUDDING. 

Miss Beech er. 

Wet up tlie Indian meal in cold water till there are no 
lumps, stir it gradually into boiling water which has been 
salted, till so thick that the stick will stand in it, boil 
slowly, and, so as not to burn, stirring often; two or three 
hours' boiling is needed. Pour it into a broad deep dish, 
let it grow cold, cut it into slices half an inch thick, flour 
them and fry them on a griddle with a little lard, or bake 
them in a stove oven. 

BATTER PUDDINCJ. 

Miss Beeclter. 

One quart of milk, twelve tablespoonsful of flour, nine 
eggs, a teaspoonful of salt; beat the yolks thoroughly, 
stir in the flour and add the milk slowly; beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth, and add the last things; tie in a 
floui'ed bag and boil two hours. 



A 



CHAPTER XXII. 
PUDDING SAUCES. 

ALMOND SAUCE. 

War lies Every-day Cookery. 

X ounce and a half of sweet almonds, seven bitter 
almonds, two teaspoonsful of orange-Mower water, 
yolks of two or three eggs, three tablespoonsful of cream, 
five lumps of sugar, or to your taste. Blanch and pour the 
bitter and sweet almonds in a mortar with the orange- 
flower water until they are a pulp, then put them into a 
delicately clean saucepan with the cream, the yolks of the 
eggs, well beaten, and sugar to your taste ; whisk it over 
a moderate fire until it is smooth and frothy, and serve it 
up with pudding. 

SAUCE FOR SPONGE PUDDING. 

Home Messenger. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one of butter, yolks of two eggs, 
Ijeaten to a cream ; heat over the kettle top, add the beaten 
whites ; flavour to your taste. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Home Messenger. 

Three tablespoonsful of white sugar, one even table - 
spoonful of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
stirred to a cream ; stir in gradually two tablespoonsful 



362 The Canadian Economist. 

of mace compound, add a teacupful of boiling water ; then 
set into a kettle of boiling water, stirring it constantly'' 
until the flour is cooked, 

FAIRY OR nun's BUTTER. 

Home Messenger. 

One tablespoonful of butter, and three of powdered 
sugar stirred together, till very light ; grate a little nut- 
meg over the top. 

MACE COMPOUND. 

Home Messenger. 

To take the place of sherry wine in puddings and sauces, 
soak half an ounce of mace eight hours in one teacupful 
of lemon juice, add half a teacupful of boiling water and 
scald twenty minutes. 

RAISIN SAUCE. 

Home Messenger. 

Cut half a pound of raisins and stew them in three tea- 
cupsful of water into which has been stirred, three table- 
spoonsful of imperial grits, and one saltspoonful of salt ; let 
stew thirty-five or forty minutes, add half a teacupful or 
six tables) )Oonsful of sugar and grate in half a nutmeg, 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Fa, 

One lemon, six pieces of loaf sugar, one teacupful of 
cold water, pare the rind from the lemon, and cut this in 
thin strips, put these strips of lemon rind into a small 
saucepan together with the lumps of sugar, and cover 
these with the cold water ; squeeze into the mixture the 
juice of the lemon ; put the pan over the fire and stir the 
contents until boiling, let all simmer slowly for twenty 



Flaw a I' I luj for Sauces. 3G3 

minutes. This sauce should be poured over the pudding 
with which it is served, so that the lemon rind may gar- 
nish the top of the pudding. 

PUDDING S.\U('E. 

Mrs. G. M. Hutchison. 

Two eggs well beaten, one cupful of white sugar, when 
mixed pour over a cupful oi boiling milk and stir rapidly ; 
flavour as you please. 

SAUCE FOR rUJ)DING. 

Mrs. Hunt, Boston. 

One cupful of sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful of boiled 
milk, half a tablespoonful of lemon juice ; beat the eggs 
and sugar, put the boiled milk into it. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Miss AUir McKiiii. 

Smooth flour in cold water, and add Ix^ilinw water, sucjar 
and spice, with the same quantity of butter as flour; stir 
over a slow fire. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Miss Robertson, Thorohl. 

Two cupsful of brown sugar mixed to paste with butter 
the size of an egg, add two tablespoonsful of cream or 
milk, stir well, and put in a cup of boiling water ; boil 
fifteen minutes, season with lemon or vinegar. 

FLAVOURING FOR SAUCES. 

Mrs. Willett, Clianihly. 

Take pie-plant, peel as if for pie, stew and strain same 
as for jelly. To one quart of juice add one pound of 
brown sugar : boil twenty niinutes. remove from fire, 



8G4 Tlce Canadian Economist. 

bottle and cork tight ; quantity to be used according to 
taste. 

PLAIN WHITE SAUCE 

Invalid's Cook. 

To a teaspoonfiil of arrowroot mix very gradually half 
a pint of new milk ; add a few grains of salt, and then 
put it into a small clean saucepan ; stir it one way over a 
good fire till it boils, and for a minute or two afterwards. 
Then put to it by degrees two ounces of butter, cut in 
little bits, and keep stirring till this is quite dissolved, 
when serve immediately. This is a very good plain sauce 
for pouring over boiled fowl or wherever a white sauce is 
directed. It ma}^ be flavoured with lemon-peel very 
thinly pared, and a little pounded mace if liked ; and it 
may be made richer by the addition of a little cream. 
But the secret of making it smooth and white is, never 
to cease stirring for a moment, because the butter in that 
case would turn to oil, and float instead of mixing. If 
arrowroot is not at hand, flour will do instead but the 
other is nicei-. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Presbyterian. 

Beat one cupful of sugar and half a cupful of butter 
to a light cream ; add the whites of two eggs well beaten, 
and a tablespoonful of orange, lemon, currant, or an}^ 
other juice with such seasoning as is agreeable ; beat all 
together a few minutes; set on the ice to harden. 

ORANGE SYRUP. 

This syrup is so easily made and can be used so con- 
stantly with advantage that no housekeeper should be 
without it. Select ripe and thin-skinned fruit, squeeze 
the juice through a sieve ; to every pint add one and a 
half pounds of powdered sugar, boil it slowly, and skim 



Orange Synij). 305 

as long as any scum rises. You may then take it off, let 
it crrow cold and bottle it off; be sure and secure the 
corks well. Two tables poonsfu I of this syrup, mixed in 
melted butter, make an admirable sauce for phini or 
batter-pudding. 

SWEET SAUCE. 

Allow one ounce of sugar (brown is the best) to each 
pei-son to be served, half that amount of butter creamed, 
and the yolk of one egg, flavouring highly with a fresh 
lemon. 

MAPLE SVRUP FOR PUDDING. 

Godeys Booh. 

Boil maple sugar, with very little water, clarify with 
egg and strain the syi'up. Vary by melting a little butter 
in it after .straining. When maple sugar is expensive, 
use half coffee-sugar. Coffee-siigar syrup, made a.s above, 
is the next thing to maple-syrup. 

PUDDING SAUCE 
Godeys Booh. 

One cupful of butter, half a cupful of sugar, yolk of one 
®oo J beat together ; stir in half a cupful of boiling water ; 
let it come to a boil, and when ready for use, flavour to 
taste. 

ORANGE SVRUP. 

Select ripe and thin-skinned fruit ; squeeze the juice 
through a sieve, and to every pint add one pound and a 
half of loaf sugar; boil it slowdy and skim as long as the 
scum rises; then take it off", let it grow cold and bottle it.. 
Two tablespoonsful of this syrup, mixed with melted 
butter, make a nice sauce for plum or batter puddings. 
Three tablespoonsful of it on a glass of ice-water make a 
delicious beverage. 



36(! The Canadian Economid. 

I'UDDING SAUCE. 

Gihh'ijs Booh. 

Whites of three eggs, l)eaten with one cupful and a half 
of powdered sugar, and a glass of any well flavoured jelly 
or preserve. 

SAUCE. 

Godey's Book. 

Beat together one egg, one teaspoonful of corn-stai-ch, 
one tablespoonful of flour, and two of sugar. Stir it into 
•half a pint of milk and flavour with vanilla after it is re- 
moved from the fire. 

SAUCE NO. 2. 

Godeys Booh. 

One cupful of brown sugar, two tablespoonsful of cream, 
one ounce of butter. Stir the butter and sugar thoroughly ; 
then add a little of the cream at a time, to keep from 
separating ; add raspl)erry vinegar for flavouring. 




CHAPTER XXIII. 
HOME-MADE EXTRACTS. 

EXTRACT Of SPICES. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

CRUSH a nutmeg,a dozen cloves and one blade of gincrer 
put these into a small bottle and cover with unsweet- 
ened gin. Shake occasionally, and at the expiration of a 
fortnight let the spice settle ; drain off the extract and 
again let it stand until perfectly bright. A few drops of 
this is useful for flavouring. 

VANILLA. 

CooJicry for Invalids. 

Vanilla should be cut into small pieces, and should be 
covered with brandy — not more than two tablespoonsful 
should be allowed for a .stick of vanilla. 

LEMON-rEEL. 

Cookery for Invalids. 

The most important flavouring is that of lemon-peel 
which is too often wasted when the juice is used. If a 
lemon has to be sent to table to eat with fish, rice, &ic., it 
can be previously pared, or the less to interfere with its 
appearance, grated. If the peel is not required for im- 
mediate use, put it into a wide-mouthed bottle containing 
a little gin. When it has stood a few days a delicious 



368 Ike Canadian Economist. 

flavour will be ready ; the flavouring can also be used for 
rice puddings, &c. The grated peel may be mixed with 
sifted sugar, put into a bottle and corked ; it will thus 
retain the flavour of fresh peel for some time. 

ALMOND FLAVOUKING 

Cookery j or Invalids 

Blanch bitter almonds, put them into a bottle and cover 
with gin, shake occasionally during three or four weeks, 
then drain off the liquid, allow it to stand until fine and 
it is ready for use. 

TO PRESERVE ORANGE PEEL. 

Mrs. Evans, Bristol, Que. 

Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, put the 
peel in strong salt and spring water to soak for three 
days. Repeat this three times, then put them on a sieve 
to dry ; boil it and skin until quite clear; let the peels 
simmer until quite transparent ; dry them before the fire ; 
take loaf sugar with just sufficient water to dissolve it, 
whilst the sugar is boiling put in the peels, stirring con- 
tinually until all the sugar is candied round them, then 
put them to dry either before the fire or in an oven, and 
when perfectly dry, put them past for use. 

NUTMEG EXTRACT. 

Little Dinners. 

Grate or pound a few nutmegs, put in a bottle, and to 
each nutmeg allow about two tablespoonsfnl of gin. 

CLOVE EXTRACT. 

Little Dinners. 

Take an ounce of cloves, pound them, put them into a 
half-pint bottle, and fill up with gin. 



Capillaire or Slmj^le Syrup. 309 



VANILLA. 

Little-Dinners. 

Cut a stick into very small pieces. Put into a small 
bottle and add two tablespoonsful of brandy. 

ALMOND FLAVOUR. 

Little Dinners. 

The almonds in this flavour will be useful for ring 
cakes, mince-meat and other purposes, and will keep a long 
time in the bottle, as they retain a gi'eat deal of the spirit. 

EXTRACT OF LEMON-PEEL. 

Little Dinners. 

Peel very thinly twent}'-five lemons, put the peel into 
two quart bottles, fill them up with brandy or unsweet- 
ened gin, shake them occasionally during a month, then 
drain off' the liquor into small bottles. The peel will keep 
for years, and can be used chopped finely for any purpose 
where lemon-peel is required. 

FLAVOURING FOR CAKES. 

^frs. W. B. McArthwr, Carleton Place. 

One pint of alcohol, two ounces of vanilla, two ounces 
of lemon, two ounces of almond. 

CAPILLAIRE OR SIMPLE SYRUP. 

Little Dinnet^s. 

Thi;5 syrup if properly made will keep a long time. Put 
a pound of the finest loaf sugar in large lumps, into a pint 
and a half of boiling water. Stir until dissolved, and 
then let it boil till it begins to thicken and assume a slight 
yellow tinge. Skim it carefully all the time, and if due 
attention is given to this, it will require no other clari- 
24 



370 The Canadian Economist. 

fication. When finished, put the syrup into a jug, and bot- 
tle it when perfectly cold. 

ESSENCE OF ORANGE, 

Booh of the Household, 

Rasp the rind of eighteen China oranges, and squeeze 
in the juice of six of them, mix the whole well and boil it 
in some syrup twenty minutes, stirring it all the time. 
When cold put it into bottles for use. 

ESSENCE OF LEMON. 

Booh of the Household. 

Rasp the lemons very thin, to a quarter of a pound of 
raspings allow one pound of sugar, powdered as finely as 
possible. Mix well till it is all of a colour and well in- 
corporated, press it down into small jars, tie white paper 
over it, and then leather or bladder. In one month it will 
be ready for use. 




CHAPTER XXIV. 

MERINGUES. 
Miss Eftie Durie, Ottawa. 



ri^HE whites of three eggs, one cupful of white sugar. 
JL Beat the eggs to a stiff froth ; add the sugar, and 
beat together until the mixture is so stiff that it will 
not run. Drop on greased paper, and cook for half an 
hour in a slow oven. 

To MAKE A FRENCH MERINGUE. 

Home Messenger. 

To each white of an 'Qgg, beaten as stiff as possible, 
take two heaping tablespoonfuls of pulverised sugar, sift 
it slightly and slowly into the whites, stirring till smooth ; 
spread over your pie, pudding, or fruit, sift a very trifle 
of sugar over the top, and bake quickly. If the oven 
browns too fast, shade the meringue with a paper that 
does not touch it. 

ITALIAN MERINGUES. 

Home Messenger. 

Boil four ounces of sugar slowly and steadily, with two 
tablespoonsf ul of water till it begins to crystalize, which 
can be told by its forming long threads, as you give 
the skimmer a sudden jerk ; then pour this into the 
whites of two eggs, beaten to a very stiff froth, and stir 
for five or ten minutes off the fire ; .sprinkle the top with 
split and blanched almonds, and bake as you do French 
meringues. 



372 The Canadian Economist. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Miss R. McXachtan, ('ohoiir(j. 

Sweeten and spice some nice aj)ple sauce, beat in two 
or three eggs, pour into a pudding-dish, and bake quickly. 
When well crusted over, cover with a meringue, made by 
whipping stiff the whites of three eggs with a little sugar. 
Shut the oven door to tinge slightly, 

AN APPLE MERINGUE. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

This is a delicious, quite showy dish, easy to make, and 
good when it is done. It needs good apples, that is, those 
with a sprightly flavour ; pare, quarter, and remove the 
cores ; stew in an enamelled saucepan, with sugar to 
taste, and a little cinnamon, as soon as the apples are done 
through, having kept the quarters as whole as possible, 
turn them into a pudding-dish ; be careful not to break 
them up. While the apples are cooking, get the meringue 
ready. For a moderate sized dish, use the whites of four 
eggs, beaten to a firm froth, four ounces of sugar, and 
flavour with lemon ; spread this over the apples in the 
dish, set the dish in the oven, and bake until the surface 
is well and evenly browned. Serve hot for dessert, but 
some prefer to let it get cold, and eat it with cream. 

MERINGUES. 

Booh of the Household. 

Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a solid froth, then add 
the rind of six lemons grated extremely fine, and a spoon- 
ful of sifted sugar. After which' lay a sheet of paper on 
a tin and with a spoon drop the mixture in little lumps 
separately upon it, sift sugar over and put them to bake 
in a moderately heated oven, taking care they are done of 
a nice colour; then put raspberry, apiicot, or any other 



Italian Macaroons. 373 

kind of jam between two of these bottoms, lay them to- 
gether, and set them in a warm place, or before the fire to 
dry. 

APPLE MERINGUE PIES. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Stew and sweeten ripe, juicy apples, when you have 
pared and sliced them. Mash smooth and season with 
nutmeg. If 30U like the flavour stew some lemon-peel 
with the apple and remove when cold. Fill your crust 
and bake until just done. Spread over the apple a thick 
meringue made by whipping to a stiff froth from the eggs 
for each pie, sweetening with a tablespconf ul of powdered 
sugar for each ecfor. Flavour this with rose water or 
vanilla. Beat until it will stand alone, and cover the pie 
three-quarters of an inch thick. Set it back in the oven 
until the meringue is well set. Should it colour too darkly, 
sift powdered sugar over when cold. Eat cold. They 
are very fine. Peach pies are even more delicious. 

ITALIAN MACAROONS. 

Godeys Book. 

Take one pound of almonds blanched, pound them very 
fine with the whites of four eggs, add two pounds and a 
half of sifted loaf-sugar, and rub them well together with 
the pestle. Put in by degrees about ten or eleven more 
whites, working them as well as you put them in ; but 
the best criterion to go by in trying theii" brightness is to 
bake one or two, and if you find them heavy, use one or 
two more whites. Put the mixture into a biscuit-funnel, 
and lay them out on wafer-paper in pieces about the size 
of a small walnut, having ready about two ounces of 
blanched and dry ahnonds cut into slips, put three or four 
pieces on each, and bake them on wires, or a baking-plate 
in a slow oven. Almonds should be blanched and dried 
gradually two or three days before they are used, by 



374 The Canadian Economist. 

which means tliey will work much better, and where lartje 
quantities are used, it is advised to grind them in a mill 
})rovided for that purpose. 

MERINGUE OF APPLES. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Take twelve apples (Russet or Ribstone pippins are the 
best, as they are less watery than others), cut them in 
quarters, take out the cores and slice ; place them in a 
stewpan, and stir over a brisk fire foi* a quarter of an 
hour, with six ounces of butter and a quarter of a poiuid 
of pounded sugar ; when cool add two tablespoonsf ul of 
jam, according to taste. Place the whole in the form of 
a ])yramid in the centre of a dish and cover thickly with 
the whites of three eggs whipped to a firm cream with a 
quartei' of a pound of pounded sugar. Lay this mixture 
on, sprinkle more sugar over and bake. When done the 
meringue should have acquired a pale yellow colour. 
Time about ten minutes to bake. 

CREAM MERINGUE. 

Common Sejise in the Household . 

Four eggs (the whites only) whipped stiff, with one 
pound of pounded sugar, lemon or vanilla flavouring. 
When very stiff heap in the shape of half an egg upon 
stiff letter-paper, lining the bottom of your baking-pan, 
have them half-an-inch apart. Do not shut the oven door 
closely, bit leave a sj)ace through which you can watch 
them. When they are a light yellow brown, take them 
out and cool quickly. Slip a thin bladed knife under 
each ; scoop out the soft inside and fill with cream 
whipped as for charlotte rus.^ie. They are very fine. The 
oven should be very hot. 



CHAPTER XXV. 
CUSTARDS, CREAMS, &c. 

FLOATING ISLANDS. 

^frfi. BcddvAn. 

SET three pints of new milk over a kettle of boiling 
water, beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth 
and when the milk boils put it in, in spoonsful, when 
scalded through turn over, and when sufficiently cooked 
take them out carefully and put on a plate. Beat the 
yolks with sugar enough to make a rich custard, pour 
into tiie l)oiling milk and season with lemon. When cold, 
place the wliitos on top of the cu.stard. 

APPLE SXOW. 

Mrs. Breckon, Ottaiva. 

Put twelve good tart apples in cold water. Set them 
(jver a slow fire. When soft, drain oft' the water, strip oft" 
the skins, core them, lay them in a deep dish. Beat the 
whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, then add the beaten 
whites and beat the whole to a stift" snow, then turn into 
a dessert -dish. Ornament with myrtle or box. 

IJOILED CUSTARD. 

Miss J. W. Cannichael, Bryson. 

Two tablespoonsful of corn-.starch to one quart of milk. 
Mix the corn-starch with a small quantity of milk and 



370 The Canadian Ecoitoinist. 

Havour with lemon, Beat two eggs^ heat the quart of 
milk to nearly boiling point, then add 'ihe mixed corn- 
starch, the eggs, and four taV^spoonsful of sugar. Stir it 
till it thickens. Pour into cu&oard cups. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Anonymous. 

Boil one pint of cream, one half-pint of milk, cinnamon 
and lemon-peel a little of each ;, A^'Jien cold mix the yolks 
of three eggs, sweeten to make^^ar pie-plate nearly full 
after lining with good paste. Bake hfteen minutes. 

CHICKEN CUSTARDS FOR SIX. 

Miss HopTcirk, Ottavxi. 

Take the yolks of four eggs, \\l^^i them up, to which 
add live small custardcupsful of gf|^</ plain chicken broth, 
mix the w-hole together, pass it through a sieve and fill 
your cups with it. You then proceed to steam them in 
the same manner you would a cabinet pudding, observing 
that the heat must not be too great as otherwise the con- 
tents would become hard and curdle. 

N.B. — This receipt may be folloj^ved for making any 
sort of savoury custard, with the only difference of sub- 
stituting veal, beef, or any kind of-i)roth you may have, 
for the chicken broth. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CUSTARD. 

Mrs. (Rev.) A. Kemp, D.D., Ottawa. 

Set on to boil a quart of new midk, mix with half a 
cupful of cold milk, two ounces of grated sweet chocolate, 
pour some of the boiling milk to it, and then pour back 
into the pan of boiling milk, stirring it all the time, when 
heated through and just coming to boiling point, add 
the yolks of six eggs which have been beaten with a cup- 



Almond Custard. 377 

ful of powdered 8Ugar, when these are blended add three 
whites beaten, i^vith a Httle extract of vanilla, reserving 
the other three whites fc^^Jrosting. This is enough for 
ten cups, '- 

POTATO CUSTARD. 

Miss Lesslie, Kingston. 

To four medium-sized potatoes, boiled and mashed, add 
two large tablespoonsful of sugar, two eggs, one cupful 
of milk, and one ounce )f butter. Beat well and bake in 
a pudding-dish. Serv ^.vith sauce. 

APPLE SNOW, 

Miss H. H. Lesslie, Kingston. 

Pare and core twelve apples, steam until tender ; when 
cool pour over them t>ie whites of three eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Serve \> /sugar and cream flavoured. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Miss Allie McKay. 

Three eggs, three teaspoonsful of powdered sugar, one 
quart of milk, boiled, one tablespoonf ul of corn-starch in 
milk ; add eggs,' sugir, and essence. Pour over this the 
boilincr milk ; stir orentlv over a slow hre till the custard 
thickens, but do not boil. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

M i:<. ir. 11. Mc Arthur, Carleton Place. 

Two cupsful of -fresh milk with a pinch of soda stirred 
in, half a pound of almonds, blanched, dried and pounded, 
three beaten eggs, one-half cupful of powdered sugar, rose 
water, one cocoa-nut thrown into cold water and grated. 
Scald the milk, stir in the almond paste which should 
be mixed in rosewater to prevent oiling. Boil one minute 



•i78 The Canadian Economist. 

and pour upon the beaten eggs and sugar. Return to the 
fire, stir till the mixture begins to thicken. Take off and 
pour into a bowl. When cold turn into a glass dish and 
heap up with grated cocoa-nut. Strew powdered sugar 
over all. 

lUCE CUSTARDS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Sweeten a phit of milk with loaf sugar, boil it with a 
stick of cinnamon, stir in sifted ground rice till quite 
thick. Take it off the fire ; add the whites of three eggs, 
well beaten ; stir it again over the fire for two or three 
minutes, then put it into cups that have lain in cold water 
do not wipe them. When cold turn them out and put' 
them into the dish in which they are to be served, pour 
round them a custai'd made of the yolks of the eggs and 
little more than half a pint of milk. Put on the top a 
little red currant jel'ly or raspberry jam. 

FRENCH FLUMMERY. 

Mrs. Thos. McKau. 

Boil slowly two ounces of Isinglass shavings in a quart 
of cream fifteen minutes ; stir all the time, and sweeten it 
with loaf sugar, not pounded, le.st any dust should be in 
it ; add a spoonful of rose water and some orange-flower 
water. Strain it into a shape and serve with baked pears 
around it. 

SNOW CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Parr, Ottawa. 

Half a package of Cox's gelatine, three eggs, and one 
pint of milk, two cupfuls of sugar, juice of one lemon. 
Soak the gelatine one hour in a teacupful of cold water. 
To this, at the end of this time, add one pint of boiling 
w^ater. Stir until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved ; 
add two-thii'ds of the sugar and lemon juice. Beat the 



Floating Apple Island. 379 

whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the gelatine 
is quite cold whip it into the whites, a spoonful at a time, 
for at least an hour. When all is stiff, pour into a mould 
previously wet with cold water, and set in a cold place. 
In four or five hours turn into a glass dish. Make a cus- 
tard of the milk, eggs, and remainder of the sugar ; ilavour 
with vanilla, and when the meringue is turned out of the 
mould, pour this around the basci. 

BAKED COSTARD. 

Mi'K Thos. McKa}). 

Boil and sweeten, with fine sugar, a pint of milk and 
another of cream with a stick of cinnamon and a bit of 
leu)on-pep] : fill the cups and bake for ten minutes. 

CHOCOLATE Cl'STARD. 

Mrs. Boihjer, Montreal . 

One ounce of chocolate, one pint of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, three eggs. Mix all together. The 
milk, yolks of eggs, white of one egg and chocolate dis- 
.solved in warm water, and boil. When cool, pour over 
top sweetened whites of two eggs. 

FLOATING APPLE ISLAND. 

Mrs. Widford, Renfrew. 

Boil six or eight large apples, when the}' are cold peel 
and core them, rub the pulp thoroughly through a sieve 
with the back of a wooden spoon, then beat up light with 
sugar to your taste. Beat the whites of four eggs in 
orange water in another bowl till it is a light froth, then 
mix it with your apples, a little at a time, till all is beaten 
together and it is exceedingly light. Make a rich boiled 
custard, put it in a glass dish, and lay the apples all over 
it, and garnish with currant jelly. 



380 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Mrs. Bodger, Montreal. 

Peel, core, and quarter twelve apples, stew gentlj^ with 
a cup of cold water; when reduced nearly to pulp, turn 
into a dish ; make a soft custard of one quart of milk, 
four eggs, sugar and flavour to taste. When cold lay over 
the apples, and beat whites of four eggs with a quarter 
of a pound of pow^lered sugar, and heap lightly on top. 

APPLE SNOW\ 

Miss Lizzie Stark, Carleton Place. 

Stew some fine flavoured sour apples tender, sweeten to 
taste ; strain them thi-ough a sieve, and break into one 
pint of strained apples the white of an egg; whisk the 
apple and egg very briskly till very stiff, and it will be 
white as snow. Eat with boiled custard. 

'JOMATO CUSTARD, 

Fcnnily Friend. 

This is said to be a beneficial diet for consum|)tives. It 
is made by straining finely stewed tomatoes through a 
coarse sieve and adding two pints of milk and one pint of 
tomatoes to four eggs and one teaspoonf ul of sugar ; bake 
in small cu[)s quickly. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

J/v-v. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Beat the yolks of four fresh eggs for at least half an 
hour, add five ounces of pulverized sugar, then stii- into 
the sugar and eggs one quart of rich new milk, cold, add 
one teaspoonful of distilled rose-water, or any flavouring 
extract you fancy ; fill your custard cups and set them in 
a stovepan which is half filled with water (warm, not 



Chocolate Cream. 381 

hot), put this pan in a moderate oven, in about twenty 
minutes it will get firm. Judgment and great care are 
needed to attain skill in making custard ; if left in the 
oven too longf, or if the fire is too hot, the milk will cer- 
tainly whey. 

CHICKEN BLANC-MANGE. 

Mrs. (Rec.) A. Scott, Owen Sound. 

Cut up one chicken, boil it slowly, adding salt and pep- 
per to taste ; when done skim out the chicken, remove 
the bones and pick the meat quite fine ; while doing this, 
let one pint of isinglas-*, broken up, be boiling in the 
liquor, then add the picked chicken, and let all boil to- 
gether for a few moments; then pour in a mould. When 
cold, it is an excellent dish for a cold supper, or to slice 
for sandwiches. 

RUSSIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. Alloway, Winni/Hy. 

Half a Imjx of gelatine, one quart of milk, three eggs, 
one small cupful of sugar ; put the gelatine in the milk 
on the fire, and stir well as it warms ; beat the volks liijht 
with the sugar, and add to the scalding milk, then heat 
to boiling point again, stirring all the while^ then take off* 
the stove, and immediately stir in the whites of the three 
eggs beaten to a stifi' froth ; fiavour with vanilla, and 
pour into a mould wet with cold water. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Mrs. Alloivay, Winuipey. 

Half a box of gelatine, one quart of milk (flouring mea- 
sure), three eggs and a cupful of sugar ; put the gelatine 
in the milk on the fire, and stir well as it warms ; beat 
the yolks lightl}' with the sugar and half a cake of cho- 
colate scraped very fine, and add to the scalding milk ; 
then heat to boiling point again, stirring all the while ; 



382 The Canadian Economist. 

then take ofT the stove, flavour with a little vanilla, and 
pour into a mould ; wet with water. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Mi>is Lily Rain, Perth. 

The strained juice of two aud grated rind of one lemon, 
the whites of four eggs and yolk of one, a cupful of pow- 
dered sugar and a cupful of water ; beat the eggs very 
slightly, stir in the sugar, lemon and water, then set the 
mixture on a moderate fire and stir till it thickens ; put 
into glasses before it gets cold. 

CHOCOLATE BLAN(-MAN(ili:. 

Mrs. Bangs. 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in as small a quantity of 
warm water as will cover it ; when melted put on the fire 
to dissolve ; four ounces of chocolate ; do not let it scorch, 
and when liquid add one quart of new milk and three- 
quarters pf a pound of sugar ; hoil all five minutes stirring 
constantly. Take off* the fire, flavour with vanilla, and 
pour into moulds. 

TAriOCA CREAM. 

Mrs. B rough, Ottawa. 

Three tablespoons ful of tapioca, cover it with water 
soak four hours, pour ofl'the water, pvit one quart of milk 
over the fire, when it boils stir in the yolks of three eggs, 
and a little salt ; stir it till it begins to thicken ; make 
frosting of the whites of three eggs, spread over the top 
and flavour witli vanilla. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

ilf/'s. Cunninr/ham, Ottatni. 

Ingredients : One quart, of milk, four eggs, two table- 
spoonsful of gelatine, four of white sugar, a few drops of 



Charlotte Russe. 383 

vanilla. Put the gelatine into half the milk, and boil un- 
til dissolved. Then add second half of the milk, and 
yolks of eggs well beaten with the sugar, then mix in the 
whites of the eggs, and keep stirring until the eggs are 
cooked, then pour into a mould, and allow it to get quite 
cold before it is used. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. Crmhet, Montreal. 

Dissolve four sheets of isinglass in one teacupful of 
milk, one teacupful of sugar, flavour with vanilla, to suit 
the taste. Take one quart of whipped cream, beaten un- 
til it is stiff, and pour into the isinglass after it is cool. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Mim Ettie Durie, Ottawa . 

One pint of milk, half a box of gelatine, three eggs, five 
tablespoon fuls of sugar. Soak the gelatine in the milk 
until quite soft, add the sugar, and w^hen it comes to the 
boiling point, add the beaten yolks of the eggs. Stir un- 
til it begins to thicken, then take it off the fire, and stir 
in the whites of the ej^fjs beaten to a froth. Flavour with 
vanilla and pour into moulds. To l)e served with sauce. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. Donaldson. 

Make into a custard, three eggs, half a pound of sugar, 
one pint milk, leaving out the white of one egg to glue 
the cakes with. Dissolve half box of gelatine in half a 
pint of cold water, and let it simmer on the fire ; stain 
this into the custard, and stir until it is cold. Whip to a 
froth one quart of rich cream flavoured according to taste. 
Flavour the custard with vanilla, and mix the cream in 
lightly, when the custard is cold and stiff enough to re- 



384 TJte Canadian Economist. 

ceive it, then flour into a mould or glass dish lined with 
thin slices of sponge cake or ladiesfingers three dozen. Lady 
fingers answer for a large mould. 

HAMBUEG CREAM. 

Mrs' Deicar. 

Yolks of five eggs, juice of one lemon, one cupful of white 
sugar, beat these well together, set ia a dish of hot water 
and cook until it is thick ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
pour the yolks into the whites, and stir well. 

CALEDONIA CREAM. 

Mrs. E calls, Bristol. 

The whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
two of raspbeny preserves. Beat all well together three- 
(piarters of an hour. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Miss Kate Fuyrre/I, Klngstoit. 

One half box of gelatine, one quart of milk, the yolks 
(jf three eggs, and one small cupful of white sugar. Soak 
the gelatine in the milk one hour, then put on the fire, 
and stir well as it warms. Beat the yolks and sugar well 
together, add to the scalding milk, and allow to come to 
the boiling point. Flavour and strain through a thin 
muslin bag, when almost cold put into a mould, wet with 
cold water. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Mrs. Hutchison, Ottawa. 

A pint of thick sweet cream and half a pint of milk, two 
glassesful of sweet cider, a dessertspoonful of rosew^ater, 
and five ounces of sugar. One and a half ounces of gela- 
tine, dissolved first by putting it in cold then in boiling 
water, to be poured into the cream, but not until it has 



CJiarlotte llv^se. 38o 

been strained. Alix cream and milk fii-st, then sugar and 
cider, and the gelatine last. The ingredients must be very 
thoroughly beaten before this last is put in. Fill your 
jelly-moulds, and when firm turn out. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Miss Hopkirk. 

Heat three pints of milk to near a boiling point, stii* 
into it the yolks of eight eggs and a large tablespoonful 
of corn- starch. Let it thicken a little, sweeten and flavour 
to taste. Lay slices of sponge-cake in the dish, then pour 
over the pudding, add to the top the whites of the eggs, 
set it in the oven, and let it warm slightly. 

SNOW CREAM — A SUPPER DISH. 

Mrs. J. F. Lesslie, Kingston. 

The whites of four eggs, half ounce of gelatine. Steep 
the f'elatine in a little cold water, then dissolve the susrar 
and gelatine in boiling water, making about a pint in all. 
Flavour with lemon or any other essence to taste. Whip 
the whites of the esfcrs to a stiff froth, mix them with the 
other ingredients, beat too^ether, standincr the basin in cold 
water, or on the sill of an open window, till the mixture 
is thick enough to stand on the fork. Take the whites 
of the eggs, wet the mould, and pour in. A custard served 
round the dish when the cream is turned out is considered 
an improvement. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. J. Leslie, Ottawa. 

Ingredients — About eighteen savoury biscuits, three- 
quarters of a pint of cream, flavouring of vanilla, one 
tablespoonful of pounded sugar, half a tablespoonful of 
isinglass. Brush the edges of the ladies' fingere firm to 
rest upon. Great care is required in the turning out of 
25 



38() The Canadian Economist. 

this dish, that the cream does not burst the case, and the 
edges of the fingers must have the smallest quantity of 
eg^ brushed over them, or they would stick to the mould, 
and so prevent the charlotte russe coming away freely. 

SPONGE CREAM. 

Mrs. {Rev.) J. McEwen, Tngersolt. 

Half a box of gelatine, one quart of milk, four eggs, 
three tablespoonsful of sugar, beaten with the yolks of 
the eggs, Dissolve the gelatine with the milk, when dis- 
solved scald the milk and add the yolks. Stir till done, 
then add the whites of the eggs, and pour into moulds. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Miss. Allie McKay. 

One pint of cream, whipped, half an ounce of gelatine, 
dissolved in one gill of hot milk, whites of two eggs, 
beaten to a froth, one small teacupful of powdered sugar, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, mix sugar, cream, and eggs, 
and essence, in the gelatine. When cold, line a mould 
with ladies' fingers, and pour in the cream. Set on ice. 

PEACH MERINGUE. 

Mrs. Masson, Detroit. 

Out up peaches, and put in the bottom of a dish ; sprin- 
kle them with sugar. Make an icingr of the whites of 
three eggs and three-fourths of a cupful of sugar, spread 
over the peaches, and bake a few minutes. 

BLANCMANGE. 

Mrs. Masson, Detroit. 

Take four ounces of sweet almonds, blanched, half an 
ounce of bitter almonds, pound them in a wedgwood mor- 
tar, moistening them gradually with orange-flower water, 



Lemon Cream. 387 

liiix this with one quart of fresh creaui. Have the largest 
half of a box of Cox's gelatine soaking in half a cupful of 
cold water one hour. Set your cream and almonds on the 
tire, stiring constantly ; when it comes to a scald, pour in 
the gelatine, and stir till it dissolve's Put in moulds. 

APPLE CKEAM. 

Mrs. Ihomas McKay. 

Put into a pan twelve tablespoonsful of the pulps of 
baked apples (the whiter the better), the same proportion 
of cream, beat well together with a pint and a quarter of 
lemon jelly, made with one ounce and a quarter of Cox's 
gelatine ; lemon juice, peel and sugar to taste. Clear 
the jelly with the white of an egg. 

BLANCMANGE. 

Mrs. Thox. McKay. 

Break half an ounce of isingla.ss in small pieces, and 
wa.sh well, pour on a pint of boiling water, next morning- 
add a quart of milk, and boil until the isinglass is dis- 
solved, and .strain it. Put in two ounces of blanched 
almonds, pounded, sweeten with loaf sugar, and turn it 
into the mould. Stick thin .slips of almonds all over the 
blancmange, and dress around with whip-cream. 

LEMON CRE.VM. 

Mrs. TJiomas McKay. 

Take a pint of thick cream and put to it the yolks of 
two eggs, well-beaten, a quarter of a pound of loaf .sugar, 
finely powdered, and the rind of a lemon cut thin ; boil it up 
and stir it until it is nearly cold, put the juice of a lemon 
into a dish and pour the cream upon it, stirring till quite 
cold. 



388 The Canadian Economist, 

CHOCOLATE MOSS. 

Mrs. Thonnas McKay. 

Beat the whites of eggs with powdered sugar flavoured 
with rose or vanilla, to a stiff" foam ; make water choco- 
late very thick, and when cold beat it up with the eggs 
and sugar ; use one stick of chocolate and the white of an 
Qgg to each person. Excellent. 

CURDS OF CEEAM. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

With about half a tablespoonful of rennet, turn two 
quarts of milk just from the cow, drain off" the whey and 
till a mould with the curd ; when it has stood an hour or 
two turn it out, strew coloured comfits over it; sweeten 
some cream, mixgrated nutmeg with it and pour it round 
the curd. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Miss McRae, Renfrciv. 

Dissolve four sheets of gelatine (or a third of a box of 
Cox's) in a cup of sweet milk, heat the milk first but 
don't boil it; when perfectly dissolved strain through mus- 
lin, add one cupful of good sweet cream, beat the whites of 
four eggs with four tablespoonsful of milk to a stiff froth, 
all together, flavour to taste, line a mould with sponge 
cake ; pour in and set away to cool ; when ready for the 
table beat three whites of three eggs and three table- 
spoonsful of sugar. Ice over and you have a delicious 
dessert. 

AMERICAN CREAM. 

M}'8. Mutchmore, Ottaim, Kansas, 

Put half a box, (twenty-five cent box) of gelatine in 
one quart of milk, let it soak half an hour, then let it come 
to aboil, set off the stove, so that it will not be boiling 



Iceland Moss. 389 

when the eggs are added; put in. the yolks of four eggs 
well beaten, with three tablespoonsful of sugar : replace 
on the stove to heat, but not to boil, then add three whites 
of four eggs, beaten with three tablespoonsful of sugar ; 
ilavour and pour in moulds. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

One quart of cream put into a bowl with some pow- 
dered sugar and a very small drop of naroli ; have ano- 
ther utensil with a sieve over it, whip the cream with 
a whisk, and as it rises in a froth take it off with a skim- 
mer, and put it on the sieve to continue till finished, al- 
ways returning to the bowl that which drains from the 
sieve; when done, put it into your dish, ornament with 
zest of lemon. It is likewise served in glasses. Wafer 
also a garnish. 

TAPIOCA BLANCMANGE. 

3/iss 3/., Kingston. 

Half a pound of tapioca, soaked in a pint of new milk 
one hour, then boiled till tender, sweeten to taste with 
loaf sugar, flavour with lemon, almond or vanilla ; pour 
into a mould, turn out, serve with custard or cream and 
preserves, if wislied. 

ICELAND MOSS. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Dried moss half an ounce, boiling water a pint ; digest 
oi" infuse in boiling water tw'o hours in a close vessel, boil 
a quarter of an hour and strain while hot ; it is clear and 
l»itter and will jelly even when made with eight watei's ; 
some take it combined with chocolate or coffee, it is plea- 
santer. It is most valuable in dysentery, con.sumption, 
spitting of blood, hooping cough, measles, &c. 



•390 The Canadian Economist. 

OAERAGEEN MOSS BLANCMANGE. 

Miss M., Kingston. 

Steep it a minute or two in cold water, it will soften 
and spread out, wash it well and put into cold milk, let it 
boil a minute or two, then strain, sweeten and flavour. 
A small handful is enough for a pint of milk. 

CHARLOTTE Ri;SSE. 

Mrs. Hiram Rohinson. 

One quart of lith cream, foureggs,half a packageof Cox's 
gelatine, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. Beat 
yolks and sugar together. Add whites beaten stiflf'. Whip 
the cream light and smooth, flavour with vanilla. Stir 
all together and strain in the gelatine thoroughly. Serve 
in a glass dish. Ornament with ladies' lingeis or maca- 
roons, or pour into a dish lined with sponge cake. 

ITALIAN CREA.\L 

Mrs. Hiram Rohnison. 

Put the juice of one lemon and the rind of two to one 
quait of thick cream, with half a pound of sugar, and let 
it stand for half an hour, then whisk it till it becomes very 
thick, add one ounce of isinglass dissolved in half a pint 
of water till perfectly smooth and tree from lumps. Strain 
the whole mixture through a fine sieve and beat for sev- 
eral minutes, put into a mould or moulds, and when cold 
and perfectly set, turn out upon a dessert-dish. 

RICE BLANCMANGK. 

Mrs. Rosy, O.L.C. 

Rub smooth about two ounces of ground rice, in a little 
milk, then take a quart of milk and boil it with the peel 
of half a lemon, and a few almonds, sweeten it with loaf 



Snoiv. 391 

sugar, and stir the rice into it over the fire until it is 
thick and then put it into a mould. \Mien turned out 
cover it with custard. Wet the mould before you put in 
the lice. 

VELVET CRE\M. 

^fr8. UrquhaH, PtterhorovAjh. 

Half a cup of gelatine in a cup of cold water. Scald 
one quart of milk. Beat up the whites of five eggs with 
ten tablespoonsful of white sugar, add all the milk and 
boil together, beat the whites to a stiff froth, take from 
the fire, and stir in the whites when cool. Add vanilla to 
flavour. Pour into the mould and let it cool. 

BURNT CREAM. 

Mrs. Urqahart, Peterborough. 

From one quart of milk take enough to blanch thorough- 
ly three-fourths of a cupful of wheat flour, or rather less 
of corn-starch. Scald the remainder of the milk and pour 
on the paste — stirring well. When smooth pour back 
into the saucepan, and let it boil till it thickens. Mean- 
while in another pan, let one cup of brown sugar melt 
and burn accordingly. Into this pour the boiling milk, 
and flour and boil all together. Mould and serve with 
whipped cream round the dish. 

SNOW. 

3Iiss Maggie White, Hamilton. 

Soak half a sixpenny package of gelatine in cold water, 
just enough to cover it, then add nearly a breakfast cup- 
ful of boiling water, stirring well, that it maybe thoroughly 
dissolved. To this when slighly cooled add the whites of 
two eggs, half a pound of white sugar, and juice of one 
lemon, whisk well for half an hour. Pour it into a 
mould which has been previously rinsed with cold water. 



392 The Canadian Economist. 

APPLE TRIFLE. 

Young Ladies' JonrnaJ. 

Ten good-sized apples, the rind of half a lemon, six 
ounces of pounc^ed sugar, half a pint of milk, half a pint 
of cream, two eggs, whipped cream. Peel, core, and cut 
the apples into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan, 
with two tablespoonsful of water, the sugar and minced 
lemon rind. Boil all together until quite tender, and pulp 
the apples through a sieve ; if they should not be quite 
sweet enough, add a little more sugar, and put them at 
the bottom of the dish to form a thick layer. Stir to- 
gether the milk, cream, and eggs, with a little sugar over 
the fire, and let the mixture thicken, but do not allow it 
to reach the boiling point. When thick, take it off the 
fire, let it cool a little, then pour it over the apples. Whip 
some cream with sugar, lemon peel, &c., the same as for 
other trifles, heap it high over the custard, and the dish is 
ready for table. It may be garnished as fancy dictates, 
mth strips of bright apple jelly, slices of citron, &c. 

SAGO CREAM. 

Anonymous. 

A tablespoonful of good pearl sago, boil in pure water 
till reduced to a jelly ; add one cupful of sweet cream 
and boil again, beat up one fresh egg very light, and pour 
the sago on while hot, sweeten and spice witli nutmeg or 
flavour with lemon or vanilla to taste. 








CHAPTER XXVI. 

ICE-CREAM, WATER ICES AND FROSTING PHIL- 
ADELPHIA ICE-CREAM. 

Mrs. H. F. Brons&n. 

TWO quarts of milk (cream when you have it), three 
tablespoonsful of arrowroot. The whites of eight 
eggs, well beaten; onepound of powdered white sugar. Boil 
the milk, thicken it with the arrowroot, add the sugar, 
and pour the whole upon the eggs. Flavour to taste with 
lemon or vanilla. 

ANOTHER ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. H. F. Bronson. 

Three quarts of cream or milk, two and a-half pounds 
of sugar, twelve eggs, well beaten ; mix all together in a 
tinpail, add one vanilla bean (split). Put the pail into a 
kettle of boiling w^ater, and stir all the time, until the cus- 
tard is quite thick. After it is cool, add two quarts of 
rich cream, and freeze it. 

CURRANT RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY WHISK. 

Mrs. H. F. Bronson. 

Put two gills of the juice of the fruit to ten ounces of 
ciushed sugar ; add the juice of a lemon and a pint and 
a half of cream. Whisk till thick, and serve in jelly 



394 The Canadian Economist. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. H. F. Bronson. 

Rub a pint of strawberries through a sieve, add a pint 
of cream and four ounces of powdered sugar, and freeze it. 

ICE CREAM (delicious). 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One quart of sweet cream, one quart of milk, beat tho- 
roughly together with a pound of sugar; add for vanilla 
cream, the whites of four eggs thoroughly beaten together. 
Flavour with vanilla, lemon or orange, as preferred. Place 
it in the freezer and keep constantly in motion while 
freezing. 

ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. McTavish, Osgoodc. 

Two and a-half quarts of milk, about one pound of 
sugar, four eggs, one-half of a small box of gelatine put in 
some of the milk ; place on the back part of the stove 
until dissolved, then add balance of milk; flavour and 
freeze. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Take the juice of four lemons, and the peel of one grated, 
add two gills of syrup and one pint of cream ; mix it al- 
together, press it through a sieve and freeze it. 

PINE-APPLE CREAM. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Have some pine-apple prepared in syrup and cut into 
small dice, putting it into your cream with a little of the 
syrup. The other process as usual. 



Lemon Ice Waier. 395 

ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

One quart of cream, one coffeecupful of sugar, flavouring 
directly before freezing, add the beaten whites of four, 
li^■e or six eggs ; if there is a dasher in the freezer the 
cream will be sufficiently frothed, otherwise it must be 
whipped before freezing. Work the dasher until it is 
very thick and stiff. It is important to use the ice and 
salt directly they are mixed. 

WATER ICES. 

If made from jams, you must rub them through a sieve 
adding thick boiled syrups and lemon juice and some jelly 
and colouring ; if for pink, add the white of an eg^ whipt 
up before you add it to the best half of a pint of spring 
water. If of jam, you must have a pint of mixture in all 
to make a quart mould. If from fruits with synip, you 
will not require water. 

ORANGE ICE WATER. 

The Juice of six oranges and grated peel of three, the 
juice of two lemons; squeeze out every drop of juice, and 
let the gi-ated peel steep in the juice, strain well through 
a fine cotton cloth ; mix in one pint of sugar, then one 
pint of water ; freeze as you woulil ice cream. 

LEMON ICE WATER. 

Make a syiup of three-quarters of a pound of sugar and 
three-quarters of a pint of water; it should be well boiled 
in a bain-marie, or if not handy, a jug placed in a sauce- 
pan of hot water will do equally well ; take three-quar- 
ters of a pint of lemon juice, rub the peel of four lemons 
on to lumps of sugar and add to the juice, pour in the 
syrup, let it stand two hours, then strain and freeze ; when 
the ice begins to set in the tin, stir in the white of an 



39G The Canadian Economist. 

&gg previously beaten up with a little fine sugar. This 
recipe makes a pint and a half. 

FKUIT ICES. 

Domestic Cookerij. 

These may be made either with w-ater or cream ; if 
water, two pounds of fruit, a pint of spring water, a pint 
of clarified sugar and the juice of two lemons. 

CUERANT ICE WATER. 

Miss Beecher. 

Press the juice from ripe currants, strain it and put a 
pound of sugar to each pint of juice. Put it into bottles, 
cork and seal it, and keep it in a cool, dry place. When 
wanted, mix with ice-water for a drink or put water with 
it ; make it very sweet and freeze it. Freezing always 
takes away much of the sweetness. The juices of other 
acid fruits can be used in the same way. 

FROSTING. 

Home Messenger. 

To one cupful of sugar, take the white of one egg, 
just cover the sugar with Avater and let it boil without 
stirring until it ropes ; have the egg beaten and when the 
sugar has boiled suffifiently stir into the egg, and con- 
tinue stirring till cool. If boiled too much and the frost- 
ing is inclined to dry before cooling, it can be remedied 
by adding a drop or two of hot water. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

3/r. J. F. Leslie, Kingston. 

One quarter of a pound of wdiite sugar and the whites 
of two eggs. Pour enough water on the sugar to dissolve 
it, then boil until it hangs from the spoon in strings^ 



To Mo.he Icing for Cakes. 397 

Pour it boiling hot on the beaten whites of the eggs and 
stir till nearly cold. Grate the chocolate and have a 
sufficient quantity to give it a dark brown colour. 

ICING FOR FRUIT PIES AND TARTS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

The cooinion mode is to take the white of an eg^ 
whisked to a froth, mixed thickly with pounded sugar 
and laid on with a quill feather. For larger tarts it should 
however be laid on more thickly, and comfits or lemon- 
peel may be stuck into it. 

ALMOND ICING FOR CAKES. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

To every pound of finely pounded loaf sugar allow one 
pound of sweet almonds, the whites of four eggs, a little 
rose-water. Blanch the almonds and pound them (a few 
at a time) in a mortar to a paste, adding a little rose- 
water to hasten the operation. \V hisk the whites of the 
eggs to a strong froth, mix them with the pounded almonds, 
stir in the sugar and beat all together. When your cake 
is sufficiently baked lay on the almond icing, and put it 
in the oven to dry. Before laying this mixture on the 
cake, great care must be taken that it is nice and smooth, 
which is easily accomplished by well beating the mixture. 

TO MAKE ICING FOR CAKES. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Take of the best white sugar one pound and pour over 
it just enough cold water to dlsolve the lumps ; then take 
the whites of three eo;«?3 and beat them a little but not to 
a stiff froth, add these to the sugar and water ; put it in 
a deep bowl, place the bowl in a vessel of boiling water 
and beat the mixture. It will first become clear and thin 



fi98 The Canadia7i Economist, 

and afterwards begin to thicken. When it becomes quite 
thick remove it from the fire, and coikJ:,inue the beating 
until it becomes cold and thick enough, then spread it on 
with a knife. It is perfectly white, glistens beautifully, 
and is so hard and smooth when dry that you might 
write with a pencil on it. 

FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Miss Maggie Bunton, Bradford, Fa. 

Take a teaspoonful of gelatine in one-third of a tea- 
spoonful of boiling water, stir enough of pulverized sugar 
(after the gelatine is well dissolved) to make a thick frost- 
ing, flavour with lemon, it will require but little beating. 
Spread on when the cake is cold. 





CHAPTER XXVII. 
CAKE, COOKIES AND GINGER-BREAD. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Miss Berry, Toronto. 

ONE pound of butter beat to a cream, one pound of 
sugar well mixed into it, nine eggs beat in two at 
a time, one pound of layer raisins stoned, one pound of 
seedless raisins cleaned, one pound and a half of currants, 
one pound of sifted flour, half a pound of mixed peel, 
lemon, citron, orange, half a pound of almonds cut in 
pieces, one teaspoonful of gi-ound cloves, one of black 
pepper, one grated nutmeg, three teapoonsful of allspice, 
three of cinnamon, a little ginger, less than a teaspoonful, 
a little powdered mace, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon, 
one of orange -flower water, a glass of molasses and a 
pinch or two of sal volatile. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Misfi Maud Ben'y. 

Four eggs, one cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, half 
a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, quarter of soda. Flavour 
with lemon. 

FROSTED CAKE. 

Miss Lizzie Berry, Toronto. 

Four eggs, a cupful and a half of sugar, a cupful and 
a half of butter, a cupful of milk, two cupsful of flour 



•iOO The Canadian Economist. 

a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a half teaspoonful of 
saleratus. Flavour with lemon. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Miss Lizzie Berry, Toronto. 

A pound of butter, a pound of sugar, eight eggs, two 
pounds of currants, two pounds of raisins, spice, a pint of 
molasses, two teaspoonsful of saleratus, a pound of citron. 
This makes two loaves. 

prince's cake. 

Miss Maud Berry. 

One coffeecupful of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, 
four teaspoonsful of baking powder, half a pound of stoned 
raisins; tiavour with lemon, six eggs — two broken in at a 
time. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. G. 11 Blyth. 

One cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, three 
eggs beaten separately, half a cupful of milk, three tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, one cupful of flour, half a 
cupful of cornstarch. Put in three tins. When done, 
si)read jelly over, or the following, half a pint of milk, 
half a cupful of sugar, two teaspoonsful of cornstarch. 
Beat eggs, starch and sugar together; stir into the milk. 
Put in tin dish and set in boilin^ water till done. When 
partly cooled flavour with lemOn. 

SXOW CAKE. 

Miss Bell Blyth. 

Three-quarters of a cupful of butter, two cupfuls of 
sugar, one cupful of milk, two cupsful of flour, one cupful 
of corn-starch, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, whites 



Jelly Cake. 401 

of seven eggs well beaten; mix corn-starch, lluur and 
baking-powder together. Add to butter and sugar, alter- 
nately, with milk. Lastl}'^, add whites of eggs ; season 
with lemon. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

M'is8 Booth, Ottawa. 

Four eggs, one cupful of maple sugar, one cupful of Hour ; 
beat whites to a froth and add sugar. Beat yolks and add 
to sugar and whites. Sift in flour as lightly as possible. 

A SMALL SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Breden. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of milk, one egg, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one of soda, butter, size of 
egg; flour. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. Breden. 

For White, one cupful of white sugar, whites of four 
eggs, half a cupful of butter, three-quarters of a tea.spoon- 
ful of soda in half a cupful of sour milk, one and a half 
teaspoonsf ul of cream of tartar mixed into two cupsf ul of 
flour. For Brown — half a cupful of brown sugar, yolks 
of four eggs, half a cupful of mola<ses, half a cupful of 
butter, threequarters of a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
half a cupful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of allspice, one 
of cloves, one of nutmeg ; mix, colour alternately, bake in 
a quick oven. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Bangs. 

Half a cupful of butter, one and a half cupful of sugar, 
two cupfuls of flour, two tea.spoonsful of Cook's Friend, 
four eggs beaten separately, one and a half cupfuls of 
milk. 

26 



402 The Canadian Eeonomld. 

GOLD CAKE, 

Mys. Brown, Ottaiua. 

Yolks of eight eggs, oue cupful of sugar, one cupful of 
butter, half a cupful of milk, one and a half cupsful of 
Hour, one and a half teaspoonsful of baking powder, va- 
nilla flavouring. 

SILVER CAKi:. 

Mrs. Bro^vn, Ottauxi. 

Same as above, only use the whites of the eggs. Flavour 
with lemon. 

SPONGE OAK El. 

Mrs Breckon, Ottawa. 

One cupful of sugar, one of flour, four eggs, two spoons- 
ful of cold water, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, 
flavour to taste. Bake in a slow oven. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Breckon, Ottawa. 

One cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, whites of ten 
eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and half a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Seasoning. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Breckon, Ottawa. 

A pound and a half of sugar, one pound and a half of 
flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, six eggs, one cup- 
ful of sour milk, two teaspoonsful of soda, two pounds of 
raisins, two pounds of currants, half a pound of citron, two 
teaspoonsful of ground cloves, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, take out a cupful of the 
batter before putting in the fruit, then paste it over the 
cake. Bake slowly about three hours. 



Chocolate Ctike. 403 

JELLV CAKE. 

Mis. Bi-eckon, Ottawa. 

Thiee egg>. 'jiie cupful of sugar, one heaping cupful of 
flour, one-third of a cupful of sweet cream, one teaspoon- 
f ul of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, season- 
ing to taste. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Bnptie. 

Three eggs, one cupful of white sugar beaten with the 
Qgg'^- Butter, half the size of an eg^, melted, two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, mix 
in half a cupful of milk, one-half cupful of flour. Bake 
in flat tins. 

SHORT BREAD. 

Mrs. Baptic. 

Half a pound of butter, one-fourth of a pound of white 
sugar, mix until of a creamy consistency ; add as much 
flour as it will take up. Roll half an inch thick. Put 
paper in the bottom of the pan, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

( ilOCULATE CAKE. 

Miss Lily Bain. 

One very full cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, 
three and a half cupsful of flour, one cup not quite full 
of milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half 
a teaspoonful of soda. Beat the yolks of the five egss and 
whites of three separately, very lightly. Put the cream 
of tartar in the flour and the soda in the milk, rub the 
butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, milk and flour, 
pour* the mixture into a large shallow pan. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff 
froth and stir in the sugar (one and a half cupvsful) ; add 



404 The Canadian Economist. 

six tablespoonsful of grated chocolate and the essence of 
vanilla. When the cake is done turn it out and while hot 
put on this icing. When this hardens, a white icing may- 
be put on top. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. {Captain) Cowley. 

Two cupsful of sugar, yolks of five eggs, whites of two 
eggs, half a cupful of cold water, two and a half cupsful 
oi Hour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, the juice and 
grated rind of orange, a pinch of salt, bake in jelly cake 
tins. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add 
seven large spoonsful of powdered sugar and the grated 
rind and juice of one orange. Spread this between the 
layers. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. (Captain) Cowley. 

Four eggs, two cupsful of sugar, half a cupful of cold 
water, two cupsful of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one lemon grated tine, and 
one cupful of white sugar. Spread between the layers. 

COCOA-NUT SPONGE (JAKE, 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. • 

Beat the yolks of six eggs with half a pound of sugar, 
one-quarter pound of flour ; add a teaspoonful of essence 
(»f lemon. Stir in the white of six eggs beaten to a froth, 
add the greated pulp of one cocoa-nut. 

PRUNELLA DROPS, 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One cuj)ful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, one cupful 
of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoons- 



# 



Silver Cake. 40:> 

ful of cream of tartar, flour to make stiff enough to drop 
from the spoon. 

FKUIT CAKE. 

Miss Maggie Carmichael, Bryson. 

Two cupsful of butter, four cupsful of brown sugar 
six pounds of fruit, nine eggs, one and a half teaspoonfu 
of soda, three teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one tiible 
spoonful of nutmeg. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Crannels, Ottawa. 

One cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful oi 
soda, one tea.spoonfuI of vinegar ; mix thoroughly the 
flour, sugar, cream of tartar and soda, then add the eggs 
well l>eaten ; just before putting into the oven add the 
vinegar. 

GOLDEN CAKE. 

Mvs. Crannels, Ottawa. 

One pound of flour di-ied and sifted, one pound of sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, yolks of fourteen 
eggs, yellow part of two lemons grated, and the juice also ; 
beat the sugar and butter to a cream, and add the yolks, 
well beaten ; then add the lemon peel and flour, and a 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water; beat 
it well, and just before putting it into the oven add the 
lemon juice, beating it in very thoroughly. Ice thickly. 

SILVER C.^KE. 

Mrs. Cra.niieh, Ottawa. 

To be used with golden cake. One pound of sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of dried and siftf^d floui;/six 



406 The Canadian Economist. 

ounces of butter, mace and citron, whites of fourteen eggs 
beat the sugar and butter to a cream, add the whites cut 
to a stiff froth and then the flour. 

(JOLD CAKl<;. 

Mrs. (Rev.) M. Campbell, Renfrew. 

One cupful of sugar, three-quarters of a cupful of buttei', 
two cupsful of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder 
mixed dry in flour, half a cupful of sweet milk, essence of 
lemon. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) M. Campbell, Renfrevj. 

Two cupsful fine white sugar, two and a half cupsful 
of flour, three-quarters of a cupful of sweet milk, two 
teaspoonsful of baking powder mixed dry in flour, whites 
of eight eggs ; stir butter and sugar to a cream, add the ^ 
whites, then the flour, lastly milk and lemon. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Deuar. 

One and a quarter pounds of butter, one and a quarter 
pounds of flour, ten eggs, whites of three taken out; add 
tin-ee more yolks, three pounds of currants, three pounds 
of raisins, one and a quarter pound of citron, one table- 
spoonful of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of mace, two nut- 
megs, one gill of molasses. Bake five hours. 

ALABAMA CAKE, 

Mrs. Donaldson. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, half a pound 
of butter, half a pint of milk, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, flavour to taste ; beat the whites and yolks sepa- 
rately, mix in the sugar, milk and butter, putting in the 
flour last. 



Wedding Cake. 4-07 

SPOX(JE CAKE. 

Mrs. James Dalgliesh. 

Four eggs, two cupsful of sugar, one and a half cupsful 
of flour, half a cupful of warm water, half a teaspoonful 
of Cook's Friend. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. James Dalgliesh, 

One cupful of white sugar, half a cupful of milk, scant 
half a cupful of butter, one cupful and a half of flour, a 
teaspoonful of baking powder, whites of three eggs ; beat 
sugar and butter together, put in whites of eggs well 
beaten. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. James Dalgliesh. 

Four cupsful of flour, three cupsfuls of sugar, one cup- 
ful of butter, one pint of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. 

A NICE FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Donnely, Ironsides. 

Half a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, one pound 
of raisins, one pound of currants, half a pound of sugar, 
spices to taste, six eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Mrs Thos. Driimviond, Kingston. 

Two pounds of Hour (pastiy), two pounds of brown 
sugar, two pounds of butter, two pounds of currants, four 
pounds of raisins, three pounds of mixed peel, one coffee- 
cupful of molas«es, one pound of almonds, blanched and 
sliced lengthways ; two dozen of eggs, two ounces of 



408 The Canadian Economist. 

mixed spices ; mix sugar and butter together with hand, 
then break and drop in eggs, then the s[)ice and then the 
molasses, then fruit and flour alternately, and after all is 
in, put in more flour. Sometimes it requires another 
pound according to the size of eggs and quantity of flour, 
the person who mixes has to judge. Paper and butter well 
the pans you put it in ; to bake it is best done in a baker's 
oven. 

, CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Thos. Drummond, Kingston. 

One package of corn starch, one pound of white crushed 
sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, ten eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half-a-teaspoonful of soda, 
flavouring to taste. First beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, then add yolks, well beaten, next starch and w' hiten 
alternately. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss Durie, Ottaiva. 

One pound of crushed sugar ; break yolks of eight eggs 
on sugar. Beat very light, then add the juice of one 
lemon, whites of eggs beaten to a very stiff froth, half a 
pound of sifted flour, with one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, well mixed through the flour. Bake about half an 
hour, 

DOLLY YARD EN CAKE. 

Mrs. Drysdale, Ottaiva. 

Tw^o cupsful of white sugar, two-thirds of a cupful of 
butter, three cupsful of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half an 
ounce of soda. Take half of this mixture, and add to it 
one cupful of raisins, chopped fine, one cupful of currants, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
one teaspoonful of nutmeg. Bake each mixture in two 



Marble Cah. 40ft 

shallow pans, when done put together alternately with a 
little jelly. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD, 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, quarter of a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, a few strips of candied lemon 
peel ; beat the butter to a cream, dredge in the flour, and 
add the sugar, work the paste till it is quite smooth, and 
divide it into six pieces. Put each cake on a separate 
piece of paper, and roll them out square to the thickness 
of about an inch, pinch it all round, ornament with a few 
strips of peel, and bake in a good oven. 

JELLY SANDWICH. 

Miss Barbara Griey, Sauth Georgetovjn. 

One cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, two table- 
spoonsful of milk, two tablespoonsful of melted butter, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half 
t«aspoonful of soda. Flavour with lemon. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. J. M. Garland. 

Beat two eggs in a cup, fill the cup with cream ; one 
cupful of white sugar, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful 
of leaking powder, 

MARBLE CAKE, 

Mrs. R. Fraser, Westraeath. 

White part — Whites of four eggs, one cupful of white 
sugar, a small cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of 
soda, flavour to taste, with lemon. Brown part — Yolks 



410 The Canadian Economist. 

of four eggs, one cupful of brown sugar, one cupful of 
sweet milk, a small cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda, nutmeg, cloves, four cupsful of flour. 

COCOA CAKE. 

Miss Hopkirk, Ottawa. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful and a half of buttei-, 
one cupful and a half of flour, one egg and a half, two 
teaspoonsful and a half of the Cook's Friend, one cupful 
of milk, flavour to taste; four tablespoonsful of cocoa, 
boiled in one tablespoonful of milk, whites of three eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, sugar and a little com starch to 
stiffen. Add the cocoa, beat all together. Cover each 
cake with a layer and sprinkle a little dry over each. 
Frost the top. 

ORANGE CAKE (DELICIOUS.) 

Miss Harmon, Ottavm. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, one pound 
of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, six eggs, two spoonsful 
of baking-powder, one orajige. Frosting — To the wdiite of 
three eggs add twenty-four teaspoonsful of pulverized 
sugar, and the grated rind and half the juice of the orange. 
Bake cake in layers and put the frosting between each 
layer. This Avill make enough filling for one loaf of cake. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Hutchinson, Ottawa. 

' Three cupsful of flour, two cupsful of sugar, half a cup- 
ful of water that has been boiled and cooled. Five efjjjs, 
whites of four, yolks of five, beaten separately, grated 
rind and juice of one orange, half a teas])oonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Bake in jelly tins. 
Icing for centre. — Beat the white of two eggs to a stiflT 
froth, stir in sugar enough to make a stiff" icing with the 
grated rind and juice of the orange. 



sponge Cake. 411 

NEW year's pound CAKE. 

Mrs. G. W. Hutch'nison. 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, one dozen eggs, half 
a pound of mixed peel, half a pound of blanched almonds, 
one pound and a quarter of flour, two spoonsful of baking- 
powder. 

NEW year's fruit CAKP. 

Mrs. G. W. Hutchinson. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, twelve eggs, 
one pound and a half of flower, two tablespoonsful of 
baking-powder, two povmds of raisins, two pounds of cur- 
rants, half a pound of blanched almonds, half a pound of 
mixed peel, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, a little ground 
mace, one glassful of sweet cider. 

JELLY CAKE, 

Mrs. G. W. Hutchinson. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one cupful of sugar, four 
tablespoonsful of milk, two teaspoonsful of baking-pow- 
der, three eggs, one large cupful of flour. Butter round 
tins, and bake in a quick oven. When cool put jelly be- 
tween the layers. 

corn starch cake. 

Miss M. M. Hutchinson. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cup- 
ful of sweet milk, one cupful of flour, half a cupful of 
corn-starch, tw o teaspoonsful of baking-powder, the whites 
of four egi^s, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix in the ecjcjs last. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss M. M. Hutchinson. 

One pound of white sugar, good half pound of flour, and 
nine eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Beat the 



412 TJic Canadian Economist. 

yolks light, then add the sugar. Mix all together, do not 
beat after mixing in the flour. Bake in pans papered and 
well buttered. 

FIG CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Hutchinson, Ottawa. 

Three eggs, half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of 
milk, one cupful and a half of sugar, two cupsful and a 
half of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two cupsful of cream 
of tartar. Beat butter and sugar together. Have a layer 
of figs chopped fine, and put between the layers the same 
as jelly. 

EXCELLENT CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Hutchinson, Ottawa. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, three cups- 
ful of flour, four eggs, one cupful of milk, one teaspoonful 
of soda, two of cream of tartar or three of baking powder. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Mrs. G. S. Hobart, Kingston. 

Take three eggs and whip separately, one coffeecupfu 
of sugar, same of flour, to which add two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, moisten with a little milk. This makes 
enough for three shallow pans' filling. Grate an apple, 
which sw^eeten and flavour, then spread between the 
layers. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Johnstone. 

Two cupsful of sifted flour, two of powdered sugar 
four well-beaten eggs, w^hites and yolks beaten separately' 
half a teacupful of cold water, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar sifted in the flour, two teaspoonsful of baking 
powder ; flavour with the juice and grated rind of half a 
lemon, and bake twenty minutes in shallow tins. 



A Much Admired Cocoa-nut Cake. 413 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss Junor, St. Marys. 

One small cupful of sifted flour, one the same size of 
sugar, an eyen teaspoonful of baking powder ; mix all to- 
irether and add the beaten volks and whites of three 
eggs. 

PEACH CAKE. 

Miss Junor, St. Marys. 

Bake three layei-s of sponge cake, cut ripe peaches in 
thin slices, prepare some sweet whipped cream and flavour 
it, spread tlie peaches with the cream, pound over between 
each layer, as also over the top of the cake. 

LADY FINGERS. 

2[rs. Johnstone. 

Ill (jiie j>ound of powdered sugar break eleven eggs, and 
beat together until very light, then add one pound of 
sifted flour, stirring in very lightly ; butter some sheets 
of paper, put the butter through a pipe made for the pur- 
pose (or a paper funnel) on to the paper in cakes three 
inches long and very narrow ; sift some powdered sugar 
over the top, and bake in rather a quick oven ; when cold 
remove them from the paper by whetting the back of the 
paper with cold water. 

A MUCH ADMIRED COCOA-NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Kennedy, Owen Sound. 

Four eggs, two cupsful of sugar, two cupsful of flour, 
a little salt ; mix altogether. Then add two teaspoonsful 
of baking powder, then pour in three-quarters of a cup- 
ful of boiling water last, and mix ; needs three or four 
jelly -cake tins to bake. While they are baking, mix for 



414 The Canadian Economist. 

icing the wliite of one egg and enough sugar to make 
stiff, and spread over the cakes, and sprinkle cocoa-nut on 
each layer of cake. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Miss Leslie, Kingston. 

'I'hree-quarters of a pound of butter, three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar, eight eggs, one package of corn-starch, 
half a cupful of fine flour, in which has been well mixed 
three teaspoonsful of baking powder (Cook's Friend). Beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream. First add the yolks, 
well beaten, then the starch, last the whites, beaten to a 
stiff frotli. 

.lELLY CAKK. 

Miss 'Sarah Laiiahaa, Offatua. 

One teacupful of sugar, one tablespoonf ul of butter, two 
eggs, half a teacupful of milk, two teacupsf ul of flour, one 
and a half teaspoonful of baking powder ; bake in three 
jelly-cake tins. When cold, spread thin laj^ers of jelly or 
jam between. 

LEMON-JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. E. W. Low, Kingston. 

One lemon, grated, one cupful of brown sugar, one egg, 
one apple, grated ; mix all together and boil tive nfinutes, 
and put it on the cake while hot. Ice top of it or not, as you 
])]ease. To make the cake : — Take half a pound of sifted 
Avhite sugar, six ounces of butter,eight eggs (whites beat to 
a stiff froth, yolks beat and strainedj, juice and grated rind 
of one lemon, one pound of dried and sifted flour. Work 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, then the 
flour, and then the lemon-juice. Butter tin and scalloped 
pans, and put in this quarter of an inch tiiick. Bake a 
light brown, and pile them in layers with the jelly 
between. 



Lemon Cake. 415 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Miss McKinnon. 

The whites of eight eggs, two cupsf ul of sugar, two cups- 
f ul of sifted flour, one cupful of corn starch, one cupful of 
butter, one cupful of milk, two teaspoonsful of baking pow- 
der, flavour with lemon. Bake in thin laj-ei-s and add the 
following preparation between the cakes: The whites of 
four eggs.four cupsfulof sugar ; pour boiling water over the 
sugar, boil hard until clear and candied ; pour the boiling 
hot sugar over the eggs, .stirring until a rich cream ; van- 
illa flavouiing. When cold spread the icing between the 
cakes. 

LIGHT SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss A. McLaren, Pcrrtuge Da Fort. 

Six ecfss, the weight of the ejjffs in white suojar, half 
their weight in flour ; flavour with lemon. Beat the eggs 
separately for half an hour ; add sugar with yolks, and 
lastly the whites ; bake half an hour. With the addition 
of icing it is famous. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Miss McTaggaH, New Edinburgh. 

Three eggs, one cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of butter, two tablespobnfuls of milk, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Miss McQaurrie. 

Three cupsful of powdered white sugar, one cupful of 
butter, one cupful of milk, five eggs, four cupsful of flour ; 
beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; beat the eggs separ- 
ately ; the. whites to a stiff" froth ; then dissolve a little 
soda in the milk ; mix all together, then sift the flour, and 



410 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

stir in by degrees ; add the juice and grated rind of a le- 
mon. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. B. Mc Arthur, Carleton Place. 

A cupful of brown sugar, one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful of molasses, one cupful of milk, three cupsful of flour, 
four eggs, one-half teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one pound of raisins, chopped fine, 
one pound of currants. Blake in a slow oven. 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. W, B. McArthur, Carleton Place. 

Seven eggs, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of flour, two pounds of currants, two pounds 
of raisins, half-pound of lemon peel,two tablespoonfuls of 
baking powder, half a cupful of milk ; flavouring. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Miss McTavish, Osgood^. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
flour, two pounds of currants, one pound and a half of 
raisins, ten eggs, one-quarter of a pound of lemon peel, 
one nutmeg, three parts of a cup of molasses. Bake four 
hours in a moderate ov$n. 

LADY CAKE. 

Miss McTavish, Osgoode. 

Beat to a stifl' froth eight eggs, then add one spoonful 
at a time, one pound of powdered loaf sugar, beat to a 
cream one-quarter of a pound of butter and add to it one 
teacupf ul of sweet milk and a teaspoonful of soda. Stir 
the eggs in the milk and butter and sift in enough flour 
to make a batter, as thick as a pound-cake. It will re- 



Stravjhei'ry Shcn't Cake. 417 

quire half an hour to bake in a quick oven. When nearly 
cold ice on the under side. When the icing becomes firm 
mark in small squares. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss McNachtan, Cohourg. 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful of sweet 
milk, two cupsful of flour, three teaspoonsful of baking 
powder, one teaspoonf ul of flavouring. 

YELLOW LILY CAKE. 

Miss McTavish, Osgoode. 

The yolks of six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, three cups- 
ful of flour, half a cupful of sweet milk, three-quarters of 
a cupful of butter, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, 
and one of soda. 

SURPRISE CAKE. 

Miss McTavish, Osgoode. 

One egg, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, 
one cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonsful of cream of tartar. Flavour with lemon 
and use suflicient sifted flour to make an ordinary stiff 
batter. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE 

Miss Bajcter McEwen, Ingersoll. 

One quai-t of flour, five teaspoonsful of baking powder. 
Mix the powder well in the flour, with a little salt and 
two tablespoonsful of sour cream if you have it, if not 
one tablespoonful of butter. Mix with sweet milk. Mix 
as soft as you can, roll out and cut. When baked split 
and butter, have the strawberries or any other fruit 
bruised with sugar and lay in between. 

27 



418 The Canadian Economist. 

SUGAE CAKE. 

Miss McTavish, Osgoode. 

Seven eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately, then 
beat them well together, add one pound of sifted white 
sugar, half a pound of melted butter and a teaspoonful of 
pulverized anmionia. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. {Rev) J. McEvjen, IngerscU. 

Ten eggs, one pound of white sugar, one ounce of flour. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, about twenty 
minvites, then gradually stir in the flour and the whites 
of the eggs. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. T. M. McVeigh, Bryson. 

One pound of currants, one pound of raisins, one cup- 
ful of butter, beaten to a cream, one large cupful of brown 
sugar, one cupful of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two of cream of tartar. Essence of cinnamon, lemon, 
or nutmeg. Sufticient flour to make a thick batter. 

GOLDEN CAKE. 

3Iiss McRae, Renfrew. 

Take the yolks of four eggs, two cupsful of sugar, one 
half-cupful of cream, one halt-cupful butter ; mix well to- 
gether, and add three cupsful of flour with one teaspoon- 
fulof soda and two of cream of tartar. Mix some cunants 
and citron pee], flour and bake in a slow oven. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Miss McRae, Renfrew. 

Take the white of four eggs, one half-cupful of butter, 
one half- cupful of cream, two cupsful of sugar; mix well 



Royal Fruit Cake. 419 

together, flavour and then mix in two cupsful of flour, 
with two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, and half a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Bake in a moderate oven. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss McRae, Renfrew. 

Take four cupsful offlour, three cupsful of white sugai', 
one cupful of cold watei", six eggs, one lemon, two teaspoons- 
ful of cream of tartar, and one of soda. First beat the 
eggs two minutes, then put in the sugar and beat live 
minutes more, then stir in the cream of tartar and two 
cupsful of flour, and beat one minute. Now dissolve the 
soda in the water and stir in, having grated in the rind 
of the lemon. Squeeze in half the juice and add the other 
two cupsful of flour and beat all one minute, then put 
into deep pans and bake in a moderate oven, 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Miss McRae, Renfrew. 

Beat the yolks of .six eggs, and a cuj)ful of sugar. Whip 
the whites to a stifl" froth, add to the rest and then stir in 
one cupful of flour, with two teaspoonsful of cream of tar- 
tar, and half a teaspoonful of soda. Flavour with lemon, 
and bake in a quick oven. Have ready the whites of two 
eggs well beaten. Ice your cakes and cover with cocoa- 
nut. 

ROYAL FKUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Five cupsful of flour, five eggs, one and a half cupsful of 
sugar, one cupful of molasses, one and a half cupsful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one half a cupful of 
milk, two pounds of chopped raisins, three pounds of 
currants, one and one half pound of citron, two tea- 
spoonsful of cinnamon, one nutmeg, two tablespoonsful 
of cloves. This is a splendid receipt. 



420 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

LADY CAKE. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

The ingredients are : the whites of sixteen eggs, half 
a pound of fresh butter, three-quarters of a pound of 
sifted flour, one pound of powdered white sugar, two 
ounces of bitter almonds, and three winegiassfuls of rose- 
water. Blanch two full ounces of bitter almonds, then 
throw into a bowl of cold water and let them be awhile ; 
afterward take them out, wipe them in a clean cloth and 
pound them one at a time in a jnortar, pouring on each 
of them a little rosewater, when sufficiently done, set 
them in a cool place. It is best to prepare them the day 
before you make up your cake, and put plenty of rose- 
water with them. Having powdered your sugar, put it 
into a deep pan ; cut your butter into it, and set it where 
it will soon get warm; then stir the butter and sugar to- 
gether, until they become quite light, and then add the 
pounded almonds, stirring in a little at a time ; beat the 
whole together, and set it in a cool place, while you are 
sifting your flour and beating the whites of sixteen eggs. 
It is most convenient to divide the eggs, putting eight 
whites, each in two separate pans. Beat the whites until 
they stand alone, and then stir them hard into the pan 
containing the butter, sugar, and almonds, alternately 
with the flour. When all the ingredients are mixed in, 
stir the whole very hard ; have ready a tin pan well but- 
tered, put in the mixture and set it immediately into the 
oven. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Ingredients : Two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, 
a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, half an ounce 
of cavraway seeds, one ounce of sweet almonds and a few 
strifis of candied orange peel. Beat the butter to a cream, 
gradually dredge in the flour, and add the sugar, carra- 



Corn Starch Cake, 421 

way seeds and sweet almonds, which should be blanched 
and cut into small pieces ; work the paste until it is quite 
smooth, and divide it into six pieces. Put each cake on a 
separate piece of paper, roll the paste out square, to the 
thickness of about an inch, and pinch it on all sides. 
Prick it well, and ornament it with one or two strips of 
candied orange peel ; put the cakes into a good oven, and 
bake them from twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

PLUM CAKE. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of currants, 
two ounces of candied lemon peel, half a pint of milk, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Put the flour into a basin 
with the sugar, currants and sliced candied peel ; beat the 
butter to a oreain and mix all the ingredients together 
with the milk ; beat the whole well until everything is 
thoroughly mixed ; put the dough into a buttered tiu and 
bake the cake from one and a half to two hours. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Mutchmore, Ottawa, Kansas. 

Three and a quarter cupsful of butter, two cupsful of 
sugar, three eggs and the whites of six, one cupful of 
sweet milk, four cupsful of sifted flour, three teaspoonsful 
of baking powder ; flavour with lemon, or to taste. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Perley, Ottawa. 

Eight ounces of butter beaten to a cream, ten ounces o^* 
white sugar added and beaten, six eggs broken and stirred 
in one at a time, one package of corn starch and a heaping 
teaspoonful of Cook's Friend, flavour to taste and bake 
one hour. 



422 The Canadian Economist. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Perley, Ottawa. 

Ten eggs, ten ounces of flour, one pound of sugar, the 
juice and grated rind of lemon, very nice and will keep 
as long as pound cake. 

MRS. Owen's cake. 

Mrs. Parr, Ottaiva. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, four eggs> 
one cupful of warm water, four cupsful of flour, four tea- 
spoonsful of Cook's Friend. 

SNOWBALL CAKE. 

Mrs. Rowe, Winnipeg. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, one-half 
cupful of sweet milk, two cupsful of flour, the whites of 
three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonfux 
of cream of tartar sifted with the flour ; beat the butter 
and sugar together, add the whites of eggs beaten to a 
thick foam, then the flour. Essence of lemon to flavour. 

CORN starch CAKE. 

Mrs. Rowe, Winnipeg. 

Three and one-quarter pounds of butter, the same of 
sugar, eight eggs, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs^ Rowe, Winnipeg. 

The weight of six eggs of sugar, and the weight of four 
of flour, a little salt and six eggs, and flavour to taste. 
!Peat the whites and ^-olks separately. Beat the whites 



Fruit Cake. 423 

and sugar together first, then put in the yolks and the 
flour last. Never beat much after the flour is added. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss Robertson, Thorold, 

Three eggs well beaten, one cupful of white sugar, one 
cupful of flour, two tablespoonsful of water, three tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder. Bake in a quick oven. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Miss RobeHson, Thorold. 

Four eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, two 
tablespoonsful of cold water, one tablaspoonf ul of baking 
soda and two of cream of tartar. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa. 

One teacupful of sugar, one-half teacupful of butter 
beaten to a cream, one coffeeeupful of flour, four eggs 
beaten .separately, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Bake in jelly tins. 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottavxi. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, ten ounces of 
butter, ten eggs, beaten separately ; a little nutmeg, no 
soda. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, beaten to a 
cream, one pound of flour, twelve eggs, beaten separately ; 
two pounils of currants, two ounces of raisins, half-pound 



424 The Canadian Economist 

of citron, half-pound of almonds, two nutmegs, two tea- 
spoonsful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, two 
tablespoonsful of sugar. 

RAILEOAD CAKE. 

Miss lAllie Ross, Kingston. 

One cupful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of butter, beat 
together ; two tablespoonsful of milk, three eggs, beat to- 
gether ; one cupful of flour, with two heaping teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder. Mix and flavour. Use a little 
salt. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Miss Lillie Ross, Kingston. 

Break two eggs in a cup and fill the cup with cream, 
one cupful of sugar, two teaspoon sful of cream of tartar, 
and one teaspoonful of soda, mixed in a little water, one 
cupful of flour. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Miss Lillie Ross, Kingston. 

Half a pound of butter and sugar, one pound of raisins 
and currants, one-quarter of a pound of citron and lemon- 
peel, one teaspoonful of cloves, cinnamon, allspice and 
nutmeg, five eggs, half a pound of flour, two teaspoonsful 
of baking powder. Mix the butter and sugar to a cream 
with the hand. Break in the eggs one by one, then add 
t'le fruit, spices and flour. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Rc8i, Kingston, 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, thrre eggs, 
half a cupful of sweet milk, one pound and a-half of flour, 
three teaspoonsful of baking powder. Flavour as you 
please. Bake in a quick oven. 



Pound Cake. 425 

CITKok CAKE. 

Miss Lillie Hoss, Kingston. 

Half a pound of butter and sugar, five eggs, a quarter 
of a pound of citron-peel, three-quarters of a pound of 
Hour. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Smith. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, six eggs, 
one cupful of milk, three teaspoonsful of Cook's Friend, 
one pound of flour. Bake in jell}' cake tins. Mixture for 
filling : Whites of three eggs, one and a half cup of pulver- 
ized sugar, three tablespoon sful of gi'ated cocoa, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla ; beat well together, spread between 
the layers and on top of cake. 

MOLASSES CAKE, 

Mrs. Smith. 

Two cupsf ul of molasses, two small teaspoonsful of soda ; 
stir into the molasses, until it is thick and foaming, one 
quart of flour, one and a half cupful of warm water in 
which half a cupful of butter has dissolved, then add one 
teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of cloves, two tea- 
spoonsful of cinnamon, and two teaspoonsful of ginger. 
Use paper in the pans and bake in three cakes. 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. J. K. StewaH. 

One pound of flour, eight eggs, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of butter, one pound of currants, one pound of rai- 
sins, quarter of a pound of almonds, four pieces of lemon 
peel, half a cupful of molasses, two tablespoonsful of 
mixed spice, three spoonsful of baking powder. 



426 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottaiva. 

Half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, one 
pound of raisins, one pound of cun-ants, half a pound of 
flour, two ounces of lemon peel, six eggs, spice to taste. 

SHORT BREAD. 

3Irs. A. Scott, Ottaiua. 

One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of sugar, half a 
pound of butter. Rub all well together, and roll out in 
cakes. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottaiva. 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, six eggs. 
Beat up eggs well, add sugar and flour. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mi's. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Two cupsful of sugar, two cupfuls of flour, five yolks 
of eggs, one and a half teaspoonsful of baking powder, 
half a teacupful of water, boiled and cold, one orange 
grated, rind and juice, — frosting for same, white of one 
egg, one orange grated, rind and juice, ground sugar. 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, four eggs, 
three cupsful of flour, one cupful of milk, four teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder (Cook's Friend). Mix butter and 
sugar, add yolks of eggs well beaten, then the whites well 
beaten, then milk, mix baking powder with flour sifted, 
cuBrants if required. 



Fruit Cake. 427 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs Stewart, .ICeiv Yoi'k 

To three well beaten eggs, add one cupful of powdered 
sugar, one cupful of flour, stir well and add one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of saleratus 
dissolved in three teaspoonsful of water. Bake in two 
shallow pans. Spread as even as possible, have ready a 
greased paper, and as soon as done turn the cake on it, 
bottom side up, then spread evenly with jelly. Roll up 
quickly, and leave the paper round it until cool, 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Smith, Bryson. 

One cupful of white sugar, one cupful of flour, three 
eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda, a teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar dissolved in four teaspoonsful of cream, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon. Mix them together, and bake in jelly- 
tius, in a quick oven. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 

Miss Thompson, Renfrew. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, three ounces 
of white sugar; mix well the flour and sugar, which you 
must gradually and thoroughly work into the butter ; 
when you have worked it smooth, roll out and pinch 
round the edges. Put some carraway comfits on the top. 
Bake in a very slow oven. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Miss Thomson, Renfrew. 

Five eggs, five cupsful of flour, two and a half cupsful 
of sugar, one and a half cupsful of butter and two cups- 
ful of sour milk, two cupsful of raisins ; beat butter and 
sugar to a cream, add the eggs, yolks and whites beaten 



428 The Canadian Economist. 

separately ; then three cupsful of the flour and the milk ; 
beat well, and then add one gill of molasses cloves and 
cinnamon to suit your taste, and the remainder of the 
flour ; and last, one teaspoonful of soda. Bake as soon 
as put together. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

Take four eggs and a cupful of sugar and beat well ; 
then add a cupful of flour, a teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, half a teaspoonful of soda, flavour with lemon, and 
bake in a quick oven. Spread with jelly and eat as soon 
as taken from the oven. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 

Mrs. James Thonwon. 

Four pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, one pound 
of sugar, one pound of ground rice, lemon peel to suit 
taste. 

LARGE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, and eight 
eggs. Beat the whites and yolks separately. 

ROLLED SANDWICH. 

Mrs. James Thompson. 

Quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of 
flour, four eggs and a little soda. 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, ten 
ounces of flour, six eggs and a little soda. 



Lemon Cake. • 429 

FRUIT CAKK (GOOD). 

Mt8. James TlioTnson. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, ten eggs, one 
and a quarter pounds of flour, one pound and two ounces 
of raisins, one pound and two ounces of currants, one and 
a half ounces of peel, half an ounce of peel, half an 
ounce of nutmeg, one teaspoonful of mixed spices. 

ICED SANDWICH. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, ten eggs, one 
and a quarter pounds of flour. 

PRINCESS CAKE. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, ten eggs, one 
and a quarter pounds of flour, half a pound of large 
i-aisins or lemon peel instead. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Miss Urquhart, Perth. 

Grate the rind of one large or two small lemons, squeeze 
the juice and add one cupful of sugar, and one egg, well 
beaten, also a small piece of butter. Boil until pretty 
thick, and set away to cooL For the cake, take three 
eggs, beat very lightly, add one cupful of sugar, one and 
a half cupsful of flour, with two teaspoonsful of cream 
of tartar and one ounce of soda rubbed in, half a cupful 
of milk. Bake in well-buttered jelly- cake tins. When 
the lemon mixture and the cakes are quite cold, spread 
the lemon between the layei-s of cake. For icing for the 
top, take the white of one egg, beat very lightly, mix in 
one cupful of sugar, and flavour with lemon and beat 



430 The Canadian Economist. 

until smootli. Oranges instead of lemons may be used, 
and an orange cake made. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mt8. {Rev. D) Wavdrope, Teeswater. 

Three-qarters of a pound of butter, one pound of white 
sugar, sixteen eggs, three pounds of currants, waslied and 
dried, half a pound of citron peel, one and a half pounds 
of flour, two nutmegs, a teaspoonful of soda bruised, work 
the butter to a cream, then add the sugar. Work these 
together till very light. This is the hardest part of the 
mixing. Then add the eggs, two at a time, it is not ne- 
cessary to beat them. Have the flour, fruit, spice, etc., 
all mixed together dry in another vessel, and add by de- 
grees to the mixture. Bake in a slow oven. 

ORAKGE CAKE. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Four eggs, save out whites of two, one and a half cups- 
ful of sugar, half a cupful of watei', one and a half cups- 
ful of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, flavour 
to taste. For filling the same, beat the whites of eggs to 
a stiff froth, add juice and grated rind of one orange, 
three tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, mix all together^ 
and spread between the layers. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Fa. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, quarter of 
a pound of sugar, yolk of one egg ; place the flour in a 
bowl, add the butter and sugar, mix well, add the egg, 
mix firmly ; fold a paper square and place the dough on 
it ; roll it lightly to have it square, half an inch thick ; 
prick it over wdth a fork and press it with fingers round 
the edge, place it on a baking tin ; bake in a quick oven 
fifteen minutes. 



. SeedCal-e. 431 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of but- 
ter, eight eggs, one pound of tiour, one pound of raisins, 
one pound of currants, two nutmegs. 

CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. WhithecJc, Ottawa. 

Three eupsful of flour, two and a half cupsful of brown 
sugar, half a cupful of butter, three eggs, one and a half 
cupsful of milk, two and a half teaspoonsful of baking 
powder, half a nutmeg. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. WilliaTns, Chaudilre. 

Half a pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, iive eggs, 
one pound of flour, flavour, bake in three tins. 

CHEAP FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

One cupful of brown sugar, half a cupful of butter, 
half a cupful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
eggs, one cupful of fruit, spice-s. 

SEED CAKE. 

Mrs. James Yoimg, Gait. 

One heaping cupful of sugar, two cupsful of flour, three- 
quarters of a cupful of butter, and three eggs, beat sugar 
and butter together with yolks of eggs, then add the 
whites beaten to a stifi' froth, half a cupful of sweet milk, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of 
soda mixed with the flour. 



432 The Canadian Economiist. 

WHITE WEDDING CAKE, 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudi'ere. 

One and a half cupsful of potato starch, two cupsful of 
sugar, one cupful sweet cream, one teaspoonful of cream 
of taitar, half a teaspoonful of soda, whites of eight eggs, 
one and a half cupsful of flour. 

RATAFIAS. 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, half a pound of bitter 
almonds, two pounds of sugar, the whites of ten or twelve 
eggs. Mix as for almond cakes ; drop them on whited brown 
paper half the size of a nutmeg, see they are all of a size ; 
bake on iron sheets in a slow oven. When cold they can 
be taken from the paper. 

NICE COOKIES. 

Mrs. Alloivay, Winnipeg. 

Two eggs, one cupful of melted butter, one ounce of 
sugar, a teaspoonful and a half of baking powder, and 
flour enough to make a dough. Roll thin and bake 
quickly. 

COOKIES. 

Miss Sarah Lanahom. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, one egg, flour 
enough to roll, flavour with nutmeg. Roll very thin. 
Cut with a round cutter. Bake in a quick oven. 

NUMBER ONE COOKIES. 

Mrs. Kennedy, Owen Sound. 

One egg beaten, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, one 
cupful of butter melted, one cupful and a half of sugar ; 
mix and add five cupsful of flour ; when mixed take half 
the quantity of dough and then mix in carraway seeds, so 



Cookies. 433 

that you have caiTaway cookies and plain ; roll out verj' 
thin and cut with a round or fancy cutter, according to 
taste. 

RATAFIA COOKIES. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, quarter of a 
cupful of milk, two eggs well beaten, two cupfuls and a 
half of Hour with a teaspoonful and a half of baking- 
powder. Mix together, roll out very thin, cut into small 
cakes, wet over the top with ratafia. Dust over a little 
white sugar and bake. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. H. Mat Iter. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of sweet milk, two spoonsful of baking powder, just flour 
enough to roll. Rub butter and sugar into the dry flour, 
and then wet up. Spice to suit the taste. Be Ciireful not 
to use too much flour ; more can easily be added if not 
stiff enough. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Mrs. (Rev. J.) McEiven, Ingersoll. 

Two coffeecupsful of molasses, two cupsful of butter 
one tablespoonful of soda, one cupful of sweet milk, one 
and a half cupsful of flour, half a teaspoonful of alum, 
half a cupful of boiling water, one spoonful of ginger. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. McQuarne. 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful and a half of 
butter, mixed with the flour, five cupfuls of flour, a tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar mixed with the flour, a nut- 
meg and half a teaspoonful of soda. Wet with as small 
a quantity of milk as possible. 
28 



434 The Canadian Economist. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. A. McKellar, Ottaiua. 

One cupful of thick sweet cream, one cupful of sugar, 
(quarter of a, teaspoonful of soda, half a teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, a little salt, essence of lemon, carraways, 
tlour enough to roll out thin, half a cupful of sweet milk, 
and half a cupful of butter will do if cream cannot be got. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. Parr, Ottawa. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, four eggs, 
one large teaspoonful of Cook's Friend. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. Bay, Ottawa. 

One coffeecupful of sugar, one teacupful of butter, two 
ep'gs, one tablespoonful of sour cream, small teaspoonful 
of soda. Flavour with lemon. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Five cupsful of flour, one cupful and a half of sugai", 
one cupful of butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, half a cupful of water ; roll out thin and cut out. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. Thompson, Point Fortune, Que. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful and two-thirds of sugar, 
two eggs, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, the latter dissolved in a little milk. 
Season with a little mace or ground allspice. Flour 
enough to allow of being rolled out. Roll out thin and 
cut into thin cakes. Bake in a quick oven. 



Carravjay Ginger-hread. 435 

C«X>KIES. 

J[Iiss Robeii-son, Ottawa. 

One quart of tlour, one cupful of lard, two eggs, one 
cupful of sugar, two teaspoonsful of baking powder and a 
little salt, dissolve the powder in a quarter-cupful of sweet 
milk ; work all together and roll them. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. W. Taylor. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful 
of sweet milk, half a teaspoonful of soda. Mix to a soft 
dough. Roll thin and bake quickly. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. (Rev.) D. Wardrape, Teeswater. 

A small cupful of butter, one large cupful of white sugar, 
one small cupful of sweet milk, two eggs, three teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder, and flour sufficient to make a soft 
dough. Put butter into flour, then add sugar, then the 
eggs well beaten, then the milk. Put baking powder in 
the dry flour before beginning to mix. 

CARRAWAY GINGER-BREAD. 

Miss Elliott, Gu£lph. 

Cut up half a pound of fresh butter in a pint of treacle, 
and warm them together slightly, till the butter is quite 
soft. Then stir them well and add gradually half a 
pound of good brown sugar, a tablespoonf ul of powdered 
cinnamon, and two tablespoonsful of ground ginger, or 
three if the ginger is not very strong. Sift two pounds 
or two quarts of flour. Beat four eggs till very thick and 
light, and stir them gradual!}' into the mixture, in turn 
with the flour, and five or six large tablespoonsful of 



436 The Canadian Economist. 

caiTaway seeds, a little at a time. Dissolve a very small 
teaspoonful of soda in as much lukewarm water as will 
cover it. Then stir in at the last. Stir all very hard. 
Transfer it to a buttered tin pan with straight sides, and 
bake it in a loaf in a moderate oven. It will require a 
great deal of baking. 

CHARCOAL GINGER CAKE. 

A. Baldtvin, Esq., Ottawa. 

Half a cupful of butter or dripping, half a cupful of 
molasses, one cupful of brown sugar, half a cupful of water, 
half a teaspoonful of ginger, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
two teaspoonsful of pulverized charcoal, flour enough to 
roll. Cut into shape with a cake-cutter. 

GINGER CAKE. 

Miss J. N. Carmichael, Bryson. 

Half a cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, large cup- 
ful of cream, two cupsful of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one of cream of tartar, three of ginger. Bake in a 
bread pan. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Miss J. N. Carmichael, Bryson. 

One ])int of molasses, one half coffeecupful of sugar, 
some lard or butter, half a cupful of water, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Roll and 
cut out and bake quickly. 

SOFT GINGER-BREAD. 

Miss J. K. Carmichael, Bryson. 

Five cupsful of flour, three cupsful of njolasses, one cup- 
ful of butter, one cupful of milk, two teaspoonsful of 
ginger, one teaspoonful of soda, three eggs ; pour into a 
pan and bake slowly. 



Ginger-bread, 4-37 

SOFT GINGER -BREAD. 

Mrs. DonoMsfon. 

One teacupful of butter, one teacupful of sugar, one tea- 
cupful of milk, one teacupful of molasses, three teacupsf ul 
of flour, four eggs, one and a half teaspoonsf ul of soda, one 
and a half teaspoonsful of cream of tartar. Ginger to 
taste. ^ 

w SOFT GINGER-BREAD. 

Miss M. M. Hutchison. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of butter, one cupful of brown 
sugar, two eggs, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of 
sweet milk, two and a half teaspoonsful of baking pow- 
der, fourcupsful of flour. Ginger and spice to taste. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Miss M. M. Hutchison. 

One pint of molasses, one cupful of butter, one t ible- 
spoonful of ginger. Put them together and let them boil 
up once, cool them, and add two small teavspoonsful of 
flour, enough to roll out therein. 

GINGER SNAPS. ' 

Mrs. G. M. Hutchison. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of brown sugar, two 
cupsf ul of molasses, two cupsf ul of cold Water, two table- 
spoonsful of baking powder.. Mix stiff with flour. Bake 
in a hot oven. 

GINGER-BREAD. 

Mrs. Lcnrd, Bristol. 

Two cupsful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, two cups- 
f ul of molasses, three tablespoonsful of ginger, one and a 
half tablespoonsful of allspice, two tablespoonsful of soda. 



438 The Canadian Economist. 

two cupsful of sour cream, to all of -vvhich add flour 
enough to make a batter like pound cake. 

THIN GINGER SNAPS (WITHOUT EGGS). 

Miss Jane Martin, Ottawa. 

Take one cupful of molasses, one cupful of butter, one 
cupful of brown sugar ; mix the molasses, butter and 
sugar well together. Then take one cupful of milk, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonsful of cieam of tartar, flour to thicken it to a 
batter. After all is ready, take a little brown sugar, roll 
and stir in to make them crispy. Then butter the pan. 
Drop a spoonful in the pan, not too close together. Bake 
in a hot oven. 

HONEY GINGER CAKE. 

Miss McQuarr'ie. 

Rub together a pound of sifted flour, a pound of fresh 
butter ; mix in a teaspoonful of fine brown sugar, two 
large tablespoonsful of strong ginger, and, if you like 
them, two tablesi)oonsful of carraway seeds. Having 
beaten five eggs, add them alternately with a pint of 
strained honey ; stirring in towards the last, a small tea- 
spoonful of soda that has been dissolv^ed in a little vine- 
gar. Having beaten or stirred the mixture long enough 
to make it light, transfer it to a square tin or block-tin 
pan. Put into a moderate oven and bake an hour or 
more according to thickness. 

GINGER -SNAPS. 

Mrs. McKeUar, Ottaiva. 

Half a pint of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of butter, boil together, then add four teaspoonsful of 
soda, three teasponsful of ginger, two teaspoonsful of cin- 
namon, and one teaspoonful of cloves. Flour enough to 
mould very stift*. Roll out very thin. 



Ginger Snap-'^. 439 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. {Rev.) R McLennan, P. E. I. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of ginger, one cupful 
of molasses, two teaspoonsful of soda, and two teaspoons- 
ful of ginger, half a cupful of hot water. Flour to roll. 

SOFT GINGER-BREAD. 

Mrs. McTavish, Osgoode. 

Two eggs (not beaten), one cupful of mofasses, half a 
cupful of sugar, one cupful of sour milk, three parts of a 
cupful of shortening, one tablespoonful of ginger one tea- 
spoonful of soda, sutHcient flour to make as -thick as a 
sponge-cake. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

Miss Robertson, Thcrrold. 

One cupful and a half of molasses, half a cupful of 
brown sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of 
sweet milk, two teaspoonsful of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
soda, three cupsful of flour, no Qgg^. 

PLUM GINGER-BREAD. 

Mrs. Ritchie, Portage-du-Fort. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of molasses, three 
eggs, one cupful of new milk, one cupful of raisins, two 
c ipsf ul of ginger, one tea.spoonful of soda. Bake moder- 
ately. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. Ritchie. 

Two cupsful of molasses, one cupful of brown sugar, one 
half cupful of butter, one half cupful of lard, one cupful 
of sour milk, one tablespoonful of soda, one tablespoonful 
of gin;^er. Mix as soft as possible to roll. 



440 The Canadian Economist. 

GINGER-BREAD. 

Mrs. Thompson, Point Fortune. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, half a cup- 
ful of butter, three-quarters of a cupful of milk, one tea- 
spoonful and a quarter of soda, two teaspoonsful of cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonful and a quarter of ginger. Mix 
rather stiff. 

GINGER-BREAD. 

Miss Thompson, Uevfreic. 

Three eggs, half a cupful of sugar, one cupful of butter, 
one pint of molasses, one cupful of sour milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of ginger. Nutmeg 
and cinnamon to taste, and flour to thicken like sponge- 
cake. 

SOFT GINGER-BREAD. 

Miss Stevjart 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful of sour milk, four cupsful of sifted flour, one egg, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, two tablespoonsful of soda. 

GOOD EVERY-DAY GINGER-BREAD. 

Mrs. Williams, Chaudiere. 

Three cupsful of flour, one cupful of sour milk, one cup- 
ful of sugar, one cupful of molasses, three-quarters of a 
cupful of butter, two eggs not beaten, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of soda, one heaping teaspoonful of ginger, spice 
to taste. ^Bake twenty minutes in shallow pans. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Take three pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one 
pint of molasses, one tablespoonful of soda, four table- 



Wheat Meal Ginger-hread. 441 

spoonsful of ^finger ; three-quartei-s of a pound of brown 
sugar makes them more crisp. Roll out thin, and bake 
in buttered tins in a quick oven. 

CHOICE GINGER- BREAD. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Two cupsful of Orleans molasses, one cupful of bi'own 
sugar, one cupful of lard, two cupsful of sour milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of cloves, two eggs; add currants, raisins, 
citron if you like. 

SOFT GINGER-BREAD. 

Mrs. James Thomson. 

Two cupsful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, one cupful of milk, 
four cupsful of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of ginger. 
Bake in a brisk oven. • 

GINGER CAKES. 

Miss Robertson, Thorold. 

One egg, one tablespoonful of lard, one tablespoonful of 
ginger, one cupful of molasses, half a cupful of milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda. Flour to roll out. 

WHEAT MEAL GINGER-BREAD. 

Family Friend. 

One pound and a quarter of wheat meal^ one pound of 
treacle, quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, three-quartei"s of an ounce of carraway seeds 
bruised, three-quarters of an ounce of ginger, three-quar- 
ters of an ounce of lemon peel, half a pint of new milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda. Bake in a veiy slow oven. 



442 The Canadian Economist. 

GINGER NUTS. 

Miss Robertson, Tfiorold. 

One cupful of baking molasses, three ounces of ginger, 
Eub butter, sugar and flour together. 

YORKSHIRE CAKES. 

Family Friend. 

Take two pounds of flour and mix with it four ounces 
of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonsful 
of yeast, and two eggs. Beat all well together and let it 
rise, then knead it and make it into cakes. Let them rise 
on tins before you bake them, which do in a slow oven. 

RICE CHEESE CAKES. 

Mi's. {Hon. A.) Vidal, Sarnia. 

Half a pound of ground rice, half a pound of butter, 
half a pound of white sugar, four eggs, grated rind and 
juice of one lemon. Whip the eggs and mix all together, 
fill patty -pans, lined with puff'-paste. 

EXCELLENT SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. (Hon. A.) Vidal, Sarnia. 

Eight eggs, four cupsful of fine white sugar, four cups- 
ful of flour, one cupful of cold water (not too full), essence 
of lemon, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat the 
eggs to a very stiff" froth. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

SAIvDWICHES, BREAKFAST ANT) TEA RELISHES, 
ENTREES, CROQUETTES, ETC. 

GRATED HAM SANDWICFIES. 

GRATE finely as much well cooked ham as 3-011 are 
likely to require. Flavour it with very little 
cayenne and some nutmeg. Roll out some good puff 
paste very thin. Cut it into two perfectly even por- 
tions. Prick in one or two places to prevent its rising too 
highly, and bake in a quick oven till of a golden brown. 
Then take it out and let it stand till cool, when spread a 
little fresh butter lightly over the whole. This should 
not be done till the paste is perfectly cool. Now spread 
the grated ham evenly over the paste. Lay the second 
piece of puff-paste over it, and with a very sharp knife 
cut into small-sized sandwiches. This is a charming sup- 
per dish. 

SAUSAGE ROLLS. 

Roll some puff-paste rather thin, cut it into squares of 
about four inches. Take the skins off the sausages, di- 
vide them in two, roll them in flour, and put one-half in 
each roll, turn the paste over. Cut it straight with a knife 
at the ends. Glaze with w^hite of eggs and bake in a 
quick oven. 

PORK CAKE, 

Mrs. Brovm, Ottaiva. 

One pound of salt pork, fat, chopped fine, pour half a 
pot of boiling water over it, two cupsf ul of sugar, one cup- 



444 The Canadian Economist. 

ful of molasses, one pound of raisins, a teaspoonful of soda, 
a quarter of a pound of citron-peel. Spice to taste. Mix 
altogether, with flour, to the thickness of a common cake. 
Bake slowly. If you choose you can add more fruit. 

FRENCH DISH. 

Mrs. E. K. Branson. 

Cold meat and hard boiled eggs, chopped fine, mustard, 
vinegar, a little butter, red and black pepper, salt ; three 
eggs, for medium-sized side dishful. Put in the season- 
ing to suit taste. 

COLD JOINT. 

Miss Maggie Bunton, Bradford, Pa. 

Take what is left of a cold turkey, chop fine, pour 
over it hot cranberry sauce enough to make the pieces of 
meat stick together when cold. Mix thoroughly, put it 
into a deep dish and press down solid with the bottom of 
another dish. When cold, turn out and cut into slices. 

CHICK KN HALIBUT. 

Miss Jennie G. Boardman, Lowell, Mass.. 

Put one pound and a-half of chicken halibut in a deep 
baking dish. Fill the dish with milk, and sprinkle over 
salt, fiour, pepper, and a little butter. Let this bake one 
hour. Ten minutes before the expiration of the hour 
break into the milk around the fish six or eight eggs. 

MINCED VEAL. 

Mrs. Cantin, Montreal. 

Chop three and a half pounds of veal very fine, add one 
tablespoonful of pepper, one ounce of salt, one nutmeg, 
four Boston crackers rolled fine, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, three well beaten eggs. Make the whole into 



Fish Balls. 445 

a loaf and bake two hours, takings care to baste it often 
To be cut in slices and eaten cold. 

SPICED MEAT. 

Mrs. (Capt.) Cowley. 

Three pounds ofraw beef or veal — nicely chopped — 
one tablespoonful of salt, a dessertspoonful of pepper, the 
same of sage and savory, two tablespoonsful of butter 
melted, two eggs, half a cupful of rolled cracker, mix well, 
shape in a long roll like butter. Bake two hours. Be 
sure to keep water in the pan and baste often. When 
cold, it is nice sliced for tea. 

OMELETTE. 

Mr^. Donaldson. 

Six eggs, half a teacupful of milk, one teaspoonf ul of 
flour, one ounce of butter, two teaspoonsful of yeast pow- 
der. Beat the whites and yolks separately. Boil the 
milk, and just as it comes to the boil stir in the flavour, 
then the eggs, and lastly the yeast powder. 

FISH BALLS. 

Mrs. James Dalgliesh. 

Two cupsful of cold boiled codfish, or salted, one cupful 
of mashed potatoes, one half cupful of drawm butter with 
an egg beaten, season to taste. Chop the fish when you 
have freed it of bones and skin ; work in the potatoes 
and moisten with the drawn butter until it is soft enough 
to mould and will yet keep in shape. Roll the balls in 
flour and fry quickly to a golden brown, in lard or clear 
dripping. Take from the fat so soon as they are done, 
say in a colander sieve, and shake gently to free them 
from every drop of grease. Turn out for a moment on 
white paper to absorb any lingering drops and serve up 
on a hot dish. 



446 The Canadian Economist 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Mrs. J. W. Farrell, Kingston. 

Boil the fish the day before, then pick fine and mix 
with mashed potatoes. To a two quart bowl of fish and 
potatoes (one third fish to two thirds potatoes), chop up 
four hard-boiled eggs and a teacupful of drawn butter 
and a little pepper. Let it stand till to-morrow, then 
make into balls and fry in lard. 

OMELETTE, 

Miss Junor, St. Mary's. 

Take a slice of bread an inch thick, cut off" the crust 
from it, pour half a pint of boiling water upon it, season 
with pepper and salt to taste. Beat up the yolks of five 
eggs and add to the bread and milk when cold ; then add 
the whites well beaten. This make*s two omelettes. 

SIDE-DISH OF MEAT. 

Mrs. W. Kennedy, Owen Sound. 

Take pieces of meat left from roast, and add some fresh 
beefsteak, put in cold w^ater and stew two hours or more, 
w^hen near time for serving mix a little milk, flour, butter, 
pepper and salt together, enough to cover your meat ; 
boil all together, serve hot. 

FRENCH MODE OF WARMING VEAL. 

Miss Lesdie, Kingston. 

Take cold meat left from roast, cut into small pieces, 
season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg or 
mace, sprinkle with a little flour ; put in the fryingpan a 
little milk and any grav}^ or jelly left, then put in meat 
and the white of one egg well beaten, then remove from 
the fire and stir in the yolk of one egg. 



A Delicate Omelette. 447 

CHICKEN LOAF. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Boil a chicken until it will come readily from the bones, 
boiling down the broth imtil there is but little left. Chop 
the chicken when cold, adding the jellied broth ; chop or 
crumble tine bread, and add to the chicken, with two eggs 
(raw), pepper, salt, and mace to taste ; work the whole 
into a loaf, glaze with white of egg and cover with crumbs, 
put in the oven and cook until brown. To be cut in 
slices and eaten cold. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. Thos McKay. 

Take some sardines from a tin, free them from oil, re- 
move the tails and skin and bone, pound them in a mor- 
tar with a piece of fresh butter, an anchovj^ a little mace, 
salt and cayenne ; spread the mixture between slices of 
brown bread and butter ; or they may be simply skinned, 
boned, and halved, and with the addition of salt and pep- 
per and a little French mustard, placed between slices of 
bread and butter. 

A DELICATE OMELETTE. 

Mrs. J. W. Farrell, Kingston 

Break eight eggs in a stewpan,to which add ateaspoonful 
of veiv finely-chopped pai-sley, half a tea^poonf ul of salt, 
a pinch of pepper, and tliree good tablespoonsful of cream, 
beat thern well together, then put two ounces of butter 
in an omelette-pan, stand it over a shai'p fire, and as soon 
as the butter is hot, pour in the eggs, stir them round 
quickly with a spoon until delicately set ; then shake the 
pan round, leave it a moment to colour the omelette, hold 
the pan in a slanting position, just tap it upon the stove 
to bring the omelette to a proper shape, and roll the flap 



448 The Canadian Economist. 

over the spoon ; turn it upon your dish and serve it as 
soon as done. Take care not to do it too much. 

SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. J. W. Farrell, Kingston. 

For improved sandwiches, boil a few pounds of ham 
and chop it very fine while it is yet warm — fat and lean 
together — rub dry mustard in proportions to suit your 
taste through the mass, add as much sweet butter as 
would go to. the spreading of your sandwiches, and ^hen 
thoroughly mixed, split light biscuits in halves and spread 
the ham between. These can be eaten without trouble, 
and will be found excellent. 

SCALLOPED VEAL. 

Mrs. J. W. Farrell, Kingston. 

Chop cold cooked veal fine, put a layer in a baking- 
dish, alternating with a layer of powdered crackers, salt, 
pepper and butter, with two eggs beaten up with a pint 
of milk, cover with a plate, and bake half an hour. 

POTATO OMELETTE. 

Mrs. J. W. Farrell, Kingston. 

This may be made with a mashed potato or two oun- 
ces of potato flour and four eggs and seasoned with pep- 
per, salt and a little nutmeg. It should be made thick, 
and being rather substantial a squeeze of lemon improves 
it. Fry a light brown. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Mrs. Ross, O.L.V. 

Take a slice of beafsteak about three pounds, prepare a 
dressing and spread over it, and roll up and tie very 
tightly, and bake. 



Jellied Veal. 449 

* JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. Boss, O.L.C. 

Cut up two chickens and boil in enough water to cover 
them, until tender, remove the skin and bones, and season 
the liquor, of which there would be a little less than a 
quart, with butter, pepper and salt and the juice of a 
lemon, if liked, dissolve a quarter of a box of gelatine in 
a little warm water, and add with the chicken to the 
liquor. Boil up once, and pour into a mould. When 
cold cut with a very sharp knife, or it will break in 
pieces. 

MINX'ED VEAL, 

Mrs. White, Bradford. 

Three pounds of veal finely minced, a quarter dozen of 
soda crackers pounded fine, three eggs, salt, pepper, sage, 
cinnamon, and cloves. Bake three hours. Cut cold. 
Half a pound of salt pork, baste with butter. 

PICKLED HERRINGS. 

Miss Young. 

Prepare the herrings as for cooking. Pack in a stone 
jar, having previously nibbed them well with a mixture 
of salt, pepper and allspice. C( iver with vinegar. Cover 
the jar and set in a slow oven, and let it stand fourteen 
hours. Take out of the oven when a stronger fire is re- 
quired ; when thus prepared they are ready for use at 
any time. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

Young Ladies' Journal. 

Take a knuckle of veal, wash it, put it in a pot with 

water enough to cover it, boil it slowly for two or three 

hours ; take out all the bones — be sure to pick out all 

little ones — cut the meat into little pieces, put it back in 

29 



450 The Canudlan Economist. 

the liquor, season to your taste with peppeu, salt, and 
sage ; let it stew away until pretty dry ; turn it in an 
oblong dish, or One that will mould it well to cut in 
slices. 

LITTLE PORK PIES FOR BREAKFAST. 

Family Friend. 

Thi-ee and a half pounds of flour, one ])ound of lard, 
one pint and a half of water, three teaspoonsf ul of pep- 
per, six teaspoonfuls of salt, five pounds of meat. Boil 
the lard and water together, pour boiling on the flour, 
having first made a hole in the flour, mix wejl and let it 
stand by the side of the fii'e — it must not be too cold or 
too hot, or it will not rise nicely ; mould it as an ordinary 
liaised pie of the size you wish ; fill the pies with the meat, 
cut in very small square pieces, season it, pour a little 
water in, put on the lid, pinch the edge together, trim 
round with scissors and ornament with leaves formed with 
a paste-cutter. Let the pies stand at least four hours be- 
foie baking ; put them in rather a slow oven; bake from 
one and a half to two hours. When brought out of the 
oven pour into the hole of the lid of the pies, through a 
funnel, as much gravy as they wall take, previously made 
from the bones and trimmings of the pork. 

MUSBROOMS. 

To stew ; Pare neatly, jnit in a basin of water with a 
little lemon juice for a few minutes ; lift them out care- 
fully and put them to stew gently, closely covered, for 
half an hour, with a good piece of butter, a little pepper 
and salt, add a spoonful or two of cream shortly before 
serving, flour to thicken, lemon juice or nutmeg may be 
added, but the exquisite flavour of perfectly fn^sh mush- 
rooms — others are really unfit for use — is only spoiled by 
such additions. Broiled. — Broil large flaps, turning them 
once over a clear fire ; put them in a very hot dish, with 
a piece of butter and a sprinkling of pepper and salt on 



Ham Omelette. 451 

each mushroom ; serve very hot and quickly. Baked. — 
Put them into a tin baking dish with butter, ^c. Bake 
gently ; pile high on dish ; mix a little cream with white 
stock, and pour round. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

Young Ladies' Journal. 

The remains of any cold fish. Remove all skin and 
bones most carefully, then mash the fish free from all 
lumps ; add a piece of butter, pepper, salt and mace (and 
if you have any cold crab or lobster sauce so much the 
better). Forai the fish into portions the size and shape 
of an egg, if too soft a few bread-crumbs may be added. 
Dip each portion into an egg well beaten up, and then 
into fine bread-crumbs. Fry a golden brown in boiling 
lard, drain and serve on a napkin garnished with fried 
parsley or on a dish with tartre sauce. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Family Friend. 

IngTcdients : chicken and ham, four eggs, one table- 
spoonful of salad oil, mustard, vinegar (chop the chicken 
not too fine), also a little nice ham ; then braid together 
the yolks of the eggs (boiled very hard) with the oil, when 
smooth, add a little made mustard and vinegar, should it 
not be salt enough from the ham, add a little salt ; stir 
this mixture well and add the meat ; have ready some 
thin slices of bread buttered, and put some of the mixture 
between two slices ; very nice. 

HAM OMLLETfE. 

Young Ladies' Joutnal. 

It is easily and quickly made and relished well. Beat 
four eggs till quite featheiy, then add three large spoons- 
ful of finely minced ham ; Ijutter the fryingpan well and 



452 The Canadian Economist, 

pour all in, when well set, roll up like a jelly roll and 
serve immediately ; a steady and moderate fire is always 
necessary to make a nice omelette. 

HAM AND TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

Keep an unopened can in the house and then you can 
have sandwiches at any moment. 

TO COOK CANNED SALMON AND LOBSTER. . 

Home Messenger. 

Open the can by taking the top off, drain away the 
liquor, take a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of 
vinegar and a teacupful of boiling water ; pour over the 
salmon, set the can in a pot of hot water and let cook for 
twenty or thirty minutes, again drain off' the liquor, let 
the salmon cool and pour over it a Mayonnaise dressing. 
Lobsters should be drained in a colander and left to air 
two hours. 

RELISH FOR COLD MEAT LUNCHEON. 

Family Friend. 

Take four ripe tomatoes, divide in halves, and fill each 
with a little butter and bread-crumbs, salt and pepper; 
add vinegar in the dish they are to be baked in. 

SALMON TN A MOULD. 

Home Messenger. 

One can of salmon, four eggs beaten light, four table- 
spoonsful of butter melted, but not hot, half a cupful of 
fine bread-crumbs ; season with pepper, salt and minced 
parsley ; chop the fish fine, then rub the butter in till 
smooth ; beat the crumbs into the Q^g, and season before 
Avorking together, put into a buttered mould and steam 
one hour. Sauce for the same : one cupful of milk heated 



Biscuits. 453 

to a boll, tliickened with one tablespoonful of coi-nstarch 
and one tablespoonful of butter rubbed together, the liquor 
from the salmon, one raw egg, one teaspoonful of tomato 
catsup, pinch of mace and a pinch of cayenne ; put the 
egg in last and very carefully. Lobster may be prepared 
in the same way. 

FRIED CHICKEX. 

Family Friend. 

Fry some slices of salt pork until the grease is extracted, 
but not until they brown. Wash and cut up a young 
chicken of boiling size, soak in salt and water half an 
hour, wipe dry, season with pepper, dredge with flour, and 
fry in the hot fat to a nice brown ; set aside in a hot cov- 
ered dish ; pour into the gi'avy left in the pan a cu[) of 
cream or rich milk ; thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, 
the same of butter, and add a little chopped parsley ; boil 
up and pour over the chicken. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN. 

Mince cold chicken and a little lean ham quite fine, 
season with pepper and a little salt if needed, stir all to- 
gether, add some sweet cream, enough to make quite moist, 
cover with crumbs, put it into a scallop shell or a flat 
dish, pour a little butter on top and brown before the 
fii-e or front of a range. • 

BISCUITS. 

Godey's Book. 

Take about half a pound of trimmings or puff paste, 
give it three turns or folds, roll it out to the thickness of 
a penny piece, place small balls of croquette meat at the 
distance of about two inches from each other ; moisten 
the paste around these with a little egg, fold the flap of 
the paste over the balls, press all around them with the 
thumb, cut them out with a fluted round tin cutter, place 



4o4 The Canadian Economist. 

them on a floured dish, dip them in egg, and then bread 
crumbs and fry them in hot lard, a light brown colour ; 
dish them np with fried parsley, 

CROQUETTES OF MUTTON. 

Godey's Book. 

Make about half the quantity of the preparation for 
rissoles. Roll out some puff paste rather thin, cut out 
with a round cutter, about the size of the top of a teacup, 
as many circles of paste as you wish rissoles, put on 
each a large teaspoonful of the mince, double half the 
circle over it, wet the edges and press them together, and 
either fry the croquettes in hot fat or bake them in the 
oven ; if baked, wash them over previously with beaten 
yolk of egg. Dish them high on a folded napkin, and 
send to table very hot. 

LIEBIG SANDWICHES. 

CasseWs Household Guide. 

For travellers or invalids, Liebig's extract of meat 
makes a verj^ nice and nutiitious sandwich. Directions : 
Cut four thin slices of bread and butter, using the best 
fresh butter, spread over two of the slices a thin layer of 
the extract, with a little mustard. The extract is gene- 
rally sufficiently salt, but it may be added if desired. 
Place on the top of these two slices, the other two slices 
of bread and butter. 




CHAPTER XXIX. 
SAVOURY JELLIES AND JELLIES. 



ASPIC JELLY. 

Home Messenger. 

rilAKE of veloute(a finely prepared veal stock, made from 
1 knuckles of veal) four gallons, boil it down to two 
gallons, add to this eight calves' feet, and boil briskly for 
two hours, add to this six lemons, two sticks of cinnamon, 
two teaspoonsful of mace, either powdered or in blades, 
salt to bring to a flavour half a pound of sugar, boil two 
hours, set aside on the range to settle and strain through 
flannel bags twice. 

HARTSHORN .JELLY. 

Mrs. Breden. 

Hartshorn one pound, water one gallon, peel of two le- 
mons, boil over a gentle fire until sufficiently thick, strain 
and add loaf-sugar half a pound; whites of ten eggs well 
beaten to a froth, juice of six lemons, mix well together 
and put into moulds. 

ISINGLASS JELLY. 

Mrs. Breden. 

Put four ounces of isinglass and two ounces of cloves 
into a gallon of water, boil it down to half a gallon, strain 
t upon four pounds of loaf-sugar, ind put into moulds. 



45G The Canadian Economist. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Mrs. Breden. 

Isinglass two ounces, water one quart, boil ; add sugar 
one pound, clarify, and when nearly cold, add the juice of 
five lemons, and the grated yellow rinds of two oranges 
and two lemons, mix well, strain off the peel and put in 
glasses or moulds. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Mrs. Breden. 

Wash eight ounces of tapioca well, then soak it in a 
gallon of fresh water five or six hours, add the peels of 
eight lemons, and set all on to heat, simmer till clear, add 
the juice of eight lemons, flavour and sugar to taste, then 
pour into moulds. 

JELLIED CHICKEN, 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte. 

Cut up your fowl, lay it in on your stewpan, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, cover with water and boil till the 
meat will shake from the bones (have ready a package of 
gelatine soaked in a cupful of water j, after removing the 
fowl pour the gelatine into the liquor, season with a little 
mace, take the meat from the bones, arrange it nicely in 
your mould, dark and light alternately, two eggs boiled 
hard and cut in thin slices may be added, then pour the 
liquor over and set it in a cool place. 

CHICKEN JELLY. 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte. 

Put a fowl into a pan (an old one preferred), also a 
hough of beef with carrot, turnip and salt (no pepper), a 
sufficient quantity of water so as to allow of slow boiling 
for twelve hours without adding any water ; put it 



Orange Jelly. 457 

through a sieve into a large dish, let it cool, take off the 
fat, use the fat either cold as a jelly or melted as soup 
with some toast. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Soak one package of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water one hour, add the juice of three lemons, two pounds 
of sugar, one quart of boiling water, when well dissolved 
add one pint of orange juice, strain carefully and set in a 
cool place till ready for use. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal 

Wash and strain the currants. Boil the juice and 
skim it. To each pound of the juice allow one pound of 
loaf sugar. Measure the juice when it is boiled, and then 
throw the sugar into a pan and make a syrup of it with 
a little water. Then add the juice and let it boil rapidly 
till done. Jellies should always be made quickly. Those 
who are veiy particular u.se only the juice which first 
flows through the straining bag, as the thicker particles 
which come through when the bag is squeezed, prevent 
its being so brilliantly clear. Jelly should always be 
boiled sufficiently at first, as it cannot be reboiled like 
preserves. If boiled a second time it will not be jelly 
but only of the consistency of syrup. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Moiiireal. 

Peel twelve large and sweet oranges ; cut them into 
small pieces, and squeeze them thoroughly through a lin- 
en bag. To one pint of juice, add one pound of sugar ; 
when the sugar is dissolved, put it ov'er the fire ; dissolve 
two ounces of isinglass in just enough hot water to cover 



458 The Canadian Economist. 

it, and acid it to the jelly as it begins to boil. Let it boil 
very fast for twenty minutes. Put it hot into the jars 
and tie up with paper. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Express the juice from the fruit through a cloth, strain 
it clear, weigh and stir to it an equal proportion of the 
finest sugar, dried and reduced to powder ; when this is 
dissolved place the preserving pan over a very clear fire 
and stir the jelly often until it boils; clear it carefully 
from scum and boil it quickly from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. This receipt is for a moderate quantity of the 
preserve ; a very small portion will require much less 
time. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Mrs. Jatnes Rodger, Montreal. 

Pare, core and cut small, any good baking apples, say 
nine pounds in weight, put them into a stewpan with 
three pints of water ; boil them gently, stirring them till 
the liquid can be passed through a jelly-bag — then to 
each pint add three-quarters of a pound of powdered loaf 
sugar. Set it on the fire, boil it fifteen minutes, skim- 
ming it, when it will jelly ; but if it be overboiled it will 
resemble treacle. 

APPLE JELLY IN MOT^LDS. 

Mrs. James Rodger, Montreal. 

Peel and core juicy apples and boil two pounds of them 
with half a pint of water to a jelly, pass it through a 
sieve. Add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, the 
juice of one lemon, and one ounce of isinglass, dissolved 
in very little water. Mix together, strain and pour into 
moulds. 



T 



CHAPTER XXX. 
CHEESE, DAIRY AND COWS. 

FONDUR. 

M)'s. Alexander, New Edinburgh. 
^AKE two ounces of bread and boil in half a pint of 



milk, till quite soft, grate into it four ounces of cheese, 
the yolks of three eggs, a lump of butter the size of an 
egg. Put all in with the bread, and let it just boil. Keep 
stirring the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Mix all 
well together. Pour into a pudding-dish and bake when 
it will rise and brown quickly. To be eaten hot with a 
little mustard. 

CHEKSE STRAWS. 

Mr9. Dicl-'ie. 

Two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, two ounces 
of bread-crumbs, two ounces of grated cheese, a little 
salt and pepper. Mix these ingredients into a paste and 
roll it a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into narrow slips ; 
lay them on a sheet of paper and bake for a few minutes. 
Serve cold. 

FONDUE. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Four eggs, weight of two in cheese, add in butter salt, 
and pepper, black and red, to taste. Separate yolks and 
whites, beat the yolks, and gi-ate or cut the cheese into 
thin slices. Break the butter into small pieces, add to 



460 The Canadian Econoraist. 

the other ingredients and beat thoroughly ; whisk the 
whites and stir in lightly, just before putting into the 
oven : fill the dish half-full, as the fondue should rise in 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Sufficient for four or five per- 
sons. It is to be eaten with mustard and the plates are 
to be very hot. 

CREAM CHEESE. 

Mrs. Dickie. 

Take a large pan of rich unskimmed milk, that has set 
in the dairy all night, and is from pasture-fed cows in the 
summer. Have ready a small teacupful of rennet-water, 
in which a piece of rennet from four to six inches square 
has been steeping several hours. Stir the rennet-water 
into the pan of milk, and set it in a warm place until it 
forms a curd. Tie up the curd in a clean linen bag, and 
hang it up in the dairy with a pan under it to receive the 
droppings till it drops no longer. Then transfer the curd 
to a small cheese-mould. Cover it all over with a clean 
linen cloth, folded over the sides and well secured. Put 
a heavy weight on the top so as to press it hard. The 
wooden vessel in which you mould cream cheeses should 
be a bottomless, broad hoop, about the circumference of a 
dinner-plate. Set it, before you fill it with the curd, on 
a very clean table, or a large flat dish. Turn it every day 
for four da3-s, keeping it covered thickly all over with 
fresh green grass, frequently renewed. When done, keep 
it in a dry, cold place, just rubbing the outside with fresh 
butter. When once cut, use the whole on that day, as it 
may spoil before the next. Send it to the table cut across 
in triangular or pie pieces. 

TO MAKE BUTTER. 

Miss Barbara Greig, South Georgetown. 

In order to make butter well, it is necessary that the 
vessels in which the milk is kept, be sweet and clean, and 



Cmvs. 461 

the milk-room in summer cool and airy. Wooden chums 
are mostly used and they should he kept sweet and clean 
in the same manner as the other vessels, exposing the in- 
side to the heat of the sun, until thoroughly dry, after 
each time of washing. A wooden tub and basin is also 
necessary for receiving and working the butter after it is 
made. Care is necessary that the churning is neither too 
fast nor too slowly performed. Scald the tub and ladle, 
then fill it with cold water until the butter is made. After 
the butter is made, take it from the buttermilk with the 
ladle, pressing it against the side of the churn to free it 
from the milk. Put the butter in cold water, then with 
the ladle work all the milk from it, chansjincr the water 
until it is clear : it is best to have ice- water, if possible, 
in summer. To each pound of butter put a small tea- 
spoonful of fine salt, and a small teaspoonful of fine white 
sugar ; work it nicely into the butter, and pack it in 
wooden or stone vessels. Put a piece of muslin and a 
cover over, to keep it from the air. The shelves and floor 
of a milk-room should be washed and wiped dry twice a 
week in summer, and once each week in winter. The 
place should be cool and sweet and free from any musti- 
ness, which will affect the milk. 

cows. 

Miss Beecher. 

The kind of butter depends very much upon the kind 
of cows. Those who give a gi-eat deal of milk are usu- 
ally small and thin. Every cow should have a teacupful 
of salt each week, and must be well fed. Green corn- 
stalks and carrots are excellent for cows. Turnips, cab- 
bage and parsnips spoil the milk. The waste of a kitchen 
with a quart of corn meal and as much hay as she will 
eat daily, is good fare. Skimmed milk for a drink is good, 
and if it is refused, withhold water, and the cow will 
learn to love it. Milk three times a day, and you get 



4C2 The Canadian Economist. 

much more cream ; stripping must be done thoroughly or 
you lose cream and dry up the cow. Never make a cow 
run, as it injures the milk. Use tin vessels for milk. A 
stone- ware churn is best. 

CHEESE CREAM. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Put three pints of milk to half a pint of cream warm, 
or according to the same proportions, and put in a little 
rennet. Keep it covered in a warm place, till it is curded. 
Have a mould with holes, either of china or any other. 
Put the curds into it to drain about an hour ; serve with 
a good plain cream, and pounded sugar over it. 

TO PREPARE RENNET TO TURN MILK. 

Warnes Every- day Cookery. 

Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and 
scour inside and out with salt. After it is cleared of the 
curds always found in it, let it drain a few hours ; then 
sew it up with two handsful of salt in it, or stretch it on 
a stick, well salted, or keep it in the salt wet^ and soak a 
piece for use, which will do over and over again by wash- 
ing it in fresh water. 

NAPKIN CHEESE, 

Warne's Every-day Cookery. 

One pint of thick cream, one teaspoonful of salt. Put 
a pint of thick cream and a teaspoonful of salt into a 
cloth, which should be placed in a sieve the size of a tea 
saucer. Let it stand for twenty-four hours, then turn it. 
Let it stand for another day and turn it. The day fol- 
lowing it will be ready to serve. 



OH AFTER XXXI. 
PICKLES AND CATSUP. 

CHOWDER. 

Mrs. Mary Brough, Ottaiva. 

ONE peck of tomatoe.s sliced ; sprinkle a little salt 
on them and let them remain over night. Next 
morning pour oft' the liquid and add six onions chopped 
fine, one en; ful of grated horse-radish, one tablespoonful 
of allspice and cloves and a little nutmeg, one pint of 
sugar, and as much vinegar as will cover them, and boil 
them a short time. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Breckon, Ottawa. 

Take ripe tomatoes, boil till soft, strain through a fine 
sieve : to one gallon of the juice put two teaspoonsful of 
salt, two of black pep])er, one of mustard, half a table- 
spoonful of allspice, one teaspoonful of cloves, a small 
quantity of red pepper, one pint of vinegar, half-a-cupful 
of sugar ; boil one hour, then add spice and boil till done. 

CUJtKANT CATSUP. 

Miss Mnggie Bimtov, Bradford. 

Weigh five pounds of currants from which the seeds 
have been removed; put into a jai-, and wash well, three 
pounds of sugar, add two tables})oonsful of cloves, two of 
cinnamon, one teacupful of sour vinegar. 



464 The Canadian Economist. 

PICKLED PLUMS. 

Mrs. E. R. Branson, Ottaiva. 

Seven pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, one quart 
of vinegar, spices to taste ; for pears use less sugar. 

COLD SLAW. 

Mrs. E. R. Bronson, Ottaiva. 

Cut a cabbage in small pieces and make a dressing as 
follows : one teacupful of vinegar, two teaspoonsful of 
mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, four of sugar, two of 
melted butter ; two tables poonsful of finely-mashed pota- 
toes added to the dressing will improve it. 

TOMAT.O CATSUP. 

Mrs. E. R. Bronson, Ottawa, 

Take one peck of tomatoes, quarter of a pound of pep- 
per, quarter of a pound of allspice, quarter of a pound of 
white mustard seed, two ounces of cloves, six tablespoons- 
ful of salt, half-a gallon of vinegar ; boil slowly six hours, 
cool and then bottle. 

RECIPE FOR MAKING VINEGAR. 

Miss Maggie Bunton, Bradford. 

Three gallons of rain-water, one pint of yeast, one quart 
of molasses; let this mixture stand in the sun from four 
to six weeks. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Mrs. E. H. Bronson, Ottawa. 

Take cucumbers fully ripe, pare and scrape out the in- 
side, cut them in pieces lengthwise, lay them in weak 
brine for twenty -.four hours, then take them out, wipe 
dry and put in weak vinegar for twenty -four hours ; then 



Green Tomato Pickles. 46 o 

to seven pounds of the cucumbers add one quart of vine- 
gar and one pound of sugar ; boil till soft. Take out the 
cucumbers, and to the vinegar add spices to suit the taste 
(allspice, cinnamon and cloves), boil a few minutes ; pour 
the vinegar on to the cucumbers, A little horse-radish 
sauce will preserve the vinegar. 

TOM.\TO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Baptie. 

Wipe one peck of ripe tomatoes, one cup of salt, one 
large onion. Slice and boil foi- an hour. Strain through 
a fine colander or sieve, and return to the kettle. One 
dessertspoonful of curry powder, one dessertspoonful of 
black pepper, one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of allspice : now boil twenty minutes, add mus- 
tard until of the consistency of paste. Boil a few minutes, 
stin-ing all the time. When cold, put into small jars as 
pickles, and seal. 

SWEET APPLE PICKLE. 

Mrs. S. Chnstie. 

Two quarts of vinegar, three pounds of sugar, quarter 
of a pound of cinnamon, quarter of a pound of cloves, two 
gallons of apples. 

SWEKT TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. S. Christie. 

One of vinegar, quarter of a pound of cinnamon, quar- 
ter of a pound of cloves, one peck of tomatoes, five cups 
of sugar. 

GUEEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. Thos. Drurnmond, Kingston. 

One peck of tomatoes sliced, one dozen of onions sliced, 
put alternate layers of onions and tomatoes with salt 
80 



4}^^ The Canadian Economist. 

sprinkled between in a basin a,Tid let stand till next day, 
then drain off the water : quarter of a pound of mustard, 
half an ounce of whole black pepper, one ounce of whole 
cloves, one ounce of white mustard seed. Put alternate 
layers of tomatoes, onions, and spices ; cover with vinegar 
and boil twenty minutes. I have found this a very good 
receipt. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

Mrs. Thos. Drummond, Kingston. 

One peck of tomatoes, half a pound of salt, six red 
peppers ; boil one hour and strain through a sieve : half 
an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of cloves, one ounce 
each of the other spices, and two onions, boil another 
hour. When cold acid a quarter of a pound of best mus- 
tard, and half a pint of vinegar. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Mrs. Thos. Drummond, Kingston. 

Four quarts of red currants, three pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar. Cloves, cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg to 
taste. After boiling together till the cunants break, take 
the cun-ants out and boil the juice slowly for an hour. 
Put into jars and eat with cold meat of any kind. 

INDIAN PICKLES. 

Mrs. Horsey. 

Six quarts of best vinegar, quarter of a pound of salt, 
quarter of a pound of root of ginger bruised, one ounce of 
mace, one tablespoonful of cayenne pepper, 1 ounce of 
white pepper, quarter of a pound of mustard seed. Mix 
and boil, and when cold put in a jar and add two ounces 
of flour of mustard, two ounces of turmeric powder mixed 
in a little cold vinegar. To this mixture, when cold, add 
your vegetables. A teaspoonful of curry powder is an 
improvement. 



Tomato Catsup. 467 

TOMATO RELISH. 

• Miss Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

Slice one peck of green tomatoes ; chop six green pep- 
pers, four onions, strew one teaspoonful of salt over them, 
and let them stand one night. In the morning drain off 
the water, and put them in a kettle with vinegar enough 
to cover tbem, one teacupf ul of sugar, one of grated horse- 
radish, a teaspoonful of cloves, allspice and cinnamon. 
Boil until soft, and pack in jars. 

SWEET CURRANT PICKLE. 

Miss Hunt, Boston, Mass. 

Three pounds of currants (stalks off), three pounds of 
sugar, one pint of vinegar. Take one teaspoonful of 
ground cloves or cinnamon, nutmegs, allspice. Boil 
gently one hour. 

SWEET PICKLED APPLES. 

Mrs. Leslie, Kingston. 

Three pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, one quart 
^ of water, a few cloves, a small piece of mace and nutmeg, 
the spice to hz enclosed in a bag. When this begins to 
boil, add seven pounds of apples, pared and quartered. 
Boil until the fruit looks clear. Select apples which do 
not break readily. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Mrs. Leslie, Kingston. 

Take one peck of ripe tomatoes, slice them, sprinkle a 
little salt on each layer. Let them stand for twelve houi*s, 
then strain carefully to remove all the seeds. For this 
quantity the spices, which should be whole, are half an 
ounce of cloves, half an ounce of black pepper, one red 
pepper. These enclosed in a muslin bag ; half an ounce 



468 The Canadian Economist 

of mace broken up and put into the ketchup. Boil until 
quite thick. When cold, add one pint of white wine 
vinegar, and a quarter pound of mustard. * 

MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Mv8. McGillivray. 

One hundred small cucumbers, two quarts of small 
onions, two quarts of string beans, two quarts of green 
tomatoes, two heads of cauliflower. The vegetables need 
to stand in salt and water over night. Drain out of that 
water in the morning. Cover with vinegar. Boil twenty 
minutes. Mix one quart of mustard and ten cents' worth 
of turmeric powder in one extra quart of vinegar abcnit 
ten minutes before taking off the Are. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. McGilliviUy. 

Half a bushel of tomatoes, peel them and strain them, 
then add one tablespoonful of ginger, one of cloves, two 
of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of red pepper, two-thirds of 
a cupful of salt, one teaspoonful of mustard, one pint of 
vinegar, a few onions, simmer slowly two or three hours. 

CHUTNEY AND QUIHI. 

Mrs. Thoynas McKay. 

Eight ounces sharp apples, eight of tomatoes, eight of 
brown sugai", eight of raisins, four of red chillis, salt : mix 
all together, add three quarts of vinegar and one of lemon 
juice ; place a jar containing this composition on a stove 
or by the side of a fire, in a heat not less than 130°; stir 
twice a day for a month then strain but do not squeeze. 
Bottle the quihi which is an excellent sauce for any kind 
of fish or meat hot and cold. Put the chutney in pots or 
jars ; use in sauces or gravies, or like mustard with cold 
meat or spread on grills. 



Pickled Plums. 469 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Mrs. Parr, Ottawa. 

Take small white onions, peel and put in salt and 
water over niofht, then scald in milk and water, half and 
half, and just let them come to a hoil ; skim out in a col- 
ander to drain, and pour cold water over them, then put 
in bottles with a red {)epper to each bottle, cover with 
cold vinegar and seal. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

Mi's. Parr, Ottaivi. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, boil one hour with six red 
peppei-s, then strain through a cloth to take out the seeds, 
then add one and a quarter cupsful of salt, two small 
tablespoonsful of black pepper, two of ginger, two of all- 
spice, one small spoonful of mace, one of cloves and three 
large onions chopped fine ; boil another hour and when 
cold add half a pound of mustard, one small tables poonful 
of ca3^enne pepper, half a pint of vinegar, mix well to- 
gether and bottle tight. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa. 

Scald the .peaches to remove the skins ; to twelve pounds 
of fruit add four pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, 
cinnamon and cloves to taste. 

PICKLED (blue) PLU.MS. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa. 

Five pounds of plums, three pounds of sugar, three 
pints of good vinegar, one teaspoonful of cinnamon and 
cloves gi-ound, in a muslin. Let all boil till the fruit is 
cooked, then skim it out and boil down the juice till it 
jellies. 



470 TJiC Canadian Economist. 

SWEET APPLES PICKLED. 

31x8. Ray, Ottaiva. 

Six pounds of apples (quartered and cored), three pounds 
of sugar, one quart of vinegar. Spice with cloves. Cook 
till transparent. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa, 

Five pounds of red currants, four pounds of sugar, one 
pint of ground ginger, two tablespoonsful of ground cloves 
and two tablespoonsful of cinnamon. Boil tv;^o hours or 
until quite thick. A nice sauce for cold meats. 

« CHOWDER. 

Mrs. Ray, Ottawa. 

One gallon of finely chopped green tomatoes, four or 
five onions ; salt them over night, separate from the juice 
in the morning. Squeeze as dry as possible ; add one table- 
spoonful of ground pepper, one tablespoonful of allspice 
and cloves, four tablespoonsful of mustard, half a table- 
spoonful of grated horse-radish, two good green peppers 
chopped fine, one ounce of mustard seed. Mix all well and 
cover with vinegar. 

INDIA PICKLE. 

Mrs. (Hon. A.) Vidal, Sarnia. 

One gallon of good vinegar, four ounces of curry powder, 
four ounces of turmeric, four ounces of mustard. Rub toge- 
ther, if approved, with half a pint of salad oil, it is a great 
improvement. Three ounces of ginger, half a pound of 
shalots, two ounces of garlic, four pounds of salt, four 
ounces of cayenne pepper, four ounces of mustard seed. Let 
it stand in a jar covered with a bladder, set in the pickle 
by the side of the fire for three days, shaking often. The 



Tomato Catsup. 471 

articles to be pickled such as cucumbers, green tomatoes. 
French beans, .voung melons, kc, must all be parboiled in 
strong brine, strong enough to bear an egg, then dried and 
and put in the above pickle. Anything may be put in 
excepting red cabbage and walnut. 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. {Rev. A.) Scott, Given Sound. 

Seven pounds of tomatoes ; after peeling use one quart 
of vinegar, three pounds of sugar (brown sugar is best). 
Boil two and a half hours ; then add half an ounce of 
cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and boil half an hour more. 

BOMBAY CHUTNEY. 

Mrs. (Rev.) D. Wardrope, Teeswater. 

Bi-uise in a mortar one half pound of red pepper, half a 
pound of onions, and half a pound of raisins stoned. Add 
to this twenty sour apples gi-ated, a pound of brown sugar 
and half a pint of vinegar. Boil all together for fifteen 
minutes. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

Mrs. {Rev) D. Wardrope, Teeswater 

A peck of gi-een tomatoes sliced thin, one and a naif pecks 
of onions sliced thin, put in layers in a stone vessel with 
two small cupsful of salt, and let it stand overtiight, then 
drain and add to the tomatoes and onions three quarts of 
vinegar, four ounces of white mustard seed, and half an 
ounce each of pepper, cloves, ginger and cinnamon ground. 
Boil one and a half houi-s. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Walford, Renfrew. 

To one pail of tomatoes, one quart of vinegar, six table- 
spoonsful of mustard, six tablespoonsful of s^t, six table- 



472 The Canadian Econo-mist. 

spoonsful of unground pepper, four tablespoonsful of all- 
spice, four tablespoonsful of cloves. Red pepper to suit 
taste. Cut up tomatoes and boil in tin vessel, strain 
through a colander. 

TOMATO CHOWDER. 

Mrs. Walford, Renfreiv. 

Slice one peck of green tomatoes with large onions » 
sprinkle salt over each layer. Let them remain over 
night ; next morning strain off the pickle, throw it away 
and put the tomatoes into a preserving pan. Cover them 
with vinegar, add two ounces each of allspice and peppers, 
one cupful of grated horse-radish. 

CHOW-(JHOW. 

Miss Young. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, sprinkled with salt, 
let them stand over night ; half a cupful of grated horse- 
radish, four peppers, six onions, one pound of sugar, two 
tablespoonsful of cloves, two tablespoonsful of allspice, 
vinegar enough to cover. Boil until the tomatoes are 
tender. 

SPICED CURE ANTS. 

Mvp. Dewar. 

To five pounds of lipe currants put four pounds of 
bi'own sugar, one pint of vinegar, two tablespoonsful of 
ground cloves, two of cinnamon, boil gently two or three 
hours until it thickens. 

TOMATO PASTE. 

Miss Young. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, one teaci;pful of salt ; boil 
them until they wijl go easily through a sieve. Strain 
and retui-n to the kettle, and add the following: one tea- 



Pickled Cabbage. 473 

spoonful of ground cloves, one teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, one teaspoonful of curry powder, one small onion 
chopped very fine. Boil till quite thick, then add mustard 
to form a paste. 

ONE WAY TO MAKE TOMATO CATSUP. 

The Bazaar. 

Slice the tomatoes and sprinkle them with salt to ex- 
tract the juice, stew it down until quite thick, and after 
straining through a colander add sugar, a few cloves, and 
pepper, mace and vinegar to your taste ; bottle and wax 
up tight. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

(Common Sense in the Household. 

Pick the whitest and closest branches, cut into small 
sprays or clusters, plunge into a kettle of scalding brine, 
and boil three minutes, take them out and lay upon a 
sieve or cloth, sprinkle thickly with salt, and when dry 
brush this ofi', cover with cold vinegar for two days' set- 
ting the jar in the sun, then pack carefully in stoneware 
jars, and pour over them scalding vinegar, seasoned thus : 
To one gallon allow a cupful of white sugar, a dozen 
blades of mace, a tablespoonful of celery seed, two dozen 
white peppercorns and some bits of red pepper pods, a 
tablespoonful of coriander seed, and the same of whole 
mustard ; boil five minutes, repeat the scalding once a 
week for three week.s, tie up and set away. Keep the 
cauliflowers under the vinegar by keeping a small plate 
on top. 

PICKLED CABBAGE (pURPLE). 

Ci^mvion Sense in the Household. 

Quarter the cabbage, hiy in a wooden tray, sprinkle 
lightly with salt, and set in the cellar till next day; drain 
off the brine, wipe dry, lay in the sun two hours and cover 



474 The Canadian Economist. 

with cold vinegar for twelve hours ; prepare the pickle by 
seasoning enough vinegar to cover the cabbage with equal 
quantities of mace, cloves, whole white peppers, a cupful 
of sugar to every gallon of vinegar and a teaspoonf ul of 
celery seed for every pint ; pack the cabbage in a stone 
jar ; boil the vinegar and spices five minutes and pour on 
hot, cover and set away in a cool", dry place. This will 
be ripe in six weeks. 

PICKLED BUTTERNUTS AND WALNUTS, 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Gather them when soft enough to be pierced by a pin ; 
lay them in strong brine five days, changing this twice in 
the meantime, drain and wipe them with a coarse cloth ; 
pierce each by running a large needle through it, and lay 
in cold water for six hours. To each gallon of vinegar 
allow a cupful of sugar, dozen each of whole cloves, and 
black peppercorns, half as much allspice and a dozen 
blades of mace ; boil five minutes, pack the nuts in small 
jars, and pour over them scalding hot. Repeat this twice 
within a week ; tie up and set away. 

CUCUMBER AND GHERKIN PICKLE, 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Choose small cucumbers or gherkins for this purpose ; 
they are more tender and look better on the table. Re- 
ject all over a finger in length, and every one that is mis- 
shapen or specked, however slightly. Pack in a stone 
jar or a wooden bucket, in layers, strewing salt thickly 
between these ; cover the top layer out of sight with salt 
and pour on cold water enough to cover all. Lay a small 
plate or round board upon them, with a clean stone to 
keep it down. You may leave them in the brine for a 
week or a month, stirring up from the bottom every other 
day. If the longer time, be sure your salt and water is 
strong enough to bear up an egg. If you raise your own 



Slued Civcumher. . 475 

cucumbers pick them every day, and drop them in the 
pickle. When you are ready to put them up throw away 
the brine, with any cucumbers that may have softened 
under the process, and laj' the rest in cold fresh water for 
twentv-four hours. Chancre the water then for fresh and 
leave it for another day. Have a kettle ready lined with 
green vine leaves, and lay the pickles evenly within it, 
scatterinor powdered alum over the layers. A bit of alum 
as large as a pigeon's egg will be enough for a two-gallon 
kettleful. Fill with cold water, cover with vine leaves, 
three deep ; put a close lid or inverted pan over all and 
steam over a slow fire five or six houre, not allowing the 
water to boil. When the pickles are a fine green remove 
the leaves, and throw the cucumbers into very cold water. 
Let them stand in it while you prepare the vinegar. To 
one gallon allow a cupful of sugar, three dozen whole 
black peppei-s, the same of cloves, half as much allspice, 
one dozen blades of mace ; boil five minutes. Put the 
cucumbers into a stone jar, and pour the vinegar over 
them scalding hot, cover closely. Two days aftei'wards 
scald the vinegar again and return to the pickles. Repeat 
the process three times more at intervals of two, four, and 
six days. Cover with a stoneware or wooden top ; tie 
stout cloth over this and keep in a cool dry place. They 
will be ready for eating in two months. Examine every 
few weeks. 

SLICED CUCUMBER (VERY NICE). 

Common Sense in the Ifpusehold. 

Two dozen large cucumbers, sliced and boiled in vinegar 
enough to cover them for one hour ; set aside in the hot 
vinegar. To each gallon of cold vinegar allow one pound 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one of ginger, 
one of black pepper, one of celery seed, one teaspoonful 
of mace, one of allspice, one of cloves, one table spoonfulof 
garlic sliced, a half teaspoonful of cayenne pepper ; put 



470 . The Canadian Economist. 

in the cucumbers and stew two hours. The pickle will be 
ready for use so soon as it is cold. 

TO GREEN PICKLES. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery. 

Keep thein in hot vinegar until they become so, and 
keep them closel}'^ covered down, or the evaporation of 
the steam may injure the colour. To make pickles crisp, 
dissolve a very small piece of alum. A piece the size 
of a bean will be sufficient for a gallon of vinegar. 

SUMMER PICKLES FOR PRESENT USE. 

CasselUs Dictionary of Cookery. 

Cut equal quantities of young onions, sour apples, and 
fresh cucumbers into thin slices. With these fill a stone 
jar which will hold a quart of liquid. Shake in with the 
vegetables a dessertspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful and 
a half of cayenne. Pour in four or five tablespoon sful of 
soy and as much vinegar as the jar will hold, and cover 
closely until wanted. If it is wished to make this pickle 
in the winter-, finely-minced celery may be substituted 
for the cucumbers. The pickle can be used the day it is 
made. 

PICALILLY. 

Cooley's Iieceij)ts. 

White cabbages sliced, cauliflowers pulled to pieces, and 
scalded radishes, topped and tailed French beans, celery 
in three inch lengths, shoots of elder peeled, clusters of 
elder-flowers unopened, all salted for two or three days, 
then mixed with apples and cucumbers sliced, and a large 
proportion of ginger, garlic, turmeric, long pepper, and 
mustard seed, as the pickle is expected to be very warm. 
The vinegar also must be the strongest that can be pro- 
cured, and just sufiicient to float the articles. Any other 
vegetables may be used at pleasure. 



Herb Spirit. 477 

PICKLES, WHOLESOMENESS OF. 

CasseU's Dictionari/ of Coohenj. 

" Pickles," says Dr. Graham.. " are merely vegetable re- 
ceptacles for vinegar, but the vegetable, being hardened 
by the acid, renders it somewhat difficult of digestion, 
and therefore pickles are not to be recommended. The 
pickled onion seems to be the most wholesome of this 
sort of condiment." 

SOY. 

Miss B^echer. 

One pound of salt, two pounds of sugar, fried half an 
hour over a slow fire, then add three pints of boiling 
water, half a pint of essence of anchovies, a dozen of 
cloves, and some sweet herbs. Boil till the salt dissolves, 
then strain and bottle it. 

]VIUSHKOOM CATSUP. 

Miss Beecher. 

Put the mushrooms in layers, with salt sprinkled over 
each layer, and let them stand four days. Then mash 
them fine, and to every quart add two-thirds of a tea- 
spoonful of black pepper, and boil it in a stone jar set in 
boiling water two houi-s. Strain it without squeezing, 
boil the liquor, let it stand to cool and settle, then bottle, 
cork and seal it and set it in a cool place. 

HERB SPIRIT. 

Miss Beecher. 

It is convenient sometimes to use herb spirit instead of 
the herbs. It is made thus : take all the sweet herbs, as 
thyme, marjoram, sweet basil, and summer savory, dry, 
pound, sift and steep in brandy for a fortnight, an ounce 
to half a pint. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 
PRESERVING AND CANNING FRUIT. 

RASPBERRY WINE. 

Mrs. R. Blackburn, JS^ew Edinburgh. 

ONE gallon of water, one gallon and a half of berries. 
Wash the berries well in the water. Let them 
stand twelve hours, then strain ; add three pounds and a 
half of brown sugar to the gallon. Set in an open vessel 
with small pieces of toast spread with yeast ; let stand 
till fermentation ceases, strain every morning; when done 
working, add a few raisins and bottle, or keep in stone 
jars. 

ARTIFICIAL HONEY. 

Miss Maggie Bunton, Bradford. 

Take of Havana sugar ten pounds, water three pounds, 
cream of tartar forty grains, essence of peppermint, 
ten drops. First dissolve the sugar over a slow fire and 
skim, then dissolve the cream of tartar in a little warm 
water and add with some stirring, then add the honey 
heated to a boiling poinf^ ; add the peppermint; stir for a 
few minutes and let it stand until cold, when it will be 
ready for use. 

RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY ACID. 

Mi's. Coiuley. 

Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in one quart of 
water, and pour it on twelve pounds of ripe fruit in a 



Gow to Presen'e Tomatoes, Grapes, etc. 479 

large jar. Let it stand twenty-four hours ; strain it from 
the fruit without pressing, and to every pint of juice put 
one and a half of white sugar. Stir w^ith a silver spoon 
until the sugar is well dissolved, let it stand for a day or 
two, then take off the scum and bottle for use (not the 
scum) nicei" and more wholesome than raspberry vinegar. 

PINE-APPLE MARMALADE. 

Mrs. Donaldson. 

Peel and grate the pine apple, then weigh it, allowing 
a pound of the sugar to a pound of the gi*ated fruit. Put 
the sugar with the pine apple, and let them stand for two 
or three hours, or until the sugar is dissolved, then put 
into a presel•^'ing kettle, and boil for about twenty 
minutes, or until it looks clear. Keep in a close jar. 

GRAPE JELLY, 

Mrs. G. A. Grier, Montreal. 

Boil the grapes, stems and all just as they come out of 
the basket for an hour and a-half, putting in barely 
enough Avater to keep the fruit from burning, then re- 
move the kettle and put the contents in a flannel jelly- 
bag to strain. Squeezing the bag does not make the 
syrup run. Then to a pint of the liquid put a pound 
of sugar, put back on the stove again, let it come to a 
boil, and boil for a short ten minutes, then skim it clear, 
and put it in small jars or glasses. The Delaware 
grapes make a more delicious and delicate, though not so. 
stiff, a jelly as the common purple grapes, Isabella or 
Concord. 

HOW TO PRESERVE TOMATOES, GRAPES, PLUMS, ETC. 

Dr. G. M. Hutchison. 

Make a large box as nearly air-tight as possible by pre- 
paring the inside with strong paper ; put in movable racks 



480 The Canadian Economist. 

made of laths, on cleats nailed to the end about five inches 
ajjart ; on these racks place the fruit, only one layer deej), 
not using any injured fruit. Break some brimstone in 
small pieces, and place in a saucer, ignite the sulphur 
thoroughly, so that all the surface will be in a flame. 
When done, place in the bottom of the box immediately, 
close the box tight, and leave for two or three hours, 
larger fruit requiring a longer time. Remove the fruit 
and place in open-mouthed jars ; pour cm them lukewarm 
water removing the rack, place the jars in the box, 
and repeat the operation with the sulphur same as before. 
Cover the jars with paper, to prevent the dust getting in. 
Keep in a cool place. Tomatoes preserved in this way 
can be ke[)t indefinitely. 

GRAPP] JELLY. 

Mrs. G. M. Hutchison. 

Cover the grapes with cold water, and put them to 
boil until the skins are quite soft ; strain them through a 
flannel bag until as clear as water. One pound of sugar 
to a pint of juice, then boil quickly for twenty or thirty 
minutes. 

OBANGE MARMALADE. 

Mrs. J. Leslie, Ottawa. 

Allow equal weight of bitter oranges and fine loaf 
sugar. Wash the oranges, wipe them dry, and grate off" 
off any discoloured part. Cut the rind in halves, and 
with a dessertspoon loosen it all round, to take ofl" each 
of the halves entire. Take the core and seeds clean from 
the oranges, leaving the juice with the puljj. Put the 
peel into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and cover 
them closely with a cloth, underneath the cover. Let 
them boil for some hours, till so tender that the head of 
a pin will press them easily, drain off" the water and 
while they are hot, with a silver spoon scoop out all the 



Marw<'iJ'"^^. 481 

soft part, leaving the skins quite thin. Cut them into 
thin parings half an inch long. Clarify the sugar, and 
boil to a candy height. Put in the parings, and in ten 
minutes add the juice and pulp, and boil all together till 
transparent. Pai-t of the peel may be grated to heighten 
the colour, and a pound and a-half of sugar to a pound 
of oranges may be used. For those who do not care for 
the bitter oranges so much, it can easily be made with 
half and half Seville and sweet. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Mrs. Ledie, Ottawa. 

Bruise a quart of fresh-gathered berries in a China 
basin. Pour over it a pint of good vinegar. Cover it 
closely. Let it stand three days, and stir it daily; strain 
it through a flannel bag ; let it drip as long as anything 
will come from it, but do not press it. To one pint of 
the liquor put one pound of pounded loaf sugar. Boil it 
ten minutes and take off the fire. Skim as it rises ; when 
cold, bottle and cork tightly. 

MAB>L\LADE. 

Mrs. (Rev.) J. McEiuen, lugersoll. 

Allow an equal weight of white sugar and Seville 
oranges ; to twelve oranges.allow one pint of water. Peel 
the oi-anges carefully, remove a little of the white pith, 
and boil the rinds in water two hours, changing the water 
three times to take ofl* a little of the bitter taste. Break 
the pulp into small pieces, take out all the pips, and cut 
the boiled rind into fine chips. Make a syrup with the 
sugar and water, boil this well, skim it, and when clear 
put in the pulp and chips. Boil all together from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. Poiir into pots, and when cold 
cover with paper V)rushed over with white of egg. The 
juice and gmted rind rif a lonion to every twt'lve oranges ; 

:]1 



482 The Canadian Economist. 

added with the pulp and chips to the syrup are a great 
improvement to this marmahide. 

APPLES. 

Ihe Economical Cook Boole. 

These make a very nice preserve. ,Pare them, cover 
them with water, and boil half an hour, slowly. Then 
pour the apple-water on the sugar and boil till clear and 
thick, skimming it carefully ; if you add lemons, have 
ready and lay in with the apples, and let them boil till the 
apples are tender and clear, but not till they break. When 
cold put them in jars. They look well cut in halves, pre- 
served with lemons or oranges, or alone, with a little of 
the essence of lemon. 

PEACHES. 

The Economical Cook Book. 

If you preserve them whole they should be procured 
before they are quite ripe. Pare them, and boil in the 
syrup gently until they are tender. If in quarter, crack the 
pips of half the peaches and boil in the syrup. Strain and 
cork in the usual way. Put up in jars and glasses. Al- 
low a pound of sugar to a pound of f I'uit. 

PEARS. 

The Economical Cool- Book. 

These look best, if of moderate size, preserved whole, 
pared with the stems on ; make a thin syrup and boil them 
tender. They will be sufficiently cooked in half an hour. 
If you wish them nice let them lie in the syrup two days. 
Drain the syi'upfrom the pears, add more sugar ; boil ten 
minutes, skim and put in the pears. Sinmier them until 
they are transparent ; then take them out, stick a clove 
in the end of eacli, and lay in a jar when cool. They may 
be flavoured with lemon. 



Gcufes. 483 

QUINCES. 

TJie Economical Cook Boole. 

Pare and core into quarters.. Boil until tender in a 
little water, turn them in an earthen vessel and let them 
remain one day. Boil and strain the parings and seeds 
which give a rich jelly liquid; to this add your sugar, 
clarify, and when hot lay in your fruit and scald it an 
hour gently. Skim it out, and boil the liquid until suffi- 
ciently thick, and pour over. Allow a pound of sugar to 
a pound of fruit. 

PLUMS. 

The Eeonomiccd Cook Book. , 

May be preserved nice with the skins on or off. If on 
they should be pricked at the top with a large needle ; if 
you take them oft", turn boiling water over them. Plums 
require a pound and a half of sugar to a pound of fruit. 
Prepare your syrup thick and lay in your plums to sim- 
mer, not boil. Let them remain in a scalding state until 
cooked through ; at least two hours. Then skim out and 
boil the liquor down about an hour. 

TO DRY CHERRIES AND PLUMS. 

The Economical Cook Book. 

Stone them and half dry them. Pack them in jars, 
strewing sugar between each layei". 'I'hey are very nice 
in pies and otherwise. 

GAGES. 

The EconoriticaJ Cook Book. 

Allow equal weights of sugar and gages. Make a S3''rup 
of white sugar and just water enough to cover the plums. 
Boil the plums slowly in the syrup ten minutes, turn 
them into a dish, and let them remain four or five days ; 



484 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

then boil them again till the syrup appears to have en- 
tered the phims. Put them in a china jar, and in the 
course of a week turn the syrup from them ; scald it, and 
turn it over them hot. 

CRANBERRIES. 

The Economical Cook Book. 

For each peck of cranberries allow two pounds and a 
half of brown sugar and a pint of molasses. Make the 
syrup of molasses, sugar, and a little water. When it boils 
put in the cranberries, and let them boil till transparent. 
To make cranberry marmalade, boil the cranberries in 
just water enough to prevent their burning ; strain them 
when soft, and add to each pound a pound and a half of 
brown sugar ; stew it over a slow fire, stirring constantly 
till it becomes a thick jelly. 

(QUINCES WHOLE. 

Select the largest and fairest quinces, as the poorest 
will answer for jelU^, pare them and take out the cores, 
boil the (|uinces in water till tender, take them out sepa- 
rately on a platter, to each pound of quinces allow a pound 
of sugar ; make the syrup, then l)oil the quinces in the 
syrup until clear. 

TO PIIESERVE ORANGES. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Boil oranges in clear water until you can pass a straw 
through the skins, then clarify three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar to a pound of oranges, and pour it over the fruit 
when hot; let them stand one night, then boil them in sy ■ 
I'up till they arci clear and the syrup thick ; take them 
from the syiup and stiain it clear over them. 



Raxpherry Vlner/ar. 485 

TO STEW PRUNES. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Put a pound of prunes into a small stewpan, with four 
ounces of white sugar, a small stick of cinnamon and three 
cloves, cover with water ; put it to boil gently for three- 
quarters of an hour or until the prunes are quite stiff; 
then take them out, strain the syru[) over them and serve 
cold. 

RECIPK FOR CURRANT WINE. 

Miss Robertson, Thorokl. 

Strain the currants, which should be perfectly ripe ; to 
each quart of juice put one quart of water and four pounds 
of suofar ; stir the whole well together and let it stand 
twenty -four hours without stirring ; then skim and set it 
in a cool place where it will ferment slowly; let it remain 
three or four days, and if it becomes clear it is fit to bottle. 

LEMON MARMALADE. 

Miss Emmeline lliompson, Ottawa. 

Two large apples, two lemons, two cupsful of white 
sugar, two nice fresh eggs, a small piece of butter. Grate 
the apple and rind of lemons, then add the juice, sugar, 
eggs and butter. Beat all well tf>gether and boil ten 
minutes. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Miss Robertson, Thorold. 

Put two quarts of fresh-gathered berries into a stone 
vessel and pour on them a quart of vinegar, let it stand 
twenty -four houis, and then .strain it through a sieve ; 
then pour the liquid over two quarts of fresh raspberries, 
and let it again infuse for a day and then strain it a se- 
cond time ; allow a pound of loaf-sugar to 'every pint of 
juice, break up the sugar and let it melt in the liquor, 



48(j The Canadian Economist. 

then put the whole into a stone jar, cover it closely and 
set it into a pot of boiling- water, which must be kept on 
a quick boil for an hour, take off all the scuin and when 
cold bottle the vinegar. It will keep for years. 

CURRANT .JKLLY. 

YouvKj LiixI.'k'h Juurnal. 

The currants should be ripe and freshly picked. Put 
them on the lire with only water enough to prevent burn- 
ing ; let them stew gently till they turn white; strain it 
half an hour, then put on spoonful on a plate and set 
on ice. If boiled sufficiently it will stiffen in live minutes. 
If it does not stiffen, boil longer ; try it every five minutes. 
When done strain through a very fine -sieve or coarse 
muslin into glass jars. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Yoiinfi Ladies Journal. 

Take ripe strawl)erries; pick them, and to every pound 
allow one pound of loaf sugar and one quarter of a pint 
of currant juice. Pound the sugar; pour the juice upon 
it. Boil the strawberries for twenty minutes, stirring 
well with a wooden spoon. Add the sugar and currant 
juice, and boil together on a hot porcelain plate for half 
an hour, carefully removing with a spoon all the scum 
as it rises. 

PRESERVED JELLIES AND JAMS. 

Young Ladies' Journal 

Fruits for preserving should be gathered in very dry 
weather, and should be as free from dust as possible. 
The usual proportion of sugar is one pound to every pound 
of fruit, but this quantity makes the jam too sweet for 
most tastes, and a lesser quantity will be sufficient if the 
fruit be well boiled before the sugar is added. Jam should 



Green Grapes Preserved. 487 

he kept in a dry, cool place, and if properly made will 
only require a small round of white paper, laid quite close, 
and to he tied "down to exclude air and dust. If there he 
the least damp in the closet, dip the whit« paper in 
hrandy, tie them dowTi as before, and look to them every 
two or three months. Boil them afresh on the least ap- 
pearance of iiKMildiness or mildew. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE. 

Young Ladies' Journal. 

Peel five oranges, taking away the rind and pips. Put 
the pulp into the preserving-pan, with the peel, cut very 
small ; add five pounds of rhubarb, cut small, and four 
pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the whole two hours and the 
fruit half an hour before adding the sugar. Three lemons 
instead of five oranges will make an agreeable change. 

APPI.E MARMALADE. 

Family Friend. 

Peel and core two ounces of sub-acid apples, and put 
them in an enammelled saucepan with one pint of sweet 
cider and one pound of crushed sugar, and cook them by 
a gentle heat three hours or longer, until the fruit is very 
soft, and then squeeze it through a colander and then 
through a sieve. If not sweet enough add powdered 
sugar to suit your taste, and put away in jars made air 
tight by a piece of wet bladder. It is delicious when 
eaten with cream or milk. 

GREENT GRAPES PRESERVED. 

Young Ladies' Journal. 

Pick them carefully, and reject any that are injured. 
Wash them, and to every pound of gi"apes allow three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar. Put the grapes into a pre- 
serving-pan, then a layer of sugar. Boil on a moderate 



488 The Canadian Eem^omist. 

tire, stirring it all the time to prevent its burning, and as 
the grape-stones rise take them out with a spoon, so that 
by the time the fruit is sufficiently boiled, about one hour, 
the stones will all have been taken out. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Pare and quarter the fruit ; put it in layers in a stone 
jug, with sugar sprinkled between each layer, add a tea- 
cupfull of water and bake it in a cool oven. Have a 
quantity of sugar equal in weight to the fruit. Allow 
one quart of water to every four pounds. Boil the sugar 
and water together, skimming it well. When the quinces 
are soft, add them with a quart of the juice which will be 
found in the jar. Boil them in the syrup, beating it 
with a spoon until the marmalade is quite smooth. 

OBSERyATIONS OX PRESERVING. 

A very common discovery made by those who preserve 
fruits, &c., is, that the preserve either ferments, grows 
mouldy, or becomes candied. These three effects arise 
from different causes ; the first from insufficient boiling ; 
the second from being kept in a damp place, assisted in 
some degree by the first cause ; and the third from boiling 
too quickly and too long. Pi-eserves of all kinds should 
be kept entirely secluded from the air and in a dry place. 
In ranging them on the shelves of a store closet, they 
should not be suffered to come in contact with the wall. 
Moisture in winter and spring exudes from some of the 
driest walls, and preserves invariably imbibe it, l)oth in 
dampness and taste. It is necessary, occasionally to look 
at them, and if they have been attacked by mould, boil 
them up gently again. To prevent all risks, it is always 
as well to lay a brandy paper over the fruit before tying 
down. This may be renewed in the spring. Fruit jellies 
are made in the ratio of a quart of fruit to two pounds of 
sugar. They must not be boiled quick nor very long; 



To Presen'c Strawben^es. 489 

practice and a general discretion will be found the best 
guides to regulate the exact time, which must be affected 
more or less by local causes. 

RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY ACID JELLY. 

Wai^e's Every-duy Cooheinf. 

To make one quart of jell}', take one bottle of the syrup 
or raspberry acid, half an ounce of isinglass oi" half an 
ounce of gelatine dissolved in half a pint of water; strain 
it off" and add it to the sjTup ; mix all well together and 
pour it into a jelly -mould. 

TOMATOES PRESERVED. 

Warnes Every-day Cookery. 

One pound of sugar to ever}' pound of tomatoes, and a 
quarter of a pint of water to each pound, two lemons ; 
take the small plum-shaped yellow or red tomatoes, pour 
boiling water over them and peel off the skins ; make the 
syrup of an ec^ual weight of sugar and a quarter of a pint 
of water to each pound, set it over the fire ; when the 
sugar is dissolved and boiling hot put in the tomatoes, 
let them boil very gently and stir in two lemons boiled in 
water until the peels are tender, and cut into very thin 
slices ; let it boil until the fruit is clear throughout and 
the syrup ricii ; then place the tomatoes on flat dishes 
and set them to become cold : boil the syrup until very 
rich and thick, and then set it to cool and settle. Put 
the tomatoes into jai-s or pots, pour the syrup over them. 
Cover them and keep them in a dry place. 

TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. 

TIte Domestic World, 

For bottling or preserving strawberries, except for jam 
they should be ripe, but not in the least soft. Make a 
s^'rupof a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit. The 



400 The Canadian Ecoiiomist 

sugar should be double refined, although refined sugar 
does very well ; tlie only difference is in the colour of the 
preserve, which is not so briliant as when done with other 
than crushed or l(jaf sugar. To each pound of sugar ])ut 
a teacupful of water ; put it over a gentle fire and stir it 
until it is all dissolved ; when boiling hot put in the fruit, 
having picked out every imperfect berry ; let them boil 
very gently in a covered kettle, until, by cutting one 
open, you find it cooked through ; that will be known by 
its havinof the same colour throuohout. Take them from 
the syrup VA'ith a skimmer and spread them on flat dishes 
and let them remain till cold ; boil the syrup until quite 
thick, then let it cool and settle. Put the fruit into jars 
or pots and strain or pour the syrup carefully over, leav- 
ing tlie sediment which will be at the bottom of the pit- 
cher. The next day cover with several papers wet with 
sugar boiled to candy. Set them in a cool, airy place. 

Strawberries keep perfectly well made with seven 
])Ounds of sugar to ten of fruit ; they should be done as 
directed above, and the syrup cooked quite thick. A pint 
of red-currant juice, and a pound of sugar for it to three 
pounds of strawberries, make the syrup very beautiful, 

GREEN GOOSEBERRY JELLY. • 

Family Friend, 

Boil one gallon of gooseberries in two quarts of water 
to a pulp, strain through a jellybag, and to every pint of 
juice put one pound of sugar. Boil until a deep red. 

PEACH JAM. 

Tiie Bazaar. 

Take fine soft peaches, yellow-fleshed ones make much 
the prettiest jam, scald and mash them well. To one 
pound of fruit, allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar, 
but do not put it in at once, letting the peaches get nearly 
done first. Boil for three hours, stirring all the time. 



rp<ir]> Chip^. 491 

This is the n\ost tryinsi preserve of all to make, on account 
of the incessant spitting of the hot mass as it thickens ; the 
best way is for the cook to be prepared with a long wooden 
ladle for stirring, at least a yard long, also to have the 
hands gloved, and a wet towel wrapped round the right 
arm. Be careful, too, to keep the lire steady, but rather 
low. It would not seem worth while to take so much 
trouble, but for a preserve so generally liked, and the jam 
when made, tied up closely in small jai-s, and previously 
covered with ])a|>ers, will keep for many years. 

PINEAPPLK .JELLY. 

Tlie Bozo/ir. 

Chop up two cansful of fresh pinea|)])le, and pour on it 
two quarts of boiling water. Add four teacupsful of 
white sugar, and the juice of two lemons; add a shilling 
box of gelatine to every three quarts of water. Strain 
through a flannel bag, and put into jelly moulds. 

PEACH CHIPS. 

The Bazaar. 

Twelve pounds of peaches, six pounds of sugar. Cut 
the peaches in slices. Make a syrup, and simmer them 
over the fire until they look clear ; then take out and lay 
on dishes to d r}^ Set the dishes in the sun, and when 
they are half dried, sift granulated white sugar over them, 
and turn them. Do this frequantly, until they are dried 
enough to be packed away in jars, in alternate layers of 
yjowdered sugar. The great hindrance to this process 
usually is met with in the attacks of bees, which are ex- 
cessively fond of this sweet meat, and make great depre- 
dations if the chance is allowed them. The best way to 
guard against their attacks, is to provide yourself with 
spreads of thin game or mosquito net, and cover the 
dishes carefully in the first instance, seeing that the gauze 
does not touch the fruit, which may be managed by draw- 



492 The Canadian Economist. 

nig it tight over the riin of the dishes. A hot sun will 
dry chips sufficiently in two or three days. 

TO PRESERVE QUINCES. 

7' lie Bazaar. 

Pare and core them nicely, and have some whole and 
some cut in large slices; put in a kettle, and boil until 
you can pass a straw easily through them ; then put them 
on dishes to cool. Take some of the water in w^hich they 
were boiled, make a syrup of one pound of sugar to one 
pound of fruit ; boil it, and when clarified, put in the fruit. 
Cover for a while with a large plate (it makes them light 
coloured), and let them boil slowl}^ until they are clear. 
Every now and then take them out of the kettle, and lay 
them singly on dishes to cool a little, and then put them 
back to cook more. This process is suitable for preserv- 
ing pears and peaches likewise. 

HOW TO COOK CRANBERRIES. 

Fani Uy Friend. 

Put them with only water enough to prevent burning, 
in a tinned saucepan and stesv until, by stirring, the whole 
becomes a homogenous mass, with no semblance of whole 
berries, and then add claritied syrup, previously piepared, 
and stir a few minutes while boiling ; when cold the 
cranberries will be found to have become amost delicious 

jelly. 

CANNED PLUMS. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Prick with a needle to prevent bursting; prepare a 
syrup, allowing a gill of pure water to a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, to every three quarts of fruit ; when the 
sugar is dissolved and the water blood-warm, put in the 
plums ; heat slowly to a boil, let them boil five minutes, 



Citron Melon Preserve. 493 

not last or they will break badly, fill up the jars with 
plums, pour in the scalding syrup until it runs down the 
sides and seal. Green gages are very fine put up in this 
way ; also damsons for pies. 

CANNED TOMATOES. . 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Pour boilinfj water over the tomatoes to loosen the 
skins, remove these, di-ain off" all the juice that will come 
away without pressing hard, put them into a kettle and 
heat slowly to a boil ; your tomatoes will look much nicer 
if you remove all the hard parts before putting them on 
the fire, and rub the pulp soft with your hands, boil ten 
minutes, dip out the surplus liquid, pour the tomatoes 
boiling hot into the cans, and seal ; keep in a cool dark 
place. 

CANNED TOMAT<JES AND CORN. 

Common Sense in the Househohl. 

Boil the com on the cob, when it is in nice order for 
roasting, twenty minutes over a good fire and cut ofl' while 
hot ; have your tomatoes skinned and rubbed to a smooth , 
pulp ; put in two measures of them for every one of the 
cut corn, salt as for the table and bring to a hard boil. 
Can quickly and set away in a cool dark place. 

CITRON MELON PRESERVE. 

Miss Beecher. 

Two fresh lemons to a pound of citron ; let the sugar 
be equal in weight to the lemon and citron ; take out the 
]Hilp of the citron and cut it in thin slices and boil it in 
fair water till tender, take it out and boil the lemon in 
the water about twenty minutes, take out the lemon, add 
the sugar and if necessary a little more water, let it bt^il, 
when clear add the melon and let it lioil a few minutes. 



494 The Canadian Economist. 

CHERRIES. 

Miss Beechev. 

Take out the stones ; to a pound of fruit allow a pound 
of sugar, put a layer of fruit on the bottom of the })reserv- 
ing kettle, then a layer of sugar, and continue thus till all 
are put in, boil till clear, put them in bottles hot and seal 
them ; keep them in dry sand. 

QUINCE MARMAL.\DE. 

Miss Beecher. 

Rub the quinces with a cloth, cut them in quarters, put 
them on the fire with a little water and stew them till 
they are sufficiently tender to rub them through a sieve ; 
when strained put a pound of brown sugar to a pound of 
the pulp, set it on the fire and let it cook slowly ; to as 
certain when it is done, take out a little "end let it get 
cold, and if it cuts smoothly it is done. Crab apple mar- 
malade is made in the same way. Crab-apple jelly is 
made like quince jelly. 

WHITE OR GREEN PIAJM. 

Miss Beecher. 

Put each one into boiling water and rub off the skin ; 
allow a pound of fruit to a pound of sugar ; make a syrup 
of sugar and water ; boil the fruit in the syrup twenty 
minutes, let the s3a-u{) be cold before you pour it over the 
fruit ; if you do not wish to take off the skins, prick then). 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 
CANDY. 



CARAMELS. 

Mit<s Mafjfjie Bunton, Bradford, Pa. 

ONE pound and a half of brown sugar, three parts of 
a cupful of milk, quarter of a pound of Baker's 
chocolate, butter the size of an egg. Stir constantly ; 
when it begins to thicken, try by dropping a little in cold 
water until it hardens, put on butter-plates, and before 
it is cold cut it in squares. 

VINEGAR CANDY. 

Miss Maggie Bunton, Bradford, Pa. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one cupful of good eider vinegai-, 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Boil until well 
done. Any quantity can be made, but be sure and have 
twice as much sugar as vinegar. 

HOME-MADE (REAM CANDY. 

Miss Maggie Bunton, Bradford, Pa. 

To a coffeecupful of white sugar, add two tablespoons- 
fid of water and boil without stirring, in a bright tin pan 
until it will crisp in water like molasses candy ; just be- 
fore it is done, put in a teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon, 
:i quarter of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. When done, 
pour in a buttered pan, and when cool enough to handle, 



496 The Canadian Economist. 

work it as you would molasses candy, until it is perfectly 
white. 

NUT CANDY. 

Two cupsful of white sugar, one cupful of water, two 
tablespoonsful of vinegar. Boil half an hour, and just 
before taking off the stove, add the kernels of any kind 
of nuts you prefer, chopped, 

coco AN UT DROPS. 

Miss Maggie Bunton, Bradford, P. A. 

Beat the whites of two eggs very thick with pulverized 
sugar, add one half of a half-pound package of cocoanut 
drops, on white and buttered paper, and set in the oven 
to dry. 

PRUNELLA DROPS. 

Mrs. Cruchet, Montreal. 

One cupful of butter, two cupsful of sugar, one cupful 
of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, flour to make it stiff enough to 
drop from the spoon ; flavour with vanilla, and bake in 
a (juick oven. 

(ANDY. 

Miss Ettie Durlc. 

Two cupsful of white sugar, or maple sugar, one cupful of 
thick cream. Boil together until thick. Add almonds 
and walnuts and pour into a buttered platter, 

TREACLE CANDY. 

Miss Elliott, Gtiel'ph. 

Take three (|uarts of the best treacle. Put it into a 
thick block -tin kettle, and stir in a pound and a lialf of 
the best and cleanest brown sugar. Boil slowly and skim 



Chocolate Caranuls. 497 

it well, stirring it always after skimming, and taking care 
it does not burn. Prepare the grated rind and the juice 
of three large lemons or oranges, and stir them in after 
the molasses and sugar have boiled long enough to be- 
come very thick. C'ontinue to boil and stir till it Avill 
boil no longer and the spoon will no longer move. Try 
some in a saucer and let it get cold. If it is brittle it is 
done. Then take it from the lire, and tiansfer it imme- 
diately to shallow, square tin pans, that have been well 
greased with nice fresh butter or sweet oil. Sj^read evenly 
and set it to cool. 

CARAMEL. 

Mrs. UrqiUiart, Peterborough. 

Quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of 
chocolate, one pound and a half of white sugar, one cup- 
ful of milk, vanilla flavouring ; melt the butter, stir in 
the other ingredients and keep stirring while the mixture 
l)oils. Boil twentv minutes or more accordinj; to de^jree 
of heat. 

EVERTON TOFFY. 

Mrs. (Rev. K.) McLennan, P.E.I. 

Three pounds of sugar, one cupful of molasses, half a 
cupful of water, half a pound of butter. 

KISSES. 

Miss Kemp. 

Beat the whites of nine eggs to a stiff froth ; mix with 
fifteen table.spoonful of pulverized sugar, six drops of 
lemon, drop on paper and sift sugar over them. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Miss Kemp. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one and a 
quarter cupsfal of water. When boiled mix in one half 
32 



498 Tlie Canadian Economist 

cupful of chocolate, butter the size of a hickory nut ; 
iiavour with vanilla. Pour them in biittere<l di-ipping* 
pans, cut in squares and eat when cold. 

TOFFY. 



Miss JRohertson, Tlioiv/d. 

One pound of brown sugar, quarter of a pound of butter^ 
a little water; flavour with lemon and boil over an hour; 
butter the plate you put it on and make it in thin layers- 

CREAM CANDY. 

Mrs lltompson, Point Fortune. 

Two cupsful of white sugar to one cupful of thick 
cream ; boil for ten minutes. Take from the stove and 
j)Our quickly into a meat platter. Almonds added increase 
the thickness of it. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

3fiss Junor, St. Marys. 

Two cupsful of sugar, one half cupful of water, boil ten 
minutes ; take from the fire and beat until cool. Flavour 
with vanilla, roll into balls. Three ounces of chocolate 
in a saucer steamed over the tea-kettle. Roll the balls 
in it. 

FRUIT DROPS OF LEMOX JUICE. 

Godet/'s Booh. 

Mix a quantity of lemon juice with sifted sugar, nearly 
thick enough for a spoon to stand upright in. Put it in 
a deep pan and make it quite hot on the fire, stirring it 
all the time, but do not let it boil or even come to a boil ; 
then mix in a small quantity more of sugar ; warm it, 
thenchalk the spout of the pan and with a small stick 
drop it on tin or pewter plates, in small drops. When cold, 
take them off the j^lates, and put them in the stove or sieve 
to dry. 



Barley Sugar. 499 

COCOA-NUT DROPS. 

Miss Eliza White, Hamilton. 

The white of one egg, one cupful of sugar, one grated 
cocoa-nut. Beat all together an;l <lrop in pyramid shapes 
on gi-ea.sed paper. 

GINGER DROPS A GOOD STOMACHIC. 

Godeys Book. 

Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar 
with a little sugar to a paste. Then mix one ounce of 
powder of white ginger, with one pound af loaf sugar.. 
Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil together to a 
candy, and drop it on paper as for lemon drop. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS. 

Godey's Bool: 

Poimd and sift four ounces of double refined sugar 
Beat it with the whites of two &gg^, till perfectly smooth 
then add sixty drops of oil of peppermint ; beat it well 
and drop on white paper as above, and dr\' at a distance 
from the fire. 

BARLEY SUGAR. 

Godey's Bool: 

Dissolve a pound and a half of lump sugar in half a 
pint of water with the white of half an egg ; when it is 
at candy height add a teaspoonful of strained lemon juice 
and boil it quickly till it recovers its previous condition. 
Pour it over a marble slab, and when it becomes stiff, cut 
it into strips and twist it. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 
PICKLING BRINE. 

SPICED BEEF FOR DRYING. 

3frs. R. Blaclchnrn, Neiv Edinburgh. 

TAKE a round of beef and pull it to pieces, with the 
hand, do not cut it ; roll each piece in coarse salt ; 
place it in an earthen dish for three or four days, re- 
peating the salting each day. Take one half of an ounce 
of cloves, one half of an ounce of ammonia, one quarter 
of an ounce of sugar ; mix all well together, and rub 
each piece of meat well with the spices. Continue rub- 
bing once a day until all the spice is used up, then let it 
stand three or four days. After which, hang in a dry 
warm place ; it will be ready for use in two weeks ; the 
small pieces, sooner; cut in thin slices, it is a nice relish 
for tea. 

TO PREPARE A ROUND OF P.EEF FOR P.AKING. 

Mrs. T/ios. McKay. 

Let it lie one night in common salt and saltpetre, and 
rub it very well. Then take a small quantity of allspice, 
mace, nutmeg, and black pepper ground very fine, rub 
one half on the beef at first, and the remainder a little 
every day for nine days, when it will be fit for baking. 
The quantity of spice depends on the size of the piece of 
beef. Light brown sugar must be mixed with the 
saltpetre and spice. The beef must be larded with 
some suet previous to baking it. 



Hamburg Pidefor Bleat. 501 

PICKLE FOR HAMS. * 

Mrs. {Rev. I)r.) Baines, Perth. 

To a full barrel of hams, three ounces of saltpetre, 
one and u half pounds of sugar or molasses, one half-pound 
of ground cloves, one half-pound of allspice, a pound of 
pepper, one and a half pounds of coarse salt to ev^ery gal- 
lon of water. Put the ingredients in with cold water 
and boil the whole for half an hour, and pour it on the 
hams hot or cold, as you think best. Rub the hams well 
with a little salt, and let them lie for twenty four houi-s 
to draw out the good, before putting them on the pickle. 
Leave them in the pickle for six weeks. 

DRIED MEAT. 

Mrs Thomas McKay. 

Beef, veal, venison and mutton ; rub on as much salt as 
will stick. Pack tightly all in the same cask. It may 
remain three or four weeks or lonjrer. 

A GOOD MODE OF SMOKING MEAT. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

Get a sugar hogshead, knock out the bottom, and set 
over a smoking fire of corn-cobs, walnut, maple or hick- 
ory, and a considerable share of dried dung. Cover it 
with boards. 

HAMHURG PICKLE FOR MEAT. 

Mrs {Rev. Dr.) Wardrope, Gaeiph. 

To four gallons of water add four pounds of salt, four 
ounces of saltpetre, one pound of veiy brown sugar, one 
tablespoonful of ground black pepper, one of white, one 
of alspice, oi>e of ginger, one half of cloves, one teaspoon- 
fid of led peppm-. Boil altogether ami skim, when cold 
pour it over the meat. 



502 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

TO SPICE A ROUND OF BEEF. 

Mrs. {Rev. Dr.) Wardrope, Guelph. 

Two pounds of salt, one pound of brown sugar, one 
half ounce of ground cloves, one ounce of black pepper, 
one ounce of white peppei", one teaspoonful of ca3'enne 
pepper, one half ounce of saltpetre. Mix all well together 
and rub well into the round, then put it into your 
tub and let it lie for three or four days. Then turn 
it every da}' for a month or six weeks. 

("URINU roRK. 

Mrs. McTa(jgart, Neiv Edinburgh. 

Nine pounds of salt, four pounds of sugar, two ounces 
of saltpetre, one ounce of soda, six gallons of water. Let 
the pork remain two months at the least. 

TO PRESERVE SMOKED MEATS. 

Mrs McTaggart, New Edinhurgh. 

Take ground black pepper, the finer the better ; wash 
all mould or soil off from the hams or beef, and while they 
aie damp rub them thorougldy with the pejiper. Two 
pounds of pepper will keep thirty pounds of meat free 
from flies or insects of all kinds. After being thus treated 
it can remain in the smoke-house or wood-house and not 
a tiy will approach it. It also improves the flavoui- of the 
meat. 

PICKLING BEEF. 

Family Friend. 

The Yorkshire hung beef has long been deservedly 
famous, and is thus easily prepared. C^ut in two the ribs 
or a round of beef or even a fine thick ♦lank — about 
twenty pounds weight of either for example. Finel}^ beat 
in a mortar for this quantity a half pound of bay salt, 



To Care Bacon. o03 

one quarter pound each of saltpetre and sal-prunella and 
two handsful of juniper benies; mix them with three 
pounds of common salt, and one pound of coai-se sugar, 
and thoroughly rub the beef all over for a considerable 
time. Let it lie in a good salting pan and rub it well 
with the piclke once a day for at least a fortnight, carefully 
turning it eveiy time. Then take it out, and after drying 
it well with a coarse cloth hang it up to the ceiling of a 
a warm kitchen, or in a chimney comer where only a 
moderate fire is kept till it becomes properly dried. It 
may be either boiled as wanted or cut into rashers and 
broiled, but in the latter case it will always eat much 
better if previously dipped into boiling water. 

TO PICKLE TONGUES. 

Tlie Bazaar. 

Cut oti* the root but leave a little of the kernel and fat. 
Sprinkle on some salt and let it drain fi-oni the brine 
imtil the next day. Then for each tongue mix a large 
handful of salt and a tablespoonful of saltpetre ; rub it 
well in and do so every day. In a week add a little more 
salt. If rubbed every day a tongue will be ready in a 
fortnight. Keep it afterwards in the tub of beef Vjrine. 

To CLfRE BACON. 

The Bazaar. 

Cut up the pork the day after it is killed. Use Liver- 
pool salt and rub every piece well on the skin. To each 
joint of meat take a dessertspoonful of saltpetre, and rub 
it on the flesh ; then rub all over again with salt and pack 
away in barrels, with the skin downward. Let it remain 
five or .six weeks, according to the temperature of the 
weather, for if freezing cold, the salt will not strike in so 
well as under other conditions. Rub in also a little black 
pepper, pounded and mixed with sugar. Have ready dry 



504 The Canadian Economist. 

ashes from hickory wood. Take the pork out of the tubs 
or boxes in which it has lain for salting, scrape off the salt 
and rub the ashes on. Hang it up and make good smoke 
every morning, taking care never to let the meat get 
heated. Smoke for some weeks. In March, wrap each 
ham in a newspaper, and then put it into a bag to hang 
lip for good. This insures safety from skippers. 

TO SPICE A ROUND OF CORNED BEEF. 

The Bazaar. 

Take a strong twine string and tie it tightly around 
the round, to keep it in good shape. Then stick it well 
on both sides with cloves, squeezing them in as far as 
possible; rub it also well with three tablespoonsful of 
pounded saltpetre, and then with plenty of fine salt. 
Lay it in a large wooden tray or round vessel that is light, 
and every other day turn it and rub well into it the brine 
which makes from it. In ten days, if properly attended 
to, it will be fit for use. 

bullock's LIVER. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Cut the liver in scores, and salt it with two pounds of 
salt for a fortnight, then let it dry for threadays, then 
well rub in two ounces of several kinds of spices, accord- 
ing to your judgment, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped 
very fine, also a good seasoning of onions and shalots, 
then hang it in a dry cellar for a time, and then put it in 
a bag for use. A small piece is sufiicient to make gravy 
for ducks and hash. It will keep many months, and be 
useful in the summer. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 
WASHING AND CLEANING. 



WASHING CLOTHES. 

Mis. BroiufJt, Ottawa. 

rir\\\0 pounds of soap is reduced with a little water to a 
I pulp, which, having been slightly wanned, is cooled 
in ten gallons of water, to which is added two spoonsful of 
ammonia and one tablespoonful of turpentine. Then the 
mixture is agitated. The water Is kept at a temperature 
which may be borne by the hand. In this solution the 
white clothes are put and left two houi-s before washing 
them with soap, taking care, in the meantime, to cover 
the tub. The solution may be wanned again and used 
once more, but it will be necessary to add half a spoonful 
of turpentine and another of ammonia. Once washed 
M'ith soap, the clothes are put in hot water and then blued. 
This process, it is obvious, saves much time, labour and 
fuel, while it gives to the clothes a whiteness much supe- 
rior to that obtained by any other proces.s, or by the de- 
structive use of the wash-board. 

HARD SOAP. 

J/r-. Bangs, (Jttaaa. 

Three pounds of soda (washing) three pounds of grease, 
one and a half pounds of lime, two gallons of- water, boil 
the soda and lime in the w^ater for a few minutes, take it 
off the fire and let it settle. Pour off the clear liquid, and 
to it add the grease and four ounces of rosin. Boil till of 



oOG Ihe Canadian Economist 

the consistency of a thick honey, Take ofi'the fire, pour 
in a shallow pan to cool, and when cold, cut in cakes and 
put it to dry. 

WASHING FLUID. 

Mrs. Win. M. Hutchison. 

One pound of sal soda, half a pound of stone lime, one 
ounce of borax. Put it into a pot with five quarts of soft 
water. Boil fifteen minutes, let it cool, then pour ofi* the 
clear. Put it in a jar and cork. 

RECIPE FOR BLEACHING COTTON. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Hutchison. 

One pound of the chloride of lime to ten gallons of 
water. Soak the cotton overnight in pure water; wring 
it out and put in the lime water. Dissolve the lime in 
hot water and strain it. Let the cotton remain half an 
hour, stirring it occasionally. This gradually will bleach 
fifty yards. 

WASHING BLUE. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Hutchison. 

Two ounces Prussian blue, two ounces oxalic acid, two 
quarts of water. Mix all well together. Bottle for use. 

POISON — SALTS OF LEMON FOR EXTRACTING IRON-MOULD. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Hutchison. 

Two ounces of cream of tartar, two ounces of salts of 
Horel mixed well together. 

TO REMOVE FRUIT STAINS FROM LINEN. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottaiva. 

Rub the part on each side with yellow soap, then tie 
up a piece of pearlash in the cloth and soak it well in hot 
water, or boil and afterwards expose the stain to the sun. 



To Glean Black Lace. 507 

ECONOMICAL SOAP. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

The addition of three quarters of an ounce of borax to 
a pound of soap melted in without boiling, makes a sav- 
ing of one-half cost of wash and three-fourths the labour 
of washing, and improves the whiteness of the fabrics, 
besides the more caustic effect is removed, and the hands 
are left with a peculiar soft and silky feeling, leaving 
nothing more to be desired by the most ambitious and 
economical washer. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One box of concentrated lye, four pounds of goo<I fat, 
otherwise five pounds, half potful of water, boil two hours. 
Put in a barrel and throw a boilerful of boilinsj water 
water over it. There should be five gallons altogether. 

TO REMOVE GREASE SPOTS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford Pa. 

To remove paint or grease spots from garments, mix 
four tablespoonsful of alcohol with a tablespoonful of salt. 
Shake the whole well together, and apply with a sponge 
or brush 

TO CL»iAX CARPETS. 

Young Ladies' Journal. 

A solution of ammonia and water, lukewarm, wiU, if 
well rubbed in carpets, take out all stains. Take one part 
of ammonia and three parts of water. 

TO CLEAN BLACK LACE. 

You ng Ladiet Journal. 

Take the lace and wipe off all the dust carefully with a 
cambric handkerchief; then pin it on a board, inserting a 



508 The Canadian Economist. 

pin in each projecting point of lace. Wash it all over 
with table beer, and do not remove the pins until it is 
perfectly dry. It w^ill look fresh and new. 

TO CLEAN CHINA. 

Family Friend. 

China is best cleaned, when very dirty, with finely 
powdered fuller's earth and warm water, afterwards 
rinsing it well in clean water. A little soft soap may be 
added to the water instead of fuller's earth. The same 
plan is recommended for cleaning glass. 

KID GLOVES. 

Mrs. White Bradford, Pa. 

Cream of tartar rubbed upon soiled white kid gloves 
cleanses them well. 

LINEN. 

Yoang Ladies Joiirnal. 

A tablespoonful of black pepper put in the first water 
in which grey and buff linens are washed will keep them 
from spotting. It will also generally keep the colours of 
black or coloured cambrics or muslins from running, and 
does not harden the water. 

TO TAKE OUT SPOTS OF PITCH, ETC 

Young Ladies Journal. 

To take out spots of tai", pitch, or turpentine from linen, 
silks, or woollens, scrape off as much as you possibly can ; 
afterwards moisten the places with salad oil, and let it 
remain for a day. If cotton goods, they should then be 
thoroughly washed in strong warm soap-suds ; or, if silk 
or woollen, apply some ether or spirits of wine to remove 
the crrease. 



Starching Cuffs and Collars. 50^) 

TO WASH NEW BLACK WORSTED STOCKINGS, 

Young Ladies' Journal. 

Let them be soaked all night and then washed in hot 
suds with a tablespoonful of ox gall to half a pint of 
water. Rinse till no colour comes out. Turn on the 
wrong side. 

TO TAKE INK STAINS OUT OF PAINT- 

Young Ladies Journal. 

Wash the spot with a cloth dipped in oxalic acid. In 
a few minutes wipe it oft' with a clean towel and cold 
water, and the spot will have disappeared. 

TO CLEAN HAIR-BRUSHES. 

Young Ladies Journal. 

A dessertspoonful of hartshorn to a quart of water in a 
wash-hand basin. Dip in the hair of the brushes and 
rub them together until clean. Then rinse well with cold 
water; rub dry with a towel, and stand upright at an 
open window. 

STAKCHING CUFFS AND COLLjVRS. 

Godeys Book. 

After washing and rinsing them, let them dry as if for 
ironing. Having made some starch a little thicker than 
cream, put them in, wring them out again, let them dry 
before the fire until they are fit for ironing, roll them in 
a cloth and iron. To give them a good gloss, take the 
end of a wax candle and stir it through the starch when 
quite hot, and do not let the iron be too hot. A little salt 
put into the starch when hot will prevent the iron from 
sticking, and some soap rubbed on it before using will 
answer the same purpose. 



510 The Canadian Economist. 

TO WASH NEW FLANNEL. 

Dominion MontJihj. 

Cut the soap small and boil in a little water. Have 
two tubs with water as soft as the hands can bear it, pre- 
viously blue the water well, to keep the colour of the 
flannel, and put some of the boiled soap into one tub to 
make a lather, then wash the flannel without squeezing 
it. Put it in the other tub and wring it in a large towel. 
Shake it out then, and after drying it, smooth it with a 
cool iron. 

TO PREVENT PRINTS FROM FADING. 

Godey's Book. 

The dress should be washed in a lather, and not by 
applying the soap in the usual way direct upon the mus- 
lin. Make a lather by boiling soap and water together, 
let it stand until it is sufficiently cold for use, and pre- 
viously to putting the dress in it, throw in a handful of 
salt, rinse the dress without wringing it in clear cold 
water into which a little salt has been thrown, remove it 
and rinse it in a fresh supply of clear water and salt. 
Then wring the dress in a cloth and hang it to dry im- 
mediately, spreading as open as possible so as to prevent 
one part lying over another. Should there be any white 
in the pattern, mix a little blue in the water. 

TO CLEAN SHAWLS. 

Family Friend. 

To clean white Shetland shawls, put the soiled article 
into a large bowl, throw over it half a teaspoonful of 
flour dry, rub thoroughly as if washing, and then care- 
fully shake out the flour. If the article is not clean, re- 
peat the process in clean flour. Articles cleaned by this 
process will retain a new look as long as there is one 
thread left. 



Gloss Starch. 511 

FLANNEI>S. 

Mrs. Thomas McKay. 

All flannels should be soaked before they are made up, 
first in cold and then in hot water, in order to shrink 
them. Welch flannel is the softest, and should be pre- 
ferred if it be to be worn next the skin, but Lancashire 
flannel looks finer and lasts longer, and should, therefore, 
be selected if the above is not its destination. Under 
flannel garments should be frequently changed, because 
they imbibe perspiration, which is liable to be obsorbed 
into the system, and this is injurious. All flannel gar- 
ments that are made full should be gathered, not pleated, 
because in the latter case they become thick and matted 
by washing, and in the event of their being turned from 
top to bottom in order to alter the wear, the part that 
had^been pleated will be found to be so drawn and injured 
that two or three inches will have to be cut oft". 

'JO WASH FLANNELS. 

Mrs. 'Thomas McKay. 

Put the flannels into a pan and pour boiling water up- 
on them ; then make a lather as hot as the hands can bear, 
take the flannel and wash it as quickly as possible. Put 
plenty of blue in the lather. Done in this way, flannel 
remains almost as soft as new, and is a good colour. 

GLOSS STARCH. 

Young Ladies Journal. 

For a gloss for shirt-bosoms, take two ounces of fine 
Gum Arabic powder, put it in a pitcher and pour on a 
pint of water ; cover it and let it stand over night. Pour 
carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle ; stock and 
keep for use. A teaspoonful of gum stirred into a pint of 
starch, made in the usual way, will make the most beau- 
tiful gloss on any linen or cotton goods, and will make 
lawn look like new. 



512 The Canadian Economist. 

FRUIT STAINS. 

Mrs. T/tomas McKay. 

They yield readily to bleaching powder, if after it is 
put on it be moistened with some acid, as vinegar or 
lemon, but never use acids to coloured things. 

TO WASH COLOURED STOCKINGS. 

Put a tablespoonful of salt in a quart of water. Let 
the stockings soak in that for ten minutes and then take 
them out and wash in soap and water. 

ox THE ART OF POLISHING SHIRTS AND COLLARS. 

From the English Mechanic. 

Put a little common wax in starch — say two ounces to 
the pound — then, if you use Glenfield or any other thin 
patent starch, be sure you use it warm, or otherwise the 
wax will get cold and gritty and spot your linen, giving 
it the appearance of being stained with grease ; it is dif- 
ferent with collar-starch ; it can be used quite cold — how- 
ever, of that anon. Now then, about polishing shirts. 
Starch the fronts and wristbands as stiff as you can. I 
always starch twice — that is, starch, dry, starch again. 
Iron your shirt with a box-iron in the usual way ; mak • 
ing the linen nice and firm, but without any attempt at 
a good finish ; don't lift the plaits. Your shirt is now 
ready for polishing, but you ought to have a board, the 
same size as a common shirt board, made of hard wood 
and covered with only one ply of plain cotton cloth. Put 
this board into the breast of your shirt, damp the front 
very lightly with a wet sponge, then take a polishing- 
iron, which is flat and bevilled a little at one end, polish 
gently with the bevelled part, taking care not to drive 
the linen up into wavelike blisters ; of course this requires 
a little practice, but if you are careful and persevere, in 
a short time you will be able to give the enamel-like finish 
which seems to be so much wanted. 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 
TO BANISH VERMIN AND INSECTS. 

TO KILL FLIES. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

PUT quassia chips into a saucer or plate, pour over 
them some hot water ; sweeten it with sugar or 
molasses. 

BED-BUGS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Wash the bedstead thoroughly with a strong solution 
of salt and water ; stuff the crevices with it. The bugs 
hate salt, and you will have no more trouble with them. 

HOW TO GET KID OF COCKROACHES. 

Rural A fairs. 

It is stated that the peelings of cucumbers placed in 
the way of cockroaches for three or four nights in succes- 
sion will entirely clear the house of these pests of the 
housekeeper. 

CHLORIDE OF LIME. — TO DESTROY INSECTS. 

Godey's Book. 

By scattering chloride of lime on a plank in a stable, 
biting fleas are driven away. Sprinkling beds of vege- 
tables with a weak solution of this salt effectually pre- 
serves them from caterpillars, slugs, moths, kc. It hag 
33 



514 The Canadian Economist. 

the same effect when sprinkled on fruit trees or shrub- 
bery, mixed in a paste with fatty matter, and applied in 
a narow band around the trees, it prevents insects from 
creeping up. 

REMEDY FOR BED-BUGS. 

Rural Affairs. 

Take a feather dipped in coal oil, apply it where the 
bugs are ; it will kill them at once. 

TO KEEP FLIES FROM HORSES. 

Mrs. White, Bradfoi^d, Pa. 

Procure a bunch of smart weed and bruise it to cause 
the juice to exude. Rub the animal thoroughly with the 
bunch of bruised weed, especially on the legs, neck, and 
ears. Neither flies nor insects will trouble him for twenty- 
four hours. 

To keep away mosquitoes. — Dip a piece of sponge or 
flannel in camphorated spirits, and make it fast to the top 
of the bedstead. A decoction of pennyroyal or some of 
the bruised leaves rubbed on the exposed parts will eflec- 
tually keep off" these troublesome insects. 

TO DESTROY INSECTS ON HOUSE PLANTS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Dust thoroughly with flour of sulphur. It is a sure 
remedy against insects. 

COCKROACHES. 

Boiv Bells. 

Take a teacupful of well- bruised plaster of Paris, mixed 
with double the quantity of oatmeal, to which add a little 
sugar ; then strew it on the floor or in the chinks where 
they frequent, and it will destroy them. 



To Destroy Flies in a Room. 515 

TO CLEAR VEGETABLES OF INSECTS. 

Gocley's Booh 

Make a strong brine of one po.und and a half of salt to 
one gallon of water ; into this place the vegetable (with 
the stalk ends uppermost) for two or three hours. This 
will destroy all the insects which cluster in the leaves, 
and they will fall out and sink to the bottom of the water. 

TO DESTROY FLIES. 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Strong gi'een tea, sweetened well, and set in saucere 
about the places where they are most numerous, will at- 
tract and destroy them. 

TO EXTERMINATE BEETLES. 

Godey's Book. 
Place a few lumps of unslaked lime where they frequent 

TO DESTROY FLIES IN A ROOM. * 

Godey's Book. 

Take half a teaspoonful of black pepper, in powder, one 
teaspoonful of brown sugar, and one tablespoonful of 
cream ; mix them well together, and place them in a room 
on a plate where the flies are troublesome, and they will 
soon disappear. 



5^ 




Lb. 


Oz. 


1 


7 


1 





1 





1 








2 


1 





1 






CHAPTER XXXVII. 
GENERAL INFORMATION. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Mrs. (Capt.) Coivley. 

ONE quart of powdered sugar 
One quart of sifted flour 
One pint closely packed butter - - - 
Ten egfifs -____-. 

Butter size of an egg - - - - - 
Three cupsful of sugar ----- 
Five cupsful of sifted flour - _ _ _ 

TO TAKE OUT INK SPOTS, 

Mrs. (Capt.) Cowley. 

Wet the place with a little tartaric acid dissolved in 
water, after which rinse well in clear water. 

USEFUL HINTS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

A bit of glue dissolved in skim milk will restore crape. 
Ribbons of every kind should be washed in cold suds and 
not rinsed. If your flat irons are rough rub them with 
flne salt and it will make them perfectly smooth. If you 
are buying a carpet for durability, choose small figures. 
A bit of soap rubbed on the hinges of a door will prevent 
it creaking. Scotch snufl" put in holes where crickets 



Cement. ol7 

come out will destroy them. Wood ashes and salt wet 
with water will prevent the cracking of a stove. 

CEMENT FOR SHELL WORK. 

Mrs. (Capt.) Coivley, 

Two ounces fine whiting, two ounces gum arable, half 
an ounce of tine flour, a teaspoonful of ox gall. Let the 
whole be dissolved and mixed well with wat^r into a 
thick paste. 

TO KEEP CREAM SWEET. 

Mural A fairs. 

Add a little white sugar to your cream, then heat it 
slowly and it will keep a long time. 

TO TAKE GREASE OUT OF WOOD 

A mixture of one part liquid ammonia, four parts al- 
cohol, with an equal quantity of water. Apply to spots 
with a piece of sponge, soaking the cloth thoroughly. It 
should be kept in a bottle that has a glass stopper. 

GREEN COPPERAS. 

Rural A fairs. 

Green copperas, dissolved in water, it is said will efl^ec- 
tually concentrate and destroy the foulest smells, and if 
it is placed near a bed in hospitals and sick rooms will 
render the atmosphere pure and clear. 

CEMENT. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Fa. 

A good cement for mending broken crockeryware mav 
be made by mixing together, equal quantities of melted 
glue, white of eggs and white lead, and boiling them to- 
irether. 



518 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Rural Affairs. 

Mincepie meat will keep well for several months, boiled, 
chopped and packed down in a stone jar covered with 
molasses. 

MOLASSES. 

Rural Affairs. 

The flavour of common molasses is much improved by 
boiling and skimming it before using. 

TO EXTRACT GREASE FROM PAPERED WALLS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

Dip a piece of flannel in spirits of wine, rob the greasy 
spots gently once or twice and the grease will disappear, 

TO CLEAN FURNITURE. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

One pint of linseed oil, one pint of vinegar, half a pint 
of spirits of wine or alcohol, shake before using. It gives 
a good polish and cleans the firniture. 

REMEDY FOR MILK TURNING SOUR. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

An effectual remedy for milk turning sour in summer 
consists in adding to each quart of milk 15 grains of bi- 
carbonate of soda. 

TO RESTORE COLOUR TO CLOTHES. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

When acid has been dropped on any article of clothing 
apply liquid ammonia to kill the acid, then apply chloro- 
form to restore the colour. 



Currants for Cakes. 5X9 

TO KEEP GRAPES. 

Mrs. James SeiverUjht, Gloucester. 

Take diy fine sawdust, and a tight box with a tight 
cover to it and go out to the trellis after the dew is oft', 
and after sprinkling an inch of sawdust over the bottom, 
put in carefully a layer of grapes, not too crowded, but so 
as to let the sawdust fall into all the intei-stices and so 
alternately and when the box is full, put a layer of saw- 
dust on top, tack on the cover, so as to exclude the air 
and set it on the cellar bottom in the coolest place. 

CELERY. 

Family Friend. 

The vii-tues of celery are vaunted in the Journal of 
Chemistry as being greater than people imagine.- Ner- 
vous people who shook like aspens and other deplorable 
cases have been radically cured by a moderate daily use 
of the blanched footstalks, taken as a salad, others have 
been cured of palpitation of the heart. In fact it is sug- 
gested that everybody engaged in labour weakening to 
the nerves, should use celery daily in the season and 
onions in its stead when not in season. 

CRICKETS. 

Family Friend. 

Crickets may be got rid of by throwing Scotch snuft 
into the holes out of which they come. 

CURRANTS FOR CAKES. 

^Family Friend. 

After they have been washed and picked, should be 
scalded, in order to swell them and make them eat better. 
Put the currants into a basin, pour boiling water over 
them, cover the basin with a plate; after standing a 



520 The Canadian Economist. 

minute, drain away the water and throw the fruit on to 
a cloth to absorb the moisture ; then put the currants on 
a dish or plate, in a very cool oven, turning them occas- 
ionally until quite dry ; dust a little flour over them and 
they will be ready for use. 

WORMS. 

Family FHend. 

It is always worth while in a library to take down the 
volumes when dusty and examine for w^orms. A mild 
solution of carbolic acid, one part of acid to forty parts of 
water is a valuable vermifuge to inject into the cracks of 
the wood-work. 

FRENCH MUSTARD (TO KEEP). 

Family Friend. 

Take mixed whole spices and boil in vinegar with two 
lumps of sugar ; then mustard into a stiff paste with cold 
vinegar ; with a red hot Italian heater stir quickly while 
you mix the boiling vinegar, after straining the spices. 
This wall keep for years well corked in a wide necked 
bottle. 

TOMATOES. 

Family Friend. 

Tomatoes picked when just ripe and with a portion of 
the stems retained and at once covered with a brine, com- 
posed of a teacupful of salt dissolved in a gallon of water, 
can be kept nearly all the year without noticeable loss of 
freshness or taste. 

cow's MILK. '^ 

Family Friend. 

With reference to the taking of cow's milk by persons 
who have a weak stomach, Dr. Schaal says he has always 



Boiling Water. 521 

succeeded in avoiding any evil effects by eating a little 
salt on bread either before or after taking the milk, when 
he omits to do this a single glass of milk will produce 
diarrhoea, whereas with salt he can take a whole glass. 

•"It will do to put the salt in the milk while drinking 
it, and having tried it for one month, we can say it is 
very good. Ed.] 

ECONOMY IN BREAD CRUSTS. 

Mrs. {Rev. J. M.) Ma^alister, Ashton. 

Brown well in the oven, roll them fine and keep in a 
clean bag for use in frying veal cutlets, fish-balls, &c. 

TO PROTECT DOORS WHILE CLEANING. 

Mrs. (Rev. J. M.) Macalister, Ashton. 

A bit of oilcloth with a hole in the centre, to slip over 
the knobs or bell-pulls while rubbing, will prevent deface- 
ment. 



FACTS OF VALUE TO THE HOUSEWIFE. 

SALT. 

Salt will curdle new milk ; hence in preparing milk 
porridge, gravies, kc, the salt should not be added until 
the dish is prepared. 

FRESH MEATS. 

Fresh meat after beginning to sour, will sweeten if 
placed out of doors in the cool air over night. 

BOILING WATER. 

Clear boiling water will remove tea stains and many 
fruit stains. Pour the water through the stain, and thus 
prevent it spreading over the fabric. 



522 The Canadian Economist. 



RIPE TOMATOES. 

Ripe tomatoes will remove ink and other stains from 
white cloth, also from the hands. 

TURPENTINE. 

A tablespoonful of turpentine, boiled with white clothes, 
will greatly aid the whitening process. 

BOILED STARCH. 

Boiled starch is much improved by the addition of a 
little sperm, or a little salt, or both, or a little gum-arabic 
dissolved. 

BEESWAX AND SALT. 

Beeswax and salt will make your rusty flat-irons as 
clean and smooth as glass. Tie a lump of wax in a rag 
and keep it for the purpose. When the irons are hot, rub 
them first with the wax rag, then scour with a paper or 
cloth sprinkled with salt, 

KEROSENE OIL. 

Kerosene oil will soften boots or shoes which have been 
hardened by water, and render them as pliable as new. 

KEROSENE. 

Kerosene will make your tin kettle as bright as new. 
Saturate a woollen rag and rub with it ; it will also remove 
stains from and clean varnished furniture. 

MACHINE GREASE. 

Cold rain water and soap will remove machine grease 
from washable fabrics. 

STAINS ON MARBLE. 

They can be removed by a mixture of one ounce of soda, 
a piece of stone lime, the size of a walnut, one-quarter of 



A Lemon. 523 

a pound of whiting and the same amount of soft soap. 
Boil this together ten or fifteen minutes, and then put the 
mixture on the marble while hot ; leave this on twenty- 
four houi-s, then wash ofl' with clean warm water, and 
polish first with soft flannel, and tlien with chamois skin. 

CELERY COOKED. 

Extract from an article in the London Times. 

Celery cooked is a very fine dish, both as nutriment and 
a purifier of the blood. I will not enumerate the marvel- 
lous ernes I have made with celery, for fear the medical 
men should, like the com-dealers, attempt to worry me. 
Let me fearlessly say, rheumatism is impossible on such 
diet. Plainly let me say, cold or damp never produces 
rheumatism, but simply develops it. The acid blood is 
the primary cause and sustaining power of evil. While 
the blood is alkaline, there can be no rhumatism, and 
equally no gout. 

TO COOK CELERY. 

Cut the celery into inch dice; boil in water until soft. 
No water must be poured away unless drunk by the in- 
valid. Then take new milk, slightly thicken with flour, 
and flavour with nutmeg ; warm with the celery in the 
saucepan, serv^e up with diamonds of toasted bread round 
the dish and serve warm. Eat with potatoes if you wish. 

A LEMON. 

Godey's Book. 

It may not be generally known that placing a lemon 
that has been carefully pared without breaking the thin 
inner white skin, inside a wild-duck, and keeping it there 
forty- eight hours before cooking, will remove all traces of 
a fishy flavour, and game may be kept a long time by 
putting a little finely powdered charcoal in a muslin bag 



524 The Canadian Economist. 

in tlio inside of a bird or rabbit, etc., the charcoal being 
changed daily. 

WORTH KNOWING. 

Godey's Booh. 

Boil three or four onions in a pint of water ; then with 
a gilding brush do over the frames of your pictures and 
chimney glasses, and rest assured that the flies will not 
light on the articles washed with the solution, 

GERMAN POLISH FOR FURNIIURE. 

Godey's Booh 

Put in a pipkin over a slow fire, four ounces of yellow 
wax, and one ounce of powdered black rosin ; when melted, 
add gradually two ounces of spirits of turpentine, and mix 
them well together. This composition should then be put 
into a bottle and securely corked. If some of this vainish 
be spread over the furniture with a piece of cloth and 
well rubbed in it will cause the article to appear as if 
varnished. 

CEMENT. 

Godey's Booh. 

A cheap and very useful cement is made by dissolving 
twopenny worth of shellac in naptha, a little at a time ; 
when the mixture is of the thickness of thick cream, it 
will mend wood, china, glass, jet, or anything in which a 
brown colour is not disfigurement. 

LIME-WATER, 

Godey's Book. 

Lime-water is easily made by pouring water over fresh 
slaked quick lime and pouring off the clear solution ; it 
should not be given to children except under medical 
advice. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
THE COMPLEXION, HAIR, TEETH, kc. 



TOILET WASH. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

ri "^ AKE a glass-stoppered bottle, put into it of the leaves 

I of the rose, then pour on some glycerine ; let it 

stand four weeks. When you want to use it pour a little 

into a bowl of water. Wash your face and hands in it. 

PREPABATION FOR THE HAIR. 

Mrs. J. M. Garland. 

Two ounces of castor oil, two ounces of ba}' rum, and 
one ounce of spirits of ammonia. Shake well together, 
and apply to the skin once a week, or oftener, if the hair 
needs it. 

DENTRIFICES 1, 2, 3. 

Dr. G. M. Hutchison. 

1. 

Prepared chalk twelve ounces, oitis root one and a half 
ounce, glycerine two ounces, tincture of mjn-rh six drach- 
mas. Mix thoroughly into a stiff paste. 

2. 

Prepared chalk four ounces, orris root four ounces, oil 
of cinnamon half an ounce, white sugar four ounces, oil 
of rose three drops, oil of lemon twenty drops. 



o2C The Canadian Economist 



Equal parts of prepared chalk and cuttle fish, alcohol 
twelve ounces, honey eight ounces, tincture of myrrh one 
ounce, spirits of lavender one and a half ounce, oil of 
wintergreen one and a half drachms, castile soap half a 
cake, water, q. s., one quart. 

Shave the soap fine. Put it into the alcohol with an 
equal part of water. Dissolve it in a water bath. When 
luke-warm add the honey. When cool, the other parts 
with enough water to make a quart. 

COSMETIC SOAP. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

One quarter of a pound of castile soap, cut into small 
pieces, then put into a tin saucepan with just water 
enough to moisten it well, and set it on hot coals, simmer 
till dissolved ; stir till smooth ; thicken with oatmeal. 
Take from the fire, and when cool scent with rose-water 
or any other essence. Stir it hard with a silver spoon, 
and when thoroughly mixed, put it into pots with 
coveiu 

TO KEEP THE HANDS CLEAN AND SMOOTH. 

Mural A fairs. 

Procure a piece of pumice-stone at a drug store and 
grind one side smooth on a grind-stone. When the hands 
are rough and dirty, wash them in soap-suds, and rub 
them with the smooth side of the pumice-stone. Keep 
the pumice-stone wet when using it, as it will be more 
effective when it is wet than when it is dry, 

GLYCERINE SOAP FOR CHAPPED HANDS, LIPS, ETC. 

Mrs. White, Bradford. 

Take toilet soap, slice, and melt with gentle heat, and 
add to it one pound of soap and one ounce of pure 
glycerine. When sufficiently cool, melt in balls. 



Curling Fluid. 527 

SOFT HANDS. 

Mrs. White, Bradford. 

For making the hands soft and white, take some dry 
Indian meal, wet your hands and rub them with it, then 
rub them with soap and tepid water. 

LIP SALVE. 

Miss D., Kingst(yn. 

Melt together an ounce of white wax, the same of ox- 
marrow, three ounces of spermacetti, with a small piece of 
alkanet-root tied in muslin. Perfume with anything to 
suit the taste. 

INVALUABLE DENTRIFICE. 

Miss D., Kingston. 

Dissolve half a small teaspoonful of powdered borax in 
half a pint of tepid water, add to it six or eight drops of 
tincture of myrrh. 

BALSAM FOR CHAPPED LIPS. 

Godey's Book. 

Take a spoonful of clarified honey, with a few drops of 
lavender water, or any other perfume. 

CURLING FLUID. 

Book of Fashion 

Place two pounds of common soap cut small, into three 
pints of spirits of wine, with eight ounces of potash, and 
melt the whole, stirring it with a clean piece of wood. 
Add, on cooling, essence of amber, vanilla and neroli, of 
each a quarter of an ounce. The best method of keeping 
ringlets in curl is the occasional application of the yolk 
of an egg, and the hair washed in clear lukewarm water. 
Apply the egg with a tooth or hair brush. 



528 The Canadmn Economist. 

WHISKERS AND MUSTACHIOS. 

Bow Bells. 

To promote their growth, rub in the following lotion, 
three or four times a week, at night time : Eau de cologne 
two ounces ; tincture of cantharides, two ounces ; oil of 
rosemary and oil of lavender, of each ten drops. 

FOR THICKENING THE HAIR. 

Book of Fashion. 

To one ounce of Palma Christi oil, add a sufficient 
quantity of bergamot or lavender to scent it. Apply it 
to the parts where it is most needed, brushing it well 
into the hair 

TO WHITEN THE NAILS. 

Book of Fashion. 

Diluted sulphuric acid, two drachms ; tincture of mj^rh, 
one drachm, spring water four ounces ; mix. First cleanse 
with white soap, and then dip the fingers into the mix- 
ture. 

TO WHITEN THE HANDS. 

Book of Fashion. 

Take a wineglassful of Eau de Cologne and an^fcer 
of lemon juice, then scrape two cakes of brown WincHw' 
soap to a powder, and mix well in a mould. When hard, 
it will be an excellent soap for whitening the hands. 

CERTAIN CURE FOR SOFT CORNS. 

Book of Fashion. 

Dip a piece of soft linen rag in spirits of turpentine and 
wrap it round the toe in which the soft corn is, night and 
morning. In a few days the corn will disappear, but the 
relief is instantaneous. 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 
SUMMER AND OTHER BEVERAGES. 

LEMOX ACID. 

Miss Mary Brough, Ottawa. 

Four pounds of loaf sugar, five pints of water ; boil 
together slowly for half an hour. Put two ounces of citric 
acid in an earthern pan and pour over it the hot syrup ; 
when cold, flavour with essence of lemon — a ten cent bot- 
tle is enough. Bottle for use. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Mrs. Donaldson. 

Peel and grate the pineapple, add the sugar, and let 
stand several hours, then strain through a bag ; add a 
pint of water for each pineapple. After putting in the 
freezer, add the whites of three eggs well beaten. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Mrs. Horsey Ottawa. 

Two and a half ounce of tartaric acid, two pounds of 
sugar, three-quarters of an ounce of Rochelle salts, nearly 
boil the above ; lake it off the tire, add the well-beaten 
whites of two eggs, strain and cool, and pour from the 
sediment into bottles. Take a wineglassful of the mix- 
ture to a tumbler nearly full of cohl water, add a few 
drops of lemon and a spoonful of sfxla. 



530 The Canadian Economist. 

HOME-MADE GINGER BEER. 

Mrs Kennedy, Owen Sound.. 

To a gallon of boiling water add three-quarters of a 
pound of brown sugar, one ounce of bruised ginger, half 
an ounce of cream of tartar, two lemons ; when nearly 
cold, add a tablespoonful of good 3'east. In twelve hours 
bottle, and in twenty-four hours it will be fit for use. 

LEMOX SYRUP. 

Mrs. {Rev. K.) MacLennan, P. E. I. 

Three quarts of water to three pounds of sugar ; boil 
five minutes ; put it into a basin with one ounce of tar- 
taric acid and let it dissolve ; flavour with lemon. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Mrs. Ihonias McKay. 

Five ounces of tartaric acid, one and a half ounce Ep- 
som salts, four pounds of white sugar, four quarts of water, 
four eggs, the whites only. Mix the fii'st four ingredients 
in a pot and let them nearly boil, take oft", and when cold, 
add the whites of eggs and lemon or other essence to 
taste, then bottle. Pour about two tablespoonsful into a 
tumbler nearly full with water; add a little baking soda 
on the point of a spoon and stir briskly. 

FOR NECTAR OR SODA (nO. 2). 

Book of Fashion. 

To two quarts of boiling* water add one pint of mo- 
lasses and two pounds of coffee sugar. Let it boil alto- 
gether and skim it, add four ounces of tartaric acid, after 
which let it boil ten minutes, then strain it and when 
cold, add the whites of six eggs, well beaten. Cork up. 
For use, add two tablespoonsful of the mixture to a tum- 
blerful of water, stirring in it at the moment of drinking, 
a lump of soda a little larger than a pea. 



Strau'herry SUcrhed. 531 

NECTAB. 

Miss McRae, Ren f rev:. 

Take two pounds of white sugar, and two quarts of 
soft water, boil for a quarter of an hour. WTien cool, put in 
the whites of four eggs and a quarter of a pound of tartaric 
acid, strain and bottle. Put a dessertspoonful in a glass 
with water, and add a small teaspoonful of common bak- 
ing soda. Drink duiing effervescence. A delicious sum- 
mer drink. 

GINGER BEER. 

J//-.S. McTaggart, Xeiv Edinburgh. 

Two gallons of. water, two povmds of white sugar, two 
ounces of biniised ginger. Boil these one hour ; then put 
into a large crock and add half an ounce of cream of 
tartar, one lemon sliced thin, one cupful of yeast (baker's) 
let stand two days, or till it begins to ferment. Then 
strain and bottle, 

AilBROSIA (a SUMMER DRINK). 

Miss Robertson, Thorold. 

Five and a half pounds of white sugar, dis.solved in a 
gallon of water, then add five ounces of tai'taric acid, the 
whites of two eggs beaten well, strain the whole, add es- 
sence of lemon or ginger to your taste. Bottle it, and it 
will keep for months. Directions for use : To half a glas.s- 
f ul of water, a small half-teaspoonful of scda, pour in the 
ambrosia. 

.STRAWBERRY SHERBERT (DELICIOUS). 

Mrs. (Rev.) A. Scott, Ouen Sound. 

One quart of strawberries, three pints ot watei-, one 
lemon, juice only, one tablespoonful of orange-flower 
water, three-quarters of a pound of white sugar. The 



532 TJie Canadian Economist. 

strawbenies should be fresh and ripe. Crush to a sraootli 
paste, add the rest of the ingredients, except the sugar, 
and let it stand three hours. Strain over the sugar, 
squeezing the cloth hard, stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
Strain again and set in ice two hours before you use it. 

STRAWBERRY VINEGAR. 

Miss Beecher. 

Put four pounds of very ripe strawberries, nicely 
dressed, to three quarts of the best vinegar, and let them 
stand three or four days. Then drain the vinegar through 
a jelly-bag, and pour it on to the same quantity of fruit. 
Repeat the process in three days a third time. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Miss Beecher. 

Take the juice of a dozen oranges, and pour a pint of 
boiling water on the peel, and let it stand covered half an 
hour. Boil a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of watet", skim, 
and then add the juice and the water from the peel to the 
sugar. Strain it and cool with ice or fi-eeze it. The juice 
of two lemons and a little more sugar improves it. 

GRAPE WINE (^SIMPLE AND PERFECT). 

The Bazar. 

One quart of grape juice, three quarts of water, two 
and a half pounds of common brown sugar. Keep in an 
open barrel nine days, covering only with muslin to ex- 
clude insects ; then put in a close cask, fastening the bung 
and set it aside till spring. Then rack off and bottle. 

ORANGEADE. 

The Ba,zar. 

The SOU]' oranges, which are so plentiful in the spring, 
and too acid for eating purposes, may be utilized in this 



Raiain Wine. 533 

way. Kub them well, squeeze and strain the juice, just 
as lemons for lemonade ; six high-flavoured oranges should 
be enough to acidulate sufficiently one quart of water, 
and to quantity put a heaping cupful of white sugar. 

GOOD NECTAR. 

TJie Bazar. 

Take two pounds of raisins chopped, and four pounds 
of loaf sugar, and put them into a pot. Pour two gallons 
of boiling water upon them. The next day, when it is 
cold, slice two lemons into it. Let it stand five days, stir- 
ring it twice a day. Then let it stand five daj's more to 
clear, bottle it, put it into a cold cellar for ten days, and it 
will be fit to drink. 

ORANGEADE. 

Godey's Book. 

Roll and press the juice from the oranges in the same 
way as from lemons. It requires less sugar than lemonade. 
The water must be pure and cold, and then there can be 
nothing more delicious than these two kinds of drinks. 

GINGERADE. 

Bolu Bells. 

Take Jamaica ginger-root, two and a half ounces, boil- 
ing water one pint, lump sugar two and a half pounds, 
citric, two drachms ; bruise the ginger-root, infuse it four 
hours in water, and to the strained liquor add the sugar, 
and dissolve it with the aid of heat. Remove the scum, 
and lastly add the citric acid. 

RAISIN WINE. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

One pound of white sugar, two pounds of raisins seeded 
and copped, one lemon, all the juice and half the grated 



534 The Canadian Economist. 

peel, two gallons of boiling water. Put all into a stone 
jar, and stir every day for a week, strain then and bottle 
it. It will be fit for use in ten days. 

CRAXBEPJir WINE. 

Common Sense in the Household. 

Mash ripe berries to a pulp, put into a stone jar, add 
one quart of waiter to two quarts of berries. Stir well, 
and let it stand two days. Strain through a double flan- 
nel bag. Mash a second supply of berries, equal in quan- 
tity to the fii-st, and cover with this liquid. Steep two 
days more, strain, add one pound of sugar for three quarts 
of liquor, and boil five minutes. Let it ferment in lightly- 
covered jars. Rack off and bottle. This is i>aid to be 
good for Scrofula. 

SARSAPi^RILLA MEAD. 

Miss Beecher. 

One pound of Spanish Sarsaparilla. Boil it in four 
gallons of water five houi-s, and add enough of water to 
have two gallons, add sixteen pounds of sugar, and ten 
ounces of tartaric acid. To make a tumblerful of it, take 
half a wineglassful of the above, and then fill with water, 
and put in half a teaspoonful of soda. 

SUMMER BEVERAGE. 

Miss Beecheo\ 

Ten drops of oil of sassafrax, ten drops of oil of spruce, 
ten drops of oil of wintergi-een, two quarts of boiling 
water poured on to two great spoonsful of cream of tartar. 
Then add eight (quarts of cold water, the oils, three gills 
of distillery yeast (or twice as much home-brewed), and 
sweeten it to the taste. In twenty-four hours bottle it 
and it is a delicious beverasfe, 



CHAPTER XL. 
COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 

APPLE V.'ATER. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

TAKE one tart apple well baked, mash it well, pour on 
it ofie pint of boiling water, beat them well to- 
gether, let it stand to cool, then sti^ain for use, sweeten 
with loaf sugar. 

BEEF TEA. 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Cut one pound of the lean fresh juicy beef into small 
thin slices ; sprinkle them with a very little salt ; put it 
into a wide-mouthed stone jar, closely corked ; set it into 
a pot of water, make the water boil, keep it there one 
hour and a-half , then take out the jar. Strain the essence 
of the beef into a bowl. Chicken tea may be made in the 
same way. 

calves' feet jelly. 

(From 3Iiss Parloas Lectures.) 

Per Mrs. Humphreys, Providence, B.I. 

Miss Parloa said this jelly was constantly used by Miss 
Charlotte Cushman, and is very strengthening. Put a shin 
of beef weighing about ten pounds, and six calves feet, 
after washing, into six quarts of cold water. Reduce it 
by gentle boiling to three quarts ; strain and set it away 



536 The Canadian Economist. 

to cool. When cold remove the fat, put the jelly into a 
kettle and salt it ; let it boil up once, and strain through 
a cloth. Set in a cool place, it will keep in cool weather 
two weeks. It may be spiced if liked with two whole 
cloves and a stick of cinnamon, and made clear by using 
the white of an egg and a cup of cold water. 

CHICKEN JELLY, 

Mrs. Fraser, Almonte. 

Take a large chicken, cut it up into very small pieces, 
braise the bones ; put the whole into a jar with a cover 
that will make it water-tight. Set the jar into a kettle of 
boiling water ; keep it boiling three hours, 

WINE JELLY. * 

31rs. McNacldan, Cobourg, 

One cupful of gelatine, soaked for two hours in a large 
cupful of water,two cupsful of white wine, one lemon. Add 
the juice and half the grated peel,one teaspoonful of bitter 
almond extract, two cupsful of white sugar, two cupsful 
of boilino; water. Put soaked gelatine, lemon, sugar and 
flavouring together and cover closely for half an hour. 
Pour on boiling water, stir and strain, add the wine, strain 
again through a flannel bag without squeezing and pour 
in a mould. 

WINE JELLY, 

Mrs. Stitt, Ottawa. 

Ingredients : — One package marked 9d. Cox's Gelatine, 
four lemons, half a pint of wine, whites of two eggs, sugar 
(white), and cinnamon bark. Soak the gelatine in one 
pint of cold water, when quite soft add one pint of boil- 
ing water, half a pint of wine (Sherry), juice and pulp 
of four lemons, sugar and cinnamon to taste. Place over 
the fire, and before boiling add the beaten whites of two 



Nourishing Soup. y37 

eggs. Let it boil one minute before straining. Strain 
it through flannel into jelly shapes that have been first 
dipped into cold water. Place in the ice to stiffen. 

CHICKEN JELLY (FOR INVALIDS). 

Mrs. McKenzie, Almonte. 

Put a fowl into a pan (an old one preferred), also a 
hough of beef, with carrot, turnip and salt (no pepper), 
a sufficient quantity of water, so as to allow of slow boil- 
ing for twelve hours without adding any water. Put it 
throucjh a sieve into a larjje dish, let it cool, take off the 
fat, use it either cold as a jelly or melted as soup, with some 
toast. 

WINE JELLY. 

Miss Minnie White, Hamilton. 

Dissolve a box of Cox's gelatine in a pint of water. 
Pour over it one quart of boiling Water, rind and juice of 
two lemons, almonds, one quart of sugar, and one pint of 
wine. Strain and put it in moulds to cool. 

PREPARING FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 

Mrs. Hiujh Young, Sand Point. 

A very simple and expeditious way of cooking a little 
bit of chicken or fish for a sick person is to butter a paper 
thickly, place the food to be cooked within the paper and 
place on a gridiron over a slow fire. A very short time 
will suffice to cook it thoroughly. 

NOURISHING SOUP (FOR INVALID.s). 

Family Friend. 

Boil two pounds of lean veal and a quarter of a pound 
of pearl barley in a quart of water verj- slowly until it 
becomes the consistency of cream, pass it through a fine 



538 The Canadian Economist. 

sieve and salt to taste, flavour it with celery seed, if the 
taste be liked, or use fresh celery, if in season ; a very 
small quantity of seed would suffice ; it should simmer 
very slowly, as otherwise the barley does not properly 
amalgamate with the soup. It is called barley cream, and 
will not keep more than twenty-four hours. Beef may 
be used instead of veal. 

calves' feet jelly. 
Mrs. A. Scott, Ottawa. 

Four ounces gelatine, five ounces sugar, four eggs, one 
glassful of pale brandy ; have ready a clean pan, put in 
one quart of water with gelatine, boil till properly melted, 
add a little more water, put in the eggs and shells and su- 
gar, let it come to a boil, then strain through a flannel bag, 
if not clear enough strain twice ; flavour with a little 
lemon. 

BLACK CURRANT JAM WATER. 

Godey's Book. 

Put two tablespoonsful of the jam with a pint of water 
into a perfectly bright tin saucepan and allow them to 
simmer for half an hour, strain it, and if for a cold take 
it as hot as possible ; when required to allay thirst the 
drink will be given cold; in cases of sore throat a table- 
spoonful more jam will be used. This method of making 
jam water is better and more economical than merely 
pouring boiling water on the jam. 

RICE WATE?. 

Godey's Book. 

Wash two ounces of best rice and boil it f^lst for half 
an hour in a quart of water, any flavouring may be added, 
or a small stick of cinnamon or shred lemon peel may be 
boiled with the rice and sugar used according to circum- 
stances; lemonade made with the rice water when cold is 
very refreshing. 



Barley Water. 539 

GUM A R ABAC WATER. 

Put into an earthenware jar an onnce of the finest 
picked gum witli two ounces of sugar candy and a pint of 
water, set it in a saucepan of water and stir occasionally 
until dissolved ; this is very useful as a night drink for 
hectic cough and will allay the tickling of the throat ; it 
should be kept as hot as possible. 

LINSEED TEA. 

Godeys Book. 

Boil gentl}' for two hours two ounces of linseed in a 
pint and a half of water with a little lemon peel shred 
finely and an ounce of barley sugar, strain and add enough 
of lemon juice to make it agreeable. This is useful for a 
cough and should be taken warm. Spanish licorice may, 
if liked, be boiled with the linseed. 

SAGO. 

Godey's Book. 

To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water one 
hour, pour that off and wash it well, then add more, and 
simmer gently till the seeds are clear with lemon peel and 
spice, if approved ; sweeten and boil all up together. 

TAMARANDS OR GRANDER KY JUICE. 

Godeys Book. 

These, with double the quantity of water, form a plea- 
sant drink in fever or for an invalid when approaching 
convalescence. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Godey's Book. 

One ounce of pearl barley, half an ounce of white sugar 
and the rind of a lemon ; pi»t. it into a jug, pour upon it 



51-0 Tlie Canadian Economist. 

one quart of boiling water, and let it stand for eight or 
ten hours, then strain off the liquor, adding a slice of le- 
mon if desirable ; this infusion makes a most delicious and 
nutricious beverage, and will be grateful to persons who 
cannot eat the horrid decoction usually given. 

ARROWROOT CUSTARD FOR INVALIDS. 

Miss Beecher. 

One tablespoonful of arrowroot, one pint of milk, one 
egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, mix the arrowroot with a 
little of the cold milk, put the milk into a sauce|)an over 
the fire, and when it boils stir in the arrowroot and the 
egg and the sugar well beaten together ; let it scald, and 
pour it into cups to cool ; a little cinnamon boiled in the 
milk flavours it pleasantly. 

SIMPLE WINE WHEY. 

Miss Beecher. 

Mix equal quantities of water, milk and white wine, 
warm the milk and water, and then add the wine, sweeten 
it to taste. 




CHAPTER XLI. 
SPECIFICS AND REMEDIES. 

FOR TREITMENT OF DYSENTRY. 

Mrs. Brough, Ottawa. 

BEAT one egg in a teacup, add one tablespoonful of 
ground spice. Fill the cup with sweet milk. Give 
the patient a tablespoonful once in ten minutes, until re- 
lieved. 

TRFATMEXT FOR ALL KINDS OF SCIATICA AND NEURALGIC 

PAINS. 

Mrs. Brough,'Ottaiva. 

Heat a flat iron or brick sufficiently hot to vaporize the 
vinegar, then cover it with flannel, and moisten with 
vinegar, and apply at once to the painful spot ; the appli- 
cation may be repeated two or three times a day. As a 
iiile the pain disappears in twenty-four houi-s, and re- 
covery ensues all at once. 

RECIPE FOR NEURALGIA. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Camphorated oil or camphorated spirits, half an ounce ; 
strongest ammonia spirit, half an ounce. Apply to the 
temple or behind the ears, for from five to seven minutes, 
until blistered. Take a piece of linen, about four thick- 
nesses ; put on as much stuff a.s will cover a twenty-five 
cent piece. — Attested, A. Douglas. 



o42 TJic Canadian Economist. 

RAW ONIOXS. 

Mrs. B rough, Ottawa. 

Dr. Balfour, in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, re- 
cords three eases in which mucli benefit w^as afforded 
patients by the eating of raw onions in large quantities ; 
they acted as a diuretic in each. instance. 

A HEALING SALVE. 

Mrs: Carson, Kingston. 

Half a pound of mutton suet, rendered and strained, 
half a pound of beeswax, half a gill of spirits of turpen- 
tine. To be mixed together when warm. 

BURNS AND SCALDS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 
Lime water and linseed oil ; wrap in old linen rags. 
CHILBLAINS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Lay on a rag, wet with warm water, in which you have 
dissolved a large lump of saltpetre. Make the water as 
strong as possible of the saltpetre. 

SORE THROAT. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Steep some red-peppers in cider, use as a gargle, swal- 
low^ing a little occasionally. A better remedy is to gar- 
gle the throat with brewer's toast. 

PILE OINTMENT. 

Take of tannin one drachm, sulphate of morphia ten 
grains, lard two ounces. Melt the lard, and while cook- 



Cure for Corns. 543 

ing stir in the tannin and morphine. — Attested, A. 
Douglas. 

BLEEDING AT THE XOSE. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Blow through a quill some finely-powdered gum arable 
through the nostrils. 

CHILBLAINS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Drop from a burning tallow candle thirty drops of the 
tallow into thi-ee tablespoonsful of warm brandy. Rub 
this upon the chilblains on going to bed. 

CORNS BETWEEN THE TOES. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Wet them several times a day with hartshorn, in a 
short time they will disappear. 

TO CURE FELONS. 

Miss Douglas, KirKjstim 
Bind a piece of rusty pork, the fat part, on the finger. 

< UKE FOR CHAFING. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. 

Get Fuller's earth, powder it finely. Dust thickly on 
the parts twice a day, 

CURE FOR CORNS. 

Miss Douglas, Kingston. • 

Scrape upon it a powder made of half French chalk 
and half common chalk, tie it up in a clean linen nig. 
Apply fresh chalk each day. 



544 The Canadian Economist. 

COLD IN THE HP:AD. 

Miss Doiujlas, Kingston. 

Fill a basin with boiling water, add one ounce of good 
mustard. Have the head covered with a cloth, to prevent 
the escape of the steam, over the basin, as long as any 
steam arises. 

CORNS. 

VicIvS Rural A fairs. 

A fig, roasted and applied to corns of the longest stand- 
ing, is said to be a certain cure. 

TO CURE THE QUINSEY. 

Mrs. Ihos. McKay. 

Make a poultice of common white Lima beans, and ap- 
ply it to the throat hot. 

A CURE FOR DYSENTERY. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

In a teacup hal full of vinegar, dissolve as much salt as 
it will take up, leaving a little excess of salt at the bot- 
tom of the cup ; pour boiling water upon the solution till 
the cup is two-thirds or three-quarters full. A scum will 
rise to the surface which must be removed, and the solu- 
tion allowed to cool. Dose. — A tablespoonful three times 
a day till relieved. 

A USEFUL EMBROCATION FOR RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO AND 

STRAINS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Half an ounce of strongest camphorated spirits, one 
ounce of spirits of turpentine, one raw egg, half a pint of 
best vinegar. Well mix the whole and keep it closely 



Face Ache. 545 

corked. To be rubbed in three or four times a day ; for 
rheumatism in the head, or face-ache, rub all over the 
back of the head and neck, as well as the part which is 
the immediate seat of pain. 

EXCELLENT EYE WASH. 

Mrs. T/ios. McKay. 

Three or five grains of alum, dissolved in half a pint of 
water and applied to the eyes whenever they are weak 
or inflamed. 

RHEUMATISM. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Honey two pounds, flour of sulphur two ounces, cream 
of tartar one ounce, Jamaica ginger, powdered, half an 
ounce, one nutmeg grated, gum guiacum, powdered one 
drachm. Mix all these ingredients well. Dose — Two 
teaspoousful twice a day in a tumbler of hot water. 

REMEDY FOR CROUP. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Half a teaspoonful of powdered alum in a little mo- 
lasses. It is a simple remedy, one almost always at hand, 
and one dose seldom fails to give relief. 

FACE-ACHE. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

A cabbage leaf well warmed before the fire and applied 
to the face as hot as possible, will be found a certain cure 
for the face ache ; or, take twelve grains of sulphate of 
quinine, one ounce of white lump sugar and pound them 
well in a mortar, then divide into twelve portions, two of 
which should be taken each day in water ; or, take half a 
35 



546 The Canadian Economist. 

teaspoonful of carbonate of iron in water, three times a 
day. 

RHEUMATIC PAINS IN THE FACE AND TEETH. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

They may be greatly alleviated by adopting the fol- 
lowing course : Take two teaspoousf ul of flour, two of 
grated ginger, and incorporate them well together with 
sufficient essence of ginger to make a thin paste. Spread 
this upon a linen rag and apply it to the part affected on 
going to bed, wrapping a piece of flannel over all, and it 
will effect a cure. 

REMEDY FOR CROUP. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Half a teaspoonful of pulverized alum in a little mo- 
lasses. It is a simple remed}", one almost always at hand, 
and one dose seldom fails to give relief; if it should not, 
repeat it after one hour. Some persons just give the pure 
alum powder. A little on the point of the finger, even 
while the child is sleeping. 

COLD IN THE HEAD. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

A physician of France, says that a cold in the head can 
be cured by inhaling hartshorn. The inhalation by the 
nose should be seven or eight times in five minutes. 

COUGH COMPOUND. 

Miss Emmaline Thomson, Ottawa. 

For the cure of coughs, colds, whooping-cough, and all 
diseases of the lungs : — -One dessertspoonful of vegetable 
tar, three dessertspoonsful of honey, the yolks of three 
hen's eggs and half a pint of wine (sherry preferred), beat 



Cranbernes as a Cure for Cancer. 547 

the tar, eggs and honey well together, then add the wine 
and beat all together with a knife, then bottle for use. 
Dose, a teaspoonful every morning, noon and night, before 
eating. 

FOR COLDS. 

Rev. David Wardrope, Teesvjater. 

Boneset, slippery elm bark, licorice, flaxseed, one ounce 
of each. Infuse in a quart of boiling water for two houi^s, 
add one pint of molasses or syrup, half a pound of loaf 
sugar. Simmer till the sugar is dissolved. 

CURE FOR EARACHE. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pn. 

Take a tobacco pipe, place a wad of cotton in a bowl, 
drop eight or ten drops of chloroform and cover with 
more cotton. Place the stem to the afliicted ear and blow 
in the bgwl. 

GERANIUM LEAVES. 

Mrs. White, Bradford, Pa. 

The leaves of geraniums are an excellent application 
for cuts, when the skin is rubbed off and other wounds of 
the kind. One or two leaves must be biiiised and applied 
on linen to the part and the wound will become healed in 
a very .short time. 

THE VIRTUES OF CRANBERRIES AS A CURE FOIt CANCER. 

It has been ascertained that the application of raw 
cranberries, applied as a poultice, will cure this most invet- 
erate disease. We know of one instance, a lady of our 
acquaintance (says an exchange paper) who had a cancer 
in her breast which had become as large as a pullet's egg, 
and was an inch below the surface of the skin. In this 
present case it was an hereditary disease, and she regarded 
it as a death warrant. She was persuaded, however, to 



548 The Canadian Economist. 

try the cranberries, and they effected a cure. It is now 
between two or three years since it disappeared, and she 
has had no intimation of a return of the disease. The 
cranberries were mashed in a mortar, spread on a cloth 
and laid on, changing the poultice three times a-day. In 
two or three days, it became so sore that it drew out pus- 
tules that filled like the small pox, and this process was 
renewed with the same effect until the whole was drawn 
away ; the cancer becoming softened, and decreasing in 
size at every application until it finally disappeared. 

TO COOL INFLAMMATION. 

Young Ladies Journal. 

Refined chalk made into a thick lather with one-third 
as much glycerine as water and spread on the parts will 
cool inflammation and reduce redness of the face and 
hands. 

TO REMOVE TEA STAINS. 

Young Ladies' Journal. , 

Clear boiling water will remove tea stains. Pour the 
water through the stain and thus prevent it spreading 
over the fabric. 

SMALL -POX. 

I am willing to risk my reputation, wrote Edward 
Hine, to \h& Liverpool Mercury , if the worst case of small- 
pox cannot be cured in three days, simply by the use of 
cream of tartar, one ounce of cream of tartar dissolved in 
a pint of water, drank at intervals when cold, is a never- 
failing certain remedy. It has cured thousands, never 
leaves a mark, and never causes blindness. 

FOil A SCALD OR BrRN. 

Godey's Book 

Apply immediately pulverized charcoal and oil ; lamp 
will do, but linseed is better. 



Lemon Juice for Pain. 549 

CHROMATE OF POTASH FOR WARTS. 

Godeys Book. 

The following formula has been recommended even in 
old-standing and inveterate warts. Cromate of potash 
twelve grains, lard one drachm ; mix and rub in night 
and morning. 

CURE FOR PRICKLY HEAT. 

Godey's Book: 

Mix a large portion of wheat bran, with either cold or 
lukewarm water, and use it as a bath twice or thrice a 
day. Children, who are covered with prickly heat in 
warm weather, will thus be eftectually relieved from that 
tormenting eruption. As soon as it begins to appear on 
the neck, face, or arms, commence using the bran water 
on these parts repeatedly through the day, and it may 
probably spread no further. If it does, the bran water 
' will certainly cure it, if persisted in. 

LEMON JUICE FOR PAIN. 

Godeys Book. 

Lemon juic;e, or a solution of citric acid relieves the 
pain of cancer, when applied t<^ the sore as a lotion. 




CHAPTER XLII. 
MISCELLANEA. 

HOW TO MAKE CANDLES OUT OF LARD. 

iV/'.s. (Capt.) Coivley. 

ONE pound of alum, one pound of saltpetre, dissolve 
in a metal pot, and boil till all is dissolved, then 
add twelve pounds of lard. Boil slowly and stir often, 
till all the scum, which looks like yolks of eggs, falls and 
sticks to the pot, then strain and let cool. It makes ex- 
cellent candles for summer use. 

BAKING POWDER (oRIUINAL). 

Mrs. Hiram Robinson. 

One pound of cream of tartar, half a pound of baking- 
soda, one pound of flour. Mix all together thoroughly, 
by passing through a sieve several times, then dry it by 
putting it on a paper on a warm stove. Pass it through 
the sieve again and bottle it, to be kept in a very dry 
place. 

PRI^X•E CAKE. 

Mrs. James Sieveright, Gloucester. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, beaten together, 
then add half a cupful of milk, four cupsful of Hour, six 
eggs, two broken in at a time, four teaspoonsful of bak- 
ing [)owder, half a pound of stoned raisins. Flavour with 
lemon. 



Cava iiiel Cake. 551 

BAKING POWDER. 

Mrs. W. Hutchison. 

A quarter of a pound of soda, half a pound of best cream 
of tartar, one pound of Hour. Mix all well together. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. James Sleveright, Gloucester. 

Three-quarters of a cupful of butter, tw'o of sugar, 
one of sweet milk, two of Hour, one of corn-starch, whites 
of six eggs, a teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Sieveright, Gloucester. 

Boil a quart of good sweet milk, and thicken with four 
teablespoonsful of sifted corn-meal, add three tablespoons- 
ful of molasses or brown sugar, one of butter, one egg, 
nutmeg or cinnamon to taste. Bake one hour if your 
oven is quick, if a slow heat, one hour and a half. Eat 
warm from the oven, or cool, if preferred, with syrup or 
sauce. It should bake until curdled like an over-baked 
custard. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Mrs. James Sieveright, Gloucester. 

One and a half cupsful of sugar, three-quarters of a 
cupful of butter, half a cupful of milk, two and a quarter 
cupsful of flour, three eggs, one and a half heaping tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, or a small teaspoonful of soda 
and tw^o of cream of tartar. Bake in jelly-tins. Make 
caramel as follows : — Butter the size of an egg, one pint 
of brown sugar, half a cupful of milk or water, half a cake 
of chocolate, boil twenty minutes and pour over the cake 
while warm, piling the layers one upon the other. For 
frosting for the top of cake, take the whites of two eg^, 



552 The Canadian Economist 

one and a half cupsful of sugar, a teaspoonful of vanilla, 
three heaping teaspoonsful of grated chocolate. 

QUAKER OMELETTE. 

Mrs. James Sieveright, Gloucester. 

Three eggs, half a cupful of milk, one and a half table- 
spoonsful of corn starch, a teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of butter. Put the omelet pan and a cover that 
will fit close on to heat ; beat the yolks of the eggs, the 
corn starch and the salt very well togcthei', rub the 
whites to a stiff froth and add to the yolks, corn starch 
and salt. Stir all together very closely, then add the 
milk, put the butter in the hot pan and when melted pour 
in the mixture, cover and place on the stove, where it 
will brown, but not burn, cook about seven minutes, fold, 
turn on a hot dish and serve with cream sauce poured 
around it. 

BACON. 

Family Friend. 

Bread, eggs and bacon, or beans and bacon furnish a 
compact dietary for muscular work. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE (AS TAUGHT IN THF. SCHiOL AT 
KENSINGTON). 

Family Friend. 

Take a shallot, three mushrooms and half a carrot 
and chop them up very finely on a board ; then put 
them with one ounce of butter, into a stew pan. place on 
the fire and fry the contents a good rich brown. Stir in 
one ounce of flour, and half a pint of good biown stock ; 
add one sprig of thyme, a bay leaf and one tablespoonful 
of Harvey sauce, and stir the sauce well until it boils, 
then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it 
simmer for twenty minutes. Season the same with salt 



Milk Soup. 553 

and pepper according to taste, also add two tablespoons- 
ful of vinegar. Strain the sauce and it is ready for use. 

CHLORIDE OF LIME. 

Young Ladies' JvurrioJ. 

In scattering chloride of lime on a plank in a stable all 
kinds of flies, but more especially biting flies, are quickly 
got rid of. Sprinkling beds of vegetables with a weak 
solution of this salt effectually preserves them from cater- 
pillars, slugs, &c. It has the same effect when sprinkled 
on the foliage of fruit trees. A paste of one part pow- 
dered chloride of lime, and one-half part of some tatty 
matter placed in a nan-ow band round the trunk of the 
tree, prevents insects from creeping up it. It has even 
been noticed that rats and mice quit places in which a 
certain quantity of chloride of lime has been spread. This 
salt dried and finely powdered can no doubt be employed 
for the same purpose as flour of sulphur. 

MUSTARD SAUCE (VERY GOOD WITH BOILED BEEF). 

Young Ladies Jmirnal. 

Two tablespoonsful of mustard mixed with a small tea- 
cupful of vinegar, two ounces of butter, one egg, and two 
lumps of sugar, and as much of the liquid that the heef 
is boiled in as to mix it to the consistency of cream. Then 
boil as you would melted butter. 

MILK SOUP. 
Famib/ Friend. 

Four large potatoes, two leeks, two ounces of butter, 
three tablespoonsful of crushed tapioca, one pint of milk. 
Put the potatoes and leeks, cut in four, into a saucepan, 
with two quarts of boiling water, and the two ounces of 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and pepper to taste. Boil 



554 TJie Canadian Economist. 

an hour, run through a colander and return it to the 
saucepan, add the milk, sprinkle in the tapioca and let 
it boil fifteen minutes. 

FILLETS OF MACKEREL. 

Young Ladies Journal. 

Bone a mackerel, cut each fillet in two, dry them and 
sprinkle them freely with pepper and salt and chopped 
parsley ; fry them in butter or lard. For the sauce, boil 
the bones, strain and thicken the broth, add the juice 
of a lemon to taste, serve under the fillets. Garnish with 
sliced gherkins. 

INK STAINS. 

Family Friend. 

Ink-stains in cotton and linen can often be removed by 
washing in salt and water (or in milk). This should be 
done before the fabric is washed with soap. 

REMEDY FOR SORE THROAT. 

Family Friend. 

A domestic remedy for sore throat is sage, used as a 
► gargle, with honey, alum, or any astringent. 

HOW TO BOIL A FOWL. 

Family Friend. 

Get a large stone jar with a close-fitting lid, and hav- 
ing stufi'ed the fowl, using very small short skewers, put 
it in with half a pint of milk and water, or better still, 
good white stock, a little salt and a blade of mace. Place 
on the lid and tie it down. Then put the jar into a deep 
saucepan or small boiler, with sufficient cold water to 
nearly reach the neck of the jar ; set it on the fire, and 
after it has slowly " come to the boil," as the cooks say, 



sponge Cake. ooo 

allow it to simmer for one hour. A fowl so boiled will be 
very superior in tlavour and appearance to one done in 
the ordinary way, and the stock in the jar can be added 
to soup stock or made into broth. 

WHITES OF EGGS. 

Family FAend. 

In many households there are often whites of eggs to 
spare which are usually thrown away. If they are put 
into a jam pot and placed in a saucepan with boiling 
water, and boil for one hour ; they will prove most use- 
ful when cold, and may be used for salad. 

TO KEEP LEMONS. 

Family Friend. 

To keep lemons — let them lie loosely uncovered on a 
wire tray that will permit circulation of air on all sides, 
and underneath. Keep them in a dry and cool room. 

POTTED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. John MacMillan, Ottawa. 

Cut up two or more tender chickens. Place in a pot 
with water enough to cover, pep])er and salt to taste. 
Boil until tender ; remove the bones. Put them back in 
the pot with the liquor, and boil until all the juice is ex- 
tracted. Strain and return to the pot with the chicken, 
having previously cut it in small pieces. Boil a few min- 
utes and place in buttered moulds. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss Mary Scott, Ottawa. 

Beat one pound of sugar and eight eggs twenty min- 
utes ; then by degiees add ten ounces of flour ; half till 
-^mall tins. Bake in a cjuick oven. 



556 The Canadian Economist. 

A NICE DISH OF APPLES. 

Miss Mary Scott, Ottaiva. 

Peel and core ten or twelve nice hard apples ; then put 
in a flat saucepan about one pint of water with one cup 
of sugar ; let it boil. Put in the apples and cover them, 
and let them boil till soft but not broken. Lift out the 
apples and put on a flat dish. Let the syrup boil more 
and flavour with lemon or vanilla. Grate a little nutmeg 
over the apples, and pour the syrup over them. Fill the 
centre of the apples with a little red currant jelly. Spread 
over all the beaten whites of two eggs. 

WHITE LILY CAKE. 

Miss Beccie Bunton, Bradford, Pa. 

Take the whites of six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, 
three cupsful of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, three- 
fourths of a cupful of butter, two teaspoonsful of cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonf ul of soda. 

YELLOW LILY CAKE. 

Miss Beccie Bunton, Bradford, Pa. 

The yolks of six eggs, two cupsful of sugar, three cups- 
ful of flour, half a cupful of milk, two teaspoonsful of 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. 

LARDING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Have ready larding pins of different sizes, according to 
the article to be done ; cut slices of bacon into bits of a 
proper length, quite smooth, and put on a larding needle 
to suit it, with which pierce the skin, with a very little of 
the meat, leaving the bacon in, and the two ends of equal 
length outwards. Lard in rows the size you think fit 



Glazing. 557 

The same efiect with regard to flavour may be produced 
b}' raising the skin and laj'ing a slice of fat bacon beneath 
it. Daubing consists in passing bacon right through meat, 
while larding is on the surface only. 

BR.MSIXli. 

Mrs. Thos. McK<nj. 

Put the meat you would braise into a stewpan and 
cover it with thick slices of fat bacon, then lay round it 
six or eight onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, some celery, 
and if to be browned, some thick slices of carrots and 
trimmings of any fresh meat bones 30U have, with a pint 
and a half of water, or the same quantity of stock, ac- 
cording to what the meat is, and add seasoning ; cover the 
pan close and set it over a slow stove, it will require two 
or three houj-s, as its size and quality may direct; then 
strain the gravy, keep the meat quite hot, take the fat off 
by plunging the basin into cold water, which will cause 
the fat to coagulate, and boil it as quickly as you can, 
till it thickens. If however, you wish the gravy to ad- 
here to the meat, it must be still further thickened. 
Then with a brush, kept for the purpose, do over the meat, 
and, if that ha.s been larded, put it in the oven a few 
minutes. This is called glazing: aad is much used for made 
dishes. 

GLAZING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Glazing is done by brushing melted glaze or jelly over 
the article, and letting it cool. In some cases it is 
requisite to cover the articles with two or three coats of 
glaze, allowing each to cool as it is laid on. The glaze 
should be of a clear yellow brown and as thick as good 
treacle. If 3'ou have not the glaze ready, sift a little 
sugar over the article to be glazed and finish in the oven 
with a salamander or red hot shovel. 



558 The Canadian Economist. 

BONING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

In disengaging the flesh from the bones, work the 
knife close to the bone and take care not to pierce the 
outer skin. 

BLANCHING. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Blanching makes the article plump and white and con- 
sists in putting it into cold water, over the fire, allowing 
it to boil up and then plunging it into cold water, where 
the article should remain till cold. 

INVISIBLE CEMENT, 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Dissolve isinglass in spirits of wine by boiling. It will 
unite broken glass so as to render the crack invisible. 

FRENCH POLISH REVIVER (EXCELLENT). 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

The following mixture will be found to produce an ex- 
cellent polish for furniture, taking out the stains and 
cleaning it, as well as giving it great brightness ; one pint 
of raw linseed oil, four ounces of spirits of wine, one of 
spirits of salt, one of hartshorn, six of white wine vinegar, 
two of gum arable, and the whites of two eggs ; the two 
latter ingredients beaten together in a mortar, then add 
the oil and the other ingredients ; shake well together. 

FRENCH POLISH FOR BOOTS SHOES AND HARNESS. 

Mrs. Thos. McKay. 

Mix together two pints of the best vinegar, and one 
pint of soft water, stir into it a quarter of a pound of glue 



To Prepare Caramel or Burnt Sugar. 559 

broken up, half a pound of logwood chips, a quarter of an 
ounce of finely powdered indigo, a quarter of an ounce of 
the best soft soap, and a quarter of an ounce of isinglass ; 
put the mixture over the fire and after it comes to a boil 
continue the boiling for t«n minutes more ; then strain 
the liquid and bottle and cork it. WTien cold it is tit for 
use. Before you apply this polish to boots, shoes, &c., 
remove the dirt with a sponge and water, then put on 
the polish with a clean sponge. Should you find it too 
thick, hold it near the fire to warm a little and the heat 
will liquify it sufficiently to be used. 

SWEET GRAPE WINE. 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Pick the grapes as above, crush and strain, and to each 
gallon of juice add three and a quarter pounds of lump 
sugar. Put it immediately into the cask, and bottle 
when the vines bloom the following summer. The gi*apes 
should be fully but not over I'ipe. 

SCENT BAG. 

Cassetl's Household Guide. 

This will prevent moths injuring clothes ; one ounce of 
cloves, carraway seeds, nutmegs, mace, cinnamon and 
tonquin beans, and of orris-root as much as will equal the 
other ingredients when put together. Grind the whole 
well together and put it into little silk bags. 

TO PREPARE CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR, 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Loaf sugar is slowly and carefully heated over the fire 
until it melts and assumes a rich brown colour. During 
this process we must be very careful that the heat is not 
too great, otherwise the sugar will very quickly take tire. 



560 The Canadian Economist. 

Besides this, if the heat is too great the caramel contracts 
a very bitter and disagreeable taste. When the sugar is 
sufficiently boiled, water must be gradually added until 
the burnt sugar is dissolved, forming a deep brown liquid. 
This fluid is then to be strained, while hot, through coarse 
linen and carefully preserved. This is used to give a rich 
brown tint to gravies. 

TO PREPARE VERJUICE. 

Cassells Household Guide. 

Press unripe grapes or gooseberries and strain the juice 
through a linen cloth, bottle it and expose it uncorked to 
the sun for six or seven days. The liquor will ferment, 
and the bottles must be filled up every morning. Wiien 
the fermentation has ceased, decant the verjuice into 
other bottles. Cork and store them for use. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

CasselVs Household Guide. 

Fill a preserving pan with peeled, quartered and cored 
apples, add cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, not too strong. 
Cover with good cider and boil slowly, mashing with a 
wooden spoon, until the whole becomes a dark, brown 
jam, with no more juice than can be prsssed. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

1,000 Domestic Hints. 

Put a table spoonful of parsley -leaves and the same of 
capers into a mortar and beat them together ; add a table- 
spoonful of fresh mustard and three hard yolks of eggs, 
and properly mix the whole. Then add six anchovies 
boned and forced through a sieve, a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, two of oil and a finely-chopped shalot, and mix the 
whole. When to be used stir the sauce into half a pint 
of melted butter, or strong beef gravy. 



To Take Stains out of Silver. 561 

OYSTER CATSUP. 

For flavouring dishes when oysters are out of season 
Boil half a pint by measure of shelled oysters previously 
beat up in a mortar into a paste, half a pint of molasses 
with a drachm of mace, half a drachm of pepper, and half 
an ounce of salt. When ready strain off the liquid and 
preserve it in well-stopped bottles. 

LAPLANDS. 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of five eggs, and 
add one pint of rich cream and one pint of flour, or per- 
haps a little more — enough to make it of the consistency 
of pound-cake. Bake it in small round tins in a quick 
oven. 

GALETTE. 

The galette is a favourite cake in France. It may be 
made rich and comparatively delicate or quite common by 
using more or less butter, and by diminishing or aug- 
menting the size. Work lightly three-quarters of a 
pound of good butter into a pound of flour, add a large 
spoonful of salt and make these into a paste with the yolks 
of a couple of eggs mixed with a small cupful of good 
cream, should it be at hand, if not, with water ; roll this 
into a complete round three-quartere of an inch thick, 
score it in small diamonds, brush yoke of egg over the 
top and bake the galette for about an hour in a tolerably 
brisk oven. It is usually eaten hot, but is served cold 
also. One ounce of sifted sugar is sometimes added to it 

TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF SILVER. 

To take stains out of silver, steep the silver in soaj - 
lye for the space of four houi-s, then cover it over with 
whiting, wet with vinegar, so that it niay lie thick upon 
it, and dry it by a fire, after which rub off the whiting 

36 



562 The Canadian Economist. 

and pass it over with dry bran and the spots will not 
only disappear, but the silver will look exceedingly bright. 

TO PERFUME LINEN. 

1,000 Domestic Hints. 

Rose leaves dried in the shade, or at about four feet 
from a stove, one pound ; of cloves, carraway seeds, and 
allspice, each one ounce, pound in a mortar or grind in a 
mill, dried salt a quarter of a pound ; mix all these to- 
gether and put the compound into little bags. 

TO COOK A BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut off the fat and place it on the gridiron first, and 
when warmed set it on the lean, which is to be removed 
before the fat. This makes the fat like marrow. 





BILLS OF FARE FOR FAMILY MEALS. 





BREAKFAST. 






. MONDAY. 




Toast, 

Sliced Tomatoes, 

Bread, 


Tea and Coffee, 

Wheat Meal Porridge, 

L;vmb Chops, 

Melons. 

TUESDAY. 


Muffins, 

Potatoes, 

Butter, 


Tomatoes, 
Johnny Cake and 
Molasses, 
Toast, 


Tea and Kaoka, 
(Jilt Meal Porridge, 
Veal Cutlets, 
Peaches. 

WEDNESDAY. 


Butter, 
Fried Potatoes, 
Bread, 


Eggs, 

Muffins, 

Toast, 


Coflfee, 

Mush, 

Fried Ki«lneys, 

Tomatoes. 

THURSDAY. 


Bread, 

Baked Potatoes, 

Rolls, 



Sweet Breads, Cofl'ee and Chocolate, Boiled Potatoes, 

Tomatoes, Wheat Meal Porridge, Poached Eggs, 

Rolls, Hash, Toast (buttered), 

Water Melons. 



564 



The Canadian Economist. 





FRIDAY. 




Toast, 
Graham Gems, 
Bread, 


Tea and Kaoka, 
Oat Meal Porridge, 
Ham and Eggs, 
Grapes. 

SATURDAY. 


Fried Potatoes, 

Tomatoes, 

Butter, 


Rolls, 

Corn Cake, 

Boston Brown Brown 


Coffee and Tea, 

Porridge, 

Fried Trout, 

Oranges. 

SUNDAY. 


Butter, 
Potatoes, 
Poached Eggs, 


Mutfins, 

Butter, 

Toast, 


Cocoa and Kaoka, 

Porridge, 
Finnan Haddie, 

Marmalade. 


Fried Potatoes, 

Pickles, 

Bread, 




DINNER. 






MONDAY. 




Asparagus, 
Radishes, 
Young Carrots, 


Soup, 

Meat Pie, 

Bread Pudding, 

Melons, 

Biscuit, Cheese. 

TUESDAY. 


Sweet Breads, 

Potatoes, 

Parsnips, 


Peas, 

Beans, 

Corn, 


liarley Soup, 

Roast Beef and Baked 

Potatoes, 


Potatoes, 

Beets, 

Cucumbers, 



Sago and Apples 

Plums, 

Jelly Cake, Biscuits. 



Bills of Far^. 



505 



WEDNESDAY. 

Parsnips, YermiceDi Soup, Squash, 

Carrots, Beef Steak, Potatoes, 

Tomatoes, Tapioca Pudding, Boiled Onions, 

Peaches, 
Ginger Cakes, Sugar Cakes. 



THURSDAY. 

Ejrg Plant, Julieu Soup, Potatoes, 

Cauliflower, Fillett of Veal, Parsnips, 

Pickles, Bird's Nest Pudding, Carrots, 

Grapes, 
Soda Biscuit, Cheese. 



FRIDAY'. 

Pickles, Tomato Soup, Potatoes, 

Parsnips, Boiled Leg of Mutton Beets, 

Turnips, with Caper Sauce, Cabbage, 

Custard Pudding, 
Oranges, 
Chocolate Cake, Merangues. 



SATURDAY. 



Potatoes, 
Vegetable Marrow, 
Beets, 



Soup with Macaroni, 
Salmon, 
Apple Pie, 
JeUy, 
Biscuit, Chocolate Cake 



Sweet Breads, 
Apple Sauce, 
Artichokes, 



SUNDAY. 



Parsnips, 

Pickles, 

Baked Breatl, 



Oyster Soup, 

Roast Turkey, 

Plum Pudding, 

Marmalade, 

Celery, Cheese. 



Cranberries, 

Potatoes, 

Turnips, 



5CA) 



The Canadian JiJconomid. 







TEA. 








MONDAY. 






EoUs, 
Toast, 
Gems, 


Tea, Milk and Cream, 

Cold Tongue, 

Eggs, 

Chocolate Cake, 

Tomatoes. 

TUESDAY. 


Buttered Toast 
Bread, 
Butter, 




Bread, 
Eggs, 
Lapland s. 


Tea, 

Pancakes, 

Maple Molasses, 

Jelly Cake, 

Sardines. 


Buttered Toast, 
Radishes, 
Butter, 




• 


WEDNESDAY. 




B( 


Muffins, 
jston Brown Bread, 
Toast, 


Tea, 

Canned Salmon, 

Eggs, 

Iced Cake, 

Peaches. 

THURSDAY. 


Buttered Toast, 
Butter, 
Bread, 




Gems, 

Butter, 

Toast, 


Tea, 
Fried Trout, 

Eggs, 

Cream Cake, 

Strawberry Preserve. 

FRIDAY. 


Buttered Toast, 

Milk Rolls, 

Bread, 




Bread , 

Roils, 

Butter, 


Tea, 

Jellied Chicken, 

Poached Egt's, 

Lemon Cake, 

Blueberry Preserve. 


Buttered Toast, 
Crullers, 
Gems, 



Bread, 
Butter, 
Rolls, 



Bills of Fare. 
SATURDAY. 

Tea, 
Finnan Haddie, 

Fricassed Oysters, 
Orange Cake, 

Crab Apple Preserve. 



i67 



Buttered Toast, 

Crumpets, 

Gems, 



Biscuit, 
Rolls, 
Ginger Cake, 



SUNDAY. 

Tea, 

Sardines, 

Eggs, 

Fruit Cake, 

Pear Preserve. 



Buttered Toast, 

Butter, 
Home-made Bread, 




BLANK PAGES FOR NOTES, ETC. 



'Economy is the true source of Indepenence and Liberality.' 



AMOUNT FOR EXPENDITURE. 



Expenses of tJ'" T'lhl^. 569 



A Wise Man has always three Cooks, who season the simplest food with 
Sobriety, Exercise and Content" 



EXPENSES OF THE TABLE. 



^^^^ The Canadian Economist. 



" Give as thou hast received. 



BENEVOLENCE. 



E<i>']i yf<n^ih'f< SfD'ings. 571 



^ ' Time and Patience convert the Mulberry Leaf into Satin." 



EACH MONTHS SAVINGS. 



ADDEiNDA. 



MIXED PICKLE. 

Mrs. (Mcdtheiu) MacKendrick, Kincardine,. 

One-half gallon best vinegar, two ounces of currie 
powder, two ounces of salt, two ounces of mustard, one 
ounce of garlic, one ounce of pale turmerick, a few small 
red peppers — for gherkins, cauliflowers, or anything else 
you wish to pickle. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. (Mattheiv^ 3IacKendrick, Kincardine. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
cream, one cup of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two of 
cream of tartar ; beat the yolks and sugar together ; beat 
up the whites veiy light, put them in last ; flavouring to 
taste. 

SHORT BREAD, OR SCOTCH CAKE. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one-half a 
pound of brown sugar, knead well together. Bake on 
white paper, in a bake pan, in a moderate oven. 

LEMON PIES. 

3frs. (Matthew) MacKendrick, Kincardine. 

Have a good pie paste prepared ; two lemons, four eggs, 
twelve tablespoonsful of white sugar, one small teacup of 



Camly. 573 

cream, butter the size of an egg. Squeeze the juice of 
the two lemons and grate the rind of one ; stir the yolks, 
sugar, butter, cream, juice and rind together, and bake in 
rather a quick oven. While the pies are baking, beat the 
whites to a stiff froth ; spread it on the top of the pies 
and sprinkle a little white sugar over them and let them 
brown in the oven a little. 

CANDY. 

Mrs. Gre(j(j, St. Louis, U. S. 

In commemoration of the- '* Candy Pull " at Springbank, St. CatJia- 
rines, Dec. Uth, 1880. 

Four cupsful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of vinegar, 
three-quarters of a cupful of cream. Do not stir after it 
l^egins to boil ; flavour with vanilla. Try it in cold water , 
and when it is crisp pour into platters. 






<g> 



-^^^ 



COXCLUSIOX. 



WE should like to apologise for culling so freely from 
books and magazines, but the time giv^en in 
which to get up this one was so short that originality has 
been out of the question. We can only hope, therefore, 
that we shall be forgiven, and that the authors of those 
books from which we have copied will feel only honoured 
by the selections we have made. Especially we feel 
indebted to the Home Messenger, Detroit, for the many 
recipes and hints which we have taken from its pages, and 
it is such an excellent book that we could willingly have 
taken a great many more. 

We have laid before our readeis many recipes which we 
trust will prove good and useful and pleasing to the popu- 
lar taste. Here we are reminded of an anecdote of a ser- 
vant of the late Hon. Thos. McKay, of New Edinburgh, 
(which a friend is fond of relating). During the absence 
of Mr. McKay and his family in England, one year, some 
of the " officials " kept bachelor's hall, and lived well, 
Paddy was ordered, one morning, to kill a fine sucking 
pig for dinner. Shortly after he was seen trudging across 
the yard with a stick slung over his shoulder from which 
hung the pig, and singing most lustily — 

" O, 'tis nothing but a pig 
Or a goose everyday." 

We have set before you recipes for cooking a pig and a 
goose and various other savory dishes, and now we leave 
them with our readers, glad that the " Cookery Book " is 
finished at last. 



INDEX. 



CHAPTER I. — Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, Cocoa axp Kaoka. 

Page' Page 

Notes on Coffee 1 English Breakfast or Oolong 7 

Coffee. 1 Black Tea 7 

Coffee and Milk 2|To Mix Tea 8 

To Make Es,-*enee of Coffee 2|An excellent substitute for milk 

To Make Coffee 3i or cream in Tea or Coffee 

Coffee, French Fa-shion 3iTo ^fake a cup of good Tea.. 



How to Make sui>erior Coffee 

Mode of Making Coffee 

Vienna Coffee 

Chocolate , 

Making Coffee 

Coffee 

Boj-'s Coffee 

Ksioka Coffee 

Coffee 

Coffee 

Teas 



3iTheUseof Tea 
3|ToMake Tea 
4|Chocnlate 

4| 

4iGerman Chocolate 10 

S.Chocolate 10 

ojTo Make Chocolate 10 

SjChocolate 11 

6 Cocoa 11 

(Jl " 11 



CHAPTER II.— Soups. 

Cock-a-I.eekie .Sttup 12jMeagre Broth with roots 18 

To Make good Brown Soup 13'Hnnter's Soup 19 

Hodge-Potlge ISjGlaze 19 

Pea Soup 14i Browni Rabbit Soup 20 

Bean Soup HjGiblet Soup 20 

Vegetable Soiip 14 Plain Beef Soup 21 

Turkish Soup '. 14 .\ Rich Soup 21 

White Stock In Kidnev Soup 21 

Pea Soup 15 Mock Turtle Son;. 22 

Fish Soup 1.5 Brown Soup 22 

Lobster Soup lelBeef Soup 22 



White Soup 17 

German Soup 17 

Swi.s3 Soup 17 

Mutton Broth 18 

Another way for an Invalid 18^ 

Beef Broth . ISlSoup from a cold roast bone 

37 



Simple White Soup. 23 

Tomato Soup Zi 

Vegetable Soup 23 

PoUtoSoup 24 

Bean or Pea Soup 24 

- - 24 



r»70 



Tnd 



ex. 



Vage 

Barley Soup 25jOy8ter Soup N.o. 2 

Oyster Soup 25j " " No. 3 

Bone Stock for Sou[) 26 Clam Soup 

General Stock pot 26 Celery' Soup 

Pepper Pot 27iTo Make Eub-a-Boo 

To Clarify Stocks or Soups 27 (White Soup 

Corn Soup 28;Tomato Soup 

Sorrel Soup 28jTomato Soup with Meat. 

Croutons 28'Augel Soup 

( )yster Souj) ' 29 Spanish Soup 



CHAPTER III. Oysteks. 



Oysters '.i'S 

Oysters 33 

To Scallop OyHter.s o'.i 

Pickled Oystei-s .S4 

Stewed Oyster.s (plain) M 

Cold Sauce for Oysters M 

To Fricassee Oysters : . . . . 34 

Oyster Pie 35 

Stewed Oysters 3-5 

Fried Oysters 36 

Oyster Fritters 37 

Fried Oysters 37 



29 
29 
.-SO 
30 

:m) 

30 
31 
31 
31 



38 



To Fricassee Oysters 

To Brown Oysters in their own 

Juice 38 

Unsurpassed Fricasseed Oysters . . 38 

Oyster Patties 38 

Broiled Oysters 39 

To Stew Oysters 39 

Oyster Pie 40 

Oyster Omelet 40 

Raw Oysters 41 

Chicken and Oyster Croquette. . . 41 



CHAPTER IV."-Ci,.\M.'<, Ckabs .\n]) Lobsters. 



To Cook Clams 42 

Devilled Crabs 42 

To Dress Boiled Crabs 42 

To Choose Crab 43 

Crab Curry 43 

Fried Clams 44 

A Fricassee of Lobsters 43 



To make Crab Pie 44 

Clam Fritters 44 

The Crab 44 

Dressed Crab 45 

Scalloped Crab 46 

Lobster Curry 45 



CHAPTER v.— Fish and Frogs. 



General Remarks on Fish 48 

To Fry Fish 48 

To boil Fresh Shad and other Fish 48 

To Fry Salmon Steaks 49 

Turbo't 49j 

Fresh Mackerel (boiled) 49, 

To Fry Fish 50 

Broiled Salmon Trout 50J 

Haddock Fried 50 

Haddock Baked .50 

Boiled Salt Mackerel 51 

Boiled Fresh Mackerel 51 

To Cook Finnan Haddies 51 

Baked Black Bass .51 

Fried Mackerel .52 

Stewed Fish 52 



Spiced Fish 52 

Cream Trout 5;} 

Stewed Codfish 53 

Stewed Halibut 54 

Fresh Salmon (boiled) 54 

Fresh Salmon (fried) 54 

Dried Codfish 55 

Pickled Fish 55 

To Broil a Whitefish 55 

How to Bake a Fish 55 

To Bake Fish in a tin Dish 57 

To Fry Fijh 57 

Broiled Salmon 57 

Curried Fish 57 

Fish 58 

Herrings Boiled 58 



Index. oJ7 

Page Page 

Sturgeon Steak 59 To Pot any sort of Fish HI 

Baked Sturgeon 59 To Fry Fresh Fish 61 

Fillets of Mackerel 60 To Boil Fresh Fish 61 

Salmon Cutlets 60 Pickleil Fish 62 

Excellent way to dress Finnan Fish Chowder 62 

Haddies 60 Frogs 62 

Another Way 60;The Edible Frogs 62 

CHAPTER YL— Savol Kv Sauces. 

Glengarry Sauce . . ^Chilli Sauce 74 

Chutna Sauce 64; Worcester Sauce ^'^ 

Horse Radish Sauce . . 64 Fresh Tomato Sauce. 7S 

Chilli Sauces 65' Another Tomato Sauc- . 75 

Green Gooseberry Sauce 65 Lemon Sauce for Boiled Fowls , . 75 

White Sauce (VoTo Crisp Parsley 76 

(Jucumber Sauce 66 Prince Alfred's Sauce 76 

Brownini,' for Sauces 66 Butter Sauce 76 

liCmon Pudding Sauce 6»5 Orange Sauce for Game 76 

Green Mayonnaise (56 Garlic Sauce 77 

Mint Sauce 67 Mint Sauce for Lamb . . 77 

Cauliflower Sauce 67; A veiy good and iiseful White 

Egg Sauce »>8 Sauce 77 

Parslev Sauce, 1)8 Governor's Sauce 78 

Fried Parsley (^8 Chilli Sauce 78 

Fennel Sauce 69 Cream Sauce 78 

Fine Onion Sauce. . 69 ifelted Butter 78 

Plain Onion Sauce . 69 Cold Sauce for FLsh 79 

Nasturtium Sauce. . 69 Garlic Water. 79 

To Browni Flour 70 Pepper Vinegar. 79 

Brown Butter 70 Pepi^er Vinegar and Tarragon 

1 )rawn Butter 70 Vinegar 79 

< 'ajjer Sauce 71 Mint Vinegar 80 

<>yster Sauce 7l!Maitred'hotel Butter 80 

< 'ranberry Sauce 71 Horse-Radish Sauce. 80 

S:i<jre and Onion Sauce 72 Egg Sauce 80 

white Thickening 72, Bread Sauce 80 

Browning 73, Horse-Radish Sauce 81 

f 'elery Sauce 73 Sauces 81 

Horse Radish Sauce 73 Rou.n 82 

• "arrier Sauce 74 Brown Roux 82 

Poor Man's Sauce 74 Piiiuant Sauce. 82 

Sauce Robert 74 Fennel Sauce 8;i 

CHAPTER \ II.- Beef, S.alt ANi> F.:esh. 



Roast Beef and Vork-nhire Pud- 
ding 84 

Beef A-la-mo<le 84 

Minced Meat ." . . 85 

To make minced Callops 85 



To make Beef Tender 87 

Stuffed Beefsteak 87 

Stuffed Beefsteak 87 

Beef Cutlets 87 

Beef Cutlets Saut^ . . S-s 



To Pot a leg of Beef SoiTripe ssi 

Fillet of Beef with Sauce HoUan- |Beef Brose 8;» 

daiue 86 Curried Beef 89 



578 Index. 

Vx'iv. Page 

Hunter's Beef 90 Scarlet Beef 95 

Larded Beef IH) To Pot Beef 95 

• Soused Beef 91 To Bed a Rump of Beef 9fi 

Beef Smoked (Hamburg) 91 To Collar Beef '.'6 

Rib of Beef 91 Beef Liver for Gravy W> 

Beef Pasty 91 To Roast a Fresh Tongue 97 

Fillet of Beef roasted and larded 92 To Dress a Bullock's Heart 97 

Beef Loaf 92 Beef Olives 97 

To Stew a round of Beef 92 To prepare a Round of Beef for 

Best way to C^ook a Sirloin Steak 93 baking 98 

To Cook I'.eefsteak 94 Beefsteak Dumpling 98 

Spiced Beef 94 To preserve meat in summer 98 

Spiced Round of Beef 94 Beef 99 

Scarlet Beef 95 Meat Glase in a hurry 100 

CHAPTER VIU— Pork and Hams. 

To Boil a Ham 101 Italian Pork 112 

Or to Serve Hot 101 Pork Olives ll.S 

To Steam Bacon 102 Pig's Feet and Ears UA 

To Salt Larding Bacon 102 Pig's Fry 114 

To Steam a Ham 102 Glaze for Hams 114 

To Boil Bacon 103 Pork Jelly 114 

Pork Tender Loins 103 Toasted Rashers of Bacon 115 

To Broil Salt Pork 103 Ham Toast 110 

To Fry Salt Pork 103,Pork Jellv 116 

To Bake Salt Pork 104 'To Fry Ham llfi 

Pork and Beans 104 Fried Salt Pork 117 

Cheshire Pork Pie l04 To Boil Ham 117 

Sausage lOoTripe Fried 117 

Lard 106 White Tripe 118 

To Pickle Pork lOeTripe Roasted 118 

Fried Ham 107|Tripe Boiled. 118 

Plans for making the most of a Pig 107 Tripe for Invalids 119 



Rinds and Sausage Tn'mmings . . . 107 

The Bones 107 

A Roast of Pork 107 

Leg of Fresh Pork Roasted 108 



Fricasseed Tripe 119 

Tongue 120 

Fresh Ox Tongue 120 

Tongue, Boiled 120 



Pork, Spare Ribs 108 Tongue, Baked 121 

Sucking Pig lOSJCarving of Tongue 122 

Roast Pig lOSJRolled Tongue 122 

Pork Cutlets 109 The Value of Vinegar in Econo- 



Fillet of Pork 110 

Pig's Cheek (anew method) Ill 

Loin or Neck of Pork, Normandy 

Fashion Ill 

Spare Rib of Pork. Ill 

Hind-(]uarter of Sucking Pig .... 112 



mical Cookery 122 

Souse 123 

Scrapple 123 

Headcheese 124 

Souse 124 

Cold Meat Turn-overs 124 



Salt Pork 112 Cooking Cold Ham 124 

CHAPTER IX.— Veal and Sweet Breads. 

To Roast a Fillet of Veal 125 Minced Veal 126 

Veal 125 Veal Stuffing 126 

Fried Veal Cutlets 126 Fillet of Veal 1'27 



Index. 579 

Page| Page 

Veal Cutlets for the Aged 127; Veal Sweet-breads (larded) VM 

BrowB Rasrimt <;f Veal 128 Veal Sweet-breads (stewed) 137 

Marbled Veal 128 Veal Sausages Vi& 

Minced Veal 128 Veal Stewed with Apples l;i8 

Veal Cutlets 129 Veal Pie with Sausage 1:« 

Sweet-breads (fried) 129 Veal Pluck i;i8 

Sweet-breads (broiled) 129 Veal f'udding, baked 139 

Sweet-breads (roasted) 1;J0 Veal Pie lo9 

Jellied Veal VM) Sweet-bread Pie MO 

:Minced Veal and Macaroni 130 Calf:' Head 140 

Sweet-br.-ads VM C>»lf's Head Cheese 141 

Baked Calf s Feet 131 To Roast a Breast of Veal 141 

Veal Rolls 132 Scallojjed Veal 141 

Fricandette 132 Mincetl Veal with Poached Eggs. 142 

Rolarde of Veal 132 Veal and Pork Pie 142 

Seasoned Cutlets 133 Fried Veal Patties 142 

Plain Veal L'utlets VXi Veal Sweet-breads . 143 

Veal Marsden V&^ Curry Powder 143 

Veal 134 Currv Powder Xo. 2 143 

Fillets of Veal 134 To Make Currv 144 

Calf s Liver 134 Curry Powder! 144 

(drilled Calf's Liver i;i4 Curry Sauce 144 

Roast Calf s Liver 135 To lioil Rice for Cuii - . 145 

Broiled Vefl Cutlets l;io Essence of Curry 145 

To Fricassee a Breast of Veal Kio India Curry 14(i 

Veal Liver Pate \m Curried Fowl 146 

Roast Veal (recooked) l-W Curiied Dishes. 146 

Fricasee of Knuckle of Veal 137 

CHAPTER X.— McTTON and Lamb. 

Mutton and Lamb 148 Mutton and Lamb ... 1.54 

To Boil a I>;g of Mutton 148 Tongues or Uilders 155 

Baked Mutton. 148 Leg of Mutton Roasted with Oys- 

Frietl Mutton ( 'hops 149 ters 1-5.5 

Roast I/eg of Mutton 149 Scotch Haggis 1-55 

Fillet of .Mutton with Vegetables 149 Mutton Rolled 1.56 

Hashed Mutton with Fried Eggs 149 Slices of Mutton (with cream). . . 1.56 

ASteweflNeckofMutti.il 149 Quarter of Lamb (misted and 150 

Boiled Mutton 1.50 larded) 

Lamb . 150 Lamb 157 

Lamb Cutlets 1.50 Lauib Pasty 1-57 

Lamb Sweetbreads 151 Lamb Chops (broiled) 1-57 

A Saddle of Mutton 151 Kidney Dumplings 1.57 

Mutton Pasty 151 Kidneys 1.58 

Devonshire Pie 1.52 Beef Kidneys . 1.58 

Roast Mutt<in and Lamb 1.52 Rolled Loin of Mutton 1.58 

Lambs Head. Liver and Heart. 1.53 Glazed Onions 1.59 

Saddle of MutUm \5A Lamb's Fry 1-59 

Boned (Quarter of Lamb 154 Irish Stew . ItjO 

Haimch of Mutton 1.54 Sheep's Trotter- . HJO 



580 



Index. 



CHAPTER XI. -Poultry and Game. 



Page 

Game Pie for Christmas 161 

Crumbs for Game 161 

Force-meat for Game 162 

Game Patties ] 62 

English Game Pie 162 

Game Sausage 16."i 

To Remove Taints from Game . . 163 
Prairie Chickens, Partridge and 

Quail mi 

Baked Pigeons 164 

Boiled Pigeons 164 

Quail Pie 164 

Wild Pigeon Pie 164 

Wild Ducks 16.5 

Roast Duck (wild) 165 

Quail Roasted with Ham 165 

Hunter's Recipe for Roasting Par- 
tridges 166 

Fric isseed Turkey 166 

Chicken and Ham Pie 167 

Fowl stuffed with Oysters 167 

To Boil a Turkey 167 

Potted Fowl. . . / 168 

Chicken Giblet Pie 168 

Rabbits or Hare 168 

To Roast a Rabbit 169 

Ducks 169' 



Page 

To Roast Partridges 169 

.Roast Turkey 170 

Broiled Chickens 170 

Turkeys 170 

Chickens and Tongues 171 

Fowls 171 

Chickens •. 172 

Venison 1 2 

To Roast a Turkey or Chicken. . . 172 

A Nice AVay to Cook Pigeons 173 

Roast Goose 173 

To Cook old Fowl 175 

Fried Venison 175 

Gravy for Venison 175 

Venison Steaks (broiled) 175 

Pastry for Venison Pasty 176 

Venison Pasty to keep for some 

time 177 

Wholesomeness of Venison 177 

Dressing for Turkeys 177 

Dressing for Turkeys 178 

Dressing for Geese and Ducks .... 178 

To Bone a Turkey or Fowl 178 

Cutlets of Venison 179 

Creain Sauce for a Hare 180 

Scotch Woodcock 180 



CHAPTEU XII.— VEGETABLK.S. 



The Tt>mato 

To Steam Potatoes 

To Boil Potatoes 

To Boil Potatoes with their skins 

on 

To Mash Pcjtatoes 

To Boil New Potatoes 

Fried Potatoes 

To Bi)il Potatoes 

Baked Potatoe-s 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Mashed C 'arrots 

To Boil Asi)aragus 

Stewed Vegetable ?J arrow. . 

Turnips in White Sauct- 

Broiled Vegetable Marrov\-. . . 

Parsnip Fritters 

Sweet Potato Pone 

Celery with ('ream 

Fried Potatoes 

Greens 

French Bcana 



181iUuions 18" 

181 Stewed Endive 189 

Ibll Stewed Water Cress 189 

jTomato Sauce 189 

182lSea Kale 190 

182JVegetable Puree 190 

183 Asparagus Stewed 190 

183' Creaming Potatoes 190 

183 Potato Puff 191 

184 Spring Vegetables and how to C'ook 

184i them 191 

184 Oyster Plant 191 

184 Cooking Carrots 192 

) 85 Radi.she,« 192 

185'Escaloped Tomatoes 192 

185'ro Stew Cabbage 192 

186 Egg-plant 193 

186 Bru^isels Sprouts 193 

186 Cucumbers 193 

187;Sea Kale 194 

187 Windsor Long Pods or broad 

188 Beans W 



riuU.4. 581 

Page Page 

Stewed Onion? ItM Boiled Beets 19f> 

To Boil Potatoes 194 Boiled Sea-Kale 199 

Turnips 195 Stewed Pumpkin VM} 

Beets 195 Stewed Mushrooms ■2(K) 

Egg Plant lite Baked Beans 200 

V^etables 196 Vegetable Marrow 201 

Lima and Butter Beans 198Tomatoes as a Meilicine 202 

Kidney and other small Beam* . . . 199 

CHAPTER Xni.— Yeast, Bkeai> a.m. Liis. i n. 

Yeast, Bread and Biscuit 204 WTieaten Bread 212 

Yeast 204 Another Way. 213 

Home-made Yeast 204 Biscuits 213 

Wheat Bread. 205,Coru Bread 21;? 

To make Yeast Cakes 205'Bread '21-i 

Brown Bread 205 (.'orn and Wheat Bread 214 

Graham (if ms 20«i Home-made Yeast 214 

French Rolls 20(5 Kice Bread 214 

(iraham Bread 20(3 Potato Yeast . 21 "> 

Hot Cross Buns. 206|Gem9 J i " 

Diet Bread 207;Yeast ii . 

Spanish Buns 207:Buns Jl"- 

Menna Rolls .. 207 Biscuit 21*; 

Parker House Roll- 208 Home made Yeast 21(J 

Potato Rolls 208 Graham Gems 216 

Parker House Rolls 208;Scon8 216 

Boston Brown Bread 209. Excellent German Bun.s 217 

EnglLsh Biscuits 209 Hermit Biscuit 217 

Graham Gems 209;Biscuit 217 

Bakers Bread 209;Bread Dough Buns 217 

Yeast 210;Com Bread 218 

Hop Yeast 210:Hard Biscuits 218 

Potato Yea.st 21LFrench Rolls 218 

Bun-s 211 Yeast Bread 218 



Brown Rolls 211 

Rye Brea<l 211 

Rve Biscuit 212 

Rye Rolls 212 

Brown Bread 212 



English Seed Bread 219 

Diet Bread. 219 

Bath Buns 220 

Graham Breatl 220 



CHAPTER XIV.— Tea axd Breakfast Cakes. 

Com Cake 221 Common Cake 223 

Tea Cake 221 Com Starch Cake 223 

Bebeccas Cake 221 Spice Cake 223 

Strawberry Short Cake 221 Ellen's Cake 224 

Pop-over Cakes 222 Election Cake 224 

Velvet Cake 222 ( 'orn Cake 224 

Sponge Coke 222 Cora Starch Cake 224 

1, 2, 3, & 4 Cake 222 Mountain Cake 225 

Cake 222 Mill-road Cake 225 

Cocoa nut Cake 223 Matrimony 225 



582 



Index. 



2Tt 
227 
227 
227 
227 
228 
228 
228 
228 
228 
22!t 
229 
229 



Queen Cake 225 

Corn Starch Patty Pans 225 

Sally Lunns 226 

Strawberry Short Cake 226 

Cocoa-nut Cake 226 

Orange Short Cake 

Centennial Cake 

Court Cake 

Currant Cake 

Queen's Cake 

Oyster Corn Cakes 

Velvet Cake 

Sugar Cake 

Potato Cake 

Bush Cake 

Johnny Cake 

Strawberry Short Cake 

Cocoa-nut Cake 

Sponge Cake 

Cream Muffins 

Cup Cakes 

Coffee Cake 

Nut Cake 

Molasses Cake 

Corn Starch Cake 

Muffins 

Milk Toast 

Corn Oysters 

Waffles 

French Toast 

Cream Cakes 

Do do (continued) 

Pop-overs 

Puffs ■ 

Mclxinnis Cake .' 

Marble Cake 

Good Cup Cake, 

Graham Flour Breakfast Biscuit. 

Corn Meal Cake 

Feather Cake 

Cocoa Nut Cake 

Surprise Cake 

Cora Starch Cake 

Corn Starch Cake 285 

Delicate Cake 235 

Parliament C'akes 236 

Potato Puff 236 

Butternut Cake 236 

Seed Biscuits 236 

Perth Cake 237 

Dessert Cakes 237 

Passover ('akes 237 

Scotch Cake 237 

Sweet Biscuits 238 



PageI Page 

Clove Cake 238 

Graham Flour Muffins 238 

Corn Starch Cake 238 

Roly-Poly 239 

Coffee Cake 239 

226 Real Plantation Johnny Cake 239 

Old Maid's Cake 239 

Cream Sponge Cake 240 

Mountain (^ake 240 

Oldfashioned Short-cake 240 

Clove Cake 240 

Rock Cake 240 

Sponge Cake 241 

Jelly Cake 241 

Chocolate Cake 241 

Prince of Wales Cake 241 

Hickory Nut C!ake 241 

Roll Jelly Cake 242 

Cup Cake 242 

223ITea Cake, No. 2 242 

229!RiceCake 242 

230iSilver Cake 242 

2301 Bachelor's Corn Cake 243 

230iCream Cake 243 

2;W Coffee Cake 243 

231 Corn Starch Cake 243 

23lljenny Bind Cake 244 

23l!Mola8ses Cake 244 

231 [Nice Delicate Cake 244 

232ilndian Corn Cake 244 

232 Pop-overs 244 

232 Chocolate (:;ake 245 

232JDrop Cake 245 

233! Lemon Cake 245 

233 Banbury Cakes 245 

233 Sugar Cakes 246 

233 1 Small Plum Cakes 246 

2.34|Soda Biscuits 246 

234 Snow Cake 246 

234iSpiced Cake 247 

234jMuffins 247 

2.35 j Shrewsbury Cakes 247 

235iWafer Biscuit to Ornament a 



Cream, &c 248 

Cakes 247 

Savoy Biscuit 247 

Sponge Biscuit .• 249 

Two Egg Cake (good) 248 

Composition Cake 249 

Muffins 249 

Raised Cake 249 

Sugar Cakes 249 

Ground Rye Sponge Cake 250 

Sally Lunn- 250 



index. 



583 



Page' Page 

PotatoeCakes 250 Corn Cake 261 

To make Knsks 250 Soda Cake 2HI 

Kice Pound Cakes 251 Jximbles 201 

A Light Sepd Cake. 251 Sponge Cake for Jellv Roll 261 

Com Starch Cake 252 Rice Cakes 261 

Graham Cakes 252 Graham Puffs 262 

Silver Cake 252 Drop Cakes 262 

Seed Cake 252 So<la Cakes 262 

Cocoa-Nut Cake 252 Breakfast Muffins 262 

Fife Cake 253 To make a Nice Plain Cake 262 

Tea Cake 253 Jelly Cake 263 

Sponge Cake 253 Lemon Cake 263 

Delicate Cake 253 Rail Road Cake 2>oA 

Marbletl Cake 253 Johnnv Cake 264 

Com Starch Cake 254 Silver Cake 264 

Mountain Cake 254 Tea Cakes 264 

Chocolate Cake 2.54 Pop-Overs 2t>4 

Marble Cake 254 Tumbler Cake 264 

Com Starch Puffs 2-55 Delicate Cake 265 

Drop Cakes 2->5 Breakfast Cakes 265 

Imperials 255 Graham Pop-Over* . 265 

Cocoanut Cake 255 luflian Meal Griddle Cakes 265 

Patty Cakes 256 Delicate Cake '.. 265 

Princess Cakes 256 Jumbles 265 

Sandwich Cake 256 Cake " '. 266 

Com Starch Cake 2.56 Cream Pan-cakes 266 

Graham Muffins 257 French Pan-cakes 266 

An Excellent Cake 257 Plain Pan-cakes 267 

Corn-Starch Cake 257 Buckwheat Cakes 267 

Plain Cake 257 Buckwheat Calces (another way) 267 

Coffee Cake 25S Raised Buckwheat Cakes 268 

Potatoe Cake 258 Light Rye Tea Cakes 268 

Tea Cake 258 Rye Drops or Muffins 268 

Cocoa-nut Cake 258 Rye Drojw Fried like Di>;;_-h-nuts 268 

Cream Cake 2.58 Rye Griddle Cakes ... "^Jj 

Tea Cake 259 Rye Rolls 269 

Strawberry Short-Cake 2-59 Hoe Cakes 269 

Rice Flower Cakes 259 Risen Flannel Cake 269 

Jumbles 259 Saratoga Tea Cakes 270 

Buckwheat Cakes 260 Capital Oatmeal Cakes 270 

Manna Cakes 260 Plain Seed Cake 270 

Tea Cake 260 Crumpets 271 

Breakfast Rolls 260 Bout Cakes * 271 

Corn-Starch Cake 260 



CHAPTER XV.— Mush, Oatmeal, Rice. 

How to Make Mush 272iRice 274 

Com Mush. . . 273 Rice Souffle 274 

Splendid Oat Cake . . . 273 Boiled Rice. . . .' ' ' 275 

Oatmeal Cake . 273 Rice Biscuit 276 

To Mix Oatmeal. ... . 273 Rice Blancmange 27§ 

Cracked \Vheat . 274, Rice Blancmange 276 

38 



)84 



IncU 



CHAPTER XVI.— Macakoni. 

Page Page 

Macaroni 277 How to Boil and Dress Macaroni 279 

Macaroni 277 Macaroni 280 

Macaroni 277 Macaroni Pudding to be Made of 

Excellent Macaroni 278: Cooked Meat 280 

Macaroni 278 Fish and Macaroni 280 

Macaroni as Usually Served 278 To Serve Macaroni 281 

Macaroni Omelet 279 Macaroni au Gratin 281 

Macaroni Pudding 279 Macaroni Dressed Sweet 281 



CHAPTER XVII.— Eggs. 

To Keep Eggs Fresb 282iEgg3 and Potatoes 286 

Stuffed Eggs 282 Beating Eggs 287 

Pickled Eggs 282 Eggs liroiled 287 

Cupped Eggs 283iEggs Fricasseed 287 

Pickle for Eggs 288 Steamed Eggs 288 

To Pickle Eggs 283]Spun Eggs 288 

To Keep Eggs 284!Cun'ied Eggs 288 

To Fry Eggs 284|To Keep Eggs 288 

Egg Cheese 284 To Pickle Eggs 289 

Packing Eggs 285Egg Omelet , 289 

Eggs and Sausage 28oiEgg Rolls 289 

Eggs and Cucumbers 285|Eggs with Asparagus 289 

Fricassee of Eggs 28.5lEggs and Anchovies (in savory 

Eggs Like Tripe 286[ jelly) 290 

Eggs and Onions 286l 

CHAPTER XVIII.— Sal.ads. 

Salad 291 Fresh Tomatoes 294 

Lobster Salad 291, Simple Potato Salad 294 

Chicken Salad 292iChicken Salad 295 

Lobster Salad 292 Miss Smith's Mayonnaise 295 

Chicken Salad 292iBoihjd Salad 296 

Salad Mixture 292|Salad Dressing 296 

Centennial (>abbage Salad 292 1 Every Day Salad 296 

Dressing for Salad 2'.i;>: Fried Eggs for Salad 297 

Chicken Salad 293|Salad for Winter 297 

Salad 294, Cauliflower Salad 298 

*' Salad 294i 

CHAPTER XIX.— Pastry and Pies. 

Cream Pie 299'Jellv Tarts 301 

Apple Custard Pie 299 Lemon Pie 301 

Orange Pie 299 Real Cream Pie 302 

Apple Meringue Pie 300 Fine Puff Pastry 302 

Cream Pie 300 Chicken Pot Pie 302 

Lemon Pie 300 Lemon Pie 302 

Lemon Pie 301 Corn Starch Pie 303 

Apple Custard Pie , 301 Apple Pies 303 



Index. 585 

Page; Page 

Cream Pie 303,Washington Pie 310 

Sea- Foam Pie 304 Chicken Pot Pie .<-••• 310 

Lemon Pie:* 304 Cream Pie ...'... 311 

Economical Pastry 304 Lemon Pie 311 

Puff Pa«te with Milk 304 Washington Pie 311 

Pie-Plant Pie 305 Cocoa-nut Pie ..... 311 

Lemon Pie 30.5 How to Dry Pumpkin to make the 

Lemon Pie ;i05 Pie 312 

Cheese Pie 30.5 Mince Meat 312 

Mince Meat 306 Lemon Pie 312 

Orange Pie 30«i GrajH? Pie 312 

Mince Meat 'MG Cranberry Pie 313 

Lemon Pie 306 Common Mince Pie 313 

Chicken Pie 307 Custard Pie 313 

Lemon Pie 307 To make Puff Paste 314 

Cream Pie 307 Paste for Common Pies 314 

Custard Pie 308 Paste for Meat or Fruit Pies 315 

xVpple Pie 308 Puff Paste 315 

Apple Pie 308 Short Paste for Tarts and Fruit 

Apple Pie 308 Pies 315 

Vermicelli Pie 309 Suet Paste for Boiled Puddings . . 316 

Oyster Pie 309 Good Plain Pastry 316 

Mince Meat 309 Baking Powder .'. 316 

Khubarb Tart 310 Rich Cream Paste for Tarts 317 

Iced Lemon Pie 310;Puff Paste 317 



CHAPTER XX.— Ptddixgs. 

Puddings 318 Rice Pudding (without E^s) 325 

Preserved Ginger Pudding 318 Rice Pudding 325 

20 Minute Pudding 31'.» Surprise Pudding 325 

Snow Pudding S19 Aunt ]Mary's Pudding 32.5 

Queen of Puddings 319 Lem(m Pudding 326 

Moonshine Pudding 320 French Tapioca Pudding 326 

Orange Pudding 320 Steamed Pudding 326 

Snow " 321 Golden Pudding 327 

Black " 321 Christmas Plum Pudding (with- 

Dclmonico Pudding 321; out Eggs* 327 

Rice'Pndding withaut Eggs 321 Steamed Bread Pudding (deHci- 327 

Troy Pudding 322' ous) ' 327 

Apple Charlotte 322 Ground Rice Pudding (or Easter 

Black Pudding 322 Pies) 328 

Indian Pudding 322 Pan-Dowdy 328 

Ric« Meringue Pudding 322 A Souffle Pudding 328 

Hiss " 323 Corn-Meal Pudding 329 

Chocolate " 323 Carrot Pudding ;^29 

I^emon I)umplings 323 Small and Cheap Plum Pudding. . 329 

Cattle Puddinir 324 Appie Sago Pudding 3;J0 

Carolina Rice Pudding ;?24 Golden Pudding 3;J0 

Apple Souffle 324 Gelatine Pudding 330 

Si>onge Puddings 324 Baked Apple Pudding 3:iO 

Steamed Pudding 324 Lemon Suet. Pudding 331 



580 



Index. 



Page 

Half -pay Pudding 331 

Old English Plum Pudding 331 

Amber Pudding 331 

Kice Pudding without Eggs 331 

ANicellice Pudding 333 

Baroness Pudding 332 

Sponge Pudding 332 

Honey Comb Pudding 333 

(ripsey Pudding 333 

Snow-ball Pudding 333 

Mountain-dew Pudding 333 

Strained Pudding 334 

Steak Pudding 334 

Treacle Pudding 334 

Boiled Curd Pudding 334 

Lotus Pudding 335 

Fruit in Batter 335 

To Make Batter for Fruit Pud- 
dings 335 

Baked Gooseberrj- Pudding 336 

Carrot Pudding 336 

Baked Sponge Pudding 336 

Apple Dumpling 336 

Fig Pudding 337 

Cabinet Pudding 337 

"Workman's Pudding 337 

Quaker Pudding 338 

Yorkshire Pudding 338 

Carrot Pudding 338 

Steamed Pudding 338 

Plum Pudding 339 

Christmas Plum Pudding 339 

Apple Pudding 339 

Mazev Pudding 339 

A Delicate Pudding 340, 

Steamed Apple Pudding 340 

Boiled Indian Pudding 340, 

Queen of Puddings 340i 



Page 

Poor Man's Pudding 341 

Feather Pudding 341 

French Pudding 341 

Puddin"^ 342 

Brown Pudding 342 

Mince Meat 342 

Bird's Nest Pudding 342 

Canadian Pudding 343 

Cottage Pudding 343 

Country Pudding 343 

Delicious Pudding 343 

Aunt Nellie's Pudding 343 

Koll Pudding 344 

Maize Pudding 344 

Bread and Butter Pudding (good) 344 

Poor Man's Plum Pudding 344 

Honey-comb Pudding 345 

Steamed Pudding 345 

Plain Plum Pudding 345 

Cup Pudding ... 346 

Bread Pudding 346 

Apple Dumpling 346 

Hard Times Pudding 346 

Snow Pudding 347 

Bird's Nest Pudding 347 

Bread Pudding 347 

Queen of Puddings 347 

Suet Pudding 348 

Apple and Rice Pudding 348 

Berry or Fruit Pudding 348 

Paradise Pudding 348 

Carrot Pudding 349 

Eve's Pudding 349 

Fruit Suet Pudding 349 

Cheese Pudding 349 

Fig Pudding 350 

Oatmeal Pudding 35o 

Layer Pudding 35o 



CHAPTER XXT.—Fkied Ckeam, Batter Puddings, Frxxteks, 
Doughnuts, Etc. 



Orchard Beach Doughnut 



351 To make Crullers 354 



Puffs 354 

French Toast 3.55 

Fried Fingers 356 

Crullers 355 



Batter Pudding 351 

Lemon Puffs 351 

Fritters 352 

Steam Batter Pudding 352; 

Potato Puffs , 352j(TOod Plain Doughnuts 355 

Crullers 352;Batter Pudding 356 

Chocolate Puffs 352 Crullers 356 

Cocoa-nut Puffs 353,To Make Apple Fritters 355 

Fritters of C'ake and Pudding ;i53iCrullers 357 

Mince Meat Fritters 354 'Doughnuts.. 35? 



I 



Index. 



o»7 



Page Page 

Crullers 357 Fritters 359 

Baked Batter Pudding 356 Pancakes 369 

Batter Pudding 357 State Bread Fritters 359 

Fried Cream 358 Mush or Hasty Pudding 360 

Batter Pudding 358 Batter Pudding 360 

Doughnuts 359 

CHAPIER XXII.— Pudding Sauces. 

Almond S.iuce 36l!Plain White Sauce 364 

Sauce for Sponge Pudding 361 1 Orange Syrup 364 

Pudding Sauce 36ll Hard Sauce 364 

Mace Compound '362iSweet Sauce 365 

Lemon Sauce 362 [Maple Syrup for Puddings 365 

Raisin Sauce 363jPudding Sauce 365 

Pudding Sauce ;^j3;0range Syrup 365 

Sauce for Pudding 303 Sauce 366 

Pudding Sauce.. 363 Sauce No. 2 366 

Lemon Sauce 3C3 Pudding Sauce 366 

Flavouring for Sauces 363 

CHAPTER XXIII.— Home-made Extracts. 



Extract of Spices 367 

Vanilla 367 

Lemon Peel 307 

Almond Flavouring 367 

To Preserve Orange Peel 368 

Nutmeg Extract 368 

Clove Extract 368 



Vanilla 369 

Almond Flavour 369 

Extract of Lemon Peel 369 

Capillaire or Simple Syrup 369 

Flavouring for Cakes 3(59 

Essence of Orange 370 

Essence of Lemon 370 



CHAPTER XXIV— Meringues. 

Meringues 371|Meringue3 372 

To Make a French Meringue 371 Italian Macaroons 373 

Italian Meringues 371 Apple Meringue Pies 373 

Apple Meringue 372 Cream Meringues 374 

An Apple Meringue 372 Meringue of Apples 374 



CHAPTER XXV.— Custards, Creams, Etc. 



Floating Islands 375 

Apple Snow 375 

Boiled Custard 375 

Baked Custard 370 

Chicken Custards for Six 376 

Chocolate Cream Custard ...... 37t> 

Potato Custard 377 

Apple Snow 377 

Almond Custard 377 

Boiled Custards 377 

Rice Custards 378 

French Flummery 378 



Snow Custard 378 

Baked Custard 379 

Checolate Custard : 379 

Floating Apple Island 379 

Apple Snow 380 

Baked Custard 380 

Tomato Custard 380 

( chicken Blancmange 381 

Russian Cream 381 

Chocolate Cream 382 

CJhocolate Blancmange 382 

Tapioca Cream 38? 



588 Index, 

Page Page 

Spanish Cream 382 Lemon Cream 387 

Charlotte Russe 383 Chocolate Moss 388 

Spanish Cieam 383 Curds and C "ream 388 

Charlotte Russe 383 Charlotte Eusse 388 

Hamburg Cream 384 American Cream 388 

Caledonia Cream 381 Whipt Cream 389 

Spanish Cream 384 Tapioca Blancmange 389 

Italian Cream 384 ( 'arrageen Moss Blancmange .... 390 

Charlotte Russe 385 Ireland Moss 389 

Snow Cream (a supper dish) 385 J Charlotte Russe 390 

Charlotte Russe 385 Italian C'ream 390 

Sponge Cream 386 Rice Blancmange 390 

Charlotte Eusse 386 Velvet Cream 391 

Peach Meringue 386 Burnt Cream 391 

Blancmange 386 Snow 391 

Blancmange 387 Apple Trifle 392 

Apple Cream 387 S:igo ('ream 392 

CHAPTER XXVI.— Ice Creams, Water Ices akd Frosting. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 393, Orange Ice Water 39*? 

Another Ice Cream 393| Lemon Water Ice 395 

Cm-rant, Raspberry or Strawberry i Fruit Ices 396 

Whisk 393 Currant Ice Watter 396 

Strawberry Ice Cream 394 Frosting 396 

Ice Cream (delicious) 394:('hocolate Icing 396 

Lemon Ice Cream 394 Icing Fruit Pies and Tarts 397 

Pineapple Cream 394 Almond Icing for Cakes 397 

Ice Cream 395 To Make Icing for Cakes 397 

Water Ices Generally 395 Frosting Without Eggs 398 

CHAPTER XXVII.- Cake, Cookies, and GixVger-Bread. 

Fruit cake 399 Orange cake 404 

Frcfeted. cake 399 I/emon cake 404 

Sponge cake 399 Cocoa-nut Sponge cake. . ! 404 

Fruit cake 400 Prunella drops 404 

Prince's cake 400 Fruit cake " 40.5 

Jelly cake 400 Sjionge cake 405 

Show cake 400 Golden cake 40.5 

Sponge cake 401 Silver cake 405 

A Small si)onge cake 401 Gold cake 406 

Marble cake 401 Silver cake 406 

Jelly cake 401 Fruit cake , 406 

Gold cake 402 Alabama calce 406 

Silver cake- 402 S]>onge cake 407 

Sponge cake 402 White cake 407 

White Sponge cai:e 402 Tea cake 407 

Fruit cake 102 A Nice Fruit cake 407 

Jelly cake 403 Wedding cake 407 

Jelly cake 40:! Sponge Cake 408 

Short-bl-ead 403.Uolly Varden Cake 408 

Cliocolate cake •403'Corn Starch Cake 408 



I..<l.r 580 

P virr. Page 

Scotch Shortbread .409 Jelly cake 423 

Marble fake 409 Pound cake A%i 

Jelly Sandwich 40;t Fruit cake . 423 

Cream Cake 400 I^.ailroad cak- 424 

Cocoa Cake 410 Jelly cake 424 

Orange Cake (delicious) 410 Fruit cake 424 

Orange Cake 410 Citron cake 425 

Jelly Cake 411 Jelly cake 425 

New Year!s Fruit Cake 411 Cliocolate cake 425 

New Year's Pound Cake 411 Molasses cake 425 

Sponge Cake 411 Pound cake 425 

Corn Starch Cake 411 Fruit cake 426 

Fig Cake 412 Short-bread 426 

Excellent Cup Cake 412 Sponge cake 426 

\Va--ihington Cake 412 Orange cake 426 

Si>onge Cake 412 Pound cake 426 

Sixjuge Cake 41o Rolled Jelly Cake 427 

Peach Cake 413 Jelly Cake 427 

Lady Fingers 413 Fruit Cake 427 

A Much Admired Cocoa-nut Cake 413 Scotch Short-bread 427 

Com Storch Cake 414 Roll Jelly Cake 428 

Jelly Cake 414 Sct.>tc:h Short-bread 428 

Lemon Jelly Cake 414 Large Sponge Cake 428 

Ice Cream Cake 41-> Rolled Sandwich 428 

Light Sponge Cake 41o Pound Cake 428 

Jelly Cake 415 Fruit Cake 429 

Lemon Cake 415 Iced Sandwich 42'J 

Plain Fruit Cake. 416 Princess Cake 429 

Pound Cake 41ti Lemon Cake 429 

Fruit Cake. 41ti Fruit Cake 480 

Lady Cake 41(1 Orange Cake 430 

Sponge Cake 417 Scotch Short-bread 430 

Yellow Lily Cake 417 Fruit Cake 431 

Surprise Cake 417 , Cup Cake 431 

Strawberry Short cake- 417 Jelly Cake 431 

Sugar Cake . . 41 S Cheap Fmit Cake 431 

Sponge cake 418 Iced Cake 431 

Plain Fruit cake 418 White Wedding Cake 432 

C.lden caker 418 Ratafias 432 

Silver cake 418 Nice Cookies 432 

Sponge cake 410 Ratafia Cookies 433 

Cocoa Nut cake 41 9 Number One Cookies 432 

Royal Fruit cake 410 Cookies 432 

Lady cake 420 Cookies 43;? 

Scotch Shortbread 4J0 Molasses Cookies 43;i 

Plum cake 421 Cookies 4-34 

Delicate cake 421 Cookies 434 

Com Starch cake 421 Cookies 434 

Sponge cake 422 Cookies 434 

Mrs. Owen's cake 422 Cookies 434 

Snow-ball cake 422 Cookies 435 

Com Starch cake 422 Charcoal Finger cakes 435 

Spongecake 422 Carrowaj' Ginger-bread 435 

Roll Jelly cake 423 Ginger cake 436 



590 Index. 

Page| Page 

Ginger Snaps 436 Ginger Snaps 4.i'J 

Soft Ginger-bread 430 Ginger-bread 440 

Soft Ginger-bread 437 Ginger-bread 440 

Soft Ginger-bread 437 Soft Genger-breatl 440 

Ginger Snaps 437jGood Every-day Ginger-bread. . . 440 

Ginger Snaps 437JGinger Snaps 440 

Ginger-bread 437 Choice Ginger-bread 441 

Thin Ginger Snaps (without eggs) 438 Soft Ginger-bread 441 

Honey Ginger cake 438 Wlieat Meal Ginger-bread 441 

Ginger Snaps 438 Ginger cakes 441 

Ginger Snaps 438 Ginger-nuts 442 

Soft Ginger-bread 438iYorkshire cakes 442 

Soft Ginger-cake 439jRice Cheese cakes 442 

Plum Ginger-bread 439lExcellent Sponge Cake 442 

CHAPTER, XX\ail. —Sandwiches, Breakfast andTe\ Relishes, 
Entrees, Croquettes, etc. 

Grated Ham Sandwiches 443;Mock Duck 448 

Sausage Rolls 443 Jellied Chicken 449 

Pork Cake 443 Minced Veal 449 

French Dish 444 Pickled Herrings 449 

Cold Pink 444;Jellied Veal 449 

Chicken Halibut 444! Little Pork Pies for Breakfast. . 450 

Minced Veal 444 Mushrooms 450 

Spiced Meat 445jFisli Croquettes 4.'!;i 

Omelette 445 Chicken Sandwich 451 



Fish Balls 445 

Codfish Balls 446 

Omelette 446 



Ham Omelette 451 

To Cook Canned Salmon and 
Lobster 452 



French Mode of Warming Veal. . 446 Salmon in a Mould 452 

Chicken Loaf 447' Relish for Cold Meat Sandwiches 4.52 

Sardine Sandwiches 447 : Fried Chicken 453 

A Delicate Omelette 447 Scalloped Chicken 453 

Sandwiches 448 Rissoles 453 

Scalloped Veal 448 Croquettes of Mutton 4.54 

Potato Omelette 448 Lie big Sandwiches 4.54 

CHAPTER XXIX. — Savoury Jellies and Jellies. 

Aspic Jelly 455 Chicken Jelly 456 

Hartshorn Jelly 455 Orange Jelly 457 

Isinglass Jelly 455 Currant Jelly 457 

Lemon Jelly 456 Strawberry Jelly 458 

Tapioca Jelly 4561 Apple Jelly 458 

Jellied Chicken 456' Apple Jelly in moulds 458 

CHAPTER XXX. —Cheese, Dairy and Cows. 

Fondue 459 Cows 461 

Cheese Straus 4.59 Cheese Cream 462 

Cream Cheese 460 To Prepare Rennet to Turn Milk 462 

To Make Butter 460 Napkin Cheese 462 



In dec. 501 

CHAPTER XXXI.— Pickles akd Catsups. 

Page Pack 

Chowder 46:3 Sweet Apples Pickled 470 

Tomato Catsup . ... 463 Spiced Currants 479 

Currant Catsup 4(>;3 Chowder 470 

Pickled Plums 464 Spiced Tomatos 470 

Cold Slaw 464 India-pickle 470 

Tomato Catsup 464 Bombay-chutney 471 

Recipe for Making Vinegar. .. 464 Spanish Pickle 471 

Ripe Cucumber Pickle 464 Tomato Catsup 471 

Tomato Catsup 465 Tomato Chowder 472 

Sweet Apple Pickle 46.t Chow-chow 472 

Sweet Tomato Pickle 46.5 Tomato-paste 472 

Green Tomato Pickle 46.5 Spiced Currants 472 

Tomato Mustard 466 One Way to Make TomatoCatsup 473 

Spiced Currants 4t>() Pickled Ca\iliflower 473 

Indian Pickles 4WJ Pickled Cabbage 473 

Tomato Relish 467 Pickle<l Butternuts and Walnuts 474 

Sweet Cum;nt Pickle 467 C»icumber or Gherkin Pickle 474 

Sweet-pickled Apples 467 Sliced Cucumber Pickles (very 

Tomato Ketchup 467 nice) 475 

Mustard Pickle 468 To Green Pickles 476 

Tomat*! Catsup 468 Summer Pickles for present use . 476 

< hutney and Quihi 468 Picalilly 476 

Pickled" Onions 461) Wholesomeness of Pickles 477 

Tomato Mustard 46".t Soy 477 

Pickled Peaches 169 Mushroom Catsup 477 

Pickled (blue) Plums 469 Herb Spirit 477 

CHAPTER XXXII.— Pkeserving and Cansting Fbuit. 

Raspberry Wine 478 Lemon Marmalade 485 

Artificial Honey 478 Currant Jelly 486 

Kaspljerry or Strawberry Acid . . 478 Strawberry Jam 486 

Pine Apple Marmalade 479 Preserved Jellies and Jams 486 

< rrape Jelly 479 Rhubarb Marmalade 487 

How to preserve Tomatoes, &c. 479 Apple Marmalade 487 

Grape Jell}- 480 Green Grapes Preserved 487 

Orange Marmalade 430 Quince Marmalade 488 

Raspberry Vinegar 481 Tomatoes Preserved 489 

Marmalade 481 To Preserve Strawberries 489 

Apples 482 Green Gooseberry Jelly 490 

Peaches 4S2 Peach Jam ". 490 

Pears 482 Peach Chiijs 491 

Plums 482 Pine-apple Jelly 491 

l^uinces 483 To Preserve Quinces 492 

To Dry Cherries and Plums 483 How to Cook Cranberries 492 

Gages 483 Canned Plums 492 

Cranberries 484 Canned Tomatoes 493 

Quinces Whole 484 Canned Tomatoes and Com 493 

lo Preser\ e Oranges 484 Citron Melon Preserve 493 

To Stew Prunes 485, Cherries 494 

Receipt for Currant Wine 485 Quince Marmalade 494 

Raspberry Vinegar 485' White or Green Plums 494 

30 



)92 



Index. 



CHAPTER XXXIII —Candy. 



Page 

Caramels 495 

Vinegar Candy 495 

Home-made Cream Candy 495 

Nut Candy 496 

Cocoa-nut Drops 496 

Prunella Drops 496 

Candy 496 

Treacle Candy 496 

Kisses 497 

Chocolate Caramels 497 



Pare 

Everton Toffy 497 

Caramel 497 

Chocolate Creams 498 

Toffy 498 

Cream Candy 498 

Cocoa-nut Drops 499 

Fruit Drops of Lemon Juice 498 

Ginger Drops, a good Stomachic. 499 

Peppermint Drops 499 

Barley Sugar 499 



CHAPTER XXXIV.— Pickling Bkine. 



To Prepare a Round of Beef for i To Spice a Round of Beef. 

Baking _ 500!Curing Pork 

Spiced Beef for Drying 500 

Pickle for Hams 601 

Dried Meat 501 

A good mode of Smoking Meat . . 501 
Hamburg Pickle for Beef 501 



. 592 
.. 502 

To Preserve Smoked Meats 502 

Pickling Beef 502 

To Pickle Tongues 503 

To Cure Bacon 503 

To Spice a Round of Corned Beef .504 



CHAPTER XXXV.— Washing and Cleaning. 



Washing Clothes 

\\ ard Soap 

Washing Fluid 

Recipe for Bleaching Cotton 

Washing Blue . . 

(Poison) Salts of Jjcmon for Ex- 
tracting Iron Mould 

To Remote Fr\jit Stains from 
Linen 

To Remove Grease Spots 

Economical Soap 

To Clean Carpets 

To Clean Black Lace . - 

To (Jlean China 

" Linen 

To take out Spots of Pitch 



505i 
50o! 
506 
506 
506 

506 

506 
507 
507 
507 
507 
508 
508 
508 



Kid (41oves 508 

'J'o Wash New Black Worsted 

Stockings 509 

To Clean Hair brushes -509 

Starching Cuffs and Clollars 509 

To Wash New Flannels 510 

To Prevent Prints from Fading. . 510 

To Clean Shaw's 510 

To Wash Flannels 511 

Flannels 511 

Gloss Starch 511 

Fruit Stains, No. 2, .512 

To Wash Coloured Stockings .... 512 
On the Art of Polishing Shirts and 

Collars 512 

To Dress Collars 513 



CHAPTER XXXVL— To banish Vermin and Insects. 

To Kill Flics 513|To Destroy Insects on JHouse 

Bed- Bugs 513! plants 514 

How to get rid of Cockroaches . . 513lTo Destroy Cockroaches 514 

Chloride of lime to destroy insects 513 To Destroy Flies 515 

Remedy for Bed Bugs 5]4|To Exterminate Beetles 515 

To Keep Flies from Horses 514jTo Destroy Flies in a room 515 

To Keep away Mosquitoes 514 To Clear Vegetables of Insects. . . 51.5 



Index. 50o 

CHAPTER XXXVII.— General Txf^rMatiox. 

Page Pa«e 

Useful Hints 516 Economy in Bread-crusts 521 

Weights and Measures 516 To Protect Doors while Cleaning. 521 

To llemove Ink Spote Sir: Salt 521 

Cement for Shell Work 517 Facts of Value to the Housewife, 

To Keep Cream Sweet 517 Salt 521 

To take Grease out of Wood 517 Fresh Meat 5?l 

Green Copperas 517 Boilin? Water .521 

Molasses 518Fipe Tomatos 522 

ilince Meat 518 Turjjentine 522 

To Extract Grease from Papered Boiled Starch 522 

Walls 518 Bees-wax and Salt 522 

To Clean Furniture 518 Kerosene Oil -522 

Remedy for Milk Turning Sour. . 518 Kerosene 522 

To Restore Colour to Clothes .... .518 Machine t'irease 522 

To Keep Grapes 519 Stains on Marble 522 

Celery 519 Celery Co^.ked 523 

Currants for Cakes 519 To «?ook Celery -523 

Crickets , 519 A Lemon .523 

Worms 520 Worth Knowing 524 

French Mustard (to keep) 520 ( icrman Polish for Furniture .... 524 

Cow's Milk .520Ceuient .524 

Tomatoes 520 Lime Water 524 

CHAPTER XXXVIII.— CoMPLExiox, Hair, Naim, Teeth, &c. 

Toilet Wash 525 Lip Salve 527 

Preparation for the Hair, .525 'Invaluable Dentriiice, 527 

Dentrifices 1, 2, 3, 525 Balsam for Chapi>ed Lips 527 

Cosmetic Soap 526 ( 'urling Fluid 527 

To Keep the Hands Clean and Whiskers and Moustaches 528 

Smooth 526 For Thickening the Hair 528 

Glycerine Soap for chapped hands. To Whiten the Nails 528 

lips, &c 526 To Whiten the Hands 528 

Soft Hands, 527 A certain cure for Soft Corns 528 

CHAPTER XXXIX.— Summer AND other Drinks. 

Lemon Acid .529 Strawberry Vinegar 532 

Pine Apple Sherbet, 529 Orange Sherbet 532 

Cream Nectar 52!) Orangea-le 532 

Home Made Ginger Beer 530 Grape Wine (simple and peTiect). -532 

Lemon Syrup .530, Good Nectar 533 

Cream Nectar 530 Orangeade 533 

For Nectar or Soda No. 2 530;Ginfrerade 533 



Nectar 531 

Ginger Beer .531 

Ambro.sia (a Summer drink).... 531 

Strawberry Sherbet (delicious) . . 531 



Raisin Wine 533 

Cranberry Wine 5-34 

S.'irsaparilla Mead 5.34 

Summer Beverage 534 



CHAPTER XL.— Cookery for the Sick. 

Apple Water 5^5 Wine Jelly , .53fi 

Beef Tea 53."> Chicken Jelly, 537 

Calvcs" feet Jelly ,535 Wine Jellv 537 

Chicken Jelly .536 Wine Jelly 537 



594 



Index. 



Page I Page 

Preparing Food fur Invalids ..; . . 537 1 Linseed Tea 539 

A Nourishing Food for Invalids 537jSago., 539 

Calf Foot Jelly 53HjTamarands or Cranberry Juice. . . 539 

Black Currant Jam W&ter 538 Barley Water. 539 

Kice Water 538 1 Arrowroot Cnstard for Invalds . . 540 

(ium Arabac Water, 539, Sim pie Wine Whey 540 



CHAPTER X LI.— Specifics and Remedies. 



Receipt for Neuralgia 541 

For Treatment of Dysentary .... 541 
Treatment of all kinds of Sciatica 

and Neuralgic Pains ... 541 

Raw Onions 542 

A Healing Salve 542 

Burns and Scalds 542 

Chilblains 542 

Sore Throat 542 

Pile Ointment 542 

Bleeding at the Nose 543 

Chilblains .543 

(jure for Corns 543 

To Cure Felons 543 

Cure for Chafing 543 

Corns between the Toes .543 

Cold in the Head .544 

Corns 544 

To Cure the Quinsey 544 

A Cure for Dj-sentery 544 



Lumbago and Strains 

Excelleilt Eye Wash 

Face Ache 

Remedy for Croup 

Rheumatism 

Kheumatism in Face and Teeth. . 

Remedy for Croup 

Embrocation for Rheumatism . . . 

Cough Compound . . 

For Colds 

Cure for Earache 

Geranium Leaves 

Cranberries as a Cure for Cancer 

To Cool Inflammation . . 

To Remove Tea Stains 

Small Pox 

For a Scald or Bum 

Chromate of Potash for Warts. . . 

Cure for Prickly Heat 

Lemon Juice for Pain 



544 
.545 
545 
.545 
545 
546 
.546 
.546 
546 
547 
547 
547 
547 
547 
54S 
.548 
548 
549 
549 
.549 



CHAPTER XLIL— Miscellanea. 

How to Make Candles out of lard 550iWhite Lily Cake.. . 

Baking Powder (original) 550, Yellow do 

Prince Cake. . . 550 Larding 

Baking Powder 550 Braising 

Corn Starch Cake 551|Glazing , 



Baked Indian Pudding 551 

C!aramel Cake 551 

Quaker Omelet 552 

Sauce Piquante (as taught in the 

School at Kensington) 552 

Bacon 552iSweet Grape Wine. 

Chloride of Lime 553 To Prepare Caramel or Burnt 



Boning 

Blanching 

Invisible Cement 

Polish for Boots, Harr.ess, &c.. 
French Polish Reviver (o.vcellent) 



Milk Soups 553 

Mustard Sauce (very good with 

boiled beef) .553 

Fillets of Mackerel 554 

How to Boil a Fowl 554 

Ink Stains 554 

Remedy for Sore Throat .554 

Whites of Eggs 555 

To Keep Lemons .555 

Potted Chicken 555 Bills of Fare for Family Meals. . . 

Sponge Cake .5.551 Blank Pages for Notes, &c 

A Nice Dish of Apples .5-56 Conclusion 



Sugar . 

Scent Bag .... 

To Prepare Verjuice 

" Apple Butter ... . 

Piquante Sauce 

Oyster Ketchup 

I.,aplands 

To Cook a Beefsteak 

To Take Stains oiit of Silver 



556 
556 
556 
557 
557 
558 
558 
558 
558 
558 
559 

559 

559 
560 
560 
.560 
561 
561 
561 
.561 
.563 
568 
572 



