Home Cookery. 



250 



TESTED RECEIPTS. 



BY M RS. H, ( • t- 



^ 



-7 



A^ 



SEJCOIsTID EIDITXOIsr. 



'/X. 



PH ILADELPHIA 
^881 




''■^ 






^l^^ 



COPYRIGHT BY 
JACKS (J N BROTHERS. 



JACKSON BROTHERS. 

PRINTERS, 
402 LIBRARY STREET, 

PHILADA. 



PREFACE. 



This cookery book bases its claim to the attention of 
the housewife on the fact that each receipt has been practi- 
cally tested in the ordinary course of household affairs and 
has met the approval of more than one competent judge. 

The number of receipts has been purposely limited, in 
order that no one may have the least difficulty in finding 
and choosing a dish, and that there may yet be a sufficient 
variety to please the most capricious taste. 

Mrs. H. 

November, iSSo. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

SOUPS 5 

SHELL FISH 14 

FISH 18 

MEATS 20 

GAME AND POULTRY 20 

MADE DISHES 82 

VEGETABLES 43 

SALADS 40 

P>REAKFAST AND TEA CAKES 48 

SAUCES 51 

PASTRY 56 

PUDDINGS ; Gl 

DISHES FOR DESSERT 71 

PLAIN SWEET CAKES 78 

FANCY CAKES 86 

PRESERVES, JELLIES, BEVERAGES, CANDIES, ETC 89 

PICKLES % 

POTTING 98 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT. 

IG drains 1 ounce. 

16 ounces 1 pound. 

28 pounds 1 quarter of hundred. 

4 quarters, or 112 pounds I hundred. 

20 hundred 1 ton. 

LIQUID MEASURE. 

4 gills 1 pint. 

2 pints 1 quart. 

4 quarts 1 gallon. 

<i3 gallons 1 hogshead. 

2 hogsheads 1 pipe or butt. 

2 pipes 1 tun. 

DRY MEASURE, FOR GRAIN, FRUIT AND POTATOES. 

2 pints 1 quart. 

8 quarts 1 peck. 

4 pecks 1 bushel. 

8 bushels 1 quarter. 



The following approximation of weights may be useful to housekeepers 
not having scales : 

Wheat flour, one qt. is one lb. 
Indian corn, one qt. is one lb. one oz. 
Butter, when soft, one qt. is one lb. one oz. 
Loaf sugar, broken, one qt. is one lb. 
White sugar, powdered, one qt. is one lb. one oz. 
Best brown sugar, one qt. is one lb. two oz. 
Eggs, (avtrage size,) ten eggs are one lb. 
Sixteen large tablespoonfuls make a half-pint, 
and eight make a gill. 



INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS. 



PAGE 

Allen & Bro Furniture , lOG 

Barrett & Marshall Hardware 109 

Bendimere, F , China repaired 112 

Borden & Bro Ventilators IOC) 

Brown, C Groceries 102 

Bush, F. M Upholsterer 103 & 107 

Bush Hill Second-Hand Store 112 

Carrick, David, & Co Crackers 110 

Chillman, P. E Photographer 107 

Continental Carpet Cleaning Works Ill 

Cook & Bro Hosiery 4 

Davis, A Butcher 102 

Earle & Sons Picture Galleries 115 

Grieb, J. L Tailor Ill 

Hamrick & Son Jewelers 109 

Harlan, T. H Groceries 101 

Harman, J. C Umbrellas 101 

Howell & Bourke Paper Hangings 108 

Howson & Sons Patents 115 

Hutchison, H Apothecary 107 

Jarrett, B. F Groceries 117 

Knowles, L. & Co Flour 116 

Lutz, G. L Tailor 107 

Matthews & Co Stationery 101 

McCallum, Crease & Sloan, Carpetings 114 

Medlar, A. J. Co Crackers 102 

Paxson, Comfort & Co Monuments 114 

Schoch, H. J Livery Stables 116 

Schwartz, G. A Toys 112 

Sichel, J Millinery 107 

Slack, J Groceries 110 

Sutherland , William Gardener 102 

Stewart, Pierce & Co Notions 194 

Strawbridge & Clothier Dry Goods llo 

Thackara, Buck & Co Gas Fixtures Ill 

Toy & Bro Plumbing 110 

Vandegrift, CM Hardware IKJ 

AVanamaker, J. & Co Clothing 108 

Wanamaker, John Grand Depot lor) 

Wiener Bros , Fruiters 104 

Willimantic Co Spool Cotton 109 

Wood, S. C Confectionery 100 



COOK & BROTHER, 

cf/ ^ oS (^M^ ^^/d t^4^^/, 



. PHILADELPHIA, 

Are the largest Retail dealers In Hosiery and Underwear 
in America. 

Our Importations embrace the productions of every 
manufacturer of reputation in 

ENGLAND, 

SCOTLAND, 

IRELAND, 

FRANCE, 

SWITZERLAND, and 
GERMANY. 

While our Domestic Department represents the Products of 



Our Stock is unequalled anywhere in the great essentials of 



sou PS. 



CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUPS 

AND GRAVIES. 

One pound of brown sugar, one pint of cold water ; put 
sugar in a perfectly dry saucepan, and when it changes 
color, add a little cold water to cool the sugar, then add the 
rest of the water ; as soon as it boils, take from the fire, and 
it is then ready for use. D. 



ASPARAGUS SOUP. 



ONE HOUR. 



Boil a bunch of asparagus until quite soft; in another 
saucepan boil some milk ; thicken it with flour and quarter- 
pound of butter; season with pepper and salt; and just 
before serving, strain the water from the asparagus on the 
milk and flour and butter ; then serve. 



BEAN SOUP. 

Two pounds of salt pork, four quarts of water, a quart of 
beans ; add a teaspoonful of soda. Let the beans boil until 
the hulls will easily slip off; take them out and throw them 
in cold water ; rub Avell with the hands — the hulls will rise 
to the top — drain carefully, and repeat until the hulls are 

2 



6 POFPS. 

removed; put the beans back in the pot with the pork. 
Season with pepper, salt, thyme, some potatoes cut small, 
and grated carrot. Cut toast in pieces and put in the tureen. 



BEEF TEA. 

Take one pound of beef, remove the fat and cut it up in 
very small pieces, and cut up one bunch of celery, or a tea- 
spoonful of celery-seed, and a very small red pepper ; pour on 
one pint of cold water, and let it stand two hours ; then take 
out the pepper, and put the saucepan on the range and let 
the tea simmer slowly two hours. Strain it before giving it 
to the patient. 



BLACK OR TURTLE BEAN SOUP. 

Take one quart of beans and soak for tAventy-four hours 
before cooking. Take the remains of a roast of beef, as free 
from fat as possible, or two pounds of beef and one pound of 
salt pork — this is better than the ribs, as it flavors the soup 
better. Boil together in a large pot, in six or eight quarts of 
water, first adding six onions, cut up fine. Boil the whole for 
five hours. Mash and strain out the bean-skins ; flavor with 
a bunch of herbs, thyme and celery ; pepper and salt to taste ; 
add a half-pint of wine to a tureen of soup. Put in six or 
eight hard boiled eggs, and serve with lemon. 



CLAM SOUP. 

Put a quart of clams, with their liquor, on the fire with a 
pint of water ; boil them about three minutes, during which 



SOUPS. 7 

skim them well, then strain them and remove the soft portions 
of the clams and keep them warm ; return the liquor to the 
fire, with the hard portions of the clams, half an onion, a 
sprig of thyme, three or four sprigs of parsley, and one large 
blade of mace ; cover it and let it simmer for half an hour. 
In the meantime put three ounces of butter into a stewpan, 
and when it bubbles sprinkle in two ounces or one heaping 
tablespoonful of flour; stir it on the fire until cooked, and 
then stir in gradually a pint of hot cream or milk ; add this 
to the clam liquor (strained), with a seasoning of salt and a 
little cayenne pepper, also the soft clams, without chopping 
them. When well mixed, and thoroughly hot (without boiling) 
serve immediately. 



CONSOMME SOUP. 

TIME, 4 HOURS AND HALF. 

Boil three pounds of meat in five pints of water four 
hours ; let it cool. Then remove the fat from the stock ; 
pour the stock into the boiler and let it get hot ; then separate 
the whites of two eggs — add to the whites a little salt and 
pepper and half-gill of cold water; then beat them up. 
When the stock gets tepid, throw in the whites of the eggs 
and seasoning, with the shells ; stir up with two forks. The 
instant it boils, the egg rises to the top and takes off imper- 
fections. Then, when it has boiled about three minutes, 
pour it through a clean kitchen towel. A little browning 
should be used to color it. Boil some turnips and carrots 
about ten minutes, and put them in the tureen, and pour the 
stock over it. 



SOUPS. 



CORN SOUP 



Clean and scrape twelve ears of corn ; boil the cobs fifteen 
minutes in one quart of Avater — remove them and put in the 
corn ; let it boil a short time, then add two quarts of milk ; 
season with pepper and salt; butter that has been melted 
enough to rub two tablespoonfuls of flour. Let the whole boil 
ten minutes, then turn the soup into a tureen, in which have 
been placed the yolks of three beaten eggs; stir well and serve. 



GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Take a knuckle of veal, cut it in pieces and put it in a 
soup-kettle with four quarts of water; boil it moderately fast 
and skim it well ; when the meat is boiled to rags strain it 
out and put in the liquor a quart of green peas — they must 
be young. Boil them until dissolved, and till they have 
thickened the soup and given it a green color ; have ready 
two quarts of green peas that have been boiled in another 
pot, and if liked, a sprig of mint and a teaspoonful of sugar, 
(which will greatly improve the taste) ; after they have boiled 
in this pot twenty minutes, take out the mint, put the whole 
peas into the pot of soup, and boil all together ten minutes, 
then put it into a tureen and serve. 



LOBSTER • SOUP. 

The foundation should be made of fish, or any white stock 
whether of fish or meat answers perfectly well. Take care 
that all the fat is removed from the stock. Let it boil, and 
add two or three tablespoonfuls of flour ; stir it over the fire 



SOUPS. & 

until it thickens, then put in two ounces of butter — when 
dissolved, beat in the yolks of two eggs, and stir moderately 
for ten minutes; withdraw the stewpan to the side of the 
range, so that it will keep simmering. Put in the soup a 
canned lobster, or a fresh boiled lobster ; let it cook ten 
minutes. 



MOCK-TURTLE or CALF'S-HEAD SOUP. 

Take the liquor the calf's head was boiled in and put in 
four sliced potatoes, three turnips, two carrots, one small 
onion — all cut fine — some chopped parsley, sweet marjoram, 
thyme, some celery-seed, pepper pod and salt; after it has 
well boiled, strain through a cullender ; then mix two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and one of butter smooth, and add to the 
soup, with one teaspoonful of caramel. Let it boil again ; 
if not seasoned enough, add more ; have three hard-boiled 
eggs — mash the yolks and put them in the tureen, and pour 
the soup over them ; add a half-pint of wine. Make force 
meat balls of minced veal and beef suet, in equal quantities ; 
season with pepper and salt, sweet herbs, nutmeg and mace, 
and some beaten yolk of egg to make all these ingredients 
stick together ; flour your hands, and make up in balls — flour 
the balls well and fry in butter ; put some in the soup, or send 
them to table on a separate dish. 



K R A GUMBO. 

Cut up one chicken — an old one is preferable ; wash and 
dry it ; flour it well, add salt and pepper ; have ready in a 
saucepan a lump of lard the size of an egg — let it get hot ; 
then put in the chicken ; fry it brown all over, but do not let 



10 SOUPS. 

it burn ; put it in the vessel in which you make soup ; pour on 
it five quarts of water, let it boil two hours, then cut up about 
two okra pods and add them to it — be sure they are tender; 
then let it boil another hour. "When you first put on the soup 
cut up an onion in it, salt and pepper to taste. To be served 
with rice. Dried Okra can be used if soaked over night. 



ORIENTAL MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. 

Cut up a chicken, put it into a soup-kettle, with a small 
sliced onion, carrot, celery, parsley, three cloves, a very little 
cayenne pepper, some salt ; cover it with four quarts of 
water ; add any pieces of veal, with the bones — of course a 
knuckle of veal would be the proper thing ; add a quarter of 
a cup of rice. When the pieces of chicken are nearly done 
take them out, and trim them neatly to serve with the soup. 
Let the veal continue to simmer for three hours. Now fry an 
onion, a small carrot, and a stick of celery sliced, in a little 
butter ; when they are a light brown throw in a tablespoonful 
of flour ; stif" it on the fire one or two minutes, then add a 
good teaspoonful of curry powder, and the chicken and veal 
broth; place this on the fire to simmer for an hour; half-an- 
hour before dinner strain the soup, skim off" the fat, return it 
to the fire with the pieces of chicken and two or three table- 
spoonfuls of whole boiled rice. This will give time enough 
to cook the chicken thoroughly. 



OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Take three ox-tails — these will make a large tureen of 
soup ; ask your butcher to divide them at the joints ; rub 
them Avith salt and put them to soak in warm water while you 



SOUPS. 11 

prepare the vegetables — three stalks of celery, two carrots, 
two turnips, two onions, a bunch of savory herbs, a teaspoonful 
of pepper-corns ; three quarts of water. Put the ox-tails in 
soup-kettle, with an ounce of butter, the vegetables, and a 
half-pint of cold water ; stir it over the fire for a short time, 
until the pan is covered with a glaze, then pour in the three 
quarts of water. Skim it well, and simmer slowly for four 
hours, or until the tails are tender; take them out, strain the 
soup, stir in a little flour to thicken it ; add a glass of port- 
wine, a half-head of celery previously boiled and cut in small 
pieces ; put the pieces of tail in the kettle of strained soup ; 
boil it up for a few minutes and serve. 

This soup can be served clear by omitting the flour, and 
adding to it the carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes, with 
a head of celery in slices. These may be boiled in a little of 
the soup, and put into the tureen before sending to table. 



OYSTER SOUP. 

One pint of oysters, with liquor, half-pint of milk, three 
ounces of butter, an ounce of flour, pepper and salt, and 
grain of cayenne pepper. First strain the liquor well from 
the oysters, then put it on the fire and allow it to boil ; skim 
it very carefully ; then melt the butter in a separate saucepan 
and stir in the ounce of flour ; when they are mixed, add the 
milk and stir it until it boils, then add the liquor, and let 
them boil together for two minutes ; then add the oysters, 
pepper and salt, and boil for another minute. 



PEA SOUP. 

Wash the pea pods and put them in the kettle; cover with 
cold water, and let them boil for two hours ; strain ; put back 



12 SOUPS. 

the water into the kettle, and enough milk to make as much 
soup as you wish, but not enough to make it look white ; mash 
some cooked peas through the cullender, and thicken with a 
little flour. Add butter, salt and pepper, to taste. The water 
in which the peas have been boiled will increase the strength 
of the soup if added. 



PEPPER POT 

Take four pounds of tripe and a set of calf's-feet; put 
them into a large pot with as much water as will cover them ; 
some whole pepper and a little salt. Put them on the fire 
early in the morning; let them boil slowly, keeping the pot 
closely covered. When the tripe is quite tender, and the feet 
boiled to pieces, take them out and skim the liquid and strain 
it — then cut the tripe into small pieces, put it back into the 
pot and pour the soup or liquor over it. Have ready some 
sweet herbs, chopped fine, some sliced onion and some sliced 
potatoes, and season them with pepper and salt ; make some 
small dumplings with flour and lard or butter ; put the vege- 
tables into the pot, add a large piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and lastly put in the dumplings; boil till the ingredients are 
thoroughly done, and then serve it up in a tureen. 



SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

{From an Old Gentleman's Diary of 1777.) 

Take one quart of split peas, put to them five quarts of 
cold water, quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, two large 
onions, one pickled herring (washed in two or three waters 
and the roes out) skinned and cut to pieces. Boil all together 
till a quart is diminished. Pour in a pint of boiling water, 



SOUPS. 13 

and let the whole boil a quarter of an hour ; take it off and 
strain it through a cullender ; throw into the soup seven or 
eight heads of celery, three heads of endive — all of them cut 
very small — together with a handful of dried mint, passed 
through a lawn sieve. Set all these on the fire and boil the 
whole near three-quarters of an hour, stirring the soup per- 
petually to prevent burning, which it will do in a moment, 
and therefore the pot should stand on a trivet. Bread cut 
small and fried crisp in butter must be thrown into the soup ; 
then serve. 



SPLIT PEA SOUP. 



I'OUR HOURS. 



Soak one quart of split peas over night; in the morning 
take three pounds of beef, a coarse piece will do, put it in the 
soup pot with the peas, add four quarts of water; boil gently 
for three hours, skimming it well, then put in a small onion 
cut up, some thyme, pepper and salt. It must be boiled till 
the peas are entirely dissolved, then strain it, and serve it up 
with toasted bread cut in small squares. 



TURKISH SOUP. 

Take one quart of stock, one tablespoonful of cream, pepper 
and salt; first wash half teacupful of rice ; then put stock and 
rice in a saucepan, allow them to boil twenty minutes ; after 
boiling, rub through a sieve with a masher, and then return 
to the saucepan ; drop into a basin the yolks of two eggs — 
add to the eggs one tablespoonful of cream, and mix them up ; 
then take a large spoonful of stock and put on the egg and 
cream, then add all the stock and put it on the fire. 



14 



SHELL FISH. 



CLAM FRITTERS. 

Wash the clams in two waters, chop them fine; add pepper 
and some chopped parsley; beat three eggs up very light and 
add to the clams; stir in a half pint of cream, slowly dredge 
in some flour until it is of the consistency of fritters; have the 
pan hot, and put in half butter and half lard, as in frying 
oysters — let it boil, and drop in a spoonful of the fritter 
batter. As soon as browned, serve hot. 



TO CHOOSE AND PREPARE CRABS. 

The heaviest crabs are usually considered the best. Have 
a pot of boiling Avater; put the crabs in and cook for half an 
hour; they are usually eaten cold. A very nice way is to 
open them and take oif the spongy part, remove the sand-bag 
and head — they are near together — empty the shell and pick 
the meat from the crab and large claws and put it back in the 
shell; or mix the meat with a very little oil, vinegar, salt, 
black and cayenne pepper to your taste, and some hard boiled 
eggs, chopped up; replace it in the large shell and put in the 
oven to brown. 



DEVILLED CRABS. 

Take twenty-four crabs, plunge them into boiling water and 
boil half an hour; break open the crab-shells; reject the 



SHELL FISH. 15 

poisonous parts and pick carefully from the inner shell, and 
save the coral colored shells to cook in. Make a dressing: of 
one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour; place the flour 
and butter together in a stew-pan; put over the fire and braid 
together; then add three eggs, beaten, one teacup of milk, 
and season with cayenne pepper and salt. Mix this dressing 
well with the crabs; place it in the shells to bake, first scatter- 
ing bread-crumbs over the top, and small bits of butter. Bake 
ten minutes. 



SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

These crabs must be cooked directly, as they will not keep 
till next day. Remove the spongy substance from each side 
of the crab and also the little sand-bag; put some lard and 
butter into a pan; when it is boiling hot put the crabs in it; 
after you take them out throw in a handful of parsley and let 
it crisp, but withdraw it before it loses its color; strew it 
over the crabs when you dish them. If you wish gravy, 
make it by adding cream or milk to the butter, with some 
chopped parsley, pepper and salt; let them all boil together 
for a few minutes, and serve in a sauce-boat. 



TO BOIL LOBSTER. 

The heaviest are the best. Put them, alive, into a kettle 
of boiling water, which has been salted, and let them boil 
from half-an-hour to three-quarters, according to their size ; 
when done take them out of the kettle, wipe them clean, and 
rub the shell with a little salad oil, which Avill give a clear, 
red appearance; crack the large claws without mashing them, 



16 SHELL FISH. 



and with a sharp knife split the body and tail from end to 
end. Send to table and dress in any way preferred. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

To one dozen of large oysters, take three eggs, one pint of 
milk; beat the eggs first, then pour in the milk and mix well; 
season with cayenne pepper and salt; drain the oysters per- 
fectly dry; first lay them in bread-crumbs, then in cracker- 
dust; have the fat boiling hot, but be careful not to let it 
burn, and fry them a light brown; when one panful is fried 
strain the fat and use it again. 



STEWED OYSTERS. 

To one dozen of oysters, one large teacupful of milk, piece 
of butter not quite the size of an egg ; season with salt and 
pepper — cayenne is better ; put on to cook, and stir until 
they come to a boil, when they are ready to be served. 



PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Take one hundred oysters, drain off the liquor, cover them 
with boiling water, stir and cook about three minutes ; take 
them off of the range and stand away to cool ; then take 
enough vinegar to cover them, and put in a teaspoonful of 
whole cloves — salt and cayenne pepper and black pepper to 
taste ; put it on to boil five minutes ; after it comes to a boil 
then add a little of the liquor that the oysters were cooked 
in ; when both are cool put the oysters in the spiced vinegar. 



SHELL FISH. 17 

STEWED SNAPPER. 

Cut the head off a snapper, then hang the snapper up 
for several hours; then put it in a pan of hot water ; wash it 
well, and break the shell and take out the meat — be careful 
of the gall — and put the meat in a pot with a very little 
water, the same as you would to stew a chicken ; when ten- 
der, make a dressing of milk, a large piece of butter, some 
allspice, mace, pepper and salt, some flour to thicken it, yolk 
of one raw egg ; when done, add wine. 



PREPARED TERRAPINS. 

Put the terrapins alive in boiling water, for three minutes, 
one by one, then take them out and take off the skin of the 
feet; then put them in a fresh pot of boiling water, with 
some salt ; let them boil for half-an-hour, or until they are 
tender ; break open the shell, use all the meat but the head ; 
be careful and not break the gall and the sand-bag, which are 
to be found in the liver; use about half of the liver, mixed 
smooth with flour and cream, the balance of the liver cut up 
with the meat. To each terrapin use a quarter-pound of 
butter, some cayenne pepper and salt, some ground allspice, 
and a small quantity of mace. To a half-dozen of terrapins 
take the yolks of four eggs, well beaten ; add to the terrapins 
after they are taken from the fire ; then add wine to the 
taste, or about half-pint to six terrapins. 



18 



FISH. 



TO BROIL FISH. 

Rub the bars of your gridiron with drippings, or a piece of 
beef suet, to prevent the fish from sticking to it. Put a good 
sized piece of butter into a dish, Avork into it enough salt and 
pepper to season the fish — lay the fish on it when it is broiled, 
and with a knife-blade put the butter over every part ; serve 
very hot. 

TO FRY FISH PLAIN. 

When the fish are cleaned and washed, dry them well with 
a cloth, and lay them out singly ; flour them, and season with 
pepper and salt, and fry them brown, in plenty of good drip- 
pings ; serve with parsley. 



FISH A LA RUSSE. 

Half-pound flour, quarter-pound of butter, one teaspoonful 
of Royal Yeast Powder, three eggs, one teacupful of boiled 
rice, one pound of fish of any kind, one gill and a half of 
cold water, and a little pepper and salt. 

First boil two eggs ten minutes, then separate the yolk from 
the white of a raw egg, add to the white a pinch of salt, then 
beat it up light ; take the flour, add the yeast powder, then 
the salt, the white of the egg, and one and a half gills of water, 



FISH. 19 

or more or less water according to the flour. After it is 
kneaded, roll out as thin as possible, then weigh quarter-pound 
of butter, and divide in three pieces — cut one piece and spread 
it over the dough, and fold it in three, and so on until you 
use all ; roll it as square as possible, then beat up the yolks 
of the eggs and brush round the side of the dough ; then put 
the boiled rice in the middle of the dough, the boiled eggs 
over the rice, and salt and pepper, and then the fish having 
the bones taken out ; then fold the crust over it all, brush the 
crust with the yolk of egg, then put it in a floured pan and 
cook for half-hour. Garnish with parsley. d. 



CODFISH BALLS. 

Soak the fish over night, then boil about two hours, and 
then pick very carefully all the little bones out ; boil some 
potatoes, and mash through the cullender so as to avoid 
lumps; have equal quantities of fish and potatoes; season with 
red pepper to taste ; chop up hard boiled eggs in drawn butter, 
and mix through it ; make up in small cakes, and fry brown. 



BOILED SALMON. 

Take some fresh salmon, put it in a napkin, and boil it 
a half-hour; have drawn butter made with hard boiled eggs 
chopped up, and put in, with chopped parsley. 



20 



MEATS 



ROAST BEEF. 

A three-rib roast of beef, weighing twelve pounds, will 
require two hours and a half to cook it, rare. Put it in a 
clean dripping-pan, without water ; do not season it, but 
baste it every quarter of an hour with its own drippings ; 
when done, remove it from the pan and strain off the drip- 
pings ; pour some back in the pan, put it on the range and 
dredge some flour in, and add pepper and salt; stir until it is 
smooth and brown, then pour some hot water in and cook for 
a few minutes. Serve in a sauce-boat, hot. 

Yorkshire Pudding, which may be baked and served 
with it, is made with one pint of milk, three eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of flour, pinch of salt, beaten to a thin batter; 
pour in the pan, Avhen the meat is half-done, and when baked, 
remove with the meat. 

A LA MODE BEEF. 

Select a piece of the round of about eight pounds, remove 
the meat around the bone carefully, keeping it whole as pos- 
sible ; cut strips half-an-inch in width and the depth of the 
meat in length, of uncooked corned pork ; run these strips 
into the beef from the top to the bottom, so that in slicing the 
meat it will cut nicely, and the more introduced the better 
the flavor. Then mix together one tablespoonful of ground 
allspice, one teaspoonful of cloves, five blades of mace, one 
tablespoonful of summer savory, one tablespoonful of sweet 



MEATS. 21 

marjoram, one tablespoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of 
salt; then make incisions in the beef and introduce through 
it the above articles, well mixed together. This must be pre- 
pared the day before it is cooked, to allow of the flavor being 
communicated to the beef. Lay in the bottom of the stew- 
pan some pieces of corned pork cut in thin slices ; on this 
lay the beef, having tied it tightly around with tape to keep 
it in good form ; then make a little bunch of thyme and 
parsley, and lay it on the beef; slice two onions, scatter them 
over the beef, then pour over it one quart of cold water, and 
set this aside to simmer very slowly for four hours. It must 
be cooked with care, and kept tightly covered. Half-hour 
before dishing, pour off the gravy and skim all the fat off; 
strain it, and add a wineglassful of mushroom catsup to half- 
pint of gravy, and stir in a spoonful of flour to thicken it ; 
let this simmer for a few minutes only, then pour it over the 
beef, removing the herbs and onions from the top, as they 
must not be served. 



FILLET OF BEEF. 

Three pounds of the fillet of beef; lard it by sticking a 
knife through different parts, in which put slices of fat salt 
pork, about half-inch wide and three long ; then tie it in 
shape with twine, and put it in a baking-pan ; in the bottom 
put some pork or suet ; sprinkle pepper and salt, and put a 
large ladle of hot stock or boiling water in the pan ; baste it 
often. It will take about forty minutes to cook it. Make a 
gravy of some stock, add some mushrooms, pepper and salt 
and caramel to brown it. 



22 MEATS. 

FILLET OF BEEF WITH SAUCE. 

Cut the beef in slices about an inch thick ; rub the grid- 
iron with butter, and put the beef on, and then over the fire 
for seven minutes, and then put it on the dish and put Dutch 
sauce around it. To make the sauce, take half-tablespoonful 
of cream, yolks of two eggs, one ounce of butter, pepper and 
salt, juice of half-lemon. Put in the saucepan half-table- 
spoon of water, the yolks of the eggs, the lemon, the cream, 
the butter ; now whisk these over the fire, but do not let it 
burn ; when hot, draw it to one side and serve. d. 



SALTING BEEF. 

Take eight pounds of coarse salt, four gallons of water, 
two ounces of saltpetre, three gills of molasses. 



ROAST OX HEART. 

Take a fresh ox heart, clean it and remove the gristle ; 
make a stuffing of sage and onions, a little cayenne, salt and 
black pepper ; sew up the opening and roast for two hours, 
basting it well ; make a nice gravy, and serve, with apple- 
sauce. 



STEWED OX HEART. 

Take a fresh ox heart, clean it and remove the gristle; 
make a stuffing of two large spoonfuls of finely chopped beef 
suet, three large spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, a little finely 



MEATS. 23 

powdered summer savory and thyme, a little cayenne ; then 
lard the heart well with strips of fat corned pork ; lay 
some slices of corned pork in the bottom of a stew-pan ; 
stuff the opening of the heart well, sew it up, and lay it in 
the stew-pan, with twelve allspice and twelve pepper-corns 
and two bay-leaves ; pour on one pint and a half of cold 
water ; cover the pot closely, and let simmer very slowly 
for two hours; then make a rich sauce: rub some flour and 
butter together, and on it pour from the stew-pan half-pint of 
the gravy, one large spoonful of mushroom catsup, and let 
this simmer ; pour some over the heart when dished, and 
send the remainder to the table in a sauce-boat. Serve hot. 



TO FRY BEEF KIDNEY. 

Take a beef kidney, cut it in thin slices, let them soak in 
warm water for two hours, changing the water twice to 
thoroughly cleanse the kidney ; dredge a very little flour over 
these slices, and fry them a nice brown in about three ounces 
of butter, seasoning them with pepper and salt. Make a 
small quantity of gravy, and serve. 



TONGUE STEWED. 

Get a beef's head and tongue from the butcher — the tongue 
to be stewed, and the head to be boiled with the tongue ; the 
liquor to be kept for stock. 



ROLLED TONGUE. 

While a boiled tongue is still warm, roll it, with the tip 
inside, and place it in a round tin just large enough to hold 



24 MEATS. 

it in place; let it stand over night, when it will remain rolled 
after being removed from the pan. Serve it whole, on a bed 
of salad, or water-cress or parsley. 



WINDHAM CUTLETS. 

Four or five mutton cutlets — half-ounce of butter, pepper 
and salt, a small carrot and a piece of turnip, sprig of pars- 
ley, nearly a pound of mashed potatoes, yolks of two eggs ; 
put in a small frying-pan the butter ; when hot, cook the 
cutlets in this butter for five minutes, on each side ; cut the 
carrot and turnip into small pieces, then put them in boiling 
water and cook them for twenty minutes, then the potatoes ; 
put them in a saucepan, add pepper and salt, the yolks of two 
eggs ; put on the fire and stir until the eggs are dry, then 
put it aside until ready for use. Flour the board slightly ; 
cut a small quantity of potato and roll the cutlet in it ; then 
flour slightly a baking-pan ; then brush them with a little egg 
or milk ; then brown them in the oven, quicker the better ; 
then, after adding the brown sauce, the cutlets are ready. 
Make a pile of the vegetables in the middle, to embellish 
the dish. D. 

BROILED SHOULDER OF LAMB. 

Get a shoulder of lamb boned from the butcher ; press it 
for broiling ; place the gridiron over a clear fire, and rub 
the bars with butter to prevent the meat from adhering to 
them ; put the lamb on the gridiron, and turn it frequently ; 
when cooked, have a hot dish with a large lump of butter, 
pepper and salt ; when the butter is melted, put the lamb in 
the dish, and serve at once. Garnish with parsley. 



MEATS. 25 

BREADED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Have the cutlets cut from the fillet about three-fourths of 
an inch thick, and about as large as the palm of your hand ; 
grate some stale bread and rub through a cullender, and adding 
salt, pepper, sweet marjoram, grated rind of a lemon, a little 
powdered mace and grated nutmeg, spread this on a large flat 
dish ; beat up some eggs, dipping each cutlet into them, then 
into the prepared bread, seeing that a sufficient quantity ad- 
heres to each side of the meat ; have boiling some sweet lard, 
and a small quantity of butter added, in which fry your 
cutlets, turning them three times, but be careful they do not 
burn. Place in a hot and covered dish ; make a gravy by 
sifting flour into the fat in the pan, stirring until a rich brown, 
when add boiling water, to form the right consistency; add, 
lastly, a little chopped parsley and vinegar, and pour, boiling, 
over the cutlets. Serve at once. 



FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. 

Three or four pounds of the fillet of veal, a few slices of 
bacon, a bunch of savory herbs, two blades of mace, two bay 
leaves, five allspice, one head of celery, one carrot, one turnip, 
lardoons, pepper to taste, one pint of gravy or stock. 

Cut a thick handsome slice from a fillet of veal, trim it 
neatly round and lard it thickly with fat bacon ; cut the 
carrot, turnip and celery into slices, and put them into a 
stew-pan with a bunch of savory herbs, two blades of mace, 
five allspice and two bay-leaves, with some slices of bacon on 
top. Lay the fricandeau over the bacon with the larded side 
uppermost, dust a little salt over it, and pour around it a pint 



26 MEATS. 

of good gravy or broth. Place it over the fire and let it boil, 
then let it simmer very gently for two hours and a half or 
three hours over a slow fire, basting it frequently with the 
gravy. Take out the fricandeau when done ; skim off the 
fat, strain the gravy and boil it quickly to a strong glaze, 
cover the fricandeau with it, and serve it up very hot, upon a 
dish of green peas. 



ROLLED VEAL. 

Take a boned breast of veal, lay it on the dish, spread 
over it a dressing made of bread-crumbs, a small onion, sweet 
marjoram, pepper and salt, a lump of butter, and over that 
fifty oysters ; roll it up and tie around tightly, and put it in 
a pan and bake one hour. Make a gravy of some pieces of 
veal and stock. 



TO PREPARE A CALF'S HEAD. 

Have the butcher split the head and take out the eyes, 
remove the teeth and gums ; then lay it in a large pan of 
warm water to disgorge; then remove the brains and tongue; 
take the head, wash it well and put it in a pot with a knuckle 
of veal, and water enough to cover it ; let it boil slowly for 
four hours, skimming it well ; take out the head and veal, and 
dress it as you like, or bake it according to receipt. The 
brains you soak in cold water, with salt, for one hour ; sepa- 
rate the lobes of the brain with a knife before you soak them ; 
then cover with hot water and parboil them, and fry or stew 
them, as you like. The tongue is to be boiled, then skinned ; 
take oif the roots, and lay it on a dish; garnish with parsley. 
The liquor the head is boiled in save for soup. 



MEATS. 27 

BAKED CALF'S HEAD. 

Boil the head until you can pick all the bones out, and 
keep the water the head is boiled in ; take the pieces and lay 
them in a dish, having cut them small ; use some salt, pepper, 
a little parsley, a grating of nutmeg, a small piece of butter, 
and some dry bread-crumbs, about a teacupful ; moisten it all 
with some of the water the head was boiled in ; put in a 
baking-dish and let bake for a half-hour. Take the yolks of 
two eggs and make a sauce with the boiled liquor. Make 
soup of the rest of the liquor. 



TO ROAST A CALF'S LIVER. 

Wash thoroughly and wipe dry ; cut a long deep hole in 
the side ; stuff with crumbs, bacon and chopped onions, salt 
and pepper to taste, a piece of butter, and one egg. Sew or 
tie together the liver, lard it over, and bake in the oven, 
basting frequently. Serve with gravy and currant jelly. 



STEWED CALF'S LIVER. 

Boil the heart and haslet in enough cold water to cover 
them ; add three onions ; while they are boiling, prepare the 
calf's liver by cutting incisions into it, in which put strips of 
corned pork cut narrow — the more it is larded with pork the 
better will be the flavor. Put into the stew-pan a quarter- 
pound of butter; when melted and boiling hot, add a tea- 
spoonful of flour ; stir until a light-brown color, then place in 
the liver, turning it over and around until it is cooked on all 
sides. Lay a small bunch of summer savory, parsley, a bay- 



28 MEATS. 

leaf, salt, a few pepper-corns, a half-dozen allspice, five whole 
cloves, a squeeze of lemon in the pan, and when heart and 
haslet are sufficiently cooked, then pour the gravy over the 
liver and simmer slowly for an hour and a half, the pan being 
tightly covered ; then pour off the gravy, strain it, and add one 
tablespoonful of mushroom catsup or a wine-glass of wine ; 
add a tablespoonful of flour to thicken the gravy, and boil 
for five minutes. Put the liver in a dish and pour some of 
the gravy over it ; the remainder send to table in a sauce- 
boat. This is a delicious dish, if carefully prepared. 



TO ROAST A SUCKING PIG. 

Begin your preparations by making the stuffing. Have 
four good sized boiled and mashed potatoes ; while they are 
hot, stir in a lump of butter the size of a walnut ; boil three 
onions — mash them with the potatoes ; add pepper and salt, 
tablespoonful of finely rubbed sage. When well mixed, stuff 
the pig, after you have washed it well in cold water, and cut 
off the feet close to the joints, leaving some skin all round to 
fold over the ends. Take out the liver and heart, and reserve 
them, with the feet, to make gravy. Truss back the legs. 
Fill the body with the stuffing — it must be quite full — and 
then sew it up or tie it round with buttered twine ; rub the 
outside all over with lard — this prevents the blistering of the 
skin. Baste well while roasting, and just before it is done 
rub it over with a feather dipped in olive oil ; then drain the 
gravy from the pan — put it in a saucepan, skim off all the 
fat ; mix a large spoonful of flour with the liver. Cut up 
the heart and liver fine, add pepper and salt, and let it all 
simmer fifteen minutes ; add a teaspoonful of caramel. Serve 
up in a tureen with the pig. Apple-sauce is always eaten 
with pork. 



29 



GAME AND POULTRY. 



VENISON STEAKS. 

Place the gridiron over the fire, and rub the bars with 
butter, and place the venison on it for a few minutes; have 
ready a hot dish with butter, pepper and salt, and currant 
jelly melted in it; put the venison in it, turn it over so as to 
get the gravy all over it; serve with currant jelly. 

Or else have the venison steaks uncooked on the table, and 
a lighted chaffing-dish, and put the venison in and cook with 
currant jelly, pepper and salt, and butter. 



JUGGED HARE OR RABBIT. 

Skin a hare or rabbit and cut it in pieces ; dredge it with 
flour and fry a nice brown in butter, seasoning it with a little 
pepper, salt and cayenne. Make about a pint and a half of 
gravy, from beef; put the pieces of hare into ajar, add one 
onion stuck with four or five cloves ; cover the jar closely to 
keep in the steam ; put it in a deep stew-pan of cold water 
and let it boil four hours — if it is young three hours will be 
sufficient. When done take it out of the jar and shake it 
over the fire for a few minutes, adding a teaspoonful of mush- 
room catsup, two glasses of wine and a piece of butter rolled 
in flour, with some fried force meat balls. Serve with red 
currant jelly. 



So GAME AND POULTRY. 

SPRING CHICKENS. 

Split the young spring chickens down the back — as for 
broiling ; wash and dry them very carefully ; dredge them 
with flour, and put them in the oven ; when brown, dress 
them with melted butter, pepper and salt. 



ROAST DUCKS. 

Ducks should always hang for one day, and even longer, if 
the weather be sufficiently cold to allow it. Stuff one of them 
with sage and onion, pepper and salt ; season the inside of 
the other with pepper and salt; put them in the oven and 
baste them constantly until done. A short time before serving 
dredge over them a little flour and baste them with butter to 
make them brown. Serve them very hot, and pour round 
(not over them) a little good brown gravy. Serve some in a 
gravy-boat. Serve apple sauce. 



WILD DUCKS AND TEAL. 

You must be very particular in not roasting these birds too 
much — teal about twenty minutes, with a good fire ; baste 
them very frequently, have ready a little hot butter and juice 
of a lemon, cayenne pepper, a glass of port wine ; pour it 
all hot, the last minute, over your teal ; the remainder left of 
these birds the next day makes excellent hash, taking care of 
all the gravy that may remain, to stew with it. 

Wild Ducks. — These birds require clean plucking and 
washing, which may be done by pouring warm water through 



I 



GAME ANi) POULTRY. 31 

the bodies after they have been drawn. Half an hour with a 
brisk fire will suffice to roast them ; stuffing is not required. 
When they are sent to table, the breasts should be sliced, and 
a lemon be squeezed over them. Currant jelly must be served 
with them. 



TO TRUSS A QUAIL. 

A quail must be plucked, singed and drawn; then the 
wings cut off at the first pinion, leaving the feet, and a 
skewer passed through the pinions and the wings. Other 
fowl can in be trussed in the same way. 



TO COOK A QUAIL. 

Take six quail, nicely picked and cleaned ; truss them ; 
put a small piece of butter rolled in flour and a little pepper 
and salt inside of each bird, and put them in a stew-pan 
with a little water ; cover them closely, so that none of the 
steam escapes ; let them stew gently for an hour, then take 
them out and make a rich gravy of the liquid they were 
stewed in, and send them to table with bits of toast placed 
round the dish. 



S2 



MADE DISHES. 



FRENCH OMELETTE. 

One pint of milk, half-pint of bread-crumbs, three eggs, 
half-tablespoonful of flour, one small onion chopped very 
fine, some chopped parsley — season with pepper and salt ; 
beat the eggs light, and mix all the ingredients together ; 
have melted butter in a pan, hot, and pour the mixture in ; 
when brown, turn over double, and serve. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Put a small piece of butter in an earthen saucepan, and 
when it is melted turn the saucepan round, so that the butter 
will run on the sides ; then break the eggs in it and put it on 
the range, and don't stir them until the whites are set, then 
gently stir all together, add pepper and salt, and serve. 



MACCARONI, WITH CHEESE. 

Three ounces of egg maccaroni, three ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, a little salt, a grain of cayenne pepper, 
half-gill of cream, one egg, one ounce of butter. Put the 
maccaroni in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it ; 
put it on the fire and let it boil a quarter of an hour ; then 



MADE DISHES. 33 

pour the water from the maccaroni, and pour over it a half- 
pint of milk ; let it boil twenty minutes. Whisk the egg 
and cream up lightly, then mix two ounces of cheese with 
the egg and cream, and half-ounce of butter and seasoning ; 
pour this custard over the maccaroni ; then sprinkle the 
other ounce of grated cheese over it, and half-ounce of 
butter in small pieces, and some bread-crumbs ; put in the 
oven for ten minutes. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Two sweetbreads, boiled, one teacupful of boiled chicken 
hashed, one boiled onion, one teacupful of boiled bread and 
milk, quarter-pound of butter, salt and pepper. Chop chicken 
and sweetbreads very fine; mix in well the other ingredients ; 
shape into rolls, then dip in the yolk of an egg, then in 
cracker-dust; drop into boiling lard, and fry brown. 



RICE CROQUETTES. 

Half-pound of rice, two eggs, two ounces of sugar, one 
quart of milk, teaspoonful of vanilla, three tablespoonfuls of 
bread-crumbs. First boil the rice and milk twenty minutes, 
then add (when cold) the yolks of two eggs, then one ounce 
of sugar, and vanilla ; mix the remaining ounce of sugar with 
the bread-crumbs. Flour the board slightly, roll tablespoon- 
fuls of rice each inito a small cone, then beat up the whites of 
eggs, into which roll the cones, then in bread-crumbs; fry in 
lard two minutes. This makes six balls. d. 



34 MADE DISHES. 

RICE CROQUETTES FOR MEATS. 

Wash and scald a quarter-pound of rice; put it in a sauce- 
pan with a half-teaspoonful of salt, some very thinly pared 
lemon-peel, a tablespoonful of butter ; on this pour one pint 
of cold water, half-pint of milk, and stir it well for a moment 
only, then set it on a hot place to cook slowly. When the 
rice becomes quite soft remove it, and stir in the well-beaten 
yolks of four eggs ; do not allow this to cook, but keep it hot 
while stirring it ; then pour this on a tin sheet or flat sur- 
face, spread it out equally and let it cool ; then divide it in 
portions two inches long and one inch wide — roll these into 
scrolls or oblong balls ; dip each into bread-crumbs, and fry 
them a nice brown. Serve hot. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Take one pound and a half of potatoes, tablespoonful of 
cream, two eggs, half-ounce of butter, grain of cayenne pep- 
per, three tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. 
First put in a pan butter and cream ; stir over a fire until 
melted, then add seasoning and potatoes, after they have 
been passed through a sieve; drop in the yolks of two eggs — 
stir until the yolks are dried, then take off the fire ; flour the 
board ; take tablespoonful of the mixture and form in long 
squares about an inch thick ; put on a paper bread-crumbs, 
then cover the croquettes with the whites of eggs, and roll 
them in the crumbs; smooth over with a knife, then fry them 
in hot fat two minutes ; then take them out, put them on 
paper to drain, and serve. 



MADE DISHES. 35 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Mince the lean part of the veal very fine. Take two cupfuls 
of veal and teacupful of boiled bread and milk, with a small 
quantity of parsley and celery boiled in it, also a small piece 
of butter. Chop a very small piece of onion and a little 
mace and mix with the meat, and season with salt and pepper. 
Roll in the form of a sugar-loaf, and dip in cracker-dust and 
egg, and boil in lard like doughnuts. 



SWEETBREADS (French Style). 

Take two sweetbreads, put them into hot water, and let 
them boil ten minutes ; when cool, skin but do not break 
them ; season with salt and pepper, and dredge over a little 
flour, then fry them slowly in butter a light brown on both 
sides ; when done place them on a dish, and remove all the 
brown particles from the pan (retaining the butter) ; then 
pour in, while on the fire, one gill of boiling water, and 
dredge in one dessert-spoonful of flour and a little caramel, 
stirring it all the time ; then season with salt and pepper, to 
taste ; mix well, and just before removing it from the fire, stir 
in gradually two tablespoonfuls of Madeira wine. 



SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS. 

Lay the sweetbreads in cold water for a short time, then 
parboil them ; take them out of the water, and take ofi" all the 
skin, then put them in a saucepan and boil them tender; 
make a cream sauce, season with pepper and salt ; have some 
green peas, boiled, and seasoned ; put the sweetbreads on a 



36 MADE DISHES. 

hot dish, and the peas around them ; pour over the cream 
sauce. Serve at once. 



LARDED SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil three or four sweetbreads ; this should be done as 
soon as they are brought in, as few things spoil more rapidly. 
When half-boiled lay them in cold water ; prepare a force 
meat of grated bread, butter, and pepper and salt and nut- 
meg, lemon-peel, mixed with beaten yolk of egg; cut open 
the sweetbreads and stuif them with it, fastening them after- 
wards with a skewer, or tying them round with pack-thread ; 
have ready some strips of bacon-fat, and some slips of lemon- 
peel cut about the thickness of small straws ; lard the sweet- 
breads with them in alternate rows of bacon and lemon-peel, 
drawing them through with a larding-needle ; then put them 
in the oven to brown. Serve them with gravy flavored with 
a glass of Madeira, and enriched with beaten yolk of egg 
stirred in at the last. 



TRIPE. 

Wash thoroughly in cold water ; let it soak over night, or 
for several hours ; put it on to cook in hot water, and boil 
three or four hours, till perfectly tender ; cut in squares of 
three or four inches ; put vinegar over it, and let it lay over 
night, and then fry. 



FRIED TRIPE. 

Boil tripe until perfectly tender, then cut it in pieces about 
three inches square ; then dip them in cracker-dust and egg, 



MADE DISHES. 37 

and fry a nice brown in butter and lard mixed ; take out the 
tripe and strain the fat ; be sure it is not burned ; then put it 
back in the pan and add cream or good milk ; let it boil up, 
and season with pepper and salt. Put the tripe on the dish, 
and pour the gravy over it, and serve. 



TO RE-COOK COLD TURKEY. 

Cut up the remains of a turkey in small pieces; add to 
this a half-pint of oysters, cut in pieces. Strew the bottom 
of a deep dish with cracker-crumbs — cover with a layer of 
turkey and a layer of oysters, add a very little salt, cayenne 
pepper and mace. Repeat until the turkey and oysters are 
used up. Add a little liquor from the oysters, and set them 
in the oven for twenty minutes ; then add more oyster liquor, 
an egg beaten, a few lumps of butter, some cracker-crumbs, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Let it brown nicely. 



TURKEY SCALLOPED. 

TIME ONE HOUR. 

Pick the meat from cold turkey, chop it fine ; put a layer 
of bread-crumbs on the bottom of a buttered dish, moisten 
them with a little milk, then a layer of turkey, with some of 
the filling, and some butter, pepper and salt, then another 
layer of crumbs, and so on, until the dish is full ; add a small 
quantity of hot water to the cold gravy and pour it over the 
dish ; then take two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of milk, one of 
melted butter, salt, cracker-crumbs as much as will make it 
thick enough to spread on the top with a knife ; put bits of 
butter all over it ; cover with "a plate ; bake three-quarters of 



38 MADE DISHES. 

an hour. About ten minutes before serving, remove the plate 
and let the turkey brown. Use more turkey and very little 
bread. ■ 



BROILED BEEF DEVILLED. 

Cut slices of cold cooked beef about half an inch thick ; 
trim them to an even size ; spread them with melted butter, 
mixed thick with mustard and pepper and salt ; dip them in 
cracker or bread-crumbs, rolled and sifted; put them between 
the bars of a double gridiron which has been buttered, and 
just color them over the fire. Serve them with a little gravy 
under them. 



BEEF CAKES. 

Take the part of beef used for steaks, cut it into pieces, 
then beat it well in a marble mortar until it is very fine — 
take especial pains to free it from all bits of skin and fat — 
then add to it good beef suet, well chopped, in the proportion 
of a quarter of a pound of suet to each pound of meat ; sea- 
son to your taste with mace, cloves, nutmeg, pepper and salt, 
and also thyme, sweet marjoram and parsley chopped ; to 
these add one good sized onion finely minced ; blend the 
whole mass very thoroughly, and make into small cakes and 
fry them over a brisk fire. If the meat is fresh, and you 
make it in winter, this will keep good for a fortnight, if 
pressed closely down in a jar. 



CANNELURE OF BEEF. 

Chop half a pound of lean cooked beef fine ; rub smooth 
in a mortar quarter of a pound of raw fat bacon or ham fat ; 



ERRATUM 



MINCED VEAL. 



"Three-quarters of a pound of veal," should read "Three 
and a half pounds of veal." 



MADE DISHES. 39 

grate the yellow rind of one lemon ; mix all these together 
thoroughly, press them together in the form of a roll, wrap 
the roll in buttered paper, and bake it for twenty minutes in 
a moderate oven. When it is done remove the paper without 
breaking the roll, and serve it either on a bed of parsley or 
lettuce, or with half-pint of any brown sauce or meat gravy. 



MINCED VEAL. 

Take three quarters of a pound of veal, chop fine, add 
three well beaten eggs, one and a half tablespoonfuls of salt, 
one of black pepper, one grated nutmeg, four small crackers 
rolled fine, three tablespoonfuls of cream, piece of butter the 
size of an egg ; stir well together, and make in the form of a 
loaf. Bake it in the dripping-pan for two hours, basting it 
with gravy. 



PRESSED VEAL. 

Mince some cold boiled or cooked veal very fine ; add 
pepper and salt and sweet marjoram, and cracker-dust or 
mashed potatoes, and two eggs beaten ; mix all together, and 
roll into a form and bake, basting well. 



HASHED LIVER. 

Take two pounds of liver — boil it until tender ; then chop 
up (but not too fine) five hard boiled eggs, the yolks mashed 
smooth and the whites chopped up fine; put them in the 
liver, and boiling water, enough to make the gravy ; put it on 



40 MADE DISHES. 

the fire, and when it comes to a boil, rub a tablespoonful of 
flour in nearly a quarter-pound of butter, and stir into the 
liver. Season to taste, with salt, black and cayenne pepper, 
allspice and cloves to color it. It is improved by adding 
wine. It should be seasoned highly. 



MALINA PIE. 

Take cold mutton or veal, chop it very finely ; then to one 
pint of minced meat, stir in the yolks of four well-beaten 
eggs, the juice of one lemon, and the rind grated ; two small 
onions, very finely chopped, half of a nutmeg, two large 
spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, a very little cayenne, and 
salt to taste ; mix this well together, and cut up into very 
small pieces a half-quarter of a pound of butter and stir 
through it ; then line a dish with good paste, and put this in 
to bake until it is a nice brown. Serve with a nice gravy 
made of the bones of the cold meats. This is a very good 
dish. 



BRAIN CAKES. 

Calves' brains are a very delicate and nutritious article of 
food. They should be soaked in cold water for one hour, 
then boiled for five minutes in water with salt and vinegar ; 
they may be then sliced and fried or stewed in gravy. For 
brain cakes they should be beaten to a paste, and mixed with 
eggs to a stifi" batter ; this is to be seasoned highly, with a 
little cayenne pepper and black pepper, salt and powdered 
herbs — sweet marjoram and thyme — and then fried in plenty 
of lard, smoking hot. They must be taken up on a skimmer 



MADE DISHES. 41 

when brown, and laid on kitchen paper for a moment to free 
them from fat. Serve either plain or with a brown gravy. 
They can be fried on a greased griddle. 



CORN FRITTERS. 

Take twelve ears of corn, score down the middle; then 
scrape off all the corn, till nothing remains but the hulls ; 
put in a little salt, one cup of milk, and flour enough to 
make a batter, something thicker than for flannel cakes. 
Now separate the whites of the eggs, and beat them until they 
are very light ; put the yolks in first, stirring without beating ; 
then the whites. Drop the batter from a spoon into the pan 
of hot lard. When the fritters are brown on one side, turn 
them quickly for the other side to brown. Serve im- 
mediately. 



CORN OYSTERS. 

To one quart of grated corn add three eggs, three grated 
crackers ; beat well, and season with salt and pepper ; fry 
in butter and lard ; drop in the pan with a spoon. 



CORN PUDDING. 

One can of corn, or the corn off a dozen ears, one pint of milk 
and three eggs, tablespoonful of flour, pepper and salt to taste, 
a few pieces of butter placed on the top. Bake half an hour. 



42 MADE DISHES. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Soak one pint of picked beans, over night, in plenty of 
water ; then boil them until they are quite soft, but not 
broken. Put a half-pound of salt pork in a pudding-dish 
and put the beans around it ; cover closely ; set it in a warm 
oven, and bake for half a day. 



MACCARONI CHEESE. 

Boil the maccaroni over night in milk, so that it very tho- 
roughly swells, and lay it in rather a deep dish you intend to 
serve it in ; make a custard of milk and two eggs, well 
beaten, gradually stirring in the cheese, which should be 
half Parmesan and half Chedder, very dry ; add some pep- 
per. Pour the custard over the maccaroni ; bake in a quick 
oven, and serve hot. 



43 



VEGETABLES. 



LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Slice half-pound of cold potatoes ; put butter, about the 
size of an egg, into a saucepan ; when hot, throw in two 
ounces of onion, minced fine ; fry a light color ; add the 
potatoes, turning them until they are thoroughly heated and 
a bright color ; then mix in minced parsley. The potato 
slices should be merely moistened with butter. Serve hot. 



POTATO CHIPS. 

Peel and slice some potatoes very thin, and wash and drain 
them dry; have plenty of lard in the pan, and when boiling 
hot, put the potatoes in and fry a light brown; take them out 
and drain them on a wire sieve, and serve hot. Strain the 
fat, and keep it for another time. 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Take large firm tomatoes, cut out the stems ; make a dress- 
ing of bread-crumbs, some chopped onion, pepper and salt, a 
good sized lump of butter — mix well together — add sweet 
marjoram, and fill the tomatoes with the dressing ; put some 
butter in a pan, place them in it, and put them in the oven, 



44 VEGETABLES. 

and cook half an hour, or until they are soft, hut not hroken. 
Serve on a hot dish, with the gravy from the pan over them. 



STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Select fresh mushrooms. To test if they are good, drop a 
silver spoon in the saucepan while they are cooking ; if right, 
the spoon is untarnished — if not, it becomes blackened. Put 
them into a saucepan with salt and pepper, and a very little 
water ; let them simmer slowly ; when nearly done, add a 
good lump of butter and a small quantity of cream. Serve 
hot. 



TO BOIL CAULIFLOWERS. 

Select such cauliflowers as are compact and white; pick off 
the decayed leaves, and cut the stalk off flat at the bottom ; 
then put them, with the heads downwards, in strong salt and 
water for an hour, to remove all the insects. Drain them in 
a cullender, and put them into a saucepan with plenty of 
boiling water ; keep the pan uncovered, and boil them quickly 
until tender — about twenty minutes. Skim the water clean, 
and when done take them up with a slicer, and serve with a 
cream sauce — (a drawn butter made with cream, instead of 
water.) Don't put in the butter until you are ready to serve, 
for it will curdle. 



TO BOIL JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Wash the artichokes very clean ; peel and cut them round ; 
put them in a saucepan of cold water, with salt. They will 



VEGETABLES. 45 

take about twenty minutes from the time the water boils to 
become tender. When done, drain them and serve with white 
sauce or melted butter poured over them. 



EGG-PLANT. 

Slice the egg-plant an eighth of an inch in thickness, pare, 
and sprinkle salt over it an hour before cooking; press, so 
as to drain off all the water. Beat up the yolk of an egg, 
dip the slices first in the egg and then in cracker-dust ; have 
the lard very hot, and fry them a nice brown. 

Or, cut them very thin, pare and sprinkle salt over them, 
and press as above, and fry a nice brown in plenty of hot 
lard. Serve at once. 



BOILED HOMINY. 

Wash and soak the hominy over night. Early the next 
morning, put it on to cook in plenty of water, with a little 
salt. It absorbs, like rice, much water, and must be cooked 
with care, and be perfectly white and soft. When quite done, 
stir in some new milk and butter, and let it stew for ten 
minutes. Serve hot. 



46 



SALADS. 



LAWLER'S DRESSING. 

Half-tablespoonful of English mustard, quarter-teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one yolk of an egg, one teaspoonful of water, 
two gills or a quarter of a bottle of oil, quarter of a cruet of 
vinegar, one dessert-spoonful of cream ; sprinkle with red 
pepper, and stir in. In mixing, always stir in one direction 
and constantly. Pour the oil in very slowly, and mix in the 
order given ; the first four articles should be thoroughly 
incorporated before the oil is added. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

To two chickens, take ten eggs ; take the yolks of four 
eggs (raw), and beat one tablespoonful of oil in the yolks by 
degrees ; boil hard the remaining six eggs ; mix the yolks 
fine, and add to the raw eggs; add the juice of half a lemon, 
mustard, cayenne pepper, and salt, to suit the taste. Use 
about one bunch of celery to the meat of two chickens, cut 
up, and mix with the dressing. The hard whites of the eggs 
may be chopped fine and mixed in the salad. 



LOBSTER SALAD. 
Boil in salt and water for half an hour. Let it get cold, 
and pick off all the meat. Use the same dressing as for 
chicken salad, with vineo-ar according to taste. 



SALADS. 47 

POTATO SALAD. 

cut a dozen cold boiled potatoes in thin slices, and mix 
them thoroughly, with a little onion, chopped fine, a teaspoon- 
ful of salad oil, a half-gill of vinegar, and teaspoonful of 
parslej. 

COLE SLAUGH. 

Put into a saucepan one teacupful of vinegar, and let it 
come to a boil ; then add a teacupful of cream, with the yolks 
of two eggs beaten in ; let these boil also, and then pour it 
immediately over the cut cabbage, which must be seasoned 
with pepper and salt. 



1 



48 



BREAKFAST ^ TEA CAKES. 



BREAKFAST CAKES. 

One pint of milk, two pounds of flour, teaspoonful of sugar, 
some salt, large tablespoonful of butter, one of lard. Boil 
the milk, add the butter and lard ; when cool, set a sponge 
at night ; mix the sugar and salt in the flour. In the morn- 
ing, make a soft dough with the remainder of the flour ; 
make out small cakes by hand, set them to rise again, and 
bake in a moderately hot oven. 



GOOSONG BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

Set a sponge over night with a quart and a pint of flour, 
pint of milk, one cake of compressed yeast, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one of lard; put the butter and lard in the milk to 
boil; then, when it has boiled, take it off" the range and set it 
away to cool. Before you make the sponge, dissolve the 
yeast-cake in luke-warm water ; add a little salt and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. In the morning, make up into small cakes, 
and put them in a pan to rise ; then bake in a brisk oven for 
fifteen minutes. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One pint of milk, one cupful of yeast, butter the size of 
two eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 49 

and two quarts of flour. Let the milk come to a boil, with 
the butter in it. When tepid, set a batter in the morning ; 
at noon, roll out the thickness of an inch, cut them round, 
spread butter over them, turn them over half, and bake them 
about twenty minutes. 



GIGGLESWICK DROPPED SCONES. 

Take a half-pound of flour, half-ounce of sugar, pinch of 
salt, two teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, half-pint of 
milk. Mix together; grease the griddle with beef suet in a 
piece of light paper, then drop the scones on. When they 
are brown, turn them. 



MARYLAND BISCUIT. 

Take three pints of flour, some salt, three heaping table- 
spoonfuls of lard; rub the lard all fine in the flour, then pour 
in enough ice-water to make a stiff" dough. Put the dough on 
the pie-board and beat fully twenty minutes. Then make 
them out with your hands in little round cakes, about the size 
of a big walnut, and put them on the greased pans ; prick 
them all over the tops with a fork ; put them in a quick oven 
and bake twenty minutes. 



MINNESOTA BISCUIT. 

One large cupful of bran flour, one large cupful of wheat 
flour, one pint of milk, two well beaten eggs, salt. Mix 
together and bake in small cake shapes, in a quick oven. 
Indian meal can be used instead of bran flour. 



50 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

POTATO MUFFINS. 

One pound of grated potatoes, two pounds of flour, two 
ounces of lard, one pint of milk, half-teacupful of yeast ; 
mix together, and set them to rise; then roll out thin and 
bake. 



WAFFLES. 

Stir into a quart of flour sufiicient luke-warm milk to make 
a thick batter. The milk should be stirred in gradually, so 
as to have it free from lumps. Put in a tablespoonful of 
melted butter, two beaten eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
half-teacupful of yeast. When risen, fill your wafile-irons 
with the batter, and bake them on a bed of coals. When 
they have been on the fire two or three minutes, turn the 
waffle-iron over. Serve up with powdered white sugar and 
cinnamon, if liked. 



CATSKILL CORN BREAD. 

One quart of milk scalded and thickened with enough 
Indian meal to make a thin mush; add one teaspoonful of 
Royal Baking Powder, one tablespoonful of brown sugar and 
four eggs, well beaten ; add enough meal to make as thick as 
pound-cake ; add salt. Bake one hour. 



51 



SAUCES. 



THE ATTICA APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, core and quarter good baking apples — cider-apples 
are the best. Put them in a preserving-kettle and cover with 
water; when they begin to get tender, strew some white 
sugar over them and let them boil until done, but do not let 
them break. 



THE Y. M. MINT SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of chopped green mint, one table- 
spoonful of granulated sugar, and a quarter of a pint of 
vinegar. Pick and wash the green mint very clean, and chop 
it fine ; mix the sugar in a sauce-tureen ; put in the mint and 
let it stand. 



CAPER SAUCE. 

Take two large tablespoonfuls of capers and a little vine- 
gar ; stir them for some time into a half-pint of thick melted 
butter. This sauce is for boiled mutton. 



CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 

Melt together equal parts of currant jelly and butter — or 



52 SAUCES. 

any rich gravy ; season to taste with pepper and salt, and 
serve hot with cold mutton or venison. 



CELERY SAUCE. 

Wash a large bunch of celery, and pare it clean ; cut it in 
pieces, and boil it gently in a small quantity of water till it is 
quite tender ; add a little pepper and salt, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, rolled in flour, and a half-pint of cream. 
Boil all together. Celery sauce is eaten Avith boiled poultry. 



QUICK SPANISH SAUCE. 

Stir one tablespoonful of butter and one of dry flour over 
the fire, until they are a light brown in color ; then stir gra- 
dually into them a pint of boiling water ; season the sauce 
with a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a salt-spoonful of 
pepper; add to it a small onion and a turnip, peeled and 
sliced very thin, a carrot scraped and sliced thin, a bunch of 
parsley and sweet herbs. Simmer the sauce slowly for fifteen 
minutes, and then strain. 



BROWN SAUCE. 

Put in a saucepan one ounce of butter ; when it is very 
hot, stir into it one ounce of flour. After butter and flour 
are well mixed, put in half-pint of hot stock, then pepper and 
salt, one dessert-spoonful of mushroom catsup, one of Wor- 
cester Sauce. Let it boil two minutes, then add a few drops 
of caramel for browning. 



SAUCES. 53 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Beat up two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, the juice 
and grated rind of one lemon. Set it on the fire until it 
begins to boil ; then take it off, add one glass of wine, and 
serve. 



COLD BOSTON SAUCE. 

Stir together, as for a pound-cake, equal quantities of fresh 
butter and powdered white sugar ; when quite light and 
creamy, add some nutmeg and brandy to taste. Send it to 
table in a glass dish. 



WINE SAUCE. 

Have ready some rich thick melted or drawn butter, and 
the moment you take it from the fire, stir in two wine-glassfuls 
of wine, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and some nutmeg. 
Serve it with plum-pudding, or any sort of boiled pudding 
that is made of batter. 



ROYAL WINE SAUCE. 

Bring slowly to the boiling point half-pint of wine; then 
add the yolks of four raw eggs and one cupful of white 
sugar ; Avhip it, on the fire, until it is in a state of high froth 
and a little thick. 



54 SAUCES. 

LAKE GEORGE SAUCE. 

Take two cupfuls of powdered sugar, one cupful of butter, 
beaten to a cream. Put in a cupful or more of hot water, 
and let it come to a boil, stirring all the time ; flavor with 
brandy. 



CREAM SAUCE. 

Put two-thirds of a pint of cream to boil in a double 
boiler, to keep it from burning ; add some white sugar ; then 
pour it slowly on the beaten whites of two eggs ; add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. 



GERMAN SWEET SAUCE. 

One ounce of sugar, two eggs, one wine-glassful of sherry 
wine. First mix in a saucepan the yolks of the eggs and 
sugar ; then put in the wine, and put it on the cool part of 
the range, so as to prevent the egg from boiling ; then put it 
in another saucepan over water. 



VANILLA SAUCE. 

Half-pint of milk in a saucepan on the fire; when scalding 
hot, add the yolks of three eggs, and stir until as thick as 
boiled custard ; add, when taken from the fire and cooled, a 
tablespoonful of vanilla and the whites of two eggs, beaten 
stiff. 



SAUCES. 55 

THE POTOMAC SAUCE. 

Rub to a cream four large spoonfuls of sugar and two of 
butter. Stir it into a teacupful of hot water. Pour this in a 
clean saucepan and set it on the fire ; stir it steadily until it 
boils, when add either rose-water or lemon to flavor it. Then 
give it another quick boil, and grate nutmeg on it. 



56 



PASTRY. 



GOOD PLAIN PIE-CRUST. 

Sift into a pan one pound of the best flour ; cut into this 
a half-pound of hard lard ; then moisten it with one pint of 
ice-water ; mix it with a knife. Dust your pie-board well 
with flour, and turn out your paste ; roll out and cut up one- 
quarter pound of lard and add this in two rollings ; handle it 
as little as possible, and use a knife for mixing the paste; lay 
it on ice for one hour before baking. 



MINCE MEAT. 

Take four and a half pounds of beef, two and a half 
pounds of suet, three pounds of sugar, three pounds of cur- 
rants, three pounds of raisins, three-quarters of a pound of 
citron, quarter-pound of candied lemon-peel, half-ounce of 
cinnamon, quarter-ounce of cloves, quarter-ounce allspice, 
two grated nutmegs, a few bitter almonds, half-peck of 
apples, one orange, one quart of cider, one quart of wine, 
one quart of brandy. 



COTTAGE CHEESE CAKE. 

One pint of cheese, two eggs, sugar to taste ; beat sugar, 
cheese and one tablespoonful of butter together, with the 



PASTRY. 57 

hand, until light ; add half-pint of milk and the eggs when 
well beaten ; flavor Avith lemon ; add one tablespoonful of 
flour ; mix together, and bake in a good crust. 



COCOANUT PIE. 

Cut oiF the brown skin of the cocoanut and grate the rest, 
and simmer the grated cocoanut in a quart of milk for a 
quarter of an hour; then take it from the fire and mix it 
with four tablespoonfuls of white sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, a small cracker rolled fine, half a nutmeg; 
add, when cold, a wine-glassful of wine, five eggs beaten light. 
Turn the mixture into plates that have a lining of fine paste, 
and bake in a quick oven. 



CUSTARD PIE. 

Take any stale cake, grate it, and mix it as in making 
cheese cake, using cake instead of cheese. Line a plate with 
good crust, fill with the custard and bake. 



DURENTUM LEMON CUSTARD. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of water, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, two large lemons, six eggs beaten light. Mix the 
flour with the sugar, then add the water, then the grated rind 
and juice of the lemons. Beat the whites perfectly light ; 
add the yolks to the whites, then add them to the mixture 
and bake immediately in a crust. 



58 PASTRY. 

LONG BRANCH LEMON PIE. 

Four tablespoonfuls of sugar, four eggs, two-thirds of a cup 
of flour, nearly a quart of milk, two small lemons, a pinch of 
salt. Bake two under-crusts ; mix the yolks of eggs and 
sugar well together; bring the milk to the boiling point, 
then mix the flour with some cold milk quite smooth, and 
add it to the boiling milk ; stir it until it thickens, when 
remove from the fire ; stir in the yolks and sugar, and return 
it a minute to the fire to set the eggs ; again remove it and 
flavor with lemon-juice and the grated rind. When the crusts 
are baked pour the mixture over them, then spread the beaten 
whites, sweetened and flavored; place in the oven a few 
minutes, to brown. 



MOUNTAIN LAKE LEMON PIE. 

Grate the rinds of three lemons ; two cupfuls of sugar, quar- 
ter-pound of butter, one tablespoonful of cracker-dust, six 
eggs beaten separately. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; 
add one cupful of sweet milk, the cracker-dust, the rind of the 
lemon and the juice ; put the whites in last. Bake in a good 
crust. 



MERTON COLLEGE LEMON PIE. 

One lemon, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of water, one egg, 
one tablespoonful of cream, one tablespoonful of flour. Bake 
in a crust. This will make two pies. 



PASTRY. 59 

GORDALE LEMON PUDDING. 

One pound of sugar, half-pound of butter, five eggs, the 
rind and juice of two large lemons ; add nearly a tumblerful 
of milk. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, then add the 
milk, then the well beaten eggs, then the juice and rind of 
the lemons, and a wine-glassful of wine or brandj. Bake in a 
good crust. 



MINCE PIES 

(made from remnants of cold beef). 

A good disposition, in winter, of cold roast beef, is to make 
with it two or three mince pies, as by the following receipt : 

One cupful of chopped meat, (quarter of it fat,) two cup- 
fuls of apple, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of 
ground allspice, half-tablespoonful of cinnamon, half-table- 
spoonful of cloves, one cupful of sugar, half-cupful of raisins, 
half-cupful of currants, small piece of citron, and candied 
lemon, one small orange (grated rind and juice), one cupful of 
cider, half-cupful of wine and brandy, mixed, or more if you 
like. 



VIRGINIA PUMPKIN PIES. 

Take the seeds out of a good pumpkin, cut the rind care- 
fully away and then cut the pumpkin into thin and narrow 
bits. Stew over a moderate fire in a little water (just enough 
to keep the mass from burning), until soft. Turn off the water, 
if any remains, and let the pumpkin steam over a slow fire 
about ten minutes ; when sufiiciently cool, strain through a 
sieve. Sweeten the pumpkin with sugar and a little molasses. 



60 PASTRY. 

The sugar and eggs should be beaten together ; the flavoring 
requires ginger, the grated rind of a lemon, or nutmeg, and 
salt. To one quart of pumpkin add one quart of milk and 
four eggs. Heat the pumpkin again scalding hot before 
putting it upon the crust to bake ; otherwise the crust will be 
soaked. Bake in a very hot oven. 



SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Three large sweet potatoes, eight well beaten eggs, enough 
milk to make it quite thin. Mash the potatoes very smooth, 
then add the milk and eggs, and flavor with vanilla. Bake 
in a good under-crust. 



SCOTCH WHITE POTATO PIE. 

Three boiled potatoes, grated, a piece of butter size of an 
egg, two eggs, one gill of cream, a little nutmeg, tw^o table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of brandy. Beat the 
sugar and eggs together and mix with the potatoes, then add 
the rest, except the brandy, which must not be put in until 
ready to bake. Bake with a good crust. 



CALIFORNIA DOUGHNUTS. 

Take one pint of boiled milk, one cupful of butter, two 
cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of mashed potatoes, two eggs, 
one cupful of yeast, add a little flour. All of these ingre- 
dients mix at noon and allow to stand until bed-time; then 
mix enough flour to make a^oft dough. Next morning roll 
out for baking ; the dough should be as soft as can be handled. 



61 



PUDDINGS 



APPLE CUSTARD. 

Pare, quarter and core six tart apples ; set them, with six 
spoonfuls of water, in a pan on the range, and as they soften, 
put them in a pudding-dish and sprinkle sugar on ; and mix 
eight eggs, beaten with rolled brown sugar, with three pints 
of milk ; grate in some nutmeg, and turn the whole over the 
apples. Bake about twenty-five minutes. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Wash and boil three white potatoes, and grate them ; mix 
well with enough flour to make ten or twelve dumplings ; add 
water and salt. Roll out the dough, and put an apple in each 
piece of crust. Place them in nets, and then put them in hot 
water, and boil half an hour. 



BAG PUDDING. 

One quart of flour, one tincupful of milk, four eggs, a small 
teaspoonful of soda. Boil in a tin kettle one hour and a half. 

Sauce — one half-pint of milk, one egg, four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar; let it come to a boil; flavor with wine or lemon. 



62 PUDDINGS. 

LENOIR BATTER PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, pinch of salt, one pint of 
flour. Mix all well together, and bake half an hour. To be 
eaten with sauce. 



SUET BATTER PUDDING. 

Beat eight eggs very light, mix them in a pint of milk, 
pinch of salt; mix by degrees enough flour to make a pretty 
stiff" batter; then add a quarter-pound of beef suet, half- 
pound of seeded raisins, three teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking 
Powder. Grease a shape well, and flour it, then put the 
batter in and put it in a pot of boiling water; boil for three 
hours. To be eaten with vanilla sauce. 



BERRY PUDDING— Boiled or Steamed. 

Take two cupfuls of flour, one cupful of sour milk, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, quarter of a cupful 
of molasses, one pint of berries. Cook one hour. 



BOILED BREAD PUDDING. 

Take half-pound of stale bread-crumbs, half-pound of beef 
suet, chopped fine, one quart of milk, half-pound of seeded 
raisins, half-pound of currants, four eggs, teaspoonful of 
baking powder; add flour to make a stiff" batter ; put it in a 
greased mould and boil three hours. Serve with sauce. 



PUDDINGS. 63 

"THE ARCADIAN" BREAD PUDDING. 

Take light white bread, cut it in thin slices, put it in a 
pudding-mould and spread on it any kind of preserve, then 
slices of bread, and repeat until the mould is full. Pour 
over all a pint of warm milk in which four beaten eggs have 
been mixed ; cover the mould with a piece of linen, then 
place it in a saucepan containing a little boiling water. Let 
it boil twenty minutes. Serve with sauce. 



BROWN BETTY PUDDING. 

Put a layer of apples, chopped fine, in a baking-dish, 
sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar, a layer of bread-crumbs 
with butter, cinnamon and sugar, then another layer of apples, 
and repeat until the dish is filled. Bake it an hour to an hour 
and a half in a good oven. Make a sauce of one pint of milk, 
one egg, four tablespoonfuls of sugar; let it come to a boil; 
flavor with vanilla, lemon, nutmeg or wine, as you please. 



BOILED FRUIT PUDDING. 

Make a crust as for boiled dumplings ; line a bowl, that 
has a rim round it, with the paste. Then fill it with plums, 
or gooseberries, with plenty of sugar; put a crust over and 
trim oflf the edges and press the edges together. Then put a 
plate over the bowl, then a pudding-cloth over that ; tie it 
with strong twine; take up the ends of the cloth, and pin it 
on top, and put it in boiling water. Boil it two hours. 



64 PUDDINGS. 

ORCHARD CHERRY PUDDING. 

Make a batter of one pint of milk, three eggs, teaspoonful 
of baking powder, a pinch of salt, with flour enough to make 
a stiff batter. Have ready two quarts of sour cherries, 
seeded; mix them in the batter. Put the pudding in a 
floured bag or mould, and boil one hour and a half. To be 
eaten with strawberry-sauce, made of one quart of strawber- 
ries, mashed, half-cupful of butter, one and a half cupfuls of 
sugar; mix the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the berries 
and serve. 



COLD CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Take a quarter-pound of chocolate, one pint of milk, the 
yolks of four eggs, a teaspoonful of vanilla, one ounce of 
sugar, half-ounce of gelatine, and a half-gill of cold water ; 
grate the chocolate and put it in the milk to boil with the 
water ; melt the gelatine. When the chocolate and milk boil, 
draw them aside to cool a little, then put the eggs in a basin 
and pour the milk and chocolate over them ; then add the 
sugar and melted gelatine. Pour all this back into the sauce- 
pan, and stir all the ingredients over the fire until the eggs 
set. Then add the vanilla, which should be the last thing of 
all ; put it in a mould to cool. Serve with cream. 



COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Beat to a cream one cupful of good brown sugar, and two 
and a half large spoonfuls of good butter. When well 
creamed, stir in two well-whipped eggs, a little grated nut- 



PUDDINGS. 65 

meg, and a large spoonful of orange-flower water ; sift into a 
pan one pint of flour ; add two teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking 
Powder. Mix the flour and eggs and spice together, then 
add the milk; beat these well together; butter a baking-dish 
and pour in the pudding. Bake half an hour, and serve 
with wine sauce. 



DANDY PUDDING. 

Take six eggs, two quarts of milk ; separate the yolks, and 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour; make it like soft custard; 
beat the whites to a froth, with sugar to make it thick 
enough to drop on the custard ; put it in the pudding-dish, 
and brown it in the oven. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Take one pound of raisins, one pound and a quarter of 
flour, three-quarters of a pound of suet, one pound of cur- 
rants, half-pound of sugar, six eggs, half of a nutmeg, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, half-pint of milk, one ounce of 
candied lemon, half-ounce of citron, salt-spoonful of salt, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, six bitter almonds or a 
small teaspoonful of extract of almonds, one wine-glassful of 
brandy. Mix the flour and milk together, then add the eggs 
well beaten, then the fruit, (the raisins being stoned) ; beat 
all well, as much depends on the stirring. Add the spice 
and brandy; then grease and flour a tin mould, put the batter 
into it, and place the mould in a pot of boiling Avater ; don't 
let the Avater come to the top of the mould. Boil it six hours. 



66 PUDDINGS. 

In chopping suet, sprinkle flour over it while chopping, to 
prevent the pieces from adhering. 



FIG PUDDING. 



Take three-quarters of a pound of grated bread, half-pound 
of figs, six ounces of suet, teacupful of sugar, a teacupful of 
milk, and a little nutmeg, the figs and suet to be chopped 
very fine ; mix the bread and suet first, then the figs, sugar, 
and nutmeg, one egg, and lastly the milk. Boil in a mould 
four hours. Serve with sauce. 



GEORGETOWN CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Ten tablespoonfuls of grated bread, eight tablespoonfuls of 
chocolate, one quart of milk, sweetened, and all boiled together 
until smooth. Add to this the yolks of six eggs and the whites 
of two. Put in a pudding dish and bake until done (three- 
quarters of an hour or more). Turn out when cold, and ice 
with the remaining whites of eggs and three-quarters of a pound 
of powdered sugar, and one teaspoonful of cream tartar. 



INDIAN PUDDING. 

Scald two teacupfuls of corn meal with three pints of milk, 
till as thick as gruel, and when cool, add some ginger, cinna- 
mon, nutmeg, salt, and sugar to suit the taste ; add some beef 
suet, chopped fine, or pieces of butter, some stoned raisins, 
or fine cut apples. Butter a deep dish and bake one hour. 



PUDDINGS. 67 

LINCOLN PUDDING. 

Take one pound of lady-fingers, four eggs, split the lady- 
fingers open and lay jelly over them, as many as will cover 
a large dinner-plate; lay them across each other, and then 
whip the whites of the eggs and lay on the top ; stand the 
plate nearly upright before a clear fire to brown. Take the 
yolks and make a sauce for it. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

Grate three sponge biscuits in enough milk to make a paste, 
beat eight eggs and stir in with the juice of one lemon and 
half the peel grated. Put in a teacupful of orange juice 
and one of sugar, with half a cupful of melted butter in the 
mixture — stir it well, put it in a dish with puff-paste around 
it, and bake slowly one hour. 



ORANGE CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Slice thin six oranges and put in a pudding-dish, throwing 
over them three-quarters of a cupful of sugar. Make a soft 
custard of a pint of milk, three eggs, omitting the whites, 
and one-half a cupful of sugar, then beat the whites of the 
eggs very light, adding a little powdered sugar, put them over 
the top and brown. This can be baked in a good crust. 



QUEEN PUDDING. 

Three eggs, pint of milk, half-pint of bread-crumbs, half 
lemon rind, grated, two teacupfuls of white sugar. Beat 



68 PUDDINGS. 

the whites separately, bake the pudding ; then let it get cold, 
put on fruit of any kind. Then put the beaten whites of eggs 
on top. 

"TALLYHO" RICE PUDDING. 

Take one teacupful of boiled rice, one pint of milk, the 
yolks of five eggs, and the rind of one lemon, grated. Mix 
together and bake it ; then beat the whites, with one pound of 
sugar, powdered, and spread over the top, when the pudding 
is baked. Then put it in the oven to brown it. 



PLAIN RICE PUDDING. 

To two quarts of milk, put a small teacupful of washed rice, 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, teaspoonful of extract of 
almond, a small piece of butter, some cinnamon or nutmeg. 
Bake until the rice is soft. 



ROLLY POLLY. 

Make a crust of one pound of flour, a large tablespoonful 
of lard, enough ice-water to make a dough ; roll out in a sheet, 
and spread preserves on and roll up ; press the ends well 
together, so that the juice won't run out; then roll up in a 
pudding cloth carefully tie or pin it, and put this in a pot of 
boiling water, and boil one hour. Serve with or without sauce. 



SNOW PUDDING. 

Put some water on some gelatine and let it stand ; then take 
the whites of eggs and beat light ; then add them to the gala- 



PUDDINGS. 69 

tine; beat well; then put it in a form. Eat with a sauce of 
soft custard, flavored with lemon. 



ST. AUGUSTINE ORANGE PUDDING. 

Make a soft custard with one pint of milk, the yolks of 
two eggs, two t'ablespoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
corn-starch ; flavor with the grated rind of two oranges. 
Line a pudding-dish with a good crust, slice two oranges, put 
them on the crust, then turn the custard over the oranges and 
bake ten or fifteen minutes ; beat the whites of the two eggs 
and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, spread it over the top 
when the pudding is baked ; put it again in the oven to brown 
slightly. To be eaten with any kind of sauce. Any kind of 
fruit may be used. 



SUET PUDDING. 

Take half-pound of suet, chopped fine, half-pound of sugar, 
half-pound of bread, the rind of two lemons, the yolks of 
four eggs, white of one ; butter the basin, lay a few raisins at 
the bottom ; put the mixture in, put a paper over the top, and 
steam three hours. 



FRUIT TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak four tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a quart of water for 
an hour ; pare and slice, or quarter some baking apples ; put 
them in a baking-dish with three tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
pour the tapioca over the apples and bake until it is clear and 
the apples soft. When cold, serve with cream. 



70 PUDDINGS. 

VIENNESE PUDDING. 

Five ounces bread-crumbs, one ounce lump-sugar, three 
ounces soft sugar, three ounces Sultana raisins, two ounces of 
candied peel, one glass of sherry, half-pint of milk, yolks of 
four eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Put the lump-sugar in 
a small dry saucepan ; when it melts and browns, add to it the 
milk, and stir well until the milk becomes brown ; cut the 
bread in small square pieces, and put them in a basin ; rub the 
raisins in a dry towel, then add them to the bread ; add also 
the peel (cut in very small pieces), and the soft sugar ; pour 
over all these dry ingredients a glass of sherry ; put in a 
separate basin the yolks of the four eggs, mix them slightly, 
and pour over them, through a strainer, the colored milk ; 
mix all the ingredients together, and add last the vanilla. 
Grease well a mould, and put the mixture in, twist over the 
top a piece of paper, and steam an hour and a half. 

D. 



VERMICELLI PUDDING. 

Wash quarter-pound of vermicelli, boil it a quarter of an 
hour in a pint of milk with a piece of cinnamon and lemon- 
peel ; when done take oflF the fire, and when nearly cold take 
out the cinnamon and peel. Sweeten to taste, and add the 
yolks of six eggs, and the whites of two ; mix and bake in a 
buttered dish half an hour. Or it may be boiled for one and 
a half hours, and served with sauce. 



71 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 



CREAM FOR FILLING CAKES. 

Half-cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, two eggs. Boil 
one pint of new milk; beat the flour, eggs and sugar together, 
and stir into the milk while boiling, until sufiiciently scalded. 
Flavor with extract of vanilla or lemon. Boil the milk in a 
farina boiler. 



LEMON CONSERVE. 

Take six eggs, quarter-pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar, the juice and rind of three lemons. Beat the eggs 
light and add the lemons ; put them in a pan with the sugar 
on the range, and stir in the butter ; keep stirring it all the 
time, about ten minutes. 



MACAROON CUSTARD, 



TIME — HALF-HOUR. 



They should be made in custard-cups. Put a macaroon in 
the bottom of each cup, and pour on it a tablespoonful of 
wine; mix together a pint of cream and a pint of milk, and 
boil them with a stick of cinnamon, broken up, or a teaspoon- 
ful of extract of almonds. Then strain the milk, stir in a 
quarter-pound of white sugar and set it away to cool; beat 



72 DISHES FOR DESSERT, 

light eight eggs (omitting the whites of four), and stir them 
into the cream and milk when quite cold ; fill the cups with 
the mixture, leaving the macaroons in the cups, and set them 
in a baking-pan half full of boiling water, and bake the 
custards ten minutes. When cold, heap the beaten whites of 
eggs and powdered sugar on the top of each. 



ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

Pare and slice a half-dozen sweet oranges, sugar them well, 
and let them stand until ready for use. Make a rich custard 
of the yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of corn-starch, 
one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with sufficient powdered 
sugar to sweeten. Lay sponge-cake or lady-fingers in a glass 
dish, then spread the oranges on them, then the custard, and 
lastly the whites of the eggs. 



P A N C AK E S . 

One half-pound of flour, one ounce of sugar, two eggs, 
one-half of a lemon, one-half pint of milk, pinch of salt. 
Put the flour in a bowl, add yolks of eggs, mix and add one 
half-pint of milk by degrees ; beat well together ; beat the 
whites of eggs very stifi"; add a little salt, and then add the 
whites to the mixture. Melt a little butter in an omelette- 
pan, drop in half a teacupful of the mixture. When done, turn 
out on a plate, sprinkle sugar and juice of lemon, and roll up. 

D. 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 73 

POP-OVERS. 

Two cupfuls of milk, two cupfuls of flour, two eggs, and 
an even teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs separately — add 
the whites last — and beat all well together. They may be 
baked in roll-pans, or deep " Gem " pans, which should be 
heated and greased before the batter is put in ; they should 
be half filled. Or they may be baked in teacups, of which 
eight will be required for the quantity of batter ; then bake 
immediately. 



RICE MERINGUES. 

One teacupful of rice, boiled. When cold, add one quart 
of milk, the yolks of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a little nutmeg ; pour in a dish and bake half an hour. When 
partly baked, stir a few large raisins through it. When cold, 
beat the whites with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and spread 
over the top ; put again in the oven to brown. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

Separate the whites of six eggs very carefully from the 
yolks, and put the yolks on one side ; whisk the whites to a 
stiiF froth. Take six tablespoonfuls of jelly and eight table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat them in the eggs 
gradually ; when it is stiff, pile it up in a china or glass bowl, 
on some cream, or on a custard made of the yolks of the 
eggs. 



74 DISHES FOE DESSERT. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One box and one ounce of Cooper's Gelatine, three pints 
of milk, six eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Put 
the gelatine in with the milk, and let it soak while the yolks 
and sugar are being beaten. Put the yolks and sugar in with 
the milk and gelatine ; place on the fire and let it simmer, 
(not boil,) until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. After 
beating the whites very stiff, pour the above on the whites, 
beating very hard ; then add the juice and rinds of three 
lemons, or flavor with vanilla. Pour into a mould, and set it 
near ice, to get cold. 



CHESTNUT HILL STRAWBERRY CAKE. 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls of Royal Baking Powder, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one pint of milk. Sift the flour, salt and powder together, 
and rub in the butter, cold ; add the milk, and mix into a 
smooth dough just soft enough to handle ; divide in half and 
roll out to the size of breakfast plates; lay on a greased 
baking-tin, and bake in hot oven twenty minutes ; then en- 
deavor, if possible, to separate the cake without cutting, as 
cutting makes them heavy. Have ready two quarts of berries, 
use half of them to cover the bottom halves of the cake ; 
sprinkle plentifully with sugar ; lay on the top the other 
halves with the crust downwards, use the rest of the fruit 
over them, and sugar plentifully. 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 75 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Make good pie-crust (not biscuit-crust) enough for three 
layers, rolled a little thicker than for pies, and bake in jelly- 
cake pans ; prepare two quarts of berries, and stir in sugar 
to taste, about half an hour before the crust is baked ; butter 
the crust while hot, spread the berries between the layers, and 
serve immediately. No sauce is needed, as the juice of the 
fruit is sufficient. 



STRAWBERRY SPONGE-CAKE. 

The yolks of four eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, teaspoonful of Royal Baking 
Powder, flour enough to make a batter softer than pound-cake 
batter ; flavor with lemon. Bake in two shallow pans ; when 
done, spread the berries on one, then the beaten whites of the 
four eggs, beaten light with powdered sugar. Place the other 
cake over this, then more berries and the whites of eggs on 
top ; place in the oven to brown, or not, as you like. 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of tapioca, one and a half pints of 
milk, four eggs. Boil the milk and tapioca, then beat the 
yolks of the eggs in ; flavor with vanilla, and beat the whites, 
put them on the top, and put in the oven a few minutes to 
brown. 



VELVET CREAM. 

Put three-quarters of a box of Cox's Gelatine in a bowl, 
and pour over it a cup and a half of wine. Add the rind and 



76 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

juice of one lemon, and let it stand for an hour. Then add 
three-quarters of a pound of white sugar. Put it over the 
fire and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Strain, and when 
cool, pour in a quart of cream, beating hard while pouring 
in ; when about as thick as soft custard pour it into a mould, 
and set it away to get cold. 



BISQUE ICE-CREAM. 

Take one quart and one pint of cream, one pint of milk, 
one quarter of a pound of macaroons, crisped in the oven and 
then rolled, two teacupfuls of sugar, and half-teacupful of 
wine. Mix together and freeze. 



PEACH ICE-CREAM. 

Quarter-peck of ripe peaches, three pints of milk and 
cream mixed, twenty tablespoonfuls of sugar ; mix all toge- 
ther and freeze as ice-cream. 



ORANGE WATER-ICE. 

Two to four oranges, according to size, to each quart of 
water one pound of sugar ; grate the rind of one orange and 
one lemon, and freeze. 

Lemon Water-Ice. 

The juice of four lemons, the rind of one, one quart of 
cold water, one pound of sugar. 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 77 



Strawberry Ice. 

One quart of strawberries to two quarts of water, and two 
pounds of sugar. 

Pine Apple. 

One pine-apple to two quarts of water, one pound of sugar 
to each quart of water. 

Roman Punch, 

The same as Orange Water-Ice, and add good brandy or 
Jamaica rum. 



FROZEN CUSTARD. 

Three pints of cream, one quart of milk, eight eggs, 
eighteen tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, one tablespoonful of 
extract of vanilla. Put the milk and cream on the fire, and 
when it boils add the eggs well beaten and mixed with the 
sugar. Let all boil about five minutes ; add the vanilla after 
you take the custard from the fire. This will make sufiicient 
for twelve persons. Freeze as ice-cream. 



FROZEN PEACHES. 

One quart of cream, half-pound of sugar, quarter-peck of 
good peaches, or two cans of peaches. Mash all as fine as 
possible, and freeze as ice-cream. 



78 



PLAIN SVy^EET CAKES. 



ALBANY CAKES. 

Take one pound of butter (best to have it a little softened, 
not melted), two pounds of brown sugar, six eggs, thirty drops 
of oil of lemon, one teaspoonful of soda, or two teaspoonfuls 
of Royal Baking Powder, three pounds of flour. Mix some 
sugar with the flour to roll out with, cut with a cutter and bake. 



COCOANUT SPONGE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of 
milk, three eggs, butter the size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one cocoanut, grated. Bake in jelly cake 
pans. This makes six cakes ; put the icing on one cake, then 
sprinkle the cocoanut on, then another cake, and so on until 
you have three layers. The six will make two cakes when 
done. The icing is made of the whites of three eggs and 
two cupfuls of powdered sugar. 



COMPOSITION CAKE. 

One and three-quarters of a pound of flour, half-pound of 
butter, one and a quarter pounds of sugar, four eggs, one 
nutmeg, one teacupful of milk, three-quarters of a pound of 
raisins, three-quarters of a pound of currants, two teaspoonfuls 



PLAIN SWEET CAKES. 79 

of baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar very light, 
add by degrees the milk and quarter of the flour ; beat the 
eggs until thick ; mix the baking powder in the flour and add 
it to the batter ; beat well and add spice and the fruit. 



CRULLERS. 

Take one pint of milk, half-pound of white sugar, quarter- 
pound of butter, beaten to a cream ; add three eggs, half- 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, half of a nutmeg, two pounds of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, put in after all is 
mixed. Roll out and cut in small cakes; fry in plenty of 
sweet lard. 



FRANKLIN BUNS. 

Six ounces of butter, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of flour, one of cream, three eggs, one wine- 
glassful of rose water, one wineglassful of wine, the grating 
of one nutmeg, teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat the 
butter and sugar until lieht, stir in the cream gradually with 
half the flour, then whisk the eggs until thick, and add them with 
the remaining flour, half at a time ; beat well. Then add the 
other engredients ; after beating all well together, butter a 
square pan, put in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven. 
When done, sift white sugar and cut in squares. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
flour, twelve eggs, two tablespoonfuls of mace, one table- 



80 ~ PLAIN SWEET CAKES, 

spoonful of cinnamon, four nutmegs, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
two pounds of currants, two pounds of raisins, one pound of 
citron, one tumblerful of brandy, put in last. Bake six hours. 



HARD GINGERBREAD. 

Take two pounds of flour, quarter pound of lard, quarter 
pound of butter, quarter pound of sugar, four tablespoonfuls 
of ginger, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one of cloves and 
allspice mixed, one teaspoonful of soda; rub the shortening 
in the flour, then add the spices and sugar ; dissolve the soda 
in a little milk and add molasses enough to make a dough. 
Let it stand two hours in a cool place, then roll out very thin 
and bake. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Take one cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, half- 
cupful of butter and lard mixed, one cupful of sour milk, 
two eggs, three cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of soda, 
two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one and a half of cloves, a 
little grated nutmeg. Bake in square tins fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 



SOUTHERN SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Three teacupfuls of flour, one of butter, two of molasses, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, and half a nutmeg, teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, and three eggs, beat them all up together till they 
are light ; dissolve half a teaspoonful of baking soda in a little 
hot water, while you stir about three-quarters of a cupful of 



PLAIN SWEET CAKES. 81 

hot water into the cake; when it is well stirred put in the 
soda and mix it in well. Pour into well greased baking-tins 
and put in the oven ; watch carefully, as it is apt to burn. 



JINGO GINGER-NUTS. 

One quart of molasses, one pound of sugar, half-pound of 
butter, half-pound of lard, quarter-pound of ginger, one 
tablespoonful of allspice and cloves mixed, two tablespoonfuls 
of cinnamon, spoonful of soda, and as much flour as will roll 
them out not too stiff. 



SHINY BACKS. 



One quart of molasses, one cupful of lard, two eggs, two 
cupfuls of sugar, half pint of sour milk, one large table- 
spoonful of saleratus, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, and cinna- 
mon if you like ; use as little flour as possible ; roll out, cut 
into cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 



LADY CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three of flour, 
one of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of almond flavoring, and the whites of eight eggs. 
Bake in a square pan. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Black Cake. — One cupful of brown sugar, half-cupful of 
molasses, half-cupful of butter, half-cupful of buttermilk, two 
cupfuls of flour, yolks of four eggs, one teaspoonful of Royal 



82 PLAIN SWEET CAKES. 

Baking Powder, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, cloves, allspice 
and nutmeg mixed. 

White Cake. — The whites of four eggs, half-cupful of 
butter, half-cupful of buttermilk, two cupfuLs of flour, two of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Put a layer of white, then a layer of black cake, alternately, 
and bake. 



MARY'S CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of flour, three eggs, one cupful of milk, 
quarter-pound of butter, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, rubbed dry in the flour ; 
flavor with extract of almond. Beat sugar and butter to a 
cream, then add the eggs, then flour, then milk ; put the mix- 
ture in buttered cake-pan and bake in a moderate oven. 
Make an icing of the whites of two well beaten eggs, enough 
powdered sugar to stiffen it. Spread on the cake while hot. 



ORANGE CAKE. 

Grate the rind of half an orange, half-cupful of butter, 
one cupful of sugar, two eggs, one teacupful of milk, one tin- 
cupful of flour, teaspoonful and a half of baking powder, sift 
with the flour, and mix all together ; bake in a long pan in a 
quick oven. Make an icing of the white of one egg, one and 
a half teacupfuls of pulverized sugar, and the juice of half an 
orange. 

POUND CAKE. 

Sift one pound of the finest flour ; beat to a cream one 
pound of butter and one pound of white sugar ; when they are 



PLAIN SWEET CAKES. 83 

perfectly light, beat ten eggs light, and add by degrees, into 
the mixture, alternately with the flour ; then add one tea- 
spoonful of extract of lemon, one small glassful of wine, and 
one of brandy. Beat all well together, and put it in a deep 
tin pan, with upright or straight sides. Bake in a moderate 
oven from two to three hours. Ice it. 



KALOOLA CAKE. 

Half pound of sugar, one lemon, quarter-pound of butter, 
one pound of flour, two teacupfuls of milk, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Mix well and bake in a quick oven, or bake 
it in pie-plates, and fill it with preserves. This makes a very 
good pie for dyspeptics. 



SNOWFLAKE CAKE. 

Take a half-cupful of butter, three eggs, two cupfuls of 
sugar, four of flour, one of milk, tAVO teaspoonfuls of Royal 
Baking Powder. Stir butter and sugar together, add the 
beaten yolks and half the flour, with the baking powder in it; 
pour in the milk, beat the whites and mix in ; then stir in the 
rest of the flour. Bake in jelly-cake tins. Grate two cocoa- 
nuts, add to them one cup of sugar and the beaten whites of 
two eggs ; spread between the cakes, and heap the cocoanut 
on top. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, half pound of flour, two eggs, two 
lemons ; mix the sugar and yolks together, then add the grated 



84 PLAIN SWEET CAKES. 

rind and juice of the lemons, the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff; add the flour very slowly; butter a Turk's turban and 
bake. 



WEST END SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs beaten light, then add one cupful of sugar, and one 
of sifted flour ; one lemon to flavor. 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat three eggs two minutes, add one and a half cupfuls of 
white sugar, and beat five minutes ; then one cupful of flour, 
and beat one minute ; add half-cupful of cold water ; flavor 
with lemon or vanilla ; add one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a little pinch of salt. Bake in jelly-cake pans — make 
two layers or cakes — one grated cocoanut. 

Cream fok Filling. — The yolks of tAvo eggs, one cupful 
of sugar, half-teacupful of corn-starch, half-pint of milk, one 
teaspoonful of lemon ; make into a custard ; when nearly cold 
spread on the cake, which must be quite cold ; sprinkle some 
grated cocoanut on the cream. For the top layer make an 
icing of the whites of two eggs and a half pound of sugar, 
powdered, and spread on the top and sprinkle cocoanut over 
all. 



WALNUT CAKE. 

One cupful of milk, three-quarters of a cupful of butter, 
two cupfuls of granulated sugar, three cupfuls of flour, three 
eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, not quite a cupful 



PLAIN SWEET CAKES. 85 

of English Walnuts, broken up. Bake in two square pans 
or tins. Frost both cakes with icing ; put one on top of the 
other; divide the icing into small squares, laying half a nut 
in each square. For icing, use whites of two eggs and one 
half-pound of pulverized sugar. One pound of walnuts is 
required for this cake. 



WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, beaten to a 
cream ; then add one cupful of cream, five eggs, four cupfuls 
of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in jelly- 
cake pans, with cream between. 



WHITE CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of sifted flour, one and a half cupfuls of 
sugar, one egg, one teacupful of sweet milk, two tablespooafuls 
of butter, teaspoonful of baking poAvder, and one teaspoonful 
of vanilla, almond, or lemon essence. Beat the butter and 
sugar to a cream ; mix the baking powder in the flour, add 
the milk with the eggs, well beaten, to the butter and sugar, 
and the essence ; mix with this, very slowly, the flour, and 
when well incorporated, bake in a quick oven. 



86 



FANCY CAKES. 



ANGELS' FOOD. 

Take two and a half gills of flour, three and three-quarters 
gills of sugar, whites of eleven eggs, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Sift the flour before you measure it ; after 
measuring it, sift four times ; then put one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar in the flour, and sift again. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, then stir in the sugar, then the 
flour, and then the flavor. Bake in a pan, not greased, forty 
minutes. When done, turn the pan upside down until per- 
fectly cold. Ice it all over. 



CHOCOLATE JUMBLES. 

Take one pound of sugar, lialf-pound of chocolate, grated, 
whites of eight eggs or four whole eggs, well beaten, six 
ounces of flour, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half tea- 
spoonful of cloves. Line the pans with white paper, buttered, 
and drop the mixture on with a teaspoon. Some think it an 
improvement to add a pint of broken nuts and mix in it. 



COCOANUT BALLS. 

Two grated cocoanuts, half-pound of sugar, the whites of 
three eggs. Mix all together; make in balls, and bake a 
few minutes in a quick oven. 



FANCY CAKES, 87 

COCOANUT DROP-CAKE. 

One-half pound of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, four of 
flour, one cocoanut, four eggs, one heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of lemon ; mix all together, 
^nd drop on tins and bake in a quick oven. Take care they 
don't burn. 



PENNYGHENT JUMBLES. 

Rub into one pound and a half of flour one pound of 
butter ; beat five eggs light, then lightly put them in with 
your hand, along with one pound of sugar. Let them stand 
an hour or two to stiffen ; roll and make them up with sugar 
and flour. Bake in a slow oven. 



NO NAME CAKES. 

One and a half cupfuls of sifted sugar, half cupful of 
cream, six eggs; two pinches of salt, piece of butter the size 
of a Avalnut ; add flour enough to roll out, cut any shape to 
suit yourself; roll them very thin, and cook in lard. 



NUT KISSES. 

One pint of walnuts, whites of two eggs, one pound of 
pulverized sugar. Beat the whites stiff", then beat in the 
sugar, then stir in slowly the walnuts ; line the pans with 
paper, drop in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. 



FANCY CAKES. 



ICING 



Half a teacupful of water, three teacupfuls of sugar, and 
the whites of three eggs. Boil the sugar and water until 
quite thick, pour it on the whites of the eggs, previously 
beaten light, and beat all together until cool. 



BOILED ICING. 

Ingredients: — One pound of sugar and the whites of three - 
eggs. 

First boil the sugar Avith a little water; when it is ready to 
candy, or will spin in threads when dropping from the end of 
a spoon, take it off the fire, and while it is boiling hot add 
the whites of three eggs, well beaten, stirring them in as fast 
as possible. Flavor with lemon or vanilla, and it is ready for 
use. Spread it over the cake as soon as taken from the oven. 
The icing made with the white of one egg is quite sufficient 
to frost an ordinary sized cake. 



89 



PRESERVES, 
JELLIES, BEVERAGES, CANDIES, ETC. 

APPLES PRESERVED LIKE GINGER. 

Peel and cut in quarters six pounds of apples, six pounds of 
sugar, one-half pound of raw ginger. Pack the apples in a 
jar, a layer of apples, then sugar and ginger, and so on until 
all are put in. Next day bruise one ounce of ginger and 
infuse it in a half-pint of boiling water, closely covered. The 
day following put the apples, ginger, sugar, and the water from 
the bruished ginger, in a kettle and boil one hour, or until the 
apples look clear, and syrup rich. Add some lemon peel cut 
very thin just before the apples are done. 



TO PRESERVE GREEN GAGES. 

t 

Choose the finest green gages, stick them with a needle all 

over ; take out the seeds and weigh and place on dishes the hollow 
side up ; have ready an equal weight of granulated sugar, 
and strew it over them. When the fruit has lain twelve hours 
put it in a preserving kettle, and let it simmer until the pieces 
are quite clear, being careful to take oflf the skum as it rises. 
Large blue plums may be preserved in the same way. 



90 PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 

PRESERVED QUINCES. 

No. 1. — Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to one 
pound of quinces. Pare, core, and quarter the quinces ; boil 
them in just enough water to cover them ; when tender take 
them out very carefully, and put them on a dish ; then make 
a syrup of one pint of the water the quinces were boiled in 
to two pounds of the sugar ; when it is clear and boiling hot, 
add the quinces, and boil until you can run a broom straw 
easily through them ; then put them in glass jars, and seal up 
with paper and the white of egg. 

No. 2. — To two pounds of fruit, put a half-pound of sugar, 
and four teacupfuls of water, and cook until they turn red. 

Jelly. — The parings and cores boil up and strain through 
a jelly bag, and allow one pound of sugar to one pint of juice, 
and boil until it jellies. 



TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES WHOLE. 

Choose the largest scarlet strawberries, not too ripe. Eor 
every pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a pound of white 
sugar, pulverized ; spread the fruit on large dishes, and sprinkle 
over it half the sugar ; shake the dish gently, so that the 
sugar may come in contact with the under side of the fruit. 
On the following day make a thin syrup with the remaining 
half of the sugar, and pour the juice from the berries on the 
sugar, and in this syrup simmer the strawberries until suffi- 
ciently jellied. When done place them in glass jars or tumb- 
lers ; when cold, cover with brandied paper, and paste paper 
over each, with the white of egg. 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 91 

PRESERVED TOMATOES. 

Select the small yellow tomatoes, take a few at a time, scald 
them just enough to loosen the skins, peel them and allow one 
pound of granulated sugar to each pound of fruit ; prepare a 
syrup, and then put the tomatoes and the peel of a large lemon 
into it. Let them simmer a few minutes, then add the juice 
of the lemon ; when the tomatoes appear clear and soft, take 
them out of the syrup, one at a time ; put them in tumblers 
or small jars; pour the syrup over them warm. When cold 
cover them with brandied paper, and paste paper over them. 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Take large fine oranges with thin dark-colored skins. 
Weigh them, and allow to each pound of oranges one pound of 
sifted suo-ar ; pare off the yellow outside rind from half of the 
oranges as thin as possible, put these rinds in a pan with 
plenty of cold water, cover it closely, and boil slowly till they 
are so soft that the head of a pin will pierce them. In the 
meantime grate the rind from the remainder of the oranges, 
and put the rind aside ; quarter the oranges and take out all the 
pulp, removing the seeds and core. Put the sugar in the 
preserving-kettle with a half-pint of water to each pound of 
fruit ; when the sugar is all dissolved, put the kettle on the 
fire and boil and skim till the syrup is quite clear and thick. 
Next take the boiled parings, cut them in small pieces, half 
an inch long ; put them in the sugar and boil ten minutes. 
Then put in the pulp and juice, and the grated rind ; boil 
together twenty minutes, till a transparent mass is formed. 
When cold put in glass jars, laying brandied paper on top. 



92 PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 

Lemon marmalade can be made in the same way, using a 
pound and a half of sugar. 



SPICED PEACHES. 

To seven pounds of pared peaches use four pounds of sugar, 
half-pint of vinegar, spices to taste. Make the syrup, and 
when warm put the peaches in it and let them simmer, and 
then take them out. Next day repeat. 



SPICED PLUMS. 

Five quarts or seven pounds of blue plums, three pounds of 
sugar, one quart of vinegar, one ounce of whole cloves, and a 
stick of cinnamon. Put all together in a preserving kettle 
and boil until done. 



BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Scald smoothly pared peaches in an ordinary syrup, until 
soft enough to run a straw in ; place them in a jar ; make a 
fresh rich syrup ; to one pint of syrup add one pint and a half 
of the best whisky or brandy. Pour this over the peaches 
and let it stand over night ; if the syrup looks thin, boil it 
over again and add more sugar. 



BOULEVARD BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Half-gallon of peach brandy, four pounds of sugar, and 
eight pounds of peaches. Dissolve the sugar in the brandy. 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 93 

Boil the peaches in clear water until you can run a straw 
through them easily ; then drop them into the brandy while 
hot. Do not cook the brandy, the fruit will cook it enough. 
Seal up at once. 



CURRANT JJELLY. 

Wash, but do not stem the currants, mash them and strain 
through a jelly strainer. Take a pound of sugar for each 
pint of juice, and put the juice in the preserving-kettle and 
put it on the range alone. When it begins to boil, stir the 
sugar in gradually ; let it boil, after all the sugar is in, five 
minutes ; take it from the fire and fill tumblers, and paste 
white paper, with whites of eggs, over them. 



GELATINE JELLY. 

On one box of gelatine pour one pint of cold water ; on 
two pounds of white sugar pour three pints of boiling water; 
grate the rind of three lemons in the syrup, and add the juice. 
Let the gelatine stand for a half-hour, then pour it on the 
sugar and water, add a pint of wine ; then strain it through 
book muslin. 



ORANGE JELLY. 

Whites of two eggs, eight sweet oranges, two lemons, 
quarter-pound of sugar, one ounce of gelatine, and one gill of 
cold water ; grate the rinds of the oranges and lemons ; melt 
the sugar in a small saucepan with half-gill of water ; when 
melted add the juice and rind of the oranges and lemons. 



94 PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 

Soak the gelatine for ten minutes with half a gill of cold 
water ; then add to the other ingredients. Whip the eggs 
slightly and pour them into the saucepan ; whisk all together 
until it boils ; then put on the lid of the saucepan and allow 
it to simmer for twenty minutes. Pour through a flannel bag, 
and then pour it in the mould. D. 



WINE WHEY. 

Boil a pint of new milk, sweeten to taste, and throw in a 
wine-glassful of sherry. As soon as the curd forms, strain 
the whey through muslin. 



GINGER BEER. 



On three pounds of brown sugar, two and a half table- 
spoonfuls of the best ginger, and two fresh lemons, thinly 
sliced, pour two gallons of boiling water, and stir in two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream-tartar ; mix all well together ; when cool 
strain, and when quite cold add one pint of yeast, then bottle 
and cork tight, and in twenty-four hours it is fit for use. 



RASPBERRY SYRUP. 

Wash berries and strain them the same as for jelly. Then for 
every quart of juice put one pound of white sugar and boil 
the whole about half an hour until it becomes slightly thick. 
Bottle it while hot. 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 95 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Put half a cake of chocolate in a porcelain kettle, then add 
two cupfuls of sugar, a half-cupful of New Orleans molasses, 
one cupful of good sweet milk, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; then put the kettle on the range to boil ; put a little 
to cool on a plate ; if it is stiff, then stir in two tal)lespoonfuls 
of vanilla, then pour the whole into flat greased pans. When 
the caramels are getting cold take a knife and mark them in 
squares. 



DOMESTIC CONFECTION. 

" The peel of the orange preserved in sugar is one of the 
most delightful confections which a family can use. The peel 
should of course be clean, and should be cut in long strips 
and thin. Stew it in water till all the bitterness is extracted. 
Throw away the water and stew again for half an hour in a 
thick syrup, made of a pound of sugar to one pound of peel, 
with just Avater enough. Put away in a cool place for flavor- 
ing puddings, pies, etc. For this purpose it should be chopped 
very fine." 



96 



PICKLES. 



CHOW-CHOW. 

Take four stalks of celery, one pint of small onions, three 
large cauliflowers, twelve large pickles, cut up small, or 
twenty-five very small ones, as you prefer, quarter-pound of 
mustard, five cents worth of tumeric ; put all these in an 
earthen pan, and salt them and let them stand for twelve 
hours. Boil three quarts of the best cider vinegar ten 
minutes ; take the pickles out of the salt and throw the 
vinegar on them. Fill your jars, and seal them up. 



COLD TOMATO CATSUP. 

Chop fine half-peck of ripe tomatoes, two grated roots of 
horseradish, two red peppers (without the seeds), one teacup- 
ful of black and white mustard-seed, one teacupful of salt, 
one teacupful of white sugar, two teaspoonfuls of black 
pepper, one teaspoonful of powdered cloves, one teaspoonful 
of powdered mace, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one quart 
of vinegar, two or three stalks of celery. 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Wash and slice half-bushel of green tomatoes, also a dozen 
onions and a few blades of garlic, twelve pods of green pep- 



PICKLES. 97 

pers — all sliced ; sprinkle salt over them, and let them lie all 
night ; in the morning drain them ; put two ounces of mixed 
mustard, two ounces of raw ginger, two ounces of allspice, 
one ounce of mace, and one ounce of tumeric in a muslin 
bag; all the spices must be ground and mixed together; put 
a layer of tomatoes and spices alternately in the kettle; add 
strong vinegar, two gallons to this quantity, and two pounds 
of brown sugar. Boil until they are tender. 



PEPPER SAUCE. 

Six large heads of cabbage, one dozen and a half of green 
peppers, four tablespoonfuls of celery-seed, four of mustard- 
seed, half pound of whole allspice, one-eighth of a pound of 
cloves; chop the cabbage, sprinkle salt well through, and 
put under a weight ; pour the water off when it is pressed out ; 
chop up the peppers, and add them to the cabbage. Boil the 
spices and seeds in the vinegar. Tie the spices in a bag. 
When cold, pour the vinegar all over the cabbage. 



98 



POTTING. 



"In England potting is an every-day affair for the cook. 
If there be ham, game, tongue, beef, or fish on the table one 
day, you are quite sure to see it potted on the next day at 
lunch or breakfast. It is a very good way of managing left 
over food, instead of invariably making it into hashes, stews, 
etc. These potted meats will keep a long time. They are 
not good unless thoroughly pounded, reduced to the smoothest 
possible paste, and free from any unbroken fibre." 



POTTED CHICKEN, AND TONGUE OR HAM. 

Roast the chicken, take off all the meat, separating it from 
the sinews, and skin, chop and pound thoroughly with a pound 
of tongue or ham. Let the bones of the chicken be boiled 
down to a glaze, moisten the pounded meat with this glaze, 
season with salt, cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and a piece of 
butter. When well pounded in a mortar to a paste, put it 
into pots, with some boiling water in the bottom ; let them be 
steamed half an hour and then let them cool. Press the 
meat down again, wipe dry and cover with some hot butter. 
It will keep for months. 



PLAS EYTON POTTED HAM. 

Mince some cold cooked ham, mixing lean and fat together; 
pound in a mortar, seasoning at the same time with cayenne 



POTTING. 99 

pepper, and powdered mace, and mustard. Put into a dish 
and place in the oven ; half an hour afterwards pack it in 
small stone jars, and cover with a layer of clarified butter, 
luke-warm, and tie bladders or paste paper over them. Left- 
over meat may be potted in the same way ; chop the meat 
well cooked, and pound with butter, salt, pepper, and mace; 
prepare as for potted ham. 



MORECAMBE POTTED HERRINGS. 

Scale them and take off the heads and tails, and with the 
head and gills draw out carefully a string that runs through 
the body, letting the roe remain ; wipe them dry and pack 
them in a stone pot, and between every layer of fish strew a 
mixture of salt, black pepper, ground allspice and cloves, 
adding some whole pepper and allspice. Cover them with 
vinegar, and lay a plate on top of the fish to keep them down. 
Cover the pot with dough and put in the oven, when the oven 
is cooling after a bread baking. Let them remain until the 
oven is cold. If a second plate is put on top, it prevents the 
dough falling. 



NEW BRIGHTON POTTED LOBSTER. 

Put the lobster in boiling water, and let it boil for half an 
hour; then pick all the meat from the body and claws, 
and beat it in a mortar; add nutmeg, mace, cayenne 
and salt to the taste; beat the coral separately; then put the 
pounded meat into a large potting-can, with a cover ; press it 
down hard, having arranged it in alternate layers of white 
meat and coral, to give it a marbled appearance; cover it with 



100 POTTING. 

fresh butter and put it in a slow oven for half-hour. When 
cold, take off the butter and clarify it by putting it into a jar, 
which must be set in a pan of boiling water; put the lobster 
into small potting-cans, pressing it down very hard ; pour the 
clarified butter over it, and secure the covers tightly. Potted 
lobster is used to lay between thin slices of bread as sandwiches. 



POTTED TONGUE. 

One pound of boiled tongue, six ounces of butter, some 
cayenne, small spoonful of mace, nutmeg and cloves, each 
half a teaspoonful ; the tongue must be unsmoked, boiled and 
skinned ; pound it in a mortar as fine as possible, with the 
spices ; when well blended, press the meat into small 
potting-pans, pour over it clarified butter, luke-warm, and tie 
bladders, or paste paper over them. A small quantity of 
roast veal, or the breast of turkey or chicken added is an 
improvement. 



INDEX 



Albany Cake 


78 


Celery Sauce .... 


52 


Angels' Food . 


. 86 


Cherry Pudding , 


64 


Apple Custard 


61 


Chicken Croquettes . 


33 


" Dumplings 


. 61 


Potted . 


98 


" Preserve , 


89 


Salad 


46 


" Sauce . 


. 51 


" Spring . 


30 


Artichokes, To Boil 


44 


Chocolate Caramels . 


95 


Asparagus Soup 


. 5 


" Jumbles 


86 


Bag Pudding 


61 


" Pudding . 


64 


Batter Pudding 


. 62 


" " Georgetown 


66 


Suet 


62 


Chow-Chow .... 


96 


Bean Soup 


. 5 


Clam Fritters . . . . 


14 


Black or Tu 


rtle . 6 


" Soup .... 


6 


Beef, A la Mode 


. 20 


Cocoanut Balls 


86 


" Broiled, Devilled 


38 


" Drop Cake . 


87 


" Cakes 


. 88 


Pie . 


57 


" Cannelure of 


38 


" Sponge Cake 


78 


" Fillet of . 


. 21 


Codfish Balls . . . . 


19 


" " with Sa 


ace . 22 


Cole Slaugh 


47 


" Kidney, Fried 


. 23 


Composition Cake . 


78 


" Roast . 


20 


Confection, Domestic . 


95 


" Salting - 


. 22 


Consomme Soup 


7 


" Tea . 


6 


Conserve, Lemon 


71 


Berry Pudding 


. 62 


Corn Bread . . . . 


50 


Boston Sauce 


53 


" Fritters 


41 


Brain Cakes 


. 40 


" Oysters . . . . 


41 


Bread Pudding, Boilec 


62 


" Pudding 


41 


" " Arcad 


lan . 63 


" Soup . . . . 


8 


Breakfast Cakes . 


48 


Cottage Cheese Cake . 


56 


Rolls 


. 48 


" Pudding 


64 


Broil Fish, To . 


18 


Crabs, To Choose and Prepare 


14 


Brown Betty Pudding 


. 63 


" Devilled . 


14 


Brown Sauce 


52 


" Soft Shell . 


15 


Buns, Franklin 


. 79 


Cream for filling Cakes 


71 


Calf's Head, Baked . 


27 


Cream Sauce .... 


54 


" To Prepai 


re . 26 


Croquettes, Chicken 


33 


or Mock T 


urtleSoup 9 


" Rice 


33 


Calf's Liver, Roast . 


. 27 


" Rice for Meats . 


34 


" Stewed . 


27 


" Potato . 


34 


Caper Sauce . 


. 51 


Veal . 


35 


Caramel for Coloring 


Soups 


Crullers 


79 


and Gravies . 


5 


Currant Jelly . . . 


93 


Cauliflower, To Boil 


. 44 


" " Sauce 


51 



INDEX. 



Custard Puddiug, Orange 


67 1 


Liver, Hashed 


39 


" Tie . 


57 


Lobster, Boiled . 


15 


" Frozen . 


77 


" Soup 


8 


Cutlets, Wiudliam . 


24 j 


" Potted . 


99 


Dandy Pudding . 


05 I 


Salad 


46 


Doughnuts . . . . 


60 


Macaroon Custard 


71 


Ducks, Roast 


30 


Maccaroni with Cheese . 


32 


Wild . . . . 


30 


" Cheese 


42 


Eggs, Scrambled . 


32 


Malina Pie .... 


40 


Egg Plant . . . . 


45 


Marble Cake 


81 


English Plum Pudding 


65 


Mary's Cake .... 


82 


Fish, Broiled 


18 ; 


Marmalade, Orange 


91 


Fish a la Russe 


18 


Maryland Biscuit 


49 


" Plain Fry . 


18 


Minnesota Biscuit 


49 


Fig Pudding . 


66 


Mint Sauce .... 


51 


Floating Island . 


73 1 


Mince Meat 


56 


Fruit Cake 


79 1 


"Pie ... . 


59 


" Pudding, Boiled 


63 i 


Mock Turtle Soup 


9 


Frozen Custard 


77 


Mushrooms, Stewed 


44 


♦' Peaches . 


77 


MuSans, Potato . 


50 


German Sweet Sauce 


54 


No Name Cakes 


87 


Gelatine Jelly 


98 


Nut Kisses .... 


87 


Ginger Beer 


94 


Okra Gumbo Soup . 


9 


Ginger-Bread, Hard . 


80 


Omelette, French 


32 


Soft . 


80 


Oriental Mullagatawny Soup 


10 


" Southern Soft 


80 


Orange Custard Pudding 


67 


" Shiny Backs 


81 


" Pudding 


67 


Ginger Nuts, Jingo 


81 


" Cake 


82 


Green Gages, To Preserve 


89 


" Marmalade . 


91 


Hare, Jugged 


29 


" Jelly 


93 


Ham, Potted . 


98 


Souffle 


72 


Herring, Potted . 


99 


" Water-Ice 


76 


Hominy, Boiled 


45 


" Pudding, St. Augustine 


69 


Ice-Cream, Bisque 


76 


Oysters, Pickled . 


16 


" Peach . 


76 


Fried 


16 


Icing 


88 


Oyster Soup, 


11 


" Boiled . 


88 


•' Stewed 


15 


Indian Pudding . 


66 


Ox Tail Soup 


10 


Jumbles .... 


87 


Ox Heart, Roast 


22 


Kaloola Cake 


83 


" Stewed 


22 


Lady Cake 


81 


Parker House Rolls 


48 


Lamb, Broiled Shoulder of . 


24 


Pancakes .... 


72 


Lawler's Dressing . 


• 46 


Pea Soup . . . . 


11 


Lake George Sauce 


54 


" " Green 


8 


Lemon Pudding, Gordale 


. 59 


" " Split 


13 


" Custard, Durentum . 


57 


" " " (Old) . . 


12 


" Pie, Long Branch 


. 58 


Pepper Pot . . . . 


12 


" " Mountain Lake . 


58 


Pepper Sauce 


97 


" " Merton College 


. 58 


Peaches, Spiced 


92 


Lincoln Pudding . 


67 


•' Frozen . 


77 



INDEX. 



Peaches, Brandied 


92 


Suet Pudding 


69 


" " Boulevard 


92 


Sweet Potatoe Pie . 


. 60 


Plums, Spiced 


92 


Sweet Breads, French Style 85 


Pennyghent Jumbles 


87 


" " Larded 


. 36 


Pie Crust, Plain . 


5t; 


" " with Peas 


35 


Pig, Roast a Sucking 


28 


Tapioca Pudding, Fruit . 


. 69 


Plum Pudding, English 


G5 


" .Cream 


75 


Pumpkin Pie . 


r)9 


Teal .... 


. 30 


Pudding Sauce 


53 


Terrapin, Prepared 


17 


Pound Cake 


82 


Tongue, Stewed 


. 23 


Pork and Beans . 


42 


" Rolled . 


23 


Pop Overs 


73 


Tomatoes, Baked 


. 43 


Potting .... 


98 


" Preserved . 


91 


Potato Muffins 


50 


" Catsup 


. 96 


Potomac Sauce 


56 


" Green Pickles 


96 


Potatoes, Lyonnaise, 


43 


Tongue, Potted 


98 


" Chips . 


43 


'■ " . . 


. 100 


" Croquettes 


34 


Tripe .... 


36 


" Salad . 


47 


" Fried 


. 36 


Quail, to Cook . 


31 


Turkish Soup 


18 


" " Truss 


31 


Turkey, to re-cook . 


. 87 


Queen Pudding 


67 


" Scalloped 


37 


Quinces, Preserved 


90 


Venison Steaks 


. 29 


Raspberry Syrup / . 


94 


Vanilla Sauce 


54 


Rabbit, Jugged . 


29 


Veal Croquettes 


. 35 


Rice Pudding, Plain 


08 


" Cutlets, Breaded . 


25 


" " . . 


68 


" Fricandeau of . 


. 25 


" Meringues 


73 


" Rolled 


26 


" Croquettes . 


33 


" Minced . 


, 39 


" " for Meats 


34 


" Pressed 


39 


Roily Polly 


68 


Vermicelli Pudding 


. 70 


Roman Punch 


77 


Viennese Pudding 


70 


Salmon, Boiled 


19 


Velvet Cream . 


. 75 


Scones, Dropped 


49 


Waffles 


50 


Snowflake Cake 


83 


Walnut Cake . . 


. 84 


Snow Pudding 


68 


Washington Cake 


85 


Snapper, Stewed 


17 


Water Ice, Orange . 


. 76 


Spring Chicken . 


30 


" " Lemon 


76 


Spanish Sauce, quick 


52 


" " Strawberry 


. 77 


" Cream . 


74 


" " Pine Apple 


77 


Sponge Cake . 


83 


" " Roman Punch 


. 77 


" West End 


84 


White Potato Pie 


60 


" " Cream 


84 


" Cake . 


. 85 


Strawberry Cake 


74 


Wine Sauce 


53 


Short Cake . 


76 


" Royal . 


. 63 


" Sponge Cake 


75 


Wine Whey 


94 


Strawberries, whole, to Preser\ 


e90 







MT. VERNON MARKET. 



THE PLACE TO BUY YOUR 

GROCERIES, MEATS, AND PROVISIONS, 

GARY'S CREAMERY BUTTER 

TEC OS.- HI. H: JL IS li J^ IsT, 
South-east cor. Eighteenth & Mt. Vernon Sts., Philada. 




J. C. HARMAN, 



MANUFACTURER OF 



UMBRELLAS AND PARASOLS, 

— Walking Sticks a Specialty. — 
1804 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA. 

101 7 



XrXlvI E D L A R^ a 

(limited,) 
MANUFACTURERS OF FINE 

AND BISCUITS, 
ljf28 to IJfSM, Fairmount Avenue, 



PHILADELPHIA. 



AUGUSTUS DAVIS, 

BEEF OF THE FINEST QUALITY, 

\ 52? & 529 5tli Ay., Riflp Ai Fmers' MarM, 

RIDGE AVENUE AND EIGHTEENTH ST. 

Marheting delivered free of charge. 



WILLIAM SUTHERLAND, 

Landscsipe and Jolblbimg (Sardeiier^ 

Twenty-first Street, helow Green, 

Nurseries, 65th St. and Elmwood Av. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

All work done in toton and country on reasonable terms. 

C. BROAVN, 

DEALER IN 

GROCERIES AND PROVISIONS, 

1813 Fairmount Avenue, 

CORNER SHIRLEY, 

PHILADELPHIA 
A II hinds of Fresh Meats and Country Produce in season. 

102 



F. M. BUSH, 

GENERAL UPHOLSTERER. 



FINE SPRING, HAIR, AND HUSK 

MATTRESSES MADE TO ORDER. 

LACE CURTAINS CLEANED AND STORED. 

Ml kinds of Furniture Stored. 

RE-UPHOLSTERED. REPAIRED & OILED. 

Fmitiire Covers ai Slips iifle ail M at short notice. 

Upholstering and Jobbing of every description. 
Carpets and Matting Sewed and Laid. 

Veraiali, Awiini, ai WiMoi-Me fflaiMiirer. 

All kinds of Cabinets and Brackets on hand. 

F. M.^USH, 

N. E. corner 17th and Wallace Streets, 

:e'iz:iil>^^id:oil.:e=:e3:i-^. 



WIENER BROTHERS, 



DEALERS IN 



FINE FRUITS, NUTS k CONFECTIONERY, 

Fancy Groceries, 

Choice Mian, Freicii ani all Iiortefl Wines, 

FOR FAMILY USE. 

^ 1227 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. 

Confections, Holiday Novelties, German Favors, &.c. 
Fruits handsomely arranged in Baskets. 

Wiener Brothers, 1227 Chestnut Street. 

STEWART, PEIRCE & CO. 

LACES, 

EMBROIDERIES, 

HANDKERCHIEFS. 



Gents' t\tecl? Wear and Notions. 

Tie West-Eld Unlannflriel Slirt a Specialty. 

1416 Chestnut Street, 

104 



The handy getting of things. 

Never tire of congratulating yourselves, Philadelphians, on 
your markets ; in which nearly everything for your bounteous 
larders is got under the cool shadow of one roof 

Here, too, you find under one roof, and on one floor, 
almost everything that people in other cities have to go for, 
in all weathers, from store to store, and from street to street. 
Did you ever think how much extra you could afford to pay 
for goods for such handiness of getting them ? 

And as you get good butter and fresh vegetables in the 
markets — good and fresh above the goodness and freshness 
known in most cities. New York for example — so here you 
get the best things in the whole world, if you like ; in silks, 
dress-goods, bonnets, shoes, gloves, shirts; in short, in almost 
everything you deck your persons or furnish your homes 
with; and when you find our price for anything higher than 
somebody else's, let us know! 

Our house is too big to be fine, and our visitors too many 
to be select ; it is a big everybody's house ; there are every- 
body's goods in it ; and yours, no matter whether your 
purse is heavy or light. We welcome you all ; we provide 
for you all; and we do not mean to provide meanly or 
thinly, or any way but bountifully. 

The test of a merchant is, how big and how true a 
dollar's worth does he give ? 

JOHN WANAMAKER. 

Chestnut, Thirteenth and Market Streets, and City Hall Square. 



105 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

GEORGE G. THOMAS' IMPROVED 
Ventilatorfs dS: Chimney-Tops, 

(Patented July 11, 1871,) 

FOR PRIVATE RESIDENCES, PUBLIC BUILDINGS, &c. 

Also, Manufacturers of and Dealers in 

6S7 Morih Jfineteenth Street, Philadelphia. 



Joseph Allen, ESTABIjISBED 1835. James C. Allen, 

Henry W. Allen, Joseph Allen, Jr. 



Medal Awarded 1876, International Exhibition. 

ttm CIESTNUT STIBET, 

MANUFACTORY. r^T^ : ] ^ -J ^] ^-u :^ 

N.E. cor. 12th & Hamilton sts. iTnuaaeipnia. 

i/fO'J^ Jiflounf V'tinon sSUul, 

Cakes, Ice-Creams, Jellies, Meringues, Charlotte Russe, 

&c. &c. 

PARTIES AND WEDDINGS SUPPLIED. 

lOG 



H. HUTCHISON,. 

0-raca.^-Late of I='iLilad.a,. Collegfe of :E=l:i.arxaaac3r, 

Fairmount Avenue ^ Twentieth St. 



P. E. CHILL.MAN, 

I^or2:2:ierl3r of IP. E. Clxillrsn.a.2nL cSc Co. 

STTSTTC Fl OTOGE APTIf K, 

»M. Alt- II STIlEET, 



— Established 1800 — 



PEALKK IN 



RIBBONS, SILKS AND VELVETS, 

-MILLINERY GOODS- 
105, 107 ^ 109 JYorth Eighth Street, 

PHILABELPHIA. 

Trim-am-eci Ha,ts axi-d. Bon^LanLets a- specia,lt37-. 

GEO. L. LUTZ, 

MERCHANT TAILOR, 

NORTH-WEST CORNER 

RIDGE & FAIRMOUNT AVENUES 

PHILADELPHIA. 

107 



JOHN WANAMAKER & GO. 



" I say, Fred, where'd you get those trousers ?" 
"Where I get everything — why? but why weren't 

you over last night?" 

" Never mind last night. I want to know about 

those trousers." 

"You're too hard on a fellow — they're Wana- 

maker's kerseys, if you must know — but — " 
"You don't mean those $3.50 kerseys?" 
" I do exactly — if I like a thing I don't care how 

little I pay for it — do you ?" 

John Wanamaker & Co. 

820 Chestnut Street. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



A^ V 



f AGTOIY 



i=mij^^^EiL.mi.A.. 



First-class Paper Hangers sent to all parts of the country. 

108 



BARRETT & MARSHALL, 

1914 PAIRMOUNT AVENUE, 

Building and House-Furnishing 

HARDUrARS^ 

READY-MIXED PAINTS FOR FAMILY USE, 

Putty and Glass, Tine Cutlery and Plated Ware. 

HARRY C. BARRETT. rOBT. L. MARSHALL. 



I 



Villi I IIIJ AklTII^ 



ITHE BEST THREAD for SEWING MACHINES J 



Tf ILLIIfimni lU 



Tie Best Spool Coto for MacMnes M M Serai 

ITS T^'P n^ 

WILLIMANTIQ 

New Six-Cord Soft Finish. 
STEOJVG, SMOOTH AJVD ELASTIC. 
Ask for the RED LABEL. 



DIAMONDS. 



WATCHES. 



HAMRICK & SON, 



804 Chestnut Street, 

FINE JEWELRY. PHl!)tJ©iLPM(]^= SILVERWARE. 

109 



Established 1841. 



DAVID CARRICK & CO. 



JIANrFACTURERS OF 



Crack, Cake; lis&uitMnlConfcctioiisrj 

JVos. 1903 and 1905 Market Street, 



JOSEPH SLACK, 

19th and Ridge Avenue, 

AND 

N. W. corner 17th and Fairmount Ave. 

DEALER IN ALL KINDS OF 



mmm\ 



3 d 



FRESH MEATS AND VEGETABLES DAILY. 



CHOICE ALDERNEY BUTYER. 



PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING 

In all its branches promptly executed by 

TOY 6L BRO. 

929 Filbert Street, Philadelphia. 

jg@°"Sewcr-Gas Prevented. — Drains Laid. — ^Ventilation a Specialty. "^g 
All orders received at residence, 2002 Mt. Vernon Street, promptly 
attended to. — Charges low. 
110 



MERCHANT TAILOR, 

1 5 1 S Chestnut street, 

Naval Uniforms. PHILADELPHIA. 



THACKARA, BUCK & CO. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

ilf ISf 10 MB lllf iiie, 

No. 718 CHESTNUT STREET, 

PHILADELPHIA. 



0@atli©itil Oiipl Ofeislig 

AND 

FIRE-PROOF STORE HOUSE, 

(OUR NEW BUILDING,) 

20fh Street, above Chestnut Street, Ptiitade/phia. 

J8@°'72 separate rooms for the storage of Furniture and Household Goods. 
Ill 



GEAP mm^ OF CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. 



tOYS 



FANCY GOODS AND NOVELTIES 

III unsurpassed variety and extremely low prices. 

1006 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. 



BUSH^HILL 



NEW AND SECOND-HAND 



Bought and Sold. 

S. E. CORNER 

RIDGE AVE. & SPRING GARDEN STREET, 



^i3:iIj^^I3EI_iI=i3:i^^. 



All kinds of Furniture stored. 



Diina anl Cut Elassware neatly hii 

BY 

F. BENDIMERE,. 

818 Taney Street, Philadelphia. 

Vases and other Ornaments Cemented. 



The Extension of Cracks in Plate-Glass and China eiiectually Prevented. 
112 




113 



GLEN ECHO MILLS. 




BiBp va 





MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF 

O ^ fii F A 7 Z XT G S , 

1012 & 1014 CHESTNUT STREET, 

PHILADELPHIA. 



SEOHZE MONmS 




IBB 



CEMETERY ENCLOSURES, 

AKK UNRIVALLED FOR 

BEAUT Y — E C O N O M Y D U R A B I L I T Y. 

PAXSON, COMFORT & CO. 



523 Market Street, Philadelphia. 
Gall or send for lllustrafed Price List. 



114 



j:^' 



o 



3EAflIS' GA 



'^■k 
^ 






-^b22- 



G? 



i-eM-nu-'t 



/ k^/.© 



t:/'e 




i-i-li^t^^-e-lMfi it^ 



JAMI5 s. tKm;i & sorfs. 



IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF 



I I 



ookinjUlassESpDilPaintinjsJinoEiipings 

Chromo-LithographSy Picture-Frames. 

AGENTS FOR THE CELEBRATED 




HOWSON & SONS, 
SOLICITORS OF PATENTS, 

AND 

COUNSEL IN PATENT CASES, 

Principal Offices, No. 119 South Fourth Street, 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

Branch Office, 605 Seventh Street, Washington, D. C. 

115 



L. KNOWLES. C. P. PEROT. 

250 & 252 N. BROAD STREET, PHILADELPHIA, 

Fine Family ^ E« O IT a a Specialty. 

PILLBURT's best, ^ r KING OF ALL, 

Hamilton's fancy, I a j. r j red star, 

GOLD medal, r "gGHtS TOr A PATAPSCO, 

plant's extra, ) y stonewall. 

CHAS. M. VANDBGRIPT, 

BUILDING AND 

HOUSE-FURNISHING 

HARDAVARE, 

N. E. CORNER 

Twentieth and Callowhill Streets, 



Mechanics' Tools, Cutlery, Nails and Sash-Weights 



AT THE LOWEST MARKET PRICES. 



HENRY J. SCHOCH, 

rai m m ezcqaie stmies 



640 North Sixteenth Street, 

(Below Fairmount Avenue.) 

Orders left at 728 Green st. will be promptly attended to 

fi^-BOARDING HORSES A SrECIALTY.-^^a 
116 



m 



N. E. Cor. 17th and Wallace Streets, 






« si% Itrft dii 



„ 1^ Jk -. 



AH Kinds of Furniture Stored. 



Upholstering and Jobbing of every description. 






Hineteeath and Brown Streets, 



DEALER IN CHOICE 



Fruits, Vegetables, Meats, 



<Scc. <Scc. 



117 



■y-iCX 



^V A 



'f^ jA^^ \_f K 



iM 



ivi 



tJF 



im 



YKllimiflLL 



118 



