LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

^v^ 

Shelf.tD.3.15 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



v^ 



Our Cooks m Goukcil. 



A MANUAL 



OF 



Practical and Economical Recipes 



FOR THE HOUSEHOLD. 



f 



■]i 



/«- 



r 



1:1 IP 



Published, by the "l' Op \f-' ''^' 
LADIES OP THE CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH 
OF JEFFERSON, 0. 

1881. 



6 

^^^ 



An 



1^ 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1881, by 

S. W. DICKINSON, 
in the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 



Printed at the Publishing House of the Evangelical Association, 
Clevelaiid, O. 



TABLE OF- CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Introduction - - 5 

Soups - -7 

Shell Fish 12 

Fish . 17 

Poultry - 21 

Meats 26 

Relish for Meats - - 37 

Salads - 38 

Game 40 

Vegetables -42 

Eggs . 48 

Bread 50 

Breakfast Cakes 56 

Crackers - 58 

Cakes . 59 

Icing for Cake 76 

Cookies 77 

Ginger Cookies - - - 79 

Ginger Bread 81 

Doughnuts - - - - 83 

Crullers 85 

Pies - - . 86 

Puddings - - 92 

Pudding Sauce - 101 

Ambrosia, Custards, &c. 103 

Pickles 109 

Fruit, Jellies, Preserves, &c. 117 

Confectionery 124 

Drinks - 126 

The Sick Room - - ' 127 

Miscellaneous - 136 

Index 154 

(3) 



INTRODUCTION. 



This little volume is sent out by the ladies of the Congrega- 
tional Church of Jefferson to take a place among the many 
cook books already extant, in the hope— common with them — 
of promoting healthful and economical cooking. 

They are frank to say, also, with this laudable purpose they 
hope to aid an enterprise connected with their church. 

The recipes have been furnished by practical, successful 
housekeepers, and will be found reliable in every case. 

The laborer and the professional man needs plain, nutritious 
food properly prepared, nor shovild the polite dinner transgress 
a single law of health. 

Napoleon said, " An army moves upon its stomach; " and a 
certain divine affirms that much religious despondency is due 
to indigestion. Since health and happiness so largely depend 
on palatable and wholesome food, the best system of cooking 
should be followed. 

We often hear such remarks as: "I had poor luck with my 
bread today." "I didn't hit it right on my cake," while the 
truth is, such cooking is done in ignorance or inexcusable care- 
lessness. 

Cooking is an art ; and to be a success it is necessary first to 
have a good rule, and then carefully follow it. Sound judg- 
ment must be exercised it is true, and caution in regulating- 
the fire, but people who have no "knack," as they say, can 
cook well if they follow good recipes, and further, it is their 
duty. 

Mrs. Carlyle spent the first month of her married life crying 
over repeated failures, but through studious persistence she 
became accomplished in household duties, and this may have 
been one reason why her husband, great philosopher as he 
was, thought her the most remarkable woman, and best wife 
in the world. 

In the Miscellaneous department will be found important 
suggestions upon a variety of subjects needed every day in 
every household. An index is appended. 

That many may find the work helpful in their daily tasks is 
the wish of the 

COOKS IN COUNCIL. 
(5) 



OUR COOKS IN COUNCIL. 



SOUPS. 

To prepare good stock the meat should be fresh, lean and 
juicy to make the best soup. If it is to be eaten as soon as 
it is prepared, you should remove all the fat possible from 
the meat, for there is nothing more disagreeable than very 
greasy soup. If it is to be eaten next day, or later, stand 
the stock in a cool place, and remove all the grease from 
the top the next morning. 

Beef alone, with some vegetables, will make a good stock, 
but many people think that by adding chicken or veal it 
makes a soup of finer flavor; others think the addition of 
a ham bone a great improvement to the broth or stock. 
Stock can be made from the trimmings of fresh meat, or 
from the bones of any meat or fowl. 

Having selected 3^our meat, put it into cold water, about 
three pints to every pound of meat, and let it simmer 
elowly from one side, taking pains to remove all scum that 
rises. Should always keep your kettle covered, so as to re- 
tain all the flavor possible. Put in but little salt at first, 
and add salt, pepper, etc., to suit the taste when nearly 
done. It usually takes from three to five hours to cook the 
meat properly and make good broth or stock. When it has 
cooked say three hours, and all the scum has been re- 
moved, add one or two onions, fried brown in butter, and 
one or two carrots, or any other vegetable that you may 
prefer, but do not put in any vegetables till all the scum 
has been removed. If more water is needed, always add 
boiling water. 

Stock that is to be kept should always be strained into 
an earthen jar as soon as it is done, for it injures the color 
and flavor to stand in an iron pot. Stock should be kept 
in a cool place. It will form a jelly, and keep for a week 
or longer. 

(7) 



8 SOUPS. 

By adding macaroni, vermicelli, etc., to stock, you can 
have almost an}^ soup you may desire. It also makes very 
fine gravy by cutting off a piece of stock jelly and heating, 
thickening, and seasoning to taste. 

Savory herbs should always be at hand, for they are al- 
most indispensable to good cooking. The relish of a dish 
depends very much upon its savor, or taste, which can be 
changed almost as much as you please bj' using different 
savory herbs. Summer savory, sage, thyme, sweet marjo- 
ram, sweet basil, rosemary, bay leaves, and fennel, are 
among the best of the savory herbs. They can be pur- 
chased at almost any drug store and cost but little; but 
many people prefer to raise most of their savory herbs, 
which can be done with but little trouble. 

Browning for Soups. 

Many of the nicest soups owe their attractive appear- 
ance to burnt sugar, which is prepared as follows: Put 
three tablespoonfuls of brown sugar and an ounce of butter 
in a small frying-pan and set it over the fire; stir continu- 
ally until it is of a bright brown color, add half a pint of 
water, boil and skim, and when cold bottle for use. Add 
to soups at discretion just before serving. 

Bean Soup. 

Soak one and a half pints of beans in cold water over 
night. In the morning drain off the water, wash the beans 
in fresh water and put into soup kettle, with four quarts 
of good beef stock, from which all the fat has been re- 
moved. Set it where it will boil slowly but steadily till 
dinner, or three hours at the least. Two hours before din- 
ner slice in an onion and a carrot. Some think it im- 
proved by adding a little tomato. If the beans are not 
liked whole, strain through a colander and send to the ta- 
ble hot. 

Beef Soup. 

Boil a soup bone about four hours, then take out meat 
into a chopping-bowl ; put the bones back into the kettle. 
Slice very thin one small onion, six potatoes and three tur- 
nips into the soup. Boil until all are tender. Have at 
least one gallon of soup when done. It is improved by 
adding crackers rolled, or noodles, just before taking off. 
Take the meat that has been cut from the bones, chop fine 
while warm, season with salt and pepper, add one teacup of 
soup saved out before putting in the vegetables. Pack in 
a dish, and slice down for tea or lunch when cold. 



SOUPS. 9 

Celery Soup. 

One shank of beef, one large bunch of celery, one cup of 
rich cream. Make a good broth of a shank of beef, skim 
off the fat and thicken the broth with a little flour mixed 
with water. Cut into small pieces one large bunch of cel- 
ery, or two small ones, boiling them in the soup till tender. 
Add a cup of rich cream with pepper and salt. 

Chicken Soup. 

Boil a pair of chickens with great care, skimming con- 
stantly and keeping them covered with water. When ten- 
der, take out the chicken and remove the bone. Put a 
large lump of butter into a spider, dredge the chicken- 
meat well with flour, and lay in the hot pan ; fry a nice 
brown, and keep hot and dry. Take a pint of the chicken 
water, and stir in two large spoonfuls of curry powder, two 
of butter and one of flour, one teaspoonful of salt and a lit- 
tle cayenne; stir until smooth, then mix it wifh the broth 
in the pot. When well mixed, simmer five minutes, then 
add the browned chicken. Serve with rice. 

French Yegetable Soup. 

To a leg of lamb of moderate size take four quarts of wa- 
ter. Of carrots, potatoes, onions, tomatoes, cabbage, and 
turnips, take a teacup each, chopped fine; salt and pepper 
to taste. Let the lamb be boiled in this water. Let it 
cool; skim off all the fat that rises to the top. The next 
day boil again, adding the chopped vegetables. Let it boil 
three hours the second day. 

Fish Chowder. 

. Take a fresh haddock, of three or four pounds, clean it 
well, and cut in pieces of three inches square. Place in 
the bottom of your dinner-pot five or six slices of salt pork ; 
fry brown, then add three onions sliced thin, and fry those 
brown. Remove the kettle from the fire, and place on the 
onions and pork a layer of fish ; sprinkle over a little pep- 
per and salt, then a layer of pared and sliced potatoes, a 
layer of fish and potatoes, till the fish is used up. Cover 
with water, and let it boil for half an hour. Pound six 
biscuits or crackers as fine as meal, and pour into the potj 
and, lastly, add a quart or pint of milk ; let it scald well 
and serve. 

Fish Chowder. 

Take a pound of salt pork, cut into strips, and soak in 
hot water for five minutes. Cover the bottom of a pot with 



10 SOUPS. 

a layer of this. Cut four pounds of cod or sea-bass into 
pieces two inches square, and hiy enough of these on the 
pork to cover it. Follow with a la3'er of chopped onions, a 
little parsley, summer savory and pepper, either black or 
cayenne. Then a layer of split Boston or butter or whole 
cream crackers, which have been soaked in warm water 
until moist through, but not ready to break. Above this 
lay a stratum of pork, and repeat the order given above^ 
onions, seasoning (not too much), crackers and pork, until 
your materials are exhausted. Let the topmost layer be 
buttered crackers well soaked. Pour in enoush cold water 
to cover all barely. Cover the pot, stew gently for an hour, 
watching that the water does not sink too low. Should it 
leave the upper layer exposed, replenish cautiously from 
the boiling tea-kttle. When the chowder is thoroughly 
done, takeout with a perforated skimmer and put into a 
tureen. Thick^-n the gravy with a tablespoon of flour and 
about thp same quantity of butter. Boil up and pour over 
the chowder. Send sliced lemon, pickles and stewed toma- 
toes to the table with it, that the guests may add, if they 
like. 

Stock for Soup. 

Have a large pot on the back of the stove. Put in lean 
beef, either after having been cooked or before, in the pro- 
portion of one pound of be f to one quart of water. Add 
pork rinds with all the fat taken off. This may cook 
slowly two or three days. When cold, skim off all the fit 
and put into another vessel. This stock may be used for 
all soups in which meat-broth is required. Bv adding fjr 
thickening either barley, rice, sago, macaroni or vermicelli, 
it will make any of these soups. 

Tomato Soup. 

Mrs. W. P. Howland. 

To one quart of water add eight large tomatoes; cut in 
pieces and boil twenty minutes, add one-half teaspoon of 
soda and boil a few minutes more, then add a pint of sweet 
milk, then season as you would oysters. Bread crumbs, 
sago, barley or rice may be added. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Beat one egg light ; add a pinch of salt and flour enousrh 
•to make a stiff dough ; roll out in a very thin sheet, dredge 
•with flour to keep from sticking, then roll up tightly. Be- 
^in at one end and shave down fine, like cabbage for slaw. 



SOUPS. 11 

Harvest Soup. 

Cut in small piec'es one pound of good beef, cover with 
cold water, and boil gently for tbree hours ; let it stand 
over night ; remove all the'fat ; bring to a boil and add one 
can of lobster cut fine; prepare one cauliflower sliced, cut 
the corn from one dozen ears, break in small pieces one 
quart of butter beans, slice one onion, cut fine three or four 
radishes, and add all to the soup, with one whole green 
bull-pepper, one-half teaspoonfui black pepper, one tea- 
spoonful salt. In one hour add one quart of tomatoes 
sliced. When tender, carefully remove, without breaking, 
on a skimmer the bull-pepper ; simmer the rest four hours 
longer; add no more water before the tomatoes are put in 
than necessary to keep from burning; after they are in 
none will be needed. Half the above quantities can be 
used. Some like potato with the other vegetables. Add 
salt to taste before dishing. A little rice can be used if 
liked in the soup. 



12 SHELL FISH. 



SHELL FISH. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Chop the lobster very fine; mix with pepper, salt, bread 
crumbs and a little parsley ; moisten with cream and a 
small piece of butter; sha])e with your hands; dip in egg, 
roll in bread crumbs, and fry. 

Lobster Cutlets. 

Mince the flesh of lobters fine ; season with salt, pepper 
and spice ; melt a piece of butter in a saucepan ; mix with 
it one tablespoonful of flour; add lobster, finely-chopped 
parsley, mix with some good stock; remove from the fire, 
and stir into it tbe yolks of two eggs ; spread out the mix- 
ture, and, when cold, cut into cutlets, dip carefully into 
beaten egg, then into fine baked bread crumbs ; let them 
stand an hour, and repeat, and fry a rich brown. Serve 
with fried parsley. 

Lobster Rissoles. 

Boil the lobster, take out the meat, mince it fine, pound 
the coral smooth, and grate for one lobster the yolks of 
three hard-boiled eggs ; season with cayenne and a little 
salt: make a batter of milk, flour and well-beaten eggs — 
two tablespoonfuls of milk and one of flour to each egg; 
beat the batter well; mix the lobster with it gradually 
until stiff enough to roll into balls the size of a walnut; fry 
in fresh butter, or best salad oil, and serve. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Drain select oysters in a colander. Dip them one by one 
into melted butter, to prevent sticking to the gridiron, and 
place them on a wire gridiron. Broil over a clear fire. 
When nicely browned on both sides, season with salt, pep- 
per, and plenty of butter, and lay them on iiot buttered 
toast, moistened with a little liot water. Serve very hot, 
or they will not be nice. Oysters cooked in this way and 
served on broiled beefsteak are nice. 

Fried Oysters. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

When the oysters are taken from the pan, wrap them in 
,a dry cloth until the surface moisture of the oyster is ab- 



SHELL FISH. 13 

sorbed : then dip them in the white of an egg slightly 
beaten, from that into pulverized cracker, allowing all that 
will to adhere to the oyster ; then heat together as hot as 
possible, equal parts of butter and lard, in which fry them 
quickly. 

Fried Oysters. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Wipe the oysters on a napkin. Then dip them in well- 
beaten egg — then in Indian meal, or rolled cracker, or best 
of all is bread dried in the oven until a light brown and 
ground in the coffee mill. Fry in butter. Salt while frying. 

Oyster Pie. 

Make a rich puff paste; roll out twice as thick as for a 
fruit pie, for the top crust — about the ordinary thickness 
for the lower. Line a pudding dish with the thinner, and 
fill with crusts of dry bread or light crackers. Some use a 
folded towel to fill the interior of the pie, but the above ex- 
pedient is preferable. Butter the edges of the dish, that 
you may be able to lift the upper crust without breaking. 
Cover the mock pie with the thick crust, ornamented heav- 
ily at the edge, that it may lie more quietly, and bake. 
Cook the oysters as for a stew, only beating into them at 
the last, two eggs, and thickening with a spoonful of fine 
cracker crumbs or rice flour. They should stew but five 
minutes, and time them so that the paste will be baked 
just in season to receive them. Lift the top crust, pour in 
the smoking hot oysters, and send up hot. 

Many consider it unnecessary to prepare the oysters and 
crust separately; but experience and observation go to 
prove that if the precaution be omitted, the oysters are apt 
to be woefully overdone. The maker can try both meth- 
ods and take her choice. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Mrs. E. H. Way. 

Take one hundred large fine oysters and pick off care- 
fully the bits of shell that may be hanging to them. Lay 
the oysters in a deep dish and then strain the liquor over 
them. Put them in an iron skillet that is lined with por- 
celain, and add salt to your taste. Without salt they will 
not be firm enough. Set the skillet upon hot coals, and al- 
low the oysters to simmer till they are heated through, but 
not until they boil. Then take out the oysters and put 
them into a stone jar, leaving the liquor in the skillet. 



14 SHELL PISH. 

i 

Add to it a pint of clear cider vinegar, a large teaspoonful 
of blades of mace, three dozen whole cloves and three dozen 
whole pepper corns. Let it come to a boil, and when the 
oysters are quite cold in the jar, pour the liquor on them. 
The spices may be changed if desired. They are fit for use 
immediately, but are better the next day. In cold weather 
they will keep a Aveek. 

If you intend sending them a considerable distance, you 
must allow the oysters to boil, and double the proportions of 
the pickle and spices. 

Oysters with Toast. 

Broil or fry as many oysters as you wish, and lay them 
on buttered toast ; salt and pepper; pour over them a cup 
of hot, rich cream; keep them perfectly hot until eaten. 

Roasted Oysters. 

Take oysters in the shell, wash the shells clean, and lay 
them on hot coals ; when they are done they will begin to 
open. Remove the U})})er shell, and serve the oysters in 
the lower shell, with a little melted butter poured over 
each. 

Oysters, Fancy Roast. 

Toast a few slices of bread, and butter them; lay them 
in a shallow dish; put on the liquor of the oysters to heat; 
add salt and pei)per, and just before it boils add the oys- 
ters; let them boil up once, and pour over the bread. 

Stewed Oysters. 

Take one quart of liquor oysters; put the liquor (a tea- 
cupful for three) in a stew ])an, and add half as much 
more w^ater, salt, a good bit of pepper, a teaspoonful 
of rolled crackers for each. Put on the stove and let it boil. 
Have your oysters ready in a bowl, and the moment the 
liquor boils, pour in all your oysters, say ten for each per- 
son, or six will do. Now watch carefully, and as soon as it 
begins to boil take out your watch, count just thirty sec- 
onds, and take your oysters from the stove. You Avill have 
your big dish ready, with one and a half tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk for each person. Pour your stew on this, 
and serve immediately. Never boil an oyster in milk, if 
you wish it to be good. 

Maryland Stewed Oysters. 

Put the juice into a saucepan and let it simmer, skim- 
ming it carefully; then rub the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs and a large spoonful of flour well together, and stir into 



SflELL FISH. 15 

the juice. Cut in small pieces a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, half a teaspoonful of whole allspice, a little salt, a lit- 
tle cayenne, and the juice of a fresh lemon ; let all simmer 
ten minutes, and just before dishing add the oysters. This 
is for two quarts of oysters. 

Yacht Oyster Stew. 
Strain, cook, and skim the juice of twenty-four oysters ; 
boil celery and quarter of a small onion in a little water 
for half an hour, or until the celery is well cooked; then 
add a pint of milk or cream, a tablespoon of butter, a table- 
spoon of pounded crackers, a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
Bauce, salt, pepper the oysters and cooked juice, and boil all 
three minutes, or until the edges of the oysters shrivel. 

Oyster Fritters. 
One hundred oysters, six eggs, two cupfuls cracker-dust, 
half cupful wheat flour, milk enough to make a thick bat- 
ter; drain the oysters through a colander; beat the whites 
and yolks of the eggs sej)arately ; two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder put in last ; little dust of pepper. — L. I. C. 

Panned Oysters. 

Mrs. S. A. Korthway. 

Drain the oysters very dry, place the drip|)ings in a por- 
celain kettle, add one-half cup boiling water, season highly 
with butter, pepper and salt ; cream the butter with a lit- 
tle corn-starch, just enough to make the liquid creamy. 
After this boils add one-half quart of rich sweet cream ; pour 
the oysters into a scalding hot spider and turn them over 
and over until they are scalded through ; bake some crack- 
ers, place them in a deep dish which has been previously 
heated, then put in the oysters, and lastly the boiling hot 
sauce. Serve in small disiies, nice for a breakfast or tea party. 
Scalloped Oysters. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

To one can of oysters allow one teacupful of broken (not 
rolled) crackers, one-half cup of milk, one and one-half cups 
of oyst-^r liquor and water, not quite one-half pound of but- 
ter. Place a layer of oysters in the bottom of pan, then 
layer of crackers ; sprinkle plentifully with salt, pepper 
and bits of butter, then another layer of oysters, salt, pep- 
per and butter ; beat one egg, add to it the milk and water, 
and pour carefully over the whole ; cover and place in hot 
oven ; when steamed through remove the cover and brown 
slightly. Never have more than two layers each to a pan. 
Eight cans will feed fifty-five persons. 



16 SHELL Pisn. 

Oyster Soup with Milk, 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

Pour one quart of cold water over one quart of oysters; 
drain through a colander, boil and skim ; add the oysters 
and one-half cup of rolled crackers; season with pepper, 
and salt, and then add one quart of new milk, brought to 
boiling point in a pail set in boiling water. Serve at once. 

Plain Oystei* Soup. 

Pour one quart of oysters in colander; rinse by pouring 
over them one pint of cold water; add one pint of boiling 
water; let boil ; skim ; season with pepper, butter (size of 
an egg) ; then add oysters ; let boil up once only ; season 
with salt and serve. 

Clam Chowder. 

Fry five or six slices of fat pork, crisp, and chop to pieces. 
Sprinkle some of these in the bottom of a pot; lay upon 
them a stratum of clams; sprinkle with cayenne or black 
pepper and salt, and scatter bits of butter profusely over 
all ; next, have a layer of chopped onions, then one of small 
crackers split and moistened with warm milk. On these 
pour a little of the fat left in the pan after the pork is fried, 
and then comes a new round of pork, clams, onions, etc. 
Proceed in this order until the pot is nearly full, then 
cover with water, and stew slowly — the pot closely cov- 
ered — for three-quarters of an hour. Drain off all the liq- 
uor that will flow freely, and when you have turned the 
chowder into the tureen, return the gravy to the pot. 
Thicken with flour, or, better still, pounded crackers; add 
a glass of wine, some catsup and spiced sauce; boil it up 
and pour it over the contents of the tureen. Send around 
walnut or butternut pickles with it. 

Clam Stew. 

To one-half peck of hard-shell clams add one teacup of 
water, and steam until shells open ; take out of shells, then 
strain the juice, add it to the clams, and when they come 
to a boil add one pint of milk, piece of butter (size of an 
egg), three rolled crackers, pepper and salt if needed. 



FISH. 17 



FISH. 



Fish when fresh are hard when pressed by the finger — 
the gills red — the eyes full. If the flesh is flabby and the 
eyes sunken, the fish are stale. They should be thoroughly 
cleaned, washed, and sprinkled with salt. 

Before broiling fish, rub the gridiron with a piece of fat, 
to prevent its sticking. Lay the skin side down first. 

The earthy taste often found in fresh water fish can be 
removed by soaking in salt and water. 

Most kinds of salt fish should be soaked in cold water for 
twenty-four hours — the fleshy side turned down in the 
water. 

Fish may be scaled much easier by dipping into boiling 
water about a minute. 

Fish may as well be scaled, if desired, before packing 
down in salt, though in that case do not scald them. 

Salt fish are quickest and best freshened by soaking in 
sour milk. 

How to Cook Codfish. 

Mrs, II. L. Hervey. 

Soak the thickest part for two days in sweet skimmed 
milk. Roll in flour and fry quite brown. Scald, but do 
not boil, one teacup of sweet cream, and pour over the fish. 

Another Way. 

Remove the skin and bone. Make the fish fine by cut- 
ting it first in short pieces, then pick very fine ; throw into 
cold water for ten or fifteen minutes; keep in a warm place. 
Then pour off" the water, add a cup of milk and piece of 
butter, size of an egg; cook slowly fifteen minutes, then 
mix together one tablespoon of flour and one-half cup of 
sweet cream, and pour in the fish, letting it boil just a mo- 
ment, when it will be ready for the table. 

Codfish on Toast. 

Take a bowl full of shredded codfish, put this in cold wa- 
ter in a skillet. Let it come to a boil, then turn into a col- 
ander to drain. Turn into the skillet again with a little 
cold milk ; season with butter and pepper; stir smooth a 
tablespoonful of flour with a little cold milk ; add, and let 
it boil for a moment ; turn this on to buttered toast on a 
platter. 



18 PISH. 

Fish Fritters. 

Take salt codfish, soak it over night. In the morning- 
throw the water oft" the fish, put on fresh and set it on the 
range until it comes to a boil. Do not let it boil, as that 
will harden it. Then pick it up very fine, season with 
pepper, mace, and perhaps a little salt. Mnke a batter of 
a pint of milk and three eggs, stir in the fish and fry in 
small cakes. Any kind of cold fish makes nice fritters. 

Fisli Cakes. 

One pint bowl of salt codfish, picked very fine, two pint 
bowls of whole, raw, peeled potatoes; put together in cold 
water and boil till the potatoes are thoroughly cooked; re- 
move from fire and drain oft' all the water, mash with po- 
tato masher, add piece of butter, the size of an egg, two 
well beaten eggs and a little pepper; mix well with a 
wooden spoon; have a frying pan with boiling lard or 
drippings, into which drop a spoonful of mixture, and fry 
brown ; do not freshen the fish before boiling with pota- 
toes, and do not mold cakes, but drop from spoon. 

Codfish Balls. 

Mr:'. S. A. Northway. 

Pick the fish into small pieces; soak in plenty of water 
until fresh enough for the table; then chop verj' fine a lit- 
tle fried pork, put it and the fat fried out of it Avith the 
fish; stir in one or more beaten eggs, according to the 
quantity of fish ; add as much mashed and seasoned potato 
as there is the fish ; make into balls, roll in flour, drop 
them into fat, the same as doughnuts. 

Baked Fish. 

Mrs. B. C. Bowman, Jr. 

One good sized fish (fresh) ; make a stuffing same as for 
chicken. Fill the fish, and bind thin slices of salt pork 
around the fish, and bake same as you would chicken. 

Baked White Fish. 

Mrs. E. J. Betts. 

Freshen the fish ; put it in as small a pan as possible, 
and bake five minutes; then pour off" the liquid; pour 
over it one-half j^int cream, in which two tablespoons of 
flour have been stirred ; sprinkle with pepper, bake until 
brown. 

Baked Shad. 

Make a stuffing of grated bread-crumbs, cold ham, or ba- 
con, minced fine, a little sweet marjoram, cayenne pepper, 



FISH. 19 

a pinch of mace, and as much cloves as 3^011 can take up on 
the point of a pen-knife; moisten with yolk of egg; fill 
the inside of the fish, and put a little of the stuffing over 
the outside ; place in a baking-pan, a very little water, 
some butter and flour rubbed to a cream, a gill of port wine, 
and the juice of a lemon ; garnish with sliced lemon, very 
thin. 

Baked Fresh Fish. 

Open the fish so that it will lay perfectly flat. Rub salt 
over it, and lay it in a dripping pan with a very little but- 
ter and water. Put it in a very hot oven and bake twenty 
minutes or a half hour, according to the thickness of the 
fish. 

When done it will be a delicate brown, and will be 
cooked through without the trouble of turning. Of course 
the skin side is laid next to the pan. 

White fish cooked in this way are especially nice. 

Flaked Fish. 

Make a sauce by dredging some flour into two ounces of 
hot water in a stew-pan; add half a pound of cold fish, 
nicely flaked, one ounce of cold butter, a dessert-spoonful 
each of anchovy sauce and mixed mustard, one teacupful 
of cream, son)e pepper, salt, and a few bread crumbs. 
Make hot and serve as it is, or you may pour it into a but- 
tered dish, with the addition of a few bread crumbs, and 
brown the top in the oven. 

Pickled Salmon. 

Soak salt salmon twenty-four hours, changing the water 
frequentl}'; afterwards pour boiling water around it, and 
let it stand fifteen minutes; drain off and then pour on 
boiling vinegar with cloves and mace added. 

Boiled Salt Mackerel. 

After freshening fold in a cloth and simmer 15 minutes, 
when water reaches boiling point it is nearly done ; remove, 
pour over it drawn butter with two sliced hard-boiled eggs, 
and trim with parsley leaves. Boiling salt fish hardens it. 

Boiled Fresh Mackerel. 

Wash the mackerel with a cloth dipped in vinegar, then 
wrap and sew a cloth well floured around it and boil ^ hour. 
Serve with sauce made of part of the water in which it was 
boiled, seasoned with butter, pepper and salt, juice of half 
a lemon, or any other sauce with catsup as preferred. 



20 FISH. 

Fish Pie. 

Take any of the firm-fleshed fish, cut in slices, and sea- 
son with salt and pepper; let them stand in a very cool 
place for two or three hours, then put them in a baking 
dish, with a little cream or water and butter and flour rub- 
bed to a cream, with minced parsley and hard boiled eggs 
sliced ; line the sides of the dish half-way down, and cover 
with a nice paste. Bake in an oven, quick at first, but 
gradually growing moderate. 

Fisli Salad. 

Pick up cold fish and place in a frying-pan ; season with 
salt and pepper; the juice of a lemon and melted butter, a 
little vinegar, and one raw egg beaten ; let warm over a 
slow fire, stirring so that they do not burn ; place in a dish; 
serve cold. 



POULTRY. 21 



POULTRY. 

How to Choose Poultry. 

Young, plump, and well fed, but not too fat poultry are 
the best. The skin should be fine grained, clear and wbite; 
the breast full, fleshed, and broad ; the legs smooth. The 
birds must be heavy in proportion to their size. As 
regards ducks and geese, their breasts must also be plump ; 
the feet flexible and yellow. For boiling, white-legged 
poultry must be chosen, because when dressed their ap- 
pearance is by far the more delicate. But dark-legged ones 
are juicy and of a better flavor when roasted. The greatest 
precaution ought to be taken to prevent poultry from get- 
ting at all tainted before it is cooked. It should be killed 
and dressed from eight to ten hours before cooking. Pige- 
ons are far better for being cooked the day they are killed, 
as they lose their flavor by hanging. Care must be taken 
to cook poultry thoroughly, for nothing is more revolting 
to the palate than underdone poultry. 

Chicken Pot-Pie. 

Cut and joint the chicken, cover with water, and let it 
boil gently until tender. Season with salt and pepper, 
and thicken the gravy with two tablespoonfuls of flour 
mixed smooth in a piece of butter the size of an egg. Have 
ready nice light bread dough; cut with a biscuit-cutter 
about an inch thick; drop this into the boiling gravy, 
having previously removed the chicken to a hot platter ; 
cover, and let it boil from-half to three-quarters of an hour. 
To ascertain whether they are done or not, stick into one 
of them a fork, and if it comes out clean, they are done. 
Lay on the platter with the chicken, pour over the gravy 
and serve. 

Fried Chicken. 

Joint young, tender chickens; if old, put in a stew-pan 
with a little water, and simmer gently till tender; season 
with salt and pepper, dip into flour, and fry in hot lard 
and butter until nicely browned. Lay on a hot platter and 
take the liquor in which the chicken was stewed, turn into 
the frying-pan with the browned gravy, stir in a little 
flour; when it has boiled, stir in a teacup of rich, sweet 
cream, and pour over the chicken. 



22 POULTRY. 

Turkey Scallop. 

Pick the moat from the bones of cold turkey, and chop it 
fine. Put a hiyer of bread-crumbs on the bottom of a but- 
tered dish, moisten them with a little milk, then put in a 
layer of turkey with some of the filling, and cut small 
pieces of butter over the top; sprinkle with pepper and 
salt; then another layer of bread crumbs, and so on until 
the dish is nearly full; add a little hot water to the gravy 
left from the turkey, and pour over it. Then take two 
eggs, two tablt-spoonfuls of milk, one of melted butter, a 
little salt, and cracker crumbs as much as will make it 
thick enough to spread on with a knife, put bits of l)Utter 
over it, and cover with a plate. Bake three-quarters of an 
hour. About ten minutes before serving, remove the plate 
and let it brown. 

Scalloped Chicken. 

Mince cold chicken and a little lean ham quite fine, sea- 
son with pepper and a little salt; stir all together, add 
some sweet cream, enough to make it quite moist, cover 
with crumbs, put it into scallop shells or a flat dish, put a 
little butter on top, and brown before the fire or front of a 
range. 

Chestnut Stuffing. 

Boil the chestnuts and shell them, then blanch them and 
boil until soft : mash them fine and mix with a little sweet 
cream, some bread crumbs, pepper and salt. For turkey. 

A good way to cook Chickens. 

Take three or four chickens, and, after cleaning and 
washing them well in cold water, split them down the 
back, break the breast bone and unjoint the wings to make 
them lie down better; put them in a large bread-pan and 
sprinkle pepper, salt, and flour over them, put a large 
lump of fresh butter on each chicken, pour boiling water 
in the pan and set in the oven. Let them cook till very 
tender and a rich brown color; then take out on a large 
platter, put on more butter, and set in the oven to keep 
warm; put some sweet cream in the pan and add as much, 
hot water as you think necessary for the quantity of gravy 
you desire, though the more cream and the less water, the 
better the gravy. Thicken with flour; put a pint of the 
gravy on the chickens. They must be put on the table 
very hot. 



POULTRY. 23 

Red Brook Mushroom Chicken Fry. 

J. A. Howells. 

Put on the chicken and par-boil until quite tender. 
Pick over fresh mushrooms and rinse in clear cold water, 
enough if you have them, to cover the chicken, in a deep 
spider or shallow stew-pan. Put in a lump of butter, salt 
and pepper to suit taste. Fry down brown and serve hot. 

Note. — If there are more than two persons to sit down to 
this dish, it will be well to have more than one chicken. 
Chicken Fie. 

Stew chicken till tender, season with one-quarter lb. but- 
ter, salt and pepper; line the sides of a pudding-dish with 
a rich crust, pour in the stewed chicken and cover closely 
with a crust, first cutting a hole in the centre. Have ready 
a can of oysters ; heat the liquor, thicken with a little flour 
and water, and season with salt, pepper, and butter. When 
it comes to a boil, pour over the oysters, and, about twenty 
minutes before the pie is done, lift the top crust and put 
them in. 

Crnst for Chicken Pie. 

1 pint buttermilk ; 1 cup shortening, 1 teaspoonful of soda. 
Stewed Chicken witli Oysters. 

Season and stew a chicken in a quart of water until very 
tender; take it out on a hot dish and keep it warm ; then 
put into the liquor a lump of butter the size of an egg: 
mix a little flour and water smooth and make thick gravy; 
season well with pepper and salt and let it come to a boil. 
Have read}^ a quart of oysters picked over, and put them in 
without any liquor. Stir them round, and as soon as they 
are cooked, pour all over the chicken. 

Roast Turkey. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

In drawing, leave all the fat in the fowl, wash and rinse 
well, drying inside and out with a towel. For the stufiing 
of a turkey weighing from 20 to 25 pounds, allow from 75 
to 100 oysters with their liquor, one-half lb. butter, pepper, 
salt and sage to taste, with enough bread to mix with the 
other ingredients, two eggs. Boil the oyster liquor and 
strain it over the bread, add the seasoning, and if more 
moisture is needed, add boiling water. When this is cool, 
put in the oysters, taking care not to break them. If oysters 
are not used, chop the giblets with the stuffing. Unless the 
turkey is to be roasted the day it is stuffed, the dressing should 
be entirely cold. Baste turkej' frequently while baking. 
2 



24 POULTRY. 

Baked Cliicken. 

Mrs. E. H. Way. 

Cut the chicken into small pieces, and remove all the 
skin ; put it into a kettle with water enough to boil, to which 
add a little salt. When the chicken is almost done take it 
out of the kettle, roll each piece in flour, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, lay it in a dripping-pan, put a small piece 
of butter on each piece, and add sufficient boiling water to 
baste with. When broAvn make a gravy of the liquor the 
chicken was boiled in, with a little flour and an egg (if de- 
sired) well beaten ; pour it over the chicken and return to 
the oven for a few minutes, then serve. 

Chicken Lo.if. 

Mrs. Chamberlain, Geneva 0. 

Take two large full-grown chickens; cook as usual (salt 
pork in slices cooked with them improves the flavor) ; sea- 
son with pepper, salt and sage; when tender, chop all the 
meat, then add grated bread, one-half the bulk of chicken, 
pour in the thickened gravy, add three well-beaten eggs; 
bake one hour in moderate oven ; press with heavy weights 
while cooling; when cold slice. Ver\' nice for lunch, and 
is sufficient for thirty persons. 

Pressed Chicken. 

Miss Fanny Dean. 

Boil the chicken until tender; if there is more than one- 
half pint to a chicken, boil it down ; remove the meat from 
the bones; keep the light and dark separate; chop with 
two small slices of bread to each chicken ; season with but- 
ter, salt and pepper ; add the soup, take a narrow bread 
tin, place first the dark and then the light meat, press 
solid ; put in a cool place. When cold, warm the pan and 
turn it out on a meat board; it will slice nicely. Other 
meat can be pressed in the same way. 

Macaroni Tinihles. 

Mrs. McCall. 

The breast of four pounds chicken, whites of three eggs, 
one tablespoon melted butter, three tablespoons thick 
cream (or milk can be used), four tablespoons of the juice 
of the chicken ; the chicken should be boiled tender in as 
little water as necessary to cook it in; pepper and salt to 
taste, with a very little nutmeg; chop all fine and pass it 
through a sieve, then beat light with a spoon ; add a few 
drops of lemon juice; take one-fourth pound of macaroni 
boiled not very soft, throw it into cold water, then cut it ia 



POUETRT. 25 

pieces about one-fourth inch long, butter the cups, and 
stick the macaroni around and around to the edge of the 
cup; then pour in the mixture about two-thirds full; put 
a buttered paper over the top of each cup, and steam one- 
half hour; turn out when done on to a suitable dish, and 
pour over a drawn butter sauce, about as thick as rich 
cream. One tablespoon of sherry wine improves the sauce. 
The timbles, when well made, resemble little bee hives 
with honey cells, and are a pretty dish on a dinner table. 

Baked Chicken. 

Mrs. J. E. Allen. 

Take a young chicken, cut it up as for boiling, lay in a 
dripping pan and sprinkle with salt; spread over it a dress- 
ing, made by stirring butter and flour together until stiff 
enough to spread easily ; pour over it two-thirds teacup of 
water, and bake. It will cook nearly as quickly as pota- 
toes. When done, take out and pour in hot water, and stir 
until the dressing is thin enough. 



26 MEATS. 



MEATS. 

In selecting beef, choose that of a fine, smooth grain, of 
a bright red color and white fat. 

The sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs are the choicest cuts 
for a roast. Have the bones removed and the meat rolled, 
but have the butcher send the bones for soup. 

The flesh of good veal is firm and dry, and the joints 
stiff. 

The flesh of good mutton, or lamb, is a bright red, with 
the fat firm and white. 

If the meat of pork is j^oung, the lean will break on be- 
ing pinched. The fat will be white, soft and pulpy. 

Rules for Boiling Meat. 

All fresh meat should be put to cook in boiling water; 
then the outer part contracts, and the interna] juices are pre- 
served. For making soup, put on in cold water. All salt 
meat should be put on in cold water, that the salt may be 
extracted in cooking. In boiling meats, it is important to 
keep the water constantly boiling, otherwise the meat will 
absorb the water. Be careful to add boiling water, if more 
is needed. Remove the scum when it first begins to boil. 
Allow about twenty minutes for boiling for each pound of 
fresh meat. The more gently meat boils the more tender 
it will be. 

To broil meat well, have your gridiron hot before you 
put the meat on. 

Broil steak without salting. 

In roasting beef, it is necessary to have a brisk fire. 
Baste often. Season when nearly done. 

To prevent meat from scorching during roasting, place a 
basin of water in the oven; the steam generated prevents 
scorching, and makes the meat cook better. 

Frying Meats. 

Frying is often a convenient mode of cookery. It may 
be performed by a fire which will not do for roasting or 
boiling. For general purposes, and especially for fish, pork 
fat is preferable to lard. To know when the fat is of a 
proper heat — according to what you are to fry — is the real 
great secret of frying. 

To fry fish, potatoes, or anything that is watery, the fire 



MEATS. 27 

must be very clear, and the fat quite hot ; which you may 
be perfectly sure of when it has done hissing, and is still. 
If the fat is not ver}' hot, you cannot fry fish, either to a 
good color, or firm and crisp. 

Beefsteak— Scalloped. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Chop very fine raw steak ; butter a tin ; place in it 
a layer of the chopped meat ; then a layer of bread- 
crumbs; on this bits of butter, pepper and salt; then an- 
other layer of meat and bread, pepper and salt; beat one 
egg thoroughly, add one-half teacupful of milk and one- 
half cupful of water; pour carefully over the top; stick 
bits of butter thickly over the top ; bake one-half to three- 
quarters of an bour. Cover the dish until steamed through, 
then remove and brown. 

Broiled Stejik. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 

Grease the gridiron or broiler with pork or suet ; have 
it hot ; put on the steak over hot coals ; cover. In a mo- 
ment, when the steak is colored, turn it over. Watch and 
turn frequently. Do not let out the juice by sticking the 
fork in it; remove to a hot ptlater; sprinkle well with salt 
and pepper, and butter well ; set platter in the oven a 
few moments to let butter soak in well. The juice of a 
good steak is inside, not in the gravy dish. 

Baked Steak. 

Mrs. S. A. ^orthway. 

Take a tender round-steak, cut thick, rub on salt and 
pepper, prepare stale bread like stuffing for turkey, spread 
over the steak, roll tightly, and fasten with skewers ; bake 
until tender. This is very nice sliced, and eaten cold. 

Mushrooms with Steak. 

Mrs. J. A. Howells. 

Cook steak in ordinary way; cover top of steak thickly 
with mushrooms ; season with pepper, butter and salt to 
taste ; cover closely, and steam ten minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. 

Beefsteak and Onions. 

Prepare the steak as usual ; while it is broiling put three 
or four chopped onions in a frying-pan with a little beef drip- 
ping or butter ; stir and shake briskly till they are done 
andjbegin to brown; dish your steak and lay the onions 
thickly on top; cover and let it stand five or six minutes, 



28 MEATS. 

that the onions may impart their flavor to the meat. In 
heljDing your guests, inquire if they will take onions with 
the slices of steak put on their plates. 

Roast Beef. 

Wash the joint and wipe dry; then place it on a pan, 
with the fat and skin side up ; put in a hot oven, and when 
the heat has started enough of the oil of the fat to baste 
with, open the oven, and drawing the pan toward you, take 
up a spoonful of grease and pour over the meat for a few 
times, closing the door immediately. This should he re- 
peated four or five times during the process of roasting. 
When nearly done, sprinkle with salt and baste. Have 
ready a warm platter, and when the meat is dished, drain 
off the grease, carefully keeping back the rich, brown juice 
which has exuded from the meat. 

This remaining gravy leave in the pan, placing it on the 
stove and adding about a gill of water ; let it come to a 
boil, and then pour it over the meat. If a made gravy is 
preferred, more water should be added and a little flour. 
Salt hardens and toughens meat ; therefore, in beef and 
mutton it should not be put on till it is cooked. It is also 
necessary to have the oven hot in order that the heat may 
quickly sear the surface, which will prevent the juice from 
escaping. It is obvious, if water is put in the pan, this 
quick searing can not be effected ; water can not be raised 
above a certain temperature (its boiling point), while fat 
is susceptible of a much greater degree of heat, and there- 
fore, as a basting agent, is preferable. Beef roasted before 
a fire has a flavor inexpressibly finer than that done in an 
oven. — Home Messenger Receipt Book. 

Beef Loaf. 

Mrs. S. A. North way. 

One and one-half pounds of lean steak chopped fine, two 
eggs, two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of salt, one 
teaspoon of pepper, one small cup of rolled crackers ; mix 
well, form in a loaf, put bits of butter on top and bake. A 
fine relish for lunch or tea. 

Prepared Meat. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

Three pounds of steak chopped fine, two slices of bread 
well buttered, one teaspoon of salt, one-half of pepper, one 
teaspoon of sage, two eggs ; mix well ; make in a roll, and 
bake; when cold, slice. Very nice for tea or lunch. 



MEATS. 29 

Beef RecliaulFe. 

Mrs. C. S. Simonds. 

Chop cold steak or roast; add gravy if you have it, if 
not, butter; season with salt and pepper ; put in a sauce- 
pan or basin on the stove with a little boiling water; 
thicken slightly. When thoroughly heated spread upon 
hot buttered toast, and serve for breakfast. 

Sweet-Breads. 

Mrs. C. S. Simonds. 

When they come into your possession put them immedi- 
ately into cold Vt^ater, ice water if you have it ; let them 
lie a few minutes ; then put in boiling water ; boil twenty 
minutes ; put them again into very cold water ; when per- 
fectly cold, take out and cut into slices one-fourth of an 
inch thick ; dip in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry 
in butter. 

Sweet-Breads Stewed. 

Wash, remove all the bits of skin, soak in salt and water 
one hour, then parboil ; when half cooked take from the 
fire, cut into small pieces, stew in a little water till tender, 
add a piece of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a teasponful of 
flour, and boil at once. Serve on toast very hot. Another 
way is to prepare as above and serve with tomato sauce. 

Rissoles, (or Meat Balls.) 

Miss Ada Simonds. 

Hash cold mutton, beef or chicken, add one well beaten 
egg and a few bread crumbs ; stir in the meat gravy and 
make into little round cakes; fry in butter. 

Meat Croquettes. 

Use cold roast beef or steak : chop it fine ; season with 
pepper and salt; add ^ the quantity of bread-crumbs, and 
moisten with a little milk. Have your hands floured; rub 
the meat into balls, dip them into beaten egg, then into 
fine pulverized cracker, and fry in butter ; garnish with 
parsley. 

Pounded Beef. 

Boil a stew of twelve pounds of meat until it falls readi- 
ly from the bone; pick it to pieces; mash gristle and all 
very fine and pick out all the hard bits. Set the liquor 
away till cool, then take off" all the fat; return it to the 
stove and boil down to a pint and a half. While hot return 
the meat to it; add pepper and salt and any spice you 
choose. Let it boil a few times, stirrins; all the while. 



30 MEATS. 

Put into a mould or deep dish to cool. Use cold and cut in 
thin slices for tea or warm it for breakfast. 

Beef Heart. 

Wash carefully and stuff nicely, with dressing as for 
turkey; roast it about H hours and serve with the gravy, 
which should be thickened with some of the dressing. It 
is very nice hashed. 

Beef Liver. 

Slice the liver and pour boiling water over it; wipe dry 
and cut it into very small fiieces. Fr}' slices of fat salt 
pork until brown ; take out the pork and fry the liver in 
the fat ; cook thoroughly. When done pour a little water 
over the liver and thicken with a little flour and water, 
mixed smooth. Salt to taste. 

To Boil a Tongue. 

Soak it all night before using, and be careful to washout 
the salt, which is put into various crevices to preserve it. 
Boil it in plenty of M'ater from two and a half to three 
hours. Remove the skin before sending it to the table, and 
garnish with parsley. 

Deviled Beef. 

Take slices of cold roast beef, lay them on hot coals and 
broil ; season with pepper and salt and serve while hot, 
with a small lump of butter on each piece. 

Dried Beef in Cream. 

Shave your beef very fine ; pour over it boiling water ; let 
it stand for a few minutes ; pour this off and put on good 
rich cream ; let it come to a boil. If you have not cream, 
use milk and butter and thicken with flour. Season with 
pepper and serve on toast or not, as you like. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Shave dried beef very fine and put in a hot frying-pan 
with a little butter; shake and stir until heated through. 
Season with pepper and serve in this way, or beat an egg 
light and stir in just before serving. 

Serambled Eggs with Beef. 

Dried beef chipped very fine. Have some butter in the 
pan and when liot put in the beef; heat for a few minutes, 
stirring to prevent burning ; break some eggs into a bowl, 
season, stir into the beef and cook a few minutes. 



MEATS. .31 

Minced Beef. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

3^ lbs. raw beef chopped fine. 3 eggs. 6 soda crackers 
rolled, f cup sweet milk, salt and pepper. Make in a loaf 
and bake 1^ hours. 

Meat Pie with Potato Crust. Very nice. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Remnants of all kinds of cold meat may be used for this. 
Remove all gristle and chop fine, season with salt and 
plenty of pepper. Put a layer of this in a buttered pud- 
ding dish, spread over it some catsup or prepared mustard 
if you like, then a layer of mashed cold potato, stick bits of 
butter all over this, a layer of meat again — and so on until 
ready for the crust. Make a crust, — allowing for 3 cups 
mashed potatoes — f cup sweet milk, 1 well beaten egg, a 
pinch of salt. Mix well, spread on top of meat, stick bits 
of butter all over it. Bake to a delicate brown ^ or three 
quarters of au hour. 

Meat Pie. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

Tak roast beef or steak, cut fine and lay with pepper,'salt 
in bottom of dish, (an onion if one likes,) over tbis pour a 
cup of tomatoes and a little more pepper; over the top 
spread a thick layer of mashed potatoes. Bake in slow 
oven. 

Meat or Chicken Dumplings. 

Mrs. G. C. Lewis, Mt. Vernon. 

1 pint of flour with 1^ teaspoon baking powder stirred 
through. One egg and one cup of sweet milk. Make all 
into a batter and drop by the spoonful into the kettle with 
the meat or chicken, and boil not more than twenty min- 
utes. After the meat and dumplings are removed, thicken 
the gravy. 

Roast Lamb. 

Choose a hind quarter of lamh, stuff it with fine bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt, butter, and a little sage. Sew the flap 
firmly to keep in place, rub the outside with s^lt, pepper, 
butter, a little of the stuffing, and roast two hours. Eat 
with mint sauce. 

Breaded Lamb Cliops. 

Grate plenty of stale bread, season with salt and pepper, 
have ready some well-beaten egg, have a spider with hot 
lard ready, take the chops one by one, dip into the egg, 
then into the bread crumbs; repeat it, as it will be found 



32 MEATS. 

an improvement; then lay separately into the boiling lard, 
fry brown, and then turn. To be eaten with currant jelly 
or grape catsup. 

Cutlets a la Duchesse. 

Cut the neck of lamb (about two pounds) into cutlets? 
trim them and scrape the top of the bone clean, fry in but- 
ter and set away to cool. Put a piece of butter into a stew- 
pan with three mushrooms and a sprig of parsley, chop 
fine ; stir over the fire until very hot, then pour over a cupful 
of white sauce — the yolks of three of four eggs well beaten. 
Stir constantly until as thick as cream, but do not let it 
boil. Dip each cutlet into it, covering thickly with the 
sauce, again set away to cool. Then egg and bread-crumb 
them. Fry lightly. 

To Fry Lamb Steaks. 

Dip each piece into well-beaten egg, cover with bread 
crumbs or corn meal, and fry in butter or new lard. Mash- 
ed potatoes and boiled rice are a necessary accompaniment. 
It is very nice to thicken the gravy with flour and butter, 
adding a little lemon juice, and pour it hot upon the steaks, 
and place the rice in spoonfuls around the dish to garnish it. 

Spiced Lamb (Cold). 

Boil a leg of lamb, adding to the water a handful of 
cloves and two or three sticks of cinnamon broken up. Boil 
four hours. 

Stewed Lamb Chops. 

Cut a loin of mutton into chops, cover with water and 
stew them until tender, keeping well covered except skim- 
ming. When done season with salt and pepper, and thick- 
en the gravy with a little flour, stirred until smooth, with 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Have pieces of bread 
previously toasted, and pour the stew over them. 

Mutton Chops. 

Trim neatly, season, and dip each chop into a beaten 
egg, and then in cracker-crumbs; put into the oven in a 
dripping-pan with two spoonfuls of hutter and a little water; 
baste frequent!}^ and bake until well browned. 

Irish Stew. 

Take mutton chops, cover well with water, and let them 
come to a boil; pour this off and add more water; then a 
lump of butter the size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one teacupful of milk, season, potatoes, and two small 
onions. Boil until the potatoes are done. 



MEATS. 33 

Rag'oiit. 

Take pieces of mutton veal, beef, or rabbit, cut into any 
size or shape desired; heat a tablespoonful of^drippings or 
lard in a saucepan, and when liot, fry the meat until al- 
most done. Take out the meat and add a teaspoonful of 
flour, brown it, add a little lukewarm water, mix it well 
and then add a quart of boilinp; water; season with salt 
and cayenne pepper, add the meat, three or four onions, 
and six or seven potatoes, partiaU_y boiled before being put 
into the ragout; cover closely and stew until the vegeta- 
bles are done. Take out the meat and vegetables and skim 
off all the fat from the gravy, season more if necessary and 
pour over the ragout and serve. 

Spiced Veal. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Chop three pounds of veal steak and one thick slice of 
fat salt pork as fine as sausage meat ; add three Boston 
crackers, rolled fine, three well beaten eggs, one-half tea- 
cupful of tomato catsup, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
fine salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, and one grated lemon. 
Mould into the form of a loaf of bread in small dripping- 
pan; cover with one rolled cracker, and haste often with a 
teacupful of hot water and two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter (this makes it moist) ; bake three hours ; make the 
day before using; slice very thin and garnish with slices of 
lemon and bits of parsley. 

Potted Teal. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Mix well together three pounds of raw veal well chopped, 
eight tablespoonfuls of rolled crackers, three tablespoonfuls 
of cream or milk, one tablespoonful of pepper, one table- 
spoonful of salt, one grated nutmeg, and two eggs ; fill a 
bread-pan, butter the top, sprinkle with more cracker, and 
bake three hours. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Trim off all fat, flatten with hammer, dip in beaten egg, 
then in Indian meal ; have the butter hot, but not scorched, 
salt while frying. Fry until well done, adding butter ta 
prevent burning. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

Cut veal steak into pieces convenient for handling ; dip 
in beaten egg, then in flour, and fry in butter ; cook slowly, 



34 MEATS. 

as veal needs to be cooked through; when done, remove 
from the spider, and make a gravy in the same with milk. 

Veal Scallop. 

Chop some cold roast or stewed veal very fine ; put a 
layer on tlie bottom of a ])udding-dish well buttered ; season 
with pepper and salt. Next have a layer of fine-powdered 
crackers ; wet with a little milk or some of the gravy from 
the meat. Proceed until the dish is full. Spread over all 
a thick layer of cracker-crumbs, seasoned with salt, and 
wet into a paste with milk and two beaten eggs. Stick 
bits of butter all over it, cover closely, and bake half an 
hour; then remove the cover and bake long enough to 
brown nicely. Do not get it too dry. 

Croquette. 

Take cold veal, chicken, or sweet-breads, a little of each, 
or separately; cut very fine a little fat and lean of ham, 
half the quantity of the whole of bread-crumbs, two eggs, 
butter the size of an egg, pepper, salt, and a little mustard. 
Knead like sausage meat, adding a little cream; form in 
any shape, dip in egg, and then roll in cracker-crumbs; fry 
in laixl until a light brown. Dr}^ them in the oven. Cel- 
ery or mushrooms are an improvement. 

Beef Omelet or Veal Loaf. 

Mrs. W. H. Euggles. 

One pound of chopped steak, two eggs, piece of butter 
size of a hickory nut, one-half cup of rolled crackers, pep- 
per, salt and sage ; mix thoroughh'^ and make into a roll; 
steam one-half hour and bake one-half hour. 
Minced Veal. 

Mrs. E. F. Abell. 

To three pounds of veal chopped fine, add six grated 
crackers, one egg, a piece of butter the size of an egg, sea- 
soned with nutmeg or sweet thyme, as you prefer; pepper 
and salt ; make it into a loaf, place it in a pan lined with 
pork, lay over the top thin slices of pork, put a little water 
dn the pan, and bake two hours. 

Veal Pie. 

Line a deep tin pan with a good crust ; parboil the meat, 
and put it in, season high ; nearly fill the pan Avith water 
in which the meat was parboiled. Sprinkle flour over, add 
a piece of butter, and cover with a tolerably thick crust. 
Chicken, clam or oyster may be made in the same manner. 
Oysters must not be cooked before putting into the pie. 



MEATS. 35 



To mix Saus.age. 

Mrs. Wm. Gibson. 



3 pounds of salt to the 100 weight. ^ pound pepper. ^ 
pound sage. 2 ounces ginger. 

Sausage. 

Mra. B. F. Wade. 

36 lbs of meat, 48 teaspoonfuls of sage, 24 of pepper, 24 of 
salt. 

To Season Sausages. 

Mrs. Thomas Fricker. 

To 10 lbs. meat add 1 heaping tablespoon pepper, 2 of salt 
and 3 of sage, and mix thoroughly. 

Sausage. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

1 heaping teaspoon salt, ^ spoon pepper, ^ spoon sage, ^ 
spoon summer savory, to 1 pound meat. 

Bologna Sausage (cooked). 

Two pounds lean beef; two pounds lean veal; two 
pounds lean pork; two pounds salt pork — not smoked; one 
pound beef suet ; ten teaspoonfuls powdered mace ; four 
pounds marjoram, parsley, savor}^ and thyme — mixed; two 
teaspoonfuls cayenne pepper, and the same of black ; one 
grated nutmeg ; one teaspoonful cloves ; one minced onion ; 
salt to taste. Chop or grind the meat and suet; season, 
and stuff into beef-skins; tie these up; prick each in sev- 
eral places to allow the escape of the steam; put into hot — 
not boiling water, and heat gradually to the boiling point. 
Cook slowly for one hour ; take out the skins and lay them 
to dry in the sun, upon clean, sweet straw or hay. Rub 
the outside of the skins with oil or melted butter, and hang 
in a cool, dry cellar. If j^ou mean to keep it more than a 
week, rub pepper or pounded ginger upon the outside. 
You can wash it off before sending to the table. This is 
eaten without further cooking. Cut in round slices and 
lay sliced lemon around the edge of the dish, as many like 
to squeeze a few drops upon the sausage before eating. 

Scrapple. 

Take hogs heads, or any part will do, have the meat half 
fat and half lean, boil it until very tender, then chop very 
fine, put back in same water, add salt, pepper and summer 
savory to suit taste, boil altogether and thicken with corn 
meal, when cool cut in slices and fry as mush in butter. 



36 MEATS. 

Ham Toast. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

Take pieces of cooked ham chopped fine; to each table- 
spoonful add yolk of 1 egg, and 1 tablespoonful sweet cream; 
salt and pepper ; heat this mixture and spread on hot but- 
tered toast ; Serve quickly. Boiled tongue is equally good 
prepared in this way. 

Ham Toast. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Mince cold ham finely, to 1 pint of mince put 2 table- 
spoons of cream or fresh rich milk ; boil this 5 minutes, 
prepare well buttered slices of toast : and spread the mince 
on them, strew over this well grated bread crumbs, a little 
parsley, and some small pieces of butter. Brown in a quick 
oven and serve hot. 

Baked Ham. 

A ham of 16 pounds to be boiled three hours, then skin 
and rub in half a pound of brown sugar, cover with bread- 
crumbs and bake two hours. 

Pork Steaks, Broiled. 

Trim, season and roll them in melted butter and bread- 
crumbs ; broil them over a moderate fire until thoroughly 
done. Make a sauce of five tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 
half a teacupful of stock ; let it boil, and thicken with a 
little flour. Strain, and then add pepper and some pickles 
chopped fine. 

To Fry Apples and Pork Chops. 

Season the chops with salt and pepper and a little pow- 
dered sage and sweet marjoram ; dip them into beaten egg 
and then into beaten bread-crumbs. Fry about twenty 
minutes, or until they are done. Put them on a hot dish ; 
pour off part of the gravy into another pan, to make a 
gravy to serve with them, if you choose. Then fry apples 
which you have sliced about two-thirds of an inch thick, 
cutting them [around the apple so that the core is in the 
center of each piece. When they are browned on one side 
and partly cooked, turn them carefully with a pancake 
turner, and let them finish cooking; dish around the chops 
or on a separate dish. 

Spare Ribs Broiled. 

Crack the bones and broil over a clear fire, taking care 
that the fire is not hot enough to scorch them. 



MEATS. 37 

Mint Sauce. 

Wash the mint very clean; pick the leaves from the 
stalk, and chop them fine ; pour onto them vinegar enough 
to moisten the mint well ; add fine sugar to sweeten. 
Celery Sauce. 

Pick and wash two heads of celery ; cut them into pieces 
one inch long, and stew them in a pint of water with one 
teaspoonful of salt, until the celery is tender. Rub a large 
spoonful of butter and a spoonful of flour well together; stir 
this into a pint of cream ; put in the celery, and let it boil 
up once. Serve hot with boiled poultry. 
Tomato Sauce. 

Stew one-half dozen tomatoes with a little chopped pars- 
ley; salt and pepper to taste; strain, and when it com- 
mences to boil add a spoonful of flour, stirred smooth with 
a tablespoonful of butter. When it boils take up. 
Tomato Sauce. 

Stew one can of tomatoes, one small onion, for twenty 
minutes, and 'then strain through a sieve. Put an ounce 
and a half of butter into a saucepan, and wheii it boils, 
dredge in an ounce and a half of flour. When thoroughly 
cooked, pour in the tomatoes. 

Tomato Sauce. 

One can of tomatoes boiled down and strained ; rub to- 
gether one heaping teaspoonful of flour, one tablespoonful 
of butter, and a little salt, with a very little cayenne pep- 
per, and stir into the tomatoes; then let all come to a boil. 
Cranberry Sauce. 

One quart of cranberries, one (^uart of water, and one 
pound of white sugar ; make a sirup of the water and sugar. 
After washing the berries clean, and picking out all poor 
ones, drop them into the boiling sirup, let them cook from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. They are very nice strained. 

Egg Sauce. 

Three ounces of butter, beaten with one ounce of flour; 
stir into it one pint of boiling water; salt and pepper. 
Cook fifteen minutes; pour into sauce-boat, having hard- 
boiled eggs, sliced or chopped, in it. 
Oyster Sauce. 

One pint of oysters boiled three or four minutes in their 
own liquor. Stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in a 
spoonful of flour, the juice of half a lemon with pepper and 
salt to taste. Heat a teacupful of milk, pour into the 
oysters and turn at once into the sauce-boat. 



38 - SALADS. 



SALADS. 

Chicken Salad. 

Mrs. E. H. Way. 

Take two chickens, boil until tender; when cold, skin 
them, picking the meat from the bones, and chop fine; use 
about one-third more celery than chicken. 

For the Dressing'. 

Three eggs and one-half cup of butter ; rub well together, 
add black and cayenne pepper and mustard; pour on this 
mixture one pint of vinegar ; let it boil and cool before 
putting on the chicken and celery. Boil six eggs hard, 
chop the whites, rub the yolks to a cream, put them in the 
dressing before pouring over the chicken. 

Cliicken Salad. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

All the meat of a tender chicken, two-thirds of its weight 
of celery. For dressing, yolks of two raw and two hard 
boiled eggs, one large tablespoonful of dry mustard, stirring 
in one direction ; add a little sweet oil until one-third of a 
bottle is added ; juice of one lemon, then more oil, in all 
two-thirds of a bottle, a little vinegar, a teaspoonful or 
more of salt ; make very slowly, and stir a long time ; will 
be very white and nice, very nice for salad of any kind. 

Cliicken Salad. 

Mrs. J. A. Howells. 

Boil until very tender three chickens and one pound of 
veal ; chop all together until fine ; make a dressing of the 
yolks of four eggs boiled twenty minutes ; rub smooth ; add 
three teaspoonfuls of English mustard, two teaspoonfuls of 
salt, three tablespoonful s of salad oil, one tablespoonful of 
white sugar, two-thirds of a pint of strong vinegar ; chop 
fine and add three-fourths the bulk of celery. 

In making chicken salad one-third veal boiled and 
chopped with the chicken, can be used with good effect. 
When celery cannot be. got, crisp cabbage or lettuce, sea- 
soned with celery seed pounded, or celery vinegar can be 
substituted. 

Salmon Salad. 

For a pound can of California salmon, garnished with 
lettuce, make a dressing of one small teacup of vinegar, 



SALADS. 39 

butter half the size of an egg, one teaspoon of Colman's 
mustard, one-half teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, two eggs; when 
cold, add one-half teacup of cream and pour over the sal- 
mon. 

Sydney Smith's Receipt for Salad Dressing. 
Two boiled potatoes, strained through a kitchen sieve, 
Softness and smoothness to the salad give ; 
Of mordant mustard take a single spoon — 
Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; 
Yet deem it not, though man of taste, a fault. 
To add a double quantity of salt. 
Four times the spoon, with oil of Lucca crown, 
And twice with vinegar procured from town; 
True taste requires it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. 
And, scarce suspected, animate the whole ; 
And lastly, in the flavored compound toss 
A magic teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. 
Oh, great and glorious ! oh, herbaceous meat ! 
'T would tempt the dying anchorite to eat ; 
Back to the world he 'd turn his weary soul, 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl. 

Cabbage^ Salad. 

Mrs, N. E. French. 

Cut the cabbage fine, and salt to your taste, put sufl&cient 
vinegar on to moisten it, beat the yolks of 2 eggs, and jt 
pint of milk, one teaspoonful of mustard, one of sugar, pep- 
per to suit taste. Set it on the stove and stir until it 
thickens, when cold pour it on the cabbage. 

Egg Salad. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

When cold cut twelve hard-boiled eggs in halves, remove 
the yolks, keeping the whites unbroken, rub the yolks fine 
and smooth as possible, work in a tablespoon of butter, sea- 
son to taste, add a little celery or lettuce cut very fine, and 
two small teaspoons of mustard wet with vinegar, mix all 
together into a smooth paste, if not moist enough add more 
vinegar, fill the whites, garnish with celery or parsley tops, 
and it makes a nice dish for tea. 



40 GAME. 



GAME. 

Broiled Venison Steak. 

Broil quickly over a clear fire, and when sufiiciently 
done pour over two tables poonfuls of currant jelly, melted 
with a piece of butter. Pepper and salt to season. Ea-t 
while hot, on hot plates. 

To Cook Venison. 

Broil as you would a beefsteak, rare. Have ready a gravy 
of butter, pepper and salt, and a very little water. Heat 
the gravy without boiling it. Score the steak all over, put 
it in the gravy and cover tight; keep hot enough to steam 
the meat, and send in a covered dish to table. 
Pigeon Compote. 

Truss six pigeons as for boiling. Grate the crumbs of a 
small loaf of bread, scrape one pound of fat bacon, chop 
thyme, parsley, and onion and lemon — peel fine — and sea- 
son with salt and pepper; mix it up with two eggs; put 
this force-meat into the craws of the pigeons, lard the 
breasts and fry brown ; place them in a stewpan with some 
beef stock and stew them three-quarters of an hour, thick- 
en with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Serve with force- 
nieat balls around the dish "and strain the gravy on to the 
pigeons. 

To Roast Wild Fowl. 

The flavor is best preserved without stuffing. Put pep- 
per, salt and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require 
much less dressing than tame. They should be served of a 
fine color with a rich brown gravy. To take o the fishy 
tastp, which wild fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt 
and hot water into the dripping pan, and baste them for 
the first ten minutes with this, then take away the pan 
and baste constantly with butter. 

To Roast Partridges, Plieasants or Quails. 

Pluck, singe, draw and truss them, season with salt and 
pepper, roast for about half an hour in a brisk oven, bast- 
ing often with butter. When done place on a dish togeth- 
er with breadcrumbs fried brown and arranged in small 
heaps. Gravy should be served in a tureen apart. 
To Broil Quail or Woodcock. 

After dressing, split down the back, sprinkle with salt 



.GAME. 41 

and pepper, and lay them on a gridiron, the inside down. 
Broil slowly at first. Serve with cream gravy. 
To Roast Wild Duck or Teal. 

After dressing, soak them over night in salt and water, 
to draw out the fishy taste. Then in the morning put 
them into fresh water, changing several times before roast- 
ing. Stuff" or not, as desired. Serve with currant jelly. 
Pigeon Pie. 

Dress and wash clean, split down the back, and then 
proceed as for chicken pie. 

Roast Pigeons. 

When cleaned and ready for roasting, fill the bird with a 
stuffing of bread crumbs, a spoonful of butter, a little salt 
and nutmeg, and three oysters to each bird (some prefer 
chopped apple). They must be well basted with melted 
butter, and require thirty minutes' careful cooking. In 
the autumn they are best, and should be full grown. 
To Roast Pigeons. 

They should be dressed while fresh. If young, they will 
be ready for roasting in twelve hours. Dress carefully, and 
after making clean, wipe dry and put into each bird a 
small piece of butter dipped in caj^enne. Truss the wings 
over the back and roast in a quick oven, keeping them 
constantly basted with butter. Serve with brown gravy. 
Dish them with young water-cresses. 
Fried Rabbit. 

After the rabbit has been thoroughly cleaned and washed, 
put it into boiling water and let boil for about ten minutes; 
drain, and when cold, cut it into joints, dip into beaten 
egg, and then into fine bread-crumbs, seasoned with salt 
and pepper. When all are ready fry them in butter over 
a moderate fire fifteen minutes, thicken the gravy with an 
ounce of butter and a small teaspoonful of flour, give it a 
minute's boil, stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream, dish the 
rabbit, pour the sauce under it, and serve quickly. 
Stewed Rabbit. 

Skin and clean the rabbit, cut into pieces, put one-fourth 
of a pound of butter into a stewpan and turn the pieces of 
rabbit about in it until nicely browned ; take out the meat, 
add one pint of boiling water to the butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour stirred to a paste in cold water, one tablespoon- 
ful of salt, and a little grated onion if liked; let this boil 
up, add the meat, stew slowly till the rabbit is tender. 
Serve hot. 



42 VEQETABLES. 



•VEGETABLES. 

Have your vegetables fresh as possible. Wash them 
thoroughly. Lay them in cold water until ready to use 
them. 

Vegetables should be put to cook in boiling water and 
salt. Never let them stand after coming off the fire; put 
them instantly into a colander over a pot of boiling water, 
if you have to keep them back from dinner. 

reas, beans and asparagus, if young, will cook in twenty- 
five or thirty minutes. They should be boiled in a good 
deal of salt water. 

Cauliflower should be wrapped in a cloth when boiled, 
and served with drawn butter. Potato water is thought to 
be unhealthy; therefore do not boil potatoes in soup, but 
in another vessel, and add them to it when cooked. 

A lump of bread about the size of a billiard ball, tied up 
in a linen bag and placed in the pot in which greens are 
boiling, will absorb the gasses which often times send such 
an unpleasant odor to the regions above. 

Lhna Beans. 

Shell, wash, and put into boiling water with a little salt; 
when boiled tender, drain and season them, and either 
dress with cream, or large lump of butter, and let simmer 
for a few moments. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes quite thin, place in a shallow 
pan, cover with milk, stir them so they will not burn, keep 
them covered closely ; for potatoes enough for 6 persons, 
mix 1 teaspoon of flour with a little cold milk to a smooth 
paste, add this and let them cook thoroughly for 5 minutes, 
then add salt and butter, do not let them stand over the 
fire long after the salt is added as the milk will curdle. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Put a pint of milk in a frying-pan ; add a piece of butter 
the size of a butter-nut, some salt and pepper; let it boil; 
take a heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch, mix with a little 
cold milk, add, stirring till it thickens; have six or seven 
good-sized peeled potatoes, (boiled or baked the day before,) 
cut them in small pieces, put all together; let cook fifteen 
minutes, stirring to prevent burning. 



VSQETABLES. 43 

Potato Pufif. 

2 large cups of cold mashed potato, 2 tablespoons melted 
butter beaten to a white cream, then add 2 well-beaten 
eggs, 1 teacup of cream or milk and little salt. Beat well, 
pour into deep dish, and bake in quick oven a nice brown. 

Saratoga Chips. 

Pare and slice on a slaw cutter raw potatoes into cold 
water, then spread them between folds of cloth until dry, 
and fry a few at a time in boiling lard, salt as they are tak- 
en out. Very crisp and nice. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Potatoes in the spring begin to shrivel and should be 
soaked in cold water several hours before cooking. Put 
them over the fire in cold water (Avithout salt), and, when 
done, drain ofl" the water, returning them to the fire for a 
minute or two, but not long enough to endanger burning ; 
then throw in a little salt; take hold of the handle and 
toss the kettle in such a way that the potatoes will be 
thrown up and down. When they look white and floury 
they are ready to dish for the table. New potatoes should 
always be put into boiling water, and it is better to pre- 
pare them only just in time for cooking. — Home Messenger 
Receipt Booh. 

Fried Corn. 
Mrs. J. A. Howells. 

For a family of five, take one dozen plump ears of sweet 
corn, with a thin sharp knife cut off the top of the kernels, 
then scrape all the pulp and juice from the cob. Take a 
thin small slice of salt pork, cut into small bits and fry to 
a crisp, put the corn into this, season with pepper and salt, 
and fry twenty minutes. * 

Corn Oysterg. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

2 dozen ears of corn ; 1 tablespoon butter ; 1 egg, pepper 
and salt; \ teacup sweet milk. 

Use only the pulp of the corn, pressing it out from the 
skin with a fork. Beat the egg, mix and bake. 

Corn Oyster Cakes. 

Miss Ada Simonds. 

Take 4 or 5 ears soft sweet corn ; run a knife through 
each row of kernels and press out the contents ; add two 
beaten eggs, a little salt and enough flour to make the bat- 
ter thick ; then fry as other pancakes. 



44 



VEGETABLES. 



Baked Beans. 

Mrs. Jas. Whitmore. 

Look over at night 1 quart of beans, cover them with 
plenty of water, and let them stand until morning. Then 
take them from the water, and put into a gallon crock. 
Lay on top a piece of fat salt pork 3 inches square, gash 
the rind, add one teaspoonful molasses, J teas poonful soda, 
and water enough to cover. Bake slowly five hours, occa- 
sionally adding a little water. 

Baked Pork and Beans. 

Mrs. E. A. Sheldon. 

Soak beans over night, place in iron kettle with piece of 
pork in center, cover with water and a snug lid; cook 5 
hours in a moderate oven, as the water boils off fill up, till 
an hour before using, then remove the lid and brown them. 

Baked Cabbage. 

Cook as for boiled cabbage, drain and let get cold, chop 
fine, add two beaten eggs, tablespoon butter, pepper, salt, 
three tablespoons cream, stir well and bake in buttered 
dish till brown. Serve hot. 

Cheese Straws. 

Mrs. Bostwick. 

I pound of grated cheese, ^ pound flour, 2 oz. butter, a 
little salt, a pinch of black pepper; moisten with water 
sufficient to roll very thin, cut like straws, bake slow, they 
can be twisted three together if preferred. 

Salsify. 

Wash and scrape the roots, and unless they are to be 
cooked immediately, keep them covered with water, as they 
blacken very soon. Slice and boil, letting the water boil 
out when they are tender. Make a gravy over them with 
milk, or better still, cream, season with butter, salt and 
pepper, thicken to the consistency of cream, and dish in 
saucers. Or you may serve on toast if preferred. Some 
slices of dried beef added will give a richer flavor. 

How to Cook "String' Beans." 

"German wax" are the best, as they need no stringing — 
simply removing each end and cutting into short pieces 
and boil for two or more hours, as long cooking improves 
their flavor. After boiling a few minutes add a teaspoon 
or more of soda, and when the beans are tender, pour off" 
that water, and for the remainder of the cooking use as lit- 
tle water as possible, salting a little while before the cream, 



VEGETABLES. 45 

or milk and butter is added, and serve soon as that is hot — 
never allowing the milk to boil. 

Baked Egg Plant. 

Cut in halves a nice smooth egg plant; scoop out the 
center, leaving with the skin about one-third of an inch ; 
chop the inside of the egg plant very fine, two ripe toma- 
toes, one onion, some bread-crumbs, a little parsley, and 
green pepper — onion and pepper to be chopped separately 
very fine — salt, butter, and very little pepper; mix very 
smooth, put in the shell, butter on top, and bake about one- 
half hour. 

Asparagus. 

Cut up the stalks in half inch lengths discarding the 
tough ends; cover with boiling and cook twenty-five min- 
utes : do not pour away the water unless you have too much; 
season highly with butter salt and pepper. Spread upon 
hot buttered toast and serve immediately. 

Another way to prepare the same vegetable: — When boiled 
soft, pour off the water and add one or more teacupfuls of 
milk, according to the quantity; let it come again to the 
boiling point; season with salt, pepper and butter, and 
serve in sauce plates. 

Fried Egg Plant. 

Pare and slice them, then sprinkle each slice with salt 
and let them stand for about one hour with a weight' on 
them, then dip into egg well beaten, then flour and fry 
light brown in lard and butter. 

Turnips. 

Pare and cut into pieces ; put them into boiling water 
well salted, and boil until tender; drain thoroughly and 
then mash and add a piece of butter, pepper, and salt to 
taste, and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Stir until they are 
thoroughly mixed, and serve. 

E scalloped Onions. 

Boil till tender 6 large onions, separate them with a 
spoon, then place in a pudding dish a layer of onions, then 
layer of bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, butter, 
and moistened with milk. Set in the oven and brown. 
Macaroni with Cheese. 

Boil macaroni in water with a little salt J of an hour, 
then drain off water and add milk, and boil till done. 
Cover pudding dish with layer of macaroni with butter, 
then grated cheese, bread-crumbs, pepper, butter, and thus 
alternately until full. Bake 15 minutes in quick oven and 
serve hot. 



46 VEGETABLES. 

Cauliflower. 

Trim off outside leaves, and put into boiling water well 
salted, first placing in cloth bag, boil till tender, and serve 
with cream or milk, and butter. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 

Pare and scrape, cut in slices, boil, mash and season, 
same as mashed potatoes. Instead of putting in milk put 
in a well-beaten egg, make into small cakes, and fr}^ in 
half lard and butter a light brown. 
Fried Parsnips. 

Scrape, cut into strips, and boil until tender in salted 
water; drain and dip into batter, made with one egg beat- 
en light, one-half cup milk, and flour enough to make a 
batter, and fry in hot butter or lard. 

Spinacli. 

Spinach requires good washing and close picking. Boil 
twenty minutes in boiling water, drain, season with but- 
ter, pepper, and salt ; garnish the dish with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs. 

To Cook Muslirooms. 

Mrs. J. A. Howells. 

Have nothing to do with them until you can judge be- 
tween true and false. The true are most plenty in August 
or September. The top is a dirty white, the underside 
pink or salmon, changing to a russet or brown soon after 
gathered. Tho&;e white above and below are poisonous, and 
the latter sport all colors. To boil mushrooms, peel and 
boil 10 or 16 minutes in little water, and season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. 

French Muslirooms Canned. 

Pour off the liquid, pour over them a little cream, season, 
and let them simmer for a short time. To be served on 
broiled beefsteak. 

Mushrooms Broiled. 

Gather them fresh, pare, and cut off the stems, dip them 
in melted butter, season with salt and pepper, broil them 
on both sides over a clear fire ; serve on toast. 

Macaroni with Oysters. 

Boil macaroni in salt water, after which draw through a 
colander ; take a deep earthen dish or tin, put in alternate 
layers of macaroni and oysters, sprinkle the layers of mac- 
aroni with grated cheese ; bake until brown. 



VEGETEBLES. 47 

Stewed Macaroni. 

Boil two ounces of macaroni in water, drain well, put 
into a sauce-pan one ounce of butter, mix with one table- 
spoonful of flour, moisten with four tablespoonfuls of veal 
or beef stock, one gill of cream ; salt and white pepper to 
taste ; put in the macaroni, let it boil up, and serve while 
hot. 

Macaroni as a Vegetable. 

Simmer one-half pound of macaroni in plenty of water 
till tender, but not broken ; strain off the water. Take the 
yolks of five and the whites of two eggs, one-half pint of 
cream ; white meat and ham chopped very fine, three 
spoonfuls of grated cheese. Season with salt and pepper ; 
heat all together, stirring constantly. Mix with the mac- 
aroni, put into a buttered mold and steam one hour. 
Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Butter an earthen dish, then jDut in a layer of fresh to- 
matoes, sliced and peeled, and a few rinds of onion (one 
large onion for the whole dish), then cover with a layer of 
bread-crumbs, with a little butter, salt and pepper. Repeat 
this process until the dish is full. Bake for an hour in a 
pretty hot oven. 

Browned Tomatoes. 

Take large round tomatoes and halve them, place them 
the skin side down in a frying-pan in which a very small 
quantitj' of butter and lard has been previously melted, 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and dredge well with 
flour. Place the pan on a hot part of the fire, and let them 
brown thoroughly ; then stir, and let them brown again, 
and so on until they are quite done. They lose their acid- 
ity, and their flavor is superior to stewed tomatoes. 
To Broil Tomatoes. 

Take large round tomatoes, wash and wipe, and put them 
in a gridiron over lively coals, the stem side down. When 
brown, turn them and let them cook till quite hot through. 
Place them on a hot dish, and send quickly to the table, 
when each one may season for himself with pepper, salt 
and butter. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Fill a deep pan (as many as will cover the bottom) with 
ripe tomatoes ; round out a hole in the center of each ; fill 
up with bread-crumbs, butter, pepper and salt; put a tea- 
cup of water in the pan. Bake till brown ; send to the ta- 
ble hot. 



48 EGGS. 



EG-GS. 

Fried Eggs. 

Put a very littie butter in each cup of a gem pan, which 
should be hot enough to hiss ; break an egg in each cup, 
and fry till the eggs are hard as desired. 

This is a quick and easy way of frying eggs, as they pre- 
serve the shape of the cuj). It makes a very pretty dish. 

Boiled Eggs. 

The most delicate way of preparing is by pouring over them 
boiling water, and let them stand fifteen minutes, closely 
covered. If kept hot without boiling, the white becomes 
very white and delicate. An egg cooked the day it is laid 
requires a longer time to cook than one that is a day or 
two old. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Have a sjnder hot and buttered ; break the eggs into a 
dish, being careful not to break the yolks ; slip them into 
the spider, add a very little salt, with butter the size of a 
nutmeg for a half dozen eggs, or three tablespoonfuls of 
rich cream. When the eggs begin to whiten, stir carefully 
from the bottom, until cooked to suit. The yolks and 
whites should be separated, though stirred together. 

Btiked Eggs. 

Break as many eggs as needed in a buttered sauce-pan, 
with a small piece of butter on each, with pepper and salt, 
and bake till the whites are set. Are far more delicate 
than fried eggs. 

Egg Baskets. 

Boil as many eggs as needed quite hard ; put into cold 
water, then cut into halves ; remove the yolks and rub to 
a paste with melted liutter ; pepper and salt, then take 
cold roast chicken or turkey, which ma}' be on hand, chop 
fine and mix well with the yolk paste, moistening it with 
melted butter and gravy, and heat it well over hot water. 
Cut off a small slice from the end of the emjjty halves so 
they will stand firmly, and fill them with the paste. Place 
close together on a dish or platter, and pour over them 
the rest of the grav}'. A few spoons of cream or milk is 
an improvement. 



EGGS. 49 

Stuffed Eggs. 
Boil the eggs hard, remove shells and cut in two either 
way, as ])referred ; mix with the removed yolks, pepper, 
salt, and a little mustard, if liked, cold chicken, ham or 
tongue chopped fine, and a little butter; stuff the cavities, 
smooth them and jmt halves together again. For picnics, 
wrap them in tissue paper to keep together. 

To Poacli Eggs. 

Lay small muffin-rings in the water and drop an egg in 
each ring, and the egg will be smooth and the shape of the 
ring. 

Omelet. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Beat six eggs very light, the whites to a stiff frost that 
will stand alone, the yolks to a smooth, thick batter; add 
to 'the yolks a small cupful of milk, pepper and salt to 
taste ; lastly, stir in the whites lightly ; have ready in a 
hot frying-pan a good lumj:) of butter ; when it hisses pour 
in the mixture and set over a clear fire. Do not stir it, but 
contrive, as the eggs set, to slip a ])road-bladed knife under 
the omelet. When done, lay a hot plate, bottom upwards, 
on the pan, turn it over brown side up. Eat immediately. 
This is very fluff}^ and nice, but gentlemen usually jirefer 
one a little more solid. 

Omelet. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Allow one tablespoonful of cold water to each egg ; break 
the eggs into a bowl, add salt, pepi)er and water; simply 
stir it two or three times, or enough to break the yolks ; 
heat a good lump of butter in the frying-pan ; when hot, 
carefully pour in the omelet. When it begins to set in the 
middle, fold together by a dexterous turn of the frying-pan. 
Cook to a delicate brown. The water will prevent its be- 
ing leathery. Finely minced ham or oysters is a delicate 
addition to a plain omelet. 

Egg Sandwiches. 
Butter the bread and line the sandwiches with slices of 
hard-boiled eggs, slightly salted and peppered. Throw the 
the eggs as soon as boiled into very cold water, and leave 
them to cool there. This will prevent the yolks from turn- 
ing blue-black. 



50 BREAD. 



BREAD. 



Selecting Flour. 

First look to the color ; if it is white, with a yellowish- 
colored tint, buy it; if it is white, with a bluish cast, or 
with white specks in it, refuse it. Second, examine its ad- 
hesiveness—wet and knead a little of it between your fin- 
gers — if it works soft and sticky, it is poor. Third, throw 
a little lump of dried flour against a smooth surface, if it 
falls like powder, it is bad. Fourth, squeeze some of the 
flour tightly in your hand, if it retains the shape given by 
the pressure, that, too, is a good sign. It is safe to buy 
flour that will stand all these tests. 

Yeast. 

Pare and grate one dozen small potatoes, add one tea- 
cupful of sugar, one-half teacupful of salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of ginger; pour on to this while stirring, one quart 
of boiling water; boil a small handful of hops, strain and 
add to the above ; when cool, add a teacupful of yeast. 
Let this raise twenty-four hours. Bottle tight and set in 
a cool place. 

Dry Hop Yeast. 
Miss Fannie Deau. 

Take two handfuls of fresh hoj^s, put in a kettle and pour 
over them one quart of boiling water; boil about twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally ; then strain the liquid boil- 
ing hot into two cups of flour, and put it in. When cooled 
to about milk heat, add yeast sufficient to raise it, let stand 
till light, then mix it stiff with corn meal, and make into 
cakes ; spread on a board in the shade to dry, turning over 
occasionally while drying. When thoroughly dried, tie 
up tight in a paper bag, and you will have yeast that will 
keep three or four months. 

Hop Yeast. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

Two quarts of potatoes after they are pared ; boil quick 
in plenty of water, mash very fine after they are done ; 
take one-half j^int of hops, pour over them three pints of 
water ; let them boil about five minutes, then strain over 
the potatoes, and stir until the water and potatoes are well 
mixed, then add one-half teacupful of salt, one of sugar ^ 



BREAD. 51 

then set in a cool place until it is just warm, then stir in 
one teacupful of good yeast, and it will be ready for use as 
soon as light. In winter keep in a warm place until it 
rises, then close up tightly and keep cool. Do not use iron 
to cook the potatoes or hops in, as it makes the yeast dark. 
Dry Hop Yeast. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

Make a sponge, same as for bread, of fresh hoi^ yeast ; as 
soon as light, stir in enough corn meal to thicken, so with 
a very little flour it can be kneaded into cakes one-half 
inch thick; spread on boards to dry; turn them twice a 
day. Do not put them in the sun or by the fire while dry- 
ing, and keep covered with a thin cloth. When perfectly 
dry, tie up tightly in a paper bag, or put in glass fruit 
jars and keep in a cool, dry place. 

Kailroad Yeast for Salt Eisingr. 

Mrs. B. W, Baldwin. 

One teacup of middlings or Graham flour, one teaspoon 
of ginger, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, one-fourth of soda ; 
make into batter with boiling water. Let it stand one day 
in a warm place ; next morning put into rising made the 
usual way. 

Salt Rising Bread. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 

Put in a pint bowl one teaspoonful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of ginger, a piece of 
salaratus the size of a pea; turn on a teacupful of boiling 
water, cool it with milk lukewarm ; stir in flour ; make 
the batter a little thicker than you would for pancakes. 
Set the rising at night, and place on a heated soap stone. 
As soon as it is light in the morning, make your sponge, 
two-thirds of a quart of milk or water, or equal parts of 
each, and enough flour to make it stiff as you would for 
yeast bread ; then put in your rising, and stir it briskly. 
Sprinkle one teacupful of flour over the top, cover with a 
newspaper or towel, then set it over a kettle half full of 
hot water (let the kettle remain on the stove) ; place two 
small sticks over the kettle, then put on your bread-pan. 
Be careful and do not let the water get so hot so that it 
will scald your sponge ; it will stand considerable heat, but 
not enough to scald it. When it gets real light, mold into 
loaves, and let rise again ; put in the warming closet until 
the loaves begin to crack across the top and look very light ; 
then bake. 



52 BREAD. 

White Bread. 

Mrs. C. S. Simonds. 

To make 8 loaves of bread, pare and boil 6 or 8 small po- 
tatoes ; mash free from lumps and pour on 1 quart boiling 
water; this amount should include the water in which the 
potatoes are boiled. Stir in while still at scalding heat 1 
handful flour ; if potatoes are not used 3 handfuls of flour 
should be scalded. When the sponge becomes lukewarm 
add flour enough to make a moderately thick batter, and ^ 
of a teacupful of good yeast. If set in the evening the 
sponge should stand over night where it will not become 
chilled and should be mixed early in the morning. Add to 
it 1 tablespoonful softened butter, h teaspoonful salt and if 
overlight a "pinch" of soda. Transfer the sponge from the 
dish in which it has stood over night to a large bowl con- 
taining about 3 quarts flour. Mix with the hands until 
the dough is thick enough to knead; it is desirable to have 
a little more flour in the bowl than you wish to work into 
the dough. Do not make the dough stiffer than is absolute- 
ly necessary for handling upon the moulding board upon 
which it should be kneaded with well floured hands until 
it is quite smooth and springs beneath the hands. Set in 
a warm place to rise ; when light, mould down and knead. 
It ma}' now be moulded into loaves, but will be improved 
by a third rising and kneading. When light enough for 
baking, gash the loaves slightly with a sharp knife to pre- 
vent binding of the crust. Bake f of an hour in an oven 
which is hot when the loaves are put in ; the fire should 
decrease when they begin browning. 

Frencli Rolls. 

Mrs. U. Z. Canfield, Buffalo. 

Take 1 pint of very light bread-dough, ^ pint sweet milk, 
1 tablespoonful of lard, soda the size of a pea; boil milk, 
lard and soda together, and pour over the dough ; add two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt; mix thoroughly, 
then add flour to make a soft dough. Set in a warm place 
until very light, then roll about ^ inch thick, spread a lit- 
tle lard over the top, and cut out with cake cutter ; double 
nearly half over, put in pans, do not let them touch. Let 
them rise and bake 15 minutes. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Mn. S. A. Northway. 

2 quarts flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls lard, 1 
pint scalded milk, ^ cup yeast, a scant ^ teacupful of white 



BREAD. 53-. 

sugar. Mix well the flour, lard and salt; when the milk 
has cooled to lukewarm, then add the yeast and sugar, make 
a deep hole in the flour, pour in the mixture, just covering 
it lightly with flour ; let it rise 7 or 8 hours, then mix as 
soft bread. Roll out, cut round and loj) over, putting a 
lump of butter between, then let them rise in a pan, and 
bake. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Mrs. E. F. Abell. 

2 quarts flour; 1 pint milk; ^ teacup yeast ; ^teacup 
lard; ^ teacup sugar ; 1 teaspoon salt. Boil the milk and 
let the lard melt in it ; sift the flour into a deep dish and 
make a hole in the centre; put in the yeast, then sugar 
and salt, and add the milk after it has cooled. Let it stand 
without mixing all night; in the morning mix and mold. 
Put back in the dish and rise ; after dinner mold again : 
roll half an inch thick, cut with round cutter, and fold to- 
gether; let them rise until time to bake for supper. In 
summer if put to rise after breakfast they will be light 
enough to bake for tea. When nearly done brush the tops 
lightly with a cloth dipped in milk. 

Raised Biscuit. Nice. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

To 1 pint of potato sponge add in the morning a little 
pulverized sugar, 1 pint warm milk or water, a little flour; 
let stand until light, then add 1 cup butter, 1 egg or two; 
make soft and mould well. Will make 45 or 50 biscuit. 
Sweet Rusk. 

Make a sponge with 1 pint warm milk, 2 tablespoons 
yeast, and flour for a thin batter and let rise over night. 
In the morning add h cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, tea- 
spoon salt well mixed together, and flour to make soft 
dough. Mould small size and let rise very light. After 
baking, wet the tops with molasses and water. 

Rusk. 

Mra. S. A. i^orthway. 

3 cups of milk, 1 cup of yeast, 1 cup sugar, and a little 
salt, make a batter as for bread, when light, add one cup 
more of sugar, 1 cup of lard and butter together, 2 eggs, 
leaving out the white of one, a little nutmeg ; knead very 
soft, when light mould and put into tins like biscuit, when 
light again, beat the white of the egg, and with a piece of 
cloth 'wet them over just before placing them in the oven. 
Bake 20 minutes. This will make 30 rusks. 



54 BEEAD. 

Brown Bread. 

Mrs. M. E. Galpin. 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, stir these into one quart 
milk, and thicken with equal parts corn meal and graham 
to the consistency of cake batter, ^ teaspoon salt. Boil in a 
mould 3 hours. 

Brown Bread. 

Jane Ciirtis. 

1 pint of bread crumbs soaked, 1 cup of scalded meal, 1 
cup of light bread sponge, -J cup of molasses; mix these to- 
gether, place in a pan of flour and work into a loaf. Let 
rise and bake f of an hour. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Mrs. II. L. Hervey. 

1^ cups of flour, 1| cups of m.eal, H cups of rye or graham 
flour, 2^ cups of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda. Steam 2^ 
hours, then put in a moderately hot oven for H hours, or 
until it is a light brown. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

3 cups sweet milk, 2 cups of sour milk, 4 cups of corn 
meal, 2 of flour, 1 of syrup, small tablespoonful of soda, the 
same of salt. Steam 2 hours and bake i hour. 

(xraliam Bread. 

Mrs. E. A. Sheldon. 

1 quart of water, 1 tablespoonful of salt, ^ cup of sugar, 1 
cup of yeast, enough graham flour to make a stiff" batter; 
sponge at night and leave in a warm place to rise. In the 
morning turn into a pan without stirring it down. Let 
stand ^ hour, and bake 1 hour. 

Graliani Bread. 

Mrs. E. L. Sampson. 

From your bread sponge take 1| pints, add 1 quart water, 
1 cup sugar, a little salt, mix well together ; add graham 
enough to make a batter as thick as you can stir with a 
spoon. 

Graham Bread. 

Miss Ada Simonds. 

For 1 loaf scald 1 handful of white flour with 1 pint of 
boiling water. When cool add graham flour until as thick 
as white sponge and stir in 1 tablespoonful of yeast. When 
light add a generous pinch of salt, a piece of butter half the 
size of a hen's egg, and a tablespoonful of molasses. Then 



BREAD. ' 55 

with one hand in the flour and the other in the sponge add 
flour until you can lift it readily from the pan ; it does not 
require kneading and must not be made as stift' as white 
dough. If a larger loaf is desired a little milk may be add- 
ed to the sponge in the final mixing. Transfer to the bak- 
ing tin and set to rise. A loaf of this size will bake in half 
an hour in a moderately quick oven. 

Corn Bread. 

Mrs. A. M. Williams. 

5 cups of meal, 3 of flour, 2 of sour milk, 4 of sweet milk, 
i cup of molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
salt. Bake 21 hours in a slow oven. Can steam 1 hour 
and bake Ih. 

Corn Bread. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

2 cups of corn meal, ^ cup flour, 1 cup sour milk, -| cup 
melted butter, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 3 eggs, beat the 
eggs and sugar till very light, then add the meal, flour, 
milk and butter. Stir well together, after which add ^ 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water. Stir well and 
bake quick. 

Indian Bread. 

Mrs. J. E. Allen. 

6 cups sweet milk, 3 cups sour milk, 1 cup molasses, 7 
cups meal, 3 cups flour heaped, 2 teaspoons soda ; steam IJ 
hours and bake 1 hour. This will make 2 loaves. 

Indian Bread. 

Mrs. E. J. Wilder. 

4 cups of sweet milk, 3 of sour milk, 1 of molasses, 5 cups 
of meal, 3 of flour, soda to sweeten. 

Johnny Cake. 

Mrs. D. A. Prentice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1 egg, 2 cups of sweet 
milk, ^ cup of sugar or molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 2 cups each of corn meal and flour. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Jolmny Cake. 

Mrs. M. E. Galpin. 

1 cup sour milk, 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 teaspoon soda; thicken with meal and bake in a 
hot gem pan. 
4 



56 BREAKFAST CAKES. 



BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Muffins. 

Mrs. H. P. Wade. 
One quart of flour, one pint of warm milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one-half gill of yeast ; mix at night, and beat 
until very light. In the morning drop the dough in but- 
tered rings ; let stand twenty minutes, then bake. 

Muffins. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 
One quart of milk, one-half pint of yeast, two well 
beaten eggs, a lump of butter one-half the size of an egg, 
and flour enough to make a stifl" batter ; let them stand 
until perfectly light, then bake on a griddle in the rings 
made for the purpose. 

Breakfast Cakes. 

Mi-s. S. A. Northway. 
Two-thirds of a cup of milk, two eggs beaten lightly, two 
cups of flour, one tablespoonful of meal, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, and butter the size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. 

Muflins. 
One quart of sour milk, two tal:)le8poonfuls of butter, one 
of soda, and enough flour to make a thick batter. 

Wheat aiuffins. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

One teaspoonful of melted butter, one egg, one and one- 
half cup of flour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-hali 
teaspoonful of soda, one-half cup of sweet milk ; bake 
quickly in mufiin pans. 

3Ieal Muffins. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

One and one-half cup of milk and water, one egg, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, a little salt, two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, meal enough to make a thin batter. 

(irraliani (irems. 

Mrs. H. L. Ilervey. 

Two cups of Graham flour, one cup of sour milk, one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, one-half teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved into the milk (sweet milk and baking powder 



BREAKFAST CAKES. 57 

may be used if preferred). The gem tins should be well 
buttered and hot, and the gems baked quick. 

Graham Gems. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

One cup of buttermilk, one tablespoonful of butter, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda, a little salt, flour to make a stiff 
batter. Sweeten if you choose; bake in gem pans. 

Breakfast Bolls. 

Mrs. E. B. Leonard. 

One pint of sweet milk, one or two eggs, a little salt, a 
little butter, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Stir 
the batter some thicker than you would for griddle cakes; 
bake quick. 

Wheat Gems. 

Mrs. T. Fricker. 

To one cup of rich sour buttermilk add one teaspoonful 
of soda, a little salt, and flour enough to make a stiff bat- 
ter; drop into hot gem irons and bake in a quick oven. 

Oat Meal Breakfast Cakes. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

One teacup of oat meal, one of sour milk ; soak over 
night; one-half teacupful of molasses, one and one-half of 
wheat flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, 
two eggs. 

Griddle Cakes. 

Miss H. S. Kellogg. 

One quart of thick sour milk, one quart of flour, five 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, soda and a little 
salt. 

Breakfast Corn Cakes. 

Mrs, E, Latham, 

One pint of not very sour milk, one egg, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, one tablespoonful of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, corn meal to make not very thick bat- 
ter; bake in buttered gem tins. 

Bice Croquetts. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Boil one cupful of rice till very soft ; when cold, beat in 
two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one of salt; form into 
pear shaped balls, dust a little flour over and roll them into 
two beaten eggs, and fry a little brown in boiling lard. 
Send to the table hot. 



58 CRACKERS. 



CRACKERS. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

Seven cups of flour, one-half cup of water, one-half cup of 
butter, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of 
soda. One tablespoonful of cream improves them. 

Cream Crackers. 

Mrs. J, A. Howells. 

One pint of cream, six eggs, the whites beaten separately. 
If the cream is sour, one teaspoonful of soda ; add to the 
cream and eggs enough flour to make a stiff dough, a little 
salt ; pound half an hour. 



CAKES. 59 



CAKES. 

Cake Making. 

To make a good cake one must be accurate in the pro- 
portions and should have fresh eggs, good sweet butter, and 
crushed sugar. It is also best to have an egg-beater, as you 
can beat the eggs much better in a ver}'' little time. Never 
beat your eggs or butter and sugar in a tin pan, as the cold- 
ness of the tin is apt to prevent them from becoming light, 
but always use an earthen or wooden vessel. On mixing, 
beat well together butter and sugar, beat sejoarately the 
yolks and the whites of the eggs, then with the yolks, first 
stir the butter and sugar, next the flour and milk, if any 
is used, and lastly, the whites of the eggs and flavoring. 
If you desire to try your cake before baking, add about one- 
third of a teaspoonful of baking powder to a large spoonful 
of batter, then bake. It is not best to put baking powder 
into the cake and let it stand long before baking. 

White Pound Cake. 

Mrs, D. L. Crosby. 

1 cup sugar, IJ cups flour, J cup milk, ^ cup butter, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, whites of 2 eggs. 

Cnp Cake. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Rub 3 cups sugar with 1| cups butter ; when white beat 
3 eggs, and mix with butter and sugar together with 3 cups 
sifted flour, rose water and essence of lemon to taste. Dis- 
solve 1 teaspoon soda in 1 cup sour milk, strain it into the 
cake, then add 3 cups more of sifted flour and 1 pound of 
seeded and chopped raisins. 

Bridgeport Cake. 

Mrs. Asaph Carter. 

1 cup butter, 2 of sugar, 3^ of flour, 2 cups currants, 1 
cup sour milk, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, juice and rind of 1 
lemon. 

One Egg Cake. 

Mrs. M. Baldwin. 
1 egg, i cup milk, IJ cups flour, 1 cujo sugar, 1 tablespoon 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 



60 CAKES. 

Ocean Cake. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

2 cups powdered sugar, ^ cup butter, 1 of sweet milk, 3 of 
flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 5 eggs. 

Dover Cake. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 
1 cupful butter, "2 cupfuls sugar, 6 eggs, IJ pints flour, 1 
cup milk, 1 teasi)Oonful each royal baking powder, extract 
cinnamon and orange. Rub butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the eggs 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes, between each 
addition sift the flour and powder together. Bake in a 
ath er hot oven 40 minutes. 

Gold Cake, 

Mrs. S. A, Northway 

Yolks of 8 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 of butter, 1 of sweet milk, 
4 of flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 of cream tartar, nutmeg. 

Delicate Plum Cake. 

Miss Fanny Dean. 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup seeded raisins, 2 cups flour, h cup but- 
ter, h c\x\) milk, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, ^ of soda, whites 
of 4 eggs, and flavor to taste. 

Rochester Cake. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

2 cups sugar, § cup butter, 3 of flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 
3 eggs, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 2- spoon soda. Put in 3 
parts, baking two plain. To the third add 1 tablespoon 
molasses, 1 cup raisins chopped, \ cup citron, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, \ cloves, 1 tablespoon flour. When done put 
together with jelly and frost the top. 

Layer Cake. 

Mrs. Allen Houghton. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, § cup sweet milk, 1 table- 
spoon melted butter. If cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Bake in 3 layers and spread each with a cream or 
jelly. Use whites of eggs for frosting. 

Roll Jelly Cake. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman' Sr. 

3 eggs, 1 cup white sugar, 1 cup flour, 2 teaspoons cream 
tartar, 1 of soda. 

Jelly Cake. 

Mrs. Asaph Carter. 

3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons sweet milk, 4 of melt- 
ed butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 of cream tartar, 1^ cups flour. 



CAKES. 61 

Jelly Cake. 

Mrs. M. Baldwin, 

1 cup sugar, § cup sweet milk, 1^ cups flour, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 egg, three teaspoons baking powder. 

Apple Jelly Cake. 

Miss II. S. Kellogg. 
4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, butter size of an egg, 1 cup flour, 1 
teaspoon cream tartar, ^ teaspoon soda. For the jelly — 1 
lemon, 1 cup sugar, 1 large sour apple grated, 1 egg. Beat 
together, and stir till they come to a hard boil. Make this 
first and set to cool. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

2 eggs, 2 cups sugar, not quite ^ cup butter, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 2^ flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 of cream tartar, 1 of lemon 
extract. 

Jelly for above. 

1 lemon, 1 egg, one-half cup water, one-half cup sugar, 1 
tablespoon flour. Beat the egg and sugar, add the flour and 
grated rind and juice of the lemon, then stir into the boil- 
ing water. When cold spread between the layers of cake. 

Lemon Roll Cake. 

Mrs. S. W. Dickinson. 

One cup sugar, three eggs, one tablespoon butter, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, one cup flour. Stir ten minutes and 
bake in long tins. 

Jelly for same. 

One grated lemon, one cup sugar, one egg well beaten' 
one tablespoon water. Boil, and when nearly cool spread 
the cake with jelly and roll. 

Lemon Cake. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 
Three cups sugar, one of butter, one of sour milk, five 
cups flour, five eggs, one teaspoon lemon extract, currants. 

Sponge Cake. 

Mrs. S, A. Northway. 

Three eggs beaten together for five minutes, one and one- 
half cups powdered sugar added to the eggs and beaten five 
minutes longer, then add two cups flour, one-half cup boil- 
ing water last thing, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half of 
soda, a little salt and lemon to taste. 



62 CAKES. 

Sponge Cake. 

Mrs. D. L. Crosby. 
Four eggs, two cups sugar, two cups flour, one-half cup 
cold water, two teaspoons baking powder. Makes two small 
loaves. 

Sponge Cake. 

Mrs. W. II. Ruggles. 

One cup pulverized sugar, one-half cup flour, whites of 
five eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar. 
Sponge Cake. 
Mrs. Asa Bailey. 
One cup sugar, one cup flour, four eggs. Beat sugar, 
whites and yolks together till very light. Add flour very 
lightly. 

White Sponge Cake. 

Miss M. Williams. 

Whites of ten eggs, one goblet and one-half pulverized 
sugar, (common size) one goblet flour, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, beat eggs to stiff froth, sift cream tartar, flour and 
sugar together. Bake in moderate oven. 
White Sponge Cake. 

Mrs. S, W. Dickinson. 

One cup of sug'ur, ond and one-fourth cups of flour, whites 
of seven eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda. Bake in jelly tins and spread with jelly or frosting. 

Delicate Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. Wni. Gibson. 

Two and one-half teacups sugar, three and one-half cups 
sifted flour, one teacup butter, one of sour milk, one tea- 
spoon soda, four eggs, flavor with lemon. Fill three jelly 
tins, to the remainder add one cup chopped raisins, one of 
currants, one-half of citron, two tablespoons molasses, one of 
cinnamon, one-half of cloves. 

Ribbon Cake. 

Mrs. Asaph Carter. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, on« of milk, four of 
flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half of 
soda. Fill two tins of equal size, one-third in each ; to the 
remaining one-third add three teaspoonfuls of molasses, one 
teacupful of currants or raisins, chopped, a little cinnamon 
and spice to taste ; place in layers when done, light and 
dark alternately, with jelly between ; lay a piece of paper 
on top, turn on one of the tins and press with two flat-irons 
till cold. 



CAKES. 63 

Layer Cake. 

Mrs. M. E. Galpin. 

Light — Two cupfuls of sugar, two-thirds of a, cupful of 
butter, one cupful of milk, three of flour, three eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Dark. — One-third of the batter, add to it one cupful of 
chopped raisins, one-third of a cupful of citron, one-third 
of a cupful of currants, one teaspoonful of cloves, two of 
cinnamon, one tablespoonful of flour ; put together with 
jelly or frosting, dark layer in the center. 

Cocoaiiut Cake. 

Mrs. E. F. Abell. 

Whites of three eggs, one cupful of sugar, one-half cupful 
of sweet milk, one and one-half of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, whites of two eggs for frosting ; put on 
in layers with cocoanut sprinkled on. 

Cocoaiiut Cake. 

Miss Flora Lindsley. 

One-half cupful of butter (scant), one and one-half of 
sugar, one-half cupful of corn starch, one-half cupful of 
sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one and 
one-half cupfuls of flour, whites of six eggs. 

Snowflake Cake. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one-half cup 
of butter, four cujjs of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 
cream tartar, one-half of soda; bake in layers, with thin 
icing between, sprinkled thickly with prepared cocoanut. 
Flavor as you like. 

Chocolate Cake. 
Miss Eliza Latham. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of milk, two cups 
of sugar, three cups of flour, whites of eight eggs, three 
teaspoons of baking powder ; bake in layers. Icing or jelly 
for same, one-half cake of chocolate, one cup sugar, one- 
half cup milk ; boil together for jelly, or bake in loaf and 
use same for frosting. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Mrs. E. B. Leonard. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and one-half cups 
flour, one cup sweet milk, four eggs, two teaspoons baking 
powder. 

Mixture. — Two squares bakers' chocolate grated, two cups 
5 



64 CAKES. 

brown sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, white of one egg; 
boil till thick; flavor with vanilla. 

Orange Cake, 

Mrs. M. Baldwin. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup water, 
two cups flour, yolks of five and whites of four eggs beaten 
separately, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, one or- 
ange grated, the white of one egg, and sufficient sugar to 
make it stiff placed between the layers. 

Orange Cake. 

Mrs. D. L. Crosby. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, five eggs, reserving 
the whites of twq for frosting, one-half cup cold water, two 
teaspoons baking powder, grated peel and juice of one or- 
ange ; bake in layers; grated peel and juice of one orange 
in frosting. 

Orange Cake. 

Miss A . M. Lewis. 

One-half cup butter, two of sugar, two and one-half of 
flour, two tablespoons sw^et milk, one and one-half tea- 
spoons baking powder, the yolks of five eggs, whites of 
three, grate outside and squeeze the juice of one orange 
into the cake, using another for icing ; bake as jelly cake. 

Mountain Cake. 

Mrs W. H. Rucrgles. 

One pound sugar, one pound flour, one-half pound butter, 
one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons baking powder, six eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately ; flavor with lemon. 

Mountain Cake. 

Mrs. J. E. All.n. 

One cup sugar, one large cup flour, two eggs, or whites 
of four, one-fourth cup milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-Iialf of soda; bake in two tins and put together with 
jelly. 

Mountain Cake. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour, one- 
half pound sour milk, one teaspoon soda, ten eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately; bake like jelly cake, with 
icino; between. 



CAKES. 65 

Almond Cake. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

One and one-half cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, two cups flour, three eggs, two teaspoons 
baking powder, one-fourth i)ound blanched almonds. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

Mrs. J. R. Fitch. 

Two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, 
one-half cup butter, two eggs, two heaping teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, one pint each of meats, one cup raisins, one- 
half cup blanched almonds, all chopped. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

Mis3 Minnie Dean. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two cups flour, 
three-fourths cup sweet milk, one-half cup hickory-nut 
meats and one cup of seeded raisins, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 

Fig Cake. 

Mrs. W. P. Rowland. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
three cups flour, one teaspoon' soda, two of cream tartar, 
whites of eight eggs; bake in layers. For filling, chop 
separatel}^ one pound raisins, three-fourths pound figs, and 
mix; then sj)read the cake with this, and then a layer of 
boiled frosting. 

Fig Cake. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

Tw^o cups sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, one cup corn starch, whites of six 
eggs, one teaspoon baking powder; flavor with lemon. 

DARK PART. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup cold water, 
with teaspoon of soda dissolved in it, one and one-half cups 
chopped raisins, one-half pound figs, four eggs, cinnamon 
and cloves ; bake in layers. 

Blackberry Cake. 

Mrj. W. P. Howland. 

One cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one cup black- 
berry jam, one and one-half cups flour, three tablespoons 
sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, three eggs, cinnamon and 
nutmeg. 



66 OAKES. 

Marble Cake. 

Mrs. E. B, Leonard. 

Brown. — Yolks of four eggs, one cup brown sugar, one- 
half cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sour 
milk, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one- 
half nutmeg, one-half teaspoon cloves, one-half teaspoon 
black pepper, one-half teaspoon allspice, two and one-half 
cups flour. 

White. — Whites of four eggs, one-half cup sweet milk, 
one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one cup 
white sugar, one of butter, two of flour. 

Marble Cake. 

Mrs. Alice E. Baldwin. 

Light part. — One cup sugar, one-half cup each of butter 
and milk, whites of three eggs, two cujds flour, one and 
one-half teaspoons baking powder. 

Dark. — One-half cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one- 
quarter cup each of butter and milk, two cups flour, yolks 
of three eggs, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder, 
three teaspoons of ground mixed spices. Put the batter 
into tin in alternate layers. 

Mottled Cake. 

Mrs. W. P. Howland. 

Light part. — Two 'cups sugar, two-third cup butter, 
two and one-third cup sweet milk, three and one-half 
cups flour, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, whites 
of eight eggs. Lemon flavoring. 

Red part. — One cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one- 
third cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, whites of eight eggs. Vanilla 
flavoring. Color with rose syrup. Fill pan with spoonful 
of light, then with red until full. 

Rose Syrup for above. 

One-quarter oz. powdered alum, one quarter oz. cream 
tartar, one oz. powdered cochineal, four oz. loaf sugar, one 
saltspoon of soda. Boil ten minutes in a pint of water, 
when cool bottle tight. 

Metropolitan Cake. 

Mrs. J. R. Fitch. 

White. — One and one-half cups white sugar, one-half of 
butter, one-half sweet milk, two and a half flour, whites of 
four eggs, two even teaspoons baking powder. 



CAKES. 67 

Dark. — One cup brown sugar, one-half molasses, one-half 
butter, one-half sweet milk, two and one-half flour, yolks of 
four eggs, two even teaspoons baking powder; add si^ices 
and fruit. Bake in layers, alternating light and dark. 
Frost each layer. 

Watermelon Cake. 

Mrs. Wm. Gibson. 

White part. — Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three and one-half cups 
flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda. 

Red part. — One cup red sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
third cup sweet milk, two cups flour, whites of four eggs, 
one teas^joon cream tartar, one-half spoon soda, one cup 
seeded raisins. Place red part in the center. 

Ice Cream Cake. 

Mrs. Henry Wade. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, 
three eggs, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake in layers. 

For Filling. 

Whites of two eggs, four tablespoons sugar to one egg, 
one teaspoon of vanilla, a little more than a square of choc- 
olate grated. 

Buifalo Cream Cake. 

Mrs. Wm. Gibson. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, two-thirds 
cup milk, two teasj^oons baking powder, one of vanilla, one 
and two-thirds cup flour; bake in three layers. 

Cream for same. 

One-half pint milk, one egg, one teaspoon corn starch, 
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons sugar, vanilla. Scald 
the milk, beat sugar, flour, egg and corn starch together, 
and boil until it becomes thick. Add a little salt. 

French Cream Cake. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey, 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder, three tablespoons cold water, flavor to taste. 
Bake in jelly tins in three or four layers according to size 
of pans, and put between layers this second part : One cup 
sweet milk, one egg, one-half cup sugar, two teaspoons corn 
starch, piece of butter size of an egg. Place milk over fire, 
beat other ingredients together; when milk comes to a boil 
stir them in and boil till so thick it will not run from cake, 



68 CAKES. 

when almost cold flavor with lemon, and when cold put to- 
gether like any otlier layer cake. For a large cake take 
twice the amount called for. 

Cream Puffs. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 

One and one-half cups flour, two- thirds of a cup of but- 
ter, one-half pint of boiling water; boil water and butter 
together, stir in the flour while boiling; let it cool, then 
add five well-beaten eggs; drop in tins, and bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. When cold split open, and fill 
with cream. 

CreaiUo 

One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
flour, two eggs; beat eggs, sugar and flour together; stir 
this in the milk while it is boiling. When partly cool 
flavor with vanilla and nutmeg. 

Cream Cake. 

Mrs. J. E. Allen. 

Two cups powdered sugar, three-quarter cup butter, one- 
half cup milk, three cups flour, four eggs, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 

Cream for Same. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half pint milk, one egg, two tea- 
spoons corn starch, one teaspoon vanilla. Heat milk to 
boiling, stir in corn starch wet with cold milk, take out a 
little and mix with the well-beaten egg and sugar, then 
boil all together, stirring constantly until quite thick. 
Cool before seasoning, then spread on cake. 

Cream Cake. 

Miss H. S. Kellogg. 

One cup boiling water, one heaping cup sifted flour, 
piece butter size of an egg. Scald together, then stir in four 
well-beaten eggs. 

Custard for Filling. 

To one quart of milk four eggs, sugar and flavoring to 
taste. 

Election Cake. 

Mrs, S. W. Dickinson. 

One cup of yeast, one of sugar, one pint sweet milk, flour 
enough to make a stiff" dough, and raise over night. Add 
one cup sugar, three quarters of butter, a little salt, allspice, 
cinnamon, raisins and currants, flour enough to stiffen; 



CAKES. 69 

raise again ; when reacl^^ for oven rub a little milk and 
molasses over top, and when baked rub white of an egg 
over it. 

"Old" Election Cake. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

Four and one-quarter pounds flour, two pounds butter, 

three pounds sugar, three pints of milk, five eggs, one wine 

glass brandy one of wine, one nutmeg, fruit, raisins and 

citron. 

French Loaf Cake. 
Mrs. E. J. Wilder. 
Two and one-half cuj^s sugar, one and one-half cups but- 
ter, three eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, one 
teaspoon soda, one and one-haf cups sour m.ilk, one-half lb. 
raisins seeded, four cups flour. Makes two loaves. 

Loaf Cake. 

Miss Fannie Dean. 

Two cups light bread dough, one cup sugar, one cup 
seeded raisins, slightly chopped, one-half cup butter, two 
tablespoonfuls sweet cream, one egg, one teaspoonful ground 
mace or nutmeg, one of cinnamon ; mix together thorough- 
ly with the hand, put into a buttered cake dish, and when 
it begins to rise, put into a slow oven. 

Loaf Cake. 

Mrs J. E. Allen. 

Six cups light dough, one-fourth cup butter, three cups 
sugar, four eggs; when well mixed, add teaspoon cream 
tartar, one of soda, in a cup of thick cream; spice to taste. 

Raised Cake. 

Mrs. Allen Houghton. 

Two cups sponge, one cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, 
three eggs, one-half teaspoon soda, raisins and spices to suit 
taste. 

Coffee Cake. 

Mrs. Allen Houghton. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, two' 
eggs, one-half cup strong coffee, one teaspoon saleratus dis- 
solved in coffee, two cups flour, fruit if you prefer; bake 
in slow oven. 

Coffee Cake. 

Mrs. S. A. North way. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one of butter, 
one of coffee, four of flour, one j)ound raisins, one pound 



70 CAKES. 

currants, one teas^poon soda, one of cinnamon, one of cloves, 
one nutmeg ; will keep six months. 

Coffee Cake. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, three-fourths 
cup butter, one cup cold strong coffee, four cups flour, three 
eggs, two teaspoons soda dissolved in hot water, one nut- 
meg, one pound raisins, seeded, chopped and rolled in flour, 
will make two loaves. 

Pork Cake. 

Mrs. Asaph Carter. 

One pound salt pork, one pint boiling water, four cups 
sugar, one cup molasses, one pound raisins, one pound cur- 
rants, one-fourth pound citron, one teaspoon cinnamon, six 
cups flour, one teaspoon soda, one of cloves, one of nutmeg. 

Pork Cake. 

Mrs. Anna Albro, Buffalo, N. Y. 

One pound fat salt pork chopped fine; turn over it two tea- 
cups boiling water, two cups New Orleans molasses, one cup 
brown sugar, seven of flour, one and one-half pounds rai- 
sins, one pound currants, two tablespoons each of cinna- 
mon, cloves, allspice and nutmeg, one heaping teaspoon 
soda. This makes three large loaves, is equal to rich fruit 
cake, keeps a long time and improves with age. 

Spiced Cake. 

Miss S. Adele Crowell. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour milk, three 
cups flour, one-half teaspoon each of cloves, nutmeg, cin- 
namon and soda, one cuj^ seeded raisins. 

Spice Cake. 

Mrs. W. H. Eugs^les. 

One cup molasses, one of sugar, two-thirds cup butter, 
one cup sour milk, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, one nut- 
meg, one and one-half teaspoons cinnamon, one of cloves, 
three and one-half cups flour; two cups raisins are an im- 
provement. 

Spice Cake. 

Miss Eliza Latham. 

Two cujDS sugar, nearly one cup butter, three eggs, one 
cup sweet milk, three cups flour, one teaspoon soda, two of 
cream tartar; add chocolate with spices and raisins to dark- 
en it. 



CAKES. 71 

Angel's Food. 

Mrs. M. H. King. 

Take the whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half tum- 
blerfuls granulated sugar, one of flour, one teaspoon of va- 
nilla and one of cream tartar. Sift the flour four times, 
then add the cream tartar and sift again, but have the right 
measure before putting in the cream tartar. Sift the sugar 
and measure. Beat the eggs to a stifl" froth on a large plat- 
ter ; on the same platter add the sugar lightly, then the 
flour very genti}', then the vanilla. Do not stop beating 
until you put it in the pan to bake ; bake forty minutes in 
a very moderate oven ; try with a straw, and if too soft, let 
it remain a few minutes longer ; turn the pan upside down to 
cool; when cold take out by loosening around the sides 
with a knife. Use a pan that has never been greased, and 
there must be on the edge three projections of tin an inch 
deep, so there will be a space between the pan and table 
when it is turned upside down. The tumbler for measur- 
ing must hold two and one-fourth gills. 

Augel Food. 

Mrs. Asa Bailey. 

One tumbler flour, whites of ten eggs, one tumbler pul- 
verized sugar, one teas^joon cream tartar. 

White Cake. 

Mrs. Lucien Gage. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
two cups flour, one cup raisins, one-half spoon soda, one of 
cream tartar, whites of four eggs. 

White Cake. 

Mrs. M. Baldwin. 

Whites of five eggs, one and one-half cup sugar, one-half 
cup milk, two cups flour, one-half cup butter, one and one- 
half teaspoons baking powder. 

White Cake. 

Miss Flora Lindsley. 

Two cups sugar, whites of four eggs, five tablespoons but- 
ter, ten tablespoons sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, 
two and one-half teaspoons baking powder. 

White Cake. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Whites of twelve eggs beaten to a froth, one pound su- 
gar, one pound flour, three-fourths pound butter, citron, 
one teaspoon lemon or vanilla and a little soda. 
6 



72 CAKES. 

White Faced Cake. 

Mrs. E. A. Sheldon. 

Whites of four eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one- 
third cup butter, two-thirds cup milk, two cups flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder. 

Delicate Calie. 

Mrs. E. J. Wilder. 

Whites of four eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoon baking powder, one 
tablespoon corn starch, one and one-half cups flour. 

Bride's Calie. 

Mrs. M. Baldwin. 

Whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two cups white 
sugar, one cup butter, two teaspoons cream tartar, one of 
soda, one cup sweet milk, five cups flour; put cream tar- 
tar in flour, soda in milk last of all. 

Corn Starch Cake. 

Mrs. Ralph Carter. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cupj milk, one- 
half cup butter, one-half cup corn starch, one cup flour, 
whites of four eggs, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Corn Starch Cake. 

Mrs. W. H. Ruggles. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, two of flour, one cup corn 
starch, one cup sweet milk, wliites of five eggs, two tea- 
spoon baking powder; flavor with lemon. 
Snow-drift Cake. 

Mrs. W. A. Van Duzer. 

Three cups flour, two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one cup sweet milk, whites of five eggs, two and one-half 
teaspoons baking powder. 

Silver Cake. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway, 

Whites of eight eggs beaten to stiff froth, two cups sugar, 
one of butter, one of sour milk, four of flour, one teaspoon 
soda, two of cream tartar ; flavor to taste. 
White Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. ]Sr. E. French. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, two 
and one-half cups flour, whites of seven eggs, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, one pound raisins, one pound figs, 
one pound dates, one pound almonds, one-fourth pound cit- 
ron ; blanch the almonds and cut fine. 



CAKES. 73 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. Geo. Sheldon. 

One cup chopped raisins, one cup sour milk, two cups 
syrup, one cup butter or drippings, two teaspoons soda, two 
handfuls dried apples soaked over night and chopped fine 
to make two teacupfuls; add one cup syrup and simmer 
till nearly dry ; add fruit, cinnamon and spice to taste ; 
stir quite thick. 

Cheai) Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. C. C. Woodruff. 

One cup each of butter, brown sugar, molasses and sweet 
milk, three cups flour, one pound each of raisins, currants, 
one teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmegs and soda. 

Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One pound sugar, one pound butter, one pound flour, two 
pounds well washed currants, one-half pound citron, two 
pounds raisins, one-half of them seeded and all chopped, 
twelve eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one tea- 
spoon soda, two of cinnamon, two of cloves, two of mace. 

Excellent Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. J. E. Allen. 

One cup butter, one cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, 
one cup sweet milk, three cups of flour, four eggs, one and 
one-half teaspoon cream tartar, one of soda, two pounds 
chopped raisins, one nutmeg ; will make two good loaves 
and keep moist six weeks. 

Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. J. A. Hervey. 

Four cups light dough, three eggs, one cup butter, two 
of sugar, one nutmeg, two cups seeded raisins, added last; 
makes two loaves. 

Mrs. W. P. Howland. 

Fruit Cake. 

Four pounds raisins, three pounds currants, one pound 
citron, one and one-half pounds sugar, one and one-fourth 
pounds butter, one and one-half pounds flour, one pound 
blanched almonds, three-fourth ounce cinnamon, one-fourth 
ounce cloves, one-half ounce allspice, three nutmegs, ten 
eggs- 
Black Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three-fourths pound 
butter, three pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one 



74 CAKES. 

pound citron, seven eggs, two cups sour cream, two cups 
molasses, two teaspoons cloves, two nutmegs, two teaspoons 
cinnamon, two of soda. 

Dark Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

One pound brown sugar, three-fourths pound butter, one 
pound sifted flour, ten eggs, two pounds raisins, stoned and 
cut, two pounds currants well washed and dried, one-half 
pound citron cut in slips, one-half pound almonds blanched 
and cut, twelve figs cut in slips, one handful each of can- 
died orange and lemon peel cut in slips, one wine glass 
rose water, one-half ounce mace, one-half nutmeg, one-half 
ounce cloves, one small teaspoon baking powder to each 
cup of flour. 

Charlotte Riisse Cake. 

Miss Ada Simonds. 

Six eggs, reserving whites of four, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one tablespoon butter, one-third cup milk, two cups 
flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder ; flavor to taste; 
bake in layers. 

Custard for the above. 

To one pint of milk add two tablespoons corn starch ; 
when well cooked, take from the stove and add when cooled 
a little, the fonr whites, well beaten, stir well, sweeten and 
flavor. 

Carolina Cake. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, four cups 
sifted flour, one-half cup butter, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der ; flavor to taste. Very nice for layer cakes or baked in 
gem tins. 

Carolina Cake. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

One cup butter, two cups white sugar, four cups sifted 
flour, one cup milk, three teaspoons baking powder, whites 
of eight eggs. 

Plaid Cake. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

Cut ordinary fruit cake in small cubes; mix it through 
the above Carolina cake, and bake all together in a long 
tin and slice. 



CAKES. 75. 

Vanity Cake. 

Miss A. M. Lewis. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sweet milk, three eggs, one 
and one-half cups sugar, two cups flour, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder ; take out enough for one layer, add one cup of 
chopped raisins, one teasjDOon cinnamon, one of nutmeg, 
one of allspice, and make this the center layer; put to- 
gether with jelly or frosting. 

Custard for Cake.— Cold. 

Miss A. M. Lewis. 

One-half cup sour cream, one cup sugar, yolk of one egg, 
beaten together; the whites of two eggs beaten separately, 
one-fourth pound almonds. 

Same — Hot. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons corn starch, one egg, one 
pint sweet milk, a little butter; when almost cold add co- 
coanut and lemon flavoring. 

Rose Custard for Cake. 

Mrs. N. Z. Canfield, Buffalo. 

Mix together one-fourth ounce powdered alum, one- 
fourth ounce cream tartar, one ounce powdered cochineal, 
four ounces loaf sugar, one-half teaspoon soda; boil ten 
minutes in one pint of hot water; when cold, bottle and 
cork tightly. One teaspoonful for a cake. 



76' ICING For cake. 



ICING FOR CAKE. 

Boiled Frosting. 

Mrs. Asa Bailey. 

Four cups sugar, two-thirds cup boiling water ; boil till 
it snaps ; add whites of four well beaten eggs, and beat un- 
til cold. 

Icing. 

Mrs. Wm. Gibson. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup water; boil 
three minutes, and when cool add whites of three eggs 
slightly beaten ; beat till cold, then spread. 

Boiled Frosting. 

Mrs. E. A. Sheldon. 

Boil to soft wax one cup sugar in enough water to dis- 
solve it; beat white of one egg and stir the sugar in slowly 
while hot ; stir until cool and flavor. 

Icing for Orange Cake. 

Mrs. M. E. Galpin. 

Beat whites of two eggs stiff", add juice and rind of one 
orange and thicken with sugar ; spread between laj-ers and 
on top. 

Boiled Frosting. 

Mrs. W. P. Howland. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff frost, two cups 

granulated sugar, six tablespoons hot water ; moisten sugar 

with water and boil without stirring till it ropes; pour 

upon the beaten egg and stir until cold. 



COOKIES. 77 



COOKIES. 

Cookies. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugjar, half a teaspoon soda 
dissolved in one tablespoon of railk, two eggs; flavor with 
lemon ; roll soft. 

" Red Brook " Cookies. 

Mrs. J. A. Hervey. 

Ten spoonfuls sugar, two eggs, six spoonfuls melted but- 
ter, four spooufuls sour milk, one teaspoon soda ; work soft 
and roll thin ; bake in a quick oven. 

Cookies. 

Mrs. W. Gibson. 

One cup sugar, one egg, one cup cream, half a teaspoon 
soda, a little salt. 

Cookies. 

Mrs. M. H. King. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, two tablespoons 
sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoon cream tartar, half a tea- 
spoon soda ; mix stiff, roll thin. 

Cookies. 

Mrs. "W. H. Euggles. 

One and one-half cups sugar, half cup butter, one cup 
sweet cream, two eggs, one-half teaspoon soda ; season with 
nutmeg ; mix soft, roll out and bake in a quick oven. 

Cookies. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, half cup cream, or quarter 
cup sweet milk, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar; flavor with nutmeg. 

Water Cookies. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman' Sr. 

One cup sugar, one cup shortening, one nutmeg, one tea- 
spoon soda, two-thirds cup cold water. 

Cookies. 

Miss Flora Lindsley. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, one-quarter 
teaspoon soda. 



78 COOKIES. 

Cookies. 

Mrs. E. J. Wilder. 

One egg, one cup butter, one cup sugar, three tablespoons 
milk. 

Cream Cookies. 

Mrs. B. C Bowman, Jr. 

Two cujDS sugar, one cup butter ; stir to a cream ; one 
cup milk, one egg ; flavor with nutmeg; three tablespoons 
baking powder. Make the dough soft as possible, cut in 
squares, and dip in a plate of sugar ; bake in a quick oven. 

Seed Cakes. 

Miss R. P. Dean. 
One cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one cup 
milk, one teaspoon soda, one large spoonful caraway seed, 
two eggs ; roll thin, cut out and bake in a quick oven. 

Cookies. 

Mrs. M. E. Gaipin. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour cream, one 
lemon, juice and rind, two eggs, cream, butter and sugar; 
add cream with one small teaspoon of soda dissolved in it ; 
the beaten egg and lemon mix as soft as possible. The 
lemon may be left out and nutmeg or other seasoning sub- 
stituted. 

Cookies without Eggs. 
Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One cup cream, one-half cup butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one teaspoon soda, nutmeg. 

Sugar Drops. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

Stir to a cream three ounces of butter a ad six ounces of 
pounded sugar, then add three beaten eggs, one-half pound 
flour and half of a nutmeg. Drop this mixture in large 
spoonfuls on buttered plates, taking care to have them sev- 
eral inches apart ; sprinkle small sugar plums on the tops 
and bake directly. 



GINGER COOKIES, 79 



GINGER COOKIES. 

Crin^er Cookies. 

Mrs. E. A. Sheldon. 

One cup sugar, one of butter, one of molasses, one table- 
spoon ginger, one of cinnamon, two teaspoons saleratus dis- 
solved in three tablespoonfuls of hot water ; bake quick. 

Grinj^er Cikes. 

Mrs. W. H. Ruggles. 
One cup New Orleans molasses, half cup lard, one table- 
spoon ginger, one large teaspoon soda ; heat the molasses 
and lard together, jDut in your soda, pour into the flour and 
mix ; cut with a knife into square cakes. 

Molasses Cakes. 

Mrs. E. J. Betts. 

Two cups molasses, ten tablespoons water, eleven table- 
spoons butter, three tablespoons brown sugar, one table- 
spoon ginger, three teaspoons soda. 

Ging-er Drop Cakes. 

Mrs. W. H. Ruggles. 

One cup best New Orleans molasses, half cup butter, half 
cup water, three cups flour, two teaspoons of ginger, one 
teaspoon soda. Drop with a spoon on a buttered tin. 

Ginj?er Drops. 

Mrs. E. L. Lampson. 

One-half cup lard, one cup brown sugar, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, two eggs, one 
teaspoon ginger; grease the dripping-j^an well, make the 
batter so that it will drop from the sjDoon in drops not quite 
as large as an egg. 

Graham Cookies. 

Mrs. T. Fricker. 

One cup sugar, one cup sour cream, teaspoon soda, little 
salt, one egg or none, and mix soft with sifted Graham 
flour. 

Graham Cookies. 

Mrs. "W. P. Howland. 

One coffee cup sugar, half teacup water, half teaspoon 
soda, butter size of an egg. Graham flour to mix soft. 

7 



80 GINGER COOKIES. 

Gringer Snaps. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 
One-half cup butter, or pork drippings, one-half cup sugar, 
one cup molasses, one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon sal- 
eratus, and flour enough to make them hard. 

Giuger Snaps. 

Mrs, B. W. Bowman. 

Two cups New Orleans molasses, one cup lard and mo- 
lasses scalded together, one teaspoon ginger, two tea- 
spoons soda, one teaspoon salt, three tablespoons hot water. 

Nice (xinger Snaps. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

One pound sugar, one pint molasses, three-fourths pound 
butter, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons saleratus, one 
tablespoon cinnamon, one tablespoon ginger; make stiff 
with flour, roll thin, bake quick. 

Spiced Ginger Snaps. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

Two cups syrup, one and one-half cups sugar, half cup 
melted butter, three teaspoons ginger, two of cinnamon, 
two of alls})ice, two of cloves, two teaspoons soda dissolved 
in four tablespoons hot water; knead in flour till the dough 
is quite stiff", rub the tins eacli time they are filled with 
fresh lard, bake a light brown and remove from the tins as 
soon as taken from the oven ; j^rick each one two or three 
times with a fork before putting in the oven. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Mrs. C. C. Woodruff. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup shortening, five 
large spoons boiling water, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
ginger. 

Lemon Snaps. 

Mrs. E. B. Leonard. 

One coffee cup sugar, a little more than half a cup butter, 
two eggs, two tablespoons hot water, half teaspoonful soda, 
flavor with lemon, roll thin. 



GINGER BREAD. 81 



GINGER BREAD. 

Ciriuger Broad. 

Mrs. D. A. Prentice. 

One cup molasses, half cup sugar, three tablespoons cold 
shortening, three cups flour, two teaspoons soda, one cup 
boiling water poured over the whole ; ginger and salt to 
taste; bake slowly; excellent with coffee. 

Soft Criiiger Bread. 

Mrs. S. W. Dickinson. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one-half sour milk, 
two eggs, one teaspoon ginger, one large teaspoon soda, flour 
to thicken. 

Ginger Bread. 

Mrs. M. E. Galpin. 

One large cup molasses, one small cup sugar, small cup 
butter, one teas])Oon soda dissolved in one cup boiling wa- 
ter, one and one-half tablespoons ginger. 

Soft Ginger Bread. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One cup molasses, one cup butter, two of sugar, one cup 
milk, three of flour, four eggs, one tablespoon ginger, one- 
half of soda. 

Ginger Bread. 

Miss Ada Simonds. 

One cup molasses filled with brown sugar, one cup sour 
cream, one teaspoon soda, one heaping teaspoon ginger, one 
egg, two and one-half cups flour. If you have no cream, a 
cup of buttermilk with three tablespoons of butter may 
be substituted ; in this case use three cujjs of fiour.~ 
Ginger Cake. 

Mrs. W. H. Ruggles. 

One cup best New Orleans Molasses, one-half cup water? 
one-half cup butter, one teaspoon ginger, one-half teaspoon 
soda, two cups flour, one egg. 

Soft Ginger Bread. 

Mrs. E. B. Leonard. 

One cup molasses, four tablespoons melted butter or lard, 
one heaping teaspoon soda in one-half cup of quite Avarm 
water, one tablespoon ginger. Do not stir too stiff, and 
bake in flat tins. 



82 GINGER BREAD. 

Old-fashioned Ginger Bread. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Two cups New Orleans molasses, one cup melted butter, 
two eggs, two even tablespoons soda, dissolved in hot water, 
one tablespoon ginger, a little salt and flour sufiicient to 
roll out ; bake in two square tins, mark with a knife one- 
half inch a part on top. 

Another.— Good. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One pint molasses, one teacup melted butter, one-half 
teacup hot water with one teaspoon soda dissolved in it, 
two tablespoons ginger ; the whole mixed thoroughly with 
enough flour to roll out and cut into cards ; bake at once 
in quick oven. 

Card Ginger Bread. 

Mrs. T. Fricker. 

One and one-half cups molasses (New Orleans), one-half 
cup butter and lard mixed, butter and molasses boiled to- 
gether, two-thirds cup boiling water, one teaspoon soda, 
tablespoon ginger ; mix soft as possible. 

Soft Ginger Bread. 

Mrs. T. Fricker. 

One cup molasses, one cup sour cream, two and one-half 
cups flour, one egg, one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon gin- 
ger ; bake in two tins. 

Pop Overs. 

Mrs. McCall. 

One egg, beat very light, one cup sweet milk, one cup 
flour, a pinch of salt ; bake in a quick oven in small cups. 

Ginger Bread. 

Mifs Eliza Latham. 

Two cups molasses, one cup water ; stir with one cup of 
shortening; one even teaspoon alum dissolved in one-half 
pint of water, two large teaspoons soda, one spoon ginger, 
flour enough to make stiff; if lard is used add salt. 



DOUGHNUTS. 83 



DOUGHNUTS. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

One large pint bread sponge, two cups sugar, one-half 
cup shortening melted in a pint of milk, two eggs, two tea- 
spoons cinnamon, salt, mix moderately stiff. 

Donghuuts. ' 

Mrs. Henry Prentice. 

One large cup butter, two cups sugar, one pint light 
sponge, four eggs, one pint milk, one teaspoon soda, a little 
nutmeg ; let the dough rise twace. 

Dougiiuuts. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

One pint sweet milk, three eggs, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one nutmeg, five tablespoons melted butter, two and 
one-half quarts flour, mix well, three tablespoons baking 
powder. 

Doughnuts. 
Miss H. S. Kellogg. 

Two cups sugar, two cups sweet milk, two eggs, piece of 
butter size of an egg, three teaspoons baking powder, flour 
enough to make a soft dough. 

Ouick Fried Cakes. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

One-half pint buttermilk, three tablespoons butter, one 
egg, one cup sugar, one small teaspoon soda, cinnamon to 
flavor, flour to make a stiff dough ; fry with moderate heat. 

Fried Cakes. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one egg, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, one cup sweet milk. 

Fried Cakes. 

Miss A. M. Williams. 

Two cups sugar, one cui3 cream, two cups sour milk, two 
eggs, two nutmegs, two teaspoons soda, two of salt ; mix 
soft. 



84 DOUGHNUTS. 

Soda Fried Cakes without Eggs. 

Mrs. E. F. Abell. 

One pint sweet milk, two cups sugar, six tablespoons 
melted butter, two teaspoons soda, four teaspoons cream tar- 
tar ; mix soft. If you like tbem shorter, add more butter. 
Fried Cakes. 

Mrs. S. A. Hervey. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups sour 
milk (thick), three eggs, six spoons melted lard, one and 
one-half teaspoons soda, a little salt and cinnamon. 
< Fried Cakes. 

Mrs. S, W. Dickinson. 

One cup sugar, butter the size of an egg, two eggs, one 
cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, a little salt and nutmeg, 
flour enough to knead well ; fry in hot lard. 

Fried Cakes. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 

One (juart flour, three teaspoons baking powder, three 
eggs, one cup sugar, butter the size of an egg; mix with 
water as soft as can be rolled. 



CRULLERS. 85 



CRULLERS. 

Crullers. 

One cup sugar, one cup sour milk, one egg, shortening 
the size of an £gg, one teaspoon soda, nutmeg or cinnamon 
to the taste. 

Crullers. 

Mrs. E. F, Mason. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, one tablespoons 
butter, two eggs, salt, one-quarter teaspoon saleratus. 

Crullers. 
Mrs. E.G. Wade. 

For each egg take a tablespoon of melted butter, one heap- 
ing tablespoon of sugar, flavor with lemon, using grated 
rind and a little juice, mix stiff enough to roll well, cut in 
fancy shapes and fry quickly. It will be necessary to have 
all rolled and cut before you begin to fry, as they need 
constant attention. 

Fritters. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

One cup thick sour milk, one half teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon salt, stir thick and drop with a spoon into hot lard. 

Fritters. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

One pint milk, three eggs, a little salt, one quart flour, 
one teaspoon bakingpowder, fry in hot lard. 



86 PIES. 



PIES. 



Pie Crust. 

To one i3int sifted flour add one even teaspoon baking 
powder and sweet cream enough to wet the .flour, leaving 
crust a little stifi". This is sufficient for two pies. 

Pie Crust. 

One coffee cuj) lard, three of sifted flour, and a little salt. 
Cut it well into flour with a knife, then mix with cold water 
quickly, handling as little as possible]; makes four pies. After 
rolling spread over butter and roll again, taking new slice 
of paste each time for top crust, the trimmings for under 
crust. 

(irrahaui Crust. 

Mix lightly one-half jDound Gi'aham flour, one-half pint 
sweet cream, one-half teaspoon salt, roll and bake like other 
pastr3^ 

Puff Paste. 

To every pound of flour, add three-fourths of a pound 
of butter, the yoke ,of an egg ; use ice cold water ; 
chop half of the butter into the flour; then stir in the 
beaten yolk and as much water as needed; work all into 
a dough, roll out thin, spread on some of the butter, fold 
closely, butter side in, and re-roll ; repeat this until the 
butter is all used up. Keej) the paste in a cool place until 
you wish to make it into patties or ]3ies. 

Pie Crust. 

One quart of flour, one-half pound lard, one-quarter pound 
butter, and with water knead until smooth; roll it out thin 
three times, touchi'ng it each time with the lard, sprink- 
ling it wdth flour, and rolling it up to be rolled again. 

Pie Crust Glaze. 

To prevent the juice soaking through into the crust and 
making it soggy, wet the crust with a beaten egg just be- 
fore you put in the pie mixture. If the top of the pie is 
wet with the egg ilb gives a beautiful brown. 

;, Lemou Cream Pie. 

•' • ' tr Mrs.. B W. Baldwin: 

One lemon grated, two eggs, two tablesjDOonfuls flour, one 
cup sweet milk ; mix the whole together, leaving out the 



PIES. 87 

whites for merangue ; beat whites of eggs with four table- 
spoonfuls sugar to a stiff froth ; place on top of pie when 
baked, and brown lightly in the oven. 

Lemon Pie. 

Mrs. E. B. Leonard. 

Grate one lemon, mixing the juice with the grated rind, 
one cup water, one of sugar, yolks of two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful butter, three tablespoons flour. Bake with only 
an under crust. When done beat the whites of two eggs 
with two tablespoons sugar, add a few drops of lemon and 
spread over the top; then return to the oven to brown 
lightly. This makes one pie and is very nice. 

Lemon Pie. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

One lemon, one cup sugar, one cup water, salt, one heap 
ing tablespoonful corn starch. 

Lemon Pie. 

Mra. D. L. Crosby. 

Grated peel and juice of one lemon, two cups sugar, three 
eggs, reserving the whites of two for frosting, two table- 
spoons corn starch dissolved in cold water, two cups boil- 
ing water; cook in a covered dish in boiling water. This 
will cook while the crusts are baking; when done fill the 
crusts. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add two tablespoons 
sugar, put on the top and set in the oven to brown. 

Lemon Cnstard Pie. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

One cup sugar, one cup water, one tablespoonful flour, 
three eggs, saving white of one for icing, two-thirds lemon, 
peel chopped fine, mix to a smooth paste. 

Icing. — White of one egg, a little sugar; flavor; spread 
on the top after it is baked. 

Lemon Pie. 

Mr . S. A. Northway. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup water, one grated 
lemon and a little butter. Baked in one crust. 

Lemon Pie. 

Mrs. T. Fricker. 

One tablespoon corn starch wet up with cold water ; pour 
cup of boiling water over it; add one cup sugar, juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, and last, one beaten egg. Bake 
with two crusts. 



88 PIES. 

Another Lemon Pie. 

Miss Fauny Dean. 

Take a large lemon and remove the peel and seeds, put 
into a bowl and add one cup of sugar and half of the peel 
chopped very fine, press as for lemonade, take four table- 
spoons of flour, add a little water, make a smooth batter 
and pour on it while stirring half a pint of boiling water, 
add it to the lemon and sugar, add the yolks of four eggs 
and the white of one well beaten; line two common sized 
pie pans with paste, fill in the mixture and bake. Beat 
the three remaining whites with four tablespoons pulver- 
ized sugar and a little lemon extract to a stiff" froth, spread 
it on the top of the pies, put them in the oven and brown 
lightly. 

Lemon Pie. 
Mrs. Lucien Gage. 

One lemon, one cup raisins chopped fine ; add two cups 
sugar, one-half cup molasses, one tablespoon corn starch, 
beat well together; add one cup boiling water. Dissolve 
corn starch in a little w'ater. 

Cream Pie. 

Six eggs, two cups sugar, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 
one teaspoonful soda, dissolve in two teaspoonfuls cold milk, 
two cups sugar; rub the cream tartar in the flour and add 
the soda when it is ready to bake. This makes three pies. 
Split them Avhen cold and put in this cream : 

One pint milk, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup flour (or 
one tablespoonful corn starch), two eggs. Beat eggs, sugar 
and flour together and pour into the boiling milk; stir 
constantly over boiling water until thickened; flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. 

Cream Pie. 

Miss Ada Simoiids. 

One cup of sweet cream, two spoonfuls flour, three spoon- 
fuls sugar; season with lemon. 

Cream Pie. 

Mrs E. J. Betts. 

One cup milk, one teacup sugar, two tablespoonfuls corn 
starch, yolks of two eggs; let the milk boil, stir in the 
starch, then beat in the eggs and sugar. Bake the crust 
thin, put in the custard, and bake while preparing the 
meringue. 



PIES. 89 

Meringue. — Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth 
and add a little pulverized sugar : pour over the pie, then 
return to the oven to brown. Flavor custard to taste. 

Custard Pie. 

Miss Ada Simonds. 

To one pint of milk add yolks of three eggs and white of 
one well beaten with two tablespoons of sugar; flavor with 
nutmeg or vanilla, and fill the crusts as usual ; when baked 
cover immediately with meringue and set back in the oven 
a moment to brown lightly. 

The meringue is made of the remaining whites beaten 
very lightly and sweetened with two desertspoonfuls of 
sugar. 

Cream Currant Pie. 

Mrs. T. Fricker. 

One cup currants, one cup cream, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoon corn starch or one egg. Bake with two crusts. 

New Eu^land Mince Pie. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Four pounds meat boiled and chopped, three pounds 
suet boiled and chopped, four pounds raisins stoned and 
chopped, one-half pound citron, five jDounds sugar, one 
quart molasses, one quart boiled cider, eight pounds crack- 
ers; mix cider and molasses together, add to the mixture 
five teaspoons ground cloves and ten of ground cinnamon, 
five of ground mace, one of black pepper, and six table- 
spoons of salt. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly to- 
gether, and when making the pies, add bits of butter and 
a few whole raisins, and grate nutmeg on each. 

Summer Mince Pie. 

Mrs. Asa Bailey. 

One and two-thirds cups crackers rolled fine, one cup rai- 
sins chopped fine, one cup whole raisins, one cup sugar, one 
cup* molasses, two cups hot water, one-half cup butter, two- 
thirds cup vinegar, two teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon 
cloves; makes three pies. 

Mince Pie. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

Two and one-half bowls meat, five bowls chopped apples, 
one pound raisins, one pound currants, one pint syrup, 
three cups sugar, one cup vinegar, one tablespoon lemon 
extract, add water till thin enough to bake. If you have 
boiled cider, use in place of vinegar and water. 



90 PIES. 

Mock Mince Pie. 

Mrs. W. P. Howland. 

One cup molasses, one cup vinegar (not too strong), one 
cup sugar, one cup raisins, one cup bread-crumbs, one table- 
spoon cloves, one tablespoon cinnamon, one nutmeg, butter 
size of a butternut. 

Apple or Peach Meringue Pie. 

Stew the apples or peaches, and sweeten to taste. Mash 
smooth and season with nutmeg. Fill the crusts and bake 
until just done. Put on no top crust. 

Take the whites of three eggs for each pie and whip to a 
stiff froth, and sweeten with three tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar. Flavor with rose water or vanilla; beat until it 
will stand alone, then spread it on the pie one-half to one 
inch thick, and set back into the oven until the meringue 
is well "set.-' Eat cold. 

Dried Peach Pie. 

Miss Fannie Dean. 

Soak the peaches over night; in the morning stew soft ; 
make them quite juicy ; slice into these one-third as 
much green pieplant as there is of the peaches ; make 
the paste in the usual manner, and when the fruit is filled 
into the under crust, dredge it well with flour, cover and 
bake. This makes a better pie than either the peaches or 
pieplant alone. 

Pnnipkin Pie. 

Mrs. S. A. i^orthway. 

One pint stewed ])umpkin, four eggs, one quart milk, 
one large cup sugar, one-half tablespoon ginger, grate a little 
nutmeg over the pie when ready to put in the oven. This 
will make two pies. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

One quart pumpkin, one quart milk, two cups sugar, 
four eggs, one tablespoon cinnamon, one teaspoon ginger, 
one nutmeg. 

German Pie. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

Under crust.— A little sifted flour, apples, sliced quite 
thick, butter, sugar, tablespoon water, nutmeg or cinna- 
mon ; bake the last few minutes with a tin over the top. 



PIES. 91 

Silyer Pie. 

Mrs, E. F. Abell. 

One large jwtato peeled and grated, the juice and grated 
rind of a lemon, the whites of two eggs well beaten, one 
cup water; beat well together and bake with one crust. 
When done, beat the whites of two or three eggs to a stiff 
froth with nearly one-half cup of fine sugar ; set in the 
oven to brown lightly. Be sure and not grate the potatoes 
till you want to use them, as they turn black. 

Shells for Tarts. 

Cut with biscuit cutter nice pufi" paste, then with a wine 
glass or smaller cutter, cut out center of two out of three 
of these ; lay the rings thus made on the third aiid bake 
at once ; filled with jelly and covered with a merinsue 
made of tablespoon, of sugar to white of one egg, then 
browned in oven. 

Almond Tarts. 

Three eggs, one-fourth pound sugar beaten to a cream ; 
add one-half pound shelled almonds jwunded slightly ; bake 
eight minutes. 

Apple Pie. 

Pare, core and slice ripe, tart apples ; line your dish with 
a good crust and fill with the sliced apples; cover lightly 
with crust and bake. When it is done, slip a knife under 
the edge of the upper crust and remove it. Sweeten the 
apple to taste, stir in a teaspoonful of butter and season 
with nutmeg, then rej^lace the crust. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Skin the stalks with care, cut into small pieces ; pour 
boiling water over the pieces and let it stand till you are 
ready to use. Having prepared your crust, fill it with the 
scalded fruit ; over this grate the rind of one lemon and 
add a very little of the lemon juice; add one teacup sugar 
for a pie of the common size tins, and strew generously 
with flour ; cover with a crust, fastening it carefully at the 
edges, and bake. 



92 PUDDINGS. 



PUDDINGS. 

In boiling pudding, have plenty of water in the pot boil- 
ing when the pudding is put in, and do not let it stop; 
add more as it is needed. Turn the pudding frequently. 
If a cloth is used, dip the pudding (when done) into a pan 
of cold water, so that it can be removed easily. 

In using molds, grease well with butter, tie the lid 
closel}", and set in a .pot with very little water, and add 
more as needed. 

Fruit sauces are nice for blanc-mange and corn starch 
puddings. 

Fresh red cherries, stewed, sweetened and passed through 
a sieve, and slightly thickened with corn starch, make a 
good sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Miss H. S. Kellogg. 

One quart milk, one pint sifted flour, five eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately, the whites stirred in just be- 
fore going into the oven. Bake one hour. Serve with 
sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Mrs. Asa Bailey. 

One pint flour, one cup sugar, one egg, piece of butter 
size of an egg, one cup sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder. Mix like cake ; bake and serve while warm 
with liquid sauce. 

Congress Pudding. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one pint bread crumbs; 
boil one quart milk and pour over the above : mix well to- 
gether, add the beaten yolks of four eggs, and bake three- 
quarters of an hour. When baked spread jelly over the 
top, and over that the whites of four eggs beaten with four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Set in the oven to brown. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Take tart, mellow apples, pared, remove the core and fill 
the place with sugar; then take one quart of flour, two or 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and one-half table- 
spoonful of shortening; mix with sweet milk or water — 



PUDDINGS. 93 

mix soft as possible — and roll it out ; cut in squares of suf- 
ficient size to roll the apples in, set on plate and place in 
steamer. 

Apple Shortcake. 

To one quart of sifted flour add two small teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of salt; mix it with 
sweet milk in which one small teaspoonful of soda has been 
mixed, after dissolving in water. Roll out the dough, and 
put a teacupful of butter on it in small bits, and roll them 
in thoroughly. Bake'the dough in two pieces. Split open 
each cake, spread with butter quickly, and cover with 
apple jam, or any kind of apple sauce. Pour some sweet 
cream over the top of the apple, grate nutmeg over it, and 
cover with the other half, placed crust side down ; spread 
it with butter, and proceed as before. You can make this 
shortcake of one layer of apple jam, or one with three lay- 
ers. It makes a delicious dessert dish, and a good relish 
for the tea table. 

Southern Rice Pudding. 

One quart fresh milk, one cup raw rice, two tablespoon- 
fuls butter, one cup of sugar, four eggs, beaten light, grated 
peel of half a lemon, pinch of cinnamon and the same of 
mace. Soak the rice in the milk for two hours in a farina- 
kettle, surrounded by warm water. Then increase the 
heat, and simmer until the rice is tender. Cream, butter 
and sugar, and whisk into the eggs, until very light. When 
the rice is almost cold, stir all together, and bake in a but- 
tered dish three-quarters of an hour. Eat warm with 
sauce, or cold with sugar and cream. 

Rice Pudding. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Boil one-half cuj) of rice and one cup of raisins in one qt. 
of milk until soft; beat yolks of four eggs with six table- 
spoonfuls of sugar into the hot milk and rice after it is tak- 
en from the fire. Pour into a pudding dish and spread 
over the top a meringue made of the four whites beaten 
stiff with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and flavored with 
vanilla or lemon. To be eaten cold. 

Lemon Rice Pudding. 

Miss E. Latham. 

Boil one cup rice in one pint of water until dry: add one 
quart milk ; boil until thick. Then add the yolks of three 
eggs beaten with six tablespoons sugar and rind of one 



94 PUDDINGS. 

lemon. Mix well and turn into a pudding dish. Beat the 
whites to a froth, add six tablespoons sugar, juice of one 
lemon, and si)read over pudding. Brown in the oven. 

Rice Pudding. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

One teacup rice, one quart milk, one-half cup sugar, three 
eggs, a little salt. Put the rice on the stove with the milk 
and let it cook slowly till nearly dry. Then add the yolks 
of the eggs well beaten with the sugar. Beat the whites 
stiff, add a spoonful of sugar: spread it over the top and set 
in the oven to brown. Serve warm with jelly. 

English Pudding. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

Three cups sweet milk, one cup molasses, five cups flour, 
two cups seeded raisins, three teaspoons soda dissolved 
in water, two teaspoons melted butter, two teaspoons cin- 
namon, a little cloves and salt. Boil three hours in a pail 
set in water. 

English Plum Pudding. 

Mrs. J. A. Howells. 

One pound plums, one pound raisins, one pound beef suet, 
one ounce citron, one ounce orange peel, one ounce candied 
lemon, six ounces flour, four ounces bread crumbs, eight 
eggs, and a little milk ; steam four hours. 
Fig Pudding. 

Take half a pound of the best figs, wash them and chop 
them fine, two teacups grated breacl (crusts for one may be 
used), one-half cup sweet cream, one cup sweet milk, one-half 
cup sugar; mix the bread-crumbs with the cream, then 
stir in the figs, then the sugar and the last thing get in the 
milk ; pour into a mold or a pudding-dish and steam for 

three hours. 

Steamed Pudding. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Three eggs, well beaten, two tablespoons sugar, two table- 
spoons butter, three-fourths cup sweet milk, one cup chop- 
ped raisins, two cups flour ; steam one and one-fourth hours. 

Steamed Pudding. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One quart flour, two cups sweet milk, one cup suet chop- 
ped fine, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, a little 
salt. Mix and put in a basin closely covered ; place in a 
steamer and cook three hours. 



PUDDINGS. ■ 9*5 

Steamed Pudding. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Two cups sour milk, one and one-half cup Indian meal, 
two cups wheat flour, one-half cup chopped raisins, one 
teaspoon soda, a little salt. Eat with sweetened cream. 

Steamed Blackberry Pudding. 

One quart berries, one and one-fourth pounds flour, two 
gills beef suet, two gills molasses, two gills milk, two gills 
brown sugar, one teaspoon soda dissolved in one teaspoon 
boiling water. Mix the sugar, molasses, suet and milk to- 
gether, then add flour and fruit alternately; butter the 
mould before putting the pudding in and steam three 
hours. To be eaten with hard sauce. It may be steamed 
in a two quart basin. It is good the next day sliced and 
fried. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs light, add two cups sugar, 
dissolve four tablespoons corn starch in a little cold water, 
stir into two teacups boiling water, put in juice of two 
lemons with a little grated peel ; mix all together with 
one teaspoon butter and bake fifteen minutes; when done, 
spread over the top the beaten whites and brown in oven. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 
Three tablespoons tapioca soaked eight hours, one pint 
milk, two eggs (save the white of one to put over the pud- 
ding), sweeten to taste, raisins, salt and lemon ; bake three- 
fourths of an hour. 

Tapioca Pudding. 
Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Eight tablespoons tapioca soaked in water three hours, 
five eggs, one quart milk, two tablespoons butter and a lit- 
tle nutmeg ; bake three-fourths of an hour. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Mr8. S. A. Northway. 

Three tablespoons tapioca soaked until soft, one quart 
milk, put in a double kettle or a pitcher set in boiling wa- 
ter ; when the tapioca is sufficiently tender, add the beaten 
yolks of three eggs, a small teacup of sugar, and a little 
salt. Stir this into the boiling milk, season with vanilla; 
pour one-half into a dish, then add the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a froth ; pour the remainder on top. Eaten cold, 
it is very nice. 
9 



96 PUDDINGS. * 

Tapioca and Apple. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Pare and core one dozen large apples (taking care not to 
break the apples) ; fill the hole with sugar, a very little but- 
ter and cinnamon ; pour over them a preparation of one- 
half cup tapioca soaked in water over night, in one pint 
of water. Bake three-fourths of an hour ; serve with sugar 
and cream. 

Peach Tapioca. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

Soak a teacupful of tapioca until soft, then add alter- 
nately in a deep dish, tapioca, peaches and sugar, a little 
butter and a sprinkle of salt. Fresh or canned peaches 
may be used; if fresh ones, pour a half cup of water over 
the top; if canned ones, use the juice: it is richer. The 
whites of three eggs beaten and browned on the top are an 
improvement. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway, 

One quart milk, four eggs, five tablespoons corn meal, 
one-half teacup sugar, and a little nutmeg. Boil the milk 
and scald the meal in it. Let it cool before you add the 
eggs. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Old-Fasliioned Indian Pudding-. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Boil one quart sweet milk, stir in gradually seven table- 
spoons corn meal, add one pint molasses, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, and one quart cold milk; stir thoroughly ; butter 
the dish in which it is to be baked, and bake two hours. 
Baked Indian Pudding. 
Mrs. J. E. Allen 

Scald one quart milk, add seven tablespoons corn meal 
■ while hot; when cool, add one-half cup sugar, one egg, one 
teaspoon salt, ginger or cinnamon. 

Batter Pudding-. 

Mrs. S. W. Dickinson. 

One quart milk, eight eggs beaten very light, eight ta- 
blespoons flour, a little salt. Bake and serve immediately 
with liquid sauce. 

Ginger Pudding. 

Mrs. E. A. Sheldon. 

One egg, one cup molasses, one-half cup fruit, one-half cup 
hot water, one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon soda; stir 
stiff and steam one hour. 



PUDDINGS. 97 

Roly-Poly Pudding. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

Make a light paste as for pie crust, or better still, as for 
short-cake, roll out, spread with fruit, either fresh or pre- 
served ; roll up, fastening ends tightly ; steam or bake ; eat 
with cream and sugar, or any liquid sauce. 

Sour Cream Pudding-. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

One pint flour, one pint sour cream, one pint milk, six 
eggs, well beaten, add cream Avith just enough soda to 
sweeten, the last thing before baking; bake one-half hour. 

Paste Pudding-. 

Mrs. C. S. Simonds. 

Six tablespoons flour, six tablespoons sugar, six eggs, mix 
flour with milk like starch, then pour on a quart of boiling 
milk. Let it cool before adding the rest; bake half an 
hour, eat with hard sauce. 

Paste Pudding-. 
This pudding is very good mixed like the one above, but 
made with six spoons flour, four spoons sugar, four eggs^ 
one quart milk. 

Apple Pudding. 

Mrs. D. C. Lewis, Mt. Vernon. 

Peel and quarter six good-sized apples and put in a dish 
with a little water, one pint of flour with one heaping tea- 
spoonful baking jxjwder well stirred through the flour, one 
egg, and one teacup of sweet milk ; stir to a batter and pour 
over the apples. Set the dish on the stove, tightly covered 
for twenty minutes, loosen with a knife at the edge, and 
place a plate on it and turn bottom upward on the plate. 
Eat with sugar and cream. 

Snow Pudding. 

Mrs. H. P. Wade. 

One-half box Cox's gelatine, pour over it one-half pint of 
cold water, and let stand one hour; then pour over it one- 
half pint of boiling water, one-half pound of sugar, juice of 
two lemons. Let cool, and when like thin jelly or boiled 
custard, take whites of three eggs beaten stifi' and mix 
thoroughly, then turn into moulds. 
Spanish Cream. 

Mrs. H. P. Wade. 

One-half box Cox's gelatine, one small cup of sugar, yolks 
of three eggs, one quart of milk. Soak gelatine in milk one 



98 PUDDINGS. 

hour, then put it over the fire and let scald, then stir in 
eg^s and sugar after being well beaten, and let come to a 
boiling point, but not boil. Flavor with vanilla and pour 
into moulds. 

Oraiigo Piiddhig, 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Pare and slice six oranges and lay in pudding dish; 
sprinkle nearly one cup of sugar over them. 

Make boiled custard of one quart of milk, one cupful of 
sugar, yolks of three eggs, and two tablespoonfuls corn 
starch. When nearly cool, pour over the oranges; Beat 
whites to a stiff froth, spread on plate and brown slightly 
in the oven ; then carefully spread over pudding. 

Black Pudding. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one-half cup but- 
ter, two and one-half cups flour, one cup raisins, one tea- 
spoon each of soda, cinnamon and allspice. Steam two 
hours. Eat with cream and sugar or maple syrup. 

Corn Starch Pndding. 

Mrs, Alice Baldwin. 

Boil one quart of milk, then beat the yolks of four esrgs 
with four tablespoonfuls of corn starch and a little milk; 
stir into the boiling milk, let it boil up once, and turn into 
a pudding dish ; then beat the whites of the eggs to a froth 
and add four spoonfuls of powdered sugar; cover the pud- 
ding with the mixture, and set in the oven and brown 
lightly. Flavor with vanilla or lemon; the frosting is im- 
proved by adding a flavor to it. 

Suet Pudding. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

One cup sugar, one cup chopped suet, one cup water, 
three cups flour, one teaspoonful ijinger, teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful salt, one cup chopped raising; steam two 
hours in two quart basin. Eat with jell}' sauce. 

Rich Suet Pudding. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

One and one-half cups zante currants, one cup raisins, 
one cup brown sugar, one cup flour, one cup suet — chopped 
fine — one cup cider, yolks of tliree eggs, one and one-half 
teaspoons soda. Steam three hours in two quart basin with 
cloth tightly tied over the top. 



PUDDINGS. 99 

Suet Pudding:. 

Mrs. C. S. Simonds. 

One cup suet, chopped fine, one cup raisins chopped, one 
cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, three 
and one-half cups flour. Steam three hours. 

Suet Pudding. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway, and Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

One cup suet chopped fine, one cup molasses, one cup 
sweet milk, four cups flour, one cup raisins (not chopped,) 
one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
salt. Steam in a pudding dish or boil in a bag three hours, 
or steam two and one-half hours, then bake one-half hour. 

Suet Pudding. 

Mrs. II. P. Wade. 
One teacup of suet, one and one-half cups of raisins chop- 
ped, two teacups of sugar, one and one-half of milk, tea- 
spoon salt, and one of soda. Make as thick as cup cake, 
and boil three hours. 

* Bread Pudding. 

Mrs. E. F. Abell. 

One quart milk, one cup sugar, one pint bread-crumbs, 
three eggs (saving the white of one to use for the top when 
baked). Cranberries on the top under the meringue are 
nice. 

Steamboat Pudding. 

Mrs. E. L, Lanipson. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one and one-half cups 
flour, four eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, raisins and 
currants if you wish. Steam three-quarters of an hour; 
eat with liquid sauce. 

Cake Pudding. 

Mrs. C. S. Simonds. 

Three tablespoons melted butter, mix while warm with 
one cup powdered sugar, one pint sifted flour, one cup 
sweet milk, one egg, two teaspoons cream tartar, one tea- 
spoon soda; beat hard and bake twenty minutes in a small 
oval or round dish. Eat with liquid sauce. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. 

Miss R. P. De<in. 

Pare and core eight or ten pleasant apples, leaving them 
whole. Make a batter of one cup buttermilk, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, a little salt, one egg, and flour enough to make 



100 PUDDINGS. 

it stiff. Place the apples in a pudding dish, pour the bat- 
ter over them and steam one hour. Serve with sweet sauce 
or cream and sugar. 

Baked Blackberry Pudding. 

Mrs. Rockafeller. 

One-fourth pound butter, one pound brown sugar, six 
ounces flour, four eggs, one quart blackberries, cream the 
butter, add the sugar gradually, then the yolks of the eggs; 
beat until very light, beat the whites to a stiff froth, add 
them alternately to the flour; stir the blackberries very 
gently into the batter, pour it into a buttered pudding- 
dish, and bake an hour. To be eaten hot, with wine sauce 
or fairy butter. 

Whortleberry Pudding-. 
Mrs. E. f! Abell. 

One pint molasses, one teaspoon soda well beaten into the 
Molasses, add a little salt, one teaspoon of ground cinna- 
mon, one teaspoon of cloves, three pints of berries and flour 
to make a stiff batter; boil three hours. Serve with sauce. 



PUDDING SAUCE. 101 



PUDDING SAUCE. 

Pudding Sauce No. 1. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One cup sugar, one cup water, one-half cup butter, one 
tablespoon flour ; boil and flavor to taste. 

Pnddiiij^ S.iuce No. 2. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Two eggs well beaten, one cup sugar, one cup butter (one- 
half will do), one and one-half cups boiling water; scald, 
but do not boil ; flavor to taste, two tablespoons cider vine- 
gar, or juice of a leraon. 

Pudding: Sauce No. 3. 

Mrs.S. A. Northway. 

Beat one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, with enough 
nutmeg to flavor, and six eggs. Then make a very thin 
gravy with one and one-half cups hot water ; when this has 
boiled sufficiently, strain it on the other ingredients and 
whip it well. You can use an acid if you like. 

Sauce for Ginger Pudding. 

Mrs. E. A. Sheldon. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one and one-half tablespoons lemon; pour boil- 
ing water over it until it is like thin starch. 

Hard Sauce. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

Stir to a cream one and one-half cups sugar and one-half 
cup butter, smooth into a good form and grate nutmeg over 
the top. 

Or, if you prefer, you can beat in the juice of a lemon 
and color with the rind. It may be colored with chocolate 
when that flavor is desirable. It will be more ornamental 
colored with cherry, currant or cranberry juice and ar- 
ranged in alternate lines of pink and white. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Mrs. S. W. Dickinson. 

One and one-half cups light brown sugar, one tablespoon 
corn starch, one tablespoon butter, two tablespoons vine- 
gar or juice of one lemon, two cups boiling water. Mix 
starch, sugar and butter well together, pour boiling water 
over and boil five minutes. 



102 PUDDING SAUCE. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Stir to a cream one cup of sugar and one-third cup of 
butter, beat in the yolk of one egg, flavor ; then pour on 
one-half cup of hot but not scalded milk ; beat the white 
of one egg to a stiff froth and stir in lightly. 

Foam Sauce. 

One teacup white sugar, piece of butter size of an egg, 
beat together with one egg until it foams; add one ta- 
blespoon vinegar. Just before serving stir in a thin batter 
made with one teacup boiling water and a spoonful of flour. 
You can use any flavoring you choose in place of the wine. 

Sauce. 

Beat whites of three eggs to a stifl" froth, stir in three ta- 
blespoons of sugar ; make sauce just as you are to use it, 
not as good to stand. Flavor to taste ; a little vinegar im- 
proves it. 

Sauce. 

Take yolks of three eggs, one pint of milk, make a cus- 
tard or sauce of cream and sugar, flavor with lemon. 



AMBROSIA, CUSTARDS, &C. 103 



AMBROSIA, CUSTARDS, &c. 

Ambrosia. 

Mra. S. A. North way. 

One package of desicated cocoanut, six lemons and six 
oranges ; pare and slice the lemons and oranges ; put a 
layer of fine sugar in a dish, then a layer of lemons, a layer 
of cocoanut, then a layer of orange, then cocoanut and so 
on until the dish is filled ; put sugar between each layer. 

Ambrosia. 

Mrs, H. L. Hervey. 

Two cocoanuts, two pine-apples, six oranges ; pare and 
slice very thin the pine-apples and oranges ; grate the co- 
coanuts; put a layer of fine sugar in tne bottom of the 
dish, then one of cocoanut, then orange and more sugar 
and cocoanut ; next pine-apple, and so on till all is used, 
finishing with cocoanut and sugar. This is very nice for 
tea or evening company, and is best prepared several hours 
before using. 

Boiling' Rice. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Wash in three or four waters, removing all imperfect 
grains ; to one pint of rice put three pints of boiling wa- 
ter and a little salt ; let it boil seventeen minutes from the 
time it begins ; remove the lid and put it on the back of 
the range to dry out, thus securing the grains white, sepa- 
rate and dry. 

Angel's Food. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Make a rich custard, pour some in a glass dish ; put a 
a layer of sliced cake on it ; stir some finely powdered su- 
gar into quince or currant jelly and spread over the layer 
of cake ; pour on more custard, then another laj'er of cake 
and icing. 

Floating Island. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

One quart of sweet milk, sweeten to taste ; when boiling 
add one and one-half tablespoonfuls of corn starch dissolved 
in a little cold milk ; stir tliree minutes; remove from the 
fire, add the beaten yolks of five eggs, stirring briskly ; 
must be very smooth and soft ; flavor with one teaspoonful 



104 AMBROSIA, CUSTARDS, &C. 

of vanilla ; set aside to cool ; just before serving heat the 
whites of five eggs very stiff with three-fourths of a cup of 
currant and rasploerry jelly (one-half of each). Serve the 
ice cold custard in saucers and drop a large tablespoonful of 
the pink froth on each. 

Custard. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

One cup of milk for each person, heat until it boils, yolk 
of one egg for each cup of milk, cup of sugar to six cups of 
milk, three tablespoonfuls of corn starch to six cups, lemon 
and pinch of salt ; beat this and add when milk is boiling, 
boil two or three minutes, beat the whites of two eggs to a 
froth, add lemon and sugar to taste ; spread over the top. 
To be eaten cold. 

Blanc-Mange. 

Mrs. H. P. Wade. 

Season one quart of cre9.m or rich milk with five ounces 
of sugar and a few drops of vanilla, whip to a stiff froth ; 
after soaking one ounce of gelatine in one pint of cold wa- 
ter for one hour, let it simmer until perfectly dissolved, 
stirring often ; when lukewarm, pour the cream in and stir 
all the time till stiff enough to drop from a spoon, then 
pour into wet moulds. 

Croustades witli Stewed Fruit. 

Mary Hooper. 

Take a French roll a day old, cut off the crust, divide it 
into three equal portions ; with a sharp knife cut out the 
middle of each, so as to form a basket ; the sides of the 
croustades should be about the third of an inch thick ; have 
a stew-pan half full of fat, and which is hot enough to color 
the bread instantly, inimerse the croustades in it, and iu 
less than half a minute they will be done ; it is best to fry 
one or two at a time ; take them out of the fat with a wire 
spoon or a skimmer, and dry them on paper; now fill the 
croustades with stewed fruit of any kind, and serve imme- 
diately after filling. 

Apple Snow. 
Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Pare and core one dozen large apples ; put them in cold 
water and stew until soft ; pulp through a sieve and sweet- 
en to taste with white sugar. Put in a glass dish, beat the 
whites of twelve eggs to a froth with one-half pound of pul- 
verized sugar ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Pile this on 
the apple very high. A i)retty dish for tea. 



AMBROSIA, CUSTARDS, &C. 



105 



Iced Apples. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Pare and core one dozen large apples (punch out the core, 
taking pains not to break the apple,) ; fill with sugar, very 
little butter and cinnamon ; bake until nearly done ; let 
them cool, and if you can without breaking, put on an- 
other dish, prepare some icing, lay on top and sides, and 
set into the oven to brown slightly. Serve with cream. 
Fried Cream. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One pint of milk, a little more than one-half cup of su- 
gar, butter the size of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls of corn starch, and flour enough with it to 
make three-fourths of a cup, one stick of cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoonful of vanilla ; dissolve corn starch and flour 
in cold milk, add the sugar to the boiling milk, then the 
other ingredients; pour into a buttered dish andwhen 
cold slice and roll in sifted cracker-crumbs, then in egg 
slightly beaten, then in cracker-crumbs again ; drop them 
into hot lard ; they will cook in a moment ; sift powdered 
sugar over them, or they can be served with a sauce. 
Charlotte Russe. 

Mrs. French, Cleveland. 

One pint of good sweet cream, sweetened with one-half 
cup of sugar, whipped to a stiff froth ; dissolve two table- 
spoonfuls of Cooper's gelatine in warm water; when cool, add 
this to the beaten cream, and stir until it begins to thicken ; 
set upon the ice to cool. It should be flavored before the 
cream is beaten. 

Charlotte llusse. 

Mrs. Powers, Cleveland 

One pint of good cream beaten stiff, the whites of two 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth with one cup of sugar ; then 
put all together, flavoring to taste, and beat thoroughly ; 
stand ladies' fingers up around the sides of a deep dish, 
pour on the russe and set it on the ice to cool. The cream 
will thicken quicker if it stands on ice or snow while it is 
beaten. Or, you may use slices of sponge cake to line 
your mould, or a loaf of sponge cake may be used, cutting 
strips from it for the sides and leaving the crust for the 
top and bottom, each in one piece. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Miss Flora L ndsley. 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of tapioca over night in just 
enough water to cover ; then boil one quart of milk with 



106 AMBROSIA, CUSTARDS, &C. 

soaked tapioca in a pail, set in water ; add two-thirds of a 
cup of sugar and a little salt ; beat the yolks of three ejrgs 
thoroughly; Avhen boiled ten minutes, stir in the yolks^ 
and stir rapidly five minutes to prevent its curdling ; fla- 
vor, pour in pudding dish, beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, and pour over the top of the cream ; sift sugar 
over the top and brown a few minutes in an oven ; serve 
cold. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Mrs. J. C. A. Bushnell, 

Soak six tablespoonfuls of tapioca in water enough ta 
cover until soft ; add one quart of milk and put on top of 
the stove; beat the yolks of four eggs with four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; stir in the tapioca and cook until it 
thickens, stirring often ; beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth and add two teaspoonfuls of sugar ; spread on 
top and set in the oven a minute. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman. Jr. 

Put to soak over night three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in 
a little water or milk ; take one pint of milk, let it come 
to a boil, then stir in the tapioca, and let it boil two or 
three moments, or until it becomes clear ; beat the yolks of 
two eggs, add a little cold milk to them, then stir in the 
cream, sweeten and flavor to taste ; beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, add a little sugar ; put it on the cream 
and brown. 

Rice Custard. 

Mrs. B. W. Baldwin. 

Boil one-half teacupful of rice in one quart of milk uiitil 
soft; beat one cup of sugar and three eggs together thor- 
oughly, and add to the rice and milk ; boil until it begins 
to thicken but not curdle ; remove from the fire ; flavor and 
pour into glass dish to cool; eaten when very cold, with 
sponge cake, for lunch or tea. 

Apple Cream. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Boil twelve apples in water till soft, take off the peel and 
press the pulp through a hair sieve upon one-half pound 
of powdered sugar ; whip the whites of two eggs, add to the 
apples, beat all together till it becomes stiff" and looks quite 
white. Serve it heaped up on a dish with a rich custard 
or cream poured around it. 



AMBROSIA, CUSTARDS, &C. ] 07 

A Delicate Desert. 

Mrs. S. A. North way. 

Lay one-half dozen crackers in a tureen, pour enough boil- 
ing water to cover them. In a few minutes they will be 
swollen three or four times their original size; sprinkle 
fine sugar and a little nutmeg over them and cover with 
sweet cream. Serve as sauce for tea. 

Imitation Cream. 

Mrs. S. A. Northvvay. 

Beat two eggs, one ounce of pulverized sugar, a small 
piece of butter, with a pint of warm milk ; then set it in 
a water-bath and stir until it acquires the consistency of 
cream. 

Friar's Omelet. 

Stew six or seven good-sized apples as for apple sauce ; 
stir in when cooked and still warm, butter the size of a pig- 
eon's egg, and one cupful of sugar; when cold, stir in three 
well-beaten eggs and a little lemon juice. Now put a small 
piece of butter into a pan,. and when hot, throw in a cup- 
ful of bread-crumbs ; stir them over the fire until they as- 
sume a light brown color. Butter a mould and sprinkle 
crumbs on the bottom and sides, fill in with apple prepa- 
ration ; sprinkle top with bread-crumbs ; bake it for fifteen 
or twenty minutes, and turn it out on a good-sized platter. 
It can be eaten with or without sweet sauce. 

Ice Cream. 

Mrs. D. A. Prentice. 

No. 1. To make four quarts of ice cream, take two quarts 
of new milk, and with tbe yolks of five eggs and three ta- 
blespoonfuls of arrow-root and four cups of sugar, make a 
custard over a water-bath ; when cold, whip into it the 
whites of the eggs well beaten ; then add two quarts of 
rich cream, which, must be well beaten into the cus- 
tard. Strain and flavor to taste. This is very nice with- 
out arrow-root, and more milk can be used in place of the 
cream. 

No 2. Take one quart of cream, one and one-half cups of 
white sugar; flavor to taste; freeze and serve as usual. 
This is preferred by some to the cooked custard. 

Lemon Ice. 

Mrs. McCall. 
To one pint of lemon juice add one of water, in which 
the thin rind of three lemons has been steeped until highly 



108 AMBROSIA, CUSTARDS, &C. 

flavored ; when partly frozen, add the whites of four eggs, 
whisked to a stiff froth. 

Strawberry Frapees. 

Mrs. McCall. 

Line a mould with vanilla ice cream, then fill with fresh 
strawberries; cover with ice cream; cover the mould se- 
curely, and pack it in the freezer with pounded ice and 
salt ; let it remain from one-half to three-fourths of an hour, 
then serve. The fruit must not be frozen, but thoroughly 
chilled. Ripe peaches peeled and cut are delicious used in 
this way. 



PICKLES. 109 



PICKLES. 

Pickle Brine. 

Mrs. Asa Bailey. 

One gallon of water, one quart of salt, one pint of vine- 
gar, two tablespoonfuls of pulverized alum; wash pickles 
and put in brine as you gather them ; when for use, pour 
boiling water over them ; leave until cold, then wipe and 
put in vinegar. 

To Pxit Down Cucumbers for tlie Winter. 
Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

One gallon of vinegar, two gallons of water, two quarts 
of salt ; scald and skim; when cold, put in cucumbers; 
when the cucumbers are gathered from the vines pour boil- 
ing water on them and let them stand until cold. To 
freshen them, pour boiling hot water over them, and let 
them stand a day, then treat them as you would cucumbers 
that have been put down with salt. 

Green Color in Pickles. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

To impart a green color to pickles cover when taken from 
the vines with boiling hot salt and water, after a short time 
the water poured off and tlie pickles drained. They are 
then to be placed in an earthen pot and covered with boil- 
ing vinegar, the top put on and the whole kept at a warm 
temperature for a long time, the vinegar being poured off 
every day and heated to boiling and turned upon the pick- 
les again. This is repeated until they are a beautiful 
green. This vinegar is then poured off, replaced by fresh 
and the jar tightly closed. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Mrs. E. F. Abell. 

Make a strong brine and cover them with it three or four 
days, turning them up from the bottom every morning. 
Then scald vinegar enough to cover them ; whole pepper, 
cinnamon and mustard seed, a tablespoonful of each, to one 
and a half gallons of vinegar; take the cucumbers from the 
brine, drain or dry them on a cloth; pack them in a jar 
that is to be used, and pour the vinegar scalding hot over 
them; let them remain two days, pour off the vinegar, 
scald again, adding a piece of alum the size of a hickory 



110 PICKLES. 

nut to make them crisp. The best cider vinegar should be 
used. After two days break one open, and if not green 
through, scald them again. If well covered they will keep 
for years. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Mrs. Henry Prentice. 

Make a brine strong enough to bear an egg and put in 
the cucumbers; let them stand twenty-four hours, then 
pour off'; heat the brine to a boiling point, skim and pour 
boiling hot over cucumbers ; do the same for three morn- 
ings, then drain off the brine, pour boiling water over them 
and then let stand twenty-four hours, then dry off" and pack 
in jars, putting first horse-radish, then pickles, then one gal- 
lon of vinegar, one ounce of English mustard, one ounce of 
whole cinnamon, alum the size of a hickory nut; pour 
over the pickles hot. 

Pickles. 

Mrs. A. M. Williams. 

For 200 fresh cucumbers, take two gallons of vinegar, 
six ounces of horse-radish cut in small pieces, one ounce of 
cloves, one ounce of allspice, tvvo ounces of white mustard 
seed, two ounces of alum, one pint of salt ; boil all the in- 
gredients in the vinegar and pour on the cucumbers. 

To Pickle Ripe Cucumbers. 

Mrs, S. A. North way. 

Take off the rind and take out the seeds ; cut them in 
slices; place them in weak brine twelve hours, pulverize a 
piece of alum the size of a hickory nut and put in a kettle 
of clear water; scald the slices in this solution until you 
can pierce tbem with a straw ; then to ten pounds of the 
cucumbers put three pounds of sugar and one quart of vine- 
gar scalded together with the spices, then pour it over the 
cucumbers. 

To Pickle Yellow Cucumbers. 

After having peeled the cucumbers and taken out the 
seeds, cut them into strips and put them in a weak brine 
of salt and water, with a little alum, for twelve hours ; then 
rinse tliem off" in clear cold water, and to one gallon of 
vinegar put three pounds of sugar, with mace and cinna- 
mon to your taste. When boiling hot, pour it over the cu- 
cumbers. The next day scald it again and pour over. 
They will be ready for use in a day or two. 



PICKLES. ]11 

French Pickles. 

Mrs. M. Baldwin. 

One peck of tomatoes, six large onions, put on them after 
sliced one cup of salt over night ; drain them in the morn- 
ing, boil in two quarts of writer and one quart of vinegar 
fifteen minutes; then drain through a sieve, then add four 
quarts of vinegar, two pounds of brown sugar, one-half 
pound of white mustard seed, two tablespoonfuls of grouud 
allspice, two of cloves, two of cinnamon, two of caj'enne 
pepper; mix all. boil fifteen minutes. 

Spanish Pickles. 

Miss Ada Simonds. 

Ten large green peppers, three dozen green cucumbers, 
one-half peck of green tomatoes; cut in slices, sprinkle 
with salt, and let stand over night; next day pour off" the 
brine, and add one-half ounce of ground mace, one-half ounce 
of mustard seed (whole), one-half ounce of ground cloves, 
three-fourth ounce of celery seed, one pound of grated horse- 
radish, five tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, one pound of 
brown sugar; cover with cider vinegar and let simmer 
forty minutes. 

Mixed Pickles. 

Miss E. Latham. 

One peck of sliced green tomatoes, one-fourth peck of 
small onions, four heads of cauliflower, add small cucum- 
bers and nasturtion seeds; put in layers in salt twenty- 
four hours, add one pound of white mustard, one j^ound of 
French mustard, two teaspoonfuls of white pepper, one- 
half ounce of cassia buds, one-half ounce of cloves; cover 
with vinegar; boil twenty minutes, stir while boiling. 

Pickled Tomatoes. 

Mrs. Allen Houghton. 

Slice green tomatoes and boil in weak brine until they 
are tender ; dissolve one pound of brown sugar in one quart 
of vinegar, scald and pour on the tomatoes; spice to suit 
the taste. 

Tomato Pickles. 

Mrs. W. P. Howland. 

Two gallons of tomatoes, twelve onions, two pints of vin- 
egar, one pint sugar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, two spoon- 
fuls of ground mustard, two of black pepper, one of all- 
spice, one of cloves. 
10 



112 PICKLES. 

Chopped Pickle. 

Miss 11. S. Kellogg. 

One peek of green tomatoes, one green pepper, two on- 
ions, two heads of cabbage, nine good-sized cucumbers; 
cho]) eacli separately; put in a jar in layers with salt and 
let stand over night, then wring dry in apiece of cheese 
cloth ; boil five quarts of vinegar with one pound of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of white mustard seed, one-half cup of 
black mustard seed, two tablespoonfuls of celery seed, one 
of ground cloves, one of allspice, one of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful of mace or nutmeg ; when the vinegar comes to a 
boil, stir in a cup of English ground mustard, one-half 
ounce of turmeric mixed witii cold vinegar. Pour over 
the boiling vinegar instead of scalding together. 

Chopped Pickle. 

One peck of tomatoes, one large head of cabbage, four 
large onions, two tablespoonfuls of white mustard, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of celery seed, one-half of cinnamon, one-half 
of black pepper ; take off both outside slices of tomatoes; 
slice the rest and chop fine; mix with them three table- 
spoonfuls of salt, and put in a press for twelve hours, or all 
night ; chop both cabbage and onions fine ; mix well to- 
gether the tomatoes, onions, cabbage and spices ; cover with 
good cider vinegar; keep in a cool place. This will keep 
a year without being air-tight. 

Chow-Chow— Extra. 

Mrs. N. E. French. 

Two quarts of vinegar, two-thirds of a cupful of ground 
yellow mustard, one-half cupful of white mustard peed, one 
cofi'ee cupful of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of celery 
seed, one teaspoonful of black pepper, one green pepper, 
one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice ; mix all 
together and let it come to a boil ; then put in the vegeta- 
bles which have soaked in salt and water two or three 
hours, one head of cauliflower, two quarts of green toma- 
toes, cut up one quart of small onions, one quart of celery, 
one quart of cucumbers. Let it come to a boil. 

Chow-Cliow. 

Mrs. Win. Gibson. 

One-half bushel of green tomatoes, one head of nice cab- 
bage, one dozen or fifteen peppers, one-half peck of onions, 
one gallon of vinegar, one pound of sugar, all kind of 
spices. Let it stand ten days, then pour oft' the liquor, 
and heat and skim, then pour back. 



PICKLES. 113 

Fickalillie. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

Chop fine green tomatoes, add to one gallon after chop- 
ped, one teacupful of salt, and let it stand over night ; then 
drain, and add three tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, 
tliree of pepper, two of cloves, two of cinnamon, four green 
peppers, with two or three onions and a little cabbage. 
Cover with cold vinegar. 

Pickalillie. 

One peck of green tomatoes, six onions, six green pep- 
pers, one cupful of grated horse-radish, one tablespoonful 
each of allspice, cinnamon and mustard, vinegar enough to 
cover. 

Tomato Relish. 
Mrs. Asaph Corter. 

Chop one peck of green tomatoes, sprinkle one cupful of 
salt over them, and let stand over night. In the morning 
turn off the liquor, place the same in a kettle and cover 
with vinegar. Chop six green peppers, four onions, one 
cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice, 
one of cinnamon; cook all together until soft. 

Tomato Chowder. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes, four peppers, three onions, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of salt, two of sugar, one teacupful of vinegar, 
cinnamon and cloves to taste; chop all together and boil 
two hours. The peppers should be most of them ripe. 

Pickled Onions. 

Select small silver skinned onions. After taking off 
outside skins, remove with knife one more skin, then put 
them into strong brine for three da\'^s; bring vinegar to a 
boil, with one or two blades of mace and some whole red 
peppers. When onions are well drained pour the hot vin- 
egar over them. 

Pickled Onions. 

Select fine, white onions ; let them stand in strong brine 
four days, changing twice ; heat more brine to a boil, throw 
in onions and boil three minutes; then put them in cold 
water, and leave four hours ; pack in jars with mace, white 
pepper corns and cloves ; then fill with scalding vinegar, 
to which has been added one cupful of sugar to each gal- 
lon ; cork while hot. 



114 PICKLES. 

Pickled Cauliflower. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 

Strip off the leaves of the cauliflower, quarter the stalks, 
and scald them in salt and water until soft, dry them on a 
sieve and cut in small pieces and place them in a jar, and 
cover with boiling hot vinegar, add a few cloves, allspice 
and mustard seed. Cork tight. 

Sweet Melou Rind Pickles. 

Pare and cut the rind in good shape, soak over night in 
water with a little salt, cook until soft with a small piece 
of alum. Drain them well, pour over the sweetened boil- 
ing vinegar. Spiced with cinnamon and cloves. 
Pickled Peaches. 

Mrs. S. A. Northway. 

To seven pounds fruit three and one-half pounds sugar 
(brown is best), one pint vinegar, one ounce cinnamon in 
stick, once ounce mace in sprig, one ounce whole cloves; 
rub the peaches, place in a jar; boil the sugar, vinegar and 
spices together and pour over the fruit; let it stand two 
days, then pour the vinegar off again, put it on to boil, and 
when hot put in the fruit and boil until thoroughly heat- 
ed, or cooked. 

Hot Slaw. 

One-half cup of sweet cream, one-half cuj:) 'of vinegar, 
one head of cabbage, cut fine; yolk of one egg, two even 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, very little flour, butter size of an 
egg. Salt the cabbage, and pour hot water over it; after it 
has stood a few moments, drain and strain the dressing 
over scalding hot. 

Dressing for Cold Slaw. 

To the well-beaten yolk of one egg, add a little milk or 
cream, one-half teacup of vinegar, a small piece of butter. 
Stir it over the fire until it comes to a boil. 
Tomato Catsnp. 

Mrs. H. L. Ilervey. 

To one gallon of tomatoes, after the seeds and skins are 
removed, take one pint of vinegar, one pint of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one of black pepper, one of 
cloves, one-half teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one large onion chopped very fine. When your 
tomatoes are cooked down as thick as you wish, add the 
vinegar and cook until as thick as before; next add the 
onions and spices, cook a few moments, take from the 
stove, and can at once. 



PICKLES. 115 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 

Pare and remove the stems of one peck of fresh mush- 
rooms, place in a jar with two tablespoonfuls of salt; let 
stand over night. In the morning strain through a cloth 
bag, add enough spice to suit the taste, a little cayenne 
pepper may be added, which improves it. Do not use any 
vinegar. Let it boil about fifteen minutes, then bottle and 
seal. 

Chili Sauce. 

Mrs. E. A. Sheldon. 

Twenty-four large YiY>e tomatoes, four red peppers, four 
onions, three tablespoonfuls of salt, six tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, five cups of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of cinna- 
mon. Chop tomatoes, onions and peppers fine, put the 
whole amount together, and boil one hour. 
Chili Sauce. 

Mrs. A. M. Williams. 

Thirty large ripe tomatoes, twelve large ripe onions, 
twelve green sweet peppers, ten tablespoonfuls salt, twenty 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, ten teacupfuls of vinegar. Chop 
fine and simmer to seven quarts. Bottle and seal. 
Spiced Fruit. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 

To one peck of fruit add seven pounds of sugar (granu- 
lated is the best), one and one-half pints of vinegar (dilute 
if very strong), two tablespoonfuls of ground allspice, two 
of cloves. Boil vinegar, sugar and spice first, then put in 
fruit and boil slowly two hours and a half, stirring con- 
stantly. 

Spiced Grapes. 

Mrs. E. F. Mason. 

Ten pounds of grapes, four pounds of sugar, one teacup 
of vinegar, four ounces of cinnamon, two ounces of cloves; 
scald the liquor and pour over the grapes three successive 
days. 

Spiced Grapes. 

Mrs. W. P. liowland. 

To ten pounds grapes add six pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar, two tablespoons allspice, two of cinnamon, one of 
pepper, one of cloves, one of salt. Squeeze pulp from grapes 
and boil twenty minutes, then strain through colander to 
remove the seeds; stew the skins in a little water and 
strain through a colander, then spice and boil one-half an 
hour. Weigh grajDes after seeds and skins are removed. 



116 PICKLES. 

Spiced Citron. 

Mrs. D. C. Lewis, Mt. Vernon. 

Cut into nice sized pieces and steam until you can pierce 
with a broom splint; drain in a colander four pounds of 
white sugar to one quart of vinegar. Scald and skim, then 
add cinnamon to the taste; let it boil a second time, then 
put in cans. 

Spiced Plums. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 

For a peck of plums, ten pounds of sugar, one-half pint 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of ground mace, one of cloves, 
two of cinnamon. Cook until it forms a jelly. 



FRUIT JELLIES, PRESERVES, &C. 117 



FRUIT JELLIES, PRESERVES, &c. 

How to make Fruit Jelly. 

^The process of all jelly-making is materially the same. 
Cook the fruit in a porcelain or granite kettle, and stir 
with a wooden or silver spoon. Iron and tin utensils in- 
jure both taste and color. If a brass kettle is used, be par- 
ticular to scour it thoroughly with hot salt and vinegar just 
belore using, and remove the contents directly on taking 
from the fire. When the fruit is well softened, with or with- 
out the addition of water, according to its nature, turn it 
into a large, thi-ee-cornered bag, that hns been wrung out 
of hot water. The bag may be made of either coarse linen, 
cotton, or flannel, and must be stout as well as coarse. Sus- 
pend this bag of hot fruit over an earthen bowl or jar, and 
if convenient, in a warm place ; leave it to drip for twelve 
hours. This does away with all the nuisance of squeezing, 
and the bag being suspended over night, the jelly will only 
take a little while in the morning to complete. When 
strained, measure the juice; weigh a pound of sugar to 
each pint, and be particular about it, too. Don't "guess," 
if you want to make good jelly, but, if you prefer to meas- 
ure instead of weigh, use a heaping-pint of sugar for every 
pint of juice, and, if the fruit is very sour, make the latter 
measure very scant. Boil the juice fast for twenty minutes, 
skim it well, then add the sugar, and, when it is dissolved, 
the jelly will fall from the spoon in flakes; if it does not, 
then let it boil for five minutes, but it will seldom be nec- 
essary. Boiling the juice long after the sugar is put in will 
make it dark and strong and spoil the jelly. Strain the 
jelly, while boiling hot, through a thin bag, into a pitcher; 
hold the bottom of the bag with a fork and twist the top, 
but not too tight and close, if you want your jelly to be 
bright and clear. Pour as soon as possible into the molds, 
as the jelh' will form almost immediately, and the quicker 
it can be transferred the clearer it will be. Dip each mold 
into cold water before filling, that the form may turn out 
nicely ; and if jilass is used, set it on a cloth dipped in cold 
water, and put in a silver spoon while filling. Keep the 
cloth cold by frequent dipping and you will never crack a 
single glass, even if the juice should be boiling hot. Cur- 
rants and wild cherries in equal quatities make a good and 



118 FRUIT JELLIES, PRESERVES, &C. 

wholesome jelly; red and white currants one of exquisite 
color, and black currants alone one that is rich and dark 
and exceedin<rly palatable. Raspberries to jelly well should 
be mixed with a third their quantity of currants; cherries 
and strawberries will not produce a firm jelly without the 
addition of gelatine, and ripe grapes cannot be depended 
on. Grapes should be used before they are fully ripened. 
Gooseberries are also better for jelly while partially green. 
The late wild plums make a jelly that can scarcely be sur- 
passed either in appearance or flavor. By bruising slight- 
ly the juice can be liberated from all these fruits without 
the use of water, except that which clings to them after 
rinsing. Crab apples, both the wild and Siberian, and 
quinces are particularly easy to jelly.^ Wash and cut them 
into pieces without peeling or coring; cook in water 
enough to cover, adding more if necessary to render them 
perfectly soft. A beautiful amber jelly may be made from 
tart apples, but it should be flavored with lemon juice. 
Peaches are not to be relied on. It will require the juice 
of a lemon to every pint of peach juice, and the jelly may 
or may not be firm, according to the quality and condition 
of the peaches. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Mrs. B. F. Wade. 
One quarter pound of sugar, five lemons cut in slices, one 
quart of boiling water, two oz. gelatine dissolved in one pt. 
of luke-warm water. Mix all together and strain through 
a flannel bag and pour in moulds. 

Lomoii Jelly. 

Three pounds sugar, three-quarter pounds butter, one 
and one-half dozen egiis, one-half dozen the whites left out, 
one dozen lemons. Grate the rinds of the lemons and press 
the juice on the sugar, add the butter, and bring it to a 
boiling heat, then add the egjis, stirring briskly, and tlie 
moment it begins to thicken pour it in a cool dish. It will 
keep for weeks. Use for cake or tarts. 

Apple Jolly. 

Mrs. Mary King. 

Peel and quarter the apples, put them in a preserving 
kettle, and for every quart of prepared apples allow a pint 
of water. Cook gently until they are read}' to fall apart, 
then strain through a jelly-bag or cloth, and add to the 
liquor its weight in sugar. Boil as for other jellies. 



FRUIT JELLIES, PRESERVES, &C. 119 

To Cook Cranberries. 

Put the cranberries to cook with water enough to cover 
them; let them boil slowly for one hour, then strain 
through a sieve, put back in the stewpan, and to every cup 
of juice put one cup sugar. Let it boil for one hour; before 
taking it up add one and one-half teaspoonfuls of corn 
starch to every quart of the sauce. 

Grape Jelly. 

Pick the grapes before they are too ripe, as they become 
watery then, but they must be ripe enough to have a good 
flavor, or the jelly will be very acid; pick each grape from 
the stem, and do not use green or wilted ones : put them 
over tlie fire in a porcelain lined kettle, not a brass one, and 
let them boil up, mashing them well; then strain the juice 
and measure it, putting it back on the fire, and let it boil 
thirty or i'orty minutes; to each pint of juice allow a pound 
of crushed sugar, which put in the upper oven of the range 
to warm ; when the juice has boiled the time mentioned 
add the heated sugar, and stir until all is dissolved; then 
boil ten minutes and test it; if it drops from the spoon 
thick, it is done. It is very uncertain as to time, therefore 
ditiicult to give an exact rule, but should not be boiled more 
than twenty-five minutes, or it loses its color and flavor.-- W. 

Apple Compote. 

Pare, core, and weigh apples. To one pound of apples 
allow one pound of sugar and two lemons; parboil api)les 
and cool ; pare off" nicely with flue knife the yellow rind of 
lemons, taking care not to break it; put lemon rind in a 
little saucepan by itself to boil till tender, then set it away 
to cool : to half-pint water one pound of sugar; when melt- 
ed set on fji'e and put in apples, hoiling slowly till clear 
and tender all through, but not till they break; skim the 
syrup carefully; after taking out apples add lemon peel 
and juice and boil until transparent; when cold put apples 
in a glass dish and arrange the peel nicely around them. — 
Boston Cook. 

Old-Fasliioned Apple Jelly. 

Take twenty large juicy apples, pare and chop; put into 
ajar with the rind (yellow part) of four large lemons, pared 
thin and cut in bits; cover the jar closely and set in a 
pot of boiling water; keep water boiling hard all around it 
until the apples are dissolved ; strain through a jelly-bag 
and mix with the liquid the juice of the four lemons; to 
one pint of mixed juice one pound sugar; put in kettle, 



120 FRUIT JELLIES, PRESERVES, 4C. 

and when sugar is melted set it on the fire, and boil and 
skim about twenty minutes, or until it is a thick, fine jelly. 
— Boston Cook. 

Old-Fashloned Baked Apples. 

Take juicy apples, pare and core whole ; use a large 
corer. Put side by side in a baking-pan and fill up centres 
with brown sugar ; pour into each a little lemon-juice, and 
stick in each a long piece of lemon evenly cut; put enough 
water in the bottom of the pan to prevent the apples from 
burning, and bake gently until done. — Boston Cook. 

Grape Jam. 

When the errapes are thoroughly ripe, stem them, then 
weigh and allow half a pound of sugar to each pound of 
fruit. Push the pulp from the skins and stew it in a por- 
celain kettle until it can be easily separated from the seed 
by straining through a sieve. Put the strained pulp with 
the skins and juice and a little water into the kettle and 
cook, clo-ely covered, until the skins are tender. If you 
were going to can them you would add a teacup or more of 
water for every pound of fruit, and allow only a pound of 
sugar to the same quantity. To cook the skins in the 
pyrup toughens them. The sugar must be put in last, but 
to facilitate matters in canning, the skins can be cooked in 
the water at the same time the pulp is stewing. In either 
case add the sugar when the skins are well softened, stir 
until dissolved, let all boil up well, and seal up immediate- 
ly in air-tight jars. 

To Preserve Wild Plums. 

Take wild plums when they are quite ripe and pour boil- 
ing water over them to loosen the skins. Let them stand 
one hour, then slip the skins off, and extract the stones, if 
you like, or you may leave them in. Allow three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, and two-thirds of a 
teacupful of water. Put the fruit and the water over the 
fire, and let them cook slowly twenty minutes, when add 
the sugar graduall}-, and let them boil ten minutes longer. 
A less quantity of sugar will do, but you will find tliem 
better, and they will keep longer, by putting the full al- 
lowance of sugar. If you take the stones out of the plums, 
crack some of them and take the kernels, after blanching 
them b}' pouring boiling water over them, and add them 
to the syrup. 



FRUIT JELLIES, PRESERVES, &C. 121 

Citron Preserve. 

Take out seeds, pare and cut up, and put in water for one 
night ; in the morning put in kettle and simmer, not boil, 
slowly: the slices should be thin; to one pound of citron 
one pound of white sugar, quarter of a jDOund of ginger 
root, six pounds of fruit; put the ginger, bruised, in a mus- 
lin bag; half a lemon to each pound; when the fruit is 
boiled tender, pour off that water and add sugar, lemon 
slices and ginger ; let it boil slowly till it comes to a jelly ; 
then pour over citron, which should be transparent. The 
large green melon is better than small ones. — Boston Cook, 

Green Sweetmeats. 

Mrs. Custis, Virginia. 

Take watermelon rinds and scald in alum water four 
hours ; cover closely Avith grape or cabbage leaves ; should 
they be clear and tender then, take them out and tlirow in- 
to cold water ; if not, let them boil longer; change this wa- 
ter morning and night until all taste of the alum is extract- 
ed; then make a tliin syrup of two pounds of sugar to one 
of fruit ; boil it a little and pour it hot over the rinds, and 
let them stand three days; then boil the sweetmeats until 
they are transparent and the syrup is quite thick ; in the 
meantime have some white ginger soaked until it is soft 
enough to be scraped and sliced thin; boil it first in cold 
water, then in the syrup, together with lemon peel and 
mace to your taste; tie the ginger in a muslin bag to pre- 
vent its coloring the syrup; it is well to put in the grape 
leaves in layers during the process of scalding, then a layer 
of rimes ; keep kettle closely covered; do not use the juice 
of the lemons. — Boston Cook. 

Quince Preserve. 

After paring and extracting the cores, quarter and lay in, 
scalding water closely covered for one hour or till tender; 
this will prevent them from hardening ; put parings, setds, 
and cores into a preserving kettle, cover with water in 
which you coddled the quinces and boil one hour, keeping 
closely covered ; to every pint of this liquor, one pound su- 
gar, which, having dissolved in it, put on fire ; boil it up 
and skim; when scum has ceased rising, put in quinces 
and boil till they are red, tender, and clear all through, but 
not till they break ; keep kettle closely covered if you wish 
your quinces to be bright colored ; if you wish them to be 
red, put tiny bits of cochineal in a muslin bag ; when done 
take out and spread on a large dish to cool, then put in 



122 FRUIT JELLIES, PRESERVES, AC. 

jars ; give syrup another boil-up and it will be like fine 
jelly; pour it hot over fruit. — Bodon Cook. 

Quince Mannalade. 

Six pounds ripe yellow quinces; pare, core, and cut in 
bits; to one pound cut quince one-half pound sugar; put 
parings and cores in kettle with water enouarh to cover; boil 
slowly to pieces, and strain through a cloth; put in this 
water quinces; put in bit of cochineal, and boil all over 
quick fire till a quick, smooth paste, keeping covered, ex- 
cept when skimming — always after skimming; stir up 
from the bottom; 3'ou can, when cold, put this in glass jars, 
or in deep plates covered with brandied paper ; set in luke- 
warm water when you wish to use it, and the marmalade 
will turn out easily. — Boston Cook. 

Preserred Peaches. 

Weigh the fruit after it is pared and tlie stones extract- 
ed, and allow a pound of sugar to every one of peaches; 
crack one quart of the stones, extract the kernels, break 
them to pieces, and boil in just enough water to cover them 
until soft, when set aside to steep in a covered vessel ; put 
a layer at the bottom of the kettle, then one of fruit, and 
so on till you have used up all of both ; set it Avhere it will 
warm slowly until the sugar is melted and the fruit hot 
throush ; then strain the kernel water and add it ; boil 
steadily until the peaches are tender and clear ; take them 
■out with a perforated skimmer and lay upon large flat 
dishes, crowding as little as possible. Boil the syrup al- 
most to a jelly — that is, until clear and thick — skimming 
off all the scum; fill your jars two-thirds full of the 
ppaches, pour on the boiling syrup, and when cold cover 
with brandy tissue paper, then with cloth, lastly with thick 
paper tied tightly over them. The peaches should be ready 
to take off after half an hour's boiling; the syrup boiled 
fifteen minutes longer, fast, and often stirred to throw up 
the scum. — Common-Sense in the Household. 

Quince Souffle. 

Pare, slice, and stew the fruit soft. Sweeten well, and 
Tub through a colander ; put into a glass dish ; make a cus- 
tard of one pint of milk, throe yolks, and half a cup of su- 
gar. When cold, pour, two inches deep, upon the quince. 
Whip the whites of the eggs light with sugar and lemon 
juice, and heap upon the custard. 



FRUIT JELLIES, PRESERVES, &C. 123 

Spiced Apples. 

Eight pounds apples pared, four pounds sugar, one quart 
vinegar, one ounce stick cinnam<m, one-half ounce cloves. 
Boil the sugar, vinegar, and spices together; put in the 
apples when boiling and let them remain until tender ; 
take them out and put into a jar; boil down the syrup 
until thick and pour it over. 

Grooseberry Jam. 

Stalk and crop six pounds of the small, red, rough goose- 
berry. Put them into a preserving-pan, and, as they warm, 
stir and bruise them to bring out the juice. Let them boil 
for ten minutes; then add four pounds of sugar, and place 
it on the fire again ; let it boil, and continue boiling for two 
hours longer, stirring all the time to prevent its burning. 
When it thickens, and will jelly on a plate, it is done 
enough. Put it into pots and allow it to remain a day be- 
fore it is covered. 



124 CONFECTIONERY. 



CONFECTIONERY. 

<^liocolate Caramels. No. 1. 

Mis3 A. M. Lewis. 

One cup molasses, two cups brown sugar, boil a few min- 
utes, then add one cup of milk and one-half cup of choco- 
late beaten together, one tablespoonful of vanilla and a 
small piece of butter. After putting in the milk and choc- 
olate it must be stirred fast to prevent burning. 

No 2. 

Two cups molasses, one cup white sugar, one-half cup 
milk, nearly one-half cup butter, three oz. chocolate, one 
and one-half teaspoons vanilla. 

Molasses Taffy. 

Mrs. W. P. Howland. 

Four pounds sugar, one pint water, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, Orleans molasses sufficient to color. Do not stir it. 

Cream Candy. 

Mrs. W. P. Howland. 

Four pounds sugar, one pint water, one teaspoon cream 
tartar. 

Caramels. 

One cup white sugar, one of brown sugar, one and one- 
half molasses, one-half cup grated chocolate, one cup milk, 
butter size of an egg, melt all together over slow fire, run 
out into a shallow pan, and divide with a buttered knife. 

MarMed Cream Candy. 

Four cups white sugar, one cup rich sweet cream, one 
cup water, one tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful vin- 
egar, bit of soda the size of a pea, stirred in cream, vanilla 
extract, three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, grated. Boil all 
the ingredients except half the cream, the chocolate and 
vanilla, together very fast until it is a thick, ropy syrup. 
Heat in a separate sacepan the reserved cream, into which 
you must have rubbed the grated chocolate. Let it stew 
until quite thick, and when the candy is done, add a cup- 
ful of it to this, stirring it well. Turn the uncolored syrup 
out upon broad dishes, and pour upon it, here and there, 
great vspoonfuls of the chocolate mixture. Pull as soon as 



CONFECTIONERY. 125 

you can handle it with comfort, and with the tips of your 
fingers only. If deftly manipulated, it will be streaked 
with white and brown. 

Nut Candy. 

Cook over a slow fire one pound loaf sugar, one cup water, 
clear with a little cold vinegar, skim, and when it threads 
or snaps like glass when raised with a spoon, add any kind 
of nuts, chopped coacoanut, almonds, hickory nuts or Bra- 
zil nuts cut in slices, then pour into a pan and when near- 
ly cold mark in narrow strips with a knife. 

Cocoauut Candy quickly made. 

Mrs. B. F. Bowman, Jr. 

Grate the meat of a coacoanut, and having ready two 
pounds of finely sifted white sugar, the beaten whites of 
two eggs, and the milk of the nut; simply mix all togeth- 
er and make into little cakes. In a short while the candy 
will be dry enough to use. 

Taffy. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon vine- 
gar, butter one-half size of nutmeg. Boil ten minutes. 



126 DRINKS. 



DRINKS. 

Coflfee. 

For seven persons grind one coffee-cupful of freshly 
browned coffee; mix with it tlie white of one egg : add one 
pint of cold water and set the coffee-pot upon the stove 
where it will heat slowly. Do not let it more than come 
to the boiling point, or it will be bitter. Add one quart of 
boiling water just before removing to the table. 

Coffee. 

To make good coffee have your coffee freshly browned a 
nice chestnut color, and ground not too fine. Put in a dish 
as much coffee as would be a heaping tablespoonful for each 
person, and pour into it enough cold water to moisten the 
whole, then break into it one or more eggs according to the 
quantity, one egg is sufficient for ten persons, mix thor- 
oughly and put into your coffee boiler with cold water 
enough to make the desired quantity. Place the boiler up- 
on the stove, and remove as soon as it comes to a boil. In 
making large quantities dilute with hot water. 

Substitute for Cream in Coffee. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

Beat an egg to a froth, add to it a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, and turn the coffee on it gradually from the 
boiling pot into the one for the table, in which it should 
be previousl}^ put. It is difficult to distinguish the taste 
from fresh cream. 

Chocolate. 

Six tablespoons grated chocolate to each pint of water; 
same quantity of milk, sweeten to taste. Rub chocolate 
smooth in a little cold water and stir into boiling water. 
Boil twenty minutes, add milk and boil ten minutes more, 
stirring frequently. 

Prepared Cocoa. 

Two oz. prepared cocoa, one quart boiling water, one qt. 
milk; make as you do chocolate, only boil nearly an hour 
before adding milk, tben heating almost to boiling. Sweet- 
en to taste. 



FOR THE SICK ROOM. 127 



FOR THE SICK ROOM. 

Beef Tea. 

One poundlean beef cut into small pieces; put into ajar 
without a drop of water, cover tigiitly and set in kettle of 
boiling water. Heat gradually to a boil and boil for three 
or four hours, until the meat is like white rags and juice all 
out» Season with salt, and when cold skim. 

Mutton Broth. 

Boil one pound lean mutton or lamb unsalted, cut fine in 
one quart water until it falls to pieces ; strain and add one 
tablespoon soaked rice, simmer one-half hour, then add salt,, 
pepper, four tablespoons milk, then simmer five minutes. 

Indian Meal (iruel. 

Wet one cup Indian meal and one tablespoon flour to a 
smooth paste, and stir into two quarts of boiling water;, 
boil half an hour, salt to taste, sugar and nutmeg if liked. 
Oat meal gruel the same way. 

Milk Porridge. 

Boil a paste made of one tablespoon meal, one of flour, ia 
two cups of boiling water twenty minutes, add two cups 
milk, and cook ten minutes more. 

Graham Hasty Pudding. 

One cup Graham flour wet with cold water, stirred into 
one large cup boiling water, boil ten minutes, stirring con- 
stantly ; add one large cup milk, and boil ten minutes 
longer. 

A plain dessert for grown people or children with milk, 
sugar and nutmeg, as one prefers. 

Calves-foot Jelly. 

Boil four nicely cleaned calves-feet in three quarts of wa- 
ter until reduced to one, very slowly; strain and set away 
until cold, then take off the fat from the top and remove the 
jelly into a stew-pan, avoiding the settlings, and adding 
half a pound of white powdered sugar, the juice of two 
lemons, and the w^hites of two eggs— the latter to make it 
transparent. Boil altogether a few moments and set away 
in bowls or glasses ; it is excellent in a sick room. 
11 



128 FOR THE SICK ROOM. 

Dried Flour for Teething Children. 

One cup of flour tied in a stout bag dropped into cold 
water, then set over a Are. Boil three hours steadily ; turn 
out the flour ball and dry in the hot sun all day ; or, if you 
need it at once, dry in a moderate oven without shutting 
the door. 

TO USE IT : 

Grate a tablespoonful for a cupful of boiling milk and 
water (half and half). Wet up the flour with a ver}^ little 
cold water, stir in and boil five minutes. Put in a little 
salt. 

Mountain Custard. 

Sweeten and flavor a pint of milk to taste. When luke- 
warm, add two teaspoonfuls of rennet wine. If it does not 
set in an hour, add more wine. It should be smooth and 
thick like a baked custard. 

Beef Tea. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

Take one pound of lean beef, pound well or cut in very 
thin slices, put in a glass fruit-jar and cover with water; 
put the jar in a kettle of cold water, and after the water in 
the kettle comes to a boil, let it boil for several hours, not 
less than three. If it is needed sooner, a little may be 
poured from the jar into a bright tin basin and cooked for 
a moment or two. Salt to taste ; it is then ready for use. If 
needed very strong, put more beef in the jar and no water. 
It is best made in small quantities. 
Beef Extract. 

Mrs. J. A. Garfieldi 

One pound lean beef cut fine and put in one pint of cold 
water and six drops muriatic acid ; after being thoroughly 
mixed it is allowed to stand one hour, and then strained 
and pressed until all the liquid is extracted. 

Mutton Broth. 

To one pound of lean mutton (cut off" all the fat) use one 
quart water and a little salt, with a few crusts of bread; 
boil slowly for a couple of hours, then skim off" the oily 
matter carefully before using. 

Corn Meal Gruel. 

Take one-half pint meal, pour over it one pint or more, 
of cold water, stir up, let settle a moment, pour off" the wa- 
ter, repeat this until there is nothing left but the yellow 
grains; then put the washed meal into two pints cold wa- 



FOR THE SICK ROOM, 129 

ter, and place where it will boil ; cook two hours, and when 
done, add a pinch of salt. It may be eaten with or with- 
out other seasoning. 

Jellice. 

One-half teaspoon of currant, lemon or cranberry jelly 
put into goblet, beat well with two tablespoons water, fill 
up Avith ice water, and j^ou have a refreshing drink for a 
fever patient. 

Oat Meal Gruel. 

Put two heaping tablespoons oat meal in one quart cold 
water; stir till it commences to boil, then cook one hour, 
stirring occasionally. Do not let it scorch ; season with 
salt, sugar, and spice desired. For infants and very sick 
patients it must be strained, and not salted. 
Tapioca Jelly. 

One-half pint tapioca, one quart water, juice and some of 
the grated rind of a lemon ; soak the tapioca for three or 
four hours in the water, sweeten it and boil for one hour in 
a custard kettle, or until quite clear, stirring it often. 
"When almost done, stir in the lemon, and when sufficiently 
cooked, iDOur into moulds. Serve with sweetened cream. 

Drink for the Sick. 

Two tablespoons of arrow-root in a quart pitcher with a 
little cold water, three tablespoons white sugar, the juice 
of one lemon and part of the rind ; stir all quickly while 
pouring boiling water, until the pitcher is full ; drink cold. 

Apple Water. 

Slices of apple put in warm water with a little sugar 
make a pleasant drink. 

Panada. 

Six Boston crackers, split, two tablespoons white sugar, 
a good jDinch of salt, and a little nutmeg, enough boiling 
water to cover them well. Split the crackers and pile in a 
bowl in layers, salt and sugar scattered among them ; cover 
with boiling water and set on the hearth, with a close top 
over the bowl, for at least one hour. The crackers should 
be almost as clear and soft as the jelly, but not broken. 
Eat from the bowl, with more sugar sj^rinkled in if you 
wish it. If properly made, this panada is very nice. 

Cup Pudding. 

One tablespoon of flour, one egg; mix with cold milk 
and a pinch of salt to a batter. Boil fifteen minutes in a 
buttered cup. Eat with sauce, fruit or plain sugar. 



130 FOR THE SICK ROOM. 

Cracked Wheat. 

Boil slowly for one-half hour a small teacup of cracked 
wheat with a little salt, in one quart of hot water, stirring 
often. Serve with sugar and cream or new milk. 

Arrow-root Custard. 

One tablespoon arrow-root, one pint of milk, one egg, two 
tablespoons sugar ; mix the arrow-root with a little of the 
cold milk, put the rest of the milk on the fire and boil and 
stir in the arrow-root and egg and sugar, well beaten to- 
gether ; scald and pour into cups to cool. Any flavoring 
the invalid prefers may be added. 

Cream Soup. 

One pint boiling water, one-half teacup cream, add 
broken pieces of toasted bread, a little salt. 

Sago Jelly Pudding. 

Wash thoroughly one teacup of sago, cook it in three 
pints of water fifteen or twenty minutes till perfectly clear, 
add a very little salt ; stir in half a glass of currant, grape, 
or other jelly, and two spoonfuls sugar. Mould and serve 
cold, with cream and sugar, or eat warm. 

Refreshing and Cooling Wash for the Sick Boom. 

Take of rosemary, wormwood, lavender, rue, sage and 
mint, a large handful of each, place in a stone jar, and 
turnover it one gallon of strong cider vinegar, cover closely 
and keep near the fire for four days ; then strain and add one 
ounce pounded camphor gum. Bottle and keep tightly 
corked. 

Chicken Jelly. 

One-half of a raw chicken, pounded with a mallet, bones 
and meat together, plenty of cold water to cover it well, 
about a quart. Heat slowly in a covered vessel, and let it 
simmer until the meat is in white rags and the liquid re- 
duced one-half. Strain and press, first through a colander, 
then through a coarse cloth. Salt to taste, and pepper if 
you think best; return to the fire, and simmer five min- 
utes longer ; skim when cool. Give to the patient cold — 
just from the ice — with unleavened wafers. Keep on the 
ice. You can make into sandwiches by putting the jelly 
between thin slices of bread spread lightly with butter. 

Milk Porridge. 

Two cups best oat meal, two cups water, two cups milk. 
Soak the oat meal over night in the water; strain in the 



FOR THE SICK BOOM. 131 

morning, and boil the water half an hour. Put in the 
milk with a little salt, boil up well and serve. Eat warm, 
with or without powdered sugar. 

Thickened Milk. 

With a little milk, mix smooth a tablespoonful of flour 
and a pinch of salt. Pour upon it a quart of boiling milk, 
and when it is thoroughly amalgamated put all back into 
the sauce-pan, and boil up once, being careful not to burn, 
and stirring all the time, to keep it perfectly smooth, and 
free from lumps. Serve with slices of dry toast. It is ex- 
cellent in diarrhea and becomes a specific by scorching the 
flour l)efore mixing with the milk. 

Wine Whey. 

Mrs. C. S. Sinionds. 

Take half a pint of new milk, put it on the fire, and the 
moment it boils pour in two glasses of wine and a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered sugar previously mixed. The curd will 
soon form, and after it has boiled set aside till the curd set- 
tles ; pour the whey oft" and add a pint of boiling water. 
Sweeten to the taste. Set upon ice to cool. This is a very ac- 
ceptable drink to patients suffering from fevers or debility. 

(xing'er Beer. 

Two gallons of water, one quart of molasses, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, one-half tablespoonful of cloves, one-half 
tablespoonful cream of tartar, one pint of yeast; steep hops 
and wintergreen. 

Blackberry Wine. 

Mrs. Mary King. 

Mash the berries and pour over one qt. of boiling water 
to each gallon ; let the mixture stand twenty-four hours, 
stirring occasionally; then strain and measure into a keg 
or jug, adding two pounds sugar to each gallon. Let it 
stand in a cold place about a week, then draw off. Cork 
tight and let it stand until the following October, when it 
will be ready for use. It is especially useful for Summer 
complaint. 

Milk and Rice Grruel. 

Wet two tablespoons ground rice with cold milk, stir it 
into one quart boiling milk and boil ten minutes; add a 
little salt. 

Cough Syrup. 

The following recipe is sent by a valued friend who has 
found it very efficient in her family in curing coughs. 
Tincture of blood root, two ounces ; tincture of lobelia, two 



132 FOR THE SICK ROOM. 

ounces; tincture of tolu, two ounces; essence of anise, 
three drachms; essence of wintergreen, one drachm; two 
quarts of molasses. Dose, one teaspoonful every three hours, 
or oftener as the case may require. 

Raspberry Slirul). 

Put raspherries in a porcehiin kettle, and scarcely cover 
them with vinegar, adding one pint of sugar to a pint of 
juice, scald, skim, and bottle when cool. 

Dyspepsi.! 

Is cured by muscular exercise, voluntary or involuntary, 
and in no other way can it be cured, because nothing can 
create or collect the gastric juice except exercise ; it is a 
product of the human machine. Nature only can make it. 

For Croup. 

Take a knife or grater, and grate or shave in small parti- 
cles, about a teaspoonful of alum ; mix with it about twice its 
quantity of sugar, to make it palatable, and administer it as 
quick as possible. Almost instantaneous relief will be af- 
forded. 

Hoarseness. 

Bake a lemon or sour orange for twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven, then open it at one end and dig out the in- 
side, and sweeten it with sugar and molasses and eat. This 
will cure hoarseness and remove pressure from the lungs. 
Sag"o Custard. 

Soak two tablespoons sago in a tumbler of water an hour 
or more, then boil in the same water until clear, and add a 
tumble-r of sweet milk ; when it boils add sugar to taste, 
then a beaten egg and flavoring. 

Baked Milk. 

Bake two quarts of milk for eight or ten hours in a mod- 
erate oven, in ajar covered v/ith writing paper, tied down. 
It will then be as thick cream, and may l)e used by weak 
persons. 

Egg Gruel. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with a tablespoon of sugar, beat- 
ing the white separately; add a teacup of boiling water to 
the yolk, then stir in the white, and add any seasoning ; 
good for a cold. 

To remove Grease from Broths for the Sick. 

After pouring in dish, |.iass clean white paper quickly 
over the top of broth, using several pieces, until all grease 
is removed. 



FOR THE SICK ROOM. 133 

Beef Tea ahd Rice. 

During war times I was always making this for the in- 
valided men whose appetites were returning. Take an 
ounce of Carolina rice, wash it carefully in two waters, and 
pick out the grit or bleaks ; put it in a pie plate with half 
a pint of cold beef tea, or beef broth, and let it swell over 
night; next day bake just as it is until well done; forty 
minutes in a quick oven does it; watch it, however, and 
add more broth if it gets hard; boil the third of a pint of 
milk, and when it is cool beat an egg into it; then mix 
this with your rice; season with a very little salt and but 
a few grains of pepper; let it be put back in the oven a,nd 
bake again slowly for an hour. This is highly nutritive 
and easily digested. — One who has nursed a great deal. 
Ma^ic Toothache Drops. 

Chloroform, one part ; oil of cloves, one part ; spirits of 
camphor, two parts; mix, and apply so the decayed tooth 
on a bit of soft cotton. We know of nothing to equal this 
mixture for toothache, and we have seen it used a great 
deal. 

Neutralizing mixture for Dysentery. 

Pulverized Rhubarb, one oz. ; Soda, one oz. ; essence 
peppermint, one oz. ; one-half pint brandy; one pint boil- 
ing water. Sweeten. 

Fits. 

Salt put into the mouth will instantly relieve the con- 
vulsive movements in fits, either in children or animals, 
and the frequent use of s^alt is the best remedy for Epilepsy. 

Disinfectant. 

One pound sulphate of iron (common copperas) and eight 
ounces of crude carbolic acid dissolved in one gallon of 
water. The whole will not cost more than a dime. This 
compound will keep away every flea from the barnyard, if 
sprinkled over the surface from a common watering pot, 
and render the smell inoffensive. Poured in a defective 
drain or cesspool, they will become odorless. Flies will 
keep away from its vicinity. This simple remedy, used in 
ever}' yard, will work more for the sanitary good of the city 
than all the money that it takes to run this entire force. 

Disinfectant. 

One pound green copperas, dissolved in one quart of 
water, will concentrate and destroy the foulest smells; cop- 
peras dissolved in the bed-vessels of the sick room, will 



134 FOR THE SICK ROOM. 

clean the vessel, neutralize the poisonous ojases, and pre- 
vent the spread of contagious diseases. Wherever there 
are offensive, putrid gases, dissolve copperas and sprinkle 
it about, and in a few days they will pass a\v■a3^ If a cat, 
rat or mouse dies about the house, ])lace some dissolved 
copperas in an open vessel near the place where the nui- 
sance is, and it will purify the atmosphere. 

Poison Antidotes. 

For oxalic acid, chalk, magnesia, or soap and water. For 
alkali, the best remedy is vinegar. For corrosive sublimate, 
one-half dozen raw egus, beside the emetic, the latter to be 
made of one heaping teaspoonl'ul of common salt, with one 
of ground mustard in a glass of cold water, swallowed in- 
stantly. When it has acted, swallow whites of two raw 
eggs. If ])()isoned from laudanum, a cup of strong coffee 
after emetic. If arsenic, one-half cup sweet oil or melted 
lard after the emetic. 

To Stop Flow of Blood. 

Bind the cut with cobwebs and brown sugar pressed on 
like lint. Or, if these are not procuratde, use fine dust of 
tea When sto})ped, apply laudanum. 

Ointment for Chapped Hands. 

Four ounces glycerine, one-fourth ounce white wax, one 
dram camphor gum (pulverized), one-half dram carbolic 
acid. Heat the glycerine boiling hot, add the wax, then 
thicken to a jelly with corn starch, dissolve the starch in a 
little water, add the camphor gum, then take from the stove, 
add the acid and stir until cold. 

Cure for Chilblains. 

One dram sugar of lead, two drams white vitriol, powder 
and add four ounces water. Apply every evening. 

Ear-ache Remedy. 

Take a little honey, put it in a piece of writing jiaper, 
boil it over top of lamp chimney, and put in a spoon and 
turn two or three drops into the ear. 

White Bnlsnni Salve. 

One pound of resin, three ounces beeswax, four ounces 
tallow (for green add one-fourth ounce verdigris). 

Inflammation Salve. 

Four ounces resin, four ounces castile soap, four ounces 
beeswax, two ounces spirits of camphor, one ounce oil of 
hemlock. Melt together. It is excellent. 



FOR THE SICK ROOM. 135 

Genuine Hop Bitters. 

One-half ounce buchu leaves, one-half ounce dandelion 
root, one pint whisky, one-half pint hops (or more), five 
pints water ; simmer together and add liquor. 

Wasli for tlie Hair. 

Twenty drops ammonia, one-half ounce borax, one-half 
ounce saltpetre, one-half ounce carbonate potassa, soft wa- 
ter one quart. 



136 MISCELLANEOUS. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Beef Brine. 

Mrs. E. C. Wade. 

For 100 pounds beef, six gallons water, six pounds salt, 
three pounds brown sugar, one pint molasses, three of salt- 
petre (pulverized), one of soda. Mix all together and pour 
on the beef. Salt dissolves most readily in cold water. 

If the beef is for drying, less salt is required, four and 
one-half pounds being sufficient. 

To Cure Hams. 

Miss R. P. Dean, 

For every 100 pounds of meat, take eight pounds salt, 
one ounce saltpetre, two ounces soda, one quart molasses, 
and pure rain or spring water enough to cover the meat to 
the depth of four or five inches. Boil and skim well and 
put on cold. The hams may remain in this pickle from 
five to seven weeks, according to size. This is also an ex- 
cellent pickle for beef to dry. 

For Laying Down 'Eggs. 

Mix one-half pint of unslacked lime with one pint of 
common salt; pour over it two gallons of boiling hot wa- 
ter ; put in a stone jar with a cover ; when it is cool, put 
your eggs in, and all that come to the top take out, as they 
will not keep. Be careful and do not crack them, as that 
would spoil the brine. Put them in two or three at atime^ 
slowly. 

To Preserve Eggs. 

Take a patent pailful of spring water, pour it into a stone 
jar, take one pound of lime, one pint of salt; let it stand 
for three days, stir it every day, then pour it off and put in 
your eggs. 

To Sour Vinegar Quick. 

If any one wants vinegar to sour quick and be sharp, put 
a good large handful of sugar in your jug, and let it be kept 
in a warm place; in the Summer, out doors where the sun 
strikes is a good place. If you put plenty of sugar in, you 
can once in awhile put a cup of water in also, and you will 
never know it is there. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 137 

Sliaving Soap. 

A ver}' fine shaving soap solution may be made by tak- 
ing a quarter pound of white castile soap in shaving, one 
pint of rectified spirit, one gill of water ; perfume to taste. 
Put in a bottle, cork tightly, set in warm w^ater for a short 
time, and agitate occasionally till the solution is complete. 
Let stand, pour the liquid off the dregs, and bottle for use. 

Starch Polish. 

Put two ounces of gum arable in a pitcher, pour one pint 
of boiling water over it and cover; let it stand until the 
following day, then turn it off from the dregs in the bottles 
and cork. 

Two tablespoonfuls stirred into a pint of starch made in 
the usual way (either hot or cold), will give a fine gloss to 
linen. 

Indelible Inlt. 

Six cents worth (a little stick) of nitrate of silver, dis- 
solved in one tablespoon of vinegar ; starch stiff the part of 
garment to be marked in cold starch, putting in a little soda, 
and iron smooth and dry. It will he yellow when dry. 
Use the ink with a fine pen. Let it lie one-half hour after 
marked before putting in water. Will keep bright as long 
as garment lasts. 

Cure for Burns. 

Sprinkle the burn with baking powder and cover Avith a 
wet cloth. When only superficial, the pain will cease in- 
stantly with one application; when deeper, longer time 
and more applications will be needed ; or keep the part 
covered with common molasses until one-third part linseed 
oil and two-thirds lime-water can he procured, then apply 
and wrap in soft linen. 

Cologne Wat<?r. 

One dram oil rosemary, one dram oil lemon, one-half 
dram oil bergamot, one-half dram oil lavender, twenty-five 
drops tincture musk, four drops oil cinnamon, four drops 
oil cloves, one-half pint alcohol. 

Washing Fluid. 

One pound concentrated potash, one ounce carbonate am- 
monia, one ounce salts of tartar. Dissolve in two gallons 
of water. 



138 MISCELLANEOUS. 

Cheap Blueing'. 

One-fourth ounce oxalic acid, one-half ounce Prussian 
blue, dissolved in one quart soft water. 

Bleaching Solution. 

Take sal soda, three pounds ; chloride of lime, one pound ; 
water, one gallon. Boil the sal soda in the water ten or 
fifteen minutes, or till it is thoroughly dissolved ; then re- 
move from the fire and stir in the chloride of lime. When 
cool and thoroughly settled, turn off the clear liquor into a 
jug, cork tightly, and set in cool place. Use for removing 
fruit stains, etc., from white linen and cotton goods. 

For Bleaching Cloth. 

Take one-half pound chloride of lime to fifteen yards of 
cloth. Boil your cloth in soap-suds, then suds and rinse it. 
Put your lime into a cloth and rub through hot water; 
pour your lime water into enough cold water that your 
cloth will not be crowded. Let your cloth stand in it nine 
hours, stirring occasionally; then rinse thoroughly; boil 
again in suds, suds, rinse and dry. 

To Wash Clothes without Fading. 

Wash and peel Irish potatoes and then grate them in 
cold water. Saturate the articles to be washed in this po- 
tato water, and they can then be washed with soap without 
any running of color. This will set the color in carpets if 
oil or grease is to be taken out and the colors are apt to run. 
This will set the colors in figured black muslin, colored 
merinos, stockings, ribbons, and other silk goods. Often 
the potato water cleanses sufficiently without the use of 
soap. In woolen goods it is necessary to strain the water, 
else the particles will adhere; but this is not necessary in 
goods from which they can be well shaken. 

To Wash Doubtful Calicoes. 

Put a teaspoon of sugar of lead in a pail of water and soak 
fifteen minutes before washing. 

To Set the Colors in Calicoes and Stockings. 

Put some sugar of lead in the water when you wash 
them, and a little ammonia in the water to rinse them. It 
will set the color. 



MISCELLANEOUS. , 139 

To Clean Hairbrushes. 

Put a teaspoonful of ammonia in a pint of warm water, 
and shake the brushes through it; when they look white, 
rinse in clear water, and dry in the sun or a warm place. 

Hair-brushes that have become soft with long use can be 
stiffened by cleaning the bristles thoroughly with a little 
bicarbonate of soda and water, rinsing well, and then soak- 
ing the bristles in cold alum water for a few hours, and 
then drying. It will make an old brush about as good as 
new. 

To Remove Glass Stoppers. 

Put on a drop of oil on top of bottle around stopper. 

To Cut Glass. 

Lay the glass on a piece of twine or whipcord; heat an 
iron (an old file will do) red-hot; place the iron on the 
glass over the string for a few seconds, when the glass will 
break off as smooth as if it was cut with a diamond. 

Mucilage. 

This is a mucilage which will unite wood or mend porce- 
lain or glass: To eight and one-half ounces of a strong 
solution of gum arable add thirty grains of a solution of 
sulphate of alumina dissolved in three-quarters of an ounce 
of water. 

A Useful Table for Housewives. 

Flour — One pound is one quart. Meal — One pound and 
two ounces is a quart. Butter — One pound is one quart. 
Powdered white sugar — One pound and one ounce is one 
quart. Ten eggs are a pound. A common tumbler holds 
half a pint. A teacup is a gill. 

To Remove Old Putty. 

When a light of glass has been broken, and the window 
requires a new pane of glass, it is often very hard to remove 
the old putty — that is, unless you know how to remove it. 
Take a hot iron and draw it along on the putty very slow- 
ly, and you will find tliat the putty has become soft, and 
you can remove it with a knife without any trouble. 

To prevent Potatoes from shriveling up in Spring and Summer. 

Take the potatoes early in the Spring before they begin 
to sprout, and put them into a tub or barrel, and pour boil- 
ing hot water on them, and let them stand till cold, then 
spread them out to dry, and put them away in a cool place. 
The hot water kills the eye, or germ of the potato, and pre- 



140 MISCELLANEODS, 

vents its sprouting and absorbing the substance of the 
potato. This method has been in use by a few persons for 
some years, but we believe this is the first time it has been 
published for the benefit of all. 

Airing Pillows. 

Do not put your pillows in the sunlight to air, but in a 
shady place, with a clear, dry wind blowing over them. If 
it is cloudy, and yet not damp, and the wind not strong, it 
is all the better. This, if practiced often, keeps well-cured 
feathers always sweet. A hot sun in the best of feathers 
will turn them rancid. 

To Kill 3Iotlis in Feathers. 

Bake the feathers in the oven, not too hot. 
To Cleanse Bottles. 

Dissolve one ounce of chloride of lime in one quart of 
water, and fill the bottles with the liquid; set them aside 
for several days, and rinse them well with water. The 
water of the chloride of lime can be used several times. 
For bottles which are not very dirty, use one part of muri- 
atic acid diluted with three parts of water. Sawdust put 
into bottles, and some water added, will clean well, especi- 
ally such bottles as have contained oil. 

To Clean Decanters. 

When making cake or omelette, take your discarded egg- 
shells, crush them into small bits, put them into your 
decanters three parts filled with cold water, and thorough- 
ly shake them. The glass will look like new, and all 
kinds of glass washed in the same water, will look equally 
well. 

Traveling Lunch. 

Sardines chopped fine, also a little ham, a small quantity 
of chopped pickles, mix with mustard, pepper, catsup, salt, 
and vinegar ; spread between bread nicely buttered. To 
be like jelly cake, cut in slices crossways. 

To Remove Ink Stains. 

Sponge stains thoroughl}' with skim milk, then wash 
out milk, with a clean sponge and cold water, then in warm 
water, and rub dry with a cloth. Dry ink stains can be 
removed with oxalic acid or lemon juice and salt. 

To remove ink stains from cloth, dip the stain into hot 
fat, lard or tallow, and when cold wash out in hot water, 
and it will usually remove the stain. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 141 

To Remove Ink Stains from Printed Boolis. 

Procure a pennyworth of oxalic acid, which dissolve in a 
small quantity of warm water, then slightly wet the stain 
with it, when it will disappear, leaving the leaf uninjured. 

Mosquitos. 

To get rid of these tormentors, take a few hot coals on a 
shovel, or a chafing dish, and burn upon them some brown 
sugar in your bedrooms and parlors, and you effectually 
banish or destroy every mosquito for the night. 

To drive away Ants. 

Place a saucer of ground cloves where they are trouble- 
some, and they will disappear. 

Sprigs of wintergreen or ground ivy will drive away red 
ants; branches of wormwood will serve the same purpose 
for black ants. 

To Expel Rats. 

Make a strong solution of copperas water and paint the 
walls of the whole cellar. Then pound up copperas and 
scatter it along the side of the walls and into every hole 
where it can be thrown. 

Cement for Brolien Cliina. 

A bit of isinglass dissolved in gin or boiled in spirits of 
wine, will make strong cement for broken glass, china and 
seashells. 

To Kill Worms and Slug's. 

Take an ordinary sprinkling pail with a free nozzle, put 
in a few spoonfuls of kerosene, and two or three spoonfuls 
of helebore, then fill with water and give the bushes a 
thorough sprinkling. Take care to have the mixture 
reach the under side of the leaves. Apply as soon as the 
slugs api^ear. 

Cement for Broken China. 

Make a thick solution of gum arabic in water, then stir 
in plaster of Paris until the mixture becomes a sticky paste. 
Apply with a brush to the broken edges, put together, and 
in three days the article cannot be broken in the same 
place. 

To Mend Cliina. 

Take a very thick solution of gum arabic in water, and 
stir into it plaster of Paris until the mixture becomes of a 
proper consistency. Apply it with a brush to the frac- 



142 MISCELLANEOUS. 

tured edges of the china and stick them together. In three 
days the articles cannot be broken in the same place. The 
whiteness of the cement renders it doubly valuable. 

Iron dust may be removed by oxalic acid dissolved in 
water, or by salt mixed with lemon juice and placed in the 
sun. If necessar}' apply twice. 

Iron rust spots on cloth can be removed by rubbing on 
lemon juice, and putting the cloth in the sun to dry, and 
then rinse with clear water, and repeat the process if it is 
not all out. 

To Remove Exist from a StoYepipe. 

Rub with linseed oil (a little goes a great way) ; build a 
slow fire till it is dry. Oil in the Spring to prevent it from 
rusting. 

To Clean Tinware. 

Common soda is excellent for cleaning tinware. Damp- 
en a cloth, dip it in soda and rub briskly, then wipe dry. 

Kerosene and powdered lime, whiting, or wood ashes will 
scour tins with the least labor. 

To Clean Brass. 

Immerse or wash it several times in sour milk or whey. 
This will brighten it without scouring. It may then be 
scoured with a woolen cloth dipped in ashes. 

Common whiting, wet with ammonia, rubbed on a piece 
of flannel, will clean silverware beautifully. 

To take White Stains from Dark Wood. 

Use equal parts of vinegar, sweet-oil, and spirits of- tur- 
pentine ; shake all well together in a bottle ; apply with a 
flannel cloth and rub dry with old silk or linen. — G. D. S. 

Wine Stains on Marble. 

Let the slab be placed where it will get as warm as it 
will bear, cover it with gum arable dissolved into a paste; 
two or three applications will take out oil. 

To Remove Stains, Spots, etc., from Clothing. 

It is frequently quite important to remove paint stains, 
etc., from clothing, and it is not always an easy thing to do. 
It is quite easy to remove fresh paint from clothing, pro- 
vided 3'ou remove the oil as well as the white lead, or what- 
ever is used as color or body for the paint. By using ben- 
zine, turpentine, alcohol, etc., to remove paint, you thin 
out the oil and spread it over a larger surface, and by brush- 



MISCELLANEOUS. 143 

ing and rubbing you generally remove the lead or paint 
color, but leave a good deal of the oil in the cloth, which 
does not evaporate with the benzine or turpentine. 

To remove paint from cloth, use benzine, alcohol, or rec- 
tified spirits of turpentine to thin out the oil, and try to 
confine it to as small a space on the cloth as possible. Try 
to get the oil out of the goods as well as the paint ; and 
when you have removed all the paint, try to remove all the 
oil by pressing the cloth between folds of coarse blotting pa- 
per, or by rubbing in dry fuller's earth to absorb the oil, 
and brushing it out and repeating the process. If you can 
use soap without injury to the goods it will assist greatly 
in removing the oil. If the paint has become dry, remem- 
ber that chloroform is a powerful solvent, and will often re- 
move paint stains when everything else has failed ; but 
also remember that you must remove the oil after it has 
been dissolved, or you will still have a spot. Always place 
a cloth or piece of coarse blotting paper underneath the 
cloth you are cleaning, which will absorb a great deal of 
the oil. 

Butter, lard, and grease of that kind, can be removed 
from silk and other goods by placing it between two pieces 
of blotting paper and pressing it with a warm flat-iron ; 
also by rubbing in dry fullers' earth to absorb the grease, 
and brushing it out and repeating the process. Pulverized 
French chalk is also good for the same purpose. 

Fruit stains are often very easily removed, and at other 
times they are almost indelible. Lemon juice will often 
remove the stain. Tartaric acid is also good. Sometimes 
a weak solution of chloride of lime will be sufficient to re- 
move the stain. 

Acid stains can generally be removed by the use of aqua 
ammonia. Chloroform will often restore the color where it 
has been destroyed by acids. Aqua ammonia will remove 
the stain of iodine from the skin or clothing. 

To Take Stains out of White Goods. 

One teaspoon chloride of lime, dissolved in three quarts 
of water, will take any kind of stains out of white goods. 
Put the part with the stain on it in the water ; let it re- 
main in until out. It will not injure the goods when pre- 
pared in this way. 

To Take Mildew from Linen. 

Dip the stained cloth in butter-milk and lay in the sun ; 
or, rub the spots with soap, scrape chalk over it and rub it 
12 



144 MISCELLANEOUS. 

well; lay it on the grass in the sun; as it dries, wet it a 
little ; it will come out with two applications. 

To remove stains of acids, use hartshorn and alkalis. 

Chloroform will remove grease stains from light silk or 
poplin without changing the color. 

A Ready Grease Extenuiiiator for Woolens. 

One ounce pulverized borax, one-half ounce gum cam- 
phor, one quart boiling water ; shake well and bottle. 

To Clean Very Dirty Black Dresses. 

Two parts soft water to one of alcohol ; soap a sponge well, 
-dip in mixture and rub the goods ; iron on wrong side while 
-damp, after sponging off with hot water. 

To Renovate Faded and Worn Gfarments. 

To one quart alcohol add one-fourth pound extract log- 
wood, two ounces loaf sugar, one-fourth ounce blue vitriol ; 
heat gently till all are dissolved, then bottle for use. 

Directions. — To one pint boiling water put three or four 
teaspoons of the mixture, and apply to the garment with a 
clean brush, wetting the fabric thoroughly; let dry, then 
suds out well and dry again to prevent cracking; brush 
with the nap to give polish. May be aj^plied to silks and 
woolens having colors, but most apj^licable to gentlemen's 
apparel. 

To Dress Silk. 

Take an old kid glove as near the color of the dress as 
possible; put it in a sauce-pan with a quart of water; boil 
■down to a pint and sponge the dress on the right side with 
this. It is the dressing the French give to many of their 
silks. A white glove will do for any color if you cannot 
match the shade. 

A bit of glue dissolved in skim-milk will restore old 

crape. 

To Clean Feathers. 

To clean feathers from animal oil and the disagreeable 
odor often noticed in them, make a lime water by mixing 
one pound of fresh slaked lime with three or four gallons 
of water, and let stand three or four hours, and pour off the 
clear liquor for use. Put the feathers into a tub and pour 
on sufficient clear lime water to cover them ; let them stand 
in the lime water two or three days, and then rinse the 
feathers in clear water and dry them. When thoroughly 
dried, the feathers should be whipped or beaten till they 



MISCELLANEOUS. 145 

are loose and nice. Old feathers are often cleaned in this 
way. 

Curling' Plumes. 

Put some coals of fire on a shovel, sprinkle brown sugar 
on the coals, and hold the plumes in the smoke. One ap- 
plication will be sufficient to make them as nice as new. 

Take a little salt and sprinkle it upon the hot stove, 
and hold the plume over the smoke a few minutes. It will 
be curled. 

To Clean Cofl'ee and Spice Mills. 

Grind a tablespoonfiil of rice through the mill and it will 
be thoroughly cleaned. 

Self Holder for a Spoon. 

In dropping medicine into a spoon, place the handle be- 
tween the leaves of a closed book lying on the table, and 
then both hands may be used in dropping the mixture. 

Never enter a room where a person is sick with an in- 
fectious disease, with an empty stomach. 
Different Uses for Ammonia. 

No house-keeper should be without a bottle of spirits of 
ammonia, for besides its medicinal value, it is very desir- 
able for household purposes. It is nearly as useful as soap, 
and its cheapness brings it within the reach of all. 

Put a teaspoon of ammonia into a quart of warm soap 
suds, dip in a flannel cloth and wipe off dust and fly specks, 
and see how much labor you can save. 

With a pint of suds mix a teaspoon of the spirits, dip in 
your silver spoons, forks, etc., rub them with a soft brush, 
and polish witb a chamois skin. 

For washing windows and mirrors, put a few drops of 
ammonia on a piece of paper, and it will readily take off 
every spot or finger mark on the glass. 

It is a most refreshing agent on the toilet table. A few 
drops in a basin will make a better bath than pure water, 
and, if the skin is oily, it will remove its glossiness and 
disagreeable odors, often arising from the feet in hot 
weather, nothing is better for cleansing the hair of dandruff 
and dust. 

For cleansing hair and nail brushes it is equally good : 
Put a teaspoon of ammonia into a pint of warm water and 
shake the brushes through the water, when they look 
white rinse them in cold water, and put them in the sun- 
shine or a warm place to dry, the dirtiest brushes will 
come out white and clean. 



146 MISCELLANEOUS. 

THE BIRD FANCIER. 

A Chapter on the Care and Cnltnre of Canaries. 

A tuneful, sweet- voiced Canary Bird is one of the choicest 
and most delightful pets that a cultured lady can possess. 
It is a source of much refined pleasure and amusement, and 
well repays the care necessary to make it a hardy, happy 
and melodious member of the household. 

The following simple instructions in the care of Canaries 
will be found useful to all lovers of the feathered songsters : 

1. Of Choosing the Birds. — Don't be particular as to color, 
brown or mottled birds often prove the best singers. Avoid 
birds with red eyes; they are delicate and not easilj' kept 
in song, Tameness is not a sign of excellence ; a bird 
that is moderately shy and spry will be likely to turn out 
best. Look for melody and sweetness rather than loud, 
shrill tones, if the canary is intended for a private house. 
Be sure that the little fellow's legs and feet are clean and 
perfect — and when you buy a bird take it home yourself, 
and not leave it for the dealer to send. Thus you will be 
sure to get the one you select. For singing, get a male 
bird. The sex may be determined in a brood containing 
both male and female, by comparing the birds. The male's 
plumage is brightest in color ; his head is larger and longer ; 
his body more slender; his neck longer; his legs longer 
and straighter than those of the female, and the feathers 
about his temples and eyes are brighter than elsewhere 
upon his body. 

2. Of Taming. — Carry your bird home carefully and gently. 
Have its cage ready and furnished with seed and water. 
Let it step of its own accord out of the temporarj^ cage into 
its new home. Place a light in front of the cage, and with- 
out going too near or seeming to watch the bird, chirp or 
whistle to encourage it. The chances are that he will begin 
to sing at once. If it sulks a little at the start, so much 
the better, but if the shyness continues after the first day, 
catch the bird and immerse it in the water of its bath-tub, 
then leave it to itself. In drying and smoothing its feath- 
ers it will forget its homesickness and make itself com- 
fortable. 

3. Of Cages. — The wire bell-shaped cage is best for song 
birds. Brass is better than painted wire. In addition to 
the bath-tub and seed cup, the cage should have two or 
three perches, made of cane or hard wood, made round 
and smooth. These should be placed across the cage in 
such positions that one will never be exactly over another 



MISCELLANEOUS. 147 

to catch the litter. Keep the perches clean by frequent 
washings with 3'ellow soap and water, and never return to 
the cage until thoroughly dry. At least twice a week the 
bottom of the cage must be taken off and washed, and the 
bottom covered with fiae sand or gravel. Be careful never 
to use salt water sand. Never hang the cage in a draft of 
air (as in an open window), or in the hot sun without pro- 
tecting the bird by some sort of shelter on the windy side 
and at the top. Never hang the cage out of doors in wet 
weather. In Winter never leave the cage in a room with- 
out a fire. Dont leave the care of your bird and cage to servants. 

4. Of Baths. — Let the water be fresh daily. Canaries 
will not bathe in stale or dirty water. The bath-tub should 
be of such size that it will pass easily through the cage 
door — and it should be removed as soon as the bird has 
bathed. If you have a wire cage with a bottom that hooks 
on, a good plan is to fill the bath-tub and set it on the floor 
or an old table. Then unhook the bottom of the cage, and 
place the cage with the bird in it over the bath-tub. The 
bird will soon come down from its perch and use the bath — 
and when the bottom is replaced the cage will be perfectly 
clean and dry. If you put the bath-tub in the cage, dry 
up all splashes of water after the bird has finished bathing. 

5. Of Fond and Water. — Simple diet is better for song 
birds than dainties, like cake, sugar and other "goodies." 
A mixture of rape and canary, with a little hemp seed (less 
of the latter in Summer than in Winter). If the bird is 
young the hemp seed should be cracked before using. In 
Summer the cage should be supplied with green food, such 
as cabbage, turnip tops, chick-weed, plantain stems, celery, 
water cress, etc. In Winter use a little sweet apple, and 
occasionally a trifle of boiled carrot or cauliflower, without 
salt. Birds also enjoy pieces of water cracker or pilot bread 
suspended in the cage, and particularly a cuttle fish bone, 
which is useful to them for the lime it contains. The seed 
box of the cage should be filled at night, for the bird's day 
is from sunrise to sunset and he wants to breakfast early, 
before you are up in the morning. Always see that the 
water cup is well filled. Birds frequently suffer intolerably 
from thirst after having scattered and wasted the water. 

6. Of Breeding Canaries. — Breeding cages should be of 
polished wood, with one end and one side of wire. The 
floors should be coved with oil-cloth or stiff" paper which 
can be removed, cleansed and re-sanded as required. A 
small box for nests so fastened that you can take it out at 



148 . MISCELLANEOUS. 

will should be placed near the wooden corner of the cage 
about half way up ; and material for nests, such as soft moss, 
wool, feathers, new cotton or hair, should be attached loose- 
ly to the wires Avhere the bird can get them. Canaries pair 
about the middle of March or April. Select a vigorous, 
handsome pair, and having first kept them in separate 
cages within sight of each other for a few days, put them 
in the cage. Place the cage in a light, airy room with even 
temperature, and out of the draughts of cold air. In case 
the hen bird forsakes her nest after having laid her full 
nest of eggs and begun to set on them, remove the nest 
and put in a fresh one and let her take a new start. Cana- 
ries usually lay from four to six eggs, and they set for thir- 
teen days. While the bird is setting she should have 
plenty of food ; and on the day the hatching is expected, 
put into the cage,a little grated bread soaked in water and 
pressed dr}^, and part of a finely chopped hard-boiled egg 
should also be put in the cage. These viands are for the 
young birds. The}^ should be placed in the cage at night 
or early in the morning, and great care should be taken to 
change them often enough so that they Avill not get sour. 
Healthy young birds will look red, and their crops will be 
full. If they seem pale and emaciated, it is time to sus- 
pect vermin, and you should change the nest at once, 
smoothing out the new one before puttina; the infants into 
it by rolling a hot hen"s egg about in it. When twelve 
days old the young canaries begin to get feathers of their 
own and help themselves ; and when they are a month old 
they may be taken from the parent cage to another near at 
hand and within sight Their cage should never be with- 
out green food. Fresh hard-boiled eggs and grated bread, 
dipped in water and pressed, is the best food for them. 
Give them a chance to bathe daily ; sprinkle them gently 
with water from a brush if they refuse to get into the tub ; 
and let them have as much soft (not too hot) sunshine as 
possible. When in the sun there should always be a shady 
nook in the cage — a leaf}' branch or two, making a trem- 
bling shadow, is the best. If possible, let them have plenty 
of green food, and some insects, ants' eggs, &c. When the 
young birds are two weeks old, their parents often begin to 
■get ready to prepare for the next brood; and if indications 
of such a state of things are seen, a new nest box and ma- 
terials should be put in the breeding cage. The male will 
take care of the young birds wliile the mother busies her- 
self with preparations for an increase of family. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 149 

A Suggestion. 

To grate a nutmeg always commence at the blow end, 
and it will be solid clear through ; while if you commence 
at the stem end, you will always find it hollow. 

Try It. 

Always set cake in a warm place by the stove for a few 
minutes after taking it from the oven. 

Rich cheese feels soft under the pressure of the finger. 

Keep yeast in wood or glass. 

Keep preserves and jellies in glass. 

Keep salt in a dry place. 

Keep meal and flour in a cool dry place. 

Keep vinegar in wood or glass. 

Lard for pastry should be used hard as it can be cut with 
a knife. It should be cut through the flour, not rubbed. 
Keep fresh lard in tin vessels. 

Kettles are cleansed of onion and other odors, by dissolv-' 
ing a teaspoon of soda in the water used in washing them. 

Wall paper may be cleaned by using fine dry Indian 
meal, rubbing it on with a soft dry cloth. 

Recipe or Receipt : both words are correct. 

Drink a goblet of rich milk every night before retiring. 

Papering and painting are best done in cold weather, 
especially the latter, for the wood absorbs the oil of paint 
much more in warm weather; while in cold weather 
the oil hardens on the outside, making a coat which will 
protect the wood instead of soaking into it. 

Never paper a wall over old paper and paste. Always 
scrape down thoroughly. Old paper can be got off" by damp- 
ening with saleratus and water. Then go over all the 
cracks of the wall with plaster of Paris, and finally put on 
a wash of a weak solution of carbolic acid. The best paste 
is made out of rye flour, with two ounces of glue dissolved 
in each quart of paste ; half an ounce of powdered borax 
improves the mixture. 

Old boot-top linings make excellent iron-holders. 

A hot shovel held over varnished furniture will take out 
white spots. 



1'5.0 MISCELLANEOUS. 

To Color Black. 

Mrs. Mary King. 

For one pound of cloth, take one oz. blue vitriol, dissolve 
in a kettle of soft water, then put in goods and boil them 
one hour; take out goods and add one oz. extract logwood, 
let it dissolve, then take from the fire and add one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, return it to the stove and put in goods. 
Stir and turn until they become a good black. Wash in 
suds. 

For Yellow. 

Mrs. Mary King. 

One-half pound sugar of lead, dissolve in hot water, one- 
quarter pound bichromate of potash dissolved in cold water 
in a wooden dish. Dip first in the solution of lead and 
then in the potash, until the color is dark enough. This 
will color five pounds. • 

To Color Black. 

Mrs. H. L. Hervey. 

Before coloring boil your goods well for an hour in strong 
soap suds, rinse well to take out soap and color. 

One and one-half oz. extract logwood, one oz. bichromate 
potash, one oz. glue, seven or eijrht drops oil vitriol. Make 
a dye of the logwood, put in half the glue, (dissolved in a 
pint of warm water) and the vitriol. Let it come to a boil, 
put in the goods, stir constantly for three-quarters of an 
hour (and boil all the time), take out, let it drain, make a 
<l3'e of the potash, put in the rest of the glue, let it come to 
boiling heat; put in your goods a few minutes, (but not 
boil) take out, drain, hang up to dry without rinsing. 

To Color Carpet Bags. 

Mrs. Louida Talcott. 

Blue : — For one lb. of cloth. One oz. of prussiate of potash 
in eight quarts warm water, one tablespoonful of copperas 
in eight quarts warm water, one tablespoonful oil of vitriol 
in eight quarts hot water. Dip the goods first in the cop- 
peras water, then in the potash, and last in the vitriol, 
then hang up a sliort time to air. If not dee^j enough wet 
them over again in the same way. Rinse in cold water. 

Green : — After coloring the goods blue, dip into a yellow 
dye and rinse. 

Yellow : — For one pound cloth. Two oz. sugar of lead in 
eight quarts warm water, one oz bichromate potash in 
eight quarts warm water. Dip the goods first in the pot- 
ash water, and then in the sugar of lead. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 151 

For Orjinge. 

Mrs. M. King. 

Slack stone lime with boiling water and let it settle ; drain 
it off and bring it to a scalding heat, and dip in your yel- 
low. Dip but a few pieces at a time, and then get a new 
supply of lime water. 

For Blue. 

Mrs. M. King. 

Two ounces Prussian or Chinese blue, one ounce oxalic 
acid; dissolve them together in a glass can ; pour on water 
enough to wet the goods ; this will color two pounds. They 
do not need to boil at all. 

For Gfreen. 

Mrs. M. King. 

Dip the dyed blue goods in a solution of sugar of lead 
(the same strength as for coloring yellow), then in the so- 
lution of bichromate of potash. 

For Cochineal Red. 

Mrs. M. King. 

To one pound woolen goods infuse into water one ounce 
of cream tartar ; stir it well ; when the heat has increased 
a little, add one ounce pounded cochineal ; mix well imme- 
diately ; then add two ounces muriate of tin; stir it well; 
when it boils, put in the goods, wet ; move briskly a few 
times, then more slowly. Let it boil twenty minutes, rinse 
in cold water, and diy in the shade. 

Light Silver Drah. 

Mrs. M. King. 

For five pounds of goods one small teaspoon alum, and 
extract logwood about the same amount ; boil well together, 
then dip the goods an hour. If not dark enough, add equal 
quantities of logwood and alum until suited. 

Dark SnufT-hrown for Woolen Goods. 

Mrs. M. King. 

For five pounds of goods, one pound camwood ; boil fif- 
teen minutes, and dip the goods three-quarters of an hour. 
Take out the goods and add two and one-half pounds fustic 
to the dye; boil ten minutes and dip the goods three-quar- 
ters of an hour, then add one ounce blue vitriol and four 
ounces copperas; dip again one-half hour; if not dark 
enough, add more copperas. It is dark and permanent. 



152 MISCELLANEOUS. 

The Teeth and Their Care. . 

J. H. SeCheverell. 

No portion of our physical structure is of greater impor- 
tance than the teeth, and it is also true, that, in the ma- 
jority of cases, less attention is given them than is devoted 
to the thousand and one tri vials of outside adornment. In 
their care the first thing to be considered is cleanliness. 
The mouth should be thoroughly cleansed after each meal. 
Parents, impress this fact upon the minds of your children 
early in life. In many mouths simply brushing the teeth 
with water will suffice; in others, a dentifice will be re- 
quired to keep the teeth white. This need not be expen- 
sive. The following, which can be obtained at any drug- 
gist's, at a cost of a few cents, will be found fully equal to 
the extensive advertised, high priced tooth preparations : 

"D, Creta preparata 2 oz. 

^ Arris root, pulverized 2 oz. 

M — Scent with a few drops of cinnamon, wintergreen, or 
any essential oil you prefer. Apply by moistening the finger, dipping 
in the powder and rubbing briskly across the teeth, following with 
brush and water. 

In the selection of a brush be particularly careful to get 
one sufficiently soft, that it will not induce bleeding of the 
gums; and, in its use, not only pass it across the outer sur- 
face of the teeth, but between them and inside as well. 
Many pass floss silk between the teeth to dislodge any par- 
ticles of food that may have lodged there. Many also use 
charcoal, pomice stone and other gritty substances as a 
tooth powder. Don't do it, unless you desire to destro}' your 
teeth in the most speedy manner possible. A safe rule is, 
not to use anything on the teeth unless upon the advice of 
a competent dentist. 

Parents, pay close attention to your children's teeth dur- 
ing the period of second dentition ; and it is well at this 
time to have them examimed by your dentist, at least two 
or three times each year. You will thus, in may cases, 
avoid those irregularities of the teeth so annoying, espe- 
cially to females, in after life. 

Too little attention is paid to caries in the children's 
teeth. Some stormy night the little one comes in, per- 
chance with wet feet, and one aching tooth. A night of 
agony follows; hot ashes, hops, liniment, camphor, lauda- 
num, and whatever else comes handy, is brought into requi- 
sition to ease the pain. Finally morning dawns, and the 



MISCELLANEOUS. 153 

poor little, worn-out sufferer is hurried away to the dentist, 
or more frequently, the famil}' physician, and forced to en- 
dure the torture of an extraction, it may be, to the serious 
detriment of the germ of the permanent tooth. A little 
forethought on the part of the parents would have prevent- 
ed all this. Your dentist could have applied a temporary 
filling to the tooth, which, if honestly done, would have 
preserved the tooth until such time as nature should dis- 
place it to make room for the second or permanent one. If 
you will persist in allowing their teeth to decay, for their 
sake, get a vial of the following, which, if applied to the 
tooth on a little cotton, will instantly relieve the pain : 

TX Chloroform, i oz. 

-*^ Aconite, i oz. 

M — Label poison, and keep in pecure place uni il needed. Follow 
the fore-going simple advice, that your children may, in after years, 

"Rise up and call you blessed." 

Tooth Wash. 

The safest, cheapest, and most efficient, a piece of castile 
soap with brush every morning. 



154 



INDEX. 



INDEX. 



SOUPS 7 

Bean 8 

Beef 8 

Browning for Soups 8 

Celery 9 

Chicken 9 

Fish Chowder, (1) 9 

(2) 9 

French Vegetable 9 

Harvest H 

Noodles 10 

Stock for Sup 10 

.Tomato 10 

SHELL FISH 12 

Clam Chowder 16 

" Stew.. 16 

Lobster Croquettes 12 

Cutlets 12 

" Rissoles 12 

Oysters broiled 12 

fried, (1) 12 

" (2) 13 

Pie 13 

pickled 13 

with Toast 14 

" roasted 14 

" fancy roast 14 

" stewed 14 

" Maryland stewed.... 14 

" Yacht stew 15 

" fritters 15 

" panned 15 

" scalloped 15 

" soup plain 16 

" soup with milk 16 

FISH n 

Codfish, how to cook 17 

" on toast 17 

balls 18 

Fish fritters 18 

" cakes 18 

" baked 18 

" white, baked 18 

" fresh, " 19 

" flaked 19 



FISH.— Coniinved. 

Mackerel, salt, boiled 19 

fresh 19 

Fish pie 20 

" salad 20 

Shad baked 18 

Salmon pickled 19 

POULTRY 21 

Chestnut stuffing 22 

Chicken pot-pie 21 

fried 21 

scalloped 22 

" good way to cook.. 22 
" Red Brook Mush- 
room fry 23 

" pie 23 

" " crust 23 

" with oysters stewed 23 

baked,' (1) 24 

" (2) 25 

loaf 24 

" pressed 24 

How to choose poultry 21 

Macaroni timbles 24 

Turkey, roast 23 

" scalloped 22 

MEATS 26 

Beefsteak scalloped 27 

broiled 27 

" baked 27 

" with onions 27 

" " mushrooms.. 27 

Beef roast 28 

" loaf. 28 

" rechauffe 29 

" pounded 29 

" heart 30 

" liver 30 

" tongue boiled 30 

" deviled 30 

" rissoles 29 

" dried, in cream 30 

" frizzled 30 

" with scrambled eggs... 30 

" omelet, or veal loat 34 

" minced 31 



INDEX. 



155 



MEATS. — Continued. 

Meat, frying 26 

" prepared 28 

" croquettes 29 

" pie with potato crust.. 31 
Meat, or chicken dumplings 31 

Rissoles, or meat balls 29 

Rules for boiling meats 26 

Tougue, how to boil 30 

MUTTON OR LAMB 

Lamb roast 

" chops breaded 

" cutlets a la Duchesse. 

" steaks, how to fry 

" spiced 

" chops stewed 

Mutton chops 

" Irish stew 

" ragout 

VEAL 

Sweetbreads fried 



SALADS 38 

Cabbage 39 



Chicken, 



Veal spiced 

" potted 

" cutlets, (1). 

" " (2). 

" loaf. 

" scallop 

" croquettes. 

" pie 

" minced 



(2). 
(3). 



38 
38 
38 
38 
39 



Dressing , 
Egg. 

Salmon. 38 

Salad dressing 39 



31 

31 

31 

32 

32 

32 

32 

32 

32 

33 

33 

29 

29 

33 

33 

38 

33 

34 

34 

34 

34 

34 

PORK 36 

Ham toast, (1) 36 

" (2) 36 

" baked 36 

Pork steaks 36 

" and apples fried 36 

Sausage, (1) 35 

" (2) 35 

" (3) 35 

(4) 35 

" bologna 35 

Scrapple 35 

Spare ribs broiled 36 

RELISHES FOR MEAT 37 

Celery sauce 37 

Cranberry " 27 

Egg " 37 

Mint " 37 

Oyster " 37 

Tomato " (1) 37 

" 12) 37 

" (3) 37 



GAME 40 

Duck or Teal, roasted 41 

Pigeon compote 41 

Partridges, Pheasants, or 

Quails, roast 40 

Pigeon pie 41 

Pigeon roasted, (1) 41 

(2) 41 

Quail or Woodcock, boiled.. 41 
Rabbit fried 41 

" stewed 41 

Venison steak, broiled 40 

" to cook 40 

Wild fowl roasted 40 

VEGETABLES 42 

Asparagus 45 

Beans, lima 42 

Beans, string. 44 

baked 44 

" with pork, baked 44 

Cabbage baked 44 

Cauliflower 46 

Cheese straws 44 

Corn oysters 43 

" fried 43 

" oyster cakes 43 

Eggplant baked 45 

fried 45 

Macaroni as a vegetable 47 

" with cheese 45 

" stewed 47 

" with oysters 46 

Mushrooms, Frenchjcanned..*46 
Mushrooms, how to cook.... 46 

" broiled 46 

Onion scalloped 45 

Potatoes boiled 43 

" stewed 42 

puff 43 

" Lyonnaise 42 

" Saratogo chips 43 

Parsnips fried 46 

" fritters 46 



156 



INDEX. 



VEGETABLES.— Continued. 

Salsify 44 

Spinach 4(5 

Tomatoes baked 47 

" broiled 47 

" browned 47 

" scalloped 47 

Turnips 45 

EGGS 48 

Egg baskets 48 

" sandwiches. < 49 

" baked 48 

" boiled 48 

" fried 48 

" parched 49 

" scrambled 48 

" stuffed 49 

Omelet, (1) 49 

" (2) 49 

BREAD 50 

Selecting flour 50 

Bread, white 52 

" salt rising 51 

brown, (1) 54 

" (2) 54 

" Boston brown, (1) 54 

" (2) 54 

" corn, (1) 55 

" (2) 56 

" Graham, (1) 54 

(2) 54 

(3) 54 

" Indian, (1) 55 

/' _ " (2) 55 

Biscuit raised b'.^ 

Johnny cake, (1) 55 

'' (2) 55 

Rolls, Parker house, (1) 52 

;; ^ " " (2) 53 

French 52 

Rusk 53 

" sweet 53 

Yeast 50 

" hop 50 

" dry hop, (1) 50 

" . " (2) 51 

" railroad for salt rising. 51 

BREAKFAST CAKES 56 

Breakfast cakes 56 

" corn cakes 57 

" rolls 57 

cakes, oatmeal ... 57 



BREAKFAST CAKES.- Continued. 

Gems, graham, (1) 56 

" (2) 57 

" wheat 57 

Griddle cakes , 57 

Muffins, (1) 56 

(2) 56 

" (3) 56 

wheat 56 

" meal 56 

Rice croquettes 57 

CRACKERS 58 

Crackers 58 

" cream 58 

CAKE 59 

Cake making 59 

Almond cake 65 

Angel's food, (1) 71 

" (2) 71 

Apple jelly 61 

Bride's 72 

Blackberry 65 

Buffalo cream; 67 

Bridgeport 59 

Cup 59 

Coffee, (1) 69 

(2) 69 

" (3) 70 

Cream, (1) 68 

" (2) 68 

" puffs 68 

Cocoanut, (1) 63 

(2) 63 

Chocolate, (1) 63 

(2) 63 

Cornstarch, (1) 72 

(2) 72 

Carolina, (1) 74 

" (2) 74 

Charlotte Russe 84 

Custard for cake, (1) 68 

" (2) 75 

" ruse 75 

Delicate 72 

" plum 60 

" fruit 60 

Dover 60 

Election 68 

"Old" 69 

Fig, (1) 65 

" (2) 65 

French cream 67 



INDEX. 



157 



CKKE— Continued. 

French loaf 69 

Fruit, (1) 73 

" (2) V3 

" (3) J3 

" cheap 73 

" excellent 73 

" black 73 

" dark 73 

" poor man's 73 

" white 72 

" delicate, 62 

Gold 60 

Hickory-nut, (1) 65 

(2) 65 

Ice cream 67 

Jelly, (1) 60 

" (2). 61 

Layer, (1) 60 

" (2) 63 

Lemon jelly 61 

roll 61 

Lemon 61 

Loaf, (1) 69 

" (2) 69 

Marble, (1) 66 

(2) 66 

Mottled.. 66 

Metropolitan 66 

Mountain, (1) 64 

(2) 64 

(3) 64 

One egg 59 

Ocean 60 

Old Election 69 

Orange, (1) 64 

" (2) 64 

" (3) 64 

Plaid 74 

Pork, (1) 70 

" (2) 70 

Raised 69 

Ribbon 62 

Rochester 60 

Rolled jelly 60 

Silver... 72 

Snowdrift 72 

Spice, (1) 70 

" (2) 70 

" (3) 70 

.Sponge, (1) 61 

(2) 62 

" (3) 62 

(4) 62 



CAKE. — Continued. 

Sponge, White. (1) 62 

" (2) 62 

Snowflake 63 

Vanity 75 

Watermelon 67 

White, (1) 71 

" (2) 71 

" (3) 71 

" (4) 71 

White-faced 72 

White pound 59 

ICINGS 76 

Boiled, (1) 76 

(2) 76 

" (3) 76 

" (4) 76 

For orange cake 76 

COOKIES 77 

Cookies, (1) 77 

(2) 77 

(3) 77 

(4) 77 

(5) 77 

(6) 77 

(7) 78 

(8)._ 78 

Cream cookies 78 

"Red Brook" 77 

Seed cakes 78 

Sugar drop 78 

Water 78 

Without eggs 78 

GINGER COOKIES 79 

Drop ginger cakes 79 

Ginger drops 79 

Ginger, cakes 79 

Graham cookies, (1) 79 

(2) 79 

Ginger snaps, (1) 80 

" (2) 80 

' " " (3) 80 

" (4) 80 

Lemon snaps 80 

Molasses cakes 79 

Spiced ginger snaps 80 

GINGER BREAD 81 

Ginger bread, (1) 81 

(2) 81 

(3) 81 

(4) 82 



158 



INDEX. 



GINGER BREAD.— Co7itiiu(ed. 

Card 82 

Cake 81 

Old fashioned, (1) 82 

(2) 82 

Pop overs 82 

Soft ginger bread, (1) 81 

" " " (2) 81 

(3) 81 

(4) 82 

Water 82 

DOUGHNUTS 83 

Doughnuts, (1) 83 

(2) 83 

(3) 83 

Raised doughnuts 83 

Fried cakes, (1) 83 

(2) 83 

(3) 83 

(4) 84 

'; (5) 84 

Soda fried cakes without 

eggs' 84 

Quick fried cakes 83 

CRULLERS 85 

Crullers, (1) 85 

(2) 85 

(3) 85 

fritters, (1) 85 

i(2) 85 

PIE CRUST 86 

Crust, (1) 86 

" (2) 86 

" (3) 86 

Graham crust 86 

Glazed crust 86 

Puff paste 86 

PIES 91 

Almond tarts 91 

Apple 90 

Apple or peach Meringue... 90 

Cream, (1) 88 

" (2) 88 

" (3) 88 

Cream Currant 89 

Custard 89 

Dried peach 90 

German 90 

Lemon, (1) 87 

(2) 87 



FIES.— Conihwed. 

Lemon, (3) 87 

" (4) 87 

" (5) 87 

" (6) 88 

" (7) 88 

Lemon cream 86 

Lemon custard 87 

Mince 89 

Mock mince 90 

New England mince 89 

Pumpkin, (1) 90 

(2) 90 

Rhubarb 91 

Shells for tarts 91 

Silver 91 

Summer mince 89 

PUDDINGS 97 

Apple 97 

■" dumpling 92 

" shortcake 93 

Baked blackberry 100 

Baked Indian, (1) 96 

" " (2) 96 

Batter 96 

Bird's nest 99 

Black 98 

Bread 99 

Cake ; 99 

Congress 92 

Cornstarch 98 

Cottage, (1) 92 

(2) 92 

English 94 

English plum 94 

Fig 94 

Ginger 96 

Lemon 95 

Lemon rice 93 

Old-fashioned Indian 96 

Orange 98 

Paste, (1) 97 

" (2)._. 97 

Peach topioca 96 

Rice, (1) 93 

" (2) 94 

Rich suet 98 

Roivpoly 97 

Snow 97 

Sour cream 97 

Southern rice 93 

Spanish cream 97 

Steamboat 97 



INDEX. 



159 



PUDDINGS.— Continued. 

Steamed, (1) 94 

" (2) 95 

" (3) 95 

Steamed blackberry 95 

Suet, (1) 98 

" (2) 99 

" (3) 99 

" (4) 99 

Tapioca, (1) 95 

" (2) 95 

" (3) 95 

Tapioca and apple 96 

Whortleberry 100 

PUDDING SAUCE 101 

Foam, (1) 102 

" (2) 102 

" (3) 102 

Hard sauce 101 

Sauce, (1) 101 

" (2) 101 

" (3) 101 

" (4) 101 

" (5).. 102 

Sauce for ginger pudding. ...101 



AMBROSIA, CUSTARDS, &C...103 

A delicate dessert 107 

Ambrosia, (1) 103 

(2) 103 

Angel's food 103 

Apple cream 106 

" snow 104 

Blanc Mange 104 

Boiling rice 103 

Charlotte Russe, (1) 105 

" " (2) 105 

Cronstades 104 

Custard 104 

Floating Island 103 

Friar's Omelet 107 

Fried cream 105 

Iced apple 105 

Ice cream 107 

Imitation cream.. 107 

Lemon ice 107 

Rice custard 106 

Strawberry Frapees 108 

Tapioca cream, (1) 105 

" " (2) 106 

" " (3) 106 

13 



PICKLES 109 

Brine for pickles 109 

Cauliflower 114 

ChiH Sauce, (1) 115 

" (2) 115 

Cht)pped pickles, (1) 112 

" (2) 112 

Chow-Chow, (1) 112 

" (2) 112 

Cold Slaw, dressing for 114 

Cucumbers, (1) 109 

C^) 110 

Cucumbers, to put down for 

Winter 109 

French Ill 

Green color iu pickles 109 

Hot Slaw 114 

Melon rind 114 

Mixed pickles Ill 

Mushroom 115 

Onion, (1) 113 

(2) 113 

Peaches 114 

Pickalilli, (1) 113 

(2) 113 

Pickles 110 

Ripe cucumbers, (1) 110 

" . " (2) 110 

Spanish Ill 

Sjiiced fruit 115 

" grapes, (1) 115 

(2) 115 

" citron 116 

" plums 116 

Tomatoes, (1) Ill 

(2) Ill 

Tomato catsup 114 

" chowder 113 

" relish 113 

FRUITS, JELLIES, PRE- 
SERVES, &c 117 

Apples baked, old-fashioned, 119 
Apple compote 119 

" jelly 118 

" " old-fashioned 119 

Apples spiced 123 

Citron preserves 121 

Cranberries, how to cook. ...119 

Fruit jell}', how to make 117 

Grape jam 120 

" jelly.. 119 

Gooseberry jam 123 

Greeu sweetmeats 121 



160 



INDEX, 



FRUITS, kc. — Conlinued. 

Lemon jelly, (1) 118 

" (2) 118 

Peaches to preserve 122 

Plum, wild, to i^reserve 120 

Quince Marmalade ". 122 

." Souffle 122 

" to preserve 121 

CONFECTIONERY 124 

Carmels 124 

Chocolate carmels, (1) 124 

(2) 124 

Cocoanut candj^ 125 

Cream candy 124 

Marbled cream candy 124 

Molasses taffy ". 124 

Nut candy 125 

Taffy ■ 125 

DRINKS 126 

Chocolate 1 2K 

Coffee, (1) 126 

(2).. 126 

Prepared cocoa 126 

Substitute for cream 126 

FOR THE SICK ROOM 127 

Apple water 129 

Arrow root custard 130 

Baked milk 132 

Beef tea, (1) 127 

" " (2) 128 

" " and rice 133 

Blackberry wine 131 

Calves foot jelty 127 

Chicken jelly 130 

Corn meal gruel 128 

Cough syrup 131 

Cracked wheat 130 

Cream soup 130 

Croup 132 

Cup puddinin; 129 

Cure for chilblains 134 

Disinfectant, (1) 133 

(2) 133 

Dried flour 128 

Drink for the sickroom 129 

Dysenterj^ 133 

Dyspepsia 132 

Earache 134 

Ejrsr gruel 142 

Fits 133 

Ginger beer 131 



FOR THE SICK ROOM.- C7o?i<m'd 

Graham hasty puddings 127 

Hoarseness 132 

Hop bitters : 135 

Indian meal gruel 127 

inflammation salve 134 

Jellice 129 

Milk porridge, (1) 127 

(2) 130 

Milk and rice gruel 131 

Mountain custard 128 

Mutton broth, (1) 127 

" (2) 128 

Mrs. Garfield's beef extract, 128 

Oatmeal gruel 129 

Ointment for chapped hands, 134 

Panada 129 

Poison antidotes 134 

Raspberry shrub 132 

Remed}' for croup 132 

Sago custard 132 

Sago jelly pudding 130 

Tapioca jellj' 129 

Thickened milk 131 

Toothache drops, (magic). ..133 
To remove grease from 

broths :. 132 

To stop flow of blood 134 

Wash for the hair 135 

Wash for the sickroom 130 

White balsam salve 1.34 

Wine Whey 131 

MISCELLANEOUS 136 

Ammonia, different uses of.. 145 

Acid stains, to remove 144 

Ants, to drive away 141 

Beef brine 136 

Birds — culture and care of 

canaries 146 

Bleaching solution 138 

Bleaching cloth 138 

Blueing, cheap 138 

Boths, to clean 140 

Brass, to clean 142 

Black dresses, to clean 144 

Burns, cure for , 137 

Cologne water 137 

Cement for broken china, (1) 141 
" (2)141 

Crape, to clean 141 

Coloring 150 

Certain suggestions 149 

Decanters, to clean ..140 



INDEX. 



161 



MISCELLANEOUS.— Continued. 

Eggs, preserving, (1) 136 

(2).. 1H6 

Feathers, to clean 144 

" to kill moths in ...140 

Faded garments, to renovate, 144 

Grease spots, to remove 144 

Glass, to cut 139 

Glass stoppers, to remove... 139 

Hair-brushes, to clean 139 

Hams, to cure 136 

Ink, indelible 137 

Ink-stains, to remove 140 

" " from books, 141 

Iron-rust, to remove 142 

Mucilage 139 

Mosquitoes, to drive away... 141 
Mildew, from linen to re- 
move 143 

Plumes, cu rling 145 

Pillows, airing 140 

Putty, to remove 139 

Potatoes, to prevent from 

shriveling 139 

Rats, to expel 141 



MISCELLANEOUS.— Continued. 
Removing white stains from 

dark wood 142 

Soap, shaving 137 

Starch polish 137 

Silk, dressing 144 

To sour vinegar quickly 136 

To wash clothes without fad- 
ing 138 

To wash doubtful calicoes... 138 
To set colors in calicoes and 

stockings 138 

To remove stains from cloth- 
ing 140 

To remove stains from white 

goods 143 

To mend china 141 

Tinware, to clean 142 

Table for housewives 139 

Traveling lunch 140 

The bird fancier 146 

The teeth and their care 152 

Washing fluid 137 

Worms and slugs, to kill 141 

Wine stains on marble 142 



ERRATA. 

Page 52. Parker House Rolls, for .2 teaspoonfuls, read 2 tablespoon- 
J'uls of lard. 

Page 54. Boston Brown Bread, — Mrs. H. L. Hervey — for IJ hours, 

read i hour or niitil it is a light broivii. 
Page 61. Lemon Cake — Mrs. S. A. Northway — add one ieaspoonfvl 

soda. 

Page G4. Mountain Cake — Mrs. S. A. Northway — for one-half pound 

sour milk, read 2 cvp sour cream. 
Page 65. Hickory Nut Cake — Miss Minnie Dean — for one-half, read one 

and one-half cups of sugar. 
Page 68. Cream Cake — Miss H. S. Kellogg — for cake, read cakes. 
(This receipt is quite wrong ; a correct copy is here given.) 
Cream C.\ke.s. — One cup boiling water, one heaping cup sifted flour, 
piece of butter size of an egg, scald toirether; when cool, stir in four 
well beaten eges, mix with the hand until smooth, drop on tins and bake 
in a moderate oven, and use the following 

(You will notice the corrections occur iifter words " scald together.") 
Page 79. Molasses Cakes, read Molasses Cookies.^ 

Page SI. Soft Ginger Bread — Mrs. S. A. Northway — for one cup milk, 
read one cup sour milk. 

Page 85. Crullers— Mrs._ E. F. Mason— for one tablespoonful, read three 
iablesjjoonfuls butler. 

Page 89. New England Mince Pie— Mrs. S. A. Northway — after four 
pounds of meat boiled and chopped, read niiie pounds of 
apples chopped, three pounds of suet chopped. For eight 
pounds crackers, read eight potmded crackers. 

Page 95. Tapioca Pudding — Mrs. E. P. Mason — read thj-ee teaspoonfuls 
tapioca soaked three hours. 

Page 96. Old fashioned Indian Pudding — Mrs. S. A. Northway — after 
one teaspoon cinnamon, add one teaspoonful salt. 

Page 96. Ginger Pudding — Mrs. E. A. Sheldon— add one-half cup butter. 

Page 98. Suet Pudding — Mrs. B. W. Baldwin — for raising, read raisins. 

Page 101. Pudding Sauce No. 3, for six eggs, read one egg. 

Page 103-10 k Floating Island— Mrs. B. W. Baldwin — for heat the 
whites of five eggs, read beat &c. 

Page 112. C^hopped Pickle — Miss H. S. Kellogg — for one green pepper, 
read one quart of green peppers, and for two onions, read 
two quarts of onions 

Page 114. Pickled Peaches — for once ounce mace, read one ounce, chc. 

Page 120. Grape Jam — in second line, read to each three pounds of fruit 

Page 129. First line, for cook two hours, read cook three hours. 

Page 136. Beef Brine — Mrs. E. C. "Wade— for three of saltpetre, read 
three ounces of saltpetre. 

Page 144. To Renovate Faded and Worn Garments, for to prevent crack- 
ing, read toprevent crocking. 

Page 152. For Arris root, read Orris root. 



