7/5 
Vis 

ACR.LIB. 





THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

THE GASTRONOMY COLLECTION OF 
GEORGE HOLL 





PREP. niv. 

(IMHD1H6) 



THE 






HOME COOK BOOK 



BY MRS. R. E. WAKEFIED. 



NEW YORK : 

E. G. HIDEOUT & CO., PUBLISHERS, 
No. 10 BARCLAY STBEET. 



BOOK OF 



GUMMED HOUSEHOLD LABELS. 

This book contains, gummed and printed ready for use, over 650 Labels for 
Dusehold Stores, including a general assortment of Jellies, Preserves, Groceries, 
irbs, Medicines, etc. ; in fact Labels for every article needed in the family. The 
ok also contains "10 Tags ready for use, for Baskets, Bags, etc. These Labels are 
quantities from i to 30 of a kind, according to usual household requirements. 

Price, pre-paid, by mail, - 35 cents. 



PERFECT ETIQUETTE, 

Or, HOW TO BEHAVE IN SOCIETY. 



A complete Manual for Ladies and Gentlemen, embracing Hints on Introduction, 
f ilutation, Conversation, Friendly Visits, Social Parties, on the Street, in Public 
i laces, in Traveling, Driving and Riding, Letter Writing, at the Table, Making 
ad Receiving Presents, Courtship, Wedding Etiquette, Christening, Funerals, 
tc., with Suggestions how to Dress Tastefully. The Toilette, with simple Recipes 
>r Improving the Complexion, etc. 

Price, Illuminated Paper Covers, . - . - - 30 cents. 

" " /Board " - - - 50 ** 

Sent free by Mail on receipt of Price. 



HINTS AND HELPS TO HORSEMEN. 



A Handy Manual for Horsekeepers, with Concise Instructions: Breeding, Driv- 
j'ng, Buying, Breaking, Grooming, Feeding, Training, Doctoring, Shoeing, with 
Assays on Mules and Ponies, and Racing and Betting Rules of the American 
jockey Club. Practical, Instructive, and adapted to the daily use of Breeders 
Cind Owners of Horses. 

Price, neatly bound in flexible cloth, 50 cents. 

Sent free by Mail on receipt of Price. 

E. G. RIBEOUT & CO., 

10 BARCLAY STREET, NEW YORK- 



If E;W ABXBKECAZf 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



CONTAINING 



ALL THE MOST VALUABLE HOUSEHOLD RECIPES IK THE WORLD. 



TEE ONLY COMPLETE BOOK OP ITS KIND. 



HOW TO MAKE A MEAL OUT OF NOTHING. 



A TREASURE FOR RICH AND POOR. 



NEW YORK: 
PUBLISHED BY E. G. RIDEOUT & Co., 10 BARCLAY ST. 

1881. 



Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1881, by 

E. G. RIDEOUT, 
In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington 



TX/II5 






INTRODUCTION. 



Having secured the services of the distinguished cook and 
housekeeper, Mrs. E. E. Wakefield, to compile this book, we 
present it to the American public with the belief that it will be 
found more valuable than any other work of its kind, and at the 
same time to retail at the lowest possible figures. We feel cer- 
tain that upon comparing this valuable little cook book with any 
other work of the same kind ever published, you will be imme- 
diately convinced as to its value. Send for a dozen extra copies 
at trade prices, and do your utmost to circulate it among your 
friends. By so doing, you will not only make money for yourself, 
but confer a lasting benefit upon your fellow creatures. 

PUBLISHERS NEW AMERICAN COOK BOOK. 



MAMPDIPATJ uniuTP nnny 
AMUiKllAJli nulli lUulL 



HOW TO CHOOSE MEAT. 

BEEF. Ox beef is the best ; is a fine-grained meat. The lean 
is of a bright red color, intermingled with grains of fat when 
very good. The fat should be white, not yellow, and the suet 
white and firm. Bull fat is dark colored and coarse grained, and 
should be avoided. Beef should not be lean, for if it is so, it is 
tough and bad. 

The rib or sirloin is the best for roasting. Take care to have 
your sirloin cut from the slim end. Epicures prefer the rump, 
but it is too large for small families, and we wish to treat of 
household dishes only. 

VEAL should be small and white, the flesh dry and closely 
grained. Veal makes good stock for rich soups. 

MUTTON should be dark colored, and have plenty of fat. The 
older mutton is, the better it is. The saddle is the best; the 
haunch next. The legs and loin separated are the best joints 
after the haunch. 

LAMB should be small, of a pale red color, and fat. 

PORK. The fat of pork should be firm, and the lean white 
and finely grained ; the rind thin and smooth. 

BACON. The rind should be thin, the fat firm and pinkish, 
the lean tender and fast to the bone. 

To TEST A HAM. Stick a small knife into it up to the 
knuckle. If, when drawn out, it has a nice smell, the ham is 
good ; if otherwise, reject it. 

VENISON. Test in the same manner as a ham. The fat 
should be thick and clean. If the cleft of the haunch is smooth 
and close, the animal is young. 

TO CHOOSE GAME AND POULTRY 

FOWLS. A young rooster has a smooth leg and short spur ; 
vent close and dark. Young hens have smooth legs and combs. 
A good capon has a thick belly and large rump. 



6 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

TURKEY. The male bird, when young, has a smooth black 
leg and short spur ; eyes bright and full, and feet supple. The 
hen may be judged in the same manner. 

DUCKS. In young ducks the feet and bills will be yellow and 
free from hair. When fresh, the feet are pliable ; they are stiff 
when stale. 

GEESE may be selected by the same rules. 

PIGEONS should have supple feet and firm vents. If discol- 
ored, reject them. 

PARTRIDGES. Yellow legs and dark bills are the best signs 
by which a young bird may be known ; a rigid vent when fresh. 

RABBITS. A young, fresh rabbit should have a stiff body, the 
cleft in the lip narrow, the claws smooth and sharp. 

GROUSE, WOODCOCK, SNIPE, QUAIL, &c., may be chosen by 
the above rules. Buy a white-legged fowl for boiling, and a 
dark-legged one for roasting. 

TO CHOOSE FISH. 

FRESH FISH should have bright eyes, clear, red gills, stiff 
body, and smell fresh. 

SALMON AND COD should have a small head, thick shoulders, 
and a small tail. The flesh of salmon should be bright red, 
scales bright. 

EELS should be bought alive. 

CRABS AND LOBSTERS should be heavy and very stiff. 

TO CHOOSE EGGS. 

If the eggs rattle when shaken, they are bad. The best plan 
is to put them in a basin of water, and see if they lie on their 
side ; should the egg turn upon its end, it is bad. 



KEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 



LENTILS IN THE GERMAN WAY. 

Soak the lentils the whole ones for twelve hours, then put 
them in a saucepan, and well cover with meat stock, boil for 
three hours, then add a pat of butter and a little flour and vine- 
gar according to taste. 

SHRIMP SOUP. 

Take one pint of shrimps, and pound them in a mortar with 
the juice of half a lemon and a piece of butter equal in weight 
to them. When quite a smooth paste, pass it through a sieve, 
and add pepper, salt and grated nutmeg. Take as much bread- 
crumbs as there is shrimp pulp, and soak in stock ; melt a piece 
of butter in a saucepan, amalgamate with it a heaped table- 
spoonful of flour, mix the shrimp pulp with the bread crumbs, 
and put both into the saucepan ; stir well, and add more stock 
until a puree is obtained rather thinner in consistency than the 
soup should be. Put the saucepan on the fire, stir the contents 
till they thicken and boil, draw it then on one side, carefully- 
skim off the superfluous fat, strain the soup through a hair sieve, 
make it boiling hot, and serve. 

A WINTER RELISH. 

Take a calf's or sheep's heart and liver, stuff the heart with 
forcemeat, and roast it before the fire till done ; take the liver, 
cut it in slices, and fry it ; take some gravy and a little melted 
butter, to which add a little cayenne, salt, ketchup and India 
soy to taste. Put the liver round the heart on your dish, and 
pour the gravy over them. Have ready rolled bacon and crisped 
parsley to garnish. 

ANGEL PUDDING. 

Two ounces of flour, two ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces 
of butter melted in half a pint of new milk, two eggs ; mix well. 
Bake the abow in small patty-pans until nicely Drowned, and 



8 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

send to table on a dish covered with a serviette. A little pow- 
dered sugar should be sifted over each pudding, and slices of 
lemon served with them. The eggs must be well beaten before 
they are added to the other ingredients. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

When oil is disliked in salads, the following dressing will be 
found excellent : Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs very 
fine with a spoon, incorporate with them a dessertspoonful of 
mixed mustard ; then stir in a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
half a teacupful of thick cream, a saltspoonful of salt, and 
cayenne pepper enough to take up on the point of a very small 
penknife-blade, and a few drops of anchovy or Worcestershire 
sauce, and, very carefully, sufficient vinegar to reduce the mix- 
ture to a smooth creamy consistency, and pour it upon lettuce 
carefully prepared for the table. 

CRUMPETS. 

Mix a quart of good milk with water to make a batter, add a 
little salt, an egg, and a teaspoonful of good yeast ; beat well, 
cover up, and let it stand in a warm place to rise. Clean the 
muffin plate, or, not having this, a frying pan, while warm over 
the fire, and rub it with a greased cloth, or a little butter tied up 
in a piece of muslin ; pour a cupful of the batter into the pan or 
on the plate ; as it begins to bake, raise the edge all round with 
a sharp knife. When one side is done, turn and bake the other 
side. Crumpets are generally now" poured into proper sized 
rings of tin, which makes them all of a size and thickness. A 
little rye flour is an improvement. 

FOWL SCOLLOPS. 

Strip off" the skin from a cold roast or boiled fowl, cut the 
meat into thin slices, and warm them in about half-pint or rather 
more of bechamel, or white sauce. Serve quite hot, and garnish 
the dish with rolled ham or bacon toasted. 

TO RAGOUT A DUCK WHOLE. 

After having emptied and singed a duck, season it inside with 
pepper and salt, and truss it. Roast it before a clear fire for 
twenty minutes, and let it acquire a nice brown color. Put it 
into a stew pan with sufficient well-seasoned beef gravy to cover 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 9 

it, slice and fry two onions, and add these with sage leaves and 
lemon thyme, both of which should be finely minced, to the 
stock. Simmer gently until the duck is tender ; strain, skim 
and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, boil it up, 
pour over the duck, and serve. One and a half pints of young 
peas when in season, added to the gravy, improves the ragout 
immensely. 

TO DRESS A LOBSTER. 

Take the flesh of a lobster, and chop it very fine ; add some 
gravy, chopped shallots, parsley, cayenne pepper, and salt to 
your taste ; stew it in a stew pan ; then put it into the shells and 
some crumbs of bread over it, and clarified butter ; then brown 
it with a salamander. The shells of the body cut in half, and 
the fcwo half-shells of the tail. 

SPONGE BISCUITS. 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs for half an hour, then put in 
one and a half pounds of beaten sifted sugar, and whisk it till it 
rises in bubbles ; beat the whites to a strong froth, and whisk 
them well with the sugar and yolks, work in fourteen ounces of 
flour, with the rinds of two lemons grated. Bake them in tin 
moulds buttered, in a quick oven, for an hour ; before they are 
baked, sift a little fine sugar over them. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Pare a good-sized lemon thin, put the peeling into a quarter 
of a pint of water, let it stand some hours. When about to 
make the cake, put three-quarters of a pound of sugar into a 
saucepan, pour the water and peel upon it, and let it stand by 
the fire to get hot. Break eight eggs into a deep earthen vessel 
that has been made quite hot ; whisk the eggs for a few minutes 
with a whisk that has been dipped in hot water ; make the sugar 
and water boil up, and pour it boiling hot over the eggs ; con- 
tinue to whisk them briskly for a quarter of an hour ; have one 
pound of flour well dried and quite warm from the fire ; just 
stir it lightly in. Put the cake into tins lined with white paper, 
and bake them immediately in a moderately hot oven 

SPRUCE BEER. 

Although this beverage is known under the name of beer, it is, 
in fact, a wine as much as nany others that are acknowledged 



10 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

as such. It is of two kinds, brown and white. The latter is 
by far preferable, and is made as follows : Take seven pounds 
of the cheapest loaf sugar ; dissolve it in four and a half gallons 
of hot water. When the temperature has fallen to blood heat, 
mix in about four ounces of essence of spruce, and dissolve it 
perfectly by agitation ; then add half a pint of good solid yeast 
from a brewery, and mix thoroughly. A fermentation will soon 
commence, which, if it be summer, will rapidly go through its 
stages ; but if in winter, must be maintained by keeping the 
cask in a warm apartment. When the fermentation very per- 
ceptibly subsides, the liquor is to be drawn off, the cask well 
washed, and the liquor returned. A second fermentation, incon- 
siderable in degree, will take place, and when this diminishes, 
the liquor is fit for bottling. The bottles should be wired down, 
and laid on their sides until the liquor becomes brisk, and in 
high order. This will be known by the trial of a bottle ; and it 
then becomes prudent to set the bottles on their end, lest they 
should burst. When kept too long in this posture, the beer is 
apt to become flat, in which case the bottles must be placed on 
their sides again. Brown spruce beer may be made exactly ac- 
cording to the same formula, except that in place of white sugar 
an equal weight of molasses or treacle is to be made use of. 

TO RESTORE SOUR MILK OR CREAM. 

Milk or cream, when it has turned sour, may be restored to ite 
original sweetness by means of a small quantity of carbonate of 
magnesia. When the acidity is slight, half a teaspoonful of the 
powder to a pint of milk. 

LOBSTER BALLS. 

Take the meat of a lobster with the coral and spawn, pound in 
a mortar, add bread crumbs, about a quarter the proportion of 
the lobster, and season with cayenne, white pepper, mace and 
salt. Mix sufficient melted butter with the whole to form into a 
mass, make into balls the size of small apples, egg well, dip in 
bread crumbs, and fry a pale brown. 

TO CANDY FRUIT. 

After peaches, plums, citrons or quinces have been preserved, 
take the fruit from the syrup ; drain it on a sieve ; to a pound 
of loaf sugar put half a teacup of water ; when it is dissolved, 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 11 

set it over a moderate fire ; when boiling hot, put in the fruit ; 
stir it continually until the sugar is candied about it ; then take 
it upon a sieve, and dry it in a warm oven, or before a fire ; re- 
peat this two or three times if you wish. 

PEAR MARMALADE. 

To six pounds of small pears take four pounds of sugar; put 
the pears into a saucepan with a little cold water ; cover it, and 
set it over the fire until the fruit is soft, then put them into cold 
water ; pare, quarter and core them ; put to them three teacups 
of water, set them over the fire ; roll the sugar fine, mash the 
fruit fine and smooth, put the sugar to it, stir it well together 
until it is thick like jelly ; then put it into tumblers or jars, and 
when it is quite cold, secure it in the same way as jelly. 

TO PRESERVE BUTTER. 

Melt it in an earthen vessel, surrounded with warm water. 
Skim the butter until clear, and pour the pure portion off into 
pots, which should be filled to the top and closely covered. A 
little salt may be added before pouring, and should be stirred 
in, afterwards allowing the butter to clear. Or mix two ounces 
of salt with one ounce each of saltpetre and white sugar. Add 
one ounce of this mixture, in fine powder, to each pound of but- 
ter, working it well in. The butter must not be used for a 
month, and the pots containing it must be filled to the brim. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Gather the fruit in dry weather ; allow half a pound of good 
brown sugar to every pound of fruit ; boil the whole together 
gently for an hour, or till the blackberries are soft, stirring and 
mashing them well. Preserve it like any other jam, and it will 
be found very useful in families, particularly for children. It 
may be spread on bread instead of butter ; and even when the 
blackberries are bought, it is cheaper than butter. In the coun- 
try every family should preserve at least half a peck of black- 
berries. 

A VERY GOOD PLAIN CAKE. 

Hub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of flour ; mix it 
with three teaspoonfuls of yeast, which must not be bitter; work 
it to a paste. Let it rise before the fire for an hour and a half, 



12 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

then mix in the whites and yolks of four ejjgs, beaten apart, one 
pound of sugar, three parts of a pint of milk, a glass of raisin 
wine, the grated rind of a lemon, and a small teaspoonful of 
pounded ginger. You may add currants or carraway seed, 
whichever may be preferred. 

SPINACH. 

Have a pot of boiling water, add salt, and to each gallon of 
water a small teaspoonful of carbonate of ammonia ; when boiled 
tender, and carefully dried and chopped fine, put in a saucepan, 
adding butter or sweet oil to taste, with pepper, salt, a very little 
sugar, and the juice of a lemon. May be served on toast, thin 
buttered, arid poached eggs over it that have been dropped in 
water to which a little vinegar has been added, or served plain, 
with hard-boiled eggs sliced and quartered. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One teaspoonful of made mustard, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, four tablespoon fuls of milk, two 
of vinegar, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Put the mustard 
into a salad bowl with the sugar, and add the oil drop by drop, 
carefully stirring and mixing all the ingredients well together. 
Proceed in this manner with the milk and vinegar, which must 
be added very gradually or the sauce will curdle ; then put in 
the seasoning of cayenne and salt. It ought to have a creamy 
appearance, and when mixing, the ingredients cannot be added 
too gradually, or stirred too much. 

ICE CREAM. 

About half fill the icing pot with the mixture which it is desired 
to freeze, place it in a pail or any suitable wooden vessel, with ice 
beat small, and mixed with about half its weight of common 
salt ; turn it backwards and forwards as quickly as possible, and 
as the ice cream sticks to the sides, break it down with an ice 
spoon, that the whole may be equally exposed to the cold. As 
the salt and ice in the tub melt, add more, until the process is 
finished, then put the cream into glasses, and place them in a 
mixture of salt and ice until wanted for use. Before sending 
them to the table, dip the outside of the glass into lukewarm 
water, and wipe it dry. Flavored ice creams are made by mix- 
ing "cream for icing' with half its weight of mashed or pre- 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 13 

served fruit, previously rubbed through a clean hair sieve ; or, 
when the flavor depends on the juice of fruit or on essential oil, 
by adding a sufficient quantity of such substances. Thus rasp- 
berry and strawberry ice creams are made according to the 
former method ; lemon, orange, noyeau, and almond ice creams, 
by the latter method. The " cream for icing " is thus made : 
New milk, two pints; yolks of six eggs; white sugar, four 
ounces ; mix, strain, heat gently and cool gradually. Let it be 
borne in mind that in icing there ought to be holes at the bot- 
tom of the icing pail, to allow the water to run off as the ice 
melts. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Break up a dozen ripe peaches, and boil them in a gill of 
water for ten minutes. Add a small pot of red currant jelly, 
and when it is dissolved put the peaches through a fine hair 
sieve ; add syrup to give the required sweetness, a few drops of 
home-made extract of almonds, and a little lemon juice. This, 
when cold, with an equal quantity of custard or thick cream. 

TO KEEP EGGS FRESH. 

Three pounds of quicklime, ten ounces of salt, one ounce of 
cream of tartar, and a gallon and a half of boiling water. Mix 
the ingredients, stir, and cover close. The eggs may be covered 
with the solution the following day. They will keep long, but 
the shell becomes very brittle. The best time for preserving 
eggs is from July to September. 

POTTED HERRING. 

Scrape and wash a dozen fish ; lay them in salt for three 
hours ; take an earthen jar, and cut the pieces so as to fit the 
jar ; season with a teaspoonful of salt, twenty whole peppers, ten 
cloves, two bits of mace, and half a teaspoonful of ground ginger ; 
put the fish in layers, adding the salt and spices on each layer ; 
pack down tightly, then fill the jar with three-quarters of vine- 
gar and one-quarter of water; cover the top with a stiff crust of 
Hour and water ; bake gently for five hours ; eat cold. 

HASHED CALPS HEAD. 

The head must be boiled about two hours the night before it 
is required ; or you may, if convenient, use the cold remains of 



14 * NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

one partly used at table before. Cut the meat carefully into 
small pieces, and flour each piece a little ; then put some butter 
and flour in a stewpan over the fire, stirring the butter with a 
wooden spoon till it turns quite brown. Then add about a pint 
and a half of good gravy, an onion cut very fine, a bunch of 
sweet herbs tied up in muslin, and a glass of sherry. Let this 
stew about five minutes, and then add your meat, seasoning it 
with cayenne and salt, and squeezing in the juice of half a lemon. 
Garnish with egg or forcemeat balls. 

RIZ A L'IMPERATRICE. 

Boil three tablespoonfuls of rice in a pint of milk, with .sugar 
and vanilla to taste. When done, put in a basin to get cold. 
Then make a custard with a gill of milk and the yolks of four 
eggs ; when cold mix it with the rice. Whip to a froth a gill 
of cream, with some sugar and a pinch of gelatine dissolved in a 
little water. Mix this lightly with the rice and custard, fill a 
mould with the mixture and set it on ice. When moderately 
iced, turn it outand serve. 

DELICIOUS BEVERAGES. 

Iced tea and cofiee are delicious beverages. Tea, when it is 
to be thus used, is best if steeped for a few hours in cold water, 
having it strong enough to be weakened with ice water when it 
is served. Or, if hot water is used, it should be steeped but a 
short time, and then be poured off the leaves ; otherwise it will 
have a rank flavor. Iced tea is usually preferred without cream. 
Cofiee is very nice if cream is added when it is hot, and then it 
is cooled and iced. Sugar may be added also when it is hot, if 
the taste of those who are to drink it is well understood ; but too 
much sugar will spoil the coffee for many persons. 

MILK LEMONADE. 

Dissolve three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar in one pint 
of boiling water, and mix with them one gill of lemon juice and 
one gill of sherry ; then add three gills of cold milk. Stir the 
whole well together, and strain it. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 15 

TO BOIL SPINACH. 

Boil in plenty of water, drain and press the moisture from it 
between two trenchers ; chop it small, put it into a saucepan with 
a slice of fresh butter, and stir the whole until well mixed. 
Smooth it in a dish, and send to table. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Mix two teaspoonfuls of cocoa in a gill of cold milk, stir into 
a pint of cream or custard, add vanilla flavor, and sweeten. 
Scraped and sifted chocolate, so as to bring it to a fine powder, 
can be used, but the cocoa is on all accounts best for this cream. 

HARDBAKE, OR EVERTON TOFFIE. 

Into a brass skillet put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; 
as soon as it has just melted, add a pound of brown sugar; keep 
these stirred very gently over a clear fire till a little of the mix- 
ture, dropped into cold water, breaks between the teeth without 
sticking to them. When it has boiled to this point, it must be 
poured out immediately, or it will burn. The grated rind of a 
lemon, added when the toffie is half done, improves it ; or else a 
teaspoonful of powdered ginger, moistened with a little of the 
other ingredients, so soon as the sugar is dissolved, and then 
stirred into the whole. If dropped upon a buttered dish, the 
toffie can, when cold, be raised from it easily. Almonds can be 
mixed with it, if liked, during the process of stirring. 

TO PURIFY WATER. 

Pounded alum possesses^the property of purifying water. A 
large teaspoonful of pulverized alum sprinkled into a hogshead 
of water, (the water stirred round at the time,) will, after the 
lapse of a few hours, by precipitating to the bottom the impure 
particles, so purify it, that it will be found to possess nearly all 
the freshness and clearness of pure spring water. A pailful, 
containing four gallons, may be purified by a single teaspoonful. 

HARE SOUP. 

Skin and paunch a fresh-killed hare, then cut it in pieces. 
Put into a stewpan one pound gravy beef, a slice of ham, one 
carrot, a faggot of savory herbs, two onions, a quarter of an 
junce of whole pepper, a little browned flour, the crumbs of two 



16 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

French rol's, a quarter of a pint of port wine, a little salt and 
cayenne ; the hare cut into pieces. Add three quarts of water, 
and simmer gently for eight hours. It must be strained through 
a sieve, and the best parts of the hare should be put into the 
soup when served. These pieces must be taken out after about 
three hours' simmering, and put in to heat again after the soup 
is strained. 

BRILLA SOUP. 

Take four pounds shin of beef, and cut all the meat from the 
bone in nice square pieces, and boil the bone for four hours. 
Strain the liquor, let it cool and take off the fat; then put the 
pieces of meat in the cold liquor, cut small three carrots, two 
turnips and a head of celery ; chop two onions, and add them 
with a large sprig of thyme arid seasoning ; simmer till the meat 
is tender, and then color with browning. 

LARK PIE. 

Make a stuffing of bread-crumbs, parsley, lemon-peel, and the 
yolk of an egg ; roll the larks in flour and stuff them. Line the 
bottom of a pie-dish with a few slices of beef and bacon ; over 
the*e place the larks, and season with salt, pepper, minced 
parsley and chopped chalots. Pour in the stock or water, cover 
with a crust, and bake for an hour ; serve quickly, as it must be 
hot. 

TO KEEP PEARS FOR WINTER USE. 

Place the pears, stalks upwards, on a deal shelf, in a dry, but 
not warm place ; do not let them touch one another, and give 
them plenty of air. In store-houses on purpose for keeping 
fruit, the shelves are usually composed of a series of battens, 
so that the fruit rests on the edges of them, where they do not 
join, and so is surrounded by air, and scarcely touches the wood 
on which it stands. Where space is an object, apples and pears 
are frequently kept on layers of straw. 

SWEET OMELET. 

Six eggs, a tablespoonful of flour, a little sugar, nutmeg, pre- 
serve. Beat the eggs very light, add the flour, sugar, and a 
little nutmeg ; put this into an omelet-pan, stir till it sets ; loosen 
the edge with a knife, spread over it with a spoon any kind of 
preserve.; roll it up quickly and slip on to the serving-dish ; 
sift on a little fine sugar. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 17 

TO MASH TURNIPS. 

After having been boiled very tender and the water pressed 
thoroughly from them, put them into a saucepan, and stir con- 
stantly for some minutes over a gentle fire ; add a little cream, 
salt, fresh butter and pepper ; continue to simmer and stir them 
for five minutes longer, and then serve them. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Wipe very clean, by rolling it in a soft cloth, two tablespoon- 
fuls of pearl barley ; put it into a quart jug, with a lump or two 
of sugar and a grain or two of salt ; fill up the jug with boiling 
water, and keep the mixture gently stirred for some minutes; 
then cover it down and let it stand until perfectly cold. In 
twelve hours, or less, it would be fit for use. After the barley 
water has been poured off once, the jug may be filled with boil- 
ing water a second time, and even a third time with advantage. 
If not unpalatable to the invalid, a strip of lemon peel, cut thin, 
may be added. A glass of calf's-feel jelly is a great improve- 
ment. 

SCOTCH MARMALADE. 

Take some bitter oranges, and double their weight of sugar ; 
cut the rind of the fruit into quarters and peel it off, and if the 
marmalade be not wanted very thick, take off some of the spongy 
white skin inside the rind. Cut the chips as thin as possible, 
and about half an inch long, and divide the pulp into small bits, 
removing carefully the seeds, which may be steeped in part of 
the water that is to make the marmalade, and which must be in 
the proportion of one quart to one pound of fruit. Put the chips 
and pulp into a deep earthen dish, and pour the water boiling 
over them ; let them remain for twelve or fourteen hours, and 
then turn the whole into the preserving pan, and boil it until the 
chips are perfectly tender. When they are so, add by degrees 
the sugar (which should be previously pounded), and boil the 
marmalade until it jellies. The water in which the seeds have 
been steeped, and which must be taken from the quantity appor- 
tioned to the whole of the preserve, should be poured into a 
hair sieve, and the seeds well worked into it with the back of a 
spoon ; a strong, clear jelly will be obtained by these means, 
which must be washed off them by pouring their own liquor 
through the sieve in small portions over them. This must be 
added to the fruit when it is first set on the fire. 



18 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

SPANISH FRITTERS. 

Spanish fritters are a simple and generally popular sweet with 
young people, and most inexpensive. Take a two-penny roll and 
cut it into six rounds. Soak in as much milk as they will ab- 
sorb about half a pint ; brush each round over with whipped 
egg one is sufficient and fry them a bright brown in just as 
much butter as will cook them without burning. Spread jam 
of any kind you happen to have, sandwich fashion; between 
each two rounds sift ground white sugar very lightly over the 
top. Arrange in any fanciful shape, and serve on a small napkin. 

POT CHEESE. 

One pound of cheese must be well beaten in a mortar, and to 
it must be added two ounces of liquid butter, one glass of sherry 
and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper, mace and salt. All 
should be well beaten together and be put into a pretty shaped 
glass potting-jar, with a layer of butter at the top. It makes a 
delicious relish for bread or toast. 

BOILED EELS. 

Skin, clean and properly wash a large eel and cut off the 
head, lay it round and round on a fish-plate, with a little salt, 
and boil in a very little water. Serve it with parsley and butter. 

CRIMPED COD. 

Lay a cod in spring water, then cut it up and put into a kettle 
of water, add two handfuls of salt, and let it boil. Cut the cod 
into slices two inches thick, take them out with great care not to 
break them. When they are quite dry, flour them and broil 
with the gridiron far above the fire. Serve with shrimp or 
oyster sauce. 

PHEASANT CUTLETS. 

Prepare three young pheasants in the usual way ; cut them 
into joints and bone them ; put the bones into a stew-pan with a 
little stock herbs, vegetables and seasoning, to make a gravy. 
Flatten and trim the cutlets, then broil them over a good fire, 
pile on a dish, and pour under them the gravy ; one bone should 
be placed on the top of each cutlet. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 19 

HASHED GAME. 

Cut the remains of cold game into joints, reserve the pieces, 
and the inferior ones and trimmings put into a stew-pan with an 
onion, pepper, a strip of lemon peel, salt and water or weak 
stock ; stew these for about an hour and strain the gravy ; thicken 
it with butter and flour, add one glass of port wine, one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, one tableepoonful of ketchup ; lay in 
the pieces of game, and let them gradually warm through by the 
side of the fire they must not boil. Serve and garnish with 
sippets of toasted bread. 

CROCCANTE. 

Take half a pound of blanched and finely-chopped sweet 
almonds, half a pound of loaf sugar, one tablespoonful of 
essence of lemon, a piece of butter the size of a walnut; boil in 
a saucepan until it sets about fifteen or twenty minutesturn 
into a flat shape to set. To be eaten cold. 

FRIED PLUM PUDDING. 

Cut some rather thick slices from a plum pudding, fry them 
in butter just long enough to warm them, and serve with the 
following sauce over: Beat the yolks of two eggs, add two 
tablelpoonfuls of sifted sugar, two of sherry, and two of brandy ; 
mix all well together, put them into a saucepan, and stir over 
the fire till the mixture thickens. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Make a custard, without any flavor, of a pint of cream and 
four yolks of eggs. Put into this a quarter of a pound of freshly- 
roasted Mocha coffee berries ; they should, if possible, be used 
hot. Cover up the stew pan closely with its lid, putting a nap- 
kin over to keep in the steam. Let the custard stand for an 
hour, strain and sweeten, and when cold put it into the freezing 
pot. Cream thus prepared will not take the color of the coffee, 
and when carefully made is very delicate and delicious. Coffee 
ice cream is also made with a strong infusion of coffee. To make 
the infusion, put two ounces of ground coffee into a French 
cafetiere, and pour over it a gill of fast boiling water. When 
the infusion has all run through boil it up, and pour over it two 
more ounces of coffee. Put the infusion thus obtained to a pint 
f sweetened cream or custard and freeze. 



20 NEW AMERICA!s T HOME COOK BOOK. 

OLIVES OF CALF'S HEAD. 

Parboil the half of a calf's head with the tongue and brains, 
and cut even, thin slices from the thickest part of the head, and 
lengthwise slices from the tongue. Make a stuffing of minced 
ham, savory herbs, and pepper and salt. Brush the slices 
with the beaten yolk of an egg, and spread your stuffing equally 
over them. Kofi them firmly into shape, and tie them securely 
with twine. Lay the olives as closely together as possible in a 
stew-pan which will just hold them, and stew them very slowly 
for an hour and a half, with sufficient good stock to nearly cover 
them, and slices of fat bacon over them. When done, arrange 
them neatly on a dish with either brown mushroom sauce or the 
following : Take some strong beef stock, and thicken it with a 
little butter and flour kneaded together, and two tablespoonfuls 
of bread crumbs which have been soaked with a little cold new 
milk. Scald a dozen sage leaves and an equal bulk of parsley, 
chop these finely, and add them to the sauce, and lastly the 
brains, cut in small pieces. Serve as hot as possible. 

ORANGE TARTS. 

Grate a little of the outside of an orange, squeeze the juice 
into a dish, put the peel into water, and change it often for four 
days, then put it into a sauce-pan of boiling water on the fire ; 
change the water twice to take out the bitterness, and when ten- 
der wipe and beat them fine in a mortar. Boil their weight in 
double refined sugar into a syrup and skim it ; then put in th 
pulp and boil all together till clear. When cold put it into the 
tarts, squeeze in the juice, and bake them in a quick oven. Coo- 
serve of orange makes good tarts. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Fill the inside with stuffing of pork sausage meat, and tie th* 
skin of the neck over the baek with stout string. Put a pieo* 
of buttered paper over the breast. Place the bird on the spiu 
and set it at some distance from the fire. Baste it frequently 
with butter melted in the dripping pan, and flour it occasionally* 
When nearly done take off the paper and dredge it with flour. 
Serve it with brown gravy poured over it, and garnish witfc 
forcemeat balls. Bread sauce. 

POTTED FOWL. 

Take the meat from the bone? of . cold /oast fowl, weigh it. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 21 

and to every pound add one-quarter of a pound of fresh butter, 
one teaspoonful of pounded mace, half a small nutmeg, salt and 
cayenne to taste ; cut the meat into small pieces and pound it 
well with fresh butter ; sprinkle in the spices gradually, and 
keep pounding until reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Put 
it into potting-pots for use, and cover with clarified butter about 
half an inch in thickness, and, if to be kept for some time, tie 
over a bladder ; two or three slices of ham minced and pounded 
with the above will be found an improvement. It should be 
kept in a dry place. This makes a very nice breakfast or lun- 
cheon dish. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Chop one-half pound of figs very finely, mix them with one- 
quarter pound coarse sugar, a tablespoonful of treacle for a table- 
spoonful of milk, one-half pound flour, one-quarter pound suet, 
an egg, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put the pudding into a 
buttered mould, and boil for four or five hours. 

"GOOD LUCK" PUDDING. 

Pat into a basin one-quarter pound flour, one-quarter pound 
chopped suet, one-quarter pound currants, one-quarter pound 
raisins, one tablespoonful of moist sugar, half teaspoonful of 
ground ginger, half saltspoonful of salt ; mix well with a clean 
knife ; dip the pudding-cloth into boiling water, wring it out, 
and put in the mixture. Have ready a sauce pan of boiling 
water, plunge in the pudding, and boil for three hours. 

THE EPICURES PUDDING. 

Make some rich but very light puff paste and line a pie-dish 
with it. Take one ounce candied lemon peel, the same of or- 
ange and citron, and slice it all up in fine, small shavings, lay- 
ing them at the bottom of the dish, and strewing lightly over 
them one-half ounce sweet almonds, finely chopped with three 
or four bitter ones, all previously blanched. Beat the yolks of 
eight and the whites of two eggs, and mix with one-half pound 
powdered loaf sugar and a tablespoonful of French brandy. 
Pour this over the sliced peel, and bake it in a moderately- 
heated oven for one. hour. 



22 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

GENEVA WAFERS. 

Well whisk two eggs ; put them into a basin and stir to them 
three ounces butter, which must be beaten to a cream ; add three 
ounces flour and sifted sugar gradually, and then mix all well 
together. Butter a baking sheet, and drop on it a teaspoonful 
of the mixture at a time, leaving a space between each. Bake 
in a cool oven ; watch the pieces of paste, and when half done, 
roll them up like wafers, and put in a small wedge of bread or 
piece of wood to keep them in shape ; place them in the oven 
again until crisp. Before serving, remove the bread ; put a 
spoonful of preserve in the widest end and fill up with whipped 
cream. 

CHICKEN JELLY. 

Take the leg of a fowl, and, after skinning and scalding it, re- 
move all fat and wash it clean in cold water ; then put it into a 
saucepan, with one breakfast-cupful of water, and salt to taste ; 
boil slowly to pieces, strain into a cup, or let it stand till jellied. 

POTATOES A LA LYONNAISE. 

SLce an onion finely, and fry it in butter till it begins to take 
color ; add four or five cold boiled potatoes cut in slices three- 
eighths of an inch thick, salt and pepper to taste, and keep 
shaking the saucepan till they are quite hot and also begin to 
brown. Beef dripping, if properly clarified, may be used in- 
stead of butter. 

BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING. 

Butter your pie-dish well, and strew the bottom with currants 
and candied peel ; then place alternate layers of bread and but- 
ter in rather thin slices, and the peel and currants, until the dish 
is nearly full, observing to have currants at the top ; then pour 
over, slowly and equally, a custard of sweetened milk and two 
or three eggs, flavored to taste, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about twenty minutes. 

DUTCH ROLLS. 

Sift three quarts of flour, break three eggs into a pint of cold 
milk, in which put a teaspoonful of yeast, and stir up ; cut up 
two onnces butter and work it in your flour ; mil the milk, 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 23 

and yeast with the flour, knead thoroughly. Make into rolls, 
butter the pan, and stand by the stove to rise. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

WHITE WINE WHEY. 

This is a drink that is used to cause perspiration, in cases of 
colds or other ailments, where there is no inflammatory tendency 
in the patient. Take half a pint of milk, and put it on the fire 
in a sauce-pan, and immediately that it boils put into it two 
glasses of white wine, with a little sugar dissolved in it. A 
light floating curd will be instantly seen. Boil for a few min- 
utes ; pour it through a hair sieve, so that the whey may run 
from the curd. Serve the whey hot. Throw away the curd, for 
it is exceedingly indigestible, and should not be eaten. 

POTTED CHICKEN. 

Boil the chicken in as little water as possible, till very tender 
and well done ; season, while boiling, to suit the taste ; then, 
while hot, separate the white meat from the dark, and chop both 
very fine ; place the white part in a dish, in any design wanted, 
as a cross ; fill up with the dark meat ; pour over it enough of 
the liquid left in the kettle to thoroughly moisten it; then 
place a small board over it, and press with heavy weights ; after 
a few hours, turn it out on a platter, and you will have a dish 
for the table that will be not only delicious, but an ornament. 

HAM WITH CURRANT JELLY. 

Put half a glass of currant jelly, a small bit of butter, and a 
little pepper into your sauce-pan ; slice boiled ham very thin, 
and when the jelly is hot put in the ham and leave it only long 
enough to be heated through. Serve on a hot dish. 

IRISH STEW. 

Take about two pounds of chops from a loin of mutton, place 
them in a stew-pan with alternate layers of sliced potatoes and 
layers of chops, and three small onions, and pour in a pint and 
a half of cold water ; cover the stew-pan closely, and let it stew 
gently until the potatoes are ready to mash, and the greater part 
of the gravy is absorbed ; then place it in a dish, and serve it 
very hot. 



24 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK 

GRAVY FOR A ROAST FOWL, 

Boil the neck of the fowl, after having cut it small, in half A 
pint of water, with a seasoning of spice or herbs ; let it stew 
very softly for an hour and a half. When the bird is just ready 
for table, take the gravy from the dripping-pan and drain off the 
fat; strain the liquor from the neck into it, mixing them 
smoothly ; pass the gravy again through the strainer, heat it, 
add seasoning if necessary, and take it hot to table. 

MINCEMEAT. 

Take seven pounds of currants, well picked and cleaned ; of 
finely-chopped beef suet, the lean of a sirloin of beef minced raw, 
and finely-chopped apples Kentish golden pippins each three 
and a half pounds ; citron, lemon peel, and orange peel, cut fine, 
each half a pound ; fine moist sugar, two pounds ; mixed spice, 
an ounce ; the rind of four lemons and four Seville oranges ; mix 
well, and put in a deep pan. Mix a bottle of brandy and white 
wine, and the juice of the lemons and oranges that have been 
grated, together in a basin ; pour half over, and press down tight 
with the hand, then add the other half and cover closely. Some 
families make this one year so as to use it the next. Of course, 
the ingredients may be halved or quartered according to the 
quantity required. 

TO BROWN FLOUR. 

Spread it upon a tin plate set upon the stove, or in a very hot 
oven, and stir continuously after it begins to color until it is 
brown all through. Keep it in a glass jar, covered closely, and 
it will always be ready for use. 

COLLARED SPROUTS. 

Pick over carefully, lay in cold water, slightly salted, for an 
hour, shake in a colander to drain, and put it into boiling water, 
keeping at a fast boil until tender. A piece of pork seasons 
them pleasantly, but in this case put the meat on first, adding 
the sprouts when parboiled, and cooking them together. Boil 
in an uncovered vessel, drain very well, chop and heap in a dish, 
laying the meat on top. 

HOW TO BROWN BUTTER. 

This is a very simple recipe, but a very useful one. Put a 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 25 

lump of butter into a frying-pan according to the amount of 
gravy desired. When it is melted, dredge browned flour over 
it, and stir to a smooth batter until it begins to boil. Use it to 
color gravies, and, in fact, it can be made into a sauce, or almost 
anything ; and if the sauce is required to be strong and good, 
celery, onion, vinegar, brown sugar, cayenne, or a glass of wine 
may be added, but that will be according to the purpose it is re- 
quired for. 

STEWED TURNIPS. 

Cut some new turnips into quarters, put them into a sauce-pan 
with a piece of butter, give them a toss or two on the fire, then 
pour in enough stock to cover them ; add pepper and salt to 
taste, and a pinch of sugar, also a little grated nutmeg, and let 
them stew slowly till done. 

ITALIAN BEEF OLIVES (BRACCIOLETTE.) 

Take a piece of fillet of beef, remove all fat and gristle, and 
mince it finely, mixing with it salt, one or two cloves^ powdered, 
and a little oil and chopped fat bacon, sweet herbs and parsley 
to taste. When well amalgamated, roll it out and divide it into 
small pieces ; form each piece into an olive, roll them in lique- 
fied butter and then in fine bread crumbs. Just before they are 
wanted, broil at a good fire, first on one side, then on the other. 
If done too long, they will be spoiled. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

Put in a pan half a pound of flour, ditto bread crumbs finely 
grated, three-quarters of a pound of chopped beef suet, a pound 
of raisins picked and stoned, ditto currants, a few sweet almonds 
chopped, and half a pound of cut candied peel. Then put in a 
basin some sugar according to taste, a little mixed spice, a little 
salt, and a good grate of ginger ; add the gratings of two lemons 
and the juice of one ; also a wineglass of brandy and two of 
raisin wine ; beat eight eggs, and add them to the sugar, spices, 
lemon peel and juice, and wine ; then make a hole in the pud- 
ding, and pour in the mixture ; stir well together for half an 
hour; butter your mould, and pour in the pudding; tie up the 
mould in a cloth, and boil six hours. 

RAVENSWORTH PUDDING. 

Bake three large apples, and then pulp them ; take one pint 



26 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

of cream, two handfuls of fine bread crumbs, a half a pound of 
pounded loaf sugar, the grated rind of two lemons, and six eggs, 
using only the yolks of four ; mix all together well, beating the 
eggs thoroughly, the yolks first, then the whites. Well butter a 
pudding-mould, throw in a handful of fine bread crumbs, toss 
them well, so that they may stick to the butter all around the 
mould, and shake out any that are loose ; then pour in the above 
mixture, and bake an hour and a half. Serve immediately with 
wine sauce. 

MANCHESTER PUDDING. 

Flavor half a pint of milk with a little lemon peel by infusing 
it for half an hour ; strain it on three ounces of grated bread, and 
boil it for two or three minutes ; add four eggs, leaving the 
whites of two, two ounces of butter, three tablespoonfuls of 
brandy, and sugar to taste ; stir all these ingredients well to- 
gether; line a pie-dish with puff-paste, and at the bottom put a 
thick layer of jam ; pour the above mixture cold on the jam, and 
bake for an hour. Serve cold, witk sifted sugar sprinkled over. 

KISSES. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth ; add the juice o? u 
lemon or a little rose-water. Koll and sift half a pound of the 
whitest loaf sugar, and beat it with the egg. Spread out white 
paper on buttered tins, and drop a tablespoonful of this mixture 
on the paper. The oven should be moderately hot, and when 
the tops have become hard, remove them. Have solution of gum 
arabic, and dip the lower side of the cake, and join it to another. 

CREAM CUSTARD FOR DESSERT ICES. 

Take a quart of fresh cream, and whisk four eggs ; put them 
with the cream, with eight ounces powdered loaf sugar, place the 
whole upon a stove, and stir the mixture with a whisk con- 
stantly, taking care it does not " boil," or it will turn to curds. 
When the custard becomes of a thick consistence, immediately 
take it from the fire, and strain it through a hair sieve. This 
can now be flavored with vanilla, &c. 

DRYING HERBS. 

Herbs should be gathered as soon as they begin to open their 
flowers. In drying them, two methods are employed. One is to 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

tie them in bunches as soon as cut, and hang them up in a room 
or shed ; the other is to first lay them out in the sun to dry. By 
both these methods the Quality is deteriorated. If fermentation 
takes place sufficient to discolor the leaves such as occurs, more 
or less, when herbs are tied up in bunches whilst green and 
sappy their best properties are destroyed. In drying herbs, an 
open shed or room, where plenty of air can be given, is neces- 
sary. Stretch out a piece of netting, such as is used for protect- 
ing fruit from birds wire netting, if at hand, will do ; on this 
lay the herbs, (which should be cut when quite dry,) thinly. 
Thus treated, air acts upon them from all sides, and they dry 
quickly, which is the primary object, without losing their best 
properties. When perfectly dry, put them loosely in white 
paper bags, tie them up, and hang them where they will be free 
from damp, or they will become mouldy. Herbs treated in this 
way will be found but little inferior to such as are fresh cut. 

BAKED HADDOCK. 

Clean and dry the haddock, make a stuffing of bread crumbs, 
a bit of suet chopped, or a little very nice dripping, the yolk of 
an egg, minced parsley, thyme and winter savory, pepper and 
salt, and a little grated lemon peel. Stuff the fish with this 
stuffing, put them into a baking-dish, with butter or dripping 
over them, and about a pint of broth or water, and bake them in 
a moderate oven. Baste the fish several times while cooking, 
and flour it well, which will thicken the gravy. Bake from one 
hour to an hour and a half. 

BAKED APPLE AND ALMOND PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and a quarter of a 
pound of loaf sugar ; pound all well together, then add the well- 
beaten yolks of six eggs. Grate the peel of one lemon, add the 
juice of it, and one tablespoonful of flour. Mix well all to- 
gether ; whip the whites of the six eggs to a stiff froth, and mix 
them with the other ingredients before baking. Pour the whole 
upon a thick layer of stewed apples, already prepared in a 
baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven until brown. 

HOT CRAB. 

Carefully pick out the inside of the crab and the large claws 
and mince them, mixing them thoroughly and seasoning with 



28 If EW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

cayenne pepper and salt. Kub up a teaspoonful or rather less 
of good curry powder in a little cold gravy or cream, or equal 
proportions of both, and mix these with the crab, adding a tea- 
spoonful of Chili vinegar and some finely-grated bread crumbs ; 
clean out the shell very carefully, and place the mixture in it, 
sifting bread crumbs over, add a little butter, and then brown it 
well with a salamander. 

BAKED HALIBUT, CREOLE STYLE. 

Put a halibut steak weighing about a pound in the middle of 
a pan ; sprinkle it with salt and a little onion chopped fine ; 
then spread with tomato enough to cover the fish ; next cover 
with bread crumbs. Add a little butter and salt, then garnish 
the dish with more tomatoes, and bake twenty minutes. 

MUTTON COLLOPS. 

Cut some very thin slices from a cold leg or the chump end of 
a loin of mutton, sprinkle them with pepper, salt, pounded 
mace, minced savory herbs, and minced shalot. Fry them in 
butter, stir in a dessertspoonful of flour, add half a pint of gravy 
and one tablespoonful of lemon juice, simmer very gently for 
about five or seven minutes, and serve immediately 

STEWED SWEETBREADS. 

Trim some sweetbreads and soak them in warm water till 
quite white, blanch in boiling water, and then put them in cold 
water for a short time. When cold dry them, and put them in 
some well-flavored white stock ; stew for half an hour ; beat up 
the yolks of two or three eggs with some cream, a little finely- 
minced parsley and grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste. 
Add this to the sauce, put it on the fire to get quite hot, dish 
the sweetbreads, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

THE WASSAIL-BOWL. 

By those who can afford it, the wassail-bowl should be com- 
posed of sherry, well spiced and sweetened, reeking hot, flavored 
with lemon, and with roasted apples floating on the surface. Ale 
may be substituted for wine for those of inferior resources. " It 
is a good-natured bowl, and accommodates itself to the means of 
all classes, rich and poor ; you may have it of the costliest wine 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 29 

or the humblest malt liquor. But in no case must the roasted 
apples be forgotten." The lamb's wool of our ancestors was 
nothing else but the wassail which we are describing. You may 
stir up the compound with a sprig of rosemary, if you wish to be 
baronial in the enjoyment of the admirable beverage. 

MACEDOINE JELLY. 

Ingredients : Two ounces Nelson's opaque gelatine, five 
lemons, eight ounces white sugar, one pint and a half of water, 
the whites of three eggs, and some fresh fruit. Soak the gela- 
tine in the water for one hour, then add the juice of the lemons, 
the sugar, and the whites of eggs whisked in a little cold water ; 
stir all together gently over the fire until boiling, allow it to set- 
tle a few minutes, then pass through a flannel jelly-bag, pouring 
it, back a few times until quite clear; procure some fresh fruit, 
such as a few grapes, a few cherries, strawberries, greengages, 
and one small apple cut in slices, place them in a jelly mould, 
and stand the mould in cold water ; then pour some of the liquid 
jelly on the top, allow it to set, then fill the mould with the rest 
of the jelly ; place away to set; when required for the table dip 
the mould in warm water for a few seconds, and wipe with a 
cloth and turn on a silver or glass dish before sending to table ; 
place a little fresh fruit round the base of the jelly. 

LEMON CHEESECAKE. 

Line a small dish with puff-paste a quarter of an inch thick, 
then place a rim on the border of the dish with puff-paste of the 
same thickness ; trim off the edges with a knife, and press the 
paste well from the centre of the dish towards the edges ; then 
fill it with the following mixture : Into a stew-pan place one- 
quarter pound butter, six ounces powdered white sugar, three 
.eggs, the grated rind and the juice of two lemons, mix well to- 
gether, and stir gently over a clear fire until it boils ; take the 
stew-pan immediately off, and stand in a basin of cold water; 
when cold fill the cheesecake, and bake it in a warm oven until 
the crust is baked. Send to table on a napkin. 

RICE FLUMMERY. 

Put into a stew-pan one quart of milk, six ounces white sugar, 
one-half ounce isinglass, four ounces ground rice ; let these boil 
gently together half an hour, occasionally stirring ; when cooked 



30 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

add a drop of essence of almonds, half a glass of brandy ; color 
half pink with cochineal, the other leave white ; place one of 
the two in the bottom of a jelly mould, and when nearly cold 
turn in the other ; when required for the table turn out in the 
same manner as directed for the jelly. 

FRIARS' CHICKEN. 

Quarter two or three chickens, and put them into a sauce-pan 
with one pint and a half of water ; add a few sprigs of parsley, 
some mace, pepper and salt to taste ; simmer very slowly until 
the meat will separate into flakes. Just before serving, beat up 
three or four eggs, and stir them, off the fire, into the broth. 
Serve in a deep dish. 

ROMAN PUDDING. 

Butter a basin and line it with boiled maccaroni, round like a 
bee-hive ; have ready veal, ham, tongue, chicken or cold game, 
all cut very finely ; one ounce Parmesan cheese, and a little nut- 
meg, pepper, salt, lemon peel and cayenne, two eggs and a cupful 
of cream ; mix all together and fill your basin. Boil for half an 
hour, glaze it, and serve with good brown gravy. 

MUTTON CUTLETS IN THE PORTUGUESE WAY. 

Cut the chops, and half fry them with sliced shalot or onion, 
chopped parsley, and two bay-leaves ; season with pepper and 
salt ; then lay a forcemeat on a piece of white paper, put the 
chops on it, and twist the paper up, leaving a hole for the end 
of the bones to go through. Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with 
sauce Eobert, or a little gravy. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Season a breast of veal with pepper and salt; skewer the 
sweetbread firmly in its place, flour the meat, and roast it slowly 
before a moderate fire for about two hours it should be of a 
fine brown but not dry ; baste it with butter. When done, put 
the gravy in a stew-pan, add a piece of butter rolled in browned 
flour, and if there should not be quite enough gravy, add a little 
more water, with pepper and salt to the taste. The gravy should 
be brown. 

TO KEEP EGGS. 

Eggs may be kept good for an indefinite period by the follow- 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 31 

ing method : Put them in an open-work basket or colander, and 
immerse them for a moment in boiling water, letting them stay 
just long enough to form a film on the inside of the shell, which 
excludes the air. Then place them in some convenient vessel, 
small end down, and set them in the coolest part of the cellar, 
where they will keep till wanted for use. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS. 

Eggs may be preserved for several months by greasing them 
all over with melted mutton suet and wedging them close to- 
gether, with the small end downward, in a box of bran. To 
keep them for winter use, pour a gallon of boiling water on two 
quarts of quicklime and half a pound of salt ; when cold, mix 
with it one ounce cream of tartar, and the following day put in 
the eggs. 

BUTTERED EGGS. 

Hard boil and chop the eggs ; put them in a stew-pan with 
butter, season with pepper, chopped mushroom and parsley, or 
chopped onion and gherkin ; blend all together with a raw egg, 
and serve on hot toast. 

POOR MAN'S PIE. 

Take the remains of cold sole, haddock, whiting or hake. 
Chop and pound it up with butter, a teaspoonful of French mus- 
tard, a little chutnee, a fragment of garlic, and a few drops of 
Chili vinegar. Put it into a pie-dish, cover it with mashed 
potato, which must be nicely browned. 

TO CURE A HAM. 

One ounce of saltpetre, one ounce of black pepper ground, one 
ounce of juniper berries bruised, one pound of common salt, two 
pounds of brown sugar ; mix all this together, and put on your 
ham ; rub and trim it every day for a month, then hang it up in 
a chimney where wood is burned. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL 

Kipest berries ; mash, put in a linen bag, squeeze out the juice ; 
one pound of the best loaf sugar to every quart of juice ; put in 
a preserving sauce- pan, and, when melted, set on the fire and 
boil to a thin jelly ; when cold, to every quart of juice allow a 
quart of brandy ; stir well and bottle. Keady for use at once. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two small cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, three eggs, one 
cup of milk, four ounces of chocolate, three cups of flour, one 
tablespoonful of vanilla extract, one teaspoonful of soda, two of 
cream of tartar ; mix the cake first, and when it is well beaten, 
take the chocolate, and stir it in carefully. This makes an ex- 
cellent cake. 

SPRAT TOAST. 

Bone as many sprats as you require. This can be easily done 
if they are plainly fried in salt. Pound them up well with but- 
ter, pepper, salt, chopped onion, chopped parsley, and enough 
Swiss milk to moisten it to a paste ; heat it for a few moments, 
and serve on slices of fried bread or hot buttered toast. Her- 
rings, pilchards, and the remains of any cold fish may be utilized 
in this way. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Drain the liquor from two quarts of firm, plump oysters, mix 
with it a small teacupful of hot water and a little salt and pep- 
per, and set over the fire in a sauce-pan. When it boils, add 3 
large cupful of rich milk. Let it boil up once, add the oysters, 
and let them boil five minutes. When they ruffle, add two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, and the instant it is meltetf and well 
stirred in, take off the fire. 

TO STUFF A HAM. 

Select a nice ham and boil it ; when done, let it get cold before 
you skin and trim it. Prepare a stuffing of bread crumbs, but- 
ter, pepper, parsley, thyme and celery. Begin at the hock, and 
make incisions with a sharp knife, about an inch apart ; put in 
the stuffing as you draw out the knife. Hub in a bowl the yolks 
of two hard-boiled eggs, and brandy sufficient to make a paste ; 
spread it on the ham smoothly, and grate over it bread crumbs ; 
stick in cloves ; ornament. Put it in the oven, and let it brown 
gently. Eaten cold. 

TO BAKE A HAM. 

Unless when too salt from not being sufficiently soaked, a ham 
(particularly a young and fresh one) eats much better baked than 
boiled, and remains longer good. The safer plan is to lay it in 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 33 

plenty of cold water over night. The following day soak it for 
an hour or more in warm water, wash it delicately clean, trim 
smoothly off' all rusty parts, and lay it with the rind downwards 
in a coarse paste, rolled to about ah inch thick ; moisten the 
edges, draw and pinch them together, and fold them over on the 
wpper side of the ham, taking care to close them so that no gravy 
can escape. Send it to a well-heated hut not a fierce oven. A 
very small ham will n quire three hours' baking, and a large one 
live. The crust and the skin must be removed while it is hot. 
When only part of a ham is dressed, this mode is better far than 
boiling it. 

BAKED MACKEREL 

Wash, scale and empty as many fresh mackerel as required ; 
make a stuffing of mashed potatoes, bread crumbs, sweet herbs, 
minced onion, pepper, salt and beaten egg; stuff each fish, and 
replace the roes, if you have any ; sew up the slit, and put the 
mackerel in a well-floured baking-pan, heads and tails together; 
bake slowly for one hour. Serve hot. 

MARION CAKE. 

Put together in a pan fourteen ounces of sifted loaf sugar, the 
yolks of eight eggs, eight ounces of fine white flour, and a table- 
spoonful of orange-flower water. Beat all together till thoroughly 
mixed. Whip a pint of cream till light, and whisk the whites 
of the eight eggs to a thick froth. Beat these into the other in- 
gredients, and put in a pan lined with buttered paper. Bake in 
a quick oven half an hour. 

BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Boil together in a sauce-pan one pint of milk and the grated 
peel of a small lemon. In another sauce-pan boil a teacupful of 
rice until tender, and, when done, drain off all the water. Beat 
four eggs till light, stir them into the milk with an ounce of fresh 
butter, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and two tablespoonfuls of 
rose-water. Add the rice. Stir all well together, and bake in a 
buttered tin half an hour. 

POTTED MEAT. 

Take any well-roasted or boiled meat, remove all gristle, hard 



34 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

pieces and fat from it, mince, and then pound it in a mortal* 
with a little butter, reduced gravy, and a spoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce; beat it to a smooth paste, seasoning during the pro- 
cess with pounded cloves and allspice, mace or grated nutmeg, 
salt and a little cayenne. Put the mixture into pots, press it 
close down, cover with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool, dry 
place. 

TO CURE TONGUES. 

For a tongue that weighs seven pounds, put one ounce of salt- 
petre, half an ounce of black pepper, two ounces of sugar, and 
three ounces of juniper berries. In two days it will be fit for 
cooking. Take care to have the gullet cut away before it is 
cooked. 

HANI TOAST. 

Scrape or pound some cold ham, mix it with beaten egg, 
season with pepper, lay it upon buttered toast, and place it in a 
hot oven for three or four minutes. Dried salmon, smoked 
tongue, potted meats, or any other relishing viands, answer 
equally well upon toast. 

FINE PANCAKES. 

Take a pint of cream, eight eggs, (leave out two of the 
whites,) three large spoonfuls of orange-flower water, a little 
sugar and grated nutmeg ; melt a small quantity of butter with 
the cream over the fire, then add three spoonfuls of flour, and 
mix well together ; butter the frying-pan for the first ; let them 
run as thin as you can in the pan, fry them quick, and send 
them up hot. 

FOWL AND RICE CROQUETTES. 

Put half pound rice into one quart of stock, and let it boil 
very gently for half an hour, then add three ounces butter, and 
simmer it till quite dry and soft; when cold, make it into balls, 
hollow out the inside, and fill with minced fowl made rather 
thick, cover over with rice, dip the balls into egg, sprinkle 
them with bread-crumbs, and fry a nice brown ; dish them, and 
garnish with fried parsley, oysters, white sauce, or a little cream 
may be stirred into the rice before it cools. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 35 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Peel a raw potato as apples are peeled ; let the parings be as 
near as possible the same thickness, and let them be as long as 
possible ; dry them thoroughly in a cloth, put them in the 
frying-basket, and plunge it in boiling hot lard ; when the chips 
are a golden color, drain them well in front of the fire, sprinkle 
fine salt over them, and serve with roast game. 

EGG WINE. 

Beat an egg, and mix with it a tablespoonful of cold water ; 
make half a glass of cold water and one glass of sherry hot, but 
not boiling, pour it upon the egg, stirring all the time, add a 
little lump sugar and grated nutmeg ; put all into a very clean 
saucepan, set it on a gentle fire, and stir the contents one way, 
until they thicken, but they must not boil ; serve in a glass with 
sippets of toasted bread or plain crisp biscuits. If the egg is not 
warmed, the mixture will be found easier of digestion, but it is 
not so pleasant a drink. 

VEGETABLE MARROW PRESERVE. 

Peel the marrow, take out the seeds and cut in strips like 
marmalade ; put a pound of loaf sugar to each pound of strips, 
letting it lie all night to draw .juice ; next day put rind grated 
and juice of one large lemon to each pound of the mixture ; 
boil all till clear, which will take quite an hour. 

FRENCH RICE PUDDING. 

Boil a cupful of rice in milk until it is well swollen ; add 
three eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pound of raisins of the 
sun, (as these do not require stoning,) a little sugy and nutmeg, 
all beaten up together with the rice ; fill a mou" ., and bake for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

APPLE CREAM. 

Make a good custard pretty thick, put it in a glass dish ; take 
three or four baked apples, rub the pulp through a sieve ; add 
four ounces of sugar sifted to the pulp, the whites of two new- 
laid eggs, the juice of half a lemon whipped for a full hour ; 
then put it in spoonfuls on the apple as lightly as you can. 



S6 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Boil the rind of a lemon pared very thin in half a pint of 
water till yellow, then strain it off and let it stand till cold ; add 
the juice of two lemons, the yolks of two eggs and the whites of 
three ; sugar to your taste j stir all together on a slow fire till as 
thick as cream; pour it into jelly glasses when cold. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Split and stone three dozen fine raisins, or take an equal num- 
ber of dried cherries, and place them regularly in a sort of pat- 
tern in a thickly-buttered plain quart mould or basin ; next 
slice and lay into it three penny sponge-cakes ; add to these two 
ounces ratafias, four maccaroons, an ounce and a half candied 
citron sliced thin, the yolks of four eggs (with whites of three 
only) thoroughly whisked, mixed with half pint new milk, then 
strained, to half pint sweet cream, and sweetened with two 
ounces and a half pounded sugar; these ought to fill the mould 
exactly. Steam the pudding, or boil it very gently f< r one hour, 
Let it stand a few minutes before dished, and serve with good 
sauce. 

GALETTE. 

This cake is a great favorite in France. Sift a pound of the 
best flour, put it in a heap on the pastry-board, make a hole in 
the middle, put into it a pinch of salt and one of sifted sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, and a gill of water. Knead 
the ingredients together, and when they begin to mix, sprinkle 
over by degrees half a gill of water, continuing to knead with 
the palm of the hand, and, when the paste is perfectly smooth, 
make it into a ball, and let it lie for an hour. At the end of 
this time, roll out the paste to the thickness of half an inch ; 
mark the edges as for Scotch shortbread, put the cake on a 
baking-sheet, brush over the top with yolk of egg, and score it 
in the form of diamonds. Bake in a quick oven for half an hour, 
or until the galette is elastic on the pressure of the finger. 

IRISH STEW. 

Take part of a neck of mutton, cut it into small pieces, put it 
into a kettle, the meat well covered with water ; some onions cut 
in slice*-, pepper and salt ; a number of potatoes must be cut 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 37 

rather larger than the meat (not sliced) ; put them at the top, 
let all stew together till done. A breast is nice done this way. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Take three large baking apples, pare them, and cut the cores 
square out, and fill the holes with butter and sugar, and a little 
of any seasoning preferred. Butter a deep dish, lay the apples 
in it, and cover them with batter, such as the fritters are made 
of, and bake in a quick oven al)out half an hour. 

PEACH PIE. 

Take mellow, juicy peaches, wash and put them in a deep 
pie-dish lined with pie-crust, sprinkle a thick layer of sugar on 
each layer of peaches, put in about a tablespoonful of water, and 
sprinkle a little flour over the top; cover it with a thick crust, 
and bake the pie from fifty to sixty minutes. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Slices from a fresh salmon, well scaled, cleansed and wiped ; 
two ounces of butter, melted ; one teaspoonful of flour ; one salt- 
spoonful of salt ; melt the butter smoothly, thicken it with 
flour, add the salt, and roll the salmon well in it ; make a very 
clear fire, take a perfectly clean gridiron, and broil carefully ; 
time, ten minutes. 

CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS. 

One quart of new milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, two of 
sugar ; season with nutmeg or cinnamon, and add salt to your 
liking. The milk should be placed over a quick fire, and, when 
at a boiling point, the flour should be added, being previously 
stirred up in cold milk. As soon as thoroughly scalded, add the 
sugar, spices and salt. This is an excellent dish, and deservedly 
prized by every one who has tried it. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

To picklo cucumbers to keep through the winter, steep in 
strong brine for a week, then pour it off, heat it to boiling, and 
pour it over the cucumbers. In twenty-four hours drain on a 
eloth, pack in wide-mouthed bottles, fill these with strong hot 



38 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

pickling vinegar, and seal at once. Various spices may be 
added in the bottles. 

PARMESAN OMELET. 

Beat up three eggs, with pepper and salt to taste, and a table- 
spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese ; put a piece of butter, the 
size of an egg, into the omelet-pan ; as soon as it is melted, pour 
in the eggs, and, holding the handle of the pan with one hand, 
stir the omelet with the other by means of a flat spoon. The 
moment the omelet begins to set, cease stirring, but keep shaking 
the pan for a minute or so ; then, with the spoon, double up the 
omelet, and keep on shaking the pan until the under side is of 
a good color ; turn it out on a hot dish, colored side uppermost, 
and serve. 

PICKLED BEANS. 

Put inl ,} two gallons of water enough salt to float an egg ; then 
boil the salt and water for ten minutes, and put it away to get 
cold. Pick French beans or scarlet runners before they are 
stringy, put them whole into an earthenware crock, and pour the 
above pickle over them. Have ready a piece of wood that will 
entirely cover them ; lay a cloth over the beans, and then put 
on the piece of wood and a heavy weight to press them under 
the pickle. Not more than twenty pounds of beans should be 
kept in one crock, as they do not keep well in large quantities. 
They keep crisp and good for seven months, if in a dry place. 
About once a fortnight the cloth should be rinsed in boiling 
water and then in cold, as a scum will often rise. When re- 
quired for use, take out a sufficient quantity, soak them for six 
hours, changing the water once or twice ; then cut them up for 
table, and boil them like fresh beans. They are very acceptable 
when vegetables are limited in quantity and poor in quality. 

GERMAN YEAST. 

This is only the ordinary beer yeast, kept fresh and fit for use 
for several months, by placing it in a close canvas bag, and 
gently and gradually squeezing out the moisture in a screw- 
press, until the remaining matter acquires the consistency of 
clay or soft cheese, in which state it must be preserved in close 
vessels, or wrapped in waxen cloth, 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOIt BOOK. 39 

POUND CAKE. 

I. Take one pound each of sugar, butter, eggs, and flour, 
mixed into a paste, with a teacupful of milk, half an ounce of 
sal volatile being added to make them light. 2. Take one and 
a quarter pounds of butter, the same of loaf sugar, one pint of 
eggs, three-quarters of an ounce of volatile salt, a teacupful of 
milk, and three pounds of flour. 3. Take one pint of eggs, one 
pound of loaf sugar, six ounces of butter, two pounds of flour, 
half an ounce of volatile salt. Beat the butter to a cream in a 
smooth-glazed warm earthenware dish, stir in the sugar by de- 
grees, then the eggs ; also, gradually, before they are all in, add 
a part of the flour, and mix it with the remaining portion 
of the eggs well together; then dissolve the volatile salt in 
the milk ; add a little of this and of the flour alternately, till the 
whole have been added, and until all the ingredients are well 
incorporated together. It may now be poured into buttered 
tins, surrounded by paper, filling them about three parts full, 
and sprinkling a few currants at the top of each. The whole 
mixing should be completed as rapidly as possible, and the 
cakes immediately put into a slow oven. To know when it is 
done, thrust a small wooden skewer into it ; if dry when taken 
out, the cake is done ; if sticky, it must be baked longer. 4. Beat 
one pound of butter in an earthen pan until it is like a fine thick 
cream, then beat in nine whole eggs till quite light ; put in a 
glass of brandy, a little lemon-peel shred fine, then work in one 
and a quarter pounds of flour ; put it into a hoop or pan and 
bake it for an hour. A pound plum cake is made the same, 
with putting one and a half pounds of cleaned washed currants 
and half a pound of candied lemon-peel. 

POTATO JELLY. 

To obtain this jelly in perfection, let a potato be washed, 
peeled, and grated; throw the pulp, thus procured, into a jug 
of water, and stir it well. Pass the mixture of pulp and water 
over a sieve, and collect the water which passes through into a 
basin. Let this stand for a few minutes, and sufficient quantity 
of starch will have fallen for the purpose required. Pour off the 
water, and then keep stirring up the starch at the bottom of the 
basin, while boiling water is being poured upon it, and it will 
soon and suddenly pass to the state of a jelly. The only nicety 
required is to be careful that the water is absolutely boiling, 
otherwise the change will not take place. It does not require 



40 NEW AMEEICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

more than eight minutes to change a raw potato into a basinful 
of most excellent jelly, which has only to be seasoned with a 
little sugar, nutmeg and white wine, to please the most fastidious 
palate. 

RAISINS. 

To stone raisins easily, pour boiling water over them and 
drain it off; this loosens the stones, and they come out clean 
and with ease. 

ANGELS ON HORSEBACK. 

Place a large cooking oyster in a piece of fat bacon, tie it up 
with cotton, and just toast it for a moment before the fire. Serve 
on a piece of toast. 

POUNDED POTATOES-IRISH WAY. 

Peel a sufficient quantity of potatoes while raw, after having 
been well washed ; pick out all discolored bits, eyes, etc. ; put 
them into cold water ; when boiled that is, when they break 
on a fork being stuck into them drain them, scatter a handful 
of salt over them, cover with a clean dry cloth, and let the 
saucepan stand on the range or hob until they are well steamed ; 
take off the saucepan, set it on the floor, and with a wooden in- 
strument, called in Ireland a " beetle," pound them well ; add a 
good lump of butter a couple of ounces and about half a pint 
of sweet milk, added by degrees ; pound until the potatoes are 
quite smooth ; then set the saucepan back on the range to re- 
heat thoroughly before dishing. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Take four tablespoonfuls of tapioca, rinse it thoroughly, then 
soak it five hours, in cold water enough to cover it. Set a pint 
of cold water on the fire ; when it boils, mash and stir up the 
tapioca that is in the water and mix it with the boiling water ; 
let the whole simmer gently, with a stick of cinnamon or mace. 
When thick and clear, mix a couple of tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar, with half a tablespoonful of lemon-juice and half a glass 
of white wine ; stir it into the jelly. If not sweet enough, add 
more sugar, and turn the jelly into cups. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 41 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. 

Take one pound flour, half a pound treacle, half a pound 
sugar, a quarter pound butter, half ounce ground ginger, six- 
teen drops essence of lemon, potash the size of a nut, dissolved 
in a tablespoonful of hot water ; mix all together. Butter a 
baking-tin, and drop the mixture on it in lumps the size of a 
walnut, a good distance apart. Bake in a moderate oven. 
Keep in tins closely covered. 

VEAL BROTH. 

Stew a knuckle of veal of four or five pounds in three quarts 
of water, with two blades of mace, an onion, a head of celery, 
and a little parsley, pepper and salt; let the wholo simmer 
very gently until the liquor is reduced to two quarts ; then take 
out the meat, when the mucilaginous parts are done, and serve 
up with parsley and butter. Add to the broth either two 
ounces rice, separately boiled, or of vermaceli ; put in only long 
enough to be stewed tender. Dish the knuckle separately, and 
serve it with parsley and butter. 

TO PRESERVE BUTTER. 

Melt it in an earthen vessel, surrounded with warm water ; 
skim the butter until clear, and pour the pure portion off into 
pots, which should be filled to the top and closely covered. A 
little salt may be added before pouring, and should be stirred 
in, afterwards allowing the butter to clear. Or, mix two ounces 
of salt with one ounce each of saltpetre and white sugar ; add 
one ounce of this mixture, in fine powder, to each pound of 
butter, working it well in. The butter must not be used for a 
month, and the pots containing it must be filled to the brim. 

NORWICH BISCUITS. 

Take six pounds of flour, eight or ten ounces of butter, and 
one quart of milk. A little sugar may be added, but it is not 
usually employed. Warm half of the milk to a blood heat, then 
add yeast enough to make it slightly bitter, rub into this about one 
pound of the flour, and put it in a warm place. It will soon rise, 
and after a little time fall again. Now rub the butter into the 
flour with the remaining portion of the milk warmed as before. 
Add it all to the sponge, and set it in a warm place to rise a 



42 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

second time. Separate portions of this dough, which should 
be rather stiff, making eighteen or twenty pieces from a pound 
of dough ; mould them into a round ball under your hands, 
place them on slightly-buttered tins, from two to three inches 
asunder, flatten them a little, and stamp them with a docker. 
Prove them, and bake in rather a cool oven, so as to admit of 
their being baked through, that they may eat short and crisp ; 
if they should not be sufficiently dried when taken out, finish 
them in the stove. At Norwich they are baked on the bottom 
of the oven. These biscuits are commonly called in London 
milk biscuits, and are recommended as children's food, being 
supposed to be made without butter. Also they go by different 
names in some parts of the country, as fingers, half-moons, fancy 
biscuits, and tea biscuits, and are made of various forms. 

MIXED PICKLE. 

To each gallon of vinegar allow one-quarter pound bruised 
ginger, one-quarter pound mustard, one-quarter pound salt, two 
ounces mustard seed, one and a-half ounces turmeric, one ounce 
ground black pepper, one-quarter ounce cayenne ; cauliflowers, 
onions, celery, sliced cucumbers. Have a large jar with a tightly- 
fitting lid, in which put as much vinegar as is required, reserv- 
ing a little to mix the various powders to a smooth paste. Put 
into a basin the mustard, turmeric, pepper, and cayenne ; mix 
them with vinegar, and stir until no lumps remain ; add all the 
ingredients to the vinegar and mix well. Keep this liquor in a 
warm place and stir thoroughly every morning with a wooden 
spoon for near a month, when it will be ready for the vegetables 
to be added. As these come into season have them gathered on 
a dry day, and after merely wiping them with a cloth to free 
them from moisture, put them into the pickle. The cauliflowers 
should be divided into small bunches. Put all the vegetables 
into the pickle raw, and at the end of the season, when the vege- 
tables are all procured, store away in jars and tie over with a 
bladder. As none of the ingredients are boiled, this pickle will 
not be fit for eating for several months. The contents must be 
stirred each morning. 

WILD DUCK. 

Wild duck, if fishy, and the flavor is disliked, should be 
scalded for a few minutes in salt and water before roasting. If 
the flavor is very strong, the duck may be skinned, as the oil of 



AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 43 

the skin is the objectionable part. After skinning, spread with 
butter and thickly dredge with flour before putting in a very 
quick oven. 

SCOTCH CREAM. 

Put skim milk over night in a tub which has a plug at the 
bottom, and put this tub into another filled with hot water. In 
the morning take out the small tub and draw off the thin part 
of the milk, until the thick sour cream begins to come. This 
process requires practice as to the heat of the water ; when it 
succeeds, skimmed milk yields nearly half of this cream, which 
is eaten with sugar as a delicacy. It is only distinguishable 
from cream by its taste. 

SHORT BREAD. 

Take one and a-quarter pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of butter, three eggs, quarter of an ounce of vola- 
tile salts, and a little essence of lemon. Make four cakes out of 
five ounces of dough, mould into a round form, then roll them 
out into an oval shape, pinch them around the edges, put a piece 
of candied lemon peel at the top, and bake slowly. 

CELERY WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Trim the roots and cut to about six inches three heads of 
celery, wash them carefully, tie them together with string ; put 
them in a saucepan with an onion, a blade of mace, some whole 
pepper, salt, and sufficient boiling water to cover them. Let 
them boil till quite done, then drain them, remove the string, 
and serve with the following sauce over them : Melt one ounce 
butter in a saucepan, and mix with it a dessertspoonful of flour, 
add as much of the water in which the celery was boiled as is 
wanted to make the sauce, put salt to taste, and stir in off the 
fire the yolk of an egg, beaten up with the juice of a lemon and 
strained. 

TO BOIL CODFISH. 

Crimped cod is preferable to the plain, it is likewise better cut 
in slices than cooked whole ; to boil it well have the water ready 
boiling, with one pound of salt to every six quarts ; put in the 
fish, draw the fish-kettle to the corner of the fire, where let it 
simmer slowly from twenty minutes to half an hour ; when done, 



44 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

the bone in the centre will draw out easily ; if boiled too much 
it will eat tough and stringy. Should the fish not be crimped, 
add more salt to the water ; it will cause the fish to eat firmer. 
Oyster sauce and plain melted butter are served with codfish. 

BATH BUNS. 

Take one pound of flour, to one-third of it add in a hole in 
the centre a tablespoonful of yeast and a teacupful of warm 
milk, let it stand for an hour in a warm place to rise. When 
risen, add six ounces butter and four eggs, with the rest of the 
flour, six ounces sugar and a little pounded cinnamon to taste; 
mix all well together, cover it over, and let it rise again. Shape 
it into buns, leaving it as rough as possible, sift some sugar and 
a few comfits on the top, sprinkle with a little water, and bake 
in a moderate oven on well-buttered tins. 

NOYEAU. 

1. Take one and a-half gallons of French brandy, six ounces 
of the best French prunes, two ounces of celery, three ounces of 
the kernels of apricots, nectarines, and peaches, one ounce of 
bitter almonds, all gently bruised, essence of orange peel and 
essence of lemon peel, each, two pennyweights; and half a 
pound of loaf sugar. Let the whole stand ten days or a fort- 
night, then draw off, and add to the clear noyeau as much rose 
water as will make it up to two gallons. 2. Blanched bitter 
almonds, one ounce ; proof spirit, one quart ; lump sugar, one 
pound ; dissolved in half a pint of water ; digest and filter. 3. 
Bitter almonds, blanched, three ounces ; coriander seed, quarter 
of an ounce ; cinnamon, ginger, and mace, of each, one drachm ; 
proof spirit, two quarts; white sugar, two pounds ; dissolved in 
one and a-half pints of water. Macerate for a week, and fine 
down with quarter of an ounce of alum. 4. To one gallon 
spirits of wine or white brandy add two drachms of the oil of 
Seville oranges, four pounds of apricot and peach kernels. Beat 
them up in a mortar before you mix them with the brandy, then 
put them into it, and shake them up two or three times a day 
for three days ; add the oil, killed, and one quart of cherry- 
juice. 5. Instead of the kernels, put for the above quantity, 
half an ounce of the oil of bitter almonds ; sweeten and color to 
fancy. Noyeau must never be drank except in small quanti- 
ties, on account of the poisonous character of the oil of the ker- 
nels, and from which ingredient it takes its flavor and name. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 45 

COD'S ROE FRIED IN BATTER. 

Wash the roe well ; then put it into a saucepan on the fire, 
well covered with salted water, to which has been added a little 
lemon-juice or vinegar. Boil for ten minutes ; drain, and leave 
it to get cold ; then cut the roe into slices a quarter of an inch 
thick, dip the slices of roe into batter, and fry in butter until of 
a light brown color. Serve, garnished with fried parsley and 
with slices of lemon. Batter : Beat up together the yolks of two 
eggs, one tablespoonful of olive oil, and four or five tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water ; amalgamate with this three tablespoonfuls 
of fine flour, and a good pinch of salt ; beat the mixture five or 
ten minutes, adding a little more water, if too thick. Just be- 
fore using it, stir into it lightly and quickly, the whites of two 
eggs whisked to a froth. 

FRENCH BEANS. 

Cut the ends off' the beans, string them, and cut them in pieces 
about one inch long, and put them in cold water with a little 
salt in it ; put in a saucepan two quarts of water, a heaping 
tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of powdered sugar ; let it 
boil, and, when boiling, throw in the beans ; let them boil hard 
till they sink in the water ; drain through a colander, and put 
in a hot dish ; season with butter, pepper and salt. 

BAKED OR STEWED CALF'S FOOT. 

Well clean one calf's foot, and either stew or bake it for three 
to four hours in one pint of milk, one pint of water, one blade 
of mace, the rind of half a lemon, pepper and salt to taste. An 
onion and a small quantity of celery may be added, if approved. 
Half a teacupful of cream stirred in, just before it is taken, is a 
great improvement. 

FRICASSEE OF FOWL. 

Cut a fowl or chicken into eight pieces : that is, the two wings 
and legs, dividing the back and breast into two pieces each ; 
wash well, put them into a stewpan and cover with water, season 
with a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a bunch of parsley, 
four cloves, and a blade of mace ; let boil twenty minutes, pass 
the stock through a sieve into a basin, take out the pieces of 
fowl, trim well ; then, in another stewpan, put two ounces 



46 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

butter, with which mix a good spoonful of flour, moisten with 
the stock, and put in the pieces of fowl ; stir occasionally until 
boiling, skim, add twenty button onions, let simmer until the 
onions are tender, when add a gill of cream, with which you 
have mixed the yolks of two eggs ; stir it quickly over the fire, 
but do not let it boil ; take out the pieces, dress upon your dish, 
sauce over, and serve. 

BAKED CALPS HEAD. 

Boil the head until you can pick out all the bones, and keep 
the water the head is boiled in ; take your pieces and lay them 
in a dish, having cut them small; use some salt, pepper, a little 
parsley, a grate of nutmeg, a small piece of butter and some dry 
breadcrumbs, say a teacupful of the latter; moisten it all with 
some of the water the head has been boiled in ; put in a baking- 
dish, and let it bake half an hour ; take the yolks of two eggs, 
and make a sauce with the boiled liquor ; make soup of the rest 
of the liquor. 

BEEFSTEAK STEWED WITHOUT WATER. 

Get three pounds or four pounds rumpsteak, cut about an 
inch thick ; put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan large enough 
to hold your steak, and let the butter melt without browning ; 
wash the steak quickly in cold water, and put it in the frying- 
pan, covering closely. As soon as it is thoroughly heated, season 
with a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of white pepper ; 
then push the pan back on the stove where it will simmer not 
boil keeping it covered all the time, and a weight on the cover. 
It will be found to be cooked and perfectly tender in an hour 
and a half Put on a hot dish, and add half a teacupful of to- 
mato or two tablespoonfuls of walnut catsup to the gravy in the 
pan, and pour it over the steak. 

BAKED BEEF TEA. 

Cut one pound fleshy beef into small pieces ; take away all 
the fat, and put into a baking-jar with half a pint of water and 
half a saltspoonful of salt. Cover the jar well, and place it in a 
warm but not hot oven, and bake for three or four hours ; it 
should be strained, and kept in a cool place until wanted. It 
may also be flavored with an onion, a clove, and some sweet 
herbs if the invalid is strong enough to take them. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 47 

MINCED CHICKEN OR MUTTON WITH EGGS, FOR 
INVALIDS. 

Take, if chicken, some of the white meat from the breast, and 
remove all skin and outside parts ; if mutton, an underdone slice 
or two from the leg, saddle, or loin ; mince it very finely ; put 
it into a stewpan with a little very good strong gravy or beef tea, 
free from fat ; flavor it, if liked, with a few herbs and spices, and 
simmer gently until quite hot, but not boiling ; then thicken it 
with a little bntter and flour, and season to taste with pepper 
and salt. Put this mince on a small dish, and serve on the top 
of a nicely-poached egg. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

To two pounds of flour add half a pound of beef-dripping or 
bacon-fat, half a pound of sultanas, four ounces of moist sugar, 
one ounce of lemon-peel, a little salt. Let the flour be dried, 
then rub into it the dripping, taking care that both are well 
mixed and free from lumps ; shred the lemon-peel finely, and 
add with the salt, sugar and sultanas, these latter being thor- 
oughly freed from the stalks and gritty matter. Rub all to- 
gether ; make a hole in the centre of *the mass, and pour in a 
tablespoonful of fresh brewers' yeast ; then, with warm water, 
mix the whole well till it is of the consistence of moist dough ; 
well cover, and stand in a warm place to rise, then bake in tins. 
This quantity will make two large cakes, each of which will 
take an hour and a half to bake in a moderate oven. If yeast 
is not procurable, a tablespoonful of Berwick's baking-powder 
may be substituted ; then the cake may be at once put into the 
tins and consigned to the oven. 

COLLEGE PUDDING. 

Take eight ounces breadcrumbs, eight ounces suet, eight 
ounces currants, one ounce citron-peel, one ounce orange-peel, 
a little sugar and nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolks and whites 
separately, and a glass of brandy. Mix well, and shape them 
into balls ; rub them over with egg and roll them in flour. Fry 
a nice brown in boiling butter or lard, and drain them on blot- 
ting-paper ; or, they may be put into small molds and baked in 
the oven. In either case, serve with wine or brandy sauce. 



48 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

SAVORY RICE. 

Chop an onion very tine, and fry it in butter till it be of a 
gold color ; then stir in a teacupful of rice ; let it cook in the 
butter for a few minutes, stirring all the time; then add one 
pint of good gravy, and let it simmer slowly. When nearly 
cooked, put a little grated nutmeg, Parmesan cheese, salt and 
pepper, to taste. Mix it up well, and, when thoroughly done v 
let it stand a few minutes before the fire, and, just before serving, 
stir in a small piece more of butter. Serve garnished with cro- 
quettes of any kind of meat, with stewed tomatoes tinned or 
with slices of fried bacon. 

MUTTON MINCED. 

Take some slices of cold mutton, about one-quarter of a pound, 
free them entirely from fat, gristle and outside parts, and mince 
them very finely ; melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, 
and stir into it a tablespoonful of flour ; keep stirring till it gets 
brown, then add half a pint of good stock, some powdered sweet 
herbs, pepper and salt to taste, and the minced meat; keep 
on stirring till the mixture is quite hot, add a little chopped 
parsley, then work into the mixture the yolks of one or two eggs 
beaten up with a little 4emori-juice. Serve within a wall of 
mashed potatoes, or rice plainly boiled or dressed with tomato 
sauce. 

RICE. 

Boil the rice fifteen minutes in salted water ; then turn off the 
water, and pour in a little milk ; let it simmer gently till the 
rice is soft ; then let it stand where it will not burn for ten min- 
utes, in order to evaporate the milk, so that the particles of rice 
may be dry ami separate from each other. May be eaten with 
fruit sauce, or a little sugar or syrup, or as it is. 

SLICED POTATOES, 

Boil eight large potatoes in their skins, and let them cool. 
When cold, peel them and cut them into thick slices ; put into a 
stewpan two ounces of butter in a thin slice, and when it is 
melted, add a teacupful of well-seasoned stock or gravy, a tea- 
spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and a teaspoonful of mixed 
pepper and salt. Stir these well together over the fire till hot, 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 49 

add the potatoes, simmer five minutes, stir in the juice of a 
lemon, and serve hot. 

POTATO RIBBONS. 

Cut the potatoes into slices rather less than an inch thick, free 
them from the skins, and pare round and round in very long 
and thin ribbons ; place them in a pan of cold water, and, a 
short time before they are wanted on the table, drain them from 
the water. Fry them in hot lard or good dripping until they 
are quite crisp and browned ; drain and dry them on a soft 
cloth, pile them on a hot dish, and season them with salt and 
cayenne in fine powder. 

POTATO PIE. 

Have ready a rich crust, lay in the pie-dish slices of boiled 
sweet potato and thin slices of a mellow apple, then spread 
thickly sugar and butter ; cover with a crust, and bake nicely. 

CHICKEN AND HAM PIE. 

Season some slices of boiled ham, lay them on a puff-paste 
about half an inch thick ; then season some pieces of chicken 
and place them on the ham, with the yolks of some hard eggs ; 
cover these with more slices of ham, season as before, put some 
gravy in, and put a puff-crust on the top, and bake it thoroughly. 
If to be eaten hot, more gravy may be added when done. 

CONSOME A LA REGENCE. 

Ingredients : Four pounds lean beef, three onions, three car- 
rots, one turnip, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a sprig of parsley, 
some seasoning, a little soy, a bunch of watercresses, the whites 
of five eggs, and four quarts of water. Cut the onions, carrots 
and turnip into thin slices and lay them in the bottom of a stew- 
pan ; cut the beef into small pieces and lay on the top of the 
vegetables ; place on the stove, and allow to cook gently one 
hour ; then add four quarts of water ; let it come to the boil, 
take off the scum as it rises ; when entirely free from scum, add 
a little soy, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little parsley, some 
Seasoning, and let simmer gently three hours. Lightly butter a 
tin mould, put in it the whites of five eggs, cover the mould with 

p 



50 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

paper, and place in a stewpan with a little boiling water ; cook 
until the whites are quite firm ; when cooked, cut the whites into 
small squares ; keep warm until wanted. Throw the leaves of a 
bunch of watercresses into boiling water to blanch for one 
minute, then drain on a cloth ; strain the soup through a fine 
cloth, take off any fat that remains, with a sheet of white paper 
laid lightly on the top ; allow it to boil, pour in the tureen, 
throw in the whites of eggs and the blanched watercresses ; serve 
immediately. 

WHITE SOUP A LA BEATRICE. 

Ingredients : One fowl, one pound veal, one onion, a little 
celery, one carrot, some seasoning, three quarts of water, one 
quart of milk, one gill of cream, two blades of mace, four ounces 
of lean ham, one tin of preserved green peas, and a little roux. 
Cut the fowl and veal into pieces, place them in a stewpan with 
the vegetables cut into slices, add some seasoning, two blades of 
mace, and three quarts of water ; let boil, take off the scum, and 
let simmer four hours ; strain off the gravy from the fowl and 
veal, add to it one quart of milk, a gill of cream, and a little 
roux ; let boil to the consistency of cream, strain through a fine 
hair sieve. Place in the tureen one tin of preserved green peas 
previously made hot, and four ounces of lean ham cut into small 
diamonds ; pour the boiling soup over and serve. 

SALMON CUTLETS, SWISS SAUCE. 

Ingredients : Two pounds of small salmon, a little anchovy 
sauce, five eggs, some breadcrumbs, seasoning, one pint of stock, 
two ounces of French capers, and a few preserved mushrooms, a 
little roux, and lard for frying. Slit the salmon down the 
middle with a sharp knife, take out the bone and Irim off the 
skin, and cut into slices one-third of an inch thick ; whisk up 
two eggs, add a little anchovy sauce and some seasoning. Well 
flour the cutlets, dip them in the egg-mixture, then in the 
bread crumbs. Ten minutes before dinner-time, have ready 
some boiling lard and place in the cutlets, (a few at a time,) and 
fry a golden brown ; when cooked, drain on some paper to 
absorb the fat. Place in a stewpan one pint of good stock, a 
tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, two ounces capers, and a few 
mushrooms chopped fine, a little pepper, and some roux ; let 
boil ten minutes, then whisk in three eggs, and let come to the 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 51 

boil. Dish the cutlets on a napkin and garnish with parsley, 
and serve the sauce in a tureen. 

SOLES A LA BONNE FEMME. 

Ingredients : Four soles, one onion, a little vinegar, a little 
parsley, a little thyme, half a pint of stock gravy, some season- 
ing, and a little roux. Chop one onion and a little parsley very 
fine, place them in a stewpan with half a pint of stock, some 
seasoning, a little finely-rubbed thyme, a gill of vinegar, and a 
little roux, and let boil five minutes. Cut each sole into three 
pieces, well wash and clean them in lukewarm salt and water, 
throw them into cold watei', wipe each piece dry with a clean 
cloth, then place them in a stewpan, pour the sauce over them, 
and let simmer thirty minutes, occasionally turning them with a 
fishslice. Send to table on a hot dish garnished with croutons 
of fried bread. 



FILLET OF BEEF A LA MOLDAVE. 

Ingredients: About five pounds fillet of beef, three onions, 
three carrots, a few allspice, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, 
one quart of stock broth, a small bunch of sweet herbs, four 
ounces rice, four ounces lean ham, one tin of preserved peas, 
and some mashed potatoes. Trim the fillet of beef into shape, 
place the trimmings in a stewpan with three carrots and three 
onions cut into slices, a few allspice, two bay -leaves, a blade of 
mace, a small bunch of sweet herbs, some seasoning, and one 
quart of stock ; lay in the beef, cover with buttered paper, place 
on the lid, let come to the boil on the fire, then place the stew- 
pan in a hot oven for two hours ; when cooked, strain off the 
gravy, take off the fat, and reduce to half a pint by boiling ; 
boil four ounces well-washed rice in boiling water until tender, 
drain it on a sieve, and keep hot ; make hot a tin of preserved 
peas, and cut four ounces lean ham into small squares ; have 
ready some mashed potatoes ; place a bed of mashed potatoes 
on a hot dish, and place the fillet of beef on the top ; put round 
it alternately, in little heaps, the rice, ham, and peas ; pour the 
boiling gravy over it, and serve very hot. 



52 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

BOILED CHICKENS, MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Ingredients : Two large or three small chickens, two onions, 
two blades of mace, one carrot, one bay-leaf, one pint of milk, a 
tin of preserved mushrooms, some seasoning and a little roux, 
some slices of lean ham. Place the chickens in boiling water, 
(enough to cover them,) add a blade of mace and one onion cut 
in slices, a bay-leaf, and some seasoning ; let boil thirty-five 
minutes ; into a stewpan put one pint of milk, a blade of maoe, 
one onion cut in slices, some seasoning, and a little roux ; let 
boil twenty minutes (if not thick enough, add a little more 
roux) strain through a sieve or metal strainer ; into the sauce 
put one tin of preserved mushrooms cut into slices ; when 
cooked, take out the chickens, drain them in a clean cloth, plac! 
on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them ; garnish with a few 
slices G? lean ham. 

SWEETBREADS AU GRATIN. 

Ingredients : Three heart sweetbreads generally suffice for a 
dish ; four ounces butter, one onion, one carrot, a blade of mace, 
a slice of bacon, a few allspice, one pint of good stock, some sea- 
soning, a little roux. a few breadcrumbs, and some mashed 
potatoes. Steep the sweetbreads in cold water for one hour, 
then place them in warm water, and blanch ten minutes ; trim 
them, and press them between two dishes, with a weight on 
them, until cold ; cut up one onion and one carrot into slice*, 

Elace them in a stewpan with a blade of mace, a slice of bacon, a 
jw allspice, some seasoning, one pint of stock ; lay in the sweet- 
breads, cover with buttered paper, bring to the boil in the stovw,. 
then place in the oven to braise for one hour ; mash some po- 
tatoes, place them on a hot dish, put the sweetbreads on the toiu, 
strain the gravy the sweetbreads were braised in, take off ths 
fat, thicken with a little roux, then pour a little of the sauc* 
over the sweetbreads ; cover them with breadcrumbs, then poww 
some more sauce over them, then more breadcrumbs ; give therm 
another coating, place a piece of butter on each sweetbread, an<? 
then place them in a hot oven for twenty minutes to brown 
serve on the same dish. 

CALVES' FEET A LA CINTRA. 

Ingredients : Three calves' feet, one quart of milk, one onion, 
one carrot, a bay-leaf, some seasoning, a little roux, four eggs, 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 53 

two lemons, half a pint of lentils, and one quart of stock. Cut 
the meat off the feet in long strips, place them in a stewpan 
with one onion and one carrot cut in slices, some seasoning, a 
bay-leaf, one pint of stock, a quart of milk, and let boil until 
tender ; cook half a pint of lentils in one pint of stock ; when 
the strips of calves' feet are cooked, strain off the gravy into a 
stewpan, add a little roux and the juice of two lemons ; let it 
boil, then sharply whisk in four eggs, and keep stirring until it 
boils ; place the strips of feet on a hot dish, pour the sauce over 
them, and lay the lentils round them ; garnish with croutons o 
fried bread. 

MUTTON CUTLETS, SARDINIAN SAUCE. 

Ingredients : About three pounds best end neck of mutton, 
two eggs, some breadcrumbs, four ounces butter, one pint of 
stock, one shalot, a little parsley, a tin of preserved mushrooms, 
eight Spanish olives cut in quarters, three ounces of lean harn, 
a little roux, a wineglassful of vinegar, and a little mushroom 
catsup. Saw off the chine and trim the mutton, then cut out 
the cutlets, flatten them with a cutlet-bat or chopper dipped in 
cold water, trim them into shape, dip them in two eggs beaten 
up with some seasoning, then in breadcrumbs ; melt a little 
butter, pour it into a frying-pan, lay in the cutlets, and place 
away until dinner-time. Chop one shalot and a little parsley 
very fine, place them in a stewpan with some seasoning and one 
ounce butter; let fry five minutes; pour in one pint of stock, 
add a little roux; let boil ten minutes, then add one tin of pre- 
served mushrooms left whole, eight Spanish olives cut in quar- 
ters, three ounces lean ham cut in small squares, the vinegar 
and mushroom catsup ; let simmer gently one hour. Ten min- 
utes before wanted, fry the cutlets a light brown, let them drain 
on a piece of paper before the fire, to absorb the butter ; place 
them in a circle overlapping one another on a bed of mashed 
potatoes on a hot dish, and pour the boiling sauce over them. 
Serve immediately. 

ROAST DUCKLINGS. 

Cover the breasts of two fine ducklings with buttered paper, 
bake them in a hot oven thirty-five minutes; when cooked, 
place them on a very hot dish, and pour over them some good 
gravy seasoned and colored with a little soy. 



& tf E\V AMERICAN liOME COOK BOOK. 

SALAD. 

Well wash and pick four lettuces, one endive, one punnet of 
small salad ; free them from water by swinging them in a cloth ; 
cut into moderate-sized pieces, place in a salad-bowl, and pour 
over the following sauce : Mix in a basin the yolks of two eggs, 
a little mustard, a little salt, a gill of olive oil, a gill of vinegar, 
and half a gill of cream; stir these ingredients well together, 
and pour over the salad ; ornament the top of the salad with 
beet-root, cucumber, and hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

Ingredients : One pound pipe macaroni, four ounces butter, 
some seasoning, half a pound grated cheese, (Parmesan and 
Cheddar,) a little grated nutmeg, one quart of milk, and a few 
breadcrumbs. Boil one pound macaroni in a quart of milk 
until tender, pour off the milk, and gently mix in the stewpan 
with the macaroni some seasoning, eight ounces grated cheese, 
and four ounces butter ; place in a deep dish or shallow pie- 
dish, grate a little nutmeg over it, and lightly cover the top 
with breadcrumbs ; place in a hot oven to brown, and serve im- 
mediately. 

PINE SOUFFLE' 

Ingredients : One pint of milk, four ounces butter, five ounces 
flour, five ounces powdered white sugar, five eggs, and a small 
tin of preserved pineapple. Into a stewpan put one pint of 
milk and four ounces butter ; allow it to boil, then stir in the 
flour, and mix into a smooth compact paste ; let the paste get 
nearly ccld, crush the pineapple with five ounces sugar in the 
mortar, then stir it in the paste, add the yolks of five eggs, and 
well mix them in with a wooden spoon ; whisk up the five 
whites to a firm snow, and stir lightly in the paste mixture ; 
turn in a well-buttered souffle'-basin, place a band of paper 
round it, and bake in a good oven one hour. When required 
for table, take off the paper band, put a folded napkin round it, 
and send to table immediately. 

ASPARAGUS WITH BROWNED BUTTER. 

Scrape the asparagus quite clean, wash it in a pan of cold 
water, tie it in bundles of about eighteen to twenty in each, 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 55 

keeping all the heads turned the same way ; cut the stalks even, 
leaving them about seven to eight inches in length ; put the 
asparagus in hot water, with a small handful of salt in it, to boil 
for about twenty-five minutes, and, when done, drain carefully 
upon a napkin, to avoid breaking off the heads ; dish on a 
square piece of toasted bread, and pour over the following: 
Place in a stewpan three ounces fresh butter, a little seasoning 
and grated nutmeg ; place on the stove, and let boil until it 
assumes a light golden brown ; (take care not to let it burn) 
then pour over the asparagus, and serve very hot. 

SAVORY POT. 

Take the pieces of cold meat and cut them to the size of dice, 
lay them in a pie-dish, and sprinkle over them a little pepper, 
salt, and two chopped onions ; add two cloves, a teaspoonful or 
two of dry sage, or a small bunch of sweet herbs. Thicken 
about a teacupful of thin stock with a little flour, and pour over, 
then cover all with potatoes cut in thick slices, and bake for an 
hour. The potatoes should be half boiled first. This is a very 
economical dish, and is as nice cold as hot. 

BEEF STEAK WITH MACARONI. 

One pound beef steak cut half an inch thick, well beaten with 
a rolling-pin ; one onion sliced and put into a frying-pan with 
one ounce of dripping, and fried a nice brown color ; take three 
ounces of macaroni and put into some boiling water and a little 
salt, and boil for ten minutes ; put a cup of hot water on a piece 
of crust of bread made very brown, and let it stand ten minutes, 
then pour the water on to the onion and keep hot until the 
meat is done ; now sprinkle the steak with pepper, salt and 
flour, and put in a frying-pan over a good fire ; in five minutes 
turn the meat and fry five minutes on the other side ; take it up, 
pour the onion into the pan and make quite hot ; add a spoon- 
ful of catsup and pour over the steak, and put the macaroni 
round. This is a most excellent dish. 

BRAISED STEAK A LA LOTTA. 

One pound of lean, tender beef steak fried lightly in a little drip- 
ping ; fry with it an onion, four ounces weight, cut small ; drain 
them from the fat and put into a baking-dish or jar, with half 



56 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

pint of water ; add a grated carrot, a small one ; pepper and salt 
and four cloves ; tablespoonful Yorkshire relish, same quantity 
of vinegar, a small lump of sugar ; stew slowly until tender, 
about one and a-half hours ; thicken with browned flour, or, if 
preferred, a tablespoonful of rice added as soon as the gravy 
begins to simmer ; a few drops of browning or a little browning 
salt improves it. 



BRAISED STEAK A LA CONEY ISLAND. 

Take one pound steak, fry in a little butter to a rich brown, 
then put it into a saucepan well covered with water, and add the 
following ingredients : One onion chopped rather fine ; two 
carrots, ditto ; two turnips, ditto ; one blade of mace, a touch of 
nutmeg, one clove, pepper and salt to taste ; simmer gently for 
two hours ; thicken with a tablespoonful of flour ; have ready a 
hot dish, on which strew a little chopped parsley ; pour over the 
steak and serve. 



BEEF STEAK, LONG BRANCH STYLE. 

Cut one pound steak off either rump or sirloin of beef, (you 
may leave it whole or divide into nice pieces,) dip in salad oil, 
and put aside for a few hours, until it is required ; then broil 
over a clear fire, and serve with sauce made as follows : Put a 
piece of butter, size of a walnut, in a saucepan, with some finely- 
chopped onion and parsley ; add a little lemon-juice, pepper and 
salt ; stir on the fire for five minutes, and serve very hot. 

While congratulating all my fair correspondents upon their 
attempts to carry oflf the prize, and regretting my inability to 
give many of them more substantial reward than praise, I beg 
leave to present to them my own recipe. 

STEAK A LA DUCHESSE. 

Trim the steak, making it into a fair oval or round. Cut oft' 
altogether not less than a quarter of a pound. Kun all that is 
cut off through a mincing-machine twice ; add to the mince an 
equal amount of breadcrumbs, an uncooked onion chopped very 
fine, and a small pinch of some fine herb most agreeable to the 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 57 

taste. I prefer sage, and some pepper and salt ; mix thoroughly, 
then put into a brazing-pan, with a small lump of butter, and 
let it brown well. If put on the fire about five minutes before 
the steak, and kept well stirred, both will be done together. 
Take one egg, a tablespoonful of salad oil, a tablespoonful of 
white wine or Taragon vinegar, a little mustard, or some grated 
horseradish, if it is to be had ; and beat up the whole well. 
Heat, but do not boil : this in a little saucepan. When the 
steak is broiled sufficiently, (it should not be overdone,) put into 
a hot dish, place the mince all round it, and if mashed potatoes 
are served, put them as an outer wall all round the mince. Just 
before serving, pour the sauce gently on to the centre of the 
steak. 



STEAK AUX LEGUMES. 

Take a pound of steak, not top fat, cut thick ; insert a sharp- 
pointed knife in the edge and divide in two, with the exception 
of a small space round the edge. The steak should now form a 
sort of bag. Care should be taken to keep the external opening 
as small as possible. Have ready two small onions cut in slices 
and fried a nice brown ; also a fried mushroom minced finely. 
Put the onions and mushroom, with a little salt and pepper, into 
the opening made, (taking care to preserve the original shape 
of the steak,) and grill over a clear fire for five or seven minutes, 
turning with the tongs, and being careful to catch the gravy. 
Take a carrot, cut it in slices of an inch long, and with a sharp 
knife cut each of these as if peeling them round and round in a 
continuous strip, so as to form a ribbon ; cut a turnip in tbe 
same way. Boil these carefully, and when the steak is suffi- 
ciently cooked, put it on a hot dish, pour over it the gr*vy, and 
garnijh with ribbons of carrot and turnip. 

SOUP A LA CONNAUGHT. 

Ingredients : Five pounds lean beef, three onions, three car- 
rots, one head of celery, a little parsley, a sprig of thyme, two 
blades of mace, a few allspice, some seasoning, a little soy, five 
quarts of water, tin of preserved peas, two ounces rice, and four 
ounces lean ham. Cut up the onions, carrots and celery into 
pieces, and lay them on the "bottom of a stewpan ; cut the beef 



68 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOO& 

into small pieces, and place on the top of the vegetables ; sprinkle 
some pepper and salt over it, and stand it on the stove to cook 
the meat for about one hour, then add five quarts of water, and 
let it boil ; take off the scum as it rises, and add half a pint of 
cold water, a little soy, a little parsley, a sprig of thyme, a few 
allspice, and two blades of mace, and let all simmer together for 
four hours ; strain the soup through a fine cloth, and take off 
any remaining fat with a piece of paper laid lightly on the soup. 
Cook two ounces rice in boiling water until tender, make a tin 
of peas hot by standing in boiling water, and cut four ounces 
lean cooked ham into very fine dice, and place in the tureen 
with the rice and peas ; pour the boiling soup over them, and 
serve immediately. 

POTATO SOUP A LA CREWE. 

Ingredients : Four pounds of potatoes, two quarts of milk, 
one onion, one head of celery, two blades of mace, one pound of 
veal, three ounces of butter, one lemon, one quart of water, a gill 
of cream, and some seasoning. Into a large stewpan put three 
ounces butter, one onion, and one head of celery cut into slices, 
one pound veal. Place the stewpan on the stove, and let cook 
gently for twenty minutes ; peel the potatoes, and cut them into 
thin slices, and place in the stewpan with the cooked vegetables 
and veal ; add one quart of water, the rind of one lemon, some 
seasoning, and two quarts of milk, and let it simmer gently two 
hours (occasionally stirring to prevent its burning) ; pass the 
soup through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and stand it 
in some boiling water to keep hot ; before sending to table, add 
a gill of cream, and season to taste ; send with the soup some 
small croutons of fried bread. 

FILLETS OF BRILL, POLISH SAUCE. 

Ingredients : Four fillets of brill, two lemons, one onion, one 
carrot, some seasoning, a handful of parsley, a stick of horse- 
radish, a little anchovy sauce, one ounce sugar, one pint of stock, 
and a little roux. Cut each fillet into three pieces, and lay 
them in a well-buttered baking-tin, sprinkle some seasoning 
over them, and squeeze the juice of two lemons over them; 
cover with a piece of buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven 
twenty minutes. Into a stewpan put a piece of butter about the 
size of a walnut, one onion, and one carrot cut into slices, and 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 59 

some seasoning ; place on the stove and lightly fry, then add a 
little anchovy sauce, one pint of stock, one ounce sugar, and a 
little roux ; boil all together for twenty minutes, then strain 
through a fine hair sieve ; to the sauce add a handful of parsley 
blanched and chopped very fine, and one horseradish scraped 
very fine ; let the sauce boil a few minutes ; dish the fillets in a 
circle overlapping one another, and pour the boiling sauce over 
them, and serve very hot. 

DRESSED SALMON, ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Ingredients: Two slices of middle cut of salmon, about one 
and a-half pounds to two pounds in weight each, three onions, 
two carrots, two blades of mace, a few allspice, two shalots, a tin 
of preserved mushrooms, one bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, some 
seasoning, a little parsley, one pint of stock, and a little roux. 
Cut up three onions, two carrots, (very thin,) and place them in 
a baking-dish ; add a few allspice, two blades of mace, and some 
seasoning ; then lay the slices of salmon on the top of the vege- 
tables, and cover with a piece of buttered paper, and bake in a 
hot oven thirty minutes. Into a stewpan put one pint of stock, 
a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a little piece of carrot, an onion, 
and a little roux ; boil together twenty minutes, and strain 
through a fine hair-sieve. Chop very finely two shalots, and 
put them into a stewpan with two ounces butter, and let them 
simmer a few minutes ; then add a tin of preserved mushrooms 
chopped fine, and a little finely-chopped parsley ; let all simmer 
a few minutes, then pour in the sauce, add seasoning to taste, 
and a little soy to color it brown ; lift the slices of salmon very 
carefully on to a hot dish, take care not to allow any of the vege- 
tables to remain on them, and pour the boiling sauce over 
them ; then squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve 
immediately. 

BOILED CHICKENS, BECHEMEL SAUCE. 

Ingredients: Two chickens, one pint of milk, one onion, one 
carrot, a stick of celery, a blade of mace, some seasoning, a little 
roux, and a gill of cream. Have a stewpan large enough to 
hold the chickens, put in half an onion, half a carrot, a little 
piece of celery, a pinch of sugar, the same of salt, and then lay 
in the chickens ; prick them all over the breast with a needle, 
and cover them with boiling water, and boil steadily for thirty- 



60 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

five minutes. Into a stewpan put one pint of milk, a piece of 
onion, a piece of carrot, a piece of celery, a blade of mace, some 
seasoning, and a little roux, enongh to thicken it; boil twenty 
minutes, and strain through a fine hair sieve ; add a gill of 
cream, and bring to the boil ; place the fowls in a very hot dish, 
take out the skewers, and wipe away any moisture with a clean 
napkin ; then pour a little sauce over them, and garnish with 
some slices of lemon and green parsley ; serve the rest of the 
sauce in a boat. 

BRAISED HAM A LA CINTRA. 

Ingredients : A Westphalia or York ham, about ten pounds 
in weight, (if chosen smaller, they are drier, and eat rough,) 
three onions, three carrots, one head of celery, two bay-leaves, a 
handful of parsley, a small buncli of sweet herbs, some season- 
ing, one pound rice, four ounces butter, a little tomato sauce, 
some breadcrumbs, and a tin of preserved green peas. Soak the 
ham for twelve hours, then scrape it clean, and trim it ; place 
it in a braising-pan, with the onions, carrots and celery cut into 
small pieces ; add two bay-leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs, some 
pepper, and a handful of parsley ; cover the ham with cold 
water, and let it come to the boil ; then, if possible, put the pot 
in the oven and braise five hours. Chop up one onion and a 
piece of celery very finely, place it in a stewpan with four 
ounces butter, and let simmer fifteen minutes ; then add to it 
one pint of the liquor from the ham-braise, free from fat, one 
pint of water, and one pound rice well washed and picked, and 
let simmer until the rice is tender ; then add a small bottle of 
tomato sauce and a tin of preserved green peas ; mix all gently 
together and set on the stove in not too hot a place. Take the 
ham out of the braise, then trim off the rind and rough fat ; 
cover it with brown breadcrumbs, put a frill on the knuckle, 
and place the ham on a very hot dish, and place the rice garni- 
ture round it, and serve very hot. 

MUTTON CUTLETS A LA GOD1VEAN. 

Ingredients : Best end neck of mutton, one onion, one carrot, 
a little celery, one quart of stock, some seasoning, one tin of 
preserved mushrooms, four eggs, half a pint of milk, four ounces 
flour, four ounces lean ham. Trim the mutton and cut out the 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 61 

cutlets, (twelve in number,) cut up the onion, carrot and celery 
into thin slices, and place them in a stewpan ; lay in the cutlets 
in a circle on the top of the vegetables ; add one quart of stock 
and some seasoning, and let simmer forty minutes ; then take 
the cutlets and lay them on some clean white paper and place 
between two tins, with a weight on the top to press them ; when 
quite cold, trim them into shape and place in the larder until 
ten minutes before wanted. Reduce the gravy that the cutlets 
were cooked in to one-half by boiling, take off the fat, and add 
one tin of preserved mushrooms and four ounces cooked lean 
ham cut into small squares, and let simmer together twenty 
minutes. Just before dinner-time, mix four ounces flour, a little 
milk and the yolks of four eggs well together ; add some season- 
ing ; well whisk four whites of eggs into a firm snow, and stir 
lightly in the batter; dip the cutlets in the batter and drop 
them into a stewpan of boiling lard or dripping, and 'fry them a 
light golden brown ; when fried, drain them on some clean 
paper to absorb the fat ; place a little bed of mashed potatoes in 
a hot entre'e-dish, and dish the cutlets in a circle, overlapping 
one another on it ; pour the sauce in the centre, and serve **ery 
hot. 

BLANQUETTE OF VEAL A LA REFORM. 

In fe /edients : Veal, mushrooms, gherkins, one onion, one 
carrot, one head of celery, a little parsley, some seasoning, one 
quart of stock, a little roux, two eggs, three ounces butter, and 
half a pound of rice. Take a piece of cold roast veal and cut it 
into scollops about an inch and a half long and a quarter inch 
thick ; sprinkle them with seasoning, and lay them in a stewpan 
with a tin of preserved mushrooms and eight gherkins cut into 
long strips. _ Cut one onion, one carrot, one head of celery into 
small pieces, place them into a stewpan with one quart of stock, 
a little parsley, and some seasoning, and simmer for one hour ; 
then add a little roux, and strain through a fine metal strainer ; 
put into a stewpan three ounces butter and two eggs, and whisk 
in the boiling sauce; let come to the boil, and pour over the 
scollops, and stand it in not too hot a place on the stove. Well 
pick and wash half a pound of rice, throw it into boiling water 
with a pinch of salt, and boil until tender ; then strain it in a 
hair sieve until free from moisture, and while still hot fill a but- 
tered mould having a large hole in the centre, turn the rice out 
on a hot dish, and fill the centre with the scollops, and serve 
very hot. 



62 NEW AMEKICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

BEEF OLIVES, SHERRY SAUCE. 

Ingredients : Two pounds rump steak, half a pound sausages, 
a little parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion, one carrot, a 
few allspice, a bay-leaf, a little celery, some seasoning, one quart 
of stock, a little roux, one egg, one tin of preserved mushrooms, 
and some mashed potatoes. Cut the steak in twelve thin slices, 
and beat them very thin with a cutlet-bat dipped in water, and 
spread them with a farce made as follows : Mix together half a 
pound sausages, one egg, a handful of parsley chopped very fine, 
and a little finely-rubbed thyme and some seasoning ; then roll 
them up and tie a piece of string round them, and place them in 
a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them a light brown aft 
over ; when fried, place them in a stewpan with a small bunch 
of sweet herbs, one onion, one carrot, a little celery cut into 
pieces, one bay-leaf, a few allspice, and a quart of stock ; let 
simmer one hour, strain off the gravy and thicken it with a little 
roux ; add a little soy, and strain through a fine metal strainer ; 
add a tin of preserved mushrooms to the sauce, and bring to the 
boil ; take off the scum as it rises. Trim the olives and take off 
the string, and place them in a circle in a bed of mashed pota- 
toes, and pour the boiling sauce over them, and serve imme- 
diately. 

GUINEA FOWL. 

Ingredients: Two guinea fowls, a piece of fat bacon, one 
onion, half a pint of milk, some seasoning, a few breadcrumbs, a 
pint of good stock, and two bunches of watercresses. Lard the 
breasts of two guinea fowls, and roast them before a good fire 
for forty minutes, well basting them with butter or dripping ; 
make bread-sauce as follows : Boil half a pint of milk, put in one 
small onion stuck with cloves, some seasoning, and a handful of 
breadcrumbs, and let boil gently ten minutes; take out the 
onion, and the sauce is ready ; dish the fowls in a hot dish, pour 
over them some boiling gravy, and place round them two 
bunches of watercvesses, and serve the bread-sauce in a boat. 

PLOVERS. 

Ingredients : Five plovers, some gravy, five pieces of toast, a 
piece of fat bacon. Cover the breasts of the plovers with thin 
slices of fat bacon, and roast for twenty minutes before a sharp, 
dear fire, occasionally basting with some dripping ; place some 



tf EW AMERICAN SOME COOK BOOK. 63 

pieces of toast under them to catch the trail whilst roasting ; put 
the plovers on a hot dish, take out the skewers and pieces of fat 
from off them, and pour some melted butter over them, and 
place the pieces of trailed toast round them ; serve some boiling 
gravy in a sauce-tureen. 

CHEESE FONOU. 

Ingredients : One pint of milk, five ounces butter, some sea- 
soning, five ounces flour, six ounces Parmesan cheese, six eggs. 
Into a stewpan put one pint of milk and five ounces butter, and 
some seasoning, and let it boil one minute ; then add five ounces 
good flour, and stir on the fire until the paste leaves the stewpan 
quite free ; then stir in the yolks of six eggs and six ounces 
grated Parmesan cheese, and mix well together ; whisk up the 
six whites to a strong snow, and mix lightly in the batter ; place 
in a fondu basin, place a band of paper round it, and bake in a 
hot oven fifty minutes ; serve the fondu on a napkin. 

CHESTERFIELD PUDDING. 

Ingredients : Four ounces butter, six ounces sugar, six eggs, 
five ounces breadcrumbs, four ounces flour, three ounces sul- 
tanas, one ounce dried cherries, and two ounces fine-chopped 
lemon-peel, one glass of brandy, one glass of port wine, the rind 
of one lemon, and a little essence of almonds. Slightly warm 
the butter in a basin, and with a wooden spoon beat to a cream ; 
then beat in four ounces powdered white sugar, and add one egg 
at a time, until all six are worked in ; then stir in the flour, 
breadcrumbs and fruit; mix lightly all together, and put the mix- 
ture in a buttered mould dusted with flour, and steam two hours ; 
when cooked, turn the mould into a hot dish, and pour over it 
the following mixture : Melt two ounces sugar in a tablespoon- 
ful of water, grate in the rind of one lemon, and add one glass 
of brandy and the same of port wine. Serve the pudding very 
hot. 

MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN. 

Ingredients : Mushrooms, parsley, ham, butter, gravy, bread 
crumbs, seasoning, thyme, and four eggs. Cut the stalks, and 
trim the edges of the mushrooms, (about two punnets are enough 
for a good dish,) and fill them with the following mixture : 
Chop up four ounces lean ham and a handful of parsley very 



64 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

fine ; put them in a stewpan with one ounce butter and a pinch 
of flour, some seasoning, and a little finely-rubbed thyme, and 
place on the fire and make thoroughly hot ; then stir in four 
eggs until the mixture forms a thick custard. When the mush- 
rooms are filled, place them in a shallow stewpan with some 
butter and a little gravy, cover with breadcrumbs, and place in 
a hot oven for fifteen minutes to gratinate ; when cooked, dish 
them up in a heap in the centre of a hot dish, and pour some 
boiling well-seasoned gravy round them. 

DUCHESSE LOAVES WITH APPLE JELLY. 

Ingredients : Half a pint of milk, four ounces butter, two 
ounces sugar, five ounces flour, four eggs, and a little rough 
sugar candy. Put the milk, sugar and butter into a stewpan on 
the fire, and as soon as these begin to boil, stir in five ounces 
flour ; when thoroughly mixed, add three eggs ; incorporate 
these with the paste. This paste should now be laid out with a 
dessert spoon in heaps about the size of a small egg ; egg them 
over with a brush, and strew a little coarsely-crushed sugar- 
candy over them, and bake them in a moderate oven a very 
light color ; when baked, make an incision in the side with a 
sharp knife, and put in them a little apple jelly. Send to table 
on a napkin. 

CHERRY JELLY. 

Ingredients : Two ounces Nelson's opaque gelatine, four 
lemons, half a pound sugar, one pint and a half of water, the 
whites of three eggs, half a glass of noyeau, one drop of essence 
of almonds, and a little cochineal. Soak the gelatine in the 
water for one hour, then add the juice of four lemons, the sugar, 
and the whites of three eggs whisked in a little cold water ; stir 
all together gently over the fire until boiling ; let it settle a few 
minutes, then pass through a flannel jelly-bag, pouring it back 
a few times, until quite clear ; then add half a glass of noyeau, 
one drop of essence of almonds, and color a light red with cochi- 
neal. Pour into a mould and let set ; when required, dip the 
mould in warm water for a few seconds, and wipe with a cloth 
and turn on to a glass or silver dish. 

EGYPTIAN CREAM. 

Ingredients : Half a pint of cream, one lemon, half a glass 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 65 

of noyeau, one ounce isinglass, a little cochineal, half a pint of 
clear jelly, the same as the foregoing recipe. Pour the clear 
jelly into a plain mould and let it set ; when set, turn it out on 
to a'dish, and keep very cold. Whisk up half a pint of cream 
very stiff, then divide it uito two parts, (one flavor lemon, the 
other noyeau,) colored with cochineal ; dissolve one ounce isin- 
glass in a little hot water, and add half of it to the lemon cream ; 
well whisk in with a little finely -powdered sugar, and pour in 
the mould the jelly was turned out of; when set, turn it out on 
to a dish, then sweeten the noyeau cream, add the dissolved 
isinglass, and set in the mould the lemon was turned out of; 
then cut each layer into six pieces, and work them alternately 
back into the mould ; pour in a little liquid jelly and let set ; 
turn out the same as before described. 

CROQUETTES OF POTATOES. 

Take one quart of finely-mashed potatoes, place in a basin, 
season with pepper and salt and a teaspoonful of parsley chopped 
very fine, one egg, one ounce of liquid butter. Beat this mix- 
ture well. Flour a board slightly, divide the mixture into 
small portions, shape them like apples and pears. Any lady 
having artistic taste can model these beautifully out of the po- 
tato paste. Egg and breadcrumb the croquettes, place in a 
frying-basket and fry for four minutes ; drain, and place a clove 
in the top of each apple and pear, and a small stalk of parsley 
in the other end of the fruit. This is a very pretty dish. 

RISSOLES 

Are portions of highly-seasoned cooked meat, fish, or game, 
enclosed in pastry, and fried. Very good rissoles can be made 
by using a small quantity of tinned meat. Of course the rissoles 
will be nicer if cold roast meat, roast fowl or game is used. 
Any sort of cold meat will do. Season the meat nicely, and, if 
it is not very juicy, add a small quantity of stock to it. For one 
dozen rissoles, take one, pound cooked meat nicely minced and 
seasoned, tablespoonful of stock ; mix well ; form the mixture 
into small corks. Prepare a paste of half a pound of flour, four 
ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, half a teaspoonful of baking- 
powder, and one gill of water. Place flour in a basin, rub the 
butter into the flour, add salt, baking-powder and water; mix 
well ; turn paste out on the board and roll out thinly, say half 
an inch in thickness ; cut into small rounds with a cutter or a 

E 



66 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

tumbler ; lay a little cork of the meat on the round of paste. 
Brush the edges of the paste, fold the paste over so as to form a 
half-moon shape, press the edges well together, place the rissoles 
in a plate with beaten egg, brush well all over, then roll them 
in breadcrumbs and fry in fat about three hundred and seventy- 
five degrees, so as to get the pastry nicely raised. The pastry 
becomes light, and the rissoles float on the surface of the fat 
after the first minute, so they must be moved about with a slice, 
so as to get them evenly browned. Rissoles will require about 
six minutes to fry. 

Croquettes of rice, fritters, and potato chips, can be fried easily 
by this process. The secret of success of frying is to have 
plenty of fat, more than enough to cover the things to be fried, 
to see that the fat is hot, and that articles intended to be fried 
are well egged and breadcrumbed. Potato chips do not require 
egg and breadcrumbs ; they may be rolled in a small quantity 
of flour before they are fried, and ought to be well sprinkled 
with salt after they are fried and drained. Many sorts of cheap 
fish can be fried after they have been well rolled in flour or 
oatmeal. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Dissolve one ounce Nelson's opaque gelatine in one pint of 
cold water for two hours, then add eight ounces white sugar, the 
juice of one lemon, and half a pint of boiling water ; place on 
the fire until the gelatine is all melted, add the juice of five 
oranges and one drop of cochineal, strain through a piece of 
muslin and pour into a mould, and put into a cool place to set. 
When wanted, dip the mould into warm water for a few seconds, 
wipe dry with a clean cloth, and turn gently into a silver or 
glass dish. Ornament with a few natural flowers, if procurable. 

SAVARIN OF GREENGAGES WITH VVHIPT CREAM. 

Take half a pint of milk, make it warm, add four ounces 
sugar, and one-half ounce German yeast, and two ounces flour ; 
well mix together, and stand in a warm place to rise ; then put 
one pound flour on the paste-board, rub in one-half pound butter, 
bring into a heap in the centre of the board, and with the hand 
scoop a hole in the centre ; then place in the hollow the yolks 
of five eggs, and a glass of noyeau and the ferment; mix into a 
smooth compact dough, add four ounces picked sultanas, a few 
dried cherries, and a little chopped mixed peel ; wel 1 butter a 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 67 

large mould having a hollow in the centre, three parts fill the 
mould with the dough, and then stand it in a warm place to 
prove ; when it has risen near the top of the mould, place a band 
of buttered paper round it, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about forty minutes, more or less, according to the heat of the 
oven ; when cooked, turn out of the mould, and let get partly 
cold ; fill the hollow with a tin of greengages preserved in syrup, 
and on the top put a little whipt cream, ancl just before sending 
to table, throw a few nonpareils on the top of the cream. 

RUSSIAN SALAD. 

Take about eight medium-sized potatoes, nicely boiled and 
floury ; peel, and while hot, with a silver fork break them into 
little pieces about the size of small nuts. Boil hard about five 
or six eggs, chop the yolks and whites separately ; take about 
half a tumbler of best Lucca oil, a little vinegar, pepper, salt, 
capers ; a couple of chopped anchovies, if for a fish salad, or the 
liver of a fowl bruised in the sauce, if for fowl, is a great im- 
provement ; if the latter, chop the meat into small pieces ; or, 
if fish, shred it into little bits. Take half the eggs and mix 
with the sauce, place it in the dish you intend serving it in ; 
smooth the surface, cover it lightly with the remainder of the 
chopped eggs, and garnish with pickles and beet-root. 

ALMA PUDDING. 

Beat one-quarter pound butter to a thick cream, strew in by 
degrees one-half pound sugar, and beat these well together; 
then dredge one-half pound flour in gradually, add one-quarter 
pound currants, and then beat up four eggs and add them to the 
mixture ; when all the ingredients are well stirred and mixed, 
pour into a buttered mould and tie down with a cloth ; put the 
pudding into a saucepan with boiling water, and let it boil for 
four hours. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Chop one-half pound figs very finely, mix them with one- 
quarter pound coarse sugar, a tablespoonful of treacle, four table- 
spoonfuls of milk, one-half pound flour, one-quarter pound suet, 
in egg, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put the pudding into a 
buttered mould and boil five hours. 



68 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

SCRAP PUDDING. 

Put scraps of bread (crust and crumb) into a bowl, with suffi- 
cient milk to cover them well. Cover wiih a plate, and put into 
the oven to soak for about half an hour. Take it out and ma^h 
the bread with a fork till it is a pulp; then add a handful of 
raisins and as many currants, six ounces brown sugar, half a 
pint of milk, some candied lemon-peel, and one egg. Stir it up 
well, grease a pudding-dish, and pour the pudding in. Grate 
over a little nutmeg, put it into a moderate oven, and let it bake 
for an hour and a-half. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

Stir to a cream one pound sugar, three-quarters pound butter, 
add the grated rind and juice of a lemon ; separate the whites 
and yolks of nine eggs and beat each to a froth; stir into the 
cake, and add one pound sifted flour ; stir fifteen minutes, and 
just before putting into cake-pans, which must be lined with 
buttered paper, add one pound raisins ; spice to taste, arid bake 
one hour. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut up a large bunch of celery into small pieces ; use only 
that which is blanched. Put it into a pint of water and boil 
until it is tender; then add a teaspoonful of flour and a lump 
of butter the size of an egg, mixed well together ; season with 
salt and pepper, and stir constantly until taken from the tire. It 
is very nice with boiled poultry. 

MAIDS OF HONOR. 

Beat one pound powdered loaf sugar with the yolks of twelve 
eggs in a mortar, one ounce blanched sweet almonds, and twelve 
bitter, and four tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water ; the 
almonds must be mixed in just before the patty-pans are filled. 
Line your patty-pans with good puff-paste, put in the mixture, 
and bake in a moderately-heated oven. 



TO MAKE A TRIFLE. 

The whip to put over the trifle should be made the day before 
it is required, as keeping it for a day improves the flavor, and 
makes it more solid. Put into a large bowl three ounces 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 69 

pounded loaf sugar, the whites of two eggs, one pint of cream, 
and a small glass of sherry or raisin wine. Whisk these ingre- 
dients well in a cool place, and take off the froth with a skim- 
mer as fast as it rises, and put it on a sieve to drain ; continue 
the whisking until there is sufficient of the whip, which must be 
put away in a cool place to drain. For the trifle, place six 
small spongecakes, twelve macaroons, and two dozen ratafias at 
the bottom of the trifle-dish ; pour over them half a pint of 
sherry or sweet wine, mixed with six tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
or, if this is considered too much, a little less brandy and more 
wine ; the cakes should be well soaked. Over the cakes put the 
grated rind of a lemon, about two or three ounces sweet almonds 
blanched and cut into strips, and a layer of raspberry or straw- 
berry jam ; make a good custard and pour over the cakes ; then 
heap the whip lightly over the top as high as possible, and 
garnish with strips of bright currant jelly, crystallized sweetmeats 
or flowers. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Allow the same weight of lump sugar as of oranges ; cut the 
oranges in half and take out the inside, removing the pips and 
skin that separates the quills, leaving only the juice and pulp. 
Wash the inside skin in a little water, and put it to your pulp ; 
the rinds must be boiled about four hours in plenty of water, 
changing it once, or it will be too bitter; when sufficiently 
boiled, cut in small pieces. Next boil the pulp, juice and sugar 
together for half an hour, then put in the pieces of rind, and 
boil for four or five minutes. 



SOUP A LA ROYALE. 

Cut up four onions, two carrots and one head of celery into 
small pieces, and lay them in the bottom of a large stewpan ; 
then lay in five pounds lean beef cut into small pieces, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, and place the stewpan on a slow fire and 
cook for one hour, (taking care it does not burn) ; then add four 
quarts of cold water, let it boil, take off the scum and fat, and 
add one bay-leaf, a few allspice and a bunch of herbs, a little 
soy and a very little cayenne pepper, and let simmer four hours ; 
strain through a cloth, and take off the Tat with a piece of clean 
paper laid lightly on the soup ; take the yolks of six eggs, add 
to them a tablespoonful of milk, some pepper and salt, welj 



70 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

whisk all together, and pour into a buttered mould and steam 
fifteen minutes ; when done, cut the custard into small diamond- 
shaped pieces and place in the tureen, pour the boiling soup 
over them and serve. 

BISQUE OF RABBIT. 

Cut up two rabbits, place them in a stewpan with one onion, 
one bay-leaf, a blade of mace, a small piece of celery, some sea- 
soning, and two quarts of stock-broth ; boil together until the 
rabbits are tender, take them out of the gravy, save the best 
pieces of meat for sending in the soup to table, pound the bones 
in a mortar with a little grated nutmeg, then put them back in 
the gravy ; add one quart of milk and a little roux, and boil 
twenty minutes ; strain through a fine hair sieve, add the pieces 
of meat cut into small squares, and a little chopped parsley, and 
the juice of one lemon ; bring to the boil, take off the scum, and 
the soup is ready for serving. 

EELS A LA TARTARE. 

Procure three pounds eels, place them in a hot oven for ten 
minutes, remove the skins, and cut them into pieces about two 
inches long, and lay them in a little well-seasoned stock, and boil 
gently twenty minutes ; put into a stewpan one pint of milk, 
two ounces butter, and a little roux ; boil together five minutes, 
add some seasoning, the juice of one lemon, a gill of white vine- 
gar, and four eggs ; well whisk together until boiling, then add 
one ounce capers chopped fine, and a little chopped parsley ; 
lift the pieces of eels gently out of the stewpan, and place in a 
heap in the centre of a hot dish and pour the sauce over. Gar- 
nish with some croutons of fried bread, and serve. 

WHITINGS AU GRATIN. 

Procure five whitings, place them in a baking-dish with a gill 
of good gravy, sprinkle over them a little chopped shalot and 
parsley, some seasoning, and a little anchovy sauce ; add the 
juice of two lemons and half a gill of cream ; cover with but- 
tered paper, and bake in a hot oven twenty minutes ; then take 
off the paper and sprirfkle over the fish a few breadcrumbs, and 
set in the oven to brown. S#rve in the dish they are baked in, 
with a napkin round it, and in a boat send a sauce made as fol- 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 71 

lows : Half a pint of good stock, some seasoning, a little anchovy 
sauce, and a glass of port, boiled together ; thicken with a little 
roux, and strain through a fine hair sieve. 

CAPON A LA REINE. 

Take one large or two small capons, rub them over with half 
a lemon, and then wrap them in wljite paper, and place them in 
a stewpan, with enough good stock to cover them ; add one 
onion, a head of celery, and a small carrot cut into pieces, a 
blade of mace, and a little grated nutmeg, and let simmer for 
one hour and a quarter just before dinner-time ; take out the 
capons and let them drain upon a napkin. Boil some very 
small turnips in water, with a pinch of sugar and the same of 
salt, and one ounce butter, until tender ; boil some Brussels 
sprouts very green. Take some of the gravy the capon was 
cooked in, thicken it with a little roux, and add a gill of cream 
to it ; strain it through a fine hair sieve ; place the capon on a 
hot dish, and put round it in little heaps, alternately, the tur- 
nips and Brussels sprouts ; pour the boiling sauce over it, and 
serve immediately. 

CALPS HEAD A LA D'ORLEANS. 

Take the scalp off the head and well wash it, wipe it dry with 
a cloth, and co'ver it with a farce made as follows : Two pounds 
sausage-meat, a handful of breadcrumbs, a little chopped parsley, 
a little grated nutmeg, some seasoning, and three eggs mixed 
together; spread this evenly over the head, and roll up tightly 
and tie in a cloth ; place it in a stewpan with two onions, one 
carrot, and one head of celery, a few allspice, and some season- 
ing, and two quarts of stock-broth, and boil gently three hours. 
Chop up ten gherkins very fine, and place them in a stewpan 
with &;>me seasoning and two eggs, and stir them well together 
over a good fire for ten minutes. When the calf's head is 
cooked, carefully turn out of the cloth and spread the gherkin- 
mixtuie over the top with the blade of a knife. Take some of 
the gravy the head was cooked in, and thicken it with a little 
roux ; add a little soy and two glasses of sherry ; bring to the 
boil, and strain through a fine hair sieve. Pare ten carrots and 
five turnips, and cut them into small square pieces and boil them 
separately in salt and water, with a pinch of sugar added, until 
tender ; strain them and keep very hot. Place the head care- 



72 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK 

fully, with a large fish-slice, on a hot dish, and pour the boiling 
sauce over it, and lay in little heaps alternately the carrots and 
turnips round it ; sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the 
turnips, and serve immediately. 

SUPREME OF CHICKEN A LA MARECHALE. 

Cut up two chickens into nice joints, throw them into luke- 
warm water with a pinch of salt added, and let them blanch for 
ten minutes, then drain them dry, dip them in flour, and fry a 
light brown in a little butter. Take one quart of milk and the 
same of stock, place in a stewpan with one onion, one carrot, a 
few allspice, a blade of mace, some seasoning, and a little grated 
nutmeg ; boil together forty minutes, thicken with a little roux, 
and strain through a fine hair sieve ; place the joints of chicken 
in the sauce, add a tin of preserved mushrooms and a glass of 
sherry, simmer together for forty minutes ; place in a stewpan a 
tin of preserved green peas, a little seasoning, one ounce butter, 
and a little grated nutmeg, make a border round each entre- 
dish with some mashed potatoes, place the supreme in the centre, 
and place the peas round the potato border, and then the entree 
is ready. 

GRENADINES OF VEAL A LA REGENCE. 

Take about two pounds veal cutlet, cut it into twelve fillets, 
beat them flat with a cutlet-bat dipped in cold water, trim them 
into shape, a'nd lard them with fat bacon ; cut up one onion and 
one carrot into a flat stewpan, add a few blades of mace and a 
few allspice, then cover with some thin slices of fat bacon, and 
lay in the grenadines on the t&p of all; grate a little nutmeg 
over them, add some seasoning and sufficient stock-broth to 
reach up to the larding, and simmer gently for one hour. Well 
wash eight ounces Carolina rice, and throw into boiling water 
and let boil ten minutes, drain it dry, and then place it in a 
stewpan with one pint of good stock and some seasoning, and a 
spoonful of tomato sauce, and simmer gently for twenty minutes ; 
add four drops of cochineal, and thoroughly incorporate with 
the rice. Boil one pound Brussels sprouts in salt and water 
until tender, and drain very dry. Pour the gravy from the 
grenadines into a stewpan, and reduce to one-half by boiling. 
Equally divide the rice into two hot entree-dishes, and place the 



NEW AMEKICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 73 

grenadines in a circle overlapping one another, and place half 
the Brussels sprouts in each centre ; pour the boiling sauce over 
them and serve immediately. 

ROAST PTARMIGAN AND HERB SAUCE. 

* Procure two fine ptarmigan, wrap them in buttered paper, and 
place them in a baking-tin with one pint of good gravy ; bake 
them in a hot oven twenty-five minutes ; take off the buttered 
paper a few minutes before wanted, to allow the breasts to 
brown. Cut up of each a handful of parsley and small onions 
very fine, place them in a stewpan with two ounces butter, some 
seasoning, and a little grated nutmeg, and fry gently for five 
minutes, occasionally stirring with a wooden spoon ; then add 
one pint of good stock, and simmer twenty minutes. Serve the 
ptarmigan on a very hot dish, with the gravy from the tin they 
were roasted in, and send the herb sauce in a boat with them. 

WILD DUCK AND RED CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 

Procure two fat wild ducks, place them in a baking-tin, 
sprinkle the breasts with a little flour and seasoning, cover with 
a piece of buttered paper, and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven, 
removing the paper a few minutes before wanted, to allow the 
breasts to brown. Place in a stewpan one pint of stock-broth, 
one bay-leaf, a few allspice, a sprig of thyme, a small pot of red 
currant jelly, a little roux, and some seasoning ; boil all together 
ten minutes, strain through a fine hair sieve, add a little soy 
and a glass of port wine. Dish the ducks on a hot dish, and 
pour some of the boiling sauce over them, and send the rest in a 
boat, and one lemon cut into small pieces on a plate to be 
handed round with the duck. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Mix together on a pasteboard one-half pound flour, five ounces 
butter, five ounces grated Parmesan cheese, two eggs, a pinch 
of mustard, and some seasoning into a stiff paste ; sprinkle the 
pasteboard with flour, and roll out the paste to the thickness of 
the sixth of an inch ; then cut it into strips five inches long and 
a quarter of an inch wide, lay these on a clean baking-tin and 
bake a light golden brown in a hot oven. Dish the straws on a 
napkin, in the form of a pyramid. 



74 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Well butter a plain mould, place in the bottom a few dried 
cherries and a piece of green citron cut into strips, break into 
pieces eight penny spongecakes, and fill the mould with them ; 
then break into a basin six eggs, well whisk them, add five ounces 
powdered white sugar, the rind of two lemons grated, and one 
pint of milk ; well whisk together, and pour gently into the 
mould, twist a piece of buttered paper over the mould, place in 
a stewpan, and add sufficient water to reach half-way up the 
mould; let gently boil one hour, taking care to add a little 
water to make up the loss by boiling. Place in a stewpan six 
ounces white sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, and a little 
water ; boil together tell minutes, add half a glass of brandy, 
and the sauce is ready. When the pudding is required, run a 
thin knife gently round the mould, and turn gently into the 
dish. Pour the sauce over and serve 

BRAISED CELERY. 

Take six good heads of celery, trim to about six inches in 
length, parboil them in water with a little salt about ten min- 
utes, take them out and drain them in a cloth or hair sieve, 
then place in a stewpan with one pint of stock-broth, add a little 
grated nutmeg and some seasoning, and boil gently for one hour. 
When cooked, take out the heads with a slice, drain on a cloth, 
add a little roux to the gravy, and boil for a few minutes ; place 
the celery in a hot dish and strain the boiling sauce over it, 
garnish the sides with some small pieces of well-buttered, fresh- 
made toast, and serve very hot. 

BANANA CREAM. 

Procure five ripe bananas, take off the skins and pound the 
fruit in a mortar with five ounces white sugar to a pulp. Beat 
up half a pint of good cream to a stiff froth, add the pounded 
bananas and half a glass of brandy and the juice of one 
lemon ; mix well together, then add one-half ounce isinglass 
dissolved, a little boiling -water, gently whisk in and fill the 
mould, set in a cool place until wanted. When required, dip 
the mould in warm water for a few seconds, wipe with a cloth, 
and turn out into a glass or silver dish. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 75 

FRENCH PASTRY. 

Roll out a sheet of puff-paste, a quarter of an inch thick, cut 
into diamond, round and square-shaped pieces, gather the four 
corners of the squares into the middle, and stamp with a small 
round cutter ; stamp the diamonds and rounds with three very 
small round cutters placed side by side, lay all on a sheet of paper 
on a baking-tin, lightly dust with white powdered sugar, and bake 
in a hot oven about ten minutes, more or less, according to the 
heat ; when baked, take off the paper and fill the marked places 
with different-colored jams and jellies ; thus, in some, for variety, 
place greengage jam, yellow apple jelly, and red currant jelly ; 
in others, apricot jam, raspberry jam, and some preserved fruits. 
Dish the pastry on lace papers, in silver or glass dishes, in the 
form of a pyramid. 

MOCK VENISON. 

Bone and skin a loin of mutton ; stew the bones with two an- 
chovies, one or two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, some white 
pepper, mace, a crust of bread, and a carrot ; strain it off and 
put in a stewpan, with the fat side of the mutton downward ; 
then add half a pint of port wine, and let it stew till tender ; 
brown it in the dripping-pan, and serve it in the sauce. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Peel and core eight large juicy apples, and boil them till 
tender, in clear water. Take them out and pulp them smooth 
through a sieve; add one-quarter pound sifted sugar and the 
grated rind of two lemons. Put the mixture into a deep dish, 
about half filling it ; beat the yolks of four eggs light, and add 
half a teacupful of white sugar, and stir into a quart of sweet 
milk ; stir this over the fire until it is quite thick, and let it 
cool ; when cold, pour it over the apples. Whip the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth and pour over the top. 

TO MASK TURNIPS. 

After having been boiled very tender, and the water pressed 
thoroughly from them, put them into a saucepan, and stir con- 
stantly for some minutes over a gentle fire ; add a little cream, 
salt, fresh butter, and pepper ; continue to simmer and stir them 
for fir" xninutes locker, and then serve them. 



76 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

POTATO ROLLS. 

When mashed potato is left from the table, add one or two 
eggs, according to quantity, a little salt, pepper, butter and flour. 
Mix into small balls, and bake three-quarters of an hour on a 
buttered pan. These rolls make a cheap but nice breakfast 
relish. 

CHRISTMAS CAKE. 

One pound flour, one-half pound almonds, one pound sugar, 
three-quarters pound butter, six eggs, two teaspoon fuls of cream- 
tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, and half teacup of milk. Beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add eggs and milk, in which 
dissolve the soda, put the cream of tartar in flour, beat this all 
well, and then stir in the blanched almonds]; line a cake-tin 
with well-buttered paper. Bake in a steady but not too hot 
oven. 

BIRTHDAY CAKE. 

Half pound butter, half pound sifted sugar, four eggs, one 
pound flour, half pound dried currants, half pound raisins, two 
ounces candied orange-peel or citron, twelve almonds, a tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder, and a teaspoonful of mixed spice. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten, 
the flour, and the fruit picked and floured. When all are well 
mixed, stir in the baking-powder last. The almonds must be 
blanched and chopped, and the orange-peel or citron shredded 
fine. Mix very thoroughly ; pour into a well-buttered tin lined 
with buttered paper, and bake four hours in a moderate oven. 
The cake may be iced, if desired. 



LITTLE PLUM CAKES. 

Two pounds flour, half pound sugar, four eggs, half pound 
butter, six spoonfuls of cream, and half pound currants. Mix 
the butter and sugar to a cream, first washing the butter in rose- 
water ; add the eggs well beaten, then the cream a little warm, 
then the flour and currants, the latter well washed and dried ; 
mix well, and make into small cakes, or bake in very small 
oimd tin pans in a tolerably hot oven. Frost .them, and put a 
sugar ornament on each one. 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 77 

CITRON CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, one pound sugar, one pound butter, the rind and 
juice of a lemon, one pound flour, a grated nutmeg. Cut two 
pounds citron into small, thin pieces, rub them in flour, and, just 
before baking, add the citron to the cake-batter.; divide in two 
parts, and bake in a rather quick oven in well-buttered moulds. 

COCOANUT PUFFS. 

The whites of three eggs beaten very light, a teacupful of fine 
white sugar, a tablespoonful of corn-flour. When these ingre- 
dients are mixed, put the mixture into a custard saucepan or a 
jug, set in a pan of boiling water, and stir constantly for twenty 
minutes ; then take it off the stove and add one-quarter pound 
grated cocoanut. When well mixed, drop in teaspoonfuls on 
buttered paper. Bake in a very slow oven, as they must not 
brown at all. 

SUGAR PUFFS. 

Take the whites of four eggs and beat them to a strong froth, 
a id add as much very fine rolled and sifted sugar as will make 
it into a stiff paste; add a few caraway seeds, a little rosewateror 
lemon essence to flavor the mixture. Beat it well for one hour, 
and then sift sugar on a sheet of white paper, and drop the mix- 
ture on it the size of a sixpence. Bake them carefully in a slow 
oven, and they will be very white. 

LITTLE ALMOND CAKES. 

Four ounces sweet almonds and four or five bitter ones, three- 
quarters pound flour, one pound sugar powdered and sifted, six 
ounces butter, and the yolk of one egg. Pound the almonds, 
rub the butter into the flour, and then mix all well together. 
Bake in buttered tins. 

SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS A LA VILLEROI. 

Procure a pair of sweetbreads, Blanch them in lukewarm 
wator, changing the water two or tlfree times, then throw them 
into some stock, and boil thirty minutes. Take out the sweet- 
breads and let them get cold, then cut into slices, egg and bread- 
crumb them, and fry them in a little clarified butter a golden 



78 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

brown. Thicken the gravy they were cooked in with a little 
roux, add two glasses of sherry, a bunch of herbs, and let sim- 
mer twenty minutes ; then strain through a fine mesh metal 
strainer, add a tin of preserved mushrooms, boil some turnips 
quite tender, mash them, adding two boiled potatoes to stiffen 
them ; beat them well together, and place in the bottom of a hot 
entree dish ; place the scollops in a circle on the top, and with 
a spoon place the mushrooms in the centre, and pour the sauce 
round ; sprinkle the scollops lightly with finely-chopped parsley 
and grated Parmesan cheese mixed together, and serve. 

SALMIS OF SNIPES. 

Take six snipes, lightly roast them, cut them in halves, lay 
each half on a piece of toasted bread the same size, and keep 
very hot ; make a sauce as follows : One pint of stock, a few 
allspice, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, a piece of onion and 
celery, some seasoning boiled together ten minutes ; thicken 
with a little roux, add two glasses of sherry and a little soy, and 
strain through a fine hair sieve ; dish the halves of snipe on the 
toast in a circle overlapping one another, and pour the boiling 
sauce over them, and serve. 

TO ROAST THREE WIDGEON. 

Place them in a baking-tin covered with buttered paper, and 
bake for thirty minutes ; serve on a very hot dish with some 
gravy thickened with roux, and well seasoned and colored with 
a little soy and some port wine poured over them. 

TO ROAST THREE WOODCOCKS. 

Lay the woodcocks on rounds of toasted bread to catch the 
trail, cover with buttered paper, and bake twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven ; serve with the same gravy as the widgeon. 

CHEESE REMEQUINS. 

Boil half a pint of milk, add four ounces butter and some sea- 
soning ; when the butter is melted, add four ounces flour and 
stir over the fire until the paste leaves the sicles of the stewpan 
quite free ; let it get nearly cold, then stir in five eggs and five 
ounces grated Parmesan cheese and a pinch of sugar ; fill the 
paper cases with the mixture, and bake twenty minutes ; dish 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 79 

them on a napkin, and serve immediately they come out of the 
oven. 

ICE PUDDING A LA CINTRA. 

Boil six ounces well-washed rice in a quart of milk until quite 
tender, add a gill of cream, six ounces powdered white sugar, 
half a glass of noyeau, six eggs well whisked together over a 
slow fire until boiling ; stand the stewpan immediately in cold 
water, keep stirring until nearly cold. This custard must now 
be placed in a freezer used for making ices, and well worked 
with a spatula until thoroughly frozen ; fill a mould with the 
ice and bed it in rough ice and salt, and place away until 
wanted. While the above process is going on, pare and quarter 
eight good oranges, place them in a sugar-b.oiler with one pint 
of water and one and a-half pounds sugar ; allow the oranges to 
boil up in this gently for two minutes, then drain them on a 
sieve. Boil the syrup down to one-half of its original 
quantity, then add half a pound of apricot jam and a glass of 
noyeau, mix well together, and boil one minute ; then pour it 
over the oranges, and let get quite cold. When about to send 
the pudding to table, dip the mould in lukewarm water ; wipe 
with a clean cloth, turn the pudding out in a dish, and place the 
orange of compote round it, and serve. 

PUNCH JELLY. 

Di&eo\ve two ounces gelatine in one pint and a-half of water, 
add the Hiice of two lemons and four ounces sugar, stand on the 
stove an A let thoroughly melt ; then add two whites of eggs 
whisked up in a gill of water, bring to the boil, and let stand 
two minutes ; then pass through a jelly-bag, pouring back two 
or three times, until quite bright ; add to it, when clear, half a 
glass of rum, the same of brandy and sherry, pour in the mould 
and let set. When wanted, dip the mould in warm water for 
twenty seconds, wipe with a cloth, and turn out in a silver or 
glass dish ; garnish with some natural flowers. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Well whisk up half a pint of good cream, add to it three 
ounces powdered white sugar and the juice of half a lemon, mix 
three tablespoonfuls of strawberry jam in a little cold water, 
and strain it through a fine hair sieve. 



80 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

COMPOTE OF FRENCH PLUMS. 

Boil four ounces rice in a pint of milk until tender, add four 
ounces sugar and Haifa gill of cream, and one-half ounce isin- 
glaxs dissolved in a little hot milk, pour into a border mould 
and let set; boil one pound sugar in a pint of water for five 
minutes, throw in one pound French prunes, and let boil ten 
minutes, color the syrup with a few drops of cochineal, and set 
away to get cold ; dip the border in warmwater, and turn out ; 
put the stewed plums in the centre and the syrup round, then it 
is ready for table. 

COMPOTE OF PEARS. 

Pare and core eight cooking-pears, place them in a stewpan 
with half a pint of water and two pounds sugar, four cloves, 
and a small piece of cinamon and a piece of lemon-peel, boil 
until the pears are tender, then strain the syrup, color red with 
cochineal and lay in the pears ; let get cold ; dish up in a glass 
dish with a little plain whipped cream on the top. 

CLEAR MACARONI SOUP. 

Ingredient*: five pound lean beef, two onions, two carrots, one 
head of celery, one bay-leaf, a few allspice, pepper and salt, a 
little soy, three quarts of water, four ounces macaroni. How to use 
them : Cut up the carrots, onions, and celery into pieces, lay them 
in the bottom of a stewpan, and place the beef, cut into small 
pieces, on the top, sprinkle a little salt over it, and stand on the 
stove in a hot place to cook (taking care not to burn it) for one 
hour; then add three quarts of cold water, take off the fat, and 
boil it, take off' all the scum, add a little soy, one bay-leaf, and 
a few allspice, and let simmer for three hours; strain through a 
cloth, and with a piece of paper laid lightly on the top of the 
soup take off any remaining fat. Boil four ounces macaroni in 
plenty of water until tender, then cut it into small pieces and 
place in the soup ; bring it to the boil, and it is ready. 

A LA REINE SOUP. 

Ingredients : three pounds knuckle of veal, one onion, one 
carrot, a small piece of celery, two blades of mace, two ounces 
rice, one ounce sweet-almonds, a little roux, one quart of milk, 
two quarts of water and a gill of cream and seasoning. How to 
use them : Cut up the veal, onion, carrot and celery, and place in 
a stewpan with two quarts of water, add some pepper and salt, 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 81 

two blades of mace, and" two ounces rice; boil all together three 
hours ; strain off the liquor, and to it add one quart of milk and 
one ounce blanched sweet almonds, pounded tine in a mortar ; 
boil and thicken with a little roux, strain through a fine hair 
sieve, add a gill of cream, and the soup is prepared. 

ROUX FOR THICKENING ALL KINDS OF SOUPS, 
SAUCES, GRAVIES, ETC. 

Ingredients : One pound good butter, fine flour. How to use 
them : Place the butter in a stewpan, bring it to the boil on the 
stove, taking care it does not burn ; stand on one side to allow 
the sediment to settle, take off the scum, pour the clarified por- 
tion into a clean stewpan, to which add sufficient flour to make 
it into a stiff paste ; place it on the stove in not too hot a place 
for about four hours, stirring occasionally until the roux assumes 
a fine golden color; put this away in a cool place, and it will 
keep good for weeks. 

SOLES A LA CARDINAL. 

Ingredients : Three soles filleted, half a pint of stock-broth, 
pepper and salt, the juice of one lemon, one glass of sherrv, a 
tittle anchovy sauce and three drops of cochineal, a little roux, 
and two ounces butter. How to use them : Wipe the fillets with 
a clean cloth, sprinkle some pepper and salt over them, roll 
them up in the form of corks, place in a baking-tin with a little 
butter and the juice of a lemon, cover with a piece of buttered 
paper, and bake for fifteen minutes in a hot oven ; when cooked 
dish them in a circle and pour over them a sauce made as fol- 
io ws : half a pint of stock, a little anchovy sauce, some season- 
ing, and a little roux boiled together ; strain the sauce and add 
one glass of sherry and three drops of cochineal to color it pink. 

TURBOT AND LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Ingredients : One turbot, one lobster, half a pint of stock, a 
tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, a little cayenne pepper, and a 
little roux. Plow to use them: Wash the turbot, wipe it dry, 
and prick it all over with a large needle ; then rub it over with 
the juice of a lemon and a little salt, place it in a fish-kettle, add 
sufficient cold water to cover the fish, then throw in a good 
handful of ialt and set the turbot on the fire to boil ; take off the 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 82 

scum, and let it gently boil for half an hour, more or less, accord- 
ing to the size of the fish ; when the turbot is cooked lift it out 
of the water with the drainer, and slip it carefully on to a dish 
prepared to receive it ; decorate it with lemon and parsley, and 
serve with a boat of lobster sauce. 

Lobster Sauce : Boil half a pint of stock, add to it a table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, a little cayenne pepper, thicken with 
a little roux, and strain ; add the meat of the lobster cut up into 
nice-size pieces. 

FILLET OF BEEF A LA FINANCIERS 

Procure about five-pound fillet of beef, trim it, and lard it with 
fat bacon ; cut up one onion, one carrot, and a small head of 
celery into a stewpan ; add two blades of mace, a few allspice, 
two bay-leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little parsley ; 
then lay in the fillet, add a pint of stock and some seasoning, 
cover with buttered paper, and bring to the boil on the stove ; then 
place the stewpan in the oven for two hours ; take off the paper 
when nearly cooked to allow the top to become crisp. 

Sauce for the Fillet : Place in the stewpan one pint of stock, 
one onion, one-half pound lean bacon, a blade of mace, and a 
few allspice ; boil forty minutes, take out the bacon, and thicken 
the gravy with a little roux; add a little soy, and strain the 
sauce ; cut up the bacon into small squares, throw them into the 
sauce, add a tin of preserved mushrooms, place the fillet on a hot 
dish, glaze the top, and put the sauce round ; serve very hot. 



FOWLS A LA MACEDOINE. 

Into a stewpan put one quart of stock, a blade of mace, one 
onion, and one carrot cut up, a piece of celery, a sprig of thyme, 
and some seasoning ; lay in three small or two large fowls, prick 
them all over the breast with a needle ; bring them to the boil 
and simmer thirty -five minutes ; when cooked, pour the gravy 
from them into another stewpan ; thicken it with a little roux ; 
add a glass of port wine ; strain it, and add a tin of macedoine 
vegetables ; place the the fowls on the dish, glaze the breasts, 
and pour the sauce round them ; place four small heaps of Brus- 
sels sprouts round them for garnish ; serve very hot. 



KEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 83 

OYSTERS IN CASES. 

Scald two dozen oysters in their own liquor, strain the liquor 
into a stewpan, add half a pint of milk, a little grated nutmeg 
and some seasoning ; boil it, thicken with a little roux, put two 
oysters into each (ramequin case), and pour the sauce equally 
over all ; sprinkle the tops with a few breadcrumbs, and bake in 
a hot oven ten minutes ; dish in a circle on a napkin in a hot 
entree-dish, garnish with parsley and serve. 

MUTTON CUTLETS A LA SOUBISE. 

Procure eight bones of small mutton, take off the chinebone 
and cut out twelve cutlets ; into a stewpan put one onion, one 
carrot, and a piece of celery cut up, lay the cutlets in a circle, 
with the bone ends to the centre, on the top of the vegetables ; 
add one quart of stock broth and some seasoning, and let gently 
simmer one hour ; let the cutlets get cold in the liquor, then 
take them out and trim them ; lay them in a saute*-pan, strain 
the liquor, and reduce it over a sharp fire to a demi-gJaze; pour 
it over the cutlets, and when required, place the saute'-pan in a 
hot oven for ten minutes ; boil eight onions in some stock until 
reduced to a pulp, add one ounce butter, a pinch of sugar, and 
strain through a coarse-mesh metal strainer, and bring it to the 
boil ; dish the cutlets in a circle overlapping one another ; pour 
the subise in the centre and the demi-glaze round them, and 
serve very hot. 

GALANTINE OF VEAL. 

Take from four pounds to five pounds breast of veal, take out 
bones, well beat it with the rolling-pin, and pick it all over with 
a fork, cover it with a layer of forcemeat, lay on it strips of fat 
bacon, hard-boiled eggs, gherkins, and mushrooms ; roll it up, 
and tie tightly in a cloth, and boil it in the pot with the turkey 
for two hours ; when cooked, press it between two dishes until 
cold. 

CRUST FOR THE PIES. 

Two pounds fine flour, one pound butter well rubbed in the 
flour, add two eggs and a little water, make into a compact paste, 
and let lay whilst you cut up the game and meat for the perigord 
pie. 



84 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

THE GAME PIES. 

Line two small French pie-tins, with the crust not too thick ; 
cover the sides and bottom with forcemeat, cut up the game, 
whatever it may be, and fill the mould ; cover the top of the 
meat with forcemeat, and then cover with a crust of the paste, 
wash over with egg, ornament to fancy with leaves and flowers, 
and bake in moderate oven for two hours ; when cooked, fill up 
the pie with gravy from the pot the galantines were cooked in. 
adding a little gelatine to stiffen the gravy ; place the pie in a 
cool place. 

PERIGORD PIE. 

Line a half-quartern bread tin with buttered paper, then a 
lining of the paste, cover the sides and bottom with forcemeat, 
sprinkle over with chopped mushrooms, then fill up the inside 
with strips of veal, bacon, and any cold chicken or turkey you 
may chance to have in the larder, a few truffles, a little grated 
nutmeg, pepper and salt, cover the meat over with forcemeat, 
and then a paste crust, wash over with egg-wash, and bake for 
two hours in a moderate oven ; when baked, fill up the pie with 
gravy in which a little gelatine has been dissolved. Let the pie 
get cold, then cut out in nice square pieces, not too thick. 

JELLIES. 

Soak your gelatine thoroughly before using. To three-fourtf 
pound opaque gelatine add six quarts of water ; let soak for * 
good half hour. Now proceed to make the jelly : Take the gel- 
tine, which will have swollen pretty freely by this time, and starvs 
it on the side of the stove, add three pounds loaf-sugar, the juic* 
often lemons, ? Qall piece of cinamon ; stir these ingredients well 
together untiJ *he gelatine and sugar are thoroughly dissolved^ 
then take fiv< whites of eggs, whisk up in a little water, then adtS 
them to the gelatine, and bring steadily to the boil. After it haa 
stood a few minutes pass through a flannel jelly-bag ; by pouring 
back some of the first through two or three times it will come B 
clear as crystal, and be ready to receive the flavors and color 
required for table. In ornamenting the moulds for thejelliea 
care must be taken to blend the colors artistically; for ex- 
ample, a dark-colored jelly or cream would require ornament- 
ing with white whipped jelly and light-colored fruits; and a li 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 86 

colored jelly or cream should have a dark-colored jelly or 
fruit to ornament it. 

WHIPPED JELLY. 

Whipped jelly being the principal ornamentation of most jellies 
and creams, can easily be made by taking about half a pint of 
warm clear jelly, and standing the basin containing it in a 
larger vessel of cold water or ice, and well whisking the jelly 
with a wire whisk until nearly cold. We will now proceed to 
ornament the moulds required for the jellies. For the orange 
jetties, pour about a wineglassful of clear jelly in the top of each 
mould, and strew a few preserved cherries and blanched pista- 
chio nuts in it, stand it in ice-water to get cold quickly ; when 
that is set, run in a layer of white whipped jelly, about one inch 
thick, and when that is set, fiM up the mould with the orange 
jelly a little at a time, taking care not to put it in too hot, and 
only a small quantity at a time. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Take enough clear jelly to fill the moulds required, add the 
juice of three oranges, also the yellow rind of the oranges 
rubbed on sugar, and the juice of one lemon ; mix these well to- 
gether, and strain through a muslin. 

CHERRY JELLIES. 

Pour a little clear jelly in the top of each mould, and with a 
spoon mix a sheet of gold leaf (which can be procured from the 
grocers) well in the jelly in each mould ; let it set, then run in 
on the top of it a layer of white whipped jelly ; when that is set, 
fill up with the cherry jelly, made as follows: Take enough clear 
jelly to fill the moulds, add one glass of noyeau and a few drops 
of cochineal to color it. 

WINE JELLY. 

Ornament the top of the mould with a little clear jelly, in 
which drop some green grapes and a few preserved cherries ; 
then, when that is set, run a layer of whipped jelly, colored pink 
with a few drops of cochineal, on the top of the first layer, and 



86 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

when that is set fill up the mould with the wine jelly, made as 
follows : To one pint of clear jelly add a glass of sherry and 
brandy mixed. 

CLEAR JELLY. 

Ornament the top of the mould with a little clear jelly, col- 
ored pink ; when that is set, run in a layer of white whipped jelly ; 
when that is thoroughly cold, fill up the mould with the clear 
jelly a little at a time. 

Now ornament six moulds for the creams. 

TWO PINEAPPLE CREAMS. 

Eun a little clear jelly in the top of each mould ; when that is 
set, run a layer, about half an inch thick, of whipped jelly, colored 
red with cochineal. 

ONE NOYEAU CREAM. 

Eun in the top of the mould a layer of white whipped jelly. 

ONE VANILLA CREAM. 

Eun in the top of the mould a little clear jelly and a few 
green grapes. 

TWO LEMON CREAMS. 

Eun in the top of each mould a little clear jelly ; in one put 
some preserved cherries, in the other a little gold leaf; when set, 
run in a layeof whipped jelly, colored red with cochineal. 

HOW TO BOIL A HAM. 

If the weight of the ham is about ten pounds it will require 
three hours and a-half gentle boiling. Soak the ham for a few 
hours, then scrape it clean, and saw off the knuckle, place it in 
a stewpan, with a pinch of moist sugar, a blade of mace, a few 
allspice, and a sprig of thyme, cover it with cold water and boil 
as directed ; leave it in the liquor to get cold, then take off the 
rind, wipe with a clean cloth, and cover it with rasped bread- 
crumbs. 



N.EW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 87 

HOW TO BOIL TONGUE. 

Well wash a good pickled tongue and place it in a stewpan, 
cover with cold water, cut up one small onion and half a carrot, 
and a little celery, and a few allspice ; throw these in the water 
with the tongue, and boil it until cooked (about three hours) 
which can easily be seen by running a fork in the centre ; if it 
seems tender it is done ; when cooked, throw it in cold water and 
take off the skin. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

How to make : Take the liquor the galantines were boiled in, 
take off the fat, and pour the clear portion into a stewpan, and 
to each quart of the liquor add two ounces gelatine, one onion, 
one carrot, a little celery, two ounces lean ham, and a small 
bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and a few allspice, pepper and 
salt ; stand the stewpan on the stove, occasionally stirring, until 
the gelatine is melted, then add five whites of eggs well whisked 
in a little cold water, stir all together, and bring ger?tly to the boil ; 
take off the stove and let stand five minutes, pass through a flan- 
nel jelly-bag, putting back some of the aspic as it runs through 
two or three times, then it will be quite ready for using for the 
Bupsian salads, eel in aspic aiK 1 the savory aspic. 

RUSSIAN SALAD. 

How to make : Procure carrots, onions, turnips, and potatoes, 
boil them, cut them into small square pieces and let them get 
cold ; also have a beet-root cut up, and some preserved green 
peas ; place these vegetables in small groups (arranging the dif- 
ferent colors fancifully) in a mould having a hollow centre, fill 
up the mould with the vegetables, then fill in on the vegetables 
some nearly cold aspic jelly, and place away to set ; when turned 
out of the mould, in the hollow in the centre put a little mayon- 
aise sauce and a few small pieces of lobster. 

EEL IN ASPIC. 

How to make: Procure a boned eel, weighing about one 
pound, from the fishmonger's ; with a knife take out any small 
bones that may be by chance left in, sprinkle some pepper and 
salt and a little chopped parsley over it, and roll it up, tie in a 
piece of muslin, and boil twenty minutes in water to which a 



88 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK^ 

little vinegar h is been added ; let it get thoroughly cold, cut it 
into slices, and place the best round the sides of the mould, and 
the rouj*h pieces in the centre, fill up the mould with nearly 
cold aspic jelly ; place in the larder until wanted. 

SAVORY ASPIC. 

How to make: Cut up some pieces of cooked veal and ham 
and a few preserved mushrooms, the whites of two hard-boiled 
eggs. Take a plain mould, run in the top a little aspic jelly, 
place in the aspic jelly a little parsley in small sprays, a piece 
of beetorot, and some cooked white of hard-boiled egg ; work 
these in some fancy shape, then let set, and fill up the mould with 
the meat, and fill in with nearly cold aspic jelly, and place in 
the larder until wanted. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Ingredients : one pound flour, one pound good butter, one egg, 
one lemon. How to use them : Put the flour on the pastry-slab, 
rub in one ounce butter, make a hole in the centre, in which put 
one egg and the juice of one lemon, mix it with cold water into a 
smooth, flexible paste, and dry up with a little flour and let it lie 
ten minutes on the slab, take the fifteen ounces butter, and with 
a large knife work out the water from it, bringing it to the same 
consistency as the paste, upon which place, press it out with the 
hand, then fold over the edges of the paste so as to hide the butter, 
and roll it with the rolling-pin to the thickness of a quarter of 
an inch, thus making it nearly two feet in length ; fold over 
one third then fold over the other third, thus making a square, 
place it with the ends top and bottom before you, shaking a 
little flour over and under it, and repeat the rolls and turns 
twice as before. Flour a board or tin, upon which lay the 
paste, and put it in some cool place for half an hour ; then roll 
it twice more, turning it as before ; let it lie another quarter of 
an hour, give it two more rolls, making seven in all, and it is 
ready for use when required. 

SHORT PASTE. 

Ingredients : one pound flour, one-half pound butter, the yolk 
of one egg, and a little water. How to use them : Rub the butter 
well in the flour, make a hole in the centre, break in the yolk 



NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 89 

of one egg, and mix into a smooth, compact paste with cold water, 
then it is ready for use. 

SWISS PASTRY. 

Take a piece of short paste, roll it out the thickness of a 
penny-piece, spread some marmalade thinly over it, then cover 
it with a layer of paste the same thickness ; wash the top over 
with egg, and sprinkle over it some chopped almonds and 
coarse white sugar ; mark with a knife nice-size pieces, and bake 
it in a brisk oven. 

MINCE PIES. 

Mincemeat, how to make. Ingredients : One pound currants, 
one pound sultanas, one-half pound beef suet, one-half pound 
moist sugar, two pounds apples, one pound mixed peel, one- 
quarter ounce mixed spice, the grating and juice of one lemon 
and one orange. How to use them : Well wash and pick the 
currants and sultanas ; chop up the suet very fine, using the 
sugar to separate it ; pare the peel off, and take out the cores of 
the apples, and chop them moderately fine ; chop up the mixed 
peel very fine, sprinkle the spice over the ingredients, and well 
mix together ; grate the rind of the orange and lemon over it, 
and add the juice of the lemon and orange ; place in stone jars, 
and it will keep good for months in a cool place. Line the 
bottom of some small patty-pans with a thin cover of short 
paste ; plaice a little heap of mincemeat in the centre, then 
sprinkle a little water over them with a brush, and cover the 
tops with puff-paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and bake 
in a good oven. When baked, sprinkle a little powdered white 
sugar over them, and be sure to take them out of the pans while 
they are warm, because if let get cold, they will stick to the 
bottom, and tear the short paste and let out the mincemeat. 
Warm the mince pies previously to dishing up, as they should 
not be quite cold when eaten. 

FOR ITALIAN PASTRY AND TIPSY CAKE. 

Ingredients : One pint milk, six ounces loaf sugar, five eggs, 
a small piece of cinnamon. Boil the milk, sugar, and cinna- 
mon together, whisk the eggs well up, pour the boiling milk over 



90 NEW AMERICAN HOME COOK BOOK. 

them, well whisking all the time, stir them well together over a 
slow fire until boiling; takeoff and stand the stewpan in cold 
water and stir until cold. 

ITALIAN PASTRY. 

Take some short paste, roll out very thin, spread some custard 
over it, cover it with a layer of short paste, then mask the top 
over with meringue, made as follows: Four whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, stir in five ounces powdered white sugar, 
bake it in a cooljoven ; when baked, cut it up in fancy shapes, and 
ornament the tops with preserved fruits. 

MERINGUES. 

Ingredients : Eight whiles of eggs, one pound powdered white 
sugar. Break the whites of eggs very carefully into a clean 
pan ; then with a wire whisk beat them to a stiff snowy froth, so 
that the whisk will stand upright in them; then gently stir 
in the sugar, and with a dessertspoon lay out in little heaps like 
half eggs on stiff white paper, sprinkle a little powdered sugar 
over them, and bak^ ia a very cool oven ; when baked a nice 
light brown, take out and lift up the meringue, and with a tea- 
spoon scoop out the soft part in the centre and place back in the 
oven to dry for a few minutes. Keep in a dry place until wanted. 
Before sending to table fill in the hollows with whipped cream, 
and place two together so as to form an egg in shape. 

SANDWICH PASTRY. 

Cut out of a sheet of puff-paste strips about three inches long, 
an inch wide, and about half an inch thick ; lay them on their 
edge and bake in a hot oven ; when nearly cooked, sprinkle 
some fine sugar over them ; when cooked spread some jam on one 
piece and cover it with another, the same as a sandwich. 



THE AMATEUR PAINTER. 




A Manuel of Instruc- 
tion in the Arts of 




Tanlshuj 



AND 

1 *- T T * 



"With Plain Rules 
for the practice of ev- 
ery department of 
HOUSE AND SIGN 

Painting. 

CONTENTS: 

Colors and How to Mix them. Compound Colors. Oils. Var- 
nishes. Polishes. Gilding Materials. Miscellaneous 
Materials. Grinding and Washing Colors. Cleanliness 
in Working. Practice of Painting. Practice of Var- 
nishing and Polishing. Practice of Gilding. Instruc- 
tions of Sign Writing. Harmony of Colors. Birds-Eye 
Maple in Distemper. Satin Wood. Mahogany in Dis- 
temper. Mahogany in Oil. Rose Wood. 
This book is thorough in detail in every branch of Painting. By its aid 

every man can become his own Painter, in whatever kind of work he desires 

to undertake. PRICE 25 CENTS. 




We believe in making home happy, and whatever tends to promote this 
condition we welcome with joy. This book is chock full of- the choicest, 
newest and best collection of 

Biddies, Charades, Enigmas, Puzzles, Rebusses, Conun- 
drums, Anagrams, Transpositions, Paradoxies, 

Acrostics, Problems, 

and other entertaining matter ever put together within the covers of any 
book heretofore published. It is a real live, inscrutible SPHINX, as in- 
scrutible and mysterious as the fabulous Egyptian one of old. 

There is fun for the Mirthful, food for the Curious, wxd matter for the 
Thoughtful in abundance, Price 20 Cents. 



FORTUNE-TELLING 




And tlie W He lie's Itey to L,ucky Drou-ms. 

Every person 
their own For- 

tuue Teller Witu 

*Ms b <* you can 
tell your o\vn or 
auy person's for- 
tune far better 
than any astrolo- 
ger, clairvoyant 
or medium ran 
for you. It fore- 
tells exactly what 
will happen to 
you in the future; 
it gives the Hin- 
doo Secrets of 
Love, and how to 
manage, what to 
say, and what to 
do to gain the af- 
fections, the love. 
the heart and the 
hand of the per 
son you desire to 
marry; it gives 

the Art of Telling Fortune by the Lines of the Hand; it contains a 
Complete Dictionary of Dreams, so that you can at once interpret 
any dream as soon a.s you hear it. It tells you a Charm to Protect you 
from Danger. It teaches how to make the Lucky Dream Rose. Who 
your Husband or your Wife shall be. The Love Charm. How to Know 
the Sex of Children before Birth. To know how soon you will Marry. 
To know what Fortune you will have. The Lover's Charm. The only 
true method to tell Fortunes by Tea or Coffee Cup. To know if your 
love of a person will be mutual. Fortune Telling by Cards. What you 
will be successful in. What your absent Wife or Husband is doing. 
What your Fortune Destiny is. Whether your Wife, Husband or In- 
ten led is true to you. Whether you will ever Marry or uot. 
Whether you will have mon,>y left you. Ho\v to be successful in your 
love affair's. Whether you will e a Widow. Whether you will die Rich 
or Poor. Seven Signs of Speedy Marriage. Signs how to Choose a good 
Husband or Wife. In fart there is no end to the mysterious revelations. 
Toucan foretell the Results of all Commercial and Business Specula- 
tions. It points out clearly the path to prosperity. Riches and Hap- 
piness. If you have encountered losses, misfortune or treachery of 
friends, orhnvp been slighted by the one your affections have centered 
upon, nr had bad luck in life, Old Gypsy Ma<l</e will help you through. 
and tell you how to conquer at last. She'll teach you to overcome 
all obstacles and turn the tide of Good Luck towards yon. Sample copy 
and terms to Agents sent bv mail, post paid, for *5 cents, or five 
copies to one address for $1.00. 

Address E. G. BIDEOUT & CO., Publishers, 

10 BARCLAY STREET, N. Y. 



\VITHOUT THE 




AIID OP A MASTER, AND BALL- 
ROOM MANUAL.. 

DANCING, as an elegant accomplish- 
ment, has ever stood prominent, because 
no other art or exercise can give the in- 
dividual tkat graceful demeanor and easy 
deportment so essential to a correct appear- 
ance in cultured society. As it is not always 
convenient to have recourse to a teacher 
of dancing, this work aims to supply the 
deficiency. In this it has been very success- 
ful. By a series of practical and lucid instruc- 
tions the art of dancing is so simplified that 
any one can become proficient in the art With- 
out the Aid of a master. In addition to specific 
detailed instructions as to how to dance, it 
gives some very valuable information relating 
to Organizing a Ball, Ball-Room Toilet, Eti- 
quette of the Bull-Room. All the Popular 
Dances are given, and the whole is illustrated 
by numerous cuts and diagrams, making the 
art so simple that the most ignorant can be- 
come experts in it 

Price 25 Cents. 



LOVE MAKING-; 

Or An Easy Road to Marriage. 

Start right and the battle is half won. A man in love, or a lady whose 
heart has been touched with the burning fire of true love, will find in 
in this book strfnge secrets that no friend could tell them, 
and an K:isy W y to Mariage through Love'* intricate 
pathway. It al ;o contains many Ancient Hidden Secrets that the 
married should ku< w. If a wife has a wayward husband, or feels that 
she is neglected, g^l this book into his hands at once, and it will surely 
reclaim him to hi* first love. It startles while it teaches. It proves 
that the Way to Win is no longer a secret. If you follow this writer's 
advice, failure to win the object of your choice Is impossible. Send for 
this book. It will pay you a thousand times the price. Every country, 
civilized and barbarous has been ransacked to get The Secrets of 
l,o ve Making. It will bring joy to thousands of both sexes, and 
cause more hearts and hands to be united in marriage than all other in- 
strumentalities combined. It is full of strange things regarding 
Love Making which you never heard before. If you are in love, and it 
is not reciprocated, this Great Book will open wide Love's barred door 
for you, and break down every barrier. Sample copy and terms to 
Agents sent by mail, post paid, for 25 cents, or five copies to one ad- 
dress for 81. Ol). 

Address E. G. RIDEOUT & CO., Publishers, 

10 BARCLAY STREET, N, Y. 




JOLLY TIT BITS FOR MIRTHFUL MORTALS. 

"Too Funny for Anything/' 

Josh Billings, Bret Harto and Mark Twain rolled into one. It is not 
to much to say that this book contains the Choicest Humor in the Eng- 
lish Language, Its size is mammoth, containing more than One 
Thousand of the Raciest Jests, Comical Hits. Exhilarating Stories, 
Flowers of Wit, Excruciating Jokes, Uproarious Poems, Rollicking 
Songs, Laughable Sketches, Darky Comicalties, Clown's Efforts. Button- 
bursting Conundrums. Eudmeu's Jokes. Plantation Humor, Funny 
Caricatures, Hitalutiu' Dialogues Kurieua Scenes, Kute Sayings, 
Ludicrous Drolleries, Peculiar Repartees In fact, it is a complete "Joe 
Miller" and " Tom Brown" in the one volume. All the Great Comic 
Stars refer to it, because they cafi" find in it something to " touch the 
funny-bone" every time. It contains an immense collection of Irish 
Bulls, Dutch Comicalities, and Yankee Yarns, affording fun for a life- 
time. Humorously illustrated by lots of Komical Kuts, 

Price 25 Cents. 



LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S 

LETTER-WRITER. 

A complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen. This book is not 
a collection of letters and examples, as is generally the case with all 
" Complete Letter Writers" now in use, but it is a book which actually 
tells how to write a letter, upon any subject, out of the writer's "own 
head." It gives much very necessary information relating to Punctua- 
tion, Spelling, Grammar, Writing for the Press, Legal Importance of 
Letters, Love, Courtship and Marriage. It. also contains the Art of Rapid 
Writing, by the abbreviations of Long-hand, and ;i Dictionary of Ab- 
breviations. This book is worth its weight in gold to all. No one can 
fail to be benefitted by some of the information it contains. It contains 
all the points and features that are in other Letter Writers, with very 
much that is new, original and very important, and which cannot be 
got in any other book. Price by mail, 

25 Cents. 
Address E. GU HIDEOUT & CO., Publishers, 

|0 BARCLAY STREET, N. Y, 





THE HORSE-OWNER'S GUIDE, 

AND COMPLETE 

HORSE-DOCTOR. 

There ia 110 one who owns, cares for or works a horse, who can afford to 
be without this work. It is just the handy, complete and practical mamiel 
that has long been needed by horse owners. It is written by a well-known 
Veterinary Surgeon and Horse Dealer of great experience, so that no matter 
of importance relating to the horso in all its existence is neglected. This 
work thoroughly informs you about 

THE KIND OF HORSE TO BUY. TO DETECT HQRSfc 

JOCKEY-TRICKS. TO MANAGE A HORSE. TO 

SHOE A HORSE. TO BREAK AND TRAIN 

HORSES. TO CURE ALL KINDS OF 

HORSE DISEASES. 

THEBK 13 NOTHING RELATING TO 

BUYING, BREEDING, BEABING, TKAINING, SHOE^ 
ING, FEEDING, TAMING, BBEAKING 

AND DOCTOKING HORSES 

but is thoroughly detailed. In addition is given the Art ot Train ing 
and Taming Horses by a new method. And it tells- -How to make a 
Horse lie down. To Catch a Wild Horse. To Teach a Horse to Pace. To 
Make a Horse Stand, To Make a Horse Sit on its Haunches. To Make a 
Horse Come Down for Mounting. To Make a Horse Follow you. To Maka 
a Horse Stand Still without Hitching. To Break Horses to Ride. To Prevent 
a Horse Running Away. Illustrated with Engravings 
Tills Great Practical Work otl tlie Horse fa only 35 Cents. 

THE SARA BERNHARDT 

BOOK OF BEAUTY. 

Ladies' and Gentlemen's Toilet Companion. How fo> 
Become Beautiful. 

Cures for all diseases affecting the personal appearance. All the valuabl 6 
recipes of the world. How to attain Bodily Vigor. Physical Development. 
Beauty of Feature and Symmetry of Form, with the Science of Dreswiug 
with Taste. Elegance and Economy. To those to whom nature has been 
sparing in its gifts suggestions are here offered that will enable them to 
overcome these defects, and become beautiful, elegant and graceful, and to 
be admired and sought after by the opposite sex. Among the numerous 
other matters it tells. How to Improve the Complexion. Make Cosmetics. 
Remove Freckles. Make the Eyes Beautiful. Cause the Eyelashes and 
Brows to Grow Long. Prevent the Hair Falling Off. Prevunt Grey Hair, 
Cause the Beard and Mustache to Grow. Cure Baldness. Remove Super- 
fluous Hair. Preserve the Teeth. Cure Toothache. Have White Hands, 
Cure Corns. Cure Pimples. Invigorate the System. Increase tho Memory. 
Prolong Life. Cure Nervous Ailments. Increase the Vital Forces. Pro- 
duce Physical Vigor, etc. It gives a vast amount of other equally important 
information which cannot be enumerated here. Illustrated. Price by mail, 
post paid. 25 cents* 

E. G. HIDEOUT & CO., Publishers, 10 Barclay St., N. Y. 




Parlor Magic or Stage Conjuring. 

A COMPLETE WIZARD'* GUIDE. 

The Art of Conjurin" 
Unveiled. As performed 
by the Wonderful Magi- 
ciaus, Houdin, Colonel 
Stodare. Heller, Wymau, 
and others. Comprising 
all their best Stage Tricks 
and giving Full Explana- 
tions for Performing 
them in the parlor or on 
the stage. These Tricks 
are elegantly Illustrated, 
thereby making them 
nmcli easier to perform, 
and teaches the reader 
how to be a Magician 
without any further in- 
structions. Any person 
can study this book a 
short time and perform 
the most difficult trick 
done by the best magi- 
cians. Ton can bring Bowla of Goldfish from an Empty Handkerchief; 
or Tell a Card by Smelling it, or Make a Card Vanish from the Pack and 
be found in a Person's Pocket; to nnike a Card Rise bodily out of a Pack; 
to Make a. Marked Dime fly into the Centre of an Apple; to Make a Coin 
Answer Questions; to make it Shower 'Real Mouwy; to Make a Hand- 
kerchief Change into ail Egg; to Take several Bird Cages from a Hat; to 
Take Borrowed Rings and Live Doves out of an Omelet; the Chinese 
Solid Ring Trick; to Make Fresh Flowers Grow out of an Empty Flower 
Pot; the Flying Glass of Water; to Pull Several Live Rabbits out of a 
Hat, and then Roll them all into one; it teaches the Wonderful Sphinx 
Illusion Trick. This trick is wortli a hundred dollars. The Cabinet of 
Skeletons and Spirits. The Indian Basket Trick is a fortune to an Ama- 
teur. ToMalce a Drum hang to the ceiling, Tap or Roll; to Make a 
Living Woman Sleep in Mid Air. The above are a few among many of the 
wonderful tricks that this book teaches how to perform. Persons de- 
siring to give an entertainment, either in a parlor or hall, can learn 
enough from this book to delight a company for two hours. These 
tricks are the very best ever performed. One thousand dollars a night 
has been received at the door to see these tricks performed. Sample 
copy and terms to Agents, sent by mail, post paid, for 25 cents* 

READY-MADE AUTOGRAPH ALBUM VERSES. 

As everybody wishes to oblige his lady friends, here is the very book 
that must be acceptable to everybody. Expressive of almost every 
human feeling and sentiment, such as Love, Friendship, Respect, Ad- 
miration, Good Wishes, etc., including a great number of Acrostics for 
Proper Names, all entirely original. No gentleman, young, middle-aged 
or old, can go at all into society without having some fair lady's Book 
of Autographs plumped into his hands. He feels that to refuse would 
stamp him a downright bear. He must comply. Left to himself he 
would probably write "himself down as an ass." But this book will 
take him out of tha dilemma. Here he will find something to write, at 
once eloquent and appropriate, to suit every phase of feeling, senti- 
ment or humor. Any article that he may copy from this book will 
stamp him as a gentleman in the best meaning of the term. 

Price 25 Cents. 
Address E. G. HIDEOUT & CO., Publishers, 

10 BARCLAY STREET, N. Y 



