LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

©i^. .._'^.©a|n)n5]^1o 

Shelf. Q<^^ 
— i^i^^ 

UNITED STATES OP AMERICA. 



MES. OWENS 



COOK BOOK, 



AND 



USEFUL HINTS 



FOR THE 



HOUSEHOLD. 



<& 



r 



-n'y 



/ 



By MES. FEANCES E. OWENS; - 



fi 



t>-^'c6t-:'wuHr;'i* " 



Six cv ^••M-^w4-iJ w; 

Chicago, III.: "*^* 

Household- Publishing Societt, 

530 Pulton Steebt. 
J. B. SMILEY, PgBLiSHEB. 

1882. 



A 



/ 
\0 



xr.5 



c^*^' 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1881, 

Bt Mrs. FRANCES E. OWENS, 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



Copyright, 


1882, by Mrs. FRANCES E, 


. OWENS. 


All Rights Reserved, 


Copyright, 


1882, l)y Mrs. FRANCES E. 
All Rights Reserved. 


OWENS. 





TO THOSE 

UNTIRING WORKERS, 

who are compelled to add to the 

Responsible Positions of Wives and Mothers 

THE cares and PERPLEXITIES 

OF HOUSEKEEPERS, WHOSE ANXIOUS LABORS' 

I HAVE SHARED, 

I Respectfully Dedicate 
This Book, 

WITH the fond hope THAT IT WILL HELP 

Lighten their Burdens. 



PREFACE. 



Every housewife has a notably good way of doing certain 
things. The province of this book is to present a large 
number of these successes in a cheap and convenient form 
for daily reference. 

Since it became known that I had undertaken to publish 
this little book, letters have come to me from friends living 
in all sections, containing choice cooking recipes and hints 
for the household, culled from practical eveiy day experience. 
In many cases the writers had collected from their immediate 
friends, thus adding to the number. 

The different departments will be found sufficiently elabo- 
rate for almost any occasion in an ordinary domestic life. 

But the special object of this work is to help those of our 
sisterhood who unite the qualities of wives, mothers and house 
maids. And the easiest way has been selected whenever a 
choice could be made with that end in view. 

The housewife whose means are unrestricted need not study 
the little harrowing details of trying to make one dollar do 
duty for five in providing for her table. But the masses, from 
sheer necessity, must count their pennies and tighten their purse 
strings when tempted to indulge the appetite beyond a pre- 
scribed limit. 



6 PREarACE. 

There are suggestions in these pages which, if carried out, 
will vary a bill of fare and make it pleasing to the eye and 
appetizing to the palate at the smallest possible outlay of 
money. 

In the section devoted to " Hash " there are directions for using 
up remnants of food that will go very far towards furnishing 
the bulk of one meal per day to a family. These dishes are 
palatable, too, and very distinct from the cheap boarding-house 
commodity know by that name. 

" The Latjndbt " hints, if acted upon, will add years to the 
lives of our women who toil. I know whereof I speak. A 
woman with a house full of little ones, having but two hands 
to do the work which would give employment to six, must 
husband her strength if she would be spared to her children. 
It is worse than folly to devote ten hours to a task which 
may be accomplished in five. These aids will make that 
difference. Give them one month's trial, and the old ways 
will belong to the dead past, never to be revived. 



Mrs. Owens' Cook Book, 



SOUPS. 

Soup bones or soup meat should be put to cook in 
plenty of cold water and simmer, not boil. As soon 
as the scum rises, take it off. 

Beef is considered the best meat for a stand by, 
but we subjoin recipes that include other kinds, all 
of which will be found palatable. It is well to keep 
a stock pot of meat broth on hand for soups. Any 
bits of bones or trimmings, the bones from roasts, 
the tough ends from porter-house steaks, or the cold 
bits of cooked meats, or fowls, should be put into it, 
and when cooked done the broth should be strained 
through a colander, and into an earthern vessel, for 
future use. This may then be made the basis of 
almost any kind of soup; maccaroni, vermicelli, 
different vegetables, rice, or noodle. Keep it in a 
cool place; take off the fat that rises. 

Force meat balls for soup are made of cooked meat 
or fowl, minced fine, and seasoned well, and bound 
together with egg. Roll in cracker or bread crumbs, 



8 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

and fry in hot lard in balls the size of the yolk of an 

CKOUTONS. 

Cut bread free from crusts, half an inch square. 
Fry in smoking hot fat. Keep on a plate, unless 
served immediately. Serve in pea soup. 

GEEMAN SOUP BALLS. 

Mix together butter and cracker crumbs into a firm 
round ball. Drop into the soup a very short time 
before serving. Yery nice with chicken broth. 

[Catsups and different sauces are added to soups, 
according to the tastes of families.] 

NOODLES. 

Take one egg, a pinch of salt, half an egg-shell 
• full of water. Stir in all the flour it will take; roll 
as thin as you possibly can; hang over a chair-back 
on a napkin to dry. Then roll up Kke jelly-cake and 
slice off as thin as a wafer. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

If soup is over salted add a teaspoon of sugar and 
a tablespoon of vinegar, and it will help modify it. 
K soups or sauces, or beef tea, have an excess of 



AlO) USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 9 

fat, dip in a piece of coarse brown wrapping paper, 
and it will absorb the fat, and the liquid will run off. 
Two or three papers will free it sufficiently. 

GUMBO SOUP. 
Olive H. 

Boil a spring chicken, though one a year old is 
just as good if sufficiently boiled; when almost done 
add a quart of fresh-picked oki-a, seasoning with salt, 
pepper, spice; for variety add chopped onions and 
cabbage (though they are not an ingredient proper of 
Gumbo) and parsley. Just before serving break in a 
half dozen butter crackers, and add a large lump of 
butter. This is iona fide Gumbo soup, and is for 
three quarts of soup. 

EICE SOUP. 
Mrs. J. W. S. 

Boil a beef bone till the meat is well cooked. 
Half an hour before dinner, put in half a cup of rice. 
Season well. (Excellent.) 

WHITE SOUP. 

Six potatoes, four onions, three tomatoes if desired, 
four tablespoons of crushed tapioca, one and-a-half 
pints milk; butter, pepper and salt. Boil the vege- 
tables in two quarts of water till soft, rub through a 



10 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

sieve, return the paste to the water, add the tapioca 
and boil fifteen minutes; season, add the 'milk, and 
as soon as hot, serve. 

ECONOMICAL SOUP. 

A. C. P., in Household. 

In cool weather, save up all the bones and trim- 
mings from roasts and steaks for two or three days. 
Put into a kettle with four or five quarts of water 
early in the day; add half a cup of beans and a large 
ripe tomato. Keep it boiling gently till an hour be- 
fore dinner, then strain through a colander. Return 
soup to the boiler, slice in three or four potatoes, a 
grated carrot, salt, pepper, and pot-herbs, cut fine. 
Then beat up an egg, and lightly mix with a cup of 
flour. Stir this mixture into the soup in crumbs, let 
boil ten minutes, and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Take eight ripe tomatoes, or half a can, and put to 
boil in two quarts of soup stock, with a bunch of 
herbs. When well done, thicken with a little flour 
made smooth with water. Then strain, season with 
butter, pepper and salt, and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. Rice, Sioux Falls, Dak. 
Six tomatoes skinned. Boil in a pint of water till 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 11 

done; season with butter, pepper and salt, and add a 
quart of milk. Eemove from the fire as soon as it 
comes to a boil, to prevent curdling. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Peel and . slice thin, three or four large potatoes, 
and boil in enough water to cover them until done. 
Then season and add a quart of milk. 

ONION SOUP. 

Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, 
with six large white onions cut in slices; let them 
fry a nice brown, then add six crackers rolled, pepper 
to taste, and a quart of boiling milk and water; let 
it simmer for fifteen minutes and serve. 

PEA HULL SOUP. 

W. T. W. 

After hulling the peas from the pods, tie the pods 
in a bag made of some coarse cotton or linen cloth; 
place the bag in cold water over a moderate fire; boil 
until the sweetness is extracted from the pods; re- 
move the bag; then squeeze it so that all the juice 
will be left in the water; after that is done season as 
any other soup, and depend on it you will have as 
fine and highly flavored a plate of soup as ever graced 
a table or tempted an appetite. Don't throw away 



12 MBS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

the pods of the peas when a soup can be had for so 
small a cost. 

BEAK SOUP. ' 

A pint of beans put into two quarts of water. 
Simmer slowly on the back of the stove several hours. 
A very delicious soup. No seasoning but salt and 
pepper. 

OX TAIL SOUP. 

Chop the ox tails into small pieces. Brown over 
the fire in a spoonful of butter; then put it in water 
and cook slowly until done. Season with pepper and 
salt, A little turnip, onion, carrot, tomatoes and 
parsley, (all minced fine,) may be added fifteen min- 
utes before serving. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Cut a chicken up small; cook until tender; take 
out and use for salads or pressing. Season the broth 
for soup with a little taste of onion, celery, tomato, 
or anything preferred. Before sending to the table, 
add a well-beaten egg and cook slightly. 

LOUISIANA PLANTATION SOUP. 

THE GENUINE GUMBO SOUP. 

Take one squirrel, or if not to be had, take chicken 
or veal, instead. One ham bone; the leaves of okra, 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 1'6 

and young corn and tomatoes. The quantities may 
be estimated from other recipes in the book. 

CONFEDEEATE AKMY SOUP, 

AS MADE AT GENERAL PICKETTS' HEAD QUARTERS. 

One ham bone, one beef bone, one pod red pepper, 
black-eyed peas. Boil in a mess kettle. Splendid 
soup for a wet day. 

CHESTNUT SOUP. 

Boil a quart of chestnuts and rub the meats 
through a fine sieve with a potato masher. Take a 
tablespoon of flour and a tablespoon of butter, mix 
smooth in a saucepan over the fire, add gradually, a 
quart of milk. When scalding hot, season with a 
saltspoon of salt, a pinch of pepper and pinch of nut- 
meg, and add the sifted chestnuts. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Take a turnip, carrot and onion, and slice them, 
and fry in hot butter; add a little flour and the gib- 
lets. Let them brown and then add the amount of 
water required. Simmer four or five hours. Season 
with salt and pepper and thicken with a spoonful of 
browned flour. Take yolks of hard boiled eggs and 
put one in each soup plate when it is served. The 
giblets of one chicken will make but little more than 
a quart of good soup. 



14 MK8. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

MOCK TUETLE SOUP. 

N. A. D. 

Take a calPs head and feet, boil them until the 
meat separates from the bones; pick the bones out 
and cut the meat into inch pieces; put back and boil 
two hours more; chop the brains fine; add eight or 
ten onions and a little parsley ; mix mace, cloves, pep- 
per and salt with this, and put it in the soup an hour 
or more before it is done; roll six or eight crackers 
with half a pound of butter, and when nearly done, 
drop it in; brown a little flour and put in; make 
force meat balls of veal, fry them and put in the bot- 
tom of the tureen. 

[The following soup recipes were procured direct 
from Miss Juliet Corson, by the vsrriter, while in at- 
tendance at her course of Demonstrative Lessons in 
Cookery. They are published with the full consent 
of Miss Corson. The writer has tested them, and 
finds them excellent.] 

TO CLAEIFY SOUP. 

Skim off the cold fat that is at the top. Put in 
the bottom of a sauce pan for each quart of soup 
stock the white and shell of one egg and one table- 
spoon of water; mix, and then pour the soup on. 
Set the saucepan on the fire, and let boil very slowly. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HLNTS. 15 

As the soup heats, the white will harden, and the egg 
will rise to the surface together with the blood and 
cloudiness that remain in the soup. Let boil slowly 
until the under portion is very clear; then strain 
through a towel laid in a colander. 

SOUP STOCK, OK BROTH. 

For clear soup leave the vegetables whole, simply 
peeling them. This gives all the flavor, without the 
cloudiness arising from the vegetables cut up. Use 
the neck of beef, one pound of meat or bone for each 
quart of soup. Have the meat cut from the bone in 
a solid piece, to serve afterwards ; crack the bone and 
put in the bottom of the soup kettle, the meat on the 
bone, then add cold water. Place over the fire to 
heat gradually; as it boils, the blood and albumen 
will rise. For clear soup, this must be skimmed off. 
It is never necessary to wash meat if it comes from 
a clean market; it detracts from its flavor and nutri- 
ment. Add a carrot, turnip, and an onion for three 
or four quarts. Stick six or eight cloves in the onion; 
salt and pepper lightly; add a bouquet or fagot of 
herbs; a small bunch of parsley, (two tablespoons,) 
take the roots if you wish the green for a garnish; 
the green stalk of celery is nice to add. A sprig of 
any kind of dried sweet herb, except sage, and one bay 
leaf. A single leek may be used instead of the onion. 
If wished for the gelatinous property, a knuckle of 



MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

ret*l may be added to the soup stock. Cook slowly 
two hours after adding the vegetables; that time will 
secure the flavor. If cooked longer, it will assume a 
jellied consistency. Strain through a sieve, or through 
a folded towel laid in a colander into an earthern ves- 
sel, not in metal. When cold, remove the fat that 
rises. This soup is perfectly clear. 

YEFvY CHEAP SOUP. 

COSTING LESS THAN TEN CENTS A GALLON. 

Take a cup full of little cut pieces of meat either 
cooked or raw. Take a cup each of carrots and turnips, 
half cup onions, all cut small; one cup rice, salt and 
pepper to taste; five quarts cold water; cook slowly 
two hours. A cup of tomatoes, when in season. If 
mutton is used, substitute barley for rice. 

BKUNOISE, OK BROWN SOUP. 

One cup of vegetables cut up into half inch pieces, 
any kind you like, for four quarts of soup. Brown 
them over the fire in a tablespoon each of sugar and 
butter, in the kettle in which the soup is to be made. 
When browned, pour on the soup broth ; cook slowly 
till tender. 

PEA SOUP. 

A pint of dried peas or beans, will make six quarts 
of soup. Use split yellow peas. If put on to cook 
in cold water, add half a cup of cold water every 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS, 17 

fifteen minutes. Let them get soft before salting. 
Wien tender, rub them through a fine colander with 
a potato masher. Take the empty saucepan and set 
over the fire. Rub together in it a tablespoon each 
of butter and flour. When made perfectly smooth, 
add the strained soup. The meal of the peas will be 
held in suspension by the addition of the butter and 
flour, and the result will be a creamy, even soup. 
Meat bones may be used if desired, but should not be 
put in till after the peas commence boiling. If an 
onion is used, fry it in a saucepan before the peas 
are put over. 

POTAGE A LA REII^E. 

Take bits of cold chicken, same quantity of rice, 
boil together till very tender. " Rub through a sieve; 
then make of the consistency of cream, with boiling 
milk. Season to taste, with salt, pepper, and a little 
nutmeg. One pound of chicken and one pound of 
rice will make four quarts of soup. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Have the ox-tail cut up small, wash thoroughly. 
Put on the stove in a kettle of cold water and let 
come to a boil; then take out and dry on a towel. 
Fry brown in a tablespoon of butter or drippings in 
a saucepan over the fire. Add a tablespoon of flour 
and stir amongst it. Cover with water, cut a carrot, 



18 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

a turnip, and a potato in dice; stick six or eiglit 
cloves in a wliole onion. Put all of tliese vegetables 
together witli a bouquet of lierbs into the soup. Season 
palatably, and cook slowly two hours; take out the 
onion and bouquet, then serve. 

PUEEE OF GAME. 

For this soup, potted, or canned, game may be 
used, or cold roast game. If the latter, boil the skin 
and bones for a half hour in water, and use that water, 
strained, for the soup. Rub the flesh of the game 
through a fine colander with a potato masher. For 
each quart wanted, take a tablespoon of flour and a 
tablespoon of butter, put in a saucepan over the fire, 
and stir till they are brown, then add the water or 
broth, spoken of above, and the sifted flesh. Season 
with Bait and pepper. 

PUEEE OF FISH, 

OE OKEAM SOUP OF FISH. 

A pound of cold boiled fish will make about two 
quarts of soup. It must be rubbed through a fine 
sieve. For each quart take a tablespoon of butter, 
. same of flour, mix smooth in a saucepan over the fire 
and add a quart of milk, or milk and water; then add 
the puree of fish. Any game or vegetable soup may 
be made the same way. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 19 

WEEXHAM SOUP. 

One pound of lean meat cut in small pieces, either 
beef or mutton. Peel and slice one large or two 
small carrots, one large turnip, half a dozen medium 
sized onions, a pint of tomatoes, a green stalk of 
celery, if In season, and a small bunch of parsley. 
Tie up the parsley, celery, a dozen cloves, same of 
pepper, a sprig of any sweet herb, except sage. Put 
in a saucer a tablespoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar 
and a salt spoon of pepper; mix, and put all these 
ingredients in layers in a jar, and two quarts of cold 
water. Paste the cover on, and bake slowly five hours. 

CKEAM OF SPIIN'ACH— SOUP. 

"Wash very carefully. Take the leaves for the soup. 
Half a peck will make about two quarts of leaves. 
One quart of leaves will answer for four quarts of 
soup. Throw the leaves into two quarts of boiling 
salted water. Cook only till tender. Frequently it 
will take but three minutes, and never over ten. 
When done, put them into cold water to set the color. 
For each quart of soup take one tablespoon of but- 
ter, the same of flour, mix in a saucepan over the fire ; 
when melted smoothly, begin to pour in milk, stirring 
all the while half a cup at a time, until a quart has 
been used. Season with a teaspoon of salt and a 
pinch of nutmeg and pepper. This soup may be 



20 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

made of all milk, or half milk and half water, all 
water, or of cream. Rub the cooked spinach through 
a fine colander with a potato masher, and add to the 
cream, and the soup is ready to serve. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Use vegetables of at least three colors, carrots, tur- 
nips, and either lettuce, celery, cabbage or string 
beans. Cut the vegetables into strips an inch and a 
half long, and these strips into match-like pieces, very, 
very thin. Keep in cold water till wanted. The 
proportion of vegetables is a cup full all together for 
a gallon of soup. Put each kind separately into boil- 
ing salted water. When tender, drain and lay in cold 
water. This way retains the flavor and color per- 
fectly. Then dish up in the hot soup. Foreigners 
add a tablespoon of vinegar to a quart of Julienne 
Boup. 

BEOWN FISH SOUP. 

Any kind of fish will answer; cut in small pieces; 
roll in flour and brown in some olive oil or butter in 
a saucepan; cover with hot water. Season with salt 
and pepper, and boil slowly for about fifteen minutes. 
See that there is plenty of water. One pound will 
make a quart of soup. A clove of garlic may be 
added. (Excellent.) 



AKD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HTNTS. 21 



FISH. 

Notice that the body of the fish is firm and the 
eyes full, and the gills red. 

Do not allow fish to remain but a short time in 
water. It makes them soft and flabby. 

To thaw out frozen fish, lay them in cold water 
till the ice cleaves from the body. 

Large fish are usually boiled or baked. Small ones 
fried or broiled. 

A fish is scaled more easily by plunging for an 
instant in hot water. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Fresh cod or haddock are regarded as best for 
chowder, although our common lake fish may be 
used. Cut into two inch pieces. Fry some slices of 
salt pork in an iron pot crisp. Take out and chop 
fine, leaving the fat. Put a layer of fish in this fat, 
then a layer of split crackers, then some bits of 
the pork, some thick slices of peeled potatoes and 
some chopped onion and pepper. Then another 
layer of -fish, with a repetition of the other articles. 
Cover with boiling water and cook half an hour. 



22 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

Skim it out in the dish in which it is to be served, 
thicken the gravy with flour, add a little catsup, boil 
up and pour over the chowder. Remove the bones if 
convenient, when dishing up. 

EELS. 

Skin them. Take off head and tail, cut up into 
frying pieces, throw into boiling water for five min- 
utes, then drain, roll in flour or corn meal peppered 
and salted, and fry in very hot lard. 

FROGS. 

Cook the same way as eels. The hind legs only 
are used. 

BOILED FISH. 

"Wrap a large fish in a cloth. Secure it with a 
string. Put it on in cold water, salt well, and it will 
generally cook in half an hour. Remove the cloth 
and serve with drawn butter. 

FRIED FISH. 

Clean the fish well. Cut up into pieces about two 
by four inches. Lay around in a colander skin down, 
and sprinkle with salt. Let stand an hour, or half a 
day if need be. Have the fat hot in a frying pan. 
Roll in flour or corn meal, fry slowly and cook a long 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 23 

time, till thorouglily done through. It is nice dipped 
in beaten egg and rolled cracker after the flour, but is 
not essential. 

BAKED FISH. 

Clean well, sprinkle with salt for an hour before 
cooking. Tie it with a string, sprinkle flour over it, 
baste with butter, place on a wire gridiron across a 
dripping pan. Allow one and one-half hours. 

STUFFING FOR FISH. 
Mrs. E. B. B. 

One-half cup of fat pork chopped fine. One large 
spoon butter. Parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, salt 
and pepper, a few oysters, two beaten eggs. All 
mixed with bread crumbs. 

A much simpler dressing is good, when the above 
ingredients are not at hand. Bread crumbs are usu- 
ally on hand, and with a little seasoning and mincing, 
serve very well. 

CODFISH STEW. 

Cut up into inch pieces, allowing half a teacup full 
to a pint of milk. Put on the stove in a stew pan or 
spider, well covered with cold water. When it comes 
to a boil drain, and pour in a pint or quart of milk, 
according to size of family. When hot, thicken with 



24 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

a spoonful of flour made smooth with cold milk or 
water. An egg broken in and stirred rapidly at the 
last is an improvement. Season with a teaspoon of 
butter. Serve with baked potatoes. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Larra Lemland. 

One pint salt codfish picked very fine but not fresh- 
ened, two pints whole, raw, peeled potatoes, boil 
together in (cold) water till potatoes are well cooked, 
remove from the fire and drain off all the water, mash 
and beat well, add butter size of an egg, two well- 
beaten eggs, and a little pepper. Mix thoroughly 
with a wooden spoon. Into a frying pan of boiling 
lard or drippings drop a spoonful of the mixture and 
fry brown. Do not mold cakes, but drop them from 
spoon. These fish balls are not only fashionable but 
good. • 

CLAM CHOWDEE. 

Creusa. 

Butter a deep tin basin, put in a layer of grated 
bread crumbs or cracker crumbs. S^Drinkle in pepper 
and bits of butter, then put in /a double layer of 
clams, and season with pepper and butter, another 
layer of crumbs, then of clams, and finish with bread 
crumbs or a layer of soaked crackers. Add a cup of 
milk or water, turn a plate over the basin, and bake 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 25 

three-fourths of an hour. To fifty clams, one-half 
pound soda biscuit and one-fourth pound butter is the 
right proportion. 

CLAM FRITTEKS. 

Take twenty-five clams and stew them in their own 
liquor, salt and pepper them slightly, cook for fifteen 
minutes slowly, drain the clams, chopping them as 
fine as possible, removing all the hard portions first. 
Make a batter of four eggs, with a half pint of sifted 
flour and a pint of milk, get it as smooth as possible, 
mix the clams with it, use butter for fiying. A small 
addition of parsley is excellent. 

FKESH MACKEEEL. 

This is one of the most delicate and dainty dishes 
to be found. It is best broiled. Kub over it melted 
butter or drippings, or olive oil if preferred. Grease 
the bars of the gridiron. Butter it and garnish with 
chopped parsley. 

SALT MACKEEEL. 

They may be cooked in several difierent ways. The 
one most in vogue is boiling. To freshen, put in a 
large pan of water, skin side up, eai'ly in the evening. 
Before bedtime change the water, and in the morning 
rinse in clear water. Boil about five minutes in a 



26 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

frying pan. Take up carefully on a platter. Have 
ready in a basin a cup of cream or rich milk with a 
spoon of butter, heated, and pour over. 

SALT MACKEEEL. 

Put half a cup of vinegar in the spider with a 
little water. Boil the mackerel in it. Serve with 
slices of lemon. 

SALT MACKEREL. 

Mrs. L. S. H. 

After freshening, hang up for a day or two, or 
until perfectly dry. Then put in a dry tin and set in 
the oven for ten minutes. It will be found cooked 
through. Serve with drawn butter. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Mrs. M. A. S. 

Chop lobster up fine. Chop some lettuce fine, 
mix, season with pepper, salt, mustard and vinegar. 
If lettuce is not to be had, use fine white cabbage. 

PICKLED EISH. 

Stella. 

Spice the vinegar as for cucumbers, put your fish 
in, and let them boil slowly for a few minutes, until 
done, without breaking, then set them away for sev- 
eral weeks, and the bones will be entirely destroyed. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 27 

[The following very nice recipes for cooking fish 
were procured from Miss Juliet Corson at her cooking 
lessons, and are published by her consent. They 
may be safely relied upon:] 

BOILED PIKE WITH EGG SAUCE. 

Any fish will do. After it is dressed, tie it in the 
form of a circle by putting its tail into its mouth, 
and take a stitch with a trussing needle in its head 
and tail to hold it in place. To two quarts of water 
put half a cup of vinegar, a teaspoon of whole cloves, 
same of whole peppers, a bay leaf. Half a lemon 
sliced is a nice addition, and a tablespoon of salt. 
Put over in cold water and boil till the fins pull off 
easily. The skin may be easily removed if desired. 
Serve with egg sauce, made by adding hard boiled 
eggs cut up in small pieces to a white sauce. Pour 
the sauce inside the circle of fish. Lay a sprig of 
parsley on top of one side of the fish, and a few 
slices of lemon at the side on the platter. 

HALIBUT— CKEOLE STYLE. 

Get a thick, square piece of halibut, or other fish 
if preferred. Wash it and lay it on a baking dish. 
Season with salt and pepper. Chop a clove of white 
garlic about the size of a bean, and strew over the 
fish, then put on a cup of canned or fresh tomatoes. 



28 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

Bake until tlie flakes separate. Disli up without 
breaking. The combination of garlic and tomatoes 
gives the name Creole to a dish. 

BAKED FISH WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Take a tablespoon of butter and a tablespoon of 
flour, mix in a saucepan over the fire, add either milk 
or water till a pint has been used. Season with salt 
and pepper. Take any kind of baked fish, remove 
the bones and skin, put in a balling dish, cover with 
the sauce, and dust with cracker dust. Bake a deli- 
cate brown. 

TO FEY SMELTS. 

Dry on a towel. Dip in milk, then in cracker 
dust, then in beaten egg, then in cracker dust again, 
and the dust will all stay on. Fry in hot fat. 

SHAD ROE WITH OYSTERS. 

Fish spawn, especially the shad, is a delicacy greatly 
prized by epicures. Wash and wipe, fry in hot fat in 
a frying pan on both sides. Season. It takes fifteen 
or twenty minutes to cook. Dish up on a platter and 
place around it a row or double row of plain fried 
oysters. Put a bunch of parsley in the center, and 
half a lemon with the peel cut in saw teeth, and the 
eflfect is very pretty. 



AJSTD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 29 

BOILED FISH WITH HOLLAND AISE SAUOE. 

A thin, long fish like a pike is best for boiling. 
Do not have it split open, but draw it at the gills. A 
large fish should be put over in cold water, but a 
small one in boiling water, for the reason that a fish 
cooks so quickly that almost as soon as it touches the 
boiling water it is done; and if a large one were put 
on in boiling water the outside would be done and 
the inside raw. If you have no fish kettle, wrap in 
a cloth. Sew the fish very securely in the shape of a 
letter S, by drawing cord through it and fastening 
tightly. When cooked, and strings loosened, it will 
retain its shape, and is exceedingly pretty to look at. 
Pour the sauce around it on the platter, and put a 
sprig of parsley at the side. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

For each pint use one tablespoon each of butter 
and fiour, mix in a saucepan over the fire, and gradu- 
ally add boiling water. Stir into this the yolks of 
three eggs, a tablespoon of lemon juice or vinegar, 
three tablespoons salad oil, and a little mustard, if 
liked. 

FISH OKOQUETTES. 

Stir together in a saucepan over the fire a table- 
spoon each of flour and butter. Add either water or 



30 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

milk, making a thick sauce. This quantity is for a 
pint of cold flakes of fish. Let the sauce boil up, 
season with salt and pepper, put in the cold fish and 
scald up, then remove and stir into it the yolks of 
two or three eggs. E.ub a deep plate with salad oil, 
and pour the mixture in and let get thoroughly cold. 
Then make up into cork-shaped rolls. Wet the hands 
to prevent sticking. Roll in sifted bread crumbs, 
dip in beaten egg, then again in bread crumbs, 
and fry in smoking hot fat, like doughnuts, until a 
delicate brown. Take out of the fat with a skimmer, 
and lay on a brown paper an instant to absorb the 
fat. A teaspoon of onion chopped fine and fried in 
the butter before the sauce is made, imparts a nice 
flavor to the croquettes. A perfect croquette is semi- 
liquid in the center. Melted butter is not so good as 
oil for greasing the dish, as it will not prevent stick- 
ing. The finer the cracker dust the more easily the 
croquettes are prepared, and the nicer they will fry. 
They should be rolled and sifted. 

TURBANS OF FISH. 

Flounders are best. Cut down the middle of the 
fish till the bone is reached, then cut the fillet or strip 
out from the side, avoiding the bone. Lay the fillet 
on the board, remove from the skin by turning the 
blade of the knife between the flesh and skin, and 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 31 

keeping it perfectly parallel witli tlie board, and tliiis 
cutting and separating tlie skin and flesh. After 
cutting tlie entire fisli into fillets, roll each one up 
and fasten with a broom straw. These little rolls are 
called Turbans. Thej are nice stuffed with highly 
seasoned soaked bread. If they are not stuffed, spread 
some butter on the bottom, of the pan, but no water. 
Cook in the oven only long enough for the flakes to 
separate. They are to be lifted out and placed on 
tartar sauce. For Tartar Sauce, see "Sauces and 
Catsups." 

POTTED FISH. 

Kemove the fins and head of the fish, clean well, 
cut in slices an inch thick, pack it in a little jar hav- 
ing a cover, in layers, and between the layers put 
whole cloves, whole peppers, salt, some blades of 
mace, using about a teaspoon each of cloves and 
pepper, two blades of mace, a bay leaf, tablespoon of 
salt. When all is used, cover with vinegar and water, 
half and half. Put over it a buttered paper, or else 
fasten the jar cover on with paste. Put in a hot 
oven and bake four or five hours. The bones will 
have entirely disappeared. Eat cold or hot. 

BEOILED FISH. 

To broil a shad or any other fish, grease the bars of 
the broiler well. Put the inside to the fire first. The 



32 MBS. owenb' cook book 

back "bone is easily removed by running a knife along 
under it, and tbe long bones can be loosened and 
taken out, one or more at a time, with a little knifie. 
after the back bone is cut away from tbem. Let 
brown witliout burning, till the flakes separate. Turn 
the skin part to the fire just long enough to brown. 
Season either before or after cooking. 



OYS'tERS. 

Use the very largest for frying, the medium for 
scallops and broiling, small for soup, and very small 
for raw. Every oyster should be looked at that no 
bit of shell remain attached to it. This is a very 
important matter, and should not be neglected. 

A very pretty center piece for a table at an enter- 
tainment or gathering of any kind, is a large block 
of ice on a handsome platter, with a center melted 
out and filled with raw oysters. Garnish the edge 
with slices of lemon, and green sprigs may decorate 
the bides if desired. 

OTSTEK FRICASSEE. 

Juliet Corson. 

A tablespoon each of butter and flour mixed in a 
saucepan over the fire till a smooth paste is formed, 



USD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 33 

then add the oyster liquor strained. A little water 
may be added if necessary. Season with salt and 
pepper, a very little nnimeg, boil up, add the oysters 
and cook till the edges curl. Remove from the fire 
and stir in the yolks of three raw eggs, thre6 table- 
spoons salad oil, one tablespoon vinegar or lemon 
juice, and one tablespoon chopped parsley. Serve. 

MOBILE BOAST OYSTERS. 

Use deep oyster shells, place them in a tin in the 
oven, and heat so hot that they begin to scale off. 
Put a half teaspoon of butter and a pinch of salt and 
pepper in each shell, drop an oyster in each, turn it 
over and serve in the shell. If not quite done, set in 
the oven for a minute. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

To the liquor of one quart of oysters add a quart 
of water. Let it boil. Skim, season with a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, good piece of butter, add the oysters. 
Let boil up once, put in salt and serve. 

YIRGINIA OYSTER STEW. 

Take a quart of oysters, strain the liquor off, and 

put it over to boil. Take the yolks of three hard 

boiled eggs and one-half teaspoon mustard, make into 

a smooth paste with one tablespoon or more of salad 

9 



84 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

oil. Add one cup of tlie boiling liquor, stir well and 
keep warm. To th? remaining liquor add the oysters 
and cook till tlie edges curl. Pour part of the liquor 
in the oysters over toast, let the remainder be with 
the oysters, and add to it the egg salad, and seasoning 
of salt, pepper or sauces to suit the taste. Serve the 
toast with the oysters. Much nicer than crackers. 

OYSTEE STEW. 

Three pints of oysters. Put the liquor in a stew 
pan, let it boil up, skim carefully, put in a quart or 
more of milk, let it come to a boil, add the oysters, 
having looked them over and removed every bit of 
shell. The moment they curl up remove from the 
fire and salt to taste. Season well with butter. Serve 
in hot soup scallops. 

FRIED OTSTEES. 

Only the large selects are fit for frying. Dry them 
on a folded towel. Allow six eggs to a quart. Eoll 
cracker very fine and put salt and pepper in it. Beat 
eggs very light, dip an oyster in the cracker, then in 
the egg, then in the cracker again, and fry in plenty 
of hot butter and lard mixed; or better still, in olive oil. 

STEAMED OYSTEES IN THE SHELL. 

"Wash well and lay in a steamer. When they are 
cooked enough, the shell will open. They may be 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 35 

turned into hot dishes or served in the shells. To be 
seasoned by the consumer. 

STEAMED OTSTEES. 

Take select oysters, put in a round vegetable dish, 
season with salt, pepper and butter, set in a steamer 
over boiling water, and steam till they begin to curl. 
Yery fine. 

SCALLOPED OYSTEKS. 

A layer of rolled cracker in a buttered pudding 
dish, then a layer 6f oysters with seasoning of butter, 
pepper and salt. Repeat till the dish is full, with 
crumbs on top. Pour on the liquor mixed with a 
little milk. A beaten egg with milk is nice to put 
over the top. Cover and bake about half an hour. 
Remove cover and brown before sending to table. 

OYSTER SAUCE WITH TUREIEY. 

A pint of oysters cut up small and boiled up in 
their own liquor, add a cup of cream, tablespoon of 
flour made smooth with part of the cream; salt, pep- 
per and butter. 

CREAM OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 

Pour into your saucepan a cup of hot water, another 
of milk, and one of thick" cream with a little salt. 
Set the saucepan into the kettle of hot water until it 



86 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

just boils, when stir in two tablespoons of bntter, and 
two heaping tablespoons of rice flour, corn starch, or 
arrow root, wet up with a little cold milk. Have your 
oyster shells washed and buttered (clam shells are 
more roomy) and a fine large oyster laid in each one. 
Arrange them closely in a large baking pan, propping 
them up with pebbles or bits of shell, and fill up each 
shell with the prepared cream, having stirred and 
beaten it well first. Bake five or six minutes in a 
hot oven until brown, and serve in the shell. 

STUFFED OTSTEES. 
Chop fine a dozen oysters, mix with them the 
beaten yolk of one egg, and thicken with bread 
crumbs, a tablespoon of thick cream, salt and pepper 
to taste. Fill the shells, rounding them nicely on the 
top. Brown in a quick oven. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters and add to it 
whole pepper, allspice, a few sticks of mace, and salt. 
When the liquor boils drop in the oysters and boil 
them one minute. Then take them out quickly and 
cool them. Add half as much vinegar as liquor, boil 
a few minutes and pour over the oysters. 

NEW WAT OF COOKING OYSTERS. 
Take mashed potatoes, mix a can of oysters with 
the potatoes, and with a knife cut the mass up fine. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 37 

Add one-half pound of rolled crackers. Season witli 
butter, pepper and salt, and moisten the whole with 
oyster juice. Take little pats of this, roll them in 
powdered cracker crumbs and fry till brown in butter, 
and the result when served warm is delicious. 



STEWED OTSTEKS WITH CELEKY. 

In a large stewpan put a pint of strong and clear 
broth, made of the cuts of beef. Instead of milk 
and water, or milk even, as the prevailing practice is, 
use, only the richest and sweetest of cream. Of this 
cream add one pint to the same quantity of the best 
of beef broth. Also four ounces of the most excel- 
lent table butter, three teaspoons of salt, two of white 
pepper, as much more of ground mace, and a tea- 
spoon of extract of pelery. If the celery is to be 
had in stalk, chop up fine and throw in. ISTo more 
delicate or healthy flavor can be added to any stew, 
soup or broth than this exquisite vegetable. Now 
set to cooking, and while on the fire dredge in finely 
powdered cracker dust and a. little of the best com 
starch flour, until thickened to your taste. Have 
ready, parboiled, not in water, but in their own juice, 
fifty of the same oysters in a hot tureen. Pour over 
these parboiled oysters the sauce compounded as 
above, and serve while still scalding hot. 



88 ME8. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

STGGESTIONS. 

Peanut oil or cotton seed oil may be procured much 
more cheaply than olive oil, and answers every purpose. 

In cases where butter is given to be used with 
oysters, many prefer olive oil. Use but half the 
quantity that you would butter. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Make a pie paste for the sides of a large baking 
dish. Take one quart large fresh oysters, season with 
pepper, salt and butter. Take the yolks of three 
hard boiled eggs, chop fine, and mix with grated bread 
crumbs. Sprinkle this over the oysters after putting 
them in the dish. Pour the liquor over, cover with 
pie crust, and bake quickly. 

OYSTER OMELET. 

One dozen large fresh oysters chopped into small 
pieces, half a teaspoon of salt sprinkled on them, and 
then let them stand in their own liquor half an hour. 
Beat six eggs, the yolks and whites apart, the former 
to a firm, smooth paste, the latter to a stifi* froth. 
Add to the yolks a tablespoon of rich, sweet cream, 
pepper and salt in sufficient quantity, and then lightly 
stir the whites in. Put an ounce and a half of butter 
into a hot fiying pan. When it is thoroughly melted 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 39 

and begins to fry, pour in your egg mixture, and add 
as quickly as possible tbe oysters. Do not stir, but 
witb a broad-bladed omelet knife, lift, as the eggs 
set, the omelet from the bottom of the pan, to pre- 
vent its scorching. In five minutes it will be done. 
Place a hot dish bottom upward over the omelet, 
and dexterously turn the pan over with the brown 
side uppermost upon the dish. Eat without delay. 



EGGS. 

BOILED EGGS. 
Use a wire egg-boiler for boiling eggs. Three 
minutes cooks the white about right for soft boiled 
eggs. If put into cold water and let remain to a 
boiling point, they are cooked more evenly than by 
plunging into hot water at first. And it is further 
recommended to pour boiling water on the eggs and 
set the vessel on the hearth for five minutes. 

SCEAMBLED EGGS. 
Put a tablespoon of butter in a frying pan. When 
hot put in the requisite number of eggs beaten lightly. 
Pepper and salt them, and add half a cup of milk to 
a dozen eggs. Stir constantly, and as soon as they 
begin to set, take off and pour out. They must not 
be hard. 



40 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

FKIED HAM A^D EGGS. 

Freshen the ham, if it requires it, by putting it on 
the stove in cold water, and pouring off as soon as it 
comes to a scald. Fry the ham in its own fat, then fry 
the eggs afterwards in the same. Dish up on the same 
platter. 

BEOILED HAM AND EGGS. 

Broil thin slices of ham. Put a bit of butter on 
each piece when done. Poach the eggs in water, and 
lay one neatly on each piece of ham. 

PROPER WAY TO COOK EGGS. 
Butter a tin plate and break in your eggs. Set in 
a steamer, place over a kettle of boiling water and 
steam till the whites are cooked. If broken into patty 
pans they look nicer, by keeping their forms better. 
Or still better, if broken into egg cups and steamed 
until done, they are very nice. Cooked in this way 
there is nothing of their flavor lost. 

BAKED EGGS. 
Take a large platter. Break on it as many eggs as 
you need for your meal, sprinkle over with salt, 
pepper and lumps of butter. Set in the oven, and in 
about five minutes the whites will be set and the eggs 
sufiiciently cooked. A handy way on washing or 
ironing days, when the top of the stove is all in use. 
Try it. 



AUD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 41 

EGG CHOWDER 

Fry tlie pork, cook onions, potatoes, etc., just tlie 
same as for a fish chowder. After everything is done, 
just before you take it off, break in as many eggs as 
there are persons to eat, and let it boil up sufficiently 
to cook them through. I think those who try it will 
like it, and no danger of choking children with bones. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Set some muffin rings in boiling water. Break 
each egg in a ring, and it will take the form of the 
ring, and be much more pleasing to the eye than the 
old way. 

FKIED EGGS. 

Butter some gem irons and break an egg in each 
one and set in the oven, after seasoning with salt and 
pepper. Yery nice. 

PANNED EGGS. 

Make a minced meat of chopped ham, fine bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt, and some melted butter. Moisten 
with milk to a soft paste, and half fill some patty pans 
with the mixture. Break an egg carefully upon the 
top of each. Dust with pepper and salt, and sprinkle 
some finely powdered cracker over all. Set in the 
oven and bake about eight minutes. Eat hot. 



42 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

SCALLOPED EGGS. 

Prepare a cup of thick drawn butter gravy, and a 
dozen liard boiled egg '. Butter a pudding disb and 
place in it a layer of ine bread crumbs moistened 
with milk or broth. Add two beaten eggs to the 
drawn butter. Cut the boiled eggs in slices, dip each 
slice in gravy and place in layers upon the bread 
crumbs. Sprinkle these with cold meat or fowl 
minced fine. Repeat the layers and put over all a 
covering of sifted bread crumbs. Heat well through 
in a moderate oven. 

HOT EGG SALAD. 

Juliet Corson. 
A tablespoon salad oil made hot. Break three eggs 
into it, and stir a little. Season with salt and pepper. 
Turn out as soon as it hardens a trifle, sprinkle over 
the top a tablespoon chopped cucumber, same of 
grated lemon rind, a tablespoon lemon juice and three 
tablespoons salad oil. 

OMELET. 

Mrs. M. A. S. 

For minced ham, veal, beef or tongue. To twelve 

eggs beaten to a froth put three ounces of minced 

meat (add little salt to veal), melt four ounces butter 

and put part with the eggs, the remainder put in a 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 43 

frying pan. When hot, turn in the mixture and stir 
till it begins to set. When brown on the under side 
it is cooked sufficiently. The pan should be small 
enough to have the omelet an inch thick. Place a 
flat dish over the top and turn the frying pan upside 
down when you wish to take it up. 

EGG OMELET. 

Six eggs, six tablesjjoons milk, one tablespoon 
melted butter, and one of flour. Beat well together. 
Turn into a well-buttered and hot frying pan, and 
when the edge begins to cook roll it over and over 
like a jelly roll, and turn out on a hot platter with as 
little handling as possible. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs light, add half a tea- 
spoon of lemon juice, grated lemon, some nutmeg, 
and half a teaspoon of sugar. Beat well and add 
lightly five tablespoons of cream. Butter the omelet 
pan, heat, pour in the eggs and stir in lightly with a 
fork the well-beaten whites. Cook five or six minutes 
in a quick oven. Turn upside down on a hot plate 
and serve instantly. 

Note. — If possible, keep one pan for omelets alone. 

OMELET SACCHAKINE. 

To the yolks of six eggs add a tablespoon of pow- 
dered sugar, and a teaspoon or moTe of some essence. 



44: MKS. OWE^^S' COOK BOOK 

Mix and add carefully to the well-beaten whites. 
Pour into a hot buttered frying pan. As it cooks at 
the edges, lift it with a fork and toss to the center. 
Take up on a hot dish and dust with powdered ^gar. 

OMELET CELESTINE. 

Juliet Corson. 

The same as the above, by adding a couple of 
spoons of currant jelly before taking up. 

OKAKGE OMELET. 

Three eggs, a teaspoon of orange juice, and a tea- 
spoon of grated rind of orange. Beat the yolks and 
whites separately, then add them carefully together 
and put in a buttered heated frying pan 

PICKLED EGGS. 

Boil eggs very hard and remove the shell. Take 
one teaspoon each of cinnamon, allspice and mace, 
put in a little muslin bag in cold water, boil well, and 
if it boils away add enough to make half a pint when 
the spices are taken out. Add one pint of strong 
vinegar, pour over the eggs. If you want them col- 
ored, put in some beet juice. Yery good 

TO KEEP EGGS. 

Take a colander full at a time and pour a teakettle 
full of boiling water over them. I have known eggs 



AlID USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 45 

to be used several montlis after being put up in this 
way, and thej were equal to new laid eggs. They 
should be kept in a cool place. I kept eggs three 
months last winter in an egg case with no preparation 
whatever. The last I used were as good as the first. 
Close contact would have spoiled them. 

TO COLOK EGGS FOE EASTER. 

Wind strips of bright-colored calico around the 
eggs, and then boil in ashes lye; you will find them 
gayly colored. To color them yellow, boil with onion 
skins. 



FOAVLS. 

To singe a fowl pour a few drops of alcohol on a 
plate and burn. Handier than burning a paper. 

To draw a chicken for stuffing, cut a slit under one 
of the legs, so it may be hidden by sewing up. Take 
the crop out from a cut in the back of the neck. 

Rub clear lard, or lay a piece of fat pork over a 
fowl when put to roast.. 

A peeled lemon laid inside of a wild fowl will ab- 
sorb that strong fishy taste if left in for a few hours. 

The giblets of poultry are the head, neck, wings, 
feet, gizzard, heart and liver. 



46 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

KOAST POULTRY. 

If prepared the day before, it will be all the bettei 
seasoned. Half an hour to the pound is a good gen- 
eral rule. Baste frequently. 

FULL DIKECTIONS FOR CUTTING UP A 
CHICKEJS". 

As Demonstrated by Miss Corson in her Cooking Lessons. 

After singeing the fowl, wipe with wet towel. Don't 
wash it, because if it is so dirty as to need washing, 
it is not fit for food ; and, by washing a clean chicken, 
you draw out with the water more or less of the blood 
and, consequently, the nourishment which the chicken 
contains. In order to get as many pieces as possi- 
ble, cut off the wings so that a little piece of the 
breast remains with the wing. Remove the crop by 
cutting the skin at the back of the neck. Cut off the 
neck close to the body. l!^ext take off the wing side- 
bones. Having cut them loose from the backbone, 
bend them toward the front and they will part at the 
joint ; loosen them with the knife. Take off the legs 
next. Instead of making a division between the sec- 
ond joint and drum-stick, cut midway the second 
joint, and then just below the joint, and trim off the 
lower end of the drum-stick. Next cut through the 
side just where the breast-bone joins the ribs. Then 
the breast-bone can be puUed free from the back, and 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 47 

the entrails can be taken out easily witliout breaking, 
wbich is decidedly a consideration, because if, in 
drawing a chicken, tlie entrails are broken, it becomes 
necessary to wasli the chicken very thoroughly, and 
you thus destroy its flavor. Cut off the lower part 
of the breast-bone without splitting it, because, while 
that is a very nice piece, it is apt to be a very small 
one. If there are any pieces of ribs attached to the 
sides of the breast-bone trim them off. Cut the up- 
per part into two pieces right down the middle, or 
into four — down the middle and then each piece in 
two — according to the size of the chicken. Having 
cut up the breast-bone, the entrails are to be taken 
away from the back, cutting around the vent being 
necessary in order to loosen them. The oil bag is of 
course to be removed; the liver also, without break- 
ing the gall, which can be avoided by leaving a little 
piece of the liver attached to it. There are two or 
three ways of preparing the gizzard. Adopt the easiest. 
Instead of taking the trouble,* to split the gizzard, 
and trying to take out the bag of stones within, I 
believe it best to cut from the outside just that por- 
tion of purplish flesh which is used. If there is on 
it any appearance of the contents wash it; not other- 
wise. Now separate the backbone and neck and 
notice the back side-bones, where are located the " oys- 
ters." If the back were split entirely down the 
"oysters" would be cut in two; but cutting off the 



48 ME8. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

end of the backbone tliej are preserved. To some, 
t^ey are tbe cboicest part of the chicken. 

KOAST TUKKET. 

A year old is considered best. After dressing, salt 
and pepper the inside. Take a loaf and a half of 
stale baker's bread for a good sized turkey. Rub fine 
with the hands; cut a large white onion and cook a 
few minutes in butter in a frying pan. Do not brown 
it. Then stir in your bread, one teaspoon salt, ditto of 
pepper, ditto of sage; mix the onion in, and use 
melted butter sufficient to bind it all together; stuff, 
tie the wings and thighs, to keep in place. Salt and 
pepper the outside. Put a cup and a half of water 
in the dripping pan with the turkey. Lay two or 
three pieces of fat pork on the top, or rub well with 
lard. Roast three hours in a moderate oven, with an 
even fire. If oysters are liked, a pint may be chop- 
ped with the di'essing. Lay the giblets by the side 
of the turkey, and when done chop fine, and put in the 
gravy, thickened with a tablespoon of flour. Serve 
with cranberry sauce, celery, turnips, boiled onions, 
or any vegetable, fresh or canned. 

CHICKEN STEW. 

Cut a chicken up small. Boil till tender; make a 
thickening of flour and milk, using a pint of rich 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 49 

milk, or cream, if it is to be had. Season well with 
butter, pepper and salt. Have readj in a tnreen, 
some fresh soda, or baking powder biscuits broken in 
halves. Pour some of the gravy over them, and re- 
serve the remainder to serve with the fowl in a plat- 
ter. Be sure and have plenty of gravy; it will all 
be wanted. 

CHICKIEN PIE. 

Stew chicken till tender. Season well with butter, 
pepper and salt. Thicken the gravy with a table- 
spoon of flour. Have ready some peeled, boiled pota- 
toes. Line the sides of a deep dish with rich crust; 
put in a layer of chicken and a layer of potatoes in 
thick slices. Repeat, and pour over the gravy. Cover 
with the pie-crust. Serve hot. 

CHICKEIT POT PIE. 

Cut up good sized chicken small. Put a smaU 
plate in the bottom of the kettle. Cover the chicken 
well with water. Season high, with butter, pep- 
per and salt. A half hour before it is done, drop 
in small lumps of dough made like biscuit. A quart 
of flour is sufficient for one large chicken. Cover 
closely. Take out with skimmer carefully, and if 
gravy is not thick enough, thicken it with a small 
spoon of flour and water made smooth. Serve with 
mashed potatoes and any vegetables wished. 
4 



50 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

SMOTHEEED CHICKEN. 

Cut your cliickens open at the back after dressing 
them. Sprinkle salt and pepper and little lumps of 
butter over. Put them in a baking pan with another 
over, and bake one hour. Baste often, with butter. 
(Delicious.) 

FRICASEE CHICEIE]^. 

Cut every joint separate, the back in two, and the 
breast in three or more. Stew in water enough to 
cover them at first, until the meat is very tender, 
and only about a teacup of water is left in the 
pot. Add £v large cup of sweet milk, in which a tea- 
spoon of flour is smoothly mixed; season with salt 
and 23ej)per, and boil a few moments longer; if you 
add, about half an hour before serving up, a couple 
of slices of salt pork in fine strips, you will find it 
an improvement, and not fatty, unless the pork is 
boiled too lonor. 



^&* 



FKIED CHICKEK 

Cut young tender chickens at the joints. Season 
with salt and pepper, dip into flour and fry slowly in 
butter and lard until browned on both sides. When 
done, lay on a hot platter and turn in cream or milk, 
and thicken with a spoon of flour; pour over the 
chicken. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 51 

PKAIEIE CHICKEN. 

Cut open ; lay on tliem thin slices of salt pork and 
put in a dripping pan and cook in tlie oven. Serve 
with thickened gravy. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Parboil for two hours, at least. Then stuff with 
seasoned mashed potatoes, and roast. Baste often. 

GERMAN RELISH. 

Take a nice fat goose, turkey or chicken, take off 
the loose fat of the goose, season with a little salt and 
pepper, boil till nearly tender, with just water enough 
to cook it, then put in one pint good cider vinegar, 
then boil till very tender, like pigs' feet; then pack 
in stone crock, leaving the bones in with the meat. 
It is a very dainty relish. To be sliced up cold. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

If parboiled for an hour, or even longer, the strong 
taste is lessened. Baste same as turkey. 

STUFFING FOR DUCKS. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

Half pound of fat pork chopped fine; eight rolled 
crackers; one egg; one onion; one pint milk; sage, 
pepper and salt. 



52 MKS. o wens' oook book 

DIKECTIONS FOE BONING A CHICKEN 
OE TUEKEY. 

R. E., in Household. 

"Witli a sharp pen-knife, cut the skin off your 
whole fowl down the back from neck to oil-bag, and 
cut and scrape off close to the bones, all the meat and 
skin; scrape, after jointing the thigh, leg and wing 
bones, the last joint of the wing cut off, and be care- 
ful of the skin of the second joint. When you have 
removed the skeleton and entrails, save all of the 
giblets. Make an ordinary filling of bread and but- 
ter minced fine with the giblets, and the dark meat 
of the fowls, an4 the light too, if desired; but, it is 
nice to leave the light for chicken salad. Fill out 
wherever the bones have been taken out, and shape 
up nicely, sewing the skin all down the back. "When 
hot, draw out the threads, handle carefully, and serve 
either hot or cold. Any kind of filling may be nsed. 
The bones may be boiled up for soup. 

DIEECTIONS FOE BONED CHICKEN. 

Juliet Corson. 

Use two-thirds as much force meat, as the chicken 
weighs. Lean veal, and lean fresh pork choj)ped fine, 
and for each pound, take one whole egg, one teaspoon 
of cloves and allspice mixed, one teaspoon salt. In- 
stead of the veal, another fowl's flesh may be used. 



AND TJSEFTJL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 53 

After tlie bones liave all been removed, and tbe fowl 
is laid flat down, spread on a layer of force meat, then 
strips of fat pork and the liver, then a layer of mush- 
rooms. Then run a string around tlie edges of the 
chicken and draw it up like a wallet. Having sewed 
up the ends, then sew the cut that was first made 
down the back. Then roll it up in a tight bundle in 
a towel. Tie the ends like a sack of flour and tie two 
or three tapes around the middle as tight as you pos- 
sibly can. Boil half an hour to the pound. Take 
out of the towel, wipe off, wrap in a clean towel and 
lay on a platter, put another over and place a weight 
on. The easiest fowl to bone is a year old turkey. 

CUEKY OF DUCK. 

Juliet Corson. 
A GENUINE CUKRY OF THE EAST INDIES. 

Cut the ducks up in small joints. Wipe with a 
wet towel. If lean, put a teaspoon of butter in a 
saucepan and brown them in it. But if fat,- as is 
generally the case, no surplus fat will be required. 
Cut up a medium sized onion and brown with them. 
Stir in a tablespoon of flour, and as soon as that is 
well mixed in and brown, cover with hot water, and 
season with salt and pepper. A cup of grated cocoa- 
nut and a sour apple peeled and sliced must be added. 
Cook till the ducks are tender. It will require from 



54 MKS, OWEXS' COOK BOOK 

half an hour to two hours, according to the age. 
When tender, add a tablespoon of curry powder. 
Serve with boiled rice. The rice may be placed 
around the edge of the platter, and the curry in the 
center, or it may be taken up on a separate dish. 

CHICKEN PATE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 
Two chickens boiled tender. Eemove bones and 
skin and chop fine. Season with salt, butter and pep- 
per. Add broth to make it moist, and press into a 
mold. "When cold, slice thin. 

PKESSED YEAL OR CHICKEN. 

Stew slowly four pounds veal, or two chickens cut 
up small until the meat drops from the bone; then 
take out and chop fine. Let the liquor boil down to 
a cup full. Put in a lump of butter size of an egg, 
a tablespoon pepjDer, little allspice, and a beaten egg; 
stir through the meat; slice a hard boiled egg, lay in 
your mould and press in the meat. When served, 
garnish with celery tops, or sprigs of parsley. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 
Mrs. M. A. S. 

Boil two chickens that weigh about five pounds. 
When tender, pick in small pieces. Take a coflee cup 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 55 

of chopped celery, and make the following dressing: 
Take eight hard boiled eggs and chop fine, two table- 
spoons olive oil, or melted butter, two teaspoons mixed 
mustard, two teaspoons salt, one of pepper, one 
tumbler of vinegar; mix, and pour over. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Joint two chickens, weighing between three and 
four pounds each, cover them with boiling water, set 
on the fire where they will merely simmer until ten- 
der, remove from the fire, and let them remain in the 
broth until cold; , this renders the meat juicy. It is 
best to cook the chickens the day before the salad is 
required. Take both the dark and white meat for 
your salad, cut into pieces nearly an inch square, and 
one-quarter of an inch thick. To prepare the dress- 
ing for the salad, take a tablespoon of fresh butter, 
rub it to a cream with the yolks of two hard boiled 
eggs ; gradually add two tablespoons of salad oil, one 
of French mustard, a desertspoon of powdered sugar ; 
a teaspoon of salt, half a teaspoon of black pepper, as 
much cayenne as will lie on a penknife jDoint, the yolks 
of two fresh eggs, uncooked, and six tablespoons of 
vinegar. Next fill your salad bowl with two heads 
of celery, cut fine — one head or bunch of celery in- 
cludes three roots — two large pickled cucumbers, cut 
in very small slices, the whites of the boiled eggs 



56 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

also cut very fine. Some like two tablespoons of 
capers, and half a dozen olives. Now add the chicken 
and the dressing ; mix thoroughly with a wooden fork 
or spoon, and as vinegar is of different strength, more 
may have to be added. 



MEATS. 

If beef is good it will be fine grained, smooth, 
bright red and fat. 

Good veal flesh is dry, firm and white, with kid- 
neys covered with fat. 

The flesh of good mutton is dark red, with firm 
white fat. 

Fresh killed lamb is pale red, with bluish veins in 
the neck. 

Pork should be rejected if there are kernels in the 
fat. The skin should be smooth and thin. 

The choicest cuts for roasting, are the sixth, seventh 
and eighth ribs. 

If a roast is rolled by the butcher have him send 
home the bones for soup. 



AND trSEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 57 

If it is necessary to freshen hani or salt pork it is 
recommended very strongly to put them in milk and 
water for several hours. Sour milk will answer as 
well as sweet. Rinse after taking out. This also 
applies to salt mackerel. 

K meat is eaten when first killed it will be tender. 
If a little time elapses the muscles stiffen, and it will 
be tough. If more time elapses, the muscles relax, 
and it will be tender again. 

Toung meat of all kinds, should be cooked very 
thoroughly, to be healthy. It offers less resistance 
to mastication, hence will be less liable to be digested 
properly. Older and tougher meat offering more 
resistance, will, of necessity, be better masticated 
and better incorporated with the saliva; hence, will 
be better digested. 

In cold weather, great care should be taken to heat 
plates, to serve at table. More especially, when mut- 
ton is used. Many a good dinner has been spoiled 
by a showing of cold mutton tallow on a still colder 
plate. If there is no warming oven to the stove, let 
them set in hot water for a few minutes. 

[All of the following dishes credited to Miss Juliet 
Corson, that pioneer in culinary art in this country, 
are very choice, and may well be adopted by families 
in general. The writer feels deeply indebted to Miss 



58 MRS. o wens' cook book 

Corson for many valuable liints that are of service in 
everyday cooking:] 

Fresh meat should be put to cook in boiling water, 
and if more water is needed in the pot, let it be boil- 
ing when added. 

Salt meat must be put over in cold water, that the 
salt may be extracted in cooking. Remove the scum 
as soon as it rises. 

To be tender, meat should cook very gently; hard 
boilino^ tono:hens it. The tono-hest meat can be made 
tender by boiling it a long time, or baking it in a 
covered dish in the oven. 

Before cooking mutton, take a sharp knife and 
loosen the thin outside skin and remove entirely. 
The oil of the wool penetrates tlirough the pores of 
the skin, and from this comes .that strong, woolly taste, 
rendering mutton so objectionable. Use plenty of its 
own fat to cook it in. 

OLD FASHIONED BOILED DmiSTEE. 

Put in a large kettle of cold water the corned beef 
soon after breakfast (if for noon dinner). About 10 
o'clock, put in the salt pork, in a solid piece, one or 
two pounds, according to size of family. At the 
same time, wash beets very carefully and put in. If 
they are very large, put them in an hour earlier. At 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 59 

11 o'clock, put in peeled turnips, cut in three or four 
pieces. Divide a head of cabbage in four parts, 
lengthwise, and put in at the same time, with good 
sized peeled potatoes, allowing a good half hour for 
them to boil. Beets will not injure the looks of the 
other vegetables if the skin is not broken. When 
done, put them in cold water, to remove the skin, cut 
lengthwise in three or four pieces, and dish ujd. Take 
up the cabbage in a vegetable dish, after draining well. 
A platter is scarcely large enough to hold such a 
variety of meat and vegetables, and it is unhandy to 
cut uj) the meat; hence, it is better to dish up in 
separate dishes. A piece of red pepper cooked with 
a boiled dinner improves it. Grated horse-radish, or 
any bottled sauce, should be served with boiled din- 
ner. The best dessert with a boiled dinner is a 
boiled Indian pudding. 

POT KOAST OF BEEF, 

Get a solid piece from the round, about five pounds. 
Put in a medium sized kettle, that can set in the 
oven. Put it over the fire in hot water, to cover it. 
Boil slowly for three hours or more; season well; 
then remove the meat, and thicken the gravy with 
flour and water. Put the meat back in; set in the 
oven; put a cover over and let cook slowly till needed; 
two hours will not hurt. This mode of cooking will 



60 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

make tlie toughest beef tender. Serve in a large 
platter with part of the gravy; but dish up the 
greater part in a gravy dish. 

PAESNIP STEW. 

One pound of salt pork sliced; boil an hour or 
more; scrape and cut in lengthwise quarters five or 
six parsnips, add to the pork, and after boiling a half 
hour, add a few potatoes, and let all cook until the 
potatoes are done. The water should cook down to 
about a pint, when ready to dish up. (Excellent.) 

BLAKQUETTE OF LAMB, 

OE WHITE STEW. 

Have the lamb cut in pieces and put over in water 
to parboil. If any scum rises, skim off. "When it 
has boiled, take out and wipe with a wet towel if any 
scum appears. Strain the broth. Use it for a white 
sauce, beginning by putting a tablespoon of butter 
and a tablespoon of flour in a saucepan over the fire; 
stir together until well mixed, and gradually add the 
broth in which the meat was parboiled. Season the 
same with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Add the meat 
and cook until the lamb is tender ; stir in it the yolks 
of two eggs and a tablespoon of chopped parsley 



AlID USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 61 

BOILED MUTTON. 

A leg of mutton boiled is a savory, juicy meat. 
I^t the water cook down to sufficient for gravy. Boil 
some rice, and eat as a vegetable, with boiled mutton ; 
or, coarse boiled hominy is equally as good. With 
lamb or mutton, the Southerners eat currant jelly 
with a sprinkling of mustard, and consider it exceed- 
ingly palatable. 

MACAEONI MUTTON. 

Some slices of mutton, one-quarter pound of maca- 
roni, sauce of any kind, pej)per, salt, a tablespoon of 
vinegar, and a little water. Put all together in a 
stewpan, keep the lid on, and stew gently for an hour 
or an hour and a half. 

LAMB STEWED WITH GKEEN PEAS. 

Cut the scrag or breast of lamb in pieces and put 
into a stewpan with just enough water to cover it. 
Cover it closely and let it stew for twenty minutes. 
Take off the scum; add a tablespoon of salt and a 
quart of shelled peas; cover and let them stew for 
half an hour; mix a tablespoon of flour and butter 
and stir in and let it simmer ten minutes; then serve. 
If you mix the flour with cream it makes it better. 
Yeal is nice cooked in this way, with half a dozen 
small new potatoes added with the peas. 



62 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

PEESSED BEEF. 

Buy a sliank of beef. Boil till it falls from the 
bone. Remove every piece of bone, boil down a lit- 
tle longer. Season well witb pe^iper and salt, and a 
bit of sage, if liked. Pour into a form. Excellent 
cold. 

STUFFED PEESSED MEAT. 

Mrs. A. S. J. 

Take a large steak, sjiread it witb well seasoned 
dressing; roll up, sew it in a stout bag and boil tbree 
hours in salted water. Take it out, put a weight on 
it and press until cold; then slice. 

TO STUFF A HAM. 

Boil it very slowly. If it boils hard, it will be in 
strings. Let simmer all day, if necessary; then skin 
and remove extra fat. Make stuffing of bread crumbs 
moistened in water and seasoned with pepper, butter, 
parsley, celery, or any other, if preferred. Cut the 
bone out with a sharp knife. Take yolks of two or 
three hard boiled eggs, mix with the ham-water 
enough to moisten ; spread over the ham, grate bread 
crumbs over all, and brown. Ornament with slices 
of hard boiled egg, fimciful cuts of pickled beets, 
cloves or green parsley. Slice cold. Delicious for a 
cold collation. 



AlTD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 68 

COLD BOILED HAM. 

In boiling ham or corned beef to eat cold, it is far 
better if let remain in the water until cold. Slice 
on a platter, and place slices of hard boiled egg 
around ham, or slices of lemon. For corned beef, 
garnishes of pickle are nice. 

KOAST BEEF. 

Put in a dripping pan without water, into a very 
hot oven for the first half hour, that the outside may 
sear over and keep the juices inside. When half 
done, the oven heat may be lessened, and the meat 
salted and peppered. Pour in water and thicken for 
gravy when the meat is done. Fifteen minutes to 
the pound, if wished rare in the center, or twenty 
minutes will make it well done. Cranberry sauce or 
jelly, turnips, celery, or any kind of canned vegetables 
may be served with roast beef. 

YOEKSHIKE PUDDING. 

When roasting a piece of beef set up on a cricket 
or muffin rings, so that the juice will drop into the 
pan below. Three-quarters of an hour before it is 
done, mix up the following and pour into the pan 
under the meat : One pint of milk, four eggs, beaten 
very light, one teaspoon salt, two cups of flour. Cut 
in pieces and serve with the roast. 



64 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

Juliet Corson. 

To mate a large piece off the round tender, make 
holes with a steel or sharp instrument, and insert 
in each one a little strip of salt fat pork; run the 
strip with the grain. Let each end project; then put 
the meat in a bowl, and with it, a teaspoon of whole 
cloves, same of pepper corns, a bay leaf, half a teacup 
of carrots sliced, same of turnip and onion; not any 
salt; cover with vinegar and water. Let stand sev- 
eral hours; all the better if it stand two or three 
days. If the fibre is tender, take it out of the pickle, 
fry it brown in a pot in drippings ; then put in two 
tablespoons of flour, turn it over and over. "When 
brown, cover with hot water and cook slowly. Salt 
it when half done. A half hour to the pound usually 
suffices. 

POEK EOAST. 

Season well and roast slowly at first, allowing fally 
half an hour to a pound. Put some water in the pan 
and baste often. Cook very thoroughly. Fried cab- 
bage is very good with pork. Any tart sauce may be 
used, or any canned vegetable. Turnips go nicely; 
celery always admissible. 

Fried apples are also very nice; make gravy after 
pouring off the sm-plus from the top of the drippings. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HESTTS. 65 

YEAL KOAST. 

Same as pork; be sure and cook well through. 
Squash is a palatable vegetable to serve. Stewed 
tomatoes are also good; currant jelly is always nice. 

MUTTON EOAST. 

Same as pork, but is not objectionable if a little 
rare. Mint sauce made by mixing half a cup of 
chopped spear mint, with half a cup of vinegar and 
a tablespoon of sugar is used by those who like it 
with mutton. Serve turnip with mutton. 

LEG OF LAMB TO ROAST. 

All lamb should be very well cooked, and not put 
too near the fire at first; from eighteen to twenty 
minutes to the pound before a clear but not fierce 
heat. It may be served with spinach, peas, or aspar- 
agus. 

ENGLISH POEK PIE. 

Make a pie-crust, not very rich, and put around 
the sides of a deep pie dish. In the bottom, and 
above, put layers of thin sliced bacon, thin sliced 
potatoes, onions chopped or sliced very fine; lean 
fresh pork cut into small pieces. Season with pep- 
per, salt and sage. Fill the dish with any good gravy 
left from roasts, or with water thickened for the occa- 



66 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

sion, with some butter added. Cover with cniet, and 
bake about an hour and a half. Cover the pie with 
thick paper if it gets too brown. 

BEEF HEAET. 

Clean the heart well and stuff with bread crumbs, 
well seasoned, and mixed with water enough to 
moisten. Baste often with the liquor from it. 

BEEF HEAET EQUAL TO TONGUE. 
A. G. S. 

In the forenoon, put your beef heart into a weak 
brine. In the evening, change to another brine. In 
the morning, put to cook in boiling water and cook 
fully three hours. "When tender, have ready a dress- 
ing of bread crumbs and stuff it. Put it in an oven 
twenty minutes, to cook the dressing. Let get cold, 
and slice very thin; season with a little salt and pep- 
per, if necessary. 

BEEF STEW. 

Order two pounds of beef or veal cut up small for 
a stew. Cheap cuts answer every purpose. Cook 
two or three hours. Put in some potatoes peeled and 
cut in halves, and some onions, if they are liked. 
Season well; skim out into a platter; thicken the 
gravy and pour over. This will give a good dinner 
to six or eight persons. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 67 

MOCK DUCK. 

Spread dressing, as for turkey, on a thick round of 
beef steak; roll up, tie and roast. Serve with gravy. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHEEED WITH ONIONS. 

Cut up six onions very fine; put them into a sauce- 
pan with one cup of hot water, about two ounces of 
good butter, some pepper and salt; dredge in a little 
flour. Let it stew until the onions are quite soft. 
Broil the steak according to directions; put it into 
the saucepan with the onions and let it simmer about 
ten minutes. 

The rules adopted by the celebrated Beefsteak Club 
started in England in 1734, for cooking steak: 

Pound well your meat till the fibres break, 
Be sure that next you have, to broil the steak, 
Good coal in plenty ; nor a moment leave, 
But turn it over this way, and then that ; 
The lean should be quite rare — not so the fat 
The platter now and then the juice receive, 
Put on your butter, place it on your meat, 
Salt, pepper, turn it over, serve, and eat. 

FEIED STEAK. 

A favorite way of cooking beefsteak in the South 
is to take a piece off the round, fry it in a frying pan, 
in its own fat if suMcient, in drippings il noi, and 



68 MRS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

when done, pour in water and thicken with flour, and 
make gravj to pour over the whole in a platter. 

BROILED STEAK. 
Heat and grease the bars of the gridiron; have a 
bright fire, with live coals, at the top. Trim the 
steak nicely, a porter-house or sirloin, for broiling; 
cut off the little tough end of the porter-house. It 
will do better service in the soup kettle. Lay the 
steak on the gridiron, cover, and as soon as seared, 
turn over and sear the other side. Turn again during 
the cooking; take up on a hot platter. Season with 
butter, pepper and salt. A sprig of parsely, and a 
few slices of lemon laid at the edges garnish it nicely. 
A bit of onion rubbed over the platter before taking 
up the steak, gives a delicate flavor that is delicious, 
without any of the offensiveness that the onion taste 
imparts, if used more 'largely. 

EOUND STEAK. 

Anna G. S. 
First pound it very thoroughly. Cut it into con- 
venient pieces for serving. Season some flour with 
plenty of salt and pepper, and roll the steak in it, as 
you would fish; have your skillet hot, with some 
fryings in, lay in the steaks, brown slightly on both 
sides; pour in a little water and keep enough in the 
frying pan to prevent the meat from jburning. Cook 
half an hour, and you will have a juicy steak. 



Ain5 USEFUL -HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 69 

SPAEERIBS. 

Spareribs, as thej are sold in the city, are so very 
spare, that it is an improvement to roast them with 
a dressing of bread crumbs. Lay some ribs in the 
di-ipping pan; salt and pepper; spread over them a 
dressing of crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt and 
sage; then lay on some more spareribs; put a pint of 
water in the pan; season; roast till well done; pour 
off the top for fryings; add more water and thicken 
for gravy. Fried apples are a nice accompaniment 
to spareribs. 

EOAST PIG. 

Scald and clean the pig carefully. Make a dress- 
ing of bread crumbs, sage, salt and pepper; stuff; 
sew up; fasten the legs back so that the under part 
will crisp nicely. Dredge with flour and put into a 
hot oven. Baste frequently with melted butter. 
When done, pour off the fat from the top of the 
drippings; add water to the remainder, and thicken 
for gravy. Serve in a gravy dish, and stand pig up 
on a platter and garnish with green parsley or celery 
tops. 

BEEF TOI^GUE. 

If it is corned it should be soaked a few hours be- 
fore boiling. Cook till done, then peel. If it is to 
be served hot, make a sauce of a can of tomatoes, an 



70 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

omon, a carrot, salt and pepper, a spoon of flour -well 
cooked and strained, and poured over. If too be 
eaten cold, put a weight on it, when ready to serve, 
cut in very thin slices. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Place in a dripping pan; season well, and set in a 
hot oven. This is the nicest way we have ever cooked 
mutton chops. The gravy may be thickened or not, 
just as you prefer. It is not necessary to turn them. 

YEAL CUTLETS. 

Fry until pretty well done; then take out and dip 
into beaten egg, and then in rolled cracker, with salt 
stirred in, and fry again, turning so as to get a nice 
brovtm on each side. Make a gravy of water and a 
spoonful of flour in the frying pan and pour over. 
Season, if not salted enough; tomatoes are nice, 
served with cutlets. 

POEK TENDEKLOIN'S. 
Fomie. 

Have the spider hot, grease it with a bit of lard, 
and fry both sides brown, but do not cook them 
through; cover with boiling water, and stew twenty 
minutes or a half hour; thicken the gravy, and season 
with pepper and salt. The meat wiU taste like 
chicken, and i& every bit as good. 



AND TJSEFtTL HOIJSEnOLD HINTS. 71 

DEYILLED KIDNEYS. 

(Devilled, means very hot.) 
Juliet Corson. 

Three tablespoons of oil, one of vinegar, saltspoon 
of salt, pinch of pepper, and a teaspoon of mustard. 
Dip the sliced kidneys in the above mixture and 
broil them. After they are broiled, sprinkle a little 
. cayenne pepper on. Serve when plenty of water can 
be afforded. 

STEWED KIDNEYS. 

Parboil a few minutes; drain off the water and 
boil again for five or ten minutes ; then cut up small, 
put in fresh water and cook until tender. Season 
well, and thicken the gravy. 

LIYER KOLLS. 

Have the liver sliced; pour on boiling water, and 
let stand five minutes, or so. Remove the skin; 
season the slices with salt and pepper. Put a little 
piece of fat salt pork on each slice and roll up, fast- 
ening with a string. Then brown them in a table- 
spoon of di'ippings or butter; then throw in a 
tablespoon of flour among them; stir them about, 
cover with water; season more if necessary, and cook 
half an hour. It may be served as a regular meat 
dish at dinner. 



72 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

POKK AND LIVEE. 

Fry some nice slices of pickled pork or bacon, a 
nice brown, on each side; take up, pour boiling water 
on tlie slices of liver; remove the tliick skin at tlie 
edges ; roll in salted flour, and fry in the pork gravy. 
Cook slowly and thoroughly on both sides. Serve 
each person with a slice of each. It has been recom- 
mended to steam the liver fifteen minutes, before 
frying, in place of scalding. It is worth a trial. 

STEWED CALF'S LIYEE. 

Partly cook; then cut up small and finish stewing. 
Season with pepper, salt and butter. Thicken with 
flour. Serve hot; is nice for breakfast. 

ANOTHER NICE METHOD OF COOXING 
LIVER. 

Scald and peel off the edge ; jiut to fry, and when 
both sides are brown, cover with water in the frying 
pan; put cover over, and let stew fifteen or twenty 
minutes. If the liver is rolled in flour there will be 
a nice gravy made in the stewing. 

CALVES' LIVER LARDED. 

Juliet Corson. 

Use fat salt pork, as it is easier to lard with than 
pickled. For larding small birds, the strips should 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 73 

be an inch and a half long and one-sixteenth of an 
inch thick; for chickens, a quarter of an inch thick; 
beef a la mode half an inch thick. These strips, called 
lardoons, are to be inserted in the surface of the liver 
with a larding needle. "Wash the liver in cold water, 
and trim the loose pieces off, but not the skin proper. 
Lay it on a folded towel held in the hand, curve the 
point of the needle a little, take a stitch in the meat, 
work the needle back and forth two or three times, insert 
the strip of pork in the forked end of the needle and 
pull through, leaving half an inch or so each side of 
the stitch. Dot the whole surface with this culinary 
embroidery. Put the liver on a bed of a few scraps 
of pork, a little carrot, turnip, and onion in a baking- 
pan. In baking, put a buttered paper over it until 
nearly done; then remove the paper, and let the lar- 
doons brown. The vegetables should be rubbed 
thi'ough a sieve, and the di'ippings found in the bot- 
tom of the pan used as a basis for sauce or gravy. 

CKEOLE SAUSAGES. 
Jnliet Corson. 

Prick the sausages all over, and put in the bottom 
of a saucepan; add a very small bit of garlic. After 
the sausages are browned, add a quart of tomatoes 
peeled and sliced; season with salt and pepper, and 
stew for half an hour slowly. Serve all together on 



74 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

a platter It answers as a regular meat course at 
dinner. A combination of garlic and tomatoes always 
gives the name Creole to a dish. 

A nice addition to the above, is dumplings, made 
as follows: A cup of flour, half teaspoon baking 
powder, same of salt, enough water to make a soft 
dough, like biscuit dough, drop into the sausage and 
tomatoes, being sure that there is about a pint of 
liquid, adding water, if necessary; cook covered, 
about fifteen minutes. 

POTTED TKIPE. 

Juliet Corson. 

Boil, clean and cut up fresh tripe. Three pounds 
of tripe; one very large carrot, turnip, onion, all 
peeled, a teaspoon of whole cloves, same of whole 
pepper, two bay leaves, a sprig of parsley. Put in a 
jar. Half cover with broth or water. If broth is 
used, fill up with water, having a half gill of vinegar 
in it. Paste the cover on with flour and water, and 
bake six hours. 

CUERIED TEIPE. 

Juliet Corson. 

Take the tripe, as it ordinarily comes from the 
market; (it is generally cooked;) parboil it for a few 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 75 

minutes, putting it on in cold salt and water. Pour 
off tliat water and put on another, boil for fifteen 
minutes ; take it out, and put in tliat water some rice 
to boil — the proportion is half a pound to a pound 
of tripe. Boil the rice until just tender. At the 
time of putting in the rice, slice and fry brown in a 
saucepan a couple of onions in butter or drippings ; 
then add the tripe and enough hot water to cover. 
Season with salt and pepper, and let it cook until the 
rice is done; add a tablespoon of curry powder to 
the tripe. Stir it up, and dish the tripe with the rice 
around it. If the tripe is not pickled, add a table- 
spoon of vinegar before taking up. 

SWEET BREADS. 

Soak in cold water and salt for an hour; then put 
on in a quart of cold water and a tablespoon of salt, 
and let come slowly to a boil ; then put in cool water 
to cool sufficiently to . handle ; then lard them with 
little strips of dry salted fat pork, about one-sixteenth 
of an inch thick. After they are larded put in the 
oven for fifteen minutes ; brown them a little, and in 
the meantime, make a garnish of whatever you wish. 
French green peas, mushrooms, stringbeans, or a plain 
white sauce. 



76 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

STUFFED YEAL. 

Have tlie butcher make an incision for dressing. 
Use bread crumbs, a taste of onion, a raw egg beaten 
up, and any herbs that are desired. Stuff and cook 
in a moderate oven till well done, about twenty-five 
minutes to the pound. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Mrs. M. A. 8. 

Three pounds uncooked veal; three-quarters of a 
pound of salt pork; chop both fine; one cup of rolled 
cracker; two eggs, well beaten; one teaspoon of sugar; 
four of salt; two of pepper. Bake two hours. 

YEAL CAKE. 

Mrs. L. S. H. 
One pound of salt pork; two pounds of lean veal, 
both chopped fine; three Boston crackers rolled fine; 
salt and pepper; two small nutmegs; three eggs; 
mix well; put into a deep tin and bake two hours. 

MAKBLED YEAL. 

Mrs. D. A. Bradford. 

Take some cold, roasted veal; season with spice; 
beat in a mortar. Skin a cold boiled tongue; cut up 
and pound it to a paste, adding to it, nearly its weight 
of butter; put some of the veal into a pot; then 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 77 

strew in lumps of tlie pounded tongue ; put in another 
layer of tlie veal, and again, more tongue; press it 
down and pour clarified butter on top. This cuts 
very prettily, like veined marble. The white meat 
of fowls may be used instead of veal. 

DRIED BEEF. 
Chip half a pound of dried beef fine ; put it in a 
stewpan, well covered with cold water. When it 
comes to a boil, pour oflf, and put over it a pint and 
a half of milk. Thicken this with a good tablespoon 
of flour wet with cold milk or water. Put in a bit 
of butter and pepper, and serve with baked potatoes. 
A nice breakfast or lunch for home people. 

SWEET BREADS. 

Parboil them as soon as you get them. Remove 
the tough pai'ts carefully. Let them lie in cold water 
a short time before using, then roll in cracker crumbs. 
Season with salt and pepper, and fry. 

FRIED TRIPE. 

Scrape the tripe. Cut it into squares of three 
inches; boil in salted water; when very tender, take 
out; cut up smaller; season, roll in flour and fry 
brown in hot lard. When done, pour a cup of water 
in the frying pan, and thicken with flour mixed 
smooth, with vinegar; pour over the tripe, hot. Good 
for breakfast. 



78 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

KIIODE ISLAND DUMPLINGS. 

One quart of corn meal, lialf teaspoon of salt, wet 
up witli cold water stiff. Pat witli the hands, into 
little balls. Put them on the bottom and around the 
sides of a kettle, and pour boiling water over them 
and boil briskly an hour. To be eaten with meat 
gravies. You can cook potatoes with them. 

TO KEEP FKESH POKK. 

Roast as many pieces as you wish to keep, all 
ready for the table; then put them away in lard. All 
that is necessary is to heat through when wanted, and 
the lard is just as good as any for frying doughnuts 
or mush. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Clean the head well, and soak in brine twenty-four 
hours; then boil it till very tender. Pemove all 
bones, and add to it a boiled heart, tongue, and part 
of a liver; chop very fine; add salt, pepper, sage and 
onion, if wished. Mix well; put in a colander and 
set over hot water at night. In the morning, put it 
to press. 

SAUSAGES. 

Use the proportion of one pound of fat pork to 
two of lean fresh pork; three good teaspoons of sage; 
two teaspoons of salt; same of pepper; good half 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 79 

teaspoon of cloves, and a pincli of nntmeg. Cliop 
very fine, and mix well. To keep it any length of 
time, pack it in a jar and pour over it hot lard. 

TO PEESS COKNED BEEF. 

Put over in cold water and boil till tke bones fall 
out. Let it cool in the water; then remove, wrap it 
tightly in a towel, put in a cool place with a weight 
on it. Slice very thin. 

SOUSE. 

Put the pigs' feet and ears when well cleaned, over 
the fire in cold water. Boil till tender; pour over 
them in a jar a pickle made of cider vinegar, whole 
peppers, cloves and mace, boiling hot. They will be 
ready to eat in three days, or less. 

HOW TO COOK PIGS' FEET. 

After they are well cleaned, wrap each foot in a 
cotton bandage wound around it two or three times, 
and secured with cord; then boil them four hours; 
keep them in the cloths till needed to fry, broil oi' 
pickle. If cooked in this way, the skin will hold it 
together while cooking, and they will be found very 
delicate and tender. 



80 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

BEEF PICEXE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

One hundred pounds of beef ; four pounds of coarse 
salt, made line ; four pounds of sugar ; four ounces of 
saltpetre; mix the salt, sugar and saltpetre well 
together, and rub the meat all over with it, and pack 
the pieces closely in a barrel. It will make its own 
pickle. Put no water in, as it will sj)oil the meat. 
In warm weather, if a scum rises, skim it off and 
add a little fine salt. This will preserve it, with no 
further trouble. The beef should be kept till juicy, 
before attempting to pack it at all. This is very 
necessary to have it tender and keep well. At first, 
turn it, and rub the mixture in quite often. (Excel- 
lent.) 

CUPJNG HAMS. 
Mrs. E. B. B. 

Nine pounds of rock salt, or coarse salt; two 
pounds of allspice ; three and a half pounds of brown 
sugar; two ounces of saltpetre; one and a half ounces 
of soda; six gallons of water; one hundred and 
fifteen pounds of ham. 

CUEE FOR DPJED BEEF AND HAM. 

Half pound of rock salt; half a pound common 
salt; one pint of molasses; one ounce of black pep- 
per; one ounce of saltpetre. This is enough for 



AND USEFUL IIOUSEUOLD UINTS. 81 

eighteen pounds of meat. It should be rubbed into 
the meat everj day, in the tub, and the meat turned 
over and over. 



HASH. 

If a medium sized family has meat twice a day 
there can easily be gotten drippings enough for fiy- 
ing all the potatoes, French toast, mush, wonders 
and scrapple they may serve from time to time. 

In clearing a table, every scrap of meat or bone 
with a particle of fat on it should be saved in a tin 
can or basin. The meat remnants on the plates may 
be mixed with other food, but they should be rinsed 
and saved, nevertheless. It is more nice than wise to 
throw them into the garbage. Keep these accumu- 
lations for a couple of days, then put them in the 
oven, and in an hour or two all the grease wiU be 
tried out. It can then be strained, and is purer and 
more wholesome than the lard sold by the average 
butcher. A raw potato peeled and sliced and cooked 
in a quart of drippings will clarify it very success- 
fully. The fat that rises on the water tliat corned 
beef has been boiled in, makes very nice cookies. It 
can be melted and strained with other drippings to 
make it clearer. 
6 



82 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

COKNED BEEF HASH. 

Take the clear pieces of cold corn beef, removing 
all gristle and bone. Chop fine, add twice the quan- 
tity of cold chopped potatoes. Moisten with some 
of the water the beef was cooked in, grease the spider 
with the fat that rises when cold. "Warm well through. 
It may be moistened with milk, if preferred. 

WOl^DEES. 

Mrs. J. E. M. 

Take any bits of cold meat and chop fine. Take 
half as much potatoes as meat, and the same quantity 
of bread broken fine and moistened with hot water. 
Good tablespoon of flour made into smooth paste for 
thickening, two or three beaten eggs, any cold gravies 
that may be left over. Season well. Drop from a 
spoon into a hot, well greased spider. Drippings 
will answer. 

PHILADELPHIA SCRAPPLE. 

Mrs. C. S. J. 

Take bits of cold fowl or any kind of cold meat, or 
two or three kinds together. Cut up small, put in a 
frying pan with water to cover. Season well. When 
it boils, thicken with corn meal stirred in carefully 
like mush, and about as thick. Cook a short time, 
pour into a dish to mould, slice off and fry for 
breakfast. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 83 

VEAL CEOQUETTES. 

Mrs. 8. Gebhart. 

Mince cooked veal very fine, add one chopped 
onion, mix half a cnp of milk with a teaspoon of 
flour. Butter size of a walnut. Cook until thickened 
and stir into the meat. Make into balls. Dip into 
beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs and fry in plenty of 
hot lard. 

UNION HASH. 
Chop up cold meat and season with pepper, salt, 
butter, and a cup of gravy if you have it; if not, 
add a cup of water to a pint of minced meat. Put 
in a baking dish and cover with mashed potatoes. 
Bake half hour in a well-heated oven. 

DELICIOUS MINCED VEAL. 
Chop cold roast veal; season with pepper, salt, 
nutmeg and lemon peel; moisten with a beaten egg 
and gravy or water. Put into a buttered dish, press 
down, cover, and set in a vessel of boiling water for 
an hour or more. Spread a beaten yolk of egg on 
the top and strew sifted bread crumbs over. Brown 
in the oven. Pour a little melted butter over and 
garnish with slices of lemon. 

BEEF PATTIES. 
Mince cold cooked beef, fat and lean, very fine; 
season with chopped onion, pepper, salt and gravy. 



84 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

Half fill patty pans with this and then fill them with 
mashed potatoes; put a bit of butter on each and 
brown in a hot oven. 

CHICKEN CEOQUETTES. 

Juliet Corson. 

Put a tablespoon of butter in a saucepan over the 
fire. Fry in it a teaspoon of chopped onion and a 
heaping tablespoon of flour. Add a pint of milk or 
water slowly, to tbe consistency of a sauce that will 
clino- to the spoon. Season with salt and pepper. 
Put in it three-fourths of a pound of cooked chicken 
and one-fourth pound of mushrooms cut in small 
pieces but not chopped. Let cook a minute, then 
remove and stir in the yolks of two or three eggs 
and a half glass of cooking wine, if desired. Pour 
into a well buttered deep plate, well rubbed with oil. 
Pour a few drops of oil on top to keep the chicken 
from hardening. Let cool several hours before bread- 
ing and frying the" same as fish croquettes 

MEAT PIES. 

Cbop up cold roast beef or other meat. Heat it 
with a cup of water in a spider. Season with pepper, 
salt, and a bit of sage, and thicken with a spoonfol 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 85 

of flour mixed in a little cold water. Pour tMs into 
a deep pan and make a crust a trifle riclier than bis- 
cuit dough, which spread over the top, make an 
opening in and bake. Cold potatoes maj be addea 
to the meat. 

MEAT DUMPLINGS. 
E. H. 

Take cold meat prepared as for meat pie described 
above. Make a biscuit dough, cut into as many 
pieces as you wa,nt dumplings, roll each about a quar- 
ter of an inch thick, and as large as a pint bowl. 
Put a small tablespoon of the meat in the center, 
gather up and pinch the edges together, set close 
together on a buttered plate and steam in a closely 
covered steamer twenty minutes. Serve any gravy 
there may be in a hot gravy dish. 

MINCED MUTTON. 
Take cold mutton, chop fine, heat it in gravy, and 
add a spoon of catsup and a bit of butter. Thicken 
with a little flour made smooth in water, and serve on 
a platter surrounded with mashed potatoes. 

FRICASSEE OF BEEF. 
Cut thin slices of cold cooked beef and heat quick- 
ly in some butter, already hot, in a frying-pan. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper, parsley, and lemon juice. Serve 
hot, with Saratoga potatoes. 



86 MKS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

MEAT OMELET. 

Mince up any cold pieces of meat, add a few crumbs 
of bread or crackers, and enough beaten egg to bind 
them together. Season well and pour into a well 
buttered hot frying pan. If it is difficult to turn it 
whole, a hot shovel may be held over the top until it 
is browned. 

EAGOUT. ^ 

Take pieces of any cold meats, cut small, put into 
a stewpan with water to cover. Put in a minced 
onion or two if liked, and some cold boiled potatoes 
sliced. Heat up, and when at a boiling point, thicken 
with flour. Season with pepper and salt. A dash of 
cayenne pepper improves it. Unless the onion is 
minced very fine, it must be cooked alone before put- 
ting into the stew. Meats to be hashed up should 
only be heated through, not boiled. 



Sauces, Catsups and Salads. 

CAKAMEL. 
Miss Juliet Corson. 
Caramel for coloring soups, gravies and sances, is 
made by putting a tablespoon of any kind of sugar 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 87 

in a dry sancepan. Place over the fire and burn 
sliglitlj. When very dark brown, ponr in a very 
little water. Keep stirring, and gradually add a cup 
full. If the sugar is not entirely dissolved, add a 
little more water. This imparts a rich color, and is 
better than browned flour. 

A small wooden stick or paddle is much better to 
use in making gravies and mush than a spoon. It 
can scrape the bottom of a kettle without scratching 
or marring. 

White pepper is considered better for table use 
than black. In salads and any delicate cookery, it is 
to be preferred. 

In all salads where butter is called for salad oil 
may be used instead, bearing in mind to use about 
half the quantity. 

CITRKY POWDER, 

FOE GEAVIES WITH DIFFERENT KINDS OF MEATS, AND FOB 
DUCKS. 

Mrs. D. W. 8. 

One ounce each of ginger, mustard and black 
pepper, three ounces each coriander seed and tumeric, 
one-quarter ounce cayenne pepper, one-half ounce 
each cardamon, cummin seed and cinnamon. Pound 
very fine, sift, and keep tightly corked in a bottle. 



88 MRS. o wens' cook book 

MUSTARD FOE TABLE USE. 

Take one-half of a quarter pound of mustard, to 
this add a teaspoon of sugar and one-lialf teaspoon 
of salt. Use the best cider vinegar to wet it, and 
stir to a smooth paste. When this is done, make it 
quite thin with vinegar and cook it, stirring all the 
time; it will thicken like flour paste. When cool it 
is fit for use. 

DEAWN BUTTEE SAUCE. 

Half cup butter, dessertspoon of flour rubbed well 
together. Put into a saucepan with one cup water or 
stock. Cover and set in a larger vessel of boiling 
water. Keep moving the saucepan. Season with 
salt and pepper. When thoroughly mixed, take off. 
Do not let boil. 

DUTCH SAUCE FOE MEAT OE FISH. 

Put six spoonfuls of water and four of vinegar into 
a saucepan warm, and thicken it with the yolks of 
two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it; 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it 
through a sieve. 

CELEEY SAUCE FOE BOILED FOWLS. 

Cook in a pint of water two heads of celery 'cut up 
smalL One teaspoon salt. Eub together a table- 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 89 

spoon of flour witli the same quantity of butter, and 
put this into a pint of cream or ricli milk. Pour 
over the celery and let come to a boil. Remove. 

MUSHEOOM SAUCE. 

Cut oflT the stalks. Put into boiling water with 
butter, pepper and salt. When tender, thicken with 
butter and flour, a tablespoon each, and add a little 
lemon juice. 

ASPARAGUS SAUCE. 

A dozen heads of asparagus, two teacups drawn 
butter, two eggs, the juice of half a lemon, salt and 
white pepper. Boil the tender heads in a very little 
salted water. . Drain and chop them. Have ready a 
pint of drawn butter, with two raw eggs beaten into 
it, add the cooked asparagus, and season, squeezing in 
the lemon juice last. The butter must be hot, but do 
not cook after putting in the asparagus heads. This 
accompanies boiled fowls, stewed fillet of veal or 
boiled mutton. 

SAUCE ROBART, FOR RUMPS OR STEAKS. 

Put a piece of butter size of an egg into a sauce- 
pan, set it over the fire, and when bro^vning, thi-ow in 
a handful of sliced onions cut small; fry brown, but 
do not let them burn, add one-half spoonful of flour, 



90 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

shake the onions in it, and give it another fry; then 
put four spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and 
salt, and boil gently ten minutes. Skim off the fat, 
add a teaspoon of made mustard, and a spoonful of 
vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it all, 
and pour it round the steaks. 

QUEEN OF OUDE SAUCE. 
Mrs. A. W. S., Logan, Iowa. 

One peck green tomatoes, four onions, eight green 
peppers, ten horse-radish roots, one cup salt. Chop 
fine and let stand in salt over night. Drain carefully. 
Add one cup sugar, one tablespoon each of cinnamon, 
allspice and cloves, cover with vinegar and cook four 
or five hours. (This is a very fine sauce.) 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. Hollett, Independence, Iowa. 

Twenty-four good sized tomatoes, eight large onions, 
eight green or ripe peppers, eight tablespoons salt, 
four cups vinegar, ten cents worth mustard seed, one- 
quarter teacup spice pounded, one-quarter teacup 
cloves pounded. Boil one hour. If too thick, add 
vinegar to taste, same with salt. Double this quan- 
tity will make six quarts sauce. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 91 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

Mrs. K 

The only catsup to serve with fish. Take young, 
tender walnuts, prick tliem and place in a jar with 
sufficient water to cover them, add a handful of salt 
to every twenty-five walnuts, stir them twice a day 
for fourteen days, drain off the liquor into a kettle. 
Cover the walnuts with boiling vinegar, crush them 
to a pulp and strain through a colander into the juice. 
For every quart take two ounces each of white pepper 
and ginger, and one each of cloves and grated nutmeg, 
a pinch of cayenne pepper, a small onion minced fine, 
and a teaspoon of celery seed tied in muslin. Boil 
all together for one hour. When cold, bottle. 

CAPEE BUTTER 

One tablespoon chopped capers, one table spoon 
butter, one saltspoon salt, a pinch of pepper. Serve 
with boiled fish. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 
Mrs. L. 8. H. 

One bushel ripe tomatoes, boil until sofl, and 
strain through a sieve. Add two quarts vinegar, 
and a half pint- salt, one ounce cayenne pepper, five 
heads garlic skinned and parted, two ounces whole 
cloves, four ounces whole allspice, s>iad three teaspoons 



92 MKS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

whole black pepper. Mix and boil three bonrB. 
Bottle without straining. The tomatoes will keep 
their own color if the spices are put in whole. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 
Mrs. Hollet. 

Two quarts skinned tomatoes, two tablespoons salt, 
one tablespoon allspice, four pods red pepper, two 
tablespoons ground mustard. Mix and rub thor- 
oughly, and stew in a pint of vinegar for three hours, 
then strain through a sieve and simmer it down to 
one quart. Pour in bottles and cork tight. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Grate full grown cucumbers, sprinkle with salt and 
let stand over night. Drain well, season with celery 
seed, add vinegar till about the consistency of the 
cucumber when first grated, and bottle for use. 

CUEEANT CATSUP. 

Five pounds currants crushed, three pounds light 
brown sugar, one pint good vinegar, two tablespoons 
ground cinnamon, one tablespoon ground cloves, one 
tablespoon ground allspice, one-half teaspoon salt, 
one teaspoon black pepper. Boil fast one hour, cool, 
and bottle tight. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS, 93 

GOOSEBEKEY CATSUP. 

Pass througli a colander four quarts stewed berries. 
To the pulp add one and a half pints vinegar, one 
tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, and 
three pounds sugar. Stir ten or fifteen minutes. 
Common red plums are nice this waj. 

SPICED CUEKANTS. 
Mrs. F. W. Van B. 

Five pounds currants, three pounds B sugar, one 
pint vinegar, one tablespoon each of salt, cloves, all- 
spice and cinnamon. Boil the sugar, vinegar and 
spices ten minutes. Then add the currants crushed, 
and boil hard twenty minutes. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

A. H. H, 

One peck peaches, two quarts vinegar, four pounds 
sugar, three nutmegs, one tablespoon cloves and cin- 
namon. After paring the peaches place in a jar, 
strewing spices through them. Boil vinegar and 
sugar together, and pour over them three days in suc- 
cession, the fourth day boiling altogether twenty 
minutes. 



94 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

geeejS^ tomato sot 

Mrs. E. B. B, 

Two gallons green tomatoes sliced, twelve large 
onions sliced, two quarts vinegar, one quart sugar, 
two tablespoons salt, two tablesj^oons ground mustard, 
two tablespoons black pepper ground, one tablespoon 
allspice, one tablespoon cloves. Stew till tender, seal 
in glass jars. 

DKESSING FOR CABBAGE. 
No. 1. 
One quart vinegar, four tablespoons butter rolled 
in flour, one teaspoon salt, one saltspoon cayenne 
pepper. Put on the fire, and as soon as it boils stir in 
the beaten yolks of four eggs. Pour over cut cabbage 
while warm. Eat cold. Good for salads. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

FOK ANY VEGETABLE SALAD. 

One tablespoon vinegar, tbree tablespoons salad oil, 
one saltspoon salt, one-quarter saltspoon pepper. Stir 
together. Less oil is preferred by many. 

MAYONAISE SALAD DRESSING. 

Juliet Corson. 

For one pint, use the yolk of one egg, a saltspoon 
or more of salt, half of pepper, a dust of cayenne 
pepper, a level teaspoon of dry mustard, a teaspoon 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 95 

of lemon juice or vinegar. Mix to a smootli paste, 
then add salad oil and vinegar (or lemon juice), a very 
few drops at a time, first of one then of the other, 
stirring constantly until three gills of oil and four 
tablespoons of the lemon or vinegar have been added. 
Make in a cool place. If it curdles, stir in half a 
teaspoon of the vinegar or lemon alone. Mix well, 
and if that does not bring it right, set it in the ice 
box for a while. If it still curdles, take another yolk 
and begin over again, and gradually stir in the curdled 
sauce, and it will come out all right. If a white 
mayonaise is desired, use the white of the egg. It 
will keep a long time. Set on ice a short time before 
using. 

DEESSING FOE COLD SLAW. 

No. 2. 

Mrs. Nellie Eoe, Sac City, Iowa. 
One teaspoon black pepper, one teaspoon mustard, 
two tablespoons white sugar, one-half cup sour cream, 
one-half cup vinegar, one-half teaspoon salt. More 
sugar if your taste requires. Pour over cold. 

CABBAGE DEESSING. 

No. 3. 

Mrs. L. S. H. 

One teacup vinegar, one tablespoon butter, same of 

flour, two small tablespoons sugar, pepper and salt. 



96 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

Cook, pour over chopped or sliced cabbage while hot. 
Cover closely, and eat cold. 

AlSrOTHER. 

No. 4— Mrs. M. A. S. 

Half pint vinegar, butter size of egg, one egg, two 
teaspoons sugar, one each mustard and salt; pepper. 
Boil vinegar, take from stove and stir all ingredients 
together quickly and pour over the cabbage. 

LETTUCE DRESSING. 

Yolks of two hard boiled eggs, two tablespoons 
sweet cream, teaspoon pepper, sugar, and mustard, 
half teaspoon salt. Rub together, let stand five 
minutes, add vinegar, and pour over lettuce cold. 

MAITRE D' HOTEL SAUCE. 

Cup melted butter, teaspoon chopped parsley, 
juice one lemon, pinch cayenne and salt; simmer. 

TARTAR SAUCE. 

First make a Mayonaise; mix with it one table- 
spoon each of chopped parsley, capers and gherkins 
and one teaspoon chopped onion. 

PLAIN WHITE SAUCE. 

Tablespoon each butter and flour made smooth in 
a saucepan and a pint of milk or water added slowly. 
If it seems too thin, cook longer. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 97 

OEANGE SALAD. 

For eight or ten persons, peel and slice in round 
slices half a dozen oranges. Grate the rind of one, 
squeeze the juice from one lemon, mix together the 
juice of lemon, the rind of orange, and three table- 
spoons salad oil, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Pour 
over the sliced oranges. A very nice accompaniment 
to roast duck or game. Its place is with game, 

SALMAGUNDI. 

Juliet Corson. 

Dress this salad on a standing salad dish or a fruit 
dish. Use chopped veal or chicken, hard boiled eggs, 
white and yolk cho2)ped separately, sardines or ancho- 
vies, tongue, pickled beets or red cabbage, chopped 
pickles or capers, and parsley or water cresses. Pre- 
pare all of these separately, and arrange them in little 
rows, placing the colors so they will harmonize. Dress 
with plain French salad dressing, using three times 
as much oil as vinegar or lemon juice. If sardines 
are used, get the boneless sardines at a trifling excess 
of cost. Grated orange or lemon rinds are nice addi- 
tions. Salmagundi is specially adapted for night 
suppers. 

EUSSLAN SALAD. 

Take at least three colors of vegetables, beet, carrot 
and turnip. Cut the carrot and turnip in slices over 
7 



98 



MRS. OWENS COOK BOOK 



an inch tliict, then take an apple corer or a smaller 
cylinder and cut through the slices as many pieces 
as can be gotten. When enough are cut, boil each 
kind separately in a little vessel, putting over in boil- 
ing salted water. When just tender, drain and lay 
in cold water. Beets are not to be soaked in cold 
water, but boiled whole and cut up when ready to 
serve in the salad. Lay the colors around on a small 
salad platter rather than a high salad dish, in little 
groups, and pour over a plain French salad dressing. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cold boiled potatoes sliced in thin slices in alter- 
nate layers with onion sliced very thin. Pour over 
cabbage dressing No. 4, and garnish with parsley and 
hard boiled egg. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cold boiled potatoes cut in slices. If liked, mix 
with bits of cold boiled fish. Put on a platter, make 
a salad dressing of three tablespoons melted butter or 
olive oil, three of cream, large teaspoon salt, half tea- 
spoon white pepper and half a teaspoon mustard. 
Mix this into half a cup of vinegar. When thor- 
oughly cooked together add a couple of well beaten 
eggs. Take off directly and stir two or three min- 
utes. Pour over cold. Chop parsley very fine and 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 99 

strew across tlie top in the form of vines. Lay sliced 
cucnmbers or green pickled tomatoes around the edge. 
This is for about six good sized potatoes. 



VEGETABLES. 

Green vegetables when boiling, should be kept at 
the boiling point, else by stopping, the lowered tem 
perature will soften them, and detract from their 
color. 

After washing vegetables, lay them in cold water 
till time to put over to cook. Put them into boiling 
water unless otherwise directed. A pinch of salt, 
pepper or spice, means about a quarter of a saltspoon. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

If they are to be served whole, wash well, (it is 
easier to wash with a cloth,) cut an end off, or a nar- 
row strip entirely around. This makes them mealy. 
When done, pour off the water and set on the back 
of the stove with a towel laid over them. 



100 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

POTATOES COOKED WITHOUT WATEK. 

WTieii potatoes are first washed, they may be 
cooked without any water, by putting them into a 
closely covered stewpan. The cover must fit per- 
fectly, and the vessel must set flat on the stove. I 
have cooked them that way many times. Set the 
stewpan on top of the stove, shake occasionally, but 
do not lift the cover under half an hour. Try it. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Peel, cut in two, and cook tender; drain; masTi 
fine with a large fork, or, what is still better, the 
Victor vegetable masher. The latter renders them 
extremely mealy. Season with butter and salt. Pour 
in a cup of sweet cream or milk for a family of half 
a dozen persons. Beat in thoroughly with a wooden 
spoon; keep beating till your potatoes are a foamy 
white. Take up in a tureen. Dash a little pepper 
on in spots, if liked. Serve hot, with any kind oi 
meats used at dinner. 

QHIKLED POTATOES. 

Peel, boil, season and mash potatoes, then put them 
through a colander into the dish you wish to serve 
them. Brown in the oven. 



AlO) USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 101 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Scrape or pare six good sized potatoes, place in a 
chopping-bowl, scatter over them flour enougli to fill 
a teacup, add salt, pepper, and butter to taste, chop 
fine and mix well. Grease a deep pie-tin, spread the 
mixture in it, and cover with cream ; bake slowly half 
or three-quarters of an hour. 

SAKATOGA POTATOES. 

Peel and slice thin into cold water. Drain well, 
and dry in a towel. Fry a few at a time in boiling 
lard. Salt as you take them out, and lay them on 
coarse brown paper for a short time. They are very 
nice cold for lunch, or to take to picnics. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

If the potatoes are wiped dry, they will bake much 
sooner than if put into the oven wet from washing 
them. 

POTATOES A LA CKEME. 

Put into a saucepan three tablespoons of butter, a 
small handful of parsley chopped small, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Stir up well until hot, add a small tea- 
cup of cream or rich milk, thicken with two teaspoons 
of flour, and stir until it boils. Chop some cold 
boiled potatoes, put into the mixture, and boil up 
once before serving. 



102 MBS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Season cold mash potato with pepper, salt and nut- 
meg. Beat to a cream, with a tablesj)oon of melted 
hutter to every cup of potato. Bind with two or 
three beaten eggs, and add some minced parsley. Roll 
into oval balls, dip in beaten egg, then in bread- 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard or drippings. Pile in a 
pyramid upon a flat dish, and serve. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Two cups mashed potatoes, with two spoons melted 
butter, beaten until creamy. Then add two well- 
beaten eggs and a cup of cream or milk, a little salt, 
beat well. Pour into a baking dish, spread butter 
over the top and bake quickly a delicate brown. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Take the remains of mashed potatoes; make into 
flat balls, dip in beaten egg and fry a nice brown in 
drippings. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Boil, peel and slice about one-fourth of an inch 
thick. For six potatoes, use one onion. Put the 
shced onion into a hot buttered frying pan. When 
a little brown, put in the potatoes. Season, and when 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 1()5 

a golden brown, sprinkle over them a tablespoon of 
chopped parsley. A combination of onion and parsley 
always means Lyonnaise. 

PAEISIAN POTATOES. 

Pare and cut raw potatoes in balls, like walnuts. 
Boil them in salted water till tender. Drain them ; 
lay them on a towel to dry, for a moment, and then 
brown in hot lard, the same as doughnuts. It will 
take but a very short time. Take out, sprinkle with 
a little salt, and serve on a platter with broiled beef- 
steak. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 



Pare the potatoes, cover the bottom of a baking 
dish with bread crumbs; then add a layer of sliced 
potatoes, bits of butter, salt and pepper; fill the dish 
with alternate layers; wet the whole with milk and 
bake for an hour .and a half. 

In cooking sweet potatoes, they will be made mealy 
if boiled and then put into the oven to dry thoroughly. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Scald and skin the desired number, and place in a 
stewpan without water; let them simmer for half an 



104 MRS. OWEXS' COOK BOOK 

hour. Add j^epper, salt, and a good sized piece of 
"butter. Grate a few bits of stale bi-ead over all; boil 
up once, and serve very hot. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Select large ripe ones. Make a hole in the center 
and stuff with bread-crumbs, seasoned with butter, 
salt and pepper. Place them in a deep pan and bake. 
Put a cup of water in the pan. 

FKIED GREEN TOMATOES. 
J. E. 0. 

Slice rather thick, and roll in com meal. Salt and 
pepper, and place in hot frying-pan, well buttered. 
Cover closely and fry until perfectly tender and nicely 
browned. If you don't really like them the first 
time, try again, as they seem to require a cultivated 
taste. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Peel and slice nice smooth ripe tomatoes. Place 
in a baking dish a layer with salt and pepper; then 
a layer of bread or cracker crumbs, with small lumps 
of butter. Kepeat till the dish is full; bake about 
an hour; onion may be added, if Hked. 



AKD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 105 

TOMATOES AND EICE. 

In cooking tomatoes for half a dozen persons, pnt 
in two tablespoons raw rice, when first pnt over to 
stew. It will be found a very palatable dish, cooked 
until the rice is well done, and seasoned with butter, 
pepper and salt. 

METHOD OF COOKING RICE. 

Juliet Corson. 

Put a teacup of rice into a quart of boiling water, 
with a tablespoon of salt. Boil twelve minutes; drain 
off the water and cover and set back for ten minutes. 
Verv nice, 

HOW TO COOK EICE. 

An American in Japan writes that they do know 
Vow to cook rice there. Thej put just enough cold 
«7ater on to keep from burning, cover closely and cook 
over a moderate fire. "When nearly done, take off 
the cover and allow the surplus moisture to escape. 
The rice turns out in whole kernels, snow-white, and 
very superior to the American way of cooking it. 

A NICE WAY TO COOK SWEET CORN. 
Mrs. A. 8. J. 

Take six plump ears of sweet corn and grate from 
the cob. Beat one egg, stir into it one tablespoon 



106 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

each of flour and milk, pinch of salt and pepper; mix 
all together, and fry in melted butter in a hot frying- 
pan; a spoonful in a place; turn as it gets brown. 

GEEEN COKN PATTIES. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

One dozen ears of corn grated, or cut oflT fine ; one 
quart of flour; three eggs; salt; two teaspoons of 
baking powder. Make very thin with water, and 
bake on a griddle with butter and lard. 

BAKED COEN. 

Take twelve ears of sweet corn, cut the grain partly 
off and scrape the rest. Add one tablespoon of but- 
ter, one of sugar and one teaspoon of salt. Eub 
these well together and add a pint of new milk, then 
put in the oven and bake. 

GEEEN COEN PUDDING. 

Twelve ears of green corn cut off cob; one and a 
half pints of milk, four beaten eggs, one and a half 
cups of sugar. Bake three hours. 

TO CAN GEEEN COEN. 
Aunt Addie. 

To every six quarts of corn take one ounce of 
tartaric acid dissolved in boiling water. Cut the corn 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 107 

from the cob and put in sufficient water to cook. 
When the corn is cooking put in the acid- water and 
seal in air-tight cans. Wlien you wish to use it pour 
off the water from it, put in fresh water and a small 
quantitj of soda; let stand a few moments before 
cooking. When nearly -cooked, say about ten minutes, 
add cream or rich milk, butter, pepper and salt. [A 
lady tells me that in thirty -five cans put up this way, 
not one proved a failure. Ed.] 

SUCCOTASH. 

Cook the shelled beans two hours. In the mean- 
time, cut the corn from the cobs and put the cobs in 
with the beans for a half hour, to extract the sweet- 
ness. Use double the quantity of corn that you do 
beans. At the end of the two hours, put the com in 
with the beans and cook a good half hour. Season 
with salt, pepper and butter and a cup of cream or 
milk thickened with a little flour. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Boil, and when tender, drain. Season with butter 
and pepper and cream, if you have it. 

'to cook string beans. 

String the beans, cut them in pieces of less than 
half an inch, wash them and put them over to cook 



108 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

in boiling water, adding a level teaspoon of soda 
to a good sized mess of beans, let them boil fifteen 
or twenty minutes, drain off the water, j)iit them over 
to cook in boiling water, and as soon as tliey begin 
to be tender, salt them, then boil until they are very 
tender, — it takes a long time to cook them properly — 
after which add butter and pepper to taste, and stir 
in some sweet cream. Or rich milk may be substi- 
tuted, dredging in wheat flour to give it the thick- 
ness of cream. Some prefer them without either, 
using more butter instead. 

BAKED PORK AND BEAKS. 

Put on one quart of dry beans to boil in cold 
water. In about half an hour after they begin to 
boil, put in half a teaspoon of saleratus. Let boil 
up, and pour off the water. Put on fresh water, hot 
or cold, let boil till the beans are tender, but not 
mashed. Take a pound of salt pork, clean it well, 
score the rind, and put it in the center of the beans, 
in a large dripping pan. Bake in a slow oven till all 
are nicely browned on top. 

BOSTON BAKED BEAl^S. 

Take one quart of beans; put to soak over night. 
In the morning put one pound of salt pork in the 
bottom of the bean pot, put the beans in, with plenty 



ANB USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 109 

of water to cover, two good tablespoons of inolaBses, 
a teaspoon of salt, and place in tlie oven. Bake 
slowly all day, being careful to keep tlie beans cov- 
ered with hot water from the tea-kettle. If the oven 
is wanted, the bean pot can be set on the back of the 
stove for any length of time, without harm. This 
quantity will make over two quarts when done. 

CAULIFLOWEK, 

Is better wrapped in a cloth for boiling. Cook 
in salted water. Then serve with drawn butter. 

ANOTHEK METHOD. 

Boil in salted water, just enough to cook it; then 
put in a cup of milk or cream and a very little thick- 
ening, and season with butter, pepper and salt. 

TO COOK GKEENS. 

Look them over carefully, wash them and put them 
in a kettle of boiling water to which has been added 
a handful of salt. Let them boil without cover until 
tender, then put them in a colander, press out all the 
water you can, and put them into the dish in which 
you serve them — a tureen or some deep dish is pref- 
erable; cut them down each way, season with pepper 
and plenty of butter, adding salt if necessary. Greens 
are very nice boiled with ham. 



110 MKS. OWICNS' COOK BOOK 

SAUEKKEAUT. 

Squeeze the sauerkraut out of the brine; wash it 
in one or two cold waters; drain; place it in a 
porcelain-lined or earthen vessel; cover with cold 
water; boil two hours; pour into a colander; press 
out the water; replace in vessel; prepare a dressing 
of one tablespoon of lard and one of flour; stir 
thoroughly in a frying-pan over the fire until it 
assumes a light brown color; mix this well with 
kraut, and serve. Some like the addition of a few 
caraway-seed. The above is the proportion for one 
quart of sauerkraut. 

TRIED CABBAGE. 

Slice thin or chop fine. Put into a frying-pan, 
with some salt pork gravy, and a very little water. 
Season with salt and pepper. Cover closely. Cook 
slowly on top of stove. When done, add half a cup 
of vinegar, if liked. 

SPICED CABBAGE. 

Juliet Corson. 

Half a cup of vinegar, tablespoon of sugar, tea- 
spoon of whole cloves, same of whole pepper, some 
salt, put in the cut cabbage, cover, and cook slowly 
until tender. It is very nice served with a flank of 
beef cooked as follows: Take some stale bread, soak 



Am) USEFUL IIOUSBUOLD HINTS. Ill 

in cold water, season highly; spread on the flank and 
roll up; put some dripj)ings in the pot; brown the 
flank in it; then add water, cover and cook until 
tender. 

CABBAGE A LA CAULIFLOWER. 

Take a small solid head of cabbage. Boil it 
whole, very gently; season it with salt and pepper 
and a cup of milk or cream. Serve hot. It is much 
nicer cooked whole, than cut. 

DELICIOUS WAT OF COOKING CABBAGE, 

so IT MAT BE EATEN BY A DTSPBPTIO. 

Slice or chop fine, a small head, and season with 
salt and pepper; cook in a kettle in just enough 
water to keep it from burning. Take half cup sour 
cream, half cup of vinegar, t^vo eggs, butter, size of 
an egg, beat together, and pour it over the cooked 
cabbage in the kettle. Let it boil up once, and serve. 
Very nice. 

CREAM CABBAGE. 

Slice nicely, cook in a saucepan with just water 
enough to cook it. Season with salt. When tender, 
drain, if any water is left. Pour over it a cup of 
cream or milk, a tablespoon of butter, and a table- 



112 MKS. OWENS' OOOK BOOK 

spoon of flour made smooth witli milk. Let boil up. 
and serve. 

SPRING CARROTS. 

Leave stalks on. Scrape and boil in salted water 
till tender. Dress them with a plain white sauce, 
adding a teaspoon of chopped parsley and half as 
much lemon juice. This is known as maitre d'hotel 
carrots. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 
Take cold boiled rice; allow a small spoon of 
butter and a beaten egg to each cup of boiled rice. 
Roll into oval balls, with floured hands. Dip in 
beaten egg, then in sifted bread or cracker crumbs, 
and fry in hot lard like doughnuts. Good with 
maple syrup. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 
Clean well and put to cook in plenty of boiling 
salted water. It will take one and a half or two 
hours. Drain, and serve in melted butter. 

TO COOK BEETS. 

Boil and slice, and put in a saucepan on the stove. 
Take a small cup of vinegar, tablespoon of butter, 
tablespoon of sugar, little salt and pepper, heaping 
teaspoon of corn-starch dissolved in little water; stir 
all together, till it boils, then pour over the beets, 
stirring carefully. Serve very hot in a covered dish. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEUOLD HINTS. 113 

BOILED BEETS. 

Wash without breaking the skin. Put to cook in 
boiling water. Boil till done. Slice and season with 
butter, salt and pepper in Ihe vegetable dish. Do 
not put on vinegar, as many prefer them without. 
Eat hot. Keep out enough whole ones to cut up for 
pickles. 

TUEKIPS. 

Mrs. A. S. J. 
Peel, cut in slices, and steam. When done, mash ; 
add salt, teaspoon of sugar, two or three tablespoons 
of milk or cream, and a little butter. This will make 
old turnips taste like new. Turnips are also very nice 
cut in slices and cooked in boiling salted water, and 
served in slices seasoned with butter and pepper. 

MACAEONL 

A delicious breakfast dish. Take a pint of Italian 
macaroni broken up into inch pieces. Put it into 
more than a gallon of boiling water, and let it boil 
twenty minutes; drain in a colander; put in a basin 
or pudding dish, with three pints of milk, season with 
butter, pepper and salt, and bake thirty minutes. 

MACAEONI AND CHEESE. 

Break half a pound of macaroni into inch pieces 
and put into a saucepan of boiling water and boil 
8 



114 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

twenty minutes ; add a little salt while boiling; drain, 
and put in a well buttered dish a layer at a time, with 
plenty of grated clieese sprinkled over each layer, 
with pepper to suit taste, and bits of butter. When 
the dish is full, pour over half a cup of good milk, 
or better still, cream. Bake half an hour, and serve 
in the dish it is baked in. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Get the stalks of equal length if you can. Tie up. 
Boil in salted water not quite half an hour. Lay on 
buttered toast, and pour drawn butter over it. 

Asparagus is very nice cut up into half inch pieces 
and cooked same as green peas. 

PARSNIPS. 

Scrape them clean, cut in slices lengthwise and 
boil in a stewpan or skillet till tender. Drain, and 
dip into a batter made of half a cup of milk, one 
egg, half a teaspoon of baking powder in flour 
enough to thicken like griddle cakes. Pry in hot 
drippings or butter. 

GREEN PEAS. 

If the pods are boiled well and the water strained, 
it will be found to contain a great deal of sweetness 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HIKTS. 115 

and nutriment. The peas may be cooked in this 
water. Season with butter, pepper and salt and cream 
if you have it. If the peas are old, a little sugar 
improves them. 

VEGETABLE OYSTER. 

Cut into inch pieces and throw into cold water for 
a short time. Boil the same as green peas. Drain 
the water off and pour over milk or cream, thickened 
a little with flour. Season with butter, pepper and 
salt. 

FEIED EGG PLANT. 

Pare and cut in slices half an inch thick. Sprinkle 
a little salt on each slice and press down for an hour; 
then rinse in clear water and dry well with a towel. 
Dip in egg and rolled cracker and fry a nice brown. 
Season more, if required. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Take a full grown egg plant; cut in two length- 
wise; take out the inside, leaving a half inch of the 
peeling. Chop fine, and mix with an equal quantity 
of bread crumbs. Salt and pepper, to taste. A very 
little sugar. Cook this mixture in butter in a hot 
frying pan, stirring it to keep from burning. Let 
cook about ten minutes ; fill the shells with this, and 
bake in the oven half an hour. Serve in the shells. 



116 MRS. o wens' cook book 

[To peel an onion so it will not break, tAva off the 
root carefully, but not closely. Take off the outer 
dry layer and leave the others intact. Do not cut the 
stalk. In this way, it will not boil to pieces. Juliet 
Corson.] 

BOILED ONIONS. 

When peeling onions keep thera under water, and 
all weeping of the eyes will be avoided. Put to cook 
in boiling water. Boil a few minutes, then drain off 
the water; put on more water and boil again; and, 
still a third, where they may remain till tender. 
This renders them mild in flavor. When the last 
water is poured off, add a cup of milk and seasoning 
of butter, pepper and salt. Boil up and serve. The 
milk helps to relieve them of their offensiveness. 
Onions are very healthful, and it would be better for 
the generality of people, if they ate them oftener, 

SUMMEK SQUASH. 
Grandma Owens. 

Take them when the skin is tender and can be 
easily punctured with the finger nail. Cut up small 
and cook in as little water as possible. Cook without 
covering, so there will be more rapid evaporation. 
Stir often. When they are sufficiently cooked, they 



AND rSEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 117 

will generally be maslied enongli for the table. 
Season well witb salt, pepper and butter. Some like 
a little cream or milk added last. 

HUBBAKD SQUASH. 

Cut in large pieces, scrape clean, and bake. Wben 
done, tbey may be served in the shell, or maslied, 
just as preferred. They cleave from the peel very 
easily. Season with butter and salt. If mashed, 
smooth them nicely on top with a knife, and put lit- 
tle lumps of butter and dashes of pepper here and 
there. Squash may be steamed if preferred. 



BREAD. 

Good bread is the staff of life. It can not be made 
from poor flour. The new process or patent flour is 
the most uniformly satisfactory for bread. Ordinary 
spring wheat makes good sweet bread, but is sticky 
and disagreeable to work up. It takes more of this 
flour than of winter wheat. Small loaves are better 
than large, and make less waste. Never set a bread 
bowl of sponge when it is so hot you can not rest 
your hand for a moment. Let loaves rise to twice the 
original size before baking. When bread is taken 



118 MRS. o wens' cook book 

from the oven, turn it out on a bread cloth. Take 
the pan off, lay an end of the cloth over the bottom 
of the loaf. Replace the pan for ten minutes. It 
helps to make the crust tender. If baked quite hard, 
it is best to brush them over with butter. Cut warm 
bread or cake with a hot knife, to prevent clamminess. 

If at any time it is desired to have bread rise more 
quickly than usual, use double the quantity of yeast 
and it will come up accordingly. 

A half cup of sugar in a batch 'of bread will keep 
it moist, and make it much nicer. 

The following recipes for yeast are excellent, and 
may be implicitly relied upon: 

THE VERY BEST HOME-MADE YEAST 1 
EVER SAW. 

Mrs. W. P. Carr, New Lisbon, "Wis. 

Take three large potatoes, peel and grate them as 
rapidly as possible, so they will not turn dark. Pour 
on one quart boiling water and cook half an hour. 
Add one-half cup sugar, one-half cup salt, shortly 
before it is done. When sufficiently cool, put in any. 
good yeast to raise it; the next day it will be as light 
as a foam. A teacup of this yeast will be enough to 
raise four or five loaves of bread. It should be kept 
in a cool place, and in summer renewed every fort- 
night. 



AND USEFUL irOUSEHOLD HINTS. 119 

HOP YEAST. 

Mrs. P. 

Nine large or twelve small potatoes, one teacup 
hops, one teacup sugar, one teacup salt, one teacup 
old yeast. Pare and slice the potatoes, tie up hops in 
a cloth, and boil together in bright tin or porcelain. 
Put thi'ough a colander, add enough cold water, 
washing the hop bag in it, to make a gallon. When 
cool, add sugar, salt and old yeast. 

INDIAN MEAL YEAST CAKES. 

Six potatoes and a handful of hops, boil together 
and strain on some corn meal, thoroughly scalding it. 
When cool, put in tablespoon ginger, and yeast. Let 
rise, then make into cakes and dry. 

YEKMONT YEAST CAKES. 
Mrs. A. S. J. 

Stir into a pint of good lively yeast a tablespoon 
salt, and wheat flour to make a thick batter. When 
risen light stir in some corn meal till thick enough to 
roll out. When again risen, roll very thin, cut into 
cakes and dry in the shade in clear, windy weather. 
When perfectly dry, tie in a bag and hang in a cool, 
dry place. 



120 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

POTATO YEAST. 

Mrs. Nellie Roe. 

Six or eight large potatoes boiled and put through 
a colander, one cup sugar, one-half cup salt. Pour on 
boiling water till about as thick as griddle cakes. Let 
cool, and when lukewarm, put in one pint good yeast. 
"When risen, stir down several times, keeping in a 
warm place all the time. Then put into jugs, cork, 
and keep in a cool place. 

EASY BEEAD MAKING. 

One quart boiling water, one quart cold water, flour 
enough to make a batter. When sufficiently cool, put 
in half a cup yeast, teaspoon salt, and flour enough 
to knead. Knead smooth and place in a well greased* 
pan. In winter cover with a dish, in summer with a 
cloth; do this at night. In the morning make into 
loaves without using any more flour than barely neces- 
sary to handle, place in the baking tins, greasing the 
top and sides of each loaf with butter or sweet lard. 
Let it rise until little holes may be seen when it is 
pressed gently back from the tin, and put in the oven. 
The oven should be so hot as hardly to bear your 
hand half a minute, and the heat uniform, for from 
thirty to forty-five minutes. This bread is just as 
good as if kneaded for half an hour #* • Tore. 



AliTD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 121 

EASY BKEAD MAKmG. 
No. 3. 

In tlie first place, take three tablespoons flour, two 
tablespoons salt, two tablespoons sugar, and scald by 
pouring on one pint boiling water. Let it stand till 
cool, then add two yeast cakes or soft yeast of equal 
quantity and let rise. Take one dozen good sized 
potatoes, boil and mash, add three quarts hot water, 
when cool enough put in the above yeast, and let 
stand over night. I^ow all that is necessary is to take 
a quart or more, according to the number of loaves 
you want, stir it into the flour, knead it into loaves 
and put it into your tins, let it rise, and bake. No 
sponging nor fussing. The mixture will keep two 
weeks. If your family is large and yon require more 
loaves of bread, make up more of the yeast at a time. 
If you want raised biscuit for tea, just stir a pint or 
more of the yeast with a little shortening into your 
flour, make into biscuit, let rise, and bake. The con- 
tributor of this says it is the nearest to perfect bread 
that she ever tried. 

MILK YEAST BEEAD. 

Take a pint of wheat middlings, stir into it one 
tablespoon white sugar, one tablespoon ginger, one 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda. Put this in some- 
thing that will exclude the air. The day before you 



122 MES, OWENS' COOK BOOK 

want to make bread take two tablespoons of this dry 
mixture, put it in a cup, pour boiling water on it to 
scald, make it about the consistency of yeast, and set 
it where it will keep warm. Do this at noon, and by 
night it will be light, though it will not rise high. 
The next morning take a cup of new milk and one of 
boiling water, a little salt; stir in flour till as thick 
as fritters, add the yeast set tlie day before. If it 
looks dark it will not discolor your bread. Set it in 
a kettle of water as hot as you can bear your hand in, 
and in two or three hours it will be up and foaming, 
then mix your bread, put in the pans to rise, which 
will take about an hour, and then bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Make a rather thick sponge of white flour, yeast, 
water and salt. "When light, stir in Graham flour 
till it is as thick as can be stirred with a spoon. To 
about three loaves put in one cup sugar or molasses. 
Put immediately into the pans to rise for baking. It 
requires a slow oven and takes over an hour to bake. 
Sometimes if the sponge is not quite as thick as 
intended, it is necessary to use more white flour when 
stirring to put into the pans. Graham bread should 
never be kneaded. 

iSoTE.— Wat r may he s^ulistilntod for milk in the followiug recipes, am; 
baking powder for soda and cream of tartar. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 123 

mDIAN BEEAD. 

Two cups Indian meal, two cups rye and two cups 
Graham, one cup molasses, one-lialf cup yeast, one 
teaspoon soda, salt, mix not very stiff with tepid 
water, let rise, and bake slowly three hours. (Excel- 
lent.) 

NEW ENGLAND KYE AND INDIAN BREAD. 

Mrs. O. Jones. 

Scald one quart Indian meal. When cool, add 
same quantity of rye, one-half teacup molasses, tea- 
spoon salt, a teacup good lively yeast, and small tea- 
spoon soda. Mix well, add more water if needed. 
When risen, bake two hours or steam three hours. 
Graham will answer in place of rye. 

PRISON MISSION BROWN BREAD.* 

Mrs. J. B. Wheeler, Peoria, 111. 
1 pint sour milk, 1 cup each corn meal, Graham 
flour and white flour, -J cup molasses, 1 teaspoon 
salt, same of soda. Steam 2 hours and bake 1 hour, 
in a two-quart basin. 

* This recipe was given me by the wife of our 
United States Prison Missionary, Rev. W. D. A, 
Matthews, Onarga, 111., who is doing so much for 
the welfare of prisoners. 



124 



MKS. OWEXS COOK BOOK 



PAULINE'S BEOWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Dr. Cory. 

Four cups meal, two and one-lialf cups flour, two 
cups sour milk, one and one-half cups sweet milk, two 
and one-half teaspoons soda, one teaspoon shortening, 
salt. Steam two or three hours. 

ELECTION BREAD. 

Two quarts flour, one pint corn meal, two table- 
spoons lard, one-third cake of yeast, a teaspoon of 
salt; mix with water to a stiff batter; pour into a 
deep bread pan. Let rise over night and bake in 
the morning. 

YERMONT BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. A. C. Hastings, IRIiddletown, Vt 

Two teacups sour milk, two teacups sweet milk, 
one scant teacup molasses, three teacups Indian meal, 
two teacups rye or wheat flour, two teaspoons soda, 
one teaspoon salt. Put in a two quart basin, place in 
a steamer and steam three hours, then bake one-half 
hour, or till a light crust is formed. (Excellent.) 

RUSK. 
Mrs. L. D. R. 
One cup butter, two cups sugar, two cups new milk, 
one cup good yeast, three eggs. Stir as stiff as pos- 



AIJD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 125 

sible with a spoon. Set in warm place to rise over 
niglit. Ought to rise twice the size of the first. Cut 
ojff little bits, make into balls with the hands, using 
no more flour than necessary. When very light bake 
twenty minutes. 

RAISED BISCUIT. 

On baking day save out enough of the bread dough 
for a large pan of biscuits. Mix in two eggs, two 
tablespoons shortening, same of sugar. Use flour 
enough to knead all well together. Let it rise in a 
bowl and chop down with a chopping knife or carver. 
It will soon come up again. Keep chopping it down. 
It rises sooner after each chopping. Make into small 
,'ound balls for supper. Put a little butter between 
them, let rise and bake. Then take them from the 
oven, brush them over with milk and sugar. 

ROLLS. 
Mrs. A. S. Johnston. 

One pint of sweet milk warmed; add half a tea- 
cup melted butter, two tablespoons of sugar, small 
pinch of salt, penny's worth of good yeast. Stir in 
flour and knead it on the board five minutes. Set in 
a warm place. When risen, knead it for ten minutes 
and put on the board and chop it fine with carving or 
chopping knife. Let rise again; then roU it out, cut, 



126 MKS, OWENS' COOK BOOK 

as for biscuit, spread lightly with melted butter; lap 
one side o\ 
I ever ate. 



one side over the other ; let rise, and bake. The best 



SAEATOGA EOLLS. 

Mrs. E. B. Baldwin. 

Two quarts of flour; one quart of milk; half a 
cup of butter, two large tablespoons of jeast, salt. 
Sponge over night, and make into rolls in the morn- 
ing; let rise, and bake. 

COEN MEAL EOLLS. 

Mrs. A. S. J. 

If yon wish the rolls for breakfast, make a quart 
of mush at noon, the day before. Salt it well; add 
while warm, one teacup of lard or butter, one-half 
cup of sugar. Mix thoroughly; when cool enough, 
add a small cup of lively yeast, and set to rise in a 
warm place. When risen well, stir in flour and knead 
it a few minutes; then set to rise again. Before 
bed-time, knead again. In the morning, roll and cut 
out like biscuit. Butter and lap one side over the 
other; let rise, and bake. In hot weather, add a 
small teaspoon of soda, well dissolved. If wanted 
for very early breakfast, roll out the night before, and 
tliey will be ready to bake when the oven is ready. 
(Yery fine.) 



Ain) USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 127 

FLANNEL EOLLS. 

Mrs. M. A. Smith. 

One quart of sweet milk, five eggs, salt, small 
spoon of butter; beat eggs well, add butter, salt, 
milk and flour enough to thicken suflaciently to pour. 
Bake in gem irons. (Excellent.) 

COEN MEAL GEIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

One cup of white corn meal; two cups of flour, 
two cups of milk, one quart of boiling water, two 
tablespoons of yeast, one tablespoon of brown sugar, 
one-quarter teaspoon of soda; one teaspoon salt. 
Scald the meal at night, with the boiling water. Beat 
well; while yet warm, stir in flour, sugar, milk and 
yeast. Let rise all night; then add soda and salt. 
Leave a cup full for the next rising. 

BEEAD PANCAKES. 

Take all the little crusts, crumbs and pieces of 
bread that are left in the bread box, or gathered from 
the table. Soak in water till soft, press through a 
colander; add milk, as many eggs as you can afibrd, 
salt, flour and baking powder, and your griddle cakes 
will be praised. 



128 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

ECONOMICAL COEN CAKES. 



Take one pint of corn-meal and scald with not 
quite a quart of boiling water; when cool add another 
pint of meal and a large handful of flour, salt, and a 
tablespoon of liquid yeast. Before baking add one- 
fourth of a teaspoon of soda dissolved in hot water; 
bake as other corn cakes. Let them raise over night if 
for breakfast. 

MILK TOAST. 

Put one quart of milk over boiling water to heat. 
When nearly boiling hot, stir in a spoon of flour 
mixed smooth in a little cold milk. Let cook a 
minute; season witli salt and butter, and pour over 
slices of toast in a deep dish. If the toast is made 
from very dry bread, moisten it in hot water before 
pouring gravy over. 

FKEKCH TOAST. 

Mrs. A. S. J. 

Make a batter of two eggs, one-half cup of milk, 
pinch of salt, and teaspoon of corn-starch. Dip thin 
slices of bread in and fry brown in a well buttered 
frying-pan. If the bread is very dry, dip in water 
first. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 129 

MOBILE BISCUIT. 



One and a half tablespoon each of hntter and lard, 
three eggs, one yeast cake, one and a half quarts of flour, 
one teaspoon of sugar, two teaspoons of salt, and 
work up with warm milk. Stir lard, butter and sugar 
together, and then beat into the flour. Beat the eggs 
into this batter. Dissolve the yeast in a little warm 
water and add. Sift the salt through with the flour. 
Lastly, mix with warm milk into a soft dough. Set 
over night; make into rolls in the morning, and raise 
a half hour before baking. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 
Two quarts flour, with 5 or 6 teaspoons baking 
powder sifted through it; rub in 2 tablespoons lard 
and I teaspoon salt; stir in with a spoon li pints 
cold water; if too soft to roll out, flour the board 
well; roll soft, cut out, and bake in a quick oven. 

SODA BISCUIT. 
Mrs. A. S. J. 

To one quart of flour add two good teaspoons of 
cream of tartar, and one of soda, and a pinch of salt. 
Sift all together. Mix soft, with sweet skim milk. 
Bake quick in a hot oven. 
9 



IBO MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

One cup of sour milk, one egg, lialf a cup of sugar, 
one tablespoon of lard, one teaspoon of soda, salt, 
Graham flour; stir to a thick batter. Do not roll out, 
but drop with the spoon into a greased dripping-pan. 

KENTUCKY BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, half a cup of butter, a pinch 
of salt; make a stiff dough with milk; knead it a 
little, then beat hard with a rolling-pin, fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Koll out and cut into small round 
biscuits. Prick with a fork and bake in a hot oven. 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT. 
A half teaspoon soda powdered fine and rubbed 
into a quart of flour; mix in a large spoon of short- 
ening and a saltspoon of salt; then stir in a cup of 
sour milk, roll soft, and bake in well-heated oven. 

EICE "WAFFLES. 

One cup of boiled rice, one pint of milk, two eggs, 
butter the Bize of a walnut, one-half teaspoon of 
soda, one teaspoon cream of tartar, flour for a thin 
batter. 



AUD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 131 

RAISED WAFFLES. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

One quart of milk, one heaping quart of flour, two 
eggs, five large spoons of yeast, one large spoon of 
melted butter, one teaspoon of salt; mix the milk, 
flour, yeast and salt over night. In the morning, 
add the eggs and butter, and bake in waffle irons. 

WAFFLES. 

Four eggs, tablespoon melted butter, one pint of 
milk, p'inch of salt, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
in flour enough to make thick batter. Heat irons 
well, before filling. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

When baking johnny cake, after it begins to brown, 
baste it often, with a rag tied to a stick, in melted 
butter. A great improvement. 

COKN-CAKE FOE BEEAKFAST. 



One pint of sifted corn-meal, one pint of Bweet 
milk, two tablespoons of flour, one tablespoon of 
sugar, two tablespoons of melted butter, one-half 
teaspoon of salt, two teaspoons of baking powder, 



132 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

one egg. Mix into a nice smooth batter, and bake in 
a hot oven twenty minutes, and serve immediately. 
It is excellent when steamed three-quarters of an 
hour, and served at dinner with the meat course. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 
Mrs. M. A. 8. 

One pint of sour milk, three eggs, one tablespoon 
of sugar, one teaspoon of soda; corn-meal, to make 
it as thick as griddle cakes. 

HOE CAKE. 

Make a very stiff batter of water and corn-meal. 
Salt it; grease a griddle, and put on a large cake, pat it 
down, and cook slowly; turn it. When done, send 
it to table on a large plate, and let each one break off 
as much as he wishes. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cup of Graham flour, two tablespoons of white 
flour, one teaspoon of sugar, one teaspoon of baking 
powder; water to make a batter a trifle thicker than 
griddle cakes. Heat gem irons quite hot, grease 
them well; fill two-thirds full, and bake in hot oven. 
(Good.) 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 133 

GEAHAM GEMS. 

One egg, half cup of sugar, beat together; one cup 
of sour milk, one teaspoon of soda, one heaping cup 
of Graham flour, one tablespoon melted butter, little 
salt. Bake in gem pans. 

COKN GEMa 

Two cups of com meal, two cups of flour, two cups 
of sweet milk, half a cup of shortening, half a cup 
of sugar, two eggs, three teaspoons of baking powder. 
Bake in gem pans. 

LAPLANDEKS. 

One egg, one cup of milk, one cup of flour, pinch 
of salt; beat well. Pour into hot gem irons well 
buttered, and bake quickly. No baking powder re- 
quired. Fill irons a little more than half full 

HOMINY MUFFINS. 

"Wash a pint of fine hominy through several waters. 
Pour boiling water on it, cover and let it soak half a 
day. Then boil it in a saucepan in half a pint of 
water, till soft enough to mash. Drain it, and mix 
it with a pint of corn-meal or wheat flour, a little 
salt, and one and a half pints of milk, and two table- 



134 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

spoons of melted butter. "WTieii tlie batter is cool 
enough, add four tablespoons yeast; cover, and keep 
warm until very light, with the surface covered with 
bubbles. Grease some muffin rings, set them on a 
hot griddle, fill them two-thirds full, and bake them 
brown on both sides. Send to the table hot, to be 
buttered quickly. 

OATMEAL MUSH. 

One pint oatmeal, 4 pints water, 1 teaspoon salt; 
cook in oatmeal cooker, or, if you have none, use a 

tin pail set in boiling water; stir from the bottom; 
will cook in Ih hours, but is better if cooked longer. 

RAISED MUFFINS. 
Mrs. Dr. Baker. 

Three cups of milk, three large spoons of melted 
butter, three large spoons of good yeast; sugar and 
salt to taste. Mix very stiff at night. In the morn- 
ing, dip the batter into iron muffin moulds, let rise, 
and bake. 

MUFFINS. 
Mrs. J. B. DeLoB. 

One egg, one large tablespoon of sugar, three cups 
of flour, half a cup of milk, two teaspoons of cream 
of tartar, one of soda. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 135 

RAISED MUFFINS. 
Mrs. M. A. S. 

One and a half pints of sweet milk, one qnart of 
flour, two eggs, two tablespoons of butter, half a cup 
of yeast. Set over night. 

CORN MUFFmS. 
Mrs. E. B. B. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of corn-meal, two cups 
of sweet milk; half a cup of sugar, one-third cup of 
butter, salt, two teaspoons of baking powder. Bake 
in muffin rings or gem pans. 

MUSH MUFFINa 

Make mush as you ordinarily do, and when cold, 
take 2 cups mush, 2 cups flour, 2 cups milk, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 of salt, I tablspoon melted 
butter, 3 eggs; bake in gem pans. 

EICE FRITTERS. 

One or more cups of cold boiled rice, half a pint 
of milk, two or three eggs, flour to make stiff batter, 
with good spoonful of baking powder. Fry in hot 
drippings. Hominy may be similarly prepared. Eat 
with butter, syrup, or jam. 



136 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

MUSH. 

When the water is boiling, stir the meal in by the 
handful, having salted the water well. Make it a 
thick smooth batter, and at the last stir in a good 
handful of flour; it helps bind it, and is better for 
frying. 

FKIED MUSH. 

When hasty pudding is made, it should be put into 
a baking tin to mould for frying. Cook slowly in 
drippings, or lard and butter. Fry to a crisp brown 
on both sides. Eat with syrup. Many prefer frying 
the mush when it is first made fresh, by dropping it 
in pats in hot drippings. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Put in a jar tepid water, with salt and yeast; half 
a cup of home yeast, or half of a two cent cake of 
compressed, will be sufficient for two or three quarts 
of water. Make a smooth batter with buckwheat 
flour of medium thickness. In the morning, beat 
well, but do not add any soda for the first or second 
bakings. Save a pint of batter for the next rising. 
It is better to take out the batter that you wish to 
keep before the soda is added, that it may not become 
too strongly impregnated with the soda. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 137 

GKIDDLE CAKES 

Of buckwheat, wlieat or Graham, may be made 
witli sour milk and eggs, and are very palatable. To 
the above, two or three quarts, use three eggs and a 
teaspoon of soda. 

POP-OVEES. 
Euchre. 

One pint of sweet milk, three eggs, nine table 
spoons of sifted flour, teaspoon of salt. Pour the 
milk upon the flour scalding hot, and stir until free 
from lumps. When cool, add the eggs, beaten to a 
foam. Bake half an hour in cups, and take from the 
oven immediately. Serve with cream and sugar, or 
sauce. 

CRUMPETS. 

One quart warm milk, half cake yeast, little salt, 
flour to make a stiff batter. Let rise, add half cup 
melted butter and bake in muffin rings. 

FKENCH PUFFS. 

One pint of sweet milk, six ounces of flour, four 
eggs, half a salts230on of salt; scald the milk and 
pour over the flour, beat until smooth, whisk the eggs 
to a froth, and add to the flour and milk when sufli- 



138 MB8. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

ciently cool. Have ready a kettle of boiling lard, 
and drop one teaspoon of the batter at a time into 
the lard, and fry a light brown; sift white sugar over 
them, or eat with syrup. 



PIES. 

Good flour and sifted, good butter and sweet lard 
are essentials to good pie crust. Use very cold water 
for wetting and roll the crust from you. A quick oven 
is necessary for almost all kinds of pies. 

If a little beaten egg is rubbed over the bottom 
crust of a pie it wiU prevent juice from soaking 
through it. 

The yolk of eggs binds the crust much better than 
the whites. Apply it to the edges with a brush. 

In all juicy pies, or when there is a tendency for 
the juice to run out, take some stiff white writing 
paper, make a roll about as large round as a penny 
and stand upright in a hole cut in the upper crust. 
Let it rest on the lower crust. Push the fruit aside 
to make room for it. Bake with this funnel in and 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 139 

the refractory juice will collect in it instead of on tlie 
oven bottom. It is not necessary to paste the paper 
together. It will keep its place without any trouble, 
and may be removed when the pie is done. 

GOOD PIE CKUST. 

One cup flour, one pinch of salt, scant teaspoon 
baking powder, sift together, and rub well into a piece 
of butter size of an egg, with cold milk. 

AlSrOTHER. 

One cup lard, half cup cold water, half teaspoon 
salt; mix the lard well in the flour, and add the water 
a little at a time, stirring with a knife. 

PIE CEUST— PLAIK. 



Three cups of sifted flour, one cup of lard, a little 
salt, a half cup of very cold water; handle as little as 
possible. Do not grease your pie-plates, they are more 
likely to stick if you do; you will find this just right. 

PEE CEUST— YERY LIGHT. 

Mix the flour and water together (same proportion 
as above), roll the paste out and lay bits of butter 



140 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

upon it, beat up the white of an egg and brush it all 
over the paste, fold it, roll it out again, and repeat the 
process till the whole of the white of egg is used; it 
will make the paste rise and become very flaky. 

YEKY KIOH PIE CEUST FOE FRUIT PIES. 

Take one pound of dried flour and one pound of 
butter. Break the butter with your fingers among 
the flour as flne as possible, and then with a little cold 
water mix into a tolerably stiff paste. Gently roll it 
passing the roller in one direction only — from you: 
After this lightly fold it over, and set it aside for a 
quarter of an hour in a cool place; then repeat the 
rolling in the same manner, and let it stand another 
quarter of an hour. This is to be repeated once more. 
Be sure to handle it as little as possible, and to keep 
it cool. Bake in a quick oven. 

Many of the best cooks of the present day make 
their pies without sugar. Wlien done they remove 
the upper crust and sweeten. It is a well known fact 
that it takes less sugar than if it is cooked in the 
pie. 

MINCE PIES. 

Mrs. L. Cnrrey. 
4 pounds lean meat, chopped fine after being cooked 
tender. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 14:1 

3 pounds chopped suet. 

8 pounds chopped apples, 

2 pounds currants. 

2 pounds raisins. 

1 pound citron. 

6 pounds brown sugar. 

1 lemon chopped up entirely, except the seeda 

■| ounce mace. 

1 tablespoon cinnamon. 

1 tablespoon allspice 

1 tablespoon cloves. 

2 tablespoons salt. 

Wet with boiled cider and cook together. 

MINCE PIES. 

2 pounds lean fresh beef, after it is chopped. 

1 pound beef suet. 

5 pounds apples chopped fine. 

2 poimds raisins — part of them chopped. 

1 pound sultana raisins. 

2 pounds currants. 

^ pound citron or candied lemon peel sliced thin. 

2^ pounds brown sugar. 

2 tablespoons cinnamon. 

1 tablespoon cloves. 

1 tablespoon allspice. 

1 tablespoon fine salt. 



14:2 MRS, OWENS' COOK BOOK 

1 nutmeg. 
1 quart cider. 
1 pint molasses. 
Mix and cook till the apple is done. 

Apples may be used for mince pies without peel- 
mg. Chopped fine, the omission will be unnoticed. 
A lady of well-known culinary ability says chopped 
potatoes may be used instead of apples. Soak ovei 
night in vinegar; no one will know the difference 

SUMMER MINCE PIES. 

Mrs. £. B. B. 

4 Boston crackers soaked soft in cold water. 

1 cup molasses. 
■| cup vinegar. 

2 teaspoons cinnamon. 
1 teaspoon cloves. 

1 teaspoon allspice, 
ilaisins, currants, butter or suet. 
Sweeten to taste. This makes three pies. 

TOMATO PIE. 
Mra. A. B. J. 

Take half-ripe tomatoes, pare and slice them, season 
with ginger, nutmeg, and cinnamon and plenty of 
sugar. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 143 

KIPE TOMATO PIE. 
Aunt Lou. 

Prepare your pastry as for an apple pie ; slice in as 
many ripe tomatoes as will fill the plate; sprinkle a 
single handful of flour over it, also two teaspoons 
lemon extract and one teacup white sugar; wet the 
edge of the bottom crust before covering with the top 
crust. The fruit will be cooked when the crust is 
baked sufficiently. 

KHUBAKB PIE. 

Grandma Graves. 

Peel the stalks. Cut into half inch pieces. Pour 
boiling water over and let remain until cold. This 
takes the bitter sour from the rhubarb, thus saving 
much sugar. When cool, strew lavishly with sugar, 
a little butter and a sprinkling of flour. Half an 
orange improves the flavor. 

[Canned pie plant is one of the most useful adjuncts 
to a winter supply of fruits. Nothing tastes better 
than a pie made of it in mid winter.] 

DKIED APPLE PIES. 



Soak the apples until quite soft. Then stew till 
soft enough to go through a colander. Season with 



1-14 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

lemon, add sugar to taste and one beaten egg for every 
two pies, and a teaspoon of butter to each pie. A 
tablespoon of cream may be added. Mix and bake 
with two crusts. This makes just the nicest pie of 
dried apples I ever saw or tasted. 

GKANDMA GEAYES' APPLE PIE 
FOR WINTER. 

Four or five tart apples peeled and quartered. Slice 
small and lay evenly around on the pie paste. Take 
one cup sugar, small pieces of butter, some cinnamon 
and a sprinkling of flour over the whole, and two 
spoons water. Cover with rich paste and bake slowly. 
Green apples should be stewed before making into 
pies. 

ENGLISH CURRANT PIE. 

Take the large English currants, cleanse carefully, 
and fitew in plenty of water. Sweeten, and thicken 
with flour till of the consistency of rich cream. Bake 
with two crusts. A very good pie in the spring when 

pie material is scarce. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 
Remove the seeds of the pumpkin, cut into small 
pieces, steam till tender, then remove peel aM mash 
fine with Victor vegetable masher. Or, cut up, 
peel, and boil in a very little water till well done 
and dry. After mashing, *-oeach quart add one 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 145 

quart of milk, two teacups of sugar, one teaspoon of 
cinnamon and ginger, one teaspoon salt, four table- 
spoons of com starch or three eggs; bake in a custard 
pan with an under crust. 

SQUASH PIES. 

Boil and sift a good dry squash, thin it with boiling 
milk until it is about the consistency of tJiick milk 
porridge. To every quart of this add three eggs, two 
great spoons of melted butter, nutmeg, or ginger if 
you prefer, and sweeten quite sweet with sugar. 
Bake in a deep plate with an undercrust. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Boil till tender; rub throug^h a colander or mash 
fine, and proceed as for squash pies. 

CEEAM PIE. 
Mrs. L. S. Hodge. 

One-half pint milk, one egg, one tablespoon com 
starch. Sweeten to taste and flavor. Cook over 
water. Bake the crust alone in the pie plate. Put 
the mixture in and no more cooking is required. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One cup sugar, one and one-half cups sweet milk, 
10 



146 MBS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

one-lialf cup sweet cream or a tablespoon melted but- 
ter, one egg, one cocoanut grated. Bake "without 
upper crust. Desiccated cocoanut is nearly as nice 
as the fresh. 

KAISIN PIE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 cup raisins — seeded. 
Stew until soft. Thicken with flour, like gravy. 
Sweeten to the taste and bake with two crusts. 

BEKEY PIE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

■| cup cream. 

1^ cups sugar. Make a crust as for custard pie and 
fill with fresh fruit and pour mixture over. Bake 
immediately. 

OEANGE PIE. 

Mrs. M. A. S. 

One large or two small oranges, grated rind and 
juice, yolks of three eggs beaten with one cup sugar. 
Mix this with orange and add one cup milk or cream. 
Bake till the pie paste is done. Beat the whites with 
little sugar and put on top and brown. 



AND U8EFTJL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 147 

LEMON PIE. 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cnp sugar, 
one cup water, one tablespoon corn starch or two of 
flour, yolks of two eggs well beaten. Mix all together 
and cook in a basin over water. Line a pie plate with 
paste, put in the mixture and bake till the crust is 
done. Then whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth 
add a tablespoon of sugar, spread over and brown in 
the oven. 

LEMON PIE. 
Miletus Swinney, Monmouth, 111. 

Two lemons, four eggs, two spoons melted butter, 
eight spoons sugar, squeeze the juice of both lemons 
and grate the rind of one. Stir together the yolks, 
sugar, butter, juice, and rind. Cover the pan with 
crust, pour the mixture in and bake till the crust is 
done. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir in four 
spoons sugar, put it on the pie and set it in the oven 
for a delicate browning. This is for two pies. 

LEMON-POTATO PIE. 

One raw potato grated; one lemon grated, with 
juice; one cup sugar; one cup water; bake with 
two crusts. 



148 MB8. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

ANOTHER LEMO]^ PIE. 

•WITH TWO 0EUST8. 

For three pies take three lemons, grated rind 
and jnice, three tablespoons sugar, same of flour, three 
eggs, one pint of syrup, mix well. ( Excellent.) 

EMANCIPATION PIE. 

Mrs. A. S. J. 

For two pies take two lemons, squeeze out juice ; 
remove seeds. Chop rind and pulp very fine with 
one cup of seeded raisins. Add juice and one-half 
cup sugar and one cup water. Spread a layer of this 
mixture on the hottom crust, then roll out a very thin 
crust and lay on. Then another layer of the mixture, 
then the top crust. The best pie I ever ate. 

[We think a little thickening improves it. — Ed.J 

Wild grapes may be put up for winter use in sorg- 
ham or molasses. Fill a jar with grapes and pour the 
molasses over until covered with it. Tie a cloth over 
and in winter it will be found to be of a very rich 
color and flavor, and is delicious for pies. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

One cup milk, yolks of two eggs, three or four 
grated apples, small spoon of melted butter, half cup 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 149 

sugar, nntmeg to flavor, small pinch of salt. Bake in 
one crust. Make a frosting with the whites of eggs 
and two spoons sugar. Brown delicately. 

CUSTAED PIE. 

Three eggs, not quite a pint of milk, pinch of salt, 
three tablespoons sugar, flavor with nutmeg. Bake 
in a large pie plate with one crust. The whites maj 
be left out for frosting if preferred. 

CUSTAED PIE, 

THAT MAKES ITS OWN ORUST. 

Three eggs, three tablespoons sugar, one-half cup 
Grah-am flour, salt and flavor. The flour settles to the 
bottom and forms a good crust. Fill the pie pan with 
milk, mixing a part of it with the other ingredients 
first. 

PEACH PIE 

Cut the pared peaches and spread the same as 
apples. Sprinkle with sugar and a little flour. If 
the peaches are very juicy no water wiU be required. 
Bake with two crusts, 

CEANBEEEY TAET PIE. 

Stew cranberries — allowing a pint of sugar and a 
pint of water to a quart of berries. Line a pie plate 



150 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

with paste. Fill with the stewed berries. Pnt nar- 
row strips of pie crust across the top. A quart should 
make two good pies. 

CUKKANT PIE. 

This fruit makes the best pie when green. The' 
main thing is to put in sugar enough. Dredge with 
a small handful of flour and put in about two table- 
spoons water. Bake with two crusts, fifteen or twen- 
ty minutes. 

HUCKLEBERKY PIE. 

This pie is improved by mixing currants with the 
berries. It is made in the same manner as the above. 
If no currants are at hand put in a little vinegar. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Of course it is nicer when eating to have the cher- 
ries pitted, but either way is admissible. Put in the 
pie-plate plenty of fruit, sweeten well and sprinkle 
with flour. No water is needed. The cherries will 
cook by the time the crust is done. 

CHERRY PEE. 

WITH ONE CRUST. 

Take half cherries (pitted), and half chopped 
apples; cook together; sweeten, stir in a little flour, 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 151 

cinnamon, and a bit of ginger. Bake without upper 
crust. 

It is unnecessary to detail each kind of fruit in pie 
making. Having made one or two that are similar 
there is judgment enough acquired to make others. 

Pie plant may he used very largely for pies as the 
principal filling, by using enough of other fruit to 
flavor. The pie plant readily takes to itself any flavor. 
Thus with a scarcity of currants, gooseberries, apples, 
etc., the bulk of the pie may be made of the rhubarb 
with but little of the other fruit. 

FEIED PIES. 

Make a good biscuit dough, roll thin about the size 
of a pie plate, put a spoon of nice dried apple sauce 
or any other kind in, turn the crust over, cut out with 
the edge of a saucer to shape it nicely, and fry in hot 
lard like doughnuts. 

STKAWBEEKY SHOET CAKE. 

Make a very rich biscuit dough; roll out half an 
inch thick, and put on a round pie tin. Spread over 
it butter or lard and alight sprinkling of flour. Lay 
another crust over this, bake. When done remove 
the upper crust and spread on a thick layer of straw- 
berries and sugar after buttering the crust well. Lay 



152 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

on the upper. Butter tliat and spread over more ber- 
ries. If any juice is left pour it on. This will be 
found easier than splitting a thick short cake. And 
it is better to make two or more small cakes than one 
large one, for the reason that they can be prepared 
fresh for late comers, and for a large table full may 
be dished out by more than one person. 

If strawberries are sandy they must be put in a 
colander and rinsed thoroughly. Then put in a bowl 
and sprinkled with sugar, for an hour or two before 
using. Mash them if large. 

ORANGE SHORT CAE:E. 

Sprinkle sugar over the sliced oranges for two or 
three hours before using. One quart flour, two table- 
spoons butter, two teaspoons baking powder. Cold 
water. Bake, split open and put the orange between. 
Eat with sweetened cream. 

Any fruit either fresh, stewed, or canned, may be 
used for short cake. 

PEACH SHORT CAKE. 

Mrs. F. B. Smith. 

One tablespoon butter, two loaf sugar, one egg, 
three cups flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, one tea- 
spoon soda. Bake in round tins. When done divide 
it, butter and cover with peaches sliced and sugared. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 153 

HAED WINTEE SHOET CAKE. 

In the absence of fruit of all kinds, make a rich 
short cake and pour over it sweetened cream. In 
many new farming districts there is no fruit whatever 
and it requires a great deal of ingenuity to get up 
desserts. 

BEOTHEE JONATBLO". 
Mrs. A. S. J. 

To one pint buttermilk add one teaspoon soda, little 
salt and flour to make a thin batter. Have ready 
some tart apples sliced thin. Mix in the batter. 
Grease pudding dish and pour the mixture in. Bake 
slowly or steam. Sweet milk may be used with 
cream of tartar and soda. Eat warm with sweetened 
cream or any rich sauce. 

APPLE POT PIE. 

Fill a basin one-third full of tart apples pared, 
quartered, and cored. Pour on boiling water and 
place on stove to cook. When they begin to boil put 
over them a crust made as for biscuit, cover closely 
and cook about twenty minutes. Eat with sugar and 
cream or hard pudding sauce. 

BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Take one quart flour, one tablespoon lard, the same 
of butter, one teaspoon soda dissolved in a little hot 



154 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

water, two teaspoons cream tartar sifted through the 
flour; a little salt, enough milk to make the floijr into 
a soft dough ; roll out the paste less than half an inch 
thick, cut it in squares and place in the center of each 
an apple, pared and cored; bring the corners together; 
place each dumpling in a small, square, floured cloth; 
tie the top, leaving room enough to swell; boil fifty 
minutes. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Pare, quarter and core the apples. Make a rich, 
stiff biscuit dough. Roll and cut in strips, and take 
four pieces of apple for each dumpling and wrap two 
or three strips of dough around them, pinching the 
ends together. Put a quart of water in a pudding or 
baking disli, and one cup of sugar, and a small piece 
of butter. Let it get to boiling on top of the stove. 
Then place the dumplings in and bake till crust and 
apples are done, 

APPLE PUFFS. 

1 pint of milk, or part milk and part water. 

2 beaten eggs. 

Make a batter rather thicker than griddle cakes. 
Two teaspoons baking powder, salt. If water is used 
put in a spoon of melted butter. Pare, core and chop 
apples fine. Half fill buttered cups with the chopped 



AND irSEFUL HOTJSEHOLD HINTS. 155 

apple, pour in the batter till two-thirds full. Set in 
steamer and steam about an hour. Serve hot with 
cream and sugar flavored, or liquid sauce. 

DEW DEOP APPLES. 

Pare and core, without splitting, some small sized 
tart apples, and boil them very gently, with one lemon 
for every six apples, till a straw will pass through 
them. Make a syi-up of half a pound of white sugar 
for each pound of apples; put the apples unbroken 
and the lemons sliced into the syrup, and boil gently 
till the apples look clear; then take them up carefully, 
so as not to break them, and add an ounce, or more, 
of clarified isinglass to the syrup, and let it boil up; 
then lay a slice of lemon on each apple, and strain the 
syrup over them. 

PEACH PANDOWDY. 

Mrs. E. J. Wilber. 

One quart of canned peaches. Pour into a two 
quart basin. Make a batter of one cup milk, one 
egg, butter size of an egg, melted, two teaspoons 
baking powder, flour to make thick enough to roll out. 
Cover over the peaches. Put paper over. Bake till 
the crust is done. Eat with sauce made of one cup 
sugar, one-half cup butter, three cups water, small 
spoon com starch, boiled a long time. (Yery nice.) 



156 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 



CAKE. 



The "cup" used in the recipes in this book holds 
half a pint. (See " Weights and Measures," p. 356.) 

"Cooking butter" is generally a rancid, nnSt com- 
modity for cooking in any shape. Those who nse 
creamery for the table, can procure dairy butter sev- 
eral cents a pound cheaper that is good and sweet, 
and will do nicely for cooking. 

Eggs, if whites and yolks are beaten separately, 
give best results. Water may be substituted for 
milk, and baking powder for soda and cream of tar- 
tar in the following recipes. Flour should be sifted, 
and baking powder or cream tartar sifted with it. 

If the oven is thought to be too hot do not leave 
the door open, but lift one of the stove lids off a lit- 
tle way, for a short time. 

If coffee sugar is used, roll it fine. Any sugar 
makes better cake by sifting it. If a broom splinter 
does not adhere to the cake, it is done. 

If a cake has to be turned or moved, do it very 
gently. 

Since the alarming adulterations of almost every- 
thing used in cooking, a chemist advises the use of 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS- 157 

tartaric acid in place of cream of tartar. It costs 
about twice as much., but half the quantity suffices, 
and there is no difficulty in procuring this pure. 

BAKING POWDEK. 

6 ounces of starch. 

6 ounces of bi-carbonate of soda. 

4 ounces of tartaric acid. 

Powder and sift several times, and you will bave 
a cheaper article than you can buy, and will have it 
pure. Keep it from the air. The main thing in 
preparing one's own baking powder is to sift it times 
enough. The above is a reliable formula, and may 
be safely used. 

Almonds are blanched by pouring on boiling water. 
The skins will then rub off easily. If one applica- 
tion is not sufficient, another will be. The skin is 
tough and bard to digest. 

In using fruit, dredge it with flour. 

The whites of eggs will beat up much better if the 
eggs are kept in cold water for an hour. 

Do not begin to grate a nutmeg at the stalk end- 
It will prove hollow throughout. 



158 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

Cochineal for cake or candy coloring sliould be 
dissolved in a little water, and strained through muB- 
lin. Coloring may be bought abeady prepared at 
fancy groceries. 

When frosting cake, dip the knife frequently in 
cold water. 

It will sometimes be found that a trifle more or 
less flour is needed than the recipe calls for. This 
can only be accounted for by the known peculiarities 
of difierent brands of flour. 

Unless otherwise directed, work butter and sugar 
to a cream; add the beaten yolks of eggs, then the 
wetting and flour, a little at a time alternately, then 
the whites, and lastly the fruit, if used. 

When jelly tins are to be used, butter them, and 
then dust some flour over them; then turn upside 
down and shake it off. This prevents sticking. 

To beat the whites of eggs quickly, put in a pincti 
of salt. Salt cools and also freshens them. 

Cookies and small cakes require a quick oven. 

Place a rim of stiff paper about a cake to retain 
the frosting in place until it sets. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 159 

FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Hattie. 

Take one teaspoon of gelatine and dissolve it in 
three tablespoons of warm water; then add one cup 
of powdered sugar and beat until smooth. Flavor 
with whatever you like. 

GLAZING FOR CAKE 

Take the beaten white of one egg, stir it well in a 
basin with a little water, let boil, and while boiling, 
put in a few drops of cold water; then stir in a cup 
of powdered sugar. Boil to a foam, and then use. 

FROSTING FOR CAKE. 
M. A. W. 

White of one egg beaten stiff, five tablespoons of 
white sugar, boiled twenty minutes in enough water 
to dissolve it. Stir in the egg froth warm; add one 
teaspoon of corn starch dissolved in a little water and 
lemon extract. 

BOILED FROSTING. 

Two cups of sugar boiled with little water till it 
will click in cold water; whites of two eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth; then add to the syrup. 



160 MKG. O wens' cook BOOK 

QUICK FKOSTING. 

Take the white of one egg and stir into it all the 
pulverized sugar it will take; spread on the cake, and 
smooth with a knife dipped in water now and then. 

BOILED ICING. 

Whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. 

1 pint of sugar melted in water and boiled. 

Add to it the eggs, and beat until cold. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

•| cake of chocolate, grated fine. 

•| cup of sugar, -^ cup of milk or cream. 

Boiled, and stirred to a paste. 

COFFEE CAKE. 
Mrs. A. 8. J. 
1 cup of coffee. 
1 cup of molasses. 
1 cup of sugar. 
1 cup of butter or drippings. 
1 cup of chopped raisins. 
1 teaspoon of soda. 
1 teaspoon of cloves. 
1 teaspoon of cinnamon. 
1 teaspoon of nutmeg. 
1 cup five times fuU of flotir. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 161 

ANGELS' FOOD. 

IN OTHER WORDS, WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

1-| cups of pulverized sugar. 
1 cup of flour. 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 
Whites of 10 eggs. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Sift the sugar 
two or three times, and add it very lightly, to the 
eggs. Sift the cream of tartar through the flour, 
after sifting the flour alone, four times. Add it very 
carefully, mixing it as gently as possible. Then add 
rose-water to flavor with. Some prefer lemon. Put 
it into a bright cakepan, not buttered, and bake in a 
moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour. Try 
it with a straw. Let it cool off gradually by leaving 
the oven door open. Turn the pan upside down on 
the tube, if it has one; if not, set it up on some- 
thing. "When entirely cold, take out. (Very deli- 
cious.) 

EVERYDAY CAKE. 

Mrs. P. W. Van Bergen. 
•§ cup of butter. 
§ cup of milk. 
1^ cups of sugar. 
2^ cups of flour. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoon of vanilla. 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

11 



162 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

No. 1. 

NOT IN LAYERS. 

Mrs. Dr. Evans. 

1 cup of sugar. 

■^ cup of butter, scant. 
■| cup of hot water. 
1-| cup of flour. 

2 eggs. 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Bake in a square tin. 

Spread frosting all over the top. Cut in squares. 

FROSTINa FOR THE ABOVE. 

£ cup of sweet German chocolate. 
I cup of sugar. 
1 tablespoon of sweet cream. 

1 egg, well beaten; all simmered together in a dish. 
Set in boiling water, till it is a thick paste. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

No. 2. 
Mrs. Hewlett, Niles, Mich. 

1 pint of pulverized sugar. 
1 half cake of chocolate. 

Cooked to a smooth paste in a very little milk; 
4 eggs beaten separately. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HI«T8. 163 

1 teaBpoon of vanilla. 

1 cup of flour. 

Beat yolks and sugar. The whole should then be 
stirred slowly together, adding the flour by degrees. 
Bake in square shallow pan and frost. This cut in 
two inch squares, with white sponge caJta, makes a 
very pretty appearance. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

No. 8. 
Mrs. Hewlett, Niles, Mich. 

1 fall cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3^ cups of sifted flour. 

1 scant cup of milk. 

5 eggs, leaving out the whites of two. 

3 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream; add the 
milk; then the eggs, well beaten, and the floui lastly, 
with the baking powder sifted in. 

Bake in a dripping pan. 

The cake should be about an inch thick when done. 

While hot, turn on to a perfectly flat surface, and 
spread with a frosting made with the whites of the 
two eggs, and one and a half cups of pulveiized 
sugar, six tablespoons of chocolate, and one of esp^^ce 
of vanilla. 



164 MRS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

CORA BELLS' WHITE CAKE. 

Cora Bell H., Niles, Mich. 

^ cup of butter, scant. 

2 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of milk. 
2| cups of flour. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 

3 teaspoons of baking powder. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. O. Blackman, Chicago. 

1 cup Dutter. 

2 cups sugar. 

I cup sweet milk. 

3 cups sifted flour. 

I cup stoned raisins, chopped. 
3 teaspoons baking powder. 
Whites of 4 eggs. 
Flavor with lemon. 

Note. — In the recipes given in this book, when 
the word "cup" is used it has reference to the tea- 
cup in common use, which holds half a pint. I 
have, as far as possible, given the recipes by meas- 
ure, instead of by weight; but when the recipes are 
used which specify the amounts by weight, the table 
of "Relation of Weights to Measures," page 356, 
will be of service where scales are not convenient. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 165 

LOYE CAKE. 
Mrs. L. S. H. 

1^ pounds of flour. 
1 pound of sugar. 
^ pound of butter. 
3 eggs. 
■| pint of milk. 

1 pound of raisins. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 
1 teaspoon of soda. 

Spice to taste. 

BLACK CAKE. 
Mrs. L. Currej. 

1 pound of flour. 

1^ pounds of brown sugar. 

1^ pounds of butter. 

3 pounds of raisins. 
3 pounds of currants. 
•| pound of citron. 

1 cup of molasses. 
1 wine-glass of rose-water. 

10 eggs. Season with, cloves, cinnamon, and mace, 
to taste. Better have too little, than too much. 



1.66 MllS. OW'KNS' COOK BnoK 

ENGLISH FRUIT CAKE. 

•J a cake of compressed yeast. 

1 pint of flour; make a sponge. 

■^ teaspoon of salt. 

£ pounds of currants. 

1 cup of chopped raisins. 

1 cup of sugar. 

"I cup of shortening. 

1 ounce of citron. 

1 teaspoon of lemon extract. 

Let the sponge rise ; then knead like bread. When 
light again, work in ail the other ingredients ; place 
in the pan for baking. When light, bake. 

FEUIT CAKE. 
Mrs. E. B. Baldwin. 

2 pounds of flour. 
2 pounds of sugar. 
2 pounds of butter. 

6 pounds of currants. 
4 pounds of citron. 
10 pounds of raisins. 

1 pound of almonds. 
20 eggs. 

2 wine-glasses of rose-water. 
1 ounce of mace. 

1 ounce of cinnamon. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 167 

^ ounce of cloves. 

2 nutmegs. 

The yellow of three fresh lemons grated. Beat the 
bvitter to a cream; add the sugar; beat with the hand 
until very light; add the rose-water, then add 
the eggs (they must be well beaten), and the flour- 
next, the spices, lemon and blanched almonds, chop- 
ped fine. Lastly add the fruit, dredged with a little 
flour. The raisins should *be chopped not very fine, 
and the citron shredded fine. Bake from four to six 
hours. 

[If fruit cake is allowed to stay in the oven till the 
fire dies out, it is a great improvement. Plan so as 
to make it after dinner, and get it about done before 
the fire decreases much; then leave it till bed-time. 
If fruit cake cracks on the top, it is because the 
oven is too hot when first put in. In place of wine 
or other liquors, you can use an extra egg and a 
trifle more spices.] 

FKUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. M. A. Smith. 

1 pound of butter. 
1 pound of sugar. 
1 pound of flour. 
8^ pounds of currants. 



168 MKS. OWE^S' COOK BOOK 



2^ pounds of raisins. 
■| pound of citron. 



10 eggs. 

-| teaspoon of soda. 
^ cup of molasses. 

Cinnamon, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and wine-glass 
rose-water. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

Mrs. F. W. Van B. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 cup of molasses. 
1 cup of sweet milk. 
1-| cups of raisins. 
6 cups of flour. 

3 ego's. 

"I teaspoon of soda. 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

Spice to suit taste. 

POYEETY FEUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 



1 teacup of dried apples. 
^ teacup of sugar. 
•| teacup of butter. 
1^ teacups of flour. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 169 

■| teacup of sour milk. 

legg. 

2 teaspoons of cinnamon. 

1 teaspoon of cloves. 

1 teaspoon of saleratus. 

Soak the apples over night and chop fine, and stew 
two '.r three hours in sugar, until they are candied a 
littlsi 

VILLAGE FRUIT CAKE. 
Tribune Home. 

1 pound of butter. 

1 pound of dark brown sugar. 

2 nutmegs. 

2 teaspoons of cloves. 

3 teaspoons of cinnamon. 
10 eggs. 

2 pounds of figs (chopped fine). 

2 pounds of chopped raisins. 

2 pounds of currants. 

2 pounds of almonds shelled, blanched, and chopped. 

1 pint of black molasses. 

1 teaspoon of soda. ■ 
■J pound of citron. 

2 cup rose-water. 
1 pound flour. 



170 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

MY WEDDING CAKE. 

Mrs. F. W. Van B. 

1 pound of sugar. 
1 pound of butter. 
1 pound of flour. 

1 pound of citron. 
3 pounds of raisins. 

3 pounds of currants. 

3^ pounds of eggs, minus shells. 

2 wine-glasses of rose-water. 
1 cup of molasses. 

4 nutmegs. 

3 teaspoons each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice. 

PORK CAEIE. 

1 pound of fat salt pork, chopped fine, dissolved in 
one pint of boiling water. 
3 cups of brown sugar, 
1 cup of molasses. 

1 pound or more of raisins and currants. 

2 tablespoons of cinnamon. 
1 teaspoon of cloves. 

1 teaspoon of soda. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 
2 nutmegs. 

7 cups of flour. 



AlTD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 171 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. C. ButterfieldL 
1 cup of sugar. 2^ cups flour. 
1 cup of molasses. 
£ cup of butter. 
1 cup of milk. 
1 cup of stoned raisins. 
1 tablespoon eacli of allspice and cinnamon. 
1 teaspoon of soda. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. M. A. S 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 cup of sweet milk. 
4rJ cups of flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, 
nutmeg and mace. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 

OLOYE CUP CAEIE. 

Mrs. A. 8. J. 
1 cup of sugar. 

1 cup of butter. 3 scant cups flour. 
1 cup of raisins chopped. 

1 cup of milk or water. 

2 well beaten eggs. 



172 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

Dissolve 1 teaspoon of soda in the milk and sift 
2 teaspoons cream of tartar in tlie flour. 
2 teaspoons each of cinnamon and cloves. 

LADY CAKE. 

Mrs. O. Jones. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of white sugar, 
1 cup of milk. 

6 eggs, well beaten. 

1 quart of flour. 

■| pound of raisins chopped. 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

^ teaspoon of soda. 

Nutmeg, or any other flavoring. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. S. E. Duncan. 

Break one egg into a teacup. Fill the cup with 
cream; a scant cup of sugar; one and a half cups of 
flour, a pinch of salt; scant half teaspoon of soda. 
This recipe is very nice for patty pans, and excellent 
for layer cakes. If used for the latter, break two 
eggs into the cup instead of one. Flavor with lemon. 



AND USEFUL HOtJSEHOLD HINTS. 173 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. S. E. Duncan. 

2 cups of sugar. 

2 cups of flour. 

4 eggs. 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. Flavoring. 

•| cup of boiling water. Flavor to taste. Add the 
water last. The cake may seem too thin, but will 
come all right from the oven. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 
^ cup of butter. 
1^ cups of sugar. 
2^ cups of flour. 
■| cup of milk. 
■| teaspoon of soda. 
1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 
Yolks of 6 eggs. Yanilla. 

SILYER CAKE. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 

■| cup of sweet milk. 

■| teaspoon of soda. 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

Whites of 6 eggs. Lemon. 



174 MKS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

This is an excellent recipe for many kinds of layer 
cakes; also, for a liglit fruit cake. 

COEN STAKCH CAKE. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

^ cup of butter. 

■| cup of corn starch. 

1 teaspoon of baking powder. 

1 cup of sugar. 

^ cup of sweet milk. 

1 cup of flour. 

COEN STAECH CAKE. 

G. W. Ashard, Vermilion, Dak. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 cup of sweet milk. 

1 cup of corn starch. 

2 cups of flour. 

Whites of 7 eggs, and yolk of 1 egg. 

1 teaspoon of soda, 2 of cream of tartar, or 3 of 
baking powder. Mix flour, starch and cream of 
tartar together. Flavor with almond. 

MAEBLE CAKE. 
Light part — 

2 cups of white sugar. 
1 cup of butter 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 175 

1 cup of sweet milk. 
3 cups of flour. 
Whites of 7 eggs. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 
1 teaspoon of soda. 

1 teaspoon of lemon. 

Dark part — 

2 cups of brown sugar. 
1 cup of molasses. 

1 cup of butter. 

■| cup of sour cream. 

5 cups of flour. 

Yolks of 7 eggs. Pinch of pepper. 

2 tablespoons of cinnamon. 

1 tablespoon each of nutmeg, cloves and allspice. 
1 teaspoon each of vanilla and soda. Butter 
the cake tin and put in alternate spoonsful of the 
light and dark batter. 

FEATHEE CAKE. 
Mrs. J. H. Wilson. 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 cup of milk. 

2^ cups of flour. Butter, size of an egg. Lemon 
flavor. 

^ teaspoon of soda. Teaspoon of cream of tartar. 
Bake slowly. 



176 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

POKCUPINE CAKE. 

1 egg. 

•| Clip of butter. 

1 cup of milk. 

1 large cup of sugar. 

2^ cups of flour. 

1^ teaspoons of baking powder. 

When the cake is cold, stick a teacup of soft 
almonds over the top, and pour over the cream, made 
as follows: 2 eggs, 1 quart of milk, 1 cup of sugar, 
2 tablespoons of corn stareh, -^ teaspoon vanilla; 
cooked over hot water. 

SUKPEISE CAKE. 

Mrs. H. F. Marvin 
legg. 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 large tablespoon of butter. 

1 cup of water. 2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. Flavoring. 

WATEKMELOJS" CAKE. 
White part — 

2 cups of pulverized sugar. 
■| cup of butter. 

§ cup of sweet milk. 

3 cups of flour. 
Whites of 5 eggs. 

1 tablespoon of baking powder. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 177 

Red part — 

1 cup of red sugar sand. 
^ cup of butter. 

^ cup of milk. 

2 cups of flour. 
5 yolks of eggs. 

■| pound of raisins. 
1 tablespoon of baking powder. 
Put the red all in tbe center of the pan, and the 
white around the outside. 

SNOW-BALL CAKE. 

Mrs. C. B. 

1 cup of sugar. 1^ cups flour. 

■| cup of butter, worked to a cream. 
Whites of 3 eggs well beaten. 
■^ cup of milk. 

2 large teaspoons of baking powder. 

QUAKEE POUND CAKE. 
Mrs. L. S. Hodge. 

2 eggs. 2 cups flour. 
1 cup of sugar. 
•| cup of butter. 
^ cup of sweet milk. 
^ cup of chopped raisins. 
1 whole nutmeg. Scant half teaspoon of soda. 
12 



178 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

SODA POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. C. S. Johnston, Harford, Pa. 
1 cup of butter. 

1 cap of sugar. 

2 cups of flour. 
4 eggs. 

Small teaspoon of soda. Flavoring. Kicli and 
moist; will keep a long time. 

AMEKICAN HOME CAKE. 

Stir one pound sugar and three-quarters pound 
butter to a cream; have some one beat tbe whites of 
sixteen eggs to a froth; add to the cream, and, before 
mixing, add one pound flour in which you have added 
one and one-half teaspoons of cream of tartar ; do not 
beat, but stir one way gently; then add peach flavor, 
and half a teaspoon of soda dissolved in a tablespoon 
of vinegar. I set it in the oven, and at the same time 
a pan containing three pints of water; when it has 
evaporated the cake is done. 

WHITE P0U:N^D CAKE. 

1 cup fine white sugar. 

^ cup butter. 

Beat to a cream and add whites of two eggs.. 

Then beat ten minutes. 

1 teaspoon cream tartar. 



AND us5;ful household hints. 179 

•| teaspoon soda. 

"I cup sweet mi'k. 

1^ cups flour. 

1 teaspoon lemon. 

Beat all togeth'^.r fifteen minutes. 

Bake one hour in moderate oven, in a round dish. 

PRESIDEJ!^TIAL POUND CAKE. 
Mr«i. M. A. Allen 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pound butter. 

1 pound flour. 
10 eggs. 

■J teaspoon baking powder put in the flour. 

2 tablespoons sweet milk. 

Beat the whites of the Pggs separately, and add them 
the last. 

PKIZE POUND CAKE, 
Mra L. B H. 

1 cup sugar. 
■| cup butter. 
■^ cup milk. 

1 cup chopped raisins 

2 cups flour. 
1 nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon soda. 



180 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. M. A. Smih. 

1-| cups butter. 

3 cups sugar. 

4 cups flour. 
■| cup milk. 

5 eggs. 

1 teaspoon of soda. 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. Rub butter and 
sugar to a cream,, then add the yolks, milk, juice and 
grated rind of one lemon. The flour and whipped 
whites to be added alternately. Will make two loaves. 

BIRTH-DAY CAKE. 

Annie and Marrion. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 

4 eggs. 

1 cup of milk. 

1 teaspoon of soda. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the 
beaten yolks of eggs; the milk with soda dissolved 
in it; the flour with the cream of tartar sifted in it; 
and, lastly, the whites beaten to a froth. Bake in a 
large dripping-pan, and frost heavily. When the 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 181 

frosting is partly dry, mark it off in small squares 
and put half an English walnut meat on each one. 
(This is a very delicious cake.) 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Whites of 15 eggs. 

1 pound of sugar. 

1 pound of flour. 

^ pound of citron. 

■^ pound of butter. Flavor to suit the taste, 

SPLENDID DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. F. W. Van B. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 
■| cup of milk. 
Whites of 6 eggs. 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

HOLLIS CAKE. 

Mrs. Nellie Roe. 
■| cup of butter. 
2 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of milk. * 

3^ cups of flour. 
8 eggs. 
1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 



182 MRS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

^ teaspoon of soda. 

1 teaspoon of lemon. 

Put soda in half the milk, the yolks of eggs in 
the other half. Beat whites stiJBP, and put in last. 
This cake requires a great deal of beating. Make 
one very large loaf, or two small ones. 

1, 2, 3, 4, CAKE. 

Mrs. Nellie Roe. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 

4 eggs. 

1 teaspoon of soda. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 

Be sure to put in all the flour. Ko better is made, 
in my opinion, if properly beaten and .baked. Is 
nice frosted. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Duncan, Sing Sing, N. Y. 

^ cup milk. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 cups flour. 

4 eggs. 

1 tablespoon baking powder. 

2 cups walnut or hickory nut meats. 



in) USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 183 

PLYMOUTH CAKE. 

Mrs. L. 8. H. 
1 cup of butter. 
3 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of milk. 
3 eggs. 
3^ cups of flour. Small teaspoon of saleratuB. 

JENNY LIND CAKE. 

Mrs. L. 8. H. 
1^ cups of butter. 

3 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of milk. 

4 cups of flour. 

5 eggs. 

■^ teaspoon of soda. 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

BUCKEYE CAKE. 

Mrs. C. 8. Johnston. 
3 eggs. 

1^ cups of sugar. 
-| cup of butter. . 
■^ cup of milk. 

2 cups of flour 

■^ teaspoon of soda. 
1 teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
milk. 



184 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

SISTER JULIA'S CUP CAKE. 

1 egg. 

1 cup of sweet milk. 

3 cups of flour. 

1 cup of sugar. 

■| cup of butter. 

•| teaspoon of soda, 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

1 cup each of sifted flour and coffee sugar. 

3 eggs; 1 large teaspoon baking powder. 

Stir quickly, pour in<o square tin and bake in hot 
oven; turn on flat surface, spread with jelly, and roll. 

SPONGE cae:e. 

Mrs. G. G. Bennett, "Washington, Iowa. 

A good pattj-pan, loaf or layer cake, 

4 eggs. 

4 tablespoons of water. 
1^ cups of sugar. 
1^ cups of flour. 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 



SPONGE CAKE 



1 quart of sugar. 
1 quart of flour. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 185 

12 eggs; pinch of salt and flavoring. 
Bake in a dripping-pan. Requires no baking pow- 
der, as tlie eggs lighten it sufficiently, 

MOLASSES SPONGE. 

3 eggs. 

1 cup of molasses. 
1^ cups of flour. 

1 teaspoon of soda. Ginger and cloves, teaspoon 
each. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. G. B., Sioux Falls, Dak 

Whites of 5 eggs, beaten to a froth on a large 
platter. Add carefully 1 cup of sugar, and -| cup of 
flour, with -^ teaspoon of cream of tartar sifted 
through it. Stir in lightly. Flavor with rose. 

DAKOTA CAKE. 
Author's Recipe. 

Yolks of 5 eggs. 

1^ cups of sugar. 

•| cup of butter. 

■^ cup of sour milk. 

1 pint of flour. 

1 teaspoon of soda. Nutmeg. 



186 MRS. OWBNS' COOK BOOK 

ALMOND CAKE. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 

1 cup of sweet milk. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

1 teaspoon of soda. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 

1 pound of almonds. Instead of almonds, you can 
use a cup and a half of hickory-nut meats. 

WHITE CITRON CAKE. 

Mrs. M. A. 8, 

1 pound sifted loaf sugar. 

1 pound of flour. 

1 pound of butter. 

■| pound of almonds. 

■| pound of candied lemon. 

^ pound of citron. 

8 eggs. 

After the butter is beaten to a cream, add the 
beaten eggs, and then the flour. Beat it for an 
hour, then add the other ingredients. 

CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

Mrs. S. L. C. 
1 cup of sugar. 

■J cup of butter. 



AITD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 187 

■| cup of sweet milk. 

2 cups of flour. 

■^ teaspoon of soda. 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

GKAHAM CAKE. 

Mrs. J. B. Bryan, in Tribune Home. 

If any reader of the Home 

Should like a Graham cake, 
I give you here a recipe 

Which I quite often make. 

First take one cup of sugar white. 

And butter one-half cup, 
Together mix, then add an egg. 

And lightly beat it up. 

Then take one cup of pure sweet milk, 

And well dissolve therein 
A teaspoon full of soda so 

Its trace cannot be seen. 

Then scatter in a little salt, 

And iBavor it with spice, 
A little nutmeg, if you please. 

Or lemon-peel is nice. 

And then of flour you may put in 

Three even teacups full, 
And when you've stirred it well around, 

Then quickly pour the whole 

Into your buttered pan, my dear. 

Which ready stands the while. 
Then, if you give it a good bake, 

'Twill be so nice you'll smile. 



188 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

GEAHAM COMPOSITION CAKE. 

1 cup of butter. 

1 cup of molasses. 

1 cup of liglit brown sugar. 

1 cup of sour milk. 

1 cup of chopped raisins. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoon of soda. 

1 teaspoon of lemon. Grabam flour sufficient to 
make like ginger bread. Bake one hour. 



LAYER CAKE. 

ALMOND NAGOUT. 

Mrs. M. L. Currey, Detroit. 

^ cup butter. i cup milk. 

I^ cups sugar. 2 cups flour. 

2 eggs. I teaspoon soda. 

2 teaspoons cream tartar. 

I teaspoon lemon extract. 

Bake in four layers. For the jelly, take 

I lb. sweet almonds (blanch and chop them.) 

I cup sour cream. I cup sugar. 

I teaspoon vanilla. 

Beat all together and put between the layers. 
Frost all over with the whites of 2 eggs and | cup 
pulverized sugar. Flavor with lemon. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 1 89 

DOLLY VARDEN CAKE. 

DARK PART. LIGHT PART. 

I cup sugar. Whites 3 eggs. 

^ cup syrup. I cup milk. 

^ cup butter. I5 cups sugar. 

1 cup milk. ^ cup butter. 

2 cups flour. 2 cups flour. 

Yolks 4 eggs. 2 teaspoons bak'g powder. 

2 teaspoons bak'g powder. 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

I cup raisins, chopped. 

h cup currants. 

I teaspoon each cloves 

and cinnamon. 
^ nutmeg. 

Bake in square tins and put together in alternate 

layers with jelly between. Make a frosting of the 

remaining white of an egg, and 1 cup of pulverized 

sugar for the top. 

PINE-APPLE CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 
3| cups flour. 
^ cup milk. 

5 eggs. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 

Bake in jelly tins; grate a pine-apple and half a 
cocoanut and put between the layers. 



190 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

WHITE LINCOLN JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. M. A. 8. 

1-^ cups of sugar. 

■| cup of butter. 

2^ cups of flour. 

^ cup of sweet milk 

Whites of 4 eggs. 

■| teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

^ teaspoon of soda. 

Use -^ cup of corn starch and 2 cups of flour if 
desired. Instead of jelly between the layers, use 
lemon butter as given elsewhere. 

COCOANUT CKEAM CAKE. 

Mrs. M. A. Woodworth. 

1 cup of sugar. 
•| cup of butter. 

2 eggs. 

■| cup of sweet milk. 

2 cups of flour. 

1^ teaspoons of baking powder. Bake in layers. 

Cream for the above— 

1 cup of sweet milk. 

1 teaspoon of butter. 

1 dessert spoon of com starch. Sugar to taste. 
Put on warm and sprinkle with cocoanut. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. I9I 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. J. A. Reichelt, Chicago. 

^ cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 

I cup sweet milk. 3 cups flour. 

Whites 6 eggs. 2 teaspoons bak'g powder. 

Bake in 3 layers in deep jelly tins. Make a 
thin icing of whites of 3 eggs and 2 cups sugar. Ice 
both sides of each cake. For the fruit, take 
I fresh cocoanut. 6 large figs. 

I cup stoned raisins. ^ lb. almonds. 

^ lb. citron. i lb. dates. 

^ cup currants. 

Blanch the almonds. Grate the cocoanut. Take 
about ^ of the almonds and chop fine with all of the 
fruit. Mix with a small part of the cocoanut and 
spread the mixture on each layer of cake and sprinkle 
On the top layer spread fruit, and use the whole 
almonds for decoration, sprinkling plentifully with 
cocoanut. Desiccated cocoanut will not answer 
very well for this beautiful cake. It is not so fluffy. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Layers from recipe on p. 184; frosting, p. 162. 

STRAWBERRY CAKE. 

Layers like the above. Let a quart of the berries 
stand a few hours in sugar; drain off the juice and 
spread the berries on the cake layers. For frosting, 
take 5 tablespoons sugar, and boil in the strawberry 
juice; stir in the beaten white of l egg and a tea- 
spoon of corn starch dissolved; use more corn starch 
if it is not thick enough. 

FIG CAKE. 

Mrs. L. A. Clinton. 

I cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 



192 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

3 cups sifted flour. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

1 cup milk. 

3 heaping teaspoons baking powder. 

Vanilla flavoring. 

Take half the batter, pour it into 3 or 4 jelly tins. 
On each put a layer of split figs, seeds up; bake. 

To the rest add 2 tablespoons molasses, 1 cup seed- 
less raisins, h, cup currants, teaspoon of cinnamon and 
cloves, a little more flour; bake in 2 or 3 jelly tins. 

Put the layers together with frosting, having a fig 
cake on top. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

A corn-starch cake, with icing between the layers. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN" JELLY CAKE. 
Mrs. A. C. Hastings, Middletown. Vt 

^ cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 

1 cup of milk. 

2 eggs. 

2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 

1 teaspoon of soda. 

Stir together without separating the eggs. Put 
soda in milk; cream of tartar in flour. Bake in 
layers, with frosting put between, as for jelly cake. 



AXD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 193 

CAEAMEL CAKE. 

3 cups of sugar. 
1-| cups of butter. 
1 cup of milk. 
4r| cups of flour. 
5 eggs. 

1 small teaspoon of soda. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 
Caramel for filling — 

1-| cups of brown sugar. 
"I cup. of milk. 
1 cup of molasses. 
1 teaspoon of butter. 

1 tablespoon of flour. 

2 tablespoons of cold water. 

Boil five minutes; add half a cake of chocolate 
(grated), boil until like custard. Add a pinch of 
soda, stir well, and remove from fire. When cold, 
flavor with vanilla, and spread between the layers of 
cake. Cover the top with the same, and set in sunny- 
window to dry. The above will make two large cakes. 

KIBBON CAKE. 

Mrs. Rice, Sioux Palls, Dak. 

2 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of butter. 
1 cup of milk. 
13 



194: MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

4 cups of flour. 

4 eggs. 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

■| teaspoon of soda. 

Have two tins alike, ready; put one-third of the 
mixture in each, and bake. To the other third add 
3 teaspoons of molasses; 1 cup of currants, and 
citron and spices to suit the taste, and bake in a 
tin same size as the others. When done, put a 
layer of the light cake, then spread with jelly, then 
the dark cake, jelly, and the light cake on top. Lay 
a paper on, turn over on a plate or tia, and press with 
two flat irons till cold. 

CONFECTIONER'S CAKE. 

Mary Van B. Owens, Oak Park, 111. 
One large cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 3 eggs, 
■| cup of milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder. Take out half of the batter and add to it 
i cup of stoned raisins, cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. 
Bake on jelly tins, and place in alternate layers, light 
and dark, with frosting between. 

GILT EDGE CAKE. 
I cup sugar; 2 cups flour; | cup milk or water; 
I tablespoon butter; i teaspoon soda; 2 cream tar- 
tar; yolks 2 eggs. Bake in 3 layers. For filling, take 
I cup sugar in enough water to melt; let boil up; add 
whites 2 eggs beaten stiff; mix; add | teaspoon 
each vanilla and lemon; put between and on top. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 195 

VARIETY CAKE. 

I cup butter and 

1 cup sugar worked to a cream; add 

^ cup milk, 

5 yolks of eggs well beaten, and 

1 teaspoon baking powder in 

2 cups flour. 

Divide, and flavor one-half with orange water and 
the other with vanilla and enough grated chocolate 
to color brown. Bake in two jelly tins. 

Prepare another cake batter as follows: 

^ cup butter. 

1^ cups sugar. 

^ cup sweet milk. 

Whites 5 eggs. 

1 teaspoon baking powder in 

2 full cups flour. 

Divide, and flavor one-half with rose water and 
the other with lemon and color with pulverized 
cochineal a bright red. Bake in two jelly tins. 
When done, place the brown cake first, then white, 
red, and last yellow, with jelly between, and frost 
the top with boiled icing. When cold and hard, 
ornament the top with a funnel of the frosting. 

LEMON CAKE. 
^ cup butter. 3 eggs. For the jelly — 

2 cups sugar. i cup sugar. i egg. 

1 cup milk. I tablespoon butter. 

3 cups flour. Grated rind and juice I 

2 teaspoons bak'g powd'r. lemon. 

Bake in jelly tins. Boil till thick. 



196 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. L. A. Brodie, Chicago. 

2 coffee cups sugar. 2 coffee cups flour. 

h cup cold water. Whites 4 eggs. Yolks 5 eggs. 
2 teaspoons baking powder. Beat yolks and sugar 
together; add flour and baking powder and water, 
and lastly the beaten whites. Then take the juice 
(except one tablespoon) and grated rind of one 
large orange and stir in the batter. Bake in layers. 
Make frosting of whites 2 eggs, tablespoon orange 
juice and 6 tablespoons sugar. Sj^read on the layers. 

BELYIDEEE CEEAM CAKE. 

Lilla E. Miller. 
^ cnp of butter. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 eggs. 

-| cup of sweet milk. 

"I teaspoon of soda. 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. 

1£ cups of flour. 

Cream for the above layers — 

^ pint of milk, 

1 egg. 

^ cup of flour, or large tablespoon of com starch. 

^ cup of sugar. Pinch of salt. 

Mix egg, flour and sugar with part of the milk. 
Stir into the remainder of the milk when scalding 
hot. Flavor after it is cooked. 



AJID TJ8BFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 197 



COOKIES. 

CHKISTMAS COOKIES. 

Mrs. F. W. Van B., Oak Park, HI. 

4 eggs and 1 pound of sugar stirred together for one 
hour. Add ^ teaspoon pulverized hartshorn; then 
enough flour to make a stiff dough. Roll out and 
cut. Keep in a warm room all night. Then bake in 
a slow oven. Sprinkle the pans with annis seed be- 
fore putting cookies in. Make as stiff as you can 
roll out. (Splendid.) 

[As " Christmas comes but once a year," we may 
afford the time taken for these delightful cookies. 
Ed.] 

GEPwMAN COOKIES. 

Mrs. J. Engel. 

1 pound of flour, with 2 teaspoons of baking pow- 
der, 3 eggs, "I pound of sugar, ^ pound of butter, 
lemon and mace. Stir butter to a cream, put in 
sugar and yolks of eggs, then the beaten whites, and 
flour. Roll, spread on with a brush a beaten egg and 
sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar. Bake qliickly. 



198 MES. 0WE^'S' COOK BOOK 



GARFIELD COOKIES. 

12 cups of flour, 3 cups of butter, 5 cups of 
sugar, 1 teaspoon of soda, 1 tablespoon of caraway 
seed. Large coffee cup of water. Rub the butter 
and sugar into the flour, 

ARTHUR COOKIES. 

1 cup of butter, 1 cup of sour cream, 3^ cups of 
sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of soda, nutmeg, ilour to 
roll out soft and thin. 

BLAINE COOKIES. 

3 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 table- 
spoon of sweet cream, 1 teasuoon of soda, same of 
cream of tartar. 

WINDOM COOKIES. 

1 cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, | cup of water, 
2 eggs, 3 teaspoons of baking powder, nutmeg. Soft 
and thin. 

LINCOLN COOKIES. 

1 cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, ^ cup of butter- 
milk, 1 teaspoon of soda, nutmeg. Roll soft and thin. 



Airo USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 199 

HUNT COOKIES. 

3 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of 
milk or water, ^ teaspoon of soda. Eub butter and 
sugar to a cream. Beat eggs to a froth; add them 
and stir; tben add a pint of flour, then the soda dis- 
solved in the milk, then the rest of the flour. Mix 
soft and roll thin. 

MACYEAGH COOKIES. 

1 cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, ^ cup of sour 
milk, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon of soda, 1 nutmeg or cinna- 
mon. Roll soft and thin. 

KIRKWOOD COOKIES. 

Mrs. M. A. 8. 

1 cup of sour cream, 1 cup of sugar, 1 egg, -J cup 
of butter, teaspoon of soda, nutmeg. Elour to roll 
thin. 

JAMES COOKIES. 

Mrs. L. 8. H. 

1 coffee cup ot sugar, § cup of butter, 2 eggs, 
■| teaspoon of soda dissolved in two tablespoons of 
milk. Roll soft and thin. 



200 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

SEA FOAM. 

"Whites of 10 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one and 
a half cups of sifted sugar, one cup of sifted flour, 
one teaspoon of cream of tartar. Put into rings and 
bake quick. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 cup of butter, 2 cups of molasses, 1 teaspoon of 
cloves, 1 tablespoon of ginger. Flour to make a stiff 
batter. Mould with the hand into small cakes, and 
bake in a steady rather than quick oven, as they are 
apt to burn. (Good.) 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Mrs. F. W. Van B. 

1 pint of molasses, 1 coffee cup of butter and lard. 
Put on stove and boil two minutes. When nearly 
cold, add 3 tablespoons of boiling water, and 1 table- 
spoon of soda. Stir until it foams. Put in plenty 
of salt, and 1 tablespoon of ginger. Flour to roll. 
(Splendid.) 

GINGEE COOKIES. 

Kittle Bradford, Sidney Plains, N. Y, 
1 cup of butter, (or half drippings will answer,) 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 201 

1 Clip of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 1 egg, 1 table- 
spoon of soda, 1 tablespoon of ginger. Mix not ver j 
stiff. Sprinkle with sugar before baking. These 
cookies took the premium at a State Fair. 

GINGEE COOKIES. 

Mrs. Julia B. De Lon. 

1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of butter, 
1 cup of boiling water, tablesj)oon of ginger, same of 
soda. Mix not very stiff. 

GINGER COOKIE& 
Mrs. A. C. H. 

2 cups of molasses, ^ cup of sugar, 1 cup of butter 
or lard, 1 cup of hot water, 2 teaspoons of alum, 
4 teaspoons of soda; the alum and soda in the hot 
water. Heaping tablespoon of ginger. Flour to roll. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Mrs. William Morrison, Spencer, Iowa. 

1 cup of shortening, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of 
sugar, 3 teaspoons of soda, 3 teaspoons of ginger. 
Sour milk to dissolve soda in. Flour to roll. 



202 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Mrs. E. J. Wilber. 

2^ cups of molasses, 1 cup of shortening, 2 table- 
spoons of soda dissolved in 1 cup of liot water, 
1 tablespoon of ginger. Flour to roll out. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. H., Niles, Mich. 

1 cup of New Orleans molasses, 1 cup of brown 
sugar, 1 cup of butter or lard. Boil 20 minutes; 
tben add 1 teaspoon of soda, one well beaten egg, and 
flour to make it very stiff. After it is well kneaded, 
cut off a small piece to roll out, and put the balance 
where it will keep warm until needed. It should be 
so stiff that it will be necessary to keep it quite warm 
in order to roll out smoothly. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

1 cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 1^ cups of mo- 
lasses, "I cup of water, 1 teaspoon of soda, 1 table- 
spoon of ginger. Flour to stiffen. Put the sugar 
into the flour, then add the butter and rub it in. 

GINGER JUMBLES. 

Mrs. M. A. S. 
1 cup of butter, 1 cup of brown sugar, 2 cups of 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. • 203 

molasses, 4^ cups of flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of soda. 
Drop on buttered tins. 



DOUGHNUTS 

EAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Set sponge for tliem the middle of tlie afternoon. 
Fry tlie next forenoon. 1 quart of water, 1 cake of 
yeast. Let rise till very light (about 5 hours). Add 
1 coffee cup of lard, 2 cups of white sugar, 8 large 
mashed potatoes, or 2 eggs (the potataos are nicer) 
and a small nutmeg. Let rise again, until very light. 
Either roll it and cut, or break off bits for frying. 
Lay enough for one frying on a floured plate and set 
in the oven to warm. "When they are put in to fry, 
set some more in the oven. This improves fried- 
cakes very much. It takes longer to cook raised 
doughnuts, than those made with baking powder. 

DOUGHNUTS 
Mrs. E. B. B. 

I cup of sugar, 1 cup of cream, 1 cup of sour milk, 
1 egg, 1 teaspoon of soda, nutmeg. Flour to roll. 



204: MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. Dr. B. M. Baker. 

A cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of milk, 
3 eggs, pincli of salt, nutmeg, 1 heaping teaspoon of 
baking powder to every pint of flour used to make 
them stiff enough to roll out. This will make 100 
cakes. 

LAZY DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. Nellie Roe. 

^ cup of sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup of sour milk, 2 table- 
spoons of melted lard, -^ teaspoon of soda. Stir as 
stiff as possible, with j&our. Drop from a teaspoon 
in hot lard and fry bro^vn. Dip spoon in lard after 
each time, and thej will not stick to the spoon. 

FKIED CAKES. 
Mrs. M. A. S. 

1 teacup of sugar, 1 teacup of buttermilk, 1 egg. 
2 tablespoons of melted lard, 1 teaspoon of soda. 
Cut in any shape desired, and fry in boiling lard. 

AMALGAMATION DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup of yellow corn-meal, 2 cups of flour, 3 tea- 
spoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon of salt and 1 of 
nutmeg, 1 cup of sugar, and enough milk to roll well. 
Then fry in hot lard. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 205 

ANDOYER WONDERS. 
M. S. M. 
3 eggs, 1-| cups of sugar, 1-| cups of milk, 1 table- 
spoon of lard or butter, 1 teaspoon of soda, two tea- 
spoons of cream of tartar, spice to taste, cut in rounds, 
boil in bot lard, like dougbnuts. 

SPANISH RUFFS. 

Put into a saucepan a teacup of water, a tablespoon 
of powdered sugar, -| a teaspoon of salt, and 2 ounces 
of butter. Wbile boiling, add sufficient flour for it 
to leave tbe saucepan; stir in, one by one, tbe jolks 
of 4 eggs. Drop a teaspoon at a time into boiling 
lard, and fry a ligbt brown. 

RISSOLES. 

Roll out nice pie paste, and put bits of jelly or 
preserves in a row along tbe edge, about two incbes 
apart. Tben turn tbe wbole row over on to the layer 
of paste and cut down through the two layers with a 
cake or biscuit cutter, enclosing the bit of preserves 
in the cutting. Either fry in hot fat or bake in the 
oven. Stick the edges together with a little water. 

FRIED CAKES WITHOUT SHORTENING. 

Mrs. O. Blackman, Chicago. 

2 eggs, I cup sugar, beaten thoroughly together; 
add I cup sweet milk and a little more than i quart 
flour; 3 teaspoons baking powder. Mix as soft as 
can be rolled. 



206 



MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 



GINGER CAKES. 

Note. — Water may be substituted for milk in 
any of the following recipes. 

OLD-FASHIONED GINGEE BREAD. 

1 pint of molasses, 6 tablespoons of butter, 2 table- 
spoons of ginger, 2 teaspoons of saleratus, 1 teaspoon 
of alum. Dissolve the alum and saleratus separately 
in plenty of water, making in all one cup full; mix 
as soft as can be rolled; bake ten or fifteen minutes 
in a quick oven. 

GINGEE BEEAD. 

1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sour milk, 2 eggs, 
4 teaspoons of soda, 2 teaspoons of cream of tartar, 
1 cup of brown sugar, ^ cup of butter, 1 tablespoon 
of ginger. Mix stiff enough to roll out. Bake in a 
large dripping-pan and mark off. 

GINGEE BEEAD. 

Anna P. 
1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of New Orleans molasses, 
1 cup of sour milk, 1 cup of butter, 4 cups of flour, 
1 teaspoon each of saleratus and cinnamon, and 2 of 
ginger. Bake in a steady oven. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 207 

GINGEE BEEAD. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

2 or 3 eggs, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sugar, 
1 cup of butter, 3 cups of flour, 1 cup of milk, sour 
or sweet; and of soda, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, nut- 
meg and allspice, about a teaspoon each. Stir hard, 
and bake slowly. 

TEAINING-PAY GINGEE BEEAD. 



4 quarts of sifted flour, 1 quart of molasses, 1 scant 
tablespoon of soda dissolved in a little water, 1 table- 
spoon of good ginger, 1 pound of butter, 1 tablespoon 
of alum dissolved in -J teacup of boiling water. Make 
as soft as you can roll out; cut in cards, and bake in 
a rather quick oven. 

SOFT GIISTGEE BEEAD. 

1 cup of New Orleans molasses, 1 cup of sugar, 
3 cups of flour, 1 cup of sweet milk, , -^ cup of butter, 
1 teaspoon of soda, 2 teaspoons of ginger. 

SOFT GINGEE BEEAD. 

Mrs. M. A. W. 
1 cup of molasses. Stir just as much flour in it 



208 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

as it will take. 1 cup of boiling water, with a tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in. 1 tablespoon of lard, 
pinch of salt, 2 teaspoons of ginger. Pour into a 
square cake pan and bake in a moderate oven. 

GINGER DROPS. 

Mrs. Fidelia Evett, Chicago. 

I cup sugar, i cup molasses. ^ tablespoon ginger. 

5 tablespoons melted butter. 
I teaspoon soda in ^ cup boiling water. Stir rather 
thick; bake in a drippingpan and eat warm. 

SOFT MOLASSES CAKE, 
I tablespoon butter. 
I cup molasses. 
^ cup warm water. 
2^ cups sifted flour. 

^ teaspoon soda. 

I teaspoon ginger. Pinch of salt. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. O. Blackmau, Claica^o. 

I cup sugar. i cup sour milk. 

I cup molasses. I teaspoon nutmeg. 

I small teaspoon soda. § cup butter. 
3 cups flour. p teaspoon cinnamon. 

3 eggs. Pinch of salt. I teaspoon cloves. 
Bake in patty pans or muffin rings. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 209 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

DEOP SPONGE CAKE. 
Mr8. E. B. B. 

■| pound of pulverized sugar, ^ pound of flour, 4 
eggs beaten separately, whites and yolks, 1 lemon, 
all of the juice, and half the peel. Drop on but- 
tered paper, not too near together. Try one, and if 
it runs, beat in a trifle more flour, beating hard. 
Bake in a quick oven a delicate brown. 

WARM TEA CAKES. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

■| cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, -^ cup of sweet 
milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 eggs, nutmeg, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon of baking powder. Stir quickly and bake im- 
mediately. 

TEA CAKES. 

Mrs. J. B. De Lon. 

2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of sour 
milk, 2 eggs, 5 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of saleratus. 
14 



210 



MRS. OWENS COOK BOOK 



MOLASSES TEA CAKES. 

Mrs. J. B. De Lon. 

2 cups of sugar, 1-| cups of molasses, 1 any of 
boiling water, heaping cup of shortening, heaping 
teaspoon of salei-atus. 

WIDOW'S CAKE. 

2 cups of Indian meal, 3 cups of wheat flour, 1 
pint of buttermilk, 4 tablespoons of molasses, 2 tea- 
spoons of saleratus. To be eaten hot, with butter, 
for tea or breakfast, 

GEKMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. Engel. 

Take ^ cake of compressed yeast, (or teacup of 
home-made,) put it in a pint of warm milk. Stir 
tliis in the middle of a pan of flour. When light, 
add ^ pound of butter, ^ pound of sugar, some rais- 
ins, lemon, nutmeg, cinnamon and flour. Put in 
drijjping-pans like ginger bread, or a shortcake. Let 
it rise, for baking. Then, with a cake-brush, rub 
over the top a beaten egg, and sprinkle on some sugar 
and cinnamon. Bake. 

CEEAM CAKE. 

TO BE EATEN HOT WITH BUTTEE. 
Mrs. Dr. C. H. Evans. 

1 cup of sour cream, 1 small cup of butter, 2 eggs, 



.» 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 211 

Bmall spoon of soda, very little ginger. Flour like 
ordinary cake. 

KNICKEKBOCKER CRULLERS. 

■| cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 4 eggs, ^ teaspoon 
of soda, little salt and nutmeg, small cup of milk. 
Flour to make stiff. Roll very th.in. Cut in cakes 
three inclies square, and then make slits in each cake 
nearly the whole width, like a comb with the teeth 
half an inch wide. Fry in hot lard. The success in 
these lies very greatly in the cutting out. 

YANITIES. 

Beat 2 eggs very light, add teaspoon of salt and 
flour to roll. Take a piece of dough as large as a 
hickory-nut, roll as thin as paper and fry in hot lard. 
They will be done in a few seconds. 

RAGAMUFFINS. 

Take biscuit-dough, roll out, spread with butter, 
sugar and cinnamon; roll up like a jelly roll, cut from 
the end, and bake quickly. (Very nice.) 

CHOCOLATE COMFITS. 

"Whites of 6 eggs, ^ pound of grated chocolate, 
■| pound of sugar, (1-| cups,) 5 ounces of flour (1 cup 
fall and one lacking half an inch of being full, after 



212 MBS. OWENS' CX)OK BOOK 

sifting). Beat tlie whites stiff. Stir in the sugar, 
chocolate, and lastly, the flour lightly. Drop from a 
spoon on a buttered dripping-pan, and bake in a 
moderate oven. This quantity of chocolate makes it 
very strongly flavored. 

COCOAKUT COMFITS. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

Whites of 6 eggs, -^ pound of grated cocoanut, 
■^ pound of sugar. Drop the size of hickory-nuts, 
separately, on buttered paper laid on tins, and bake 
in a moderately hot oven. 

SEED cae:es. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, ^ cup of sourish 
cream, 2 whites of eggs, ^ teaspoon of soda. Stir 
like cake, then mix stiff with flour and roll thin as 
pie-crust, with caraway seeds sprinkled in. Then roll 
with fluted roller, and cut in square cakes. (Excel- 
lent.) 

HEEMIT CAKES. 

Mrs. Nellie Roe. 
1-| cups of brown sugar, 1 cup of currants, -^ tea- 
spoon of salt, ^ cup of butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of 
soda in 2 tablespoons of milk, 1 teaspoon each of all 
kinds of spices; mix stiff with flour. Roll thin; cut 
in squares, like soda crackers. 



AlTD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 213 

CKEAM PUFFS. 

Melt "I cup of butter in 1 cup of hot water, and 
while boiling, beat in 1 cup of flour. Then remove 
from stove, and when cool, stir in 3 eggs, one at a 
time, without beating. Drop on tins quickly, and 
bake about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 
For the cream, ^ pint of milk, 1 egg, 3 tablespoons 
of sugar, 2 large tablespoons of flour. Boil and 
flavor with lemon. When puffs are done, open the 
side with a sharp knife and fill with the cream. 

YARIETIES. 
Mrs. K B. B, 

2 eggs beaten separately, 1 teaspoon of salt. Flonr 
to roll thin as a wafer. Cut in strips an inch wide 
and four long, and wind around the finger; slip off 
and fry in hot lard. 

FLOEENTINES. 

RoU puff paste to the thickness of the eighth of an 
inch, and lay it on a thin baking-tin. Spread over it 
a layer of green gage or any other preserve or jam, 
and bake it in a moderate oven. Take it out, and 
when partially cool, having whipped some whites of 
eggs with sugar, put the whip over the preserve, and 
strew some minced almonds all over the surface, 



214 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

finishing witli sifted sugar. Put it once more into 
the oven until the whip is quite stiff. The florentines 
should be of a pale color, and a few minutes after the 
paste is finally removed from the oven, it should be 
cut into diamonds and served up. 

MACCAKOONS. 

1 cup of hickory-nut meats, pounded in a mortar; 
1 cup of sugar, 1-| eggs, 2 tablespoons of flour. Bake 
on a greased paper; put very little in a place. 

LEMON MACCAROONS. 

1 pound of powdered sugar, 4 eggs, whipped very 
light and long; juice of 3 lemons and peel of 1; 
1 heaping cup of prepared flour, -^ teaspoon of nut- 
meg. Butter your hands lightly; take up small 
lumps of the mixture ; make into balls about as large 
as a walnut, and lay them upon a sheet of buttered 
paper, more than two inches apart. Bake in a brisk 
oven. 

EDINBORO' CHEESE. 

Take 2 tablespoons of raspberry jelly, 2 tablespoons 
of pounded loaf sugar and the whites of two eggs; 
beat well together till it is perfectly mixed and forms 
a stiff paste; then turn it into a dish, and it is ready 
for use. This is most delicious, and is still further 



AND USEFUL IIOUSEIIOLU HINTS. 215 

improved by mixing currant jelly with the raspberry. 
It can also be made with any kind of jelly. Care 
should be taken to beat it well. 

SUGAK KISSES. 

Whites of 5 eggs beaten to a stiff froth; add 1 
pound of pulverized sugar, and 1 teaspoon of lemon 
extract. Drop on white paper and bake about twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

WELSH KAKEBIT, 

OK BABBIT AS IT IS FAMILIARLY CALLED. 

Cut a piece of bread ^ of an inch thick. Remove 
the crust. Toast nicely on each side. Lay cheese 
over the toast and set in the oven. When the cheese 
is sufficiently melted to penetrate the toasted bread, 
serve immediately. 

FONDU. 

A FAMOUS CANADA RELISH. 
Scribner's Monthly. 

2 ounces of butter, 4 ounces of bread crumbs, 8 
ounces of cheese, 1 cup of sweet milk, 3 eggs. Cut 
the butter and cheese into small jDieces and place them 
in a large bowl with the bread; on this, pour scald- 
ing milk, after which add the yolks well beaten, and 



216 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

also a little salt; mix well together, cover, and place 
on the back of the range, stirring occasionally nntil 
all is dissolved, when add the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth; place in a buttered pie plate, and bake in a 
quick oven for about twenty minutes; serve the 
moment it is taken from the oven. Many eat mus- 
tard on this. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE. 

Soak one cup of dry crumbs of bread in new or 
fresh milk. Beat into this 3 well beaten eggs. Add 
a tablespoon of melted butter and ^ a pound of grated 
cheese. Sprinkle the top with sifted bread crumbs 
and bake in the oven a delicate brown. A delicious 
relish to eat with thin bread and butter. 

THIN BEEAD AND BUTTEE. 

Cut off the end crust from a loaf of bread. But- 
ter the bread on the loaf, and cut off the slice very 
thin with a sharp knife. Butter the next slice on the 
loaf and cut it off thin as before, until the plate is 
full, one upon another evenly. Then cut down 
through the middle of the slices, serving each one 
with a half slice. Thin bread and butter is nice for 
an impromptu lunch, or a Sunday tea. It is an old 
English dish. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 217 

GKAPE FEITTERS. 

Juliet Corson. 

1 cup of flour, yolks of two eggs, 2 tablespoons of 
salad oil, pinch of spice, salt also, enough cold water 
to make a batter about like sponge cake. When 
mixed smoothly, add the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth. Dip little clusters of grapes in the 
batter and fry in smoking hot fat. Take up and lay 
on brown paper for a minute, to free them from fat. 
Dust with powdered sugar, and serve either hot or 
cold, as a dessert. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

1 cnp of flour, yolks of 2 eggs, pinch of salt, 2 
tablespoons of melted lard or butter, water to make 
a batter like griddle cakes. Add the whites beaten 
to a stiff froth, and stir in lightly 2 or 3 bananas 
cut in thin strips. Dip with a spoon into smoking 
hot fat and fry like doughnuts. Dust with powdered 
sugar. The above will make a dessert for a family 
of eight persons. 

PLAIN FRITTERS. 
Make a batter like the above. Fry and eat with 
a Sfiuce; or stir in chopped apple or any fruit de- 
sired. 



218 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

CUSTARDS, ICES, ^ 
CREAMS. 

When floating island or ice cream through neg- 
lect or by accident has been cooked too long and 
curdles, take a bowl full at a time and beat with a 
patent egg-beater, and you will never know it had 

been curdled. 

ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. P. 

1 quart of milk, 2 eggs, heaping tablespoon of 
corn-starclj. Sweeten to taste; also, flavor. "We 
prefer flour to corn-starcli. Put milk in a Farina 
kettle; or, in lieu of that, put it in a tin pail, and 
set pail in boiling water. Put in flour or starch 
mixed in cold milk, and cook thoroughly, having 
sweetened before. Then lift out of the boiling water, 
and put in the well beaten eggs. Cool, and flavor 
just before freezing. 

ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 quart of cream, 1 pint of milk, 2 cups of sugar, 
1 Qgg, well beaten, 1 dessert spoon of vanilla, 1 des- 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 219 

sert spoon of corn-starch. Heat sugar, milk, corn- 
starcli and egg, as for custard. When cool, beat in 
the cream, and freeze. (Excellent.) 

CHOCOLATE ICE OEEAM. 

Allow 1 tablespoon of grated chocolate dissolved 
in warm milk to every quart of cream. Put in when 
partly frozen. 

COFFEE CKEAM. 

6 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 1 coffee cup of strong 
coffee. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar 
together; add a little cold milk. Then add one quart 
of boiling milk and the coffee, stirring the same way 
till it begins to thicken, but don't let it boil. Pour 
into a large glass dish and add the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff, for a frosting, 

YANILLA CKEAM. 

"I box of gelatine soaked in 1 quart of milk one 
hour. Set on the fire, add the yolks of 3 eggs, beaten 
with 1 cup of sugar. Heat to boiling, flavor with 
vanilla and turn into a mould. 

OEANGE CKEAM. 

Take -^ a dozen oranges, grate the peel into a pint 
and a half of hot water, and beat up with it four 



220 MRS. owenh' cook book 

eggs; sweeten the liquid, pass it througli a strainer, 
then simmer it until it becomes of the consistence of 
cream, and pour it into glasses. 

STEAWBEREY CEEAM. 

Mash the fruit gently; drain it on a sieve; when 
well drained (without being pressed), add sugar and 
cream to the juice, and if too thick, a little milk; 
whisk it in a bowl, and as the froth rises lay it on a 
sieve: when no more will rise, put the cream in a 
dish and lay the froth upon it. 

OEIENTAL CEEAM. 
Mrs. E. J. "W. 

Half a box of gelatine, dissolved in a pint of water. 
Add the juice of one lemon and a cup of sugar. 
When boiled thoroughly, pour into a mould or large 
glass dish. Make a boiled custard of one quart of 
milk, yolks of four eggs, and flavor with lemon. 
Pour over the jelly. Beat the whites to a stiff froth; 
spread over all. Heat a shovel and hold over to 
brown slightly. To be eaten cold, 

BAYAEIAN CEEAM. 

1 quart of milk or cream, 6 eggs, -J box of gela- 
tine, 1 coffee cup of sugar, 3 teaspoons of vanilla. 



AKB tJSEFtlL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 221 

Make syrup of the sugar bj boiling it in water 
enough to dissolve it. Dissolve the gelatine in water 
that will cover it. Boil the milk. Stir in the gela- 
tine while on the stove. Take it oif. Stir in the 
beaten yolks of eggs, the syrup, flavoring, and the 
whites beaten to a froth. Turn into a mould. Eat 
cold. 

KOYAL FKENCH CEEAM. 

•| pound of sweet almonds, 2 ounces of bitter 
almonds, f of a pound of sugar, eight eggs, 1^ pints 
of milk. Blanch and dry the almonds thoroughly in 
a cloth, then pound them in a mortar until a smooth 
paste. Add the well beaten eggs, sugar and milk. 
Stir them all over the fire until they thicken, but do 
not boil. Then strain, and put the mixture in a 
freezer or tin pail. Surround with ice and freeze it. 
When quite frozen, fill a mould, place the lid on, and 
keep the pudding in ice until wanted for the table. 
Then turn it out on the dish, and garnish with any 
fruit prepared in fine syrup, pouring a little over the 
top of the pudding. Yanilla flavoring is liked by 
some. 

FKUIT CEEAMS. 

Take -^ an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a little 
water, then put 1 pint of good cream, sweetened to 
the taste; boil it; when nearly cold, lay some apricot 



222 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

or raspberry jam on the bottom of a glass dish, and 
pour it over. (This is most excellent.) 

ANGEL CEEAM. 

Mrs. L. C. 
1 pint of milk, -^ cup of sugar, little salt, 3 even 
tablespoons of corn-starch. Cook the above over hot 
water, and at the last, stir in the beaten whites of 2 
eo-o-s. Take the yolks and make a boiled custard 
with not quite a pint of milk. Flavor. Set on ice. 

OAK PARK CREAM. 

Mrs. F. W. Van B. 
Make a jelly of gelatine, putting 1 pint of water 
on -J- box of gelatine. Add juice of 2 small lemons 
and 1 cup of sugar. Strain when cool. Then slice 
six oranges thin, removing the seeds, and place on 
jelly, putting sugar over them as you slice them. 
Then whip ^ pint of cream, sweeten a little and 
flavor. Pour it on top when cold. 

VELVET CREAM. 

1 pint of sweet cream, 1 ounce of gelatine, 3 table- 
spoons of sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in warm 
water. Whip the cream to a stiff froth. Pour the 
gelatine in, while whipping. Sugar and flavoring, 
should be with the cream. Pour into a mould. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 223 

WHIPPED CKEAM. 

Take a pint of cream, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 
flavor with ^ teaspoon of lemon extract, and whip 
with an egg-whip. Stop for a minute, and remove 
the froth with a spoon to a sieve. Repeat, and stop 
again, to remove the froth, until all has set that can 
be raised. Set the sieve in a cool place until the 
whipped cream is wanted. Use it for Charlotte Russe, 
or Vienna coffee. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Mrs. A-. S. J. 
Swell one small teacup of tapioca in a little milk 
over night. Add beaten jolks of 3 eggs and boil in 
1 quart of milk; add a little salt. When at boiling 
heat, sweeten and flavor. Then stir in the beaten 
whites of the eggs lightly. To be eaten cold. 

APPLE CREAM. 

Stew apples, leaving quarters whole. Skim them 

into a glass dish and whip with egg-beater, 1 cup of 

cream and 1 cup of sugar; pour over the apples. 

When cold, it makes a delicious dessert in warm 

weather. 

CREAM CHARLOTTE. 

Make a sponge cake in 3 layers from any plain 
recipe. Pour over it a boiled custard made of one 



224 



MRS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 



quart of milk, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons of sugar. Take 
•| pint of good cream, whip to a froth, sweeten and 
flavor and spread smoothly over the whole. Set on 
ice. 

A CHAKTEEUSE OF ORANGES. 

Mrs. C. S. Jones. 
Take two moulds, the one, one and a half inches 
larger than the other (in diameter). Make nice 
orange jelly of gelatine, pour a portion of it into the 
larger mould; pare, quarter, and free from every 
vestige of skin, a half a dozen oranges, carefully 
separate the quarters, into three or four pieces, and 
cover the jelly with a layer, two or three slices in 
depth, place on ice to set. When the jelly is firm, 
place on it tlie smaller mould, and fill the space be- 
tween the two with sliced oranges, sugar and jelly, 
until level with the top. Whip one pint of cream, 
the whites of two eggs beaten stiff, and half an ounce 
of gelatine dissolved in a little cream with lump of 
sugar rubbed upon the orange skin until the zest has 
flavored it. When the jelly has set, pour warm 
water into the inner mould and remove it at once, 
turn the jelly out upon a glass or silver dish, and fill 
the other space with the whip. Strawberry, raspberry 
or peach jelly and fruit may be substituted if desired. 
With peaches fiavor the cream with one-fourth of a 
drop of the oil, or a teaspoon of extract of bitter 
almonds, or peach. 



AND USEFUL llOUSKIIOLD HINTS. 225 

CHAKLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 pint of cream whiiDped light, -J ounce of gelatine 
dissolved in 1 gill of hot milk, 2 whites of eggs well 
beaten, 1 small cup of pulverized sugar. Flavor with 
bitter almond and vanilla. Mix the whipped cream, 
eggs and sugar, and let get quite cold before adding 
the gelatine and milk. Line a mould with slices of 
sponge cake, or lady-fingers, and fill with the mixture. 
Set upon the ice to cool. 

ALMOND BLANO MANGE. 

Mrs. M. W. Miller. 

1 quart of milk, 3 eggs, 5 tablespoons of corn- 
starch, a pinch of salt, sugar to sweeten a little. Let 
the milk come to a boil slowly. Blanch half a pound 
of almonds. Pound in a mortar with loaf sugar, 
putting into the mortar two or three almonds and a 
lump of the sugar at a time. As soon as they are 
beaten as fine as possible, pour the paste into the 
milk, letting them warm gradually with the milk. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs with the corn starch, salt 
and sugar, and stir into the scalding milk. Flavor 
with vanilla strongly. Just before taking from the 
fire, stir in the whites beaten to a stifi" froth. Pour 
into a mould and let get cold. Take fruit syrup as a 
sauce, pouring over the whole. 
15 



226 MRS. OWKXS' COOK BOOK 

ISINGLASS BLANC MANGE. 

Mrs. E. Judson. 

One ounce of isinglass soaked for an hour in 
enougli of the milk to cover it. The remainder of 
one quart of milk heated smoking liot, but not boil- 
ing, in a farina kettle. To this, add the soaked isin- 
glass and stir constantly till it is dissolved. Add 
about one tablespoon of sugar, and when it is thor- 
oughly dissolved, take off the fire, and allow it to 
cool. When cool, not cold, add one teaspoon of 
vanilla, or other flavoring. Then jDOur into moulds 
and set in a cool place to harden. Eat with cream or 
sugar. 

FRUIT BLANC MANGE. 

Ann a. R. 

Use strawberries or raspberries, two-thirds juice 
and one-third water; boil this and stir into it sufficient 
corn-starch to thicken it. Put it in one large dish; 
when cool turn it over on a plate and stick long nar- 
row slices of sweet almonds into it. This will make 
a very pretty effect. 

SOUFFLE YANILLA. 

Separate the whites and yolks of four eggs; 
mix two tablespoons of powdered sugar, a small 



:^i 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 227 

pinch of salt, and a few drops of strong extract 
of vanilla with the yolks. Have the whites 
beaten a long time, even after they seem as light as 
possible. Heat and butter an earthern dish, and pour 
in two-thirds of the mixture. Put in a very hot 
oven, and, after a few minutes, open the oven door, 
and you will find that it has risen to a high pyramid. 
Break open the apex with a fork and pour the re- 
mainder of the uncooked portion into the opening. 
Work fast, and close the door as soon as possible. 
Leave the dish in a few minutes. Let it turn a 
golden brown, and try with a straw as yon would 
cake. It will boil and bubble at the top, but this 
will not injure the looks or taste. Eat with sugar 
and lemon. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

One quart of sweet milk put over hot water to 
heat. Whites of six eggs beaten stiff and laid on 
the milk until cooked. Remove to a platter. Beat 
the yolks with three tablespoons of sugar. Pour 
hot milk over them, instead of putting the eggs into 
the milk, and there will be no danger of the milk' 
curdling. Flavor to suit. Stir till cooked through. 
Turn into custard dish. A silver spoon in the glass 
dish will prevent its breaking. Put the whites on 
top, and serve with a bit of jelly on each dish at table. 



228 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

3 pints of milk, 6 eggs well beaten, pinch of salt, 
sugar and flavor to taste. Mix together and pour 
into cups and set in a baking pan of boiling water, 
to reach to the top of the custard, if possible. As 
soon as done, set cups in a pan of cold water. They 
will be firm and not watery. The custard may be 
baked in one large dish, if preferred, 

[Custards are very nice set in a steamer and cooked 
in cups. Ed.] 

PINE-APPLE CREAM. 

Chop one can pine-apple; add cup sugar; cook till 
clear; put in a dish one ounce gelatine that has been 
dissolved in half cup warm water; add one quart milk; 
let come to a boil; sweeten to taste; flavor with lem- 
on; strain slowly over the pine-apple. 

LEMON HONEY. 

Take 6 well beaten eggs, 3 lemons, grated rind, 
1 pound of white sugar, 2 ounces of butter. Add 
juice of lemons, stir butter and sugar to a cream, 
then add all but the eggs, and simmer. When hot, 
turn in the eggs, stir quickly for five minutes and 
take from the fire, setting in a pan of cold water. 
Yery nice for jelly cake or hubbs, and will keep 
months. 



AWD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 229 

LEMON EXTKACT. 

Mrs. A. C. Hastings. 

Put the rind of three lemons in a glass jar and 
pour over it one pint of alcohol. Let it stand four 
days, pour off into a bottle and add one ounce of the 
oil of lemon, and you have a pint of lemon extract 
at less than one-fourth the usual price. 

LEMON ICE. 

Make a rich lemonade. Strain into the freezer. 
Then add the beaten whites of two eggs to a quart 
or little more of the lemonade. Freeze. 

OKANGE ICE. 

8 oranges, 1 pound of sugar, 1 lemon, 1 quart and 
a cup of water. Make a syrup of the sugar and 
water, skim it well, cool, add the juice of the oranges. 
Boil up the rinds and strain the water into the syrup, 
and add the juice and rind of a lemon same way. 
Freeze. 

PINE-APPLE WATER ICE. 

Peel and pound a pine-apple and put through a 
sieve. Add the juice of one or two lemons with 
half a cup of water and sugar to taste. Strain into 
the freezer. 



230 ME8. OWENS' COOK BOOK 



PUDDINGS. 

Pudding moulds or basins must be well buttered 
and the puddings put into boiling water and the 
water kept boiling all the time. Have the water 
come up as high as the pudding in the mould. Fill 
up with boiling water as fast as it evaporates. If a 
bag is used, wring it out of hot water, and flour it 
well; and when done, dip into cold water, and the 
pudding will come out easily. The same may be 
done with a mould. It takes as long again to boil or 
steam it, as it does to bake. 

For corn-starch, desiccated cocoanut and snow-flake 
puddings, the recipes on the packages are perfectly 
reliable, and it is useless to take up the room in a 
cook book to re-print them. 

We give a variety of both hard and liquid sauces. 
The taste of the person, and the character of the 
pudding, must determine which to use. 

BEE-HIYE SAUCE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 
Make a hard pudding sauce, and when beaten very 
light, set aside three or four tablespoons in a plate. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 281 

To the remainder, add clierrj, currant or cranberry 
juice, or jelly, or chocolate. Beat the coloring mat- 
ter in well, and shape in a conical form. Eoll half 
sheet of stiff note-paper into a long narrow funnel. 
Tie a string around it to keep it in shape and fill 
with the uncolored sauce. Squeeze it out gently, 
commencing at the base of the cone and winding it 
about it to the top, leaving alternate light and dark 
stripes. 

HAED SAUCE FOE PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. A. S. J. 

1 ounce of butter, 2 ounces of sugar, beaten till 
creamy. Stir in thoroughly the beaten yolk of an 
egg. Flavor to suit. 

ANOTHER 

2 tablespoons of butter, 10 tablespoons of sugar. 
Beat to a cream. Kutmeg. 

LIQUID SAUCE. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, 4 tablespoons of sugar, 1 of flour, 
2 cups of milk. ' Set on fire, and stir until it thickens. 
Flavor to taste. 

ANOTHEE. 

1 cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter beaten to a cream. 
Add the beaten white of one egg, flavor with lemon 
or nutmeg. Add one cup of boiling water just be- 
fore sei-ving. 



232 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

ANOTHER. 

1 cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 2 cups of water, 
large tablespoon of flour, flavoring. Mix and boil a 
long time on back of stove. 

ANOTHER 

I of a cup of butter, 1^ cups of sugar, 1 egg, juice 
and grated rind of a lemon; all beaten well together. 
Just before serving, pour on the beaten mixture 1 
pint of boiling water. This is good for all sorts of 
puddings. 

YINEOAE SAUCE. 

1 cup of brown sugar, 1 cup of water, tablespoon 
of butter, -J teaspoon of salt, a few drops essence of 
lemon, a tablespoon of vinegar, a tablespoon of flour. 
Boil together enough to cook the flour. 

JELLY SAUCE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

■| glass of currant jellv, 1 tablespoon of butter, 
1 dessertspoon of corn-starch, juice of 1 lemon, 1 
cup of boiling water. Sweeten to taste. Beat the 
sugar and butter together and corn-starch dissolved 
in a little cold water. Then add jelly, a little at a 
time ; next, the boiling water, and let it just boil up. 
Flavor. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 233 

JELLY SAUCE— PLAINEK. 

Juliet Corson. 

2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 tablespoon of jelly, 1 tea- 
spoon of corn-starch, 1 pint of water. Cook just 
enough to incorporate together and leave no raw taste 
of the starch. Kice to serve with Cabinet Pudding. 

CEEAM SAUCE. 

Juliet Corson. 
1 tablespoon of butter melted with 1 tablespoon of 
flour over the fire, in a saucepan ; add 4 tablespoons of 
sugar, and a pint of hot water. Boil 2 minutes. If 
wanted very nice, remove from the fire, and stir in 
the beaten white of an egg. 

BAEONESS PUDDINGS. 

Juliet Corson. 
One-half pound of suet, same of raisins chopped, 
same of stale bread broken in crumbs, (cracker will 
not answer,) ^ pound of sugar, 1 pint of milk. 
Flour a pudding-cloth thickly after dipping in hot 
water. Boil 4 hours. Spice may be added. If 
wished, it may be made into smaller puddings and 
boiled in small cloths. Tie rather closely, as it will 
not swell much. A grated rind and juice of orange 
in place of part of the milk, is nice. Serve with 
sauce or powdered sugar, as preferred. 



234 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 
5 apples pared and quartered and sprinkled with 
sugar, 1 tablespoon of butter, ^ cup of sugar, ^ cup 
of milk, 1 egg, 1 heaping teaspoon of baking powder, 
and flour to make a thick batter. Pour over the 
apples and bake slowly. 

APPLE FPvUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. 

5 large apples (chopped), 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup 
of sugar, 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of flour, -J cup 
of butter, 2 eggs, little salt, butter and sugar worked 
together; bake 1 hour; eat with sauce. Take 1 tea- 
cup of sugar, "I teacup of butter; stir together until 
light; flavor with wine or essence of lemon; smooth 
the top with a knife, and grate nutmeg over it. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. B. 

1 cup of tapiofc-n soaked several hours in 6 cups of 
water. Add 6 chopped apples and 1 cup of sugar. 
Bake 4 hours slowly. Eat warm or cold, with cream. 

APPLE SAGO PUDDING. 

American Home. 

For a 2-quart pudding dish, take a cup of sago, 
(tapioca if preferred) put it in a pan of cold water, 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 235 

let heat and cook gradually, adding hot water; if 
required, add a little salt. In the meantime, pare 
and core apples enough to fill the dish. Fill the 
, holes with sugar and season with nutmeg. Put a 
little water in the dish and partly bake them, then 
take the dish out, pour the sago over, return and bake 
till apples are done. Eat with sugar and cream. 
Better to be done half an hour before meal time. 
One of my best puddings. 

BAKING-DAT PUDDING. 

Grandma Graves. 

On baking day, take 1^ cups of dough, work in a 
little shortening, place in a basin. Let it get light 
and steam for 1 hour. If the basin has no tube, put 
an inverted cup in the center. Eat with sauce made 
of 1 large cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 1 pint of 
water. Boil 1 hour, thicken slightly with flour and 
flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. (Splendid.) 

BATTEK PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. B. DeLon. 

7 eggs, 11 heaping tablespoons of flour, 1 quart of 
milk, teaspoon of salt. 

BIKD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 
3 pints of boiling milk, 6 crackers rolled, 1 cup oi 



236 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

raisins; when cool, add 4 well beaten eggs and 1 cup 
of sugar. Pour the mixture over 4 apples pared and 
cored with corer. Bake £ of an hour. Serve with 
sauce. 

BIRD'S NEST. 
Anna P. 

Pare and cut up good cooking apples till a 2-quart 
basin is •§ full. Sprinkle with sugar, and pour over 
a little water. Make a batter of 1^ cups of milk, 
2 eggs, 1 tablespoon of butter, 1^ tablespoons of 
sugar, 2 teaspoons of baking powder and flour to 
thicken like muffins. Pour over and bake slowly in 
a steady oven. Serve with sugar and cream. 

OASSEL PUDDINGS. 
Juliet Corson. 

For 6 cups, take 4 ounces of butter, same of sugar, 
beat to a cream, add the grated rind of a lemon, 4 
ounces of flour, yolks of 2 eggs, and lastly, the beaten 
whites. Bake them in buttered cups from 20 to 30 
minutes. Test them with a broom straw. Eat with 
following sauce: Squeeze the juice of a lemon till 
you get a tablespoon, 4 heaping tablespoons of sugar, 
and 2 of butter. Beat well together. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 237 

BAKED SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. L. D. Rankin, Mendham, N. J. 

1 quart of milk, scald all except a teacup, pour hot 
milk on 5 tablespoons of corn-meal, ^ teaspoon of 
salt, 1 teaspoon of ginger, -^ nutmeg, 1 cup of mo. 
lasses, -^ cup of chopped suet. Butter a pudding 
dish, pour in the cup of cold milk, then the mixture, 
and bake 2 hours. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. B. Baldwin. 

1 cup of corn-meal stirred slowly into 1 quart of 
boiling milk and water, 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 cup 
of sugar, "I cup of flour, 5 eggs, cinnamon and cloves. 
A "I cup or more of cold milk may be added. Bake 
3 or 4 hours. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

1 quart of sweet milk boiled, 2 eggs, added well 
beaten with 3 tablespoons of meal and 1 of flour, 
little salt. Bake 45 minutes. Serve with sugar. 

ANOTHER 
Marrion Clinton, Menasha, Wi^:. 

8 pints of milk. When scalding hot, stir in •§ cup 
of corn-meal and sugar to taste. When cooked, take 



238 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

off, cooi, add 1 beaten egg, cup of raisins, butter size 
of an egg, and bake till it wheys. Add spice, if 
liked, 

BOILED INDIAN SUET PUDDING. 

Author's Recipe. 

^ a pound of beef suet chopped fine, 1-| cups of 
corn-meal, 1-| cups of hot water, 2 large iron spoons 
of flour, 1 cup of brown sugar, -| teaspoon of salera- 
tus, "I teaspoon of salt. Steam 4 hours, or longer. 
Eat with sugar and cream. (Very nice.) 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. A. Smitli. 

1 pint of sweet milk, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 table- 
spoon of wheat flour, 10 tablespoons of corn-meal, 
1 tablespoon of butter, 2 tablespoons of brown sugar, 
1 tablespoon of molasses, 4 tablespoons of dried ber- 
ries, 1 teaspoon of soda. Boil 3 hours, or longer if 
a larger pudding is made. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

2 cups Indian meal, 2 cups of flour, 1 egg, -J cup 
of molasses, one teaspoon of soda, 2 teaspoons of 
cream of tartar. Wet with milk till about as thick 
as cake. Steam 3 hours. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 239 

BOILED BKEAD PUDDING. 

Take pieces of dry bread, about a quart, soak in 
warm water till soft. Add 3 beaten eggs, 1 cup of 
sugar, 1 cup of raisins. Mix well. Boil in a bag or 
pudding mould an hour or two. Eat witb following 
sauce: 3 tablespoons of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 1 
tablespoon of flour, 1 pint of boiling water. Flavor 
with lemon. 

BUCKEYE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Oliver P. Arnold, White Pigeon, Mick. 

1 cup of raisins, 1-i^ cups of molasses, 1 cup of 
warm water, 2^ cups of flour, dessert-spoon of soda, 
yolks of 2 eggs. Steam 2 hours. Sauce: 1 cup of 
pulverized sugar, ^ cup of butter, beat well, 1 tea- 
spoon of warm water, whites of two eggs beaten stiff 
and put in last. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Juliet Corson. 

Use a smooth plain mould with straight sides. 
Butter it thickly with cold butter. Stick all aromid 
it, on the sides and bottom, small slices of French can- 
died fruit if wished very fine, or raisins and currants 
for a plainer pudding. They may be put on in rings, 
stars, or any fancy shapes. Half a pound is sufficient 



240 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

for a tliree pint mould. Place slices of cake, sponge 
is best, on the layers of fruit; then fill the mould 
with alternate layers of fruit and cake. Pour over 
all a simple custard made of six eggs, a pint of milk 
and four tablespoons of sugar. Steam the pudding, 
either in a kettle of water over the fire, allowing the 
water to come half way up the side, or in a pan of 
water set in the oven. Cook about three-quarters of 
an hour; but test it, by running a knife dowTi the 
center. If no liquid adheres, it is done. Bread may 
be used instead of cake. Serve either with powdered 
sugar dusted over, or with sauce. 

CASSAYA PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 pint of milk. Stir in ^ cup of cassava, -J cup 
of cocoanut, either fresh or desiccated, 2 eggs, 1 table- 
spoon of butter ; salt, sugar and vanilla to taste. Cook 
like boiled custard. When done, put it in the dish in 
which it is to be served, and beat the white of one 
egg to a stiff" froth and lay over the top smoothly, and 
brown in the oven. Some prefer a tablespoon pul- 
verized sugar added to the frosting. Eat warm or 
cold, with jelly. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 241 

nOCOANUT PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 quart of milk, 4 eggs, 1 cup of grated bread- 
crumbs, 1 cup of sugar, 1 grated cogoanut, salt and 
flour. Bake lialf an hour. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. S. J. 

1 cup of milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 or 3 eggs well 
beaten, a little salt, 1 teaspoon of soda, 2 of cream 
of tartar. Bake quickly and eat hot with rich sauce. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Hn. Samuel Packard, Oak Park, 111. 

Soak 8 tablespoons of tapioca in water over niglit. 
Put it in a quart of boiling milk. Cook half an hour. 
Beat yolks of 4 eggs, with 1 cup of sugar, add 3 table- 
spoons of prepared cocoanut; stir in and boil ten 
minutes longer. Pour into pudding dish. Beat the 
whites of eggs to a stifi" froth, with 3 tablespoons of 
sugar added. Pour this over the top. Then sprinkle 
cocoanut over all. Set in oven and brown. (Very 
nice.) 

16 



242 MIIS, OWEXS' COOK BOOK 

CUKREY PUDDING. 

Mrs. L. Currey. 

1 quart of bread crumbs softened in boiling water. 
1 cup of cbopped suet, 1 cup of currants or any 
otlier fruit, i cup of molasses, 2 e2:gs, pinch of salt. 
Bake in a hot oven about half an hour. Serve with 
any kind of sauce. 

HEK'S l^EST. 

Author's Eecipe. 

Use plain blanc mange recipe on corn starch pack- 
age. Take half a dozen or a dozen ea:^: shells and fill with 
the blanc mange while warm. "When cold, break the 
shell off and put them in a glass dish. Cut small strips 
of lemon peel and boil in a clear syruj^ till tender. 
Place them around the egg-forms, and make a boiled 
custard and pour over all. (Yery pretty and very 
good.) 

KISS PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 quart of sweet milk, 3 tablespoons of corn-starch, 
1 cup of sugar, 5 yolks of eggs, salt, flavor. Boil 
the milk, and stir in the starch wet with cold milk; 
add the sugar and eixgi^, and let it boil a few minutes. 
Make a frosting of the whites, with a little more 
sugar, and brown in the oven. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 243 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Put some milk over tlie fire, with a bit of lemon- 
peel or essence of lemon; let it boil; then having 
made a large cup of flour into a smooth paste with a 
little cold milk, stir it, by degrees, into the boiling 
milk; let it boil, stirring it all the time until it is 
thick ; then dip a bowl in cold water, pour the pud- 
ding in, and let it cool a little before turning it out. 
Eat with butter and sugar sauce. The juice of a 
lemon is an improvement. 

MY FAYOKITE PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. A. S. 

1 pint of milk. When scalding hot, stir in -J pint 
of Indian meal and a teaspoon of salt. Take 6 me- 
dium sized sweet apples, pare and cut in pieces, and 
stir in this mixture. Bake 3 hours. Sweetened 
cream with nutmeg, for sauce. 

OLD ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

1 pound of suet chopped fine, ^ pound of bread 
crumbs, 1 pound of sugar, nearly 1 pound of flour, 
1 pound of currants, 1 pound of raisins stoned, 1 
pound of candied lemon, orange and citron mixed, 
6 eggs, 1 quart of milk. Have the bread dry, and 
rub the inside of the loaf through a colander. Weigh 



244 MKS, OWENS' COOK BOOK 

it after it is rubbed through. Mix the snet, bread 
and sugar together; add the flour, fruit, and peel 
shredded up fine. The beaten eggs and milk mixed 
together, and added last. I fill several small basins, 
tie a cloth over the top and boil them in a wash boiler 
for 10 hours. In England, I am told, they often cook 
them longer still. Any puddings left over may be boiled 
again, and are as good as new the next fourth of July. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

6 oranges, peeled, sliced thin and sprinkled with 
sugar. Make a boiled custard of 1 pint of milk, 
yolks of 3 eggs, pinch of salt, 1 tablespoon of corn- 
starch, and 3 tablespoons of sugar. When cool, pour 
it over the oranges. Whip the whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth; add ^ cup of sugar and put on the top. 
Set the dish in a pan of water and put in a hot oven 
a few seconds till the frosting is browned. To be 
eaten cold. (Yery delicious.) 

ORANGE PUDDING— COOKED. 

2 oranges, juice of both and grated peel of 1 ; juice 
of 1 lemon; ^ pound lady's fingers, stale and 
crumbed, 2 cups of milk, 4 eggs, ^ cup of sugar, 
1 tablespoon of corn-starch wet with water, 1 table- 
spoon of butter, melted. Soak the crumbs in the 
milk (raw), whip up light and add the eggs and sugar, 



AND trSEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 245 

already beaten to a cream with the batter. N"ext the 
com-8tarch, and when the mould is buttered and 
water boiling hard, stir in the juice and peel of the 
fruit. Do this quickly, and plunge the mould directlj 
into the hot water. Boil one hour; turn out and eat 
with rich sauce. 

PINE APPLE PUDDmG. 
Author's Recipe. 

Take 1 fresh pine apple, or a two-pound can, cut 
into small pieces in a pudding dish, strew plentifully 
with sugar and let stand several hours. Take 1 quart 
of milk, put the greater part of it in a pail and set 
into boiling water. Use the remainder of the quart 
to wet up 6 tablespoons of loose sifted flour. Mix it 
with the beaten yolks of 6 eggs, -^ cup of sugar and 
•| a saltspoon of salt. Stir into the scalding milk. 
"When cooked, remove, and when cool, or nearly so, 
pour over the fruit. Make a frosting of beaten 
whites of eggs, with 3 tablespoons of sugar. Put 
over the top and brown in a quick oven. 

PLUM DUFF. 
Mrs. E. B. B. 

1 cup of butter, 1^ cups of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 
1 large ci^p of raisins, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder. Flour to make stiff batter. Steam 3 or 4 
hours. 



246 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

PUFF PUDDING. 

Mrs. Dr. Baker. 

1 quart of milk, 6 eggs, 6 tablespoons of flour, 
salt. Bake 20 minutes, or half an hour. Serve w/th 
liquid sauce, flavored with lemon. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

1 pint of fine grated bread crumbs, 1 quart of milk, 
1 cup of sugar, the yolks of four eggs beaten, the 
grated rind of a lemon, a piece of butter the size of 
an egg. Bake until done, but not watery. Whip 
the whites of the eggs stiff, beat in a teacup of sugar, 
in which has been strained the juice of lemon. Spread 
over the pudding a layer of jelly ; pour the whites of 
the eggs over this; replace in the oven; brown 
sKghtly. To be eaten cold, with cream if preferred. 
(Decidedly the best of all puddings.) 

RICE HANDY-ANDY. 

Take a cup of raw rice and a cup of raisins; put 
together in a bag, tie securely, leaving plenty of room 
to swell. Boil about two hours in water salted a 
little. To be sliced and eaten with cream and sugar. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

^ cup of rice, 3 pints of milk, ^ cup of sugar, 
teaspoon of butter, pinch of salt. Stir frequently, 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 247 

while baking. It should be of the consistence of 
cream when done. Bake two or three hours. Raisins 
may be used, if liked. 

RICH TAPIOCA PUDDIN^G. 

Mrs. A. S. J. 

Put 1 cup of tapioca in 1 quart of milk for 2 hours. 
Then add -J cup of sugar, 1 cup of raisins, yolks of 
3 eggs well beaten, and a little salt. Bake slowly 1 
hour. Take whites, beat to a stiff froth ; add 2 table- 
spoons of sugar; lemon flavor. Spread over and brown. 

ROLLED PUDDING. 

1 pint of flour, 2 small teaspoons of baking powder, 
salt, milk to make soft enough to handle. Roll thin; 
spread all over it fresh cranberries, candied cherries, 
or any sauce. Roll up like a jelly roll. Lay in a 
steamer and steam one hour. Serve with sauce. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. B. Baldwin. 

4 tablespoons of sago soaked in water all night,. 
1-^ pints of milk, 4 eggs, pinch of salt, 1 small cup 
of sugar. Lemon-peelj cinnamon, nutmeg, either, or 
all. Bake slowly. 



248 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

SALLY LUNN. 

Mrs. Dr. B. M. Baker 

1 cup of sugar well beaten with 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
of cream of tartar added to 1 cup of milk and mixed 
witli sugar and eggs. Then stir in flour to a thin 
batter, and add -| teaspoon of soda, little salt, and stir 
briskly, and put in a buttered pan and bake in a quick 
oven. Sauce for the above: ■§ pint of water, 1 cup 
of sugar, 1 tablespoon of butter, nutmeg. A little 
vinegar or lemon-juice. 

SNOW BALLS. 

Mould simple boiled rice in teacups. When turned 
out, serve with cream and sugar, or boiled custard. 
A pretty effect is obtained by using red sugar-sand 
to sweeten the rice before moulding. Call it "Red 
Rice." 

SNOW PUDDING. 



■J a box of gelatine, whites of 3 eggs, 2 teacups of 
sugar, pint of hot water, juice of 1 lemon. Dissolve 
gelatine in the water; then add lemon-juice and sugar; 
mix well, and strain through flannel into a large mix- 
ing bowl. When cool enough to begin to thicken 
stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 249 

with egg beater, and beat until it is thick and 
snow-white all through. It will take a half hour or 
longer, and the colder the better. Turn into moulds 
which have been dipped in cold water, or pile in 
pyramid form in the center of a glass dish, leaving a 
space all around. Keep on ice till the next day. 
Make a soft custard with a pint of milk, yolks of the 
3 eggs, pinch of salt, 4 tablespoons of sugar, little 
grated lemon rind. The custai-d should be very cold, 
and if the pudding is in a pyramid, pour the custard 
around it (not over it). If it is in a mould, serve the 
custard from a pitcher. (Yery delicious.) 

SUET PUDDING. 
Author's Recipe. 

1 cnp of fine chopped suet, 1 cup of brown sugar, 
1 cup of hot water, 1 cup of raisins chopped, salt, 2 
teaspoons of baking powder, teaspoon each of cinna- 
mon, cloves and nutmeg. Flour to make stiff batter. 
Steam from 2 to 5 hours. The longer the better. 
To be eaten with liquid sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. A. Smith. 

1 cup of chopped suet, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of 
raisins, 1 cup of sour milk, 3 cups of flour, 1 tea- 
spoon of soda, salt. Steam 8 hours. 



250 MRS. OAVENS' COOK BOOK 

SUET PUDDING. . 

Mrs. M. A. S. 

1 pound of beef suet chopped fine, 1 pint of sonr 
milk, 1 egg, ^ cup of molasses, 1 teaspoon each of 
soda, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and salt, 1 cup of 
raisins, -| cup of currants. Steam 4 hours. Flour 
to thicken like cake. Sauce: 1 pint of hot water, 
1 cujD of sugar, 2 tablespoons of flour, ^ cup of but- 
ter. Flavor to taste. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. A. Woodworth. 

1 cup of chojjped suet, 1 cup of raisins or currants, 
1 cup of chopped apples, dried or green, 1 cup of 
sugar, 1 cup of sour milk, 2 cups of flour, spices ; no 
soda. Steam. Eat with sauce. 

THICKENED RICE. 

Lizzie Hill, Maysville, Ky. 
1 cup of rice boiled in water until soft. Add a 
pint of milk, little salt, 2 eggs well beaten, -| cup of 
sugar, tablespoon of flour in some cold milk; flavor- 
ing. Boil up. Eat cold or warm. It does not re- 
quire sauce, and is much nicer than one would think. 

WASHDAY PUDDING. 
Put a layer of bread crumbs in a pudding dish, 



.'J 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 251 

with little lumps of butter over them. Then a layer of 
chopped apple with sugar and cinnamon. Another 
layer of crumbs and another of apple. So on, until 
the dish is full. Pour over a cup of water, and bake 
till the apple is done. Eat with cream and sugar 



FAMILY BEVERAGES. 

TEA. 

"Except the water boiliBg be, 
Filling the tea-pot spoils the tea." 

After scalding thd tea-pot put in a teaspoon of tea 
for one person, but of course a less proportionate 
amount if for many persons. Pour less than a cup 
of actually boiling and freshly boiled water on. Let 
steep on the back of the stove a short time, and fill 
up the required amount with boiling water. Japan 
tea is better for families whose meals are kept wait- 
ing. Its flavor is not injured by long standing as 
much as many other teas. If tea boils, the tannic acid 
is extracted, and acts with very bad effects on the 
coats of the stomach. 



252 ME8. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

COFFEE. 

A tablespoon of ground coffee for one person, 3 
tablespoons are sufficient for 4 persons. Take egg 
enough to moisten the coffee, put in a pinch of salt. 
Pour on a cup of cold water. Set on the hot stove. 
When it conies to a boil iill with boiling w^ter and 
Bet back where it can not boil. If it is necessary to 
use cold water to settle coffee, take a little in a cup 
at a considerable height above the coffee-pot and pour 
it in from there. A little salt is always an improve- 
ment to coffee. If coffee is allowed to boil the tannic 
acid is extracted and it wdll be bitter and unhealthy. 
By combining with the milk an indigestible sub- 
stance is formed in the stomach. 

COFFEE. 

Put the coffee in the coffee-pot and fill up with 
cold water at first. Let boil up once and set back. 
If any cold remains after breakfast strain it and keep 
it to wet up the next batch. Wash the coffee boiler 
clean every day. If the bottom gets sticky boil up 
some cooking soda in it until it is cleansed. 

The coffee we prefer in our family is equal parts 
of Old Government Java and Mocha. But Rio and 
Java make a very pleasant di-ink. It is all a matter 
of taste. 



AND L'SEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 253 

A very popular mixture of coffee for boarding- 
houses is one-fourth Java, one-fourth Chicory, and 
one-half Rio^ mixed and ground together. 

COFFEE FOR FESTIVALS. 

Put the ground coffee into flannel bags each hold- 
ing half a pound, and sew up tightly. When the 
first coffee is wanted put as much water in a wash 
boiler as will be required ; when it boils throw in a 
couple of the bags and steep long enough to extract 
the strength. Then take them out. Add boiling 
water when necessary and throw in another bag, let- 
ting it remain as before. In this way, by removing 
the old and adding the new, the beverage will be 
kept aromatic as well as strong, and the bitterness oi 
long boiled coffee be prevented. 

VIENNA COFFEE. 

Make your coffee in your usual way. Put one 
quart of cream into an oatmeal cooker, or if you have 
none, into a pitcher in a kettle of boiling water. 
Keep the water boiling. Beat the white of an egg 
to a froth, put with it 3 tablespoons cold milk, mix 
well and add to the cream after removing from the 
fire. Stir briskly for a minute and serve in the 
coffee cups with the coffee. 



254 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

ICED TEA. 

It is better to j)iit the tea in cold water and set in 
tlie ice box the morning of the day it is to be used 
for supper. The flavor is better than if steeped in 
hot water. 

PEEMIUM CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape fine about one square of a cake, add it to 
an equal quantity of sugar; put tbese into a pint of 
boiling milk and water (half and half) and stir con- 
stantly for two or three minutes. Some prefer boil- 
ing ten minutes. 

EGG CHOCOLATE. 

Allow about 1 egg to 2 cups. Prepare this choco- 
late as above, and the last thing stir in briskly the 
well-beaten yolks of the eggs, and at the same time 
have the whites beaten to a stiff froth and jxit a little 
on top of each cup (very hot) and serve. (Yery fine.) 

BEEAKFAST COCOA. 

Put a teaspoon of the powder into a breakfast cup, 
add a tablespoon of boiling water and mix thoroughly. 
Then add equal parts of boiling water and boiled 
milk, and sweeten to taste. Let it boil a couple of 
minutes. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 255 

COCOA SHELLS. 

Take about two ounces of the shells and pour 3 
pints of boiling water over them. Boil rapidly half 
an hour. Serve like cofi'ee. 

BOTTLED SODA- WATER 

1 quart water, 2 pounds white sugar, 1 ounce tar- 
taric acid, ^ ounce essence, 2 lemons, 2 eggs beaten, 
1 tablespoon flour. Strain, bottle, and shake every 
day for a week. When you wish a glass of soda- 
water, take one-third cream, two-thirds water, and 
add "I teaspoon soda; stir and drink immediately. 
You can use sassafras, wintergreen, or any other 
essence you wish. Some prefer to flavor it to taste 
when prej)aring it to drink. Be sure to use bicarbo- 
nate of soda, and buy it of a druggist. The soda we 
prof'vae at groceries is apt to contain c;:t-:;nate of 
80''- and is unhealthy. 

RASPBEERY KECTAR. 

Pour over 2 quarts of ripe raspberries 1 quart o/ 
vinegar. Let it stand till the fruit ferments; strain 
and to every pint of juice, add £ of a pound of loaf 
sugar. Simmer 20 minutes. 

IMPERIAL. 

2 ounces of cream of tartar, juice and rind of 2 



256 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

lemons ; put into a stone jar, pour over it 7 quarts of 
boiling water, stir and cover closely; when cold, 
sweeten to taste, strain and bottle. 

CKEAM BEER. 

Mrs. Hattie A. Harris, Clinton, Iowa. 

It is an effervescent drink and much pleasanter, 1 
think, than soda-water. 2 ounces tartaric acid, 2 
pounds white sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, 3 pints of 
water; boil together five minutes; when nearly cold 
add, after being beaten together, the whites of 3 eggs, 
^ cup flour, and ^ ounce of essence of wintergreen. 
Some other essence may be used if preferred. After 
being well mixed, bottle and keep in a cool place. 
For a drink of this, take 2 tablespoons of the syrup 
to 1 tumbler of water, and add ;| of a teaspoon of 
soda. Drink quickly. 

SUGAR BEER. 

2 pounds loaf sugar, 3 pints water, juice of half a 
lemon, 2 ounces tartaric acid. Boil all 5 minutes. 
When nearly cool add the whites of 3 eggs well 
beaten and -| cup of flour. 

CORN BEER. 

Cold water, 5 gallons; sound, nice corn, 1 quart; 
molasses, 2 quai'ts; put al' into a keg of this size; 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 257 

sliautt ^vivi. ind in two or three days a fermentation 
will have been brought on as nicely as with yeast. 
Keep it bunged tight. It may be flavored with oils 
of spruce or lemon, if desired, by pouring on to the 
oils 1 or 2 quarts of the water boiling hot. The 
corn will last five or six makings. If it gets too 
sour, add more molasses and water in the same pro- 
portions. It is cheap, healthy, and no bother with 
yeast. 

GINGER POP. 

"Water, 5-| gallons; ginger root, bruised, ^ pound; 
tartaric acid, ^ ounce; white sugar, 2^ pounds; whites 
of 3 eggs, well beaten ; lemon oil, 1 teaspoon ; yeast, 
1 gill. Boil the root for 30 minutes in 1 gallon of 
the water, strain off and put the oil in while hot; 
mix. Make over night, and in the morning skim 
and bottle, keeping out sedimfints. 



SPRUCE BEER. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

3 gallons warm water, 1 quart molasses, 1 large 
spoon essence of spruce, 1 large spoon essence of 
wintergreen, 1 pint good yeast. Let it remain over 
night in a warm place and bottle in the morning. 
17 



258 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

LEMON BEEK. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

10 gallons water, 6 peeled lemons sliced, ^ pound 
ginger, J pound cream of tartar, 3 grated nutmegs. 
Boil all together. When cool enough add the beaten 
whites of 6 eggs and ^ pint yeast, and let it ferment 
12 hours. Strain and bottle. It is better after 
standing a day or two. 

HOME BREWED BEEE. 

10 gallons water, 1 pint loose hops, 1 gallon mo- 
lasses, 2 ounces essence of sj^ruce, 1 ounce ginger, 1 
ounce cream of tartar. Boil 10 minutes; when cool 
enough add ^ pint of yeast. Let it ferment 12 hours, 
then bottle up or put it into casks. 

CREAM SODA. 

3 ounces tartaric acid, 4 pounds sugar, 5 pints 
water, whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth. Boil 4 
minutes after adding the eggs, stirring constantly. 
Cool, flavor with ^ ounce of vanilla. Cork tight. 
Use 2 tablespoons to a glass of ice water, stirring in 
a pinch of soda. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 259 

SHAM CHAMPAGNE. 

1 ounce tartaric acid, -^ ounce ginger root, 4 ounces 
brewer's jeast, 1^ pounds white sugar, 1 good-sized 
lemon. Slice the lemon, bruise the ginger, mix all 
together except the jeast. Boil 2^ gallons water and 
pour it on the mixture. Let it cool to blood heat, 
add the yeast, let it stand all day in the sun, and at 
night bottle. It may be used in two days 

STEAWBERRT SHEEBET. 

1 quart of strawberries, 3 pints of water, 1 lemon 
— the juice only, 1 tablespoon orange-flower water, 
^ pound white sugar. The strawberries should be 
fresh and ripe. Crush to a smooth paste, add the 
rest of the ingredients (except the sugar) and let it 
stand 3 hours. Strain over the sugar, squeezing the 
cloth hard; stir until the sugar is dissolved, strain 
again and set in ice for two hours or more before 
you use it. 

PORTABLE LEMONADE. 

Press your hand on the lemon and roll it back and 
forth briskly on the table, to make it squeeze more 
easily; then press the juice into a bowl or tumbler — 
never into a tin, strain out all the seeds as they give 



260 MKS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

a bad taste. Remove all the pulps from the peels and 
boil in water — a pint to a dozen pulps — to extract 
the acid. A few minutes boiling is enough, then 
strain the water with the juice of the lemons; put a 
pound of white sugar to a pint of the juice, boil 10 
minutes, bottle it, and your lemonade is ready. Put 
a teaspoon or two of this lemon syrup in a glass of 
water, and you have a cooling, healthful drink. 

PINE APPLE SYRUP. 

Pare and cut the pine apples in pieces and add a 
quart of water to 3 pounds. Boil till very soft. 
Mash and strain. To a pint of this juice add a pound 
of sugar. Boil to a rich syrup, and cork tightly. 

ORANGE SYRUP. 

Take fally ripe fruit, and thin skinned if you can 
get them. Squeeze juice through a sieve and add a 
pound of sugar to every pint. Boil slowly for ten 
minutes. Skim carefully. Bottle when cold. Two 
or three spoons of this in a glass of ice water in sum- 
mer is refreshing. It may also be used with melted 
butter for pudding sauce. 

CURRANT WINE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 
Mash and strain the currants, which should be very 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 261 

ripe. 1 quart of juice, 1 pound sugar, ^ pint water. 
Put in a cask or jar and cover with mosquito-net and 
let it ferment four or five weeks. Then drain off 
and bottle close. 

KHUBAKB WINE. 

Mrs. E. B. B. 

Peel and slice as for pies. Put a small quantity 
of water with it and boil gently. Strain and add an 
equal quantity of water. To each gallon of this add 
5 pounds sugar and ferment like currant wine. 

BLACKBEERY WINE. 

The following is said to be an excellent recipe for 
the- manufacture of a superior wine from blackberries: 
Measure your berries and bruise them. To every 
gallon add 1 quart of boiling water. Let the mixture 
stand twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally, then 
strain off the liquor into a cask ; to every gallon add 
2 pounds of sugar; cork tight and let stand till the 
following October. 

ELDERBERRY WINE. 

1 quart of juice, 1 quart water, 1^ pounds brown 
sugar. Mix and put in jug or keg. Keep full to 
the top by filling morning and evening with some of 



262 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

the mixture reserved for that purpose, until the pulp 
of the berry has worked oiF, which takes about a 
week in a moderately warm place. It will then com- 
mence to froth. In a week cork tight and put in a 
30ol place. Bottle in February. 

GINGER WINE. 

10 gallons water, 15 pounds loaf sugar, whites of 
6 eggs well beaten and strained; mix all together, 
then boil and skim. Put in ^ pound of ginger,' boil 
twenty minutes. When cool, put in the juice and 
rind of four or five lemons, also 2 tablespoons of 
good yeast, stir well together, bottle and cork tight. 

CEEAM NECTAR. 

3 pounds of white sugar, 2 ounces of tartaric acid 
put into a quart of soft water over night. Then stir 
in the well-beaten whites of 3 eggs. Use any flavor- 
ing desired. Bottle and keep in a cool place. Three 
tablespoons of it to one glass ice water. Soda enough 
to make it effervesce. After one trial you can deter- 
mine the amount of soda. The soda should be put 
into the water first. 



AXD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 263 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

To prevent jams, preserves, etc., from graining, a 
teaspoon of cream of tartar must be added to every 
gallon. 

To preserve fruit jellies from mould, cover tlie sur- 
face one-fourth of an inch deep with fine sugar. 

Earthem milk crocks unglazed are best adapted 
for stewing apple-sauce, boiling jelly, rice, and many 
other things, as tin or iron injures the delicate flavor 
and color of fruits, and porcelain kettles are expen- 
sive and scorch easily. I have used these earthen 
crocks for years with but one accident. Let water 
gradually heat several times in them on the back of 
the stove when new, and you will prefer them to 
anything else for cooking certain things. 

JAM. 

£ pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, either staw- 
berry, blackberry or raspberry. Mash well, and boil 
half an hour. Seal up. 



264 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

FRUIT. 

When canning in glass jars, either put a silver 
spoon in the jar while pouring in the hot fruit, or 
set the can on a wet towel. Either way will insure 
it against breakage. 

When the top of a glass jar refuses to yield to all 
efforts at unscrewing, hold a hot cloth around it, and 
it will soon succumb. 

TO OAK STRAWBEREIES, RASPBERRIES, 

BLACKBERRIES, PLUMS, CHERRIES, 

OR ANY SMALL FRUIT. 

Mrs. F. McKercher. 

Look over carefully, and fill your cans, as many as 
will stand in your wash boiler. Put sugar enough in 
each can to sweeten for the table. Pack the jars full, 
and screw the covers on, but do not put on the rubber 
bands. Put cold water in the boiler, nearly to the 
top of the jars. It is safer to stand them on some- 
thing in the boiler. Pieces of berry boxes answer 
every purpose. Let the water boil twenty minutes. 
Then remove a couple of the jars. Take off the cov- 
ers. The fruit will have settled down some. Fill 
one up from the other. Put on the rubber band and 
seal up. Then take another from the boiler and fill it 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 265 

up from the same jar. If you fill thirteen to start 
with, it will take about three of them to fill up the 
other ten that have settled. After canned fruit stands 
all night, it is safer to use a little wrench to give an 
extra turn to the cover before putting away for good. 
(I should include peaches in this list. Ed.) 

LEMON BUTTER 

Mrs. J. W. Smith. 

2 pints of white sugar, 1^ pints of water, 3 eggs 
well beaten, lump of butter size of a hickory-nut, 2 
tablespoons of corn-starch, juice of 2 lemons, rind of 
1. Cook in a dish set over boiling water. Stir often 
to keep it smooth. Use as sauce, filling for tarts, or 
as jelly for layer cake. 

APPLE PRESERVE. 
Peel, halve and core 6 large apples, selecting those 
of the same size; make a syrup of 1 pound of gran- 
ulated sugar and a pint of water; when it boils, drop 
'in the apples with the . rind and juice of a lemon. 
As soon as they are tender, care must be taken that 
they do not fall in pieces, take the halves out one by 
one, and arrange, concave side uppermost, in a glass 
dish. Drop a bit of currant jelly into each piece; 
boil down the syrup, and when cool, pour around the 
apples. This makes a very nice preserve for tea. 



266 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

APPLE BUTTEE. 

Take 9 gallons of cider, boil down to 3 gallons; 
then add to the boiling cider abont 3 gallons of 
apples that have been pared and quartered; boil 
rapidlj for about two hours without ceasing, to pre- 
vent the apples from sinking. By this time they are 
well reduced, and will begin to sink; thus far, no 
stirring has been done, but must be commenced as 
soon as the apples begin to sink, or they will scorch. 
Spice to suit taste. Stir without ceasing until it is 
reduced to a thick smooth pulp, which will take 
about half an hour. Aj^ple butter made in this way 
has been kept perfectly good over two years, without 
sealing, and is as good, if not a better article than 
that made in the usual way. 

COOKING APPLES. 

Owaissa. 

Here is a nice recipe for cooking apples for present 
use. I tried it, and like it very much: Take about 
20 nice snow or other good cooking apples, wipe 
them clean, and place them in a preserving-kettle, 
with water enough to about half cover them; then 
add 2 cups of sugar, ^ a cup of vinegar, and a 
dessertspoon of ground cinnamon. Let them sim- 
mer over a slow fire until soft. Use them cold. 
"While cooking, keep the kettle covered tightly. 



AlO) USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 267 

APPLE JELLY. 

Take tart apples and cut tliem up; put to them a 
little water, and let them boil until it becomes glu- 
tinous and reduced; then strain it; put ^ pound of 
white sugar to each pint of juice; flavor with lemon 
essence and boil until it is a fine, clear jelly; then 
strain it into moulds. 

MICHIGAN" FKUIT JELLIES, AND ALSO 
APPLE BUTTER. 

SUCH AS AEE SOLD IN STOKES. 

For jellies, take 6 pounds of dried apples, and 6 
gallons of cold water, and let them soak twelve hours ; 
then strain through a flannel bag; add to each pint 
of the juice 1 pound of the gluco or grape sugar, 
and 1 ounce of Cooper's sheet gelatine; boil twenty- 
five minutes, and flavor to taste. 

For apple butter, take 4 pounds of dried apples, 
2 pounds of dried pumpkin; soak them twelve hours, 
then add 1 gallon of gluco, 1 quart of boiled cider, 
1 quart of golden syrup, 6 pounds of l^ew Orleans 
sugar, a ^ pound of Cooper's gelatine, a little mixed 
spice to suit the taste ; boil gently for 1 hour, stirring 
all the time. 

COMPOTE OF APPLES— BAKED. 

Take a wide jar with a cover; put into it golden 
pippins, or any small apples of similar appearance, 



268 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

pared and cored. Cnt very thin a small fresh rind 
of lemon for 2 quarts of apples and strew among 
them, and -| pound of sugar thrown over the top. 
Tie the cover on and set in a slow oven for several 
hours. Serve hot or cold. 

JELLIED APPLES 

Slice fresh apples and put in pudding dish with 
alternate layers of sugar. Cover with a plate and 
put a weight on it. Bake in a slow oven 3 hours. A 
delicious dessert of slices of apples embedded in jelly 
will be the result when turned out cold. Better 
cooked the day before it is wanted. 

BAKED SWEET APPLES, 

TO EAT IN MILK. 

Quarter and core without paring; fill a dish round- 
ing full, with no water. Set in a kettle of water or 
steamer, and steam till nearly soft, then in the oven, 
with a plate over them. Let them bake till the juice 
is nearly cooked out. Much nicer than cooked with 
the cores in. 

BOILED APPLES. 

Place fair smooth apples in a saucepan with just 
enough water to cook them, and boil until tender, 
but not to break them. Put in sufficient sugar to 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 269 

sweeten well and let cook until apples are thoroughly 
penetrated. Skim apples out, cook sjrup longer and 
pour over. 

APPLE CEOUTES. 

Juliet Corson. 

Take slices of stale bread. Trim off the crusts 
and shape them prettily to suit the size of the apple. 
Sj)read with a little butter, and a sprinkling of sugar. 
On each slice lay half an apple peeled and cored, flat 
side down, a bit of butter, more sugar on the apples, 
spice, if liked. Bake in a slow oven and dust with 
powdered sugar before serving. 

APPLE MEKINGUE. 

Juliet Corson. 

Peel some nice smooth apples, cut in halves, lay 
them on a dish that is suitable to serve on the table. 
Dust with sugar. Cook in oven until tender. Take 
the whites of eggs, one for each apple, beat to a stiff 
froth; add a heaping tablespoon of powdered sugar 
for each one. Put over them when done, and brown 
in the oven. 

PKIED APPLES. 
Juliet Corson. 

Remove the cores with an apple-corer. Cut the 
slices round, one-quarter of an inch thick. Put half 



270 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

a cup of drippings or butter in a frying-pan. WTien 
smoking Lot, put in slices enough to cover the bot- 
tom of the pan. Frj brown on both sides. Do not 
let them break. As fast as done, take them up in 
little even piles, four or live together. Keep hot, and 
dust a little sugar over and serve. 

CRAB APPLE PEESERYES. 

Core the crab apples with a sharp pen-knife, leaving 
the stems on. Allow pound for pound of sugar. 
Put in just water enough to help dissolve the sugar. 
Let it boil up and skim. Put in the apples and boil 
till they look clear and tender. Skim out. Boil the 
syrup down and pour over the fruit. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERYES. 

Put the berries and sugar, pound for pound, into a 
preserving kettle, and heat slowly till the sugar is 
melted. Then boil rapidly for 20 minutes, and seal 
up hot. 

GRAPE PRESERYES. 

Press the pulp from the fruit. Put the pulp over 
to boil in a little water. Then press through a col- 
ander to remove the seeds. Then put juice, pulp 
and skins together ; add a pound of sugar to a pint, 
and boil down thick. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 271 

GEAPE JELLY. 

Grapes green or half ripe, are much nicer for jelly, 
than when fully ripe. Stem them, cook them. Strain 
the water, and allow half or three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar to each pint of juice. 

CITEON PEESEEYES. 

Pare, slice, and cut in fancy shapes. Take some 
ginger-root, an ounce to 8 or 10 pounds of fruit ; hoil 
in sufficient water to extract the flavor. Throw the 
root away. Put the sugar into this water and make 
a rich syrup. For citron preserves, allow one pound 
and a quarter of sugar for each pound of citron. 
Skim very thoroughly. Put in the citron, and boil 
until transparent. Skim out. If the juice is not 
thick enough, cook still longer. Pour over, and then 
slice in some lemons. One lemon to every two 
pounds of citron is about right. 

PEESEEYED WATEEMELON EIISTDS. 

Peel and cut the rinds into the sizes and shaj)es 
desired. Put in a steamer and steam till a straw will 
pierce them easily. Prepare a syrup of one and one- 
fourth pounds of sugar to each pound of rinds, with 
a very little water. Boil up and skim. Cook the 
rinds in the syrup until clear. Use one lemon to 
every two pounds of rinds. 



272 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

QUINCE PEESERVES. 

Take an equal quantity of smootli sweet apples, 
pound sweets are best, and put with tlie quinces. 
Even double the quantity may be used. Pare and 
quarter and core them. Steam in a steamer until a 
straw will pierce them readily. Make a syrup of an 
equal weight of sugar. Put in the steamed fruit and 
boil until of a rich red color. Skim frequently. Lay 
them out on flat dishes. Boil the syrup down until 
it begins to jelly at the side of the kettle. The 
syrup is nicer if strained through a sieve. Pour it 
over the quinces. Use the parings and cores for jelly. 
Boil till very tender, and proceed as in other jellies. 

APPLE MARMALADE. 

12 pounds of apples, 3 pounds of brown sugar, 3 
lemons. Boil slowly. Mash well. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

To a pound of fruit put ^ of a pound of sugar. 
Boil the pits in water until the water is well flavored. 
Peel and quarter the peaches and add to the water 
after the pits are removed. In half an hour add the 
sugar. Stir constantly. Boil an hour after the sugar 
is added. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEUOLl HINTS. 273 

QUINCE MARMALADE 

Pare and core the quinces, and cut up small. Boil 
tlie parings and cores in water that covers them. 
When soft, strain through a cloth. Add the quinces 
and sugar (^ a pound to each pound of fruit). Boil 
all together over a clear fire until smooth and thick. 
Stir and watch almost constantly. When cold, put 
in glass jars. 

PLUM BUTTER. 

1 peck of plums, -J bushel of sweet apples. Cook 
in separate kettles until quite soft, with just enough 
water to prevent sticking to the bottom. When soft, 
put through a colander into the same kettle, and to 
each pound add £ pound of white sugar. Let cook 
a short time. Seal up. 

WILD PLUM PRESERYES. 

In order to make the skins tender and prevent that 
jtrong, rank taste, scald in saleratus water, allowing 
a tablespoon to 4 or 5 gallons of plums. As soon as 
the skins commence to break, pour off the water, and 
drain the fruit. Then take out the pits, and weigh, 
allowing pound for pound of sugar. Put the sugar 
over, with a little water. Let boil up and skim. Put 
in the plums, cook till tender, skim out, boil the 
syrup down till it is of the consistence of molasses, 
and pour over. They require no sealing. 
18 



274 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

[I lived once upon a time in a country where the 
scarcity of fruit kept us all on the alert for the best 
modes of utilizing the little we did have. "We made 
delicious plum jelly and marmalade as follows:] 

WILD PLUM JELLY. 

Cover the fruit with water and boil until the pulp 
is well broken. Then strain through a cloth or jelly 
bag without squeezing. Proceed with the juice, as 
with other jellies. It is not necessary to use pound 
for pound of sugar. Less will answer every purpose. 

WILD PLUM MAEMALADE. 

Take the plums that remain in the jelly bag and 
rub through a sieve. To this, take a pound of sugar 
to each pint, and cook thoroughly. Watch and stir 
almost constantly. Try it in a dish, and when it will 
harden like jelly, it is done. 

PKESEKYED ORANGE PEEL. 

Weigh oranges whole, and allow pound for pound 
of sugar. Peel the oranges neatly and cut the rind 
into narrow shreds. Boil until tender, changing the 
water twice, and replenishing with hot from the 
kettle. Squeeze the strained juice of the oranges over 



.ii 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 275 

the sugar; let this heat to a boil; put in the shreds 
and boil twenty minutes. Lemon peel can be pre- 
served in the same way, allowing more sugar. (Yery 
nice.) 

PKESERYED CHERRIES. 

Stone the cherries, preserving every drop of juice. 
Weigh the fruit, allowing pound for pound of sugar. 
Put a layer of fruit for one of sugar until all is used 
up; pour over the juice and boil gently until the 
syrup begins to thicken. The short stem red cherries 
or the Morellas are best for preserves. Sweet cherries 
are not good. 

CRANBERRY PRESERYES. 
Author's Recipe. 

Weigh the berries, and an equal amount of sugar. 
Put over to cook together, with just water enough 
to dissolve the sugar. Boil till the fruit is well 
cooked. This will be found a very delicious preserve. 

PEAR PRESERYES. 

Preserve as directed for quinces. Flavor with 
sliced lemon and ginger root. 

PEACH PRESERYES. 
Pare, and remove pits. Boil the pits in water to 



276 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

extract the flavor. Add the sugar to this water, 
after the pits are taken out. Boil up, skim. Wlien 
clear, put in the peaches, a few at a time, and cook 
gently till they are done, not over 15 minutes. "Wlieu 
all are cooked, boil the syrup till thicker than mo- 
lasses. Pour over. Seal up. 

DAMSON PLUM PKESERYES. 

Weigh the fruit and sugar pound for pound, and 
pnt in layers in a stone crock. Set in the oven, 
moderately heated, and cook for three hours. The 
result is a very rich flavor and the fruit but little 
broken. 

PLUM OR EGG-TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Make same as above, except using 3 lbs. sugar to 4 
of tomatoes. Add two sliced lemons to each gallon. 

When lemons are used in preserves, always add 
them after the fruit is cold. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Wash and quarter the apples and cover with water. 
Stew until well broken. Pour into a jelly bag, drain 
without squeezing. Allow 5 lb. sugar to i pint juice. 
Boil the juice alone for ten or fifteen minutes. Heat 
the sugar, meanwhile, and add slowly, stirring con- 
stantly. Sometimes it will "jelly" by the time the 
sugar is all dissolved. It will require but very little 
boiling, if any. Stick cinnamon boiled with the juice 
improves the flavor. Remove it before adding sugar. 

The pulp of the apples is good for marmalade, as 
in wild plums. 



AliTD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 277 

CURKANT JELLY. 
Arte. 

Put stems and currants into a jar. Set into hot 
water, cover, and boil 15 minutes. Now press out 
the juice, put into a preserve kettle, boil 10 minutes, 
put in the same quantity of sugar you have of juice, 
and 5 minutes finishes it. 

[If the sugar is heated through and through in the 
oven, it is simply necessary to add it and mix well, 
and the jelly is done. Ed.] 

CUERANT JELLY. 



After straining and squeezing the currants, usual 
way, I measure the juice, and to every pint I put a 
pound of sugar, in a crock large enough to hold all 
when I am ready. Then place juice on stove, and 
let boil hard twenty minutes. Then throw it over 
the sugar in the crock, and stir until sugar is dis- 
solved. Your jelly is made. You can leave in same 
dish, or put in tumblers. I keep mine in crock. To 
make white-currant jelly and not change color, use 
pure white cloth to strain, and have hands free from 
any soil; place juice in a crock and stir two hours 
and a half constantly; then put in granulated sugar, 
and stir half an hour; don't mash your currants, but 



278 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

stem tliem. Seal in glass tumblers, and in a couple 
of months your jelly will be bard, and clear as water. 
My red currant jelly is as tliick as can be now. I 
know any one trying this will be delighted with the 
result. 

GELATINE JELLY. 

Mrs. M. A. 8. 

To a package of gelatine add a pint of cold water, 
the juice of 3 lemons and rind of one. Let stand an 
hour, then add 3 pints of boiling hot water, 3 gills 
of wine, 2 pounds white sugar. Boil 15 minutes 
and turn into moulds. 

DKIED APPLE JELLY. 
Mrs. M. A. 8. 

2 quarts dried apples put in a pan with water 
to cover. Boil 2 or 3 hours. Strain the juice and 
to every pint add f of a pound of sugar and the juice of 
2 lemons. 

APPLE JELLY. 

FOB LAYEE OAKB. 

2 large apples grated, juice and grated rind of 1 
lemon, 1 cup sugar. Boil about 5 minutes, cool, 
then spread. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 279 

CANNED PUMPKIN. 

Cut the pumpkin, remove the inside, leave the 
peel on and bake until done. It will peel out of the 
shell easily. Then mash it and can hot and seal up 
the same as fruit. It cannot be told from fresh. 

TO KEEP GKAPES FRESH FOR WINTER. 

Pick off full clusters, removing every bruised one. 
Dip the end of the stem in sealing wax, then wrap 
each bunch in tissue paper and pack in boxes in 
layers, with paper between. Close up the box and 
keep in a cool, dry room and you are sure of success. 

DRIED APPLE SAUCK 
Mrs. Dr. Evans. 

2 pounds dried apples, 1 pound raisins. Put in a 
crock with plenty of water and set on the back of the 
stove. Let boil slowly. all day When almost done 
add 1 lemon sliced very thin and 2 pounds of sugar. 
(A good breakfast sauce.) 

CRANBERRIES. 

A pint of water to a quart. Boil till soft, put 
through a coarse sieve or colander, return to the ket- 



280 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

tie, put in a pint of sugar, boil up and take off. Les? 
sugar may be used if desired very tart. 

[Note. — If boiling water is poured over cranberries 
and allowed to stay till nearly cool and then poured 
off, they will require considerably less sugar.] 



PICKLES. 

Do not use metal vessels. If vinegar lias to be 
boiled use a porcelain kettle or a stone crock. For a 
few years past I have pickled and spiced a good share 
of my cucumbers when first procured, and sealed 
them up hot in glass jars for winter use, the same as 
fruit. Glass cans are cheap and it has proved econ- 
omy in my case, for the reason that I suffered severely 
at the hands of the vinegar seller. One year we paid 
fifty cents per gallon for "pure cider vinegar," and 
one lot of pickles I had to "do up" three different 
times to keep them from spoiling. But sealed up 
hot they are always ready, just the right flavor, and 
no further source of anxiety. This need not apply 
to those who are sure of the Simon pure article of 
vinegar, although it is the least work in the long 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 281 

run. The following recipes have been procured from 
different ladies who excelled in pickling: 

CUCUMBEK PICKLES. 
Mrs. Hodge. 

When you are ready to lay them down for winter, 
pour boiling water over them and drain well. Then 
pack in salt. When wanted for pickling, place in a 
jar as many as you want to freshen and cover with 
boiling water. When cool drain off and pour over 
another kettle boiling hot. Let this cool and drain 
off and pour on one kettle more. Then when cool 
and drained heat vinegar to a scalding point, flavor 
with red pepper, cloves, or anything preferred and 
pour over. 

[This is the easiest way we have ever found to 
pickle cucumbers that are in brine. It does away 
with the trouble of having them around a day or 
two freshening. Ed.J 

CUCUMBEE PICKLES. 
Mrs. Bass. 

Get small ones of uniform size. Place in a stone 
crock. Pour on boiling water to cover. Put in a 
large handful of salt. Let stand over night. Drain 



282 MRS. o wens' cook book 

off in tlie morning. Pour on more boiling water 
and same quantity of salt. Let stand till the next 
morning. Drain off the water, wash the pickles in 
clear water, dry with a towel. Put in a crock and 
pour on boiling cider vinegar. Then put in small 
horse-radish roots. These pickles will keep in a 
common stone crock all winter. 

CUCUMBEE PICKLES. 

Mrs. Witlierel, Hudson, Mich. 

1 gallon water, 1 teacup salt, alum size of a wal- 
nut. Put on boiling hot, having skimmed, three 
mornings in succession. Drain off and soak in clear 
cold water half a day. Put on vinegar cold, with 
pieces of horse-radish to prevent mould. 

STEING BEANS. 

Author's Recipe. 

Boil in water a little salt till just a trifle tender. 
Drain very carefully. Put into glass cans, and after 
filling them stand them upside down to be sure and 
get out all the water. Then cover with hot vinegar 
flavored as you please. Seal up hot, and you will 
have one of the most palatable pickles you ever ate in 
midwinter. They may be steamed instead of boiled. 
It is not strictly necessary to salt them. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 283 

PICKLED WALNUTS. 

Mrs. E. F. S. 

Take white walnuts fresli and tender; put them in 
salt and water for three days, then put in the sun till 
they turn black. Take ^ pound of mustard seed, 2 
ounces of pepper, -^ ounce of cloves, ^ ounce of mace, 
■| ounce of nutmeg, and a good stalk of horse-radish, 
boiled in 1 gallon of vinegar. Cover the walnuts 
closely and let them remain three or four weeks. 
Pour off the liquid for catsup if desired, and bottle it, 
covering the walnuts again with cold vinegar. 

PICKLED CHEKRIES. 

Fill a glass jar two-thirds full of large ripe cherries 
on the stems. Fill up with best cold vinegar. Do 
not cook. 

SILVER SKIN ONIONS. 

Pour scalding brine (weak) on them every day for 
nine days — new brine every other day; then throw 
them in cold spiced vinegar, and they will be ready 
to eat in a few days, and good, too. 

NASTURTIONS. 



They require no seasoning. Gather before they 
fall apart; pick clean of all bits of flowers, leaving 



284 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

about ahalf-incli of stem; drop them into some good 
cider vinegar, not over strong, and keep them well 
covered. Do not take too much vinegar to begin 
with, as more can be added if required. When frost 
comes so that you will have no more seeds to put in, 
pour off the vinegar and use it on the table. You 
will find it much better than pepper-sauce. Put the 
pickles into a bottle or glass jar just large enough to 
hold them, and fill up with good vinegar. You will 
now save the fresh picked ones in the bottom, and 
the top ones will be ready for use, but if kept covered 
they will keep until eaten, I presume, though I never 
had an opportunity to test their keeping qualities, 
over eight or nine months. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

Cook the cauliflower till tender, then put it in jars 
and pour over it vinegar and ground mustard-seed, pre- 
viously scalded together. 

PICKLED RED CABBAGE. 

Slice fine; pack in jar; pour over boiling spiced vin- 
egar; use tablespoon brown sugar to one head; when 
cold tie down; fit for use in about ten days. 

PICKLED TOMATOES. 
Sliced green, they make splendid pickles if a pint 
of molasses is poured over 2 gallons; press down with 
plate and remove white scum as it appears; brown 
sugar is preferred by some. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 285 

GKEEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. Judge Sherman. 

1 peck green tomatoes sliced thin. Sprinkle with 
salt and let stand over night. Slice 12 onions, put 
with the tomatoes in layers with the following spices: 
4 ounces white mustard seed, 4 ounces ground mus- 
tard, 1 ounce each of cloves, allspice, ginger, pepper 
and cinnamon, -| ounce turmeric, 1 tablespoon salt, -^ 
pound brown sugar. Boil in vinegar to cover for two 
hours. 

JACKSON PICKLES. 

Grandma Owens. 
Take firm, smooth, green tomatoes, slice and sprinkle 
with salt over night. In the morning pour clean 
water over and drain immediately. Be very particu- 
lar about getting the water all out so as not to weaken 
the vinegar. Then pack in jars in layers with white 
mustard seed, plenty of horse-radish cut up fine, 
small bits of green pepper, allowing about 6 to each 
peck of tomatoes. Cover with cold vinegar. Tie 
cloth over. (Splendid.) 

[I have never lost any pickles made in this way, 

and have put them up every year for a long time. 

Ed.] 

HIGDOM. 

Hattie A. H., Clinton, Iowa. 
1 bushel green tomatoes, chopped fine and packed 



286 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

in jars witli salt. Let stand twentj-four hours, then 
drain well, then add 1 dozen green peppers, 2 large 
heads of cabbage, chopped fine ; then scald in vinegar, 
then drain again; add 3 large spoons of black pepper 
(ground), 4 of cinnamon, 3 of allspice, 7 of cloves, 1 
teacup of unground mustard ; mix well with tomatoes 
and put in jars. Take 5 pounds brown sugar and 
mix with vinegar enough to cover; scald the sugar 
and vinegar and pour over while hot. 

PICCALILLI. 

Mrs. L, S. H. 

1 bushel green tomatoes, -^ peck green peppers, 12 
onions, all chopped fine, 1 teacup grated horse-radish, 
1 teacup ground mustard seed, ^ ounce whole cloves, 
■^ ounce ground cinnamon. Cabbage and celery added 
to suit. Sprinkle the chopped articles with salt and 
let them stand over night. Drain. Add vinegar 
enough to moisten, and scald until tender. Drain 
again. Add the spices, mix, pack in jars and cover 
with scalding vinegar. 

MANGOES 

Take young, tender, green musk-melons or nut- 
megs ; soak them in strong brine for a week. Then 
scrape them, cut out a section an inch square, take 



ANT> USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 287 

out the seeds. Soak another day, then wash in clean 
water and wipe diy with a cloth. Then fill the cav- 
ity with finely-chopped cabbage, horse-radish, onion, 
green tomatoes, cucumbers, radish pods, nasturtion 
seeds, celery seed, young, tender string beans, cauli- 
flower buds, peppers, mustard and whole cloves, with 
some stick cinnamon. Before putting in, wet this 
mixture with vinegar. Keplace the cut piece, tie up 
well, pack in crocks, fill with cold vinegar, and in 
about a month they will be ready for use. 

CHOW CHOW. 

BETTER THAN THE IMPOKTED. 

Mrs. Nellie Roe. 

1 large cauliflower, 1 quart green cucumbers sliced 
lengthwise, or watermelon rind will do. 3 dozen 
small cucumbers, 2 dozen small onions. Soak cu- 
cumbers in brine fu. two or three days, scald the rest 
in strong salt and water. Add pepper and whole 
cloves, allspice and stick cinnamon as you choose. 
Scald the following, stirring constantly, and when 
well mixed pour over your pickles : 2^ quarts vine- 
gar, 2^ cups brown sugar, ^ cup flour, 6 tablespoons 
ground mustard. Bottle in wide-mouthed bottles or 
glass cans. Seal. (A most delicious pickle.) 



288 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Mrs. M. A. 8. 

300 small cucumbers, 4 large green peppers sliced 
fine, 2 large heads cauliflower, 3 heads white cabbage 
shredded fine, 9 large onions, sliced, or 2 quarts small 
ones, 1 quart or more small string beans cut in inch 
pieces, 1 quart small, green tomatoes, sliced. Put 
this all in a pretty strong brine 24 hours. Drain 
3 hours, then sprinkle in ^ pound black and ^ pound 
white mustard seed, 1 tablespoon black ground pepper. 
Let the whole come to a boil in just enough vinegar 
to cover, with a little alum put in. Drain, and when 
cold mix a pint of ground mustard as for table use 
and put in. Cover the whole with good cider vinegar. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLE. 

Mrs. R. R. Austin, Vermilion, Dakota. 
15 pounds sliced green tomatoes; let stand over- 
night, with a little salt sprinkled over; drain. 5 
pounds sugar, 1 quart best vinegar, 1 ounce cloves, 
2 ounces cinnamon. Boil 15 or 20 minutes, skim 
out and boil the syrup till thicker, if preferred, but 
it is not necessary. [The best I ever tasted. Ed.] 

SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES. 
Mrs. L. S. H. 
Take ripe cucumbers, cut them lengthwise, take 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 289 

out seeds, soak in salt and water 24 hours. Then 
soak in vinegar and water 24 hours. Drain. Then 
make a syrup of 1 quart of vinegar, 1 pound sugar, 
cinnamon and cloves. Boil till tender. 

SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Mrs. M. A. S. 

Take ripe cucumbers. Peel and cut as above. 
Steam till tender. 1 gallon vinegar, 2 pounds sugar, 
1 red pepper, 1 ounce cassia buds. Scald all together 
and pour hot over the pickles in a jar. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pare and cut in strips. Remove the seeds. Put 
in weak brine for 12 hours; pour off and scald in 
alum water till clear. Wash in cold water and drain 
well. 3^ pounds sugar, 1 gallon vinegar, some stick 
cinnamon, nutmeg and mace. Boil the cucumbers 
in this tin a straw will pierce them. Put in glass 
jars. 

WATERMELON RINDS. 

Mrs. T. A. P. 

Pare and cut in fancy shapes. Take weak alum 
water and pour it over hot. Let it stand 24 hours. 
Then soak till well cleansed, and boil in clear water 
19 



290 MRS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

till tender. Make a syriip of equal measures of vine- 
gar and sugar, some stick cinnamon and race ginger. 
Boil the rinds in tliis till clear. Put in a jar, cover, 
seal and put away. 

PICKLED PLUMS, GRAPES OR PEACHES. 

7 pounds fruit, 4 pounds sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 
mace, cinnamon, cloves. Boil the fruit in this S}Tup 
till it is tender. Skim out and boil syrup thick. 
Pour over. It is better to seal up. Then it is sure 
to keep. 

SWEET CRAB APPLES. 

Put half a bushel of crab apples in a kettle with 
vinegar enough to cover them, and cook until tender; 
then take out and put in jars. Measure the vinegar 
and add a pint more than will cover the fruit, and to 
each pint add 1^ pints brown sugar, 2 sticks of cin- 
namon, 3 tablespoons cloves, 2 tablespoons mace. 
Tie spices in a bag and boil half an hour in the syrup. 
Then pour over the fruit. 

WHOLE PEARS PICKLED. 

Take 3 pounds pears; peel and cut out the ends, 
leaving stems in; put into a preserving kettle with 
X quart of water, and boil until they are easily pierced 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 291 

by a fork. Then lay out on a dish. Add to the juice 
1-J pounds sugar, 1 pint vinegar, some stick cinna- 
mon, whole cloves and race ginger. Boil all five 
minutes and skim. Put pears in and boil until the 
syrup thickens. Take out, put in jars, boil syrup 
five minutes longer, pour over. 



VINEGAR. 

HONEY YmEGAE. 

To 1 quart of clear honey, put 8 quarts of warm 

water; mix it well together; when it has passed 
through the ascetous fermentation, a white vinegar 
will be formed, in many respects better than the 
ordinary vinegar. 

CLOVER BLOOM VINEGAR. 

This vinegar does not die on pickles: To ^ bushel 
of the bloom (pick the bloom clean of leaves) in a 
tub, put 6 pounds of brown sugar, pour on that 4 



/ 



292 MRS. OWENS COOK BOOK 

water over all. "WTien cool, add 3 pints of hop yeast; 
laj a folded sheet over the tub to make tight, and let 
it stand 14 days. Strain and rack off in a keg. You 
will have a better vinegar than you can buy. Keep 
in a shady place while making. 

APPLE VINEGAR. 
Save all parings and cores of apples when used for 
cooking purposes; put them in a jar; cover with 
cold water; add about a pint molasses to 3 or 4 gal- 
lons; tie mosquito netting over jar; add more apple 
parings as you have them, and all the cold tea left 
in teapot. Makes the very best vinegar. 

POTATO VINEGAR. 

2 gallons of water that a quantity of potatoes have 
been boiled in, 1 pound of brown sugar, a cup of 
hop yeast. In 3 or 4 weeks you will have most 
excellent vinegar. Cucumbers cut fresh from the 
vines without salt, will keep in this vinegar. 

CL'RRANT VINEGAR. 

1 quart of currant juice strained as for jelly, 3 
quarts of rain water, 1 pound of sugar. Keep warm. 



AlTD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 298 



CONFECTIONERY. 

MOLASSES CAISTDY 
Mra. M. A. 8. 

1 pint of molasses, 1 cup of sugar. Boil and stir 
every minute. "WTien partly cooked, put in butter 
the size of a walnut. "When it will break like glass, 
in cold water, it is done. Put in -^ a teaspoon of 
cream of tartar with the butter, and just before you 
turn it out, put in a spoon even full of soda. 

MOLASSES CAISTDY. 

Heat a kettle hot and butter it, then pour in a 
quart of molasses and a cup of sugar. Boil steadily 
for 20 minutes, stirring to prevent burning and boil- 
ing over. Try it by dropping a little in cold water; 
if it hardens immediately it is done, otherwise it 
must be boiled longer. Stir in a teaspoon of pul- 
verized soda before turning out. Walnut, hickory- 
nut, or hazel-nut meats may be added to this candy, 
and a little of it saved to make pop-corn balls. Use 



294 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

just as little candj as possible in these balls, and let 
none of it get on the outside, where thej should look 
perfectly white. 

MAPLE CARAMELS. 
Mrs. A. S. J. 

1 pound of maple sugar. Melt in a teacup of 
sweet milk and a tablespoon of butter. Cook till 
almost brittle in cold water. Turn on to a buttered 
plate. Mark in squares, when cool enough. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

7 tablespoons of chocolate, 3 tablespoons of milk, 
6 tablespoons of sugar, 3 tablespoons of butter, 6 
tablespoons of molasses. Boil till it hardens by 
dropping on a plate. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

All that is needed is 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 
cup of molasses, ^ cup of sugar, -^ cup of grated 
chocolate, a piece of butter the size of a walnut; stir 
continually, and let it boil until it is thick, then turn 
it out into buttered plates ; when it begins to stiffen 
mark it in squares, so that it will break readily when 
cold. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 295 

COCOANUT CAEAMELS 

Are made of 2 cups of grated cocoanut, 1 cup of 
sugar, 2 tablespoons of flour, the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten stiff. Bake on a buttered paper in a quick 
oven. 

SNOW CANDY. 

Nice white candy is easily made. Take 1 quart of 
granulated sugar, 1 pint of water, 2 tablespoons of 
vinegar; boil jnst as you do molasses candy, but do 
not stir it; you can tell when it is done by trying it 
in cold water. Pull it as if it were molasses candy; 
have a dish near by with some vanilla in it, and work 
in enough to fltTor it as you pull; put it in a cold 
room, and the nt it day you will have delicious candy. 

CEEAM CANDY. 
Frankie~ Denver, Col. 

2 cups of white su^ar, vinegar enough to dissolve 
it. Boil until it will pull. 

BUTTEK SCOTCH. 

4 cups of brown sugar, 2 cups of butter, 2 table- 
spoons of water, vinegar to taste. A little soda. 
Boil ^ an hour. Drop a little in hot water. If crisp, 
it is done. 



296 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

ANOTHER. 

S cnps of sugar, 1^ cups of butter. Flavoring. 
Boil as above. 

MOCK NONGAT. 

Mrs. A. L. B. 

To 1 quart of good molasses, add 1 pound of brown 
sugar and 1 ounce of butter. Put it on the fire and 
stir now and then to prevent scorching. After it has 
boiled 1 hour, stir in a teacup of walnut kernels, all 
particles of shell adhering having been carefully re- 
moved. Let it boil a short time longer, or until 
candied, which may be ascertained by dropping a 
little in cold water; if it does not discolor the water, 
and has a stringy appearance, it is done; continue to 
boil until this is the case. Grease a large dish, pour 
out the candy, and let it stand until cold, when it 
may be cut into squares or strips; or if preferred, 
the candy may be pulled as soon as cold enough to 
bear handling. (Yery nice.) 

FRUIT CANDY. 

A delicious fruit candy is made by adding chopped 
raisins and figs to a syrup made by stewing 2 pounds 
of sugar with the juice of two lemons, or, if lemons 
are not at hand, with a cup of vinegar flavored with 



AND USEFUL HOUSKIIOLD IIIKTS. 297 

essence of lemon. Dried cherries and any firm pre- 
serves may be used instead of raisins and figs. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CANDY. 

Puss. 

1 cup each of sugar, molasses and milk; piece of 

butter size of an egg, boil this about 25 minutes, but 
do not stir it only to keep it from burning; just 
before taking it up add a pinch of soda and two 
grated squares of chocolate (notice that a cake of 
chocolate is divided into squares) ; try in water, and 
when brittle, it is done; then turn into a buttered 
pan and wlien the candy is cool mark it off into 
squares. 

LEMON TAFFY. 
N. A. D. 

2 cups of white sugar, 1 cup of boiling water, 
^ cup of butter, ^ cup of vinegar. Flavor with 
lemon. When cooked sufficiently, pour it on buttered 
plates to cool. 

DELICIOUS TOMATO FIGS. 

Mrs. A. S. Johnston, Leavenworth, Kan. 

8 pounds of sugar to 8 pounds of tomatoes. Take 
round ripe ones; peel and boil whole in the sugar 



298 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

until it penetrates them, but do not boil to pieces. 
Til en lay on flat dishes to drj. Boil syrup until 
quite thick and pour over them from time to time. 
When dry, pack in boxes in layers, with sugar 
sprinkled over each layer. 

ICED CUKKANTS. 

Dip vrhole stems of currants into beaten whites of 
eggs. Sift white sugar over them. 

PEACH PAPER. 

Take very ripe peaches. Peel, stone and mash 
fine. Spread on a smooth surface, a platter, marble 
slab or board, and keep in the sun. When dry, 
sprinkle with white sugar and roll up. Good in 
winter. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM DROPS. 

I pint granulated sugar. | cup milk. 

I cup water. i teaspoon vanilla. 

I scant teaspoon butter. 3 squares chocolate. 

Boil the sugar, milk, water, and butter for 20 min- 
utes. Add the vanilla last. Remove from the stove 
and stir pretty constantly until cool enough to han- 
dle. Grate the chocolate and put in a dish over a 
kettle of hot water to melt. Form the candy into 
little balls the size of a thimble. When cold, roll 
them in the melted chocolate. Put on a greased 
plate or paper to harden. 



AlH) USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 209 

PIC-NICS. 

A few suggestions for pic-nic dishes, or lunches 
for a journey: Yeal loaf, boiled ham, pressed veal, 
pressed chicken, fried chicken, chicken salad, plain 
hard boiled eggs, sausages, sardines, stuffed eggs, 
Saratoga potatoes, radishes, pickled string-beans (the 
white wax-beans are nicest, and spice them a little). 
For the egg stuffing, boil the eggs hard, take out the 
yolk by cutting off a piece from one end. Chop 
some ham or veal very fine, season it high, mix with 
a little of the yolk made smooth, and fill the egg. 
Replace the cut white part and you have a very 
palatable lunch dish; or, boneless sardine, minced 
very fine, with the skin removed, is a good stuffing. 
Ham minced fine, and mixed with mustard and pep- 
per and chopped pickles, and spread on slices of bread 
makes a good sandwich. Potted meats that can be 
procured at the grocery stores are quite nice. Bot- 
tled pickles are rather in favor. Carry butter in a 
jelly glass or other covered dish. Take bread in a 
whole loaf instead of in slices. If slices are pre- 
ferred, wrap each two in tissue paper. Biscuit are 
always nice. Ginger cookies will be relished more 
than rich cake. If Saratoga jDotatoes are used, fry 
them only a few at a time, in boiling hot lard, and 
take them in fancy papers. Jelly and presei-ves in 
glasses. Cakes and pies to suit one's taste. Tea 
may be put into a bottle in cold water, and will make 
a good beverage. Portable lemonade is handy, but 
lemons should always be carried if they can be had. 



300 MRS. OWEXS' COOK BOOK 



THE LAUNDRY. 

I give here two different recipes for wasliing 
preparations, both of which I know to be just what 
thej are represented to be. The second one I have 
used for several years past. It does no better service 
than the fluid, which I also used for some time, but I 
like a soap rather better than a fluid. A prejudice 
exists in many housekeepers against boiling clothes 
in the dirt. But if you will throw your prejudice to 
the winds, and try this way for one month, you will 
never go back to the old way. The question is asked: 
Does it rot the clothes? Emphatically, it does not. 
It rather saves them. More clothes are worn out on 
the washboard than on the back. As my family in- 
creased in size, I adopted this method with the Patent 
Magic Washing Soap. I put them to soak over night 
in two tubs — the fine ones together and the coarse 
together — and sometimes, if I have a large bed wash- 
ing, put the sheets and pillow-cases in a third tub. 
I use the soap according to directions: a teacup to 
a pail of water. Cover all closely. In the morning 
I rub lightly on a board out of the water they are 
soaking in, and put on to boil. Kinse and hang out. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 301 

I do this, in order to have cleaner suds for my large 
washings of calico clothes. In doing this, you do 
not have to wait to heat water, and can easily get one 
boiler full done before breakfast. They look whiter, 
and wash so much easier than the old way, that it is 
a very great labor-saver. To make sure of having 
the water warm, you may turn a kettle of hot water 
over the clothes after they are well put to soak. 
Every one knows the whitening powers of lime and 
borax. I have done a washing in this way, and 
finished at noon, when it would have taken a washer- 
woman all day, the old way, if she had worked con- 
stantly and faithfully. 

A KECIPE WOKTH ONE THOUSAND 
DOLLAES. 

Take 1 pound of salsoda and ^ pound of unslaked 
lime, put them in a gallon of water, and boil twenty 
minutes; let it stand till cool, then drain off, and put 
it in a stone jar or jug. Soak your dirty clothes 
over night, or until they are well wet through, then 
wring them out and rub on plenty of soap, and to 
one boiler of clothes well covered with water, add ^ 
teacup of washing fluid. Boil half an hour briskly, 
then wash them thoroughly through one suds and 
rinse well with water, and your clothes will look 
better than the old way of washing twice before boil- 



302 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

iiig. Tliis is an invaluable recipe, and I do want 
every poor tired woman to try it. 

The second method is called 

PATENT WASHING SOAP. 

To 5 gallons water (if hard, cleanse it,) add 5 
pounds of common bar soap; cut up into small 
pieces and dissolve over a moderate fire, then add 12 
ounces of borax and 16 ounces of salsoda; stir fre- 
quently while dissolving, and when thoroughly in- 
corporated pour into a convenient vessel to cool; stir 
frequently while cooling, and it is done. Should you 
wish to use good, soft soap, from 10 to 15 pounds 
will be required, according to the thickness of the 
soap, with from 2^ to 3^ gallons of water; the 
thicker the soap the less, but more water ; the thinner 
the soap the more of it, but less water, with 12 
ounces each of borax and salsoda; in the case of soft 
soap, dissolve the borax and salsoda first in water 
and then add the soap. To use, heat as much soft 
water as will just cover the white clothing; a little 
more than blood warm. To each pailful of water 
add 1 teacup of the patent soap ; . dissolve well ; 
moisten the dirty streaks of your clothes, rub on a 
little soap, and spread them in your tub, push down 
under the water and spread a thick cloth over your 
tub to keep in the warmth as much as possible; in 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 303 

about five minutes catch the clothes by one edge, raise 
them up and down once or twice, then turn them 
over entirely; repeat the same operation two or three 
times; soak from 20 to 30 minutes, as you please; 
in the meantime have your boiling suds ready, by 
adding half a teacup of soap to each pail of water 
needed ; now wring your clothes moderately from the 
soaking water, overhaul them, rub some soap on the 
dirty streaks or places, if any remain; roll them up 
and put them to boil or simmer, stirring and turning 
occasionally for 15 minutes (no longer, remember), 
rinse in two waters and hang up to dry; no bleach- 
ing or washboards are needed. The above method of 
washing positively will not injure the clothes. Now 
use your boiling suds for washing your colored 
clothes and save by it. Be sure your soap, borax 
and salsoda are thoroughly dissolved. 

LIQUID BLUEING FOE CLOTHES. 

Take best Prussian Blue, pulverized, 1 ounce ; oxalic 
^cid, also pulverized, ^ ounce; soft water, 1 quart; 
mix. The acid dissoJ ^ea the blue and holds it evenly 
in the water so that specking will never take place. 
One or two tablespoons of it is sufficient for a tub of 
water, according to the size of the wash. This is far 
preferable to the blueing sold in stores, and is much 
cheaper. 



304 MRS. OWEXS' COOK BOOK 

BEITISH ENAMEL FOR SHIRT BOSOMS. 

Melt together with a gCDtle heat, 1 ounce of white 
wax, and 2 ounces of spermaceti. Prepare in the 
usual way a sufficient quantity of starch for a dozen 
bosoms, — put into it a piece of British Enamel the 
size of a large pea, and in proportion for a larger 
ironing. It will give your clothes a beautiful polish. 

HOW TO WASH BLANKETS. 

Cousin Bess. 

The process for washing blankets which I recom- 
mend, and have thoroughly tested, is so simple and 
easy, that the formidable task, which is the dread of 
every housewife, is not nearly as laborious as to wash 
and iron a few muslins: 

For one pair of blankets dissolve one-half bar of 
soap; when thoroughly melted add 1 tablespoon of 
borax and 2 of ammonia. Add the mixture to a 
sufficient quantity of water (already softened with 1 
tablespoon of borax) to cover two blankets. Let the 
blankets remain in the suds 1 hour, without rubbing. 
Rinse thoroughly and hang up, without wringing. 
The absence of rubbing and wringing prevents the 
hardness and shrinking of the old process. 



AND (JSEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 305 

TO WASH TOWELS WITH COLORED 
BOEDERS. 

MoUie. 

To set the colors, let the towels soak in a pail of 
cold water containing 1 teaspoon of sugar of lead; 
let them remain ten minntes before washing;. To 
make the colors look clear and bright, use pulverized 
borax in the wash-water, very little soap, and no soda. 

OX-GALL SOAP. 

♦ 

Mrs. H. W. Beecher, in Christian Union. 

Ox-gall soap is an excellent article to use in cleans- 
ing woolens, silks, or fine prints liable to fade. To 
make it, take 1 pint of gall, cut into it 2 pounds of 
common bar soap very fine, and add 1 quart boiling 
soft water. Boil slowly, stirring occasionally until 
well mixed, then pour into a flat vessel, and when 
cold cut into pieces to dry. When using, make a 
suds of it, but do not rub it on the article to be washed. 

TO WASH CALICO. 

Mrs. Simmons. 

If you have dark calico to wash that you fear will 
tade or the colors run, put it in a pail and pour boil- 
ing water on. Let stand till cool enough to wring 
20 



306 MRS. OWKNS' COOK BOOK 

out. Tlien wash like any other. It is better to 
wash such a garment before it gets very badly soiled, 
or the hot water might set the dirt. 

Use glue instead of starch for stiffening black 
dresses. It makes them shine like new and leaves 
no white spots as starch does. Or common flour 
starch colored with cold coffee answers very nicely. 

TO KEMOYE MILDEW OK TO BLEACH. 

Mrs. A. 8. J. 

Dissolve a heaping tablespoon of chloride of lime 
in a pail of water. Dip in the goods and spread out 
to dry in the hot sun, without wringing. When dry 
repeat the process. This will take out the worst case 
of mildew and many other stains. The lime must 
be well dissolved. 

TO RENEW BLACK WOOLEN GOODS OF 
ANY DESCRIPTION. 

Mrs. A. S. J. 

Have the articles well cleansed, then dip in a very 
strong blueing water. Hang up to dry without 
wringing. When nearly dry press on the side in- 
tended for the wrong side, and you will be astonished 
ut the renovation that has taken place. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 307 

Lemon juice and salt mixed together and put on 
iron rust will take it out. Keep it in the sun. 
If one application does not do it trj another. 

A solution of oxalic acid in water will remove 
iron rust. 

TO CLEAN LACES. 

Mrs. N. W. Hammond, Clear Lake, Iowa. 

Spread on a clean cloth a mixture of dry magnesia 
and baking powder. Lay the lace flat on it. Cover 
with the mixture. Eoll up for a few days. Then 
take a dry, soft nail or tooth brush and brush well, 
especially the soiled spots. Shake out and the result 
will be more than you anticipate. White Shetland 
shawls may be "dry" rubbed in flour and cleaned 
beautifully. 

TO WASH LACE MITTS. 

May Owens. 

If you want to color white lace mitts cream, wash 
the mitts with toilet soap, put them into a cup of 
cold cofifee and let them stay about half a day. Do 
not iron them but put them on your hands and wear 
till they are dry. 

Rub clear ammonia on silk that is discolored 
from perspiration. It wiU also restore the color of 



308 MKS, OWENS' COOK BOOK 

goods, particularly black, when tlie color has been 
destroyed by lemon-juice. 

Any shade of blue can be made fast color by dip- 
ping the dress or fabric into enough soft water to 
saturate the material, in which a heaping teaspoon of 
sugar of lead has been dissolved. Then wash the 
fabric as usual. 

TO WASH LINEN SUITS. 

Fill a pail with old, dry hay; put scalding water 
on it and let it stand until the water is colored ; then 
wash the linen in it, and it will look as nice as new. 

TO KEMOYE GKEASE SPOTS. 

Put half a teaspoon of hartshorn to half a teaspoon 
of alcohol; wet a bit of woolen cloth or soft sponge 
in it and rub and soak' the spot with it, and the 
grease, if freshly dropped, will disappear. If the 
spot is of long standing, it may require several appli- 
cations. In woolen or cotton, the spot may be rubbed 
when the liquid is applied, and also in black silk, 
though not hard. But with light or colored silk, wet 
the spot with the cloth or sponge with which the 
hartshorn is put on, patting it lightly. Rubbing 
silk, particularly colored silk, is apt to leave a whitish 
spot, almost as disagreeable as the grease spot. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 309 

Cloth may be bleached beautifully by hanging on 
a line when the sun shines and snow is on the 
ground. Snow bleaches more rapidly than grass. 

To keep wash tubs a long time, do not put water 
inside the tub when the washing is done, but turn it 
bottom side up and cover the bottom with water. It 
will be found that it prevents the staves spreading 
apart at the top. 

As soon as the ironing is done for the day the flat- 
irons should be taken off the stove. To leave them 
on without using takes the temper out of them. 

HOW TO STAKCH SHIRTS. 

WITH COLD STAUCH. 

Allow a teaspoon of starch for each shirt. Use 
only enough water to wet the bosom, -wristbands and 
neckband well. Dip in, squeeze out, roll up and iron 
in fifteen minutes, or let it lie longer if desired. 

WITH HOT STAEOH. 

Dissolve two tablespoons of raw starch in a little 
cold water. Pour on boiling water till of the con- 
sistence of paste. Cook several minutes. Many 
laundresses make their starch early and leave it to 
cook slowly on the back of the stove for two hours 



310 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

or more. Others just merely cook it through. Put 
in a piece of enamel according to directions, or a few 
shavings from a sperm candle. In the absence of 
these use a tablespoon of kerosene to two quarts of 
starch. If the clothes are drj make the starch quite 
thin. Bear in mind that the hotter it is, the better 
the garment will iron and the stiflPer it will be. Dip 
the bosom in and rub the starch through and through 
with the fingers. Pat it hard with the hand and be 
sure that every thread is wet with it. Treat the 
neck band and wristbands the same way. Let dry 
thoroughly. Then take a teaspoon of raw starch in 
a quart of cold water. When well dissolved dip the 
starched parts in quickly, squeeze out, lay smoothly 
and roll up hard. They may be ironed in an hour 
or two. Some shirt ironers dip in clear cold water, 
and some, again, in clear hot water, and all with 
equally good results. This can only be determined 
by experimenting. 

HOW TO IKON A SHIET. 

First iron the back, then the shoulder pieces, then 
the neck band. Be very sure to iron the band on 
both sides equally smooth, that it may not irritate 
the neck of the wearer. Next, iron the sleeves. 
Then lay the wristbands out flat, rub with a clean 
white cloth, slightly dampened, and iron smoothly 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 311 

both sides, finishing with the right side. Next, iron 
the front. If you take a flat-iron that is just the 
right heat for the bosom, iron that before you do the 
plain front. Stretch the bosom on the shirt-board. 
Be very particular to pull it crosswise as well as 
lengthwise, to prevent wrinkles at the neck. Rub 
with a cloth to get off bits of starch that may stick 
to it. Iron carefully with a moderately heated iron. 
If little blisters appear, dip the finger in water 
and dampen clear through. It will then come out 
on being ironed over, provided the starch has been 
rubbed entirely through. If it has not, then the 
blister will remain and there is no remedy for it. If 
a smooch or spot from a rusty or greasy iron appears 
on a polished bosom, do not give up and throw the 
garment into the wash, but immerse the bosom 
quickly in hot water, squeeze dry, stretch on the 
board, rub over with a clean dry cloth and iron again. 
But first take the iron and rub well in salt on a 
brown paper — especially the point and edges — and 
then with a little beeswax, wiping with a dry cloth. 
A polishing iron should be wrapped in fine paper 
and put away carefully after each ironing. 

TO FOLD A SHIRT. 

First roll the wristbands around so they will shape 
themselves to the wrist. It is much nicer than to 



312 HRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

leave them open ind flat. Then laj the shirt on the 
table, bosom side down. Fold a pleat the whole 
length of the back, where the opening is in the back, 
in order to make the back and front the same width. 
Then fold one sleeve over from the shoulder, lap 
that side of the shirt the whole length from the 
edge of the oosom over towards the back. Do the 
other sleeve and side the same way. Iron the folds 
to make it look more neatly. Then double the bot- 
tom of the shirt up to the neck, folding just below 
the bosom, and with the bosom outside. Iron the 
fold and it is done. A quick drying by the fire will 
make the bosom stiifer. 

TO RENOVATE BLACK SILK. 

Brush and wipe off thoroughly with a cloth; lay 
flat on a table and sponge with hot coffee strained 
through muslin. Sponge it on the side intended for 
the right side; then pin to a sheet stretched on the 
carpet until it dries. Do not touch with an iron. 

COMFOKTER SHAMS. 

Mrs. Orlena S. Matteson. 

Fold a breadth of prints or muslin as long as the 

width of the comforter over the end next the face, 

fastening the edges with safety pins or a running 

l)aste. When soiled it is easily taken oflf and washed. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 313 



SICK-ROOM & NURSERY. 

SIMPLE KEMEDY FOR 
EXPELLING SUBSTANCES FROM THE NOSE. 

Children frequently get beans, grains of corn, but- 
tons or other substances up their noses. In such a 
case, have the child open its mouth, apply your 
mouth to it and blow rather hard. The obstacle will 
be expelled from the nostril. 

EXCELLENT REMEDY FOR A CUT OR 
BRUISE OF ANY KIND. 

Immerse the part in as hot water as can be borne 
until the pain and inflammation are relieved. Even 
in cases where amputation seems necessary from the 
terribly lacerated condition of a cut or bruised hand, 
it may be saved by keeping it in a basin of hot 
water for a few hours. Keep the water hot and do 
not give up until the inflammation has subsided. 

TO REMOVE MOLES. 

Tribune Home Department. 
Apply nitric acid with a pointed stick three times, 



314 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

letting a day elapse after each application. Then let 
it heal, and if not entirely gone try once more and 
success is assured. 

EASIEST WAY TO CLEANSE A NUESING 
BOTTLE. 

Buy five cents' worth of shot and put into the 
bottle with a little water and shake it well. Every 
bit of sour milk or curd will come off readily. Pour 
out the shot, rinse the bottle and keep the shot in a 
dish on the stove shelf or near the stove to dry, and 
it is ready for use the next time. 

TO STOP EARACHE. 

Turn the little sufferer on the side and from a 
height of a foot or more pour into the affected ear a 
small stream of water just as hot as you dare use. 
It will cause a momentary screaming but the pain 
will cease. I have tried this with a child two years 
old who was suffering intensely from earache, and 
the entire face and head seemed inflamed. It was 
not fifteen minutes before he fell asleep, and that was 
the last of the earache. 

If the eyes are weak and it is troublesome to 
thread a needle, it may be helped by holding the 
needle owx something white and then threading it. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 315 

SIMPLE TKEATMENT FOE CEOUP 

As soon as the wheezing is heard applj the coldest 
water you can get to the neck and chest. Pound up 
some ice in a napkin and feed the child a little at a 
time with a teaspoon. Keep the cold compress on 
the throat and chest, and if persisted in for a short 
time relief will be almost certain to follow. At any 
rate, even if a physician is sent for, use these pre- 
cautions, and nine times out of ten the disease will 
be checked at once. The chief difficulty in croup is 
in letting it get full headway. There is not an 
instant to lose. 

STEANGE CUEE FOE INFLAMMATOET 
EHEUMATISM. 

A gentleman writes to a Pittsburgh paper that he 
was completely cured by handling doves. He pro- 
cured a number and would stroke and play with them 
daily, and the result was a cure for him, but death to 
the doves. This distressing malady is so obstinate 
that one afflicted with it will resort to almost any- 
thing suggested. 

A CUEE FOE HYDEOPHOBIA. 

Jane Grey Swisshelm. 

Take three ounces of the root of elecampane, stew 
it in a pint of new milk and give it, milk and all, to 



316 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

the patient in the morning while the stomach is 
empty; have him fast six hours after taking it; repeat 
the dose three times in three successive mornings, 
and the cure is complete. Several persons have 
written to saj that it had been tried, on mj recom- 
mendation, and with success. One man who had 
two children, and, I think, twenty hogs and cows 
bitten by a dog furiously rabid, had administered it 
to all, and six months after wrote to say that none of 
them had had any symj^toms of hydrophobia. Ele- 
campane is generally known as a powerful medicinal 
plant, and, as it has been successful, and doctors 
are powerless before this disease, I hope it will 
be promptly tried and if it fails I should like to 
know it. 

CUKE FOE NEUKALGIA. 

Mrs. Dr. Alma S. Bennett, Elk Point, Dakota. 

1 drachm sal ammonia, 4 ounces camphor water. 
Take a teaspoon once in five minutes until relieved. 
This has proved a great boon to a large number of 
sufferers. 

CUKE FOK TOOTHACHE. 

Procure a little plantago from a Homoeopathic 
Pharmacy and take a dose every ten minutes if in- 
stantaneous relief does not follow. 



A.ND USEFUL H0U8EH0LB HINTS. 317 

LATEST KEMEDY FOE BURNS. 

Dampen some bi-carbonate of soda or common 
saleratus with water, and apply to the whole burnt 
surface. Cover with a cloth and keep it moistened. 
This is effectual in every case. 

Twenty minutes in the smoke of wool or woolen 
cloth will take the pain out of the worst case of in- 
flammation arising from any wound. All danger 
from lock-jaw will be removed if this remedy is 
resorted to. 

HOW TO CUEE FEOZEN FEET. 

Get some lumps of fresh lime and make a foot-tub 
full of strong whitewash mixture, and immerse the 
feet in it as hot as may be borne. This remedy is to 
cure that disagreeable itching that troubles one after 
having frozen the feet. This itching will come on 
night after night and season after season. The relief 
will be instantaneous. Let them remain half an hour 
in the whitewash. They will be shriveled up, but 
free from pain. Eub them briskly and great rolls of 
dead cuticle will peel off. Anoint with mutton 
tallow, put on some cotton stockings and go to bed. 
Eejjeat the application if necessary, but it will not 
require but two or three to effect a cure. 



318 ME8. OWENs' (X)OK BOOK 

SMALL-POX AND SCAELET-FEYEK CURE. 

Sulphate of zinc, 1 grain; foxglove, (digitalis) 1 
grain, half a teaspoon of sugar. Mix with 2 table- 
spoons of water. When thoroughly mixed add 4 
ounces of water. Take a teaspoon every hour. Either 
disease, it is claimed, will disappear in twelve hours. 
Give a child a smaller dose. This cure has been the 
rounds of the press from the Atlantic to the Pacific 
and thousands of cures ascribed to it. 

LIME WATER AND MILK. 

1 wine-glass of lime water, 1 goblet of milk. Can 
be retained in the stomach when it rejects everything 
else. It may be taken as often as desired. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

A. B. S. 

The white of 1 fresh egg, juice of 1 lemon, a tea- 
spoon of sugrar beat into a glass of water. Is a 
pleasant and nourishing drink in low fevers, dysen- 
tery, inflammation of stomach, pneumonia, etc. 

bae:ed milk. 

Put half a gallon of milk in a jar and tie it down 
with writing paper. Let it stand in a moderate oven 
8 or 10 hours. It will then be like cream and is 
^ood for consumptives and invalids generally. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 319 

If necessary to use hops on a sick person, make 
two bags and fill with them, and heat in a steamer 
over hot water. This saves many a burnt hand and 
bad stain. Keep one heating while the other is in 
use. 

A high London authority recommends for sleep- 
lessness a breakfast cup of hot beef tea, made from 
half a teaspoon of Leibig's extract. It allays brain 
excitement. (Worth trying.) 

For any female weakness or bearing down, the 
greatest relief may be afforded by an injection of 
water as hot as can be borne. This is a far better 
remedy than any manipulation can afford. 

The practice of inserting cotton in an affected ear 
is a very pernicious one. A well known army surgeon 
in a western city suffered much while in the army 
from earache, and kept putting in cotton to exclude 
the air. He finally became deaf and suffered from 
various nervous ailments for years. A friend, also a 
physician, finally examined his ear, and took out over 
half a finger length of thick wads of cotton. His 
deafness disappeared and his nervous system was 
restored to health. This case is perfectly authentic. 
A high medical authority said that nothing smaller 
than the elbow should be put into the ear. 



320 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

It is claimed by good authority that milk, Qgga 
and tomatoes must be omitted in the diet of those 
suffering with piles. In which event no medicine 
will be necessary. 

Pork is considered unwholesome by nearly all med- 
ical authorities, and especially so for women. The 
less they eat of it the better for their physical and 
mental good. Poultry is the best substitute, with 
good fresh fish— pike, perch or bass, once or twice a 
week, 

COUGH SYEUP. 

Mrs. L. S. H. 

One pint of the best vinegar. Break into it an 
egg and leave in shell and all, over night. In the 
morning it will all be eaten except the white skin 
which must be taken out. Then add one pound of 
loaf sugar and take a tablespoon three times a day, 
for an adult. This is a most excellent remedy for a 
cough in any stage. 

WHOOPING COUGH CUKE. 

Geo. Butler, Waukegan, 111. 

Olive oil 2 ounces, Jamaica rum 2 ounces, brown 
su2:ar 2 ounces, laudanum | ounce. Melt the sugar 
in a little water and add the other ingredients. Give 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 321 

a teaspoon after every paroxysm. This is recom- 
mended by many families who have used it. 

If poison of ahnost any kind has been swallowed 
it may be rendered harmless by swallowing imme- 
diately half a pint of sweet oil. 

To make a mustard poultice that will draw and not 
blister, mix the mustard with white of egg. 

TO STOP NOSE BLEED. 

Excite a vigorous motion of the jaws by chewing 
something — either gum or paper. This is said to be 
effectual. It is certainly worth trying. 

TO CURE WARTS. 

Get from a Homoeopathic Pharmacy a small vial 
of causticum. Give half a dozen pellets three times 
a day for three weeks and the warts will disappear. 

[This I could not credit had I not tried it in my 
own family. The child's hands were literally covered 
with these excrescences and more were coming all 
the time. But this remedy effected a cure in less 
than a month. Ed.] 

MILK FOR BABIES. 

When milk has been set aside for the baby, Tise the 
21 



322 MRS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

upper third. The curd or cheesy part falls to the 
bottom. The upper is more easily digested. 

Let me persuade mothers to discard the tubes that 
come with nursing bottles. They are a fruitful source 
of infantile troubles. Many a baby has gone to its 
grave through their use. No matter how particu- 
larly they are cleansed, particles of sour milk will 
adhere to some parts of the rubber. Our best phy- 
sicians are now advising against them. This is so 
serious a matter that it can not be argued too strongly. 
A rubber nipple placed over the mouth of the bottle 
is very convenient and comparatively safe. It should 
be kept in cold water when not in use, and the bottle 
filled with water. 

I wish to urge upon every young mother the plan 
of putting babies to bed without rocking them. If 
there were but one child in the family and it were 
known to a certainty that it would be the last of that 
line, there might be sufficient excuse to devote one's 
time to rocking it to sleep. But when the first steps 
aside for the second, and the second is followed by 
the third and so on, the mother's time is too valuable 
to spend two or three hours a day in forming a habit 
which will be but an injury to the little one after- 
wards. If it has been put to sleep at the breast 
during the period of nursing, then let the plan be 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 323 

formed when it is weaned. Feed it, and when it is 
time for its nap fondle and kiss it as much as you 
like, but lay it down, cover it up, turn and leave it. 
It will sob and cry, and perhaps sit bolt upright or 
slide out of bed, but put it back, if for twenty times. 
It will not take very many of these persistencies un- 
til the habit of going to sleep alone and quietly will 
be formed, and all parties to the proceeding will pro- 
nounce themselves the better for it. Pray do not 
think your child is an exception. Children are very 
much alike, after all. Of course, it takes longer to 
conquer some than it does others, and strong wills are 
very perceptible even in babies of a few months old. 
Our aim is not to break the will, only to bend it in 
a direction to benefit itself. 

And now a parting word to mothers — those of yon 
who do your own work. Women who keep servants 
may skip tliis chapter. Save yourself. Sa/ve yov/r- 
self. 

SAYE YOUESELF. 

In the first place, sit all you can. Sit down to 
prepare the vegetables for dinner. Sit down to wipe 
the dishes. Sit down to scour the knives and rub up 
the silver. Sit down to take up the ashes. Sit down 
to the ironing board and smooth the plain pieces. 
And here, before I forget it, let me say, get your 



324 MRS. OWICNS' COOK BOOK 

steel Knives plated and save yourself about six hours 
time each month. Once plated, they will keep bright 
with ordinary washing and wiping three or four years. 
Nothing will spot them. Yinegar or acid of any 
kind has no effect. It is called Stannil Plating. The 
cost is one dollar per dozen knives. It is an invest- 
ment that pays a very large interest. 

Now, about ironing. If your husband's night- 
shirt is smoothed in front and folded artistically, who 
is to know whether the back has been ironed or not? 
I'll venture to say, that he will not, unless you tell 
him. The same with your own night-dresses; and 
the childrens' drawers ! Little romps, they soil them 
in less time than it takes to do them up. Let the 
gathers go. Iron the bottoms of the legs smoothly, 
and that is enough. You can iron six or eight pairs 
in this way, while otherwise, you would be working 
at two pairs. 

Learn to slight where it will do to slight. Aprons 
and dresses should be done the very best that one 
knows how. 

Sheets may be folded smoothly and have a weight 
put upon them; or, take one at a time, and lay it 
under the ironing sheet and iron over it for awhile. 
Then fold and put away and take another, until all 
are done. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 325 

It is not absolutely necessary to iron skirts, except 
r ir twelve or fifteen inches above the bottom. 

Bear in mind, these are hints to those only, who 
need them. But there is enough in life that has to 
be done, without vexing our souls and wearing out 
our bodies over work that is not essential either to 
the happiness or well-being of our fellows. 

The latest cure for soft corns is this: Wash and 
dry the foot thoroughly, and put on a sprinkling of 
dry sulphur night and morning for several weeks, 
and a cure is assured. 

STIMULATING SPONGE BATH. 

Dr. J. E. Gilman. 
1 cnp water, 1 cup alcohol, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 oz. 
aromatic spirits of ammonia. Yery agreeable and 
stimulating. 

DIET FOR THE SICK. 

CHICKElSr JELLY. 

Cut a large chicken into very small pieces, break 
the bones, put into a stone jar, water-tight; set the 
jar into a kettle of boiling water and boil three 
hours; strain off the liquid and put in a cold place. 
Season with loaf sugar, salt, pepper, mace and lemon- 
iuice. 



826 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

AEKOW EOOT JELLY. 

Mix three tablespoons of arrow root with water or 
milk until perfectly smooth ; boil the peel of one lemon 
in a pint of water until reduced one-half; take out 
the peel and pour in the dissolved arrow root; sweeten 
it, and boil five minutes. 

KICE JELLY. 

One-quarter of a pound of rice, half a pound of 
loaf sugar, water sufficient to cover it, spice or lemon 
peel. Boil the rice until all dissolves; strain and 
season; set away until cold. 

SAGO JELLY. 

Teacup of sago, one quart of water or milk, rind 
of lemon, nutmeg. Wash the sago well, and soak 
for three hours ; boil it in the same water until trans- 
parent. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

"Wash a teacup of tapioca through several waters, 
soak all night, and boil until transparent; add sugar 
and lemon juice while boiling, and put it away to 
cool when done. 

mDIAN MEAL GKUEL. 

Mix half a cup of Indian meal with a very little 
water, stir until perfectly smooth; to a pint and a 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 327 

half of boiling water salted, add the meal, stirring it 
in slowly; let it boil half an hour; it can be retained 
on the stomach when almost everything else is re- 
jected. 

BEEF TEA. 

One pound of lean beef, cut very small, put into 
a wide-mouthed bottle, corked closely; set the bottle 
into a pan of water, and keep it boiling for two hours; 
strain the liquid and season. Chicken can be used 
the same way. 

TAMAKIND WATEK. 

One tumbler of tam.arinds, one pint of cold water. 
Turn the water over the tamarinds, and let it stand 
an hour; strain it before using. Currant jelly or 
cranberry jelly can be used similarly. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Three tablespoons of whole flaxseed to a quart of 
boiling water; let it stand until very thick; then 
strain it over the juice of one lemon and powdered 
gum arabic; sweeten to taste. 

BEATEN EGG. 

Beat a fresh egg very light, add a little sugar, and 
gtir into a tumbler of milk. 



328 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

EENNET WHEY. 

One quart of milk, almost boiling, two tablespoons 
of prepared rennet, or a piece of rennet which has 
been soaked in water. Sugar to taste. Stir the 
rennet into the hot milk; let it stand until cool, and 
strain it. 

MES. GAKFIELD'S BEEF EXTKACT. 

1 ft. lean beef cut fine, put into 1 pint cold water, 
add 6 drops muriatic acid. Mix thoroughly, let 
stand 1 hour, strain and press until all the liquid u 
extracted. 



USEFUL HINTS. 

Be sure to keep a vessel of water on the stove in 
sitting or sleeping rooms. It will not only ward off 
headaches, but will prevent furniture coming apart. 
A dry heat unglues and is ruinous to furniture. 
TO PRESERVE BOOT AND SHOE SOLES. 

Warm the soles and apply a heavy coat of warm 
coal tar. Dry it in, and apply two more coats before 
wearing them at all. Smear the edges as long as they 
will absorb the tar. They will wear like horn, and 
once giving it a trial will convince the most skeptical 
of its value. The tar costs but a few cents at gas 
works. Warm it on the stove in a tin dish. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 829 

Those using copper vessels for cooking should have 
them re-tinned once a year. 

It is economy to use individual butter dishes at 
table. 

Do not put salt on meat, to keep it. It destroys 
all tenderness. Put on pepper instead. 

To keep ink from getting thick, put two or three 
cloves in a bottle. Sure. 

TO PURIFY WATER. 

A tablespoon of powdered alum will purify a whole 
hogshead of water. It precipitates all impurities. 
A teaspoon will only be required for several gallons. 

To cut butter in cold weather, heat the knife, and 
aU crumbling is avoided. 

The very best thing to clean Plaster of Paris stat- 
uary is common white calcimine. It gives them the 
look of the purest white marble. 

Pack horse-radish in a box of earth and grate it as 
it is wanted in winter. 

Grease may be removed from a white floor by 
making a common hasty pudding of corn-meal and 
laying it on the spot until cold. 



330 MRS. o wens' cook book 

TO REMOTE GREASE FROM WALL PAPER. 



Pulverize a common claj pipe, mix it with water 
into a stiff paste, lay it on very carefully, letting it 
remain over niglit. Then lightly brush it off. 

INK STAINS 

Can be removed from a carpet by freely pouring 
milk on the place, and leaving it to soak in for a 
time, then rub it so as to remove all ink, and scoop 
up remaining milk with a spoon; repeat the process 
with more milk, if necessary; then wash it off com- 
pletely with clean cold water, and wipe it dry with 
cloths. If this is done when the ink is wet, the milk 
takes all stain out of woolen material instantly; but 
when it has dried, a little time is required. 

ANOTHER. 



As soon as the ink is spilled, put on salt, and cover 
well. Remove as fast as it becomes colored, and put 
on fresh. Continue this till the salt is white, sweep 
well, and no trace of ink will remain. Corn-meal 
used similarly on coal oil spots on cai*pets, will re- 
move every particle, even if a large quantity has been 
spilled. 



Aim USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 331 

If a canary-bird loses its voice, hang a small piece 
of salt pork in the cage, first soaking it in warm 
water and sprinkling it with cayenne pepper. 

Clean paint brushes by soaking in turpentine, and 
then washing in hot soap suds. 

HAIR BRUSHES. 

A few drops of hartshorn in a little water will clean 
a hair brush better than anything else, and will do 
no harm. If very dirty, rub a little soap on. After 
cleaning, rinse in clear water, and hang up by the 
window to dry. Do not let the bristles rest on any 
hard substance while wet. Tie a string round the 
handle and hang up. 

TO CLEAN WILLOW. FURNITURE. 

Take a coarse brush dipped in salt and water ana 
wash the furniture well, and then dry; the salt keeps 
it from turning yellow. 

TO CLEAN WHITE FUR. 

Take a clean piece of flannel, and with some heated 
bran rub the fur well, when it will be quite renewed. 
The bran should be heated in a moderate oven, for a 
hot oven will scorch and brown the fur. Oatmeal 
with no husks is preferable to bran. Dried flour will 
also answer. 



332 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

PASTE THAT WILL KEEP A YEAR 

Mrs. A. L. B. 

Dissolve a teaspoon of alum in a quart of warm 
water. When cold, stir in flour to the consistency 
of thick cream, beating up all the lumps. Stir in 
powdered rosin, and throw in a half dozen cloves to 
give it a pleasant odor. Have on the fire a teacup 
of boiling water; pour the flour mixture into it, 
stirring well all the time. In a few moments it will 
be of the consistency of mush. Pour it into an 
earthen or china vessel; let it cool, lay a cover on, 
and put it in a cool place. When needed for use, 
take out a portion and soften it with boiling water. 
Paste thus made will last twelve months. It is better 
than gum, as it does not gloss the paper, and can be 
written on. 

A CEMENT FOE KUBBER. 

Rubber boots may be repaired by a cement made 
as follows: Cut gutta-percha in small pieces, and dis- 
solve it in benzine to a thin mucilage. Clean the 
rubber free from grease with benzine and a sponge, 
and apply the patch covered with the gutta-percha 
cement. The cement should be warmed by putting 
the bottle in hot water before it is used. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 333 

WATEK-PKOOF BLACKING FOE BOOTS 
AND SHOES. 

One-half pound gum-shellac; cover with alcohol, 
cork tightly, and let stand three days, shaking occa- 
sionally. Then add a piece of gum-camphor the size 
of an egg. Let stand as above, and add one ounce 
of lampblack. 

To remove a glass stopple from a bottle, hold a 
lighted match or candle to the neck of the bottle, 
and the heat will cause the neck to expand so the 
stopple will loosen. 

If you wish to cut rubber of any kind, wet the 
knife. It p>revents sticking. 

TO PEEVENT EUSTING OF TIN. 

When new, rnb over with fresh lard, and put in 
a hot oven and heat thoroughly. Thus treated, it 
may be used indefinitely in water or out, and remain 
bright. 

TO PEEYENT HONEY FEOM CANDYING. 

After being taken from the comb put it into a 
kettle and over the fire; boil it gently and as the 
scum rises skim it ofi^ until it becomes clear, when it 
can be turned into the vessel you wish to. keep it in, 
where it will keep clear and fresh without candying. 



334 MRS. OWICNS' COOK BOOK 

To prevent incrustation of kettles, keep a clean 
marble or oyster shell inside, which will attract the 
particles of sand. 

FOR CLEANING SILVER 

One-half ounce of prepared chalk, two ounces of 
alcohol, two ounces of aqua ammonia. Apply with 
cotton flannel, and rub with chamois skin. 

Wash silver in very hot, clear water, and wipe dry 
with a soft towel, and you will have no need for 
silver soap, or any other preparation. 

INDELIBLE INK. 

C. S. Johnston, Harford, Pa. 

Dissolve a couple of drachms of nitrate of silver 
and half an ounce of gum-arabic in a gill of rain- 
water. Add aqua ammonia, a few drops at a time, 
till you get the color the right shade. After mark- 
ing, dry the goods near the flre, or in the sun. Don't 
mark new cloth before the dressing is washed out, 
but starch and iron the garment, then mark, and all 
creation will not be likely to wash it out. Keep it 
dark. 

Do not put milk in tin vessels that have the tin 
worn off. It will blacken the milk and cause a dis- 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 335 

coloring of tea in wliicli it is used that is very un- 
pleasantly perceptible. 

MAEKING INK. 

Dissolve asplialtum in oil of naptha, and it will 
answer for marking parcels, drying quickly and not 
spreading. 

INVISIBLE INK. 

Make a solution of nitrate of chloride of cobalt. 
It is made visible by warming the paper written upon. 

Notice the right and wrong side of cotton cloth, 
when making up. It will keep clean longer, and be 
smoother for it. 

To get rid of red or black ants, sprinkle salt over 
your shelves. 

Salt is also a dead sure preventive of moths in 
carpets if put around under the edges when tacked 
down. 

YEKMIN EXTERMINATOR 

Hot alum water is a recent suggestion as an insec- 
ticide. It will destroy red and black ants, cock- 
roaches, chinch-bugfi, and all the crawling pests which 
infest our houses. Take two pounds of alum and 
dissolve it in three or four quarts of boiling water; 



836 MRS. OWENs' COOK BOOK 

let it stand on the fire till tlie alum disappears; then 
apply it with a brush, while nearly boiling hot, to 
every joint and crevice in your closets, bedsteads, 
pantry shelves and the lilie. Brush crevices in the 
floor of the mop-boards, if you suspect they harbor 
vermin. It may be applied with a common small oil 
can by wrapping the hand in a cloth to prevent burn- 
ing. 

F"or vermin in children's heads, use Indian berries 
in bay-rum. They may be procured of druggists. 

Equal parts of borax and white sugar will drive 
away roaches or Croton bugs. 

TO GILD A PIOESE-SHOE. 

Cover first with a solution of gum-arabic, then 
sift on the bronze dust, which can be procured from 
a painter; or, mix bronze with mucilage and apply 
with a brush 

To stop a chimney burning, shut all the windows 
and doors, to prevent a current of air, and throw a 
handful or more of salt in the fire. 

TO STOP FROTHING OF CEEAM. 

Mrs. A. L. Beaumont. 

To stop the frothing of cream and make butter 
come quick, to two gallons of cream put in three 



AND USEFUL HODSEHOLD HINTS. 337 

pints of boiling water out of the teakettle; it wiD 
come in ten minutes. 

TO KEEP UP SASH WI:N"D0WS. 

Bore three or four holes in the sides of the sash, 
into which insert common bottle-cork, projecting 
about the sixteenth part of an inch. These will press 
against the window frames along the usual groove 
and bj their elasticity support the sash at any height 
which may be required. 

Soak mackerel in a stone crock. Tin rusts badly. 

Using soap on babies' heads is a fruitful cause of 
the hair falling oil*. Abstain from it, and the hair is 
much more likely to remain. 

To make the hair stay in crimp, take two cents' 
worth of gum-arabic, and add to it just enough boil- 
ing water to dissolve it. When dissolved, add enough 
alcohol to make rather thin. Let this stand all night, 
and then bottle it to prevent the alcohol from evap- 
orating. This put on the hair at night after it is 
done up in paper or pins will make it stay in crimp 
the hottest day, and is perfectly harmless. 

One can have the hands in soap suds with soft soap 
without injury to the skin, if the hands are dipped 

22 



838 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

in vinegar or lemon-juice immediately after. Indian 
meal and vinegar or lemon-juice used on hands when 
roughened by cold or lalDor will heal and soften them. 
Rub the hands in this; then wash off thoroughly and 
rub in glycerine. Those who suffer from chapped 
hands in the winter will find this comforting. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 
Mrs. M. A. S. 

Six drachms of camphor gum, half an ounce of 
white wax, one and a half ounces of spermaceti, 
three tablespoons of olive oiL Melt together. 

TO BEAUTIFY TEETH. 

Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of 
boiling water. Before it is cold add one teaspoon of 
spirits of camphor. A tablespoon of this with an 
equal amount of tepid water will cleanse the teeth 
from all imj)urities. It is also a very excellent wash 
for the hair. 

SCENT POWDER. 

One ounce each of coriander, orris root, rose leaves 
and aromatic calamus, two ounces of lavender flowers, 
one-fourth drachm of rhodium wood, five grains of 
musk, mix and reduce to powder. This scent is as 
if all fragrant flowers were pressed together. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 



339 



WAXED FLOORS. 

Mr3. G. B. L. 

One pound of beeswax, one quart of benzine — tbe 
beeswax melted soft, to which add tbe benzine; put 
them over a stove, the fire closely covered, as benzine 
is highly inflammable; stir together until well mixed. 
These are the proportions ; the quantity must depend 
upon the space to be covered. Apply to the floor, 
first making it clean, and rub in thoroughly. It 
shows the grain of the wood and makes a permanent 
polish, growing better by use and rubbing in. It is 
free of dust and clean. 

POLISHED FLOORS 

Should not be scrubbed or scoured, but simply 
swept with a broom covered with flannel. Polish 
twice a year. 

PAINT FOR KITCHEN FLOOR. 

Three pints of oil, one pint of dryer, three pounds 
of white lead, five pounds of yellow ochre, add a 
little turpentine. 

A HOME-MADE CARPET. 

Exchange. 
Paste the floor of the room over with newspapers. 
Over this, paste wall paper of a pattern to look like 



S40 MKS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

carpet or oil-clotli. Put down as smoothly as pos- 
sible, match it nicely where the widths come together. 
Use good flour paste. Then size and varnish it. 
Dark glue and common furniture varnish may be 
used. Place a rug here and there, and your room is 
carpeted. 

TO PKEVENT STAIE CARPETS FROM 
WEARING. 

Stair carpets should always have a slip of paper, or 
a padding made of cheap cotton batting tacked in a 
cheap muslin put under them, at and over the edge 
of every stair, which is the part where they wear 
first. The strips should be within an inch or two as 
long as the carpet is wide and about four or five 
inches in breadth. A piece of old carpet answers 
better than paper if you have it. This plan will 
keep a stair carpet in good condition for a much 
longer time than without it. 

To remove putty that has become hardened, heat 
an iron and apply to it. It softens, and may be re- 
moved very readily without injury to the window sash. 

Mutton tallow for sores is made better by adding 
a little spirits of camphor. 

To mend broken china, glass, marble, or common 
crockery, mix fresh slaked lime with white of egg 



AKD USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 341 

until it becomes a sticky paste. Apply to the edges, 
and in three days it will be as firm as when new. 

To stop a lootli cavity from bleeding, fill the cavity 
with Plaster of Paris made into a soft putty with 
water. 

MAKE YOUE OWN COUKT PLASTER 

Tack a piece of silk on a small frame. Dissolve 
some isinglass in water. When well incorporated, 
apply with a brush to the silk, let it dry, repeat it, 
and when dry, cover it with a strong tincture of 
balsam of Peru. 

COLOGNE WATEK. 

One pint of alcohol. Add thirty drops of oil of 
lemon and thirty of burgamot. Shake well; then 
add half a gill of water. Bottle for use.. 

Lemons may be kept fresh for a long time by keep- 
ing in water in a covered vessel. Change the water 
every day or two. 

FIKE KINDLERa • 
Mrs. A. 8. J. 

To one pound of resin, put from two to three 
ounces of tallow; melt very carefully together, and 
when hot, stir in fine sawdust, and make very thick. 



342 MRS. OWENS 'cook book 

Spread it immediately about one incli thick upon a 
board. Sprinkle fine sawdust over the board first, to 
prevent sticking When cold, break into lumps one 
inch square. If made for sale, take a thin board, 
grease the edge, and mark it ofi" into squares, press- 
ing it deep, while yet warm, so it will break in regu- 
lar shapes. This may be sold at a good profit. It 
takes but very little to kindle a fire. 

Flowers that are quite withered may be revived 
wonderfully by immersing the stems in hot water. 
Not boiling, but so hot that the hand cannot be borne 
in it. 

Here is a list of a few articles not always provided 
for a young housekeeper: Spice boxes, nest of gro- 
cery boxes, butter pat, larding needle, trussing nee- 
dle, jelly or blanc mange moulds, waffle iron, cake 
box, dredging boxes for flour, sugar, and salt; 
Victor potato masher. 



DYES. 

COCHINEAL KED. 

One and a half ounces of cochineal, two ounces of 
cream of tartar, two ounces of muriate of tin, one 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 3d3 

pound of yarn or clotli. Put the cochineal into 
water sufficient for tlie goods, and set over the fire. 
Wlien warm, add the cream of tartar. "Wlien scald- 
ing hot, put in the tin. Boil the goods in the dye 
half an hour. Rinse in warm water. Color in brass. 
If the muriate of tin cannot be procured, use muri- 
atic acid and pour on pieces of tin and let it remain 
over night. The muriate of tin will be formed and 
can be used in the morning. 

PUEPLE. 

Ten cents worth of cudbear tied in a bag, one pail 
of water. Heat scalding hot. Dip the cloth into 
warm suds, and then into the dye for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Dry, then wash in clean soap and water 
and rinse. 

YELLOW FOE COTTON. 

Six pounds of goods in water, to wet through. 
Nine ounces sugar-of-lead dissolved in the same 
quantity of water. Six ounces bichromate of potash 
in the same quantity of water. Keep separate. Dip 
the goods first into the sugar-of-lead water, then into 
the potash water, then into the sugar-of-lead water 
again. Dry. Einse in cold water and dry again. 

OEANGE FOE COTTON 

Prepare a strong lime water — the stronger the 



3-1:4 IIKS. OWEXS' COOK BOOK 

deeper the color. Pour off the water and boil. 
While boiling, dip the goods previously colored yel- 
low into it. All these solutions are to be cold except 
the lime water. Will not fade. 

MADDER EED. 

One pound of yam or cloth, eight ounces of 
madder, three ounces of alum, one ounce of cream of 
tartar. Five gallons of soft water. Let it boil with 
the alum and cream of tartar. Put in the goods 
and boil two hours. Take out, air, rinse in cleai 
water. Pour the liquor away and prepare the same 
quantity of water as before. Put in the madder, 
broken fine. Heat the water. Enter the goods. 
Stir constantly one hour; then let it boil five minutes. 
Take out, rinse in cold water; then wash through 
three suds. 

GREEN. 

Five pounds of fustic, ten pounds of goods. Put 
the fustic into water and almost boil for twelve hours. 
Tlien remove the chips and put in the yarn or goods 
and boil half an hour. Take it out and add two 
pounds of alum. Dip again for half an hour. Take 
out the goods and stir into the dye one tablespoon of 
composition and let it boil, stirring it well together. 
Then dip till the color suits. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 345 

COMPOSITIOIS. 

Three ounces of good indigo, ground and sifted, 
one poiind oil of vitriol, mixed gradually. Let stand 
one hour. 

For pale blue, take a little composition in boiling 
hot water. Very nice for little children's stockings. 

OKANGE. 

Two and a half pounds of camwood, one pound of 
fustic. Boil in a brass kettle half an hour. Boil 
five pounds of goods one hour; cool, and add one 
ounce of blue vitriol and two quarts of copperas 
water to the dye and boil five minutes; then let cool 
and put in your goods till the color suits. 

ANNATO. 
Mrs. E. B. B. 

Five ounces annato in a bag, three pails of strong 
soap suds or weak lye. Dip the cloth in suds previ- 
ously prepared. Then put into the dye and boil 
until it takes the strength of the dye. 

BLACK. 

For a dress with overskirt, three ounces extract of 
logwood, one and a half ounces of blue vitriol. Dis- 
solve the vitriol in water and the logwood in another 



346 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

water. "Wet the goods thoroughly in warm water 
before putting into the vitriol water. Put a piece of 
copperas the size of a walnut into the logwood dye, 
and when the dye is hot, put in the goods, stirring 
and airing it for about half an hour, then dry it. 
Then wash immediately in hot soap suds in several, 
waters, so that it will not crock. In the last water 
put a little salt. Wring it dry, roll up and let remain 
several hours before pressing. 

[This recipe may be relied upon fully. Ed.] 

EED. 

Mrs. Hollett. 

Three ounces solution tin, four ounces powdered 
cochineal. Boil the latter in water enough to cover 
the goods for about six minutes, then add the tin. 
Put in goods and boil half an hour. Rinse in cold 
water, and dry in the shade. 

SEAL BEOWN FOR WOOLEN GOODS. 

For ten pounds goods take one pound catechu, four 
ounces blue vitriol, four ounces bichromate of potash; 
dissolve each in separate ^\^ater; heat the goods one 
hour in the catechu water; wring out; dip and wring 
out of the liot vitriol water; leave them fifteen min- 
utes in the potash water; dry and wash them. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 34:7 



BILLS OF FARE. 



I offer here a few suggestions as helps to the prac- 
tical housewife in her everyday cooking, and some 
hints for a child's party. If large lunch, dinner, or 
tea parties are given in the city, a caterer may be 
employed. If given in the country, the season of 
the year and the articles obtainable must enter into 
the bill of fare served. 

SUGGESTIONS FOK A BILL OF FARE IN A PKIVATE 
FAMILY FOE ONE WEEK. 

SUNDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal Mush. Codfish Balls. Saratoga Potatoes. Waffles. 
Maple Syrup. Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Roast Beef with Yorkshire Pudding. 

Potatoes, Celery, Canned Vegetables and Pickles. 

Blanc Mange. Apple Pie. Coffee. 

SUPPER. 

Thin bread and Butter. Cold Baked Beans. Sauco, 
Cake. Tea. 



348 MRS. OWKNS' COOK BOOK 

MONDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Cracked Wheat and Milk. Ragout of cold Roast Beef. 

Baked Eggs. Baked Potatoes. Coffee or Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Boiled Dinner. Suet Pudding. 

SUPPER. 

Mush and Milk. Buttered Toast. Cheese. Bauoe. 
Cake. Tea. 

TUESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fried Mush. Maple Syrup. Corned Beef Haan. 
Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Roast Pork. Fried Apples. Boiled Potatoes. Tomatoes. 
Lemon Pie. 

SUPPER. 

Potato Salad. Cold Roast Pork. Milk Toast 
Jelly Cake. Jam. Tea. 

WEDNESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal Mush. Codfish Stew. Baked Potatoes. Muffins. 
Coffee or Chocolate. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 345:> 

DINNEB. 

Boiled Mutton. Boiled Rice. Mashed Potatoes. Turnips. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

(Leave enough Potates for Breakfast) 

SUPPER. 

Cold Mutton, sliced with Lemon. Russian Salad. Hot Biscuit. 
Lemon Butter. Soft Gingerbread. Tea. 

THURSDAY 

BREAKFAST. 

Rice Croquettes. Broiled Beefsteak. Lyonnaise Potatoes. 
Laplanders. Coffee or Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

•calves' Liver Larded. Potatoes. Cold Slaw. Com. 
Mince Pie. Cheese. 

SUPPER. 

Chipped Beef. Sweet Pickles. Buttered Toast 
Preserves and Cake. Tea, 

FRIDAY. 

BBEAKFAST. 

Hominy. Egg Omelet. Saratoga Potatoes. Graham Q«ms. 
Doughnuts. Coffee or Chocolate. 

DINNEB. 

Fished Baked, Boiled or Fried. Potatoes. Cauliflo-vrer. 
Tomatoes. Rice Pudding. 



350 MES. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

SUPPER. 

Sardines with slices of Lemon. Banana or other Fritters. 

Bread and Butter. Floating Island. 

Sponge Cake. Tea. 

SATURDAY 

BREAKFAST. 

Macaroni. Mutton Chops. Potatoes a la creme. 
Griddle Cakes. Coflfee or Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Oysters or Fowls. Seasonable Vegetables. Berry Pie. 

SUPPER. 

Boston Baked Beans and Brown Bread. Lettuce. 
Welsh rarebit. Cranberry Sauce. Cake. Tea. 

SUGGESTIONS FOE BEEAKFASTS FOE ANOTHER WEEK. 

1st — Veal Cutlets. Johnny cake. 
2d. — Liver and Bacon. Wheat Cakes. 
3d. — Scrambled Eggs. Graham Muflfins. 
4th. — Tenderloins. Corn-meal Rolls. 
5th. — Salt Mackerel. Bread Pancakes. 
6th. — Ham and Eggs. Popovers. 
7th. — Fried Chicken. Corn Cakes. 

SUGGESTIONS FOE DINNEES FOE ANOTHEB WEEK. 

1st. — Roast Tm-key. Pumpkin Pie. 

3d.— Boiled Ham. Roll Pudding. 

3d. — Veal Pot Pie. Cranberry Pie. 

4th. — ^Beef a la mode. Queen of Puddings. 

5th. — Parsnip Stew. Pie plant Pie. 

6th. — Fish. Boiled Indian Pudding. 

7th. — Beef Soup with Vegetables. Snow BaUs. 



^ND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 35] 

Sandwiches, Panned Oysters, Small Pickles, 
Jelly Tarts, Vanities, Kisses, Comfits, 

Birthday Cake, Patty-pans, frosted, Whistles, 
Jelly Roll, Variety Cake, Pyramid Paste, 

Raisins, Nuts, Popcorn Balls, Seasonable Fruits, 
Lemonade, Ice Cream, Chocolate. 

AIpo, make a pyramid cake of four loaves, baked in a two-quart, throe- 
pint and a pint basin and a muffin ring, all put together and heavily frosted. 

Give each little guest a tiny lace bag of confectionery tied with a ribbon. 
Either make the bag square, or in the shape of a stocking. If you have no 
lace, use mosquito netting, and tie it with bright worsted. 

Festoons of popcorn are pleasing, and a tiny bouquet for each one is just 
the thing. The bouquet should be placed by the plate at table. 

PYRAMID PASTE. 
Make a rich pie paste and cut three or four sizes, 
fitting one upon another. Cut a bit from each ex- 
cept the bottom. Bake on a buttered paper laid on 
tins. Then place one above another with a differ- 
ent kind of preserve or jam in each. On top place 
green gages, currants, grapes, or other fruit. 

WHISTLES. 

I cup butter. 

1 cup sugar. 

6 eggs. Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add 
the beaten eggs, and flour to make a stiff batter, 
drop little pats on a buttered paper, 3 inches apart; 
spread thin; bake in a pan 5 minutes, or until a light 
brown; lay on a sugared moulding board while warm, 
and roll on a stick; when cold, fill with jelly. 



862 US&. OWENS' OOOK BOOK 



AN OLD CITIZEN TO A YOUNG WIFE, 



You have noticed the monotony of existence, of course. With 
your husband the round of life is by days. With you it is three 
times as short, or by meals. Having to prepare food three times 
a day, indefinitely, you find that there are only narrow lines of 
eatables which can be relied on implicitly. However fancifully 
you may cook certain things, there are certain other articles 
which can be simply gotten up, and which will give better sat- 
isfaction. You will find that, for a steady jog over the course 
of life, yourself and husband will rely largely on good bread, 
butter, coffee, potatoes, beef, and mutton. These, with the fruits 
which come along already cooked, make up a constant bill of 
fare which puts strength in the limbs and, I think I may say, 
nobility in the heart. Now, if I can give any little hint about 
these cardinal elements of vitality which will hurry on yoxir own 
conclusions, then any excuse for having opened my mouth at all 
will be sufficient. 

Now, about bread. The old-fashioned way of making "sponge" 
is the best. If your mother or your grandmother can tell you 
how to make the bag of corn-meal stuff and then the more fleet- 
ing jar of wet, sour, and uncomfortable mixture, you will ] ave 
light bread. The compressed yeast of the grocer never yields 
the same results. Again, if you live in the city, the "Vienna 
bread " will give you a good deal for your money. The true 
" Vienna bake " has cracks in the roll, where the gas has escaped 
in heating. This bread averages better than you or any other 
person with a small oven can bake. It never palls on the taste. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 353 

If you have but two in the family, it i» cheaper than home- 
made bakings of equal freshness. 

Butter, since the introduction of grease into its manufacture, 
has become a problem. You cannot be sure that you are get- 
ting what you pay for, except during June. In June, butter is 
grass-sweet, and cannot be mistaken. If your grocer have but- 
ter at 20, 23, and 28 cents, pay him 28 cents. When it comes 
June, observe whether or not the first-class butter is grass-sweet. 
If not, your grocer is a rascal, and you must make a change, at 
all hazards. If the grocer be honest, he buys honestly. His 
best butter will have little or no grease in it. I am inclined to 
think this particular grease brings on the fearful winter cholera 
which has made its appearance simultaneously with the inven- 
tion of oleomargarine. "Butter" set in a north window, ex- 
posed to the outside air, will often turn deathly white if there 
be grease in it, and by "grease" I, of course, mean the render- 
ing fat of the slaughter-houses. Let your grocer imderstand 
that you resent grease in your butter; he will then make an 
effort to save you from that trial. Never hesitate in paying the 
highest price. The grocer deals with many who want " first- 
class " butter at a secoud-class price. They do not wish to be 
told they are not buying the best. Let him know that you are 
not a hypocrite in this matter. Qood butter is the cheapest for 
all purposes, principally on account of your health. 

A good cup of coffee is a " square meal " in itself I can tell 
you just how to get it. Buy the best grades. If you choose 
roasted, have the grocer grind it before your eyes. Buy only 
one pound. Keep it in a tin canister. You need two-thirds of 
ft pound of Java and one-third of a pound of Mocha. Go to the 
tinner's with a common, large cofi"ee-pot. This ought to cost 35 
cents. Have the tinner make an inside can something like a 
" plug hat," with a rim. On the inside of the pot, a little below 
the top, set out four tin shoulders to catch the rim of the inside 
can as it is set down into the pot. The bottom of the inside 
can should almost touch the bottom of the pot. This ought to 
cost about 60 cents more. How, this inside can should hold the 



354 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

grounds and water for four cups of coffee. To make the coffee, 
use a " top-full " and a little more of coffee, and pour water to 
fill up the inside can. Then hang the can in about three inches 
of water in the big pot. This will cook the coffee as glue or 
oatmeal should be cooked. The aroma will be in the coffee, in- 
stead of up stairs in the parlor or bedroom. If your husband 
has to hurry to business in the morning, get an oil-stove with- 
out any "extras," two wicks, and the coffee will cook in twenty 
minutes. That is about all an oil-stove is good for — to hurry up 
a coal stove. The coffee is done when Bhe grounds have sunk. 
Put absolutely nothing in it save cream and sugar. This coffee 
will make your husband love you. It is a love-philter of the 
strongest nature. He will famish wheo he goes elsewhere for 
a meal. 

Your potatoes should be of the same size, peeled and cooked 
in cold water to start with. When the^ are fairly done, drain 
them excellently well, and keep the cover off them carefully. 
Do not let the steam strike in. Mash and mash and mash. 
Potatoes will stand a great lot of salt, and butter is thrown away 
on them, I am afraid. You can try that, however; what I am 
after is a dish of dry, mashed potatoes, as flaky as the snow in a 
blizzard. Some people's potatoes are as slushy as hop yeast. 
Bah ! There are housewives who never have wet mashed pota- 
toes, and I have given you their exact mode. If yours continue 
sloppy, simplify the proceeding; do not slice; be careful about 
the steam, and mash and mash. 

If you live in the city, beef is your constant trouble. It is 
beef, beef, beef, until you sicken at the sound and tarp Tialer still 
at the thing itself. Your reliance here must be on the Uord and 
in the butcher. It is the butcher's interest to sell you all his 
bad beef first, and you will find him singularly true tP his in- 
terests. It is a good idea to change butchers once a "lonth. 
Buy, however, at the centre of the city, if possible. The r«^rer 
the limits the poorer the meat, as a rule. Good meat cosU- but 
it is all eatable and digestible. I have foimd it the safest 'x^le 
to buy the fattest. The marbled appearance sometimes cor s 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 355 

from the 8udden fattening on swill of a tough old cow. A good 
porterhouse steak is as long as a large platter, and is grateful 
to the taste, tail, fat, and all. This, broiled on a big bed of coals, 
turned often, and dressed with melted butter, pepper, salt, slices 
of lemon and bits of parsely tops, is the best eating in the world. 
It makes one hungry to think of it! Never frj' meat in lard. 
But you can neither get nor afford this big porterhouse regu- 
larly. Do the best you can with your own butcher. His meat 
is not fit to eat. Tell him so. He knows it. But it is up to the 
demand. That is what he is after. When you go down town 
you get where they have to have better meat. Never buy mut- 
ton far from the centre of the city, under any circumstances. 
Have your husband go into a shop where the sides hang. You 
want a young wether with three inches of fat on the outside. 
You want no bucks. The buck is high over the shoulders — a 
regular hump. No real wether ever grows high there. You 
don't want any ewe, either. Cut from the ribs about as many as 
you can eat — a hungry man can eat two or three. The butcher 
will clip off an inch of the fat. You will have a time of broil- 
ing it, for it will burn like oil. But, on the table, it is the 
healthiest meat in the world. It comes close to being the best 
tasting. The bad popular idea of mutton comes from the fact 
that the lean bucks all go toward the limits of the city to be 
sold. After a meal of gilt-edged broiled mutton, your husband 
will think this is quite a good world to get along in. 

As for yourself, you thrive best on poultry. Have it often. 
You are, probably, not a bad judge of a chicken. Twist the 
wing. See that the butcher has not already twisted it before 
you ! Never, my dear friend, trust your stomach with the diges- 
tion of pork. It is a meat unfit for female food. Use lard 
about as much as you use calomel. Cake is not so dyspeptic as 
pies. I think the butter makes the difference. Avoid frying 
for weeks at a time ; make your own experiments in this matter. 
Our fresh water fish are the very best. In little lakes they get 
bad in July. In cold lakes they keep good longer. Keep 
honey, dried peaches, and prunes on hand, to regulate your 



356 



MKS. OWENS COOK BOOK 



bowels. Some people can eat neither milk nor cheese, nor eggs 
(except in March). Experiment with them. I have great 
doubts about tomatoes being fit for anything, except flavoring 
for gravies. I do not like the way they " turn " a silver spoon. 
People with the piles must not eat tomatoes at all. For centu- 
ries they were considered poisonous, and I guess they are. 
Cider is a magnificent thing for bad livers, catarrh, and other 
troubles which come from or cause bad action of the bowels. 
You see I mix medicine with meals; it cuts down doctors' bills. 
It may strike you that I have laid out a costly schedule. You 
must, therefore, be the more economical elsewhere. I have 
calculated on shaving oflf a little from physic and tonic, in order 
to put it on the porterhouse and mutton chops. Physic and 
tonic come high. Think how much longer your husband will 
live on first-class food! Waste of such materials can have no 
fitting apology. 

JOHN McGOVEKN. 



RELATION OF WEIGHTS TO MEASURES. 



Wbeai Flour, 
Corn Meal, 
Graunlated Sugar, - 
Dry Brawn Sugar, - 
Good Firm Butter, - 

EggB, 

liaisiBB, 



3 cups make - 1 pound. 

314 cups make - 1 pound. 

1 large coffee cup makes ^ pound. 

1 large coffee cup makes 54 pound. 

1% cups pressed down, 1 pound. 

10 make 

1 cup makes about 
4 large tablespoons equal 1 wine-glass. 
8 large labltepoons equal 1 gill. 
2 gills are - - Vt pint. 

2 pints are - ■ - 1 quart. 



1 pouna. 
% pound. 



BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Mm. Wm. y. Carroll. 

To one quurt of blaekuerry juice add one pcir.Kl white sugar, 
one tablespoon each of cloves, allspice, cinna;yion and nutmeg. 
Boil all together fifteen minutes, add one wineglass brandy or 
whisky. Bottle while hot, cork and seaL 



GAME. 



Soiips, - - - - - - J5P Winged Game, - - j6d 

Four-Footed Game, - ^6i Frogs and Terrapin, ^^2 

PREFATORY REMARKS. 

For convenience, I have inserted " Green Turtle 
Soup " and " Frogs and Terrapin " in this chapter, 
and have placed the recipes alphabetically under the 
above headings. 

Of course, there is no absolute rule for cooking. 
I have selected, from many sources, what I consider 
will be best received by the generality of ladies. 
The best variety possible is presented in the space 
allotted to the subject, and I feel confident that my 
readers will regard as plain common sense the direc- 
tions here given. 

My correspondence, to gain all the information 
possible on this subject, has elicited various opin- 
ions from many excellent cooks. 

For instance, one lady says: "I find it safe, gen- 
erally, to parboil wild meat, with a small pinch of 
soda in the water." 

Another one writes: " Of one thing I am certain, 
and that is, that game should never be parboiled." 

Another lady says: "I think wild meat should be 
soaked a short time in weak saleratus water." 

And still another one says: "If wild ducks and 
prairie chickens are skinned, the necessity for par- 
boiling is removed, for the skin is the tough part." 

Very many good cooks unite in this, that, when- 



358 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

ever practicable, game should be cooked without 
washing-. Wiping with a damp cloth is deemed 
sufficient. If found necessary to wash, they do it 
as quickly as possible, and wipe dry. Game should 
never remain in water a moment longer than is 
essential to perfect cleansing, according to their 
theory. 

A free current of air is very advantageous. A 
damp atmosphere is destructive to animal food. 

After poultry or birds are dressed, hang them up 
by the head, not in the sun, but in a cool place. A 
piece of charcoal put into each bird will guard 
against tainting for several days. This is especially 
the case in warm weather, and almost a necessity. 
Even if they become tainted, it said that they can 
be restored to sweetness by being kept in sweet 
milk twenty-four hours. I have never had occasion 
to test this. The flavor of game is heightened by 
keeping it several days before cooking. 

When venison is hung up it should be looked at 
and wiped off whenever it has gathered moisture. 
A thorough dusting with black pepper will preserve 
it from flies. Ginger will answer the same purpose. 

Bear and buffalo meats are cooked substantially 
the same as beef or venison. 

Dark meat is usually served rare; light meat, 
well cooked. 

To the Hon. MoNROE HEATH, ex-Mayor of Chi- 
cago, I am deeply indebted. He knows from per- 
sonal experience how to kill, dress, cook, and serve, 
in the daintiest manner, nearly everything treated 
of in this entire chapter, and has very kindly revised 
it for me. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 359 

SOUPS. 

GAME SOUP. 

In the game season, a good soup may be prepared 
at very little expense, and by using the remnants 
of different dishes a very agreeable flavor will be 
ifnparted. Take the legs and bones, break up, and 
boil in some broth for. an hour, putting in all the 
meat from the breasts of birds left over. Boil four 
or five turnips and mash them fine. Then pound 
the meat up fine and pass through a fine sieve. Put 
the broth a little at a time through the sieve. Heat 
it all up together in the soup-kettle. Do not boil. 
Mix the yolks of three or four eggs with half a pint 
of cream. Stir into the soup and remove just as it 
comes to a boil, as boiling curdles it. 

GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 

Chop the entrails (some cooks do not use the en- 
trails), bones, and coarse parts of the turtle meat, 
and put into a gallon of water, with a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a couple of onions, pepper and salt. This 
must cook slowly but constantly for four hours. In 
the meantime simmer the fine parts of the turtle 
and the green fat for an hour in half a gallon of 
water. This must be added to the above soup after 
straining the latter, at the end of the four hours' 
boiling. Thicken slightly with browned flour, then 
simmer all together for another hour. If there are 
eggs in the turtle boil them alone in clear water for 
three or four hours and add to the soup before serv- 
ing. If not, use force-meat balls. At the last add 
the juice of one lemon. For the force-meat balls, 
take the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, rubbed fine 
with six tablespoons of chopped turtle meat, a table- 



360 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

spoon of butter and, if you have it, a little liquor of 
oysters. Season with mace, a pinch of cayenne, 
half a teaspoon o white su<^ar. Bind together with 
a raw egg. Roll into small balls, dip into beaten 
egg, then rolled cracker, fry in butter, and drop into 
the soup as directed above. 

BROWN RABBIT SOUP. 

Cut at the joints, dip in flour and fry in butter 
until a nice brown. Add three onions, also fried 
brown. To two large rabbits allow fully three 
quarts of water. Pour it over boiling hot. Add a 
teaspoon of salt; skim frequently and carefully until 
it looks clear. Add a sprig of parsle)^, three or four 
carrots, and season with whole peppercorns. Boil 
gently for half a day. Season more highly if neces- 
sary. Strain, let cool, skim off the fat. Heat it 
afresh for serving, and send to the table with crou- 
tons — as described on page 8. 

RABBIT SOUP. 

Sometimes rabbits or hares will be found very 
tough. They can then be made into soup that is 
excellent. Crack the bones of two rabbits and boil 
with a pound of ham or salt pork, cut up small. 
Chop three small onions and put in, with a bunch 
of sweet herbs. Stew in three quarts of water 
slowly for three hours. Season and strain. Thick- 
en slightly with browned flour, wet with cold water. 
Add tablespoon of catsup and teaspoon of Worces- 
tershire or some other kind of sauce. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 361 

. FOUR-FOOTED GAME. 

HARE— JUGGED. 

After casing- the hare, wipe off all loose hairs care- 
fully, cut at the joints and fry brown. Season well 
with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, 
cloves, grated lemon peel, and a sprig of thyme. 
Put a layer of this into a bean-pot or a small-necked 
jar, alternately with a layer of thin slices of bacon, 
until all are used. Pour one cup of water over, cover 
closely and set in a kettle of water. Boil three 
hours, or longer if the hare is old and tough. Skim 
out when done and strain the liquor. Take one 
tablespoon of flour and one tablespoon of butter 
and mix in a saucepan over the fire, and add the 
strained liquor. Let boil up and pour over the hare 
in a deep dish. 

OPOSSUM. 

Clean like a pig — scrape, not skin it. Chop the 
liver fine, mix with bread crumbs, chopped onion, 
and parsely, with pepper and salt; bind with a beaten 
egg and stuff the body with it. Sew up, roast, baste 
with salt and water. In order to make it crisp, rub 
it with a rag dipped in its own grease. Serve with 
the gravy made of browned flour. Serve it whole 
on a platter, and put a baked apple in its mouth. It 
is very nice stuffed with apples peeled and sliced. 
Opossum may be made into a very palatable stew. 

RABBIT BOILED— LIVER SAUCE. 

Truss for boiling; cover with hot water and cook 
gently about forty-five minutes if of medium size. 
in another vessel, boil the liver, for ten minutes, 
mince very fine and put it back into the water in 



362 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

which it was boiled, season with butter, pepper, 
and salt, and thicken with flour, and pour over 
the rabbit. 

Onion sauce is preferred by some, in which 
case boil some onions (three or four) in a sepa- 
rate vessel; chancre the water once, and when done 
drain and chop them. Then put them in a sauce- 
pan, sprinkle with one tablespoon of flour, put in 
butter size of an egg, with one cup of milk. Let 
it boil up and pour it over the rabbit 

RABBIT— FRIED. 

After skinning, cleaning, and wiping dry, fry 
the same as chicken. Unless known to be young 
and tender, it is a surer way to parboil before 
frying. 

RABBIT PIE. 

After cleaning, cut up like chicken and stew 
until tender. Then put into a deep pan with sides 
lined with pie paste. Thicken the gravy and add 
butter, pepper, and salt. Pour over and cover with 
crust. Bake about twenty minutes. 

RABBIT— ROASTED. 

After skinning and cleaning, lay in salt water 
for an hour. Parboil the heart and liver, mince 
them with a slice of fat salt pork, and add thyme, 
onion, pepper, and salt, and bread crumbs moist- 
ened with the water in which the giblets were 
boiled. Mix with a beaten egg. Stuff the rabbit 
with this, sew up, rub the body with butter or 
tie over it a few slices of fat pork. Put a cup 
or more of water into the drippingpan. Baste 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 363 

often. An hour will generally suffice for cooking 
it. Dredge with flour before taking it from the 
oven, and pour melted butter over. When browned 
remove to a hot dish, and to the gravy add lemon 
juice, a bit of minced onion, and one tablespoon 
of flour made smooth with the same quantity of 
butter. Let boil up and serve in a gravy dish. 
Garnish the rabbit with slices of lemon and sprigs 
of green parsley. 

RABBIT STEW. 

Skin, clean, and cut in small pieces a couple of 
rabbits. Let stand in cold salted water for an 
hour. Then put on to cook, in enough cold water 
to cover them, and boil till tender. Season with pep- 
per and salt, and stir one tablespoon of butter with 
two tablespoons of flour made smooth into the gravy. 
Lemon juice is an improvement. If onions are 
liked, they may be boiled in a dish by themselves 
and added to the gravy before dishing up. Serve 
rabbits and gravy together on a large platter. 

RACCOONS— 5^^ Woodchucks. 

SQUIRREL PIE. 

Clean one pair of squirrels and cut into small 
pieces. Wipe off with a damp cloth. Put into a 
stewpan with two slices of salt pork, and water 
to nearly cover. Cook until half done. Season 
it well and thicken the gravy. Pour into a deep 
dish, cover with pie crust, and bake thirty min- 
utes. 

Squirrels may be fried, broiled, or stewed, like 
chickens or rabbits. 



364 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

VENISON— ROAST. 

The haunch is the choicest piece for roasting. 
Wipe off with a damp cloth. Rub over with 
butter or lard. Then cover the top and sides 
with a thick paste of flour and water half an inch 
deep. Lay a coarse paper over all and put to 
roast with one cup of water in the dripping pan. 
Keep the oven well heated. Baste every fifteen 
or twenty minutes with butter and water. Twenty 
minutes before serving" remove the paste and pa- 
per, and dredge with flour, and baste with butter 
until of a light brown. Pour in one pint of water 
and make a thickened gravy as for roast beef or 
pork, adding a pinch of cloves, nutmeg, cayenne, 
and a few blades of mace. Strain before sending 
to table, and two tablespoons of currant jelly may 
be added if you have it. Have dishes very hot. 

The shoulder is also a good roasting piece, but 
need not be covered with the paste as in the above 
directions. 

VENISON SAUSAGE. 

Take equal quantities of old salt pork and bits 
of raw venison. Chop fine. To each pound of 
chopped meat add 3 teaspoons of sage, i| of salt, 
and I of pepper. Make into flat cakes and fry 
with no other fat, as that in the sausage is suffi- 
.cient. 

VENISON STEAKS. 

These take longer to cook than beef, but should 
be similarly broiled or fried. When done, place 
in a hot dish with a gravy made of butter the size 
of an Qgg for each pound of steak, mixed with a 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 365 

spoon of flour, and properly seasoned with pepper 
and salt. Jelly may be added if desired. Before 
serving, cover the platter and set in a hot oven 
for five minutes or less. Have the plates well 
heated, as venison cools quickly. At table, it is 
nice to place a bit of jelly on each piece served. 

VENISON STEW. 

Cut the meat into small pieces. Inferior cuts 
will make a very good stew. Boil for a couple of 
hours. Season to suit the taste. Add potatoes 
peeled, and if large, cut in two. When done, 
skim out, thicken the gravy and pour over. 

WOODCHUCKS AND 'COONS. 

Mt^. E. £. Bower, Erie, Pa. 

In Pennsylvania, woodchucks are called ground- 
hogs and esteemed a great delicacy, and really a 
fine fat one well roasted is not to be despised. 
To cook either ground-hogs or 'coons, parboil for 
thirty minutes, to take off the wild smell; then 
rub well with salt and pepper, and roast in a quick 
oven at first, allowing the fire to cool gradually. 
Thirty minutes to every pound is a safe rule. 
Young animals need no parboiling. Where fire- 
places are used, people cook them on a spit over 
a drippingpan. — 

Note. — It is said that if a cup of vinegar be put 
on the stove while cooking onions, their smell will 
not be noticed. 

It is the common custom of cooks to give claret 
as one of the adjuncts in cooking wild meat. It 
is a mere matter of taste. It can be made very 
palatable without it, and I prefer not to give it. 



366 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

WINGED GAME. 

CRANES AND HERONS. 

May be broiled or stewed, like chickens. They 
make a very fine soup. Dress and joint five or six 
and put into a pot with an equal weight of beef cut 
small; slice one onion (or more); add a slice of salt 
pork; water to cover. When tender add, if you 
have them, about a pint of oysters with their liquor. 
Crabs cleaned and quartered may be substituted. 
Let simmer till done. Then just before serving stir 
in one or two tablespoons of gumbo. 

■ DUCKS— CANVAS BACK— ROASTED. 

Pluck, singe, draw, and wipe well. Do not wash; 
let the duck retain its own flavor as far as possible. 
Leave the head on to show its species. Roast 
without stuffing, twenty-five or thirty minutes, in a 
hot oven, after seasoning with pepper and salt. 
Baste with butter and water. A bit of cayenne and 
a tablespoon of currant jelly added to the gravy are 
an improvement. Thicken with browned flour. 

DUCKS— WILD— ROASTED. 

Prepare for roasting the same as any fowl. Par- 
boil for fifteen minutes with an onion in the water, 
and the strong fishy flavor that is sometimes so dis- 
agreeable in wild ducks will have disappeared. A 
carrot will answer the same purpose. Stuff with 
bread crumbs, a minced onion, season with pepper, 
salt, and sage, and roast until tender. Use butter 
plentifully in basting. A half hour will suffice for 
young ducks. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 367 

DUCKS— WILD— STEWED. 

Cut the ducks into joints; pepper, salt, and flour 
them; fry in butter in a stewpan. Then cover with a 
gravy made of the giblets and some bits of lean 
veal if you have it, all minced and stewed in 
water until tender. Add a minced onion or 
shallot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper, 
with a bit of lemon peel. Cover closely and let 
them stew until tender. About thirty minutes will 
suffice. Skim out the ducks; skim and strain the 
gravy, add a cup of cream or milk and a beaten egg, 
thicken with browned flour, and let boil up once and 
pour over the ducks. The juice of a lemon may be 
added, or lemon may be sliced and served on the 
ducks. 

LARKS. 

Clean, wipe dry, brush them over with the yolk 
of egg, roll in bread crumbs and roast in a quick 
oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Baste with but- 
ter and keep them covered with bread crumbs while 
roasting. Serve the crumbs under the birds and lay 
slices of lemon on them. 

PARTRIDGE— BROILED. 

Pick and draw; divide through the back and breast, 
and wipe with a damp cloth. Season highly with 
pepper, salt, a bit of cayenne, and broil over a clear, 
bright fire. It will broil in fifteen or twenty minutes. 
When done, rub over with butter. Serve with 
lemon. 

PARTRIDGE PIE. 

After dressing, divide in halves, rub with pepper, 
salt, and flour, sprinkle in parsley, thyme, and mush- 



368 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

rooms if you happen to have them. Put a sh'ce of 
ham and two pounds of veal cut up small at the bot- 
tom of the bakingdish. Then add the partridges 
and pour over them a pint of good broth or gravy. 
This is for about four birds. If you have no gravy, 
use water with a large spoon of butter. Cover 
with rich piepaste. Leave an opening in the center 
and bake about one hour. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Do not stuff pigeons, but cut them in four pieces; 
parboil and place in layers with egg and pork or ba- 
con, as directed for quail pie. Use plenty of butter to 
make the gravy rich. Bake same as quail pie. 

PIGEONS— POTTED. 

Pluck and clean. Take a cracker, an egg, a piece 
of butter or chopped suet the size of an egg, and a 
pinch of sage or sweet marjoram. Make into small 
balls and put one with a thin slice of salt pork into 
each bird. Lay the birds close together in a pot. 
Dredge well with flour. Put in a good tablespoon 
of butter to six birds. Cover with water. Cover 
the pot and stew slowly for about an hour and a half. 
Less time if young and very tender, and longer if old. 
Serve on a large platter with the gravy. Other 
birds may be potted the same way. 

PILAU OF BIRDS. 

Boil two or three large birds or half a dozen small 
ones with a pound of bacon, in water enough to cover 
well. Season it with salt. When tender take them 
out with a little of the liquor. Into the remainder 
put two pounds of clean washed rice. Cook until 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 369 

done, keeping closely covered. Stir into it a cup of 
butter, and salt to taste. Put a layer of the rice in 
a deep dish. On this lay the birds with the bacon 
in the middle. Add the liquor. Then cover them 
all with the rice that is left. Smooth it and spread 
over it the beaten yolks of two eggs. Cover with a 
plate and bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. 

PLOVER. 

Clean and truss. Lay in a pan and season with 
salt and pepper. Rub over with butter and cook in 
a quick oven. A piece of fat bacon or salt pork laid 
on each one gives a good flavor. Toast some bread 
and put a piece under each bird before it is quite 
done. Baste with butter and water. Take up on a 
hot platter, a bird on each slice of toast, and serve 
together. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS. 

Fry as directed for chickens, or broil like quail or 
partridge. Or cook as on page 51- 

QUAIL— BROILED. 

Clean and split down the back. Wipe carefully, 
season well with salt and pepper, and place on a 
gridiron over a clear, hot fire. Turn, and when done 
lay on a hot dish; butter well, and serve on buttered 
toast. 

QUAIL PIE. 

Clean, truss, and stuff the quail. Parboil for ten 
or fifteen minutes. Line the sides of a deep pan 
with rich piepaste. In the bottom put a couple of 
slices of salt pork or bacon cut into small pieces. 
Then some slices of hard boiled eggs, with butter 



370 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

and pepper. Then the quail with a sprinkling^ 
of minced parsley. The juice of a lemon is an im- 
provement. Put bits of butter rolled in flour over 
the birds, then a layer of slices of egg and bits of 
pork. Pour in the water in which they were par- 
boiled, and cover with the piepaste, leaving an open- 
ing in the center. Bake about an hour. 

QUAIL— STEAMED. 

Steam quail until nearly done, then roast in the 
oven to a nice brown, basting often with melted but- 
ter in water. Serve on buttered toast. Very nice. 

REED BIRDS, RAIL BIRDS, AND SNIPE. 

May be cooked precisely as plovers, or they may 
be broiled and served with toast the same as quail 
or partridge. 

WOODCOCK. 

Many excellent cooks do not draw them, asserting 
that the trail should be left in, even by those who do 
not like it, and removed after it is served. They 
claim that the flavor of the bird is much impaired 
if the trail is taken out before cooking. It looks 
rather plausible, as they are said to live by suction,, 
have no crop, and a stomach only the size of a bullet. 
The trail, head, and neck are regarded as great deli- 
cacies by epicures. For my own eating, I could not 
cook them without drawing. 

TO BAKE. 

Divide down the back, put in a pan in the oven, 
salt and pepper them and baste with melted butter. 
Garnish with slices of lemon. 



AND USEFUL HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 37 1 

TO BROIL. 

Split down the back, wipe with a damp cloth, and 
broil over a clear fire. Rub on butter, pepper and 
salt when done. Serve on a hot platter and help 
each person to half a bird. 

TO ROAST. 

Clean, draw, and stuff with simple bread crumbs 
well seasoned with pepper and salt and moistened 
with sweet cream or melted butter. Sew them up. 
Tie a small, thin slice of salt pork around the bird. 
Place in a drippingpan and baste with butter and 
water. Put slices of buttered toast under them be- 
fore taking up, and serve with them. 



GENERAL REMARKS. 

If hares and rabbits are young, the ears tear easily 
and the claws are sharp and smooth. They will 
keep good a week or two in cold weather. 

In venison the fat should be bright, clear, and 
thick; the cleft of the hoof close and smooth. The 
more fat there is, the better the quality of the meat. 

Ducks with plump breasts and pliable feet are best. 

Partridges with dark-colored bills and yellow legs 
are best, and if allowed to hang a few days are much 
finer in flavor, and more tender. 

Pigeons to be good will not bear being kept, as the 
flavor leaves them. So they must be eaten fresh. 

Plovers are scarcely fit for any cooking but roast- 
ing. They should feel hard at the vent, as that in- 
dicates their fatness. If very stale, the feet will be 
very dry, and they should be discarded. 



372 MRS. OWENS' COOK BOOK 

FROGS AND TERRAPIN 
FROGS. 

Skin them as soon as possible. The hind legs are 
usually the only part used, although the back is 
good eating. Fry or broil the same as chickens — 
or fricassee them. 

TERRAPIN OR TURTLE. 

Plunge the turtle while yet alive into boiling 
water. When life is extinct, remove the outer skin 
and the toe nails. Then rinse well, and boil in salted 
water until perfectly tender. • Then take off the 
shells, remove the gall and sand bag carefully, and 
clean the terrapin thoroughly. Next cut the meat 
and entrails into small pieces, saving all the juice, 
put into a saucepan without water and season to 
your taste with salt, cayenne and black pepper. Add 
for each terrapin, butter the size of an egg made 
smooth with a tablespoon of flour. A few table- 
spoons of cream should be added last. Many per- 
sons add the yolks of three or four hard boiled eggs 
just before serving. While cooking it should be 
stirred very often — and must be dished up and eaten 
very hot. 



INDEX. 



Croutons 8 

German soup balls 8 

Noodles 8 

To clarify soup 14 

Soup stock 15 

Bean soup 12 

Brunoise 16 

Brown fish 20 

Chestnut 13 

Chicken 12 

Cream of spinach 19 

Confederate army 13 

Economical 10 

Game 359 

Giblet 13 

Gumbo 9 

Julienne 20 



SOUP. 

8 Louisiana Plantation. .. . I2 

8 Mock turtle 14 

8 Onion 1 1 

Oxtail 12-17 

Pea 16 

Pea hull II 

Potato II 

Pottage a la Reine 17 

Puree of fish 18 

Puree of game 18 

Rabbit 360 

Rice 91 

Tomato ic 

Turtle, green 359' 

Very cheap 16 

White 9 

Wrexham 19 



FISH. 



Baked fish 23-28 

Boiled fish 22 

Boiled, Hollandaise sauce 29 
Boiled Pike, Qgg sauce. . 27 

Broiled fish 31 

Chowder, fish 21 

Chowder, clam 24 

Codfish balls 24 

Codfish stew 23 

Croquettes, fish 29 

Eels 22 

Fried fish 22 



Fried smelts 28 

Fritters, clam 25. 

Frogs and Terrapin. .22-372 

Halibut 27 

Lobster salad 26 

Mackerel, fresh 25 

Mackerel, salt 25-26 

Pickled fish 26 

Potted fish 31 

Stuffing for fish 23 

Shadroe, with oysters ... 28 
Turbans of fish 30 



OYSTERS. 



Cream 35 

Fricassee 32 

Fried 34 

New way of cooking. .. . 36 

Omelet 38 

Pickled 36 

Pie 38 

Roast, Mobile 33 



Sauce, with Turkey 35 

Soup 33 

Steamed 34-35 

Scalloped 35 

Stew 34 

Stew, Virginia 33 

Stewed with celery 37 

Stuffed .' 36 



INDEX. 



EGGS. 



Baked 40 

Boiled 39 

Broiled ham and eggs.. 40 

Chowder 41 

Fried 41 

Fried ham and eggs.... 40 

Omelet 42-43 

Omelet celestine 44 

Omelet saccharine 43 

Omelet souffle 43 



Omelet, orange 44 

Panned 41 

Pickled 44 

Poached 41 

Proper way to cook 40 

Salad, hot egg 42 

Scalloped 42 

Scrambled 39 

To color for Easter 45 

To keep 44 



FOWLS. 



Boning, directions for. . . 52 

Chicken, boned 52 

Chicken fricassee $0 

Chicken, fried 50 

Chicken salad 54~55 

Chicken smothered 50 

Chicken stew 48 

Chicken pate 54 

Chicken pie 49 

Chicken pot pie 49 

Cutting up chicken 46 



Duck, curry of 53 

Ducks, roast 51 

German relish 51 

Goose, roast 5 ^ 

Poultry, roast 46 

Prairie chicken 51 369 

Pressed veal or chicken . . 54 

Stuffing for ducks 51 

Suggestions 45 

Turkey, roast 48 

Winged Game 366 



Beef a la mode 

Beef, corned, pressed . . . 

Beef, cure for 

Beef, dried 

Beef heart 

Beef heart equal to tongue 

Beef pickle 

Beef pot roast 

Beef, pressed 

Beef roast 

Beefsteak broiled 

Beefsteak, fried 

Beefsteak round 

Beefsteak with onions.. 

Beef stew 

Beef tongue 

Beef, stuffed and pressed 

Boiled dinner 

Calves' liver larded 

Calves' liver stewed 



MEATS. 

64 Dumplings Rhode Island 78 

79 Game 361 

80 Ham, cold boiled 63 

yy Ham, cure for 80 

66 Ham, to stuff a 62 

66 Head cheese y?) 

80 Kidneys, deviled 71 

59 Kidneys stewed 71 

62 Lamb and green peas... 61 

63 Lamb, blanquette of . . . . 60 
6^ Lamb, leg of, roast 65 

67 Liver 7'^-72 

68 Mutton boiled 61 

67 Mutton chops 70 

66 Mutton macaroni 61 

69 Mutton roast 65 

62 Mock duck 67 

58 Parsnip stew 60 

72 Pigs' feet 79 

72 Pig roast 69 



INDEX. 



Ill 



MEATS— Continued. 

Pork and liver 72 Spareribs 69 



Pork roast 64 

Pork tenderloin 70 

Pork, to keep fresh 78 

Pork pie, English 65 

Tripe fried y/ 

Tripe curried 74 

Tripe potted 74 

Sausages 78 

Sausage, Creole 73 



Souse 70 

Sweet breads 75 yy 

Veal cake /6 

Veal cutlets 70 

Veal loaf 76 

Veal marbled y6 

Veal roast 65 

Veal stuffed y6 

Yorkshire pudding 63 



HASH. 

Beef patties 83 Minced mutton 85 



Corned beef hash 82 

Croquettes, chicken 84 

Croquettes, veal 83 

Fricassee of beef 85 

Meat dumplings 85 

Meat pies 84 



Minced veal 83 

Meat omelet S6 

Philadelphia scrapple... 82 

Ragout 86 

Union hash 83 

Wonders 82 



SAUCES, SALADS, AND CATSUrS. 



Caper butter 91 

Caramel S6 

Catsup, cucumber 92 

Catsup, currant 92 

Catsup, gooseberry ..... 93 
Catsup, tomato. ..... .91-92 

Catsup, walnut 91 

Curry powder 87 

Dressing for cabbage .94-5-6 
Dressing for cold slaw . . 95 

Dressing, lettuce 96 

Green tomato soy 94 

Mustard for table use ... 88 
Salad dressing, French.. 94 
Salad dressing, Mayonaise 94 
Salad, orange 97 



Salad, potato 98 

Salad, Russian 97 

Salmagundi 97 

Sauce, asparagus 89 

Sauce, celery 88 

Sauce, Chili 90 

Sauce, drawn butter 88 

Sauce, Dutch 88 

Sauce, maitre d' hotel. , . 96 

Sauce, mushroom 89 

Sauce, plain white 96 

Sauce, Queen of Oude . . 90 

Sauce Robart 89 

Sauce, Tartar 96 

Spiced currants 93 

Spiced peaches 93 



VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes, Jerusalem ..112 Cabbage cream in 



Asparagus 114 

Beans. Boston baked. . . . 108 
Beans and pork, baked. . 108 

Beans, Lima 107 

Beets 112-113 

Cabbage a la Caulifloweri 1 1 



Cabbage fried no 

Cabbage, with sour creamn i 

Cabbage spiced no 

Carrots, spring n2 

Cauliflower 109 

Egg plant fried 115 



IV 



INDEX. 



VEGETABLES— Continued. 



Egg plant stuffed .... 

Green corn 

Green corn baked . . . 
Green corn patties . . 
Green corn pudding . 
Green corn, to can. . . 

Greens 

Green peas 

Macaroni 

Macaroni and cheese. 

Onions boiled 

Parsnips 

Potato balls 

Potato croquettes . . . 

Potato pudding 

Potato puffs 

Potatoes a la cream . 

Potatoes baked 

Potatoes boiled 



Bread, brown, Pauline's. . 
Bread, brown, Pris'n Miss. 
Bread, brown, Vermont. 

Bread, election 

Bread, Graham 

Bread, Indian 

Bread making, easy. 120 

Bread, milk yeast 

Bread, rye and Indian. . . 
Biscuit, baking powder. . 

Biscuit, Graham 

Biscuit, Kentucky 

Biscuit, Mobile 

Biscuit, raised 

Biscuit, soda 

Biscuit, sour milk 

Cakes, buckwheat 

Cakes, corn-meal 

Cakes, griddle 

Corn-meal cakes . . . 128- 

Crumpets 

Fritters, rice 

Gems, corn 



115 Potatoes cooked dry.... 

105 Potatoes Lyonnaise 

106 Potatoes mashed 

106 Potatoes Parisian 

106 Potatoes quirled 

106 Potatoes Saratoga 

109 Potatoes scalloped 

1 14 Rice 105- 

1 1 3 Sauerkraut 

1 13 Squash 116- 

1 16 Succotash 

1 14 String beans 

102 Tomatoes baked 

102 Tomatoes fried green... 

loi Tomatoes scalloped . . . . 

102 Tomatoes stewed 

loi Tomatoes and rice 

loi Turnips 

99 Vegetable oyster 

BUEAD. 

Gems, Graham 132- 

Hoe cake 

Johnnycake 131- 

Laplanders 

Muffins 

Muffins, corn 

Muffins, hominy 

Muffins, mush 

Muffins, raised I34 ' 

Mush 

Mush, oatmeal 

Pancakes, bread 

Popovers 

Puffs, French 

Rolls 

Rolls, corn-meal 

Rolls, flannel 

Rolls, Saratoga 

Rusk 

Toast, French 

Toast, milk 

Waffles 130- 

Yeast 118-119- 



24 

23 
24 
24 
22 

23 
21 
21 
23 
29 
30 
30 
29 
25 
29 
30 
36 
27 
Z7 
31 
37 
35 
33 



INDEX. 



FIES, DUMPLINGS, AND SHORTCAKES. 



Pie crust 1 39-- 140 

Apple pie 144 

Apple custard pie 148 

Apple pot pie 153 

Apple puffs 154 

Apple dumplings . 153- 154 

Brother Jonathan 153 

Berrry pie 146 

Cherry pie 150 

Cocoanut pie 145 

Cranberry pie 149 

Cream pie 145 

Custard pie 149 

Currant pie 150 

Dewdrop apples 155 

Dried apple pie 143 

Emancipation pie 148 

English currant pie .... 144 
Fried pies 151 



Huckleberry pie 150 

Lemon pie 147—148 

Lemon potato pie 14/ 

Mince pie 140—141 

Minse pie, summer .... 142 

Orange pie i4!> 

Peach pan dowdy 155 

Peach pie . , 149 

Pumpkin pie 144 

Raisin pie 146 

Rhubarb pie 143 

Squash pie 145 

Shortcake, hard winter . 153 

Shortcake, orange 152 

Shortcake, peach 152 

Shortcake, strawberry . . 151 

Sweet potato pie 145 

Tomato pie 142- 143 

Wild grapes for pies . . . 148 



CAKE. 

Relation of Weights to Measures ^ p^g^ 356- 



Baking powder 1 57 

Frosting and icing . 159--160 
Frosting, without eggs , 159 

Glazing for cake 1 59 

I, 2, 3, 4, cake 182 

Almond cake 186 

American Home cake . . 178 

Angels' food 161 

Birthday cake 180 

Black cake 165 

Buckeye cake 183 

Cake without eggs .... 186 
Chocolate cake . . . 162—163 

Coffee cake 160 

Corn starch cake I74 

Cream cake 172 

Cup cake, clove 171 

Cup cake, sister Julia's . 184 

Dakota cake 185 

Delicate cake 181 

Everyday cake 161 

Feather cake 175 



Fruit cake 166—167 

Fruit cake, English . . . 166 
Fruit cake, poverty .... 168 

Fruit cake, village 169 

Gold cake 173 

Graham cake 187 

Graham composition cake 188 

Hollis cake .181 

Jenny Lind cake ..... 183 

Lady cake 1/2 

Lemon cake 180 

Love cake 165 

Marble cake I74 

My wedding cake 170 

Plymouth cake 183 

Porcupine cake 176 

Poundcake, Presidential 179 

Pound cake, prize 179 

Pound cake, Quaker . . . 177 

Pound cake, soda 178 

Pound cake, white 178 

Pork cake 170 



VI INDEX. 

CA KE-- Co at in ued. 

Raisin cake i68 Surprise cake 176 

Roll jelly cake 184 Walnut cake 182 ' 

Silver cake 173 Watermelon cake 176 

Snowball cake 177 White cake, Cora Bell's . 164 

Spice cake 171 White citron cake 186 

Sponge cake 173-184 White fruit cake 164 

Sponge cake, molasses . . 185 White sponge cake 185 

LAYER CAKE. 

Almond nagout 188 Lemon jelly cake 195 

Caramel cake 193 Pineapple cake 189 

Chocolate cake 191 Orange cake 196 

Confectioner's cake 194 Ribbon cake 193 

Cream cake, Belvidere ..196 Rocky mountain cake ..191 

Cream cake, cocoanut . . 190 Strawberry cake 191 

Dolly Varden cake 189 Variety cake 195 

Fig cake 191 White Lincoln jelly cake . 190 

Gilt edge cake 194 White mountain ditto. . . 192 

Ice cream cake 192 

COOKIES. 

Christmas cookies 197 Windom cookies 198 

German cookies 197 Lincoln cookies 198 

Ginger cookies 200-1-2 Hunt cookies 199 

Ginger jumbles 202 MacVeagh cookies 199 

Ginger snaps 202 Kirkwood cookies 199 

Garfield cookies 198 James cookies 199 

Arthur cookies 198 Molasses cookies 200 

Blaine cookies 198 Sea foam 200 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Amalgamation 204 Lazy doughnuts 204 

Andover wonders 205 Raised doughnuts 203 

Doughnuts 203-204 Rissoles 205 

Fried cakes 204 Spanish ruffs 205 

without shortening. 205 

GIXGEB CAKES. 

Gingerbread 206-207 Soft molasses cake 208 

Ginger drops 208 Spice cakes 208 

Old-fashioned gingerbr'd 206 Training-day gingerbr'd 207 

Soft gingerbread 207 

3IISCEL LANEO US. 

Chocolate comfits 211 Cream puffs 213 

Cocoanut comfits 212 Drop sponge cake 209 

Cream cake 210 Edinboro' cheese 214 



INDEX. 



Vll 



TIISCELLANEO US—Cotitin ued. 

Florentines 213 Scalloped cheese 216 



Fondu 215 

Fritters 217 

German coffee cake 210 

Hermit cakes 212 

Knickerbocker crullers. .211 

Maccaroons 214 

Molasses tea cakes 210 



Seed cakes 212 

Sugar kisses 215 

Tea cakes 209 

Thin bread and butter . .216 

Vanities 211 

Varieties 213 

Welsh rarebit 215 

Widows' cake 210 



Ragamuffins 211 

CUSTABDS, CCES. AND CREAMS. 



A chartreuse of oranges. 224 
Almond blanc mange . . .225 

Angel cream 222 

Apple cream 223 

Baked custard 228 

Bavarian cream 220 

Chocolate ice cream . . . .219 

Charlotte Russe 225 

Coffee cream 219 

Cream Charlotte 223 

Floating island 227 

Fruit blanc mange 226 

Fruit creams 221 

Ice cream 218 

Isinglass blanc mange. . .226 



Lemon honey 228 

Lemon ice 229 

Oak Park cream 222 

Orange cream 219 

Orange ice 229 

Oriental cream 220 

Pineapple cream 228 

Pineapple water ice 229 

Royal French cream. . . .221 

Souffle vanilla 226 

Strawberry cream 220 

Tapioca cream 223 

Vanilla cream 219 

Velvet cream 222 

Whipped cream 223 



Lemon extract 229 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Beehive sauce 230 Jelly sauce 232-233 

Cream sauce 233 Liquid sauce 231-232 

Hard sauce 231 Vinegar sauce 232 

rUDDIXGS. 

Apple pudding 234 Boiled Indian 238 



Apple fruit 234 

Apple tapioca 234 

Apple sago 234 

Baked Indian 237 

Baked suet 237 

Baking-day 235 

Baroness 233 

Batter 235 

Bird's nest 235-236 

Boiled bread 239 



Buckeye 239 

Cabinet 239 

Cassava 240 

Cassel 236 

Cream tapioca 241 

Cocoanut 241 

Cottage 241 

Currey 242 

Hen's nest 242 

Kiss 242 



via 



INDEX. 



P UDDINGS-- Continued. 

Minute 243 Rich tapioca 247 



My favorite 243 

Old English Plum 243 

Orange 244 

Pineapple pudding 245 

Plum duff 245 

Puff 246 

Queen of puddings 246 

Rice Handy Andy 246 

Rice, without eggs 246 

FAMILY BEVERAGES. 



Rolled pudding 247 

Sago 247 

Sally Lunn 248 

Snow Balls 248 

Snow pudding 248 

Suet pudding. . .238-249-250 

Thickened rice 250 

Wash-day pudding 250 



Blackberry wine 261 

Bottled soda water 255 

Breakfast cocoa 254 

Cocoa shells 255 

Coffee 252 

Coffee for festivals 253 

Corn beer 256 

Cream beer 256 

Cream nectar 262 

Cream soda 258 

Currant wine 260 

Egg chocolate 254 

Elderberry wine 261 

Ginger pop 257 

Ginger wine 262 



Iced tea 254 

Imperial 255 

Lemon beer 258 

Orange syrup 260 

Pineapple syrup 260 

Premium chocolate 254 

Portable lemonade 259 

Raspberry nectar .255 

Rhubarb wine 261 

Sham champagne 259 

Spruce beer 257 

Strawberry sherbet 259 

Sugar beer 256 

Tea 251 

Vienna coffee 253 



Home brewed beer 258 

riiESEB VES AND JELLIES. 

Apple butter 266 Crab apple jelly 276 



Apple croutes 269 

Apple jelly 267 

Apple jelly for layer cake278 

Apple marmalade 272 

Apple meringue 269 

Apple preserve 265 

Baked sweet apples 268 

Boiled apples 268 

Canned pumpkin 279 

Canned small fruits 264 

Canning in glass jars .... 264 

Citron preserves 271 

Compote of apples, baked267 
Cooking apples 266 



Crab apple preserves. . . .270 
Cranberry preserves . . . .275 

Cranberries 279 

Currant jelly 277 

Damson plum preserves. 276 

Dried apple jelly 278 

Dried apple sauce 279 

Fried apples 269 

Gelatine jelly 278 

Grape jelly 271 

Grape preserves 270 

Jam 263 

Jellied apples 268 

Lemon butter 265 



INDEX. ix 

PRESEBVES AND JELLIES— Contiuued. 

Michigan fruit jellies . . .267 Preserved melon rinds . .271 

Peach marmalade 272 Quince marmalade 273 

Peach preserves 275 Quince preserves 272 

Pear preserves 275 Strawberry preserves . . .270 

Plum butter 273 To keep grapes fresh . . .279 

Plum tomato preserves. .276 Wild plum jelly 274 

Preserved cherries 275 Wild plum marmalade . .274 

Preserved orange peel. . .274 Wild plum preserves. . . .273 

PICKLES. 

Cauliflower 284 Plums, grapes or peaches 290 

Cherries 283 Red cabbage 284 

Chow chow 287 Ripe cucumbers 289 

Cucumbers 281-282 Silver skin onions 283 

Green tomatoes .... 284-285 String beans 282 

Higdom 285 Sweet crabapples 290 

Jackson pickles 285 Sweet cucumbers. . .288-289 

Mangoes 286 Sweet tomatoes 288 

Mixed pickles 288 Walnuts 283 

Nasturtions 283 Watermelon rinds 289 

Piccalilli 286 Whole pears 290 

r IX EG Alt. 

Apple 292 Honey 291 

Clover bloom 291 Potato 292 

Currant 292 

CONFECTIONER Y. 

Butter scotch 295-296 Iced currants 298 

Chocolate caramels 294 Lemon taffy 297 

Chocolate cream candy. 297 Maple caramels 294 

Chocolate cream drops. .298 Mock Nongat 296 

Cocoanut caramels 295 Molasses candy 293 

Cream candy 295 Peach paper 298 

Delicious tomato figs... 297 Snow candy ...295 

Fruit candy 296 

PICNICS AND LUNCHES. 

Suggestions 299 

THE LAUNDRY. 

A few plain truths 300 How to starch shirts. . .309 

Ammonia for silk 307 How to iron a shirt 310 

A recipe worth $1,000.. 301 How to fold a shirt 311 

British enamel for shirts 304 How to wash blankets . .304 

Comforter shams 312 Liquid bluing 303 

Glue for black dresses ... 306 Oxgall soap 305 



X INDEX. 

THE LAUNDli V— Continued. 

Patent washing soap . . .302 To reniove grease spots. 308 

To bleach 306-309 To renovate black silk. .312 

To clean laces 307 To renew black woolens. 306 

To make blue a fast color 308 To wash calico 305 

To preserve wash tubs . . . 309 To wash lace mitts 307 

To remove iron rust . . . .307 To wash linen suits 308 

To remove mildew 306 Towels — colored borders 305 

SICK IIOOM AND NURSERY. 

Blackberry cordial 356 Nursing bottles ....314-322 

Burns 317 On the care of the ear . .319 

Care of babies 322 Piles 320 

Cough syrup 320 Poison antidote 321 

Croup 315 Rheumatism 315 

Cuts or bruises 313 Sleeplessness 319 

Earache 314 Small-pox — scarlet fever. 3 18 

Female weakness 319 Stimulating sponge bath 325 

Hydrophobia 315 Sure cure for soft corns . 325 

Lime water and milk . . .318 Toothache 316 

Lemonade, &gg 318 To cure frozen feet 317 

Milk for babies 321 To remove moles 313 

Mothers, save yourselves 323 To thread a needle easily 314 

Mustard poultice 321 To use hops in sickness. 319 

Neuralgia 316 Warts 321 

Nosebleed 321 Whooping-cough cure . . 320 

DIET FO It THE S (CK. 

Arrow-root jelly 326 Rennet whey 328 

Baked milk 318 Rice jelly 326 

Beef tea 327 Sago jelly 326 

Beaten egg 327 Tamarind water 327 

Chicken jelly 325 Tapioca jelly 326 

Flaxseed lemonade 327 Mrs. Garfield's beef extr't328 

Indian meal gruel 326 

USEFUL HINTS. 

A cement for rubber. . . .332 Marking ink 335 

Articles for housekeepipg342 Paint for kitchen floor ..339 

A home-made carpet . . .339 Paste that keeps a year .332 

Camphor ice 338 Polished floors 339 

Cologne water 341 Scent powder 338 

Court plaster 341 Silver polish 334 

Fire kindlers 341 To beautify teeth 3^8 

Improved mutton tallow 340 To clean hair brushes. . .331 

Indelible ink 334 To clean paint brushes ..331 

Invisible ink 335 To clean white fur 331 



INDEX. 



XI 



USEFUL Hiy 

To clean willow furniture33i 
To cut rubber easily . . 
To get rid of ants .... 
To get rid of moths. . . 
To gild a horse-shoe. . 
To keep hair in crimp 
To keep lemons fresh . 
To keep up windows. . 
To mend broken china 
To preserve shoe soles 
To preserve stair carpets 340 
To prevent incrustation .334 
To prevent rusting of tin 333 
To purify water 329 



:)3o 
335 
335 

337 
341 

340 
.328 



TS—Conthined. 

To remove glass stoppers333 
To remove old putty. . . .340 
To remove ink stains. . .330 

To revive flowers 342 

To stop a bleeding tooth 341 
To stop burning chimney 336 
To stop frothing of cream336 
To stop honey candying . 333 
To soften chapped hands337 
To take grease from paper330 
Vermin exterminator. . .335 
Vermin in child's head.. 336 
Waterproof blacking. . . .333 
Waxed floors 339 



DYES. 



Anatto 345 

Black 345 

Cochineal red 342 

Composition 345 

Green 344 

Madder red 344 



Orange 345 

Orange for cotton 343 

Purple 343 

Red 346 

Seal brown for woolens . . 346 
Yellow for cotton 343 



BILLS OF FARE. 

Entire for one week .347-8-9 Dinners another week . .350 
Breakfasts another week . 350 



A CHILD'S PAHTY. 

Bill of fare 351 Pyramid paste 351 

Hints 351 Whistles 351 

AN OLD CITIZEN TO A YOUNG WIFE 

A chapter of valuable suggestions 352 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

The relation of weights to measures 356 



Xll 



INDEX. 



GAME. 

SOUP. 



Game soup 359 Brown rabbit soup 360 

Green turtle soup 359 Rabbit soup 360 



FOUR-FOOTED GAME. 



Hare, jugged 361 

Opossum 361 

Rabbit, broiled 361 

Rabbit, fried 362 

Rabbit pie 362 

Rabbit, roasted 362 

Rabbit stew 363 



Raccoons 363 

Squirrel pie 363 

Venison, roast 364 

Venison sausage 364 

Venison steaks 364 

Venison stew 365 

Woodchucks 365 



WINGED GAME. 



Cranes 366 

Herons 366 

Ducks, roasted 366 

Ducks, stewed 367 

Larks 367 

Partridge, broiled 367 

Partridge pie 367 

Pigeon pie 368 

Pigeons, potted 368 



368 
369 



Pilau of birds , 

Plover 

Prairie chickens 369 

Quail, broiled 369 

Quail pie 369 

Quail, steamed 370 

Reed birds, rail birds and 

snipe 370 

Woodcock 370-371 



Frogs 



FROGS AND TERRAPIN. 
, 372 Terrapin or turtle 372 



