Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



566A\ENUS 
120^|PTS 

OfTHE 

JBaron^risse 

I/fFRENCaAND 

Enoush 




illllllllll 

600079373Z 



366 MENUS 



AND 



I200 RECIPES 



OF THE 



BARON BRISSE 



IN FRENCH AND ENGLISH 



TRANSLATED BY 

MRS. MATTHEW CLARK 



SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVINGTON 

CROWN BUILDINGS^ l88, FLEET STREET 

1882 

[All rights reserved\ 



LONDON : 
PRINTED EY GILBERT AND RIVINGTON, LIMITED, 

ST. John's square. 




PREFACE. 



This book, which was already one of the most useful and 
practical of cookery books, has been rendered more complete 
in this edition by many alterations and modifications. 

The bills of fare are written entirely according to our French 
customs. 

Dishes used by both rich and poor are given in their proper 
seasons. 

The recipes have come from many different schools of 
cookery, and are clearly and concisely explained. 

In this edition, as in my previous ones, I have not attempted 
to give recipes for using up scraps, as this art is only useful 
when you run short of provisions ; it is quite a mistake to 
imagine that warming up previously cooked meat is economical, 
as all good transformations must be expensive. The only way 
to use up scraps of meat is to warm them in any of the simple 
sauces, recipes for which will be found further on. 

Scraps of fowl or game must not come under this category, 
as all salmis and marinades have to be made from fowls or 
game which have been previously roasted. 
. Entries of game or fowl must always be warmed up, in the 
same sauce, if required to be used on the second day. 

In cookery, above all things, " Nothing can come of 
nothing." 

The Author. 



TRANSLATOR'S NOTE. 



The first object I had in translating this work, was to please 
my cook ; but having been asked by many of my friends to give 
them the recipes (in English) for some of the celebrated Baron's 
excellent dishes, I determined to allow my poor translation to 
appear in print. May I, under these circumstances, ask the 
forgiveness of all English cooks, if I venture to give them a 
few hints how best to carry out the views of one of the greatest 
of French chefs ? 

Soups. — The reader will at once see that no colouring is 
ever used in French soups. 

Fish, — There are many kinds offish mentioned, which you 
rarely see mentioned in the fishmongers' bills of fare, but they 
can be procured at any good fishmonger's if asked for, such as 
Garfish, Weaver, or Whiting Pollock. Crayfish in excellent 
condition can always be procured at Schell's, in Wigmore 
Street. 

Beef. — Whenever boiled beef is mentioned, it means fresh, 
not salt meat. 

Vegetables. — Celery roots and cardoons, both most delicious 
vegetables, are seldom seen at English dinner-tables, but they 
have been for sale at Martin's, in Covent Gvden, for several 
years past. 

Cooking wine. — Chablis is the white wine generally used for 
cooking in France ; so in the recipes, I hope it will always be 
used, unless Madeira or Sherry is specially mentioned. 

Bills of fare for fast days. — There are so many good dishes 
for our fast days given in this book, that I hope all Catholic 
families will try them, and perhaps pass happier Fridays than 
hitherto. 

Edith Matthew Clark. 



ORDER OF DINNER. 



The art of giving dinners consists in the knowledge of certain 
rules, consecrated by custom and determined by fashion, as 
to the choice of dishes and the reason of their selection, 
according to time and circumstances. 

Every country has its different customs which very much 
depend on the climate and character of its people. 

But I will now only speak about the manner of serving 
dinners in our beautiful country of France, as I feel I need go 
no further for fashions ; all the world acknowledges that it is 
from us that the most varied culinary resources come, and it is 
also in France that the cleverest artists have devoted their 
talents to the preparation of dishes, with which to enrich 
our bills of fare. In fact, it is to us that all fashions of 
different nations are brought to be accepted according to their 
merits, and this exchange of new thoughts and ideas has 
created what is called "fashionable life." 

Decorations of the Dinner-table. 
How to lay the Covers, — The Order of Dinner. 

Formerly dinner-tables were heavily decorated with massive 
bronze, silver, and cut-glass ornaments, which prevented the 
guests from seeing each other across the table, and rendered 
conversation with your opposite neighbour impossible. At the 
present time, these ornaments have been superseded by low 
flower-baskets of either glass or silver. Formerly candelabra only 
held four or five candles, now they hold as many as fourteen 
or fifteen, so we require fewer and have more light 

Each guest must have a tumbler and three Vme-^'s&«a 



vi ORDER OF DINNER. 

placed on his right-hand side, arranged according to the order 
in which the wines are served. First, Madeira; second, 
Bordeaux; third. Champagne. During dinner extra wines 
have special glasses handed with them. Finger-glasses with 
warm water must be handed after crayfish or prawns. 

The dessert plates must always have a doiley and a finger- 
glass placed on them. 

There are two different ways of serving dinner, — the French 
and the Russian. 

The French dinner is divided into three courses, the first com- 
prises soup, small side dishes, fish, and entrees ; the second, 
roasts, vegetables, and sweets ; the third, dessert, each course 
being aU plated oh the table at the same time. 

The Russian fashion is to. place all cold dishes on the table. 
The hot dishes are carved in the kitchen and handed one by 
one to the guests. Each of these arrangements has its advan- 
tages and disadvantages. In the French fashion your dishes 
often get cold before you can eat them, and in the Russian 
the guests are deprived of seeing elegant dishes prettily placed 
on the table. 

However, it lies entirely in the hands of the host to choose 
between these two fashions, according to the capabilities of 
his household. 

Order in which to serve Dinner. 

Soups. 
.Small side dishes, viz. Sardines, Radishes, &a 

Melon. 
Small hot side dishes, viz., Stuffed Olives, Marrow-bones, &c. 

Fish. 
Joint. 
Entr&s of Meat, Fowl, and Game. 
Cold entries. 
Punch Ice. 
(The punch must always be served between "the cold 
entr&s and the game.") 



OJRDER OF m-NNER. vii 



Roast Chickens and Game, 
Salad. 
Dressed Vegetables. 
Sweets. 
After this clear the table of everything, except flowers and 
fruit, and hand cheese, fruits, cakes j bonbons, and ices. 
Coffee and liqueurs are handed in the drawing-room. 

Order in which the AVines are handed. 

During the whole of dinner, well-iced dry and sweet 
champagne must be served. 

After the soup, 
Madeira and Vermouth. 

With the fish. 
Burgundies : eithei* Beaune, Volnay, or Pomard. 
Clarets : either Mouton, Rausan-S^gla, Leoville, Gruand-La- 
rose,Lascombes, Pichon-Longueville, Clos-d'Estournel, or 
Monrose. 

Between the cold entr&s and the game, offer with the 
punch ice either Chateau Yquem or Rhine wine ; these wines 
must only be slightly iced, and served in green glasses. 

With tlie roasts and dressed vegetables. 

Burgundies t La Romance Conti, Clos Vougeot, or Chambertin. 

Clarets : Chateau Lafite, Margaux, Latour or Hautbrion. 

With the sweets. 
Sherry. 

During dessert. 
Sweet wines, such as Malmsey, Muscatel, or Tokay. 

Duties OF the Host to his Guests. 

You must welcome your guests with effusion, so that they 
may feel quite at home before sitting down to dinner. Try if 
possible to introduce your guests to each other before dinner. 



vhl ORDER OF DINNER. 

particularly if you tliink there are two people who will sympa- 
thize with each other. The decision how to place the guests 
at table must always be a troublesome business for the host ; in 
fact, I consider this the most difficult part of giving a dinner, 
if 3rou wish it to go oflf well. The host must always have his 
eye on his guests' plates and glasses, to make sure they have 
all they require ; and if a guest refuses a dish, the host must try 
and persuade him to change his mind. A host whose guest has 
had to ask for anything is a dishonoured man. 

Duties of a Guest towards his Host, 

The first duty of a guest is to be punctual. Unpunc- 
tuality must necessarily cause confusion in the kitchen. 
A dish you have had to wait for is generally good, whilst 
a dish which has had to wait is generally the contrary. 
The result is that the cook gets demoralized, he loses his 
temper at the dinner not being appreciated, and certainly it is 
sufficient cause to discourage the best of chefs. In consequence 
it follows that the cook gets into the bad habit of sacrificing 
the flavour of a dish to the form of serving, finding he has not 
given satisfaction in the cooking, he tries to please the eye. I 
cannot speak too strongly on the affectation of being late for 
dinner, and a good host ought not to wait for one or two people 
who are late whilst five or six others are watching the hands 
of the clock and yawning convulsively, a sure proof of how 
hungry they are. Shame on unpunctual people ! These persons 
are sometimes called inexact, but it is a wrong name to give 
them ; for a really inexact man will arrive one day ten minutes 
before his time and the next day ten minutes after, but unpunc- 
tual people are very exact, they always come late. 

They are generally people who find it is the only means of 
attracting attention, and there are others who think it makes 
them of importance. 

Unpunctuality really means a wish to force people to ac- 
knowledge their slavery to the laws of society. 



PROVISION CALENDAR. 



January. 

Under the first kings of France the year commenced on the 
I St of March, but during Charlemagne's reign it was altered to 
Christmas-time ; after Hugh Capet it was changed to Easter; 
and under Charles IX., the lover of the beautifnl Marie Touchet, 
the anagram of whose name is '* Je charme tout," the ist of 
January became New Year's day ; and it was announced all over 
Paris with a flourish of trumpets that for the future the 31st of 
December would close the year. This was a very good decision, 
for January is worthy of being the first month of the year ; the 
winter season blessed by all gourmands now commences. I 
have before my eyes an engraving of the sixteenth century, 
where the twelve months of the year are represented by as many 
figures. 

January is personified by a man at table ; he is eating like 
Gargantua, and drinking like Bassompierre, who used to drink 
a large butt of wine at one draught to the health of the thirteen 
Swiss cantons ; not like St Macaire of Alexandria, whose saint's 
day is the 2nd of January, for he only used to eat one leaf of 
raw cabbage every Sunday ; but much more like Charlemagne. 
January is without doubt the great month for eating. 

Provisions in season during January, 

All butcher's meat is good, and fattened poultry are in their 
prime. Added to the usual game, we have woodcock, larks, 
geese, and wild duck. The Mediterranean provides us with 
firesh tunny, and all other fish are in perfection. Truffles have 
more perfume than at any other time of the year. The first 
forced asparagus comes into the markets. 



PROVISION CALENDAR. 



February. 

In all the old almanacks February is represented by an old 
man warming himself; be is poking the fire and shivering like 
M^ry, who always wished that the summer would come and 
spend the winter at Marseilles. This legendary figure seems to 
say to us, " Pray make yourselves comfortable." 

During this month indigestion is the order of the day. We 
are in carnival time, which Jules Janin translates as " Adieu to 
flesh ;"• carnival, with all its follies and intemperances. Ava- 
lanches of truffled fowls and pies of the most tempting 
description come* from the sacred places wher6 truffles are 
produced. How Is it possible not to succumb ? The temptation 
is too great ! Much eating conduces to much drinking, and 
this can never be more safely done than before Lent ; the 
military man is able to carry his wine ; the southerner need 
not fear sunstroke, and the northerner does not get into a fog. 
The great gastronomical battle always takes place during Shrove- 
tide; after which the gastronomicar year may be said to close, 
and a little diet is most necessary; Lent might almost be called 
the gourmand's holiday. 

Provisions in season during February, 
We have all the same as in January, with the exception of a 
few more forced vegetables. Butcher's meat continues in per- 
fection. Game is scarcer, but excellent. The plump white 
woodhens are at their best, particularly those from Bains, in the 
Vosges ; and we must not forget to shed a tear for the redbreast, 
which we are deprived of having at our tables by the gentlemen 
of the Museum of Natural History, who have forbidden their 
being killed. ^ These professors have most assuredly never 
tasted this little bird, or they would never have issued this law. 

March. 

Repose is as much the result of a well-organized digestion 
as of a quiet mind. The fatigues of the carnival are. only a 



PROVISION CALENDAR. xi 

dream in March, and Chiteaubriand always told Madame 
Recamier that the most beautiful half of our lives was composed 
of our memories. We must religiously recommence to enjoy 
the rich gifts which are provided for lovers of gastronomy. We 
have, kept Lent amongst our traditions, simply to give historical 
pleasure to St. Matthew, St. Mark, and Pope Telesphore, not 
forgetting the lovers of the God ^^FishJ^ No one looks on Lent 
with sadness. A peasant, who had once been a rich man's 
servant, was heard to say, " I cannot fast, it is far too ex- 
pensive 'i for to fast you must have water game, Geneva trout, 
carp from the Rhine, forced fruit and vegetables, truffles and 
champagne." The peasant was perfectly right, for surely the 
meals of some o\ our most religious devotees cannot be put 
under the category of " Abstinence." 

Provisions in season during March, 

r Butcher's meat is not quite so good, but it is the effect of 
spring weather on the cattle. We have to fall back pn the sea 
for our resources, not by throwing ourselves into it from a rock, 
like the unhappy Sappho, but by welcoming myriads of turbot, 
brill, soles, lobsters, and especially oysters, which are better now 
than at any other time of the year. Hens begin to lay abun- 
dantly, and we have forced asparagus, artichokes, radishes, 
lettuce, peas, French beans, and cauliflowers. 

April. 

Palm Sunday and Easter are generally celebrated in this 
month, and so naturally we come to the Pascal Lamb ; other 
lambs meekly fall under the butcher's knife, and hams present 
themselves under the triple banner of York, Mayence, and 
Bayonne. Three cheers for the pork-butchers ! No wonder that 
even poets have sung in their praises. Butcher's meat begins to 
improve and the first outdoor vegetables, such as asparagus and 
green peas, gladden the hearts of kings and peasants. In contra- 
distinction to tliese earthly constellations, we are rejoiced by 
the sight of a sea star, namelyj mackerel, which is so frequently 



xii PRO VISION CALENDAR, 

dressed maitre d'hotel. Kings have often in vain named towns 
and n]k>numents, but mackerel k la maitre d'h6td is a dish for 
all centuries. The shad leaves the sea, and comes up the rivets, 
to try and console us for the loss of game and good poultry. 

It is true we are still a little under the shadows of Lent, but 
nature is waking us up to more joyous feelings. Vege- 
tables and many-coloured flowers refresh our eyes, and 
we have arrived at the season when our superior feelfegs 
of justice must decide against those of the poultry-yard, as 
regards spring chickens. Mackerel are usudly the avant- 
couriers of sturgeon, which latter fish you can at present buy 
very cheaply in Pg,ris, no doubt from its having caused many 
an indigestion when larded with fillets of eel and anchovy and 
basted with thick crayfish sauce. 

Provisions in season during April. 

The same as in March, with the exception of a few m6re 
vegetables. 

May, 

This month is often called the month of Mary, without any 
prejudice to August, which is not only the special month dedi- 
cated to the Virgin, but also to the Emperor Augustus. During 
May lovers and gourmands are of the same mind, the markets 
try to vie with nature, and deck themselves out gaily with spring 
chickens, young fowls, and the adorable duckling from Rouen and 
Nantes, all of which come to gladden our eyes. Amiable tame 
pigeons, tender as doves, are especially abundant and good just 
now, they mingle so gracefully with green peas and make a most 
delicious dish. Fresh morels make their appearance with their 
sweet perfume and flavour; dear amiable, juicy little morels which 
are so easy of digestion. We receive millions of artichokes and 
early vegetables from the south, and we thank it heartily for our 
anticipated enjoyments, but we must not forget that the finest 
fruit and vegetables come from " lie de France." Welcome 
also to the fresh butter which, thanks, to the young grass, is 
now in perfection. 



PROVISION CALENDAR, xiii 

Provisions in season during May. 

Vegetables are more abundant ; besides which we have 
melons, French beans, cauliflowers, and cucumbers, early 
peas, broad beans, lettuce, and young turnips, forced straw- 
berries, and cherries. 

June. 

Here we are at the last month of spring, and it is specially 
celebrated for its beautiful red fruits and flowers. No one can 
dine better than the bees do this month. Let us follow their 
good example and abandon to a certain extent our carnivorous 
tastes, and enjoy all the savoury and abundant productions 
which are in season. We now have fine young fowls to charm 
us, and their number is further augmented by invaluable 
turkey poults and gallant young cocks, which we must no more 
confound with the interesting capon, than we would compare 
a fine opera singer with one of the choir at the Sistine ChapeL 

Provisions in season during June. 

Under glass : egg-plants, cucumbers, and tomatoes. 

We can no longer count on asparagus, but out of doors there 
are French beans, spinach, Morella cherries, raspberries, 
cherries, strawberries, cvurants, and gooseberries. 

July. 

During this month the poultry-yard is in its full glory. There 
are fattened turkey poults, pullets, and capons. We must not 
forget veal, which is at its prime. Our markets are filled with 
river and sea fish ; but we must begin to examine our fish 
critically fi'om head to tail. The hay having been cut, we are 
enabled to catch crayfish, the little red fish which goes back- 
wards, and which naturalists say is not a fish, is not red, and 
does not go backwards. Now is the time to make use of 
the well-flavoured young rabbits which are in season, and 
with these resources our dinners can be charmingly varied, 
whatever any one may say to the contrary. An experi&\ic^^ 



xiv PROVISION CALENDAR, 

dinner-eater is far too clever to grumble at imaginary 
deprivations during the month of July^ 

Provisions in season during July. 

All vegetables are in season, and potatoes in abundance. 
Figs, apricots, peaches, early pears, and apples are now ripe. 

August. 

August was the Emperor Augustus' favourite month, and no 
one can have been a better judge of a good dinner than he 
was. This emperor had the whole world at his feet, and he 
could well set heat and cold at defiance. Rome was at this 
time not only the capital of the world, but also of gastronomy. 
Everything worth having was brought to Rome, without 
Augustus having to exclaim, as did Louis XIV., "I had 
almost to wait" Large cities become deserted in August on 
account of the great heat, and people either go to the country, 
to the sea-side, or to drink the waters. They go about the 
country and fields, and do not think much about eating. How- 
ever, at the end of the month shooting begins, and gourmands 
are provided with young quail, leverets, and young wild boar. 
Other game is not worth much just yet. 

Provisions in season during August, 
The same as in July. Melons, figs, peaches, plums, pears, 
green almonds, green walnuts, and all kinds of vegetables. 

September. 

Partridge-shooting commences, and at the same time the 
vintages in the wine districts. Now is the season when 
you begin to eat with thought All butcher's meat is good.' 
Game will improve, but we get much which is very good. 
Thrushes have pecked sufficiently at the grapes to make them 
worth eating. Sea fish is abundant, and all fiiiits are in per- 
fection. Truffles and oysters make their appearance very 
timidly. It is better not to be too familiar with them just yet, 
so as to enable your palate to get in order, and also to allow 



: PROVISION CALENDAR. xv 

the sun to put out a few of its fires, after which you will 
enjoy them with the enthusiasm which they deServe. William 
the Conqueror took England for the sake of an oyster-bed, ahd 
Talleyrand governed the world by the aid of truffles. Young 
plover begin to appear, and Guignard says they are the most 
delicate-eatmg bird. Certainly they know the art of making 
them into delicious pies at Chartres. 

Provisions in season during September. 

September eggs are very good, though not to be compared 
to those laid in May. Artichokes are better now than at any 
Other tim^e of the year, and it is time to pick our nuts. 

October. 

It is for poets to make odes to spring, and for gourmands to 
make verses to autumn. Happy month of October, its only 
fault being that it is the last month of the gourmand's holiday. 
During October nature is still beautiful, and all food is good. 
It always brings back to me the happiest reminiscences. I can 
almost feel the sweet air of the woods blow against my face. 
What a jovial season ! We are so gay, so strong, and have such 
an appetite. Thank God, I have always kept my lighthearted- 
ness, vigour, and appetite ; but when I think of some of the com- 
panions of my youth, years gone by, oh ! what phantoms they 
now are, with no digestion, dull eyes, trembling hands that can 
hardly hold either fork or glass ; they may perhaps enjoy fortune 
and honours, but what wouldn't they give to be able to enjoy 
a good dinner as I do ? When Brutus was dying of hunger 
after a defeat, he exclaimed, " Fortune is but a name." 

Provisions injsjason during October. 

Added to pears and apples we now have almonds, medlars, 
and chestnuts. 

November. 

Here we are in cold and foggy November, the gastronomical 
scene has changed ; yesterday we were in the country, to-day 
we find ourselves in town. The actors are the same, onl^ 



xvi PROVISION CALENDAR. 

feeling much strengthened and determined to brave indigestion, 
which after all can only be called *^ Remorse of the stomach." 
We have one recruit in our dulinary army, a very unpretentious 
one, but that does not prevent its assaulting our appetite : I 
mean the fresh herring with soft roe, and eaten with mustard 
sauce. There is a saying that; many people die in November, 
so I advise my friends to have more than one invitation to 
dinner for the same day^ so that if one host fails, they can 
alwajrs have recourse to another to console them. 

Provisions in season during November. 

We are no longer troubled about provisions, our duty is to 
eat them. 

December. 

The festive season has now arrived for those gourmands, 
mostly bachelors who, like Rabelais, always dine out, and show 
their gratitude by not returning the hospitality offered to them. 
The hour of execution has sounded, but what an amount of 
tact is required not to give offence. Who are we to please, 
husband, wife, father-in-law, or mother-in-law ? Try now, you 
husbands, who keep your house with a firm hand, and arrange 
the invitations. I make a bet that the mother-in-law has her 
own way; all I warn the guest to do is not to remind the 
mother-in-law that he remembers her in the comet year of i8i i, 
or that the tail of her pet dog does not curl, for it would be 
sad to end the year with an empty stomach. 

Provisions in season the same as in November. 



ERRATA. 

Page i^tfor Raifort sauce read Horseradish sauce. 
Page xZ^ifor Raifort sauce read Horseradish sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 

JANUARY I. 

Potage k la Cond^. Pur^e of haricot beans k la Cond^. 

Barbue k la bechamel. Brill, bechamel sauce. 

Aloyau au vin de Mad^re. Sirloin of beef, Madeira sauce. 

Poulets rotis k la peau de eoret. Roast fowl k la sucking-pig. 

Artichauts k la barigoule. Stuffed artichokes k la barigoule. 

Baba au rhum. Rum cake or Baba. 

Puree of haricot beans & la Conde. 
Make a pur^ of red haricot beans in the same manner as a 
pur^e of white haricot beans (see 2nd of July). Put some slices 
of fried bread in a soup-tureen, and pour the soup over them. 

Brill, beohaxuel sauce. 
Soak your brill in fresh water for two hours, drain, and cover 
with salt in a deep dish for an hour. Boil in boiling salt and 
water for twenty or twenty-five minutes over a slow fire. Be 
careful that the fish does not break. Hand some bdchamel 
sauce in a sauceboat (see i6th of August). 

Boast fowl a la suckingr-pigr. 

Roast your fowl before a good fire ; when nearly cooked, set 
fire to a lump of lard wrapped up in a piece of paper, which 
hold in a large iron spoon, let the melting lard drop on the 
fowl, this will produce a crackly skin like that of a roast 
sucking-pig. 

Stuffed artichokes & la barigroule. 

Trim and wash your artichokes, fill them with a stuff- 
ing composed of chopped mushrooms, eschalot, parsley, 
and bacon; the stuffing having first been warmed in fresh 
butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. Tie a piece of 
string round each artichoke, and simmer in a saucepan lined 
with bacon ; sprinkle with salad oil, and serve with their own 
sauce reduced. 

1^ 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 2. 

Potage k la julienne. Jnlienne soup. 

AnguUle k la minute. Eels k la minute. 

Selle de mouton gamie de rissoles. Braised saddle of mutton withrissoles 
Mauviettes roties. Roast larks. 

Laitues farcies. Stuffed lettuces. 

Flan de cr^me meringu^e. Open tart of frangipane. 

Julienne soup. 

Cut up equal quantities of turnips, carrots, and celery into 
small strips, warm over a slow fire in a little fresh butter until 
slightly browned; add some strips of leek, lettuce, sorrel- 
leaves, chervil, and a small lump of sugar. Boil these vegetables 
in your stock over a slow fire for an hour ; shortly before serving 
add, if in season, a tablespoonfiil of green peas and a handful 
of asparagus heads. Clear the soup of all fat, and pour into a 
soup-tureen on slices of fried bread crust. 

Eels k la xain^ute. 

Skin your eels and cut into pieces ; boil in salt and water for 
ten or fifteen minutes according to the size of the eels, place 
on a dish, pour some hot maltre d'hotel sauce (see 23rd of March) 
over them, add a few drops of lemon juice, and garnish with 
hot boiled potatoes. 

Braised saddle of mutton with rissoles. 

Braise the saddle of mutton (see braise 28th of May) and 
serve with the gravy reduced, garnish with rissoles (see 25th 
of January). 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 3. 

Potage brunoise aux pites d'ltalie. Branoise soap with Italian paste. 

Morue k la creme. Slices of cod with cream sauce. 

C6tes de boeuf braisees, gamies de Braised ribs of beef with patties, 
petits p&t^. 
Perdreaux rdtis. Roast partridges. 

Marinade de choux-fleuxs. Cauliflower fritters. 

Comp6te de poires. Compdte of pears. 

BmnoiBe soup. 

Slice some cairots, turnips, leeks, celery, and onions, wash and 
drain them ; warm in a saucepan, with some fresh butter until 
brown; add a little stock and reduce to a glaze, pour into 
the necessary quantity of clear soup, and, when boiling, add 
some Italian paste, which has been boiled separately. 

SUoes of cod witli cream sauce. 

Soak a salted cod's tail and boil in boiling water, drain and 
cut it up into slices. Melt half a pound of butter in a sauce- 
pan, thicken with a little flour, and flavour with pepper and a 
very little nutmeg ; when of a proper substance add a pint of 
cream and some finely chopped parsley, stir over the fire for 
five minutes, add the slices of fish, simmer for ten minutes, 
and serve. 

Oanliilower fritters. 

Blanch your cauliflower, break into pieces and dip into 
thick white sauce (see 31st of January), leave until cold, and 
see that they are thoroughly covered with the sauce; take 
each piece separately in a spoon, dip into batter (see 13th of 
November), and fry in boiling lard or butter. Serve very hot, 
garnished with fiied parsley. 



B 2 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JANUARY 4. 

Potage croAte au pot. Soup with crusts of bread. 

Merlans aux fines herbes. Baked whiting with sweet herbs. 

Poulet k la chasseur. Chicken A la chasseur. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Fommes de terre sautees. Fried potatoes. 

Meringues k la Chantilly. Meringues a la Chantilly. 

Soup with crusts of bread. 

Lay slices of toasted crust of bread in a deep dish, and 
moisten with uncleared stock, put the dish into the oven until 
the toast is brown and quite dry ; place the crusts in the soup- 
tureen and pour the necessary quantity of cleared stock over 
them. 

Baked wMtingr with sweet herbs. 
Clean the whiting and lay in a baking dish which has been 
previously buttered and sprinkled with chopped parsley, onion, 
a little salt, and scraped nutmeg. After placing the whiting 
in the dish, pour a little fresh melted butter over them, and 
moisten with equal quantities of white wine and stock. Put 
the dish in the oven, and when the whiting are half cooked, 
turn them carefully; when sufficiently done, turn their juice 
into a saucepan, being careful not to disturb the whiting, add 
some melted butter and flour to the sauce and boil, add a 
few drops of lemon juice when ready and a pinch of white 
pepper. Pour the hot sauce over the whiting, and serve in the 
same dish in which they have been cooked. 

Boast fillet of beef. 

Dress and lard your fillet of beef, and put to soak in salad 
oil with a little salt, pepper, parsley, slices of raw onion, and a 
laurel-leaf, for twelve hours. Roast on the spit for three 
quarters of an hour. Serve with its own gravy, simply adding 
a few drops of vinegar or the juice of a lemon. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 5 



JANUARY 5. 

*" Potage \ la pur^e de carottes. Pur^e of carrots. 

Brochet sauce au beurre d'anchois. Pike, anchovy sauce. 

Noix de veau k Toseille. Chump of veal with sorreL 
Canard sauvage rdti. Roast wild duck. 

Pur^e de lentilles. Pur^e of lentils. 

Souffle vanille. Vanilla souffle. 

Pur6e of carrots. 

Mince the best parts of some large fresh carrots, put them 
in a saucepan with some fresh butter and a pinch of sugar, 
stir until brown, moisten with stock ; add a raw peeled potato, 
and simmer over a slow fire until cooked; pass through a 
tammy, thin the pur^e with stock, and serve. Hand fried 
bread cut into dice separately. 

Pike, anchovy sauce. 

To clean your pike you must first cut a hole in its stomach 
to separate the intestines, and then draw them out through 
the gills ; when the inside is all drawn out, roe and all, boil in 
salt and water, and serve on a napkin. Hand anchovy sauce 
with it (see 5th of April). 

Boast wild duck. 

Truss the duck, roast by a quick fire, and serve with a 
lemon. 

Pur^e of lentils. 

Boil the lentils in salt and water with a small bunch of herbs, 
and some chopped onion and carrot, when boiled pass through 
a tammy and put the pur^e on the fire, adding either some 
fresh butter or a little stock to it. Serve with pieces of fried 
bread. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 6. 

Potage au pain. Bread soup. 

Pi^ce de bc3euf bouulie saace aux Boiled beef and tomatoes, 
tomates. 

Pieds de veau frits. Fried calf s feet 

Li^vre roti. Roast hare. 

Ecrevisses k la bordelaise. Crayfish, bordelaise sauce. 

Giteau des rois. King's cake. 

Bread soup. 

A few minutes before serving, line the bottom of your soup- 
tureen with crusts of bread, pour sufficient boiling clear stock 
over them to make them swell, and add the necessary quantity 
of soup ; never boil the bread in the stock, as it is sure to 
spoil it Hand either grated Parmesan cheese, or the vege- 
tables which have flavoured the stock in a separate dish. 

Chump of veal with sorrel. 

Cook the same as chump of veal k la bourgeoise (see 17th 
of January), and dish up on a pur^e of sorrel. 

Tomato sauce. 

Cut some perfectly ripe tomatoes into halves, simmer for 
half an hour in a saucepan, with some minced lean ham, thjrme, 
laurel-leaves and white pepper, moisten with a tea-cupful of 
stock and simmer until quite thick, pass through a tammy. 
When required for use, a little butter or glaze can be added to 
the sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 7. 



Potage. an macaroni avec parmesan. 

Poularde k la Montmorency. 

Bar grille sauce tartare. 

Gigot roti. 

Pur^e de marrons. 

Omelette souffl^e. 



Maccaroni soup. 

Pullet 4 la Montmorency. 

Broiled bass, tartare sauce. 

Roast leg of mutton. 

Pur^e of chestnuts 

Omelet soufi^. 



Maocaroni soup. 

Soak your maccaroni in salt and water, and boil in a 
little stock : when cooked, put it in the soup-tureen and pour 
the necessary quantity of boiling stock over it. Hand either 
scraped Gruyfere or Parmesan cheese with it. 

Pullet a la Montmorency. 

Dress a large fat pullet, lard the breast and stuff it with foie 
gras, hard boiled eggs, and chopped bacon : cook and brown 
it like a fricandeau (see i ith of May). 

Boast partrldflres. 

After plucking, cleaning, and trussing your partridge cover 
them with slices of bacon, and roast before a quick fire for 
fifteen minutes \ sprinkle with salt five minutes before taking 
off the fire. Serve with brown gravy. 

Cra3rflsli, bordelaise sauce. 

Boil your crayfish in court-bouillon sauce (see i8th of April) 
cook some chopped carrots and onions in butter, reduce to a 
glaze, then add a little white wine and some of the juice of the 
crajrfish, reduce again and pass through a tammy, season 
strongly with parsley and cayenne-pepper : warm your crayfish 
in this sauce, and serve in a deep dish. 



8 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 8. 

Potage k la parisienne. Parisian soup. 

Carpes frites. Fried Carp. 
Poitrines de mouton ^ la sauce Breast of mutton, piquante sauce, 
piquante. 

Dinde r6tie. Roast turkey hen. 

C^leri au jus. Stewed celery. 

Tartelettes aux poires. Pear tartlets. 

Paxisian soup. 

Cut some leeks into pieces about one and a half inches 
long, warm in butter, and when brown put them into your 
stock with some slices of raw potato, and boil well. When 
cooked pour into the soup tureen over some slices of bread. 

Fried carp. 

Clean the carp, then split it open down the back, keep the 
roe ; soak the fish for a few minutes in vinegar with a little 
thyme, parsley, laurel-leaves, nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Flour 
the carp and fry it ; when half cooked, add the roe, also well 
floured, try to keep it firm and a good colour. Serve, sprinkled 
with salt and the roe placed on the carp. Garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Breast of mutton, piqiiazite sauce. 

Dress two breasts of mutton, tie them round with string and 
either boil or broil them : when enough cooked, bone and skin 
them, tie them up again and sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
after which bread-crumb and broil them. Serve with piquante 
sauce (see 26th of June), 

Stewed celery. 

Blanch your celery, boil in stock, and simmer in brown gravy; 
A few slices of truffles add immensely to the flavour. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 9. 

Potage Colbert. Colbert soup. 

Anguille ^ la Sufiren. Eel 4 la 3uffren. 

Poulet k restragon. Chicken with tarragon. 

Quartier de chevreuil r6ti« Roast roebuck. 

£pinards au jus. Stewed spinach. 

Bavaroise au chocolat. Bavarian chocolate cream. 

Oolbert soup. 

Thoroughly blanch the hearts of four or five heads of endive, 
warm them in butter, and add the necessary quantity of stock 
thickened with yolks of ^g% and cream. When done add some 
poached eggs. 

Eel k la Sui&en. 

Skin your eel and lard it with fillets of anchovies and gherkins, 
lay it in a circle in a stew-pan, and cook with marinade sauce 
(see 3rd of December). Put hot coals on the cover of the stew- 
pan j when done, serve, covered with tomato sauce, to which 
add a pinch of cayenne-pepper. 

Cbicken with tarragron. 

Boil some finely chopped tarragon-leaves and take a third 
of them to mix with a stuffing made of minced liver of chicken, 
scraped lean bacon, salt and pepper, stuff the fowl with it, truss 
and cover with slices of bacon ; wrap up in a sheet of buttered 
paper and roast Melt some fresh butter, stir in a little flour, 
and add the remainder of the tarragon leaves, a little gravy, a 
few drops of vinegar, salt and pepper. When the fowl is two- 
thirds cooked, take it off the spit and simmer in a stew-pan with 
the sauce until quite done. Thicken the sauce with two or 
three yolks of egg before serving. 



10 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. DINNER FOR FAST DAY. 

Riz au lait d'amandes. Rice soup with almonds. 

Carpe au bleu. Pickled carp. 

CEufs poch^s k Testragon. Poached eggs with tarragon. 

Eperlans frits. Fri5 smelts. 

Macaroni au gratin. Maccaroni au gratin. 

Beignets aux confitures. Jam fritters. 

Bice sonp witli alxnonds. 

Put three quarters of a pound of half-boiled rice into three 
and a half pints of hot milk, simmer until thoroughly boiled, 
season with salt and a pinch of powdered sugar ; add half a 
pint of milk of almonds just before taking off the fire. 

Pickled caxp. 

In dressing the carp, be careful to open it as little as pos- 
sible ; tie up the head and place in a fish-pan, pour some boil- 
ing vinegar over it, then a tumbler of red wine, three large 
onions sliced, two carrots, parsley, sage, a little garlic, thyme, 
laurel leaves, and a few cloves. Let this simmer over a slow 
fire for an hour, after which leave in the fish-pan until cold, 
when it will be ready to serve. 

Poaohed egrsrs with tarragron. 

Have some boiling water, with a little vinegar and salt in it, 
t^dy to poach your eggs ; when done, drain the eggs carefully, 
and serve with white sauce (see 31st of January). 



THE jfift BILLS OF FARE. ii 

JANUARY II. 

Potage anx petits oignons. Young onion soup. 
Maquereaux grilles ^ la maitre Broiled mackereU la maitre d'hdteL 
d'h6tel. 

Quartiers d'oie ^ la lyonnaise. Hashed goose \ la lyonnaise. 

Filet de bceuf rdtL Roast fillet of beef. 

Choux-fleurs au gratin. Cauliflower au gratin. 

Abricots au riz, chauds, Hot rice and apricots. 

Touziff ozUon soup. 

Peel and blanch your onions carefully ; cook them in a little 
fresh butter until a good brown colour, put them into your 
stock, with a pinch of black pepper, when boiling clear the 
soup of all grease, and pour into the soup-tureen over slices 
of fried bread. 

Broiled mackerel k la maitre d'li6tel. 

Clean and split open your mackerel, and put them to soak 
for half an hour in olive oil, with salt and pepper. Broil them, 
and when cooked put them on a dish and lay some cold 
maitre d'hdtel sauce (see 23rd of March) in a wooden spoon over 
them, add a little lemon juice to the sauce. Serve the 
mackerel very hot. 

Broiled bass, tartare sauce. 

Broil your bass, and serve with tartare sauce (see 15th of 
March). 

Hashed ffoose k la lyonnaise. 

Cut the legs of the goose into small pieces, and fry in the fat 
of the goose ; when done, fry some sliced onions in the same 
fat until brown, drain them, and lay on the pieces of goose, 
which must be piled up on a dish. Cover with poivrade sauce 
(see 2ist of March), 



12 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 12. 



Potage \ la Faubonne. 

Matelote de carpe et d*anguille. 

Selle de mouton ^ Tanglaise. 

Chapon r6ti, au cresson. 

Macaroni ^ Titalienne. 

Pommes k la Bourdaloae. 



Soup k la Faubonne. 

Stewed carp and eel. 

Saddle of mutton. 

Roast capon and watercress. 

Maccaroni cheese. 

Apples ^ la Bordaloue. 



Soup k la Faubonne. 

Cut up some young onions, celery, lettuce, and sorrel-leaves, 
brown them in fresh butter, add them to your stock, and, when 
boiling, thicken with a pur^e of green peas, and serve. 

Stewed oarp and eel. 

Have a carp, an eel, some barbel, and live crayfish, cut all 
but the crayfish into pieces, and warm in some browning made 
of butter and flour, add some half-cooked onions, chopped 
mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, salt and pepper ; moisten with 
good stock, red wine, and boil over a quick fire. When well 
boiled simmer half an hour over a slow fire. Serve with sippets 
of fried bread. 

Boast saddle of mutton. 

Hang your saddle until tender, then roast on the spit, 
wrapped up in buttered paper. A few minutes before serving 
take off the paper, to give the mutton a good brown colour. 
Serve with its own gravy. 



Boast capon with watercresses. 

Roast the same as a fowl (see 25th of June). 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 13 



JANUARY 13. 

Potage paysanne. Peasant's soup. 

Barbue sauce diplomate. Brill, diplomatic sauce. 

Civet de li^vre. Jugged hare. 

Cailles ou merles de Corse rdtis. Roast quaik or blackbirds. 

Artichauts ^ la barigoule. Stuffed artichokes. 

Beignets de pommes chauds. Hot apple fritters. 



Peasant's soup. 

Chop up some cabbage, carrots, onions, and celery, put 
them on the fire in a saucepan with some fresh butter and salt. 
As soon as the vegetables are soft, moisten them with stock 
and simmer over a slow fire for three hours ; add sufficient 
water for the soup required, and simmer for half an hour. It 
is better if either lentils or haricot beans have been boiled in 
the water you add. At the end of half an hour, put in some 
chopped sorrel-leaves and lettuce, and boil. Pour the soup 
over crusts of -bread in the soup-tureen. 

Brill, diplomatio sauoe. 

Dress the brill and place in a fish-pan with some parsley, a 
sliced onion, salt and pepper, a bottle of white wine, and three 
wine-glasses of water. Cover the fish with buttered paper and 
place the pan in a slow oven. Serve with bechamel sauce (see 
1 6th of August) mixed with some crayfish juice. 

Boast turkey-lien. 

Lard your turkey and roast, covered with buttered paper ; 
when nearly done, take off the paper so as to brown the skin. 
Serve with its own gravy. 



14 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY f4. 

PoUge au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 
Pi^ce de boeuf bouillie gamie Boiled beef with glazed onions. 
d'oigAoos glacis. 

Mauviettes en salmis. Salmis of larks. 

Gigot r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

S9lade de jt^gumos. Vegetable salad. 

Ponding. Plum pudding. 

Tapioca soup. 

Wajm some clear soup, and when boiling, add your 
tapioca. Allow four table-spoonsful of tapioca to each quart of 
soup. 

G-lazed onions. 

Choose some ^mall white onions, as much of one size as 
possible, peel carefully ; butter the bottom of the saucepan, lay 
the onions in it side by side, add a little water, salt, pepper, 
powdered sugar, and a lump of butter ; cover with a buttered 
sheet of paper, cook over a quick fire until the sauce is reduced 
one-half, after which simmer until reduced to a glaze ; place 
the onions on a dish, and if the sauce is too thick, add some 
thin Spanish sauce, clear of all grease, pass through a tammy, 
and pour over the onions. 

Salmis of larks. 

Warm your larks in butter and a little salt, when a good 
colour, add some white wine, stock, and chopped mushrooms, 
eschalots, and parsley, boil and serve, garnished with sippets 
of fried bread. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 15 



JANUARY 15. 

Potage atix ceufs poch^s. Soup with poached eggs. 

Barbue 1 la Sainte-Menehould. Brill \ la Saint Menehould. 

C6tellettes de mouton aux oignons. Mutton cutlets with onions. 

Caneton rdti. Roast duckling. 

Gratin de pommes de terre. Baked potatoes with bread-crambs. 
Meringues ^ la Chantilly vanill^es. Meringues \ la Chantilly. 

Brill A la Saint Menehould. 

Warm some pieces of cold boiled brill in a thick bechamel 
sauce (see i6th of August), pile up the whole on a baking-dish, 
smooth over with the blade of a knife, arid sprinkle with 
bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, brown in the 
oven, or with a salamander. 



tfutton cutlets with onions. 

Trim and beat your cutlets to flatten them, lard them 
with bacon and ham, put the dressings in a saucepan with 
three or four onions, two carrots, parsley, and leeks ; place the 
cutlets on this, and moisten with stock until they are 
thoroughly wet, cover with slices of bacon, and put a buttered 
paper over it all ; as soon as it boils, put on the cover of the 
saucepan, and lay some hot coals on it \ when cooked, drain off 
the cutlets and trim them again ; pass the juice through a 
tammy, and reduce to a glaze, replace the cutlets ; when well 
covered on both sides with the glaze, place them round a dish 
and pour a pur^e of white onion sauce (see nth of December) 
in the centre. Surround the cutlets with young onions, which 
have been boiled in stock. 



1 6 THE z(>(> BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 1 6. 

Potage brunoise au riz. Brunoise soup with rice. 

Merlans frits. Fried whiting. 

Boeuf k la mode. Boeuf ^ la mode. 

B^casses r6ties. Roast woodcock. 

Petits pois ^ la fran9aise (con- Preserved green peas ^ la lyonnaise. 
serves). 

Pains de la Mecque au citron. Mecca loaves flavoured with lemon. 

Brtmoise soup with rioe. 

Cut up some carrots, turnips, celery, white cabbage, and 
leeks into dice, boil thoroughly in stock, when done add the 
required quantity of clear soup and a few table-spoonsful of 
boiled rice. 

Fried whiting*. 

Clean your whiting, leave the livers, cut off the fins and tails, 
make two or three slits crossways down the sides, sprinkle 
with flour, and fry in boiling lard ; when a good colour, dry in a 
cloth, sprinkle with salt, and dish up on a napkin, garnished 
with fried parsley. 

Boast woodcock. 

Draw your woodcock, and mince the trail, with half the 
quantity of bacon, some chopped onion and eschalot, salt and 
black pepper, stuff the birds with this, cover with slices of 
bacon, roast before a quick fire and serve on toast. Some 
people prefer not to stuff woodcock, but simply to roast them 
covered with slices of bacon and leaving the trail. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



17 



JANUARY 17. 



Potage aux nouilles. 

Rougets en caisse. 

Noix de veau ^ la bourgeoise. 

Lievre r6ti. 

Artichauts frits. 

Baba au rhum. 



German paste soup. 

Red mullet in cases. 

Chump of veal k la bourgeoise. 

Roast hare. 

Fried artichokes. 

Rimi cake or Baba. 



German paste soup. 

Take a pint of flour, three yolks of egg, two whole eggs, salt, 
black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, stir in sufficient stock 
to make it into a thin paste. Warm some stock, and when 
quite boiling, pass the paste through a drainer into it ; be care- 
ful to keep it at boiling-point or the paste will melt \ when 
sufficiently done, add the required quantity of stock, and 
serve. 

Chump of veal 4 la bourgreoise. 

Butter a stew-pan, and line with slices of bacon and trim- 
mings of veal. Lard a chump of veal, and place in the stew- 
pan, add a tumblerful of stock, a bouquet of parsley, leeks, 
onions, and carrots, cook over a moderate fire with hot coals 
on the cover of the stew-pan ; when done, drain the veal and 
glaze it. Pass the sauce through a tammy, reduce to a glaze, 
add two tablespoonsful of Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November), 
or if you have not any ready, moisten with a little thin 
browning, some white wine and gravy, stir in a lump of 
butter and pour over the veal. 



VV 



1 8 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 18. 

Potage ^ la Cr^cy Cr^cy, or carrot soup. 

Carpe a la Chambord. Carp k la Chambord. 

Selle de mouton brais^e Braised saddle of mutton. 

Faisan bard^ r6ti. Roast larded pbeasant. 

Haricots verts k la maltre dTi6tel Preserved French beans, maitre 

(conserves). d* hdtel. 

Tartelettes aux pommes. Apple tartlets. 

Creoy, or carrot soup. 
Cut some carrots, turnips, celery, and onions, blanch in 
boiling water, and put on the fire with some thin slices of 
lean ham, some fresh butter, a pinch of sugar, and a little 
stock; when boiled, mash the vegetables, pass through a 
tammy and moisten them with the water they were boiled in. 
Simmer this pur^e for two hours, clear of all grease, and serve 
with dice of fried bread. 

Carp a la Chambord. 

Dress and skin a large carp, lard it on one side with fine fillets 
of bacon, stuff with the quenelle stuffing (see 3rd of September), 
and boil in court-bouillon sauce (see 18th of April) with some 
white wine and herbs ; when boiled, take it out of the fish-pan 
and place on a dish in the oven to brown the larded side ; 
serve, surrounded by quenelles, larded sweet-breads, large 
crayfish, fried bread, the bottoms of artichokes, and a sauce, 
made of the juice of the carp added to some Spanish sauce 
(see 3rd of November). 

Coxnp6te of stewed fruit h, la Norxnande. 
Simmer some freshly made cider for six hours, stir occa- 
sionally and skim ; when reduced one-half, add some pears cut 
into quarters, peeled, and the cores scooped out. See that the 
fruit is well covered with cider as it must simmer for twelve 
hours ; when the substance of jam, put the compote into jam- 
pots; this preserve, if carefully made, will keep for years. 
Sometimes pieces of tender carrot, cut the same shape as the 
pieces of pear, are added to this compote ; if such is the case 
put them in the cider long before the pears. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 19 



JANUARY 19. 

Potage aux poireaux. Leek soup. 

-Poularde au riz. Chicken and rice. 

Civet de chevreuil. Jugged venison. 

Brochet au bleu. Pickled pike. 

Choux de Bruxelles sautes au beurre. Dressed Brussels sprouts. 

CBufs aux pistaches. ^ggs with pistachio nuts. 

Leek soup. 

Brown some leeks in fresh butter, when a good colour put 
them into your stock and boil for half an hour ; when ready, 
pour into your soup-tureen over slices of bread. 

Chicken and rice. 

Truss your fowl for boiling, and cook it as in the recipe 
" Half braise " (see 3rd of September). Blanch three quarters 
of a pound of fine rice, and boil in some of the juice from the 
fowl; when done, put the fowl on a dish, clear the grease' off 
the rice, season it with salt, black pepper, and fresh butter, and 
pour over the chicken. 

Jugrsred venison or roebuck. 

Cut up a breast and neck of venison, warm in melted butter, 
add a little flour, a tumblerful of red wine, laurel leaves, the 
juice of a lemon, a bouquet of parsley and thyme, a pinch of 
mixed spice, moisten with stock, simmer for two hours, and 
serve. 

Baked pnr6e of potatoes with, bread-crumbs. 

Make a pur^e of potatoes (see 30th of December), lay in a 
tin or plated dish, sprinkle with grated crusts of bread, moisten 
with fresh melted butter, brown in the oven or with a sala- 
mander, and serve very hot. 



c 2 



20 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 20. 



MENU EN MAIGRE. 

Potage aux herbes. 

Rouget en caisse. 

Brochet au bleu. 

Croquettes de pommes de terre. 

Cardons au gratin ^ Pitalienne. 

Croquenbouche aux fruits glacis. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Herb soup. 
Red mullet in cases. 

Pickled pike. 

Potato croquettes. 

Baked cardoons a I'italienne. 

Candied fruit. 



Herb soup. 

Put a large piece of fresh butter in a saucepan, with some 
leeks, sorrel, chervil, and lettuce leaves, a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, salt and pepper ; when sufficiently done, add the re- 
quired quantity of water, boil well, and thicken with yolks of 
tgg and cream. 

Bed mullet in oases. 

Clean out your fish, save the livers and replace them in the 
mullet with some well salted butter, pepper, and finely chopped 
parsley. Wrap each mullet in an oiled sheet of paper, sprinkle 
over with olive oil, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little 
garlic, place them on the gridiron with red-hot coals under- 
neath and hold a salamander over them, this prevents your 
having to turn the fish. When cooked, squeeze the juice of a 
lemon over the mullet Some cooks do not clean out their 
red mullet. 

Piokled pike. 

Thoroughly clean and scale your pike, and sew up its head 
The day previous to eating it, boil gently in court-bouillon 
sauce (see i8th of April) made with red wine, add a few bay- 
leaves. When cooked, leave it in the sauce. Next day, before 
serving, drain off all the liquid, and garnish with parsley. 
Hand oil and vinegar with this dish. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 21 



JANUARY 21. 

Potage ^ la fran9ai3e. French soup. 

Boeuf garni de petits pit^s. Beef garnished with patties. 

Ris de veau ^ I'espagnole. Sweet-bread, Spanish sauce. 
Perdreaux r6tis. Roast partridges, 

Salade de homard. Lobster salad. 

Charlotte de poires. Pear Charlotte. 

French soup. 

Break the best pieces of vegetable out of your stock-pot, and 
place them in the soup-tureen, pour boiling clear stock on to 
them, and throw in a teaspoonful of chopped chervil. Hand 
fried toast with this soup. 

Sweet-breads, Spanish sauoe. 

Drain and blanch your sweet-breads and let them cool, lard 
them, line a saucepan with slices of veal and bacon, and pieces 
of onion and carrot, lay the sweet-breads on this, without 
pressing them, and moisten with stock, cover with buttered 
paper and place on the fire ; when cooked, put the dressings in 
another saucepan and reduce to a glaze, replace the sweet- 
breads and reduce again ; when browned put in a dish ; loosen 
the glaze from the saucepan by adding a little browning, which 
you must thin with some stock, and pour over the sweet- 
breads. 

Hollandaise or Dutch sauce. 

Put four and a half oilnces of fresh butter in a bowl, three 
yolks of fresh eggs, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of vinegar ; 
warm in a bain-marie until it thickens. Just before serving, add 
the juice of a lemon. 



22 THE 366 BILLS OjF FARE, 



JANUARY 22. 

Potage aux pites d' Italic. Soup with Italian paste. 

Maquereaux bouillis ^ I'eau de sel. Boiled mackerel. 

C6tes de boeuf brais^es ^ la pur^ de Braised ribs of beef, pur^e of 

tomates. tomatoes. 

Poulet roti. Roast fowL 

Celeri-rave ^ la sauce au beurre. Celery roots with butter sauce. 

Baba au rhum. Baba or rum cake. 

Soup with Italian paste. 
Blanch seven ounces of Italian paste, those the shape of a 
melon seed are the best, boil for ten minutes in water, and put 
to cool, then drain in a sieve. Put them into the stock, and 
boil for five minutes, season according to taste, and serve with 
grated Parmesan cheese. 

Braised ribs of beef with pur6e of tomatoes. 

Tie up your piece of meat and place in a stew-pan, with half 
a bottle of white wine, a spoonful of brandy, two pints ,of stock, 
three and a half ounces onion, stuck with three cloves, three 
and a half ounces carrot, a bouquet of thyme, laurel-leaves and 
parsley, and some whole black peppers ; boil and skim, after 
which either bake in the oven or have some hot coals on the 
lid of the stew-pan, being careful to take it off the fire every 
half-hour. As soon as the beef is sufficiently cooked, put the 
juice in a saucepan, reduce it to about the quantity of two wine- 
glassesful, and mix with your pur^e of tomatoes, keep on the 
fire for ten minutes. Serve the ribs of beef separately firom 
the sauce. 

Celery roots with butter sauoe. 

Boil the roots in water with plenty of salt, when cooked, 
drain them, and put a lump of fresh butter on the celery ; when 
melted, take off the fire. Serve with butter sauce. 

Fresh butter sauce. 

Melt some fresh butter, and flavour with salt, pepper, and 
chopped parsley. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 23 



JANUARY 23. 

'Potage ^ la puree de pois. Pea soup. 

Barbeau au court-bouillon. Barbel boiled in court-bouillon. 

Haricot de mouton. Haricot of mutton. 

Grives r6ties. Roast thrushes. 

Artichauts ^ Titalienne. Artichokes, Italian sauce. 

Omelette aux confitures. Sweet omelet. 



Pea soup. 

Boil the peas in stock with a carrot and two onions ; as soon 
as they are cooked, pass them through a tammy and add stock 
to your taste ; boil for twenty minutes. Pour into the soup- 
tureen over fried bread. 

Barbel boiled in oourt-bonillon. 

If the barbel is large, simply clean it and take the scales off 
after boiling. Pour some boiling vinegar over it and sprinkle 
with pepper and salt ; then place in a fish-pan some wine, three 
cloves, laurel-leaves, onions, lemon peel, a bouquet of herbs, 
salt and pepper \ when this mixture begins to boil, put in the 
barbel and boil it, when cooked, scale the fish, drain it well and 
serve on a napkin, garnish with watercress. Any kind of sauce 
will go with this fish. 

Haricot of mutton. 

Cut up part of a loin of mutton, and brown the pieces in 
some butter, when a good colour, take them off the fire, reduce 
the sauce, and replace the meat, adding some stock, small 
potatoes, a bouquet of thyme, laurel leaves, and parsley, salt, 
pepper, and a tiny pinch of nutmeg. Cook over a slow fire, 
skim and serve. 



24 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JANUARY 24. 

Potage bisque d*ecrevisses. Crayfish soup. 

Tete de veau nature. Stewed calf s head. 

Marinade de volaille. Chicken fritters. 

Cuissot de sanglier roti. Roast haunch of boar. 

Pommes sautees. Souffle of apples. 

Bavarois au th^. Blanc mange of maizena, flavoured 

with tea. * 



Stewed oalTs head. 

Bone the calf s head, keep the brains separate and drain them 
for an hour, then boil them with some water and lemon juice 
?.nd leave them in their water. Scald the calf s head, cut out 
the tongue and put it to cooL Cut the head into four pieces, 
and place in a stew-pan large enough for it only to fill it two- 
thirds ; in another saucepan put two ounces of thyme, one ounce 
laurel leaves, three and a half ounces onion, one ounce carrot, 
two ounces flour, two quarts of water, salt, whole black pepper, 
and two wine-glasses of vinegar ; when this boils pour it over 
the calfs head, and place it on the fire, adding the tongue. 
After boiling for two hours and a half, place the two pieces 
with the ears at one end of a dish and the two other pieces 
opposite, split the tongue, lay in the centre of the dish, put the 
brains on it, and garnish with parsley. I consider this the best 
manner of cooking calfs head. 

Fried slices of bread-cnizn.b or brioche. 

Fry some slices of bread-crumb or brioche (see 24th of Decem- 
ber) about a quarter of an inch thick and three inches in 
diameter, in some very fresh melted butter, until of a golden 
colour, be carefiil to keep the bread soft. Spread whatever 
fc, jam or compote you prefer on each slice and place -round a 
B dish, fill the centre with a syrup, made with the same kind- of 
p preserve, melted in equal quantities of sherry and water, pour 
ia when hot, and place the dish in the oven for a few minutes. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 25 



JANUARY 25. 

Potage au riz. • Rice soup. 

Rosbif garni de rissoles. . Roast beef and rissoles. 

Filets de merlan ^ la Conti. Fillets of whiting ^ la Conti. 

Dinde rotie. Roast Turkey. 

Epinards au jus. Stewed spinach with gravy. 

Flan de poires. Pear tart. 

Bloe soup. 

Thoroughlywash and scald your rice, when cool, drain it and 
place in boiling stock, and simmer gently over a slow fire 
until cooked. 

Bissolds. 

Rissoles are composed of cold roast meat, minced well, 
spiced and rolled in very thin paste, which you fry in lard or 
butter. 

Fillets of whiting: a la Conti. 

Cut each fillet into four pieces and fry in melted butter, salt, 
pepper, and the juice of two lemons. When the fillets are 
brown on both sides, dry them on a cloth ; add some slices of 
truffles to the butter, reduce, and thicken with a little more 
butter. Serve on pieces of fried bread. 

Brussels sprouts with butter. 

Clean your sprouts carefully and boil in boiling water and 
salt, drain them thoroughly, and put them in a fiying-pan 
with some fresh butter, when the butter is melted, place them 
on a dish and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 



26 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 26. 

Potage en fansse tortue. Mock turtle soup, 

l^perlans au gratin. Baked smelts. 
Langne de boeuf brais^ sauce Braised ox tongue, tomato sauce, 
tomate. 

Gigot de chevreujl rdti. Roast leg of roebuck. 

Pur^e de haricots ^ la cr^me. Pur^ of haricot beans with cream. 

Beignets de pommes. Apple fritters. 

Mook turtle soup, French fasliion. 

Take two pounds of lean mutton, with scraps of turbot or any 
kind of fish, such as salmon, whiting or carp, use heads and all, 
warm in a saucepan with butter and a bouquet of herbs until 
brown, then boil in water till the bones drop from the mutton ; 
pass the stock through a cloth, clear it with whites of ^gg^ 
reduce until it is thick enough to bear the addition of half a 
bottle of Madeira without making it too thin ; then add the 
quarter of a calf s head which has been previously boiled in 
white wine and cut into small squares, season with cayenne and 
serve. 

Baked smelts. 

Wash and clean your smelts and lay them in a tin dish with 
some melted fresh butter, dried herbs, salt, pepper, and a little 
nutmeg, cover them entirely with scraped crust of bread, 
moisten with hot melted butter drop by drop and then pour a 
little white wine over it. Reduce the sauce in a slow oven and 
brown with a salamander. 

Braised ox-tonffue. 

Thoroughly wash and trim your tongue, lard it, and simmer 
over a slow fire for five or six hours with some slices of bacon, 
veal, or beef, a few slices of carrots, onions, thyme, laurel 
leaves, and cloves. When sufliciently cooked, skin and trim 
the tongue and split it in half, so as to form the shape of a 
heart on the dish. Serve with tomato sauce (see 6th of January) . 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 27 



JANUARY 27. 

Potage crodte au pot. Soup widi gravy crusts. 

Boeuf bouilli garni de choux. Boiled beef and cabbage. 

Ris de veau a la Toulouse. Sweet-bread ^ la Toulouse. 

Canards rotis. Roast ducks. 

Lentilles en pur^. Puree of lentils. 

Meringues 4 la Chantilly. Meringues k la Chantilly. 

Soup^ with fried srravy crusts. 

This soup is made exactly like " French Soup ^ (see 21st of 
January) with this simple alteration, "Toast some crusts of 
bread brown, put in a saucepan, pour some imcleared stock 
over them and leave to simmer until the stock is dried up and 
the crusts are crisp."' Place these crusts in your soup-tureen 
and pour the boiling French soup over them. 

Boiled beef and cabbagre. 

Boil a piece of rump-steak in some stock ; when cooked, 
surround it with quarters of cabbage, sausage, and bacon, which 
have been separately boiled, place them alternately round the 
dish. 

Sweet-breads with white sauce. 

Blanch, trim, and dry your sweet-breads, put them in a sauce- 
pan with a little butter, sprinkle with flour, and shake them, 
moisten with water and cook over a slow fire ; just before serving 
add some small onions and button mushrooms which have been 
cooked separately ; thicken the sauce with the yellow of an egg, 
and flavour with lemon juice. 

Cauliflower with butter sauce. 

Break your cauliflowers into small pieces and soak in cold 
water with a little vinegar, blanch them by soaking in boiling 
water for three or four minutes, drain and trim them, boil in 
boiling water and salt ; be careful not to overboil, as the pieces 
must be firm. Serve hot, pour some butter sauce (see 22nd 
of January) over them. 



28 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JANUARY 28. 

Potage aux lazagnes. Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Filets de soles 4 la Orly. • Fillets of sole 4 la Orly.' 

Poulet saut^. Brovm fricassee of chicken. 

Rosbif f 6ti. Roast beef. 

Laitues au jus. Stewed lettuce. 

CroAtes ^ la normande (chaudes). . Fried toasts 4 la Normande. 



Clear soup with Italian paste. 
Prepare like the soup on the 22nd of January. 

FiUets of sole & la Orly. 

Fillet your soles and soak them in lemon juice with salt and 
whole black pepper. Boil the dressings of the fish in white 
wine, a bouquet of herbs, salt and pepper ; reduce the sauce, and 
strain. Flour and fry the fillets, drain them, and serve with 
the sauce separate. 

Baked cauliflower with bread-crumbs. 

Break your cauliflower into small pieces and soak in cold 
water and vinegar, blanch in boiling water for two or three 
minutes, when cool, boil in boiling water, but keep them 
firm. Have some white sauce (see 31st of January) ready, to 
which add some grated Parmesan cheese. Place your pieces 
of cauliflower in layers in a tin dish, cover each layer 
with the sauce, sprinkle the. whole with grated Parmesan 
cheese and browned bread-crumbs, moisten with melted 
butter, and brown in the oven or with a salamander. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 29 



JANUARY 29. 

Potage de consomm^ aux quenelles. Clear soup with quenelles. 

Truites ^ la Saint-Florentin. Trout k la Saint Florentin. 

Selle de mouton ^ I'anglaise. Roast saddle of mutton. 

Chapon r6ti. Roast capon. 

Petits pois au beurre (conserves). Preserved green peas. 

Beignets souffles. Fritters. 

Clear soup with auenelles. 

Prepare your quenelles (see 3rd of September) and boil 
them in a little stock, drain, place in the soup-tureen, and 
pour the necessary quantity of stock over them. 

Trout i, la Saint Florentin. 

Procure some fine trout, clean them by the gills and stuff 
with fresh butter, mixed with fine herbs, salt, and pepper, cook 
in a fish-pan with sufficient white wine to be three inches above 
the fish, add a crust of bread, onions, a bouquet of herbs, two 
heads of cloves, a little nutmeg, salt, and pepper, cook over a 
bright fire so that the wine may catch fire; as soon as the 
flames begin to subside add some butter mixed with flour. 
Place the fish on a dish and cover with its own sauce, passed 
through a tammy. 

Boast saddle of mutton. 

Hang your mutton until tender; wrap it up in buttered 
paper and roast ; when nearly done, take off the paper so as to 
brown the mutton, serve with strong gravy. Hand a pur^e of 
turnips (see 13th of May) with the mutton, and a sauce made of 
melted butter, flavoured with chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. 



30 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JANUARY 30. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage 4 la pur^e de navets. Pur^e of turnips. 

Bouchees aux hultres. Oyster patties. 

Morue ^ la bechamel. Codfish, bechamel sauce. 
Carpes frites. Fried carp. 

Salade de legumes. Vegetable salad. 

Gateau de riz. Rice cake. 

Fiiree of turnips. 

Wash and scrape a pound of turnips, boil over a slow fire, 
in three pints of water, a quarter of a pound of butter, and half 
a pound of well-washed rice, be careful that the turnips do not 
stick to the bottom of the saucepan. When boiled pass 
through a tammy, and put the purde on the fire ; if too thick 
add a little milk. Stir with a wooden spoon, and when hot add 
four ounces of fresh butter and three wine-glasses of double 
cream. You can either hand fried toast or well-boiled rice 
with this pur^e. 

Oyster patties. 

Roll your puff paste six times, cut with a round tin cutter 
about five inches in diameter, glaze with the white of an tgg^ 
then press a smaller round cutter in the centre, enough to cut 
the paste slightly, this will form the cover to your patty ; bake 
by a brisk fire, when done cut out the covers with a sharp pen- 
knife, be careful to leave a little paste to form the bottom of 
the patty. Have some oysters and chopped button mushrooms 
ready, warmed in bechamel sauce (see i8th of August), fill the 
patties, and serve very hot. 



I 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 31 



JANUARY 31. 

Potage pur^e aux crodtons. Pea soup with fried toast. 
Gigot de mouton bouilli sauce aux Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, 
capres. 

Goujons frits. Fried gudgeon. 

Oie rdtie. Roast goose. 

Champignons farcis. Stuffed mushrooms. 

Gel^e au kirsch. Kirsch jelly. 

Pea soup with fried toast. 
For recipe see 23rd of January. 

Boiled leflT of mutton, caper sanoe. 

Boil your mutton in a stock-pot with water, skim it, and add 
carrots, onions, a bouquet of parsley, leeks, cloves, laurel 
leaves, and a head of garlic ; simmer for two hours, drain, and 
serve with white caper sauce — recipe for which see below. 

White sauce. 

Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour with a little butter and half 
a wine-glass of water, the juice of half a lemon, salt, pepper, and 
a little grated nutmeg ; place on a quick fire and stir, when the 
sauce has boiled over two or three times, take it oflfthe fire, add 
the capers just before serving. 

Boast flroose stuffed with chestnuts. 

Prepare your goose and stuff it with the following ingredients, 
minced bacon, the goose's liver, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, 
and chestnuts, which have been previously cooked and peeled. 
Roast the goose and baste frequently. When done serve with 
its own gravy and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and the juice 
of a lemon. 

Pried Bread or Brioche k la Kormande. 

See " Fried Bread," 24th of January, and "Stewed Fruit k 
la Normande" (i8th of January). 



32 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY i. 



Potage bisque d'^crevisses. Crayfish soup. 

C6tes de boeuf brais^es. Braised ribs of beef. 

Cervelles de veau en marinade. Calf's brains fried in batter. 
Li^vre roti. Roast hare. 

Laitues au jus. Stewed lettuces. 

Omelette souffl^e. Omelet souffle. 



Cra3rfl8lL soup." . 

Wash fifty fine live crayfish in several waters, drain and boil 
in stock with some carrots and parsley. When done take the 
saucepan off the fire, and leave the crayfish in it for ten minutes 
well-covered up, after which put them in a sieve and keep the 
juice. When the crayfish are nearly cold, break ^ off the tails 
of the bigger ones and reserve them, pound the bodies and the 
smaller crayfish in a mortar until of a thick red paste, soak a 
lump of bread-crumb as big as your fist in the juice, dry before 
the fire and pound into the paste, mix in some stock until of a 
proper substance, pass through a tammy into a saucepan, put 
on the fire, add the tails of the crayfish, and be careful not to 
let the soup boil, flavour with plenty of salt and a pinch of 
cayenne.pepper. Serve very hot. 

Stewed lettuces. 

Clean, blanch, and trim your lettuces, tie them in bunches, 
putting two or three together, simmer for two hours in a sauce- 
pan with stock, a bouquet of herbs, chopped onions, salt, and 
pepper, line the saucepan with buttered paper. When cooked 
untie the lettuces and serve with their own sauce, which must 
be reduced and passed through a tammy. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 33 



FEBRUARY 2. • 

Potage au vermicelle. Vermicelli soup. 

Merlans au gratin Baked whiting with bread-crumbs. 
Poulet saut^. Brown fricassee of chicken. 

Gigot de mouton rdti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Haricots ^ la bretonne. Haricot beans 4 la bretonne. 

Pommes meringu^es. Meringue of apple. 

Verxnioelli soup. 

Blanch the vermicelli in boiling, water for three or four 
minutes, let it cool, drain, and throw into boiling stock, stir 
for a few minutes and serve. 

haricot beans a la bretonne. 

Mince half a pound of onions, blanch, and drain. Brown in 
five ounces of butter, and when a good colour add an ounce 
of flour, some salt and pepper, leave on the fire for ^vt 
minutes ; moisten with a pint and a half of stock, and cook 
for twenty minutes, stirring all the time ; then add a pint of 
haricot beans, which have been well boiled, and an ounce of 
butter ; warm, and serve. 

Merinffue of apple. 

Cut half-a-pound of fine apples into slices, and warm in a 
saucepan with seven ounces of butter, same quantity of sugar, 
when cooked pile prettily on a dish ; whip the whites of four 
eggs to a cream, sweeten with a quarter of a pound of powdered 
sugar, cover the apples evenly with this, sprinkle with sugar 
and brown in a slow oven. You may flavour the white of 
egg with vanilla or lemon juice. 



34 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY 3. 

Potage julienne, Julienne soup. 

Tanches 4 la poulette. Stewed tench. 

Perdrix aux choux. Partridges with cabbage. 

Rosbif aux pommes. Roast TOef and potatoes. 
Ecrevisses au court-bouillon. Crayfish. 

Omelette au rhum. Rum omelet. 

Stewed tench. 

Wash, scale, scrape, and drain the fish. Cut into pieces, 

warm in fresh butter, when firm, add a tablespoon of flour and 

moisten with white wine ; season with salt, whole black pepper, 

a bouquet of herbs , add some button mushrooms and young 

onions; when the stew is ready, thicken the sauce with the 

yolk of an egg. 

Boiled orayflflli. 

Boil some live crayfish in white wine or equal quantities of 
water and vinegar, seasoned with thyme, laurel leaves, carrots, 
onions, salt, and pepper ; boil for half an hour, add the cray- 
fish, be careful they are well covered with the sauce, boil for 
seven or eight minutes, take off the fire and leave the crayfish 
in the saucepan until cold, drain and dish up with all the 
heads raised in the centre on a bed of fresh parsley. 

Vesretable salad. 

Boil in separate saucepans equal quantities of carrots, peas, 
asparagus heads, French beans, potatoes, and half the quantity 
of turnips ; when done, drain carefully, and place in a salad 
bowl in separate groups with a fine head of boiled cauliflower 
in the centre. Cover with the following sauce; 

Salad sauce. 

Take twelve tablespoonfuls of olive oil, two of vinegar, half 
a teaspoonful anchovy sauce, salt, black pepper, a pinch of 
cayenne, and a head of garlic, stu: well, and remove the garlic 
before pouring over the salad. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 35 



FEBRUARY 4. 

Potage cr^me de riz ^ la peluche de Cream of rice soup with cherviL 
cerfeuil. 

Filet de mouton brais^. Braised fillet of mutton. 

Ris de veau 4 la Toulouse. Sweet-breads k la Toidouse. 

Canards sauvages r6tis. Roast wild duck. 

Salade de homard. Lobster salad. 

Beignets aux abricots. Apricot fritters. 

Creazn of rice soup witlL cherviL 

Boil some rice in chicken broth for an hour, pass through 
a tammy, add the necessary quantity of stock, and serve, 
adding at the last some chopped cherviL 

Sweet-bread k la Toulouse. 

Cook the sweet-breads in Spanish sauce (see 21st of January), 
and garnish \ la Toulouse. 

Gumish a la Toulouse. 

• 

This garnish is composed of scollops of foie gras, truffles, 
whole mushrooms, cockscombs, and livers, and lamb's sweet- 
breads. The scollops are made from previously cooked foie 
gras ; the truffles must be boiled in glaze and white Ivine ; the 
mushrooms blanched with butter and lemon juice ; the cocks- 
combs trimmed, washed, and boiled until they are blanched ; 
the livers boiled, and the lamb's sweet-bread fried. All these 
ingredients are placed round the dish, the foie gras slightly 
glazed, the cockscombs, mushrooms, livers, and lamb's sweet- 
breads covered with velout^ sauce (see 23rd of August), and the 
truffles strongly glazed. 

Lobster salad. 

Cut up the daws and tail of a lobster or sea crayfish, lay 
them on a bed of hearts of lettuce, garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs, anchovies, olives, capers, and fine herbs. Cover with a 
thick Mayonnaise sauce (see 24th of June). 

D 2 



36 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY 5. 

Potage au vermicelle. Vermicelli soup. 

Bar saucQ au cypres. Bass, caper sauce. 

Abatis de dinde 4 la Chipolata. Stewed turkey giblets with Chipolata 

sausage. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Pommes de terre sautte. Fried potato chips. 

Biscuits au chocolat. Chocolate biscuits. 



Stewed giblets of Turkey with. Chipolata satusaflre*. 

Pick, scald, and singe the giblets, cut the necks into four 
pieces. Take the eyes out of the heads, cut the pinions in 
two, the claws in two, the gizzards into four pieces, do not use 
the livers unless very fresh, which is rare. Cut some lean 
bacon into large dice, and brown in fresh butter. Cut some 
turnips to about the size of a cork and brown, boil some 
carrots, cut into round balls and brown with slices of onion, 
put these vegetables on a dish. Brown the giblets to a good 
colour, without burning, add some flour, stir for five minutes 
over the fire, moisten with equal quantities of stock and water, 
and a teaspoonful of brandy, stir until it boils; then add 
bacon, carrots, a bouquet of parsley, salt, pepper, and simmer. 
Half an hour before serving put in some onions, turnips, 
Chipolata sausage, and carefully peeled roast chestnuts. Boil 
for ten minutes, skim, and serve. 

Bass, caper sauce. 

Clean, wash, and drain the bass, soak for an hour in olive 
oil, flavoured with mixed herbs, salt, and pepper, broil and serve 
with caper sauce (see 3rd of May). 



\. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 37 



FEBRUARY 6. 

Potage avec semoule et chifTonade Semolina soup with sorrel. 

d'oseille. 

Sella de mouton brais^ 4 la pur^ Braised saddle of mutton, pur^ of 

de navets. turnips. 

Carpe au ragodt de laitances. Carp with stewed roe. 

Dinde r6tie. Roast turkey-hen. 

C^leri au jus. Stewed celery. 

Gaufres 4 la cr^me. Wafers with cream. 



Semolina soup with sorrel. 

Boil the semolina in stock until it swells, then add the 
necessary quantity of stock, and boil for ten minutes ; when 
quite boiling, add some chopped sorrel-leaves. 

Braised saddle of mutton. 

Trim the saddle and tie round the ends with a string to keep 
it compact ; line a large stew-pan with slices of bacon, lay the 
saddle in it, on the fat side, add two tablespoons of stock, two 
carrots, two large onions, a bouquet of herbs, and a tablespoon 
of old brandy. Place the stew-pan on the fire, moisten with 
stock and cover with buttered paper ; simmer for four hours, 
and keep hot coals on the lid ; drain the saddle, cut the string, 
replace the mutton in the stew-pan, and glaze ; put hot coals on 
the cover, but do not fix it on tight When cooked, place on 
a dish, reduce the sauce and pour over it. Surround with a 
pur^e of turnips (see 13th of May). 

Carp with stewed roe. 

Boil the carp in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), and serve 
on a stew of roe (see 22nd of May) ; you can simmer the carp in 
the stew for a few minutes, if preferred. 



38 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY 7. 

Potage au sagou. Sago soup. 

Poularde au gros sel. Fowl boiled in pig's bladder. 

Filets de soles \ la Orly. Fillets of sole ^ la Orly. 

Gigot de chevreuil roti. Roast leg of venison. 

Puree de cardons k la cr^me. Pur^e of cardoons with cream. 

Petits gateaux de riz. Small rice cakes. 

SaflTO soup. 

Wash the sago in warm water, blanch and drain, boil in 
stock. When boiling take off the fire, and leave by the fire 
until it becomes a jelly ; add a pur^e of turnips to it (see 13th 
of May), and serve. 

Fowl boiled in pigr's bladder. 

Clean and truss the fowl for boiling, blanch for a minute in 
boiling water, cover with slices of bacon, and put into a well 
scalded pig's bladder, tie it up tight so that no water may get 
in, and boil in a stew-pan, full of boiling water, when sufficiently 
done, take the fowl out of the bladder, sprinkle the breast 
with plenty of bay salt, and serve. 

Fiir^e of haricot beans with cream. 

Boil the haricot beans in salt and water, with a bouquet of 
herbs and onions ; when cooked pass through a tammy and 
add either some fresh butter or cream, and season with salt 
and pepper. 

A grood sauce for all roasts. 

Simmer a wineglass of red wine, an anchovy, a little stock, 
a chopped eschalot, and the juice of a lemon in a saucepan. 
Pass through a tammy, and mix with the gravy of your roast. 



THE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. 39 



FEBRUARY 8. 

Potage "k la piir^ de pommes de Pur^e of potatoes, 
terre. 

Cabillaud sauce hollandaise. Cod, Hollandaise sauce. 

Jambon d'York 4 I'anglaise. York ham. 

B^casses r6ties. Roast woodcock. 

Champi^ons k la bordelaise. Mushrooms k la bordelaise. 

Gel^ au marasquin. Maraschino jelly. 

Puree of potatoes. 

Either bake or boil some fine potatoes, peel, and pass through 
a tammy, warm in a stew-pan with some melted butter, add salt 
and pepper, and milk enough to make the proper substance of 
a thick soup, boil, and serve with fried bread. 

Tork ham. 

Cook the ham as in the recipe fsee 21st of April), and serve 
with stewed spinach (see i6th of June). 

tttushrooms a la Bordelaise. 

Choose some big, firm, fresh mushrooms; peel, wash, and drain 
them, make one or two slits on the top side of the mushrooms, 
soak for an hour and a half in oil, salt, and pepper. Broil them, 
turn when half cooked, so that each side may be equally broiled. 
Warm the olive oil in which the mushrooms were soaked, 
season with finely chopped chives and parsley : dish up the 
mushrooms, sprinkle with a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice, 
and pour the hot olive oil over them. 

Boast teaL 

Roast the same as duck or duckling. Teal can be eaten on 
fast days. 



40 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY 9. 

Pur^e aux croi!itons. Pea soup with toast. 

Barbillons grilles. Broiled barbel. 

C6tes de boeuf braisees aux carottes. Braised ribs of beef with carrots. 
Cochon de lait r6ti. Roast sucking-pig. 

Mac^doine de legumes en salade. Salad of mixed vegetables. 

Eclairs au cafd. Coffee fingers glazed with coffee. 



Boiled Tench. 

Place the tench for a moment in boiling water, scrape with 
knife without cutting the skin, scale and clean with care, 
stuff with fresh butter mixed with chopped garlic and 
fine herbs, broil and serve on tomato sauce flavoured with 
anchovy, or green sauce (see 6th of April), or sauce Robert (see 
4th of March). 

Salad of mixed vegretables. 

Boil some slices of carrot and turnip in stock ; other vege- 
'tables, such as peas, French beans, asparagus heads, haricot 
beans, onions, and cauliflower should be boiled in salt and 
water. When cold and drained, arrange these vegetables 
prettily in a salad bowl, and dress with salad dressing (see 3rd 
of February), with the addition of a tablespoon of strong cold 
gravy. 

Stewed cardoons with marrow. 

Stew your cardoons as in the recipe (see 8th of October); 
Toast some shoes of bread-crumb about half an inch thick, 
spread some previously blanched marrow on the toast, glaze 
with beef glaze, dish up the stewed cardoons, and garnish with 
the toasts. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 41 



FEBRUARY 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage julienne maigre. Julienne soup for fast d(iy. 

Brochet sauce raifort. Pike, horseradish sauce. 

Vol-au-vent k la bechamel. Vol-au-vent of eggs, bechamel 

sauce. 

• Dame d*esturgeon r6tie. Roast fillet of sturgeon. 

Choux-fleurs au fromage. Cauliflower with cheese. 

Soupirs de nonne. Nun's sighs. 

Julienne soup for fast day. 

Prepare like Julienne soup (see 2nd of January), only use 
water and butter instead of stock. 

Vol-an-vent of eerfirs, bechamel sauce. 

Put four ounces of flour, one ounce of butter, two pints of 
milk, a small eschalot, a pinch of thyme, a laurel-leaf, and a tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley in a saucepan, and cook for twenty 
minutes, stirring all the time. Pass through a tammy and put 
in a saucepan large enough to hold twelve hard-boiled eggs, 
cut up in shces, put on the fire ten minutes before required, 
stir until it boils, take the eggs out, add five ounces of butter, 
which stir in well ; when dissolved, place the eggs and some 
button mushrooms in the vol-au-vent case, and pour the sauce 
over them ; be careful the sauce is not too thick, if so add a 
little milk. 

Boast fillet of stnrgreon. 

Lard the fillet with strips of well-seasoned eel, soak in white 
wine, salt, whole black pepper, and a pinch of spice ; roast and 
baste with the oil. Hand with sauce piquante (see 26th of June), 
only make it with water instead of stock. 



42 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



FEBRUARY 11. 



Potage au vermicelle. Vermicelli soup. 

Barbue sauce aux cypres. Brill, caper sauce. 

T6te de veau k la Destili^re. CalTs head k la Destili^re. 

Filet de boeuf pique r6ti. Larded fillet of beef. 

Pur^e de pommes de terre. Pur^e of potatoes. 

Pommes gamies de cro^tes au Stewed apples on toast, 
mad^re. 



Pike, raifort sauce. 

Boil the pike in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), and serve 
with raifort sauce (see i8th of November). 

Calfs head a la Destiliere. 

Bone the calf s head, blanch the brains in boiling water with 
a few drops of vinegar. Cook in thin white sauce (see i6th of 
April) for three quarters of an hour, take off the fire and leave 
them in the saucepan until cold ; at the same time drain and 
blanch the calfs head, when cold, dry and cut it into small 
pieces leaving the eyes and ears whole ; boil in thin white sauce 
over a quick fire, then simmer for three or four hours, which 
is quite sufficient. Drain and arrange on a dish, cut the 
brains in half, and place at each end of the dish ; cut up the 
tongue into dice, ready to put into the sauce. Take two table- 
spoons of Spanish sauce (see 22nd of August) or some thin glaze, 
add half a bottle Chablis, one hot chili-pepper well pounded, 
six tablespoons of stock, and reduce ; add some small rounds 
of pickled gherkins, the dice of lamb's tongue and some 
chopped button mushrooms. Pour this sauce over the calfs 
head. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 43 



FEBRUARY 12. 

Potage ail pain. Bread soup. 

Pi^ce de bceuf gamie d'oignons Stewed beef and onions. 

glac^. 
Dames d'alose grillte maftre Broiled slices of shad, maltred*h6tel. 
d'h6tel. 

Chapons bardes, r6tis. Roast larded capons. 

Betteraves ^ la cr^me. Beetroot with cream. 

C6mpote d*oranges. Orange salad. 

Broiled slices of shad, maitre d'hbtel. 

Cut the shad into slices about an inch thick, soak in olive 
oil, with fine herbs, salt, and pepper for an hour ; broil over a 
slow fire, serve with maitre d'hotel sauce (see 23rd of March). 

Beetroot with oreaio. 

Peel and slice your beetroot, boil over a slow fire in bechamel 
sauce (see i6th of August). 

Oranere salad. 

Peel the oranges, prick them with a fork in several places, 
and soak in cold water, put them in a preserving-pan, with 
boiling water and some shavings of the orange peel ; boil for 
ten minutes, change the water, and boil again until quite 
tender, plunge them into cold water, put sufficient refined 
syrup into the preserving-pan to cover the oranges, which drain 
well and boil in the syrup, without the peel, until quite thick. 
Take off the fire, pour the sjnrup and oranges into a deep dish ; 
cut the finiit into quarters when cold ; place in a dish with the 
shavings in the centre, pour the syrup over them. 



44 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY 13. 



Potage i la pur^e de marrons. 
Filets de merlans au gratin. 

Haricot de mouton. 

Jambon ^ la broche. 

r<pinards au jus. 

Souffle de riz. 



Pur^e of chestnuts. 
Baked fillets of whiting with bread- 
crumbs. 
Haricot of mutton. 
Roast ham. 
Stewed spinach. 
Rice souffle. 



Puree of ohestnuts. 

Peel sixty chestnuts, scald them in boiling water, remove the 
inside skin, and boil in stock, when done, pass through a tammy, 
add sufficient stock to make the soup a proper substance, and 
pour over slices of fried bread. Serve very hot 

Baked fillets of 'v^hiting' with, bread-crumbs. 

Line the bottom of a tin or plated dish with fish forcemeat 
(see 6th of April), lay your fillets on it and cover them with a layer 
of the same forcemeat, smooth over with the blade of a knife 
warmed in hot water, sprinkle with grated bread-crust, moisten 
with fresh melted butter and bake, when done pour some 
Italian sauce over it (see 13th of October). 



Artichokes, Italian sauce. 

Trim the artichokes, remove the chokes, cut into four pieces, 
blanch, and drain. Boil in equal quantities of white wine and 
stock, season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, and a little butter, 
when done, drain and serve, covered with Italian sauce (see 13th 
of October). 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 45 



FEBRUARY 14. 

Potage julienn^ Julienne soup. 

Surmulet au beurre fondu. Grey mullet, melted butter. 

Tendrons de veau au blanc. Tendons of veal, white sauce. 
Gigot de mouton r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Navets glacis au jus. Stew^ turnips. 

Gdteau d'amandes. . Almond cake. 

Grey m-allet with melted butter. 

Broil the mullet, and pour fresh melted butter with chopped 
parsley, pepper, and salt over it. 

Tendons of veal with, w^hite sauce. 

Prepare the tendons in the same way as breast of veal (see 
1 6th of December). 

Stewed turnips. 

Peel the turnips all to one size, blanch, and drain ; butter a 
saucepan large enough for the turnips to lay side by side, place 
them on the butter and moisten with stock, flavour with salt, 
a little powdered sugar, and a stick of cinnamon ; as soon as 
they begin to boil, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, take 
the saucepan off the fire, place it near the oven and put hot 
coals on the cover, when sufficiently cooked uncover the 
saucepan and leave the turnips until glazed ; when cold place 
them on a dish, melt the glaze with a little stock, take out the 
cinnamon, and pour this sauce over the turnips. 

Almond cake. 

Mix two pints of flour with a piece of fresh butter the size 
of an egg, a pinch of salt, four eggs, five ounces of powdered 
sugar, seven ounces of well-powdered almonds; when well 
mixed place in a mould and bake ; when done, ice the cake 
with pink icing sugar. 



46 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY 15. 

Pots^e Fauboime. ^anbonne soup. 

Noix de veau ^ la chicoree. Chump of veal with chicory. 

Lapereau saut^. Stewed rabbit. 

Limandes frites. Fried dabs. 

Champignons farcis. Stuffed mushrooms. 

Cr^me au chocolat. Chocolate cream. 



Chump of veal with chicory. 

Make an incision half an inch deep, lengthways and across 
the skin of the chump ; trim the other side of the veal so as to 
make it quite smooth and lard it ; place in a stew-pan with some 
carrots, onions, a bouquet of parsley, and a little stock, simmer 
until the bottom of the saucepan is coloured, add one pound of 
meat, moisten with a little water and stock, cook over a slow 
fire with hot coals on the cover, or in the oven ; when three- 
quarters done remove the vegetables and bouquet, which will 
have sufficiently flavoured the meat and would only absorb the 
gravy. Make a larger fire and moisten the veal with its own 
juice until it is glazed, which will take about half-an-hour. 
Take all the fat off the sauce and pass through a tammy. 
Make a foundation of puree of chicory or sorrel (see 23rd of 
December) on a dish, place the churap on it, and cover with 
the sauce. 

Fried dabs. 

Scrape your fish with care, fry, and serve with fried parsley. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



Al 



FEBRUARY 16. 



Potage 4. la pnr^ d^artichauts. 

Alose k la sauce aux cdpres. 

Rosbif ^ la mode. 

Caneton de Rouen rotL 

Choux-fieurs en salade. 

Chartreuse de pommes. 



Pur^ of artidiokes. 

Shad, caper sauce. 

Boeuf ^ la mode. 

Roast duckling. 

Cauliflower salad. 

Chartreuse or apple marmalade. 



Por^ of artichoke soup. 

See the recipe below for purde of bottoms of artichokes, add 
sufficient stock to make a thick soup, and serve with fried 
dice of bread. 

PurAe of artichokes. 

Cut out the bottoms of the artichokes, blanch them, and re- 
move the chokes, boil in water with a little flour, salt, and 
lemon juice; when done, mash them and mix with some 
bechamel sauce (see i6th of August), pass through a tammy 
and warm in cream and fresh butter. 

Bo&uf ^ la mode. 

Choose a tender piece of rump-steak, beat it well, lard with 
thick fillets of bacon, simmer over a fire for at least six hours, 
with trimmings of bacon, calves' feet, onions, carrots, a bouquet 
of mixed herbs, laurel leaves, thyme, a head of garlic, two or 
three heads of cloves, salt, and pepper ; cover the top of the 
saucepan with a cloth, so as to keep on the cover very tight. 
When cooked, clear the sauce of all grease, pass through a 
tammy, pour over the beef and serve. 

Boast dncklinfir. 

Cleauj draw, and truss your duckling, wrap up in slices of 
bacon, and roast. Serve with its own gravy. 



48 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



FEBRUARY 17. 

Potage li la pur^e de -lentUles. Puree of lentils. 

Pite chaud de lamproie. Hot lamprey pie. 

Toume-dos k la sauce piquante. Fillets of beef with piquante sauce. 

Pintade r6tie. Roast guinea fowl. 

Pur& de chicoree aux'croAtons. Pur^e of chicory with fried bread. 

Pouding. Plum pudding. 

Puree of chicory with fried bread. 

Trim and wash eight fine heads of chicory, cut off all the 
green, drain and boil for twenty minutes in boiling salt and 
water, place in cold water to cool as quick as possible, drain and 
dry in a cloth. Cut up into small pieces, warm in a sauce- 
pan with butter, salt, and pepper, stir in a little flour, moisten 
with stock, reduce and serve, garnished with sippets of fried 
bread. 

Plum pnddinsr. 

Have a pound of stoned raisins, six eggs, half a tumbler of 
rum or brandy, five ounces of chopped suet, a pound of flour or 
cornflour, two ounces of powdered sugar or moist sugar, two 
tumblersful of milk, chopped citron, a pinch of grated nut- 
meg, stir all well together, add some bread-crumbs soaked in. 
milk, tie up in a pudding-cloth and boil for four hours, turn the 
pudding occasionally. When cooked, cut up the pudding 
into slices, sprinkle with either rum or brandy, and set fire to it. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 49 



FEBRUARY 18. 

Potage au pain. Bread soup< 

Pi^ce de bceuf gamie de petits Roast beef with pattiies. 
pites. 

Canards aux navets. Stewed ducks and turnips. 

Terrine de foies gras. Pite of foie gras. 

Salade de legumes. Vegetable salad. 

Beignets d'oranges. Orange fdtters. 

Curry soup with rice. 

Fry some slices 01 onions and warm in a 'stew-pan with a 
little curry-powder and butter, add the necessary quantity of 
stock ; boil and pa'ss through a tammy, pour over rice, which 
has been boiled in stock, and serve. 

Stewed duck and turnips. 

Truss your duck and brown in a stew-pan with some fresh 
butter, peel and cut some young turnips into equal sizes aiid 
brown in the same butter, stir in a little powdered sugar. 
Reduce some stock to a thin brown sauce, season with salt, 
pepper, a bouquet of parsley, chives, half a head of garlic, and 
laurel leaves, stew the duck in this sauce, and when half 
cooked add the turnips, turn the duck from time to time, and 
be careful not to break the turnips, cook over a slow fire. 
Clear the sauce of all grease, and serve. 

Orangre fritters. 

Peel your oranges, cut them into quarters^ remove the pips, 
and cover with powdered sugar; dip into batter (see 13th, 
of November) and fry in boiling lard, drain and dish up, 
sprinkled with powdered sugar. 



U 



50 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



FEBRUARY 19. 

Potage anx p&tes d'ltalie. Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Rougets en caisse. Red mullet in cases. 

Boeuf brais6 garni de pommes de Braised beef and fried potatoes, 
terre frites. 

Poularde rotie. Roast fowl. 

Choux de Bruxelles sautes. Brussels sprouts with butter. 

Pommes au beurre. Stewed apples. 

BriU h, la Oonti. 

Skin and clean a fresh brill, cut several slits down the 
back, simmer over a slow fire until cooked, in a tumblerful of 
olive oil, half a tumbler of stock, the same quantity of white 
wine, salt, pepper, and chopped herbs; drain, and dish up. 
Reduce two tumblersful of stock to half that quantity, season 
with a pinch of finely-chopped parsley, and pour over the brilL 

Ste'wed apples. 

Peel some fine cooking apples, scoop out the cores and stew 
in syrup until three parts cooked, drain and leave until cold. 
Boil the same quantity of apples in sugar and water, seasoned 
with lemon peel, a stick of cinnamon, and fresh butter, when 
quite soft, mash up into a thick marmalade, pour into a deep 
dish, spread a layer of jam over it and place the apples on 
the top, fill them with fresh butter; sprinkle well with 
powdered sugar, and brown in the oven. Before serving, 
garnish the centre of each apple, with either a dried cherry or 
some jam. 

Lobster butter. 

Pound the spawn of a lobster with some fresh butter, if you 
have not enough spawn use a little of the red skin of the meat 
as the butter must be of a good red colour, pass through a 
fine hair sieve, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 51 



FEBRUARY 20. 

MENU EN MAIGUS. BILL OP FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage pur^ de navets \ la cr^me. Pur^e of turnips with cream. 

Barbue marin^e. Baked brill. 

Bouch^s de homard a la bechamel. Lobster patties li la b^hamel. 
Filets r6tis. Koast pintail. 

Artichauts i I'italienne. Artichokes a I'ltalienne. 

Gateau aux amandes. Almond cake. 

Baked briU. 

Clean your brill, make several deep cuts across the back, 
and soak for two hours in olive oil, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
chives, a laurel leaf and the juice of a lemon. Dip into melted 
butter, sprinkle with salt, bread-crumbs, and bake. When done 
dish up on a pur^e of either sorrel or tomatoes. 

IiObiiter patties. 

Prepare the paste the same as for oyster patties (see 30th 
of January). Boil a lobster in court-bouillon (see i8th of 
April), chop it up very fine, warm in bechamel sauce, add 
some lobster butter, and pour into the patties. 

Boast pintail. 

Cook the same as roast wild duck. 

Artichokes k I'ltalienne. 

Trim your artichokes, remove the chokes, blanch in boiling 
water, cut into quarters, lay in the bottom of a stew-pan and 
boil in white wine, butter, and lemon juice; when done, drain 
and dish up, covered with white Italian sauce for fast day, which 
is done by making it with cream instead of stock (see 13th 
of October). 



£ 2 



52 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY 21. 

Potage ^ la pur^e de haricots. Pur^e of haricot beans. 

Morue aux pommes de terre. Cod with potatoes. 

Noix de veau en fricandeau. Fricandeau of veal. 

Terrine de Nerac. N^rac pit^. (Game pie from the 

south of France.) 
Choux-fleurs au gratin. Baked cauhflower with bread- 

crumbs. 
Omelette soufflee. Omelet souffle. 

Cod and potatoes. 

Boil the cod in salt and water, when done, simmer in 
bechamel sauce (see i6th of August), and serve with slices of 
potato fried in boiling lard. 

Fried potatoes. 

Cut your potatoes into thin slices and plunge into boiling 
lard or butter, let it boil over two or three times, sprinkle 
with salt and white pepper, drain, and serve very hot. 

Fricandeau of veaL 

Choose a fine chump of veal, lard one side with thick 
fillets of bacon and the other side with fine ones, simmer 
for two or three hours in a stew-pan, with stock, salt, pepper, 
onions, carrots, a bouquet of herbs, two heads of cloves, trim- 
mings of beef and bacon, moisten occasionally with its own 
gravy, when done remove the veal, pass the sauce through a 
tammy, skim off the grease and reduce, when quite thick brown 
the veal in it. Dish up the fricandeau ; add a little glaze and 
stock to the sauce, and either pour it over the veal or keep it to 
flavour a purde of spinach or sorrel, which must be served 
with the veal. 



\ 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 53 



FEBRUARY 22. 

Potage de riz au kari. Curry soup with rice. 

Alose grillee ^ Toseille. Broiled shad and sorrel. 

Poitrine de mouton brais^e. Braised breast of mutton. 
Canard sauvage r6ti. Roast wild duck. 

CEufs farcis i la creme. Stuffed eggs with cream. 
Pommes en croustarde. Open apple tart. 

Broiled shad and sorrel. 

Thoroughly clean and wash your fish, make several slits down 
each side, and warm for a quarter of an hour in a saucepan with 
olive oil, salt, pepper, and a laurel leaf; fill the slits with butter 
mixed with finely-chopped herbs, bake in the oven, and serve 
on a pur^e of sorrel. You can also broil it on a gridiron, in 
which case the slits must not be filled with butter. 



Stuffed eg-firs "v^ith cream. 

Shell some hard-boiled eggs, cut them in half, lengthways ; 
scoop out the yolks, and pound with the same quantity of 
butter as there are yolks, a lump of bread-crumb soaked in milk, 
finely-chopped parsley and chives, salt, a pinch of grated nut- 
meg, the same quantity of mixed spice and two or three raw 
yolks of egg ; when well pounded, pass through a fine sieve, 
spread a layer of this stuffing on a dish, fill the empty whites 
of egg with the remainder, and brown in the oven, pour some 
bechamel sauce (see i6th of August), made with double 
cream, over them, and serve. 



54 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY 23. 

Potage k la cr^me d'orge. Pur^e of barky. 

Rate au beurre noir. Skate, black butter sauce. 

Poulets k la bonne femme. Chicken k la bonne femme. 

Rosbif ^ Tanglaise. Roast beef. 

Pommes de terre saut^es. Fried potatoes. 

CEufs "k Idr neige. Poached whites of egg. 

Puree of barley. 
Prepare the same as pur^ of rice (see 27th of February). 

Chickens d la bonne femme. 

Cut up your fowls into joints ; warm four ounces of chopped 
carrots, and the same quantity of onions in some butter, when 
brown, add the pieces of fowl, season with salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of grated nutmeg, toss over the fire for ten minutes \ stir 
in two tablespoonfuls of flour and five minutes after add a 
tumblerful of stock, a wineglass of white wine, a bouquet of 
mixed herbs, and half a pound of peeled tomatoes with all the 
pips carefully removed. Cook over a slow fire for twenty-five 
minutes, add two punnets of mushrooms, peeled and cut up to 
the size of a florin, leave on the fire for ten minutes, take out 
the bouquet of herbs, season with an ounce of finely-chopped 
parsley, dish up the pieces of chicken in a pyramid and pour 
the sauce and vegetables over them. 

Puree of onions 4 la bretonne. 

Brown your onions over a slow fire in butter and salt, when 
a good colour stir in a little flour, moisten with good stock, 
reduce and pass through a tammy. If required for soup, some 
stock must be added to the purde, and fiied bread handed 
with it. 



THE 2fi(i BILLS OF f ARE. 55 



FEBRUARY 24. 

Potage julienne. Julienne soup. 

Truite au court-bouillon. Trout boiled in court-bouillon. 
Jambon d'York k Tanglaise. York ham. 

Pigeons r6tis. Roast pigeons. 

Champignons fards. Stuffed mushrooms. 

Gdteau ^ la cr^me. Cream cake. 

Trout boiled in oonrt-booillon. 

Boil your trout in court-bouillon (see i8th of April) ; when 
done, drain and lay on a dish, on which you have placed a 
napkin and a bed of fresh parsley; reduce the sauce, thicken 
with a litde flour, and hand in a sauceboat. 

Tork haxxx. 

Cook the same as roast ham (see 21st of April), and serve 
with stewed spinach. 

Braised leer of mutton. 

Bone a leg of mutton, leave the end of the bone, to use 
as a handle, lard with thick fillets of bacon, seasoned with 
mixed spices, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and eschalots, 
tie or skewer up the mutton to its original form. Line a 
braising-pan with slices of beef, six carrots, and the same num- 
ber of onions, add the mutton, moisten with stock and half a 
tumblerful of brandy, season with laurel leaves, thyme, three 
heads of cloves, and two heads of garlic, cover with a sheet of 
buttered paper, and simmer for five hours with hot coals on the 
lid of the braising-pan ; when done, drain the mutton and glaze 
it, serve with its own sauce passed through a tammy and 
cleared of all grease, or with a pur^e of chicory. 

Chooolate or coffee fflaze for cakes. 

Boil a pound of sugar in half-a-pint of water in a preserving- 
pan ; when a thick syrup, stir in either some powdered chocolate 
dissolved in a little water, or some strong cofifee ; glaze your 
biscuits or cake with this, and place in the meat-screen until set. 



56 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



FEBRUARY 25. 



Potage aux choux. 

Petit sale aux choux. 

Langue de veau sauce tomates. 

Pluviers ou vanneaux rotis. 

Cardons ^ la moelle. 

Madeleines. 



Cabbage soup. 

Salt pork and cabbage. 

Calf s tongue, tomato sauce. 

Roast plover or lapwings. 

Stewed' cardoons and marrow. 

Madeleine cakes. 



Cabbagre soup. 

• Boil a piece of salt pork in water for an hour; add a 
blanched cabbage cut into quarters, carrots, turnips, leeks, 
celery, an onion stuck with a head of clove, pepper, and a 
saveloy, simmer over a slow fire for four hours ; when ready to 
serve, pour the soup oyer slices of bread in a soup-tureen, 
hand the vegetables and pork in a separate dish. 

Salt pork and cabbagre. 
See above for recipe. 

CalTs tonerue with tomato sauce. 

Trim and scald your tongue, and leave until cold ; lard it 
with fillets of bacon well seasoned with mixed spice and 
chopped herbs, simmer in a stew-pan for four hours, in stock 
seasoned with a bouquet of mixed herbs, two carrots, two 
onions, and three heads of cloves ; when done, split the 
tongue in half, skin it and serve, covered with tomato sauce. 

Boast plover. 

These birds must never be drawn, but wrapped up in slices of 
bacon and roasted. Lay some pieces of toast in the dripping- 
pan, and serve the plover on them. 

Pur^e of chicory with cream. 

Prepare the same as pur^e of chicory (see 17th of February), 
but before serving stir in some cream, a lump of fresh butter, 
and a little flour. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 57 



FEBRUARY 26. 

Potage puree de pois au riz. Pur^e of peas with rice. 

Brandade de morue. Cream of salt cod. 

Aloyau braise ^ la royale. Braised sirloin of beef ^ la royale. 

Poulet r6ti. Roast chickens. 

Artichauts frits. Fried artichokes. 

Biscuit glac^ au chocolat. Savoy cake glazed with chocolate. 

Puree of peas with rice. 

Make a pur^e of peas (see 23rd of January), when your soup 
is ready to serve, add some boiled rice to it. 

Pickled cabbagre "with oysters. 

Soak the pickled cabbage in boiling water for ten minutes, 
drain and dry in a cloth. Boil, in stock, a little dripping and 
coarse black pepper ; when cooked, arrange round a dish, and 
fill the centre with stewed oysters (see 8th of April). 

Braised sirloin of beef k la royale. 

Bone your sirloin and roll it ; lard with plenty of fillets of 
bacon, place in a braising-pan and braise (see 28th of May) ; as 
soon as it boils, make a smaller fire and simmer for four hours ; 
take out the beef and reduce the sauce to a glaze, pass through 
a tammy and skim off all grease. Warm the beef in this sauce, 
and serve covered with it. 

Sweet spinach. 

Cook your spinach in fresh butter ; when done, stir in some 
pounded maccaroons, sugar, grated lemon-peel, and a pinch 
of salt. Hand sponge fingers with this dish. 

Savoy or spongre cake grlazed with chocolate. 

Make a Savoy cake (see 13th of August), and glaze with 
chocolate (see 24th of February). 



58 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



FEBRUARY 27. 

Potage k la pur^e d'oignons bretonne. Puree of onions k la bretonne. 

Quartier d'agneau farci. Stuffed forequarter of lamb. 

Oie eh daube. Cold braised goose. 

GoujoDS frits. Fried gudgeon. 

Asperges en branche. Boiled asparagus. 

Flan de crSne ^ la frangipane. Marrow frangipane tart 

Pnr^e of riee. 

Boil some rice in chicken broth for an hour, pass through a 
tammy, add the necessary quantity of stock, season with salt 
and pepper, warm and serve with dice of fried bread. 

Cold braised groose. 

Truss your goose for boiling, and cover it with slices of bacon 
well seasoned with finely-chopped parsley, chives, eschalots, 
half a head of garlic, thyme, sage, pepper, and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg. Peel some roasted chestnuts, warm them in 
fresh butter, and fill the goose with them ; line a braisihg-pan 
with slices of bacon, put in the goose, cover with more bacon, 
and moisten with equal quantities of water, stock, and white 
wine ; surround the goose with pieces of knuckle of veal, four 
carrots, four onions, four heads of cloves, a parsnip, whole 
black peppers, mixed spices, and a bouquet of herbs. Simmer 
for four hours ; when done, place the goose on a dish ; skim 
all grease off the sauce, pass it through a tammy, reduce, and 
leave until cold, when it will become a jelly ; garnish the goose 
with it, and serve. 

Uarrow frangripajie taxt. 

See 4th of December. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 59 



FEBRUARY a8. 

Potage anx laitues. Lettuce soup, 

Maquereaux bouillis.. Boiled mackereL 

C6telettes de mouton \ la jardiniere. Mutton cutlets ^ la jardim^re. 

Canetons de Rouen r6tis. Roast duckling. 

Laitue ^ la flamande. Stufied lettuce. 

Gateau de pistaches. Pistachio cake. 

Lettuce soup. 

Blanch your lettuces and drain them, simmer over a slow 
fire in a little stock, and leave until they have absorbed all the 
liquid, after which add the required quantity of soup, and when 
hot pour into a soup-tureen, on slices of bread. 

Uutton outlets d la Jardiniere. 

Trim the cutlets, melt some fresh butter in a shallow sauce- 
pan, add the cutlets, and season with salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of grated nutmeg, when done on one side, turn the cutlets ; as 
soon as they are thoroughly cooked, arrange them round an 
entree dish, and garnish the centre with the following vege- 
tables : Take some button mushrooms, french beans, green 
peas, young carrots, and turnips, cut into small balls, and boil 
in stock; moisten some brown thickening with stock and 
simmer the vegetables in it until the sauce is quite thick ; 
place a fine white head of boiled cauliflower in the centre of 
the cutlets, and surround with these vegetables. 

Vefiretable salad and smoked salmon. 

Prepare the same way as Russian salad (see 31st of October), 
leaving out the partridge and chicken. 



6o THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



FEBRUARY 29. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Pur^e de pois verts au riz. Pur^e of green peas and rice. 

Cabillaud ^ la hollandaise. Cod ^ la hollandaise. 

Choucroute aux huftres. Pickled cabbage and oysters. 

Ecrevisses en buisson. Crayfish. 
Salade de legumes gamie de saumon Vegetable salad with smoked sal- 

fum?. mon. 

Blanc- manger. Blanc-mange. 

Pur^e of haricot beans. 

Prepare the same aspur^e of haricot beans (see 2nd of July), 
but for fast days use cream or milk instead of stock. 

Blanc-xnangre of almonds. 

Blanch one pound of sweet almonds and half an ounce of 
bitter almonds, soak in cold water, so as to make them per- 
fectly white, pound in a mortar and moisten gradually with two 
pints of milk, squeeze through a cloth into a bowl. Dissolve 
two ounces of gelatine and three quarters of a pound of sugar 
in a pint and a half of water, when cold add to the milk of 
almonds, flavour with a little orange-flower water, pour into a 
mould and place in the refrigerator for two hours, by which 
time it will have set. 

Uusliroonis on toast. 

Peel your mushrooms and place in a saucepan with a lump 
of fresh butter, chopped parsley and chives, salt, black pepper, 
a pinch of grated nutmeg and some stock, toss them until 
cooked. Butter some round slices of crust of bread, toast 
them, and place on a dish. Thicken the sauce of the mush- 
rooms with yolks of ^g%^ squeeze some lemon juice over them, 
and dish up on the pieces of toast. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 61 



MARCH I. 

Potage \ la pur^e de lentilles. Pur^e of lentils. 

Carpe k I'etuv^e. Stewed carp. 

Cote de boeuf braisee au macaroni. Braised ribs of beef with maccaroni. 

Accolade de lapereaux r6tis. Brace of young rabbits roasted. 

Artichauts k la bonne femme. Artichokes ^ la bonne femme. 

Tartelettes de pommes. Apple tartlets. 

Stewed oarp. 

Warm some fresh butter, a pinch of flour, and a few young 
onions in a stew-pan ; when brown, add your carp cut into thick 
slices, moisten with stock and red wine, and season with 
butter, parsley, chives, eschalots, thyme, laurel leaves, mush- 
rooms, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and young onions, stew 
over a quick fire, and serve, garnished with fried sippets of 
bread 

Braised ribs of beef witli xnaooaroni. 

Bone and roll the ribs of beef, and braise with white wine (see 
28th of May) ; when cooked, remove the beef, pass the sauce 
through a tammy, skim off all fat, pour into a sauceboat, and 
add the remaining half to some boiled maccaroni, season with 
salt, pepper, a lump of fresh butter, and grated Parmesan 
or Gruybre cheese ; place on a dish, and lay the ribs of beef 
on it. 

Artichokes d la bonne femme. 

Trim the artichokes, and boil in boiling salt and water ; when 
done, plunge them into cold water, cut out the chokes and 
warm them in boiling water, drain, and dish up, well-covered 
with white sauce (see 23rd of August). 



62 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 2. 

Potage brunoise anx p&tes d'ltalie. Brunoise soup with Italian paste. 

Ch&teaubriand grille. Broiled fillets of beef ^ la Chateau- 
briand. 

Croquettes de poisson. Fish croquettes. 

Y%X.i de foies gras PHt^ of foie gras. 

Asperges en branches. Asparagus. 

Chartreuse de po^pmes. Apple chartreuse or marmalade. 

• 

Broiled fillets of beef ^ la Chatean'brland. 

Cut your fillets at least two inches thick, soak in oil for an 
hour and broil. Serve with Chateaubriand sauce (see 21st of 
March), and garnish with fried potatoes and truflfles. 

Apple chartreiuse or maxznalade. 

Peel twenty fine cooking apples, scoop out- the cores, cut 
them in half and slice them, boil a third of them in water, 
cuffar and a pinch of safiron, drain, and boil the other third with 
cochineal, and the remainder in plain sugar and water, line a 
mould with buttered paper, stick some thin strips of angelica 
round the sides in any pattern you may fancy, place the different 
coloured slices of apple in rings round the mould and fill the 
centre with a marmalade made from the apple trimmings, turn 
out of the mould, and serve. If a white chartreuse is preferred, 
• ijjg apples must be soaked in lemon juice and water before 
|)eiDg cooked. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 63 



MARCH 3. 



Consomm^ aux profiteroles. Clear soup with profit rolls. 

Brochet sauce aux dlpres. Pike with caper sauce. 

Chou farci. Stuffed cabbage. 

Selle de mouton rdtie. Roast saddle of mutton. 

Pur^e de haricots. Pur^e of haricot beans. 

Omelette souffl^e. Omelet souffle 



SttLifed oabbaffe. 

Choose a large white, close cabbage, take off all the hard 
green outside leaves, and blanch it ; cut out the heart and press 
between two plates to squeeze out all water. Make a stuffing 
with finely-minced sausage-meat, four yolks of t%g and marrow, 
mix well together and spread a teaspoonful between each leaf, 
tie up the cabbage to its original shape — be careful not to cut the 
leaves with the string — simmer over a slow fire in stock, season 
with a bouquet of herbs, onions, a saveloy, carrots, a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, salt, and black pepper, cover the whole with 
slices of bacon ; shake the st6w-pan occasionally so that the 
cabbage may not stick to the bottom and get burnt. Dish up 
the cabbage after cutting off the string. Pass the sauce through 
a tammy, clear of all grease, stir in a little thin browning, and 
pour over the cabbage. 



I 



64 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 4. 

Pot age \ la fran^aise. French soup. 

Boeuf bouilli sauce Robert. Boiled beef with Robert sauce. 

Poularde en entree de broche. Roast fowl with tomato sauce. 

Carpes frites. Fried carp. 

Choux de Bruxelles au beurre. Brussels sprouts with butter. 

Biscuit glac^ au chocolat. Savoy or sponge cake glazed with 



chocolate. 



Bobert sauce. 



Brown some slices of onion in butter, and add a little flour. 
Moisten with stock, white wine, and a few drops of vinegar, boil 
for half an hour, skim ofif all grease, season with salt and 
pepper, stir in a teaspoonful of mustard, and serve. 

Boast fc^l 'with tomato sauce. 

Choose a fine fowl, stuff it with butter mixed with the juice 
of a lemon and a little salt, truss as if for boiling. Rub the 
breast with lemon juice, sprinkle with salt and pepper, lay 
slices of lemon on it, with no peel or pips, wrap up in slices of 
bacon and a buttered sheet of paper, roast on the spit with the 
back of the fowl nearest the fire ; it will take about an hour to 
cook ; remove the bacon, &c., and serve with tomato sauce. 

Brill, bechamel sauce. 

Cook a brill in salt and water over a slow fire ; do not let it 
boil, or the fish will break ; drain it, and serve with bechamel 
sauce (see i6th of August) in a sauceboat. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 65 



.MARCH 5. 



Potage bruuoise. Brunoise soup. 

Alose ^ la hoilandaise. • Boiled shad, Hollandaise sauce. 

Pigeons en ragoiit d'^crevisses. Stewed pigeons and crayfish. 

Rosbif en broche. Roast beef. 

Salsifis frits. Fried salsifis. 

Meringues k la cr^me. Meringues with cream. 



Boiled shad, Hollandaise sauce. 

Clean out the shad by the gills, but do not scale it. Boil in 
salt and water, when quite boiling make a smaller fire and 
simmer for half-an-hour. Dish up, garnished with fresh parsley 
and boiled potatoes. Hand some Hollandaise sauce separately. 

Stewed pigreons with crayflsh. 

Blanch your pigeons and beat the backs so as to spread out 
the breasts, boil in equal quantities of stock and white wine, 
and season with salt and pepper, a bouquet of parsley, chives, 
and two heads of cloves ; when done take them out of the stew- 
pan and cook some mushrooms, twelve shelled crayfish, and a 
little flour in the sauce of the pigeons, boil for half an hour, 
reduce and thicken the sauce with yolks of egg and cream, 
season with finely-chopped parsley and a pinch of grated nut- 
naeg, pour over the pigeons, and serve, garnished with the heads 
of the crayfish. 



66 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 6. 

Potage au vermicelle. Vermicelli soup. 

Filets de soles 4 ritalienne. Fillets of sole, Italian sauce. 

Pluviers rdtis en entr^ de broche. Roast plovo: with stewed mush- 
rooms. 

Rognon de veau roti. Roast calTs kidney. 

Aspeiges k la sauce blanche. Asparagus with white sauce. 

Souffle de riz. Rice souffle. 



Boast plover with stewed miudirooms. 

Choose some young fat golden plover ; chop up the trail 
with parsley, eschalots, salt, pepper, and scraped bacon, stuflf 
the plover with it, cover with slices of bacon and buttered 
sheets of paper, and roast. When done, serve on stewed 
mushrooms (see 27th of Npvember). 

Asparagus with white sauce. 

Scrape and wash some fine heads of asparagus, tie them up 
into small bundles, cook in boiling salt and water, take off the 
fire before the asparagus becomes too soft, serve with white 
sauce, handed separately. 

Bioe sonffl^. 

Boil seven ounces of rice flour in a pint of milk with a little 
sugar and some pounded maccaroons, stir until it becomes a 
thick smooth paste, flavour with vanilla or lemon, add four 
or five yolks of ^%%^ whip up the whites of the eggs and stir 
them in, pour into a souffle dish, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. A potato souffle is pre- 
pared in the same manner, only potato flour is used instead 
of rice. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 67 



MARCH 7. 

Potage paysanne. Peasant soup 

Lamproie a I'italienne. Lampreys ^ I'itaiienne. 

Culotte de boeuf brais^. Braised mmp-steak. 

Volaille r6tie. Roast fowl. 

Pommes de terre 4 I'anglaise, Potatoes 4 I'anglaise. 

Cr^me k la vanille. Vanilla cream. 

ItampreT a I'ltallenue. 

Fillet a fine lamprey and stew in a tumblerful of white wine, 
a wine-glass of olive oil, chopped young onions, mixed herbs 
and four heads of garlic, when boiling add the juice of a 
lemon, and reduce the sauce. The garlic can be omitted if 
not liked. 

Potatoes 2k PAnfflalse. 

Peel your potatoes and boil in salt and water. Melt a 
lump of fresh butter in a saucepan, ^lice the potatoes, warm in 
the butter, season with salt and pepper, and serve. Do not 
let the butter clarify. 

Flemish famish. 

This garnish is composed of knuckle of ham, bacon, sausages, 
german sausage, carrots, turnips, and glazed onions. The 
larger part of the garnish is composed of well boiled white 
cabbages, which have been thoroughly dried in a saucepan ; 
brussels sprouts can also be used. This is an excellent garnish 
for a rump-steak, a fillet of beef, or a roast ham. 



F 2 



68 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



MARCH 8. 

Potage de riz Cr^cy. Pur^e of carrot and rice. 

Gigot bouilli sauce aux cypres. Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce. 
Anguille ^ I'anglaise. Eel \ Tanglaise. 

Vanneaux r6tis. Roast lapwings. 

C^leri-rave ^ la demi-glace. Glazed celery roots. 

Beignets de pommes 4 la d'Orl^ans. Apple fritters ^ la d'Orl^ans. 

Eel, Engrlish fashion. 

Soak some thick slices of eel for twenty- four hours in vinegar, 
salt, pepper, and the peel of two or three lemons ; dry them 
in a cloth and either roll in some very thin paste or dip into 
batter, fiy until a good colour. Reduce some stock until thick, 
add the juice of a lemon, stir in some anchov}'', and hand in a 
sauceboat with the fried eel. 

Boast lapwinfiTS. 

Do not draw your lapwings, wrap them up in slices of bacon 
and a buttered sheet of paper ; lay some slice of fried bread in 
the dripping-pan, roast the birds and serve on bread. Lap- 
wing's eggs are very excellent to eat and difficult to procure. 

Apple fritters k la d' Orleans. 

Roll out some brioche paste (see 24th of December), peel 
and scoop out the cores of some cooking apples, cut them in 
half, stew in s)Tup, drain and leave until cold. Roll each 
piece in some of the paste, and plunge into boiling lard. 

Skate with black butter sauce. 

Boil the skate in salt and water, place in a dish, and cover 
with black butter sauce. Garnish with pickled gherkins and 
fried parsley. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 69 



MARCH 9. 

Potage Cond^ Cond^ soup. 

Carpe gamie d'un ragoiit de lait- Carp with stewed roe. 
ances. 

Jambon ^ la choucroute. Ham and pickled cabbage. 

Caneton de Rouen r6ti. Roast duckling. 

Artichauts frits. Fried artichokes. 

Tartelettes ^ la vanille. Vanilla tartlets. 



Fried axtlohokes. 

Cut your artichokes into slices lengthways, remove the 
chokes, cut off the tops of the leaves, trim the bottoms, wash 
them in vinegar and water, drain them and dip into a thin 
paste, made of eggs, flour, cream, pepper, salt, and half a wine- 
glass of brandy ; fry in either olive oil or lard ; serve garnished 
with fried parsley and sprinkled with salt. 

Vaxiilla tartlets. 

Pound five ounces of Jordan almonds and the same quantity 
of sugar in a mortar, add one ounce of powdered sugar and 
some vanilla sugar. Whip up six whites of egg, add the 
almonds and sugar ; line your tartlet-pans with some light paste 
and fill with the whipped eggs, bake in a slow oven, glaze with 
some white sugar, and serve either hot or cold. 



70 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage \ la Monaco. White soup ^ la Monaco. 

Alose grill^e ^ Toseille. Broiled shad and sorrel. 
Salmis de pilets. Salmis of pintail. 

Brochet farci et r6ti. Stuffed roast pike. 

CEufs ^ la tripe. Eggs \ la tnpe. 

Giteau de nz. Rice cake. 

White soup a la Uonaco. 
Cut up some bread into slices, sprinkle with powdered sugar, 
toast and place them in a soup-tureen, sprinkle with salt ; pour 
some boiling cream or milk, thickened with yolks of egg, over 
the toast, and serve. 

Broiled shad with sorrel. 

Soak your shad for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with 
mixed herbs, salt, and pepper. Broil on the gridiron, moisten 
with the oil in which it was soaked, and serve on a purde of 
sorrel (see 23rd of December). 

Stuffed roast pike. 

Keep your pike for two days after catching ; scale, draw it, 
and lard with fillets of anchovies and gherkins, and stuff with egg 
stuffing (see i6th of December). Spread some branches of 
mixed herbs, sprinkled with mixed spice and salt, on a large 
sheet of buttered paper, in which wrap the pike, fasten it on 
with skewers and roast, baste with white wine and melted butter. 
Serve with thick piquante sauce (see 26th of June). 

NTin's sigrhs. 

Warm a lump of butter the size of a walnut, a lump of sugar, 
a little lemon-peel, and a pinch of salt in a tumblerful of water, 
let it boil over two or three times ; stir in some flour until it 
becomes a thick paste, and continue stirring until it is cooked, 
which you can tell, if the paste does not stick to your finger; 
leave in the saucepan until cold, then stir in one egg at a 
time until it is thin enough to drop out of a spoon. Take 
a dessert spoon and drop lumps of the paste about the size of a 
walnut into lard which is not quite boiling, take out when 
swollen to four times their original size and of a golden colour. 
Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot ; they are also very nice cold. 
The flavouring can be varied by omitting the lemon-peel and 
stirring in a little orange-flower water with the first egg. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 71 



MARCH II. 

Consomm^ aux croiltes grill^es. Soup with baked bread-crusts. 

Poule au pot. Fowl boiled in stock. 

Saut^ de lapereaux. Young rabbits fried. 

Rosbif r&ti. Roast beef. 

Choux-fleurs gratings au Parmesan. Baked cauliflowers with Parmesan 

cheese. 

Cr^me au chocolat. Chocolate cream. 

Powl boiled in stock. 

Cook your fowl in uncleared stock after the vegetables have 
been put in (see ist of July), simmer until sufficiently done, 
serve sprinkled with coarse salt, and hand some bourgeoise sauce 
in a sauceboat. 

TonnfiT rabbits fried. 

Cut up your rabbits into joints, soak in water and dry in a 
cloth to remove all blood, warm some butter seasoned with 
mixed spices, salt, and pepper in a frying-pan, toss the pieces 
of rabbit in it until quite firm, sprinkle with chopped parsley 
and eschalots, leave on the fire for a few minutes, and serve. 
Only very young rabbits can be used for this dish. 

Chocolate cream. 

Stir two ounces of powdered sugar into a pint of double 
cream, boil until reduced toabout half the quantity; when cold, 
add the yolks of three eggs, and two ounces of finely-grated 
chocolate ; cook in a bain-marie ; when done, pour into a glass 
dish, and serve cold. 

Chocolate flngrers with cream.. 

Make some paste, the same as for nun's sighs (see loth of 
March), only keep it thick enough to roll out and cut into the 
shape of ladies' fingers ; bake in the oven, glaze with chocolate 
(see 24th of February), and fill with chocolate cream. 



72 



THE 366- BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 12. 



Potage au tapioca. 
Cabillaud ^ la hollandaise. 
Poularde ^ la bourgeoise. 

Gigot d'agneau roti. 

Champignons au gratin. 

Gateau de semoule ^ la cr^me. 



Tapioca soup. 

Cod k la hollandaise. 

Boiled fowl, bourgeoise sauce. 

Roast leg of lamb. 

Baked mushrooms. 

Semolina cake with cream. 



Ood 4 la Hollandaise. 

Clean out your cod, fill it with coarse salt, tub the sides 
and sprinkle them with fine salt, and leave in a cool place 
for three or four hours. Two hours before cooking it, wash 
the cod, make several slits down the back, tie a string round 
the head, and soak in milk and water. Boil in boiling salt 
and water, add two pints of boiling milk, and leave on the 
fire for three-quarters of an hour, if a very large fish it will 
take a little longer to cook. When done dish up on a napkin, 
garnished with boiled potatoes and fresh parsley. Melt some 
fresh butter in a bain-marie, season with salt, pepper, a pinch 
of mixed spice, and the juice of a lemon ; hand in a sauceboat 
with the cod. 

Gamisli d la G-odard. 

This is used chiefly for garnishing roast turkeys, fat pullets or 
a fillet of beef. Boil some large truffles, cockscombs and sweet- 
breads larded with fillets of truffles in stock, season with salt 
and pepper, cook some large quenelles (see 3rd of September) 
in the same stock and garnish your dish. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 73 



MARCH 13. 

Potage au macaroni avec Parmesan. Maccaroni soup with Parmesan 

cheese. 

£paule de mouton en ballon aux Braised shoulder of mutton and 
oignons glacis. glazed onions. 

Poulet ^ la chasseur. Grilled chicken k la Chasseur. 

Pite de saumon, ou poissons frits. Salmon pie or fried fish. 

Salade de pommes de terre. Potato salad. 

l^clairs aux oeufs. Chocolate fingers with cream. 

Braised shoulder of mutton and fflazed onions. 

Bone your shoulder of mutton, leaving the stump to use as 
a handle, lard with bacon well seasoned with chopped herbs, 
salt, and pepper, roll the mutton into the shape of a balloon, 
and sew together with a trussing-needle. Line a braising-pan 
with slices of bacon, put in the shoulder of mutton, add the 
shoulder-bone, some carrots, onions, two heads of cloves, 
laurel-leaves, thyme, and some stock ; cover with slices of bacon 
and a buttered sheet of paper, and simmer over a slow fire. 
When done, cut the string with which it has been sewn to- 
gether, and dish up, garnished with glazed onions (see 14th of 
January). 

Grilled chicken k la Chasseur. 

If possible procure some young chickens for this dish, split 
them down the back and beat until flat ; if you have large 
fowls, they must be cut up into joints. Soak for an hour in 
olive oil, seasoned with salt, pepper, slices of onion, parsley, 
and lemon juice ; bread-crumb lightly, and grill on a gridiron ; 
if cut up into joints, dish up in a pyramid. Add some slices 
of fried onion and chopped ham to some Madeira sauce (see 
19th of August), and pour over the grilled chicken. 



74 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 14. 

Potage cr^me de riz ^ la peluche de Pur6e of rice with chervil. 
cerfeuiL 

Esturgeon au court-bouillon. Stewed stui^geon. 

Langue de boeuf au gratin. Baked ox-tongue. 

Canards sauvage rotis. Roast wild duck. 

Asperges i 1 huile. Asparagus with oil and vin^;ar. 

Omelette au rhum. Rum omelet. 



Stewed stiirereon. 

Choose either a small sturgeon, or have a slice from a large 
one, boil in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), cover the lid 
of the saucepan with hot coals, moisten the fish occasionally 
with the sauce in which it is boiling, and serve with Italian 
sauce, to which add some of the fish liquor reduced, and a 
pinch of cayenne pepper. 

Baked ox-tongrue. 

Trim your tongue and braise it (see 28th of May) ; when 
cooked, skin it, and leave until cold. Cut it up into thick 
slices. Pound the crumb of a stale loaf in a mortar, with 
some chopped parsley, chives, three eschalots, a few tarragon- 
leaves, capers, an anchovy, and fresh butter, cover the bottom 
of a plated or tin dish with half of this stuffing, lay the slices 
of tongue on it, and cover with the remaining half; sprinkle 
with a little melted butter and stock, and bake, serve when a 
good colour. 

AsparafiTOB with oil and vinegar. 

Cook the same as asparagus (see 6th of March), but hand 
oil and vinegar with it, instead of white sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 75 



MARCH 15. 

Potage ^ la parisienne. Parisian soup. 

Boeuf \ la mode. Boeuf i la mcxle. 

Pluviers en salmis. Salmis of plover. 

Alose r6tie. Roast shad. 

Pet its pois nouveaux ^ I'anglaise. Green peas ^ I'anglaise. 
Crapes. Pancakes. 

Soast shad. 

You must have a fine, fat shad to be able to cook it in this 
manner. Clean and scale your fish, make several slits down 
the sides, do not cut too deep, and soak for an hour in olive 
oil, season with salt, pepper, parsley, chives, and thyme ; turn 
the fish several times whilst soaking, roast, and baste it with 
the olive oil. Dish up on a napkin, and garnish with fresh 
parsley. The best manner to carve such a large fish is to make 
a deep incision down the back from head to tail, and then to 
cut off slices down the side ; ten good helpings ought to be cut 
off a shad twenty-five inches long without touching the inferior 
parts of the fish. Cut off the fins before serving. The roe 
of the sturgeon is excellent 

Elllets of sole with Italian sauce. 

Fry the fillets in hot melted butter, when done, cover with 
Italian sauce (see 13th of October). 

Tartare sauce. 

Take three tablespoonfuls of bdchamel sauce (see i6th of 
August), stir in a bowl with two yolks of egg, a little salt, pepper, 
and grated nutmeg ; when well mixed, add some olive oil, drop ' 
by drop, until the sauce is quite thick, flavour with a few drops 
of tarragon, add a little finely-chopped chervil, tarragon,* and 
eschalot. Serve in a sauceboat. 



76 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 16. 

Potage aux pites d'ltalie. Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Carrelets grilles. Broiled plaice. 

Aloyau ^ la Godard. Sirloin of beef k la Godard. 

VolaiUe r6tie. Roast fowl. 

Celeri au jus. Stewed celery. 

Parfait au caf^. Coffee blanc-mange. 

Broiled plaice. 

Clean and wash your fish, dip into olive oil, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, place a mat of straw reeds, like those used for 
cream cheeses, on the gridiron, broil the fish on it over a slow 
fire ; when done, cover with caper sauce (see 3rd of May). 

Sirloin of beef a la G-odard. 

Trim and bone your sirloin, roll the topside and tie round 
with string, put it in a braising-pan and braise (see 28th of 
May). When the beef is cooked, place it on a dish, pass the 
vegetables and sauce through a tammy, skim ofif all grease and 
warm in a saucepan with a little stock, sliced sweet-breads, some 
bottoms of artichokes cut into quarters, button mushrooms, 
and add at the last some fried eggs. Garnish the beef with 
it, and serve. 

Cream, quenelles. , 

Warm a lump of butter the size of a walnut, a pinch of black 
pepper, some grated nutmeg, and a tumblerful of cream, let it 
boil over two or three times, stir in some flour until it becomes 
a thick paste, leave until cold, add one egg at a time until the 
paste is thin enough to drop out of a spoon, take a teaspoonful 
at a time of the paste and drop into boiling water. When 
poached the quenelles will be ready to serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



77 



MARCH 17. 



Consomm^ aux quenelles. 

Truite ^ la Chambord. 

Lapereau en papillote. 

Selle d'agneau roti, cresson. 

Epinards au velout^. 
Tourte ^ la cr^me d'amandes. 



Clear soup with quenelles. 
■ Trout ^ la Chambord. 
Broiled young rabbits in cases. 
Roast saddle of lamb and water- 
cresses. 
Spinach with velout^ sauce. 
Open tart with almond cream. 



Trent a la Chambord. 

Plunge the trout into boiling water and skin them, after 
which wash them thoroughly in several waters, drain, and 
cook in wine marinade sauce (see 3rd of December), when 
done, drain and place on a dish. Cook some larded sweet- 
breads, fish quenelles, and crayfish in financifere sauce (see 27th 
of December), and garnish the trout with them. 

Broiled youner rabbits in cases. 

Cut up the rabbits into joints, remove all the larger bones, 
and cover each piece with the following stuffing : take some 
stale grated bread-crumb, scraped bacon, finely-chopped parsley, 
eschalots, mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a head of garlic, mix 
well together. Cover each piece with a slice of bacon, and 
wrap up in a case of buttered paper, broil over a slow fire, and 
serve in the cases. 

Boast saddle of lamb. 

Roll and skewer the flanks of the saddle, wrap it up in 
buttered sheets of paper, roast for an hour and a half, baste 
frequently, and serve with its own gravy. 



78 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 18. 



Potage au pain. 

Pi^ce de boeuf sauce tomates. 

Anguille au soleiL 

' Pintades r6ties. 

Petits pois au beurre. 

Meringues ^ la cr^me. 



Bread soup. 

Braised beef with tomato sauce. 

Fried eel. 

Roast guinea fowl. 

Green peas and butter. 

Meringues with cream. 



Fried eel. 

Cut an eel into thick slices, and boil in marinade sauce (see 
3rd of December) ; when cold, drain it, bread-crumb and dip 
into eggs beaten up with salt and pepper, fry the pieces of eel, 
and serve, covered with ravigote sauce (see 29th of May). 

Kerlnfirues with oream. 

Whip up twelve whites of eggs with an egg- whisk until a 
thick cream; stir in a pound of sifted sugar, flavour with 
either essence of vanilla or lime juice, lay some sheets of 
paper on a slab of wood, take a table-spoonful at a time of 
the whipped tg%^ drop on the paper in an oval shape, smooth 
the surface by drawing the spoon quickly over it, sprinkle 
with sifted sugar, and bake in a slow oven until a golden 
colour. When done take the meringues carefully oflf the 
paper, scoop out the centres with a spoon, place them in a 
sieve, and dry in the oven. Just before serving, fill the merin- 
gues with whipped cream, flavoured with either vanilla or 
lemon juice and a little powdered sugar, join two halves 
together, and dish up in a pyramid. 

Gamisli a la flnanoi^e. 

This garnish is composed of fat goose*s liver, kidneys, cocks- 
combs, truffles, and quenelles of fowl, all cooked in Spanish 
sauce (see 3rd of November), with the addition of a wine- 
glassful of sherry; and is mostly used for garnishing fat 
pullets, fowls, or fillets of beef. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 79 



MARCH 19. 

CoDsomm^ aux oeufs poch^s. Clear soup with poached eggs. 

Tanches au court-bouillon. Tench boiled in court -bouillon. 

Tendrons d'agneau aux pointes Braised breasts of lamb and 

d'asperges. asparagus. 

Rosbif k Tanglaise. Roast beef. 

Pommes de terre saut^es. Fried potatoes. 

Cr^me d'amandes. Almond cream. 



Tenoli boiled in ooort-boTiillon. 

Scale and clean your tench, and boil in court-bouillon (see 
1 8th of April); when done, serve with white caper sauce in a 
sauceboat. 

Braised breasts of lamb and asparasras. 

Put two breasts of lamb in a braising-pan, and braise them 
(see 28th of May) ; when cooked, leave in the braising-pan 
until cold ; cut them up into pieces, and cook in a stew-pan 
with some clear stock, leave on the fire until reduced to a 
glaze. Dish up with a fried slice of bread between each piece 
of lamb, and garnish the centre of the dish with stewed 
asparagus (see 28th of April). 

Almond cream. 

Blanch three ounces of Jordan almonds, three bitter almonds, 
and pound them ; stir into a pint of boiling cream, pass through 
a hair sieve, and add three yolks of tgg^ three ounces of 
powdered sugar, and a littie orange-flower water; cook in a 
bain-marie ; when done, pour into a glass dish, and serve cold, 
garnished with burnt almonds. 

Garnish a la Chipolata. 

This garnish is composed of Chipolata sausages, lean bacon, 
peeled roast chestnuts, carrots cut into small round balls, and 
button mushrooms, cooked in Spanish sauce (see 3rd of 
November). 



8o THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 20. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Julienne maigre. Julienne soup for fast day. 

Truite sauce genevoise. Trout, Geneva sauce. 

Macaroni en timbale. Timbale of maccaroni. 

Sarcelles roties. Roast teal. 

Haricots rouges ^ la bourguignonne. Red haricot beans ^ la bourgui* 

gnonne. 

Giteau de riz au caramel. Rice cake with burnt sugar. 

Timbale of maccaroni. 

Boil your maccaroni in salt and water, when done, drain, 
and season with pepper, fresh butter, and equal quantities of 
grated Parmesan and Gruyfere cheese. Line a mould with 
some short paste rolled out very thin, fill with the maccaroni, 
cover with paste, and lay a sheet of buttered paper over it to 
prevent the paste getting burnt, bake in a moderate oven for 
three quarters of an hour, or longer if it is a very large mould ; 
when cooked, turn it out of the mould and serve very hot. 

Bed haricot beans a la bonrfiruigrnonne. 

Boil some red haricot beans in the stock of julienne for 
fast days (see 30th of June), add a lump of butter, a bouquet 
of mixed herbs, and an onion stuck with cloves. When quite 
cooked, remove the onion and bouquet of herbs, and stir in a 
little red wine, salt, and pepper. Serve hot 

Semolina quenelles. 

Stir five yolks of egg, six ounces of fine semolina, salt and 
a pinch of grated nutmeg into six ounces of fresh butter. Take 
a dessert-spoonful at a time of this paste and poach in boiling 
water, when the quenelles will be ready for use. 



THE z(>(i BILLS OF FARE. 8i 



MARCH 21. 

Potage Cr^cy. Puree of carrots. 

Bar ^ I'eau de sel. Boiled bass. 
Cotelettes de pore frais grilles, Pork cutlets with poivrade sauce, 
sauce poivrade. 

Dinde r6t ie. Roast turkey -hen. 

Asperges en branches. Asparagus. 

Pains de la Mecque. Mecca loaves. 

Boiled bM8. 

Clean, scrape, and wash your fish, drain it, and cook in 
warm salt and water ; as soon as it boils, take the fish-pan off 
the fire and place it near enough to the fire for the water to 
simmer for twenty minutes, leave the fish in its liquor until 
time to serve it Dish up on a napkin, garnished with fresh 
parsley and boiled potatoes. 

Poivrade iSauce. 

Take a tumblerful of vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of laurel- 
leaves, the same quantity of thyme and onion, one ounce of 
chopped parsley, one ounce of chopped eschalot, salt, and 
pepper, simmer in a saucepan until reduced, but do not let it 
burn ; stir in an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, and 
some stock, continue stirring for a quarter of an hour, with a 
wooden spoon, take oflf the fire, and serve. 

Ohlkteaubriand sauce. 

Melt some meat glaze in a little white wine, stir in some 
Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November), and when time to serve 
thicken with maitre d'hotel sauce (see 23rd of March). 



82 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 22. 

Potage pur^ de pommes de terre k Pur^e of potatoes with chervU. 
la peluche de cerfeuil. 

Alose i la hollandaise. Boiled shad, hoUandaise sauce. 

C6telettes de mouton aux pointes Mutton cutlets with asparagus, 
d'asperges. 

B^cassines roties. Roast snipe. 

Artichauts 4 la barigoule. Stuffed artichokes i la barigoule. 

Biscuit au beurre. Butter biscuits. 

Puree of rice with chervil. 

Make a pur^e of rice (see 27th of February), stir in the 
necessary quantity of stock, and two tea3poonsful of chopped 
chervil. 

I<eer of xnntton a la Froven9ale. 

Hang a leg of mutton until very tender; lard it with 
fillets of anchovies, garlic, and bacon, wrap it up in a sheet of 
paper spread with lard, roast, and serve with piquante sauce. 

St-oifed artichokes a la brigroule. 

Choose some young artichokes ot medium size, cut out the 
chokes, trim the leaves, and blanch them. Warm some chopped 
parsley, mushrooms, eschalots, scraped bacon, a pinch of 
mixed spice, salt, and pepper, in butter ; when done, fill the 
artichokes with this stuffing, tie a string round them to keep 
the leaves in their original shape, and place them in a sauce- 
pan, covered with slices of baton, and sprinkled with olive 
oil, fix the lid on tight, and when cooked, serve the arti- 
chokes with their own sauce reduced, or with Italian sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 83 



MARCH 23. 

Consomm^ aux lazagnes. Clear soup with Italian paste. 
Goujons frits. Fried gudo^eon. 

Fricassee de poulets. Fricass^ offowl. 

Gigot r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Pur^e "de navets. Pur^e of tun^ips. 

Giteau de riz. Rice cake. 

Prioass^ of fowl. 

Cut up your fowls into joints and soak in warm water 
until thoroughly clean, dip the pieces into cold water, drain, 
broil the legs, so as to remove the skin, split the gizzards, cut 
oflf the heads and use the best half of the necks ; wash the 
livers, sprinkle the whole with flour and warm in a saucepan, 
stir them all the time so that the butter may not brown, 
after five minutes add some stock, two heads of cloves, 
•cockscombs, pieces of sweet-bread, mushrooms, morels, a 
bouquet of mixed herbs, salt, and pepper; simmer over a 
moderate fire until sufficiently done, thicken the sauce with 
yolks of tgg^ a little cream and lemon juice ; pile the pieces of 
chicken in an entree dish, reserving the breasts and wings for 
the last, pour the sauce over them and garnish with large 
crayfish. This excellent entrde must be numbered amongst 
the classical dishes of French culinary art. 

llaitre d'hbtel butter. 

Take a tablespoonful of mixed herbs, composed half of 
finely-chopped parsley, a quarter of chervil leaves, and a 
quarter of watercress, mix into a pound of fresh butter, add 
one or two chopped tarragon leaves, the juice of a lemon and 
two or three yolks of egg, this butter will keep a long time. 



G 2 



84 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 24. 

Potage Faubonne. Faubonne soup. 

Saumon sauce genevoise. Salmon, Geneva sauce. 
Poularde a la Grimod. Fowl ^ la Grimod. 

FUet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Asperges au beurre. Asparagus with butter. 

(Eiifs ^ la neige. Poached whites of ^g. 

Eowl k la Griniod de la Besmiere. 

Clean and truss a fine fowl or fat pullet, beat the back so 
as to flatten the breast as much as possible, fill it with a 
stuffing composed of chopped truffles, chicken's liver, mush- 
rooms, parsley, chives, salt, coarse black pepper, beef marrow, 
and a little butter and lard. Warm the fowl for a few minutes 
in melted butter, and cover it with slices of crumb of bread, 
cut the length of the fowl and about a quarter of an inch thick, 
lay some slices of lean ham of the same size over them, and 
wrap the whole in a buttered paper, roast, and serve with its 
own gravy. 

Baked mushrooms with bread-ommbs. 

Prepare the same as stuffed mushrooms (see 4th of September). 

Poached whites of efirer. 

Boil a pint of milk, two tablespoonsful of orange-flower 
water and four ounces of sugar in a saucepan ; whip up six 
whites of egg and drop in a dessert-spoonful at a time of the 
whipped tgg into the milk ; when poached, place them on dish, 
thicken the milk with beaten yolks of ^g%^ and pour over the 
poached whites. Serve cold. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 85 



MARCH 25, 



Potage au pain. Bread soup. 

Bceuf bouilli garni de choux. Boiled beef and cabbage. 

Barbue k la Parmesane. Baked brill with Parmesan cheese. 
Jambon r6ti. Roast ham. 

Epinards au jus. Stewed spinach. 

Darioles k la duchesse. Duchess cakes. 



Baked brill with l^ajrmesan cheese. 

Break up any pieces of brill which may have been left from 
the previous day's dinner, take out all the bones, ahd warm in 
thick bechamel sauce (see i6th of August) ; place on a tin or 
plated dish, smooth with the blade of a knife dipped in boiling 
water, bread-crumb, and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, 
brown in the oven or with the salamander, and serve very hot. 

Duchess cakes. 

To make eighteen cakes, take one ounce of flour and stir 
well together with an ^gg ; add six yolks of Qgg, four ounces 
powdered sugar, six pounded maccaroons, a pinch of salt, and 
lastly a whole egg, stir until perfectly mixed, and add a pint of 
cream, some strips of citron, a tablespoonful of currants, a pinch 
of chopped angelica, glac^ cherries, and some preserved orange - 
flower leaves. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the 
cream, bake, and when cooked, glaze with white sugar, and 
serve very hot. These little cakes are most delicious. 



86 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 26. 

Potage printanier. Spring, soup. 

Anguille ^ la bordelaise. Eel ^ la bordelaise. 

C6telettes de veau ^ la milanaise. Veal cutlets 4 la mUanaise. 

Canards sauvages r6tis. Roast wild duck. 

Cro^Lte aux champignons. Mushroonis on toast. 

Comp6te de poires. Comp6te oi pears. 

Clear stock ik la Fran9ai8e. 

This soup, which is the result of keeping a stockpot always 
going, is generally made in an earthenware pot, or in a well- 
tinned stockpot. Cut up your soup-meat into small pieces, crush 
the bones, put in as many pints of water as there are pounds of 
beef, flavour with salt, place on the fire, when it boils, skim, 
and add carrots, turnips, parsnips, a bouquet of parsley, a 
laurel-leaf, two heads of cloves, a broiled onion, and a lump 
of sugar. Simmer for seven hours; if the soup is required 
to be extra good, a fowl can be boiled in it, but if so, no 
sugar will be required. Clear off all grease, and pass through 
a tammy. 

Spring: soup. 

Cut up some carrots, turnips, and leeks into fine strips, 
warm in fresh butter until slightly brown ; boil in a little stock 
for an hour, add some asparagus heads, green peas, and 
french beans, which have been boiled in water ; pour in the 
necessary quantity of stock, skim off all grease, and when 
boiling, pour into a soup-tureen over toasted crusts of bread. 



7HE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 87 



MARCH 27. 

Potage k la pur^e de pois. Pur^e of green peas. 

Morue \ la maitre d'h6tel Salt cod ^ la maitre d'hdtel. 

C6telettes de mouton sauce tomates. Mutton cutlets with tomato sauce. 
Pdt6 de b^assines. Pat^ of snipe. 

Mac^oine de legumes en salade. Mixed vegetable salad. 

Soupirs de nonne. Nun's sighs. 

Salt ood a la maitre d'hdtel. 

Soak a piece of salt cod for twenty-four hours, change the 
water frequently, scrape the fish and boil in water, when cooked, 
drain and place in a fish-pan. Melt sufficient fresh butter to make 
a good sauce for the cod, flavour with pepper, a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, chopped parsley and chives, a pinch of flour, 
and a tea-cupful of the water in which the cod was boiled; 
stir this sauce, and pour it over the fish ; leave on the fire 
until the cod is quite hot, stir the sauce the whole time, or the 
butter will become oily, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, 
and serve when the sauce has thickened. 

Fish firlaze. 

Simmer the heads and trimmings of turbot, whiting, and 
gurnet in water, with a fifth part of white wine, for several 
hours ; season with carrots, leeks, onions, a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, and a head of garlic. Pass through a tammy, and 
reduce to a glaze, and keep until required. 

Ohioken grlaze. 

Prepare the same as above, only use trimmings and bones 
of chicken instead of fish. 

Mutton outlets with tomato sauce. 

Trim your cutlets, dip them into melted butter, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and grill on the gridiron, be care- 
ful to turn the cutlets, serve them at the end of five or six 
minutes with tomato sauce (see 6th of January). 



88 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 28. 

Consomm^ k la chifibnnade de cer- Clear soup with chervil-leaves, 
feuil. 

Limandes frites, sauce Colbert. • Fried dab, Colbert sauce. 

Foie de veau 4 I'italienne. Calf s liver ^ ritalienne. 

Quartier d'agneau farci rdti. Stuffed forequarter of lamb. 

Salsifis frits. Fried salsifis. 

Gateau aux amandes. Almond cake. 

Clear soup with ohervil-leaves. 

Cut up some chervil-leaves, and boil in your stock; the 
flavour of these leaves is a great improvement if the stock 
happens to be rather poor. 

Oalf 8 liver a I'italienne. 

Cut Up the liver into thin slices ; put some olive oil, melted 
lard, and white wine in a saucepan, cover the bottom with 
chopped parsley, chives, and mushrooms, sprinkled with salt 
and pepper, place a layer of calf s liver on this, and continue 
in the same manner until the saucepan is nearly full, cover 
with slices of bacon, and cook over a slow fire with hot coals 
on the lid of the saucepan; serve either with Italian sauce 
(see 13th of October), or with its own sauce reduced, and 
cleared of all grease. 

Stuffed forequarter of lamb. 

Take the meat out of two or three sausages, some chopped 
bacon, a wine-glassful of cream, some bread-crumbs and 
chopped mixed herbs, mix the whole well together, and 
thicken with yolks of egg ; raise the shoulder with a knife 
without cutting the skin, fill with the stuffing, and sew it down 
with a trussing-needle and string. Wrap in a buttered sheet 
of paper, and roast. Serve with Spanish sauce (see 3rd of 
November), or with stewed bottoms of artichokes. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 89 



MARCH 29. 

Garbures gratin^es. Bread and cabbage soup \ \x 

gasconne. 

Rale au beurre noir. Skate with black butter sauce. 

Rosbif garni de pomraes de terre. Roast beef and baked potatoes. 

Terrine ou Pdt^ froid. Cold game pie. 

C6leri-rave au jus. Stewed celerv roots. 

Tartelettes de poires. Pear tartlets. 



Bread and cabbage soup a la Gasoonne. 

Line a stew-pan with slices of bacon, add some white 
cabbages cut into quarters, chopped bacon, carrots, onions, 
a bouquet of mixed herbs, salt, and pepper, simmer over a slow 
fire in stock until cooked. Simmer some slices of bread-crumb 
in stock until quite soft. Sprinkle the bottom of an earthen- 
ware pot which is fire-proof, with equal quantities of grated 
Parmesan and Gruy^re cheese, fill with alternate layers of 
cabbage, and soaked bread-crumb, sprinkle each layer with 
grated cheese, arrange so that you finish filling the pot with 
cabbages, which must have an extra quantity of cheese sprinkled 
over them ; brown in the oven, and serve very hot. Hand 
some clear stock in a separate tureen, as some people do not 
like such thick soup. 

Uint aauoe. 

Reduce equal quantities of vinegar and water, sweeten with 
a lump of sugar, and stir in some finely-chopped mint. 



90 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MARCH 30. 

MENU BN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage aux choux verts. Green cabbage soup. 

Alose au court-bouillon. ^ Shad boiled in court-bouillon. 

Timbaie de macaroni ^ Titalienne. Timbale of maccaroni k Titalienne 

Carpes frites. Fried carp. 

Asperges ^ la cr^me. Asparagus with cream. 

Giteau de riz. Rice cake. 



Shad boiled in court-botiilloii. 

Clean out your fish by the gills, sew up the head, and boil 
in court- bouillon (see i8th of April). When done, drain and 
dish up on a napkin, garnished with fresh parsley. Hand 
some white sauce (see 31st of January) in a sauceboat, or 
oil and vinegar. A sauce can also be made by passing 
whatever court-bouillon remains through a tammy and warm- 
ing it in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, stir in a little 
flour and a dessert-spoonful of anchovy butter (see 17th of May), 
and hand in a sauceboat. 

Asparafims with cream. 

Cut up some heads of asparagus, wash and drain them, melt 
some fresh butter in a saucepan, warm the asparagus heads 
in it, and stir in some bechamel sauce (see i6th of August) ; 
when done, serve covered with the sauce. 

Bice cake. 

Thoroughly wash half a pound of fine rice, boil in boiling milk 
and a little lemon-peel ; when done, leave until cold, stir in 
five ounces of powered sugar, a pinch of salt, four whole eggs, 
and four yolks of ^gg ; keep the whites in a bowl. Butter a 
mould, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs, whip up the whites 
of ^gg and stir them into the rice, fill the mould and bake for 
half an hour ; when cooked, turn out of the mould, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 91 



MARCH 31. 

Potage printanier. Spring soup. 

Rougets sauce anx buitres. Red mullet and oyster sauce. 

Marinade de cervelles. Calf s brain fritters. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti au Mad^re. Roast fillet of beef» Madeira sauce. 
Petits pois nouveaux 4 I'anglaise. Green peas k I'anglaise. 

Tartelettes de fraises. Strawberry tartlets. 

Bed mtdlet and oyster-sauce. 

Boil two onions, a chopped carrot, some branches of parsley, 
and salt in three pints of water, and two tablespoonsful of- 
vinegar, leave on the fire for twenty minutes, pass through a 
tammy ; when cold, place in a stew-pan, add your mullet, which 
have been cleaned, boned, and the heads sewn up, boil over a 
quick fire, and when cooked, simmer for ten minutes, cut oflf 
the string from the heads before serving, drain, and dish up, 
covered with oyster sauce (see i8th of November). 

Boast flUet of beef, Madeira sauce. 

Roast your fillet and baste with dripping, to which you have 
added two tumblers of Madeira and a pinch of white pepper. 
Clear the gravy of all grease, and serve with the beef. 

CalTs brain fritters. 

Cook the same as chicken fi-itters (see 4th of June). 

Purslane fried in batter. 

Take some stalks of purslane, the juice of a lemon, some 
powdered sugar, and a pinch of grated cinnamon, pound them 
well together, and leave to soak for two hours. Dip the stalks 
into batter, to which you have added a little brandy, and fry 
over a slow fire. Serve, sprinkled with powdered sugar. 



92 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL I. 

Potage \ Toseille. Sorrel soup. 

Tanches sur le gril. Broiled tench. 

Langue de boeuf au Parmesan. Stewed ox-tongue with Parmesan 

cheese. 

Longe de veau r&tie. Roast loin of veaL 

Pur^e de lentilles. Pur^ of lentils. 

Meringues ^ la cr^me. Meringues with cream. 

Puree of lentils. 

Boil your lentils in salt and water with a piece of bacon, 
when done pass through a tammy, thin the pur^e with stock, 
and serve with fried bread. If by mistake too much stock is 
added, the pur& must be placed on the fire and reduced, care 
being taken that it does not bum. 

Broiled tench. 

Wash three or four fine tench in boiling water, leave to soak 
for a few minutes, after which scrape oflf the scales, beginning 
from the head, so as not to cut the skin, clean them out and 
soak for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with chopped parsley, 
chives, eschalots, thyme, laurel-leaves, salt, and pepper ; wrap 
each fish in two sheets of paper, which have been soaked in the 
oil and thickly covered with the chopped seasoning in which the 
tench were soaked ; broil, and remove the papers before dish- 
ing up. Pour piquante sauce (see 26th of June) over the fish. 

Stewed ox-tongrue with Parmesan cheese. 

Trim and blanch the tongue, boil in stock, skin, and cut up 
into slices ; simmer in a tumblerful of dry white wine and the 
same quantity of stock until the liquor is reduced one half ; 
pour part of the sauce into a plated dish, grate some Parmesan 
cheese over it, add the slices of tongue, cover with the re- 
mainder of the sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese, and brown 
in the oven. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



93 



APRIL 2. 



Potage au pain. 

Boeuf garni de legumes. 

Marinade de volaille. 

Brochet au bleu. 

Macaroni ^ la sauce tomate. 

Pommes au riz. 



Bread soup. 

Boiled beef with vegetables. 

Chicken fritters. 

Pickled pike. 

Maccaroni with tomato sauce. 

Stewed apples with rice. 



Soup with toasted cmsts of bread. 
Prepare the same as bread soup (see 6th of January). 

Macoaroni with tomato sauce. 

Boil a pound of maccaroni in boiling water with a lump of 
fresh butter, an onion, two heads of cloves, and salt ; when 
done drain the maccaroni and place in a saucepan with five 
ounces of grated Gruy^re cheese, five ounces Parmesan cheese, 
a pinch of grated nutmeg, some coarse black pepper, and six 
tablespoonsful of cream, toss over the fire until the cheese 
becomes thick and stringy. Dish up in a pyramid covered 
with thick tomato sauce (see 6th of January). 

Stewed apples with rice. 

Scoop out the cores and peel some fine russet apples, and 
stew them in clarified sugar. Boil some rice in milk with a 
pinch of salt, a few strips of lemon-peel and sugar enough to 
sweeten it, leave on the fire until the rice is quite soft and has 
absorbed nearly all the milk, remove the lemon-peel and place 
in a dish, arrange the stewed apples on the rice and put in the 
oven until a pretty golden colour. 

Oompbte of grooseberries. 

Pick off the stalks of your gooseberries, wash and drain 
them, lay iii a deep pie-dish, and pour hot clarified sugar over 
them. Serve when cold. 

German sauce. 
Reduce some b&hamel sauce (see i8th of August), thicken 
with four yolks of egg, stir in half a tumblerful of cream, season 
with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, and warm in a saucepan. 



94 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 3. 

Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

Filets de soles au gratin. Baked fillets of sole with bread- 
crumbs. 

Cotelettes de mouton jardiniere. Mutton cutlets ^ la jardiniere. 

Poulet r6ti au cresson. Roast fowl with watercresses. 

Choux de Bruxelles au beurre. Brussels sprouts. 

Beignets d'abricots \ I'eau-de-vie. Apricot fritters with brandy. 

Baked fillets of sole with bread-cmmbs. 

Cut each sole into four fillets by making a slit down the back 
and passing a knife between the fish and the backbone. Spread 
some forcemeat (see 6th of April) on each fillet and roll them. 
Line a tin or plated dish with a thin layer of the same force- 
meat, place the fillets round the dish and fill all the empty 
spaces with forcemeat ; bread-crumb, moisten with melted 
butter, and brown in the oven or with a salamander. 

Eel a la Bordelaise. 

Wash and clean out your eel, split it in two, remove the back- 
bone and boil in white wine, flavoured with salt, pepper, parsley, 
and slices of onion, when cooked, place the fish between two 
cloths, press with a heavy weight until quite flat, cut it into 
fillets and warm in some, white wine sauce, which has been 
reduced and thickened with fish glaze (see 27th of March); , 
when quite hot, dish up the fillets in a pyramid and cover with 
their own sauce. Garnish with glazed onions (see 14th of 
January). 

Apricot fritters with brandy. 

Cut your apricots into halves, remove the stones, and place 
each piece between two round slices of either brioche or bread 
which have been soaked in brandy; dip into batter (see 13th 
of November), and fry in hot butter or lard until a golden 
colour, drain and sprinkle with powdered sugar, glaze in the 
oven or with the salamander. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



95 



APRIL 4. 



Potage au riz pur^ de pois. 

Turbot au gratin. 

Boeuf 4 la mode. 

Canards rotis. 

Artichauts ^ la lyonnaise. 

GUteaux foorr^ aux confitures. 



Pur^e of green peas with rice. 

Baked turbot 

BoBuf ^ la mode. 

Roast ducks. 

Artichokes k la lyonnaise. 

Jam puffs. 



Baked turbot. 

Boil a turbot in salt and water, when cold remove all the 
bones from the fish, break it into pieces and warm in white 
bechamel sauce (see i8th of August) ; when thoroughly mixed 
place in a tin or plated dish, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and 
grated Parmesan cheese, moisten with melted butter, and 
brown in the oven. 

Jam ptifGB. 

Cut out some puflf paste with a large round tin cutter, scoop 
out the centre of half the rounds and fill them with jam, 
cover with the remaining halves, after moistening the edges of 
the paste with a little water, glaze with whipped yolk of egg, 
and bake; when cooked, sprinkle the puffs with powdered 
sugar, and glaze in the oven or with a salamander. 



Pistachio cake. 

Blanch one pound of pistachio nuts and pound in a mortar 
with the white of an tgg^ add a little scraped green lemon- 
peel, half a pound of powdered sugar, ten eggs, the whites of 
which must be whipped, and mix all together, pour into a well- 
buttered mould, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. 
Turn out of the mould and serve either hot or cold. 



96 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



APRIL 5. 

Potage aux oeufe poch^ Clear soup with poached ^^. 

Truite au beurre d'anchois. Trout and anchovy butter. 

Epigrammes d'agneau aux pomtes Breast and neck of Iamb with 
d'aspei^es. asparagus heads. 

Filet de boeuf roti. . Roast fillet of beef. 

Choux-ileurs sauce hoUandaise. Cauliflower with hollandaise sauce. 
Blanc-manger au cafe. Coffee blanc-mange. 

Trout and anchovy butter. 

Boil the trout in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), and 
serve with anchovy butter in a sauceboat. 

Anchovy batter. 

Clean and bone your anchovies and pound them in a 
mortar with double their quantity of fresh butter ; if required 
for sauce stir in some warm reduced stock, and mix in a 
saucepan until quite hot 

Breast and neck of lamb with asparagrus heads. 

Tie a string round the breast, and braise it (see 28th of 
May) ; when cooked remove all bones and place between two 
dishes with a heavy weight on them to press down the meat ; 
when cold cut into pieces the shape of a cutlet, stick a small 
bone into each piece so as to give the appearance of a cutlet 
bone, dip into German sauce (see 2nd of April), egg and 
bread-crumb them twice over, and fry in melted butter. Cut 
up the neck into cutlets, and toss them in a saucepan with 
some fresh butter ; when done, arrange the pieces of breast 
and. cutlets alternately round an entree dish and garnish the 
centre with asparagus heads cooked in bechamel sauce (see 
1 8th of August). 

Bread panada. 

Boil a piece of stale crumb of bread in either stock or 
^ water; when done, press between two plates or wring in a 
Kl doth, warm in a saucepan with a little fresh butter, salt, 
^B- pepper, chopped parsley, and four or five yolks of egg, stir 
^F until thoroughly mixed, pour into a dish, and place before the 
ir fire until quite dry. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 97 



APRIL 6. 

Potage Faubonne. Faubonne soup. 

Mulct grilM. Broiled grey mullet. 
Gigot de mouton brais^ garni de Braised leg of mutton with rissoles, 
rissoles. 

Vanneaux bard^s r6tis. Roast lapwing. 

Garottes glacees. Glazed carrots. 

Tartelettes aux cerises. Cherry tartlets. 

Broiled firrey mullet. 

Scale and clean the mullet and put it to soak for half an 
hour in olive oil, seasoned with slices of onion, parsley, salt, 
and pepper. Broil the fish over a slow fire, and serve with 
maitre d'hotel sauce (see 23rd of March), or green sauce. 

Ghreen sauce. 

Boil some slices of ham and veal in equal quantities of 
stock and white wine ; when cooked, simmer over a slow fire 
until the sauce is reduced, and pass through a tammy. Pound 
some firesh mixed herbs in the mortar, squeeze out the juice 
through a cloth on td the sauce, season with salt, pepper, and 
lemon juice, and thicken with yolks of egg. 

Qlazed oaxrots. 

Peel some young carrots all to the same size and shape, blanch 
them in boiling water, drain, and warm in a saucepan with 
fresh butter, a pinch of powdered sugar and stock, when boiled 
make a larger fi]:e, and leave the saucepan on it until the sauce 
is reduced to a glaze. 

Forcemeat. 

Take equal quantities of breast of chicken, dry bread 
panada made with stock and calf s udder, pound them sepa- 
rately, after which mix them together and pound again, 
. thicken with yolks of egg, and season with salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of nutmeg. This forcemeat is generally used with 
baked fish and vegetables. 



98 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 7. 



Potage k I'oscille. 

Maquereaux k la mattre d'h6tel. 

Bifteck garni de pommes de terre. 

Terrine de foie gras. 

Morilles 4 I'italienne. 

Giteau d'amandes. 



Sorrel soup. 

Mackerel ^ la maitre dliotel 

Steak and potatoes. 

Pit^ de foie gras. 

Morels ^ I'italienne. 

Almond cake. 



Steak and potatoes.' 

The undercut of the sirloin is the best part of beef from 
which to cut your steaks ; cut up into pieces three inches 
thick, and beat until an inch flatter, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, broil over a quick fire, turn when half done, and take 
off the gridiron directly the gravy begins to drop. Serve the 
steaks on a very hot dish, with a lump of firesh butter placed 
on each one. Garnish with firied potatoes. Maitre d'hotel 
butter, anchovy butter, pickled cabbage, gherkins, olives, pickled 
watercress, or Madeira sauce can be handed with this dish. 



Morels a I'italienne. 

Blanch your morels and warm them in a little fresh butter, 
seasoned with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, add a tumblerful of white wine, and simmer 
for half an hour; when cooked, add some stock, thickened 
with browning, the juice of half a lemon, and a lump of chicken 
glaze (see 27th of March) the size of a walnut Dish up, gar- 
nished with small round sippets of fried bread. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 99 



APRIL 8. 

Potage de riz au gras. Brunoise soup with rice. 

Raie 4 la Sainte-Menehould. Skate k la Sainte-Menehould. 

Ragout de veau k la bourgeoise. Stewed veal k la bourgeoise. 

Rouges de riviere bard^s rdtis. Roast shovellers. 

Salsifis frits. Fried salsifis. 

Tarte aux fraises. Strawberry tartlets. 

Skate d la Saints Menehould. 

Take some milk, a lump of fresh butter, and a little flour, 
season with parsley, a bouquet of mixed herbs, slices of onion, 
a head of garlic, and two large pinches of mixed spice, stir in 
a saucepan until it boils ;. add your slices of skate, and leave 
until cooked ; drain the fish, dip each slice into melted butter, 
and bread-crumb, repeat this, and broil over a slow fire. Dish 
up on remoulade sauce (see 23rd of October). 

Stewed veal. 

Stir a lump of butter and a little flour in a saucepan until 
brown ; if a white stew is required do not allow the butter to 
brown ; cut your veal into pieces, and warm in the melted 
butter; when the meat is firm, add a little warm water; season 
with young onions, salt, pepper, thyme, laurel-leaves, button 
mushrooms, morels, young carrots, and peas ; when thoroughly 
cooked, serve very hot. If a white stew, thicken the sauce 
with yolks of t%g before dishing up. 

Stewed oyBters. 

Cook the same as stewed veal (see above). 



H 2 



loo THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 9. 

Potage aux quenelles de volaille. Clear soup with quenelles of 

chicken. 

Pi^ce de boeuf sauce Robert - Boiled beef, Robert sauce. 

Ris de veau frits. Fried sweet-breads. 

Poularde rotie. Roast pullet. 

Asperses en branches. Asparagus. 

Gateau de riz. Rice cake. 



Clear soup with, quenelles of chicken. 

Prepare some chicken forcemeat (see 3rd of September), 
shape it into quenelles in a teaspoon, and poach them in the 
required quantity of clear stock, which must be boiling, and 
serve. 

Fried sweet-breads. 

Trim and blanch your sweet-breads, and dip them into 
lukewarm stock, to which you have added melted butter, 
chopped herbs, eschalots, and chives, the juice of a lemon, 
salt and pepper ; drain the sweet-breads, dip them into batter 
(see 13th of November), and fry until a golden colour. Serve 
with tomato sauce (see 6th of January), and garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Rice cake. 

Wash five ounces of rice, and cook in milk ; when thoroughly 
boiled and swollen, pour into a dish, and leave until cold. 
Take a pint of flour, a pinch of salt, four eggs, half a pound 
of butter, and mix together, pound them in a mortar with the 
cold rice, pour into a plain buttered mould, and bake for an 
hour \ when done, turn out of the mould, cover with whipped 
whites of t%g^ and brown in the oven. 



I 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 10 1 



APRIL 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage ^ roignon. Onion soup. 

Matelote d'anguille et de carpe. Stewed carp and eel. 
CEufs brouilles aux pointes Buttered eggs with asparagus heads, 
d'asperges. 

Ecrivisses en buisson. Crayfish. 

Morilles ^ I'Andalouse. Morels ^ I'Andalouse. 

Kluskis au fromage k la cr^me. Kluskis of cream cheese. 

MorelB a PAndalouse. 

Brown some dice of ham in olive oil, and when a good colour 
add your morels ; moisten with a tumblerful of sherry, a wine- 
glass of Madeira, season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of 
powdered capsicum, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and some 
chopped parsley. Cook for three quarters of an hour, and 
before serving thicken the sauce with brown thickening, and 
flavour with lemon juice. 

Kluskis of cream cheese. 

Take half a pound of fresh butter, six eggs, six table- 
spoonsful of cream cheese, a pinch of powdered sugar and 
salt, and sufficient grated bread-crumb and cream to make a 
paste, mix well together, and roll into the shape of rissoles, 
poach in boiling salt and water, drain them, and serve, covered 
with black butter sauce (see 14th of October). 

Poivrade sauce. 

Take a tumblerful of vinegar, a little fresh butter, a tea- 
spoonful of chopped chives, a pinch of chopped herbs, thyme, 
laurel-leaves, salt, and black pepper, reduce in a saucepan, 
add some meat glaze and a little stock, stir over the fire until 
quite thick, and pass through a tammy. 



I02 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL II. 

Potage printanier aux ceufs poch^s. Spring soup with poached eggs. 

Quartier de pr^-sale ^ la bretonne. Forequarter of South-down mutton 

k la bretonne. 
Ailerons de dinde ^ la chicor^ Turkey pinions with pur^e of 

chicory. 
P^t^ de saumon. Salmon pie. 

Salade de legumes. V^etable salad. 

Baba au rhum. Baba or rum cake. 

Salmon pie. 

Pound one pound of cold boiled pike or whiting, and pass 
through a coarse sieve; take three quarters of a pound of 
butter and a quarter of a pound of very dry bread-crumb, 
season with salt and pepper, pound in the mortar, and when 
quite smooth, add it to the pounded fish with a whole egg and 
three yolks of egg, stir well together, and poach this forcemeat 
in boiling stock. Cut a piece of salmon, weighing about two 
pounds, into slices an inch thick, skin, and bone them. Line 
a plain mould with paste, made with equal quantities of flour 
and butter, and fill it with alternate layers of forcemeat and 
salmon ; when nearly full, cover with a leaf of paste, moisten 
the edges so that it may fit closely, and lay a thick layer of 
hot water paste over it all, make a hole about the size of a 
shilling in the paste, and bake for an hour and a half. 

Turkey pinions with pur^e of chicory. 

Prepare the same as turkey pinions (see 4th of October), 
but serve with a purde of chicory. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 103 



APRIL 12. 

Potage aux pites d'ltalie. Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Monie au gratin. Baked salt cod with bread-crumbs. 

Gigot de sept heures. Stewed leg of mutton. 

^ Becassines r&ties. Roast snipe. 

£piliards nouveaux k la cr^me. Young spinach with cream. 

Tourte aux fraises. Strawberry tart. 

Baked salt cod with bread-ommbs. 

Soak some salt cod for a few hours and boil it, remove all 
bones and break it into pieces. Warm some fresh butter, 
flour, salt, black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and cream 
in a saucepan, stir with a wooden spoon until it boils ; place 
the pieces of cod in a deep dish, and pour the hot sauce over 
them ; when cold ; pile up the fish in a pyramid on a tin or 
plated dish, smooth over with a warm knife, and sprinkle with 
bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan or Gruy^re cheese; moisten 
thoroughly with melted butter, bread-crumb again, and sprinkle 
a little more melted butter over it ; place the dish in a moderate 
oven until sufficiently browned. Serve, garnished with fried 
bread. 

Stewed lesr of mutton. 

Bone a leg of mutton, and brown it in a stew-pan with some 
fresh butter \ when a good colour, add a little water, three heads 
of garlic, four or five onions, two carrots, salt, and pepper; 
simmer for seven hours, when it will be sufficiently cooked. 
Place the mutton on a dish, clear the sauce of all grease, 
thicken it with potato flour, and pour over the leg. Hand 
either a pured of chicory, haricot beans, or chestnuts in a 
separate dish. 



I04 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



APRIL 13. 

Pur^e de pommes de terre i la chif- Pur^ of potatoes with chervil- 

fonnade de cerfeuil. leaves. 

Accolade d'anguilles ^ la broche. Brace of eels roasted. 

Toume-dos, sauce poivrade. Fillets of beef with poivrade sauce. 

Quartier de devant d'agneau rdti. Roast forequarter of lamb. 

Pommes de terre frites. Fried potatoes. 

Charlotte russe. Charlotte russe. 



Brace of eels roasted. 

Choose two eels of the same size, cut off the heads and 
tails, skewer them together back to back, so arranged that the 
head of one is skewered to the other one*s tail, place them in 
a deep dish or fish-pan, with a pint of white wine, some well 
flavoured stock, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour ; 
strain them, and wrap in a large sheet of buttered paper, roast 
for twenty minutes, and dish up ; make some sauce by reducing 
the liquor in which the eels were boiled to a glaze, stir in a 
tumblerful of sherry, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, and pour over the eels. Serve very hot. 

Boast forequarter of lamb. 

Cover the lamb with slices of bacon, and wrap it up in sheets 
of buttered paper, roast, and when sufficiently cooked, take off 
the spit, raise the shoulder from the neck with a knife and 
fill the cavity with maitre d'hotel butter (see 23rd of March), 
and serve with its own gravy. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 105 



APRIL 14. 

Potage au macaroni. Maccaroni soup. 

Grenadins de filets de soles. Larded fillets of sole with forcemeat. 

Pigeons aux petits pois. Stewed pigeons and green peas. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti, sauce Mad^re. Roast fillet of beef with Madeira 

sauce. 

Asperges au beurre. Asparagus. 

■ Omelette souffl^e. Omelet souffle. 

Larded fillets of sole with foroemeat. 

• 

Line a saucepan with slices of bacon, put a large truffle in 
the centre, lard some fillets of sole and lay them in rays, start- 
ing from the truffle, place two fillets of mullet in the space 
between each fillet of sole, dividing them with half a fillet of 
sole larded with truffles, spread a layer of forcemeat (see 3rd 
of September) about an inch thick over the fillets, be careful 
not to leave any interstices, and fill up the saucepan with mince- 
meat (see 28th of August) ; cover the whole with hot water 
paste, and bake in the oven ; when done, turn out of the 
saucepan on to the drainer, remove the slices of bacon and 
serve. Hand some Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November), with 
a little stock added to it, in a sauceboat. 

Boast fillet of beef with IKCadeira sauce. 

Trim your fillet, lard, and soak it in oil for four hours, seasoned 
with slices of onion, parsley, salt, and pepper. Wrap it up in 
buttered paper, and roast ; remove the paper five minutes before 
taking off the spit. Fifty minutes is the usual time for roast- 
ing a fillet weighing about five pounds. Hand Madeira sauce 
(see 19th of August) separately. 



io6 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 15. 



Potage au vermicelle maigre. 

Rougets barbets sauce tartare. 

C6telettes de veau ^ la milanaise. 

Canard r6ti. 

Petits pois ^ Tanelaise. 

Meringue ^ la crime. 



White vermicelli soup. 

Red mullet with tartare sauce. 

Veal cutlets k la milanaise. 

Roast duck. 

Green peas ^ Tanglaise. 

Meringues with cream. 



Bed xnullet with tartaxe sauce. 



Prepare and cook your mullet the same as on the 20th of 
January, but do not wrap them in paper cases. Serve with 
tartare sauce (see 15th of March). 



Veal cutlets a la ])(Cilaxiaise» 

Cut your cutlets half an inch thick and beat them as flat as 
possible without breaking the bone, rub them over with salt 
and pepper, dip into melted butter, sprinkle with grated Par- 
mesan cheese, and t%% and bread-crumb them, if not sufficiently 
covered, egg and bread-crumb a second time ; fry the cutlets 
in fresh butter, and drain them. Serve with either maitre 
d'hotel butter or tomato sauce, and garnish with a lemon cut 
into slices. 

Green peas a I'Aiifirlaise. 

Boil your peas in boiling salt and water, season with an 
onion and a bouquet of parsley, when done, remove the onion 
and parsley, drain, and pour on to a lump of fresh butter, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot Hand 
some powdered sugar separately. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 107 



APRIL 16. 

Potage au pain. Bread soup. 

Boeuf bouilli sauce Robert. Boiled beef, Robert sauce. 

Vol-au-vent de quenelles. Vol-au-vent of quenelles. 

Poulet r6ti. Roast fowl. 

Epinards au jus. Stewed spinach. 

Gateau de plomb. Lead cake. 

Lead oake. 

Take two quarts of flour, make a well in the centre, and fill it 
with one ounce of salt, two and a half ounces of sugar, two 
pounds of butter, and twelve eggs, mix well together and roll 
out the paste three times, if too thick add a little milk ; leave 
the paste on a wooden slab for half an hour, then add half a 
pound of butter, roll it out four times and fold into a thick 
cake, cut out the edges with a tin cutter, prick the top of the 
cake, ^^;g over with whipped yolks of egg, and bake for an 
hour and a half. 

Brown thickening-. 

Brown thickening is the foundation of nearly all brown 
sauces, and is prepared in the following manner : Take one 
pound of fresh butter, melt it in a saucepan, skim it, and when 
clarified, stir in a pound of flour, moisten with either water or 
stock, and stir with a wooden spoon until brown, when it will 
be ready for use. 

White thickeninsr. 

Prepare the same as brown thickening, but do not leave on 
the fire long enough to become brown, as this thickening is 
chiefly used for white sauces. 



io8 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 17. 

Potage paysanne. Peasant soup. 

Anguille aux montants de laitue Fricassee of eel and lettuce, 
romaine. 

Oreilles de pore k la lyonnaise. Pigs ears ^ la lyonnaise. 

Rosbif roti. Roast beef. 

Haricots verts ^ la poulet. French beans with white sauce. 

Flan de poires. Open pear tart. 

Pifir's ears a la Lyonnaise. 

Singe the pig's ears, scrape, clean, and cut them into strips, 
simmer in stock, seasoned with fried slices of onion, pepper, 
salt, and a little flour \ when cooked, add the juice of a lemon, 
and serve, garnished with fried sippets of bread. 

French beans with white sauce. 

Cut up your french beans, soak them in cold water, and boil 
in boiling salt and water ;" when done, plunge them into cold 
water and drain. Warm some chopped onions in fresh butter, 
but do not brown them ; when nearly cooked, stir in a little 
flour, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, chives, and a wine-glassful 
of stock, add the beans, and when boiling thicken the sauce 
with yolks of egg, and flavour with lemon juice. Do not let the 
sauce be too thin. 

Asparagros with butter sauce. 

Boil your asparagus in salt and water, and serve with butter 
sauce (see 22nd of January). 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARJS. 109 



APRIL 1 8. 

Potage pur^e de pois au riz. Pur^e of peas with rice. 

Brochet au court-bouillon. Pike boiled in court -bouillon, 

;^paule d'agneau glacee. Glazed shoulder of lamb. 

Pintade rotie. Roast guinea fowl. 

Pommes de terre sautees. Fried potatoes. 

Confitures de cerises. Compote of cherries. 

CoTut-bonillozi, or white wine sauce. 

This sauce is so useful that it always ought to be at hand in 
every kitchen, and whenever any is taken out of the bowl in 
which it is kept, it must be replaced by the same quantity of 
white wine. Fill a fish-pan nearly to the brim with white wine, 
a wine-glassful of bi^andy, the same quantity of sherry, and 
season with salt, pepper, two heads of cloves, a head of garlic, 
sliced onions, carrots, turnips, parsnips, celery, chervil, parsley, 
laurel-leaves, thyme, and a lump of lard or fresh butter, if for 
fast days use olive oil ; boil over a quick fire until reduced a 
third ; if the wine catches fire, it will greatly improve the 
flavour of the sauce. When used for cooking fish or crayfish, 
see that the court-bouillon is boiling before putting them in, 
and have suflScient quantity to cover the fish thoroughly. A 
cheaper manner of preparing the sauce is by using equal 
quantities of vinegar and water instead of white wine, and by 
omitting some of the vegetables. 

G-lazed shoidder of lamb. 

Bone your shoulder, lard the top part of it, and skewer into 
any shape preferred. Cook the same as fricandeau of veal 
(see I ith of May), reduce the sauce in which it has been braised, 
and glaze the shoulder with it. 



no THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 19 

Potage ^ la pur^e de poireaux. Pur^e of leeks. 

Brandade de morae. Cream of salt cod. 

Cotelettes de mouton k la jardiniere. Mutton cutlets & la jardiniere. 
Poulet roti. Roast chicken. 

Macaroni au gratin. Maccaroni cheese. 

Epinards au sucre. Sweet spinach. 

Cream of salt cod. 

Soak a nice piece of salt cod for twenty-four hours in fresh 
water, boil it in cold water, and when done, skin and bone it 
carefully, break into small pieces, and warm in mehed butter, 
a little olive oil, chopped garlic and parsley, stir with a wooden 
spoon until it becomes a thick cream, moistening from time to 
time with either olive oil, butter, or milk. Unless great care is 
taken to stir the whole time, the fish will not dissolve as it 
ought. 

Mutton outlets a la jardini^e. 

Trim your cutlets, cover them with slices of bacon, and cook 
them in a stew-pan with a little stock. When done, take out 
the cutlets, and boil some bottoms of artichokes, salsifis, carrots, 
and turnips in the same stock, and leavie on the fire to simmer 
until the vegetables have absorbed all the gravy \ clear oflf all 
grease, and pour the vegetables over the cutlets, which have 
been kept hot 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



Ill 



APRIL 20. 



MENU EN MAIGRE. 

Potage ^ la pur^e de navets. 

Raie au beurre noir. 

Vol-au-vent de legumes. 

Goujons frits. 

Haricots verts ^ Vanglaise. 

Pommes en croustade. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Pur^ of turnips. 

Skate with black butter sauce. 

Vol-au-vent of vegetables. 

Fried gudgeon. 

French beans a Tanglaise. 

Open apple tart. 



Salt ood with black butter sauce. 

Soak your cod for twenty-four hours in fresh water, boil in 
cold water. When done, place on a dish, cover with black 
butter sauce, and garnish with fresh parsley. 

French beans a TAnsrlaise. 

Cut up your beans, boil them in salt and water, drain, and 
pour into a vegetable dish, on to a large lump of fresh butter, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 



Open apple tart. 

Line a plain mould with short paste, brush some yolk of egg 
over it, and bake until a golden colour, turn it out, and fill the 
case half full of apple marmalade (see 31st of January), place 
some whole stewed apples on it, garnish them with apricot jam 
and dried cherries, surround the tart with pieces of apple jelly 
and apricot jam, and serve. 



112 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 21. 

Potage croiite au pot. Soup with bread-crusts. 

Jambon k la broche aux epinards. Roast ham and spinach. 
Salmis de cuisses de canetons. Salmis of duck's thighs. 

Anguille rdtie ^ la sauce verte. Roast eel with green sauce. 
Asperges en branches. Asparagus. 

. Pouding k la d'Orleans. Orleans pudding. 

Boast ham. 

Soak the ham for twelve hours in water ; place it in a deep 
dish or earthenware pan, and soak for twenty-four hours in 
white wine, seasoned with sliced onions, carrots, parsley, laurel- 
leaves, and thyme ; cover the pan with a cloth, and press on the 
lid very tight to prevent the air getting in. Roast the ham, 
baste with the wine in which it was soaked. When sufficiently 
done, dish it up on a pur^e of spinach. 

Salmis of duck's thisrhs. 

The thighs or insides of the legs of ducks are considered the 
most delicate part of the bird, and even in great kitchens they 
are kept from ducks served the previous day, and made into a 
salmis. Cut off the insides of the legs, and put them on one 
side, pull the remainder of the duck into shreds, and boil in 
equal quantities of claret and stock, season with salt, pepper, 
eschalots, and parsley, reduce and simmer, until the sauce is 
quite thick, pass through a tammy, and warm the thighs in this 
sauce, take off the fire before it boils ; dish up in a pyramid, 
cover with the sauce, squeeze a little lemon juice over it, and 
garnish with fried sippets of bread 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 113 



APRIL 22. 

Potage au macaroni. Maccaroni soup. 

Poulet au gros sel. Boiled chicken. 

Soles en turban. Baked fillets of sole. 

Gigot r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Haricots ^ la bretonne. Haricot beans ^ la bretonne. 
Gdteaux ^ la cr^me. Cream pastry. 

Baked fillets of sole, turban fashion. 

Cut a piece of crumb of bread into the shape of a small 
sugar-loaf, place in the centre of a tin dish with the narrowest 
part downwards ; cover with slices of bacon, spread a layer 
of forcemeat over them, and stick on the fillets of sole in such 
a way as to form the shape of a turban, garnish with small 
rounds of truffles, moisten with melted butter, flavour with 
lemon juice, cover with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet 
of paper ; bake, and when done, remove the paper, slices of 
bacon, and the piece of bread from the centre, and fill the hole 
with tomato sauce. 

Cream pastry. 

Take two pints of flour and stir in a tumblerful of double 
cream and a pinch of salt ; when mixed, roll out the paste and 
leave for half an hour ; add half a pound of butter, roll five 
times, and cut out into any shape you please; glaze with 
beaten yolks of egg, and bake. 

Butter biscuits. 

These biscuits are made the same as cream cake. 



114 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 23. • ' 

Potage au pain. Bread soup. 

Culottedeboeufgamiede croquettes. . Rump-steak with croquettes. 

Poulets ^ la d*Escars. Chicken ^ la d'Escars. 

ilperlans frits. Fried smelts. 

Oseille en puree. Pur^ of sorrel. 

Pommes meringuees. Meringue of apple. 

Ohioken a la d'Esoars. 

Truss your chicken for boiling, lard the breasts and place 
in a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon, add a slice of ham, 
an onion stuck with cloves, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and 
some slices of carrot ; moisten with a large wine-glassful of 
stock and the same quantity of sherry ; cover the whole with 
slices of bacon, and cook over a moderate fire with hot coals 
on the lid of the saucepan so as to brown and glaze the 
bacon. When the chicken is sufficiently done, drain it \ pass 
the sauce through a tammy, skim off all grease, reduce it, 
stir in a little brown thickening, and pour over the chicken. 

Pur^e of sorrel. 

Chop up some sorrel, lettuce, and a few chervil-leaves 
with a little white beet, stir over the fire in a saucepan until 
thoroughly dissolved without the addition of any liquid, 
when done, add a lump of fresh butter, salt, and pepper, 
thicken with yolks of egg and cream, and serve. 

Boast oalfs kidney. 

Cook the same as roast fillet of veal (see i6th of June). 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. i rs 



APRIL 24. 

Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

Maquereaux k la maftre d'hdtel. Mackerel ^ la maitre d'hdtel. 
Poularde au gros sel. Boiled fowl. 

Foie de veau r6ti. Roast calfs liver. 

Patates au beurre. Sweet potatoes with butter. 
Giteau feuillet^. Light pastry. 

Boast calfs liver. 

Choose a fine white calfs liver, lard it with thick fillets 
of bacon, sprinkle with chopped gariic, herbs, and mixed 
spice, and cover with a thick layer of lard ; roast before a 
moderate fire ; when cooked, skim all grease off the dripping, 
flavour with lemon-juice, and pour over the liver. Another 
way of cooking calfs liver is to roast it, without larding ; 
pour piquante sauce, flavoured with chopped capers or gherkins 
over it. 

Llfirht pastry. 

Make a soft paste, with one pound of flour, water, and a 
pinch of salt, leave for half an hour ; roll it out, spread some 
fresh butter over it, fold and roll out again, repeat this three 
or four times \ cut out in any shape you fancy, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Sweet potatoes with butter. 

Steam th^ sweet potatoes, when cooked, peel and slice 
them. Warm in a saucepan with a little firesh butter and 
salt. 



I 2 



ii6 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 25. 

Potage au pun. Bread soup. 

Pi^e de bceuf bouilli, gamie ^ la Boiled beef k la namande. 

flamande. 

Ailerons de dindon k la Sainte-Me- Turkey pinions ^ la Sainte-Mene- 

nehould. hould. 

Homard au court-bouillon. Lobster boiled in court>bouillon. 

Pur^e de pommes de terre au gratin. Baked pur^ of potatoes with bread- 
crumbs. 

Brioches aux fruits. Brioche with stewed fruits. 

Tnrkey pinions a la Sainte-Menehonld. 

Boil eight or ten turkey pinions in equal quantities of stock 
and whitQ wine, season with salt, pepper, a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, leave on the fire until 
the sauce sticks to the pinions, place in a dish, cover with the 
sauce, and when cold dip them into olive oil, sprinkle with 
bread-crumbs and broil, when a good colour, dish up ; squeeze 
a little lemon juice over them, and serve. 

Lobster boiled in court-bouillon. 

Boil your lobster in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), add a 
lump of fresh butter, parsley, a chili pepper, two or three leeks, 
salt, and a tablespoonful of vinegar; leave on the fire for 
twenty-five minutes. When cold, serve the lobster with the 
following sauce. 

liObster sauce. 

Scoop out the body of the lobster, and stir in a bowl with 
the spawn, some olive oil, a teaspoonful of mustard, a pinch 
of chopped herbs, two pounded eschalots, a little white pepper, 
ten or twelve drops of Soy sauce, a small liqueur glass of 
anisette, and the juice of two or three lemons ; when thoroughly 
mixed the sauce will be ready for use. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 1 1 7 



APRIL 26. 

Potage de riz ii la pur^ d'oseille. Pur^ of sorrel with rice. 

Rougets barbets en caisse. Red mullet in cases. 

Tendrons de veau aux pointes Tendons of veal with asparagus, 
d'asperges. 

Accolade de lapereaux. Roast brace of young rabbits. 

Pommes de terre nouvelles It la New potatoes boiled in cream, 
ermine. 

Cougloff k TiJlemande. Cougloff, or German cake. 

# 

Braised romp-steak. 

Prepare the same as braised ribs of beef (see 22nd of 
January). 

Boast brace of yotmflr rabbits. 

Skin, singe, and clean out your rabbits, leave the livers, lard 
the backs and thighs, skewer them together, and roast ; serve, 
covered with Italian sauce. 

New potatoes boiled in cream. 
Stir a lump of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of flour, some 
chopped chives and parsley, salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg in a saucepan, add sufficient cream in which to warm 
the potatoes, when it boils, add the potatoes, which have been 
previously boiled and sliced, warm in the sauce, and serve very 
hot. 

Couflrloir, or German oake. 

Dissolve a lump of German yeast the size of two eggs, and 
half an ounce of salt, in half a tumblerful of warm water, stir it 
into one pound of flour, add four eggs, half a pound of stoned 
raisins, two ounces of currants, four ounces of powdered sugar, 
and a little warm milk ; when well mixed, roll into a ball, wrap 
up in a cloth sprinkled with flour, and place in an earthenware 
pan near the fire ; if cold, cover with a blanket, and turn the 
paste occasionally ; leave to rise about the same time as you 
would bread. When ready for use, roll out the ball of paste 
on a wooden slab, glaze it with yolk of ^ggy and bake. This is 
a most delicious cake. 



ii8 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 27. 

Potage printanier. Spring soup. 

Carpes a I'^tuv^ Stewed carp. 

Poulardes k I'estragon. Pullets with tarragon. 

Rosbif r6ti. Roast beef. 

Oignons farcis. Stuffed onions. 

Blanc-manger au cafe. Coffee blanc-mange. 

Stnlfod onions. 

Pick out some large onions, peel, blanch, and drain them, 
scoop out the centres and fill with forcemeat (see 3rd of Sep- 
tember), i^lace them at the bottom of a large stew-pan, cover 
with slices of bacon, sprinkle with salt and sugar, and cook 
over a quick fire ; when done, remove the onions, reduce the 
sauce, and pour over them. 

Bacon omelet. 

Mince half a pound of lean bacon very fine and fiy in either 
butter or lard ; have the required number of eggs ready beaten 
and seasoned with salt and pepper, add to the bacon, and when 
the omelet is cooked, serve with piquante sauce. 

rCoffee blanc-mangre. 

Toast a quarter of a pound of coflfee-berries, grind, and put 
them in a tumblerful of boiling water, leave until the grounds 
have settled at the bottom of the tumbler, pour the clear coflfee 
into a bowl, and add half a pound of sugar and half an ounce 
of dissolved gelatine. Pound one pound of sweet almonds in 
a mortar, add three tumblersful of water, and squeeze the 
whole through a cloth ; pour half of this liquid on to the 
coflfee, and stir the other half into half a pound of sugar and a 
quarter of an ounce of gelatine, which have been dissolved in 
a tumblerful of warm water. Place a mould in a pailful of ice 
and pour in alternate layers of coflfee and milk of almonds as 
they freeze. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 1 19 



APRIL 28. 

Potage aux nouilles. German paste soup. 

Cabillaud ^ la hollandaise. Cod & la nollandaise. 

Poulets k la Marengo. Chicken ^ la Marengo. 

Pat^ froid. Cold pie. 

Pointes d'asperges au jus. Stewed asparagus heads. 

Cr^me au caf<6. Coffee creaHU 

Cold pies and how to zoake them. 

There are a variety of cold pies, such as veal and ham, 
chicken, fish, game, or foie gras. Line a mould with short 
paste and spread a thick layer of either meat, game, or fish 
forcemeat, fill up the mould with whatever meat or fish you 
intend using, press it down firmly, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and cover with a thick pie-crust ; make a hole in the 
centre, put in a small roll of paper to keep it open, and 
glaze with whipped white and yolk of egg. Bake the pie, 
and when done, keep until cold. Fill up the hole in the 
paste with a lump of uncooked flour and water until time to 
serve. 

Stewed aspaxafirus heads. 

Melt some fat of bacon, season with white pepper, a pinch 
of grated nutmeg, salt, chopped parsley and chervil ; add 
your asparagus heads, moisten with stock, and when cooked, 
stir in a little beef gravy, and serve. 



I20 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



APRIL 29. 

Potage printanier. Spring soup. 

Maqnereanz bouillis ou Ik Teau de Boiled mackerel. 

seL 
Marinade de cervelles. Brains ^ la Proven9ale. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Macaroni k Titalienne. Maccaroni k Titalienne. 

Otee fouett^ de fraises et de Whipped strawberry and raspberry 
firamboises. cream. 

Boiled mackerel. 

Clean out your fish, leave the livers, and cut several slits 
dossways down the sides, tie up the heads with string, and 
boil in strong salt and water, seasoned with pepper, parsley, 
itnd an onion; when cooked, drain, and serve with either 
mussel or caper sauce. 

Whipped strawberry and raspberry cream. 

Whip two pints of double cream, and put all the froth in 
a tine hair sieve. Crush a pound of mixed strawberries and 
raspberries through a sieve, sweeten the juice with powdered 
sugar, mix the cream and juice together, whip, and serve. 

Shrimp sauce. 

Take equal quantities of butter sauce (see 22nd of January), 
and white poivrade sauce (see 21st of March), warm in a 
saucepan with a little shrimp butter, a few drops of essence 
of anchovy, and some peeled shrimps. Serve very hot. 

Shrimp butter. 

Prepare the same as lobster butter (see 19th of February). 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 121 



APRIL 30. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Julienne maigre. Julienne soup for fast day. 

fiarbeau grille. Broiled barbel. 

CEufs k la tripe. Eggs k la tripe. 

Brochets k Thuile. Pike pickled in oil. 

Navets k la poulette. Turnips with white sauce. 

Souffle aux amandes (chaud). Hot almond souffle. 



Boiled barbel. 

Cut some deep slits down the side of the barbel, and fill 
them with fresh butter and salt, broil the fish and serve either 
with anchovy sauce, or green sauce, flavoured with salt, pepper, 
essence of anchovy, garlic, and chopped olives. 

EflTsrs k la tripe. 

Warm some slices of onion in fresh butter until quite soft, 
but do not let them brown, stir in a teaspoonful of flour, 
salt, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the necessary 
quantity of cream, in which to cook your eggs, reduce until 
quite thick, warm some sliced hard-boiled eggs in the sauce, 
and take off the fire before they boil. 

Turnips stewed in white sauce. 

Cut up some young turnips into small balls, blanch and 
boil them in white thickening, moisten with a little stock, 
boil until the sauce is reduced, sprinkle with powdered sugar, 
add a little fresh butter, and just before serving thicken with 
yolks of ^%%, 



122 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MAY I. 

Potage ^ la puree de pois verts. Pur^e of green peas. 

Barbae aux fines herbes. Brill stewed with mixed herbs. 

Poulets ^ la diable. Devilled chicken. 

Cochon de lait r6tL Roast siicking-pig. 

Carottes nouvelles a la sauce blanche. Young carrots stewed in white sauce. 

Giteau fourre. Open jam tart. 

Boast suckingr-piflT. 

Scald, scrape,, singe, and clean out your sucking-pig ; stuff it 
with fresh butter seasoned with chopped herbs, salt and 
pepper ; soak for half an hour in cold water, drain, dry in a 
cloth, roast it, and baste with olive oil. Hand piquante sauce 
separately. Another stuffing used for roast sucking-pig is to 
chop up the liver, with bacon, mushrooms, capers, mixed 
herbs, salt and pepper, warmed in butter. 

Hot pies. 

Line a plain mould with short paste, fill the centre with dry 
flour, cover with a layer of the same paste ; bake, and when 
done, take off the cover, remove the dry flour, turn out of the 
mould and fill the case with whatever stewed meat or game 
you have prepared, replace the cover, warm in the oven, and 
serve. 

SuckinflT-pigr pie. 

This pie must be served cold. See cold pies (28th of April). 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



Tt23 



MAY 2. 



Potage Faubonne. 
Perche grill^e. 

Lapin en gibelotte. 
Rognon de veau r6ti. 

Petits pois au jus. 
Tartlettes aux fraises. 



Faubonne soup. 

Broiled perch. 

Stewed eel and rabbit. 

Roast calf s kidney. 

Stewed green peas. 

Strawberry tartlets. 



Stewed eel and rabbit. 

Cut a rabbit and a small eel into pieces, warm in brown 
thickening seasoned with young onions and mushrooms ; when 
a good colour, add a little white wine, double the quantity of 
stock, salt, ' pepper, thyme, parsley, and chives ; take out the 
pieces of eel and the onions, cook the rabbit over a quick fire 
until the sauce is reduced two-thirds ; add the eel and onions, 
simmer until done, clear the sauce of all grease, and serve. Some 
people prefer to use the bottoms of artichokes instead of eel. 
Garnish with fried sippets of bread. 



Omelet. 

Break your eggs into a bowl, add salt, pepper, a little water, 
and some small lumps of butter, beat for one or two minutes ; 
melt a piece of butter in a fiying-pan, do not let it brown, pour 
in the eggs, keep shaking the frying-pan so that the omelet 
does not bum ; when nearly done place a lump of butter on it, 
fold, and serve very hot. . 



124 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MAY 3. 

Potage k la semoule. Semolina soup. 
Truites k la hussarde. Trout k la hussarde. 
Poulet r6ti. Roast chicken. 
Cdtelettes de mouton k la pur^e de Mutton cutlets with pur^e of mush- 
champignons, rooms. 
Petits pois nouveaux ^ Tanglaise. Green peas k Tanglaise. 
Omelette aux confitures. Sweet omelet with jam. 



Trout a la htissarde. 

Clean out your trout, and stuff with butter and chopped 
herbs, soak for an hour in olive oil, and broil them. Hand 
poivrade sauceboat. 

Babbits a la Yenitienne. 

Cut up a rabbit, lard all the large joints, braise in a stew- 
pan with some slices of veal, a tumblerful of white wine, half a 
tumblerful of olive oil, four heads of garlic, salt and pepper. 
Place the lid on the stew-pan, and cook over a moderate fire ; 
when done, dish up the pieces of rabbit in a p)n:amid ; pass the 
sauce through a tammy and pour over them. 

Caper sauce. 

Mix a quarter of a pound of butter, the same quantity of 
flour, a tumblerful of water, salt and pepper in a saucepan, 
when boiling take off the fire, stir in half a pound of butter; 
put some capers in a sauceboat, and pour the sauce over them. 
Make this sauce just before serving, and do not let it get too 
thick. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 125 



MAY 4. 

Potage paysanne. Peasant soup. 

Pi^ce de bceuf bouillie gamie 4 la Boiled beef ^ la for6t de S^nart. 
forSt de Senart. 

Poulets ^ la sauce tomates. Braised fowls with tomato sauce. 

Quartier de pre-sal^ r6ti. Roast shoulder of mutton. 

Fommes de terre k la parisienne. Potatoes ^ la parisienne. 

Meringues aux fraises. Strawberry meringues. 



OarniBh d la foret de S6nart. 

Tie up some large branches of parsley into bunches and fry 
in butter, place them as close as possible round your joint of 
boiled beef, so as to give the appearance of a forest. 

Braised fowls with tozoato sauce. 

Pluck and draw your fowls, remove the breast-bones and 
stuff them with melted butter seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
lemon juice. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, lay 
slices of lemon on the breasts of the fowls, place them in the 
pan, and cover the whole with slices of bacon, braise for 
three quarters of an hour with hot coals on the lid ; when 
cooked, dry the fowls in a doth, remove the slices of lemon, 
and serve on tomato sauce. 

Potatoes a la Parisienne. 

Chop up some onions very fine, and brown in equal quan- 
tities of butter and lard ; when a good colour, moisten with 
either water or stock, add your potatoes, season with a bouquet 
of herbs, salt and pepper. When cooked serve very hot. 

Ohoux, or liflrht batter-cakes. 

Prepare the same as nun's sighs (see loth of March), but serve 
cold, filled with cream. 



126 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MAY 5. 

Potage atix pites d*Italie avec Par- Soup with Italian paste and Par- 
mesan, mesan cheese. 

Filets de grondins en turban. Fillets of gurnet, turban fashion. 
Ris de veau en fricandeau. Fricandeau of sweet-breads. 

Filet de pore pique rdti. Roast fillet of pork larded. 

'Petits pois k I'anglaise. Green peas k Tanglaise. 

Madeleines. Madeleine cakes. 



Fricandeau of sweet-breads. 

Trim, drain, and blanch your sweet-breads, lard with well- 
flavoured bacon, and braise (see 28th of May) for three quarters 
of an hour. Pass the sauce through a tammy, reduce, add a 
pinch of powdered sugar, glaze the tops of the sweet-breads 
with it, and serve on a purde of either sorrel, tomato, chestnuts, 
or mushrooms ; or, better still, with some stewed cucumbers on 
a purde of either spinach or chicory. 

Madeleine cakes. 

Take eleven ounces of powdered sugar, half a pound of flour, 
six whole eggs, four yolks, two tablespoonsful of brandy, a 
pinch of salt, and the grated peel of a lemon, stir until 
thoroughly mixed; dip thirty-two small moulds into three 
quarters of a pound of melted butter, add whatever butter re- 
mains to the paste, stir in a saucepan until dissolved, pour into 
the moulds, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Fillets of gurnet, turban fJEtshion. 

Prepare the same as flllets of sole, turban fashion (see 22nd 
of April). 



THE i(^(> BILLS OF FARE, 127 



MAY 6. 

Potage Cond^. Cond^ soup. 

Barbue sauce hollandaise. Brill, Hollandaise sauce. 

C6telettes de veau ft la Gingarat. Veal cutlets ^ la Gingarat. 

Canetons r6tis. Roast ducklings. 

Concombres ^ la demi-glace. Glazed cucumbers. 

Pouding ^ la d^Orl^ans. Orleans pudding. 



Veal outlets d la Oinsrarat. . 

Cut up some pickled tongue into narrow strips, scrape a 
piec6 of lean bacon, season with white pepper and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, warm in a saucepan ; when cooked lard your 
cutlets with the fillets of tongue, toss them in a saucepan with 
fresh butter, when the meat is firm take off the fire. Line a 
stew-pan with slices of ham and bacon, add the trimmings of 
the tongue and the cutlets, cover with bacon and fill up the 
stew-pan with sliced carrots and onions, moisten with stock, and 
cook for two hours over a slow fire with hot coals on the lid. 
When done, drain and glaze the cutlets ; pass the sauce through 
a hair sieve, add a little brown thickening, reduce until half 
the quantity, and pour over the cutlets. 

Boast leer of mutton. 

Trim, beat your leg of mutton, and roast it ; allow a quarter 
of an hour for each pound ; add a little stock to the dripping, 
clear of all grease, and hand in a sauceboat, which has been 
heated in boiling water. 



128 THE z(i(i BILLS OF FARE, 



MAY 7. 

Consomm^ aux carottes nouvelles. Clear soup with slices of young 

carrots. 

Raie It la noisette. Fillets of skate. 

Oreilles de veau aux champignons. CalTs ears with mushrooms. 

Piptades r6ties. Roast guinea-fowl. 

Coquilles d*rfiufs aux huJtres. Scolloped eggs and oysters. 

Tourte k la frangipane. Frangipane tart. 



Fillets of skate. 

Boil two fine fillets of skate in salt and water, drain and 
place on a dish. Blanch and pound the liver of the skate, stir 
it into butter sauce (see 22nd of January), flavour with a tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and 
pour over the fillets. 

Scolloped eflrg-s and oysters. 

Melt some firesh butter, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, chopped parsley, chives, and morels; cook four 
dozen oysters in this sauce, and, when nearly done, add five or 
six sliced hard-boiled eggs, simmer over a slow fire for a 
quarter of an hour; pour into scollop shells, sprinkle with 
grated bread-crust, and brown in the oven. 

Fran^pane. 

An Italian prince called Caesar Frangipane is said to have 
given his name to this cream or custard, which is generally 
used for filling open tarts, dariole cakes, or tartlets. Take two 
whole eggs and four yolks, stir into sufficient potato flour to 
make a thick sauce, after which add two pints of milk or cream. 
Warm over a slow fire, stir until it boils, add a quarter of a 
pound of melted butter or beef marrow, continue stirring until 
quite thick, and flavour with vanilla. Cook in a bain-marie. 



THE z(^(i BILLS OF FARE. 129 



MAY 8. 

Potage aux choiix verts. Spring cabbage soup. 

Turbot sauce bechamel. Turbot, bechamel sauce. 
Lapereaux au chasseur. Young rabbits au chasseur , 

Rosbif a Panglaise. Roast beef. 

Morilles aux croiltons. Morels on toast. 

Cr^me au chocolat. Chocolate cream. 



Spring- cabbage soup. 

Prepare the same as cabbage soup (see 25th of February). 

Toti2ig> rabbits au chasseur. 

Cut up your rabbits into joints, and warm in a stew-pan over 
a quick fire, with some butter, chopped ham, parsley, onions, 
and chives, a crushed head of garlic, a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, salt and pepper ; sprinkle with flour ; when brown, 
moisten with equal quantities of white wine and stock, add 
two small basketsful of chopped mushrooms, and leave on the 
fire until the sauce is quite- thick. Remove the bouquet of 
herbs before serving. 

Morels on toast. , 

Warm some morels in butter, seasoned with parsley and 
chives, stir in a teaspoonful of flour, moisten with stock, and 
reduce, remove the parsley and chives, thicken the sauce with 
yolks of egg and cream, and sweeten with a little sugar. Cut 
a slice of crust off" a long, light roll, butter it on both sides, 
toast over a quick fire, place on a dish with the crumb side 
upwards, and fill with the stewed morels. 



I30 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



MAY 9. 

Potage k la parisienne. Parisian soup. 

Colin frit. Fried whiting pollock. 

Gigot ^ la Durand. Leg of mutton k la Durand. 

Pate de b^cassines. Snipe pie. 

CEufs brouilles aux pointes d'as- Buttered eggs with asparagus heads, 
perges. 

Pommes au riz. Stewed apples and rice. 



Fried whiting- pollock. 

This fish, which is a species of cod, is most wrongfully 
neglected, and if prepared in the following manner will be found 
excellent. Cut up your fish into slices about one and a half 
inches thick, soak for two hours in olive oil seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and mixed herbs ; warm three tablespoonsful of 
olive oil in a frying-pan, firy the slices of fish in it over a slow 
fire ; when done, drain, place in a dish and keep warm in the 
oven ; squeeze the juice of a lemon into the oil remaining 
in the frying-pan, season with salt and pepper^ beat well with 
a fork, which will thicken the sauce, pour over the slices of 
whiting pollock, and serve. 

Stewed apples and rice. 

Peel and scoop out the cores of some fine russet apples, 
simmer in clarified sugar until stewed. Blanch your rice and 
boil in milk, keep it firm by adding the milk gradually, sweeten 
with sugar, stir in a pinch of salt ; when done, pour into a 
dish, place the apples on the rice, fill all the spaces between 
the firuit with rice, and brown in the oven. Serve very hot. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 131 



MAY 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage k la pur^e de navets. Pur^e of turnips. 

Soles ^ la parisienne. Soles k la parisienne. 

Vol-au-vent de quenelles de poisson. Vol-au-vent of fish quenelles. 

Homard k la broche. Roast lobster. 

Asperges k la sauce blanche. Asparagus with white sauce. 

Talmouses k la Saint- Denis. Cheese biscuits k la Saint-Denis. 



Soles k la Paiisienne. 

Scrape and clean out your soles, cut off the heads and tails, 
and toss in a sautapan with sufficient fresh butter to cover 
them, sprinkle with chopped parsley, chives, salt and pepper ; 
turn the fish, and when cooked, dish up covered with Italian 
sauce. 

Cheese biscuits a la Saint-Denis. 

Take a large handful of fine wheaten flour, half a pound of 
cream curds, five ounces of Brie cheese, which has been care- 
fully scraped, and a pinch of salt, pound in a mortar, add five 
ounces of melted butter, stir in sufficient eggs to make a thick 
paste, which roll very thin, and cut out into small round 
biscuits. Bake in a quick oven, and serve hot. 

G-arlic butter. 

Pound six heads of garlic and pass through a tammy; 
pound with three ounces of butter until a thick cream. 



K 2 



132 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MAY II. 

Potage ^ la julienne. Julienne soup. 

Saumon grille. Broiled salmon. 

Rosbif garni de rissoles. Roast beef garnished with rissoles. 

Poulets r&tis. Roast fowls. 

Chicor^e au jus. Stewed chicory. 

Gel^e au citron Lemon jelly. 



Broiled sabnoxi. 

Cut the tail of a salmon into slices, soak for an hour in 
olive oil, season with parsley, mixed herbs, laurel-leaves, salt 
and pepper; broil on the gridiron, baste with some of the 
olive oil. When cooked, remove the skin, and serve covered 
with white caper sauce (see 31st of January). 

Prloandeau of veal. 

Lard one side of your chump of veal with thick fillets of 
l)acon, and the opposite side with very fine strips ; line a stew- 
pan with slices of bacon and beef, season with onions, carrots, 
two heads of cloves, and a bouquet of mixed herbs, add the 
veal, moisten with stock, and simmer for three or four hours, 
sprinkle with its own gravy from time to time. When cooked, 
take out the veal and pass the sauce through a tammy, reduce 
to a glaze in a stew-pan, place the veal on it with the finely- 
larded side downwards, and leave until a good colour. If any 
of the glaze sticks to the bottom of the stew-pan, add a little 
stock to it, and pour over the fricandeau. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 133 



MAY 12. 

Potage de riz a la puree de pois. Pur^e of peas with rice. 

Truite sauce genevoise. Trout, Geneva sauce. 

Poitrine de mouton brais^e Braised breast of mutton. 

Liapereaux r6tis. Roast young rabbits. 

Haricots panache ^ la maitre French beans and haricots ^ la 

d'h&tel. maitre d'h&tel. 

Meringues ^ la Chantilly. Meringues k la Chantilly. 



Braised breast of mutton. 

Line a stew-pan with slices of bacon, season with young 
onions, tarragon-leaves, a pinch of mixed spice, salt and 
pepper, add the breast of mutton, and as soon as it simmers 
moisten with two tumblersful of stock, and cook over a slow 
fire. When done, pass the sauce through a tammy, pour over 
the mutton, and serve. 

French, beans and haricots a la maitre d'h6tel. 

Boil equal quantities of French beans and fresh young 
haricot beans in salt and water; when cooked, drain and 
place in a dish near the fire. Melt a large lump of butter, 
flavour with chopped herbs, salt and pepper, warm the beans 
in this, and serve very hot. 

Pish grlaze. 

Simmer the head and trimmings of a turbot in a stew-pan 
with three or four whiting, the same quantity of gurnet, some 
onions, carrots, leeks, a bouquet of mixed herbs, a little salt, 
and a head of garlic ; cover with water and two tumblersful 
of white wine, cook over a slow fire for several hours, pass 
through a tammy, reduce until a thick glaze, and keep until 
required. 



134 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



MAY 13. 

Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

Tendrons de veau a la poulette. Breast of veal ^ la poulette. 

Filets de soles ^ la Orly, sauce Fillets of sole ^ la Orly, tomato 

tomates. sauce. 

Gigot r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Pur^e de haricots. Pur^e of haricot beans. 

BaYarois aux fruits. Bavarian cream and fruit. 



Breast of veal a la potilette. 

Cut up a breast of veal into small square pieces, blanch 
and drain, pass the water through a tammy, moisten the veal 
with some of it, and warm in a saucepan, stir in a little flour, 
some fresh butter, season with carrots, mushrooms, laurel- 
leaves, salt, black pepper, and a bouquet of chives parsley and 
thyme; when nearly done, add some young white onions. 
Place the pieces of veal in a dish, remove the bouquet, 
thicken the sauce with yolks of tgg^ flavour with a few drops 
of either vinegar or lemon-juice, pass through a tammy, and 
pour over the veal. 

Fturee of turnips. 

Cut up your turnips into small pieces, blanch, drain, and 
cook them over a slow fire in stock, season with salt, pepper, 
and butter. When done, pass through a wire sieve, and serve 
very hot. If the purde is not thick enough, add a little potato 
flour. 

Boiled egrgrs. 

Cook the eggs in boiling water for three minutes, when they 
will be ready for use. Another way of boiling eggs is to place 
them in a deep bowl, fill it up with boiling water, and serve in 
the bowL 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 135 



• MAY 14. 

Potage aux pites d'ltalie. Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Culotte de boeuf bouillie, sauce Boiled rump-steak, tomato sauce, 
tomates. 

Vives au gratin. Baked weaver or sea-dragon. 

Canetons r6tis. Roast duckling. 

Petits pois ^ la fran9aise. Green peas ^ la fran9aise. 

CEufs aux pistaches. ^ggs with pistachio nuts. 



Baked "oireayer or sea-dragron. 

Clean eight fine weavers, cut off their fins (be carefiil not to 
prick your fingers with them, as they are most poisonous), line 
an oval tin or plated dish with fresh butter about half an inch 
thick, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and lay the fish on it. 
Chop equal quantities of mushrooms, eschalots, and parsley 
very fine, warm with a little butter, a tumblerful of white wine, 
the same quantity of stock (if for fast day use water), and stir 
in a table-spoonful of flour ; cook for twenty minutes, stir with 
a wooden spoon, and pour over the weavers ; sprinkle with 
grated bread-crust, put a few pieces of butter about the size of 
a filbert on the fish, and bake for twenty minutes. 



Ste'oired oalfs ears and xnixslircoxiis. 

Boil the calfs ears in salt and water, drain, and place on a 
dish. Cook some mushrooms in biitter ; when brown moisten 
with stock, reduce, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, and 
pour over the calf's ears. 



136 THE 356 BILLS OF FARE. 



MAY 15. 

Brunoise aux croutons. Brunoise soup with bread-crusts. 

Brochet sauce aux anchois, Pike, anchovy sauce. 

Puree de lapereaux bordure de riz. Puree of young rabbits with rice. 

Quartier d'agneau r&ti. Roast forequarter of lamb. 

Asperges au beurre. Asparagus with butter. 

Gelee au citron. Lemon jelly. 



Puree of yoongr rabbits with rice. 

Roast your rabbits, cut off all the meat, chop it up, and 
pound in a mortar with a quarter the quantity of butter, and 
pass through a fine hair sieve. Boil the bones and trimmings 
of the rabbits in stock and a little brown thickening, stir in 
sufficient of this liquid into the pounded meat to make a nice 
pur^e, and pour into a dish lined with either paste or boiled 
rice, garnish with soft-boiled eggs, and serve very hot. This 
purde must never be warmed after the stock has been added 
to it, as it quite spoils the flavour. 



liemon jelly. 

Take one ounce of gelatine, half a pound of sugar, the 
juice of three fine lemons, and the peel of two of them, warm 
in two pints of water until the gelatine is dissolved, pass 
through a jelly-bag into a deep bowl, and when cold, whip on 
some ice until the jelly has thickened, pour into a mould, and 
leave in the refi'igerator until set. Turn out of the mould 
before serving. 



ThE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 137 



MAY 16. 

Potage ^ Toseille. Sorrel soup. 

Sole farcie aux fines herbes. Soles stuffed with mixed herbs. 

Rissoles de cr6tes de coq et de Rissoles of cockscombs and truffles, 
truffes. 

Filet de boeuf r&ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Chicor^e au jus. Stewed chicory. 

Souffle glac^ aux fraises. Iced strawberry souffle. 



Soles stuired with mixed herbs. 

Open your soles down the back, cut out a large piece of the 
back-bone and half boil in white wine ; when cold, stuff them 
with chopped parsley, chives and mushrooms, seasoned with 
pepper and salt and mixed with fresh butter, simmer in stock 
until cooked, and serve with their own sauce flavoured with 
lemon-juice. 

Bissoles of oookscombs and tmfiles. 

Scald and clean a dozen large cockscombs, boil in thin, 
white thickening (see i6th of April). When nearly cold cut into 
dice, and mix with chopped truffles which have been boiled 
in sherry, and moisten with reduced \\hite thickening. Roll 
out sonae puff paste, cut into pieces about four inches in 
diameter, bake for a few minutes so as to brown one side, lay a 
spoonful of rissole meat in the centre of each piece of paste, 
moisten the edges with ^gg^ fold them together, and press 
gently to make them stick ; dip each rissole into beaten eggs 
seasoned with salt and pepper, fry in boiling butter or lard, 
dish up in a pyramid, and garnish with fried parsley. 



138 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MAY 17. 

Potage k la pur^ de pois verts. Puree of green peas. 

Maquereaux aux groseilles vertes. Mackerel stuffed with green goose- 
berries. 

Poulet Marengo. Chicken ^ la Marengo. 

Pore frais r6ti. Roast pork. . 

Salade de legumes. Vegetable salad. 

Croquantes. Croquantes, or almond toffee. 

ICackerel stuffed "oirith. grreen erooseberxies. 

Pick and seed some half-ripe gooseberries, mix with a few 
pieces of fresh herring, chopped herbs, salt and cayenne 
pepper; stuff your mackerel with this, and boil in salt and 
water, season with shced onions, carrots, and turnips ; when 
cooked, drain the fish, and serve with green gooseberry sauce. 

Green erooseberry sauce. 

Pick and seed two large handsful of green gooseberries, 
soak in boiling water and salt, drain and warm in melted 
butter seasoned with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of grated nutmeg ; just before serving, stir in a little 
double-cream. The celebrated ** Mackerel Gooseberry " took 
its name from this sauce, which is of very old origin. 

CroqLuantes, or almond toffee. 

Blanch and dry a pound of Jordan almonds, cut up each 
almond into five or six pieces, and bake in a slow oven until 
a golden colour. Boil three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 
the snap, add your almonds, take the saucepan off the fire, 
stir the sugar and almonds well together, butter several small 
moulds, and line with the toffee as thin as possible. To avoid 
burning your fingers, use the slice of a lemon to smooth it 
round the mould. Some cooks pour the hot toffee into a 
buttered dish and cut it into squares. The sugar may be 
coloured with cochineal if preferred. 

Anchovy butter. 

Skin and scrape some well-soaked anchovies, pass through 
a hair sieve, and stir into the same quantity of butter as there 
is paste. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 139 



MAY 18. 

Potage pur^e Cr^cy. Cr^cy soup. 

Merlans grilles. Broiled whiting. 

Epaule d*agneau glac^e. Glazed shoulder of mutton. 

Poulets r6tis. Roast fowls. 

Pois au lard. Peas and bacon. 

Croquenbouche. Croquenbouche. 



Broiled whitiner. 

Scale, clean out your whiting, cut two or three slits down 
the sides, dip into olive oil, sprinkle, with salt and pepper, and 
broil over a slow fire, turn the fish several times, and dish up 
carefully, covered either with white caper sauce or tomato 
sauce. 

Peas and baoon. 

Cut up either some lean ham or bacon into dice, warm in 
butter, and when nearly done, moisten with stock, add your 
peas and a bouquet of herbs, chives, salt and pepper, cook 
over a slow fire, and take out the bouquet of herbs before 
serving. 

Croquenbouche. 

This name is given to all large set pieces for suppers or 
dinners, such as nougats, cakes, oranges, or nun's sighs, which 
have been covered with sugar, boiled to the snap, so as to 
give a brilliant appearance. The real meaning of croquen- 
bouche is " crackle in the mouth." 

Nougat. 

Prepare the same as croquantes (see 17th of May), only do 
not spread out so thin. 



140 THE 356 BILLS OF FARE. 



I 



MAY 19. 

Potage au vermicelle. Vermicelli soup. 

Barbue sauce hoUandaise. Brill, HoUandaise sauce. 

Pigeons aux pointes d'asperges. Stewed pigeons and asparagus 

heads. 
Gigot r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Choux-fleurs au gratin. Baked cauliflower with bread- 

crumbs. 
Ponding excellent. Excellent ^pudding. 

Ste'oired piereons with asparagrus heads. 

Stew the same as pigeons and green peas (see below) ; but 
the asparagus taking a shorter time to cook must be added only 
a few minutes before taking oflF the fire. 

Ste'wed pigreons and grreen peas. 

Split your pigeons open down the backs, stuff with their livers 
chopped up with bacon, bread-crumbs soaked in milk, chopped 
herbs, salt and pepper. Warm some butter in a saucepan ; 
when brown add a little chopped bacon and the pigeons, 
moisten with half a tumberful of water, season with two onions, 
a bouquet of herbs, salt and pepper ; add a pound of green 
peas, and simmer over a slow fire for an hour. Remove the 
bouquet of herbs, and dish up the pigeons on the peas. The 
sauce must not be too thin. 

An excellent pudding:. 

Take a pound of finely-chopped suet, one pound of stoned 
raisins, one pound of currants, eight yolks of ^%%^ four whites 
of t.gg^ half a pound of bread-crumb, one pound of flour, 
one pound of sugar, half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a 
dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, a pinch of salt, half a 
tumblerful of rum, some strips of mixed peel, and the grated 
peel of a lemon. Whip up the eggs, add a little milk, and 
stir into the remainder of the ingredients, if too thick moisten 
with milk ; tie up in a pudding-cloth, and boil for five or six 
hours. Serve with either rum or Madeira sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



141 



MAY 20. 



MENU EN MAIGRE. 

Potage aux herbes. 

Morue ^ la b^chameL 

CEufs brouill^s aux pointes d'as- 

perges. 

P4t^ de saumon. 

Marinade de fonds d'artichauts. 

Flan de cerises. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Herb soup. 

Cod, bechamel sauce. 

Buttered eggs with asparagus 

heads. 

Salmon pie. 

Stewed bottoms of artichokes. 

Open cherry tart. 



Herb soup. 

Take some white beet, lettuce, sorrel, and purslane-leaves, 
wash and dry them, warm in butter, stir m a little flour, moisten 
with water, thicken with yolks of ^g%^ and pour on to toasted 
bread-crusts. Keep the largest pieces of vegetable to lay on 
the top. 

Ood, b^hamel sauce. 

Take a large lump of butter, a dessert-spoonful of flour, salt, 
black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, chopped parsley and 
chives, stir into a tumblerful of cream, and leave on the fire 
until it boils, if too thick add a little more cream. Boil your 
cod in salt and water, break into 'flakes, and dish up in a 
pyramid, covered with the sauce. 

Buttered eersrs or omelet, with asparagrus heads. 

Blanch some asparagus heads, cut them into small pieces, 
and warm in white thickening, seasoned with chopped parsley, 
chives, salt and pepper; when cooked add a little milk, and 
pour, quite hot, over your eggs, which have been beaten and 
stirred in a saucepan over the fire, until done. Prepare the 
asparagus in the same manner if required for an omelet. 



142 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MAY 21. 

Potage de riz k la pa3rsanne. Peasant soup widi rice. 

Petits pdtes aux rognons. Kidney patties. 

Lamproie au supreme. Jugged lamprey. 

Bceuf ^ la mode. Boeuf ^ la mode. 

Poulets r6tis. Roast fowls. 

Haricots verts au beurre. French beans with butter. 

Souffle k la vanille. Vanilla souffle. 



Kidney patties. 

Remove the skin and fat from your kidneys, and cut up 
into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, warm in melted 
butter seasoned with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, and stir well. Line some patty pans with puflF paste, 
fill with the kidneys, and cover with a piece of paste large 
enough to go over the sides of the patty pans, and moisten 
the edges with water. Bake, and when done lift up the covers, 
fill the patties with veloutd (see 23rd of August), replace the 
covers, and serve immediately. 

Jugrgred lamprey. 

Cut up a lamprey into large pieces, and brown in butter ; 
add some truffles and morels ; when a good colour moisten 
with a tumblerful of red wine, season with salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of sugar. Serve with its own sauce, and garnish with 
sippets of fried bread. 

Creaxn sauce. 

Melt half a pound of butter, add a little flour, salt, pepper, 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; stir until quite thick, add a 
pint of cream and a little chopped parsley, leave on the fire 
for five minutes, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 143 



MAY 22. 

Potage an pain. Bread soup. 

Pi^ce de boei:?k la sauce Robert. Boiled beef, Robert sauce. 

Casserole de laitances. Stewed roe. 

Quartier de veau r6ti. Roast chump of veal. 

Asperges en branches. Asparagus. 

Cr^me viergc. Virgin cream. 



Stewed roe. 

Blanch your roe in boiling vinegar and water, drain, and stew 
for a quarter of an hour in equal quantities of stock and white 
wine, seasoned with a bouquet of herbs, a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, salt and pepper ; when cooked place the roe on a 
dish, reduce the sauce, thicken it with a little flour and butter, 
flavour with lemon-juice, and pour over the roe. 

Boast chump of veal. 

Soak a chump of veal for two days in white wine, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and mixed herbs. Lard and roast it. Serve 
covered with ravigpte sauce (see 29th of May). 

Virgrin cream. 

Take a little sugar, some lemon peel, and two or three 
laurel-leaves, boil, and pass through a tammy. Cut out the 
skins from the centre of four or five chicken gizzards, dry, 
pound them, and soak in lukewarm water until dissolved ; add 
to the sugar, pass through a tammy, flavour with orange-flower 
water, and pour into small china cups ; warm in a bain-marie, 
and serve very hot. 

Lobster batter. 

Pound the shell and spawn of a lobster, stir well into some 
butter, and pass through a sieve. 



144 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



MAY 23, 



Potage printanier. 

Bar sauce aux capres. 

Filet de mouton aux petits pois. 

Dindonneau rdti. * 

Asperges 4 la Pompadou 

Tartelettes aux ceri 



Spring soup. 

Bass, caper, sauce. 

Fillet of mutton and green peas. 

Roast turkey poult. 

Asparagus k la Pompadour. 

Cherry tartlets. 



Breast of veal with green, peas. 

Cut a breast of veal into pieces, blanch, and warm them in 
butter, add a little flour, a bouquet of mixed herbs, salt, pepper, 
and stock, stew over a slow fire ; add the peas in time to be 
done when the veal is cooked, and thicken the sauce with 
yolks of ^g%, 

Asparasrus It la Pompadour. 

Boil your asparagus in boiling salt and water ; when done 
cut it up into pieces about the length of your little finger, and 
place in a hot cloth near the fire. Take a little fresh butter, 
some yolks of egg, salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; 
cook in a bain-marie until thick ; dish up the asparagus, and 
pour the sauce over it. 



ICarrow quenelles. 

Take eight ounces of beef marrow, the same quantity of 
bread-crumbs, a dessert-spoonful of flour, five yolks of ^%%y a 
whole egg, salt, and pepper, naix until a smooth paste ; take a 
spoonful at a time and poach in boiling salt and water ; drain, 
trim and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 145 



MAY 24. 

Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

Culotte de boeuf gamie ^ la fla- Brisket of beef ^ la flamande. 
mande. 

CEufs poch^ i la sauce tomate. Poached eggs with tomato sauce. 

Goujons frits. Fried gudgeon, 

P4t^ de canards. Duck pie. 

Gel^e de fraises ^ la vanille. Strawberry and vanilla jelly. 



Brisket of beef a la Flamande. 

Bone, roll, and skewer your brisket, and simmer in stock 
for three hours. Place it in a stew-pan with a bottle of sherry 
or any dry white wine, and two tumblersful of stock, simmer 
until cooked. Blanch some cabbages, drain, and leave until 
cold ; press them well between two plates, so as to squeeze 
out all water, sprinkle with salt and pepper, tie round with a 
string, and boil in a large stew-pan, with uncleared stock, a 
piece of bacon, some sausages, German sausages, a bouquet of 
mixed herbs, salt and pepper ; cover with a buttered sheet of 
paper, and take out the bacon and sausages as soon as they 
are cooked ; when cold skin the sausages, and cut into slices, 
chop the bacon into dice, and warm in butter. Place the 
beef in the centre of a large dish, surround it with the cabbages, 
and garnish with the bacon, sausages, and some glazed turnips 
and carrots cut into balls. Strain a little of the gravy from 
the beef, stir it into Madeira sauce, and hand in a sauceboat. 



146 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



MAY 25. 

Potage pur^ de pommes de terre. Purfe of potatoes. 

Tanches frites Fried tench. 

Poitrine de veau farcie. Stuffed breast of veal. 

Cochon de lait au P^re Douillet. Sucking-pig au P^re Douillet. 

Haricots verts k la maStre d'h6tel. French beans k la maitre d'hdtel. 

Bavarois vanill^. Bavarian vanilla cream. 



Fried tenoh. 

Clean and scrape your tench very carefully, and soak for two 
hours in melted butter seasoned with chives, chopped parsley, 
salt, pepper, and vinegar. Flour, and fry them. Serve gar- 
nished with fried parsley. 

Snoklnff-piff au Fere Douillet. 

Cut off the pig's head, divide the body into four pieces, and 
lay in a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon, season with cloves, 
a pinch of grated nutmeg, powdered ginger, cinnamon, laurel- 
leaves, salt, pepper, slices of lemon, onions, carrots, and pars- 
nips ; cover with slices of bacon and veal, moisten with white 
wine, and simmer over a slow fire until thoroughly cooked. 
Drain the pork, pass the sauce through a tammy, pour it over 
the meat, and serve when cold. 

Sauce k la Duzelle. 

Take two tablespoonsful of chopped mushrooms, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, the same quantity of chopped 
eschalots, a head of garlic, a little scraped bacon, laurel-leaves, 
thyme, a pinch of mixed spice, salt and pepper ; warm in fresh 
butter, moisten with white wine, reduce, pass through a tammy, 
stir into a little white thickening, and use for either chicken or 
game entries. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 147 



MAY 26. 

Potage aux p^tes d'ltalie. Italian paste soup. 

Vol-au-vent d amourettes k la Vol-au-vent of beef tendons, 
cr^me. 

Selle de mouton gamie de rissoles. Saddle of mutton with rissoles. 

Pigeons r6tis au cresson. Roast pigeons and watercress. 

Asperges en branches. Asparagus. 

Meringues 4 la Chantilly. Meringues k la Chantilly. 



Vol-axL-vent of beef tendons. 

Make a vol-au-vent case of pufF paste, and bake. Remove 
the nerves and skins from two pounds of beef tendons, soak in 
warm water until perfectly white, and boil for ten minutes in 
water, vinegar, and salt ; when firm, drain them and cut into 
pieces about two inches long ; pour 9ome boiling water over 
them, leave for ten minutes, drain, and warm in veal stock. 
Warm the vol-au-vent case ; drain the tendons, pour some thick 
bechamel sauce (see 1 6th of August) over them, add twenty 
button mushrooms which have been boiled, fill the case with 
this, and serve very hot. It is a thousand pities that this 
delicious dish is not oftener given. 

Boast pigeons. 

Cover your pigeons with vine-leaves, wrap them up in bacon, 
and roast for half an hour. Serve with their own gravy, and 
garnish with watercresses. 

Soles with white wine sauce. 

Prepare the same as bream with white wine sauce (see 
27th of November). 



L 2 



148 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MAY 27. 

Potage bninoise aux pois. Brunoise soup with green peas. 

Soles au vin blanc. Soles with white wine sauce. 

Toume-dos aux olives. Fillets of beef and olives. 

Carr^ de pore frais r6ti. Roast loin of pork. 

Artichauts ^ I'essence de jambon. Stewed artichokes with essence of 

ham. 

Fkn meringu^. Frangipane tart. 



Boast loin of pork. 

Bone your loin, andleave it for three hours in a pan covered 
with coarse salt ; rub in the salt from time to time. Roast, 
and ser\''e with its own gravy in a sauceboat. 

Stewed artichokes with essence of ham. 

Trim the artichokes, cut out the chokes, and stuff with 
chopped mushrooms, minced bacon, parsley, and eschalots, 
which have been cooked in butter. Line a stew-pan with 
slices of bacon, add the artichokes, season with salt, pepper, 
and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; moisten with stock, and cook 
over a slow fire, with hot coals on the lid ; when done, dish 
up, covered with essence of ham. 

Essence of ham. 

Mince up some ham very fine, pound it, and warm in melted 
lard ; stir in a little flour. When a good colour moisten with 
either veal or common stock ; season with a bouquet of herbs, 
cloves, chopped mushrooms, and a teaspoonful of vinegar. 
Pass through a tammy, and pour over the artichokes. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 149 



MAY 28. 

Potage \ la julienne. Julienne soup. 

Boeuf brais^ aux carottes nouvelles. Braised beef and young carrots. 

Poulets k res.tragon. Chicken with tarragon. 

Lapereaux r6tis. Roast young rabbits. 

Haricots verts k Tanglaise. French beans k I'anglaise. 

Comp6te d'oranges. Compote of oranges. 



Braise. 

Braising is one of the most important parts of culinary art, 
as meat when cooked without allowing any evaporation retains 
all its sweetness and strength. 

Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon and beef about half 
an inch thick ; season with mixed herbs, onions, carrots, thyme, 
laurel-leaves, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and mixed spice. 
Place the piece of meat you are going to cook in the braising- 
pan, and cover with the same seasoning until the pan is full, 
fix on the lid as tight as possible, line the edges of the braising- 
pan with hot-water paste so that no air may get in, cover the 
lid with hot coals and simmer. When the meat is nearly 
cooked diminish the fire. This recipe is excellent for large 
joints of meat which require a good deal of flavouring. 

Pier's tail with a pur6e of peas. 

Cook the same as calfs ears (see 14th of May), and dish up 
on a pur^e of peas, lentils, or chestnuts. 



ISO THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



MAY 29. 

Potage printanier. Spring soup. 

Bar bouiUi sauce crevettes. Boiled bass, caper sauce. 
Moelle de boeuf ^ la Orly. . Beef marrow k la Orly. 

Gigot de pr^-sal^ r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Pommes sautees. Fried potatoes. 

Gateau d'amande massif. Almond cake. 



Beef marrow a la Orly. 

Cut your marrow into pieces about four inches long and two 
inches thick, soak in cold water, drain, and leave for an hour. 
Dip into hot meat glaze, place each piece separately on a board 
and when cold smooth round the edges, and twenty minutes 
before required dip them into batter and fry in boiling lard ; 
when a good colour, dry them in a cloth, dish up in a pyramid, 
sprinkle with salt, and garnish with fried parsley. Hand 
tomato sauce separately, and serve very hot. 

Bavig'ote sauce. 

Take equal quantities of white wine and stock, reduce to a 
brown thickening; season with chopped and blanched pim- 
pernel, tarragon, chervil and chive-leaves, lemon juice, salt 
and pepper ; stir the sauce until quite thick over a quick fire, 
but do not let it boil. 

Potatoes boiled In their skixis. 

Boil or bake some fine old potatoes without peeling them. 
Serve, wrapped up in a napkin. Hand butter sauce in a 
sauceboat. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 151 



MAY 30. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage pur^ de pommes de terre, Pur^e of potatoes with chervil- 

chifionnade de cerfeuil. leaves. 

Lottes en matelote. Stewed eel pout. 

Pit^ chaud de legumes. Hot vegetable pie. 

Homard k la broche. Roast lobster. 

CEufs k la cr^me. Eggs with cream. 

Glaces au four. Baked ices. 



Stewed eel pout. 

Clean out youi' eels and keep the livers; warm them in 
butter, moisten with white wine, and season with young 
blanched onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, salt and pepper ; 
when nearly done add the livers and some carp's roe ; simmer 
over a slow fire until cooked. Dish up each eel on a slice of 
toast, and cover with their own sauce. 

Baked loes. 

During the visit of the Chinese Ambassadors to Paris their 
Excellencies' chef exchanged civilities with the chef of the 
Grand Hotel, and amongst other things taught him how to 
bake either ginger or vanilla ices; and the following recipe 
will show how this delicious sweet is prepared. 

Make your ice very firm, roll out some light paste thin,, and 
cut it into small squares, place a spoonful of ice in the centre 
of each piece of paste, and fold it up carefully so that no air 
may get in, and bake. The paste will be cooked before the 
ice can melt In this dish gourmands have the pleasure o^ 
eating hot light paste, whilst their palates are cooled by the 
refreshing ice- 



152 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



MAY 31. 

Potage au petits pois. • Green pea soup. 

Pdt^ chaud de saumon. Hot salmon pie. 

Cotelettes de mouton jardiniere. Mutton cutlets i la jardiniere. 

Tambon glace. Glazed ham. 

Salade de legumes. Vegetable salad. 

Beignets de pommes. Apple fritters. 



Green pea soup. 

Boil your peas in boiling salt and water ; when cooked, stir 
in a large lump of butter, and pour over fried crusts of bread ; 
sprinkle with sugar. 

Hot salmon pie. 

Line a mould with hot-water paste. Warm some slices of 
salmon in butter, and season with salt, pepper, and finely- 
chopped herbs. Lard the salmon with fillets of anchovy and 
lay them in the mould, cover with hot-water paste, tgg over, 
and bake ; when done, take off the cover and fill up the mould 
with the following sauce. Take some court-bouillon (see i8th 
of April), season it with chopped eschalots and parsley, stir in 
,a little flour and butter, warm, and pour over the fish. It is 
customary to serve hot pies without the cover of paste, and to 
garnish them with crayfish. 

Anchovy sance. 

Clean and bone your anchovies, cook in a tumblerfiil of 
stock, and stir in a little flour and butter as soon as the sauce 
boils. Serve it in a sauceboat 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 153 



JUNE I. 

Potage Solf(6rmo. Solferino soup. 
Barbillons grUl& au beurre fondu. Broiled barbel with melted butter. 

Noix de boeuf brais^e. Braised chump of beef. 

Pigeons r6tis. Roast pigeons. 

F^ves de marais ^ la cr^me. Broad beans with cream. 

Tartes aux cerises. Cherry tartlets. 



Solferino soup. 

Take equal quantities of haricot beans, French beans, young 
potatoes, young carrots, green peas, three or four tablespoonsful 
of pur^e of tomato, chopped parsley, chives, and celery ; boil 
in stock, and pour over toasted bread-crusts. 

Braised ohump of beef. 

Prepare a braising-pan (see 28th of May), and put in a chump 
of beef (be careful that it is well covered, as it is a very dry 
joint), moisten with white wine and two wine-glasses of brandy, 
fix the lid on very tight, and cook over a slow fire. When 
done, place the beef on a dish, pass the sauce and vegetables 
through a tammy, clear of all grease, reduce it to a thin glaze, 
and pour over the beef. 

Broad beans with cream. 

Pick out the youngest and smallest beans and blanch them. 
If the beans are old they must be peeled. Boil them in milk, 
with some butter, chopped parsley, and salt ; thicken the sauce 
with two whipped yolks of egg, and stir in a little cream. 



154 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JUNE 2. 

Potage de riz 4 la pur^e de carottes. Pur^e of carrots with rice. 

Surmulet k la sauce matelote. Red mullet, matelote sauce. 

Escalopes de lapereaux aux pointes Scalloped young rabbits with 

d'asperges. asparagus. 

Pintade rotie. Roast guinea-fowl. 

Navets au jus. Stewed turnips. 

Beignets de fraises. Strawberry fritters. 



Scalloped young' rabbits with asparagus. 

Scallop your rabbits and cook in fresh butter; boil the 
trimmings and bones in stock, reduce, pass through a tammy, 
add a little white thickening, a lump of butter, a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, salt and pepper; stew some asparagus heads 
which have been blanched in this sauce, dish up the scallops, 
and pour the asparagus over them. 

stewed turnips. 

Peel and wash the turnips, boil in water, drain, and warm 
in butter with a little powdered sugar. When brown, remove 
the turnips, moisten the sauce with stock, season with a bou- 
quet of mixed herbs, salt and pepper ; reduce, skim off all 
grease, and pour over the turnips. 

Stuffed anchovies. 

Split open your anchovies, wash them in white wine and 
bone them. Mix some chopped fish, bread-crumbs, and 
yolks of ^gg together, stuff the anchovies with this, dip into 
batter, fry, and serve, garnished with fried parsley. 



THE idd BILLS OF FARE. 155 



JUNE 3. 

Vermicelle ^ la hollandaise. White vermicelli soup. 

Eperlans frits. Fried smelts. 

Poulet 4 la Marengo. Chicken i la Marengo. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Epinards k la cr^me. Spinach nnd cream. 

Comp6te d'abricots. Comp6te of apricots. 

White vermicelli soup. 

Boil the vermicelli in either chicken or veal broth, pass 
through a tammy, add the necessary quantity of either cream 
or milk, stir in some yolks of t%%, warm, and serve. 

Chicken d la ICarenffo. 

Cut up a chicken into joints, and cook in olive oil and a 
little salt, put in the legs before the other pieces, as they take 
longer to cook. When a good colour and nearly done, add a 
bouquet of mixed herbs, pepper, mushrooms, and some slices 
of truffles ; place the chicken on a dish, and add the oil drop 
by drop to some Italian sauce; stir the whole time. When 
warm, pour over the chicken, and garnish with fried eggs and 
sippets of fried bread. If preferred, clarified butter may be 
used instead of oil. 

Compote of apricots & la minute. 

Cut your apricots into halves, remove the stones, and boil 
in melted sugar for three minutes ; skim, flavour with orange- 
juice, and serve when cold. 

Eg-grs with cream sauce. 

Warm some cream sauce, add your sliced hard-boiled eggs, 
and serve. 

Cream sauce. 

Mix a little flour into half a pound of butter, season with 
pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, stir over the fire until 
thick, add a pint of cream and some chopped parsley, and 
leave on the fire for five minutes. 



156 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JUNE 4. 

Potage de riz au consomme. Clear soup with rice. 

Carrelets au gratin. Baked plaice. 

Poulets k Titaiienne. Chickens k Titalienne. 

Quartier d'agneau r6ti. Roast forequarter of lamb. 

Asperges en petits pois. Chopped asparagus with cream. 

Tourte aux abricots. Apricot tart 



Chickens k. I'ltalienne. . 

Chop up the livers of your chickens with some parsley, 
chives, mushrooms, scraped bacon, a lump of butter, mixed 
herbs, and spice ; stuif the chickens with this, brown for a 
few minutes in a little butter, cover with slices of bacon and 
buttered paper, and roast Blanch some parsley, chive and 
tarragon-leaves, drain carefully, chop very fine, and place in a 
saucepan with a tumbler of white wine, half a tumbler of 
olive oil, two chopped anchovies, half a lemon cut up into 
dice, a pinch of coarse black pepper and salt; warm and 
thicken with gravy and four yolks of egg. When the chickens 
are roasted, dish up, and pour this sauce over them. Serve 
very hot. 

Chicken fritters. 

Cut up some pieces of cold roast chicken, soak for an hour 
in vinegar, salt and pepper, dip into batter, and fry in boiling 
lard. Dish up, garnished with fried parsley. Hand tomato 
sauce in a sauceboat. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 157 



JUNE 5. 

Potage paysanne. Peasant soup. 

Abatis de volaille. Turkey or chicken giblets. 

Rosbif garni de pommes nouvelles. Roast beef and new potatoes. 

Langouste sauce au homard. Sea crayfish, lobster sauce. 

F^ves 4 la sarriette. Broad beans with cream. 

Omelette aux cerises. Cherry omelet. 



Turkey or chicken griblets. 

Take either some turkey or chicken giblets, gizards, and 
livers, scald, clean, and cut them up into pieces, do not use 
the heads. Warm in a saucepan with butter ; when brown, 
add five ounces of bacon, cut into four pieces, brown them 
also ; remove the giblets and bacon, stir a little flour into the 
butter, and when thick add two tumblersful of water ; season 
with salt, pepper, thyme, laurel-leaves, and an onion stuck 
with cloves ; simmer the giblets in this sauce for two hours. 
Blanch a dozen turnips in boiling water for a quarter of an 
hour, drain and add to the stew, with some sliced carrots, 
potatoes, chopped celery, and two lumps of sugar; when 
cooked, clear the sauce of all grease and serve very hot. 

Braised sheep's tongrues. 

Scald the tongues and lard them, braise (see 28th of May), 
and when cooked, pass the sauce and vegetables through a 
tammy ; pour over the tongues and serve, garnished with either 
gherkins or capers. 

Chopped asparagus with cream. 

Cut up some green asparagus into small pieces, blanch in 
boiling water for three minutes, simmer in a saucepan for 
half an hour, with butter, a lump of sugar, an onion, and not 
more than three tablespoonsful of water ; remove the onion, 
and thicken the sauce with either yolks of egg or cream. 



158 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JUNE 6. 

Potage ^ la pur^ de lentilles. Pur^ of lentils. 

Truite k Tespagnole. Trout k Tespagnole. 

Pigeons en compdte. Stewed pigeons. 

Gigot de mouton r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Haricots verts saut^. French beans with butter. 
Flan de cerises. Open cherry tart. 

Pnree of lentils. 
Prepare the same as pea soup (see 23rd of January). 

Trout & I'espagnole. 

Clean and scale your trout, stufif them with fresh butter, 
mixed with chopped parsley, chives, eschalots, salt and pepper; 
soak for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with parsley, chives, 
th)Tne, laurel-leaves, salt, and whole black pepper. Dip some 
paper in the oil, cover with as much of the seasoning as possible, 
wrap round the trout and broil; when cooked, remove the 
paper and herbs, and serve, covered with anchovy sauce. 

Stewed pigeons. 

Cook some dice of bacon in butter; when a good colour 
remove them, and brown your pigeons in the same butter; 
sprinkle them with flour, moisten with stock, add the pieces 
of bacon, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and some mushrooms ; 
when the pigeons are three quarters cooked, add some young 
ooions, which have been browned in butter and slightly sprinkled 
with sugar ; when the pigeons are cooked, remove the bouquet 
of herbs, skim all the grease oif the sauce, and serve, garnished 
with fried sippets of bread. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 159 



JUNE 7. 

Potage aux oeufs poch^s. Clear soup with poached eggs. 
Piece de boeuf sauce Robert. Boiled beef, sauce Robert. 

Carpe ^ la bi^re. ^^T ^°^^®^ ^'^ beer. 

Quartier d'agneau r6ti. Roast forequarter of lamb. 

Pommes sautes. Fried potatoes. 

Flan de fraise. Open strawberry tart. 



Clear sonp with poached egrers. 

Poach some eggs, and add them to your stock in the soup- 
tureen. Hand the vegetables which have flavoured the stock 
in a separate dish. 

Carp boiled in beer. 

This is a very old and good recipe. Line a fish-pan with 
slices of bacon, chopped onions, eschalots, carrots, and mixed 
herbs ; put in the carp, sprinkle with salt, and pour in sufficient 
beer to cover about three quarters of the fish ; lay a sheet of 
buttered paper over it, and place the fish-pan in a moderate 
oven, turn the fish in half an hour ; when cooked remove the 
carp ; pass the sauce through a tammy, clear of all grease, and 
warm in a saucepan ; as soon as it boils, stir in some stale 
grated bread-crumbs ; take off the fire, continue stirring until 
quite thick ; pass through a hair sieve and pour over the carp, 
which must be previously garnished with stewed lettuces, 
young onions, mushrooms, and fish quenelles. If any sauce 
remains, hand it in a sauceboat. 



i6o THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JUNE 8. 

• 

Potage au vermicelle. Vermicelli soup. 

Perches'grill^es sauce k la moutarde. • Boiled perch, mustard sauce. 

Noix de veau piqu^e i la flamande. Larded chump of veal \ la flamande. 

Caneton r6ti. Roast duckling. 

Petits pois en cosses. Green peas boiled in their shells. 

Cr^me au the. Tea cream. 



G-reen peas boiled In their shells. 

There is a pea now cultivated which, when young, has such 
tender shells, that they are able to be eaten as well as the 
peas. Boil for half an hour in water, drain, and warm in butter ; 
stir in some cream, thicken with yolks of ^gg^ and flavour 
with a few drops of vinegar. 

Sheeps' trotters, Robert sanoe. 

Boil the trotters in salt and water ; when done, drain, and 
simmer for three quarters of an hour in Robert sauce ; season 
with salt and pepper, and just before taking off the fire stir in 
a teaspoonful of mustard. 

Boast beef with potatoes. 

Roast your joint of beef, and serve with its own gravy. Boil 
some potatoes, warm them in melted butter, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley, and hand in a separate dish. 

Tea cream. 

Warm a pint of cream until reduced to half the quantity ; 
-^ add a small teacupful of strong tea, three yolks of egg, and a 
K little sugar, stir well, pass through a fine cloth, and pour into 
Hf a' large mould or several small ones; cook in a bain-marie 
If . until set. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, i6t 



JUNE 9. 

Potage pur^e de pois verts, Pur^e of green peas. 

Boeuf ^ la mode. Boeuf ^ la mode. 

Plit^ chaud de godiveau. Hot forcemeat pie. 

Pigeons rotis. Roast pigeons, 

^pinards au velout6. Spinach boiled in velout6 sauce. 

Tartlettes aux cerises. Cherry tartlets. 



Boeuf a la mode. 

Lard a nimp-steak with well-seasoned bacon ; if preferred, 
the steak can be cut into squares about the size of the palm of 
your hand ; place in a deep dish or bowl, season with salt, 
pepper, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a head of garlic ; place 
the bowl in a large stew-pan half full of boiling water, and cook 
over a slow fire ; as soon as the gravy begins to come out of 
the meat, cover it with slices pf bacon, make a larger fire, and 
keep it up until the steak is thoroughly done; just before 
taking off the fire add a tumblerful of red wine, pass the sauce 
through a tammy, reduce, and pour over the beef. If the 
" bceuf \ la mode " is to be eaten cold, use equal quantities of 
veal and bacon to cover it, substitute a liqueur-glassful of 
brandy for the red wine, and cut the steak into squares, as the 
glaze will cover them better. 

Fried soles. 

Clean and skin your soles ; if preferred, they can be filleted ; 
dip them into milk, sprinkle with flour, fry in boiling lard ; 
when a good colour, dry in a cloth, and serve, garnished with 
parsley. 



M 



1 62 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JUNE 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage aux lazagnes. Italian paste soup. 

Raie au beurre noir. Skate, black butter sauce. 

Lottes ^ la parisienne. Eel pout ^ la parisienne. 

Buisson d^ecrevisses. Crayfish. 

CEufs k Toseille. Eggs with pur^e of sorrel. 

Salade de l%umes. Vegetable salad. 

Croquettes die riz. Rice croquettes. 



Eel pout 4 la Parisienne. 

Scrape and clean your eels, keep the livers, boil in raire poix 
(see 4th of October), and serve, covered with oyster sauce, to 
which you have added the livers, chopped up into small pieces. 

Bioe croquettes. 

Wash the rice, blanch it in boiling water, and soak in cold 
water until cool ; cook in boiling milk, with a little sugar and 
lemon peel, over a slow fire \ stir the rice occasionally, so that 
it may not burn ; when done spread it out about three inches 
thick on a wooden slab, leave until cold, cut it into squares, 
sprinkle with grated bread-crumb; roll into croquettes, dip 
into beaten yolks of ^%%^ bread-crumb, and fry in boiling lard 
or butter. Serve very hot, sprinkled with powdered sugar. 
The rice may be flavoured with vanilla instead of lemon, if pre- 
ferred. 

Baked barbel with Parmesan cheese. 
Prepare the same as baked brill (see 25th of March). 

Eg'g's with pur^e of sorrel. 

Make a pur^e of sorrel (see 23rd of December), use cream 
instead of stock for fast days, dish up, garnished with poached 

eggs. 



k 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 163 



JUNE II. 

Potage Cr^cy au riz. Cr^cy soup with rice. 

Maquereaux grilles sauce ravigote. Broiled mackerel, ravigote sauce. 

Selle de mouton k la fran9aise. Saddle of mutton \ la fran9aise. 
Terrine de foie gras. Pat^ de foie gras. 

Pourpier en friture. Purslane fried in batter. 

Creme br^^e. Burnt cream. 



Pat6 de foie grras. 

Have a foie gras weighing about a pound and a half. Make 
some forcemeat with one pound of turkey breast, one pound of 
fresh pork, mixed herbs, laurel leaves, thyme, salt, pepper, and 
two heads of cloves, and pound well. Peel one pound of 
truffles carefully, and stick some large pieces into the foie gras. 
Line the bottom of a deep dish with some of the stuffing, lay 
the foie gras on this, surround it with the remainder of the 
truffles, fill up all interstices with the stuffing, and cover the 
whole with slices of bacon and laurel leaves. Cook the pie in 
a bain-marie over a slow fire, keep the water at boiling point, 
but be Careful none gets into the pie. It generally takes 
about an hour and a half to cook a pie of this size. Stick a 
skewer into the centre, and if burning hot when taken out 
you will know that the pie is done. When cold, remove the 
slices of bacon and cover with a layer of lard. Some people 
prefer the pie baked in the oven, as they consider it has more 
flavour. If the pie is to be eaten immediately, calf s liver 
forcemeat (see next page) may be used, instead of turkey and 
pork. 



M 2 



i64 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JUNE 12. 

Potage printanier aux oeufs poch^s. Spring soup and poached eggs. 

Petits pat^s au jus. Forcemeat patties. 

Cotelettes de mouton gamies de Mutton cutlets with French beans, 
haricots verts. 

Jambon roti. Roast ham. 

Epinards au veloute. Spinach boiled in velout^ sauce. 

Flan de fruits. Open fruit tart. 



Oxavy patties. 

Line some small moulds with light paste, and fill with what- 
ever forcemeat fancied (several different recipes are given in 
this book), cover the moulds with paste, egg over, and bake ; 
when done remove the covers, scoop out the forcemeat, turn 
the patties out of the moulds, and fill them with well-seasoned, 
reduced gravy. 

Open fruit tart. 

Line a plain mould, about three inches deep, with short 
paste. Take some stoned cherries, sliced peaches, apricots, 
nectarines, and gooseberries, stir well in a bowl with some 
powdered sugar, pour into the mould, and bake in a quick 
oven ; crack the apricot stones, blanch the kernels, and garnish 
the tart with them. If the fruit seems too dry, pour a little 
clarified sugar over it before taking out of the oven. 

Oalf s liver forcemeat. 

Cut a pound and a quarter of calfs liver into dice, add 
them to three quarters of a pound of melted lard, season with 
salt, pepper, mixed spice, and laurel leaves ; stir over a quick 
fire with a wooden spoon for at least four minutes ; leave 
until cold, pound, and pass through a tammy, when it will be 
ready for use. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 165 



JUNE 13. 

Potage ^ la julienne. Julienne soup. 

Matelote de carpe et d'anguille. Stewed carp and eel. 

Queues de boeuf ^ la Sainte-Mene- Ox-tail soup ^ la Sainte-Menehould. 
hould. 
Volaille r6tie. • Roast fowl. 

Petits pois k la parisienne. Green peas \ la parisienne. 

Garottes au sucre. Gar rots stewed in sugar and cream. 



Ox-tail a la Sainte-Menehould. 

Cut the tail into joints, and cook in stock; when done, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip into melted butter and 
bread-crumb, repeat this, and either bake or broil. Dish up 
on stewed red cabbage, or a purde of green peas, or with 
Italian or piquante sauce. 

Green peas a la Parisienne. 

Shell some small green peas, wash them, and boil over a 
moderate fire for half an hour in a little water, season with salt, 
butter, a pinch of powdered sugar, a bouquet of parsley, and 
some young onions ; when done remove the parsley and onions, 
stir in a lump of butter, mixed with a little flour, and, when 
melted, serve. 

Carrots stewed in suarar and cream. 

Boil some fine carrots in water, and leave on the fire until 
the water is nearly all absorbed, mash the carrots, add a little 
milk, a tablespoonful of potato flour, a pinch of powdered 
sugar, and some dried orange flowers. Stir in sufficient eggs 
to thicken the sauce, but reserve a third of the whites, whip 
them up with some fresh butter, add to the carrots, place the 
saucepan in the oven, and, when done, pour into a deep dish, 
sprinkle with sugar, and serve very hot. 



1 66 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JUNE 14. 

Potage i la Brisse. Soup \ la Brisse. 

Rosbtf sauce raifort. Roast beef, raifort sauce. 

Vol-au-vent ^ la financi^re. Vol-au-vent k la financiere. 

Brochet piqu^ ^ la broche. Roast larded pike. 

Fondue au fromage. Fondue of cheese. 

Bayarois au cafe. Bavarian coffee cream. 



Soup 1^ la Brisse. 

m 

This soup, which is composed of chicken stock with dice of 
vegetable cream, is a charming addition to the culinary art. 
Take some asparagus, for example, boil it, pass sufficient 
through a fine hair sieve to fill a wine-glass, beat up two eggs 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg in a bowl, add two wine-glasses- 
ful of chicken stock and the pur^e of vegetable, stir well 
and pass through a tammy. Butter a plain mould, pour in ' 
the pur^e, and cook in a bain-marie ; when done, take off the 
fire, and when set, turn the cream out of the mould and cut it 
up into dice, place them in your soup-tureen, and pour the 
necessary quantity of chicken stock over them. A variety of 
different coloured creams can be obtained by making them of 
carrots, turnips, beetroot, or peas ; of course, cooking them in 
separate moulds. 

Fried purslane a la KCilanaise. 

Soak some branches of purslane for several hours in lemon- 
juice, with a little powdered sugar and a stick of cinnamon. 
Dip into batter, and fry in boiling lard over a moderate fire. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 167 



JUNE 15. 

Consomm^ au macaroni avec Par- Maccaroni soup with Parmesan 

mesan. cheese. 

Choucro{ite gamie. Stewed pickled cabbage and ojrsters. 

Oreilles de veau ^ I'itaUenne. Calfs ears ^ Titalienne. 

Lapereaux r&tis. Roast young rabbits. 

Artichauts sauce au beurre. Artichokes with butter sauce. 

Comp6te de groseilles. Comp6te of gooseberries. 



OalTs ears k I'ltalienne. 

Scald, scrape and drain the ears, place them in a saucepan 
lined with bacon, cover with slices of bacon, moisten with 
equal quantities of stock and white wine, add some peeled 
slices of lemon — be careful there are no pips — a bouquet of 
mixed herbs, carrots, turnips, onions, salt and pepper ; cook 
over a slow fire. Make a stuffing with bread-crumbs, milk, 
and either grated Parmesan or Gruyfere cheese ; warm until 
sufficiently thick, stir in four yolks of egg and a lump of 
butter, fill the calf s ears with this, dip into melted butter, 
sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, brown 
in the oven, and serve. 



Oompote of red or wMte grooseberries. 

Boil half a pound of sugar to the snap, add a pound of 
picked gooseberries, let them boil over two or three times, 
skim, and pour into a glass dish. Serve when cold. 



1 68 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JUNE 16. 

Julienne de legumes nouveaux. Julienne soup with fresh vegetables. 

Aigle de mer a la hollandaise. Homfish, Hollandaise sauce. 

Canard aux navets. Stewed duck and turnips. 

Carr^ de veau roti aux fines herbes. Roast fillet of veal with fine herbs. 

Aubergines ^ la lyonnaise. Egg plant ^ la lyonnaise. • 

Tartlettes de fraises ^ la cr^me. Strawberry tartlets and cream. 



Homflah, HoUandaise saace. 

This is a species of blue sword-fish, even the bones being 
blue. Boil in salt and water^ and serve with Hollandaise sauce 
in a sauceboat. 

Cauliflow^er w^ith cheese. 
Prepare the same as baked cauliflower (see 28th of January). 

Boast fillet of veal with fine herbs. 

Lard the fillet, and soak for three hours in olive oil, season 
with finely-chopped parsley, chives, fennel, mushrooms, laurel 
leaves, thyme, eschalots, salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg. Before roasting, cover the fillet with the seasoning, 
wrap it up in thickly buttered- sheets of paper, tie or skewer 
the paper on very firm, so that the herbs may not fall off, and 
roast j when done, remove the paper, scrape off the herbs, and 
warm them in a saucepan with some gravy, a teaspoonful of 
vinegar, a little butter, salt and pepper. Stir the yolk of an 
egg into some melted butter, rub the fillet with this, bread- 
crumb, and brown in the oven. Hand the sauce separately. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 169 



JUNE -17. 

Potage i roseille, chiffonnade de Sorrel soup with chopped chervil, 
cerfeuil. 

Petits pit^s aux ^crevisses. Crayfish patties. 

Chou farci. Stuffed cabbage. 

Poularde r6tie. Roast fowl. 

Epinards au jus. Stewed spinach. 

Meringues \ la creme. Meringues with cream. 



Orayflsh patties. 

Make two pints of brioche paste (see 24th of December), but 
use only a quarter of a pound of butter, equal quantities of 
egg and vater, and some German yeast ; when the paste has 
risen to double its original size, put it in a cool place or on 
ice until quite firm. Roll it out very thin, and cut it into 
twenty-four small rounds about three inches in diameter, 
sprinkle a board with water, and lay the paste on it, place a 
small quenelle offish on twelve of the rounds and two shelled 
crayfish \ cover with the remaining twelve pieces of paste, press 
together with a small round tin cutter, tg% over, and bake. 
Serve very hot. These can be fried in boiling lard or butter, 
if there is no oven. 

Stewed spinach. 

Warm the spinach in fresh butter, season with salt, black 
pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, moisten with either veal 
stock or the dripping from a fricandeau of veal which has 
been reduced ; when done, stir in a little butter, and serve, 
garnished with firied sippets of bread. 



■1 



170 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JUNE 18. 

Potage pur^ de pois aux croAtons. Pur^e of green peas with toast. 

C6te de boeuf brais^e gamie de Braised ribs of beef and stuffed 

tomates farcies. tomatoes. 

Croquettes de poisson. Croquettes of fish. 

Caneton de Rouen roti. Roast duckling. 

Artichauts k I'essence de jambon. . Artichokes with essence of ham. 

Souffle glac^, vanille et diocolat. Iced coffee and vanilla souffle. 



Stuifed tomatoes. 

Dip your tomatoes into boiling water for a minute, peel, 
make a hole near the stalk, scoop out the centre of the toma- 
toes with a small spoon, and place them on a buttered or oiled 
sheet of paper in a baking tin. Make a stuffing with sausage- 
meat and very thin tomato sauce, fill the tomatoes with this, 
sprinkle with grated bread-crust, and bake. Serve as soon as 
the stuffing is browned. 

Burnt cream. 

Warm four fine yolks of ^g% and a pinch of flour, stir well 
and add a pint of milk gradually, flavour with cinnamon and 
dried lemon peel ; if required to be very nice, flavour with 
pounded pistachio nuts, almonds, or macaroons, and a little 
orange-flower water. Continue stirring until cooked, be care- 
ful the cream does not burn. Put a silver or tin dish in the 
oven, sprinkle the bottom of it with powdered sugar, moisten 
with a little water, and when the sugar is browned, add the 
cream, and serve immediately. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 171 



JUNE 19. 

Potage \ la parisienne. Parisian soup. 

Matelote d'anguilles. Stewed eels. 

Poulet saut^. Brown fricassee of fowl. 

Rosbif d'agneau i la broche. Roast larded hindquarter of lamb. 

Pommes de terre nouvelles saut^es. New potatoes warmed in butter. 

Comp6te d'abricots. Comp6te of apricots. 



Boast larded blndauaxter of laxnb. 

Scald the lamb, remove the skin from all the fleshy parts, 
lard the meat which has been skinned very fine, skewer the 
lamb so as to keep it a good shape, wrap in a buttered sheet of 
paper, and roast. When done, remove the paper and glaze the 
meat wherever larded with strong meat glaze, and serve with 
clear gravy. 

Compote of ripe apricots. 

If very ripe, do not peel your apricots ; cut them into halves, 
remove the stones, boil in water until quite soft, drain and 
leave until cold; stew them in clarified sugar, skim, and if, 
when the apricots are done, the syrup is not sufficiently thick, 
remove the fi*uit, and boil the sugar until a proper substance, 
pour over the apricots, garnish with the kernels, and serve when 
cold. 

Green grooseberry sauce. 

Boil your gooseberries in hot melted butter, a little sorrel- 
juice, and season with powdered ginger, salt, and pepper. 



172 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JUNE 20. 



MENU EN MAIGRE. 

Potage 4 la puree de pois vei*ts. 

Carpe 4 la marini^re. 

Vol-au-vent d'oeufs. 

Homard ^ la broche. 

Macaroni ^ Titalienne. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Puree of green peas. 

Carp k la marini^re. 

Vol-au-vent of eggs. 

Roast lobster. 

Maccaroni cheese. 



Flan d*abricots k la Mettemich. Open apricot tart k la Mettemich. 

Carp a la mariniere. 

Cook the same as mussels k la marinibre (see 31st of July). 



Maccaroni cheese. 

Boil your maccaroni in salt and water. Lay alternate layers 
of the boiled maccaroni and grated Parmesan cheese in a deep 
dish, moisten with gravy, and when the dish is quite full, pour 
some melted butter over it; allow half a pound of butter 
to every two pounds of maccaroni. Warm in the oven, and 
serve. 

Open apricot tart a la KCettemicli. 

Line a plain mould with short paste ; peel some fine apricots 
very carefully, remove the stones and lay the fruit in the mould, 
separate each apricot by four stoned cherries, sprinkle with 
sugar and bake. Pound half of the apricot kernels and all 
those of the cherries, stir into a little cream until thick, sweeten 
with powdered sugar, pour over the apricots and serve, not too 
hot This is a most delicious sweet. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 173 



JUNE 21. 

Consomm^ aux laitues. Clear soup with lettuce leaves. 

Melon. Melon. 

Raie au beurre noir. Skate with black butter. 

Croquettes de palais de boeuf. Croquettes of ox palates. 

Gigot roti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Haricots panaches sautes. French beans and haricots with 

butter. 

Gateau d'amandes. Almond cake. 



How to choose a xnelon. 

You can always tell if a melon has ripened on the plant, or 
if it has been ripened artificially, by examining the stalk, as if 
the latter^ it will be quite shrivelled. If the melon is heavy 
it proves it is not spongy ; if the skin smells strong it in- 
dicates a well- flavoured melon ; and if on pressing the little 
round opposite the stalk you find it not quite hard you may 
feel sure that the fruit is ripe. Some good housewives bite 
the stalks of the melons before buying them, as they say that 
the more bitter the stalk the sweeter the melon. Melons are 
generally served after the soup. Some people eat sugar with 
their melon, which is a great mistake, as it makes it more 
difficult to digest ; salt and pepper, on the contrary, help the 
digestion immensely. 

Oroquettes of ox palates. 

Boil three ox palates in water; trim, scrape, skin, and cut 
them into quarters ; simmer for half an hour in stock ; season 
with a head of garlic, two heads of cloves, thyme, laurel leaves, 
salt and pepper ; drain, and leave until cold. Lay a small 
teaspoonful of beef forcemeat on each piece, roll up into the 
shape of a cork, dip into very thin paste, made with a table- 
spoonful of olive oil, a little flour, a tumblerful of white wine, 
and a pinch of salt, it must be almost liquid ; fry in boiling 
lard or butter, and serve very hot, garnished with fried parsley. 



174 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JUNE 22. 

Potage ^ la julienne. Julienne soup. 

Soles au gratin. Baked soles. 

Timbales de semoule au chasseur. Timbales of semolina au chasseur. 

Lapereaux sautes. Young rabbits fried. 

Tendrons oe veau en mayonnaise. Mayonnaise of tendons of veal. 

Macaroni h. Titalienne. Maccaroni cheese. 

Mac^doine de fruits. Mac6doine of fruit. 



Timbales of semolina an chasseur. 

Butter eighteen small moulds, and fill with semolina which 
has been boiled in stock ; when cold, turn out of the moulds, 
sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and dip into beaten yolks of Qg%^ 
which have been sturred into melted butter with salt and 
pepper ; bread-crumb again, press a round tin cutter an inch 
smaller than the moulds into the top of the timbales, and fry ; 
when done, scoop out the centres and fill with a forcemeat 
of young rabbit (see forcemeat, 28th of August), mixed ¥rith a 
pur^e of mushrooms. Warm in the oven, and serve. 



Mayonnaise of tendons of veal. 

Cut up the tendons into pieces of equal size, blanch them, 
and boil in stock ; when done, warm them in either thin glaze 
or their own sauce reduced ; when cold, place round a dish; 
cover with Mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with cold onions, 
which have been boiled in stock, and gherkins. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 175 



JUNE 23. 

Potage Cr6cy. Cr^cy soup. 

Croquettes de volailles. Chicken croquettes. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Pommes de terre saut^es. Fried potatoes. 

Buisson d'^crevisses. Crayfish. . 

Beignets d'abricots. Apricot fritters. 



Oliioken oroauettes. 

Mince and pound all the flesh of a large chicken ; reduce 
two large cupsful of stock, add the pounded chicken to it, stir 
well, and thicken with four yolks of eggs \ when done, take 
lumps about the size of a walnut, roll in bread-crumbs with 
your hand until the shape of a large cork, dip into beaten 
yolks of egg, bread-crumb, and fry in boiling butter ; when a 
good colour, dish up, and serve very hot. 

Apricot fritters. 

Cut the apricots into halves, they must not be too ripe, 
soak in brandy, with a little sugar and lemon peel for an hour ; 
drain, dip in batter, and fry; drain again, and serve, sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. 

Boast beef with forcemeat patties. 

Roast your joint of beef, and serve, garnished with forcemeat 
patties. 



176 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JUNE 24. 



Potage de mouton h. I'oseille. 
Gigot bouilli sauce au capres. 

Canard aux olives. 

Langue de boeuf k I'ecarlate. 

Petits pois k I'anglaise. 

Gel^e de cerises. 



Mutton soup with sorrel. 

Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce. 

Duck and olives. 

Boiled pickled tongue. 

Green peas k I'anglaise. 

Cherry jelly. 



Pickled oz-tongne. 

Trim either a pig's or ox-tongue, singe it over hot cinders 
for a few seconds, skin it, and rub some saltpetre and coarse 
black pepper thoroughly into it, place in an earthenware pan 
with a close-fitting lid, cover the tongue with coarse salt, 
season with cloves, thyme, laurel leaves and whole black 
pepper ; keep it in pickle for a fortnight, turn and rub it every 
day, and as the salt begins to melt, add a few handsful to it. 
When ready to use, soak the tongue for two hours, and boil in 
water with onions, cloves, thyme, and laurel leaves, take off 
the fire when cooked, and leave in the stew-pan until cold. 
Serve cold. 



Mayonnaise sauce. 

Take four yolks of egg, a pinch of salt and white pepper, 
and a little grated nutmeg, stir quickly in a bowl with a 
wooden spoon, add a bottle of olive oil drop by drop, and 
flavour with a few drops of vinegar. If the sauce becomes too 
thick, stir in a little water. A teaspoonful of mustard is some- 
times added to the Mayonnaise. Before serving, stir in a few 
chopped chervil or tarragon leaves. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



177 



JUNE 25. 



Potage printanier. 

Perches grilles sauce moutarde. 

Palais de boeuf k la lyonnaise. 

Poulet r6ti, cresson. 

Haricots verts k Tanglaise, 

Tarte de groseilles ^ maquereau. 



Spring soup. 

Broiled perch, mustard sauce. 

Ox palates ^ la lyonnaise- 

Roast fowls and watercress. 

French beans k I'anglaise. 

Green gooseberry tart. 



Oz palates a la lyonnaise. 

Blanch and trim the palates, place on the gridiron for a 
minute, skin them, and cook in white thickening (see i6th of 
April). When done, cut the palates into small pieces, stir 
them into a purde of onions (see i ith of December), and serve. 

Boast fowl. 

Cover your fowl with a buttered sheet of paper or with 
slices of bacon, roast, and a few minutes before taking off the 
spit, remove the paper or bacon. When a good colour, dish 
up the fowl, and garnish with watercress. 

Shrimp sauce. 

Boil a quart of shelled shrimps for five minutes in half a 
pound of melted butter and a tablespoonful of anchovy 
butter, flavour with the juice of a lemon, stir well, and serve in 
a sauceboat. 

Trout, G-eneva sauce. 

Boil the trout in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), and hand 
Geneva sauce with them. 

G-eneva sauce. 

Stir a lump of butter the size of an egg and a dessert- 
spoonful of flour in a saucepan over the fire until brown, 
moisten with a tumblerful of red wine and a tumbler and a 
half of the liquor in which the troiit is boiling, flavour with 
three sliced onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, salt, pepper, 
and a few chopped mushrooms ; simmer for half an hour, and 
just before serving, add either a wine-glassful of Madeira or a 
teaspoonful of brandy ; pass through a tammy, and serve. 

N 



178 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JUNE 26. 

Potage de concombre au consomme Cream soup with cucumber. 

lie. 

Selle de mouton en broche. Roast saddle of mutton. 

Canard au Pere Douillet. Braised duck au P^re Douillet. 

Goujons frits. Fried gudgeon. 

Epinards k la maitre d*h6tel. Spinach a la maltre d'h6tel. 

Macedoine de fruits. Mac^doine of fruit. 

Boast saddle of mutton. 

Wrap up the saddle in buttered sheets of paper, fix it on to 
the spit with skewers so that it may not turn, and roast for 
two or three hours, according to the size of the joint, serve 
with its own gravy or a purde of haricot beans \ la Bretonne. 

Braised duck au Fere Douillet. 

Truss your duck, cover with slices of bacon, and braise it 
(see 28th of May), moisten with equal quantities of white wine 
and stock, and add some slices of lemon ; when cooked, re- 
move the duck, reduce the sauce, pass through a tammy, and 
pour over the bird. 

Spinach d la ma'^tre d'hbtel. 

Boil your spinach in boiling water. When done, soak in 
cold water for two minutes, drain, and cut it up into large 
pieces, warm it in a saucepan, season with salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of grated nutmeg; when quite hot, add a lump of 
butter ; stu* until quite melted, and serve. 

Fiquante sauce. 

Stir a little stock into some brown thickening, add three 
tablespoonsful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of chopped escha- 
lots, a bouquet of parsley, black pepper, and a laurel leaf; 
reduce, add a little salt, if necessary ; pass through a tammy, 
and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 179 



JUNE 27. 

Potage Saint-Germain. Soup 4 la Saint-Germain. 

Soles au vin blanc. Soles boiled in white wine. 

Aloyau de bceuf ^ la proven9ale. Sirloin of beef k la proven9ale. 
Pigeons r6tis. Roast pigeons. 

Petites fbves ^ la sarriette. Young broad beans with cream. 
Beignets de fleurs de sureau. Elder fritters. 



Sirloin of beef a la Proven9ale. 

This is an excellent old recipe, which I am sorry to say is 
seldom used. Lard the sirloin with fillets of ham ; chop up some 
raarrow, scraped bacon, anchovies, mixed herbs, and garlic ; 
stir well into butter, olive oil, salt and pepper ; spread this 
stuffing on to slices of bacon, lay them on the beef, skewer or 
tie them on, cover with buttered sheets of paper, and roast ; 
when nearly done, remove the paper and bacon so as to brown 
the meat. Add a little of the gravy cleared of all grease, to 
some piquante sauce, and hand in a sauceboat ; squeeze a few 
drops of lemon over it just before serving. 

Elder-flower fritters. 

Break up some elder-flowers into small sprigs, and soak 
for two hours in either sherry or brandy, with a little sugar ; 
drain, dip into batter, to which you have added a little 
brandy and a few drops of orange-flower water ; fry until a 
golden colour, and dish up in a pyramid. 

Boast shoTellers. 

This bird, which is a species of wild duck with red-webbed 
feet, is only found up rivers. Roast the same as wild duck. 



N 2 



i8o THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JUNE 28. 

Potage au riz 4 la peluche de Rice soup with chervil leaves. 

cerfeuil. 

Noix de veau piqu^ k fci hour- Larded chump of veal k la bour- 

geoise. geoise. 

Escalopes de lapereaux au fumet Scalloped young rabbits with white 

sauce. 

Brochet au bleu. Pickled pike. 

*CEufs poch^s k la puree de tomates. Poached eggs with tomato sauce. 

Beignets de pommes de terrc. Potato fritters.* 



Scalloped yotuier rabbits iTith. 'wMte sauce. 

Scallop your rabbits and 'place round a buttered tin or plated 
dish with large slices of uncooked truffle between each scallop. 
Pound the trimmings of the rabbits, stir them into reduced 
Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November), pour over the scallops, 
cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake ; when done, 
take off the paper, and serve. 
• 

Braised saddle of lamb garnished with rissoles. 

Braise the same as saddle of mutton (see 6th of February), 
and garnish with rissoles. 

Potato fritters. 

Stir three ounces of potato flour into a pint of milk, warm 
for a quarter of an hour; flavour with pounded macaroons, 
sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water ; boil and add 
two yolks of egg, stir with a wooden spoon until a thick batter, 
pour into a dish, when cold, roll into small balls, egg and 
bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling lard. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 181 



JUNE 29. 

P6tage consomm^ aux oeufs poch^s. Ckar soup with poached eggs. 

Saumon k la hoUandaise. Salmon, HoUandaise sauce. 

Cote de boeuf gamie d'aubergmes Ribs of beef with stuffed egg plant, 
farcies. 

Pintade r6tie. Roast guinea-fowl. 

Petits pois k Panglaise. Green peas \ Tanglaise. 

Comp6te d*abricots k la Breteuil. Broiled apricots k la Breteuil. 



Clear soup. 

Take four pounds of gravy-meat, a fowl, and two knuckles 
of veal ; place them in a stockpot and fill it up with stock ; cook 
over a moderate fire, skim, and each time the soup boils up, 
pour in half a tumblerful of cold water; flavour with salt', 
carrots, turnips, onions, and three heads of cloves. When the 
meat is quite done, pass the soup through a fine tammy or 
cloth, and serve very hot. Hand poached eggs in a separate 
dish. 

Fillets of beef iTith poivrade sauce. 

Cook your fillets in a saucepan with fresh butter; when 
cooked, dish up, cover with poivrade sauce, and serve. 

Broiled apricots a la Breteuil. 

Cut the apricots into halves, remove the stones, sprinkle 
with candied sugar, and broil them on the gridiron over hot 
cinders; when done, place in a glass dish. Pound some 
apricots, raspberries, and sugar together, boil, and pour over 
the broiled fruit. Serve very hot. 



i82 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JUNE 30. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage maigre au racines. Vegetable soup for fast day. 

Carpe ^ la normande. Carp ^ la normande. 

Mariande de choux-fleurs. Cauliflower fritters. 

Anguille k la broche. Roast eel. 

Macaroni au gratin. Maccaroni cheese. 

Gdteau d'amandes. Almond cake. 



Veeretable soup for fiskst day. 

Take four ounces of carrots, half an ounce of turnips, half 
an ounce of leeks, two ounces of onions, one ounce of celery, 
salt and pepper \ cut up the vegetables into thin strips and 
warm in three quarters of a pound of butter ; when a good 
colour add four pints of liquor, in which haricot beans have 
been boiled, and the same quantity of lentil liquor ; simmer for 
four hours. Cut half a pound of bread-crust into small strips, 
put them in the soup-tureen, and pour the soup over them. 



Boast eel. 

Skin a large eel, lard it finely, and soak for three hours in 
equal quantities of vinegar and stock, season with salt, pepper, 
and chopped mixed herbs. Wrap up the eel in a sheet of 
buttered paper, and roast before a slow fire ; baste with hot 
white wine and boiling lard; just before taking off the spit 
remove the paper so that the eel may brown. Dish up, cover 
with Italian sauce, and garnish with sippets of fried bread. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 183 



JULY I. 

Pot-au-feu. Pot-^u-feu, or uncleared stock, 

Boeuf bouilli garni d'oignons glacis. Boiled beef and glazed onions. 

Cervelles ^ la proven9ale. Calf s brains k la proven9ale. 

Poularde r6tie. Roast pullet. 

Haricots verts ^ la maJtre d'hotel. French beans k la mattre d*h6tel. 

CEufs aux pistaches. ^ggs with pistachio nuts. 

Fot-au-feu, or tmcleared stock. 

Prepare the same as stock (see 26th of March), but serve with 
all the vegetables ; do not skim the soup ; and two hours 
before serving add a white cabbage cut into quarters. 

Calfs brains a la provenpale. 

Wash and blanch the brains, boil in stock, add three table- 
spoonsful of olive oil, a tumblerful of white wine, salt, pepper, 
lemon-juice, chopped parsley, chervil leaves, and a head of 
garlic, the three latter must be previously blanched; when 
done remove the brains, reduce the sauce, and pour over them. 
Another way of serving this dish is to sprinkle it with bread- 
crumbs, and brown in the oven, or to cover the brains with 
piquante sauce. 

Egr^ with pistachio nuts. 

Take a little fine white flour, stir for a few minutes into 
cream, flavour with grated lemon peel, sugar, and pounded 
pistachio nuts ; add six fresh eggs, stir over the fire for five 
minutes, pour into a plated dish, and bake in a slow oven ; con- 
tinue stirring until the eggs are cooked, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, and brown with the salamander. 

Boast lapwing:. 
Truss and clean your birds, cover with slices of bacon and 
roast, when cooked, cut them in half, dish up in a pyramid, 
pour some strong meat glaze over them, and serve with strong 
clear gravy. 



i84 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JULY 2. 

Potage \ la pur^e de haricots. Puree of haricot beans. 

Surmulet au beurre fondu. Red mullet with melted butter. 

Cotelettes de veau k la Gingarat. Veal cutlets k la Gingarat. 

Lapereaux rotis. Roast young rabbits. 

Pur^e de ftves aux croutons. Puree of broad beans with sippets. 

CEufs aux pistaches. Egg with pistachio nuts. 



Puree of haricot beans. 

Allow four ounces of butter to each quart of haricot beans ; 
boil in water, and flavour with an onion stuck with cloves, a head 
of celery, a carrot, salt and pepper ; when thoroughly cooked 
remove the onion, celery, and carrot, pass the beans through a 
tammy — if the haricots are very hard it is better to pound 
them first. Stir in sufficient stock to make the pur^e a proper 
substance, stir over the fire until it boils, and pour over a 
quarter of a pound of rice, which has been cooked in butter, 
salt, and water ; add a quarter of a pound of butter, and con- 
tinue stirring until quite melted. Hand fried dice of bread 
separately. Green pea and pea-soup are made in the same 
manner. 

Braised pier's ears. 

Clean, singe, and scrape the ears ; line a braising-pan with 
bacon, add the ears, cover them with slices of bacon, and season 
with onions, carrots, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; moisten 
with stock, and when done remove the ears, pass the sauce 
through a tammy, skim off all grease, and pour over the pig's 
ears ; dish up on a pur^e of spinach. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 185 



JULY 3. 

Potage cr^me d'orge garnie de petits Pur^e of barley with green peas, 
pois. 

Carpe grill ^e. Broiled carp. 

CStes de boeuf aux racines. Stewed ribs of beef. 

Pigeons r6tis, cresson. Roast pigeons and watercress. 

Concombres k la bechamel. Cucumber with bechamel sauce. 

Beignets de patates. Sweet potato fritters. 



Broiled carp. 

Clean out and scale a fine carp, rub it over with oil, and 
broil; dish up on a purde cf sorrel, and cover with either 
white caper sauce, maitre d'hotel sauce, or with oil and 
vinegar. 

stewed ribs of beef. 

Lard some rolled ribs of beef, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and braise them (se*e 28th of May) ; blanch some carrots, and 
simmer in stock until reduced to a glaze ; make a little brown 
thickening with butter and flour, moisten it with some of the 
liquor from the beef ; warm this sauce, skim off all grease, and 
pass through a fine sieve on to the carrots ; when quite hot 
place round the beef and serve. 

Sweet potato fritters. 

Wash and peel the sweet potatoes, cut them up to about the 
length and thickness of salsifis, soak for half an hour in brandy 
and a little lemon peel; drain, dip into batter, fry, and when 
a good colour, dish up, sprinkled with powdered sugar. 

Iced bomb. 

Fill two halves of a round mould the shape of a bomb with 
the same cream as for iced souffles (see 31st of August), fit the 
two halves firmly together, and freeze ; dip into cold water 
before turning the ice out of the mould. 



1 86 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JULY 4. 

Potage k la julienne. Julienne soup. 

Turbot sauce au raifort. Turbot with raifort sauce. 

Poulets sautes. Brown fricassee of fowl. 

Rognon de veau roti. Roast calf s kidney. 

Marinade de choux-fleurs. Cauliflower fritters. 

Mousse aux fraises. Whipped strawberries and cream. 



Turbot with, raifort sauce. 

Clean out your turbot, wash it thoroughly inside and out, 
split it half-way down the back-bone from the middle of the 
body to the head, raise the sides with a knife, cut out. the 
bones at the opening, tie or sew up the head, rub over, with 
lemon -juice, and boil in salt and water with a little lemon peel 
over a quick fire; as soon as the water boils over, make a 
smaller fire, cover the turbot with a buttered sheet of paper, 
and leave to simmer ; a quarter of an hour before serving, drain 
the fish, and dish up on a napkin with a laige bunch of parsley 
in the centre, so as to raise the fish, and surround with parsley. 
Hand both raifort sauce and lobster butter with the turbot 

Baba, or rum. cake. 

Take a quarter of a pound of flour, make a well in the 
centre, stir half an ounce of German yeast, dissolved in hot 
water, into it, roll into a ball, and keep in a warm place, 
wrapped in a cloth until risen to twice its original size. Take 
three quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, 
three eggs, half an ounce of powdered sugar, and a pinch of 
salt, stir well together, add five eggs, one after another, then 
the ball of yeast, an ounce of chopped citron, an ounce of 
currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins ; knead the paste 
thoroughly, and put it in a large mould, capable of holding 
twice the quantity, leave until it has risen to nearly the top of 
the mould, bake, and when done, turn out of the mould, and 
cover with the following sauce. Dissolve some apricot jam in 
two tumblersful of clarified sugar and two wine-glassesful of 
rum, and boil until a thick sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 187 



JULY 5. 

Potage consomm6 au riz. Clear soup with rice. 

Canard aux navets. Braised duck and turnips. 

Quenelles frites. Fried quenelles. 

Gigot d'agneau r6ti. Roast leg of lamb. 

Haricots panaches. French beans and haricots ^ la 

ma!tre d'h6tel. 

Omelette aux cerises. Cherry omelet. 



Braised duck and turnips. 

Pluck, singe, and draw your duck; line a braising-pan with 
slices of bacon, add the duck, cover it with bacon, and season 
with a bouquet of parsley, carrots, slices of parsnip, thyme, 
laurel leaves, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; moisten with either 
stock or water, and the same quantity of white wine, fix the lid 
very tight on to the pan, and simmer over a slow fire, with hot 
coals on the lid ; cut up some turnips into balls, cook them in 
butter until brown, drain, and simmer in brown thickening, 
moistened with a little stock ; when the duck is cooked, dish 
up, and garnish with the turnips. 

Veal cutlets d la G-in^arat or Salnt-G-arat. 

Trim the cutlets, lard with lean bacon, and warm them in 
butter ; line a stew-pan with slices of ham and bacon, add the 
cutlets, and cover them with bacon ; season with carrots, 
onions, and a bouquet of mixed herbs; moisten with stock, and 
simmer, with hot coals on the lid of the stew-pan. When the 
cutlets are done, remove them; pass the sauce through a 
tammy, add a little stock to it, reduce, and pour over the cut- 
lets, which can be served on a pur^e of mushrooms or toma- 
toes. 



t88 



THE 7,(i(i BILLS OF FARE. 



JULY 6. 



Potage Crecy. 
Chapon au gros sel. 
Queues de mouton frites au Par- 
mesan. 
Jamboii k la broche. 
Chicor^e ^ la cr^me. 
Bombe panach^e. 



Crecy soup. 

Boiled capon. 

Fried sheep's tails. 

Roast ham. 

Puree of chicory with cream. 

Iced bomb. 



Boiled capon. 

Pluck and singe a capon, draw it, and remove the gall from 
the liver ; truss it for boiling, rub over with lemon-juice, cover 
with slices of bacon, and place in a stew-pan ; surround it with 
Onions, carrots, the neck and gizzard of the capon, and some 
trimmings of veal ; moisten with stock, and simmer for two 
hours ; serve, sprinkled with coarse salt. Pass the sauce 
through a tammy, and hand in a sauceboat. 



Fried sheep's tails. 



Braise the sheep's tails, dip into beaten yolks of ^%%^ and 
sprinkle with equal quantities of grated Parmesan cheese and 
bread-crumbs ; fry in lard. Dish up in a pyramid, and garnish 
with fried parsley. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. i«9 



JULY 7. 

Potage de pommes de terre, chiffon- Pur6e of potatoes with chervil 
nade de cerfeuil. leaves. 

Saumon saut^. Scalloped salmon with white sauce. 
Poulet ^ la Orly. Fried chicken ^ la Orly. 

Rosbif ^ Tanglaise. Roast beef. 

Puree de navels. Puree of turnips. 

Tarte aux cerises. Cherry tart. 



Scalloped salmon with wMte sauce. 

Cut up a piece of fresh salmon into thin scallops, press with 
the blade of a knife, which has been dipped in cold water ; 
melt some butter in a saucepan, lay the scallops in it side by 
side, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and shake the saucepan 
over a quick fire. Warm some reduced stock, add the butter 
in which the fish was cooked, season with chopped blanched 
parsley, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon ; 
thicken with yolks of tg%^ dish up the salmon scallops, and 
pour the sauce over them. 

Fried chicken a la Orly. 

Cut up a chicken into joints, season with salt, pepper, pars- 
ley, laurel leaves, and lemon- juice, sprinkle with flour and fry 
in lard or butter ; dip some sliced onions into flour, and fry 
them also; when done, dish up the chicken in a pyramid, 
garnish with the fried onions, and cover with tomato sauce. 

Fork cutlets with poivrade sauce. 

Trim your cutlets, broil, and serve, covered with poivrade 
sauce. 



I90 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JULY 8. 

Potage printanier aux oeufs poch6s. Spring soup with poached eggs. 

Maquereaux ^ la fiamande. Mackerel k la flamande. 

Pigeons k la crapaudine. Broiled pigeons. 

Rosbif k I'anglaise. Roast beef. 

Pommes de terre sautees. Fried potatoes. 

Meringues a la cr^me. Meringues with cream. 



Mackerel & la Flamande. 

Clean the^ackerel, and stuff with butter mixed with chopped 
eschalots, chives, lemon-juice, salt and pepper ; wrap in sheets 
of buttered paper, tie up the ends with string, and broil over a 
slow fire for twenty-five minutes ; remove * the covers, and 
serve. 

Broiled pigeons. 

Pluck, draw, singe, and truss your pigeons ; beat them until 
flat, and warm in melted butter, seasoned with salt and pepper ; 
when nearly cooked, remove the pigeons, sprinkle them with 
bread-crumbs, and broil over a moderate fire until a good 
colour. Dish up, covered with piquante sauce. 

Forequarter of southdown mutton a la Bretonne. 

Roast the mutton, wrapped up in buttered sheets of paper, 
and serve on a puree of haricot beans k la Bretonne. 

Croustade of rice. 

Fill a fancy mould with rice prepared in the same manner 
as for rice cake (see 30th of March) ; bake, turn out of the 
mould, scoop out the centre, pour in a little unsifted cornflour, 
which has been cooked in milk, with sugar, and one or two 
yolks of t%g^ and fill up with hot rice croquettes. 



THE idd BILLS OF FARE. 191 



JULY 9. 

Potage ^ la parisienne. Parisian soup. 

Barbillon grille. Broiled young barbel. 

Toume-dos sauce poivrade. Fillets of beef, poivrade sauce. 

Dinde en daube. Stewed turkey -hen. 

Champignons au gratin. Baked mushrooms with bread- 
crumbs. 

Tarte aux cerises. Cherry tart. 



Stewed turkey-hen. 

Pluck, draw, and singe a fine turkey-hen ; lard it with thick 
fillets of highly-seasoned bacon, and place in a stew-pan with 
stock, half a wine-glassful of brandy, slices of bacon, half a 
calf's foot, onions, carrots, a bouquet of mixed herbs, a head 
of garlic, thyme, laurel leaves, and two heads of cloves ; if a 
young turkey-hen, simmer for four hours, but if an old bird 
leave on the fire for six hours ; take the stew-pan off the fire 
and leave the turkey in it until nearly cold; drain, and place it on 
a dish ; pass the sauce through a silk tammy, clarify it, and when 
cold, pour over the turkey. If required for a hot dish, garnish 
the turkey with the vegetables in which it has been cooked ; 
reduce, the sauce and pour over it. 

Fennel sauce. 

Boil a bouquet of fennel and one of parsley, chop them up 
fine, and stir into melted butter. 

Fried quenelles. 

Make your quenelles, and dip into reduced bechamel sauce, 
roll them in bread-crumbs, egg and bread-crumb them a second 
time, fry, and serve, garnished with fried parsley. 



192 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JULY 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OK FARE FOR FAST DAY. 
Potage ^ la puree de carottes. Pur^e of carrots. 
Croquettes de semoule au Parmesan. Semolina croquettes with Parmesan. 
Anguille ^ la poulette. Eel a la f)oulette. 
Pdt^ de saumon. Salmon pie. 
Pommes de terre en puree, gra- Baked pur^e of potatoes with bread- 
tinges, crumbs. 
Giteau de riz sauce aux groseilles. Rice cake with gooseberry sauce. 



Fur^e of carrots. 

Mince up two pounds of the best red parts off some carrots, 
warm in half a pound of butter, and add two pints of water ; 
season with onion, two heads of cloves, a head of celery, salt 
and pepper ; when the carrots are thoroughly boiled, pass 
them through a tammy, add two quarts of water to the pur^e, 
and boil for three quarters of an hour either in the oven or over 
a slow fire ; put some boiled rice in the soup-tureen, and pour 
the soup over it. 

Eels ii la poulette. 

Scrape and skin the eel, cut off the head and tail, cut up the 
body into pieces ; blanch, and drain them ; warm in butter and 
a little flour until brown ; moisten with white wine and stock, 
season with salt, a bouquet of mixed herbs and mushrooms ; 
skim all grease off the sauce ; reduce, thicken it with yolks of 
egg, flavour with lemon-juice, and serve. 



\ 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 193 



JULY II. 

Potage ^ la pur^e d'artichauts. Pur^e of artichokes. 

Fraise de veau au naturel. Stewed neck of veal. 

Moules ^ la poiilette. Mussels k la poulette. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Pommes de terre frites. Fried potato chips. 

Darioles duchesse. Duchess loaves. 



Stewed neck of veal. 

Soak a neck of veal in luke-warm water, blanch it in boil- 
ing water for ten minutes; drain, skin, and boil in water; 
season with a lump of butter mixed with a little flour, salt, 
pepper, onions, carrots, parsnips, a bouquet of parsley, chives, 
a head of garlic, and two heads of cloves ; when cooked, remove 
the veal, reduce the sauce, pass through a tammy, add some 
chopped gherkins and a few drops of vinegar, and hand in a 
sauceboat, at the same time as the veal. 



UusselB d la poulette. 

Thoroughly wash and clean the shells, cook in white wine, 
and as soon as the mussels begin to open, remove either half 
or the whole of the shells ; place the mussels in another 
saucepan with some butter, coarse black pepper, a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, chopped chives and parsley, toss, stir in a 
little butter, and moisten with stock and some of the liquor in 
which the mussels were boiled, which pass through a tammy, 
boil for a few seconds, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, 
and serve. 



o 



194 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JULY 12. 

Potage a la pur^e de ponimes de Puree of potatoes. 

terre. Stewed carp, pike, perch, barbel. 

Matelote marini^re. and eel. 

Filets de pigeons k la Duxelles. Fillets of pigeon k la Duxelle. 

Filet de pore roti. Roast fillet of pork. 

Choux-fieurs au gratin. Baked cauliflower and brt;ad- 

crumbs. 

Abricots k la Conde. Apricots k la Conde. 



Fillets of pigreon a la Duxelle. 

Cut, trim, and beat a dozen fillets of pigeon, sprinkle with 
salt, and cook in a saucepan with some butter ; when done, 
drain, leave until cold, glaze with cold Duxelle sauce (see 25th 
of May) ; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, ^g% and bread-crumb 
a second time. Just before serving, brown the fillets in 
clarified butter, drain, place round an entree dish, fill the 
centre with chopped mushrooms cooked in Proven9ale sauce 
(see 26th of December), and hand thin Spanish sauce in a 
sauceboat. 

Apricots a la Conde. 

Stew your apricots in clarified sugar, place round a hot 
croustade of rice (see 8th of July), garnish with dried cherries 
and strips of angelica, and cover with a syrup made of apricot 
marmalade and Madeira. Serve very hot 



THE 366 BILLS 01' FARE. 195 



JULY 13. 



Potage aux haricots verts. 

Raie au beurre noir. 

Oreilles de veau farcies. 

Gigot r6ti. 

Haricots verts \ la poulette. 

Meringues k la cr^me. 



Clear soup with French beans. 

Skate, black butter sauce. 

Stuffed calf s ears. 

Roast leg of mutton. 

French beans h. la poulette. 

Meringues with cream. 



Stuffed oalfs ears. 

Singe, blanch, and drain the ears, scrape them thoroughly, 
and place in a stew-pan, covered with slices of bacon ; add 
some carrots, onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and slices of 
lemon ; moisten with equal quantities of stock and white wine, 
and simmer over a slow fire ; when done, drain the ears, and 
stuff them with forcemeat, egg and bread-crumb, fry, and serve 
with clear gravy. 

French beans a la poulette. 

Choose some young and tender French beans, remove all 
fibres by breaking ofi" the ends ; wash, and boil in boiling 
water ; when done, toss them in melted butter seasoned with 
chopped chives and parsley; stir in a little flour, a pinch of 
salt, and some stock, reduce the sauce, thicken with yolks of 
egg, flavour with a few drops of lemon, and serve. 



o 2 



196 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JULY 14. 

Consomm^ au tapioca. Clear soup with tapioca. 

Cote de bceuf brais^e. Braised ribs of beef. 

Cotelettes de lapereaux k la sauce Young rabbit cutlets with tomato 

tomates. sauce. 

Dindonneau au cresson. Turkey poult with watetcress. 

Pur^ de fbves aux croutons. Pur^e of broad beans with fried 

sippets of bread. 

Darioles li la pStissiere. Duchess cakes ^ la pdtissi^re. 



Totingr rabbit cutlets with tomato sauce. 

Cut the legs of your rabbits into two pieces, bone, and cut 
into the shape of cutlets, cover with forcemeat made of rabbit 
trimmings, bread-crumbs, and mixed herbs, stick some of the 
larger bones into them, so as to give the appearance of real 
cutlets ; warm in butter, flatten between two plates, and when 
cold, trim, t,gg over, and place in a saucepan with clarified 
butter ; when a good colour, drain, and serve, covered with 
thin tomato sauce. 

Duchess loaves a la pdtissiere. 

Take an ounce of melted butter, three tablespoonsful of 
powdered sugar, two tablespoonsful of flour, half the peel of 
a lemon very finely minced, dried orange flowers, four yolks 
of egg, a pinch of salt, and a tumblerful of cream ; stir w'ell 
together, and pour into small moulds; bake, and when done turn 
out of the moulds, and hand, sprinkled with powdered sugar. 

Capsictun butter. 

Pound some dried capsicums, and stir into butter ; it is 
generally used for sandwiches. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



197 



JULY 15. 



Puree de legumes au croiltons. 

Lottes k la prussienne. 

C6telettes de mouton jardiniere. 

Longe de veau r6tie. 

Aubergines k la proven9ale. 

Comp6te de p6ches. 



Pur^e of vegetables with toast. 

Eel pout a la pnissienne. 

Mutton cutlets ^ la jardiniere. 

Roast loin of veal. 

Egg plants h. la proven9ale. 

Comp6te of peaches. 



Eel pout a la pmBsienne. 

Warm a large slice of ham in a stew-pan, leave until the fat 
begins to melt; moisten with two tumblersful of champagne, a 
small cupful of brown thickening, the same quantity of strong 
gravy, a wine-glassful of olive oil, a bouquet of parsley, chives, 
laurel leaves, and a sliced onion ; boil for an hour, and pass 
through a tammy. Scrape and clean out your eel pout, leave 
the livers, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook in the sauce ; 
when done, remove the pout, reduce the sauce ; and pour over 
them. 

Boast loin of veal. 

Choose a fine loin, trim it, and skewet on to the spit, cover 
with buttered sheets of paper; roast for three hours, and serve 
with its own gravy. 

Compote of peaches. 

Dry your peaches in a cloth, and place in a preserving-pan, 
either whole or cut in half ; pour some thick syrup over them, 
cover with a sheet of white paper, and boil for a few minutes ; 
pour into a glass dish, and serve when cold. This compote 
can be flavoured with a few drops of elder-flower water, if pre- 
ferred. 



198 THE 366 BILLS Op FARE. 



JULY 16. 

Consomm^ aux croAtes grill^es. Clear soup with toast. 

Breme grill^e k la raaltre d'h6tel. Broiled bream ^ la maitre d'h6tel. 

Langue de boeuf k Titalienne. Ox-tongue a Titalienne. 

Canard roti. Roast duck. 

Concombres farcis. Stuffed cucumbers. 

Tarte aux fraises. Strawberry tart. 



Stuffed onctunberE. 

Cut your cucumbers into slices about two inches thick, do 
not use the ends ; peel, and remove all the pips, scald for ten 
minutes, dip into cold water, and drain ; line a tin or plated 
dish with slices of bacon cut very thin ; stuff the cucumber-rings 
with forcemeat (see 24th of July), wrap up in slices of bacon, 
which tie round with a string ; moisten with two tumblersful of 
stock, and bake for twenty minutes in a slow oven; when 
done, drain the cucumber, take off the slices of bacon, and 
dish up, covered with the following sauce : — Take a quarter of 
a pound of butter and an ounce of flour, brown and moisten 
with stock and two tablespoonsful of meat glaze, stir over the 
fire with a wooden spoon for twenty minutes, pass through a 
fine sieve, and flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice. 



Filbert butter. 

Pound twelve filberts and three ounces of butter thoroughly 
in a mortar, season with finely-chopped parsley, chives, and 
tarragon leaves, and use for sandwiches at supper, or as a 
small side-dish. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



199 



JULY 17. 



Bninoise aux pois. 

Bar sauce au fenouil. 

Gigot brais^. 

Pigeons r6tis. 

Pommes de terre \ la Macaire. 

Gdteau d'amandes. 



Brunoise soup with peas. 

Bass, fenuel sauce. 

Braised leg of mutton. 

Roast pigeons. 

Fried potatoes a la Macaire. 

Almond cake. 



Fried potatoes k la Uacaire. 

The following amusing anecdote will explain the origin of 
this dish. Louis Philippe and his family were breakfasting at 
the Tuileries one morning, and the Prince de Joinville was so 
absorbed giving an account of one of his voyages, that he 
refused a splendid dish of fried potatoes which was handed 
to him ; but his narrative finished, he turned round and asked 
for potatoes, but such justice had been done to the dish that 
not a crumb was left ; a footman ran to the kitchen for more, 
but there were none ready ; there was no time for hesitation ; 
the audacious chef threw the trimmings of the potatoes served 
at the royal table into a frying-pan with a large lump of butter, 
tossed the misshapen pieces until a golden colour, pleasing to 
the eye, and further adorned by a dash of finely-chopped 
parsley / the prince found the potatoes so good that he in- 
quired the name of the dish ; no one knows what answer he 
received, as being very deaf he repeated, " Ah, fried potatoes 
k la Macaire ; I find them excellent and hope they will often 
be served." The king and princes laughed so heartily that 
the tears rolled down their cheeks ; but the deed had been 
done, and potato trimmings cooked in a frying-pan had received 
their baptism. 



200 



' THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JULY 18. 



Potage julienne. 

Barbeau a I'^tuv^e. 

Boudin de lapin ^ la Richelieu. 

Quartier d'agneau roti. 

Navets ^ la demi-glace. 

Comp6te d'abricots verts. 



Julienne soup. 

Stewed barbel. 

Boudin of rabbit ^ la Richelieu. 

Roast forequarter of lamb. 

Glazed turnips. 
Comp6te of green apricots. 



Stewed barbel. 



Scale, clean out a barbel, boil in red wine, and season with 
salt, black pepper, a large lump of butter, a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, and two heads of cloves ; when done, dish up the 
barbel, thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter, pass 
through a tammy, and pour over the fish. 



Boudin of rabbit a la Bichelieu. 

Cut all the meat off a rabbit, pound, pass through a 
tammy, and stir into some baked potatoes, which have been 
mashed ; season with salt, pepper, and a little chopped fried 
onion, and pound well together. Make some forcemeat with 
breasts of chicken, pickled tongue, truffles, and thin German 
sauce j roll into the shape of a pudding, cover with a thick 
layer of the pounded rabbit, and lay in a stew-pan on a buttered 
drainer, poach it in hot stock, be careful not to let it boil \ 
when done, drain and leave until cold ; egg and bread-crumb, 
broil over hot cinders ; when a good colour, dish up, and cover 
with either brown or white Italian sauce, or better still with 
perigueux sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 201 



JULY 19. 

Pot-au-feu. Pot-au-feu, or uncleared stock. 

Pi^ce de bceuf bouilli, gamie a la Boiled beef ^ la flamande. 
flamande. 

Raie ^ la sauce blanche. Skate with white sauce. 

Galantine de lapereaux. Galantine of young rabbits. 

Macaroni au gratin. Maccaroni with bread-crumbs. 

Mousse aux fraises. Whipped strawberries and creanj. 



Galantine of yotingr rabbits. 

Bone your rabbits, leave the heads, cut off some of the spare 
meat without spoiling the shape of the rabbits, mince it up 
with the same quantity of bacon ; season with salt, pepper, 
pounded herbs, and finely-chopped truffles; lay the rabbits 
on a cloth, spread a layer of the forcemeat on them, slices of 
ham, bacon, and truffles; then a second layer of forcemeat and 
slices of ham; when the rabbits are full, sew them up to 
their original shape, and place in a stew-pan, lined with slices 
of bacon, surround them with carrots, onions, a bouquet of 
parsley, laurel leaves, thyme, salt, and coarse black pepper ; 
moisten with equal quantities of stock and white wine, cover 
the whole with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper ; 
cook over a slow fire ; when done, take the stew-pan off the 
fire, and leave the rabbits in it for half an hour ; remove the 
paper and bacon, dish up the rabbits ; pass the sauce through 
a tammy, skim off all grease, clarify it with whipped white of 
egg, reduce, and pour over the rabbits, and leave until a jelly, 
or pour into a dish, and when set, cut into squares, with which 
garnish the rabbits. 

Kluskis or meat cakes. 

Mince two pounds of fresh pork very fine, add some bread- 
crumb' soaked in wine, a little grated lemon peel, salt and 
pepper ; roll into balls, flatten them, and fry in butter until a 
good colour. 



202 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JULY 20. 



MENU EN MAIGRE. 

Potage \ la Monaco. 

Colin frit. 

Casserole maigre de laitance. 

Homard en r^moulade. 

Concombres ^ la creme. 

Tarte aux cerises. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Soup k la Monaco. 

Fried whiting pollock. 

Stewed roe for fast day. 

Lobster, r^moulade sauce. 

Cucumbers with bechamel sauce. 

Cherry tart. 



Royal sticks. 

This name is given to a very finely-chopped forcemeat made 
of either fowl or game, with minced herbs, bread-crumbs, salt, 
pepper, and cream ; roll into very thin round sticks, and fry in 
butter; they are either used to garnish a joint of beef, or to be 
served as a small side-dish, garnished with fried celery. 

Cuctunbers with bechamel sauce. 

Peel, and remove jill pips from your cucumbers, cut into 
slices, and blanch in salt and water, drain, dip into cold water, 
dry in a cloth, and warm in a little cream, flour, and butter, or 
in bechamel sauce for fast day ; do not let the sauce boil, and 
serve as soon as cooked. 



Compote of grreen apricots. 

Peel and soak some green apricots in cold water for half an 
hour ; cook them in warm water with a few sorrel leaves, place 
the lid on the saucepan, and leave on the fire until the fruit is 
a good green colour, drain, and when cold, cover them with 
sugar, cook in a preserving-pan, and just before taking off the 
fire add two tablespoonsful of essence of spinach. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 203 



JULY 21. 

Potage aux pates d'ltalie. Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Anguille aux montants de laitues. Fricassee of eel with lettuces. 

Croquettes de palais de boeuf. Ox palate croquettes. 

Poulets bard^s rotis. Roast fowls. 

^I^pinards ^ la creme. Spinach with cream. 

Beignets d'abricots. Apricot fritters. 



Fricassee of eel with lettuces. 

Cut up an eel into large pieces, and cook the same as 
fricassee of fowl (see 23rd of March). Boil some finp lettuces 
in salt and water, add a lump of butter, drain, and place in 
the stew-pan with the eel, flavour with lemon-juice and black 
pepper, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, and serve garnished 
with fried sippets of bread. 



Oz palate croQuettes. 

Boil the ox palates in salt and water, split them in half, and 
simmer for half an hour, over a slow fire, in strong stock, 
seasoned with a head of garlic, two cloves, thyme, laurel leaves, 
salt, and pepper ; drain, and when cold, spread a teaspoonful of 
forcemeat on each piece, and roll into the shape of a cork. 
Stir a tablespoonful of olive oil, a tumblerful of white wine, 
and a little salt into some batter until nearly liquid, dip the 
palates in it, fry, and serve, garnished with parsley. 



204 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JULY 22. 

Potage printanier aux quenelles. Spring soup with quenelles. 

Poule au riz. Chicken and rice. 

Paupiettes de merlans. Baked fillets of whiting. 

Jambon au naturel. Boiled ham. 

Salade de legumes. Vegetable salad. 

Plum pouding excellent. Excellent plum pudding.] 



Braised leg: of mutton. ' 

Bone the leg, lard it with highly-seasoned bacon, tie it up to 
its original shape, and place in a braising-pan, cover it with slices 
of bacon, season with carrots and a bouquet of mixed herbs, 
moisten with water, and cook over a moderate fire for three 
hours ; when done, cut the string, and dish up the mutton, 
garnish it with the carrots, reduce the sauce, and pour over it. 

Excellent pltun pudding:. 

Take a pound of chopped suet, a pound of currants, a 
pound of stoned raisins, eight yolks of eggs, four whites, half a 
pound of bread-crumbs, a pound of flour, a pound of sugar, 
half a grated nutmeg, a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, 
a pinch of salt, half a tumblerful of rum or brandy, some thin 
slices of citron, mixed peel, and grated lemon peel. Beat the 
eggs, stir them into a tumblerful of milk, and add the flour 
and the other ingredients to it ; if too dry, moisten with milk ; 
tie up in a pudding-bowl, and boil for five or six hours. Serve 
with either Madeira or rum sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 205 



JULY 23. 

Riz a la cr^me lie. Pur^e of rice. 

Vives grill^es sauce r^moulade. Broiled weaver, r^moulade sauce. 

Cotelettes de pigeons aux pelits Pigeon cutlets with green peas, 
pois. 

Rosbif roti. Roast beef. 

Pommes de terre au beurre. Potatoes with butter. 

Gsiteau fourr^ d*abricots. Apricot puffs. 



Pifireon outlets with grreen peas. 

Draw and singe six young pigeons, cut them in half, remove 
all bones except the legs, sprinkle with salt, and warm in 
butter, drain, and press between two plates until quite flat and 
cold ; trim them to the shape of cutlets, stuff them with force- 
meat made of bread-crumbs, butter, and mixed herbs ; egg and 
bread-crumb, and broil over a moderate fire, moisten with 
melted butter when you turn the cutlets ; when done, place 
round an entree dish, and fill the centre with green peas. 

Poor man's sauce. 

Take equal quantities of water and vinegar, flavour with 
lemon-juice, chopped eschalots, salt a^d pepper ; do not let 
the sauce boil, but cook over a moderate fire. This is an 
excellent sauce in which to warm up a cold leg of mutton. 

Peaches a la Conde. 

Cook the same as apricots \ la Cond^ (see 12th of July). 



2o6 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JULY 24. 

Potage puree de pois verts. Puree of green peas. 

6paule de mouton en ballon. Braised shoulder of mutton. 

Lapereaux sautes aux fines herbes. Stewed young rabbits with mixed 

herbs. 

Tanches frites. Fried tench. 

Omelette ^ la jardiniere. Omelet ^ la jardiniere. 

Peches k la Cond^. Peaches 4 la Conde. 



Stewed youngr rabbits with mixed herbs. 

Warm some chopped parsley, eschalots, and mushrooms in 
butter; when done, add two young rabbits cut into joints; 
season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and a bouquet of 
mixed herbs ; toss over a quick fire, moisten with a tumblerful 
of white wine, leave on the fire for twenty minutes with hot 
coals on the lid of the stew-pan ; sprinkle with flour, stir in a 
lump of meat glaze, the juice of a lemon, and some butter. 
Dish up in a pyramid. 

Omelet i, la jardiniere. 

Stew some chopped mushrooms, carrots, turnips, French 
beans, herbs, young green peas, and broad beansin stock ; when 
done, stir in a little brown thickening ; take half the vegetables, 
beat together with twelve eggs, and cook your omelet in the 
usual manner. Serve, covered with the remainder of the 
stewed vegetables. 

Forcemeat for ououmbers. 

Chop up a pound of fillet of veal, without gristle or fat, with 
a pound of fat from the calf s kidney ; season with salt, pepper, 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; moisten with a wine-glassful 
of milk, and pound until quite smooth, when it will be ready 
for use. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 207 



JULY 25. 

Potage ^ la reine. Soup ^ la reine. 

Soles bouillies sauce au persil. Boiled soles with parsley. 

Filet de bceuf sauce mad^re. Fillet of beef, Madeira sauce. 

Galantine de volaille. Galantine of fowl. 

Haricots verts sautes. French beans with butter. 

Meringues aux fraises. Strawberry meringues. 



Soup a la reine. 

There are two ways of preparing this soup. One is, to boil 
a fowl in stock with a bouquet of mixed herbs, onions, carrots, 
salt and pepper ; when done, leave the fowl until cold, skin it, 
cut off all meat, and pound with a lump of bread-crumb which 
has been soaked in the stock, pass through a tammy ; and 
warm in the liquor of the fowl, after squeezing it through a cloth; 
do not let it boil. Pound some blanched almonds, stir them 
into a little cream, pass through a fine cloth, and add to the 
soup just before serving ; place some small chicken quenelles 
about the size of peas in the soup- tureen, and pour the soup 
over them. Another way of preparing this soup is to pound 
up the meat and bones of a cold roast chicken, after removing 
the skin and fat, simmer the pounded meat in either veal or 
chicken broth, stir in some bread-crumbs soaked in stock, pass 
through a tammy, if too thick add a little veal broth ; flavour 
with almond cream as above, and garnish with quenelles of 
chicken. 

Lemon sauce. 

• 

Peel a lemon, remove all the pips, and slice it ; chop up 
into dice, and warm in a saucepan with the minced liver of a 
chicken, which has been blanched, and some butter ; when 
done, serve in a sauceboat. 



2o8 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



JULY 26. 

Puree d'artichauts aux croutons. Pur^e of artichokes with fried bread. 

Esturgeon en fricandeau. Fricandeau of sturgeon. 

Chateaubriand garni de pommes Broiled fillets of beef ^ la Ch^teau- 

soufflte. briand with potatoes. 

Pdt^ de foie gras. Pite de foie gras. 

Buisson d'teevisses. Crayfish. 

Beignets aux confitures. Jam fritters. 



Fricandeau of sturfireon. 
Cut up a piece of sturgeon into slices about five inches thick, 
skin them, lard with fine fillets of bacon, sprinkle with flour, 
and lay in a stew-pan on melted bacon, with the larded sides 
downwards; when brown take off the fire. Chop up some 
mushrooms, and lay them in a tin dish, moisten with essence 
of ham, lay the fillets of sturgeon on this, with the larded sides 
upwards, cover the dish, and simmer in a very slow oven for 
an hour. 

Scalloped quenelles of carp, eel pout, cod, or wlxitiner. 

Prepare the same as scalloped mussels (see 2 2nd of October), 
with the following exceptions : — ^With scalloped whiting use a 
little fresh herring ; with cod stir in some double cream ; and 
with carp add some chopped eel. A great improvement to 
this dish is, if possible, to add some pounded truffles, which 
have been boiled in stock. 

Jam. fritters. 

Cut some small sponge cakes in half, spread both halves with 
jam, moisten the edges with water, stick them firmly together ; 
add three whipped whites of t.g% to some batter, made with 
white wine, dip the cakes into it, and fry ; when done, drain, 
place them on a board, sprinkle with icing sugar, and glaze in 
the oven, or with the salamander. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 209 



JULY 27. 

Potage croAte au pot. Clear soup with gravy crusts. 

Boeuf bouilli sauce ^ la bourgeoise. Boiled beef, sauce ^ la bourgeoise. 

Lapins en gibelotte. Stewed rabbits and onions. 

Poularde r6tie. Roast fowl. 

Friture de choux-fleurs. Cauliflower fritters. 

Bavarois aux framboises. Bavarian strawberry cream. 



Sauce a la bourfireoise. 

Take a large tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, 
chervil, and tarragon leaves, stir into a teacupful of stock, add 
a dessert-spoonful of meat glaze, two teaspoonsful of French 
mustard, the same quantity of powdered sugar, and, just before 
serving, flavour with lemon-juice and a little white pepper, 
This sauce is generally handed with boiled beef or boiled fowl. 



stewed rabbits and onions. 

Soak half a pound of bacon in water for two hours ; cut it up 
into dice, and brown in butter ; add two rabbits cut into joints ; 
at the end of five minutes stir in two tablespoonsful of flour, 
season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, and an onion stuck with two cloves ; moisten with a 
bottle of white wine, and cook over a slow fire for three- 
quarters of an hour ; whilst the rabbit is cooking, brown about 
twenty small young onions, take a few spoonsful of the liquor 
in which the rabbits are cooking, warm the onions in it, and 
add a' basket of button mushrooms, and a small lump of sugar. 
When the rabbits are cooked, dish them up, pass the sauce 
through a tammy, skim off all grease, reduce, and pour over 
them. Place the onions and mushrooms round the dish. 



2IO THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



JULY 28. 

Consomm^ aux pommes de terre. Clear soup with potatoes. 

Saumon sauce crevettes. Salmon, shrimp sauce. 

Poitrines d'agneau a la marechale. Lambs' breasts ^ la mar^chale. 

Pintades roties. Roast guinea-fowl. 

Haricots blancs ^ la maitre d'hotel. Haricot beans a la ma!tre d'h6tel. 

CEufs ^ la neige. Poached whites of eggs. 



Lambs' breasts a la Marechale. 

Braise two breasts of lamb (see 28th of May) ; when cooked, 
drain, and press between two dishes until cold ; trim them 
into the shape of a heart, leave one bone, so as to give the 
appearance of a large cutlet, dip into German sauce, bread- 
crumb, plunge into beaten yolks of egg mixed with melted 
butter, bread-crumb a second time, broil for a minute, and 
serve with clear gravy. 

Tendons of veal with white sauce. 

Line a stew-pan with slices of veal and bacon ; add the 
tendons, which have been blanched, drained, and trimmed ; 
season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, carrots, onions, and 
slices of lemon; moisten with either clear soup or stock, and cook 
over a moderate fire ; when done put the tendons in a clean 
stew-pan, pass the sauce through a tammy, thicken it with 
yolks of egg, pour over the tendons, and serve when hot. 

« 

Fried dabs. 

Scrape your fish, cut off the fins and backbones, split them 
down the back, sprinkle with salt and pepper, squeeze some 
lemon-juice over them, and fry in butter. Dish up on a napkin. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 211 



JULY 29. 

Potage de sagou k la puree de Sago soup with puree of carrots, 
carottes. 

Limandes frites. Fried dabs. 

Poulets aux hultres et aux truffes. Fowls stuffed with oysters and 

truffles. 

Gigot de mouton r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Pommes de terre saut6es. Fried potatoes. 

Flan de polres ^ la Madeleine. Pear tart a la Madeleine. 



Fowls stuifed with oysters and truf9.es. 

Roast two fowls, and wrap them up in buttered sheets of 
paper, so that they may not brown ; when done, stuff them with 
chopped truffles, minced oysters, parsley, and chives, well 
mixed with butter. Line a stew-pan with butter, sliced truffles, 
chopped herbs, blanched and trimmed oysters, and a second 
layer of sliced truffles and mixed herbs; moisten with olive oil, 
add the fowls, and simmer over a very slow fire for ten minutes ; 
dish up the fowls with the truffles and oysters, add half a 
tumblerful of stock, and the same quantity of white wine to the 
sauce, boil it, skim off all grease, flavour with lemon-juice, and 
pour over the fowls. 

Haricot beans a la maitre d'hotel. 

Soak your beans for twenty-four hours, if not fresh ones, 
blanch and boil in boiling salt and water ; drain, and when 
cold, warm them in a saucepan with butter seasoned with 
chopped parsley, chives, salt and pepper ; thicken the sauce 
with yolks of egg mixed With stock or some of the liquor in 
which the beans were boiled, and flavour with either a few 
drops of vinegar or lemon-juice. 



p 2 



212 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



b 



JULY 30. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Bouillabaisse. Bouillabaisse. 

Poisson. Boiled or fried fish. 
Croquettes de riz aux champignons. Croquettes of rice with mushrooms. 

Choux farcis 4 la russe. Stuffed cabbage 4 la russe. 

Carpes frites. Fried carp. 

Kluskis au fromage 4 la creme. Kluskis of cream cheese. 



Bouillabalse. 

Wash, clean, and cut up some whiting, gurnet, red mullet, 
and a small live crayfish. Warm a tumblerful of olive oil, two 
tablespoonsful of finely-chopped onions, a head of garlic, and 
a laurel leaf in a large, shallow fish-pan ; as soon as the onion 
begins to brown, add the pieces of fish, season with a little 
salt, slices of lemon, some fresh or preserved tomatoes, a pinch 
of powdered saffron, and a tumblerful of white wine; pour in 
sufficient water to cover the fish, and cook over a very quick 
fire for fifteen minutes ; throw in a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, boil for one minute, and take the fish-pan off" the fire ; 
remove the garlic, lemon, and laurel leaf; lay some slices of 
bread, half an inch thick, in a deep dish, pour the fish liquor 
over them ; when thoroughly soaked, place the best pieces 
of fish in the dish, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 213 



JULY 31. 

Potage aux pdtes d'ltalie avec Clear soup with Italian paste and 

Parmesan. Parmesan cheese. 

Moules k la mariniere. Mussels ^ la marini^re. 

Filet saut^ mad^re. Fillet of beef with Madeira sauce. 

Dindonneau r6ti. Roast turkey poult. 

Carottes ^ la m^nagere. Carrots \ la m^nagere. 

Flan de prunes. Plum tart. 



ICussels k la mariniere. 

Take the mussels out of their shells, and toss them in a 
saucepan with a large lump of butter and finely-chopped 
parsley, chives, and garlic ; stir in a little black pepper and 
bread-crumbs. Serve very hot. 

CalTs ears fried in batter. 

Blanch the ears in boiling water, boil them in veal stock, 
leave in the saucepan until cold, drain, and cut up into long 
strips ; soak them in vinegar, seasoned with salt and black 
pepper ; dry in a cloth, dip into batter, and fry until a golden 
colour ; drain, and serve, garnished with fried parsley. 

Carrots & la menagrere. 

Slice your carrots, and boil in stock and white wine, seasoned 
with coarse black pepper, grated nutmeg, and a bouquet of 
mixed herbs ; when done, dish up the carrots, thicken the 
sauce with butter and a little flour, and pour over the vege- 
table. 

Gascony butter. 

Boil a dozen fine heads of garlic in water, drain, and pound 
them in a mortar with half a pound of butter, season with 
salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little cayenne pepper. 



214 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



AUGUST I. 

Puree de pois verts. Puree of green peas. 

Poule aux riz. Boiled fowl and rice. 

Kscalopes de saumon sauce mous- Scallops of salmon, mousquetaire 

quetaire. sauce. 

Boeuf ^ I'ecarlate. Boiled salt beef. 

Artichauts 4 la sauce blanche. Artichokes with white sauce. 

Crepes. Pancakes. 



Mousquetaire sauce. 

Pound a small eschalot, a few chervil, tarragon, and cress 
leaves in a mortar ; add a dessert-spoonful of meat glaze, salt, 
pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of 
mustard ; pass through a tammy, moisten with two tablespoons- 
ful of olive oil and a teaspoonfiil of tarragon vinegar, and 
serve. 

Kluskis of cream cheese. 

See loth of April. 

Pancakes. 

Make a batter with flour, milk, yolks of egg, a pinch of salt, 
and a little brandy ; melt some butter in a frying-pan, pour in 
a large tablespoonful of the batter at a time ; when done on 
one side, turn, sprinkle with powdered sugar, fold up in the 
shape of a small omelet, and serve. 



I 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



215 



AUGUST 2. 



Pilau de riz au gras. . 

Crouquettes de nouilles. 

Gigot de mouton 4 la polonaise. 

Canard sauvage r6ti. 

Ecrevisses ^ la bordelaise. 

Abricots \ la Conde. 



Pilau of rice. 

Croquettes of German paste. 

Leg of mutton ^ la polonaise. 

Roast wild duck. 

Crayfish ^ la bordelaise. 

Apricots ^ la Cond^. 



Pilau of rice. 

Wash a quart of rice, and cook in six pints of strong stock, 
fix on the h'd of the saucepan very tight ; as soon as the rice 
begins to boil, add a teaspoonflil of powdered saffron, mixed in 
a little stock ; replace the cover, and boil until the rice has 
absorbed all the stock. It generally takes about an hour and 
a quarter to cook this dish. 

Legr of mutton k la Polonaise. 

Braise a very tender leg of mutton until three quarters cooked, 
drain it, and cut into thick slices without separating them from 
the bone. Spread a layer of the following stuffing between each 
slice : — Take a large lump of butter, chopped parsley, chives, 
eschalots, powdered ginger, salt, pepper, and bread-crumbs, 
stir well together. Place the mutton in a stew-pan, moisten 
with some of the liquor in which it was braised, and a wine- 
glassful of champagne ; simmer for half an hour, with hot coals 
on the lid of the stew-pan ; when done, dish up the leg, clear 
the sauce of all grease, flavour with orange-juice, and pour over 
the mutton. 

ft 

German paste croquettes. 

Roll some German paste (see 28th of October) into small 
round balls, bread-crumb, and fry in melted butter. 



2i6 THE 366 BILLS OB BARE, 



AUGUST 3. 

Potage cr^me de chicor^e ^ la White chicory soup \ la Colbert. 
Colbert. 

Raie au beurre noir. Skate with black butter. 

Ris de veau en fricandeau. Fricandeau of sweet-breads. 

Poulets rotis. Roast fowls. 

Pommes de terre au lard. Potatoes and bacon. 

Flan d'amandes vertes ^ la d'Escars. Green almond tart ^ la d'Escars. 



WMte chicory soup a la Colbert. 

Blanch the chicory, warm it in butter, moisten with veal 
stock and cream, thicken with yolks of egg, and pour into the 
soup-tureen on poached eggs. 

Potatoes and bacon. 

Brown some bacon cut into dice in butter, stir in a little 
flour, and moisten with either stock or water; when brown, 
season with salt, pepper, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; boil 
for a few minutes, add some raw sliced potatoes ; when done, 
skim off all grease, and serve. 

Green almond tart a la d'Escars. 

Pound half a pound of either green almonds or filberts in 
a mortar, with a tablespoonful of candied orange flowers, suffi- 
cient sugar to sweeten the nuts, and a pinch of salt ; boil a 
pint of cream ; when cold, add to the almonds, with four boiled 
yolks of egg ; stir until a thick cream, and pour into an open 
tart case of short paste, which has been baked, as the cream 
must not be cooked ; if the weather is hot, it is advisable to 
place the cream in a refrigerator for an hour. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 217 



AUGUST 4. 

Potage consomme aux laitues. Clear soup with lettuce. 

Brochet au bleu remoulade ^ la Pickled pike, remoulade sauce h. la 

cosaque. cosaque. 

Poularde en crofite. Braised pullet with white sauce. 

Lapereaux rotis. Roast young rabbits. 

Petits pois ^ I'anglaise. Green peas ^ Tanglaise. 

Mousse aux framboises. "Whipped raspberries and cream. 



Bexnoulade sauce a la cosaqLue. 

Take two hard-boiled yolks of egg, a blanched eschalot, and 
a handful of chopped chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, and chive 
leaves, pound in a mortar; season with salt, pepper, grated 
nutmeg, a teaspoonful of mustard, and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper ; stir in two tablespoonsful of olive oil, and a teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar ; pass through a tammy, and serve. 

Braised pullet with white sauce. 

Lard tne pullet with bacon and ham, braise in milk with 
carrots and onions, and leave until cold. Take a lump of 
butter, a little flour, salt, pepper, two yolks of egg, and a tea- 
cupful of milk ; stir over the fire until thick, and add the 
pullet sprinkled with bread-crumbs ; place the stew-pan in the 
oven until the pullet is browned, and dish it up garnished 
with thick poivrade sauce. 

Green peas a I'Angrlaise. 

Boil the green peas in boiling salt and water ; when cooked, 
drain and pour them into a vegetable dish over a large lump 
of fresh butter. Sprinkle the peas with a little finely-chopped 
parsley, and serve very hot. Hand powdered sugar separately. 



2i8 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



AUGUST 5. 

Potage julienne. Julienne soup. 

Filets de grondins sauce tomates. Fillet of gurnet with tomato sauce. 

Queues de mouton au riz. Fried sheep's tails and rice. 

Albrans r6tis. Roast young wild duck, 

itpinards a Tancienne mode. Old-fashioned stewed spinach. 

Macedoine de fruits. Macedoine of fruit. 



Fillets of sramet with tomato sauce. 

Take some fillets of gurnet, cut them up into scallops half 
an inch thick, and trim them all to the same size ; toss over 
a quick fire in a saucepan, with butter, salt, and white pepper ; 
when done, drain, and place round a dish ; fill the centre with 
tomato sauce, and ser\'e. 

Fried sheep's tails and rice. 

Scald and blanch the tails, cut off the ends, tie two or three 
together in a bunch and braise them (see 28th of May). Boil 
some rice in strong stock, and leave on the fire until it has 
absorbed all the liquor; when both tails and rice are cold, 
spread a thick layer of the latter over the tails ; dip into t^ 
and bread-crumbs, fry in boiling lard, and serve, garnished 
with fried parsley. 



^ 



THk 366 BILLS OF FARE, 219 



AUGUST 6. 

Puree de potiron. Puree of leeks. 

Cote de boeuf braisee garnie 13 raised ribs of beef and stuffed 

d'oignons farcis. onions. 

Lottes ^ ritalienne. Eel pout 4 I'italienne. 

Poularde r6tie. Roast pullet. 

Haricots panaches sautes. French beans and haricots a Ta 

maltre d*h6tel. 

Creme fouett^e aux framboises. Whipped raspberries and cream. 



Puree of leeks. 

Peel your leeks, cut them up into small pieces, boil in boil- 
ing salt and water ; when done, pass through a tammy ; warm 
the pur^e in a saucepan with some butter, a tumblerful of 
cream, a little sugar, and . a pinch of flour ; reduce, thicken 
with yolks of t^^ and serve. 

Eel pout d ritalienne. 

Fry the eel pout and dish them up, covered with the 
following sauce : — Take a small parsnip, a young carrot, two 
sliced onions, half a head of garlic, a laurel leaf, and three 
heads of cloves ; warm in either olive oil or butter ; moisten 
with two tumblersful of champagne and a little stock ; simmer 
for an hour, pass through a tammy, skim off all grease, and 
reduce the sauce if too thin ; season with a pounded anchovy, 
some chopped capers, salt, and coarse black pepper. 

Bain-marie. 

Whenever a dish is ordered to be cooked in a bain-marie, 
it means putting the ingredients in a china pot and placing it 
on the fire in a large saucepan filled with boiling water. 



220 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



AUGUST 7. 

Potage <le riz au gras. Brunoise soup with rice. 

Melon. Melon. 

Matelote d'anguille. Stewed eel. 

Ramereaux marines et frits. Broiled young ring-doves. 

Cuissot de veau roti. Roast haunch of veal. 

Laitues ^ la cr^me. Lettuces with cream. 

Crodte aux fruits. Fried slices of bread ^ la nor- 

mande. 



Helen. 



See 2 1 St of June. 



Broiled younfir ringr-doves. 

Pluck, draw, and singe the doves, truss, and cut them in 
half, beat until flat, and soak for two hours in olive oil, seasoned 
with salt, mixed spice, and chopped parsley, chives, and mush- 
rooms ; dry in a cloth, bread-crumb, and broil them ; take 
some of the olive oil in which they were soaked, stir in a lump 
of butter, a little flour, chopped capers and eschalots, salt, 
pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; warm in a saucepan 
until thick, flavour with vinegar or lemon-juice, and hand with 
the ring-doves. 

Old-fashioned stewed spinach. 

Cook the spinach in a saucepan with butter, salt, and grated 
nutmeg ; add a little butter and flour, sugar, and cream ; when 
done, serve with hot strips of light paste. 



\ 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 221 



AUGUST 8. 

Potage aux ceufs poch^s. Clear soup with poached eggs. 

Raie aux fines herbes. Skate with mixed herbs. 

Poulets en fricassee. Fricassee of fowl. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

* Salsifis fiits. Fried salsifis. 

T^ourte aux abricots. Apricot tart. 



Skate with mixed herbs. 

Fillet and skin a fine skate, dry between two cloths, and 
cook in a saucepan with a pint of milk, a lump of butter, a 
little flour, two slices of lemon, salt, pepper, and mixed herbs ; 
when three quarters done, remove the fillets, drain them, and 
bake in the oven until a good colour; dish up with either 
piquante sauce or mixed herb sauce. 

Fried lalsifis. 

Boil your salsifis in water, cut them up into pieces the 
length of your little finger, dip into boiling water, drain, and 
soak for an hour in vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper ; dip 
into batter, fry in butter, and serve. 

Apricot tart a la bonne femme. 

Peel, stone, and cut your apricots in half, boil in sugar and 
water ; when done, leave until cold. Line a shallow tart mould 
with light paste, fill it with the apricots, garnish with dried 
cherries, cover with paste, egg it over with beaten yolks of Qg'g^ 
and bake. 



222 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



AUGUST 9. 



Consomme aiix lazagnes. 

Goujons frits. 

Langue de boeuf h. la sauce tomates. 

Galantine de dinde. 

Mac^doine de l^^umes en salade. 

Peches ^ la Richelieu. 



Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Fried gudgeon. 
Ox-tongue with tomato sauce. 

Galantine of turkey-hen. 

Mixed vegetable salad. 

Peaches k la Richelieu. 



Galantine of turkey-hen. 

Draw and singe the turkey, cut it open down the back, bone 
it, and remove the leg, wing bones, and neck by drawing 
them inwards, be careful not to cut any part of the skin ; cut 
all the flesh of the turkey into fillets, and keep until required. 
Take three pounds of chump of veal, a pound and a half of bacon, 
chopped herbs, spice, salt and pepper, pound in a mortar until 
quite smooth. Spread a layer two inches thick of this forcemeat 
on the turkey skin, after which place alternate layers of turkey 
fillets, slices of ham, pickled pig's tongue, gherkins, pistachio 
nuts, and truffles, until when sewn together the skin is quite fiiU ; 
cover with slices of bacon, tie it up very tight in a cloth, so 
that the skin may not give way, and braise (see 28th of May) ; 
when done, leave in the cloth until cold; pass the sauce in 
which it was braised through a fine sieve, clarify it with the white 
of an egg, and leave in a cool place until set to a jelly ; cut 
into fancy shapes, and garnish the galantine with them. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 223 



AUGUST 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. DILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Pilau de riz au maigre. Pilau of rice for fast day. 

Mulct grille ^ la maitre d'hotel. Boiled mullet h. la maJtre d'h6tel. 

Haricot de macreuse. Haricot of black diver. 

Carpes frites. Fried carp. 

Pommes de terre i la sauce blanche. Potatoes with white sauce. 

Omelette souffl^e. Omelet souffle. 



PilatL of rice for fast day. 

This is a daily dish amongst the Turks. Boil your rice in 
salt and water, fix on the lid of the saucepan very tight, and 
leave on the fire until the rice has absorbed all the water; 
when done, tnake a well in the centre of the rice with a 
wooden spoon, add a large lump of fresh butter, cover it over 
with rice, and, when dissolved, serve. 

Cornflour rameauins. 

Boil some cornflour in milk ; when nearly done, stir in a 
little butter, grated Parmesan cheese, pepper, a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, and a small lump of sugar; take a dessert- 
spoonful at a time of this paste, place on a wooden slab, 
garnish the centre of each ramequin with a small lump of 
Parmesan cheese, and cover over with a little of the corn- 
flour paste; when cold, trim with a round tin cutter, dip 
into beaten yolks of egg, and fry. Dish up on a napkin. 



224 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



AUGUST II. 

Potage ^ la Conti. Soup a la Conti. 

Anguille ^ la tartare. Eel with tartare sauce. 

Poulet ^ la hambourgeoise. Roast chicken k la hambourgeoise. 

Gigot d'agneau r6ti. Roast leg of lamb. 

CEufs au fromage. Baked eggs and cheese. 

Tartes aux cerises. Cherry tartlets. 



Boast chicken a la Hamboursreoise. 

Stuff a young chicken with a handful of coarsely-chopped 
parsley mixed with butter, salt and pepper ; roast it, mthout 
covering with slices of bacon, and dish up with its own gravy. 
It generally takes about twenty-five minutes to cook a young 
chicken in this manner. The stuffing is a great unprovement, 
as young poultry often tastes of the food with which it has 
been fattened. 

Baked effgB and cheese. 

Take twelve eggs, whip the whites of six of them, stir into 
a little flour, hot melted butter, salt and pepper, and pass 
through a fine sieve. Line the bottom of a tin or plated dish 
with slices of Gruy^re cheese, and thin slices of bread, spread 
with plenty of butter, pour the eggs over them, and bake; 
brown with a salamander before serving. 

Potatoes with white sauce. 

Boil your potatoes in salt and water ; when done, peel and 
slice them as quick as possible, cover with white sauce made 
with potato flour, and serve very hot. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



225 



AUGUST 12. 



Potage au pain. 

Pi^ce de boeuf sauce raifort. 

Filets de lapereaux aux con- 

combres. 

Canards r6tis. 

£pinards au jus. 

Comp6te de prunes reine-Claude. 



Bread soup. 

Boiled beef, raifort sauce. 

Fillets of young rabbit with 

cucumer. 

Roast ducks. 

Stewed spinach. 

Compote of greengages. 



Fillets of younff rabbit with cuctimber. 

Take two large cucumbers, peel and cut them into very 
thin slices, soak in a deep dish, for two hours, in vinegar and 
salt, turn them occasionally ; press between two plates so as 
to squeeze out all juice, and warm them in butter, seasoned 
with a bouquet of parsley, chives, thyme, and a laurel leaf; 
stir over the fire until a golden colour; add a little flour, 
moisten with two tumblersful of stock, simmer for half an hour, 
and see that the sauce thickens. Roast your rabbits ; when 
done, cut off the fillets, warm them in the cucumber, do not 
let the sauce boil, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve. 



Compote of grreengraeres. 

Prick the greengages with a fork, dip into cold water, drain, 
and boil in syrup ; when done, pour into a glass dish, and 
serve when cold. 



Q 



226 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



AUGUST 13. 



Potage Crecy. 

Matelote de carpe et d'anguille. 

Poupiettes de veau. 

Pintade rotie. 

Haricots verts au beurre noir. 

Biscuit de Savoie. 



Crecy soup. 

Stewed carp and eel. 

Stuff(sd fillets of veal. 

Roast guinea-fowl. 

French beans with black butter. 

Savoy cake. 



Staffed fillets of veal. 

Cut up a fillet of veal into slices an inch thick and six 
inches long, beat until quite flat ; spread a layer of meat force- 
meat on them ; roll, and tie round with a string ; place in a 
stew-pan lined with slices of bacon, season with salt and 
pepper, moisten with half a tumblerful of white wine, and the 
same quantity of stock, and cook over a slow fire ; when done, 
dish up in a pyramid, pass the sauce through a tammy, clear 
off all grease, and pour over the fillets. 



Savoy, or sponge cake. 

Break fifteen eggs, keep the yolks separate from the whites, 
stir a pound of powdered sugar into the yolks, and flavour 
with either grated lemon peel or vanilla, beat until frothy ; 
whip the whites to a thick cream, add to the yolks, and stir in 
a pound of flour ; pour into a buttered mould, or into small 
cases, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and bake; when done, 
glaze the cake with whipped whites of ^gg^ flavoured with 
lemon-juice and sugar, and serve when cold. 



THE 366 BILLS OF ^ A RE. 227 



AUGUST 14. 

Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

Gigot braise. Braised leg of mutton. 

Laitues farcies. Stuffed lettuces. 

Langouste sauce mayonnaise. Sea crayfish with mayonnaise sauce. 

Pommes de terre saut^es. Fried potatoes. 

Mac^oine de fruits en gelee. Macedoine of fruit in jelly. 



Stuffed lettuces. 

Wash, trim, blanch, and drain your lettuces, remove the 
centre leaves very carefully, fill with forcemeat of fowl and 
truffles (see i8th of December), or with quenelle stuffing; tie 
the lettuces round with string, and cook in a stew-pan lined 
with slices of veal and bacon ; season* with carrots, onions, 
and a bouquet of mixed herbs, and moisten with stock. If the 
lettuces are preferred in white sauce, they must be warmed in 
bechamel sauce, thickened with yolks of egg, after being 
braised. 

Uacedoine of fruit in jeUy. 

Take two ounces of gelatine, a pound of crushed sugar, three 
whipped whites of egg, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of 
water ; warm in a preserving-pan, stir until it boils, and pass 
through a jelly bag ; if necessary, pass it a second time, as the 
jelly must be perfectly clear ; when cold, add half a bottle of 
champagne to it. Stew some pieces of apple, pear, plums, 
cherries, and apricots in syrup, leave until cold. Fill a mould 
with alternate layers of the fruit and jelly, until within half an 
inch of the top, let the last layer be of jelly, place in the re- 
frigerator until set ; turn out of the mould, and serve. 



Q 2 



2 28 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



AUGUST 15. 

Potage au macaroni avec parmesan. Maccaroni soup with Parmesan 

cheese. 

Saumon an bleu. Salmon boiled in court-bouillon. 

Fritot de poulets. Chicken fritters. 

Rosbif r6ti. Roast beef. 

Petits pois au lard. Green peas and bacon. 

Flan de poires. Pear tart. 



Salmon boiled in coort-boiiillon. 

Clean, wash, and dry your salmon ; stuff it with butter, 
chopped onions, parsley, salt and pepper ; sew up the head, 
place in a fish-pan with court-bouillon (see i8th of May), made 
with red wine ; as soon as it boils, make a smaller fire, and 
simmer until done, drain, and dish up on a napkin, garnished 
with fried parsley. Any sauce may be handed with this dish. 

Chicken fritters. 

Cut up the chicken into joints, and sqak for an hour in olive 
oil, seasoned with slices of lemon, onions, parsley, salt and 
pepper ; drain, sprinkle them with flour, and fry until a good 
colour ; dish up in a pyramid, cover with tomato sauce, and 
garnish with fried parsley. 

Fish patties. 

Boil a carp with soft roe, a tench, and an eel, in stock ; 
when done, bone them, pound the flesh in a mortar, with a little 
white wine and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Half boil some fine 
oysters. Line the necessary quantity of patty pans with light ^ 
paste, fill with the pounded fish, garnish the centre of each one 
with an oyster and a lump of butter, cover with paste, brush 
over with yolk of egg, and bake. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 229 



AUGUST 16. 

Potage ^ la savoyarde. Soup k la savoyarde. 

Tete de veau ^ Thuile. Cold calf's head with oil and 

vinegar. 

Gigot de mbuton i la nisse. Leg of mutton k la russe. 

B^cassines roties. * Roast snipe. 

Aubergines li la proven9ale. Egg-plant k la proven^ale. 

Cluirtreuse de fruits. Chartreuse of fruit. 



Soup & la savoyarde. 

Soak some slices of bread for a few seconds in boiling stock, 
place them in a deep dish, sprinkle with grated cheese ; brown 
in the oven, and pour some boiling vegetable soup for fast day 
(see 30th of June) over them. 

Leff of mutton k la raise. 

Choose a tender leg of mutton, beat it, and roast ; when three 
quarters done, take it off the fire, place in a shallow pan, moisten 
with two large tumblersful of brandy, warm over a slow fire ; as 
soon as the brandy is hot, set fire to it, and keep turning the 
1^ as long as the brandy burns ; add a little veal stock or 
gravy, simmer, and serve very hot ; skim all grease off the 
sauce. 

Bechamel sauce with stock. 

Stir some butter and flour in a saucepan ; when melted, add 
equal quantities of cream and stock, season with chopped 
eschalots, parsley, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; reduce the 
sauce, pass through a hair sieve, and serve. 



230 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



AUGUST 17. 

Potage ^ I'oseille a la creme. Sorrel soup with cream. 

Matelote savante. Stewed carp, pike, perch, barbel, 

and eel. 

Canard aux navets. Stewed duck and turnips. 

Quartier d*agneau r6ti. * Roast forequarter of lamb. 

Concombres farcies. Stuffed cucumbers. 

P^ches 4 la Bourdaloue. Peaches k la Bourdaloue. 



Stewed carp, pike, peroh, Isarbel, and eel. 

Cut up a carp, pike, barbel, perch, and eel into small pieces. 
Boil the heads and trimmings in equal quantities of white and 
red wine ; pass through a tammy, and cook the fish in this 
sauce, season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, salt, whole black 
pepper, and cloves ; when don6, remove the fish, pass the sauce 
through a tammy, skim off" all grease, reduce, add the same 
quantity of Spanish sauce to it, or a little thick gravy, a wine- 
glassful of Madeira, and reduce until quite thick, pass through 
a tammy into a saucepan, and warm ; stir in a lump of fresh 
butter, a few drops of anchovy sauce, two tablespoonsful of 
shrimp butter, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Dish up the 
fish, garnished with stewed carp's roe, fish quenelles, glazed 
onions, and stewed mushrooms ; pour a little of the sauce over 
them, and hand the remainder in a sauceboat. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



231 



AUGUST 18. 



Potage aux queues de boeuf. 

Turbot au four. 

Selle de mouton braisee. 

. Pluviers rotis. 

CEufs durs sauce a la bechamel. 

Tartelettes aux prunes. 



Ox-tail soup. 

Baked turbot. 
Braised saddle of mutton. 

Roast plover. 
Eggs with bechamel sauce. 

Plum tartlets. 



Baked turbot. 

Soak the turbot for half an hour in melted butter, seasoned 
with parsley, mixed herbs, salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg ; place it in a baking-dish, cover with the seasoning 
and a little of the oil in which it was soaked ; bake, and serve 
with either Italian or piquante sauce. 

Bechamel sauce for fast day, or cream b^chaxnel sauce. 

Take a lump of butter, some finely-chopped parsley, and 
chives j add a teaspoonful of flour mixed in cream ; season 
with salt, white pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; stir 
over the fire in a saucepan until quite thick, pass through a 
fine hair sieve, and serve. . 



Veeretable pie. 

Cook some green peas, young broad beans, small carrots, 
and tender French beans, separately, in cream sauce (see 
above) ; place in a baked pie case, divided into compartments 
by thin pieces of paste, and serve. In winter preserved vege- 
tables may be used for the pie. We have to thank the cele- 
brated Grimod de la Reynibre for inventing this dish, which 
not only pleases the palate but the eye, and is a great addition 
to our fast-day dinners. 



232 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



AUGUST 19. 

Potage de riz aux petits pois. Rice soup with green peas. 

Mulet grille. Broiled mullet. 

Croquettes de volailles. Chicken croquettes. 

Filet de bceuf roti sauce madeie. Roast fillet of beef and Madeira 

sauce. 

Omelette au thon. Tunny omelet. 

Marmelade de mirabelles. Mirabelle plum marmalade. 



Tunny omelet. 

Blanch the soft roe of two carps for five minutes in boiling 
salt and water ; chop them up with a piece of tunny the size 
of a large ^%%^ and an eschalot ; toss in a saucepan with a large 
lump of butter until it has melted, but do not let it boil or it 
will harden the roe. Melt a second lump of butter, season it 
with chopped parsley and chives and a little lemon-juice; pour 
into the dish in which you intend to serve the omelet, and 
keep it warm in the oven-. Beat up twelve fresh eggs, stir in 
the chopped roe and fish, cook the omelet in the usual man- 
ner, but make it rather thick, place in the previously prepared 
dish, and serve very hot. 

Madeira sauce. 

Boil two wine-glassesful of Madeira, a quarter of a pound 
of meat glaze and a little coarse black pepper until reduced to 
a quarter the original quantity ; brown an ounce of flour in an 
ounce and a half of butter, add to the sauce ; simmer for ten 
minutes, skim, pass through a sieve, and serve. 

Mirabelle plum marmalade. 

Prepare the same as peach marmalade (see 3rd of October). 



■s 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 233 



AUGUST 20. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage k la Nimoise. Fish soup ^ la Nimoise. 

Thon grill? i la puree d'oseille. Broiled tunny with pur^e of sorrel. 

Timbale de nouilles au parmesan. Timbale of German paste and Par- 
mesan cheese. 

Carpes frites. Fried carp. 

Pommes de terre ^ la cr^me. Potatoes and cream. 

Pommes meringu^es. Meringue of apples. 



Fish soup d la Nimoise. 

Add some yolks of egg to the necessary quantity of fish 
stock (see 30th of August) ; stir over the fire until thick, with a 
wooden spoon. Dip some white crusts of bread in fish stock, 
place them in the soup-tureen, and add the soup. 

Broiled tunny with pur6e of sorrel. 

Soak a thick slice of tunny for two hours in olive oil seasoned 
with lemon-juice, sliced onions, salt and pepper ; broil over a 
slow fire, and dish up on a purde of sorrel. 

Potatoes and cream. 

Bake your potatoes in the oven; when done, peel, slice 
them and warm in bdchamel sauce (see i8th of August). 

Bread panada made with milk. 

Soak the bread-crumbs in milk, stir before the fire until dry ; 
add some yolks of egg, and keep in a covered jar until re- 
quired. This panada is usually used for forcemeat or quenelles. 



234 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



AUGUST 21. 

Potage de riz au potiron. Rice and leek soup. 

Rosbif \ ranglaise. Roast beef. 

Cervelles frites. Calfs brain fritters. 

Langouste h. la broche. Roast sea crayfish. 

Tomates farcies. Stuffed tomatoes. 

Tartelettes de groseilles rouges. Red gooseberry tartlets. 



Hice and leek soup. 

Cut up your leeks, and cook in thick veal stock, with two 
onions stuck with cloves, celery leaves, salt and pepper ; when 
done, pass through a tammy with a lump of butter ; add some 
rice to the pur^e, which has been boiled, and also mixed with 
butter, and warm in a stew-pan. Serve when thoroughly done. 

« 

CalTs brain fritters. 

Cook the brains the same as for stewed calfs head (see 24th 
of January) ; drain, slice them, dip into batter, and fry until a 
good colour ; dish up in a p)n:amid, covered with Italian sauce. 

Boast sea crayfish. 

Skewer the crayfish on to the spit, and roast before a large 
fire; baste with melted butter mixed with champagne and 
seasoned with salt and pepper; when done, which you can 
tell by the shell getting soft, dish up, pass the dripping through 
a sieve, and flavour it with lemon-juice, a wine-glassful of 
champagne, a pinch of salt, and a little mixed spice ; pour 
over the crayfish, and serve. 

Timbale of German paste. 

Prepare the same as timbale of maccaroni (see ist of 
November) ; only use German paste instead of maccaroni. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 235 



AUGUST 22. 

Potage julienne. Julienne soup. 

Noix de veau braisee. Braised chump of veal, 

Raie frite. Fried skate. 

Canards sauvages rotls. Roast wild duck. 

Haricots blancs ^ la moelle. Haricot beans and marrow. 

Croute aux abricots. Fried slices of brioche with 

apricots. 



Fried skate. 

Blanch a large piece of skate, cut it up into fillets, and soak 
for five hours in vinegar and melted butter, seasoned with 
chopped herbs, salt and pepper; dry them in a cloth, dip into 
milk, sprinkle with flour, fry over a quick fire, and serve, 
garnished with fried celery leaves. 

Haricot beans and marrow. 

Boil some fresh haricot beans in salt and water with an 
onion ; when done, drain, and warm them in beef marrow ; 
season with salt, black pepper, and the juice of a lemon. 

Spanish sauce. 

People often think that this sauce is very expensive to make, 
but the following recipe will show how simple it is to prepare. 
Cut up some trimmings and giblets of fowl, a little veal, and a 
slice of ham ; warm in butter until brown, moisten with a 
tumblerful of white wine and the juice of a lemon, add a little 
stock, and simmer by the side of the fire for several hours ; 
pass through a tammy, clear off all grease, and thicken with a 
little meat glaze. 



236 . THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



AUGUST 23. 

Potage bisque d'ecrevisses. Crajrfish soup. 

Moelle ^ la Orly. Marrow ^ la Orly. 

Poularde en tortue. Stuffed pullet, turtle fashion. 

Filet de boeuf pique roti. Roast larded fillet of beef. 

Celeri au jus. Stewed celery. 

Compote de poires. Comp6te orpeais. 



StufTed pullet, turtle f Etshi o n. 

This is a very pretty entree, and easy to dress. Bone your 
pullet, stuff it with forcemeat (see 6th of April) and savory 
forcemeat (see 28th of August), sew it up, turn the skin of the 
neck half over the head, and cut off part of the comb, which 
will give it the appearance of a turtle's head ; blanch and singe 
four chicken's feet, cut off the claws, and stick two where the 
wings ought to be, and two in the thighs, so as to look like 
turtle's feet; stew the pullet (see 26th of September); when 
done, cut the string with which it was sewn, lay it on its back 
in a dish, gamisTi the breast with sliced truffles, cut in the shape 
of shells, and place a cra3rfish tail to represent the turtle's tail. 
Hand any sauce which may be fancied with this dish. 

Veloute sauce. 

Prepare the same as Spanish sauce, but do not brown the 
ingredients; add a little flour, moisten with either stock or 
boiling water ; season with pepper, salt, and a bouquet of mixed 
herbs ; when cooked, pass through a tammy, and keep in a 
covered jar until required. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 237 



AUGUST 24. 

Potage de riz ^ la pur^e de laitues. Rice soup with puree of lettuce. 

Kperlans ^ Tanelaise. « Smelts k I'anglaise. 

Sarcelles aux olives. Stewed teal and olives. 

Pore frais r6ti. Roast pork. 

Pommes de terre saut^es. Fried potatoes. 

Tourte de cerises. Cherry tart. 



Smelts a I'anfflaise. 

Clean, scale, wash, and dry the smelts ; boil them in equal 
quantities of white wine and water, two tablespoonsful of olive 
oil, and season with salt, pepper, and half a lemon, peeled and 
sliced ; when done, dish up covered with the following sauce. 
Take two tumblersful of white wine, a lump of butter mixed 
with a little flour, salt, pepper, the juice of a lemon, a head of 
garlic blanched and pounded, and chopped parsley and chives ; 
warm in a saucepan, and pour over the fish. 

Stewed teal and olives. 

Pluck, draw, singe, and truss your teal, warm in their own 
fat, after which either roast or braise them. Soak some olives, 
stone them, and simmer in reduced stock, add a little Spanish 
sauce or gravy, and some of the liquor from the braise, and 
dish up the teal on the stewed olives. 

Virgin cream. 

Blanch and pound two ounces of Jordan almonds, moisten 
with a little water, place in a fine hair sieve, and pour a pint of 
boiled reduced cream over them, pass twice through the 
sieve, flavour with lemon or vanille, stir in a little powdered 
sugar, pour into small china moulds, and cook in a bain- 
marie. 



238 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



AUGUST 25. 

Potage napolitain. Neapolitan soup. 

Esturgeon au four. Baked sturgeon. 

Chapon ^ la regence. Capon ^ la regence. 

Cochon de lait roti. Roast sucking-pig. 

Haricots verts 4 Tanglaise. French beans It I'anglaise. 

Mac^doine de fruits. Macedoine of fruit. 



Neapolitan soup. 

Make some game quenelles, and poach them in stock ; soak 
some small round slices of bread-crumb in the $ame stock, 
place bread and quenelles in a soup-tureen, and pour the 
necessary quantity of soup over them. 

Baked slice of sturfireon. 

Lay a fine slice of sturgeon in a tin dish, sprinkle with a 
little olive oil, the juice of a lemon, chopped mixed herbs, salt 
and pepper ; bake, and when done, place in another dish, pass 
the sauce through a tammy, pour over the fish, and hand 
r^moulade sauce separately. 

Capon a la regence. 

Truss your capon for boiling, brown it in butter, lard the 
breast with fine fillets of bacon, braise it (see 28th of May) with 
Madeira, and serve, garnished k la financi^re (see i8th of 
March). 

Tendons of veal '^ith ffreen peas. 

Cut off the best parts of the tendons, trim them all to the 
same shape ; blanch, drain, and warm in butter, moisten with 
stock, season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, salt and pepper ; 
when done, stir in some green peas which have been stewed in 
stock, and serve. 

Boast lesr of mutton. 

Choose a tender leg of mutton, beat it, fix on to the spit, 
and roast for an hour and a half; serve with its own grav}\ 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 239 



AUGUST 26. 

Potage de riz k la turque. Rice soup ^ la turque. 

Meunier aux oignons glacis & Talle- Stewed chub with glazed onions, 
mande. 

Cervelles de veau en brochette. Broiled calf s brains. 

Aloyau ^ Tanglaise. Sirloin of beef ^ Tanglaise. 

CEufs farcis k la sauce tomates. Stuffed eggs with tomato sauce. 

Petites tartelettes de poires. Pear tartlets. 

Bice soup a la turque. 

Boil your rice in stock, flavour with a little saffron, leave on 
the fire until all the stock is absorbed, and place in a buttered 
mould. Make some mutton broth in the same manner as un- 
cleared stock, do not skim off the grease, and pour into a soup- 
tureen. Turn the rice out of the mould, and serve with the 
broth. 

Stewed chub with srlazedL onioxis. 

Cook the chub the same as stewed carp (see ist of March), 
and dish up, garnished with glazed onions, and covered with 
German sauce. 

Broiled calTs brains. 

Skim and blanch the brains, cut into round slices; have 
some boiled calf s udder and truffles, slice to the same shape 
as the pieces of brain, and fix them alternately on to small 
skewers ; dip into velout^ sauce, to which you have added a 
lump of butter, the juice of a lemon, and two or three yolks of 
egg ; when cold, dip into melted butter, and bread-crumb them ; 
. repeat this, and broil until a golden colour. Cover with any 
highly-seasoned sauce. 



240 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



\ 



AUGUST 27. 

Potage anx pois chiches. Chick pea soup. 

Vives a la normande. Weavers k la normande. 

Cotelettes de pore frais sauce Pork cutlets, ravigote sauce, 
ravigote. • 

Poulets r6tis. Roast chickens. 

Choux-fleurs au gratin avec par- Baked cauliflower with bread- 

mesan. crumbs. 

Petits pots de cr^me. Virgin cream. 



Chick pea soup. 

Soak the peas for twenty-four hours in water in which spinach 
has been boiled ; cook them in water, season with onions, a 
bouquet of mixed herbs and salt ; sprinkle some slices of bread 
with olive oil or melted butter, place in the soup-tureen, pour 
some of the boiling soup over them ; when swollen, add the 
remainder of the soup and peas, and serve. 

Weavers a la Nonnande. 

Clean and scrape the weavers, be careful not to prick your 
fingers with the fins, as they are poisonous ; cut off the heads 
and tails, lard them with fillets of eel and anchovy, and cook 
in white wine, seasoned with carrots, onions, butter, parsley, 
cloves, thyme, and laurel leaves ; when done, pass the sauce 
through a tammy, stir in a lump of butter mixed with flour, boil 
and pour over the weavers, dish up, and squeeze some lemon- 
juice over them. 

Weavers k la Bordelaise. 

Prepare in the same manner as above, only serve covered 
with Italian sauce. 

Pork outlets. 

Trim your cutlets, leave a little fat, beat them until flat, 
sprinkle with salt and bread-crumbs, grill over a slow fire, and 
serve with ravigote sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 241 



AUGUST 28. 

Potage croilte au pot. Soup with fried gravy crusts. 

Rougets sauce aux huStres. Red mullet, oyster sauce. 

Canards sauvages en salmis. Salmis of wild duck. 

Rognon de veau r6ti. Roast calf s kidney. 

Artichauts It Tessence de jambon. Stewed artichokes with essence of 

ham. 

Tartelettes ^ la vanille. . Vanilla tartlets. 



Salmis of wild duck. 

Wrap up two or three wild duck in buttered sheets of paper, 
roast until three quarters done, cut them up into joints, 
and keep warm in a saucepan by the fire-side, with their 
dripping. Boil the trimmings in two tumblersful of red wine, 
season with half an eschalot, cloves, and a pinch of white 
pepper ; when reduced one half, pass through a tammy into a 
saucepan, stir in a lump of meat glaze, grated crust of bread, 
a tablespoonful of olive oil, and the juice of a lemon ; dish up 
the pieces of duck, pour the sauce over them, and garnish 
with sippets of fried bread. This salmis can also be made 
with scraps of cold wild duck remaining from the previous 
day's dinner. 

Savory forcemeat. 

This forcemeat is composed of minced ham, onions, sweet- 
breads, truffles, and mushrooms. First warm the ham and 
onion in either melted butter or lard, add the other ingredients ; 
moisten with stock, and boil ; stir in some yolks of egg and 
lemon-juice before taking off the fire. Chicken's breasts, 
foie gras, kidneys, ot cockscombs can be added to this force- 
meat. 



242 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



AUGUST 29. 

Potageau riz. Rice soup. 

Filets de grondins sauce tomates. Fillets of gurnet, tomato sauce. 

Ris de veau k la proven9ale. Sweet-breads ^ la proven9ale. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Quenelles de pommes de terre frites. Fried potato quenelles. 

Compote de peches. Compdte of peaches. 



Sweet-breads a la provexi9ale. 

Blanch your sweet-breads, drain and cover them with slices 
of bacon, braise in stock seasoned with tarragon leaves, a head 
of garlic, salt and pepper ; when done, dish them up on a hot 
dish, pass the sauce through a tammy, and pour over them. 

Fried potato quenelles. 

Scoop out the centre of some fine, mealy, baked potatoes, 
stir into three quarters their weight of butter, and a little 
chopped parsley; warm in a saucepan, add sufficient eggs to 
make the paste poach when dropped into boiling water; 
season with salt and pepper, poach a dessert-spoonful at a 
time of the quenelle paste, drain, and when cold, fry in butter 
until a golden colour. 

Compote of peaches. 

Cut your peaches in half, stone them, and dip into boiling 
water, peel, and cook them in hot S3rrup, take off the fire when 
they have boiled over twice. Place the peaches in a glass 
dish, pass the syrup through a sieve, pour over the fruit, and 
serve when cold. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 243 



AUGUST 30. 

Potage au consomme de poisson. Clear fish soup. 

Cotelettes de veau milanaise. Veal cutlets ^ la milanaise. 

Carpe It la Chambord. Carp k la Chambord. 

Perdreaux rotis. Roast partridges. 

Omelette aux anchois. Anchovy omelet. 

Baba au rhum. Baba, or rum cake. 



Clear fish soup. 

Take some chopped onions, carrots, celery, eschalots, 
parsley, thyme, a head of garlic, salt and pepper ; brown in 
butter until a good colour, moisten with three parts water and 
one part white wine ; boil and skim, add some gurnet, whiting, 
the head of a turbot, and any fish trimmings you may have ; 
boil for two or three hours, and squeeze through a cloth. 
Warm in a stock-pot, and pour over quenelles of fish or slices 
of bread. 

Anchovy omelet. 

Soak twelve anchovies for a quarter of an hour in water, 
scrape and clean them, cut into fillets, and lay them on thin 
pieces of toast which have been dipped into boiling olive oil. 
Beat up twelve fresh eggs, season with salt, pepper, and 
chopped parsley ; pour half of them into a frying-pan with 
boiling oil, make a thin flat omelet ; when done, place on a 
dish, lay the anchovy toasts on it ; make a second omelet with 
the remainder of the eggs, cover the toast with it, and serve. 
Sprinkle with either strong gravy or some rich brown sauce. 



R 2 



244 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



\ 



AUGUST 31. 

Potage napolitain. Neapolitan soup. 

Brumes de mer au vin blanc. Sea bream boiled in white wine. 

Pluviers braises. Braised plover. 

Gigot de mouton r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Haricots panaches sautes. French beans and haricots i la 

maStre d'hotel. 

SouflBe glacd vanille et chocolat. Iced vanilla and chocolate souffle. 



Braised plover. 

Braise the plover (see 28th of May). When done, dear the 
sauce of all grease, pass through a tammy, pour over the 
birds, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them before 
serving. 

Iced vanilla and chocolate souffle. 

Stir sixteen yolks of egg, four wine-glassesful of clarified syrup, 
and a tumblerful of water together in a bowl, pass through a 
hair sieve, and warm in a saucepan with a stick of vanilla 
until a thick custard ; remove the vanilla, pour into a bowl 
which has been warmed in hot water, and whip until a thick 
paste ; add a pint of cream which has been whipped, and pour 
into a souffle mould j place a sheet of paper between the cover 
and the mould so that the souffle may rise, leave in the 
freezing machine for two hours, add a layer of chocolate 
melted in iced water, and leave for another two hours ; take 
off the paper, and serve in the mould. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 245 



SEPTEMBER i, 

Consomm^ aux oeufs poches. Clear soup and poached eggs. 

Tete de veaii farcie. Stuffed calf s head. 

Cotelettes de mouton k la financi^re. Mutton cutlets i la financi^re. 

Cailles roties. Roast quail, 

tcrevisses au court-bouillon. Crayfish boiled in court -bouillon. 

Macedoine de fruits au citron. Macedoine of fruit flavoured with 

lemon. 



Stuffed calTs head. 

Trim, bone, blanch, and empty the calf s head ; stuff it with 
forcemeat (see 6th of April) and chopped truffles ; sew it 
up to its original shape, tie a cloth very tight round it, and 
place in a stew-pan, with slices of bacon, lemon, carrots, 
onions stuck with cloves, and a bouquet of mixed herbs; 
moisten with stock and water, and boil for three or four 
hours ; when done, leave in the stew-pan until time to serve 
it. Hand poivrade sauce (see loth of April) separately. 

Almoxid butter. 

Pound fifteen Jordan almonds, and three bitter ones, with 
four ounces of sugar ; moisten with a few drops of milk, pass 
through a fine sieve, stir into half a pound of fresh butter, and 
pass through a tammy into the dish or shell in which it will 
be served. The butter will have the appearance of coarse 
vermicelli. This pretty side dish is rarely seen on the dinner- 
table. 



246 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 2. 

Potage bisque au riz. Crayfish soup with rice. 

Li^vre ^ la mode. Hare a la mode. 

Goujons frits. Fried gudgeon. 

Rosbif roti. Roast beef. 

Pommes sautees. Fried potatoes. 

Beignets souffles. Souffle fritters. 



Crayfish soup with rice. 

Boil fifty crayfish in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), shell 
them, and pound in a mortar, with the same quantity of 
breast of chicken. Dry the shells and claws in the oven, 
pound them, boil in stock, and when done, pass through a 
tammy, stir in the pounded crayfish, and warm in a bain- 
marie. Just before serving, add a little rice, which has been 
boiled in stock. 

Hare a la mode. 

Skin the hare (reserve all the blood for the gravy), cut it up 
into joints, and lard with fine fillets of bacon, place in an 
earthenware pot, with some slices of salt pork, chopped 
bacon, salt, mixed spice, carrots, a lump of lard, ^nd a tum- 
blerful of red wine ; lay two sheets of buttered paper over it, 
fix on the lid quite tight, and simmer over a slow fire. When 
nearly done, stir in the blood, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 247 



SEPTEMBER 3. 

Potage de consomme anx quenelles. Clear soup with quenelles. 

Carpe i T^tuvee. Stewed carp. 

Cotelettes de chevieuil sautees. Stewed roebuck cutlets. 

Dinde r5tie. Roast turkey-hen. 

Oseille en pur^ gamie d'oeufs. Puree of sorrel with poached eggs. 

Peches au riz. Peaches and rice. 



Quenelle forcemeat. 

This forcemeat is made of either fowl, fish, game, or veal. 
Dip some cnmib of bread in either milk or stock, dry in a 
saucepan ; when cold, stir in a lump of butter, or the fat from 
a calfs kidney; season with salt and mixed spice; cut up 
whatever meat you wish to employ into small dice, add to the 
bread-crumb, pound, and stir in an egg at a time, until a thick 
paste. Shape your quenelles in a spoon, and poach, in either 
stock or salt and water, for about ten minutes, drain, and serve. 
Use equal quantities of bread-crumb, butter, and meat, for 
this forcemeat. 

Half braise or white braise. 

Line the braising-pan with slices of bacon and veal ; season 
with carrots, onions, thyme, salt and pepper, and moisten 
.whatever meat or poultry you wish to braise with white wine 
and veal stock; cover with slices of bacon, fix on the lid of the 
braising-pan very tight, and simmer until done. 



248 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 4. 

Potage puree de haricots. Pur^e of haricot beans. 

Anguille k la sauce verte. Eel with green sauce. 

Noix de veau braisee aax carottes. Braised chump of veal and carrots. 

Grives r6ties. Roast thrushes. 

Champignons farcis. Stuffed mushrooms. 

Compote de poires. Comp6te of pears. 



Boast throBhes. 

Pluck and blanch the thrushes, but do not draw them ; wrap 
up in a vine leaf and a slice of bac6n, fix on to the spit with 
a skewer, place some slices of toasted bread with a little 
butter in the dripping-pan ; when done, dish up the thrushes 
on the toast, and sprinkle with lemon-juice and a little white 
pepper. It takes about a quarter of an hour to roast them. 



Stuifed mushrooms. 

Wash the mushrooms quickly, dry, drain, and trim them ; 
chop up the stalks with a quarter their quantity of parsley, 
and some eschalots, squeeze in a cloth, and warm for five 
minutes in butter and a little brown thickening ; fill the mush- 
rooms with this stuffing, place them on a buttered baking-dish, 
sprinkle with grated bread-crust, and bake for ten minutes. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 249 



SEPTEMBER 5. 

Potage aux herbes proven^ale. Herb soup ^ la proven9ale. 

Cote de boeuf biaisee a la flamande. Braised ribs of beef a la flamande. 

Pieds de mouton frits. Fried sheep's trotters. 

Gigot de cbevreuil roti. Roast leg of roebuck. 

Croute aux champignons. Broiled mushrooms on toast. 

Tartes aux prunes mirabelles. Mirabelle plum tart. 



Herb soup d la proveii9ale. 

Take some spinach, white beet, celery, chervil and sorrel 
leaves, wash them carefully, and boil in water ; when nearly 
done, add a little garlic, or a sliced onion, a lump of butter, 
salt and pepper ; thicken with yolks of egg, and pour into the 
soup-tureen, on slices of bread. 

Fried sheep's trotters. 

Boil the trotters, cut them up into small fillets, soak for half 
an hour, in vinegar and water, drain, dip into batter, and fry 
until a good colour. Dish up, garnished with fried parsley. 

Boast leg" of roebuck. 

Trim the leg, and lard it with fine fillets of bacon; soak for 
six hours in olive oil and salt ; roast for an hour, and baste 
with some of the olive oil. Serve with poivrade sauce in a 
sauceboaL Some people prefer roebuck more highly seasoned, 
in which case, soak the leg for two days in olive oil, with half 
a bottle of red wine, salt, mixed spice, sliced onions, and 
thyme. 



250 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 6. 

Potage \ la franfaise. French soup. 

Piece de boeuf bouillie sauce Boiled beef with tomato sauce, 
tomates. 

Barbottes en casserole. Stewed eel pout. 

Lievre r6ti. Roast hare. 

Artichauts k la lyonnaise. Artichokes ^ la lyonnaise. 

Fondue au fromage. Cheese fondu. 



Stewed eel pout. 

Clean and empty the eel pout ; warm the livers in a little 
browned butter and flour, add the fish, moisten with white 
wine, season with pepper, salt, chopped herbs, a bouquet of 
herbs, and mushrooms ; cook over a slow fire. When done, 
serve, garnished with the mushrooms ; pass the sauce through a 
tammy, and pour over them. 

Artioliokes a la lyonnaise. 

Cut up the artichokes into quarters, remove the chokes, 
blanch, drain, and warm them in melted butter, flavoured with 
lemon-juice, simmer until done, take out the artichokes ; 
moisten the sauce with stock, and a little brown thickening, 
season with a sliced onion, stir in a lump of butter, and leave 
on the fire until brown ; pass through a tammy, season with 
salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Warm the artichokes in 
this sauce, and serve. 

Cheese fondu. 

Weigh the eggs you are going to use, take a third their 
weight of grated Parmesan cheese, and a sixth part of butter, 
stir in a saucepan until the eggs are set, pour into a very hot 
dish, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 251 



SEPTEMBER 7. 

Potage aux pois verts. Green pea soup. 

Vives £ la maitre d*hotel. Weavers ^ la maitre d'hotel. 

Gigot de mouton braise. Braised 1^ of mutton. 

Faisau r6ti k la Brillat-Savarin. Roast pheasant ^ la Brillat-Savarin. 

Choux-fleurs au gratin. Baked cauliflower with bread- 
crumbs. 

Bavarois au melon. Bavarian cream with melon syrup. 



Boast pheasant a la Brillat-Savarin. 

Brillat-Savarin gave the following orders for cooking a 
pheasant: — Hang until tender, pluck, draw, and lard it carefully. 
Bone and draw two woodcocks, keep the trail separate, throw 
away the gizzards, chop up the meat with beef marrow which has 
been cooked by steam, scraped bacon, pepper, salt, mixed 
herbs, and truffles ; fill the pheasant with this stufgng, which is 
rather difficult to keep in if the bird is at all high, in which case 
fix it in with a piece of bread the shape of a cork, and tie it 
round with fine thread. Lay a thick slice of bread two or 
three inches broader than the pheasant in the dripping-pan ; 
pound the trail of the woodcock in a mortar with truffles, an 
anchovy, a little scraped bacon, and a lump of firesh butter, 
spread a thick layer on the bread, roast the pheasant over it so 
as to catch all the dripping, and dish up on it. Simple mortals 
roast their pheasants in the same manner as partridges, and 
hang them until they are so high that they are hardly eatable. 



252 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 8. 

Potage ^ la pur^e de perdrix. Pur^ of partridge. 

Truite sauce diplomate. Trout, diplomatic sauce. 

Filets de mouton minute. Fillets of mutton ^ la minute. 

Oie roti. Roast goose. 

Aubergines \ la proven9ale. Egg-plant ^ la proven5ale. 

Beignets de pommes glacis. Glazed apple fritters. 



Puree of partrldfire. 

Roast fifty chestnuts, peel, and simmer them in strong stock. 
Roast a freshly-killed partridge, cut off all the meat ; drain the 
chestnuts, and pound in a mortar with the partridge ; pass 
through a tammy, stir in some crumb of bread, which has been 
soaked in the chestnut stock, and serve very hot. 

Fillets of mutton a la minute. 

Boil some strong stock in a saucepan ; when nearly reduced 
to a glaze, add a large slice of bacon and your fillets of mutton, 
cover with a buttered paper, and simmer over a slow fire for 
ten or twelve minutes, when the fillets will be cooked and 
glazed; be careful the bacon does not bum. Dish up the 
mutton, moisten the glaze remaining in the saucepan with a little 
stock, and pour over the fillets. 

A fillet of beef cut into slices can also be prepared in this 
manner. 

Boast ffoose. 

Stuff your goose with forcemeat, roast it, and baste frequently ; 
when done, serve with its own gravy. A fine goose takes about 
two hours to roast. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 253 



SEPTEMBER 9. 

Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

Anguille ^ la tartare. Eel a la tartare. 

Lapereaux grilles. Broiled rabbit. 

Filet debceufr6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Macedoine de legumes a la Vegetable pie ^ la bechamel, 
bechamel. 

Dumpling aux pommes. Apple pudding. 



Eel k la tartare. 

Brown some chopped carrots, onions, and a bouquet of mixed 
herbs in butter; sprinkle with flour, and moisten with white wine; 
cook for half an hour, and pass through a tammy. Skin your 
eel, roll it round into a spiral shape, and cook in the sauce ; 
when done, place it on a dish, and leave until cold, after which 
dip into beaten yolks of egg, bread-crumb it, and broil over a 
slow fire ; hold) hot coals over the eel so as to save turning it ; 
serve on a round dish, with either anchovy butter or remoulade 
sauce. 

Broiled rabbit. 

Split open your rabbit, beat until flat, wrap it up in buttered 
sheets of paper, and broil; when done, remove the paper, and 
serve with either anchovy butter, or butter mixed with chopped 
herbs. 

Apple pudding:. 

Roll out some paste very thin, cover it with sliced apples, 
sprinkle with plenty of sugar, moisten the edges of the paste, 
and roll into the shape of a ball, tie up in a cloth, and boil in 
water for an hour; when done, dish up the pudding, and 
sprinkle it with hot melted butter and powdered sugar. This 
pudding can be made with any kind of fruit, such as plums, or 
raspberries and currants. 



254 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



SEPTEMBER 10. 

MENU EN M.UGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage puree d'oignons aux que- Puree of onions with fish quenelles, 
nelles de poisson. 

Matelote ^ la marini^re. Stewed carp, pike, perch, barbel, 

and eel. 

Salmis de macreuse. Salmis of black diver. 

Turbot en mayonnaise. Mayonnaise of turbot. 

Petits pois au beurre. . Green peas and butter. 

Gateau d'amandes. Almond cake. 



Salxois of black diver. 

Roast your birds about three quarters, cut into joints, and 
simmer in the following sauce. Warm some truffle trimmings 
in butter, stir in a little flour, moisten with white wine, season 
with mixed herbs, laurel leaves, an onion stuck with cloves, and 
a head of garlic ; at the end of five minutes moisten with vege- 
table stock (see 30th of June), add some blanched celery heads 
and stoned olives. When ready, add the pieces of bird, simmer 
until done, and dish up, garnished with the celery and olives ; 
pass the sauce through a tammy, and pour over the aspic 

Mayonnaise of turbot. 

Skin some fillets of cold boiled turbot, cut them either into 
small round, or heart-shaped slices, and soak in oil and vine- 
gar, seasoned with salt, coarse black pepper, and chopped 
eschalots, and tarragon leaves, until sufficiently flavoured ; dish 
up the pieces of fish in the shape of a crown, and garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs, fillets of gherkins and anchovies, sliced beet- 
root, capers, tarragon leaves, and small squares of meat jelly. 
Fill the centre of the dish with mayonnaise sauce, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 255 



SEPTEMBER 11. 

Potage aux choux. Cabbage soup. 

Choux au lard. Boiled cabbage and bacon. 
Selle de mouton k la puree de Saddle of mutton with pure'e of 

navets. turnips. 

Pate d'alouettes. Lark pie. 

Kcrevisses ^ la bordelaise. Crajrfish ^ la bordelaise. 

Beignets de poires. Pear fritters. 

Boiled cabbage and bacon. 

Blanch a fine white cabbage, divide it into several pieces, and 
boil in a saucepan, with either a piece of bacon or salt pork, 
water, salt, pepper, slices of German sausage, and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg ; as soon as the water boils, make a smaller fire, 
and leave until thoroughly done. Dish up the pork or bacon 
on the pieces of cabbage, reduce the sauce, stir in a lump of 
butter, mixed with flour, and pour over the cabbage and 
bacon. 

Lark pie. 

Pluck, singe, and flatten the backs of two or three dozen 
larks, draw them, throw away the gizzards, and pound the trail 
in a mortar with scraped bacon and mixed herbs ; fill the larks 
with this, and wrap each one in a slice of bacon. Line a plain 
mould with paste, fill it with the larks, sprinkle them with salt 
and pepper, spread a thick layer of butter over them, add two 
or three laurel leaves, and a pinch of mixed spice ; cover with 
paste, and bake for two hours and a half. Turn out of the 
mould, and serve cold. 

Portuemese sauce. 

Simmer five ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan, with two 
yolks of egg, a little lemon-juice, salt, and coarse black pepper ; 
stir until the sauce is quite hot, take it off the fire, and stir 
until it thickens. This sauce must be made just before 
serving. 



256 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 12. 

Potage julienne. Julienne soup. 

Filets de soles k la cardinal. Filets of sole ^ la cardinal. 

Salmis de b^casses. Salmis of woodcock. 

Filet de bceuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Puree de pommes de terre ^ la Puree of potatoes k la Maria. 
Maria. 

Plum-pouding anglais. Plum pudding. 



Salmis of woodcock. 

Cut up some roast woodcock into joints, skin, and trim 
them, pound the carcases, and boil for half an hour in white 
wine seasoned with eschalots, half a laurel leaf, a head of 
garlic, and parsley ; clear of all grease, pass through a tammy, 
stir into some brown thickening, warm in a stew-pan, and as 
soon as it boils,, add the pieces of woodcock, simmer over a 
slow fire for ten minutes, and dish up, covered with the sauce, 
and garnished with sippets of fried bread. 

Baked e^gB. 

Spread a thick layer of fresh butter in a tin or plated dish, 
sprinkle with salt, and break your eggs carefully on to it, one 
at a time ; pour a little cream over them, sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg ; place a few small lumps of butter 
between the eggs, bake in the oven or on hot cinders, and 
brown with a salamander. 

Puree of potatoes a la Maria. 

Peel and boil your potatoes in strong stock, pass them 
through a tammy, and stir into Spanish, velout^, or b^hamel 
sauce. When a proper substance, pour into a dish, and brown 
in the oven, or with a salamander. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 257 



SEPTEMBER 13. 

Potage 4 la puree de pois verts. Pur^e of green peas. 

Raie ^ I'italienne. Skate ^ I'italienne. 

Gigot de Mouton ^ la Durand. Braised leg of mutton 4 la Durand. 

Outarde canepeti^re r6tie. Roast bustard. 

Chicor^ au velout^. Pur^e of chicory with cream. 

Beignets de pommes. Apple fritters. 



Braised leff of mutton a la Durand. 

It is absolutely necessary to have a tender leg of mutton for 
this dish. Remove the bone as far as the handle, lard the in- 
side, and season it with chopped ham, gherkins, anchovies, 
truffles, and spiced salt ; sew the leg to its original form, and 
braise it (see 28th of May) over a slow fire ; when done, remove 
the string, and dish it up, garnished k la Durand (see 19th 
of September). 

Sploed salt. 

The great cook, Durand, of illustrious memory, advocated 
the use of spiced salt, which he said had often stood him in 
good stead. The following are the exact quantities he gave in 
his recipe. 

Take twenty ounces of salt, four heads of cloves, two nut- 
megs, six laurel leaves, a stick of cinnamon, four whole black 
peppers, half a quarter of an ounce of basil leaves, and the 
same quantity of coriander seeds ; pound in a mortar, pass 
through a tammy, pound any large pieces that remain over, 
pass through the tammy, and keep in tightly corked bottles. 



258 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



SEPTEMBER 14. 

Garbure gratinee au gras. Bread and cabbage soup for feast 

day. 

Brochet sauce raifort. Pike, raifort sauce. 

Cotelettes de mouton ^ la Soubise. Mutton cutlets ^ la Soubise. 

Perdreaux rotis. Roast partridges, 

fepinards ^ la creme. Spinach and cream. 

Eclairs au chocolat. Chocolate fingers with ci'eam. 



Bread and oabbagre soiip for feast day. 

This soup is of Gascon origin, and must always be browned 
in the oven before serving. Cut up your cabbages into quarters, 
blanch, and dry them carefully in a cloth, tie a string round 
each piece, and place in a stew-pan, lined with slices of bacon ; 
add a piece of salt pork, slices of ham, a knuckle of veal, onions, 
carrots, and a bouquet of mixed herbs, moisten with stock, and 
simmer over a slow fire ; when done, add some thick slices of 
bread-crumb, and as soon as they begin to thicken the soup, re- 
move the pieces of cabbage, place them on a cloth, cut off the 
string, and sqeeze them. Grate equal quantities of Gruy^re 
and Parmesan cheese, and sprinkle some at the bottom of an 
earthenware pot or soup-tureen, fill it with alternate layers 
of cabbage and the soaked slices of bread-crumb, sprinkling 
each one with grated cheese — be careful that the last layer is 
of cabbage — cover it thickly with cheese, and brown in the 
oven or with a salamander. 



I 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 259 



SEPTEMBER 15. 

Potage fausse tortue. Mock turtle soup. 

Coquilles aux huitres. Scalloped oysters. 

Cote de bcjeuf braisee gamie de Braised ribs of beef and stuffed 

tomates farcies. tomatoes. 

Cailles roties. Roast quail. 

Chicor^ au jus. Stewed chicory. 

Pommes au riz. Stewed apples with rice. 



Mock turtle soup. 

Make some white thickening with half a pound of butter, 
the same quantity of flour, two quarts of good stock, and a 
little reduced white veal stock ; as soon as it boils, take off the 
fire, and leave to simmer by the side ; add two tumblersful of 
Madeira, and season with th5m[ie, savory, pounded eschalots, 
and laiu"el leaves ; when sufficiently done, skim off all grease, 
and pass through a tammy. Boil your calfs head in thin 
white thickening, press it between two dishes ; when cold, cut 
it up into dice, and warm in some of the liquor in which it 
was cooked, flavoured with Madeira ; add the pieces of calfs 
head to the soup, and boil for a few minutes, stir in a pinch 
of cayenne pepper, and pour into the soup-tureen, in which 
you have previously placed some small chicken quenelles. 

Boast quail. 

Pluck, draw, and singe the quails ; wrap them up in vine 
leaves and thin slices of bacon, only allow half of the legs to 
appear, skewer them on to the spit, and roast for twenty 
minutes. 



s 2 



26o THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 16. 

Purde de pois verts aux cro^ltons. Green pea soup and toast. 

Barbue 4 la proven9ale. Brill k la proven9ale. 

C6telettes de veau braisfe, gamies Braised veal cutlets with French 

de haricots verts. beans. 

Canards sauvages r6tis. Roast wild duck. 

Salsifis frits. Fried salsilis. 

Darioles ^ la vanille. Duchess cakes. 



Gharnisli k la Durand. 

I give this recipe in Monsieur Durand's (the celebrated chef 
in the south of France) own words. 

Place a large slice of fat bacon in a saucepan ; when melted, 
remove any lean there may be, and add a slice of ham, cut 
into small fillets, a lump of fresh butter, and either a calf s or 
lamb's sweet-bread cut into large dice, moisten with Spanish 
sauce, and the dripping from a roast leg of mutton, which has 
been carefully skimmed, and passed through a tammy ; add 
thick slices of truffles, mushrooms, chicken quenelles, olives 
stuffed with truffle forcemeat (see 22nd of September), boiled 
chicken combs, and ox palates, the latter cut into dice, and 
lastly, some cock's livers, simmer by the side of the fire, and 
just before serving, add six hard-boiled yolks of tg%^ a few 
crayfish tails, and four dozen oysters, which have been 
blanched and warmed for a minute, in mutton gravy, seasoned 
with gherkins and mixed herbs; when done, clear oflF all 
grease, and pour over whatever hot joint you wish to garnish. 

" The thought of this dish is sufficient to give new hunger 
to those who have already dined well." 



4 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 261 



SEPTEMBER 17. 

Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

Fricass^ de poulets a la Dubany. Fricassee of fowls ^ la Du Barry. 

Moules ^ la Villeroi. Mussels ^ la Villeroi. 

Filet de chevreuil r6ti sauce poiv- Roast fillet of roebuck, poivrade 

rade, sauce. 

Croiite aux champignons. Mushrooms on toast. 

Tarte aux poires. Pear tart. 



Fricassee of fowls k la Du Barry. 

Cut up your fowls into joints, and soak for an hour m cold 
water, which change two or three times ; drain, and dry them 
carefully in a cloth, and c6ok in water ; as soon as it begins 
to boil, remove the pieces of fowl, and pass the liquor through 
a tammy. Warm a lump of butter, some scraped bacon, and 
a slice of Bayonne ham over a slow fire ; when quite hot, add 
the pieces of fowl, and as soon as they begin to stiffen, stir in 
a tablespoonful of flour; take the saucepan off the fire, moisten 
the fricassde with equal quantities of stock, and the liquor in 
which the fowls were boiled ; season with a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and boil for three quarters 
of an hour, remove the onion, and herbs, and if the sauce is 
sufficiently reduced, stir in some yolks of ^%g^ and serve. 

Boast loin of pork k la Robert. 

Cover a fresh loin of pork for two days with coarse salt \ 
roast it, and serve with Robert sauce. 



262 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



SEPTEMBER 18. 

Potage aux pates d'ltalie. Clear soup with Italian paste. 
Bouilli en matelote. Hashed boiled beef. 

Perdrix ^ Testouffade. Stewed partridges. 

Brochet au bleu. Pickled pike. 

Chicoree au veloute. Puree of chicory with cream. 
Baba au rhum. Baba or rum cake. 



Hashed boiled beef. 

Brown some young onions in butter, sprinkle with flour, and 
moisten with a tumblerful of red wine, and half a tumblerful 
of stock ; add some mushrooms, laurel leaves, th)rme, salt and 
pepper ; when done, pour over some slices of cold boiled beef, 
which have been laid in a tin dish, simmer in the oven for half 
an hour, and serve. 

Stewed partridges. 

Pluck, draw, singe, and truss your partridges ; lard with 
highly-flavoured bacon, and place in a saucepan, with onions, 
carrots, slices of bacon, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and equal 
quantities of stock and white wine, simmer over a slow fire ; 
when done, dish up the partridges, reduce the sauce, skim off 
all grease, pass through a tammy; if necessary, add a little 
gravy, and pour over the birds. 

Boiled calfs feet. 

Clean and blanch the feet, beat them, and remove the 
bones, boil in uncleared stock, and serve, covered with a 
sauce made with stock, pepper, salt, chopped mixed herbs, 
and a few drops of vinegar. 

Brill a la provencale. 
Soak a brill in oil for an hour, fry it, and when done, fillet 
it, and serve, garnished with stuffed olives and anchovy 
sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



263 



SEPTEMBER 19. 



Potage croiite au pot. 
Bremes de mer au vin blanc. 

Mauviettes en caisse. 
Cuissot de sanglier ^ la royale. 

C^leri au jus. 
Petits pots de creme au cafe. 



Soup with fried gravy crusts. 
Bream with white wine sauce. 

Larks in cases. 
Haunch of boar ^ la royale. 

Stewed celery. 
Small pots of coffee cream. 



Larks in cases. 

Bone the larks, and stuff them with forcemeat, to which 
you have added their livers minced very fine. Oil as many 
small paper cases as there are larks, cover the bottoms with 
forcemeat, and add the larks wrapped up in slices of bacon 
and buttered paper, bake in the oven ; when done, remove the 
bacon and paper from the larks, clear all grease out of the 
cases, moisten with a little gravy, replace the birds, and 
serve. 

Haunch of boar k la royale. 

Lard the haunch, and soak it for four or five days in white 
wine ; after which, tie it up tight in a cloth, and place in a 
braising-pan, with six bottles of white wine, the same quantity 
of water, eight carrots, eight onions, three heads of cloves, 
grated nutmeg, a bouquet of parsley, chives, and bay salt ; 
simmer for six hours, after which, boil over a quick fire for an 
hour, when the haunch ought to be cooked; leave in the 
braising-pan for half an hour, remove the cloth, trim the 
haunch, and cover with its own sauce, passed through a 
tammy; when cold, sprinkle with grated bread-crust, and 
serve. 



264 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 20. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Brunoise ^ la puree de lentilles. Puree of lentils. 

Soles en matelote normande. Soles k la normande. 

Macreuse au chocolat. Black diver with chocolate sauce. 

Goujons frits. Fried gudgeon. • 

Cardons ^ la poulette. Cardoons with white sauce. 

Gateau de riz. Rice cake. 



Soles a la Normande. 

Line a tin or plated dish with butter, sprinkle with finely- 
chopped onion and parsley ; lay the soles on this, covered with 
salt and pepper, moisten with either white wine or good cider, 
and place in the oven ; when the sole is done, make some 
white thickening, stir in any juice there may be from the sole, 
a little of the water in which your mussels have been boiled, 
thicken with yolks of egg, and pour half of this sauce over the 
sole ; place some mussels, oysters, and mushrooms, which have 
been boiled separately, round the dish, cover with the re- 
mainder of the sauce, and warm in the oven for five minutes. 
Serve, garnished with boiled crayfish, fried smelts, and fried 
sippets of bread, which must not touch the sauce. 

Black diver with chocolate sauce. 

Draw the bird, wash it in brandy, and brown over hot 
cinders ; place it in an earthenware jar, with white wine, salt, 
laurel leaves, and fine herbs, simmer over a slow fire, and when 
done, dish up, covered with chocolate made in the usual 
manner. 

Cardoons with white sauoe. 

Prepare the same as on 7th December; when done, toss 
the cardoons in a saucepan with a lump of butter mixed with 
flour, moisten with cream, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, 
and sprinkle with a few drops of lemon-juice and vinegar before 
serving; 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 265 



SEPTEMBER 21. 

Potage julienne. Julienne soup. 

Carr^ de veau piqu^ et brais^. Loin of Teal, larded and braised. 

Carpes frites. Fried carp. 

Becasses ^ Fesprit<le-vin.' Salmis of woodcock k Vesprit de vin. 

Salade de pommes de terre. Potato salad. 

Peches an riz au marasqum. Peaches with maraschino rice. 



Loin of veal, larded and braised. 

Bone the loin and lard it with thick fillets of bacon. Line 
a stew-pan with slices of bacon, chopped parsley, chives and 
a head of garlic ; add laurel leaves, thyme, salt, coarse black 
pepper, and the loin of veal, cover it with slices of onion, 
carrot, and parsnip, simmer over a slow fire for half an hour, 
moisten with stock ; when done, dish up the veal, reduce the 
sauce, pass it through a tammy, and pour over the meat. 

Potato salad. 

Either boil, or better still, bake your potatoes, peel, slice 
them and place in a salad bowl, with two or three onions cut 
into quarters and two wine-glassesful of red wine, stir until- 
thoroughly mixed, season with salt, pepper, plenty of oil, and 
a little ^dnegar ; add some chervil leaves chopped very fine, 
and if not objected to, a few thin fillets of smoked herring, 
stir until thoroughly mixed, remove the pieces of onion, and 
serve. " This is an excellent salad." 



266 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 22. 

Potage aux profiteroles. Clear soup with profit-rolls. 

Bifteck au beurre d'anchois. Steak with anchovy butter. 

Cailles aux petits pois. Quail and green peas. 

Lievre roti. Roast hare. 

Artichauts frits. Fried artichokes. 

Macedoine de fruits au champagne. Macedoine of fruit flavoured with 

champagne. 

Clear soup with profit-rolls. 

Scoop out the crumbs of some small milk rolls, fill them 
with game forcemeat, and bake on a buttered dish until quite 
firm, place them in a large soup-tureen, and add the necessary 
quantity of boiling clear stock. This soup must be served 
directly it is made, or the profit-rolls will dissolve. 

Quails and green peas. 

Prepare and truss your quails, cook them in a stew-pan 
lined with slices of veal and ham, season with carrots, onions, 
and a bouquet of mixed herbs, and cover with slices of bacon 
and a buttered sheet of paper ; place hot coals on the lid, and 
when done, dish up the quails, covered with green peas, 
which have been cooked separately, either in butter or veal 
stock. 

Truffle forcemeat. 

Peel your truffles, and warm them in butter; add some 
chopped mixed herbs, and about the same quantity of calfs 
udder or scraped bacon as there are truffles; pound in a 
mortar, season with salt and pepper, add some soaked bread- 
crumb, and the necessary quantity of yolks of egg. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 267 



SEPTEMBER 23. 

Potage Faubonne. Faubonne soup. 

Moules au gras. Stewed mussels. 

Perdreaux en escalopes. Scalloped partridges. 

Rosbif roti. Roast beef. 

Pommes de terre sautees. Fried potatoes. 

Gateau mille feuilles. Light pastry. 



Stewed mussels. 

Wash your mussels carefully, but do not leave in the water, 
or they lose much of their flavour ; warm them in a saucepan ; 
as soon as they open, take out the mussels, and reserve their 
liquor. Warm some button mushrooms in melted bacon, stir 
in a little flour, moisten with reduced stock, season with a 
bouquet of mixed herbs and pepper ; when done, clear ofl" all 
grease, add the mussels and a little of their liquor, and serve 
when quite hot. 

Scalloped partridgres. 

Scallop the fillets of four partridges, toss them in a saucepan 
with some butter until firm ; drain the scallops, remove the 
butter, and replace it by three tablespoonsful of game stock and 
two tablespoonsful of German sauce; when boiling, add the 
scallops, and either sliced truffles or peeled mushrooms, a little 
fresh butter, and the juice of a lemon. Dish up the scallops 
in a circle, and fill the centre with the sauce. 

Sauce for all roasts. 

Take an anchovy, a tumblerful of red wine, a little gravy, a 
chopped eschalot, and the juice of a lemon; simmer until 
cooked, pass through a tammy, and add to the gravy of your 
roast. 



268 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 24. 

Potage au mouton. Mutton soup. 

Gigot de mouton bouilli sauce aux Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, 
dbres. 

Pate chaud de jp;odiveau. Hot forcemeat pie. 

Poulets rolls. Roast fowls. 

Choux de Bruxelles au beurre. Brussels sprouts with butter. 

Brioche ^ la creme. Brioche. 



Mutton soup. 

Place a leg of mutton in a stock-pot, cover it either with 
water or beef stock, add carrots, onions, turnips, leeks, celery, 
a head of clove, and a little powdered ginger ; simmer over a 
slow fire for five hours, skim all grease ofif the stock, pass 
through a tammy, and pour into a soup tureen, on to slices 
of stale bread, or crusts of bread, which have been dried in 
the oven. A few chopped sorrel leaved warmed in butter are 
sometimes added to this soup. 

Hot forcemeat pie. 

Line a plain mould, about six or seven inches deep, with 
paste, cover the bottom with a layer of forcemeat of fowl, and 
trufiles (see i8th of December), and fill the pie with mushrooms 
warmed in butter, sliced bottoms of artichokes, and quenelles 
made of the same forcemeat, cover with paste, moisten the 
edges so as to close up the pie tightly, glaze with yolks of ^^y 
and bake ; when done take off the cover, and add some strong 
gravy ; serve v^ry hot. 

Stuifed duck. 

Chop up the liver of the duck with the same quantity of 
bacon, season with chopped mixed herbs, trufiles cut into dice, 
and thicken with yolks of ^^y stuff* the duck with this, roast, 
and serve with Italian sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 269 



SEPTEMBER 25. 

Fotage au vermicelle. Vermicelli soup. 

Brochet en dauphin. Pike dressed like a dolphin. 

Oreilles de pore \ la Sainte-Mene- Pigs* ears ^ la Sainte-Menehould. 
hould. 

Fillet de boeuf r^ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Tomates farcies. Stuffed tomatoes. 

Pommes au riz. Stewed apples and rice. 



Pike dressed like a dolphin. 

Scale and clean out a fine pike, soak in olive oil with 
branches of mixed herbs, salt, and mixed herbs ; pass a skewer 
through its eyes and the centre of the body, to give it the 
appearance of a dolphin, having the head on one side and the 
tail on the other, place in a baking dish in the oven, and 
moisten with the oil in which it was soaked ; when done, serve 
with either anchovy or caper sauce. 

Pifir's ears a la Sainte-Menehould. 

Blanch, singe, and scrape the ears; when cold, dip into melted, 
butter, bread-crumb them twice, dip into beaten yolks of egg 
before bread-crumbing the second time ; bake in the oven ; when 
a good colour dish up, with r^moulade sauce. 

Fried oalTs feet. 

Boil the feet in water, cut up into small pieces, and soak for 
half an hour in vinegar, drain them, dip into batter, and fry; 
serve, garnished with fried parsley. 

Fritters. 

This name is given to all sorts of vegetables, fruit, and meat, 
when dipped in batter, and fried in either hot lard, or olive 
oil 



2 70 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 26. 

Potage puiee de navets aux croAtons. Puree of turnips with toast. 

Escalopes de homard. Lobster scallops. 

Ris de veau en papillotes. Sweet-breads in curl-papers. 

Gigot de chevreuil roti. Roast leg of roebuck. 

Chicoree au veloute. Puree of chicory with cream. 

Tartelettes \ la vanille. Vanilla tartlets. 



Sweet-breads in curl-papers. 

Blanch, trim, and braise your sweet-breads; when done, drain, 
and place on a dish, cover them with Duxelle sauce as soon as 
cold, fold each sweet-bread in two very thin slices of ham, and 
wrap up very carefully in oiled sheets of paper, broil on the 
gridiron, and when a good colour, serve them. 

Boast bustard. 

Pluck, draw, singe, and dress the bustard ; lard it with fine 
fillets of bacon, wrap up in a buttered sheet of paper, and roast. 
Cook the liver of the bird, and pound it, stir into a little of 
the dripping, season with salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon, 
and hand in a sauceboat. 

Stew. 

This name is given to all entries cooked with the following 
ingredients. Cut up some veal, which has been blanched in 
boiling water, into dice, do the same with some ham, onions, 
and carrots, toss in a saucepan with fresh butter over a quick 
fire, moisten with stock, and boil, skim occasionally, and when 
done, add whatever meat you wish to stew. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 271 



SEPTEMBER 27. ^ 

Potage brunoise. Brunoise soup. 

Rouelle de veau en thon. Pickled fillet of veal. 

Saute de b^casses k la proven9ale. Fillets of woodcock \ la proven9ale. 
Selle de mouton r6tie. Roast saddle of mutton. 

Haricots panaches sautes. French beans and haricots ^ la 

maltre d'h6tel. 
Petites patisseries. Light pastry. 



Pickled fillet of veal. 

Cut a thick round slice off a nice white leg of veal, and lard 
it with fine fillets of anchovy, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
soak in vinegar for eight or ten hours ; remove the piece of bone 
from the centre of the fillet, drain, and- dry in a cloth, sprinkle 
with flour, and fry over a slow fire in a little olive oil ; when 
done on both sides, dish up, squeeze the juice of a lemon into 
the frying-pan, stir well, and pour over the veal. 

Fillets of woodcock a la proven9ale. 

Fillet your woodcock, and soak in olive oil seasoned with 
salt, coarse black pepper, mixed spice, and a pounded head of 
garlic. Place the carcases in a stew-pan with some olive oil, a 
few parsley leaves, a head of garlic, six eschalots, a laurel leaf, 
and two cloves ; when brown, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a 
tumblerful of white wine, and three tumblersful of stock, reduce 
to half the quantity, and pass through a tammy. Toss the 
fillets of woodcock in warm oil ; when done, place round an 
entree dish with a fried sippet of bread between each one ; 
stir a little lemon- juice, and a few strips of lemon peel, into the 
sauce, and pour over the fillets. 



fi-ft THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 28. 

l\4ii^ de riz 4 la pur^e de pois. Par^ of peas and rice. 

Baibillon grille. Broiled barbel. 

Alooettes en salmis. Salmis of larks. 

Ropion de veau r6ti. Roast calf s kidney. 

Epinards au jus. Stewed ^inach. 

Tartelettes ^ la vanille. Vanilla tartlets. 



Salmis of larks. 

Roast your larks, cut off their heads, and draw them ; pound 
all the trail (except the gizzards) in a mortar with two or three 
of tfie larks, stir in a little stock, pass through a tammy, season 
with salt, coarse black pepper, and lemon-juice; warm the 
larks in this sauce, but do not let them boil, and serve garnished 
with sippets of fried bread. 



Battered efirgrs. 

Line the sides and bottom of a saucepan with fresh butter, 
break your eggs into it, add salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, cook over a slow fire, stir the whole time ; when done, 
sprinkle with lemon-juice, and serve. Do not let the eggs get 
too hard. Truffles, asparagus-heads, meat gravy, or jam, are 
often added to the eggs, in the latter case sugar must be used 
instead of salt and pepper. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



273 



SEPTEMBER 29. 



Potage ^ la puree de haricots. 
Cabillaud ^ la bechamel. 
Perdrix aux choux. 
Filet de boeuf roti. 
Cardons au gratin. 
Choux k la cr^me. 



Puree of haricot beans. 

Codfish k la bechamel. 

Partridge and cabbage. 

Roast fillet of beeh 

Baked cardoons and bread-crumbs. 

Choux or light batter cakes. 



Partridfires and cabbage. 

Truss two partridges, and brown them slightly in butter and 
flour; moisten with three tumblersful of stock, and season 
with a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a quarter of a pound of 
bacon. Boil some white cabbages and a pound of salt pork 
in water ; when the cabbages are nearly done, drain, and add 
them to the partridges, simmer for a few minutes, dish up the 
birds, cut the cabbages into quarters, place round the par- 
tridges, and garnish with saveloy and chipolata sausages cut 
iixto thin slices, and a little of the salt pork ; reduce the gravy, 
moisten with stock, and pour over the birds. 

Fried ram's kidneys. 

A ram's kidney is a most delicious morsel. Skin the 
kidneys, slice them, sprinkle with lemon-juice, cover with 
forcemeat, and fry until slightly crisp. 

Vegretable srravy for fast day. 

Brown some chopped carrots, turnips, onions, and celery in 
butter, moisten with liquor, in which either peas or haricot 
beans have been boiled, season with salt and pepper, pass 
through a tammy, and keep until required. 



274 THE i(i(i BILLS OF FARE. 



SEPTEMBER 30. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage de consomme de poisson. Clear fish soup. 

Queues de morue k Tanglaise. Salt cods' tails ^ I'anglaise. 

Timbale de nouilles. Timbale of German paste. 

Filets de saumon k la mayonnaise. Mayonnaise of fillets 01 salmon. 

Mac^doine de legumes bordure Mac^doine of vegetables and 

d'epinards. spinach. 

Beignets de raisins de Corinthe ^ la Currant fritters ^ la Dauphine. 
Dauphine. 



Salt cods' tails k I'Anfirlaise. 

Soak the tails for twenty-four hours, after which, boil in 
cold spring water ; as soon as the water boils over, skim, take 
the saucepan off the fire, and leave the fish in it for a quarter 
of an hour, with the lid on. Cut up a peeled lemon into dice, 
chop up some anchovies, parsley, chives, eschalots, and a small 
head of garlic ; warm the whole in a quarter of a pound of 
butter and the same quantity of olive oil, sprinkle with black 
pepper, and stir until cooked ; pour half of this sauce into a 
dish, add the cods' tails, garnish with fried sippets of bread, 
cover with the remainder of the sauce, sprinkle with grated 
crust of bread, and brown in the oven. 

• 

Currant fritters d la Dauphine. 

Wash and trim some fine bunches of currants, simmer them 
in clarified syrup for two minutes ; when cold, dip into batter, 
and fry in boiling lard. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 275 



OCTOBER I. 

Potageauriz. Rice soup."' 

Brochet 'a Teau de sel, sauce aux . Boiled pike with mussel sauce, 
moules. 

Civet de li^vre. Civet of hare. 

Poularde r6tie. Roast pullet. 

Macaroni k I'italienne. Maccaroni k I'italienne. 

Crodtes II Tabricot. Apricots ^ la normande. 



Civet of hare. 

Cut up a hare into joints, and brown in a saucepan with a 
quarter of a pound of butter, and half a pound of salt pork, 
which has been soaked in water ; when a good colour, add 
two large tablespoonsful of flour, a bottle of red wine, pepper, 
mixed spice, a bouquet of herbs, thyme, laurel leaves, an 
onion stuck with cloves, and no salt. Simmer for an hour 
and a half, shake the stew-pan occasionally, so that the sauce 
may not bum. Brown some young onions in butter, moisten 
with stock, add a pinch of sugar, and simmer until the sauce 
is reduced to a glaze. Trim two punnets of mushrooms, and 
add them to the civet ; when nearly done, remove the onion 
stuck with cloves, and the herbs, taste the sauce, and if neces- 
sary, add a little salt, and dish up ; loosen the glazed onions 
from the saucepan, with a little stock, and place them round 
the civet with the mushrooms. Some people thicken the 
sauce with the blood of the hare, and a little butter. 



T 2 



276 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



OCTOBER 2. 

Potage au pain. Bread soup. 

Piece de boeuf bouillie gamie a la Boiled beef a la flamande. 
flamande. 

Filets de soles ^ la parisienne. Fillets of sole a la parisieime. 

Grives rdties. Roast thrushes. 

Haricots blancs «n puree. Puree of white haricot beans. 

Gateau d'amandes massif. Almond cake. 



Boiled beef a la Flamande. 

Boil a rumpsteak in uncleared stock for four hours, after 
which, drain it, and place in a stew-pan, with two pints of 
mirepoix (see 4th of October) and a bottle of white wine; 
simmer for about two hours, dish up the beef, pass some of 
the sauce through a tammy, thicken with brown thickening, 
and pour over it. Garnish the steak " k la Flamande " (see 
7th of March). 

Almond cake. 

Blanch and pound two pounds of Jordan almonds, and half 
an ounce of bitter almonds, add some candied lemon peel, 
chopped angelica, dried orange flowers, a pinch of salt, two 
pounds of sugar, a quarter of a pound of potato-flour, twelve 
yolks of tgg, and five whole eggs, stir thoroughly together, 
and pour into a mould lined with buttered blotting-paper, 
bake in a slow oven, and serve, covered with whipped yolks of 
egg, mixed with almond milk. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 277 



OCTOBER 3. 

Potage Faubonne. ' Faubonne soup. 

Aloyau roti garni de pommes de Roast sirloin of beef and potatoes, 
terre. 

Faisans k la boh^mienne. Pheasants k la boh^mienne. 

Eperlans frits.,' Fried smelts. 

Celeri au jus. Stewed celety. 

Marmelade de peches. Peach marmalade. 



Pheasants a la Boh^mienne. 

Truss the pheasants, and stuff them with a forcemeat com- 
posed of chopped truffles, foie gras, salt, pepper, and mixed 
herbs. Stew the pheasants in mirepoix (see 4th of October), 
with a wine-glassful of Madeira ; when done, serve garnished 
with stewed truffles, foie gras, cockscombs, and cock's kidneys ; 
pass the sauce through a tammy, and pour over the birds. 

Sheep's liver a la m6nag:ere. 

Warm a sheep's liver cut into dice, in butter, season with 
salt, pepper, and a laurel leaf; when done, take out of the 
saucepan, and keep warm in the oven ; cook some chopped 
onions in the remainder of the butter ; when brown, moisten 
with stock, and stir in a little flour ; as soon as it boils, add 
the pieces of liver, stir well, thicken with two or three yolks of 
^gg^ flavour with either lemon-juice or a few drops of vinegar, 
and serve. 

Peach marmalade. 

Peel and stone some ripe autumn peaches, lay them in 
layers in a deep dish, thickly covered with powdered sugar, 
and leave in a cool place for twelve or fifteen hours. Boil 
them in a preserving-pan, allowing a pound of sugar for every 
pound of peaches ; when done, pass through a tammy. Crack 
the stones, peel the kernels of a few of them, and boil in 
syrup ; add to the marmalade, and serve when cold. 



278 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



OCTOBER 4. 

Potage k la GouflK. Tapioca soup ^ la Gouffe. 

Filets de sole k la Joinville, Fillets of sole k la Joinville. 

Ailerons de dindon k la pur^e de Turkey pinions with purde of 

marrons. chestnuts. 

Filet de boeuf rotL Roast fillet of beef. 

Celeris au jus. Stewed celery. 

Darioles au cafe. Duchess cakes flavoured with 

coffee. 

Tapioca soap a la Gouffe. 

Make some tapioca soup (see 14th of January), and pour 
into a soup-tureen on to fillets of truffle, chicken, and pickled 
tongue. 

Fillets of sole a la Joinville. 

Toss the fillets in a saucepan with butter \ when done, place 
round a dish, and fill the centre with boiled shrimps and 
minced truffles, cover with German sauce, to which you have 
added a little shrimp butter. 

Turkey pinions with puree of chestnuts. 

Remove the large bones from the pinions, blanch them, and 
cook in mirepoix ; when done, place round an entrde dish, 
fill the centre with a purde of chestnuts, and serve. Clear the 
sauce of all grease, pass through a tammy, reduce, and hand 
in a sauceboat. 

Mirepoix. 

This sauce can be made for either feast or fast days ; for the 
former, take some chopped veal, ham, bacon, carrots, and 
onions, season with salt, pepper, laurel leaves, and chopped 
eschalots ; simmer over a slow fire for two hours, moisten with 
white wine and stock, pass through a tammy, season with salt 
and pepper, and keep in a jar until required. For fast days, 
leave out the stock, veal, ham, and bacon. Crayfish are de- 
licious when boiled in *' mirepoix for fast day," flavoured with 
either lemon-juice or vinegar.. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 279 



OCTOBER 5. 

Puree de carrotes aux nouilles. Pur^e of carrots with German 

paste. 
Escalopes de homard. Lobster scallops ^ la parisienne. 

Canards aux olives. Stewed duck and olives. 

Gigot r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Haricots panaches sautes. French beans and haricots ^ la 

mattre d'h6tel. 
Dvunpling ferme. Currant dumplings. 



Stewed duck and olives. • 

Warm your duck in a stew-pan with butter \ when a good 
colour, remove the duck, stir some flour and stock into the 
butter ; as soon as it boils, pass through a tammy, and replace 
in the stew-pan with the duck; season with a bouquet of 
mixed herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, salt and pepper; 
simmer for an hour, add some olives which have been soaked 
and stoned, boil for a few minutes, and dish up the duck and 
olives ; clear all grease off the sauce, and pour over them. 
Stewed ducks can also be garnished with celery cooked in 
stock. 

Lobster scallops a la Parisienne. 

Scallop either the tail of a lobster or sea crayfish, which has 
been boiled in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), warm in 
melted butter, and place round an entr& dish, fill the centre 
with the following ingredients : — Warm some eel quenelles (see 
fish quenelles), oysters, and mushrooms in Parisian sauce, and 
use to garnish the lobster scallops. 



28o THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 6. 

Potage pur^e de navels aux Puree of turnips and fried toast, 
croiitons. 

Grenadine de filet de boeuf 4 la Slices of fillet of beef ^ la 

financiere. financi^re. 

Rougets en caisse. Red mullet in cases. 

Perdreaux r6tis. Roast partridges. 

Aubei^nes farcies. Stuffed egg-plant 

Beignets de pommes. Apple fritters. 

Slices of fillet of beef a la financiere. 

* Cut a fillet of beef into scallops, the shape of a dried pear, 
lard them with fine fillets of bacon, and cook in mirepoix (see 
4th of October), flavoured with Madeira, when done, arrange 
round an entrde dish, and fill the centre with financiere garnish 
(see 27 th of December), reduce the sauce in which the beef 
was cooked, pass through a tammy, and add to the garnish. 

Chickens a la Cbivry. 

Truss your chickens, cover them with slices of bacon, and 
simmer over a slow fire in mirepoix ; when done, remove 
the bacon, and dish up the chickens, covered with ravigote 
sauce. 

stuffed efiTfir-plants. 

Divide the egg-plants lengthways, make several lozenge- 
shaped incisions in the centre of the vegetable, but be careful 
not to cut the skin, sprinkle with salt, soak in water for half 
an hour, drain, squeeze out all water, scoop out the centres, 
and lay them on a tin dish, which has been sprinkled with 
olive oil. Scoop out the centres of some egg-plants, which 
have been soaked and drained, chop them up with mixed 
herbs, salt and pepper, stir in a little thin brown thickening 
and olive oil, warm for a few minutes, fill the empty egg-plants 
with this stuffing, place them in the tin dish, sprinkle with 
grated bread-crust, brown in the oven or with a salamander, 
and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 281 



OCTOBER 7. 

Potage consomm^ au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

Cabillaud k la hollandaise. Salt cod ^ la hollandaise. 

C6telettes d'agneau sautes aux Lamb cutlets and French beans, 
haricots verts. 

Rdble de li^vre r6ti. Roast baron of hare. 

Artichauts farcis. Stuffed artichokes. 

Bavarois ^ la vanille. Bavarian vanilla cream. 



Lamb outlets and French beans. 

Trim your cutlets, toss them in a saucepan with fresh butter ; 
when done, place then round an entrde dish, and fill the centre 
with boiled French beans, to which you have added some 
bechamel sauce. 

Thmslies h, la paysanne. 

Pluck, pick, truss the thrushes and pass a thin skewer 
through them, fix on to the spit, and roast. Wrap up a lump 
of fat bacon in a sheet of paper, set fire to it, and hold over 
the birds with a skewer or iron fork until all the bacon is 
melted; sprinkle the thrushes with salt and bread-crumbs. 
Spread some chopped eschalots on a dish, add salt, pepper, a 
little gravy or water, a lump of butter, the juice of a lemon 
and a few drops of vinegar ; place the thrushes on this, and 
serve very hot. 

Stuifed artichokes. 

Trim and blanch your artichokes, cut out the chokes, and 

fill them with a stuffing composed of chopped beef, parsley, 

and chives ; cook, in a stew-pan, lined with slices of bacon, 

moisten with olive oil, to which you have added some chopped 

' mixed herbs, a little lemon-juice, and serve. 



282 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 8. 



Potage croiite au pot. 

Bar sauce aux crevettes. 

Carbonade de mouton ^ 

nivemaise. 

Gigot de chevreuil r6ti. 

Cardons aii jus. 
Peches \ la Richelieu. 



la 



Soup with gravy crusts. 

Bass, shrimp sauce. 

Boned loin of mutton ^ la 

nivemaise. 

Roast leg of roebuck. 

Stewed cardoons. 
Peaches \ la Richelieu. 



Boned loin of mntton d la Nivemaise. 

Bone a loin of mutton, lard it, and stew in mirepoix, mixed 
with either beef or veal stock ; when done, place on a dish ; 
pass through a tammy, reduce and pour over the mutton; 
garnish with either stewed carrots or a purde of sorrel, chicory, 
or artichoke. 

Stewed oardoons. 

Cut the white ends of the cardoons into equal lengths, 
blanch them in boiling water, soak in cold water ; when cool, 
dry, scrape, and clean them thoroughly, drain and cook in a 
stew-pan, lined with slices of bacon, ham, carrots, two heads 
of cloves, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; cover the cardoons 
with slices of lemon and bacon, moisten with water, sprinkle 
with salt, and as soon as the water boils, stir in a lump of 
butter mixed with flour; when done, drain the cardoons. 
Stir a little gravy and beef marrow, which have been melted 
in a bain-marie into some brown thickening, simmer the car- 
doons in this sauce for ten minutes, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 283 



OCTOBER 9. 

Potage au pain. Bread soup. 

Pi^ce de boeuf gamie de petits Boiled beef with meat patties, 
pdtls. 

Pomet saute. Brown fricassee of fowl. 

Li^vre en daube. Cold stewed hare. 

Salade de Ideumes. Vegetable salad. 

Pommes au beurre. Stewed apples. 



Gold stewed hare. 

Bone your hare, pound the bones and head in a mortar, 
and simmer for an hour and a half in equal quantities of stock 
and white wine, with a knuckle of veal cut into dice, sliced 
onions and carrots, salt, pepper, and a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, and pass through a tammy. Line an earthenware jar 
with slices of bacon, add the boned hare, sprinkle it with 
chopped salt pork and veal, season with salt, pepper and 
mixed spice, moisten with the stock made from the bones, 
cover with slices of bacon, bake in a slow oven ; when done, 
taste, in case it requires more seasoning, and serve when cold, 
in the jar in which it was baked. 

Brown fricassee of fowl. 

Cut up a fowl into joints, toss in a saucepan with butter, 
stir in a little flour, moisten with white wine and strong stock, 
season with salt, pepper, and chopped mushrooms and parsley, 
simmer until the sauce is reduced, skim off all grease, and 
serve. 

Eschalot sauce. 

Boil five or six finely-minced eschalots in a cupful of stock, 
and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, season with salt and pepper, 
and pour into a sauceboat when done. 



«84 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage au potiron. Leek soup. 

Carpe a la Chambord. Carp k la Chambord. 

CEufs farcis. Stuffed eggs. 

Estuigeon r6ti. Roast stuigeon. 

Salsifis frits. Fried salsifis. 

Giteau de riz. Rice cake. 



Boast slice of stnrgreon. 

Either butter or oil a large sheet of paper, cover it with 
slices of onions, carrots, salt, pepper, chopped laurel leaves, 
thyme, and parsley ; skin a slice of sturgeon, fold it up in this 
paper, cover it with a second sheet of paper, also oiled, and 
roast it on the spit before a slow fire ; when done, remove the 
paper and dish up, covered with piquante sauce for fast day. 

Fried salsifis. 

Scrape the salsifis, cut off the heads, and soak in vinegar 
and water. Stir a quarter of a pound of flour into three quarts 
of water, stir over the fire until it boils, add the salsifis, season 
with salt, pepper, and a wine-glassful of vinegar ; when done, 
leave until cold, after which cut up the salsifis into equal 
lengths, and lay them in a deep dish, with a tablespoonfiil of 
olive oil, the same quantity of vinegar, salt and pepper ; drain, 
and dry them with a cloth, dip into batter, and fry in boiling 
lard : when a good colour, drain them, dry with a cloth, and 
dish up in a pyramid, garnished with fried parsley. 



\ 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 28S 



OCTOBER II. 

Potage aux ceufs poches. Clear soup with poached eggs. 
CAtes de boeuf brais^es. Braised ribs of beef. 

Casserole au riz gamie de ris Rice and lamb's sweet-bread, 
d'agneau. 
Ortolans r6tis. Roast ortolans. 

Friture m61^e \ Titalienne. Italian fry. 

Meringues k la cr^me. Meringues and cream. 



Bioe and lamb's sweet-bread. 

Boil your rice, pound it, and pour into a well-buttered 
mould, brown in the oven \ scoop out a hole in the centre, and 
fill it with lamb's sweet-breads, which have been cooked in 
German sauce, and cockscombs also cooked in the same sauce. 
This dish can also be made with scalloped rabbit, or any kind 
of purde, garnished with stewed mushrooms and truffles, 

Italian fry. 

This fry is an odd medley, and is composed of the following 
ingredients, which must all be dipped into batter, fried in lard, 
and served in the same dish. Ram's kidneys, which have been 
soaked in salt water, pieces of bread, tendons of veal, calf s 
brains, sweet-breads, rice croquettes, pieces of cauliflower, egg- 
plant, anchovies, and artichokes. Be very careful that they are 
all quite fresh. 



286 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 12. 

Potage \ la semoule lie. Semolina soup. 

Cabillaud sauce aux capres. Salt cod with caper sauce. 

Chaufroix de perdreaux. Cold glazed fillets of partridges. 

Gigot d'agneau roti. Roast 1^ of lamb. 

Cardons au gras. Cardooons for feast day. 

Gelee au jus de grenades. Pomegranate jelly. 



Cold firla^ed fillets of paxtrid^e. 

Roa$t your paxtridges, fillet them ; pound all the meat off 
the carcases in a mortar with truffles and mushrooms ; simmer 
the bones in a tumblerful of white wine, season with truffle 
trimmings, eschalots, and a laurel leaf; leave on the fire until 
reduced to about three quarters the quantity, squeeze through 
a cloth, add two tablespoonsful of clear stock to it, stir half of 
this sauce into the pounded meat, mix it thoroughly with a 
wooden spoon in a saucepan until it boils, pass through a 
tammy, and leave until cold. Place the fillets round an entree 
dish with slices of truffle, cut the same shape, between each 
one, fill the centre with the purde, cover the whole with the 
remainder of the sauce, and garnish round with clear meat 
jelly. 

Gardoons for feast day. 

Prepare the same as cardoons for feast day (see 7th of 
December), with the exception of using rich white veal sauce 
instead of cream sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 287 



OCTOBER 13. 

Potage de riz ^ la puree de pois. Puree of peas and rice. 

Petits pat^s k la reine. Small patties k la reine. 

Barbue aux fines herbes. Brill with mixed herbs. 

Civet de chevreuil. Civet of roebuck. 

Poularde rotie. Roast pullet. 

Chicor^e ^ la cr^me. Puree of chicory and cream. 

Timbale de poires. Timbale of pears. 



Small patties d la reine. 

Roll some light paste five times, keep it about half an inch 
thick, cut out some very small patties, glaze with yolk of t%%^ 
and bake ; when done, scoop out the centres, and fill with 
finely-chopped breasts of chicken, which have been cooked in 
rich bechamel sauce ; replace the patty covers, and serve very 
hot This is a very elegant side dish. 

Italian sauce." 

Simmer a lump of butter as big as two eggs in a saucepan, 
with two tablespoonsful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful 
of chopped eschalots, and the same quantity of minced mush- 
rooms, add a bottle of white wine ; reduce the sauce, and 
moisten with a tumblerful of veloutd sauce and half a tumbler- 
ful of stock ; boil over a quick fire, skim off all grease, and as 
soon as the sauce is thick enough, take off the fire, and keep 
warm in a bain-marie. 

Italian sauce is one of the fundamental sauces of modern 
cookery. 



288 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 14. 

Potage k la fran9aise. French soup. 

Boeuf bomlli garni de nouilles. Boiled beef garnished with German 

paste. 

Cailles aux laitues. Stewed quails and lettuce. 

Brochet au bleu. Pickled pike. 

Omelette aux pointes d'asperges. Asparagus omelet. 

Pommes glac^es au four. BakS apples. 



Boiled beef firamislied with German paste. 

Prepare the beef in the same manner as boiled beef k la 
Flamande (see 2nd of October). Prepare some quenelles of 
German paste (see 28th of October), poach them in stock, 
drain, place them round the beef, and garnish with chopped 
boiled ham, grated Parmesan cheese, and meat glaze. 

stewed quails and lettuce. 

Truss the quails and place them in a stewing-pan lined with 
slices of ham and bacon ; add some chopped veal, a head of 
clove, an onion, a laurel leaf, a carrot, and a bouquet of 
parsley, moisten with stock and a little white wine ; cover the 
birds with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper ; when 
done, serve them garnished with lettuces which have been 
blanched in veal stock and warmed in the liquor in which the 
quails were cooked. 

Black butter sauce. 

Warm some butter in a frying-pan until a dark brown 
colour, pour into a bowl, and leave until cold ; cook a little 
vinegar in the same frying-pan, reduce, and add to the cold 
brown butter \ warm in a saucepan, season with salt and pepper, 
and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 289 



OCTOBER 15. 

Potage aux ceufs poch^s. Clear soup with poached eggs. 
Esturgeon braise. Braised slice of sturgeon. 

Cotelettes de sanglier k la Saint- Boar cutlets ^ la Saint-Hubert. 
Hubert 
Mauviettes r6ties. Roast larks. 

Cro^te aux champignons. Mushrooms on toast. 

Compote de poires. Comp6te of pears. 



Braised slice of sturffeon* 

Lard a thick slice of sturgeon, and place in a braising-pan 
with scraped bacon, slices of onion, minced carrots, and par- 
snips, salt, pepper, mixed spice, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and 
some white wine ; cook over a quick fire, and serve, covered 
with piquante sauce, to which you have added some of the 
liquor in which the sturgeon was cooked 

ICuslirooms on toast. 

Blanch your mushrooms in vinegar and water, drain them, 
and warm in hot melted butter over a quick fire, stir in a little 
flour and a few drops of stock, season with salt, pepper, and 
a chopped head of garlic, and parsley ; let it boil over two 
or three times, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, flavour 
with lemon juice, and dish up on baked buttered bread- 
crusts. 

Compote of pears. 

Stew your pears in clarified syrup, flavour with strips of 
lemon peel, and colour the sugar with cochineal Serve cold, 
in a glass dish. 



u 



290 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 16. 

Purfo de pommes de terre ^ la Puree of potatoes with chervil 

chifTonnade de cerfeuil. leaves. 

Jambon aux epinards. Ham and spinach. 

Timbale ^ la champenoise. Timbale i la champenoise. 

Eperlans ou goujons frits. Fried smelts or gudgeon. 

Artichauts k Titalienne. Artichokes ^ Titalienne. 

Talmouses sans fromage. Threie-comered custard puffs. 



I^amb outlet! with a pur^e of cardoonB. 

Trim and bread-crumb your cutletSj grill them, and place 
round an entrde dish, fill the centres with a purine of cardoons. 

Timbale a la Champenoise. 

Simmer a nice slice of ham in a saucepan until nearly done, 
cut it up into small dice, and replace in the saucepan with 
chopped mushrooms, two or three truffles, a boiled carrot, a 
lump of butter, and a little flour; moisten with stock and white 
wine, reduce, clear off all grease, add some chopped cold roast 
breasts of chickens, blanched gherkins, parsley, and anchovies, 
which have been soaked in water ; wann over a slow fire — be 
careful they do not boil — and when done, pour into a mould 
lined with light paste, bake, turn out of the mould and serve 
very hot. 

Three-cornered custard puffs. 

Stir some eggs into light batter paste (see 4th of May), 
without making it too thin, and add a little frangipane. Cut 
out some light paste into rounds about five inches in diameter, 
lay some of the liquid batter on each piece, fold up into three- 
cornered puffs, bake in a quick oven, and serve very hot. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 291 



OCTOBER 17. 

Potage croflte au pot. Soup with gravy crusts. 

Petit sal^ garni de Idgumes. Boiled salt pork and vegetables. 

Marinade de pieds de veau. Fried calfs feet. 

Rdbles de li^vre rotis, sauce Roast baron of hare, poivrade 

poivrade. sauce. 

Perdreaux en souffle. Souffle of partridges. 

Pouding de cabinet. Cabinet pudding. 



Souffle of partrldfires. 

Skin several cold roast partridges, cut all the meat off them, 
and pound in a mortar with the livers of the birds, warm in 
a saucepan with a little reduced stock, and pass through a 
tammy. Break up the carcases, warm them in brown thicken- 
ing and stock, reduce until nearly a glaze ; add the purde of 
partridge, with a lump of fresh butter, a pinch of grated nut- 
meg, four yolks of ^g%, and two whipped whites of egg, which 
stir in gradually ; pour into a souffld dish or large paper case, 
and bake, as soon as the souffle has risen sufficiently, serve it 
or it will spoil. 

Roast fifir-peckers. 

■ 

Do not draw the birds, only cut out the gizzards and place 
the heads in the hole you have cut ; cover them with slices of 
bacon, and roast before a quick fire for ten or twelve minutes ; 
sprinkle with salt and dish up on slices of fried bread. 



u 2 



M^i THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 18. 

Potage \ la pui^e de gibier. Pur^ of game. 

Soles en matelote normande. Soles k la nonnande. 

Entre-cotes de boeuf k la bordelaise. Ribs of beef ^ la bordelaise. 

Petits oiseaux rotis ^ ritalienne. Small birds roasted k Titalienne. 

Celeri au jus. ' Stewed celery. 

Blanc-manger aux pistaches. Pistachio nut blanc-mange. 



Par6e of sranie. 

Boil some partridges, rabbits, and a knuckle of veal in a 
stock-pot with stock ; as soon as it boils, add some carrots, 
onions, and celery ; when the game is thoroughly cooked, pull 
all the meat off the bones, and pound in a mortar with some 
crumb of bread which has been soaked in the stock ; pass 
through a tammy, moisten the pur6e with some of the stock in 
which the game was boiled, and warm for a few minutes 
without letting it boil. Pour into a soup-tureen on to fried 
bread. 

Bibs of beef k la bordelaise. 

Cut the ribs into slices about two inches thick, beat them, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, dip into olive oil, and grilL 
Serve, covered with bordelaise sauce and garnished with pieces 
of beef marrow, which have been blanched and glazed in meat 
glaze. 

Small birds roasted £k ritalienne. 

Wrap up the birds in slices of bacon, and fix them on to a 
skewer with a thin slice of fried bread and an equally thin slice 
of fried ham between each bird ; roast before a quick fire, baste 
with melted butter, and when they have been on the spit a 
few minutes, sprinkle them lightly with salt and bread-crumbs, 
moisten with melted butter, and dish up on the skewer. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 293 



OCTOBER 19. 

Potage aux queues de boeuf. Ox-tail soup. 

Rougets aux fines herbes. Red mullet stuffed with niixed 

herbs. 
Cotelettes de pr^-sald jardiniere. Southdown mutton cutlets \ la 

jardiniere. 
Gelinottes r6ties. Roast guinea-fowl. 

Chicoree au velout^. Pur^e of chicory and cream. 

Savarins k I'ananas. Savarin cake garnished with pine- 

apple. 



Oz-tail soup. 

Cut up two ox-tails into joints, blanch them for several 
minutes, drain, and simmer over a slow fire in a stew-pan lined 
with slices of ham, minced carrots and onions, a bouquet of 
mixed herbs, coarse black pepper and two heads of cloves \ 
moisten with a teacupful of stock, reduce to a glaze, 
add the necessary quantity of stock and a wine-glassful 
of Madeira ; when quite hot, pass through a tammy, clarify 
the soup with either minced raw beef or whites of egg ; skim 
off all grease, and pour into a stew-pan, add some pearl barley, 
strips of carrot and celery, which have been boiled separately, 
warm over a quick fire, place the pieces of ox-tail in a dish, 
cover with meat glaze, and hand with the soup. 

Boast ffuinea -fowls. 

Pluck, singe, and truss the guinea-fowls carefully, lard with 
fine fillets of bacon, roast before a good fire and baste fre- 
quently, serve garnished with watercress. 



294 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 20. 



MENU EN MAIGRE. 

Fotage \ la parisienne. 

Matelote d anguille. 

I Macaroni aux tomates. 

Soles frites. 

Croquettes de pommes de terre. 

Pommes au riz. 



BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Parisian soup. 

Stewed eel. 

Maccaroni and tomatoes. 

Fried soles. 

Potato croquettes. 

Stewed apples and rice. 



I 



Fried salt cod. 

Soak and boil a piece of salt cod, break it into small pieces, 
egg and bread-crumb them, repeat this, and fry mitil a good 
colour. Serve, garnished with fried parsley. 

Stewed roe for fast day. 

Simmer a small carp cut into pieces, in a saucepan with a 
little butter and sliced onions — be careful it does not bum — 
moisten with vegetable gravy for fast day (see 29th of Septem- 
ber), add a lump of butter, a bouquet of mixed herbs, a head 
of garlic, two heads of cloves, salt and pepper, leave on the 
fire for an hour ; pass the liquor through a tammy, cook the 
roe in it for a quarter of an hour, after which dish it up ; re- 
duce the sauce, thicken it with yolks of egg and cream, flavour 
with lemon juice, and pour over the roe. 

Potato croquettes. 

Boil some yellow potatoes in salt and water ; when three 
quarters done, place them in the oven or in hot cinders until 
cooked ; pass them through a tammy, and add some yolks of 
egg and butter to them ; roll into small long-shaped croquettes, 
egg and bread-crumb them, fry in hot lard or butter, and serve 
sprinkled with salt. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 295 



OCTOBER 21. 

Potage au pain. Bread soup. 

Boeuf bouilli sauce tomates. Boiled beef with tomato sauce. 

Bouchees de purde de volaille. Small chicken patties. 

Gigot r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Oiufs poch^s \ la pur^e de celeri. Poached ^gs with purde of celery. 

Blanc-manger a la vanille. Vanilla blanc-mange. 



Small cliicken patties. 

This is a very easy side-dish to prepare. Roll out some 
light paste until about an inch thick, leave for a few minutes ; 
after which, cut out your patties with a round bevelled tin- 
cutter about two and a half inches in diameter \ cut out 
the patty covers with a smaller cutter, and bake for twenty 
minutes ; scoop out the centre of the patties, fill them with 
either a pur& of fowl, oysters, lobster, shrimps, or forcemeat ; 
warm in the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot. 

Stewed duck and peas. 

Prepare the duck the same as stewed duck and olives (see 
5th of October), add some green peas to the stew about a 
quarter of an hour before taking off the fire, and serve. 

Ptir^e of cardoons. 

Blanch your cardoons, and boil in bechamel sauce ; when 
thoroughly done, skim off all grease, pass through a tammy, 
and add a little butter and cream to the pur^e. 



296 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 22. 



Potage aux pates d'ltalie. 

Ccx|uilles de moules. 

Haricot de mouton aux navets. 

Mauviettes roties. 

Artichauts k la barigoule. 

Parfait au cafe. 



Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Scalloped mussels. 

Haricot mutton with turnips. 

Roast larks. 

Stuffed artichokes ^ la barigoule. 

Bavarian coffee cream. 



Scalloped mussels. 

Wash the mussels, take them out of their shells, cut them 
in two, and warm in white thickening with a little of their 
liquor; stir in two or three yolks of egg, a lump of fresh 
butter, and some chopped parsley; when done, pour into 
scallop shells, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and brown in the 
oven or with a salamander. . 



Kromeskys. 

Chop up some breast of chicken, fillets of partridge or 
pheasant, truffles, foie gras, pickled tongue, and mushrooms ; 
warm in thick reduced Spanish sauce, and leave until cold. 
Flatten out some calf s udders, lay a dessert-spoonful of the 
forcemeat on each one, fold them over, dip into batter and 
plunge into boiling lard; when a good colour, drain the 
kromeskys, dish them up in a pyramid, and garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Boast larks. 

Pluck and singe the larks, but do not draw them, wrap each 
one in a slice of fresh bacon, fix them on to the spit with a 
skewer, and roast before a quick fire. Lay some slices of toast 
in the dripping-pan, and dish up the larks on them. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 297 



OCTOBER 23. 

Potage Faubonne. Fauboime soup. 

Vives a la maitre d'hdtel. Weavers a la maitre d'hotel 

Cotelettes de veau au champignons. Veal cutlets with puree of mush- 
rooms. 
Li^vre roti. Roast hare. 

Choux-fleurs au gratin. Baked cauliflower with bread- 

crumbs. 
Tartes aux fraises. Strawberry tartlets. 



Boast hare. 

Skin, draw, and trim your hare ; hold it over hot coals until 
the flesh is firm, lard it with fine fillets of bacon firom the neck 
to the thighs, roast it for an hour and a half, and dish up, 
covered with poivrade sauce, to which you have added the 
brains and liver of the hare, after pounding and passing them 
through a tammy. Hand red currant jelly separately. 

Weavers a la maitre d'hdtel. 

Cut some slits down the sides of the fish, soak in olive oil, 
with salt and parsley for an hour or two, after which, broil 
them, and dish up, covered with maitre d'hotel sauce. 

Bemoalade sauce. 

Chop up some parsley, chives, capers, anchovies, and a 
head of garlic, add a little mustard and salt, stir into olive oil, 
and beat until the sauce is quite thick. 

Veal cutlets with a ptir^e of mushrooms. 

Prepare the cutlets the same as veal cutlets " k la Gingarat " 
(see 5th of July), and dish up on a pur^e of mushrooms 



298 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 24. 

Potage ^ la puree d'oseille. Puree of sorrel. 

Aloyau brais^. Braised sirloin of beef. 

Barbillons frits. Fried barbel. 

Coq de bruy^re roti. Roast black-cock. 

Champignons au gratin. Baked mushrooms and bread- 
crumbs. 

Charlotte de pommes. Apple Charlotte. 



Boast blaok-oook. 

Choose some tender young birds, lard them with fine fillets 
of bacon, and roast. Serve, garnished with slices of lemon, 
and hand strong gravy in a sauceboat. 

Apple Charlotte. 

Peel a dozen fine russet apples, scoop out the cores, cut 
them up into small pieces, and stew in a preserving-pan with 
plenty of sugar, a little water, strips of lemon peel, and a 
small piece of cinnamon ; cook over a quick fire, stir occa- 
sionally, add a lump of very fi*esh butter, and remove the 
lemon peel and cinnamon as soon as the apples are done. 
Line a mould with slices of bread-crumb, which have been 
dipped into melted butter ; let each piece overlap the other, 
fill the centre with the stewed apples, and if fancied, add a 
little apricot, cherr}'-, or gooseberry jam, cover with a round 
slice of bread-crumb, also moistened in melted butter ; place 
the mould in a saucepan until warm — be careful the bread 
does not burn — ^after which, bake in the oven, when a pretty 
golden colour, turn out of the mould, and serve very hot. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 299 



OCTOBER 25. 

Potage \ I'oseille. Sorrel soup. 

Gigot de sept heures. Boiled leg of mutton with vegetables. 

Filets de maquereaux, sauce tartare. Fillets of mackerel, tartare sauce. 

B^casses roties. Roast woodcock. 

Choux-fleurs au beurre. Cauliflower and butter. 

Darioles. Duchess cakes. 



Boiled lesr of mutton and vesretables. 

Bone your leg of mutton, and brown it in a stew-pan with 
some butter ; when a good colour, moisten with a little water, 
add two or three heads of garlic, five onions, two carrots, and 
salt; simmer over a slow fire for six or seven hours, after 
which, clear all grease off the sauce, thicken with potato-flour, 
and pour over the mutton ; dish it up on a pur& of chicory, 
haricot beans, or chestnuts. 

Fried sole. 

Soak your sole for half an hour in white wine, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and chopped herbs ; cut a slit down its 
back, slightly raise the fillets from the bone ; soak in milk for 
a few minutes, sprinkle with flour, and fry in lard or butter ; 
serve, garnished with slices of lemon and fried parsley. 

Ortolans or flgr-peokers in oases. 

Line some small cases with perigueux sauce, and place a 
bird in each one, after cutting out their gizzards and placing 
their heads in the hole which you have made \ cook in a quick 
oven or with a very hot salamander \ before serving, moisten 
with a few drops of perigueux sauce. 



300 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 26. 

Potage aux lazagnes. Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Filets de merlans ^ la Orly. Fillets of whiting ^ la Orly. 

jPerdrix braisees. Braised partridges. 

Rosbif roti. Roast beef. 

Salsifis sautes au beurre. Salsifis cooked in butter. 

Gelee au kirsch. Kirsch jelly. 



Fillets of wMtingr k la Orly. 

Fillet the whiting and soak for an hour in either lemon 
juice or vinegar, with salt, parsley, and sliced onions ; when 
nearly time to serve them, either sprinkle with flour or dip 
into batter, plunge into boiling lard; when a good colour, 
dry them in a cloth, and dish up, covered with Italian tomato 
sauce. 



Braised partridsres. 

Pluck, draw, and singe the partridges ; truss them, lard with 
thick fillets of bacon, sprinkle with minced veal, and wrap up 
in slices of bacon, braise (see 28th of May) for an hour over 
a slow fire; when done, dish up the birds, pass the sauce 
through a tammy, skim off all grease, flavour with the juice of 
a lemon, and pour over the partridges. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 301 



OCTOBER 27. 

Consomm^ au riz. Clear soup and rice. 

Filets de dorade aux fines herbes. Fillets of gold fish with mixed herbs. 

Grives ^ Teau-de-vie. Thrushes cooked in brandy. 

Rognon de veau roti. Roast calfs kidney. 

Macaroni au gratin. Baked maccaroni cheese with bread- 
crumbs. 

Meringues k la cr^me. Meringues and cream. 



Thrashes cooked in brandy. 

Pluck, singe, and truss your thrushes; flatten them, and 
warm in a stew-pan, with a little melted bacon fat, a bouquet 
of mixed herbs, two onions, mushrooms, and truffles ; as soon 
as they begin to colour, add two tumblersful of brandy, and 
toss over a quick fire until the brandy is in flames ; as soon as 
it goes out, moisten with gravy, and simmer over a slow fire ; 
when the birds are done, clear the sauce of all grease, season 
it if necessary ; add the juice of a lemon, and serve on a hot 
plated dish. 

Perlfiraeox sauce. 

Chop up some lean ham, an onion and an eschalot, brown 
in butter ; when a good colour, moisten with white wine, and 
reduce ; add some brown thickening, a few strips of truffles, 
and the same quantity of reduced stock as there is sauce; 
simmer until quite thick, pass through a tammy, and add some 
slices of boiled truffles before serving. 



302 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 28. 

Potage aux nouilles. Clear soup with German paste. 

Maquereaux bouillis sauce aux Boiled mackerel and mussel sauce, 
moules. 

Langue de bceuf en papillote. Slices of tongue in cases. 

Poularde r&tie. Roast pullet. 

Celeri-rave ^ la sauce blanche. Celery roots with white sauce. 

Gel^e au jus de grenades gamie. Pomegranate jelly. 



Gherman paste. 

Make a well in the centre of a pint of flour, and fill it nidth 
three or four eggs, a little salt, a lump of butter the size of a 
walnut, and some water; work the paste thoroughly, roll it 
out twice, divide it into four portions, cut them into pieces 
about two inches long, sprinkle with flour, cut into very fine 
strips of equal size, spread out on a sheet of paper for an hour, 
turn them occasionally so that they may get perfectly dry, 
poach in boiling salt and water for seven or eight minutes, 
drain, and place in a tammy until dry. This paste is generally 
served with clear soup. 



Slices of tonsrue in cases. 

Braise an ox-tongue, cut it up into thick slices, cover them 
with slices of bacon sprinkled with chopped herbs ; wrap up 
carefully in oiled sheets of paper so that no gravy may escape, 
boil for a few minutes on the gridiron, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 303 



OCTOBER 29. 

Potage de riz ^ la pur^ de pois Pur^e of green peas and rice, 

verts. 

Cabillaud bouilli, sauce crevettes. Boiled cod, shrimp sauce. 

Jambon it la maillot. Boiled ham ^ la maillot. 

Pat^ de b^casses. Woodcock pie, 

Ecrevisses en buisson. Crayfish. 

Bombes glac^es. Iced bomb. 



Boiled ham k la Maillot. 

Soak your ham for twelve hours, wrap it up in a cloth, and 
boil it in water ; when done, place in a braising-pan with a 
bottle of Madeira or anjr kind of dry white wine, and simmer 
for half an hour ; serve, garnished with carrots, onions, lettuces, 
turnips, and French beans, which have been boiled in a separate 
saucepan. Cover the whole with Madeira sauce. 

• 

Woodcock pie. 

Bone and draw your birds, and fill them with a stuffing 
made of their trail and equal quantities of veal and bacon, salt, 
pepper, and chopped herbs, all well pounded together. Line 
a plain mould with paste, cover the bottom with a layer of the 
stuffing, and some slices of truffle ; add the woodcock, fill up 
all interstices with forcemeat and chopped truffles ; cover over 
with a piece of paste, glaze with yolk of egg, and make a small 
hole in the centre; bake, and when done, pour in a little 
reduced gravy through the hole in the paste, turn out of the 
mould, and serve either hot or cold. 



304 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



OCTOBER 30. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage de riz ^ la puree de navets. Pur^e of turnips with rice. 

Coquilles de laitances de carpes. Scalloped carp's roe. 

Pat^ de turbot. Turbot pie. 

Mayonnaise de tanches. Tench Mayonnaise. 

Tomates farcies. Stuffed tomatoes. 

Cr^me au citron. Lemon cream. 



Scalloped carp's roe. 

Trim and blanch the roe, boil in salt and water, with a little 
vinegar ; when done, cut up into dice, and simmer for a few 
minutes in white thickening, moisten with a little water in 
which mushrooms have been boiled, and white wine ; season 
with salt, pepper, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; as soon as the 
sauce thickens, add some sliced boiled mushrooms and cray- 
fish tails ; when done, remove the bouquet of herbs, stir in a 
lump of butter, and pour into scallop shells \ sprinkle with 
grated fried bread, brown in the oven, and serve. 

Turbot pie. 

Trim the turbot, parboil it, and season the water with salt, 
pepper, cloves, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and some chopped 
herbs. Line a large pie dish with paste, add the turbot 
garnish it with slices of hard-boiled eggs, a finely-chopped 
onion, and plenty of fi-esh butter ; cover over with paste, and 
bake. Serve either hot or cold. 

Bordelaise sauce. 

Moisten some brown thickening with equal quantities of 
stock and white wine, season with chopped eschalots, parsley, 
salt and pepper ; reduce for a few minutes, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 305 



OCTOBER 31. 

Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

C6te de boeuf brais^e. Braised ribs of beef. 

Poulet saute. Brown fricassee of fowl. 

Eperlans frits. Fried smelts. 

Salade russe. Russian salad. 

Pommes meringu^es. Meringue of apples. 



Stuffed tomatoes. 

Dip your tomatoes into boiling water, and peel them, scoop 
out the centres with a small spoon, and place the tomatoes 
on a tin dish. Take a lump of butter mixed with flour, a little 
mushroom liquor, thick purfe of tomato, olive oil, chopped 
parsley, and eschalots, salt and pepper, stir in a saucepan until 
quite hot, and thoroughly mixed ; fill each tomato with some 
of this stuffing, sprinkle them with grated bread-crust ; pour a 
few spoonsful of olive oil into the dish, and bake for ten or 
twelve minutes ; if not quite done, brown with a salamander. 

Bussian salad. 

Chop up some cold fillets of chicken and partridge, 
with carrots, turnips and asparagus, all of which have been 
cooked; take $ome cold boiled green peas, small French 
beans, beetroot cut into lozenges, crayfish tails, capers, stoned 
olives, and fillets of anchovy ; stir all these ingredients thoroughly 
together, and add a little caviare, a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
a chopped eschalot, black pepper, mustard,- oil, and vinegar. 
If skilfully prepared, no particular flavour ought to predomi- 
nate in this highly seasoned salad. 



3o6 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER i. 

Potage aux oeufs poches. Clear soup with poached eggs. 

Rosbif ^ I'anglaise. Roast beef. 

Timbale de macaroni. Timbale of maccaronL 

Cailles roties. Roast quail. 

Tomates farcies. * Stuffed tomatoes. 

Omelette soufflee. Omelet souffle. 



Timbale of maocaroni. 

Cook your maccaroni in boiling water, and season with an 
onion stuck with cloves, salt, and a few slices of carrot ; when 
done, drain, and warm in a saucepan, with strong gravy, equal 
quantities of grated Gruyfere and Parmesan cheese, a very little 
grated household cheese, and some minced fricassfe, or roast 
breast of chicken ; pour into a mould lined with light paste, 
cover with a round piece of the same paste, with a small hole 
in the centre ; when done, moisten with a little meat gravy, 
turn out of the mould, and serve. 

Omelet souffle. 

Break open five eggs, and keep the yolks separate from the 
whites. Stir four ounces of powdered sugar, a few pounded 
maccaroons, candied orange flowers, and a pinch of salt, into 
the yolks 3 whip the whites, add to the yolks, and pour into a 
deep dish lined with butter ; bake in a moderate oven, and 
serve directly it is cooked. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 307 



NOVEMBER 2. 

* 

Potage Solferino. Solferino soup. 

Barbue sauce aux huitres. Brill with oyster sauce. 

Poitrine de veau farcie. Stuffed calf's breast. 

Gigot de chevreuil roti. Roast leg of roebuck. 

Laitues nu jus. Stewed lettuce. 

Blanc-manger. Blanc-mange. 



Blano-mangre. 

Wash, blanch, and pound a pound of Jordan almonds, and 
half a dozen bitter almonds, add some lemon peel, moisten 
occasionally with cold water, and continue to pound until a 
smooth, thick paste, squeeze through a cloth five or six times, 
adding a tumbler of cold water each time ; stir the milk of 
almonds into three quarters of a pound of lump sugar; as soon 
as the sugar is dissolved, pass through a silk tammy, add an 
ounce of gelatine, which has been melted in three wine-glasses- 
ful of boiling water, stir thoroughly together ; flavour with either 
orange-flower water, lemon, or vanilla; pour into a mould, 
place in the refrigerator ; when set, turn out of the mould, and 
serve. 

Compote of chestnuts. 

Boil your chestnuts in water; if they colour it very much, 
change the water ; when done peel them, and add to some hot 
syrup boiled to.the snap, leave on the fire for a few minutes, 
flavour with either orange-flower water or vanilla ; pour into a 
glass dish, and serve when cold. 



X 2 



3.o8 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 3. 

Potage au pain. Bread soup. 

Piece de bceuf bouilli, sauce raifort. Boiled beef with horse-radish sauce. 
Saute de filets de volaille a la Fillets of fowl k la cardinal. 

cardinal. 

Quartier de sanglier roti ^ la sauce Roast forequarter of boar, poivrade 
poivrade. sauce. 

Puree de mousserons. Puree of mushrooms. 

Pommes au beurre. Stewed apples. 



Fillets of fowl a la cardinal. 

Prepare in the same manner as " Fillets of chicken cooked 
in butter " (see 25th of December); when done, place round an 
entree dish, with a slice of truffle between each fillet ; fill the 
centre with German sauce, to which you have added some 
crayfish butter to make it red, and garnish the fillets with cray- 
fish tails. 

Puree of mTi8liroom.s. 

Trim and wash your mushrooms, blanch, drain, and mince 
them up as fine as possible, warm in a saucepan, with a little 
butter, and the juice of a lemon ; when slightly browned, 
moisten with gravy, season with salt and pepper, and reduce 
until the usual substance of a puree. 

Spanish sauce. 

Warm two slices of ham, a few slices of veal, carrots, and 
onions, in a stew-pan, moisten with stock, and half a bottle of 
white wine; season with a head of garlic, a bouquet of parsley, 
two heads of cloves, and a laurel leaf ; simmer for two or three 
hours over a slow fire, add a little brown thickening to the 
sauce, reduce, and pass through a tammy ; pour into a jar 
when quite thick, and keep until required. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 309 

■■ 

NOVEMBER 4. 

PotJ^e au riz ^ la puree de pois Pea soup with rice. 

sees. 

Jambon bnlis^ garniture de navets. Braised ham and turnips. 

Filets de levraut piques. Larded fillets of hare. 

Ortolans r&tis. Roast ortolans. 

C^leri au jus et aux trufTes. Stewed celery and truffles. 

Mac^oine de fruits. Macedoine of fruit. 

Larded fillets of hare. 

Trim and lard some fillets of hare, and soak for an hour in 
olive oil seasoned with salt, and mixed spice, cook them the 
same as " Fillets of mutton k la minute " (see 8th of September), 
and serve garnished with poivrade sauce. 

Brown thiokenlnsr. 

Brown thickening is the foundation of nearly all brown 
sauces. Place a lump of butter, well mixed with fine flour, in 
a saucepan, stir over a quick fire, until a good brown colour, 
moisten with stock ; stir the whole time, and as soon as it 
boils take off" the fire. Some brown thickenings have an acid 
taste, which is caused by the butter being browned over too 
quick a fire, which can be avoided by taking the saucepan off 
the fire as soon as the butter melts, and placing it under the 
fire, so that hot cinders may fall on the lid ; stir occasionally, 
and when brown, moisten with stock as above. 



3IO THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 5. 

Potage de consomme au macaronL Clear soup with maccaronu 

Paupiettes de filets de merlans. Baked nllets of whiting. 

Cotelettes de mouton ^ la jardiniere. Mutton cutlets k la jardiniere. 

Cailles r6ties. Roast quail. 

Pur^e de marrons. Puree of chestnuts. 

Croute au mad^re. Fried brioche with Madeira. 



Baked fillets of whitinsr. 

Sprinkle the fillets with salt and pepper, cover one side of 
them with fish forcemeat, roll them, and fix on to a skewer, 
wrap in a sheet of buttered paper, and either bake or broil 
them; when nearly done remove the paper, sprinkle the fillets 
with bread-crumbs, and dish up as soon as a pretty golden 
colour ; stir some crayfish butter into German sauce, and pour 
over them. Another way of cooking fillets of whiting is to 
place them in a baked pie-case (after rolling and stuffing as 
above) garnished with oysters and mushrooms ; moisten with 
German sauce flavoured with essence of mushroom, and bake 
in the oven. 

Puree of chestnuts. 

Peel some roast chestnuts, and warm in butter, moisten with 
stock and white wine, and simmer over a slow fire until quite 
soft j pound in a mortar, pass through a tammy, and serve. 

Pur6e of white haricot beans. 

Boil your beans in water, pass through a tammy, and moisten 
the pur^e with either game stock, essence of ham, reduced veal 
stock, melted goose fat, mutton gravy, or fresh butter ; serve 
garnished with sippets of fried bread. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 3 1 1 



NOVEMBER 6. 

Potage ^ la pur^e de navets. Pur^e of turnips. 

Br^me grille. Broiled sea bream. 

Ris de veau en Mtelets. Calf s sweet-breads on skewers. 

Perdreaux ^ la Cussy. Braised partridges ^ la Cussy. 

Gigot de mouton r6ti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Haricots blancs au jus. Stewed white haricot beans. 

Gelee au rhum. Rum jelly. 



Braised partri4fireB a la Oussy. 

Remove all the bones from the partridges except the thigh 
bones and legs, stuff them with a forcemeat composed of 
chopped sweet-bread, mushrooms, truffles, and cockscombs 
which have been boiled ; sew up the birds to their original 
shape, and hold over hot cinders or coals until the breasts are 
quite firm. Line a braising-pan with a slice of ham, warm it, 
and season with onions, carrots, a bouquet of mixed herbs, 
chopped bacon, the partridge bones, which have been pounded, 
salt and pepper, moisten with stock and white wine. As soon 
as the vegetables get soft add the partridges, cover them with 
a buttered sheet of paper, and simmer over a slow fire, with 
hot coals on the lid of the braising-pan ; when done dish up the 
birds, pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off all grease, 
reduce, add a few slices of truffles to it, and pour over the 
partridges. 

Boast ortolans. 

Do not draw the ortolans, but cut out their gizzards, and 
place the heads in the hole you have made, wrap them up in 
thin slices of bacon, roast before a quick fire for ten or 
twelve minutes, sprinkle with salt, and dish up on fried slices 
of bread. 



312 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 7. 

Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. 

Noix de veau brais^. Braised chump of veal. 

Cailles au trufies. Quails stuffed with truffles. 

Rible de li^vre h. la geMe de Baron of hare with red currant 

groseiUes. jcUy. 

Haricots au beurre de piment . Haricot beans with capsicum butter. 

Bavarois au cafe. Bavarian coffee cream. 



Quails stuffed witli truffles. 

Draw and singe your quails. Peel some truffles, and cut 
them up into large dice ; pound the quails' livers and the 
truffle trimmings in a mortar, season with salt and white pepper, 
stir in a lump of butter, warm in a saucepan, and when cold, 
stuflf the birds with this forcemeat and the chopped truffles ; 
roast, and serve with Pdrigueux sauce. 

Earioot beans with capsicuxii butter. 

Boil the beans in salt and water 3 when done, drain them and 
toss in a saucepan with some capsicum butter (see 14th of 
July), and serve, 

CalTs sweet-breads on skewers. 

Blanch, drain, and strain the sweet-breads, cut them up into 
square blocks, and cook in German sauce ; when done leave 
in the sauce until cold ; cut up some calf's udders to the same 
shape as the pieces of sweet-bread, and cook in German sauce; 
when cold fix alternate pieces of sweet-bread and udder on to 
skewers, replace any sauce which may have been rubbed off, 
bread-crumb, and broil over a quick fire, dish up, and cover 
with Italian sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



Z^l 



NOVEMBER 8. 



Potage aux oeufs poch^s. 

Andouillettes de Troyes grillees. 

C6te de boeuf braisee. 

Monies \ la Villeroi. 

Faisans r6tis. 

Tomates farcies. 

CEufs ^ la neige. 



Clear soup with poached eggs. 

Broiled veal sausages. 

Braised ribs of beef. 

Mussels h. la Villeroi. 

Roast pheasants. 

Stuffed tomatoes. 

Poached whites of egg. 



Broiled veal sausaffes. 

Cut up part of a neck of veal and some calfs udders into 
very thin strips, and boil in water. Chop some mushrooms, 
truffles, parsley, and eschalots, very fine, warm in butter, 
moisten with chicken gravy and white wine, season with mixed 
spice, reduce to half the quantity, add the strips of veal and 
udder, six yolks of egg, salt and pepper, stir the whole time, 
and keep a small fire, so that it may not boil ; blanch some 
calfs guts, soak in vinegar and water, fill them with forcemeat, 
and divide into sausages ; boil them in stock and white wine, 
with a lump of sugar ; when done, drain, and leave until cold. 
Broil the sausages over a slow fire, and serve, garnished with 
•parsley. 

Mussels a la Villeroi. 

Warm the mussels in white wine ; as soon as they open take 
them out of their shells, and, when cold, dip one at a time 
into Villeroi sauce, place on a dish until cool, after which 
bread-crumb them very carefully, fry in butter ; when a golden 
colour, dish up, garnished with fried parsley. 



314 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



NOVEMBER 9. 

Pur^e de pois aux croiitons. Pur^e of peas with fried bread. 

Cabillaud ^ la hoUandaise. Cod ^ la hollandaise. 

Ortolans h. la perigourdine. Ortolans ^ la p^rigourdine. 

Gigot d'agneau r6ti. Roast leg of lamb. 

Betteraves h. la chartreuse. Beetroot fritters. 

Dumpling ferme. Currant dumplings. 



Ortolans a la Perigroardine. 

Dress the birds the same as " Roast ortolans " (see 6th of 
November), cover them with slices of bacon, and cook in a 
bain-marie moistened with stock and lemon juice. Take as 
many truffles as there are ortolans, scoop out the centres, boil 
in champagne ; when done, pour a little pur^e of game into 
each truffle, add the ortolans, warm for a few seconds in the 
oven, and serve. 

Beetroot fritters. 

Cut up some cold boiled yellow beetroot into slices, take 
two pieces at a time, place a slice of raw onion sprinkled with 
chopped chervil, pimpernel, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg 
between them, dip into batter, and plunge into boiling lard ; 
when a good colour, dish up, and sprinkle with salt. 

Currant dnmplinfirs. 

Take some flour, a little water, a pinch of salt, and a few 
currants, make into a paste ; when thoroughly mixed roll into 
balls about the size of a turkey's egg, sprinkle them with flour, 
tie up in a cloth, and cook for half an hour in boiling water \ 
when done, serve, covered with a sweet Madeira sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 315 



NOVEMBER 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage pur^e de lentilles aux Pur^e of lentils with fried bread, 
croutons. 

Brandade de morue. Cream of salt cod. 

CEufs pochds sauce tomates. Poached eggs with tomato sauce. 

Sarcelles r6ties. Roast teal 

Macaroni au gratin. Baked maccaroni and bread-crumbs. 

Blanc-manger \ U vanille. Vanilla blanc-mange. 



Cream of salt cod. 

Soak a piece of salt cod for forty-eight hours, change the 
water four or five times during that time. Cook in cold water, 
and, soon as there are signs of its boiling over, add a tumbler- 
ful of cold water, take the fish-pan off the fire, and leave with 
the lid on for a quarter of an hour ; after which take out the 
cod, drain, bone, and skin it very carefully, place in a sauce- 
pan, sprinkle with lemon juice, and stir over the fire, whilst a 
second person pours in some fine olive oil drop by drop, until 
the cod gets to such a thick paste that it clings to the bottom 
of the saucepan although it is being stirred ; add half a tum- 
blerful of milk, the same quantity of water, continue stirring, 
recommence dropping in olive oil, and when quite dissolved 
to a cream, seaspn with slices of truffle, chopped parsley, and 
a small head of garlic, which have been warmed in olive oil; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. This cream 
to be perfect must never be allowed to boil over. 



3x6 THE i(i(i BILLS OF FARE, 



\ 



NOVEMBER ii. 

Potage \ la pur^ de marrons. Puree of chestnuts. 

. Oie h. la chipolata. Braised goose ^ la chipolata, 

Toume-dos ^ la sauce poivrade. Fillets of beef with poivrade sauce 

Goujons frits. Fried gudgeon. 

Salade de pommes de terre. Potato salad. 

Croquenbouche. Croquenbouche. 



Braised groose a la chipolata. 

Choose a fine goose and truss it for boiling. Line a braisijig- 
pan with slices of bacon, slices of beef, two slices of ham, the 
goose's giblets, three carrots, three onions, a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, two heads of cloves, salt, and pepper ; add the goose, 
moisten with stock and Madeira, or any other white wine, 
cover over with a buttered sheet of paper, and cook over a 
moderate fire ; when done dish up the goose, and garnish with 
chipolata sausage. 

Fillets of beef witli poivrade sauce. 

Cut up a fillet of beef into small slices an inch thick, lard 
them with fine strips of bacon, and soak for two hours in 
marinade sauce (see 3rd of December), after which drain, 
and toss in a saucepan, with butter, salt and pepper ; when 
done, place them round an entrde dish, with a piece of fried 
bread between each fillet, and fill the centre with poivrade 
sauce. 

Boar cutlets d la Saint-Hubert. 

Trim the cutlets, and fry in butter, salt and pepper, over a 
quick fire, turn them so that both sides may be thoroughly 
done, and place round a dish. Stir some stock and white 
wine into a little brown thickening, boil for a few minutes, and 
pour over the cutlets. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 317 



NOVEMBER 12. 

Consomm^ aux oeufs poch^s. Clear soup with poached eggs. 

Brochet au court-bouillon. Pike boiled in court-bouillon. 

Filet de mouton aux haricots. Fillet of mutton and haricot beans. 

Dinde r6tie. Roast turkey-hen. 

Cardons au gratin. Baked cardoons with bread-crumbs. 

Pouding ^ la Cowlay. Pudding ^ la Cowley. 



Baked cardoons with bread-cmmbs. 

Line a tin dish with butter, sprinkle with grated crust of 
bread, add your cardoons, which have been blanched and 
boiled, cover with grated bread-crumbs, and moisten with 
melted butter, brown in the oven or with a salamander. 

Cardoons a I'italienne. 

Prepare the same as above, only add grated cheese to the 
bread-crumbs. 

Hard-boiled esrsrs with bechamel sauce. 

Take twelve or fifteen hard-boiled eggs, cut them in half 
lengthways, and warm in bechamel sauce, for either fast or 
feast day ; do not let the sauce boil, add a little butter, and a 
pinch of grated nutmeg ; when done, pour into a • dish, and 
garnish with sippets of fried bread. 

PuddinfiT ^ la Cowley. 

Stir some yolks of Qg^ and powdered sugar thoroughly 
together, add some pounded almonds and more yolks of ^gg^ 
thicken with mashed baked potatoes, flavour with vanilla 
sugar, stir in some whipped whites of ^ggy boil, and serve, 
covered with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla. 



3i8 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



NOVEMBER 13. 

Potage \ la parisienne. Parisian soup. 

Tanches k la poulette. Tench a la poulette. 

Filets de becasses en canape. Fillets of woodcock on toast. 

Rognon de veau roti. Roast calTs kidney. 

Choux de Bnixelles au beurre. Brussels sprouts with butter. 

Pouding de cabinet. Cabinet pudding. 



Fillets of woodcock on toast. 

Fillet four woodcocks, trim them, sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
and a little melted butter; chop up the trail with a little 
scraped bacon, salt, pepper, eschalots, and parsley ; cut some 
slices of bread-crust a good bit bigger than the fillets, make 
several deep slits down the edges, warm them in butter, scoop 
out the crumb, and fill them with the stuffing ; either bake or 
broil them ; toss the fillets in a saucepan with butter until 
done, lay one on each baked crust, and moisten with a sauce 
made of the pounded carcases of the birds mixed with meat 
glaze. 

Batter. 

Put three-quarters of a pound of flour in a pudding-bowl, 
melt two ounces of butter in a little warm water, blow the 
butter off the water into the flour, stir well, add the water, 
and when the paste is perfectly smooth, moisten with sufficient 
warm water to make it a proper substance ; add a pinch of 
salt, and two whipped whites of egg, when the batter will be 
ready for use. If required for sweet fritters, employ milk 
instead of water. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



31^9 



NOVEMBER 14. 



Potage a la puree de lentilles. 

Maquereaux a la maJtre d'hotel. 

Filet de sanglier au chasseur, 

Poularde rotie. 

Cardons au jus« 

Bavarois t6t-fait au maizena. 



Pur^e of lentils. 

Mackerel k la maltre d'hotel. 

Fillet of boar au chasseur. 

Roast pullet. 

Stewed cardoons. 

Maizena Bavarian cream. 



Fillet of boar an chasseur. 

Soak the fillet for at least two days in olive oil and salt, 
drain, and simmer in a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon, 
carrots, onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, salt, pepper, and 
equal quantities of stock and white wine ; when sufficiently 
done, drain the fillet, glaze it, and serve with piquante sauce, 
to which you have added a little of the liquor in which it was 
cooked, after passing it through a tammy and reducing. 



Maizena Bavarian cream. 

Warm three ounces of sugar and a pinch of salt in a large 
tumblerful of milk ; whilst this is cooking, stir three ounces 
of maizena and three yolks of egg into a wine-glassful of cold 
milk ; as soon as the sugar and milk boil, add this mixture, 
stir over the fire for a few minutes, flavour with lemon peel or 
vanilla, and pour into a mould through a fine sieve ; place in 
the refrigerator \ when set, turn out of the mould and dish up 
on a folded napkin. The Americans generally garnish this 
dish with strawberry or some other kind of fruit syrup. The 
advantages of this cream are that it is very nice to eat and cheap 
to prepare. 



320 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 



NOVEMBER 15. 

Potage i la pur^ de marrons. Puree of chestnuts. 

Piece de boeuf bouillie et panee. Boiled brisket of beef bread- 
crumbed. 

Filets de sarcelles aux anchois. Fillets of teal with anchovies. 

Gigot de chevreuil r6tL Roast 1^ of roebuck. 

Croquettes de pommes de terre. Potato croquettes. 

Pommes au riz. Stewed apples and rice. 



Boiled brisket of beef bread-crumbed. 

Boil your brisket. When cooked, cover it with a thick sauce 
made of reduced stock, four yolks of egg, salt and pepper; 
sprinkle with bread-crumbs, brown in the oven, and serve with 
Spanish sauce. 

Potato croquettes. 

Either bake your potatoes or boil them in salt and water, 
peel, and pass through a tammy, add a lump of fresh butter, 
salt and pepper to them, roll into croquettes on a wooden slab 
sprinkled with flour, egg and bread-crumb, and fiy in butter \ 
when a good colour, dish up, garnished with jfried parsley. 

Bibs of beef a la Bordelaise. 

Cut and trim the ribs into nice shaped pieces, and sprinkle 
with olive oil, salt and pepper. Blanch some beef marrow, 
cut it into slices, and dip in warm meat glaze ; broil the ribs 
on the gridiron, and warm the slices of marrow with a sala- 
mander; place the beef on an entree dish, cover with the 
pieces of marrow, and pour some Bordelaise sauce over them. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 321 



NOVEMBER 16. 

Potage de consomm^ \ la brunoise. Bnmoise soup. 

Merlans au gratin. Baked whiting and bread-crumbs. 

Boudins de li^vre. Boudins of hare. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti. Roast fillet of beef. 

Salsifis \ la sauce blanche. Salsifis with white sauce. 

Baba chaud au Mad^re. Baba with Madeira sauce. 



Baked wliitlngr and bread-orombs. 
Prepare the same as baked smelts (see 26th of January). 

Boudins of liare. 

Fillet a hare, remove all the nerves, pound in a mortar, and 
pass through a fine sieve ; take the same quantity of boiled 
calfs udders and bread-crumb, which has been soaked in stock 
and dried in a cloth ; pound all thoroughly together ; if by 
chance you cannot procure calfs udders, use double the 
quantity of butter instead ; season this forcemeat with mixed 
spice, salt, coarse black pepper, chopped eschalots and parsley, 
stir in some yolks of egg, and one or two whites, roll up the 
forcemeat into a large pudding or several small ones, and poach 
in boiling water ; when done, drain, place on a wooden slab 
sprinkled with flour, moisten the pudding with melted butter, 
bread-crumb, and brown in the oven or on a gridiron ; when a 
good colour, serve, without any sauce. 

Sole k la Oolbert. 

Boil your sole, and warm it in Colbert soup (see 9th of 
January). 



322 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 17. 



Potage i la pur^e de jambon. 

Esturgeon en fricandeau. 

Saute de perdreaux aux truffes. 

Rable de li^vre r&ti. 

iLpinards au jus. 
Gateau aux amandes. 



Pur^ of ham. 

Fricandeau of sturgeon. 

Fillets of partridge with truffles. 

Roast baron of hare. 

Stewed spinach. 

Almond cake. 



Fur^e of liam. 

Cut up a pound to a pound and a half of boiled ham into 
dice, pound in a mortar, paoisten with stock, add a tablespoon- 
ful of Soubise sauce, and the same quantity of Spanish sauce, 
pass through a tammy, and stir into sufficient stock for seven or 
eight persons ; warm, and a quarter of an hour before serving, 
stir in a bottle of Madeira and a lump of fresh butter. Hand 
fried dice of bread separately. It is better to warm the purde 
in a bain-marie. 



Fillets of partridgre with truffles. 

Cut the fillets off four partridges, trim them, and warm in a 
saucepan with butter ; as soon as they are firm, cut them up into 
round scallops. Pound the carcases and trimmings of the 
birds ; warm in a little stock, pass through a tammy, reduce, 
add three tablespoonsful of stock, and reduce to a half glaze ; 
warm th^ scallops in this sauce — ^be careful it does not boil — 
add half a pound of truffles which have been cooked in the 
same butter as the fillets, stir in a little butter, dish up in a 
pyramid, and garnish with fried sippets of bread. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 323 



NOVEMBER 18. 

Potage pur^e Cr^qr. . Cr^cy soup. 

Barbue sauce aux hultres. Brill and oyster sauce. 

Poulet saut^. Brown fricassee of fowl. 

Gigot de chevreuil roti. Roast leg of roebuck. 

Navets au sucre. Stewed turnips with sugar. 

Pommes au beurre. Stewed apples. 



Osrster sauce. 

Make some white thickening with an ounce of flour and two 
ounces of butter ; warm over a slow fire, add a tumblerful of 
stock, stir over a quick fire ; as soon as it boils, simmer in the 
saucepan by the side of the fire, with the lid on, for twelve hours. 
Boil three dozen oysters in water ; when done, drain, trim them, 
and warm in part of the water in which they were cooked ; take 
three large tablespoonsful of the remainder of the water and add 
to the white sauce ; reduce, pass through a tammy ; warm the 
oysters in it, and serve very hot. 

Stewed turnips and sugrar. 

Peel and trim some small turnips to the same size ; brown in 
butter, and when a good colour, sprinkle with sugar, and a 
pinch of salt; moisten with two or three tablespoonsful of 
stock, place the lid on the saucepan, and simmer over a slow fire 
until done. 

Horse-radisli sauce. 

Stir four ounces of scraped horse-radish into a pint of cream, 
add a little salt, and serve. 



Y 2 



324 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 19. 

Potage Baraquine. Baraquine soup. 

Brochet \ la Clermont. Pike ^ la Clermont. 

Levraut \ la minute. Leveret ^ la minute. 

Pdt^ de foie gras. Pdt^ de foie gras. 

Aspic d'^revisses. Aspic of crayfish. 

Cr^me ^ la Chantilly. . Cream ^ la Chantilly. 



Baraaoine soup. 

Add a little tapioca to some rich clear soup; when done, pour 
into the soup-tureen on to finely-cut strips of boiled chicken 
and truffles. 

Pike d la Olenuont. 

Cut up a pike into slices, and soak for half an hour in olive 
oil, seasoned with lemon-juice, chopped onions, and parsley ; 
after which, cover the pieces with bread-crumbs, and boil over 
a slow fire, baste with olive oil, and when done, place them in a 
dish ; try as much as possible to keep the original shape of the 
fish by replacing the head, which has been boiled separately ; 
garnish with stewed carp's roe, and hand maitre d'hotel sauce 
in a sauceboat. 

Leveret d la minute. 

Skin, draw, and cut a leveret into joints, toss in a saucepan, 
with butter, salt, pepper, and mixed spice ; when quite firm, 
add some chopped mushrooms, eschalots, parsley, and a table- 
spoonful of flour, stir well, moisten with white wine, and 
stock j as soon as it boils, pour into a dish, and serve. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 325 



NOVEMBER 20. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Garbure au maigre. Bread and cabbage soup for fast 

day. 

Rougets en caissse. Red mullet in cases. 

Vol-au-vent de quenelles d'estur- Vol-au-vent of sturgeon quenelles, 
geon. 

SarceUes roties. Roast teal. 

CEufs brouiU^ aux pointes Buttered eggs with asparagus heads, 
d'asperges. 

Gateau au rhum. Baba ot rum cake. 

Bread and cabbagre soup for fast day. 

Boil some dried peas, carrots, onions, and celery in salt and 
water ; when a good flavour, pass the liquor through a cloth, 
and boil some carrots, onions, and celery in it ; stir in a lump 
of butter, and if it gets too thick, moisten with vegetable gravy 
for fast day (see 29th of September) ; the flavour of the soup is 
much improved by the addition of a few frogs* legs or slices of 
carp or tench ; season with salt and pepper, pass through a 
tammy, and soak thick slices of bread in the stock. Finish 
preparing the soup, the same as bread and cabbage soup for 
feast day (see 14th of September), with the exception of using 
butter instead of bacon for cooking the cabbages, and moisten- 
ing with vegetable stock instead of meat stock. 

Quenelles of sturgreon. 

Pound up equal quantities of sturgeon and bread-crumb, 
moisten with butter, season with salt, mixed spice, and a table- 
spoonful of chopped mixed herbs which have been warmed in 
butter, stir in the necessary quantity of eggs, and poach the 
quenelles in boiling water. 

Diplomatic sauce. 

Stir a little of the liquor in which some crayfish have been 
boiled into cream bdchamel sauce, and serve. 

Sauce a la Cardinal. 

This sauce is made by stirring crayfish butter into some 
German sauce. 



326 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 21. 

Pur^e de pois sees. Pea soup. 

Sole Colbert. Sole ^ la Colbert. 

Cotelettes de mouton Soubise. Mutton cutlets 4. la Soubise. 

Coq de bruy^re roti. Roast black-cock. 

Celeri au jus avec truffes. Stewed celery and truffles. 

Tourte ^ la cr^me au maizena. Maizena cream tart. 



Boast black-cock. 

We get two species of this wild bird from the northern forests 
of Alsace, Lorraine, and principally from the Vosges ; one is as 
big as a peacock, and the other about the size of a pheasant; 
their flesh is dark, and their flavour very strong. If the birds 
have fed on juniper berries they will have a most disagreeable 
taste, and if on certain kinds of pine seeds you can at once 
detect it, as the smell will cling to your hand if you touch the 
bird. Prepare the same as pheasants, lard the breasts, and 
roast. The birds must not be too high. 

Haizena cream tart. 

Warm a wine-glassful of milk in a saucepan ; as soon as it 
boils, stir in two ounces of powdered sugar, three ounces of 
butter, a pinch of salt, and take off the fire. Stir two ounces 
of maizena and two yolks of egg into a wine-glassful of cold 
milk, add to the hot milk, boil for five minutes, stir the whole 
time, pour into a bowl, whip until cold, and pour into a baked 
open tart case. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 327 



NOVEMBER 22. 

Potage i la Bagration. Bagration soup. 

Matelote 4 la marini^re. Stewed carp and eel. 

Perdreaux ^ Fanglaise, Partridges ^ I'anglaise. 

Jambon roti. Roast ham. 

Epinards au jus. Stewed spinach. 

Bavarois au marasquin. Bavarian cream with maraschino. 



Baerration soup. 

Stir some clear fish soup into a little reduced stock, simmer, 
skim off all grease, flavour with curry powder, thicken with 
cream and yolks of egg, and pour into a soup-tureen on to 
chopped fillets of sole and vegetables which have been warmed 
in butter ; add some crayfish tails, and hand dice of fried bread 
separately. 

Partridfires d I'anfirlaise. 

Draw your partridges, and stuff them with their livers 
chopped up with butter, salt and pepper, cover them with 
buttered sheets of paper, and roast ; when about three quarters 
done, take off the spit, slightly raise each joint with a knife, 
and add a little forcemeat made of chopped bread-crumbs, 
butter, salt, coarse black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, 
eschalots, parsley, arid chives ; moisten the birds with equal 
quantities of stock and champagne, place them in a stew-pan, 
do not put on the lid, and simmer over a slow fire until the 
sauce is reduced ; dish up with their own sauce, and sprinkle 
with lemon juice. 

Aspic of crayfish. 

Fill a mould with boiled crayfish, prettily cut boiled vege- 
tables, and meat jelly, place in the refrigerator until set, turn 
out of the mould, and serve with mayonnaise sauce. Garnish 
the dish with bouquets of cold boiled asparagus heads and 
small pieces of cauliflower. 



328 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 23. 

Potage brunoise au tapioca. Brunoise soup with tapioca. 

Rosbif ^ la puree de haricots Roast beef and pur& of red haricot 

rouges. beans. 

Foies gras 4 la P^rigueux. Foies gras ^ la Perigueux. 

Grousse rotie. Roast grouse. 

Petits pois aux laitues. Stewed peas and lettuce. 

Bavarois a la fleur d'oranger. Bavarian cream with orange-flower 

water. 



Foies firras k la P^rigrueox. 

The illustrious Beauvilliers used to prepare this dish in the 
following manner : — ^Take seven fat fowls' livers, cut off the 
gall, lard them with fine strips of truffles, lay in a stew-pan 
lined with slices of bacon, and moisten with either rich mire- 
poix, or equal quantities of white wine and stock ; season with 
a little salt, a peeled carrot, two small onions, one of them stuck 
with a head of clove, a bouquet of parsley, chives, half a laurel 
leaf, and half a head of garlic ; cover over with slices of bacon 
and a sheet of buttered paper, and cook for a quarter of an 
hour with hot coals on the lid of the stew-pan ; drain, and dish 
up covered with truffle sauce. People will do wisely to follow 
the celebrated master's instructions. 

Boast errouse. 

Pluck, singe, draw, and truss the birds ; cover with slices of 
bacon; roast for twenty minutes, sprinkle with salt before 
taking off the spit, and serve with their own gravy. In England 
grouse are sometimes served in the following fashion :— -After 
roasting the birds, cut them up into joints, arrange in a 
pyramid on a dish, and cover with meat glaze. Hand rich 
gravy in a sauceboat. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 329 



NOVEMBER 24. 

Potage au macaroni avec parmesan. Maccaroni soup with Parmesan 

cheese. 
Cabillaud farci. Stuffed cod. 

Ris de veau aux pointes d'asperges. Sweet-breads with asparagus heads. 
Gigot de marcassin r6ti. Roast leg of young wild boar. 

Chicor^e ^ la cr^me. Stewed chicory and cream. 

Gdteau au rhum. Baba or rum cake. 



Stuifed cod. 

Choose a thick white cod's tail, boil it in court-bouillon 
(see 1 8th of April); when done, cut oflf the under fillets, and 
lay on a cloth. Make some fish forcemeat with either whiting 
or sweet-water fish; cut all the small bones off the centre 
bone of the tail with a pair of scissors, cover with a layer of 
forcemeat, lay the fillets in their original position, wrap up in 
a buttered sheet of paper, after sprinkling the cod with bread- 
crumbs ; brown in the oven or on the gridiron, and dish up 
with stewed roe. Recipe for which see below. 

Stewed roe. 

Cook your roe in a saucepan with butter, crayfish tails, 
chopped parsley, chives, and some . bottoms of artichokes ; 
when done, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, flavour with a 
few drops of vinegar and serve. 

Glaze for cold partridfires or woodcock. 

Reduce five parts of Spanish sauce with one part of game 
stock, pass through a tammy, stir into brown meat jelly, and 
keep until required. 



330 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 25. 

Potage Soubise. Pur^e of onion \ la Soubise. 

Vives au gratin. Baked weaver and bread-crumbs. 

Faisan ^ T^touflade. Stewed pheasant. 

Levrauts bard& rotis sauce poiv- Roast larded hare, poivrade sauce, 
rade. 

Cardons au fromage. Cardoons with cheese. 

Crepes au maizena. Maizena pancakes. 



Pur6e of onions a la Soubise. 

Chop up about twenty onions, warm in butter, but do not 
let them browii, stir in two or three tablespoonsful of pur^e 
of white haricot beans, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and 
pass through a tammy ; if the purde is too thick for soup, add 
a little stock, and serve with fried dice of bread. 

Stewed pheasant. 

Truss the pheasant for boiling, lard it with fine strips of 
bacon, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and mixed spice ; be careful 
to lard even the legs, cover with slices of bacon, and place in 
a stew-pan lined with bacon ; moisten with equal quantities of 
white wine, and stock, and simmer for two hours ; when done, 
drain the pheasants, remove the slices of bacon, and dish up 
covered \vith game sauce. 

Haizena pancakes. 

Take three ounces of maizena, half a tumblerful of milk, a 
dessert-spoonful of olive oil, an egg, and a pinch of salt, stir 
thoroughly together, and make your pancakes in the usual 
manner. 



\ 



THE i(i(^ BILLS OF FARE, 331 



NOVEMBER 26. 

Potage de semoule 4 la cliifronnade Semolina soup with chervil leaves. 
d*oseille. 
Oie en daube. Cold braised goose. 

Petits pdt^ k la bourgeoise. Small patties k la bourgeoise. 

Chiteaubriand garni de pommes Fillets of beef 4 la Chateaubriand, 
soiuiee^. 
Buisson d'^crevisses. Cra3rfish. 

Madeleines 4 la fleur d'oranger. Madeleine cakes with orange-flower 

water. 



Small patties a la bourgeoise. 

Prepare some small patty cases the same as for patties \ la 
reine (see 13th of October), fill them with quenelle stuffing 
either for fast or feast day, bake for a quarter of an hour, glaze 
with yolk of egg, and serve very hot. 

Fried potatoes. 

Cut up your potatoes into slices about half an inch thick, 
plunge them into boiling lard, and remove when about three 
quarters done ; replace them in the saucepan as soon as the 
lard boils over, and stir until the potatoes are quite swollen 
and soft, sprinkle with salt, drain, and serve very hot. 

Boast baron of hare. 

Cut off the legs of your hare, trim and draw it, lard and 
prepare it in exactly the same manner as " Roast hare " (see 
23rd of October). 



332 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 27. 

Potage croute au pot. Soup with gravy crusts. 

Piece de boeuf bouillie, sauce Boiled beef, Robert sauce. 
Robert. 

Br^me de mer au vin blanc. Bream with white wine sauce. 

Paon roti. Ro^t peacock. 

Artichauts k la barigoule. Stuffed artichokes k la barigoule. 

Beignets soufflS. Souffle fritters. 



Bieaxn with white wine sauce. 

Clean, scale, and cut up the bream into pieces ; place in a 
fish-pan large enough for them to lie side by side, cover with 
white wdne, season with salt, coarse black pepper, a bouquet 
of parsley, thyme, a laurel leaf, four heads of garlic, and four 
ounces of onion, cook over a moderate fire; when done, 
remove the fish, thicken the liquor in which it was boiled with 
four ounces of butter and a little flour, stir with a wooden 
spoon over the fire for twenty minutes — be careful it does not 
bum — pass through a tammy, and pour over the fish which you 
have previously placed in a shallow stew-pan ; sprinkle with 
chopped parsley, boil for a few minutes, dish up with the heads 
of the fish raised in the centre of the dish, and cover with the 
sauce. 

Stewed onions. 

Cook your onions in hot cinders, peel them, and simmer for 
twenty minutes in a saucepan, with essence of ham and veal 
stock, thicken the sauce with a little potato-flour, and if liked, 
add a pinch of mustard. 

Stewed mushrooms. 
Prepare the same as stewed onions (see above). 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 303 



NOVEMBER 28. 

Potage 4 la pur^ de c^leri. Pur^ of celery. 

Turbot 4. la hollandaise. Turbot a la hollandaise. 

Sella de mouton ^ la pur^e de Saddle of mutton with pur^e of 

navets. turnips. 

Ortolans r6tis en casserole close. Ortolans roasted in a saucepan. 

Pommes saut^es. Stewed apples. 

Nougat. Nougat. 



Tnrbot a la hollandaise. 

A good turbot ought to be thick, and have a yellow tinge ; 
if it looks at all blue, you may be sure it is not good. 

Prepare your turbot with care, soak in cold water for two 
hours, drain, place in a fish-pan, and cover it entirely with 
fine salt ; at the end of an hour, fill the fish-pan with boiling 
water and simmer from twenty to forty minutes, according to 
the size of your fish ; when done, drain and dish up on a 
napkin, garnish with parsley and boiled potatoes, and hand 
both hollandaise and shrimp sauce in sauceboats. 



Ortolans roasted In a saucepan. 

Prepare your ortolans the same as for roasting (see 6th of 
November), place them in a saucepan with a little butter, fix 
the lid on firmly, and shake over a quick fire ; a few minutes 
suffice to cook them. Serve very hot. 



334 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



NOVEMBER 29. 

Potage ptir^ de marrons ^ la Pur^ of chestnuts ^ la mancelle. 
mancelle. 

Cabillaud sauce aux oeufe. Boiled cod and e%^ sauce. 

Ravioles au gratin. Baked raviolis. 

Gigot de mouton en chevreuiL L^ of mutton ^ la roebuck. 

Champignons ^ I'ltalienne. Mushrooms li I'italienne. 

(Eufs 4 la neige. Poached whites of ^g. 



Par6e of chestnxLts a la Kanoelle. 

Make a thick pur^e of chestnuts (see 5th of November), 
stir it into a thin pur& of game, warm in a bain-marie, and 
serve with dice of fried bread. 

Baked raviolis. 

Take a quarter of a pound of veal, four ounces of calfs 
udder, three ounces of sausage meat, four ounces of either 
beef marrow or calfs kidney fat, and mixed herbs, mince all 
up very fine, season with salt and pepper, and pound in a 
mortar ; add a handful of spinach which has been blanched, 
boiled, drained, and warmed in butter, the same quantity of 
curd cheese, which you have squeezed in a cloth so as to 
extract all milk, pound again, stir in two yolks of t^^ whip 
up the whites, and add them to it. Make some short paste, 
the same as for rissoles, cut into small squares, fold them over 
a little of the forcemeat, and poach in boiling stock for five 
minutes, after which, drain and place on a tin dish, sprinkle 
with grated Parmesan and Gruyfere cheese, moisten with stock 
and brown in the oven. 

Le? of mutton f^ la roebuck. 

Prepare the same as roast leg of roebuck (see sth of Sep- 
tember). 



7 HE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 335 



NOVEMBER 30. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Bronoise 4. la pur^e de lentilles. Brunoise soup with pur^ of lentils. 

Carpe a la russe. Carp ^ la russe. 

Croquettes de riz au parmesan. Rice croquettes with Parmesan 

cheese. 

Bar sauce r^moulade. Bass, r^moulade sauce. 

Petits pois au beurre (conserve). Preserved green peas with butter. 

Salade de pommes de terre aux Potato salad and truffles, 
truffes. 

Gateau Saint-Charles. Saint Charles cake. 



Oarp ^ 1ft BxLSse. 

Scale and clean out a fine carp, sprinkle with flour, and 
place in a saucepan thickly lined with butter ; moisten with 
two tumblersful of white wine, and cook in the oven with hot 
coals on the lid ; when done, lay on a foundation of pickled 
red cabbage warmed in butter, and garnish with glazed onions, 
mushrooms, sliced gherkins, and serve with horse-radish sauce. 
This is an excellent dish for fast days. 

Potato salad. 

Bake your potatoes, peel, and slice them. Cut up some 
truffles, which have been boiled in white wine, into very tliin 
slices, and arrange them in alternate layers in a salad-bowl 
with the sliced potatoes; the last layer must be of truffles, 
garnish with cold boiled young onions, fillets of anchovy, and 
either stuffed or stoned olives, sprinkle with salt, pepper ; season 
with olive oil and a little vinegar, and serve. 



336 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER i. 

Potage en gras aux pites dltalie. Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Harengs fiun^ ^ la bnixelloise. Smoked herrings ^ la bruxelloise. 

ChevreuU en civet. Civet of roebuck. 

Dinde truflRfe. Turkey-hen stuffed with truffles. 

Chicor^ 4 la cr^me. Pur^ of chicory and cream. 

Pommes \ la Cond6. Apples ^ la Conde. 

Turkey-hen stuifed with tmfiles; either roasted or braised. 

Chop up some breasts of chicken, foies gras, bacon, and 
truffles, season with salt, pepper, and a laurel leaf, moisten 
with stock, add two or three dozen whole truffles, and simmer 
over a very slow fire for half an hour ; when cold, place the 
forcemeat and truffles in a turkey-hen, trussed for roasting; 
sew up the pouch securely, and hang in a cool place for three 
or four days, after which, cover it with slices of bacon, and a 
buttered sheet of paper ; when nearly done, remove the bacon 
and paper, and dish up the bird as soon as a good brown 
colour; add either some sliced or chopped truffles to the 
gravy, and hand in a sauceboat. 

If you braise your turkey, cut up the breasts of chicken, 
bacon and foie gras into large dice. 

Fresh herriners with mustard sauce. 

Choose some herrings with soft roe, clean, and scale them, 
wash in cold water, and cut several slits down the sides, soak 
for half an hour in olive oil, salt and pepper; broil over a 
quick fire, and serve. Stir a dessert-spoonful of mustard into 
some white sauce, and hand in a sauceboat. 



-s 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 337 



DECEMBER 2. 

Potage ^ la pur^e de pois sees. Pea soup. 

Soles Colbert. Soles a la Colbert. 

Lapereaux en salade. Young rabbit salad. 

Rosbif en broche. Roast beef. 

Betteraves ^ la poitevine. Beetroot ^ la poitevine. 

Grug^re au fromage. Baked cheese. 



Totinfir rabbit salad. 

Fillet some cold roast rabbits, and soak for an hour in oil 
and vinegar seasoned with chopped tarragon leaves, pimpernel, 
chives, salt and pepper. Lay some nice pieces of lettuce in a 
salad-bowl ; add the fillets of rabbit interspersed with fillets of 
anchovy, capers, chopped beetroot, slices of hard boiled eggs, 
and minced chervil and pimpernel leaves ; garnish with lettuce 
hearts, and serve. 

Beetroot d la Poitevine. 

Cut a cold boiled beetroot into slices, warm in brown thick- 
ening, season with chopped onions, and mixed spice, and 
stir in a teaspoonful of strong vinegar just before taking off the 
fire. 

Baked cheese. 

Warm four ounces of butter in half a tumblerful of water 
and a pinch of salt. As soon as it boils, stir in seven ounces 
of flour ; after a few minutes, take the saucepan off the fire, 
and add four yolks of egg, the whites well whipped, and four 
ounces of grated Gruyfcre cheese ; pour round a tin dish, cover 
with very thin slices of cheese, glaze with yolks of egg, and 
bake for twenty-five minutes. This is a dehcious dish. 



338 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 3. 

Potage k la grecque. Pea soup ^ la grecque. 

'Eperlans ou goujons frits. Fried smelts or gudgeon. 

C6telettes de veau en papillotes. Veal cutlets in cases. 

Gigot de chevreuil roti. Roast leg of roebuck. 

Truflfes au vin de Champagne. Truffles boiled in champagne. 
Psltisserie. Light pastry. 

Pea soup a la Orecque. 
Mix some brunoise and pea soup together. Cut up a braised 
fillet of mutton into scallops, pass the sauce in which it was 
braised through a tammy, and add both mutton and sauce to 
the soup ; skim off all grease, and serve. 

Veal cutlets in cases. 
Soak your cutlets in oil seasoned with chopped mixed herbs, 
mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a few drops of either vinegar or 
lemon juice ; after which, wrap each cutlet in a sheet of oiled 
paper, and simmer in a saucepan over a slow fire, with the olive 
oil in which they were soaked ; when done, drain, and dish up 
in the cases. 

Truffles boiled in cbampagme. 

Line a saucepan with sliceaof ham and veal, add some peeled 
truffles, season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, mushrooms, 
melted bacon fat, salt and pepper, cover with slices of bacon, 
moisten with champagne, simmer over a slow fire ; when done, 
pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off all grease, reduce, and 
pour over the truffles. 

Harinade of wine or vinegar. 

Melt a lump of butter in a saucepan, add some thin slices of 
onion and carrot, a laurel leaf, a head of garlic, parsley, and 
pepper, moisten with either water or stock, and a third the 
quantity of vinegar or wine ; boil, pass through a tammy, and 
keep until required. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 339 



DECEMBER 4. 

Potage bninoise. Brunoise soup. 

Anguille a la sauce verte. Eel with green sauce. 

Selle de mouton k Tanglaise. Roast saddle of mutton. 

Mauviettes grill^es. Broiled larks. 

Poulainte au parmesan. Polenta ^ Titalienne. 

Flan de fraugipane ^ la moelle. Marrow frangipane tart. 



Harrow firangripane tart. 

Stir four eggs into six ounces of flour in a saucepan, when 
quite smooth add two tumblersful of milk and a pinch of salt ; 
as soon as it becomes a thick paste, take off the fire, stir 
thoroughly until perfectly smooth, after which warm over a 
moderate fire for twenty minutes, stir the whole time ; when 
done, add six ounces of powdered sugar, four ounces of beef 
marrow (which has been minced and warmed in cream), thirty 
pounded Jordan almonds, and ten bitter ones ; moisten with a 
small wine-glassful of brandy, and pour into a mould lined 
with very light paste ; bake in a quick oven ; when done, turn 
out of the mould, glaze with white sugar, and serve very 
hot. 

Glaze for cold chickens. 

Take five parts of velout^ sauce to one of chicken stock, 
reduce to a glaze, thicken with yolks of egg, pass through a 
tammy, and if too thick, stir in a little veal jelly. 

Polenta a I'ltalienne. 

Prepare the same as " Maccaroni k I'ltalienne " (see 20th of 
June). 



z 2 



340 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 5. 

Potage aux nids d'hirondelles. Swallows'-nests soup. 

Paupiettes de filets de merlans. Baked fillets of whiting. 

Poularde k la Montmorency. Pullet ^ la Montmorency. 

Gigot roti. Roast leg of mutton. 

Haricots blancs au jus. Stewed white haricot beans. 

Cro^te au mad^rc. Fried slices of brioche withMadeira. 



Swallows'-nests soup. 

A swallow's-nest weighs about a quarter of an ounce, and 
generally costs from three to four shillings. Have a nest for 
each person, soak in cold water for twenty-four hours, dry with 
a cloth, open them carefully, and remove any feathers you may 
find, wash in several changes of water, and simmer for three 
quarters of an hour in boiling chicken stock ; just before taking 
off the fire, add a pinch of powdered capsicum, and the neces- 
sary quantity of chicken stock, which must have been specially 
made, as one of the chief merits of this soup is to have a very 
strong, clear stock, very slightly salted. 

Boiled slice of cod with ezz saxioe. 

Remove the bone firom the centre of your slice of cod, fill 
the hole with a carrot wrapped in bacon, boil in salt and 
water; when done, drain, and dish up covered with egg 
sauce, garnish with boiled potatoes, and hand butter sauce 
separately. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 341 



DPXEMBER 6. 

Potage ^ I'oseille ^ la cr^me. Sorrel soup with cream. 

Bar sauce au beurre. Bass, butter sauce. 

Mauviettes au chasseur. Larks au chasseur. 

Rosbif a Tanglaise. Roast beef. 

Salade de choux rouges. Red cabbage salad. 

Bavarois au caf6. Bavarian coffee cream. 



Sorrel soup with cream. 

Cook some chopped sorrel in butter until a pulp, stir in a little 
flour, salt, pepper, and water; as soon as it boils, thicken with 
yolks of ^g% and cream, and pour into your soup-tureen on 
10 slices of bread. This is an excellent soup for fast days. 

Larks au chasseur. 

Brown some small sausages and slices of lean bacon in a 
saucepan, add your larks and a few mushrooms, sprinkle with 
flour, moisten with red wine, season with salt and pepper, and 
serve, after clearing the sauce of all grease. 

Larks k la chipolata are prepared in the same manner, with 
the exception that a few peeled roast chestnuts must be added 
to the stew. 

Sole pie. 

Boil two pounds of eel; when done, bone, and boil the 
bones in the water in which the eel was cooked ; season with 
salt and pepper, reduce to about a tumblerful, and pass through 
a tammy. Chop up the eel, and mix it well into some grated 
bread, lemon peel, chopped parsley, an anchovy, salt, pepper, 
and an ounce of butter, spread this forcemeat at the bottom of 
a pie-dish lined with paste, fill up with fillets of sole, moisten 
with the reduced liquor, cover with paste, and bstke. 



S42 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEBiBER 7. 

Potage sa m aa ooolis ^foerisses. Cniy6sh stodc with rioe. 

Roi^ets grille i la iiiaitredli6cd. Broiled red mnllet ^ la maitre 

dlioteL 

Noiz de vean i la Godard. Chmnpof vealila Godard. 

U^ne rdd. Roast hare. 

Champignons fiurcis. Stnfifed mnshrooms. 

Gel^ an rfanm. Rum jelly. 



Crayflab stock. 

Choose thirty small crayfish, wash them thoroughly, boil in 
water, and when done, break oXi the tails, and pound the re- 
mainder of the bodies in a mortar with twelve Jordan almonds. 
Take a quarter of a pound of veal, the same quantity of ham, 
some onions, carrots, and parsnips, slice them, and simmer for 
a few minutes, add a little melted bacon &t, and a teaspoonfiil 
of flour, stir well, and moisten with strong stock, season with 
salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, chives, mushrooms, truffles, 
and crusts of bread, simmer until done, remove the veal, add 
the pounded crayfish, and pass through a tammy. This is a 
delicious soup, and is often served with boiled rice, Italian 
paste, or fiied bread ; it is also used to moisten various stews 
and pies; or to boil such vegetables as cardoons or cauli- 
flowers. 

Oardoons for fiEist day. 

Clean, scrape, and wash your cardoons, cut up into pieces 
of equal length, and boil in salt and water; stir in a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, and when the vegetables are done, drain, and serve, 
covered with white sauce. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 343 



DECEMBER 8. 

Puchero. Puchero or Spanish soup. 

Perches grilldes. Broiled perch. 

Quartier de venaison \ Tanglaise. Roast forequarter of venison. 

Champignons farcis. Stuffed mushrooms. 

Beignets de pommes. Apple fritters. 



Fachero or Spanish soup. 

Put two pounds of steak and four quarts of water into an 
earthenware pan, bury it about two-thirds in red hot cinders, 
skim occasionally, and after simmering for an hour, add a large 
handful of dried chick peas, which have been soaked in water 
for twenty-four hours ; an hour after, add half a pound of well 
washed salt pork, carrots, a leek, a bouquet of parsley, chervil 
leaves, and a head of garlic ; three quarters of an hour before 
serving, add a slice of ham, a piece of pumpkin, and, if neces- 
sary, a little pepper and salt ; pass the liquor through a tammy, 
and pour into a soup-tureen on to very thin slices of toast, 
leave for a few minutes so that the toast may swell. Place 
the meat and vegetables on a large dish, and hand at the same 
time as the soup. 

Bed cabbagre salad a la Busse. 

Cut up a red cabbage into very fine, narrow strips, plunge 
for a minute into boiling salt and water, cool in cold water, 
drain, lay in a deep dish, and sprinkle with salt and tarragon 
vinegar. Stir some mashed hard-boiled yolks of Qg% into half 
a tumblerful of sour cream, season with salt, pepper, chopped 
chervil and tarragon leaves, pour over the cabbage, and garnish 
with a few slices of black radish. 



344 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 9. 

Potage paysanne. Peasant soup. 

Eperlans frits. Fried smelts. 

Entre-cdtes aux pommes soafflte. Broiled ribs of beef and fried 

potatoes. 

Outardes \ la msse. Bustards k la russe. 

Macaroni \ Titalienne. Maccaroni ^ Titalienne. 

Croquettes de semoule. Semolina croquettes. 



Stewed caITs kidneys. 

Trim and mince the kidneys, toss in a sautapan with butter, 
salt, pepper, a pinch of grated nutm^, chopped boiled mush- 
rooms, eschalots, and parsley ; add a little floiu:, and moisten 
with reduced Spanish sauce and white wine ; when thoroughly 
done, stir in a little butter, the juice of a lemon, and serve. 

Chicken firitters. 

Cut up a cold roast chicken into joints, and soak for an hour 
in vinegar seasoned with salt, pepper, and chopped mixed 
herbs ; drain, dry in a cloth, and dip into batter, to which you 
have added some whipped whites of t^ ; fry in melted lard or 
butter, and serve garnished with fried parsley. 

Bustards a la Bnsse. 

Pluck, draw, singe, and truss some young bustards, cut a 
deep slit down each breast, which fill with plenty of butter, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with thin slices of bacon, 
and very thin light paste, brush over with beaten yolks of 
^^Ef ^^^ ^^^^ ^^ the oven. Stir a little brown thickening 
into some rich gravy, and hand in a sauceboat at the same 
time as the bustards. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 345 



DECEMBER 10. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Pptage aux oignons blancs. Pur^e of onions \ la Soubise. 

Saumonfum^. Smoked salmon. 

Esturgeon en matelote. Stewed sturgeon. 

Croquettes de pommes de terre i la Potato croquettes with bechamel 

bechamel. sauce. 

Pilets rotis. Roast pintail. 

Omelette russe au maizena. Maizena omelet ^ la russe. 

Madeleines ^ la fleur d'oranger. Madeleine cakes. 



Stewed Bturffeon. 

Fry some small round slices of bread ; when a good colour, 
drain, and keep warm in the oven. Cut up a piece of stur- 
geon into thin slices, place them in a tin dish, sprinkle with 
melted butter, salt and pepper ; bake for a quarter of an hour 
(be careful to turn the slices offish) ; when done, remove them ; 
stir a little flour into the butter left in the dish, season with 
chopped parsley, chives, and eschalots, moisten with two tum- 
blersful of red wine, and boil for a quarter of an hour ; add the 
fish (do not let it boil), sprinkle with capers, and dish up gar- 
nished with the pieces of fried bread. 

Maizena omelet a la Busse. 

Stir two tablespoonsful of maizena into a pint of milk or 
water, add eight yolks of egg, sprinkle with a little salt and 
pepper, beat well, and pour into a frying-pan in which 
there is some melted butter; cook over a slow fire, and 
hold a salamander over the omelet so as to avoid turning 
it; when done, slide it out of the frying-pan on to a dish, 
sprinkle with a little melted butter, and serve. 



346 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 11. 

Potage pur^e Cr^cy. Pur^e of carrots. 

Grondins sauce aux capres. Fillets of gurnet with caper sauce. 

Perdreaux ^ la parisienne. Partridges \ la parisienne. 

Rosbif roti. Roast beef. 

Salade de cresson de fontaine aux Watercress and potato salad. 

pommes. 

Charlotte de pommes ^ la vanille. Apple Charlotte flavoured with 

vanilla. 



Partridges a la Parisienne. 

Brown your partridges in butter, moisten with stock, white 
wine, and reduced Spanish sauce, simmer for three quarters 
of an hour; when done, remove the partridges, skim all grease 
off the sauce, reduce it, stir in a lump of fresh butter, pass 
through a tammy, and pour over the birds. 

White onion sauce. 

Slice your onions, and boil in veal stock, season with salt 
and pepper, pass through a tammy, stir a little cream into the 
purde, and hand in a sauceboat. If a brown onion sauce is 
required, do not use any cream, and brown the onions in butter 
before boiling them. 

Bedbreasts. 

These little birds can be dressed in a variety of fashions ; if 
for roasting, wrap them up in calfs udders ; they are very good 
in a salmis, or broiled in cases lined with quenelle forcemeat, 
or cooked in beef marrow, sprinkled with chopped mixed herbs, 
lemon juice, and grated crusts of bread. 

Watercress and potato salad. 

Wash, trim, and drain your watercresses, place in a salad- 
bowl with some very thin slices of cold boiled potato. Dress 
with salad sauce (see 3rd of February). 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 347 



DECEMBER 12. 

Potage au riz. Rice soup. 

Gigot de mouton brais^. Braised leg of mutton. 

Mauviettes en cotelettes. Lark cutlets. 

Homards i la bordelaise. Lobsters 4 la bordelaise. 

fipinards au velout^. Spinach with velout^ sauce. 

Glace & la vanille. Vanilla ice. 



Lark cutlets. 

Bone your larks, flatten them out as much as possible to the 
shape of a cutlet, fill all holes with forcemeat, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cook in butter over a quick fire ; when 
done dish up, and cover with any sauce that may be fancied 

Lobsters ^ la Bordelaise. 

Cut up each lobster into eight pieces, break the claws with- 
out spoiling their shape, and boil for twenty-five minutes in 
white wine, seasoned with a head of garlic, laurel leaves, thyme, 
parsley, salt and pepper \ place the cover on the saucepan, and 
stir occasionally to prevent the sauce burning ; when done, dry 
each piece in a cloth, and lay in a clean saucepan. Brown 
some sliced onions and eschalots in butter, stir in a little flour, 
and when quite thick moisten with some of the liquor in which 
the lobsters were boiled, stir over a quick fire for ten minutes, 
add two wine-glasses full of tomato sauce, and a pinch of 
cayenne, as this dish must be highly flavoured; pour thq 
sauce over the lobsters, and warm for a few minutes ; dish up 
the pieces so arranged as to give the appearance of the lobsters 
not having been cut, garnish with the claws, cover with the 
sauce, and serve. 



348 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 13. 

Potage Livonien. Livonian soup. 

'Hion frit. Fried tunny. 

Poulets en fricass^. Fricass^ of chicken. 

Filet de cerf roti. Roast fillet of venison. 

Champignons au gratin. Baked mushrooms and bread- 
crumbs. 

Brioche \ la cr^me. Brioche. 



Livonian soup. 

Mince, blanch, and drain some carrots^ turnips, celery, 
parsley, leeks, and onions, warm in butter, add two handsful 
of washed rice, moisten with the necessary quantity of stock, 
and boil ; when done pass through a tammy, stir in some 
boiled cream and yolks of egg, warm the soup, and pour into 
a soup-tureen on to sippets of fried bread. 

Fried tunny. 

Cut up a piece of tunny into slices about two inches thick, 
soak for three hours in olive oil, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
lemon juice, and chopped parsley ; fry over a slow fire in olive 
oil, and when a good colour dish up, and serve covered with 
r^moulade sauce. 

Boast fillet of venison. 

Trim and lard the fillet with fine strips of bacon, and soak 
for forty-eight hours in white wine and vinegar, seasoned with 
a large bouquet of mixed herbs, onions stuck with cloves, and 
coarse black pepper ; if a large fillet, leave it in soak for three 
or four days. Roast and baste with the liquor in which it was 
soaked ; when done, serve with poivrade sauce, to which you 
have added a little of the dripping of the fillet. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 349 



DECEMBER 14. 

Potage 4 la Saint-Germain. Pea soup 4 la Saint Germain. 

Raie au beurre noir. Skate with black butter sauce. 

Cuisses d*oie grillte 4 la lyonnaise. Broiled goose thighs ^ la lyonnaise. 

Filet de boeuf roti. Roast fillet ol beef. 

C^leri au jus. Stewed celery. 

Madeleines. Madeleine cakes. 



Pea soup ^ la Saint Ghermain. 

Make a pur^e of green peas, add some whole green peas, 
and a little chopped chervil, and serve. If in winter make 
the pur^e of dried peas, add some cream to it, and a few whole 
preserved green peas. 

Broiled ffoose thiffhs ^ la Lyonnaise. 

Slice six big onions, and fry in lard ; when a good colour, 
take them off the fire, and keep hot. Warm three or four 
cold roast goose's thighs in lard ; when done, dish them up, 
cover with the fried onions, and pour either poivrade or 
piquante sauce over them. 

Boast hare k la Finnoise. 

Warm some carrots, turnips, onions, laurel leaves, and a 
bouquet of mixed herbs, in butter, moisten with equal quantities 
of stock and vinegar, and pour over a hare, which you have 
skinned, singed, larded, and placed in a deep pan, fix on the 
lid firmly, and leave for twelve or fifteen hours, after which 
roast the hare, baste with the liquor in which it was soaked, 
and serve. Stir two or thr^e tablespoonsful of sour cream into 
the dripping, and pour over the hare. 



350 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 15. 

PoU^e 4 la Colbert. Soup k la Colbert. 

Coulibiac d'anguilles. Coulibiac of eel. 

Cotelettes de mouton financi^re. Mutton cutlets ^ la financiere. 

Perdreaux rotls. Roast partridges. 

Cardons ^ I'italienne. Cardoons 4 Pitalienne. 

Beignets ^ la Chantilly. Fritters h. la Chantilly. 



Coulibiac of eel (a Bussian dish). 

Make some brioche paste (s;ee 24th of December), but do 
not use any sugar, wrap it up in a cloth, and keep in a warm 
place for twelve or fifteen hours \ after which roll it out to about 
half an inch thick, take half of it and lay in a baking tin, 
on a buttered sheet of paper, cover with alternate layers of 
rice, which has been boiled in water or stock, chopped hard- 
boiled yolks of ^g%^ and fillets of eel ; sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
spice, and chopped mixed herbs, cover with the remainder of 
the paste, make it as much the shape of a ball as possible, 
moisten the edges, so that they may adhere firmly, and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

Fritters a la Chantilly. 

Take a pound of flour, three eggs, and a very fresh cream 
cheese ; stir thoroughly together, add a little white wine, an 
ounce of powdered sugar, and a pinch of salt ; plunge a dessert- 
spoonful at a time of the batter into boiling lard, drain, and 
serve, sprinkled with powdered sugar. 

Fried tendons of veal. 

Trim the tendons, cut them up into pieces about three 
inches long, and soak for an hour in vinegar and water ; after 
which drain them, sprinkle with flour, and fry in either butter 
or lard until a good colour. 



\ 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 351 



DECEMBER 16. 

Potage aux ravioles. Clear soup with raviolis. 

Blanquette de veau. Tendons of veal with white sauce. 

Merlans aux fines herbes. Baked whiting with fine herbs. 

Rdble de li^vre r6ti. Roast baron of hare. 

Puree de c^leri-rave aux croutons. Pur^e of celery-root with fried 

bread. 

Gateau Saint-Louis. Saint Louis cake. 



Tendons of veal with white sauce. 

Cut up a breast of veal or some tendons into small pieces ; 
blanch them, and cook in a saucepan with salt, pepper, a 
bouquet of mixed herbs, young white onions, a little flour, and 
moisten with water ; when done, add a large lump of butter, a 
pinch of grated nutmeg, a few drops of vinegar, and thicken 
the sauce with yolks of egg. 

Effff forcemeat. 

Pound a well-cooked omelet in a mortar with a few hard- 
boiled yolks of egg, butter, and bread panada, made with milk 
(see 2oth of August), stir in some yolks of q%%^ and the whites, 
which must be well whipped. 

Saint Louis cake. 

Line the sides of a shallow tin mould with paste made with 
seven ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, 
and a few drops of water. Pound two ounces of almonds, 
and stir into two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, four 
ounces of sugar, and two whipped whites of t,ggy pour into 
the mould, sprinkle with chopped almonds, and bake in a 
moderate oven ; when done, turn out of the mould, sprinkle 
the almonds with powdered sugar, and serve, either hot or 
cold. 



352 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 17. 

Potage i la pur^ de lentiHes. Puree of lentils. 

Rongets en caisse. Red mullet in cases. 

Navarin de mouton. Haricot mutton. 

Canards sauvages rotis. Roast wild duck. 

Croiite aux champignons. Mushrooms on toast. 

Creme k la vaiuUe. Vanilla cream. 



VanUla cream. 

Boil a stick of vanilla for twenty minutes in a tumbler and 
a half of cream, keep the lid on the saucepan. Stir twelve 
yolks of egg and one whole ^g into half a pound of powdered 
sugar, and a pinch of salt ; remove the vanilla, and add the 
cream drop by drop, pass through a fine silk sieve, and pour 
into a mould lined with melted butter ; cook in a bain-marie, 
place hot coals on the lid ; when the cream is set, turn out of 
the mould, and cover with the following sauce. Stir eight 
yolks of egg into half a pound of sugar and a pinch of salt ; 
place on the fire in a saucepan, add a tumbler and a half of 
cream and a stick of vanilla ; stir the whole time, and when 
thick enough, pour over the cream. 

Kavarin of mutton. 

This is a new name given to the celebrated old dish " Hari- 
cot mutton." 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 353 



DECEMBER 18. 

Consomm^ aux pites d'ltalie. Clear soup with Italian paste. 

Vol-au-vent de quenelles et de Vol-au-vent of fowl and truffle 

godiveaux. forcemeat. 

Rouelles de cerf 4 la Saint-Hubert. Sliced fillet of venison ^ la Saint- 
Hubert. 

Faisan roti. Roast pheasant. 

£pinards 4 Tanglaise. Spinacli a I'anglaise. 

Beignets souffles. Souffle fritters. 



Forcemeat of fowl and traf9.e8. 

Chop up and pound a pound of breast of fowl, half a pound 
of suet, one ounce of spiced salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, 
and four eggs, place in a bowl, and leave in the refrigerator 
for an hour; after which, pound again with some pieces of 
meat glaze, which have been soaked in water, stir in four 
tablespoonsful of chopped truffles, and two tablespoonsful of 
veloutd sauce, and poach in boiling water or stock. 

Sliced flUet of venison k la Saint-Hubert. 

Cut up a fillet of venison into thick slices, lard them with 
thick strips of bacon, warm in a saucepan with either melted 
bacon fat or butter \ moisten with equal quantities of stock 
and red wine, season with salt, pepper, and a bouquet of 
mixed herbs ; cook over a slow fire, stir in a little brown thicken- 
ing, a lump of sugar, and some sliced gherkins. Serve very hot. 
This stew ought to be eaten by all true lovers of venison, the 
day after St. Hubert's day, in which case, some fine preserved 
prunes must be cooked with the venison. 



A a 



354 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 19. 

Potage anx pain grille Clear soap with toast. 

Pito de boeuf anx oignoiis glac^ Boiled beef and glazed onions. 

Cenrelles sauce matelote. CalTs brains stewed in matelote 

sauce. 

Pain de perdreaux. Pur^ of partridge. 

Poisson frit Fried fish. 

MacMoine de l^;umes. Mac^oine of v^ietables. 

Beignets souffle au raaizena. Soi^fi^ maizena fritters. 



CalTs brains 0tew«d in matelota aauoe. 

Trim, soak, and boil the brains, simmer in matelote sauce 
(sec 24th of December), and serve. 

Porte of partridge. 

Make a pur& of partridge the same as for souffle of par- 
tridge (see 17th of October), pour it into a buttered mould, 
and cook in a bain-marie for half an hour ; when done, turn 
out of the mould, and cover with a sauce made of essence 
of game and Spanish sauce. 

Souf9.6 maizena flrittem. 

Warm half a pound of butter, two large lumps of sugar, and 
half a wine-glassful of water in a saucepan; as soon as it 
boils add two ounces of maizena, which you have stirred into 
half a wine-glassful of water, and two ounces and a half of 
wheaten flour ; take the saucepan off the fire, and leave for a 
quarter of an hour, so that the paste may dry, after which, stir 
in three eggs ; if too stiff, add another t%%^ and plunge a table- 
spoonful of the paste at a time into boiling lard. Serve when 
a good colour. ^ 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 355 



DECEMBER ao. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage de semoule au lait. White semolina soup. 

Choux farcis a la russe. Stuffed cabbages 4 la russe. 

Pluviers aux truffes. Stewed plovers and truffles. 

Soles fardes. Stuffed soles. 

Pouding de navets. Turnip pudding. 

Giteau d'amandes. Almond cake. 



Stuffed oablMiffes k la Busse. 

Warm a finely-chopped onion in butter, do not let it brown, 
add some chopped mushrooms, parsley, salt, pepper, a pinch 
of grated nutmeg, and two or three tablespoonsful of semolina, 
and when done, take the saucepan oflf the fire. Pluck the 
finest outside leaves off your cabbages, and place them on one 
side ; cut the cabbages into quarters, blanch, and drain them ; 
cut out the hard pieces from the centres, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and^spread a little of the stuffing between each leaf, 
tie up the pieces of cabbage to their original shape, with the 
large leaves placed round them, and boil in water seasoned 
with onions, carrots, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a lump of 
butter; when done, drain them, and serve. Hand some 
melted butter in a sauceboat. 

Stewed plovers and traf9.e8. 

Pluck, draw and singe the plovers, and warm in butter with 
some carefully peeled truffles, a bouquet of mixed herbs, salt 
and pepper, moisten with brown thickening, and white wine ; 
when done, dish up the plovers and truffles, pass the sauce 
through a tammy, and pour over them \ if the sauce is too 
thin, reduce it. 



A a 2 



356 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 21. 

Potage de riz i la pnrde de pois. Pur^ of peas with rice. 

Pedts tmites bouillies sance ere- Boiled trout, shrimp sauce. 
▼ctte& 

Filets de moaton brais^ Braised fillets of mutton. 

Dinde truffite. Truffled turkey-hen, 

Cderi an jus. Stewed celery. 

Beignets de pommes. Apple fritters. 



TmiBed tvrkey-hen. 

Fed your truffles, and warm them in a saucepan with 
scraped bacon ; when cold, roll them in minced bacon highly 
seasoned with chopped herbs, salt and pepper ; stuff a turkey- 
hen with the truffles and stuffing, cover it with slices of bacon, 
wrap up in a cloth, and hang it for eight days ; after which, 
cover it with fresh slices of bacon, a sheet of buttered paper, 
and roast. 

Apple firitters. 

Peel some fine russet apples, scoop out the cores, and cut 
them into quarters, soak for an hour in brandy, flavoured with 
cinnamon and green lemon peel ; after which, drain them and 
dip into thin batter, fry in melted lard or butter ; when a good 
colour, place on a baking dish, sprinkle with sugar, and glaze, 
either in the oven or with the salamander;, dish up in a 
pyramid, and serve very hot. 

A srood sauce for cold scraps of meat. 

Make some Robert sauce, and thicken it with yolks of egg, 
flavour with a few drops of vinegar and mustard ; warm the 
scraps in the Robert sauce before thickening it, and do not let 
it boil 



THE 366 BILLS OB FARE. 357 



DECEMBER 22. 

Potage au sagou. Sago soup. 

Chiteaubriand au beurre d'anchois. Fillets of beef with anchovy butter. 

Pieds de mouton frits. Fried sheep's trotters. 

Mauviettes grilles. Broiled larks. 

Pommes de terre Macaire. Fried potatoes ^ la Macaire. 

Gdteau Saint-Charles. Saint-Charles cake. 



Broiled laxks. 

This manner of cooking larks is expeditious, and often 
stands a cook in good stead. Pluck and singe the larks, 
cover them with slices of bacon, place on the gridiron over a 
quick fire, turn them, and remove before quite finished cook- 
ing ; place on a buttered tin dish, and put in the oven until 
done, dish up the larks on slices of fried bread, pour the 
melted butter over them, and serve. 

Mutton outlets a la finanoi^re. 

Lard your cutlets, braise them, and dish up garnished k la 
financibre (see 27th of December). 

Saint-Charles cake. 

Blanch and pound half a pound of Jordan almonds, moisten 
with the white of an egg, and two tablespoonsful of orange- 
flower water, flavour with grated lemon peel; add four yolks 
of egg, half a pound of powdered sugar, stir for several 
minutes, after which, add the four whites of egg well whipped, 
pour into a shallow plain mould, the sides of which must be 
lined with very thin light paste, turn in the edges of the paste 
so that the almond mixture shall not burn, and place in a 
slow oven ; as soon as the cake begins to brown, cover it with 
a sheet of paper, and when done, turn out of the mould, and 
serve. 



358 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 23. 

Potage paysanne. Peasant soup. 

Noix dc veau k la pur^c d'oseille. Chump of veal with pur^ of sond. 

Carpe gnll^e. Broiled carp. 

Quartier de venaison r6tL Roast forequarter of venison. 

Epinards au jus. Stewed spinach. 

Giteau Saint-Honor^. Saint-Honor^ cdcew 



Porte of ■orrel. 

Pick, wash, drain, and thoroughly dry your isorrel leaves, 
soak them in boiling water for ten minutes, stir with a drainer 
the whole time ; after which, drain, and when cold, place in a 
saucepan with brown thickening, and some uncleared stock, 
which has been passed through a tammy ; as soon as it boils, 
put the saucepan by the fireside and simmer the sorrel until 
done ; clear off all grease, pass through a tammy, and keep 
warm until time to serve with a roast chump of veal. 

Boast forequarter of venison. 

Bone, beat, and sprinkle the venison with salt. Make some 
paste with flour, eggs, a little water, and a pinch of salt, leave 
in a cool place for an hour, after which, roll it out very thin ; 
lay slices of bacon on the venison, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Wrap it up carefully in the paste, stick the edges 
firmly together by moistening them with a little water ; cover 
the whole with a buttered sheet of paper, and roast ; when 
nearly done, remove the paper, and brown the paste, take the 
joint off the spit very carefully, and serve. Hand poiviade 
sauce, and red currant jelly separately. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 359 



DECEMBER 24. 

Riz k la Cr^. Cr^cy soup with rice. 

Raie anx fines herbes, Skate with mixed herbs. 

Civet de li^vre. QXrtX. of hare. 

Oie r6tie farde de marrons. Goose stuffed with chestnuts, 

Salsifis frits. Fried salsifis. 

Brioche k la crbne. Brioche. 



Bxioohe. 

Take a pound of flour, a quarter of an ounce of salt, half an 
ounce of powdered sugar, six eggs, a pint of whipped cream, 
and three quarters of a pound of fresh butter ; take a quarter 
of the flour, make a well in the centre of it, add a little German 
yeast, and stir in sufficient luke-warm milk to make a soft 
paste; place it in an earthenware pan with a lid, and leave in a 
warm place until risen to twice its original size. Make a well 
in the remainder of the flour, add the salt, sugar, butter, and 
the eggs, one at a time, when quite smooth, stir in the whipped 
cream and the paste made with yeast, and leave for three hours ; 
after which, stir the paste with a spoon, and place it in a but- 
tered mould, bake in a quick oven, and when done, turn out of 
the mould, and serve. 

Katelote sauce. 

Brown some young onions in butter; when done, remove 
them, moisten the butter with equal quantities of white or red 
wine and stock, season with salt, pepper, and a bouquet of 
mixed herbs ; boil the sauce, reduce it, add the onions, and 
some blanched mushrooms, and serve. 



360 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 25. 



Potage 4 la pur^ de poireaux. 

Matelote d'anguille. 

Saut^ de filets de volaille. 

Filet de mouton r6ti. 

Cro{ite aux champignons. 

Pommes en croustade. 



Pur^ of leeks. 

Stewed eel. 

Fillets of fowl cooked in butter. 

Roast fillet of mutton. 

Mushrooms on toast. 

Apple tart. 



Pilleta of fowl oooked in butter. 

PiUet one or two fowls, remove the skin and nerves, wet the 
comer of the kitchen table, take a fillet at a time, hold it down 
quite flat and firmly with one hand, and pass a knife between 
it and the table, which will cause the second skin of the fillet 
to stick to the wet wood. Cook the fillets in a saucepan with 
melted butter ; when done, drain them, and dish up in a circle 
with alternate pieces of fiied bread, fill the centre with either 
German, Italian, or bechamel sauce, or with a pur^e of 
game. 



Golden thiokeningr. 

Melt a pound of butter in a saucepan, add sufficient wheaten 
flour to make it slightly thick, stir over the fire, and as soon as 
the sauce begins to colour, make a smaller fire, and simmer 
until done. Keep the thickening in a covered jar until 
required. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 361 



DECEMBER 26. 

Potage de consomm^ aux quenelles. Clear soup with quenelles. 

Harengs fum^ k la bruxelloise. Smoked herrings ^ la bruxelloise. 

Poulet k la Marengo. Chicken k la Marengo. 

Filet de pore r6ti. Roast fillet of pork. 

Pommes sautes. Fried potatoes. 

Gel^e au marasquin. Maraschino jelly. 



Smoked herrinfirs i, la Bruxelloise. 

Hold the herrings over hot steam or cinders, after which 
skin and fillet them, oil a large paper case, and place the fillets 
round it ; stir some chopped mushrooms, parsley, mixed herbs, 
chives, eschalots, a little garlic, and white pepper into a large 
lump of butter, spread a layer of this stuffing between each 
fillet, sprinkle with olive oil and grated bread crust ; broil on the 
gridiron over a quick fire, and when done, dish up in the case, 
and hand pieces of lemon separately. 

Ohipken d la Marenero. 

Cut up your chicken into joints, and warm in a saucepan, 
with butter, a little gravy, minced ham, slices of onion, salt 
and pepper, toss over a quick fire; as soon as the chicken 
and onions are cooked, and a good colour, sprinkle with lemon 
juice, and serve. 

Bavigrote provenjale sauce. 

Boil a teacupful of clear stock over a slow fire, season 
with two heads of garlic, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a 
pinch of white pepper ; when reduced, remove the garlic and 
herbs, add a teacupful of tarragon vinegar and the same 
quantity of meat glaze ; reduce, pass through a tammy, stir in 
some chopped tarragon and chervil leaves, a lump of butter the 
size of a walnut, and serve. 



362 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 27. 

Potage Baraqoiiie. Baiaqnme soiq>. 

Boncb^ anx hnftres. Oyster patties. 

Turbot SBiice crerettes. Tnrbot, shnmp sance. 
Filet de boeof rdti garni d'an nigo^ Roast fillet of beef garnished \ la 

finand^re. finand^re. 

Paon r5ti on en danbe. Cold roast ov braised peacock. 

Cro6te anx champignons. Mushrooms on toasL 

Bavarois gUu£ Iced Bavarian cream. 

Odd xoast or temisad pe Q Co ek . 
Do not pluck your peacock, but skin it carefully, so as not 
to disturb the feathers, take care not to spoil the head and 
neck, lard the breasts with fine strips of bacon, and roast ; when 
done, leave until cold, after which, place the feathers on the 
bird in their original position, raise the head and neck with a 
piece of wire, spread out die tail in a fim shape, and serve. 
As a peacock dressed with its feathers must be served cold, it 
is nicer braised than roasted, as the stuffing seasons it more 
highly ; in this case prepare it the same as cold braised goose 
(see 27th of February). This dish is a magnificent ornament 
on a dinner or supper table. 

Sauce a la flnaaciteo. 

Boil three or four tablespoonsfiil of minced raw ham, some 
truffle trimmings, mushrooms, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and 
three whole black peppers in equal quantities of stock and 
white wine, reduce to half the original quantity, dear off all 
grease, and pass through a tammy. Stir some stock into a 
little brown thickening in a separate saucepan, reduce, add the 
previously made sauce, and serve. 

Gazx&iah a la flnanoidre. 

Cook some foie gras, cockscombs, and livers, chicken 
quenelles, mushrooms, and truffles in financi^re sauce, and use 
garnish. 




THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



363 



DECEMBER 28. 



Pur^ de navets aux croutons. 

Monies 4 la Villeroi. 

C6telettes de chevreuil sautes. 

Poularde r6tie. 

TrufTes sous la cendre. 

Darioles au riz. 



Puree of turnips and fried toast. 

Mussels a la Villeroi. 

Stewed roebuck cutlets. 

Roast pullet 

Broiled truffles. 

Duchess cakes. 



Villeroi sauce. 

Warm some fresh butter, stir in a little flour and white stock, 
add an onion stuck with cloves, chopped ham, mushroom 
trimmings, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; boil for twenty-five 
minutes, pass through a tammy, thicken with yolks of ^%% and 
cream, and serve. 

stewed roebuck outlets. 

Sprinkle the cutlets with salt and pepper, cook them in a 
saucepan with melted butter ; when half done, turn them, add 
a little flour, moisten with equal quantities of white wine and 
stock, season with chopped eschalots, parsley, and blanched 
mushrooms ; remove the cutlets when done, place them round 
an entree dish ; reduce the sauce, pass it through a tammy, 
and pour over the cutlets. 



Broiled truffles. 



Wash and peel your truffles, wrap them up in slices of bacon, 
sprinkled with salt and pepper, cover each one with four pieces 
of paper, which have been dipped in cold water, bury the truffles 
in hot cinders, and leave for a quarter of an hour; after which 
remove the first two pieces of paper, and serve. 



364 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 29. 

Potage au tapioca Cr^cy. Cr^cy soup with tapioca. 

Brumes grill^es a la mayonnaise. Broiled sea-bream, Mayonnaise 

sauce. 

Gigot de sept heures. Stewed leg of mutton. 

B^casses roties en salmis de table. Salmis of woodcock. 

Ponding de navets. Turnip pudding. 

Macedoine de fruits au champagne. Mac^doine of fruit with champagne. 



Salmis of 'woodoook. 

This dish is often prepared at table. Cut up some roast 
woodcock into joints, place the dish over a spirit lamp, sprinkle 
the pieces of bird with salt, pepper, chopped eschalots, white 
wine, lemon juice', a little melted butter, and grated bread- 
crust; simmer for ten minutes; take care to turn the joints 
when half done, and serve very hot 

Turnip pudding*. 

Wash, blanch, peel, and dry some fine large turnips, cut up 
into slices, and warm in a saucepan with melted butter, 
add salt, pepper, and a pinch of powdered sugar, stir in some 
reduced white bechamel sauce, boil for a minute, pass through 
a tammy, and add sufficient eggs to make the pur^e . a good 
substance, pour into a well-buttered mould, which has a well 
in the centre, cook in a bain-marie, and when done, turn out 
of the mould, garnish the centre with prettily-cut vegetables, 
which have been cooked in bechamel sauce, and serve. A 
little double cream is a great improvement to this dish, which 
can also be made of pumpkin, spinach, or carrots. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE, 365 



DECEMBER 30. 

MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. 

Potage de poisson aux herbes. Fish soup with chopped herbs. 

Croquettes de riz au parmesan. Rice croquettes and Parmesan 

cheese. 

Filets de sarcelles aux anchois. Fillets of teal and anchovies. 

Brochet sauce ravigote proven9ale. Pike, proven9ale ravigote sauce. 

Pur^e de pommes de terre gratin^e. Baked pur^e of potatoes. 

Gel^ d'oranges. Orange jelly. 



Fisli soup witli chopped herbs. 

Cook some chopped lettuce, chervil, celery, and sorrel 
leaves in fish stock. Stir some yolks of egg into a little stock ; 
when thick, add to the boiling soup and vegetables, and as 
soon as done, pour into a soup-tureen on to slices of bread, 
which have been sprinkled with either olive oil or melted 
butter. 

Fillets of teal and anchovies. 

Fillet your teal, which have been about three quarters 
roasted, lay them on a tin dish, which has been slightly 
buttered and sprinked with grated parmesan cheese ; place a 
fillet of anchovy on each piece, moisten with stock, sprinkle 
with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and bake in 
the oven, or on the gridiron ; in the latter case you must hold 
a salamander over the fillets so as to brown them. Squeeze 
the juice of a lemon over them before serving. 

Baked puree of potatoes. 

Peel, wash, and chop up your potatoes, cook them in a 
saucepan with a little water, a lump of butter, salt, and a pinch 
of grated nutmeg, place hot coals on the lid of the saucepan ; 
when done, mash the pieces of potato with a wooden spoon ; 
if the pur^e is too thin, reduce it, stir in a lump of butter, 
pour into a tin dish, and brown in the oven. 



366 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 



DECEMBER 31. 

Bisqne d'^crevisses. Crayfish soup. 

Poule au riz. Boiled fowl and rice. . 

Filets de sole en turban. Baked fillets of sole turban fiishion. 

Hure de sanglier. Boar's head. 

Salade de legumes. Vegetable salad. 

Gftteau aux aman^es. almond cake. 



Boar's head. 

Boil some laurel leaves, mixed herbs, heads of cloves, and 
whole black peppers, in very strong salt and water, pass through 
a tammy, and leave until cold. Singe and scrape the boar's 
head, be careful not to cut the skin, clean out the nostrils and 
ears with a hot iron, wash and bone the head, spread it out on 
a table, cut off all the flesh, and divide it into narrow fillets. 
Put the empty head to soak in the brine. Soak the fillets 
and a few slices of the boar's flesh in white wine, seasoned 
with onions carrots, herbs, salt, pepper, and mixed spice ; leave 
both head and fillets to soak for twenty-four hours, turn them 
occasionally, and when required for use, drain, dry, and spread 
them out on a table, with the inside of the head turned up- 
wards. Have some fillets of rabbit, breasts of chicken and 
partridge, two sliced pickled tongues, and sliced truffles ready 
prepared ; pound the carcases of the rabbits and birds in a 
mortar, with a few slices of veal and bacon ; spread a layer of 
this forcemeat on the head, and fill it up with the fillets of 
of boar, rabbit, chicken, partridge, tongue, and truffles ; if 
there are any interstices stop them up with forcemeat, sew up 
the head to its original shape, tie it up tightly in a cloth, and 
place in a braising-pan with mirepoix made with Madeira ; 
when cooked, drain it, tie a broad tape round the head, over 
the snout, leave for twenty-four hours, after which cut off the 
tape, cover the head with lard, and sprinkle with grated bread- 
crust. 



THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 367 



Beamaise sauce. 

Stir five or six yolks of egg in a saucepan over a slow fire \ 
when quite thick add the same quantity of melted meat glaze 
as there are eggs, do not let it boil, flavour with the juice of 
two lemons, a few drops of vinegar, and the essence of seven 
or eight eschalots, which make by pounding them and squeez- 
ing the juice through a cloth ; stir the sauce with a wooden 
spoon, and hand in a sauceboat 

Ouxry sauoe. 

Take three ounces of butter and a dessert-spoonful of curry 
powder, stir over the fire until the butter begins to brown, 
moisten with veloutd sauce and stock ; if you have no veloutd, 
use strong gravy ; reduce, skim off all grease, and warm in a 
bain-marie ; when ready to serve, stir in a lump of butter, and 
if not sufficiently highly seasoned add a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. 



INDEX. 



^^^>*^^>^^>^>^<^^^^ 



Allemande, or German sance, 93. 

Almond batter, 245. 

Almond cake, 45, 276. 

Almond cream, 79. 

Almond toffee, 138. 

Almonds, green, k la d'Escars, 216. 

Anchovies, stuffed, 154. 

Anchovy butter, 96, 138. 

Anchovy omelet, 243. 

Anchovy sauce, 152. 

Apple Charlotte, 298. 

Apple fritters, 356. 

Apple fritters k la d'Orl^ans, 68. 

Apple open tart, iii. 

Apple pudding, 253. 

Apples, chartreuse or marmalade of, 

62. 
Apples stewed with rice, 93, 130. 
Apples stewed, 50* 
Apricots broiled a la Breteuil, 181. 
Apricots, compote of ripe, 171. 
Apricots k la Cond^, 194. 
Apricots, green, in compote, 202. 
Apricot fritters with brandy, 94. 
Apricot fritters, 175. 
Apricot open tart k la Mettemich, 

172. 
Apricot tart k la bonne femme, 221. 
Artichokes k la bonne femme, 61. 
Artichokes, fried, 69. 
Artichokes with Italian sauce, 44. 
Artichokes k Titalienne, 51. 
Artichokes k la lyonnaise, 250. 
Artichokes, puree of, for soup, 47. 
Artichokes, pur^e of, 47. 
Artichokes stewed with essence of 

ham, 148. 



Artichokes stuffed k la barigoule, I, 

82. 
Artidiokes stuffed, 281. 
Asparagus with butter sauce, 108. 
Asparagus chopped with cream, 157. 
Asparagus with cream, 90. 
Asparagus-heads stewed, 1 19. 
' Asparagus with oil and vinegar, 

74. 
Asparagus k la Pompadour, 144. 

Asparagus with white sauce, 6iS. 

Aspic of crayfish, 327. 



B. 



Bab A, or rum cake, 186. 

Bacon omelet, 118. 

Bain-Marie, 219. 

Baked barbel with Parmesan cheese, 

162. 
Baked briU, 51, 85. 
Baked cardoons with bread-crumbs, 

317. 

Bsdced cauliflower with bread- 
crumbs, 28. 

Baked cheese, 337. 

Baked eggs, 256. 

Baked eg^ with cheese, 224. 

Baked fiUets of sole with bread- 
crumbs, 94. 

Baked fillets of sole turban fashion, 

113. 

Baked fillets of whiting with bread- 
crumbs, 44. 

Baked fillets of whiting, 310. 

Baked ices, 151. 

Baked mushrooms, 84. 

Baked ox-tongue, 74. 



INDEX. 



369 



Baked pur^e of potatoes with 

bread-crumbs, 19. 
Baked pur^e of potatoes, 365. 
Baked raviolis, 334. 
Baked salt cod with bread-crumbs, 

103. 
Baked slice of sturgeon, 238. 
Baked smelts, 26. 
Baked turbot, 95, 231. 
Baked weaver or sea-dragon, 135. 
Baked whiting with fine herbs, 4. 
Baked whiting and bread-crumbs, 

321. 

Barbel baked with Parmesan cheese, 

162. 
Barbel broiled, 121. 
Barbel stewed, 200. 
Barbel boiled in court-bouillon, 23. 
Barley, puree of, 54. 
Baron of hare roasted, 331. 
Bass with tartare sauce, 11. 
Bass, boiled, 81. 
Batter, 318. 

Bavarian maizena cream, 319. 
Beans, French, k Tanglaise, iii. 
Beans, French, and haricot beans a 

la maltre d'h6tel, 133. 
Beans, French, ^ la poulette, 195. 
Beans, ;French, with white sauce, 108, 
Beans, haricot, k la bretonne, 33. 
Beans, haricot, with capsicum 

butter, 312. 
Beans, haricot, ^ la mattre d'hotel, 

211. 
Beans, haricot, and marrow, 235. 
Beans, puree of haricot, 184. 
Beans, pur^e of white haricot, 310. 
Beans, red haricot, 4 la bourgui- 

gnonne, 80 
Beef, boiled, ^ la flamande, 276. 
Beef, boiled, and garnished with 

German paste, 288. 
Beef, boiled, with cabbage, 27. 
Beef, braised brisket, ^ la flamande. 

Beef, braised ribs, with maccaroni,6i. 

Beef, braised ribs, pur^e of toma- 
toes, 22. 

Beef, braised sirloin, ^ la royale, 57. 

Beef, broiled brisket, with bread- 
crumbs, 320. 



Beef, broiled fillets, k la Chiteau- 

briand, 62. 
Beef, braised chump, 153. 
Beef, fillet, roasted, 4. 
Beef, fillets, with poivrade sauce, 

181, 316. 
Beef, hashed, boiled, 262. 
Beef, marrow, ^ la Orly, 150. 
Beef, ribs, stewed, 185. 
Beef, ribs, k la bordelaise, 292, 320. 
Beef, roast fillet, with Madeira 

sauce, 91. • 

Beef, roast, with forcemeat patties, 

175- 
Bee^ roast, with potatoes, 160. 

Beef, sliced fillet ^ la finan9iere, 280. 

Beef, sirloin, ^ la provenQale, i79> 

Beef, vol-au-vent of tendons, 147. 

Beetroot with cream, 43. 

Beetroot fritters, 314. 

Beetroot ^ la poitevine, 337. 

Biscuits, butter, 113. 

Biscuits, cheese, k la Saint Denis, 

131. 
Black-cock, roast, 298, 326. 

Black diver with chocolate sauce, 

264. 
Black diver, salmis of, 254. 
Blanc-mange, 307. 
Blanc-mange of almonds, 60. 
Blanc-mange of coffee, 118. 
Boar, cutlets, 4 la Saint Hubert, 316. 
Boar, fillet, authasseur, 319. 
Boar, haunch, k la royale, 263. 
Boar's head, 366. 
Boeuf ^ la mode, 47, 161. 
Boiled bass, 81. 
Boiled beef, hashed, 262. 
Boiled beef ^ la flamande, 276. 
Boiled beef garnished with German 

paste, 288. 
Boiled brisket of beef. 320. 
Boiled carp in beer, 159. 
Boiled cabbage and bacon, 255. 
Boiled calf s ieet, 262. 
Boiled capon, 188. 
Boiled eggs, 134. 
Boiled fowl in stock, 71. 
Boiled ham ^ la maillot, 303. 
Boiled leg of mutton and vegetables, 

299. 

B b 



^i 



BmTgT sfesi in jaMt-^twf7TnfT>, 
Bailexsiice jf cad widk.qQ{ 






ib Niicr- 



ffcr^Tt vif bare. ^£ 



frTp*Tt ct vQinig^ TiUhhtt X n. Rjdb^ 



^ • 



213. 

of eeis roasoed. 1C4. 

of ycung raMgis wsterf, "T- 

Bnfxxs. calTs scewed m Marrir i fr 

351- 

M9. ,,^ 

IntC or wid:^ ^7- 

^^'^'**'f Ivesstsaf InBb wiA aspA* 
"g«s» 79. 

BaisedbRatstof BBBtton, 153. 

Bnzsed duBtp of bec^ 15^ 

Braised dndk aa pte DomDet^ 17SL 

Braised dack and turnips^ 187. 

Braised goose i la Oiipnlatay 516. 

Braised goose, cold, 5&. 

Braised loin of real, larded, 265. 

Braised kg of mntton, 204. 

Braised leg of mnnqp k la Doiand^ 

257. 
Braised ox-tongue, 261 
Braised partridges, 3cxx 
Braised partridges k la Cnssy, ^l. 
Braised peacock,, cold, 562. 
Braised pig's ears, 184. 
Braised plover, 244. 
Braised pullet with white sauce, 

217. 
Braised ribs of beef, 22. 
Braised ribs of beef with maccaroni, 

61. 
Braised mrap-steak, 117. 
Braised saddle of mutton, 2. 
Braised saddle of lamb garnished 

with rissoles, 180. 
Braised sheep's tongue, 157. 
Braised sirlom of l^ef k ik royale, 

57. 



Bt3xseci 



1S9. 



BveiEsc ofiaiKb hrawfil witli 



with 



«33. 



BircKt of ■■»!« widi piqaaite 

sneers. ' 
Rresst of BBttoofafaJsed, 155. 
Breast aod aeck of Tesl widi aspart- 

gas-bads, 96. 
Breast of ¥cali la pooletl^ 1^4. 
Breast gf Teal with green peas^ 144. 
BriQ, baked. 51, 85. 
Bdll with bechamd sanoe, i, 64. 
BriQ k la Onti, 50. 
Brill with dipkimatic sancC) 13. 
Brill k la panTcn^ale, 262. 
Brill a la Sainte-Mendioold, 15. 
Brill stewed with mixed herbs, 122. 
Brioche, 3S9. 

Bri^etofbeefklaflamande, 145. 
Brisket of beef with bfcad-otunbs, 

320. 
Broad beans with cream, 153. 
Broiled apricots k la Breteuil, l8i. 
Broikd barbel, 121. 
Broiled bass with tartare sauce, ii. 
Broiled calTs brains, 239. 
Broiled carp, 185. 
BroOed fillets of beef i la Chiteau- 

briand, 62* 
Broiled grey mnUet, 97. 
Broiled goose's thighs k la Saint 

Germain, 349. 
Broiled larks, 357. 
Broiled mackerel k la maftre d'hote], 

II. 
Broiled pigeons, 190. 
Broiled plaice, 76. 
Broiled rabbit, 253. 
Broiled salmon, 132. 
Broiled shad k h, maitre d'h6iel, 

43- 
Broiled shad with sorrd, 53, 70. 
Broiled tench, 40, 92. 
Broiled tunny with pnr^ of sorrel, 

233. 
BroUed truffles, 363. 



INDEX, 



371 



Broiled veal sausages, 313. 
Broiled whiting, 139. 
Broiled young rabbits in cases, 77. 
Broiled young ring-doves, 220. 
Brown fricassee of fowl, 283. 
Brown thickening, 107, 309. 
Brussels sprouts with butter, 25. 
Burnt cream, 170. 
Bustards, roast, 270. 
Bustards k la russe, 344. 
Butter, almond, 245. 
Butter, anchovy, 96, 138. 
Butter biscuits, 113. 
Butter, capsicum, 196. 
Butter, filbert, 198. 
Butter, garlic, 131. 
Butter, Gascony, 213. 
Butter, lobster, 50, 143. 
Butter, maltre<i'h6tel, 83. 
Buttered eggs, 272. 



C. 



Cabbage and bacon, boiled, 255. 

Cabbage, pickled, and oysters, 57. 

Cabbage, stuffed, 63. 

Cabbage, stuffed, k la russe, 355. 

Cake, almond, 45, 276. 

Cake, baba, or rum, 186. 

Cake, choux, or light batter, 125. 

Cake, cougloff, or German, 117. 

Cake, duchess, 85. 

Cake, duchess k fa patissi^re, 196. 

Cake, lead, 107. 

Cake, Madeleine, 126. 

Cake, pistachio, 95. 

Cake, rice, 90, icx>. 

Cake, Saint Charles, 357. 

Cake, Saint Louis, 351. 

Cake, Savoy, or sponge, 226. 

Calf s brain fritters, 91, 234. 

Calfs brains k la proven^ale, 183. 

CalPs brains, broiled, 239. 

Calfs brains, 354. 

Calfs ears stewed with mushrooms, 

135- 
Calfs ears, staffed, 195. 

Calfs ears k Titalienne, 167. 

Calfs ears fried in batter, 213. 

Calfs feet> boiled, 262. 

B b 



Calfs feet, fried, 269. 

Calfs head k la Destiliere, 42. 

Calfs head, stewed, 24. 

Calfs head, stuffed, 245. 

Calfs kidney, roasted, 1 14. 

Calfs kidnev, stewed, 344. 

Calfs liver a I'italienne, 88. 

Calf s liver, roasted, 115. 

Calfs liver forcemeat, 164. 

Calfs sweet-breads on skewers, 312. 

Calfs tongue with tomato sauce, 56. 

Caper sauce, 124. 

Capon, boiled, 188. 

Capon k la r^gence, 238. 

Capon, roast, with watercress, 12. 

Capsicum butter, 196. 

Cardoons, baked, with bread- 
crumbs, 317. 

Cardoons for feast day, 286. 

Cardoons for fast day, 342. 

Cardoons k I'italienne, 317. 

Cardoons, pur^ of, 295. 

Cardoons stewed with marrow, 40. 

Cardoons, stewed, 282. 

Cardoons with white sauce, 264. 

Carp boiled in beer, 159. 

Carp, broiled, 185. 

Carp k la Chambord, 18. 

Carp, fried, 8. 

Carp k la Marini^re, 172. 

Carp, pickled, 10. 

Carp, roe, scalloped, 304. 

Carp k la russe, 335. 

' Carp, stewed, 61. 

Carrots, glazed, 97. 

Carrots k la m^nag^re, 213. 

Carrots, puree of, 192. 

Carrots stewed in sugar and cream, 
165. 

Cauliflower baked with bread- 
crumbs, 28. 

Cauliflower with butter sauce, 27. 

Cauliflower with cheese, 168 

Cauliflower fritters, 3. 

Celery roots with butter sauce, 22. 

Celery, stewed, 8. 

Chartreuse of apple, 62. 

Cheese, baked, 337. 

Cheese biscuits a la Saint Denis, 
131. 

Cheese fondu, 250. 

2 



372 



INDEX, 



Chestnuts, compote of^ 307. 
Chestnuts, puree of, 44, 31a 
Chestnuts, puree of, k la Mancelle^ 

334. 
Chicory, puree of, with cream, 56. 

Chicory, puree of, with fried br^d, 

48. 
Chicken ^ la bonne femme, 54. 
Chicken k la Chivry, 280. 
Chicken croquettes, 175. 
Chicken a la d'Escars, 1 14. 
Chicken fried ^ la Orly, 189. 
Chicken fritters, 228, 344. 
Chicken glaze, 87. 
Chicken grilled i la Chasseur, 73. 
Chicken I I'italienne, 156. 
Chicken ^ la Marengo, 155, 361. 
Chicken patties, 156. 
Chicken patties, small, 295. 
Chicken and nee, 19. 
Chicken, roast, 4 la hambouigeoisey 

224. 
Chicken with tarragon, 9. 
Chocolate cream, 71. 
Chocolate fingers with cream, 71. 
Chopped asparagus with cream, 157. 
Choux or light batter cakes, 125. 
Chub stewed with glazed onions, 239. 
Chump of veal 4 la bourgeoise, 17. 
Chump of veal braised, 153. 
Chump of veal with chicory, 46. 
Chump of veal roasted, 143. 
Chump of veal with pur6e of sorrel, 

6. 
Civet of hare, 275. 
Clear soup with chervil leaves, 88. 
Clear stock i la fran9aise, 86. 
Cod with bechamel sauce, 141. 
Cod, boiled, slice, with egg sauce, 

340. 
Cod a la hollandaise, 72. 
Cod and potatoes, 52. 
Cod, slices, with cream sauce, 3. 
Cod, stuffed, 329. 
Cod, salt, with black butter, iii. 
Cod, salt, baked, with bread-crumbs, 

103. 
Cod, salt, cream of, 1 10, 315. 
Cod, salt, fried, 294. 
Cod, salt, i la maitre d1i6tel, 87. 
Cod, salt, tails k I'anglaise, 274I 



Coffee blanc-mange, 1 1&. 

Cold braised goose, 58. 

Cold glazed fillets o^ partridge, 286. 

Cold pies, and how to make them, 

119. 

Cold roast or braised peacock, 362. 

Cold stewed hare, 283. 

Comp6te of chestnuts, 307. 

Compote of green apricots, ixyi. 

Compote of greengages, 225. 

Comp6te of fruit i la Normande, 18. . 

Compote of (»range, 43. 

Comp6te of peaches, 197, 242. 

Compote of pear, 289. 

Compote of red or white goose- 
berries, 167. 

Comp6te of ripe apricots, 171. 

Cornflour lamequins, 223. 

CouglofiT, or German cake, 117. 

Coulibiac of eel, 350. 

Court-bouillon, 'or white wine sauce, 
109. 

Crayfi^, aspic of, 327. 

Crayfish, boiled, 34. 

Crayfish ^ la bordelaise, 7. 

Crajrfish patties, 169. 

Crayfish, roast, sea, 234. 

Crayfish soup, 32. 

Crayfish, stock, 342. 

Cream, almond, 79. 

Cream, burnt, 170. 

Cream, Bavarian maizena, 319. 

Cream pastry, 113. 

Cream quenelles, 76. 

Cream of salt cod, no, 315. 

Cream sauce, 142, 155. 

Cream, tea, 1 6a 

Cream, vanilla, 352. 

Cream, virgin, 143, 237. 

Cream, whipped strawberry and 
raspberry, 120. 

Crecy, or carrot soup, 18. 

Croquantes, or almond toffee, 138. 

Croquenbouche, 139. 

Croquettes, chicken, 175. 

Croquettes of German paste, 215. 

Croquettes, ox palate, ^73, 203. 

Croquettes, potato, 294, 320. 

Croquette^, rice, 162. 

Croustade of rice, 190. 

Cucumbers vith bechamel sauce, 202. 



INDEX, 



373 



Cucumbers, stuffed, 198. 

Currant dumplings, 314. 

Currant fritters 4 la Dauphine, 274. 

Curry soup with rice, 49. 

Curry sauce, 366. 

Custard, three cornered puffs, 290. 

Cutlets, boar, k la Saint Hubert, 316. 

Cutlets, lamb, with French beans, 

281. 
Cutlets, lamb, with pur^e of car- 

doons, 290. 
Cutlets, lark, 347. 
Cutlets, mutton, with tomato sauce, 

87. 

Cutlets, mutton, ^ la jardiniere, no. 

Cutlets, mutton, ^ la financiere, 357. 

Cutlets, pigeon, with green peas, 205. 

Cutlets, pork, with poivrade sauce, 
189. 

Cutlets, pork, 240. 

Cutlets, roebuck, stewed, 363. 

Cutlets, veal, ^ la milanaise, 106. 

Cutlets, veal, ^lagingarat, 127, 187. 

Cutlets, veal, with pur6e of mush- 
rooms, 297. 

Cutlets, veal, in cases, 338. 

Cutlets, young rabbit, with tomato 
sauce, 196. 



D. 



Dabs, fried, 46, 210. 

Duchess cakes, 85. 

Duchess cakes 4 la patissi^re, 196. 

Duck, braised, au p^re Douillet, 178. 

Duck, braised, and turnips, 187. 

Duck and olives, stewed, 279. 

Duck and peas, stewed, 295. 

Duck, stuffed, 268. 

Duck, thighs, in salmis, 112. 

Duck and turnips, stewed, 49. 

Duckling, roast, 47. 

Dumpling, currant, 314. 



E. 

Eel, brace, roasted, 104. 
Eel, coulibiac of, 350. 
Eel, fried, ^%, 



Eel and rabbit, stewed, 123, 

Eel, roast, 182. 

Eel ^ Tanglaise, 68. 

Eel ^ la bordelaise, 94. 

Eel ^ la minute, 2. 

Eel \ la poulette, 192. 

Eel a la Suffren, 9. 

Eel \ la tartare, 253. 

Eel pout, fricassee with lettuce, 203. 

Eel pout, stewed, 151, 250. 

Eel pout 4 I'italienne, 219. 

Eel pout ^ la parisienne, 162. 

Eel pout ^ la prussienne, 197. 

Eggs, baked with cheese, 224. 

Eggs, baked, 256. 

Eggs, boiled, 134. 

Eggs, buttered with asparagus 

heads, 141. 
Eggs, buttered, 272. 
Eggs with cream sauce, 1 55* 
Eggs, hard-boiled, with bechamel 

sauce, 317. 
Eggs and oysters, scolloped, 128. 
Eggs with pistachio nuts, 1&3. 
Eggs, poached, with cream, la 
Eggs, poached, whites of, 84. 
Eggs with pur^e of sorrel, 162. 
Eggs, stuffed, with cream sauce, 53. 
Eggs 4 la tripe, 121. 
Eggs, vol-au-vent, with bechamel 

sauce, 41. 
Egg-plant, stuffed, 280. 
Elder-flower fritters, 179. 
Essence of ham, 148. 



F. 



Fast days, bills of fare for, 10, 20, 
30, 41, 51, 60, 70, 80, 90, lOI, 
III, 121, 131, 141, 151, 162, 
172, 182, 192, 202, 212, 223, 
254, 264, 274, 284, 294, 315, 

325. 335» 345, 355. 365. 
Fennel sauce, 191. 
Figpeckers in cases, 299. 
Filbert butter, 198. 
Fillet of beef roasted, Madeii'a 

sauce, 91, 105. 
Fillet of beef sliced k la financi^re, 

280. 



374 



INDEX. 



Fillet of boar au chasseur, 319. 

Fillet of pork,- 148. 

Fillet of veal roasted with fine 

herbs, 168. 
Fillet of veal pickled, 271. 
Fillet of venison roasted, 348. 
Fillet of venison sliced a la Saint 

Hubert, 353. 
Fillets of beef k la Chateaubriand, 

62. 
Fillets of beef with poivrade sauce, 

181, 316. 
Fillets of fowl i la cardinal, 308. 
Fillets of fowl cooked in butter, 360. 
Fillets of gurnet turban fashion, 126. 
Fillets of gurnet with tomato sauce, 

218. 
Fillets of hare larded, 309. 
Fillets of mutton k la minute, '252. 
Fillets of partridge cold and glazed, 

286. 
Fillets of partridge with truflBes, 322. 
Fillets of pigeon k la Duxelle, 194. 
Fillets of skate, 128. 
Fillets of sole k la Orly, 28. 
Fillets of sole with Italian sauce, 75, 
Fillets of sole* baked with bread- 
crumbs, 94. 
Fillets of sole larded and stuffed, 105. 
Fillets of sole baked turban fashion, 

113. 

Fillets of sole k la Joinrille, 278, 

Fillets of sturgeon roasted, 41. 

Fillets of teal and anchovies, 365. 

Fillets of veal stuffed, 226. 

Fillets of whiting k la Conti, 2$. 

Fillets of whiting baked with bread- 
crumbs, 44. 

Fillets of whiting k la Orly, 300. 

Fillets of whiting baked, 310. 

Fillets of woodcock k la proven^ale, 
271. 

Fillets of woodcock on toast, 318. 

Fillets of young rabbit with cucum- 
ber, 225. 

Fish forcemeat, 97. 

Fish glaze, 87, 133. 

Fish patties, 228. 

Flemish garnish, 67. 

Foie gras, pit^ of, 163. 

Foie gras k la perigueux, 328. 



Fondu of cheese, 25a 
Forcemeat, 97. 
Forcemeat, calf s liver, 164. 
Forcemeat for cucumbers, 206. 
Forcemeat, egg, 351. 
Forcemeat, fish, 97. 
Forcemeat of fowl and truffles, 353. 
Forcemeat, quenelle, 247. 
Forcemeat, savory, 241. 
Forcemeat, truffle, 266. 
Forequarter of lamb, stuffed, ^. 
Forequarter of lamb roasted, 104. 
Forequarter of venison, roast, 358. 
Forequarter of southdown mutton, 

190. 
Fowl boiled in stock, 71, 
Fowl braised with tomato sauce, 125. 
Fowl, brown fricassee of, 283. 
Fowl, fillets, k la cardinal, 308. 
Fowl, fillets, cooked in butter, 360. 
Fowl, forcemeat, with trufSes, 353. 
Fowl, fricassee of, 83. 
Fowl fricass^ k la Du Barry, 261. 
Fowl k la Grimod Reyni^re, 84. 
Fowl, roast, k la sucking-pig, 1. 
Fowl k la Montmorency, 7. 
Fowl, roast, with tomato sauce, 64. 
Fowl, roast, 177. 
Fowl stuffed with oysters and truffles, 

211. 
Frangipane, 128. 

Frangipane, marrow, tart, 58, 339. 
French beans k I'anglaise, ill. 
French beans and haricots k la 

maitre d'hotel, 133. 
French beans k la poulette, 195. 
French beans with white sauce, 108. 
Fresh herrings with mustard sauce, 

336. 
Fricandeau of stui^eon, 208. 
Fricandeau of sweet-breads, 126 
Fricandeau of veal, 52, 132. 
Fricassee of eel and lettuce, 203. 
Fricassee of fowl, 83. 
Fricassee of fowl k la Du Barry, 261. 
Fricassee of fowl, brown, 283. 
Fried artichokes, 69. 
Fried calf s ears in batter, 213. 
Fried calf s feet, 269. 
Fried carp, 8. 
Fried chicken a la Orly, 189. 



INDEX. 



375 



Fried dabs, 46, 21a 

Fried eel, 78. 

Fried potatoes 4 la Macaire, 199. 

Fried potatoes, 331. 

Fried purslane in batter, 91. 

Fried purslane ^ la milanaise 166. 

Fried quenelles, 191. 

Fried quenelles of potato, 242. 

Fried ram's kidney, 273. 

Fried salsifis, 221, 284. 

Fried salt cod, 294. 

Fried skate, 235. 

Fried sheep's tails, 188. 

Fried sheep's tails and rice, 218. 

Fried sheep's trotters, 249. 

Fried slices of bread-crumb or 

brioche, 24. 
Fried slices of bread-crumb ^ la 

Normande, 31. 
Fried soles, 161, 299. 
Fried sweet-breads, icxd. 
Fried tench, 146. 
Fried tendons of veal, 350. 
Fried tunny, 348. 
Fried whiting pollock, 130. 
Fried young rabbit, 71. 
Fritters, 269. 

Fritters, apple, k la d'Orleans^ .68. 
Fritters, apple, 356. 
Fritters, apricot, with brandy, 94. 
Fritters, apricot, 175. 
Fritters, beetroot, 314. 
Fritters, calfs brain, 91, 234. 
Fritters, cauliflower, 3. 
Fritters ^ la Chantilly, 350. 
Fritters, chicken, 228, 344. 
Fritters, currant, ^ la Dauphine, 274. 
Fritters, elder-flower, 179. 
Fritters, jam, 208. 
Fritters, maizena, soufild, 354. 
Fritters, orange, 49. 
Fritters, potato, 180. 
Fritters, sweet potato, 185. 
Fry, Italian, 285. 



G. 

Galantine of turkey-hen, 222. 
Galantine of young rabbity 201. 
Garlic butter, 131. 



Garnish ^ la Chipolata, 79. 

Garnish ^ la Durand, 260. 

Garnish ^ la finan9iere, 78, 362. 

Garnish ^ la flamande, 67. 

Garnish a la for^^t de Senart, 125. 

Garnish k la Godard, 72. 

Garnish i la Toulouse, 35. 

Gascony butter, 213. 

Geneva sauce, 177. 

German paste, 302. 

German paste croquettes, 215. 

German paste timbale, 234. 

Giblets, turkey or chicken, 157. 

Glaze, chicken, 87. 

Glaze for cold chickens, 339. 

Glaze for cold partridges and wood- 
cock, 329. 

Glaze, fish, 87. 

Glazed carrots, 97. 

Glazed fillets of partridge, 286. 

Glazed onions, 14. 

Glazed shoulder of lamb, 109. 

Golden thickening, 360. 

Goose, braised, ^ la Chipolata, 316. 

Goose, cold, braised, 58. 

Goose, hashed, ^ la lyonnaise, 1 1. 

Goose, roast, 252. 

Goose, roast, and stuffed with chest- 
nuts, 31. 

Goose thighs ^ la lyonnaise, 349. 

Gooseberry, green, sauce, 138, 171. 

Gooseberry, red or white, in com- 
pete, 167. 

Gravy patties, 164. 

Gravy, vegetable, for fast day, 273. 

Green almond t^t ^ la d'Escars, 216. 

Green pea soup, 1 52. 

Green peas ^ 1 anglaise, 217, 106. 

Green peas boiled in their shells, 
160. 

Green peas ^ la parisienne, 165. 

Green sauce, 97. 

Greengages, comp6te of, 225. 

Grey mullet, boiled, 97. 

Grey mullet with melted butter, 45. 

Grilled chicken ^ la chasseur, 73. 

Grouse, roast, 328. 

Guinea-fowl, roast, 293. 

Gurnet, fillets, turban fashion, 126. 

Gurnet, fillets, with ,tomato sauce, 
218. 



376 



INDEX. 



H. 



Half braise, 247. 

Ham, boiled, 4 la Maillot, 303. 

Ham, essence of, 148. 

Ham, puree of, 322. 

Ham, roast, 112. 

Ham, York, 55. 

Hard-boiled eggs with bechamel 

sauce, 317. 
Hare, baron, roast, 331. 
Hare, boudins of, 321. 
Hare, civet of, 275. 
Hare, cold, stewed, 283. 
Hare, fillets, larded, 309. 
Hare ^ la mode, 246. 
Hare, roast, 297. 
Hare, roast, ^ la finnoise, 349. 
Haricot of mutton, 23. 
Haricot beans 4 la Bretonne, 33. 
Haricot beans with capsicum butter, 

312. 
Haricot beans k la maitre d'hotel, 

211. 
Haricot beans and marrow, 235. 
Haricot beans, pur^e of, 184. 
Haricot beans, red, ^ la borgui- 

gnonne, 80. 
Haricot beans, white, in puree, 

310. 
Hashed boiled beef, 262. 
Hashed goose ^ la lyonnaise, 1 1. 
Haunch of boar 4 la royale, 263. 
Herrings, fresh, with mustard sauce, 

336. 
Herrings, smoked, k la bruxelloise, 

361. 
Homfish with hoUandaise sauce, 

168. 
Hot forcemeat pie, 268. 
Hot salmon pie, 152. 



I. 



Iced bomb, 185. 

Iced soufB^ of vanilla and chocolate, 

244. 
Ices, baked, 151. 
Italian fry, 285. 



J. 



Jam fritters, 208. 

Jam pufis, 95. 

Jelly, lemon, 136. 

Jugged lamprey, 142. 

Jugged venison or roebuck, 19. 

Julienne soup, 2. 

YL 

Kidney patties, 142. 
Kidneys, fried ram*s, 273. 
Kidneys, calfs, stewed, 344. 
Kluskis of cream cheese, 10 1, 214. 
Kluskis or meat cakes, 201. 
Kromeskys, 296. 



L. 



Lamb, braised breast with asparagus, 

79. 
Lamb, braised saddle garnished with 

rissoles, 2. 
Lamb, breasts, ^ la mar^chale, 210. 
Lamb cutlets and French beans, 281. 
Lamb cutlets with puree of cardoons, 

29a 
Lamb, forequarter, roast, 104. 
Lamb, forequarter, stuffed, 88. 
Lamb, hindquarter, roast and larded, 

171. 
Lamb, saddle, roast, 77. 
Lamb, shoulder, glazed, 109. 
Lamb sweet-breads with rice, 285. 
Lampreys ^ Titalienne, 67. 
Lampreys, jugged, 142. 
Lapwing, roast, 68, 183. 
Larded fillets of sole, 105. 
Larded fillets of hare, 309. 
Larded hindquarter of lamb roasted, 

171. 
Larded loin of veal braised, 265, 
Lark cutlets, 347. 
Lark pie, 255. 
Larks, broiled, 357. 
Larks in cases, 263. 
Larks au chasseur, 341, 
Larks, roast, 296, 



INDEX. 



377 



Larks, salmis of, 14, 272. 

Lead cake, 107. 

Leeks, pur^e of, 219. 

Leg of mutton, boiled, with vege- 
tables, 299. 

Leg of mutton, braised, 204. 

Leg of mutton, braised, 4 la Durand, 
257. 

Leg of mutton \ la polonaise, 215. 

Leg of mutton ^ la proven9ale, 82. 

Leg of mutton, roast, 127. 

Leg of mutton, ^ la roebuck, 334. 

Leg of mutton ^ la russe, 229. 

Leg of mutton, stewed, 103. 

Lemon jelly, 136. 

Lemon sauce, 207. 

Lentils, pur^e of, 92, 158. 

Lettuce, stewed, 32. 

Lettuce, stuffed, 227. 

Leveret ^ la minute, 324. 

Light pastry, 115. 

Liver, calf s, ^ Titalienne, 88. 

Liver, calfs, roasted, 115. 

Liver, sheep's, ^ la m^nag^re, 277. 

Lobster butter, 50, 143. 

Lobster patties ^ la bechamel, 51. 

Lobster salad, 35. 

Lobster sauce, 116. 

Lobster scallops ^ la parisienne, 279. 

Lobsters boiled in court-bouillon, 
116. 

Lobsters ^ la Bordelaise, 347. 

Loin of mutton boned k la nivemaise, 
282. 

Loin of veal, larded and braised, 265. 

Loin of veal, roasted, 197. 



M. 

MacAdoine of fruit in jelly, 227. 

Maccaroni cheese, 172. 

Maccaroni, timbale of, 80, 306. 

Maccaroni with tomato sauce, 93, 

Mackerel, broiled, ^ la maitre d'hdtel, 
ii. 

Mackerel, boiled, 120. 

Mackerel ^ la flamande, 190. 

Mackerel stuffed with green goose- 
berries, 138. 

Madeleine cakes, 126^ 



Maltre d'h6tel butter, 83. 
Maizena Bavarian cream, 319. 
Maizena cream tart, 326. 
Maizena fritters soufH^, 354* 
Maizena omelet ^ la russe, 345. 
Maizena pancakes, 330. 
Marinade of wine or vinegar, 338. 
Marmalade, peach, 277. 
Marrow, beef, ^ la Orly, 150. 
Marrow frangipane tart, 339. 
Marrow quenelles, 144. 
Mayonnaise sauce, 176. 
Mayonnaise of tendons of veal, 174. 
Mayonnaise of turbot, 254. 
Meat cakes or kluskis, 201. 
Melon, how to choose one, 173. 
Meringue of apple, 33. 
Meringue with cream, 78. 
Mirabelle plum marmalade, 232. 
Mirepoix, 278. 
Morels k I'andalouse, loi. 
Morels ^ I'italienne, 98. 
Morels on toast, 129. 
Mullet, broiled grey, 97. 
Mushrooms, baked, 84. 
Mushrooms, puree of, 308. 
Mushrooms, stewed, 332. 
Mushrooms, stuffed, 248. 
Mushrooms on toast, 60, 289. 
Mussels k la marini^re, 213. 
Mussels 4 la poulette, 193. 
Mussels k la Villeroi, 313. 
Mussels, scalloped, 296. 
Mussels, stewed, 267. 
Mutton, breast, with sauce piquante, 

8. 
Mutton, breast, braised, 133. 
Mutton cutlets with onions, 15. 
Mutton cutlets k la jardiniere, 59, 

no. 
Mutton cutlets with tomato sauce, 87. 
Mutton cutlets k la financi^re, 357. 
Mutton fillets ^ la minute, 252. 
Mutton, forequarter of, southdown, 

^ la Bretonne, 190. 
Mutton, haricot of, 23. 
Mutton, leg, boiled, with caper sauce, 

31- 
Mutton, leg, braised, 55. 

Mutton, leg, It la proven^ale, 82. 

Mutton, leg, stewed, 103. 



378 



INDEX. 



Mutton, 1(^, roast, 127. 
Mutton, leg, i la polonaise, 215. 
Mutton, leg, k la russe, 229. 
Mutton, leg, braised, 204. 
Mutton, leg, k la Durand, 257. 
Mutton, leg, boiled with vegetables, 

299. 
Mutton, leg, ^ la roebuck, 334. 
Mutton, loin, boned ^ la nivemaise, 

282. 
Mutton, navarin of, 352. 
Mutton, saddle, roast, 12, 178. 
Mutton, saddle, roast, ^ I'anglaise, 

29. 
Mutton, saddle, braised, 2. 
Mutton, shoulder, braised with 

glazed onions, 73. 



N. 

Navarin of mutton, 352. 
Nougat, 139. 
Nun s sighs, 70. 



O. 



Omelet, 123. 

Omelet with asparagus- heads, 14 1. 

Omelet, anchovy, 243. 

Omelet, bacon, 118. 

Omelet k la jardiniere, 206. 

Omelet, maizena, ^ la russe, 345. 

Omelet souffle, 306. 

Omelet, tunny, 232. 

Onion, browja, sauce, 346. 

Onion, white, sauce, 346. 

Onions, glazed, 14. 

Onions, puree of, ^ la Bretonnc, 54. 

Onions, pur^e of, 4 la Soubise, 330. 

Onions, stewed, 332. 

Onions, stuffed, 118. 

Open tart, apple, 1 1 1 . 

Open tart, apricot, k la Mettemich, 

172. 
Open tart, apricot, k la bonne femme, 

221. 
Open tart, fruit, 164. 
Open tart, green almond, ^ la 

d'Escars, 2^6. 



Open tart of maizena cream, 3^. 

Open tart of marrow fxangipanje, 339. 

Orange fritters, 49. 

Orange salad, 43. 

Ortolans in cases, 299. 

Ortolans i la perigourdine, 314. 

Ortolans, roast, 311. 

Ortolans roasted in a saucepan, 333. 

Ox palates in croquettes, 173, 203. 

Ox palates k la lyonnaise, 177. 

Ox -tail k la Sainte-Menehould, 165. 

Ox-tongue, baked, 74. 

Ox-tongue, braised, 26. 

Ox-tongue, stewed, with Parznesaif 

cheese, 92. 
Ox-tongue, slices of, in cases, 302. 
Oyster, patties, 30. 
Oysters, stewed, 99. 



P. 



Panada, bread, 96. 

Panada, bread made with mijk, 

233- 
Pancakes, 214. 

Pancakes of maizena, 330. 

Partridge ^ I'anglaise, 327. 

Partridge, braised, 300. 

Partridge, braised, \ la Cussy, 311. 

Partridge and cabbage, 273. 

Partridge, fillets, cold, glazed, 286. 

Partridge, fillets, with truffles, 322. 

Partridge, ^ la parisienne, 346. 

Partridge, pur^ of, 252, 354. 

Partridge, roast, 7. 

Partridge, scalloped, 267. 

Partridge souffle, 291. 

Partridge, stewed, 262. 

Paste, brioche, 359. 

Paste, German, 302. 

Pastry, cream, 113. 

Pastry, light, ii$. 

P4t^ qf foie gras, 163. 

Patties, crayfish, 169. 

Patties, fish, 228. 

Patties, gravy, 164. 

Patties, kidney, 142. 

Patties, oyster, 30. 

Patties, small, k la bourgeoise, 331. 

Patties, small, of chicken, 295. 



INDEX. 



379 



Patties, small, \ la reine, 2S7. 

Peach marmalade, 277. 

Peaches, comp6te of, 197, 242. 

Peaches ^ la Coud^, 205. 

Pear, comp6te of, 289. 

Peas and bacon, 139. 

Peas, green, boiled in their shells, 

160. 
Peas, green, ^ I'anglaise, 106. 
Peas, pur^e ofi with rice, 57. 
Pheasant i la boh^mienne, 277. 
Pheasant, roast, ^ la Brillat Savarin, 

251. 
Pheasant, stewed, 330. 
Pickled cabbage and oysters, 57. 
Pickled carp, 10. 
Pickled fillet of veal, 271. 
Pickled ox-tongue, 176. 
Pickled pike, 2a 
Pie, cold, and how to make, 1 19. 
Pie, hot, 122. 
Pie, hot, forcemeat, 268. 
Pie, hot, salmon, 152. 
Pie, lark, 255. 
Pie, salmon, 102. 
Pie, sole, 341. 
Pie, sucking-pig, 122. 
Pie, turbot, 304. 

Pie, vegetable, ^ lab^hamel, 231. 
Pie, woodcock, 303. 
Pig, sucking, roast, 122. 
Pig's ears k la lyonnaise, 108. 
Pig's ears, braised, 184. 
Pig's ears ^ la Sainte-Menehould, 

269. 
Pig's tail with pur^e of green peas, 

149. 
Pigeons, broiled, 190. 
Pigeons, cutlets of, with green peas, 

205. 
Pigeons, filleted ^ la Duxelle, 194. 
Pigeons, roast, 147. 
Pigeons, stewed, with asparagus, 

140. 
Pigeons, stewed, with crayfish, 65. 
Pigeons, stewed, with green peas, 

140. 
Pigeons, stewed, 158. 
Pike with anchovy sauce, 5. 
Pike k la Clermont, 324. 
Pike dressed like a dolphin, 269. 



Pike with horseradish sauce, 42. 

Pike, pickled, 20. 

Pike, stuffed and roast, 70. 

Pilau of rice, 215. 

Pilau of rice for fast day, 223. 

Pintail, roast, 51. 

Pistachio cake, 95* 

Plaice, broiled, 76. 

Plover, braised, 244. 

Plover, roast, 56. 

Plover, roast, with stewed mush- 
rooms, 66. 

Plover, stewed, with truffles, 355. 

Plum-pudding, 48. 

Plum* pudding, an excellent, 204. 

Poached, whites of egg, 84. 

Poivrade sauce, loi. 

Polenta k I'italienne, 339. 

Poor man's sauce, 205. 

Pork, salt, with cabbage, 56. 

Pork cutlets with poivrade sauce, 
189. 

Pork cutlets, 240. 

Pork, loin of, 148. 

Pork, roast loin of, 261. 

Pot au feu, or uncleared stock, 
183. 

Potato croquettes, 294, 320. 

Potato fritters, 180. 

Potato salad, 265, 335. 

Potatoes k I'anglaise, 67. 

Potatoes and bacon, 216. 

Potatoes, baked, puree, with bread- 
crumbs, 19. 

Potatoes boiled in their skins, 150. 

Potatoes and cream, 233. 

Potatoes, fried, 52, 331. 

Potatoes, fried, h. la Macaire, 199. 

Potatoes, fried, quenelles of, 242. 

Potatoes k la parisienne, 125. 

Potatoes, puree of, 39. 

Potatoes, pur^e k la Maria, 256. 

Potatoes, pur^e, baked, 365. 

Potatoes, sweet, with butter, 115. 

Potatoes with white sauce, 224. 

Puchero or Spanish soup, 343, 

Pudding, apple, 253. 

Pudding k la Cowley, 317. 

Pudding, an ex,cellent, 140. 

Pudding, an excellent plum^ 204. 

Pudding, plum> 48. 



38o 



INDEX. 



Pudding, turnip, 364. 

Puffs, jam, 95. 

Puffs, three-cornered custard, 290. 

Pullet, braised, with white sauce, 

217. 
Pullet, stuffed, turtle fashion, 236. 
Pur^e of bottoms of artichokes, 47. 
Pur^e of artichoke soup, 47. 
Puree of barley, 54. 
Pur^e of carrots, 5, 192. 
Pur^e of cardoons, 295. 
Pur^e of chestnuts, 44, 310. 
Pur^e of chestnuts k la mancelle, 334. 
Pur^e of chicory with fried bread, 48. 
Pur^e of chicory with cream, 56. 
Puree of game, 292. 
Pur^e of green peas and rice, 57. 
Pur^e of ham, 322. 
Pur^e of haricot beans 4 la Cond^, i . 
Pur^e of haricot beans, 60, 184, 

310. 
Puree of leeks, 219. 
Puree of lentils, 5, 92, 158. 
Pur^e of mushrooms, 308. 
Puree of onions ^ la Bretonne, 54. 
Pur^e of onions k la Soubise, 330. 
Puree of partridge, 252, 354. 
Puree of potatoes, 39. 
Puree of potatoes, baked, 365. 
Puree of potatoes 4 la Maria, 256. 
Pur^e of rice, 58. 
, Puree of rice with chervil, 82. 
Puree of sorrel, 1 14, 358. 
Puree of turnips, 30, 134. 
Puree of young rabbits with rice, 

136. 
Purslane fried in batter, 91. 
Purslane, fried, \ la milanaise, 166. 



Q. 

Quail with green peas, 266. 
Quail, roast, 259. 
Quail, stewed, with lettuce, 288. 
Quail stuffed with truffles, 312. 
Quenelles, cream, 76. 
Quenelles, forcemeat for, 247. 
Quenelles, fried, 191. 
Quenelles, fried, potato, 242. 
Quenelles, marrow, 144. 



Quenelles of scalloped carp, eel pout, 

cod, or whiting, 208. 
Quenelles, semolina, 80. 
Quenelles of sturgeon, 325. 



R. 



Rabbits, boudin k la Richelieu, 200. 

Rabbits, broiled, 253. 

Rabbits, stewed, with onions, 209. 

Rabbits k la venitienne, 124. 

Rabbits, young, broiled in cases, 77. 

Rabbits, young, brace of, roast, 117. 

Rabbits, young, au chasseur, 129. 

Rabbits, young, cutlets of, with 
tomato sauce, 196. 

Rabbits, young, filleted, with cu- 
cumber, 225. 

Rabbits, young, fried, 71. 

Rabbits, young, galantine of, 201. 

Rabbits, young, pur^e of, with rice, 

136. 
Rabbits, young, in salad, 337. 
Rabbits, young, scalloped, with 

asparagus, 154. 
Rabbits, young, scalloped, with white 

sauce, 180. 
Rabbits, young, stewed, 206. 
Ram's kidney, fried, 273. 
Ramequins, cornflour, 223. 
Raviolis, baked, 334. 
Redbreasts, 346. 

Red cabbage salad \ la russe, 343. 
Red haricot beans 4 la bourgui- 

gnonne, 80. 
Red mullet in cases, 20. 
Red mullet with oyster sauce, 91. 
Red mullet with tartare sauce, 106. 
Ribsof beef ^ la Bordelaise,292, 320. 
Ribs of beef, stewed, 185. 
Rice cake, 90, 100. 
Rice croquettes, 162. 
Rice, croustade of, 190. 
Rice and lamb's sweet-breads, 285. 
Rice pilau for fast day, 223. 
Rice pilau, 215. 
Rice, pur^e of, 58. 
Rice, pur^e of, with chervil, 82. 
Rice souffle, 66. 
Ring-doves, young, broiled, 220. 



INDEX. 



38 i 



Rissoles of cockscombs and truffles, 

137. 
Roast beef with potatoes, 160. 

Roast beef with forcemeat patties, 

175. 
Roast blackcock, 298, 326. 

Roast bustard, 270. 

Roast brace of eels, 104. 

Roast brace of young rabbits, 117. 

Roast calTs kidney, 114. 

Roast calfs liver, 115. 

Roast chicken ^ la Immbourgeoise, 

224. 
Roast duckling, 47. 
Roast eel, 182 
Roast fillet of beef with Madeira 

sauce, 91, 105. 
Roast fillet of sturgeon, 41. 
Roast fillet of veal with fine herbs, 

168. 
Roast fillet of venison, 348. 
Roast fowl with tomato sauce, 64. 
Roast fowl, 177. 
Roast forequarter of lamb, 104. 
Roast forequarter of venison, 358. 
Roast goose, 252. 
Roast grouse, 328. 
Roast guinea-fowl, 293. 
Roast ham, 112. 
Roast hare, 297. 
Roast hare k la finnoise, 349. 
Roast lapwing, 68, 183. 
Roast larded hindquarter of lamb, 

171. 
Roast larks, 296. 
Roast leg of mutton, 127. 
Roast leg of roebuck, 249. 
Roast loin of pork, 261. 
Roast loin of veal, 197 
Roast ortolans, 311. 
Roast ortolans in a saucepan, 333. 
Roast partridge, 7. 
Roast peacock, cold, 362. 
Roast pheasant k la Brillat Savarin, 

251. 
Roast pigeons, 147. 
Roast pike, stuffed, 70. 
Roast pintail, 51. 
Roast plover, 56. 
Roast plover and stewed mushrooms, 

66. 



Roast quail, 259. 

Roast saddle of lamb, 77. 

Roast saddle of mutton, 178. 

Roast sea crayfish, 234. 

Roast shad, 75. 

Roast shovellers, 179. 

Roast slice of sturgeon, 284. 

Roast small birds a Pitalienne, 292. 

Roast sucking-pig, 122. 

Roast thrushes, 248. 

Roast turkey-hen stuffed with truffles, 

336. 
Roe, scalloped carp's, 304. 
Roe, stewed, 143. 
Roe, stewed, for fast day, 294. 
Roe, stewed, 329. 
Roebuck, roast leg of, 249 
Roebuck, stewed, cutlets, 363. 
Royal sticks, 202. 
Rump-steak, braised, 117. 
Russian salad, 305. 



S. 



Saddle of lamb, roasted, TJ. 

Saddle of mutton, roasted, 178. 

Saint Charles cake, 357. 

Saint Louis cake, 351. 

Salad, lobster, 35. 

Salad, mixed vegetable, 40. 

Salad, orange, 43. 

Salad, potato, 265, 335. 

Salad, red cabbage, ^ la russe, 343. 

Salad, Russian, 305. 

Salad sauce, 34. 

Salad, vegetable, 34. 

Salad, vegetable, and smoked sal- 
mon, 59. 

Salad of young rabbit, 337. 

Salad, watercress and potato, 346. 

Salmis of black diver, 254. 

Salmis of duck's thighs, 112. 

Salmis of larks, 272. 

Salmis of wild duck, 241. 

Salmis of woodcock, 256, 364. 

Salmon boiled in court-bouillon, 
228. 

Salmon, broiled, 132. 

Salmon pie, 102. 

Salmon pie, hot, 152. 



S»lmoD, uallopcd with frtlitc sn 

189. 
Sakifii, ftkd, 331, 284. 
Silt cod, baked, with bnad-cram' 

Salt cod with black butter, 1 1 1. 
S»ll cod, cream of, no, 315. 
S»ll cod, fried, ^4- 
Salt cod tails i I'uigluse, 374. 
Silt cod ii Umillre d'hotel, 87. 
Salt pork and cabbage, 56. 
Salt. splcf.l. 257. 



309. 



Sance -■■)■ 

Sauce k la Dundle, 14^- 
Sauce iU ■ ■■ ■--. 3''-' 
Sauce, bcamaise, 367, 
Since, bjdtamel, with stock, 219. 
Sauce, bechamel, for bit day, 331. 
Sauce, Wchamel cream, 331. 
Sauce, bbck liuUer, z8S. 
Sauce, l'.ordelai5e, 304- 
Sauce, brown onion, 346. 
Sauce, caper, 12^ 
Sauce, caiwr white, 31. 
Sauce, ChatcaubriincI, 81. 
Sauce, court-lwuillon, 109. 
Sauce, cream, 142, 'SS' 
Sauce, cream, Wchamel, 231. 
Sauce, curry, 367. 
Sauce, diplomatic, 315. 
Sauce, eschalot, 283. 
Sauce, fennel, 191. 
Sauce, fresh butter, 21. 
Sauce, Geneva, 177. 
Sauce, German, 93. 
Sauce, green, 97. 

Sauce, green gooseberry, 138, 171. 
Sauce, hollandaisc or Dutch, 21. 
Sauce, horseradish, 323. 
Sauce, Italian, 287. 
Sauce, lemon, 207. 
;, lobster, 116. 



338- 
Sauce, matelote, 359. 
Sauce, mayonnaise, 176, 
Sauce, mint, 89. 
Sauce, mirepoix, 278. 



Sauoe, moosqnctaire, 214. 

SancB, onion, brown, 346. 

Sauce, onion, white, 346. 

Suice, .jy^ler, 333. 

Saoce, perigueui, 30 1. 

Sance, piijiianie. 178, 

Sance, fuiji-rade, 81, 101. 

Saace, rujor man's, 205. 

Sance, Portuguese, 255. 

Sauce, ravigote, 150. 

Sance, laTigotc, proTen^lde, 36 1. 

Sance, lemonlade, 297. 

Sauce, remoulade, i la cosaqti^ 217. 

Sance. Robeit, 64. 

Sauce, salad, 34. 

Sauce, shrimp, 177. 

Sauce, Spanish, 235, 30S. 

Sance, tanaie, 7J. 

Sauce, vetout^, 236. 

Sauce, villeroi, 363. 

Sance, white, 31. 

Sauce, white onion, 346. 

Sance for all roasts i(fj. 

Satice, good, for cold scraps d^neat, 

356. 
Sausages, broiled veal, 3I3. 
Savoiy forcemeat, 241. 
Savoy cake, 126, 
Scallops, lobster, i la parisienne, 



Scalloped young rabbit s with aspara- 
gus, 154- 

Scalloped young rabbits with white 
sauce, I So. 

Scalloped Carp, cod, or whiting, 3oS. 

Scalloped carp's roe, 304. 

Scalloped eggs and oysters, 128. 

Scalloped mussels, 296. 

Scalloped quenelles of eel pout, 308. 

Sea crayfish, niasted, 234. 

Semolina quenelles, 80. 

Semolina tinibales au chasseur, 174. 

Shad, boiled, with hoUandaisesMDce, 
65. 

Shad boiled in court-bonillon, 90. 

Shad boiled with maltre d'hAte 
lauce, 43. 



INDEX. 



38J 



Shad, broiled, and sorrel, 53, 70. 

Shad, roast, 75. 

Sheep's liver k la m^nag^re, 277. 

Sheep's tails, 188. 

Sheep's tails and rice, 218. 

Sheep's tongue, braised, 157. 

Sheep's trotters with Robert sauce, 

160. 
Sheep's trotters, fried, 249. 
Shoulder of mutton, braised, and 

glazed onions, 73. 
Shovellers, roasted, 179. 
Shrimp sauce, 177. 
Sirloin of beef k la provengale, 179. 
Skate, fillets of, 128. 
Skate, fried, 23s. 
Skate k la Sainte Menehould, 99. 
Skate with mixed herbs, 22 1. 
Sliced fillet of beef k la financi^re, 

280. 
Sliced fillet of venison k la Saint 

Hubert, 353. 
Slices of cod with cream sauce, 3. 
Slices of cod, boiled, egg sauce, 340. 
Slices of sturgeon, baked^ 233- 
Slices of sturgeon, roasted, 284. 
Slices of sturgeon, braised, 289. 
Slices of tongue in cases, 302. 
Small birds roasted k I'italienne, 292. 
Small chicken patties, 295. 
Small patties k la bourgeoise, 331; 
Small patties k la reine,, 287. 
Smelts k I'anglaise, 237. 
Smelts, baked, 26. 
Smoked herrings k la bruxelloise, 

361. 

Soles k la Colbert, 321; 

Soles k la normande, 264. 

Soles k la parisienne, 131. 

Soles, fillets, baked. With bread- 
crumbs, 94. 

Soles, fillets, baked, turban fashion, 

, 113- 

Soles, fillets, with Italian sauce, 75. 

Soles, fillets, k la Joinville, 278. 

Soles, fillets, larded and stuffed, 105. 

Soles, fillets, k la Orly, 28. 

Soles, fried, 1 61, 299. 

Soles, pie of, 341. 

Soles, stuffed withitaixed herbs, \%*i. 

Soles with white wine sauce, 147. . 



Sorrel, pur^e of, 1 14, 358. 
SoufH^ iced vanilla and chocolate, 

244. 
SoufH^ maizena fritters, 354. 
Souffle, omelet, 306. 
Souffle, partridge, 291, 
SoufBd, rice, 60. 
Soup, Bagration, 327. 
Soup, Baraquine, 324. 
Soup, bread, 6. 
Soup, bread and cabbage, k la Gas- 

conne, 89. 
Soup, bread and cabbage, for fast 

day, 325. 
Soup, bread and cabbage, for feast 

day, 258. 
Soup k la Brisse, 166. 
Soup, brunoise, with Italian past6, 3. 
Soup, brunoise, with rice, 16. 
Soup, cabbage, 56. 
Soup, chick pea, 240. 
Soup, clear, 181. 

Soup, clear, with chervil leaves, 88. 
Soup, clear fish, 243. 
Soup, clear, with poached eggs, 159. 
Soup, clear, with profit rolls, 266. 
Soup, clear, with quenelles, 29. 
Soup, clear, witn quenelles of 

chicken, 100. 
Soup, clear stock, k la Franfaise, 86. 
Soup, Colbert, 9. 
Soup, crayfish, 32. 
Soup, crayfish, with rice, 246. 
Soup, cream of rice, with chervil j 35. 
Soup, Cr^cy, or carrot, 18. 
Soup, Cr^cy, with crusts of bread, 4. 
Soup, curry, with rice, 49. 
Soup, Faubonne, k la, 1 2. 
Soup, fish, clear, 243. 
Soup, fish, with chopped herbs, 365. 
Soup, fish, k la ntmoise, 233. ■ 
Soup, French, 21. 
Soup, fried gravy crusts with, 27. 
Soup, German past6, 17* 
Soup, green pea, 152. 
Soup, herb, 20, 141. 
Soup, herb, k la proven^ald, 249. 
Soup, Italian paste, 22. 
Soup, julienne, 2. 
Soup, julienne, for fast day, 4I. 
Soup, leek, 19. 



384 



INDEX, 



Soup, lettuce, 59. 

Soup, Livonian, 348. 

Soup, maccaroni, 7. 

Soup, mock turtle, French fashion, 

Soup, mock turtle, 259. 

Soup, mutton, 268. 

Soup, Neapolitan, 238. 

Soup, ox-tail, 293. 

Soup, Parisian, 8. 

Soup, pea, 23, 31. 

Soup, pea, i la grecque, 338. 

Soup, 4 la Saint Germain, 349. 

Soup, peasant, 13. 

Soup, puchero or Spanish, 343. 

Soup, a la reine, 207. 

Soup, rice, 25. 

Soup, rice, with almonds, 10. 

Soup, rice and leek, 234. 

Soup, rice, \ la turque, 239. 

Soup, k la Savoyarde, 229. 

Soup, Spanish or puchero, 343. 

Soup, Solferino, 153. 

Soup, sorrel, with cream, 341. 

Soup, spring, 86. 

Soup, spring cabbage, 129. 

Soup, swallow's nests, 340. 

Soup, tapioca, 14. 

Soup, tapioca, k la Gouff(^, 278. 

Soup, v^etable, for fast day, 182. 

Soup, vermicelli, 33. 

Soup, white chicory, k la Colbert, 

216. 
Soup> white, k la Monaco, 70. 
Soup, white, k la reine, 207. 
Soup, white vermicelli, iSS* 
Soup, with bread crusts, 93. 
Soup, young onion, 1 1 
Spiced salt, 257. 
Spinach k lamaltre d*h6tel, 178. 
Spinach, stewed, 169. 
Spinach, stewed, old fashion, 220. 
Spinach, sweet, 57. 
Spongecake, 220. 
Sponge cake glazed with chocolate, 

57. 
Steak, braised rump, 117. 

Steak and potatoes, 98. 

Stew, 270. 

Stewed apples, 50. 

Stewed apples with rice, 93. 



Stewed apples and rice, 130. 
Stewed artichokes with essence of 

ham, 148. 
Stewed asparagus heads, 119. 
Stewed barl^l, 200. 
Stewed brill with mixed herbs, 122. 
Stewed calfs brains in matelote 

sauce, 354. 
Stewed calTs ears with mushrooms, 

135- 
Stewed calfs head, 24. 

Stewed calfs kidneys, 344. 

Stewed cardoons, 282. 

Stewed cardoons with marrdw, 40. 

Stewed carrots in sugar and cream, 

165. 
Stewed carp, 61. 
Stewed carp, pike, perch, barbel, 

and eel, 230. 
Stewed carp and eel, 12. 
Stewed celery, 8. 

Stewed chub with glazed onions, 239. 
Stewed duck and turnips, 49. 
Stewed duck and olives, 279. 
Stewed ducks and peas, 295. 
Stewed eel pout, 151, 250. 
Stewed eel and rabbit, 123. 
Stewed hare, 283. 
Stewed 1^ of mutton, 103. 
Stewed lettuce, 32. 
Stewed mushrooms, 332. 
Stewed mussels, 267. 
Stewed neck of veal, 193. 
Stewed onions, 332. 
Stewed ox-tongue with Parmesan 

cheese, 92. 
Stewed oysters, 99. 
Stewed partridge, 262. 
Stewed pheasant, 330. 
Stewed plovers and truffles, 355. 
Stewed pigeons and asparagus, 140. 
Stewed pigeons and green peas, 140. 
Stewed pigeons and crayfish, 65. 
Stewed pigeons, 158. 
Stewed quails and lettuce, 288. 
Stewed rabbits and onions, 209. 
Stewed ribs of beef, 185. 
Stewed roe, 143, 329. 
Stewed roe for fast day, 294. 
Stewed roebuck cutlets, 363. 
Stewed spinach, 169. 



INDEX. 



38s 



Stewed spinach, old fashion, 220. 

Stewed sturgeon, 74, 345. 

Stewed teal and olives, 237. 

Stewed turkey-hen, 191. 

Stewed turnips, 45, 154. 

Stewed turnips in white sauce, 121. 

Stewed turnips and sugar, 323. 

Stewed veal a la bourgeoise, 99. 

Stewed young rabbits, 206. 

Stock, clear, 4 la fran9aise, 86. 

Stock, crayfish, 342. 

Stock, pot aufeu, or uncleared, 183, 

Strawberry and raspberry whipped 
cream, 120. 

Stuffed anchovies, 154. 

Stuffed artichokes k la barigoule, I, 
82. 

Stuffed artichokes, 281. 

Stuffed cabbage, 63. 

Stuffed cabbage ^ la russe, 355. 

Stuffed calf s ears, 195. 

Stuffed calf s head, 245. 

Stuffed cod, 329. 

Stuffed cucumber, 198. 

Stuffed duck, 268. 

Stuffed eggs with cream, 53. 

Stuffed egg-plant, 280. 

Stuffed fillets of veal, 226. 

Stuffed forequarter of lamb, 88. 

Stuffed fowls with truffles and 
oysters, 211. 

Stuffed lettuce, 227. 

Stuffed mackerel with green goose- 
berries, 138. 

Stuffed mushrooms, 248. 

Stuffed onions, 118. 

Stuffed pike roasted, 70. 

Stuffed pullet, turtle fashion, 236. 

Stuffed quails with truffles, 312. 

Stuffed soles with mixed herbs, 137, 

Stuffed tomatoes, 170, 305. 

Sturgeon, fillet, roast, 41. 

Sturgeon, fricandeau of, 208. 

Sturgeon, quenelles of, 3215. 

Sturgeon, slice, baked, 238. 

Sturgeon, slice, braised, 289. 

Sturgeon, slice, roasted, 284. 

Sturgeon, stewed, 74, 345. 

Sucking-pig au p^re Douillet, I46. 

Sucking-pig pie, 122. 

Sucking-pig, roast, 122. 



Swallow's nests soup, 340. 
Sweet-breads, calf s, on skewers, 312. 
Sweet-breads in curl papers, 270. 
Sweet-breads, fried, lOO. 
Sweet»breads ^ la proven9ale, 242. 
Sweet-breads, lamb's, with rice, 285. 
Sweet-breads with Spanish sauce, 21 . 
Sweet-breads k la Toulouse, 35. 
Sweet-breads with white sauce, 27. 
Sweet potatoes with butter, 115. 
Sweet potatoes, fritters of, 185. 



T. 



Tart, open apple, iii. 

Tart, open apricot, ^ la Mettemich, 

172. 
Tart, open apricot, k la bonne 

femme, 221, 
Tart, open fruit, 164. 
Tart, open green almond, k la 

d'Escars, 216. 
Tart, open, of maizena cream, 326. 
Tart, open, of marrow frangipane, 

339. 
Tartlets, vanilla, 69. 

Tea, cream, 160. 

Teal, fillets, with anchovies, 365. 

Teal, stewed, with olives, 237. 

Tench boiled in court-bouillon, 79. 

Tench, broiled, 40, 92. 

Tench, fried, 146. 

Tendons of beef in vol-au-vent, 147. 

Tendons of veal, fried, 350I 

Tendons of veal, with green peas, 

238. 
Tendons of veal, mayonnaise of, 174. 
Tendons of veal with white sauce, 

45, 210, 351. 
Timbale ^ la champenoise, 290. 
Timbale of German paste, 234. 
Timbale of maccaroni, 80, 306. 
Timbale of semolina au chasseur, 

174. 
Thickening, brown, 309, 107. 
Thickening, golden, 360. 
Thickening, white, 107. 
Three-cornered custard puffs, 290. 
Thrushes cooked in brandy,?30l. 
Thrushes, roast, 248. 

C C 



386 



INDEX. 



Thrashes ^ la naysanne, 281. 
Tomatoes, stuned, 170, 305, 
Toi^uei calf s, with tomato sance. 

Tongue, sheep's, biaised, 157. 
Tongue, ox, baked, 74. 
Tongue, ox, boiled, 176. 
Tongue, ox, braised, 26. 
Tongue> ox, slices in cases, 502. 
Tongue, ox, with Pannesan cheese, 

stewed, 92. 
Topside df sirloin of beef \ la 

Godard, 76. 
Trout and anchovy butter, 96. 
Trout boiled in court-bouUlon, 55. 
Trout 'k la Chambord, 77. 
Trout \ I'espagnole, 158. 
Trout with Geneva sauce, 177. 
Trout ^ la hussarde, 124. 
Traffic forcemeat, 266. 
Truffles boiled in champagne, 338. 
Truffles, broiled, 363. 
Truffled turkey-hen, 356. 
Tunny broiled with purde of sorrel, 

233- 
Tunny, fried, 348. 

Tunny, omelet, 232. 

Turbot, baked, 95, 231. 

Turbot \ la hollandaise, 333. 

Turbot with horse-radish sauce, 186. 

Turbot, mayonnaise of, 254. 

Turbot pie, 304. 

Turkey giblets, 157. 

Turkeypinions with pnr^ of chicory, 
102. 

Turkey pinions \ la Sainte Mene* 
hould, 116. 

Turkey pinions with puree of chest- 
nuts, 278. 

Turkey-hen, galantine of, 222. 

Turkey-hen, roast, 13. 

Turkey-hen, stewed, 191. 

Turkey-hen stuffed with truffles, 
roast or braised, 336. 

Turkey-hen, truffled, 356. 

Turnips, pudding of, 364. 

Turnips, pur^ of, 134. 

Turnips, stewed, 45, 154. 

1 nnups stewed with sugar, 323. 

lunups stewed in white sauce, 
121. ^ 



Vanilla cream, 352. 

Vanilla tartlets, 69. 

Vanilla and chocolate souffle iced, 
244. 

Veal, breast and neck, with a^Mura- 
gus heads, 96. 

Veal, breast, \. la poulette, 134. 

Veal, breast, with green peas, 144. 

Veal, chump, with sorrel, 6. 

Veal, chump, \ la bonigeoise, 17. 

Veal, chump, with diiooiy, 46. 

Veal, chump of, 143. 

Veal cutlets, ^ la mihnaise, 106. 

Veal cutlets iila Gingaiat, 127, 187. 

Veal cutlets with puree of mush- 
rooms, 297. 

Veal cutlets in cases, 338. 

Veal, fillet, with fine horbs, roasted, 
168. 

Veal, fillets, stuffi^ 226. 

Veal, fricandeau, 52, 132. 

Veal, loin, roasted, 197. 

Veal, loin, braised and lazded, 265. 

Veal, neck, stewed, 193. 

Veal, pickled fillet of, 271. 

Veal sausages, broiled, 313. 

Veal, stewed, \ la bour^eoise, 99. 

Veal, tendons, fiied, 350. 

Veal, tendons, with green peas, 
238. 

Veal, tendons, in mayonnaise, 174. 

Veal, tendons, with white sauce, 45, 
210, 351. 

Vegetable gravy for fast day, 273. 

Vegetable pie a la bechamd, 231. 

Vegetables, salad of mixed, 4CX 

Venison, fillet, roast, 348, 

Venison, fillet, sliced \ la Saint- 
Hubert, 353, 

Virgin cream, 143, 237. 

Vol-au-vent of beef tendons, 147. 

Vol-au-vent of ^gs with bec^unel 
sauce, 41. 



W. 

Watercress and potato salad, 346. 
Weaver or sea-dragon, baked, 135. 



INDEX. 



387 



Weaver \ la Bordelaise, 240. 
Weaver ^ la maltre d'h6tel, 297. 
Weaver \ la Normande, 240. 
Whipped strawberry and raspberry 

cream, 120. 
White braise, 247. 
White haricot beans, pur^e of, 310. 
White thickening, 107. 
Whiting, baked, with bread-crumbs, 

321. 

Whiting, broiled, 139. 

Whiting, fillets, baked with bread- 
crumbs, 44. 

Whiting, fillets, baked, 310. 

Whiting, fillets, ^ la Orly, 300. 

Whiting pollock, fried, 130. 

Wild duck, roast, 5. 

Wild duck, salmis of, 241, 

Woodcock, fillets, on toast, 318. 

Woodcock pie, 303. 

Woodcock, salmis of, 256, 364. 



Y. 



York ham, 55. 

Young rabbits broiled in cases, 77. 

Young rabbits, brace, roast, 117. 

Young rabbits au chasseur, 129. 

Young rabbits, cutlets of, with tomato 
sauce, 196. 

Young rabbits filleted with cucum- 
ber, 225. 

Young rabbits, fried, 71. 

Young rabbits, galantine of, 201. 

Young rabbits, pur^ of, with rice, 

136. 

Young rabbits in salad, 337. 

Young rabbits scalloped with as- 
paragus, 154. 

Young rabbits scalloped with white 
sauce, 1 8a 

Young rabbits, stewed, 206. 

Young ring-doves, broiled, 220. 



C C 2 



TABLE ALPHABETIQUE DES 
MATlfiRES. 



«^/\y>/\/vrx/^ *> *^ *^ 'V/ 



A. 



Abatis de dinde k la chipolata, 36. 
Abatis de volaille, 157. 
Abricots k la Conde, 194. 
Accolade de lapereaux rods, 117. 
Accolade d'anguille k la broche, I04» 
Agneau (cotelettes d*) k la pur^ de 

cardons, 290. 
Agneau (quartier de devant d') k la 

broche, 104. 
Agneau (^igrammes d') aux pointes 

d'aspeiges, 96. 
Agneau (tendrons d') aux pointes 

d^aspeiges, 79. 
Agneau (cotelettes d') sautees et gar- 

nies de haricots verts, 280. 
Aigle de mer, 168. 
Ailerons de dinde k la chicoree, 102. 
Ailerons de dindon k la puree de 

marrons, 278. 
Ailerons de dindon k la Sainte 

Menehould, 116. 
AUemande, 93. 
Alose k la hoUandaise, 65. 
Alose au court-bouillon, 90. 
Aloses (dames d') grillees k la 

maitre d'h&tel, 43. 
Alose grille k Toseille, 53, 7a 
Alose r6tie, 75. 
Alouettes en salmis, 272. 
Aloyau k la Godard, 76. 
Aloyau k la proven9ale, 179. 
Aloyau brais^ k la royale, 57, 
Amourettes de boeuf en vol-au-vent, 

147. 
Amourettes de reau frites, 35a 
Anchois farcis, 154. 
Andouillettes de Troyes, 3 1 3. 
Anguille k la broche, 182. 



Anguille k la minute, 2. 
Anguille k I'anglaise, 68. 
Anguille k la poulette, 192. 
Anguille k la Sufiren, 9. 
Anguille k la tartare, 253. 
Anguille au soleil, 78. 
Anguilles k la bordelaise, 94. 
Anguilles aux montants de laitues 
romaines, 203. 
Animelles frites, 273. 
Artichauts k la barigoule, i, 82. 
Artichauts k la bonne femme, 61. 
Artichauts k la lyonnaise, 250. 
Artichauts k Tessence de jambon, 

148. 
Artichauts k Titalienne, 51. 
Artichauts farcis, 281. 
Artichauts frits, 69. 
Asperges k la creme, 90. 
Asperges en petits pois, 157. 
Asperges k I'huile, 74. 
Asperges k la sauce blanche, 66. 
Asperges k la Pompadour, 144. 
Asperges au beurre, 108. 
Asperges (pointes d') au jus, 119. 
Aspic d'ecrevisses, 327. 
Aubergines farcies, 280. 



B. 

Bab A au rhum, 186. 
Bain-Marie, 219. 
Bar k Teau de sel, 81. 
Bar grille sauce tartare, 11. 
Bar sauce aux capres, 36. 
Barbeau k Tetuvee, 200. 
Barbeau au court-bouillon, 23. 
Barbeau grille, 120. 
Barbottes en casserole, ''250. 



TABLE ALPHABiTJQUE. 



389 



Barbue ^ la bechamel, I, 64. 

Barbue k la Conti, 50. 

Barbue aux fines herbes, 122. 

Barbue 4 la parmesane, 50. 

Barbue 4 la proven9ale, 85. 

Barbue k laSainte Menehould, 262. 

Barbue marinee, 51. 

Barbue sauce diplomate, 13. 

Batons royaux, 202. 

Bavarois tot -fait au maizena, 319. 

Bavarois aux fruits, 319. * 

Becasses r6ties, 16. 

Becasses en salmis k la Tesprit de 

vin, 364. 
Becasses (saut^ de filets de) k la 

proven9ale, 271. 
Bec-figues r6tis, 291. 
Beignets, 269. 
Beignets (pate ^), 318. 
Beignets k la Chantilly, 350. 
Beignets aux confitures, 208. 
Beignets d'abricots, 175. 
Beignets de fleurs de sureau, 179. 
Beignets de fruits ^ Teau de vie, 94. 
Beignets de patates, 185. 
Beignets de ponmies, 356. 
Beignets de pommes k la d'Orleans, 

68. 
Beignets de pommes de terre, 180. 
beignets de raisin de Corinthe'k la 

Dauphine, 274. 
Beignets d'oranges, 49. 
Beignets souffles au maizena, 354. 
Betteraves k la Chartreuse, 314. 
Betteraves 4 la creme, 43. 
Betteraves poitevine, 337. 
Beurre de crevetteS, 120. 
Beurre k la maltre d'h6tel, 83. 
Beurre d'ail, 131. 
Beurre d'amandes, 245, 
Beurre d'anchois, 138. 
Beurre de gascogne, 213. 
Beurre de homard, 50. 
Beurre de noisettes, 198. 
Beurre de piment, 196. 
Bifteck, 98. 

Biscuits au beurre, 113. 
Biscuits glacis au chocolat, 57. 
Biscuits de Savoie, 226. 
Blanc, 107. 
Blanc-manger, 307. 



Blanc-manger au caf^, 118. 
Blanc-manger aux amandes, 60. 
Blanquette de veau, 351. 
Boeuf^(entre c6tes de) a la bordelaise^ 

292. 
Boeuf (culotte'de) \ la flamande, 145. 
Boeuf a la mode, 47. 
Boeuf k la mode (bonne recette), 161 . 
Boeuf bouilli garni k laflamande, 276. 
Boeuf bouilli garni de nouilles, 288. 
Boeuf (piece de) bouilli et pane, 320. 
Boeuf (cotes de) brais^es a la pur^e 

de tomates, 22. 
Boeuf (cote de) braisee au macaroni, 

61. 
Boeuf garni de choux, 27. 
Bombe panach^e, 185. 
Bouch^es aux huttres, 30. 
Bouch^es de homard ^ la bechamel 

51. , 
Bouchees de pur^e de volaille, 295. 

Boudins de lapin ^ la Richelieu, 200 

Boudins de li^vre, 321. 

Bouillabaisse, 212. 

Bouilli en matelote, 262. 

Bouillon k la fran9aise, 86. 

Braise, 149. 

Braise (demi), 247. 

Brandade de morue, 315. 

Breme de mer au vin blanc, 332. 

Brioche \ la cr^me, 359. 

Brochet k la Clermont, 324. 

Brochet au bleu, 20. 

Brochet en dauphin, 269. 

Brochet farci et r6ti k la broche, 70. 

Brochet sauce au beurre d'anchois, 5. 

Brochet sauce raifort, 42. 



C. 



Cabillaud farci, 329. 
Cabillaud 4 la hollandaise, 72. 
Cabillaud (dame de) sauce aux oeufs, 

340. 
CaiUes aux laitues, 288. 

Cailles aux petits pois, 266. 

CaiUes aux truffes, .312. 

Cailles r6ties, 259. 

Canard farci, 268. 

Canard sauvage roti, 5. 



390 



TABLE ALPHABETIQUE 



Canard sanvage en salmis, 241. 
Canard an p^re Donillety 178. 
Canard anx navets, 49, 187. 
Canard aux petits pois, 295. 
Canard aux olives, 279. 
Caneton roti, 47. 
Carbonade de mouton 'k la Niver- 

naise, 282. 
Cardons i la moelle, 4a 
Cardons k la poulette, 264. 
Cardons au gras, 286. 
Cardons an gratin, 317. 
Cardons au jus, 282. 
Cardons au maigre, 342. 
Carottes ^ la menagere, 213. 
Carottes au sucre, 165. 
Carottes glac^, 97. 
Carpe 4 la bi^re, 159. 
Carpe k la Chambord, 18. 
Carpe k Tetuvee, 61. 
Carpe au bleu, 10. 
Carpe frite, 8. 
Carpe gamie d'un r^out de lai- 

tances, 37. 
Carpe grillee, 185. 
Carpe 1 la mariniere, 172. 
Carpes ^ la russe, 335. 
Carre de pore frais r6ti, 148. 
Carre de pore r6ti 4 la Robert, 261. 
Carre de veau k la broche aux fines 

herbes, 168. 
Carre de veau piqu^ et brais^, 265. 
Carrelets grillets, 76. 
Casserole au riz gamie de ris 

d'agneau, 285. 
Casserole de laitances, 143. 
Casserole de laitances au blanc, 294. 
Celeri au jus, 8. 

Celeri-rave ^ la sauce au beurre, 22. 
Cervelles k la proven5ale, 183. 
Cervelles de veau ou mouton en 

brochette, 239. 
Cervelles frites, 234. 
Cervelles en marinade, ^1, 
Cervelles sauce matelote, 354* 
Cerf (filet de)r6ti, 348. 
Champignons k la bordelaise^ 39. 
Champignons au gratin, 84. 
Champignons farcis, 248. 
Champignons en rigout, yyt, 
Chapon k la regence, 238. 



Chapon au gros sel, 188. 
Chapon roti an cresson, I2. 
Charlotte de pommes, 298. 
Chartreuse de pommes, 62. 
Chiteaubriand grille, 62. 
Chaufroid de perdreaux, 286. 
Chicoree k la cr^me, 56. 
Chicoree en puree, 48. 
Chou au lard, 255. 
Choucroute aux huttres, 57. 
Chou farcis k la russe, 3C5. 
Choux de Bruxelles sautes au beurre, 

Choux de patisserie, 125. 

Choux fleurs au fromage, 168. 

Choux fleurs au gratin, 28. 

Choux fleurs sauce au beurre, 27. 

Civet de chevreuil, 19. 

Civet de lievre, 27J. 

Cochon de lait au pere Douillet, 146. 

Cochon de lait r6ti, I22. 

Colin frit, 130. 

Compote d'abricots a la minute, 155. 

Compete d'abricots grilles ^ la 

Breteuil, 181. 
Compote d'abricots milrs, 171. 
Compete de fruit ^ la normande, 18. 
Compote d'abricots verts ou comp6te 

vert-pre, 202. 
Comp6te de groseilles, 93. 
Comp6te de groseilles rouges ou 

blanches, 167. 
Compote de marrons, 307. 
Comp6te de p6ches, 197, 242. 
Compote de prunes reine-daude, 

225.^ 
Compote de poire^ 289. 
Compete d*oranges, 43. 
Concombres 4 la cr^me ou la be- 
chamel maigre, 202. 
Concombres farcis, 198^ 
Consomme k la chiffonade de cer- 

feuil, 88. 
Consomm^ aux lazagnes, 113. 
Coq de bruy^re, 326. 
Coq de bruyere rSti, 298. 
Coquilles de laitances de cHrpes, 304. 
Coquilles de monies, 296. 
Coquilles de quenelles de carps, 

lotte, morue, merlan, etc., do8. 
Coquilles d*oeufs iaux huStres^ 128. 



JDES MATlkRES, 



391 



C6telettes d'agneau k la pur^ de 

cardons, 290. 
C6telettes d'agneau sautes etgamies 

de haricots verts, 271. 
C6telettes de chevreuil saut^es, 363. 
C6telettes de lapereaux ^ la sauce 

tomates, 196. 
C6telettes de mouton a la financi^re, 

^357. 

Cotelettes de mouton k la jardiniere, 

59. "o. 
C6telettes de mouton aux oignons, 

15. 

C6telettes de mouton sauce tomates, 

87. 

C6telettes de pigeons aux petits pois, 

205. 
Cotelettes de pore frais, 240. 
Cotelettes de pore frais sauce 

poivrade, 189. 
Cotelettes de sanglier k la Saint 

Hubert, 316. 
C6telettes de veau ^ la Gingarat, 

127, 187. 
C6telettes de veau k la milanaise, 

106. 
C6telettes de veau 4 la puree de 

champignons, 297. 
C6telettes de veau en papillotes, 338. 
Cotes de boeuf aux racines, 185. 
Cotes de boeuf braisees k la pur^e de 

tomates, 22. 
Cdtes de boeuf brais^ au macaroni, 

61. 
Cougloflf ^ I'allemande, 117. 
Coulibiac d'anguilles (cuisine russe), 

350. ,, 
Coulis d ecrevisses, 242. 

Court-bouillon, 109. 

Cr^me k la vanille, 352. 

Cr^me au chocolat, 71. 

Cr^me au th^, 160. 

Cr^mebrAl^e, 170. 

Cr^e patissi^re au maizena, 326. 

Cr^me d*amandes, 79. 

Cr^me fouett^ de fraises et fram- 

boises, 120. 

Cr^me vierge, 143, 237. 

Cr8pes, 214. 

Crapes au maizena, 330. 

Cromesquis, 296. 



Croquantes, 138. 
Croquenbouche, 139. 
Croquettes de nouUles, 215. 
Croquettes de palais de boeuf, 173, 

203. 
Croquettes de pommes de terre, 294, 

320. 
Croquettes de riz, 162. 
Croquettes de volaille, 175. 
Croustade de riz, 190. 
Croiite aux champignons, 60, 289. 
Cro^tes k la Normande, 31. 
Cro^tes au pot, 4. 
Cuisses d'oie ^ la lyonnaise, 349. 
Cuissot de sanglier, 263. 
Culotte de boeuf 4 la flamande, 145. 
Culotte de boeuf brais^e, 117. 



D. 



Darioles ^ la duchesse, 85. 
Darioles ^ la patissi^re, 196. 
Dame d*esturgeon au four, 238. 
Dame d'esturgeon k la broche, 284. 
Dame d*esturgeon r6tie, 41. 
Dinde en daube, 191. 
Dinde rotie, 13. 
Dinde tmff^e, 356. 
Dindon (ailerons de) ^ la pur^e de 

marrons, 278. 
Dindon truffe r6tie ou en daube, 

336. 
Dumplmg aux pommes, 253. 

Dumpling ferme, 314. 



E. 



]|cLAiRS au chocolat, 71. 

Kcrevisses k la bordelaise, 7. 

Ecrevisses au court-bouillon, 34. 

£ntre-c6te de boeuf 4 la bordelaise, 
292. 

Intre-c6te ^ la bordelaise, 32a 
^paule d'agneau glac^, 109. 
^paule de mouton en ballon aux 
oignons glaces, 73, 

Eperlans k Tanglaise, 237. 

Eperlans au gratin, 26. 

Epinards ^ la mattre d'h6tel, 178. 



392 



TABLE ALFIIAB£TIQUE 



j^pinards a I'ancienne mode, 220. 
^pinards au jiis, 169. 
£pinards au sucre, 57. 
Escalopes de homard k la parisienne, 

279. 
Escalopes de lapereaux au fumet, 

180. 
Escalopes de lapereaux aux pointes 

d'asp^rges, 154. 
Espagnole des menages, 235. 
Essense de jambon, 148. 
Esturgeon (dame d') a la broche, 

284. 
Esturgeon au court-bouillon, 74 
Esturgeon (dame d') au four, 238. 
Esturgeon braise, 289. 
Esturgeon en fricandeau, 208. 
Esturgeon en matelote, 345. 



F. 



Faisan k retouffade, 330. 

Faisan roti, 251. 

Faisans k la bohemienne, 277. 

Farce aux oeufs, 351 

Farce aux truffes, 266. 

Farce cuite, 97. 

Farce de foie de veau, 164. 

Farce pour les concombres, 206. 

Feves de marais k la creme, 153. 

Feves de marais k la sariette, 153. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti, 4. 

Filet de boeuf roti au mad^re, 91. 

Filet de boeuf r6ti sauce mad^re, 

105. 
Filets de b^casses en canape, 318. 
Filets de grondins sauce tomates, 

218. 
Filets de grondins en turban, 126. 
Filets de lapereaux aux concombres, 

225. 
Filets de levraut piques, 309. 
Filets de merlans k la Conti, 25 
Filets de merlan k la Orly, 300. 
Filets de merlans au gratin, 44. 
Filets de mouton k la minute, 252. 
Filets de pigeons k la Duxelles, 

k. .I94- 

Wt Filet de sanglier au chasseur, 319. 

H^ Fillets de sarcelles aux anchois, 365. 



Filets de soles k la Joinville, 278. 
Filets de soles k la Orly, 28. 
Filets de soles k Titalienne, 75. 
Filets de soles au gratin, 94. 
Flan d'abricots k la Mettemich, 172. 
Flan d'amandes vertes k la d'Escars, 

216. 
Flan de cr^me meringuee, 148. 
Flan de creme k la frangipane, 58. 
Flan de frangipane k la moelle, 339. 
Flan de fruits, 164. 
Foie de mouton k la menag^re, 277. 
Foie de veau k Titalienne, S%. 
Foie de veau r6ti, 115. 
Foie gras k la perigueux, 328. 
Fondue au fromage, 250. 
Fraise de veau au naturel, 193. 
Frangipane, 128. 
Fricassee de poulets, 83. 
Fricassee de poulets k la du Barry, 

261. 
Fritot de poulets, 228. 
Friture mel^e k I'italienne, 285. 



G. 



Galantine de dinde, 222. 
Galantine de lapereaux, 201. 
Garbure au gras, 258. 
Garbure au maigre, 325. 
Garbures gratinees, 89. 
Garniture a la chipolata, 79. 
Garniture k la Durand, 260. 
Garniture k la financiere, 78. 
Garniture k la flamande, 67. 
Garniture k la foret de Senart, 125. 
Garniture k la Godard, 72. 
Garniture k la Toulouse, 35. 
Gdteau k la creme, 113. 
Gateau d'amandes, 45. 
Gateau d'amandes massif, 276, 
Gdteau de pistaches, 95. 
Gateau de plomb, 107. 
Giteau de riz, 90, loa 
Gateau feuillete, 115. 
Gateau Saint-Louis, 351. 
Giteau Saint Charles, 357. 
Giteaux fourres aux confitures, 95, 
Gelee au citron, 136. 
Gelinottes r6ties, 293. 



JDES MATlkRES, 



393 



Gigot \ la polonaise, 215. 
Gigot ^ la proven^ale, 82. 
Gigot braisi^y 204. 
Gigot de chevreuil r&ti, 249. 
Gigot de niouton ^ la Durand, 257. 
Gig6t de mouton ^ la russe, 229. 
Gigot de mouton bouiUi sauce aux 

^pres, 31. 
Gigot de mouton brais^, 55. 
Gigot de mouton r6ti, 238. 
Gigot de sept heures, 103. 
Gigot r6ti, 127. 
Glace au chocolat ou caf(6, 55. 
Glace de poisson, %T, 
Glace Yolaille, 87. 
Glaces au four, 151. 
Godiveau de blanc de volaille aux 

truffes, 353. 
Grenadine de filet de boeuf ^ la 

financi^re, 280. 
Grenadins de filets de soles, 105. 
Grives ^ la paysanne, 281. 
G rives \ I'eau de vie, 301. 
Grives r6ties, 248. 
Grousse rotie, 328. 
Grug^re au fromage, 337. 



H. 

Harekgs frais sauce moutarde, 

336. 
Harengs fiim^s ^ la bruxelloise, 361. 
Haricot de mouton, 23. 
Haricots \ la bretonne, 33. 
Haricots au beurre de piment, 312. 
Haricots blancs k la maitre d'hdtel, 

211. 
Haricots blancs ^ la moelle, 235. 
Haricots blancs en pur^e, 310. 
Haricots panaches ^ la maitre 

d'hotel, 133. 
Haricots rouges ^ la bourguignonne, 

80. 
Haricots verts \ Tanglaise, ill. 
Haricots verts k la poulette, 108, 

195. 
Homard au court-bouillon, 1 16. 

Homard k la broche, 234. 

Homards k la bordelaise, 347. 

Hure de sanglier, 366. 



J. 



J AMBON k la broche, 112. 
Jambon k la maillot, 303. 
Jambon d'York k I'anglaise, 39. 
Julienne maigre, 41. 
Jus de racine matgre, 273. 



K. 



Kluskis au fromage k la cr^me, 

loi, 214. 
Kluskis de viande frite, 201. 



Laitances, 143, 304. 
Laitues au jus, 32. 
Laitues farcies, 227. 
Lamproie 4 I'italienne, 67. 
Lamproie au supreme, 142. 
Langouste 4 la broche, 234. 
Langue k I'^carlate, 176. 
Langue de boeuf au gratin, 74. 
Langue de boeuf au parmesan, 92. 
Langue de boeuf brais^e, 26. 
Langue de boeuf en papillote, 301. 
Langues de mouton brais^es, 157. 
Langue de veau i la sauce tomates, 

56. 
Lapereau en papillote, 77. 
Lapereau grille, 253. 
Lapereaux en salade, 337. 
Lapereaux sautes, 71. 
Lapereaux sautes au chasseur, 

129. 
Lapereaux sautes aux fines herbes, 

206. 
Lapin en gibelotte, 123. 
Lapins k la v^nitienne, 124. 
Lapins en gibelotte, 209. 
Levraut 4 la minute ou saute, 

324* 
Lievre i la mode, 246, 

Li^vre en daube, 283. 

Lievre r6ti, 297* 

Lievre r6ti k la finnoise, 349. 

Limandes frites, 46, 210. 

Longe de veau r6ti, 197. 



394 



TABLE ALPHABATIQVE 



Lottes k la parisienne, 162, 197. 
Lottes k ritalienne, 219. 
Lottes en matelote, 151. 



M. 

Macaroni ^ la sauce tomates, 93. 
Macaroni k Titalienne, 172. 
Macaroni en timbale, 80. 
Mac^doine de fruits en gel^e, 227. 
Mac^oine de legumes en salade, 40. 
Macreuse au chocolat, 264, 
Madeleines, 126. 

Mani^re de fairedes p^tes froids, 119. 
Maquereaux k la ilamande, 190. 
Maquereaux aux groseilles vertes, 

138. 
Maquereaux bouilUs ou ^ I'eau de 

sel, 121. 
Maquereaux grilles ^ la maStre 

dli&tel, II. 
Marinade de cervelles, 91. 
Marinade cuite, 338. 
Marinade de choux fleurs, 3. 
Marinade de volaille, 156. 
Marmelade de mirabelles, 232. 
Marmelade de p^hes, 277. 
Matelote de carpe et anguille, 12. 
Matelote savante, 230. 
Mauviettes au chasseur, 341. 
Mauviettes en caisses, 263. 
Mauviettes en c6telettes, 347. 
Mauviettes grill^es, 357. 
Mauviettes en salmis, 14. 
Mauviettes roties, 296. 
Melons (connaissance de), 173. 
Meringues 4 la cr^me, 78. 
Merlans au gratin, 321. 
Merlans aux fines herbes, 4. 
Merlans frits, 16. 
Merlans grill^ 139, 
Meunier aux oignons glaces ^ I'alle- 

mande, 239. 
Mirepoix, 278. 
Mittonage ^ I'eau, 96. 
Mittonage au lait, 233. 
Moelle de boeuf ^ la Orly, 150. 
Morilles ^ Tandalouse, 10 1. 
Morilles k I'italienne, 98. 
Morilles aux croiitons, 129. 



Morue k la bechamel, 141. 

Morue k la cr^me, 3. 

Morue k la maStre d*h6tel, 87. 

Morue au beurre noir, 1 1 1. 

Morue au gratin, 103. 

Morue aux pommes de terre, 52. 

Morue firite, 294. 

Morue en brandade, 1 10. 

Monies k la marini^re, 213. 

Monies ^ la poulette, 193. 

Moules k la Villeroi, 313. 

Moules au gras, 267. 

Mousse de Saises et framboises, 120. 

Mouton (selle de) brais^, 37, 

Mulct grille, 97, 



N. 

Navarin de mouton, 352. 
Navets ^ la poulette, 120. 
Navets au jus, 154. 
Navets au sucre, 323. 
Navets en puree, 134. 
Navets glacis au jus, 45. 
Noix de bceuf brais^, 153. 
Noix de veau k Toseille, 6. 
Noix de veau k la bouigeoise, 1 7. 
Noix de veau k la chicoree, 46. 
Noix de veau en fricandeau, 53. 
Nougat, 139. 



O. 



OiE k la chipolata, 316. 

Oie en daube, 58. 

Oie r&tie, 252. 

Oie r6tie farcie de marrons, 31. 

Oignons k la puree soubise, 33a 

Oignons en ragoiit, 332. 

Oignons farcis, 1 18. 

Oignons glacis, 14. 

Oiseaux (petits) r6tis k Titalienne, 

292, 
Omelette k la jardiniere, 206. 
Omelette au lard, 118. 
Omelette russe au maizena, 345. 
Omelette au naturel, 1 23. . 
Omelette au thon, 232. 
Omelette aux anchois, 243. 



DES MATlkRES. 



395 



Omelette et oeufs brouill^ aux 

pointes d'asperges, 141. 
Omelette soum^e, 326. 
Oreillestle pore k la lyonnaise, 108. 
Oreilles de pore k la Sainte Mene- 

houldy 269. 
Oreilles de pore brais^es, 184. 
Oreilles de veau k Titaliemie, 167. 
Oreilles de veau aux champignons, 

Oreilles de veau en marinade, 213. 
Oreilles de veau fareies, 195. 
Ortolans ^ la p^rigourdine, 314. 
Ortolans ou bec-figues en caisse, 

299. 
Ortolans rdtis, 311. 
Ortolans r6tis en casserole close, 

333- 
Oseille en puree, 114. 

Outarde canepeti^re rotie, 270. 

Outardes ^ la russe, 344. 



CE. 
CEuFS i la bechamel, 317. 
CEufs ^ la coque, 134. 
CEufs 4 la cr^me, 155. 
CEufs ^ la neige, 84. 
Gilufs ^ la tripe, 120. 
CEufs au fromage, 224. 
CEufs au miroir ou sur le plat, 256. 
CEufs aux pistaches, 183. 
CEufs brouiU^s, 272. 
CEufs brouill6s aux pointes d'as- 

perges, 141. 
CEufs farcis, 53. 
CEufs pochis, 10. 
CEufs a la pur^e d'oseille, 162. 



P. 



Pain de perdreaux, 354. 

Palais de boeuf ^ la lyonnaise, 177. 

Paon roti, 362. 

Patates au beurre, 115. 

pate feuillet^, 115. 

pate i frire, 318. 

pate aux nouilles, 302* 

Patd chaudde godiveau, 268. 

Pat6 chaud de saumon, 152. 



Pat^ d^alouettes, 255. 

Pat^ de b^casses, 303. 

Pat^ de cochon de lait, 122. 

Pat^ de saumon, 102. 

Pat^ de legumes, 231. 

Pat^ de sole, 341. 

pate de turbot, 304. 

Pat^s (petits) \ la bourgeoise, 331. 

Pat^s (petits) \ la reine, 287. 

Pat^ cnauds, 122. 

Pat^sfroids, 119. 

Pat^ (mani^re de faire des) froids, 

119. 
Paupiettes de filets de merlans, 310. 
P^ches 4 la Cond^, 205. 
Perdreaux k la Cussy, 31 x. 
Perdreaux k Tanglaise, 327. 
Perdreaux ^ la parisienne, 346. 
Perdreaux en escalopes, 267. 
Perdreaux en souffle, 291. 
Perdreaux rdtis, 7. 
Perdrix aux choux, 273. 
Perdrix 4 restouffade, 262. 
Perdrix brais^es, 300. 
Petits oiseaux rdtis k Titalienne, 292. 
Petits pat^s au jus, 164. 
Petits pat^s aux ^crevisses, 169. 
Petits pat^s aux rognons, 142. 
Petits pat^ de poisson, 228. 
Petits pois 4 Tanglaise, 106. 
Petits pois 4 la parisienne, 165. 
Petits pois en cosses, 160. 
Petit sal^ au choux, 56. 
Pieds de mouton ^ la sauce Robert, 

160. 
Pieds de mouton frits, 249. 
Pieds de veau au naturel, 262. 
Pieds de veau frits, 269. 
Pigeons ^ la crapajodine, 190. 
Pigeons aux petits pois, 140. 
Pigeons aux pointes d'aspei^es^ 

14a 
Pigeons compdte, I j8. 
Pigeons en ragodt a^crevisses, 65. 
Pigeons r6tis, 147. 
Piku au gras, 215. 
Pilau de riz an maigre, 223. 
Pilets r6tis, 51. 
Plum pou(H]^ excellent, 204. 
Pluviers aux truffes (maigre), 355. 
Pluviers brais^, 244. 



39* 



TABLE ALPBAB^TIQUE 



Potage a la. pnr^ de fonds d'uti* 



Pofle. 270. 

Pointer d'aspeiges m jiis, 119. 
Pois HO lard ou au jambon, I^. 
Poitrines d'agoeau \ la marechAle, 

Poitrines Ae moulon i la sauce 

piifuante, S. 
Poilnoe de moutoa biai&^e, 133. 
Pntiine de Tcau aux pelits pois, 

144- 
P<Hnmes an beuirc, 5a 
Pommesau riz, 93, 130. 
Pommes de tecre (croqQeHes de). 



Pommes deteire k la Macaire, 199. 
Pommes de terre i I'angtaise, 67. 
Pommes de terte i la parisienne, 

125. 
Pommes deterred la sauce blanche, 

224. 

Pommes de terre saalfes, 52. 
Pommes de lerre a.u graCin, 19. 
Pommes de terre au laid, 216. 
Pommes de lerre en chemise, 150. 
Pommes de tetre soufflees, 331, 
Pommes en croustade, 111. 
Pommes meringuees, 33. 

Pore (c?"^ ^"'^ ir-iie rKti I 

Pot au feu, 183. 
Polage k la Bagralion, 327. 
Potage i la Brisse, 166. 
Potage i. la Conde, I, 
Potage k la Crecy, 18. 
Potage k la Faubonne, 12. 
Potage k la fran^aise, 21. 
Potage i la Gouffe, 278. 
Potage k la grecque, 338. 
Potage i la Xulienne, 2. 
Potage i. la julienne maigre, 182. 
Potage i ia Monaco, 70. 
Polage k la ntmoise, 233. 
Potage k la parisienne, 8. 
Polage k la puree de carolles, 5, 
192. 



184. _ 

Potage a la pur^ de jamboD, 322. 
P'jlage k la puree de lenlilles, 158. 
Potage k la puree de marrons, 44. 
Polage k la pur^ de navels, 30. 
Potage k la puree de pcnlrix, 252. 
Polage k !a purfc de pois, 23, 
Polage k la puree de pommes de 

Potage k ia reine, 207. 

Potage k la Saint Germain, 349. 

Potage a la Savoyarde, 229. 
Potage ilToseilie k la ctcme. 341- 
Potage au consommf de poison, 

Polage au monton, z68. 
Polage aux herbes provencal, 249. 
Potage aux nids d'hirondelles, 340. 
Potage aux pois chiches, 240, 
Polage aux ptotllcrolc!^, =66. 
Polage BUI queues d« txeuf, 293. 
Potage :ivec semoule et chifTooade 

d'oseille, 37. 
Potage au macaroni, 7. 
Potage au pain, 6. 
Polage au ■Ai, 25. 
Potage au sagou, 38. 
Polage au tapioca., 14. 
Potage au vennicelle, 33. 
Potage aux choux, 56. 
Potage aux choux verts, 129. 
Polage aux croiites gtilfees, 93, 
Polage aux herbes, zo, 141. 
Potage aux laitnes, 59. 
Polage aux lazagnes, 28. 
Potage aux nouQles, 17, 
Polage aux ceufe poch^, 159. 
Potage aux piles d'ltalie, 22. 
Potage aux pelits oignons, 11, 
Polage aux pelits pois, 152. 
Potage aux poireaux, 19. 
Polage aux quenelles de volaille, 

Potage Baraquine, 3x4. 
Potage bisque au riz, 246. 
Potage bisque d' jcrevisses, .32, 
Potage bnmoise au riz, 16. 



JDES MATlkRES, 



397 



Potage brunoise aux pS.tes d'ltalie, 3 . 

Potage Colbert, 9. 

Potage consomm^, 181 . 

Potage cr^me de chicoree 4 la Col- 
bert, 216. 

Potage cr^me de riz, 58. 

Potage cr^me de riz 4 la peluche de 
ceneuil, 35. 

Potage cr^me de vermicelle, I55« 

Potage crotlte au pot, 27. 

Potage de consomme aux quenelles, 
29. 

Potage de riz k la turque, 239. 

Potage de riz au kari, 49. 

Potage de riz au potiron, 234. 

Potage de poisson aux herbes, 365. 

Potage fausse tortue, 259. 

Potage en fausse tortue k la fran- 
9aise, 26. 

Potage livonien, 348. 

Potage maigre aux racines, 182. 

Potage napolitain, 238. 

Potage paysaime, 13. 

Potage printanier, 86. 

Potage pur^e aux croutons, 31. 

Potage pur^e de marrons 4 la Man- 
celle, 334. 

Potage puree de pois verts au riz, 

Potage Solferino, 53. 

Pouding, 48. 

Pouding k la Cowlay, 317. 

Pouding de navets, 364. 

Pouding excellent, 14a. 

Poulainte au parmesan, 339. 

Poularde k la Grimod de la Reyni^re, 

84. 
Poularde ^ la Montmorency, 7. 
Poularde au gros sel, 38. 
Poularde au riz, 19. 
Poularde en croiite, 217. 
Poularde en entree de broche, 64- 
Poularde en tome, 236. 
Poule au pot, 71. 
Poulet 4 la d*Escars, 114. 
Poulet 4 la hambourgeoise, 224. 
Poulet k la marengo, 155, 361. 
Poulet 4 la Orly, 189. 
Poulet k Testragon, 9. 
Poulet r6ti 4 la peau de goret, i. 
Poulet roti, 177. 



Poulet en marinade, 344. 
Poulet saut^, 283. 
Poulets ^ la bonne femme, 54. 
Poulets ^ la chasseur, 73. 
Poulets ^ la chivry, 280. 
Poulets ^ la sauce tomates, 125. 
Poulets ^ la I'italienne, 156. 
Poulets aux huitres et aux truffes, 

211. 
Poupiettes de veau, 226. 
Pourpier en friture, 91. 
Pourpier en friture \ la milanaise, 

166. 
Puchero, 343. 
Pur^e de cardons, 295. 
Pur^e de chicoree, 48. 
Pur^e de fonds d'artichauts, 47. 
Puree de haricots ^ la cr^me, 38. 
Pur^e de lapereaux, 136. 
Puree de lentilles, 5, 92. 
Puree de marrons, 310. 
Pur^e de mousserons, 308. 
Puree d'oiseille, 358. 
Pur^e de pommes de terre gratin^e, 

365. 
Pur^e de pommes de terre a la 

Maria, 256. 

Pur^e de potiron, 219. 

Pur^e d'oignons bretonne, 54. 



Q. 



QUARTIER d'agneau farci, 88. 
Quartier de devant d*agneau ^ la 

broche, 104. 
Quartiers d*oie \ la lyonnaise, 1 1. 
Quartier de prd sale 4 la bretonne, 

190. 
Quartier de veau r6ti, 143. 
Quenelles, 247. 
Quenelles \ la cr^me, 76. 
Quenelles ^ la moelle, 144. 
Quenelles k semoule, 80. 
Quenelles de pommes de terre, 242. 
Quenelles d'esturgeon, 325. 
Quenelles frites, loi. 
Queues de bceuf a la Sainte Mene- 

hould, 165. 
Queues de moriie ^ I'anglaise, 274. 



398 



TABLE ALPHABiTIQUE 



de mouton an riz, 218. 
Queues de Biauton frites au panne- 

san, 188. 
Queues de pore \ la p«r£e de pois 

verts, 149I 



R. 



RaBLE de li^vre rod, 331. 
Ragout aux huitres, 99. 
Ragoiit k la financi^re, 362. 
Ragout de veau it la booigeoise, 

Raie \ la noisette, 128. 

Raie k la Sainte Menehould, 99. 

Raie au beurre noir, 68. 

Raie aux fines herbes, 221. 

Raie frite, 235. 

Ramequins de poulainte, 223. 

Ramereaux marin^ 220. 

Ravioles au gratin, 334. 

Remoulade 4 la cosaque, 217. 

Ris de veau 4 la proven9ale, 242. 

Ris de veau 4 la Toulouse, 35. 

Ris de veau 4 la poulette, 27. 

Ris de veau 4 Tespagnole, 21 

Ris de veau en fricandeau, 126. 

Ris de veau en hatelets, 312. 

Ris de veau en papillotes, 270. 

Ris de veau frits, loi. 

Rissoles, 25. 

Rissoles de cretes de poq et de 

truffes, 137. 
Riz au lait d'amandes, 10. 
Rognon de veau roti, 1 14. 
Rognons de veau sautes, 344. 
Rosbif aux pommes, 160. 
Rosbif garni de petits pat^s, 175. 
Rosbif d'agneau, 171. 
Rouelle de cerf ^ la Saint-Hubert, 

353. 
Rouelle de veau en thon, 271. 
Rouges de riviere r6tis, 179. 
Rouges-gorges, 346. 
Rougets barbets sauce tartare, 106. 
Rougets en caisse, 20. 
Rougets sauce aux huitres, 91. 
Roux, 309. 
Roux blanc, 107. 
Roux blond, 107, 360. 



S. 



Salade de choux rouges k la msse, 

343- 
Salade de cresson de fcmtaine aux 

pommes, 346. 
Sai»]e de homard, 35. 
Salade de legmnes gamie de saumon 

filing, 59. 
Salade de legumes, 34. 
Salade de pommes de terre, 265. 
Salade de pommes de terre aux 

truffes, 335. 
Salade msse, 305. 
Salmis de becasses, 256. 
Salmis de cuisses de canetons, 112. 
Salmis de macreuses, 254. 
Salpicon, 241. 
Salsifis frits, 221, 284. 
Sanglier (cuissot de), 263. 
Sarcelles aux olives, 237. 
Sarcelles r6ties, 39. 
Sauce allemande, 93. 
Sauce 4 la b^hamel gprasse, 229. 
Sauce Wz. bechamel maigre, 231. 
Sauce ^ la bourgeoise, 209. 
Sauce k la cardinal, 325. 
Sauce k la Duxelle, 146. 
Sauce k la menthe, 89. 
Sauce 4 la puree d*oignons blancs, 

346. 
Sauce ^ tous rotif, 267. 
Sauce au beurre, 22. 
Sauce au beurre d*nnchois, 96. 
Sauce au beurre noir, 288. 
Sauce au citron, 207. 
Sauce au homard, 116. 
Sauce au pauvre homme, 205. 
Sauce aux anchois, 152. 
Sauce aux capres, 124. 
Sauce \ la creme, 142. 
Sauce aux eschalotes, 283. 
Sauce au fenouil, 191. 
Sauce aux groseilles vertes, 138, 

171. 
Sauce aux huitres, 323. 
Sauce au kari, 367. 
Sauce aux tomates, 6. 
Sauce b6amaise, 367. 
Sauce blanche, 31. 
Sauce bordelaise, 304. 



DES MATlkRES. 



Sauce Chateaubriand, 8i. 

Sauce chaud-fioid de pecdicaux on 

de Ij^casses, 329. 
Sauce chaad-froid de volallle, 339. 



Sauce diplc 

Sauce espngnolc, 30s. 

Sauce i la financiere, 361. 

Sauce pencvoisc, 177. 

Sauce hollandaise, i\. 

Sauce italienne, 2S7. 

Sauce inadere, 232. 

Sauce matlre d'hdtel, 83. 

Sauce matelote, 352. 

Sauce aux crevettes, 177. 

Sauce mayonnaise, 176. 

Sauce mou^tietaire, 214. 

Sauce petigueux, 301. 

Sauce piquanle, 17S. 

Sauce poivrade. Si, loi. 

Sauce pour toutes sortcs de viaiides 

Tolies de desserte, 356. 
Sauce poitugaise, 255. 



Sauce i^mouh 

Sauce Robert, 64. 

Sauce tartare, 75. 

Sauce verte, 97. 

Sauce Villeioi, 363. 

Sanmon a)i bleu, 228. 

SaumOQ grille, 132, 

Saumon saut£, 189. 

Saute de jilels de bfcasses ^ la pro- 

¥CQ9ale, 271. 
Sautf de filets de volaille, 360. 
Saut^ de filets d$ volaille ^ la car- 

dinal, 308. 
Sauls de perdreauK aox truRes, 321. 
Sel ^pice, 257. 
Selle d'agneau brais^ garme de ris- 

soles, I So. 
Selle d'agneau tolie, 77, 
Selle de mouton h. la broche, 178, 
Selle de mouton ik I'anglaise, 12, 



399 

Sole ^ la Colbert, 321. 

Sole en matelote nonnaiide, 364. 

Sole (aide aux fiiiei berbci, 137. 

Sole friie, 299. 

Soles (lilets de] Jlla O1I7, 38. 

Soles ii la parUienne, 131. 

Soles au vin blanc, 147. 

Sole* en turban, 113. 

Soles frites, 161. 

Soaffl^ de riz, 66. 

Souffle glac4 vanaie et chocolat. 



Talmouses i la Saint DenU, 131. 
Tfllmouses sans fiomage, 390. 
Tanches au court-bouUloii, 79. 
Tancbes grille^s, 40. 
Tanches sur le gril, 91 
Tanches it la poulette, 34. 
Tanches frites, 146, 3io. 
Tarteletleb i In vanille, 6g. 
Tendrons d'agneau aux poLntes d'as* 

perges, 79. 
Tendrons de veau 3l la mayonnaise, 

174- 
Tendrons de veau i la poulette, 134. 
Tendrons de veau aa blanc, 45, aio. 
Tendrons de veau aux petits pois. 

238. 

Terrine de foie gras, 163, 

Tete de veau i la Desliliire, 42. 

T£te de veau farde, 245, 

TJte de veau natare, 24. 

Thon frit, 348. 

Thon grills k la purfe d'oseille, 

Timbale i la champenoise, 290. 
Timbale de macaroni, 306. 
Timbale de nouilles, 335.) 
Timbales de semonle au chasseur. 



400 



TABLE ALPHABAtIQUE. 



TrniTes an Tin de champagne^ 338. 
Trufles sons la cendre, 363. 
Troite an benne d'anchois, 96. 
Trnite an cooit-booilloiiy 55. 
Truite sance genevoise, 177. 
Truites ^ la diamboid, 77. 
Truites \ la hussarde, 124. 
Truites k la Saint Florentin, 2S. 
Truites k I'espagnole, 158. 
Turbot ^ la hollandaise, 233. 
Turbot an four, 231. 
Turbot au gratin, 95. 
Turbot en mayonnaise, 254. 
Turbot sauce au raifort, iSiS. 



V. 



Vanxeau roti, 68. 



Vanneanx bardfe rStis, 183. 
Vean en blanqnette, 351.. 
Veau en firicandean, 132. 
Vean (roneUe de) en thon, 271. 
Vean (amourettes de) frites, 350. 
Vean (tete de) nature, 24. 
Vean (cane de) pique et braise, 

265. 
Vean (rondle de) en thon, 271. 
Veloute de menages, 236. 
Venaison (quartier de ^ Fanglaise, 

358. 
Vives a la maitre dliotel, 297. 

Vives ^ la normande, 240. 

Vives an gratin, 135. 

Vol-au-yentd*amourettes i la creme, 

147. 
Vol-au-vent d'oeufs ^ la bechamel, 

41. 



THE END. 



PRINTED BY GILBERT AND RIVINGTON, UMITED, ST. JOHN's SQUARE, E.C. 



-^ 



^.' 



s 






I-- 










tVv, : 



