-€" 



cxAQaQ-iAt. 



.^*^._-^.r'^.A.^ 



/ 
/ ^ 



.^ 






# 



ki. 



k^ 






^, 



:.m- 



'A<r 



4 





Boston Public Library 

Do not write in this book or mark it with pen or 
pencil. Penalties for so doing are imposed by the 
Revised Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 


This book zcas issued to the borrower on the date 
last St am ted belotv. 


m!^ -i> >9t" 


1 


















































- 


















































FORM NO. 609; 12,3,37: SOOII. 



CHOICE DISHES AT SMALL COST, 



Choice Dishes 



AT SMALL COST, 



A. G. PAY^^E. 



Cass ELL. Petter. Galpix ^^ Co. 



LONDON, PARIS t NEW YORK 
[all ri(4hts reserved. I 
1882. 



MOf 



(^003-^f 



H 



PREFACE. 



The present book is addressed to that large class 
of persons who are unable to have the assistance 
of a staff of well-trained servants. There are 
hundreds of thousands of households in England 
where the mistress, who is possessed of every 
refinement of taste, is compelled to personally 
superintend the domestic arrangements, in order 
to ensure that amount of comfort and cleanliness 
wliich, coupled with economy, are essential to their 
very existence. 

There is another large class who gain their living 
by the sweat of their brow rather than their brain, 
who consider it essential to their comfort to have 
something cooked expressly for them every day. 
Like Jeames, they cannot eat cold meat ; like Mrs. 
Gamp, they scorn hash. I pity the poor, hard- 
working, unselfish wives of these spoilt children of 
so-called modern civilisation, but fear 1 cannot 
assist them. 

There are, unfortunately, many whose tastes are 
somewhat above their means. To these it is 
essential that their food should be not only cheap 



IV PREFACE. 

but choice. In other words, it must be " selected 
and used with care." 

It is impossible where only one or two servants 
are kept to have really '' choice cookery " without 
the supervision of the more refined taste of the 
mistress. Should the following pages assist any in 
that daily labour of love of making Home comfort- 
able, they will not have been Avritten in vain. 

A. G. Payne. 



Choice Dishes at Small Cost. 



I N T R D U C T LO K 

It will, I think, be universally admitted as a fact, 
that many of our continental neighbours live, not 
only much more economically, but better than we 
do. The daily cost of living of a family abroad, 
whose annual income is 10,000 francs, should be 
contrasted with one at home whose income is 
£400 a year. Is there any reason why the 
former should live better than the latter 1 
Probably, so far as materials go, the English are 
the best off. Better meat, as a rule, is to be 
obtained in England than on the Continent, but, 
unfortunately, worse dinners are made from it. 

The art of cooking, as well as our habits of 
living, are to a great extent matters of tradition 
that have been handed down from mother to 
daughter for generations past, not only in England 
but elsewhere, and probably for many generations 
to come will these same habits be maintained. 
The Frenchman will always commence his dinner 
with some soup and bread, because he cannot 
afford to dine without it. The Englishman will 



2 CHOICE DISHES 

rarely have soup ]>ecaiise he tliinks it too extra- 
vagant. 

The chief causes of the superiority of foreign 
cooking to English are — First. The art of cooking 
is better understood. Secondly. Foreigners take 
far more trouble than we do. Thirdly. They 
generally have better cooking implements. 

In a very large proportion of English houses the 
kitchen utensils are not in keeping with the other 
appointments of the house. The contrast between 
a small foreign kitchen, with its rows of bright 
copper stewpans, and an English one, with its few 
blackened saucepans, its one burnt frying-pan, and 
often no stewpan at all, Avill to a certain extent 
explain the reasons why our dinners so differ from 
what we get abroad. 

One of our most fixed traditions is that three 
courses are more extravagant than one. There are, 
I fear, few English housekeepers who would con- 
sider a dinner consisting of, say, soup, then some 
fish, or a dish of macaroni, followed by a roast leg 
of mutton, cheaper than simply a roast leg of 
mutton by itself. 

There are many persons who pride themselves 
on their economy, and it will be often found that 
those who most pride themselves are the very ones 
who fail to be reallv economical throui(h iornorance. 
We will take the very common case of a family 
consisting of, say, husband and wife and f[\Q 



AT SMALL COST. 6 

children, and one woman-servant. The means of 
the family are such that economy is desirable, but 
yet there is no stint, and all at each meal are 
allowed to have as much as they like. 

On grounds of economy soup should be served 
every day at the commencement of dinner, and 
when fish is cheap it should always follow the 
soup. AVhen fish cannot be obtained, it will be 
found that a dish of macaroni or rice, cooked in 
the Italian fashion, to be eaten before the meat, 
will be the means of lessening the expense of the 
weekly bills, and at the same time the dinner will 
be better in appearance, and more wholesome. 

The Italian who commences his dinner with a 
gigantic portion of macaroni, or Risotto, lives far 
more economically than we do. The cheap dish of 
flour or rice acts as a damper on the appetite, and 
when the meat follows, naturally one-half only is 
consumed of what would have been taken had 
there have been only a joint ; and probably many 
of us, especially children, eat far too much meat, 
and too little of flour and vegetables, in their 
ordinary every-day dinner. 

A dinner for young persons, and indeed for all, 
commencing with potato soup, and some plain fish, 
ending with meat, would be more wholesome, and 
certainly more economical, than a dinner consisting 
of meat alone. 

The soup should contain somo goodness in it, for 



4: CHOICE DISHES 

it should be borne in mind that a healthy appetite 
must be satisfied, if not in one way, then in 
another. Some persons consider it extravagant to 
use extract of meat at all. If, however, one 
pennyworth of extract of meat is the means of 
causing the eater to take three pennyworth of 
meat less, we make a clear gain of twopence. 

In ordering fish, try and make a bargain with 
your fishmonger to supply you with a small 
quantity each day, leaving it to him to send what 
fish he likes. There are many who would under- 
take to supply two pounds of fish daily for six- 
pence. It is greatly to be regretted that the 
thousands of tons of fish that can be obtained at 
an original cost of less than one penny a pound 
cannot be turned to better account than it is. In 
the following pages will be found directions for 
cooking almost every kind of fish to be met 
with in this country, both sea and fresh-water 
fish. 

One of the most common forms of waste from 
ignorance is over-cooking, especially in roasting 
and frying. Take the case of geese and ducks, 
turkeys, and hare, what a common thing it is to 
find these over-roasted ; the meat dry, the breast- 
bones having the appearance of being burnt up in 
the fire. Fried whiting and soles, how often are 
these juicy 1 

It is essential for economical cooking that the 



AT SMALL COST. 5 

housekeeper should look ahead. Too often the 
mistress of the house will consult with the cook, 
or make her own arrangements for to-day's dinner, 
directly after breakfast. Too late. Arrange each 
day for to-inorroio's dinner. I will give a simple 
case. The family consists of husband and wife and 
five children, and one servant. The usual dinner- 
hour is two o'clock. The joint to-day is roast leg 
of mutton. Arrange, as is often done, to make some 
hash for to-morrow's dinner. To order the hash 
to-morrow will be too late. 

By four o'clock the joint will be nearly cold, if 
not quite. Cut all the meat from the bone, chop 
up the bone and put it on, with whatever odds and 
ends of vegetables you can find, to stew to make 
stock to-day. (See No. 10.) There is generally 
a kitchen fire. It will cost no more fuel. Turn 
this stock out into a basin the last thing at night. 
Kemove the fat the first thing in the morning, and 
put it on again. You will now have "stock." 

This stock will help to make the hash good. It 
will also, with the remains of cold potato left from 
yesterday, and an onion and a pint of milk, make 
some good potato soup. Yet in nine cases out of ten 
the leg of mutton is put in the larder, the meat cut 
ofi* in the morning it is required, the bone stewed 
for about an hour. Of course the so-called stock 
is ditch-water. Stock cannot be made properly 
under five hours, slow stewing. 



6 CHOICE DISHES 

I do not know of any maxim so important m 
economical housekeeping as to arrange to-day what 
we shall have to-morrow, and as a rule, unless the 
weather is exceptional, to get in to-day what we 
want for to-morrow. There is no worse sign of mis- 
management than the running out just before 
dinner for something that " they have forgotten to 
send." 

Of course it is not practicable in all cases, but 
by far the most economical form of marketing is, 
ready money and a basket. 

I will now endeavour to give a few liints on 
what may be called kitchen management; and to 
begin with, a few words may not be out of place 
on 

Cleanliness. 

It is needless to impress upon you the import- 
ance of cooking in clean saucepans ; if your own 
common sense does not teach you this no amount 
of writing will avail. The great art of saving 
trouble in cleaning saucepans is to avoid making 
them " troublesomely dirty." I will explain what 
I mean by the following example. You have 
boiled, say, a pint of milk in an enamelled saucepan 
to add to some stock for white soup. The milk 
has boiled up, and you are about to pour it into 
the other saucepan containing the stock. You 
pour it at once, putting down the saucepan to be 



AT SMALL COST. 7 

washed up l)y-and-by. It will give you a lot of 
trouble. The bottom of the saucepan was far 
hotter than boiling point. It has burnt the milk 
left quite hard, and it will want a great deal of 
scrubbing with ashes or silver sand. Suppose, 
however, you had not been quite so much in a 
hurry. The milk has boiled. Take up the sauce- 
pan and put it by the side of the fire for a minute ; 
then pour out the milk, put the saucepan under 
the boiler tap, rinse it, pour out the water, and 
wipe it with a cloth directly. It is clean, or 
nearly so. 

In fact, always bear in mind that there is no 
occasion to take a saucepan off the fire and pour 
out its boiling contents instantly. The saucepan 
should be placed on the side for half a minute on 
the cool part ; then pour out the contents and 
instantly put the saucepan under the boiler tap, 
and rinse it round. The amount of trouble this 
will save you is really incalculable. Try and get 
into the habit of it. 

Another very important point in kitchen manage- 
ment is to 

Clear up as you go along. 

"Whatever you do, don't get yourself into a 
muddle, surrounded by dirty plates, dirty knives, 
spoons, saucepans, and the kitchen table littered all 
over with bottles, pots, jars^ (tc. When you go to 



8 CHOICE DISHES 

a cupboard for, say a jar of rice, take out what you 
want, but get in the habit of putting the jar back 
at the time, and don't put it on the table to accu- 
mulate with other jars, &c., till there is no space 
left. Have a jug of hot water into which you can 
dip at once the kniv^es and forks you use in cook- 
ing, so that they are clean again as soon as they 
are dirtied. Think beforehand how many hot 
plates will be required for dinner. Arrange them in 
piles, and see they are not dusty ; get them 
thoroughly hot in good time. See that the cloth is 
laid half-an-hour at least before dinner. I have 
known servants fry the fish^ and put it in the oven 
to keep hot, take down the joint, and put it in a 
dish before the fire, and then commence to lay the 
cloth. Where only one general servant is kept, 
if you have soup and fried fish, I should recom- 
mend the soup to be taken in before commencing to 
fry the fish, but everything must be got ready, and 
the fat hot. 

Before commencing to serve dinner, as much as 
possible clear up the kitchen. Have everything 
ready at hand, such as vegetable dishes with hot 
water in them. See that the dish for the meat is 
hot, and, if there is a joint, send a little gravy in 
with it at starting, and have the remainder in a 
saucepan on the fire. Pour this into a jug hot, 
and pour it over the joint in time for what is known 
as the " second help." 



AT SMALL COST. 9 

A very common failing point with cooks, from 
Avant of forethought, is in 

Serving Vegetables. 

Vegetables, especially greens of all kinds — peas 
and French beans for instance — should be kept boil- 
ing till done, and then served directly. Cooks too 
often strain off vegetables too soon, and keep them 
hot, thus spoiling them. Suppose you have a dish 
of green peas. Calculate how long it will be 
before they are wanted, and allow that time. 
Suppose they are young green peas, they will take 
twenty minutes. If there is soup and fish, you 
must not tlu'ow the peas into boiling water till 
just before you take in the soup. Have ready on 
the kitchen table a vegetable dish with a little hot 
water in it. Have also ready a colander in a good- 
sized basin. "When you take in the joint, come 
back quickly into the kitchen, pour the boiling 
peas into the colander, empty the vegetable dish 
into the saucepan, turn the peas into the hot vege- 
table dish, put on the cover, and take them into 
the dining-room. How different these peas will be 
to those strained off perhaps five, or even ten, 
minutes before. Everything, however, depends on 
getting things arranged beforehand. In fact, what 
is wanted is common forethought ; and in perhaps 
few cases is this so much required as in attention to 



10 CHOICE DISHES 



The Kitchen Boiler. 



That is, if yon are unfortunate enough to have 
one that requires filling by hand. It will be found 
tliat this boiler has a trick of getting empty. The 
only way to avoid this is to have a can of water 
always kept by the side, and to contract the habit 
of never taking water out of the boiler without 
filling it up. As a rule, servants, especially young 
ones, cannot be induced to keep the boiler filled. 
Threats and entreaties are alike in vain. There is 
but one course open, and that is to do it yourself. 
The most important time to fill the boiler is just 
before sending in dinner, because you will shortly 
afterwards require plenty of hot water for what is 
known as 

Washixg-up. 
And I would strongly advise you to insist upon 
this being done as soon as possible after dinner. 
When dinner draws to a close, have a tin tub 
filled with hot water, with a good handful of soda 
in it. Let the plates be scraped, and put in this at 
once. Wash the silver first, by washing the spoons 
and forks in this hot water and soda, then rinse 
them in some cold water, and dry them and put 
them by. Next the kni\'es. Don't put the knives 
into hot water ; but hold them by the handles, and 
wash the blades and wipe them : this is quite 



AT SMALL COST. 11 

sufficieni for the present. Next, the plates and 
dishes. Take them out one by one, Avash them 
with an old cloth round the insides and back, 
and throw them into another tub of cold water ; 
then drain them on a plate rack. Last of all, 
wash the sauce})ans. Brush the outsides first 
with a stiff brush, wash the insides with liot 
soda and water, rinse with fresh w^ater, and dry 
them. Be very careful also about washing the 
lids, especially round the rim. If a saucepan has 
got at all burnt, ashes out of the grate or silver 
sand are very good to clean it with. Take extra 
care in washing any kettle that has boiled fish. 
A saucepan that has warmed up curry sauce also 
takes a lot of washing. 

Glass should be washed in cold water. Avoid 
using a greasy tub. Glasses should be rinsed in 
cold water ; pass the finger and thumb round the 
rim, then turn them upside down to drain and dry. 
When dry, polish them with a clean dry cloth, and 
finish w^ith a clean leather before placing them on 
the table. Silver, if washed free from grease, and 
rubbed Avhen dry with a leather, does not require 
being cleaned with whiting more than once a 
week. 

Have a set of iron spoons for cooking purposes, 
and don't use silver-plated spoons for stirring-up 
saucepans. Keep your iron spoons clean as you go 
along, with a jug of liot water. 



12 CHOICE DISHES AT SMALL CUST. 

As a rule, servants make much more fuss about 
washing-up than it deserves. It is far better to 
get it done at once after dinner than to leave piles 
of dirty plates, which require far more washing 
after the f\it ha^ hardened upon them. 

Directly you have finished washing-up, see what 
is left from dinner for the " stock-pot " — the gravy 
from the dish, tlie bone from the joint, one or two 
boiled carrots or turnips that may be left, chicken- 
bones, &c. If you can get a leg of mutton bone 
with all the meat cut off, or a beef bone, chop it 
up at once, and let it simmer with all the odds and 
ends of vegetables, sticks of celery left, onion, &c. 
By this means you will have some stock for to- 
morrow, and in no other way. (See No. 10.) 

Suppose a little cold meat is required for supper. 
A few nicely-cut slices, placed on a a dish orna- 
mented with parsley, and perhaps a few lettuce 
leaves, have a far better appearance than a half-bare 
bone ; and, by cutting off the meat, you can utilise 
the bone at once. 

Last, but not least, let not only the kitchen be 
left perfectly tidy the last thing at night, but also 
the dining-room. If servants, coming down early 
iu the morninof, find that -the dinine^-room or 
drawing-room has been left in an awful muddle, 
the effect is demoralising. " The master makes 
the man," the mistress the maid. 



TIE ST LESSONS. 

No. 1. — To Boil and Simmer. 

It may seem a contradiction to say so, but tlie 
great art of boiling meat properly is not to let the 
meat boil. When we speak of boiling meat, we 
mean that the meat is to be eaten, for very often 
meat is placed in water for the purpose of getting 
the juices out of it. AYe will describe first how to 
boil a joint of meat — say, a leg of mutton or a 
piece of silverside of beef, weighing about 8 or 9 
lbs., and explain the reasons of what we do. 

When the water in a saucepan bubbles at the 
top and steams, it is said to boil, and if you put 
meat into it in this state the meat very soon 
becomes hard and tough. The reason of this is 
that meat contains a good deal of a substance the 
same as the white of an egor. Now vou know a 

act «/ 

raw egg is a liquid, but if you boil it, it becomes 
hard from being heated. Just so with the meat. 

When we boil meat to eat it, what we want is to 
have the meat tender and as much goodness in it 
as is possible. In fact our endeavour must be to 
keej) the flavour in. Therefore, take a saucepan / 



14 CHOICE DISHES 

large enough to hold the meat, and place in it a 
sufficient quantity of water to cover the meat. Add 
a spoonful of salt. Place the saucepan on the 
fire and bring the water to a boil. As soon as the 
water boils — and you can tell when it boils by its 
bubbling — place the joint of meat in it. Be sure 
that the water covers the meat. Take care also 
that the meat is clean. You should wipe it with 
a cloth, but do not wash the meat, as by so doing 
you will lose some of the goodness. Of course, 
putting in a large joint of meat will stop the water 
from boiling. Put the lid on the saucepan, which 
must be kept on the fire, and wait a short time — 
about ten minutes — then take off the lid and take 
a large spoon and skim off tlie surface the dirty 
sort of frotli that has risen to the top. This is 
called scum, and is one of the very few thmgs in 
cooking that may be thrown away. This scum will 
rise before the water begins to boil again, and 
should be carefully removed at once. Wlien you 
know more about cooking, you will know that this 
is more important than you think it is now. As 
soon as the water boils thoroughly once again, lift 
the saucepan off" the fire on to the side, so as to 
stop the boiling at once. Now the outside of the 
meat has been in contact with boiling water, and 
therefore has got hard, but it is only the outside, 
and this is what we wanted, as the meat will be 
entirely surrounded by a rather hard skin_, not 



AT SMALL COST. 15 



thicker, perhaps, tlian a kid glove, wliich h.ard skin 
will help to keep in the juice and gravy, or what 
we call the goodness. Let the saucepan now stand 
for some time off the fire — say for a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes — so that the meat may get 
hot right through. 

This will prevent the meat at the finish being 
overboiled outside, and blue in the middle. Then 
place the saucepan on the fire again, and let it 
'"' simmer." The time for simmering should be 
from ten to twelve minutes for every pound of 
meat. Next : Do you understand what I mean 
by " simmer " ? because this is the point where 
you wi]l probably begin to break dow^i. My 
experience is, that not one cook in a hundred 
seems to distinguish between simmering and boil- 
ing. They say, oh ! its only boiling very gently. 
Now it is a fact that water, if it boils at all, is 
just as hot boiling gently as it is when it boils 
what cooks call furiously. I have, however, given 
up, years back, the idea of making cooks believe 
this. They simply won't. First, simmering is not 
boiling at all ; it is keeping the water nearly 
boiling. When it is in this state little tiny 
buVjbles every now and then come up at the edges, 
but you must not let it get beyond this point. 

The meat w^ill be done after it has simmered for 
the time I said. Then take it out of the water, 
and place it on a dish previously made very hot. 



16 CHOICE DISHES 

Pour about half a pint of tne liquor in whicli it 
has been boiled over it, and send up another half- 
pint, or rather more, of boiling liquor about a 
quarter of an hour afterwards, to be poured over 
the meat in time for the " second help." When a 
joint is very small and thin — for instance, a thin 
piece of neck of mutton — it should be placed in 
liot water, but not boiling, as you risk making it 
hard. The water tlien should only simmer, and 
.should never boil at all. 

Salt meat should be put in cold water after 
being washed thoroughly in fresh water. The 
water should then be slowly brought up to the 
simmering point. 

In boiling fish, recollect that white fish cooks 
quicker than meat ; all large white fish should 
be placed in cold water, and then brought gradually 
to the boiling point, and then be allowed to go off* 
the boil and simmer gently, e.g., turbot, cod, skate, 
plaice, large haddocks, hake, halibut, brill. A 
tablespoonful of salt should be added to every half- 
gallon of water. Keep the fish white side upper- 
most. Rub the white side if possible with a 
slice of lemon before putting it into the water ; or 
with a cloth dipped in a little vinegar and water- 
half and half. 

In boiling fish be very careful about skimming. 
Take off every speck of scum. Ordinary-sized fish 
are done within a few minutes from the time the 



AT SMALL COST. 17 

water lias boiled. Even a good-sized turbot need 
only simmer for a quarter of an hour or twenty 
minutes. 

Be careful in taking out the fish not to break it. 
If you have a fish-kettle and a drainer this is easy ; 
if you have not a drainer it is difficult. A couple 
of large slices used for taking up fried eggs — one 
each side — and a steady hand, and not being in 
a hurry, will generally be found successful. A 
large turbot should be cut across the dark side 
previous to its being placed in the fish-kettle, in 
order to prevent the white side splitting whilst 
boiling. 

Small fish, such as soles, flounders, slices of cod, 
ifcc, are best put into warm (not boiling) water. 
Salmon and trout are best put into boiling water. 
This wall take the water off the boil ; then let 
them simmer till done. Salmon and trout require 
longer boiling than ordinary fish. 

Lastly, never attempt to boil frozen meat or fish 
till it has thawed. Meat is best thawed gradually 
l)y being placed in a hot kitchen for a few hours ; 
fish is best thawed by being placed in water the 
temperature of summer heat. 

Bacon, pork, and ham should be placed in cold 
water, and brought gradually to the simmering 
point. Turkeys, fowls, rabbits, ttc, should be placed 
in warm water and then simmered. Recollect, 
vegetables require boiling, meat only simmering; 
c 



18 CHOICE DISHES 

therefore you can never, as a rule, boil vegetables 
with the meat without spoiling one of them. 

The water in which every kind of meat, poultry, 
and fish is boiled must be skimmed. IST.B. — The 
temperature of boiling water is 212*^. The tem- 
perature of water simmering should be about 160^ 
to 170^. Meat will generally take a little longer 
time to boil in winter than in summer, even if 
not frozen. 

No. 2.— To Stew. 

Stewing is a process often confounded by very 
ignorant persons with ''boiling for a long time/' and 
sometimes, by even moderate cooks, with " simmer- 
ing." The latter are not so very far from the 
mark, but the difference between meat simmered 
and meat stewed is, that in the former case, the 
meat had to be eaten by itself — that is, the greater 
portion of the water in which it was simmered 
was reserved for something else, and the meat 
w^as taken out immediately it was sufiiciently 
cooked. A stew, properly so called, is when both 
meat and juice — that is, all the liquor — are eaten 
together ; consequently, there is no occasion to 
harden the meat to keep in the flavour. 

The old-fashioned French country method of 
stewing gives the idea to perfection. Place all the 
ingredients into a pipkin, or earthen vessel, with a 
tight-fitting lid, moistened with a very little water. 



AT SMALL COST. 19 

Place this in the hot ashes of a wood fire, and pile 
the ashes round it. It can then be left for hours, 
and, after even eight or more hours a pair of 
bellows will soon bring these ashes to a red 
glow. 

An admirable method of stewing practised in 
England is to get a jar with a lid that fits tight, 
with an iron claw. Put the jar in the oven, and 
throw up all the ashes on the fire, so as to keep 
in a very slack tire a long time. 

Stewing is the most economical method of cook- 
ing meat I know, besides being a very nice one. 
I know of no other method of cooking a tough 
fowl so as to make the meat eatable. A very 
low temperature for a very long time helps to 
make tough meat not merely eatable, but palat- 
able. 

I think there is a little prejudice with ignorant 
and vulgar people about " A Stew " ; if so, you can 
call it a ragout. Pieces, or what some poor house- 
keepers know as "block ornaments," make a most 
delicious ragout^ or stew. 

As the name implies, stewing is generally done 
in a stew-pan. The lid should fit tight, and not be- 
taken off", if possible, during the long process of 
stewing. A 41b. weight can with advantage be 
placed on the lid to keep it down. You must, of 
course, take precautions against its accidentally 
boiling. In stewing, you can cook meat and vege- 



20 CHOICE DISHES 

tables altogether. Whatever you do, don't let it 
boil, or even get near the boiling point. 

No. 3.— To Roast. 

E ousting, or cooking meat by hanging it in front 
of an open fire, is not so common a process now as 
it was some twenty years ago, as nearly all modern 
houses are fitted with shut-up stoves. 

The advantages of roasting over baking are — 
1st, it is far easier to baste, and, 2nd, the joint is 
surrounded by fresh air. — (Some modern ovens are, 
however, admirably ventilated.) In roasting a 
joint, the first thing to be considered is to get a 
clear fire, well made up — i.e., not hollow — and this 
fire should loe carefully attended to till the joint is 
finished. In putting coals on to a roasting fire, 
pull the coals forward with a shovel, and put the 
fresh coals on at the back. Take care, in doing 
this, that you don't knock any coals into the 
dripping-pan. 

The dripping-pan is the vessel placed under the 
meat to catch the drippings. " Basting " means 
pouring hot fat from the dripping-pan over the 
joint from time to time with a spoon. The more 
you baste the meat, the better it will be. A 
roasting-jack (see Bottle-Jack and Screen) is 
a piece of clockwork which is wound up and 
causes the meat to turn round. This is o^ene- 



AT SMALL COST. 21 

rally liuiig on to a hook under the kitchen mantel- 
piece. 

If you have not a roasting-jack, a piece of strong, 
coarse string will do very well, and almost answeis 
the same purpose; but it requires watching, -as, 
should the meat cease to turn round, it will burn. 
A strong iron hook should be run firmly into the 
meat, and then hooked on to the jack or fastened 
to the string. Get the dripping-pan ready before 
the joint, and have a little hot melted fat or 
dripping ready in it at starting. This will soon be 
very much increased in quantity by the drippings 
from the joint. Dripping is melted fat, and when 
it is in any quantity should be partly taken away, 
as the joint roasts, in order to keep it of a nice 
colour. 

To roast properly, the front of the fire must be 
bigger than the joint. You cannot roast a large 
joint before a little fire. Always hang meat with 
the biggest part downwards : allow for the meat 
having a tendency to break after cooking when you 
put the hook in it. For instance, a leg of mutton 
may be hung safely, when raw, by the split or hole 
in the bone : but this will give way very often 
when partially cooked. 

When you put down the joint to the fire, put it 
close at starting, so as to harden the outside, and 
baste with very hot fat ; after some ten minutes, 
draw back the joint a little. The time, on the 



22 CHOICE DISHES 

average, for beef ana mutton is a quarter of an hour 
for every pound of meat, or a little longer. This 
is with a really good fire, and for solid pieces 
of meat. It is evident that a loin of mutton 
weighing, say eight pounds, will take no longer, 
or very little longer, than one weighing four 
pounds, if you have a good large fire as it is simply 
twice as long. 

The smaller the joint or bird, the more quickly 
should it be roasted. The joint should be of a rich 
Spanish mahogany colour outside. Brown the 
joint by putting it closer to the fire, and never flour 
it at all. To do so spoils the flavour of the meat, 
and ruins the gravy made from the sediment of the 
dripping. The general fault in roasting pork and 
veal is that it is not roasted enough. Beef and 
mutton, as I have said, should be allowed a 
quarter of an hour for every pound, and a little 
time over, say ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, 
for small joints. Lamb requires twenty minutes 
for each pound. Pork and veal require half an 
hour for each pound up to nine or ten pounds. 
The management of large joints exceeding this 
weight is a subject into which we need not here 
enter. 

The almost universal fault with inexperienced 
cooks in roasting game and poultry is, that they 
over-cook them, especially ducks and geese, par- 
tridges, and indeed all game. The meat on the 



AT SMALL COST. 23 

Ijreast should cut juicy and moist ; the breast-bone, 
when bare after the meat has been cut off, should 
not have the appearance of having been burnt in 
the fire. If the stuffing be placed in a goose or a 
duck (see No. 17) warm, a good-sized goose will not 
take more than one and a quarter to one and a 
half hours to roast, and a duck about forty 
minutes. 

You must first see to the colour of the joint, about 
a quarter of an hour before you send it up. If too 
pale, put it nearer the fire, and then take the 
dripping-pan, and carefully pour ofi" all the fat into 
a basin till you come to the discoloured dregs. 
This will make the gravy. Then pour into the pan 
about a pint (for a large joint) of boiling water, or 
still better, stock (see No. 11), and, so to speak, 
wash the dripping-pan in this liquid. Rub all the 
brown specks — which are really dried-up gravy, 
in substance somewhat like extract of meat — and 
dissolve them in the liquid ; then strain the whole 
through a small sieve into a saucepan. If the 
joint has been properly roasted, and the fire been a 
good one, this gravy will be a nice brown colour. 
Skim off any grease that may be on the top, and 
set the saucepan on the side of the fire to keep hot, 
but do not make it boil up. Next, unhook the 
joint ; place it on a very large hot dish ; pour half 
the gravy into the dish, not over the joint ; send 
up the other half of the gravy, very hot, to 



24 CHOICE DISHES 

be poured over the joint in time for the second 
help. 

Do not unhook the joint till you have seen to the 
gravy. When you take away the dripping-pan, 
you must, of course, put a dish under the joint to 
catch the dripping. 

All game and poultry require a fierce, clear fire 
and constant basting, and should be sent to table 
direct from roasting, and not be finished long 
before they are wanted, and then " kept hot." 
This " keeping hot " is the ruin of inexperienced 
cooks, and, indeed, o'f a good many experienced 
ones. 

No. 4.— To Bake. 

It is very easy to bake a joint in a large bakers* 
oven, but not so easy in a little oven in which one 
side is a great deal hotter than the other, and 
which also has a trick of very often suddenly 
getting cold, without any apparent cause. These 
are the practical difficulties with which most of you 
have to contend, and I can only give a few hints. 
First, many persons are tempted by advertisements 
to try some marvellous stove which saves half the 
fuel, kc. Experience has taught me that these 
four-legged toys don't answer, and that those who 
believe that they will save half their fuel are as 
credulous as the Irishman who bought two stoves, 
in order thereby to save the u'ltoJe. 



AT SMALL COST. 25 

One most common cause of an oven not baking 
properly in a shut-up stove is that the stove is not 
properly cleansed, i.e., the flues get choked with 
soot. You had better call in some practical man, 
and watch him clean the stove. You will very 
likely find that he will get away ten times more 
soot than you would, as he opens the stove in 
unexpected places, tfec. 

To bake a joint properly, the oven must be 
heated to a temperature above that of boiling 
water, and you must have the oven thoroughly hot 
at starting. In each oven there is generally a 
ventilator, i.e., a little thing that slides backwards 
and forwards to let in air. 

At starting, you can shut this, and then open it 
after about ten minutes. It is best, just as in 
boiling and roasting, to expose the meat to a fierce 
heat at starting, in order to surround the meat 
with a hard rim to keep in the flavour. 

Of course you must place the meat on a tin. 
Now, very soon this tin will get full of dripping, 
and if the meat stands in the dripping it will 
not be nice : it gets sodden. Therefore, raise the 
meat ; there are stands on purpose. If you have 
not got one, a small gridiron will do. Don't use 
sticks of firewood, as the heated wood gives a sort 
of turpentine smell. ISText, the fat in the tin, if 
the oven is properly hot, will smoke and give the 
joint a gi'easy taste. Therefore, the tin should be 



2G CHOICE DISHES 

what is called a hot-water tin. A hot-water tin is 
a double tin, with a place for hot water inside. 
These are made specially, and are in almost general 
use. If you have not got one, get two tins, and 
put one inside the other, and keep them an inch 
apart with a couple of sticks of firewood, and then 
fill the bottom tin up to its edge with water. This 
will prevent the upper tin from getting too hot, as 
water cannot get hotter than the boiling point. 

The difiiculty in baking is the basting, which 
ought to be done, say, every quarter of an hour. 
Be as quick as you can about it, and don't keep the 
oven door open longer than you can help. When 
you baste, always look at the joint, and see if one 
side is getting more brown than another; if so, 
turn the joint round ; also, it is well very often to 
turn the joint over. Also, look some half hour 
before it is done, and see if one part looks pale, and 
turn this pale side to the hottest place. Of course, 
with a first-rate oven this is all unnecessary; but 
I am writing for those who have not got first-rate 
ovens. 

Recollect to keep the oven pretty hot by 
keeping up the fire the whole time ; you should 
hear it all frizzling inside. For those who under- 
stand what degrees mean, I will say the tempera- 
ture of an oven for roasting meat, game, poultry, 
pork, veal, &c., should be 30° hotter than boiling 
water; for baking meat pies, 60° hotter than 



AT SMALL COST. 27 

boiling water; and for making- pufF-paste for 
rol-cm-vents, 80° hotter than ])oiling water. This 
last cannot be clone properly in a little common 
oven. 

Next, with regard to time. Remember, baking 
is much quicker than roasting. This latter process 
takes a quarter of an hour for every lb. ; baking 
only wants ten minutes for every lb. In both 
roasting and baking, you must allow a little extra 
time for any joint surrounded with a thick coating 
of fat. For instance, you will often find a sirloin 
of beef cooked, in which the undercut is quite 
underdone, and the other side well done. This is 
simply on account of the hard suet fat whicli 
covered the undercut. 

^yith regard to getting the gravy from the dregs 
of the dripping, &c„ act as with regard to roast 
beef. (See No. 3. — To Roast ; latter part.) 

Pastry of any kind does not want a steaming 
atmosphere ; so never try, if you can possibly 
avoid it, to bake a pie and a joint at the same 
time, as you will be sure to have heavy crust. 

No. 5.— To Grill or Broil 

To grill or broil is to cook over the toj) of a clear 
fire w^here the meat is exposed to the heat and 
occasional flame of the fire. This flame is caused 
by the fat dropping into the fire and catching 



28 CHOICE DISHES 

alight. The common fault in grilling is that cooks 
are too frightened of this flare, which is the thing 
that makes chops and steaks of a good colour. It 
is quite impossible to give any time for cooking a 
chop or steak by grilling. It so varies with the 
fire and the thickness of the meat that to attempt 
to do so would do more harm than good. 

I can only describe to you how a well-cooked 
chop or steak should be when done. First, nearly 
black outside, or, at any rate, of a very dark rich 
old black mahogany colour. Then when cut, the 
inside should be red, and yet not in the least 
blue or flabby in the middle. A good rump steak 
should have a rim of rich yellow fat to it. The 
steak should be served quickly on a very hot dish. 
Have the plates scorching hot. No gravy, no 
sauce, no butter, nothing, but simply the chop 
or steak as it is, and the meat should be hot 
enough to burn your mouth. When cut, about a 
teaspoonful of clear bright red gravy should run 
out into the plate. The only accompaniment 
should be a nice, snowwhite, floury potato. 

It is not so easy to arrive at this pitch of 
perfection as you would think. First, you must 
have a clear fire : without this it is no use attempting 
to grill. The fire, too, must be good, it must not 
be merely the remains, though clear, of a good 
fire. We want a sharp, quick heat. Colour the 
outside of a chop or steak at once; throw little 



AT SMALL COST. 29 

bits of fat or dripping into the fire, and make it 
blaze up. 

Next, liow to tell when it is done. Of course 
you must turn the chop or steak several times, but 
never stick a fork into it, as this would let out the 
gravy and ruin it. 

Press the chop or steak with anything, and if it 
feels spongy, it shows the middle is blue. As I 
have said, get the outside coloured as quick as you 
can, and then you can slightly slacken the heat, or, 
at any rate, as soon as it is dark enough you need 
not keep on flaring. The fire often will flare of its 
own accord quite sufficiently from what drops from 
t]ie steak, without artificial means. The chop or 
steak, directly it ceases to feel spongy, is done, and 
should be allowed to rest for one minute on a very 
hot i)late before it is served. 

In grilling fish, be careful to rub the gridiron 
with a piece of fat to prevent the fish sticking, 
which it is very apt to do. You must watch fish 
carefully, and move it constantly to avoid this. 
The only proper way to cook chops, steaks, fresh 
herrings, sprats, &c., is to grill them. A gridiron 
that has cooked fish wants a lot of cleaning. 

In cooking fish, wrapped up in oiled paper, on a 
gridiron, you must avoid any flare. The fire must 
be very clear, the paper thoroughly oiled, but it 
must not have any oil dropping. 

In grilling bones you cannot have too much flare. 



30 CHOICE DISHES 

or too fierce a beat. What you want in this case 
is burnt meat — animal charcoal, in fact. 

Some persons will attempt to tell you that a 
chop cooked in front of the fire is just the same 
thing as grilled on the top. This is all nonsense. 
They might as well tell you that an oyster out of a 
tin is the same as a freshly-opened native. 

No. 6.— To Fry. 

I don't think I am exaggerating when I say that 
ninety-nine out of a hundred of our English women 
cooks, say, of ten to twenty years' experience, have 
never fried anything in their lives. If, however, 
this expression is a little too strong, it may have 
the efiect of impressing on your minds the fact 
that cooking anything in a frying-pan, with a little 
grease to prevent its sticking, is not frying. 

I don't mean to say that it is not a nice way of 
cooking some things, but it is not frying. 

To fry anything is to cook it by immersing it 
totally in very hot fat. In fact, just as in boiling 
we must let the loater cover what is boiled, so in 
frying we must let the fat cover what is fried. 
This same fat will do over and over again ; there- 
fore it is in the end more economical than using 
a little fresh fat every day and throAving it away. 
Too often cooks put a little dab of grease into a 
frying-pan, and then pour this grease into that 



AT SMALL COST. 31 

abomination in any house — a grease-box — "to be 
sold." It is the duty of every housekeeper to* 
prevent their servants from coming in contact 
with the class of men who ccme round to buy 
kitchen stuff — bottles, bones, rags, &c. These men 
are generally simply receivers of stolen goods. 
The secrets of good frying are — 

1. The fat must be sufficiently deep. 

2. The fat must be sufficiently hot to make a 
piece of bread turn colour directly it is thrown 
in. In fact, the fat should smoke. 

3. When anything is floured before it is fried, it 
must not be floured till the last moment before it 
is plunged into the fat. 

4. When anything is fried that has been egg- 
and-bread-crumbed, it is best to egg-and- bread- 
crumb it some little time before it is fried. 

5. Shut the kitchen door, and ojDen the window 
a little way at the top, so as to avoid making the 
whole house smell like a fried-fish shop. This is 
really a very important practical point which 
should never be forgotten. 

Now, the reason of some of the above directions 
is that the exterior of the substance to be fried 
should be as dry as possible. By this means we get 
a good colour. Fish is cheap, and, when properly 
fried, very nice. You cannot have a better model 
than that cooked at a fried-fish shop. When you 
fry fish at home, the best, cheapest, and simplest 



32 CHOICE DISHES 

method is to dry the hsh, flour it to make it 
thoroughly dry^ and then instantly plunge the fish 
in the fat. Then, remember, if the fat is as hot as 
it should be, a very little time is sufficient to cook 
the fish. The general mistake is to over-cook it. 
Fillets of sole will not take a minute, whitebait 
only a few seconds. The fat for whitebait should 
be hotter than for anything I know. Underdone fish 
is A^ery nasty, but this is no reason for systematically 
over-cooking it. Small mutton cutlets cut from a 
boned loin (the most economical way of cooking a 
loin) will not take more than thirty seconds to 
fry. It is only by following these rules that you 
will get them red and j uicy inside. 

In frying fish in batter, dry the fish, flour it, 
dip in batter, and quickly plunge it into hot 
fat. The batter must be smooth and thick (See 
Batter), As soon as the batter is of a bright 
golden colour, take it out, and, if the fish 
is thick, put it in the oven for a few minutes. 
Kemember, the fat is more than a hundred degrees 
hotter than boiling water, and that the inside part 
of whatever is cooked goes on cooking after it is 
taken out of the fat. 

When you fry parsley, take care that the parsley 
is dry. Always be careful and avoid splashing the 
fat. It is no joke to get a splash of fat of this 
temperature on the hands or arms. 

The reason that fat crackles when it is first put 



AT SMALL COST, 33 

on is that there is generally water with it. This 
water sinks, being heavier than fat, then it is con- 
verted into steam, and these bubbles of steam, 
escaping np through the fat, makes the bubbling. 
"When the crackling ceases, it shows the fat is 
hotter than boiling water, and that is all. If the 
fat was not moist wdth water it would not crackle 
at all. 

When you have finished, pour the fat into a 
basin containing a little hot water, and let it stand 
till it is cold. When you next use fat, take it out 
in one large cake, and scrape the part next the 
water, which will contain impurities, &c. 

Whenever anything is fried, let it drain a short 
time by being thrown on to a very hot dry cloth or 
blotting-paper. There is a coarse paper sold on 
purpose. 

In frying, always, if possible, use a wire frying- 
basket. For whitebait this is indispensable. 

No. 7.— To Fry Bread. 

I have put fried bread under a separate heading 
on purpose to call attention to the economy of 
using up stale pieces of bread, by frying them for 
soups, hashes, &c. I daresay you know that gene- 
rally liashed mutton is surrounded by sippets made 
of toasted bread. How much nicer is it to have 
nice little pieces of fried bread, brown, like a rusk. 

D 



31 CHOICE DISHES 

French cooking, as I have said before, is the 
cheapest and most economical in the world. A 
French workman will live twice as well as an 
English workman on half the money. 

In Paris men go about collecting all the stale 
pieces of bread that have l)een droj^ped on the 
ground in the better restaurants, and these are 
fried and put in the soup made for the poor. Why 
not take a little trouble, and have the stale pieces 
of bread cut up and fried for your pea-soup or 
hash, instead of cutting a slice out of a fresh loaf 
and toasting it ] And yet, if I call these pieces of 
dry bread '' croutons," you have a vague, uneasy 
fear that it must l)e extravagant. 

In frying bread, the bread is best stale. The 
fat must be deep, and the fat can be made hot in a 
little stewpan or saucepan if the fire is pretty 
fierce. It will take some time for the fat to get 
sufiiciently hot. Test it with a small jjiece of 
bread, which should turn a light brown in a few 
seconds. Recollect, in frying bread that the bread 
will get a darker colour after it has been taken out 
of the fat. 

In frying bread for soup, cut the bread into 
small dice. In frying bread-crumbs for game, try 
and get the crumbs the same size. (See No. 20.) 
In frying larger pieces of stale bread for hash, or 
for making first-rate sandwiches, avoid having holes 
near the surface. In cutting bread for frying for 



AT SMALL COST. 6o 

sanchviclies (a great delicacy, Lut not necessarily 
expensive), cut the bread a quarter of an inch 
thick. In cutting stale pieces for hash, you can 
amuse yourself by making fancy shapes, such as 
hearts, rings, stars, <tc., and use up the crumbs for 
something else. Bread-crumbs are always best 
stale. In fact, if you wish to combine strict 
economy with good cooking — and they always go 
together — stale pieces of bread are really valuable. 
In frying bread, be very careful to let them 
drain directly you take them out of the fat. As I 
have said before, blotting-paper is the best thing to 
use. If they get cold with the fat inside, they get 
greasy. Fried bread can be always allowed to get 
cold, and then made hot in the oven on a piece of 
blotting-paper. 

No. 8.— To Steam. 

Cooking by steam in small private houses is 
generally confined to potatoes and puddings. 
Potatoes are cooked in what is called a steamer. 
This is fitted on tight to a saucepan. Puddings 
are very often best steamed in a mould. Pvaise 
the mould on something on the bottom of a 
saucepan, and take care it is so placed that 
it won't easily upset. A very little ingenuity will 
fix it. The mould can be placed on the bottom 
of the saucepan itself, if fairly deep. Fill the 
saucepan about an inch or more deep with M'ater, 



36 CHOICE DISHES 

and lit the lid of the saucepan on tight, and let it 
boil. It is best to place something on the top of 
the mould to avoid the condensed steam dropping 
into the pudding. As the water boils away, more 
must be added from time to time. 

Some persons recommend placing the mould on a 
plate placed upside-down in the saucepan, but 
then the steam will sometimes lift the plate, and 
over we go. 

Don't boil anything in the water with which 
you steam a pudding. It will often make the 
pudding taste nasty. 

No. 9.— To Boil Vegetables. 

In boiling meat, the great point was not to let it 
boil. In boiling vegetables, the great point is not 
to let the boiling stop. All vegetables, with three 
exceptions, must be thrown into boiling water 
which contains salt in the proportion of a brimming 
tablespoonful to every half-gallon of water. 

In order to obtain a good colour, you must not 
shut in the steam. Therefore do not put a lid on 
the saucepan, except to help to make the water boil 
up, for the cold vegetables thrown in will take the 
water off the boil. Have plenty of water, 
especially for greens of all kinds. Choose a big 
saucepan, and get it full of boiling water in plenty 
of time. Then the Avater will come to a boil more 



AT SMALL COST. 37 

quickly after the vegetables are thrown in. It is 
also advisable when boiling greens to soften the 
water by adding a small piece of soda, the size 
of a big pea, or, say, two peas. 

Be very careful to wash vegetables thoroughly, 
and examine them for slugs, &c. Cauliflowers and 
greens should be soaked in salt and water for some 
time for this purpose. Spinach should be allowed 
to float on water in a deep vessel, and then be 
lifted out with the hand and placed in deep water in 
another vessel, in order to let any grit sink. Any 
vegetable peeled should be thrown into cold water 
till it is wanted to boil. In boiling cauliflower, cut 
the stalk so that it will stand upright. Don't let 
the water boil so violently that it makes the cauli- 
flower jump about, as this will break it. Expe- 
rience will best tell you when vegetables are 
sufficiently cooked. As soon as they are tender 
is the point, and you can try them w^itli a 
fork. The moment they are done, take them 
out and serve them, as they get spoilt by over- 
cooking. 

A veri/ common fault with cooks is to get their 
vegetables — greens or cauliflowers, <kc. — done long 
before they are wanted, thereby spoiling them. 
The only remedy for this is common sense. 

The three exceptions to placing vegetables in 
boiling water are old potatoes, old Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, and dried haricot beans. Both these 



38 CHOICE DISHES 

former, wlien new, and the latter when fresh, 
should be placed in boiling water. 

In boiling puddings, such as little suet dumplings 
(time half an hour), put a plate at the bottom of 
the saucepan, as, when first thrown in, they will 
sink, and sometimes stick at the bottom of the 
saucepan and burn. When they swell with boil- 
ing, they get light and float. Puddings are gene- 
rally boiled in a cloth. (See No. 24.) 

No. 10.— Stock, or Broth. 

Broth, Stock, Bomllon or Consomme, for they are 
all one and the same thing, is really the simplest 
and the most delicious kind of soup. It is the pure 
juice of the meat, and a few simple vegetables ; and 
the object of the highest-class cooking is to keep 
this flavour, and not destroy it by the addition of 
strong herbs, spices, mushroom ketchup, burnt sugar, 
fried onions, and fifty other methods that cooks 
have invented for spoiling a good thing. Have you 
ever tasted really good " Bouillon," or Broth '] If 
you have, you know what good soup is. Your one 
endeavour, in preparing the various kinds of soups, 
is to as much as possible retain this flavour. 
Sugar and cinnamon are both nice things in their 
way, but we don't put them into a glass of 1848 
Chateau Lafitte. 

I am not now speaking of thick soups and 



AT SMALL COST. 39 

purees, such as pea-soup, itc, liut of tliat large 
number of soups which consist of some kind of 
vegetable or grain served in a clear broth. I will 
endeavour to explain how to make this kind of 
broth in a cheap and inexpensive manner, without 
buying gravy beef expressly for the purpose. 

This clear, bright, straw-coloured broth is by far 
the most expensive to make good ; and, as it is 
necessary for success to have, if possible, a high 
model before us, I will first describe, very briefly, 
how to make broth for clear soups in a first-class 
manner. 

High-class stock is made by placing gravy beef, 
leg of veal, a few carrots, turnips, leeks and celery 
in a large saucepan on the fire, in cold water, and 
bringing this very slowly to the simmering point, 
and letting it simmer for some eight hours, and then 
the broth is strained off into a large basin, and 
kept in a cool place. The flavour of this is often 
afterwards improved by the addition of the bones 
of rabbits and fowls. The stock obtains its colour 
by being boiled away till it gets gluey, and when it 
gets thick it gradually obtains a bright colour^ at 
first like a beautiful bright sherry. The heat is 
then slackened, and the stock-pot filled up Avith 
water. Then we have our broth, or soup ; no 
flavouring, except its own inimitable one ; all we 
add is a very little salt, and if leeks are scarce 
one or two onions instead. 



40 ■ CHOICE DISHES 

This method is, of course, not adapted to small 
families with limited incomes, Init we can learn 
from it several things. First, to save our rabbit- 
bones and fowl- bones. Next — it is hardly neces- 
sary to add, but really there is no limit to some 
persons' stupidity — we should always save the 
liquor in which any kind of meat has been boiled. 
The boiling down to obtain a colour — or what 
cooks call boiling doAvn to a glaze — naturally 
suggests Liebig's Extract of Meat ; and I would 
here state that I consider a iwoper (not extrava- 
gant) use of extract of meat one of the most useful 
and economical of processes in modern cooking in 
small houses. I would advise every housekeeper 
never to be without it. I would also advise the 
mistress, if she does not do the cooking herself, but 
simply superintends it, to keep the extract of 
meat under her own care, and put it in herself. 
It is a sad fact, but the poorer the class from 
Avhich they spring, and the more ignorant the 
servants, the more recklessly extravagant will they 
be found. 

Capital stock can be made from beef and veal 
bones, but then this stock, though good and nutri- 
tious, will rarely be bright ; and, as occasionally we 
want some really good, clear soup, I will describe 
how to make some. AVe will suppose some occa- 
sion, by way of example, Avhen one entree is required 
for the next day's dinner. 



AT SMALL COST. 41 

I would here just note that in England the 
order of dinners is generally — 1st, soup ; 2nd, fish ; 
3rd, entrees, i.e., savoury dishes, such as oyster 
patties, curried rabbit, &:c. ; then 4th, a joint ; 5th, 
game ; 6th, sweets ; and cheese last of all. 

Our entree for to-morrow's dinner will be curried 
rabbit, and we want some really good clear soup. 
I think to make good clear soup a little knuckle of 
veal necessary, and we will, therefore, on this 
occasion buy two pounds of knuckle of veal for the 
soup. This will cost, as it is chiefly bone, little 
more than a shilling. 

I may here mention that this is the only occasion 
in the wdiole of the present book in which I shall 
order the buying of meat for making soups or 
gravies of any kind whatever. 

We must have by us two pounds of knuckle 
of veal, one rabbit — (the rabbit is not essential 
to the stock) — one onion, one head of celery, a 
good bunch of parsley, one turnip, one carrot, two 
leeks, a little extract of meat, and I will call this 

Stock No. 1. 

First, put the rabbit into cold water, with about 
a tablespoonful of salt to a quart, to soak for a 
couple of hours, or longer. This gets rid of the 
blood, and makes the meat whiter and more tender. 

Next, chop up the knuckle of veal into several 



42 CHOICE DISHES 

pieces ; remove any fat, and also particularly any 
marrow that may have been in the bone. Get a 
large gallon saucepan, be careful it is thoroughly 
clean, especially the lid round the rim. Take a 
little piece of butter and grease the bottom ; then 
place in it the chopped-up veal, part of one head of 
celery (some of the best part should be kept for 
handing round Avitli the cheese), one onion (in 
which you may stick four cloves), one carrot, 
one turnip, two leeks, and a bunch of parsley. 
All these vegetables must b3 thoroughly clean. 
Fill the saucepan half full with cold water (two 
quarts), or, still better, tlie liquor in which fresh 
meat has been boiled, add a saltspoonful of salt, 
and put the saucepan on the fire, and let it simmer 
gently, occasionally skimming it, for four or five 
hours, or even longer. Be careful it does not boil. 
Next, take the rabbit out of the salt and water. 
Cut it in half through the back, wash it carefully 
from any clots of blood that may appear, and place 
it in the saucepan to simmer gently for from 
half an hour to three quarters, according to the 
size. Add also to tlis stock, if possible, a slice 
of raw lean ham, about half a pound. When the 
rabbit is done, take it out carefully without 
stirring up the stock, and ^\-d.cQ it on a dish 
and carefully cut it up, taking all the meat from 
the bones. Place the meat on a clean plate, 
cover it over, and put it by for curried rabljit. 



AT SMALL COST. 43 

(See Rabbit, Curried.) Next, put back into the 
stock-pot or saucepan tlie rabbit-bones, and any 
gravy that may have run into the dish, and let 
them simmer for half an hour longer. 

Now take a cup — a breakfast cup is best — and 
ladle out the stock, Avhich we suppose has not 
boiled, into another saucepan. You must tirst move 
the saucepan to the side of the fire. Ladle out the 
stock by pressing the cup gently on to the meat and 
vegetables that are left, but be careful not to stir it 
up. If you have followed these directions you 
will get out probably about three pints of stock or 
broth ; this will make the soup. Now bring these 
three pints that have been ladled to a boil in 
another clean saucepan. Let it boil for two or 
three minutes, and then strain off the liquor 
through a fine sieve into a basin, and put it by in 
a cool place till the next day. 

In the meanwhile add a quart of water to the 
bones and vegetables left in the saucepan, bring it 
to a boil, and let it boil for an hour or two more ; 
then strain it off" through a sieve, and press the 
meat and vegetables in the sieve so as to drain as 
much as possible all the liquor away. Put this by 
to settle in a basin. 

The first basin in the morning will be found to 
contain three pints of clear stock — a jelly, or very 
nearly one ; remove any fat that may be on the top, 
also anv sediment that mav be at the bottom. This 



44 CHOICE DISHES 

sediment may be added to the thick stock ; make 
it hot, and add a little pepper and salt to taste, 
and, say, a good-sized teaspoonful of extract of 
meat — this will give it the required colour. Before 
adding the extract of meat see if it is suficiently 
bright ; if not, proceed to clear it according to the 
directions given in No. 18. The second basin will 
contain a quart of stock also probably a jelly, but 
not bright, still very strong and good. This can 
be used for making the curry sauce for the rabbit, 
for making any rich, thick, brown gravy, &c., as 
afterwards directed ; but as it will not be clear it 
will come under the heading of Stock No. 3. 

This clear stock is the basis of all clear soups. 
Macaroni soup is macaroni washed and boiled 
tender, and then put into Stock No. 1. The same 
with vermicelli soup. Spring soup is young 
vegetables boiled, and put into Stock No. 1. Sago 
soup is sago washed and boiled separately, and put 
into Stock No. 1, &c., &c. 

The two principal things to remember are — first, 
to skim the stock carefully, especially in the early 
part of simmering. Secondly, — don't let it boil 
while the meat is in it. 

There are various ways of completely spoiling 
this nice soup. I will give you a few of the ways 
most commonly pursued, so as to show you " How 
not to do it." You can make the soup lose all 
taste of the meat by adding ketchup. If this 



AT SMALL COST. 45 

is not sufficiently wicked, you can add a little 
Worcester sauce. I have known it done. 

Under tlie stupid impression that soup is not 
good unless it is dark, you can add a lot of burnt 
sugar, or boil burnt onion in it in large quantities. 
This will give the nice straw-coloured soup the 
appearance of beer. But the ways of "flavouring 
soups " are infinite. I will give my one receipt : — 

How to flavour soups — Don't ! 

Stock No. 2. — Quick and Cheap. 

A bright clear stock inferior to the above can be 
made by placing in a saucepan a few sticks of 
celery, one carrot, one turnip, a little parsley — i.e., 
two or three sprigs — one onion with four cloves 
stuck in it, and a couple of leeks. Let all simmer 
for' an hour in about a quart of water, and boil for 
ten minutes at the finish. Add a saltspoonful of 
salt. Strain off and dissolve an ounce of gelatine in 
this, and add a good teaspoonful or more of extract 
of meat. A little pepper and salt to taste. Thicken 
with a teaspoonful of corn-flour (see No. 11) to take 
off the thinness. A still cheaper way is to leave 
out the gelatine altogether, and have rather more 
corn-flour in it. Do not, however, make it thicker 
than thin cream. 

The vegetables are not ciU indispensible, but 
vou must have an onion or leeks. Celerv is next 



43 CHOICE DISHES 

ill importance. If you don't mind garlic, and want 
to give this soup a " foreign air," rub a piece of 
crust of bread, or the bottom of the saucepan, with 
a bead of garlic ; throw the bread in the soup 
when hot, and leave it in a few minutes, and then 
take it out. When this is done a little cayenne is 
an improvement. In straining off the vegetables, 
squeeze as much goodness as j^ou can out of them. 
Of course the chief goodness of this soup depends 
upon the amount of extract of meat you use. But 
do not put ill too much, so as to entirely over-ride 
the flavour of the vegetables. 

Stock No. 3. 

Act precisely as in making Stock No. 1, only, 
instead of putting in the knuckle of veal, use — say, 
three-pennyworth of bones — fresh ones from the 
butcher's — or any bones you may have by you — 
such as a leg-of-mutton bone, or a sirloin-of-beef 
bone. Add water, or, what is of course far better, 
the liquor in which fresh meat has been boiled — 
such as a leg of mutton, or, better still, a silverside 
or aitchl^one of beef. Indeed, the liquor of these 
last two joints will make good soup for No. 1 
without knuckle of veal, or for No. 3 without 
bones. Use the same vegetables. Simmer for 
some time at starting, but afterwards you may let 
it boil, then strain off carefully; and sometimes 



AT SMALL COST. 47 

it is as well to put a pint or so of water with 
what is left in the sieve back into the saucepan 
to boil for half an hour, so as to get out all the 
goodness. 

When you mak^ this stock — and sometimes it 
will have to be made in very small quantities, as 
with one leg-of-mutton bone — your own common 
sense must tell you how to decrease the vegetables 
in proportion, perhaps leaving some out altogether. 
Try and think of all you can to help. Have what 
people call "a look round." I will think of a few 
possible things for you to come across. The 
remains of the gi'avy from the mutton the first 
day it was cooked, in a basin or cup in the larder, 
with hard pieces of thin white fat on the top. Just 
the thing to help : put it in the stock ; all except 
the gi'ease. At the bottom of a basin containing 
dripping, on lifting the dripping with the help of a 
knife, you may find a tablespoonful or more of 
jelly. This will help. The remains of a carcase of 
an old fowl with bare ribs — like the picture of a 
dead camel in the desert — or perhaps there is a 
piece of cold boiled bacon. See if there is a bone 
with a little lean clinging to it that can be 
exti;acted; any gravy left on a dish — in fact, liear 
in mind the old saying, " Every little helps." 

This stock will very likely be greasy. This 
will a good deal depend upon the state of the 
bones originally. But always cut off what fat 



48 CHOICE DISHES 

you can, and take away the marrow if there is 
any. This marrow will help to make a little 
pudding, and the fat can be " run down " into 
dripping. 

It is always best to make stock the day before it 
is wanted. If you want a little to go on with 
directly, after you have strained it off, if it is 
greasy, put it in a saucepan to simmer, or rather 
to nearly boil, so as to throw up occasional bubbles ; 
then skim the top off freely into a basin, and go on 
skimming off the top, stock and grease together, till 
there is only enough left in the saucepan for what 
you want. This will be free from grease. Let the 
remainder get cold, and take the fat off it when it is 
cold. Recollect, however, even then it may still be 
greasy, as often fat is held in a sort of dissolved 
state in the stock ; this fat can be got rid of as we 
will show you in our next — Stock No. 4, or Greasy 
Stock. Extract of meat must always be added, for 
making coloured soups, to this stock — a good tea- 
spoonful to a quart. 

This stock we have been describing — No. 3 — is 
the basis of any thick soup or gravies. It may be 
coloured and thickened, and added to in a variety 
of ways as directed hereafter. 

Always try and have a little by you. Put by 
odds and ends, such as bones of any description, 
especially poultry bones, and rabbit bones. Cut off 
bits — " flap " — of joints when raw. Pieces you 



AT SMALL COST. 49 

know will be left. In fact, always have an eye 
to your " .stock-pot," never mind how small it may 
be. 

No. 4, OR Greasy Stock. 

By grea.sy stock I mean the liquor that has 
boiled — say, a leg of fat pork, or a piece of bacon, 
or a pig's head. This stock, although it is so 
greasy, is just what is wanted for making pea-soup 
and lentil-soup, and also for boiling haricot beans, 
a very cheap, nice, nourishing form of food 
too much neglected in this country. It will also 
make capital potato-soup out of cold potatoes, also 
rice-soup, cabbage-soup, &c. These will be described 
under their difierent headings ; but recollect that 
to make the stock to the best advantage, you must 
boil such vegetables as you decide to use with the 
bacon or pork, as by doing so you not only get a 
better stock, but you greatly improve the flavour 
of the meat. 

When stock is very greasy, you must let it boil 
gently by the side of the fire, and now and then 
throw in a little cold water. This will first stop 
the boiling, and then it will "throw up its fat," 
which will collect on the top, and can be taken off 
in a film that will hang from the spoon. Let it 
boil away a little, and then throw in a little more 
cold water, and go on taking off* the fat from time 
to time. 
E 



50 CHOICE DISHES 

You must let it boil away, or the cold water will 
make it too weak. When you have thickened 
anything with brown thickening (see No. 12) you 
nnist get rid of the grease and butter this way. 
You need not stand and watch it, but see to it 
every now and then. Or, perhaps still better, 
bring the greasy stock to a boil, and take the 
saucepan off the fire. In four or five minutes it 
will be covered with a film of grease that can be 
be lifted with two forks, it clings so together, but a 
spoon and fork do the w^ork better. Take off this 
film, and put the saucepan on the fire, and make 
it boil again ; then take it oflT, and in another few 
minutes another film wdll have risen, and so on — 
for a dozen times in some cases. 

This getting rid of grease, or rather knowing 
how to get rid of grease, is very important, as 
it saves us sometimes throwing away stock that 
can be turned to account. The soul of economy in 
cooking is not merely not buying expensive things, 
but also never throwing anything away. 

The stock or liquor in which salt pork and salt 
beef has been boiled can be used in making pea- 
soup, &c., in moderation, if not too salt. It can be 
added to soup that has had no salt in it till the 
soup is sufficiently salted, but you must be careful, 
or you may sometimes waste the whole soup by 
finding it too salt to eat. This is one great draw- 
back to salt meat, and also a reason why salt meat 



AT SMALL COST. ol 

should be first soaked in cold water. The same 
with pickled pork, tongues, etc. 

No. 5. — Fish Stock. 

Never throw away the water in which fish has 
been boiled : it is valuable for making fish sauce, 
and also soup maigre. Therefore, in boiling fish, 
when the stock is or may be wanted, be careful about 
not putting in too much salt. Salt in quantity is 
not essential for boiling fish, and some fish will 
leave the liquor in which it was boiled a hard jelly 
when it is cold. This, of course, contains nourish- 
ment. 

For reducing stock, see No. 2G. 

No. ll.—To Thicken. 
The expression is often met with in cookery 
books " Thicken with a little butter and flour," or 
" Thicken with a little arrowroot ; " but this 
expression requires some little explanation for 
novices. Besides, there is a great art in thicken- 
ing, and many nice dishes have been spoilt owing 
to cooks being ignorant of tlxe proper method. 
The commonest ways of thickening are with flour, 
corn-flour or arrowroot, butter and flour, and eggs. 
Perha})s the most useful method of thickening is 
with butter and flour mixed. But I must here 
impress on you the importance of tirst, so to speak, 



52 CHOICE DISHES 

" cooking " this butter and flour. Suppose you 
have some thick soup, say, mock-turtle. If you 
thicken this with butter and flour plain, the 
soup will have a gruelly taste and a pale brown 
colour. If you thicken with butter and flour 
cooked — i.e., with brown thickening — which does 
not cost one farthing more, you have a rich brown 
soup worthy of the Freemason's Tavern. Indeed, the 
difierence between good mock-turtle soup and poor 
gruelly mess is often simply, that one is thickened 
with butter and flour, and the other with bro\vn 
thickening, or what the French call " brown roux " : 
the cost of this being only a few minutes' trouble. 
I will describe the diflerent ways of thickening 
under their various headings. 

No. 12.— Brown and White Thickening. 

Suppose you want to thicken some good stock — 
say No. 3— to make some brown gravy. Take 
a tin, and place in it equal weights of butter 
and flour, or, perhaps, rather more of the latter. 
Put it in the oven, and, when the butter has 
melted, stir the flour well in, and mix it thoroughly 
together with a spoon. Let it bake till it gets a 
little brown on the top, then stir again, and con- 
tinue baking and stirring till the mixture is of a 
nice, rather light-coloured, chocolate colour. This 
is brown thickening. 



AT SMALL COST. 53 

Then take a spoonful of this, and put it in the 
gravy, which should be boiling. Stir it up, and 
let it dissolve. This will thicken the gravy. Add 
gradually, so as not to get the gravy too thick. 

The common mistake of cooks with thick soups 
and gravies is that they make them too thick. 
Throughout this book we shall use the expressions 
" as thick as milk,' " as thick as cream," " as thick 
as double-cream." I am speaking of good country 
milk, not London milk. Gravy — i.e., ordinary 
brown gravy for a roast fowl or roast turkey — 
should look the colour of chocolate, and be barely 
much thicker than milk — certainly not so thick as 
cream. The difference in the Jtavour of gravy 
thickened with brown thickening and plain flour 
and butter is the same difference as the crust of a 
fruit-pie before it is baked and afterwards — one 
nauseous, the other delicious. In fact, in both cases 
it is the question of butter and flour cooked in the 
one case and not in the other. 

Whenever you use hrovni thickening, you must 
skim the gravy. (See Stock No. 4, or Greasy Stock.) 

White thickening is butter and flour baked, but 
taken out of the oven before it has turned colour. 
White thickening is used for all kinds of white 
soups and white sauces. These need not be 
skimmed, as the butter need not be removed. 

Brown thickening will keep good for months; 
and, if you are in the habit of having thick soups 



54 CHOICE DISHES 

and gravies often, it is a great saving of time and 
trouble to make it in some large quantity. When 
done, it can be j^ut by in, say, some empty marma- 
lade pots, and then you will have it by you at any 
moment, as it is very inconvenient constantly going 
to the oven. If necessary, you can make some 
small quantity in a frying-pan, but you must take 
care it does not burn ; and, besides, you will 
have to keep scraping the bottom constantly. 
Therefore the frying-pan must be very clean. 

The best method to make brown thickening to 
keep is to get an enamelled saucepan or stewjian (an 
enamelled one is best), and put in it, say, half a 
pound of butter to clarify : i.e., dissolve the 
butter till it is like oil; skim off the white scum, 
and pour the oiled butter into a clean basin, all 
except the milky dregs at the bottom. This is 
now clarified butter. Next, take rather more than 
half a pound of flour, thoroughly dried and care- 
fully sifted. It is best to dry it in front of the 
fire on an old newspaper. Add the flour to the 
butter, which must be poured back into the clean 
saucepan or stewpan, and stand the stewpan on 
the fire, stirring the flour and butter to prevent 
its burning. A wooden spoon is best. You will 
want a tolerable amount of heat. Have ready on 
a plate a large slice of onion. 

Keep stirring the mixture till the whole has 
turned a nice bright fawn colour. As soon as it 



AT SMALL COST. 65 

begins to change colour, you must stir, if possible, 
more industriously than ever. When it is the 
colour we say, take the stewpan off the fire, and 
keep stirring for a minute, and then throw in the 
slice of onion, which will help to check the heat, 
besides imparting a nice flavour. You will find 
that the butter and flour will go on cooking for some 
time after you have taken the saucepan or stew- 
pan off the fire. Go on stirring till the mixture 
ceases to "frizzle," Take out the slice of onion, 
and put the brown thickening, in a hot state, 
into a jar. It will keep good for months, and, 
when cold, will cut and look like chocolate. If 
possible, always have some in the house. A 
spoonful of this, with a little stock No. 3, will 
make a rich brown gi*avy in two or three minutes. 

Recollect always that the sauce will never get 
thicker till it has boiled. 

It is cheaper to make brown thickening in large 
quantities than to thicken with a little butter and 
flour, made just when it is wanted. Cooks rarely 
guess the exxict quantity, but, to make sure, make 
too much, use what they want, and alas ! too often 
throw the rest away. 

No. 13.— To Thicken with Flour, Corn-flour, &c. 

In thickening anything with flour, corn-flour, 
arrowroot, kc, the chief point to be considered is, 



56 CHOICE DISHES 

how to avoid getting the gravy, or whatever is 
thickened, lumpy. Suppose we are going to 
thicken, say, gravy. Proceed as follows. First 
have the gravy in a saucepan boiling gently. Next 
take a cup, and put in the cup as nearly as you can 
guess the amount of flour, or corn-flour, &c., that 
you want ; mix it up with a little cold water, and 
make it smooth with a spoon. Then add it, one 
spoonful at a time, to the gravy, and stir the gravy 
quickly as you put it in. Let the gravy go 
on boiling gently, and you will see when it is 
thick enough. Don't waste the flour, tfcc. ; it 
is very easy to mix a little fresh if you have not 
enough. 

If you were to throw the flour or corn-flour in 
raw, you would get it all lumpy. 

If by chance you have got gravy or soup lumpy, 
pour it through a sieve and rub the lumps through. 

No. 14.— To Thicken with Eggs. 

When we thicken anything with eggs, what we 
must chiefly tliink about is to avoid getting the 
mixture *' curdled." 1st. Anything that has to 
be thickened with eggs will curdle if it boils. 
2nd. Eggs won't thicken anything at all till the 
mixture nearly boils ; consequently we must be 
careful. 

Custard is a good illustration, as custard is 



AT SMALL COST. 57 

simply sweetened milk thickened with eggs. Take 
half a pint of milk, boil it in a small saucepan, and 
pour it into a jug. Put a large saucepan on the 
lire, half full of boiling water. Break a couple of 
eggs, yblks and whites, into a basin, and beat them 
up with a fork, adding the hot milk (which should 
be first sweetened), at first a teaspoonful at a 
time, and keep beating up the eggs till they are 
thoroughly mixed, and will allow a fork to pass 
through them like water, i.e., with nothing hang- 
ing from the prongs. Add the hot milk and stir 
up ; then pour it all back into the jug. 

Place the jug in the saucepan of boiling 
water, and keep stirring till the custard gets 
thick, then take out the jug and keep stirring till 
the custard is lukewarm. 



No. 15.— To Break Eggs. 

In breaking eggs care should be taken not to 
break the yolk, as in most cases eggs are spoilt 
when the yolk is broken ; as, for instance, poached 
eggs, fried eggs, &c. First, recollect eggs should 
always be broken separately into a vessel, and 
not dropped one on to another, as one bad one 
would then spoil the lot. To l)rt nk an egg, take 
a basin, and hold the egg in one hand and the 
basin with the other ; give the egg a little smart 
tap in the middle on the edge of the basin. Then 



58 CHOICE DISHES 

take the egg in your two hands, put it crack 
downwards, holding it as low as you can in the 
basin, and gently open it upwards, like a hinge. 
Avoid letting the contents drop any distance. 
The two half eggshells should be two cups'nearly 
the same size. 

In breaking an egg^ when you want to separate 
the yolks from the whites, proceed as before ; but 
instead of holding the egg over the basin crack 
doAvnwards, hold it sideways, with the big end 
downwards. Now open the egg like a hinge, and a 
quantity of white will run over into the basin, but 
the yolk and some of the white will keep in the 
hollow cup or eggshell. Then pass the yolk from 
one shell into the other very gently, and in doing 
this try and drop as much of the white as you 
can. You will find this easy, and very soon you 
will have the yolk quite free from the Avliite. 



No. 16.— To Chop Suet. 

In chopping suet, first try and get Jiard beef suet. 
There is a great deal of difference between suet and 
fat, although suet is fat. Get a clean, dry 
chopping-board, and a fairly sharp knife or 
chopper. Sprinkle a little flour over the suet, to 
prevent the suet clinging or sticking to the knife 
or chopper. When you have chopped the suet 
sufficiently, put it in a basin and shake the basin a 



AT SMALL COST. 59 

little. This will bring the big lumps to the top ; 
take them off and chop a little more. Remove 
carefully all the skin first. 

In chopping lemon-peel for sweets, adding a 
little powdered sugar is a great saving of 
time. In chopping lemon-peel for stuffing, salt 
should be used. 

In chopping parsley, be sure the parsley is 
thoroughly dry, or else it will cling to the knife 
and ffive a lot of trouble. 



&' 



No. 17.— To Stuff. 

To stuff means to place stuffing or forcemeat 
inside a joint, bird, or fish. The gi^eat art of 
stuffing consists in — first, getting in plenty of stuffing 
without disfiguring the shape ; secondly, in taking 
proper precautions against the stuffing coming out 
during the process of cooking. In stuffing birds it 
is nearly always advisable to sew up the opening 
with a needle and thread. In ducks, geese, hares, 
rabbits, the stuffing is put inside where the entrails 
were taken out. Turkeys and fowls are stuffed in 
the crop, an opening in the neck. A leg of pork is 
stuffed by raising the skin in the knuckle-end, 
getting as much stuffing between the skin and meat 
as possible, and then fastening the skin on securely 
with string. When anything boned, such as half a 
leg of mutton, or a loin of mutton, or breast of 



60 CHOICE DISHES 

veal, has to be stuffed, the stuffing should be placed 
where the bone was. A breast of veal, as well as 
a loin of mutton, when stuffed should be rolled and 
tied up. Fish is sometimes stuffed where it has 
been cut open. By far the best way of stuffing 
lish is to bone the fish (see No. 22) and then place 
the stuffing where the bone was. 



No. 18. — To clear Soups, Jellies, &c. 

When you have stock such as Stock No. 1 (See 
Stock) or jelly made from gelatine, not quite bright, 
they can always be made so by means of one or two 
Avhites of egg. Clearing stock, however, I think 
takes away somewhat from its goodness. Suppose 
you have, say, three pints of stock, or a quart of 
jelly, which you wish to make very bright. Take 
a couple of eggs and separate the yolks from the 
whites (See No. 15) as the yolks had better be 
reserved for making a little custard or a pudding. 
Beat up the two whites and the shells with a little 
cold water very briskly with a fork, or, better still, 
a whisk. Have the stock or jelly on the fire hot, 
but not boiling, pour in the whisked whites and 
water and broken-up shells, and stir the whole up, and 
continue to stir till the whole boils. Let it boil gently 
for a quarter of an hour, and then strain it off" 
through a flannel bag, called a jelly bag. After 
you have poured a little through the bag, take up 



AT SMALL COST. 61 

what lias gone through and pour it into the bag 
again. It will soon run quite bright ; when it runs 
bright let it all run through. 

This flannel bag should be made of new flannel 
that has been Avell scalded ; it should be kept very 
clean, and washed thoroughly in hot water, but no 
soap or soda should ever be used in cleaning it. 

In clearing first-class stock or soups, some cooks 
add gravy beef, and even the white meat of fowls 
that has been sent through a sausage-machine, but 
this is very extravagant. 

In cold weather the operation of running it 
through the bag had better be done in a hot place, 
as, when the jelly begins to set it won't run through 
at all. 

No. 19.— To Colour. 

Sometimes you will want to colour gravy, &c., and 
yet not use brown thickening ; for instance, in hash, 
where brown thickening would be unsuitable for 
the gravy. You should thicken this gravy with a 
little corn-flour, and you should try and get a nice 
rich colour. To add extract of meat in sufiicient 
quantity would be extravagant ; therefore, use what 
the French call Caramel, which is burnt sugar and 
water. The best way is to have a little always 
ready in a bottle. Take some brown sugar, and 
melt it in a frying-pan till it is quite dissolved and 
looks like brown paint, then add enough water so 



62 CHOICE DISHES 

as to make it into a sort of syrup. Put this by in a 
bottle for use. Don't make anything too dark, so 
be careful in usino^ burnt sugar not to overdo it. 
You should not be able to taste the sugar. 

Sweets are coloured pink and red with cochineal ; 
a sixpenny bottle of cochineal will last a very long 
time, as a little goes a long way. Cochineal may 
be used for making a corn-flour pudding look pink ; 
it will colour sweet sauce pink ; it will also make 
jelly a beautiful colour; and it helps to make 
rhubarb when young a nice colour; also stewed 
pears, ttc. Don't use cochineal for lobster sauce or 
shrimp patties ; the red coral of the lobster should 
be used for this. 

To colour anything green, such as green pea-soup, 
by far the best thing is spinach-juice. Parsley- 
juice is sometimes used, but it is often bitter. Still, 
where there is a large garden with plenty, it may 
be tried; very little water should be added and 
great pressure used. A lemon-squeezer will be 
found useful in extracting the juice. Turmeric may 
be used sparingly if a yellow colour is wanted, or 
saffron is harmless. 



No. 20.— Bread Crumbs. To E^g-and- 
Bread-Crumb. 

The best way to make bread crumbs is to rub 
itale bread through a wire sieve, as this ensures 









AT 


SMALL 


COST. 




63 


the 


crumbs 


being 


free 


from 


occasional 


large 


ones. 


A ^ 


rt'ire 


sieve is 


i a 


necessity, 


where 



economy is considered,' or good cooking de- 
sired. You cannot make pea- soup properly with- 
out one. 

When you are told to egg-and-bread-crumb any- 
thing, for instance, a veal cutlet or a sole, it means 
you are to dip it in a raw egg well beaten up, and 
then sprinkle it with as many bread crumbs as wdll 
stick to it. 

Take, say a sole or cutlet, the way to egg-and- 
bread-crumb it is as follows : — Make plenty of 
bread crumbs, as we have said, and put them on a 
dish or plate ; next take an egg and beat it 
thoroughly, so that it runs through the prongs of a 
silver fork like water — that is, it does not hang. 
If you add a teaspoonful — no more — of boiling 
water it very much helps you to beat the egg thin. 
Next dry the sole or cutlet and flour it, so as to get 
it perfectly dry. The object of the flour is the same 
as in washing a baby. You dry it and powder 
it, the powxler simply ensuring its being dry, then 
dip the sole or cutlet in the beaten-up egg, and let 
the egg drain off it for a few seconds by holding it 
up by the end ; throw the sole or cutlet lightly on 
the bread crumbs and sprinkle some more on the 
top ; let there be plenty, but don't pat it. Leave 
the sole or cutlet resting on the bread crumbs till 
you dip it into the smoking hot fat. It is advis- 



64 CHOICE DISHES 

able to egg-and-bread-crumb anything some time 
before it is fried. The drier the cruml:)s the 
better if a ojood colour is wanted. 



No. 21.~To Rub Through a Wire Sieve. 

This is a most important operation in cooking : 
you cannot get a puree without it, or pea-soup, or 
curry. It is a most economical process. A wire 
sieve — a small one — can be bous^ht for one shillinor 
and fourpence, and will very soon more than repay 
its cost. 

Suppose we have some pea-soup or curry to rub 
through, containing peas, or celery boiled tender, 
carrots, fried onions, ttc. Get a l^asin rather bigger 
round than the sieve, take a wooden spoon, and 
keep i^ressing and scraping sideways. Of course 
the liquid part will all run through directly, but a 
spoonful of the liquid should occasionally be taken 
out of the basin for the purpose of moistening 
what is left in the sieve. Every now and then 
you should scrape the bottom of the sieve on the 
lower side into the basin, as what is sent through 
sticks and clings there. This Avill help to send it 
through quicker. Don't give up, but, as a rule, 
try to send all through. Of course, sometimes 
stringy parts won't go through, but the process 
requires patience, good temper, and determina- 
tion. 



AT SMALL COST. 65 

Wire sieves should be washed thoroughly with a 
brush, well rinsed with very hot water at the 
finish, and put by dry. The heat from the water 
will make the wire hot, which helps to dry it 
more quickly. All sieves (ordinary ones) should be 
dried before the fire after being washed. 



No. 22.— To Bone. 

It is more economical to bone a joint before it is 
cooked, as the bones help to make stock. One of 
the most wasteful joints is an ordinary loin of 
mutton, where the people who eat it are rather 
dainty. Very often tlie whole of the end of the 
chop is left on the plate, and also the bone is only 
half picked. 

In boning any joint — that is, taking out the bone 
in a raw state — of course it is important to get the 
bone out as bare as possible. The great secret in 
boning is to keep the knife constantly against the 
bone. Ribs of beef are always best boned and 
rolled, unless you can afford a very large joint 
indeed. The butcher will generally bone a joint 
for you. To watch him do it is worth more 
by way of a lesson than twenty pages of any 
book. Boning a fowl or turkey without break- 
ing the skin is an artistic operation, the descrip- 
tion of which would be unsuited for the present 
work. 



CHOICE DISHES 



No. 23.— To Pickle. 



To pickle anything is to soak it in some fluid 
for the purpose of preserving it, or of imparting 
additional flavour. Pickle for meat is usually 
composed of water, in which is dissolved common 
salt, sugar, and saltpetre, and sometimes bay- 
salt. The effect of saltpetre on meat is to give it a 
red colour, and make it liard. Tongues are always 
best pickled. The great drawback to pickled or 
salt beef is, that the liquor in which it is boiled 
has nearly all to be thrown away. (See Beef 
Salt, and Pork Pickled.) 

Vegetables and fruit are pickled in vinegar. Fruit 
pickled in vinegar is very popular abroad, especially 
in Germany, but rarely eaten in England. Vege- 
tables pickled in vinegar, or what is generally 
known as pickles, are now to be bought cheaper — 
taking trouble into account — than they can be 
made at home, and the objections against bought 
pickles which held good years ago now cease to exist. 

Sometimes a pickle is made of wine, spices, 
garlic, ttc. It is then generally called by its 
French name of marinade. 



No. 24.— To Boil in a Cloth. 

A large number of puddings are boiled in a 
cloth. The first care should be to see that the 



AT SMALL C03T. 67 

cloth is quite clean, and it is generally best to 
throw it into scalding hot water for a minute, 
and afterwards to wring it out. For an ordinary 
pudding — say, suet (see Suet-Pudding) — suppose 
the pudding mixture is ready in a basin, lay the 
cloth out, and flour it well — ie., every part of it 
that is likely to come into contact with the 
pudding ; shape the pudding into a ball, and place 
it in the middle of the cloth ; bring the ends up 
together, and tie the cloth round with a piece of 
string very tight. This does not mean that you, so 
to speak, wrap up the pudding very tight ; but, on 
the contrary, you should allow room for the 
pudding to swell ; i. e., you tie the string round the 
cloth about an inch above the pudding. Always 
plunge the pudding, when tied up, into boiling 
water, and keep the water boiling. A suet- 
pudding for five or six persons will take about 
two hours or two and a half hours to boil. 
When you take it out, put the pudding on 
a dish or plate, and let it stand and drain for a 
minute before you untie the string and take out 
the pudding. 

When the pudding is a rich one (such as a 
Christmas pudding), you should butter the cloth 
before you flour it. It is also best, on these great 
occasions, to have a new cloth that has been 
scalded several times. It is perhaps needless to 
state that there must be no holes in the cloth. 



Q8 CHOICE DISHES 

In boiling a pudding in a basin, wrapped np in 
a cloth, the basin should have a rim. The cloth 
should be stretched over the top of the basin, then 
tied round the rim, and the cloth brought up and 
tied again. 



No. 25.— To Use Garlic. 

I know there is with many persons a strong 
prejudice against garlic. I believe this to be 
owing to the fact that the majority of English 
cooks don't know how to use it. It keeps good a 
long time if kept in a dry place. It imparts, to 
my thinking, a most delicious flavour if used 
properly, and is very economical, as a little goes a 
long way ; one pennyworth will last for a month. 
I will give you one or two instances. First, 
remember that as a rule garlic should not be cut or 
chopped, but its flavour should simply be im- 
parted by rubbing. 

Suppose you have a dish of minced beef, mutton, 
or veal : before ^ou cut up and chop the meat take 
a bead of garlic — a lump splits up into beads — cut 
a little off" the end first, and simply rub the chop- 
ping-board a little with the garlic. 

This is quite sufiicient to give a rich flavour to 
the mince. 

Again, suppose you have a lettuce for a salad : 
first get the lettuce quite dry ; then take a salad 



AT SMALL COST. 69 

bowl and rub the bottom of the bowl with a bead 
of garlic. Then take a saltsjDOonfiil of salt and half 
a one of 2)epper, and mix it up with two table- 
spoonfuls of good oil. Toss the lettuce lightly 
together with this for two or three minutes, then 
add half a tablespoonful of vinegar. The garlic 
will be found to have given the salad a most 
delicious flavour. 

Garlic is often a great help in making common 
materials very savoury. 



No. 26.— To Reduce Stock. 

To reduce stock is to make it smaller in quantity, 
but stronger, by boiling and letting the steam 
escape. This is a process often required, especially 
in the preparation of white soups, an economical 
form of nourishment too much neglected. In 
making No. 3 Stock (see Stock) I stated that 
extract of meat should be added to the stock 
for all coloured soup. For white soups we 
don't want any colour, and the extract of meat 
would spoil the appearance of the soup. Take 
that admirable soup for childi-en, vegetable marrow 
soup ; the cost of the %'egetable marrow, say, one 
penny ; one quart of milk, fivepence, and a quart of 
No. 3 Stock, made from bones, say, twopence. 

Boil the vegetable marrow, after peeling and 
taking out the pips, in the stock. When it is 



70 CHOICE DISHES 

tender, take out the vegetable marrow and rub it 
through a wire sieve into a basin. Now, boil away 
the stock in which the vegetable marrow has boiled 
till the quart has been reduced to half a pint. 
You must let it boil freely without any lid on the 
saucepan. When it is reduced to this quantity, 
add it to a quart of milk that has been boiled 
separately. Add the pulp of the vegetable marrow, 
and thicken the whole, if necessary, to the con- 
sistency of cream, with a little white thickening. 
(See No. 12.) Fried bread or toast may be served 
with this soup plentifully. It is an admirable 
beginning to a dinner for children, who often eat 
more meat than is good for them. In this soup 
the only flavouring should be pepper and salt, with 
the exception, perhaps, of boiling a bay-leaf in the 
milk. 

No. 27.— To Beat Butter to a Cream. 

In making cakes and the better class of puddings 
it IS often desirable to beat the butter to a cream 
before using it. For this purpose place the butter 
— say, half a pound — in a tolerably strong basin, 
and beat it with a fork or spoon — a wooden fork or 
spoon is best. After beating and smoothing it 
against the sides of the basin, and knocking it 
about, the butter gradually loses its consistency 
and comes back into a creamy state, but thicker 
than cream itself. 



AT SMALL COST. 71 

No. 28.— To Truss. 
Trussing is the process of getting birds (game 
and poultry) into the proper position for cooking. 
For instance, fowls are trussed one way for 
roasting and another way for boiling. Different 
birds are trussed in different ways ; the method 
will be described under their various headings. 

No 29. — Hints on Ornamenting. 

It is a very great mistake to think if a dish 
looks very pretty that therefore it is necessarily 
an expensive one. I fear few English cooks under- 
stand sufficiently the importance of appearances. 
For instance : fried bacon, clear and crisp, in a 
clean hot dish, does not cost more than dirty- 
looking fried bacon in a dish with the fat in 
it half-cold, with black pieces in it, while the 
edge of the dish show^s dirty, greasy thumb- 
marks. 

Greens are no cheaper when served in green water 
with a nasty smell, with perhaps one or two 
caterpillars. 

Toast — a nice bro^vll, all over alike — is no dearer 
than toast that consists of a piece of bread wdth a 
black patch in the middle, and white edges. 

I fear that to teach some persons devoid of taste 
how to make dishes look nice and pretty, would be 



1^ CHOICE DISHES 

as hopeless as to talk of music to one who can- 
not distinguish the difference between "God Save 
the Queen" and an Irish jig. Yet there are 
many — let us hope the majority — who have an 
eye for colour, Arc, to whom hints may be valu- 
able. 

First, Soups. — If the soup be clear, if you have 
vegetables in it, try and get a few that will make a 
pretty contrast in way of colour — such as little 
squares of red carrot, white turnip, and a few 
green peas. Where there is a garden this is easily 
done. Again, in cutting the carrot reserve the 
bright red edge to go in the soup, the pale yellow 
inside will do for the stock. 

In the case of thick soups, try and obtain a rich 
dark brown. For this, brown thickening is essential. 
Also take care the grease is all removed, and if 
you have used black pepper for the soup to flavour 
it, take care in pouring off the soup you don't pour 
in the little black dregs at the bottom, which will 
settle in the soup plates like grit. In the case of 
white soups, remember the whiter the better, and 
that when we cannot afford cream we must have more 
milk, and that the stock must be reduced, the milk 
boiled separately, in order to get a nice white 
colour. So again with green-pea soup. Let it he 
green. A little trouble and spinach is all that is 
required. 

Next, with regard to fish. Fried fish should be 



AT SMALL COST. 73 

ornamented witli fried parsley. If you have the 
fat properly managed — that is, deep and hot — fried 
parsley only takes a few seconds to cook, but after 
frying should be placed for a minute in the oven 
to drain and get crisp. Place a few pieces round 




A, the dish ; b, a sheet of white paper folded into foiir. The 
dotted line, the mark made by pressing the paper down into 
the inner rim of the dish ; c, the paper cnt plain ; d, with a 
crimped border; e, the ci;t paper opened flat, and put into a 
dish ; a, for the fish. 



the fish on the paper in the dish in which they 
are placed. Thick white cartridge paper is best, 
and can be cut to fit. the dish by folding the 
paper into four, placing the centre of the paper 
when open — i.e., the point when folded — in the 
centre of the dish ; then press round the inner 
rim of the dish so as to mark the paper the 
right size. Next : cut this neatly round without 
unfolding the paper; then cut a little crimped 
edge. When you open the paper, each quarter 



74 



CHOICE DISHES 



must be exactly the same size, as they were all cut 
at the same time. 

A slice of lemon ^yill make a pretty garnish for 
fish. Cut a thin slice of lemon, and cut it in half ; 
then cut each half through the middle of the 
yellow rim, and open tlie two pieces, which will "be 
held together by the white piece in the centre. 




Cut Lemox. 

A, a thin slice of lemon ; b, half a slice ; c, the half slice cut 
through the dotted line, and opened for garnishing fish, 
jellies, &c. 

Cat lemon is also a nice ornament for boiled fish. 
Suppose the boiled fish is a flat one, such as a sole 
boiled whole, or a plaice, or brill, or turbot ; place 
the fish, with the white side uppermost, on a white 
napkin — folded round a fish-drainer is best — on a 
good-sized dish. 

Have ready a little dry chojoped parsley. Take 
a knife, and take a little parsley up on the end of 
the blade, and then knock the blade gently, so as 
to let the chopped parsley fall from a little height. 
Next, if possible, have a little red lobster coral, 



AT SMALL COST. ,i) 

and act the same with it. The white hsh will now 
be sprinkled over with little red and green specks. 
Cut lemon and fresh green parsley (not fried) may 
be placed alternately round. A small red crayfish 
placed in each corner makes a very handsome 
garnish, but these are not always easily to be 
obtained. 

If you have no red lobster coral, which is often 
the case, m-ike a few bread crumbs, which can be 
done in a second by rubbing a piece of stale bread 
on the wire sieve. A saltspoonful will be plenty. 

Throw them on a plate or saucer with a few 
drops of cochineal, and shake them in the saucer. 
This will turn the bread crumbs a bright red 
directly. These do as well as coral, and a bottle 
of cochineal (sixpence) with care will last a year. 
Then take these red crumbs up on a knife, and flip 
it as before. 

The fish will generally look best if you let the 
crumbs and chopped parsley fall naturally. 

Another method of getting " little red specks " 
for garnishing, is to cut up a red chili. You will 
generally find one or two in the bottle of pickles, 
or you can buy them pickled by themselves. 
Persons who are fond of hot curries, ttc, would do 
well to have a bottle of chilies in the house. 
When cut up they are a great improvement to 
hash — especially for those who like *' lieat.'^ 

Suppose we have that cheap and nice dish, boiled 



76 CHOICE DISHES 

sole filleted. We have tlie little white fillets of 
sole rolled up, standing in a dish, say, a vegetable 
dish, and the thick white sauce, made from thicken- 
ing the water in which we boiled the bones and fins. 
(See Sole.) 

Suppose we ornament this dish as follows : First. 
As before, chop half a saltspoonful of parsley and 
sprinkle with a knife over the fish and sauce. If 
the sauce is properly thick the parsley will rest on 
it ; next, have ready the size of, say, a threepenny- 
piece and about as thick, little pieces of green pickled 
gherkins ; also the same size round of the skin of a 
chili, or capsicum, and the outside skin of a pickled 
walnut ; place a little piece on the top of each fillet. 
Alternately red, green, and black. This is really a 
very pretty dish, and the cost of ornamenting 
almost nil. 

The skins of red and green capsicums are also 
very useful for garnishing. 

In serving little entrees, or hash, avoid a large 
flat dish, but have a smaller and deeper one. 
Hash looks better, and keeps hot longer, in a 
vegetable dish than on an ordinary flat dish. 
Pieces of nicely-fried bread are better than toast. 
Sometimes a small metal arrow is run into a piece 
of fried bread: in the middle. These metal-plated 
arrows are not dear. 

In sending up joints to table, do what you can to 
make them attractive. Suppose it is a boiled leg oi 



AT SMALL COST. 77 

mutton with young turnips and carrots : arrange 
the turnips and carrots around the joint alternately. 
You can, if you like, cut them into shapes before 
boiling. Brussels sprouts will make it look still 
better : alternate green, red, and white. 

The cuttings can be boiled and mashed and served 
up in the same dish in red and white stripes. 

Don't swim the dish with liquor or gravy, but 
send very little at first, and then serve some more 
boiling hot in a jug to be poured over the meat 
for the second help. 

It is a great point to some to have a fresh plate for 
this second help. Suppose your husband comes 
home fagged and tired from a hard day's work, 
mentally and bodily, in the City : hot sale-rooms 
or dusty Exchange. He is weary, empty, but not 
hungry. I fear some women do not grasp the awful 
weariness produced by brain work. A small help 
at starting, and a second help as hot as the first, 
thanks to the second edition of gravy, put tempt- 
ingly on a clean hot plate, and a fresh knife and 
fork. Why not? the cost is perhaps two minutes' 
extra trouble to an idle kitchen-maid. Your 
husband's health and comfort ought to be worth 
more than this ; and yet in how many houses 
is it done 1 The reason is, " custom : " you don't 
think of it. But then they do think of it at his club. 

Roast veal should have a rich mahogany colour 
outside, and glaze €an be easily made with tlio 



78 CHOICE DISHES 

help of a little soy, which will make a wonderful 
alteration in the appearance of the dish. 

The same applies to roast fowls or pheasants, 
especially cold. A little glaze, cost one penny, will 
make all the difference in appearance between a high- 
class dish and a common one. Dishes such as cold 
veal or cold fowl glazed require parsley. Veal may 
also have cut lemon. 

Scraped horse-radish is a great improvement to 
a piece of roast beef or rump steak. 

In ornamenting sweets, the two most useful things 
I know are preserved cherries and angelica. For 
instance : suppose we have for a sweet part of a tin 
of peaches or apricots. Pile a few of the peaches 
up in a dish — a small glass dish — and put a few 
preserved cherries in the corners, and stick a few 
pieces of cut angelica into the soft pieces of the 
peaches. The cost here is nearly nil, yet what a 
wonderful difference it makes in the appearance of 
a dish. 

Again, a w^hite corn-flour pudding made in a flat 
mould can be made to look very attractive by 
putting a few cherries round the edge, and a little 
green star of angelica with one red cherry for the 
centre, in the middle, and, say, a little pink sauce 
round the base. 

Salad, especially mayonnaise, can be treated like 
a white fish, with parsley and coral. Hard-boiled 
eggs make a pretty garnish. The yolks make a nice 



AT SMALL COST. 79 

yellow, and the whites will chop fine for white. 
You can make these chopped whites red by 
shaking them in a saucer with a few drops of 
cochineal. Beet-root also makes a nice red. 

Again, " The Table" so much depends on 
appearances. The cloth snow-white, the napkin 
neatly folded, the glasses bright and not smeary. 
If in summer, and you have a garden, a few 
cut flowers in the centre of the table. Avoid 
yellow, and don't mix pink and blue. Violet, green, 
and a little white are always pretty, or scarlet and 
green, but have plenty of green. 

In winter an evergreen fern sets off the table ; 
and even though you don't drink wine every day, 
there is no harm in placing a sherry glass and a 
coloured glass on the table. It costs no more, and 
pleases the eye. 

Of course, in small houses, a. clean napkin every 
day is not expected, but the creases can be taken 
out each day with a hot iron at the cost of a little 
trouble. 

Some may urge that all this is very nice, but 
even if it costs next to nothing, it costs time, and 
time is money. This I admit, but there are very 
many persons who would gladly employ their spare 
time, of which they have plenty, in making home 
more comfortable, if they only knew how to go to 
work about it. 

In ornamenting cold game, cold poultry, a 



80 CHOICE DISHES AT SMALL COST. 

very nice decoration is aspic jelly, yellow and pink, 
which can be made very cheaply. (See Aspic 
Jelly.) Ordinary coloured sweets can be used for 
ornamenting cakes that have been glazed or covered 
with sugar. 

Another form of ornamenting entrees, cold 
fowl, <tc., is to stick in a flower cut out of some 
vegetable, such as turnip or beetroot, in imitation 
of a camellia. 

In conclusion, remember that every meal should 
be served quietly. No clattering of plates, and 
rattling of spoons and forks, or, still worse^ un- 
seemly direction of, or interference with, servants. 
However hard it may be when things go wrong, 
grin and bear it, remembering the good advice of 
the Wise Man — " Better is a dry morsel and quiet- 
ness therewith, than a house full of sacrifices with 
strife." 



EECEIPTS 



Albert Pudding. — Take three ounces of sugar, 
and rub five or six lumps on the outside of a 
lemon. Take two eggs and break them, separating 
the yolks from the white. (See No. 15.) Next beat 
two ounces of butter to a cream (see No. 27) and 
mix it with the two yolks. Add gradually the three 
ounces of sugar, two ounces of flour, and two 
ounces of fine bread crumbs (see No. 20), and a 
quarter of a pound of sultana raisins. If not sufli- 
ciently moist, add a little milk. Next beat the two 
whites to a froth with a whisk, and mix it as lightly 
as possible with the other mixture, and pour it into 
a buttered mould or basin and steam it (see No. 8) 
for three hours. Turn it out of the mould or basin 
into a dish, and serve it with some sweet sauce. 
(See Sweet Sauce.) Probable cost. Is. 

Almond Ice Cream. (See Ice Cream.) 

Almonds, To Blanch. — Almonds are usually 
covered with a brown skin, which can be removed 
by pouring boiling water over them, when the skins 
are easily rubbed off with the fingers. Directly 
you rub off the skin, throw the now snow-white 
almond into cold water, or it will change colour. 
Almonds should always be blanched for dessert, 
when served with raisins. They can also be 
blanched and cut into strips to ornament tipsy 
cake or sweet puddings. 
G 



82 CHOICE DISHES 

Anchovies, To Fillet {i.e., To remove the bone). 
— Anchovies are usually preserved whole in strong 
brine. Cut off the heads, tails, and fins, and wash 
them, removing the white scales by rubbings in 
cold water. Then dry them on a cloth and open 
them, using the fingers, and take out the bone. 
Each anchovy will make two fillets. These fillets 
can be cut again in two, longways, when the fillets 
are wanted thin. 

Anchovy Sauce. — Take a quarter of a pint of 
butter sauce (see Butter Sauce), and add to it a 
dessertspoonful of grocers' Anchovy Sauce (essence 
of anchovy.) This sauce is improved by adding 
some port-wine dregs, a little cayenne pepper, a 
little lemon juice, and just a "suspicion" of nut- 
meg. Serve with boiled or fried fish, separately. 
It should never be poured either over or round fish 
of any description. 

Anchovy Toast. — Fillet six anchovies. (See An- 
chovies, TO Fillet.) Make some good hot 
buttered toast, buttering the bread on both sides. 
Cut the toast into strips as tliick as the finger, and 
place a thin fillet of anchovy — one anchovy making 
four fillets — on eacli strip. Place the anchovy 
toast in the oven sufficiently long to warm the 
fillet, and serve very hot. If served after a 
"bachelor's dinner," sprinkle the anchovies with 
cayenne pepper. 

Angelica Candied. Angelica candied can be 
bought at all large grocers. It will keep good for 
years, and is exceedingly useful as a garnish for 
sweets. As a little goes a very long way. it is an 
economical cjarnish. 



AT SMALL COST. 83 

Apple Dumplings. — Take some middling-sized 
apples; pare them carefully, and cut them into 
quarters, and cut out the core. ]\Iix together a 
little butter and brown sugar, and take a clove and 
strip of lemon-peel, the size and thickness of the 
little finger-nail. Put these into about as much 
butter and sugar as will fill the hollow of the apple 
when the four quarters have been put together 
again. Put two quarters together. Put the sugar, 
butter, cloves and lemon-peel into the hollow, piling 
it up. Place the other two quarters on the top, 
and surround the peeled apple with some suet 
crust. (See Suet Crust.) Tie each dumpling up 
in a floured cloth (see Ko. 24), and boil for about 
three quarters of an hour, or rather longer if the 
apples are large. Throw them into boiling water. 
It is dangerous, especially when young children eat 
the dumplings, to scoop out the core without 
cutting open the apple. It can be done, but 
should not be recommended, Great care should 
be taken to remove all the core. 

Apple Dumplings, Baked. — Proceed as before ; 
but instead of tying them up in a cloth, })lace them 
in a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate 
oven for about an hour. If the oven is fierce, the 
crust will get done before the apple is tender. 

Apple Fritters. — Take some apples and peel 
them ; then cut them in rather thin slices, across 
the core, and cut the core out of each slice, so that 
it forms a ring. Take a little sugar, and rub a few 
lumps on the outside of a lemon ; then crush and 
pound the sugar. Press each ring of apple on to 
this sugar each side ; dip it into some stiflf batter 



84 CHOICE DISHES 

(see Batter), and fry in some lard. (See No. 6.) 
When fried a nice brown colour, let them ckain. 
Shake some white powdered sugar over them, and 
pile the rings up on a dish. 

N.B. — Put the finger through the hole in the 
ring when throwing it into the fat, in order to 
keep the ring shape, as, sometimes, if the batter is 
very stiff, there will be no hole in the middle. 
Break off the rough edges before shaking the sugar 
over them. 

Apple Jelly. (See Jelly.) 

Apple Pie. — (See Pie, Fruit.) Peel the apples, 
cut them into quarters, remove the core very care- 
fully, place them in a pie-dish with a little brown 
sugar, two or tliree strips of lemon-peel not thicker 
than the finger-nail, and proceed as in making an 
ordinary fruit pie. A few cloves may be added, 
and many people consider a quince a great im- 
provement. (See QuixcE.) 

Apple Pudding. — (See Pudding, Fruit.) Treat 
the apples exactly as in making an apple pie ; 
flavour the same way, and proceed as in making an 
ordinary fruit pudding. 

Apple Sauce. — Peel and quarter some apples, 
and carefully remove all the core. Place them in a 
saucepan with sufiicient water just to moisten them 
and prevent them sticking, and, when sufliciently 
tender, beat them into a pulp with a fork. A 
small quantity of sugar may be added, as well as a 
few strips of lemon-peel and a few cloves. This is 
purely a matter of taste. German cooks would add 
a little vinegar to make the apples more acid ; 



AT SMALL COST. 85 

English, a little sugar to make tliem less acid. 
Recollect, apple sauce is generally eaten with 
roast goose, roast duck, or roast pork — all rich 
things ; therefore do not add any butter, as is often 
recommended. The sauce is best as plain and as 
simple as possible. I should recommend no sugar 
if the apples are fairly sweet, or flavouring of any 
kind whatever. 

Apples and Rice. — Proceed as in making apple- 
sauce. Sweeten, and serve surrounded by a border 
of boiled rice. (See Eice Borders.) 

Apples, Baked. — Place the apples whole on a 
buttered dish. Bake very slowly. When tender, 
place them on a dish, and shake some powdered 
sugar over them. They are equally nice cold. 

Apples, Stewed. — Peel, quarter, and remove the 
core from the apples. Stew them gently in a little 
water sweetened with white sugar and flavoured 
with a few cloves and strips of lemon-peel. When 
the quarters of apples are fairly tender, take them 
out and place them on a glass dish. If too much 
syrup, reduce it by boiling. Then colour the syrup 
pink with a little cochineal, and pour it over the 
apples. This is a nice dish for dessert. A spoon- 
ful of brandy added to the syrup makes a vast 
improvement. 

Apricot Fritters. — Take a tin of apricots, and 
pick out the firmest ones for the pui'pose of 
making Fritters. (See Fritters.) Drain off the 
syrup. Make them as dry as possible by draining 
them on a cloth and lettine: them stand some time. 



86 CHOICE DISHES 

Next, cover the pieces with finely-powdered sugar, 
and dip them quickly into thick batter, and then 
into very hot fat. (See No. 6). Shake some 
powdered sugar over them after draining from the 
fat. These fritters require careful handling. 

Apricot Jam. (See Jam. ) 

Apricot Tart, Green. — This is made from un- 
ripe apricots and windfalls. Never throw away 
unripe stone fruit of any kind. Pick them up, 
and stew them till quite tender in a little water 
and sugar, and then make a fruit-pie. (See Pie 
Fruit.) This equally applies to apricots that will 
not ripen owing to bad weather or want of sun. 

Apricots and Rice. — Get a border of rice, cold 
(See Rice Borders) ; pile the apricots up neatly 
in the centre ; thicken the syrup with a little corn- 
flour (See No. 13), and pour over the whole. 
This dish can be ornamented by placing preserved 
cherries in the angles of the piled-up apricots, and 
also by sticking strips of finely-cut angelica into 
the apricots. The syrup can also be coloured pink 
with a little cochineal. This is a cheap and very 
effective dish. 

Apricots, Tinned. — Apricots can now be bought 
very cheap preserved in tins ; they are generally in 
halves. They make an excellent sweet, or can be 
sent up as they are, with a little of the syrup, for 
dessert. (See No. 29.) 

Arrowroot. — Mix about two dessertspoonfuls of 
arrowroot in a basin with a little milk or water ; 
then pour on it a pint of boiling milk or water, as 
the case may be, and keep stirring. This is a 



AT SMALL COST, 87 

common dish for invalids. It can be flavoured in 
an almost infinite variety of ways, with sugar, 
wine, brandy, lemon-peel, nutmeg, cinnamon, &c. 

Arrowroot Pudding. — Make some aiTowroot as 
above, with either milk or water, and flavour, 
according to taste, with grated nutmeg or lemon-peel 
and sugar. Then pour it into a buttered pie-dish, 
and bake for three quarters of an hour in the oven. 
Eggs may be added, by being beaten in after it has 
been mixed in a basin, but are quite unnecessary, 
unless required as nourishment for an invalid. 

Artichokes, French, Boiled. — First soak the 
artichokes in strong salt and water for some 
time, and afterwards rinse them in several waters, 
in order to expel the insects. (See No. 9.) Cut 
the stalks even, and trim away the lower 
leaves and the ends from the upper one. Boil 
them in plenty of boiling salted water, with the 
tops downwards, and let them remain until the 
leaves can be easily drawn out. Send a little 
Dutch sauce (see Dutch Sauce) to table with 
them. Boiled artichokes often form a separate 
dish. The leaves should be pulled out with the 
fingers, and dipped in the sauce. Time, if young, 
about three quarters of an hour j longer, if old. 
Allow one for each person. 

Artichokes, French, Fried. — Wash, trim, and 
boil the artichokes as directed in the recipe for 
boiling. Remove the chokes and the leaves, leaving 
only the tender part. Cut them into about half a 
dozen pieces, then dip them in batter (see Batter), 
fry (see No. 6) in hot fat until they are lightly 
browned, and serve with fried parsley. Time to 



88 CHOICE DISHES 

fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, twopence 
to fourpence each. Allow three for four persons. 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, Boiled. — Peel the arti- 
chokes, and throw them into cold water to prevent 
their turning colour. Throw them into boiling 
water, if young, and boil from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Try them with a fork to see if they are 



ARTICHOKE IN SECTIOK. 

A The Leaves. b The Choke, c The Bottom. 

tender as, like potatoes, they spoil if they are 
the least overcooked. The water must be salted. 
(See No. 9.) Old artichokes must be placed in 
cold water, and allowed to boil till tender. 
Directly they are tender, drain them off, and place 
them in a vegetable dish, and pour over them 
either some butter sauce (see Butter Sauce), or 
some white sauce (see White Sauce). If the 



AT SMALL COST, 89 

latter, ornament by sprinkling a little clioppecl 
parsley over them ; if the former, a pretty way to 
decorate the dish is to place a boiled Brussels 
sprout between each artichoke. 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, Soup. — (See Palestine 
Soup.) 

Asparagus. — Take care to have the asparagus 
fresh. When the heads droop they are stale. 
Scrape the stalks white near the roots. Soak 
them in cold w^ater, and cut the stalks an equal 
length. Throw them into boiling salt and water. 
(See No. 9.) When done, drain them, and send 
them to table on a slice of hot toast, the white 
ends outwards each side. Time, from fifteen to 
twenty-five minutes, according to thickness. Serve 
a little butter-sauce (see Butter Sauce), or oiled 
butter separately, but don't pour it over the 
asparagus. 

Aspic Jelly. — Aspic Jelly is very useful in 
ornamenting cold dishes, such as cold roast 
fowl, (tc. Aspic Jelly should be very bright, and 
is made very cheaply by adding a little gelatine to 
No. 1 or No. 2 stock (see No. 10), to make it a 
fairly stifi" jelly. If necessary, this can be cleared. 
(See No. 18.) Add a little lemon-juice — a tea- 
spoonful to half a pint — and warm up the stock in 
a stewpan which has, if possible, been rubbed with 
a bead of garlic. 

Recollect, in pouring out the jelly to cool, what 
you require it for. If in strips to make stars, 
pour it on a flat plate a quarter of an inch deep, 
i.e., the jelly a quarter of an inch deep. Colour 



90 



CHOICE DISHES 



one plate a light pale yellow, with extract of meat ; 
another red, with cochineal. 

Australian Meat. — Australian meat, or meat 
preserved in tins — for the same observations that 
apply to Australian meat apply to all tinned 
meats — has many great advantages, and equally 
many drawbacks. 

First, so long as it is unopened it will keep good 
for an unlimited period; it is therefore always 




KING DISH FOK AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 



very useful to have a tin in the house ready for 
emergencies. This applies with very considerable 
force to those who live far away from the reach of 
butchers' shops. 

Another great advantage possessed by Australian 
meats is, or rather was, that it is considerably 
cheaper than ordinary fresh meat. Unfortunately 
its price has of late risen considerably, and as 
there is no doubt that it is not nearly so satisfying 
as fresh meat^ its value as a cheap article of food is 



AT SMALL COST. 91 

considerably dimiiiislied. In fact, its value varies in 
an inverse ratio with its price. It may seem 
paradoxical, but tlie cheaper it is per pound the 
more valuable it is. Very probably its price may 
go down before long, but this depends on the 
success or non-success of importing frozen meat. 

One drawback to Australian meat is, that it 
always seems over-cooked. By far the best method 
of eating it is to have it cold. Its appearance 
when cold is against it, and therefore the in- 
genious invention, sufficiently explained by the 
preceding diagram, is a very useful method of 
serving it. It should be cut very thi7i. For 
tins purpose it will be necessary to have a very 
sharp knife. 

Australian Beef or Mutton warmed up. — It is 
possible to warm up tinned meat in a variety of 
different ways, but as the chief drawback to it is its 
being over-cooked, you should get the sauce or gravy 
heated separately, and only add the meat to it for 
the purpose of being heated through, and served at 
once. Remember also that the greatest amount of 
nourishment in tinned meats is in the jelly. I 
will give one or two receipts for cooking tinned 
meats. 

Australian Meat Curried. — This is perhaps the 
best method of all for cooking Australian meat. 
Cut the tin open, and warm the tin just enough to 
melt the jelly. Pour out the jelly, and with it 
make some good curry sauce (see Curry Sauce) ; 
or it can be added to some curry sauce, and if there 
is much jelly, some more curry powder can be 
added. Make the sauce hot. Warm up the meat 



92 CHOICE DISHES 

in it, and serve it up as soon as tlie meat is hot 
through. Boiled rice can be served with it, or not, 
as -vvished. 

Australian Meat, Irish Stew of. — Open the 
tin, and drain off the melted jelly as before; peel 
and slice up half a dozen large onions, and boil 
them in the jelly till tender, adding water or stock 
if necessary ; boil a dozen potatoes separately, 
drain them off when nearly tender, and warm up 
the meat in the stock with the onions and potatoes, 
all together. Serve as soon as the meat is hot 
through. Add pepper and salt. 

Australian Meat Pie. — Warm the tin as before ; 
strain off the jelly. Place this in a saucepan with 
six beads of garlic, and let it boil gently for ten 
minutes. Take out the garlic. Add a teaspoonful 
of salt, another of black pepper, a pinch of 
cayenne, and half a grated nutmeg. Mix the meat 
thoroughly in this gravy, and put it in a pie-dish. 
Cover with a crust (see Paste for Pies), and bake 
till the pastry is done. Take it out of the oven, 
and let it get cold. 

This pie must be eaten cold, and not hot. If 
the jelly were insufficient to moisten the meat, 
some water, or, still better, stock should be added. 

Australian meat lacks flavour, and requires 
vigorous treatment as above. Should such a 
strong flavour of garlic be objected to, put in less, 
or an onion, but garlic is best. 

Bacon and Beans. — When boiled bacon is served 
hot, its most suitable accompaniment is boiled 
broad beans. (See Beans.) It is impossible to 



AT SMALL COST. 93 

boil the beans and bacon in the same saucepan 
without spoiling one of them. Parsley and butter 
sauce should be served with the beans separately. 
(See Parsley and Butter Sauce.) 

Bacon and Calves' Liver. (See Liver and Bacon). 

Bacon and Eggs.- — Bacon fried or grilled is often 
served with eggs, which may be either fried or 
poached ; if the former, the same frying-pan will 
fry the eggs, but pour off some of the fat first (see 
Eggs Fried, and Eggs Poached). The eggs should 
be placed on the bacon, care being taken not to 
break the yolks. In the case of poached eggs a 
very little chopped parsley can be sprinkled over 
the eggs by way of garnish. 

Bacon, Boiled. — Place the bacon in a saucepan, 
"with sufficient cold water to cover it. Bring the 
water to the simmering point, and let it simmer 
gently till done — time, about half an hour for a 
pound for small pieces, less for larger. If possible, 
add to the water an onion, with two or three cloves 
stuck in it, one carrot, one turnip, and some sticks 
of celery. Skim carefully several times. If the 
bacon is to be eaten cold, let it get cold in the 
liquor in which it is boiled. When quite done, 
pull the skin off, and cover with bread raspings. 
(See Bread Raspings.) If the bacon is cold when 
you put the raspings on, hold the top of it to the 
fire for a minute to make it greasy, and moist 
enough for them to stick. 

Bacon, Broiled. — Cut the bacon into thin slices, 
and place it on a clean gridiron ; turn it once or 
twice till done, and serve very hot. A shut-up 



94 CHOICE DISHES 

wire gridiron placed over a clear fire is best, as the 
bacon is more easily turned. This is a very nice, 
but an extravagant way of cooking bacon. 

Bacon, Fried. — It would perhaps be a better title 
to call this receipt bacon cooked in a frying-pan, as 
this is one of the few exceptions where a quantity 
of fat is not required. The bacon should be cut in 
rather thin slices and laid in a clean frying-pan 
that has never been burnt. Our chief care is, not 
to blacken the fat that runs away from the bacon, 
and therefore a fierce fire should be avoided. The 
slices of bacon should be turned occasionally, and 
cooked slowly. When the bacon becomes trans- 
parent, it is sufiiciently cooked. If the bacon is 
liked crisp and brown, rather more heat will be 
required. Avoid having too much fat in the frying- 
pan. Remember, you cannot fry bacon in an old 
burnt and blackened frying-pan if you wish it to 
look nice. 

Badminton Cup. (See Cups.) 
Bake, To. (See No. 4). 

Barley Water. — ^Wash a couple of ounces of 
pearl barley, and tlien boil it for about ten minutes 
in a little water. Pour this water away and the 
barley will be clean. Then add a couple of quarts 
of water to the barley, and let it boil away till 
there is only one quart. Strain off the barley, and 
let it get cold. Barley water requires stirring be- 
fore drinking. 

Barley water can be flavoured with sugar and 
lemon-peel, or with any flavouring liked, such as 
the juice of fruits— liquorice, etc. 



AT SMALL COST. ^O 

Batter. — Plain batter is a mixture of flour and 
water, or flour and milk, made about as thick as 
double cream, into wdiicli meat, fish, fruit, &c., is 
dipped and then plunged into very hot fat, which 
instantly hardens the batter, which forms a case 
round whatever has been dipped in it. 

Simple as the process is of frying in batter, in- 
experienced persons often fail, simply because they 
do not give due and proper attention to the follow- 
ing points, absolutely essential to success : — 

1st. The batter must be smooth. 

2nd. The batter must be thick. 

3rd. The fat must be very hot. 

In order to ensure the first point, you had better 
make your batter in a small thick basin. Let the 
flour be dry and sifted, then place the flour in the 
basin, add the water or milk gradually, and work it 
with a wooden spoon against the sides of the basin, 
and smooth it as if you were spreading a plaster. 
You must have sufficient patience to get it iKrfecihj 
smooth — no lumps whatever. 

Next, with regard to thickness : if " double 
cream " does not convey the idea, remember the 
batter must be thick enough to cling to whatever 
is dipped into it, and not so thin that it will run 
off". For instance, if you dip your fingei' in proper 
batter, and take your finger out and hold it down 
to drain oft', yet after your finger has drained, it 
should be perfectly white and covered, and you 
should not be able to see the colour of the flesh 
through the batter. 

With regard to the third point, probably the one 
on which most fail (see Ko 6.), I cannot too often 
impress upon your minds the importance of having 



96 CHOICE DISHES 

the fat sufficiently hot. I really don't think I 
exaggerate when I say that, probably, ninety-nine 
cooks out of a hundred, whose wages are £20 a 
year, fail in this one respect. 

Very first-class batter is made by adding half a 
pint of water to sufficient flour to make it the 
required thickness, and then working in the yolk 
of an Q^g. Shortly before the batter is used, the 
white of the ef?2: is beaten to a stiff froth with a 
whisk and added also. 

Good ordinary batter can, however, be made 
with plain flour and water, or flour and milk. In 
every case add a pinch of salt, for half a pint of 
water half a saltspoonful. 

Whenever you fiy anything in batter, let it be as 
dry as possible. Fish or meat should be floured first. 

Batter Pudding, Baked. — Take about six ounces 
of flour and place it in a basin, with just enough 
milk to moisten it. Next, boil a pint of milk 
separately, and gradually add the milk to the wet 
flour, and stir the whole time and work it smooth. 
Add also a pinch of salt ; then beat up two, 
three, or four eggs according as you wish to have 
the pudding good, and whisk them thoroughly 
together. (See No. 15.) Then add these to the 
batter and mix. The success of the pudding will 
depend upon mixing thoroughly. Pour this mix- 
ture into a buttered dish or tin, and bake in an oven 
till done. Time, probably from forty to fifty minutes. 

Batter Pudding, Boiled. — Proceed as above, and 
pour the mixture into a well-buttered basin, tie the 
basin up in a cloth, and boil for rather more than 
an hour and a half. Be sure the pudding is 



AT SMALL COST. 97 

plunged into boiling water. (See No. 24.) It is 
as well to make the basin hot first, then place a 
little piece of butter in it and move it about, so as 
to butter the basin. The sooner the pudding boils 
the better, as the flour has a tendency to settle. 
In every case of using milk for puddings, it is 
always best to boil the milk separately. Sweet 
sauce is a great improvement to Batter Pudding. 
(See Sweet Sauce.) 

Beans, Broad, Boiled. — Broad beans, to be nice, 
must be young and fresh. Boil in the ordinary 
way. (See No. 9.) Time about twenty minutes. 
These are best eaten with hot boiled bacon or ham. 
Serve some parsley and butter sauce with them. 
(See Parsley and Butter Sauce). 

Beans, Broad, Mashed. — This is really a w^ay of 
using up old beans too old to boil. Boil the beans, 
if old, for rather more than an hour. Take off the 
hard skins, and mash with a little butter ; or, 
better still, some bacon fat ; or, scrape a piece of 
fat cold boiled bacon, and add. Also add a little 
pepper and salt. After mashing, make them hot in 
a saucepan by stirring them about. (See No. 9.) 

Beans, French, Boiled. — French beans, like 
broad beans, should be young and fresh-gathered. 
Take the beans, and cut off the two ends, and peel 
off the string that runs dow^n the edge of each side 
of the bean, one on each side ; when young, they 
are best boiled whole ; when more mature, they 
must be cut in strips ; when old, cut them slanting. 
Boil in the ordinary way. (See No. 9.) Drain 
thoroughly, and serve very hot. A little piece 
of butter may be added. 

H 



98 CHOICE DISHES 

Beans, French (French Fashion). — Proceed as 
above, and, after straining, put them back in the 
saucepan, with a piece of butter, some lemon-juice, 
pepper and salt, half a saltspoonful of powdered 
sugar, and just a suspicion of nutmeg. The sauce- 
pan can also be rubbed very slightly indeed with a 
bead of garlic. 

Beans, French, Cold. — The remains of cold 
French beans make a most delicious salad, dressed 
with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. (See 
Salad Dressing.) A little chopped parsley may 
be added, and they may be mixed with cold 
potatoes. 

Beans, Haricot. — White haricot beans are a 
very cheap and nourishing form of food, too much 
neglected in England. Put the beans into water 
to soak over-night, and put a piece of soda as big 
as a pea in the water. Should any beans swim, 
tlirow them away, as it shows they are bad. Then 
place them in cold water without any salt, or, still 
better, in some greasy stock, and boil till tender. 
Strain them off, and serve. If boiled in water, a 
little piece of butter should be mixed with them 
after they are boiled. 

Beans, Haricot (French Fashion). — Proceed as 
above. Boil the beans in water ; strain them off. 
Then rub the bottom of the saucepan with a bead 
of garlic. Put back the beans, and mix in a piece 
of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped jmrsley, and the 
juice of half a lemon. 

Beans, Haricot (Another Way). — Boil the beans 
tender in water, proceeding as above ; drain them 



AT SMALL COST. 99 

off, and add a quarter of a pint of pure olive oil. 
Kub the saucepan with garlic, and add the chopped 
parsley, and let the beans stew in the oil for ten 
minutes or longer. Add pepper and salt, and serve 
them with some fried bread round the beans. 

Beshamel Sauce. — This is a most delicious 
sauce, and can be made good and cheap without 
the use of cream. To make a pint of Bechamel, 
take a quart of No. 3 Stock (see ISTo. 10), and 
place it in an open saucepan to boil away. (See 
No. 26.) Boil a pint of milk separately, and, if 
possible, put a bay-leaf in the milk, and just a 
suspicion of nutmeg — rub a nutmeg- once across 
the grater, but don't rub it bacK again. When 
the stock has boiled away to about a quarter of a 
pint — take care in doing this, if the stock is strong, 
that you don't boil it away so much that it gets 
sticky and begins to turn colour ; i.e., don't boil it 
to what cooks call a glaze — pour the boiling milk 
on to the reduced stock, and stir it up. Then 
thicken with some white thickening, or butter and 
flour (see No. 12) till it is as thick as cream. If it 
is not smooth, pass it through a sieve. Remem- 
ber, no extract of meat must have been put to 
No. 3 stock. Probable cost of one pint, five- 
pence. A pint is a large quantity, but you can 
make less by following out the principles of the 
above directions. 

This delicious sauce should be used more fre- 
quently than it is. It is a great help to Avarm up 
cold fowl, cold veal, or any white meat. It can be 
served with potatoes. It is invaluable with sweet- 
breads of every description. 



100 CHOICE DISHES 

Bechamel Sauce (Quick and Cheap). — Take a 
little stock (white), and put it into a saucepan to 
boil. Thicken it Avith a little white thickening. 
(See No. 12). Season with pepper and salt. A 
bay-leaf may be boiled in the stock, and just a sus- 
picion of nutmeg. A few drops of lemon-juice 
may be added at the last moment. Probable cost 
of one pint, Hd. 

Bechamel Sauce. Fish. — Whenever you boil 
fish, try and get some bones to make fish Bechamel, 
as its cost is almost nil, and yet it is a most 
delicious accompaniment to fish. 

Suppose we have a sole filleted. Take the back- 
bone and fins, and place them in a little water to 
boil. A little tiny piece of onion may be added. 
Boil for some time, till the water is reduced to 
half a pint, then thicken this with some white 
thickening (see No. 12), or plain butter and flour, 
till it is as thick as double cream. Season with pepper 
and salt, and, if you have a bottle of essence of 
almonds in tlie house, you can act as follows : — 
Turn the bottle upside-down on to the cork ; take 
out the cork, and touch a spoon with the wet end 
of the cork. Stir the sauce with this spoon. This 
Avill be sufiicient to flavour the sauce. Also, a 
little chopped parsley may be thrown in, and a few 
drops of lemon-juice. This is a very cheap sauce, 
as the backbone and fins of a filleted sole are gene- 
rally thrown away. The stock made from them 
would make a hard jelly when cold. It is much 
nicer than butter-sauce, or ordinary melted butter, 
and far cheaper. Probable cost of a quarter of a 
pint, one penny. You may get this sauce made 



AT SMALL COST. 101 

exactly this way at some great public dinner. You 
would then think very likely, " What a delicious 
fish-sauce 1 It must be very expensive." 

Beef, Aitchbone of, Salted. — Some persons roast 
this joint, but we think it far superior salted and 
boiled as follows : — Take a piece of beef, say, 
ten pounds, and rub into it a mixture com- 
pounded of three cjuarters of a pound of salt, 
one ounce of dark moist sugar, and half an ounce 
of saltpetre. Turn the meat each day, and rulj 
the j)ickle well in every time. Keep in this 
condition four or five days, when it will be found 
salt enough for most people. "When wanted for use, 
put it into a large saucepan, with enough water 
to cover, let it come to a boil, then draw back, 
and simmer gently for two hours and a half. The 
slower it simmers the better. Carrots, turnips, and 
suet dumplings are the proper accompaniments to 
this dish, only do not boil them with the meat. 
The soft, marroAv-like fat at the back of the joint 
should be eaten when it is hot, the hard fat left 
until the joint is served cold. The liquor in which 
the beef is boiled should not be thrown away, some 
of it will make excellent pea-soup. Probable cost, 
7|d. to 8Jd. per pound. Sufficient for eight or 
nine persons. 

Beef, Aitchbone, of. To Carve. — In carving an 
aitchbone of beef it is necessary that it should be 
cut across the grain. In order to do this the knife 
should follow the line from A to B in the follow- 
ing illustration. The meat should be cut as thin as 
possible, and very evenly. Cut the lean and the 
fat in once slice, and if more fat is desired it should 



102 CHOICE DISHES 

be taken horizontally from the side. Before pro- 
ceeding to serve, a slice of about a quarter of an 
inch in thickness should be cut from the top, so 
that the juicy part of the meat may be obtained at 
once. 




AITCHBOSE OF BEEF. 



Beef Brisket, Boiled. — This is a cheap piece of 
beef, costing generally from sevenpence to eight- 
pence a pound. Boil (see No. 1), and serve with 
boiled carrots, or parsnips, or greens. Small suet 
dumplings are also a great improvement. 

Beef Brisket, Stewed. — Take out what bones 
you can before stewing ; then place the meat in a 
stewpan or saucepan, with some carrots cut up, 
some onions (small ones, previously browned in a 
frying-pan, are best), a teaspoonful of mixed sw^eet 
herbs. (See Herbs.) Stew gently till the meat is 
thoroughly done. (See No. 2.) When done, it is 
best to take out the meat, and bring the gravy to 
a boil. Thicken very slightly w^ith a little corn- 
flour — (this is not necessary) — and colour the 
gravy with a few drops of colouring (see No. 1 9) 
— (this also is not essential). 

Beef, Brisket of. To Carve. — The accompanying 
engraving represents the appearance of a brisket of 



AT SMALL COST. 103 

beef ready for table. There is no difficulty in 
carving it. The only thing to observe is that it 
should be cut cleanly along the bones, with a 
firm hand, in moderately thick slices. Cut it 




BRISKET OF BEEF. 



close down to the bones, so that they may not 
have a rough and jagged appearance when re- 
moved. 

Beef, Cold Roast. — As a rule, cold roast beef is 
so nice, that it is a pity to warm it up, though 
receipts for so doing will be given under their 
respective headings, such as mince, &c. In serving 
up cold roast beef, see that it is placed on a clean 
dish, sufficiently large. Cold joints should always 
be placed on good-sized dishes. See that the gravy 
left on the plate which held it when it was hot is 
not wasted. 

If possible, ornament the cold roast beef with 
scraped horse-radish and green parsley. (See 
No. 29.) 

A nice salad of lettuce is the best accompani- 
ment, or, indeed, any kind of salad, as well as 
ehutney or pickles, 



104 CHOICE DISHES 

Beef, Corned. — Corned beef should alway be 
boiled. (See No. 1.) Corned beef will take longer 
to boil than ordinary fresh meat. 

Beef, Corned, Tinned. — One of the best meats 
preserved in tins is corned beef. The tin should 
be opened by cutting off the biggest end. Corned 
beef preserved should be cut thin with a very 
sharp knife. It makes excellent sandwiches. (See 
Sandwiches.) 

Beef, Croquettes. (See Rissoles.) 

Beef, Curried. — A very nice way of using up 
odds and ends of cold beef is to curry it. For 
instance, the remains of the end of a sirloin of 
beef. If the beef is coarse-grained, shred the meat 
with a couple of forks ; then warm up in some 
curry sauce. (See Curry Sauce.) Don't let the 
beef be too long warming up, as it is already 
sufficiently cooked. Serve some rice, in a separate 
dish, or the curry can be placed in a border of 
boiled rice. 

Beef Dripping. — This is excellent for making 
toast, and should be carefully preserved, as it is 
both wholesome and nourishing. It is not so good 
for frying purposes as lard, and should be used, 
where economy is a consideration, as much as 
possible for making dripping-crust for pies, &c. 

Beef Fillet. (See Beef Steak.) 

Beef Gravy. — Gravy beef is a name used for shin 
of beef or leg of beef, so called because it is used 
for making gravy and soups. Gravy beef is, of 
course, very useful, but wdiere extract of meat can 



AT SMALL COST. 105 

be obtained, is not essential where economy is a 
consideration. It is often wanted for beef tea. 
Gravy beef should be fi'esh killed, and as much as 
possible perfectly free from fat. 

Beef, Hashed. (See Hash.) 

Beef, Minced. (See Mince.) 

Beef, Olives (or Olive.) Get some steak (rump 
steak, beef steak, or fillet steak), cut thin. You 
can make one large beef olive if you have a large 
steak, or you can make several small ones with 
small slices. The principle is the same. Spread 
the slices of steak, after sprinkling them with 
pepper and salt, with a thin layer of veal stuffing 
(see Yeal Stuffing) ; then roll the slices of beef 
well up, so as to keep in the stuffing, tie up the 
two ends with string, rather tight, and tie up the 
middle enough to prevejit the meat from unrolling 
or gaping. Bake the beef olive in the oven, and 
baste with some dripping. (See No. 4.) Place it 
on a dish when sufficiently baked, and glaze it with a 
brush dipped in half a teaspoonful of soy mixed 
with a teaspoonful of gravy. Pour some good 
brown gravy (see Gravy) round it, but not over it. 
This is a handsome entree, not very expensive. A 
nicely-cut flower from a turnip, with pink edges, 
(cochineal,) may be stuck in it. 

Beef Pie. (See Pies, Meat.) 

Beef, Potted. — The best potted beef is made 
from meat cooked expressly for it by placing it in 
a jar tightly shut, with about a teaspoonful or 
more of water, and then boiling the jar for several 



106 CHOICE DISHES 

hours in water, and letting the beef get cold before 
the jar is opened. 

Potted beef is generally made from the remains 
of cold boiled beef, or, indeed, any cold cooked 
meat will do. Remove all gristle and skin ; cut it 
up, and either send it through a mincing machine, 
or poiuid it in a mortar, or rub it through a wire 
sieve. Then mix to every pound of beef half a 
pound of clarified butter, or less butter if you have 
a little strong gravy which is a verij hard jelly when 
cold. Season with half a saltspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, a little salt, and half a grated nutmeg. A 
little dried powdered bay-leaf is an improvement, 
and you may rub the basin in which you mix 
the potted meat with garlic. 

Press the potted meat into small jars or pots, 
make them hot in the oven, and then cover with 
clarified butter, poured on hot, and then let the 
pots get cold. 

Beef, Ribs of, To Carve.— The ribs should be 
cut in thin and even slices from the thick end 
towards the thin, in the same manner as the 
sirloin ; this can be more readily and cleanly done 
if the carving-knife is first run along between the 
meat and the end and rib-bones. 

Beef, Ribs of, To Roast. — The best piece to roast 
is the fore-rib, and it should be hung for two or three 
days or longer, according to the weather, before 
being cooked. The ends of the ribs should be sawn 
ofl^, the outside fat fastened with skewers, and the 
strong sinew and chine bones removed. The joint 
should first be placed near the fire, and after a short 
time it should be drawn back and roasted steadily. 



AT SMALL COST. 



107 



(See No. 3.) Baste freely with clarified dripping at 
first, as there will not be sufficient fat when first 
put down; keep basting at intervals of ten minutes 




RIBS OF BEEF. 



till done. Care must be taken not to allow it to 
burn, as it is very easily spoiled. Serve with horse- 
radish sauce. ProV)able cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. 

Beef, Ribs of, Boned. — The most economical 
mode of cooking ribs of beef is to have the ribs 
boned and rolled. Take care the ribs are carefully 
skewered together, and in roasting, it is a good plan 
to tie the rolled ribs round with a i)iece of string ; 
roast as usual. (See No. 3.) Of course the bones 
will help to make the stock. 

Beef Rissoles. (See Rissoles.) 

Beef, Roast. — Roast beef is our national dish. 
The finest joint is the sirloin, and the larger the 



108 CHOICE DISHES 

better. Next in value to the sirloin come ribs of 
beef. (For roasting beef in general see No. 3.) 

Beef, Round of. — This is generally salted, but 
it is far better and more economical to boil it 
fresh, on account of the excellent soup that can be 
made of the water in which it is boiled. (For 
boiling round of beef, salt or fresh, see No. 1.) 

Beef, Salt. — Beef is best salted at the butchers, 
and should also be soaked in cold water for a few 
hours to take off a little of the outside salt. Some- 
times, in the case of a sirloin of beef, it is best to 
cut off the end and salt it. Plain salt and water 
will do, or it may be treated like aitchbone of beef. 
(See Aitchbone of Beef Salted.) The water 
that has boiled salt beef ^\ill lielj) to make pea- 
soup, lentil-soup, etc. 

Beef Sausages, To Make. — The great advantage 
of home-made sausages over bought ones is, that 
in the former case you know what is in them, and 
in the latter case you don't. Get some fresh meat 
perfectly free from skin and gristle ; let the lean 
be nearly double the quantity of fat, but not quite. 
Mince freely (a machine is of course best), and 
flavour with powdered sage-leaves — say, a tea- 
spoonful to three pounds of meat — half that 
quantity of thyme, and some powdered allspice, and 
nutmeg, and pepper and salt. 

The best fat for sausasres is c^ood beef suet. 
Marjoram may be used instead of sage. 

Those who like sausages highly seasoned may 
increase the herbs and spices, and vice versa. 

Beef sausages are far best fried and served with 
mashed potatoes. 



AT SMALL COST. 



109 



Beef, Sirloin of, Roast. — A piece weighing from 
ten to twelve pounds is best; do not use flour, 
but roast according to directions given in No. 3. 
Serve Yorkshire Pudding with it. 

Beef, Sirloin of. To Carve.— A sirloin should 
be cut with one good firm stroke from end to end 
of the joint, at the upper portion, making the cut 
very clean and even from a b to c. Then dis- 




SIRLOIX OF BEEF. 



engage it from the bone by a horizontal cut exactly 
to the bone, b to d, using the tip of the knife. 
Bad carving bears the hand away to the rind of 
the beef, eventually, after many cuts, peeling it 
back to the other side, leaving a portion of the 
best of the meat adhering to the bone. Every 
slice should be clean and even, and the sirloin 
should cut fairly to the veiy end. Many persons 
cut the under side whilst hot, not reckoning it 
so good cold ; but this is a matter of taste, and so 
is the mode of carving it. The best way is first of 
all to remove the fat, e, which chops up well to 
make puddings, if not eaten at talkie. Then the 



110 CHOICE DISHES 

under part can be cut, as already described, from 
end to end, F to g, or downwards, as shown by the 
marks at h. 

Beef- steak (French Fashion). — Cook a steak in 
any of the former ways, and when it is finished 
place a himp of butter that has been mixed with a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, on the top. Serve 
a border of fried potatoes round the steak. 

Beef-steak and Kidney Pudding. (See Pudding, 
Meat). 

Beef-steak Cooked in a Frying-pan. — Get a little 
piece of fat to moisten the frying-pan, and place 
the steak on it over a moderate fire ; brown the 
steak gradually, and try and avoid drying-up and 
burning the outside too much. 

Be very careful not to stick a fork in it and let 
out the gravy. If steak is of second-i-ate quality 
and not very red, this method is preferable to 
grilling. You will be able to tell when the steak 
is done, by its ceasing to feel spongy when pressed. 
If the steak is not very fat, put a little piece of 
butter on it. 

Some persons like a little gravy rather thick, 
with their steaks. When you have cooked your 
steak, pour about a wineglassful of water into 
the frying-pan, and stir it up : add about a tea- 
spoonful of flour to thicken it, and a spoonful of 
ketchup, and a little pepper and salt. The frying- 
pan may be well rubbed first, if liked, with a piece 
of onion. 

Beef-steak, Fried. — Beef-steak really fried is a 
common mode of cooking steak abroad, and is now 



AT SMALL COST. Ill 

done in London at the Italian chocolate restaurants. 
The steak is plunged in very hot fat. This is the 
quickest way of cooking steak, and takes but a very 
few minutes, varying with the thickness of the steak. 

Beef-steak Pie. (See Pie, Meat). 

Beef-steak, Plain Grilled. — The best steak is 
rump steak. Wlien you have good rump steak, 
really good, first-class meat, red and juicy, gi-illin^- 
is best. (To grill a steak, see No. 5.) Steak should 
be cut, if good, an inch thick, and one paii: should 
not be thicker than another. 

Beef-steak, Stewed.— (See No. 2.) Cut the 
steak in pieces, about three or four inches long, two 
wide, and have plenty of fat. Brown them slightly 
in a frying-pan without cooking them. Then place 
them in a stew-pan, with one carrot sliced, one 
large onion sliced, to every pound of steak, and 
sufiicient Stock No. 3 to cover the meat. Stew 
very gently, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley 
over it before serving. Thicken the gravy at the 
finish, taking out the meat first, with a little corn- 
flour, just enough to take off the thinness. A little 
port-wine dregs are an improvement ; two or three 
cloves may be put in, and even half a teaspoonful 
of red currant jelly, as well as the necessary pepper 
and salt. Stewed steak is always best cooked the 
day before, allowed to get cold, and the fat then 
removed. It is none the worse for warming up. 
Any kind of steak or beef will stew. 

Beef, Stewed. — Beef raw, of any description, will 
easily stew, and if of inferior quality can be dis- 
guised by adding onions or garlic, spices, celery, 
thyme, pepper, (tc. (See No. 2.) Beef makes also 



112 CHOICE DISHES 

excellent Irish stew. (See Irish Stew.) Stewed 
beef requires plenty of pepper and salt, especially 
the former. 

Beef-tea. — Take a pound of lean gravy beef, cut 
it into very small pieces, and place it in a basin 
with a pint of cold water. Press the beef with a 
spoon, and extract as much of the juice as you can : 
then place it in a saucepan and let it simmer (not 
boil) on the fire, gently, for an hour. Skim, and 
add a little salt, and strain it off. The meat and 
water can be placed in a jug and put in the oven. 

Beef-tea (for very Young Infants). — Very young 
children dislike salt. Nature's food is sweet. 
Therefore, when doctors order beef-tea, use sugar 
instead of salt. This is the common j)ractice in 
London hosj^itals, 

Beef-tea (very quick). — Sometimes beef-tea is 
wanted in a great hurry. Cut up the meat, say 
one pound, very small, and place it in a basin with 
half a pint of water or less. Press thoroughly with 
a spoon for some time, make it hot, and strain it 
at once. The meat can be put back, and be 
simmered with some more water to make more. 

Beef-tea, Jelly. — Sometimes invalids tire of 
beef-tea. In this case, mix a little wine with the 
beef -tea, and, if liked, sugar instead of salt. Let 
it get cold, when it will be a jelly. This jelly 
will be an agreeable change. 

Beer Cup. (See Cups.) 

Beetroot, Boiled. — Wash the beetroot, without 
breaking the skin ; boil for about two hours. Let 



AT SMALL COST. 113 

it get cold, then cut it in slices. Dress as for 
salad. 

Blackberry Jam. (See Jam.) 

Blackberry Pudding". (Bee Pudding, Fruit.) 

Black Butter. (See Butter.) 

Black-currant Jam. (See Jam.) 

Black-currant Pudding. (See Pudding, Fruit. 

Black-currant Tart. (See Pie, Fruit.) 

Bloaters. — Split open the fish. Take out the 
backbone carefully, so as to pull out the " ribs " 
with it. Grill over a clear fire. (See No. 5.) 
When cooked, place a piece of butter on each 
bloater, and move it about to moisten it. The heat 
of the bloater will, of course, melt the butter. 

Bloaters can also be cooked in front of the fire 
in a shut-up gridiron, or in a frying-pan — in which 
case the frying-pan must be greased. Bloaters 
should always be opened before they are cooked, in 
order to avoid the offensive smell caused by open- 
ing them afterwards ; many people also remove 
the heads, which are very unsightly. It is always 
advisable when cooking bloaters to shut the kitchen 
door first, and open the window at the top. They 
make the whole house smell. 

The greatest care should be taken in cleaning the 
frying-pan or gridiron that has cooked bloaters. It 
is almost impossible to get perfectly rid of the 
flavour. If you have to cook a steak on a giudiron 
that has cooked a bloater, make it very hot first ; 
then wipe it, and rub it with an onion. 

Bloaters, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 



114 CHOICE DISHES 

Boil, To. (See No. 1.) 

Boiling Pot. — Large iron stewpans in which 
hams, joints of meat, and soups can be cooked are 
generally called boiling pots. They are made of 




BOILING POT. 



wrought-iron or cast-iron. The former are the 
more expensive of the two, but are at the same 
time more durable, as they are better able to with- 




DEEP BOILING POT. 



stand the heat of the fire. These vessels should be 
washed out and dried as soon as they are done 
with, and Avhen not in use should be kept with- 
out cover in a dry place. Probable cost of a pot 



AT SMALL COST. 115 

to liold five-and-a-hcilf gallons, Avrouglit iron, £1 j 
east-iron, 7s. 

Bone, To. (See No. 22). 

Bones, Devilled and Grilled. — Grilled bones are 
simply grilling bones — say, the remains of sirloin 
of beef bone, over a fierce, clear fire. (See No. 5.) 
They should be sent up with the meat black. 
Devilled bones consist of bones grilled, but pre- 
viously sprinkled with a mixture of equal parts of 
cayenne pejDper, black pepper, and salt. It is some- 
times best to butter the bone, and to cut insertions 
in the meat, and put the mixture in the cuts, with a 
little butter to make it stick. The fire must be very 
fierce, and fat can be thrown in to make it blaze. 

Bottle- Jack and Screen. — The usual method 
employed for roasting meat is to hang the bottle- 
jack on the movable bar placed for its reception on 
the front of the mantelshelf, to suspend the wheel 
from the jack, and to hang the meat by a hook 
from the wheel. A screen, either entirely made of 
'tin or lined with it, is then put in front of the fire 
to keep in the heat, and the jack is wound up two 
or three times whilst a joint is being roasted. By 
a modern improvement, the bar can be altogether 
dispensed with, and the jack fastened above the 
screen, which is so made that the heat will be con- 
densed as much as possible. Those who do not 
wish to go to the expense of a bottle-jack, but who 
appreciate the difference between a roasted joint and 
a baked one, may find an economical substitute for 
the bottle-jack in the chimney screw-jack, which 
may be fastened upon any mantelshelf when 
wanted, and unscrewed when done witli. It re- 



116 



CHOICE DISHES 



quires a little more watching than the ordinary 
bottle-jack ; but, if a key be hung upon the hook 
with six or seven thicknesses of worsted wound 




BOTTLE-JACK AND SCEEEN. 



round it, one end of which is fastened to the meat- 
hook, the twisting and untwisting of the worsted 
cord will cause a rotatory motion like that produced 
by the more expensive bottle-jack. 

Bouillon. (See No. 10). 

Bread Crumbs, Fried. (See No. 7.) 



AT SMALL cost. 117 

Bread, Fried. (See No. 7.) 

Bread Pudding, Cheap. — This is a convenient 
pudding for using up stale pieces of bread. Put the 
pieces of bread into water to soak for some time ; 
then drain them, and squeeze the water out. Mix 
the soaked bread with some milk boiled separately, 
and tAvo ounces of chopped suet. Sweeten with some 
sugar, and flavour with a teaspoonful of allspice. 
Bake in a buttered pie-dish for one and a half hour. 

Bread Pudding. Another Way. — Proceed as 
before, adding two eggs, well beaten up, instead of 
the two ounces of suet. Sprinkle some currants 
over the top, and bake till it sets. 

Bread Raspings. — These are convenient for 
ornamenting boiled bacon, hams, &c. They can 
generally be obtained from the baker gratis, or can 
be made at home by grating the outside of a 
nicely-coloured loaf of bread. 

Bread Sauce. — Make some bread-crumbs (see 
No. 20), and boil some milk. When the milk 
boils, throw in the bread-crumbs, and boil them in 
the milk for a few minutes. A few peppercorns 
and a little salt should be added, and an onion can 
be placed in the sauce for a few minutes to impart 
a flavour to it. The onion should be taken out 
whole, and care should be taken that no little 
pieces of onion are left behind in the sauce. Just 
before sending to table, mix in a little piece of 
butter, and also add a " suspicion " of nutmeg. 
The consistency of bread-sauce should be rather 
more milk than will soak up the bread-crumbs. 

Bread Sippets. — Bread sippets are often made 



118 CHOICE DISHES 

by toasting bread before the fire. By far tlie best 
sippets are made by frying pieces of stale bread. 
(See No. 7.) 

Bream. — This is a coarse fish, and, like all other 
coarse fish, is best stuffed and baked. First, care- 
fully clean the fish, and scrape off all the scales, 
and wash it in cold water after scraping, to see 
that all the scales are removed. This is a trouble- 
some job. Make some veal stuffing (see Yeal 
Stuffing), and put it in the fish. Bake the fish in 
the oven, basting it with a little butter, and occa- 
sionally turning it. When tender, take out the 
fish, and shake some bread raspings over it to give 
it a colour. Drop a little flour into the tin with 
the butter, and mix it up, and add to it a little 
water, pouring all the contents of the tin into a 
saucepan. Boil the sauce, which will become 
thick, add a little cayenne pepper, or a couple of 
teasjDoonfuls of soy, or a tablespoonful of ketchup. 
A few drops of lemon-juice can be added. Serve 
the sauce separately. 

Brill, To Boil.— All flat-fish are better for 
being plump and thick. Rub the white sides of 
the fish with a slice of lemon, and boil. (See 
No. 1.) Anchovy-sauce, plain butter-sauce, shrimp- 
sauce, or lobster-sauce, can be served with brill. 
For these, see their respective headings. 

Broad Beans. (See Beans, Broad.) 

Broccoli. — Trim the broccoli and soak it in salt 
and water in order to get rid of any insects. Boil 
it in the usual way. (See No. 9). Time, from ten 
to fifteen minutes. 



AT SMALL COST. 119 

Broil, To. (See Xo. 5.) 

Broth. (See In^. 10.) 

Broth, Scotch. (See Scotch Soup.) 

Brussels Sprouts. — Wash the Brussels sprouts 
in cold water, and pick any dead leaves away, and 
trim the stalks. Boil in a large saucepan. (See 
No. 9.) Time, about fifteen minutes. 

Bubhle and Squeak. — Bubble and Squeak con- 
sists of warming np any cold vegetables — such as 
greens and potatoes — in some drip^Ding in a frying- 
pan. Slices of onion can be added, as well as 
the remains of cold meajt, or any scraps. Fry for 
a quarter to half an hour, according to quantity ; 
flavour with pepper and salt. "When meat is added, 
put the meat in the middle, and the fried vegetables 
round the edge. 

Bullock's Kidney. (See KID^'EY.) 

Bullock's Tongue. (See Tongue.) 

Bullock's Liver. (See Liver.) 

Butter, Black. — This is known under the names 
of Nut-brown Butter, Brown Butter, Burnt Butter, 
and Beurre Noir. Take two ounces of butter, 
melt it in a frying-pan till it turns a rich brown 
colour, then add half a teaspoonful of chopped 
capers, a teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce, and a tea- 
spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little black 
pepper. A piece of brown thickening (see No. 12), 
or a piece of glaze — as big as a lump of sugar — 
dissolved in it, is an improvement. 

This sauce is served with skate boiled, and is 
very suitable for any coarse l^oiled fish. 



120 CHOICE DISHES 

Butter Clarified. — This is useful for a variety 
of purposes, especially for pouring over potted 
meats. To make clarified butter read No. 12. 
Brown and white thickening is made with clarified 
butter. 

Butter, Melted (the common method). — For 
many years past cooks have been labouring under 
the delusion that melted butter, or butter sauce, is 
made by thickening milk with some flour and 
butter. This is usually made in large quantities, 
the greater part of which is generally wasted, 
However, by adding grated cheese to what is left, 
some cayenne pepper, and one yolk of an egg, 
cheese-straws can be made out of what is left. 
Thickened milk can be served as a tish-sauce. 

Butter, Oiled. — This is a very common sauce 
abroad for boiled fish, and is very nice, and quickly 
made. Take a piece of })utter, place it in a sauce- 
tureen, and place the tureen in the oven till the 
butter is oiled. 

Butter Sauce, or Melted Butter. — This is a 
most important sauce, but rarely made properly by 
English cooks, who, as a rule, make it too thick 
with flour, and also generally make quite ten times 
the quantity really required. Good butter sauce, 
or melted butter, is made as follows : — Take a 
quarter of a pound of butter, and cut it into half a 
dozen pieces the same size. Take one of these 
pieces and place it in a small saucepan with about 
the same quantity of flour. Dissolve the butter, 
and mix the flour with it. Now add half a tumbler 



AT SMALL COST. 121 

of water, or stock, or fish stock, and stir it up, 
and bring it gently to a boil. This will cause 
it to become about as thick as cream. Add a 
"suspicion" of nutmeg, and then gradually add 
and melt in the remains of the quarter of a 
pound of butter; do not let it boil, and add the 
butter the last thing. It is apt to curdle, or 
rather decompose. A little cold water will often 
restore it. This really delicious sauce is adapted 
for all kinds of fish, both boiled and fried. It 
is somewhat expensive, and should be made in 
small quantities, as, if properly made it is very rich, 
and a little will go a long way. 

Cabbage, Boiled. — Cut off the stalks, and trim 
away the outside leaves, and any dead ones. Cut 
the cabbages in halves, w^ash them thoroughly, and 
soak them in salt and water. Boil (see No. 9). 
Young summer cabbages take from ten to fifteen 
minutes, old ones half an hour ; but try them 
with a fork, and take them out directly they are 
tender. 

Cabbage Soup. — Cut up two or three onions, 
and fry them a nice brown in some fat or dripping ; 
add them to a quart of greasy stock (see No. 10, 
stock No. 4) ; cut up a couple of small cabbages, 
or one large one, into small pieces, as well as a few 
sticks of celery, and a small carrot and turnip, 
and boil all together by throwing them into 
the boiling stock. Take the stock off the boil as 
soon as it once more boils up, and let the vegetables 
simmer till they are tender, when the souj) will be 
done. Some fried bread makes a nice accouipani- 
ment. 



122 



CHOICE DISHES 



Cabinet Pudding. — Boil a pmt of milk separately, 
and strain it into a basin ; make it sweet with some 
lump sugar, some of which has been rubbed on the 
outside rind of lemon. Next : beat in thoroughly, 
when the milk has partly cooled, four well-beaten 
eggs. Next : butter a mould or basin — a plain 
round basin makes a handsome pudding — and stick 
in the butter some stoned raisins, or some pre- 
served cherries, or sliced candied peel, or any kind 




CABIXKT PUDDIXG. 



of preserved fruit ; then place in the mould some 
sliced sponge cake, mixed, if the pudding is wished 
very rich, with ratafias and maccaroons ; then pour 
the mixed eggs and milk, which is really unthickened 
custard, over the cakes, and fill the mould not 
more than three-quarters full. Steam the cake (see 
No. 8) for about an hour and a half, turn it out 
of the mould on to a dish, and serve hot, surrounded 
with some sweet sauce. (See Sweet Sauce.) 

This is an expensive pudding, but cooks should 
remember the idea, and invent puddings cheaper 
on the same principle. For instance — sprinkle a 
buttered mould with currants, fill up wdtli stale 
bread, and pour in a sweet custard, and proceed as 



AT SMALL COST. • ' 123 

directed. The most common mistake in making this 
pudding is putting in too much sponge cake. This 
swells. One sponge cake and a half is sufficient 
for a pint of custard. A plain, round basin, nicely 
ornamented with cut stars of citron and preserved 
cherries, looks better than a mould. 

Cake, Plum. — Mix a pinch of salt and a dessert- 
spoonful of baking-powder with one pound of flour. 
Hub into this a quarter of a pound of good beef- 
dripping, and add a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
and half a pound of picked and dried currants, a 
quarter of an ounce of finely-minced lemon-peel, 
and half a nutmeg grated. Make the mixture into 
a stiff* dough with new milk, pour it into a l)uttered 
tin, and bake immediately for about an hour. 
Probable cost, lOd. Suflicient for a moderate-sized 
cake. 

Cake, Plum, Plain, made with Baker's Dough. — 

Those who are not in the habit of making bread at 
home often find it difficult to make dough. This 
difficulty may be easily overcome if they will 
procure a little dough from the baker's, and proceed 
as follows : — Take two pounds of dough. Put it 
at once into a basin, cover with a thick cloth, and 
let it rise. Place it on a floured paste-board, 
sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of baking-powder, 
and add a quarter of a pound of lard or butter 
broken into small pieces, a quarter of a pound of 
moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, 
a quarter of a pound of w^ashed and dried currants, 
a few caraway seeds, if liked, and a grated nutmeg. 
Knead thoroughly with as much lukewarm milk as 
is necessary. Butter some tins ; half fill them 



124 CHOICE DISHES 

with the dough, place them on the hearth until 
the dough has risen so that they are three parts 
fall, then bake the cakes in a well-heated oven. 
Plunge a knife into the middle of each ; when it 
comes out clean they are done enough. Time to 
bake, one to two hours, according to the size 
of the tins. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for 
three small cakes. 

Cake, Plum, Rich. — Put a pound and a half of 
butter into a good-sized bowl, and beat it to a cream. 
(See No. 27.) Mix with it the whites of eight fresh 
egg?, (see 15) whisked to a froth, and afterwards 
the yolks well beaten, and add a dessertspoonful 
of salt, a pound of powdered sugar, a pound and 
a half of flour, two pounds of currants washed, 
picked, and dried, eight ounces each of candied 
lemon and citron cut into narrow strips, half an 
ounce of mixed spices, consisting of nutmeg, 
cinnamon, and allspice, all pounded to a powder, 
half a pound of almonds, blanched (see Almonds, 
To Blanch) and pounded, the rind of four oranges 
rubbed upon three or four lumps of sugar and then 
powdered. Add each ingredient separately, and 
beat it well in before adding another. A wine- 
glassful of brandy may be stirred in if liked. If 
this cake is to be light, it should be beaten fully 
three quarters of an hour. Line a tin with double 
folds of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and 
bake the cake in a moderate oven. Put twelve 
folds of paper under the cake, and four or five on 
the top of it, to prevent it burning. Time to bake, 
three hours if made in one cake, one hour and a 
half each if made into two. Probable cost, 5s. 6d., 



AT SMALL COST. 125 

without the brandy. Sufficient for one large or 
two small cakes. 

. Cake, Pound. — One pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, eio-ht eggs, and a little salt. Rub some 
of the sugar on the rind of an orange or lemon. 
Beat the butter to a cream (see No. 27) ; then add 
the sugar pounded, the flour, and the eggs gradually, 
and a pinch of salt. When it is all thoroughly 
mixed, pour it into a m- ell-buttered mould, or, still 
better, into a hoop lined with well-buttered paper, 
and bake. (See No 4.) 

A variety of cakes may be made by adding to 
the above — currants, stoned raisins, almonds, can- 
died peel, preserved cherries, pistachio-kernels, ^'^c. 

If you wish to have the cake very good and rich, 
a wineglassful of brandy can be added to the above 
quantity. 

Cake, Seed. — No. 1. Eub six ounces of sweet 
dripping into a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, 
a teaspoonful of mixed spice, a tablespoonful of 
caraway seeds, and six ounces of sugar. Mix the 
dry ingredients thoroughly. Dissolve a teaspoon- 
ful of carbonate of soda into half a pint of milk, 
add a teaspoonful of vinegar, and stir it into the 
cake. Beat the cake well, put it into a buttered 
hoop, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. 
Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 4d. i)er 
pound. Sufficient for a moderate-sized cake. 
No. 2. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into 
three pounds of flour ; add half a teaspoonful of 
salt, three heaped teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
two teaspoonfuls of mixed spice, two ounces Df 
caraway seeds, a pinch of powdered mace or grated 



126 CHOICE DISHES 

nutmeg, eight ounces of sugar, and two ounces of 
candied peel choj^ped small. Mix the dry in- 
gredients thoroughly. Beat them to a paste with 
a pint of milk, and bake in a Avell-heated oven. 
Time to bake, three quarters of an hour to one 
hour. Probable cost, 5d. per pound. Sufficient 
for two moderate-sized cakes. No. 3. Hub six 
ounces of butter into a pound of flour, add a pinch 
of salt, six ounces of moist sugar, and two table- 
spoonfuls of caraway seeds. Mix the dry in- 
gredients thoroughly. Dissolve a small dessert- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda in a tablespoonful of 
milk. Add this to as much milk as will make up 
half a pint altogether, stir the milk to two well- 
beaten eggs, and afterwards beat the whole into the 
cake. Put the mixture into a buttered tin, and 
bake in a moderately-heated oven. A little spice 
and candied peel can be added, if approved. Time 
to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. 
Sufficient for a moderate-sized cake. No. 4. Pub 
six ounces of butter into three quarters of a pound 
of flour, add a pinch of salt, five ounces of the 
best moist sugar, and a dessertspoonful of caraway 
seed. Dissolve half a small teaspoonful of soda in 
a teaspoonful of hot milk. Beat this up with two 
eggs already well whisked, and stir the whole into 
the cake. Put the mixture into a buttered tin, 
and bake in a moderately-heated oven. Time to 
bake, from thirty to forty minutes. Cost, 9d. per 
pound. 

Cake, Seed, made from Dough. — No. 1. Take 
a quartern of dough left from making bread. If 
procured from the baker's, set it in a basin, covered 



AT SMALL COST. 127 

with a cloth, before the fire to rise. Beat half 
a pound of butter or dripping to cream (see No. 27) ; 
work this into the dough, and add three quarters 
of a pound of moist sugar, an ounce of caraway 
seeds, and a well-beaten egg. Knead the dough 
well ; put it into one large or two moderate-sized 
buttered baking-tins, let it stand before the fire 
to rise, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time, 
about two hours for one cake. Probaljle cost, if 
made with dripping, about 4d. a pound. Ko. 2. 
Take a quartern of dough, spread it out on a 
pastry-board, and slice half a pound of lard, butter, 
or dripping over it. Sprinkle on it a heaped tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, add eight ounces of 
moist sugar, two ounces of caraway seeds, and two 
ounces of finely-shred candied peel. Knead the 
dough till the ingredients are thoroughly blended. 
Set it before the fire to rise for a short time, put it 
into greased tins, and bake in a well-heated oven. 
Time to bake, one to two hours, according to the 
size of the cakes. No. 3. Take a quartern of dough, 
spread it on a floured pastry-board, slice half a 
pound of fresh butter upon it, and work this in, 
together with a teaspoonful of salt, half an ounce 
of caraway seeds, half a pound of good moist 
sugar, and six eggs put in singly. When the 
ingredients are thoroughly blended, put the dough 
into two or more well-buttered tins, and place 
them before the fire for a short time. When 
the dough is light, put the cakes in a well-heated 
oven, and bake until they are done enough. 
Spices, such as powdered cinnamon, coriander 
seeds, mace, nutmeg, &c., may be added to these 
cakes, if liked. 



128 CHOICE DISHES 

Cake, Sponge. — SjDonge cake is made like pound 
cake, only with half the quantity of flour, and no 
butter, and the eggs are broken, separating the 
whites from the yolks. (No. 15.) Mix the yolks 
in with the sugar, flour, &c., and beat the whites 
to a stiff froth by themselves ; then mix the 
froth to the rest of the mixture as lightly as 
possible, and bake as before. Sponge cake is of 
course much lighter, and allowance must be made 
in baking for its swelling. The mould, therefore, 
should not be nearly filled. This requires a very 
brisk oven. (See No. 4.) 

Cakes, General Remarks on. — In making cakes, 
great care should be taken that everything which 
is used should be perfectly dry, as dampness in the 
materials is very likely to produce heaviness in the 
cake. It is always best to have each ingredient 
properly prepared before beginning to mix the 
cake. 

Currants should be put into a colander and cold 
water poured over them two or three times, then 
spread upon a dish and carefully looked over, 
so that any little pieces of stone or stalk may be 
removed. The dish should then be placed before 
the fire, and the currants turned over frequently 
until they are quite dry. 

Butter should be laid in cold water befoi'e it 
is used, and, if salt, should be washed in several 
waters. It should be beaten in a bowl till it is 
reduced to a cream. (See No. 27.) 

Flour. — The flour for cakes should be of the 
best quality. It should be weighed after it is sifted 
and dried. 



AT SMALL COST. 129 

Eggs. — Each egg should always be broken into a 
cup before it is put to the others (see No. 15), 
as this will prevent a bad one spoiling the rest. 
The yolks and whites should be separated, and 
the egg carefully smelt. The string in each egg 
should also be carefully removed. The yolks may 
be beaten with a fork till they are light and frothy, 
but the wdiites must be whisked till they are one solid 
froth, and no liquor remains at the bottom of the 
bowl. The eggs should be put in a cool place 
till required for use. When the whites only are to 
be used, the yolks, if unbroken, and kept covered, 
will keep good for three or four days. Still it is 
always best to use them at once. They will make 
an excellent Custard. (See Custard.) 

Sugar. — Loaf sugar is the best to use for cakes ; 
it should be pounded and sifted. 

Lemon. — Peel should be cut very thin, as the 
white, or inner side, Avill impart a bitter flavour to 
the cakes. 

A Imonds for cakes should be blanched by being 
put into boiling Avater ; and when they have been 
in a few minutes the skin should be taken off, and 
the almonds thrown into cold water to preserve 
the colour. If they are pounded, a few drops 
of water, rose-water, or white of egg should be 
added in every two or three minutes, to prevent 
them oiling. If they are not pounded they should 
be cut into thin slices, or divided lengthwise. 

Milk. — Swiss condensed milk will be found to 
be excellent for cakes when either cream or milk is 
wanted ; but when it is used less sugar will be 
required. 
J 



130 CHOICE DISHES 

Yeast. — When yeast is used for cakes, less butter 
and eggs are required. 

Baking Poivder. — Nearly all plain cakes will be 
made lighter by tlie addition of a little baking- 
powder. 

Moulds for cakes should be thickly buttered, and 
it is a good plan to place some well-oiled paper 
between the mould and the cake. 

Baking. — Small cakes require a quick oven 
when they are first put in, to make them rise, but 
the heat should not be increased after they have 
begun to bake. Large cakes should be put into a 
moderate oven, in order that they may be well 
baked in the middle before they are overdone on 
the outside. In order to ascertain if a cake is 
sufficiently baked, insert a skewer or knitting- 
needle into the centre of it, and if it comes out 
perfectly clean, the cake is sufficiently ready, but 
if anything is sticking to it, the cake must be put 
back into the oven at once. Cakes should be 
gently turned out of the mould when ready, placed 
on the top of the oven to dry, then laid on their 
sides to cool. They should be kept in a cool place, 
and in tin canisters, closely covered. A cake 
keeps better when made without yeast. 

Calf's Brains. — Perhaps the most common form 
of serving calf's brains is with half a tongue, when 
the calf's head is boiled separately. In this case^ 
put what brains you have sent with the head to 
soak at once in some water rendered rather acid 
by vinegar. Boil the brains in salt and water for 
about twenty minutes, drain them off, and chop 
them up with some chopped parsley and mixed 



AT SMALL COST, 131 

herbs containing marjoram. (See Herbs, Mixed.) 
Add a little butter, pepper, and salt, and a little 
lemon-juice. Place the boiled tongue in the centre 
of the dish, and, surround it Avith the brains. 

Calf's Brains and Black Butter. — When you use 
the head for making soup, the calf's brains make a 
most delicious entree, as follows : — Soak the brains 
in vinegar and water, and place some thyme in 
the pickle. Fry some roimd pieces of bread, the 
size round of a small teacup. Boil the brains for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Place some of the 
brains, after draining them, on each piece of fried 
bread, make a little hole in each piece of brain, and 
put a piece of red tongue in each. Pour the 
black butter over the entree, and serve hot. 

Calf's Feet, Stewed.— Calf's feet are best pre- 
pared at the butchers'. They require scalding and 
very careful cleaning. They are nice plain-boiled, 
with parsley and butter. They will make good 
jelly and good soup. Perhaps the nicest way is to 
have them stewed. Put, say, two feet, on to boil 
with half an onion in some water. They must stew 
gently for a long time, till they are perfectly 
tender, and the meat, so to speak, will melt in the 
mouth. The stewing will take several hours. 
Then take out the feet, and cut all the flesh from 
the bones. Put back the bones, and boil the stock 
briskly till it is reduced to half a pint, or even less. 
(No. 26.) Strain it off, and thicken it with two eggs 
well beaten up (see Ko. 14); add a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a 
glass of white wine, not sweet, or the juice of half 
a lemon. Serve the soft meat in this sauce, which 



132 CHOICE DISHES 

must not boil or it will curdle. Add the wine or 
lemon-juice the last thing of all. 

Calf's Feet Soup. (See Ox Foot.) 

Calf's Head, Boiled. — Get half a calfs head, 
scalded and skinned. This is best done at the 
butchers'. Soak it in cold salt and water ; remove 
the tongue and brains ; place it in hot w^ater, with 
an onion, a carrot, a turnip, and a head of celery. 
Boil till tender — about two and a half hours — and 
serve with parsley and butter sauce, which should 
not be poured over the head if you wish to make 
clear mock-turtle from the remains, but served 
separately. Chopped parsley can be sj^rinkled over 
the head, by way of garnish, as well as cut lemon. 
(See No. 29.) The tongue and brains should be 
served in a separate dish. (See Calf's Brains.) 
A piece of bacon or ham boiled, and served hot, 
usually accompanies calf's head. The liquor in 
which the head was boiled will make excellent mock- 
turtle soup. (See Mock Turtle.) Some chopped 
marjoram added to the parsley and butter sauce is 
a great improvement. 

Calf's Head, To Warm Up.— By for the best 
method of warming up calf's liead is to put the 
remains in the soup made from the liquor. It 
can, however, be cut up, and warmed up in the 
remains of the sauce ; or some of the best pieces 
may be Avarmed up in some rich brow^n gravy, a 
little tomato-sauce added — if possible, a few mush- 
rooms — a dessertspoonful of sherry ancl a few nicely- 
fried eggs; i.e., eggs browned both sides, served with 
it. This is known as " calf's head a la Tortue'' 



AT SMALL COST. 133 

Calf's Head, To Carve. — Commence by making 
long slices from end to end of the cheek, cutting 
quite through to the bone, according to the dotted 
lines from A to B. With each of these slices serve 
a cut of what is called the throat sweetbread, which 
lies at the fleshy part of the neck end. Cut also 
slices from C to d ; they are gelatinous and deli- 



CALF S HEAD FOR CARVING. 



eate, and serve small pieces with the meat. A 
little of the tongue and a spoonful of the brains 
are usually placed on each plate. The tongue is 
served on a separate plate, surrounded by the 
brains, and is cut across in rather thin slices. 
Some persons prefer the eye. It is removed by a 
circular cut marked by dotted lines at E. First 
put the knife in slanting at F, inserting the point 
at the part of the dotted line, and driving it into 
the centre under the eye ; then turn the hand 
round, keeping the circle of the dotted line with 
the blade of the knife, the point still in the centre. 



134 CHOICE DISHES 

The eye will come out entire, cone-sliaped at the 
under part, when the circle is completed by the 
knife. The lower jaw must next l^e removed, 
beginning at g ; and to do this properly the dish 
must be turned. The palate is also considered a 
dainty, and a little of it should always be offered to 
each person. 

Calf's Heart. (See Hearts.) 

Calf's Liver. (See Liver.) 

Calf's Sweetbreads. — These are generally very 
expensive. They should always be soaked in cold 
salt and water for some time, then j^arboiled and 
thrown into cold water. AVlien cold, they should 
be trimmed carefully. They can then be fried in 
egg and bread crumbs. (See No. 6 and No. 20.) 
They can be baked in the oven, and kept well 
basted. If not egg-and-bread-cruml)ed — and if not 
of a brown colour — pour over them some thick 
white sauce, such as Bechamel. If fried a nice 
brown, pour some sauce round them. Tomato 
sauce is excellent with sweetl)reads. Or a rich 
brown gravy can be used, or curry sauce. (See 
Sweetbreads.) 

Caper Sauce. — Caper sauce is generally served 
with boiled mutton or boiled fish. Take a small 
quantity — say, half a pint — of the liquor in which 
the meat or fish is boiled ; thicken it with a little 
Avhite thickening (see Nos. 11 and 12); add a 
dessertspoonful of chopped capers. To make caper 
sauce very good, add more chopped capers, and 
melt in more butter. Chopped pickled gherkins 
are a cheap substitute for capers. 



AT SMALL COST. 135 

Capsicums. — The skins of pickled or fresh capsi- 
cums are exceedingly valuable by way of garnishing. 

Caramel. (See No. 19.) 

Carp. — These fish, when caught in stagnant 
water, such as ponds, are poor and taste muddy. 
On the continent, when caught in streams, they 
are exceedingly good. Carp can be stewed (see 
Eels, Stewed, and proceed the same), or they can 
be stewed in a little claret flavoured with nutmeg. 
The claret, when the fish is done, should be thick- 
ened with corn-flour, and poured o^er the fish. The 
dregs of port wine and a little stock will do instead 
of claret. The greatest care, in England, must be 
taken in thoroughly cleansing the fish, which for 
the purpose is best boned. (See Fish, Fresh 
Water.) 

Carrot Jam. (See Jam). 

Carrot Soup. — Take some stock— three pints 
No. 3 or No. 4 Stock (see No. 10) — boil in it a 
couple of onions, some celery, and six or more 
carrots ; boil till tender, and rub all through a wire 
sieve. Season with pepper and salt. Two or three 
bay-leaves boiled with it is a great improvement. 
Sufficient carrots must be used to make the soup 
as thick as cream. 

High-class carrot soup is made by only using tlie 
red part of the carrot. 

Carrots, Boiled. — Wash and scrape, but do not 
peel them. (See No. 9.) Young carrots take 
twenty minutes to thirty minutes, according to size. 
Old carrots, the longer the better. 



136 CHOICE DISHES 

Cauliflower, Boiled. — Soak in salt and water for 
some time, boil (see ISTo. 9) ; time varies with size. 
Some persons serve butter sauce, or melted butter 
Avith cauliflower. 

Celery Sauce. — Take a large head of celery, place 
it in a stew-pan with, half an ounce of butter and 
a little stock. Greasy stock, No. 4 or No. 3 (see 
No. 10), will do, but the stock must be white. 
Stew till tender, and then rub through a wire 
sieve, and add an equal quantity of milk, boiled 
separately. A "suspicion" of nutmeg may be 
added, and a piece of lump sugar. A little cream 
is a great improvement, if only a tablespoonful. 
Celery sauce is served with boiled turkeys and 
boiled fowls, also wdth boiled rabbit. It also makes 
a nice entree with hard-boiled eggs. 

Celery Soup. — Take some No. 3 stock (see No. 
10), say one quart, and place in it one onion, and 
tw^o large heads of celery. Boil the celery till it is 
quite tender. 

The celery had better be cut up small first, and 
stewed in a little butter, and then boiled in the 
stock. Avoid the dark parts of the celery. 

Boil the stock away (see No. 29) till the celery 
becomes almost a pulp. Rub it all through a wire 
sieve, (see No. 21) and add it to a pint and a half 
of milk boiled separately ; boil a couple of bay- 
leaves in the milk. Flavour with pepper and 
salt. 

Celery, Stewed. — Cut the celery into pieces 
about four inches long. Stew^ it till tender in a 
little stock. Thicken the stock with a little white 



AT SMALL COST. 137 

thickening (see No. 12,) and serve the celery in it. 
Add a " suspicion " of nutmeg. 

Champagne Cup. (See Cups.) 

Char. — This makes an excellent "Water Souchet," 
i.e., it is very nice served plain in the water in 
which it is boiled. Cut the fish into fillets, boil 
the bones, <tc., in a little water slightly salted, 
strain it off and tlien boil the fillets of char in the 
water. Serve the fillets in the water in which it 
is boiled, throw into the water two or three sprigs 
of parsley, and serve thin brown bread and butter 
with it. 

Cheese and Macaroni. (See Macakoni.) 

Cheese Souffle. — This is a very nice way of 
serving up stale pieces of cheese. Grate the cheese, 
say, till you get a couple of tablespoonfuls. Mix 
this with a quarter of a pint of milk. Take 
two eggs and beat the white to a stiff froth, adding 
the yolks to the mixture, put in a little pepper and 
salt, and mix in the beaten white. Pour it into a 
buttered tin — a round cake-tin is best — and place 
it in a brisk oven. It will rise to four times the 
height it was when put in the tin. Serve as quickly 
as possible, as it commences to go down again 
directly it is taken out of the oven. Time to bake 
the above quantity, about twenty minutes. Wrap 
a dinner napkin folded, or a piece of ornamental 
paper, round the tin. 

It is best to have the napkin or paper ready, 
so that the hot tin can be dropped in it quickly. 
Enough for two persons, 



138 CHOICE DISHES 

Cheese, Stewed. — Place some pieces of stale 
cheese, cut up very small, in a tin with a little 
butter. Stir it about till all is mixed. Serve 
very hot in the tin. Some add a small quantity 
of ale or stout. 

Cheesecakes (Very Gooi). — Take a quarter of a 
pound of butter, six ounces of sugar, two lemons, 
four eggs, and two good-sized cold potatoes. Kub 
the sugar on the lemon before you cut the lemons, 
and rub off as much as you can of the outside rind. 
Then oil the butter in a basin in the oven, throw 
in the sugar to the hot butter, which will dissolve 
it. Get it smooth with a spoon. Squeeze the juice 
of the two lemons in, beat the eggs and mix in, and 
add enough cold potatoes to make the whole into a 
pulp, only don't add the potatoes till the sugar is 
thoroughly dissolved. Fill some pastry rolled 
out in tins with this mixture, and bake in the 
oven. 

This mixture will bake very nicely in a pie- 
dish without any pastry at all. It is cheap 
and delicious. The cheesecake can be made 
plainer by increasing the quantity of potatoes and 
sugar. 

Cheesecakes and Tartlets. — The origin of the 
word Cheesecake is, that originally, they were cakes 
made from the curds used for making cheese. 
Cheesecakes and Tartlets are made by placing 
various kinds of " sweet substances " in small 
round flat pieces of pastry baked in little tins. 
Whenever you liave any spare piece of pastry left 
over after making a pie, roll it out thin — an eighth 



AT SMALL COST. 139 

of an inch thick — and line a few little tartlet tins 
with it, and bake them in the oven. These can be 




TARTLET-TINS. 



filled after being taken out of their tins, or before, 
as directed. 

Cheesecakes, Lemon (Very Cheap). — Get a few 
pastry cases as above. Take one lemon and three 
ounces of sugar, rub the sugar on the rind, then 
put the sugar in a basin, in rather less than half a 
pint of hot water, squeeze in the juice, and place 
all in a saucepan to dissolve the sugar, thicken 
with a little arrowroot till it becomes a jelly, 
stirring all the time (see Ko. 13). Pour it on 
to a plate to get cold, and then with two forks 
break it into little pieces and fill the pastry 
cases. 

If you have many cases, thicken only one half at 
a time, and colour the second half red with some 
cochineal. The alternate pale yellow and red will 
look far better. 

Tartlets are simply little cases of pastry as above, 
filled with jam or any kind of preserve. When 
there are many, two different-coloured jams should 
be chosen, such as raspberry and apricot, or mar- 
malade and plum. Open jam tarts are really large 
tartlets. These cases are best half-ba.ked, then 



140 CHOICE DISHES 

filled, and little tliin strips of pastry the size of a 
wooden lucifer match laid across the jam by way of 




OPEN TART. 



ornament, like trellis work ; then put back in the 
oven to finish baking. 

Cherry Pie. (See Pie, Fruit.) 

Cherry Water Ice. (See Ice AYater Fruit.) 

Chicken. (See Fowl.) 

Chicken Broth. — This was once a famous receipt 
for invalids, but has since quite gone out of fashion. 
The bones of chickens make asgood broth as the flesh. 

Chicken Patties. (See Patties.) 

Chilies. — Chilies, pickled or fresh, are useful 
for garnishing, and also to add to hash and curries 
for those who like dishes very hot. (See Hash.) 

Chops. (See Mutton and Pork.) 

Christmas Plum Pudding. (See Plum Puddincx.) 

Christmas Pudding. (See Plum Pudding.) 

Cider Cup. (See Cups.) 

Claret Cup. (See Cups.) 

Cock-a-Leekie.^ — Cock-a-Leekie is a Scotch soup, 
in which a boiled chicken is cut up into small joints 
and served in some broth made with chicken and 
broiled leeks, A cheap way is to take the re- 



AT SMALL COST. 141 

mains of a cold fowl, cut the meat off the bones ; 
stew the bones in some No. 1 Stock (say, a quart) ; 
cut up a couple of leeks, well washed, into thin 
slices ; stew these in the soup, which should be 
clear ; add the remains of the meat, and serve. 
Flavour with a little pepper and salt. 

Cod, Boiled. — Wash and clean the fish. Boil in 
the usual way. (See No. 1.) As soon as the meat 
leaves the bone easily it is done. Boil the liver 
separately — in a frying-basket is best. If the li\'er 
is overboiled it is spoilt. Five minutes is enough 
for a piece of liver. Send the fish up on a napkin 
folded over a strainer. Put the liver by the side 
of the fish ; ornament with parsley and cut lemon, 
Serve with it oyster sauce or anchovy sauce, or 
butter sauce or oiled butter. Some nice floury 
boiled potatoes also should be sent to table wdth 
boiled codfish. 

Codfish, Fried. — Slices of codfish are very nice 
fried in batter. (See Batter ; also No. 6.) Fried 
parsley should be served with fried cod. Slices of 
cod can be fried quite plain, being simply peppered, 
salted, and floured. 




COLANDEKS. 



Colander. — The colander is a basin with handles, 
and perforated holes at the bottom and sides. It 



142 CHOICE DISHES 

is used for straining vegetal^les, Szc, and is brought 
into daily nse in almost every household. Colanders 
are made of tin and earthenware ; the tin ones are 
the more durable. Probable cost, Is. to 4s. 

Cold Meat, How to treat various ways. (See 
Meat.) 

Conger Eel. — Conger eel can be eaten plain, 
boiled with j)otatoes (see No. 1), or it can be cut 
in slices, and floured and fried (see No. 6), or can 
be egg-and-bread-crumbed (see ISTo. 20), and fried 
(No. 6) ; or it can be stufl'ed with veal stuffing (see 
Yeal Stuffing), and baked. It is very useful to 
make fish stock for soup maigre, when the best 
part of the flesh, freed from the little bones, which 
in this fish are very troublesome, can be added, or 
made into a separate dish. 

Corn-flour, for Invalids. — Proceed exactly as in 
arrowroot. (See Arrowroot.) 

Corn-flour Pudding, Baked. — Proceed exactly as 
in arrowroot pudding. (See Arrowroot Pudding.) 

Corn-flour Pudding, in a Mould. — Make a 
quart of sweetened milk, flavoured with lemon- 
peel, or essence of almonds, or orange-peel, or 
essence of vanilla, or bay-leaves, ttc, quite thick 
with corn-flour. (See No. 13.) Stir in a little 
piece of butter about as big as a walnut; this 
makes it smoother. Pour it into a mould, and 
when it is cold turn it out. A quart of milk takes 
about a tablespoonful and a half of corn-flour. 

Cow-heel Soup. (See Ox Foot.) 

Cowslip Wine. — This is a nice substitute for 
sherry, (fee, in making tipsy-cake for children. 



AT SMALL COST. 143 

Cranberry Tart. (See Pie, Fruit.) 
Cream Ice. (See Ice Cream.) 
Croquettes. (See Rissoles.) 

Cucumber, To Dress. — Cucumbers are never nice 
when stale, but can be kept fresh by the stalk end 
being kept in water, just as flowers may be pre- 
served for a time by similar means. To dress 
cucumber, first peel it very finely, or as much of it 
as is likely to be required ; then cnt it into very 
fine, thin slices, the thinner the better. Place 
these slices in a dish, with some good salad oil and 
a pinch of salt, and mix thoroughly with the oil, 
till every piece of cucumber is oiled ; then pepper 
the slices, and mix again, and add a very little 
vinegar at the last. Proportion of oil to vinegar, 
two tablespoonfuls of oil to half a tablespoonful of 
vinegar. It is essential that the oil be perfectly 
fresh and pure. Some people like a few slices of 
onion served with the cucumber. 

Cups. — In hot summer weather there are few 
drinks more refreshing than a deep draught out 
of a really good cup. Cups have the advantage 
of hiding the deficiencies of wines that are not 
altogether of the first quality — we will not say 
brand, as the two terms are not synonymous. Cups 
also are wine diluted, and in really thirsty weather 
can be therefore taken with greater impunity. 
Thirdly, they are far cheaper than wine alone. 

In making every kind of cup it is essential to 
have ice, and it will too often be found that the 
common habit is to add a large lump of ice to the 
cup itself, the result being that the cup gets 
gradually poorer and poorer. In making all kinds 



144 CHOICE DISHES 

of cup, whether claret, champagne, cider, ifec, it is 
always best to first mix or nearly mix the cup, and 
place the liquid in a jug or any vessel that can be 
covered over, and to stand this vessel in rough ice. 
The advantage of this is that the cup cools without 
deteriorating. 

Another important point is that many cups, such 
as claret, owe their refresliing briskness to soda or 
seltzer water being added to them. When this is 
the case, always leave this addition to the last 
moment before the cup is wanted for drinking. 
Were you to add the soda water to the claret, and 
then place all in ice for, say, an hour to cool, the 
cup itself would be as dead as if water onh% instead 
of soda water, had been added. 

Again, all sparkling cups, such as champagne. 
Moselle, cider, &c., should not be allowed to stand 
long before they are drank, as by so doing they 
lose all their sparkling properties. In any case, 
take care that the champagne. Moselle, cider, (fee, 
has been iced in the bottle before it is opened. 
Also, whenever soda water is used, let this be cold 
— not frozen — before it is opened. When all this 
is done there is no harm in adding a small lump of 
ic3 to float in the cup at the last moment, so long 
as you are sure that the ice is pure. 

Remember that filthy and stagnant water will 
freeze. A good deal of rough ice is exceedingly 
impure and injurious. 

A good deal of so-called Wenham Lake ice is 
really nothing more than rough ice. 

In all cups that require sweetening it is always 
best to have ready a little syrup. Indeed, it will 
b'3 found a great saving of time, when cups are 



AT SMALL COST. 145 

wanted often, to have a bottle of syrup. This is 
made by pouring boiling water on some sugar — 
1 lb. to a pint — and letting it get cold, and then 
pouring it off into a bottle. This syrup can be 
added gradually, and the cup can be tasted with a 
spoon, and it will be known at once when it is 
sweet enough. On the other hand, if the stupid 
fashion of throwing in some lumps of sugar hap- 
hazard be adopted, the probability is that the last 
half of the cup, owing to the sugar not having 
thoroughly dissolved at first, will be so sweet as to 
be scarcely drinkable. 

The late Mr. Francatelli, a very great authority 
on all matters of taste, recommended bruised 
sugar-candy to sweeten most kinds of cups. I 
regret to say I have never tried the receipt. 
He also recommended the addition of sugar to 
champagne. Moselle cup, &c. This is, of course, 
purely a matter of taste. Those who have drunk 
champagne abroad know how sweet indeed is the 
foreign tooth compared to the English. 

Claret Cup. — Pour a bottle of sound claret into 
a jug, add three slices of lemon, with all the pips 
previously removed, one thin strip of cucumber- 
peeling, the length of the little finger, and the 
thickness of the blade of a knife. Sweeten accord- 
ing to taste with some syrup. Add a winegiassful 
of brandy, a dessertspoonful of Maraschino, and 
place the jug in ice to get quite cold. Add also, if 
possible, a small bunch of balm, and another of 
borage. After letting this stand in ice for half 
an hour or more, strain it off into the " cup," grate 
a little nutmeg over the top, and add a bottle of 
iced soda-water, just before serving. 

K 



146 CHOICE DISHES 

N.B. — A ripe orange sliced up can be used 
instead of the lemon ; avoid, however, adding the 
two outside slices, as it is apt to make the cup 
bitter. 

Noyeau can be substituted for Maraschino. 
When there is no liqueur obtainable, two or three 
drops of essence of almonds added to the brandy- 
is almost as good as noyeau. 

The balm and borage are not absolutely indis- 
pensible. 

Champagne Cup. — Pour a bottle of iced cham- 
pagne into the cup ; add two slices of lemon-jDeel, 
one thin strip of cucumber, a small bunch of balm, 
and another of borage when obtainable. Add a 
teaspoonful of Maraschino, and a bottle of iced 
soda water. Put a small lump of ice in the cup. 

N.B. — Two or three slices of a ripe orange may 
be substituted for the lemon. 

Badminton Cup. — One bottle of sound Bur- 
gundy. Syrup to taste. One orange cut in slices, 
rind and all. A strip of cucumber-peel. A bunch 
of balm and another of borage. If possible, add 
to these a few leaves of verbena, and a wineglassful 
of Cura9ao. 

Let all this stand in a jug in the ice for an hour, 
then strain it off, add a bottle of iced soda-water, 
just before serving. 

Cider Cup. — Pour one quart of cider into a jug, 
add a bunch of balm, and another of borage, two 
or three slices of lemon, or an orange sliced up, 
avoiding the two outside slices. A little syrup 
can be added or not, according to the sweetness of 
the cider. Add also a good-sized glass of golden 
or brown sherry, a small glass of brandy, and a 



AT SMALL COST. 147 

teaspoonfiil of Maraschino. Let this stand and 
cool in the ice. The cider should be iced before 
the bottle is opened if it is sparkling cider. When 
quite cool, strain oflf. Add a very little grated 
nutmeg, and a bottle of iced soda-water. 

Beei' Ciqj. — Take a quart of strong Bass's Al 
Burton ale. Add to it a little brown sugar, about 
half an ounce, some grated ginger, and about half 
a grated nutmeg. Let this stand for about an 
hour, stirring occasionally. Then add a large 
piece of crust of bread, toasted a dark brown, 
similar to that used in making Toast and Water. 
Let this swim in the cup, which must not be iced. 
This cup is more suitable for winter than summer. 
It can be handed round with the cheese. 

Pineap2)le Cup. — Cut up a ripe pineapple into 
very thin slices, and add them to a bottle of iced 
champagne. Add also, if possible; a few verbena 
leaves, a dessertspoonful of Maraschino, and a bottle 
of iced soda-water. 

Moselle Cvp. — Proceed exactly as in making- 
Champagne Cup, with the exception of no cucumber- 
peel. Orange cannot be substituted for lemon. 
The lemon must be fresh and hard. 

Hock Cup)' — One bottle of Hock, a bunch of 
balm and another of borage, two or three slices 
of lemon, or five or six of orange, a small glass of 
brandy, and a teaspoonful of Maraschino. Also a 
very little syrup can be added. Let all stand and 
get quite cold in a jug, then strain oflf, and add one 
or two bottles of iced soda-water before serving. 

Currant Dumpling. — Proceed exactly as in 
making suet dumplings (see Suet Dumplings), 



148 CHOICE DISHES 

wifcli the exception of mixing a quarter of a pound 
of dried currants to every half pound of flour. 
Pick the currants free from the stalks. 

Currant Jam. (See Jam.) 

Currant Jelly, Black. (See Jelly.) 

Currant Jelly, Red. (See Jelly.) 

Currant Pudding, Fresh. (See Pudding, 
Fruit.) 

Currant Water Ice. (See Ice Water Fruit.) 

Currants for Dessert. — Red, black, and white 
currants for dessert can be crystallised as follows : — 
Moisten the currants in a little weak gum — one 
lump of gum arable dissolved in a wineglassful of 
water, or one white of an egg beaten up in a wine- 
glassful of water ; then cover the currants with 
powdered sugar, and let them dry on paper. The 
effect is ver}^ pretty. The currants can be strung 
or crystallised in the bunch. If you string the 
currants, after they are crystallised place them on a 
dessert dish as follows : Fii'st, some clean green 
leaves, such as vine leaves ; then the red currants 
spread out ; next, a pile of white currants on the 
top of the red, leaving a red border ; next, a small 
heap of black currants on the top, to complete the 
pyramid. 

Curry. — Curry is meat, or fish, or indeed any 
kind of food, served up in a sauce made with' 
curry powder or paste. This paste or powder is 
usually bought ready-made. It is composed of 
various spices and colouring matter, and is very 



AT SMALL COST. 149 

liot. Curry is a favourite dish in hot climates, 
especially India. 

Curry Sauce. — Take six large onions. Peel 
them, and slice them, and fry them of a nice brown 
colour in a frying-pan, using about two ounces 
of butter. Next, take two sour apples, about 
the same size as the onions, or rather larger, peel 
them, cut them up, and carefully remove the core. 
Add these pieces of apple to the fried onions in the 
frying-pan, and also a pint of good Stock No. 3. 

Let it all simmer till tender ; then add a dessert- 
spoonful of Captain White's Curry Paste and a 
dessertspoonful of curry powder. 

Rub the whole through a wire sieve (see No. 21), 
and if not sufficiently thick, add a little brown 
thickening. (See No. 12.) Make whatever meat 
has to be curried hot in this sauce, and, if possible, 
warm up two or three bay-leaves (whole) in it, 
sending the bay-leaves to table in the curry. 

If you have no curry paste, you must u?e an 
extra quantity of curry pow^der. 

If the curry powder be old and poor, add a 
teaspoonful of some fresh powdered coriander 
•seeds ; these can be got from any chemist. 

When you curry fish you can use fish stock, 
and less onion. Bay-leaves are always a great 
improvement made hot in the sauce ancl kept in it. 
These should never be forgotten where there is 
a bay-tree. 

Curry sauce can be varied in flavour by adding 
grated cocoa-nut ; and for Indian palates cayenne 
should be added, as well as chilies served up in it 
whole. 



150 CHOICE DISHES 

Boiled rice should always accompany curry, and 
should be served on a separate dish. This is best 
on all grounds, including the important one of the 
remains of the curry and rice being so easily served 
up again — say, a little left for breakfast. 

Meat should be cut up small, the fat not for- 
gotten; or, better still, when possible, the meat or 
fish shredded. For first-class curry, the meat or 
fish should be cooked esiDCcially for it. Meat 
warmed up is only a makeshift. 

Custard. — Take a pint of milk, boil it and 
sweeten it; thicken it with four, or still better 
five, eggs Avell beaten up. (See No. 14.) Custard 
can be flavoured by boiling bay-leaves in the milk, 
or by adding essence of vanilla, or of almonds. 
The sugar may be rubbed on lemon-peel. A little 
brandy may be added, and a little grated nutmeg 
on the top in any case, whatever the flavouring. 

Oustard Pudding, Boiled and Baked. — Instead 
of thickening as above, the mixture can be boiled 
in a basin (see 24), or baked in the oven. In this 
case the mixture will set, and not be liquid. 

Cutlets. — A cutlet is really a small piece of 
meat. A cutlet can be grilled, or fried, or cooked 
wrapped up in paper. Cutlets can be cooked plain, 
or dressed. They can be served with almost an 
infinite variety of sauces. 

Cutlets, Plain. — Cutlets are sometimes grilled 
quite plain on the gridiron, especially mutton 
cutlets. (See ISTo. 5.) 

Cutlets, Dressed Ordinary. — The ordinary method 
of dressing cutlets is to egg-and-bread-crumb them. 



AT SMALL COST. 151 

(See No. 20.) In doing this, pepper and salt the 
cutlets before flouring them. In the ease of veal 
cutlets it is an improvement to sift some mixed 
sweet herbs (see Herbs) over the raw meat as 
well. 

Mutton cutlets are best boned and egg-and-bread- 
crumbed (see No. 20). If the fat be sufficiently- 
hot they will not take more than thirty seconds to 
fry (see No. 6), if cut thin (three-eighths of an 
inch thick). They should then have a rich brown 
colour. 

Lamb cutlets will take a few seconds longer to 
cook than mutton. 

Veal cutlets will take double the time of mutton 
cutlets. 

If the veal cutlet is large, and an inch thick, the 
fat must not be too hot, and plenty of time allowed 
— perhaps fifteen minutes. 

All cutlets, especially small ones, should be sent 
to table very quickly after being cooked. 

When cutlets are not boned, have ready little 
tiny paper frills to tie round the bone. 

The l3est part of the meat for all cutlets is the 
loin. The fillet part only is best for veal, but any 
little piece of raw meat will make a nice cutlet 
when cut thin. You cannot cook cutlets when 
small unless the fat is very hot. The bread-crumbs 
must brown nicely in thirty seconds. 

You cannot warm up cutlets without spoiling 
them. The best way to serve cold cutlets is to 
arrange them neatly in a dish, with some vegetable 
salad in the middle — such as mixed cold boiled 
carrot, turnip, ttc, cut up in neat little pieces. 
(See Macedoixes.) 



152 CHOICE DISHES 

Dabs. — Dabs are small flat fish caught near the 
sea. They are best fried quite plain (see No. 6), 
or boiled, and sent to table in the water in which 
they were boiled. (See Flounders, Souchet.) 

Damson Jam. (See Jam.) 

Damson Pudding. (See Pudding, Fruit.) 

Damson Tart. (See Pie, Fruit.) 

Davil, To. — To devil anything is to make it very 
hot by means of cayenne pepper, ordinary pepper, 
mustard, ttc, as well as by fire. Cold meat is 
devilled by sprinkling it with mixed cayenne, black 
pepper, and salt; then rubbing the meat with 
French mustard, and making it hot through over a 
gridiron. Sometimes the pepper, &c., is mixed 
with butter, the meat sliced in gashes, and the 
mixture inserted in the gaslies ; tlien grilled. 

Drumsticks of fowls should be cut in gashes 
longways, the mixture inserted — say, French 
mustard and cayenne — then buttered, and grilled. 

Dsvil Sauce. — Mix a dessertspoonful of ordinary 
made mustard with an ounce of oiled butter ; add 
cayenne and black pepper to taste. Mix thoroughly, 
and pour over a chop or any grilled meat. This 
sauce gets thicker as it cools. 

Devil Sauce (another way). — Fry some chopped 
onion, or, far better, some chopped spring onions in 
a little butter till nearly brown, add a dessert- 
spoonful of Harvey's sauce, and let it boil away, 
or rather evaporate, for a few minutes ; then add 
a quarter of a pint of water, or, still better, stock, 
a teaspoonf ul of extract of meat, half a saltspoonful 



AT SMALL COST. 153 

of cayenne pepper, a little black pepper, thicken 
slightly with a little corn-flour (see No. 13), and 
pour over a chop or any grilled meat. Mix the 
sauce well, and serve the chopped onions in the 
sauce. 

Dripping. — Great care should be taken of the 
dripping from all kinds of meat, either roasted or 
baked. Beef -dripping makes a very nice '-buttered " 
toast. In roasting or baking joints of any size, it 
is best to take away some of the dripping before 
the joint has done cooking, as, if exposed to heat 
long it is apt to turn colour. 

To clarify dripping, pour the hot dripping into 
boiling water, and stir it up, and let all get cold. 
When cold take off the cake of dripping, and 
scrape the bottom where the dirt has settled. 

Dutch Sauce. — Thicken a little butter sauce (see 
Butter Sauce) with the yolks of two eggs. (See 
No. 14.) Take care the yolks don't curdle. Add 
a little lemon-juice the last thing, and very little 
grated nutmeg. A quarter of a pint of butter 
sauce to two yolks, and rather more than a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. 

Duck, Roast. — This universal favourite requires 
no praise. AYithout enterin;:^ into the question of 
the best duck, we say at once, take a young farm- 
yard duck fattened at liberty, but cleansed by 
being shut up two or three days and fed on barley- 
meal and water. Two small young ducks make a 
better dish than a large, handsome, hard-fleshed 
drake, which, as a rule, is best fit for a stew. If 
the poulterer does not prepare the duck, it must be 



154 CHOICE DISHES 

plucked, singed, and emptied ; the feet scalded, 
skinned, and twisted round on the back of the 
bird ; head, neck, and pinions cut off, the latter at 
the lirst joint, and all skewered firmly to give the 
breast a nice plump appearance. For the stuffing, 
take half a pound of onions, a teaspoonful of 
powdered sage, three tablespoonfuls of bread- 
crumbs, the liver of duck parboiled and minced 
with pepper, salt, and cayenne. (See Sage-and- 
Onion Stuffing.) Cut the onions very fine after 
parboiling them, and add the bread-crumbs, minced 
liver, sage, pepper and salt to taste ; mix, and put 
it inside the duck. This quantity is for one duck ; 
more onion and sage may be added, but we re- 
commend the above as a delicate compound not 
likely to disagree with the stomach. Let the duck 
be hung a day or two, according to the weather, to 
make the flesh tender. Roast before a brisk clear 
fire (see No. 3), baste often, and dredge Avith flour 
to make the bird look frothy. Serve with a good 
brown gravy (see Gravy) served separate, in a 
tureen. A very little may be poured over the bii'd, 
and apple sauce (see Apple Sauce) in another 
tureen. Time : ducks, three-quarters of an hour 
to an hour ; ducklings, twenty-five to thirty-five 
minutes. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. each. Sufficient, 
two ducks for seven or eight persons. 

Duck, Roast, To Carve. — A young duckling 
should be carved in the same way as a fowl, the 
leg and wing being taken off, first of all, on either 
side. (See Fowl, Roast, To Carve.) A full-sized 
bird should be carved like a goose. First cut slices 
from the breast, in the direction indicated in the 



AT SMALL COST. 155 

figure by the dotted lines from A to B. The first 
slices are to be cut close to the wing ; then proceed 
upwards towards the breast-bone. The legs and 
wings may afterwards be attacked. An opening is 




EOAST DUCK. 



to be made, shown by the dotted line c, to get at 
the stuffing. 

Duck, Wild. (See Wild Duck.) 

Dumplings, Plain. (See Suet.) 

Eels, Boiled, or Water Souchet of Eels. — Boil 
the eels till tender, and serve them in the water in 
which they were boiled, after carefully skimming 
and straining. Throw in one or two sprigs of 
parsley, and serve thin brown bread and butter 
with them. 

Eels, Fried. — Skin and wash the eel. If large, 
take out the bone. Cut the eel into pieces about 
three inches long. Egg-and-bread-crumb (see No. 
20), and fry (see No. 6). Eels can also be fried 
without being egg-and-bread-crumbed, but simply 
floured, 

Eels, Stewed. — Cut the eels into pieces about 
three inches long ; stew them gently in a little 



156 CHOICE DISHES 

No. 3 Stock and a teaspoonful of sweet herbs. 
"When quite tender, take out the eels and strain 
the stock. Season it with a little pepper and salt 
and a dessertspoonful of ketchup ; also, if possible, 
some port- wine dregs. Add also a little finely- 
chopped parsley. Thicken the stock with a little 
brown thickening ; skim ofi" any fat ; warm up the 
eels in the stock ; and serve with some fried 
bread. A few small mushrooms are a great im- 
* provement. 

Egg-balls for Soup. — Powder some hard-boiled 
yolks of egg ; then moisten with some raw yolk, 
till you can roll the mixture into a ball. Roll up 
into balls the size of small marbles, dip into flour, 
and throw into boiling water till set ; then drain, 
and throw them into the soup before serving. 
Some chopped parsley can be mixed with the 
egg- 
Egg Sandwiches. — These are the best sand- 
wiches for travelling, (/ut some thin bread and 
butter. Sprinkle these on the buttered side with 
mustard and cress. Cut some hard-boiled eo^ors into 
thin slices ; cover one side of bread and butter, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and cover the other 
over it. Trim the edges with a sharp knife, and 
cut into nice little triangular pieces. Wrap up the 
sandwiches in lettuce-leaves and then in paper, if 
wanted for travelling. 

Egg Sauce. — Make some butter sauce (see But- 
ter sauce), and, if for fish, use the fish stock (see 
No. 1 0, Stock No. 5) for the sauce. Cut up some 
hard-boiled eggs into little pieces, and warm them 



AT SMALL COST. 157 

up in the sauce. The eggs shoukl be cut up very 
tine, but not quite minced. 

Eggs (a la Bonne Femme). — Get six eggs of the 
same size, large ones, boil them ten minutes, and, 
when cool enough, remove the shells carefully. 
Divide them equally in halves, take out the yolks, 
and cut from each the pointed tip of wliite, that 



EGGS (a la bonne FEMME). 

they may stand flatly. Make tiny dice of some 
cold chicken, ham, boiled beetroot, and the yolks of 
the eggs. Fill the hollows with these up to the 
brim, and pile the dice high in the centre — two of 
ham and chicken, or separately, two of boiled beet- 
root, and two with the hard yolks. Arrange some 
neatly-cut lettuce on a dish, and place the eggs 
amongst it. Sufficient for three persons. 

Eggs (a la Tripe). — Cut half a dozen onions in 
slices, let them fall into rings, and fry them in 
butter, without browning them. Take them up 
and put them aside. Mix a spoonful of flour with 
the butter to make a paste, and add milk cr broth 



158 CHOICE DISHES 

to make a smooth thick sauce. Put in the onions, 
and stew them gently till tender. Remove the 
shells from some hard-boiled eggs, slice the white 
parts, and leave the yolks whole. Put the whites, 
sliced also into rings, and add them to the sauce 
with the onions till hot. Serve in a hot dish, and 
garnish with the uncut egg-yolks. 



"Eggs and Spinach. — Boil some spinach (see 
Spinach), and, when placed in the dish, place some 
poached eggs on the top, or hard-boiled eggs, hot 
(the shells being removed), and cut into halves. 
Press the halves of the hard-boiled eggs into the 
spinach, to make them stand on end. 

Eggs, Boiled. — Put the eggs carefully into boil- 
ing water, and boil for three minutes — a few 
seconds more or less as they are liked hard or 
soft. Eggs are always best boiled in the room. 
New-laid eggs, fresh from the nest, look milky 
when open. These are eggs in perfection, but rarely 
to be met with in the present day. 

Eggs, Curried. — Cut some hard-boiled eggs in 
halves. Cut off the white end sufficiently to make 
them stand upright. Pour some curry sauce round 
them. (See Curry Sauce.) 

Eggs, Devilled. — Cut some hard-boiled eggs — 
say, half a dozen — into halves. Pemove the yolk, 
and cut the end off each white cup, so that it will 
stand upright. Pound the yolks in a basin with 
some butter, till they are smooth and moist enough 
to be formed into shape. Add a dessertspoonful of 
anchovy sauce and a saltspoonful of cayenne 



AT SMALL COST. 159 

pepper. Fill the cups with this mixture, and pile 
it up. 

These can be eaten hot or cold, but are, I think, 
best cold. This is an excellent supper dish. 

Eggs, Fried. — Just as in making an omelet it is 
absolutely essential to have a clean frying-pan, so, 
in frying eggs, a new, or at any rate a clean, un- 
bui-nt frying-pan must be used. Break the eggs 
separately into a cup. (See Xo. 15.) Moisten the 
frying-pan with a little butter, lard, bacon fat, or 
dripping, but only a little. Fiy the eggs gently, 
and take care they don't stick. As soon as the 
white is set, take them out carefully with a slice. 
If you put too much fat in the pan, bubbles will 
rise under the e^^s. 

N.B. — For some entrees ornamented with fried 
eggs, the eggs are "really fried" — i.e., '"boiled in 
fat." For this purpose the fat should be not less 
than four inches deep. The eggs are then slightly 
brov/n all over, like a ball. 

Eggs, Hard-boiled. — Place the eggs in cold 
water in a saucepan, bring the water to a boil, and 
let the eggs boil for ten minutes after the water 
comes to the boiling-point. Take out the eggs, and 
let them get cold in cold water. When cold remove 
the outer shell, but do not cut up hard-boiled eggs 
for garnishing purposes till close upon the time 
they are wanted, as the yolk dries up, and very 
soon gets discoloui-ed. 

Eggs, Poached. — Break the eggs (see ISTo. 15) 
separately into a cup. Let them slide gently into 
some boiling water wiiich has two or three drops of 



IGO CHOICE DISHES 

vinegar in it. Take the eggs out directly the 
whites have set with a slice, trim the edges, and 
place them on hot buttered toast. Eggs are some- 
times conveniently poached in a frying-pan. Eggs, 
when poached in quantity, are apt to run together. 

"Eggs Poached in Gravy. — Poach the eggs in 
gravy instead of water. Serve them in their 
gravy, if clear. Or, poach the eggs in water, and 
serve with rich gravy poured round. 

Eggs, To Thicken with. (See No. U.) 

Eggs, Whisked. — A common wire whisk, as 
represented in the engraving, is the best for this 
purpose. Break the eggs to be whisked separately 
(the yolks from the whites), and remove the thread 
from each one with a fork before conmiencinc^ to 



EGG WHISKS. 



whisk. Beat the yolks till they are light, and the 
whites till no liquid remains in the bowl : they 
should be a strong solid froth. Experience, how- 
ever, IS the best guide for this process. No time 
can be specified, as much depends on the steadiness 
of the person manipulating. 

Endive. — This is useful as a salad for winter. 



AT SMALL COST. IGl 

It should be carefully washed, and dressed as an 
ordinary salad. (See Salad, To Dress.) 

Fish, Cold, To Re-dress. — Any kind of cold fish 
can be warmed up, after all the bones have been 
removed, in the remains of the sauce served with 
them. The fish should be cut up small, placed 
in saucers or scallop shells, some bread crumbs 
and raspings shaken over the top, and a few 
little pieces of butter on them, and the whole 
warmed up in the oven. Season with pepper and 
salt. 

Cold fish can always be warmed up in some 
^urry sauce (see Curry Sauce), or fish sauce from 
bones. (See Flsh Sauce.) 

Fish, Fresh-water, of all kinds. — Fresh-water 
fish are in many parts of the country veiy 
abundant, and are too often neglected as an article 
of food. The probable reason of this is, first, cooks 
do not like the trouble of cleaning the fish, and, 
secondly, suffer from the common error of vulgar 
minds that what costs nothing is consequently good 
for nothing. 

In many parts of the country, fresh-water fish 
are caught /or sport, and then thrown away. 

A very nice way of cooking nearly every kind of 
fresh-water fish is to stew them in a little Bordeaux 
wine, either red or white, with a little onion, or, 
better still, garlic, some thyme, bay-leaf, parsley, 
and sometimes a little carrot, cut up. Stew the 
fish till done, basting it in the liquor, and turning 
it. Then take out the fish, bringing the sauce to the 
boil. Strain it, leaving in the cut-up carrot, skim 
it, thicken with butter and flour, or arrowroot (see 

L 



162 CHOICE DISHES 

Nos. 12 and 13), make hot, and pour over the fish. 
Season first with pepper and salt. A little soy 
may be added. 

The sauce can be thickened, also, with corn-flour 
(see No. 13), or white or brown roux. (See 
No. 12.) 

Fish Sauce, from Pish Stock. — The best fish 
sauce for fish is made from the liquor in which the 
fish was boiled, or, still better, from fish stock made 
by boiling the fish bones, trimmings, fins, &c. (See 
Butter Sauce.) Boil down tlie fish stock from 
the bones, adding a slice of onion, a little parsley, 
as if for ordinary stock. Boil aAvay (see No. 26), 
till about half a pint is left. Strain it off', add a 
little extract of meat, a little soy, a little brown 
thickening (see No. 12), and a little mushroom 
ketchup. A teaspoonful of port- wine dregs will 
improve it. This is an admirable fish sauce for all 
baked fish that have been stuffed with veal stuffing. 
Extract of meat is not essential. Butter and 
dripping can be substituted for suet and ham in 
the stuffing for the fish. 

Fish Sauce, White. — Boil down the stock from 
the bones (see No. 26), without adding any onion 
or parsley, or, perhaps, add one little piece of onion ; 
strain it and thicken thoroughly with white thicken- 
ing (see No. 12), or butter and flour. Pour over the 
fish, and ornament with chopped parsley and little 
pieces of red chili or capsicums, little slices of 
green pickle, skins of pickled walnuts, &c. 

Flounders. — These fish are best either Souchet 
or fried. For the first, boil them till tender, and 



AT SMALL COST. 163 

send to table in a vegetable-dish, in some of the 
water in which they were boiled. Throw in a 
sprig or two of parsley. Brown bread and butter 
should always be served with flounders Souchet. 
(For Fried Flounders see No. 6.) Dabs can be 
cooked like flounders, and, indeed are often sold as 
such. 

Flummery. (See Rice Flummery.) 

Fowl, Boiled. — Truss the fowl for boiling. Boil 
in the ordinary manner. (See No. 1.) Serve 
either white sauce, parsley and butter, Bechamel 
sauce, or sometimes oyster sauce. Time : large fowl, 
one hour and a quarter ; small spring chicken, half 
an hour ; intermediate sizes, in proportion. Boiled 
bacon, tongue, or ham should be served with boiled 
fowl. 

Fowl, Curried. — The remains of a cold fowl 
make one of the best curries. Cut the meat off the 
bones, shred it, warm it up in curry sauce. (See 
(Curry Sauce.) Use the bones for stock. (See 
No. 10.) 

Fowl, Grilled. — Butter the remains of a cold 
fowl, cut into joints, pepper and salt them, and 
make hot through on the gridiron over a clear fire. 
(See No. 5.) 

Fowl, Minced. — The remains of a cold fowl or 
turkey, either roast or boiled, will make an excellent 
mince, which can be served as a separate dish, or 
can be used for making rissoles (see Bissoles), or 
for filling small patty cases. (See Patties.) Take 



164 CHOICE DISHES 

the colli fowl and remove every particle of meat 
from the bones, scraping them. Put the bones 
on to simmer for two or three hours in some No. 3 
Stock, with a slice of onion or a bead of garlic (see 
No. 10), and let the stock 'boil away so that when 
it is cold it is a very hard jelly. 

When the stock has reduced itself by boiling 
(see No. 26) till it is nearly a glaze, when hot add 
to it a little milk, boiled separately, sufficient in 
quantity to make enough white sauce to just 
moisten the mince. Add a very little finely- 
chopped parsley, and warm uj) the minced fowl in 
this sauce without letting it boil. Serve some 
fried croutons of bread round it. (See No. 7.) 

N.B.— A few mushrooms stewed in the gravy are 
a great improvement. A small tin of mushrooms 
may be added. The liquor in the tin can be added 
to the stock, and allowed to boil away w^th it. 

A few sliced or chopped truffles are also a great 
improvement, as also a little finely-chopped ham, 
i-ather lean. When this mince is wanted for 
patties, rissoles, or " vol au vents," cream should be 
used instead of milk. 

Minced fowl can be served with poached eggs on 
the top of the mince. When this is done, place a 
fried crouton of bread between each egg, and, if 
2:>ossible, ornament the dish with a few pieces of 
bright i"ed tongue or red lean ham. This is an 
excellent dish for invalids. 

Minced fowl can also be served up in a border 
of rice. (See Rice Borders.) The rice border 
can be glazed, and the mince piled up in the middle. 
A very handsome dish can be made by ornamenting 
this — especially if the mince is made with cream — 



AT SMALL COST. 1P5 

with black truffles and small red crayfish, or pieces 
of red tongue. 

Minced fowl can also be served up in a border 
of macaroni, boiled tender in milk, formed into a 
border, covered with Parmesan cheese, and browned 
in the oven. 

Another excellent border to serve up round 
minced fowl can be made from potatoes. (See 
Potato Borders.) 

Fowl, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Fowl, Roast. — Truss for roasting. Roast in the 
ordinary manner. (See IS'o. 3.) ^ Serve good brown 
gravy (see Gravy), and bread sauce (see Bread 
Sauce) with it; also sausages or boiled ham, 
tongue, bacon, pickled pork. Time to roast : large 
fowl, one hour and a quarter ; small chicken, half 
an hour ; intermediate sizes, in proportion. 

Fowl, Roast, To Carve. — Insert the knife be- 
tween the leg and the body, and cut to the bone ; 




EOAST FOWL, TO CARVE. 



then turn the leg back with the fork, and, if the 
bird is not old, the joint will give way. The wing 
is next to be cut off, and this is done in the 



166 CHOICE DISHES 

direction of A to b, only dividing the joint with the 
knife. The four quarters having been removed in 
this way, take off the merrythought and the neck 
bones ; these last are to be removed by putting tlie 
knife in at c and pressing it, when they will break 
off from the part that sticks to the breast. Next, 
separate the breast from the body of the fowl, by 
cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast, 
quite down to the tail. Turn the fowl now back 
upwards ; put the knife into the bone midway 
between the neck and the ruuip, and on raising the 
lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump 
from you, and take off very neatly the two 
side bones, which completes the operation. The 
breast and wings are considered the best parts of a 
roast fowl, but in young birds the legs are the most 
juicy. In the case of a capon or large fowl, slices 
may be cut off the breast, just as is done when 
carving a pheasant (see Pheasant, To Carve). 
A boiled fowl is carved much in the same way as 
a roast fowl. 

Fowl, To Truss (Boiled). — Pluck, draw, and singe 
the fowl, and then Avipe it. Cut off the neck even 
with tlie back, but leave enough skin to roll back 
neatly. Take off the feet, and insert the legs in a 
slit of the skin made in the sides. Pass a skewer 
through the leg and the bottom of the wing (the 
other part of the wing should be twisted over the 
back) through the body ; do the same on both sides. 
Roll and skewer the skin of the neck, and put the 
rump through a slit made in the aj^ron. Secure 
with string across the tops of the legs, and make all 
firm before boiling ; then rub the fowl with a slice 



AT SMALL COST. 167 

of lemon. White-legged fowls are best in point of 
colour for boiling. 

Fowl, To Truss (Roast). — Pluck, draw, singe, 
but do not wash the fowl. "Wipe it with a couple 
of clean cloths, and use white paper when singeing 
it. Cut off the head and neck, and fold the skin 
over the back. Scakl and scrajoe the legs, cutting 
off the claws, and fasten the i)inions and legs with 
a skewer long enough to secure the other pinion 
and leg. Put the liver in one wing, and the 
gizzard in the other, and skewer the fowd firmly 
before it is put to the spit. A trussing-needle 
threaded with twine should be used for this 
purpose ; bring it through the backbone, and secure 
the string on the other side. 

Fritters. — Almost every kind of fruit will make 
fritters, which may be described generally as some- 
thing nice and soft fried in batter. (Read carefully 
No. 6; and Batter.) In making fritters, the 
substance fried, if a sweet, must be dried with 
powdered sugar before dipping into the batter ; if 
a meat, with flour. 

The most delicious of all meat fritters are made 
with a savoury substance which wdien hot is a liquid. 
For this purpose the substance, when cold, must be 
a hard jelly. Suppose w^e have a sort of forcemeat 
of a little minced fowl (see Fowl, Minced), highly 
seasoned with onion or garlic, a little mixed sweet 
herbs, chopped parsley, the whole made into 
moist squash, with strong chicken stock made 
from the bones, boiled down (see No. 2Q), mixed 
with a little boiling milk. Put this moist mixture 
into a dish half an inch deep, and let it get cold 



168 CHOICE DISHES 

and set into a hard jelly. Cut little round pieces 
out — say, an inch and a half in diameter. Flour 
these rounds of jelly, dip them in batter (see 
Batter), and plunge into smoking-hot fat. (See 
No. 6.) The heat hardens the batter before it has 
time to melt the mixture, which melts afterwards. 
Consequently, on cutting the hot fritter on the 
plate, a gush of a moist, savoury, delicious forcemeat 
pours on to the plate. Those unversed in the 
science of cooking wonder how this dish is done, 
with as good cause as a certain Royal personage 
wondered how the apple got into the dumpling. 

Capital fritters are made with liver forcemeat 
(see Liver Forcemeat), seasoned with garlic. This 
is a very savoury and very cheap Italian dish. 

Fruit Ices. (See Ices, Water Fruit.) 

Fruit, Stewed. — Nearly all kinds of ordinary 
fruit can be stewed, by being placed in a pie-dish 
or jar, with a little water, sugar, from a quarter 
of a pound to three quarters of a pound to a 
])Ound of fruit, and left to stew in the oven. 
It should be occasionally stirred with a spoon. 
When tender it can be served either hot or cold, 
by itself or with boiled rice and plain suet 
pudding. This is often more convenient than 
making fruit puddings or pies. An admirable disli 
for children. Never cook or eat stale fruit, which 
is absolutely injurious. 

Fry, To. (See No. 6.) 

Garlic. — (See No. 25.) The outer skin of the 
root contains a number of small dry pieces about 



AT SMALL COST. 169 

an inch in length : each of these pieces is called a 
bead. 

G-elatine. (See Jelly). 

German Salad. — Take any kind of cold cooked 
vegetables, such as potatoes, carrots, turnips, gi^eens, 
(tc. ; dress as an ordinary salad. (See Salad ; 
Macedoine.) 

Giblet Pie. — Stew a set of goose giblets, (see 
Ko. 2,) or duck giblets, after scalding them in a 
little No. 3 Stock with about a teaspoonful of 
mixed sweet herbs. (See Herbs.) This will take a 
couple of hours, very likely, before they are 
tender. Take them out, strain off the stock, remove 
the grease, make a meat pie, (see Pie, Meat) 
with the giblets and some beef-steak, using the 
stock in which the giblets were stewed for gravy. 
A piece of onion, the size of the top of the thumb, 
can be chojjped up and put in the gravy. Add also 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and plenty of 
black pepper and a little salt. 

Giblet Soup. — Scald the giblets, cut them up 
into small pieces, stew them in some No. 3 Stock. 
(See No. 10.) One set will make a quart. Add a 
dessertspoonful of savoury herbs. Stew till the 
giblets are quite tender, then take out the pieces 
of giblets and strain the soup to get rid of the 
savoury herbs. Thicken the soup with brown 
thickening (see No. 12) till it is as thick as cream. 
The No. 3 Stock must have its full allowance of 
extract of meat. Get rid of the fat. Flavour with 
pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of sherry; 
warm the giblets up in the soup. A little lemon- 
juice may be added. 



170 CHOICE DISHES 

Giblets, Stewed. — Stewed giblets are really 
giblets served up in a very little giblet soup, the 
gravy of course being better because less in 
quantity. 

Glaze. — Glaze is really first-class clear stock, of 
a good colour, boiled away till it becomes sticky. 
A quick and cheap glaze for hams, tongue, cold 
fowls, itc, can be made by boiling two or three beads 
of garlic, or an onion, in a quarter of a pint of water, 
half an ounce of gelatine, sufficient extract of meat 
to make it look a rich, dark mahogany colour; add 
also a teaspoonful of soy. This will, of course, 
be bright. Let it get nearly cold ; when it begins to 
get thick, brush the ham, &c., using a brush; what 
is left of the glaze can be added to the Stock, 
No. 1, 2, or 3. 

Glaze for Pastry.— Beat up the yolk of an egg 
with a teaspoonful of hot water, or rather more if 
you want a light colour. Brush the pastry with 
this, using a brush, when half-baked, or before 
baking has commenced. 

Goose, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Goose, Roast. — A roast goose is generally filled 
wdth sage-and-onion stuffing (see Sage-and-Onion). 
The way in which this is made must depend upon 
the taste of those who have to eat it. If a strong 
flavour of onion is liked, the onions should be 
chopped raw. If this is not the case, they should 
be boiled in one, two, or three waters, and mixed 
with a smaller or larger proportion of bread crumbs. 
It should be remembered, when bread crumbs are 
used, room should be allowed for swelling. Truss 



AT SMALL COST. 



171 



the goose firmly, tie tlie openings securely, put it 
down to a clear, brisk fire, and baste it plentifully 
until done enough (see No. 3). A goose is both 
unwholesome and unpalatable if insufhcicntly 
cooked. Take it up, remove the skewers and 
fastenings, pour a little gravy round it, and send 
some good gravy (see Gravy), and apple sauce to 
table with it. Time, from an hour to an hour and 
a half for a middling- sized goose. 

Goose, Boast, To Carve. — Begin by turning the 
neck end of the goose towards you, and cutting the 
whole breast in long slices, from one wing to 




GOOSE, ROAST, TO CARVE. 



another (see the lines A, b). To take off the leg, 
insert the fork in the small end of the bone, pres- 
sing it to the body, put the knife in at A, turn the 
leg back, and, if the bird be young, it will easily 
come away ; if old, we ^\dll not answer for it. To 
take off the wing, insert the fork in the small end 
of the pinion, and press it close to the body ; put 
the knife in at b, and divide the joint. When the 
leg and wing are off one side, attack those on the 
other ; but, except when the company is ^ery large, 
it is seldom necessary to cut up the whole goose. 



172 CHOICE DISHES 

The back and lower side bones, as well as the two 
side bones by the wing, may be cut off ; but the 
best pieces of a goose are the breast, and the thighs, 
after being separated from the drumstick. Serve 
a little of the seasoning from the inside, by making 
a circular slice in the apron at c. 

Gooseberry Fool. — Pick a pound of green goose- 
berries, stew them with a little water and three 
quarters of a pound of sugar till they are perfectly 
tender, then rub them through a wire sieve, and add 
them to rather more than half a i)int of milk 
previously boiled, and in which a dessertspoonful of 
Swiss milk has been dissolved. Swiss milk added 
to milk makes it more like cream, but a propor- 
tionately less quantity of sugar must be used. 
Gooseberry fool is served cold. 

Gooseberry Jelly. (See Jelly, Fruit). 

Gooseberry Jam. (See Jam). 

Gooseberry Pudding. (See Pudding, Fruit). 

Gooseberry Tart. (See Pie, Fruit). 

Grape Ice. (See Ice, Water Fruit.) 

Grape Jelly. (See Jelly, Fruit). 

Gravy— Clear, and Rich Brown.— It is very 
rarely that really good gravy is met with in small 
private houses, the simple reason being that cooks 
have never heard of brown thickening (see No. 12.). 

Good clear gravy, when served separate in a 
tureen — I do not mean what runs out of a joint — is 
simply good clear stock reduced (see No. 10, and 
No. 26). Good, rich, brown gravy is simply good 



AT SMALL COST. 173 

stock, such as No. 3 Stock (see No. 10), reduced 
(see No. 26), and thickened with brown thickening 
(see No. 12). Suppose you want some good, rich, 
brown gravy for a roast goose, hare, turkey, fowl, 
or any kind of game ; the gravy to be served in a 
tureen separate. Take some No. 3 Stock (see No. 
10). "We will take good, fair stock to mean, that 
it is a light jelly when it is cold. To make 
what we may call rich brown gravy out of this, 
you must boil it half away (see No. 2Q). Tliat 




GRAVY STEAIXEE. 



is, a quart of stock will make a pint of gravy. 
Next, thicken this with bro^\^l thickening (see No. 
12). Let it be of the consistency of good creanh 
Let it boil, and take care that the fat and grease — 
in fact the butter in the brown thickening — is 
thrown up and skimmed off. If the brown thicken- 
ing was rather light in colour, a few drojDS of 
" Caramel " (see No. 19) may be added. Don't spoil 
the gravy with ketchup added in any quantity : a 
very little may be addeil. Worcester sauce spoils 
gravy. If you feel dissatisfied with it on account 
of its simplicity, put in one or two beads of garlic, 



174 . CHOICE DISHES 

or a teaspoonful of port-wine dregs, a teaspoonful 
of tomato pnlp, especially for fowls or turkeys, but 
not for game. Better than all, some more extract 
of meat. If you wish to add wine, add it very 
sparingly. In fact, remember the best gravy is 
that in which the original flavour of the n^at is 
the most retained. 

Gravy before serving should always be strained 
once, to make sure of there being no burnt pieces, 
&c. The best wine for gravy is Madeira; next, 
golden sherry. It is a common mistake to add too 
much. You cannot be too careful about removing 
all the grease or fat from gra^y, especially when 
brown thickening has been used. E.ead carefully 
how to remove grease from No. 4 Stock. (See 
No. 10). 

G-ravy Soup. — Take some No. 3 Stock (see 
No. 10), thicken it verij slightly with some brown 
thickening (See No. 12.), remove all grease, add 
a little extra quantity of Liebig's Extract of Meat. 

Gravy for Hash. — In making gravy for hash, 
avoid using brown thickening. (See Hash.) 

Greengage Jam. (See Jam.) 

Greengage Pudding. (See Pudding, Fruit.) 

Greengage Tart. (See Pie, Fruit.) 

Greengage Water Ice. (See Ice, Water, Fruit.) 

Green-pea Soup. (See Pea-soup.) 

Green-peas, To Boil. (See Peas.) 

Greens. (See Cabbage.) 

Grey Mullet. — An inferior fish, best cooked by 
cutting open, grilling (See No. 5.); then adding 



AT SMALL COST. 175 

a little butter, pepper, and salt, chopped parsley, 
and lemon-juice. It may also be boiled plain like 
salmon. 

Grouse, Norwegian, or Ptarmigan. — These 
birds are real grouse, the plumage of which has 
been affected by climate, and the flavour by food. 
Treat them as ordinary grouse. They will bear a 
great deal of keeping. Those that have fed on 
young mountain firs have a taste of turpentine, 
and are worthless. Those that have fed on the 
open plains are nearly equal to English grouse. A 
delicate scent will detect the turpentine smell. I 
have bought Norwegian grouse for eightpence each 
equal to English grouse, but buying them is rather 
a lottery. 

Grouse, Potted. (See Potted aIeats.) 

Grouse, Roast. — Pluck and draw the bird, but 
do not wash or damp the inside. Truss like a fowl. 
Eoast or bake in the oven ; when half done place a 
piece of buttered toast under the bird. Baste as 
much as possible. Time : from twenty-five minutes 
to thirty minutes. Serve with it bread sauce, 
(See Bread Sauce), fried bread crumbs (see No. 7), 
and good gravy (see Geavy), not spoilt by being 
flavoured. 

Grouse, Salmi of. — The remains of the grouse 
can be warmed up in brown gravy, and a table- 
spoonful of sherry added ; also some fried bread, 
and a few olives. 

Gruel, Oatmeal. — Add a tablespoonful of oat- 
meal to a little water, mix it smooth, and add it 
gradually to a pint of boiling water ; keep stirring. 
Let it boil for about a quarter of an hour. The 



17C CHOICE DISHES 

same metliod should be jDursued for making gruel 
from PrejDared Barley, or Patent Groats. 

Gudg'eon. — Gudgeon is a fresh-water fish, small, 
but delicate in flavour. It can be cooked like 
most other fresh-water fish, by being stewed in 
wine (See Fish, Fresh-avater), or it can be fried. 
The fish should be cleaned thoroughly inside, but 
the scales need not be scraped ofi". When the fish 
is fried, after cleaning, flour it, egg-and-bread- 
crumb it (see No. 20), and fry (see No. 6). Time, 
from three to five minutes, according to size. 
Fried gudgeon, like smelts, make a nice garnish for 
larojer fish. 

Guinea-fowl. — This is a dry bird, and should be 
cooked in every respect like a young roast turkey. 
Cover the breast with strips of fat bacon ; brown it 
after taking off" the bacon quickly in front of the 
fire. Time, about one hour. 

Gurnet. — The gurnet is best stuffed with veal- 
stufling, and baked. It is a dry fish, and to be 
nice should be constantly basted, or covered with 
fat bacon. It can also be stewed in wine, but it 
requires some additional flavouring to make it 
nice. 

A cheap way is to stew it with onions very 
gently till it is tender ; or it can be boiled plain 
(see No. 1), and eaten with black butter. (See 
I3uTTER, Black.) 

Haddock, Smoked. — The best and simplest way 
to cook a smoked haddock is to put it on a gridiron 
over a clear fire, and grill it. A moderate-sized 
one takes about six or ten minutes. The time 



AT SMALL COST. 177 

varies with the thickness. Always grease the grid- 
iron. Kub a piece of butter over it to make it 
look moist before sending to table. 

Some boil the haddock for a few minutes, and 
then bake it a short time in the oven ; or it can be 
plain boiled. Put it into cold water. When it 
boils it is done. 

Haddock, Fresh.— The nicest way to eat fresh 
haddock is to have it plain boiled (see No. 1), with 
a little oiled butter (see Butter, Oiled), served 
separate, and a few nice floury potatoes. 

Haddock can also be baked. Bone the fish, and 
put it in a pie-dish with some butter^ pepper and 
salt. Turn the pieces occasionally. Add some 
chopped parsley and lemon-juice before serving. 

Hake. — This is a cheap and excellent fish. It can 
be boiled plain (see No. 1), and served with oiled 
butter (see Butter, Oiled), and potatoes. It can 
be cut in slices and fried plain (see No. 6), or with 
egg and bread crumbs (see No. 20), or in batter. 
(See Batter, and No. 6.) It can be stewed exactly 
like stewed eels. (See Eels, Stewed.) It can 
be boned, stuffed with veal-stuffing (see Yeal- 
stuffixg), and baked. The bones will make some 
good stock for sauce. (See Fish Sauce from Fish 
Stock.) It is a cheap fish stuffed and baked, and 
served with this sauce, which is like good brown 
gravy, and a dish of potatoes, really makes a 
thoroughly good dinner. 

Halibut. — This is a large fish, sold generally in 
pieces from fourpence to eightpence a pound. It 
can be cooked in any of the ways recommended for 

M 



178 CHOICE DISHES 

Hake. (See Hake.) Cold Halibut will make a 
good curry. 

Ham, Boiled. — Some hams require soaking for 
days, especially those dried-up American hams. 
All hams are best soaked for some hours, and the 
water should be chano-ed once or twice. Place the 
ham in cold water, with an onion with several 
cloves stuck in it, a head of celery, a turnip, a 
carrot, and a tablespoonful of sweet herbs. (See 
Herbs.) Bring the water to the boil and skim, then 
let the ham simmer for about— say, twenty-five 
minutes to every pound ; then take off the lid, and 
let the ham get quite cold in the liquor in ivJiich it 
was boiled. By this means all the juice and liquor 
which would otherwise run out will form a jelly 
in the ham itself. 

When cold take out the ham ; take off the skin, 
trim the edges, and cover the ham with some nice, 
light, brown bread raspings. (See Bread Raspings.) 
For this purpose you must just warm the outside 
of the ham, in order to get the raspings to stick. 
A hot shovel held near it is best, as you go along 
shaking the raspings. Ornament with some nice 
fresh parsley. Tie a paper frill round the knuckle, 
and put on as large a dish as possible. The ham 
can also be glazed. (See Glaze.) 

Ham, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Hare, Jugged. — Cut the hare into neat little 
pieces. Fry these slightly, just enough to brown 
them, in a frying-pan in a little butter. Make 
a jar hot in the oven. Then throw the pieces of 
hare into the jar, with a small stick of cinnamon, 
half a dozen cloves, and a large glass of port wine. 



AT SMALL COST. 179 

Tie a clotli over the jar tight ; put a plate on the 
cloth, and something heavy on the plate ; and let the 
pieces remain in the jar till they are cold. Slice 
lip an onion, and fry it in the frying-pan that 
fried the hare. When it is brown, pour into the 
frying-pan some rich brown gravy (see Gravy) that 
has had but little brown thickening in it, and let it 
boil up for a little while. Then strain off the 
gravy into a basin ; press the onion in the strainer ; 
let the gravy stand a little while ; take off the fat. 
Then pour the gravy on to the hare in the now 
cold jar, stand the jar in a pie-dish with some hot 
water in it, and let it thus stew in the oven for two 
or three hours ; or put the jar in a saucepan, and 
let the water simmer. At the finish the gravy 
may be thickened with a little corn-flour, but don't 
let the hare be in the gravy when it boils. Serve 
a few forcemeat balls of veal forcemeat (see Veal 
Forcemeat) with the hare. Moisten the veal force- 
meat with raw beaten esrsr. Roll them into balls 
the size of a marble, dip them in flour, and throw 
them into boilmg water. This v/ill set them. 
Drain them, and warm them up in the jugged hare 
the last thing. Serve red currant jelly v/ith 
jugged hare separate. 

Hare, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Hare, Roast. — The only drawback to roast hare 
is, that it is apt to be dry. Cut some thin slices of 
fat bacon, and cover the inside of the hare nearest 
the back. Fill the hare with veal stuffing (see 
Veal Stuffing), and sew it up. Roast (see No. 3), 
and baste constantly. If the hare is baked, it 
should be covered with thin fat bacon, tied round 



180 



CHOICE DISHES 



it. When done, take off the bacon and brown the 
outside with a red-hot shoveh Serve rich brown 
gravy (see Gravy), and red currant jelly with roast 
hare. Put a very little gravy in the dish with the 
hare, but serve the gravy separate in a tureen. 
The carver is sure to splash the gravy if there is 
much in the dish. Time to roast, one to one and 
a half hours, according to size ; the same to bake, 
if covered with fat. 

Hare, Roast, To Carve. — Insert the point of the 
knife under the shoulder, and cut from that down 
to the rump, along the sides of the backbone. The 




ROAST HARE. 



slices should be moderately thick. Another way 
of carving hare is to remove the shoulders and 
legs, and cut the back crosswise into four or fiv^e 
pieces. This, however, can only be done when the 
hare is very young, or when it has been boned. 
When cooking is set about on a grand scale, the 
backbone of hares, and especially of old hares, is 
usually taken out, thus rendering the labour of 
carving much easier. To separate the leg, put 
the knif§ between the leg and the back, and give 



AT SMALL COST. 181 

it a little turn inwards at the joint, wliieli you 
must try to hit and not to break by force. The 
shoulders must be taken off by cutting in a circu- 
lar line round them. The last are known as the 
sportsman's pieces ; some prefer them, but gene- 
rally they are thought little of, and are served 
only when the other portions of the hare are 
exhausted. The most delicate part is the back ; 
after that come the thighs. When every one is 
helped, take off the head. The upper and lower 
jaw should be divided by inserting the knife be- 
tween them ; this will enable you to lay the upper 
part of the head conveniently on the plate. That 
being done, cut it in two. The ears and brains 
are highly prized by connoisseurs. With each slice 
of hare some of the stuffing should be served, and 
some of the gravy should accompany it. This is 
an important point, for roast hare is naturally 
dryish, and requires the aid of plenty of gravy to 
be properly relished. 

Hare Soup. — Hare soup can be made, and is of 
course best made, from a fresh hare ; but it is 
more often made from the remains of jugged 
or roast hare. In this case, cut out the best 
pieces of meat from the back, put them aside, and 
put the bones and the rest of the hare to boil in 
some good stock, No. 1 or 3. (See No. 10.) The 
quantity must depend upon what is left. Also, 
put in with it a dessertspoonful of mixed sweet 
herbs ; also, if possible, chop up a small piece of 
lean ham. When it has boiled some time, strain it 
off, take out the bones, and scrape the meat off 
them, and rub all the meat and ham through a 



182 CHOICE DISHES 

wire sieve into a basin. (See No. 21.) Add the 
soup to this, and colour with a few drops of 
*' Caramel." (See No. 19.) Don't make the soup 
thick. Dissolve also a teaspoonful of red currant 
jelly in the soup, and add a glass of port wine. 

If the soup is made from roast hare, the flavour- 
ings for jugged hare (see Jugged Hare) must be 
added : such as cloves, a little cinnamon, and extra 
onion. Season with pepper and salt. 

Haricot Beans. (See Beans.) 

Haricot Mutton. — Take a couple of pounds of 
neck of mutton, and cut it into chops, or rather, 
little cutlets. Put a piece of mutton fat in a 
frying-pan, and just brown the cutlets without 
cooking them through. Put them into a sauce- 
pan. Next, cut up two carrots, one turnijD, and 
one onion, and fry these in the frying-pan for 
a few minutes, till the edges begin to colour. 
Put these in the saucepan with the meat and 
about a j^int of water, or, of course still better, 
stock, into the frying-pan, and stir it up and 
thicken slightly with a little white thickening (see 
No. 12), or a little flour and water (see No. 13). 
Pour this into the saucepan with the meat and 
vegetables, and let it stew (see No. 2) very gently 
for an hour. In serving, take out the cutlets and 
arrange them neatly in the centre of the dish. 
Make a border of the vegetables round them, and 
pour the gravy over the whole. A vegetable-dish 
is best. Do not add Worcester sauce or ketchup ; 
season simply with a little pepper and salt. A 
teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley may be 
sprinkled over the vegetables. 



AT SMALL COST. 183 

Hash. — There are hashes and hashes. Thin 
slices of meat, sent np in an immense dish, with 
a thin wateiy gravy covered with greasy spots, and 
surromided witli sodden sippets, is a dish as un- 
appetising as it is unnecessary. Good hash is 
really very nice, and it is quite possible, with a 
little extra trouble, and without extra expense, to 
make out of the fag-end of a cold leg of mutton a 
dish that even Mrs. Gamp herself would not scorn 
to eat. 

I think the first point to be aimed at is to 
have the gravy a good colour ; secondly, of a good 
consistency. Suppose you have, say, the remains 
of a cold roast or boiled leg of mutton — and you 
want to make a really good hash. First, cut off 
all the meat carefully in nice, neat, small slices, and 
remove at once all skin and gi'istle — anything, in 
fact, that is likely to be rejected or left. This, 
with the bone chopped up, will make a little stock, 
No. 3. (See No. 10.) Next, take a large onion, 
or even two. And I would here state that, if the 
flavour of onion is objected to, it is better not to 
make hash at all, but have a dish of mince instead. 
Slice the onion, and fry it of a nice rich brown 
colour in a frying-pan, with a little dripiDing, or 
some of the spare mutton fat. Boil the stock 
away (see No. 2Q) till there is not much more than 
half a pint. Add this to the onion ; rub the whole 
through a wire sieve (see No. 21) into a basin. 
You will now have a fairly good-coloured sauce. 
Add a little Liebig's Extract of Meat, a few drops 
of "Caramel" (see No. 19), a dessertspoonful of 
Harvey Sauce, and a little pepper and salt. 
Now thicken with a little corn-flour — a very little 



184 CHOICE DISHES 

will be sufficient — till the sauce is as tliick as 
cream. Then take the slices of meat which have 
been already cooked, and sim])ly make them hot 
through in this sauce, and ])ut the hash in a 
vegetable-dish. 

The usual plan is to put some bread sippets 
round hash, but fried bread cut into shapes looks 
far better. (See No. 7.) Place the fried bread 
round the edge of the hash, and between each a 
small pickled walnut, or, if hot things are liked, 
half a red chili ; this, so to speak, brightens up the 
dish, and to many the chili is a very great 
improvement. 

The sauce should be a nice rich dark brown. 
Again, if you have bay-leaves, three or four bay- 
leaves can be warmed up in the gravy, and sent up 
in the saiTce, whole. It raises the tone of the dish. 

This, I admit, will take time, but the result will 
well repay you. 

A quicker way is to send up the fried onion in 
the gravy Avithout rubbing it throiTgh a wire sieve. 
Ketchup will do instead of Harvey Sauce, but it 
is not so good. Worcester Sauce is too overpower- 
ing. A cheaper way is to omit the extract of meat. 

To make good hash, however, you must avoid 
swimming the meat in gravy. There is no excuse, 
too, for not thickening it. Corn-flour is cheap, 
and the quantity required will cost almost nothing. 
Burnt sugar is also cheap ; therefore, why not have 
a little by you, ready for usel (See No. 19.) 

If in summer you can get a nice fresh mush- 
room, this, fried with the onion, is an immense 
improvement. 

Some recommend browning the meat in the 



AT SMALL COST. 185 

£i-ying-pan. The principal objection to hash is that 
the meat is over- cooked. If, however, the meat is 
underdone — not an uncommon thing in a boiled leg 
of mutton — then, just colour the slices of under- 
done meat. Get a very little fat in the frying-pan 
and make it very hot, so that the meat turns colour 
instantly, Tliis will make it more tender, and 
keep in the juice. 

This applies to beef and mutton ; veal is always 
best minced. Lamb does not hash well, and is far 
preferable cold with mint sauce, or it can be minced. 

In hashing duck, goose, fowl, it is always best to 
cut the meat off the bones, and stew the bones for 
stock. Proceed as above, but omit the Harvey- 
Sauce ; also omit the walnuts and chilies. A 
mushroom improves fowl, turkey, kc, but is best 
avoided with duck and goose. A little sage-and- 
onion seasoning can be warmed up with these latter 
and handed separately. 

Hasty Pudding. — Put some milk in a saucepan. 
Let it hoil. When it boils, and not before, dredge 
in some flour, and keep stirring all the while — it 
is apt to burn — till the whole becomes thick 
enough. Turn it out, only continue to stir for a 
minute after you take the saucepan off the fire. 
Add a little butter, and sweeten with sugar. Any 
kind of jam can be served with this pudding. 

Hearts. — Hearts, whether bullocks', calves', or 
sheep's, are all cooked the same way. They all 
require very careful washing and soaking, and 
sometimes a little vinegar added to the water is an 
improvement, especially in hot weather. All 
hearts should be parboiled (indeed, a bullock's 



186 CHOICE DISHES 

heart should be allowed to shnmer for a couple of 
hours) ; then take them out, and fill them with veal 
stuffing. (See Yeal Stuffixg.) Bake them in 
the oven (see No. 4) for a couple of hours. They 
want a good deal of basting, and, if possible, it is 
best to put some solid pieces of fat on them to melt 
and run down. Turn the hearts once or twice when 
tliis is done. Send some gravy to table with them. 

Herbs, Sweet. — It is always best to have a 
bottle of dried sweet herbs by you. They are 
called mixed sweet herbs. Mixed herbs generally 
consist of two parts parsley, one part mai'joram, one 
part savoury, one part lemon thyme. For soups, 
such as turtle or mock turtle, the best herbs are 
one-third sweet basil and the other two-thirds equal 
parts of marjoram^ savoury, and lemon-thyme. 
Parsley can be added separately. 

Herrings, Fresh. — These are always best grilled 
over a clear fire. (See No. 5.) The fish must first 
be cleaned and the scales scraped oft' The best 
herrings are those which contain a fine soft roe, 
which is a great delicacy. Tbey can also be cooked 
in a frying-pan. (See No. 6.) 

Herrings, Fresh, Baked and Pickled.— Cut oft" 
the heads and remove the back-bone. Bake them 
in a pie-dish, in vinegar and water, equal parts. 
Put twelve pepper-corns and three bay-leaves in 
the pickle. When tender, let them get cold. 

Herrings, Dried. (See Bloaters.) 

Hock Cup. (See Cups.) 

Horse-radish, for Garnish. — Horse-radish makes 
an excellent garnish for roast beef or rump-steak, 
as well as havins; the advantaoje of beins: eaten 



AT SMALL COST. 187 

with it. It should be first thoroughly washed, and 
then scraped into thin wliite shavings. 

Horse-radish Sauce. — Place half a pint of milk 
in a tureen, add and dissolve in it a tablespoonful 
of Swiss milk and a dessertspoonful of made 
mustard ; add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a little 
pepper, and sufficient grated horse-radish to make 
the whole rather thicker than double-cream. This 
latter operation, which will take about two sticks 
of horse-radish, is a troublesome process, and will 
make your eyes water. The sauce, which is 
suitable for hot and cold beef of every description, 
will, however, amply repay you the trouble. 

Ices. — Ices are generally regarded as expensive 
luxuries, and are an admirable instance of how 
completely custom rules the majority of our house- 
keepers. There are many houses where the dinner 
may consist of soup, fish, entrees, joint, game, and 
w^ine ; and yet were we to suggest a course of ice, 
the worthy housekeeper would hesitate on the 
ground of extravagance, showing how much we are 
the slaves of habit. It is, as a rule, hopeless to 
argue wdth persons whose definition of economy is 
— what they have always been accustomed to since 
they were children; their definition of extrava- 
gance — anything new, or, as they will probably 
express it, any new-fangled notion. 

The fact remains, however, that there is many a 
worthy Signer who sells ices in the streets at Id. 
each, and manages to make a living out of the 
profit, not only for himself, but for his Signora as 
well. Under these circumstances, the manufacture 
of these extravagances is worthy of enquiry. 



188 CHOICE DISHES 

Ices can be made at home very cheaply with an 
ice-machine, which can now be obtained at a — 
comiDaratively speaking — small cost. "With a 
machine there is absolutely no trouble, and 
directions will be given with each machine, so 
that any details here, which vary with the machine, 
will be useless. 

Ices can be made at home without a machine 
with a little trouble, and to explain how to do this 
it is necessary to explain the theory of ice-making, 
which is exceedingly simple. I will not allude to 
machines dependent on freezing-powders, but to 
those which rely for their cold simply on ice and 
salt mixed. 

We will suppose we want a lemon-water ice, i.e., 
we have made some very strong and sweet lemon- 
ade, and we want to freeze it. 

It is well known that water will freeze at a 
certain temperature — call it freezing-point. By 
mixing chopped ice and salt, and a very little 
water together, a far greater degree of cold can 
be immediately produced — viz., a thermometer 
would stand at 32 degrees below freezing-point 
were it plunged into this mixture. 

An ice-machine is a metal pail placed in another 
pail much larger than itself. The " sweet lemon- 
ade " is placed in the middle pail, and chopped ice 
and salt placed outside it. The proportion of ice 
to salt should be double the weight of the former 
to the latter. 

It is now obvious that if we have filled the two 
pails — the one with the " sweet lemonade," and 
the other with the ice and salt, that very soon our 
lemonade will be a solid block of ice. To prevent 



AT SMALL COST. 189 

this it must be constantly stirred, and as the 
lemonade will of course freeze first against the 
sides of the pail, these sides must be constantly 
scraped. Inside the inner pail consequently there 
is a stirrer, which, by means of a handle, con- 
tinually scrapes the sides of the pail. 

It is obvious that if the stirrer is fixed, and the 
pail itself made to revolve, that that is the same 
thing as if the pail were fixed and the stirrer made 
to revolve. 

To make lemon-water ice, therefore, place the 
lemonade in the inner pail, surround it with 
chopped ice and salt, two parts of the former to 
one of the latter, turn the handle, and in a few 
minutes the ice is made. 

Now, suppose you have not got a machine, 
proceed as follows : — Take an empty clean round 
coffee-tin, the larger the better. I mention coffee- 
tin as the most probable one to be in tlie house, 
but any round tin will do. Get a clean piece of 
wood the same width as the inside diameter of the 
tin, only it must be a great deal longer. We will 
suppose the tin rather more than a foot deep, and 
five inches in diameter. Our piece of wood, which 
should be clean and smooth, must be nearly five 
inches wide, say, a quarter of an inch thick, and 
about two feet long. 

Next get a small tub, say, nine inches deep ; 
place the round tin in the middle, with the sweet 
lemonade inside. Next place the piece of wood 
upright in the tin, so that the wood touches the 
Ijottom. Next surround the tin with chopped ice 
and salt up to the edge of the tub, fill it as high as 
you can, and then cover it round with a blanket. 



190 CHOICE DISHES 

i.e., cover tlie ice and salt. Now get some one to 
hold the wooden Itoard steady. Take the tin in 
your two hands and turn round and round, first 
one way and then another. In a very short time 
you will find the tin to contain — Lemon-water ice. 

The following hints, rather than receipts, for 
making ices, i.e., for making the liquid, which 
must be frozen as directed above, are given not 
because they are the best receipts, but because 
cream, which is the basis of all first-class ices, is 
often too exj)ensive to be used constantly. 

Of course real cream is far superior to any 
substitute, but I am writing for those who cannot 
afibrd it. 

Ice Cream. — Make a custard (see Custard) with 
half a pint of milk, the yolks of two eggs, and a 
tablespoonful of Swiss milk, and some sugar. As 
soon as it gets a little thick, stir it till nearly cold. 
Then add some essense of vanilla or almonds, or a 
wineglassful of noyeau, or any flavouring wished, 
and freeze. 

Ices from Fresh Fruit. — Take half a pound of 
fresh strawberries or raspberries, add half that 
weight of sugar ; pound thoroughly, rub through a 
sieve, and mix with this thick juice rubbed through, 
half a pint of the mixture made for ice cream (see 
Ice Cream), only, of course, without any flavouring 
such as vanilla, &c. Mix thoroughly and freeze. 

N.B. — A few red currants should be mixed with 
the raspberries. Should the colour be poor, brighten 
it up before freezing with a little cochineal. 

Ices fro^n Jam. — Mix a quarter of a pound of 
any jam with' half a pint of the mixture made for 
ice cream (see Ice Cream), without any flavouring 



AT S3IALL COST. 191 

such as vanilla. Hub all through a fine sieve, and 
freeze. Cochineal will give additional colour to red 
jams, spinach green essence to green jams, and a 
very little turmeric to yellow jams. A small 
pinch of the latter can be boiled in the milk. 

/ce. Lemon Water. — Kub six lumps of sugar on the 
rind of six lemons. Add this and the juice of the six 
lemons to a pint of fairly sweet syrup. The amount 
of sugar is a matter of taste. Strain and freeze. 

Ice, Orange Water.— Act exactly as in lemon- 
water, using oranges instead of lemons_, and syrup 
containing less sugar. 

N.B. — A good strong syrup can be made bj 
boiling a pound of sugar in a pint of water. 

Ice, Water, Fruit. — All sorts of water fruit ices 
can be made by mixing half a pint of juice, such 
as currant juice, with twice that quantity of syrup, 
and freezing. Grated ripe pineapple, pounded and 
bruised ripe cherries and greengages, strawberry 
juice, raspberry juice, can be mixed Avith syrup and 
frozen. Sometimes a little lemon-juice can be 
added with advantage, and in the case of Cherry 
Ice and Greengage Ice, a little Noyeau added is an 
improvement. 

Indian Sandwiches. — Pound two ounces of cold 
chicken with one ounce of cold bacon, ham, or 
tongue. Moisten them in a small stewpan with a 
little stock ; add a dessertspoonful of curry powder, 
and another of curry paste, and, if liked very hot, 
add a little cayenne pepper. Let it simmer for 
ten minutes. 

Mix into a smooth paste, and make into 
sandwiches by spreading a thin layer of fried 



192 CHOICE DISHES 

bread (see No. 7), and covering with another thin 
layer. These sandwiches are sometimes called 
Aberdeen Sandwiches, and sometimes Adelaide 
Sandwiches. A ball of Parmesan cheese and butter 
is placed on the top of each in the latter case, 

Irish Stew. — This is a cheap, nice, and econo- 
mical dish, and can be made from any kind of meat, 
the best for the purpose being what is known as 
the best end of the neck of mutton. Take two 
pounds of potatoes, peel them and slice them. Lay 
a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a saucepan or 
stew-pan. Have ready one pound of onions, also 
sliced ; lay a layer of onions on the potatoes — 
taking, say, half the potatoes and half the onions. 
Next, take the meat, from which should be removed 
nearly all the fat, as a very little fat indeed will 
swell in stewing. Pepper and salt the meat 
thoroughly, and lay it on the onion. Cover over 
the meat with the rest of the onion, and lay the 
remainder of the potatoes on the to}). Cover the 
saucepan or stewpan, and place a weight on the lid. 
Add a very little water (half a pint.) Take care 
to moisten the top. Let the whole stew for two or 
three hours. Be very careful not to let it even 
nearly boil. Don't take the lid off to look at it : 
it will do no good. 

If you make Irish stew with potatoes previously 
boiled (which is more wholesome for persons with 
delicate stomachs), you must increase the quantity 
of water. 

By some it is thought that the water from any 
roots, such as potatoes, onions, &c., is unwholesome. 

Irish Rock. — A sweet for dessert, composed of 



AT SMALL cost. 



193 



almonds, sugar, and butter pounded together, and 
moulded into an egg-like shape. It has a very 
pretty appearance, when arranged to contrast with 
green sweetmeats and bright-coloured preserved 
fruits. AVash the salt from half a pound of butter, 




and beat into the butter a quarter of a pound of finely- 
powdered sugar ; blanch a pound of sweet almonds 
and an ounce of bitter. Pound these in a mortar, 
reserving enough of the sweet almonds to spike for 
ornamenting the dish when sent to table ; add the 
butter and siigar, with alx)ut a quarter of a glass 
of brandy, and pound until smooth and white, 
when, after having become firm, it may be shaped 
with a couple of spoons. It should be placed high 
on a glass dish with a decoration of green sweet- 
meats, the spiked almonds, and a sprig of myrtle. 
Garnish with any green fruits or sweetmeats. 
Italian Fritters. (See Fritters.) 



194 



CHOICE DISHES 



Jam. — In making jams or preserves, care must 
be taken, first of all, that the fruit is gathered on a 
dry day, and when the morning sun is on the 
garden. If gathered in damp or foggy weather the 
jam will certainly become mouldy, and will not 
be worth the trouble and expense of boiling. The 
fruit should be free from dust, and any that is 
unsound should be casib aside; It should be boiled 
as soon as possible after it is gathered. 
• The best quality of sugar, either white or brown, 
will be found the cheapest in the end. White 




PRE3ERVI-VG-P.\N. 



sugar should be shining and close in appearance; 
brown sugar, bright and gravelly. The inferior 
sugars throw up so much scum in boiling that they 
waste as much as they save. The quantity of 
sugar required depends upon the nature of the 
fruit. As there is no economy in using inferior 
sugar, there is also no economy in using too little 
sugar. The only result of endeavouring to save in 
this way is that the jam has to be boiled so much the 
longer, and thus the quantity is reduced ; to say 
nothing of the expenditure of fuel. If, on the 
contrary, too much sugar is used, the flavour of 



AT SMALL COST. 195 

the fruit will be lost. In making common jams, 
the fruit should be well boiled before the sugar is 
added, and care should be taken that it is not 
so much thickened that the sugar will not easily 
dissolve. Sugar should never be reduced to powder 
before it is added to the fruit, or it wdll give the 
jam a turbid aiDpearance. The scum should be 
carefully removed as it rises. 

Wooden spoons should be used for stirring jam. 
Iron, tin, or pewter ones will spoil the colour. 

An enamelled saucepan is the best for making 
jam. If a brass preserving-pan is used, it should 
be scrupulously clean, bright, and drij. The pan 
should be raised a few inches above the fire. If 
placed flat on it, the fruit wdll be in danger of 
burning. The flavour and colour will be best 
preserved if the fruit is boiled ]-apidly. It should 
be watched constantly and stirred frequently during 
the process of boiling. 

Home-made jam, when properly prepared and 
well preserved, is incomparably superior to that 
which is oflered for sale. 

In making jam from stone fruits, the stones can 
be removed previous to boiling, or afterwards. 
Only sufficient water should be added to simply 
prevent burning. Care should be taken to get rid 
of the moisture, as all jams made from stone fruits 
are apt to ferment. When lemon-rind is added it 
must be grated very fine. In stone fruit jams 
some of the stones should be cracked, and the 
kernels halved and added. 

In all jams a little brandy may be added with 
advantage. Jam when finished should be placed 
in jars, covered over with a thin piece of paper 



196 CHOICE DISHES 

soaked in brandy, and another piece of stout paper 
tied over the jar as tightly as possible. 

The following is a list of the quantity of sugar 
and other ingredients required for making the 
jams named. One pound of fruit is supposed in 
each case : — 

Aj^ricotJam. — Three quarters of a pound of sugar. 

Blackberry Jam. — Half a pound of sugar. If 
apple is mixed, a little more. 

Carrot Jam. — Boil till tender ; rub through wire 
sieve. (See No. 21). The rind and juice of one 
lemon, a small glass of brandy, one pound of sugar. 
To make the jam look very nice, only use the red 
part of the carrot. 

Black Currant Jam. — One pound of sugar. 

Red Currant Jam. — One pound of sugar. 

Damson Jam. — One pound of sugar. 

Gooseberry Jam. — Three quarters of a pound of 
sugar. 

Greengage Jam. — Three quarters of a pound of 
sugar. 

Plum Jam. — One pound of sugar. 

Raspberry Jam. — One pound of sugar. 

Rhubarb Jam. — Three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, half the rind of one lemon, half an ounce of 
bitter almonds, or, if no almonds, juice of one lemon. 

Strawberry Jam. — Three quarters of a pound of 
sugar. 

Vegetable Marrow Jam. — Three quarters of a 
pound of sugar, rind and juice of one lemon, one 
teaspoonful of powdered ginger. Peel the vegetable 
marrow, take out the pips, cut it up into ])ieces, 
and simmer till tender. The einijei' cun be omitted 
and more lemon-juice added. 



AT SMALL COST. 



197 



Jam Tart, Open. (See Cheesecakes.) 
Jelly, Lemon. — Take six lemons, rub half a 
pound of sugar on the peel of three of them, and 
squeeze the juice of all six into a basin. Soak two 
ounces of gelatine in a pint of water, after first 
washing the gelatine. Add it to the sugar and 




JELLY MOULD. 



lemon-juice, and dissolve it_,in a small enamelled 
saucepan over the fire, and strain through a jelly- 
bag. If it is not bright, clear it with the whipped 
white of an egg, exactly as stock is cleared (see 
No. 18) and strain it through a jelly-bag (see Jelly- 
bag). Add, when nearly cool, half a pint of sherry. 
Pour it into a mould that has been held over some 
steam so as to get moist inside. "When it is set, 
dip the mould into rather warm water for a second, 
place a glass dish over the mould, turn it quickly 
upside-down, and turn it out. 

In turning out the jelly, the dish and mould 
should be held together in two hands, then make a 
quick but not too violent movement downwards, as 
if you w^ere going to throw the dish on the ground, 
and suddenly stop: this will generally bring the 



198 CHOICE DISHES 

jelly out. If it cannot be got out otherwise, dip 
tlie mould for a second or two into warm water. 
But this must be done very carefully, or the sharp- 
ness of the mould will be spoiled. 

This is very good simple lemon jelly ; you can 
make cheaper jelly by putting much less wine and 
only two lemons. Two ounces of gelatine will 
always set a quart. A great imjDrovement, but by 
no means essential, is to boil a stick of cinnamon 
and a pinch of coriander seeds in the jelly. 

A very important point for consideration is the 
consistency of the jelly. Two ounces of gelatine is 
generalhj too much, especially in winter, but gela- 
tine so varies in quality that it is scarcely safe to 
recommend less. Remember that jelly is best when 
it will only just hold together, and fit for nothing 
when you almost have to cut it with a knife and 
bite it. If it is winter, or if you have any ice, you can 
test the jelly by putting, say, a saucer in the snow 
or ice. Wipe it dry, and put a teaspoonful of the 
jelly into the cold saucer ; it vv'ill set almost im- 
mediately, and you will be able to judge whether it 
is too stiff or not. 

Another point is colour. Rubbing the sugar on 
the peel will give a pale yellow colour, and many 
persons think it best so. I think, however, four 
or five drops of cochineal gives it tone ; you do not 
want to make it pink. 

The above receipt gives the basis of all jellies. 
You can add various kinds of liqueurs in less 
quantity instead of the wine, and vary the name 
of the jelly accordingly. 

Jelly, Orange. — Act exactly as above, only using 



AT SMALL COST. 199 

six oranges and two lemons, rubbing the sugar on 
three oranges. 

Jelly, Port-wine, For Invalids. — Two ounces of 
gelatine, half a pint of water, two ounces of sugar. 
Dissolve the gelatine by boiling, strain it, and add 
rather more than a pint of port wine. Test the 
jelly as to stiffness, and add port till the jelly will 
only just set. As this need not be poured into a 
mouldj you can afford to have it almost melting 
away, which renders it so much more appetising. 
"When you dissolve two ounces in only half a pint 
you cannot help losing some in straining : con- 
sequently, you will not be able to set much more 
than a pint of wine. 

Jellies, Fruit. — Take any fresh, ripe fmit, such 
as red currants, black currants, goosebeiTies, grapes. 
Place the fruit in a jar, and place the jar in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water and boil this away till the 
fruit yields up its juice. Strain the juice through 
a jelly -bag, but do not squeeze the fruit. Dissolve 
a pound of lump sugar in every pint of juice, and 
boil till it sets. Test this by putting a teaspoonful 
into a cold saucer. The jelly, of course, derives its 
name from the fruit used. 

Apples may be treated in an exactly similar man- 
ner. Do not squeeze the apples. The apples must 
be simmered in a little water, and the juice of 
two lemons added to each pint of juice as well as 
the pound of sugar. 

Jelly-bags. — Jelly-bags are much the strongest 
and best when made at home. The strong flannel 
used for ironing-blankets is the best for this pur- 
pose, and it should be made of a half-square, and 



200 



CHOICE DISHES 




JELLY-BAG. 



sewn at tlie side with a double seam, so as to be 
wide at the top, and pointed at the bottom. The 
top may be hemmed, and three tape loops sewn 
to it, by which the bag may be suspended when 
in use. A jelly-bag should 
always be wrung dry out of 
hot water before the liquid is 
poured into it. 

Jelly, Bottled, To Mould.— 
When jelly is wanted quickly, it 
may be bought in bottles, ready 
made, and beautifully transpa- 
rent. In order to mould it, un- 
cork the bottle, and put it into 
boiling water. Let it remain until 
the jelly can be poured out of 
the bottles. Flavour it according to taste, but do 
not add very much liquid, or it may interfere with 
the firmness of the jelly. Pour it into damp moulds, 
and put it in a cool place, to become stiff again. 
Time, a few minutes to dissolve ; some hours to 
become firm again. Probable cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. 
per pint. Bottled jelly can be flavoured by adding 
essence of vanilla, various liqueurs. It is much 
improved by boiling a little with some coriander 
seeds (a teaspoonful) for a short time. One bottle 
Avill make two jellies. Supjoose, for instance, it is 
lemon jelly ; pour half into a basin with the juice 
of an orange and some sugar rubbed on the rind. 
Add cochineal and make it pink. As bought jelly 
is generally fairly firm, it will bear the addition of 
this amount of liquid. If you have no time to 
put it in a mould, break it up and put it into 



AT SMALL COST. 201 

glasses. Bottled jellies bought are something like 
bought potted meats : very much alike iii flavour. 
The orange jelly is as much like the lemon jelly as 
the potted ham is like the beef. 

Jerusalem Artichokes. (See Artichokes.) 

John Dory. — This fish is very nice boiled and 
served with oiled butter (see Butter, Oiled). 
When small it is exceedingly good, wrapped up in 
oiled paper with butter, pepper and salt, and a dash 
of French white wine, and baked in the oven. 
This latter is a great delicacy. 

Julienne Soup. — Cut a carrot, a turnip, part of 
a head of celery, the white part of a leek, and one 
onion, into thin strips, and stew them in a little 
butter till they become slightly brown ; add also a 
little powdered sugar —a teaspoonful ; then strain 
off the butter, and throw the vegetables into some 
good No. 1 Stock. Add a little of the white part 
of a lettuce, cut fine shortly before you serve up 
the soup, and, if possible, a few fresh tarragon leaves. 

Be careful to skim oft' the butter from the stock 
which will rise from the vegetables. Of course all 
of these vegetables are not absolutely essential, but 
where there is a garden, this will be found an 
admirable mixture. 

Kidneys. — Sheep's kidneys are by far the best ; 
next come veal and pig's, while bullock's kidney is 
as a rule hard and strong, but admirably adapted 
for makins: orravv. 

Kidneys, Grilled and Devilled. — Pepper and 
salt the kidney ; if bullock's it must be cut up into 
pieces not larger than half a sheep's. If a sheep's, 
pig's, or calf's kidney, cut it open, leaving the 



202 CHOICE DISHES 

two halves joined by the cord in the middle ; some 
people, however, prefer them grilled whole. Grill 
(see No. 5), and moisten the kidney while grilling 
with a little dripping or butter. When cooked, 
they should be red and juicy in the middle. 

A little piece of butter mixed with some chopped 
parsley should be placed on each when cooked. 

To devil kidneys, use cayenne in addition to 
pepper and salt before cooking. Some devil sauce 
(see Devil Sauce) may be added. 

Kidneys, Fried. — Kidneys of all kinds can be 
cooked in a frying-pan, in a little butter. Be care- 
ful not to overdo them ; they should be red when 
cut. A little water, flour, pepper and salt added 
to the fat in the frying-pan will make a good gravy. 

Kidneys, Stewed. — Cut the sheep's, pig's, or 
calf's kidneys into halves, separating the halves, 
and the bullock's kidneys into pieces about the 
size of half a sheep's kidney. Brown the outside 
quickly, in a frying-pan with a very little fat or 
butter, but do not cook them ; then place them in 
some rich brown gravy to stew (see No, 2) very 
gently. Fry a few small button onions in the 
frying-pan, after you have browned the outside of 
the kidneys, till the onions are nice and brown 
outside, and add these to the stewed kidneys. 
Season with pepper and salt. Stewed kidneys, to 
be nice, should be stewed for some time in gravy 
not much hotter than can be called " fairly warm." 
Make hot very slowly, and w^hen sufficiently hot, 
serve. If the gravy once boils, the kidneys will be 
quite hard. A tablespoonful of sherry may be 
added to a pint of gravy. 



AT SMALL COST. 203 

Kidney Soup. — A good soup can be made from 
tinned kidneys by adding the gravy to some good 
gravy or Stock No. 3 (see No. 10), boiling the 
kidneys in it, and then rubbing all the kidneys 
through a wire sieve. The kidneys themselves, 
unless treated this way, are hard and indigestible. 
Flavour with pepper and salt, and some fried 
onion rubbed through the sieve with the kidney ; 
one large onion to a tin. Add a little sherry. 
The best wine for kidneys is undoubtedly cham- 
pagne. If by chance a little has been left in a 
bottle, dead, this is an admirable means of 
utilising it. 

Lamb, Breast of. — Yery often the breast of 
lamb is the cheapest part. It can be cooked in 
various ways : — 

1. Eemove the bones carefully, and use them to 
help to make a little stock for the gravy. Make a 
little veal stuffing, using the lamb-fat instead of 
suet. Spread the stuffing over the breast, and roll 
it up, tying the ends securely like a beef olive (see 
Beef Olive), and securing the middle. Bake in 
the oven, allowing about twenty minutes to the 
pound for small joints. Bem ember, lamb requires 
more cooking than mutton. Baste as often as 
possible, and serve with some gravy made from the 
bones. 

Peas, spinach, greens, vegetable marrow and 
French beans are all suitable vegetables to be 
eaten with lamb. 

2. Cut up the breast and stew the pieces very 
gently for about an hour. A little stock, not too 
strong, can be used for stewing, or water. Take 



204 CHOICE DISHES 

out the lamb, and boil away the stock till it is 
reduced to less than a i>int. Thicken with a little 
white thickening (see No. 12) or butter and flour, 
and add a little chopped parsley, or, if liked, a 
little chopped mint. Warm up the lamb in this 
sauce without letting it boil, when the meat is in. 
Vegetables suitable, as above. 

Lamb Chops. — Lamb chops should be grilled 
over rather a fierce fire. (See No. 5.) They 
require more time in proportion to size than mutton. 
They should be highly coloured outside, and not 
look red inside, like mutton chops. 

Lamb Cutlets. (See Cutlets.) 

Lamb, Fore-Quarter of, To Roast. — This joint 
can scarcely be too fresh when dressed. Kemove 




FOEE QUARTER OF LAMB. 



the scrag, the shankbone, and the chinebone ; and 
crack the ribs half-way between the edge of the 
breast and the spine. Lay the meat down to a 
quick fire, and baste plentifully from the time of 



AT SMALL COST. 205 

its being warmed through to that when it is ready 
for the table. Like all young meat, lamb should 
be very thoroughly cooked. In carving, separate 
the shoulder from the ribs. This separation is 
sometimes effected before the joint is sent to table, 
but, of course, this must depend upon the wish of 
the carver. Serve the lamb with a cut j)aper 
raffle on the shankbone, and send a little gravy 
made from the roast under it. Mint sauce and 
salad generally accompany this dish. Time : a 
fore-quarter of lamb, weighing ten pounds, will 
require from two hours to two hours and a half. 
The weather and the strength of the fire often 
cause a difference. Probable cost, lid. per pound. 
Sufficient for eight or nine persons. 

Lamb, Leg of, Boiled. — Boil the leg of lamb in 
the usual way. (See No. 1.) Recollect, lamb 
requires rather longer time per pound than mutton. 
Serve mint sauce with boiled lamb, or parsley and 
butter sauce. 

Lamb, Leg of, Roast. — Roast in the usual way 
(see No. 3) before brisk fire or in a quick oven. 
Make it nicely brown. Use a little Aveak stock to 
put ill the dripping-pan for the gravy. Serve mint 
sauce with it. Remember, lamb requires more 
cooking than mutton. Baste as often as possible. 

Lamb, Neck of. Boiled. — Boil in the usual way. 
(See No. 1.) Serve parsley and butter or mint 
sauce with it. Young turnips and carrots, boiled 
separately, should be placed round it alternately. 

Lamb, Shoulder of. Roast. — The shoulder is 
always best roasted and the neck boiled. Roast or 



206 CHOICE DISHES 

bake in the ordinary way. (See No. 3 ; or No. 4.) 
The fire must be fierce. 

Lamb's Fry. — Parboil the sweetbreads. Throw 
them into cokl water, when cokl trim them. They 
can then be egg-and-bread-crumbed (see No. 20), 
but this is by no means necessary. Flour all the 
pieces, and fry in the frying-pan in a little 
dripping, or the fat of some fried bacon, to be 
served with the lamb's fry, Avhich is an improve- 
ment. When nicely browned, pour a little water 
into the dripping-pan, and thicken it with a little 
flour. (See No. 13.) Throw in a little chopped 
parsley, and season rather highly with pepper and 
salt. Time to fry, about ten minutes. 

Lamb's Head. — The head is best parboiled, and 
then baked. After boiling for an hour cut open 
the head, and take out the brains and tongue. 
The head can be sprinkled over with bread crumbs, 
and is best first brushed over with a well beaten- 
up egg. Serve the tongue and brains separately, 
mixing the latter with some chopped parsley, and 
a small pinch of mixed herbs, and a little lemon- 
juice, pepper and salt. See that the tongue is 
sufficiently boiled. Place the tongue in the middle, 
and put the brains round it. 

Lamprey. — The lamprey is like a very tough 
eel. It can be cooked like eel (see Eels), only it 
requires more cooking. Those who have eaten 
lampreys will quite understand Henry the First's 
fatal attack of indigestion. 

Lark Pie. — Larks form a very nice addition to 
a meat pie. If possible make a little liver force- 



AT SMALL COST. 207 

meat (see Liver Forcemeat), and fill the larks 
with it. Add also a little grated nutmeg to the 
gravy of pie. Make the meat-pie in the ordinary 
way. (See Pie, Meat.) 

Larks^ Roast. — Place the larks in a tin in the 
oven, and baste them with butter. "When they have 
been cooking about ten 'minutes, place a piece of 
hot toast on a hot dish, place the larks on it, and 
pour the butter, and whatever gravy has run out, 
over them. Serve a little brown gravy separately. 
(See Gravy.) A little port-wine dregs can be 
added to the gravy for roast larks. 

Lemon Cheesecakes. (See Cheesecakes.) 

Lemon Jelly. (See Jelly.) 

Lemon Pudding, Plain.— Chop up the peel of 
one lemon very finely (see No. 16); add this and 
the juice to an ordinary suet pudding mixture 
made from a quarter of a pound of suet, using 
bread crumbs or not. (See Suet Pudding.) Mix 
all well together, and boil in a cloth (see No. 24) 
or basin. Serve sweet sauce with it. (See Sweet 
Sauce.) 

Lemon Sponge. — Put an ounce of isinglass or 
gelatine into a pint of water, add the rind and 
juice of two lemons, and half a pound of loaf sugar, 
and simmer gently for half an hour. Strain into a 
bowl, and when the mixture is cold and beginning 
to set, which may be known by its becoming thick, 
stir in the whites of two eggs beaten to a firm 
froth, and whisk it briskly until it is of the 
consistency of sponge. Pour it into a damp mould, 
and turn it out before serving. A few drops of 
cochineal may be put in with the eggs, if liked, to 



208 CHOICE DISHES 

give a pink appearance. Time, half an hour to 
whisk the sponge. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient 
for a pint and a half mould. 

Lemon Water Ice. (See Ice, Lemon Water.) 

Lemonade. — Pour a pint of boiling water over 
the juice of four lemons ; sugar can be added to 
taste, and the mixture strained and allowed to get 
cold. If the flavour of the peel is liked, some of 
the sugar can be rubbed on the peel. A much 
larger quantity can be made more economically by 
adding a little essence of lemon and more water. 
Lemonade is far best iced. 

Lentils, Boiled. — Soak the lentils overnight in 
some cold water. Throw away pieces that float. 
Put them into a little boiling water, or, still 
better, greasy stock. When tender strain them, 
and serve them with a little butter mixed in, and 
pepper and salt. 

Lentil Soup. — Treat the lentils exactly as peas, 
and make the soup like pea-soup. (See Pea-soup.) 

Lettuce for Salad. (See Salad.) 

Llebig's Extract of Meat. — This is the most 
important invention, so far as cooking is concerned, 
of modern times. By its help an enormous saving 
is made by enabling us to do without gravy beef. 
It should be remembered that by itself it is of not 
nmch use, but in addition with other forms of 
nourishment it is invaluable. Avoid the numerous 
but absolutely worthless imitations. 

Ling. — Ling is a cheap fish, common on the 
eastern coast of Ensjland. It can be cooked 



AT SMALL COST. 209 

exactly like hake. (See Hake.) Its liver should 
be boiled separate like cod. When the fish is 
baked or fried the liver should be boiled, and 
mixed up in butter sauce, with a little anchovy- 
sauce (grocers') to serve with the fish. Price, often 
not more than 4d. a pound. 

Liver Forcemeat. — Take half a pound of calf's 
liver, cut it into small pieces, and fry it with an 
equal quantity of fat ham or bacon ; also cut up 
two beads of garlic (see Garlic), or a slice of 
onion. Season as follows : — Take a bottle of mixed 
sweet herbs, and turn some out into a fine sieve ; 
shake the sieve over a sheet of paper till nearly 
half a saltspoonful of dust has fallen through ; add 
to this some grated nutmeg, and if possible a 
little powdered bayleaf. When you have a salt- 
spoonful in all, add this to the liver and bacon in 
the frying-pan, with about half a saltspoonful of 
cayenne pepper. When the liver is cooked, rub it 
all through a wire sieve into a basin. Press the 
forcemeat together to make it smooth. This is 
very valuable for all sorts of game pies, such as 
lark pie, or Norwegian grouse pie. A dessert- 
spoonful of this cheap forcemeat makes a very 
nice fritter. (See Fritters.) If you can get any 
livers of poultry or game — sometimes poulterers 
have some to spare — add them to the calf's liver. 
This increases the excellence of the forcemeat. Mush- 
rooms can also be added, and fried with the liver. 

Liver and Bacon. — Cut the liver, whether calf's 

(the best) or bullock's, or pig's, or sheep's, into 

strips about half an inch thick. Fry them in a 

pan with some slices of bacon about equal weights. 

o 



210 CHOICE DISHES 

Commence to fry the bacon only a minute or so 
before you fry the liver. When it is cooked, 
make a little gravy in the frying-pan, by adding 
some water, thickening it with flour, and adding 
pepper and salt. Some persons rub the frying-pan 
with a bead of garlic, or slice of onion. 

Lobster Butter. — Whenever you get a lobster 
with any coral in it, pound the coral with enough 
butter to make a thick paste, add a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, and put it by in a little jar for 
use. This is called lobster butter, and is invalu- 
able for lobster sauce and patties, shrimp sauce 
and patties, &c. 

Lobster Cutlets. — Remove all the meat from a 
lobster, and cut it up in little pieces, with a piece 
of onion the size of the tojD of the thumb down to 
the bottom of the nail, a teaspoonful of chojDped 
parsley, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a pinch of 
cayenne, and a piece of lemon-peel the size and 
thickness of the thumb-nail ; pound all in a mortar 
till it is smooth, and then mix in sufficient lobster 
butter (see Lobster Butter) to make the whole a 
bright red, then add sufficient butter till the 
mixture can be easily moulded ; then form the 
mixture in a quantity of little pieces the size, 
•shape, and thickness of a picnic biscuit. Egg-and- 
bread-crumb these after flouring them (see No. 20), 
and fry in very hot fat (see No. 6), till they are 
brown. Stick a little piece of the tip-end of the 
smaller claws into each to represent the bone of 
the cutlet. Serve with fried parsley. These cutlets 
are none the worse for being kept hot a little 
while in the oven. A moderate-sized lobster will 



AT SMALL COST. 211 

make twenty little cutlets. Some of the meat may- 
be used for lobster sauce, and yet have enough for 
a dish of cutlets. Without plenty of butter the 
cutlets will taste dry. 
Lobster Patties. (See Patties.) 
Lobster, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Lobster Salad Mayonnaise. — Get two or three 
nice French lettuces, see that they are thoroughly 
clean, and if possible avoid washing them. Separate 
the leaves, and see that they are dry, but do not 
cut them. Pile them up as firmly as possible on a 
dish, making a mound of them. Cut up the meat 
of a lobster into small pieces, and place these over 
the top as smoothly as possible. Next : make some 
mayonnaise sauce as thick as butter in summer- 
time. (See Mayonnaise Sauce.) Cover the whole 
over with this. Ornament the edge with the small 
red claws bent, and hard-boiled eggs cut into quar- 
ters. Stick a few French capers, dried from their 
vinegar, into the sauce. Take a little finely-chopped 
parsley on the end of a knife, and holding the knife 
high up, let it fall in a .shower over the white mound. 
Next, if possible, get a little lobster coral in small 
pieces the size of a pin's head, and let them fall. 
These green and red specks on the white make it look 
very pretty. Fillet six anchovies, and lay them cross- 
ways near the base of the mound, as well as a dozen 
olives, the stones of which should be removed. If the 
salad is large, a few small red crayfish — one at the 
top, and a few round the base — form an excellent 
additional garnisli. Cucumber peeled and sliced thin 
can be placed round the edge of the dish as a border. 

Lobster Salad, Plain. — Cut up all the meat of 



212 CHOICE DISHES 

the lobster, mix it with some salad, and dress as 
an ordinary salad. (See Salad.) 

Lobster Sauce. — Make half a pint of butter 
sauce, using the water in which the shell of a 
lobster has been boiled after being broken up. 
Mix into the butter sauce a teaspoonful of lobster 
butter — this will make it a bright red ; add a salt- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of the meat of a 
lobster. Add a very little lemon juice — about a 
saltspoonful — the very last thing of alL The 
remainder of the meat of a lobster should be 
utilised for making lobster salad or cutlets. (Sea 
Lobster Cutlets.) 

Macaroni Cheese. — Put a quarter of a pound of 
pipe macaroni into a saucepan with a little salt, 
and sufficient boiling milk and water to cover it. 
Let it boil until it is quite tender but firm, then 
put a layer of it into a well-buttered dish, and over 
that sprinkle some bread crumbs and a mixture of 
Parmesan and Cheshire cheese. Place three or 
four lumps of butter on it, and repeat until the 
dish is full, being careful to have bread crumbs at 
the top. Pour a little butter warmed, but net 
oiled, over the crumbs, and brown the preparation 
before a clear fire, or with a salamander, but do 
not put it in the oven for too long, or it will taste 
of oil. Serve with salt and mustard. Time, about 
thirty minutes. Riband macaroni may be used if 
preferred, and it will not require so much boiling. 
Parmesan cheese is far best, but grated cheese of 
any description will do. The remains of cheese 
that has got dry can be grated for the purpose. 



AT SMALL COST. 213 

Macaroni (Italian Fashion). — Boil a teacupful of 
macaroni until tender, strain it off, and put it in a 
stewpan with a little butter, pepper and salt. 
Add a tablespoonful of tomato pulp. This is now- 
sold in bottles at all grocers. Serve hot and hand 
grated cheese separately. Parmesan is best, but 
any grated cheese will do. The stewpan can be 
rubbed with a bead of garlic. (See Gaelic.) 

Macaroni Soup. — Boil some macaroni till it is 
tender — about twenty minutes. Drain it off, and 
serve it cut up into 2-inch pieces in some clear 
Stock Ko. 1 or No. 3. (See No. 10.) 

Macedoines in Tins. — Macedoines are mixed 
vegetables sold in tins. They usually consist of 
carrot, turnip, peas, beans, &c., and are exceedingly 
useful to put in clear Stock No. 1 or No. 2 (see 
No. 10) to make soup, or they can be used as a 
garnish to cutlets, &c. Being cooked, they only 
require warming-up. They can also be drained off 
and dressed as a salad. (See Salad.) 

Mackerel. — Mackerel can be boiled (see No. 1), 
and served with parsley and butter sauce. (See 
Parsley.) A little vinegar is a great improve- 
ment with this sauce ; this can be added on the 
plate. Mackerel can be cut open and grilled (see 
No. 5), and served with a little butter and chopped 
parsley placed in it, as well as a little lemon-juice 
squeezed over it. Or it can be baked in a pie-dish 
with equal quantities of vinegar and water, and a 
few peppercorns, and eaten cold. 

Maigre Soup. (See Soup Maigre.) 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. — Take a small quantity 



214 CHOICE DISHES 

of Bechamel sauce (See Bechamel) ; say, half a 
pint. Make this hot in a small saucepan, then dis- 
solve in an ounce of butter ; add a brimming tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a 
lemon. Flavour with pepper and salt. 

A cheaper way, but not so good, is to add a brim- 
ming teaspoonful of chopped parsley and the juice 
of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt, to half 
a pint of good butter sauce. (See Butter Sauce.) 

N.B. — Anything, such as potatoes, sole, salmon 
cutlets, &c., served '' a Icl Maitre d^ Hotel, ^^ simply 
means that they are served iTp in this sauce. 

Marrow Bones. — Have the bottom of the bones 
cut so that they will stand upright. Cover the 
ends where the marrow is with a flour-and-water 
paste. Boil them in a saucepan, but do not let the 
water come higher than half-way up the bone. 
Time to boil, rather more tlian an hour. Serve a 
hot dry toast with them. The marrow should be 
scooped out, quickly spread lightly over the toast, 
and then freely sprinkled with pepper and salt. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. — This is a most delicious 
sauce, very easy to make, if care is taken to observe 
every minute detail given in the directions for 
making it. Mayonnaise sauce is simply yolk of 
egg and oil beaten to a butter. This butter is 
only formed under the following circumstances. 
First, the oil must not be warm, and yet it must be 
bright and not at all frozen. If in summer, there- 
fore, it will be well to stand the bottle of oil in 
some cold spring water, or some water with a 
piece of ice in it, for about half an hour. If in 
winter, and the oil is cloudy, place the bottle in 



AT SMALL cost'. 215 

lukewarm water till the oil becomes perfectly 
bright, but be careful not to let it get too warm. 
Next, take a basin, and break an egg, carefully 
separating the yolk from the white. (See Ko. 15.) 
Get rid of all the white, and place the yolk in 
the basin, break it, and remove the thread that 
very likely will cling to it. Next, beat up 
the yolk with a fork, and drop some oil on it 
drop by drop, very slowly at first. Gradually it 
will become thicker and thicker, as more oil is 
added. When it gets fairly thick you can add the 
oil a teaspoonful, or even more, at a time, but you 
must keep beating. 

KecoUect, to get mayonnaise sauce really thick 
like butter, you must add plenty of oil and beat it 
up patiently. AYhen it is as thick as ordinary 
fresh butter on a summer's day it is finished. 
Mayonnaise sauce is flavoured with pepper and 
salt and vinegar. The pepper should be white, 
and so also the vinegar. As mayonnaise sauce is 
generally required to mask over surfaces, it is 
desirable to have it as thick as possible. Instead, 
therefore of adding ordinary vinegar to give it a 
slight acidity, get some concentrated vinegar at the 
chemists in the form of dilute acetic acid. Half a 
teaspoonful of this is equal to a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, yet you have the slight acid flavour 
without making the sauce thin. The common 
cause of failure in making mayonnaise sauce is — 
first, that English cooks think it should be liquid 
instead of a solid. Secondly: they put the salt and 
pepper in at starting, or else add vinegar and oil 
alternately. The mayonnaise sauce made this way 
is more of a salad dressing than real mayonnaise. 



216 CHOICE DISHES 

Meat, Cold. — When meat is served cold, it 
should always be placed on a clean dish and 
ornamented with a little parsley. In the case of 
beef, scraped horse-radish may be added. If it 
be veal, a little glaze (see Glaze) rubbed over it 
makes a wonderful difference in its appearance. 
So also in all kinds of cold fowl or game. (For 
the various methods- of warming up cold meat, see 
Curry, Hash, Mince, Rissoles.) Never attempt 
to spoil a cold joint by making it hot in the oven 
the second day, even if underdone ; it is an idle as 
well as wasteful procedure. There is great waste 
in dry ing-up joints as well as in over-cooking them. 

Milk, Condensed. — Swiss milk in tins is a great 
assistance in making all kinds of sweets. Cream is 
very expensive, but a pint of milk in which a 
tablespoonful of Swiss milk has been dissolved, and 
a yolk of egg beaten up, is a very good substitute. 

Mince. — Mince is almost always made from 
meat that has been cooked before, and the chief 
point to be considered is how to avoid over- cooking 
it, which is very likely to happen considering how 
very small are the pieces to be warmed up. Take 
the remains of any cold beef or mutton, remove all 
the skin and gristle, and chop the meat very fine. 
Take sufficient Stock No. 3 to moisten the mince, 
and make it hot in a stewpan. Chop up a small 
piece of onion very fine — a piece as big as half the 
thumb for every pound of meat — and also a little 
parsley — half a teaspoonful ; boil these in the stock 
for five minutes, and add some pepper and salt, 
and a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce. Have some 
fried bread ready, or some sippets. A few minutes 



AT SMALL COST. 217 

before the mince is wanted, warm it up in the 
stock, flavoured as we hare said, watch it, heat it 
slowly, and as soon as it is liot turn it on to the dish, 
place the bread round it, and serve at once. 
Underdone beef (or mutton) makes exceedingly 
nice mince if it is exposed to the action of the fire 
only just long enough to make it hot through. 

Yeal is best warmed up in the same manner, 
with a little white stock boiled away mixed with a 
little boiled milk. Some chopped parsley may be 
added, as well as a little veal stuffing (very little) 
if any is left. Only add just sufficient stock to 
moisten the mince. No Harvey sauce should be 
used. Poached eggs are xerj nice on minced veal. 

Mince Meat. — Take three apples, three lemons, 
one pound of raisins, three quarters of a pound of 
currants, one pound of the best beef suet, a quarter 
of a pound of raw beef, two pounds of moist sugar, 
four ounces of candied peel, a quarter of a rind of 
a fresh orange, one good teaspoonful of powdered 
spices — composed of equal quantities of cinnamon, 
cloves, and nutmeg — one glass of port wine, and 
half a pint of brandy. 

Peel the apples, and cut out the cores very 
carefully, and then bake the pieces till they are 
soft. Squeeze the lemons, and cut away the white 
pappy part, and boil the lemon-peel till it is fairly 
soft. The raisins must be carefully stoned, and 
the currants washed, picked, and dried. Chop the 
suet very finely (see No. 16), as well as the raw 
meat and lemon-peel. 

Mix all the ingredients well together, and add 
the brandy last of all. It must be very thoroughly 



218 CHOICE DISHES 

stirred. Press the mincemeat down in a jar, and 
place a piece of brandied paper over the top. The 
mincemeat should be occasionally stirred, and a 
fresh piece of paper added. By adding a spoonful 
of brandy every two or three months, this will keep 
good for a year. 

Mince Pies. — Make some good paste (see Paste, 
Puff) ; roll it out very thin ; butter some patty- 
pans ; line the pans with the paste ; put in a 
generous heap of mincemeat; cover over with 
some more thin paste ; join the edges, and trim. 
Bake in the oven, shake a little powdered sugar 
over the top, and serve very hot. 

N.B. — Two mince pies, with mincemeat in them, 
are worth more than four mince pies without. 

Mint Sauce. — Chop up enough mint, very finely* 
to fill a tablespoon piled up. Put this mint in a 
tureen, with three tablespoonfuls of water and a 
dessertspoonful of moist sugar. Press and squeeze 
the mint, and let it soak as long as possible. Add 
one tablespoonful of vinegar. 

N.B. — A small pinch of mint floating in half a 
pint of vinegar is not mint sauce. 

Mock-Turtle Soup. — The best mock-turtle soup 
is made from calf's head, and can be made either 
thick or clear. Mock-turtle soup is so far the 
nicest mode of cooking calf's head that I will give 
directions for making the soup from the head 
direct, and not from the remains of calf's head 
cooked before some other way, though the same- 
directions will show how the latter can be done. 
To make clear mock-turtle, proceed as follows : — 

Proceed in every respect to make stock No. 1. 



AT SMALL COST. 219 

(See No. 10.) Get half a calf s head ; remove the 
tongue and brains (these will make a nice entree) ; 
soak the head, and remove all blood-stains ; wash 
carefully where the brains have been. Place the 
half calf s head in the saucepan, or stock-pot, wdth 
the knuckle of veal and stock, and let it simmer 
very gently for a couple of hours. Next, take out 
the calfs head; cut off all the meat from the 
bones ; cut the flesh into neat pieces about two 
inches square, and put them by on a dish, keeping 
the pieces flat by placing another dish on the top 
of them. Pour any juice or gravy that has run 
out back into the stock-pot. When the stock is 
finished, strain it, and, if not bright, clear it. (See 
No. 18.) The extract of meat had better be added 
after the stock is cleared. As half a calfs head 
should make three quarts of soup, all the ingredients 
in making the stock should be doubled, including the 
veal . Next, place in a small stewqmn two good table- 
spoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs (see Herbs, Sweet), 
one, if possible, of sweet Basil (Basil is sold, dried, 
in sixpenny bottles), and a teaspoonful of penny- 
royal. This last is not essential, but is an improve- 
ment. Pour about half a pint of the clear stock on 
this, and let it boil gently for some time, keeping 
the lid close down. After it has boiled for twenty 
minutes, remove the ste^vpan from the fire, and 
let these herbs get nearly cold ; then strain them 
through a gravy-strainer, pressing the herbs wdth a 
spoon to extract as much flavour as possible. 
Next, place the soup in a large saucepan on the 
fire, and put in the meat, wdiich is probably tender ; 
if not, it must simmer in the soup till it is. 
Flavour the soup with cayenne pepper, ordinary 



220 CHOICE DISHES 

pepper, and salt. Add the juice of the herbs 
gradually, till you get the right flavour. (Theso 
herbs vary so much in strength, according to tha 
time they have been picked, that exact quantities 
cannot be given.) Probably the whole of what [ 
have mentioned will have to be added, Next, add 
half a pint of golden sherry, and the juice of half 
a lemon. Have ready a few egg-balls, in which a 
little finely-choj^ped parsley is mixed with the eggs, 
which have been set in boiling water. Throw these 
into the soup, and serve. (See Egg-balls.) Three 
quarts of mock-turtle vvdll require a brimming 
dessertspoonful of extract of meat, or even more. 
If the herbs are stale, more must be added in 
making the herb-juice. The bones can be put on 
for making Stock No. 3. 

Mock-Turtle Soup, Thick. — Proceed exactly as 
in making clear mock-turtle soup, only substitute 
No. 3 Stock for No. 1 — i.e., bones instead of 
knuckle of veal. (See No. 10.) Of course you 
need not clear the soup. After cutting the meat 
off the head, put back the bones of the calf's head 
into the stock-pot. Make the herb-juice as before, 
adding, if anything, rather more herbs. Thicken 
with bro^vn thickening (see No. 12), and carefully 
skim off the grease. This requires patience. (See 
Stock No. 4, No. 10.) Add the same quantities 
of extract of meat, sherry, eggballs, &c. The 
amount of thickening required will be considerable. 
This soup is always best made the day before. 
Half a calf's head will make three quarts of soup. 

Mock-Turtle Soup from Pig's Head. — Proceed 
exactly as in making thick mock- turtle soup from 



AT SMALL COST. 221 

calf's lieacl. The difficulty is to get rid of the fat. 
This soup will always have a sUgJitly greasy taste, 
but is still very excellent. It is only suitaLle in 
winter. To get rid of the fat, let it simmer gently 
by the fire. Throw in occasionally a little cold 
water. This will send the fat to the surface. 
Skim it, and let it boil away. (See Stock, No. 4. 
No. 10.) Then throw in some more cold water, 
&c. In winter-time, this gives but little trouble, 
Make it a day or two before it is wanted. A 
whole pig's head will make as much as half a calf s 
head. Less wine may be added, but not less 
lierljs. No egg-balls are necessary. 

Moselle Cup. (See Cups.) 

Muffins. — Toast the muffin thoroughly on both 
^ides ; then cut, or better, tear it open, and butter 
the inside plentifully. Put the two buttered pieces 
together, and serve in a dish placed on a basin of 
boiling water. Cover the muffins with a hot cover. 
Muffins are an extravagant dish, as, to be nice, 
they should nearly swim in good fresh butter. 
Some persons sprinkle salt over muffins, from a 
salt-box like a pej^per-box, called a "muffineer." 

N.B. — When muffins are served to be eaten 
with meat, cut them across right through both 
halves once. When they are served to be eaten 
alone, such as at tea-time, cut them into quarters. 

Mulligatawny Soup. — The best meat to serve 
up in Mulligatawny soup is either rabbit or 
chicken, but sometimes a little veal is used ; in 
this case take care that the veal has not been 
boiled till it is uneatable. If fowl or rabbit is 
used, be sure to extract as much goodness as you 



222 CHOICE DISHES 

can out of the bones by boiling tliem in the stock. 
Put the meat of the rabbit or fowl by on a i)late 
till wanted. Proceed in every respect to make the 
soup as if you were making curry sauce, only add 
three times the quantity of stock. Thicken with 
brown thickening. (See No. 12.) Add the meat 
to the soup the last thing, and hand boiled rice 
with the soup. (See Eice boiled for Curry.) 

Mullet, Red. — The best way to cook red mullet 
is to carefully wrap it up in well-oiled paper, with 
plenty of butter, pepper and salt, and bake it in 
the oven. Never clean the fish ; the liver is the 
best part. Time to bake, about twenty to twenty- 
five minutes for small fish. Send to table in the 
paper. Not more than two can be cooked in one paper. 
Mullets are best cooked one in each paper. They 
are very pretty served without the paper, but the fish 
is too delicious to sacrifice flavour to appearances. 

Mullet, Grey. (See Grey Mullet.) 

Mushrooms. — In many parts of the country 
mushrooms are so plentiful that their cost, like 
blackberries, may be considered almost nil. Great 
care shpuld be exercised by no\dces in picking 
them. The most common mistakes are made by 
Cockney tourists and the inliabitants of large 
towns, who are unable to distinguish between edible 
mushrooms and poisonous fungi. 

It is exceedingly unwise to rely upon mere book- 
learning in selecting mushrooms, as mistakes may 
prove fatal. The motto should be, " When in 
doubt go without." Of the mushrooms generally 
eaten in England, and which may be partaken of 
Avitli impunity, the chief is the common mushroom 



AT SMALL COST. 223 

{Agaricus camjjestris). "When eaten," says Dr. 
Lancaster, " this mushroom should be fresh 
gathered, as after keeping it acquires properties 
that render it liable to disagree. The Agaricus 
camjMStris may, however, be dried quickly, and 
kept wholesome for any length of time, or they 
may be powdered and thus kept. When salted 
fresh and pressed they yield the sauce known by 
the name of ' ketchup,' or ' catsup.' When arrow- 
root and weak broths are distasteful to persons 
\y^ith delicate stomachs, a little seasoning with 
ketchup will generally form an agreeable change." 
The mushroom itself may be cooked in a variety of 
ways. Some roast them, basting them with melted 
butter, and serve with white wine sauce. They 
may be added to patties and fricassees. In France 
they steep them in oil, adding salt, pepper, and a 
little garlic ; they are then tossed up in a small 
ste'svpan over a brisk fire, with chopped parsley and 
a little lemon-juice. The morel is occasionally 
found in Great Britain. In the opinion of fungus- 
eaters it is a great luxury. It is prepared in the 
same way as the common mushroom, but its flavour 
is more delicate. Ordinarily, it is obtained from 
our Italian warehouses, but, if sought for about 
the beginning of summer, it may not unfrequently 
be found in our orchards and woods. Another 
fungus met with in English markets is the truffle. 
It is more uncommon in this country than the 
morel, but it is imported in considerable quantities 
from France. Trufiles grow entirely underground, 
and trufile hunting dogs, and even swine, are 
trained to discover them. They impart a fine 
flavour to soups and gravies, and enter into the 



224 CHOICE DISHES 

composition of stuffing for boars' heads, fisli, and 
other kinds of animal food. In his valuable Avork 
on the " Esculent Funguses of England," Dr. 
Badliam remarks of the odours and tastes of 
mushrooms that both one and the other are far 
more numerous in this species of plant than in any 




MUSHROOMS. 



other with which we are acquainted. Some of 
them give out powerfully disagreeable odours, 
whilst others yield the most agreeable of perfumes. 
The authority just mentioned enumerates no fewer 
than forty-eight species of mushroom, all of which ' 
are good to eat. The great objection, however, to 
mushrooms, is that some of them are very poisonous; 
and mistakes occur so often that only persons 
skilled in distinguishing the various species ought 



AT SMALL COST. 225 

to be trusted for administering them indiscrimi- 
nately as food. On the continent persons are 
specially appointed to examine all fungi sent to 
market, so that only those which are safe to eat 
are allowed to be sold. According to Dr. Badham, 
the majority of fungi are harmless, but his account 
of the poisonous effects of the minority, and the 
post-mortem appearance of the organs of those 
who have died through j^artaking of them, are 
enough to alarm the most stout-hearted. 

Mushrooms, Fried. — The simplest form of cook- 
ing mushrooms is to fry them. Peel the mushrooms 
and cut off the stalks, and place them in a frying- 
pan, with a little butter ; fry gently till they are 
quite tender, season with a little pepper, and pour 
the contents of the frying-pan over them. The 
trimmings of mushrooms are valuable for flavouring 
gravies, kc. 

Mushrooms (au Gratin). — Scoop out the inside 
of some nice round cup mushrooms, after peeling 
them, and cut off and peel the stalks ; chop up these 
last with some onion, parsley, a pinch of thyme (say, 
a piece of onion the size of the top of the thumb, 
and a teaspoonful of parsley, and a piece of lemon- 
peel the size of a sixpence, for six mushrooms) ; 
fry these in some scraped bacon-fat, flavour with 
pepper and salt, and add some bread crumbs in 
sufficient quantity to fill the six cups hollowed out. 
Cover with bread crumbs and bread raspings. Cook 
these filled cups very slowly in a stewpan, with a 
little oil or melted fat, covering over carefully to 
keep in the flavour. Serve with or without brown 
gravy, poured round, not over. 
P 



226 CHOICE DISHES 

Mushroom Sauce. — Peel and cut up some mush- 
rooms — button mushrooms are best — and boil them 
in some good rich brown gravy. (See Gravy.) 
Sufficient mushroom must be added to make the 
gravy about as thick as egg sauce. 

Mussels. — Mussels are an exceedingly cheap 
and nice form of food, being generally sold at one 
penny a quart. Take two quarts of mussels; wash 
them thoroughly and scrub them with a brush. 
Place them in salt and water for two or three 
hours to clean themselves from sand. Make the 
water as salt as sea-water. Take them out an 
hour before you want them. Take a saucepan ; 
put into it a pint of water, two slices of onion and 
two slices of lemon, a few sprigs of parsley and a 
pinch of thyme. Bring the water to a boil. Then 
put in the mussels ; and as soon as they are open 
they are done. Serve them in a soup tureen, with 
bread and butter. Vinegar and pepper can be 
eaten with them like oysters. Their season is the 
same as oysters. Send the liquor in which they 
were heated up in the tureen with them. 

Mutton Broth. — Take two pounds of what is 
known as the scrag-end of the neck of mutton; 
remove as much as possible every particle of fat. 
Put it in a quart of cold water, with a slice of 
onion and a saltspoonful of salt. Let it simmer 
very gently for three or four hours. Skim occa- 
sionally. The broth should be then strained off, 
and allowed to get cold. Take off all the fat, and 
warm up when required. Should pearl barley be 
Avished in it, take a tablespoonful of pearl barley 
and wash it, boil it in water for about ten minutes, 



AT SMALL COST. 227 

strain it off and throw away the water ; boil this 
now washed barley in the broth. The outside of 
barley is always dirty. When not required for 
invalids, some chopped parsley may be added to 
the broth, as well as other vegetables such as 
turnips, carrots, leeks. The meat may also be 
stewed for a much shorter time, and served in the 
broth. 

Mutton, Boiled. — The best joints for boiling are 
the leg, the neck, the breast, and sometimes^ the 
loin. The three latter joints should be carefully 
trimmed from the fat, as the fat swells so in boil- 
ing, that the smallest quantity only should be left 
on the joint. The breast of mutton is also very 
nice stewed. (See No. 2.) Directions for boiling 
are fully given in No. 1. Boiled turnips should 
always accompany boiled mutton. Carrots, and 
almost every other kind of vegetables, are also 
suitable. Serve capers or caper sauce with all 
boiled mutton. 

Some of the liquor in which the mutton is boiled 
should be poured over the meat, and a second 
supply sent up boiling hot, to warm up the joint 
in time for the "second help." 

Mutton Chops. — Mutton chops are always best 
grilled. (See No. 5. ) Trim the chops before grill- 
ing, and avoid having too much end. It is more 
economical to cut off the ends of chops, and make 
an Irish stew with them, than to have them left 
on the plates, as is often the case. 

When chops are cooked in a frying-pan, avoid 
having too much fat, as it makes the meat 
sodden. Have just sufficient fat to prevent the 



228 CHOICE DISHES 

chop burning. The flavour of a chop cooked in a 
frying-pan is very inferior to one cooked on a grid- 
iron. When the meat is not of a superior quality; 
perhaps the frying-pan is best. Make in this case 
a little gravy, with flour, pepper, ketchup, &c., in 
the frying-pan, with a little water. 

Mutton, Curried. (See Curry.) 

Mutton Cutlets. (See Cutlets.) 

Mutton, Hashed. (See Hash.) 

Mutton, Loin of, Roast. (See No. 3.) — This 
joint is often a very extravagant one, owing to the 
exceedingly wasteful palates of the persons who dine 
off" it. By far the best and most economical way 
to treat a loin of mutton is to bone it. Cut up the 
upper part for cutlets (see Cutlets) ; make a small 
Irish stew of the ends. (See Irish Stew.) Stew 
the fillet, or cook the fillet whole as a cutlet — a 
most delicious dish. Make the bones into stock, 
and the fat into a pudding, or run it down into 
dripping. 

Another way is to bone (see ^NTo. 22) the loin, 
fill it with veal stuffing (see Yeal Stuffing), roll 
it up, tie it securely round with string, and bake 
it in the oven ; serve with some rich broAvn gravy. 
■ A loin of mutton boned, rolled, and stuflTed, is 
very nice cold. 

Mutton, Minced. (See Mixce.) 

Mutton Pie. — Cold mutton, especially when 
underdone, makes a very nice pie. Cut the mutton 
in slices, use the bone to make Stock No. 3. Put 
the meat in a pie-dish, and lay it in alternate 



AT SMALL COST. 



2l>9 



layers with some potatoes sliced thin. Season with 
a piece of onion as big as the top of the thumb 
chopped fine, a pinch of mixed sweet herbs, a little 
chopped parsley (about a teaspoonful), some pepper 
and salt ; cover with some good stock, make an 
ordinary crust, cover, and bake. If the stock is 
good, and sets into a jelly, this pie is very nice 
cold for breakfast or lunch. A sheep's kidney 
sliced and added is a great improvement. 

Mutton, Roast. — The best joints for roasting are 
the leg, the haunch, the saddle, the loin, the 
shoulder, and sometimes the neck. Mutton should 
not be roasted too fresh, especially the haunch and 
leg. The former is often covered over with a 
flour-and- water paste during the earlier period of 
roasting. When nearly done the paste is removed, 
the joint brought nearer the fire, basted with butter, 
and quickly browned of a mahogany colour. Red 
currant jelly should be served with haunch of 
mutton and saddle of mutton. 

The leg of mutton is really part of the haunch, 




HAUNCH OF ilUTTOX, TO CARVE. 



and is sometimes carved haunch-fashion, i.e., 
parallel with the bone. 



230 



CHOICE DISHES 



In carving a haunch of mutton make an in- 
cision from A B with the point of the knife, 
holding the knife rather upright, then cut slices 
down the joint from a to c. After a few slices 
are cut, the gravy will settle in the meat, and a 
little can be poured over each slice with a spoon. 
Take care in carving the haunch not to let the 
gravy run out of the joint into tlie dish. 




SADDLE OF MUTTON. 



In carving a saddle, cut slices longways out of 
the back, putting the knife into the meat near the 
tail, and bringing it down parallel with the spine. 
The latter part of the slice will contain plenty of 
fat. 

In small dinner-parties where the joints are not 
carved on the table, a leg of mutton cut haunch- 
fashion, or a loin cut saddle-fashion, will often serve 
for those larger joints. 

Full directions for roasting will be found in 
No. 3. Always have a little fresh gravy Jiot to be 
poured over the joint some little time after it has 
been carved — in time for the second help. 



AT SMALL COST. 231 

Almost any kind of vegetables may be served 
-vvitli roast mutton. 

Onion sauce (see Onion Sauce) should be served 
with roast shoulder of mutton, and is often sent in 
"with a leg. A saddle is generally esteemed the 
prime joint. At one of the most popular restaurants 
in London, chiefly noted for its joints, a dozen 
saddles are cut up to one haunch. 

Nettles, Spring, to Boil. — In many country 
places nettles are eaten freely as a vegetable in the 
early part of the year, as they are considered 
excellent for purifying the blood. The young light 
green leaves only should be taken. They must be 
washed carefully and boiled in two waters, a little 
salt and a very small piece of soda being put in the 
last water. When tender, turn them into a 
colander, press the water from them; put them 
into a hot vegetable dish, score them across three 
or four times, and serve. Send melted butter to 
table in a tureen. Time, about a quarter of an 
hour to boil. 

Norfolk Dumplings. — The simplest way of 
making Norfolk dumplings is to order a few 
muffins from the bakers, boil them for about 
twenty minutes in some water, and serve with 
some sweet sauce. The muffins will swell con- 
siderably. 

Normandy Pippins. — Soak the pippins in water 
overnight, stew them gently for two or three hours 
in a little water, with sufficient sugar to make the 
juice a syrup, and also a few strips of lemon-peel, 
a few cloves, and a small stick of cinnamon. When 



232 CHOICE DISHES 

quite tender, take them out without breaking 
them, and place them in a glass dish. Bring the 
syrup to a boil, and colour it pink with cochineal, 
pour over the stewed pippins, and let them get 
cold. A small glass of port wine added to the 
syrup is a great improvement. 

Noyeau Ice Cream. (See Ice Cream.) 

Nutmeg. — Nutmegs are exceeding valuable for 
flavouring custards, cakes, puddings, (fee, and many 
kinds of sauces, including butter sauce. As the 
flavour of nutmeg is very strong, care should be 
taken not to over-flavour delicate sauces — hence, 
directions will often be given as " flavour with a 
suspicion of nutmeg." This is best done by 
rubbing a nutmeg once or twice across a grater, 
letting fall what is scraped, then flipping the 
grater over the sauce. Sufficient will generally 
drop to make the " suspicion." 

Oatmeal Gruel. (See Gruel,) 

Oatmeal Porridge. (See Porridge.) 

Olives. — Olives are sold preserved in salt and 
water in bottles. They are a popular dish for 
dessert, being sent up as they are in a little of the 
liquor in a glass dish. When used for garnishing 
salads, salmis, cfec, they should be stoned. For 
this purpose cut them longways, keeping the edge 
of the knife against the stone the whole time. 
When the stone comes out this strip will roll up, 
and look like a whole olive. 

Olive, Beef. (See Beef Olive.) 



AT SMALL COST. 233 

Omelet, Savoury. — In making omelets it is 
absolutely essential to have a clean frying-pan. 
As a rule it is safest to keep a frying-pan especially 
for omelets. It is impossible to make a nice- 
looking omelet in a frying-pan that has been in the 
least burnt, or, as a rule, that has been used for 
general purposes. Eggs may be fried in an omelet- 
pan, or pancake, but no meat should ever be 
cooked in it. 

Chop up very fine a piece of onion as big as the 
top of the thumb, some parsley — a teaspoonful 
when chopped — and chop with the parsley a pinch 
of mixed sweet herbs (see Herbs) — as much as 
can be taken up with the finger and thumb. 
Break three eggs into a basin, and beat them up 
{No. 15) till they froth ; add a saltspoonful of salt, 
and half a one of pepper, and the chopped onion 
and parsley, Szc. Melt two ounces of butter in an 
omelet-pan (a clean frying-pan that has never 
cooked meat), and when it froths in the pan pour 
in the beaten eggs, &c., and stir quickly, scraping 
the bottom of the fi-ying-pan with a spoon to 
prevent the mixture sticking and burning. As 
soon as this mixture begins to set, scrape it up 
into rather less than half of the omelet-pan, so as 
to make it a semicircle in shape ; slacken the 
heat, and as soon as the mixture ceases to run, 
take the omelet-pan off the fire, and hold it m 
front of the fire, slanting the omelet-pan as much 
as possible consistent with not dropping the 
omelet. This will make the omelet lighter. The 
moment the top of the omelet show symptoms of 
changing colour, i.e., of getting brown, place it on 
a dish, moving it with a slice similar to one used 



234 CHOICE DISHES 

for fried eggs. Some rich brown gravy may be 
poured round the base, or the omelet can be served 
without. Some cooks add a tablespoonful of milk 
to the e£>'o's. 

Omelet Souffle. — An omelet souffle should be 
served in the same dish in which it is baked, and 
should be sent to table with the greatest expedition 
after it is taken out of the oven, as it falls and 
grows heavy very quickly, Break half a dozen 
fresh eggs into separate bowls, separating the yolks 
from the whites. Whisk four of the yolks, and mix 
with them a teaspoonful of dry flour, three table- 
spoonfuls of finely-powdered sugar, a small pinch of 
salt, and any flavouring that may be preferred, such 
as grated nutmeg, lemon or orange rind, vanilla, &c. 
Butter the souffle-pan, to keep the omelet from 
sticking to it, whisk the whites of the six eggs to 
a firm froth, mix them lightly with the yolks, pour 
the mixture into the pan, and bake in a quick oven. 
When it is well risen and brightly browned on the 
top, the omelet is done enough. Sift a little sugar 
over it very expeditiously, and serve. Some cooks 
put a hot flannel round the pan to prevent its 
cooling on the way to the dining-room. Time to 
bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. 
Sufficient for two or three persons. 

Omelet, with Ham or Bacon. Omelet, with 
Kidney. Omelet, with Oysters. — Whenever an 
omelet has any meat served with it — such as 
kidneys, ham, bacon, oysters — let the omelet set in 
the frying-pan round ; that is, do not scrape it up 
into one side of the omelet-pan. When the omelet 
has nearly set, place a large gravy spoonful of 



AT SMALL COST. 235 

stew'ecl kidneys cut up small (see Kidneys), or a 
few slices of grilled ham or bacon (see Bacon, 
Grilled), or a gravy spoonful of scalloped oysters 
(see Oysters, Scalloped) — whichever is used — on 
one half of the omelet in the pan ; lift the other 
half with a slice and cover over. This must be 
done just before it quite sets — when about a table- 
spoonful still runs. Take the omelet-pan off the 
fire, and with a spoon scrapes what little is still 
unset round to the edges where the two flaps meet 
over the meat. Hold in front of the fire as 
before. 

Omelet, Sweet. — Proceed exactly as in making 
a savoury omelet, only add a dessertspoonful of 
powdered sugar instead of the onion, herbs, pepper 
and salt. A pinch of salt should be beaten up 
with the eggs, with the sugar. When the omelet 
is finished shake some powdered sugar over it. A 
sweet omelet is much improved by a saltspoonful 
of Essence of Yanilla being added to the beaten 
eggs. 

Omelet with Kirseh. — Make a sweet omelet, and 
heat a tablespoonful of kirseh, ])y holding a light 
under the spoon, As soon as the spirit catches 
fire pour it round the omelet, and serve flaming. 

Omelet with Pink Noyeau. — Take a tablespoon- 
ful of brandy, and add to it five or six drops of 
essence of almonds, and a few drops of cochineal to 
make it pink. Light this like the kirseh, and pour 
it round a sweet omelet, and serve flaming. Hum 
is also very good burnt with omelets. 

Omelet with Jam. — Make a sweet omelet, only 



236 CHOICE DISHES 

let it set round like a savoury one in which meat is 
ahout to be added, place a large tablespoonfid of 
jam on one side, fold the omelet over, and finish as 




OMELET-PAN. 



directed above. Sift some powdered sugar over the 
top. Apricot jam is the best. Strawberry or rasp- 
berry jam are almost equally good, and a very 
nice sweet omelet is made with a tablespoonful of 
marmalade added instead of jam. 

Onion Sauce. — Parboil three good-sized onions, 
strain them, remove the core, and choi? them finely 
on a chopping-board. Put them into half a pint 
of milk, and stew them gently for half an hour, 
Thicken the mixture slightly with a little white 
thickening (see No. 12), or with a little butter and 
flour. Season with a little pepper and salt. If 
the onion sauce is liked rather mild, use Spanish 
onion — one large Spanish onion will be sufficient 
for half a pint of milk. 

Onions, Spanish, Baked, &C. — Place a saucer in a 
saucepan, and add enough Avater just to cover the 
saucer. Place a Spanish onion in the saucer, and 
let it steam till tender — about three hours. 

Spanish onions can be baked in the oven, with a 
little butter to present them sticking. Time, about 



XT SMALL COST. 237 

three hours. Some cooks remove the core and fill 
in with butter and flour mixed. 

Onions^ Spanish, Pickled. — The remains o£ a cold 
Spanish onion makes an excellent pickle or salad, 
dressed -with oil and vinegar like an ordinary salad. 

Orange Jelly. (See Jelly.) 

Orange Fritters. (See Fritters). — Divide the 
orange into sections, sometimes called pigs, remove 
all the white part, but do not break the skin, dijD 
each piece into brandy, then into powdered sugar, 
and batter and fry. (See Fritters and Batter.) 

Orange Water Ice. (See Ice, Oraxge Water.) 

Ox- foot Soup. — A nice soup, very much resem- 
bling mock-turtle soup, can be made from ox-feet, 
or, as they are sometimes called, " cow-heels," but 
perhaps ox-foot is a better name. Order an ox- 
foot from the butcher's ; have it scalded, but not 
boiled, as in the latter case the greater part of the 
goodness is boiled out of it. Put the foot on to 
boil in No. 3 Stock. (See No. 10.) After boiling 
for three or four hours, take it out and cut all the 
flesh ofi" the bone, cutting the meat as much as 
possible like the meat for mock-turtle soup. When 
you first put on the foot, add a tablespoonful of 
mixed sweet herbs, and when you take out the foot 
strain off" the stock. The flesh must then be put 
back into the stock, and simmered or boiled till it is 
j^erfectly tender. This soup, to be nice, requires 
two days to simmer. Thicken the soup with a 
little brown thickening, flavour with pepper and 
salt, and also, if you wish it really good, add a glass 



238 CHOICE DISHES 

of sherry. Be careful to have all the fat re- 
moved, especially after thickening the sonp. This, 
is an exceedingly cheap and nourishing soup. It 
requires patience in boiling, as, till the meat is 
perfectly soft and tender, the soup itself will not 
be glutinous. 

Some carrot and turnip may be boiled, and cut 
up and served in the soup ; also the vegetables, 
boiled with the stock, may be rubbed through a 
wire sieve (see No. 21) into the soup. 

Ox Kidney. (See Kidney.) 

Ox Liver. (See Liver.) 

Ox-tail Soup. — Cut an ox-tail into pieces, about 
an inch long, with a small, fine, meat-saw. Stew 
these pieces of tail in some Stock No 1. (see No 10) 
before the stock is cleared. Cut up a carrot and 
turnip into small square pieces the size of dice. 
When the pieces of tail are nearly tender, add 
the vegetables, simmer till the tail and vegetables 
are quite tender, strain off the pieces of tail and 
vegetables. Clear the stock (see No 18), add a 
dessertspoonful of extract of meat to every three 
pints of soup, put in the tail and vegetables, and 
serve. If the tail is very large, the pieces near the 
root must be cut into two, or even four. A small 
tail will make three pints of soup, and a large tail 
three quarts. Be careful to remove all the grease 
before clearing the soup. 

Ox-tail Soup, thick.^Cut up the tail as before, 
stew it in Stock No 3 (see No 10), add the vege- 
tables, cut up as for clear ox-tail. Boil a table- 
spoonful of sweet mixed herbs, in a little stock. 



AT SMALL COST. 239 

in a stewpan, and strain tlie liquor tlirougli a 
strainer into the soup. Thicken with some brown 
thickening (see No 12), till the soup is of the con- 
sistency of thin cream. Add a dessertspoonful of 
extract of meat to every three pints, and a wine- 
glassful of sherry to the same quantity. A small 
tail will make three pints, and a large tail three 
quarts. Skim off all fat and grease very carefully 
after thickening the soup. 

Ox-tail, Stewed. — Stewed ox-tail is really thick 
ox-tail soup, with very little soup, and that little 
richer than ordinary soup. To stew the tail, cut up 
into inch pieces in some good hrown gravy, with a 
carrot and turnip, cut up in small pieces the size of 
dice. Let the gravy get cold when the tail is 
tender. Kemove the fat, warm up the tail in the 
gravy, and serve. 

Ox Tongue. (See Tongue.) 

Oyster Pretties. (See Patties.) 

Oyster Sauce. — Place a dozen oysters in a small 
saucepan, with their liquor, and add sufficient milk 
to cover them. Scald them by bringing the liquor 
to a boil, and instantly strain off the oysters. 
Thicken the milk and liquor Avith some white 
thickening (see No. 12) till it is as thick as cream. 
Dissolve in an ounce of butter. Add a little pepper 
and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce (gi'ocers'), also 
a "suspicion" of nutmeg, and a little drop of 
lemon-juice may l^e added the last thing. A dozen 
good-sized blue-points would make nearly a pint of 
sauce. The oysters should be cut in half, or, if 
large, into three or even four pieces, and added to 



240 CHOICE DISHES 

the sauce after it lias been removed from tlie fire. If 
the oysters boil, they are quite spoilt by being hard. 

Oyster Sauce from Tinned Oysters. — When 
oysters are too dear, or out of season, a very nice 
sauce can be made with tinned oysters as follows : — ■ 
Open a tin and turn the contents, oysters and all, 
into a saucepan, with a little milk, and let it boil 
up ; then turn it out on to a wire sieve, and rub 
all the oysters, which are hard, as a rule, through 
the sieve. Pour back the sauce into the saucepan, 
thicken it with white thickening (see No. 12), or 
with butter and flour. Dissolve in an ounce of 
batter, add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce 
(grocers'), season with pepper and salt if wanted, 
and add a little lemon-juice the last thing. 

Oysters, Scalloped. — Open a dozen oysters, 
saviiig the liquor, scald them in their liquor, adding 
just enough milk to cover them ; strain them off; 
thicken the liquid with a little wiiite thickening 
(see No. 12), or some butter and flour; add 
a good amount of pepper, and a saltspoonful of 
anchovy sauce, and a "suspicion" of nutmeg. Get 
two good-sized scalloj) shells, or three ordinary- 
sized ones. Add sufficient bread crumbs (see 
No. 20) to the mixture to make it a nice moist 
sort of ])udding. Place equal quantities in each 
shell. Shake some bread crumbs over the top, 
and place some little pieces of butter, cut up 
small, over the cruuibs. Shake a few bright, 
golden-coloured bread raspings over the whole, 
and make hot in the oven. Serve in scallop shells. 

Souie, especially French, cooks thicken with 
butter and flour till the mixture is as thick as 



AT SMALL COST. 241 

double cream. Place this mixture in the shells 
with the oysters as it is. Then shake a few bread 
crumbs and raspings over the top, and warm in the 
oven. This is a richer way. 

Oyster Soup. — Open a dozen oysters, scald them 
in their own liquor and a little milk, strain them 
off directly, and put them by. Boil a quart of 
No. 3 Stock, that has had no extract of meat put to 
it, down to half a pint. Boil separately a pint and 
a half of milk, and add to it the reduced stock. 
(See No. 26.) Thicken with some white thickening 
(see No. 12) till the soup is as thick as cream. Add 
some pepper and a teaspoonful, or rather more, of 
ancho\^ sauce. Make the soup tureen hot with 
boiling water, empty it, put in the scalded oysters, 
now cold, and pour the boiling soup on to them in 
the tureen. It is an improvement to boil a bay- 
leaf in the soup. A " suspicion" of nutmeg may 
also be added. 

A small tin of oysters, rubbed through a wire 
sieve with the liquor, makes this soup much better. 

Oysters. — Native oysters at 3s. 6d. a dozen are 
out of the reach of all save the very wealthy or 
extravagant. American blue-points are sometimes 
to be bought at 6d., and even 4d., a dozen, and for 
cooking purposes are quite equal to natives, if not 
superior. 

In opening oysters for cooking, remember the 
great importance of catching the liquor in the f 
shells. When oysters are eaten plain, thin brown 
bread and butter should be served with them, and 
a lemon cut into quarters ; also serve with them 
plain vinegar, chili vinegar, and black pepper and 



242 CHOICE DISHES 

cayenne. Serve the oysters up in their deep shells, 
and keep in as much of the liquor as possible. 
Oysters really should be eaten without any vinegar 
or pepi^er at all. 

Oysters, Fried. — Scald the oysters in their own 
liquor as follows : — Place, say, a dozen blue-points 
in a saucepan, with their liquor, and add enough 
water to cover them. Bring the water to a boil, 
and the instant it boils take it off the fire, or 
otherwise the oysters will get hard. Dry the 
oysters, flour them, dip them into batter (see 
Batter), and fry them in some very hot fat. (See 
No. 0.) Serve on a napkin folded on a dish, with 
a little fried parsley. They can also be egg-and- 
bread-crumbed and fried. (See No. 20 and No. 6.) 

Oysters, Roast. — Place, say, a dozen oysters 
deep shell downwards on a gridiron. As soon as 
the oysters begin to open they are done. Serve in 
their shells, with thin brown bread and butter and 
lemon. 

Oysters, Stewed. — Scald a dozen oysters in 
their liquor, with a little milk, only sufficient to 
cover them. Strain them off, and thicken this 
liquor with a little white thickening (see No. 12) ; 
add a saltspoonful of anchovy sauce, a very little 
nutmeg, and let the oysters stew (see No. 2) in 
this, taking great care that they do not nearly boil. 
Half an hour will be sufficient to stew. 

If this dish is recommended for an invalid, a 
quarter of a pint of cream, boiled separately, should 
be served with it. 

Toasted bread should be served with stewed 
oysters. 



AT SMALL COST. 243 

Oysters, Tinned. — Tinned oysters are very valu- 
able to assist sauces, soups, (fcc, but as a rule the 
oysters themselves cannot be eaten, unless rubbed 
through a wire sieve. They are, however, some- 
times used to mix with fresh oysters, and they 
will make sonp, scallops, sauces, &c., of an inferior 
quality, served whole. 

Palestine Soup. — Take a dozen good-sized Jeru- 
salem artichokes ; peel them, and, like potatoes, 
throw them into cold water as you peel them, to 
prevent their turning a bad colour. Boil these 
artichokes in a Cjuart of No. 3 Stock (see No. 10) 
that has not had any extract of meat put to it. 
Boil away the stock till it becomes a pulp with the 
artichokes, taking care they do not burn. Then 
rub them through a wire sieve. (See No. 21.) 
Boil separately a pint and half of milk, boiling a 
couple of bay-leaves in it. Add the pulp to the 
boiling milk. Add also one lump of white sugar. 
Flavour with a little white pepper and salt. If 
the soup is not sufficiently thick — it should be like 
double cream — add a little wliite thickening. (See 
No. 12.) But one dozen artichokes of a good size 
will be sufficient, as a rule, for a quart. If the 
artichokes are small, more must l3e added. A 
moderate-sized Jerusalem artichoke is as big as 
the fist. If the soup is Avanted rich, a couple of 
yolks of eggs can be beaten up with half a pint 
of hot soup, and put into the tureen, the re- 
mainder of the soup, very hot, but not boiling, 
poured on it. A " suspicion " of nutmeg may be 
added. Serve fried bread with it. (See No. 7.) 

A piece of raw ham boiled in the stock is a 



244- CHOICE DISHES 

very great improvement to this, and, in fact, to all 
white soups. It is not, however, absolutely essential. 

Pancakes. — The batter for pancakes is best when 
made an hour or two before it is wanted for use. 
It should be quite smooth, and of the consistency 
of very thick custard. The eggs should first be 
whisked thoroughly, the yolks and whites sepa- 
rately ; the flour should then be added, and, when 
it has been beaten until it is quite free from lumps, 
the milk or cream should be put in. In making 
plain pancakes, two tablespoonfuls of flour and a 
quarter of a pint of milk should be allowed to 
each egg. If a larger proportion of eggs be used, 
less flour will be required. The fire over which 
j)ancakes are fried should be clear and bright, and 
the frying-pan scrupulously clean and hot. In 
order to ensure this, it is best to melt a little fat in 
it, then pour it away, wipe the inside quickly 
round with a dry, clean rag, put in a little more 
fat, and afterwards pour in the batter, which should 
cover the pan entirely, and be as thin as possible. 
The edges of the pancake should be kept free from 
the pan with a knife, and the pan must be shaken 
lightly, to prevent sticking. When the batter is 
set, and the under side of the pancake nicely 
browned, the pan should be taken hold of at the 
end of the handle, and lightly jerked upwards, so 
as to turn the pancake completely over, and in a 
minute or two it will be ready for serving. If any 
difliculty is found in throwing up the pancake, it 
may be turned with a slice, or cut in two, and 
then turned. Pancakes may be dished in various 
ways, either flat, with sugar sifted between, or 



AT SMALL COST. 245 

rolled and piled on a hot napkin — this being the 
best, as it keeps in the heat. Lemon and sugar 
are generally sent to table with them, and they 
should be served as hot as possible. They may be 
flavoured according to taste. A few chopped 
apples, or a teaspoonful of dried currants, is some- 
times mixed with the batter, or sprinkled upon it 
when it is set in the pan, and another thin coating 
of batter poured over; and pancakes thus made 
are called apple or currant pancakes. Pancakes 
are much more easily fi'ied in a small pan than in 
a large one. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable 
cost of batter, 8d. per pint. Sufficient for three or 
four persons. 

Parmesan Cheese. — Parmesan cheese is the best 
cheese for adding to dishes known as " au gratin." 
It is now sold ready grated in bottles. 

Parsley and Butter Sauce. — Get some fresh 
2^arsley ; wash it, and let it dry ; chop it very 
fine. Add a tablespoonful of this chopped parsley 
to half a pint of butter sauce (see Butter Sauce) 
or white sauce (see White Sauce). Throw the 
parsley into the sauce when boiling. This preserves 
the green colour. Let it boil for five or ten minutes 
before serving. 

Parsley, Fried. (See No. 6.) 

Parsnips, Boiled. — Wash the parsnips, scrape 
them, cut them into quarters, and throw them into 
boiling water, salted. (See No. 9.) Send them to 
table as soon as they are done. Try them with a 
fork to see if they are done, and skim the water. 
Time varies with age. 



246 CHOICE DISHES 

Partridge, Salmi of. — Cut up the remains of 
some cold partridges into joints. Put the back, or 
backs, which contain but little meat, to boil for 
some time in some gravy, breaking them up first as 
much as possible. Strain off the bones, and rub 
the gravy through a wire sieve (see No. 21), 
rubbing all the pieces of meat and inside of the 
bird through with it. Warm up the remains of 
the bird in this gravy, but do not let it boil. Add 
a dessertspoonful of sherry to every half pint of 
gravy. Serve a little fried bread, and to each half 
pmt of gravy six stoned olives, the last of all. A 
very little grated nutmeg may be added to the 
gravy. Avoid too much brown thickening when- 
ever you have gravy for game. 

Partridges^ Roast. — Let the partridges hang as 
long as possible, or the flesh will be hard and 
flavourless. In cool weather, they should be kept 
fully a fortnight before they are put down to the 
fire. They may be trussed either with or without 
the head, though the latter mode is at present 
more generally preferred. Pluck, singe, and draw 
the birds, and wipe them carefully inside and out ; 
cut off the heads, and leave enough skin on the 
neck to skewer them securely. Draw the legs 
close to the breast, pass the trussing-needle and 
string through the pinions and the middle joints 
of the thighs, and tie and skewer the legs. If the 
heads are left on, they should be brought round, 
and turned under the wing, with the bill laid on 
the breast. To give the birds a plump appear- 
ance, pass the needle through the back, below the 
thighs, then again through the body and legs, and 



AT SMALL COST. 247 

tie the strings firmly. Put the birds down before 
a clear fire, baste liberally with butter or dripping. 
The birds may be dished upon a slice of buttered 
toast, which has been soaked in the gravy in the 
pan under the birds, or they may be put on a hot 
dish, and garnished with water-cresses. Brown 
gravy and bread sauce should be sent to table 
with them ; two or three thin slices of fat bacon, 
tied round the birds before they are put down to the 
fire, is thought by some to improve their flavour. 
The usual fault with partridges is that they are too 
often overcooked. Young l)irds roasted in a brisk 
oven do not want more than twenty minutes, and 
twenty-five minutes to roast before a good fire. 
Cook should be ordered not to commence to cook 
partridges until she sees the dirty soup-plates : 
sujDposing the dinner to consist of soup, joint, and 
partridge. They should be served directly they 
are cooked. 

Partridges, Roast, To Carve. — The jmrtridge is 
cut up in the same way as a fowl. (See Fowl, 




PARTRIDGE. 



Boast, To Carve.) The prime parts of a par- 
tridge ai^e the wings, breast, and merrythought. 



248 CHOICE DISHES 

When the bird is small, the two latter are not 
often divided. The wing is considered the best, 
and the tip of it considered the most delicate 
morsel of the whole. "Partridges," says Dr 
Kitchener, " are cleaned and trussed in the same 
manner as a pheasant, but the ridiculous custom 
of tucking the legs into each other makes them 
very troublesome to carve. In connection with 
the subject of carving, it cannot be too often 
repeated, that more information will be gained by 
observing those who carve well, and by a little 
practice, than l)y any written directions whatever." 

Paste for Common Pies, — Very excellent pastry 
may be made with lard or dripping, instead of 
butter, or with a mixture of lard and dripping. 
Good beef-fat, or suet melted gently down, and 
poured off before it has had time to burn, is very 
nearly as good as anything that can be used for 
making pastry for everyday use. Very palatable 
pies may be made from the dripping from roast 
beef, veal, pork — if not impregnated with the 
flavour of sage-and-onion — or mutton, though the 
last-named is thought by some to impart a dis- 
agreeable flavour of tallow to pastry. The 
quantity of fat used, of course, will vary according 
to the richness required, but half a pound of fat to 
one pound of flour will make a very fail' paste 
suitable for everyday purposes ; and it may be 
remembered that a rich crust is neither so di- 
gestible nor so suitable for many dishes as a sub- 
stantial light one, and that the lightness of pastry 
depends quite as much upon a light, quick, cool 
hand as on a large amount of butter or lard. The 



-AT SMALL COST. 249 

addition of a beaten egg or a little lemon-juice to 
the water, or a teaspoonful of baking-powder to 
the flour, will make the paste lighter. It should 
be remembered, however, that though baking- 
powder is excellent for common pastry that is to 
be used immediately, pies are more likely to get 
dry quickly when it is used. 

Take a pound of flour, and see that it is dry and 
free from lumps ; for this purpose it is best sifted. 

Next, if butter is used, squeeze it in a cloth to 
get rid of any moisture. Mix the paste in as cool 
a place as possible. For ordinary pies, whether 
fruit or meat, use half a pound of butter — or butter 
and lard mixed — or dripping — to one pound of 
flour. Of course, the more butter, the richer the 
paste. 

Avoid mixing paste in a hot kitchen. A marble 
slab makes an admirable paste-board. Mix the 
half pound of butter, or whatever else is used, 
into the flour gently and thoroughly, adding a 
pinch of salt to the flour. If baking-powder is 
used, add that to the flour previously. 

Then moisten with water, or water and lemon- 
juice, half a lemon being sufl&cient for one pound 
of flour. Eoll the whole out three or four times, 
first flouring the paste-board and roller. 

Roll out to the thickness wanted. This is 
generally a quarter of an inch thick for meat pies, 
rather less for fruit pies. 

A tablespoonful of powdered sugar added to the 
flour makes the paste into a nice short crust for 
fruit jDies. 

Paste for meat pies can be glazed. (See Glaze.) 
For making ordinary paste butter is best ; next, 



250 CHOICE DISHES 

butter and lard, mixed ; next, lard ; last, drijDping. 
Six ounces of dripping is sufficient for one pound 
of flour. 

Paste^ Puff. — Equal quantities of butter and 
'flour, the yolk of one egg, and a pinch of salt to 
every pound of flour; a little water. See first 
that the flour is dry and sifted. See that the 
butter is well squeezed in a cloth, so as much as 
possible to extract all moisture from it. The 
butter must be firm, but not frozen. The slab on 
which the pastry is rolled must be clean and cool. 
A marble slab is best. If in winter, no ice is 
necessary ; if in summer, and the day is hot, 
perfect success cannot be guaranteed without a 
little rough ice. 

Put the flour in a heap on the slab, and make a 
" well " in the centre, in which place the yolk of 
egg, the pinch of salt, about two ounces of the 
butter, and a little water. Gradually mix in the 
flour with the rest of the ingredients, using the 
fingers of the right hand, and taking care 
gradually to rub the butter into the flour. A 
little more water must be added from time to time 
till all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, after 
which, the paste should be sprinkled with a little 
more water, and worked back\yards and forwards 
on the slab for a few minutes. The paste at this 
period should be soft, smooth, and elastic. 

Next take the remainder of the butter, and, 
after squeezing it, press it flat, place it on the 
l^aste rolled out. The sides of the paste should 
then be turned up over the butter, so as to com- 
pletely cover it. 



AT SMALL COST. 251 

Kext shake a little flour on the paste-board and 
on the paste. Shape the paste square and let it 
cool for about ten minutes, using ice if in summer, 
as afterwards directed. Tliis square should 
measure rather less than a foot each way, say, ten 
inches. 

Next, place the now cool square on the slab, 
shake a little flour on the slab, and on the paste as 
before, and roll the paste out longways, i. e., don't let 
it get any wider, but keep the sides in, and make 
it longer — say, two feet long by ten inches wide — • 
and be very particular to keep the edges square ; 
the paste, in fact, must be so rolled that its shape 
is that of a large, long book, not of a long, oval 
tin. 

Next, fold the paste into three, turn it half round, 
and roll it out again — still, of course, keeping the 
edges square. If the weather be hot, it may now 
be put back into the ice for ten minutes. 

Once more roll it out, fold it into three, turn it 
half round so as to roll it the other way. The 
paste may be put back into the ice or left to cool, 
if in winter, three times altogether ; and can be 
be rolled out, folded, and half-turned twice or 
three times between each. 

In rolling out the paste, remember, you roll from 
you. You, so to speak, roll the paste and make it 
three times taller, without letting it get any wider, 
being careful to keep the edges square, and not let 
them get round. 

In folding the paste into three, you will generally 
be able to guess pretty well how to make the three 
flaps the same size. 

In turning it half round, suppose you have folded 



Z02 CHOICE DISHES 

it into three, and shut up the paste like a book with 
it« hack towards you. 

In rolHng it out next time you turn " the book," 
as if you were going to open it ready for reading. 

Of course these directions are only necessary to 
absolute novices. 

The paste is now^ ready for use. In making tart- 
lets or cases for cheesecakes, remember, really good 
puff-paste a quarter of inch thick will rise to the 
heiglit of two inches. When this is the case, you 
may consider your success perfect. 

In cooling puff-paste in summer, a very little 
rough ice is sufficient. Have three good-sized tins 
ready, perfectly clean, about a foot square. Place 
some pounded ice in the bottom tin, and place a tin 
on it. Place the folded paste on this tin, and place 
the third tin — also containing some pounded ice — • 
on the top of the paste, A very little ice is neces- 
sary, and the top tin should not be too heavy with 
ice. The middle tin should be lightly floured. 

Thin tins are best ; dishes would not " convey 
heat " sufficiently quickly to cool paste nicely. In 
" cooling " the paste, the heat is conveyed from the 
paste, or it w^ould not cool. 

Paste, Suet, for Puddings. — Suet paste for 
puddings is made l)y mixing chopped suet Avith 
ilour, and making the whole into a smooth paste 
with water. The richness of the paste or crust 
depends upon the quality and quantity of the suet : 
the rule being, the more suet the richer the crust. 
The best kind of suet is the hard beef suet, known 
as kidney suet. For making a good suet crust the 
suet must be chopped very fine, (see No 1 6) and you 



AT SMALL COST. 253 

must avoid lumps. Good ordinary crust, fairly rich, 
can be made by mixing one pound of flour to half a 
pound of suet. When the flour and chopped suet, 
in the above quantities, have been thoroughly mixed, 
the suet being rubbed into the flour Avith the addi- 
tion of half a saltspoonful of salt, mix with it suffi- 
cient water to make it into a smooth paste. Flour 
a paste-board, and roll it out to the required 
thickness. For making meat puddings, about 
a quarter of an inch thick ; for fruit puddings, 
rather less. 

For a first-class rich pudding, such as snipe, 
lark, &c., use three quarters of a pound of the best 
beef suet to one pound of flour. 

For an ordinary good pudding, meat or fruit, for 
everyday purposes, half a pound of suet to one 
pound of flour. 

For a cheap plain pudding for children, a quarter 
of a pound of suet to one pound of flour. 

Veal suet and mutton suet will make suet 
puddings. The hard suet from the inside of the 
loin of mutton will make a very good pudding, but 
is not equal to beef suet. 

Patties. — Patties are small cases, made of 
puflf-paste, filled with various kinds of force- 
meat, which forcemeat gives its name to the 
patty. 

Cooks generally seem to exhibit considerable 
difficulty in making patties, which are often 
ordered from the " pastrycook's." These patties con- 
sist of the maximum amount of paste witli the 
minimum amount of inside ; the so-called force- 
meat being sometimes a wafer of some sticky 



254 CHOICE DISHES 

substance, in which the only flavour to be detectecl 
is that of anchovy sauce. 

Owing to the inferiority of "home ovens," it is 
often a good plan to order the patty cases, which 
cost l|d. or 2d. each, from the pastrycook's, and to 
make the inside at home. When this is done, 
fortunate are those who live within a reasonable 
distance of a French pastrycook's, like those to be 
found in the neighbourhood of Soho Square. I 
will, however, give a few directions for making 
patty cases. (See Patty Cases.) 

Patties, Chicken; Turkey, or Savoury. — Make 
some rich mince of fowl or turkey (see Fowl, 
Minced), using cream, and, if possible, chopped 
mushrooms, truffles, and ham, as directed in Mince. 
INIake this hot. Fill some patty cases (see Patty 
Cases), and make hot, and serve. Patties look best 
when served in a silver dish, with plenty of dark- 
green fried parsley (see Parsley, Fried) round the 
base. Four small crayfish can be placed one in 
each corner of the dish. Any kind of rich force- 
meat, such as liver forcemeat (see Liver Force- 
meat), mixed with game or duck, will make nice 
savoury patties. 

Patties, Lobster. — Remove all the white meat 
from the tail and claws, break up the bones, and 
stew them, especially the inside part by the head, 
in a little boiled milk, or, still better. Bechamel 
sauce. (See Bechamel.) Dissolve in this sauce 
2 oz. of butter to every half-pint of sauce. Strain 
off this sauce, and add sufficient lobster butter 
(see Lobster Butter) to make it a bright red 
colour. Thicken it with white roux (see No. 12), 



AT SMALL COST. 255 

till it is rather thicker than douLle cream. Season 
with a little cayenne pepper, a few drops of lemon- 
juice, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Mix in 
the meat of the lobster, cut up into small pieces. 
Make the mixture hot, and fill the patty cases 
with the hot mixture, and make the patties hot in 
the oven. 

Serve in a silver dish, ornament the base with 
dark-green fried parsley and small red crayfish. 

Patties, Oyster. — Take a dozen oysters (blue- 
points make capital patties), open them carefully so 
as to catch their liquor, scald them in their own 
liquor (see Oysters), lieing careful that the oysters 
do not remain in the liquid a moment after it boils. 
Take out the oysters, and cut them in two, three, 
or four pieces, according to their size. Add a little 
milk, or still better cream, boiled separately, to the 
oyster liquor. Strain it. Thicken it with some 
white roux (see Xo. 12), add some white pepper, 
and a good brimming teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. 
The sauce must be thickened till its consistency is 
rather thicker than double cream. Make this 
thoroughly hot, then beat up in it the yolk of an 
egg, and add the pieces of cut-up oysters, a few 
drops of lemon-juice, and just a "suspicion" of 
nutmeg. Fill the empty patty cases with this hot 
forcemeat. Make hot in the oven, and serve before 
the patties get so hot that the inside begins to 
" frizzle," as this would curdle the yolk of egg, and 
make the pieces of oysters as tough as leather. 

Serve the patties in a silver dish, with plenty of 
dark-green fried parsley, and place a small crayfish 
in each corner of the dish. 



256 CHOICE DISHES 

Patties, Oyster, from Tinned Oysters. — When 
fresh oysters cannot be obtained, very good oyster 
patties can be made cheaply as follows : — Take a 
tin of oysters, and another of mushrooms. Strain 
off the liquor, and place the mushrooms on a plate 
after cutting them into small pieces. Place the 
oysters in the two liquors, and let the liquor boil 
away till it is reduced to one-third of its original 
quantity. Then add some cream, boiled separately, 
or milk, and rub the oysters through a wire sieve. 
Thicken Avith white roux (see No. 12), add a 
brimming teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, or even 
rather more. Season with white pepper and a little 
lemon-juice. Oyster patties require a good deal of 
pepper. Add the pieces of mushroom, make the 
whole hot, and fill the cases as before. (Sec pre- 
ceding receipt.) 

The insides of these oyster patties should be 
made rather thicker than when fresh oysters are 
used. A yolk of egg can also be added, as in fresh 
oyster patties. 

Patty Cases. — Take some puff-paste (see Paste, 
Puff), and roll it out to the thickness of half an 
inch, or rather less. Get two circular tin cutters, 
one three inches in diameter and the other two 
inches. Cut with the largest cutter some circular 
pieces of paste. It is best to dijD the cutter into 
water first. Be sure and cut sharply and smoothly. 
The round pieces of paste must have sharp edges, 
like a large, flat jDill-box, and not round ones, like a 
cheese. Next take the smaller cutter, and make a 
slight incision, not quite an eighth of an inch deep, 
in the top of each piece of puff-paste, making a 



AT SMALL COST* 257 

small cut in each piece, surrounded by a rim half 
an inch wide. This is simply a round cut ; no 
paste is removed. Place the pieces of paste in a 
brisk oven, and bake. (See No. 4.) The paste, 
if good, will rise to the height of three inches. 
Each piece will have a lid on the top two 
inches in diameter. This must be lifted gently 
oflf when nearly cold. The white paste inside 
the patty must be carefully scooped out, and the 
lid can be replaced when the patty case has been 
filled. 

This shape w411 be found far preferable to the 
old-fashioned one of the rings of pastry of different 
sizes, surmounted by a round uneatable knob. 

In filling the cases, always remember to make 
the forcemeat thoroughly hot^r^^, and to put this 
hot forcemeat into the cold case ; then the patties 
can be made hot in the oven quickly. "Were the 
patties filled with cold forcemeat first, and then 
made hot, the result would be that the pastry 
would be dried up and spoilt before the insides got 
hot through. 

Sometimes, when patties are ordered from the 
pastrycook's, the cook warms them up just as they 
are. In this case, you will often find the pastry 
hot, while the " wafer of anchovy something " is 
quite cold. 

Should any filled patties be left, and you should 
want to warm them up for the next day, lift off 
the tops, and scoop out the inside. Make this in- 
side hot — say, in a saucer in the oven — put the 
cases, moist, inside the oven for two or three 
minutes, then fill up with the hot forcemeat, and 
place on the puff-paste lids. 

R 



258 ' CHOICE DISHES 

Peach Tritters. (See Apricot Fritters.) 

Peaches, Tinned. — Tinned peaches can be treated 
in every respect as Apricots. (See Apricots.) 

Pears, Baked. — Place the pears whole in a 
buttered tin in the oven. Shake some powdered 
suorar over them when done. Bakinsf or cookinof 
pears require a very long time — some four or five 
hours to bake. 

Pears, Stewed. — Peel some cooking pears ; cut 
them into quarters, removing carefully all the core. 
Place them in a stewpan, with sufficient water to 
cover them. To every pound of cut-up fruit add a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, a small stick of cin- 
namon as big as the little finger, and a dozen 
cloves. Stew till perfectly tender, take out the 
pears, bring the syrup to a boil, strain it, make it 
a bright red Avith a little cochineal. When cold, 
take a tablespoonful of port wine, and add it to 
the syrup. 

Pea Soup. — Take a pint of split peas ; soak 
them over-night. Then boil them in three pints of 
Stock No. 3 or Stock No. 4 (see No. 10), leaving in 
whatever vegetables were used for the stock. A 
greasy stock is best for pea soup. When the peas 
are tender, rub them, with the vegetables, through 
a wire sieve. (See No. 21.) Serve fried bread 
(see No. 7) and p.owdered dried mint with the 
soup. 

N.B. — If you have a piece of boiled j^ickled 
pork and peas pudding one day, you can make 
some pea soup out of the liquor and remains of 
the peas pudding. The remains of cold potatoes 



AT SMALL COST. 259 

can be used up by being rubbed through the sieve 
with the peas. 

Pea Soup, Green. — Green pea soup can be made 
from dried green peas exactly the same way, only a 
good handful of spinach should be boiled with the 
soup and rubbed through the sieve (see 'No. 21), to 
assist in making the soup a good colour. 

Pea Soup, Green, Fresh, — Take half a peck of 
fairly young peas, shell them, and throw the peas 
into water, Put all the shells into a quart of 
No. 3 Stock to boil, with a handful of spinach, tin ee 
or four sprigs of parsley, a dozen mint-leaves, and, 
if possible, a few small, gTeen, fresh onions. Boil 
for an hour, and then rub the whole through a 
wire sieve. (See No. 21.) The shells are very 
troublesome, but with patience a great deal can be 
got through. Pour back the soup and pulp into 
the saucepan, let it boil, throw in the peas, and 
boil till tender. Thicken the soup with a little 
white thickening, if not sufficiently thick already. 
Season with pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of 
extract of meat can be added if the soup is wished 
good. Serve the peas whole in the soup. Some 
boil the peas with the shells, and send all through 
the sieve. 

Peas, Green, Fresh. — Have the peas as fresh 
picked as possible. Throw them into boiling 
water, slightly salted, and boil three or four fresh 
leaves of mint with them. (See No. 9.) Serve 
directly they are done, and very hot. Time for 
young peas, about twenty minutes. 

Peas, Green, Tinned.— Open the tin, and warm 



2G0 CHOICE DISHES 

the contents up in a small stewpan, with four or 
five fresh mint-leaves. Add half a saltspoonful of 
salt and half a saltspoonful of powdered sugar. 
Serve the peas as soon as they are hot ; they are 
already cooked. Of course the liquor must be 
strained off! 

Peas Pudding. — Take a quart of split peas. 
Soak them over-night in some cold water. Those 
that float are bad, and should be thrown away. 
Tie the peas up in a cloth, leaving room for thera 
to swell. Boil till tender — about t\vo hours or 
more. Take them out; rub them through a 
colander ; or, better still, a wire sieve (see No. 21); 
mix in a couple of ounces of butter or dripping, 
and add some pepper and salt. Stir it well up. 
Flour the cloth, and tie it up again, and boil it for 
half an hour or an hour longer ; then turn it out, 
shape it as liked, and serve it with boiled pork, 
boiled bacon, boiled beef, itc. To make the peas 
pudding richer, one or two eggs can be added to 
it after it has been sent through the colander or 
sieve. The remains of cold potatoes can also be 
mashed up with it. 

Perch. — Perch is a very common fresh-water 
fish. It is very nice boiled as follows : — Take 
two or three perch, clean them and fillet them — 
that is, cut them into four pieces, raw, and remove 
the bones. Put the bones on to stew, with a few 
roots of parsley, and the outside trimmings ' of 
celery and carrot. Make a fish stock thus, then 
strain it off, and boil the fillets of perch in it, 
and serve in the liquor. Brown bread and butter 
should be served with " water Sou diet of perch." 



AT SMALL COST. 261 

Perch can be grilled, or fried, or baked. In any 
case, a little French wine is a gi'eat improvement 
to the sauce. Perch can be baked, and basted 
with a little butter and a spoonful of wine, then 
some bread raspings shaken over them, the butter, 
wine, and juice, &c., thickened, and poured round, 
as a gravy. (See Fish, Fresh Water.) 

Persons svho live in the country, where perch are 
plentiful, would do well to have in store a bottle 
of " Graves,^^ or any kind of white or red Bordeaux 
wine. A Is. 6d. bottle would last a long time, as 
a tablespoonful is sufficient to flavour the sauce for 
three or four fish. As perch generally cost nothing 
beyond the pleasure of catching them, this w^ould 
not be any great expense. A tablesjDoonful of 
wine may be added to the stock for the " Souchet." 

Pheasant, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Pheasant, Roast. — A pheasant should be kept 
and hung for seme time before roasting ; a fresh 
pheasant is flavourless. On the other hand, it 
should not be high, but just getting so. Pluck, 
draw, and truss the bird, and roast (see No. 3) be- 
fore a clear fire^ basting with a little butter. Time 
to roast, about forty -li^'e minutes ; to roast in an 
oven, rather less, for an ordinary-sized bird. Keep 
some of the long feathers to stick in the tail after 
placing it on a dish. Serve bread sauce (see 
Bread Sauce) and good brown gravy with it. 

Pheasant, Roast, To Carve. — Fix the fork in 
the centre of the breast, and cut slices off evenly 
on either side. Should there be more persons to 
partake of tKe roast x^heasant than these slices will 



262 CHOICE DISHES 

satisfy, disengage the legs and wings in the same 
manner as is done when carving boiled fowl. In 
taking off the wings, be careful not to cut too 
near the neck ; if you do, you will hit upon the 




ROAST PHEASA>-T. 



neckbone, from which the wing must be separated. 
Cut off the merrythought by passing the knife 
under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts 
as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought 
of a pheasant are the most highly prized ; but the 
leg has a superior flavour. 

Pheasant, Salmi of. — Proceed in every respect 
as making a salmi of partridge. (See Partridge, 
Salmi of.) 

Pheasant, Trussed. — The pheasant may be 
trussed either with or without the head. If with- 
out, care must be taken to leave sufficient skin on 
the neck to skewer back ; if the head, however, is 
left on, it must be brought round under the wing, 
and fixed on the jDoint of a skewer, with the bill 
laid straight along the breast. In this case, the 
crop must be removed through a slit made for the 
purpose in the back of the neck. Draw the bird. 



AT SMALL COST. 263 

bring the thigh close under the wing, pass a skewer 
through the pinion, the body, and the leg, and 
skewer and tie the legs firmly down. 

Pickle Sauce, Hot. — Take a teaspoonful of ordi- 
nary hot pickle, generally known as piccalilli. Cut 
up the pickle small, and mix it with a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of rather thick brown gravy (some 
of the yellow sauce of the piccalilli should be added 
as well), make hot, and serve with grilled salmon, 
mutton cutlets, and pork chops, (fee. 

If the gravy is not thick, add a little brown 
thickening. If liked very hot, a little cayenne can 
be added, or one or two chilies may be cut up and 
mixed with the sauce. 

Pie, Fruit. — All fruit pies are made on the 
same principle. The fruit is placed in the pie-dish 
with, as a rule, about three tablespoonfuls of 
brown sugar to every quart of fruit. A little 
water, about a wineglassful, should be placed at 
the bottom of tlie dish. A cup is placed upside 
down in the centre of the pie-dish, to keep up the 
crust. Some fruit can be placed under the cup. 

The more fruit that can be got into the pie at 
starting the better, as when the fruit stews it 
shrinks considerably. 

Then cover the pie w^ith either common paste, or 
puff paste (see Paste), following the directions for 
Pie, Meat, Ordinary, in every respect ; and bake 
from half an hour to an hour, according to size of 
the pie. 

Apples should be peeled, cut into quarters, and 
the cores removed ; also some cloves, one to each 
apple, and one or two strips of lemon-peel added. 



264 CHOICE DISHES 

Currants should be strung, and bad or withered 
ones removed. 

Stone fruit, such as plums, greengages, cherries, 
should be put in whole. 

Ripe gooseberries require rather more sugar 
than green ones. 

Milk, cream, or custard can be served with all 
fruit tarts, as Avell as brown sugar. 

Some white powdered sugar should be sprinkled 
over the pie. The pie-crust can be brushed over 
with white of egg beaten up, and the sugar 
sprinkled before baking, but after it is baked is 
sufficient for ordinary purposes. 

Pie, Lark. — Proceed as in making a pigeon pie. 
Allow four larks for every pigeon ; add spices as 
for game pie. 

Pie, Meat, Ordinary, Good. — Cut some ordinary 
beef-steak, fillet-steak, or rump-steak into pieces 
about an inch thick, an inch wide, and three inches 
long. Take a frying-pan, and place in it a small 
piece of fat or butter. Make this veiy Jiot^ and 
quickly brown the outside of these pieces of meat 
without cooking them. In order to do this, you 
must get the frying-pan very hot indeed, and only 
have very little fat or butter in it. Each piece of 
meat should be brown outside in a few seconds, 
while it is blue in the middle. Place these pieces 
of meat in a pie-dish. Have ready a little No. 3 
Stock, and pour into the frying-pan about sufficient 
to make enough gravy to cover the meat in the pie. 
After frying the meat, some dried-up gravy will be 
left in the frying-pan, very much like extract of 
meat, which should not be wasted; therefore stir 



AT SMALL COST. 265 

up the stock in the frying-pan, scraping it with a 
spoon. Pour this gravy over the meat in the j^ie- 
dish. Add, for an ordinary-sized pie-dish, that will 
take a couple of pounds of steak, a piece of onion, 
chopped fine, the size of the top of thumb down 
to the end of the nail, a teaspoonful of salt, and 
another teaspoonful of black pepper (a meat 
pie requires a great deal of pepper), also about a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Cover with an 
ordinary or pufF paste, and bake in the oven for 
about an hour and a half. 

N.B. — In covering with paste (see Paste) act as 
follows : — Roll out a thin strip of paste, an eighth 
of an inch in thickness, and cover the rim of the 
pie-dish from the outside edge to about a quarter of 
an inch down the dish, greasing the dish with a 
little butter where the strip "s\dll go. jNIoisten the 
surface of this rim with a little water. Next, 
cover the pie over with some paste, rolled out 
about a quarter of an inch thick, piling up the 
meat in the centre to support the crust. Press 
the crust round gently on to the other rim, and 
then cut round with a knife outside the edge, keep- 
ing the knife perfectly upright or perpendicular as 
you cut, thus trimming the two pieces of paste 
neatly together. Next, crimp the edge with an 
ordinary fork, using the tips of the fork — about a 
quarter of an inch of them — for the purpose ; but, 
in doing this, do not push away the paste from the 
edge of the dish. Make an opening in the top of 
the paste — i.e., the top of the pie — with a knife, 
so that the steam can escape in baking. The paste 
can be glazed with a yolk of egg. (See Glaze.) 

Every kind of ordinary meat-pie is made on the 



266 CHOICE DISHES 

above principle. The pie can be improved as fol- 
lows : — One or two sheep's kidneys can be added, 
after being cut into quarters, and browned with the 
meat. One or two eggs may be boiled hard, cut 
into slices, and added to the pie. A few oysters, 
with their liquor, are a very great improvement ; 
so are a few mushrooms. 

If you do not brow^n the meat, but put it in 
raw", the pie will have a " boiled meat " look about 
•it. If it has not, it will probably be because you 
had not sufficient gravy, and the meat has been 
baked dry and black in the dish, because it was 
not covered over. 

Water can, of course, be added instead of stock, 
but the gravy will not be so good. 

If you want a meat-pie cold for lunch, or for a 
picnic, dissolve sufficient gelatine in the gravy to 
ensure its being a jelly when cold. (See Jelly.) 
Also fill the pie quite full, after it has cooked, 
through the opening in the top, with gravy just on 
the point of setting. 

Pie, Pigeon or Game. — Proceed exactly as in 
making an ordinary meat pie. Cut the pigeons 
into halves, and allow one pigeon to every j^ound 
of steak. Pack the steak round the pigeon, and 
also allow one hard-boiled egg to each pigeon. A 
few slices of raw ham or bacon, cut thin, are an 
improvement. This should be placed on the top 
next the crust. 

In making a game pie from the remains of 
pheasant, grouse, ptarmigan, partridge, hare, &c., 
mixed with steak, proceed exactly as in making 
ordinary pigeon pie, mixing the game with the steak. 



AT SMALL COST. 267 

In addition, however, to the teaspoonfnl of black 
pepper, add a saltspoonful of spices, obtained as for 
liver forcemeat. (See Liver Forcemeat.) 

Pie, Veal and Ham. — As this pie should look 
white when cut, the veal is not browned. Allow 
about a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon to 
every pound of veal. Lay the veal, cut into 
pieces the same size as steak for an ordinary pie, 
at the bottom of the pie-dish, cover with a layer of 
bacon and ham, cut thin, then a layer of veal and 
another of bacon, and thus fill the dish. Add a 
teaspoonfnl of chopped parsley, mixed with half a 
one of mixed sw^eet herbs. Add a teaspoonfnl of 
salt and another of black pepper, and a piece of 
chopped onion as in an ordinary pie. Let the top 
layer be fat ham or bacon. Cover the meat Avitli 
Stock No. 3 (see No. 10), and cover the pie with 
paste. (See Paste and Pie, Meat, Ordinary.) 
Bake in the oven for an hour and an half. A 
very little nutmeg, and one or two thin slices of 
lemon-peel, not bigger or thicker than the little 
finger nail, can be added to the pie. A few hard- 
boiled eggs and one or two mushrooms are a great 
improvement. Veal and ham pie requires a great 
deal of gravy, and it is always best to have a little 
stock ready to pour in after it is baked, to fill 
it up. Pour in the gravy hot, at starting. 

A little veal stuffing can be added to a veal and 
ham pie, especially if the pie is to be eaten cold, 
when it is a gi^eat improvement. This pie hot is 
somewhat rich. 

Pig, Sucking. — Sucking pigs are in season all 
the year round, though they are to be preferred in 



268 



CHOICE DISHES 



cold weather, and are at their best from the middle 
of November to the end of December. To be eaten 
in perfection they should not be more than three or 




SUCKING PIG. 



four weeks old, and should be cooked as soon as 
possible after they are killed, as they deteriorate in 
quality every hour that they are kept. 

Pig, Sucking, Roast. — Wipe the pig thoroughly, 
stuff it with a very mild sage-and-onion stuffing, 
and sew up the slit securely with soft cotton. 
Truss it like a hare, with the fore-legs skewered 
back and the hind-legs drawn forward. Rub it 
over with clarified butter, or fresh salad oil, and 
put it down, not too near, before a clear lirisk fire. 
Baste constantly, or the crackling will be blistered 
and burjit, instead of crisp and brown. As the 
middle part requires less roasting than the ends, 
it is usual, when the pig is half done, to hang a 
flat iron from the spit in such a position that it 
will shade the heat of the fire from the middle. It 



AT SMALL COST. 2GD 

is well to tie some butter in a piece of muslin, and 
rub the pig over with this two or three times whilst 
it is roasting. When it is done enough, cut off the 
head before the pig is taken from the tire, take out 
the brains, and chop them up quickly with the 
gravy which has droj^ped from the pig, and add a 
cupful more, together with a little cayenne, lemon- 
juice, and grated nutmeg. To dish it, cut the pig 
open, and lay the sides back to back, lengthwise, 
upon the dish, with one half of the head at each 
end and the ears at the sides. If preferred, the 
brains may be stirred into melted butter instead 
of gravy. Rich brown gravy, apple, and the old- 
fashioned currant sauce, are all served with sucking- 
pig. Time to roast, according to size; a three 
weeks' old pig, two hours. Probable cost, 6s. to 
12s. Sufficient, a three weeks' old pig for eight or 
nine persons. 

A sucking-pig is often, when rather large, sent to 
the bakery to be baked in a large oven. 

Pig's Brains. — Pig's brains are generally served 
with the pig's tongue, like calf's brains and tongue. 
AVlien a pig's head is used for soup and the tongue 
cut up and put in the soup, the brains w^ll make 
a few small scollops, by boiling, cutting into small 
pieces and placing them in small escallop shells with 
pepper and salt, chopped parsley, small pieces of 
butter, and a little powdered sage ; covering them 
with bread crumbs and raspings, and baking them 
in the oven. 

Pig's Feet. — Pig's feet are best stewed till quite 
tender. The liquor in which they stewed can 
then be thickened with butter and flour or egg. 



270 CHOICE DISHES 

Chopped parsley slioukl be added, as well as a little 
pepper and salt. 

When stewed down with very little liquor they 
can be taken out, salted, peppered, and the liquor 
in which they were stewed poured over them just 
before it becomes a jelly, so as to mask the feet. 
Shake some bread raspings over them, and serve 
cold with parsley. 

The feet of sucking-pigs can be stewed till quite 
tender and fried in batter (see Batter, and No. 6). 

Pig's-feet Soup. — Proceed exactly as in making 
ox-foot soup. 

Pig's Fry. — A pig's fry should be very fresh, and 
the sweetbreads are the best part, but are not 
always easily obtained. Proceed exactly as in 
lamb's fry (see Lamb's Fry,), or place the pig's fry 
in a pie-dish with a layer of potatoes, peeled and 
cut in slices ; add a dessertspoonful of chopped 
onion, half that quantity of sage, and plenty 
of pepper and a little salt ; fill the dish three parts 
full with water or stock, cover it over with the 
fat skin sold with it, and bake in the oven. When 
the potatoes are tender, the pig's fry will be done. 

Pig's Head^ Boiled. — The head is generally 
pickled. Soak in fresh water over-night. Boil the 
head, and serve peas pudding and boiled cabbage with 
it. The liquor will make pea-soup if not too salt. 

Pig's Head, Baked. — For this, the head should be 
fresh ; remove the brains, bake the head in the oven 
with some sagc-and-onion stuffing, serve with a 
little gra^y. Time to bake, one hour and a half. 
This is a very rich dish. It is far more economical 



AT SMALL COST. 271 

to make the head into soup. Serve plenty of 
boiled potatoes with baked pig's head. 

Pig's Head Soup. (See Mock Turtle.) 

Pig's Kidneys. (See Kidneys.) 

Pig's Liver. (See Liver). 

Pigeon, Grilled. — Split the pigeon open in half, 
cutting it clean throudi the breast and back. 
Grill over a clear fire, occasionally moistening the 
halves with a little butter. Pepper and salt the 
bird while cooking. If w^anted devilled, sprinkle it 
plentifully, while cooking, with a mixture composed 
of equal parts of cayenne, black pepper, and salt. 
Time to grill, from five to ten minutes. 

Pigeon Pie. (See Pie, Pigeon.) 

Pigeons, Roast. — Roast Pigeons require a brisk 
fire or oven. Roast in the ordinary way (see No. 3 
or No. 4), baste as often as possible. Serve with 
a little gravy, or plain w^ith salad and watercresses. 
Time to roast, from fifteen to thirty minutes, ac- 
cording to size. 

Pigeons, Stewed. — Cut each pigeon into four 
pieces and brown them in a frying-pan. Stew the 
pieces gently in a little Stock No. 3 (see No. 10), 
with some small button onions also browned in a 
frying-pan. Thicken the stock with a little brown 
thickening, removing the pieces of pigeon first, and 
warming them up in the gravy afterwards. Season- 
ing, pepper and salt. A mushroom stewed with 
them is a great improvement. Be careful to re- 
move the grease. 

Pigeons^ Trussed.— Pigeons need to be very 



27^ Ohoice dishes 

carefully plucked and cleaned, and they should, if 
possible, be drawn as soon as they are killed. They 
are very good roasted with a slice of bacon over the 
breast, and a vine-leaf under the bacon. To truss 
for roasting : — Cut off the head and neck, cut off the 




PIGEONS TnU33ED. 



toes at the first joint. Truss the wings over the 
back, and pass a skewer through the wings and 
body. The gizzard may be cleaned and put under 
one of the wings. To truss for stewing, if stewed 
whole : — Cut off the legs at the first joint, put the 
legs into the bod}^, and skewer the pinions back. 

Pike, Baked and Stuffed. — Scale and clean the 
fish thoroughly. Fill tlie paunch with some ordi- 
nary veal stuffing (see Yeal Stuffing), and sew up 
the fish. Bake in the oven ; baste with a little 
butter and its liquor as often as possible. When 
done, make this liquor into some sauce for the fish, 
by adding a little gravy, lemon-juice, cayenne 
pepper, half a glass of sherry, and a teaspoonful of 
anchovy sauce. A few bread raspings can be shaken 
over the fish. (See Fish, Fresh Water.) 



AT SMALL COST. 2 i 3 

This is a dangerous fish to give to young children, 
on account of tlie sharpness of the bones. 

Pike, or Jack. — This is a fresh-water fish (see 
Fish, Fresh-water), and should be cooked very 
fresh. It is very nice, when large, plain-boiled. 
For this purpose it should be scaled and cleaned 
soon after it is caught. Pour some boiling water 
on the fish, after which the scales can be easily 
scraped off with a knife. The fish should then 
be cut into slices about an inch thick, and im- 
mediately thrown into fresh water, and kept there 
till they are wanted for cooking. Boil for (see 
No. 1) about twenty minutes ; and serve with 
parsley and butter, or Dutch sauce. 

Pilchards. — These are not very commonly met 
with fresh, but are largely sold in tins. When 
fresh, cook them in every respect similar to 
herrings. When preserved in oil in tins, they can 
be eaten cold, like sardines, in which case a little 
lemon-juice and cayenne pepper should be served 
with them. 

They also make a quick and not expensive curry, 
as follows : — Take a tin of pilchards ; pour all the 
oil into a frying-pan. Add a dessertspoonful of 
curry-powder, and mix about a teaspoonful of corn- 
flour with a tablespoonful of water, and add that, 
and stir up the oil in the frying-pan, when it 
becomes a little thick ; then warm up the pilchards 
in the frying-pan. Turn them on to a dish 
without breaking. Pour the thick curry sauce 
over them. This is a very good breakfast dish, and 
can be prepared in five minutes. A few bay-leaves, 
warmed up in the sauce, are an improvement. 



274 CHOICE DISHES 

Pine-apple Cup. (See Cups.) 
Pine-apple Fritters. (See Fritters.) 
Pine-apple, Tinned. — Tinned pine-apples make 
excellent fritters (see Fritters) j also, they make 
a very delicious sweet, by simply thickening the 
syrup with a little gelatine and making them into 
a jelly, letting the slices set in the jelly. 

A tin, or part of one, can also be turned into 
the centre of a plain border of cold boiled rice, in 
which case ornament the border with a few pre- 
served cherries and slices of green angelica. (See 
Rice Borders and No. 29.) 

Pine-apple Water Ice. (See Ice Water Fruit.) 
Pippins, Normandy. (See Normaxdy.) 
Piquante Sauce. — The almost universal fault 
with sauce piquante is, that it is too acid. Take a 
dessertsj)oonful of chopped shalot, or Spanish 
onion, another of capers, and another of pickled 
gherkins. Place this in a frying-pan or saucepan 
with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and let it simmer 
gently till the vinegar has simmered away all but 
a few drops ; then add a quarter of a pint of good 
gravy. If the gravy is not thick, add some brown 
thickening. (See No. 12.) Add a saltspoonful of 
salt. Skim the sauce, so as to get rid of any 
grease. A pinch of thyme and a powdered bay- 
leaf will be found an improvement. Unless the 
vinegar is allowed to evaporate almost entirely, 
this sauce will be too acid. 

This is a nice appetising sauce with mutton 
cutlets. 

Plaice. — This is a cheap fish, xevy plentiful as 
a rule ; but avoid getting one that is watery and 



AT SMALL COST. 275 

flabby : the firmer they are the better. Plaice 
can be plain-boiled (see No. 1), and served with 
butter sauce (see Butter Sauce), ancho\y sauce 
(see Anchovy), or shrimp sauce (see Shrimp.) 

Perhaps the nicest way to cook plaice is to cut it 
in slices and fry it in batter. (See Batter ; 
also No. 6.) Serve some fried parsley with it. 
The bones should be removed to make fish sauce. 
(See Fish Sauce.) 

Plovers, Roast. — Pluck the plovers, but do not 
draw them. Place each each bird on a slice of 
toast, and cook in a Dutch oven, or in an ordinary 
oven. Baste plentifully with butter, and serve 
each bird on the toast. Should any of the inside 
have run out, spread it over the toast. Time, 
about fifteen minutes. They require a brisk oven 
or fire. They should look red inside, not blue, when 
cut, and a rich brown outside. 

Gravy is not necessary with plovers. They re- 
quire, however, plenty of butter, which will be 
sucked up by the toast. A little cut lemon and 
cayenne can be served with them. 

Plum Jam. (See Jam.) 

Plum Pudding. — There is almost an infinite 
variety of receipts for plum puddings, but a very 
good general idea can be gathered from the follow- 
ing receipt ; and the variations necessary to raise its 
level to a Christmas pudding on the one hand, 
or to bring it down till it is suitable for a boys' 
school on the other, can be pointed out afterwards. 

Take half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound 
of suet, a quarter of a pound of raisins, a quarter of 
a pound o'f currants, one eggj a tablespoonful of 



276 CHOICE DISHES 

sugar, one-third of a nutmeg grated, half an ounce 
of chopped candied-peel, a pinch of salt, a dessert- 
spoonful of treacle, and a little milk or water. A 
teaspoonful of baking powder will help to make the 
pudding lighter. First, stone the raisins, and pick 
the currants free from stalks, (fee. Chop the suet 
and the candied-peel very fine. (See No. 16.) Mix 
all the dry ingredients in a basin. Next, dissolve 
the treacle in a little milk or water. Break the e^or 
into a cup, first beat it up, add it to the dry pudding, 




PUDDIlxj MOULD.' 



and moisten with the treacly milk or water, till 
you can almost pour the mixture. Next, take a 
pudding-clotli, flour it thoroughly, tie the pudding 
up tight, leaving room for it to swell. Boil for three 
hours. (See No. 24.) Turn it out on to a dish, 
and serve with sweet sauce. (See Sweet Sauce.) 

To render this pudding more rich, the quantity 
of the fruit (especially the raisins, which should be 
in excess of the currants) can be increased, also 
two or three eggs can be used instead of one. In 
this case the treacle will not be necessary, as the 
fruit helps to make the pudding dark. 

To render this pudding less rich, omit the egg 



AT SMALL COST. 277 

and decrease the quantity of fruit. Plum puddings 
can be varied in flavour by the addition of chopped 
lemon-peel, chopped apples, spices of various kinds, 
pounded almonds. When required very rich, 
bread crumbs can be substituted for flour, and 
brandy added. Plum puddings can be boiled in a 
mould or basin, but are always best when boiled 
in a cloth, and room allowed for their swelling. 

Plum Pudding, Christinas, Rich. — Take a pound 
of muscatel raisins, half a pound of currants, a 
quarter of a pound of Sultana raisins, half a pound 
of mixed candied-peel, half a nutmeg, grated, three 
quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, three quarters 
of a pound of suet, eight eggs, a quarter of an 
ounce of pounded bitter almonds, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one tablespoonful of moist sugar, a Cjuarter 
of a pint of brandy, and a pinch of salt. 

Stone the raisins, and see that the currants have 
been thoroughly washed and dried. Break the 
eggs one by one, and be very careful that not one 
is stale, or anything approaching to stale ; then 
beat them all thoroughly together till they froth. 
Mix the dry ingredients very thoroughly ; see that 
the bread crumbs are dry, adding the pounded 
almonds esj^ecially little by little, and being very 
careful to see they get thoroughly mixed in. Then 
add the beaten eggs and the brandy. Get a new 
pudding-cloth, scald it several times, butter the 
cloth, then flour it, tie up the pudding tight, but 
leaving room for it to swell, and let it boil for 
eight hours. Put a saucer underneath the pudding 
to prevent its sticking to the saucepan. See the 
water is boiling when you plunge in the pudding. 



278 CHOICE DISHES 

This pudding is generally best boiled the day be- 
fore. Then two hours will be sufficient to warm 
it up. A Christmas pudding can be hung up in 
its cloth to keep ; it will keep good for a year. 

When the pudding is served, some brandy 
should be heated in a spoon till it lights, and this 
should be poured round the pudding, a little more 
brandy being poured in after it burns up. It is 
usual to stick a piece of holly with a few bright 
red berries in the top of the pudding. 

Plum Pudding, Christmas, To warm up. — Never 
warm up a good plum pudding in the oven. This 
spoils it. Place the remains of the pudding in a 
basin, and put this in a saucepan, quite free from 
water ; and steam it till it is hot through. Light 
a little fresh brandy, and it will be as good as on 
the first day. 

Plum Pudding, Fresh Fruit. (See Puddixg, 
Fruit.) 

Plum Tart, Fresh. (See Pie, Fruit.) 

Pork Chops. — Pork chops are best grilled (see 
No. 5), but can be cooked in a frying-pan. The 
best chops are those that have a slice of the 
kidney in the undercut. Pork chops must be 
thoroughly done, and they require nearly double 
the time of mutton chops. 

Pork, Leg of, Boiled. — If the pork is salted, 
wash and soak the leg in fresh water for an hour. 
Place the leg in cold water, with a couple of 
onions, a carrot and a turnip, and some trimmings 
of celery. Boil (see No, 1), allowing about twenty 
minutes to a pound. Serve with peas pudding. 
(See Peas Pudding.) 



AT SMALL COST. 279 

The liquor in which the pork was boiled will, 
if not too salt, with the vegetables make excellent 
pea soup. These vegetables must be ruljbed 
through a wire sieve with the peas. (See Pea 
Soup.) 

Pork, Leg of, Roasted. — A leg of pork of eight 
2:)0unds will require about three hours. Score the 
skin across in narrow strips — some score it in 




LEG OF PORK. 



diamonds — about a quarter of an inch apart. 
Stuff the knuckle with sage-and-onion stuffing (see 
SAGE-and-Oxiox), lifting the skin by the knuckle 
with a knife, placing the stuffing underneath, and 
tying it up with a string. Do not put the meat 
too near the fire ; rub a little sweet oil on the skin 
with a paste-brush or a goose feather ; this makes 
the crackling crisper and browner than basting it 
with dripping, and it will be a better colour than 
all the art of cookery can make it in any other 
way. And this is the best way to prevent the 
skin from blistering, which is principally occasioned 
by its being placed too near the fire. 



280 CHOICE DISHES 

Pork, Loin of (a la Frangaise). — Take a piece of 
the loin, neck, or spare-rib of pork ; score the skin 
neatly in lines about a quarter of an inch apart, 
and rub it over with salad oil. Put it into a deep 
baking-dish with eighteen or twenty apples pared, 
cored, and quartered, as many potatoes peeled and 
divided, and nine or ten moderate-sized onions. 




LOIX OF PORK. 



Put the dish in a well-heated oven, and when the 
meat and vegetables are done enough, serve them 
on a hot dish, the meat being placed in the centre, 
and the apples^ onions, and potatoes, arranged 
round it. Time to bake a joint weighing about four 
pounds^ two hours. Probable cost, 9id. to 10|d. 
per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. 

Pork, Pickled. — Whenever you boil pickled pork 
(see No. 1), add what vegetables you can spare, 
such as onion, trimmings of celery, carrot, turnip, 
and boil with it. This improves the flavour of the 
meat, and the vegetables can afterwards be used in 
making soup. Pickled pork is very nice cold ; a 
little mustard and vinegar are an improvement 
to it. 

Pork Sausages. — Take one pound of lean pork, 



AT SMALL COST. 281 

half a pound of fat, one teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of dried 
marjoram, one-third of a small nutmeg, one-sixth 
of the rind of a lemon, four good-sized sage-leaves. 
Mix all the ingredients thoroughly together, being 
very careful to chop the lemon-peel and sage-leaves 
very fine. 

If a sausage machine is used, the mixture should 
be sent through twice. 

Holl the sausage meat into small balls ; this 
quantity would make sixteen. Fry in a frying-pan, 
and serve each ball on a small square piece of toast, 
dipped in the fat in the frying-pan. Suitable for 
breakfast. 

If sausages are liked highly seasoned, increase 
the quantity of sage and marjoram. 

Pork Sausages, to Cook. — Pork sausages should 
be cooked slowly in a frying-pan. When they are 
bought they are generally in skins : these skins 
should be pricked w^ith a fork in several places. 
Bought sausages are generally mixed with a 
quantity of bread crumbs. This is the cause of 
sausages bursting. 

Porridge, Oatmeal. — Oatmeal porridge is a lead- 
ing article of food w^ith the Scottish peasantry. It 
is generally accompanied w-ith milk, when milk is 
to be had ; when milk is very scarce butter is some- 
times used, sometimes sugar, and sometimes treacle 
or beer. " For most persons in a sound condition of 
health," says a north-country writer, " there is no 
more wholesome article of food than porridge and 
milk, none that contains a larger proportion both of 
flesh -forming and heat-producing substances ; whilst 



282 CHOICE DISHES 

to almost all who have e.ver been accustomed to its 
use, it is extremely palatable. Generally speaking, 
there is no better article of food for the nursery, 
none more likely to maintain a healthy condition 
of the stomach, or to give vigour to the frame ; 
although there are exceptional cases, both amongst 
the young and amongst adults, in which the use of 
porridge is unsuitable, producing painful distension 
of the stomach and indigestion. Whilst the 
caprices of children ought not to be heeded in such 
a matter, the actual condition of their constitutions 
ought to be carefully observed and regarded. Por- 
ridge is in general made by simply boiling oatmeal 
in water, stirring all the time to prevent it sticking 
and burning, and to secure the thorough mixture 
of the meal and water into a homogeneous mass 
without knots. The quality of porridge very much 
depends on the amount of boiling which it receives. 
It cannot be too thoroughly boiled. Imperfectly- 
boiled oatmeal porridge is a very coarse article of 
food ; and unfortunately much of the porridge 
used by the poorer classes in Scotland and else- 
where is of this character, and the porridge pre- 
pared for the nursery is often no better, through 
the carelessness of servants who wish to get 
through their work with as little trouble as 
possible. It is not nearly so digestible, and, 
therefore, not so nutritious, as porridge really 
well made. A common mistake in the making of 
porridge must also here be noticed as tending much 
to the deterioration of its quality — the adding of 
meal by degrees, whilst the boiling goes on, until 
the proper thickness is acquired, the result being 
that part of the meal is imperfectly boiled. The 



AT SMALL COST, 283 

cook ought to know the proper proportions of meal 
and water — knowledge not very difficult to acquire 
— and mix them at once, so that all the meal may 
be equally well boiled. But it is to be observed 
that the water must be boiling before the meal is 
put in, which is not to be introduced in a mass, 
but, as it were, strained through the fingers hand- 
ful by handful as quickly as possible. 

The porridge boiled with water should be served 
in a soup plate. It should be like a thick pudding. 
Cold milk should be served with it in a jug. 

Port Wine Jelly. (See Jelly). 

Potato Pie. — Potato pie is generally made 
from the remains of cold meat and potatoes, baked 
in the oven. (See Mutton Pie.) Sometimes the 
pie is covered with a paste, sometimes the top layer 
is potatoes. Thin slices of onion mixed with the 
potatoes are a gi-eat improvement. The potatoes, 
as much as possible, should be kept moist with fat. 
In '.jreaking up the cold meat bone to make stock 
for gi'avy for the pie (see ISTo. 10) take care of what- 
ever marrow there is, and add it to the potatoes. 
Small pieces of suet or dripping can also be placed 
on the top of the potatoes. 

One nice way of using up the remains of paste 
when there is not enough to cover the pie is to line 
iAie edges of the pie-dish only, and pile up the 
potatoes in the middle. Never let any meat be at 
the top. There should always be enough stock to 
keep the meat moist. 

The potatoes can soak up the grease and get 
browned. Chopped parsley may be added to the 
pie as well as ketchup. Add plenty of black pepper. 



284 CHOICE DISHES 

Potato Salad. — Slice up some cold potatoes — 
new potatoes make the best salad — into slices about 
a quarter of an inch thick. Rub a salad bowl with 
a bead of garlic or a slice of onion. Sprinkle some 
chopped parsley over the cold potatoes, and dress 
them like an ordinary salad, being careful not to 
add any vinegar till they are well mixed in the oil. 
Mix one saltspoonful of salt and one of pepper in a 
tablespoon with some oil, and pour it over the 
potatoes, and toss them lightly together. Add 
another tablespoonful of oil and mix thoroughly ; 
last of all, add one dessertspoonful of vinegar. 

Slice up, small, a few gherkins out of a bottle of 
pickle, and add to the salad. A few fi^esh mint- 
leaves, or fresh tarragon leaves chopped fine, are an 
improvement. Other cold boiled vegetables can 
be added. 

Potato Soup. — Potato soup is best made from 
the remains of cold boiled potatoes. Boil the 
potatoes with one large onion in a quart of No. 3 
stock (See No. 10), till the Stock is reduced to half 
a pint, then rub all through a wire sieve (see No. 21), 
and add to it a pint of milk, boiled separately. 
Boil a couple of bay-leaves in the milk. 

Add to each quart a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, pepper, salt, and just a " suspicion " of nut- 
meg. Sufficient cold potatoes should be added to 
the soup to make it of the consistency of double 
cream. Serve fried bread (see No 7) Avith the soup. 

Potatoes (a la Maitre d'Hotel). — Boil some pota- 
toes (new ones are best), and, when done, cut them 
into slices, and serve them in a little white sauce, 
some chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a little 



AT SMALL COST. 285 

lemon-juice. Proportions : one dozen small new 
kidney potatoes, three taLlespoonfuls of white 
sauce, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the 
juice of a quarter of lemon, about a saltspoonful 
of mixed pepper and salt. (See Maitre d'Hotel.) 

Potatoes^ Baked. — ^\'lien potatoes are baked in 
their jackets, they should be Urst well washed with 
a brush. Time to bake large ones, about two 
- hours. Serve in their skins, with a little butter. 
When potatoes are baked, after being peeled and 
cut up, they require fat. Potatoes are thus often 
baked under a joint of meat. If baked in a tin, 
cut up with some dripping. They require turning 
occasionally. 

Potatoes, Boiled and Steamed. — (See Ko. 9.) 
Ptecollect, old potatoes must Ije put into cold water, 
new potatoes into hot water. The potatoes should 
be as nearly the same size as possible. Large 
potatoes must boil rather longer and more slowly 
than small ; consequently, if the potatoes be ^ery 
large, as soon as the water boils, throw in a little 
cold to take it off the boil again. If potatoes are 
over-boiled, they get papj^y. Consequently, there 
is a fear, in the case of large potatoes, of getting 
the outsides boiled too much before the centre is 
tender. The great art of boiling potatoes is to 
know directly they are done. Novices should try 
them with a fork. Directly they are tender, strain 
off the water, and put a dry cloth under the sauce- 
pan lid, leaving the lid half off. Give the sauce- 
pan a shake occasionally. Let them steam for 
about five minutes after being strained off. 

New potatoes don't require more than drying 



286 CHOICE DISHES 

after boiling, when they should be placed in a 
vegetable-dish, with a little piece of butter, a few 
mint-leaves (which should be boiled with them), 
and a little chopped parsley. Sometimes new pota- 
toes have some white sauce poured over them. 

Potatoes, Fried. — Potatoes, raw and cooked, fry 
very easily if the fat is prope-rly hot. (See No. 6.) 
Cut raw potatoes thin — not much thicker than a 
penny -piece. Potatoes that have been cooked be- 
fore may be cut half an inch thick. As soon as 
the potatoes begin to turn colour, take them out of 
the fat, as they get darker afterwards by them- 
selves. Drain them on a hot cloth or blotting- 
paper to get rid of the grease. 

Potatoes, Mashed. — Mashed potatoes are gene- 
rally made from the remains of boiled potatoes, or 
from potatoes that have boiled badly and got 
broken. Mash the potatoes with a fork, in a 
saucej^an, with a little butter, till they are hot. 
Boil about a couple of tablespoonfuls of milk 
separately, and add, mixing them thoroughly with 
a fork, and mould into some shape. 

A mould of mashed potatoes will brown in the 
oven. 

Potatoes, Borders of. — Make some mashed pota- 
toes ; shape it into a border, leaving a hole in the 
middle for some hash or stew. A very simple 
round shape can be made by placing a jam-pot in a 
cake-tin, and filling in the ring. A very little 
ingenuity with a scooped carrot or turnip will 
give the mould a fluted appearance round the 
outside. Beat up the yolk of an egg and brush 



AT SMALL COST. 287 

the outside of the border, and bake it in the oven 
till it is of a nice colour ; then fill the inside with 
some good hash or mince. The yolk of egg is not 
essential. 

Potted Meats. — All kinds of meats can • be 
potted, and one general principle holds good for 
all. Remove the meat from the bones of some 
cooked hare, pheasant, snipe, ptarmigan, chicken or 
fowl, goose, turkey, grouse, or any kind of bird, 
and stew the bones in a little stock Xo. 3 (see 
No. 10) till the stock becomes almost a glaze. 
Next, pound the flesh in a mortar, with half its 
quantity of cooked ham, and send this through a 
sausage-machine, or rub it all through a wire 
sieve — this latter being the best. Season this 
with nutmeg and cayenne pepper and salt. A 
little powdered bay-leaf may be added. The quan- 
tity of cayenne pepper and powdered nutmeg 
varies very much according to taste. If the potted 
meat is wanted to be kept a long time, a small tea- 
spoonful of each may be added to every pound of 
potted meat, but add rather less cayenne than nut- 
meg. Next, moisten the mixture with a little of 
the half-glaze made from the bones, and add some 
clarified fresh butter, melted in sufficient quantity 
to make the [whole moist. (All kinds of potted 
meat require a great deal of butter.) Press it 
down in jars, pour a little clarified butter over the 
top, and let it get thoroughly hot in the oven ; or, 
still better, expose it to the action of hot steam. 
Then take out the jars, and let the potted meat get 
cold. 

Too much spice and pepper spoil the flavour of 



288 CHOICE DISHES 

the meat. When, therefore, the potted meat is 
required for almost immediate use, add these 
sparingly. Red tongue can be mixed with fowl 
instead of ham, in which case a larger amount of 
butter must be used. 

Ham can be potted by mixing one pound of 
lean ham with a quarter of a pound of fat ham. 
Butter will do instead of fat, but must in any case 
be added afterwards. If glaze of very strong stock 
is used to moisten this, it must form a very hard 
jelly when it is cold. A ham bone chopped up 
will make sufficient glaze if simmered a long 
time. 

Lobster is best potted as follows : — Cut up all 
the meat of a lobster, coral and all, and put it in a 
stewpan with about one-third of the same quantity 
of clarified butter, and to every pound of flesh add 
four anchovies, filleted. (See Anchovy, To Fillet.) 
Let the saucepan be over the fire for about twenty 
minutes. Then pound the whole in a mortar with 
some powdered nutmeg, white pepper and cayenne. 
The quantity must vary according to the time the 
potted lobster is required to keep. Half a tea- 
spoonful of each to a pound of flesh, more or less, 
as the case may be, will, as a rule, be sufficient. 
Then rub the whole through a wire sieve, press 
down in jars, make hot, and cover with clarified 
butter as before. 

Shrimps and prawns are potted by pounding the 
heads and tails with some anchovies (four anchovies 
to a pound of meat) in a mortar with a little 
butter. Then rub all you can through a wire 
sieve, and add the picked shrimps or prawns whole, 
and some clarified butter. Season with nutmeg 



AT SMALL COST. 289 

and cayenne as before, press do^^al in jars, cover 
with clarified butter, and keep in a cool place. 

Bloaters can be potted by scalding half a dozen 
bloaters, skinning and boning them, and mixing 
the flesh with about eight ounces of clarified 
butter, and seasoning with nutmeg or cayenne. 
Make hot over the fire, pound all in a mortar, rub 
through a wire sieA^e, press down in jars, and cover 
with clarified butter. 

Smoked haddock, kippered salmon, and smoked 
salmon can be potted in a similar manner. 

It is of the utmost importance, in all the above 
directions, to have the butter perfectly pure — 
i.e., it must he butter, and not fat. In the present 
day of the almost universal adulteration practised 
by buttermen, this constitutes a difiiculty. 

N.B. — When whole anchovies are recommended 
to be pounded, if these are not easily obtainable, 
a pro[)ortionate quantity of anchovy sauce can be 
added instead. 

Poulet, a la Marengo. — Parboil a fowl, and cut 
it up into neat joints. Let these get cold, and use 
the bones of the carcase, i.e., the back and ribs, to 
assist in making some very good rich brown gra\^'. 
(See Gravy.) When the joints are cold, brown 
them in a frying-pan, in which a very little butter 
has been placed, but which is made venj hot. 
Warm up these joints in the gravy, to which have 
been added some chopped mushrooms, or a small 
tin of mushrooms, a tablespoonful of tomato pulp 
(this is now sold in bottles), or a teaspoonful 
of good tomato sauce, and some pepper and 
salt. 



290 CHOICE DISHES 

Garnish the dish with fried croutons of bread 
and some fried eggs. 

These fried eggs slioiild be droi)ped into rather 
deep hot fat, and be fried brown all round. For 
this to be done, it is essential that the fat should 
be dee]). A few stoned olives should be placed 
round the dish at the last moment. Little slices 
of calf's brain, quite white, in which a small piece 
of black truffle has been stuck, is of course an 
improvement. 

Poulet a la Marengo should be served in a silver 
dish, four little crayfish placed at each corner, and 
one on the top. A dessertspoonful of sherry may 
be added to the sauce, which must be entirely 
free from grease. 

The white brains with the black centre, the little 
bro^vn balls (fried eggs), the fried croutons and the 
red crayfish, form a very pretty garnish. 

The truffles and crayfish, as well as the calf's 
brains, are, of course, not absolutely essential. 

Pound Cake. (See Cake, Pouxd.) 
Prawns, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Prunes, Stewed. — Let the prunes, after being 
washed, soak all night in cold water. Take them 
out, and let the liquid settle ; then pour it ofi", and 
stew the prunes in this gently for an hour, adding 
a small piece of cinnamon, a small piece of lemon- 
peel, and sufficient sugar to make the juice a syrup. 
Add, when cold, a glass of port wine. 

Ptarmigan. (See Grouse, Norwegian.) 

Pudding, Christmas. (See Plum Pudding, 

Christmas.) 



AT SMALL COST. 291 

Pudding, Fruit. — A fruit pudding, like a meat 
one, can Le either boiled in a basin or in a cloth 
without a basin. Proceed in every respect as for 
making a meat pudding. (See Pudding, Meat.) 
The paste may be rolled out a little thinner. 

Of course, the only ingredients for the inside are 
fruity sugar, and water. The proportions of these 
for nearly every kind of fruit is to every quart of 
strung currants, gooseberries, damsons, greengages, 
apples, peeled, cored and quartered, rhubarb cut 
into inch pieces, cheiTies, plums, raspberries, black- 
berries, &c., &c., &c., three tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar and three tablespoonfuls of water. 

Pudding, Meat. — A meat pudding is simply 
meat and gravy surrounded by a suet crust and 
boiled. Sometimes the meat pudding is boiled in a 
basin tied over with a cloth, and sometimes it is 
boiled in a cloth without a basin. In the latter 
case, the pudding crust will swell more, and, when 
cut, there will not appear to be quite enough meat 
for the crust. Still, for an " economical " childrens' 
dinner, a meat pudding boiled in a cloth without 
the basin is preferable to one boiled in the basin. 

We will suppose the contents of the pudding to 
be two pounds of beef-steak. Cut up into pieces 
about two inches long, an inch wide, and an inch 
thick (iST.B. — A quarter of a pound of this steak 
should be fat), a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful, 
or rather less, of black pepper, a teaspoonful of 
chopped onion and parsley — half of each — some 
stock 'No. 3 (see Xo. 10), or some water. 

First, to boil in the basin : — 

Make some suet paste for puddings of the I'ich- 



292 CHOICE DISHES 

ness required (see Paste, Suet, for Puddings); roll 
it out to about a quarter of an inch thick. Take a 
basin with a thick rim. Line this basin, after 
buttering it, with the rolled-out paste. Trim it 
round the edge with a floury knife, so that the edge 
of the paste rests on the edge of the basin fully, 
but without hanging over. Fill this well of paste 
in the basin with the meat, chopped onion and 
parsley, pepper and salt, and fill up with the 
stock or water. Roll out a piece of paste big 
enough to cover over, wetting the edge of the 
paste on the rim of the basin first to make it 
stick. When the cover of paste has been put on, 
cut round the outside of the basin, and trim 
off the spare paste with a floury knife, and pinch 
the two pieces of paste together with the fingers. 
That is, pinch together the top and the edge of the 
paste first put into the basin, so as to make the 
two join. Next, flour a cloth, and cover over the 
top of the basin. This flour will prevent the cloth 
sticking to the paste. Tie the cloth tight with 
a string round the rim of the basin, twisting 
the string round and round two or three times. 
Then bring up the cloth again, and tie it together 
so that the basin hangs. Boil the pudding in 
the basin, in plenty of boiling water, for three 
hours. When done, take out the pudding, untie 
the cloth, and take it off, and turn out the pudding 
on to a dish. The pudding is none the worse for 
breaking a little. If possible, add a little more 
boiling stock to the jmdding in the dish. 

To boil in a cloth without the basin. Take a 
pudding-cloth, flour it, and place it in a basin. 
Roll out the paste, and place it in the cloth in the 



AT SMALL COST. 293 

basin. Fill the paste in the cloth as before, then 
add the ingredients, and cover the ]3udding with a 
top, proceeding in every respect as if the cloth did 
not exist between the basin and the paste ; then 
gather up the outside flaps of the cloth, flour them, 
bring them over the top, and tie them tight round 
with a string, still leaving room for the pudding to 
swell. Lift the pudding in the cloth lightly out of 
the basin, holding the cloth where it is tied 
together. Plunge it into a saucepan of boiling 
water, and let it boil for about three hours. When 
done, take it out, let it drain for a few minutes, 
then untie the cloth and turn out the pudding on to 
a dish, adding, if possible^ a little more boiling 
stock No. 3. (N.B. — Put a saucer in the saucepan 
for the pudding to rest on ; this will prevent its 
sticking and burning.) 

Puddings, Meat, Various. — In the above 
pudding I recommended two pounds of beef-steak 
(a quarter of a pound of which should be fat), one 
teaspoonful of pepper, one of salt, and one of equal 
parts of chopped onion and parsley, also some 
stock Ko. 3. Of course, as the gravy of a meat 
pudding forms a most important part of it, the 
better the stock the better the pudding; still, a 
great deal of the goodness of the meat will add to 
the richness of the gravy in boiling. To the above 
may be added for better puddings one or two 
sheep's kidneys cut up, or some bullock's kidney, 
but sheep's are far better ; also a dozen oysters, 
with their liquor, and one or two fresh mushrooms. 
Also larks or snipe, the former whole, the latter 
cut in halves. In this case, always try and add 



294 CHOICE DISHES 

half a saltspoonful of the mixed spices used in 
making liver force-meat (see Liver Force-meat), 
also a little liver force-meat can be put inside each 
lark and each snipe. 

Pudding, Plum. (See Plum.) 

Pudding, Suet. (See Suet.) 

Puff Paste. (See Paste, Puff.) 

Quails, Roast. — Quails are more plentiful now 
than formerly, being sent over in vast quantities, 
alive, from abroad. Pluck and draw the bii'ds, and 
roast before a brisk fire or in a quick oven. Baste 
with butter, and serve on toast. Time : about 
fifteen minutes. 

In drawing the bii'ds, reserve the liver and trail, 
cook in a little butter, and pound them, and spread 
over the toast on which the birds are placed, adding 
a little pepper and salt. 

The birds can be roasted without being drawn at 
all ; in which case, take care that the toast catches 
whatever of the trail may fall. 

Quince. — The quince is a hard fruit, possessing 
a very strong flavour. They are very likely to 
make their presence known in a house when kept 
raw : one quince in this respect being possessed of 
fifty-apple-power. Oue quince cut up and added to 
an apple pie is a great improvement, especially 
when cold. 

Rabbit, Baked and Roast. — The drawback to 
rabbit is, that the flesh, as a rule, is somewhat dry. 
In roasting or baking a rabbit, therefore, cover the 
rabbit, after it is skinned, draA\Ti, and soaked in 



AT SMALL COST. 295 

cold water for an hour, with thin slices of bacon. 
This will keep the rabbit well basted, and also the 
bacon itself can be eaten wdtli the rabbit after- 
wards. The bacon can be removed near the finish, 
and the rabbit browned. Make a little gra^-y in 
the dripping-pan (see No. 3), and serve with the 
rabbit. Put the bacon round it, and also serve 
some plain boiled potatoes with it. Time to roast 
or bake, from forty minutes to one hour, according 
to size. 

N.B. — Roast ral)bit can be stuffed with veal 
stuffing (see Veal), sage-and-onion stuffing (see 
Sage), or liver force-meat (see Liver.) 

Rabbit, Boiled. — Have the rabbit skinned, 
drawn, and soaked, as before, for an hour in cold 
water. Boil (see No. 1) : for about half an hour 
for a young rabbit, up to one hour for a large one. 
Serve with onion sauce (see Onion Sauce), or 
parsley-and-butter sauce. Rabbits are best boiled 
in a stock-pot. (See No. 10.) 

Rabbit, Boiled, To Carve. — First, separate the 
legs and shoulders ; then cut the back across into 



RABBIT, BOILED, TO CARVE, 



two parts. This may readily be accomplished by 
inserting the knife in the joint, and raising up the 



296 CHOICE DISHES 

back with the fork. As in the case of the liare, 
the back of the rabbit is best worth eating. 

Rabbit, Curried. — Parboil the rabbit for about 
twenty minutes, in the stock-pot, if possible. (See 
No. .10.) Let it drain and get cold; then cut up 
the rabbit into joints. Flour these, and fry them 
of a light brown colour, in a frying-pan with a 
little fat or butter. (See No. 6.) Warm these 
joints up in some curry sauce. It is, however, 
more economical to cut the meat from the bones, 
and only curry the meat. (See Curry Sauce.) 

The remains of roast or boiled rabbit will make 
curry by simply being warmed up in the curry 
sauce. It is generally best to cub the meat from 
the bones, warm up the meat only in the curry, 
and put the bones back to make stock. This 
can be done whether the curry is made from a 
whole rabbit, or merely from the remains of one 
that has been served previously. 

Rabbit Pie. — The rabbit should be parboiled, 
and cut up into joints, and placed in a pie-dish, 
with sufficient stock or water to cover it ; the water 
in which it was boiled would do. Place thin slices 
of bacon in with the rabbit, a few scraps of cold 
veal, a little chopped parsley and onion, season 
with salt and pepper, cover w^itli a paste and bake. 
(See Pie, Meat.) This is an ordinary, quick, and 
common way of making rabljit pie, A far better 
way, so that it can be eaten cold like game pie, is 
as follows : — 

Rabbit Pie, Cold, as Game Pie.— Take an 
ordinary-sized rabbit, parboil it for twenty minutes, 



AT SMALL COST. 297 

cut the meat from the bones and let the bones help 
to make a stock No. 3 (see No. 10) which will be 
a jelly when cold. Take half a pound of calf's 
liver and half a pound of bacon, and make some 
liver force-meat (see Liver Force-meat), only 
seasoned with doulDle the quantity of the mixed 
herbs and spices there given. Cut up half a pound 
of rather lean ham or bacon into small pieces, and 
place the flesh of the rabbit, the liver force-meat, 
and the bacon, in a pie-dish. Press the meat 
slightly together and nearly fill the dish, Pour in 
the stock, which must make a jelly wdien cold. 
Cover the pie with puff-paste. (See Paste, Puff.) 
Bake in the oven for nearly an hour. When 
baked pour in gi-adually through the hole in the 
top some more stock, so as to fill the pie up to the 
crust with gravy. Tliis can be poured in when the 
gravy is nearly set. Serve cold. The stock must 
be rather highly flavoured with onion, or, still 
better, garlic and black pepper. This is very like 
good game pie. 

Rabbit Soup. (See Mulligatawny.) — A white 
SOU]) can be made from rabbit by rubbing the white 
meat through a wire sieve after boiling the rabbit 
in stock, reducing this (see No. 26) by boiling, and 
adding some boiling milk. (See White Soup.) 

Rabbits, Choosing of. — When purchasing a 
rabbit, see that the animal is fresh and young. If 
fresh the body will be stiff", the flesh white and 
dry in appearance, and of a sweet smell. If stale 
the flesh would be slimy and blue, with a tainted 
odour. If young the claws and the coat will be 
smooth, the nose sharp-pointed, and the ears 



298 CHOICE DISHES 

tender and easily torn ; if old the wool will be 
mixed with grey hairs, and the claws long and 
rough. Eabbits ought not to be kept more than a 
day or two after they are killed. In order to 
distinguish wild rabbits from tame ones, examine 
the paws and the tail. Wild rabbits have hair on 
their paws, and the under part of the tail is of a 
reddish colour. 

Rabbits, Trussing of. — To truss a rabbit for 
boiling : — Draw the fore-legs backwards, and the 
hind-legs forwards, bring the head round to the 
side, and fasten it there with a skewer run through 
it and the body. To truss a rabbit for roasting : — 
Skewer the head firmly between the shoulders. 
Draw the legs close to the body, and pass a skewer 
through them. 

Raspberries, Iced, for Dessert. — Raspberries 
can be iced like currants for dessert, but are liable 
to break (see Currants for Dessert), especially if, 
as they should be, they are very ripe. They take 
a very long time to dry. A little weak gum is 
better than whipped-up white of egg. 

Raspberry Ice. (See Ice, from Fruit.) 

Raspberry Jam. (See Jam.) 

Raspberry Pudding. (See Pudding, Fruit.) 

Raspberry Tart. (See Pie, Fruit.) 

Raspberry Water Ice. (See Ice Water Fruit.) 

Ray. — This fish, which is in season during the 
winter months, is very similar to skate, and should 
be treated like skate in every respect. 

Red Mullet. (See Mullet.) 



AT SMALL COST. 299 

Rhubarb Fool. — Stew the rhubarb till tender 
with a very little water. Sometimes the rhubarb 
requires peeling. Sweeten the rhubarb with some 
moist sugar, rub it through a wire sieve, and mix 
with about half a pint of milk, boiled separately, 
in which a dessertspoonful of Swiss milk has been 
dissolved. Proportions : three parts pnlp to one part 
milk. A yolk of an egg can be beaten up in the 
milk after it has boiled, but the egg must not boil. 

Custard can be used instead of milk, in which 
case rather more custard will be required than 
milk. 

Rhubarb Jam. (See Jam.) 

Rhubarb Pie. (See Pie, Fruit.) 

Rhubarb Pudding. (See Pudding, Fruit.) 

Rhubarb, Stewed. — Stew the rhubarb in a very 
little water, only sufficient to moisten the bottom 
of the ste^vpau ; when tender, sweeten with moist 
sugar. Rhubarb can be stewed by placing it cut up 
in a jar with some sugar, and placing the jar in the 
oven. A little cochineal will improve the colour. 

Rice and Onion, — Cut up a onion and fry it a 
nice brown without burning it. Put the fried 
onion in a saucepan with half a pound of rice, 
and add some No. 3 Stock (see No. 10) or water, 
and let the rice cook gently, and let it soak up 
the stock, taking care the rice does not burn. 
Season with a little nutmeg and pepper, and serve 
with grated cheese. Parmesan is the best, but 
any pieces of stale cheese-rind can be turned to 
account. When this mixture is coloured yellow 
with saffiron, and seized with the rice what we 



300 CHOICE DISHES 

should call lialf-cooked — i.e., hard in the middle — 
it forms the popular Italian dish known as Risotto 
a la Milanaise. It is quite possible that in this 
half-cooked form there may be more stay in it. It 
is generally served at the commencement of dinner. 
It is a very economical dish. 

Rice boiled for Curry. — Throw the washed rice 
into boiling water, and let it boil till it is nearly 
tender, strain it into a sieve, and wash it w^th 
plenty of cold water, separating the grains as much 
as possible. Put the rice back into a buttered 
saucepan, put the saucepan on to a warm place by 
the side of the fire, and let the rice get gradually 
hot again, swell, and dry, This is the way some 
Indian curry cooks boil their rice on board ship. 

Rice, Borders of. — Plain boiled rice makes an 
excellent border for stews, or any good hash, or 
rich mince — such as minced chicken — as well as 
for fruit. The rice border can be veiy much 
improved in appearance by pounding the soft 
boiled rice into a paste, mixing in some eggs, and 
shaping it either with a mould (a circular cake tin 
does very well for the purpose), or with the hands, 
into some ornamental shape, and then baking in 
an oven. Remember, however, if the rice is in- 
tended for meat, to boil the rice in stock. If the 
rice is intended for sweets, boil the rice in milk. 

A very good method of shaping the rice is to 
get a strip of carrot and scoop it hollow^ so as 
when it is pressed against the soft rice it Avill make 
it form a semicircular buttress. The mould can be 
fluted all the way round with one strip, and of 
course all the projections will be the same size. 



AT SMALL COST. 301 

The rice border can be washed over with a little 
oiled butter, and baked a light brown in the oven. 

A rice border for meat can be ornamented with 
red chili, green gherkin, black pickled walnuts, or 
still better, sliced truffles, hard-boiled yolks, kc. 

A lice border for sweets can be ornamented 
with red preserved cherries, some yellow candied 
fruit, and green angelica. (See 'No. 29.) All 
kinds of tinned fruits look very pretty served in 
an ornamented rice border. 

Rice Cakes. — Boil half a pound of rice in some 
milk or water till the milk or water is soaked up 
by the rice, sweeten the mixture with some moist 
sugar; when the rice is tender, and thoroughly 
moist, without being watery, add sufficient beateii- 
up eggs to set the rice when baked — two will 
generally be sufficient, but the amount of egg 
varies generally with the quality of rice — butter a 
tin, and put the mixture in about an inch deep, 
and bake in the oven till slightly browned on the 
top. Take out the cake and cut it into strips. 

These cakes can. be flavoured by adding to the 
milk or water essence of vanilla, essence of lemon, 
essence of almond, nutmeg, &c., or by rubbing 
lump sugar on lemon-peel. 

A large square cake one inch thick can be very 
prettily ornamented as follows : — Lay on it before 
you cut it up strips of marmalade and red jam 
alternately, keeping the strips about two inches 
wide ; then -svith a long, sharp knife cut the cake 
into strips two inches wide across the roAvs of jam. 
By reversing the position of each alternate strip 
the cake assumes the appearance of a chessboard, 



302 CHOICE DISHES 

having perfect squares of red and yellow. Apricot 
jam looks better than marmalade. 

Rice Flummery. — Take a pint of milk and boil 
it, sweeten it with some sugar, and add a quarter 
of an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched (see 
Almoxds) and pounded, or a few drops of essence 
of almonds will do. Take about a couple of table- 
spoonfuls of ground rice and mix it with a little 
cold milk, and then thicken the boiling milk with 
it. (See No. 13.) Stir it till it begins to assume 
an elastic appearance, then pour it into a mould. 
Let it get cold ; turn it out into a glass dish. 
Ornament it by sticking thin strips of almonds into 
it, and pour a custard or sweet sauce round the base. 

This sweet can be flavoured in various ways. 
Instead of using almonds pounded, or essence of 
almonds, lemon-peel, or essence of vanilla, or 
cinnamon may be substituted. In ornamenting, 
strips of angelica can also be used. 

Rice, Plain Boiled. — To boil rice well is not so 
easy as many persons would think. Each grain 
should be tender, and yet separate fi^om every 
other grain, i.e., the grains of rice should not all 
cling and stick together in a mash. Tlie first point 
in boiling rice is to see that the rice is clean ; for 
this purpose it is necessary to wash it well in 
several waters. Next, get a large saucepan or 
stewpan full of boiling water slightly salted, 
take the rice and sprinkle it with the hand into 
the Avater, boil it for ten minutes, then strain it 
off in a sieve ; place the rice back in the saucepan 
after buttering the bottom of the stewpan, and let 
the rioe gradually swell and dry. Occasionally stir 



AT SMALL COST. 303 

the rice while drying. The saucepan should not be 
put on the fire, but simply kept hot by the side of 
the fire. After about fifteen or twenty minutes 
the rice will be done. 

Rice Pudding, Baked. — Boil a quart of milk 
or a quart of water in which a tablespoonful of 
Swiss milk has been dissolved. Throw in some* 
rice, and let it simmer a short time, pour it into a 
pie-dish and bake in the oven till it is browned on 
the top. The milk should be sweetened with 
sugar. If Swiss milk is used it will be nearly 
sweet enough. 

Rice Pudding, Boiled, Plain. — Tie up some 
rice — say, a teacujiful — in a cloth, leaving plenty of 
room for the rice to swell. Indeed, the cloth tied 
up should have the appearance of an empty bag, 
almost. Put this into a saucepan of boiling water. 
Recollect, the rice will soak up a good deal of the 
water, and some may have to be added. Put a 
saucer at the bottom of the saucepan, to prevent 
the pudding sticking. Boil till tender — probable 
time, about a couple of hours. Serve with brown 
sugar or sweet sauce, or, still better, bro^\ai sugar 
and sherry. (See Sweet Sauce.) 

Raisins can be boiled with rice. 

* It is impossible to say wliat quantity of rice should be 
added to the puddinj?. Some jjersons like the pudding stiff, 
some quite milky. For a milky pudding two tablesijoonfuls of 
rice is sufficient for a quart. Remember, rice swells. It is a 
very common mistake with ignorant people to put in far too 
much rice. 

Bakers who bake for the poor are constantly obliged to take 
out several tablespoonfuls of rice from the puddings sent to 
them to bake on Sundays, in order to send back the pudding 
eatable. 



304 CHOICE DISHES 

Kice pudding can also be made by boiling the 
rice in sweetened milk till the rice is tender and 
has soaked up the milk, when it can be turned 
out on to a dish, or served in a pie-dish. Swiss 
milk and water is an admirable substitute for 
sweetened milk. This pudding can be flavoured in 
a variety of ways— by boiling spices, such as cinna- 
mon, cloves, &c., in the milk, or adding essences, 
such as vanilla, almond, lemon, (tc. 

Rice Soup. — Take the remains of any boiled 
rice in which the grains do not stick together, and 
warm it up in some clear Stock No. 1 or No. 2. 
(See No. 10.) This is clear rice soup. 

Boil some rice in some No. 3 Stock, remembering 
that a little rice will go a long way, and it does 
not do to have the soup too thick. This is an 
excellent economical nourishing soup, suitable for 
invalids and children. 

A rich rice soup can be made by boiling some 
rice in some good No. 3 or No. 4 Stock, before 
any extract of meat is added, and rubbing half the 
rice through a wire sieve (No. 21) to thicken the 
soup. Add an equal quantity of boiling milk to 
the stock, and add three yolks of eggs to each quart 
of soup. Do not let the yolks boil, but beat them 
separately with a little hot soup in the tureen 
(previously warmed) ; add the remainder of the hot 
soup, and serve with fried bread. The eggs are not 
essential. 

Rice, Various ways of Cooking.— There are 
almost an infinite variety of dishes to be made 
from rice. Rice can be made into borders in which 
meats of various kinds — such as mince, stews. 



AT SMALL COST. 305 

hashes, (tc. — can be placed, as ^vell as preserves of 
all sorts — such as jams, stewed fruits, apples, <tc. 
Kice, after it has been boiled fairly tender and 
allowed to dry, can be fried a light brown, and is 
in this shape the basis of a number oi' dishes 
popular in the East. Saffron is often added, as 
well as fried onion and various kinds of meat, such 
as fowl, &c. ; in which shape, with some stewed 
raisins, it forms a well-known Eastern dish known 
as Pilau. Keceipts for a few of the most common 
preparations of rice will be given under their dis- 
tinctive headings. 

Rice Water. — The water in which rice is boiled 
contains a considerable amount of nourishment, 
and, under certain cii'cumstauces, more than the 
rice itself. When rice is taken as a nourishing 
food, it is best to cook it so that it, when tender, 
soaks up the liquor in which it was boiled. To 
make rice-water, boil some rice in some water till 
the rice is thoroughly tender. Strain off the rice 
for a pudding. Sweeten the water with a little 
sugar, and flavour it with a few strips of lemon- 
peel. Let it get cold. This is a very nice, whole- 
some drink for children in hot weather, especially 
with a lump of ice in it. 

Rice with Cheese. — Boil some rice in some milk 
till it is tender and has soaked up the milk ; then 
mix in some grated cheese, pepper and salt ; put 
the mixture in a small pie-dish, or tin, shake some 
grated cheese over the top, and bake in the oven 
till the top is nicely browned. The mixture must 
be fairly moist before it is baked, or it will get dry. 
Many think it a considerable improvement to mix 
u 



308 CHOICE DISHES 

in a good teaspoonful of made mustard before 
baking. Mustard should be served with it. This- 
can be eaten instead of cheese. The remains 
of the rind of cheese can be used up for the 
grated cheese. Water can be used instead of 
milk. 

Ric3, with Lobster. — Make a rice border (see 
Rice, Borders of), and colour the mixture of 
rice a deep red while pounding it with some 
lobster butter (see Lobster Butter), and make 
a red border. Some of the red rice mixture can be 
rolled into red marbles, and some uncoloured into 
white marbles, and placed alternately round the 
top of the border. Fill the border with some 
mixture of lobster (see Lobster Cutlets and 
Lobster Sauce), or some curried lobster — i.e., some 
meat of the lobster warmed up in curry sauce. 
(See Curry Sauce.) The contents of a tin of 
lobster warmed up in some very hot and strong 
curry sauce makes a capital curry to fill this pretty 
red case. 

Rice with Tomato. — Chop up a small piece of 
onion, and fry it in a little butter till the pieces 
are a light brown ; mix it with some plain boiled 
rice, dry, which can also be fried a light brown ; 
add a little pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of 
tomato pulp. This quantity should about fill* a 
pint measure. Serve hot with grated cheese at the 
commencement of dinner. 

Risotto. (See Rice and Oxion.) 

Rissoles. — Rissoles, or croquettes, are little balls 
made of savoury mince, bound together with egg 



AT SMALL COST. 307 

and fried. This mince is generally made from the 
remains of cold meat, as follows : — 

Take four tablespoonfuls of chopped lean beef, 
or mutton, or veal, two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
fat, two tablespoonfuls of chopped cold ham or bacon, 
a piece of onion the size of the thumb down to just 
below the first joint, a teaspoonful of chopj^ed 
parsley, a piece of lemon-peel the size of the thumb- 
nail, and as thin, chopped xery small, a saltspoonful 
of thyme, a saltspoonful of black pepi)er, a third 
of one of cayenne, a saltspoonful of salt. Chop all 
very fine, and if possible send it all through a 
sausage-machine. Mix thoroughly together in a 
basin, and add an ^gg well beaten-up. Ptoll the 
mixture into balls the size round of a large walnut ; 
flour them, or rather, roll the balls in a little 
flour, and fry them brown in a little very hot fat. 
(See No. 6, also see Fowl^ Mi>'ced.) 

Rissoles (a better way). — Beat up two eggs, 
and keep some of the mixture to moisten the balls 
after they have been floured. Then bread-crumb 
them. (See No. 20.) Fry these a light brown, 
and serve with fried parsley. Some good broA\Ti 
gravy can be poured round these rissoles. 

Cold turkey, fowl, (tc, make excellent rissoles. 
Act exactly as above, only have two tablespoonfuls 
of chopped meat to one of lean ham or bacon and 
one of fat. (Also see Fowl, Mixced.) 

When mushrooms can be obtained, they are an 
immense improvement to rissoles. The proportion 
should be three parts mixture to one part mush- 
rooms — i. e., mushrooms should form one-fourth of 
the whole. It is a mistake to think that adding 



308 CHOICE DISHES 

more egg will make the rissoles better. This is not 
the case. Only add sufficient raw egg to moisten 
the mixture sufficiently to bind it. Too much egg 
will harden the rissole when cooked. A very little 
rich gravy, which makes a hard jelly when cold, 
can be added w4th advantage. Red tongue will do 
instead of lean ham. Red tongue and bacon-fat 
make a nice substitute for ham. 

Rissoles in Paste. — Make some rissoles, as 
above. (See also Fowl, Minced.) Roll out some 
puff paste as thin as possible, and moisten each 
ball, instead of flouring it, with beaten-up egg. 
Then surround each ball with a thin coat of paste. 
Pinch the edge of paste together, and pinch off 
what is not wanted. These balls should be about 
as big round as a small walnut. Dip each ball 
of meat surrounded by paste in yolk of egg beaten 
up ; or brush the ball over with a beaten-up yolk 
of egg ; sprinkle some small broken-up vermicelli 
on each ball. The vermicelli will stick to the 
paste when egged over. Fry each ball in some 
very hot fat. (See No. 6.) As soon as they are a 
nice brown, take them out, and serve in a folded 
napkin, with fried parsley. 

Roach. — Wash and clean the fish. Dry them 
thoroughly, and flour them. Fry them (see No. 6), 
and serve them with fried parsley. Serve with 
Harvey Sauce, Worcester Sauce, or Anchovy Sauce, 
or serve with cut lemon and cayenne pepper. 

Roach are also nice gi'illed, after being well 
peppered. They are not particularly good boiled, 
but can be stewed in French white Avine. (See 
Fish, Fresh-water.) 



AT SMALL COST. SOP 

Roast, To. (See No. 3.) 

Roly Poly Pudding. — Roll out some suet crust 
for puddings (see Paste, Suet, for Puddings) 
about an eighth of an inch thick. Spread this 
over, up to within three quarters of an inch of the 
edges, with treacle, or any kind of jam. Moisten 
the edges where it is rolled, and pinch them 
together, as well as the long edges, which should be 
fastened down. Roll the pudding up in a floured 
cloth, tie tightly, and boil for two hours. 

Rook Pie. — Young rooks make an excellent pie, 
added to steak. The best part of the rook is the 
breast, but the wings and legs can be eaten. 
Never, however, put in the back. The rook had 
better be stewed gently for a couple of hours in 
some good gravy, then added to the pie. (See Pie, 
Pigeon.) Rook pie requires plenty of black 
pepper and hard-boiled eggs. Proceed exactly as 
in making pigeon pie, substituting stewed rook for 
pigeon. 

Roux, White or Brown. (See No. 12.) 
Rump-steak. (See Steak.) 
Rump-steak Pie. (See Pie, Meat.) 
Rump-steak Pudding. (See Pudding, Meat.) 
Sage-and-Onion Stuffing. — This is a very com- 
mon stuffing, and as nice as it is common. It is 
used with roast pork, roast goose, roast duck, &c. 

To make ordinary sage-and-onion stuffing, take, 
say, four good-sized onions and eight fresh* sage- 

* Fresh sage-leaves cannot always be obtained, in which 
case you must get dried leaves. It takes quite two dried 
leaves to equal one fresh one. If dried a long time, three will 
be required for one fresh. 



310 CHOICE DISHES 

leaves, and boil them for four or five minutes ; then 
chop them together very fine, and add four table- 
spoonfuls of fine bread crumbs, or more if the 
onions are large, a teaspoonful of black pepper and 
another of salt. If the stuffing is liked rich, a yolk 
of egg may be added, but it is, in my opinion, very 
unnecessary. Many persons add butter, but this is 
also unnecessary, as sage-and-onion is almost always 
required for rich meats, such as pork, goose, itc. 

If the stuffing is liked mild, Spanish onions can 
be used, and they can be boiled longer. The cores 
of the onions can also be cut out. 

French cooks add a great deal more sage. 
Francatelli recommends one part of chopped sage- 
leaves to three parts chopped onion. On the other 
hand, many English cooks maintain that one 
fresh sage-leaf to one lai;^-e onion is sufficient. 
This is, of course, purely a matter of taste. In 
France roast goose or duck seems to have sage 
stuffing only, as the sage quite overpowers every 
other flavour. 

Sago for Invalids. — Wash a tablespoonful of 
sago in cold water, and then soak it for an hour or 
rather more in cold Avater. The water can be 
changed once or twice, as it is apt to be dirty ; then 
boil it in a pint of milk or water for about an hour. 
It can be sweetened and flavoured in various ways, 
to suit the taste and desire of the invalid. One of 
the nicest is a few strips of lemon-peel, sugar, and 
a little brandy and nutmeg. Sago varies in 
quality. If too thick, it is easily made thin by 
adding more milk or water. 

Sago Pudding. — Wash thoroughly two table- 



AT SMALL COST. 311 

spoonfuls of sago, and l:>oil it in a pint of milk 
or water, sweetened with sugar. When the 
sago and water become thick, turn it out into a 
pie-dish, and add one or more eggs, according to 
the desired richness, and an ounce of butter. 
Mix all well together, grate some nutmeg over 
the top, and bake in the oven for about an hour. 
Sago pudding can be flavoured in various ways, 
viz : lemon-peel, spices, such as cinnamon, cloves, 
&c. ; essences, sucli as almond, lemon, vanilla, 
&c. Nutmeg and sugar are, however, the plainest 
and the nicest. 

Sago Soup. — Wash about a tablespoonful of 
sago thoroughly, boil it in three pints of No. 1 or 
No, 2 Stock (see No. 10), and serve. This is a 
very nice cheap soup when made with Stock No. 2. 
Rub the saucepan well with a bead of garlic — i.e., 
if the flavour is not objected to. 

Salad. — The nicest of all salads is plain French 
lettuce-leaves, young, crisp, and dry. Old lettuces 
that have got bitter are worse than useless. Take 
a salad bowl, and rub the bottom of it with a bead 
of garlic or a slice of onion. Add the leaves of 
three French lettuces, quite dry. If possible avoid 
washing the leaves, but simply wipe them on a clean 
cloth. Next, if possible, add three fresh tarragon 
leaves, and a very little parsley, chopped very fine ; 
s^irinkle these over the salad. Boil an egg hard 
and cut it into quarters, and place round the edge 
of the dish. Do not dress the salad till it is 
wanted, and then proceed as follows for the above 
quantity : — Take a tablespoon, and [)lace in it a 
saltspoonful of salt and another of black pepper, 



312 CHOICE DISHES 

fill the spoon with oil, holding the spoon in the 
left hand. Stir up the salt, oil, and pepper, with 
a fork, and pour over the salad, and mix it to- 
gether for a minute, tossing the leaves round and 
round very lightly. Then add another tablespoon- 
ful of oil, and again mix thoroughly, so that every 
part of every leaf is thoroughly oiled before the 
vinegar is added. Then add about half a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, and again mix thoroughly. 

There is an admirable Spanish proverb about 
dressing salads. It says it requires four persons 
to mix a salad : — a spendthrift to throw in the oil, 
a miser to drop in the vinegar, a lawyer to add the 
seasoning, and a madman to stir it together. 

Salad dressed with Meat, &C. — Salads mayon- 
naise can be made exactly as lobster salad is made, 
by substituting for lobster cold boiled salmon, cold 
boiled sole, smoked salmon, cut very thin (raw), 
cold chicken, roast or boiled, cold turkey, cray- 
fish, picked prawns (very expensive), picked 
shrimps — this last is the most delicious salad there 
is. The shrimps must be fresh. A pint wdien 
picked will do for three lettuces. Two quarts of 
fresh-boiled shrimps will make a pint of picked. 
Act in every respect as in making lobster salad. 
(See Lobster Salad Mayonnaise.) When raw 
herrings or sardines are added to salad, mayonnaise 
sauce is not suitable. 

Salad, English, Old - fashioned. — The old- 
fashioned English salad is composed of a mixture 
in which lettuce is the chief part, but to which is 
added mustard-and-cress, beetroot, celery, cut up 
fine, spring onions, (tc. The salad-dressing for 



AT SMALL COST. 313 

tills varies according to the tradition in the family. 
It is a compound of milk or cream, hard-boiled 
yolks of eggs powdered, made mustard, pepper 
and salt, vinegar used rather freely, anchovy 
sauce, sugar, &c. Oil, which ought to form the 
chief part of salad-dressing, used to be dropped 
carefully as if it were some dangerous poison. 
Indeed, to a certain extent this was requisite, as 
the oil too often was green and rancid from liaving 
been kept too long. Perfectly pure oil, like per- 
fectly pure butter, is almost if not absolutely 
tasteless. 

Salad, German. (See German.) 

Salad, Lobster. (See Lobster.) 

Salmon, Boiled. — It is an open question among 
cooks as to whether salmon is best put into boiling 
water or cold water. The great secret, however, of 
having salmon nicely boiled, is to have it thoroughly 
done, but, like a boiled potato, it must be served 
directly it is done. Cooks too often have to keep 
fish hot. When this is done, never keep it hot in 
the water in which it was boiled, but take it out, 
put it on a fish-strainer, and cover it with hot cloths 
till wanted. Boil in the usual way (see No. 1), 
The time for boiling salmon entirely depends u]:»on 
its thickness. Do not forget to skim. 

The best sauce to serve with salmon is lobster 
sauce, but shrimp sauce, caper sauce (do not chop 
the capers), Dutch sauce, can also be sent up with 
it. Also serve cut cucumber with salmon. (See 
Cucumber, Dressed.) 

Salmon Cutlets. — Slices of satmon cut an inch 



314 CHOICE DISHES 

thick, and gi'illed in oiled paper (see Salmon, 
Grilled), are sometimes called salmon cutlets. 
Also salmon can be cut into little thin slices, the 
size of an ordinary cutlet, and these slices should 
be soaked for some hours in good olive oil, in which 
is mixed some pepper and salt and parsley. The 
slices are then taken out, and grilled quickly over a 
fierce fire a nice bright brown colour on each side. 

The best salmon cutlets, both for taste, economy, 
and appearance, can be made out of the remains of 
cold boiled salmon as follows : Pound the meat 
in a mortar, or mix it up in a basin ; add to each 
pound of pounded meat a piece of onion the size of 
the top of the thumb down to the nail, a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce. The onion and parsley 
must be chopped very fine. Add sufficient butter 
to moisten it, and mix very thoroughly, and add 
one egg beaten up. Mould this mixture into 
little cutlets rather bigger than an oval picnic 
biscuit; flour them to make them dry. Egg-and- 
bread-crumb them (see No. 20). Fry them a nice 
golden brown in some very hot fat (see No, 6), and 
serve with fried parsley. 

It is best to make these cutlets an hour before 
they are fried, as the bread crumbs then dry a little, 
and brown more quickly. As the salmon is already 
cooked, the quicker they are browned the better. 

A very great improvement both in flavour and 
appearance to the above, is to add a little lobster 
butter (see Lobster Butter), say, a teaspoonful. 
It must be thoroughly mixed. A small bare bone 
an inch and a half long, cut from the end of neck 
of lamb or mutton, can be stuck into each cutlet to 



AT SMALL COST. 315 

represent the bone, and a little paper frill tied 
round it, or a little piece of wood will do. This 
makes a very pretty-looking dish. 

Excellent salmon cutlets can be made this way 
from timied salmon, especially if lobster butter is 
obtainable. This makes a very elegant and yet 
very cheap dish. Tinned salmon as a rule will not 
require any butter at all : it is rich and oily. 

Salmon, Grilled. — Salmon is best cut in slices 
an inch thick and grilled in the ordinary way (see 
iSTo. 5), basting it with a little butter. A slice of 
salmon tastes still better when it is wrapped up in 
a piece of well-oiled paper, and cooked on the 
gridiron in the paper. The fire must be very clear. 
Pepper and salt the slice of salmon before grilling 
it. Grilled salmon does not require any sauce 
such as lobster sauce, but Tartar sauce should 
be served with it, as well as dressed cucumber. 
(See Cucumber, Dressed.) (See Tartar Sauce.) 
Another nice sauce with grilled salmon, especially 
for breakfast, when cucumber is undesirable, is 
pickle sauce. (See Pickle Sauce.) 

Salmon, Pickled. — Put the remains of a boiled 
salmon into a pie-dish, removing the big bones first, 
's\dth a liquor composed of two-thirds of the water 
in which the salmon was boiled, and one-third 
vinegar. Add to, say, two pounds of salmon, a 
teaspoonful of whole peppercorns. Let the liquor 
thoroughly cover the fish. Make it hot through in 
the oven, and then let it get cold. Serve in the 
liquor with a few sprigs of fennel. A bay-leaf or 
two may be added to the pickle. Skim the liquor 
after it gets hot. This quantity of vinegar will 



316 CHOICE DISHES 

he found quite sufficient. English vinegar of a 
dark colour is better than the so-called white wine 
vinegar. 

Salmon, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Salmon, Smoked. — Salmon smoked when it is 
good makes an excellent salad mayonnaise (see 
Salad). It should be cut very thin, with a sharp 
knife. If possible, have the slices the thickness o£ 
a five-pound note. 

Smoked salmon cut tliin can also be sent up as- 
an appetiser or " Hors d'oeuvre." It is also ex- 
cellent cut in slices and made hot in a clean frying- 
pan. This is a very appetising dish for breakfast. 

Salmon, Tinned. — Tinned salmon can be eaten 
cold with oil or vinegar, or it can be made into 
cutlets (see Salmon Cutlets). It also makes ex- 
cellent sandwiches suitable for suppers. Pound the 
fish in a mortar with some anchovy sauce, a dessert- 
spoonful to a small tin, also some cayenne pepper 
and black pepper. A little lobster butter is a great 
improvement. Spread this mixture between very 
thm slices of bread (see Sandwiches). 

Salmon, to Carve. — In carving salmon always 
cut parallel with the bone : one slice out of the 
thick part, and one slice out of the thin part, or 
the part nearest the belly of the fish. This thin 
part is lighter of colour and very glutinous. The 
redder raw salmon looks, the better it is. 

Salmon Trout. — This fish is best grilled whole. 
It can be treated like salmon in every respect, but 
is far nicer grilled than boiled, except when it is 
very large, which rarely happens. Cucumber 



AT SMALL COST. 317 

and Tartar sauce (see Tartar Sauce) should be 
served up with it. Should you re-clress it for 
cutlets, &c., remember its flavour is more delicate 
than salmon, therefore add less seasoning of any 
kind, especially anchovy. 

Salt Fish. — Salt fish varies so much that it is 
impossible to give any one receipt that will meet 
all cases. Sometimes you can buy salt fish that 
you can cook at once, at other times it will require 
a couple of days to soak (changing the water re- 
peatedly) before it is fit for food. 

Put it into cold water, boil it till it is done, 
skimming the water. It may or may not get 
tender. Serve with egg sauce (see Egg Sauce) 
and boiled parsnips. Salted cod is, I think, the 
best fish. 

Sandwiches. — Those who have visited railway 
refreshment rooms would, perhaps, scarcely credit 
the idea that sandwiches can be made so that they 
are real delicacies. Very high-class sandwiches, 
suitable for ball suppers, can be made as follows: — 

Cut some thin rounds of bread the size of a five- 
shilling piece. (Avoid bread with holes in it.) Fry 
these a light golden brown. * (See No. 7.) Drain 
them on blotting-paper, and spread each round 
with a thin layer of Bechamel sauce (See 
Bechamel) nearly set. Cover this over with a 
thin slice of the white meat of a cold fowl, or 
turkey, or pheasant. Sprinkle with a very little 
pepper and salt, and cover over with another 
round of fried bread, also spread with a very thin 
layer of Bechamel sauce. Pile up on a napkin in 
a pyramid shape, and ornament with parsley. It 



318 CHOICE DISHES 

is needless to say that these sandwiches differ from 
the' ordinary Mugby Junction sandwich. Lobster 
sandwiches can be made by putting the pounded 
flesh of lobster similar to that made in makmg 
lobster cutlets, only without any onion, between 
slices of fried bread. Also salmon sandwiches, 
from fresh salmon or tinned salmon. (See Salmon, 
Tinned.) 

Anchovy sandwiches can be made as follows. 
Chop up into little pieces, but not too small, some 
filleted anchovies ; also chop up some hard-boiled 
eggs and mix together, so that there is twice the 
quantity of egg to anchovy, and lay these between 
fried bread spread over with mayonnaise sauce. 
Add also a little cayenne pepper. 

Of course all these sandwiches can be made by 
using ordinary thin bread not fried, but frying the 
bread, though troublesome, greatly improves both 
the flavour and appearance of the sandwiches. If 
the bread in frying is cut into pieces two inches 
square, instead of into rounds, it greatly saves any 
waste. For plain bread, use a square tin loaf. 
After making the sand^viches, cut them up into 
small squares or triangles, and trim the edges 
neatly, cutting- off the*crust. 

Ordinary sandwiches from beef, mutton, ham, 
tongue, &c., are made by putting thin slices of 
meat between thin slices of bread and butter, and 
adding pepper and salt, and sometimes mustard. 
The thinner the sandwich is cut the better will it 
be. Egg sandwiches are made by putting thin 
slices of hard-boiled egg between thin bread and 
butter, and adding mustard and cress. (See Eg'^ 
Sandwiches.) 



AT SMALL COST. 319 

Sandwiches well made are admirably adapted 
for evening parties, and are more worth troubling 
about than a quantity of sweets that few care to 
eat. 

Suppose now you have a few dishes of sand- 
wiches piled up into pyramid form on a side-table, 
ornament as follows ; which will also serve the 
purpose of describing what they are : — 

We will suppose we have some anchovy sand- 
wiches, some lobster, salmon, egg, tomato and 
chicken. 

Pile up the sandwiches high, leaving a margin 
round the base; cover this with bright green 
parsley. Then round the base of the anchovy 
salad, place in a slanting direction, about three or 
four inches apart, some fresh anchovies, whole, but 
washed. Choose some with bright silver scales. 

Around the lobster salad put, the same distance 
apart, some small red crayfish. Round the salmon 
put a few slices of fresh salmon, or, if tinned, 
choose the most solid pieces. Sprinkle these 
with whole coral, boiled, of course, a bright 
red. Around the egg sandwiches strew mustard 
and cress instead of parsley, and lay rings 
of hard-boiled eggs cut out of the middle of 
each egg; the rest can be used for making the 
sandwiches. 

Round the chicken sandwiches place the wings 
of the fowls cut off short, i.e., vevy little of the 
breast meat, but chiefly the bones ; glaze these 
bones, which will not be eaten, a rich brown. 
Soy will do for this purpose. In cutting the 
wings off, get the piece of skin that would cover 
the white meat to join on to the bone ; glaze this 



320 CHOICE DISHES 

skin, it will give the appearance of a whole wing. 
Around the tomato sandwiches place some small 
bright red tomatoes, on the parsley. (See Tomato 
Sandwiches.) 

If you wish to please your guests, a few well- 
filled dishes of this sort, and some good bitter ale, 
will be more appreciated than a quantity of second 
or third-rate sweets and bad champagne. 

Sardines. — Sardines are generally served in their 
tins. Lemon-juice and cayenne pepper are a great 
improvement. 

Sardines, Curried. — Sardines are very nice 
curried. Proceed exactly as in currying pilchards. 
(See Pilchards.) 

Sausages. (See Pork and Beef.) 

Sausages, Beef. (See Sausages.) 

Sausages, To Cook. (See Sausages.) 

Sausages, to Cook. — Sausages are always best 
fried. When they have skins on them, prick the 
skin with a fork to prevent them bursting. 
Sausages, especially pork, should always be well 
cooked, and should never look red in the middle 
when cut. They are best cooked very slowly, but 
should be browned all over outside at the finish. 

Savoury Patties. (See Patties.) 

Savoys. (See Cabbage.) 

Scallops. — Scallops are best scalloped (hence the 
term). Wash them thoroughly, as they are a])t to 
be gritty. Let them simmer very gently in a little 
milk. Take them out and thicken the milk with 



AT SMALL COST. 321 

a little white thickening (see No. 12), or butter 
and flour. Make it as thick as double cream. 
Put them back in their deep shells, two scallops in 
each shell, with some of the thickened milk, to 
which must be added a teaspoonful of anchovy 
sauce, say, for twelve scallops, half a saltspoonful 
of cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg and the 
juice of a quarter of a lemon. Mix in a few bread 
crumbs, and cut up some butter into little pieces. 
Shake some bread crumbs over the top, and lay 
some little pieces of butter 'on them, and bake in 
the oven till the crumbs are brown. If they don't 
brown quickly, a red-hot shovel will assist. You 
must put plenty of little pieces of butter on the 
top of the bread crumbs, or you can nearly oil 
some butter and pour it over the crumbs. Scallops 
should never be dry. 

Scotch Broth. — Get some No. 3 Stock (see 
No. 10) that has had no extract of meat put to it, 
or, better still, some No. 1 Stock (see No. 10), also 
without extract of meat. Cut up some carrot, 
turnip, and celery small, and boil this in the stock 
till tender, then add some pearl barley that has 
been boiled till it is tender, and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Boil the stock, and have ready 
some trimmed cutlets off the neck of mutton, cut 
very thin. When the soup is boiling throw in the 
cutlets, and take the soup off the fire on to the 
side. The cold meat will take it off the boil. Let 
it stand for five or ten minutes, and then pour it 
into a tureen. If the soup boils after the meat is 
thrown in, it will be hard. If the cutlets are cut 
thin, five minutes in this hot soup will cook them. 
V 



322 CHOICE DISHES 

Scotch Woodcock. — Hard-boil two eggs, take 
off the outer shells, and cut them up fine with 
a knife and fork in a basin with a couple of ounces 
of butter, add a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce 
(grocers'), and half a saltspoonful of cayenne 
pepper ; spread the mixture on a large square of 
hot buttered toast, make the whole hot in the 
oven, and serve. Don't forget to shake the bottle 
first before pouring out the ancho\y sauce. 

Another method^ and perhaps a more delicate 
method, is to make a rich anchovy toast with 
anchovies pounded with butter and spread over 
the toast thick and hot. Make a light omelet Avith 
three eggs and two ounces of butter (see Omelet), 
beating the whites separately ; as soon as it sets 
pour the light omelet over the anchovy toast. 
Take care the toast is hot. 

The best way to make Scotch Woodcock is to 
prepare a rich hot anchovy toast as above, and 
cover it wdth whipped cream. 

Sea Bream. (See Bream.) 

Sea-kale. — The Sea-kale should be young and 
very fresh, or it is worthless. Wash it very care- 
fully and boil in the ordinary way. (See No. 9.) 
Time, about twenty minutes. Serve on toast, keep 
the heads all one w^ay on the toast. Butter sauce 
or white sauce should be served wdth sea-kale. 

Semolina Pudding. — Boil a quart of milk; 
sweeten it, and flavour it with lemon by rubbing 
some of the lumps of sugar on the outside of the 
rind of a lemon ; add three tablespoonfuls of semo- 
lina. Stir till thick. Add one or more effffs 



AT SMALL COST. 323 

according as it is wished rich. Pour into a pie- 
dish, and bake for about three quarters of an hour. 
A little nutmeg can be gi'ated over the top. 
This pudding can also be made by using a quart 
of water in Avhich a tablespoonful of Swiss milk 
has been dissolved, instead of milk. In this case, 
less sugar will be required. 

Shad. — Shad is a sea-fish very common on the 
continent, especially in Belgium, where, under the 
heading of " Alose " in bills of fare, it has often 
puzzled strangers, as shad is seldom met with in 
England. It is a cheap fish, exceedingly nice, 
resemblinof herrinfjc in flavour. AVhen small, it is 
best grilled ; when large — i. e., over two pounds in 
weight — it is best baked. Serve mustard sauce 
with it. 

It can also, especially when large, be stufied with 
veal stuffing. (See Veal Stuffing.) 

Sheep's Brains. — To be cooked in exactly the 
same way as pig's brains. (See Pig's Brains.) 

Sheep's Head, Baked.— Split open the head, and 
remove the tongue and brains. It is generally 
best to soak the head after this in a little Avarm salt 
and water. Tie the two halves together, and bake 
the head in the oven for about a couple of hours, 
basting with butter or dripping. Potatoes, cut up, 
can be baked with it. Boil the tongue separatel}-, 
and make some brain sauce by boiling the brains, 
then mashing them up with a teaspoonful of mixed 
sweet herbs (see Herbs) and some butter, pepper 
and salt. Stir these brains over a gentle fire for 
some little time in a stewpan. Place the brains 



324 CHOICE DISHES 

roiuid the tongue, and serve in a separate dish from 
the head. 

Sheep's Head Soup. — Split open a sheep's head, 
and remove the tongue and brains, which will make 
a separate dish. (See Sheep's Head.) Stew the 
head in three pints of No. 3 Stock (see No. 10), 
and boil with it a tablespoonful of pearl barley, 
thoroughly Avashed. Add extract of meat. Season 
with pepper and salt. When the head has been 
stewed for a couple of hours, the meat will easily 
come off the bone. The bones, of course, should be 
removed, and the meat served in the soup. Rice 
may be substituted for barley, and a little chopped 
])arsley can be added to the soup, if liked. The 
soup may also be slightly thickened with corn-flour. 
Carrot and turnip may also be served in the soup, 
cut up into dice. 

Sheep's Hearts. (See Hearts.) 
Sheep's Kidneys. (See Kidneys.) 
Sheep's Tongues. (See Tongues.) 
Sheep's Trotters. (See Trotters. ) 

Shrimps. — Shrimps must be boiled alive, and 
are not worth eating unless perfectly fresh. The 
brown shrimp is superior to the red or pink. Throw 
them into boiling salt and water; time, about 5 
minutes. 

Shrimp Salad. (See Salad.) 

Shrimps, Curried. — Pick a quart of shrimps. 
This will make about half a pint. Put the heads 
in a saucepan with a couple of tablespoonfuls of 
water, and crush the heads with a spoon, pressing 



AT SMALL COST. o25 

out the goodness. Strain the liquor off; see that 
it is not too salt. Add to it a little curry sauce 
(see Curry Sauce) ; warm up the shrimps in it, 
and serve in a border of rice. 

Shrimp Sauce. — Pick a quart of shrimps, as 
above, pounding the heads. Add the liquor to 
rather more than half a pint of butter sauce. 
Stir in, if possible, half a teaspoonful of lobster 
butter. (See Lobster Butter.) Add a saltspoon- 
ful of anchovy sauce, half a teaspoonful of lemon- 
juice, and make the shrimps liot rn the sauce. 

N.B. — Sometimes the shrimps are sprinkled 
with salt to keep them fresh. In this case, pound- 
ing the heads to get out the flavour is of no use, as 
the liquor will be too salt for use. 

Shrimps, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Sirloin of Beef. (See Beef.) 

Skate. — Boil two pounds of skate in the ordinary 
way (see No. 1), adding a teaspoonful of vinegar 
to the water, When done, drain it, and serve with 
black butter. The liver should be boiled separately 
for four or five minutes, and served with it. Tlie 
liver is an important part. Time to boil the 
fish, about twenty minutes. Always serve black 
butter with boiled skate. (See Butter, Black.) 

Smelts. — Clean the smelts by taking out the 
inside, but do not wash them. Wipe them clean, 
egg-and-bread-crumb them (see No. 20), and fry 
them (see Xo. 6), Smelts can be fried plain, 
simply being floured. Fried smelts make a nice 
garnish to large boiled fish, such as turbot and cod. 



326 CHOICE DISHES 

Snipe, Roast. — There is an old proverb about 
snipe — that the best way to cook it is to let the 
bu'd fly througli the kitchen. Like a woodcock, it 
is absolutely cruel to overcook it. Pluck the bird, 
singe it and truss it, but don't draw it. Roast it 
before a brisk fire, or in a fierce oven, for about 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve on hot toast. 
Baste with butter. The toast must catch any of 
the trail, and will soak up the butter used for 
basting. Serve very hot. The bird should look 
raw inside. In fact, a snipe is done as soon as it is 
really hot through. 

Snipe Pudding". (See Pudding.) 

Snipes, To Truss.- -Handle the birds lightly, 
pluck them carefull}^, so as not to tear the skin, 
and pick them entirely, neck and head. Do not 
draw them, but wipe them with a clean, soft cloth. 
Twist the joints of the legs to bring the feet back 
upon the thighs, and press the legs close to the 
body. Turn the head under the wing, and pass 
the bill through the thighs and body. Tie a string 
round the legs and breast to keep the legs straight, 
and pass it also round the head and the tip of the 
bill. Hang the birds to the spit with the feet 
downwards. 

Sole (a la Maitre d'Hotel). — Fillet the soles, 
and dip the pieces in some oil, seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Poll up the pieces, and grill them 
over a clear fire. They will be done as soon as 
they cease to be trans2:)arent. Stew the bones and 
fins in a little water, in which has been placed a 
small slice of onion and a sprig of parsley. Stew 
this down to half a pint, strain it oft', thicken it 



AT SMALL COST. 327 

with some white thickening (see No. 12), add a 
little more butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
and two teaspoonfuls of lemon-juice. The rolled 
fillets of sole can be placed on end in a vegetable 
or silver dish ; the sance, made thick, can be jDOured 
over them. Then ornament as follows : — Cut 
little pieces of red chili and green gherkin, the 
size of a threepenny-piece ; place a piece, alter- 
nately red and green, on each piece of sole. (See 
Maitre d'Hotel Sauce.) 

Sole au gratin. — Chop up one or two good- 
sized mushrooms, or a small tin of mushrooms, 
with a small piece of onion the size of the top 
of the thumb, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
a piece of lemon-peel the size of the thumb-nail ; 
add pepper and salt. Fry these with two ounces of 
butter in a frying-pan for four or five minutes. 
Egg-and-bread-crumb a sole, place it in a baking- 
dish, and pour this mixture over it. Bake in the 
oven for ten minutes. Then turn the fish over, 
shake a few very dry bread crumbs over it, add a 
teaspoonful of sherry to the sauce, and a tablespoon- 
ful of good gravy. Shake a little grated cheese 
over the top. Bake till it is a light browai colour 
on the top. Serve the sole in the tin. 

The best tin for Sole au gratin is a long oval one, 
not much bio^orer than the sole itself. 

A cheap way of making Sole au gratin is to egg- 
and-bread-crumb the sole, and bake it in the oven 
with some butter, chopped onion, parsley, and 
lemon-peel ; pepper and salt as above, baste the 
fish. Add a teaspoonful of wine and a very little 
gloated cheese. 



328 ■ CHOICE DISHES 

Sole, Fried. — Dry and flour the fish, egg-and- 
bread-crumb it (see No. 20), and fry (see No. 6). 
The sole can be fried plain, without egg and bread 
crumbs. When very small, this is best. ^erve 
butter sauce or anchovy sauce ^vith fried sole. Orna- 
ment with parsley and cut lemon. (See No. 29.) 
Sole is best grilled plain. (See No. 5.) 

Sole, To Fillet. — Soles are best filleted at home, 
for the sake of the bones and fins, which make 
such excellent sauce. To fillet a sole : cut a deep 
cut from head to tail down the side of the back- 
bone, touching the backbone. Keep cutting with 
a knife the flesh away from the ribs, keeping the 
edge of the knife touching the ribs. When you 
cut the fla]) of flesh so far down that you meet 
the points of the little fin-bones, cut the flap off! 
One sole will make four fillets. The knife had 
better not be too sharp, or it will cut into the 
bones. It is best to cut off" the head and tail first. 
The head and tail, bones and fins, will all stew 
down to make excellent sauce. 

Soup Maigre. — (See Maigre Soup.) Soup Mai- 
gre is composed of vegetables. Take some, if not 
all of the following : a small head of celery, a 
turnip, a carrot, tw^o large onions, fried in butter, 
two parsnips. Boil them till they are perfectly 
tender in a quart or more of water, and rub them 
through a wire sieve. Thicken wdth some cold 
boiled potatoes, and a very little young cabbage 
and lettuce, and boil them in the soup till tender. 
Then chop and add a handful of sorrel. This last 
is almost essential to get soup maigre. The con- 
sistency should be that of pea soup. Dried peas 



AT SMALL COST. 329 

or lentils can be used as well, but must be sent 
through a sieve. Onions, celery, potato, and sorrel 
make a very good soup maigre. Season with pepper 
and salt. When soup maigre is wanted very good, 
yolks of eggs can be added in any quantity. The 
soup must not boil after the eggs are added. 

Soy is made from a Japanese bean. It is useful 
to assist in making fish sauce, especially for fresh- 
water fish ; it also helps to colour, and can be used 
for glazing veal. 

Spanish Onions. (See Onions.) 

Spinach. — Spinach requires a good deal of wash- 
ing. Let it swim in a pailful of water, then lift it 
out and the dirt will sink. Get a fresh pailful and 
repeat the washing. Pick away the stalks, and 
boil the spinach for ten or fifteen minutes. Drain 
it thoroughly, pressing it hard, and cut it up very 
fine with a knife and fork, or rub it through a wire 
sieve. Add a small piece of butter and some 
pepper and salt ; make it hot in a small stewpan. 
Serve with hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, or with 
poached eggs. Some cooks boil spinach in as little 
water as possible ; some steam it. I do not think 
there is any perceptible difference in the flavour 
afterwards, whichever method is pursued. It is 
doubtful whether there is much flavour in the green 
colouring that comes away. 

Sprats. — Sprats are a cheap and delicious fish. 
They are best grilled. The greatest drawback to 
sprats is that they make the whole house smell. 
A vdre shut-up gridiron is best for sprats. Flour 
them and gi-ill them ; when done on one side, 



330 CHOICE DISHES 

turn the gridiron over and do the other side. 
Bread and butter shoukl be served with sprats, 
and some persons like lemon-juice and cayenne 
pepper with them. 

Sprats are best cooked in relays — a few sent up 
hot and a few more five or ten minutes afterwards. 
As in frying, shut the kitchen door. Time to 
grill, two or three minutes, according to the fire. 

Sprats, Pickled. — Sprats are very nice pickled. 
Bake them in the oven in a pickle composed of 
two-thirds water, one-third vinegar ; add to a quart 
a teaspoonful of peppercorns and three or four bay- 
leaves. Let them get cold. This is a nice cheap 
breakfast dish. Indeed, many prefer it to pickled 
salmon. The sprats can be taken out of the pickle 
and eaten with a little oil and pejDper. 

Spring Soup. — Cut up into small slices some 
young spring carrots, turnips, part of a small head 
of celery, a few spring onions trimmed from the 
gi'een stalk; a few little pieces like a small 
bouquet of the white part of a cauliflower ; some 
cut up leaves of the white part of a cabbage 
lettuce, a small handful of sorrel-leaves, a few 
leaves of fresh tarragon. Throw these into boiling 
water, and let them boil for five minutes. Then 
strain them ofi*, and boil them for about half an 
hour in some clear bright stock No. 1 (see No. 10). 
About a quarter of an hour before serving the soup, 
and while the soup is boiling, throw in a large spoon- 
ful of freshly -gathered and shelled young green peas, 
and a few young asparagus tops. Flavour the soup 
with pepper and salt, after the vegetables have 
been boiled. 



AT SMALL COST. 331 

N.B. — Of course all these vegetables are rarely 
used at once, though to make a perfect soup they 
should be. Where there is a garden, this soup is 
most delicious, as the vegetables need not be 
gathered till wanted. 

The essentials for appearance are cut up red 
carrot, white turnips, and a few green peas. 

Spring soup can be imitated all the year round 
by w^arming up the contents, or part of the con- 
tents, of a tin of macedoines (mixed vegetables) 
in some Stock No. 1 or No. 2. (See No. 10). A 
few fresh tarragon-leaves are a very great improve- 
ment. 

Steak. (See Beef.) 

Stew, To. (See No. 2.) 

Stock. (See No. 10.) 

Strawberry Ice. (See Ice, from Fruit.) 

Strawberry Jam. (See Jam.) 

Strawberry Water Ice. (See Ice Water 
Fruit.) 

Sturgeon. — Sturgeon is a very large fish, of 
rather yellow appearance, and is sometimes sold 
cheap, at sixpence (and even less) a pound. It is a 
most substantial fish, very satisfying, and very like 
veal. Very few persons would know the difference 
between sturgeon and veal cutlet if cooked as 
follows : — 

Take a slice of sturgeon an inch thick, weighing, 
say, three pounds. Take a bottle of dried mixed 
herbs (see Herbs), and pour some out into a sieve. 
Shake the sieve over the raw fish, first one side 
and then the other, and dry it, using the sifted 



332 CHOICE DISHES 

herbs instead of flour. When quite dry, egg-and- 
bread-crumb it (see No. 20), and fry it till it is 
nicely browned. (See No. 6.) Like veal, it wants 
a lot of cooking. Next, make a strong fish stock 
with, say, the bones of a sole that has been filleted, 
adding some parsley and a couple of slices of onion. 
Boil this till there is barely more than half a pint. 
Strain off the liquor, and add to it a small tin of 
mushrooms, liquor and all. Thicken this with 
some brown thickening (see No. 12), till it is as 
thick as double cream. Add a dessertspoonful of 
ketchup, and another not quite full of soy. Pour 
the sauce round, not over, the fish. Ornament as 
follows : Pick out five or six of the largest mush- 
rooms, cut ofl:' the round tops, glaze them with a 
little soy, and place them on the cutlet, alternately 
with some small crayfish. This sauce, wdiich does 
not contain any meat, has the appearance of rich 
brown gravy. The fish tastes like veal, the more 
so owing to the herbs, which are the same as those 
used for veal stuffing. 

Without the mushrooms and crayfish, the latter 
being purely for ornament, it is really a very cheap 
dish if the fish is cheap. 

Suet Dumplings. (See Paste, Suet, for 
Puddings.) — Suet dumplings are really suet paste, 
made plain or rich, rolled into balls, and boiled 
in a cloth, or they may be thrown in without a 
cloth w^hen very small. The paste mixture, how^- 
ever, in the case of dumplings may be varied by 
adding a few bread crumbs, which makes tile 
dumplings lighter. Eggs can be added, and also 
milk. 



AT SMALL COST. 333 

The follcrsving makes very good dumplings : — 
six ounces of suet, six ounces of flour, two ounces 
of bread crumbs, two eggs, a pinch of salt, and 
sufiicient milk to moisten. The eggs should be 
well beaten up in the milk, and the suet well 
rubbed into the flour. The whole should be 
thoroughly mixed. Flour the cloth, tie it tight, 
but leave plenty of room for the dumplings to 
swell. The above mixture would make eight 
dumplings. Plunge them into boiling water, and 
boil for three quarters of an hour. 

Suet Pudding. — Proceed exactly as in making 
suet dumplings, only instead of rolling the mixture 
into several balls, roll it into one. Plain suet 
pudding is a ball of suet paste (see Paste, Suet, 
FOR Puddings) tied up in a floured cloth and 
boiled. A large suet pudding, plain, will take from 
two to three hours to boil. 

A great variety of puddings can be made by 
adding to an ordinary suet pudding sugar and 
gi'ated lemon-peel, ginger, lemon-juice, cinnamon, 
raisins, etc. In this case a sweet sauce can be 
served with it. (See Sweet Sauce.) 

Sweetbreads, Fried or Baked. — Calfs sweet- 
breads are by far the l)est, but unfortunately are 
often very expensive. All sweetbreads, whether 
calfs, lamb's, sheep's, pig's, ttc, should be treated 
as follows : — Parboil them for fiA'e or ten minutes 
according to their size, take them out, and throw 
them into cold water, and let them get quite cold. 
-Take them out of the water, and carefully trim 
them from skin and flap. The drawback to sweet- 
breads is, that mixed with the delicious soft white 



334 CHOICE DISHES 

meat is too often found pieces of skin, which are 
exceedingly unpleasant in the mouth, causing real 
inconvenience to persons with delicate stomachs; 
therefore, peel the sweetbreads, especially small 
ones, and remove these impediments. Next, dry, 
flour, egg-and-bread-crumb (see ISTo. 20) the sweet- 
breads, and fry them a nice bright golden colour. 
(See No. 6.) Serve with some rich brown gravy. 

The sweetbread, especially if large, can be baked 
in the oven. Do not egg-and-bread-crumb it, but 
cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, and baste it. 
AVhen done, take it out, drain it from its fat, and 
serve with some rather thick Bechamel sauce ; orna- 
ment with fried bread (see No. 7) and chopped 
parsley sprinkled over the sweetbread. 

Sweetbreads, Curried. — Egg-and-bread-crumb 
the sweetbreads. (See Sweetbreads, Fried.) Fry 
them as directed, and pour some curry sauce round 
them, not over them. (See Curry Sauce.) 

Sweetbreads, Various ways of Cooking. — 
There are a very great number of ways of cooking 
sweetbreads, but they chiefly depend upon the 
sauce served with them. Sweetbreads are very 
useful to mix with other things as well as for 
making the insides of rich pies. For instance, 
boiled sweetbreads cut up with small button mush- 
rooms, slices of red tongue, the white meat of 
fowl cut up, calf's brains, lean red ham, or some 
small black truflies, all stewed in some really good 
Bechamel sauce, make a most delicious dish. 

Sweetbreads when baked are often larded, i.e., 
stuck over with pieces of bacon fat inserted a little 
way into the meat. Sweetbreads, fried or baked, 



AT SMALL COST. 335 

are also very nice with tomato sauce, mushroom 
sauce, and can also be served with spinach. 

Sweet Herbs. (See Herbs.) 

Sweet Sauce. — Sweet sauce for puddings, (fcc, 
can be made in a variety of different ways, and 
the flavour can be varied by adding wines or 
liqueurs. 

1st. Sweet sauce plain. Thicken a little water 
or milk with butter and flour, or white thickening 
or corn-flour, dissolve in it some sugar to taste. To 
this can be added, if wished, some sherry or 
brandy, or, still better, rum. Indeed, of all spirits, 
rum is the best for sweet sauce. 

Another way is to make first some rich butter 
sauce (see Butter Sauce), adcl to this sugar and 
Avine, or spirits or liqueur. 

Sometimes it is wished to have the sweet sauce 
pink; in this case a little cochineal is all that 
is required. A very pretty sauce can be made as 
follows : — Thicken a little water well sweetened 
with some arrowroot. Do not make it too thick, 
add some brandy or rum, and some cochineal. 
This sauce will be a clear bright pink or red. The 
flavour of it can be varied by adding a few drops 
of essence of almonds, or a teaspoonful of essence 
of vanilla. 

A very rich but expensive sauce can be made by 
beating up three eggs. Then put a small enamelled 
saucepan on the fire with a quarter of a pint of 
sherry, and plenty of lump sugar. Melt the sugar, 
make the sherry hot, add it to tlie eggs, and whip 
the whole to a foam in a basin placed in some hot 
water. Pour this foaming sauce over some light 



336 CHOICE DISHES 

pudding — say, cabinet — grate a little nutmeg over 
the top. Kaisin or cowslip wine will also do to 
make this sauce. 

Swiss Milk. (See Milk.) 

Tapioca for Invalids. — Wash the tapioca well 
in two waters, then soak a tablespoonful in one 
j^int of milk for an hour. Put it on to boil in a 
saucepan, and let it simmer gently till it is quite 
clear. Stir it occasionally to prevent its getting 
lumpy. Water can be used instead of milk. 
SAveeten it with lump sugar according to taste. 
It can be flavoured by rubbing the sugar on lemon- 
peel, or a little brandy or wine can be added. 

Beef-tea or good strong veal stock can be 
thickened with tapioca ; this forms a very nourish- 
ing food for invalids. 

Tapioca Pudding, Baked. — Wash the tapioca, 
and allow for puddings as a rule about four table- 
spoonfuls of tapioca to a quart of milk or water. 
Boil the tapioca in a saucepan, sweeten it, pour it 
into a pie-dish, add a little butter, about an ounce, 
and, if the pudding is wished rich, one, two, or 
three eggs can be beaten up and put to it. Grate 
a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in the oven 
for an hour. 

The pudding can be flavoured w^ith lemon-peel by 
rubbing the sugar on the rind, or with powdered 
cinnamon, nutmeg, essence of almonds, vanilla, &c. 

Tapioca Pudding, Boiled. — Proceed as for 
baked pudding, only pour it into a mould and 
either boil or steam it ; turn it out and serve with 
Gome sweet sauce. (See Sweet Sauce.) Plavour 
as before. 



AT SMALL COST. 337 

Tapioca Soup. — Soak a tablespoonful of tapioca 
after washing it for half an hour ; then boil it in a 
quart of No. 1 or iSTo. 2 Stock. (See No. 10.) 
Time, about half an hour. The saucepan can be 
rubbed with a bead of garlic, if the flavour is not 
objected to. 

Tarragon. — Tarragon is a herb easy to grow in 
any garden. It is very valuable for flavouring 
fish sauces, and also for improving the flavour of 
salads. One or two leaves only, chopped with a 
little parsley, give a salad made of lettuce (see 
Salad) a high-class tone. Tarragon-leaves are 
sometimes laid in strips on the breasts of roast 
fowl just before sending to table hot. It is a 
powerful herb, and a little goes a great way. 

A few leaves cut into threads are a great improve- 
ment to spring soup. 

Tartar Sauce. — Make some mayonnaise sauce 
as thick as butter. (See Mayonnaise Sauce.) 
Add to, say, a quarter of a pint of sauce, a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, which has, if possible, 
two tarragon-leaves chopped with it, a piece of 
onion or shalot the size of the top of the little 
finger. Or the chopping-board on which the parsley 
w^as chopped can be first rubbed with a bead of 
garlic or a slice of onion. Also add a teaspoonful 
of made French mustard — English mustard will 
do, but it is not so good — and a saltspoonful of 
anchovy sauce. 

Tartar sauce should be served with grilled 
salmon, grilled trout, &c. 

Tartlets. (See Cheesecakes.) 

Teal, Roast. — Teal, like snipe, should be sent to 
w 



338 CHOICE DISHES 

table underdone. They slioiild be plucked and 
drawn, roasted before a quick fire, or in a fierce 
oven, basted with butter, and sent to table directly 
they are cooked. When teal follow a joint the 
cook should be warned not to put them down for 
some time after the joint is served ; ten minutes will 
almost cook them. Send cut lemon and cayenne 
pepper to table w^ith them. A little good brown 
gravy should also be served with them in a tureen. 

Tench. — Tench requires very careful cleaning, 
as it has a tendency to be muddy. The best way 
to cook it is to bake it in the oven, and baste with 
a little butter and a glass of French white wine, or, 
if this cannot be obtained, some lemon-juice and 
butter. When it is done, add a little gravy to the 
butter and lemon-juice. Thicken it with a little 
corn-flour (see No. 13), and a teaspoonful of soy 
and a little cayenne 2:)epper. When fresh- water 
fish like tench are plentiful, and caught jDrobably 
for nothing, it is well worth ^vliile to have a bottle 
of cheap French white wine to cook them in. 
Either stewed or baked, a very little makes them 
palatable. (See Fish, Fresh-water.) 

Tench can also be grilled. Baste with a little 
butter Avhile grilling, and take care the fish does 
not stick to the gridiron, which should be rubbed 
with a piece of fat. Flour the fish first. Serve 
with Tartar sauce or cut lemon and cayenne. 
Thickening white and brown, (See No. 12.) 

Thornback. — The fins of the Thornback, which 
is a fish of the Ray species, can be boiled like skate 
and served with black butter. It is a coarse cheap 
fish, but not often sold. 



AT SMALL COST. 339 

Tipsy Bread. — This is an imitation of Tipsy 
Cake. Cut some bread in slices, smear both sides 
over Avitli jam, pile them up on a dish, moisten 
I them with raisin or cowslip wine, and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Pour a cheap custard OA'er 
the whole, and stick it over with blanched almonds 
(see Almonds, To Blaxch.) cut into thin strips. 

Tipsy Cake. — Take a stale sponge cake, cut it 
into four or five slices parallel with the bottom, so 
that the slices can be laid one on the other, and the 
shape of the cake can be preserved. Spread a thin 
layer of jam (raspberry or strawberry is best). Lay 
these slices of cake on the top of one another care- 
fully. Next take, if the cake is a large one, half a 
pint of sherry, or raisin wine or cowslip wine ; 
sweeten this with some sugar, and soak the cake 
thoroughly. Take a spoon^ and ladle the wine that 
runs into the dish over the cake again. When the 
cake has absorbed all the wine, and the dish is 
almost dry, pour over the cake a rich custard 
rather thick. (See Custard.) Custard can always 
be made thicker by using more egg or less milk, 
and by stirring it for a longer time in the boiling 
water. Ornament the cake by sticking it all over 
like a hedo:ehoo: with blanched almonds cut into 
thin strips. (See Almonds, To Blanch.) A tipsy 
cake can also be ornamented with preserved 
cherries and angelica, the latter cut into little 
rounds the same size round as the cherries, which 
can be pressed rather flat ; these can be placed in 
the custard on the cake, in rings alternate green 
and red. 

Toad in the Hole.— Make a batter with some 



840 CHOICE DISHES 

milk, flour, and one or two eggs, as thick as double 
cream. (See Batter.) Put two pounds of beef- 
steak, cut into pieces about three inches long and 
one and a half wide, and an inch thick, into a hot 
buttered baking-dish ; season the pieces of meat 
with a little salt and pepper sprinked over them. 
Pour the batter into the hot dish, and bake it in the 
oven for one hour and a half. 

The remains of cold meat can be cooked this way. 
Unless the cold meat is underdone, and contains 
red juicy gravy in it, it will be very insipid. 

Eggs are not absolutely essential to the batter, 
but are of course a very great improvement. 

Toast, Anchovy. (See Anchovy.) 

Toast and Water.— Take a good-sized piece of 
stale crust of bread. Toast it a dark brown, as 
dark as possible without burning it black. Pour 
a quart of boiling water over, let it get quite cold, 
then strain it into a jug through a piece of muslin. 

Toast, Hot Buttered. — Hot buttered toast is a 
somewhat expensive luxury when made properly. 
Rather stale bread is best. The bread should be 
cut into slices about one- third of an inch thick. 
It should be toasted quickly in front of a clear 
fire a nice golden brown on both sides. It should 
be quickly buttered on both sides, and placed in a 
hot dish. Another piece should then be toasted 
and buttered, and placed on the top. When four 
or five slices have been piled up, cut through the 
heap, and cut the toast into strips. The toast 
should be perfectly saturated with pure country 
butter, and served so hot that it almost burns the 
mouth. 



AT SMALL COST. 341 

Tomato Sauce.^This sauce is generally sold in 
bottles. It is best to taste this pulp before using 
it. As the pulp varies in flavour, it is impossible 
to give any one receipt that will suit all kinds. 
Suppose, however, the pulp seems like pure tomato 
pulp, and there is no other flavour, then take a 
very little white sauce or gravy — say, a couple of 
tablespoonfuls^ — boil in this a good-sized pinch 
of thyme for a few minutes, as w^ell as a slice of 
onion, and a pinch of cayenne, and a bay-leaf. 
Strain this into a small stewpan, and add double 
the quantity of tomato pulp from the bottles. 
Make hot, and serve. 

"When the tomato pulp in bottles is adulterated 
with too much carrot, good sauce is impossible. 

If possible, boil in the tw^o tablespoonfuls of 
white sauce, or stock thickened with white thicken- 
ing, a small piece of raw ham — a bacon bone for 
instance — this brings out the flavour. 

Tomato Sauce from Fresh Tomatoes. — Take 
half a dozen ripe tomatoes, cut off" the tops, and 
squeeze out the pips ; place the tomatoes in a stew- 
pan with a small slice of onion, a bay-leaf, a good 
pinch of thyme, and a little butter. Let the whole 
stew for fifteen minutes. The onion and thyme 
should be softened in the butter but not browned ; 
then rub all through a wire sieve, add this to half 
its quantity of white sauce, or stock, thickened with 
white thickening. (See No. 12.) A slice of ham, 
or a lean bacon bone is an improvement. Flavour 
with cayenne pepper. This sauce will require a 
little skimming. 

Tomato Sauce from Tinned Tomatoes.— To- 



342 CHOICE DISHES 

matoes are now sold wliole in tins. These make 
excellent sauce. Cut open tlie tin, strain off the 
liquid, and place the tomatoes in a stewpan, and 
proceed exactly as with fresh tomatoes. 

The liquid strained off from the tin should not 
be wasted : it has a very strong tomato flavour, and 
if added to some good gravy, and a little extra 
extract of meat be put to it, it Avill make an 
excellent gravy for roast fowls, &c. 

In rubbing the tinned tomatoes through a wire 
sieve the pulp will soon go through, and the pips, 
which are very hard, will remain behind. 

Tomato Salad. — Ripe, round, red tomatoes make 
a delicious salad. The best tomatoes are the small, 
round, smooth ones perfectly red all over. Cut 
these in slices. Take out the core and pips. 
Place them in a salad bowl rubbed with a bead of 
garlic, and dress them in the ordinary way with oil 
and vinegar. (See Salad.) Potatoes cut in slices, 
and a little chopped parsley, can be mixed with 
them. 

Tomato Sandwiches. — Tomato sandwiches are 
most refreshing in hot weather, especially when 
kept in ice. Cut some thin slices of bread and 
butter from a tinned loaf. Sprinkle these with 
mustard and cress. Cut some thin slices of tomato, 
cutting the tomato parallel with the core to avoid 
having rings from the core dropping out. Mix 
these slices lightly in some oil and vinegar and 
pepper and salt salad dressing (see Salad), lay 
these slices on the bread, and cover over with the 
other slice of bread and butter sprinkled with 
mustard and cress. Cut these slices into squares 



AT SMALL COST. 343 

or triangles, witli a very sharp knife, and pile them 
up on a dish. Place a border of parsley round the 
base, and ornament with some small, bright, round, 
red tomatoes. 

These are an excellent refreshment for garden 
parties in hot weather. Their chief beauty is being 
cool. An excellent ' ' ice-house " can be made for them 
as follows : — Put a little rough ice on the grass, 
cover it over with a large dish turned upside down ; 
pile the tomato sandwiches on the dish. Cover 
over with an ordinary metal dish-cover — a common 
kitchen one will do — take a cloth, and push it 
through the handle. Take two lumps of ice of 
moderate size, tie them up in the cloth, so that one 
lump touches the dish-cover on either side. Of 
course, when the four ends of the cloth are tied 
together the ice cannot fall out, but will rest in the 
cloth against the sides of the cover. The sand- 
wiches after being in this cold " ice-house " for 
an hour are delicious. The ice underneath soon 
melts. 

Tomatoes, Grilled. — Tomatoes should be grilled 
whole, and not cut open. Grill over a clear fire, 
and moisten occasionally with a very little dripping 
or butter. Grilled tomatoes are nice served with 
chops or steaks. Tomatoes can also be baked in 
the oven in a tin with a little butter. 

Tongue. — Tongues can be cooked fresh, or they 
can be pickled, smoked, and dried. Dried tongues, 
whether ox or reindeer, require a great deal of 
soaking, and should always be put in soak over- 
night. Tongues fresh from the pickle only require 
three or four hours to soak. 



344 CHOICE DISHES 

Tongue, Boiled. — Put the tongue, after it has 
been soaked, into cold water in a saucepan, with an 
onion and a dessertspoonful of mixed sweet herbs. 
Let it boil till tender ; when done, remove the skin, 
and fasten it down with a couple of forks and a 
piece of string into the proper shape for it to be 
eaten cold — viz., somewhat like a lady's high-heeled 
boot. When it is cold, glaze and ornament it. 
(See Glaze.) The skin will easily peel off when 
tender. Time to boil a large smoked tongue, 
about five hours ; a small smoked tongue, about 
three hours and a half. A large unsmoked tongue, 
about four hours ; a small unsmoked tongue, about 
three hours. A fresh ox-tongue, about one hour 
and a quarter. 

Tongue, Sheep's. — Sheep's tongues can be boiled, 
and served hot with brain sauce. (See Sheep's 
Head and Sheep's Brains.) When the tongues 
are salted they can be treated just like ox-tongues, 
only they will not take more than an hour to boil. 
They can be served hot with boiled fowl or rabbit. 

Sheep's tongues make a pretty dish if arranged 
in a ring with the roots in the centre. The 
tongues should be brushed over with a little glaze 
if they are wished to look very nice. Pile some 
mashed potatoes high up in the middle ; or some 
green peas. Pour some brown gravy (see Gravy) 
round the tongues, and serve very hot. 

Tongue, To Glaze and Ornament. (See Glaze.) 
— Glaze the tongue with some good bright glaze. 
Tie a paper frill round the root, which must be 
trimmed and cut square with a knife. A flower 
cut out of a turnip to resemble a camellia, tied to a 



AT SMALL COST. 345 

few fresh bay-leaves, may be stuck in the root. A 
little ornamental work can be put round the 
tongue on the glaze as follows : — Koll a piece of 
notepaper up like a funnel. Melt a little clarified 
butter, and pour it into the funnel ; by holding the 
funnel near the tip you can let the butter run out 
in a very thin stream, or by drops, or you can stop 
it altogether. A little curly ornamental ring can 
be placed round the tongue by this means, or little 
white drops, as big as a small pea, placed round 
the edge, keeping the drops about half an inch 
apart. Surround the tongue Avith plenty of fresh 
green parsley, and avoid putting it on too small a 
dish. 

Tongues, Sheep's, Tinned. — Sheep's tongues are 
now sold in tins ; tliey can be warmed up, and 
treated as above, taking care to reserve all the 
jelly in the tin to help to make the gravy. 

Tinned tongues also make a nice dish cold. 
Place them in a ring, glaze them. Pile up some 
" macedoines," or some cold boiled carrot, turnip, 
and peas in the middle. Make a ring of Tartar 
sauce round the outside of the vegetables on the 
end of the roots of the tongues. 

Sheep's tongues tinned are A'ery nice curried. 
Simply warm them up in curry sauce. (See 
Curry Sauce.) 

Treacle Pudding. — Make some ordinary suet 
crust (see Paste, Suet, for Puddings), roll out 
the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, butter 
an ordinary pudding-basin, and line it with the 
paste as if you were going to make an ordinary 
fruit pudding. Put a little treacle at the l:>ottom, 



346 CHOICE DISHES 

and tlien a layer of paste, then anotlier layer of 
treacle, and so on till you fill the basin. Cover 
over with a top of paste, pinch the edges together 
in the ordinary way (see Puddixg, Meat), and' 
boil in a cloth for about three hours. 

Treacle Roly Poly. (See Roly Poly.) 

Tripe, Boiled. — It is almost needless to say 
that tripe must be thoroughly cleansed. It is 
often an improvement to soak tripe for two or 
three hours in milk, but it is not essential. Stew 
it gently in a little milk, and some onion sliced up 
in it. When both are tender, thicken it with 
white thickening. (See No. 12.) The tripe should 
be cut into strips before boiling — three or four 
inches long, and two wide. 

Tripe, Various ways of Cooking. — Tripe can 
be cooked in various ways, but by far the best 
is the above — viz., stewed and served with onion 
sauce. 

Tripe can be boiled till tender, and then warmed 
in curry sauce. (See Curry Sauce.) 

Tripe can also be boiled till tender, allowed to 
get cold, and it can then be floured and fried, and 
served with fried onion. 

Tripe can be baked in a dish with some onions 
cut up, and partially fried. Time to bake, two 
hours. The dish must be filled up with water or 
milk, which must be carefully skimmed before 
serving. 

Tripe can also be stewed in good stock, with 
mushrooms and chopped parsley ; this can be 
thickened with white thickening. Time to stew, 



AT SMALL COST. 347 

two hours. Season with pepper and salt, and 
bay-leaf. 

N.B. — The time for cooking tripe varies accord- 
ing to the state of preparation it is in when 
bought. Sometimes it requires little more than 
warming up. 

Trotters. — Trotters, whether sheep's or pig's, are 
very glutinous, and when properly cooked are very 
nourishing. They require a very long time to 
stew. Take six sheep's or pig's trotters, and cover 
them with some Xo. 3 Stock (see No. 10), or some 
water, with an onion and a little parsley. Let 
them stew for five hours till they are perfectly 
tender. Take them out, and remove the flesh from 
the bones. Put the flesh away on a plate, put back 
the liquor, and boil it down to about a quarter of 
a pint. Strain it ofi", add a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, thicken it with two yolks of eggs Avell 
beaten up, add a little pepper and salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. Warm up the flesh in 
this sauce, which should be as thick as custard, 
and resemble it in appearance. 

Trotters (another way). — Boil the trotters for 
four or five hours till tender. Boil the liquor 
away till there is only enough left to glaze them 
with. This liquor should have been flavoured with 
a little onion. Pour the liquor into a basin. 
Glaze the trotters with it, letting it get cold out- 
side like a jelly. When you finish one layer of 
glaze on the top of the other, before the last brush 
over gets cold, shake some bread raspings over the 
trotters. Ornament them with parsley. They can 
be eaten cold with oil and vinesjar ; serve some 



348 CHOICE DISHES 

finely-chopped raw parsley and raw onion on the 
dish with them, in separate heaps. 

Trout. — Trout are best grilled w^hole. (See No. 5.) 
Serve cut lemon with them, or a little oiled butter. 
They can also be fried (see No. 6) after being floured, 
but it is best not to egg-and-bread-crumb them. 

Small trout are very nice cooked whole, wrapped 
up w^ith plenty of butter and pepper, and a little 
chopped parsley and a pinch of mixed sweet herbs 
(see Herbs), in some well-oiled paper. Bake in 
the oven according to the size of the fish, and 
serve in the paper. Time for a half-pound trout, 
about twenty minutes. 

Trout, when large, can be boiled like a salmon, 
and served w^ith Dutch sauce. (See No. 1, and 
Dutch Sauce.) 

Trout can also be cut in slices, and served in the 
water in which it is boiled "Souchet." A few 
sprigs of parsley should be thrown in. The trout 
should be cut up directly it is caught, and the 
pieces thrown into cold sjDring water. Serve thin 
brown bread and butter with trout " Souchet." 

Tunny. — These fish are only to be had in Eng- 
land, preserved in oil. Serve with cut lemon and 
cayenne. 

Turhot, Boiled.— Empty the fish, wash it inside 
Avith scrupulous nicety, then remove the scales and 
gills, and trim the fins, but do not cut them ofi, as 
the gelatinous parts about them are esteemed a 
great delicacy. Rub a little salt all over the out- 
side of the fish — this will make the slime come ofi* 
more easily, and do away with the necessity for 



AT SMALL COST. 349 

soaking the fisli. Wash it until it is as clean as 
possible. Dry it, and rub it with a cut lemon or a 
little vinegar. Draw a sharp knife just through 
the skin in the thickest part of the middle of the 
back on the dark side of the fish. This is to keep 
the skin from cracking on the wdiite side. Put as 
much cold water as will be required to cover the 
iish into a turbot kettle, and dissolve in this a little 
salt, in the proportion of six ounces of salt to a 
gallon of water. Bring the water to the boil, and 




TURBOT KETTLE. 



remove the scum as it rises. Lay the turbot 
on the fish-drainer the wdiite side up, draw it 
back as soon as it boils (see No. 1), and simmer 
the fish very gently until it is done enough. As 
soon as this point is reached, take it up, drain the 
water from it, and slij) it, the white side up, upon 
a hot dish covered with a napkin or fish-pajDer. 
Garnish with parsley, cut lemon, and scraped horse- 
radish ; and if it should happen unfortunately that 
the fish is at all cracked, lay two or three little 
pieces of parsley upon it, so as to cover the crack. 
Plain melted butter, shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, 
Dutch sauce, and lobster sauce may all be served 
with boiled turbot. ^Yhen lobster sauce is used, a 
little of the spawn may be rubbed through a sieve 



350 



CHOICE DISHES 



and sprinkled over the fish, as well as a little 
chopped parsley. It is impossible to give the 
exact time for boiling, as tiirbot varies much in 
thickness as well as in size. When the flesh 
appears to shrink from the bone it is done, and it 
should be carefully watched, as if it boils too long 
it Avill be broken and spoilt. Time, a moderate- 
sized turbot, fifteen to twenty minutes to simmer 
gently from the time the v^ater boils; large, twenty 
to thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. 

Turbot, Carving of. — Run the fish-knife down 
from a to h, quite through the bone ; then cut 




TURBOT, CARVING OF. 



slices 
and 



m 

c d. 



the direction of the dotted lines c e 



Turbot, To Re-dress. — Turbot can be warmed up 
in a variety of ways. One very good way is to 
pull the flesh into flakes with a fork, and warm up 
the flakes in some Bechamel sauce, and serve it in 
a border of rice (see Rice Borders) or a border of 



AT SMALL COST. 351 

potatoes. (See Potato Borders.) Or it [can be 
served up in a large case made of puflf-paste — called 
a "vol au vent." 

Turbot is also very nice curried. Simply warm 
it up in some curry sauce, and serve boiled rice in 
a separate disli. 

Turkey, Boiled. — There is an old proverb which 
says that turkey boiled is turkey spoiled, but in 
this couplet there is more rhyme than reason, as a 
boiled turkey forms a dainty dish most acceptable 
to persons with delicate stomachs, who fear the 
richness of the roasted bird, and also presents an 
agreeable change to those who during the Christmas 
festivities are tired of having roasted turkey con- 
stantly set before them. A boiled turkey is pre- 
pared as follows : — Take a plump hen turkey which 
has hung for five or six days (weather permitting), 
pluck, singe, and draw it, fill it with veal force- 
meat (see Yeal Stuffing), truss it for boiling, and 
remember to draw the legs into the body, and bind 
it securely with tape. Kub it over thoroughly, 
especially the breast, with slices of cut lemon. 
The lemon must be hard and acid. Put it into 
an oval pan with hot water, or still better, 
stock, just sufficient to cover it, and put with 
it a teaspoonful of salt, a carrot, an onion stuck 
with four cloves, a dozen peppercorns, a few sticks 
of celery, and a bunch of parsley. Bring it slowly 
to the boil, skim the liquor carefully, and let it 
simmer very geutly until the turkey is tender. 
Take it up, drain it for a moment, serve on a hot 
dish, pour a little melted butter or, better still, some 
good rich white sauce (see White Sauce) over it, 



352 



CHOICE DISHES 



and send either parsley and butter, celery sauce, 
oyster sauce, Dutch sauce, or even good melted 
butter flavoured with horse-radish, to table with it. 
A small ham, boiled, a red tongue, or a good 
cheek of bacon, are all suitable accompaniments to 
boiled turkey, and the dish containing it may be 
garnished with bacon and sliced tongue, or with 
sliced lemon and parsley. 

Do not jDut the turkey in a floured cloth — this is 
a great mistake — but skim the stock carefully. 
Recollect, it must not boil, but simmer onlv. (See 
No. 1.) 

Time, for a turkey weighing fifteen pounds, two 
and a half hours to simmer, after the water has 
come to the boil. (See Oyster Sauce, Parsley and 
Butter Sauce, Dutch Sauce, Celery Sauce.) 

Turkey, Carving of. — The breast of a turkey is 
so large, that slices taken neatly from it and from 
the wings generally suffice for all. They should be 




TUEKET, ROAST, TO CARVE. 



taken from each side alternately, beginning close to 
the wings, and a little forcemeat and a small 
portion of liver should be served to each guest. 
When it is necessary for the legs to be used, they 



AT SMALL COST. 353 

should be separated from ilie body with a sharp 
knife and cut in slices, but it should be remembered 
that they, with the gizzard, will make an excellent 
devil. 

Turkey, Cold, To Re-dress. — A cold turkey can 
be turned to account in a variety of ways, and, 
indeed a very good dinner can be given from dishes 
made from the remains of a cold roast turkey 
alone. 

First cut all the meat from the bones, and begin 
dinner with some white souj^ made from the bones. 
(See "White Soup.) Some patties can be made 
from some of the white flesh of the turkey (see 
Patties ; see Fowl, Minced), and also some nice 
thin slices of white meat from the breast can 
be made into a nice mayonnaise salad. (See 
Salad, Mayonnaise.) The scraping of the bones 
will make an excellent dish of mince, on which 
some poached eggs can be placed. (See Mince.) 
Another entree can be made by making some 
turkey rissoles. (See Eissoles.) Some of the 
turkey can be minced, and mixed with some 
liver forcemeat, and some fat of the turkey 
can be picked out and mixed with it too ; add 
a veiy little port-wine dregs to tliis mixture. 
Make hot in some paper cases like cups, and 
warm in the oven. They will taste like game 
pie. The two drumsticks can be devilled (see 
Turkey Drumsticks, Devilled), and would make 
a good finish to a capital dinner. 

Turkey Drumsticks, Devilled. — Score the drum- 
sticks down parallel with the bone, and insert in 
the slices thus made, with a knife, a mixture of 

X 



354 CHOICE DISHES 

one ounce of butter, a brimming teaspoonful of 
French mustard, a saltspoonf ul of cayenne (or less), 
and a saltspoonful of black pepper. Mix all this 
thoroughly together, and spread the mixture in the 
slices cut in the meat; then rub the two drum- 
sticks with butter, and gi'ill them over a fierce fire. 

Turkey, Minced. (See Fowl, Minced.) 

Turkey, Potted. (See Potted Meats.) 

Turkey Rissoles. (See Rissoles.) 

Turkey, Roast. — Truss the turkey for roasting. 
Stuff it with some good veal forcemeat. (See Veal 
Stuffing.) Cover the turkey wdth very thin slices 
of fat bacon, and cover these with some buttered 
or oiled paper, tying them on with thread. The 
turkey should be entirely surrounded. Roast 
before a good fierce fire, or in a fairly fierce oven. 
(See No. 3 and No. 4.) About half an hour 
before you serve, take off the paper and bacon, 
but do not be anxious about browning the breast 
before the fire : you will too often dry the flesh and 
spoil it, in order to make it "look nice." Have 
ready a little thick rich glaze. (See Glaze.) 
Paint the breast with this, and colour the bird 
wherever it wants it. Serve some pork sausages, 
which can be cooked in the pan w^ith it ; and boiled 
ham or bacon, hot. Send some good, hot, rich, 
brow^n gravy to table with it in a tureen, and 
another of bread sauce. (See Bread Sauce.) Of 
course the breast should be slightly browned by 
being basted with butter and held near the fire. 
But don't overdo this : trust to the glaze. (See 
Glaze.) 



AT SMALL COST. 355 

Time to roast a turkey weighing fifteen pounds, 
three hours and a half; to bake, rather under 
three hours. One weighing ten pounds, to roast, 
two hours and a half; to bake, about two 
hours. A small turkey, six pounds, about one 
hour and a quarter. Remember, you must allow 
less time if you don't surround the turkey with 
bacon-fat. 

The chief fault with roast turkey is that it is so 
often spoilt by being over-cooked, and all the out- 
side meat hardened. 

Turkey Trussed for Boiling. — Plucky singe, 
and di-aw the bird, and be particularly careful not 
to break the gall-bladder, which adheres to the 
liver, for if any of the gall touches the bird it will 
impart a bitter taste to it. Cut off the head and 
neck, and leave sufficient skin to turn and sew 
over the back. After the forcemeat is put into 
the breast, cut off the legs at the first joint, draw 
the upper legs into the body, and make a slit for 
the stumps to go in. Break and flatten the breast- 
bone, and also break the back-bone, that the bird 
may lie flat on the dish. Truss firmly, to make it 
look as plump and round as possible. Turn the 
pinions with the points over the back, and fasten 
the liver (freed from gall) under one pinion, and 
the gizzard (washed and skinned) under the other. 
Skewer the apron over the nose, and pass string 
firmly round the body, fasten it to the skewers, 
and tie it in the middle of the back. 

Turkey Trussed for Roasting. — Pluck and 
singe the bird, and in drawing it preserve the 
liver and gizzard. Cut oft' the feet, and draw 



356 CHOICE DISHES 

out the strings or sinews from the thighs — there 
are five or six in each leg. Place three or four 
folds of cloth on the high breast-bone, and 
break and flatten it with a rolling-pin to make 
the bird look plump. Cut off the head and 
neck close to the body, and before doing so 
push back the skin of the neck so that sufficient 
may be left on to turn over the back. Hold the 
legs in boiling water for a minute or two, and 
afterwards peel off" the rough dirty skin. Fill the 
breast with forcemeat, and sew the neck over the 
back. Press the legs close to the breast, and pass 
a skewer through them and the body. Turn the 
points of the wings over the back, skewer them 
through the body, and put the liver under one 
pinion and the gizzard under the other. Cut a slit 
in the apron, and put the nose through. Pass a 
string over the back of the bird, put it firmly 
round the skewers, and tie it in the middle. Tie a 
buttered paper over the breast, and be ^'ery careful 
to truss the bird firmly. The liver of the turkey 
must be freed from gall and covered with a buttered 
paper, or it ^vill be dry and hard. The gizzard 
must be carefully cleansed — as it contains stones — 
skinned and washed, seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and, like the liver, guarded from the heat by 
buttered paper. 

Turnips, Boiled, and Mashed. — When turnips 
are young they are best boiled whole. Put them 
into boiling sal t-and- water. (See No. 9.) Time 
to boil, about twenty minutes. They can be 
placed round boiled meat, alternately with boiled 
carrots. The turnips should be pared thinly, 



AT SMALL COST. 357 

and tlirown into cold wuter directly tliey are 
peeled. 

When turnips are old they must be mashed. 
Boil them till tender, after paring as before. The 
time to do this will vary from half an hour to two 
hours, according to the age. Mash them with a 
fork, and if necessary they can be rubbed through 
a wire sieve. When mashed mix them up with a 
little butter, add pepper, and warm the pulp up in 
a little milk. 

Turnip-tops, Green. — Pick away the decayed 
leaves, boil the turnip-tops in plenty of salted 
water, the more water the better. They will take 
about twenty minutes to boil. (See No. 9. ) Drain 
in a colander, and serve piled up in a dish. Be 
careful to thoroughly drain them. The turnip-tops 
can be cut up fine like spinach, a little piece of 
butter added to them, and hard-boiled eggs served 
on them like spinach. 

Turtle Soup from Dried Turtle Flesh.— Very 
good real turtle soup can be made from dried 
turtle flesh ; and as this flesh is now sold at 5s. a 
pound, and half a pound will make two quarts of 
soup, it is by no means expensive. Indeed, at 
Christmas time, when a calf's head will sometimes 
fetch from 10s. to £1, soup made from turtle flesh, 
dried, is cheaper than mock-turtle soup made from 
the fresh calf's head. 

Take half a pound of dried flesh, soak it in 
warm water for half an hour, dry it with a cloth, 
and put it into, say, a quart of No. 1 stock (see 
No. 10) before it is cleared, or has any extract of 
meat added to it. Put it on early in the morning 



358 CHOICE DISHES 

to boil, and let it boil all day. More stock must 
be added as it boils away. At night turn it out 
into a basin and cover it over with a clean 
cloth. It will probably be tender. Put it on 
again the next day to boil, the first thing in 
the morning, adding more stock. If water is 
added, it wdll require another onion, a few sticks 
more celery, and a handful of parsley. If stock 
is added, and these were in the stock with 
the knuckle of veal, there will be no occasion for 
any fresh vegetable to be added. If possible, 
procure a pound of conger-eel, or one pound and a 
half of fresh eels ; boil these in the soup, take them 
out when tender and throw them into boiling water, 
and serve them for lunch, or keep them as a 
separate dish. Eels " Souchet. " — Serve in the water 
with a few sprigs of parsley, and with thin brown 
bread and butter. 

Next take a little stock, say, half a pint. Put 
it in a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of dried 
basil, one of marjoram, a teaspoonful of thyme, 
and, if possible, a teaspoonful of dried pennyroyal. 

Let these herbs stew for an hour ; keep the lid 
on. 

Take off the stewpan, still keeping on the lid. 
Let it get cold, or nearly so; then strain off the 
stock through a strainer into a basin, squeezing as 
much goodness as possible out of the lierbs. 

When the flesh is as tender as calf's head, cut 
up the meat into pieces two inches square. Add 
the stock flavoured with the herbs gradually till 
the soup acquires the right flavour. These herbs 
vary so very much in quality that more explicit 
directions might mislead. Season the soup with 



AT SMALL COST. 359 

cayenne, and, if necessary, clear it (see No. 18), 
taking out the now tender flesh first. 

Then add a good brimming tablespoonful of 
extract of meat, and half a tumbler of ^ladeira or 
golden sherry. Good No. 1 stock must have been 
added to make the whole quantity two quarts. If 
jDOSsible, boil a good-sized piece of lean ham in the 
stock. This is a very great improvement. Make 
a couple of dozen egg-balls the size of marbles. 
(See Egg Balls.) Boil these separate, and add to 
the soup the last moment. Add also the juice of 
half a lemon, and serve some cut lemon and 
cayenne with the soup. 

If care is taken with the stock, this soup will be 
fairly clear, and, if strained through a jelly-bag 
two or three times will very likely not require 
clearing. 

If thick soup is wished, thicken with brown 
thickening; a good deal will be required, freshly 
made. Skim then very thoroughly. CSee No. 12.) 

Turtle Soup, Mock. (See Mock Turtle.) 

Twice-laid. — This is a very common dish on 
board ship, as it is made from dried and salted 
fish. Soak whatever fish is used. Boil it till 
tender, remove the meat from the bones, mix it 
with some butter, and a teaspoonful or more of 
anchovy sauce. Add some remains of potatoes. 
Season with plenty of pepper and a little salt. 
Press it into a mould, and make it hot, turn it out 
on to a dish, ornament with hard-boiled eggs cut 
in halves. This is a good breakfast dish. Put 
about two parts fish to one part potato. Or it is 
very good with half of each. 



360 CHOICE DISHES 

Twice-laid is very nice made from dried had- 
dock. 

Vanilla. — Vanilla is used for flavouring custards, 
puddings, omelets, &c. When used in the form of 
essence of vanilla, it should be kept tightly corked. 
It varies very much in strength. When it is used 
in the stick, a few pieces should be tied up in a 
muslin bag, with a string attached. This can be 
held in the boiling milk till the desired amount of 
vanilla flavour is imparted to it. 

Vanilla Ice. (See Ice Cream.) 

Veal and Ham Pie. (See Pie, Veal and Ham.) 

Veal, a la Marengo.— A very good imitation of 
the popular dish known as "Poulet a la Marengo" 
can be made from veal. Cut up some breast of 
veal into pieces about two or three inches long, one 
and a half wide and one and a half thick ; say, a 
dozen pieces, which would make a large dish. 

Brown the outside of these pieces in a frying- 
pan, quickly — i.e., a good deal of heat and very 
little fat or butter. Let these pieces then stew 
gently in some good brown gravy. (See Gravy.) 
Put the pieces together in a stewpan, and just 
cover them. Add a small tin of mushrooms, a 
tablespoonf ul of tomato pulp out of a bottle, or of 
tomato sauce, a little cayenne, and pepper and salt. 
Fry half a dozen eggs, and brown the tops of the 
eofgs with a hot shovel. Place the veal and mush- 
rooms neatly in an entree or vegetable dish. Pour 
over the sauce. Place the eggs on the top without 
breaking them, and add, last of all, a dozen stoned 
olives, which should be placed round the edge, 



AT SMALL COST, 361 

and some croutons of fried bread. (See Ko. 7.) 
Time to stew the veal, one and a half hours. 

Fried eggs for "Poulet a la Marengo,'' and, indeed, 
for all entrees wliere fried eggs are used, should 
look like little light-brown balls. To attain this, 
it is necessary to have some hot fat very deep. 
This is rarely practicable in private houses, but by 
frying eggs in the ordinary way, and holding a hot 
shovel over them, and basting them Avith fat, a 
very good imitation of properly-fried eggs can be 
obtained. 

Veal, Boiled. — Boiled veal is rarely liked, it is 
insipid, and very apt to be of a bad colour. AVhen 
it is cooked this way, serve boiled bacon or sausages 
with it, as well as parsley and butter sauce or 
celery sauce. (See Parsley and Butter and 
Celery Sauce.) Yeal can be boiled in the stock- 
pot for some time till sufficiently cooked for eating, 
then taken out, and browned quickly in a fierce 
oven, and some veal stuffing cooked separately 
added. This is an economical way. The soup 
gains at the expense of the joint. Many, however, 
would never know but that the veal had been 
roasted in the legitimate fashion. Yeal always 
wants ham or bacon with it, either boiled or fried. 

Veal, Breast of. Roast. — Breast of veal can be 
roasted in the usual way (see Ko. 3) or baked in 
the oven. (See Ko. 4.) Yeal takes a long time 
to cook, and it will be best to cover the joint with 
the caul, or with buttered paper. Serve some 
forcemeat balls of veal stuffing (see Yeal Stuff- 
ing) with it. Ornament it with cut lemon, and 
serve boiled or fried bacon with it. Make some 



362 CHOICE DISHES 

gravy in the dripping-pan, and thicken this gravy 
with a little brown thickening (see No. 12), or 
with butter and flour. Season the gravy with 
pepper and salt, and a little lemon-juice may he. 
added. It is a very great improvement to the 
appearance of roast veal to brush it over wdth a 
little glaze ; a teaspoonf ul of soy, mixed with two 
of rich gravy, will do. This can be thickened 
with corn-floiu\ 

The best method of cooking breast of veal is to 
have it boned. The bones are invaluable for the 
stock-pot. Make some veal stuffing (see Veal 
Stuffing), spread a layer of this on the breast, 
roll it, and tie up exactly like a beef olive. (See 
Beef Olive.) Bake (see No. 4) glaze, &c., as 
above. Make a little gravy, as above, in the 
dripping-pan. Time to roast or bake a breast of 
veal, about three hours. A thick-rolled joint takes 
a long time ; cover at first with a caul or with 
buttered paper. 

The sw^eetbread is sometimes attached to the 
breast. It is a great pity to roast it with the 
veal. It should always be cut off and cooked 
separately. (See Sweetbread.) 

Veal, Breast of, Roasted, To Carve. — The breast 
of veal should be first separated into two parts — 
it rightly consists of two — the rib-bones and the 
gristly brisket. This is done by cutting in the 
direction of the lines, 1, 2. The gristly part being 
divided into parts in the direction 3, 4, may be 
offered to those who prefer it — in a breast of veal 
stewed, these are particularly tender .and inviting. 
The ribs are to be separated in the direction 5, 6 ; 



AT SMALL COST. 363 

and, with a part of the breast, a slice of the sweet- 
bread cut across the middle, should the sweetbread 
be cooked with it. 




VEAL, BREAST OF, ROASTED, TO CARTE. 

Veal, Cold, To Re-dress. — Yeal, especially roast, 
is very nice cold. It should be cut thin with a 
very sharp knife; a little stuffing should be cut 
with it, and a thin slice of ham. It is probably 
nicer this way than in any other form of warming- 
up. Cold veal, however, makes excellent mince, 
with poached eggs. (See Mixce, and Eggs, 
Poached.) It also is very good curried. Simply 
cut the veal in small pieces, or shred the meat 
finely with two forks, and warm it up in curry 
sauce. (See Curry Sauce.) Serve boiled rice 
separately. Veal can also be made into rissoles. 
(See Rissoles.) It can be hashed like beef or 
mutton (see Hash), and it can be used as meat in 
Mulligatawny soup. 

Veal Cutlet. (See Cutlets.) 

Veal, Loin of. — Loin of veal can be roasted (see 
No. 3 and No. 4), or can be cut into veal chops 
and grilled. Loin of veal is very nice boned, and 
stuffed with veal stuffing (see Yeal Stuffing) like 
loin of mutton. (See Mutton, Loin of.) 



36-1: CHOICE DISHES 

Veal, Minced. (See Mince.) 

Veal Olive. — Veal olive, or veal olives, can be 
made from a large slice, or small slices, of veal 
exactly in the same way as beef olive. (See Beef 
Olive.) Stuff with veal stuffing, and proceed in 
every respect as in making beef olives. Glaze in 
the same way, using a little soy, and serve fried 
bacon rolled up with the olive or olives. 

The gravy should be thick, and can be made 
from the dregs of the dripping-pan. Yeal olive 
will requii'e longer cooking than beef olive. If 
very thick, allow twenty-five minutes to thirty 
minutes to every pound. 

Veal, Roast. (See No. 3 and 4.) — Eemember, 
veal is very unwholesome and unpalatable under- 
done. It should look a rich brown colour outside. 
The sauce or gravy should be thickened with 
thickening, or butter and flour. (See No. 12.) 
It requires some kind of stuffing. Yeal stuffing 
is by far the best. (See Yeal Stuffing.) Eoast 
veal requires boiled ham or bacon with it, as it is a 
dry meat. 

On the continent, especially in Germany, stewed 
cherries, currants, gooseberries, ttc, are served 
Avith roast veal ; sometimes sweet, and sometimes 
pickled in vinegar. 

Veal, Stewed. (See Ko. 2.) — When veal is. 
stewed, it is always best to brown the pieces first 
in a frying-pan, without cooking them through. 
An onion can be first sliced up, and fried brown, 
and the pieces of veal browned in the pan after- 
wards. The fried onion can then be stewed with 



AT SMALL COST. 365 

the veal. The flavour of marjoram is always good 
with veal, so that it is as well to put a small 
quantity of mixed sweet herbs in the gravy in 
which the veal is stewed. (See Herbs, Mixed.) 
Mushrooms, also, are a great improvement to 
stewed veal. Green peas are sometimes stewed 
with veal. It is, however, far better to boil them 
separate. Stewed veal must never boil. Green 
peas, to be nice, should never stop boiling while 
they cook. Serve fried bread (see No. 7) with 
stewed veal, as well as any of the abovenamed 
fruits if liked. 

Veal Stuffing. — Take a quarter of a pound of 
beef suet, chop it very finely with two ounces of 
raw ham, add two teaspoonfuls of fresh-chopped 
parsley, and from one to two teaspoonfuls of mixed 
sweet herbs (see Herbs), according to the length of 
time they have been kept ; add half a quarter of the 
rind of a lemon, chopped very fine, five ounces of 
fine bread crumbs (see Ko. 20), two eggs, a very 
little grated nutmeg, a saltspoonful of ordinary 
pepper, a quarter of one of cayemie, and a salt 
spoonful of salt. First of all, mince the suet and 
ham, herbs and lemon-peel, very finely, then add 
the bread crumbs and seasoning. Pound the whole 
in a mortar. Next, beat up the two eggs, and mix 
the whole thoroughly together. This is very good, 
and constantly used. Forcemeat will not be good 
unless great pains are taken in mixing the in- 
gredients well together. 

A very convenient way of obtaining two ounces 
of raw ham is to order one or two cushion rashers 
of bacon for breakfast. These are always chiefly 



366 CHOICE DISHES 

lean. Keep two ounces of this lean for the 
stuffing. 

If you have no ham, rub two or three ounces of 
the flesh of the veal itself through a wire sieve (see 
No. 21), and use that instead. More lemon-peel 
can be added if liked, but it is apt to cause the 
stuffincj to be tasted loni? after it is eaten. 

Vegetable Marrow, Boiled. — Vegetable marrows 
are best when young. Peel the marrow, remove 
any seeds, cut it in quarters, or half-quarters, 
according to size ; boil. (See No. 9.) Drain off 
the pieces of marrow, and serve them on toast. 
Serve either butter sauce or white sauce with it in 
a tureen. Time to boil young vegetable marrows, 
from fifteen to twenty minutes ; old ones, from 
thirty minutes to forty minutes. 

Vegetable Marrow Jam. (See Jam.) 

Vegetable Marrow Soup. — Take a large vege- 
table marrow, boil it in a quart of No. 3 Stock. 
(See No. 10.) This stock must not have any 
extract of meat in it. Boil the marrow and the 
stock away till the whole becomes a pulp. This 
will take some time, as the marroAv itself contains 
a good deal of water. When it is reduced to a 
thick pulp, take care it does not burn. Add it to 
a pint and a half of boiling milk, and mix. Pass 
it through a wire sieve (see No. 21), and serve 
with fried bread. (See No. 7.) Flavour with 
pepper and salt, and a " suspicion " of nutmeg. A 
bay-leaf may be boiled in the milk. A small slice 
of raw ham boiled in this soup is a very great 
improvement. A piece of a "cushion rasher'' will 



AT SMALL COST. 367 

do. Thicken with white thickening (see No. 12), 
or butter and flour. The butter should not be 
skimmed off. 

Vegetables, Dried. — Dried vegetables are now 
sold, and are very convenient for making soups in 
winter, or where there is no garden. They consist 
chiefly of strips of carrot, turnip, &c. Soak these 
for an hour or more in cold water, drain them off, 
and then boil them in some clear stock, No. 1 or 
No. 2. (See No. 10.) This makes a good Julienne 
soup. They will generally be tender with twenty 
minutes' boiling. 

A good quantity of dried vegetables can be 
soaked in cold water, then boiled in w^ater slightly 
salted, then drained, and served as vegetables in a 
dish. 

When this is the case, add a spoonful of chopped 
fresh parsley to them a minute before draining 
them off: this will be sufiicient to blanch the 
parsley. Mix in a good-sized piece of butter. 
The dish can be rubbed with garlic and the 
vegetables tossed together. 

Vegetables, Tinned. — Nearly every kind of 
vegetable is now preserved in tins. Of these, the 
most useful are macedoines (a medley) and green 
peas. Macedoines, with some stock and extract of 
meat in the house, make soup at a moment's 
notice. They also make, equally quickly, a German 
salad. (See German Salad.) They make an 
excellent garnish, when served up, say, in the 
centre of a dish of cutlets, or with cold fowl and 
aspic-jelly for supper. Green peas should be only 
just made hot through, with a few fresh mint- 



368 CHOICE DISHES 

leaves, if possible. This is a very great improve- 
ment. Add a saltspoonful of mixed sugar and 
salt, equal quantities. The peas must, of course, 
be drained off. 

It is a great convenience to have a few tins in 
the house. 

Vegetables, To Boil. (See No. 9.) 

Venison Chops. — These can be cut from a neck 
of venison. Grill them carefully (see No. 5), black 
outside, red in. Whatever you do, don't waste the 
gravy that Avill often settle in the chop while 
cooking. Serve hot, with red currant jelly and a 
floury potato. 

Venison, Hashed. — A haunch of venison is as a 
rule as much beyond the ordinary person's means 
as it is beyond the capacity, not so much of the 
cook, as the generality of kitchen grates. Other 
parts of the venison are, however, very often sold 
as cheap as eightpence a pound ; such as the breast, 
&c. The shoulder, too, is cheap. 

Cut up some of the meat of a breast of venison, 
fat and lean together, into pieces about three inches 
long, one and a half inches wide, and one and a 
half thick. Have ready a hot jar, and treat 
the venison in exQvj respect as jugged hare — i.e., 
fry the outside quickly brown without cooking it. 
N.B. — Very little fat, very hot fire. Serve fried 
bread with this hashed or stewed venison as well 
as red currant jelly. 

Wlien venison is eightpence a pound, and the 
weather favourable for keeping — for venison should 
be not exactly high, but getting on that way — ■ 



AT SMALL COST. 369 

this will prove a cheap delicacy. Port-wine dregs 
are as good as the wiiie itself. 

If the venison is in a somewhat pronounced 
state, wash it with vinegar and water, before cut- 
ting it up. Wash it in plain water afterwards. 

To keep pieces of venison till they are in condi- 
dition, choose a cool, dry place. Keep it dry and 
floured all over. 

Venison Pasty. — Venison pasty or pie can be 
made from breast of venison, often to be bought at 
eightpence a pound. What it requires is : — first, 
plenty of good brown gi'avy that will cover the 
meat entirely, and which will be a firm jelly when 
cold ; secondly, to every two pounds of venison, 
have half a pound of liver forcemeat (see Liver 
Forcemeat), and half a pound of ham cut in slices. 
Cut the venison in slices, lay it lu a pie-dish, placing 
a thin layer of forcemeat over each piece, as well 
as a slice of ham, thin. Let the top layer be ham, 
cut very thin. Season with a saltspoonful of the 
mixed herbs similar to those you used to make the 
forcemeat, and plenty of black pepper. Add to the 
above quantity four hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. 
Fill the dish as high as possible, cover to the brim 
with gravy, and bake for an hour and a half without 
a crust, keeping it covered with gravy, and, say, a 
vegetable-dish cover. Take it out, let it get nearly 
cold, then cover with some pufi*-paste, glazed with 
^g^^, and bake for another hour and a half. Take it 
out, and let it get cold. Fill the pie through a 
hole in the top with gravy nearly set to a jelly. 
Do this gi'adually till the jelly reaches the crust. 
This is an excellent cold game pie. In hot weather, 

Y 



370 CHOICE DISHES 

add some gelatine to tlie gi'avy, to make it set 
hard. 

Venison, Roast. — Venison is roasted exactly like 
mutton. (See No. 3.) Some brown gravy must be 
made separate, as it makes no gra\^ itself worth 
mentioning. Cover the venison Avith buttered or 
oiled paper. When nearly cooked, remove the paper, 
flour it, baste it with butter, and brown it before 
the fire, making it froth. Venison requires a 
quick fh'e and fierce oven. 

Serve French beans with it, good brown gravy, 
and red currant jelly or venison sauce. (See 
Venisox Sauce). 

When there is but little fat to the venison, it 
should be covered with thin slices of mutton fat, 
tied on under buttered paper. This in the case of 
shoulder of venison is important. When venison 
is very lean, a piece of mutton fat should be roasted 
with it, and a small slice of hot mutton fat served 
with the slice of lean venison. Though this is not 
equal to venison fat itself, it is far better than 
eating venison without any fat at all. 

Time to roast a shoulder of venison, if well 
covered with mutton fat, about two hours. 

Venison Sauce. — Melt a large tablespoonful of 
red currant jelly in a small stewpan. Add six 
cloves, a little piece of cinnamon, and a strip of 
lemon-peel. Strain off after half an hour, and add 
a tablespoonful of port wine. Make it just loarm. 
This is very nice with a venison chop. 

Vermicelli Pudding. — Sweeten rather more 
than a pint of milk, and boil it. Flavour it in 
any way desired, such as lemon-peel rubbed on 



AT SMALL COST. 371 

sugar ; powdered spices, such as cinnamon or nut- 
meg ; essences, such as vanilla ; almonds, &c. Add 
to it a quarter of a pound of vermicelli that has 
been washed in cold water, let it boil for about 
fifteen minutes, turn it in a basin, and add from 
one to three eggs, according to how rich the 
pudding is wished. Mix the beaten-up eggs 
well in. 

Then eitlier bake it in a pie-dish for an hour, or 
put it in a buttered mould and boil it in a cloth, or 
steam it, for the same time. If baked, grate a 
little nutmeg over the top. If boiled, turn it out 
on to a dish, and serve with some sv/eet sauce. 
(See Sweet Sauce.) 

Vermicelli Soup. — Wash a little vermicelli, and 
boil it till tender in some water. Drain it off, and 
add it to some nice bright stock, No. 1 or No. 2. 
A little extixi extract of meat can be put to this 
delicate soup, and a bead of garlic can also be 
added. 

Walnuts, Pickled. — These pickles are useful as, 
in addition to being served with cold meat, they 
can be added to hashes ; and also the dark skin 
often helps to garnish a dish as a substitute for the 
expensive truffle. 

Warren's Cooking Pot. — Probably by means of 
this mvention less food is w^asted than in any other 
known methods of cooking. For instance, when a 
leg of mutton is roasted or baked, a certain amount 
of flavour and nutriment must of necessity go up 
the chimney ; or when a leg of mutton is boiled, a 
certain amount of juice necessarily goes into the 



372 CHOICE DISHES 

water in which it is boiled. Warren's Cooking Pot 
cooks meat in an almost air-tight chamber, heated 
by steam. Thus the meat cooks in its own vapour, 
w is a large oval-shaped pot, into which is fitted 
an inner case a, leaving a space into which water 
is poured. The lid c may now be placed on, and 
the pot, so far as cooking meat is concerned, is 
complete. The meat of course is placed in the 
chamber A. The pot is placed on the fire, and the 
water in w kept boiling, the steam of course arising 
and surrounding the chamber a, but 7iot entering 
it. The lid c is made double for the purpose of 
condensing the steam, which runs back into w. 
There is, however, a small hole in the lid c in the 
top, in order to let out the steam should it boil too 
fast. A good-sized leg of mutton takes about 
three hours to cook by this means. Shortly before 
it is done, open the chamber a, and pour into a 
basin all the liquor and melted fat that has 
run out of the leg of mutton owing to the heat, 
and replace the mutton in a. Strain off the fat, 
which of course must be kept for dripping, and 
w^arm up this liquor (from the condensation of the 
steam of the mutton, perchance increased by a 
trifling escape from the steam in the outer cham- 
ber) fresh in a small saucepan, and use it as the 
gravy to pour over the meat when served on a 
dish. In a leg of mutton cooked in Warren's 
Cooking Pot, a saving of quite ten per cent., if not 
more, is effected. Joints of meat can be cooked in 
Warren's pot till nearly done, and then browned 
before the fire, but a leg of mutton served as a 
boiled leg cooked this way is far preferable. The 
portion b of the pot is for cooking vegetables, and 



AT SMALL COST. 373 

can be placed on the top of the chamber A before 
the lid is placed on, and the same lid then fits on 
B. There is a small tube connecting b with w, so 
that the steam rises into b, into which vegetables 



CAPTAIN WARREN* S COOKING-POT. 



may be placed, that are thus cooked by steam 
during the same time that the meat is being cooked 
in its own vapour in the chamber a. 

For travellers camping out there is probably no 
invention in the world in relation to cooking so 
useful as Captain Warren's Cooking Pot. A few 
bricks may be collected and ranged round with 
spaces between, filled with a little coke or coal, 
and the pot placed on the top. All that is 



374 CHOICE DISHES 

necessary is to keep in the fire, and the meat and 
vegetables will, after a time, be as well cooked, 
and taste as savoury, though the fire has been 
stirred by a soldier's bayonet, as if served up in 
the most luxurious Parisian cafe. When the pot 
is not in use, first let it be thoroughly cleansed, 
and then put by in separate pieces, and not all 
fitted together. Of course, quite new pots require 
washing and boiling to get rid of that tin flavour 
peculiar to all new tin vessels. 

Water Ices. (See Ices, Water Fruit.) 

Welsh Rabbit. — Make a slice of dry toast. 
Put a piece of butter in a stewpan, break some 
cheese up into little pieces, and melt these in the 
butter. Pour the butter on to the toast first, and 
then the melted cheese. The oiled butter always 
floats at the top of the cheese. Some persons mix 
mustard with it, others add a spoonful of old ale. 
Mustard, unless it is known to be liked, had better 
be served separate. If old ale is added, it must be 
very good — like A 1 Burton ale. Welsh rabbit 
must be served very hot. A nice moist yellow 
cheese is best, a dry American the worst, for Welsh 
rabbit. 

Whitebait. — Wliitebait, though often not dear 
to buy, are but seldom met with in private houses, 
owing to the difliculty found in cooking them. 
Whitebait should be taken lightly out of the cool 
water in which they are kept, and thrown into 
flour, an inch thick, on a cloth. Take quickly out 
of the thick flour, and place a few at a time in 
a frying-basket, the outside flour shaken off*, and 



AT SMALL COST. 375 

plunge into hot fat amply deep enough to more 
than cover them. The fat must be smoking. 
(See Ko. 6.) The temperature should be 400''. 
The flour is put an inch deep in order to avoid the 
necessity of handling the whitebait. The time to 
keep the whitebait in the fat — i.e., if the fat is the 
proper heat — is about five seconds. The fat should 
be so hot that it will blacken a piece of dry bread 
almost dii-ectly. 

Next, bear in mind that the whitebait should be 
fried the instant they are floured. You cannot 
flour whitebait and put them by ready for . frying. 
Throw the whitebait into the flour ; roll them in it 
for a few seconds by lifting the end of the cloth, 
then into the basket and into the fat. Serve instantly. 
Run with them to the dining room, and serve cut 
lemon and cayenne pepper with them, and then 
brown bread and butter. 

Whitebait, Devilled. — Devilled whitebait is gene- 
rally made from the remains of the whitebait just 
cooked, or some can be cooked fresh. Take some 
recently-cooked whitebait, put them in the frying- 
basket, sprinkle them freely with black pepper or 
cayenne pepper, plunge them into the fat for four 
or five seconds, and serve quickly. When sprinkled 
with black pepper, it is called a black devil, when 
with red pepper, it is called a red devil. 

Whitebait, Imitation. — Get some fresh fish, 
such as dabs. They should be very fresh. Fillet 
them, cut them into very thin strips, barely an 
eighth of an inch thick, but about two inches long. 
Treat these exactly as whitebait. Serve with cut 
lemon, cayenne, and brown bread and butter. 



376 CHOICE DISHES 

White Sauce. — White sauce is really good white 
stock, thickened with white thickening. A piece 
of lean ham — part of cushion rasher. will do — 
should be boiled in it. It is sometimes called white 
^' Yeloute " sauce. It is an improvement to add a little 
milk. The milk should be boiled separately first. 
When white sauce is made by reducing stock and 
adding boiling milk, or, still better, cream, it should 
be called Bechamel sauce. 

A fairly good white sauce for vegetables can be 
made by boiling a slice of onion, carrot, turni}), or 
any spare pieces of vegetables, especially onions 
and strips of celery, in a little milk, and thickening 
the milk with some white thickening. The milk 
can be thickened with corn-flour ; but it wants 
butter, which should not be skimmed off". A slice 
of ham boiled in it has a magical eifect. 

White Soup. — White soup is in reality white 
sauce, only in larger quantities and not quite so 
strong. White soups, such as celery, cauliflower, 
Palestine, potato, vegetable marrow, have all the 
same basis — viz., reduced stock and boiling milk, 
and only differ as to which stewed vegetable is 
rubbed through the wire sieve. 

Fried bread — little cubes of a quarter of an inch 
size — should always be served with all white soups. 
(See No. 7.) Every kind of white soup should 
have one or two bay-leaves boiled in the milk, and 
a " suspicion " of nutmeg added at the finish. 

White Thickening, or Roux. (See No. 12.) 

Whiting, Fried. — The flesh of the whiting is 
very delicate, The very commori and, indeed^ 



AT SMALL cosr. 377 

almost universal mistake is to over-cook whiting. 
ISkewer the tail in the mouth, so as to make the fish 
into a circular shape. Egg-ancI-breacI the whiting. 
(See No. 20.) Fry it in very hot fat. (See Xo. 6.) 
Time to fry small whiting, about tv:o minutes. 
Recollect, the fat must be sufficiently hot to fry the 
bread crumbs a nice golden colour in this time. 
Whiting, like w^hitebait, should be served directly 
it is cooked. If there is fish and soup, the cook 
should not commence to fry the fish until after the 
soup has been served. 

Widgeon. — Draw and truss the bird. Roast 
before a fierce fire, or in a very hot oven, for about 
fifteen minutes. Serve w^ith a little gravy separate 
in a tureen, and also with cut lemon and cayenne. 
Also serve with them venison sauce of red currant 
jelly and port wine. (See Yenisox Sauce.) The 
widgeon, like snipe, teal, and wild duck, should be 
underdone, or it is not worth eating. 

Wild Duck. — Pluck, draw, and truss the bird. 
Roast it before a fierce fire for about fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Send cut lemon to table with it, 
and cayenne pepper. Wild duck requires no gravy. 
It should be red inside when cut. The breast is 
the best part. In carving a wild duck it is 
customary for the carver to score the breast intc 
six slices down to the bone, and squeeze lemon, 
dipped in cayenne pepper, into the gashes. Take 
care that the lemon does not squirt in the eye. I 
once witnessed this : the sufferings of the carver, 
owing to the cayenne pepper, were terrible. 

Wine Sauce. — A very good sauce for boiled rice 
pudding or suet pudding can be made by simply 



378 CHOICE DISHES 

mixing brown sugar with wine, such as sherry, 
cowslip, or raisin. (See Sweet Sauce and Venison 
Sauce.) 

Woodcock, Roast. — Truss the bird. (See Wood- 
cock, Trussed.) Roast it before a fierce fire, or in 
a quick oven, for about fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Place a piece of toast miderneath the bird after 
it has been roasted for about five minutes to catch 
the trail ; baste as frequently as possible. Let the 
butter with which the bird is basted soak into the 
toast. Serve very good unflavoured gravy with 
it, and some bread sauce. The bird should be 
served on the toast directly it is roasted. The 
Avoodcock should be red inside when it is cut, and 
bright browTi outside. The fire or oven must be 
fierce. 

Woodcock, Trussed. — Pluck the bird entirely, 
head and neck included, and very carefully, to 
avoid tearing the tender skin. Singe off the hairs 
and cut off the ends of the toes, but do not draw 
the birds. Twist the legs at the joints to bring the 
feet upon the thighs. Press the wings to the sides, 
and turn the head under the wing, wdth the 
beak forward. Tie a string round the legs and 
breast, and pass one also round the head and the 
tip of the bill. Hang the bird to the spit feet- 
dowaiwards. 

Yarmouth Bloaters. — (See Bloaters.) 

Yeast Dumpling's. — Get some dough from the 
baker's ; roll it into dumplings — half a quartern 
of dough will make eight. Throw into boiling 
water, and boil for about twenty minutes. Serve 



AT SMALL COST. 379 

sweet sauce, plain sugar, or good grsivj and salt, or 
jam, (tc, with the dumplings. (See also Norfolk 
Dumplings.) 

York Hams. — (See Ham.) 

Yorkshire Pudding. — Make a batter of two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one egg well-beaten up, a 
pinch of salt, and sufficient milk to make the 
batter of the consistency of double cream. Get a 
baking-tin about one and a half inches deep. 
Pour a little dripping into the tin, which must 
be thoroughly greased : the dripping should be 
nearly an eighth of an inch deep in the bottom 
of the tin. Put this tin into a fierce oven, and 
make it very hot. Pour the batter into it wdiile 
it is very hot, and bake for about thirty minutes. 
The pudding should be cut into squares, and served 
with hot roast beef. 



CASSELL, PETTER, GALPIN & CO., BELLE SiUVAGE WOKKS, LOKEON, E.C 



CHEAP EDITION, price 3s. 6d. 

A Year's Cookery. The only book of its kind. 

Giving Dishes for Breakfast, Luncheon, and Dinner for 
Every Day in the Year, with Practical Instructions for their 
Preparation. By Phillis Browne. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt. 

" A Year's Cookery, by Phillis Browne, with bills of fare for every day 
in the year, with directions for cooking, for marketing, and for making 
arrangements for the next day. makes up an invaluable present for young 
housekeepers." — A thencEUJn 

"The meals for every day in the year are laid down, and the clearest 
and most minute directions are given for the preparation of each dish." — 
Graphic. 

" The recipes are pleasantly varied, and neither too intricate nor too 
costly." — Globe. 

" It would be impossible to select a more appropriate book for presenta- 
tion." — Cojtrt jfournal. 

"A really unique Cookery Book." — Liverpool Post. 

Cassell, Fetter, Galpin <£• Co., Ludgate Hill, London. 



CHEAP EDITION, price 3s. 6d. 

What Girls Can Do. a Book for Mothers and 
Daughters. By Phillis Browne, Author of "A Year's 
Cookery," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt. 

"Miss Browne gives many practical hints on all kinds of work, whether 
they be undertaken for duty, necessity, or pleasure. Girls who are forced 
to earn their livelihood, are ambitious of making themselves useful, or only 
desire not to be idle, may all consult with advantage these pages, which 
have the great merit of being within the compass of all to profit by."— T/i^ 
Times. 

" We recommend the volume as a ver>' appropriate prize or present, and 
one which is not likely to be left unread." — The Qneen. 

"The book contains every information necessary to make the home of 
the young girl happy through her own means. By studying What Girls 
Can Do, every girl will soon become a blessing to her household and a 
comfort to her ^z.x{v\\y."~Coiirt Jourtial. 

"As an exceedingly useful and reliable manual of information, we heartily 
recommend What Girls Can Do to both the mothers and daughters to 
whom It IS addressed. But more emphatically still we would advise the 
reading of the book by girls, because it is so eminently healthy in its tone, 
so rational in the views it upholds of the proper duties of young women,"— 
Spectator. 

Cassell, Fetter, Galpin & Co., Ludgate Hill, London. 

I [N.H. 982. 



THE LARGEST, CHEAPEST, AND BEST DICTIONARY 
OF COOKERY EVER PRODUCED. 

CHEAP EDITION. 1,280 pages, royal 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. 

Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery, illustrated 

throughout. Containing about Nine Thousand Recipes. 

" ' Cassell's Dictionar^^ of Cookery ' is one of the most thorough and com- 
prehensive works of the kind. To expatiate on its abundant contents would 
demand pages rather than paragraphs." — The Times. 

" It seems to us that this book is absolutely what it claims to be — that is, 
the largest and most complete collection of the kind ever produced in this 
countrj- ; an encyclopaedia, in fact, of the culinary art in all its branches, 
and a volume which we trust and believe will be fully appreciated in its 
results, as well as in its teaching. It is a dictionary which should be in 
everj- household, and studied by ever^' woman who recognises her true 
mission in the world." — Christian World. 

C as sell, Petter, Galpin (£• Co., Liidgate Hill, London. 



Uniform with " CASSELL'S DICTIONARY OF COOKERY." 
CHEAP EDITION. 1,280 pages, royal Bvo, cloth, 7s. 6d. 

Cassell's Domestic Dictionary. An Encyciopcedia 

for the Household, furnishing information on several thou- 
sand subjects relating to the ^Yants of Every-day Life. ^Yith 
numerous Illustrations. 

"_A book which claims the_ favour of the public for substantial merits. Its 
aim_ is to be useful, to contribute in some sort to the sum of human con- 
venience, and to provide for a want hitherto not adequately supplied. There 
are scores of books on domestic economy, more or less good in their way, 
but none which professes to be so comprehensive, so varied, and so complete 
as the work now before us. Though called a ' Domestic Dictionary,' the 
name conveys a very inadequate idea, not only of its object, but of what it 
may be fairly said to have accomplished."— The Times. 

"As a manual of ready reference for all household purposes this work 
has no rival." — The Queen. 

Cassell, Petter, Galpin cb Co. , Lndgate Hill, London. 



NEW AND REVISED EDITION. 
Complete in Four Vols., cloth, 6s. each. 
CaSSell's Household Guide to Every Department 
of Practical Life. Being a Complete Encyclopaedia of 
Domestic and -Social Economy. With Illustrations on 
nearly every page, and Coloured Plates. 

" A book for every household, and its possessors may dispense with many 
others on a smaller scale, because it is, as the title says, a complete Ency- 
clopedia OP Domestic and Social Economy."— T"/;^ Queen. 

" A vast encyclopaediaof knowledge of importance to everybody, andthe 
simplicity with which the various subjects are treated must commend it to 
all classes." — Liverpool Daily Post. 

Cassell, Fetter, Galphi & Co. , Liidgate Hill, London. 



Cloth, 3S. 6d. 

Choice Dishes at Small Cost. By a. g. payne, 

Author of " Common-sense Cookery," &c. 

This book will come as a revelation to the English matron and pro- 
fessional cook, for it places cookery in the light at once of a Science and an 
Art. It is the result of the author's own experience, and of information he 
has gathered from celebrated chefs. 

Cassell^ Fetter, Galpin & Co. , Ltidgate Hill, London. 
Stiff covers, is. ; cloth, is. 6d. 

Etiquette of Good Society. 

"A book which has reached its thirty-second thousand may fairly be 
considered a recognised authority. For popular and general use, * Etiquette 
of Good Society' is well adapted, seeing that few topics connected with 
ordinary etiquette and social customs are omitted. It covers the whole of 
our lives in all their varj-ing phases, and is as pleasantly written as it is 
instructive." — The Qzieen. 

Cassell, Fetter, Galpin & Co., Lndgate Hill, L.ondon. 



Third Edition. Price is. 6d. 

How Women may Earn a Living. By mercy 

Grogan. 

"In a lucid and concise manner are embodied a large number of sug- 
gestions in which ladies who have to depend upon their own exertions for 
their support could be helped."— Z>rtz'/j/ Telegraph. 

Cassell, Fetter, Galpin d: Co., Ludgatc Hill, London. 



New and Enlarged Edition, i,o88 pages, roj^al 8vo, price 21s. 

The Family Physician. a Manual of Domestic 
Medicine. By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons of the 
principal London Hospitals. 

The Family Physician ' is a book which ought to have a place in every 
household, and its contents should be pondered by the heads of families."-- 
The Court JoHrnal. 

"The vokime issued by Messrs. Cassell, Fetter, Galpin S: Co., under the 
appropriate title of 'The Family Physician,' is one which is likely to be of 
great and permanent use. ... It teaches its readers not only how to 
cure certam diseases according to general rules, but, what is much more im- 
portant, how to avoid them. The book is distinguished throughout by 
excellent sense and very clear writing." — Satic7-day Review. 

Cassell, Pettcr, Galpin d- Co., Ludgate Hill, London. 



Extra fcap. 8vo, cloth, 6s. 

The Ladles' Physician. a Guide for Women to 

the Treatment of their .Ailments. By a London Physician. 

"The statements are accurate, the opinions sound, and the advice 
judicious." — Medical Times. 

Cassell, Petter, Galpin <£• Co., Ltidgate Hill, London. 



Cheap Edition, stiff paper cover, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. 

A Handbook of Nursing for the Home and fo 
the Hospital. By Catherine J. Wood, Lady Superin- 
tendent of the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond 
Street. 

"The book is one of unusual excellence ; and we strongly recommend 
it to all who wish to be, and indeed to those who already are, thoroughly 
trained and educated nurses." — Medical Times. 

" This is a book which every mother of a family ought to have, as well as 
every nurse under training." — Guardian. 

" Incomparably tlae best book of its kind "—rN'onconformist. 
Cassell^ Petter, Galpin <£• Co., Ludgate Hill, London. 



A ^ELECTION V^OfA 

Cassell,Petter,Galpin&Co.'s Publications. 



ILLUSTRATED AND FINE-ART WORKS. 
The Magazine of Art. Vol. V, With about 400 

Illustrations by the first Artists of the day. A beautifully-executed 
Etching by G. P. Jacomb Hood forms the Frontispiece. Cloth gilt, 
gilt edges, i6s. The price of Vols. I., II., III. and IV. has been 
increased — Vols. I. and IV. to 21s. each. Vols. II. and III. to 15s. each. 

Picturesque Europe. Popular Edition. Vol. I., 

with 13 Exquisite Steel Plates, and about 200 Original Engravings by 
the best Artists. Cloth gilt, i8s. N.B. — The Original Edition, in 
Five Magnificent Volumes, royal 4to size, can still be obtained, price 
£2 2s. each. 

Picturesque America. Vol. I., with 12 exquisite 

Steel Plates and about 200 Original Wood Engravings. £2 2s. 

The Royal Shakspere. With Exquisite Steel Plates 

and Wood Engravings by Frank Dicksee, A.R.A., J. D. Watson, 
and other Artists. Vol. I., price 15s, 

Milton's Paradise Lost. Illustrated with 50 full- 
page Drawings by Gustave Dor6. With Notes and a Life of Milton 
by.the late Rev. Robert Vaughan, D.D. Neiu Edition, cloth gilt, 21s. 

The Changing Year. Being Poems and Pictures of 
Life and Nature. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 4to, cloth 
gilt, 7s. 6d. 

Character Sketches from Dickens. Six 

Large Drawings by Fred Barnard of Sidney Carton, Mr. Pickwick, 
Alfred Jingle, Little Dorrit, Mrs. Gamp, and Bill Sikes. In Portfolio, 
imperial 410, 5s. the set. 

Morocco : Its People and its Places. By 

Edmondo de Amicis. Translated by C. Rollin-Tilton. Cloth 
gilt, 7s. 6d._ 
Evangeline. Edition dc Luxe. With magnificent 
Original Illustrations by Frank Dicksee, A.R.A., beautifully repro- 
duced in Photogravure. The Work is printed on Whatman's hand- 
made paper, size i6i in. by 125 in., the Wood Engravings being on real 
China paper. *»* Further particidars, with price, d^c, may be 
obtained of any Bookseller. 

Familiar Garden Flowers, First and Second 

Series. By Shirley Hibberd. With Forty full-page Coloured 
Plates by F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., F.S.A., in each. 12s. 6d. each. 

Familiar Wild Flowers. First, Second, and 

Third Series. By F. E, Hulme, F.L.S. With 40 full-page Coloured 
Plates in each. Cloth gilt, 12s. 6d. each. 

Old and New Edinburgh (Cassell's). Vols. 

I. and II. now readj^, with nearly 200 Original Illustrations in each. 
Extra crown 4to, cloth, gs. each. 

Our Own Country. Vols. I., II., III., IV., and 

v., with upwards of 200 Original Illustrations and Steel Frontispiece in 
each. Extra crown 4to, cloth, 7s. 6d. each. 

Gleanings frorn Popular Authors. Vol. I. 

With Original Illustrations. Price gs. 
Cassell, Fetter, Galpin 6» Co. : London, Paris ^ New York. 

IQ 982 



A Selection from Cassell, Petter, Galpin & Co.'s Publications. 

{Continued.) 

BIOGRAPHY. TRAVEL, HISTORY, LITERATURE, &c. 
Wealth Creation. By Augustus Mongredien. 

Crown 8vo, cloth, price 55. 

A \A/'inier in India. By the Right Hon. W. E. 

Baxter, M.P. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, 5s. 
Oliver Cromvv^ell. A Historical Biography. By J. 
Allanson Picton, With Steel Portrait. Price 7s. 6d. 

The Life of the Rt. Hon. W. E. Gladstone. 

By G. Barnett Smith. Cheap Editiofi. With Portraits. 5s. 

England : Its People, Polity, and Pursuits. 

By T. H. S. EscoTT. Cheap Edition, 7s. 6d. 

Burnaby's Ride to Khiva. N'ew and Cheap 

Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d. People s Edition, 6d. 

Russia. By D. Mackenzie Wallace, M.A. Cheap 

Edition, in One Vol., los. 6d. 

Wood Magic : a Fable. By R. Jefferies, Author 

of "The Gamekeeper at Home," &c. Cheap Edition, One Vol., 6s. 

The History of the Year. A Complete Narrative 

of the Events of the Past Year. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s. 

Universal History, Cassell's Illustrated. 

Vol. I. Profusely Illustrated, 576 pages, 410, price 9s. 

The Encyclopaedic Dictionary. A New and 

Original Work of Reference to all the Words in the English Language, 
with a Full Account of their Origin, Meaning, Pronunciation, and Use. 
By Robert Hunter, M.A., F.G.S., &c. Three Divisional Vols, now 
ready, price los. 6d. each. 

Phrase and Fable, Dictionary of; giving the 

Derivation, Source, or Origin of Common Phrases, Allusions, and' 
Words that have a Tale to Tell. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Enlarged 
Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d. 

RELIGIOUS WORKS. 
The Early Days of Christianity, By the Rev. 

Canon Farrar, D.D., F. R.S. Two Vols., demy 8vo, 24s. 

The Life of Christ. By the Rev. Canon Farrar, D.D., 

F.R.S. Popular Edition, \n One Vol., cloth, 6s. Library Edition, 
Two Vols., cloth, 24s. ; morocco, £2 2s. Illustrated Edition, extra 
crown 4to, cloth gilt, 21s. ; morocco, £'i 2s. 

The Life and Work of St. Paul. By the Rev. 

Canon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S. Two Vols., 24s. ; morocco, £2 2s. 

The Child's Life of Christ. With several hundred 

Original Wood Engravings, extra crown 4to, elegantly bound, price 21s. 

An Old Testament Commentary for English 

Readers. By various Writers. Edited by the Right Rev. C. J. 
Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. Vol. I., price 
21S., contains the Pentateuch. 

A New Testament Commentary for English 

Readers. Edited by C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of 
Gloucester and Bristol. In Three Vols., 21s. each. 



Cassell, Petter, Galpin &^ Co. : London, Paris df New York. 



A Selection from Casseil, Petter, Galpin & Co.'s Publications. 

{Continued.) 

MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. 

A Year's Cookery. Giving Dishes for Breakfast, Lun- 
cheon, and Dinner for Ever>' Day in the Year. By Phillis Browne. 
Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d. 

Choice Dishes at Small Cost. Containing 

Original Recipes for Appetising and Economical Dishes. By A. G. 
Payne. 3s. 6d. 

Civil Service, Guide to Employment in the. 

New Edition, Revised and greatly Enlarged, 3s. 6d. 

Dingy House at Kensington, The. With Four 

full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, 5s. 
Dog, The. By Idstone. With Twelve Illustrations. 2s. 6d. 
EngUsh Literature, The Story of. By Anna 

BUCKLAND. Cloth, gilt, 5s. 

Etiquette of Good Society. Boards, is. ; cloth, 

IS. 6d. 

Golden Days. By Jeanie Hering. The Experiences 

of an English Girl's School Life in Germany. Cloth, gilt » dges, 2s. 6d. 

Jane Austen and her Works. By Sarah 

Tytler. With Steel Portrait and Steel Title. 53. 

Kennel Guide, The Praciieal. By Dr. Gordon 

Stables. With Illustrations. 192 pages, crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. 

Landed Interest and the Supply of Food. 

By Sir James Cairo, K.C.B., F.R. S. Enlarged Editiofi, 5s. 

Magic Flower-Pot, The, and Other Stories. 

By Edward Garrett. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 

Microscope, The, and some of the Wonders 

it Reveals. By the Rev. W. Houghton, M.A. is. 

North- West Passage by Land. By Viscount 

Milton and Dr. Cheadle. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; 
gilt edges, 3s. 6d. 

Notable Shipwrecks. By Uncle Hardy. Crown 

8vo, 320 pages, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. 

Nursing for the Home and for the Hospital. 

By Catherine J. Wood. Cheap Edition, is. 6d. ; cloth gilt, 2s. 

Peggy, and other Tales. By Florence Mont- 
gomery. 2S. 

What Girls can Do. A Book for Mothers and 
Daughters. By Phillis Browne. Cheap Editioti, 3s. 6d. 

The "Quiver" Library. All Illustrated, and bound 

in cloth gilt. Crown 8vo, each 3s. 6d. 



My Guardian. 
School Girls. 
Deepdale Vicarage. 
The Family Honour. 



In Duty Bound. 

The Half Sisters. 

Peggy Oglivie's Inheritance. 

Working to Win. 

Esther West. 



Casseil, Petter^ Galpin dr" Co. : London, Paris ^ New York. 



A Selection from Cassell, Patter, Galpin &. Co.'s Publications. 

( Continued. ) 

BOOKS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE. 

Bo -Peep. A Treasury for the Little Ones. Illustrated 
throughout with Original Illustrations. Boards, 2S. 6d. ; cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. 

Modern Explorers. By Thomas Frost. Illus- 
trated. Cloth, 5s. 
A Parcel of Children. By Olive Patch. With 

numerous Illustrations. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s. 

^A/i]d Animals and Birds. By Dr." Andrew 

Wilson, F.R.S.E. With Illustrations. 7s. 6d. 

A Cruise ici Chinese Waters. Being the Log of 

"The Fortuna." By Captain A. F. Ltndley. Illustrated. 5s. 

Cassell's Robinson Crusoe. With numerous 

Illustrations. 3s. 6d. 

Peter Parley's Annual. Illustrated with Coloured 

Plates, printed in Oil, and full-page Lithographs. Gilt edges, 55. 
Little Folks. Half- Yearly Volumes, each containing 
•nearly 500 Pi' tures. Boards, 3s. 6d. ; cloth gilt> 5s. each. 

" Little Folks " Painting Books, of which a 

quarter of a million copies have been sold. Illustrated throughout, is. 
each ; or cloth gilt. 2s. each. 



Little Folks" Crayon Book. 
Little Folks" Illuminating 
Book. 



Pictures to Paint. 

" Little Folks" Painting Book. 

Nature Painting Book. 



The World in Pictures, A Series of Gift-Books 

specially suitable for Sunday School Prizes. Illustrated throughout, 
and handsomely bound in cloth. 2s. 6d. each. 



The Eastern W nderland. 
Peeps into China. 
Glimpses of South America. 



Round Africa. 

The Land of Temples. 

The Isles of the Pacific. 



The Library of Wonders. A Series of Gift Books 

for Boys. In Volumes. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, 2s. 6d. each. 
All Illustrated throughout. 



Wonderful Adventures. 
Wonders of Animal Instinct. 
Wonders of Architecture. 
Wonderful Escapes. 



Wonders of Bodily Strength 

and Skill. 
Wonderful Balloon Ascents. 
Wonders of Water. 
Wonders of Acoustics. 



The Story of Captain Cook. With numerous 

Illustrations. 3s. 6d. 

At the South Pole. By the late W. H. G. Kingston. 

With numerous Illustrations. 3s. 6d. 

Soldier and Patriot. The Story of George Wash- 
ington. By F. M. Owen. With Map and Illustrations. 3s. 6d. 

Pictures of School Life and Boyhood. From 

the Best Authors. Edited by Percy Fitzgerald, M.A. 3s. 6d. 

«3r A Coviplete List 0/ Cass'e.i.i^, Petter, Galpin & Co.'s Children'' s 

Books will be Jor-aiarded post free 011 application. 

CASSELL, PETTER, GALPIN & CO.'S Complete Cata- 
logue, containing a List of Several Hundred Volumes, including 
Bibles and Religious Works, Fine-Art Volumes, Children's Books, 
Dictionaries, Educational Works, History, Natural History, Household 
and Domestic Treatises, Handbooks and Guides, Science, Travels, &c., 
together with a Synopsis of their numerous Illustrated Serial Publica- 
tions, sent post free on application to Cassell, Petter, Galpin & 
Co., Ludgate Hill, London. *^ 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 

IIIIIIIIIB 

3 9999 05987 653 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



