LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

Shelf. yEZbZ 



UNITED STATES OP AMERICA. 



FIRST PRINCIPLES 



OF 



HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT 



AND 



COOKERY. 



^ ^txt'Mook for Scljoote ants Jamilieis, 



BY/ 



MARIA PARLOA. 



NEW AND ENLARGED EDITION. 



,r.li 



c^ 



1 



'fl 



V- 




' coir' V Hi. 



OCT 9 1. 



K"' /^ 



^ 



N^op-w. M 



BOSTON 

HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN AND COMPANY 

New York: 11 East Seventeenth Street 

1882 



/,p' 



9 



XT' 



Copyvieht, iS/g and 1882, 
By MARIA PARLOA. 

All rights reserved. 



RIVERSIDE, CAMBRIDGB: 

5TKREOTYPKD AND PRINTED DY 

H. O. HOUGHTON AND COMPANY. 




PREFACE. 



The object of this little volume is to spread a 
knowledge of the common things of every-day life 
among all the people. Physicians, and others qualiJ 
fied to give an opinion, testify that the foundation 
for disease, intemperance, and crime is nearly always 
impure air and water, food improperly cooked, or 
uncleanly and disorderly homes. The author has 
long had a desire to help remedy these evils, and 
while studying the South Kensington, and the Board 
Schools in London, in 1878, was convinced that the 
English people had solved the question as to how and 
where the reform should begin. 

In the city of London there are t\yenty-one practice, 
kitchens, where girls of eleven years of age and up- 
ward are sent for practice lessons in the preparation 
of the plainest dishes. Before these lessons, how- 
ever, they study a manual of the composition of foodj. 
and the principles underlying its preparation. They 
also learn the simplest rules for the care of the body 



iv PREFACE. 

and dwelling. The schools have been in successful 
operation for several years, and have done a wonder- 
ful amount of good. The same method is followed 
with marked effect in the manufacturing and mining 
districts. 

After seeing all this, the determination was taken 
to write a book that could be used in the schools and 
families of America with like beneficial results. In 
this work the aim has been to state clearly the causes 
of disease and the prevention of the same through 
sanitary laws ; the order of household work ; the com- 
position and preparation of food, with sick-room cook 
ery ; and to give a few hints on the care of the sick. 
In treating subjects of such importance, it has been 
difficult to decide what to omit, and yet make the 
work complete ; but the kind reception of the Apple- 
dore Cook-Book and the author's New Cook-Book 
leads to the hope that this volume may, too, find favor 
with the public. 

The additional receipts that appear in the last part 
of the book were chiefly suggested by experience in 
teaching classes of working women, and are designed 
especially to benefit those people to whom economy 
in cooking is a necessity. 




NOTE TO THE TEACHER. 



Six dishes are all that can be cooked in a lesson. 
That the pupils might be able to prepare a variety of 
food in their own homes, more than that number has 
been given. 

The teacher will use her judgment in selecting 
from each lesson. 




CONTENTS. 

♦ 

HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 

CHAPTER I. 
The Air we breathe i 

CHAPTER II. 
The House we live in . . . .5 

CHAPTER III. 
The Water we use S 

CHAPTER IV. 

House Work 14 

General Work. — Washing, Starching, and Ironing. — 
Fires. — Lamps. 

CHAPTER V. 

The Human Body . 26 

Analogies of the Steam-Engine and the Living Body. 
— Composition of the Human Body. — Elements of 
the Human Body. 



viil CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER VI. 



Physiological and Chemical Classification of 
Food 31 

Albuminous Matters. — Meat. — Milk. — Eggs. 

CHAPTER Vn. 

Fish 38 

Boiling, Broiling, Frying. — Baking, Salting. — Lobsters. 

— Oysters. 

CHAPTER VHI. 

Vegetables 41 

Potatoes. — Turnips. — Squash. — Beets. — Cab- 
bage. — Onions. — Sweet Potatoes. — Tomatoes. — 
Pease. — Beans. — Carrots. — Parsnips. — Salads. 

CHAPTER IX. 

Fruits 45 

Apples^ I'^igs, Dates, Bananas. 

CHAPTER X. 

The Bread we eat 46 

Wheat, New and Old Process. — Graham. — Indian 
Corn. — Oatmeal. — Rye. — Rice. — Pearled Barley. 

— Buckwheat. — Bread Making. — How Bread 
changes in the Baking. — Leaven. — Salt-Rising 
Bread. — Aerated Bread. — Baking Powders. 

CHAPTER XL 

The Condiments, Spices, and Flavors we use . 56 
Condiments (Salt, Pepper, Mustard). — Spices (Gin- 
ger, Nutmeg, Cinnamon, Clove, Mace, Allspice). — 
Flavors (Lemon, Orange, Vanilla, Bitter Almond). 



CONTENTS. IX 



CHAPTER XII. 

Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, Etc 6i 

Tea. — Coffee. — Boiled Coffee. — Filtered Coffee.— 
Steamed Coffee. — Cocoa. — Chocolate. 



COOKERY. 

FIRST LESSON. 

Bread and Yeast 67 

Hop Yeast. — Yeast Bread. — Hints on Bread Making. 
— Graham Bread. 

SECOND LESSON. 

Beef Stew. — Dumplings. — Roast Meat. — Broiling. — 
Boiled Potatoes. — Graham Muffins. — Bread Pudding. 

— Cream Sauce . . v . . . . . . 74 

THIRD LESSON. 

Pot-au-Feu. — Baked Fish. — Tomato Soup. — Potato 
Soup. — Baked Indian Pudding 81 

FOURTH LESSON. 

Meat Hash. — Fish Balls. — Fish Hash. — Oatmeal 
Mush. — Hominy, — Minute Pudding. — Vinegar Sauce. 

— Brown Bread 85 

FIFTH LESSON. 

Fish Chowder. — Beef Olives. — Veal Olives. — Boiled 
Rice Pudding. — Baked Rice Pudding. — Apple Dowdy. 

— Lemon Sauce . . 89 



CONTENTS. 



SIXTH LESSON. 

Soft Molasses Gingerbread. — Sponge-Cake. — Cieam 
Pies. — Filling for Cream Pies. — Washington Pies. 

— Whitpot Pudding. — Vegetables. — Time-Table for 
Cooking Vegetables 94 

SEVENTH LESSON. 

Salads. — French Salad Dressing. — Boiled Salad 
Dressing. — Vegetable Salad. — Potato Salad. — 
Lettuce Salad. — Rich Salad Dressing. — Lobster 
Salad. — Chicken Salad. — Baked Beans. — Stewed 
Beans 98 

EIGHTH LESSON. 
Poultry 103 

To clean Poultry. — Roast Turkey. — Roast Chicken. 

— Roast Goose. — Roast Duck. — Roast Partridges. 

— Roast Grouse. — Roast Pigeons. — Small Birds. 

NINTH LESSON. 

Sauces 107 

Drawn Butter. — Egg Sauce. — Oyster Sauce. — Cel- 
ery Sauce. — Caper Sauce. -r- Mint Sauce. — Cream 
Sauce. — Bread Sauce for Game. — Tomato Sauce. 

— Hollandaise Sauce. — Milk Sauce for Fish. — Ap- 
ple Sauce. — Baked Pears. — Stewed Prunes. — Cod- 
dled Apples. — Cranberry .Sauce. 

TENTH LESSON. 

Omelets. — Quaker Omelet. — Oyster Stew. — Oyster 
Soup. — Scalloped Oysters. — Fried Oysters. — Broiled 
Oysters. — Macaroni Boiled. — Milk Toast. — Baked 
Custard. — Steamed Custard 112 



CONTENl^. XI 

ELEVENTH LESSON. 

SiCK-RooM Cookery ii6 

Beef Tea. — Sack Posset — Chioken Broth. — Oat- 
meal Gruel. — Indian Meal Gruel. — Plum Porridge. 
Corn Tea. — Wine Whey. — Vinegar Whey. — Sour 
Milk Whey. 

TWELFTH LESSON. 

SiCK-RooM Cookery. — {Co7itinued.) .... 121 
Beefsteak. — Mutton or Lamb Chop. — Cream Toast. 

— Rice Coffee. — Flour Gruel. — Custard. — Eggnog. 

— A Gqod Drink for the Lungs. — Other Drinks. — 
Lemonade. — Cure for Hoarseness. — Burns. — Un- 
failing Cure for Constipation. 

MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES. 
Remarks on. Digestion 125 

ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 

Soups and Stews. — Pea Soup. — Bean Soup. — Onion 
Soup. — Shin of Beef Soup. — Vegetable Soup. — Clam 
Soup. — Clam Chowder. — Salt Fish Chowder. — Po- 
tato Chowder. — Chicken Chowder. — Tomato Chow- 
der. — Parsnip Stew with Dumplings. — Barley Stew. 
— Irish Stew. — Mutton Stew. — Corned Beef Stew. — 
Sausage Stew. — Veal Stew. — Fish Stew. — Vegetable 
Stew. — Stewed Beef. — Braised Beefsteak. — Veal Pot 
Pie. — Fricassee of Veal, with Biscuit. — Fricassee of 
Cold Meat, with Baked Dumplings. — Rolled Flank of 
Beef. — Beef's Heart. — Sheep's Hearts. — Kidneys. — 
Baked Liver. — Fried Liver. — Boiled Fish. — Fried 
Fish. — Broiled Fish. — Salt Fish in Cream. — Salt Fish 
with Pork. — Macaroni Pie. — Warming Cold Meats. — 
Cottager's Pie. — Warming Cold Fish. — Cold Pota- 



3^i CONTENTS. 

toes. — Vegetable Hash. — Cold Vegetables. — Steamed 
Rice. — Dinner Apple Sauce. — Rhubarb Sauce. — 
Brown Betty Pudding. — Troy Pudding. — Huckleberry 
Pudding. — Suet Indian Pudding. — Batter Pudding. — 
Baked Tapioca Pudding. — Boiled Tapioca Pudding. — 
Oatmeal Pudding. — Hominy Pudding. — Corn-starch 
Pudding. — Hot Farina Pudding. — Cold Farina Pud- 
ding. — Gingerbread Pudding. — Rice and Apple Pud- 
ding. — Steamed Fruit Pudding. — Baked Indian Pud- 
ding. — Snow Pudding. — Sunday Pudding. — Baked 
Rice Pudding. — Hasty Pudding. — Blanc-Mange. — 
Cold Sauce. — Molasses Sauce. — Plain Pie Crust. — 
Apple Pie. — Rhode Island Pie. — Rhubarb Pie. — 
Lemon Pie. — Custard Pie. — Squash Pie. — Doughnuts. 

— Molasses Cookies. — Plain Sugar Cookies. — Suet 
Cake. — Spice Cake. — Poverty Cake. — Spice Bread. 

— Swedish Bread. — Pancakes. — Spider Corn-Cake. — 
Biscuit. — Steamed Indian Bread 130 

Index 173 





FIRST PRINCIPLES 

OF 

HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 



CHAPTER I. 
THE AIR WE BREATHE. 

1. The earth is surrounded by an atmosphere of 
ah-, the height of which is about forty-five miles. We 
could not live a moment without this air, for we take 
it into our bodies with every breath we draw. It is a 
mixture of several kinds of gases, four of which are 
necessary to its composition. 

2. Two of the four elements form nearly its entire 
bulk ; these are oxygen and nitrogen, one fifth being 
oxygen and nearly four fifths nitrogen. The other 
two elements are carbonic acid and watery vapor. 

3. Oxygen comprises one fifth of the air, three 
fourths of all animal bodies, eight ninths of the water 
and about one half of the crust of the earth, 

4. It has neither taste nor smell, but it keeps the air 
pure and healthy, and is the chief supporter of animal 
life. Fires and lights burn only because of oxygen. 

5. After a hall or lecture room has been occupied 
for any length of time, if the ventilation is not good 

X 



2 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

the lights will begin to burn dimly, and the people 
will begin to feel drowsy and oppressed. But if the 
windows are opened, the pure air filled with oxygen 
rushes in, and the poisoned air filled with carbonic 
acid gas rushes out. The people begin to breathe 
easier and feel better, and the lamps burn brighter. 

6. In breathing we take air into our lungs ; there 
the blood absorbs the oxygen and carries it through 
the body, where it burns up all the waste tissue, and 
so keeps our bodies warm, strong, and healthy. 

7. It is oxygen which makes fruit and vegetables 
decay, and meat and fish " spoil." For this reason, 
when we wish to keep any of those things for any 
length of time, we make them boiling hot, to free 
them from the oxygen,. and then seal them in a jar 
so tight that no air can enter. If kept perfectly free 
from this gas they will keep for years. 

8. You will ask what is the use of nitrogen in the 
air ? The nitrogen dilutes the air. If the air were 
undiluted oxygen, animal and vegetable life would 
burn out too rapidly. " A mixture of the fiery oxy- 
gen and the inert nitrogen gives us the golden mean. 
The oxygen now quietly burns the fuel in our stoves 
and keeps us warm ; combines with the oil in our 
lamps and gives us light ; corrodes our bodies and 
gives us strength ; cleanses the air and keeps it fresh 
and invigorating ; sweetens foul water and makes it 
wholesome ; works all around us and within us a con- 
stant miracle, yet with ^ch delicacy and quietness 
we never perceive or think of it until we see it with 
the eye of science." (Steele.) 

9. Carbonic Acid. — Carbonic acid, like oxygen 



THE AIR WE BREATHE. 3 

and nitrogen, is without color, but it has a sh'ght odor 
and a sour taste. By mixing two parts cream of tar- 
tar and one of soda, and wetting them, you can obtain 
carbonic acid. When soda is added to vinegar, sour 
milk, lemon juice, or any liquid acid, carbonic acid is 
produced. 

10. When bread is risen by yeast, carbonic acid is 
produced. 

11. It is carbonic acid which gives soda water its 
peculiar taste, and also causes it to foam. 

12. Carbonic acid is a poison to animals if they 
breathe in much of it, but it is the food of plant life, 
just the same as oxygen is the food of animal life, 
and vegetation could no more live without it than we 
could without the oxygen. This is one of the reasons 
why people are so much healthier in the country than 
they are in the city. The leaves of plants which are 
constantly in the sunlight and are their lungs, breathe 
in carbonic acid and breathe out oxygen. Thus, we 
see, vegetation is in great part fed with a gas which 
is poisonous to animal life. We are breathing in 
oxygen and breathing out carbonic aciS all the time. 

13. Watery Vapor. -^ By watery vapor is meant 
the steam, whether visible or not, which rises from 
the surface of water when exposed to the air. 

1 4. ^f it were not for this vapor, vegetation would 
dry up, and animal life would soon perish also. 

15. Besides the vapor which comes from water, 
there is the animal vapor which we throw out from 
our lungs and the pores of the skin. This is very im- 
pure, and causes much disease. 

16. Now that we know what the great bulk of the 



4 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

air is composed of, and what is good for vegetation 
and what for animal life, we want to know how we 
can have pure air at all times. 

17. When we are out-of-doors we nearly always 
have pure air, except it be in very crowded streets \ 
so in the houses where we work and mostly live we 
must consider ventilation, or letting out the bad air 
and letting in the good air. 





CHAPTER II. 

THE HOUSE WE LIVE IN. 

1. When possible, the house we live in should 
have the sunshine on every side of it some part of the 
day. Trees should not be so near as to shade it from 
the sun. Windows should open from top and bottom. 
On the top of a hill it is much more healthy than at 
the sides or bottom. 

2. If there is a cellar under the house, great care 
must be taken that it is well ventilated, and kept per- 
fectly clean and free from all decaying vegetation. If 
the house is built without a cellar, it should be raised 
from the ground at least two or three feet, that a cur- 
rent of air may pass freely under. This is the general 
mode of building in southern countries. In cold, 
northern climates a cellar is necessary, both to keep 
the house warm, and that there shall be a place to 
keep vegetables and fruit from freezing during the 
winter months. 

3. There should be a supply of fresh air coming 
through a window or open fire-place in every room all 
the time, night and day. This is the only way by which 
the air in a room can be kept perfectly pure. 

4. A full-grown person takes about one pound of 
air into his lungs every hour, so it would not take 
'ong to use up all the pure air in a room without ven- 



6 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

tilation, as in a room twelve feet square and eight 
feet high the air will weigh but ninety pounds ! Be- 
sides, every time a breath is taken and the oxygen 
breathed, carbonic acid is also thrown off; animal va- 
pors, too, from lungs and skin make the air impure. 
The fire burning in a close stove, the lamp or gas 
burning, all use up the oxygen. 

5. In the summer, during the day, there is little 
trouble about ventilation, because it is pleasant to 
have windows and doors open. But at night there 
are people who sleep with closed windows because 
they don't like to breathe night air, just as if they 
could breathe anything else at night. After a person 
becomes accustomed to sleeping with open windows, 
there is never danger of taking cold, winter or sum- 
mer. * 

6. One safe way, where persons are very sensitive 
to cold, is to have a board the exact width of the win- 
dow, and about three or four inches deep ; raise the 
lower sash and place this under it, and there will be 
an upward current of air which will be sufficient to 
purify the room, while no draught will be felt. 

7. Every morning open the windows of the sleeping 
rooms, strip the beds, spreading the clothes over the 
chairs, and let them air at least an hour. There is 
no greater purifier than the sun. Bed-clothes and 
mattresses should be well sunned at least once a 
week. 

8. In the kitchen, where cooking and other work 
is being done, the window should always be dropped 
from the top. Where wash-bowls are set in sleeping 
rooms, great care should be taken that the waste-pipe 



THE HOUSE WE LIVE lAT. J 

is kept closed when not being used, as poisonous 
gases often enter a room in that way, brought from 
the sewers, causing many diseases. 

9. A bed that has been made up a week or more is 
not fit to sleep in, as moisture gathers, which often 
proves fatal to persons sleeping in one. 

10. If carpets are used on the floors, far better is 
it that the colors should fade from letting the sunlight 
in upon them, than the bright hues remain with the 
sunshine shut out. Remember, always, that the sun- 
shine is one of God's best gifts to use, and that it is 
sinful to shut it out of our houses for the sake of a 
carpet or curtains. 

11. Flowers brighten, cheer, refine, and make our 
homes healthful ; they grow particularly well in the 
kitchen, where the heat is even and the air moist 
from the steam, and here the sun is seldom shut out. 




>#:*» 



CHAPTER III. 
THE WATER WE USE. 

1. The water we use is of as great importance as 
the air we breathe. It forms three fourths of the sur- 
face of the earth, and about three fourths the weight 
of Uving animals and vegetables. 

2. Pure water is composed of oxygen and hydro- 
gen, eight ninths of its weight being oxygen, and one 
ninth hydrogen. Hydrogen, like oxygen, has, when 
a pure gas, neither color, taste, nor smell. 

3. In the waters of our wells and rivers there are 
also vegetable, animal, and mineral substances, beside 
the gases of the air. The animal and vegetable sub- 
stances are considered unhealthy by nearly all chem- 
ists and physicians, but there is a great difference of 
opinion in regard to the mineral. The gases from 
the air give the water a bright, pleasant taste. 

4. The purest water we have is rain water collected 
m the country ; after a shower has cleared the air and 
washed off the roofs of the houses, it is run into cis- 
terns, where sometimes it is filtered. The cisterns 
should always be exposed to pure air, as the air not 
only gives flavor to the water, but oxygen, which puri- 
fies it by burning up all decaying animal and vege- 
table matter. Cisterns are divided into two parts ; the 
one where the water first enters being divided from 



THE WATER WE USE. 9 

the other by a fiher, which is made of iron, sponge, 
charcoal, and sand, purifying the water for use. 

5. In large towns and cities we do not have wells, 
because there would not be water enough for all the 
people, and also the water woald be very bad, causing 
all kinds of dreadful diseases.. 

6. There are water companies who bring water 
through pipes from rivers and lakes in the country 
into reservoirs in towns and cities. In the reservoirs 
it is strained or filtered, and exposed to the air ; and 
■jf it is located on a high hill, when it is let into pipes 
it will run to the upper stories of houses not higher 
than the reservoir. 

7. It is the wells and cisterns in the country that 
we want to know m.ost about, as we have no control 
of the water used in large towns or cities. 

8. Well Water. — We dig a deep hole in the 
ground and it fills with water. In some places we 
must dig very deep indeed before we reach water, 
which makes the well cost much money. But it is 
better to pay a good deal of money for a deep well 
where the water is pure, than to pay doctors for trying 
to cure us of sickness caused by drinking water from 
a shallow well which gathers impurities from the soil. 

9. Where does the water that flows into the wells 
come from ? You will answer, Out of the earth. Yes, 
but how does it get into the earth ? You will notice 
tlrat when there has been no rain for a long time the 
water in the wells gets very low, and some wells grow 
entirely dry. The wells that dry first are always the 
shallow ones, and the last ones are the deep ones. 
Thus we see that the rain waters the earth, and filters 



10 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

•nto the wells. It is just like pouring a liquid which 
we wish to make clear into a sieve. •!£ the sieve is 
coarse, the liquid is not perfectly clear; if we keep 
on pouring it through one sieve after another, and 
each sieve be finer than the last, we will soon have 
it nearly pure ; if there is anything dissolved in it, of 
course that will go through the finest sieve. Now 
the deeper the well the purer the water, because the 
earth is like the sieves, which keep back all the un- 
dissolved impurities. In light sandy soils the water 
filters through very rapidly, and carries with it much 
impure matter. If the well is near the house, and 
there are soap-suds or slops, etc., thrown on the 
ground near it, the rain will carry those impure wash- 
ings through the earth into the well water. Water 
from a well so sitiiated is like slow poison, caus- 
ing many diseases, the most common being fevers. 
Many people sicken and die from drinking it. 
Thoughtless people often" do their washing near their 
well, throwing the dirty water upon the ground ; or 
they have no sink-drain, so all the waste water is 
thrown out of doors and windows, to be finally washed 
into their well, keeping it poisonous all the time, 
while they wonder what makes so much sickness in 
their family. 

10. We can see that the rain that falls within a 
few feet of the well would not be enough to keep the 
well full of water, but that it must come from some 
distance, so manure heaps should be at a great dis- 
tance to prevent them from rendering the well foul. 

11. Another source of poisoning is the leaves which 
tall into the water and decay in the well. It is best 



THE WATER WE USE. \\ 

to build a roof over the top, keeping it open at the 
sides for the .air to enter, while the leaves are kept 
from blowing in. If what I have said about wells 
will make plain to thousands of people who are daily 
drinking poisoned water the necessity of keeping the 
well pure, that they may keep their health, I shalV 
feel well repaid for the labor of writing this little 
book. 

12. Many people living in the country are not rich 
enough to have a good system of drainage, and many 
can have none at all. To these the trees and plants 
do good service, vegetation using for its food what 
would otherwise serve to poison animal life. 

13. A good plan is to have a large tub or barrc 
placed on a strong wheelbarrow and set in a conven- 
ient place where the sun does not shine, and throw 
into this all slops, which can be easily carried to grove 
or orchard for watering the trees, and enriching the 
soil. 

14. Remember that you are poisoning people slow- 
ly, but as surely, every time you throsv dirty water 
near a well, as if you deliberately put arsenic into it. 

15. The usual criterion of pure water is that it 
shall be " perfectly free from color, taste, or smell ; 
be cool, soft, bright, well aerated, and entirely free 
from all deposit." This standard is a good general 
one, but will not always hold true. 

16. The city of Savannah, Georgia, is supplied 
from the Savannah River, which flows through a 
great deal of yellow clay country, and the water, as 
we found it on the hotel tables, retained its muddy, 
dark appearance. The water that you get at hotels 



1 2 HO USEHOLD MANA CEMENT AND COOKE R Y. 

and restaurants in Paris, France, is perfectly clear, 
bright, and pleasant to the taste, but people fear to 
drink it. Where there is any doubt of the purity of 
the water, it is always safest to boil it before drink- 
ing, because this destroys the vegetable and animal 
life it may contain ; and if it holds mineral matter, 
boiling causes that to fall to the bottom of the ves- 
sel, allowing the pure water to be poured off. But 
in boiling you lose the gases, so the water is taste- 
less and flat. 

17. Hard and Soft Water. — Soft water is con- 
sidered by many as the most healthful; Tea and cof- 
fee made with soft water are much stronger and better 
flavored. Vegetables and meats boil more quickly 
and are more tender when boiled in soft water. 
Clothes wash more easily and are whiter, needing 
less soap and labor to cleanse them, when using soft 
water. 

18. In using water for washing, cleansing, cooking, 
therefore, soft water is the best. Some physicians 
and chemists claim that hard water is very unhealthy, 
while others think that persons drinking it have 
stronger muscles. The French authorities supply 
the city of Paris with hard water, preferring it to soft, 
because they found that more conscripts from the 
soft-water districts are rejected for lack of muscle 
than from the hard-water districts. 

19. Water that has minerals dissolved in it, how- 
ever, affects different people differently. The water 
filtering through the earth dissolves some of the min- 
erals over which it flows, the most common of which 
are lime, salt, magnesia. Where there is a great deal 



THE WATER WE USE. 



13 



of lime in the water it curdles the soap, produces a 
fur on the kettles, and clings to the clothes boiling in 
it, giving them a dark, dingy look. 

20. Washing soda and borax are used to soften the 
water for washing and cleansing, when too hard. 




^m 




^^38 


^M 


^ 


^^ 




^^^^^^ 


^^ 


^m 



CHAPTER IV. 
HOUSE WORK. 

1. We know now that to be perfectly healthy our 
houses must be kept entirely clean, and have plenty 
of fresh air and sunlight. The first thing in the morn- 
ing, then, is to open the windows wide in the sleeping 
rooms, and take all the clothes from the beds, spread- 
ing them upon chairs, where the air can pass through 
them freely and carry off the impurities which were 
thrown out from the body through the pores of the 
skin during the night. The bed and bedding should 
be aired not less than one hour. 

2. While the rooms are being purified by fresh air, 
the breakfast should be prepared, the table set, the 
kitchen and sitting-room put in order. 

3. First build your kitchen fire, brush off and 
blacken the stove or range ; then sweep the floor 
and dust the room. Rinse out the tea-kettle, fill with 
fresh water, and put upon the stove. Set the break- 
fast plates into the heater. Take out the ashes and 
sift them. 

4. Now set the table, while the breakfast is being 
cooked. Have ever} thing clean, hot, and on time. 

5. After breakfast, wash the dishes in clean hot 
soap and water, first washing the glass, which wipe 
perfectly dry with a clean soft towel ; then the silver, 



HOUSE WORK. 15 

next the cups, saucers, pitchers ; then the plates and 
other china dishes. All but the glass and silver 
ware should be rinsed in clean hot water. As soon 
as the dishes are finished and put away, wash the 
cooking dishes, being as careful to have clean water 
and towels for them, as for the china, and washing, 
rinsing, and wiping them as carefully. The tins and 
iron pans should be wiped with a dry towel, and then 
put on the hearth to dr}'- perfectly, as they rust very 
easily and quickly. Pots, kettles, and fry pans should 
be put into the pan of hot water, and the outsides 
should be washed as carefully as the insides. Unless 
the water is very hard, there is no need of putting soda 
into the water for cleaning kitchen dishes, any more 
than for glass or silver. The wire dish-cloth helps 
wonderfully in cleaning cooking dishes, and does not 
scratch them. Using very coarse sand to scour with 
scratches the tin off in places, and then the dishes 
soon begin to rust. Wood ashes, for this reason, is 
better than sand, and sapolio, a soap which comes 
for cleaning, is better than either. 

6. The dish towels should be washed and thor- 
oughly rinsed every day, and when it is possible dried 
in the open air. The habit of drying the dish-water 
into the towel is a very filthy one. On wash days, a 
new set of towels should be taken for the week, and 
those that have been used should have a thorough 
washing and scalding. Let them, if possible, remain 
on the line over night. 

7. When steel knives are used, they should be 
cleaned after every meal; first by washing perfectly 
clean, then by placing on a board perfectly flat and 



f 6 HO USE HOLD MA NA CEMENT AND COOKER V. 

rubbing with fine Bristol brick dust wet with water, 
applied with a large cork, until the blades are per- 
fectly bright. Now wash again in clean warm water, 
and wipe dry. The handles of the knives should 
never be put into the water. 

8. When all the dishes are washed, every part of 
the sink should be thoroughly washed with plenty of 
hot water and soap with a cloth kept for that purpose ; 
then rinse with hot water. So necessary for clean- 
liness is hot water, that a good housekeeper should 
keep the kettle or tank always well filled, that it may 
be ready for use. 

9. Rule for Keeping Hot Water. — Every time 
you take water from the kettle fill with cold. 

10. Now the dishes are all washed and put away, 
and everything is clean in the kitchen, the dining- 
room must be swept, dusted, and put in order. As 
soon as breakfast was over, the windows of this room 
should have been opened to air while the kitchen work 
was being done. After sweeping it, leave the dust 
time to settle, while the chamber w^ork is being done. 

11. Chamber Work. — The first thing to do after 
turning the mattresses and making the bed is to empty 
the slops, and with clean hot water wash out the 
glasses, pitchers, and bowls, and then the slop pans. 
Have separate cloths for the bowls, pitchers, etc., and 
the slop jars, and never use the toilet towels for this 
purpose. Now dust the room, put things in place, 
and, if in summer, close the blinds, and the room is 
finished. 

12. Except upon sweeping days, which should be 
once a week, this is about the usual work for a sleep- 



HOUSE WORK. 17 

ing-room. All the rooms and halls should be dusted 
every day. Such rooms as are used by many people 
during the day should be thoroughly swept each 
morning. 

13. The dining-room must next be dusted and 
closed. The reason why the dishes must be washed 
and the kitchen put in order first is that they wash 
more easily than if the food has time to harden on 
them, so time and labor are saved. Then if dishes 
and food are allowed to stand upon the tables they 
collect flies, and food left in the hot kitchen dries or 
spoils. This order of doing the work gives the beds 
time to air and the rooms to be purified. 

14. To wash Floors and Tables. — All wood 
has what is cal]ed the " grain of the wood." It runs 
up and down the board, and not across it. To wash 
plain wood work, then, you must rub the cloth or brush 
up and down the board, not across. Too much soap 
makes white pine boards yellow. Have clean, coarse 
cloths, perfectly free from grease, and plenty of hot 
suds; also a scrubbing-brush. First wash the table 
with a cloth, then dip the brush into the hot suds 
and rub with the grain of the wood j when you have 
thoroughly scrubbed it, wash off with the cloth, wiping 
off all the soapy water, then wash off with clean hot 
water, and wipe very dry. Wash white floors in the 
same manner. Floors should be washed only on 
bright days. Bedroom floors should be washed early 
in the day, as it is very dangerous to sleep in a damp * 
room. 

15. The cellar must be looked after every few days 
that nothing be left to decay or spoil there. Much 



1 8 HO USE HOLD MAN A GEMENT AND COOKER Y. 

sickness comes from cellars that are not well aired, 
and where old vegetables are allowed to decay. No 
poison in the air is more deadly than that from decay- 
ing vegetation. In the autumn many fevers arise from 
the poisoned air caused by the dying plants and fall- 
ing leaves. 

WASHING. 

1. The first days of the week are always best for 
washing, because the clothing is then washed nearly 
as soon as changed, and so more easily, as the dirt 
does not have time to harden in them. Also, be- 
cause dirty clothes are very unhealthy to have in the 
house ; and, again, it is the time set apart for this 
work in nearly all families, and therefore people are 
less liable to interrupt on " wash-day ; " lastly, it is 
best to have the work planned for each day, and then 
it will be sure to get done in time. 

2. For washing you must have plenty of water and 
soap, and if the water is hard add a little washing 
soda or borax. 

3. Look the clothes over carefully, putting the clean- 
e'st by themselves to be washed first. Have two tubs, 
which about half fill with warm water in which has 
been dissolved soap enough to make a good suds 
(hard water will take more than soft). Into one tub 
put the cleanest articles, having the most soiled at the 
bottom ; into the other tub put the rest of the clothes, 
always remembering to have the most soiled at the 
bottom of the tub. Have a third tub of soap suds, 
hot as you can bear your hands in it. Shake all the 
dust and lint out of the flannels, putting the cleanest 
white ones into the hot suds, and wash very carefully, 



HOUSE WORK. 19 

squeezing and washing them through the water again 
and again. When clean put them into a pail of clear 
hot water and rinse very thoroughly. Wring dry, 
shake out well, and hang in the sun to dry. Flannels 
washed in this way will not shrink or harden. When 
nearly dry they should be taken in, folded carefully, 
and rolled up in a damp cloth so that they shall iron 
smoothly. 

4. For the white clothes, half fill the tub in which 
the flannels had been rubbed with clean warm water. 
Now begin with the cleanest articles and wash them 
carefully ; wring them out and put into the tub of warm 
water ; rinse out of this, and put soap on the most 
soiled parts, which in under-clothes are the bands, 
sleeves, and waists. Place all in the boiler, with cold 
water enough to cover them, and let them come to a 
boil ; then take them up and put them in a tub of 
clean cold water, rinse them thoroughly in this water, 
then rinse again in warm water which has been slightly 
blued, wring very dry from this, and hang out. Before 
being taken from the lines they should be entirely 
dry. Wash all of the clothes in this manner, having a 
basket full ready as fast as each boiler full is scalded. 
Boiling does not improve the clothes. If there are 
fruit stains on the table-cloths or napkins, lay the - 
stained part over a bowl and pour boiling water 
through the stain until it disappears. Ink stains will 
nearly always come out if the article washed is rubbed 
out in cold water while the stain is fresh. 

5. Never use soap on any stain first. Machine oil 
is taken out of cloth by rubbing a little lard or butter 
on the spot, and washing in warm water with a little 
soap. 



20 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY 

6. Iron Rust. — Spread the garment in the sun, 
and cover the iron spot thickly with salt ; then wet 
with juice of lemon. If the sun is bright, the stain 
will disappear in a few hours. 

7. To wash lace or curtains that will bear but little 
rubbing, take one table-spoonful of borax to two gal- 
lons of warm water, and soap enough to make a strong 
suds. Soak the curtains in this over night, and in the 
morning add a little hot water, washing them very 
carefully with the hands. Next put them in another 
tub of strong, warm, clean suds, and wash out of that 
in the same manner. If after rubbing the water looks 
very dark, they wdll need to be rubbed through still 
another tub of warm suds. Then scald and rinse as 
you would other white clothes. Remember that cur- 
tains are full of dust and smoke, — so need to have a 
great deal of water used to cleanse them, but very 
gentle rubbing. There are less fibres in lace to take 
up the starch, so it must be dried before starching, 
unlike cotton or linen articles, and the starch must be 
boiled thick, being quite hot when used. Never iron 
lace curtains. Place a mattress in a clean spot which 
is exposed to the sun ; on this pin firml}?^ and smootMy 
a sheet ; then upon this pin your curtain, being par- 
ticular to have the sides all straight, and the whole 
perfectly smooth to dry in shape. You can dry two 
curtains at a time very well on one mattress, and, if 
the sun is bright and warm, they will dry m one or 
two hours. 

8. Starching and Ironing. — Starch is made in 
two ways, raw and boiled. Mix four table-spoonfuls 
of starch with half a pint of cold water, for raw starch, 



HOUSE WORK. 21 

which, used on collars, cuffs, and shirt-bosoms, will 
make them very stiff, they being dry when dipped into 
the starch. Wet them thoroughly, clap .between the 
hands, and then roll up tight in a clean cloth, and in 
an hour they can be ironed. 

9. For a dress, you would use about eight times as 
much water. In using raw starch, care must be taken 
that no part of the garment becomes dry before being 
ironed, as that would prevent there being any stiff- 
ness. 

10. Boiled starch is made by mixing raw starch 
,vith enough cold water to make a thin mixture, — a 
cup of water to three fourths of starch, — and then 
pouring boiling water on it till it becomes the thick- 
ness you require, stirring all the time you are pouring 
the water. If for collars and cuffs, it must be quite 
thick; the articles should be well clapped between 
the hands, as that spreads the starch evenly through 
all the threads of the linen. Dry them, and then 
dampen in cold water, rolling them up in a cloth. 
They will iron better if they remain thus for ten or 
twelve hours. Many of the best laundresses add a 
teaspoonful of butter or lard to every quart of starch. 
For colored clothing the starch should be thin and 
cool, the articles being put into it from the rinse-tub. 
Articles starched with boiled starch must always be- 
dried and sprinkled before ironing. 

11. The ironing-sheet must be quite clean, or it will 
soil the clean clothes, and the irons should be washed 
once a month, while warm, in warmer water, in which 
a little lard is melted ; this will keep them clean and 
smooth. They are hot enough to use when a drop of 



22 HOUSE FIOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

water will make them hiss. The clothes should be 
sprinkled and folded the night before being ironed, 
and, if carefully and smoothly folded, will iron more 
easily and quickly. 

12. If the starch clings to the iron when passing 
over the starched garments, place upon a board sand 
or brick-dust, and rub your iron up and down until 
the starch is rubbed off. 

13. Always try your iron on a piece of paper or 
cloth before putting it upon a garment, to insure its 
being clean and not too hot. If it is too hot, set 
where it will cool, but never throw cold water upon 
an iron, as that makes it very rough. 

14.. The ironed clothes should hang in a warm, dry 
room, airing at least twenty-four hours before being 
folded and put away, as it is quite dangerous to wear 
clothing or sleep in sheets not thoroughly aired. Per- 
sons often are made very ill by carelessness in this 
particular. 

FIRES. 

I. Stoves and ranges are now made so that the 
ashes and cinders can be taken out without making a 
dust. First gather all the ashes and cinders from the 
top of the stove into the grate ; then put on the covers, 
shut the doors, and dump the contents of grate into 
the ash-pan. Take out the ash-pan and empty into 
the sifter, return the pan to its place, and close the 
ioor. Now put shavings or paper into the grate, and 
place on top several pieces of light wood, crossing 
each other so ther^ shall be a draft of air through 
them. Now add three or four sticks of hard wood 
and set the shavings on fire, opening all the drafts of 



HOUSE WORK. 23 

the stove. As soon as the wood begins to take fire, 
cover about six inches thick with fresh coal. Watch 
the fire now, that the coal does not burn up too red ; 
but just as soon as it has begun to take fire shut up 
all the oven dampers, keeping open only the slide in 
front of the grate. 

2. Never have the coal come above the lining of 
the stove. It is a waste of fuel, and the fire will not 
be so bris^ht and clear because the draft will not be so 
good. When you are not using the fire, keep the 
dampers closed ; it will be ready when you need it ; 
then open the drafts. For cooking either on top of 
the stove or in the oven, no matter how hot the fire 
desired, having the coal come nearly to the top of 
the lining, the fire ought to last four hours without 
new coal or poking. If after dinner you wish to have 
a good clear fire to bake, let the fire burn quite low, 
then take off all the covers, and with a long poker 
rake the coals from one end of the grate to the other. 
When you have raked down all the ashes in this way, 
and separated all the coal, put in two sticks of hard 
wood, fill up with fresh coal, and the fire will be quite 
as good as if you had dumped the old one. When you 
just wish to keep enough fire to make tea and toast, 
put on cinders after dinner, and shut all the dampers 
until twenty minutes before again needed, when open- 
ing the dJimpers will rekindle it. 

3. Some chimneys draw better than others, so that 
the time it takes for kindling a fire cannot always be 
'old. 

4. Fires in open stoves and grates are made in the 
same way, only a blower is fastened on in front of the 



24 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY 

grate until the fire burns brightly; after removing the 
blower the fire will continue, if undisturbed, for from 
six to twelve hours. 

LAMPS. 

1. There used to be a great many kinds of oils 
burned, and of course a great many kinds of lamps 
suited to the different oils, but now kerosene oil is 
what nearly every one uses who has not gas in the 
house. The wick should touch the bottom of a lamp 
and be trimmed square across. 

2. Keep every part of the lamp perfectly clean, or 
the air cannot circulate freely and the lamp will not 
burn well. Never burn a lamp when the oil is very 
low, as a gas collects in the lamjD, which is liable to 
explode. 

3. Do not fill the lamp to the very top, as the heat 
expands the oil, which forces its way out of the lamp, 
making it both dirty and dangerous. 

4. When you light a lamp, do not turn the wick up 
much at first, until the chimney is gradually heated, 
because the inside of the glass heats first, and if the 
heat is strong at first the glass expands too rapidly 
and breaks. 

5. When you take a lamp from a warm room into 
a cold one, or into a draft, you must first turn down 
the wick that the chimney may cool a little ; a cold 
current of air striking on a hot chimney will break it 
as quickly as heating too rapidly. 

6. In a very moist climate, like East Florida, or on 
the sea-shore, the lamp-chimneys break very often ; 
for cool moist air cools glass more quickly than cool 
dry air does. 



HOUSE WORK. 25 

7. When using a lamp to light a room, be sure the 
wick is turned up high enough to burn freely ; if not, 
the room will soon be poisoned with the gas from it. 

8. In case of sickness, where there must be a light 
kept, if you are without a night lamp, place the com- 
mon lamp in another room or hall, rather than turn 
the wick too low. 

9. To have a bright fire, or a clear blaze from your 
lamp, it must be remembered that plenty of fresh air 
is necessary ; the lamp must therefore be kept clean, 
and the stove free from cinders and ashes. 




IS 


»i(:^'S^rBi^K 


^^M 


SPlllifii 



CHAPTER V. 



THE HUMAN BODY. 

I. The human body has often been compared to 
the steam-engine, and no better illustration can be 
found. In the engine we have a material structure ; 
in the body we have a material structure also, only 
very much more comp-licated. The fuel and water 
with which the engine is fed answers to the food for 
the supply of the human body. The same agent, air, 
is used to consume the fuel in both. The burning of 
the fuel is necessary in both, that work may be done ; 
and the greater the amount of work to be done, the 
greater must be the supply of fuel. 

ANALOGIES OF 



The steam-engine, in action, 
takes : — 



THE STEAM-ENGINE AND THE LIVING BODY. 

The animal body, in life, 
takes : — 

1. Food. Vegetables and flesh, 
both combustible. 

2. Water for circulation. 

3. Air, for respiration. ^ 
And produces : — 

4. A steady animal heat, by 
slow combustion, of 98°. 



1. Fuel. Coal and wood, both 

combustible. 

2. Water, for evaporation. 

3. Air, for combustion. 

And produces : — 

4.. A steady boiling heat of 212°, 

by quick combustion. 



5. Smoke loaded with carbonic 5. Expired breath, loaded with 
acid and wate*"/ vapor. carbonic acid and watery 

vapor. 



THE HUMAN BODY. 2/ 

STEAM-ENGINE. ' LIVING BODY. 

6. Incombustible ashes. 6. Incombustible animal refuse. 

7. Motive force of simple al- 7. Mo'tive force of simple alter- 

ternate push and pull in nate contraction and relaxa- 

the piston, which, acting tion in the muscles, which, 

through wheels, bands, acting through joints, ten- 

and levers, does work of dons, and levers, does 

endless variety. work of endless variety. 

8. A deficiency of fuel, water, 8. A deficiency of food, drink, 
. or air disturbs, then stops, or air, first disturbs, then 

the motion. stops, the motion and the 

life." 

Yoicnians. 

An engine having the speed of sixty miles an hour 
will consume more fuel and water than one having 
the speed of only thirty miles an hour; so a person 
working hard with body and mind will require more 
food than a person who does but little work. There 
is a great difference in people as to the amount of 
food necessary for them, so that it is impossible to 
lay down a rule showing how much food every person 
would require. 

COMPOSITION OF THE HUMAN BODY. 

In a person weighing 154 lbs., the compounds are 
as follows : — 

LBS. OZ. GRS 

1. Water, which is found in every part of the 

body, and amounts to . . . . 109 o o 

2. Fibrine and like substances found in the blood 

and forming the chief solid materials of the 

flesh 15 10 o 

3 Phosphate of lime, chiefly in bones and teeth, 

but in all the liquids and tissue . . . 812 O 
\. Fat, a mixture of three chemical compounds, 

and distributed all through the body ..480 



28 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 



5. Ossein, the organic framework of bones ; chief 

constituent of connective tissue. Boiled 

yields gelatine 4 7 35° 

6. Keratine, which forms the greater part of the 

hair, nails, skin, and is a nitrogenous sub- 
stance, weighs . . . . . . 42.0 

7. Cartilagin resembles the ossein of bone, is a 

nitrogenous substance, and chief constituent 

of cartilage ; weighs . . . . . 18 o 

8. Haemoglobin gives the red color to blood, and 

contains iron, is a nitrogenous substance ; 

weighs 180 

9. Albumen is a soluble nitrogenous substance 

found in the blood, chyle, muscle, lymph; 

weighs I I O 

10 Carbonate of lime, found mostly in the bone, 

and weighs . I O 350 

11. Hephalin is found in nerves, brain, with 
cerebrin, mugelin, and several other com- 
pounds ; weighs . . . . . . o 13 o 

12. Fluoride of calcium is found chiefly in teeth 

and bones ; weighs o 7 I75 

13. Phosphate of magnesia is found chiefly in 

teeth and bones ; weighs ....070 

14. Chloride of sodium, or common salt, is found 

in all parts of the body ; weighs ...070 

15. Cholesterin, glycogen, and inosite are com- 
pounds containing hydrogen, oxygen, and 
carbon ; found in muscle, liver, and brain ; 

weigh 030 

16. Sulphate, phosphate, orgarme, salts of so- 
dium, found in all tissues and liquids ; weigh o 2 107 

17. Sulphate, phosphate, chloride of potassium, 

are found in all tissues and liquids ; weigh . o i 300 

18. Silica, found in hair, skin, bone, weighs . o o 30 



THE HUMAN BODY. 29 

ELEMENTS OF THE HUMAN BODY. 

I-BS. OZ. GRa 

I. Oxygen, a gas, and supporter of combustion, 

weighs 103 2 335 

2 Carbon, a solid, found nearly pure in charcoal. 
Carbon in the body is combined with other 
elements and produces carbonic acid gas, 
and sets free heat by its burning ; weighs . 18 1 1 150 

3. Hydrogen, a gas : it is a necessary part of all 

bone, blood, and muscle ; weighs . . 414 o 

4. Phosphorus, a solid, found in brain, bones, 

weighs . . I 12 25 

5. Sulphur, a solid, found in all parts of the body, 

weighs 080 

6. Chlorine, a gas, found in all parts of the body, 

weighs 04 150 

7. Fluorine, supposed to be a gas, is found united 

with calcium in teeth and bones ; weighs . o 3 300 

8. Silicon, a solid, found united with oxygen in 

the hair, skin, bile, bones, blood, saliva ; 

weighs o o 14 

9. Magnesium, a metal found in union with phos- 

phoric acid in the bones, weighs ...02 250 

10. Potassium, a metal, the basis of potash, is 

found as phosphate and chloride ; weighs . o 3 340 

11. Sodium, a metal, basis of soda, weigns . o 3217 

12. Calcium, a metal, basis of lime, found mostly 

in teeth, bones, weighs .... 3 [3 190 

13. Iron, a metal found everywhere in the body, 

and is essential to the coloring of the blood o o 65 
Manganese and Copper Metals. — Faint traces 
of bjth these metals are found in the blood and 
brain. 

14. Nitrogen, a gas, which is a part of all muscle, 

blood, and bone ; weighs 4 14 

By this table you will see. there are sixteen ele- 
ments in the human body, and we must have food 



30 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

every day in which all these elements are. We do 
not take food into the body in the form of elements, 
except the oxygen, a great part of which we take in 
the free, uncombined state. This, however, we have 
found is not so much a food as an agent to burn the 
food. Now that we know the elements and com- 
pounds of the body, we want a simple table which 
shall tell us what forms our daily food. 




M 




1 


M 


M 


P_!Hill""IMl 


m: 


m 



CHAPTER VI. 



PHYSIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL CLASSIFICA- 
TION OF FOOD. 

Nitrogen compounds are the chief muscular flesh 
formers. They may yield fat, and, by their oxidation 
or burning, set free heat and motion. 

Carbon compounds are sugar, starch, etc. They 
produce heat. The carbon and nitrogen compounds 
are all combustible, that is, they will burn or oxidize in 
the body. 

Water and mineral compounds, such as phos- 
phate of lime and salt, are not combustible, but they 
are necessary to the building up and repairing of the 
body. 

The flesh-forming foods are sometimes termed the 
nitrogenous foods, and sometimes albuminoids. 

The foods that produce heat are often termed 
warmth -giving, and sometimes carbonaceous foods. 

We must remember that the nitrogenous foods form 
muscular flesh, and that the carbonaceous foods pro- 
duce heat ; also that one is as necessary as the other 
to a healthy body. In winter and a cold climate we 
require more fat and starch to keep the body warm 
than we do in a hot climate or in summer. Also, we 
must have a proper supply of such food as goes to 
build up the bones and muscles. 



32 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 
ALBUMINOUS MATTERS. 

1. Albuminous matters are derived from both ani- 
mal and vegetable sources, but they are more abun- 
dant in animal substances, for which reason animal 
food is richer and more nutritious than vegetable 
food, and less of it is needed to supply the waste of 
the body. Albumen is the principal ingredient in the 
white of the ^gg. It is found in the blood, and it is 
this element which makes it grow hard when exposed 
to the air or heat. Caseine is the albuminous sub- 
stance of milk, gluten of flour, and is a common in- 
gredient of all vegetable juices. It exists in two 
states : one soluble in water, the other insoluble. 

2. One of the properties of albumen is that of co- 
agulation, that is, hardening. They do not all coag- 
ulate by the same method. The white of an ^g^, will 
harden when heated to the boiling point ; the fibrine 
of the blood coagulates when exposed to the air. 

3. Milk will not coagulate when boiled ; but if a 
piece of rennet is added to it, in a few minutes it will 
harden if it is blood-warm. This property of coagu- 
lation belongs entirely to albuminous substances. An- 
other property belonging to them is that they will fer- 
ment. This is also a very important property. When 
milk or soup has become sour, it has fermented ; when 
we put bread to rise with yeast, it begins to ferment \ 
but if the yeast is sweet and the bread does not rise 
too long, the bread will be sweet. 

4. Fermentation will not take place in a very cold 
or very hot atmosphere, and will be most rapid about 
100 degrees Fahrenheit, that is, about as warm as the 
human body. 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD. 33 

5. Albuminous matters are the only ones that pu- 
trefy. All substances containing albuminous matter 
will, when exposed to the air and moisture, become 
putrefied, and, if it is warm, much more rapidly than 
in a cold atmosphere. 

6. Animal substances do not putrefy at a very high 
or a very Iqw temperature, that is, if they are kept at 
the freezing point or boiling. When we say anything 
is at a low temperature we mean very cold, and when 
at a high temperature, it is very hot. So when meat 
or fish are to be kept for some days we either put 
them on ice, in a chest, or cook them. 

7. If there is no moisture, putrefaction will not take 
place ; for this reason meats and fish are often dried 
in the air and sun, and they will keep for years if kept 
in a cool, dry place. 

MEAT. 

I. We will first consider meat, as it contains the most 
albuminous matter. If we take a piece of lean meat 
and strip it up very fine, and then wash it in a number 
of clean waters, rubbing the meat at the same time, 
we shall wash away all the soluble part, and there will 
,emain only white threads. These threads are the 
fibres of the flesh, and the substance of which these 
threads are composed is named fibrine. It is an 
albuminous article of food. Fibrine also exists in the 
blood of animals. Heat, when as great as that of 
boiling water, hardens and shrinks fibrine, but if the 
heat is less than boiling and is continued a long time, 
\ softens it. 

3 



34 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

2. Tough pieces of meat are made very tender by 
stewing a long time, but they must never boil. 

3. When the meat has been thoroughly washed to 
get the fibrine, the albumen is dissolved in the water. 
This is a very important part of the meat. It dis- 
solves in cold water, but hardens in hot water. If we 
put a piece of fresh meat in a pan of boiling water, 
and another piece in one of cold water, and let them 
cook the same length of time, we shall find that the 
water in which the meat was put cold is much richer 
with the juices of the meat than that which was hot 
when the m.eat was put in, and that the meat is poorer 
in flavor and juices than the piece placed in hot water 

4. We see why this is. The hot water coagulates 
the albumen which is on the surface of the meat ; this 
fills up every little pore, and the. juices cannot flow 
out. But the cold water dissolves die albumen, and 
draws it all out of the meat. Now if we wish to 
keep the juices in a boiled piece of meat we must first 
plunge it into boiUng water, and let it boil rapidly for 
fifteen minutes, to harden the albumen on the outside \ 
then we must set it back where the heat will not be 
so great, and let it just simmer until done, because we 
have found that if we boil it the fibres will grow hard 
and shrivel up. If we wish to make soups, and get 
^11 the juices into the broth, we put the meat in cold 
water and let it heat slowly. We must remember 
this in broiling and roasting also, — always to have a 
quick fire for broiling, and when the meat is first put 
before the fire, or in the oven for roasting, because 
we first wish to harden the albumen, so that the 
juices shall not flow out of the meat while cooking, 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD. 35 

To stick a fork into a piece of meat while cooking 
makes great holes through which the juices flow out 
and are lost. Nearly all parts of an animal are good 
for food, the muscular flesh being the best. 

5. Stewing is the most economical mode of cooking 
meats, as then all parts are tender and eatable. 

6. Broiling and roasting are the most healthful j 
next, stewing or boiling. 

7. Fried meats cannot be healthful, but are much 
used, because a very convenient way to cook, and it 
serves to make variety in the mode of serving meats, 

8. All red meats should be cooked rare, and all 
white meats should be well done. Beef, to be good, 
must either be cooked very rare, or be thoroughly 
done. 

9. T^e heart and livers of nearly all animals are 
very nutritious, but are hard to digest. 

10. Tripe is both nutritious and digestible. 

11. The tendons and gristly parts can be boiled to 
a jelly. They consist of a substance called gelatine. 
The shanks of beef and veal are much used for soups, 
for the sake of the jelly which they make, and which 
will keep for a week or more in a cool place. 

12. Salt Meats. — Salting meats, as in the case of 
beef and mutton, is very wasteful. The salt extracts 
the juices, and the brine receives the most nutritious 
part of the meat. In the case of pork, it makes but 
little difference, as the fat is not injured by the 
salting. 

MILK. 

r. Milk is a naturally prepared food. It contains 
all the elements of which the body is composed. A 



36 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

very large proportion of milk consists of water ; the 
cream is largely fat. When milk becomes sour, the 
solid part separates from the whey, and is called curd. 
The curd is the albuminous part of the milk, while 
the cream is the carbonaceous part. The whey left 
after the curd is taken from the milk contains salt and 
other mineral matter necessary for digestion, and the 
earthy matter of which the teeth and bones are 
formed. 

EGGS. 

1. Eggs, like milk, contain all the material neces- 
sary for the growth of the body. They are composed 
of two distinct substances, — the yolk and the white. 
The white consists of water, albumen, and mineral in- 
gredients. The yolk contains nearly a third of its 
weight in oil, a large quantity of albumen, -a very 
large part of sulphur, and other mineral matters. The 
sulphur gives the yolk its yellow color, and it is this 
which causes the eggs to tarnish silver. Eggs are 
not easily digested by every person, but are very nu- 
tritious food for those who can eat them. 

2. The most healthful modes of cooking eggs are 
boiling, poaching, and in omelets. The common 
mode of putting the eggs into boiling water and let- 
ting them boil rapidly for three or more minutes is 
not the best, as the heat hardens the albumen near 
the shell ; and in this way, while the white of the ^gg 
becomes very hard, the yolk has not begun to cook. 

3. The better way is to pour boiling water on the 
eggs, cover them closely, and let them stand where 
they will keep hot, but not boil, for ten minutes. Then 
they will be cooked through evenly, — the white and 
yolk alike. 



CLASSIFICA TION OF FOOD. 37 

4. When they are to be cooked hard, they should 
boil twenty minutes, whi(^ is necessary to make them 
mealy and digestible. 

POACHED OR DROPPED EGGS. 

5. When eggs are broken into a cup, and then 
turned gently into a pan of salted boiling water and 
cooked for about one minute, they are called dropped 
or poached eggs. They are healthful and inviting 
cooked in this manner and served on toasted bread. 

6. Omelets are prepared by beating the eggs well, 
seasoning with salt, pepper, and a little milk, cooked 
in a very hot frypan. There must not be too much 
of the mixture poured in at once, and the pan should 
be moved quickly while the omelet is being cooked. 
This is a very healthful and convenient dish. 

7. Eggs are used for custards, puddings, pies, and 
cakes. They make these dishes lighter and more nu- 
tritious. When eggs are beaten very rapidly, they 
quickly break up into cells filled with air. The white 
of the &g^ will retain more air than the yolk, and for 
this reason it is very useful in making cake, or any 
other kinds of food where lightness is desirable. 







^%^ 


^:^H 


Ilim 




^ 


s^M' 







CHAPTER VII. 



FISH. 

1. Fish is a very healthy and digestible food, but not 
nearly so nutritious as meat. White fish are much 
more easily digested than dark, having so much less 
oil. Fish is very nitrogenous, for which reason a 
good deal of starchy food should be eaten with it. 
Potatoes are particularly suitable on this account to 
be eaten with fish. It is now thought that fish is a 
better brain food than meat, because it contains so 
much phosphates. 

2. Oysters, clams, and mussels are made indigest- 
ible by much cooking. They are all improved by 
being kept in salted water and meal for a day or two. 

3. Lobsters and crabs are not easily digested. Cay- 
enne pepper should always be used in seasoning them, 
as that helps digestion. 

4. Fish must always be thoroughly cooked, and if 
boiled it should be plunged into boiling water, well 
salted ; then the kettle set back where it will simmer 
gently until done. Much of the nutritious part of the 
fish is lost in boiling. If the water is salted, it not 
only seasons the fish but hardens the water, and thus 
less of the nutritious qualities are lost. 

5. Baking fish carefully renders it one of the most 



FISH. 39 

savory dishes we have, and less of the nutritious qual- 
ities are lost. 

6. In stewing, or making fish-chowder, all the nutri- 
tion is kept. 

7. Frying. — Nearly all varieties of white fish are 
fried, which is a very convenieat and savory method 
of cooking, but not nearly so healthful as either boil- 
ing, baking, or broiling. The fish should be wiped 
dry, seasoned with salt and pepper, and dipped into 
flour, meal, bread or cracker crumbs, and then 
dropped into boiling fat. There should always be 
enough fat to cover the fish, and the smoke should 
rise from the centre of it before the fish is put into it.- 

8. Salting fish, like salting meat, extracts the juices 
and hardens the fibres. Fat fish, like fat meats, are 
not injured to the same extent as white fish. There 
is a fish that is found in the great lakes named white 
fish, but all the light fish, such as cod, haddock, etc., 
are called white fish, because the oil is contained in 
the liver; while in blue-fish, mackerel, salmon, etc., 
the oil is found in all parts of the body. 

LOBSTERS AND SALTED COD-FISH. 

9. Lobsters should be plunged into boiling water 
while yet alive, and boiled until the shell turns red. 
They are eaten with a dressing and as a salad, without 
further cooking, and they are also cooked again in 
many different ways. 

10. A great mistake is often made in cooking salt 
cod-fish. When it is soaked to extract the salt, it 
should be placed in a pan of cold water. The skin of 
the fish being up, the salt will fall on the skin if the 



40 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY, 

fish is placed with the skin under, and so the fish 
does not freshen. In the morning, the fish should be 
placed in the same position and covered with water, 
and then let come to a boil; cover tightly, set back 
where it will not boil, and cook for five or six hours. 
Fish cooked in this manner will be tender and juicy. 
Boiling hardens the fibres of the. salt-fish just the 
same as it does meat. Salt-fish cooked in this way, 
and served with potatoes, beets, carrots, and salt 
fried pork or butter sauce, makes a very substantial 
dinner. What remains from dinner can be used for a 
great many dishes, such as hash and fish-balls. All 
cold fish left fiom one meal can be warmed ujd in 
some way to be a savory dish and used again. 




^^^s 


1 


^^^Ti^-^:=\^^ 


^S 


1^^' 


i 


^p^^ 


^^^ 






^^ 




i 


T^^^ss 



CHAPTER VIII. 

VEGETABLES. 

1. A certain amount of fresh vegetables is necessary 
to perfect health. The most common and useful with 
us are the potato, squash, turnip, beet, cabbage, and 
onion, because they can be kept for many months after 
being gathered from the garden. 

2. The potato is the most general in use. Three 
fourths of the weight of the potato consists of water ; 
the greater part of what remains is starch, with a little 
fibrine, albumen, and small quantities of mineral and 
other matters. Being so largely composed of starch 
classes it among the carbonaceous foods. 

3. Turnips. — Nine tenths of the weight of the 
turnip consists of water. It coiYtains no starch, but 
has mineral, pectose, and other matters in small quan- 
tities. Some chemists think that it is a nutritious 
food, and others think that there is very little nutri- 
ment in it. Having so much pectose and no starch, 
it is a good vegetable to be eaten with potatoes. 

4. Squash. — A large proportion of the squash is 
water, while starch, sugar, albumen, and mineral mat- 
ters are found in it. As a food it is pleasant and 
healthful. 

5. Beets. — The beet is also largely water ; has 



42 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

sugar, minerals, albumen, and three parts pectose. It 
belongs to carbonaceous foods. 

6. Cabbage is now considered by some chemists to 
be one of the most nutritious vegetables. It is com- 
posed of about nine tenths water, and the remainder 
albumen, starch, sugar, gum, fat, mineral, and other 
matters. With potatoes, rice, or any starchy food, 
cabbage, or any kind of greens, is very valuable as 
food. 

7. Onions are used for flavoring soups and stews, 
and by many persons they are eaten both raw and 
cooked. There is a great difference in strength of 
smell and flavor in the different kinds of onions, those 
grown in our northern climates being much stronger 
than those from a southern climate. The onion is 
used not only in cookery, but often in sickness. It 
contains no starch, and belongs to the nitrogenous or 
flesh-forming class of foods. 

8. Sweet Potatoes. — The sweet potato belongs to 
the carbonaceous class of foods, as so large a part of 
it consists of starch and sugar. Seven tenths of its 
weight is water. 

9. Tomatoes. — Nearly nine tenths of the tomato 
consists of water. The next largest substance is 
sugar. It contains no starch, but albumen, malic acid, 
cellulose, pectose, and mineral matters. It is four 
times more warmth-giving than flesh-forming. 

10. All fresh green vegetables when well cooked 
are very healthful. 

Pease and Beans. — When green, pease and beans 
are very nutritious and easily digested. When dried, 
they are still a very nutritious food, but are not so di- 



VEGETABLES. 43 

gestible. When dried, they require a great deal of 
cooking. They are very nearly alike in composition : 
over one half is starch, one fourth casein ; the re- 
mainder is water, mineral matters, etc. The casein 
resembles the curd in cheese, and belongs to the flesh- 
forming or nitrogenous foods, so that these vegetables 
by themselves form a more perfect food than any 
other of which we have spoken. If a small teaspoon- 
ful of mustard be added in the cooking of beans, 
there is less danger of their producing colic, as they 
often do when eaten by some persons. 

Carrots and Parsnips. — Carrots and parsnips 
are somewhat alike in their composition. The parsnip 
contains albumen, sugar, starch, cellulose, lignose, pec- 
tose, dextrine, fat, and mineral matter. The carrot 
contains albumen, sugar, cellulose, lignose, gum, pec- 
tose, fat, and mineral matter. There is no starch in 
carrots, but more sugar, so that its heating power 
equals the parsnip. 

SALADS. 

1. Under salads are classed all p:reen vesretables that 
are eaten uncooked. This term is now commonly 
applied to all vegetables, meats, and fish which arc 
eaten with a dressing made of oil, vinegar, salt, etc. 
In this place we shall only speak of the vegetable. 
Those most used as salads are lettuce, celery, cress,, 
sorrel, chicory, tomatoes, and cucumbers; also some 
kinds of cabbage. 

2. Nearly all the food value that lettuce contains is 
in the water and mineral matter which it introduces 
into the body, but it is a very refreshing dish when 
eaten with rich food. 



44 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

3. Celery. — Celeiy is much richer in nutrients. 
It is three times as great a heat-giver as flesh-former.- 
It is used as a salad, as a seasoning for soups, and, 
when cooked, as a vegetable. 

4. Water-cress. — This salad is grown in wet 
places and shallow-running streams. It has nearly 
the same food value that celery has. It is always 
eaten uncooked. Great care must be taken in wash- 
ing and preparing these salads, as there are frequently 
little insects upon them. 

5. Cucumbers. — Cucumbers have but little food 
value, and to some persons are very injurious. They 
are eaten when uncooked as salads, and are also cooked 
in various ways. 




CHAPTER IX. 



FRUITS. 



Fresh fruits are very necessary to perfect health. 
They must be ripe and sound to be entirely healthful. 
Unripe and decaying fruit causes a great amount of 
sickness and death every year in our large cities, where 
it is sold at low prices on the streets. The most use- 
ful of the fruits, and very extensively grov/n, is the 
apple. It is not only good eaten fresh, but it can 
also be cooked in more ways than any other fruit. 

Figs, dates, and bananas, either fresh or preserved, 
are very healthful, nutritious fruits. 






i 


m 


^ 






W 




^MBW 



CHAPTER X. 



THE BREAD WE EAT. 

1. The bread we eat is made from wheat, rye, In- 
dian corn, and sometimes oats and rice. 

2. Wheat is the principal grain used for bread. 
There are a great many kinds of wheat, more than 
one hundred and fifty ! 

3. The red wheat, from which macaroni and vermi- 
celli are made, contains a greater amount of nitrog- 
enous substances than the white wheat does. It is 
harder, and is not so floury. 

4. Wheat is composed of nearly two thirds starch, 
about eleven parts albuminoids, water, mineral, and 
other matters. Whole wheat meal, on an average, 
contains one part flesh-formers to six and a half of 
heat-givers. 

5. In different kinds of flour the amount of starch 
varies. There are now two processes of making flour : 
one is called the old process, or St. Louis flour, and 
the other the new, or Haxall flour. In the new there 
is more starch and less of the albuminoids, the flour 
makes a very handsome white bread, which keeps moist 
for a long time, from the fact that starch in baking is 
changed to gum. It is questionable if this is the best 
flour to build up the body. 



THE BREAD WE EAT. 4/ 

6. Wheat and all cereal grains consist of three lay- 
ers of bran-coats and the inside or heart of the grain. 
The outer coat of the grain has but little food value, 
and as it is very hard and irritating to the digestive 
organs it is better to have it removed from the wheat 
before grinding. 

7. The greater part of the gluten, phosphates, etc., 
are in the bran-coats. The inside of the grain con- 
sists of cells filled with starch. When the wheat is 
ground by the old process, a great part of this bran is 
ground so fine that after being sifted many times some 
of the bran still remains. This makes the flour darker, 
but also much more healthful and nutritious. The 
less of the bran-coatings there is in flour the whiter 
it is.. 

8. Graham meal, or, as it is now commonly called, 
whole wheat meal, is the whole wheat ground rather 
fine and not sifted. But we do not always get the 
pure wheat meal. It is oftener a poor quality of flour 
with which common bran has been mixed. 

A great difference of opinion exists concerning 
which is the more nutritious, flour or Graham; some 
scientific persons claiming that flour is robbed of its 
most healthful parts, while others- claim Graham is not 
so nutritious as flour for hard-working people, because 
in its irritation of the digestive organs it causes the 
digesting fluids to flow more freely, and so hastens the 
food through the various channels too rapidly, not al- 
lowing time for proper digestion or absorption. Botli. 
of these theories are right in part, but to a hard-work- 
ing person we would advise the use of flour as the 
most nutritious and economical of the two, because aU 
9f it is digested. 



48 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

For persons of quiet habits, such as students and 
persons in offices or stores, the Graham would be 
better. 

9. If you will take a little flour and wet it with cold 
water, enough to make a dough, and then place it on 
a sieve and pour a stream of cold water over it, work- 
ing the dough all the time with one hand until the 
water that runs through the dough is no longer white, 
you will have remaining on the sieve the gluten of the 
flour j and after the water has stood a while, at the bot- 
tom of the pan there will be pure wheat starch, which 
you can get by pouring off the water very carefully. 
The water that you have poured off from the starch 
contains the sugar, gum, and mineral matter; these 
being dissolved in the water, they cannot be separated 
like the gluten and the starch. 

By washing a little dough in cold water we have 
learned some very important things. That the gluten 
of the flour does not dissolve in cold water ; that 
it is of a rather grayish color ; that it is tough and 
elastic, something like India rubber. This tough, 
elastic property is very important in bread and pastry 
making. 

10. When bread is made with yeast, the yeast unit- 
ing with the sugar of the flour produces carbonic acid 
gas. This gas tries to escape from the dough, but the 
tough gluten makes a wall which holds it back. The 
^as goes on forming in the dough, and soon there is 
a panful of light sponge where a few hours before 
there was about a third of a pan of solid dough. 

Next, we learned that the starch of the flour does 
not dissolve in cold water; and if we pour off the 



THE BREAD WE EAT. 49 

water and let it dr}'-, we shall find it is composed of 
grains which, if rubbed between the hands, will give 
off a crackling sound, and be fine and powdery. If 
we could examine these grains with a glass, we should 
find that each grain is covered with an outer skin, 
that will not dissolve in cold water ; but if we put the 
starch in boiling water these skins crack, and the in- 
sides are then dissolved and become gummy. We see 
from this how important it is that everything into 
which starch enters should be thoroughly cooked. 

INDIAN CORN. 

II. Indian corn is poorer than wheat as a flesh- 
former, but richer than rice. It contains more fat 
than any of the other grains except oats. It is used 
in this country in a great many forms as food. It 
is eaten, while green, from the cob, as a vegetable; 
the whole pearled grains as samp ; the broken grains 
as hominy ; and the ground grains as meal ; and in 
a very fine powder it is sold as corn starch, but it is 
rarely used as a laundry starch. In any form it 
makes a healthful addition to our food, but it is partic- 
ularly convenient and palatable in the form of hominy 
or meal. The hominy is ground from quite fine to 
very coarse. The meal, also, is ground coarse and 
fine. There are two processes for grinding meal. The 
old one gives a very sweet-flavored meal when it is first 
ground, but owing to the heating that it gets between 
the millstones and the moisture in the corn, it will 
grow musty very quickly: The product of the new 
process, called granulated meal, keeps perfectly well 
for years in all climates. The corn is first dried for 
4 



50 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

two years or more, and then ground by a process 
which gives coarse grains Uke granulated sugar. In 
using this kind of meal, more wetting must be used 
than with the old-process meal. In New England 
the yellow corn meal is the most used, but in the 
Southern and Middle States the white corn meal is 
mucli more used. 

OATMEAL. 

Oatmeal is richer in flesh-formers than wheat flour. 
It is used as a mush, eaten with milk, cream, butter, 
sugar, or syrup, the most common being sugar and 
milk. It is prepared for the market in different ways, 
one of the best being pearled oatmeal ; that is, all 
the hard outer husks are taken off, and it is then 
crushed slightly. It is also ground very coarse, me- 
dium coarse, and very fine. For most persons, oat- 
meal is very healthful ; but there are persons with 
very delicate stomachs who should not eat it unless 
it is very thoroughly pearled : the husks irritate the 
lining of the stomach. Oatmeal, as indeed all other 
mealsy should be very thoroughly cooked. 

Stir it into plenty of boiling water, and boil two 
hours. Bread is sometimes made of fine oatmeal, but 
not very often in this country. 

RYE. 

Rye meal and flour are more used in New England 
than in any other part of the country. It is used in 
the form of bread and mush. The flour is often made 
into raised bread ; the meal is used in brown bi'ead 
and muffins and third bread. Rye meal is a health- 



THE BREAD WE -EA T. 5 I 

fill addition to the bread materials by giving variety 
and coarseness to our breads. 

RICE. 

Rice is sometimes used in the form of flour in 
bread and cake making, and sometimes the whole rice 
is first boiled and then added to flour or meal in 
making bread. But the most common mode is to use 
it as a vegetable, or in puddings. 

Rice contains a great deal of starch, a small quan- 
tity of fibrine, no fat, a very little mineral and other 
matter. It is not by itself a nutritious substance, but 
when used with milk and eggs is good and healthful 
food. Also, when used as a vegetable with meats it 
takes the place of potatoes. 

PEARLED BARLEY. 

Barley is mostly used in soups ; but it is sometimes 
ground into flour and used with wheat flour for bread 
making. It is not as nutritious as wheat, but in soups 
it is a very delicious thickening. It requires a great 
deal of boiling, — never should be boiled less than 
two hours. 

BUCKWHEAT. 

Buckwheat is richer in nitrogenous substances and 
has less starch than wheat, so that it is a greater flesh- 
former than wheat. The common mode of using: it 
in this country is in the form of griddle-cakes. The 
amount of starch and fat contained in the buckwheat 
renders it very heating. It causes a slight eruption on 
the face of many persons after they have been eating 
U a few weeks. 



5 2 HO USEHOL D MAN A GEMENT AND COOKER Y. 
BREAD MAKING. 

Americans have more kinds of bread than any other 
nation, but they do not always have better, and gen- 
erally not as good, bread as is found in other coun- 
tries. As bread is one of the articles which we eat at 
every meal, it is one of the most important in the 
whole list of foods, and should be studied as carefully 
as possible. 

Good bread, to be healthful, must be light, porous, 
nd perfectly sweet. There are a great many ways 
of making bread. 

I St. By mixing with yeast. 

2d. By using leaven. 

3d. By salt-risiiigs or milk yeast. 

4th. By mixing the flour with water which is highly 
charged with carbonic acid. This is called aerated 
bread. 

5th. By baking powders, or soda and cream of tartar. 

6th. With cold water, and a great deal of beating. 

Yeast bread is by far the most healthful and eco 
nomical of all the modes of making bread. There 
are a great many rules for making yeast bread, but 
the first principles are always the same. These are 
one quart of flour, a little more than one fourth of 
a quart of water, one fourth of a cup of liquid yeast 
or one fourth of a cake of compressed yeast, one 
fourth of a- table-spoonful of salt, one fourth of a table* 
spoonful of sugar. The water should always be blood- 
warm, and the dough thoroughly kneaded to distribute 
the yeast evenly through it, and also to render the 
grain of the bread fine and uniform. Milk is often 



THE BREAD WE EAT. 53 

used instead of water, and generally a little butter or 
lard is added to the dough to make the bread more 
tender. Bread with these ingredients must of course 
be more nutritious than that made with water ; but 
there is no bread that has the delicious sweet taste of 
the wheat, and that will keep as long, as yeast bread 
made with water. As the bread depends so much 
upon the yeast, great care must be taken that it is 
quite sweet and fresh. The compressed yeast made 
by Gaff, Fleischmann & Co., when fresh, will always 
make good bread. This firm have done a vast amount 
)f good in this country by the introduction of their 
yeast and the examples they give us of what good 
bread is. If all our bakeries could copy their bread, 
chere would be a great change in the comfort and 
healthfulness to bread-buyers. When the dough is 
mixed, the water softens the gluten, and causes all 
the particles of flour to be cemented together. The 
yeast causes fermentation, changing the sugar of the 
flour and the* sugar added to the flour into carbonic 
acid and alcohol : it also changes part of the starch 
into sugar. Carbonic acid gas being very light, it 
seeks to escape and mix with the air, but here it can- 
not do so because of the gluten. 

HOW BREAD CHANGES IN IHE BAKIilG. 

The bread in baking loses about one sixth of its 
weight, but the loaf grows larger while baking, because 
the heat expands the carbonic acid, turns the water 
into steam and the alcohol into vapor. These escape 
through the pores of the bread, so that after baking 
%nd cooling neither carbonic acid nor alcohol is left in 



34 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

the bread. Baking also changes a great part of the 
starch into gum. Some of the starch belonging to 
the wheat does not change, except that the cells are 
broken and the starch dissolved so that it is digestible. 
The gluten becomes tender, and unites with the starch 
paste. 

LEAVEN. 

Leaven is a paste made with flour and water and 
allowed to sour. Sometimes housekeepers and bakers 
keep a piece of the risen dough for the next bread 
mixing, and they call this leaven. In many of the 
bakeries of Paris they do this, and use a little dry 
yeast with it in making common bread, but it always 
gives to the bread a slightly sour taste. 

SALT-RISING BREAD. 

In salt-rising a batter is made with flour, salt, milk, 
and water a little more than blood-warm. The basin 
in wdiich the batter is must be covered and placed 
in another basin of blood-warm water, and kept in a 
warm place near the fire, where it will keep at that 
temperature until it becomes a perfect sponge ; more 
flour is then added to it, and all is well kneaded and 
put in the baking-pans, and allowed to rise again till 
ready to bake. Bread made by this process is very 
sweet and delicate, but one tires of it very quickly. 

AERATED BREAD 

Aerated bread is made by mixing the flour with 
water into which carbonic acid has been forced under 
high pressure. As soon as the pressure is removed 
the bread begins to rise, and is baked immediately. 



THE BREAD WE EAT. 55 

BAKING POWDERS. 

Soda and cream of tartar and baking powders are 
used to make unfermented bread. Baking powders 
are a composition of an acid and an alkali. The acid 
takes the place of cream of tartar, and the alkali of 
soda; in fact, it is nearly always bicarbonate of soda. 
Baking powders, when pure, are the most convenient 
and safest mode of using chemicals where the cook 
is without a perfect knowledge of the relations be- 
tween soda and cream of tartar ; because, to be per- 
fectly harmless, they must each neutralize the other. 
It takes three fourths of cream of tartar to neutralize 
one fourth soda, if both articles are pure. It is a 
great mistake to mix the cream of tartar with the flour 
and then dissolve the soda with water, because you 
then must use a little more soda than would be neces- 
sary if you mixed the dry flour, soda, and cream of 
tartar together. 

Bread made with cold water is usually in the form 
of gems. The water must be very cold, the oven very 
hot, and the gem-pans hot. The water and salt are 
added to the Graham or wheat flour, and the batter is 
beaten very rapidly and thoroughly. This is to mix 
air with the batter. The mixture is then dropped by 
ihe spoonful into the pans, and they are immediately 
put into the oven and baked. In another chapter we 
shall have more exact rules for bread making. 



j^Ja 


^ 


^ 


w\ 


i 


cvHH 


^^Ji^ 


^ 


^ 




^ -M 




?^ 


^^m 


B4! 


M 




^ ^^S\ 


gO^ 


^^^ 




^ 


W^B 


^^ 


■£f 






^^^^IW 


^^1 



CHAPTER XI. 

THE CONDIMENTS, SPICES, 

WE USE. 



AND FLAVORS 



CONDIMENTS. 

Of the condiments we use, salt and pepper and 
mustard are the most hnportant. 

Salt, taken with foods, undergoes certain changes 
in the body. Its chlorine helps to supply the hydro- 
chloric acid of the gastric juice. Sodium forms part 
of the soda salts, which are the elements of the bile. 
Salt is very necessary to the health of both human 
beings and the higher animals. Only one race of 
people is known that does not use salt in food. A 
traveler found a tribe of people in Central Africa that 
did not use salt, and they did not seem to suffer from 
the loss of it. Civilized people, if deprived of salt 
for any length of time, become sick. Salt is used in 
nearly every dish that is cooked, and also in pre- 
serving meats and fish. Salt should be fine, dry, 
and white, and without a bitter taste. In boiling 
vegetables in soft water, when salt is added it slightly 
hardens the water, and so preserves the color and 
juices of the vegetables, besides giving them a better 
flavor. 

Pepper. — There are three kinds of pepper, — 



CONDIMENTS, SPICES, AND FLAVORS. 57 

black, white, and red. The black pepper is found in 
the market both whole and ground. The whole pep 
per is called pepper-corn. These pepper-corns are 
ground, and we then have black pepper. 

White pepper is made from these black pepper-corns, 
also, but the outer shells, or covering, are first re- 
moved before grinding. This gives it a different flavor 
and much lighter appearance than the black. 

Cayenne, a red pepper, consists of pods, or seed 
vessels, of different species of capsicum, ground to a 
powder. Though not so much used in cookery as 
black pepper, it is far more healthful, the red being 
stimulating, while the black is irritating. Cayenne is 
often used as a medicine : taken as a hot drink for 
colic or colds, used as a gargle with vinegar for sore 
throats, and sometimes with hot vinegar to bind on the 
throat when sore. 

Mustard. — Mustard is used as a condiment and 
often as a medicine, great quantities being used in 
malarial countries for pastes and mustard baths. It 
is made from the seeds of both black and white mus- 
tard, which are first crushed between rollers, and then 
pounded in mortars. When used with food the pow- 
der is simply mixed with water ; thus it is taken with 
cold meats. It is also employed to season some dishes 
while they are being cooked. . When taken in small 
quantities it is good for digestion, but if in large quan- 
tities it proves very injurious, as it irritates the lining 
of the stomach. 

Among other condiments which we use are mint, 
thyme, parsley, sage, sweet marjoram, and summer 
savory. The leaves of these are used either green or 



58 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

dried for soups, sauces, and meats. When used care- 
fully they add to the healthfulness of the food by 
making it more palatable. 

SPICE. 

Spices are usually added to articles of food contain- 
ing sugar, and sometimes to meats and soups. The 
most common of these are ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, 
clove, mace, and allspice. We get all these spices 
in the market for cooking purposes in three forms, 
whole spice, ground spice, and extracts. The ground 
spice is the most convenient and common mode of 
using them. A very little spice in an article of food 
will give it a pleasant taste. Where there is much 
used it hides the natural flavors of the food and 
spoils the appetite for simple food, beside causing ir- 
ritation in the stomach. The habit which school-girls 
have of eating cloves and cinnamon is a very injurious 
one, and often lays the foundation for ill health in after 
years, if it does not have immediate bad effects. 

Ginger is the most healthful of all the spices, and 
is much used in sickness, the same as mustard is. 
The spices are frequently mixed together in seasoning 
cake, pies, soups, and meats. The great art, then, is 
to be able to season so that one spice may not be 
tasted more than another. It will be easy to mix them 
with the following table, — beginning with the strongest 
and ending with the mildest. Ginger is seldom used 
in this mixture: i. Cloves; 2. Mace; 3. Nutmegs; 
4. Allspice; 5. Cinnamon. If we begin with cloves, 
«\'e increase the quantity of each spice, until reaching 
cinr.amon, we shall take four times as much as of the 



CONDIMENTS, SPICES, AND FLAVORS. 59 

cloves. This is not the place to speak of the herbs, 
but this is true of them also. Sage is the strongest, 
and you should not use more than half a,s much of it 
as of the other herbs. Both in spices and herbs a 
mixture of all kinds is very much nicer than a large 
quantity of only one. 

FLAVORS. 

In the market we have the extracts of nearly every 
kind of fruit for flavoring in cookery. Sometimes. the 
extracts are not taken from the fruit at all, but are 
artificial essences. The most common, and the ones 
that we are surer are taken from the fruit, nuts, or 
berries from which they are named, are lemon, orange, 
vanilla, and bitter almond. Lemon and vanilla are 
more used than any other of the flavors. It is 
always cheapest, safest, and best to buy in large bot- 
tles, and that made by manufacturers who have a 
reputation to maintain. Very small quantities of the 
pure extracts are healthful, because they make the 
food more palatable ; but there is nothing used in 
cookery where more care is necessary that there should 
not be too much used. An article while hot should 
never be seasoned with an extract if it is possible to 
add it after it cools, as the heat wastes the strength 
of the flavor, and more must of course be used. 
Where an article is to be frozen, three times as much 
flavoring and sweetening also must be used as when 
it is to be eaten cold. The usual rule is a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon or vanilla to a quart of custard, blanc- 
mange, pudding, etc. For sauces twice as much is 
needed. . Bitter almond and pine apple are both very 



6o HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

Strong, and when too much of either is used the re- 
sult is unhealthful and unpleasant. One fifth of a 
teaspoonful gives a delicate flavor. 

The fruits and the vanilla bean are used instead of 
the extracts. Where the fresh fruit can be had it is 
much better to use. 

A RULE FOR USING CONDIMENTS, SPICES, AND FLAVOR- 
INGS. 

Use only enough to give the food a delicate flavor. 




CHAPTER XII. 

TEA, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, ETC. 

TEA. 

There are three varieties of the tea-plant ; both 
black and green tea can be prepared from them all. 
Green tea is made from leaves which are dried quickly. 
Black tea is made from leaves which have first been 
allowed to stand tv/elve hours or more before roasting. 
The leaves wilt and grow moist in that time, and that 
is what gives the dark and peculiar appearance to this 
tea. In making tea the pot should be earthen, rinsed 
with boiling water, and left to stand for a few mo- 
ments on the stove to dry ; then put in the tea-leaves, 
and let it stand a few minutes longer, and pour on the 
boiling water, leaving the tea-pot standing where it will 
be at the boiling point, but not boil, for from three to 
five minutes. For moderate strength use one tea- 
spoonful of tea to half a pint of water. If the water 
is soft it should be used as soon as it boils, for boiling 
causes all the gases which flavor the water to escape. 
But if the water is hard it is best to boil it from twenty 
to thirty minutes. The gases escape from hard water 
also, but boiling causes the mineral matter, which 
hardens the water, to settle on the bottom of the 
kettle, and the water becomes softer. 



62 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

COFFEE. 

There are a variety of coffees, bat unlike the teas 
they do not owe their difference of flavor or color to 
the curing, but to the soil and climate in which they 
grow. Coffee grows on small trees. The fruit is 
something like the cherry, but there are two seeds in 
the fruit. The beans are separated by being bruised 
with a heavy roller ; they are then washed and dried. 
The longer the raw berry is kept the riper and better 
flavored it becomes. In countries where coffee is 
grown, the leaves of the tree are used as much as the 
berry for making coffee. Like tea, coffee must be 
roasted that the fine flavor shall be developed. There 
are large establishments now for roasting and grind- 
ing coffee. The work is done by machinery, and 
nearly always the grains are evenly roasted, and just 
enough to give the right flavor. If the coffee after 
roasting is placed in close tin cans, it will retain its 
best qualities for a long time. It can be ground when 
needed for use. Many persons think that heating the 
dry coffee just before making improves the flavor. 
There are many modes of making coffee, each one 
having its advantages and disadvantages. 

Boiled Coffee. — The old method of boiling coffee 
is still practiced by at least one half the housekeepers 
in this country. It is sometimes boiled with an ^g^^ 
which makes it perfectly clear, and also enriches it. 
When an ^gg is not used, a small piece of salt-fish 
skin is boiled with the coffee, to clear it. 

Rule for Boiled Coffee. — One small cup of 
roasted and ground coffee, one third being Mocha, 



' TEA, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, ETC. 63 

the other two thirds Java, one small egg-shell, and all 
broken into the pot with the dry coffee ; stir well with 
a spoon, and then pour on three pints of boiling water. 
Let it boil from five to ten minutes, beginning to count 
from the time when it begins to boil. As soon as it 
has boiled enough pour in one cup of cold water, and 
turn a little of the coffee into the cup to see that the 
nozzle of the pot is not filled with coffee grounds ; turn 
this back again, and let stand a few moments to settle. 
Be sure that it does not boil again. Advantages of 
the boiled coffee : When the ^g^ is used the yolk gives 
a very rich flavor, and when the milk or cream is added 
the coffee has a rich yellow look, which is very pleasing. 
It also has a peculiar flavor, which many persons pre- 
fer to the flavor given by any other process. Disad- 
vantages : The Qg2, coats over the dry coffee, and 
when the hot water is added the coating becomes 
hard, and a great deal of the best of the coffee re- 
mains in the grounds after the boiling. Also, in boil- 
ing much of the fine flavor is lost in the steam that 
escapes from the pot. 

FILTERED COFFEE. 

Another, and really the most economical and easi- 
est, way of making coffee is by filtering. The French 
coffee biggin is very nice for this. It consists of two 
cyUndrical tin vessels, one fitting into the other : the 
bottom of the upper one is a fine strainer ; another 
coarser strainer, with a rod running from the centre, is 
placed upon this ; then the coffee, which must be very 
finely ground, is put in, and then another strainer is 
placed at the top of the rod. The boiling water is 



64 HO USE HOLD MANA 6 EMENT AND COOKER V. 

now poured on, and the pot set where it will keep hot, 
but not boil, until the water has gone through. This 
will make a clear, strong coffee, with a rich, smooth 
flavor. The advantage of the two extra strainers is 
that the one coming next to the fine strainer prevents 
the coffee from filling up its fine holes, and so the 
coffee is clear, and made with more ease. The upper 
strainer causes the boiling water to fall on the coffee 
in a shower, like rain. In this way it is more evenly 
distributed, and the fine coffee is not carried through 
the ■ fine strainer, as it would be if the water were 
poured directly on the dry coffee. When rnilk or 
cream is added to this, it does not turn a rich j'ellow, 
as in the case of that boiled with an egg. .\ few 
spoonfuls of this coffee, without sugar or milk, aken 
after dinner, is said to help digestion. 

STEAMED COFFEE. 

Another mode of preparing coffee is steaming it. 
The coffee is put into the pot, and the boiling water 
poured on it. This pot, which is made to fit into a 
tea kettle, is then placed in the kettle, and let cook 
from ten to twenty minutes, the water in the kettle 
boiling all the time. This will make a clear, deli- 
cious coffee. Some persons think that by first wet- 
ting the coffee with cold water and letting it come to 
a boil, and then adding the boiling water, more of 
the strength of the coffee is extracted. When there is 
not cream for coffee, the m.ilk should be boiled, as it 
makes it much richer. As soon as the milk boils up 
it should be taken off the stove, since it grows strong 
and oily by much boiling. To many persons it is in- 



TEA, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, ETC. 65 

jurious to drink coffee. Physicians say that if coffee 
is drunk without milk it is perfectly harmless. Some 
element in the coffee combines with the milk to form a 
leathery coating on the stomach, which impairs diges- 
tion. A great many substances are mixed with coffee 
to cheapen it, — chicory, beans, pease, r}'e, wheat, 
being the most common ; but there are also a number 
of other things with which coffee is adulterated. To 
obtain it pure, the safest way is to buy it unground, 
unless you purchase from a strictly honorable firm. 
Persons drinking coffee, as a general rule, eat iess, 
though coffee, and also tea, have little direct food 
value ; but they retard the waste of the tissues, and 
so take the place of food. The sugar and milk used 
with them give some nutriment. 

COCOA. 

Cocoa is very rich in nutritious element. Like 
milk, it has all the substances necessary for the 
growth and sustenance of the body. It is the fruit of 
a small tree which grows in Mexico, Central America, 
the West Indies, and other islands. The fruit is 
in shape like a large, thick cucumber, and contains 
from six to thirty beans. There are a number of 
forms in which it is sold in the market, the most con- 
venient and nutritious being chocolate ; next comes 
cocoa ; then cocoa nibs ; and last cocoa shells. The 
beans of the cocoa are roasted in the same manner as 
coffee, the husks or shells taken off, and it is then 
ground between hot rollers. Sometimes the husks are 
not taken off at all, but ground up with the bean. 
The ground bean is called cocoa, and mixed with 
5 



66 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

sugar, after being ground very fine, is termed choco- 
late. Vanilla is often added as flavoring. Sometimes 
the cocoa is mixed with starch. When the bean is 
broken into small pieces, these are called nibs. 

To Make Cocoa. — Put a gill of the broken cocoa 
in a pot with two quarts of water, and boil gently 
three hours. There should be a quart of liquid in 
the pot when it is done ; if the pot has boiled so rap- 
idly that there is not this much, add more water, and 
let it boil once more. This same cocoa will do to be 
boilfid again. Many prefer half broken cocoa and 
half shells. If the stomach is delicate, it is better 
than all cocoa. Sugar and milk are used with it, the 
same as with tea and coffee. 

Shells. — Use twice as many shells as broken 
Cocoa, and boil twice as long. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape one ounce (one of the small squares) of 
Baker's, or any plain chocolate, fine ; add to this two 
table-spoonfuls of sugar, and put into a small saucei- 
pan with one table-spoonful of hot water ; stir over a 
hot fire for a minute or two, until it is perfectly 
smooth and glossy; then stir it all into a quart of 
boiling milk, or half milk and half water ; mix thor- 
oughly, and serve immediately. If the chocolate is 
desired richer, take twice as much chocolate, sugar, 
and water. Made in this way, chocolate is perfectly 
smooth and free from oily particles. If it is allowed 
to boil after the chocolate is added to the milk, it 
becomes oily and loses its fine flavor. 




COOKERY. 



FIRST LESSON. 

BREAD AND YEAST. 

Material for the Lesson. — Flour, seven and a half 
quarts ; yeast, one and a half cups ; sugar, one small 
tea-cup ; salt, five table-spoonfuls ; milk, one pint ; 
Graham, one heaping pint ; hops, one heaping table- 
spoonful ; lard, two heaping table-spoonfuls; six large 
potatoes j time, about three hours. 

HOP YEAST. 

Material. — Six potatoes ; one fourth cup of sugar ; 
mree table-spoonfuls of salt ; one heaping table-spoon- 
ful of hops j half pint of flour j half cup of yeast. Pare 
the potatoes, and put them in a saucepan W\t^ boiling 
water enough to cover them. Let them boil thirty 
minutes. As soon as you put the potatoes on to boil, 
put the hops into another saucepan with three pints 
of cold water ; cover the saucepan, and let the hops 
boil gently until the potatoes are done. Mix the salt, 
sugar, and sifted flour together. When the potatoes 



68 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY, 

are cooked pour off the water ; mash them very light 
and smooth ; then strain the hop water through a fine 
sieve on the jDotatoes ; stir well, and add the mixture 
of flour, salt, and sugar ; mix all very thoroughly, and 
strain the mixture through a colander into a stone jar. 
When it is blood-warm add the yeast ; cover tight, 
and set it to rise where it will be warm. It will rise 
in five hours. When risen, it will have a thick white 
froth on top. Now put into a stone jug or into bot- 
tles ; cork tight, and set on the cellar bottom or in the 
ice-chest, or, if you have neither, in the coolest place 
you have. Remember that great heat, like pouring 
boiling water on it, will kill the plant in the yeast, and 
also that freezing will do the same thing. The bot- 
tles or jug in which the yeast is kept must be washed 
out first with cold water, and then with soap and 
water ; and after that boiling water must be poured 
in, and let stand in it for at least half an hour. Yeast 
often becomes sour from the jug not being properly 
cleaned before being filled. The cork, too, must have 
the same care. In hot weather, the yeast should be 
made once a week. Plan to make enough for the 
bread, and to have enough to rise the new yeast. In 
very warm countries the dried yeast is the most used, 
and it is very convenient for rising liquid yeast in 
country places where the liquid yeast is not good. It 
is made by stirring into the fresh yeast Indian meal 
enough to make it so thick that it can be rolled out 
into sheets. It is then cut into little squares, placed 
on boards, and dried in the sun. It takes about three 
days to dry it. 



BREAD AND YEAST. 69 

YEAST BREAD. 

Material for Four Loaves of Bread. — Flour, two 
quarts ; salt, half table-spoonful ; sugar, half table- 
spoonful ; lard, half table-spoonful ; yeast, half cup ; 
water, nearly three fourths of a quart. Sift the flour 
into the bread pan ; take out a cupful of it to use in 
kneading the bread ; then add salt, sugar, yeast, and 
the water, v/hich must be blood-warm (about one hun- 
dred degrees, if in cold weather, and about eighty 
degrees in hot weather). Beat well with a strong 
spoon. When well mixed sprinkle a little flour on the 
board, turn the dough out on this, and knead from 
twenty to thirty minutes, and put back in the pan. 
Hold the lard in the hand long enough to be perfectly 
soft ; rub it over the dough ; cover close, that neither 
air nor dust may get in, and set where it is warm. 
It will rise in eight or nine hours. In the morning 
shape into loaves or rolls. If loaves, let them rise 
one hour, where the temperature is between ninety 
and one hundred ; if rolls, let them rise one hour and 
a half. Bake in an oven that will brown a teaspoon- 
ful of flour in five minutes. (The flour used for a test 
should be put on an old piece of crockery, as it will 
then have a more even heat.) The loaves will take 
from forty-five to sixty minutes to bake, and the rolls 
will bake in thirty if placed close together in the pan ; 
but if French rolls are made, they will bake in fifteen 
minutes. As soon as baked, the bread should be 
taken out of the pans, placed on the table, where they 
can rest against something until they are cool ; they 
%iiould then be put in a stone DOt or tin box which 



70 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

has been thoroughly washed, scalded, and dried, and 
set away in a cool, dry place. 

HINTS ON BREAD MAKING. 

Kjieadiiig. — When you put the bread on the board, 
mix it lightly. Do not press doiv?i, but let all your 
motions be as elastic as possible. Knead with the 
f>alm of the hand until the dough is a flat cake, and 
then fold ; keep doing this until the dough is light 
and smooth and will not stick to the board or the 
hands. Use as little flour, as possible in kneading. 
Do not stop kneading until you have finished. Bread 
that is " rested " is never so good. Milk can be used 
instead of water in mixing the bread. It should al- 
ways be scalded first, and then let cool to blood-heat. 
One table-spoonful of lard or batter makes the bread 
a little more tender when water is used. 

In cold weather, some kitchens grow cold very 
quickly after the fire goes out. In that case, the 
bread should be made earlier in the evening and set 
in a warmer place (about eighty or ninety degrees).; 
because if it begins to rise well the first two hours, 
it will continue to rise, unless the temperature of the 
room falls to the freezing-point. The reason for let- 
ting the rolls rise longer than the loaves is that the 
rolls being smaller, heat penetrates them much more 
quickly than it does the loaf, and of course fermen- 
tation is stopped sooner ; therefore the small rolls do 
not rise so much in the oven as the large loaves. The 
best sized pan for loaves is made of block tin, eight 
and a half inches long, four and a half wide, and three 
deep. Rolls should be made into smooth little balls, 



BREAD AND YEAST. 7 1 

and should be placed in even rows in a shallow pan. 
Breakfast rolls are first made into the little balls, and 
then rolled between the two hands to make long 
rolls of about three inches ; these are placed close 
together in even rows in the pan. Dinner or French 
rolls are first made into little balls, and put on a well- 
floured board ; a little rolling-pin, two and a half inches 
in circumference, is then well floured and pressed 
nearly through the centre of the little balls of dough ; 
they are then placed in the pans, but should not 
touch each other. Being so small and baking so 
quickly, they have a very sweet taste of the wheat. 

The Pans. — The pans for wheat bread should be 
greased very lightly, either with butter or lard ; for 
rye, Indian, or Graham, they must be greased thor- 
oughly, as the dough clings to the pans more. There 
are a great many kinds of bread which you can make 
readily and safely after having learned to make sim- 
ple, good bread. It is difficult to give exact rules for 
flour, as it varies so, some flours requiring much more 
water than others. The new process flour, having so 
much more starch and packing so much closer than 
the old process, requires one eighth less flour, or one 
eighth more liquid ; but if it is weighed, it takes the 
same amount of water for a pound of either process 
flour. The best flour is always the cheapest for bread 
making. 

Thtre is no one article of food of so great impor- 
tance, as to the health, comfort, and happiness of the 
family, as bread. Make it perfect. 



72 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 
GRAHAM BREAD. 

Material for Two Loaves^ or Twenty-four Muffins.—* 
Water or milk one pint, flour one pint, Graham one 
large pint, sugar half a cup, yeast half a cup, salt one 
teaspoonful. Have the milk or water blood-warm ; 
add the yeast to it. Have the flour sifted in a deep 
dish ; add yeast and milk gradually to the flour, beat- 
ing until perfectly smooth ; set in a rather cool place 
(about sixty degrees) to rise over night. In the 
morning add the salt, sugar, and then the Graham, a 
little at a time, beating vigorously all the while. When 
thoroughly beaten, turn into two bread pans, and let it 
rise an hour, in a temperature between ninety and a 
hundred. Bake one hour. 

Muffins. — Graham muflins are made the same as 
the bread. Fill tin muflin pans two thirds full, and let 
them rise to the top of the cups ; then bake in a rather 
quick oven twenty minutes. They will rise in one 
hour. 

To THE Teacher. — For this lesson the bread 
should have been put to rise the night before, also 
the sponge for the Gr.aham. The first thing in the 
morning, when the pupils meet, is to shape the risen 
bread into loaves and rolls, and then put them where 
they shall be rising ; then to add the remainder of the 
ingredients to the sponge for the Graham, and put 
that in the pans and muffin cups, making one loaf and 
twelve muffins. Then have potatoes prepared and 
put on to boil for the yeast, then the hops, and while 
they are cooking two batches of bread can be started : 
one by the teacher, to show how H ''^ done, letting 



BREAD AXD YEAST. 73 

each pupil practice kneading on this batch ; then one 
of the pupils should begin a new batch, the remainder 
of the class directing her. This dough will answer 
for an afternoon class, if put where the temperature 
is between ninety and a hundred ; or for a class the 
next morning, if it stands in the kitchen for an hour, 
and is then set in a cold room, where it will rise very 
slowly. The yeast can now be made, and while it is 
cooling the baking and cleaning up may be done, ad- 
ditional notes given, and dresses changed, so that 
there shall be no delay, but as soon as the bread is 
baked the class may be dismissed. The yeast will 
have cooled meantime, and the half cup of yeast will 
be added. The pupils knowing all about the tempera- 
ture and the time, they cannot fail to understand this 
important element of bread making. The bread les- 
son is the hardest of all the cooking lessons, on ac- 
count of the rising ; but if these simple directions are 
followed the foundation will be laid for good bread 
making all through the after life of the pupil, and 
nothing should stand in the way of the perfect mas- 
tering of this lesson. 

When more or all Graham is desired in the bread, 
the sponge can be made with the Graham, using, how- 
ever, only half as much yeast : as there is so much 
more gluten in the whole wheat, it ferments more 
rapidly than the fine white flour. Demand of each 
pupil that she make bread and yeast at home, and re» 
port to you. 



SECOND LESSON. 

Material for Lesson. — Two pounds of beef for stew, 
six pounds of beef for roasting, one pound of beef for 
broiling, eight potatoes, two slices of carrot, two of 
turnip, one onion, one and one fourth quarts of flour, 
one and three fourths quarts of milk, one pint of Gra- 
ham, five eggs, one large cup of sugar, one table-spoon- 
ful of butter or lard, one and one half teaspoons of 
soda, three teaspoons of cream of tartar or four and 
a half of baking powder, salt, pepper, flavoring, one 
pint of stale bread. 

" BEEF STEW. 

Two pounds of beef (the round, flank, or any cheap 
part \ if there is bone in it, two and one half pounds 
will be required), one onion, two slices of carrot, two 
of turnijD, two potatoes, three table-spoonfuls of flour, 
salt, pepper, one generous quart of water. 

Cut all the fat from the meat, and put in a stewpan 
and fry gently for ten or fifteen minutes. While the 
fat is frying cut the meat in small pieces, and season 
well with salt and pepper, and then sprinkle on two 
table-spoons of flour. Cut the vegetables into very 
small pieces, and put them in the pot with the fat ; fry 
them for five minutes, stirring all the time to prevent 
burning. Now put in the meat, and move it about in 



DUMPLINGS. 75 

the pot until it begins to. brown ; then add the quart of 
boiling water. Cover over, let it boil up once, skim, 
and set back where it will just bubble for two and a 
half hours ; then add the potatoes cut into slices, and 
one table-spoonful of flour, which mix smooth with 
half a cup of cold water, pouring about one third of 
the water on the flour at first, and when perfectly- 
smooth adding the remainder. Taste now to see if 
the stew is seasoned enough, and if not add more salt 
and pepper. Let the stew come to a boil again, and 
cook ten minutes ; then add the dumplings. Cover 
tight, and boil rapidly ten minutes longer. 

Mutton, lamb, or veal can be cooked in this same 
manner. When veal is used, fry out two slices of 
pork, as there will not be much fat on the meat. Lamb 
and mutton must have some of the fat put one side ; 
as there is so much on these kinds of meat they are 
very gross. 

DUMPLINGS. 

One pint of flour measured before sifting, one half 
teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar, one half 
of salt, one of sugar. Put all into a sieve, mix thor- 
oughly, and run through the sieve ; then wet with a 
small cup of milk ; sprinkle a little flour on the board, 
turn the dough (which should have been stirred into 
a smooth ball with a spoon) on it, roll about half an 
inch thick, cut into small cakes, and cook ten minutes, 
as directed. Things to be carefully noted : That the 
dumplings boil just ten minutes ; that they do not sink 
too deep in the soup ; that the soup is boiling rapidly 
when they are put in ; that the cover fits tight on the 
pot, so that the steam shall not escape ; and that the 



'J 6 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMEATT AND COOKERY. 

pot boils all the time, so that the steam shall be kept 
up. These few directions carefully followed will in- 
sure success every time. 

ROAST MEAT. 

Put the meat rack into the baking pan ; wipe the 
meat with a wet towel ; lay it on the rack ; then sprinkle 
well (on all sides) with salt, pepper, and flour, letting 
the bottom of the pan get well covered with the flour 
an-d seasonings. Now put into a very hot oven for a 
few minutes, and when the flour begins to become a 
dark brown turn in hot water enough to cover the bot- 
tom of the pan ; close the oven door, and let the meat 
get well browned, but not scorched, on one side ; then 
baste with the gravy from the pan, dredge with flour 
and brown again. Now turn the meat over, baste 
with gravy, dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, and 
brown on this side. A piece of beef weighing six 
pounds will require forty minutes if it is desired rare, 
twenty minutes longer if well done. Mutton the same 
time. Lamb one hour and ten minutes. Veal two 
and a half hours. Pork three hours. Put the meat 
on a large hot dish ; take the rack from the pan ; 
skim all the fat from the gravy ; add half a cup of boil- 
ing water, if there is about that amount in the pan ; 
mix one teaspoonful of flour .with cold water enough 
to make a thin paste ; stir this into the boiling gravy ; 
season with salt and pepper, if you like it ; strain and 
serve. Remember that you must keep adding water 
to the pan all the time the meat is roasting, as the bot- 
tom of the pan should be covered all the time j and 
yet if there is too much water in the pan at once it 



^OAST MEAT. 7/ 

Steams the meat. Never roast meat without having 
a rack in the pan, because if the meat is put into 
the water it becomes soggy, and has no good flavor. 
Putting salt on fresh meat draws out the juices, and it 
would not be well to use it if the flour were not used 
also ; but the flour makes a paste which keeps all the 
juices in the meat, and also help enrich and brown it; 
so that by using both salt and flour we get a rich, 
well -seasoned piece of meat, which we could not by 
either alone. A very poor piece of meat may be 
greatly improved by constant basting. Beef requires 
that it shall be cooked either a very little or a great 
deal to be good. Between the two extremes it is 
always hard and indigestible, — unless, of course, the 
pieces are choice, like the tenderloin and sirloin. The 
choicest and most expensive parts of the beef are the 
tenderloin, the sirloin, the five ribs called the fore rib 
from the fore quarter, and the middle ribs. All the 
cheap parts of the beef are good for stews and soups, 
and this is the most economical mode of cooking all 
meats, as in this way nothing is lost. Two pounds of 
meat will make a good dinner for a family of six or 
eight when made into a stew, the same piece of meat 
not being enough for four if fried or roasted ; besides 
if the meat is tough it is so much more easily digested 
when stewed. The cheapest parts of the beef are the 
neck, the flank, the shin, the heart, and the liver. 
Good ox beef has a fine grain, yellowish-whrte fat, and 
a bright red color. Cow beef has white fat, and the 
color is a paler red than the ox beef. It is not rich 
and juicy like ox beef. Mutton and lamb should have 
tne fat white and the meat firm. The meat should be 



y8 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

dark. Veal should be firm to the touch, and at least 
three months old before being killed. The fore quar- 
ter of the three last-mentioned meats is always the 
cheapest. Steaks are cut from the sirloin, the tender- 
loin, the rump, and the round. The most economical 
is the round steak, and when the beef is large and ten- 
der, and the steak cut from the top of the round, it is 
a very delicious piece of meat. 

BROILING. 

For broiling the fire must be clear ; coals from a 
hard-wood fire or charcoal are best, but the most com- 
mon fires for broiling are the hard coal. Beefsteak 
should be cut three fourths of an inch thick, sprinkled 
with salt, pepper, and flour, put in toaster, and placed 
over the fire ; as soon as it begins to brown on one 
side, which should be in two minutes, turn and brown 
on the other side ; keep turning every few minutes 
until done, which should be in ten minutes if the steak 
is to be rare, but fifteen if well done. Now place on 
a warm dish, butter, and send to the table instantly. 
Chops are broiled in the same way, omitting the flour. 
Never use a fork to turn chops or steak, as much of 
the jujces of the meat is lost that way. When there 
are no coals over which a steak or chop can be broiled, 
heat the frypan very hot, and put into it about a tea- 
spoonful of butter to prevent the steak from sticking \ 
then put in the steak, and cook about the same time as 
if broiling over the coals. Fish is broiled in the same 
way, only that the broiler must have a little pork or 
butter rubbed over it before the fish is put on. It 
must, however, broil more slowly than beefsteak or 



GRAHAM MUFFINS. 79 

chops, and therefore longer. Halibut is very much im- 
proved by standing an hour in melted butter or olive 
oil before being broiled. All fish that is split must 
have the inside put to the fire first, and when that be- 
gins to look a handsome brown the side on which the 
skin is should be turned to the fire. Care must be 
taken that the skin does not scorch, as it does so very 
readily. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes, and let them stand in cold water 
an hour or two ; then put them on in a kettle, which has 
a close cover, with boiling water enough to cover them. 
Let them boil fifteen minutes ; then for every twelve 
potatoes add one table-spoonful of salt, and boil fifteen 
minutes longer. Now pour oft" all the water ; set the 
kettle on the back part of the stove, with a clean towel 
over the potatoes, for three minutes, that they may 
diy and yet have the steam pass off. Sha'ke them 
up and turn into a hot dish, and send to the table 
immediately. It takes them half an hour to boil, five 
minutes to dry and be served ; so that you want to 
put them on just thirty-five minutes before time for 
sitting down to the table. No vegetable requires more 
care in boiling than the potato, and yet none gets 
less. Remember, the water must be boiling when the 
potatoes go into it, and must boil all the time they 
are on the fire ; that the water must be poured off as 
soon as they are done ; and that they must be served 
as soon as dry. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Materials. — One pint Graham, one pint flour, one 
pint milk, one half cup of sugar, one teaspoon of salt, 
one of soda, two of cream of tartar, two eggs. 



8o HOUSEHOLD MAiVAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

Put Graham in the mixing bowl. Put flour, sugar, 
salt, soda, and cream of tartar in the sieve; mix all 
thoroughly; then pass through sieve into the Graham ; 
mix all well with the hands. Beat the eggs very light 
in another bowl ; add the milk to them ; now pour this 
on the dry ingredients, and beat up well. Have the 
muffin pans well greased, and put a large table-spoon- 
ful of the batter into each cup ; bake twenty minutes 
in a quick oven. This will make twenty-four. Rye 
and Indian are made in the same manner. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Materials. — One pint of stale bread, one quart of 
sweet milk, one teaspoon of salt, three table-spoons of 
sugar, two eggs. 

Soak bread and milk together for two hours ; then 
mash all up fine with the back of the spoon ; beat 
eggs, sugar, and salt together, and add to the bread 
and milk ; turn into the pudding dish, and bake in a 
slow oven for forty-five minutes. Run a knife or the 
handle of a spoon down the centre of the pudding, 
and if it does not look milky it is done. Serve with 
cream sauce. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One ^gg^ half a cup of powdered sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of milk, half a teaspoonful of vanilla or 
lemon extract. 

Beat the white of the ^gg to a stiff froth ; then beat 
m the sugar, then the yolk of the ^gg and the flavor- 
ing, and last, the milk. Serve immediately, as it spoils 
by standing. 



THIRD LESSON. 

Materials for Less 071. — One quart can of tomatoes, 
four or five pounds of fish, three potatoes, one turnip, 
one carrot, three onions, one clove, quarter of a pound 
of pork, two and half quarts of milk, one cup of mo- 
lasses, three large crackers, two stalks of celery, one 
^g^^ six pounds of beef, one pound of liver, four table- 
spoonfuls of butter, pepper, salt, half a table-spoonful 
of parsley, three table-spoonfuls of Indian meal. 

POT-AU-FEU. 

Six pounds of beef, half a pound of liver, one large 
carrot, one large turnip, one and a half table-spoonfuls 
of salt, one clove, two onions, one stalk of celery, five 
quarts of water. Let the beef be any of the cheap 
pieces. Wipe clean, and put into the soup kettle with 
four quarts of cold water. Let it come to a boil very 
slowly, and skim ; then add the salt and liver, and set 
where it will simmer for two hours, every half hour 
adding one cup of cold water, and as soon as the soup 
comes to the boiling point skim carefully. After two 
hours add the clove and vegetables, and simmer two 
hours longer. Skim off all the fat, turn some of the 
clear soup into the tureen, and dish the meat and 
vegetables on a large platter ; placing the meat in the 
centre, and slicing the vegetables and placing them 
6 



82 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

around it for a garnish. There will be soup enough 
for two days. 

BAKED FISH. 

Materials. — Any large fresh fish weighing from 
four to five pounds, three large crackers, quarter of a 
pound of pork, two table-spoonfuls of salt, quarter of a 
teaspoonful of pepper, half a table-spoonful of pars- 
ley, two table-spoonfuls of flour. 

Scrape and wash the fish clean, and rub into it one 
table-spoonful of salt ; roll the crackers fine, and add 
to them the parsley, half the pepper, half a table- 
spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of chopped pork, 
and an eighth of a cup of water. Put this into the 
fish, and fasten it together with a skewer. Now cut 
gashes across the fish, about half an inch deep and 
two inches long ; cut the remainder of the pork into 
strips and put them in the gashes. Now dredge well 
with flour. Put a tin sheet in a baking pan, lay the 
fish on this, cover the bottom of the pan with hot 
water, put in a rather hot oven, and bake one hour, 
basting very often with the gravy in the pan, and each 
time dredging with salt, pepper, and flour. The wa- 
ter must be renewed in the pan very often. When 
done, lift the fish out of the pan on the tin, and slide 
it carefully on the platter. Now set the baking pan 
on top of the stove, and if there is not gravy enough 
to make half a pint, add more water. Mix one tea- 
spoonful of flour with cold water; stir it into the 
boiling gravy, season, and serve on the dish with the 
fish. 



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 83 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Materials. — One quart can tomatoes, two heaping 
table-spoonfuls of flour, one table-spoonful of butter, 
one teaspoon of salt, one of sugar, one pint of hot 
water. Let tomatoes and water come to a boil ; rub 
flour, butter, and one spoonful of tomato together \ 
stir into boiling mixture; add seasoning. Boil all to- 
gether fifteen minutes; rub through a sieve, and serve- 
with toasted bread. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Materials. — Three potatoes, one pint of milk, halt 
an onion, one stalk of celery, one half table-spoonful 
of butter, one teaspoon of salt, one eighth of pep- 
per. 

Pare potatoes and cover with boiling water ; boil 
thirty minutes. While potatoes are boiling cut up 
onion and celery, and put on to boil with milk. When 
potatoes are done drain, and mash light aiid fine ; then 
turn boiling milk on them ; rub through a sieve, and 
serve immediately. This soup spoils if it is let stand, 
and is not good even when kept hot, but is very deli- 
cious if eaten as soon as cooked. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Materials. — One third cup of Indian meal, one cup 
of molasses, two and one half table-spoonfuls of but- 
ter, two table-spoonfuls of salt, one egg, two qi; iitsof 
milk. 

Let one quart of the milk come to a boil. Pour the 
boiling milk gradually on the meal, stirring all the 



84 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

time; when perfectly smooth turn back mto the boiler 
(which must be set into another of boiling water) 
and cook thirty minutes, stirring often. Now add the 
molasses, two table -spoonfuls of the butter, the cold 
milk, the &gg^ and salt. Butter a deep earthen dish, 
pour the mixture in, and bake in a moderate oven 
two and a half hours. 




^^M 


1 




SMM^^^ 


^^M 



FOURTH LESSON. 

Materials. — One pound of cold meat, one and a half 
pints of cooked salt-fish, two quarts of potatoes, one 
ounce of pork, four fifths of a cup of flour, three 
quarts of milk, three cups of Indian meal, three cups 
of rye, one half a cup of molasses, teaspoonful of 
soda, salt, pepper, two eggs, one cup of sugar, one 
table-spoonful of vinegar, fat for frying, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one cup of oatmeal, one cup of 
hominy. 

MEAT HASH. 

Chop fine any kind of cold meat (before chopping 
dredge with salt and pepper. This is always the best 
manner of seasoning hash, as by this means all parts 
will be seasoned alike). If you have cold potatoes, 
chop fine and mix with the meat ; if they are hot, 
mash. Allow one third meat to two thirds potato. 
Put this mixture in the frypan with a little water to 
moisten it, and stir in a spoonful of butter ; or, if you 
have nice beef drippings, use that instead of butter. 
Heat slowly, stirring often, and when warmed through 
cover, and let it stand on a moderately hot part of the 
stove or range twenty minutes. When ready to serve, 
fold as you would an omelet, and dish. Save all the 
trimmings and pieces that are left of all kinds of meat, 



86 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

and have a hash once or twice a week. It does not 
hurt a hash to have different kinds of meat in it 
Avoid having a hash (or indeed any other part of 
your cooking) greasy. It is a great mistake to think 
that seasoning anything highly with butter improves 
it ; on the contrary, it often ruins it by disguising the 
natural flavor, and giving you an unhealthy dish. I 
have nothing to say against a moderate use of butter 
in cooking, but I do strongly protest against the im- 
moderate use of it in soups, gravies, hashes, stews, 
and on meats and fish of all kinds. 

FISH BALLS. 

Chop very fine half a pint of cooked salt-fish (you 
will find the rule for cooking salt-fish in the chapter 
on fish). Boil six good-sized potatoes, and turn them 
into the tray, with the fish, as soon as they are done ; 
now mash them light and fine with the potato-masher ; 
mix thoroughly with the fish ; taste to see if salt 
enough ; add one table-spoonful of butter, and one 

^ZZi if y^^ ^i^^j ^^^ ^^^^y ^^'^^ ^^ good without either. 
Shape into round balls about the size of an ^gg, and 
fry in boiling fat until they are a handsome brown. 
It will take about five minutes. If you like them 
very moist use one quarter of a cup of milk. 

FISH HASH. 

One half pint of finely chopped salt- fish, six good- 
sized cold-boiled potatoes chopped fine, one half cup 
of mJlk or water, salt and pejDper to taste. Have two 
ounces of pork cut in thin slices and fried brown; 
take the pork out of the frypan, and pour some of 



MINUTE PUDDING. 87 

the gravy over the hash ; mix all thoroughly, and then 
turn into the frypan, even it over with a knife, cover 
tight, and let it stand where it will brown slowly for 
half an hour ; then fold over, turn out on the platter, 
and garnish with the salt pork. 

OATMEAL MUSH. 

Oatmeal, Indian meal, and hominy all require two 
things to make them perfect : that is, plenty of water 
when first put on to boil, and a long time to boil. 
Have two quarts of boiling water in a saucepan, and 
stir into it one cup of oatmeal ; let it boil one hour ; 
then add a generous half table-spoonful of salt. Boil 
one hour longer, stirring often. 

HOMINY. 

Wash in two waters one cup of hominy, stir it into 
a quart of boiling water, add a table-spoonful of salt, 
and boil from thirty to sixty minutes. Sixty are better 
than thirty. Stir often, and be careful that it does not 
burn. The fine hominy cooks more quickly than the 
coarse. To be eaten as a vegetable with meat, with 
butter and sugar, or with milk. It is much more nu- 
tritious than rice. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, one of water, nine table-spoon- 
fuls of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two eggs. Set 
the milk into a basin of hot water, and when it comes 
to a boil add to it one pint of boiling water. Have 
ready the flour, made into a smooth paste with one 
cup of milk, and mix with this paste, after they are 



88 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

well beaten, the two eggs. Now take the basin in 
which the milk and water are, and set upon the fire ; 
let it boil up once, and then stir in the thickening ; 
beat it well, that it may be smooth, and cook three 
"winutes longer. Serve with vinegar sauce. 

VINEGAR SAUCE. 

One cup of boiling water, one of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one of vinegar, and a little nutmeg. 
Mix the flour with a little cold water, and stir into the 
boiling sugar and water ; then stir in the vinegar and 
nutmeg, and boil twenty minutes. Wine sauce is 
very good made in this manner, using wine instead of 
vinegar. Season with a little salt. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Very. nice. Three cups of Indian meal, three of 
rye, one half of molasses, one table-spoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus ; wet with one and one 
fourth quarts of milk. Steam five or six hours. This 
will make enough to fill a two-quart pan. 




FIFTH LESSON. 

Materials, — Six pounds fish, five potatoes, one large 
onion, three fourths pound pork, one and one half 
pounds beef, twelve large apples, one cup molasses, 
three and one half cups rice, one cup raisins, four 
and one fourth quarts milk, one table-spoonful cinna- 
mon, one quart flour, four table-spoonfuls butter, two 
and one fourth cups sugar, six crackers, salt, pepper, 
one teaspoon cream of tartar, one half soda, flavoring, 
three eggs. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Take either a cod or haddock ; skin it (loosen the 
skin about the head, and draw it down towards the 
tail, when it will peel off easily). Then run your knife 
down the back close to the bone, which you take out. 
Cut your fish in small pieces and wash in cold water. 
Put the head and bones on to boil in two quarts of 
hot water ; have five potatoes pared and sliced thin ; 
put a layer of potatoes and then one of fish in the 
kettle ; dredge well with salt, pepper, and flour ; keep 
putting in alternate layers of potatoes and fish until 
all is used. Take about one and one half table-spoon- 
fuls of salt in all, one half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
and one small cup of flour. Fry brown half a pound 
of salt pork, and then add to it the onion cut in thin 



go HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

slices ; fry slowly for ten minutes ; now pour all through 
a strainer, over the fish and potatoes, pressing all the 
gravy through ; then pour on the pork and onions in 
the strainer one pint of hot water, to get all the good- 
ness out of them. Now strain the water in which 
the head and bones were boiled into the pot, cover, 
and let simmer gently ten minutes \ then taste to see 
if seasoned enough ; if not add more ; and also five 
crackers. Cover, and simmer ten minutes longer. 
Serve. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

One and one half pounds beef, cut very thin. Trim 
off the edges and the fat ; now cut into strips three 
inches wide and four long; season well with salt and 
pepper ; chop the trimmings and the fat very fine ; 
add to it three table-spoonfuls of powdered cracker, 
one teaspoonful of sage and savory mixed, one fourth 
of a teaspoonful of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt. 
Mix all very thoroughly, and spread on the strips of 
beef; then roll them up, and tie with twine. When 
all are done roll in flour. Have a quarter of a pound 
of pork fried brown ; take the pork out of the pan 
and put the olives in ; fry brown, then put them in 
a small saucepan that can be covered tight. Now 
into the fat remaining in the pan put one table-spoon- 
ful of flour, and stir until perfectly smooth and brown ; 
then pour in gradually nearly a pint and a half of 
boiling water. Stir for two or three minutes, season 
to taste with pepper and salt, pour over the olives, 
cover the saucepan, and simmer two hours. Take up 
and cut the strings with a sharp knife ; place them in 
a row on the dish, and pour the gravy over them. 



BOILED RICE PUDDING. 9 1 

VEAL OLIVES. 

Veal olives are made in the same manner, except 
that a dressing like chicken dressing is made for them. 
For one and a half pounds of veal take three crackers, 
half a table-spoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of 
savory, one fourth of sage, one teaspoonful of salt, a 
very little pepper, and one eighth of a cujd of water. 
Spread the strips with this and proceed as for beef 
olives. 

BOILED RICE PUDDING. 

Pick and wash clean one cupful of rice, and put 
into a basin with a pint and a half of cold water ; set 
on the stove where it will cook slowly, or, better 
still, set into another basin of water, and cook slowly. 
When the rice has absorbed all the water, turn on it 
one quart of new milk, and stir in one table-spoonful 
of salt ; let this cook two hours, stirring often. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

BOILED RICE PUDDING, NO. 2. 

Pick and wash one cup of rice, and boil in one 
quart of boiling water fifteen minutes, and then drain 
dry. Wring a pudding-cloth out of boiling water, and 
spread in a deep dish, and turn the rice into it, and 
sprinkle in one cup of raisins and a table-spoonful of 
salt ; tie the cloth loosely that the rice may have room 
to swell, and boil tw d hours. Serve with lemon sauce, 
or sugar and cream. 



92 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 
BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Boil half a cup of rice in one pint of water thirty 
minutes, and then add one quart of new milk, and 
boil thirty minutes longer ; then beat together one cup 
of sugar, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and a 
little lemon or nutmeg; stir this into the rice and turn 
the mixture into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake 
thirty minutes. To be eaten without sauce. 

BAKED RICE PUDDING, NO. 2. 

Pick and wash one cup of rice ; put it into a dish 
that will hold two quarts or more, mix with it two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, one table-spoonful of cinnamon, 
four of sugar, and three pints of milk. Set this in 
a moderate oven, and stir once in every half hour. 
After it has been baking two hours, stir in one pint 
more of milk, and bake one hour longer. 

APPLE DOWDY. 

Pare and quarter about one dozen good tart apples, 
put them in a kettle with one cup of molasses, a small 
piece of butter, and one pint of hot water. Set this 
on the fire, let it come to a boil, and while it is heat- 
ing make a paste with one pint of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, one half of saleratus, and a small 
cup of milk ; roll this large enough to fit into the ket- 
tle, and when the mixture begins to boil put the paste 
in, cover tight, and boil gently twenty minutes. To 
be eaten without sauce. This is very nice when the 
apples are tart and it is made well. 



LEMON SAUCE. 93 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Beat to a froth one table-spoonful of butter, one 
cup of sugar, one table-spoonful of corn starch, and 
two eggs. When very smooth and light add one cup 
of boiling water. Set the basin into boiling water, 
and stir five minutes. Season with half a teaspoonful 
of lemon, and serve. 




^^Ej 


^ 


M 


H 


M 



SIXTH LESSON. 

Mate?'ials. — Two cups of molasses, one cup of In- 
dian meal, three table-spoonfuls of butter, two quarts 
of milk, three and a half cups of sugar, one and three 
fourths quarts of flour, one teaspoonful of ginger, two 
and a half teaspoonfuls of soda, three teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, salt, seasoning. 

SOFT MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
one of ginger, one table-spoonful of butter or lard, a 
pinch of salt, if you use lard. Stir this together, and 
then pour on one half a cup of boiling water, and stir 
in one pint of flour. Bake about one inch deep in a 
sheet. This is very nice if pains are taken to have 
the water boiling, and to beat it well when the flour 
is added. 

SPONGE-CAKE. 

Three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, two of 
flour, one half of cold water, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one half of saleratus. Beat the sugar and 
eggs together, and add the water when they are light, 
then the flour, in which mix the saleratus and cream 
of tartar. Flavor with lemon, and bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes. This will make two sheets of 
cake. 



VEGETABLES. 95 



CREAM PIES. 

Make the crust the same as sponge-cake, and bake 
in four deep tin pans. When cool split in two with a 
sharp knife, and fill with the cream filling. 

FILLING FOR CREAM PIES. 

One pint of new milk, one cup of sugar, half a cup 
of flour, two eggs. Put the basin in which the milk 
is into another of hot water. Beat the sugar, flour, 
and eggs together until they are light and smooth, 
and when the milk boils stir in with one teaspoonful 
of salt. Cook twenty minutes, stirring often. Flavor 
with lemon. This will fill four pies. The pint of 
milk must be generous, and the half cup of flour 
scant. 

WASHINGTON PIES. 

Make the crust the same as for cream pies, and fill 
with any kind of jam or jelly. If you wish, you caa 
make one pan of cake and two pies from this rule. 

WHITPOT PUDDING. 

One cup of Indian meal, one of molasses, a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Scald thoroughly with one cup of 
boiling water. Add a quart of milk ; pour into the 
baking-dish and bake one hour, stirring thoroughly at 
least twice while it is baking. Let it get about half 
cool before you serve it. 

VEGETABLES. 

It is impossible in a book of this kind to give rules 
for the cooking of every kind of a vegetable, but we 



96 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

will give some general rules which will cover them 
all. 

Green Vegetables. — All green vegetables must be 
washed thoroughly in cold water, and then be dropped 
into water which has been salted and is just begin- 
ning to boil. There should be a table-spoonful of 
salt for every two quarts of water. If the water boils 
a long time before the vegetables are put in it has 
lost all its gases, and the mineral ingredients are de- 
posited on the bottom and sides of the kettle, so that 
the water is flat and tasteless, the vegetables will not 
look green and have a fine flavor. The time of boil- 
ing green vegetables depends very much upon the 
age, and how long they have been gathered. The 
younger and more freshly gathered the more quickly 
they are cooked. 

TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes, boiled 30 minutes. 

*' baked 45 minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, boiled 45 minutes. 

" " baked 60 minutes. 

Squash, boiled 25 minutes. 

" baked 45 minutes. 

Green peas, boiled 20 to 40 minutes. 

Shelled beans, boiled 60 minutes. 

String beans, boiled i to 2 hours. 

Green corn 25 to 60 minutes. 

Asparagus 15 to 30 minutes. 

Spinach . I to 2 hours. 

Tomatoes, fresh i hour. 

" canned \ hour. 

Cabbage . | to 2 hours. 

Cauliflower i to 2 hours. 

Dandelions 2 to 3 hours. 



TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 97 

Beet greens i hour. 

Onions I to 2 hours. 

Beets I to 5 hours. 

Turnips, white . ...... 45 to 60 minutes. 

" yellow i^ to 2 hours. 

Parsnips i to 2 hours. 

Carrots i to 2 hours. 

Nearly all these vegetables are eaten dressed with 
salt, pepper, and butter, but sometimes a small piece 
of lean pork is boiled with them, and seasons them 
sufficiently. 




Bf^^^^S 




P& 


^^ 


WyiBBl 


^m^^^W 


^^^^^^^ 


^ 




■jj^Mi 


^^^^ 


R^^^ 


^ 




^^1 


Kifsi^^ 


g^^^^^ 


^ 







SEVENTH LESSON. 

Materials. — Two quarts of beans, one and a half 
pounds of salt pork, eight potatoes, one beet, one 
turnip, one carrot, one onion, three eggs, one head of 
lettuce, four table-spoonfuls of oil, one large cup of 
vinegar, one cup of milk, one table-spoonful of mus- 
tard, salt, pepper, one table-spoonful of molasses. 

SALADS. 

Salads are quickly and easily made, and can be 
prepared from almost any of the cold vegetables. 
We do not give in this lesson (for practice) any of 
the rich salads, but shall give a few receipts that the 
pupils may use if the teacher thinks best. In that 
case the plain salads must be omitted. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

Three table-spoonfuls of oil, one table-spoonful of 
vinegar, one saltspoonful of salt, one half of pep- 
per. Put the salt and pepper in a cup and then add 
one table-spoonful of the oil ; when all is thoroughly 
mixed add the remainder of the oil and the vinegar. 
This is dressing enough for a salad for six persons. 
If you like the flavor of onion, grate a little of the 
juice in the dressing.^ 

1 Onion juice is got by first peeling the onion and then grating 



SALADS. 99 

BOILED SALAD DKESSING. 

Three eggs, one table-spoonful of oil, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one table-spoonful of mustard, scant, 
one table-spoonful of salt, one teacup of milk, one 
teacup of vinegar. 

Put oil, salt, mustard, and sugar into a bowl, stii 
until perfectly smooth, then add the eggs, beat well • 
now add vinegar, then milk ; now place the bowl in ? 
basin of boiling water, and stir until it thickens like 
soft custard. The time of cooking dejDcnds upon the 
thickness of the bowl. If it is a common white bow! 
and the water is boiling when it is placed in it ami 
kept boiling all the time, it will take from eight to ten 
minutes, but if the bowl is very thick it will take from 
twelve to fifteen minutes. This will keep two weeks 
if bottled tight and kept in a cool place. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Six potatoes, one half of a small turnip, one half of 
a carrot, one small beet. Cut potatoes into sm^il 
slices, the beet a little finer, and the turnip and canot 
very fine ; chop (with a sharp knife) a spoonful of 
green parsley. Mix all thoroughly, sprinkle wi:h a 
scant teaspoonful of salt, unless the vegetables were 
salted in cooking, and then add the whole French 
dressing or half a cup of the boiled dressing. Keep 
very cool until it is served. 

with a coarse grater, using a good deal of pressure. Two strokes 
will give about two drops of juice, which will be about enough foi 
the above rule. 



100 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY, 
POTATO SALAD. 

Ten potatoes cut fine, the French dressing, with 
four or five drops of onion juice in it, one table-spoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Two small or one large heads of lettuce; break all 
the leaves off carefully and wash each one separately 
and then throw them in a pan of ice water, where 
they should stand at least an hour ; then put them in 
a wire basket. or a coarse towel and shake out all the 
water. Either cut with a very sharp knife or tear into 
large pieces. Mix the French dressing with this and 
serve immediately. Beets, cucumbers, tomatoes, cauli- 
flower, asparagus, etc., can be each served as a salad 
with the French or boiled dressing. Cold, potatoes 
and cold beef, mutton or lamb, cut up fine and fin- 
ished with either dressing, .make a nice salad. 

ADDITIONAL SALADS. 

RICH SALAD DRESSING. 

One table-spoonful of mustard, one table-spoonful 
of sugar, one tenth of a teaspoonful of cayenne pep- 
per, one teaspoonful of salt, yolks of three uncooked 
eggs, juice of half a lemon, one quarter of a cup o/' 
vinegar, one pint of oil, one cup of whipped cream. 

Beat yolks of eggs and the dry ingredients (until, 
they are very light and thick) either with a silver or 
wooden spoon, or, better still, with a second sized 
Dover beater ; then add a few drops of oil at a time 



BAKED BEANS. lOI 

nntil it becomes very thick and rather hard : after it 
has come to that stage the oil can be added more 
rapidly. When it gets so thick that the beater turns 
hard, add a Uttle vinegar. When the last of the oil 
and vinegar is added it should be very thick. Now 
add the lemon juice and the whipped cream, and set 
away on the ice for a few hours, unless you are ready 
to use it. The bowl in which the dressing is made 
should set in a pan of ice water all the time it is be- 
ing beaten. The cream may be omitted. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Lobster salad is made by cutting the lobster rather 
fine with a sharp knife ; then, for every quart of lob- 
ster, mixing two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one half of pepper, and seasoning the lob- 
ster with it. Now set away on the ice for an hour or 
two. Prepare the lettuce the same as for lettuce 
salad ; add to the lobster, at the time of serving, in the 
proportion of half as much lettuce as lobster ; season 
to taste with dressing. About half a pint of dressing 
to three pints of salad. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Made the same as lobster, using chicken instead of 
lobster, and celery instead of lettuce. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Examine and wash one quart of dry beans (the pea 
bean is the best for baking), and put them in a pan 
with six quarts of cold water; let them soak over 
night. In the morning wash them in another water, 



I02 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

and place them on the fire with six quarts of cold 
water and a pound of mixed salt pork. If they are 
the present year's beans they will cook enough in half 
an hour, if older one hour. Drain, and put half of 
them in the bean-pot ; then put in the pork which you 
have scored, and now the remainder of the beans, one 
table-spoonful of salt, and one of molasses ; cover with 
boiling water. Bake very slowly for ten hours, adding 
boiling water whenever the beans begin to grow dry. 

STEWED BEANS. 

Wash and soak over night one quart of beans (scar- 
let runners are the best). In the morning set them on 
the fire with half a pound of mixed salt pork. They 
will cook in four hours, but are better cooked five ; 
if the pork does not flavor it enough season with a 
little salt. 




EIGHTH LESSON. 
POULTRY. 

TO CLEAN POULTRY. 

First singe over blazing paper or alcohol ; then 
cut off the feet and tips of the wings, and the neck 
as far as it looks dark ; then, with the blade of a knife 
take out all the pin-feathers ; turn the skin of the 
neck back, and with the forefinger and thumb draw 
out the crop and windpipe ; cut a slit in the lower part 
of the fowl, and draw out the intestines, being care- 
ful not to break the gall-bag, as it will spoil the flavor 
of the meat. It will be found near the upper part 
of the breast-bone and attached to the liver. ' Wash 
thoroughly in several waters, and drain. If the poul- 
try is at all strong, let it stand in water several hours, 
with either charcoal or saleratus. Split the gizzard, 
and take out the inside and inner lining ; wash, and 
put on to boil in two quarts of cold water (this for the 
gravy). 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Prepare as directed ; make a dressing with six 
pounded crackers, one teaspoonful of pepper, one 
table-spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sage, one of 
summer savory, one of parsley, two eggs, butter the 



104 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

size of an &^g^ and cold water to moisten ; stuff the 
turkey with this ; stuff the breast first, and the re- 
mainder put in the body. Now cross and tie the legs 
down tight ; run a skewer through the wings, fastening 
them to the body ; fasten the neck under the body with 
a skewer, and tie all with twine. Rub the turkey 
with salt, and spit it : baste often with the drippings 
and flour, and occasionally with butter. About fifteen 
minutes before dishing baste with butter, and dredge 
on a little flour ; this will give it a frothy appearance. 
For eight pounds, allow one hour and three quarters, 
if roasted in the tin-kitchen ; if in the oven, one hour 
and a half, and fifteen minutes for every pound more. 
Serve with giblet gravy and cranberry sauce. 

To make the gravy: Boil the heart, gizzard, liver, 
and neck in two quarts of water two hours ; then 
take them up and chop the gizzard and heart, braid 
the liver, and put them back again ; thicken with one 
table-spoonful of flour wet with cold water ; season 
with salt and pepper. Let this simmer one hour 
longer, and when you dish the turkey turn the drip- 
pings into this gravy ; boil up once, and send to the 
table. Make all the gravy for poultry in this man- 
ner, omitting the chopped gizzards in chicken gravy. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Prepare, stuff, and truss the same as turkey. A 
pair of chickens, weighing each two and a half pounds, 
will require an hour and a quarter to roast if in the 
tin-kitchen ; one hour, if in the oven. 



POULTRY. lo; 



ROAST GOOSE. 



Prepare as directed for poultry, and stuff the body 
with a dressing made in the following manner : Pare 
and boil ten potatoes ; mash them and mix with one 
fourth of an onion chopped fine one table-spoonful of 
sage, one of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, a small 
piece of butter. Truss, and roast (if it weighs ten 
pounds) one hour and three quarters if in the tin- 
kitchen, but if in the oven one hour and a half. Make 
the gravy as for turkey, and serve with apple sauce. 

Skim off all the fat before putting the drippings in 
the gravy. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Prepare the dressing as for goose, and roast before 
a hot fire forty minutes, or if in the oven have it very 
hot and roast thirty minutes. Serve with either apple- 
sauce or currant jelly. Make gravy the same as for 
turkey. 

This time cooks the goose and ducks rare. 

ROAST PARTRIDGES. 

Clean and truss ; then lard and roast thirty min- 
utes. Serve with currant jelly. To make the gravy : 
Piit one table-spoonful of butter into a basin, and 
when it boils up stir in one table-spoonful of dry 
flour ; stir until a dark brown ; then pour on half a 
pint of boiling water. Season with salt, pepper, the 
partridge drippings, and a table-spoonful of currant 
jelly. Or, serve with bread sauce, the rule for which 
you will find under sauces. 

To lard a bird : Cut fat salt pork into thin, narrow 



T 06 HO USE HOLD MAN A GEMENT AND CO OKER Y, 

slices, and put one end of the slice through the eye of 
a larding needle. (You can obtain one at any kitchen 
furnishing store.) Now run the needle under the 
skin of the bird, and draw the pork* half way through, 
having the pieces about an inch apart. 

ROAST GROUSE. 

If you stuff them, make the dressing the same as 
for turkey ; but they are not often stuffed. Roast 
thirty minutes, and serve with currant jelly. The 
gravy made the same as before directed. 

ROAST PIGEONS. 

Lard and roast the same as partridges. Make the 
gravy the same, with the addition of one fifth of a 
teaspoonful of clove and half a wineglassful of claret. 
The pigeons must be young, or they will not be nice 
roasted. 

SMALL BIRDS. 

Woodcock, quail, snipe, and plover may be cooked 
in the same manner as partridges, allowing fifteen 
minutes to roast. Serve on toast. 




^^ 


1^^ 


KJ^^)S''*^S 


M 


1 


1 


^^ 


J^^m 


^^ 


^m"to J 


m 


1 




^^ 


rlXSm 


if'^^B^ 




^M 


i 


St 


Sm^A 



NINTH LESSON. 



SAUCES. 



DRAWN BUTTER. 



, Beat one cup of butter and two table-spoonfuls of 
flour to a cream, and pour over this one pint of boil- 
ing water. Set on the fire and let it come to a boil, 
but do nof boil. Serve immediately. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Chop up two hard-boiled eggs, and stir into drawn 
butter. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Set a basin on the fire with half a pint of oysters 
and one pint of boiling water ; let them boil three 
minutes, and then stir in half a cup of butter beaten 
to a cream, with two table-spoonfuls of flour ; let this 
come to a boil, and serve. 



CELERY SAUCE. 

Chop fine two heads of celery, and boil one hour ; 
at the end of that time have about a pint and a half 
of water with it, and stir in two table-spoonfuls of 
flour wet with cold water. Boil this ten minutes, and 
then stir in two table-spoonfuls of butter. Season 
with pepper and salt, and serve. 



108 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 
CAPER SAUCE. 

Into a pint of drawn butter stir three table-spoon- 
fuls of capers. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Chop fine half a cupful of mint, and add to it a cup 
of vinegar and a table-spoonful of sugar. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One cup of milk, one teaspoonful of flour, one 
table-spoonful of butter, salt, pepper. 

Put one table spoonful of butter into a small frypan, 
and when it gets hot, but not brown, add the flour ; 
stir until perfectly smooth ; then add g?'adual/y the 
cold milk ; let it boil up once, season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and serve. This is nice to cut cold 
potatoes into and let them just heat through ; they 
are then called crea?ned potatoes ; also for a sauce for 
vegetables, for omelets, for fish, for sweet-breads, or, 
indeed, for anything that requires a white sauce. If 
you have plenty of cream use that and omit the butter. 

BREAD SAUCE, FOR GAME. 

Two cups of milk, one cup dried bread crumbs, one 
quarter of an onion, two table-spoonfuls of butter, 
salt, pepper. 

Dry the bread in a warm oven, and then roll into 
rather coarse crumbs ; now sift them, and the fine 
crumbs which come through the sieve, and which 
make about one third of a cupful ; put on to boil with 
the milk and onion ; boil ten or fifteen minutes, then 
add one table-spoonful of butter, and seasoning, skira 



SAUCES. 109 

out the onion. Fry the coarse crumbs a light crisp 
brown in one table-spoonful of butter, which must be 
very hot before the crumbs are added. Stir over a 
hot fire for two minutes, being careful not to burn. 
Cover the breast of the roast birds with these, and 
serve the sauce poured around the birds or in a 
gravy dish. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

. One quart of canned tomatoes, two table-spoonfuls 
of butter, two of flour, eight whole cloves, one small 
slice of onion. 

Cook tomatoes ten minutes with onion and cloves. 
Heat the butter in a small frypan and add the flour ; 
stir over the fire until smooth and brown ; then stir 
into the tomatoes, season to taste with salt and pep- 
per, rub through a strainer which is fine enough to 
keep back all the seeds. This sauce is nice for fish, 
meat, and macaroni. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

One half teacupful of butter, juice of half a lemon, 
}olks of two eggs, a speck of Cayenne pepper, one 
half cup of boiling water, one half teaspoonful of 
salt. 

Beat butter to a cream, then add yolks of eggs one 
by one, then lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Now 
place the bowl in which is the mixture in a saucepan 
of boiling water, beat with an ^^^ beater until it be- 
gins to thicken, which will be in about one minute ; 
then add boiling water, beating all the time ; as soon 
as it is like a soft custard it is done. It will take 
about five minutes over the fire if the bowl is thin 



no HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

and the water boils all the time. For fish and meats, 
to be poured around the article on the dish. 

MILK SAUCE FOR FISH. 

One and a half pints of milk, two table-spoonfuls of 
flour, one half of butter, one half of a small onion, 
two sprigs of parsley, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, 
a speck of pepper. 

Put a pint of milk on to boil, with the onion and 
parsley, mix the flour to a smooth paste with part of 
the half pint of milk ; then add the rest to make it 
very thin, and when the milk boils stir this into it ; let 
it boil ten minutes longer, then add butter and salt, 
and strain. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, quarter, and core nice tart apples. Make a 
syrup of two quarts of water and one cup of sugar ; 
simmer the apples in this until tender, but do not 
break them ; then lay in an earthen dish ; do this 
until they are all cooked (do not put many in the 
syrup at a time), and then let the syrup get cool, and 
turn on the apples. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Put the pears in a deep earthen dish or a baking 
pan, and to a dozen good-sized pears allow half a 
cup of sugar and a pint and a half of water. Bake 
in a moderate oven two hours and a half, or three. 
They will not keep many days cooked in this manner, 
but they are nice. Sweet apples are cooked in the 
same manner. 



SAUCES. Ill 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Wash the prunes in warm water and rub them well 
between the hands. Put them in a kettle that you 
can cover tight, with two quarts of water to one of 
prunes. Stew them gently two hours. These will 
not keep more than two days in warm weather, but 
cooked in this way they do not require any sugar, 
and are very nice. 

CODDLED APPLES. 

Pare and core with an apple corer, cook the same 
as for apple sauce ; but allow one pint of sugar to 
one quart of water. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pick and wash the cranberries, and put in the pre- 
serving kettle with half a pint of water to one quart 
of berries j now put the sugar on top of the berries, 
allowing a pint of sugar to a quart of berries. Set on 
the fire and stew about half an hour. Stir often to 
prevent burning. They will not need straining, and 
will preserve their rich color cooked in this way. 
Never cook cranberries before putting in the sugar. 
Less sugar may be used if you do not wish them very 
rich. 



TENTH LESSON. 



OMELETS. 



Beat lightly two eggs, and stir in one table-spoonful 
of milk and a pinch of salt. Heat the omelet pan hot, 
and then put in half a table-spoonful of butter, and 
when melted turn in the beaten eggs ; set on the fire, 
shake the pan, cook until a light brown ; then fold 
the omelet and serve on a hot dish. Ham, mush- 
room, lobster, chicken, and all kinds of omelets are 
made by chopping up the meat, and laying it between 
the folds before dishing. 

QUAKER OMELET. 

Three eggs, one and a half table-spoonfuls of corn 
starch, half a cup of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
one table-spoonful of butter. 

Put a good sized omelet or frypan, with a tin 
cover, on to heat. Beat the yolks of the eggs, the salt, 
und the corn starch together ; then beat the whites to 
a stiff froth, add to the yolks, then add the milk ; but- 
ter the hot pan with the table-spoonful of butter, pour 
the mixture in, and cover with the hot cover ; keep 
where it will not burn, but will brown, for about seven 
minutes, fold and serve oh a hot dish. This omelet is 
improved by having the cream sauce poured around it. 



6CALLOFED OYSTERS. I13 

OYSTER STEW. 

Drain all the liquor from the oysters ; put it into a 
porcelain kettle, and let it come to a boil ; then skim 
off all the scum. Now turn in the milk, which you 
have let come to a boil in hot water. (Allow one 
quart of milk to one pint of oysters.) Stir in also 
one table-spoonful of butter or more, salt and pepper 
to taste. Now put in the oysters, let them boil up 
once, and serve with a dish of oyster crackers. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Wash one quart of oysters, if they are solid, in one 
quart of cold water ; if not, one pint of water ; drain 
the water through a colander into the soup-kettle ; set 
the kettle on the fire, and when the liquor comes to a 
boil skim itj then add one quart of rich new milk j 
just before it comes to a boil, turn in the oysters, and 
thicken with two table-spoonfuls of corn starch wet 
with milk ; then stir in half a cup of butter, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Let this boil up once, and 
serve immediately. Be very careful that they do not 
burn. A safe way is to boil the milk in a basin, 
which is set into another of water, and then turn it on 
the oysters just before removing it from the fire. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put a layer of oysters in an oval dish, and dredge 
in a little salt and pepper, and lay on a few small 
pieces of butter ; then a layer of rolled crackers, and 
another of oysters ; dredge the oysters as before, and 
cover with cracker; over the cracker lay on small 
S 



114 ^O USEHOLD MANA GEMENT A ND COOKER \ \ 

pieces of butter. Bake twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. Allow four crackers, two table-spoonfuls of 
butter, and one teaspoonful of pepper to one quart of 
oysters. Fill the dish to within an inch of the top. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters on a sieve ; roll them in cracker 
crumbs, and fry in boiling lard a light brown. Serve 
on brown-bread toast. When you desire them fried 
in batter, make one as for apple fritters, and fry in 
boiling lard. Have the dishes very hot. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Prepare in crumbs as for frying, and broil a light 
brown. Examine oysters carefully to see that there 
are not pieces of shell among them. Some oysters 
need more salt than others. 

MACARONI, BOILED. 

Break up and wash a pint bowl full of macaroni, 
and put in a shallow basin, and cover with cold water. 
Set this basin into another of warm .water, and place 
on the fire; after fifteen minutes, add a pint of milk 
and a teaspoonful of salt ; let it cook ten minutes 
longer, then add a table- spoonful of butter, and cook 
five minutes more, and dish. Be careful not to break 
the macaroni in dishing. The boiled macaroni which 
remains from one dinner can be used for the next, by 
preparing it in the following manner : Butter a shal- 
low dish, and turn the macaroni into it ; than grate 
over it old cheese, and brown. 



STEAMED CUSTARDS. II5 

MILK TOAST. 

Put one quart of milk on to boil. Mix two table- 
spoonfuls of flour with half a cup of cold milk, stir 
this into the boiling milk and let it boil ten minutes, 
then add one table-spoonful of butter, and one large 
teaspoonful of salt. Now dip the bread in, and serve. 
The bread must be toasted as carefully for this as for 
dry toast. . The bread must be stale to make good 
toast. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

One quart milk, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, four 
eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg. 

Beat sugar, salt, and eggs together with a spoon, 
then add the milk. Fill the custard cups, grate on a 
little nutmeg, and place the cups in a deep baking pan, 
then nearly fill the pan with warm water. Bake in a 
moderate oven till firm in the centre. It will take 
from twenty to forty minutes to bake them, all de- 
pending upon the heat of the oven. The slower they 
bake the richer and smoother they will be. Try them 
by running a knife ' through the centre; if they are 
firm they are done. 

STEAMED CUSTARDS. 

Steamed custards are made the same as baked, 
only that they are steamed from twelve to fifteen min 
utes over a kettle of boiling water. 



ELEVENTH LESSON. 

SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

One of the things which every woman ought to 
know, no matter what her station in Hfe, is how to 
cook for the sick, and also how to care fox them and 
their rooms. Some of the first necessities of the 
sick are quiet, fresh air, and cleanHness ; the next is 
proper food, properly cooked, and given at the right 
time. Many persons wonder why they do not get well, 
and blame the physician for their long illness, when 
all the trouble is that they do not have fresh air 
enough, they are not bathed often enough, their own 
and the bed linen are not changed often enough. 
They see too many people, and their food is not of 
the right kind nor cooked properly. I am sure that 
many kind people would be terribly shocked if they 
were told that they had killed their friends, and yet it 
is being done every day simply by the neglect of the 
simplest remedies. Then remember and keep plenty 
of fresh air in the sick-room, keep it clean and quiet, 
wash the patient every day ; if there is fever use a lit- 
tle soda in the water, only wash a small part of the 
body at a time, and keep the rest covered. A sponge 
to wash with and a soft towel to wipe with, keep both 
sponge and towels perfectly clean and fresh. Do nof 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY W) 

uhisper or walk on tiptoes in a sick-room. If you 
have anything to say that you do not wish the patient 
to hear leave the room. There is nothing that is more 
trying to a sick person than to have a conversation 
which hs cannot understand going on in the room. 
If you employ a physician y^/Z^^z^/ his directions exactly ; 
if you cannot do that, it is just as well not to have 
one j remember that he has made the study and 
practice of medicine a life-work, and there is every 
reason for believing that he knows more about the 
case than you do. When the physician asks for a re- 
port of the symptoms of the patient, be sure that you 
give them, as far as you can remember, truthfully. 
These remarks may seem out of place in a lesson on 
cookery, but as sick-room cookery nearly always de- 
volves upon the person who takes care of the sick, it 
seems that this is as good as any place. 

Do not cook much of anything. A well person 
tires of one dish soon, and a sick person is much 
more liable to do so. Do not feel vexed if after much 
care and labor you have prepared an article and the 
patient will not touch it. Always keep in mind that a 
sick person is never reasonable, and do as you would 
be done by. Do not keep a patient waiting for his 
food. 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut half a pound of lean beef into very small pieces \ 
do not have a grain of fat on it, and put into a bottle 
that has a large opening (an olive or horseradish bot- 
tle will be nice) ; put in half a cup of cold water, and 
cork tight ; set this in a basin of cold water, and place 
on the fire where it will come to a boiling point, but 



Il8 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

not boil ; keep it at this temperature for two hours, 
then strain, and season with salt, 

ANOTHER BEEF TEA. 

Cut half a pound of lean beef (the round is the best) 
into dice. Put into a saucepan, with a teaspoonful 
of salt, one of flour, and one fourth of pepper. Pour 
on this a large pint of cold water. Let it stand an 
hour or two, then put on the fire ; bring slowly to a 
boil, and boil slowly for an hour. If it has boiled 
away too much, add a little hot water ; but this rather 
hurts it. Skim off carefully every particle of fat. 
This tea is more palatable than the other, and can 
be taken by those not extremely sick. 

SACK POSSET. 

Pound one Boston cracker, or one soda biscuit. 
Put it in a pint of cold milk ; set it on the fire, and 
simmer fifteen minutes. Beat together one &gg^ one 
wineglass of wine, a little sugar, salt, and nutmeg. 
Turn this into the simmering milk, stirring con- 
stantly ; boil up once, and take from the fire imme- 
diately. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Put the bones and about one pound of the lean 
meat of chicken into a saucepan with three pints of 
water. When it comes to a boil, skim well. Simmer 
three hours, and strain and salt. If the patient can 
bear it, a little rice or tapioca boiled with it is an im- 
provement. 



SICK-ROOM COOKER V. 1 1 9 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Into one quart of boiling water sprinkle two table- 
spoonfuls of oatmeal j let this boil forty minutes ; 
season with salt, strain, and serve. If sugar, milk, or 
cream is wished, it may be added. 

INDIAN MEAL GRUEL. 

One quart of "boiling water ; stir into this one table- 
spoonful of flour and two of Indian meal, mixed with 
a little cold water. Boil thirty minutes. Season with 
salt, and strain. Use sugar and cream if you choose. 
If flour is not liked use another table-spoonful of 
meal instead. 

PLUM PORRIDGE. 

Into one quart of boiling milk stir two table-spoon- 
fuls of flour mixed with cold milk ; put in a handful 
of raisins and a little grated nutmeg. Boil twenty 
minutes. Season with salt, and strain. 

CORN TEA. 

Brown, and pound in a mortar, one cup of sweet 
dry corn ; pour on this two cups of boiling water, and 
steep fifteen minutes. This is very light and nutri- 
tious, and can be taken when the patient is very 
weak; 

WINE WHEY. 

Let one cup of new milk come to boil, and then 
s;ir in half a wineglass of sherry wine. Boil a mo- 
ment and strain. 



120 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 



VINEGAR WHEY. 

Boil one cup of milk, and stir in one table-spoon- 
ful of vinegar j if this does not make it whey, stir in a 
little more j when it curdles, strain. 

SOUR MILK WHEY. 

To one cup of boiling sweet milk, add one cup of 
sour milk, and strain. 





TWELFTH LESSON. 

SICK-ROOM COOKERY.— Continued. 
BEEFSTEAK. 

Have a very small piece of sirloin steak cut rather 
thick. When everything is ready on the tray, put 
the steak over a clear coal fire to broil ; cook eight 
minutes ; season with salt ;• dish on a warm plate, and 
serve immediately. 

MUTTON OR LAMB CHOP. 

Mutton or lamb chops are cooked and served the 
same way as beefsteak, only first trimming off all the 
fat. 

If the patient cannot eat rare meat, have the steak 
and chops cut rather thin. 

CREAM TOAST. 

Let half a cup of cream come to a boil, and season 
with salt. Have two slices of bread toasted a nice 
brown ; dip them in the cream, and dish ; pour the 
remaining cream over them. Serve immediately. 

RICE COFFEE. 

Brown rice as you would the coffee bean, and then 
either grind or mash in the mortar ; take half a cup 



122 HO USE HOLD MANA GEMENT AND COOKER Y. 

of the ground rice, and pour about a quart of boiling 
water over it and let it stand about ten or fifteen min^ 
utes ; then strain and sweeten with loaf sugar and 
season with boiled milk. Drink of this freely. This 
is particularly nice for children. 

FLOUR GRUEL. 

Let one quart of fresh milk come to a boil, and 
then stir in one table-spoonful of flour which has been 
mixed with milk enough to make a smooth paste ; 
boil this mixture thirty minutes, being careful not to 
let it burn. Season with salt and strain. The patient 
should be kept warm and quiet. 

CUSTARD. 

Whites of three eggs, one quarter teaspoonful of 
salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a light grating of 
nutmeg, one pint of rich new milk. 

Beat sugar, whites of eggs, salt, and nutmeg to- 
gether ; then add a little milk ; beat a few minutes 
longer ; add the remainder of the milk ; turn into cus- 
tard cups, and bake in a slow oven in a pan of warm 
water until they are firm in the centre. 

EGGNOG. 

One ^gg^ one table-spoonful of sugar, one of water, 
one of milk, one of wine. 

Beat the white of the ^gg to a stiff froth ; then beat 
in the sugar ; next the yolk j then milk and wine. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 1 23 

A GOOD DRINK FOR THE LUNGS. 

Wash clean a few pieces of Irish moss ; put it in a 
pitcher, and pour over it two cups of boiling water. 
Set where it will keep at the boiling point, but not 
boil, for two hours. Strain, and squeeze into it the 
juice of one lemon. Sweeten to taste. If the patient 
cannot take lemon, flavor with wine, vanilla, or nut- 
meg. 

ANOTHER DRINK. 

Beat lightly one ^^^ and one table-spoonful of sugar. 
Stir into this one cup of new milk, half a wineglass of 
wine, and a little nutmeg. This is nice without the 
wine. 

ANOTHER DRINK. 

Upon one teaspoonful of slippery-elm pour one cup 
of boiling water, strain, and season as Irish moss. 



LEMONADE, 



The juice of one lemon and one table-spoonful of 
sugar. Pour on this one cup of boiling water, and 
set away to cool. 

CURE FOR HOARSENESS. 

Bake a lemon or sour orange for twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven, then open it at one end and dig 
out the inside, which sweeten with sugar or molasses, 
and eat. This will cure hoarseness and remove press- 
ure from the lungs. 



124 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

BURNS. 

Rub a little oil or butter on the burned part, and 
cover with soda. This is for slight burns, which 
many are always getting in the kitchen. If the air is 
kept from burns and cuts they will heal rapidly ; for 
this reason burns are often covered with glue. 

UNFAILING CURE FOR CONSTIPATION. 

Three teacupfuls of coarse, clean wheat-bran, three 
of sifted flour, one heaping teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one half of soda, one of salt, seven of sweet 
butter. Mix with cold milk and roll into thin biscuit, 
and bake thoroughly in a moderately hot oven. They 
should be from one fourth to one third of an inch 
thick, and be cut with a small biscuit cutter. 

Great care must be taken that they do not burn, 
and at the same tim.e that they get thoroughly baked. 
They will keep a long time if kept in a tight tin box ; 
they should be eaten at each meal. — From Mr. Leo- 
nard Scott, after twenty years' experience. 

CURE NO. 2. 

A little while before retiring, mix a table-spoonful 
of flaxseed in cold water enough to make it pour 
readily, and on going to bed drink this. It is not 
nauseating at all, and will act on the bowels without 
deranging them as drugs always do. 

Drinking a glass of cold water at night and in the 
morning helps many persons. Eating fruit is also 
good. 



MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES. 
REMARKS ON DIGESTION. 

In the stomach is produced a liquid secretion called 
the gastric juice. This does uot act upon starch or 
fat of any kind. The only thing it dissolves is the 
albuminous matter. Now, when this albuminous 
matter is not saturated with fat, the gastric juice acts 
upon it readily ; but as in the case of pastry, dough- 
nuts, fried meats, etc., where the whole mass is satu- 
rated with a fatty substance, it takes a long time before 
the gastric juice can get at the albuminous matter to 
act upon it : hence the distress by the overworking 
of the stomach ; and if this kind of food is partaken 
of frequently the stomach force will be weakened 
and refuse to do its work. This will disarrange every 
other member of the digestive organs, and, in a short 
time, you have a first-class dyspeptic. All food, 
therefore, should be as light, porous, and free from 
fat as possible. 

When fat is used, it should be in such a manner 
that it will separate readily from the other substances 
on entering the stomach. Alcohol retards digestion, 
and renders it incomplete, by coagulating the gastric 
juice. Food, when taken into the stomach either very 
hot or very cold, does not digest readily. Food taken 
when the body or mind is very tired does not digest 



126 HO USE HOLD MAN A GEMENT AND COOKER Y. 

readily. Digestion goes on very slowly during sleep, 
but it is more complete, and repairs the waste of the 
body more thoroughly than the rapid digestion of the 
waking hours. Children digest food more rapidly than 
adults, and should, therefore, be given a light lunch 
when more than four hours intervene between the 
regular meals. 

It is a great mistake to think that light breakfasts 
are better than substantial ones. The breakfast sup- 
plies the fuel for the great waste which goes on dur- 
ing the busiest part of the day, and therefore should 
be of a simple, nutritious character, and an abundant 
supply of it. Another mistake made by many per- 
sons is the taking of a number of hours of exercise 
before breakfast. 

The stomach, while empty, is in a condition 'to re- 
ceive disease. In a high, dry atmosphere, there is 
less danger from this habit ; but in a country which 
is at all malarious it is one of the most dangerous 
things which can be done. 

Regulaj^ity as to the time of eating is also one of 
the necessary things to be observed, that the diges- 
tion may be perfect. Pastry should be used very 
sparingly, puddings, fruits, and light desserts taking 
the place of pies. 

The preparation of food should be made moie a 
matter of conscience, with the housekeeper and cook, 
than it is at present. In planning the preparation of 
a dish the questions should not be. Is it convenient t 
and Will it please ? but, Will it be healthful, mentally, 
morally, and physically .'* for the food we eat affects 
the three natures. 



MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES. 1 27 

Then food, to do its highest and best work, must 
be of the best quah'ty, prepared carefully (but always 
to retain its simplest form), partaken of regularly in 
a cheerful room and in cheerful company. 

REMARKS. 

Always measure flour after it has been sifted, un- 
less told to measure before. Always sift Indian and 
rye meal, and never sift Graham or oatmeal. Always 
set milk into boiling water to boil, as it boils quicker 
in this way, and there will be no danger of burning. 
Save all the fat from soups, boiled and roast meats. 
The fat from beef, pork, and f)Oultry keep for shorten- 
ing or frying ; and from ham, mutton, and . soups, in 
which vegetables were boiled, for the soap grease. 
To clarify drippings, boil them a few minutes, and 
then cut in a raw potato and let it cook for five min- 
utes, then drop in a pinch of saleratus, and strain. 
If all the drippings are taken care of it will be a great 
saving in a family. In many of the rules given here 
it has been very difficult to say just how much spice 
to use, as there is such a difference in tastes, so that 
each one must use her own judgment ; but be careful 
that no one spice predominates. Always use twice as 
much cinnamon and nutmeg as you do clove. In 
making frosting, pudding sauce, and all kinds of deli- 
cate cake, use the powdered sugar, if possible. For 
rich cake, the coffee-crushed, powdered, and sifted, is 
the best. For dark cake, the brown sugar will be 
found the nicest. It makes it richer. Save all the 
pieces of bread for dressing, puddings, and griddle- 
cakes. Tin is not very good to mix cake in, and 



128 HOUSEHOLD MAJSTAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

earthen dishes are always being broken. The stone 
china wash bowls are very good for this purpose. 
You can often find odd ones at the crockery stores, 
and they will last a lifetime for this purpose. In 
baking and frying cook everything brown. Bread 
and pastry are more healthful overdone than under- 
done. 

One even quart of sifted flour is one pound ; one 
pint of granulated sugar is one pound ; two good-sized 
cups of butter are one pound. Do not buy large 
quantities of Indian and rye meal at a time, as they 
sour quickly. Keep all kinds of meal, flour, and 
meats in a cool, dry place. Keep tea, coffee, and ex- 
tracts from the air. Never set anything into the ice- 
chest while warm, as it will heat the chest and absorb 
an unpleasant flavor from the chest. This is true of 
the cellar also. Keep a note-book for tried receipts, 
and for any changes which you wish to make in the 
receipts which you are constantly using. By thought 
and observation one can learn something new in re- 
gard to cooking every day, and at the time it will 
seem so important that you cannot forget it ; but you 
will if you do not have it written. 

ARTICLES FOR COOKING ROOM. 

Large stove or range, — a stove is better than a 
range ; two large tables, one dish pan, two rather 
small bread pans, four yellow bowls, from six quarts 
down ; four white smooth-bottom bowls, two muffin 
pans, each containing twelve cups ; four tin baking 
pans, two Russia iron baking pans, four large cooking 
spoons, six teaspoons, two table-spoons, one carving- 



MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES. 1 29 

knife, one butcher's knife, one large carving-fork, two 
vegetable knives, two case knives, one second size 
Dover beater, one common wire beater, one bread 
board, one rolling-pin, six cups, holding half a pint 
each ; two quart measures, one biscuit cutter, four 
deep tin plates, three wire toasters, one for fish, one 
for meat, and one for bread ; one bean-pot, one pud- 
ding-dish, three frypans, Nos. i, 3, and 6 ; three porce- 
lain-lined stewpans, from two quarts to four ; two 
twja-quart tin basins, a hand-basin, three tin saucepans, 
one one pint, one three pints, one three quarts ; meat 
rack, four bread-pans, one double kettle, one wire 
dishcloth, one linen dishcloth, four long towels for 
lifting pans, twelve dish towels, four rollers, one col- 
ander, one vegetable masher, one sieve, one strainer, 
one coffee-pot, one filter, one tea-pot, one chocolate 
pot, one deep Scotch kettle for frying, meat and 
bread boards, pail, broom, brush, dust-pan, duster, 
floor-cloth, sink-cloth, soap-dish, blacking brush, brown 
bread tin, steamer, dishes enough to set a table in the 
simplest manner, chopping-tray and knife. 

If more than the simplest things are taught, of 
course a greater variety of utensils will be required. 




ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 



SOUPS AND STEWS. 

Small, tough pieces of meat can be served in no 
more nutritious and satisfactory forms than as soups 
and stews. These dishes, if carefully prepared, are 
savory, economical, and healthful. One thing must 
always be heeded in order to insure success : cook 
the dishes slowly. In this one word lies the secret 
of much of the success it is possible to secure. On- 
ions, when cooked a long time, or fried in fat before 
being put into a soup or stew, acquire an unequaled 
rich and mellow flavoring quality. But the cooking 
should be so thorough that their presence in the dish 
cannot be detected. Pork is frequently named in 
this book for use in soups, stews, and fricassees, but if 
any other kind of fat be preferred or be more conven- 
ient, it can be substituted. 

PEA SOUP. 

One quart of dried peas, seven quarts of water, 
two large onions, one pound of lean salt pork, one 
stalk of celery, three whole cloves, salt, pepper. Pick 
over the peas, and wash thoroughly ; then put them 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 13T 

in three quarts of cold water, and let them soak all 
night. In the morning pour off all the water, and put 
the peas in the soup-kettle with seven quarts of cold 
water, the pork, and other ingredients. Boil gently 
seven hours. Take out the pork, and rub the soup 
through a sieve". Serve with toasted bread and the 
boiled pork. If pork be not liked, a small piece of 
the neck of beef may be used, — about two pounds. 
The soup must be stirred frequently to prevent burn- 
ing. 

BEAN SOUP. 

One pint of dried beans, four quarts of water, one 
onion, half a pound of salt pork, salt, pepper. Wash 
the beans, and soak all night in three quarts of cold 
water. In the morning pour off all the water and wash 
the beans in two waters. This prevents the rank 
flavor in the soup. Now put the pork and beans on 
to boil in four quarts of cold water. Boil gently six 
hours. Season with salt and pepper, and rub through 
a strainer. Return to the fire, and boil up once. Put 
one table-spoonful of butter or drippings in a sauce- 
pan, and when hot add one table-spoonful of flour. 
Cook this until it is a light brown j then stir into the 
soup, and boil five minutes longer. Serve with toasted 
bread and the pork. 

ONION SOUP. 

Six large onions, one quart of milk, one quart of 
water, six table-spoonfuls of cracker crumbs, four ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of flour, a quarter of a pound of fat 
salt pork, salt, pepper. Cut the pork into thin slices, 
and fry slowly in the soup-kettle. When it is thor- 



132 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY 

ouglily fried, add the onions, which have been cut 
into thiti slices, arid fry slowly until these are a golden 
brown. They should cook about half an hour before 
they take this color. When they become brown, stir 
the dry flour in with them, and cook ten minutes longer, 
being careful not to let the onions turn dark brown. 
Now add one quart of boiling water, and simmer 
gently two hours (one hour will do, if more time can- 
not be given). Add the salt, pepper, and milk, and 
let the soup boil up once. Strain, and add the 
cracker crumbs. Boil three minutes, and serve. 

SHIN OF BEEF SOUP. 

Six pounds of the shin of beef, three onions, one 
turnip, one carrot, half a cupful of rice, six potatoes, 
a few leaves of celery, one quart of finely-shred cab- 
bage, salt, pepper, seven quarts of cold water. Hav- 
ing had the shin-bone cracked, wash it, and place it 
in the §pup-kettle over a slow fire for about twenty 
minutes. Stir often. Now add the onions, sliced 
thin, and cook ten minutes longer, stirring frequently. 
Add the cold water, and when it comes to the boiling 
point, skim. Simmer two hours, and then add the 
carrot, turnip, and cabbage, all cut fine. Simmer two 
hours longer, and add the rice, potatoes, salt, and pep- 
per. Cook one hour longer, and serve. Barley may 
be used instead of rice, but in that case it should be 
added with the cold water, as it requires a great deal 
of cooking. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Two quarts of finely-shred cabbage, three large on- 
ions, one large turnijD, one carrot, two stalks of celery 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 33 

four quarts of water, four table-spoonfuls of drippings, 
four table-spoonfuls of flour, salt, pepper, eight large 
potatoes. Have the vegetables pared, washed, and 
cut fine. Let them stand in cold water. Put the 
drippings in the soup-pot, and when hot add the on- 
ions. Cook slowly ten minutes ; then add the dry- 
flour. Stir well, and cook ten minutes longer. Now 
add the cold water and all the vegetables except the 
potatoes. Simmer two hours. Add the potatoes and 
salt and pepper, and cook an hour longer. Five min- 
utes before serving put six slices of stale bread in the 
soup. Any common kind of vegetable that is in the 
market can be used for this soup. The more kinds, the 
better the flavor. 

CLAM SOUP. 

One quart of clams, one of milk, one pint of water, 
three table-spoonfuls of butter, three of flour, four of 
cracker crumbs, salt, pepper. Separate the black 
heads from the clams, and put them on to simmer for 
half an hour in the pint of water. Chop the soft part 
of the clams, and put aside. Rub the butter and flour 
together, and stir into the boiling clams ; then add the 
milk, salt, and pepper. Let this mixture boil up, and 
then strain upon the chopped part 6f the clams. Re- 
turn to the fire, and boil three minutes. Add the 
cracker crumbs, and serve. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

One quart of clams, one quart of pared and thinly- 
sliced potatoes, two onions, a quarter of a pound of 
salt pork, six soft crackers, one quart of water, one 
quart of milk, three table-spoonfuls of flour, salt, pep- 



1 3 4 HOUSEHOLD MANA CEMENT AND COOKER Y. 

per. Separate the black heads from the soft part of 
the clams, and simmer them in the water for half an 
hour. Fry the pork slowly, and when brown and dry, 
add the onions, cut fine. Fry slowly until the onions 
are a pale straw color ; then add the dry flour, and 
cook two minutes, stirring all the while. Stir into the 
water in which the heads are boiling. Put in the 
soup-kettle a layer of potatoes, then one of the soft 
clams, and dredge well with salt and pepper ; add a 
layer of crackers, and begin again with the potatoes 
and clams, and when all the ingredients have been 
used, strain over them the water in which the heads 
simmered. Cover closely, and simmer gently twenty 
minutes ; then add the milk, and boil up once. If 
you would like the pork and onions in the chowder, 
strain the water in which the heads were cooked upon 
the onion, pork, and flour, instead of proceeding as first 
directed. When the clams are bought in the shell, a 
I^eck will be required. Wash them free from sand, 
cover them with boiling water, and let them stand un- 
til the shells open a little ; now take the clams from the 
shells, and proceed as directed, save that the water 
which was poured over them must be used. All water 
may be used instead of part milk, if it be preferred. 

SALT FISH CHOWDER. 

One pint of dried salt fish, free from skin and bone, 
half a pound of salt pork, two onions, one quart of 
pared and thinly-sliced potatoes, six soft crackers, 
three pints of water, one pint of milk, two table-spoon- 
fuls of flour. Wash the fish, cover with cold water, and 
soak over night. Cut the pork into dice, and fry crisp 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 35 

and brown ; then add the onions, which have been 
cut fine. Fry slowly till a golden brown. Put in the 
soup-pot a layer of fish, which has been broken into 
flakes, and a layer of potatoes. Dredge with salt, 
pejDper, and flour, and spread part of the onion and 
pork over these layers. Now add a layer of split 
crackers. Continue in this way until all the ingredi- 
ents are used ; then add the three pints of cold water. 
Let the chowder come slowly to the boiling point, and 
keep it there, although not allowing it to boil, for 
one hour ; then add the milk, and cook half an hour 
longer, keeping the kettle where it will not boil. All 
water may be used instead of part milk. 

POTATO CHOWDER. 

Two quarts of pared and sliced potatoes, five large 
onions, half a pound of salt pork, two quarts of water, 
two table-spoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste. 
Cut the pork into thin strips, and fry slowly until a 
light brown ; then add the onions, which have been 
pared and sliced very thin. Cook slowly until a light 
brown. Put a layer of the sliced potatoes in the soup- 
kettle, then a thin layer of the pork and onion, and 
dredge well with salt, pepper, and flour. Add another 
layer of potato, and continue as before. When all 
the ingredients are used add the water. Let tlTe 
chowder come slowly to the boiling point, and sim- 
mer forty minutes. 

CHICKEN CHOWDER. 

One fowl, weighing about four pounds, one eighth 
of a pound of salt pork, two large onions, one quart 



136 HO USE HOLD MANA CEMENT AND COOKER V. 

of pared and sliced potatoes, eight soft crackers, two 
small slices of carrot, three table-spoonfuls of fiour, 
salt and pepper to taste, three quarts of hot water. 
Singe and wash the fowl, and cut it into small pieces. 
Cut the pork into tljin slices, and Jry slowly until a 
dark brown ; then add the carrot and onions, which 
have been cut into ^/im slices. Cook slowly for fifteen 
minutes. Put the fowl, onion, carrot, and pork, with 
one quart of hot water, in the soup-kettle, and simmer 
slowly two hours. Add the salt, pepper, potatoes, the 
remaining water, and the flour (mixed with a little 
cold water), and cook slowly forty minutes. Split the 
crackers, and clip into cold water or milk ; then lay 
them on top of the chowder, and cook ten minutes 
longer. If the fowl be very tough and old, it will 
take four hours' cooking before the remainder of the 
water and the other ingredients are added. Dump- 
lings instead of crackers can be cooked with this 
chowder. 

TOMATO CHOWDER. 

Two quarts of fresh tomatoes, pared and sliced, or 
one quart of canned tomatoes, two onions, one quart 
of boiling water, quarter of a pound of salt pork, one 
fourth of a cupful of rice, one table-spoonful of flour. 
Slice the pork, and fry till a light brown ; then add 
the onion, and when this is of a light straw color add 
the dry flour. Cook and stir for three minutes. Add 
the water, rice, and tomatoes, and simmer one hour. 
Season with salt and pepper. 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 37 

PARSNIP STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Half a pound of salt pork, ten good-sized potatoes, 
three large parsnips, three quarts of water, one table- 
spoonful of flour, mixed with half a cupful of cold wa- 
ter, salt and pepper to taste. Cut the pork into thin 
strips ; scrape and slice the parsnips. Boil the pork 
and parsnips gently in the water for one hour ; then 
add the thickening, salt, pepper, and the potatoes, 
which have been pared and sliced. Boil half an hour, 
when add the dumplings, cooking ten minutes. 

BARLEY STEW. 

About half a pound of cooked or uncooked meat, 
three large onions, one quart of pared and sliced po- 
tatoes, one thu'd of a cupful of barley, salt and pepper 
to taste, two quarts of water, rather scant, and two ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of flour. Cut the meat into little bits ; 
slice the onions very fine ; wash the barley. Put these 
and the water in a large saucepan, and let them come 
slowly to the boiling point. Skim the stew as soon as 
it begins to boil, and set back where it will just bub- 
ble for three hours ; then add the flour, which has 
been mixed with a little cold water, the potatoes and 
salt and pepper. Simmer one hour longer. The 
cheapest part of beef, mutton, or veal can be used 
for this dish, or, what is quite as well, bits of cold 
roasted or broiled meat. If one has plenty of meat, 
it will of course give a richer and more nutritious 
stew to use a quantity larger than that named, although 
half a pound will produce a palatable and nutritious 
dish. Pieces of stale bread, added the last ten min 
utes of cooking, are a desirable addition. 



138 HO USE HOLD MANA GEMENT AND COOLER V. 
• IRISH STEW. 

Three pounds of the cheap parts of mutton, two on- 
ions, one small white turnip, one small carrot, one 
quart of pared and sliced potatoes, two table-spoon- 
fuls of flour, two quarts of hot water, salt and pepper 
to taste. Cut the mutton into small pieces, and pare 
and cut into thin slices the onions, turnip, and carrot. 
Put these in the soup-kettle, and dredge in the flour, 
salt, and pepper. Add the water, and let all come to 
the boiling point. Skim the stew, and set back where 
it will bubble for two hours ; then add the potatoes, 
and cook forty-five minutes longer. 

MUTTON STEW. 

Four pounds of the cheap part of mutton, one on- 
ion, one quart of boiling water, three table-spoonfuls 
of flour, salt and pepper to taste, two slices of carrot, 
two of turnip. Cut the mutton into small pieces. 
Put three table-spoonfuls of the fat of the meat, cut 
into little bits, in the soup-kettle, and fry slowly; then 
add the vegetables, cut fine, and cook ten minutes 
longer. Add the meat, and cook ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add the boiling water, and after letting 
the stew come to the boiling point, skim it ; then add 
the flour, which has been mixed with cold water. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and simmer slowly for three 
hours. Rice or potatoes should be served with this 
dish. 

CORNED BEEF STEW. 

Two pounds of cold corned beef, one quart of cold 
boiled potatoes, sliced, two onions, two table-spoon 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 39 

fuls of flour, one quart of cold water. Cut the beef 
into thin slices, and trim off some of the fat. Put the 
fat in a large saucepan, and when it has been frying 
about twelve minutes add the onions, cut into thin 
slices. Fry slowly for ten minutes, and after stirring 
in the flour fry two minutes more, stirring all the 
while. Add the water gradually, and cook three min- 
utes. Season well with salt and pepper. Put in a 
layer of potatoes, then one of meat, and dredge with 
salt and pepper. Continue in this way until all the 
potatoes and meat are used. Cover the saucepan, 
and simmer very gently for half an hour. Serve on a 
platter, being careful not to break the meat or pota- 
toes. 

SAUSAGE STEW. 

One pound of pork sausage, in either the cake or 
in cases, two quarts of pared and sliced potatoes, one 
large onion, salt, pepper, one table-spoonful of flour, 
one quart of water. Shred the onion very fine. Put 
a layer of the potato in the stew-pan, then a light 
layer of the onion and the sausage, which should be 
cut into thin slices; and if the meat be in cases, the 
skm should be removed. Dredge with salt, joepper, 
and flour. Continue in this way until all the mate- 
rials are used, and add the boiling water. Cover the 
stew-pan, and simmer three quarters of an hour. 

VEAL STEW. 

Four pounds of veal, from any of the cheap parts, 
one onion, one quart of boiling water, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste, quarter of 
a pound of salt pork. Cut the pork into slices, and 



140 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

fry slowly in the stew-pan. When it is a light brown 
add the onion, which has been cut into thin slices, 
and cook ten minutes. Cut the veal into small pieces, 
and dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Put these in.- 
gredients in the stew-pan and stir over the fire for six 
minutes ; then add the water. Mix the remainder of 
the flour with a little cold water, and stir into the 
gravy. Set the stew-pan where the contents will just 
bubble for three hours. Taste to see if seasoned 
enough. One teasjDOonful of curry powder is a great 
improvement. It should be added just before the 
stew is taken from the fire. Always serve boiled rice 
with this dish when the curry is used. 

FISH STEW. 

Four pounds of any kind of cheap fish, one onion, 
quarter of a pound of salt pork, one quart of water, 
two table-spoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste. 
Remove the head, tail, and skin of the fish. Slip a 
sharp knife between the flesh and the bones. Put the 
head, tail, and bones in a stew-pan with one quart of 
cold water, letting them come to the boiling point, and 
simmer for twenty, minutes. Cut the pork and onion 
into thin slices. Fry the pork slowly until a light 
brown ; then add the onion, and cook until a light 
straw color. Add the dry flour, and cook three min- 
utes, stirring all the while, and strain upon it the water 
in which the bones and head w^ere boiled. Boil five 
minutes, and season with salt and pepper. Have the 
iish cut into handsome pieces, which lay in the sauce- 
pan with the gravy. Cover, and simmer very slowly 
thirty minutes. 



ADDnVONAL RECEIPTS. 141 

VEGETABLE STEW. 

One head of cabbage, weighing about four pounds, 
one quart of pared and sliced turnips, one quart of 
potato, pared and sliced, half a pint of carrot, one 
quart of parsnips, half a pound of salt pork, salt, and 
pepper, two quarts of water. Cut the pork into slices. 
Put the cabbage in the bottom of the stew-pan, next 
the pork, then the turnip, carrot, and parsnip. Dredge 
each layer with salt, pepper, and flour. Add the 
water, boiling. Cover the stew-pan, and simmer two 
hours ; then add the potatoes, and simmer half an 
hour longer. 

STEWED BEEF. 

Four pounds of meat from the lower part of the 
round, or any of the other cheap parts, four whole 
cloves, three fourths of a quart of boiling water, three 
table-spoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste. Put 
the beef in the stew-pan, and, covering it, let it cook 
slowly on top of the stove for half an hour, turning it 
occasionall}^ Add the water. Mix the flour with a 
little cold water, and stir into the gravy. Season with 
salt and pepper. Cover closely, and place where it 
will simmer gently for three hours. 

BRAISED BEEFSTEAK. 

Two pounds of the tough part of the round, one 
onion, a clove, one pint of boiling water, one tea- 
spoonful of corn-starch. Dredge the meat well with 
salt, pepper, and flour. Cut the onion into thin slices, 
which put in a small saucepan or baking-pan ; and 
upon them lay the meat, covering closely. Place in a 



142 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY 

rather cool oven and cook half an hour ; then add the 
boiling water and the clove. Cover, and return to the 
oven. Cook very slowly for two hours and a half, 
basting with the gravy in the pan, and dredging with 
salt, pepper, and flour six times while cooking. Take 
up the meat. Mix the corn-starch with a little cold 
water, and stir into the gravy. Cook, on top of the 
stove, four minutes. Strain over the meat, and serve. 
Any kind of meat, from any part of the animal, can 
be prepared in this manner. The time given will an- 
swer for a piece weighing four pounds, if it be flat. 
A piece weighing six or eight pounds, if thick, will re- 
quire five hours' cooking. The meat must in no case 
be cooked rapidly. All kinds of vegetables may be 
used in this dish. The onion, if not liked, may be 
omitted. When the meat is very dry, a few slices of 
salt pork can be put in the bottom of the pan. 

VEAL POT PIE. 

Five pounds of veal, half a pound of salt pork, two 
quarts of boiling water, four table-spoonfuls of flour, 
and salt and pepper. Cut the meat into small pieces, 
and dredge thickly with salt, pepper, and flour. Cut 
the pork into slices, and fry in the stew-pan until a 
light brown ; then put in the veal, and stir around in 
the stew-pan until browned. Add the boiling water. 
Let it come to the boiling point, and set back where 
it can simmer slowly for two hours and a half. Mix 
the remainder of the flour with cold water, and stir 
into the gravy. Taste to see if seasoned enough. 
Make the dumpling mixture according to the rule on 
page 75, and, rolling down to the thickness of about 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. I43 

one third of an inch, cut into squares. Stir the mixt- 
ure which is in the stew-pan, and draw forward wliere 
it will boil. Lay the squares in the kettle, and, cover- 
ing closely, boil twelve minutes. Take the cakes up 
first ] then pour the meat and gravy on a platter, and 
arrange the cakes on top. 

FRICASSEE OF VEAL, WITH BISCUIT. 

Two pounds of veal, quarter of a- pound of salt pork, 
one pint and a half of cold water, three table-spoonfuls 
of flour, salt and pepper to taste. Cut the pork into 
thin slices, and fry to a deep brown, in a frying-pan. 
Cut the veal into thin slices, and dredge with salt and 
pepper. Fry in the pork fat until brown. Be careful 
not to burn the fat. As soon as the veal is brown 
take it up, and put the dry flour with the hot fat. Stir 
until brown ; then add the water, slowly, stirring all 
the while. When the gravy boils up let it cook five 
minutes. Add the fried veal, and cover. Cook slowly 
for twelve or fifteen minutes. Have biscuit made ac- 
cording to half the rule given subsequently in the ap- 
pendix, and bake them in thin, small cakes. Lay the 
veal on a platter and pour the gravy over it. Place 
the biscuits on and around the fricassee, and serve. 

FRICASSEE OF COLD MEAT, WITH BAKED DUMPLINGS. 

Three pints of any kind of cold meat cut into small 
pieces, one pint of water, one large table-spoonful of 
flour, two table-spoonfuls of butter, and salt 'and pep- 
per. Put the butter in a small sauce-pan or frying- 
pan, and when hot add the dry flour, and stir until 
brown. Gradually add the water. Season well with 



1 44 HO USE HOLD MANA CEMENT AND COOKER Y. 

salt and pepper* Put the meat in a deep earthen 
dish, and season with salt and pepper. Pour the 
gravy over it, and place in the oven. Make biscuit 
according to half the rule, and cut them into small, 
thin cakes. Take the dish of meat from the oven and 
lay the cakes on top of it. Return to the oven and 
bake fifteen minutes. Serve in the same dish. 

ROLLED FLANK OF BEEF. 

Five pounds of the fresh flank of beef, salt, pepper, 
one cupful of cracker.crumbs, one teaspoonful of sum- 
mer savory, one table-spoonful of butter. Wipe the 
beef with a damp cloth, and dredge well with salt and 
pepper. Spread on a board, and if one part be 
thicker than another cut some of the meat from the 
thick portion and lay on the thin. Make a dressing 
with the cracker, summer savory, butter, salt, pepper, 
and cold water enough to make the cracker quite 
moist. After spreading the meat with this, roll it up 
and tie it, and pin in a cloth. Place in a stew-pan, 
and just cover with boiling water. Let this come to 
the boiling point, and then set back where it will just 
bubble for five hours. Let the meat partially co.ol in 
the water in which it was boiled. When it is nearly 
cold, take it up, and remove the cloth, but not the 
strings. When cold, the piece will cut into tender 
round slices. The water in which it was boiled will 
do for the foundation of a vegetable, rice, or tomato 
soup, or, if thickened with flour, will make a nice 
gravy. 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 145 

beef's heart. 
One heart, one cupful of stale bread, one onion, one 
slice of carrot, one of turnip, one table-spoonful of 
butter, two slices of pork, one pint and a half of 
water, one large table-spoonful of flour, one eighth of 
a teaspoonful of summer savory, salt, pepper. Wash 
the heart. Soak the bread in one third of a cupful of 
cold water, and then mix with it the summer savory, 
butter, one fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, and a little 
pepper. After stuffing the heart, with this, tie a strong 
piece of cotton cloth over the larger end of it. Put 
one slice of the pork and all the vegetables in a deep 
sauce-pan. Place the heart on. top of them, and the 
remaining slice of pork on the heart, add the water, 
and dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Bake slowly 
for two hours, basting frequently. Add the flour, 
mixed with a little cold water, in the course of the 
last half hour. Take off the cloth, place the heart on 
a platter, and strain the gravy over it. 

sheep's hearts. 

Split the hearts, and wash and wipe them. Dredge 
with salt and pepper, and broil, over a clear fire, ten 
minutes. Season with butter, and serve. They may 
be prepared and roasted the same as the beef's heart ; 
or they can be cut into small slices, and covered with 
hot water and simmered two hours. For six hearts 
take one quart of water, three cloves, two table spoon- 
fuls of butter and two of flour. Simmer the hearts in 
the water with the cloves for one hour and a half. 
Rub the butter and flour together, and stir into the 
10 



146 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

gravy. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer half 
an hour longer. 

KIDNEYS. 

Cook all kinds of kidneys the same as sheep's 
hearts. Hearts and kidneys must be cooked either a 
great deal or a very little, — that is, either rare, or un- 
til very well done ; or, in other words, not long enough 
to harden the albumen and fibrine, or a considerable 
time after the hardening has taken place. 

BAKED LIVER. 

Three pounds of beef liver or any other kind, quar- 
ter of a pound of salt pork, one onion, half a cupful of 
chopped carrot, the same quantity of chopped turnip, 
one pint and a half of water, two table-spoonfuls of 
flour, salt and pepper to taste. Cut the pork into 
thin slices, and spread part on the bottom of a deep 
baking-pan. Spread the vegetables on the pork, and 
dredge with salt and pepper. Now put in the liver, 
and lay the remainder of the pork over it. Add the 
water, and place in a moderate oven. Baste every 
fifteen minutes with the water in the pan, and salt, 
pepper, and flour. When the dish has been cooking 
one hour and a half, add the flour, mixed with a little 
cold water, and one table-spoonful of vinegar. Cook 
half an hour longer. Place .the liver in a dish, and 
pour the gravy over it. Serve hot. 

FRIED LIVER. 

Cut the liver into slices about half an inch thick. 
Cover these with boiling water, and let them stand 
ten minutes. For every half pound of liver put two 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 47 

table-spoonfuls of drippings in the frying-pan, and 
when hot put in the meat. Cook slowly for eight min- 
utes, seasoning with salt and pepper, and then remove 
from the pan. Put enough drippings in the pan to 
make two table-spoonfuls ; when hot add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and stir until brown : then add one 
pint of cold water, and stir imtil it boils. Season with 
salt and pepper, and, after simmering five minutes, add 
one teaspoonful of vinegar. Pour the gravy over 
the liver, and serve. Cooking liver rapidly makes it 
hard. Lemon juice may be used instead of the vine- 
gar. A table-spoonful of capers improves the sauce. 

BOILED FISH. 

Have boiling water enough to cover the fish. Salt 
it, and add one table-spoonful of vinegar to every two 
quarts of water. Dip a cloth in cold water, and lay 
the fish in it. Fold the cloth, and pin it together. 
Place in the boiling water, and just simmer until the 
fish is done ; then lift out the cloth, and roll the fish- 
out of it and on to the dish on which it is to be served. 
A cod weighing four or six pounds will cook in thirty 
minutes ; four or six pounds of halibut will need forty- 
five minutes \ mackerel will require twenty minutes. 
A portion of a large fish, if of a cubical shape, will re- 
quire half as long again for cooking as will the same 
quantity if of greater length and less thickness, or as 
will a small fish weighing the same number of pounds. 
Serve butter, tomato, ^^g., or milk sauce with boiled 
fish. 



148 ^HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 
FRIED FISH. 

The best way to fry fish is to have fat enough in the 
kettle to float the fish. This is not always convenient 
therefore, the next best mode will be explained. Pork 
fat gives a particularly nice flavor to fish ; so, when it 
is liked, and is not beyond- your means, it is much the 
best thing to use for frying. Beef and other drip- 
pings, cotton-seed oil, and lard are also good. Have 
the fish cut in small, flat pieces, and after season- 
ing these with salt and pepper dip them in a mixt- 
ure of Indian meal and flour, or in bread or cracker 
crumbs. Have the bottom of the frying-pan covered 
to the depth of about a fourth of an inch with fat. 
When this is hot put in the fish, and fry until brown 
on one side ; then turn, and brown on the other. If 
the fish be cut an inch thick it will take twelve min- 
utes to fry it. Mackerel, trout, and other small fish 
should only be split, not cut. 

BROILED FISH. 

Fish for broiling should be small, or, if large, like 
halibut and salmon, should be cut about an inch thick. 
Season with salt and pepper. After rubbing the 
double broiler with a bit of pork or butter, lay the fish 
in it, and fasten the two parts together. Broil over 
or before clear coals until brown on the inside ; then 
turn, and broil more slowly on the skin side. A thick 
mackerel will take twelve minutes ; a slice of halibut 
or salmon, cut about an inch thick, will require from 
twelve to fifteen minutes ; a split cod will broil in 
about the same time. As soon as the fish is done, 



ADDiriO.YAL KECEirTS. 1 49 

turn back the side of the broiler that comes next the 
skin, and, placing over the fish a dish that has been 
warming, turn over broiler and dish simultaneously. 
The fish will thus be made to rest on the dish, skin 
side down and perfectly whole. Season with salt, 
pepper, and butter. 

SALT FISH IN CREAM. 

One pint of salt fish, one pint of milk, one table- 
sjDOonful of butter, one of flour, salt and pepper to 
taste. Cover the fish with cold water, and let it soak 
over night. In the morning pour off the water and 
add the milk to the fish. Let this heat slowly. Keep 
at the boiling point, without allowing it to actually 
boil, for half an hour. Rub the butter and flour to- 
gether, and stir in with th.e fish and milk in the 
sauce-pan. Cook ten minutes. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

SALT FISH WITH PORK. 

Cut two large slices of pork into dice, and fry 
slowly until brown. Break a pint of cooked salt fish 
into flakes, and add to the pork. Stir over the fire 
until very hot. If you like the flavor, a table-spoon- 
ful of chopped onion may be fried with the pork be- 
fore the fish is added. 

. MACARONI PIE. 

Quarter of a pound of macaroni, one pound of pork 
sausage, salt, pepper, one cupful of bread crumbs. 
Break the macaroni into small pieces, and put in a 
sauce-pan with two quarts of boiling water. Boil 
twenty minutes. Put a layer of the cooked macaroni 



150 HO USE HOLD MA NA CEMENT A ND CO OKER Y. 

in a deep dish, and after dredgin^^ with salt and pep- 
per add some of the water in which it was cooked ; 
then add a layer of sausage, which has been cut into 
thin slices. Continue in this way until the macaroni 
and sausage are used ; then cover with the bread 
crumbs. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. One 
pint of the water in which the macaroni was boiled 
should be used in preparing the dish, if you like it 
very moist ; less will answer. Any kind of cold meat 
can be chopped and used in this way with boiled mac- 
aroni, cold ham and tongue being particularly nice. 
When white meats are used, thicken the pint of water 
with one table-spoonful of flour worked with one 
table-spoonful of butter. 

WARMING COLD MEATS. 

Unless cold meat is to be served in a stew, it should 
be cooked but little in reheating. One of the best 
modes of warming any kind of meat is in a gravy. 
Cut the meat into nice pieces, and season with salt 
and pepper. Put the bones and bits of gristle in a 
sauce-jDan with cold water, and boil gently one or two 
hours. Put two table-spoonfuls of butter or drippings 
in a sauce-pan, and when hot add a heaping table- 
spoonful of dry flour. Stir until a rich brown ; then 
add a pint of the broth, and cook five minutes. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Add the meat, and simmer 
until it is heated through. This sauce is enough for 
three pints of meat. The dish may be varied by add- 
ing to the meat one teaspoonful or more of curry pow- 
der, by adding one cu'JDful of tomatoes to the sauce, 
vr by frying one onion with the butter or drippings 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. I5I 

before the flour is added. When the meat is white 
the flour can be cooked with the butter until it bub- 
bles, but it must not brown ; then a pint of milk can 
be used in place of the broth. 

cottager's pie. 

Make a sauce as directed for cold meats. Add 
three pints of cold meat cut in small, thin bits, and 
put in a deep dish. Cover with one'quart of mashed 
potato, and brown in the oven. 

WARMING COLD FISH. . 

All kinds of cold fish can be warmed in a white 
sauce, and be served in it in a border of plain or 
mashed potatoes ; or the fish may be added to the 
sauce, put in a deep dish, covered with bread crumbs, 
and browned in the oven ; or it may be covered with 
mashed potato, instead of the crumbs, and browned. 

Sauce for one quart of cold fish : one pint of milk, 
one table-spoonful of butter, one of flour, salt, pepper. 
Let the milk come to the boiling point. Rub the but- 
ter and flour together until smooth, and stir into the 
boiling milk. Boil three minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper. Add the fish, and simmer until hot. 

COLD POTATOES. 

Cold boiled potatoes, if properly prepared, make a 
pleasant addition to any meal. The common way is 
to fry — or, rather, soak — them in fat; and they 
come to the table, some hard and some soft, and all 
greasy. Use as little fat as possible in warming 
over potatoes, and cook them only long enough to 



152 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

heat them thoroughly. Here are several modes of 
preparing them : — 

1. Cut the potatoes into thin slices. Season with 
salt and pepper, and chop a little. For one quart of 
potato put a large table-spoonful of butter, or any 
kind of sweet drippings, in the frying-pan, and when 
hot add the potatoes. Stir and cut with a knife un- 
til they are thoroughly heated. Turn into a warm 
dish, and serve immediately. 

2. Put one large table-spoonful of sweet drippings 
in the frying-pan, and, when hot, add one table-spoon- 
ful of chopped onion. Fry till of a light straw color; 
then add one quart of chopped and seasoned pota- 
toes. Stir frequently with a fork until hot. Serve in 
a warm dish. 

3. Put half a pint of milk in the frying-pan, and 
while it is heating rub together one table-spoonful of 
butter and one teaspoonful of flour. As soon as the 
milk boils, stir the flour and butter into it. Boil up, 
and season with salt and pepper. Now add a pint 
and a half of cold potatoes, cut into rather large 
dice, and seasoned with salt and pepper. 

4. Put one cupful of milk in the frying-pan, and 
when it boils add one table-spoonful of butter, some 
salt and pepper, and a quart of rather finely-chopped 
potatoes, seasoned with salt and pepper. Stir with a 
fork until hot. Serve immediately in a hot dish. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

Use all kinds of vegetables left from- a boiled din- 
ner. After cutting the potatoes, carrots, turnips, 
beets, and parsnips into slices, put them with the 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. I 53 

cabbage, and either chop in a tray or cut with a 
knife. Dredge with salt, pepper, and a little flour. 
For each quart of the vegetable mixture use a table- 
spoonful of drippings. Put all in the frying-pan, 
cover, and heat slow^ly. If there be a large quantity 
of cabbage it will make the hash moist enough, but if 
not a few spoonfuls of the water in which the vege- 
tables were boiled will be an improvement. Be care- 
ful not to get too much carrot in the hash. A very 
little gives it a pleasing flavor, but a large quantity 
destroys the flavor of the other vegetables. Have 
the vegetables as nearly as possible in this propor- 
tion : six parts cabbage, four parts turnip, four parts 
potato, three parts beet, two parts parsnip, one part 
carrot. Of course, in making a hash like this, one 
has to use what is left, and these proportions are not 
always possible. Any other kind of vegetable that 
you may have can be used also. 

COLD VEGETABLES. 

Cabbage. — Cold cabbage, chopped, and warmed 
with one tablespoonful of pork fat or butter to each 
quart of cabbage, is nice served on toast. Boil two 
quarts of pared potatoes, and when they are done 
drain off the water, mash well, and add one table- 
spoonful of butter, one quart of chopped cabbage, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Stir over the fire until 
hot. Or heat one quart of cold cabbage with one 
table-spoonful of drippings and two table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar. 

Beets, etc. — Cold beets can be cut into slices and 
covered with vinegar ; or they can be cut into dice, 



154 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

and warmed in a sauce made with half a cupful of 
milk thickened with half a teaspoonful of flour rubbed 
with one teaspoonful of butter. This is enough sauce 
for a pint of beets. 

Carrots, beans, and other cooked vegetables can be 
served in the same manner. 

STEAMED RICE. 

One cupful of rice, three cupfuls of cold water, one 
teaspoonful of salt. Wash the rice in three waters, 
and put it and the salt and water in a bowl that will 
hold about three pints. Steam one hour. When 
ready to serve, turn into a warm vegetable dish. 
The rice will keep its shape if taken out. gently, and 
seems especially palatable served in this way. 

DINNER APPLE SAUCE. 

Put two quarts of pared and quartered apples in a 
deep earthen dish, and sprinkle over them one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, half a cupful of sugar, one 
third of a cupful of molasses, and one cupful of water. 
Cut one table-spoonful of butter into little bits, and 
sprinkle over the top. Cover the dish with a large 
plate, and bake in a slow oven for one hour. All 
sugar or all molasses may be used. The quantity 
named does not give much sweetness. More sugar 
may be used if the sauce be liked sweet. 

RHUBARB SAUCE. 

Strip the thin skin from the rhubarb. Cut the stalk 
into pieces about an inch long. Wash, and put in a 
stew-pan, covering with boiling water. In an hour 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. - 155 

pour off the water. To each quart of rhubarb add 
one fourth of a cupful of water and one large cupful 
of sugar. Stew up quickly, and cool in an earthen 
dish. This gives a light green sauce. It may be put 
in an earthen dish, covered with a plate, and baked 
one hour in a moderate oven. By this mode of prepa- 
ration the pieces are preserved unbroken. 

BROWN BETTY PUDDING. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, two cupfuls of finely- 
chopped tart apples, half a cupful of brown sugar, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one table-spoonful of butter 
cut into little bits. Butter a deep dish, and put a 
layer of apple on the bottom ; then sprinkle with 
sugar, cinnamon, and butter, and cov^er with bread 
crumbs. Put in another layer of apple, and proceed 
as before, until all-the ingredients are used, having a 
layer of crumbs on top. Cov^er the dish, and bake 
forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Remove the 
cover, and brown the top of the pudding. Place 
the dish in a clean one, or pin a napkin around it. 
Serve with sugar and milk. 

TROY PUDDING. 

Half a cupful each of chopped suet, chopped rai- 
sins, molasses, and milk, two cupfuls of flour, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, half a teaspoonful of salt. Dis- 
jbolve the soda in the milk, after which mix all the in- 
gredients together. Turn into a buttered brown bread 
tin, or a three-pint basin, and steam two hours. 
Serve hot, with a cold or hot sauce. 



156 'HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY, 
HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING'. 

One and a half cupfuls of sour milk, one and a half 
of molasses, five and a half of flour, one teaspoonful 
of soda, half a teaspoonful of salt, one quart of ber- 
ries. Dissolve the soda in the milk, and mix with 
the molasses and salt. Beat the flour into this mixt- 
ure, and add the berries. Steam three hours. These 
quantities will make one large or two small puddings. 
Serve with a sweet sauce. Sweet milk can be used if 
you have not the sour. 

SUET INDIAN PUDDING. 

Two cupfuls of sour milk, one of chopped suet, one 
and a half of granulated corn meal, one teaspoonful 
of soda, one of salt. Put the molasses, milk, and salt 
together. Dissolve the soda in two table-spoonfuls of 
hot water, and add it and the meal to the mixture ; 
then add the suet. Steam three hours. Serve with a 
sweet sauce. A pint of chopped apples or of berries 
may be added with the suet. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, one of flour, one of berries, three 
eggs. Beat the eggs well, but not the yolks and 
whites separately, and add the milk to them. Pour 
gradually upon the flour, beating well ; then add the 
berries. Turn into a buttered earthen dish, and bake 
one hour. Serve with a sweet sauce. 



ADDITIOXAL RECEIPTS. I 57 

BAKED TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one small cupful of tapioca, one 
cupful of cold water, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 
salt, an orange, half a cupful of sugar. Wash the tap- 
ioca in plenty of water, and let it soak in the cupful 
of cold water for one hour, at the end of which time 
add the milk to it, and cook in the double boiler for an 
hour. Let it cool. Beat the salt, sugar, and eggs 
together, and add to the cooked tapioca and milk. 
Turn into a pudding dish. Cut the orange into thin 
slices, and lay these over the top. Bake forty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. One teaspoonful of lemon 
or vanilla extract, or a slight grating of nutmeg, may 
be used instead of the orange. If you are in a hurry 
for the pudding the eggs and sugar may be added 
while the mixture is hot. It will then take from fifteen 
to twenty minutes to bake. Adding the eggs to the 
cold mixture will, however, give you a smoother and 
firmer pudding. 

BOILED TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One large cupful of tapioca, two cupfuls of cold 
water, one quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt. 
Wash the tapioca, and soak it for one hour in the two 
cupfuls of w^ater. Add the milk, and cook in the 
double boiler one hour. When it has been cooking 
three quarters of an hour, add the salt, stirring well. 
This pudding is nice either hot or cold. To be 
served with sugar and milk. 



1 5 8 HOUSEHOLD MANA CEMENT AND COOKER Y 
OATMEAL PUDDING. 

Make oatmeal mush, as directed on page 87. 
Turn into a mould or bowl, and set away to cool. To 
be eaten with sugar and milk. 

Another way to make the pudding is to stir one 
cupful of oatmeal and one teaspoonful of salt into 
one quart of, boiling water, and cook one hour ; then 
add one generous pint of milk, and cook thirty min- 
utes longer. Turn into a mould, and set away to 
cool. The oatmeal can be cooked in the double 
boiler, and will then require one third less water. It 
need not be stirred after the first hour. 

HOMINY. PUDDING. 

Cook the hominy as directed on page 87. Turn 
into a mould, and set away to cool. Serve with sugar 
and milk. 

CORN-STARCH PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, four table-spoonfuls of corn- 
starch, one teaspoonful of salt. Put tlie milk on to 
boil, reserving half a cupful to mix with the corn- 
starch. When the milk boils, add the corn-starch, 
mixed with the cold milk and salt. Beat well, and 
cook twelve minutes. Serve with sugar and milk. 
This is nice hot or cold. If you choose, you may 
add one third of a cupful of sugar and one teaspoon- 
ful of lemon or vanilla extract ; or the sugar and a 
grating of nutmeg, if you intend serving it cold. The 
sugar and flavor can be added when you take it from 
the fire, being careful to beat them in well. Or you 
may add a tumbler of bright jelly just as you take the 
pudding from the fire. 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 59 

HOT FARINA PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, four heaping table-spoonfuls of 
farina, one teaspoonful of salt. Put all the milk but 
half a cupful on to boil. When it boils, add the fa- 
rina and salt, mixed with the cold milk. Cook one 
hour, stirring frequently. Serve with sugar and milk. 

COLD FARINA PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, three 
table-spoonfuls of farina. Mix the farina, salt, and 
half a cupful of the milk together. Let the remain- 
der of the milk come to the boiling point, and stir 
the farina into it. Cook one hour; then add three 
table-spoonfuls of sugar and one teaspoonful of va- 
nilla or lemon flavor, or a little nutmeg. Turn into a 
mould, and set awav to cool. The su2:ar and flavor 
may be omitted, and one tumbler of jelly stirred in 
instead. When the pudding is cold, serve with sugar 
and milk. 

GINGERBREAD PUDDING. 

One cupful of molasses, one of milk (sour or sweet), 
three of flour, one table-spoonful of drippings, one 
table-spoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of soda, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, one table-spoonful of vine- 
gar. Mix together the molasses, seasonings, and 
drippings. Dissolve the soda in the milk, and add to 
the molasses ; then add the flour, and finally the vine- 
gar. Bake in shallow pans, and serve hot with cream 
sauce. (See page 80.) If the mixture be an inch 
deep it will take twenty minutes to bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 



l60 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 
RICE AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Two quarts of pared and quartered apples, one cup- 
ful of rice, one table-spoonful of salt. Wash the rice, 
and boil in one pint of water for ten minutes. Wring 
a pudding cloth out of hot water, and spread on a flat 
dish. Ov^er the cloth spread the rice, and sprinkle 
the salt over it ; then spread on the apples. Tie very 
tightly, plunge into boiling water, and boil constantly 
for one hour. Take up the pudding, and plunge into 
cold water for an instant. Cut the string, and turn 
the pudding into a deep dish. It should come out in 
the form of a ball. Serve with molasses sauce. Less 
apple may be used, if you prefer, and any kind of 
sweet sauce will be good with this pudding. 

SJEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

Three pints of pared and quartered apples, two 
thirds of a cupful of sug^, one pint of water, a little 
cinnamon or nutmeg. Put the apples and other 
ingredients in a deep tin basin holding about three 
pints, and place this on the stove, keeping it there 
until the pudding has been heated to the boiling point. 
While the apples are cooking make some biscuit, 
using half the quantities given in the rule in this ap- 
pendix. The dough should be rolled down to the 
thickness of about half an inch. The surface of the 
boiling apple is to be covered with the dough, and then 
the pudding is to be covered with a buttered pan like 
that in which it is cooking. Boil gently twelve min- 
utes. Remove the upper pan, and place the lower on a 
china dish, and send to the table. Blueberries or 
rhubarb may be used instead of the apple. 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. l6l 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Five pints of milk, thirteen table-spoonfuls of Indian 
meal, one cupful of molasses, one teaspoonful of salt. 
Let two quarts of the milk heat to the boiling point, 
and pour it gradually on the meal. Put the mixture 
in the double boiler, and boil half an hour, stirring 
frequently ; then add the salt and molasses. Let the 
mixture stand until blood warm. Turn into a buttered 
pudding dish, and add a pint of cold milk, but do not 
stir. Bake three hours in a slow oven. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One pint of boiling water, two lemons, half a cup- 
ful of sugar, four table-spoonfuls of corn-starch, half a 
cupful of cold water, the whites of four eggs. Put the 
boiling water in the double boiler, with lemon juice 
and sugar. Add the corn-starch, which has been 
mixed with the cold water. Cook ten minutes. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and after remov- 
ing the boiling mixture from the fire add them to it. 
Put in moulds, to cool. Serve with a soft custard, 
made of one pint of milk, the yolks of the four eggs, 
one whole ^2,^., and one fourth of a cupful of sugar. 
Beat the eggs and sugar together ; add the milk to 
them, and stir in the double boiler until the mixture 
begins to thicken. When it looks as thick at the edge 
of the spoon as in the centre, it is done. Season with 

lemon or vanilla, and serve cold 
11 



r62 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 
SUNDAY PUDDING. 

One quart of sifted flour, one coffee-cupful of stoned 
and chopped raisins, half a teacupful each of molas- 
ses and sugar, two teacupfuls of sour milk, a teacupful 
of chopped suet, one teaspoonful of salt, one of soda. 
Mix all the ingredients together, adding the soda, 
which has been dissolved in three table-spoonfuls of 
hot water, last. Steam from three to five hours. Three 
will do, but five makes it richer. 

BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Two thirds of a cupful of rice, half a cupful of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, a generous quart of 
milk. Wash the rice, and mix with other ingredients. 
Bake slowly one hour, stirring twice during the first 
half hour. This pudding is good without a sauce, 
but is very nice with currant or other jelly. 

HASTY PUDDING. 

Mix a pint of Indian meal with one of cold water, 
and stir into a quart of boiling water. Place the 
stew-pan on the fire until the mixture boils, stirring 
often ; then place in a basin of boiling water, and 
cook two hours. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

Sea-moss farine is one of the simplest, cheapest, 
and most healthful preparations in the market for 
making blanc-mange. Follow the rule closely, and you 
will always be sure of perfect success. One quart of 
milk, one scant table-spoonful of farine, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one large teaspoonful of vanilla or 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 63 

emon extract. Put the milk in a double boiler, and 
sprinkle in the farine. Stir well, and heat slowly, 
stirring often. When it is a little frothy on top add 
the sugar, and cook ten minutes longer. Take from 
the fire, and add the flavor. Turn into moulds, and 
set away to cool. When cold, serve with sugar and 
cream or milk. Cups or bowls will answer to cool it 
in, if you have no moulds. 

COLD SAUCE. 

Four table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a table-spoonful 
of butter, one teaspoonful of hot water, half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract. Beat the butter to a 
cream. Add the sugar gradually, and the water and 
flavor, and when smooth and creamy put in a small 
dish, and grate nutmeg on top. To be served with 
any kind of hot pudding. 

MOLASSES SAUCE. 

One cupful of molasses, one table-spoonful of but- 
ter, half a cupful of water, half a cupful of sugar, a 
little nutmeg, the juice of one lemon or one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of corn-starch. 
Mix the corn-starch with a little cold water, and add 
it to the other ingredients. Cook all together twenty 
minutes. 

PLAIN PIE CRUST. 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of baking-pow- 
der, one cupful of lard or butter, one table-spoonful of 
salt, one of sugar^ one cupful and a quarter of water. 
Mix the salt, sugar, and baking-powder thoroughly 



164 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

with the flour ; then rub in half the lard or butter. 
Add the water, stirring with a knife. When the paste 
is a smooth ball place it on a //^////j^-floured board, 
and roll down to the thickness of about one fourth of 
an inch. Spread half of the remaining shortening on 
it, and sprinkle lightly with flour. Fold up, and roll 
down to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Add 
the remainder of the butter, fold up and roll down as 
before. Now roll up again, and set away to cool ; or 
it can be used immediately. This is enough for four 
pies of medium size. Beef suet can be used instead 
of lard or butter. The suet may be tried out and 
cooled, or it can be chopped very fine, and used the 
same as the lard or butter. Everything should be 
as cold as possible when making the crust and using 
it. Pies ought not to be given preference over pud- 
dings, which are not only more easily made, but are 
cheaper and more healthful. 

APPLE PIE. 

Cover a deep pie-plate with plain paste, and fill 
with pared and sliced apples. Cover with paste rolled 
a little thicker than for the under crust. Press the 
edges together, and bake the pie in a moderate oven 
for half an hour. As soon as it is cooked, lift the 
cover off, and add to the apples bits of butter, if you 
like, and half a cupful of sugar dissolved in a few ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of water. Grate a little nutmeg over the 
whole mixture. Return the cover and set away to 
cool. The amount of sugar necessary will vary. 
If the apples be very sour more sugar will be required 
than the quantity given above, and if they be mild 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 65 

less. Evaporated apples can be used instead of the 
green ones. Wash one pint of them, and soak over 
night in a little more than enough cold water to cover. 
In making the pie, proceed the same as with the green 
apples, adding to thefruit, however, three table-spoon- 
fuls of the water in which it was soaked. 

RHODE ISLAND PIE. 

One quart of pared and sliced apple, one fourth of 
a cupful of sugar, one fourth of a cupful of water, one 
third of a cupful of molasses, half a teaspoonful of 
cinnamon. Put these ingredients in a deep pie-plate, 
and cover with a plain crust. Bake from thirty to 
forty minutes. When ready to serve, run a knife be- 
tween the crust and the plate, place a large plate on 
top, and turn both plates simultaneously. This leaves 
the crust on the bottom and the filling on top. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

One cupful of pared and chopped rhubarb, one 
scant cupful of sugar, one ^^^^ well beaten, half a tea- 
spoonful of flour. Line a pie-plate with plain paste. 
Mix the rhubarb, sugar, flour, and egg together, and 
turn into the plate. Cover with a thin crust, pressing 
the edges of the paste together, and bake forty min- 
utes. 

LEMON PIE. 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, one lemon, one 
cupful of boiling water, one table-spoonful of corn- 
starch, one table-spoonful of powdered sugar. Mix the 
corn-starch with three table-spoonfuls of cold water, 
and pour the boiling water upon it. Beat together 



1 66 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

the sugar, lemon juice and rind, and one white and 
the yolks of the eggs. Pour the corn-starch mixture 
on this. Have a deep plate lined with plain paste, 
r.nd pour the combined mixtures into it. Bake slowly 
for thirty-five minutes. When the pie is nearly cold, 
beat the two remaining Qg^ whites to a stiff froth, and 
then beat the powdered sugar in with them. Brown 
slowly in a rather cool oven. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a deep pie-plate with plain paste. Beat two 
eggs with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, one fourth of 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a little nutmeg. Beat with 
a spoon, and not too light. Add a scant pint of 
milk. Stir well, and turn the custard into the plate. 
Bake in a moderate oven until firm in the centre. 

SQUASH PIE. 

One small cupful of stewed and strained squash, 
one large cupful of boiling milk, one table-spoonful of 
powdered cracker, one fourth of a cupful of sugar, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, one fourth of a teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, a slight grating of nutmeg. Mix 
the seasonings and cracker with the squash. Pour 
the boiling milk on this mixture, which let stand until 
it cools. Pour into a deep plate that has been lined 
with plain paste, and bake slowly one hour 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One quart of flour, one cupful of sugar, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, two eggs, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a little nutmeg, one cupful of milk. Mix 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 6/ 

all the dry ingredients together, and rub through a 
sieve ; then add the beaten eggs and the milk, stirring 
well with a spoon. Flour the board, and put about 
one fourth of the mixture on it in the shape of a ball. 
Roll down to the thickness of about half an inch, and 
cut into round cakes. If you have no regular cutter, 
cut a small piece from the centre of the cakes with a 
thimble. Fry in a deep kettle of lard or drippings. 
Handle the dough as little as possible ; working flour 
into it toughens the doughnuts. If you like them 
cracked open on one side, do not turn them while fry- 
ing until they are cooked on the under side. They 
will cook in about four minutes. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One cupful of molasses, half a cupful of brown 
sugar, one cupful of lard or nice drippings, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one cupful of cold water, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one heaping teaspoonful of ginger, 
enough flour to make stiff for rolling. Mix the mo- 
lasses and lard together, and add the salt and ginger. 
Dissolve the soda in the water, and add to the other 
ingredients. Stir in the flour, and when a firm batter 
has been formed put part of it on the floured board, 
and roll down to the thickness of about an eighth of 
an inch. Cut into round cakes, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

PLAIN SUGAR COOKIES. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, lard, or 
drippings, half a cupful of milk, one teaspoonful and 
a half of baking-powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
little nutmeg, flour enough to make stiff for rolling. 



1 68 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

Make and bake the same as the molasses cookies. 
Always use as little flour as possible in making cook- 
ies. 

SUET CAKE. 

One cupful of milk, two and a half cupfuls of flour, 
two thirds of a cupful of molasses, two thirds of a cup- 
ful of sugar, one cupful of chopped suet, one ^gg^ one 
heaping teaspoonful of soda, one even teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one table-spoonful of vinegar, spice 
to taste, or not,.as you please. Beat the egg first, and 
add the molasses and sugar, beating well again. Mix 
the soda and milk together. Mix the flour and cream 
of tartar together, and add to them the other ingredi- 
ents, the suet and vinegar being taken lasj!:. Bake 
thirty minutes in shallow pans. The quantities given 
are sufficient for two sheets. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Half a cupful each of molasses, milk, sugar, butter, 
and raisins or currants, two and a half cupfuls of 
sifted flour, one ^gg^ half a teaspoonful of clove, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of soda. 
Beat the &gg^ sugar, and butter together. Add the 
molasses and the milk, in which should be dissolved 
the soda ; then add the flour and spices, and finally 
the fruit. Bake half an hour in shallow pans in a 
moderate oven. This is a good cake without the fruit. 
Two sheets can be made with the quantities named. 

POVERTY CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, two and a half cupfuls of sifted 
flour, one large table-spoonful of butter (lard or drip- 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 1 69 

pings will do), one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda or one and a half teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, one 
cupful of milk. Have the butter soft, and rub it to- 
gether with the sugar. Mix the soda with the flour, 
and rub through the sieve. Add the milk to the sugar 
and butter ; then add the flour and a little nutmeg. 
Bake in shallow pans in a rather quick oven for 
twenty-five minutes. A few currants make a pleasant 
change. The quantities given will make two sheets. 

SPICE BREAD. 

Make bread according to the rule on page 69, and 
when it has risen work into it one cupful of brown 
sugar, half a cupful of butter or drippings, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of clove, 
half a teaspoonful of allspice. Shape into loaves, and 
let these rise slowly for two hours. Bake one hour 
and a quarter. This bread keeps well, and takes the 
place of cake with children. A cupful each of raisins 
and currants makes a great improvement. 

SWEDISH BREAD. 

When yeast bread has risen and is ready for the 
pans, take one pint of the dough and roll it very thin. 
Spread over this one table-spoonful of cinnamon 
mixed with half a cupful of sugar. First moisten the 
sheet of bread with cold water, then sprinkle with the 
cinnamon and sugar. Roll very tight, and cut into 
slices with a sharp knife. Place the slices on well- 
greased tins. Let them rise one hour and a quarter, 
and bake them in a quick oven. If you like, spread 
the dough with butter instead of water. 



170 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 

PANCAKES. 

Two eggs, two cupfuls of sour milk, one table-spoon- 
ful of butter, one teacupful of sugar, five cupfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of soda. Beat the eggs, and add 
them to the milk, sugar, and the butter, which must 
be melted. Stir this mixture into the flour. Dissolve 
the soda in three table-spoonfuls of hot water, and 
add to the. batter the last thing. Have a deep kettle 
of boiling fat, and drop the mixture into it in half 
spoonfuls ; the spoon being first dipped in water or 
milk. Cook five minutes. 

SPIDER CORN-CAKE. 

One and two thirds cupfuls of meal, one third of a 
cupful of flour, two eggs, two cupfuls of sweet milk 
and one of sour, one fourth of a cupful of sugar, a 
small teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, a 
piece of butter half the size of an ^gg. Dissolve 
the soda in one cupful of the sweet milk. Beat the 
eggs light. Add the milk in which the soda is dis- 
solved and also the sour milk to the dry ingredients, 
and then add the eggs. Have a large frying-pan very 
hot. Put the butter in it, greasing the sides well, and 
pour in the mixture. Now pour in the other cupful of 
sweet milk, but do not stir the cake. Place .the frying- 
pan in a hot oven, and bake from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes. 

BISCUIT. 

One quart of unsifted flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder, one table-spoonful of butter, lard, or 
drippings, one teaspoonful of salt, one table-spoonful 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. \Jl 

of sugar, milk or water enough to make a soft dough 
(nearly a pint). Mix the dry ingredients together, 
and rub through a sieve ; add the wetting, and stir 
with a spoon until a smooth paste is formed. Sprinkle 
the board lightly with flour, and roll the dough down 
on it to the thickness of about half an inch. Cut into 
small cakes, and bake fifteen minutes in a very hot 
oven. 

STEAMED INDIAN BREAD. 

Tavo cupfuls of sweet milk, one of sour, three of 
corn meal, one of flour, two thirds of a cupful of mo- 
lasses, one teaspoonful of soda, one of salt, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Mix together the flour, meal, and 
salt. Dissolve the soda in the sweet milk. Mix the 
sour milk, molasses, and vinegar together. Add the 
soda and sweet milk to them, and stir all in with the 
meal and flour. Beat well, and turn into greased tins. 
Steam two hours. 




INDEX. 



Air, I 

Albuminous matter, 32 
Analogy between the living 
body and a steam-engine, 26 
Apple sauce, 1 10 
Articles for the cooking room, 

128 
Baking powders, 55 
Barley,' 5 1 
Beans, baked, loi 

stewed, 102 
Beef olives, 90 

tea, 117 
Beefsteak, 121 
Boiling, 34 
Bread, 46, 67 

aerated, 54 

biscuit, 170 

brown bread, 88 

Graham, 72 

hints on making, 52, 70 

leaven, 54 

pancakes, 170 

salt-rising bread, 54 

spiced bread, 169 

spider corn-cake, 170 

Swedish bread, 169 

yeast, 67 

yeast bread, 69 
Broiling, 34, 78 
Broth, chicken, 118 
Buckwheat,. 51 
Burns, 124 



Cake : 

corn-cake, spider, 170 

molasses cookies, 167 
gingerbread, 94 

pancakes, 170 

poverty cake, 168 

spice, 169 

sponge, 94 

suet, 168 

sugar cookies, 167 
Carbon, 29 

compounds, 31 
Carbonic acid, 2 
Care of the house, 5 
Chamber work, 16 
Chicken broth, 118 
Chocolate, 66 
Chowders : 

chicken, 135 

clam, 133 

fish, 89, 134 

potato, 135 

tomato, 136 
Classification of food, 31 
Cocoa, 65 
Coffee, 62 

boiled, 62 

filtered, 63 

steamed, 64 
Cold fish, 151 

meats, 150 

potatoes, 151 

sauce, 163. 



174 



INDEX. 



Cold vegetables, 153 
Composition of the human 

body, 27 
Condiments, 56 
Constipation, cure for, 124 
Cooking room, articles for, 128 
Corn bread, 170 

tea, 119 
Corn-starch pudding, 158 
Cottager's pie, 151 
Custard pie, 166 
Custards, baked, 115 

steamed, 115 
Digestion, remarks on, 22 
Doughnuts, 166 
Dumplings, 75 
Egg-nog, 122 
Eggs, 36 

boiled, 36 
dropped, 37 
omelets, 37, 112 
poached, 37 
Elements of the human body, 

29 
Filling for cream pies, 95 
Fires, 22 
Fish, 38 

baked, 82 
boiled, 147 
broiled, 78, 148 
clams, 38 
clam chowder, 133 

soup, 133 
cold fish, to warm, 151 
fish balls, 86 

chowder, 89, 134 
hash, 86 
stew, 140 
fried fish, 148 
lobsters, 38 
mussels, 38 
oyster soup, 113 
oysters, 38 

boiled, 114 
fried, 114 
scalloped, 113 
stewed, 113 



Fish — salt fish, 39 

chowder, 134 
in cream, 149 
with pork, 149 
Flavors, 59 
Flour gruel, 122 
Fruit, 45 
Frying, 35 
Gruel, flour, 122 

Indian meal, 119 
Hoarseness, cure for, 123 
Hominy, 87, 158 
Housework, 14 
Human body, the, 26 
Indian corn, 49 

meal gruel, 119 
Iron rust, 20 
Ironing, 21 
Lace curtains, 20 
Lamb chops, 121 
Lamps, 24 
Leaven, 54 
Lemonade, 43 
Lettuce, 43 

Lungs, drink for the, 123 
Macaroni, 114 

pie, 149 
Meats, 33 

barley stew, 137 

beef's heart, 145 

beefsteak, braised, 141 

beef olives, 87 

beef stew, 74 

chicken chowder, 135 

corned beef stew, 138 

cottager's pie, 151 

flank of beef, roiled, 144 

fricassee of cold meat, 143 
of veal,, 143 

Irish stew, 138 
■' kidneys, 146 

liver, baked, 146 
fried, 146 

macaroni pie, 149 

meat hash, 85 

mutton chops, 121 
stew, 138 



INDEX, 



175 



Meats — pot-ati-feu, 81 

roasting, 76 

sausage stew, 139 

sheep's hearts, 145 

stewed beef, 141 

veal, fricassee of, 143 
olives, 91 
pot pie, 142 
stew, 139 

warming cold meats, 150 
Milk, 35 
Mint, 57 
Muffins, 72 

Graham, 79 
Mustard, 57 
Mutton chops, 121 
Nitrogen, 2 

compounds, 31 
Oatmeal, 50 

gruel, 119 

mush, 87 
Olives, beef, 90 

veal, 91 
Omelets, y], 112 
Order of housework, 14 
Oxygen, i 
Pancakes, 170 
l^ears, baked, no 
Pepper, 56 
Pie crust, 163 
Pies : 

apple, 164 

cottager's, 151 

cream, 95 

custard, r66 

lemon, 165 

Rhode Island, 165 

rhubarb, 165 

squash, 166 

Washington, 95 
Plum porridge, 119 
Potatoes, 41 

boiled, 79 

cold, 151 
Poultry, 103 

chicken broth, 1 18 
chowder, 135 



Poultry — roast chicken, 104 
duck, 105 
■goose, 105 
grouse, 106 
partridge, 106 
small birds, 106 
turkey, 103 
Puddings : 

apple dowdy, 92 

batter pudding, 156 

blanc-mange, 162 

bread pudding, 80 

brown Betty, 155 

corn-starch, 158 

custard, 115 

farina, 159 

fruit, 160 

gingerbread, 159 

hasty, 162 

hominy, 158 

huckleberry, 156 

Indian, 83, 161 

minute, 87 

•oatmeal, 158 

rice, baked, 92, 162 
boiled, 91 
steamed, 154 

rice and apple, 160 

snow, 161 

suet Indian, 156 

Sunday, 162 

tapioca, baked, 157 
boiled, 157 

Troy, 155 

whitpot, 95 
Quaker omelet, 112 
Rice, 51, 154 

coffee, 121 
Roasting, 34, 76 
Rye, 50 

Sack posset, 1 18 
Sage, 57 

Salad dressings, 98 
Salads, 43, 98 

chicken, loi 

lettuce, 100 

lobster, loi 



176 



INDEX. 



Salads — potato, 100 

vegetable, 99 
Salt, 56 

meats, ■;'; 
Sauces : 

apple, no, 154 
baked pears, no 
■ coddled apples, in 
cranberry, in 
rhubarb, 154 
stewed prunes, in 
for meats, fish, and vegeta- 
bles : 

bread, 108 

caper, 108 

celery, 108 

cream, 108 

drawn butter, 107 

egg, 107 

Hollandaise, 109 

milk, no 

mint, 108 

oyster, 107 

tomato, 109 
for puddings : 

cold, 163 

cream, 80 

lemon, 93 

molasses, 163 

vinegar, 88 
Shells, 66 

Sick-room cookery, 116 
Soups : 

bean, 131 

clam chowder, 133 

soup, 133 
chicken chowder, 135 
onion soup, 131 
oyster, 113 
pea, 130 

potato chowder, 135 
pot-aiifac, 81 
salt fish chowder, 134 
shin of beef soup, 132 
tomato chowder, 136 

soup, 83 
vegetable, 132 



Spice, 58 
Starching, 20 
Steamed i-ice, 154 
Stewing, 34 
Stews : 

barley, 137 

beef, 74 

corned beef, 138 

fish, 140 

Irish, 138 

mutton, 138 

parsnip, 137 

sausage, 139 

veal, 139 

vegetable, 141 
Summer savory, 57 
vSweet marjoram, 57 
Tea, 61 
Thyme, 57 
Toast, cream, 121 

milk, 115 
Vegetables, 41, 95 

beans, 42, 92 
baked, loi 
stewed, 102 

beets, 41, 96, 153 

cabbage, 42, 96, 153 
■carrots, 43, 96, 153 

celery, 44, 96 

cucumbers, 44 

onions, 42, 96 

parsnips, 43, 96, 137 

peas, 42, 96 

potatoes, 41, 96, 151 

squash, 41, 96 

sweet potatoes, 42, 96 

tomatoes, 42, 96 

turnips, 41, 96 
Ventilation, 5 
Washing clothes, 18 

floors and tables, 17 
Water, 8 

cresses, 44 
Watery vapor, 3 
Whey, sour milk, 120 

vinegar, 120 

wine, 119 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




