Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



+ - : ; 





» 


* 

















» 






•* 

* 


4* 


• 


*• _£ 








*t • - 


V 


A 1 


V 


t 

• 

•v 


w ■ t « 


IE ♦ 




> 

* 


#■ 




* 
V 








* 

* 




• 


z 


» 






* 


1 


• 


,*.■*• 


v 







ON- DIET AND REGIMEN, 

Etc. 






**« 



ON 



DIET AND REGIMEN 



IN 



SICKNESS AND HEALTH, 



AND 



ON THE INTERDEPENDENCE AND PREVENTION OF DISEASES 
AND THE DIMINUTION OF THEIR FATALITY. 



BY 



HORACE DOBELL, M.D., 

CONSULTING PHYSICIAN (LATE SENIOR PHYSICIAN) TO THE ROYAL HOSPITAL FOB 

DISEASES OF THE CHEST ; CONSULTLNG PHYSICIAN (LATE PHYSICIAN) 

TO THE ROYAL ALBERT ORPHAN ASYLUM, 

ETC., ETC. 



8EVENTH EDITION REVISED AND ENLARGE 




LONDON : 
H. K. LEWIS, 136, GOWER STREET, W.C. 

1882. 



151. f 




LONDON: 
PRINTED BY WBRTHEIMER, LEA AND CO., 
CIRCUS PLACE, LONDON WALL. 



(1878) 

Once more i may repeat the thanks, 

expressed in all the former editions op this work, 

for the generous assistance i had received 

in my scientific calculations 

from the arithmetical skill of my dear old friend 

J. J. FARRANTS, F.R.C.S., 

LATE PRESIDENT OF THE MICROSCOPICAL SOCIETY ; 

WHOSE GENIAL SPIRIT 

HAS NOW FOR EVER PASSED 

BEYOND THE REGIONS OF SCIENCE AND CALCULATION 

TO 
"THAT UNKNOWN, TRACKLESS LAND, FUTURITY; 

GREAT HERITAGE, WHERE NO MAN KNOWS HIS PART." 






» * 



» • 



*K 



I 



> 



» « - 



- <• \ * M 






*.'r 



» . 



PREFACE TO THE SEVENTH EDITION. 



In preparing this work for the press for the seventh 
.time, I may refer to the Prefaces of previous Editions, 
to show the progress of its development. 

I have now endeavoured, by cutting out old matter 
and adding new, to make the book as complete as 
possible. 

A chapter has been added on the " Diet and Regimen 
of Children" — a subject not sufficiently elaborated in 
former editions — and my best thanks are due to my 
colleague, Dr. Sansom, Senior Physician to the North- 
Eastern Children's Hospital, etc., for contributing the 
results of his large experience on the Diet of Infants ; 
also, to the Obstetrical Society of London for their 
important rules for the General Management of Infants ; 
to Dr. West, Consulting Physician to the Hospital for 
Sick Children, for his suggestions as to the Diet of 
Children; and to Dr. C. Meymott Tidy, Professor of 
Chemistry, and of Medical Jurisprudence at the London 
Hospital, for permitting me to quote, from the proof- 
sheets of his forthcoming work on "Legal Medicine," 
the results of his investigations into the normal weights 



*• 



Vlll PREFACE. 

of Infants and the quantities of food which they re- 
quire. 

Some subjects of interest, requiring to be dealt with 
more at length than they could be in the body of the 
work, have been placed in an Appendix. 

Finally, I have altered the form and style of the 
volume so as to make it uniform with my other 
books. 



Feb, 1882. 

84, Harley Street, Streate Place, 

London ; Bournemouth. 



PREFACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION. 

1875. 



In introducing a former edition of this work, I stated that my 
object and endeavour had been to produce a small book founded 
upon accurate scientific data — a book from which a doctor might 
refresh his memory, and at the same time one which he might 
safely place in the hands of his patients, to enlighten them on 
some of those important points which ought to be understood by 
the non-professional, and to teach them how vast and intricate is 
the science and art of " rational medicine." 

This object and endeavour I have steadily kept in view, in pre- 
paring the present edition. To keep it " small/' I have cut 
out all that I thought could be spared ; while to maintain its cha- 
racter as a scientific and practical " refresher" to -both doctor and 
patient, I have been obliged somewhat to increase the size of the 
volume by the following additions : — 

In Chapter I. fresh matter is added under the heads "Smoking" 
and "Afternoon Tea." 

In Chapter II. I have added a new column to the Analysis Ta- 
ble, giving the mechanical equivalents of the British units of heat 
for each article analysed ; also a Table of the weight and cost of 
various alimentary articles required to yield sufficient force to raise 
a certain weight to a certain height ; and an epitome, by a well 
known writer, of the most recent views with regard to food, heat, 
and motion, has been added to the original matter. 

In Chapter III. I have added thirteen pages "On theWholesome- 
ness and Digestibility of various articles of food," which I hope 
will be of much use to those who desire to avoid dyspepsia ; and a 
Table is given showing the percentage of water in various foods 
in common use ; and some remarks on different modes of cooking. 

In Chapter V. I have added to the article "On Getting Thin," 
some directions for "Getting Fat" ; and I would especially call the 
attention of parents and of children's doctors to an article on 
"Fat and Starch in the nutrition of Children." 

In Chapter VI. I have added some remarks on "Acid, Gout, and 
Rheumatism from Fermented Liquors." 



X PREFACE. 

In Chapter VIII. I have added new Recipes, Directions^, mnd 
Appliances for the Sick-room. 

In Part II., Chapter IX., a Table showing " the Interdependence 
of Winter Cough with other Diseases" has been introduced $ 
and finally, the Index has been thoroughly revised. 



w 



PREFACE TO THE FIFTH EDITION. 

1872. 



This work was much enlarged and nearly re-written in its last 
edition just two years ago, and it has now been thoroughly re- 
vised. 

Much new matter has been introduced, and some of the old 
re-arranged. 

"With the valuable assistance of my friend Mr. J. Ii. Johnston, 
late Principal Inspector of Customs Laboratories, the Alcohol Ta- 
ble has been completely recast, and is now, I believe, as nearly 
perfect as it is possible to make it. The Articles on "Wines and 
on House-Drainage and the Orphanage Diet Table are quite new ; 
and other alterations will be found, which I hope will make the 
book more worthy of the favourable reception it has already 
received. 



PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION. 

1870. 



My "Manual of Diet and Regimen " which appeared in 1864, hav- 
ing run through two editions in its first year, I published a third 
and revised edition in January, 1865. This has long been out of 
print, and, as the demand for the Manual did not decrease, I have 
been repeatedly urged to prepare a fourth edition. After many 
delays, from the interruption of other professional work, I have, 
at last, re-written the book, adding much new matter and incor- 
porating several contributions, which I have published from time 
to time, on subjects relating to the preservation of health. I hope 
it will be found that I have thus materially increased the useful- 
ness of the work without adding inconveniently to its length. My 



PREFACE. 

object and endeavour has been to produce a small book founded 
upon accurate scientific data but essentially practical : a book from 
whicjjt a doctor may refresh his memory, and at the same time one 
which he may safely place in the hands of his patients, to en- 
lighten them on some of those important points which ought to be 
understood by the non-professional, and to teach them how vast 
and intricate is the science and art of rational medicine. Thus to 
make them more intelligent patients, and in so doing to remove 
some of the doctor's difficulties in healing them when they are 
ski, and when they are well to strengthen his hands in the pre- 
servation of their health. 

It gives me great pleasure to be able to renew the thanks I 
expressed in 1864 to my friend Mr. Farrants, at that time Presi- 
dent of the Microscopical Society, for the valuable assistance I 
have so frequently received from his remarkable analytical and 
arithmetical talents. 



CONTENTS. 



Preliminary Remarks. 

page 
The Interdependence of Diseases. — Narrow Specialities and 

Broad Departments in the Practice of Medicine. — Nor 
mal Diet. — Errors in Diet. — The Diet of Disease. — Food, 
Heat, and Motion. — Getting Fat and Getting Thin. — 
Alcohol, its Proper Place in Diet. — Regimen, the Regu- 
lation of Habits. — House -Drainage. — Importance of 
Sleep. — Proper Hours for Meals. — Disinfection. — Pseudo- 
Medical Dogmas, Allopathy, Hydropathy, Homoeopathy, 
Kinesipathy. — Rational Medicine . . . . 1 



PART I. 



Chapter 1. 

Rules for Promoting and Maintaining Vigorous Health 
in Adults Living in the Climate op the United 
Kingdom. 

Ventilation and Heating. — Gas. — House-drainage. — Clothing 
and Protection from Cold. — Sleep. — Exercise.— Posture. — 
Bathing. — Regulation of the Bowels. — Rest and Change. 
— Smoking. — Meals. — Proper Hours for Meals. — After- 
noon Tea . . 13 

Chapter II. 

Food, Heat, and Motion. 

A Foot-pound, a Foot-ton, a British Unit of Heat. — Me- 
chanical-equivalent of a British Unit of Heat. — Combus- 
tion of Carbon. — Consumption of Oxygen, Evolution of 
H ea t, — Mode in which the Heat Evolved from Food is 
Disposed of. — Composition of some of the Principal 
Articles of Food and their Heat and Mechanical Equiva- 
lents. — Weight and Cost of Food compared with Work 
Produced. — Uses of Nitrogenous and Non- nitrogenous 
Foods 52 



k 



XIV CONTENTS. 

Chapter III. 

Normal Diet. 

page 
Essentials of a Normal Diet. — Mode of Constructing Diets. — 

Expensive Diets and Cheap Diets for Maintaining 

Health. — Tables and Analyses. — Quantities of Water in 

Different Foods 62 

Chapter IV. 

On the Diet and Regimen of Children. 

Dr. Sansom on the Diet of Infants up to Twelve Months 
old : — Mother's Milk ; Wet-nursing ; Artificial Feeding ; 
Cow's Milk ; Condensed Milk ; Ass's Milk ; Groat's Milk ; 
Artificial Human Milk ; Partial Suckling ; Starchy 
Foods. — Dr. West on the Food for a Child of Eighteen 
Months old. — Obstetrical Society's Rules for the Manage- 
ment of Infants : — Washing ; Clothing ; Ventilation ; 
Sleep ; Air and Exercise ; Feeding ; Diet for a Nursing 
Woman ; Mixed Feeding for Children ; Weaning ; Food 
of grown up People bad for Children ; Hand Feeding. — 
The Weight of Infants. — Quantity of Food required by 
Infants 71 

Chapter V. 

On the Wholesomeness and Digestibility op Various 
Articles of Food and on the Modes of Cooking in 

Common Use. 

Beef and Mutton, and some General Directions. — Proper 
Method of Cutting-up Food. — Veal and Lamb. — Pork. — 
Ham and Bacon. — Poultry, Game, Wild Fowl. — Venison 
and Hare. — Rabbit. — Fish.— Shell Fish. — Wholesomeness 
and Digestibility of Various Articles of Food : Bread ; 
Cheese and Cream Cheese ; Milk ; Vegetables. — Boiling. 
Roasting. — Baking. — Frying. — Stewing. — Loss of Weight 
by Cooking 84 

Chapter VI. 

Some Principles of Diet in Disease. 

Principles upon which to Arrange the Diets of Disease. — Rules 
for Carrying out these Principles. — Examples of Diets 
for Consumption and for Diabetes 107 



CONTENTS. XV 

Chapter VII. 
Fat. 

PAGE 

Fat Essential to Healthy Nutrition. — Importance of Distin- 
guishing between Solid and Liquid Fats. — On Getting 
Fat and Getting Thin.— On Getting Thin. — Bantingism. 
— Analysis of Banting-diet, Showing its Error and Ad- 
vantages. — On Getting Fat. — On Atrophy and Debility 
in Children, and on Fat and Starch in their Nutrition . 124 

Chapter VIII. 

Fermented Liquors. 

Administration of Alcohol. — Properties of Various Wines. — 
Wines in General. — Spanish Wines. — German Wines. — 
Hungarian Wines. — Greek Wines. — Acid, Gout, Rheu- 
matism from Fermented Liquors.— Acid and Sugar in 
Spirituous Liquors. — Ardent Spirits and their Peculiar 
Effects on Health. — Alcohol Table showing the Analysis 
of Spirituous Liquors and the quantity by measure of 
each which contains one ounce of Absolute Alcohol . 146 

Chapter IX. 

Special Recipes, Directions, and Appliances for the Sick 

Room. 

Farinaceous Articles. — Beef Tea. — Liebig's Extract of Meat. 
— Brand's Meat Jelly and Solid Beef Tea. — Valentine's 
Meat Juice. — Darby's Fluid Meat. — Van Abbott's Extract 
of Vegetables. — Malt Extracts. — Porridge. — Eggs. — 
Whey, Different Kinds of. — Chestnuts. — Nuts. — Animal 
Foods Re-cooked. — Bread. — Special Restorative. — Pan- 
creatised Foods. — Special Nutritive. — Milk, Cocoa and 
Egg. — Suet and Milk. — Invalid Soup. — Milk Gruel.— Milk 
with Rum, Brandy, or Whisky. — Condensed Milk. — 
Artificial Human Milk. — Koumiss. — Combinations of 
Alimentary Principles in Normal Proportions. — Port 
Wine Jelly. — Sponge Cake and Brandy. — Nutritive Ene- 
mata. — Nutritive Mixture. — Cerealin Tea. — Panada. — 
Fish, Rissole.*— Fresh Roe of Fish.— Substitute for Lob- 
ster. — Rabbit. — Poultices and Poulticing by Steam. — 
Bronchitis Kettles. — Warm Baths. — Inhalations. — Lights 
and Coals in the Sick Room. — Freezing Mixture. — The 

* Erratum.— P. 183, line 7, read "minced" for "mixed." 



xvi CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Heart -Bed. — Treatment of Obstinate Constipation and 
Obstruction. — Appointment Dial. — Litmus Paper.—- Cli- 
nical Thermometers 167 

Chapter X. 

Disinfection. 
Media by which the Catching Diseases are Communicated. — 
Means for Preventing Infection and Contagion. — Direc- 
tions for the Sick Boom and Attendants. — Precautions 
to be used by Doctors. — Proper Disinfection of Booms 
after Illness. — Methods of Using Chloride of Lime, 
Carbolic Acid, and Condy's Fluid. 193 



PART II. 

On the Interdependence and Prevention op Diseases and 
the Diminution op their Fatality. 



Chapter XI. 

The Duties of Medical Men. — The Interdependence of | 

Diseases showing the Importance of Periodical Examina- i 

tions 207 

i 

Chapter XII. 

Anemia 229 

Chapter XIII. 

Fatty Degeneration 235 

Chapter XIV. 
Abnormal Physiological States ..... 244 

Appendix. 

Cod-Liver Oil ; Pancreatine ; Pancreatised Foods, and Pan- 
creatic Emulsion.— On London Noise and London Sleep. 
—Bread Diet and Typhus Fever.— On Alcohol.— On Dust 
and Disease. — On the Importance and Dangers of Rest in 
Pulmonary Consumption.— On the Digestibility of Gela- 
tine-yielding Tissues.— Nu tritive Enemata.— Infantile 
Mortality. — On the Prevention of Disease and the Diminu- 
tion of its Fatality by Periodical Examinations. . . 253 



ON 

DIET, REGIMEN, 

Etc., Etc. 



PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 

The Interdependence of Diseases. — Narrow Specialities and Broad 
Departments in the Practice of Medicine. — Normal Diet. — 
Errors in Diet. — The Diet of Disease. — Food, Heat, and 
Motion. — Getting Fat and Getting Thin.— Alcohol, its Proper 
Place in Diet. — Regimen, the Regulation of Habits. — 
House-Drainage. — Importance of Sleep. — Proper Hours for 
Meals. — Disinfection. — Pseudo-Medical Dogmas, Allopathy, 
Hydropathy, Homoeopathy, Kinesipathy. — Rational Medicine. 

In the practice of Rational Medicine, there are many- 
subjects upon which the wise Physician is always glad 
to find that his patient has some knowledge as well 
as himself. Among these I know of none more im- 
portant than the Interdependence of Diseases and the 
Principles of Diet and Regimen. 

There are few medical questions which so test the 
depth and extent of a doctor's acquirements as the in- 
terdependence of diseases — by which I mean, the 
way in which one disease leads to another, substitutes 
another, aggravates, or relieves another; the way in 
which disease appearing at one part of the body depends 
upon the derangement of another part, perhaps distantly 
separated ; the way in which disease of one kind in an 
ancestor, leads to disease of several different kinds in the 

B 



*i 



2 PRELIMINARY REMARKS 

descendants ; the way in which one general morbid cause 
may produce different effects upon different persons, ac- 
cording to the conditions of health in which they happen 
to be at the time ; and numberless other similar pheno- 
mena. 

These are matters of the highest importance in the 
right management and treatment of disease; yet they are 
so little understood, that the pains taken by a conscien- 
tious doctor in their investigation are not appreciated by 
the majority of persons. Thus it is that patients so 
often fail to discriminate between the wisdom of the 
man who will not prescribe for a part of the body until 
he has learnt the condition of the whole, and the ad 
captandum ignorance of another man who will prescribe 
unhesitatingly for a disorder of the whole body without 
previously ascertaining whether it depends upon disease 
of a part. 

The chief objection to specialities in medical practice 
is the danger that the doctor who treats but one part of 
the body may lose sight of the interdependence of dis- 
eases. This must always be a grave objection to very 
narrow specialities, but it does not apply to the broad 
division of the practice of medicine into Departments — 
that is to say, such a reasonable application of the prin- 
ciples of the " division of labour " as shall enable each 
practitioner, not only to completely master the depart- 
ment of Medicine which he selects for special study, but 
to advance the general knowledge of the profession by 
his investigations and experience. 

For example, diseases of the ear are often depen- 
dent upon, or are connected with, diseases of other parts 
of the body ; and the doctor who confines his practice to 
diseases of the ear may be in danger of losing sight of 



ON DIET AND REGIMEN. 3 

the broad facts of medicine, and in attempting to cure 
the ear may damage the body ; but by extending his 
practice to all the organs of special sense, which might 
fairly form a department of Medicine, he would be obliged 
to take in a range of observation and thought which 
would enforce a knowledge of the interdependence of 
diseases. 

Again — Diseases of the heart and arteries are inti- 
mately connected with those of the lungs and throat ; 
diseases of the lungs with those of the heart, arteries, 
and windpipe ; diseases of the brain with those of the 
lungs, heart, and arteries ; and all of these are often 
inseparably connected, in the relation of cause or effect, 
with affections of the stomach, liver, pancreas, kidneys, 
intestinal glands, etc., etc. Therefore, for a doctor to 
limit his practice to diseases of the heart, to diseases of 
the throat, to diseases of the lungs, or to diseases of the 
windpipe, is to constitute a speciality so narrow that he is 
in danger of losing sight of the great principles of medi- 
cine. If, on the other hand, he selects for special study 
and practice such a broad department as Diseases of the 
Chest — that is to say, of all the respiratory and circula- 
tory organs, and the associated processes of digestion and 
assimilation — he will be obliged to take in a range of 
observation and thought necessitating a constant remem- 
brance of the interdependence of diseases, and he will be 
competent to deal with all classes of disease as well as 
those peculiar to his own department. I have instanced 
Diseases of the Chest because it is one of the most impor- 
tant " lines " of practice, and the one with which I am 
most intimately associated ; but the same remarks apply 
to Obstetrics, to Fevers, to the Diseases of Children 
and to other large divisions of medicine. Thus depart- 

B 2 



6 PRELIMINARY REMARKS 

force, a subject of the greatest interest to all, whether 
medical or not ; for, as we all take food and all desire to 
be strong, we are unavoidably fascinated by the inquiry 
what kind of food will give us the greatest amount of 
force. I have, therefore, introduced a short chapter " On 
Food, Seat, and Motion." (Chapter II.) 

The question of "getting fat or getting thin" whether 
in health or disease, is one inseparable from the sub- 
ject of food and force; for we have discovered that 
heat is but a mode of motion* and that those elements 
of food capable of liberating the largest amount of heat, 
may be utilised as accumulators of fat by economising 
the motion and heat of the body, and vice versa. In the 
Chapter " On Food, Heat, and Motion'* I have introduced 
a table, showing the composition of some of the most im- 
portant articles of food, and the amount of heat to be 
got out of equal quantities of each, and I have also stated 
the amount of mechanical force equivalent to a given 
quantity of heat. In order to elucidate the importance 
of fat, and the subject of getting fat or losing fat by 
alterations of diet, I have introduced some remarks on 
" Bantingism," on the means which promote the accumu- 
lation of fat, and on the importance of distinguishing 
between solid and liquid fat. (See Chapter VII.) 

From what I have already said, and from the articles 
referred to, it must be clear that nothing can take 
precedence of proper food among the means for the 
preservation of the public health ; and when health is 
lost, whether by unavoidable disease or by other causes, 
nothing can be more important than to understand the 
leading principles which should guide us in altering the 
food to meet the conditions of disease, and thus to con- 

* See Prof. TyndalFs Lectures : " Heat a Mode of Motion." 



ON DIET AND REGIMEN, 7 

vert diet into a powerful instrument for the restoration 
of health. This is a subject which could not be fully 
discussed in a small work like the present, but in 
Chapter VI., " On some principles of Diet in Disease" I 
have given some rules for the regulation of the food in 
various diseases, illustrated by Diet Tables for Consump- 
tion and for Diabetes. 

The subject of Alcohol, which has of late years 
occupied so much attention, both in the scientific and in 
the religious world, and which has been so grievously 
misrepresented and misunderstood, is now placed upon 
a more reasonable footing, some plain facts having been 
unquestionably established by the dispassionate investi- 
gations of practical and scientific men. In this country 
we are particularly indebted to Dr. Anstie and Dr. 
Parkes for their investigations on this subject. (See 
Appendix.) 

It is now quite certain, as I have long maintained, 
that alcohol is food— -that is to say, that it is consumed 
in the body by a process of oxidation similar to that 
which other kinds of food undergo, that during its com- 
bustion force is liberated and the demand for other kinds 
of food diminished. Alcohol, therefore, is able to save 
the combustion of the elements of tissue formation, by 
vicarious oxidation of itself. 

It is quite certain that alcohol is one of the most 
readily oxidisable substances capable of being introduced 
into the animal organism. In this consists its chief value 
and its chief danger ; for, on the one hand, it is able to 
replenish the lamp of life with so little tax upon the 
digestive functions, and with so little loss of time, that 
nothing can take its place when these are the desiderata of 
most urgent import. But, on the other hand, this ex- 



8 PRELIMINARY REMARKS 

traordinary facility for oxidation makes the presence of 
alcohol in the system a most dangerous impediment to 
the combustion of those less readily oxidisable matters, 
the full and regular combustion of which is absolutely 
essential to the continuance of normal health. 

It is quite certain that alcohol is not an indispensable 
article of daily food; a normal diet may be perfectly well 
constructed without it, and a healthy person, under fa- 
vourable circumstances, can live without it, just in fact 
as the lower animals do. But it is also quite certain 
that alcohol is a most blessed gift of Providence, when 
rightly understood and wisely used. It is the endow- 
ment of man with those higher attributes which princi- 
pally distinguish him from the brutes, that constitutes 
the element in his nature which has made it necessary 
to his welfare that Providence should give him this 
peculiar article of food, in addition to all those placed 
within the reach of the less intellectual animals. 

Thus it is a fact, that while man is brutalised by the 
abuse of alcohol, its proper me is one of his distinctions 
from the brutes. 

Alcohol may, perhaps, be best described as a Medi- 
cinal Food. It is essentially a poison,* although in its 
proper use it is an indispensable element in the life and happi- 
ness of highly civilised society. But it ought always to be 
regarded as a most treacherous friend. 

I have drawn up an " Alcohol Table " (see Chap. VIII.) 
— the result of many careful analyses of each article, so 

* A certain number of persons are abnormally susceptible to the 
poisonous action of alcohol as some are to the poisonous action 
of foods and medicines harmless or beneficial to the majority of 
persons. In these exceptional cases the safest course with regard 
to alcohol and other foods and medicines is to abstain altogether 
from them, and so avoid all possible risk. 



ON DIET AND BEGIMEN. 9 

as to present a fair average result — from which it can be 
seen at a glance what quantity by measure of any of 
the ordinary fermented liquors represents one ounce by 
weight of absolute alcohol. The table includes a state- 
ment of the proportion of carbon, and of some other 
matters, contained in fermented liquors, besides the 
alcohol. But it must always be remembered that differ- 
ent kinds of fermented liquors represent many other 
influences for good or evil, in a dietetic point of view, in 
addition to those possessed by the alcohol, all of which 
require consideration in selecting the particular beverage 
suitable to any given case. I have therefore devoted 
some pages to a consideration of the general and special 
properties of fermented liquors. (See Chap. VIII.) 

It will be observed that I have omitted alcohol from 
all the Table* of Normal Diet, leaving it to be added in 
any form and quantity that circumstances may render 
most advisable. (See Chap. III.) According to my own 
experience, based upon long and careful observation, an 
average-sized adult man, taking moderate exercise, may 
drink with advantage enough fermented liquors each 
twenty-four hours to represent from one to two ounces 
avoirdupois of absolute alcohol* provided it be always 
diluted to the extent of ten fluid ounces (half-a-pint 
imperial) of water, or some other unfermented liquor, to 
each ounce avoirdupois of absolute alcohol, and that it be 
taken when there is food in the stomach. (See Chap. III. 
— Meals.) 

Regimen, or the regulation of habits, could not be 
fully discussed without involving physiological and other 

* It will be seen by the resume of experiments (given in the 
Appendix) that their results confirm this opinion ; at which I had 
long before arrived by a different process. 



10 PRELIMINARY REMARKS 

details which would have far over-run the limits of this 
book. I have, therefore, contented myself with laying 
down, as concisely as possible, such rules as my own 
experience, added to that of others, has taught me are 
most necessary and most suitable to the generality of 
persons. They must, of course, be modified to suit pecu- 
liar constitutions, idiosyncrasies, and other circumstances, 
and to meet the various conditions of disease. (See 
Chap. VI., " On some Principles of Diet in Disease") 

In connection with the Rules for Maintaining 
Vigorous Health, I have introduced an article " On the 
Importance of Proper Hours for Meals;" also a number of 
valuable suggestions " On House Drainage" for which I 
am indebted to an experienced architect. (See Chap. I.) 
On the subject of exercise and training, in addition to 
the rules I have laid down, I advise everyone to read " A 
System of Physical Education," by Archibald Maclaren, 
of the Gymnasium, Oxford, an admirable treatise issued 
from the Clarendon Press ; also Dr. Roth's works " On 
the Prevention and Cure of Chronic Diseases by Movements" ; 
" On Scientific Physidal Training," 8fc.) 

As a necessary part of a work like the present, 
having for its object the preservation of health, I have 
added a chapter (Chap. X.) " On Disinfection" with rules 
for preventing the spread of the " Catching Diseases." 
It is one of the opprobria of the present day that these 
diseases are culpably propagated by the negligence of 
the heads of families to insist upon precautions now well 
known to be capable of preventing contagion and infec- 
tion. And in Chapter IX. will be found some "Special 
recipes, directions, and appliances for the sick-room" 

In concluding these preliminary remarks I must 
not lose the opportunity of expressing my opinion upon 



ON DIET AND REGIMEN. 11 

a matter regarding which there is great misapprehension, 
and, I regret to say, intentional misrepresentation. I 
refer to the subject of pseudo-medical-dogmas, such as are 
involved in the terms Allopathy, Hydropathy, Homoeo- 
pathy, Kinesipathy, &c., and in such expressions as " a 
stimulating system," " a depleting system," " similia simi- 
libus curantur," "contraria contraribus curantur," and 
the like. 

I disclaim them all, and I feel sure that in this state- 
ment I express the sentiment of the majority of think- 
ing medical men. It is utterly unworthy of the pro- 
fessor of a science and art so great as medicine, to " pin 
himself * to such narrow dogmas and rules of thought 
and practice as are indicated by one and all of these 
expressions. 

The practice of rational medicine — having for its 
subject not only that most complex and wonderful 
fabric the animal organism, but that organism endowed 
with all those attributes which place man but " a little 
lower than the angels "—demands that there shall not be 
anything excluded from its service, and that every science 
and every art shall combine, at its bidding, to assuage 
the suffering and to save the life of Nature's highest 
earthly creature. 

Every honest and intelligent practitioner of rational 
medicine, knows that there are remedies of unquestion- 
able potency, the action of which could never have been 
discovered by any such dogmas as " contraria contraribus 
curantur " or " similia similibus curantur." On the other 
hand, he knows that there are remedies the action of 
which may appear to be explained by one or other of 
these principles, but that the more intimately we become 
acquainted with the occult properties of medicines and 



12 PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 

the occult physiology of diseases, the more plainly do we 
see that these apparent explanations of the modus operandi 
of remedies are absurdly superficial and incorrect. He 
will not, then, refuse to benefit his patient by the use of 
the one remedy because he cannot explain its action, or 
of the other because it appears to act by similarity, or of 
a third because he thinks it acts by contrariety. Again, 
he knows that the same disease may assume such dif- 
ferent phases, in different constitutions, at different times, 
and in different places, that in one case it may require 
" stimulation," in another " depletion," that at one period 
of the same case " water treatment " may be advisable, 
at another "gymnastic," at another "mechanical," at 
another " climatic." And he claims these, and all other 
means beneficently placed within our reach which can 
protect health or benefit the sick, as the legitimate 
weapons in the armoury of rational medicine. 

Every theory, every system, every dogma, must 
give place, at last, before the fact, once unquestionably 
proved, that such or such a remedy is best for such or 
such an occasion. 

Therefore, in my opinion, all men who "pin their 
faith " on narrow dogmas stamp themselves thereby as 
unfit for the practice of rational medicine. 



PART I. 

Chapter I. 

RULES FOR PROMOTING AND MAINTAINING 
VIGOROUS HEALTH IN ADULTS LIVING IN 
THE CLIMATE OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. 

Ventilation and Heating. — Gas. — House-drainage. — Clothing and 
Protection from Cold. — Sleep. — Exercise.— Posture. — Bathing. 
— Regulation of the Bowels. — Rest and Change. — Smoking. 
— Meals. — Proper Hours for Meals. — Afternoon Tea. 

*** These Rules will require to be modified by the medical man to 
suit special cases. 



VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

No sitting- or sleeping room should be left long 
without a fire, and every room in which persons live, 
either by day or by night, should have some opening by 
which it communicates directly with the outer air ; but 
this should be so arranged that no draught can fall upon 
the persons in the room. 

If several rooms are occupied by turns during the 
twenty-four hours, the temperature of any one should 
not differ greatly from that of the rest. 

No draught should blow upon a bed, and during 
sleep the whole body should have one covering at least 
of woollen material ; for, while it is very important to 
keep the air of sleeping-rooms fresh, it must be remem- 



14 VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

bered that the body is more susceptible to chills during 
sleep than waking, and that changes in the temperature 
of the outer air are especially apt to occur during the 
night, and are therefore in danger of producing chills 
before they are observed. (See Sleep.) 

All arrangements for ventilation must be based upon 
the following facts : — 

The rate of respiration in an average sized adult man 
is about 16 times per minute, and each such respiration 
vitiates about 1 cubic foot of normal atmospheric air ; so 
that each adult man vitiates 960 cubic feet of air per 
hour, and consequently will require a supply of fresh air 
at that rate ; or in round numbers 1,000 cubic feet per 
hour. 

This supply of fresh air can be provided by observ- 
ing the following conditions :— 

A current of air travelling at the rate of 36 linear 
inches per second is not perceptible as a draught, and at 
that rate of movement 1£ cubic feet per minute or 75 
per hour will be admitted by an aperture of 1 square 
inch sectional area, communicating directly with the 
outer air. 

If, therefore, an apartment is provided with an 
aperture having a ratio of 1 square inch sectional area 
to each 75 feet of cubic capacity, the whole air of the 
apartment will be changed once per hour. 

Supposing, then, that the cubic capacity of an apart- 
ment is in the proportion of 1,000 feet to each person 
in it, the requisite supply of fresh air may be obtained, 
without draught, through an aperture of from 13 to 14 
square inches sectional area to each 1,000 feet of cubic 
capacity. 

But if the cubic capacity of the apartment is only 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 15 

in the proportion of 500 feet for each person in it, the 
air must be changed twice per hour in order to supply 
the requisite 1,000 cubic feet of fresh air for each person. 

When gas is burnt in an apartment the following facts 
must be borne in mind, in addition to the foregoing, 
for the purposes of ventilation : — 

One cubic foot of ordinary London coal gas produces, 
in burning, two- thirds of a cubic foot of carbonic acid, 
about the amount produced per hour by the respiration 
of one adult man, — and as an ordinary fish-tail gas- 
burner consumes about 3 cubic feet of gas per hour, it 
produces in that time as much carbonic acid as the respi- 
ration of three adults. In addition to this there are 
various highly injurious emanations from the burning 
gas. Therefore gas not only consumes the air, but 
poisons it as well ! 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 

The following valuable practical suggestions from an ex* 
perienced architect (G. E. Pritchett, F.S.A., &c, &c), 
1 give in his own words, as conveyed in a letter to me. 

Architects have opportunities where other persons 
have not of observing the action of drains; the evil 
consequences of their misconstruction ; of their too fre- 
quent proximity to wells of drinking water through 
additions and alterations of buildings, or otherwise ; of 
soakage from cesspools; of evaporation of water from 
so-called "traps," etc. The opportunities referred to 
must therefore be my apology for venturing to address 
you on this subject, and you are quite at liberty to make 



16 HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 

use of the hints in this paper if they are likely to be of 
any service to the community. 

I will commence, then, my observations by the some- 
what startling and unpleasant enquiry which should 
be put to every householder, " Where are your drains 
and cesspools situated ? " This is a question very closely 
linked with the preservation of life and health as you 
are aware; yet, on this enquiry being made, many 
tenants at once admit, that they do not know, that they 
have no idea ; that they have been in the house many 
years and are only aware, perhaps, of one drain from 
the scullery-sink which drips Jo a ditch or pond, or 

house, containing a large dining and drawing room, that 
there is at times a faint smell in these rooms, and the 
same unaccountable smell when a few friends visit them 
and when the shutters and curtains are drawn and good 
fires kept up; that the ladies are constantly troubled 
with headache, nausea, and lassitude ; that the children 
are feverish at times, and death among them is not un- 
known ! Could these householders only see the old brick 
barrel-drain and the foetid cesspool, with its outlet cut 
off perhaps, inclosed in this wing, and the rats and 
insects working their holes in it a very little distance 
below the unventilated floors, they would get out of 
the house as quickly as their legs could carry them. 
If premises which have been added to from time 

* 

to time are pulled down, and especially where a faint 
smell has been noticed, you may be greatly astonished 
to find a barrel-drain crossing the house, cut through or 
broken in before reaching the cesspool or outlet, and a 
mass of decomposing matter extending a considerable 
distance under the floors of the rooms, in consequence 



r 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 17 

of the drain being stopped. This occurred without the 
knowledge of an unfortunate householder, who at times 
perceived a faint smell, but having got used to it disre- 
garded it : having, however, lost a valuable life in the 
death of the mother of his young family, and having 
carried some of his children to he7grave, he determine! 
to pull down the rooms and build more airy ones, little 
thinking what he should discover. It was in this case 
the want of quality in the air more than of quantity that 
caused his losses. 

My object in mentioning such cases is to rouse 
every householder to trace his drains to their outlets; 
let him see that they are clear, and that they have no 
holes in them, and that they are laid to a good fall. 

If premises are your own do not mind spending a 
few pounds. If necessary take out the barrel-drains 
and put in socket-pipes, truly and well laid on concrete, 
covered with' concrete and jointed in cement; this will 
keep out rats and vermin and worms, and prevent noxious 
gases collecting under your floors. 

If your floors are not ventilated, see if this cannot be 
done. 

If you are about to purchase or hire a nice-looking 
newly-built house, do not for a moment suppose or take 
for granted that the drains are " all right," for in many 
new houses the drainage is only run out a little way 
from the walls and not led anywhere, but left for some- 
one to complete after his family has been struck down, 
and who, upon digging up his flower-beds and destroying 
the growth of his shrubs and everything else in pursuit 
of the drains, finds that they are choked, and full of 
worms and black stuff, and go nowhere. 

Whether you occupy an old or a new house and 

c 



18 HOUSE-DRAIN AGE. 

premises, caution is equally necessary. Look at all your 
surface-gratings — whether in your paths, your stable-yard, 
your conservatories, porches, lobbies, or wherever they 
may be — with great suspicion, especially in dry weather. 
People will sometimes say to themselves when walking 
about premises, " Wherever does that smell come from ? " 
little thinking that the water has evaporated from the 
traps. These surface drains should not be connected 
with sewer drains at all, but should have a separate 
service of pipes. 

See where the rain-water descending pipes run to. 
Look well at the joints of these vertical pipes. If you 
notice discoloration of the paint at the joints, you may 
know at once that they are connected with some cesspool 
or sewer-piping. E.g., a gentleman had low fever among 
his children, but could not assign any particular cause 
for it ; one of the rain-water pipes, however, ran up the 
walls of his house, within a couple of feet of the nursery 
windows ; this pipe was painted stone colour, and the paint 
at and above the unstopped joints in this pipe was turned 
to lead colour. The question as to where the water from 
that pipe went to was put to him, and answered by 
" Nobody knows." On examining, it was found (as might 
have been conjectured) to go into an hermetically sealed 
cesspool. Every time rain fell and water went into this 
cesspool, the sewer gas found its way readily through 
the joints of this pipe, and as the nursery windows 
were kept open as much as possible after the rooms 
were warmed by the young life in them, there is very 
little doubt about the source or origin of the enteric 
fever. 

As rain-water is valuable, have an underground tank 
to receive it, and an overflow pipe to it, separate from 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 19 

any sewer drain. Let the rain water pass through a 
small filter chamber, filled with shingle and charcoal, 
before entering the tank : this will take out flakes of 
soot and particles of leaves and vegetable matter ; the 
water will then keep better. 

If you wish to know what size to make such a 
tank, ascertain how many square yards of ground your 
roofs cover. About one hundred and twenty-six gal- 
lons of rain-water fall on an average every year upon a 
square yard of ground : a cubic foot of water is equal to 
about 6£ gallons ; you can therefore easily judge what 
size to make your tank. 

Touching upon soil pipes and cesspools in private 
houses where there are no public drains, I would say 
that too much care cannot be taken to provide for circu- 
lation of air in all pipes leading to and from cesspools. 
Connect these pipes with a 4-inch tube and carry it up 
higher than your chimneys on some stout lofty tree, or 
on some building at a short distance from the house, 
if possible, and towards the south of the house — as such 
air generally works towards the sun and away from the 
house, if let out south of it. 

For your water-closets you will find a good D trap 
about the best check to any pressure of sewer-gas, as it 
will not be forced through a D trap so easily as through 
some of the modern shallow traps and syphons ; but if 
you happen to have valve-closets, or light traps, a lead 
pipe can in most cases be put into the leaden bend and 
carried above the roof; then you will have an effectual 
safeguard. JE. g. y it will be evident to all that when water 
goes down a soil-pipe a certain quantity of air must be 
displaced ; this air will rush out into the closet unless 
ample provision is made for its escape elsewhere ; and as 

c 2 



20 HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 

the act of a person pulling up a closet-handle is first, to 
stoop, which causes him to emit his breath, and then to 
raise himself, which causes him to inspire, it will be 
readily noticed that he is sure to take in his breath at 
the moment when the water runs down the soil-pipe and 
the pent-up sewer-gas rushes out close to his lungs. 
Keep the closet seat-flap down, cut holes in the flap to 
admit of the handle being raised when the flap is closed; 
it will, however, be far better to ventilate your soil-pipes 
and drains. Water-closets should be flushed with a large 
pail-full of water now and then, because the small quan- 
tity of water coming in through the supply-pipe into the 
pan is insufficient for this purpose, especially when the 
handle is held up a very short time. Jenning's and 
Underhay's pans are better supplied with water than 
many, but even with these arrangements no sufficient 
flush takes place to well push on the excreta. When 
these accumulate, poisonous matters are formed and 
danger springs up, but there is not the same danger 
from fresh sewage. Do not allow slops to be emptied 
down your water-closets, because some may be spilt 
and get between the seat and the pan, and gradually 
saturate the woodwork beneath, causing decay and 
unwholesome faint smells. Have a pad of dry hair- 
felt, sewn in an oilskin cover, placed between the 
top of the pan and the wooden seat, if there is any 
vacant space there ; this will stop draught and the splash 
referred to. 

Lime-white with hot lime the floor and inside of the 
seat-enclosure annually; this can be readily done by 
taking off the top or seat. 

The effectual ventilation of water-closets, situated as 
they often are, is by no means an easy matter. If you 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 21 

open the window, the warm house will quickly receive 
the smell you intended to go outside, and you will soon 
perceive that the air will not obey your commands. 
Have a space (however small) between the inner and 
outer doors of the water-closet ; if this space is too con- 
fined for a window, get external air into it by tubes ; 
this stratum of air will materially assist you, because it 
tends to balance and check the progress of the air in the 
water-closet beyond ; but the better method is to lead a 
tube from the ceiling of the water-closet into the nearest 
chimney-flue where there is smoke ascending, or where 
there is sufficient warmth to make it act as you wish ; 
your water-closet will then soon be cleared of all dis- 
agreeables. A valve, however, should be balanced in this 
tube to prevent any sudden down draught. 

Some provision should be made for disposing of slops 
entirely away from the water-closet. People are little 
aware what odd things are put down water-closets. 
If plumbers told people the queer things they find in 
water-closet pipes, they would not be believed. Water- 
closets should be strictly guarded, and domestic servants 
cautioned against misusing them. The same oversight 
should be given to traps in sinks and elsewhere ; these 
traps are often lifted off and not put on again, resulting 
in much damage to the health of the servants and all the 
inmates of the house. Let all pipes from sinks, butler's 
pantries, baths, etc., discharge themselves free to the air 
before entering sewer drains : this plan can generally be 
carried out without difficulty or unsightliness. 

Have all junctions of water-closet pipes with the 
drains examined now and then, as the stopping often 
shrinks and the lead decays, especially if the stopping is 
made of Portland cement. The seating or fixing of the 



i 



22 HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 

pan on to the soil-pipe should also be examined periodi- 
cally, so as to stop any leakage of sewer-gas. 

All cisterns should be cleaned out once a year, and 
any deposit removed. If you have a u waste-pipe " in 
your cistern branched into the soil-pipe, which is too 
frequently the case, look well to it, for unless your drains 
are sufficiently ventilated, the sewer-gas will be forced 
through the waste-pipe and may be absorbed by the 
water in your cistern. If you have a painted lid to your 
cistern, see if any discoloration has taken place ; if you 
find such to be the case, you may be sure that sewer-gas 
has escaped into your cistern. 

If yl have £*. from yo„ ^.n* «d «1- 
lars, be particularly careful to see that the traps are 
efficient and kept well supplied with water ; the great 
importance of having this seen to is self-evident. Where 
do you suppose the supply of air to your sitting-rooms is 
frequently drawn from? If they happen to be over 
rooms or cellars with plastered ceilings, air will percolate 
from these into your sitting-rooms. You can prove this 
by blowing a cloud of tobacco-smoke below ; or you may 
find it out accidentally through something being spilt, 
such as paraffin oil for instance. Have your cellars fre- 
quently lime-whited and the floors cleaned. 

I will only slightly touch upon wells and drinking- 
water because it is impossible to exhaust such an impor- 
tant and interesting subject in a letter ; but I do wish to 
observe, that every householder should know exactly 
where his well is situated, if he has one. 

People are little aware how soon drinking-water is 
spoilt by a small leakage of surface-water, or drain- water 
into it ; e. g., an additional drain is thought desirable, an 
ordinary bricklayer is sent for, who puts it in for you, 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 23 

not knowing that your well is in close proximity to it, or 
if he knows its situation you are not informed of it ; 
the consequence may be and often is most disastrous. 
Cases such as this are common through persons hiring 
houses (on a lease, for instance), and who like to see the 
premises dry quickly after rain : they do not know and 
do not trouble themselves to ascertain where their wells 
are, but have extra drains put in without thought ; their 
drinking-water is spoilt; the sequel is too certain and 
the evil often only found out when too late. 

To effectually deal with the sewage of large towns 
so as to remove and actually to convey away noxious 
matters from our very midst without the use of the pre- 
sent water system is a great difficulty, and the prospect 
of any radical change of the present system in London, 
for instance, seems an impossibility, on account of the 
gigantic network of sewers already provided and in use. 

Nevertheless, I will proceed to mention a few grave 
objections with the hope of an amelioration of some of 
them, by better attention to details in respect to the more 
efficient ventilation of sewers and the prevention of the 
ingress of evil-smelling, if not of poisonous, gases into our 
houses. Theworstfo^ofsewer^isgenSyformed 
and found in ifce side drains, or baches, which are led 
up to our houses, and the contents of these are all but 
stagnant when the main sewers are filling. Remove, 
therefore, where possible, from the interior of your houses, 
all inlets into the drains leading to the sewers. But it 
may be said that in the majority of cases this cannot be 
done without destroying the drainage altogether; the 
answer is, such cases are, comparatively speaking, few. 
Take drains from cellars, for instance ; how seldom they 



24 HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 

are of real service compared with the great danger of 
their presence. Cellars can be cleaned down without 
necessitating a trap and drain into the sewer. Deal with 
the cleansing of a cellar-floor the same as is done with a 
boarded floor, by wiping up the water and drying the 
floor as well as may be. 

Asphalte is very good for cellar-floors, and very 
cleanly. Nasty traps in your cellars and basement, con- 
taining in themselves a quantity of stagnant dirty water 
commLcating wifc the sewerf ti>e gTfrom which can 
^ U M into you, ho™., „ £L f on. of evil 
To cure this source of disease, simply dispense with the 
traps and drains and wipe your floors clean. By some 
thought and contrivance it will be found that very many 
connections with the sewers can be avoided. 

Waste pipes, again, in cisterns connected with the 
soil-pipe and sewer, should be dispensed with, and means 
to prevent occasional overflows of water when the badly 
fitting common ball-taps stick, should be provided for in 
another direction. Waste-pipes in cisterns connected 
with sewer-drains are out-spoken examples of the stu- 
pidity which, with an utter disregard to sanitary laws, 
persists in such suicidal arrangements. Surely there is 
great inconsistency in raising alarms about the impurity 
of London water, whilst at the same time it is not un- 
frequently contaminated with a poison through the 
waste-pipes in cisterns which no filter can remove. 
Where connection with the sewers is actually necessary 
(as in water-closets), ventilate the soil-pipe by a vertical 
continuation of it to such a height as circumstances will 
permit 

Water-closets should not be in the midst of * our 
houses at all but projected outwards with a lobby or 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 25 

anteroom, as before alluded to. But it is quite surprising 
how few junctions with the sewer-drains in houses are 
absolutely necessary. Every internal junction dispensed 
with is a step in the right direction ; get all connections, 
where possible, outside your houses, because sewer-gas 
forced out into the open air is soon robbed of its noxious 
powers, but its escape into the interior of your house is 
as bad as a murderer entering it. A very sly insidious 
felon is sewer-gas ! 

The dry-earth system is most excellent and effec- 
tive, but the cost of bringing dry earth round and of 
removing that used, in populous places would be heavy, 
and the intrusion and inconvenience apparently great ; 
time however will show whether this system cannot be 
developed without such drawbacks. Moule's dry-earth 
system is most in use. Goux's absorbent closet system 
is equally effective, having been tried and adopted for 
the North Camp at Aldershot, and even in so large a 
town as Halifax. 

Dry-earth commodes, also, for sick chambers are very 
useful 

As compared with the water-closet system, the earth- 
closet has several advantages. It is cheaper in its 
original cost, it requires less repair, it is not injured by 
frost, it is not liable to damage through hard substances 
being thrown into it, it greatly diminishes the quantity 
of water required by each household. My own exper- 
rience is in favour of the earth system, if carried out 
under proper authorities. It is deserving of every con- 
sideration, but its merits at present are not sufficiently 
understood by the public to interfere much with the 
poisoned water system. Formidable sums of money are 
being spent in draining towns so as to lay on setcer-gas by 



26 CLOTHING. 

means of pipes to our very bedroom doors. Is this right ? 
Will not the water system be superseded ? 

Cleanliness, after all, is the great natural disinfec- 
tant ; look well, therefore, to all sources of water supply, 
impure water-butts, sinks, and particularly dustbins: 
remove frequently all possible sources of nuisance and 
accumulations of impurities ; also, last but not least, get 
rid of any damp mouldy paperhangings and the festering 

on your premises. 

There is an important lesson to be learnt by all of 
us. Every householder should make himself acquainted 
with so much of sanitary science as will enable him to 
preserve the health of his family. To secure health, 
sanitary laws must be understood and carried out. A 
family cut down by preventible sickness cannot be con- 
sidered a fortunate one ; and it is just as necessary to. 
learn something of sanitary laws to provide against this, 
as it is to provide the common necessaries of life. 



CLOTHING. 

In winter, the body and limbs, from the root of 
the neck to the toes and elbows, and in many cases to 
the wrists, should be covered, next the skin, with some 
woollen material, such as lamb's wool or flannel. 

In summer, the material may be lighter, as merino, 
and need not cover the limbs. 

The same woollen dress should not be worn both 
night and day, but should be changed for a woollen 



CLOTHING. 27 

sleeping vest of the same material as that worn during 
the day. (See Sleep.) 

Having provided that the skin is so covered that 
it is protected against sudden changes of temperature, 
all other clothing should be limited to that which is 
sufficient to preserve a comfortable feeling of warmth 
under the different changes of the season and of the 
weather. 

It is most important to keep the arms warm, espe- 
cially in those with delicate lungs. Cold arms act as 
refrigerators to the blood immediately before it is dis- 
charged by the large veins into the heart and lungs. 

O^er-clothing, * such H keeps <*e body pexfpiring 
while at rest, or produces perspiration under very slight 
exertion, should be avoided, especially over-clofching 
of any one part of the body, by which it is kept hotter 
than the other parts. 

A most valuable addition to other clothing in very 
cold weather is a wash-leather vest with sleeves, to be 
worn over the woollen vest and under the cotton or 
linen shirt. 

It is of the greatest importance to keep the feet dry, 
and as warm as the rest of the body. If the weather 
is damp, this can only be done by wearing goloshes 
when out of doors. (See Bathing.) 

A careful analysis made by me of a large number 
of cases of Winter Cough, Catarrh, Bronchitis, Em- 
physema, and Asthma, showed that fresh colds were the 
only causes which brought on or aggravated the cough 
in 72 per cent, of the cases, and the most frequent and 
potent causes of these fresh colds, as stated by the 
patients themselves, were : — 



28 CLOTHING. 

1. Sudden changes of temperature in 21 per cent. 

2. Fogs and damp in 19 per cent. 

3. Draughts of cold air in 16 per cent. 

4. Cold winds in 10 per cent. 

5. Getting wet in 14 per cent. 

6. Wet feet in 17 per cent. 

And these causes of fresh colds were found to be the 
potent provokers of short breathing. This important list 
is no less striking for the powers for evil which it is 
shown to possess, than for the remarkable simplicity 
of the evil powers themselves. 

If, then, these unfortunate sufferers from Winter 
Cough could have been protected from sudden changes 
of temperature, fogs, mists, cold winds, draughts, wet 
feet, and wet coats and dresses, 72 per cent, would have 
kept free from their coughs. It would be strange if 
we could not find means of protection against such com- 
mon-place influences. In truth there is no deficiency of 
means of protection against them, and it is because of 
the very common-place character of these means of pro- 
tection, and of the influences themselves, that both are 
so much neglected and under-valued. 

But as 72 per cent, of the cases of Winter Cough 
which I analysed might probably have been prevented 
by attention to these common-place things ; let us give 
a few minutes to their consideration. 

Sudden changes of temperature. This is the most dif- 
ficult to avoid of any on the list. The occupations and 
amusements of all classes involve such changes, and we 
cannot stop these occupations and amusements, even 
were it desirable to do so. The workshop, the counting- 
house, the committee-room, the opera-house, the ball- 
room, must be warm when the outer air is cold, and 



CLOTHING. 29 

changes from one to the other cannot be avoided. But 
very much can be done to prevent the body from feeling 
these changes. The first and most important thing is 
the complete envelopment of the body and limbs in wool 
next the skin, thus interposing a bad conductor of heat 
between the surface of the body and the outer air. It 
is surprising that, even at the present day, this simple 
and common sense protection is neglected by so large a 
number of persons both of the educated and of the un- 
educated classes. It is not sufficient for the purpose in 
view that a Utile body-vest should be worn, just big 
enough to cover the thorax and abdomen, leaving the 
extremities unprotected. It should be insisted on by 
medical men that the arms and legs require to be pro- 
tected from sudden transitions of temperature as well as 
the trunk. (See p; 27.) 

In fashionable life the greatest practical difficulty 
we have to encounter is the question of exposing the 
necks and shoulders of ladies in evening dress. It is 
useless to order body-clothing of wool to the throat, and 
to expect that ladies will give up a fashion which has 
been followed and thought charming in all countries and 
all ages. The difficulty is, however, to be got over pretty 
well Every lady in evening dress should carry with 
her, as invariably as she does her pocket handker- 
chief, a Shetland shawl, or a mantilla of wool or fur, of 
a size and shape to cover all those parts not protected by 
woollen underclothing, and it should only be removed 
while actually within warm rooms, and should be 
kept at hand to be replaced on passing through pas- 
sages, or if the rooms become cold, or if sitting in 
draughts. 

The main source of protection, then, against sud- 



30 CLOTHING. 

den changes of temperature to the surface of the body, 
is to be found in a complete covering of wool next the 
skin. But besides this, much greater attention than is 
common should be paid to putting on and taking off 
complete and efficient over-clothing when going from 
hot to cold and from cold to hot temperatures. This is 
particularly neglected by the working classes, and by 
girls and boys at school. 

What I have said with regard to sudden changes 
of temperature will apply equally to two other causes of 
fresh colds on our list, viz., draughts of cold air and cold 
winds. Both are to be deprived of their sting by proper 
clothing of the skin and mucous orifices. 

Getting wet, and wet feet, occupy a very serious 
place in our list, and there is no doubt that damp and 
cold, applied to the general surface, is a most efficient 
means of producing chill and vital depression, with 
congestion of the internal organs. 

Even if all the clothes on the body are wet, no harm 
will come as long as they are kept warm; and this 
suggests the very great value, to all persons liable to ex- 
posure to wet, of light waterproof over-alls. They may 
either be put on to keep the underclothing dry, or, if the 
underclothing has become wet, either by weather or by 
perspiration, they may be put on to prevent too rapid 
evaporation, and consequent reduction of temperature, 
especially when the person is about to remain still after 
getting warm with exercise. In this variable climate, 
therefore, school girls, governesses, shop and factory 
girls, and all women whose occupations call upon them 
to brave the weather, ought to carry with them complete 
waterproof mantles, made as light as possible, but ex- 
tending from the neck to the ankles, which can be put 



CLOTHING. 31 

on or not as required ; and boys and men similarly ex- 
posed should carry waterproof over-alls. 

But if wet and cold to the surface of the body is a 
fruitful source of catarrh, "wet feet " — which means wet 
and cold feet — is a still more prolific source. There is 
no external influence which so surely produces conges- 
tion of the naso-pulmonary mucous membrane as wet 
and cold to the soles of the feet. There is nothing so 
universally neglected, and yet there is nothing more 
easy to avoid. Warm socks, horsehair soles, goloshes, 
provide efficient protection against wet and cold feet. 
It does not seem to be half understood that, although 
a shoe or a boot may not be wet through, if the sole 
is damp it will, by conduction and evaporation, most 
effectually carry away the heat from the sole of the foot, 
and, therefore, it ought never to be worn after exercise 
is over. 

We have still one item left on our list — viz., Fogs 
and Damp air, which were the things most inclined to 
make the breath short in 24 per cent, of the cases, and 
the most potent causes of fresh colds in 19 per cent. I 
have particularly remarked, that although the smoke 
and other irritating matters constituting fog are un- 
questionably very injurious, it is the moisture and cold 
of the fog which are the qualities most potent for mis- 
chief to the naso-pulmonary tract. There is but one 
means of depriving a fog or mist of its injurious pro- 
perties, and that is a respirator ; and the same may be 
said of the changes of temperature of which I spoke 
just now ; a respirator is the only means of protecting 
the respiratory passages from the effects of transitions 
of temperature in the respired air. 

Although it is quite proper to cover the neck and 



32 SLEEP. 

throat lightly, I am decidedly of opinion that hot 
wrappers round the neck are objectionable ; they pro- 
duce congestion of the nasal and faucial mucous mem- 
brane and thus dispose to the very complaints they are 
supposed to prevent. (See the Author's "Lectures on 
Winter Cough, Catarrh, Bronchitis, Emphysema, Asthma," 
delivered at the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the 
Chest ; 3rd edit. Churchill) 

I am glad to find the use of respirators, which I have 
so long advocated, well demonstrated in one of Pro- 
fessor TyndaU's beautiful lectures. (See Appendix.) 



SLEEP. 

During ordinary health, the hours spent in actual sleep 
should not exceed eight out of the twenty-four ; and if 
the sleep is sound, continuous and refreshing, six will 
be sufficient for some persons. (See Best and Change.) 

It is of great importance, especially with the young 
and the weak, to maintain the due proportion between 
the number of waking and sleeping hours. If, therefore, 
it is necessary, as in going to places of amusement, to sit 
up unusually late, the waking hours, thus spent, should 
be compensated by a similar number of sleeping hours, 
taken in the preceding day; so that over-fatigue may be 
prevented. For example, if the usual hour for rising is 
8 and for bed 11, and it is proposed to stay up to 3, the 
hour for rising should be changed to 12; or 4 hours' 
rest should be taken at some other time during the day. 

During sleep, it is equally important to keep the 
body pleasantly warm, and to avoid keeping it over- 



EXERCISE. 33 

heated; and, as serious changes in the weather may 
happen in the night, and the lowest temperature in the 
twenty-four hours naturally occurs between 2 o'clock 
and 6 o'clock a.m., the ventilation and clothing must be 
prepared for these contingencies. Some extra article of 
clothing should be at hand to be put on the bed if ne- 
cessary. (See Ventilation and Clothing.) 

Every precaution should be taken to secure dark and 
quiet sleeping-rooms. (See Appendix, " London Noise 
and London Sleep.") 

Those who wish to work at night after a long, busy 
day, should take a short sleep, followed by a cup of tea, 
before beginning the night's work; where this is im- 
possible after dinner, it should be taken before dinner. 

If sleep is taken after meals, it should be imme- 
diately after, and ought not to exceed an hour in dura- 
tion ; it should be taken sitting back in an easy chair — 
not lying down — with the head supported behind; 
not sitting with the chin resting on the breast ; the feet 
should be kept warm, and the dress loose round the 
neck and waist. 



EXERCISE. 



During ordinary health, some part of every day ought 
to be spent out of doors; and in ill-health it is of 
great importance not to discontinue the observance of 
this rule without good reason ; for, although in certain 
states of disease it may be very important to remain in-doors, 
it must not be forgotten that proper clothing, goloshes, 
respirators, and umbrellas, may make it not only safe 
but advantageous to go out of doors for exercise, when, 

D 



34 EXERCISE. 

without them, it would be very injurious. (See Posture, 
and p. 187 of the Author's work " On Winter Cough" 
3rd edit.) 

Out-of-door exercise should be as active as the 
strength will allow, and should always be continued up 
to the point of slight — but not over — fatigue. This will 
be the best measure of the proper amount for both the 
weak and the strong. 

Unless the air is pure, and the person strong, exercise 
before breakfast is more likely to do harm than good ; 
a tumbler of milk and a biscuit, however, will be 
a sufficient meal to take before the walk or ride — a 
more substantial breakfast being taken afterwards. 
(See Meals.) 

Especial care is needed not to expose the body to 
chills when heated by exercise (See Clothing) ; and cold 
drinks should not be taken at that time, unless the 
exercise is about to be continued immediately ; and 
even then the quantity of cold drink taken at once 
should be very small. (See Meals.) 

In his work " On Physical Education? already referred 
to, Mr. Maclaren makes the following excellent re- 
marks: 

" Such in brief is Exercise, such the ends which it 
accomplishes, and such the manner of their accomplish- 
ment ; viz., the destruction of the tissues, the hastening of 
the decay and death of every part coming within its in- 
fluence ; but also the speedy removal of all waste, the 
hastening forward of fresh material for its replacement ; 
and in doing this it attains three distinct but co-relative 
results. 

•' 1. It increases the size and power of the voluntary 
muscles employed. 



EXERCISE. 35 

" 2. It increases the functional capacity of the involun- 
tary muscles employed. 

" 3. It promotes the health and strength of the whole 
body, by increasing respiration and quickening circula- 
tion." 

"It is health rather than strength that is the great 
requirement of modern men at modern occupations ; it is 
not the power to travel great distances, carry great bur- 
dens, lift great weights, or overcome great material ob- 
structions ; it is simply that condition of body and that 
amount of vital capacity, which will enable each man, 
in his place, to pursue his calling and work on in his 
working life with the greatest amount of comfort to 
himself and usefulness to his fellow men. .... Let it 
not be inferred from this that I consider health and 
strength as in any manner opposed to each other ; on 
the contrary, they are most intimately allied, and are, 
usually, by the same means and by the same manner 
obtained ; very closely are they connected, but they are 
not the same, and a man may possess either without the 

other. A most important principle in Exercise, 

and one which should ever be borne in mind, is that it 
should be regulated by individual fitness ; for the exer- 
cise that scarcely amounts to exertion in one person will 
be injurious and dangerous to another; and not only is 

but the same individual may have parts of his body 
possessing special power or presenting special weakness. 
A man may have limbs capable of transporting him at 
the rate of four miles an hour throughout the day, and 
for many days in succession, but with heart or lungs all 
unequal to the effort; or he may have an organisation 
so frail and a temperament so susceptible to stimulation 

d 2 



36 POSTURE. 

or excitement, that the one is an abiding danger to the 
other." (See the author's work " On the Mont Dare 
Cure" &a, 1st ed., p. 2.) 

When there is no heart or lung disease to interfere, 
there is no form of gymnastic exercise, so generally effi- 
cient as " skipping backwards." 



POSTURE. 



It is of great importance to acquire a habit of draw- 
ing the breath deeply and slowly, so as to expand the 
lungs freely during ordinary breathing. This requires 
that the head and shoulders be thrown well back in 
walking, sitting, and standing, and that no clothing be 
worn tight round the ribs. Those engaged in sedentary 
or stooping occupations should especially attend to this 
advice. Great care should be taken to avoid the pres- 
sure of dress more upon one part of the body than upon 
another. For this reason " padding " is very objectionable. 
(See Appendix on the " Importance and Dangers of Rest 
in Consumption. ") 

All persons whose pursuits require the long continu- 
ance or frequent assumption of any particular position 
or movement of the body or limbs, should take every 
opportunity of changing it for an opposite position or 
movement. * 

Those whose occupation obliges them to maintain the 
erect posture for a number of hours each day, should 
take every opportunity of lying flat down, even if only 
for a few minutes at a time. They should also bear in 
mind that standing will not take the place of walking 
exercise. (See Rest and Change ; Sleep ; and Exercise.) 



BATHING. 37 



BATHING. 

Warm baths, Turkish baths, vapour baths, shower 
baths, cold plunges, and sea baths should only be used 
under special medical orders. (See the author's work 
" On the Mont Lore Cure, 1 ' 1st ed.) 

During ordinary health, the skin of the body and 
limbs should be smartly rubbed, once in twenty-four 
hours, first with a rough towel wet with cold water, and 
then with a dry one till in a glow. The bather should 
stand on a dry rug while using this " cold friction bath," 
and it should not last more than one or two minutes, in- 
cluding both the wet and the dry rub. Salt may be 
advantageously added to the water ; and the bath may 
be used either on rising or going to bed, according to 
the feelings and convenience of each individual. 

When water cannot be borne cold, it must not be used 
tepid, but scalding hot.— The momentary application of 
scalding hot water to the skin, immediately followed by 
a brisk friction (" hot friction bath "), will produce a direct 
action glow much like the reaction glow following the 
application of cold. 

If the weather is very cold or the person delicate and 
chilly, the upper half of the body should be uncovered 
and bathed and rubbed first, and then a woollen vest 
should be put on and the lower half uncovered and 
bathed and rubbed. 

It is well to accustom the feet to being washed in cold 
yfater, but it must be done cautiously at first, and they 
should never be kept in the water more than a few 
seconds. 

It is obvious that there are times when cold bathing 



38 REST AND CHANGE. 

of all kinds must be temporarily discontinued, and 
except under definite medical orders it is not advisable 
to sit or stand in cold water. 



REGULATION OF THE BOWELS. 

» 

As a general rule, the bowels ought to act, at some 
stated time, once in the twenty-four hours; and it is 
best to accustom them to act in the morning, after 
breakfast. 

If they do not act spontaneously, they should be 
assisted by some wholesome article of diet which is 
found to affect them; or by some harmless aperient 
medicine, which must be prescribed by a medical man, 
to suit the particular case ; for the best aperient for one 
person may be the worst for another. 

Provided that an aperient medicine is suited to the 
case, and contains no drug injurious to the general 
health, there is no harm in taking it at night or in the 
early morning, whenever the bowels have not acted 
satisfactorily during the preceding day. 

It is a great mistake to load the stomach with fruits 
and vegetables in order to avoid taking some harmless 
aperient medicine. (See Special Recipes, etc., for the 
Sick-Room, Directions for removing Obstinate Consti- 
pation, and Obstruction of the Bowels.) 



REST AND CHANGE. 



Active life is essential to the health of body and 
mind ; but both require periods of rest, in addition to 



SMOKING. 39 

the regular hours of sleep. It is much better, therefore, 
to work vigorously for a time and then to rest, than to 
keep up a monotonous round of lifeless drudgery. (See 
Sleep, and Exercise.) 

The " current of the thoughts " is to the mind what 
posture is to the body; and both require change to 
prevent weariness and deformity. (See Posture.) 

Rest of body or mind may be obtained either by 
abstaining from all bodily or .mental exercise, or by 
change of occupation ; and as the one gives entire rest 
and the other only partial rest, it is best to adopt each 
of these measures at different times. 

It must be remembered, that as the mind acts by 
means of the brain, which is a part of the body, it can- 
not act healthfully while the body is suffering under 
disease or exhaustion. The "gait" of the mind is 
affected by the condition of the brain, as much as the 
"gait" of the body is affected by the condition of the 
limbs. 



SMOKING. 



A certain number of persons have a peculiar sus- 
ceptibility to the poisonous influence of Tobacco, and 
they should never touch it. But for the majority of 
adults a moderate amount of smoking does not appear 
to have any seriously deleterious influence, and in many 
it acts as a useful antidote to brain-worry. Its abuse is 
always injurious. 



40 MEALS. 



MEALS. 

i 

Counting from the time of beginning one meal to 
that of beginning the next, food should be taken at regular 
intervals of from four to five hours ; except the interval 
between dinner and a very slight tea, which may be re- 
duced to three hours. In weakly persons, and when 
the appetite will allow only a very small meal to be 
taken at one time, the intervals between all the meals 
may be reduced to from three to four hours. In illness, 
the interval must be ordered day by day by the medical 
man. In proportion as the interval is shorter, the food 
at each meal must be less in quantity and more easy 
of digestion. (See Proper Hours for Meals, also Diet of 
Infancy and Childhood.) 

The chief meal of the day — the full meal — by what- 
ever name it is called, should be taken at any hour 
when active occupation, both bodily and mental, can 
be suspended for from one and a-half to two hours. 
(See Sleep.) 

Breakfast should be the second best meal of the 
day, and should be taken leisurely immediately after 
rising in the morning. (See Exercise.) 

The other meals should be taken punctually at 
fixed hours, but should be only light refreshments, and 
small in bulk. 

No food should be taken in the intervals between the 
regular meals. 

As a general rule, pure water may be taken at any 
time, if indicated by thirst; so that the body is not 
heated by exercise, and the quantity drunk at once 
does not exceed a quarter of a pint, (See Exercise.) 



PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 41 

Spirituous liquors should not be taken the first thing 
in the morning or the last thing at night, without medical 
orders ; they should not be taken when the stomach is 
empty, and they should not be drunk stronger than in 
the proportion of one ounce avoirdupois of absolute alcohol 
in about ten fluid ounces of liquid. (See Alcohol Table.) 

One of the principal sources of mischief in the use of 
alcoholic liquors is the practice of taking them to quench 
thirst in the place of unfermented drinks. The sense of 
thirst is a call from the organism for water, not for alcohol. 
Let the alcohol be taken as food, as medicine, or as a 
luxury, but not to quench thirst in the place of those 
unfermented liquors which are essential to health as 
diluents and solvents. (See Alcohol Table ; Remarks on 
Alcohol in " Preliminary Remarks ; " and Appendix.) 

Alcohol Fasts. — Those who habitually take alcohol 
daily, should abstain from it entirely for a few days 
twice or thrice a year. 



PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 

Substance of a letter by the Author addressed to employers 
of labour, and printed for private circulation, 1852. 

...... That animal life cannot go on in even 

passable health and comfort without sufficient food and 
effectual digestion, is a fact perfectly familiar to all ; yet, 
unhappily among those who live an in-door life, effectual 
digestion is scarcely known. They constitute the bulk 
of that enormous number of persons who suffer from 
what is popularly known as "indigestion." 

Now, there can be no question that they are pre- 



42 PROPER HOURS FOB MEALS. 

disposed to this class of diseases by many circumstances, 
quite inseparable from their occupations. But that makes 
it the more desirable to avoid all those causes of disease 
which are not necessary to their pursuits. 

I am not speaking of any particular form 

of indigestion, but in a general and broad sense, of 
all those various maladies classed under the popular 
term. 

The choice of the hours at which clerks, shopmen, 
mechanics, labourers, and other business-servants of both 
sexes take their meals, depends almost entirely upon the 
decision of their superiors. 

If these hours are not well chosen, indigestion in 
some form is the certain consequence sooner or later. 
And it will be seen from the few plain facts which I shall 
detail, that the notions which have long prevailed as 
to the proper hours for taking food, and consequently the 
regulations of nearly all business establishments in this 
respect, are inconsistent with the conditions which phy- 
siology teaches us to be essential to healthy digestion, 
with the requirements of the various occupations by 
which persons gain their livelihood, and with the 
conventional arrangements of society in the present 
day. 

I shall hope, by avoiding all technicalities and minute 
physiological details, and by employing the plainest 
popular terms, to make my meaning perfectly intelli- 
gible to the unprofessional, to whom, in this instance, 
it is necessary to address my remarks; and I now ask 
particular attention to the following statement of the 
conditions necessary to healthy digestion. 

1. Food of appropriate quality and bulk. 

2. In the case of a full meal, — rest of body and tran- 



PROPER HOURS FOR MEALa 43 

quillity of mind for a short time previous to taking food 
and for at least an hour afterwards. In the case of a 
light meal, — gentle exercise and moderate mental activity 
may be allowed with impunity. 

3. Effectual mastication, by which the alimentary 
matter is completely disintegrated and saturated with 
saliva, and the meal taken slowly. 

4. A sufficient interval between any two meals, to 
allow the first to have been digested and removed from 
the stomach long enough for the digestive functions to 
have regained their full vigour, before the second is in- 
troduced. The period which should intervene will depend 
upon the nature and amount of food taken, the rapidity 
of digestion, which may vary according to the quantity 
eaten, the state of the health, the nature and amount of 
the previous exercise, the condition of the mind, and 
many other circumstances. 

5. Caution that the stomach is not empty long enough 
for the system to become exhausted, and the digestive 
powers thereby weakened. 

6. Strict adherence to the same hours for taking food, 
that the stomach may acquire a habit of preparing for 
its reception. 

7. An interval between the last meal and bedtime, suf- 
ficient to allow the work of digestion to be concluded 
before lying down to sleep. 

Many other conditions might be mentioned, but as the 
few main points already stated are enough for our present 
purpose, I shall confine myself to them. 

The circumstances under which the majority of those 
persons are placed whose health we are principally 
considering must now be reviewed, in order to compare 
them with the conditions essential to healthy digestion, 



44 PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 

and to draw the necessary conclusions as to the proper 

HOURS FOR MEALS. 

From the factory artisan up to the banker's or 
merchant's clerk, several important circumstances are 
common to all. 

1. The day is devoted to labour either of the body or 
of the mind, or of both. 

2. Business must be continued unremittingly up to the 
moment of leaving for meals, and resumed immediately 
on returning from them. 

3. The time which can be spared for meals during 
business hours must necessarily be very limited. 

4. Some portion of this short time must be occupied 
in repairing to and returning from the refreshment place. 

In many instances, especially in retail trades, the 
nature of the business renders it impossible to keep to 
fixed times for those meals taken during working 
hours. 

The fact of taking time for meals out of the middle 
of the day necessarily makes it later in the evening 
before the business can be finished ; and this not only 
to the extent of the time during which work is actually 
stopped; for we all know how much the progress of busi- 
ness is interrupted by the simple acts of discontinuing 
and recommencing it, more especially when books and 
calculations are concerned. The effects of these com- 
bined circumstances may be viewed daily by visiting 
the public dining-rooms attended by clerks, the lodgings 
of labourers at their dinner hour, and the offices and 
factories before and after meal-time — dinner-time more 
particularly, and dinner being the principal meal in 
the day — the full meal — it is of it that I shall chiefly 
speak. 



PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 45 

Twelve, one, and two o'clock seem to be the na- 
tional dining hours for the working classes, and sixty 
minutes the maximum time allowed from business for this 
chief meal. The hour having arrived, books or tools are 
hastily laid aside, and the dinmg-place is reached by a 
sharp walk, which adds to the bodily fatigue of the 
labourer, and is not long enough or sufficiently leisurely 
to rest the brain of the accountant. The dinner must be 
despatched hurriedly, or there will not be time for the 
artizan to smoke his pipe, or for the clerk to glance at 
The Times ; or perhaps the reading and eating are carried 
on at once. Mastication is carelessly performed, the 
mind is kept occupied, and the stomach rapidly loaded 
with food before it has had time to make ready for it; 
and in some cases a larger quantity is taken than the 
stomach has power to dispose of, simply because it is 
introduced too expeditiously for the system to become 
acquainted, as it were, with the fact that the supply of 
its wants is being effected. The meal finished, and the 
paper glanced at, or the pipe smoked, the sharp walk 
must be repeated — now with a full stomach — and busi- 
ness resumed before digestion haa had time even to com- 
mence ; and at this period, when the organic energies 
ought to be all concentrated about the stomach, they are 
at once summoned to the brain or to the muscular 
system. Consequently, the meal remains imperfectly 
digested, or not digested at all, lingers in the stomach 
beyond its proper time, and is finally expelled in an 
unnatural condition, unfitted to undergo the important 
changes necessary before it can be appropriated for 
healthy nutrition. In all probability the next meal is 
introduced before the former one has entirely left the 
stomach, and thus the mischief is increased. Comparing 



46 PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 

the circumstances, here briefly enumerated, with those 
essential to healthy digestion, laid down before, the 
antagonism, so evident between them, plainly shows 
that "Dyspepsia," or difficult digestion, is only the 
natural consequence of so persistent a disregard of the 
laws of health * 

I am aware that different businesses do, from their 
nature, present various obstacles in the way of carrying 
out such sanitary measures as are most desirable, and 
that one set of rules will not always be practicable in 
two establishments. Therefore, I should advise that the 
few principal conditions of healthy digestion before men- 
tioned be carefully borne in mind; and that in each 
establishment the hours for meals be so selected, that 
these conditions and the calls of business may be arranged 
in unison with each other. 

For a considerable period of time, during which my 
attention has been more particularly directed to this 
subject, I have made extensive inquiries on points con- 
nected with it, among employers and their servants, and 
have also had sufficient opportunities of enforcing the 
better regulation of meals upon both classes, with effects 
so decidedly beneficial, that I can with confidence impress 
the importance of the alterations I propose, and I am 
convinced of their general practicability. After this 
experience and a mature consideration of the subject 
scientifically, I beg to call attention to those regulations 
which appear to me to afford the nearest approach to 
the healthy standard that can be practicably arranged to 

* See " On the Functions and Disorders of the Liver and their 
management in accordance with the results of modern discovery/' 
Part VI. of the author's work on " Loss of "Weight," &c. 2nd 
Ed. 1880. 



PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 47 

meet the necessary obligations of business establishments 
in general.* 

Let me assume that a substantial breakfast has been 
taken soon after rising, and a short space of time allowed 
to elapse between the meal and the commencement of 
active business : — (in those cases where the hour for 
business is very early, the breakfast should be divided, 
the fast being broken by a light fluid meal, and a second 
light meal taken some hours after). But to return to 
the better plan. Breakfast having been taken, and the 
day's employment commenced, the arrangements are now 
under the direction of the employer. From this moment 
until labour ', whether mental or bodily, has ceased, no full 
meal should be allowed. This is to be considered the first 
golden rule. The second is not less important — that 
some light refection should be taken punctually every four 
or five hours. By adhering to the first rule, the system 
will never be charged with the task of active digestion 
at times when it is amply engaged in other functions ; 
the digestive organs will not be injured by being called 
upon to undertake what they cannot properly perform ; 
while the servant will not suffer from that oppressive 
languor and inertia, unavoidable after a full meal, and 
will be so much the better fitted for his duties. By the 
second rule the system is maintained in a state of energy ; 
the light refreshment, being easily digested during bodily 
or mental activity, supports the strength much more 
than a full but ill-digested and unassimilated meal can 
possibly do, and leaves the stomach itself unwearied, in 
a state of healthy vigour when the hour of relaxation 
from business arrives. Even in weak persons, a light 

* This was first written thirty years ago, and subsequent ex- 
perience has amply proved the value of the rules laid down. 



48 PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 

meal will almost invariably have quitted the stomach in 
four or at most five hours, and in the strong consider- 
ably sooner than this ; at intervals of four or five hours, 
therefore, according to the strength of the individual 
and the rapidity of his digestion, the stomach will be 
preparing for fresh work, and will call for it by the 
return of appetite, which must not on any account be 
disregarded. And in this place I must again impress 

THE SERIOUS IMPORTANCE TO HEALTH, OF NOT NEGLECT- 
ING THESE OCCASIONAL REFRESHMENTS DURING BUSINESS. 

The day's labour over, the objections to taking a 
full meal are at an end, provided the second golden rule 
has been observed ; and the supplementary amount of re- 
freshment necessary to repair the wear and tear of the 
day's exertions, may now be taken with decided advan- 
tage. 

I must here remind both employers and employed, 
that rest of mind and of body are necessary for a short 
time before taking a meal. (See Sleep.) To those who 
have been mentally occupied with sedentary business, 
a short leisurely walk will be a very proper prelude to 
dinner ; but to those whose physical powers have been 
taxed during the day, there should be a short period of 
perfect rest before commencing the chief meal. 

It is a habit too common among commercial men to 
return home, impatient for their dinners, and to com- 
mence eating immediately, while in a fatigued condition. 
I have, in many instances, induced such persons to lie 
down for a quarter of an hour before beginning their 
meal ; and I have seen so much benefit arise from this 
practice, that I can confidently recommend it to all who 
are actively engaged during the day. When the dinner 
is finished, one hour at least should be devoted to mental 



PROPER HOURS FOR IDEALS. 49 

and physical tranquillity — some leisurely amusement in 
most cases being preferable to sleep. (See Sleep.) When 
the meal has not exceeded the bounds of moderation, 
the process of gastric secretion will generally be well 
established within this period of rest ; after which, the 
same quantity of blood and nervous energy being no 
longer required by the stomach, some more active em- 
ployment of the mind or body may be indulged in, and 
all will go on well. 

The full meal of the day, then — the dinner — should, 
under ordinary circumstances, be taken between the 
hours of five and seven p.m., which will allow time for 
it to be entirely disposed of before the hour of sleep 
arrives ; and as the whole night passes without refresh- 
ment, a light refection, such as our national " tea," is 
very desirable about three hours after dinner. (See 
Afternoon Tea.) These arrangements will be found 
perfectly consistent with the essential conditions of 
healthy digestion ; and, with a little contrivance and 
modification of hours in particular instances, are prac- 
ticable in the majority of large establishments. And 
here let the friends of " Early Closing " observe, that by 
doing away with the injurious mid-day dinner, there 
will be so much saving of time in the best part of the 
day, and consequently a better opportunity of con- 
cluding business earlier in the evening. 

It remains for me briefly to point out some of the in- 
consistencies of the system now most popular among 
dyspeptics and those employed in business. The dinner 
being taken at one or two o'clock must necessarily be a 
hurried one ; it is impossible in the middle of business to 
allow time for rest, before or after the meal, to any ser- 
viceable extent : the evil consequences of this, in a large 

E 



50 PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 

number of instances, have been already referred to. The 
" tea " being taken between five and seven o'clock, can 
only be a light meal, for the stomach does not require 
more so soon after dinner; therefore there is but one 
alternative, to leave the system without substantial 
nourishment from two o'clock p.m. until breakfast next 
day, or to take another meal just before bedtime ; of the 
two the latter would be the better, if the supper could be 
limited to a very moderate refection ; but after waiting 
from an early dinner until nine or ten o'clock in the 
evening, a person in health has too good an appetite to 
be contented with this ; therefore the stomach is loaded 
at a time when it cannot empty itself properly before the 
hour of sleep ; the disadvantages of which are too fami- 
liar to need repeating here. Any one, therefore, who is 
anxious to regulate his diet according to the popular ideas 
' of what is healthy, finds himself in this dilemma. — He 
believes it to be an essential point that he should dine at 
an early hour. He knows that rest before meals, eating 
them slowly, and rest after them, are all necessary to 
proper digestion. He also knows perfectly well that, in 
the middle of the day, his business will not allow him 
either the rest or the leisurely dinner. Supper he is con- 
vinced is a most unwholesome meal, yet he knows from 
sore experience, that to fast from his early " tea " until 
next morning leaves him too exhausted to sleep comfort- 
ably, to rise with vigour, or to enjoy breakfast. — At 
length, if he reasons at all, it becomes clear to him that 
to do what he thinks right in one respect, he must do 
wrong in another — a sufficient proof that there is error 
in the whole system. 



AFTERNOON TEA, LATE DINNERS, ETC. 51 
AFTERNOON TEA, ETC. 

Some remark is necessary in reference to the now pre- 
valent custom of dining very late and taking an after- 
noon tea. It assimilates our present hours for meals 
very nearly with those of old English country life ; — 
breakfast, dinner, tea, and supper — supper being then the 
chief meal, as dinner is now. But then people went to 
bed early— that is, soon after supper — instead of sitting 
up, for many hours after the meal, as in the present day, 
and which should be an essential condition if a late dinner 
is to be allowed. 

Unless cautiously arranged, afternoon tea is apt to 
lead to dyspepsia. The rule should be for tea to precede 
the dinner by three hours, and not to come sooner after 
lunch than three hours — assuming the lunch to have 
been a good meal. 

If any tea or coffee is taken after dinner, it ought to 
be immediately after, — so as to constitute part of the same 
meal and to partake in the same process of digestion, — 
or else, as already stated, not less than three hours 
after, but in this case there should not have been any 
afternoon tea. 

It is most injurious to take tea or coffee from one 
to two hours after dinner or any other full meal, i.e. t in 
the middle of digestion. 

Finally, on going to bed, a tumbler of water should 
be drunk, to clean the stomach of the ctebris of the last 
meal. This will promote a refreshing sleep and a clean 
mouth in the morning. 



E 2 



52 



Chapter II. 
FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

(See Essentials of a Normal Diet.) 

A Foot-pound, a Foot-ton, a British Unit of Heat. — Mechanical- 
equivalent of a British Unit of Heat. — Combustion of Carbon. 
— Consumption of Oxygen, Evolution of Heat. — Mode in 
which the Heat Evolved from Food is Disposed of. — Composi- 
tion of some of the Principal Articles of Food and their Heat 
and Mechanical Equivalents. — Weight and Cost of Food com- 
pared with Work Produced. — Uses of Nitrogenous and Non- 
nitrogenous Foods. 

The relation between food, heat, and mechanical force 
has been the subject of some of the most important in- 
vestigations of late years, and the light which has been 
thrown upon it is one of the greatest steps in the pro- 
gress of medical science. But so far as medical art and 
practice are concerned, comparatively little application 
has yet been made of this advance in scientific know- 
ledge. This is only what might be expected, consider- 
ing the occult nature of the subject, and the scarcity of 
time among the great body of medical practitioners to 
master and familiarise themselves with the details of 
such departments of medical progress. 

Nevertheless, it is high time that such facts as are 
at present known, and such applications of them as are 
at present possible, should be added to the common stock 
of knowledge possessed by practical medical men ; for it 
is only in this way that the public can derive benefit 
from our advances in science. 



FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 53 

For the purpose, therefore, of enabling practitioners 
easily to familiarise themselves with these matters, the 
following concise statement has been prepared : — 

1. A Foot-pound is the amount of mechanical force 
required to raise a pound weight one foot. 

2. A British Unit of Heat is the amount of heat re- 
quired to raise the temperature of one pound of water 
one degree Fahrenheit. 

3. This amount of heat (a British unit) may be con- 
verted into mechanical force sufficient to raise a pound 
weight 772 feet. 

4. This amount of heat (a British unit) is generated 
by a pound weight falling through a space of 772 feet. 
Hence 772 foot-pounds is called the Mechanical Equivalent 
of a British unit of heat. 

5. One ton weight is 2,240 lbs. ; -&& = 034465 ; 
therefore, the heat units multiplied by 0*34465, will 
always give the mechanical equivalent in Foot-tons. 

6. The heat of combustion of carbon and hydrogen 
fully oxidised (to CO2 and H 2 0) is as follows : — 

1 lb. { £ eV0lveS IfZ } British Units of Heat. 

7. The total heat of combustion of a compound con- 
taining H and C is the sum of the quantities of heat 
which the C and H contained in it would produce sepa- 
rately by their combustion. 

8. It has been found that the presence of Hydrogen 
with Oxygen in the proportion to form water does not affect 
the total heat of combustion. It is only the excess of Hy- 
drogen that can be made serviceable as a source of avail- 
able heat. 

9. The mean consumption of oxygen by an adult man 
of average stature (weight 150 lbs.), taking ordinary 



54 FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

exercise, is about 30 ozs. avoirdupois in twenty-four 
hours, and the heat evolved by each 1 oz. of oxygen in 
combining with carbon, hydrogen, etc., is about 340 
British units. Hence, 10,000 British units of heat will 
be evolved every twenty-four hours by the combination 
of 30 ozs. of oxygen with carbon, hydrogen, etc. ; there- 
fore the food of an adult man, under ordinary cir- 
cumstances, should be such as may, in addition to 
other purposes, evolve at least 10,000 British units of 
heat. 

10. Practical experience in the dieting of large num- 
bers of men, and other means, have enabled us to estab- 
lish the fact, that such an average man, as above 
described, requires, for the maintenance of health, a diet 
which shall contain about 4 ozs. of plastic materials, 
3 ozs. of fat, and 10 ozs. of carbo-hydrates ; and on care- 
ful analysis of this diet, we find that it can supply the 
required 10,000 British units of heat — viz., 2,516 from 
the plastic, 3,357 from the fat, and 4,150 from the carbo- 
hydrates; total, 10,023. (See "Essentials of a Normal 
Diet; Chap. III.) 

11. The mode in which these 10,000 British units of 
heat are disposed of, and the purposes which they serve, 
may be seen in the following calculation, which has been 
made as nearly correct as possible. 8,000 British units 
are required as sensible heat, — to raise the temperature 
of the inspired air to the temperature of the body, to 
vaporise the pulmonary halitus, and to maintain animal 
heat. The mechanical equivalent of 2,000 British units 
(equal to 690 foot-tons) is expended in actual work, 
more than half of which is employed in internal vital 
work (the mechanical work of the heart alone is equi- 
valent to 200 foot-tons ; respiratory and other vital 



FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 55 

movements may be estimated as equivalent to nearly 
200 foot-tons more), leaving about 290 foot-tons avail- 
able for external work, which may be represented by the 
labour of walking 16 miles ; but of course only so much 
is available for actual walking as is not used in the other 
external movements of the body which we daily per- 
form. 

In the following table the conditions laid down in 
Nos. 6, 7, 8 of the foregoing paragraphs have been ob- 
served in calculating the British units of heat given in 
the last column but one, and the mechanical equivalent 
of the Heat-units given in the last column has been cal- 
culated by the rule stated in paragraph 5. 

(See Table I. overleaf.) 



56 



FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 



- 0b 



TOO) 9001 
ivoimnpejl 






w 



•OOQCiOOOOOiOiOOlOOiOOOiOOO 

S5S5S£J2 eo 52 too ' , * ,eo -*oooocoooeoNo> 
00 *255©»o-«©»©i©''***-e*c*©coo»«o©co 

i-H^0O0O**-r«0O'<*0000Q0e*CO<N©COC*CO<NrH 

Q< W IH ■— I fH ?-• rH r-t HCOH 



00'*©0OtQ00<O00eH00»Qi-iCO'4«00<O<DkQ©O0 
NN«^NNhWM(N CO CO C4 r-1 00 O CO 



ao©otQaoc0QOC0<4«©eqaoc*f«t-it-ieo©f-io> 

0«J«®eOHMOCOWHOCOCONrt09»WO 



NQ0NC000«30>0>NNO0J(NW»0^^®Oe0 

oonohowocowooconoh^o^o 



©cot>-©eoeo^eo<o©©©c4oOfHco»<-rHO>co 

OOOHOOOOOOOOOOOOOHOO 



HHO^ 



THoo©eococor^^veoocoooco 

e>©e*e*^CO©<NCOCN©©© 



ooooooooooooooooo 



CN 

o 

o 



ue^vii 



aOOOtONNNOQOHO^NCOOOOOvO 
nC4«HCONHNHH(OOOHH(ONOHHQO 



'l«ian|H 



•^ueraaidraoo 



>0OONi0"*0>N00k0©00NNH 

Ophh^NWNhONOWNNH 

I oo<oooooooooooo 



o 
oo 



1 1 



o 
o 



(N.O, . . © . CO 00 , , CO CO . CO CO . ,00 

o I O I ■ 1 i-H I o o I I o •-« • o o ' ' © 



•0)0 



*auuvipo«g 



1 1 1 II 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 111 I 



<0 i 

00 



CO 



2 l£ I 



o 

»© 



CO 
CO 



00 <M O 

-^ co«o 
© »© "^ 



©*- . 

CO .-I I 
CM 00 I 



© 00 

© **- 
o> © 



m v*& 



•0J)B«li 



tONO(DOOO)000>00)HQOkOO 
(N©CO»O©©©«-""^0000»Oi-HCO 
OO00C4HOOOOOOOOH 



-*© 
© to 

© 00 



© 
© 



«^00«00(OMi-iU)iOOO)>ONH 
©00©i-H©»O»OCO^00C<I^»O»-Ht^-r-t»O 

OOhOWHOhhOWOmNhOO 



Mi 



•siod 
■npjioAV *sz0 



©©©©©©©o©o©oo©©©©©©© 

©©O00©©0©©©©0©©©©00© 
©O0©0©©©©0©©©©©©©©©© 



Q 

o 
o 

h 

o 

00 

« 



3 



i 



U Q 




*hj 



© 

3 

eg 



iS1IJ&Hi|j|li-8 SSIB 



•* OS © 




FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 



57 



TABLE II. 

Professor Frankland has determined the weight and cost of various ali- 
mentary articles that would be required to raise the body- weight of a person 
of 10 stone or 140 lbs. to a height of 10,000 feet, reckoning in accordance 
with Helmholtz's calculation, that the animal system is capable of turning 
one-fifth of the actual energy developed by the oxidation of the food to 
account as external work. 



Name of Food. 



Cod Liver Oil 

Beef Fat 

Butter 

Cocoa Nibs 

Cheshire Cheese . . . • 
Oatmeal . • ,. . . .. 

Arrowroot 

Flour 

Peameal .. 

Ground Bice 

Isinglass 

Lump Sugar 

Commercial Grape Sugar 
Hard-boiled Eggs . . . . 

Bread 

Lean Ham (boiled) . . 

Mackerel 

Lean Beef 

Lean Veal .. 

Potatoes 

Whiting 

Apples 

Milk 

WhiteofEgg 

Carrots . . 

Cabbage 

Guinness 1 Stout (bottled) 
Bass' Pale Ale (bottled) . . 



Weight in 
lbs. required. 







1' 

r 



553 
555 
693 
735 
156 
281 



1-287 



1 
1 

1 

r 
I- 



311 
336 
341 
377 
505 



1-587 



At price per lb. 



«. d. 

3 6 

10 

1 6 
1 6 
10 
2f 



2- 
2- 
3- 
3- 
3- 
4- 
5' 



•209 
'345 
001 
124 
-532 
-300 
-068 
6-369 
7-815 
8-021 
8-745 
9-685 
12-020 
6} bottles 

9 „ 



1 



16 




1 





2\ 

3< 

4 


6 

% 

2 
6 



Cost. 



«. A 



8 

1 
1 

1 

1 4 
1} 

6 per qt 

6 

1J 

1 

10 per bottle 

10 „ 



11} 




" Looked at in the manner above represented, mus- 
cular work, like heat, in opposition to Liebig's theory, is 
derivable from the oxidation of non-nitrogenous as well 
as nitrogenous matter, and Professor Frankland's tables 
show that '55 lbs. of fatty matter will furnish the same 
amount of power as is obtainable from 1*3 lbs. of flour, 
1*5 lbs. of sugar, 3*5 lbs. of lean beef, and 5 lbs. of 



58 FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

potatoes. Traube even inverted the proposition of 
Liebig, and asserted in the most decided manner that 
the substances by the oxidation of which force is 
generated in the muscles are not the albuminous con- 
stituents of the tissues, but non-nitrogenous principles, 
viz., either fats or carbo-hydrates. 

"According to the foregoing table, wherein is men- 
tioned the cost of the various articles of food required to 
be consumed to accomplish a given amount of work, it 
appears — viewing these articles purely in their capacity 
as force-producing agents by oxidation — that the same 
amount of work is obtainable from oatmeal costing 3|d. ; 
flour, 3}d. ; bread, 4|d. ; and beef fat, 5Jd.; as from beef 
costing 3s. 6£d. and isinglass, £1 2s. 0£d. 

" Taking all the facts as at present revealed into con- 
sideration, we appear to be warranted in adopting the 
following terms of expression. It is in the first place 
admitted on all hands that food is the source from which 
muscular power is derived, and hence the supply of food 
should be in proportion to the amount of work that is 
performed. It was formerly thought that food must be 
converted into muscular tissue before it could be avail- 
able for the performance of work, which involved the 
origin of work from nitrogenous alimentary matter. The 
effect of recent investigation, however, is to show that 
it is not to an oxidation of muscular tissue that we are 
to look for the force produced. The muscles appear to 
stand in the position of instruments for effecting the 
conversion of the chemical energy evolved by the oxida- 
tion of combustible matter into working power. Fats 
and carbo-hydrates can furnish the combustible matter 
required, ,and, under ordinary circumstances, probably do 
largely, if not chiefly, supply it. Nitrogenous matter 



FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 59 

can do so likewise, but it has to undergo a preparatory 
metamorphosis for effecting the separation of nitrogen in 
a suitable form for elimination. . . . 

"As thus considered the non-nitrogenous alimentary 
principles appear to possess a higher dietetic value than 
L myogenous, and when regarfed solely in relation to 
capacity for force production, there is no doubt they in 
reality do so. But there is a further point to be looked at. 
The physical development and maintenance of the body must 
be likewise taken into account, and for this it is nitrogenous 
alimentary matter only that can supply what is needed. 
Wherever vital operations are going on there exists 
the need for nitrogenous matter. It is, indeed, through 
the instrumentality of nitrogenous matter that the opera- 
tions of life occur. The tissues which form the instru- 
ment of living action require to be constructed, in the first 
instance, and next, to be constantly renovated, to com- 
pensate for the loss by deterioration which is continually 
going on. Thus, a demand for nitrogenous alimentary 
matter is created quite apart from direct contribution to 
force production; and, further, not only is nitrogenous 
matter required for the construction and repair of the 
tissues, but likewise to form a constituent of the secre- 
tions, for all secretions which possess active properties owe 
them to the presence of a nitrogenous principle. Here 
then is an additional demand for nitrogenous matter, 
and it is to be remarked that as increased work leads 
to an increased development of the tissues employed 
and thereby an increased appropriation of nitrogenous 
matter, so it calls for an increased production of secre- 
tions in consequence of the larger amount of food that 
has to be prepared for consumption. In this way, theo- 
retically, without contributing in a direct manner to 



60 FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

force production, the performance of work may be looked 
upon as necessitating a proportionate supply of nitrogenous 
alimentary matter. 

" Practically, it is found that hard work is best per- 
formed under a liberal supply of nitrogen-containing 
food. The reason probably is that it leads to a better 
nourished condition of the muscles and of the body 
generally. Under the use of animal food, which is cha- 
racterised by its richness in nitrogenous matter, the 
muscles, it is affirmed, are observed to be firmer and 
richer in solid constituents than under subsistence upon 

food of a vegetable nature As albuminous 

food produces firm muscles, so exercise makes them red. 

" To sum up — science intimates that a liberal supply 
of nitrogenous matter is necessary to produce and main- 
tain muscles in a good condition for work, and the 
result of experience is to confirm it. 

" I have been speaking of food considered in relation 
to the performance of work, but it would be unphiloso- 
phical to look at it only in this light. The question 
should be viewed under a broader aspect ; and the point 
really for the physiologist to discuss is under what com- 
bination of alimentary principles the highest state of 
development, both mental and physical, is attainable. If 
regarded as living for the mere performance of work, and 
looked at economically, man, it may be said, would bear 
an unfavourable comparison with a machine set in motion 
by steam. Mechanical work is under no form so costly 
as under that produced by muscular agency, and parti- 
cularly by that of man. It has been calculated, it is 
true, that whilst through the medium of the animal 
system, one-fifth of the power stored up in the food con- 
sumed is realisable as external mechanical work, the 



FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 61 

amount realisable from fuel is only one-tenth in the case 
of even the best constructed steam-engine, the remainder 
being dissipated or lost as heat. Thus far, the animal 
machine is more economical of its force than the machine 
of artificial construction ; but on the other hand, the 
fuel (food) consumed in the former is very much more 
costly than that consumed in the latter. From this con- 
sideration human labour can never compete in economy 
with steam, and hence, as suggested by Donders, the 
worse use to make of a man is to employ him exclusively 
in mechanical work — a proposition which harmonises 
with the increasing introduction of machinery in our 
advancing age of civilisation. 

" Letheby {Cantor Lectures on Food) on the subject of 
the comparative costliness of food and fuel, says, ' Taking 
a steam engine of one horse power (that is a power 
of raising 33,000 lbs. a foot high per minute) it will 
require two horses in reality to do the same work for 
ten hours a day, or twenty-four men; and the cost 
would be lOd. for the steam engine, 8s. 4d. for the two 
horses, and just £2 sterling for the twenty-four men.' 

" From what has preceded we may conclude that, with 
a supply of nitrogenous matter sufficient for the thorough 
development and subsequent maintenance of the body in 
good condition, the best materials for the production of 
working power, as well as heat, are the non-nitrogenous 
principles, and that of these the fats * are more effective 
than the others." (" A Treatise on Food," etc., by F. W. 
Pavy, M.D., 1874.) 

* See Fat, Chapter VII. 



62 



Chapter III. 
NORMAL DIET. 

(See Food, Heat and Motion.) 

Essentials of a Normal Diet. — Mode of Constructing Diets. — Ex- 
pensive Diets and Cheap Diets for Maintaining Health. — 
Tables and Analyses. 



ESSENTIALS OF A NORMAL DIET. 

A healthy adult man of average stature, taking mode- 
rate exercise, will require and can consume, daily, from 
32 to 40 ounces avoirdupois of dry nutritious food, 
which should have the following characters : — 

1. About -^J-q must be mineral matter. 

2. From J- to \ may be water* leaving f — or not 
less than \ — or from 15 to 20 ounces of anhydrous 
solid alimentary material. 

3. Three or four ounces of plastic matter must be com- 
bined with three or four times that quantity of heat- 
giving material. 

4. The heat-giving constituents must contain a mix- 
ture of fats (hydro-carbons) with saccharine materials 
(carbo-hydrates), in the proportion of about 1 of the 
former to three of the latter. 

5. These heat-giving constituents should supply from 
6 to 10 ounces of carbon, the exact amount required 
varying with season, exercise, etc. 

* See Table III., showing the quantities of water in various 
foods. 



DIET TABLES. 63 

6. The Articles of Food must be sufficiently varied to 
meet the requirements of the taste and of the appetite, 
and their Mechanical and other Conditions must be suited 
to the digestive powers of the stomach. 

In addition to these characters, every complete diet 
must contain some potash- vegetable or fruit; and the 
total amount of water taken in 24 hours, including that 
contained in the dry food, must not be less than 70 ounces 
avoirdupois. 



DIET TABLES 

FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF HEALTH IN ADULTS LIVING 
IN THE CLIMATE OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. 

Each diet table contains all the essential elements of 
nutrition, in forms, quantities and proportions necessary 
to the maintenance of health. The tables have been 
made complete without Alcohol, leaving this to be ordered 
or not, according to circumstances. But, if fermented 
liquors are added to any diet table, the quantity of 
carbon which they contain must be borne in mind. (See 
Table X., Chapter VIIL, also pp. 7—9.) 

It will be observed that the totals of the correspond- 
ing columns of the analyses are nearly the same in all 
the diet tables, showing the important fact that all the 
essentials of a normal diet may be equally secured in a 
diet that is simple and cheap and in one that is com- 
plicated and expensive. 

In all diets Salt must be used, and in those which 
do not include Potatoes, some other Potash- vegetable, 
or Fruit, or Cresses, or Lime or Lemon juice must be 
taken. (See Table V.) 



L 



64 



DIET TABLES. 



No. 1. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


Fluid 




Food for 94 hoars. 








rine. 




Ou. 


Ozs. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 




6 


Meat, Poultry or 
















Game (cooked) 


3*97 


1-35 


•53 


— 


•42 




4 


Fish • . . . • • 


319 


•66 


•03 


— 


•02 




10 




4*20 


1-00 


•07 


4-53 


1-93 




8 


Potatoes 


6-81 


•14 


— 


1-84 


•76 




2 




•18 


•10 


•01 


1-63 


•73 




2ft 




— 


— 


— 


2-50 


1-06 




2J 




— 


— 


2-50 


— 


1-85 


6 




Milk 


4-34 


•25 


•17 


•21 


•22 


16 






15-77 


— 


— 


•22 


•10 


16 






15-06 


^— 


— 


•05 


•02 


17 






17-00 


— 


— 


— 


— 


54 


36 




70-41 


3-60 


3*31 


10*98 


7-01 
1-89 






In Plastic matter 
Total 














8-99 













No. 2. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- Carbon. 


Fluid 




Food for 84 hours. 








rine. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 




8 


Meat, Poultry or 
















Game (cooked) . . 


6-29 


1-80 


•71 


— 


•56 




12 




604 


1-20 


•08 


5-44 


2-32 




12 


Potatoes . . 


8-71 


•20 


— 


2-76 


114 




2 




— 


- 


2-00 


— 


1-48 




2 




— 





— 


2 00 


•84 


6 




Milk 


4-34 


•25 


•18 


•21 


•23 


16 




Chocolate 


15-20 


•07 


•32 


•38 


•42 


16 




Tea 


15-96 


— 


— 


•06 


•02 


16 






1600 


— 


— 


— 


— — 


53 


36 




70-53 


3-52 


3-29 


10-84 


7*01 
1-90 






In Plastic 
• 


matter 
fotal 










8-91 







DIET TABLES. 



65 



No. 3. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


Fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 




18 




7*56 


1-80 


•12 


8-15 


3-47 




3J 




1-28 


1-07 


•89 


•08 


•70 




3 




•76 


•25 


1-88 


— 


1-48 




H 


Milk 


— 


— 


— 


1-50 


•63 


5 




4-33 


•26 


•17 


•21 


•22 


20 




Chocolate 


19-00 


•10 


•40 


•60 


•60 


20 






19-93 


— 


— — 


•07 


•04 


20 




Water 


2000 


"~™ 


™~ 


"~ 


— • 


65 


26 




72-86 


3-47 


3-55 


10-51 


7-04 
1-87 






In Plastic 


s matter 
Total 














8-91 



No. 4. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


Fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Oz?. 




8 


Fish 


6-38 


1-33 


•06 




•06 




16 


Bread 


6-72 


1*60 


•11 


725 


309 




8 


Potatoes 


5-81 


•14 


__ 


1-84 


•76 




2i 


Butter 


— 


— 


2*50 


— 


1-85 


10 




Milk 


6-93 


•40 


•28 


•34 


•36 


20 




Cocoa 


19-10 


•10 


•60 


•20 


•56 




1* 


Sugar 


— 


— 


— 


1-60 


•63 


25 




Water 


25-00 


"■"■" 


-~~~ 


~~~ 


~"™ 


55 


36 




69*94 


3-57 


3-56 


1113 


7*30 
1-93 






In Plastic matter 
Total 










9-23 










1 


I 



66 



DIET TABLES. 



No. 6. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


Fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 




088. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 




16 




6-72 


1-60 


•11 


7-25 


3-09 




3 




•41 


•65 


•04 


1-40 


•65 




4 




1-14 


•33 


2-60 


— 


1-98 




2 




•73 


•61 


•61 


•05 


•40 


10 




Milk 


6-94 


•40 


•28 


•34 


•36 


20 






19-71 


— 


— 


•28 


•13 




1 




— 


— 


— 


1-00 


•42 


35 






35-00 


•— 


— — 


— 


-*■ 


63 


26 




70-65 


3*59 


3-44 


10-32 


7-03 
1-94 






In Plastic 


j matter 
rotal 










8-97 







No. 6. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


Fluid 




Food for 84 hours. 








rine. 




Ozs. 


Oz. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Oz.«. 


40 




Milk 


34-68 


2 00 


1-40 


1-68 


1-80 




4 


Rice 


•36 


•20 


•02 


3-26 


1-46 




3 


Eggs (two) . . 


2-16 


•45 


•32 


... 


•26 




2* 


Sugar 


— 


— 


— 


2-50 


1-05 




1 


Butter 


— 


— 


100 


__ 


•74 




9 


Bread 


3-78 


•90 


•06 


4-08 


1-74 


30 




Water 


30-00 


— 


— 


— 




70 

( 


19* 


• 


70-97 


3-55 


2-80 


11-52 


7 05 
1-92 






In Plastic matter 








To 


tal .. 


8-97 









DIET TABLES. 



67 



No. 7. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 


> 


Water. 


Plastic 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


Fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




Ozs. 


Oxs. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 




20 


Bread 


8-40 


200 


•14 


9-06 


3-86 




3 


Eggs (two) . . 


•21 


•44 


•32 


— 


•26 




1J 


Butter . . 


— 


— 


1-50 


— 


Ml 


20 




Milk 


1734 


1-00 


•70 


•84 


•90 


20 




Cocoa 


1910 


•10 


•60 


•20 


•56 




1 


Sugar 


— 


— 


— 


•75 


•31 


25 




Water 


25 00 


^~ 


™"~ 


"~" 


^^ 


66 


25} 




70-05 


3-54 


3*26 


10-85 


7 00 
1-91 






In Plastic matter 
Total 










8-91 











No. 8. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic 


Fat 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


Fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 




8 


Bice 


•72 


•40 


•03 


6-54 


2-93 




7* 


Eggs (five) . 




5-40 


1-11 


•80 


— 


•66 




H 


Sugar . . . 




— 


— 


_ . 


2-50 


1-05 




ij 


Butter . . . 




— 


— 


1-26 


— 


•92 


40 




Milk .. . 




34-68 


2-00 


1-40 


1-68 


1-80 


30 




Water .. . 




3000 


— — 


~— 


— ■ 


"■"■* 


70 


19} 


. 


70-80 


3-51 


3-48 


10-72 


7-85 
1-89 






In Plastic matter 
Total 










9-24 













F 2 



68 



DIET TABLES. 







No 


. 9. 










1 Liquid. 
I Fluid 
1 Ozs. 


Dry. 
Ozs. 


Food for 24 hours. 


Water. 
Ozs. 


Plastic 
Ozs. 


Fat. 
Ozs. 


Saccha- 
rine. 
Ozs. 


Carbon. 
Ozs. 


27 
42 


9 

3 
6 


Eggs (four) . . 
Milk 


1-13 

4-32 
23-41 
42-00 


1-28 

•88 
1-35 


•09 
1-76 

•64 
•94 


6-28 
300 
1-13 


2-82 
1-38 
1-26 
•62 
1-21 


69 


19} 




70-86 


3-61 


3-42 


10-41 


7-19 
1-89 


i 




In Plastic matter 

TotAl 










9-08 















No. 


10. 










Liquid. 

Fluid 

Ozs. 


Dry. 
Ozs. 


Food for 24 hours. 


Water. 
Ozs. 


Plastic. 
Ozs. 


Fat. 
Ozs. 


Saccha- 
rine. 
Ozs. 


Carbon. 
Ozs. 


22 
49 


16 
If 


Oatmeal 

Milk 

Butter 

Sugar 

Water 


214 
1907 

49-00 


2*40 
1-10 


•93 

•77 

1-76 


8*61 
•90 

•75 


4-46 
•99 

1 30 
•32 


71 


18| 




70-21 


3-60 


3-46 


10-16 


7-07 
1-89 






In Plastic matter 
Total 










8-96 















No. 


11. 










Liquid. 
Fluid 
Ozs. 


Dry. 
Ozb. 


Food for 24 hours. 


Water. 
Ozs. 


Plastic. 
Ozs. 


Fat 
Ozs. 


Saccha- 
rine. 
Ozs. 


Carbon. 
Ozs. 


60 


25 
2 


Water 


10-50 
1-18 

6000 


2-60 
1-00 


•17 

•83 

2-00 


11-33 
•08 


4*82 

•65 

1-48 


60 


30± 




71-68 


3*60 


300 


11-41 


6-95 
1-89 






In Plastio matter 
Total 










8-84 











DIETS FOR THE VERY POOR. 69 



DIETS FOR THE VERY POOR. 

The attention of those who visit the poor is requested to 
the following. (See also Appendix, " On Bread Diet and 
Typhus Fever") 

There is considerable difficulty in selecting diets, for 
the very poor, in a form which the stomach will tolerate, 
combining cheapness and simplicity with the essential 
chemical composition. But the two following will be 
found to fulfil all these conditions, so far as it is pos- 
sible to do so without the introduction of meat; and 
in one of them bread is given in the largest quantity 
consistent with health : — 



No. 12. 

Allowance for twenty-four hours : Bread, 25 oz. ; 
cheese, 2 oz. ; butter, suet, or dripping, 2 oz. These 
yield to analysis : plastic material, 31 oz. ; fat, 23 oz. ; 
saccharine material, 11 '4 oz. 



No. 13. 

Allowance for twenty-four hours: oatmeal, 16 oz.; 
milk, J pint; butter, suet, or dripping, 1 oz. These 
yield to analysis : plastic material, 3'0 oz. ; fat, 2*3 oz. ; 
saccharine, 9*0 oz. 

To each of these diets must be added limejuice or some 
land vegetable, salt, and a free supply of pure water. 
(See Potash Vegetables and Fruits, p. 99.) 



70 



WATEB IN VARIOUS FOODS. 



PERCENTAGE OF WATER IN VARIOUS FOODS. 

The following table, constructed by Dr. Edward Smith, 
will show the proportionate quantities of water which 
are present in various solid and liquid foods : — 







TABLE III. 










Per Cent, of Water. 




Per Cent, of Water. 


Arrowroot ... 


... 


... 


18 


Parsnips 


• • • a 


• • 


82 


Barley flour 


... 


... 


15 


Pea meal ■-•- 


• • • m 


*• 


15 


Beer and ale 


... 


... 


91 


Potatoes 


• • • ■ 


• • 


75 


Butter-milk 


... 


... 


88 


Poultry 


• • • « 


• • 


74 


Carrots 


... 


... 


83 


Pure Butter and Fat 


• • 


15 


Cheese 


• *• 


... 


36 


xvice ... ... 


• • • ■ 


• • 


13 


Cream 


... 


... 


66 


Bye meal ... 


• • • « 


► • • 


15 


Dried bacon 


... 


... 


15 


Salmon 


• • • l 


► •• 


77 


Eels... 


... 


... 


75 


Skim cheese 


• • • i 


» • a 


44 


Egg 


... 


... 


74 


Skim milk ... 


• • • I 


» •• 


88 


Fat beef 


... 


... 


51 


Sugar 


• • • i 


*• 


5 


Fat mutton... 


... 


... 


53 


Treacle 


• • • 


• * • 


23 


Fat pork ... 


... 


... 


39 


Tripe 


• • • i 


»•• 


68 


Green bacon 


... 


... 


24 


Turnips 


• •• 


ft •• 


91 


Indian meal... 


... 


... 


14 


v eai ... ... 


• • • 


• • • 


63 


Lean beef ... 


... 


... 


72 


Wheaten bread 


« • • 


» •• 


37 


Lean mutton 


.. 


... 


72 


Wheaten flour 


• • • 


• • • 


15 


New milk ... 


... 


... 


86 


White fish ... 


• •• 


• • • 


78 


Oatmeal 


... 


... 


15 


White of egg 


• • • 


ft • • 


78 


Ox liver 


... 


... 


74 


Yolk of egg 


• •• 


• • • 


78 



71 



Chapter IV. 
ON THE DIET AND REGIMEN OF CHILDREN. 

Dr. Sansom on the Diet of Infants up to Twelve Months old : — 
Mother's Milk ; Wet-nursing ; Artificial Feeding ; Cow's 
Milk ; Condensed Milk ; Ass's Milk ; Goat's Milk ; Arti- 
ficial Human Milk ; Partial Suckling ; Starchy Foods. — 
Dr. West on the Food for a Child of Eighteen Months old. — 
Obstetrical Society's Rules for the Management of Infants : — 
Washing ; Clothing ; Ventilation ; Sleep ; Air and Exercise ; 
Feeding ; Diet for a Nursing Woman ; Mixed Feeding for 
Children ; Weaning ; Food of grown up People bad for 
Children ; Hand Feeding. — The Weight of Infants. — Quan- 
tity of Food required by Infants. 



ON THE DIET OF INFANTS. 

Contributed by Dr. Sansom, Senior Physician to the North- 
Eastern Hospital for Children, etc., etc. 

As soon as possible after birth — that is, directly after 
the proper cleansing — the infant should be put to the 
mother's breast. This measure tends to the well-being 
of both mother and child. It is objected sometimes 
that it is fruitless, because the breasts are not yet sup- 
plied with milk ; but it is well proved that the stimulus 
to the nipple promotes a proper muscular contraction of 
the uterus of the mother, and the action of sucking is of 
infinitely greater value to the child than the adminis- 
tration of the messes that the past generation of nurses 
has been in the habit of enforcing. 

It cannot be too strongly urged that the only proper 
food for a young infant is the breast-milk of its own 
mother. It is, however, often objected that the mother 



72 ON THE DIET OF INFANTS. 

cannot suckle her offspring. She is said to be too weak ; 
the recent struggle has exhausted her will, and the 
solicitations of sympathetic friends induce her to yield to 
the policy of abstention. Let it be explained to her that 
there is frequently a greater danger to herself, a still 
more pronounced cause of weakness, if the natural secre- 
tion of milk be checked ; and, as regards the infant, the 
comparative danger of artificial feeding is simply incon- 
trovertible. A healthy mother should suckle her child, 
and give it no other food whatever, for seven months ; so 
far as possible it should be put to the breast at regular 
intervals every two or three hours. 

Supposing the maternal suckling to be impossible, the 
best substitute, at least theoretically, is a wet-nurse. She 
should be a healthy woman, brunette preferred, not over 
thirty years of age ; but the age should assimilate as far 
as possible that of the child's mother. She should be 
carefully examined to exclude all taint of disease, and 
should have good milk of sufficient quality. If these 
conditions be fulfilled, and the equally important moral 
qualifications be all that can be desired, then wet-nursing 
is the best substitute for maternal nursing. It is un- 
necessary, however, to say that such desiderata are rarely 
forthcoming ; it is only in a small minority of cases that 
wet-nursing is possible. 

We come, then, to artificial feeding. If the child must 
be brought up by hand, it should be fed with warm milk, 
properly diluted, out of a bottle. No farinaceous sub- 
stance whatever, no " thickening " of any kind, should 
enter into the composition of an aliment destined for a 
young infant ; the infant is as yet wholly unprovided 
with the physiological machinery requisite for the diges- 
tion of starchy foods : these are far worse than useless. 



ON THE DIET OF INFANTS. 73 

The most important question is — what kind of milk ? 
Cow's milk is the most easily procured and, on the whole, 
the best adapted. It differs from human milk in con- 
taining more casein, more butter, and more saline matter, 
but less water and less sugar. The difficulties are for the 
most part met by adding to cow's milk water and sugar. 
For a month it is well to give equal parts of milk and 
water, with a small lump of white sugar added to the 
quantity necessary for each meal ; after the infant is a 
month old two parts of milk should be added to one part 
of water. All care should be exercised to obtain uni- 
formity of the milk ; as far as possible it should come 
from one cow ; all vessels containing it should be kept 
scrupulously clean, and the slightest souring should be 
avoided. The use of condensed or Swiss milk prevents 
the danger of souring and of contamination with germs 
of recent infectious disease ; it is, however, too sweet for 
continuous use, though it may be given with advantage 
till the infant is three or four months old — that is, in 
cases in which artificial nourishing is unavoidable.* 
Asss milk is thinner than human milk ; it contains more 
water, more sugar, and more saline matters, but only 
about half as much casein and butter. Goafs milk 
closely resembles human milk, but is more variable 
and has a peculiar odour, t Very little water should be 
added, about four per cent., to make it suitable for the 
infant. In the dilution of all milk for the infant, very 
pure (distilled or boiled) water should be used. 

The Aylesbury Dairy Company supply an artificial 
human milk, carefully prepared to resemble human milk 
as closely as possible. 

° See Index for " Objections to Condensed Milk." 

f See Index for " Analyses of different kinds of Milk/' 



74 ON THE DIET OF INFANTS. 

The diluted milk is to be given by means of the feed- 
ing bottle, which should be kept scrupulously clean. 
Each time the nipple should be examined to see that it 
" draws " easily before it is given to the infant. Directly 
after use the bottle and tube should be rinsed out and 
then placed in a vessel of clean cold water, in which a 
pinch of carbonate of soda has been dissolved. It is well 
to use two bottles, so that one remains in the weak soda 
solution while the other is in use. 

While the baby is under a month old the quantity for 
a meal should be half the ordinary feeding-bottleful ; 
afterwards the bottle nearly filled. It is estimated that 
a nursing mother furnishes her infant with from one to 
two quarts of milk daily. The quantity of artificial 
milk (of the proper dilution for age) should at first be 
about a quart, afterwards rather more. 

Although complete suckling by the mother is the best 
possible plan, there is no insuperable objection to partial 
suckling. This is decidedly to be preferred to completely 
artificial feeding where the health of the mother permits 
it. The ancient objection of mixing milks is, for the 
most part, a bugbear. Where the maternal supply is 
short in quantity it is a very good plan to advise that a 
good draught of milk be taken by the mother each time 
shortly before putting the child to the breast. If still 
the supply be insufficient, or there be evidence that the 
mother's milk disagrees, the animal milk substitutes may 
be given, at first to the partial exclusion of the mother's 
milk. Before concluding, however, that the mother's 
milk is wholly unsuitable, it is advisable to make many 
trials — let complete abstention be a "dernier ressort." 
Hygienic, dietetic, or medicinal treatment of the mother 
may overcome great difficulties. 



ON THE DIET OF INFANTS. 75 

At the age of seven months the infant begins to require 
something more than is afforded by the maternal milk ; 
the capability of digesting starchy foods now commences ; 
the question of thickening the milk food by some fari- 
naceous substance has to be considered. The substances 
most commonly employed are arrowroot and the various 
forms of corn flour, wheat flour, lentil flour, bread, 
biscuits, and farinaceous food artificially prepared for 
digestion, such as the malted foods. 

Of these it is to be borne in mind that arrowroot 
and the various corn flours, consisting almost entirely 
of starch, have scarcely any nutritive value whatever. 
They are sometimes useful as demulcents, but not as 
foods; when given in early infancy they are often pro- 
vocative of diarrhoea, the intestines being irritated by 
the undigested starch. 

Wheat-flour contains, besides starch, a considerable 
proportion of nutritious (nitrogenous) principles. More- 
over, it is rich in alkaline and earthy phosphates, which 
are of high value. The fine white flour is far inferior 
to the "entire wheat flour" obtained by pulverising 
the vhoU of the grain. So prepared the ftjr is richer 
in phosphates and gluten, and contains besides a va- 
luable digesting ferment — cerealin. Baked wheat-flour 
when the infant is seven months old may be used to 
slightly thicken the milk. It is advisable, however, occa- 
sionally, to substitute isinglass or gelatine for the thicken- 
ing material for it is very easy for the child to get more 
farinaceous food than it can digest. Lentil-flour is the 
basis of many of the advertised foods ; it is of high 
nutritive value and is of especial usefulness in infants 
whose tendency is to constipation. 

Cooked wheaten-flour in the form of bread or biscuits 



76 ON THE DIET OF INFANTS. 

may be used as the thickening material, great care being 
taken that a very uniform, creamy mixture is made, 
thin enough to pass through a fine sieve. Robb's biscuits 
deservedly enjoy a considerable popularity. 

A very valuable agent is Nestle's milk-food: this, 
which is in the form of a powder, is a combination of 
milk and farinaceous food. The milk, obtained from 
the cows of a fertile district of Switzerland, is carefully 
evaporated and mingled with farinaceous food and some 
sugar. It is imported in tins. The preparation of it as 
a food for infants is very simple, for a tablespoonf ul is 
merely to be mixed up with water and boiled for a 
few minutes. For infants who are just becoming able 
to digest farinaceous food it is very valuable. 

The malted foods have had a very considerable trial, 
and, according to many, are of a very high value. These 
were introduced by Liebig for the purpose of presenting 
to the infant elements of nutrition which should ulti- 
mately resemble those contained in the milk of the 
mother. The farinaceous food is so acted upon by matt 
that its starch is transformed into soluble dextrine and 
glucose — it is, in fact, artificially digested. Whether 
this is, on the whole, preferable to a form of food 
which proximately, if not ultimately, more closely 
resembles the natural milk, is by no means certain ; but 
in some cases of difficulty where other foods have 
disagreed this has been successful.* 

The child, after having been partially weaned by the 
use of some of the foods described, should be wholly weaned 
between the ages of nine and twelve months. No child 
should be at the breast after it is twelve months old. 

See Index for " Malted Foods." 



THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS. 77 



FOOD FOR A CHILD ABOUT EIGHTEEN MONTHS OLD. 

Dr. West, Consulting Physician to the Hospital for 
Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, in a letter to the 
author advises as follows for a child about eighteen 
months old : " Three meals, and one supplement of beef- 
tea or milk and a biscuit, either between breakfast and 
dinner, or just before bedtime if the child takes little 
at its last meal. Whether meat once or twice a day 
must depend on whether appetite is good. I should say 
that two ounces of cooked meat daily would be sufficient up to 
two and a half years. An egg is hardly an adequate sub- 
stitute for the meat. If given for dinner it is best French 
fashion, a poached egg, in beef tea or soup, or else fol- 
lowed by maccaroni and gravy, or met pudding made 
as follows : equal parts of suet, bread crumbs, and flour, 
mixed with milk {no egg), boiled thoroughly, but not tied 
up tight. 

" In the form of soup : the various vegetable soups with 
vegetables strained out, or purees of carrot, potato, or 
turnip. Bread sauce is good and popular with children. 
Roast apple, stewed pear, or apple out of a tart are good, 
if there is no disposition to either flatulence or diarrhoea. 
Grapes and oranges quite ripe, or still better, orange juice, 
are all suitable. I don't know that there is anything 
else to observe." 



THE GENEKAL MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS. 

The following rules, drawn up by a Committee of the 
Obstetrical Society appointed to consider the causes and 
prevention of infant mortality, were revised by the 



78 THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS. 

Council, and axe inserted here by special permission of 
the Society : — 

Washing. Cleanliness is of vital importance to the 
health of all children. 

Healthy infants should have a warm bath night and 
morning. 

The body should be gently cleansed from head to foot 
with a sponge or flannel, and then quickly dried with a 
soft warm towel. 

After three or four months the heat of the water should 
be gradually lowered, but it is not advisable to use quite 
cold water for young children. 

Clothing. The clothing of infants should be light, 
soft and warm, and arranged so as not to interfere with 
the free play of their limbs. All tight bandaging should 
be avoided. 

The common practice of keeping the arms, shoulders, 
and legs of infants and children bare is hurtful. Chil- 
dren bear cold less well than grown-up people, and 
should be warmly clad, with the exception of the head. 

Ventilation. Pure fresh air is of extreme importance 
to children. The rooms in which children sleep should 
be as large and airy as possible, not overcrowded, and 
the windows should be opened freely and frequently. 

Sleep. Unless the weather be very cold, or the infant 
be premature or feeble, it is desirable that it should, from 
an early period, sleep away from the mother or nurse, 
in a cradle or cot, care being taken that it is warmly 
covered. 

For the first few months a healthy infant will naturally 
spend the greater part of its time in sleep. 

Up to three years of age a mid-day sleep is beneficial. 



THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS. 79 

In sleeping, as in feeding, regularity is of the utmost 
importance, and the infant should be put to bed at stated 
times. 

Infants should be put directly into their cot or cradle, 
and not got into the habit of being nursed to sleep in 
the arms. 

All soothing medicines, cordials, spirits, or sleeping 
drops, should be strictly avoided, as likely to do much 
harm. Nothing of this sort should be given except under 
medical advice. 

Air and Exercise. In fine weather the child should 
be taken out at least twice a day, care being taken that it is 
sufficiently clothed in winter. In warm summer weather 
the more it is in the open air the better, taking care to 
protect the head from the sun. 

Feeding. Nothing is more important in the bringing 
up of children than the careful management of their 
feeding. Carelessness or errors in feeding cause a large 
proportion of the illnesses and deaths of young children. 

Suckling. — Nature provides breast milk as the proper 
food for an infant, and suckling is by far the best 
way of feeding it. 

Provided the mother or wet nurse has plenty of milk, 
and is in good health, an infant requires and should have 
no other food but the breast milk until about the sixth 
month. 

The milk itself, for the first few days, acts as a laxa- 
tive, and no other aperient is necessary. 

Should the formation of the milk be delayed, a little 
cow's milk, diluted with an equal quantity of warm 
water, and slightly sweetened, may be given until the 
mother is ready to nurse. 

The infant should, for the first six weeks, be put 



80 THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS. 

to the breast at regular intervals of two hours during 
the day. During the night it requires to be fed less 
often. As it gets older it does not require to be fed so 
frequently. 

An infant soon learns regular habits as to feeding. 
It is a great mistake, and bad both for the mother and 
child, to give the breast whenever it cries, or to let it be 
always sucking, particularly at night. This is a common 
cause of wind, colic, and indigestion. 

How a Nursing Mother or Wet Nurse should be 
FED.— A nursing woman ought to live generously and 
well, but not grossly. She may take porter or ale, in 
moderation, with her meals. It is a common mistake 
for wet nurses to live too well, and this often causes 
deranged digestion in the child. 

Should a nursing woman suffer from dizziness, dim- 
ness of sight, much palpitation and shortness of breath, 
or frequent night sweats, it is a sign that suckling 
disagrees with her, and that she should cease to 
nurse. 

Mixed Feeding, when the Mother has not enough 
Milk. — When the mother has not enough milk to 
nourish the child, other food may be given, especially 
during the night. This should consist of the best milk, 
with one-third the quantity of warm water added.* 

This plan of combining breast-feeding with bottle- 
feeding is better than bringing up the child by hand 
alone. 

Weaning. — The child should not be weaned suddenly, 
but by degrees, and, as a rule, it should not be allowed 
to have the breast after the ninth month. 

After the child has cut its front teeth it should 
* See Index for " Artificial Human Milk. 1 ' 



THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS. 81 

have one or two meals a day of some light food, 
such as bread and milk or nursery biscuits ; and 
these may be gradually increased until the child is 
weaned. 

When the child is about from seven to ten months 
old, according to its strength, it may have one meal a 
day of broth or beef tea, with crumb of bread soaked 
in it, or it may have the yolk of an egg lightly 
boiled. 

When it is about a year and a half old it may 
have one meal a day of finely-minced meat ; but 
even then milk should form a large proportion of its 
diet. 

The Food of Grown-up People bad for Children. — 
Meat, potatoes, and food such as grown-up people eat, 
are often given to young infants. This kind of food, 
and all stimulants, are entirely unsuitable, and are com- 
mon causes of diarrhoea and other troubles. 

Hand-feeding. — If the infant must be brought up by 
hand, the chief rule to remember is, that the food should 
resemble, as closely as possible, the milk provided for it 
by nature. 

Milk, and milk only, should be used for this purpose. 
Asses' or goats' milk is best, but cows' milk will in 
general do sufficiently well. 

Two-thirds pure and fresh milk, with one-third the 
quantity of hot water added to it, the whole being 
slightly sweetened, should be used. 

A table-spoonful of lime-water may often, with great 
advantage, be added to the milk instead of an equal 
quantity of warm water. 

The milk should be given from a feeding-bottle, which 
should be emptied and rinsed out after every meal, and 

G 



82 THE WEIGHT OF INFANTS. 

the tube and cork, or teats, kept in water when not 
in use. Perfect cleanliness is most important, other- 
wise the milk may turn sour and disagree with the 
child. 

The child should be fed regularly, just as if it was 
suckled; and it is a bad habit to give it the bottle 
merely to keep it quiet. 

Milk diet alone should, as a rule, be given until the 
child begins to cut its teeth, when other food may be 
gradually commenced, as recommended under the head 
of " Suckling." When milk is found to disagree, other 
food should be given under medical advice. 

Most of the mortality from hand- feeding arises from 
the use of arrow-root, corn-flour, and other unsuitable 
kinds of food, which consist of starch alone, and contain 
no proper nourishment, and should not be used as sub- 
stitutes for milk.* 



In his new work on Legal Medicine, Dr. Charles 
Meymott Tidy, states as the result of an elaborate in- 
vestigation of the subject that — " In most cases a 
considerable diminution in the weight of a child occurs 
shortly after birth. This rule in healthy children, born 
of healthy mothers, is almost universal. Occasionally 
the weight will remain stationary, and even increase 
slightly during the first day ... in such case the 
diminution in weight will occur on the second or third 
day. This decrease may be taken to be from 30 to 100 
grammes (roughly from one to four ounces), during the 
first day, and the total decrease about one-fourteenth 

* See Dr. Sansom's Paper, p. 71 ; Dr. West's Letter, p. 77 ; 
Special Recipes, Chapter IX. ; and on " Fat and Starch in the 
Nutrition of Children," p. 134. 



QUANTITY OF FOOD REQUIRED BY INFANTS. 83 

of the child's weight at birth. ... As regards the 
after-increase, it may be taken that in sixty per cent, 
the weight begins to increase about the fourth day, and 
that on the tenth day the children will have the same 
or a slightly greater weight than at birth. In some 
cases, however, a considerably longer period elapses 
before the birth- weight is reached. . . . 

" The increase in a child's weight (after the primary 
decrease), should be progressive. During the first five 
months, twenty to thirty grammes per day (308 to 462 
grains), or say 175 grammes (2,700*60 grains) per week 
and during the succeeding seven months 10 to 15 
grammes (154*32 to 231*48 grains) per day, may be re- 
garded as proof that the child is thriving. At five 
months, therefore, the child should weigh twice as much 
as it did at birth ; and at sixteen months, double what it 
did at five months. 

" Bouchard considers that a child should imbibe 630 
grammes (about 22£ ozs.) per day of milk, during the 
first month ; 700 (nearly 25 ozs.) during the second ; 840 
(rather over 29 j ozs.) during the third ; and 950 (about 
33£ ozs.) during the fourth month. 

" It is certain, that as a child grows up, its stature will 
depend on the work to which it is subjected, the air it 
has to breathe, and the food given it to eat." 



g2 



84 



Chapter V. 

ON THE WHOLESOMENESS AND DIGESTI- 
BILITY OF VAKIOUS ARTICLES OF FOOD 
AND ON THE MODES OF COOKING IN COM- 
MON USE. 

Beef and Mutton, and some General Directions. — Cutting-up the 
Food. — Veal and Lamb. — Pork. — Ham and Bacon. — Poultry, 
Game, Wild Fowl. — Venison and Hare. — Rabbit. — Fish. — 
Shell Fish. — Wholesomeness and Digestibility of Various 
Articles of Food : Bread ; Cheese and Cream Cheese ; Milk ; 
Vegetables. 

Beef and Mutton, and some General Directions. — 
A healthy stomach will generally digest either of these 
with ease, but a stronger digestive power as regards meat 
is required, as a rule, for beef than for mutton. There 
are exceptions to this, however, and much depends on 
the quality of the meat, some beef being easier of diges- 
tion than some mutton (assuming the cooking to be 
equally good in both cases). 

There are peculiarities of stomach with regard to 
"flavours" which need consideration— and it may be 
found that, whereas the solid inside- meat of either beef or 
mutton can be digested easily, the stomach is " upset " if 
the more specially flavoured parts are eaten, and this 
will occur sometimes with mutton and not with beef, and 
vice versd. This remark, applies to nearly all " flavoury " 
foods ; it is partly explained by the fact that " flavours " 
are so often dependent upon volatile and empyreumatic 



BEEF AND MUTTON, AND SOME GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 85 

oils, which are apt to regurgitate. But in the case of 
meats, when roasted, baked, fried, or grilled, the surface 
is apt to be over-done, and the action of the heat on the 
superficial fat produces acrid compounds, consisting of 
acrolein and fatty acids; and it is these which disagree, 
although the meat itself may digest and agree. 

This difficulty does not occur with boiled meats. An- 
other point, and one of great importance, which applies to 
all solid food, is the way in which it is cut up. It must 
be taken for granted that, with the best of teeth and 
the greatest care, portions of solid food will occasionally 
be swallowed imperfectly masticated, that is, not con- 
verted into a pulp ; but when we consider how often 
teeth are defective and how carelessly people eat while 
talking, as a matter of fact, ill-masticated food is swal- 
lowed at every meal Now nearly all the difficulty may 
be avoided by a judicious mode of cutting up the food 
while eating. 

It must be remembered that the essential point to 
be obtained, is that the digestive juices in the stomach 
shall penetrate to the centre of every particle of food, 
and this within a certain time, limited to a few hours 
at the outside. If the food is cut up into dice-like 
cubes it will often be impossible for the centre to be 
reached before the stomach has expended its digestive 
force, and thus a number of undigested particles will be 
left, either to encumber the stomach, when it ought to be 
clean and ready to prepare for the next meal; or, if they 
have passed out of the stomach, to call upon the second 
processes of digestion to attempt to do what ought to 
have been completed in the stomach ; or to irritate the 
intestines by throwing into them an abnormal quantity 
of waste. The same thing occurs, though to a less extent 



86 THE PROPER MODE OF CUTTING UP FOOD. 

with meats and other foods when their tissue is hng- 
fibred if they are cut in thick slices " the way of the 
grain." But if the food is thinly sliced "across the 
grain '' every fibre is presented to the stomach juices in 
a thin section with both its ends exposed, and it is then 
quickly and easily saturated by the juices of the stomach, 
favoured by capillary attraction in the direction of the 
fibres. This is really the great secret in enabling the 
stomach to deal with solid food — Cut everything 

ACROSS THE GRAIN AND IN THIN SLICES WHILE EATING. 

It must be remembered, however, that one object of 
mastication is insalivation, and no cutting up can entirely 
take the place of a sufficient mastication as far as insali- 
vation is concerned. But this is of less importance 
with animal than with vegetable foods ; and it so happens 
that the quickest eaters and worst masticators are those 
whose saliva is abundant and readily poured out; 
because a deficiency of saliva necessitates better masti- 
cation to render the food moist enough to swallow. 
Advantage may be taken of this fact when people are 
inclined to swallow their food half masticated, by giving 
it to them dry. In either case, the thin cross-grained 
slice will be most rapidly saturated with saliva and 
soonest fit for swallowing. 

Another point of great importance in facilitating the 
digestion of hard and solid substances, is the addition of 
a proper quantity of water to assist the stomach juices 
in dissolving them. 

Very few articles of food are soluble in alcohol, and 
many are rendered less soluble by its presence. It is 
not sufficient, therefore, to drink alcohol with meals ; a 
certain quantity of water must be taken whether alcohol 
is also taken or not. On the other hand, it is a mistake 



VEAL AND LAMB. 87 

to deluge the stomach with fluid during digestion, for 
this dilutes the natural juices to such an extent that 
they lose their solvent power. 

Different persons have different requirements in this 
respect, according to the power of secreting saliva and 
gastric fluids freely or scantily, and in a concentrated or 
diluted state. But, on an average, about half to three 
quarters of an imperial pint of water is a proper quantity 
to drink while eating an ordinary dinner, and this is 
better sipped during the meal than drunk at a draught 
either before or after it. 

Veal and Lamb. Both are the flesh of young animals, 
which is less nutritive and less invigorating than that of 
full grown animals, as it contains more gelatine and less 
fibrine, and, as a rule, it is less easily digested. But 
lamb is more wholesome to most stomachs than veal. 
Boast veal especially is far more unwholesome than 
roast lamb, and often acts almost like a poison to delicate 
stomachs. This appears to be due in chief part to the 
quantity of the fat, which, when over-heated on the 
outside of the meat, develops those acrid compounds, 
acrolein and fatty acids, referred to under the head of 
" Beef and Mutton," and these more deeply saturate and 
impregnate the young meat than the firmer flesh of older 
animals. ' Thus it is more difficult to avoid them by the 
expedient of cutting oft* the outside of the meat. It is 
very rare for boiled veal to disagree to the same extent 
as roast, and this is partly because boiling does not 
generate these poisonous compounds, and partly because 
it is more suited to the treatment of the abundant 
gelatinous constituents of young meat. As a rule, 
roast veal should be avoided by those with delicate 
stomachs. 



88 HAM AND BACON. 

Pork is the flesh of young pig, and what I have said 
of veal applies in the main to pork, so far as nutritive 
value is concerned, but as there is more fat in pork than 
in veal, all the dangers of producing poisonous com-; 
pounds, by roasting, baking and frying, are propor- 
tionately increased. The deepest parts of the lean of 
roast pork (if cooked through, so as to make sure of 
killing any parasites that may infest it, and to which 
pork is especially liable) may be eaten with impunity 
by most persons ; but unfortunately this is not the cut 
generally liked, the browned outside being the favourite 
part, and the most dangerous. The younger the pork 
the less nutritive it is, but there is less chance of para- 
sites, and in sucking pig this is reduced to a minimum. 
Now the objections to pork apply in a very much less 
degree to well-boiled pork. But boiled pork means 
salted pork, which raises a new difficulty. (See Cook- 
ing, &c.) 

Ham and Bacon. These are the flesh of older animals 
than pork, and consequently, if digested, they are more 
nutritious ; but as they are s hardened by deep " curing," 
they are more difficult of digestion in their lean parts, 
and what I have said under the head of " Beef and 
Mutton" on the importance of "cutting thin slices across 
the grain," applies in its fullest force to these, and to all 
meats hardened by curing and pickling. The great value 
of bacon is as a store of fat in a compact and agreeable 
form (See Fat), and when toasted in slices, which secures 
thorough cooking, the fat seldom disagrees even with 
delicate stomachs. This is not the case with the toasted 
lean. Much of the objection to cured meat is removed 
in the case of tongues in consequence of their peculiar 
" grain," which enables the digestive juices to penetrate 




POULTRY, GAME, WILD-FOWL AND OTHER BIRDS. 89 

them easily ; and many hams and gammons of bacon 
which have been well cured, well soaked, and skilfully 
cooked, and then thinly sliced across the grain, can be 
well digested by even weak stomachs ; but all these 
provisions are necessary. 

Poultry, Game, Wild-fowl and other Birds. Ex- 
cept when the flesh is poisoned by what they have eaten, 
the flesh of all birds is safe for food. Great differences, 
however, exist as to digestibility and wholesomeness, and 
these depend mainly upon three qualities: — 1. The 
amount and quality of fat. 2. The length and size of 
fibre. 3. The density or closeness of the fibre. Abundant, 
fresh air and exercise diminish fat and improve its 
quality, and render the fibre of the flesh shorter and 
closer; whereas want of air and exercise increase the 
quantity and deteriorate the quality of the fat, and 
produce a loose, long-fibred flesh. 

The fat of all birds is difficult of digestion by weak 
stomachs, and becomes more apt to disagree in propor- 
tion as it is more oily in quality, and when over-heated 
readily produces those irritating compounds (acrolein 
and fatty acids) already spoken of under the head of 
meats; and as the depth of the lean is not great, a 
large proportion of it becomes saturated with the over- 
heated surface-fat and participates in its unwhole- 
someness. This disadvantage of course increases with 
the smallness of the bird in proportion to its fat The 
consequence of this combination of circumstances is that 
tamed and fattened birds or " poultry " are less nutritious, 
less easily digested, and more apt to disagree than wild 
unfattened birds or « game ;" this is illustrated in the case 
of pheasants, which are rendered much less wholesome 
in the present day, when they are coddled and fed like 



90 FISH. 

tame poultry, than they used to be when they were left 
in a wild and natural condition, and in the case of barn- 
door fowls, which are more wholesome than those 
carefully fattened in yards and cages. In large ppultry, 
such as turkey, the deeper lean is almost out of reach of 
the poisonous influence of the outside over-heated skin 
and fat, and would be very wholesome, were it not for 
the bad effects of inordinate over-feeding, with want of 
exercise, which impregnates all the tissues with oil. 
Water-birds even when wild become more deeply im- 
pregnated with fat than land birds, and are proportion- 
ately more apt to disagree. 

Venison and Hare rank with game, and the same 
observations apply to them as to game birds. 

Babbit, stands rather alone. The fibre is both long 
and dense. It is very quickly hardened by careless 
cootfcg. It re,*™ Lling^d disint^g, by 
gradual stewing commenced at a low temperature, and 
careful slicing across the grain, to make it digestible. It 
is very apt to disagree from the difficulty of securing 
these conditions, without which it often absolutely 
resists thorough digestion by weak stomachs. If used 
for invalids it should be cut up and put into a jar with 
just enough cold water to cover it, then tied down and 
placed in a very slow oven till thoroughly cooked, 
when it may be turned out and eaten with its own 
gravy* 

Fish. Fish differ considerably in their digestibility 
and nutritive value, in consequence of differences in the 
quantity of fat and the mode in which it is distributed ; 
and in the colour of their blood and the consequent quality 
of their flesh. Salmon is a red-blooded fish, its fat is 

° See Special Recipes. 



FISH. 91 

distributed much as in red-blooded mammalia, and it 
approaches in nutritive value and digestibility more 
nearly to meat than most fish. 

It is a very wholesome form of food, and when it 
disagrees it is usually either from its being eaten too 
freely, forgetting how nearly it represents an equal 
weight of meat; or from neglect in cutting it up in 
thin slices across the grain while eating, a neglect 
which is promoted by the readiness with which the 
flesh separates into dense flakes convenient for putting 
into the mouth, and by its being eaten either with a 
blunt silver knife or with a fork only ; or from an 
inordinate quantity of fat being swallowed, in consequence 
of the large proportion of fat contained in those parts 
of the fish usually thought to have the most delicate 
flavour. 

If these points are borne in mind, salmon, in proper 
season, may be eaten with advantage by many delicate 
persons who otherwise would be obliged to refrain 
from it. 

The herring, pilchard, sprat, mackerel, and eel, like 
salmon, have their fat distributed through the tissues, 
as in the mammalia ; but they differ much in the propor- 
tion of fat which they contain, and must be selected for 
different stomachs very much in proportion to the power 
of digesting and assimilating fat. Of these, eels are the 
richest in fat, containing from 14 to 24 per cent., while 
mackerel only contains about 7, and salmon and trout 
from 5 to 6 per cent. 

Most other fish, as whiting, flounder, brill, turbot, 
haddock, cod, sole, plaice, are very deficient in fat — soles, 
for example, contain only 0*248 per cent. — although it 
is often stored in large quantities in their livers, as in 



92 SHELL FISH. 

the cod. But in addition to this difference in the pro- 
portion of fat contained in different fish, great varieties 
exist in the closeness and toughness of their tissues. In 
cod, for example, the flesh is very dense and often tough 
and " woolly," when it is very difficult of digestion and 
should not be touched by those with weak stomachs. At 
all times cod, and other hard, dense-fibred fish, require 
careful cooking, and should be cut up in thin slices across 
the grain (as directed for salmon), not eaten in flakes 
with a fork only. The fat of fish is of an oily quality 
(see Solid and Liquid Fats, Chap. VII.), and cannot, 
even when abundant, take the place in nutrition of the 
solid fat of meat ; and this, and the great deficiency of 
fat in many fish, make a fish diet unwholesome unless 
properly admixed with other foods. 

But, as an adjunct to other forms of animal food in a 
mixed diet, fish occupies an important place ; and the 
lighter sorts of fish, such as whiting and sole, if judiciously 
cooked, are valuable in the sick room. For this purpose 
boiling is the safest mode of cooking, but frying may be 
permitted if the outside is rejected. If boiled fish is 
thought too insipid, an excellent plan is to finely mince 
the boiled fish with a little suet, bread crumbs, boiled 
potato, salt and pepper, make it into cakes, and brown 
them in the oven. 

Shell Fish. Lobsters* and crayfish consist principally 
of, dense, tough muscular tissue, and are extremely 
difficult of digestion to most stomachs. The difficulty 
may, however, be greatly diminished by finely mincing 
the flesh across the grain before eating it. The hard 
parts of crab are open to the same objections as those of 
lobster, but there is more non-muscular material in the 

* See Special Recipes for Lobster Salad. 



BREAD. 93 

crab, which is easier of digestion, though apt to disagree 
with delicate stomachs from containing certain flavouring 
properties. Oysters differ greatly from lobsters, crayfish 
and crabs, being principally gelatinous (see Appendix 
on the Digestibility of Gelatine-yielding Tissues) and 
fatty, and when the beard or gill and the hard muscle 
by which the fish is attached to the shell are rejected, 
they form a digestible and fairly nutritious article of diet 
which generally agrees well with weak stomachs, 
especially when eaten raw,* and they would be still more 
wholesome if minced or masticated instead of being 
swallowed in the usual way. 

The hard roe of fish is very nutritious, and when pro- 
perly cooked is usually digested with ease, and forms a 
very useful relish. The hard roe of a Yarmouth bloater 
laid open and nicely toasted, will often get down a slice 
of toast, or of brown bread and butter, when the appetite 
is bad ; and even when preserved, in the form of caviare 
or of potted cod's roe, may be used in small quantities to 
induce the stomachs of persons with educated tastes to 
take other food. 

Bread. — White; whole-meal; wheat-meal — "Bread" 
(says Miss Yates, Hon. Secretary to the Bread Reform 
League), " being the staple food of a large proportion of 
mankind, should approach, as nearly as possible, to what 
is required in a complete food. 

" In white bread the nitrogenous and mineral sub- 
stances are so deficient that it cannot possibly maintain 
life. It is, therefore, only suitable when a large propor- 
tion of animal food is used in the diet, and even then its 
constipating qualities render it disadvantageous. 

* The peculiar digestibility of the oyster is destroyed by cook- 
ing, but not by warming to a temperature below 100° Faht. 



94 BREAD. 

" Whole-meal bread, made from the whole of the grain, 
contains every element necessary to sustain life, and with 
the addition of fat and fresh vegetables can maintain 
healthy life (see Appendix on Bread Diet and Typhus 
Fever); but owing to the mechanical action of the 
sharp edges and points, left by a bad process of grinding, 
it has an irritating effect on the alimentary canal which 
makes its general and constant use objectionable. 

"Wheat-meal bread, made from wheat which has been 
properly cleansed, decorticated, and ground in a fine granular 
form, as directed by Dr. Campbell Morfit, contains all the 
nourishment of wheat in an easily digestible form, and is, 
therefore, a much more wholesome food than white bread 
and better adapted for a general food than coarsely 
ground whole-meal bread. 

" One pound of whole meal contains double the amount 
of lime, and nearly three times as much phosphoric 
acid as a pound of white flour. In addition to this 
it contains a large proportion of other mineral substances 
requisite for the nutrition of the body and a larger 
proportion of valuable nitrogenous substances. It will 
be therefore understood how valuable this bread must 
be as an article of diet to growing children, and how 
essential it is that the poor, who are unable to afford 
expensive animal food, should be able to obtain it. There 
is good reason for believing that children fed principally 
on white bread are liable to various forms of ill-health, 
consequent on an insufficiency of lime and other mineral 
substances in their food. The adoption of a wholesome 
nourishing bread would better enable the poor to resist 
the effects of the various depressing influences by which 
they are so apt to be surrounded." 



CHEESE AND CREAM-CHEESE. 95 

Dr. Pavy, in a paper " On the Dietetics of Bread," 
supporting the views promulgated by Miss Yates, 
says : — 

"Fine flour contains 10*46 per cent, of nitrogenous 
matter, and only 079 of mineral matter. * Coarse mid- 
dlings/— which comes from the outer part of the grain, 
and would be excluded from white flour but included in 
'whole-wheat meal/ — contains 15*5 per cent, of nitro- 
genous matter as against 10*5 per cent, of nitrogenous 
matter in the centre of the grain ; and of mineral matter, 
instead of 0*79 per cent, as in white flour, contains 2*90 
per cent. The outer part of the grain, you thus see, is 
incomparably richer in mineral matter, and is to a marked 
extent richer in nitrogenous matter, than the central 
part of the grain, and so far it shows that wheat meal 
is much more valuable as an article of diet than the white 
flour derived from the centre of the grain. 

"It is self-evident from these facts, that an article 
derived from the whole grain, or that which includes 
the outer part as well as the centre, is better adapted for 
our requirements than an article derived from the centre 
of the grain/'* 

Cheese and Cream Cheese. " The time required for 
the digestion of cheese varies with ite age and as the fat 
more or less abounds; and, in a fairly good cheese of 
medium age it is from three and a half to four hours. 
New cheese and poor cheese require a longer time for 
digestion, inasmuch as they are masticated with greater 
difficulty. Old poor cheese also requires a longer time, for 
it is so hard as to be almost incapable of solution in the 

* For further information, see the publications of the " Bread 
Reform League/' especially those by Dr. Pavy and Professor 
Church, in 1881. 



96 MILK. 

gastric juices, and if a good cheese is old and greatly 
decayed it plays the part of an irritant in the stomach, 
which may cause a form of indigestion, and be itself 
hurried through the stomach into the intestines so rapidly 
as to almost prevent its digestion. It is probable that the 
establishment of cheese factories in America and in this 
country will tend to produce cheese of more uniform 
quality. There are now nearly 2,000 such factories in 
the United States, and three or four have been opened in 
England during the last five years. It is necessary for 
their success that there should be good pasture land and 
plenty of water in the vicinity, and that the farmers 
should be able to take their milk to the factory while it 
is yet fresh and new. The manufacture of cheese by 
small farmers is not always effected in the most cleanly 
manner, and with the uncertainty of seasons, it is not 
always lucrative, . . . Cream cheese is more diges- 
tible than ordinary cheese, because it is softer and may 
be readily masticated, and has a less proportion of 
casein. It is probable that its digestion is effected in 
from two to three hours." (Dr. Edward Smith, " On 
Foods/ 9 pp. 125—127.) 

Milk. " There is no milk which is so agreeable and so 
little disagreeable to the taste as cows' milk, for it has a 
fuller flavour than human milk, or that of the mare or 
ass, while it lacks the strong flavour of the milk of the 
buffalo or goat, and is not so surfeiting as that of the 
sheep. Some of these peculiarities in other kinds of milk 
depend upon the quantity of a nutritive material, 
which may be readily determined; but others, as the 
flavour of goats' and buffaloes' milk, depend upon 
an acid, which is not so easily measured and is not 
nutritious. 



KILE. 



97 



" The following is the chemical composition of several 
kinds of milk :* — 

TABLE IV. 





Speciflo 

Gravity 

1-000 


Water. 


Solids. 


Casein and 
Nitrogenous 
Compounds. 


Sugar. 


Fat. 


Salts. 




33*53 


84*49 


16-51 


3-61 


3-69 


5-68 


0-61 


Sheep . . 


40-98 


83-23 


16-77 


6-97 


3-94 


513 


0-71 


Mare . • . . 


33-74 


90-43 


9-57 


3-33 


3-27 


2-43 


0-52 




34-57 


89-00 


10-99 


3-56 


5-05 


1-85 


0-54 


Woman . . 


32-67 


88-90 


10-92 


3-92 


4-36 


2-66 


0-13 




33-38 


86-40 


13-59 


5-52 


3-80 


3-61 


0-66 



(€ 



The salts in cows' milk are as follows : — 



Percent. 
Phosphate of Lime . . 0*30 
„ „ Magnesium 0*06 
Iron . . . 0-007 



n 



» 



Percent. 

Chloride of Potassium . 017 

„ „ Sodium . . 0*03 

Free Soda 0-Q4 



" As milk is so essential a food for infants, and parti- 
cularly when the mother's milk cannot be obtained, it is 
desirable to prepare a kind which may resemble the latter 
in composition. (See Diet of Infants, p. 73.) Cows' 
milk differs from human milk chiefly in having a 
larger proportion of fat and casein, and a less pro- 
portion of sugar. If, therefore, a mixture is made of 
two-thirds of cows' milk and one-third of warm 
water, to which half an ounce of sugar of milk is 
added to the pint, we shall obtain a composition very 
similar to that of the mother's milk. If sugar of milk is 
not obtainable, it may be substituted by somewhat more 

* Analyses by Prof. Frankland somewhat differing from these 
have been recently (1881) published by the Aylesbury Dairy Com- 
pany. See Index. 

H 



98 VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 

than half the quantity of refined cane sugar. Asses' milk 
differs from human milk chiefly in having more sugar 
and less fat, so that whilst it is not equal to human milk 
as a nutrient, it is the best natural substitute for it ; 
but its use is recommended rather in cases of disease 
than of health, when it is desirable to modify the com- 
position of the mother's milk. Equal parts of asses' milk 
and cows' milk approach closely in composition to human 
milk."*— Dr. Edward Smith "On Foods," pp. 315, 316.t 

Vegetables and Fruits. J It has been stated (p. 63) 
that every complete diet must contain some potash- 
vegetable or fruit, and the following is a list of such 
articles of diet. (Table V.) They differ, however, greatly 
in wholesomeness and nutritive value, as will be seen 
by the analysis table. (Chapter II., Table I.) 

The points to be especially borne in mind to promote 
the digestibility of fruits, are, 1, to reject the skins, pips, 
and stones, and the cellular and woody materials such as 
form the " core " of apples and pears, and the segments 
of oranges and lemons. 2. In all the nut tribe, to reduce 
them to a pulp or to meal before they are swallowed. 
Thus, chestnuts baked quite to a meal are readily digested, 
and nuts beaten to a pulp in a mortar form a highly nu- 
tritious and digestible food, whereas both are exceedingly 
indigestible in their natural condition. 

With vegetables, great differences exist between such 
as may be classed as "green vegetables," — containing 

* See Condensed Milk, (Index), and Prof. Frankland's Analyses 
of Milk (Index). 

f It has been ascertained that the infants of ruminants "chew 
the cud 1 ' of the curds of milk. Hence the infants of non-rumi- 
nants are at a disadvantage in digesting the milk of ruminants. 

X For those vegetables and fruits which may be allowed in dia- 
betes, see Diet Table for Diabetes (Index). 



VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 



99 



large quantities of elastic, fibrous, and woody tissue, which 
are quite indigestible, — and the various sorts containing 
much starchy matter, which require thorough cooking to 
burst the cells of the starch and make it digestible. (See 
Special Recipes.) The latter are especially liable to be 
swallowed in lumps, the outside of which may be soft but 
the centre hard and quite impenetrable by the digestive 
fluids. To prevent this they should be crushed with a 
fork, a precaution which will enable many delicate persons 
to digest potatoes, carrots, and the like, who could not 
otherwise touch them with safety. 



TABLE V. 


List of Potash Vegetables and Fruits. 


Vegetables. 


Fruits. 


Asparagus. 


Apples. 


Broad Beans. 


Almonds. 


Brocoli. 


• Chestnuts. 


Carrot. 


Cherries. 


Cabbage. 


Currants. 


Celery. 


Dates. 


Cauliflower. 


Figs. 


Cress. 


Grapes. 


Cucumber. 


Gooseberries. 


Endive. 


Lemons. 


French Beans. 


Nuts and filberts 


Lettuce. 


Oranges. 


Mustard (green). 


Pears. 


Mushrooms. 


Pine Apples. 


Onions. 


Plums. 


Parsnip. 


Prunes. 


Peas (green). 


Raisins. 


Potato. 


Raspberries. 


Radish. 


Strawberries. 


Rhubarb. 


Walnuts. 


Spinach. 




Turnip. 




„ Tops. 




Watercress. 





H 2 



100 AVOID A MONOTONOUS DIET. 

In addition, however, to the question of actual digesti- 
bility, both vegetables and fruits may disagree from the 
essential oils which they contain, and upon which they 
depend in a great measure for their distinctive flavours. 
This kind of disagreement is of the least serious kind, 
consisting rather in unpleasant eructations than in the 
more distressing and dangerous symptoms due to masses 
of undissolved food. Stomachs have idiosyncrasies in 
this respect which must rather be individualised than 
classified. It may be stated, however, that when one 
species of the brassicaciae or cabbage tribe is found to 
disagree, the whole tribe will be also apt to do so, and 
this more and more in proportion as the essential oil is 
more abundant. For this reason they agree better when 
young than old, although this is also due to the smaller 
proportion of woody fibre and other indigestible tissue 
which they then contain. 

After all, — cooking, carving, cutting up, mastication, 
and careful rejection of indigestible parts while eating, 
will enable persons with weak digestions to vastly enlarge 
their usual list of permissible articles of diet, both animal 
and vegetable ; and it is to these precautions that I would 
especially direct their attention, for it is of the highest 
importance to avoid unnecessarily limiting the variety of food 
allowed to all persons, but especially to those of poor 
appetites and troublesome digestions. 

Monotonous, uninteresting meals, depress the spirits 
and are subversive of appetite, digestion and nutrition. 
(See Chapter VI.) 

Finally, nobody should take meals in solitude. Society, 
merry talking and laughter, are wonderful aids to appetite 
and digestion, and promote all the functions necessary to 
healthy nutrition. (See Meals, p. 40.) 



MODES OF COOKING. 101 

* 

MODES OF COOKING IN COMMON USE. 

Boiling, Boasting, Broiling, Baking, Frying, Stewing. 

Boiling. There is an art in cooking food in such a 
manner as to avoid, a& muck as possible, the loss of its 
nutritive principles. 

" If the object is to extract the goodness of the meat 
into the surrounding liquid, as in making soups, broths, 
etc., the articles should be minced or cut up finely, and 
placed in cold water. After soaking for a short time, 
heat should be applied, and the temperature gradually 
raised. For broths, no actual boiling is needed — it is 
desirable, indeed, that it should be avoided, so as not to 
consolidate and lose the albumen. For soups, however, 
prolonged boiling is necessary, in order fully to extract 
the gelatine." 

If the object is to retain the nutritive properties in the 
meat, an opposite plan must be adopted. " The piece of 
meat should be large, and it should be plunged suddenly 
into boiling water and the process of boiling briskly 
maintained for about five minutes. This coagulates the 
albuminous matter upon the surface, and leads to the 
formation of a more or less impermeable external layer, 
which precludes the escape of the juices from the substance 
of the meat. After this object has been fulfilled, instead 
of boiling being continued, a temperature of between 
160° and 170° Fahr. constitutes what is wanted ; and this 
degree should be maintained, until the process of cooking 
is completed. Cooked in this way, the central part of 
the meat remains juicy and tender, and possesses, in the 
highest degree, the properties of nutritiveness and 
digestibility. 



102 MODES OF COOKING. 

* Unless exposed throughout to the temperature named, 
the albuminous and colouring matters are not properly 
coagulated, and the meat presents a raw or under- 
dressed appearance. If exposed to a temperature much 
above 170°, the muscular substance ' shrinks and be- 
comes proportionately hard and indigestible. The usual 
fault committed in cooking meat, is keeping the water 
in which it is being boiled at too high a temperature 
after the first exposure to brisk ebullition is over. 

" Fish is rendered firm in proportion to the hardness of 
the water in which it is boiled. Hence, fish boiled in sea- 
water, or in water to which salt has been added, is firmer, 
and, at the same time, more highly flavoured, than when 
boiled in soft water, on account of the less solvent action 
exerted. 

" Upon the principle of endeavouring to retain, as far as 
practicable, the soluble constituents of an article of food, 
potatoes should be boiled in their skins, and the object 
aimed at is still further secured by the addition of a little 
salt to the water. By steaming instead of boiling the 
result is still more completely attained. 

" Boiled food is more insipid than food cooked in other 
ways. From the lower temperature employed, no empy- 
reumatic products are developed. Being more devoid of 
flavour, it is less tempting to the palate, but sits more 
easily on a delicate stomach 

" Roasting, should be conducted upon the same prin- 
ciple as boiling. In order, as far as possible, to retain the 
nutritive juices meat should first be subjected to a sharp 
heat. This leads to the formation of a coagulated layer 
upon the surface, which subsequently offers an impedi- 
ment to the escape of the fluid matter within. After a 
short exposure to a sharp heat, the meat should be 



MODES OF COOKING. 103 

removed to a greater distance from the fire, so as to 
allow a lower heat gradually to penetrate to the centre. 
In this way the albumen and colouring matters are 
coagulated without the fibrine being corrugated and 
hardened. . . . 

" On account of the greater heat employed, roasted meat 
is more savory than boiled. The surface also is more or 
less scorched, and a portion of the fat is melted and drops 
away in the form of dripping. Some of the fat like- 
wise, under a prolonged exposure to a strong heat, under- 
goes decomposition, attended with the production of fatty 
acids, and an acrid volatile product known as acrolein, 
which may cause derangement of a weak stomach. In 
boiling, the temperature is not sufficient to incur the risk 
of rendering the fat in a similar way obnoxious. 

"When properly roasted, the meat is juicy enough 
within to lead to the escape of a quantity of red gravy 
when the first cut is made into it. (See Wholesome- 
ness and Digestibility of various articles of food.) 

" Broiling, produces the same effect as roasting, but 
the proportion of scorched material is greater, on account 
of the relatively larger amount of surface exposed. The 
principle of cooking should be the same, in order to retain 
the central portion juicy. 

" Baking, renders meat more impregnated with empy- 
reumatic products, and therefore riLfor stronger for 5L 
stomach than any other process of cooking. The opera- 
tion being carried on in a confined space, the volatile fatty 
acids generated are prevented from escaping, and thus 
permeate the cooked articles. Meat cooked in this way is 
ill adapted for consumption where a delicate state of 
system exists. 

" Frying, is also an objectionable process of cooking for 



104 MODES OF COOKING. 

persons of weak digestive power. The heat is applied 
through the medium of boiling fat or oil. The article of 
food thus becomes more or less penetrated with fatty 
matter, which renders it to a greater extent than would 
otherwise be the case resistant to the solvent action of the 
watery digestive liquid secreted by the stomach. It is apt 
also to be impregnated with the fatty-acid products arising 
from the decomposition of the fat used in the process. 
These are badly tolerated by the stomach, and, whether 
generated in this way or when the food is in the act of 
undergoing digestion, appear to form the source of the 
gastric trouble known as heartburn. 

" Stewing places food in a highly favourable state for 
digestion. The articles to be cooked are just covered 
with water, and should be exposed to a heat sufficient 
only to allow a gentle simmering. A considerable portion 
of the nutritive matter passes into the surrounding liquid, 
which is consumed as well as the solid material. Properly 
cooked in this way, meat should be rendered sufficiently 
tender to break down under moderate pressure ; if boiling 
is allowed to occur, the meat becomes, instead, tough and 
hard. 

" By surrounding the vessel in which the article of food 
is contained with water so as to secure that no burning 
shall occur, meat may be stewed in its own vapour. For 
example, a chop or other piece of meat taken upon a small 
scale, may be placed in an ordinary preserve jar, and this 
tied over at the top, and partially immersed in water con- 
tained in a saucepan. The water in the saucepan is made 
to simmer, or gently boil ; and when the proper time has 
elapsed, the meat is found perfectly soft and tender, and 
surrounded by a liquor derived from the juice which has 
escaped during the process. Meat thus prepared is in 



MODES OF COOKING. 105 

an exceedingly suitable state for the convalescent and 
invalid." 

Hashing is the same process as stewing, only applied 
to previously cooked instead of fresh meat. 

" Soups and Bboths. The process of preparation is 
here directed to extracting the goodness from the articles 
employed, the reverse of that in the case of boiling. To 
accomplish what is aimed at in the most complete 
manner the article should be chopped or broken into 
fine pieces, and placed in cold water. After being allowed 
to macerate a short time — for the soluble constituents to 
become dissolved out — it is gradually heated to a point 
which should vary according to the product required. In 
the case of broths and beef -tea, which, properly, contain 
only the flavouring principle of meat — osmazome — and 
the soluble constituents with finely coagulated albumi- 
nous matter, all that is required is to produce gentle 
simmering, and this should be kept up for about half-an- 
hour. In the case of soups, a prolonged gentle boiling 
is required in order that the gelatine may be extracted, 
this being the principle which gives to soup its property 
of solidifying on cooling. Bones require boiling a 
longer time than meat. The chief principle they yield 
is gelatine, and its extraction is greatly facilitated by 
the bones being broken into fine fragments previous to 
being used.* 

"Salting, Pickling, and Smoking, .... may be 
alluded to here for the sake of stating that by their 
hardening action, they give an article a difficult diges- 
tibility, which cannot be overcome by cooking. ,, (Dr. 
Pavy, " On Food;* &c, 1874. ) 

In cooking food it is necessary to remember that there 

* See Appendix, " New Experiments on Gelatine." 



106 



MODES OF COOKING. 



is a considerable and unavoidable loss of weight; but 
the amount of this differs according to the mode of 
cooking. 

TABLE VI. 
Showing the loss of weight per cent, by Cooking. (Letheby.) 





Boiling. 


Baking. 


Boasting. 


Beef generally . . 
Mutton generally 
Legs of mutton.. .. 
Shoulder of mutton . . 
Loins of mutton 

Necks of mutton . . 

• 


20 per cent. 
20 „ 
20 „ 

24 „ 
30 „ 

25 „ 


29 per cent. 

31 „ 

32 ,, 
32 

33 „ 
32 „ 


31 per cent. 

35 „ 

33 „ 

34 „ 

36 „ 
34 „ 


Averages of all •• 


23 per cent. 


31 per cent. 


34 per cent. 



107 



Chapter VI. 
SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE* 

(See also " On Getting Fat and Getting Thin.") 

Principles upon which to Arrange the Diets of Disease. — Rules for 
Carrying out these Principles. — Examples of Diets for Con- 
sumption and for Diabetes. 

* 

This subject is one upon which it would be very easy to 
write a large book, but which is very difficult to treat in 
a short chapter. I must content myself, therefore, with 
condensing what I have to say into a few statements of 
opinion, avoiding all attempts at discussion, and if I 
appear to deliver my views dogmatically it is not because 
I feel at all inclined to dogmatise, but because I am pressed 
by the extent of the subject and the narrow limits of our 
space. 

At page 62, 1 have given " the Essentials of a Normal 
Diet " for health. The question now is, How ought these 
to be modified in disease ? It will be observed that these 
" Essentials of a Normal Diet " provide for the main- 
tenance of healthy nutrition in a " healthy adult man of 
average stature taking moderate exercise " ; and, for sim- 
plicity's sake, it will be the best to make all the follow- 
ing remarks apply to this supposed " adult man of average 
stature " under altered circumstances. 

The first and leading principle of diet in disease is, to 

* Substance of a Lecture delivered by the Author at the Royal 
Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, 1865. 



108 SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

provide for the maintenance of healthy nutrition, under 
the peculiar alterations of circumstances attendant upon 
disease. In other words, the diet of disease should 
be as nearly that of health as the altered conditions 
of the nutritive functions, and the altered conditions 
of the patient's life will allow ; the grand object 

■ 

being to keep up healthy nutrition of the whole 
organism. 

The true appreciation of this first principle, in its 
various bearings, will save us from running into either 
of those extremes which at different times have disfigured 
medical practice. We shall not be led to starve our 
patients upon water-gruel, when they are craving for 
natural food ; or to stuff them with beef-steaks and porter 
when every instinct of their nature rebels against it. In 
fact, it may be taken as a very safe rule, that it is better 
cautiously to supply a patient with the kind and 
quantity of food that his stomach calls for, than to deny 
it to him without an unquestionably good reason for so 
doing. 

This may seem very much like letting a patient eat and 
drink what he pleases. But that is not at all what I 
intend to recommend. All I mean is this, and I wish 
particularly to impress it, that if we intend to interfere in 
the subject of diet, we must take care that we thoroughly 
understand what we are about (see p. 5) ; and in order to 
do this it is necessary to keep well up in the following 
subjects : — 

1. The physiology of healthy nutrition. 

2. The composition of food, and the essentials of a 

normal diet. 

3. The physiology of disease. 

If we keep these matters well before the mind, and at 



SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 109 

the same time keep our wits about us in watching the case 
under treatment, it is surprising what an immense deal 
of good may be done by interfering with the diet ; but 
not otherwise. 

We start, then with this as our first principle — never 
to be lost sight of — that healthy nutrition is to be main- 
tained, if possible, under all circumstances. And we 
assume that to do this in a "healthy adult man of 
average stature taking moderate exercise," the essentials 
of a normal diet must be supplied. 

It must be borne in mind, that the proportions and 
quantities of the different elements of this normal diet 
are arranged to meet the requirements of the different 
functions of the organism when in a healthy state of 
activity ; and it therefore follows, that if the activity of 
any of these functions is altered, the requirements will 
be altered ; and hence, the second general principle is 
this: — To alter the quantities and proportions of the 
elements of a normal diet to correspond with any altera- 
tions in the conditions of life. Thus, when a man is 
overtaken by sickness, and confined to his room or bed, 
the adult man taking moderate exercise becomes an adult 
man taking no exercise ; and the ingredients of his diet 
which were proportioned to his moderate exercise must 
now be proportioned to his no exercise ; and other altera- 
tions must be made in like manner, to correspond with 
other altered circumstances, in addition to any that may 
be specially required by the nature of his disease. 

But I must remind you that, even when a man is 
confined to his bed, and precluded from taking any 
kind of exercise, he is still necessarily undergoing a 
considerable amount of muscular exertion, which must 
be provided for in his diet. For example, so long as 



110 SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IX DISEASE. 

life remains, such all-important muscles as those of 
respiration, and the heart itself, continue to act, 
and to require that their healthy nutrition shall be 
provided for by a supply of plastic materials in the 
food * 

We come next to the long list of alterations of 
function which may be involved in the term " Sickness/' 
And the third principle is — To alter the forms, quan- 
tities, and proportions of the elements of a normal diet, 
to meet the altered relations in the activity and condition 
of organs consequent upon disease. It is evident that, 
in order to carry out our first principle of maintaining 
healthy nutrition under all circumstances, it may be 
necessary, under some conditions, to reduce the quantity 
of every element of diet ; and also, under some circum- 
stances, to alter the proportions of the different elements. 
This we see demonstrated in some of the lower animals 
by the phenomena of hybernation. When an animal 
gives itself up to its winter sleep, every vital function 
is reduced to its lowest degree of activity ; and the 
animal is able to maintain healthy nutrition for a long 
period without taking any food at all ; but as respiration 
has to be kept up more actively than the rest of the 
functions, a special store of carbon for this purpose is 
laid up beforehand in the body. 

Now, supposing a man to suffer from any state of 

disease which should place him in the position, as 

regards his functions, of an animal during hybernation, 

* See tl Pood, Heat, and Motion," Chap. II. It is there shown 
that the mechanical work of the heart, respiration, and other vital 
functions, require sufficient food daily, to generate 400 foot-tons 
of mechanical force. The food necessary to generate the 290 
foot-tons usually required for external work, may be omitted 
from the diet of one taking no exercise. 



SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. Ill 

it is clear that, while his whole diet must be reduced 
to a very low scale, the heat-giving elements must be 
supplied in quantities out of the normal proportions 
as compared with the rest; because no supply of 
carbon is stored up in preparation for his illness, as 
it is in the hybernating animal in preparation for its 
sleep. 

We see conditions, in many respects similar to these 
in some stages of fevers, in which absorption, nutrition, 
and every vital function is at its lowest point consistent 
with life, respiration being the only one sufficiently active 
to call for any considerable supply of food. But here, of 
course, we must not lose sight of an element in the case 
not present in hybernation — viz., the existence of a 
poison, which by some means, natural or artificial, has 
to be eliminated or destroyed, and which may be keeping 
some functions in activity, the requirements of which 
must be met. The precision with which we are able to 
do this in any given case, will depend upon the correct- 
ness of our knowledge of the nature of the poison, and 
of the organs concerned in the restorative process. Here, 
no doubt, we are often obliged to act in the dark, and to 
supply many ingredients which may not be needed, in 
the hope of furnishing among them that which is 
required, but which our ignorance prevents us from 
identifying. And we had far better, whenever our 
knowledge is at fault, act in this safe manner and supply 
much that may be useless rather than run the risk of 
withholding that which may be essential to life. But 
in the majority of cases, our knowledge will be sufficient 
for the emergency, if we keep in mind the general 
principles of action. 

The fourth principle is this : — To obtain rest for every 



112 SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

organ while it is suffering under active disease, by 
removing from the diet such elements as increase its 
functions. These are conditions which it is not always 
easy to fulfil without deviating from our first principle. 
For example — in the case of diseased kidney — the healthy 
nutrition of this organ requires a supply of albuminoid 
materials, while its function is increased by any surplus 
of these materials in the organism ; and when its func- 
tion is interrupted by disease, a proportion of albuminoids 
in the diet, necessary to the healthy nutrition of the 
organism generally, will be tantamount to an excess as 
regards the function of the kidney, and the accumulation 
of retained excretory matters will press injuriously upon 
the affected organ. In such a case other medical aids 
than diet must be brought to bear ; and while the albu- 
minoids in the food are reduced as low as is consistent 
with healthy nutrition, some auxiliary organs which 
are not damaged must be stimulated for the time, to 
save the diseased part from undue pressure upon its 
functions. 

A simpler, but still important principle, may be stated 
as the fifth, viz. : — In all alterations of diet, to avoid any 
unnecessary reduction in the number and variety of the 
forms in which food is allowed to be taken. (See p. 100.) 
It is especially necessary to bear this in mind when 
dieting the dyspeptic, who are often still engaged 
in the active avocations of business and of society while 
under medical treatment. To treat such cases by cut- 
ting off from the daily bill of fare first one article and 
then another, till the food consists of only two or three 
permitted forms, is to destroy the appetite and the diges- 
tive powers by monotony of diet, and to depress the 
spirits of the patient by a constant series of petty denials. 



SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASES. 113 

This plan of dieting can only be regarded as the resource 
of ignorance ; because an enlightened view of the case 
will discover some particular defect in the function of 
digestion or assimilation which will at once indicate 
the form or element of the food which is to be avoided ; 
and thus it will be only necessary to cut off those articles 
which specially represent this element, or simply to alter 
the forms in which they are presented to the stomach. 
(See p. 4). 

The sixth principle is also of great importance, viz. : — 
When it is necessary to remove from the food any of the 
essentials of a normal diet, to aim at selecting that which 
will answer the desired end with least danger to the 
nutrition of the vital organs. For example, if it is 
necessary for any special purpose to diminish the heat- 
giving elements of the diet, it is safer to remove the 
carbo-hydrates than the hydro-carbons, because the 
latter not only supply carbon for the evolution of force, 
but are essential to the nutrition of the nervous system, 
and of the albuminoid tissues generally, (See Fat, 
Chapter VII.) 

The seventh and last principle which I shall give in 
this Lecture is of very general application : — When it is 
desired to increase the normal nutrition of a tissue or 
organ, we must not only supply it freely with the special 
materials requisite for its development, growth, and 
repair, but at the same time call upon it for the per- 
formance of its normal functions -over-fed idleness 
insures morbid nutrition, not healthy life. 

In the next place I will give you a few Rules which 
may assist you in carrying out these general principles. 

Rule 1. — When the power of appropriating any essen- 
tial ingredient of a normal diet is lost to the organism, 

I 



114 SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

the lost function must be substituted by some artificial 
process, or the ingredient in question must be withdrawn 
from the diet till the normal function is restored. In 
obedience to this rule we administer pancreatic emul- 
sions of fat* to patients who have lost the power of 
assimilating fat without this artificial assistance, while 
we adopt all practicable means of restoring the normal 

function.f 

Rule 2 — Is inseparable from the first, and it is this : — 
No essential of a normal diet must be withdrawn, with- 
out an attempt being made either to supply to the 
organism in some other way the ingredient of which it is 
deprived, or to suspend those functions which call for a 
supply of this ingredient. Thus, to take a simple 
illustration:— Suppose the power of digesting meat to be 
lost through a deficient secretion of gastric juice, meat 
must be withdrawn from the diet till the lost function is 
restored, or else an artificial digestive fluid must be 
introduced ; or if it is impossible by these means to main- 
tain the digestion of meat, the physiological ingredients 
of meat must be supplied in the form of some albuminoid 
solution ; or, finally, if this cannot be done, then those 
functions which principally waste the albuminoid tissues 
of the body must be placed as far as possible in a state 
of rest — muscular action must be suspended until the 
function is restored. 

Rule 3. — If an undue waste of any elements of normal 
nutrition is found to be going on in the organism, and 
the means remain of appropriating those elements from 

* See Appendix for Mode of Preparing Pancreatic Emulsion, 
and Directions as to the use of Pancreatine. 

t See Diets for Consumption, and Special Recipes for Pan- 
creatised Foods. 



SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 115 

the food, they must be supplied in the food in quantities 
as much in excess of those proper to the normal diet of 
health as will be sufficient to supply the waste, until it is 
stopped. This also may be illustrated by a very simple 
example. In Bright's disease of the kidney there is no 
loss of the power to appropriate the albuminoids from 
the food, whereas a constant loss of albumen is going on 
through the kidneys, which must be met by propor- 
tionate increase of the albuminoids in the diet. But 
in following this rule, in this particular case, it will be 
necessary to observe the precautions which I mentioned 
when speaking of the fourth general principle. 

Rule 4.— When through any defect in the organism, 
the elements of a normal diet are lost to nutrition if 
presented in the usual forms, those forms must be 
changed; but care must be taken that in the altered 
form all the essential elements of a normal diet are sup- 
plied in their proper quantities and proportions. No- 
thing can illustrate this better than the use of milk as a 
substitute for solid or mixed foods in diarrhoea or 
sickness. 

Rule 5 — Has to deal with more complicated difficul- 
ties. If such a defect exists in the organism that some 
of the essentials of a normal diet are misappropriated, 
so that the organism is deprived of one or more of the 
normal elements of nutrition, and at the same time a 
disease is constituted out of the misappropriated food — 
then we have a double duty in interfering with the diet. 
First, the source of the disease must be stopped by with- 
drawing that part of the diet out of which it is con- 
stituted ; and, secondly, the elements of nutrition thus 
removed must be supplied by some other means or in 
some other form. 

12 



116 SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

Thus, in Diabetes, the saccharine and amylaceous ele- 
ments of the diet are misappropriated; they do not 
serve their normal function of supplying carbon for the 
evolution of heat, and by passing off through the kidneys 
they constitute an exhausting disease. It is necessary, 
therefore, to stop the source of this disease by cutting off 
the saccharine and amylaceous ingredients of the diet 
till normal nutrition is restored. But, in the meantime, 
as carbon must be obtained by some means, it is taken 
from the fat stored up in the body, so long as that lasts, 
and when it is gone, from the albuminoid tissues them- 
selves, till the whole organism is disintegrated ; unless at 
the same time that we cut off the starch and sugar, 
we increase the quantity of fat supplied in the food 
as much in excess of the proportion proper to a normal 
diet as shall fully supply the new demand. 

The modern dietetic treatment of diabetes* may be 
taken as a good example of the way in which increased 
knowledge of the nature of disease and of the physiology 
of food enables us to act under what I have called the 
fifth principle of diet, viz., to avoid any unnecessary 
reduction in the number and variety of the forms in 
which food can be taken. In former days the poor 
parched diabetic was forbidden to drink water lest he 
should increase his flow of urine ; now we are able to let 
him quench his thirst as much as he pleases, so that he 
takes nothing which contains starch or sugar ; and again, 
by preparing bis articles of food in such a manner as to 
exclude the injurious ingredients, and by selecting those 
which are known to contain them in the smallest quanti- 
ties, or not to contain them at all, we are able to present 

* See Diet for Diabetes, p. 122, and the Author's work " On 
Loss of Weight," &c. 



DIETS FOR CONSUMPTION. 117 

the diabetic with a fairly tempting and varied diet, so 
that he is able to keep to it for months and years with 
comparatively little difficulty. (See p. 4.) 



Diets for Consumption. 

In these Diets for Consumption it is assumed that no 
fat is assimilated except that artificially pancreatised. 

In Table VII., p. 118. The required amount of carbon 
is supplied by an excess of carbo-hydrates. 

In Table VIII., p. 119. The required amount of carbon 
is supplied by an excess of albuminoids. 

In Table IX., p. 120. The amount of carbon is kept 
low, because it is only intended as a temporary 
diet to be used during periods of rest in a warm 
room. The arrowroot and some of the fat of the 
milk are pancreatised by mixture with the pan- 
creatic emulsion.* 

* See Appendix for Mode of Preparing "Pancreatic Emul- 



sion." 



DIETS FOB CONSUMPTION. 



it 



1 1 



!' II 



1 
li 



is 

•« 

p 

'I 
!• 



rn-5 I 

ill 
m 



DIETS FOE CONSUMPTION. 



I 
[ a 

M 

si. 

3 II 

a *s 
i *■ 



It 



il 

^3 


«U« JHOOOOjtOO 


I 


s 


! 


4 


0-660 
0-090 
0-036 
0-200 
0-616 
0-770 
2-190 
1-270 
0-900 
0-204 
1000 
0-740 


I 


1 


i 


i 

| 

! 


! 

£ 


0-712 0-976 
0-830 0-740 
0066 0-710 
0-266 0166 

— 0-777 
0-030 220 
0020 0160 

0-700 0-640 
012 0-030 

1000 — 




1 

1 


i 
i 

i 


1 


OOr*QC*9O|O<0 1 I 




1 

! 
i 
1 


i 

1 

1 
1 

H 
1 



11 



ill 

ill 
fgl 



120 



DIETS FOR CONSUMPTION* 









5J 

O 
Pi 

H 



M 

»-H 

a 

I 

O 
H 

OQ 

o 

P3 
O 

OQ 

H 
W 



• 










3,g 


M e* 


O 


> o 

> <* 


O 

1-4 


5^ 

Eh «* 


5 t 


cc 

CN 


1 *» 

i 6 


• 

00 


3 










© 










9 P. 


o 
is «S 


g 


o 


o 


8 -5 


l-H 

CN 


© 


CO 


el 


•** 










1 


g 










a § 


« o 


O 
CO 


1 


CO 
CO 


i? 


o r 


rH 

• 


1 


• 


s 


cn 


o 




e» 


-*a 










s 












• 












fl 












•c 


. <° 


o 


1 


co 




4 


6$ *5 


o 


» 1 


t^ 




.4 


o ? 


OS 

• 


1 


rH 

• 


a! 


1 


00 


«* 




0Q 












M 












CO 


• 


© 


o 


o 


O 


►l 


43 


ha C* 3 


CN 


o 


to 


3 


CO 


© £ 


O 

■ 


o 

• 




5 




CO 


o 


i-H 


-* 




^ 


o 


o 


» 


o 




^ 


fci ° 


o 


> 1 


o 




1 


5 ? 


cc 

• 


» 1 


CM 

• 




s 


CO 


c 


► 


"^* 




60 • 




» * 






A 




1 • 








*§ 












3 ' 




t • 
► • 








a 












o 












c? • 




• 








• 




a 








tq 




g 








o ; 




; a 








^3 




p 


, 




00 




: 1 


00 




1 

1 ± 


i 1 


3 




"i 


> > 


1 i 


O 

H 




£ 


O 


c 


' 3 








^H 


F 


: § 






£ 






1 P* 




• 


o 


co 


<N 


00 


O 


i-H 






1-4 



I 

co 

1 



I 



see 

Hi 

xt ** * 

<« •■* ■* 

Sop 



gig 

«« «1 «< 
o o o 



DIET FOR DIABETES. 121 



Diet for Diabetes. 

Table X., p. 122. In this Diet starch and sugar are 
reduced to a minimum, and fat and albuminoids are 
given in their place, some of the fat being intro- 
duced in the form of Pancreatic Emulsion to assist 
in its assimilation. (See Part VI., " On the Functions 
and Disorders of the Liver, and their Management 
in accordance with the Results of Modern Dis- 
covery," in the 2nd Edition of the Author's work, 
"On Loss of Weight" etc.) 

Note. — All foods and drinks proper for patients 
suffering from Diabetes, can be obtained at Van Abbott's 
Dietetic Depdt, 5, Princes Street, Cavendish Square. 



DIET FOR DIABETES. 



§ 3 



J 

H .9 

■1 



5|« 

s 

is 

I* 



ill 
111. 



s|| l-l : | 

ills. 



- ffii 



dietary for the diabetic. 123 

Dietary for the Diabetic. 

Arranged in a popular form, from various authorities by 
Mr. Van Abbott, Dietetic Depdt, 5, Prince Street, 
Cavendish Square. 

May Eat : Butcher's meat of all kinds, except liver. 
Ham, bacon, and tongue. Poultry. Game. Fish of all 
kinds, fresh, salted and cured. Animal Soups not 
thickened, beef tea, and broths without carrot or turnips. 
Gluten bread and biscottes. Van Abbott's bran Gluten 
biscottes. Eggs dressed in any way. Cheese. Cream 
cheese. Butter. Cream. Greens. Spinach. Water- 
cress. Mustard and cress. Green lettuce. Blanc- 
mange made with cream and not milk. Custard made 
without sugar. Puddings made from Gluten, macaroni, 
vermicelli, or seinola. 

Must Avoid Eating: Sugar in any form. Bread, 
wheaten or otherwise, unless Gluten. Rice. Arrowroot. 
Sago. Tapioca. Ordinary Macaroni. Vermicelli. Pota- 
toes. Carrots. Parsnips. Turnips. Peas. French 
beans. Cabbage. Brussels sprouts. Cauliflower. Broc- 
coli, Asparagus. Seakale. Pastry and Puddings of all 
kinds, except Gluten. Fruit of all kinds, fresh and 
preserved. 

May Drink * Tea. Coffee. Cocoa from nibs. Gluten 
chocolate. Solidified cacao. Claret. Dry sherry. 
Brandy and spirits that have not been sweetened. 
Soda water. Vichy water. Vals water. Van Abbott's 
Prepared Glycerine to sweeten Tea, Coffee, Puddings, &c. 

Must Avoid Drinking: Milk, except sparingly. 
Sweet ales, mild and old. Porter and stout. All sweet 
wines. Port wine. Liqueurs. 



i 



124 



Chapter VII. 
FAT. 

Fat Essential to Healthy Nutrition. — Importance of Distinguish- 
ing between Solid and Liquid Fats. — On Getting Fat and 
Getting Thin. — On Getting Thin. — Bantingism. — Analysis of 
Banting-diet, Showing its Error and Advantages. — On Getting 
Fat. — Fat and Starch in the Nutrition of Children. 

Fat is so essential to the maintenance of healthy nutri- 
tion, that the quantity contained in the daily food can- 
not be reduced much below the proportions given in 
the " Essentials of a Normal Diet " and in the Normal- 
Diet Tables, without great risk of damaging the health. 

When it is necessary for any special object to reduce 
the quantity of carbon taken in the aliments, this can 
more safely be done by diminishing the saccharine and 
amylaceous matters than the fats. (See p. 109, Ban- 
tingism.) 

The importance of fat in nutrition should be stu- 
diously borne in mind by those who construct diets for 
the poor, for public institutions, or for the treatment of 
obesity, diabetes, fatty degeneration; dyspepsia, and the 
like* 

* See Chapter VI., On Diet in Disease, and the Author's work 
" On Loss of Weight," etc. 



SOLID AND LIQUID FATS. 125 

THE IMPORTANCE OF DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN SOLID 

AND LIQUID FATS.* 

The peculiar isomeric modifications of which stearin 
and palmitin are susceptible, as shown by Duffy, pointedly 
distinguish them from olein, which, so far as at pre- 
sent known, has not this susceptibility ; a distinction 
which is supported by the different behaviour of oleic 
acid towards chlorine and bromine, from that of stearic 
or margaric acids (Lef ort), and by the different action 
of bile upon stearic acid and upon oleic acid. (Marcet.) 

But I think we ought to be prepared to learn, that 
solid and liquid fats differ in some important physio- 
logical properties by the first general fact concerning 
the constitution of all natural fats — viz., that they are 
mixtures in varying proportions of at least four different 
bodies, of which the melting points so widely differ — 
stearin melting at 144° F., palmitin at 1148 R, mar- 
garin (probably a compound of stearin and palmitin) at 
116° F., while olein remains fluid at 32° F. 

That the different degrees of solidity of fats depend 
upon the proportions in which the solid ingredients are 
mixed with olein, that olein has a peculiar power of dis- 
solving the solid ingredients, and that the melting point 
of the mixture is thereby reduced, appear to me to be 
facts pointing in the same direction as the foregoing, es- 
pecially when we remember that the affinity of oleic 
acid for oxygen is much greater than that of the other 
fatty acids. 

The fatty bodies obtained from warm-blooded animals 
are generally solid at ordinary temperatures, whilst 

* Substance of an article by the Author in the " Chemical 
News," September 4th, 1868. 



126 SOLID AND LIQUID FlTS. 

those from fish and from cold-blooded animals are 
liquid.* And when we consider the high melting points 
of the solid fats as compared with the temperature of 
the body in warm-blooded animals, it is evident that the 
fat in them would be solid at the temperature of their 
blood, but for the mixture of olein, by which the melt- 
ing point is reduced. 

Therefore the solidity or fluidity of the fat in living 
animals is determined by the proportion of olein which 
is able to be mixed with the stearin, palmitin, and 
margarin in each individual ; and we are forced to con- 
clude either that it is of no importance whether the fats 
of the body during life are in a solid or liquid state, 
or that it is important in what proportion the olein, 
stearin, etc., shall be combined. 

It has been already proved by experiments on the 
fattening of cattle, that the solidity or fluidity of the fat 
in the body varies with the food— that cattle fattened 
upon linseed cake, for example, accumulate, in their 
adipose tissue, an oily material of unusual fluidity 
(Draper), and that the consistence of butter is dependent 
upon the kind of food given to the animals from which 
it is produced (Fownes). 

The fat in animals is particularly liable to accumulate 
immediately beneath the cutis, in the omentum, and 
around the kidneys; and the fat found in the latter 
situation, where it is subject to a more uniformly ele- 
vated temperature than in the integument, is well known 
to be of a more " suety " character — that is to say, it 
contains a smaller proportion of olein, and has a higher 
melting point. These familiar facts point again to some 

* See Wholesomeness and Digestibility of various articles of 
Food, Chapter V. 



1 



ON GETTING FAT AND GETTING THIN. 127 

importance, in the animal economy, attaching to the 
melting point of the fat and the consequent degree of 
fluidity in which it should exist during life. 

With regard to the fat of the integument — the princi- 
pal deposit of adipose tissue in the body — it appears to 
me self-evident that the fluidity of this fat must vary 
with the temperature of the atmosphere in which the 
animal is placed ; to what extent this is the case, is, in 
my opinion, a most important subject for enquiry ; and 
although the experiments to determine the question are 
yet deficient, I hope soon to be able to supply them.* 

In conclusion, what I now suggest as a general propo- 
sition, is this : — That, in ail probability, the stability of 
the fats of the animal body in resisting too rapid oxida- 
tion is dependent upon the degree of solidity which they 
possess at the temperature of the living animal at any 
given time ; that alterations in external temperature may 
affect the solidity of the adipose tissue of the integument 
and, consequently, its power of resisting oxidation ; and 
that, therefore, in all probability, it is of great importance 
that the food of an animal shall contain a certain propor- 
tion of material capable of supplying the adipose tissue 
with solid fat : i.e., fat having a high melting point. 



ON GETTING FAT AND GETTING THIN. 

"The fact that it is possible for a human being to 
maintain from year to year a stationary weight, has 

* This statement was first published in 1868, and, up to the 
present time, 1875, the difficulties attendant upon the experiments 
have baffled those who have attempted to solve the question. But 
I still hope some day to find the time to work it out. 



128 ON GETTING THIN. 

always appeared to me one of the most wonderful evi- 
dences of the perfection of vital existence. 

" When we consider the vicissitudes — of rest, of activity 
and of food, both bodily and mental — to which an average 
human being is subjected in average daily life, and the 
myriads of intricate processes concerned in nutrition, 
development, maintenance, growth, and repair; it is 
simply marvellous that waste and repair should be 
equally balanced, not only from day to day, but from 
year to year. Yet it is not uncommon to meet with 
both men and women whose average weight has not 
appreciably altered for many years. 

u A proper weight having been attained, after the com- 
plete growth and development of the organism, it is no 
doubt the normal condition of things that it should be 
equally maintained through a large portion of adult 
life. That it has been so maintained without arti- 
ficial intervention is one of the most unequivocal proofs 
of health ; while, on the other hand, any marked ten- 
dency either to gain or lose should always be a subject 
for serious investigation by the physician. 

" Many and diverse circumstances may necessitate a 
change of weight without any necessary divergence 
from a healthy state, and all of these must be con- 
siderately investigated before we decide that loss or gain 
in weight is a sign of disease." — See the Author's work 
" On Loss of Weight, Blood Spitting, and Lung Disease," 
2nd Ed., p. 149. 



ON GETTING THIN. 



On comparing the following analysis of Mr. Banting's 
diet for getting thin with my tables of normal diets it 



ON GETTING THIN. 



129 



will be seen that it yields less than half the normal 
quantity of Carbon, leaving the deficiency to be obtained 
from the fat already stored up in the system, by the 
consumption of which the obesity is removed. The fault 
consists in this reduction of Carbon being obtained by 
diminishing the Hydro-carbons (fats) of the food in- 
stead of only cutting off the Carbo-hydrates (sugar 
and starch). 



Mb. Banting's Diet. (Approximate Analysis.) 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saocha- 


Carbon. 


Fluid 


Ozb. 


Food for 84 hours. 








rine. 




Oze. 

• 


Avoird. 




Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 


Ozs. 




14 


Meat, Poultry, 










■ 






Game and Fish.. 


9-25 


3-15 


1-25 


— 


0-98 




2 




0-84 


0-20 


0-01 


0-90 


0-39 




2 


Vegetables (green) 


1-79 


0-02 


— 


016 


0-07 




3 




2-52 


— 


— 


0*40 


016 


16 






1600 




— 


— 


002 


14 




Wine (Claret) . . 


1300 


•- — * 


•■"" 


•■ ■•" 


0-70 


30 


21 




43*40 


3-37 


1-26 


1-45 


2-31 
1-82 






In Plastic matter 








• • • • 


• • 

• 


• . . 


/ 


Total 


413 



It has happened to me to have to do with a great 
number of persons who have tried Bantingism, and I do 
not hesitate to say that, up to the present time,* Mr. 
Banting has done a great deal more good than harm. 
He did not bring forward a single new fact or new idea, 
but he had the luck, by zealously advertising a striking 

* This was first written in 1864, and I can safely repeat it now, 
1881. 

K 



130 ON GETTING THIN. 

case of the effects of a plan of treatment, long familiar to 
every medical man who understood physiology, to con- 
vince the public of the immense influence on the animal 
organism of modifications in the quantity and quality 
of food — an influence in the importance of which they 
did not half believe when urged upon them in the form 
of medical advice. 

Mr. Banting candidly told his readers that he was 
ignorant of the physiology of food, but they did not care 
for this while determined to try his plan, and hence it 
is not to be wondered at that while many have been 
benefited many have done themselves harm. 

But the harm that has been done at present is not very 
great, and is nothing to compare with the harm that will 
come, if, frightened by some striking case in which Bant- 
ingism has nearly cost a man his life, the public rush away 
from it as blindly as they rushed into it, and establish for 
a time such a popular prejudice against systems of diet, 
that a medical man shall not be able to institute those 
rational and scientific regulations of diet which are often 
more important than any other means of treatment in 
the management of disease. — The plain and simple 
facts of the case are these. 1. A certain amount of fat 
in the system is one of the most essential elements of 
health. 2. The quantity required by different indi- 
viduals to maintain health differs.* 3. The effects of a 
deficiency of the quantity actually required, in any given 
organism, are most disastrous, the tissues of the body 
and the brain, and nerves, being at length disintegrated 
to supply the elements of fat which they contain. 4. 
When there is a quantity of fat in the body in excess of 
that necessary to health, it may be lessened with great 

* As much fat should be taken as the stomach likes. 



ON GETTING FAT. 131 

and needed advantage, provided it be done slowly and 
cautiously — allowing the nutritive functions of the 
system to accommodate themselves gradually to the 
altered condition-and most peremptorily stopping the 
loss of fat before it has amounted to a deficiency in 
the quantity necessary to healthy nutrition. 

Nothing is easier than to make a fat man thinner by 
altering his diet, but to do this safely and well is by no 
means devoid of difficulty, and in a large number of 
cases requires the greatest caution, consideration, and 
judgment on the part of those who rule the modifications 
in the diet of the patient. But there is no denying 
that, with such care and judgment, it can in most cases 
be done safely and advantageously. 



ON GETTING FAT. 



The measures necessary for getting fat are of course 
the reverse of those for getting thin. They consist in — 
1. An abundant supply of Carbo-hydrates and Hydro- 
carbons (fats, starch, and sugar) in the food. 2. Means 
to promote the assimilation of these. 3. Means to pre- 
vent waste by oxidation. 

The artificial fattening of cattle is secured by the adop- 
tion of similar measures, and affords the most familiar 
and striking illustration of the subject. 

In this case (see Draper's "Physiology" p. 251) the first 
indication is satisfied by the purposed employment of 
oleaginous and farinaceous articles, as for instance, lin- 
seed cake, or by the selection among ordinary food sub- 
stances, of those which, like Indian corn, abound in oil. 
It is to be remarked that the increase of weight of an 

k 2 



132 ON GETTING FAT. 

animal may take place in two ways : first, by adding fat 
to the deposit in the adipose tissues ; or second, by de- 
velopment of the muscles. It might perhaps be per- 
missible to speak of the former as adipose fattening, the 
latter as albuminized fattening. According as it has 
been subjected to one or other of these processes, an 
animal will be very differently prepared for undergoing 
severe exercise. A horse fed with Indian corn can- 
not maintain himself under severe exercise so well 
as if he had been fed on oats. In the former case 
his adipose tissues have been developed, in the latter 
his muscular. 

The third indication is met by resorting to every ex- 
pedient which can restrain the action of the respired 
oxygen. A state of perfect quiescence is therefore to be 
observed. Muscular movement of every kind increases 
the activity of respiration. On the contrary, rest di- 
minishes it. If in addition to this state of quiet or rest, 
sleep is indulged in, the object is still more perfectly 
attained; and if a high temperature is also resorted 
to, since this checks the oxidation needful for main- 
taming the system at its due temperature, this further 
diminishes the waste of fat. (See "Food, Heat and 
Motion" p. 52.) 

Under such circumstances, where everything is done to 
give a supply of fat, and everything to prevent its con- 
sumption, it may be caused to accumulate in the tissues 
to an extraordinary amount. But this very soon interferes 
with the action of the liver. (See the Chapter on " The 
Functions and Disorders of the Liver," etc., in the 
author's work on " Loss of Weight" etc.) 



DIETARY FOR DECREASING CORPULENCE. 133 

Mr. Van Abbott, of the Dietetic Depot, 5, Princes 
Street, Cavendish Square, who has a large experience in 
these matters, publishes the following Rules of Diet 
" For Getting Fat and Getting Thin : "— 

DIETARY FOR DECREASING CORPULENCE. 

May Eat : Butcher's Meat of all kinds, Ham, Poultry, 
Game. Fish of all kinds, fresh, salted and cured, sparingly. 
Van Abbott's Gluten Bread and Biscottes. Eggs dressed 
in any way, Cream Cheese, Cream. Greens, Spinach, 
Watercress, Mustard and Cress, Green Lettuce. Pud- 
dings made from Gluten Flour, Semola, Macaroni, or 
Vermicelli. 

Must Avoid Eating: Sugar, except sparingly, 
Wheaten Bread. Rice, Arrowroot, Sago, Tapioca, 
Macaroni, Vermicelli. Potatoes, Carrots, Parsnips, Tur- 
nips, Peas, French Beans, Cauliflower, Brocoli, Asparagus, 
Seakale. Pastry and Puddings of all kinds except 
Gluten. Fruit of all kinds, fresh and preserved. 

May Drink: Tea, Coffee, Gluten Chocolate, Dry 
Sherry, Amontillado, Manzanilla, Claret. Brandy and 
Spirits that have not been sweetened. Burton and 
Bitter Ale sparingly. 

Must Avoid Drinking: Milk, except sparingly, 
Sweet Ales, Mild and Old Porter and Stout All Sweet 
Wines, Port Wine, Liqueurs. 

Subject to the approval of your medical adviser, the 
following will be found a useful Diet Table : Butcher's 
Meat, 12 ounces before cooking. Gluten Bread, 6 ounces. 
Sugar, 1J ounce. Butter, 1 ounce. Green Vegetables, 
4 ounces. Milk, £ pint. The above to be divided into 
three meals a day, meat at each meal. 



134 FAT AND STABCH IN 



DIETARY FOR A LEAN PERSON. 

Mat Eat : Fresh Butcher's Meat of all kinds, Game. 
Poultry. Fish of all kinds. Soups, Broths, and Beef 
Tea thickened with Bread or any farinaceous or 
vegetable substances. Eggs, Butter, Cream, Cheese. 
Sweetened Jellies, Custards, Blanc-Mange. . Ripe fruits, 
fresh or preserved. Sugar in almost any form, Honey. 
Bread, Biscuits, Arrowroot, Sago, Tapioca, Rice. Potatoes, 
Parsnips, Carrots, Turnips, Beetroot, Cauliflower, As- 
paragus, Seakale. 

Should Avoid Eating: All kinds of Salted Meats 
and Fish. Pickles. Lemons. 

Avoid Drinking : Sour Wines. Acids. Vinegar. 

Mat Drink : Solidified Cacao, Chocolate, Coffee, Tea, 
Milk. Port, Burgundy, Generous Wines, Liqueurs, Beer, 
Ale, Stout. 



FAT AND STARCH IN THE NUTRITION OF CHILDREN. 

A very interesting article by Dr. Prospero Sonsino, of 
Pisa, in the September, 1872, number of the " Practi- 
tioner," "On the Physiological Dyspepsia for Starchy 
Food in Infancy," revives an intention, from which I 
have been diverted by other occupations, of publishing 
a few words on an allied subject. 

I propose to speak of the class of cases constituting 
that wretched form of " atrophy and debility" and " ma- 
rasmus" in children, in which every part of the body 
wastes away except the abdomen ; the state described by 
Dr. Druitt, in the last edition of his "Vade Mecum," in 
the following few and graphic words : — Emaciation and 



THE NUTRITION OF CHILDREN. 135 

voracity ; the belly swelled and hard ; the skin dry and 
harsh ; the eyes red ; the tongue strawberry-coloured ; 
the breath foul ; the stools clay-coloured and offensive, 
sometimes costive, sometimes extremely relaxed; the pa- 
tient usually dies hectic." 

I wish to bring prominently forward the fact that this 
state, provided there is no advanced lung disease, is 
rapidly cured by Pancreatic Emulsion* given in doses of a 
teaspoonful every four hours, and regularly persisted in till fat 
and flesh are restored. It is, of course, necessary that a 
proper diet should be insisted on at the same time ; 
but proper diet without the Pancreatic Emulsion will 
not do. This I have found over and over again in cases 
where everything judicious in the way of feeding and 
cod liver oil had been carefully and perseveringly tried 
without avail, but which, on the addition of the Emul- 
sion to the previous diet, began at once to improve. 

This fact has been familiar to me for a long time ; and 
considering how largely Pancreatic Emulsion is now used 
in the wasting diseases of adults, I am surprised to find 
that it is not even referred to in the latest works (1875) 
on the diseases of children. Looking through these 
works and examining their indexes, one is led to the 
conclusion that their authors are not aware that there 
is such an organ as the pancreas, or that pancreatic juice 
has ever been used in any form in the treatment of 
disease.f Yet scarcely a week now passes but some 

* See Appendix for the methods of preparing and using Pan- 
creatic Emulsion and Pancreatine. 

t The word " Pancreas " does not occur in the indexes of the 
last editions of West, Tanner, Yogel, Meigs and Pepper, Eustace 
Smith, Churchill, on "Diseases of Children." [This note was 
written in 1875, and the author is glad to recognise a completely 
altered state of things in 1881 ] 



136 FAT AND STARCH IN 

general practitioner relates to me cases of the successful 
use in his own practice of Pancreatic Emulsion in the 
wasting of delicate children. 

Dr. Prospero Sonsino's paper will, I hope, excite more 
general attention to this important subject. He, how- 
ever, has laid all the stress of his observations upon the 
influence of the salivary and pancreatic juices on the 
digestion of starch. This is unquestionably a point of 
the greatest importance in the case of very young 
children brought up by hand, as showing the absurdity of 
attempting to nourish them upon starchy food, not arti- 
ficially digested, before the period of life at which the 
saliva and pancreatic juice attain their functional 
activity.* And even then, as Dr. Sonsino afterwards 
remarks, " good reasons make us now believe that really 
it is not proper to feed infante with copious starchy 
matters, however these may be rendered digestible." The 
principal results of Dr. Sonsino's investigations are 
summed up in the two following conclusions, which, how- 
ever, are not new: — 1. "Pancreatic juice in dogs, cats 
and rabbits, in the first week of life — perhaps for some 
days more — is devoid of any digestive action on starch." 
2. " In the early life of man, probably till the beginning 
of dentition, infants offer a true physiological dyspepsia 
for starchy aliments, caused by the inactivity of one 
at least — possibly of all — the humours that concur in the 
digestion of those aliments " (saliva, gastric juice, pan- 
creatic juice, enteric juice). 

No doubt, when wasting occurs in these early periods 
of life, it is very often due to foolish attempts to nourish 
children upon farinaceous foods, by which dyspepsia and 

* See Special Recipes, etc., for Savory and Moore's and Allen 
and Hanbury's Malted Farinaceous Foods. 



THE NUTRITION OF CHILDREN. 137 

diarrhoea add to the exhaustion of partial assimilative- 
starvation. But, as a matter of fact, farinaceous food is 
seldom depended upon without some addition of cow's 
milk, or some assistance from lactation ; and we see chil- 
dren suffer from wasting who are fed entirely upon cow's 
milk, or nursed by their mothers, and in such cases the 
" physiological dyspepsia for starchy food " will not ac- 
count for their decline. Therefore we must not forget, that 
although normal saliva only acts upon starch, normal 
pancreatic juice acts also upon fats ; and it is probable 
that these two functions of the pancreas are sufficiently 
independent of each other that they may exist sepa- 
rately. This I pointed out in my paper to the Royal 
Society in 1868, " On the Special Action of the Pancreas 
on Fat and Starch." (See Appendix.) It is there stated 
as the results of my experiments, that " in addition to 
the influence of the pancreas upon fat, it has the power 
of converting starch into glucose by simple mixture. This 
property remains to a certain extent after the pancreas has 
exhausted its property of acting upon fat The quantity of 
pancreas which before mixture with fat will convert 
about eight parts of starch into glucose, after saturation 
with fat will still convert about two parts of starch into 
glucose." It is possible, therefore, that in different states 
of depraved health, one or other of these properties of the 
pancreatic juice — that for the digestion of starch, or that 
for the digestion of fat — may be deficient. And thus the 
depraved nutrition due to such deficiency will not be 
limited to the period of life anterior to that at which, 
under normal conditions, the proper functions of the pan- 
creas should be developed. It is evident that when the 
power of digesting fat fails to be developed at its pro- 
per time, the defect must tell with double force upon 



138 FAT AND STARCH IN 

children already suffering from deficient digestion of 
starch. 

The children who become the subjects of the kind of 
wasting of which I am now treating are especially : (1) 
those who are suckled by mothers whose milk, though 
abundant in quantity, is extremely deficient in nutritive 
properties ; (2) those" who are brought up by hand ; and 
(3) those who, at a later period of childhood, have been 
subjected to similar chronic defects in diet. Now, it is 
especially when the mother's milk is poor in fat and 
lactin that the child becomes "dissatisfied" and "craving," 
and in the majority of cases it is this which leads to 
the introduction of farinaceous food, under the popu- 
lar nursery belief that it is "satisfying? and, as Dr. 
Sonsino states, if this is given before the power of 
digesting starch is established, of course nothing but 
mischief can result. 

But organs, like individuals, do not rise to the full 
performance of their duties unless called upon by the 
necessity for their activity; and, as I pointed out in 
1866 (" On Tuberculosis" -p. 40, second edition), "As the 
mother is deprived of fat-elements by lactation, so is the 
child deprived of them by a persistence in a diet de- 
ficient in milk. In the case of the child thus deprived 
of fat, a double injury is done, first, by cutting off the 
supply of fat-elements necessary for the protection of 
the tissues ; and secondly, by paralysing the function of 
the pancreas by prolonged inactivity" I venture to think 
that this is a point deserving far more attention than it 
has yet received * It accounts in a great measure for 

* See some excellent papers by Dr. D. J. Brakenridge, u On the 
Influence of a Digestive Habit," etc. "Medical Times and 
Gazette," June, 1868. 



THE NUTRITION OF CHILDREN. 139 

the impossibility of restoring these ill-nourished, wasted 
children by any kind of natural diet after they have 
been allowed to remain in a chronic state of defective 
nutrition. A child that has been long fed upon diet 
deficient in fat fails to develop the fat-digesting pro- 
perties of the pancreatic secretion, and thus, when proper 
food is at last presented, cannot make use of it for 
nutrition. (See pp. 272-4, " On Loss of Weight, Blood- 
Spitting, etc." 2nd Edition.) 

It is probable, therefore, that it is due to this conjunc- 
tion of circumstances that these wretched cases of fatal 
infantile wasting occur : the food deficient in fat not 
only fails to nourish the child, but fails to develop the 
function of the pancreas for the digestion of fat at a later, 
period of life ; the craving of the child due to the defi- 
ciency of assimilated fat is met by starchy food, which it 
has not the power to digest, and which, if digested, can- 
not supply the place of fat. Thus it is literally starved 
from first to last of those elements of nutrition especially 
essential in early life. We cannot, therefore, be sur- 
prised that such cases have proved obstinately fatal, 
neither is it anything but what one might expect, a 
priori, that they get rapidly well when Pancreatic Emul- 
sion of fat is added to their diet, for by this means they 
are enabled to assimilate both fat and starch. 

Certainly of all the satisfactory remedial effects of 
Pancreatic Emulsion, none equal the almost magical re- 
coveries of some of these miserable wasted children. The 
cases in which I have seen it administered within the 
last eight years are too numerous to relate, and I will 
only briefly mention three of those which first especially 
excited my attention. 

1. A poor woman came to the Royal Hospital for 



142 FAT AND STABCH IN 

These cases, which are well known to many persons 
besides myself, may appear somewhat " sensational," but 
they are only samples of numerous others which have 
occurred in my own practice. The fact is, that when 
these cases are properly selected for the treatment, they 
are all " sensational ; " for the rapidity with which it 
takes effect, and the completeness of the restoration to 
health of children who appeared to be hopelessly dying, 
is simply startling. 

I have proved over and over again that, whether in 
children or adults, no amount of milk or cream, however 
good, will do instead of Pancreatic Emulsion, and I have 
tried to discover why this should be. Milk, so far as 
this part of. its composition is concerned, is simply an 
emulsion of fat; and Pancreatic Emulsion, as I have 
shown in the paper to the Koyal Society already referred 
to, is not, as formerly supposed, a chemical combination, 
but a true emulsion. Why, then, does not milk answer 
as well ? I believe the explanation to be very simple, 
and that it turns upon the following points : — 

(a.) The fineness of the particles of fat in the Emulsion, 
and the absence of albuminous envelope. 

(J.) The permanent character of the molecular mixture 
of fat and water. 

(c.) The proportion of fats having high melting points. 
(See p. 125, " On the Importance of Distinguishing between 
Solid and Liquid Fats") 

(a.) In my first paper on Pancreatic Emulsion (" Lan- 
cet," September 10, 1864), I gave the measurements 
(made by the late Mr. Farrants, President of the Micro- 
scopical Society) of the particles of fat in cod oil and beef - 
fat emulsions, as then prepared for me ; showing that 
the majority of the particles in the cod-oil emulsion 



J 



THE NUTRITION OF CHILDREN. 143 

ranged from the 16,000th to the 1,200th of an inch in 
diameter, and those in the beef -fat emulsion from the 
10,000th to the 2,500th of an inch ; and, according to 
Bowman (" Practical Handbook of Medical Chemistry," 
p. 174), " The size of the globules in healthy milk varies 
from a mere point to about the 2,000th of an inch." 

Since I published Mr. Farrants' measurements, Pan- 
creatic Emulsion has been made by a much more equal 
and satisfactory process than at that time, and I have just 
(1875) examined a chance specimen procured from Messrs. 
Savory and Moore, in which the large majority of the 
particles of fat range from the 21,600th to the 14,400th 
of an inch in diameter, the prevailing size being the 
18,000th of an inch ; while in a specimen of good new 
milk (cold), which I have also just examined, the large 
majority of the particles of fat range from the 7,200th to 
the 3,600th of an inch in diameter, the smallest being 
the 10,800th. 

(b.) The permanent character of the Pancreatic Emul- 
sion is very remarkable, far exceeding that of milk. It 

matter, whether chemical or mechanical. All other 
emulsions of fat are destroyed by ether, the fat being 
restored at once to its original condition. The influence 
exerted by the pancreas upon fats, therefore, appears to 
operate by breaking up the aggregation of the crystals of 
the fat. It alters the molecular condition of the fat, 
mingling it with water in such a way, than even ether 
cannot separate the fat from the water. A permanent 
emulsion is thus formed, ready to mix with a larger 
quantity of water whenever it may be added." ("Pro- 
ceedings of the Royal Society ," already referred to.) 
(c.) In the " Chemical News," September 4, 1868, I 



144 FAT AND STARCH IN 

stated my reasons for believing in the importance of 
fats of high melting points, such as stearin, margarin 
and palmitin, over those of low melting points, such 
as olein, as elements of food and medicine ; although 
further experiments and investigations are still needed 
on this interesting subject, (See p. 127.) 

Pancreatic Emulsion of solid fat, consisting princi- 
pally of stearin, margarin, and palmitin, is therefore 
quite a different thing from milk, the fat of which is 
principally olein. 

Now, the nearest approach to a pancreatic emulsion is 
what may be called, nascent milk, by which I mean milk 
just secreted — milk that flows from the mammary gland 
as it is formed, or as mothers term it, " as the draught 
comes in." In this the emulsification is finest and most 
perfect, but every minute that elapses after the milk is 
secreted, deteriorates this perfection of emulsification, 
until, as we know, whether retained in the lactiferous 
ducts or in an artificial vessel, but especially in the latter, 
and when allowed to cool, the cream separates from the 
water of the milk, never again to be susceptible of the 
same emulsification with water in which it first existed, 
except under the influence of pancreatic juice * 

I submit that this is the secret of the superiority of 
lactation, and especially of lactation at the time "the 
draught comes in," over every other kind of infant- 
feeding, whether in man or in the lower animals. It 
forms an important distinction between milk-diet 
supplied by the natural process of suckling, and milk-diet 
administered artificially, and affords some reasonable 
colour to the old-standing belief in the efficacy of " new 

* See " Intravenous Injection of Milk" p. 272 in the 2nd Edi- 
tion of the Author's work " On Loss of Weight" etc. 



THE NUTRITION OF CHILDREN. 145 

milk warm from the cow" for delicate children, and to 
the remarkable recoveries recorded in ancient times of 
old persons nourished by lactation when everything 
else had failed * 

* " A very useful preparation, however, is now everywhere pro- 
curable. I allude to Pancreatic Emulsion, than which, next to 
cod-liver oil, I know of no better f attener. It is easily taken by 
children, and . . . fulfils all the indications, as an emulsion of 
fatty matter, to be desired." — " On Infant Feeding and its Influence 
on Life ; or the Causes and Prevention of Infant Mortality" by 
G-. H. F. Routh, M.D., Senior Physician to the Samaritan Hos- 
pital for Women and Children, etc. 3rd Ed., 1874, p. 428. 



146 



Chapter VIII. 
FERMENTED LIQUORS. 

Administration of Alcohol — Properties of Various Wines. — 
Wines in General. — Spanish Wines. — German Wines. — Hun- 
garian Wines. — Greek Wines. — Acid, Gout, Rheumatism. — 
Acid and Sugar in Spirituous Liquors. — Ardent Spirits and 
their Peculiarities. — Alcohol Table showing the Analysis of 
Spirituous Liquors. 



ADMINISTRATION OF ALCOHOL. 

Children, and those under twenty-one, should only 
take alcohol as a medicine. According to my own ex- 
perience, based upon long and careful observation, an 
average-sized' adult man, taking moderate exercise, may 
drink with advantage enough fermented liquors, each 24 
hours, to represent from one to two ounces avoirdupois 
of absolute alcohol, equivalent to from If to 3£ ounces of 
proof spirit* — provided it be always diluted to the ex- 
tent of 10 fluid ounces (half-a-pint imperial) of water or 
some other unfermented liquor to each ounce avoirdupois 
of absolute alcohol, and that it be taken when there is 
food in the stomach. (See Preliminary Remarks, pp. 
7, 8 ; Chapter IIL ; and Appendix.) 



THE PROPERTIES OF VARIOUS WINES. 

The subject of wine has of late years become so exten- 
sive—embracing so many considerations connected with 

* See Alcohol Table, p. 166. 



THE PROPERTIES OF VARIOUS WINES. 147 

such numerous varieties of wine from different parts of 
the world, — that I have thought it best to give the 
practical experience of several recognised authorities 
specially acquainted with different departments of the 
subject. 

I am glad, therefore, to be able to present the follow- 
ing matter from such reliable sources. 

The observations on Wines in General are dictated by 
my friend Mr. James L. Johnston, late Principal In- 
spector of Customs Laboratories, who has, undoubtedly, 
more correct practical and scientific knowledge of 
fermented liquors than any other person in this country. 

For the account of the wines of Spain I am indebted 
to Mr. F. W. Cosens, the celebrated Spanish wine 
merchant. 

The description of the Wines of Germany, and of the 
distinctive medicinal properties attributed to them in the 
districts where they are grown, was furnished by the 
late Mr. M. A. Verkruzen, who had devoted much time 

i 

to this subject. 

Mr. Denman, of Piccadilly, the principal introducer of 
the Wines of Greece, and the author of several works 
on wine, has favoured me with the concise statement of 
the medicinal properties attributed to these wines by the 
numerous medical men who have communicated to him 
their experience. 

For the account of the wines of Hungary, I am in- 
debted to Mr. Max Greger, of Mincing Lane, City, 
who first introduced the pure Hungarian wines into 
this country, and who has so creditably maintained his 
character both for a scientific and practical knowledge 
of the wines of his native land, and for the conscien- 
tiousness with which he attends to the orders of 

L 2 



148 WINES IN GENERAL. 

medical men, when they consider it important that only 
the purest and most mature wines shall be supplied to 
their patients. 

I give the statements of these several authorities 
nearly in their own words, and they are responsible for 
them ; but, so far as it is practicable for one person to do 
so, I have endeavoured to test the correctness of their 
opinions by my own experience. 

It is necessary to add, that there is no department 
of commerce in which "commercial immorality" is so 
atrociously and so easily practised as in the wine trade 
-the most professed Connoisseurs being often the 
most " taken in ;" and I know of no protection against 
the misfortune of drinking half poisonous trash instead 
of genuine wholesome wine, except that of cautiously 
selecting a wine merchant of known honour and probity, 
and then leaving to him the entire responsibility of 
choosing your wines. 



WINES IN GENERAL. 

In the economy of nature, wine has always held a 
prominent position. Corn, and wine, and oil, represent 
the highest agricultural development of the vegetable 
world — the corn and oil to nourish and sustain, and 
the wine to invigorate, refresh, and solace life. 

In considering the subject of diet, therefore, whether 
for health or sickness, so important an element cannot 
be ignored, seeing that, while, in health it contributes 
largely to the enjoyment of life, in sickness it is a 
powerful auxiliary to the Physician under many morbid 
conditions affecting both body and mind. 



WINES IN GENERAX. 149 

In all ages, in wine-producing countries especially, 
where it is best known and appreciated, wine, rationally 
used, has been regarded as a valuable means of pro- 
moting health, of prolonging life, and of adding to its 
enjoyment; but the penalties which follow the abuse 
of any of those gifts, provided and intended by the 
Creator for the benefit of His creatures, as certainly 
follow its misuse. This requires no argument to demon- 
strate, it is within the knowledge of every thinking 
observer, nor does it furnish any reason for the 
disuse of wine, for there are few of the most valuable 
medicaments which are not poisonous if used without 
discretion. With these prefatory remarks we may pro- 
ceed to consider briefly the constitution and varieties of 
wine, its natural and commercial alcoholic force, and its 
hygienic properties. 

Strictly defined, wine is the fermented juice of the 
grape. But this theoretical definition is not quite car- 
ried out in practice. . When perfectly fermented, wine 
is technically said to have become "dry," it means that 
the whole of its sugar has been converted into alcohol, — 
within certain limits, however, inasmuch as the pro- 
duction of alcohol, at a certain point arrests the fer- 
mentation and further production of spirit, leaving a 
margin of unconverted sugar (where that constituent is 
in excess) to enhance the richness of the wine, as in the 
instance of the celebrated Sauterne, known as Chateau 
D'Yquem. 

For the same reason extraneous spirit added to the f er- 
menting « must" has the effect of arresting further action, 
and retaining the unconverted sugar as an element of 
richness in the liquid. This is the course followed,— 
with recent modifications and exceptions, — in the manu- 



150 WINES IN GENERAL. 

facture of the Port wine of commerce, and also of the 
red Tarragona wines of Spain, intended to imitate and 
compete with Port in the English market. 

Some wines are only partially fermented,in consequence 
of the over-richness of the "must" through the elimina- 
tion of a considerable proportion of its watery constituent 
by natural or artificial means ; as in the instance of the 
Essenz or Ausbruch wines of Hungary, of which the 
Imperial Tokay, a wine of wonderful richness, is the 
highest type. Others again are not fermented at all, 
but the grape juice is simply inspissated or concentrated 
by slow boiling or simmering, as in the Tent wine made 
at Rota in Spain, and used generally for communion 
purposes in the Anglican Church. Of course under such 
circumstances this is merely a syrup or conserve of grape 
juice, and does not contain a particle of spirit in its 
natural state ; but as it is customary to add from 20 to 
30 per cent, of spirit to it by way of preservative, it 
is put upon much the same footing as fermented wine, 
in respect of alcohol. 

Effervescing or sparkling wines are the last variety. 
In them the fermentative action is not only arrested but 
imprisoned as it were, to form the " mousse," as it is 
called, which is at once their peculiarity and their 
charm. 

Dry wines, whether still or sparkling, are preferable to 
all other kinds from a medical point of view, chiefly on 
account of their greater freedom from the objectionable 
unconverted sugar and their more easy digestion, in 
addition to which their quality is invariably higher, as 
being under no disguise. 

In almost every other respect the grand characteristics 
of wine are common to all, subject to certain modifica- 



WINES IN GENERAL. 151 

tions arising from climate or soil, from the latter of 
which, especially, some very important hygienic qualities 
are derived. 

Colour is a distinction of little importance to the 
present question. It is obtained from the skin of the 
grape, when Oe bruised fruit is fermented in place of 
the expressed juice ; — red or violet when the black grape 
is used, from the blue colouring matter of the skins, and 
brownish-yellow in case of the white grape, from the 
apothema, which becomes darker by exposure to the air. 
But in many cases colour is an artificial production, 
notably in the case of brown sherries, in which it is 
due to an admixture of boiled wine, called vino de 
color ; the normal colour of pure sherry, for example, is 
a paJ^ greenish or brownish yellow, deepening with ie. 
For these reasons pale sherries are to be preferred to 
golden or brown, especially as being purer. 

The natural strength of wine is-within a limited range 
— from 18 to 30 per cent, proof spirit* (10'5 to 17*25 
alcohol) which is rarely if ever exceeded. French Claret 
is a type of the lowest, and the wines of the Pyrenees 
Orientale and of Spain generally, are types of the highest 
strength. 

The majority, however, occupy the middle place, and 
comprise Sauternes, Burgundies red and white, the wines 
of the Rhine, the Moselle and the Danube, the Italian 
Peninsula (excepting Marsala) and the Grecian Archi- 
pelago, which are all within 20 and 25 per cent, proof 
spirit (11*5 to 145 alcohol). These wines, as a rule, are 
brought to market in a nearly pure state, or with such 

* Proof spirit is the ordinary potable spirit of commerce, and is 
equivalent to nearly equal parts of alcohol and water. — (See 
Alcohol Table.) 



152 WINES IN GENERAL. 

inconsiderable additions of spirit as to be of little con- 
sequence. 

It may be taken for granted that no sparkling or 
effervescing wines can ever exceed the strength of 24 per 
cent, proof spirit (13*5 alcohol) ; their real variety, apart 
from the different sorts of wine employed, consists in 
the different proportions of sugar added as " liqueur " 
in the course of manufacture, and which varies from 
the pure or "brut" wine up to 18 and 20 per cent.; 
the general average in the English market is mid- 
way, about 10 per cent., although the demand for the 
" dry " kinds is greatly on the increase. In prescribing 
these wines, therefore, the medical man is dealing with 
known forces as far as alcohol is concerned; but it 
is very different in respect of Port, Sherry, Madeira, and 
Marsala. 

The Port wine of commerce is never under 35 per cent, 
proof spirit (20 alcohol), the average being 38*5 up to 42 
proof spirit (22 to 24 alcohol) ; while Sherry, Madeira, 
and Marsala, although commencing a trifle lower, or at 
about 31*5 proof spirit (18 alcohol) advance almost if not 
quite as far. 

Thus a rich vintage Port wine at 42 per cent., the 
usual strength of high-class Port wine, must have had 
83 per cent, of proof spirit, or one third of its bulk of 
ordinary brandy added to bring it to that condition.* 

The same may be said of the cheaper red Tarragona 
wines lately introduced, which bid fair to supersede the 
real Port wines in Hospital practice. In its pure state 
Tarragona is a generous wine of considerable natural 
body and strength, and likely, if its use were en- 

* Thiee glasses of such wine, therefore, represent more than 
one glass of ordinary brandy. 



WINES IN GENERAL. 153 

couraged, to become a favourite and wholesome beve- 
rage with the million. 

Although Sherries and other white Spanish wines are, 
in general, largely fortified for the English market, there 
are, amongst the drier sorts — Montilla, Amontillado, 
Manzanilla — -and the lighter kinds termed Vino de pasto, 
many which would only be injured by being fortified, and 
are consequently-the higher classes in particular- 
usually exempt from that debasing operation. Some of 
these are unequalled for sanitary purposes, especially in 

lado not unlike that of an orange-pip) appears to act as 
a tonic. 

No wine has been so extensively imitated — the usual 
penalty of admitted excellence — as so-called Sherry; 
Hamburg especially is facile princeps in manufacturing an 
article called Elbe Sherry — largely recommended in cer- 
tain quarters, composed principally of Elbe water and 
potato-spirit, flavoured in an ingenious manner with 
various extracts and ethers too numerous to mention — 
which should be shunned as poison under whatever 
auspices it may present itself. There is scarcely a white 
wine vended which is not called Sherry, and courts con- 
sumption under that popular and attractive pseudonym. 

It would be out of place in a work of this descrip- 
tion to show the different means by which the natural 
characteristics of wine are artificially heightened, when 
weftk, or supplied, when altogether wanting — such as the 
elder flower on the Rhine and Moselle, the chamomile 
in Spain, and the black currant leaf and raspberry in 
France to give "bouquet," the elderberry, blackberry 
and bilberry to give colour, in Portugal and Spain. 
These are harmless, compared with the abominably per- 



i 



154 SPANISH WINES. 

nicious practice of " fortifying " beyond what is neces- 
sary for purposes of preservation, where potato or beet- 
spirit, or some such cheap and nasty production is the 
agent employed. 



SPANISH WINES. 

Of all those wines possessing distinct characteristics, 
and which impress the palate in a marked degree, none 
is more prominent, in the opinion of Mr. Cosens, than 
that one of Spanish growth, known under the generic 
name of Sherry, and which is so called from being pro- 
duced near the town of Jerez de la Frontera in Anda- 
lusia, around which cluster the oldest and most famous 
vineyards. 

Of late years, since railway communication has opened 
up the interior of Spain to the seaboard, a great impulse 
has been given to viticulture around Seville, the Mon- 
tilla district near Cordova, and other outlying localities : 
the wines being light, genuine, and delicate, are in general 
favour as dinner beverages at moderate prices. 

The area producing the veritable Jerez has been some- 
what extended, since Dr. Gorman, in 1851, published 
his statistical tables of the annual yield, which he gave 
as 52,000 butts for the whole district. 

There is, probably, little doubt that the famous "Me- 
thuen treaty," while it secured a temporary monopoly 
for the wines of Spain and Portugal, induced a much 
more careful cultivation, and consequently a yield of 
superior wine ; so much so, that, since then, Sherry has 
become a household wine as much by force of quality 
as by fiscal favouritism. Of course the usual penalty 



SPANISH WINES. 155 

of excellence has to be paid, and Cape and Elbe Sherries 
have started into notoriety, as cheap imitations, damaging 
the reputation of the pure produce of Jerez in the esti- 
mation, at least, of the ill-informed. 

From old records still preserved amongst the archives 
at Jerez, we find that so early as 1268 vineyards are 
named as existing contiguous to the " Cartuja monastery" 
on the banks of the Guadalete which flows past the 
Portal or Port of Jerez, a short distance from the town 
itself. It is also stated that in the year 1483, " no 
English or Breton ships have arrived this year in con- 
sequence of the war with the Biscayens," and in an old 
print of the time of the sack of Cadiz under Essex, men 
are seen carrying butts of wine slung by ropes suspended 
from their shoulders, to a boat on the beach, a vessel 
apparently of English build, lying at anchor in the Bay, 
the casks are of precisely the same shape and character 
as those now in use. 

There is no doubt that prior to 1483 the wines of 
Spain were consumed and appreciated in England. In 
1419 William Horrold was placed in the pillory for 
counterfeiting and vending " olde and feble Spaynishe 
wyn for good and true Romeney." 

The same counterfeiting, for a long period fostered by 
the half duty charged upon Cape wines, has no doubt 
led many medical men into error as to the exact hygienic 
effects of Sherry. 

Judging from continental practice there are many 
maladies for which genuine and generous wine of the 
Sherry type is the only recognised and approved cura- 
tive stimulant. 

A large quantity of really superior Sherry finds its 
way annually into consumption in England, in fact 



156 SPANISH WINES. 

all the costly and rare growths are exported to this 
country. 

Domecq, Garvey, Gonzalez, Cosens, and others devote 
themselves almost exclusively to the growing, rearing, 
and exportation of the produce of the oldest and best 
cultivated vineyards of the " termino of Jerez." These 
wines can be procured in a perfectly genuine state 
and in the highest perfection through the established 
channels of supply — wine merchants of credit and 
position. 

Undoubtedly, good, sound, wholesome, young Sherry 
may always be procured at a moderate price ; but those 
who look for high character and rare excellence must 
bear in mind that great resources are required to enable 
the shipper to breed fine wine; much time, skill, and 
patience, as well as technical aptitude are absolutely 
necessary to secure a favourable result Fine Sherry 
must, therefore, always remain more or less costly ; at 
the same time excellent wine may be procured at a 
moderate price, while " cheap and wholesome," is only, as 
a rule, another name for dear because inferior. 

A teaspoonful of water in a glass of ordinary Sherry 
will render it grateful to the delicate digestion of most 
dyspeptics. 

The great rage for cheap wines since the introduction 
of Claret at a low duty has undoubtedly stimulated the 
importation from the South of Spain of immature wines : 
such, improperly fermented, carelessly prepared, and of 
inferior growths, have disgusted many consumers ; and 
the medical profession have noted their baneful effects 
from a hygienic point of view. 

Ford says in his Handbook, speaking of Manzanilla, 
" Drink it, ye dyspeptics ;" but as there are wines and 



SPANISH WINES. 157 

wines, so are there Manzanillas and Manzanillas. No 
wine requires more time and skill to grow and rear, or 
probably, in its immature state, is more injurious to a 
delicate stomach. 

A great deal of controversy has at times arisen as to 
whether the sprinkling of grapes with a very small 
quantity of gypsum is desirable or not ; some assert that 
the lime in the sack, so feelingly alluded to by Falstaff, 
arose from this same sprinkling, especially as there is 
but little doubt that up to the early years of the 
eighteenth century the " Sherris, sack/' of history was 
quite a new wine exported from Spain almost as Must. 
Hence all the empirical recipes given in such books as 
the " Mysteries of Vintners " (1699), &c. 

With reference to this sprinkling of gypsum, prac- 
tised since the days of Pliny, its sole use is probably to 
counteract the effects of an over-production of albu- 
minous matter dangerous to the wine during the years 
required U> ripen and perfect it. 

Genius in the management of sherry has its value 
undoubtedly, but it must be supplemented by training. 

Condition, time for bottling, refining — all these require 
long and patient study ; the result being, from skill and 
good management, bottled sunshine ! — and from the con- 
trary Daffy's Elixir ! 

The Bed wines of Spain are annually gaining favour ; 
they are ripe at an earlier age than the White, and pos- 
sess dietetic and hygienic properties peculiarly their 
own. At the Claret duty of Is. per gallon, instead of 
2s. 6d., they would probably become the Bed wines of 
the million. 



158 GERMAN WINES. 



GERMAN WINES. 

German Wines, when obtained in their native purity, 
contain medicinal and health-promoting qualities of 
great value. 

Foremost in medicinal respects, Mr. Verkriizen says, 
we should consider the Moselle and Saar wines: they 
are the lightest and contain the smallest proportion of 
alcohol and saccharine matter, and are consequently not 
only the most digestible, but, from the considerable pro- 
portion of vinous and apple acid they contain, are power- 
ful promoters of digestion ; they act most beneficially 
upon the secreting and excreting organs, and are great 
purifiers of the blood ; whilst their stimulating power is 
of the mildest character, though most decidedly percep- 
tible, as in the coldest weather they diffuse throughout 
the system a comforting sense of warmth. 

Dr. Franz Meurer, Royal Prussian Resident Physician 
by Government appointment at Zell on Moselle, speaks 
in the highest terms of the curative and health-pro- 
moting qualities of these wines, as the result of his 
thirty years' practical experience. 

He recommends them as most valuable in cases of 
Rheumatism, Gout, Dropsy, Stone, Gravel, and in 
Scorbutic, and blood diseases generally. 

In certain cases those younger and lighter wines which 
possess a larger proportion of vinous and apple acid are 
most beneficial; whereas, in other cases, fuller bodied 
wines of greater age and possessing a larger degree of 
alcohol {always natural and not added to the wine) and a 



GERMAN WINES. 159 

less proportion of acidity, of whatever nature it may be, 
are most beneficial. It is a noteworthy fact that the 
Moselle and Saar wines, whilst containing more vinous 
and apple acid than other wines, not only do not sour 
the stomach, like the sweet wines, but actually counter- 
act acidity of the stomach by promoting its healthy 
action. 

In cases where Ports, Sherries, Clarets and Rhine wines 
produce acidity, the Moselle wines frequently counteract 
it from the extraordinary lightness of their character and 
the mild and gentle nature of their appetising power, 
which gently stimulates without irritating. As daily 
beverages no wines are more suitable. The higher class 
of these wines are the most recommendable in dyspeptic 
cases. 

The principal growths are :— 

Wiltinger, Zeltinger, Brauneberger, Piesporter, Jo- 
sephshofer, Griinhauser, Scharzberger and Scharzhof- 
berger, all white wines. 

These may be described as strongly diuretic and 
mildly laxative ; the highest class, containing the least 
amount of acidity, might be considered, perhaps, seda- 
tive, as they are wonderfully composing and com- 
forting. 

The Rhine and Palatinate wines are of a stronger and 
more spirituous character than the Moselle and Saar 
wines, and consequently are more generous, yet amongst 
these there are many equally light and similarly re- 
freshing. 

Excepting in the case of the lighter sorts, we should 
recommend greater moderation in the enjoyment of these 
than of the Moselle wines. 

Amongst the finest wine growths are the following : 



L 



160 GERMAN WINES. 

Bheingaueb. Palatinate. 

Marcobrunner, (light and very Dei desheimer, (fine, full, rather 

wholesome, diuretic). sweet wine). 

RuDE8HEiMER,(full-bodiedstout Porster, (soft delicate wine, de- 
wine, generous). licious bouquet). 

Johann i sb erger Cabinet, Ruppertsberger, (very fine 

(fine, aromatic wine). full-bodied wine, frequently 

Steinberger Cabinet, (very almost spicy), 
fine, grand wine, full-bodied). 

To say that any of the wines just named are specially 
diuretic, laxative, sedative, tonic, etc., would be hardly to 
represent them correctly, as they all possess these quali- 
ties more or less, according to the quality, vintage, age, 
e«/C«, Cwv/.j cuCt 

There are twenty or more distinctions of quality to 
be had in each growth, containing more or less alcohol, 
saccharine, vinous acid, fixed acid, volatile acid, tannin, 
etc., etc., according to the nature of the host of circum- 
stances which have operated upon the production of the 
wine from the commencement to the completion of the 
process, and which differ with every season. 

When invalids require wines for certain cases and 
objects, they ought, after having consulted their medical 
adviser as to the nature or character of the wine that 
suits their case, to entrust their order to a wine mer- 
chant who understands his business and who is 
thoroughly conversant with the nature of the different 
wines constituting his stock. As a sedative he will give 
them a fine dry clean old neutral' wine, no matter 
whether a Deidesheimer or Forster ; as a diuretic he will 
give them a wine containing much vinous and fruit 
(apple) acid : as a stomachic he will select a wine having 
a considerable proportion of tannin; and to the low 
spirited and down-cast he will give a fine wholesome dry 
and sparkling wine. 



GERMAN WINES. 161 

Amongst the Red Wines of Germany we have several 
excellent sorts, suitable especially for convalescents and 
as family wines. Assmannshauser, and especially Ober- 
ingelheimer from the Rhine, and the fine Walporzheimer 
wines from the valley of the Ahr, are fine stomachic 
wines and great blood enrichers ; in anaemic and other 
constitutions exhausted by debility and also in per- 
sons of the phosphatic diathesis, these wines are recom- 
mended. 

Of the Sparkling Wines of Germany, a pure Moselle, 
without muscatel and other artificial flavouring, is the 
most wholesome, and in cases of weak digestion I should 
consider such a wine decidedly preferable to Champagne. 
I have seen wind on the stomach, which had almost 
constantly troubled the sufferer for three or four weeks 
to an alarming degree, entirely and effectually cured (so 
that during three weeks subsequently no recurrence 
whatever of the malady was perceived) simply by the 
use of a bottle of fine sparkling Moselle and £ lb. dry, 
hard, short biscuits, taken about four hours and a half 
after luncheon; the stomach was gently brought into 
action by the wine and biscuits, the wind was expelled, 
the whole frame became warm through, and a sense of 
extreme comfort ensued. By gently acting upon the 
stomach, and subsequently upon the bowels, liver, and 
kidneys, the wine no doubt removed to a great extent 
the causes which produced the wind, and hence the relief 
experienced for so long. 

When fatigued, especially in hot weather, there is no 
better reviver than a glass of half soda-water and half 
still Hock or fine Moselle. 



M 



162 HUNGARIAN WINES. 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 

Mr. Max Greger says he can speak with the utmost 
confidence of the medicinal properties of the different 
kinds of Hungarian wine, not only from many years of 

grown, but from reports that have been forwarded to 
him, in hundreds of letters, by medical men who have 
prescribed these wines in their practice. 

In prescribing Hungarian wines, it must be borne in 
mind that they are far richer in grape-sugar, and in con- 
sequent alcohol, than any of the French and German 
wines; they therefore require a year or two longer to 
finish fermentation, that is to say, to accomplish their 
maturity. It is, therefore, of the greatest importance to 
obtain these wines from such sources as may leave no 
doubt that they are, first, genuine, and, secondly, matured. 

Hungarian wines, generally speaking, are full in body ; 
and whilst most other cheap light wines will produce a 
feeling of coldness, a glass of good Hungarian wine will 
produce a sensation of warmth all over the body. 

In anaania and chlorosis, and in exhaustion from loss 
of blood, especially by women after childbirth, and in 
chronic nose-bleeding, great benefit is derived from the 
use of the Hungarian Red wine, Carlowitz. It is also 
administered with advantage in bilious disorders, slug- 
gihs action of the liver, and hsemorrhagic affections. 

Ofner Auslese is prescribed with excellent effect in 
diarrhoea, and if the case is urgent, half an ounce of cin- 
namon and an ounce of cane-sugar are added to one 
bottle of wine, which, if well boiled together for half-an- 
hour and taken hot at bedtime, will produce a very 



GREEK WINES. 163 

agreeable soothing effect on the bowels. In Hungary, 
Ofner Auslese is the household remedy for diarrhoea, 
especially during cholera epidemics.* 

Amongst the White wines of Hungary Somlau should 
be selected as a substitute for the so-called dry sherries 
of Spain; and (Edenburg and Ruster Ausbruch (dry), 
where the tartaric acid contained in all red wines seems 
objectionable. 

The Ruster is especially valuable in convalescence 
from exhausting diseases, sleeplessness and weak diges- 
tion, and in Hungary is considered a valuable sedative 
in neuralgia ; while the (Edenburg finds especial favour 
with gouty persons, many of whom have been unable 
to touch any other kind of wine. It has distinctly 
diuretic properties attributed to it. 

The different kinds of Hungarian sparkling wines are 
pleasingly exhilarating, leaving but little after-depres- 
sion, even when they have been taken to excess. They, 
therefore, constitute a satisfactory stimulant where ex- 
hilaration rather than alcoholic stimulation is desired. 

The finest Crown Tokay is an extraordinarily restora- 
tive wine, spreading warmth throughout the body to 
the tips of the toes and fingers, and is therefore of sin- 
gular value to the old and feeble. It is, however, very 
rarely found of genuine quality, and when genuine is of 
' great cost. 



GREEK WINES. 

The following are the leading properties, in a Dietetic 
point of view, attributed to the wines of Greece : — 

* The French Tannin Wine— St. Rappael— is also of much 
value as an astringent restorative. 

M 2 



164 



ACIDITY, OOUT, AND RHEUMATISM. 



WINE. 


COLOUR. 


St. Elie 


Whit© 


Thera 


White 


Santorin 


Bed 


Kephesia 


Bed 


i> 


White 


Patras 


White 


i) 


Bed 


Como 


Bed 



PROPERTY. 

Stimulant and exhilarating. 
Restorative and supporting. 
Tonic and restorative. 
Astringent and blood-making. 
Refreshing and gently stimulating. 



Tonic and stimulant. 
Restorative and nutritive. 



V 



ACIDITY, GOUT, AND RHEUMATISM, FROM FERMENTED 

LIQUORS. 

The question most frequently requiring consideration 
with regard to the selection of alcoholic beverages, is 
their tendency to encourage acidity and to promote gout 
or rheumatism. For practical purposes, these three 
questions may be merged in the second, viz., their gouty 
or non-gouty tendency. 

From long and careful consideration, both theoreti- 
cally and practically, of the production and composition 
of fermented liquors, and their effects upon digestion 
and disease, I have come to the conclusion that alco- 
holic drinks favour the tendency to gout, or actually 
produce it, in proportion to the quantity they contain 
of saccharine and albuminoid ingredients in which the 
processes of fermentation and decomposition have com- 
menced but have remained uncompleted. This head 
win especially include those full-bodied « fruity " wines, 
in which the course of fermentation has been stopped by 
added spirit, or in which it is incomplete from want of 
age (see pp. 149, 150) ; and malt liquors and cider, in 
which the process of fermentation is never thoroughly 
completed by the time they are considered in good con- 
dition for drinking. 



•* 



ARDENT SPIRITS AND THEIR PECULIARITIES. 165 

The least gouty alcoholic drinks are those spirits in 
which no unfermented compounds are present, and those 
wines in which vinous fermentation has become complete. 
But unfortunately these wines cannot be borne by acid 
stomachs, because complete fermentation of wines involves 
the production of much acid. If they are taken, there- 
fore, they must be mixed with enough alkaline mineral 
water to neutralise their excess of acid. 

It is important to remember that although a fluid may 
contain much acid, and therefore be unfit for some sto- 
machs, it will not generate acid if it is free from saccharine 
matter; whereas a fluid containing saccharine matter 
will generate acid although it may not contain any. 



ARDENT SPIRITS AND THEIR PECULIARITIES. . 

Brandy makes people nervous, Gin weakens, Bum and 
Whisky produce biliousness. Whisky is the least ob- 
jectionable. When Whisky produces biliousness, Bum, 
which has been made hot and then cooled, may be tried 
instead. 

The prominent objection to all ardent spirits, is, that 
they injure the lining of the digestive canal, and produce 
diseases of the liver and kidneys. The best means of 
preventing these dangerous effects is, free dilution with 
some unfermented liquid, and always taking food at the 
same time as alcohol, — the larger the quantity of food the 
better. No ardent spirits should be taken neat, and 
when mixed with water or other fluids they should be 
well incorporated by pouring many times from one 
vessel to another; otherwise, the unfermented liquid will 
be separated from the alcohol in the stomach, and the 
objects of dilution will, after all, be frustrated. 



TABLE XI.— ALCOHOL TABLE. 



The weight of absolute Alcohol (spec. gray. ' 


"93 at 60° Fht.) and of solid dissolved, in measured 1 




quantities of Spirituous Liquors. 








•»• This co- 






• 




■ ' 


SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 


lumn shows 
the quantity 
by measure 


102. 

Ayoird. 

of 
Carbon 
is con- 


One Imperial 
Pint contains 




Per Cent. 


* The strength of Ardent 
Spirits is arbitrary, the 


of each Spi- 
rituous Li- 
quor whioh 
oontainsONE 
OZ. AVOIRO. 
of absolute 
Alcohol. 




















strengths here given are the 
commercial average. 


tained 

in Fluid 

Ozs. 


Extract 

Ozs. 
Ayoird. 


, Carbon. 

Ozs. 

Avoird. 


Extract 


; Alcohol 


Equiva- 
lent of 
proof 
spirit. 




Fluid Oz. 














* m /Proof Spirit . . . . 


226 


43 


— 


4-6 


— 


57-15 


100 


gglWhisky 


2-6 


5-0 


01 


4-0 


0-6 


48-3 


84*5 


2-7 


60 


0-2 


40 


1-2 


471 


82-4 


« fc 1 Rum . . . * . . 


2*8 


6-3 


0-2 


3*8 


1-1 


450 


78-8 


^ \ Gin (sweetened) . . 


3-2 


5-5 


0*9 


36 


4-5 


39-8 


69-6 


/Port 


6-9 


10-2 


11 


20 


6-5 


220 


38-6 




Lisbon (White) 


9-0 


7*8 


3*5 


2-6 


16-1 


120 


21-0 






7-3 


11-2 


0-9 


1-8 


4-4 


160 


28*0 






6-8 


110 


0-7 


1-8 


3-5 


22-0 


38-5 




Sherry (of commerce) 


6-6 


100 


1-0 


20 


4-6 


20-6 


36-0 




,, Montilla and \ 
Amontillado . . ) 


6*8 


10-1 


1-1 


2*0 


6-6 


18-3 


32-0 




„ Natural .. .. 


9-0 


7*8 


1-5 


2*6 


6-2 


14-5 


25-3 






7'5 


11-7 


0-9 


1-7 


4-4 


19-5 


34-0 




Eousillon (Masdeu).. 


6-3 


8-5 


1-7 


2-4 


80 


20*6 


360 






15-2 


23*8 


0-4 


0-8 


1-8 


120 


21*0 




Chablis (Montrachet) 


19-0 


27*0 


0*6 


0-7 


2-3 


120 


21-0 




Claret 


16-3 


23*4 


0-5 


0-8 


2-6 


11-5 


20*0 


• 
CO 

« 

ft 


Sauterne (Chateau ) 
d' Yquem) . . ) 


9-0 


7'8 


3*6 


2*6 


16-1 


120 


21-0 


-£ 


Hock (Johannisberg) 


13*4 


20-4 


0-5 


1-0 


2*5 


12*0 


210 






162 


23*3 


0*4 


08 


2-0 


12-0 


21-0 




Champagne and \ 


















other effervescing | 


12-6 


11-3 


2*3 


1-8 


11-0 


13-5 


23-6 




or sparklingwines J 


















Hungarian Red. . \ 
(Carlowitz) ) 


141 


21-2 


0-5 


0-9 


2*5 


14-5 


25*3 




„ WhxU \ 
(Somlau) ) 

„ Imperial \ 

Tokay (essenz) ) 

Constantia (ifaf and | 

WhiU) .. .. j 


19*0 


28-3 


0-4 


0-7 


1-8 


120 


21-0 




90 


7-8 


35 


2-6 


16-1 


10-3 


180 




90 


7*8 


2-8 

• 


2-6 


15*0 


11-5 


20-0 


\ Frontignac . . . . 


90 


77 


3-4 


2-4 


15-8 


10-3 


18-0 




64-0 


400 


0-8 


0*6 


3-7 


62 


9-1 


/Ale, Burton, Bass 84s. 


12-6 


90 


3 4 


2-2 


15-7 


10-1 


17*6 




99 9* 91 bUs. 


14-2 


13-0 


20 


1-5 


9-6 


8-9 


16-6 




,, Pale ,, 60s. 


190 


17-5 


1-5 


1-1 


70 


6-6 


11*6 


a 


,, India (Gardner) \ 
X 54s / 


23-0 


28*0 


0-6 


0-7 


30 


5*5 


9-6 


o 

M 1 


( Scotch \ 
„ Bottled J (Edin.) ) 


19-0 


131 


2-4 


1-5 


11-4 


8 


140 


^ \ [ Pale . . 


250 


20*6 


1-4 


10 


6-6 


50 


8-7 


H 


„ "Eightpenny". . 


22-7 


22-2 


11 


0-9 


5-4 


6-7 


9*9 




,, Family Is. gallon 


24*9 


220 


1-2 


0-9 


5-7 


5-4 


9*4 


S 


,, "Fourpenny".. 


264 


230 


11 


0-8 


53 


5-2 


91 


Stout, Dublin (bottled) 


20-8 


167 


1-7 


1*2 


8-2 


61 


10*6 1 




L ,, London . . 


21*5 


18-9 


1-5 


1-1 


6-9 


69 


10*3 1 




\Porter, London. . 


35*6 


26-6 


1-2 


08 


6-6 


3*7 


6*4 1 



* 20 Fluid oz. = 1 Imperial pint (measure). 16 oz. ayoird. = 1 pound f weight). 



167 



Chapter IX. 

SPECIAL RECIPES, DIRECTIONS, AND APPLI- 
ANCES FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 

Farinaceous Articles. — Beef Tea. — Liebig's Extract of Meat. — 
Brand's Meat Jelly and Solid Beef Tea. — Valentine's Meat 
Juice. — Darby's Fluid Meat. — Van Abbott's Extract of Vege- 
tables. — Malt Extracts. — Porridge. — Eggs. — Whey. — Chest- 
nuts. — Nuts. — Animal Foods Re-cooked. — Bread. — Special 
Restorative. — Special Nutritive. — Milk, Cocoa and Egg. — 
Suet and Milk. — Invalid Soup. — Milk with Bum, Brandy, or 
Whisky. — Condensed Milk. — Artificial Human Milk. — Kou- 
miss. — Combinations of Alimentary Principles in Normal 
Proportions. — Port Wine Jelly. — Sponge Cake and Brandy. — 
Nutritive Enemata. — Nutritive Mixture. — Cerealin Tea. — 
Panada. — Fish, Rissole. — Fresh Roe of Fish.— Substitute for 
Lobster. — Rabbit. — Poultices and Poulticing by Steam. — 
Bronchitis Kettles. — Warm Baths. — Inhalations. — Lights and 
Coals in the Sick Room. — Freezing Mixture. — The Heart- 
Bed. — Treatment of Obstinate Constipation and Obstruction. 
— Appointment Dial. 

As this does not profess to be a " cookery book " only 
special medical-food recipes will be given, with some 
directions for the cookery and appliances of the sick-room 
which cannot easily be found elsewhere.* For the ordi- 
nary kitchen recipes the reader is referred to the books 
of Miss Acton and Mrs. Beeton, to Cre-fydd's " Family 
Fare! 9 Warne's " Cookery!' etc. 

1. Farinaceous Articles should all be submitted to 
a temperature of 212° Faht, (boiling point of water) 
to make them digestible. (See Malt Extracts, p. 169.) 

2. Beef Tea should not be boiled, and should not be 
strained through a fine sieve or muslin. It should be 

° See p. 101, On Modes of Cooking in Common Use. 



168 valentine's meat juice. 

made as follows. Take of Eumpsteak, free from fat and 
minced, 1 lb., cold water 1 pint, a pinch of salt. Put them 
into a jar and tie it down. After it has stood for one 
hour, place the jar in a saucepan of cold water, raise 
this water slowly to boiling, and keep it slowly- 
boiling for one hour. Remove the jar and strain its 
contents through a very coarse sieve, so that all finely 
powdered sediment may run through. Then pass a 
piece of bread over the surface to remove any fat that 
may float upon it. If the beef tea has been allowed to 
get cold before it is wanted, remove all congealed fat 
from the surface, and then place the jar again in the 
saucepan and boil the water in the saucepan till the tea 
is sufficiently hot, but do not boil the beef tea. 

3. Liebig's Extract of Meat and other similar 
preparations. It is important to bear in mind that 
these contain very little, if any, nourishment properly 
so called; that is to say, they contain no plastic material, 
no fat, no saccharine matter. (See Normal Diet.) Their 
principal virtues belong to the class of stimulants and 
blood-toiucs. When mixed with water, they are excel- 
lent menstrua in which to administer nutritive materials, 
such as eggs, bread, oatmeal, corn-flour, vermicelli ; but 
without such additions they are quite incapable of sup- 
porting life for any length of time. Baron Liebig's own 
writings support this statement. Unless these facts are 
borne in mind a patient may easily be starved un- 
intentionally. 

4. Brand's Meat Jelly and Brand's Solid Beef. 
Tea are excellent aijd reliable nutrients ; they may be 
obtained through a Chemist. 

5. Valentine's Meat Juice is a most useful nutrient 
for the sick-room. It contains albumen in solution, and 



MALT EXTRACTS. 169 

hence must not be made hot A teaspoonful in a wine- 
glassful of cold water, wine, or aerated water is a re- 
freshing change upon the usual list of warm foods, and 
is very convenient for sudden use in the room. 

6. Darby's Fluid Meat. This is a valuable prepara- 
tion (1875). It contains all the constituents of lean meat, 
including fibrine, gelatine, and albumen ; and by the 
process pursued these are all brought into a condition 
in which they are soluble in water and are not any 
longer coagulable on heating — in which state they have 
been designated Peptones. This change is effected, as in 
ordinary digestion, by means of pepsine, pancreatine and 
hydrochloric acid. 

7. Van Abbott's Dietetic Extract of Vegetables 
is a well-flavoured powerful essence of garden produce 
for giving an appetising taste to Extracts of Meat, Beef 
Tea, and the like. 

8. Malt Extracts are a valuable addition to our list 
of nutrients and digestives. The diastase which they 
contain has a rapid and powerful effect upon all fari- 
naceous matters, promoting their digestion and assimi- 
lation, and thus assisting in fattening. But there is 
no ground for the assertion that they can take the place 
of fats and oils. 

"In order to secure all the advantages which can 
possibly be derived from malt extracts, it is necessary to 
follow Nature's processes, not to traverse them. Conse- 
quently, malt extract should be taken either (1) with 
farinaceous food; or (2) immediately after such food. For 
the first it is admirably adapted by its properties, being 
sweet and toothsome, so that it can be added to farina- 
ceous messes, with or without milk, previous to their 
being eaten. One caution is, however, necessary, and 



170 MALT EXTRACTS. 

that is — it should not be added until the mess has so far 
cooled that it can be sipped. Diastase is killed by a tem- 
perature above 147° Faht., and this is the highest tempe- 
rature at which anything can be sipped. Consequently, 
when the food has become so cool that the nurse can sip 
it, then the malt extract may be added. It may either 
be mixed throughout the farinaceous matter, or eaten 
with it, as the case may be, according to the nature of 
the food. Or it may be taken immediately after the 
farinaceous food has been swallowed, so as to operate 
before the stomach has become too highly acid. 

" Such, then, is the proper use of malt extracts in order 
to secure the full action of the diastase contained in them. 

" Beyond such use as an artificial digester of farina or 
starch, malt extracts have a lesser utility. They contain 
the phosphates of the grain, and a certain portion of the 
starch transformed into sugar or dextrine ; consequently 
they are highly nutritive. They can thus advantageously 
be added to milk either for invalids, or dyspeptics, or for 
young infants whose salivary digestion of starch is either 
only developing or is imperfectly developed." (Dr. 
Milner Fothergill, " Medical Press and Circular" October 
12, 1881.) 

The nicest forms of malt extract are " Kepler's Malt 
Extract," and "Maltine." 

Most valuable and palatable preparations of farinacise, 
digested by diastase, are provided under the names of 
"Savory and Moore's Liebig's Food for Invalids and 
Infants," and " Allen and Hanbury's Malted Farinaceous 
Food." In addition to the usual methods of using these 
foods, I advise them to be made into a sort of " white 
soup," with which to commence the invalid's dinner. The 
taste may be varied by adding some of " Van Abbott's 



WHEY. 171 

Dietetic Extract of Vegetables," or any other wholesome 
flavouring. 

9. Porridge. — Oatmeal (Scotch) 2 to 3 oz. ; water, 
1 pint. Put the water into a stewpan, and as it boils 
dredge in the oatmeal with one hand, and with the other 
stir with a spoon. Turn out into a soup-plate, add salt 
to the taste, pour over it half-a-pint of cold milk. Eat 
with a spoon, mixing the oatmeal and milk together 
little by little. (A little Pancreatine or Malt Extract 
taken after the porridge, will facilitate its digestion.) 

10. Eggs for the sick should, as a rule, be either raw or 
very lightly boiled. But thin slices of hard-boiled egg, 
with salt and pepper, in sandwiches of bread and butter, 
may be given in some cases as the first step from fluid to 
solid food. 

White of Egg differs from the yelk principally in 
containing no fat. On this account it is often better 
borne by bilious persons. Yelk of egg contains 29*8 per 
cent, of fat ; when the stomach can bear it, therefore, it 
is a more complete nutriment than the white. But 
white of egg beaten up in milk answers every purpose. 

11. Whey may be made either with Essence of 
Rennet, or with treacle, or with sherry, according to 
circumstances. 

u. Rennet Whey. — See the directions on the Essence 

of Rennet bottles.* 
b. Treacle Whey. — Pour three table-spoonfuls of best 

treacle into a pint of new milk while it is boiling ; 

see that it boils up once after the treacle is added ; 

set it aside to cool, and then strain. 

° The best essences are "Warren's," sold by Crosse and 
Blackwel), and "Michell's," sold by Baynham, Rye Lane, Eeck- 
ham. 



172 NUTS. 

c. White Wine Whey is made in the same manner as 
treacle whey, three glasses of sherry being used 
to a pint of milk. 

"Whey, carefully prepared without acid, and free 
from fat and caseine, is not objectionable to the most 
delicate digestion. It contains nearly all the salts 
existing in whole milk. The phosphates are decreased, 
but the chlorides are greatly increased, as will be seen 
from the following figures : — 

Whole milk contains 0*75 per cent, of salts. 
Whey „ 0-60 „ 

Koughly speaking — 

The salts in milk are : Phosphates, 67 per cent. 

Chlorides, 33 



100 



The salts in whey are : Phosphates, 40 per cent. 

Chlorides, 60 



100 



"It is therefore evident that whey is of immense 
value to persons whose blood is deficient in chlorides." 
(See Aylesbury Dairy Company's statement.) 

Note. — When a more nutritious food is desired and 
suitable, well beat up the curds with the whey, instead 
of straining ; see that they are not in lumps. 

12. Chestnuts baked quite to a meal, are readily 
digested by those who can digest farinaceous foods. 

13. Nuts beaten to a pulp in a mortar, either alone 
or with milk, form a highly nutritious and digestible 
food. 



i> 



SPECIAL NUTRITIVE. 173 

Both the above (12 and 13) are exceedingly indi- 
gestible in their natural state. (See p. 98.) 

14. All Animal Foods are apt to lose digestibility by 
repeated cooking. (See "Modes of Cooking" p. 101.) 

15. Bread should be either toasted or twenty- four 
hours old. (See p. 93.) 

16. Special Restorative. In cases of great exhaus- 
tion I have found the following to be a most efficient 
restorative food, and the mixture is agreeable to most 
palates : — 

New milk (cold), 5 table-spoonfuls. 

Beef tea (cold) 4 

Brandy (pale) 1 
If no other food is taken, the above quantity (about a 
quarter of a pint Imperial) should be given every 2 
hours, or half that quantity every hour, that is 3 pints 
in 24 hours containing 6 ounces of brandy. It should 
be sucked out of a syphon Infant's-feeding bottle, not 
drunk out of a spoon or cup. As the patient rallies, 
the proportion of brandy should be diminished. When 
desirable this food may be gradually thickened by the 
addition of boiled corn-flour or other farinaceous articles 
(See No. 8) ; or one egg may be well beaten up in each 
half pint. The flavour may be varied by adding dif- 
ferent spices. 

17. Special Nutritive. (Pancreatised milk, egg, and 
arrowroot, with wine or brandy.) Beat up an egg both 
white and yelk, quite smooth and free from stringy 
particles; stir it well into half a pint of hot milk in which 
enough arrowroot has been boiled to make it about as 
thick as cream ; add a wine-glassful of sherry or a table- 
spoonful of pale brandy, and some fresh nutmeg and 
sugar ; mix all thoroughly by pouring from cup to cup, 



174 INVALID SOUP. 

and when it is just cool enough to be borne by the 
mouth, stir in ten grains of pancreatine powder (Savory 
and Moore's). On this food alone, repeated every four 
hours, a patient can be well supported for a considerable 
time. A person living entirely upon this diet should 
drink fresh-made lemonade when thirsty. 

18. Milk, Cocoa, and Egg (Pancreatized).— Beat up 
an egg, both white and yelk, quite smooth and free from 
stringy particles, stir it into half a pint of hot milk, add 
sugar and a teaspoonful of soluble cocoa, previously 
liquefied with a little of the milk, and when it is just 
cool enough to be borne by the mouth put in ten grains 
of pancreatine powder, and mix well. This forms an 
excellent breakfast, easily taken by those who cannot 
eat in the early part of the day ; and it digests itself. 
(It is well to know that egg is not detectible in cocoa, 
although it is in tea or coffee.) 

19. Suet and Milk (Pancreatised). Put a table- 
spoonful of shredded beef suet into half a pint of fresh 
milk, warm it sufficiently to completely melt the suet, 
then skim it, pour it into a warm glass or cup, and 
drink it before it cools. If there is any difficulty in 
digesting the suet add 10 gr. of Savory and Moore's 
Pancreatine powder. 

20. Invalid Soup. The following Invalid Soup has 
proved extremely useful in a large number of cases, 
and since I first published the recipe in 1864 it has 
been usually kept nicely prepared by Donges (now 
Haddow), Confectioner, Gower Street, W.C. 

Gravy beef 1 lb., scrag of mutton 1 lb., isinglass 
2 oz., vermicelli 3 oz., mushroom ketchup 3 tablespoon- 
fuls, corns of allspice 24, sage a sprig, cold water 3 
quarts ; put the isinglass and the meat cut small into 



PANCREATISED MILK. 175 

the cold water, gradually boil, skim well, and then add 
the other ingredients ; simmer four or five hours till 
reduced to one quart ; strain through a fine hair sieve, 
and carefully remove all fat, add salt ta the taste. This 
may be taken cold as a jelly, or warm as a soup. 
Calf s-foot may be used instead of isinglass when pro- 
curable ; and when allowable a little solution of cayenne 
pepper may be added; and the taste may be varied 
by the addition of a little Worcester, or other whole- 
some sauce. A full dose of Pancreatine powder should 
either be mixed with the soup before it is taken, or 
given immediately afterwards. 

21. Dr. W. Roberts, of Manchester, gives the following 
formulae for pancreatised milk and pancreatised milk 
gruel, called by him " Peptonized." (See Appendix.) 

a. Milk 1 pint, boiling water (temp. 212°) 1 pint. 
This should give a temperature of about 120° to 130° for 
the mixture. Add £ss. of Liq. Pancreaticus, and 20 grs. 
of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in water. Put the 
whole into a covered jug under a cosey for one hour ; 
at the end of that time boil. After having been boiled, 
this pancreatised milk will keep for twelve hours. 

Pancreatised milk is well prepared by the Aylesbury 
Dairy Co. 

b. Cold milk 1 pint, well-boiled gruel boiling hot 
(temp. 212°) 1 pint. The temperature of the mixture 
should be from 120° to 130°. Liq. Pancreaticus |ss., 
bicarbonate of soda 20 grs. dissolved in water. Put the 
whole into a covered jug under a cosey for an hour, and 
then boil. 

If these preparations are to be used at once they need 
not be boiled. 

Neither of them can compare in nutritive value with 



176 CONDENSED MILK. 

the "Special Nutritive," Np. 17, or " Pancreatised Cocoa, 
Milk and Eggs," No. 18 ; and in the publication of Dr. 
Boberts's papers at a later date (although he has not 
stated that such is the case) he has advised an imitation 
of my plans for administering pancreatised foods. He 
says (p. 110, " On the Digestive Ferments, 9 ' etc., 1880), 
" There is a modification of this plan (a and b) which I 
have lately put in practice, which promises better results. 
It is to add the Extract (Pancreatic) to the food fifteen 
or twenty minutes before it is eaten. This mode of 
administering pancreatic preparations is simple and 
convenient. No addition of alkali is required, and of 
course no final boiling. The only precaution to be 
observed is that the temperature of the food, when the 
Extract is added, should not exceed 150° F. This point 
is very easily ascertained, for no food can be tolerated 
by the mouth, even when taken in sips, which has a 
temperature above 140° F." 

22. Milk with Bum, Brandy, or Whisky. Put one 
tablespoonful of rum, brandy, or whisky into half a 
pint of new milk, and mix well by pouring several 
times from one vessel to another. "Bilious" persons 
should heat the rum before adding it to the milk. 

23. Condensed Milk. Mr.OttoHehner,F.C.S., Fellow 
of the Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain, etc., etc., 
says: — " Some time ago I analysed a number of samples 
of condensed milk, purchased at different shops in 
London, and representing seven of the principal 
brands. The results are given in detail in a paper 
read before the Society of Public Analysts, printed 
in the Analyst for March, 1879. The amount of ' milk- 
solids, not fat/ varied from 22*46 to 27*03 per cent., 
corresponding to a condensation of from 2'41 to 2*9 



CONDENSED MILK. 177 

parts of normal cow's milk into one part; the fat 
fluctuated between 613 and 12*76 per cent. ; the cane- 
sugar from 36*74 to 50*08 per cent. ; and the mineral 
matter from 1*74 to 2*20. The average amount of con- 
densation was 2*69 to 1; or, in order to get a milk 
containing the same amount of 'milk-solids not fat/ as 
did the original cow's milk, to one part by weight of 
the condensed milk, 1*69 parts by weight of water 
must be added. Or, since the average specific gravity 
of the samples was 1*281, to one part by volume of 
condensed milk, 2*45 volumes of water must be added 
to obtain a liquid with 9*3 per cent, of 'milk-solids not 
fat/ The amount of total solids (average in the con- 
densed milk 76*26 per cent.) contained in the milk thus 
diluted would then be, on account of the very large 
amount of cane sugar, 28*3 per cent. If, however, the 
milk be so diluted that it contains 12 per cent, of total 
solids, that is to say, to the strength of cow's milk, its 
most important constituents, namely, casein, fat, and 
phosphates are reduced to less than one-half their proper 
quantities. 

" In human milk the proportion of nitrogenous matter 
to carbonaceous matter (one part of fat being reckoned as 
equal to 2*4 parts of sugar) is as 1 to 4*3 ; in condensed 
milk only as 1 to 7*7. Thus condensed milk contains far 
too small a proportion of flesh-forming materials to be Me 
to serve as a substitute for mother's milk* 

"Contrast with the calculations above given — and 
which it must be remembered are based upon the 
analyses — the directions given by the manufacturers : — 
'For infants add 7 to 10 parts of water' (Anglo-Swiss 
milk made abroad) ; 'add from 7 to 14 parts of water ' 
(Anglo-Swiss milk made in England) ; ' 7 to 10 parts of 

N - 



178 ARTIFICIAL HUMAN MILK. 

water* (Helvetia); 'from 15 to 18 parts of water' 
(Norwegian). 

"Assuming that human milk contains one-third less 
casein than does cow's milk, although the difference is 
not in reality so great> we ought to add to one spoonful 
of condensed milk 3*6 parts of water, instead of from 
7 to 18. If the dilution be actually made in the propor- 
tion of from 1 to 18, then the liquid is but little more nourish- 
ing than a dilute cane-sugar solution, containing as it does no 
more than 068 per cent, of casein against the upwards of 
3 per cent, of human milk. 

"The use of condensed milk necessarily leads to a 

that the proportion of casein is not less than 3 per cent, 
as in human milk (in that case, the milk is intensely 
sweet, and certainly indigestible and heavy, and quite 
unfit for infants' diet) ; or the dilution is carried to such 
an extent that the amount of solids in the diluted milk 
corresponds with that in normal human milk ; but then 
the nitrogenous matter, the fat and the phosphates, are 
so much reduced, that their amounts are far smaller than 
are requisite for proper and perfect nutrition. 

" Condensed milk, in fine, may be useful and excellent 
for a great variety of purposes, and in cases where fresh 
milk is not obtainable ; but it should not be regarded, as 
it is by Mr. G. Worthington, and unfortunately by a 
great part of the ignorant public, as 'as close a repre- 
sentation of human milk as can possibly be obtained.' " 

24. Artificial Human Milk. — Professor Frankland, 
F.R.S., thus writes : — " The rearing of infants who can- 
not be supplied with their natural food is notoriously 
difficult and uncertain, owing chiefly to the great 



KOUMISS. 179 

difference in the chemical composition of human milk 
and cow's milk. The latter is much richer in casein, and 
poorer in milk sugar than the former, whilst asses' milk* 
which is sometimes used for feeding infants, is too poor 
in casein and butter, although the proportion of sugar is 
nearly the same as in human milk. The relations of the 
three kinds of milk to each other are clearly seen from 
the following analytical numbers, which express the 
percentage amounts of the different constituents ": — 





Woman. 


Ass. 




Cow. 


Casein 


• •• Ml • •• 


1-7 


•»• 


4-2 


Butter 


• •• *J ••• 


1-3 


• a. 


3-8 


Milk Sugar 


5*0 


45 


• •• 


3-8 



Salts 



... 



Artificial human milk, exactly corresponding to the 
foregoing analysis, is prepared daily by the Aylesbury 
Dairy Company. (See Diet and Regimen of Children, 
Chap. IV.) 

25. Koumiss, as now sent out by the Aylesbury Dairy 
Company, instead of being, as heretofore in England, a 
disagreeable drink, only tolerated in cases of extremity, 
isTw for the first Le brought before the English 
public in a palatable form and at a reasonable 7™, 
and is being prepared in the Company's laboratory, by 

tained from Russia, where it has so long been used 
and valued. (See 2nd edit, of the Author's work " On 
Loss of Weighty etc., p. 241.) 

Koumiss, when properly prepared, is a highly re- 
freshing effervescent preparation of milk, obtained by 
a natural process of fermentation, in which the albumen 
and casein are partially digested by a natural process, 
while its abundance of free carbonic acid makes it 

n2 



180 COMBINATION OF ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

sedative to the most irritable stomach, so that it has 
succeeded in numerous cases recorded by medical prac- 
titioners, where stimulants, beef-tea, and rectal enemata, 
aided by the most varied pharmacopoeial treatment had 
alike failed. Its chief qualities are : — 

a. Its agreeable, refreshing, and highly digestible 
character. 

b. Its attested and rare powers of nutrition in the most 
desperate cases of emaciation, chronic vomiting, dyspepsia, 
gastric pain and irritability, and of debility following 
acute, or accompanying chronic, diseases. 

c. The avidity and pleasure with which it is drunk 
by children, women and men in health and disease, and 
its remarkable success in allaying vomiting and gas- 
tralgia, and in restoring the nutrition.* 

26. Simple Combinations of Alimentary Principles 
in nearly exact normal proportions. (See " Essentials 
of a Normal Diet," Chapter III.) 

a. Flour 4 oz., sugar 1J oz., suet £ oz., milk £ pint 
Imperial, and one egg. — This will make a good pudding, 
or it may be given in any other form desired ; with the 
addition of a little cress, salt, and water, it forms a 
complete diet, upon a sufficient quantity of which a per- 
son can live healthfully for an indefinite length of time 
without any other food. 

b. The same may be said of the following. — Rice, 3 oz., 
sugar 1 oz., butter J oz., milk | pint (Imperial), two eggs, 
and water as much as is sufficient to boil the rice in. 

p. Suet J lb., flour 1 lb., water 13 oz. These quantities 
when boiled yield 2 lbs of pudding. 

27. The recipes for the following useful forms of food 
may be found in Warne's and most other cookery books : 

It ought to be drunk while foaming with effervescence. 



NUTRITIVE ENEMATA. 181 

Pur£e of Carrots, of Potatoes, of Turnips, of Celery, 
of Peas : Pur£e de Volaille : Souffles of Fowl : Haricot 
Beans : Croquettes of Fowl and Rice : Mouse de Volaille 
(fowl pounded in a mortar). 

28. Port Wine Jelly. Take of port wine 1 pint, 
isinglass 1 oz., sugar 1 oz. ; put the isinglass and sugar 
into J pint of water, warm till all is dissolved, then add 
the wine, strain through muslin and set to jelly. (An 
excellent way of giving port wine.) 

Another form, firm enough to carry in the pocket, or 
put under the pillow at night, cut up in cubes, may be 
made as follows : 

Take isinglass and gum Arabic of each an ounce, dis- 
solve in a pint of port wine over a slow fire ; sweeten 
with loaf sugar to the taste, and after straining through 
a fine sieve, grate in a small nutmeg. Take about a 
cubic inch when feeling weak or exhausted. 

29. Sponge Cake and Brandy. Pour a dessert- 
spoonful of pale brandy upon a sponge cake, then drop 
it into half a breakfastcupful of boiling milk, and eat 
with a spoon as soon as cool enough. 

30. Nutritive Enemata. When nutriment is given in 
enemata the quantity should not exceed from 2 to 4 oz., 
and the temperature should be about 80°. 

The bowel should be first washed out with half a pint 
of warm water. An elastic bottle holding the required 
quantity is better for nutritive enemata than the ordinary 
enema syringe. They should be given while the patient 
is lying on the back with the hips raised on a pillow. 

The following pancreatised enema constitutes a most 
important means of preserving life when food cannot be 
given by the stomach ;— 

Take of cooked beef or mutton finely grated 3 oz. ; 



182 PANADA. 

Arrowroot (boiled) £ oz. 

Pancreatic Emulsion (Savory and Moore's) J oz. ; 

Pancreatine powder (Savory and Moore's) 20 grains ; 

Pepsine (Porci) 20 grains. 

Mix the whole in a warm mortar quickly, and add 
brandy one table-spoonful and enough warm water to 
bring the mixture to the consistence of treacle. Inject 
from an elastic enema bottle as quickly after the mix- 
ture is made as possible, and let it be retained. (See 
Appendix.) 

31. Nutritive Mixture. When a patient will take 
medicine but not food : — 

Liebig's Extract of Meat or Valentine's Meat Juice a 
tea-spoonful ; Extract of Malt a tea-spoonful (see Index 
for Malt Extracts); Tincture of Capsicum one drop; 
Compound Spirit of Horseradish a tea-spoonful ; Water 
2 table-spoonfuls. Mix well in a mortar. 

To be given every 3 or 4 hours. This will often bring 
back the desire for food. 

32. Cerealin Tea. Cerealin is contained in the white 
matter adhering to the inner side of the best fresh bran, 
its digestive power is suspended by a temperature above 
170° Faht The tea therefore should be made by in- 
fusing fresh bran (taking care to select that which has 
plenty of the cerealin upon it) in hot water of a tem- 
perature below 170°. It may be drunk freely at meals, 
with great advantage where the power of digesting 
gluten is defective, but should not be taken by those 
tcith over acid stomachs. (See p. 93, " Wheat Meal") 

33. Panada. Take the crumb of a penny roll and soak 
it in milk for half-an-hour, then squeeze the milk from 
it ; have ready an equal quantity of chicken or veal, 
scraped very fine with a knife ; pound the bread-crumbs 



BABBIT. 183 

and meat together in a mortar. This may be cooked 
either mixed with veal or chicken broth, or poached 
like an egg, by taking it up in two spoons, in pieces 
the shape of an egg, after seasoning it, and serving on 
mashed potato. 

34. Fish, Kissole. Sole, turbot, plaice or brill or 
whiting, finely mixed and beaten in a mortar with rice 
(previously boiled in water) and a little cream. Make 
into balls and brown in an oven. 

35. Fresh Koe of Fish. (See p. 93.) The hard roe 
of fish is singularly nutritious. It may be beaten up in 
a mortar with bread-crumbs and browned. 

The hard roe of a Yarmouth bloater, laid open and 
nicely toasted through, will often get down a slice of 
toast or of brown bread-and-butter, when the appetite is 
bad. 

Toasted or fried cod's roe is also excellent. 

36. Substitute fob Lobster. Turbot is much more 
easily digested than lobster, and when eaten cold with 
pepper and vinegar, the flavour is remarkably like that 
of lobster. Lobster salad may be well imitated by 
cutting strips of turbot and colouring the outside with 
beet-root. In this way invalids, fond of lobster but 
unable to digest it, may have their taste pleased and 
appetite thus promoted. 

37. Babbit — which is hard of digestion in the usual 
forms — may be made suitable for invalids by cutting it 
up and putting it into a jar with just enough cold water 
to cover it, then covering it down with a very thin pud- 
ding crust, and placing it in a slwv oven till thoroughly 
cooked, then turning it out to be eaten with its own 
gravy. This is also the proper tcay of making a rump 
steak pudding. 



184 POULTICING BY STEAM. 

38. Poultices, (a.) Linseed poultices should be made 
by filling a muslin bag with crushed linseed (not linseed 
meal), then putting it into a basin or dish, and pouring 
boiling water upon it. When thoroughly soaked it 
should be squeezed between towels till no water drips 
from it. The same poultice may be made hot four or five 
times by pouring fresh boiling water upon it. (6.) 
Bread poultices should be made of finely crumbled bread, 
treated in the same way as the linseed. The salt of 
the bread must be well washed out. (c.) A delightful 
poultice may be extemporised by wringing out a soft 
sponge in hot water, to which a little Condy's fluid 
has been added, and enveloping it in a pocket-hand- 
kerchief. 

Poulticing by Steam. A new means of applying 

EITHER MOIST OR DRY HEAT TO THE SURFACE OF THE 

body. At a meeting of the Abernethian Society of St. 
Bartholomew's Hospital, February 10th, 1853, I intro- 
duced the use of vulcanized rubber bags, filled with hot 
water, as a " new means of applying heat, and of main- 
taining the temperature of warm applications," and the 
suggestion has been followed to a considerable extent 
in the use of hot-water bags, as foot-warmers, stomach- 
warmers, and the like ; but the difficulty of preventing 
the water from accumulating in one part of the bag by 
gravitation, and (when this is prevented by septa and 
by completely filling the bag) the great weight of the 
water, have presented hitherto insuperable objections to 
the general use of large hot-water poultices, which in all 
other respects offer so many advantages. When the 
part to be poulticed can be placed upon the hot water 
bag, it answers perfectly. 

In the treatment of Bronchitis, Pneumonia, Peritonitis, 



FLUIDS FOR INHALATIONS. 185 

Phlebitis, and all other inflammatory affections occupying 
large areas, when it is desired to employ equable warmth 
for protracted periods, the difficulty of doing so in a 
satisfactory manner is only too familiar to all practical 
physicians and surgeons. 

This difficulty I removed in 1873 by an important 
modification of my original design, viz., the employment 
of Steam instead of Water, thereby getting rid of all the 
objections which prevented the complete success of my 
suggestion in 1853. 

Messrs. Maw supply the apparatus for Poulticing by 
Steam, with either dry or moist heat — adapted to any 
part of the body — at a moderate cost.* 

39. Bronchitis Kettles, now sold at most iron- 
mongers, are convenient appliances for impregnating the 
air rf a room with wa^n moisture either puTor medi- 
cated. Full directions for use are supplied with the 
kettles. 

Care must be taken that the room is not made faint 
by the amount of hot moisture with which the air is 
loaded, or much harm may be done. 

" The reduction in the supply of respired oxygen may 
be made by rarefying (as by altitude), or by diluting 
(as with aqueous vapour), the air supplied for respira- 
tion, and by reducing the amount of air respired by 
means of rest." (2nd Edition of the Author's work " On 
Loss of Weight;' etc., pp. 257—265.) 

40. Warm Baths should not exceed a temperature of 
98° without medical orders. 

41. Fluids for Inhalations should have a tempera- 
ture of about 170° Faht. 

This apparatus was exhibited at the meeting of the British 
Medical Association, in Norwich, August, 1874. 



186 THE HEART-BED, COUCH, OR CHAIR. 

42. The Lights in a Sick-Room should always be 
placed behind the patient, not in front. Gas should 
not be used at all. (See <l Ventilation?) Candles are 
better than lamps. 

43. Coals in the Sick-Koom.- "G. E., m ("Lancet" 
Nov. 17, 1866), says: The discordant clatter caused 
by the rattling of the iron shovel in the metal scuttle 
whenever coals are put on is a most irritating dis- 
turbance in the room of a sick person; and as any- 
thing tending to the comfort and quiet of an invalid is 
always welcome, I suggest the following simple plan, 
which prevents all noise, and costs nothing : — Fill the 
scuttle or coal-box with the coals screwed up in paper, 
each screw or packet containing about half a pound ; 
the screw part of the paper to be kept downward. 
The fire can thus be attended to without using the 
shovel, without soiling the hands, and without the 
slightest noise* 

44. Freezing Mixture. Well-pounded ice 2 lbs., salt 
1 lb., water 1 pint. 

45. The Heart-Bed, Couch, or Chair. (From the 
Author's work " On Affections of the Heart, etc") " There 
are few chronic cases of severe heart-disease, whether 
terminating in recovery or death, that do not pass 
through a stage in which the patient is unable to lie 
down, or even to lean back beyond the perpendicular 
line, without distress or danger, and there are many 
in which, at some period of their course, the only pos- 
sibility of sleep is to lean forward on pillows placed 
upon a table in front of the patient. 

" Dropsy of the lower extremities is produced long 
before it need be, by the continued maintenance of the 
sitting posture with the legs down, or by keeping 



THE HEART-BED, COUCH, OR CHAIR. 187 

them up when the patient is obliged to lean forward, 
and thus to compress the veins and lymphatics in the 
groins by keeping the trunk flexed at an acute angle 
with the thighs. 

"These difficulties of position go on for days and 
weeks, and — what with the pains in the back, due to 
the strain upon the lumbar muscles ; the sore arms and 
elbows, due to leaning upon them ; the disfigured fore- 
head and face due to the inequalities and other incon- 
veniences of the pillows upon which the head is rested ; 
the dropsy of the legs due to the force of gravity, and 
to compression of the veins and lymphatics at the 
groins ; the dropsy of the hands due to the constrained 
flexure of the elbows; the dropsy of the integuments 
of the abdomen, due to the constrictive bending forward 
at the waist ; the interference with the action of the 
stomach and bowels, due to the postural compression of 
the digestive organs ; the cramping of the diaphragm, 
and the hampering of the already obstructed heart, by 
the pressure of the abdominal organs upwards : and, in 
addition to all these, the difficulty of finding any sup- 
port for the head and elbows in front, that will not 
continually slip away, when the weight of the body is 
thrown upon it, and thus disturb the only opportunities 
of sleep : — these circumstances accumulated around a 
patient already suffering from a most distressing disease, 
combine to constitute a state of martyrdom of the most 
agonising and wearing description. 

"In attending such cases, whether in hospital or 
private practice, I have so often endeavoured, in vain, to 
find any couch, bed, or chair that would at all meet the 
necessities of the case ; and I have been so often distressed 
by the urgent appeals of patients and their friends for 



190 AN APPOINTMENT DIAL. 

lowing day. The operation is more simple and less 
dangerous than passing a tube from three to four feet 
long into the bowels, and it has for the last thirty years 
always been attended with success." 

An Appointment Dial (see p. 192) should be used 
in all Fevers, Inflammations, Surgical Cases, and other 
Acute Illnesses. 

Those who have been called upon to bear the respon- 
sibility of the Nursing in a severe case of Innutrition, 
Sickness, Fever, Inflammation, Surgical Operation, or 
the like, will have a vivid recollection of the difficulties 
they encountered in carrying out the various Medical 
Orders, upon the punctual attendance to which, through 
anxious days and nights, the patient's life depended. 

How to arrange the hours for Nutriment, for Medi- 
cine, for Wine, for Brandy, for dressing wounds, for 
external applications, for Sleep, etc., etc., without one 
important item clashing with another, is often a most 
puzzling question, requiring the details to be carefully 
considered and arranged in writing, before it is practicable 
to work them out. 

Not unfrequently the various orders left by the doctor 
are misunderstood, or found to be impracticable when 
they come to be put together and arranged according to time 
— the hours for dressing wounds or taking Medicine 
clashing with those for Food, the hours for Wine coming 
upon those for Brandy, or interfering with the necessary 
sleep, and so forth. When the doctor has gone, and, 
perhaps, as in country houses, or at night, cannot pos- 
sibly be consulted again for many hours, it is difficult 
to overstate the distress of friends and nurses on dis- 
covering that orders, which have been impressed on 
them with all the weight of questions of life and death, 



AN APPOINTMENT DIAL. 191 

cannot be implicitly carried out from want of a consistent 
arrangement of their details. 

Happily for the sick, and for the doctors, nursing is 
is now passing into the hands of educated and well 
trained women, competent to understand and to perform 
with intelligence that systematic nursing to which the 
enlightened practical Medicine of the present day 
attaches such vital importance. And the introduction of 
the Clinical Thermometer* and similar appliances into 
the sick room, makes it necessary in private houses 
(where there are no clinical assistants or house-surgeons 
as in hospitals) to entrust the nurse with the task of 
keeping a register of the temperature, the rate of pulse 
and respiration, etc., at hours when the doctor cannot be 
in attendance. 

The doctor who believes in the importance of his 
own orders will be strict in requiring at each visit 
an accurate report of how they have been obeyed. The 
nurse, who intends to obey them faithfully, will not be 
satisfied unless she sees that they are both intelligible 
and practicable before the doctor leaves the house, and 
she should write them down directly he is gone.f 

° Every house should be provided with a registering clinical 
thermometer and a book of blue litmus test paper, in readiness for 
sickness. 

f Appointment Dials, of which the wood-cut on the following 
page is a diminished copy, can be obtained, either printed on paper 
or on porcelain tablets, of Messrs. Maw, Son, and Thompson, at a 
small cost. 



192 AM J 



I 



a 

81 



I. 

5 



i! 



193 



Chapter X. 
DISINFECTION. 

Media by which the Catching Diseases are Communicated. — Means 
for Preventing Infection and Contagion. — Directions for the 
Sick Boom and Attendants. — Precautions to be used by 
Doctors — Proper Disinfection of Booms after Illness. — 
Methods of Using Chloride of Lime, Carbolic Acid, and 
Condy's Fluid. 

Infectious and Contagious (catching) diseases — Scarlet 
fever, Diphtheria, Small-pox, Measles, Typhus, Chicken- 
pox, Relapsing fever, Puerperal fever, Whooping-cough, 
Mumps, &c., — are communicated principally by the fol- 
lowing media :- 

1. The breath. 

2. The secretions and excretions. 

a. The saliva. 

b. The perspiration. 

c. The urine. 

d. The evacuations from the bowels. 

e. The sputa. 

S. The skin of the body ; especially the dead peeling 
skin and the powdered skin which adhere to clothing, 
and are wafted about in the air. 

4. The body-clothes. 

5. The bed-clothing. 

6. Discharges from eruptions, abscesses, wounds, &c. , 

7. The hair. 

o 



194 " DISINFECTION. 

8. The walls, floors, and furniture of apartments. 

It is probable that no infectious or contagious disease 
would spread if all these media were promptly disinfected. 

The difficulty lies, not in disinfecting any one of them 
when it is specially submitted to us, for that is easily 
done, but in keeping up such a rigorous system of dis- 
infection around the sick person that none of these 
media shall escape disinfection ; for common sense tells 
us that if only one escapes, the protection from infection 
may be lost 

It is evident that the disinfection of the secretions 
and excretions must be performed as they leave the 
body, so that the air may not be infected during 
their passage. For this reason the disinfectants put 
into spitting pots, urinals and bed pans should be 
Volatile, like Chlorine and Carbolic acid, so that an 
atmosphere of the disinfectant may rise from the 
utensils while they are being used. I, therefore, advise 
for these purposes Chloride of Lime and water, or 
Carbolic acid; and they have the advantage of con- 
tinuing to give off their disinfecting principles after 
the contents of the utensils are thrown down the 
drains.* 

For most other purposes Condy's fluid will suffice ; it 
is clean, free from offensive taste or smell, and not 
poisonous. It is not volatile, but it disinfects whatever 
comes in contact with it The air of a room, therefore, 
may be disinfected to a great extent by freely dispersing 
Condy's fluid with a spray producer. Clothes can be 

* We have now an agreeable and potent addition to our list of 
volatile antiseptics in Thymol, and in the convenient preparation 
of it called Shirley's Thymolene, well suited for nse in spray pro- 
ducers. 



DISINFECTION. 195 

disinfected by being soaked in it. The skin can be 
disinfected by being washed with it. Sponges can 
be disinfected by being soaked in it ; but sponges are 
dangerous spreaders of infection, and it is much better 
to use pieces of cloth, which can be burnt, and in cleans- 
ing wounds to irrigate them with a syringe. Linen and 
other washing materials can be disinfected by boiling, 
but they should be previously put into Condy's fluid or 
diluted Carbolic acid directly they are done with, and 
kept in it for about two hours, otherwise they may 
spread infection before they are boiled. For all these 
purposes Carbolic acid is most efficient, but its smell is 
objectionable. 

Whatever is not susceptible of boiling, but will bear 
baking, can be disinfected by being submitted to a tem- 
perature of from 212° to 250° in an oven, and for greater 
safety a little carbolic acid should be put into the oven 
at the time. 

When a catching disease occurs in a house : — 
1. The first thing to be done is — to select a room for 
the patient as much isolated as possible from the rest of 
the house ; a room through which no one has to pass and 
by which there are as few passers as possible ; the top of 
the house is best, as a rule. The room should have a 
window opening directly into the fresh air, and an open 
chimney and fireplace, and it should be supplied with not 
less than 1,000 cubic feet of fresh air every hour for each 
occupant, whether patient or attendant. (See Venti- 
lation, &c, p. 14) Whenever practicable, a second 
room should be set apart, near the patient's room, for the 
attendants to cook and take meals in, and to sleep in 
when off duty. 

o 2 



196 DISINFECTION. 

2. The second thing to be done is — to remove from 
the room or rooms selected everything that cannot be 
washed, boiled, baked, or burnt, and then to hang over 
the outside of each doorway a curtain kept constantly 
wet with Carbolic acid. 

3. The third thing is — to decide who is to attend upon 
the patient. There should always be two persons and 
no more. They should cover their hair with washing 
caps, dress in washing clothes, and not associate with the 
rest of the household or with any other persons. They 
should each take at least six hours' sleep out of the 
twenty-four. They should each walk out in the fresh air 
one hour per day. They should wash their hands and 
faces with Condy's fluid and water when they leave the 
patient's room. They should avoid inhaling the breath 
or exhalations of the patient, and they should neither 
eat nor drink in the sick-room. 

4. The fourth thing is — to place in a corner of the 
patient's room a large glazed pan containing water and 
Carbolic acid. Into this pan everything that can be 
washed or boiled should be put, directly it is done with, 
before it leaves the sick-room. The pan should be 
emptied night and morning, or oftener. 

5. The patient should be sponged all over with warm 
water and Calvert's carbolic-acid soap twice a day 
(except during periods in which it may be thought 
unadvisable by the doctor) ; and if the skin is peeling or 
powdery, it should be anointed after the sponging with 
olive oil containing a little Carbolic acid (about 10 per 
cent.). 

6. Carbolic acid or Chloride of lime and water should 
be put into every utensil before it is used by the patient, 
and after being used the contents should be immediately 



DISINFECTION 197 

thrown down the drain, together with some fresh 
Chloride of lime or Carbolic acid. 

7. The patient's teeth and mouth should be washed 
with Condy's fluid, or Calvert's carbolic-acid soap, and 
water several times a day,* and when there is any dis- 
charge from the nose or other passages, these should be 
cleansed in the same way. When the discharges from 
the body are fetid, Savory and Moore's carbolic-acid 
vaporiser (as designed by me) should be burnt in the 

room.f 

8. It must constantly be borne in mind that no amount 
or kind of disinfection will take the place of fresh air, 
and therefore the sick-room must be kept freely venti- 
lated, carefully avoiding draughts. (See Sleep, pp. 32, 
33.) Gas should not be burnt in a sick-room. 

9. The doctor should not communicate with any other 
members of the household after he leaves the sick-room, 
and he should always be provided with a basin of water, 
Calvert's strong carbolic-acid soap, a nail brush, and 
a clean towel, with which to wash his hands on 
leaving. 

10. Let it be especially remembered that the main points 
are the prompt disinfection of the infecting media, enumerated 
in the beginning of this Chapter, and the free circulation of 
fresh air. 

After the acute specific disease has run its course, in- 
fection may last as long as there are any unhealthy 
discharges left by the disease, as long as there is any 

* A remarkably nice antiseptic tooth and mouth wash called 
" Carboline " is made by Pearson, of Nottingham, and sold by all 
chemists. 

f Page's Oesoline Vaporiser (Allen and Hanbury's) is a very 
convenient contrivance for filling a room with antiseptic fumes, 
while occupied by invalids. 



198 DISINFECTION. 

peeling or powdering of skin, shedding of hair or the 
like ; and precautions are needed for disinfecting these 
means of spreading disease so long as they exist. 

No doctor who has been in attendance upon Erysipelas, 
Scarlet fever, Puerperal fever, Typhus, Gangrene, Py»- 
mia, etc., or who has been engaged in a post-mortem 
examination, should enter a lying-in room until he has 
subjected himself to effectual purification and disinfec- 
tion ; and it is a safe rule, under all circumstances, for a 
doctor not to touch a lying-in patient until he has 
washed his hands with some disinfectant. 

The difficulties of carrying out this rule are very great 
in the hurry of practice, but every doctor engaged in 
Obstetric practice is bound to provide for doing so. And 
he should never go upon his rounds without some disin- 
fectant with him to mix with the water in which he 
washes his hands in case of unexpected need. 

To facilitate this important hygienic precaution, 
Messrs. Maw have at my request provided a little metal 
case containing a piece of strong Carbolic-acid soap, a 
nail-brush (for it is useless to wash the hands without 
brushing out the nails), and a little tube of Carbolic acid 
—for medical men to carry constantly in their pockets 
when on their rounds. The whole is no larger than a 
small snuff-box, and is called "The Pocket Disin- 
fector." It ought to be used by nurses and visitors 
upon the sick, as well as by doctors. 

When the infectious period of the illness is over, and 
the patient removed from the sick-room, it must be 
properly disinfected. 

The following are the directions for the Prevention of the 



DISINFECTION. 199 

spread of catching diseases and for the proper disinfection 
of rooms issued by Dr. C. Meymott Tidy. 

1. Recollect that Scarlet Fever or Scarlatina (both terms 
signifying the same disease), however mild it may be, is highly 
infectious. Every body and every thing in the room where the 
sick person is may carry the disease, and in this manner spread it. 
Small-Pox, however slight, is also infectious. 

2. The infectious principle of the disease is given off by the 
breath, by all the discharges, and also from the skin until long 
after apparent recovery. 

3. Persons with sore throat, when Scarlet Fever is about, some- 
times give Scarlet Fever to other people. 

4. When anybody is attacked, the sick person should either be 
put into a room, apart from others, the room being stripped first 
of all carpets, curtains, and unnecessary furniture, or, where this 
cannot be done, should be sent to Hospital. 

5. When possible, all persons who have not had the disease 
should be sent out of the house to lodge elsewhere. 

6. To prevent the infection coming off from the skin, the whole 
body and limbs of the sick person should be kept greased with 
mutton fat, or with some other fatty or oily material. 

7. To prevent it coming off by the breath, the mouth, throat, 
and nose should be very frequently washed with a disinfecting 
solution, such as water containing some Condy's fluid, by 
gargling, swabbing, or syringing. 

8. Bags should be used instead of handkerchiefs for removing 
or wiping away the discharges from the throat or nose, and they 
should then be burned. 

9. Before any discharges from the body are removed from the 
sick room, they should be disinfected and rendered innocuous by 
the addition to them of a tablespoonful of Chloride of Zinc or 
common Carbolic acid. 

10. The air of the room should be kept sweet and disinfected, 
and prevented from mixing with the other air of the house. This 
may be done by constantly keeping up a small fire, and by 
hanging over the doorway an old sheet well sprinkled with a 
solution of Carbolic acid (1 part of Calvert's No. 5 acid to 50 of 
water). 

11. No unnecessary communication should take place between 
the nurse in the sick room and the other inmates of the house. 
Nurses or attendants should wear glazed or smooth dresses in pre- 



200 DISINFECTION. 

ference to rough and woollen ones, and should wash their hands 
before eating. 

12. All handkerchiefs, towels, sheets, articles of clothing, etc., 
should be steeped in boiling water containing Carbolic acid (Cal- 
vert's No. 5 acid, 1 part to 50 of water), before they are taken out 
of the sick room. 

13. Sawdust, thoroughly saturated with 1 part of Carbolic acid 
(Calvert's No. 5) mixed with 50 parts of water, should be arranged 
on large trays, and placed in the various passages and rooms of 
the house. 

SHOULD THE SICK PERSON DIE. 

1. The body should not be removed into another room to spread 
infection over the house. It is still infectious. 

2. No articles of bedding or clothing should be removed from 
the room until disinfected, as formerly stated. 

3. In washing the body, Carbolic acid (1 part in 50 of water) 
should be used. 

4. The body should be put into the coffin as soon as possible, 
with a disinfectant. MacdougaTs Powder may be used, sprinkled 
freely underneath and over the corpse, or rags soaked in strong 
Carbolic acid may be laid beneath it and over it (beneath the 
clothing). The coffin should be screwed down and the body buried 
as soon as passible. 

SHOULD RECOVERY TAKE PLACE. 

1. Warm baths with soap should be used repeatedly until all 
roughness of the skin has disappeared: a little Carbolic acid 
added renders the washing more effective for disinfection. 

2. Until all roughness of the skin has disappeared, the person 
should not be allowed to mix with the rest of the family, and 
then only in new clothes or in clothes which have been thoroughly 
disinfected. 

DISINFECTION OF A ROOM AFTER SCARLET FEVER, SMALL-POX, 

OR OTHER INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 

The infection hangs about a room or house for a very long time 
and is difficult to dislodge. Fumigation with Sulphur, however, 
may be employed by any one, and must first be carried out. A 
pound of Brimstone, broken into small pieces, should be put into 
an iron dish (or a lid of an iron saucepan turned upside down) 
supported by a pair of tongs over a bucket of water. The fire- 
place and outer openings, such as the crevices of the windows, are 



DISINFECTION. 201 

then to be closed by pasting paper over them, and a shovelful of 
live coals is to be pnt upon the brimstone. The door is then to 
be quickly shut, the crevices pasted up with paper, and the room 
kept dosed for five or six hours. Articles of clothing hung up 
loosely, and beds, bedding, and other things left uncovered in the 
room, are fumigated at the same time. The paper on the walls 
must then, in every instance, be wetted with a solution of Carbolic 
acid, stripped off and burned ; and the walls, ceilings, paint, and 
floors, must.be well washed with a solution of Carbolic acid. 
After this, a thorough cleaning should be made ; everything that 
can, should be washed with a little Carbolic acid in the water and 
boiled. The ceiling of the room should then be lime-whited. 
Anything short of this is not a proper disinfectant ; but the room 
may afterwards, when possible, be left unoccupied, with the 
windows open, for a week or a fortnight with great advantage. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE PREVENTION OF CHOLERA. 

It is most important, in view of the possibility of an outbreak 
of Cholera, that owners and keepers of houses should be more 
than ordinarily careful in the management of their property, thus 
supporting the Sanitary Inspectors in the diligent" performance of 
their duties. I advise : — 

1. That everywhere the utmost cleanliness should be enforced 
in respect to the condition of all areas, basements, cellars, kitchens, 
yards, and other damp and dark places, and that all rubbish, dirt, 
dust, and other offensive matters should be carefully, completely, 
and regularly removed. 

2. That the closets, drains, and sinks of houses should be kept 
in a proper condition. 

3. That the water butts and cisterns be kept free from sedi- 
mentary accumulations, and maintained in such a state that the 
water shall be sweet and wholesome : and further, that the water 
used for drinking purposes should be recently boiled. 

4. That the water furnished by pumps and surface wells should 
be avoided for drinking purposes. 

5. That the interior of houses occupied by the poor shall be, in 
all needful cases, thoroughly cleansed and lime-whited. 

6. That in case of an attack of Diarrhoea, especially if it be 
without pain, immediate advice should be sought, either from the 
Medical Attendant of the family, or from the Medical Officer, 
appointed by the Guardians, for the District. 

7. That it is imperatively needful that all discharges from 



202 DISINFECTION. 

the body should be immediately disinfected and rendered inno- 
cuous by the addition to them of Chloride of Zinc or Carbolic 
acid. 

8. That all soiled clothing should immediately have boiling 
water poured upon it. 

9. That a handful of Calvert's or MacdougaTs Carbolic Powder 
or of Chloride of Lime, be placed three times a week in the dust- 
bins, water closets, or privies. 

The following particulars as to the mode and proportions 
in which to use Chloride of Lime, Carbolic acid, and Condy's 
fluid, have been kindly furnished by Messrs. Savory and 
Moore, and by Mr. Calvert. 

For fumigation by Chlorides. — Dissolve one pound of 
the Chloride of lime in four gallons of water, and, after 
stirring the mixture well, allow it to settle ; pour off the 
clear liquor, and place it in shallow dishes, or other con- 
venient vessels in the rooms or passages of the house. 
For use in chamber-utensils, bed-pans, spittoons, etc., 
and where a volatile disinfectant is required, a wine- 
glassful of the above solution should be added to a pint 
of water. 

Carbolic Acid. — When required for the above purposes, 
that prepared " for disinfecting" (Cal verts No. 4 or No. 
5) should be obtained — one ounce of this added to a quart 
of Water is sufficiently strong to purify drains, water- 
closets, etc. The mixture should be vigorously stirred or 
shaken (as Carbolic acid is not readily miscible with 
water). Half a pint of this solution put into any utensil 
used in the sick-room will disinfect the contents, and 
enable them to be preserved for the inspection of the 
medical man without any unpleasant effluvia arising. 

Carbolic acid-oil for anointing patients, should consist 
of Olive oil and about 10 per cent, of Carbolic acid. 



DISINFECTION. 203 

Condy's fluid. — For use either with the spray producer 
to disinfect rooms, for cleaning sponges or bandages, 
washing the skin of the patient, the personal use of 
Nurses or Medical Attendants, dressing wounds, etc., 
Condy's fluid should be mixed with water in the propor- 
tion of a teaspoonfdl to a pint. Linen and Bed-clothe? 
should be immersed in a solution made by mixing a wine- 
glassful in a pailful of water ; diluted in this proportion 
it does not stain the linen. 



PAET II. 



ON THE 

INTERDEPENDENCE AND PREVENTION 

OP 

DISEASES 

AND THE 

DIMINUTION OF THEIR FATALITY. 



"Amid all the dangers that threaten this Metropolis there is a sad 

certainty more serious than any one of them it is not disease hut it 

is not health. It is a low state of vitality, of physical power, of mental 
energy, of enjoyment, and even of moral strength." — "The Times," 
August 4th, 1858. 



207 



PART II. 

ON THE INTERDEPENDENCE AND PREVEN- 
TION OF DISEASES AND THE DIMINUTION 
OF THEIR FATALITY.* 



Chapter XI. 

The Duties of Medical Men. — The Interdependence of Diseases 
showing the Importance of Periodical Examinations. 

Gentlemen, we are all members of a practical profession. 
We have taken upon ourselves high and responsible 
duties, all culminating in action. So long as we choose 
to assume these duties in a profession as yet so far from 
perfection, we are not justified in spending our time in 
scientific investigations or speculations, unless they have 
for their end some practical application for the good of 
humanity. It is the hope of attaining such an end 
which has led me on in the design and labour of these 
Lectures. 

I proceed at once to lay it before you. 

In the beginning of the first Lecture I asserted that 

° Selections from Lectures " On the Germs and Vestiges of 
Disease and on the Prevention of the Invasion and Fatality of 
Disease," delivered by the Author to medical practitioners and 
students at the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, in 1861. 
(These Lectures are out of print.) 



208 INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES 

we are justified in practising the profession of medicine 
only in proportion as we believe in the articles of the 
following creed : — 

1. That man may be the instrument through whom 
invasion and progress of premature destructive changes 
in the human organism may be prevented or arrested. 

2. That man may be the instrument through whom 
the damaged organism may be more efficiently repaired. 

3. That man may be the instrument through whom 
the sufferings of the human being may be alleviated. 

In what sense the organism is capable of accomplish- 
ing these ends without the instrumentality of man, I have 
shown you (in the previous lectures) by numerous argu- 
ments and examples. I have also shown you the 
various modes by which it becomes deprived of this capa- 
bility. The conclusion at which I now arrive is this, 
that man may be the instrument through whom the 
capability of accomplishing these ends may be preserved and 
restored to the organism. 

The manner in which man is to exercise this instru- 
mentality is the next point for our consideration. But 
I think we have almost reduced it to a necessary conclu- 
sion. For as we have plainly seen that the organism is 
competent to take care of itself, provided that it pos- 
sesses a normal Vital force, and is surrounded by normal 
conditions of life ; and as we have also seen that the 
great causes of defect in the force are the vestiges of disease 
and abnormal conditions of life; and as we have also 
learnt that the diseases, from which the vestiges result, 
are invited by defects of the force ; and that, when thus 
invited and received into the organism, they are capable 
of being disposed of without leaving vestiges behind, if 
the Vital force is free from excessive defect ; that thus 



AND THE DIMINUTION OF THEIR FATALITY. 209 

these vestiges are due to defective force ; and as we have 
learnt that the earliest invasion of defects in the force — 
upon which all the long and intricate succession of ills 
depend as a germ — as we have learnt, I say, that this 
state of germination exists at a period anterior to the 
manifestation of disease in its ordinary characters, and 
that it is to be found in the garb of slight impairments 
of the general health, the indications of which are more 
and more evasive and occult, the earlier the stage of ger- 
mination ; and, finally, as we have learnt that it is in this 
occult and evasive stage of germination that the defect is most 
easily and most efficiently to be remedied; I think you will 
agree with me in the practical conclusion at which I 
have arrived. 

This conclusion is— that the manner in which man is 
to exercise his instrumentality for the prevention of dis- 
ease, the prevention of the vestiges of disease, and the 
prevention of fatality in disease, is to search out these 
earliest evasive periods of defect in the physiological 
state, and to adopt measures for their remedy. (See 
p. 206, " Abnormal Physiological States") 

This appears to me to be the highest, the most en- 
nobled duty of the physician, calling for the most abstruse 
knowledge of the science of life, the deepest experience 
in disease, the keenest exercise of the perceptive facul- 
ties, the calmest, most far-sighted reasoning and the 
wisest judgment — a duty as much above the manage- 
ment of acute disease as to rule an empire is above fight- 
ing a pitched battle. 

Now, I am perfectly convinced, from my own obser- 
vation and experience in practice, that patients never 
think of consulting their doctors till these conditions of 

p 



210 INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES 

impaired general health have advanced far enough to 
have been developed into some form of disease: that 
thousands and thousands of persons, believing themselves 
to be in health, are nevertheless undergoing these early, 
occult, and evasive stages of defect in the physiological 
state; and that such persons may be considered to be 
in health, not only by themselves, but by any one ac- 
customed to associate with them. 

The only means by which to reach this evil and to 
obtain the good, would be for persons to submit themselves 
and their children to systematic periodical examinations. 

Such examinations ought to include an inquiry into 
the family history, to learn the hereditary constitution ; 
into the personal history, to learn all the previous dis- 
eases that have been passed through, and the habits 
and vicissitudes of life ; into all the conditions of life 
surrounding the individual ; into the condition of the 
organs and functions of the body ; into the state of the 
secretions and fluids of the body by analyses and mi- 
croscopical examinations ; and so forth. 

The examination should be reported in writing ; and, 
after due consideration, such advice should be given as a 
careful judgment may dictate, for the future conduct, 
pursuits, and habits of the patient, with a view to cor- 
recting any defects or tendency to defects in the or- 
ganism. Advice should also be given as to the means 
of removing any vestiges of disease that have been de- 
tected, or, if they are not removable, advice as to the 
best way of overcoming their influence or of averting 
their increase. To this must be added precautions to be 
adopted in certain contingencies which, according to the 
judgment of the case, appear probable. 



AND THE DIMINUTION OF THEIK FATALITY. 211 

If such a plan as I have here proposed were to be 
faithfully and conscientiously carried out by the present 
and rising generation of well-educated, studious, medical 
men, immense benefit would be conferred upon the public. 
The next question is, then, what would be the effect 
upon the profession in a pecuniary and in an ethical 
sense. With regard to the pecuniary question, it is only 
necessary to observe that, of course, I do not expect 
that any man in good practice, whose time is profitably 
employed, could conduct such an examination and give 
such advice for the usual consultation- fee. A special fee 
would be necessary to enable him to give the necessary 
time and consideration to every case. 

But this should in no way interfere with the power of 
the poor to participate in such a system. Every hospital 
and dispensary should institute a distinct department for 
the conduct of such examinations, and for giving the 
necessary advice. Every patient discharged from its 
wards should be submitted to this department . before 
returning to the duties of life.* 

I have again and again referred in these Lectures to 
the numberless anomalous symptoms, the pains, dis- 
comforts, nervous disturbances, etc., etc., which affect 
persons in abnormal physiological states, and which 
increase in their severity, obviousness, and number, as 
the states of health become more and more degraded, 
and the occurrence of some acute disease becomes more 
imminent. I have pointed out to you that these are the 
states of health which fill our consulting-rooms and 

* For details of the mode of carrying out the Examinations at 
Public Charities, see Appendix for a Paper by the Author read at 
the Guildhall, June, 1862, and published in the Transactions, of the 
National Association for the Promotion of Social Science, 

P 2 



212 INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES 

the out-patient departments of hospitals and dis- 
pensaries. 

In further confirmation of my statements on this 
point I may remind you of some apposite observations 
by Sir Henry Holland on the subject of symptomatic 
complaints. In his " Medical Notes and Reflections " he 
says, speaking of gouty blood, — " Irregular actions of the 
heart, hypochondriacal depression, as well as the more com- 
mon symptoms of dyspepsia and disordered secretions, 
frequently antecede by months the first appearance of 
gout in the extremities, and occasionally give serious 
alarm even to those who look with medical eyes upon 
these ambiguous cases." (P. 246, 3rd edition.) 

" Modern observation has led us to recognise some of 
these relations (of gout with local or constitutional 
disorders) under the names of gouty headache, gouty 
ophthalmia, and gouty bronchitis. My own experience 
would lead me to add many cases of asthma to the 
number. I have so often seen this disorder prevalent 
in gouty families, affecting those who do not undergo 
the disease in the joints, and ceasing wholly or in part 
when the gout appears externally, that I cannot doubt 
the existence of this relation. 

"The greater tendency to apoplexy in this habit is 
noticed by many of the older writers, and confirmed by 
general experience. 

" Reference has already been made to hypochondriasis 
and hysteria; and it is probable that other disorders 
of the same class, still less generally viewed under this 
connection, will hereafter be submitted to it. 

" The relation of gout to the functions and disorders of 
the liver is another point of much interest in pathology, 
clearly attested both in the active symptoms of the 



AND THE DIMINUTION OF THEIR FATALITY. 213 

disease and by those which are common under other 
forms of the gouty temperament. This, moreover, is one 
of the points associating it with that group of maladies 
bearing the vague name of dyspepsia. 

" The connection of gout with cutaneous affections is 
an additional topic, yet almost unexamined; though 
I cannot doubt, from my own observation, that certain of 
these disorders occur as effects of the habit in question." 
(Op. cit., pp. 253-54.) 

That enormous quantities of medicine are dispensed in 
the out-patient departments of hospitals and dispensaries 
for the temporary relief of this class of functional de- 
rangements and local diseases— for complaints which 
might be prevented by the patients themselves if they 
were properly informed of the causes and premonitory 
symptoms of their maladies — is a fact which must be 
perfectly familiar to all my hearers. Such a system of 
examination and advice as I propose, if properly car- 
ried out, must strike at the root of these evils, and 
would at the same time reduce the miserable over- 
crowding of the hospital waiting-rooms, and the enormous 
expenses incurred for drugs. These are considerations 
which, however import-ant as elements of social and 
political economy, are elevated far above the rank of 
financial questions by the fact I have endeavoured to 
demonstrate in these Lectures, that by these same means, 
and at the same time, we shall so largely promote the 
economy of life. 

I hope, Gentlemen, that you will draw the attention 
of the Treasurers and Governors of any Hospitals, to 
which you may belong, to this subject. It is necessary 
to the credit and honour of our profession, that im- 
provements in these medical establishments should not 



214 INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES 

come from the public to us, but should originate among 
ourselves, and be urged by medical men upon the pub- 
lic attention. 

The following sketch of a common complaint, and a 
common story, may illustrate the need for some such 
system as I propose. A lad of fifteen is admitted into a 
hospital ward with a first attack of rheumatic fever. He 
is treated with skill, and nursed with care, and in two 
or three weeks he is convalescent, and returns to his 
home without having received any damage to his heart 
or other organs. But he has no proper understanding 
of the nature of his complaint, of the conditions of life 
calculated to keep up the morbid influence in his organ- 
ism ; no clear notions of the diet which he ought or 
ought not to adopt ; no knowledge of the premonitory 
symptoms by which a fresh attack of rheumatic fever is 
heralded, or of the precautions necessary when such an 
attack is feared. He has probably a general idea that 
his great enemy is cold, and his great friend flannel ; 
and that is as likely to lead him wrong as right in the 

measures he adopts. 

He goes back to his home and his pursuits apparently 
well. He keeps his skin closely cased in flannel, and his 
dwelling-rooms warm, but he neglects altogether to pro- 
vide for efficient excretion by the skin. He chooses a 
business either utterly regardless of its fitness for his con- 
stitution, or makes as great a mistake by selecting one 
in which he may be sure of warm — that is to say close — 
rooms and workshops, by which he is deprived of exer- 
cise and oxygen. He drinks beer, eats cheese, and so 
forth, like other people in his position. After a few 
months he comes back as an out-patient at the hospi- 
tal, with severe acid dyspepsia ; and after consuming the 



AND THE DIMINUTION OF THEIR FATALITY. 215 

usual amount of drugs for several weeks, gets relief, and 
goes back to his old habits. A few months more, and 
he appears again the subject of a skin disease ; goes again 
through the consumption of drugs, and gets well and 
goes back to work. By-and-bye he comes again with diar- 
rhoea, and goes through the same process ; at another 
time with gravel, and gets relief again. At length, a 
few years perhaps having elapsed and after some 
months of depressed health, with palpitations of the 
heart, gloomy thoughts, irritable temper, and general 
malaise, he happens to be out on a damp raw day, gets 
a chill, and applies again at the hospital, with a fresh 
attack of rheumatic fever. This time he suffers from 
endocarditis, and after some weeks returns again to his 
home, " discharged cured," but with disease of the valves 
of his heart. He has been thoroughly well treated, and 
is very free from rheumatic poison, and hence goes on 
for a considerable time without much inconvenience ; 
but having no clear ideas of the nature of the damage he 
has received, or of the precautions necessary to prevent its 
increase or the production of secondary diseases depen- 
dent upon this damage for their cause, he gradually be- . 
comes the subject of congested lungs and liver ; of attacks 
of bronchitis to which he was not formerly inclined ; his 
breathing becomes short, his old dyspeptic troubles, 
cutaneous affections and gravel, recur again and again, 
and his capability of following his former occupations 
gets less and less. 

If he does not have another attack of rheumatic fever, 
he comes back to the hospital some future day with 
chronic bronchitis, or with apoplectic symptoms, or with 
congested liver, or still later with albuminuria and 
dropsy. At length he dies, and his death is registered 



216 INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES 

under the head of apoplexy, heart-disease, or dropsy. 
(See " Tables showing the Interdependence of Diseases," 
pp. 177-184.) 

All medical men of experience will admit that this 
sketch is no exaggeration ; that I have, in fact, omitted 
numerous details of minor diseases and discomforts that 
are sure to have existed in the case itself. I have said 
nothing of the effects upon this man's children of his 
continued ill -health, or of the poverty and want of food 
brought upon his wife and family by the same cause, and 
acting as fresh causes of disease in them. But I have said 
enough to make it quite clear, that, in the course of a 
life prematurely ended, he must have consumed a vast 
amount of money in the form of drugs, and a vast 
amount of nervous energy, if not of brains, in the form 
of medical advice. k 

It is to the first causes, to the " wells and springs " of 
such a series of calamities as this, that I have directed 
your attention as fellow medical practitioners and stu- 
dents, and to which I now beg that you will direct the 
attention of the Treasurers and Governors of Hospitals 
and Dispensaries, of your private patients, and of the 

public at large. 

# * * * * 

In my fourth Lecture I gave an Etiological analysis 
of those states of disease assembled under the following 
six headings in the Registrar-General's Reports of the 
deaths in London. (Report of the deaths in London 
registered in the 21st week of each of the ten years 
1848-57, the Report current at the time the notes for 
these Lectures were made.) 

1. Typhus, typhoid and other forms of continued 
fever. 



AND THE DIMINUTION OF THEIR FATALITY. 217 

2. Apoplexy and Paralysis. 

3. Heart diseases and Pericarditis. 

4. Rheumatism and Gout. 

5. Bronchitis. 

6. Atrophy and Debility. 

I demonstrated that, when we analyse the natural 
history of any disease, we find that the principal factors 
of its essential cause, of its predisposing causes, and of the 
causes of Ls fatality fall under one of the three headings : 
— 1. Conditions of life. 2. Coetaneous diseases. 3. Ves- 
tiges of Disease. 

I showed, not only theoretically but from actual obser- 
vations made by others as well as by myself, how the 
organism becomes damaged by these Vestiges of Dis- 
ease — how the vital force becomes defective through 
these Vestiges, how this defective state of the vital force 
becomes the essential cause and the predisposing cause 
of disease ; and how the Vestiges of one disease become 
the causes of fatality in whole families of other dis- 
eases. 

I endeavoured to prove, by an array of facts, that the 
vestiges of disease become causes of fatality in other dis- 
eases principally in two ways : — 

1. By destroying those modes of matter and their cor- 
relation of conditions upon which the existence of the 
vital force in its normal condition depends, thus pro- 
ducing excessive defect of the vital force. 

2. By producing excessive defect in the condition of 
some part of the organism, occupying the position, at the 
time of an essential instrument in the processes of life, 
and thus causing the organism to break down at this 
its weakest part. 

I pointed out that in the large majority of deaths from 



218 INTEBDEPENDENGE OF DISEASES 

disease, the fatality is due, not to the disease itself but to the 
testiges of some pre-exist ent disease, operating in one or other 
of the above ways. 

In illustration of this great fact, I have set forth the 
course of events by which the vestiges of disease, passing 
under the names of anaemia and fatty degeneration, 
become the actual causes of a large number of the 
deaths registered under the following names : — 

Tabes mesenterica, croup, measles, hydrocephalus, 
whooping-cough, dentition, convulsions, apoplexy, para- 
lysis, delirium tremens, intemperance, angina pectoris, 
diseases of the heart, pneumonia, diarrhoea, mortification, 
influenza, peritonitis, childbirth, bronchitis, jaundice, 
liver disease, kidney disease, and some others. 

As an indication of the insidious way in which the 
deadly influence is exerted by these states— anemia and 
fatty degeneration — (which are only examples of a 
class) — I called attention to the fact that their names do not 
appear in the bills of mortality. (See Anaemia and Fatty 
Degeneration.) 

My present object is to exhibit in a conspicuous manner 
the Interdependence of Diseases. (See " Preliminary 
Remarks," p. 1.) I have, therefore, restricted myself to 
a statement of the influence exerted by the vestiges of 
each of the diseases analysed in the preceding Lectures 
upon the rest of the same little group, and in order that 
the different relationships may be seen at a glance I have 
arranged the facts in a tabular form. 

In the following tables the first column gives a list of 
the vestiges of the disease at its head. The second column 
shows to which of the diseases already analysed each 
vestige may become the predisposing cause; the third 
column shows to which of these it may become the es- 



AND THE DIMINUTION OF THEIR FATALITY. 219 

sential cause ; and the fourth column shows to which it 
may become the cause of fatality — the heading under 
which it will take its place in the Registrar's Reports. 
It must be remembered that several vestiges usually 
concur in producing their effects* 

* The Table showing the Interdependence of Winter Cough 
with other Diseases, p. 227, has been since added, and is somewhat 
differently arranged. 



220 







11 



J3 


•■s 

t2 fi- 


H 


gs 


• 

•8 


"3 


■** 






and 
ase. 




a.s 



O 



O 



H 

oo 

3 



f 

5 



2 BO • 



OQfTJ 

IS* 



a 

o 



! fi 



© S S 8 






OS 






til 

Is* 



■8 

i 



S:§ 

eS 

°i 

.2?- 

i 



I 

e 



i\ 

AC w 
08 o 

°i 

°g 
°« 

go 

fa <■> 

S3 p 



.9 



a 

i 

c 

S 

'■5 



St 

S 8 

•O o 
•a .a 
■8 

|B 
it 



a • 

IS 

€ • 
.3 

S3* 
§1 



O so 

a 



a 



I 
& 

e 



s 

8 



Si? 

si 
I s 



ii 



ij:: 1 ! 

ii, : : Is, 

I !« 
lli 

I 

'if ii 

m 

i m 



^ p 



S! 
II 



l! 



I 



i !i! 



ill 



i tl ¥i 



M 

i 1 1 i ill 

f 



s ls, 



i! 



si, ill i 



222 






i 

o 

s 

CO 



H 
as 

H 



o 






ab 6 

+» bo 



2."— fl 

I? 8 

83 its 

aj S3 03 
^ © U 

Ph 



•£ fl 
g| 

jag 

Si 

"',3 



& 



ill 

|*8 



8 



►ass 



o 



00 
P 

o 

Eh 



Of 
09 



5 

00 

° I 

OQ 

N -* 

o 



8 



Q 

B 

e§ 

o 

Pm OQ 

EH 
O 



O 

w 



WW 

g 



3 



04 

M O ► 



© 

bo 



© 

fl 

© 

© 
EH 



: a 

c« 


1 

1 




tt 


/•n 




fl 




•»H 




I 


& 




i— i 


3 


1 

< 


• 60 




fl 




*43 
8 


i 


o3 


i 


■ 


•o . 




.a 


gU 


S3 




w 



0) 

! 



i 



u 

© 

S3 



fl 
< 




& 



JO 

s 






Ob 

2 

08 

s 



I 





0Q • 


§8 . 


t 

® . 


P-o ' 


fl : 


1 


© 

,fl 


S^ : 


49 

fl ! 


!* 




>> 


© a. 


-P 


ja 




ect in t 
dnring 


eg 


: 1: 



9* 
© 



Sal 
■38 



43 

C3 



gBJS 

s 



223 



1 

H 

FBI'S 

gal 



t 



■gfr 



S 

I 

i 
I 



£ 



O 

CD 
H 
ce 



3 



s §> 

•3.2 

*>» 

fl 4 
OS «* 

•C.S 

3 

^1 



•3 



S 



£ 



CO 

H 

CD 

O 



i 



! 
I 



l 

a 

o 
o 

CO 

H 
O 

►H 
S3 

H 
> 



§ 



a 

* 

3 
§ 

s 

O 

>> 

S 



*»£. 






s 



43 



s 

ft 
I 



•o 

i 



l 

£ 



p 



•a P 

<9 Cg 

Sis 

31 






I 



|3 
1° 



i 

o 



5 






M 
GO 

o 



* 

2 h 


H 


So 


•2 


Pre 

U8E8 


1 


PB^ 




*» 


a* 



§ 



CO 



1 

O 



oo 

M 





Il 



i : I 



it 

u 



iiiiihliii 

ill i i!«! mt 



Hi 



|3 J : I I 



I 



pi 



! 



! H ! 1 

!l 3 1 «ifi? 1« it II j. 

If si - 

j' jllfltjii IliiflWjl 



225 




& 



H 

1 



I 



1 




S |IU§ 




I 

CD 
..rf 



of 

•43 

1 



F I 




i 



OQ 

H 

00 

5 

O 
g 



1 

•9. 

I 



! 

n 



3 

4) 



s 



.o 

S 
I 

P 



W 

•a 

a 



s 

CD 

o 

oo 



I 



£3 

~ on 

8^ 



« 



00 



I 

! 



i 



1 



1 



3 



I 



I 

oo 



n 

© 

i 

o 

CO 

H 

© 






cS 
•»* 
ft 



I' 

f : 
& 

!! 

is 



3 



-a 

1 

! 

i 
i 

a 



s 






ii M 



Si iliiiiill! 



ii 



§ : i' it 
I. II 



m III! ill 

M PI '|t| 



1 1 

I ! 

r J 1 i 



«II H id i i It :#.: 

Si 111 ! |!i 

'Sr«,ii!iiM j ft: ilia 



228 INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES. 

Having shown the remarkable interdependence which 
exists between different diseases — how they act and re- 
act upon one another — I must attempt, in this Lecture, to 
show to what extent one vestige of disease, or the several 
vestiges of one disease, may act as essential causes and as 
causes of death in other diseases. I will first take some 
Diseases which have no place in the Registrar's report. 
This will enable us to observe how many of the head- 
ings under which deaths are registered in that report owe 
their existence there to diseases which never figure at all 
as causes of death. 

The first example I have chosen is Anvmia, a name 
that does not appear in the Registrar's reports. 



229 



Chapter XII. 
ANEMIA. 

A careful examination of the subject teaches us that 
Anaemia is one of the most frequent vestiges of all se- 
vere diseases when they do not terminate in death : — the 
patient remains anemic during convalescence, and in a 
large number of cases continues so long after returning 
to the duties of life. Again, we observe that anaemia is 
continually occurring in connection with the periods of 
puberty and the cessation of the catamenia, and that 
during the intervening .years,, it is.one of the most fre- 
quent forms of impaired health connected with. derange- 
ments of menstruation, with lactation, with , convales- 
cence from the puerperal state, and during pregnancy. 

Innumerable other causes may be found for this condi- 
tion which is, in fact, the type of most of those miserable 
states of health referred to by the Times in the memorable 
article already quoted—" There is a certainty worse than 
any occasional and precarious plague. We may antici- 
pate it from our own experience — we may see the great 

fact with our own eyes It is not disease, but it is 

not health. It is a low state of vitality, of physical 
power, of mental energy, of enjoyment, and even of 

moral strength Shocking as it may seem, a plague 

once in twenty years seems but a light evil to so low a 
condition of humanity." 

From a concatenation of circumstances, it so happens 
that the female portion of the population have to support 



230 ANEMIA. 

the principal weight of this dire affliction. Ansemiated 
girls, ansemiated brides, ansemiated spinsters, ansemiated 
mothers, abound in the consulting room, the out-patient 
room, the hospital ward, the home; wherever, in fact, 
the physician's duties call him there they are to be 
found. Yet from the long list of diseases named in the 
mortality tables, this name, anaemia, is absent. Is it, 
then, a thing to be endured, but not to be feared ? Is it a 
name for sickness only, and not a cause of death ? Quite 
the reverse ; the fact is, that, like some individuals of 
great influence and importance, anaemia travels incognito. 
When we discover its various " norm de guerre? we are 
startled to find ourselves face to face with the imperso- 
nation of long-dreaded enemies. 

Tabes mesenterica • 18*3 deaths per week. 



Croup 


. 6-8 


Measles . 


. 250 


Hydrocephalus 


. 32-5 


Whooping-cough . 51\L 


Pneumonia 


. 60-3 


Dentition 


. 128 


Diarrhoea 


. 17-5 


Convulsions 


. 365 


Bronchitis 


. 64-5 


Childbirth 


. 4-3 



it it 

it it 

it it 

a a 

tt a 

t* it 

a tt 

n tt 

a it 

a a 



3296 

These are some of the names under which ansemia 
travels among the sick, and takes its place in the bills 
of mortality. The way in which it does so is as stealthy 
as it is deadly. I will tell you something of how it 
happens. 

" Among the children of the poor of London, the most 



ANEMIA. 231 

widtely-spread of these diseases (tuberculosis, scrofulosis, 
rickets,) is rickets. It is, however, by no means limited 
to the poor, or to London, or even to large towns." I 
quote from one of the most correct medical philosophers 
of modern times. — (Sir W. Jenner, " Lectures on Rickets" 
Medical Times and Gazette, March 17, 1860.) 

" Rickets is essentially and purely a disease of nu- 
trition, not of one part only, but of the whole body. 

" Rickets causes, primarily or secondarily, more deaths 
than any other disease of childhood. 

" The great causes of death in rickets are : — 1. Inten- 
sity of the general cachexia. 2. Catarrh and bronchitis. 

3. Albuminoid infiltration of organs, especially of the 
lymphatic glands and spleen (but also of the liver). 

4. Laryngismus stridulus. 5. Chronic Hydrocephalus/ 
6. Convulsions. 7. Diarrhoea." 

You see how closely this list of the causes of death in 
rickets corresponds with the list I have just given of 
what I have called the "noms de guerre" of anaemia; 
and the correspondence is really closer than it appears 
at first sight. 

"The connection between rickets and laryngismus 

stridulus" continues Sir William, " is very close 

I believe the reason of laryngismus stridulus being so 
constantly referred to teething is that the rickety con- 
dition retards the development of the teeth, and the 
medical practitioner refers the laryngismus to that 
which, like itself, is the consequence of constitutional 
disease. 

" If a child pass over the ninth month without teeth, 

you should carefully inquire into its cause It 

may be, and this is infinitely the most common cause of 
late dentition, that the child is rickety." 



232 ANEMIA. 

Many deaths, therefore, registered under the head of 
dentition, may be referred to rickets. 

" Catakbh and Bronchitis," says Sir William, " are 
unquestionably the most common causes of death in 
rickets. The softening of the ribs rendering the me- 
chanical power by which inspiration is performed so 
defective, that the impediment offered to the entrance of 
the air by the mucus in the bronchial tubes cannot be 
overcome : and collapse of large portions of the lung 
follows. 

" This want of inspiratory power, and the consequent 
accumulation of mucus in the bronchial tubes, affords an 
explanation of the extraordinary mortality of measles, 
whooping cough, and bronchitis in rickety subjects." 

Thus may we refer two more of the headings of the 
Registrar — measles and whooping cough — to rickets. 

For similar reasons, and still more from the intensity 
of the general cachexia and the corresponding defect in 
the vital force, rickets will be found to be the true cause 
of fatality in many of the deaths registered under the 
name of pneumonia. 

Then we have the deaths from childbirth 43 per 
week, and it is very interesting to trace out . the influ- 
ence of rickets in causing these miserable deaths. The 
mode of its operation is twofold. First, there is the 
large size of the head in the rickety foetus ; and secondly, 
deformities of the pelvis in women who have been 
rickety in their childhood. On examining into the 
causes of death in childbirth, as carefully collated by Dr. 
R. Collins, of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, I find that 
of eighty-one cases of death during parturition, thirty-two 
were due to rupture of the uterus, eleven to tedious or 
difficult labour. If we, then, inquire into the causes of 



ANEMIA. 233 

rupture of the uterus and tedious or difficult labour, to 
which forty-three out of eighty-one deaths were due, we 
find that narrowing and deformity of the pelvis, and 
abnormal size of the child's head, stand prominently 
forward in their importance ; and thus we are brought 
back to rickets as the chief cause of these deaths. 

But you will perhaps ask, how anaemia is proved to be 
the cause of the deaths under these different headings, 
by proving that they are due to rickets ? That is, in 
fact, the important question. The answer is this, that 
ancemia in the mother produces tickets in the child, and anos- 
mia in the child may lead to rickets also. This may be as 
familiar to you all as it is to me ; but I will give you the 
authority of Sir William Jenner again, who has devoted 
great attention to this subject : — 

" The health of the mother has a decided influence in 
the development of rickets in the offspring. ... Of this 
much, I am sure — that when the mother is in delicate 
health, in a state of which ancemia and general want of 
power form the prominent . features, without being the 
subject of disease usually so-called, there the children 
are often in a very decided degree rickety, although the 
father is in robust health, and the hygienic conditions in 
which the children are placed are most favourable. It is 
very common for the first two or three children to be 
free from any signs of rickets, and yet for every subse- 
quent child to be rickety. . . . . 

" Whatever external conditions are favourable to the 
formation of hydrsemic blood in a. child, seem to be 
favourable to the development of rickets. 

"Albuminoid infiltration of the Lymphatic glands 
spleen, and other organs is by no means an uncom- 
mon cause of death in rickets. The two great features, 



234 ANEMIA. 

during life, of albuminoid infiltration of these organs 
in a young child are emaciation and pallor : the anaemia 
is often most remarkable." 

You will not fail, then, to see at once the intimate 
connection between rickets and anaemia, and between 
anaemia and that list of terrible names in the Registrar's 
Reports. 

I do not wish you to suppose that I attribute all the 
deaths under those headings to anaemia ; that would be a 
great mistake. But from an elaborate and careful analysis 
of such deaths, I have found, and you may find, that a very 
large, a very remarkably large, proportion of them are 
due to anaemia in the individual, or to anaemia in a 
parent and rickets in the offspring. It is important to 
bear in mind, that, with the exception of hydrocephalus, 
the diseases I have enumerated from the mortality-tables 
are extremely common every-day complaints — that they 
occur and terminate favourably thousands of times every 
year ; that it is only the fatal eases that come into our 
list, and with which we are now concerned. And what 
I have endeavoured to show, and what I wish to impress 
upon you is, that we must look to anaemia as the chief 
cause of this fatality ; that it is anaemia in the individual 
or anaemia in a parent that brings these remediable, 
every-day complaints into the bills of mortality. 

When, therefore, we see anaemia establishing itself, as 
a vestige of the diseases from which our convalescents 
have lately suffered, or in any other way, we must regard 
it as the grim harbinger of death in a vast fondly of 
diseases. 

The next example I shall give is Fatty degeneration, 
which, like the last, does not appear in the Registrar's 
Reports. 



235 



Chapter XIII. 

FATTY DEGENERATION. 

In the present day, we have all learnt that " something 
much more than a general tendency to form fat, or a 
general excess of fat in the blood is necessary to produce 
a local fatty degeneration." — (Sir James Paget's Lectures, 
Vol. L, p. 112.) 

Every year throws new light on the physiology of the 
process by which this change is brought about ; but of 
this it is not within the province of these Lectures to 
treat. I wish, however, to point out to you that the 
pathological condition termed fatty degeneration is to be 
regarded as a vestige of disease — a vestige of perverted 
assimilation, either local or general, and hence a vestige 
also of any diseases by which such perverted assimilation 
is produced. In the third series of Guy's Hospital 
Reports (Vol. III., 1857), Dr. Wilks has related a number 
of interesting cases of fatty degeneration, of which the 
only appreciable and probable causes were haemorrhage, 
diarrhoea, miasmata. In these cases the subjects were 
comparatively young, the heart was the organ in which 
the diseased change was most marked, and the body 
generally was neither fat nor wasted. 

Fatty degeneration appears to be especially prone to 
occur in tissues which have passed from a condition of 
active assimilation to one of comparatively inactive or 
feeble nutrition, by whatever cause this change may 



236 FATTY DEGENERATION. 

have been brought about. *Thus, the muscular tissue is 
particularly subject to fatty degeneration; it is also 
peculiar for the vigour of its normal assimilation, and it 
is when this is rendered feeble that degeneration occurs. 
This appears to be the case whether the vigorous assimi- 
lation is hindered by arrest of function in the muscles, as 
in the case of paralyzed limbs, or by deficient supply of 
blood, as in disease of the nutrient arteries of a part, or 
by a depraved condition of the blood supplied to the 
part, as in the case of persons who, after having led 
active muscular lives, gradually become anaemiated by 
passive haemorrhages. I have seen many instances of 
strong men, accustomed to vigorous country occupations, 
who, having become the subjects of bleeding haemor- 
rhoids, by which the blood lost its red globules, and 
nutrition became enfeebled, suffered from degeneration 
of their previously strong and vigorous hearts. Many 
other examples might be adduced of the degeneration of 
tissues when their assimilation is changed from a vigor- 
ous to a feeble state. Thus we find, in watching the 
course of diseases of the heart, that the heart which has 
become hypertrophied in opposing some obstruction to 
the circulation during the active life of the individual, 
becomes degenerated when, in the further progress of 
the case, the patient is forced to relinquish active pur- 
suits, and thus ceases to call upon the hypertrophied 
organ for the full exercise of its muscular power. Thus 
also, parts which have been inflamed are especially liable 
to degenerate, and fatty degeneration frequently takes 
place in organs deprived of their proper functions by 
disease, as in kidneys spoilt by Bright's disease. Thus, 
also the products of inflammation, when they have no 
further functions to perform, are peculiarly subject to 



FATTY DEGENERATION. 237 

fatty degeneration. Without pressing the subject 
further, I think we shall all agree that fatty degenera- 
tion must be regarded as a vestige of disease, not as a 
disease in itself, and that in thus regarding it, we must 
often look beyond the defect in assimilation to the 
causes of that defect, in order to find the disease of 
which the degeneration is truly a vestige. 

I must now proceed to show to what a wide extent 
this vestige of disease acts as a cause of those deaths 
classed in the Registrar's reports under the heads of a 
variety of diseases. 

" The most interesting examples (of fatty degenera- 
tion)," says Sir James Paget, "are those of primary degene- 
ration of blood vessels. This has long been known in the 
atheromatous disease, as it was called, of the larger 
arteries, the true nature of which, as a fatty and cal- 
careous degeneration of the inner and, consecutively, of 
the middle arterial coat, was discovered by Mr. Gulliver 
(See Med. Chir. Transactions, Vol. XXVI.). The descrip- 
tions of this complaint by him and by Rokitansky have 
left nothing unsaid that is yet known ; but the ob- 
servationsTreea^h year becoming more numerous and 
more interesting of similar changes in the minutest 
blood vessels. Such changes are especially observable 
in the minutest cerebral vessels, and their importance 
in relation to apoplexy, of which they seem to be the 
most frequent precedent, cannot be overstated.'' — (Ibid., 
Vol. I., p. 139.) 

Dr. Wilks* experience has taught him that, " In the 
majority of cases of sanguineous apoplexy, disease of the 
blood-vessels exists." — (Lectures on Pathological Anatomy, 
1859.) 

Dr. Eirkes has shown (Med. Chir. Transactions, Vol. 



4 



238 FATTY DEGENERATION. 

XXXV.) that paralysis, consequent upon arrested circu- 
lation in some portion of brain-, is frequently the result 
of the obstruction of healthy cerebral arteries by masses 
of fibrine carried into them, after being dislodged from 
the valves of the left side of the heart, or from some part 
of the arterial system. 

And Dr. Ormerod has pointed out that it is in the 
cachetic subjects, with feeble circulations, that such 
masses are likely to form in the heart, in the very per- 
sons, in fact, who are likely to be the subjects of fatty 
degeneration of this organ. — (" Observations on the Clinical 
History and Pathology of one form of Fatty Degeneration 
of the Heart? by E. L. Ormerod, M.D. Medical Gazette, 
1849.) 

And although Dr. Ormerod was not prepared at that 
time (1849) to consider the occurrence of fibrinous clots 
in the subjects of fatty degeneration to be more than a 
frequent coincidence, we do not now doubt that the 
languid circulation, and the inefficient contractions of 
the heart in the subjects of fatty degeneration, act, 
together with other circumstances, in causing these de- 
posits of fibrine from the blood. 

Describing the appearances after death in fatal cases of 
delirium tremens, Dr. Wilks says, "The body, as a 
rule, presents many degenerative changes, brought about 
by the intemperate habits. It is this alteration of the 
viscera, I think, to which death is owing. Delirium 
tremens is a recoverable affection until such changes have 
occurred in the tissues that improvement is no longer 
possible ; and we then find in the body various morbid 
changes. These are mostly of the fatty kind, as all 
alcoholic drinks tend to this condition." — (Ibid.) 

In Angina Pectoris, again, Dr. Wilks, in common 



FATTY DEGENERATION. 239 

with other observers, has found that " the heart is usually 
fatty, and the coronary arteries ossified." — (Ibid.) 

"It is impossible," says Dr. Ormerod(Qp. eit), "to 
read any collection of cases of angina pectoris without 
feeling how much further fatty degeneration goes to 
explain the symptoms than does any other morbid 
change usually found on dissection." 

Sir James Paget classes the heart and arteries first 
among the frequent seats of fatty degeneration. — (Op. 
cit., Vol. L, p. 116.) 

Among the vessels of which the coats have been found 
degenerated are those of the lungs and placenta ; and 
pulmonary or uterine haemorrhages may result from this 
state of the vessels. 

Against the extreme vital depression which accom- 
panies such diseases as peritonitis, influenza, and 
diarrhcea, the subjects of fatty degeneration have no 
resisting power ; they are among the first to succumb ; 
and thus fatty degeneration becomes a cause of death in 
these and other depressing diseases when they attack 
adults. 

Out of 164 deaths from Childbirth in the Dublin 
Hospital during the seven years ending November, 
1826, as recorded by Dr. R. Collins, I find thirty-two 
attributed to rupture of the uterus, and eleven to 
tedious or difficult labour. Recent investigations into 
the causes of rupture of the uterus, show that fatty de- 
generation' of its walls is a most frequent if not a 
constant coincidence. 

Fatty degeneration of the uterus, then, is a cause of 
death in childbirth by producing or disposing to rup- 
ture of the organ ; but it has yet another influence on 
these deaths, for we may be quite sure that a degree of 



240 FATTY DEGENERATION. 

degeneration must often exist, not sufficient to lead to 
rupture, but quite sufficient to render the organ incom- 
petent to vigorous muscular contraction, even under the 
influence of unusual stimuli. And thus it may become 
the cause of those hopelessly tedious labours which, 
as we have seen, assist to swell the death-rate in par- 
turition. 

Thus do we see that among the rational causes of 
dread that haunt the brain of the accoucheur during a 
tedious labour, fatty degeneration of the uterus has a 
right to stand foremost. 

In Pneumonia, Dr. Wilks says that, in " far the ma- 
jority of fatal cases, some pre-existing and more 
chronic disease is found in some organ of the body."- 
(Op. cit.) 

Speaking of the probabilities of death in pneumonia, 
Dr. Walshe has made the following very well-considered 
observation : — 

" There are certain other circumstances (besides treat- 
ment) beyond the control of the physician, which exer- 
cise a most indubitable influence on the issue (of pneu- 
monia). Among these the pre-existence of organic disease 
and the state of health generally of the individual hold an 
important place. But of all the collateral conditions, age 
is the most important. While at the two extremities of 
life, in the new-born infant and in the octogenarian, 
pneumonia is almost inevitably fatal, the mortality be- 
tween the ages of six and twelve years scarcely exceeds 
two-and-a-half per cent." — (Manual of Diseases of the 
Chest, 2nd edition, p. 438.) 

To this I would add, that the octogenarian may be 
represented at any period of life by the subject of fatty 
degeneration. 



FATTY DEGENERATION. 241 

I need hardly* remind you that, in protracted Chronic 
Bronchitis there is no one feature more fearfully pro- 
gnostic of a fatal issue, sooner or later, than the co-exis- 
tence of fatty degeneration. 

In speaking of Senile Gangrene, Sir James Paget says 
it occurs, " as its name implies, in the old, and often in 
those who are old in structure, rather than in years ; it 

affects tissues already degenerate I think that, in 

some cases, its beginning may be when the progressive 
degeneration of the part has arrived at death. But, if 
this do not happen, some injury or disease, even a trivial 
one, kills that which was already nearly dead, as a severe 
injury might kill any part, however actively alive." — 
(Op. ciL, Vol. I., p. 461.) 

Under the heads of Liver-disease, Jaundice, and 
Kidney-disease, I may mention some interesting cases 
examined by Rokitansky. (On Fatal Steatosis — Fatty 
Degeneration — of the Liver and Kidneys.) 

" The cases referred to consisted in steatosis of the 
liver, accompanied by a high degree of steatosis of the 
kidneys. Their importance rests upon the possibility of 
proving them to be parallel to the cases of acute atrophy 
of the liver, and the analogous renal affection which 
co-exists with it. 

" It is evident that in our cases we have not to deal 
with that steatosis of the liver which occurs so com- 
monly in the course of consuming suppurative processes, 
but with fatty livers, as they not rarely develop them- 
selves to a high degree, at the side of an abundant 
formation of fat in the areolar tissue, without the disease 
being always attributable to gross feeding. 

" There exists thus a steatosis of the liver, occurring in 
individuals inclined to the formation of fat, to which 

R 



242 FATTY DEGENERATION. 

sooner or later a steatosis of the kidney is added, both 
which diseases attain slowly and imperceptibly so high 
a degree that, finally, a cessation of the biliary and 
urinary secretion supervenes, and, after a slight degree 
of icterus, death rapidly sets in from anaemia and a 
hemorrhagic decomposition of the blood." — (Banking's 
Abstract, Vol. XXXI, p. 40.) 

I might prolong this subject much further — so widely 
spread is the influence of this seemingly spontaneous 
atrophy, this Vestige of disease. I might give you 
quotations from reliable authorities to show in how 
many more diseases than I have yet referred to, the 
fatality is determined by fatty degeneration; but I 
should exhaust your patience and overstep our time. 
I *ill, therefore, conclude the list by simply enumerating 
the causes to which death was attributed in sixty-eight 
cases analysed by Dr. Quain, in all of which there was 
fatty degeneration. — (Med.-Chir. Transactions, 1850.) 

List of causes to which death was attributed in sixty- 
eight cases of fatty degeneration. 

Rupture of the heart. Cancrum oris. 

Exhaustion. Gradual decay. 

Coma. Lethargie. 

Pleuropneumonia. Haemorrhage into the pericardium. 

Syncope anginosa. Cerebral hemorrhage. 

Cardiac apoplexy. Diarrhoea. 

Syncope. Gangrene of the intestines. 

I must briefly remind you, in the words of Sir James 
Paget, that "Fatty degeneration of the heart often intro- 
duces unexpected dangers into the ordinary practice of 
surgery. It is, I believe, not rarely the cause of sudden 
death after operations. It is one of the conditions in 



PATTY DEGENERATION. 



243 



vfhich chloroform should be administered with more 
than ordinary caution. They who labour under it may 
be fit for all the ordinary events of a calm and quiet 
life, but they are unable to resist the storm of sickness, 
an accident, or an operation." — (Op. city Vol. I., p. 129.) 

To sum up ; we have seen that this vestige of disease, 
fatty degeneration, may claim as its victims a certain 
number of deaths out of each of the following headings 
of the Registrar's report : — 



Apoplexy 




. 260 deaths 


per week. 


Paralysis 




. 237 


it 


tt 


Delirium tremens 


and 






intemperance . 


« 


4-5 


tt 


a 


Angina pectoris 


anc 


I 






other diseases of the 


« 






heart 




. 319 


it 


a 


Pneumonia . 




. 60-3 


it 


a 


Diarrhoea . 




. 17-5 


it 


» 


Mortification 




46 


tt 


tt 


Influenza 




31 


ti 


a 


Peritonitis . 




4 - 4 


M 


tt 


Childbirth . 




43 


tt 


it 


Bronchitis . 




, 645 


99 


tt 


Jaundice 




2-8 


it 


a 


liver disease 




. 110 


tt 


tt 


Kidney disease . 




4-9 


tt 


a 



263*5 deaths per week ; 
out of which fatty degeneration claims so large a share. 



R 2 



244 



Chapter XIV. 

ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

We pass on, Gentlemen, to another and most important 
branch of our subject. 

I must now speak more at length of those states of 
health to which I referred in my second Lecture, when I 
said that I should impress upon you that " they are inti- 
mately related to the definitely marked diseases " — those 
states so puzzling to the young practitioner, because they 
do not fall under any of the nosological headings which 
have been his landmarks in the study of disease — those 
states which, although perhaps familiar in their aspect to 
most old practitioners, are, nevertheless, most inefficiently 
treated, or not treated at all, because their interpreta- 
tion is so little understood, and because their importance 
is not appreciated ; conditions which are not recognised as 
disease, but which certainly are not health, and which I pro- 
pose to class under the general heading of " Abnormal 
Physiological States." I will give you some exam- 
ples of what I mean. 

A family of four children were exposed to the infec- 
tion of measles at the same time, and from the same 
source ; all of them were supposed to be in health at the 
time. One had the measles simply and slightly; one 
had a severe attack of pneumonia combined with it; 



ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 245 

one indicated a disposition to typhoid symptoms, and 
was completely oppressed by the morbid poison ; a 
fourth lingered in convalescence, and was found to 
have become the subject of a deposit of tubercles in 
the lungs. 

A party of friends, all apparently in what is called 
health, met at a funeral : they went together into a damp, 
unwarmed cemetery chapel on a raw winter's day, and 
returned together, one and all complaining that they had 
taken " a severe chill." They dined together, and went 
to their homes. One suffered an attack of rheumatic 
fever; one had anasarca; one jaundice; another bron- 
chitis ; a fifth pneumonia ; a sixth diarrhoea ; a seventh 
had erysipelas ; and another had pleurisy. One coughed 
up a quantity of blood ; while the rest got a restless 
night, and a cold in the head, and thought no more 
about it. These are no imaginary stories; analogous 
cases frequently occur within the experience of medical 
men in large practice. But what is their interpreta- 
tion? Why did the same cause — the chill — produce 
such different effects, under external conditions, appa- 
rently the same? No doubt* the first answer which 
suggests itself is, that the circumstances, so apparently 
the same, must have been really different. Well, gentle- 
men, I will admit that, as the first step towards solving 
the difficulty. But I will insist that in a given case, the 
cause, so far as the chill is concerned, shall be the same 
in each individual ; and the circumstances, so far as 
they are external, shall be the same for each individual. 
Nevertheless, these different effects shall be produced; 
and the reason we shall find to be this, that there are 
other causes and other circumstances, different in each 
case, existing within the organisms of the sufferers, with 



246 ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

which the one cause — the chill — his to combine in pro- 
ducing its effect, and that the effect is the result of this 
combination of causes, different in each individual. 

Some of yoo, perhaps, will say that this simply means 
that the different effects are explained by the different 
idiosyncrasies of the individual. And I most warn you 
against adopting a word as the explanation of a difficulty, 
lest in doing so, yon fail to investigate the multitude of 
facts which that word may represent. I have no ob- 
jection to the word, so long as yon bear in mind that 
yon must be able to explain what it means, if it is to be 
accepted as any explanation at all Professor Bernard 
has spoken well on this subject: " I discovered," he says, 
" that section of large divisions of the sympathetic nerve 
was apparently unattended with the slightest incon- 
venience, as long as the health of these animals (rabbits) 

remained perfect but as soon as a general 

debilitation of the system arose from want of proper 
nourishment, acute inflammation was produced in the 
organs deprived of nervous influence. We had, there- 
fore, succeeded in artificially creating particular idiosyn- 
crasies in these animals, and could predict with cer- 
tainty that, as soon as health failed, disease would arise 
at a given point. Morbid predispositions must, there- 
fore, be viewed in the light of peculiar physiological 
conditions." And he concludes thus: "Let me advise 
you not to consider idiosyncrasies in the light of mys- 
terious powers residing within the depths of our organs, 
nor as entirely novel functions superadded, as it were, 
to those which already exist. They must be viewed as 
mere manifestations of the ordinary laws of physiology." 
—(Bernard, Lecture V., " Medical Times and Gazette: 9 ) 

Health, gentlemen, is the normal physiological state; 



ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 247 

and peculiarities in, or divergencies from this condition 
must be regarded as greater or less deviations from 
health (abnormal physiological states) in proportion as 
they predispose to contingencies which increase the pro- 
babilities of death before the normal term. 

There are very few persons who pass through life in 
the normal physiological state. At some period of life 
almost every individual diverges, more or less, from this 
state in one direction or another ; and during that diver- 
gence, although escaping an attack of what is recognised 
as disease, he certainly is not in health; and in almost 
every individual there is a tendency to diverge in some 
particular direction, during which divergence — •'.&, during 
that period of deranged health — he is particularly prone to 
certain classes of disease. In the case I have taken as an 
example of the effects of chill, for instance: — the man who 
had rheumatic fever was already surcharged with acid. 
He who had jaundice was suffering from defective ex- 
cretion by the liver, requiring only a certain increase in 
the defect, or of the demands upon the excreting function, 
to throw the secretion back into the blood. The patient 
who had anasarca was suffering either from hydremia, 
or from defect in the excreting powers of the kidneys. 
The sufferer from bronchitis I attended myself ; he had 
chronic congestion of the bronchi, from repeated former 
attacks of bronchitis, and the circulation through his 
chest was defective, from a feeble, degenerated heart ; 
but he had been accustomed to pass as a man in health, 
competent to perform the onerous duties of a tax-collector 
and county-court agent. He who had an attack of 
diarrhoea, found in his bile ducts or in the intestinal 
mucous membrane a safety valve, by which he was 
saved from either anasarca, jaundice, or rheumatic fever. 



248 ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

The subjects of erysipelas and pneumonia, and the 
man who had haemoptysis, were already suffering 
from depraved states of the blood, or of the organs 
to which it was determined; and from which, in 
the last two cases, it escaped in different quantities ; 
while the patient who was attacked with pleurisy 
was surcharged with urea from defective action of his 
kidneys. 

These several persons, therefore, were suffering, when 
they considered themselves in health — before the occur- 
rence of the chill — from abnormal physiological states to 
which we can attribute the particular form of the disease 
which was set up, by the addition, in each case, of one and 
the same cause, viz., the chill. — But some escaped unhurt ! 
Because in them the physiological state was sufficiently 
normal that a resisting and re-actionary power existed, 
which was competent speedily to restore the functions of 
the organs subjected to the shock of the chill, and to 
make them compensate for the temporary arrest by in- 
creased activity. 

I have chosen this group of somewhat crude examples 
on purpose that their meaning may be the more perspi- 
cuous. They, most of them, exemplify states of health 
dependent on the fluids and excretory organs of the body. 
It would be easy to bring many examples of degraded 
health consequent on disease attributable to the nervous 

system. 

* * * * * 

I assume, then, that (in the course of these lectures) I 
have sufficiently demonstrated that the vestiges of disease 
stand first among the causes of death. 

I have shown that so long as these vestiges exist they 
are causes of defect in the vital force, and thus act as 



'abnormal physiological states. 249 

factors of the essential and of the predisposing causes of 
fresh attacks of disease. 

I have shown that the diseases, from which these ves- 
tiges result, are but the manifestations of pre-existent 
physiological states, to which, by some means, the last 
condition has been supplied, necessary to complete the 
conditions of existence proper to the disease, which then 
is developed in its characteristic features. 

I have shown that these abnormal physiological 
states are indicated by the various conditions of im- 
paired general health, "conditions not recognised as 
disease, but which certainly are not health." 

The sum of it is this : — 

1. The majority of diseases which we see excited by 
the various accidents of life are but the manifestations of 
pre-existent abnormal physiological states, which re- 
quired only this last condition (the accident of life) to 
complete their development into the characteristic fea- 
tures of disease. 

2. Those conditions " not recognised as disease, but 
which certainly are not health," are the faint expressions 
of these morbid physiological states, while still deficient 
in the condition necessary to complete their development 
into the recognised features of disease. 

3. The multifarious and anomalous functional derange- 
ments which puzzle the physician, and make martyrs of 
the patients, depend, for the most part, upon the influ- 
ence exerted by these morbid physiological states over 
the ordinary incidents of animal existence, which are 
thereby modified, coloured, and distorted. 

4. During the whole of the time that the physiological 
conditions are disturbed, there is a greater or less defect 
in the vital force, and this defect, therefore, exists at a 



250 ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

period anterior to what are usually understood as struc- 
tural changes. 

I have shown that these abnormal physiological states, 
recognisable under various forms of impaired health and 
attended by a legion of anomalous symptoms, may be 
traced back to still earlier periods in their history, when 
they require the greatest vigilance of the physician 
to detect any deviation from the standard of normal 
health. 

Then I endeavoured to show in what direction we 
must look for the causes of these earliest and most occult 
deviations from the normal physiological state. 

With this intention I pointed out that the " conditions 
of life " and the " vestiges of disease " have a direct in- 
fluence on the vital force ; that the alterations in it are 
transmissible to the germs of a succeeding generation ; 
and that thus defects of force may be due to abnormal 
conditions of life in the individual, and to the vestiges, 
or vestiges of vestiges of disease in an ancestor. And I 
wish to draw your marked attention in this place to the 
fact, that it is to these defects transmitted from an ancestor, 
and to the conditions of life in the individual, that we must 
especially look for the causes of those first insidious 
deviations from health, which I have called "abnormal 
physiological states." 

As I have shown that these incipient and insidious 
degradations of the vital force exist at a period ante- 
rior to such changes as are understood by the terms 
structural and organic, I think you will now understand 
why I said in my last Lecture that there could be no 
fact in Medicine of greater practical importance than 
this. My reason was — that the very dependence upon 
the conditions of life which exposes the force in the indi- 



ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 251 

vidual to degradation under unfavourable conditions, 
must render it amenable to elevation under the influence 
of conditions which are favourable. And thus we learn 
that there is a possibility of cure in states that would 
otherwise be beyond the reach of treatment. 



APPENDIX. 



I. 

Cod Liver Oil. Pancreatine, Pancreatised Foods, 

and Pancreatic Emulsion. 

(A.) — Extract from the Author's Work on "Loss op Weight, 
Blood-Spitting, and Lung-Disease," Etc., 2nd Ed. 

" Oil, even when it agrees and passes into the blood, does not 
completely represent the solid fats of the natural food, and 
therefore cannot permanently take their place. As a tem- 
porary substitute for natural fats introduced by the natural 
route, it answers admirably; but, sooner or later, in some 
cases very soon indeed, the portal system becomes choked 
and refuses to absorb more oil, the oil disagrees with the 
stomach, it rises, it spoils the appetite, and thus not only 
ceases to do good, but does positive harm by preventing the 
patient from taking as much food as the stomach might other- 
wise call for and digest. 

"None of these disadvantages occurs with well made 
pancreatic emulsions of solid fat. The consequence is that 
an artificial supply of natural fat by the natural route can 
be kept up for an indefinite time, if required, while the 
appetite is usually improved and the digestion also ; and, 
at the same time, a very large quantity of amylaceous food 
is rapidly converted into dextrine and sugar by the pan- 
creatic action of the emulsion, and thus a most important 
assistance in the economy of fat is given, by the increased 
supply of carbon from the carbo-hydrates, at the same time 
that fat is being thrown into the blood by the emulsion. 



254 APPENDIX. 

"From the date of its first introduction in 1863, up to 1872, 
at the Royal Hospital alone, I had prescribed the emulsion in 
more than 6,000 cases, and since that time I have prescribed 
it in all suitable cases of consumption or of wasting from 
defective assimilation of fat that have come under my care, 
both at the Royal Chest Hospital and in private practice, and 
I have had numerous opportunities of witnessing its effects, 
when prescribed by my colleagues at the Hospital, and by 
other medical men, who have communicated to me their 
opinions on the subject or sought my assistance in con- 
sultation. 

" The general results of my thus extended experience have 
been confirmatory of the statement of my opinion, extracted at 
page 225 from the report which I published in 1867. 

" Happily to my own experience may now be added that 
of thousands of my professional brethren in different parts of 
the world, by whom pancreatic emulsion and pancreatine are 
daily prescribed, and from whom I constantly receive testimony 
of its value. 

" I am informed on the best authority, that as much as sixty 
thousand pounds weight of the emulsion (made in London) 
have been consumed within a single year. 

"While there are certainly a few persons who cannot possibly 
take or assimilate the emulsion, although able to take cod 
liver oil, they are but very few indeed, now that the emulsion 
has been made so perfect a preparation ; whereas the number 
of persons who can take and assimilate emulsion, but not cod 
liver oil, is very large. In either case — the rejection of cod 
oil or the rejection of emulsion — it is necessary not to be 
too easily persuaded by our patients to desist from prescrib- 
ing the remedy. 

" I frequently find that patients, who assert that they cannot 
possibly, and never could, keep down the oil, will manage 
to do so when informed that it is the only thing that will stay 
the progress of their disease, and when assisted by being 
instructed in the variety of ways in which the oil may be 
disguised, and its assimilation facilitated. I may here point 
out that the addition of a dose of pancreatine to each dose 



APPENDIX. 255 

of oil will, in a large number of cases, at once get over the 
difficulty in keeping it down — when that difficulty is that 
it eructates for some time after it is taken and is then rejected, 
not that it comes up directly. Many persons who have long 
taken quantities of oil without difficulty, but with scarcely any 
good effect, will gain flesh, and obtain all the advantages 
which assimilated cod liver oil can give, if they add the 
pancreatine to their dose. 

' " With the emulsion — patients, who after a first trial say they 
cannot take it, will nearly always find out that they can, when 
it is explained to them that there is nothing but pancreatic 
emulsion and cod liver oil which can really stay the progress 
of their wasting; and when they are assisted by being shown 
the best way of taking the remedy and by having any faults 
in their primary digestive functions set right. The usual 
defect in primary digestion with such patients, is the com- 
bination of an excess of acidity with a feeble stomach, and 
this should be corrected by an effervescing draught of potass 
and soda, with citric acid, quinine and strychnia ; or where 
there is much flatulent distension as well as epigastric pain 
soon after food, by a stomachic powder of bicarbonate of soda, 
bicarbonate of potass, powdered ginger, and powdered calumba, 
in half a tumbler of water, a quarter of an hour before the 
meal. 

" At the same time it is frequently necessary to unload the 
bowels, and to relieve the portal system, which has often been 
long over-loaded with cod liver oil olein, absorbed by the 
veins. It is to be remembered that, whereas olein is, in some 
measure at least, taken up by venous absorption, the solid 
fats have to pass by the lacteal route ; and thus, when sub- 
stituted f6r oil, in the form of pancreatic emulsion, they relieve 
the tax upon the choked-up venous system. 

"Then, the period after a meal at which the emulsion is 
taken may be varied, to meet the differences in the rapidity 
with which different stomachs dispose of their contents. 
Many who cannot keep the emulsion comfortably down when 
taken two hours after food, can do so if they take it from half 
an hour to an hour after. This particularly applies to young 



i 



256 APPENDIX. 

children. They generally manage it best within half an hour 
of a meal; and when their diet consists of farinaceous foods 
and milk, it is best to mix it with a portion of the food. 

"With regard to menstruum: — milk is certainly the nicest 
and best, where milk agrees with the stomach and taste; but 
many persons have an old-standing aversion to milk, or have 
long ceased to be able to digest it comfortably. In such cases 
it is absurd to insist on the emulsion being taken in milk. 
The best substitute for milk, and indeed one of the best 
menstrua for pancreatic emulsion, is thin water-arrowroot, or 
barley-water. The emulsion mixes well with it, and by con- 
verting the starch into glucose, gives it a pleasant, nutty 
sweetness. Some patients declare that coffee is the best of 
all things to take it in. Many persons, however, prefer the 
emulsion mixed in water to about the consistence of new 
milk, and then flavoured with wine, especially Tokay,* 
ginger wine, or orange wine. In whatever menstruum it is 
mixed, it should not be made much thicker than new milk, 
and I advise a sufficient quantity of wine, brandy, rum, 
orange-brandy, ginger-brandy, or clove-brandy, to be added, 
to give it a decidedly cordial character both to the palate 
and to the stomach. 

" One of the most important points in getting the emul- 
sion well taken, is to have it smoothly mixed in the menstruum; 
this is easily done by putting the emulsion first into a cup, or 
glass, and then adding the menstruum little by little, and 
beating them together with a spoon; till the whole is made of 
about the consistence of oil, or of good cream; after which any 
quantity of fluid may be mixed by simple stirring; but if the 
emulsion is put in a lump into the menstruum, it may be 
difficult afterwards to get it smoothly mixed, especially in 
cold weather. The mixing may be facilitated by having the 
cup or glass made warm, or the chill taken off the menstruum, 
but it is not well to make it decidedly hot. 

" Some patients have asked to be allowed to take the emul- 
sion ' as it is ' with some brown sugar over it, and declare 

* The "Imperial Tokay" of Max Greger, is an admirable menstruum 
for Pancreatic Emulsion, and, in itself, is a fine restorative. 



APPENDIX. 257 

that they like it in that form. This is better than not taking 
it at all, but I prefer its being mixed into a more fluid state. 
A good many mothers have told me that their children take it 
spread on bread, instead of butter, and sugared. This is not a 
bad way of giving it, because in masticating it with the bread 
it gets well mixed with the food and saliva; I may men- 
tion also, that treacle posset, after it has cooled, is a very 
good menstruum, and pleases children when they are fond of 
sweets. 

" One more detail is worth alluding to, viz., to order a 
biscuit or a piece of bread to be eaten after the dose, so as 
completely to clear the palate of its taste and influence. 

" It is of the utmost importance to impress upon patients 
that cod liver oil and pancreatic emulsion are not to be regarded 
as medicines, but as articles of diet — Medicinal foods — without 
which they, in their state of health, will as surely starve as persons 
in health would do if deprived of the most nutritive part of their 
food. They should be ordered to be weighed whenever they 
leave off either the oil or the emulsion, and to weigh every 
week, to see if they lose or gain. So long as they do not lose 
any weight they may desist from their dose, but must at once 
return to it if there is the slightest diminution in weight. 1 
always order patients, on leaving off either oil or emulsion, to 
make an equivalent increase in the quantity of fat they eat, 
and to see whether by this means their weight can now be 
maintained, and thus to learn whether the power of digesting 
and assimilating a sufficiency of fat without artificial assistance 
has been restored." 



(B.) — Paper by the Author "On the Action op Pan- 
creatine upon Fat, and the Proper Form in which 
to use it." {Reprinted from the British Medical Journal, 
November 27, 1880.) 

I have watched with much satisfaction the reinforcement, 
under the flag of Dr. W. Roberts, of the interest in the 



258 APPENDIX. 

medical use of pancreatic preparations, first excited by my 
papers in 1864-6 ; and, hoping that nothing but good could 
come of Dr. Roberts' campaign, I have hitherto abstained 
from intermeddling. 

After carefully restudying Dr. Roberts' contributions, how- 
ever, I find myself, at last, constrained to come forward, to 
prevent more harm from being done by one part of his state- 
ments, than would be compensated for by all the good that 
could accrue from the rest. He has done excellent service by 
bringing prominently forward his experiments, confirmatory 
of the wonderful effects of the pancreatic secretion in digest- 
ing starch and albuminoids, and especially in formulating his 
results in the very useful recipe for "peptonised (pan- 
creatised) milk gruel," which seems somehow or other to 
have fascinated the professional mind more strongly than the 
forms for — pancreatised suet and milk ; pancreatised milk, 
egg, and arrowroot ; pancreatised milk-cocoa ; and pan- 
creatised nutritive enemata, published by me from time to 
time (1870, 1872, 1875, 1878, 1880). (See Special Recipes, 
pp. 173-4.) 

But it must be remembered that, while we have excellent 
means of digesting albuminoids and starch in pepsine and 
vegetable diatase, and, therefore, are not thrown upon the 
pancreas for these purposes for want of any other agent, this 
is not the case with regard to the emulsification (digestion) 
of fat by the pancreatic method. Here we are left entirely 
destitute if deprived of pancreatic action.* There is no other 
known means of arriving at the same sort of emulsification of 
fat as that produced by pancreatisation. Yet it is this special 
action of the pancreas on fats— so far the most precious of its 
powers — that Dr. Roberts disposes of, as though it were of 
the least importance to medical practice, in the following pas- 
sage : — " I have not had an opportunity of examining the 
behaviour of pancreatic juice with fatty matter, and cannot, 
therefore, speak of its properties ; but it is singular, if, as 
alleged, the effect of pancreatic juice and pancreatic tissue on 
fat is due to the presence of a soluble ferment, that the ex- 

* See Appendix, p. 267. 



APPENDIX. 259 

tracts of pancreas possess none of the same power I 

could not satisfy myself that any of these extracts possessed 
any special power of emulsifying fat." (JLumleian Lectures.) 

No one who has experimented much with the pancreas will 
be surprised that an experimenter should be so charmed by 
the almost miraculous celerity and completeness of its anxio- 
lytic and proteolytic action as to be in danger of neglecting the 
other properties of the secretion. But the emulsifying power 
of the pancreas is so remarkable, so unmistakable, and so impor- 
tant, that I am certainly astonished at Dr. Roberts' statement. 

I hope shortly to publish my private journal and correspon- 
dence relating to the experiments made by me, and for me, 
since 1863 ; but in the meantime I append to this article a 
few extracts from them, plainly showing the effect of the 
pancreas and of pancreatine on fat. 

Since the first experiments were mjtde by Mr. Heathornand 
myself in 1863, hundreds of thousands of pounds of fat have 
been made into pancreatic emulsion, simply by the action of 
the pancreas. There is no gainsaying this practical demon- 
stration of the power of the pancreas to emulsify fat. 

But it does not therefore follow that pancreatic extracts, 
essences, and liquors have the same power ; and what I wish 
most conspicuously to bring before the profession is, that Dr. 
Roberts is quite right in stating that they have not. These 
fluid extracts, essences, and liquors of pancreas were all tried 
by me years ago, and rejected as useless on this very account. 
They possess the amylolytic and proteolytic properties — 
which are easily obtained, and are convenient and useful for 
the digestion of starch and albumen — like pepsin and vege- 
table diastase ; but they do not, in a sufficient degree to be 
valuable, possess the peculiar special property of the pan- 
creas, that which no other substance at present known pos- 
sesses, viz., the power of converting fat without saponifica- 
tion into a true permanent emulsion, capable of admixture 
with water ; the property which I described and demonstrated 
to the Royal Society in 1868, and which was referred to by 
Dr. Letheby in his Cantor Lectures at the Society of Arts, 
shortlv afterwards, as follows : — 

s 2 



260 APPENDIX. 

"More than twenty years ago, Bernard proved what 
Valentin had long before suspected, that pancreatic fluid was 
concerned in the digestion of fatty matters ; bnt he fell into 
error in supposing that its action was to saponify the fat and 
to set free the glycerine. Here is a specimen of glycerine 
and of lead soap obtained from the fat upon which the pan- 
creatic fluid had previously acted, showing that saponification 
had not been effected. The true action of the pancreatic 
secretion is, evidently, to break up the large granules and 
crystals, and globules of oil and fat, into myriads of minute 
particles of from the 1 -3000th to 1-1 5000th of an inch in 
diameter. In this way, the fat is emulsified and converted 
into a milky fluid, which mixes freely with water. . . . 
We are indebted for this knowledge to Dr. Dobell. . . . 
When the fresh pancreas (that of the pig) is rubbed 
down in a mortar with twice its weight of hog's lard, it 
rapidly emulsifies it." 

Dr. Roberts speaks of its being "alleged" that this "effect 
of pancreatic juice and pancreatic tissue on fat is due to the 
presence of a soluble ferment ;" but he does not say who 
alleges this. In the introduction to my book on Tuberculosis, 
in 1866, 1 said, " We found that there are several active prin- 
ciples of the pancreatic secretion all essential to its proper 
functions. There is no one of these taken singly which com- 
pletely represents the true properties of the healthy pancreatic 
juice;" and in my paper to the Royal Society, in 1868, I 
stated that up to that time "all attempts to isolate the several 
properties of the pancreas into separate products had failed — 
no one of such products having been found to possess in per* 
fection the property of acting upon fat in the manner described 
in this paper as peculiar to the pancreas. By the term * pan- 
creatine,' therefore, I desire to represent the entire properties 
of the pancreas in a convenient form for keeping, for experi- 
ment and for administration as a remedial agent." The only 
preparation with which I am acquainted, which answers to 
this description is the pancreatine powder of Savory & Moore 
— practically, powdered pancreas. This was the outcome of 
the experiments made for me by Mr. Heathorn and Mr. 



APPENDIX. 261 

Schweitzer ; and it cannot be too emphatically stated that 
when the object is to assist in the digestion and assimilation 
of fat, the liquid pancreatines must be rejected, and no other 
preparation used except the pancreatine powder. 

Extracts from Private Journal on Experiments made for me* 
and by me, with Pancreas and Pancreatine. 

September, 1863. — " To prepare pancreatic emulsion, take 
the pancreas of the pig immediately after its removal from the 
body, and, after separating all external suet, dissect out the 
lobes, of which the pancreas is composed, avoiding, as far as 
possible, the rupture of the ducts which intercommunicate 
with them. . . . The pancreas, so dissected, will pro- 
bably weigh about 1 oz. avoirdupois. . . . This is to be 
well pounded in a mortar, and l£ oz. of tepid distilled water 
added. . . . Set aside to infuse in a water oven for 30 
minutes, at temperature 100° ; on removal, strain through 
muslin, and while still warm, mix with oil or fat in a fluid 
state, either by agitation in a bottle or trituration in a mortar." 
— (Signed) A. Heathorn. 

To this I noted that " the emulsion so made, under a J-inch 
object-glass, appears peculiarly equal, the oil globules being 
less than half the size of a blood corpuscle. This emulsion, 
treated with pepsin and hydrochloric acid and water, remained 
complete two days after such mixture." 

September, 1864. — "The emulsion with lard oil (made by 
the same process, is satisfactory. . . • It is a far more 
elegant pharmaceutical preparation than our former emulsion 
of beef fat." — (Signed) A. Heathorn. 

August 23, 1864. — "The total amount of emulsion con- 
sumed by the patients of the Royal Hospital amounts to 
156 lbs. avoirdupois, requiring 468 pancreases to emulsify the 
fat. The 33 patients consumed 105 lbs., requiring 315 pan- 
creases to emulsify the fat." — (Signed) A. Heathorn. 

October 29, 1864. — " I have recently succeeded in obtaining 
from the pancreas some of the secretion — viz., pancreatic 



202 APPENDIX. 

fluid. It possesses very active properties in emulsifying oil, 
and is, I think, one more proof of the reality of the pancrea- 
tic emulsion. The specimen I have preserved for your ex- 
amination." —(Signed) A. Heathorn. 

July 24, 1867. — Specimens of pancreatine and pancreatic 
emulsion were exhibited at the Royal College of Physicians 
at my request, and after the exhibition Mr. Julius Schweitzer 
wrote, July 27, 1867 : " I made this specimen of pancrea- 
tine on purpose for you. ... It will digest sixteen times its 
own weight of lard. For carrying out the experiment, I take, 
say, 1 grain of pancreatine, rub it up in a mortar, with about 
2 drachms of distilled water, and add 16 grains of lard, and 
mix the whole. I stir it together occasionally, till I find 
that the water has been absorbed, when I add a little more 
water, and, as before, stir it occasionally. It is best to com- 
mence this experiment in the evening, and to leave the 
mixture undisturbed all night ; next morning the pancreatine 
will be found to have acted on the lard, the mixture readily 
mixing with water ; and the above quantities will require 
about 3 oz. of water to form a smooth thick creamy emulsion. 
This emulsion still possesses the power to destroy the blue 
reaction of starch-paste, made of two grains of starch and 3 
or 4 oz. of boiling water. By itself, one part of this pancrea- 
tine destroys the blue reaction of starch-paste made of eight 

times its weight of dry starch The pancreatine does not 

decompose lard, it seems solely to alter the molecular condi- 
tions, adding perhaps, a little water, but rendering the single 
minute globules, into which it splits up the fat, able to sus- 
pend and emulsify the water. The glycerine is still left in 
the fat, and can be extracted from the first crude emulsion by 
means of ether, and combining it with oxide of lead. . . . This 
pancreatine also acts on albumen, but the extent of its action 
I have not yet ascertained. . . . All these experiments are 
made at the suggestion of. Dr. DoboH." — (Signed) Julius 
Schweitzer. 

On the next day, July 28, Mr. Schweitzer wrote to me : — 
" I tried the experiment of digesting white of egg, boiled hard, 
with pancreatine. I took one part of pancreatine and 20 parts 



APPENDIX, 263 

of boiled white of egg. I found that this was somewhat too 
much, but at a rough guess I should say that it dissolved about 
16 or 17 parts of the coagulated white of egg. It is a curious 
coincidence that one part of pancreatine emulsifies 16 parts 
of lard, digests 17 parts of dry starch, made into paste, and 16 
parts of boiled white of egg. 9 ' 

October 6, 1868. — The pancreatine exhibited at the Royal 
Society to illustrate your paper (December 12, 1867) is ex- 
actly the same as what is sold to-day. It is perfectly 
good, and possesses the same properties now as then. . . . 
Pancreatine is a very wonderful thing, and not half under- 
stood or appreciated at present." — (Signed) Julius 
Schweitzer. 



(C.) — From the proceedings of the Royal Society, No. 97, 1868. 

On the Special Action op the Pancreas on Fat and 
Starch. By Horace Dobell, M.D., &c. 

" I have been engaged for several years in experimenting 
with the secretion of the pancreas. The enquiry of which I 
now make known the results has reference especially to the 
mode of action of the pancreas upon fats — a point which has 
been the subject of investigation by various physiologists ever 
since, the discovery of the influence of the pancreatic fluid 
on the absorption of fat by Claude Bernard, nearly twenty 
years ago. 

" In the chemical parts of my experiments, I owe much to 
the efficient aid of my friend Mr. Julius Schweitzer, and to 
the energy and perseverance with which he carried out my 
suggestions under many difficulties. 

" The objects of my investigations have been as follows : — 

"1. To discover the exact character and nature of the influ- 
ence exerted by the pancreas upon fats. 

" 2. To discover a means of obtaining and preserving the 
active principles of the pancreas in a form suitable for experi- 



264 APPENDIX. 

ment in the laboratory, and for administration as a remedial 
agent, 

" 3. To discover the effects of the administration of the 
active principles of the pancreas as a remedial agent in certain 
wasting diseases, and to test, by an expertmentum cruets, the 
truth of a conclusion on this subject, at which I had pre- 
viously arrived by a process of inductive research. 

" I shall not occupy the valuable time of the Society by 
narrating the many more or less unsuccessful experiments, 
but restrict myself to a concise record of those attended with 
success. 

" Experiments were made with the pancreas of several 
different animals, but that of the pig was selected for the ex- 
periments of which I am about to give the results, as being 
nearest in the character of its functions to that of the human 
subject. 

" In order to ascertain the normal reaction of the pancreatic 
juice, and whether this is altered by the length of time that 
has elapsed since the last meal, the following experiment was 
made with the assistance of Mr. Schweitzer and of Mr. Harris 
of Calne, who kindly placed his extensive pig-killing estab- 
lishment at our service for the purpose. 

" On March 22, 1866, forty pigs were killed, and the pan- 
creas of each examined immediately after death ; the killing 
and examination were so rapidly conducted, that the pancreas 
was in each case examined while warm from the body ; and 
the killing and examination of the forty pigs in succession 
occupied less than an hour. 

" The pigs were killed ten at a time. The first ten had 
been fed two hours before they were killed, the second ten 
five hours, the third ten nine hours, and the fourth ten had 
not been fed for two days. 

" The pancreas in each group presented the same characters 
in size, colour, and reaction. Each pancreas was cut through 
so as to lay open the principal duct, but in no case was 
there any fluid iu the duct. Litmus-paper was applied to 
the interior of the duct and to the divided gland-cells, and 
on being pressed sufficiently against the tissues to absorb 



APPENDIX. 265 

moisture, the paper was in each case reddened where it was 
moistened. This acid reaction was not found in the fat 
and muscles of the animal. 

" At my request, Dr. Collins examined the reaction of the 
pancreas in a series of cases at the moment when all the di- 
gestive organs were under active excitement. He gave the 
pigs a good and relishing meal, and while they were eating it, 
divided the spinal marrow in the neck, so as to destroy sensa- 
tion in the body. The pigs were immediately cut open, the 
pancreas removed, and its reaction examined. On August 3rd 
he wrote me, * As you requested, I have tried a series of ex- 
periments upon the pancreas, parotid, and sublingual glands. 
The two latter have a decidedly acid reaction, but the pan- 
creas I am not quite so certain about ; in one batch of pigs 
killed in Buckinghamshire it was alkaline, but in another lot 
in Hertfordshire it was acid.' 

4 'The reaction of the pancreas is always acid when it 
reaches the laboratory for experiment as quickly as possible 
after removal from the animal. This we have proved in many 
hundreds of instances. 

" To discover the influence of the pancreas upon fat, the 
fresh pancreas of the pig, freed from all adhering blood 
and other extraneous matters, was cut into small pieces, 
bruised, and mixed with lard ; and to this mixture water 
was gradually added. In the bruised condition the pancreas 
had an acid reaction. By stirring this mixture of pancreas, 
lard, and water, the fatty character disappeared, a thick, 
white, creamy fluid being formed, which, On standing, solidified 
into a firm pasty mass. This mass had also an acid reaction. 
In order to free it from the debris of pancreas, it was pressed 
through muslin, and a uniform smooth creamy emulsion re- 
mained. This emulsion rapidly putrefied, but remained a 
permanent emulsion until putrefaction set in. 

" The following are the microscopical characters presented 
by pure lard before mixture with pancreas, and by this emul- 
sion, which I call * crude emulsion ': — 

"1. 'Lard' (pure). — Aggregations of ordinary acicular crys- 
tals of margarine. No oil-globules. No water. 



266 APPENDIX. 

" 2. ' Crude emulsion.' — A tolerably uniform granular mass 
with separate acicular crystals of margarine, oil-globules, and 
water abundantly distributed throughout the mass. In some 
places the crystals are aggregated as in No. 1. The granules 
range from the -3-3*^ to Tsifjm °f an mc ^ m diameter. 

" This mixture of fat and water differs from all other mix- 
tures or chemical combinations of fat and water in the follow- 
ing particulars: — 

" When the ' crude emulsion ' is put into ether, the ether 
separates it into two strata — 

a. An ethereal stratum above, containing the fat. 

b. A watery stratum below. 

" When the upper stratum (a) (ethereal solution of fat) is 
drawn off and the ether evaporated by a cautiously regulated 
heat, a pure crystalline, fat remains which I call ' pancreatized 
fat.' This pancreatized fat has no tendency to putrefy, and 
will keep for an indefinite period. It presents the following 
characters under the microscope : — 

" 3. ' Pancreatized fat ' (lard) consists of minute separate 
acicular crystals of margarine and fine granular matter uni- 
formly distributed. The special character is the complete loss 
of aggregation of the crystals. 

" This ' pancreatized fat ' retains the property of mixing or 
combining with water, and forming a thick, smooth, creamy 
emulsion, that it possessed in the form of * crude emulsion ' 
before solution in ether. The emulsion formed by mixture of 
' pancreatized fat ' with water I call * purified pancreatic emul- 
sion.' It has, like the crude emulsion, an acid reaction, and 
will keep for a very long time, and presents the following 
microscopical characters : — 

"4. 'Purified emulsion' (No. 3, spirit and water). — As 
nearly as possible the same as No. 2 ; the separate crystals 
more uniformly distributed, and fewer aggregations of them. 
No globules.* 

" On analysis of the lower watery stratum (b) resulting from 

* In cold weather it is necessary to gently warm the glass slide before 
placing the above specimens upon it, otherwise the solid constituents 
become agglomerated. 



APPENDIX. 267 

the separation of the fat of the crude emulsion by ether, it is 
found to contain no glycerine. 

"On analysis of the pancreatized fat (3) obtained by evapo- 
rating the ether from stratum a, it is found that 100 parts of 
the pancreatized fat are saponified by 54 parts of oxide of 
lead, and yield 146*25 parts of lead-plaster, and 6*75 parts of 
glycerine. 

" It is also found that every 100 parts of lard used in making 
the crude emulsion produce 106*5 parts of pancreatized fat, 
the increase of 6*5 parts being solely due to absorption of 
water, as proved by heating the pancreatized fat, when the 
water separates, and the pancreatized fat is reconverted into 
ordinary lard. 

" In all the foregoing respects the pancreatic emulsion of fat 
differs entirely from all other kinds of emulsion of fatty matter, 
whether chemical or mechanical. All other emulsions of fat 
are destroyed by ether, the fat being restored at once to its 
original condition. 

" The influence exerted by the pancreas upon fats, there- 
fore, appears to operate by breaking up the aggregation of the 
crystals of the fat. It alters the molecular condition of the 
fat, mingling it with water in such a way that even ether 
cannot separate the fat from the water. A permanent emul- 
sion is thus formed ready to mix with a larger quantity of 
water whenever it may be added. 

" The pancreas, therefore, in acting upon fat, does not de- 
compose it into fatty acid and glycerine, the absence of the 
glycerine from the watery stratum (b), and the presence of 
the glycerine in the pancreatised fat of the ethereal stratum (a), 
having been demonstrated. 

" Action of the pancreas upon starch. — It is well known that, 
in addition to the influence of the pancreas upon fat, it has 
the power of converting starch into glycose by simple mix- 
ture. This property remains to a certain extent after the 
pancreas has exhausted its property of acting upon fat. The < 
quantity of pancreas which before mixture with fat will 
convert about eight parts of starch into glycose, after satura- 
tion with fat will still convert about two parts of starch into 
glycose. 



4 



268 APPENDIX. 

" Second Object. — To discover a means of preserving the 
active principles of the pancreas in a form suitable for experi- 
ment in the laboratory, and for administration as a remedial 
agent. 

° The properties of the pancreas can be extracted from the 
tissue of the gland by means of water. This watery fluid 
putrefies very rapidly. It has an acid reaction, a deep yellow 
colour, coagulates largely by boiling, leaving the colour of 
the fluid unaltered. It may be precipitated by lead solution, 
and decomposed again by sulphuretted hydrogen. 

" When this watery fluid is evaporated, it forms a syrupy 
extract, which is highly hygroscopic and very difficult to dry. 
With great care and trouble, however, it may be dried. For 
general purposes, the drying is greatly facilitated by adding a 
dry absorbing powder, such as powdered malt. For experi- 
mental purposes, it may be used in its pure undried state of 
syrupy extract, but must in that case be used fresh. In the 
dry state, either pare or mixed with malt-dust, it may be kept 
good for an indefinite length of time, if protected from mois- 
ture in a well-closed bottle. This extract of the pancreas 
containing the active principles of the pancreas in the high- 
est degree of efficiency, whether fluid or powdered, I call 
* Pancreatine.' This term is only used for convenience* 
sake, and must in no way be understood to signify that the 
property possessed by it is single. All attempts to isolate 
the several properties of the pancreas into separate pro- 
ducts have failed, no one of such products having been 
found to possess in perfection the property of acting upon 
fat in the manner described in this paper as peculiar to the 
pancreas. By the term ' Pancreatine/ then, I desire to 
represent the entire properties of the pancreas extracted in a 
convenient form for keeping, for experiment, and for adminis- 
tration as a remedial agent. 

" One part of the pure pancreatine dried, without mixture 
with malt-dust, will digest at least sixteen parts of lard, and 
enable it to form a thick creamy emulsion, with about 100 
parts of water. The emulsion thus formed presents in every 
respect the characters and qualities of the emulsion produced 



APPENDIX. 269 

by the fresh pancreas already described. In this way, there- 
fore, the active principles of the pancreas may be obtained 
and preserved in a form suitable for experiment in the labora- 
tory and for administration as a remedial agent, 

" The Third Object of my investigations has especially 
occupied my attention in a long series of experiments at the 
Eoyal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. Full details of 
these and of the results obtained have been published from 
time to time, during the last four years in the medical jour- 
nals ; I shall not, therefore, occupy the time of the Society 
with any account of them in this paper."* 



II. 

On London Noise and London Sleep. 

(A). — Letter by the Author published in the " Times" August 
13th, 1869. 

Sir, — The London season is over once more, and every one 
is hurrying to get a dash of sea water or of mountain air, 
before returning to London work. Brain-fag, nervous exhaus- 
tion and worry are the universal complaints ; and who can 
wonder at it ? For where and when in this great city, I should 
like to be told, can any one secure six hours of undisturbed 
sleep ? 

If insanity increases, if doctors are more busy every year 
with diseases of the nervous system, if men and women wear 
out faster and faster, who can wonder, if he will take the 
trouble to consider how utterly our municipal arrangements 
ignore the necessity for sleep ? 

It is time, indeed, that we turned our attention to this vital 
question, upon which hangs not only the comfort and happi- 
ness of our best men and women of the day, but the actual 

* See the Author's work " On Tuberculosis, its nature, cause and treat- 
ment," 2nd edit., in which some of the papers here referred to are collected. 
Also " On Loss of Weight, Blood-Spitting, and Lung Disease." 



270 APPENDIX. 

value of their mental work, the continued sanity of their 
minds, and the mental calibre of their progeny. I am not the 
only member of my profession who has long desired to bring 
this matter into public notice ; far otherwise. Your columns 
might easily be filled day by day with the sore experiences of 
medical men on this point. But I see the evil increasing year 
by year, and I cannot longer keep silent when I see " holiday 
tasks " set to thinking men, to rob them of the only chance 
they had left of recreation and rest. 

If some of us are to be doomed to spend the recess in 
digesting Education Bills, and in speculations on the value of 
clipped sovereigns, at least let some others of us consider the 
value of a little sleep. 

This is a very simple question, and the evil appears to be 
susceptible of a simple remedy. It is a question of police ; 
and attention being once prominently called to its importance, 
there can be no excuse for its being longer neglected. The 
police should be made to keep our streets quiet during certain 
hours of the night. No attempt at this is made at present. 
The night policemen walk tacitly up and down, while every 
house in a street is being roused by the most abominable noises, 
without making the slightest attempt at checking them. It 
might not unfairly be asked that people should have a chance 
of sleeping from twelve o'clock till eight ; but, in the name of 
all that is sane, let them have the possibility of sleeping from 
two o'clock till eight. 

There is no such chance now. No one interferes to stop 
any amount of noise in the night and early morning. A party 
of cats may hold an uproarious concert in the middle of the 
road without even a " hiss " from the policeman to disperse 
them. Two " cabbies " may career down the opposite gutters, 
and hold conversation across the road at the top of their 
voices. A train of scavengers' carts may be driven down the 
streets, rumbling like thunder, while the driver in the last 
cart holloas his jokes to the man in the front. In some 
districts it is thought necessary to create the most infernal 
noise about five o'clock in the morning by setting a host of 
garrulous old men to scrape and stone the roads at that 



APPENDIX. 271 

pleasant hour. On Sunday mornings the paper boys are 
allowed to bawl with all their might. At any hour of the 
night, a fool in love with a concertina may disturb a whole 
neighbourhood with the noise he pleases to think music ; and 
no interruption is given to any number of drunken rollickers 
who choose to sing and holloa up and down our streets and 
squares. I have said nothing of the early organ-grinders, 
collectors of hares' and rabbits' skins, sellers of water-cresses, 
the inevitable dustman, the rows attendant upon balls and 
receptions, or a hundred other sleep preventers, too painfully 
familiar to those who turn into their beds between twelve and 
three o'clock in the morning, their brains fagged and excited 
by work — parliamentary, scientific, judicial, professional, it 
matters not which, or even by those unavoidable and weary- 
ing pursuits of social life which we call " society." Of the 
sick I dare not even speak, for to them this everlasting noise is 
simply murder. But for those in ordinary health, for those 
who are doing the brainwork of the nation, I ask for some 
chance of at least six hours quiet sleep out of twenty-four. 
Even this moderate allowance might suffice to restore the 
wear and tear of the day and refresh the spirits for the ever 
recurring fight. But such sleep is utterly impossible, as a 
rule, in the present state of things, and hence the yearly 
increasing decay of mental and nervous health. 

It needs but your aid, Sir, to procure a remedy. With pro- 
per police regulations the noisiest place in London can be kept 
comparatively quiet, as the citizens have shown in the main 
thoroughfare through their new meat market in Smithfield. 
There a couple of policemen, properly instructed, stop all 
unpleasant noise. I trust, then, that before London assembles 
again for work, some steps may have been taken to give us 
quiet streets for at least six hours out of the twenty-four. 



272 APPENDIX. 



(B.) — Leader from the "Times" referring to the 

above letter. 

" Our correspondent ' M.D.* may, we think, claim the credit 
of having suggested, or at least drawn public attention to, a 
new remedy for a very old and common complaint. The 
complaint cannot, indeed, be altogether got rid of without 
revolutionizing our whole system of modern life, for it simply 
amounts to this — that men now-a-days work so hard, and live 
in such a constant whirl of excitement, that neither body nor 
mind gets sufficient recreation or rest. The mind is naturally 
the greater sufferer, for the obvious reason that it may be 
kept almost incessantly in harness, and may be working 
its very hardest, while the body comfortably stretched on 
bed or sofa, is enjoying luxurious repose. It is scarcely 
too much to say, for instance, that men of anxious tempera- 
ment engaged in commercial speculations, during critical times, 
do not, from the moment they open their eyes in the morning 
to the moment they close them at night, know what it is to 
have ten minutes altogether free from absorbing calculations, 
how to avoid this possible piece of bad luck or turn good luck 
to the best advantage. Even when they try to banish these 
exciting topics — an effort, however, which over-anxious 
minds seldom make very strenuously — their brain, never- 
theless, will sometimes work in spite of them. And what 
happens to them happens, if in less degree, to nearly all who 
have to win their bread in professions and occupations where 
competition is keen. Hence it is, as ' M.D.' points out, that 
we see what are vaguely called ' nervous complaints ' steadily 
on the increase, often leading, if they are not at once taken 
vigorously in hand, to confirmed ill-health, and sometimes 
even to insanity. * It is time,' he declares, ' that we turned 
our attention to this vital question, upon which hang not only 
the comfort and happiness of our best men and women of the 
day, but the actual value of their mental work, the continued 
sanity of their minds, and the mental calibre of their off- 
spring.' 



APPENDIX. 273 

" We are afraid that nothing short of a miracle could pro- 
vide a complete remedy for the evil of which our correspon- 
dent complains. We should require a second Joshua to hid 
modern civilisation stand still or change its course. There 
are, indeed, philosophers who look hopefully forward to the 
time when men will be content to do just enough work to 
supply them with the means of gratifying their proper mental 
and bodily wants — when they will not be for ever jostling and 
struggling with each other in the arduous race for power and 
wealth. The philosophers may, for aught we know, be right, 
and it at least gratifies the benevolent instincts to picture our 
over-worked world some day settling down by universal con- 
sent into a blessed state of repose. But certainly there are at 
present no signs of this coming millennium. The nineteenth 
century notion of ' enough ' means ' always a little more.' 
Thus A may have plenty to eat and drink of the best, a com- 
fortable house, a charming wife and family, a large balance at 
his bankers to spend in the most pleasurable ways prompted 
by a cultivated taste — may, in short, have all that the philo- 
sophers consider essential to human happiness ; but all this 
avails nothing to keep A quiet while B remains a yard ahead 
of him in the race of life ; and no sooner is B distanced than 
he becomes equally solicitous about C. Nor is this always 
A's own fault, if fault it is to be considered, or his deliberate 
choice. He cannot stand still if he would, since to remain 
stationary where everybody else is moving on is to lose ground 
which cannot, perhaps, be made good. The successful mer- 
chant or professional man toils in his office all day, and then 
goes home late at night too tired and worn out to enjoy the 
home comforts and luxuries with which his wealth has ena- 
bled him to surround himself. If you tell him that he is 
throwing all his opportunities away, that he might as well be 
a poor man without these advantages as rich without time for 
enjoying them, and that he would be wiser to content himself 
with doing two- thirds of his present work for two-thirds of 
his present pay, he will probably reply that he gladly would 
do this if he could, but that he has no choice. He cannot do 
just as much work as he likes, and leave the rest undone, 

T 



274 APPENDIX. 

without danger of losing his position altogether. In the 
general rush of eager competitors from all quarters, he 
must go ahead with the crowd, or risk being left far behind 
and perhaps trodden down by it< When a man has attained 
so secure a position that he can please himself about taking or 
rejecting work, it usually either is time that he should retire 
upon his laurels, or else, if his health is good, long habit has 
made constant work such a second nature that he cannot get 
on without it. We are afraid that, until the promised millen- 
nium provides some substitute for the keen spirit of competi- 
tion, as understood and practised in the nineteenth century, 
there is no hope of escaping altogether from the growing evils 
of over-work, since every new invention which diminishes 
space and time, or otherwise multiplies facilities for commu- 
nication between man and man, only supplies fresh materials 
for the competitive spirit to work upon. 

" However, that we cannot effectually remedy the evils of 
over-work, and that it is steadily on the increases are only 
additional reasons for adopting what partial remedies we can 
find ; and 'M.D.' has at least one to suggest well worth pub- 
lic consideration. The best cure for over-work is obviously 
rest, and the best kind of rest is sound sleep at night. The 
first question usually that a doctor asks a patient suffering 
from ' nervous exhaustion,' ' worry,' or ' brain-fag,' is whether 
he sleeps well, and if the answer is in the negative, every plan 
is tried to Secure him that surest and safest of all restoratives, 
a sound night's rest. Yet in London, as ' M.D.' bitterly com- 
plains — and the complaint is repeated by other correspondents, 
whose letters we publish to-day— in which, as the busiest cen- 
tre of industrial and social life, the wear and tear of over- 
work is greatest, and the need for the best kind of rest propor- 
tionately pressing, no attention whatever is paid to procuring 
quiet nights. Anybody and everybody is allowed, without let 
or hindrance, to make night hideous by whatever discordant 
sounds may suit his jovial or fantastic mood, his pleasure in 
the performance being probably enhanced by the thought that 
he is disturbing all the commonplace, prosaic people who have 
tamely slunk off to bed instead of ' enjoying life ' as he does. 



APPENDIX. 275 

Our correspondent * M.D.' graphically described with the in- 
dignant energy apparently of a victim, the various nocturnal 
noises which in London murder sleep. It is not necessary 
here to re-enumerate them, or to say more about them than 
that they nearly all — certainly all the most objectionable— 
might be, if not altogether stopped, at least kept within less 
troublesome limits by the police* The police, for instance, can* 
not prevent cabs from remaining in or driving about the streets 
all night, but they can prevent the cabmen from carrying on a 
conversation in Stentorian tones with each other or the water* 
men or any late reveller who provokes them to a wordy war ; 
and although the reveller himself cannot be kept from wander- 
ing all night about London, he may at least be kept quiet with- 
out any unwarrantable infringement upon the liberties of the 
British subject, and it is to revellers that much of the nightly 
disturbance in town is due. Besides, the interference of the 
police, independently of its immediate and special effects, would 
generally exercise a beneficial influence by directing public at- 
tention to a question which, notwithstanding its vital import- 
ance, is now strangely neglected. Unless a law is so un- 
popular that people deliberately rebel against it, its natural 
tendency is to educate the public mind into a spontaneous 
appreciation of the practice it enjoins. Many Londoners, 
otherwise harmless and well-disposed enough, are often noisy 
at night simply because the duty of keeping quiet and allow- 
ing their neighbours to sleep undisturbed has never been fairly 
brought home to them. But if the violation of this duty came 
to be recognised as an offence, not merely in theory, but in 
practice, rendering the offender liable to be locked up some 
hours in a police-cell, and punished next morning by a magis- 
trate, the duty itself would acquire its proper importance in 
the eyes of all respectable law-regarding people. Nor would 
the indirect effects of police interference cease, we think here. 
In various other ways attention would be drawn to the ne- 
cessity of securing quiet nights in London. Streets would be 
paved, houses and windows be constructed, and even bedrooms 
chosen with much greater regard than at present to this point 
if its importance were more generally recognised — if, in fact, 

T 2 



276 APPENDIX. 

it became one of the standing sanitary arrangements of the me- 
tropolis. Now, although a vast number of Londoners suffer 
sadly from want of sleep at night, they have learnt by long habit 
to look upon it as a necessary evil, inseparable from London life. 
They bear with it, because their only notion of escaping from it 
is to rush off to some quiet place in the country where there 
are no night cabmen or drunken revellers, and by most Lon- 
doners the remedy would probably be considered worse than 
the disease. Yet, for all this, they do not at all relish the 
disease, but would gladly be rid of it, and if the police will 
take the matter up and endeavour gradually and judiciously, 
by making a few well-chosen examples, to protect the streets 
of London and other large towns from needless disturbance 
between, say, midnight and 6 or 7 o'clock in the morning, we 
are quite sure they will receive the thanks of the community, 
and may rely on public support." 



III. 

Bread Diet and Typhus Fever. 

Letter from the Author to the " Daily Telegraph," published 
during the prevalence of Typhus Fever in the Metropolis, to 
call attention to the mischief which may accrue from neglect' 
ing even one of the essentials of a normal diet. 

Sir, — The folly of the man who built his house upon the 
sands is familiar to all the world ; but there is a parable of a 
folly even greater than his. A people, knowing that a tem- 
pest was approaching, left out the mortar and the girders 
from the houses they were building, and when the tempest 
came, and the winds blew upon the houses, they crumbled to 
pieces before the storm. i 

It will hardly be believed that such an act as this is being 
performed, at the present hour, in the most enlightened city 
of Christendom, under the eyes of scientific and learned men, 



APPENDIX. 277 

in the purest innocence and good faith, and in the name of 
charity. Yet such is the plain truth. 

Typhus fever has made its appearance in the houses of 
the half-starved poor of this metropolis. It is a contagious 
disease, hut requires a particular soil to insure its fructification. 
Hence, out of any number of persons exposed to its poison, 
those suffer from the disease whose bodies present the most 
appropriate soil, and it proves especially fatal to those who 
are most strongly predisposed to its attack. It is well known 
to pathologists that in those who die of typhus all the tissues of 
the body, and the blood itself, are found to have lost their 
plasticity. Loss of plasticity in the body, and general want of 
vital force, constitute the characteristics of the soil in which the 
seed of typhus is sure to fructify. It would seem, then, but the 
most obvious common sense, that wherever the seed of typhus 
is known to be lurking every possible efEort should be made to 
secure that it shall find no appropriate soil— that no human 
bodies deficient in plasticity shall be at hand. Yet what is 
the real state of the case ? Typhus fever follows in the track 
of want. It fixes on some household where the effects of want 
are rife— i.e., where the inmates are reduced to the last ex- 
treme of poverty, and as a consequence are depending upon 
parish relief. Such a household is almost sure to be closely 
associated with others of the same class — depending upon 
parish relief. This parish relief means bread. 

The seed of typhus, then, is scattered amongst a community 
subsisting upon bread. Now the houses in the parable, built 
up without mortar or girders, are the analogues of the human 
bodies, built up out of bread. They have lost plasticity, and 
when the seed of typhus falls upon them, it takes root and 
fructifies, and they crumble to pieces before the storm of sick- 
ness. It is hardly possible to maintain the body in health 
upon bread alone. A long study of the composition of food, 
in relation to health, warrants me in making this assertion ; 
and I feel bound, in the cause of humanity, to call attention 
to this fact at the present moment, when the winter is at 
hand, and the poor of this city are threatened with such a 
scourge as typhus fever. 



278 APPENDIX. 

No food can maintain health in an adult, unless the average 
allowance for twenty-four hours yields to analysis from 3 to 4 
oz. of plastic material, from 2 to 3 oz. of fat, and from 8 to 
10 oz. of saccharine material. (See Essentials of a Normal 
Diet.) Compare this with the composition of bread. At 
least 32 oz. of bread must not only be eaten but assimilated in 
order to obtain 3 oz. of plastic material, the smallest amount 
which can be accepted as necessary to supply the daily waste 
of tissue. This assimilation cannot take place without a cer- 
tain proportion of fat, which fat is not supplied in the neces- 
sary quantity by the bread, and no other source of supply is 
provided by the parish relief. It thus becomes evident that all 
those poor creatures who are entirely dependent upon bread 
for their existence, are speoially prepared for the reception of 
typhus, and not less specially prepared for its fatal issue. 

Setting every other consideration aside, then, and taking 
simply the ground of economy, it is a frightful extravagance 
of the funds of a parish, not less than of its life, to issue 
rations of bread only to the inhabitants of districts where 
typhus fever is rife. Immediately a patient is stricken with 
typhus, the medical officer must call for wine, brandy, beef- 
tea, and the like, to the consternation of the Board of Guar- 
dians ; and after all this there will probably come at last the 
expense of burial. So that every case of typhus is a drain 
on the parish funds far greater than would have been made 
by supplying the extra food necessary to prevent it. If, then, 
the spread of typhus is to be checked, instead of encouraged 
— if it is to be rendered less fatal when it occurs, instead of 
more fatal — rations containing the proper elements of nutri- 
tion in their proper proportions and quantities must be secured 
to every member of a family in which one individual is affected 
with typhus, and also to all those persons who are associated 
with the infected household. 

There is considerable difficulty in selecting diets for the 
very poor, which combine cheapness and simplicity with the 
essential chemical composition and a form which the stomach 
will tolerate. But the two following will be found to fulfil 
all these conditions, so far as it is possible to do so without 



APPENDIX. 279 

the introduction of meat ; and in one of them bread is given 
in the largest quantity consistent with health : — 

1. Allowance for twenty-four hours : Bread, 25 oz. ; cheese, 
2 oa. ; butter, suet, or dripping, 2 oz. These yield to ana- 
lysis : Plastic material, 3*1 oz. ; fat, 2*3 oz. ; saccharine 
material, 11*4 oz. 

2. Allowance for twenty-four hours : Oatmeal, 16 oz. ; 
milk, \ pint ; butter, suet, or dripping, 1 oz. These yield to 
analysis: Plastic material, 3*0 09.; fat, 2*3 09.; saccharine, 
90 oz. 

To each of these diets must be added lime-juice or some land 
vegetable, salt, and a free supply of pure water, 



IV. 

On ALccmoL, 

(A.) — Temperance and Abstinence. — ("Med. Times 
and Gazette," November 23rd, 1878.) 

There is no question more interminable than that of Alcohol, 
its use and abuse. Again and again it has cropped out oa 
the surface of things, and there are not wanting signs of the 
possibility of yet another renewal of the discussion as to the 
proper use of alcohol in health and disease. No one, it is 
said, would argue for intemperance ; but the word is not absor 
lute — its meaning is merely relative, and what would be mo- 
deration in one man, or under one set of conditions, would be 
intemperance in another under it may be the same conditions, 
certainly under different conditions. ]^or should it be forgotten 
that abstinence is as truly intemperance as is the Improper use 
pf alcohol ; for, though the word be not often used in this 
sense, temperance strictly means moderation. We are led to 
make these remarks by the appearance in the Contemporary 
Review of what might be called a trilogy, or series of three 
essays, on the alcohol question. One, from the pen of Sir 
James Paget, treats of the contrast of temperance with 



280 APPENDIX* 

abstinence ; the second, by Dr. Lauder Bmnton, is on the 
action of alcohol ; and the third, by Dr. Bernays, argues that 
the moderate use of alcohol is true temperance. 

" It will, perhaps, be well for us on the present occasion 
to direct our attention to the first only of these essays, know- 
ing that it is the ripe expression of abundant experience 
couched in that felicitous language its distinguished author 
knows so well how to use. He begins by assuming that there 
is no need now to write such arguments against intemperance 
as would be required if it were defended by any reasonable 
sober person. But here, as already indicated, again we are 
met by the intangibility of the thing discussed. The temper- 
ance of one man would be intemperance in another. For some 
men a glass of wine would amount to intemperance, if by 
that we are to imply that he has taken more than is good for 
him ; whilst, on the other hand, there is many a veteran 
diner-out who habitually needs to correct his self-indulgence, 
but who would be shocked should anyone apply to him the 
title of ' intemperate.' About abstinence there can, appa- 
rently, be no such doubt. But it seems to us that a man 
(and there are many such) who deliberately abstains from 
taking that which is calculated to do him good, to increase his 
strength and vigour, and to give him that sense of well- 
being which a small quantity of alcohol often bestows — a 
sense, moreover, which is reflected on all around him — the 
man who deliberately rejects such goods as the gods provide 
him— may be abstinent, but he is not temperate. It is quite 
true that we can easily understand the mental position asserted 
in a certain proportion of these cases; but in some it amounts 
to sheer obstinacy, neither more nor less — an obstinacy often 
developed in more than one direction. Thus we can easily 
understand abstinence from alcohol in any shape or form as 
an article of a religious creed being adhered to as rigorously 
as, under other conditions, certain kinds of meat are rejected. 
Such a position is perfectly intelligible. So, too, we recog- 
nise the ground of action in that other group who, on the 
broader ground of Pauline doctrine, say, 'I will not drink 
wine lest my brother should offend.' But when we come 



APPENDIX. 281 

to deal with the large, energetic, and bigoted body who 
pretend to found their opposition to the use of alcohol on 
so-called physiological grounds, we are, as Sir James shows, 
and most reasonable men think, in a position to cope with them. 

" The plan of argument adopted in the essay now before us 
reminds us greatly of that of Bishop Butler in his ' Analogy 
of Religion/ but it seems to us that the strength of the argu- 
ments used is not so imperfectly balanced as in the case 
of that famous prototype. Those as well acquainted as they 
ought to be with Bishop Butler's great work, will remember 
how comparatively feeble are his direct arguments in favour 
of a future state ; how sweeping those against an opposite 
belief. But in Sir James Paget's essay the arguments for 
moderation are at least equally strong with those against the 
intemperance of abstinence. 

"The writer begins his argument with the fundamental 
proposition that we have no absolute means of deciding between 
the relative merits of moderation and abstinence. ' We have 
no statistics, and are not within the reach of any.' The 
so-called statistics forthcoming for the determination of such 
a question are absolutely without value, and so we are reduced 
to a lower class of argument, which, though less mathe- 
matically founded, may by overwhelming mass afford a con- 
clusion which .to all intents and purposes is unassailable. 
First the writer says, 'As for the opinions of the medical 
profession, they are, by a vast majority, in favour of modera- 
tion.' No one has had better opportunities of knowing this 
than Sir James Paget, and his opinion may be considered 
conclusive. True, there are exceptions to the general rule, 
but, if we put out of the way those who do not like alcohol, 
those with whom it does not agree, and that very objectionable 
set who take an opportunity of parading their virtues at every 
dinner-table, it must be accepted that the great majority of our 
profession are that class hateful to some fanatics, ' moderate 
drinkers.' Next, says Sir James Paget, we have against the 
moderate use of alcohol ' some deductions from physiological 
observations.' But he adds, some of these are really such, 
that if in place of alcohol we were to read common salt, they 



282 APPENDIX. 

would equally apply. Undoubtedly this is the case ; and 
common salt is as surely a poison as is alcohol, only it is 
not quite so often fatal. Nor need we tell our readers that 
tea, when used improperly, is followed by ill effects, not so 
serious perhaps, but quite as frequent as those of alcohol 
itself. Moreover, as Sir James Paget says, ' till we have 
experience large and clear we must not regard the facts 
of physiology concerning alcohol as more than reasonable 
suggestions, facts, or opinions, to be received with all respect, 
but to be practically tested before they can be regarded as 
practically useful, or as decisive of the question here dis- 
cussed.' Again, the writer says 'the beliefs of reasonable 
people are doubtless by a large majority favourable to modera- 
tion rather than abstinence, and this should not be regarded as 
of no weight in the discussion.' From all these points the 
writer argues that ' we fail to get any clear evidence that 
there is mischief in moderation.' 

" Next comes an important and, as we believe, a highly logi- 
cal passage in reply to the objection that the use of alcohol 
in any shape or form is not ' natural.' The essayist remarks, 
* Our natural state is that in which we live.' Had this doc- 
trine been fully thought over and acted upon by our fanatics, 
we should have had much less nonsense talked, and probably 
more good done. But in dealing with this natural and non- 
natural taste for alcohol, it seems to us that the writer has 
missed a point which scores well in the argument* For we 
cannot overlook the universal tendency to the use of alcoholic 
liquors or substitutes for them t Everywhere, we believe all 
over the world, wherever anything of a fermentisible nature is 
to be found, be it mare's milk, or the juice of the palm, there 
we find alcohol used in some shape or form, and always 
looked upon as something to be most highly desired. Nay, 
more — where, as among the Siberian Koraks, alcohol is not 
to be found, we find an intoxicating fungus taking its 
place. And is not the Mohammedan's coffee but a similar 
substitute ? So much for * nature.' 

" Turning to another part of his argument, Sir James Paget 
says, not only is the presumption not opposed to moderation, 



APPENDIX. 283 

but it is distinctly in its favour ; and to prove this point he 
has had recourse to a comparison between the east and the 
west, between those who do not use alcohol and those who 
do. He finds that the balance is distinctly in favour of the 
western races, not perhaps as regards longevity, but as 
regards 'working powers, whether bodily or mental.' And 
here comes a passage we cannot forbear to quote, it seems 
so full of a wisdom too often neglected. 'Longevity,' says 
he, ' is not the only or the best test of the value of things on 
which we live. It may be only a long old age, or a long 
course of years of idleness or dulness, useless alike to the 
individual and the race. That which is most to be desired 
is a natural power and will for good working, good thinking, 
and a long duration of the period of life fittest for these ; and,' 
he adds, 'facts show that these are more nearly attained 
by the peoples who drink alcohol than by those who do not.' 

" Again, comparing the north with the south, he finds that 
ascertained facts with regard to these establish a similar 
view. The northerners, the alcohol-drinkers, are ' better men 
in force of body and mind than are the heirs of the abstainers.' 
Next he argues, we, being the heirs of many generations 
of alcohol-drinkers, ought by this time, if the habit were so 
evil, to show signs of a degeneration which he denies to be 
the case. ' If then,' says he, ' healthy families are born after 
thirty generations of habitual drinkers of alcohol, how can 
we fairly charge its moderate use with doing mischief ? ' , 

" Finally he urges, granted that the excessive use of alcohol 
is mischievous, it by no means follows as a matter of necessity 
that small quantities will have similar effects. Take the case 
of quinine or of arsenic, where large quantities have totally 
different effects from smaller doses 

" One more quotation, and we have done. Sir James Paget 
ends as we began : ' What is this moderation ? How may 
we define it? Let those who thus ask try to define to the 
satisfaction of any ten persons what, under all circumstances, 
and to all peoples, is moderation in bread, or the wearing of 
jewels, in hunting, or in the language of controversy.' Modera- 
tion and excess in either direction, temperance and intemper- 



284s APPENDIX. 

ance, are but relative terms not always understood alike, and, 
if understood, certainly not acted upon." 



(B.) — "On the Physiological Action of Alcohol."— 
Abstract of a paper discussed at the Medical Society of 
London, by Dr. Lauder Brunton, January, 1876. 

Alcohol, in small quantities, iucreases the secretion of 
gastric juice and the movements of the stomach, and thus 
aids digestion. Although unnecessary in health, it is useful 
in exhaustion and debility. It increases the force and fre- 
quency of the pulse, by acting reflexly through the nerves 
of the stomach. In large doses it impairs digestion by 
precipitating pepsine, and over-irritating the stomach. It 
may produce death reflexly by shock. After absorption into 
the blood, it lessens the oxidising power of the red blood 
corpuscles. This property renders it useful in reducing tem- 
perature ; when constantly or very frequently present in the 
blood it causes accumulation of fat, and fatty degeneration 
of organs. It undergoes combustion in the body, maintains or 
increases the body weight, and prolongs life on an insufficient 
diet. It is, therefore, entitled to be reckoned as a food. If 
large doses are taken, part of it is excreted unchanged. It 
dilates the blood-vessels, increases the force and frequency 
of the heart, imparts a feeling of comfort, and facilitates 
bodily and mental labour. It does not give additional strength, 
but merely enables a man to draw upon his reserve energy. It 
may thus give assistance in a single effort, but not in pro- 
longed exertions. The same is the case with the heart ; but 
in disease, alcohol frequently slows instead of quickening 
this organ, and thus economises instead of expending its re- 
serve energy. By dilating the vessels of the skin, alcohol 
warms the surface at the expense of the internal organs. It 
is thus injurious when taken during exposure to cold, but 
beneficial when taken after the exposure is over, as it tends to 



APPENDIX. 285 

prevent congestion of internal organs. The symptoms of in- 
toxication are due to paralysis of the nervous system ; the cere- 
brum and cerebellum being first affected, then the cord, and 
lastly, the medulla oblongata. The apparent immunity which 
drunk men enjoy from the usual effects of serious accidents, is 
due to the paralysis of the nervous mechanism, through which 
shock would be produced in a sober condition. 



(C.) — Alcohol. — Leading Article from the "Lancet," 

January 1st, 1870. 

" After a great many fluctuations, professional opinion upon 
the question of alcoholic stimulation in disease appears to have 
recently achieved some real progress towards the establish- 
ment of satisfactory principles. There are still very wide 
divergencies between different authorities, and we fear that 
there is still a good deal of extreme and irrational practice, 
both in the direction of excessive stimulation, and of the 
opposite fault of an unreasonable fear of the remedy. But it 
seems to us that the outlines of a greatly improved knowledge, 
both of the therapeutic powers, and the capacity for mischief 
which alcohol possesses, may now be discerned. 

" In the first place, as regards acute diseases attended with 
febrile phenomena, three things are tolerably plain. The first 
is, that alcohol, when it acts well, acts as an antiphlogistic sti- 
mulant ; that is to say, it lowers abnormally high temperature, 
it reduces the frequency of the pulse, and, while raising ner- 
vous power, it calms those disturbances of the nervous system 
which attend, if they are not caused by, the elevated tempera- 
ture of the blood in pyrexia. The second great fact is, that 
there are the utmost differences between different pyrexial 
patients as to their capacity for receiving benefit in this way ; 
that a large number of persons, especially among the young 
and previously robust, do best without any alcohol ; and that 
among those to whom it is beneficial, there are some for 



286 APPENDIX. 

whom three ounces of wine per diem is fully the physiological 
and therapeutical equivalent of twenty-four ounces given to 
another and smaller class of patients ; and that nothing but 
careful tentative use of the remedy can tell, in any particular 
case, whether it is needed, and, if so, in what quantities. In 
short, that all generalisations to" the effect that you must, or 
must not, give wine by ounces, or by bottles, in fevers or in 
inflammations generally, are worthless and misleading. The 
third settled fact is this, that it is often in those cases where 
alcohol used (on purely theoretical grounds) to be thought 
most dangerous — viz., in cases with very high temperature 
and flushed face — that it produces its best effects ; and that 
to pour large quantities of stimulants into a fever patient 
simply because he is pale, and has a small pulse, is an unwar- 
rantable proceeding. 

" The above are certainties and the following are probabilities. 

" It is probable that alcohol owes part of its influence in 
fevers to an antiseptic agency, by which it destroys the activity 
of certain bodies — call them organisms, or not, as you please — 
by means of which the contagium sets up the febrile disturb- 
ance within the blood. In the case of inflammation, it is 
probable that alcohol, when it acts well, does so in part 
because it stimulates the sympathetic and contracts the 
arterioles, and in part interferes with the migration of blood- 
corpuscles through the vascular walls, as Binz and his pupils 
have shown that quinine can also do. It is probable that so 
far as alcohol can be applied to these purposes within the 
organism, it is of unmixed benefit. And there is much reason 
to believe that the singular differences between different 
individuals, as to the quantity of alcohol they can bear, depend 
on some unexplained difference in the respective rapidity with 
which alcohol is oxidised in the blood in different persons. 
For it is now known with certainty, on the one hand, that 
nearly the whole, even of a poisonous dose, is always oxidised 
in the body, and on the other hand, that the presenee of large 
quantities of unchanged alcohol for any length of time in the 
blood, inevitably poisons the nervous system. The antiseptic 
action, and the influence on the migrative tendency of the 



APPENDIX. 287 

corpuscles, are most likely produced immediately that the 
alcohol mingles with the blood ; it probably depends on the 
subsequent progress of oxidation whether the general effect 
on the patient will be good or bad. One thing is certain ; if 
signs of narcotism — i.e., paralysis of the nervous system — are 
produced, the alcohol is doing harm and must be immediately 

■ 

diminished or stopped. 

" As regards chronic diseases, we are sorry to observe that 
there is very much less of intelligent progress in medical 
opinion than in the case of acute diseases. It is much to be 
regretted that a large number, even of highly-educated practi- 
tioners, will persist in acting on the assumption that in non- 
febrile diseases the amount of alcohol to be administered ought 
to be measured by the degree of debility, merely as such. The 
direct and very mischievous corollary of this is the practice, 
unfortunately daily increasing, of prescribing stimulants with 
lavish profusion in those numerous nervous affections to which 
weakly persons (more especially women) are prone. It is our 
duty, as medical journalists, to raise our voices to the utmost 
against this tendency. We are no bigots against alcohol ; and 
we are heartily sick of the unthinking abuse which has been 
lavished on what it is the fashion to call ' indiscriminate stimu- 
lation in acute disease.' We declare our belief that the real 
mischief lies at the door of those who are indiscriminate (be- 
cause they are unthinking and illogical) in their prescription 
of alcohol for debility, merely as such. It is no figure of speech, 
but the literal truth, when we say that hundreds of neuralgic, 
hysteric, and epileptic patients have been driven into drunken- 
ness or lunacy, or both, by the careless folly of advisers, who 
had no better reason for the prescription of large doses of al- 
cohol than the fact that these diseases are attended with nervous 
weakness, as they undoubtedly are* The assumption involved 
— that so much ingested alcohol is necessarily so much added 
nervous strength — is so gross a fallacy that no one would 
assent to it if expressed in plain words. Yet we constantly 
see it acted upon. We repeat with all the energy of which we 
are capable, that it is a grave scandal and mischief that medical 
men should endanger in this serious way the powers of moral 



288 APPENDIX. 

resistance of women and other weak persons, while basing their 
practice upon ideas that are illogical and untenable ; and we 
trust that a reform in this respect will immediately be com- 
menced." 



On Dust and Disease. 

Abstract of a Lecture delivered at the Royal Institution. From 
The British Medical Journal, January 29th, 1870. 

"Professor Tyndall, in making some experiments on 
vapours, wished for a current of air quite free from the parti- 
cles of dust always seen in a beam of sunlight. He tried 
various means for this purpose ; one consisted in passing air 
through a tube filled with sulphuric acid ; another, in passing 
the air through a tube filled with solution of potash. In each 
case, particles, capable of refracting light, and rendering them- 
selves visible, were still present. In October, 1868, he hit on 
the plan of allowing the air to pass over the flame of a spirit- 
lamp. ' The floating matter no longer appeared, having been 
burnt up by the flame. It was, therefore, organic matter. If 
the air were sent too rapidly through the flame, a fine blue 
cloud was noticed. This was the smoke of the organic parti- 
cles.' The Professor was not prepared for the discovery that 
the dust of our air was organic. He had always considered 
it inorganic and non-combustible. M. Valentin now furnished 
him with a small gas furnace with a platinum tube which 
could be heated to redness. Air was passed through this 
tube when cold, and then when hot. When combustion was 
perfect, no particles could be detected. 

" Further experiments led to still more interesting results. 
A beam of light was made to illumine the dust of the labora- 
tory, and the flame of the spirit-lamp allowed to play on it. 
Wreaths of darkness were at once seen to mingle with the 
flame, just like intensely black smoke. ' When the flame was 



APPENDIX. 289 

placed below the beam of light, the same dark masses steamed 
upwards.' They were at times blacker than the blackest 
smoke. A red-hot poker placed under the beam produced the 
same dark wreaths. A large hydrogen flame led to the same 
result. Smoke was therefore out of the question. What 
then, was the blackness ? Simply that of stellar space, 
resulting from the absence, from the track of the beam, of all 
matter capable of scattering its light. 

" The Professor then remarked : ' Nobody could, without 
repugnance in the first instance, place the mouth at the illume 
nated focus of the electric beam and inhale the dirt revealed 
there. Nor is the disgust abolished by the reflection that, 
although we do not see the nastiness, we are churning it in 
our lungs every hour and minute of our lives.' The wondei* 
is, that so small a portion of this dirt should appear to be 
really deadly to man. What is this portion ? 

( ' The lecturer then alluded to the notion, at one time preva- 
lent, that malarious diseases were due to organic matter in a 
state of decay (fermentation). It was then shown that fer- 
mentation really depended on the growth of the yeast-plants 
Further, Schwann, in 1837, showed that meat, in contact with 
air which had been heated, did not putrefy; and he affirmed 
that putrefaction was caused by something derived from the 
air, which could be destroyed by high temperature. The 
germ-theory of epidemic disease soon followed, and found an 
energetic supporter in Sir Henry Holland, the present Presi- 
dent of the Royal Institution. The spread of cholera and that 
of small-pox were adduced as instances in support of the 
germ theory. 

" Professor Tyndall alluded to the difficulty that must be 
experienced in freeing surgical instruments (a canula, for in- 
stance) from the means of carrying contagion, in the presence 
of an atmosphere such as ours, unless a high temperature were 
employed, and this is not ' done. Thus, notwithstanding all 
the surgeon's care, inflammation often sets in after the use of 
such an instrument; When an abscess has been tapped, the 
pus, which was at first sweet, becomes foetid and swarms with 
vibrios. Professor Lister's views were quoted. 

U 



290 APPENDIX. 

" The Professor then said the dust could not be blown away 
with a pair of bellows ; but, if the muzzle of the bellows were 
stuffed with cotton wool, it was found that the air which 
escaped was free from particles. Schroder used cotton-wool 
as a filter in his experiments on spontaneous generation ; and 
subsequently it was used in those of Pasteur. Since 1868 
Dr. Tyndall has used it himself. 

" The most interesting and important illustration of such a 
filtering process is furnished by the human breath. After in- 
spiring a quantity of common air, a long expiration is made 
through a glass tube across the electric beam. At first the 
1 ominous track is uninterrupted. The breath impresses on 
the floating matter a transverse motion, but the dust from the 
lungs makes good the particles displaced. After a time, how- 
ever, an obscure disc appears upon the beam, and, at the end 
of expiration, the beam is, as it were, pierced by an intensely 
black hole, in which no particles whatever can be discerned. 
The air, in fact, has lodged its dirt in the lungs. A handful of 
cotton-wool placed over the nose and mouth during inspiration 
makes the dark hole in the beam of light appear from the begin- 
ning of expiration. A silk handkerchief answers nearly as well, 
but the nitration is not nearly so perfect as with cotton- wool. 

"In conclusion, the use of cotton-wool respirators was 
strongly advocated." 



VI. 

Ok the Impost ance and Dangers of Rest in Pulmonary 

Consumption. 

By Horace Dobell, M.D. (From the " British Medical 

Journal/' Nov. 22nd, 1873.) 

" Had not Mr. Heather Bigg brought forward my name as 
the originator of 'lung-splints' (Journal, November 1st, 
p. 530), I should not have thought it necessary, after all that 
I wrote on the subject in 1866-7, to join in the discussion 
on the importance of * rest in pulmonary consumption/ just now 
excited by the interesting paper of my friend Dr. Berkart. 



APPENDIX. 291 

"My object in now writing is not to enter into the dispute 
on the question of priority, but to issue a caution to those 
experimenting, either with Dr. Berkart's bandages or with 
my ' lung-splints/ lest anyone should think he has my autho- 
rity for running into dangers which I have been most careful 
to avoid. 

" It was in November, 1872, that, at my request, Mr. Bigg 
made the first ' lung-splint,' and I asked him to call it at once 
by this name, as conveying an unmistakable explanation of 
its objects. He arranged it with his usual skill ; it answered 
admirably, and he has made many others since, adapting 
each to the special requirements of the case. Before this, I 
had been accustomed to procure rest for portions of lung 
by other devices, principally by keeping the arm of the 
affected side flexed upon the walls of the chest so as to 
restrain expansion by its weight and by the absence of mus- 
cular action ; and it was the difficulty of sufficiently localising 
the pressure by these means to suit special cases that led me 
to suggest the ' lung-splint ;' but whether it be partial rest 
of the whole of one lung, or more complete rest of a portion 
of one or both lungs that is desired, the greatest caution is 
necessary ; because whatever local means secure rest to one 
part of the lungs, throw extra work upon the other parts, and 
may, therefore, easily do more harm than good. 

" For this reason, I have always used the greatest circum- 
spection in selecting cases for this kind of treatment, and I 
trust that, if anyone is led to follow my example in one part 
of this treatment, he will most scrupulously do so in the 
other. With this precaution, nothing can be more satis- 
factory or more common-sense, in the treatment of lung- 
disease, than the use of lung-splints, bandages, and the like ; 
whereas without it nothing can be more foolish. 

" The ' importance of rest in pulmonary consumption ' was 
a necessary corollary upon my well-known hypothesis as to 
the nature and cause of tuberculosis, viz., that tuberculisation 
is peroxidation of albuminoid tissue ; and in my work on that 
subject, published in 1866, and in my ' Lectures on the True 
First Stage of Consumption,' published in 1867, I brought 

U2 



292 APPENDIX. 

this prominently forward. In enumerating the means of 
carrying out the ' second principle of treatment in advanced 
tuberculosis, viz;., to save the albuminoid tissues from dis- 
integration to the greatest possible extent/ I said, * Let respi- 
ratory action be reduced to the lowest point consistent with 
maintaining what remains of appetite and digestive power.' 
(" Tuberculosis? 2nd edit., page 45) \ and again (page 47), 
* until this Joint is arrived at — until the balance is turned in 
favour of the albuminoid tissues-^e very thing which favours the 
reception of oxygen into the blood, everything which increases 
the wear and tear of the body, everything which calls for the 
generation of animal heat, directly favours tuberculisation, and 
precipitates the patient into the very catastrophe we wish to 
avert.' 

" When discussing the views of Dr. Pollock and of Dr. 
Edward Smith (" True First Stage," pp. 70, 71), I said, « It 
will be seen how entirely I disagree with Dr. Pollock in his 
interpretation of the phenomena which he has so carefully ob- 
served. While fully admitting and appreciating the con- 
servative action of the organism in disease, I fail to see an 
example of it in the wasting of consumption, which appears 
to me to be the unavoidable effect of an arrest of the supply 
of an essential material for combustion and for histogenesis — 
an arrest in the supply of that for which it is impossible 
to stop the demand while life continues. On the other hand 
I can see an example of conservative action in the attempt 
instinctively made by the patient to stop this demand by lessen- 
ing respiration, abstaining from exertion^ and seeking artificial heat 
— phenomena which Dn Edward Smith interprets so differ, 
ently. While fully admitting with Dr. Smith that, in early 
phthisis, respiration is diminished, I believe that he is totally 
wrong in his interpretation of its meaning. It is a law of 
animal nature to save a tender part, and I see, in the attempt at 
lessened respiration in early phthisis, an example of the opera- 
tion of this law. The blood in the pulmonary circulation 
is deficient in the materials which the inhaled air seeks, 
the delicate tissue of the lungs is exposed to injury by the air, 
through deficiency in its usual protection of fatty blood, and 



APPENDIX. 293 

nature comes to the rescue by attempting to diminish the 
quantity of air that is brought into the unprotected lungs, just 
as she shuts off the access of light from an inflamed retina 
by closing the iris or the eyelid.' In referring to climatic 
treatment, I said (" True First Stage," page 50), ' the second 
object of climatic treatment — economy of fat and carbon in the 
organism, and protection of the lungs from undue oxidation, 
i.e., provisional protection against tuberculisation — is of the 
greatest importance . . . We must look for an atmo- 
sphere sufficiently warm to save some of the demand for 
carbon to supply animal heat, and we must look for a 
place where this warm diluted air can be breathed with as 
little exercise as possible.' I recapitulate these statements, 
because it has been under the dictation of the principles to 
which they refer that I have been accustomed to prescribe rest 
in pulmonary consumption, whenever tuberculisation has 
commenced or is already imminent. First, rest of the whole 
body ; secondly, rest of the whole of both lungs ; thirdly, rest 
of one lung ; fourthly, looalised rest of diseased portions of lung, 

" Those who enter into my views as to the importance 
of avoiding peroxidation of lung-tissue in consumption, will 
at once see how dangerous may be the effect of throwing 
exaggerated action upon one portion of lung by the attempt to 
control the action of another portion. If the disease by which 
the one portion was damaged had been purely local, there 
would be no danger, worth considering, in taxing the sound, 
parts to save the unsound ; but, when we consider consump- 
tion as 'an abnormal physiological state' of the constir. 
tution, exposing all parts of the lungs to destructive changes, 
we at once see how much caution is required in determine 
ing that it is safe to throw exaggerated action on parts which 
may be only needing this excitement to subject them to 
the same destructive changes as those taking place in the 
portion of lung we wish to save by localised rest, 

" The rules for the cautious application of localised rest in 
lung-disease which I recommend, as dictated by a considera. 
tion of the nature of tuberculosis, and justified by the results 
pi my own practice, are as follows : — 



294 APPENDIX. 

" 1. If one long, or a portion of one lung, or a portion of 
each lung, has become diseased, under circumstances which 
make it certain that there is no constitutional cause of lung- 
disease, then it is safe to secure localised rest for the diseased 
part, and to throw the extra work upon the sound parts ; hut 
even then it is necessary to be cautious that the extent of 
lung so rested is not too large in proportion to the extent 
of sound lung upon which the extra work is thrown. If 
there is any question about this, rest of the whole body must 
be secured in addition to the localised rest of lung, so as 
to save the sound lung from as much work as possible. 

" 2. If there is a constitutional cause of lung-disease, but 
only a small area of lung at present suffering, and that in the 
upper lobes, while there is a capacious chest with large areas 
of lung in the lower portions quite sound and insufficiently 
used, then it is safe to secure localised rest for both upper 
lobes, and to make the lower portions do a fairer proportion of 
the work ; but even under these circumstances, the respiration 
should be kept at as low a point as practicable. A case illus- 
trative of this rule has just occurred to me. A fine young 
man, with a very capacious thorax, who has practised all sorts 
of gymnastic exercises with his arms while restricting the 
lower parts of the chest by dress, has thus acquired a habit of 
breathing almost entirely with the upper portions of lung. He 
has a tuberculous family history ; and, after foolish over- 
training, by which he reduced his flesh considerably, he over- 
taxed his lungs in a race, and he has since become the subject 
of partial consolidation of the apices and recurrent haemoptysis. 
Finding that he has large tracts of scarcely utilised lung at 
the lower parts of the chest, I have not hesitated to get Mr. 
Bigg to & PPty mechanical restraint, by means of lung-splints, 
to both upper lobes ; but I have, at the same time, secured 
rest for the whole lungs by sending the patient on a long sea 
voyage to a warm climate, under careful watching against 
over-exercise. 

"3. If a portion of lung has become disintegrated, under 
the influence of constitutional causes, and remains obstinately 
unhealed after all constitutional symptoms have been arrested, 



APPENDIX. 295 

and, for some time past, no other portions of lung have shown 
a tendency to yield, then I think it is quite safe to secure 
localised rest for the disintegrated portion, so as to give it a 
fairer chance of healing ; while an amount of air and exercise 
may he allowed to the patient, for the purpose of improving 
his reparative powers, which could not be permitted while the 
damaged lung was exposed to the same amount of action as 
the sound parts. But even here the utmost caution is required 
not to carry the exercise beyond a very limited amount. 

"4. If the constitutional tendency to lung-disease — 'the 
abnormal physiological state ' — is strong, and signs of impend- 
ing mischief in the lungs are scattered, no localised rest should 
be attempted, but every means should be brought to bear upon 
the important object of maintaining respiration at its lowest 
point, consistent with life and nutrition, until the constitu- 
tional tendency has become passive and the local symptoms 
have been removed. 

"In conclusion, to prevent misapprehension on so vital a 
point, let me remind my readers that, in urging ' the impor- 
tance of rest in consumption,' I am referring to cases in which 
the lungs are already damaged, or in which the constitutional 
disease has declared itself in sufficient force to render tuber- 
culisation imminent. ' If the symptoms are only what is com- 
monly called premonitory, that is, if they are those of 
commencing tuberculosis, and no reason or sign is discoverable 
which justifies the suspicion that tuberculisation has com- 
menced ; if a sufficiency of fat remains without calling upon 
the albuminoid tissues, the principles of treatment are quite 
opposite to those above detailed.' (" Tuberculosis," 2nd edit., 
page 47.) ' It must be admitted that the proper regulation of 
this matter is one of the greatest trials of the astuteness of the 
physician, and it is almost impossible, unless he can make the 
patient and his friends comprehend its meaning and impor- 
tance. But not less does it test the skill and judgment of the 
physician to decide upon the moment when restrictions upon 
fresh air and exercise ought to be removed. The argument 
so often used when a patient appears to be ' doing well ' that 
f it is best to let well alone,' may be fatal if applied to this 



296 APPENDIX. 

case. The very fact that he is ' doing well ' may be the sign 
that he must not be ' let alone ; ' that he is now in a state in 
which it is safe to make a call upon his mechanical force, to 
accelerate histogenesis, to supply fresh oxygen — in a word, to 
set about the restoration of active nutrition. And then, again, 
how scrupulously these new tasks should be set ; how care- 
fully watched in their effects, lest even now they cannot be 
continued with safety ! On the first sign of their being badly 
borne, they should be moderated or promptly stopped." (" True 
First Stage," page 46.) 



VII, 

On the Digestibility of Gelatine-yielding Tissues. 
From the "London Medical Record," Jan. 20th, 1875. 

" J. Etzinger (Zeitschrift fiir Biologie, 1874, Band x., ab- 
stract in Centralblatt fiir die Medicin, Wissenschaften, No. 45, 
1874) tested on the one hand the action of artificial gastric 
juice on the ligamentum nuchas, tendon, cartilage and bone ; 
and on the other hand fed a dog, whose excretion of nitrogen 
was diminished to a constant low value by being allowed to 
hunger for several days, with the proper substances. 

" The increase in the quantity of nitrogen after the supply 
of the above substances is taken as the standard for their 
utilisation in the body. 

" 1. Bones. — Bone powder prepared by rasping the com- 
pact substance of ox-bones, dissolved tolerably richly in 
hydrochloric acid (0*3 per cent.). After ten days' digestion 
of 10 grammes (150 grains) of the powder, with in all 1,200 
cubic centimetres (rather more than 40 ounces) of dilute acid, 
only 1*83 grammes remained undissolved. The residue was 
richer in organic substance than the original substance ; or^ 
ganic substance, however, being plentiful in the solution. 
The dog experimented on showed, after taking 150 grammes 
of bone, an increase in the excretion of urea of about 8 
grammes per diem. An absorption of lime frpm the bones 



APPENDIX. 297 

could not be proved ; on the contrary, the quantity of this 
mineral in the urine showed a diminution. The author sup- 
poses that the cause of this phenomenon lay in the diminished 
decomposition of the tissues of the body through the supply 
of gelatine. The phosphoric acid showed a small increase. 
Corresponding to this, the faeces evacuated during feeding 
with bones contained 3085 grammes of ash, i.e., somewhat 
more than the supplied bones. 

" 2. Cartilage. — Costal cartilage of a calf dissolved in not 
inconsiderable quantity in a 0*3 per cent, solution of hydro- 
chloric acid (e.g. 24*3 per cent.) ; but much more on the addi- 
tion of pepsin (74*9 per cent.) . After feeding with cartilage, 
the fasces only contained traces thereof; the excretion of urea 
showed an increase of about 1 1 grammes after feeding with 
72-2 of dry cartilage at 100° Cent. 

" 3. Tendons were affepted little by the action of a 0*3 per 
cent, solution of hydrochloric acid. After eight days' diges- 
tion the amount dissolved in the pepsine mixture was 12*05 
per cent. ; on the contrary, pi ter three days they were broken 
up and dissolved, and 94 per cent, had gone into solution. 
The solution did not form a jelly after neutralisation and 
evaporation. The ligamentum nuchas of an ox conducted it- 
self similarly; on digestion for ten days it disappeared com- 
pletely, only an unimportant residue remaining. The dog, after 
hungering for several days, received in one day 367*1 grammes 
of tendon, on the next 360*3 grammes, corresponding to 
245*8 grammes of the dried substance. In the faeces only a 
very minute quantity of tendon could be found. The ex- 
cretion of nitrogen in the urine rose to 21*2 grammes (the 
tendon contained 46*4 grammes). 

"All gelatine-yielding tissues are therefore capable of 
digestion and utilisation ; most extensively tendon, then 
cartilage, and lastly bone, of which less organic substance is 
absorbed, probably on account of its rapid passage through the 
intestinal canal. The author confirms the results of Frerichs 
and Kiihne, that gelatine, by digestion with pepsin and hydro- 
chloric acid, loses its property of gelatinising,'* 



298 APPENDIX. 

vm. 

Nutritive Edemata. 
From ike " Lahcet," FA. 1st, 1874. 
**In the experiments upon digestion, lately performed by 



Czerny and Latschenberger (Virchow's Archw. 9 Band lix~, 
Heft iL), comparative trials were made between the materials 
introduced into the large intestine, and the same acted npon 
outside of the body with the secretion obtained from the 
mucous membrane. Portions of hard-boiled white of egg and 
shreds of fibrine remained unchanged, preserving the sharp- 
ness of their angles and borders, when exposed to the action 
of the mucus at a temperature of 100? for two or three hours. 
No emulsion could be obtained by shaking up olive oil and 
the mucus ; and no conversion of starch into sugar could be 
thus produced, even after the lapse of several hours. Similar 
cubes of hard-boiled white of egg were retained in the rectum 
in small perforated capsules for no less a period than ten 
weeks, and yet on withdrawal exhibited no indication of any 
digestive action. Experiments made with soluble albumen in 
like manner showed that the large intestine of man exerts no 
digestive action upon it. 

" Other experiments, made with a view of determining the 
absorptive capacity of the portion of intestine under observa- 
tion, and which, as before stated, was estimated at about 240 
square centimetres, showed that in the course of seven hours 
the quantity of water that could be taken up was from 617 to 
772 grains. They showed also that although the intestinal 
juices exerted no digestive action on albumen, and no emul- 
sifying action on fat, yet that the walls of the intestine were 
capable of absorbing both albumen when introduced in the 
soluble form, and oil if it had been previously emulsified. 
The quantity of soluble albumen absorbed was always propor- 
tionate to the time. Any irritation applied to the intestine 
checked the process of absorption, and, if violent, stopped it 
altogether. Raw white of egg was found to be an unfavour- 
able form for absorption. The best mode of preserving life 
by means of injection is often an important subject of con- 



APPENDIX. 299 

sideration, especially in cases of cancer of the intestine ; and 
these experiments accord with the observations and recom- 
mendations of Leube, that whilst comparatively little benefit 
can be obtained from the injection of the raw material of our 
ordinary diet, considerable quantities can be absorbed, and 
much improvement can be produced in the strength and 
health of the patient, if the substances have been previously 
subjected to operations by which they are partially digested 
— as, for instance, if fat be emulsified, if albumen be reduced 
to the soluble state, and if starch have been converted into 
glycose." 



IX. 

Infantile Mortality. 
Letter from the Author published in the " Times," Feb. ±th, 1862. 

" Sir, — I think it will be a great satisfaction to those who 
have taken an especial interest in Infant Mortality to know 
that some of the chief hospitals of London have now under 
the consideration of their Committees and Medical Officers a 
plan calculated to make a great reduction in the mortality of 
infants, and in the deaths at all periods of life short of mature 
old age. 

" It is proposed to organise a department in connection with 
each hospital in which every patient on leaving the establish- 
ment will be thoroughly examined, to discover what damage 
has been received by the late illness, and also what hereditary 
and other predispositions exist to future disease. These points 
having been ascertained, each patient will receive written 
instructions as to the best diet, regimen, habits, clothing, 
and the like, for the prevention of a return of the illness from 
which he has just suffered, and for the prevention of other 
diseases or evil consequences to which he is liable through 
damaged organs, constitutional predisposition, calling in life, 
former habits, or the like. He will at the same time be given 
a card to admit him to a repetition of the examination after an 
interval of six months. 



300 APPENDIX. 

" Everyone intimately acquainted with the causes of disease 
— the real, not the apparent causes — is fully aware that 
although the death may occur during the course of some well- 
known disease, to which it is therefore commonly attributed, 
yet that the cause of fatality in that disease is, in the majority 
of cases, due to the previous state of the person's constitu- 
tional health ; that, therefore, it is the previous state of im- 
paired or low health which is the real cause of death. So it 
is that one person dies and another recovers from the same 
disease. 

" Attention was drawn to these states of ' low health ' by 
you, Sir, in the ' Times ' of August 4, 1858, in an article 
which pictured in most forcible language the extreme fre- 
quency and the dire miseries of this * low health.' The plan 
now under the consideration of the hospital authorities aims 
directly at the removal of this ' low health ' and its conse- 
quences by instructing each individual in the means peculiarly 
suited to the preservation of health under his own special 
conditions of life. Should the plan be successfully carried 
out there can be no doubt that in the course of time it will 
have a remarkable influence in reducing the fatality of disease 
among the poor. 

"If I dared trespass further on your valuable space, I 
might point out the important influence on infant mortality 
exercised by the health of the poor man's wife, and the extra- 
ordinary ignorance which exists among these persons of the 
proper means, and of the importance, of maintaining their own 
health for the sake of their children. I might tell how, every 
day, we see the mother allow herself to become anaemic ; the 
anaemic mother bear rickety children ; and these rickety chil- 
dren swell the list of preventible deaths from bronchitis, 
whooping-cough, measles. These are matters which will 
especially engage the attention of those who carry out the 
plans to which I have referred." 



**m 



APPENDIX. 301 



X. 



On the Prevention of Disease and the Diminution 
of its Fatality by Periodical Examinations. 

A Paper by the Author read at the Quildhall, June 7th, 1862, 
before the Public Health Department of the "National 
Association for the Promotion of Social Science" 

The object of this paper is to bring under the notice of the 
Association what I believe to be a most important means of 
rendering persons less subject to attacks of disease, and of 
diminishing the fatality of diseases when they occur. 

This means consists in a system of periodical medical 
examinations during the course of ordinary health ; each 
examination being followed by such hygienic or other advice 
as may be found necessary at the time. 

Whether the public, generally, will ever have the foresight 
to adopt such a system remains to be seen. My own opinion 
is that, to a great extent, they will, if its objects and import- 
ance are sufficiently made known; 

But it is within our power to provide for the poorer 
classes a certain amount of the advantages of such a system. 
In this paper, therefore, I shall confine myself to the ques- 
tion of providing these advantages for the persons who 
frequent hospitals. 

I recommend that the authorities of each hospital shall 
organise a department, to which every patient discharged 
from its wards shall be submitted before returning to the 
duties of life. 

The business of this department would be as follows : — . 

1st. To examine the patient most carefully, for the pur- 
pose of detecting what damages the organism has sustained 
during the last or any previous illness, and what hereditary 
or other predispositions exist either to a recurrence of former 
diseases, or to the invasion of fresh ones. 

2nd. To give the patient written instructions as to the 
best means of avoiding the evil effects of any damages the 
organism has received* or of removing those damages, and 



302 appesd; 



as to the best means of preventing the recurrence of dis- 
eases from which he has alread y goffered, or to which he is 
predisposed bjhis calling in life, or by hereditary or other 



3rd. To give the patient a card to admit him to a repetition 
of the examination after a stated interval. 

The object of the department would be, in a word, to see 
that every patient, on leaving the hospital, was folly in- 
structed in the best means of preserving his health under his 
own peculiar conditions of life. 

Those who are acquainted with the arrangements and 
working of hospitals will not need to be told, that nothing of 
this sort is systematically done at present, and that it is not 
possible to do it without organising special departments for 
the purpose. 

My statement, thai this plan, if properly carried out, "will 
render persons less subject to attacks of disease^ 7 is based upon the 
well-known facts : — 1st. That nearly all diseases require 
that the individual to be attacked shall already suffer from 
some disorder of the health, which predisposes him to be af- 
fected by morbid influences to which he would not otherwise 
be susceptible. 2nd. That diseases which have a tendency 
to recur in the same individual are nearly always pre- 
ceded by some premonitory symptoms ; and that, in most 
cases, means may be adopted in these premonitory states by 
which the recurrence of the disease may be prevented. 

My statement that this plan, if properly carried out, " will 
diminish the fatality of diseases when they occur," is based upon a 
fact, well known to medical men, although far too little borne 
in mind ; a fact which I have attempted to demonstrate and 
to impress in a course of lectures, now before the medical 
public, viz., that in nearly every disease to which death is 
popularly attributed, the real cause of death is not that dis- 
ease itself, but some previously existing defect in the health 
of the individual which makes an otherwise curable disease 
end in death. This statement is also based upon another 
fact, which I have attempted to demonstrate and impress in 
my Lectures, viz., that the normal functions of the organism 



APPENDIX. 303 

include a power to conduct a natural process of cure in 
nearly all diseases, provided the organism is in a healthy con- 
dition and surrounded by healthy conditions of life. 

The way in which a curable disease becomes fatal through 
a previous and preventible defect of health, is well illustrated 
by the deaths from whooping-cough. If a child is in normal 
health, and surrounded by normal conditions of life, whooping- 
cough is a disease having a natural termination in health, and 
leaves the child undamaged. If, on the other hand, the child 
is rickety, whooping-cough is a most fatal disease, and the 
child will probably die ; or, should it recover, will have re- 
ceived such damage to its organism as may prove a cause of 
death at some future time. The fatality of the whooping- 
cough, then, is in this case due to rickets, which is a preventible 
disease. But after the whooping-cough has set in, it is too 
late to prevent the rickets, and hence, too late to prevent the 
death from whooping-cough. This is the important point to 
bear in mind. 

The fertile cause of rickets in the child is debility in the 
mother, before its birth and during lactation. Whatever 
means, therefore, could find out this state of debility in the 
mothers, and provide for its removal, would prevent the 
rickets in the children, and as a necessary consequence, would 
prevent the deaths from whooping-cough to which I have 
referred. 

I beg to submit to the Association, that just such a means 
of detection and prevention is provided in the system of 
periodical examination and sanitary instruction which I have 
recommended. 

To obtain the full effect of this system, the examinations 
should, undoubtedly, be repeated at moderate intervals ; but, 
supposing this to be impracticable amongst the poorer classes, 
a large amount of the advantages would be obtained by the 
examinations being made and the instruction given when 
patients are about to leave hospital. 

It is well known, that one of the most fruitful and common 
causes of impaired or low health is imperfect convalescence after 
illness. Some years ago I examined and noted the state of 



304 APPENDIX. 

health of patients about to leave St. Bartholomew's Hospital, 
and I found that a very large number were anaemiated when dis- 
charged, and jet there is no hospital in which the diet-scale, 
and the allowance of extra medical comforts during convales- 
cence, is more liberal than at St. Bartholomew's. 

The time at which a patient leaves hospital after illness, is 
then, a most advantageous one for the examination, not only 
because instructions are then required as to the complete 
restoration of strength ; but because it is the time at which 
any fresh damages which the organism has received may be 
detected before they have been aggravated by mistakes in the 
habits of the patient ; and, also, because the patient is then 
most deeply impressed with the evils of sickness, and the value 
of health. 

The example I have given of deaths from whooping-cough, 
due, as their real cause, to debilitated health in the mother, 
and consequent rickets in the child, I have only chosen 
because it is so simple and familiar. It is but a specimen of 
what occurs in a multitude of other diseases ; and it may 
tell the tale for the rest. 

" A pebble, in the streamlet scant, 

Has turned the course of many a river ; 
A dew-drop on the baby plant 
Has warped the giant oak for ever." 



APPENDIX. 305 

XL 
Diet and Regimen in Typhoid Fever. 

Except, perhaps, ulcer of the stomach, there is no com- 
plaint in which the question of life or death is so imminently 
associated with diet and regimen as in Typhoid fever. A little 
solid food on the wrong day may easily mean death to the 
patient — a scrupulous adhesion to a fluid diet for the proper 
term may as easily mean life. Rest and quiet may determine 
the favourable course of a fever which without it would have 
been fatal. 

The results of my own experience coincide with the 
statements contained in the following quotations from Sir 
William Jenner, to whose careful and intelligent observations 
in the early part of his career, we owe nearly all that is of 
vital importance in our knowledge of typhoid fever 



(A.) Extracts from an Address on the Treatment op Typhoid 
Fever, delivered before the Midland Medical Society at 
Birmingham, Nov. 4th, 1879, by Sir Wm. Jenner, 
Bart., M.D., K.C.B., F.R.S., etc., etc. (The Lancet, 
November 1 5th, 1879.) 

" Some of the worst cases of typhoid fever I have ever seen 
have appeared to me to owe their gravity to the patient 
having travelled, after the commencement of the sense of 
illness, in order to reach home. I very rarely advise a 
patient's removal to his home, if that be distant, so satisfied 
am I that the fatigue of travel, whether by rail or carriage, 
tends to make what would otherwise have proved a mild case 
severe, and to cause a bad case, which might after perhaps a 
struggle have ended favourably, to terminate in death. Not 
only is other tissue-destruction than that due to the fever 
process in a great degree prevented by rest in bed, but the 
nervous system is there less liable to disturbance, any ten- 
dency to moisture of skin is favoured, the elimination of the 

x 



306 APPENDIX 

products of waste tissue is unchecked, and chances of error in 
diet diminished. The air of the room should he as pure as 
possihle ; the room in which the patient is placed he large 
enough to permit it being freely Tentilated without draughts ; 
if possible, the patient should occupy a different room at night 
from that used in the day. 

44 From the first the patient should be restricted to liquid 
diet, with farinaceous food, and bread in some form if the 
appetite requires it. It is better to vary the broths, and to 
add to them some strong essence of vegetables. Some- 
times a littled strained fruit juice is taken with advantage, 
but skins and seeds of fruits and particles of the pulp are 
frequent sources of irritation to the bowels. Grapes are 
always dangerous from the difficulty of preventing the seeds 
slipping down the throat. The value of milk as an article of 
diet in fever is generally admitted, but it requires to be given 
with caution. The indiscriminate employment of milk in 
almost unlimited quantities as diet in fever has led to serious 
troubles. Milk contains a large amount of solid animal food. 
The casein of the milk has to pass into a solid form before 
digestion can take place. Curds form in the stomach, and, 
the digestive powers being weakened in fever, these curds 
may remain unchanged in the stomach, and produce con- 
siderable disturbance of system. 

" I have seen the patient restless, sleepless or drowsy, his 
temperature raised several degrees above what it had pre- 
viously been, vomit, eject a quantity of curd, and at once 
the restlessness cease, the temperature fall, the skin become 
moist, and the patient drop into a quiet sleep. All the 
threatening symptoms vanish with the ejection of the offend- 
ing material. Or the undigested curds may accumulate in 
the bowel, inducing flatulent distension and pain in the 
abdomen, restlessness, and increased febrile disturbance. 
Under these circumstances, I have seen an enema of thin 
gruel bring away a large vesselful of offensive, sour, undi- 
gested curds. Or again, the undigested curds may them- 
selves (and this has not been an uncommon consequence of 
milk diet in my experience) irritate the bowels, and produce, 



APPENDIX. 307 

keep up, or greatly increase diarrhcea. A distinguished 
chemist once remarked to me, ' Do not forget that a pint of 
milk contains as much solid animal matter as a full-sized 
mutton chop '; and solid the casein of the milk must become 
before it can be digested ; and yet I have known a patient 
drink two quarts and even more of milk in twenty-four hours 
— i.e., solid animal food equal to four mutton-chops. Can 
anything approaching to such an amount of solid animal food 
be digested, and if it could, is such an amount of animal food 
good for a patient suffering from typhoid fever ? He is weak 
because of the presence of the fever, and not from lack of food. 

" Patients suffering from typhoid fever should be allowed an 
unlimited supply of pure water. When pure water is freely 
absorbed, it passes away by the kidneys, skin, lungs, &c, and 
is of much service as a depurating agent. If it be possible, 
even* that the poison of the fever was conveyed into the 
patient by the drinking water or the milk of the district in 
which he is ill, then these fluids should be boiled till a different 
supply is obtained. All sources of foul air from drains or 
cesspools should be sought for, and the air the patient 
breathes be freed from all possibility of impurity ; disinfectants 
should be placed in the close-stool, and the dejecta buried if 
possible. If the bowels are confined in the early stage of 
the disease a simple enema should be given. A hard stool 
retained in the bowel will produce irritation, and it may be 
catarrhal inflammation of the intestinal mucous membrane, and 
so induce troublesome diarrhoea. Small doses of mineral acid, 
well diluted, are grateful to the patient, and may perhaps be 
useful. 

" The fever is thus met by rest, quiet, fresh air, mixed liquid 
food and bland diluents, and the exclusion of fresh doses of 
poison ; the intestinal lesion by the careful exclusion from the 
diet of all hard and irritating substances, and the removal from 
the bowel of any local irritant. ♦ . . . 

" The chief causes of diarrhoea in excess of that due to the 
intestinal specific changes in typhoid fever are : — 1. Errors in 
diet — e.g., the use of solid food, — the presence of particles 
of undigested food in the bowel, the abuse of milk or of pure 

x 2 



308 APPENDIX. 

animal broths. My own experience has not satisfied me that one 
animal broth is more prone to produce diarrhoea than another. 
Excess of fluid, when there is inability to absorb the quantity 
drunk, passes through the bowel, and so simulates excessive 
secretion from the intestinal mucous membrane 

" Alcohol in fit doses improves the nerve energy, and so 
increases temporarily the muscular power of the intestinal and 
abdominal walls 

u When blood in ever so small a quantity is observed in the 
stools, the patient is to be kept in the recumbent position. He 
should not be allowed to make any effort, and on no consideration 
to sit on the close-pan, or raise himself, or be raised by others, 
to pass urine, etc. If the patient is unable to pass urine when 
in the recumbent position, the urine should be drawn off by 
catheter. All movement of the bowels should be restrained 

as far as possible and for as long as possible It 

is a point of the greatest moment to keep the bowels empty, 
and therefore nourishment should be given in the most con- 
centrated and absorbable form — e.g., essence of meat in 
tablespoonful doses frequently repeated. All nourishment 
which leaves solid residue — e.g. 9 milk — should be avoided. 
Lumps of ice should be sucked, and all essence of meat, etc., 
be iced 

"In a disease which runs a limited course like typhoid fever 
the greatest possible care should be taken to preserve the 
powers of the stomach, as the life of the patient may depend 
on his power to digest nourishment towards the end of the 
disease. .... 

" To avert death from failure of heart power, alcohol is the 
great remedy. Over defective cardiac action — due altogether 
to changes in the muscular tissue, when once established, or 
to the circulation of poisoned blood through its vessels — alcohol 
exerts comparatively little influence ; but when the weakness 
and frequency of cardiac action are due to nerve influence in 
part or altogether, then alcohol exerts a singularly beneficial 
effect on the rapidity and feebleness of the heart's action. . . . 

" I may sum up my experience in regard to the use of al- 
cohol in the treatment of typhoid fever thus : Its influence is 



APPENDIX. 309 

exerted primarily on the nervous system, and through it on 
the several organs and processes ; for example, the heart and 
the general nutritive processes — changes on which the rise 
and fall of temperature depend. In judiciously selected cases 
it lowers temperature, increases the force and diminishes the 
frequency of the heart's beats ; it calms and soothes the 
patient, diminishes the tremor, it quiets delirium, and induces 
sleep. It should never be given in the early stage of the 
disease, or with the hope of anticipating and so preventing 
the occurrence of prostration and debility, - but should be pre- 
scribed only when the severity of special symptoms, or the 
general state of prostration indicates its use. Hence a large 
number of cases of typhoid fever end favourably . without 
alcohol being prescribed from the beginning to the termination. 
It should not be prescribed when a sudden gush of blood has 
induced faintness, unless the faintness is so great as to 
threaten life immediately. Nor should it be given when, after 
the first few doses, the temperature rises, the heart's action 
becomes more frequent or more feeble, delirium increases, 
sleeplessness supervenes, or drowsiness deepens, so as to 
threaten to pass into coma. When the urine contains a con- 
siderable quantity of albumen, alcohol should not be prescribed 
unless absolutely necessary for the relief of some symptom 
immediately threatening life, and then it should be given with 
the greatest caution, and its effects on temperature, the circu- 
lation, and on the urinary and other secretions, both as to 
quantity and quality, be carefully and frequently noted. The 
quantity of alcohol prescribed should be as much only as may 
be necessary to effect the object for which it is prescribed. 
In the fourth week, to tide the patient over the concluding 
days of the disease, it may, as a rule, be given more freely than, 
in the second or the beginning of the third week of the 
disease, but it is in exceptional cases only that more than 
twelve ounces of brandy in the twenty-four hours can be 
taken without inducing some of the worst symptoms of pros- 
tration. Nearly all the good effects of alcohol, when its use 
is indicated are obtained by four, six, or eight ounces of 
brandy in twenty-four hours. Taken in excess — even when 



310 APPENDIX. 

in smaller quantities it would do the patient good— 4 1 dries the 
tongue, muddles the mind, or induces delirium or drowsiness 
approaching to coma, and diminishes the action of the secret- 
ing organs, on the health y action of which the elimination of 
the materials destroyed by the action of the fever poison de- 
pends. For the last thirty years I have made it the rale of 
my practice in the treatment of typhoid fever to abstain from 
giving alcohol if, in the case before me, I doubted the wisdom 
of giving it ; when in doubt I do not give alcohol in typhoid 
fever, and when there is a question in my mind of a larger or 
smaller dose I, as a rule, prescribe the smaller. The reverse 
of the role I laid down for myself in the treatment of Typkus 
fever. . • . . 

"Alcohol, by the influence it exerts on the nervous system, 
is of the greatest value in the treatment of typhoid fever, but 
it should only be given for the purpose of attaining a definite 
object ; its effects should be watched, and the dose so regu- 
lated as to attain the desired effect from as small a quantity 
as possible. As the treatment in reference to many symptoms 
is in the present state of our pathological knowledge tentative, 
it may have to be varied frequently both as regards continu- 
ance and dose of drugs, of stimulants and of cold. My ex- 
perience has impressed on me the conviction that that man 
will be the most successful in treating typhoid fever who 
watches its progress, not only with the most skilled and in- 
telligent, but also with the most constant care, and gives 
unceasing attention to little things, and who, when prescribing 
an active remedy, weighs with the greatest accuracy the good 
intended to be effected against the evil the prescription may 
inflict, and then — if the possible evil be death, and the probable 
good short of the saving of life— holds his hand." 



(B.) Extracts from Remarks on the Treatment op En- 
teric Fever. By John S. Bristowe, M.D., P.R.C.P., 
etc., etc. {British Med. Journal, Nov. 27th, 1880.) 

"1. Diet. — It was formerly the custom to 'starve fevers.' 
During the last thirty or forty years, however, and in no 



APPENDIX. 311 

small degree owing to the teachings of the late Dr. Graves, 
the practice of 'feeding fevers' has been very generally 
adopted ; and few, I should think, can doubt the wisdom of 
the change ; for not only are fevers characterised by rapid 
degradation of tissue, with progressive emaciation and en- 
feeblement of system, but experience has demonstrated that 
fever-patients are capable in no inconsiderable degree of 
assimilating nourishment, and that the specific symptoms of 
their diseases are seldom, if ever, aggravated by its judicious 
administration. These remarks are especially true of enteric 
fever, which is a disease of long duration, and one in which 
emaciation and asthenia not only are ' rapidly developed and 
apt to become extreme, but are exceptionally slow to be re- 
covered from. But it is a fever which, probably more than 
any other specific fever, demands care and judgment in its 
dietetic management ; for its incidence is mainly on the ali- 
mentary canal, and dietetic errors are likely, therefore, to be 
attended with immediate injurious results. I need scarcely 
remind you, that Peyer's patches and the solitary glands in 
the lower part of the small intestine are always affected in 
enteric fever, and the solitary glands in the large intestine in 
about one-third of the total number of cases ; that ulceration 
of the diseased patches commences for the most part from the 
seventh to the tenth day of the fever ; that cicatrisation 
usually begins some time during the fourth week, but may be 
delayed indefinitely and indefinitely prolonged ; and that the 
specific consequences of the intestinal lesion, against which 
we have especially to take precautions, are uncontrollable 
diarrhoea, intestinal haemorrhage, and perforation of the ileum.. 
Under these circumstances, it is clear that the food to be ad- 
ministered should be easy of digestion and assimilation, and 
that its residue should be unirritating to the diseased bowel 
along which it has to pass. Dr. Murchison observes that it 
' may consist of such articles as the following : milk, eggs, 
beef-tea, veal, or chicken-broth, to which may be added ver- 
micelli or arrowroot, meat-essences, meat-jellies, custard, 
bread and milk, sago, and tea or coffee diluted freely with 
milk.' But this, it seems to me, is to be regarded rather as 



312 APPENDIX. 

an enumeration of the articles of diet from which we may 
select under special circumstances, and in exceptional cases, 
and to which we may resort indifferently during convalescence, 
than as a list of foods to be administered indiscriminately 
during the febrile stages of the disease. Indeed, Dr. Mur- 
chison admits, what most of us know by experience, that 
beef-tea and other animal broths and essences not unfrequently 
promote diarrhoea in enteric fever ; and the suppression of the 
salivary, and probably of the pancreatic, secretion which 
attends the disease interferes importantly with the digestion 
and assimilation of starchy matters, which thus, as Dr. Cay ley 
especially maintains, become irritants to the alimentary canal. 
These facts serve to control our liberty of action in no incon- 
siderable degree, and reduce us to the necessity of feeding 
patients almost exclusively on milk and eggs. Indeed, I 
suppose that few physicians at the present day give anything 
besides milk to enteric fever patients so long as the tempera- 
ture remains febrile. That is the practice which Dr. Mur- 
chison himself advocates ; it is the practice recommended 
by Dr. Cayley ; it is the practice which has prevailed at 
St. Thomas's Hospital for many years past ; and one which, 
with few exceptions, I have carried out, as long as I can 
recollect, both in private practice and at the hospital. Very 
few patients are unable to take milk ; and in almost all 
instances in which patients protest that it disagrees with 
them in health, they yet take to it kindly here. Even when 
the stomach is irritable, as it often is early in the disease, and 
as it may continue during the greater part of its course, it 
will still generally retain milk given in small quantities and, 
if necessary, cooled with ice or diluted with soda-water or 
lime-water. It should be given, in quantities determined by 
the circumstances of the case, every one, two, or three hours ; 
and thus from one to three or four pints may be readily ad- 
ministered even in severe cases during the twenty-four hours. 
The feeding of patients during convalescence is a matter of 
considerable nicety. The presence of a clean tongue and a good 
appetite, and the need of restoring health and strength to the 
enfeebled and emaciated frame, tempt one strongly to allow 



i 

J 



APPENDIX. 313 

the patient to give full play to his lust for food. But when it 
is recollected that, during early convalescence, relapses are 
not unfrequent ; that the characteristic ulcers of the disease 
are not generally healed until convalescence is far advanced ; 
and that unhealthy processes, leading to diarrhoea, haemorrhage, 
and perforation, may be readily re-excited in them by anything 
which irritates the alimentary canal, as well as by anything 
which causes constitutional disturbance ; the need of extreme 
caution becomes apparent. It is the usual custom at our 
hospital not to give anything beyond milk until the temperature 
hoe ceased for a full week to present a febrile rise ; and then 
to commence with bread and milk, eggs, or rice-pudding ; 
only subsequently adding fish, and fowl, and butchers' meat 
to the dietary. Of course, many cases occur in which it is 
thought right not to adhere rigorously to this rule ; but it is 
curious, as most of our ' sisters ' know by experience, that the 
premature addition of solid matter to the diet, is constantly 
followed by exacerbation or temporary renewal of fever. . . . • 

"2. Alcohol. — It is impossible to discuss the subject of the 
treatment of fevers without referring to the question of the 
use of alcohol in relation to them 

" I see no reason to doubt that alcohol is a food ; at any 
rate, it contains the same elements as starch and sugar, which 
are undoubted foods ; and the experiments of Thudichum and 
Dupre* show that, when once taken into the system, it is in 
some way used up in the system, and escapes in very minute 
proportion through the emunctories. But we have, doubtless, 
many foods that are more valuable as foods than alcohol; 
and in milk, at any rate, we have one which is generally well 
suited for invalids. It is rarely necessary, therefore, to have 
recourse to alcohol as food ; and its use in fevers depends 
mainly on its primary or stimulating — its medicinal — influence. 
I have never used alcohol indiscriminately in any kind of 
fever cases ; and, indeed, ever since I have had the care of 
patients in St. Thomas's Hospital, I have been very sparing 
in my use of it 

"Many typhoid cases, and even severe cases, have re- 
covered under my care without having tasted a drop of 



314 APPENDIX. 

alcohol. Many no doubt have had it ; but the circumstances 
under which I have given it have been : the presence of 
extreme debility, indicated by a feeble heart and rapid pulse ; 
the supervention of * typhoid symptoms '; the occurrence of 
pulmonary complications ; and the debility of prolonged con- 
valescence. My friend Dr. Ord, in an interesting paper on 
enteric fever, in the eighth volume of the St. Thomas's 
Hospital Reports, based upon sixty cases (of which twenty- 
four were my own) received into the Hospital from the end 
of July, 1877, to the end of March, 1878, observes that 
' twenty-four patients received no stimulants at all ; six only 
a small quantity during convalescence : eight not any till 
after the tenth day of admission ; twenty-two received them 
within the first ten days of stay in the hospital, or while the 
fever was in activity ; but very few indeed received them till 
after the end of the first week of illness. .... The quantity 
of stimulants varied from a glass of wine or a glass of beer up 
to sixteen ounces of wine daily in one case, and eight ounces 
of brandy in another.' Of these cases eight were fatal, the 
mortality being at the rate of 13*33 per cent. The remarks 
above made, while they tend, on the one hand, to show that 
alcohol is less valuable than many persons suppose in the 
treatment of fever, tend, on the other hand, to demonstrate 
that alcohol is not injurious in fevers. Indeed, I never recol- 
lect to have seen a case in which, even under physicians who 
have used it largely, alcohol has clearly acted injuriously. 
My main reason for withholding it has not been the fear of 
doing mischief, but simply because I have not thought it 
necessary; and, not finding it necessary, I have allowed 
economical considerations to weigh with me. I am satisfied 
that there are many occasions in enteric fever when alcoholic 
stimulants are of the greatest value ; and that whoever then 
neglects to have recourse to them imperils his patient's life. . . . 
" In conclusion, gentlemen, let me state briefly the treatment 
to which I should like to be subjected myself if ever, unfortu- 
nately, I should become affected with enteric fever. I should 
like to be placed in a cool, well-ventilated room, and covered 
lightly with bedclothes ; to have* a skilful and attentive nurse 



APPENDIX. 315 

to look after me ; to be fed solely with cold milk, unless 
vomiting should demand the addition to the milk of medi- 
cine calculated to allay vomiting. If diarrhoea became 
troublesome, or ever there was much pain or tenderness in the 
caecal rings and in the bowels, I should like to be treated, 
not with laxatives, but with opium, given either by the 
mouth or by the rectum. If constipation were present, I 
should, excepting in the first week, like to have enemata 
only employed for its relief. In the event of intestinal 
haemorrhage coming on, I should like to have ice to suck or 
ice-cold fluids to drink, cold compresses to the belly, and 
cold injections into the bowels ; and, though I am sceptical 
as to their efficacy, I should still choose to have astringents, 
and more especially lead, given to me at short intervals. 
If perforation should take place, let me have large and 
repeated doses of opium. Stimulants I should prefer to be 
without early in the disease; later, however, and during 
convalescence, I should like to have them in moderation. As 
to the cold baths, I would rather not have them ; but I 
would, nevertheless, leave it to my physician to exercise 
his discretion in the matter. I would leave it also for him 
to decide, according to circumstances, whether alcohol should 
be administered to me in large quantities. I would prefer 
not to be treated at a temperance hospital." 



i 



INDEX 



PAOB 



A. 



Abbott (Van) dietaries, as ar- 
ranged by : for diabetes . 123 
— for getting fat and getting 

thin 133-4 

Dietetic extract of vegetables 169 
Acidity from fermented liquors 164 
Air, fresh, conditions for supply 

of, to apartments ... 14 
Albuminoids, increase of, in the 

diet, in B right's disease . 115 
Alcohol table, (notice) ... 8 
table, showing the analysis of 

spirituous liquors . . .166 
fasts ........ 41 

physiological action of . . 284 
"Alcohol, temperance and ab- 
stinence" (leading article 
from Medical Times and 

Gazette) 279 

its oxidationin the body asfood 7 
administration of . 
its place in diet . . 
in disease, effects . 
— acute .... 
— chronic . . . 
use in typhoid fever 
use in enteric fever 
Leading article from Lancet 
Alcoholic drinks, effects of those 
imperfectly fermented in 
increasing tendency to gout 
and rheumatism .... 
mischief arising from using 
them to quench thirst . . 41 
Alimentary articles, see Food. 
Anaemia, a frequent vestige of 
severe diseases, and names 
of diseases under which it 
proves fatal .... 230-4 
connection with rickets . .231 



146 
148 
285 
285 
287 
308 
313 
285 



164 



PAOB 

Angina pectoris, vestiges of 

fatty degeneration in . 238-9 
Apoplexy, relation of changes 

in blood vessels to . . . 237 
vestiges of, the causes of 

other diseases .... 223 
Arteries, atheromatous disease 

of 



237 
226 



Atrophy, vestiges of, the causes 
of other diseases .... 
and debility in children, cured 
by pancreatic emulsion 134-145 

B. 

Bacon, its great value in nutri- 
tion as a store of compact 
fat 88 

Baking, a process of cooking not 
adapted for weak digestions 103 

Banting's diet, (approximate 

analysis) 129 

Bantingism, good and harm 
from, as a system of diet . 130 

Bathing 37 

Baths, " cold friction," daily use 

of 37 

hot, and "hot friction " . . 37 
warm, proper temperature of 185 

Bed, Heart, Dobell's, adaptedfor 
heart disease and dropsy 186-8 

Beef, bints relative to its whole- 
someness and digestibility 84 

Beef tea 167 

—Brand's solid 168 

Bernard, experiments showing 
that morbid predispositions 
are peculiar physiological 
conditions 246 

Birds, See Poultry. 

Boiling, hints on the best modes 
of 101 



318 



INDEX. 



PASS 

Bone, experiment on, illustra- 

trve of iu digestibility . .296 

Boots, damp, danger of ... 31 

Bowels, regulation of ... 38 
obstinate constipation, and 

obstruction of . . . 188-9 
Dr. Newington's apparatus 
for breaking down scybala 
or hardened faecal matter 
eofleeted in the colon . 189-90 

Brain, influence of on mind 39 

" Brakenridge (D. J.) on thein- 
flnenceof a digestive habit," 
notice of 138 

Brand's meat jelly wad solid 
beef tea 168 

Brandy and sponge cake. . . 181 

Bread, 173 

Miss Yates on whole meal, 

(notice) 93-4 

Dr. Pavy on, (notice) ... 95 
diet and typhus fever . . 276-9 

Breakfast, the second best meal 
of the day 40 

Bristowe (Dr. J. 8.), "Be- 
marks on Treatment of 
Enteric Fever," extracts 
from 310-315 

Broiling, principles of . . . 103 

Bronchitis, vestiges of, the causes 
of other diseases . . . . 225 
death from, in rickets . . . 232 
kettle 185 

Broths, best modes of prepara- 
tion 105 

Brnnton (Dr. L.) " On the phy- 
siological action of alcohol," 
abstract of Paper . . 284-5 

C. 

Carbolic aeid .... 193-203 
modes of using for disinfec- 
tion 202 

Carbon, heat of combustion of, 
with hydrogen .... 53 

Cartilage, experiment illustra- 
ting the amount of its di- 
gestibility 297 

Cerealintea 182 

Change and rest 38 

Change, see Posture. 

Cheese and cream cheese, rela- 
tive digestibility of, &c. . 95 

Chestnuts, digestibility of, if 
baked to meal .... 172 



PAG* 

Childbirth, death from rickets in 232 
fatty degeneration, of uterus 

in 239 

Children, atrophy and marasmus 
of, characteristic signs . 134 
classes at, subject to ditto . 138 
fat and starch in the nutri- 
tion of 134-145 

Chill, severe, example of dif- 
ferent seoueuB from, in dif- 
ferent persons «... 245 

Chloride of lime 194 

modes of using for disinfec- 
tion 202 

Cholera, Dr. Tidy' a suggestions 
for prevention of . . 201-2 

Cider, analysis of 166 

Cisterns, and waste pipes, con- 
tamination of .... 22 
Climate of United Kingdom, 
rules for promoting and 
maintaining vigorous health 

in . 13-51 

Clothing and protection front 

cold 26 

— of infants 78 

Coals in the sick room . . . 186 
Cocoa, mflk, and egg as a 

breakfast 174 

Cold, protection from, by cloth- 
ing 26 

Colds, per centage of causes of 27-8 
Collins (R.), deaths in childbirth 
from nitty degeneration of 

uterus 239 

Condy's Fluid .... 193-203 
modes of using for disinfection 203 
Constipation, see Bowels. 
Consumption, pulmonary, table* 
of diets for — 
— carbo-hydrate • . . .118 

— albuminoid 119 

—fluid diet ...... 120 

pancreatic preparations in 

114, 253-269 

on the importance and dan- 
gers of rest in ... . 290 
rules for the cautious applica- 
tion of localised rest in . 294-6 
Contagion, means for prevent- 
ing 193-203 

see also Infection. 
Contagious Diseases, media by 
which communicated . .193 
means of preventing the spread 
of 195-203 



INDEX. 



319 



PAGE 

Cooking, modes of, in common 

use 100-106 

table of loss of weight per 
cent, in foods by ... 106 

Cosens (F. W.}, description of 
Spanish wines . . . 154-7 

Cotton-wool, use of as a filter 
and respirator .... 290 

Cough (winter) Lectures on, 

notice 32 

per centage of causes of fresh 

cold in 27-8 

table of its interdependence 
with other diseases . . . 227 

Czerny and Latschenberger, ex- 
periments on nutritive ene- 
mata 298 



B. 



Darby's fluid meat . . . .169 
Debility, vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases .... 226 
Degeneration, fatty, as a vestige 
of disease, its probable causes 
and effects . . . .236-243 
Delirium tremens, appearances 
after death indicating fatty 
degeneration . . . 238 

Denman (J. L.), properties of 

Greek wines .... 163-4 
Dentition retarded, by rickets . 231 

Diabetes, diet in 4-5 

rationale of a proper diet in . 116 
table of diet for . . . 122-3 
Dial, Appointment, designed by 

Dr.Dobell .... 190-2 
Diarrhoea, fatty degeneration a 

cause of death in . . . 239 
Diet. Tables of, (notice) . . 8 
tables of, for maintenance of 
health in adults in the cli- 
mate of the United King- 
dom 63-8 

normal ....*.. 4-5 
— essentials of ..... 61 
— combination of alimentary 

principles forming a .180 
—modification of, to suit the 

conditions of disease 107-8 
for the very poor .... 69 

of infants 71-83 

for decreasing corpulence . 133 

— lean persons 134 

place of alcohol in ... . 7 



PAGE 

Diet — continued. 

errors in 4 

see Food. 

of disease. 4-5 

—principles of 107 

— rules to be observed in . 113 
— removal of elements from, 
which increase function 
of diseased organs .. 111-2 
— avoidance of unnecessary 

reduction of variety in . 112 
in Bright' 8 disease . . . . 115 
in consumption, (tables) . 117-20 
in diabetes .... 4, 121-3 
in diarrhoea and sickness . .115 

in dyspepsia 4-5 

in enteric fever . . . 310-315 
in typhoid fever .... 305 
Digestibility of gelatine- yield- 
ing tissues 296 

Digestion, healthy, conditions 

necessary to 42 

Dingley, case of infantile wast- 
ing, treated with pancreatic 

emulsion 140-1 

Dinner, evils attending, when, 
taken at mid-day during 
business hours . . 44-45, 50 
Disease, germ theory of . . .301 
"Lectures on the germs and 

vestiges of' 1 selections from 207 
"Dust and disease," ab- 
stract of Prof. Tyndali's 
lecture on .... 288-90 
" On the prevention of dis- 
ease and the diminution of 
its fatality by periodical ex- 
aminations." Paper by Dr. 

Dobell 301-4 

vestiges of, mode in which - 
they become causes of fa- 
tality in other diseases 217-8 
interdependence of . 1, 218-228 
tables of, showing vestiges of 
disease as the causes of 
other diseases . . . 220-7 

diet of 4-5 

ditto, principles of. . . . 107 
effects of alcohol in . . . 285 
contagious, media by which 

communicated .... 193 
means of preventing the 
spread of .... 195-203 
Diseases of the chest, a depart- 
ment of medicine not a 
speciality ...... t 



320 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Disinfectants, use of various 194-203 

mode and proportion in which 
each should be used . 202-3 

directions of Dr. C. Mey- 
mottTidy . . . 198-202 
Disinfection, directions and prer 

cautions .... 193-203 
Dobell, " Lectures on winter 
cough," extracts from 27-32 

Letter on " Proper hours for 
meals" 41 

" On the importance of distin- 
guishing between solid and 
liquid fats' ' (from Chemical 
News) 125, 143-4 

" On some principles of diet in 
disease " (Lecture delivered 
at the Hospital for Diseases 
of the Chest) 107 

"On the MontDore Cure" 
(notice of) .... 36-37 

"On pancreatic emulsion" 
(Lancet, Sept. 10, 1864) . 142 

" On affections of the heart, 
etc., and the heartbed de- 
signed by him n . . . 186-8 

appointment dial, designed 
by 190-2 

" On loss of weight, blood-spit- 
ting and lung disease," 
extracts from . 127-8, 253-7 

" On the action of pancreatine 
upon fat, and the proper 
form in which to use it " 
(from British Medical Jour- 
nal) 257-63 

"On London noise and 
London sleep" (Letter to 
Times) 269-71 

"Bread diet and typhus 
fever" (Letter to Daily 
Telegraph) 276-9 

" On the importance and dan- 
gers of rest in pulmonary 
consumption" (from British 
Medical Journal) . . . 290-6 

"Infantile mortality (Letter 
to Times) .... 299-300 

" On the prevention of dis- 
ease and the diminution of 
its fatality by periodical 
examinations (Paper read 
at Guildhall before the As- 
sociation for Promotion of 
Social Science) . . . 301-4 

" Lectures on the germs and 



PAGE 

Dobell — continued, 

vestiges of disease," ex- 
tracts from 207 

Paper " On periodical exami- 
nations at public charities," 

(notice) 211 

* ' On the special action of pan- 
creas on fat and starch " 137,263 

Dogmas, pseudo- medical, and 

rational medicine ... 11 

Down (Langdon), case of infan- 
tile wasting treated by 
pancreatic emulsion . .141 

Drainage (House), suggestions 
and remarks on by G. E. 
Pritchett 16-26 

Draper's * * Physiology " on get- 
ting fat, (notice) . . . .131 

Druitt (B.), Description of ma- 
rasmus in children . . .134 

Dry earth system of closets . . 25 

" Dust and Disease," lecture on, 
by Prof. Tyndall ... 288 

Dyspepsia, avoidance of unne- 
cessary monotony of diet in 112 

acid, diet in 5 

how frequently caused . . 44-6 

E. 

" Education, Physical," extracts 

from Maclaren's work on . 34 
Egg, white and yolk of, &c. .171 
in milk and cocoa (pancrea- 
tised) as a breakfast . .174 
Emulsion, see Pancreatic. 
Enemata, nutritive .... 181 
nutritive, experiments of 
Czerny and Latschenberger 

on 298 

Enteric Fever, diet in . 310-315 
Etzinger (J.), Experiments on 
the digestibility of gelatine- 
yielding tissues .... 296 

Examination, periodical, impor- 
tance of, for the prevention 
of disease . . 210-216, 301-4 
Exercise ........ 33 

extracts from " Maclaren on 
Physical Education," on . 34 

for infants 79 

see Posture and Meals. 

F. 

Farinaceous articles, cooking of 167 
valuable form of ... 170 



INDEX. 



321 



PAGE 

Farinaceous articles — continued. 
digested by malt extracts . 170 
in nutrition of children . 134 
Farrants' measurements of par- 
ticles of fat in cod oil and 
beef -fat emulsions . . . 142 
Fat essential to healthy nutri- 
tion 124 

in the body, its character 

varied by food .... 126 
importance of proper food to 
supply the adipose tissue 

with 126 

on the special action of the 

pancreas on . . 137, 263-9 
see Pancreatic Emulsion. 
getting, or losing . 6, 1 27, - 1 3 1 
solid and liquid, importance 

of distinguishing between 125-7 
and starch in the nutrition of 

children 134-145 

Fats, importance of those with 
high melting points, as 
elements of food and medi- 
cine 125 

Fattening, artificial, of animals 126 
Fatty degeneration, as a vestige 
of disease . . . .236-241 
supposed causes of death in 

eases of 238-243 

Feeding of infants . . . 79-83 
Feet, wet, cause of cold, pre- 
cautions against .... 31 
Fermented liquors, amount 
which may be taken daily 
with advantage ... 8, 146 
acidity, gout and rheumatism 

from, 164-5 

Fevers, contagious, media by 
which communicated . .193 
continued, vestiges of, the 

causes of other diseases . 222 
see Rheumatic, Typhus, Ty- 
phoid. 
Fish, relative digestibility and 
nutritive value of different 

kinds 90 

shell, difficulties in their 

digestion, &c 92 

rissole 183 

fresh roe of 183 

substitute for lobster . . . 183 
Fogs and damp air as causes 

of colds -.31 

Food, heat and motion . . 6, 52 
. connection with .force ... 6 



PAGE 

Food, etc. — continued. 

heat equivalents of. . . . 63 

mode in which heat evolved 
from is disposed of . . . 64 

table of units of heat, and 
mechanical equivalents of 
different ai tides of . . . 56 

Frankland's table of com- 
parative weight and cost of 
various articles of, required 
to develop energy suffi- 
cient to raise 10 stone 
10,000 feet 67 

its precedence among means 
of preserving health. . . 6 

wholesomeness and digesti- 
bility of various articles 
of 84-106 

modes of cooking . . .101-105 

table of the composition of 
some of the principal ar- 
ticles of 66 

table of loss of weight in, by 
cooking 106 

table of proportionate quanti- 
ties of water in various . 70 

of infants and children . 71-83 

animal, loses digestibility by 
repeated cooking. . . .171 

non -nitrogenous, higher die- 
tetic value of in relation to 
force production, but in- 
feriority to nitrogenous in 
physical development . 59-61 

see Diet. 
Foot-pound, its mechanical force 53 
Foot-tons, mechanical equiva- 
lent of heat units in . . 54 
Force, in connection with food ( 6 
Fothergill (Dr. M.) on malt ex- 
tracts 170 

Frankland, Professor, table of 
weight and. cost of food re- 
quired to develop energy 
sufficient to raise 10 stone 
10,000 feet. 57 

on artificial human milk . 178-9 

Freezing mixture . . . .186 

Fruits, list, of as articles of diet 99 

Frying, objectionable process of 

cooking for weak digestion 103 

Game, relative digestibility and 
nutritive character . . .89 



322 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Gangrene, senile, in tissues al- 
ready degenerate . . .241 

Gas, objections to 15 

unfit for sick-rooms . . .186 

Gelatine-yielding tissues, on the 
digestibility of .... 296 

Germ- theory of disease, (notice) 301 

Goloshes, use of . . . . 27-31 

Goat, antecedents of, and rela- 
tions with constitutional 

disorders 212-3 

vestiges of, the causes of other 

diseases 221-2 

tendency to, increased by 
alcoholic drinks with in- 
complete fermentation . . 165 

Greger (Max), description of 
Hungarian wines . . 162-3 

Gulliver, atheromatous disease 
of arteries 237 

Gypsum, the question of sprink- 
ling grapes with. . . . 157 



H. 

Habits, regulation of ... . 9 
Ham, more nutritious than pork, 
but difficult of digestion 
from <4 curing'\ ... 88 
Hare, its digestibility the same 

as that of game .... 90 
Health more required by modern 
men at their occupations 
than strength .... 35 
rules for promoting and main- 
taining, in the climate of 
the United Kingdom . . 13 
Heart and pericardium, vestiges 
of disposes of, causes of 
other diseases .... 224 
DobelTs bed for heart dis- 
eases 186-8 

Heat, food and motion . . 6, 52 
British unit of, and mechani- 
cal equivalent .... 53 
heat equivalents of food . . 53 
evolution of, food required 

for 54 

evolved from food, mode in 
which disposed of ... 54 
Heating and ventilation ... 13 
Hehner (Otto) on condensed milk 

analyses, &c. . . . 176-8 
Holland (Sir H.) on Sympto- 



PAGB 

Holland (Sir H.) — continued. 
matic complaints (from 
" Medical Notes ") . . . 212 
House- Drainage, suggestions on 
from an architect (G. £. 
Pritchett, F.S.A.) . . 15-26 
Hybernation, supply of heat- 
giving elements in diseases 
resembling. . . . 110-111 
Indigestion common among 
those who live an in-door 

life 41 

see Dyspepsia. 
Infants, Dr. Sansom on diet of 71 -76 
Dr. West on food for . . . 77 
rules drawn up by committee 
of Obstetrical Society for 
management of . . . 77-82 

Dr. Tidy on 82-83 

Infantile Mortality (Letter 
fromDr Dobellto 7Ym**)299-300 
Infection, means of prevent- 
ing 194-203 

directions for the sick-room 

and attendants to prevent 195-7 
precautions to be used by 

medical men 198 

directions issued by Dr. 

Tidy 199-202 

see also Disinfection^ Conta- 
gious diseases. 
Influenza, fatty degeneration a 

cause of death in. . . . 239 
Inhalation, fluids for, tempera- 
tures of 185 

Interdependence of diseases 1, 207 



J. 



Jelly, port wine 181 

Jenner (Sir W.), " Lecture on 

Rickets," extracts from 230-4 
Address on Treatment of Ty- 
phoid Fever . . . 305-10 
Johnston (James L.), notices 
of wines, their fermenta- 
tion, distinctive characters, 
strength, &c 147-54 



K. 



Kidneys, cases of fatty degene- 
ration of 241-2 

Kirkes, on fibrinous obstruc- 
tion of cerebral arteries. 237-8 

Koumiss ...... 179-80 



INDEX. 



323 



L. 



PAGE 



Lactation, reasons for its superi- 
ority over every other kind 
of infant feeding 71, 79, 144 
and mixed feeding .... 80 

Lamb, relative nutritive charac- 
ter of 87 

Laryngismus stridulus, connec- 
tion with rickets . . .231 

Letheby (Cantor lectures on 
food) on comparative cost 
of food and fuel . ... 61 
table of loss of weight in 

foods by cooking . . .106 
on pancreatic emulsion 259-260 

Liebig's Extract of Meat . .168 

Lights in the sick-room . . .186 

Liquors, see Fermented, Malt, 
Spirituous. 

Liver, cases of fatty degenera- 
tion of 241-2 

Lobster, substitutes f or . . . 183 

Lung-disease, rules for the 
cautious application of lo- 
calised rest in. . . . 293-6 

Lung-splints for procuring rest 
for portions of aifectedlung 290 

M. 

Maclaren " On physical educa- 
tion," (notice ot). . . . 9 
ditto, extracts from ... 34 
Malt liquors, table of analyses of 1 66 
Malt extracts for the sick-room 169 
Dr. MilnerFothergill on 169-170 
Marasmus, characteristic signs 

of in children 134 

cured by pancreatic emul- 
sion 135-145 

Mastication of food, neoessity 

for sufficient 43 

Meals 40 

objection to solitude in taking 1 00 
proper hours for. . . 10, 41-50 
modern regulations of busi- 
ness establishments relative 
to, inconsistent with heal- 
thy digestion .... 42-6 
regulations for improving the 
times of, connected with the 
obligations of business. 46-50 
light, importance of during 

business hours .... 48 
see Breakfast , Dinner, Supper. 

Y 



PAGB 

Measles, variety in attacks, from 

the same source .... 227 
Meat, rules in loss of power of 

digesting .114 

Darby's fluid, the constituents 
of lean meat made soluble 
in water, and not coagulable 

by heat 169 

liebig's extract of • . .168 

jelly, Brand's 168 

Medical men, the duties of . 207-9 
Medicine, departments of, which 
are not specialities . . .2-3 
rational medicine and pseudo- 
medical dogmas . . . 10-11 
Milk, chemical composition of 
several kinds of (table) . . 97 
per centage of salts in. . . 97 
relative oharacter, of cow's, 

human, and asses' milk. . 97 
superiority of cow's to that 

of other animals .... 96 
use in diarrhoea . . . 136-7 
use in typhoid fever . . . 306 
and suet (pancreatised) . .174 

with spirit 176 

for infants . • . . 73,79-83 
cocoa and egg (pancreatised) 

as a breakfast .... 174 
condensed, analysis of,, by Mr. 

Otto Hehner . . . . 176-8 
artificial human. . . . 178-9 
Mind, as affected by the con- 
dition of the brain ... 39 
Mortality of infants (Letter 
from Dr. Dobell to Times) 

299-300 
Moselle Wine, valuable medici- 
nal qualities of . . 158-161 
principal growths of . . . 159 
see Wines (German). 
Motion, heat and food. . . 6, 62. 
Mutton, remarks relative to its 
wholesomeness and digesti- 
bility 84 



N. 



Newington (Dr. Samuel) his ap- 
paratu* for breaking down 
scybala or hardened raBcal 
matter collected in the 
colon 189-90 

Noise, London noise and Lon- 
don sleep . . . .269-276 

Nursing schedule .... 190-2 

9, 



324 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Nutrition, healthy, necessity 
of preserving, by diet in 

disease 108 

—of children, fat and staroh 

in 134-145 

Nutritive, special 173 

mixture 182 

enemata 181 

experiments of Czerny and 
Latschenberger on . . . 298 
Nuts, digestibility of, if beaten 
to a pulp 172 



0. 



Obstetrical Society, rules drawn 
up by committee of, for 
management of infants. 77-82 

Olein, its relations to solid and 
liquid fatty bodies . . .125 

Ormeiod on fatty degeneration 
of the heart ..... 238 

Oxygen, mean consumption of 
by adults 53-4 



P. 



Paget (Sir J.), remarks on fatty 

degeneration, &c. 235, 237, 242 
senile gangrene anjl degenera- 
tion 241 

Panada 182 

Pancreas, its special action on 

fat and starch . 137, 263-9 
Pancreatic juices, their influence 

on the digestion of starch . 136 
Pancreatic emulsion — 
fineness of particles of fat in, 
compared with those of 
milk, beef-fat, &c. . . . 142 
permanent character of . .143 
use in nutritive enemata . .181 
its value in atrophy and 
marasmus of childhood, 

&c 134-145 

in atrophy of children, his- 
tories of several cases .139-141 
best forms in which to ad- 
minister it ... . 255-7 
mode of preparing. . .257-263 
Pancreatine, its action upon 
fat, and the proper form in 
whkh to use it . . .253-269 



PAGE 

Pancreatised food . . 174-5, 258 

Pancreatised milk, cocoa and 
egg fur breakfast . . .174 

suet and milk 174 

invalid soup 175 

porridge 171 

Dr. Robert's formula for . 175-6 

Paralysis, vestiges of, the causes 
of other diseases .... 223 
causes of * . 238 

Parkes' (E. A.) experiments on 
the effects of alcohol on the 
human body 7 

Pavy (Dr.) ' ' On the dietetics of 
bread," (notice) .... 95 
extract from his Treatise on 
Food, on the relative values 
in force-production of ni- 
trogenous and non-nitro- 
genous foods .... 57-61 
extracts from ditto, on modes 
of cooking in common uselOl-6 

Periodical examinations, impor- 
tance of, for the prevention 
of disease . . 210-7, 301-4 

Peritonitis, fatty degeneration 
a cause of death in . . . 239 

" Physical education," extracts 
from Maclaren's work on 34 

Physiological states (abnor- 
mal) 244-251 

Physiological conditions not re- 
cognised as disease, and yet 

not health 249 

possibility of cure in ditto 250-1 

Pipes, drain, dangers attending 21 

Pneumonia, rickets often the 
true cause of death in . . 232 
fatality in, from other chronic 
diseases 240 

Pork, relative nutritive value, 
and danger of poUonous 
compounds in roasting, &c. 88 

Porridge 171 

Port wine, strength per cent., 

&c 152 

jelly 181 

Posture 36 

. see Exercise. 

Poultices 184 

Poulticing by steam, for apply- 
ing moist or dry heat to 
the body 184 

Poultry, game, &c, their rela- 
tive digestibility and nutri- 
tive character. .... 89 



INDEX. 



325 



PAGB 

Pritchett (G. E.), Suggestions 
and remarks oa house drain- 
age 15-26 



Q. 

Quain (Dr.), list of causes to 
which death was attribu- 
ted in 68 cases of fatty de- 
generation 242 



B. 

Babbit, difficulties attending its 
cooking and digestion . . 90 
proper mode of cooking . . 183 
Bain- water, means of preserv- 
ing in underground tanksl8-19 
Becipes, &c, special, for the 
sick-room. . . . 167-192 

Regimen 9 

and diet of children . . 71-83 
Regulation of habits .... 9 
Respiration, amount of air vitia- 
ted by, per hour .... 14 
Respirator, the only protec- 
tion from damp, fogs, &c. 31-2 
use of cotton wool advocated 

for 290 

Best and change 38 

see Sleep. 
Best for diseased organs, ob- 
tained by removing ele- 
ments from diet which in- 
crease their functions . 114 
importance and dangers of, 
in pulmonary consump- 
tion 290-6 

localised, rules for the cau- 
tious application of, in lung 

disease 294-6 

Restorative, special . . . .173 
Rheumatic fever, example of, 
probable sequel® from want 
of precautions . . . 214-6 
vestiges of causes of other 

diseases 220 

Bheumatism, vestiges of, the 
causes of other diseases 221-2 
from fermented liquors . .166 
Rickets, cause of death in . .231 
connection with anaemia . 233-4 
diseases in which it is prima- 
rily or secondarily the cause 
of death 231-3 



PAGB 

Roasting, hints on the best 
modes of 102 

Roberts, Dr. (Manchester), his 
formulas for pancreatised 

milk 175 

" on the digestive ferments," 
(notice of) 176 

Roe, fresh, of fish .... 183 

Bokitansky, cases of fatty de- 
generation of liver and kid- 
neys 241 

Both, " Prevention and Cure of 
Chronic Diseases by Move- 
ments," & " Scientific Phy- 
sical Training," (notice of) 10 

Bouth (G. H. F.), " On Infant 

Feeding,*' &c, (notice) 145 note 

Rules for diet of disease . 113-5 



S. 



Salivary juices, their influence 
on the digestion of starch . 136 

Salmon, its nutritive value and 
reasons why sometimes in- 
digestible ..... 90-1 

Salting, pickling, and smoking, 
indigestibility from . . . 105 

Sansom (Dr.), on the diet of in- 
fants 71-76 

Schroder, cotton- wool as a filter 290 

Schwann, putrefaction of meat 289 

Sherries, wine known under the 
generic name of, historical 
notice of their use in Eng- 
land, &c 154-6 

extensive fraudulent imita- 
tion of . . . . . . .153 

see also Wines (Spanish). 

Sickness, see Disease. 

Sick-room, special recipes, di- 
rections and appliances 
for 167-92 

Sleep . . S2 

importance of maintaining 
due proportion of ... 32 

after meals 33 

infants', conditions and regu- 
lation of 78-79 

London noise and London 
sleep 269-276 

Smith, Edward, extracts on 
cheese, milk, &c, from his 
woik " On Foods" . . 95-8 



326 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Smith, Edward — continued. 
— table of the proportionate 
quantities of water present 
in various solid and liquid 
foods 70 

Smoking, influence of ... 39 
as means for preparation of 
food 105 

Sonsino (Prospero), "On the 
physiological dyspepsia 
from starchy food in in- 
fancy/' and influence of 
the salivary and pancreatic 
juices on the digestion of 
btarcb, notice of . . 134-145 

Soup, invalid 174 

Soups and broths, best processes 
for preparation of . . .105 

Specialities, narrow, in medicine 2-3 

Spirits, table of analyses of . . 166 
ardent, their peculiarities . 165 

Spirituous liquors, acid and su- 
gar in 165 

see Alcohol. 

Sponge cake and brandy . .181 

Starch and starchy foods, bad 

for infants 75 

on the special action of the 

pancreas on . . 137, 263-9 
and fat in the nutrition of 
children .... 134-145 

Starchy food, physiological dys- 
pepsia for, in infants . .137 

Steam, see Poulticing. 

Steatosis of liver and kidney . 241 

Stewing, a favourable process of 
cooking for weak digestion 104 

Suckling 79 

see Lactation. 

Suet and milk 174 

Supper, unwholesomeness of a 
late substantial .... 50 



T. 



Table of interdependence of 
winter cough with other 
diseases ...... 227 

— Tables of the composition of 
articles of food .... 56 

— Table (Professor Frankland's) , 
of weight and cost of ali- 
mentary articles required 
to raise body weight of 10 
stone 10,000 feet ... 57 



PAOB 

Table — continued. 
of normal diet for adults in 
the climate of the United 

Kingdom 63-8 

of loss of weight per cent, by 

cooking 106 

of alcohol in spirituous liquors 166 
of Mr. Banting's diet . . . 129 
of diets for consumption, (car- 
bo-hydrate, albuminoid, 

and fluid) 118-20 

of diet for diabetes . . . 122 
of the vestiges and interde- 
pendence of diseases . 220-6 

Tea, afternoon 51 

cerealin 182 

Teething, retarded, caused by 

rickets 231 

Temperature, sudden changes 

of, as a cause of colds . . 28 
Tendons, experiments illustra- 
tive of their digestibility . 297 
Thin, getting fat or thin 

6, 127, 128-131 
Tidy (Dr. C. M.) on weight of 
children in relation to food 
(notice) . # . . . . 82-3 
directions for disinfection, &c. , 
issued by .... 198-202 
Tobacco, influence of ... 39 
Tongues, objections to cured 

meats not applicable to . 88 
Tyndall, " Lecture on dust and 

disease " . . . . .288-90 
Typhoid fever, vestiges of, the 
causes of other diseases . 222 

diet in 305 

Typhus fever, vestiges of, the 
causes of other diseases . 222 
bread diet and .... 276-9 



U. 



Uterus, fatty degeneration of, 
deaths in childbirth from . 239 



V. 



Valentine's meat juice • . . 168 
Veal, relative nutritive charac- 
ter of, and unwholesome- 
ness to delicate stomachs . 87 
Vegetables, list of, as articles of 
diet " • - 98-99 



INDEX. 



327 



PAGE 

Vegetables — continued, 

causes of indigestibility, and 

means of correcting . .100 
Van Abbott's extract of . .169 
Venison, its digestibility like 

tbat of game 90 

Ventilation and heating ... 13 
facta on which arrangements 

for are to be based ... 14 
conditions of, for supply of 

fresh air 14 

for infants 78 

Verkruzen (M. A.), notices of 
German wines . . . 158-62 



W. 

Walshe, fatality of pneumonia 
from pre-existent organio 

disease 240 

Washing infants ...... 78 

Water, table of proportionate 
quantities of, in various 

foods 70 

use of at meals to assist di- 
gestion 86 

preference of hot to tepid for 

friction bath 37 

see Baths. 

drinking, spoiling of by leak- 
age from drains . . . 22-3 
directions for drinking; proper 
for quenching thirst . 40-1 
Water-closets, best mode of 
trapping and ventilation of, 

&c 19-21 

Water-proof over-clothing, ne- 
cessity for 30 

Weaning 80 

West (Dr.), on food for a child 
eighteen months old . . 77 



PAGE 

Wet nurse, diet of .... 80 
Wet feet, as a cause of colds . 31 
Whey, directions for making 

different kinds of . . .171 
Wilks, remarks on sanguineous 
apoplexy, delirium tremens, 
angina pectoris, &c. , as con- 
nected with fatty degene- 
ration 237-40 

Wines, table of analyses of . .166 
properties of various, sum- 
mary of sources of infor- 
mation on 147 

in general, notices of amount 
of fermentation and dis- 
tinctive characters, strength 
?er cent., &c, by James 
j. Johnston . . . 148-154 
German, notices of by M. A. 

Verkruzen 158 

— , valuable qualities of, prin- 
cipal growths, &c. . 158-161 
Greek, properties of, by J. L. 

Denman 163-4 

Hungarian, notices of the dif- 
ferent kinds of, by Max 
Greeer ...... 162-3 

Spanish, description of, by 
F. W. Cosens . . . 154-7 
Winter Cough, Lectures on, 

extracts from . . . 27-32 
per centage of causes of fresh 
colds in ..... 27-8 

table shewing its interdepen- 
dence with othf r diseases . 227 
Woollen material, necessity for, 
next the skin in winter 26, 29 



Y. 



Yates, Miss, on bread . . . 93-4 



Wertheimer, Lea & Co., Printers Circus Place London Wall. 



J 



DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE 



OP 



WORKS 



BY 

HORACE DOBELL, M.D., 

ETC., ETC. 

CONSULTING PHYSICIAN, LATE SENIOR PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR 

DISEASES OP THE CHEST ; CONSULTING PHYSICIAN, LATE PHYSICIAN 

TO THE ROYAL ALBERT ORPHAN ASYLUM, ETC., ETC. 



" We should be at a loss to name any one in Great Britain whose writings .... 
repay earnest study more richly than those of Dr. Dobell. Whatever comes from his 
pen has that happy combination of personal clinical observation with the ' traditions 
of learning,' which Lord Vernlam laid down as the highest quality of medical teach- 
ing."— Medical and Surgical Reporter, Philadelphia. 

" Dr. Dobell, as physician to the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, and 
as haying taken great pains in the investigation of the facts touching these diseases, 
speaks of them with authority."— Lancet, 

" He has for years been a close observer in a field where his opportunities have been 
immense."— Canada Medical Record. 

" To quote the opinion of Sir Thomas Watson, 'Such a' storehouse of instruction 
has scarcely ever been seen.' "—Westminster Review. 

" The author would be considered as belonging to the class of eminently practical 
men. Every page confirms it."— Cincinnati Lancet and Clinic 

"His labours deserve the gratitude of both the profession and the public."— 
Spectator. 

" Dr. Dobell is one of those practitioners who have not only had a scientific educa- 
tion, but are endowed with a philosophical insight." — Athenceum. 

" Teem with knowledge, and overflow with an interest to which it would be diffi- 
cult to attach an overstated value. The whole profession is indebted to Dr. Dobell." 
— Australian Medical Journal. 



LONDON. 
H. K, LEWIS, MEDICAL AND SCIENTIFIC LIBRARY, 

136, GOWER STREET. 

1881. 




&vo. clotli, price 1e. 6d. t J. & A. Churchill. 

ON THE MONT DORE CURE AND THE 
PEOPEE WAY TO USE IT in the Kheumatic, 
Gouty, Scrofulous, Syphilitic, Tuberculous, Dartrous, and 
other Morbid Constitutional States; also in Asthma, Con- 
sumption, Bronchitis, Emphysema, Naso-pulmonary Catarrh, 
and other Affections of the Throat, Chest, and Mucous Mem- 
branes. 

CONTENTS. 
Chapter I. 

Responsibility accepted by the Author. — Importance of the Mont Dore 
Cure and of its being Rightly Used. — Cases must be thoroughly In- 
vestigated before Prescribing it. — Unfit Cases must be rigorously 
Rejected. — Fit Cases must be carefully Watched during Treatment. 
— Account by "An Old Resident" of the Selection of Bournemouth 
for the English Establishment. — Paper addressed to the Medical 
Profession at Bournemouth on the Nature of the Mont Dore Cure 
and the Reasons for Introducing it into this Country. — Accounts by 
Dr. Brockwell, Dr. Rabagliati, and a Writer in " Time " . 1—37 

Chapter II. 

The Principles and Rules of Treatment established by Long Ex- 
perience at Mont Dore must be followed till better are found. — 
Authors selected as Guides for the "Medical Code of Mont Dore." 
— Old and New Resources of the Place. — Table II., Bird's Eye 
View of the Baths and Waters ; Appliances, Analyses, Temperatures, 
Uses, Distribution, etc. — Diseases for which the " Cure " is suitable 
— Description of Present Establishment at Mont Dore, Auvergne. 

38-62 

Chapter III. 

Experiences and Opinions of Mont Dore Physicians. —Pheno- 
mena observed during Immersion in the Hot Baths. — State of 
Bather, On leaving the Baths, When put to Bed, During the day, 
During the Course of Treatment.— Duration of Treatment—Certain 
Mischances during the Use of the Baths and the Methods of 
Treating them. — Hot Baths. — Piscines. — Half Baths. — Foot 
Baths.— Temperate Baths. — Douches. — Vapour Baths. — Vapour 
Douches. — Inhalations. — Pulverised Water Aspirations. — Nasal Irri-. 
gationa. — Throat Irrigations. — Gargles. — Tho Internal Uee of 
the Waters : their Action on the Skin, Expectoration, Urine, 

A 2 



Alvine Evacuations, — Effects of the Auvergne Country on Hemo- 
ptysis. — Diet and Begimen at Mont Dore. — Duration of the Cure, 
etc. — Transportation of the Waters.— Mode of Administration and 
Effects when taken at Home ...... 63—118 

Chapter IV. 

Results and Conclusions from Observations of the Treatment 
of Different Diseases at Mont Dore. — Chronic Diseases of 
the Chest ; Neuroses of Respiration ; Asthma ; Tabes Dorsalis ; 
Affections of the Heart, Stomach, Intestines, Uterus; Paralysis; 
Rheumatism; Gout; Dartre; Articular Lesions; Luxations; Lym- 
phatic Swellings ; etc.— Effects of Sulphurous and other Waters 
compared with those of Mont Dore .... 119 — 137 

Chapter V. 

Review of the Mont Dore Cure. — Answer to the question, How 
can such simple means obtain such remarkable results ?— Classi- 
fication of the Diseases treated at Mont Dore, and of the Means 
by which they are Cured. — Comparison of these with the Results of 
Ordinary Medical Practice. — References to the Author's Views ex- 
pressed in various Works, at various dates, independently of the 
Mont Dore question. — Special Note regarding the Relation be- 
tween the Cutaneous Functions and those of the Liver, and the 
Influence of the Liver in various Morbid Constitutional States. — 
Interdependence of Diseases. — Germs and Vestiges of Disease.— 
Prevention of the Invasion and Fatality of Diseases. — Abnormal 
Physiological States. — Cases of Winter Cough, Catarrh, Bronchitis, 
Emphysema, Asthma, clinically arranged. — What we have to treat 
in Winter Cough. — Importance of Eradicating Bronchial Complaints. 
—Hereditary Tendency. — Diathesis. — Interdependence of Skin and 
Chest Complaints. — Mineral Waters, Baths, etc. — Causes of Colds, 
Coughs, and Short Breathing. — Counter Irritants. — Hot Fomenta- 
tions. — Poulticing by Steam. — Inhalations of Vapour, Atomised 
Fluids, Fumes. — Post-nasal Catarrh. — Hygiene.— Shutting-up and 
Non-Shutting-up Systems.— Means of Treatment for Naso- Pulmonary 
Tract. — Summer and Winter Treatment. — Important Facts regard- 
ing . Different Kinds of Consumption. — Arsenic. — Antiseptics. — 
Remarks as to detailing Treatment for Individual Cases. — Reminder 
that the Mont Dore Treatment is a definite and potent Course of 
emphatically Medical Treatment, requiring mueh Skill and Judg- 
ment in its Administration. — It does not preclude the addition of 
other Treatment if required 138—180 

Form of Prescription Paper recommended for the Mont Dore Cure, 181 



New and Enlarged Edition (the Second) \ carefully Revised and 
Annotated, with Coloured Plate. Svo. cloth. Price 10*. 6d. 

J. & A. Chtjbchill. 

ON LOSS OF WEIGHT, BLOOD-SPIT- 
TING, AND LUNG DISEA8E. To which is now 
added a New Chapter, Part VI., " On the Functions and 
Disorders of the Liter in relation to Loss of Weight, 
Blood-Spitting, and Lung Disease, and their Management 
in accordance with the Eesults of Modern Discovery." 

CONTENTS. 

PART I. — HAEMOPTYSIS AND PULMONARY CONSUMPTION. — CLINICAL RE- 
SEARCH, Etc. 

The Interest, Difficulty, and Importance of the Subject. — The proper 
Arenas for Science and for Practice. — Interdependence of Loss of 
Weight, Blood-Spitting, and Lung Disease. — Necessity for Caution 
and Consideration, Promptness and Energy. — The true Position of 
Haemoptysis in the Natural History of Consumption. — Morbid 
Anatomy subsidiary to Clinical Observation in discovering the 
Nature, Cause, and Treatment of Diseases. — Statement of Problems 
to be solved, and of proper Methods of Clinical Research in Con- 
sumption. — Constitutional Decline. — Loss of Weight. — Cough. — 
Haemoptysis.— -100 Cases of Haemoptysis, selected from a succession 
of 800 Cases. Rigid Method of Selection, Tabulation, and Analysis. 
—Abridged Summary of Table 1. — Remarks on 100 Cases. — Ar- 
rangement into Clinical Groups. — Explanations of Tabulated Facts, 
and Deductions from them. — References to 17 Subsidiary Tables. — 
Principal Heads under which Haemoptysis should be classified as a 
Symptom, and as a Cause of Disease. — Its place among other 
Causes. — Key to further Analysis of Cases in Special Groups. — 
Special Groups of Cases, with Commentaries upon them. — Tables 
2 to 8 . • . • 4 . . . . 3-64 

part ii. — hemoptysis and pulmonary consumption. — observations, 
Opinions, Doctrines, Etc. 

Researches, Opinions, and Doctrines of various Authors discussed: 
Baiimler, Charcot, Cordua, Dittrich, Austin Flint, Fox, Fuller, 
Gerhardt, Heitler, Hertz, Klein, Laennec, Lancereaux, Lebert, 
Lipmann, Mazzotti, Moxon, Niemeyer, Nothnagel, Osier, Perl, 
Powell, Rasmus8en, Rindfleiach, Rokitansky, Sanderson, Sommer- 



6 

brodt, Virchow, Waldenburg, Walshe, Weber, Williams, Wymodzoff , 
Ziemssen. — Before engaging in a battle erery wise man will con- 
aider: 1. What he baa to fight ; 2. What he means to fight for ; 
3. What he has to fight with ; 4. The best way to use the arms 
with which he has to fight.— Haemoptysis considered under these 
heads. — Special Consideration of the Initial Haemoptysis of Pul- 
monary Tnbercnlisation. — Haemoptysis as a Symptom and as a 
Cause of Disease 67-104 

PART III. — Hemoptysis and Pulmonary Consumption. — Treatment. 

" The arms with which we have to fight and how best to use them." — 
Remedies used by different Practitioners in this and other countries : 
Aperients, Atomised Fluids, Alum, Antiseptics, Acids (Gallic, Sul- 
phuric, Tannic, etc.), Canada Balsam, Copper, Climate, Cold, 
Counter Irritants, Dry Cupping, Diet, Digitalis, Emetics, Ergot 
and Ergotine, Eucalyptus Rostrata, Elastic Compression, Heat to 
Spine, Hypodermic Injections, Iron, Ipecacuanha, Kashanda, 
Leeches, Ligation of Limbs, Lead, Mineral Waters, Quinine, Rest, 
Salt, Stimulants, Syncope, Sedatives, Turpentine, Urine, Veratrum 
Viride, Venesection. — Treatment recommended by — Annelli, Bag- 
livi, Drasche, Austin Flint, Fuller, Graves, Gerhardt, Hertz, 
Hirschfeld, Laennec, Lassalas, Massari, Maasina, Muller, Oppolzer, 
Peter, Richelot, Rogers, Trousseau, Waters, Weber, Williams, 
Williamson, Ziemssen. — Treatment recommended by the Author — 
Avoid Amplification of similar remedies ; Dangers of Elastic Com- 
pression, Dangers of Freezing Chest, Dangers of Internal Use of 
Iron, Modus Operandi of Remedies and their appropriate Adaptation 
to Special Cases.—- Practical Summary . . » 107-146 

PART IV. — Loss op Weight and Pulmonary Consumption. — General 
• Discussion op the Subject. — Two Good Working Hypotheses. 

* / 

i • » 

The Maintenance of a Stationary Weight a Wonderful Evidence of the 
Perfection of Vital Existence, — Immense Influence of Loss of 
Weight on the Possible Continuance of Life. — Great Value of 
Means of Preventing or Remedying Loss of Weight. — Expectora- 
tion, Sweating, Diarrhoea, High Temperature, Defective Quantity 
or Quality of Food, Excess of Exercise over Food Supply, as causes 
of Loss of Weight. — Loss of Weight Independent of all these 
Causes Typical of the True First Stage of Consumption. — Cause 
of this Loss of Weight explained. — Why loss of Weight in Con- 
sumption is so Difficult to Restore. — Importance of Fat, and the 
Relative Value and Properties of Liquid and Solid Fats.— Essentials 
of a Diet capable of maintaining Heat, Mechanical Force and Histo- 
genesis. — Emaciation in Different Stages of Consumption explained. — 
The Relations between Loss of Weight and Tuberculisation, and the 



1 Order of Precedence in Tuberculisation of Organs explained. — The 
Explanation of Loss of Weight before Tuberculisation and the Ex- 
planation of Tuberculosis and Tuberculisation are Two Distinct 
Hypotheses. — Importance of Two Good Working Hypotheses in 
suggesting Proper Treatment.— Singular Neglect of the Subject of 
Consumption by Scientific Men, after Laennec— Its Revival in the 
Present Day.— The Author's Two Hypotheses submitted to Rigid 
Criticism in the Light of Modern Research, and the Probability 
of their Correctness established thereby. — No other Hypotheses 
attempt to explain the Typical Clinical Fact of Consumption, viz., 
Loss of Weight Antecedent to Tuberculisation. — Answer to the 
Question, What is Tubercle ? — Tubercle classified according to its 
Causes. — Critical Examination of the Views of Different Authors 
with Comments.— The Importance of the Pancreas, bo long Neglect- 
ed, now Established. — Causes of Defective Pancreatic Function 
Compared with the Causes of Consumption and Classified in Groups. 
— Categorical Answers to the Problem set forth, Part I., p. 8. — 
Tuberculemia. — Septicaemia.— Contagion.— Antiseptics , 149-211 

PART V.— Loss of Weight and Pulmonary Consumption. — - Treat- 
ment. 

Loss of Weight and Lung Disease. — Treatment of the First and Worse 
Cause of Loss of Weight, viz., a Defective Supply of Fats to the 
Blood — 1, When it is hopeless to restore the Lost Functions of the 
Stomach, Liver, Pancreas, and Intestines; 2, When this is not 
Hopeless, i.e., Essentially Curative Treatment. — Treatment of Tuber- 
culosis, of Tuberculisation, of Tuberculsemia. — The True First 
Stage of Consumption. — Initial Loss of Weight Antecedent to Tuber- 
culisation — Difficulties of Treatment and the Means of Overcoming 
them. — The Arms with which we have to Fight. — Cod liver Oil, 
Pancreatic Emulsion, Pancreatine, Peptodyn, Malt Extract, Kou- 
miss. Special Diets, Nutritive Enemata, Local and General Exer- 
cise and Rest. — Climate, How and When to Use Special Climates in 
Special Cases. — Altitude. — Special Views as to Exercise at High 
Levels. — Quinine, Arsenic, the Solfatara at Pozzuoli, La Bourboule, 
Chloride of Calcium. — Wasting of Children (Marasmus), and the Use 
of Fat and Starch. — Nascent Milk and Pancreatio Emulsion. — Intra- 
venous Injection of Milk. Principles of Diet in Disease . 215-277 

PART VI.— The Functions and Disorders op the Liver in Rela- 
tion to Loss op Weight, Blood-Spitting and Lung Disease, 
and their management in accordance with the re8ult8 of 
Modern Discovery. 

Opinions of the Ancients Confirmed by Modern Discoverers. — 
References to the Liver in other parts of this Work. — Importance of 



8 

the Liver in Lobs of Weight, Blood-spitting, and Lung Disease 
considered under Six Heads : 1, Digestion and Assimilation of Hydro- 
carbons ; 2, Of Carbohydrates ; 3, Of Albuminoids ; 4, Disintegra- 
tion of Nitrogenous Matter, and Evolution of Heat ; 6, Retrograde 
Congestion ; 6, Fatty Enlargement. — Bird's Eye View of the 
Organism : the Venous System separated from the Arterial by the 
Lungs ; the Portal System separated from the Lungs by the Liver ; 
the Lacteal and Lymphatic Systems shut off from the Liver by the 
Thoracic Duct; the Systemic Venous System shut off from the 
Liver by the Vena Cava. — Functions of the liver : Interceptor of 
Saccharine and Amylaceous Matter ; Interceptor of Oil ; Disinte- 
. grator of Nitrogenous Matter and of Blood-Discs, and Centre of 
Animal Heat; Constructor of Bile, Bernardin (Glycogen or Amy- 
loid matter) and Urea ; Facilitator of Fat Absorption by Animal 
Membranes. — Antiseptic and Aperient Properties of Bile. — Inter- 
mediate Osmotic Circulation and Absorption of Bile.— Power of the 
Liver to bear Overtax of its Functions without Disease. — Diabetes.— 
Explanation of Fatty Liver in Consumption. — Proper Treatment 
of the Functions and Disorders of the Liver by Diet, Hygiene, and 
Medicine. — The Liver a powerful Ally or dangerous Enemy in our 
War with Loss of Weight, Blood- Spitting, and Lung Disease. 

Table 1 In Tuck on Cover 

Plate Facing Title 

Abridged Summary of Table 1 12 

Key to Analysis of Cases in Special Groups 27 

Tables 2 to 18 52-64 

Tabulated Report on Pancreatic Emulsion 232 

Tables of Diet for Consumption 237-239 

CONCLUDING REMARKS. — Treatment of Lung Diseases connected 
with Blood-spitting and Loss of Weight. — "What we have to 
fight."— The Author's opinion with regard to dictating the details 
of treatment for individual Cases 297-8 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

" The long experience of our author, his painstaking and unwearied research, his 
opportunities for most extensive personal observations, and the earnestness which 
marks every page . . . demand the earnest attention of the profession ... A most 
minute and laboured study of Phthisis from a clinical standpoint."— New York 
Medical Times. 

" A very elaborate argument, supported by a series of reports of cases ... is evi- 
dently the result of careful thought."— British Medical Journal. 

" The treatment is fully discussed, and on the whole very ably."— Glasgow Medical 
Journal. 

" We should be at a loss to name any one in Great Britain whose writings on 
Diseases of the Lungs and Heart repay earnest study more richly than those of Dr. 
DobelL . . . The two chapters on treatment are the most complete of the kind that 
we could anywhere point out"— Medical and Surgical Reporter, Philadelphia. 



9 

" Dr. DdbeU's U a name familiar to all who have given even casual attention to the 
subject of Chest Diseases. He has for years been a close observer in a field where his 
opportunities have been immense, and m the present volume he gives the result. . . . 
It is what may be called * a pure clinical work.' "—Canada Medical Record. 

" The hints on treatment are practical and Judicious. Dr. Dobell takes an immense 
interest in his subject ; he is a patient and careful observer, his experience is largo, 
and he keeps himself au courant of contemporary observations."— Birmingham Medi- 
cal Review. 

" Dr. Dobeirs services to medical science and literature are well known. ... To 
him, also, the profession owes the introduction of ' Pancreatic Emulsion of Fat ' in 
the treatment of consumption. ... He started a series of ' Reports on the Progress 
of Practical and Scientific Medicine in different Parts of the world.' He was aided 
by a large staff of coadjutors in all the principal seats of medical learning through- 
out the world. . . . Most varied and interesting material- resulted. ... He subse- 
quently . . . limited his annual compilation to Diseases of the Chest. Three volumes 
of this series were published ... all full of matter of great interest and value. The 
work under notice represents the author's latest views on the pathology and thera- 
peutics of Pulmonary Consumption. ... It is highly creditable to the author's 
research and ingenuity."— Indian Medical Gazette. 

" Table 1 shows long and tedious work . . . compiled with extreme care . . The 
author would be considered as belonging to the class of eminently practical men. 
The title of the work conveys this impression, and every page confirms it. . . . He 
says, * Before engaging in a battle, every wise man will consider— 1st. What he has to 
fight ; 2nd. What ne means to fight for ; 3rd. What he has to fight with ; 4th. The 
best way to use the arms with which he has to fight.' ... He considers his subject 
under these heads."— Cincinnati Lancet and CHnic. 

" Much of the value of this book is derived from the large number of original 
observations, frequently accompanied by carefully tabulated statements. ... It 
will be found full of interest."— Canada Medical and Surgical Journal. 

" Dr. Dobell is a well-known authority on this subject, and his labours in collect- 
ing facts from all sources, as indicated in his * Annual Reports on Diseases of the 
Chest,' deserve the gratitude of both the profession and the public"— Spectator. 

" It is extremely interesting. . . . The clinical details of the cases are full of 
interest and instruction. . . . The most important portions of his previous treatises* 
are incorporated heTe."—Okugow Medical Journal. 

" The result of a vast amount of observation and study. It is written in a clear 
argumentative style."— New York Medical Journal. 

" Dr. Dobeirs treatise will long remain a monument to his industry. To quote the 
opinion of Sir Thomas Watson, 4 Such a storehouse of instruction has scarcely ever 
been seen.' "—Westminster Review. 



AFFECTIONS OF THE HEART AND IN 
ITS NEIGHBOUEHOOD. Cases, Aphorisms, and 
Commentaries. (Illustrated.) Octavo, cloth. Price 6s. 6d. 
Beprinted 1876. H. K Lewis. 

CONTENTS. 
Preliminary Remarks, 1. 

Description of a Complete Rhythmical Action of the Heart, with its 
Sounds and Pauses.— The Heart's Mode of Action. — Distension. — 
Mode of Repair. — Palpitation. — Irregularity. — Intermittency. — 

* ** On the True First Stage of Consumption : Its Nature, Diagnosis, and Treat- 
ment." " On Tuberculosis : Its Nature, Causes, and Treatment." (Second Edition.) 
The substance of these two works, which are out of print, is embodied in " Loss of 
Weight, Blood-Spitting, and Lung Disease." 

A 5 



12 

tfem theories of the production off Einphysema.— Importance of the 
expiratory theory in relation to treatment 53-80 

LscnrauiIV. 

Catarrh and Bronchitis without Emphysema. — Reasons far the absence 
of Emphysema. — Illustrative Cases. — Exceptional Cases of Winter 
Cough. — Laryngoscopy. — Post-nasal Catarrh. — Ear-Cough. — 
Diseases of the Heart— Coughs and Colds analysed.— Tables HL, 
IV., Y., VI. — Part of the mucous membrane most susceptible in 
different Cases.— Tables VII., VIII 81-121 

Lecture V. 

Short breath ; effects of summer weather and other influences. — Tables 
IX, X. — JHustratiYe Cases. — Cause of short breath in Bronchitis. — 
Influence of conditions of life upon Winter Cough, and of Bronchitis 
and Emphysema upon the spirits. — Tables XI., XII., XHL, XIV., 
XV. — Climatic Influences; their importance. — Causes of cold. — 
Table XVI.— Genealogy.— Tables XVII., XVIII., XIX., XX., 
XXI., XXEL— Conclusions as to hereditary transmission, etc. 122-144 

LsctubbVI. 

Natural Course of Neglected Winter Cough, and its Interdependence 
with other Diseases.— Table XXIII .... 145-156 

Lectube VII. 

Treatment ; objects of, discussed.— Dilated heart — Collapsed Lung. — 
Emphysema. — Dr. Berkhart's and Dr. Dobell's instruments for 
artificial expiration of residual air in Emphysema. — Thickened 
naso-pulmonary mucous membrane, with narrowing of the air- 
passages. — Catarrh of the naso-pulmonary mucous membrane. — 
Undue susceptibility of the mucous membrane. — Hereditary con- 
ditions favouring or producing such susceptibility. — Remedial 
measures. — Importance of Diathesis .... 157-180 

Lectuhe VIII. * 

Treatment continued. — Causes of Colds, Coughs, and Short Breath.— 
Sudden changes of temperature. — Fog and damp air. — Draughts of 
cold air. — Cold winds. — Getting wet. — Wet feet. — TtAm^^l 
measures. — Hygienic precautions.— Respirators. — Objections to a 
" shutting-up system." — Medicines introduced into the Stomach. — 
Medicines introduced into the air-tubes by inhalation, etc. — Special 
remedies for Asthmatic Spasm. — Counter-irritation. — Poulticing by 
Steam, and other external applications. — Means of allaying the 
severity of the Cough in Bronchitis. — Post-nasal Catarrh.— Injection 
Snuff, Lozenges, etc 181-208 

Lecture IX. 

Treatment continued. — Change of climate. — Different stages and 
causes of Naso-pulmonary Catarrh and Emphysema, and the most 



11 



OPINIONS OP THE PRESS. 

" Dr. Dobell is one of the moat hardworking members of the profession, and his 
work generally lies in the direction of practical clinics and therapeutics. . . . Cases 
are set forth as the basis of the whole book, and the points which arise out of these 
are argued out and illustrated. These aphorisms are valuable as forcible embodi- 
ments of useful hints and cautions. . . . Dr. Dobell sketches a comfortable and 
ingenious bed for cases of heart disease."— Westminster Review, July, 1872. 

" Dr. Dobell has paid particular attention to certain throat symptoms in connec- 
tion with diseases of the heart. We heartily commend the present volume as full of 
clinical significance."— Medical Press and Circular, October, 1872. 

" Dr. Dobell has called attention to a very important practical point,— the relation 
of the clubbing of the finger-ends to the shape of the nails."— Dr. tomtom's Lectures on 
Diseases of the Heart, 1870. 



ON WINTER COUGH, CATARRH, BRON- 
CHITIS, EMPHYSEMA, ASTHMA. Carefully 
Eevised and Annotated especially under the head of Treat- 
ment, a new Introduction on the Perivascular System and 
Notes on Climate. Third and Enlarged Edition, with 
Coloured Plates. Octavo cloth. Price 10s. 6d. J. & A. 
Chueohill. 

CONTENTS. 
Introduction. 

On the Perivascular System and its relation to Diseases of the Res- 
piratory Organs. 

Lecture I. 

Introductory Remarks. — Importance of Winter Cough.— Necessity for 
searching enquiry into History of Cases. — Arrangement of Cases into 
Five Clinical Groups. — Questions as to the relation between Emphy- 
sema, Bronchitis, and Winter Cough. — Mode of production of 
Emphysema discussed 1-21 

Lecture II. 

Conclusions relating to the production of Emphysema. — Evidence of 
the causes of Emphysema to he found in clinical histories.— 
Properties of mucous membranes, Catarrh, Asthma. — Illustrative 
Cases, Tables I., II. . / 22-52 

Lecture III. 

Clinical evidence of causes of Emphysema to be found in the examina- 
tion of patients. — Physical signs of narrowed air-passages. — 
Qualities of Sound. — Importance of pitch. — Alterations in Pitch of 
expiratory and inspiratory sounds ; their diagnostic value. — Illus- 
trative Cases. — Objections to the degeneration, collapse, and inspira- 



14 

enables them to be classified into Ave groups. . . . The most permanent conditions 
. . . are Bronchitis and Emphysema ; and it is important to learn in what rela- 
tion these stand to each ether and to Winter Congh. . . Each of these causes of 
Emphysema is commented on in detail . . . and illustrated by cases. Dr. Dobell 
describes the means of diagnosis between Spasmodic and Non-spasmodic narrowing of 
the air-tubes. He examines those cases . . . arising from Bronchitis . . . Post-nasal 
Catarrh . . . follicular disease of the pharynx, ulceration of the edges of the uyula, 
and Chronic Recurrent Laryngeal Catarrh . . . also some interesting information as 
to the causation of Colds and Winter Cough. Shortbreathing ... is examined ; the 
influence on Bronchitis and Emphysema of conditions of life, Climatic influences, and 
genealogy. The last two lectures are occupied with the subject of treatment."— 
BritUh Medical Journal 



PRACTITIONERS' AND STUDENTS' 
GUIDE TO PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. Demonstra- 
tions of Diseases in the Chest. Coloured Plates. A 
Treatise on the Acoustics of Auscultation and Percussion — 
Directions for Educating the Ear by Experiments on Inani- 
mate Bodies — Instructions for Practice at the Bedside— and 
Coloured Plates of thirty-five Pathological conditions. Each 
Plate accompanied by a Statement of the Physical Signs to 
be observed during Life, and by a Corollary upon its leading 
points. Price 12*. 6d. J. & A. Chtjbchill. 

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Coloured Plates, 
plate 

I. Consolidations 69 

FIGURE 

1. Isolated (miliary) interstitial tuberculous granulations. 

2. Conglomerated interstitial tuberculous granulations. 

3. Infiltrated tubercle. 

4. Apoplexy of the lung, after coagulation. 

II. Consolidations 70 

6. Healed cavities. Fibro- cellular cicatrices and chalky con* 

cretions. 
6* First stage of pneumonia. 
7 » Second stage of pneumonia i 

8. Second stage of pneumonia passing into the third. 

III. Consolidations . * » • . * » * * 71 

9. Medullary cancer. 

10. Hard cancer. 

11. Melanoid cancer. 

12. Indurated lung, the effect of pneumonia. 



15 

PLATB 

IV. Liquefactions. ....... v - 83 

13* Second stage of acute bronchitis. 

14. Chronic bronchitis. 

15. Third stage of pneumonia. 

Y. Liquefactions 84 

16. Second stage of tuberculous disease. 

17. Apoplectic coagula in the lungs, softening. 

18. Apoplexy of the lung before coagulation, with and with- 

out laceration. 

VI. Excavations 89 

19. A large empty tuberculous cavity, with reflecting walls, 

free bronchial communication, and surrounding lung 
consolidated. 

20. A similar cavity containing secretion. 

21. A very superficial cavity full of air. 

VII. Excavations 90 

22. Small tuberculous cavities beneath a stratum of normal 

lung. 

23. A large tuberculous cavity beneath a thick stratum of 

densely consolidated lung. 

24. Emphysema (vesicular). 

VIII. Excavations 91 

25. Bronchiectasis. 

26. A gangrenous cavity. 

27. A pneumonic abscess, partly emptied. 

IX. Pleurisy, etc. ......... 101 

28. Normal lung, showing the interior of the bronchial tubes. 

29. First stage of acute bronchitis. 

30. First stage of acute pleurisy. 

31. Second stage of acute pleurisy. 

32. Third stage of acute pleurisy. Compressed and displaced 

lung. 

X. Pneumothorax, etc. • 102 

33. Pneumothorax. 

34. The pathological causes and effects of Pneumothorax. 

35. Empyema with Pneumothorax. 

Woodcuts. 

FIGURE 

1. Interfering waves 16 

2. Consenting waves . • 16 

3. Reflection from curved surfaces 19 

4. Bespiratory movements in the male 55 



16 

FIGUBB 

5. Respiratory movements in the female . . . . • 55 

6. Normal position of the lungs and branchial tubes midway between 

inspiration and expiration . . • . • • • .60 

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

•* We do not hesitate to say that the student who, after the examination of a patient 
refers to this book, will have a much greater facility in understanding the rationale 
of the phenomena, and of interpreting them correctly, than one who is satisfied with 
comparing what he hears with the description of sounds given in handbooks, or to some 
typical sonnd pointed ont to him by his teacher. . . What the author gives is well 
done, and in the right direction."— British and Foreign M*L-Ckir. Rev. 

" Notwithstanding the great number of treatises which have appeared upon the 
diagnosis of diseases in the chest, the present work will form a valuable addition to 
the existing literature on the subject. . . The plates are taken from fresh specimens 
of disease, and are very well executed, the colouring of the engravings heightening 
their effect and giving them all the appearance of reality."— Medical Time* and 
Gazette. 

" We advise the student to examine well these plates, and read carefully the corol- 
laries which accompany tbem. They will probably refresh his memory of what he 
has seen in necropsies, in the same way as anatomical plates call to his mind what he 
has seen in the dissecting room. The practitioner, too, may, by their means, from 
time to time refresh his knowledge of the pathological appearances of the lungs. 
And both will be materially aided in their appreciation of the connexion between 
physical signs and structural changes.'*— British Medical Journal. 

" By comparing diseased conditions, and presenting them to the eye, with a descrip- 
tion of the physical signs, the author has done much to make that evident which no 
amount of mere verbal description could have done. . . This work cannot fail to be 
of use to the student and young practitioner."— Athenantm. 

" Dr. Dobell gives ns ten coloured plates of considerable artistic excellence, ex- 
hibiting thirty-five distinct specimens of lung and pleural disease, and, facing each 
plate, so that the eye can at once turn from the one to Jthe other, the concise state- 
ment of the physical signs connected with each specimen. What is done, is well 
done. There is every facility for learning the lesson given."— Half-yearly Abstract of 
the Medical Science. 



New and Enlarged Edition in Preparation. 

REPORT ON THE USE OF PANCREATIC 
EMULSION AND PANCREATINE, as Fibst In- 
troduced into Medical Practice by Db. Dobell in 1863. 
Issued in 1867 in reply to the following Editorial note, 
which appeared in the Lancet, November 17, 1866 : — 

"THE DIETETIC VALUE OF PANCBEATISED FATS." 

" It wonld be interesting to know to what extent the experience of those medical 
men who have nsed the pancreatic emulsion of fat accords with that which Dr. 
Dobell has now rteorddd in our columns in about two hundred cases of consumption. 
Several thousand pounds weight of this new medical agent have, we believe, been 
supplied by the makers to the order of medical men in this and other countries, and 
we think, therefore, that the time has arrived when' some perfectly impartial evi- 
dence should be added to that of the ingenious author of this treatment. The remedy 
has been placed fairly before the profession, the author reserving to himself no 
pecuniary interest or advantage whatever ; and if the utility of the remedy bears 
any proportion to the large demand which has arisen for it, we ought to know this 
clearly, and to understand and appreciate our obligations."— Lancet, 1866. 

J. & A. Chtjbchill. 

OPINIONS OF THE PBESS. 

"Pancreatic emulsion, as every one now knows, was originated by Dr. Dobell ; . • . 
within the past few days we happened to see a young lady who has been taking it 
for months, and while doing so she has been changed from a thin, nervous desponding 



17 

creature, into a plump, tolerably robust, and cheerful woman." —Dublin Quarterly 
Journal of Medical Science. 

"■ Dr. Dobell's services to medical science and literature are well known. . , To 
him also the profession owes the introduction of ' Pancreatic Emulsion of Fat' in the 
treatment of consumption." — Indian Medical Gazette, 

" The properties of the pancreatic fluid have been well described by Dr. Dobell in a 
paper recently read before the Royal Society of London ; and it would seem that 
the fluid has not onry the remarkable property of emulsifying oil and fat, and so 
rendering them capable of absorption, but it has also the power of dissolving starch 
by converting it into glucose. In this respect its action is like that of saliva, but it is 
much more energetic; for, in its fresh state, one part of the pancreas will dissolve 
eight parts of starch, and even after it has emulsified fat it will dissolve two parts of 
starch. It is, therefore, a powerful agent of digestion."— Dr. Letheby, Cantor Lecture, 
Society of Arte, 1868. 

" Of all the new remedial agents which are now being employed by the medical 
profession, the Pancreatic Emulsions, introduced by Dr. Dobell, are perhaps the most 
noteworthy. . . The satisfactory results which have already been obtained with 
them in the treatment of consumption, will induce all physicians who keep pace with 
the age to give them a fair trial. . . Another preparation, recommended by Dr. 
Dobell, is Pancreatine."— Chemist and Druggist. 

From the "Gazette Hebdomadaire de Medicine et de Chirurgie." Deuxikme 
Serte, Tome V., 1868, Paris. 

•* Dr. Dobell has continued with great energy his researches on the utility of fatty 
emulsions, obtained by the aid of the pancreatic juice, in all cases where nutrition is 
seriously impeded, and more particularly in pulmonary consumption. After a series 
of papers on the subject published in the ' Lancet,' it occurred to him to collect the 
experiences of those English medical men who had made use of his formula, and the 
replies received form the instructive document which has just been published and is 
now before us. A schedule of questions was submitted by him, so that the answers, 
whether favourable or unfavourable, may be seen at once. The questions put 
were these: — 

" 1.— In how many cases of consumption have you prescribed the Pancreatic Emul- 
sion prepared by Savory & Moore ? 

"2.— In what doses, at what intervals after food and for how long a time did you 
administer it in each case ? 

"3.— What is vour opinion of its effects upon— 1. Digestion? 2. Nutrition? 
3. Weight of patient ? - 

41 4.— Have you found that patients can take the Emulsion when they cannot take 
cod-liver oil ? 

" 5.— What is your opinion of the effects of the Emulsion in— 1. The true first stage 
of consumption (pre-tubercular) ? 2. The stage of tuberculization ? 3. The stage of 
softening ? 4. The stage of excavation ? 

" Thirty-two medical men replied to these questions, and in a manner generally 
favourable. One of them, indeed, styles this treatment » a splendid invention ;' but 
the testimony of others, though less enthusiastic, shows not less clearly that they 
have found in the ' Pancreatic Emulsion ' an efficacious means of restoring impaired 
digestion and nutrition. The author himself has made use of it in the hospitals in 
many thousand cases. He gives the Emulsion in doses of from one to four teaspoon- 
f uls, one or two hours after the principal meal, and for a continuance of at least two 
months. It is taken in either milk or water, and he sometimes adds a small quantity 
of brandy or rum. He attributes to this Emulsion the property of digesting fatty 
matters and starch, and of stimulating the stomach. It supplies at the same time 
fatty matters for combustion and for histogenesis. Lastly, it maintains the normal 
weight of the patient, or increases it if diminished. He has proved that the Emulsion 
is well taken in most cases where it has been impossible to administer cod-liver oil, 
but as far as possible he combines these two remedies. He thinks that during the 
stage of threatened disease these means will have a lasting efficacy. In 45 indi- 
viduals who had arrived at the stage of tubercular deposits, he had proved in 44 an 
amendment of general symptoms ; in 33 the physical signs were improved, 13 had 
remained stationary, and in one case they were aggravated. Out of 69 patients at 
the stage of softening, in 59 there had been a visible progress in the general health, 
and in 62 equally visible improvement in the physical signs. Lastly, out of 78 cases 
where there was a cavity in the lung, in 55 nutrition was restored, and in 35 the 
improvement was proved by percussion and by the ear. 

" Notwithstanding these results, Dr. Dobell wifely repels the idea that Pancreatic 
Emulsion is a specific for phthisis. He is entirely justified in saying that to repair 
the ravages of want of nutrition is to give every favourable opportunity to nature, 
and to prolong the life of the patients. To sum up, I hold that this remedy should 
be tried by us. To prevent consumptive patients from growing thin is the end the 
therapeutist should always have in view, and there are not too many means of effect- 
ing his object. I will conclude by noticing a case of tumour of the epigastric 
region, attributable to a disease of the pancreas, with stools charged with undigested 
fatty matters, and which has been cured under treatment by this emulsion. The 



18 

tumour remained enlarged, bnt the functions of the stomach were regulated, and the 
patient regained his flesh. " Fonssagrives." 

" Happily, to my own experience may now be added that of thousands of my pro- 
fessional brethren in different parts of the world, by whom Pancreatic Emulsion and 
Pancreatine are daily prescribed, and from whom I constantly receive testimony of its 
value. I am informed on the best authority that as much as sixty thousand pounds 
weight of 'the Emulsion (made in London) has been consumed in a single year." — On 
Loss-of Weight, etc. 2nd Ed., p. 231. 

" Pancreatic Emulsion is regarded with more or less favour by a large proportion of 
the profession."— Glasgow Medical Journal, 1880. 



DR. DOBELL'S REPORTS ON THE PRO- 
GKESS OF PEACTICAL AND SCIENTIFIC 
MEDICINE IN, DIFFEEENT PAETS OF THE WOELD. 
Contributed by numerous and distinguished Coadjutors. 
Vol. I., 1869, pp. 645. Vol. II., 1870, pp. 606. Demy octavo, 
cloth. Price 10s. 6d. each Vol. Longman, Green & Co. 

The amount of information contained in these volumes is best indicated 
by the fact that the index to vol. i. occupies 29 octavo pages, and that to 
vol. ii. 36 octavo pages. 

OPINIONS OP THE PRESS. 

" This is truly a valuable work, and Dr. Dobell will receive for it the thanks of the 
physicians of all countries." — Cincinnati Medical Reporter. 

" ' Dobell's Reports ' will take rank as the first in the English language."— St. Louis 
Medical and Surgical Reporter. 

" Much more fresh, full, and attractive than can be furnished by the writers of any 
one nation." — American Journal of Medical Sciences. 

" The whole medical world is laid under contribution." — Madras Monthly Journal of 
Medical Science. 

" Highly valuable and abundant in interest." — Australian Medical Journal. 

" Original and independent reports from all parte of the world. The idea is an 
excellent one." — The Lancet. 

" It should be in the hands of every busy practitioner of medicine."— New York 
Medical Gazette. 



DR. DOBELL'S REPORTS ON DISEASES 
OF THE CHEST. Contributed by numerous and 
distinguished Coadjutors in different parts of the World. 
Vol. I., 1875. Vol. II, 1876. Vol. III., 1877. Demy 
Octavo, cloth. Price 10$. Qd. each Vol. Smith, Elder & Co. 

The amount of information contained in these volumes is best indicated 
by the fact that the index to Vol. i. occupies 21 demy octavo pages, 
Vol. ii. 19 demy octavo pages, Vol. iii. 28 demy octavo pages. 

OPINIONS OP THE PRESS. 

"... The best annual summary which exists in any language. . . Contributions 
. . . from nearly all the civilised states of Europe. What we especially like about 



19 

Dr. Dobell's works is here strongly marked, that is— definite and clear ideas upon 
therapeutics."— Medical and Surgical Reporter, Philadelphia. 

"Can take rank: with the best abstracts or retrospects published ; . . . extracts, con- 
densed or otherwise, from the periodicals, pamphlets, and published treatises of most 
of the civilised nations of the earth."— British and Foreign Medical and Chirurgieal 
Review. 

"Teem with knowledge, and overflow with an interest to which it would be difficult 
to attach an overstated value. The whole profession is indebted to Dr. Dobell."— 
Australian Medical Journal. 

"Everything of any importance published in every country on Chest Diseases."— 
New York Medical Journal. 

u The digests are concise, yet very readable ... a valuable reference book.*— Glas- 
gow Medical Journal, 

" Dr. Dobell's Reports have acquired a place in medical literature as valuable books 
of reference, and we think the present volume (tho 3rd) excels those which have pre- 
ceded it, both in matter and arrangement."— London Medical Record. 



Seventh Edition in Preparation. 

ON DIET AND REGIMEN IN SICKNESS 
AND HEALTH, AND ON THE INTEKDEPEN- 
DENOE AND PEEVENTION OF DISEASES, AND 
THE DIMINUTION OF THEIE FATALITY. Sixth 
and Enlarged Edition. Price 6s. H. K. Lewis. 

CONTENTS. 
PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 

The Interdependence of Diseases. — Narrow Specialities and Broad 
Departments in the Practice of Medicine. — Normal Diet. — Errors 
in Diet. — The Diet of Disease. — Food, Heat, and Motion.— Getting 
Eat and Getting Thin. — Alcohol, its proper place in Diet. — Regimen. 
—The Regulation of Habits. — House-Drainage. — Importance of 
Sleep. — Proper Hours for Meals. — Disinfection. — Pseudo-Medical 
Dogmas, Allopathy, Hydropathy, Homoeopathy, Kinesipathy. — 
Rational Medicine 1 

PART I. — Chapter I. — Rules for Promoting and Maintaining 
Vigorous Health in Adults living in the Climate op the 
United Kingdom. 

Ventilation and Heating. — Gas. — House- Drainage. — Clothing and 
Protection from Cold. — Sleep. — Exercise.— Posture. — Bathing. — 
Regulation of the Bowels. — Rest and Change. — Smoking. — Meals. — 
Proper Hours for Meals.— Afternoon Tea .... 12 



20 



Chapter II. — Food, Heat, anb Motion. 

A foot-pound, a foot-ton, a British nnit of heat.— Mechanical-Equiva- 
lent of a British unit of heat. — Combustion of Carbon, .Consumption 
of Oxygen, Evolution of Heat. — Mode in which the Heat evolved 
from Food is disposed of. — Composition of tome of the principal 
articles of Food and their Heat-Equivalents and Mechanical-Equiva- 
lents. — Weight and cost of Food compared with work produced. — 
Uses of Nitrogenous and Non-Nitrogenous Foods . • . 61 

Chapter III. — Normal Dirt. 

Essentials of a Normal Diet. — Mode of constructing Diets. — Expensive 
Diets and Cheap Diets for maintaining health. — Tables and Analyses. 
— The Wholesomeness and Digestibility of various articles of Food. 
— Modes of Cooling in common use 61 

Chapter IV. — Some Principles op Diet nr Disease. 

Principles upon which to arrange the Diet of Disease. — Rules for 
carrying out these Principles. — Examples of Diets for Consumption, 
and for Diabetes. . . 89 

Chapter V.— Fat. 

Fat essential to Healthy Nutrition. — Importance of distinguishing 
between Solid and Liquid Fat. — On (retting Thin. — Bantingiem. — 
Analysis of Banting-Diet, showing its errors and advantages. — On 
Getting Fat. — Fat and Starch in the Nutrition of Children . 105 

Chapter VI. — Fermented Liquors. 

Administration of Alcohol. — Properties of various Wines — Wines in 
General. — Spanish "Wines. — German Wines. — Hungarian Wines. — 
Greek Wines. — Acid, Gout, Rheumatism. —Acid and Sugar in 
Spirituous Liquors. — Ardent Spirits and their Peculiarities. — 
Alcohol Table showing the Analysis of Spirituous liquors . 123 

Chapter VII. — Disinfection. 

Media by which the Catching Diseases are communicated. — Means ft r 
preventing Infection and Contagion. — Directions for the Sick-ioom 
and Attendants. — Precautions to be used by Doctors. — Mode of 
cleansing apartments after illness. — Proper methods of using Chloride 
of Lime, Carbolic Acid, and Condy's Fluid . . . 143 

Chapter VIII. — Special Recipes, Directions, and Appliances for 

the Sick-room. 

Farinaceous Articles. — Beef Tea. — Liebig's Extract of Meat. — Brand's 

Meat Jelly and Solid Beef Tea.— Darby's Fluid Meat.— White of 

Egg. — Whey.— Animal Foods re-cooked. —Bread. — Special Restora- 



21 

tive.— Special Nutritive.— Cocoa and Egg. — Invalid Soup. — Com- 
binations of Alimentary Principles in Normal Proportions. — Port 
Wine Jelly. — Suet and Milk. — Milk with Bum, &c. — Nutritive 
Enemata. — Nutritive Mixture. — Cerealin Tea. — Poultices and 
Poulticing by Steam. — Inhalations. —Nash's Bronchitis Kettle.— 
Warm Baths.— Lights in the Sick-room.— Nursing Schedule . 150 

PABT II.— On thb Interdependence and Prevention of Diseases 
and thb Diminution of their Fatality. 

Chapter IX. 
The Duties of Medical Men. — The Interdependence of Diseases shew- 
ing the importance of Periodical Examinations. . . . 165 

Chapter X. — Anjemia 186 

Chapter XI. — Fatty Degeneration 192 

Chapter XII. — Abnormal Physiological States . .201 

APPENDIX. 

Alcohol. — Experiments on the effects of Alcohol on the Human Body. 
— Dust and Disease. — Special Action of the Pancreas on Fat and 
Starch. — Importance and Dangers of Best in Pulmonary Consump- 
tion.— On the Digestibility of Gelatine-yielding Tissues. — Nutritive 
Enemata 209 

OPINIONS OP THB PRESS ON THB FIRST EDITION. 

"This is a very elaborate and carefully compiled book. The rules of regimen are 
Judicious ; and they are followed by a laborious series of tables, and all the per- 
centages of alimentary principles in various articles of diet are calculated quantita- 
tively and qualitatively, so that in such tables the reader sees precisely the amount 
as well as the quality of elements of growth which each dietary gives.'*— lancet. 

" In the matter of many of the prime necessaries of life— food and ventilation for 
example — all society, even the most educated, is daily deeply sinning. May 
some of these sinners read Dr. Dobell's book, become wiser, and increase their 
days by living more after the laws of hygiene and common sense."— British Medical 
Journal. 

" An exposition of the hygienic questions relative to ventilation, heating, sleep, 
exercise, posture, bathing, regulation of the bowels, rest and change, meals, etc., in 
addition to the all-important subject of diet. . . Tho rules seem to us very Judicious. 
. . . The alcohol table is most ingenious. . . We report favourably of the idea which 
onr author has broached, and of the manner in which he has brought it forward."— 
Dublin Medical Press. 

" We feel a sense of gratitude to the author of this manual for the able man- 
ner in which he has grappled with the difficulties surrounding this question. . . 
The handy character of Dr. Dobell's work is one of its great recommendations."— 
Medical Mirror, 

"The book before us is intended alike to simplify and lessen the labour of the 
physician in giving the needful instructions in diet and regimen for the daily and 
special guidance of his patient, and to supply those important hygienic rules for the 
preservation of health of which no person should be ignorant. . . In bringing out 
this very useful and concise work, Dr. Dobell has undertaken to fill up a very im- 
portant gap in scientific literature ; . . . it commends itself with great force to all 
classes ; and we recommend it most cordially in the broadest acceptation of the 
word to all readers."— Social Science Review. 



22 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ON THE SIXTH EDITION. 

" Contains a groat variety of interesting information relating not morely to food 
bnt also to many subjects of great hygienic importance. We can cordially recommend 
this little work." — Dublin Journal of Medical Science, 

"With every edition, including this last. Dr. Dobell has added new and useful 
matter, and has further condensed what was written so as still to keep his volume 
within moderate limits."— WettmintHr Review. 

"... The book cannot fail to be of interest to the general reader."— Pharmaceutical 
Journal. 



Part IT. of the above work includes much of the substance 
of the following work, which is out of print. 

LECTURES ON THE GERMS AND VES- 
TIGES OF DISEASE, AND ON THE PKEVEN- 
TION OP THE INVASION AND FATALITY OF 
DISEASE. Delivered at the Boyal Hospital for Diseases 
of the Chest. 

Reotme* of the Six Lectures. 

Correlation of Physical and Vital Forces (Lifeless Mode of Force and 
Vital Mode of Force). — Law for the Attainment of the Ultimatum. — 
Application of this Law to Man. — The Vital Mode of Force 
susceptible of Change. — Accumulators of Force and Matter. — 
Transmission of Accumulated Force to succeeding Generations. — 
Causes of Change in the Vital Mode of Force. — Results of Etiologi- 
cal Analysis. — The Vestiges of Diseases, as Causes of the Essential 
and Predisposing Antecedents, and of the Causes of Fatality in 
Disease. — Anaemia, Syphilis, Fatty Degeneration, as Causes of 
Fatality. — Abnormal Physiological States, their Relation to definite 
Diseases. — The earliest Deviations from a Normal Physiological 
State are remediable. — Competency of the Organism dependent on 
certain conditions; The Vestiges of Disease affect these Con- 
ditions. — Responsibility of Medical Men. — Medical Creed. • — 
The Competency of the Organism may be restored through the 
Instrumentality of Man. — How this Instrumentality may be ex- 
ercised. — Medical Duties. — Proposal to institute a System of 
Periodical Examination. — Mode of conducting the Examinations. — 
Effects on the Public and on the Profession, sanitary, ethical, and 
financial. — Hospitals should institute Examinations for the Poor. — 
The Need of such a System illustrated. — Working of the System in 
Hospitals and Private Practice. — Important Influence of Public 
Drinking Fountains and Medical Officers of Health on the Conditions 
of Life 142 



23 

Examples op the Manifestation op the Vital Mode op Poecb 
throughout the animal klngdom, under various conditions 
op Life, illustrative of the Law for the Attainment of 
the Ultimatum 171 



OPINIONS OP THE PRESS. 

" A book that the thoughtful student of pathology and therapeutics will ponder 
over with much satisfaction and profit. Dr. Dobell is one of those practitioners who 
have not only had a scientific education, but are endowed with a philosophical insight. 
He wanted not only to know the causes of diseases, but why they varied, and why 
they came at all ? How it is that one man in fifty is smitten with a fever, and of those 
smitten, that only one in five dies ? These are the questions that agitate the pro- 
founder student of pathology, and to which the superficial practitioner never gives a 
thought. We think Dr. Dobell's practical suggestion of a periodical examination of 
the state of health of individuals a good one." — Athenaeum. 

" The author who takes for. his subject the nature or cause of disease, ascends to the 
highest point to which induction is able to bear him. In order to arrive at this posi- 
tion, the various forms of disease must have been carefully studied and their relations 
considered. . . There is a novelty in the style of Dr. Dobell's work which imme- 
diately excites interest and commands attention. Earnest in his endeavours to eluci- 
date the truth, ho has evidently spared neither time nor trouble in the consideration 
of his most intricate subject. . . A train of argument is carried on steadily from page 
to page. . . The work abounds with evidences of deep thought*"— London Medical 
Review. 

" The author of this work is one of the few physicians in practical England who 
occupy themselves with medical philosophy. . . He points out that the life of an 
animal depends upon a continued accumulation of fresh matter and of fresh force. A 
certain part of the force which manifests itself in the processes of life is transmitted 
to the germs of a new generation and secures the multiplication of the species. . . 
The principal causes of change in the force are, the ' conditions of life,' ' coetaneous 
diseases,' and the ' vestiges of disease.' . . Such vestiges of disease become ' causes of 
fatality ' in other diseases ; . . . the fatality, in most cases, is not to be ascribed to the 
malady itself, but to the vestiges of some pre-existent disease. . . Abnormal physio- 
logical conditions manifest themselves by disturbances in the general condition of the 
health. . . As it is easiest to recover the health in this obscure state of the germina- 
tion of disease. . . the author recommends periodical examinations of the state of 
health by competent medical men. . . Undoubtedly, such examinations, and advice 
basort upon them, would be of great advantage."— Allgemdne Medicinische Central 
Zeitung, Berlin (translation). 



ON THE CLASS OF MEDICAL LITERA- 
TTJKE MOST NEEDED IN THE PKESENT 
DAY. Addressed to the Students of St. Bartholomew's 
Hospital. (By one of themselves.) Price Is. Webtheimeb 
& Co., Circus Place, Finsbury. — 1857. 

The substance of this essay was read to the " Abernethian Society of St. Bartho- 
lomew's Hospital " in 1848, while the author was a student in the Medical School. In 
1851, having been corrected and enlarged into its present form, it was published as a 
series of papers in the London Medical Gazette, 

" This is an able essay by a thoughtful and intelligent medical man." —Athenceum. 



Wertheimer, Lea and Co., Printers, Circus Place, London Wall. 



THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. 

President.-— Sir WILLIAM W. GULL, Bart., M.D., F.R.S., D.C.L., LL.D. 

Hon. Secretary .-—JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, Esq. 

Treasurer.*— W. SEDGWICK SAUNDERS, M.D. 



THE 8ERIE3 FOR z88o COMPRISES:— 

x. ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN INCLUDING THE EXAN- 
THEMATA. By Prof. HEBRA. Vol. V. Translated and Edited by Mr. WAREN 
TAY. 

2. THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY'S LEXICON OF MEDI- 

CAL TERMS. By Mr. POWER and Dr. SEDGWICK. PART HI. 

3. KOCH'S RESEARCHES ON WOUND INFECTION. 

4. LEXICON OF MEDICAL TERMS. PART IV. 

5. CHARCOT'S CLINICAL LECTURES ON DISEASES OF 

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Vol.11. 

6. ATLAS OF ILLUSTRATIONS OF PATHOLOGY. FASCICU- 

LUS III. 



THE SERIES FOR z88z WILL PROBABLY COMPRISE:— 

1. SELECTIONS FROM THE WORKS OF ABRAHAM COLLES. 

[Ready. 

2. LEXICON OF MEDICAL TERMS. PART V. [Ready. 

3. BILLROTH'S CLINICAL SURGERY. [Nearly ready. 

4. CHARCOT ON DISEASES OF OLD AGE. [Ready. 

5. ATLAS OF PATHOLOGY. FASCICULUS IV. 

6. LEXICON OF MEDICAL TERMS. PART VI. 



The following work can now be had separately for $s., or 

post free, 5*. yd. 

A HANDBOOK OF PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. Comprising: 

the Throat, Thorax, and Abdomen. By Dr. PAUL GUTTMANN. 
Translated from the Third German Edition, by ALEX. NAPIER, M.D. 



ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION ONE GUINEA— payment of which consti- 
tutes Membership. New Members are advised to begin with the year 1876. 
But those who begin with 1880 may complete their sets by special arrange- 
ment for the earlier portions of works issued for the year. New Members 
subscribing for not fewer than three previous years will be entitled to select 
One Guinea's worth from Surplus List (gratis). Report, with Rules, List of 
Surplus Volumes to be had separately, and complete List of the Society's 
Publications, may be had gratis on application to Mr. H. K. Lewis, the 
Society's Agent, to whom subscriptions should be forwarded. 



LONDON : H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET, W-C. 



i 



March t 1882. 



CATALOGUE OF WORKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET, 

LONDON, W.C. 



G. GRANVILLE BANTOCK, m.d., f.r.c.s. edin. 

Surgeon to the Samaritan Free Hospital for Women and Children. 

A PLEA FOB EARLY OVARIOTOMY. Demy 8vo, 

2S. 



FANCOURT BARNES, m.d., m.r.c.p. 

Physician to the British Lying-in Hospital: Assistant Physician to the Royal Maternity 

Charity of London, &c. 

A GERMAN-ENGLISH DICTIONARY OF WORDS AND 

TERMS USED IN MEDICINE AND ITS COGNATE SCIENCES. 
Square 121x10, Roxburgh binding, gs. 



ROBERTS BARTHOLOW, m.a., m.d., ll.d. 

Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics, in the Jefferson Medical College of 

Philadelphia, etc., etc. 

I. 

A TREATISE ON THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE, 

FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS AND PRACTITIONERS. With 
Illustrations, large 8vo, 2 is. 

II. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON MATERIA MEDICA 

AND THERAPEUTICS. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 
8vo, 16s. 

GEO. M. BEARD, a.m., m.d. 
Fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine, 

AND 

A. D. ROCKWELL, a.m., m.d. 
Fellow of the New York A cademy of Medicine. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE MEDICAL AND 

SURGICAL USES OF ELECTRICITY. Including Localized and 
General Faradization ; Localized and Central Galvanization ; Electro- 
lysis and Galvano-Cautery. Third Edition. With nearly 200 Illustra- 
tions, roy. 8yo, 28s. 



Catalcgiu of Woiks Published by II. K. Lewis. 



DR. THEODOR BILLROTH. 

Professor of Surgery in Vienna. 

GENERAL SURGICAL PATHOLOGY AND THERA- 
PEUTICS. In Fifty-one Lectures. A Text-book for Students and 
Physicians. Translated from the Fourth German edition with the 
special permission of the Author, and revised from the Eighth German 
edition, by C. E. Hackley, A.M., M.D. Copiously illustrated, 8vo, 18s. 



G. H. BRANDT, m.d. 

ROYAT (LES BAINS) IK ATTVERGNE, ITS MINERAL 
WATERS AND CLIMATE. With Preface by Dr. Burney Yeo. 
Frontispiece and Map. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 



GURDON BUCK, m.d. 

CONTRIBUTIONS TO REPARATIVE SURGERY; show- 
ing its Application to the Treatment of Deformities, produced by De- 
structive Disease or Injury ; Congenital Defects from Arrest or Excess 
of Development ; and Cicatricial Contractions from Burns. Illustrated 
by numerous Engravings, large 8vo, 9s. 



J. B. BUDGETT, l.r.c.p. edin. 

THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOLS; Or Education Phy- 
sically and Mentally Considered. Crown 8vo, 2s. 



FREEMAN J. BUMSTEAD, m.d., ll.d. 
Late Professor of Venereal Diseases at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TBEATMENT OP VENE- 
REAL DISEASES. Fourth Edition, revised, enlarged, and in great 
part re-written by the author, and by Robert W. Taylor, A.M., M.D. 
With 138 woodcuts, 8vo, 25s. 



ALFRED H. CARTER, m.d. lond. 

Member of the Royal College of Physicians ; Physician to the Queen's Hospital, 

Birmingham, &c. 

ELEMENTS OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 

Crown 8vo, 9s. 



i 



Catalogue of Works Published by H. K. Lewis. 



P. CAZEAUX. 

Adjunct Professor in the Faculty of Medicine of Paris, &c. 

A THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL TREATISE ON 

MIDWIFERY INCLUDING THE DISEASES OF PREGNANCY 
AND PARTURITION. Revised and Annotated by S. Tarnier. 
Translated from the Seventh French Edition by W. R. Bullock, M.D. 
Royal 8vo, over izoo pages, 175 Illustrations, 30s. 



JOHN COCKLE, m.a., m.d. 

Physician to the Royal Free Hospital. 

ON INTRA-THORACIC CANCER, 8vo, 4s. 6d. 



W. H. CORFIELD, m.a., m.d. oxon. 
Professor of Hygiene and Public Health in University College, London. 

DWELLING- HOUSES: their sanitary construction 

and arrangements. With 16 pages of illustrations, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 



J. THOMPSON DICKSON, m.a., m.b. cantab. 

Late Lecturer on Mental Diseases at Guy's Hospital. 

THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF MEDICINE IN 

RELATION TO MIND, the Pathology of the Nerve Centres, and the 
Jurisprudence of Insanity, being a course of Lectures delivered at Guy's 
Hospital. Illustrated by Chromo-lithographic Drawings and Physiolo- 
gical Portraits. 8vo, 14s. 



HORACE DOBELL, m.d. 

Consulting Physician to the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, &c. 

I. 

ON DIET AND REGIMEN IN SICKNESS AND 

HEALTH, and on the Interdependence and Prevention of Diseases and 
the Diminution of their Fatality. Seventh edition, 8vo. [In the Press. 

II. 

AFFECTIONS OF THE HEART AND IN ITS NEIGH- 
BOURHOOD. Cases, Aphorisms, and Commentaries. Illustrated by 
the heliotype process. 8vo, 6s 6d. 



JOHN EAGLE. 

Member of the Pharmaceutical Society. 

A NOTE-BOOK OF SOLUBILITIES. Arranged chiefly 

for the use of Prescribers and Dispensers. i2mo, 2s. 6d. 



6 Catalogue of Works Published by H. K. Lewis. 



JOHN ERIC ERICHSEN. 

Holme Professor of Clinical Surgery in University College; Senior Surgeon to University 

College Hospital, &c. 

MODEKN SURGERY; Its Progress and Tendencies. 

Being the Introductory Address delivered at University College at the 
opening of the Session 1873-74. Demy 8vo, is. 



DR. FERBER. 

MODEL DIAGRAM OF THE ORGANS IN THE 

THORAX AND UPPER PART OF THE ABDOMEN. With 
Letter-press Description. In 4to, coloured, 5s. 



AUSTIN FLINT, jr., m.d. 

Professor of Physiology and Physiological Anatomy in the Bellevue Medical College, New 
York ; attending Physician to the Bellevue Hospital, &c. 

I. 

A TEXT-BOOK OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY; De- 
signed for the Use of Practitioners and Students of Medicine. Illus- 
trated by plates, and 313 wood engravings, large 8vo, 28s. 

II. 
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN; Designed to Represent 
the Existing State of Physiological Science, as applied to the Functions 
of the Human Body. 5 vols., large 8vo, cloth. Vol. I. — The Blood ; 
Circulation ; Respiration. 18s. Vol. II. — Alimentation ; Digestion ; 
Absorption ; Lymph and Chyle. 18s. Vol. III. — Secretion ; Excretion ; 
Ductless Glands ; Nutrition ; Animal Heat ; Movements ; Voice and 
Speech. 18s. Vol. IV.— The Nervous System. 18s. Vol. V.— Special 
Senses; Generation. 18s. 



J. MILNER FOTHERGILL, m.d. 

Member of the Royal College of Physicians of London; Senior Assistant Physician to the 
West London Hospital, and to the City of London Hospital for Diseases 

of the Chest, Victoria Park, &c. 

I. 

THE HEART AND ITS DISEASES, WITH THEIR 

TREATMENT; INCLUDING THE GOUTY HEART. Second 
Edition, entirely re-written, copiously illustrated with woodcuts and 
lithographic plates. 8vo. 16s. 

II. 

INDIGESTION, BILIOUSNESS, AND GOUT IN ITS 

PROTEAN ASPECTS. 

Part I.— INDIGESTION AND BILIOUSNESS. Post 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

[Now ready. 
Part II.— GOUT IN ITS PROTEAN ASPECTS. [In Preparation. 

III. 
HEART STARVATION. (Reprinted from the Edinburgh 

Medical Journal), 8vo, is. 



Catalogue of Works Published by H. K. Lewis. 7 

ERNEST FRANCIS, p.cs. 

Demonstrator of Practical Chemistry, Charing Cross Hospital. 

PRACTICAL EXAMPLES IN QUANTITATIVE An- 
alysis, forming a Concise Guide to the Analysis of Water, &c. Illus- 
trated, fcap. 8vo, 2S. 6d. 



HENEAGE GIBBES, m.d. 

Curator of the Anatomical Museum at King's College. 

PRACTICAL HISTOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY. 

Crown 8vo, 3s, 6d. 



C. A. GORDON, m.d., c.b. 

Deputy Inspector General of Hospitals, Army Medical Department. 

REMARKS ON ARMY SURGEONS AND THEIR 

WORKS. Demy 8vo, 5s. 



SAMUEL. D. GROSS, m.d., ll.d., d.c.l., oxon. 

Professor of Surgery in the Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES, IN- 
JURIES, AND MALFORMATIONS OF THE URINARY 
BLADDER, THE PROSTATE GLAND ; AND THE URETHRA. 
Third Edition, revised and edited by S. W. GROSS, A.M., M.D., 
Surgeon to the Philadelphia Hospital, Illustrated by 170 engravings, 
8vo, z8s. 



SAMUEL W. GROSS, a.m., m.d. 

Surgeon to. and Lecturer on Clinical Surgery in, the Jefferson Medical College Hospital. 

and the Philadelphia Hospital, &c. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON TUMOURS OF THE 

MAMMARY GLAND : embracing their Histology, Pathology, Dia- 
gnosis, and Treatment. With Illustrations, 8vo, 10s. 6d. 



WILLIAM A. HAMMOND, m.d. 

Professor of Mental and Nervous Diseases in the Medical Department of the University oj 

the City of New York, &c. 

I. 

A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS 

SYSTEM. Seventh edition, with 112 Illustrations, large 8vo, 25s. 

[Note ready. 
II. 

SPIRITUALISM AND ALLIED CAUSES AND CON- 
DITIONS OF NERVOUS DERANGEMENT. With Illustrations, 
post 8vo, 88. 6d. 



8 Catalogue of Works Published by H. K. Lewis, 



ALEXANDER HARVEY, m.a., m.d. 

Emeritus Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Aberdeen; Consulting Physician 

to the Aberdeen Royal Infirmary , &c, 

FIRST LINES OF THERAPEUTICS ; as based on the 

Modes and the Processes of Healing, as occurring Spontaneously in Dis- 
ease; and on the Modes and the Processes of Dying, as resulting 
Naturally from Disease. In a series of Lectures. Post 8vo, 5s. 



ALEXANDER HARVEY, m.d. 
Emeritus Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Aberdeen, &c. 

ALEXANDER DYCE DAVIDSON, m.d. 

Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Aberdeen, 

SYLLABUS OF MATERIA MEDICA FOR THE USE 

OF TEACHERS AND STUDENTS. Based on a selection or 
definition of subjects in teaching and examining; and also on an 
estimate of the relative values of articles and preparations in the British 
Pharmacopoeia with doses affixed. Fourth Edition, i6mo, is. 6d. 



GRAILY HEWITT, m.d. 

Professor of Midwifery and Diseases of Women in University College, Obstetrical Physician 

to University College Hospital, &c. 

OUTLINED OF PICTORIAL DIAGNOSIS OF BIS- 

EASES OF WOMEN. Fol. 6s. 



HINTS TO CANDIDATES FOB COMMISSIONS IN 

THE PUBLIC MEDICAL SERVICES, WITH EXAMINATION 
QUESTIONS, VOCABULARY OF HINDUSTANI MEDICAL 
TERMS, ETC. 8vo, 2s. 



F. HOFFMANN, ph.d. 

Pharmaceutist in New York. 

MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS AS APPLIED 

TO THE EXAMINATION OF MEDICINAL CHEMICALS. A 
Guide for the Determination of their Identity and Quality, and for the 
Detection of Impurities and Adulterations. For the use of Pharmaceu- 
tists, Physicians, Druggists, and Manufacturing Chemists, and of Phar- 
maceutical and Medical Students. With Illustrations, roy. 8vo, 12s. 



Catalogue of Works Published by H. K. Lewis, 9 

E. HOLLAND, m.d., f.r.c.s. 

HEALTH IN THE NURSERY AND HOW TO PEED 

AND CLOTHE A CHILD, with Observations on Painless Parturi- 
tion. A Guide and Companion for the Young Matron and her Nurse. 
Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 2s., paper cover is. 



SIR W. JENNER, Bart., m.d. 

Physician in Ordinary to H.M. the Queen, and to HJi.H. Prince oj Wales. 

THE PRACTICAL MEDICINE OP TO-DAY : Two 

Addresses delivered before the British Medical Association, and the 
Epidemiological Society. Small 8vo, is. 6d. 



NORMAN W. KINGSLEY, m.d.s., d.d.s. 

President of the Board of Censors of the State of New York; Member of the American 

Academy of Dental Science, &c. 

A TREATISE ON ORAL DEFORMITIES AS A 

BRANCH OF MECHANICAL SURGERY. With over 350 Illustra- 
tions, 8vo, 16s. 



E. A. KIRBY, m.d., m.r.c.s. eng. 
Late Physician to the City Dispensary. 

I. 

A FORMULARY OF SELECTED REMEDIES WITH 

THERAPEUTIC ANNOTATIONS, and a Copious Index of Diseases 
and Remedies, Diet Tables, etc. A Handbook for Prescribers. Fifth 
Edition, p. 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

ON THE VALUE OF PHOSPHORUS AS A 

REMEDY FOR LOSS OF NERVE POWER. Fifth Edition, 8vo, 
2S. 6d. 



J. WICKHAM LEGG, f.r.c.p. 

Assistant Physician to Saint Bartholomew's Hospital, and Lecturer on Pathological 

Anatomy in the Medical School. 

I. 

ON THE BILE, JAUNDICE, AND BILIOUS DISEASES. 

With Illustrations in chromo-lithography, 719 pages, roy. 8vo, 25s. 

11. 
A GUIDE TO THE EXAMINATION OP THE URINE ; 

intended chiefly for Clincal Clerks and Students. Fifth Edition, revised 
and enlarged, with additional Illustrations, fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

III. 
A TREATISE ON HEMOPHILIA, SOMETIMES 

CALLED THE HEREDITARY HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. 
Fcap. 4to, 7s. 6d. 



10 Catalogue of Works Published by K. H. Lewis. 



i 



DR. GEORGE LEWIN. 

Professor at the Fr. With. University, and Surgeon-in-Chief of the Syphilitic Wards and 

Skin Disease Wards of the Charitl Hospital, Berlin, 

THE TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS WITH SUBCUTA- 
NEOUS SUBLIMATE INJECTIONS. Translated by Dr. Card 
Prcegle, and Dr. E. H. Gale, late Surgeon United States Army. 
Small 8vo, 7s. 



J. S. LOMBARD, m.d. 
Formerly Assistant Professor of Physiology in Harvard College. 

I. 

EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES ON THE REGIONAL 

TEMPERATURE OF THE HEAD, under Conditions of Rest, In- 
tellectual Activity and Emotion. With Illustrations, 8vo, 8s. 

II. 

ON THE NORMAL TEMPERATURE OF THE HEAD. 

8vo, 5s. 



WILLIAM THOMPSON LUSK, a.m., m.d. 
Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women in the Bellevue Hospital Medical College, &c. 

THE SCIENCE AND ART OF MIDWIFERY. With 

numerous. Illustrations, 8vo, 18s. 



DR. V. MAGNAN. 
Physician to St. Anne Asylum, Paris; Laureate of the Institute. 

ON ALCOHOLISM, the Various Forms of Alcoholic 

Delirium and their Treatment. Translated by W. S. Greenfield, 
M.D., M.R.C.P. 8vo, 7s. 6d. 



PROFESSOR MARTIN. 



MARTIN'S ATLAS OF OBSTETRICS AND GYNECO- 
LOGY. Edited by A. Martin, Docent in the University of Berlin. 
Translated and edited with additions by Fancourt Barnes, M.D., 
M.R.C.P., Physician to the British Lying-in Hospital ; Assistant Phy- 
sician to the Royal Maternity Charity of London, &c. Medium 4to, 
Morocco half bound, 31s. 6d. net. 



J. F. MEIGS, m.d. 
Consulting Physician to the Children's Hospital, Philadelphia. 

W. PEPPER, m.d. 
Lecturer on Clinical Medicine in the University of Pennsylvania. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF 

CHILDREN. Seventh Edition, revised and enlarged, roy. 8vo. 

[Nearly Ready, 



J 



Catalogue of Works Published by H. E. Lewis. 11 

DR. MORITZ MEYER. 

Royal Counsellor of Health, &c. 

ELBCTEICITY IN ITS RELATION TO PRACTICAL 

MEDICINE. Translated from the Third German Edition, with notes 
and additions by William A. Hammond, M.D. With Illustrations, 
large 8vo, 18s. 



Wm. JULIUS MICKLE, m.d., m.r.c.p. lond. 

Member of the Medico-Psychological Association of Great Britain and Ireland ; Member of 
the Clinical Society, London ; Medical Superintendent, Grove Hall Asylum, London, 

GENERAL PARALYSIS OF THE INSANE. 8vo, ios. 



E. A. MORSHEAD, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

Assistant to the Professor of Medicine in University College, London. 

TABLES OF THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF 

DRUGS. Fcap. 8vo, is. 



A. STANFORD MORTON, m.b., f.r.c.s. ed. 

Senior Assistant Surgeon, Royal South London Ophthalmic Hospital. 

REFRACTION OF THE EYE : Its Diagnosis, and the 

Correction of its Errors, with Chapter on Keratoscopy. Small 8vo, 
25. 6d, 



WILLIAM MURRELL, m.d., m.r.c.p., m.r.c.s. 
Lecturer on Materia Medica and Therapeutics at Westminster Hospital; Senior Assistant 

Physician, Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. 

I. 

WHAT TO DO IN CASES OF POISONING. 

Med. 641110, is 6d. 

11. 

NITRO-GLYCERINE AS A REMEDY FOR ANGINA 

PECTORIS. Crown 8vo. [Just ready. 



"WILLIAM NEWMAN, m.d. lond., f.r.c.s. 

Surgeon to the Stamford Infirmary. 

SURGICAL CASES: Mainly from the Wards of the 

Stamford, Rutland, and General Infirmary, 8vo, paper boards, 4s. 6d. 



DR. FELIX von NIEMEYER. 

Late Professor of Pathology and Therapeutics : Director of the Medical Clinic of the 

University of Tubingen. 

A TEXT-BOOK OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE, WITH 

PARTICULAR REFERENCE TO PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHO- 
LOGICAL ANATOMY. Translated from the Eighth German Edition, 
by special permission of the Author, by George H. Humphrey, M.D., 
and Charles E. Hackley, M.D., Revised Edition, a vols., large 8vo, 36s. 



J 



12 Catalogue of Works Published by H, K. Lewis. 

C. F. OLDHAM, m.r.c.s., l.r.c.p. 

Surgeon H.M. Indian Forces ; late in Medical charge of the Dalhousie Sanitarium. 

WHAT IS MALARIA P and why is it most intense in 

hot climates ? An explanation of the Nature and Cause of the so- 
called Marsh Poison, with the Principles to he observed for the Preser- 
vation of Health in Tropical Climates and Malarious Districts. Demy 
8vo, 7s. 6d. 



G. OLIVER, m.d., m.r.c.p. 



THE HARROGATE WATERS : Data Chemical and Therapeu- 
tical, with notes on the Climate of Harrogate. Addressed to the 
Medical Profession. Crown 8vo, with Map of the Wells, 35. 6d. 



JOHN S. PARRY, m.d. 

Obstetrician to the Philadelphia Hospital, Vice-President of the Obstetrical and Pathologi- 
cal Societies of Philadelphia, &c. 

EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY ; Its Causes, Species, 
Pathological Anatomy, Clinical History, Diagnosis, Prognosis and 
Treatment. 8vo, 8s. 



E. RANDOLPH PEASLEE, m.d., ll.d. 

Late Professor of Gynaecology in the Medical Department of Dartmouth College ; President 

of the New York Academy of Medicine, &c, &c. 

OVARIAN TUMOURS : Their Pathology, Diagnosis, and 

Treatment, especially by Ovariotomy. Illustrations, roy. 8vo, i6s. 



R. DOUGLAS POWELL, m.d., f.r.c.p. lond. 

Physician to the Hospital for Consumption and Diseases of the Chest at Brompton, 
Assistant Physician to the Middlesex Hospital. 

ON CONSUMPTION AND ON CERTAIN DISEASES 

OF THE LUNGS AND PLEURA. Being a Second Edition 
revised and extended of " The Varieties of Pulmonary Consumption." 
Illustrated by woodcuts and a coloured plate, 8vo, gs. 



AMBROSE L. RANNEY, a.m., m.d. 
Adjunct Professor of Anatomy in the University of New York, etc. 

THE APPLIED ANATOMY OP THE NERVOUS SYS- 
TEM, being a study of this portion of the Human Body from a stand- 
point of its general interest and practical utility, designed for use as 
a Text-book and a Work of Reference. With 179 Illustrations, 8vo, 
20s. [Now ready. 



Catalogue of Woiks Published by H. K* Lewis. 13 



RALPH RICHARDSON, m.a., m.d. 

Fellow of the College of Physicians, Edinburgh. 

ON THE NATURE OP LIFE : An Introductory Chap- 
ter to Pathology. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Fcap. 4to 
ios. 6d. 

W. RICHARDSON, m.a., m.d., m.r.c.p. 
REMARKS ON DIABETES, ESPECIALLY IN REFER- 
ENCE TO TREATMENT. Demy 8vo, 4s. 6d. 



SYDNEY RINGER, m.d. 

Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine in University College; Physician to, 
and Professor of Clinical Medicine in, University College Hospital. 

I. 

A HANDBOOK OF THERAPEUTICS: Ninth Edition, 

8vo. {.J* 5 * ready. 

II. 

ON THE TEMPERATURE OF THE BODY AS 

A MEANS OF DIAGNOSIS AND PROGNOSIS IN PHTHISIS 
Second Edition, small 8vo, 2s. 6d. 



FREDERICK T. ROBERTS, m.d., b.sc, f.r.c.p. 

Professor of Therapeutics in University College ; Physician to University College Hospital ; 
Physician to Brompton Consumption Hospital ; Examiner in Medicine at the 

Royal College of Surgeons, &c. 

A HANDBOOK OF THE THEORY AND PRACTICE 

OF MEDICINE. Fourth Edition, with Illustrations, 2 vols., 8vo, 22s. 



D. B. St. JOHN ROOSA, m.a., m.d. 

Professor of Diseases of the Eye and Ear in the University of the City of New York ; Surgeon 
to the Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital ; Consulting Surgeon to the Brooklyn Eye 

and Ear Hospital, &c, &c. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF 

THE EAR, including the Anatomy of the Organ. Fourth Edition, 
Illustrated by wood engravings and chromo-lithographs, large 8vo, 22s. 



J, BURDON SANDERSON, m.d., ll.d., f.r.s. 
Jodrell Professor of Physiology in University College, London. 

1. 

SYLLABUS OF A COURSE OF LECTURES ON PHY- 
SIOLOGY. Second Edition, 8vo, 4s. 

11. 
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE COURSE OF PRACTICAL 

EXERCISES IN PHYSIOLOGY. With the co-operation of F. J. M. 
Page, B.Sc, F.C.S. ; W. North, B.A., F.C.S., and Aug. Waller, M.D. 
Demy 8vo, 3s. 6d. [Jus* published. 



ALDER SMITH, m.b. lond., f.r.c.s. 

Resident Medical Officer, Christ's Hospital, London. 

RINGWORM : Its Diagnosis and Treatment. 

Second Edition, rewritten and enlarged. With Illustrations, fcap. 8vo. 

[Just ready. 



14 Catalogue of Works Published by H. K. Lewis. 

i 

J. LEWIS SMITH, m.d. 

Physician to the New York Infants' Hospital; Clinical Lecturer on Diseases of Children 
x in Bellevue Hospital Medical College. 

A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF INFANCY 

AND CHILDHOOD. Fifth Edition, with Illustrations, large 8vo, 21s. 

[Now ready. 



JAMES STARTIN, m.b., m.r.c.s. 
Surgeon and Joint Lecturer to St. John's Hospital for Diseases of the Skin. 

LECTURES ON THE PARASITIC DISEASES OF 

THE SKIN. VEGETOID AND ANIMAL. With Illustrations, 
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 



LEWIS A. STIMSON, b.a., m.d. 

Surgeon to the Presbyterian Hospital ; Professor of Pathological Anatomy in the Medical 

Faculty of the University of the City of New York. 

A MANUAL OF OPERATIVE SURGERY. With three 

hundred and thirty-two Illustrations. Post 8vo, 10s. 6d. 



HUGH OWEN THOMAS, m.rx.s. 

I. 

DISEASES OF THE HIP, KNEE, AND ANKLE 

JOINTS, with their Deformities, treated -by a new and efficient method. 
With an Introduction by Rushton Parker, F.R.C.S., Lecturer on Sur- 
gery at the School of Medicine, Liverpool. Third Edition, 8v0, 25s. 

II. 

THE PAST AND PRESENT TREATMENT OF IN- 
TESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS, REVIEWED, with an Improved 
Treatment Indicated. Second Edition, 8vo, 10s. 6d. 



J. C. THOROWGOOD, m.d. 

Assistant Physician to the City of London Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. 

THE CLIMATIC TREATMENT OF CONSUMPTION 

AND CHRONIC LUNG DISEASES. Third Edition, post 8vo, 3s 6d. 



Catalogue of Works Published by H. K. Lewis. 15 



J. ASHBURTON THOMPSON, m.r.c.s. 

Late Surgeon at King's Cross to the Great Northern Railway Company* 

FREE PHOSPHORUS IN MEDICINE WITH SPE- 
CIAL REFERENCE TO ITS USE IN NEURALGIA. A contribution 
to Materia Medica and Therapeutics. An account of the History, Phar- 
maceutical Preparations, Dose, Internal Administration, and Therapeu- 
tic uses of Phosphorus ; with a Complete Bibliography of this subject, 
referring to nearly 200 works upon it, Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. 



LAURENCE TURNBULL, m.d., ph.o. 

Aural Surgeon to Jefferson Medical College Hospital, &c., &c. 

AKTIFICIAL ANAESTHESIA : A Manual of Anesthetic 
Agents, and their Employment in the Treatment of Disease. Second 
Edition, with Illustrations, crown 8vo, 6s. 



W. H. VAN BUREN, m.d., ll.d. 

Professor of Surgery in the BeUevue Hospital Medical College. 

DISEASES OF THE RECTUM : And the Surgery of 

the Lower Bowel. Second Edition, with Illustrations, 8vo, 14s. 

[Just published. 



RUDOLPH VIRCHOW, m.d. 
Professor in the University, and Member of the Academy of Sciences of Berlin, &c. t &c. 

INFECTION - DISEASES IN THE ARMY, Chiefly 

Wound Fever, Typhoid, Dysentery, and Diphtheria. Translated from 
the German by John James, M.B., F.R.C.S. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. 



ALFRED VOGEL, m.d. 

Professor of Clinical Medicine in the University ofDorpat, Russia, 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF 

CHILDREN. Translated and Edited by H. Raphael, M.D. From 
the Fourth German Edition, illustrated by six lithographic plates, part 
coloured, large 8vo, 18s. 



A. DE WATTEVILLE, m.a., b.sc, m.r.c.s. 

Assistant Physician to the Hospital for Epilepsy and Paralysis, late Electro-Therapeutical 

Assistant to University College Hospital. 

A PRACTICAL INTRODUCTION TO MEDICAL 

ELECTRICITY. Second Edition. [In Preparation. 






16 Catalogue of Works Published by H. K.*Xeun9. 



'- *' J .'. » 



-, W. SPENCER WATSON, f.r.c.s. eng., b.m. loud. 

Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital; Surgeon to the Royal South London Ophthalmic 

Hospital. 

I. *» 

EYEBALL-TENSION : Its JBflfects on the Sight and its 
Treatment. With woodcuts, p. 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

-•■II. 

DISEASES OF THE NOSB AND ITS ACCESSORY 

CAVITIES. Profusely Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 18s. 

III. 
ON ABSCESS AND TUMOURS OF THE ORBIT. Post 

8vo, 23. 6d. 



DR. F. WINCKEL. 

Formerly Professor and Director of the Gynecological Clinic at the University of Rostock. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF CHILD- 
BED : A Treatise for Physicians and Students. Translated from the 
Second German edition, with many additional notes by the Author, 
by J. R. Chadwick, M.D., 8vo, 14s. 



EDWARD WOAKES, m.d. lond. 

Surgeon to the Ear Department of the Hospital for Diseases of the Throat and Chest; and 

Surgeon to the Hospital. 

ON DEAFNESS, GIDDINESS AND NOISES IN THE 

HEAD. Second Edition, revised and enlarged, with additional Illustra- 
tion?, crown 8vo, 7s. 

E. T. WILSON, b.m. oxon., f.rx.p. lond. 

Physician to the Cheltenham General Hospital and Dispensary. 

DISINFECTANTS AND HOW TO USE THEM. In 

Packets of one doz. price is. 



Clinical Charts For Temperature Observations, etc. 

Arranged by W. Rigden, M.R.C.S. Price 7s. per zoo, or is. per 

dozen. 

Each Chart is arranged for four weeks, and is ruled at the back for making notes of 
cases ; they are convenient in size, and are suitable both for hospital and private practice. 



%* Mr. Lewis has transactions with the leading publishing firms in 
America for the sale of his publications in that country. Arrangements 
are made in the interests of Authors either for sending a number of copies 
of their works to the United States, or having them reprinted there, as may 
be most advantageous. 

Mr. Lewis's publications can be procured of any bookseller in any part of 
the world. 

List of works issued for the New Sydenham Society on application. 



London: Printed by H. K. Lewis, 136 Gower Street, W.C. 



1 



-? 



