/ 




TO K[EP HOUSE. 



CONTAINING 

THE GRANDEST COLLECTION 

OP 

Household Recipes 

EVER PUBLISHED, AND ABOUNDING IN USEFUL 

mrORMATION FOE EVERYBODY. 



THIS LITTLE BOOK WILL TEACH YOU 

How U) Keep House, Preserve Your Furniture, Make 
Usefiil Articles, Mend Your Crockei7, Make 
Candy, Wine, Beer, Cologne, Eradi- 
cate Freckles and Pimples, 



TEAOH YOU TO DO ALMOST EVERYTHING 






New York: 
FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 

34 ANp 36 North Moope Street, 



\> 



x^A 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1882, by 

FRANK TOUSEY, 

in the OflQce of the Librarian of Congress at Washington, D. C. 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 



SYSTEM. 

Every young housekeeper who sits down and seriously 
studies out the subject will And herself a different being if she 
manages her affairs with system, or if she lets them manage 
her without it. It is true that before she is married, all her 
study on the subject will be theoretical, and possibly somewhat 
impractical, and something like the house one builds and is 
enchanted with till coming to live in it. For there are things 
that only experience can teach, and in matters where the expe- 
rience of nobody else can be of any material service. If her 
mother was a woman of system, the young housekeeper already 
has much of what she wants bred in her bone, as one may say. 
But, if her mother was an invalid, or was shiftless and thrift- 
less, was overwhelmed with troubles and babies, then the 
daughter has to strike out a path for herself. The sooner then 
that she remembers that there are seven days in the week, and 
that that period of time constitutes one revolution of the house- 
hold, the sooner she will come into her kingdom and reign 
undisturbed by her people. 

It is very evident frDm the above remarks, that it will be abso- 
lutely necessary to arrange a system of work that will be adapted 
to every member of your household. We, therefore, give you a 
plan for the week, which can be amended in any manner you 
may think necessary. 

A PLAN OF WORK FOR THE WEEK. 

Monday. — This day has been considered the universal wash- 
day in America, thereby making Monday the most dreaded day 
of the week. Now, by changing washing from Monday to Tues- 
day, you have Monday to make all of your preparations in, and 
thus avoid both annoyance and anxiety. You can utilize Mon- 
day by doing odd jobs, such as washing windows, brightening 
the silver, cleaning stair-rods, etc., etc. A host of them will 
come crowding into the housekeeper's mind, and she will find 
that the day is not long enough to get them all done, and some 
must take their turn on the next Monday. There is that closet 
you have so long been anxious should be cleaned ; that jar of 
preserves to be attended to, or they will spoil ; and various in- 
cidental matters of this kind in addition to the "odd jobs." 
Monday will be a busy and a much valued day. It is a good 
time to select for all these extras, just after the rest of Sunday, 
and before the regular rush of the "week',s housework begins. 

But you must save time from this work that your servant 
may, towards evening, help you to prepare the clothes for the 
next day's wash. Direct her to divide them into three parcels, 
the fine, the more common, but not much soiled, and the really 



4 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

dirty. While this is being done you can put down on your list 
the number of articles of each kind. It is well to do this, even 
with honest servants, for, if anything is missing, the owner is 
sure to insist that it was lost in the wash, and the list will at 
once show whether the charge is correct. Have ready threo 
tubs of cold, soft water, and put in the clothes, having first 
rubbed soap over the parts most soiled, and leave them to soak 
all night. 

Tuesday. — After breakfast, place your wash-boiler on the 
stove, place in your washing fluid and several pieces of hard 
soap cu* up in shavings, together with the required amount 
of soft water. Put in the fine clothes, and boil them twenty 
minutes. Take out with as little water as possible, and without 
wringing, put into clear, cold water. If there are any soiled 
SDots remaining on the clothes, they should be rubbed out be- 
fore wringing from this water into the bluing water. The tub 
of bluing water is set near the other, so that the articles shall 
fall into it from the wringer. Put your second division of 
clothes into the boiler, in the same water from which the fine 
things were taken, and repeat the same process; but, if you 
have a third boiler full, it will be better to prepare fresh water. 
Take the clothes out of the blue water, and rinse in cold soft 
water, wring out, and hang out to dry. With this plan of wash- 
ing, and fair weather, the clothes will all be hung out by noon, 
unless the wash is very large, and the servant will have the 
afternoon for cleaning' up the Kitchen and wash-room, putting 
away the tubs, boiler, etc., and making herself tidy. In the 
evening, the fine clothes and most of the starched things are 
to be sprinkled and folded, ready for ironing, and the bread is 
to be " set," for the next day's baking. 

Wednesday.— The baking this morning need not be as large 
as that done on Saturday, and it should be done as early as the 
morning work will allow, so that the servant may not be hur- 
ried in beginning the ironing, and do her work badly. She 
can easily do the ordinary fine ironing of a family and her other 
work in this ;part of a day. But, if there is much ruffling on 
ladies' dresses, and fine work oa children's clothes, it will 
require a whole day's hard work to do it, and, in such a case, 
the mistress should hire some one to assist, or do all the ordi- 
nary housework herself. In the evening, the plainer and 
coarser clothes are to be sprinkled, and folded for ironing. 

Thursday.— In the morning the ironing is to be finished. 
Where it is stipulated in the bargain that the servant should 
have half a day every week, this is the best afternoon to give 
her. It is the leisure interval between ironing and sweeping; 
and, as it is the day usually given by housekeepers, it enables 
the girl to meet her friends when she goes out. 

Friday.— Besides the every day sweeping, dusting, and put- 
ting to rights, it is necessary to devote one day in the week to 
this special duty, and Friday suits best for the purpose. The 
sitting-room, dining-room, halls, and stairways must be swept 
often, but once a week will be found generally sufficient for the 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 6 

rest of the house. To do this thoroughly and well will require 
the whole of a day in addition to the ordinary work. In the 
evening the bread must be set to rise for the next day's baking. 

Saturday This is the busiest day of the week. There is 

the regular morning work ; then the baking ; then the scrub- 
bing and scouring. And the latter part of the day should be 
occupied in preparing everything for the next day, so that Sun- 
day shall be a day of rest for all as far as practicable. The 
whole breakfast can be so arranged as to occupy but a very few 
minutes in cooking, and, in winter, nearly everything for din- 
ner can be prepared; and, in summer, most things will keep 
well on ice, or in a cool cellar. The Sunday dessert can always 
be made on Saturday. But do not let the Saturday's work run 
into the evening. 

Sunday.— Do not work at all on this day, except what is 
actually neccbsary for comfort. If you see a dusty corner, or a 
dim window pane, let it alone untif the next day. Some put- 
ting of things to rights there must be, some making of beds and 
cooking. But there is no need of getting up especially elabo- 
rate dinners on this day, and, if Saturday afternoon has been 
employed as it should have been, your cooking will not occupy 
very much time. There are people who will stuff a turkey and 
roast it, and cook three or four vegetables, and stew cranberry 
sauce for dinner, and yet will not make up a pan of biscuit 
for supper, because " it is wicked to work in flour Sundays!" 
This is only one of a dozen senseless ideas of the same kind. 
The idea is not that any particular kind of work is in itself sin- 
ful on this day, but that it is the day set apart for Christian 
worship, and you and your family desire to attend church ; and 
to have the servant attend also, and, if there were no higher 
principles involved, all creatures need a rest one day in seven. 



How TO Sew Caepets.— Lay two breadths on the floor, and 
match the figures accurately; then with a carpet-needle and 
thread, tack the breadths together in several places, generally at 
points and intersections of figures, by taking a stitch or two, 
and then tying the ends of the thread into a knot. This must 
be done securely, so there is no danger that the figures will 
slip out of place when you turn the carpet over to sow it. If, in i 
tacking this way, you find that one edge is fuller than the other, 
so that it will necessarily " pucker " when sewed, do not be 
alarmed, for it will all come right. Your first business is to 
match the figures at all hazards. Having done this you can cut 
the two breadths apart. Then lay down the third breadth, 
match the figures, and tack in the same manner; and so on, 
until all the breadths are tacked and cut. In laying down the 
breadths you must allow a little at each end for turning in. 
Now turn j^our carpet on the wrong side, and sew the breadths 
together, with an over-seam, or by putting the needle through 
one edge and bringing it back through the other. The stitches 
should not be taken through the whole thickness, only the 



6 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

under half. In this way the stitches can lie closely, and the edges 
be securely fastened together, without danger of drawing open 
when laid down, and yet the seam will not be heavy, nor the 
thread show on the right side. Wh«^n a carpet is tacked down, 
it should be stretched rather tightly, or it will rub up in 
folds and wrinkles, after being walked over for a few days. 
The figures will be your best guide in this, for they must, oi 
course, run in straight lines, and not be drawn out of shape. 
After the carpet is tacked down, you will find, in most cases, 
that the puckers in the seams have disappeared, but if they have 
not, th«y generally will in a few days : if, however, they are very 
obstinate, wet them with clean cold water, and, when the carpet 
dries, you will find it is smooth. 

How TO Do Up Curtains.— Before the curtains are put in the 
wash, tack all around them narrow strips of white cotton cloth, 
an inch or two wide. Dissolve a little soda in milk-warm water, 
and put in the curtains. Let them remain for half an hour, stir- 
ring and pressing them occasionally. Wring them very care- 
fully—rather squeezing than wringing, whenever this process is 
to be performed. Place them in cold water for an hour. Then 
wash them with soap aud warm water (but not hot). Wash 
again in clean water, rather hotter than the last. Binse them 
in bluing water (only slightly blue, unless the curtains are very 
yellow). Wring carefully in clean towels. They are now ready 
for starching. Make the starch according to the usual process, 
but be sure to have it clear, and good, and thin, for musJin, and 
vei-y thin for lace. Thick starch is utterly destructive to the fine, 
soft appearance of the lace. Stir a few times round in the 
starch, while boiling, a wax or sperm candle, or put into it a 
small piece of white wax. If the latter is used, it should be 
melted and poured in. When the starch is ready, pour half of 
it into one pan, and half into another. Dip the curtains in one ; 
wring them out in towels ; then dip into the second, and wring 
again. On the floor of an unoccupied room spi-ead a couple of 
sheets, one under the other, for each curtain, or rather, half of 
a curtain. A large sheet folded may be wide enough. Shake 
the curtain, with assistance from some one, and lay it down 
smoothly, the edges of the cotton cloth to the edges of the sheet. 
Pin down the top and back. The other sides will then come 
perfectly straight without pinning. Leave them to dry; and 
then remove the strips of cloth, and hang the curtains to the 
windows at once. They should not be folded. If you should 
desire to put them away for a while, roll them lightly in a loose, 
soft roll, and wrap in 'blue paper, or cotton, the former prefer- 
able ; but, in both instances, assure yourself that the blue dye 
does not rub off ; and lay them where no weight will press against 
them. 

Matting. — Matting should never be washed vvith anything but 
salt and water — a pint of salt to half a pailful of soft water, 
moderately warm. Dry quickly with a soft cloth. Twice dur- 
ing the season will probably be sufficient washing for a bed- 
room, but a room much tised will require it somewhat oft- 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 7 

Oil-cloth is ruined by the application of lye soap, as the lye 
eats the cloth, and, after being washed, it should be wiped 
perfectly dry, or the dampness will soon rot it. If laid down 
where the sun will shine on it much, it will be apt to stick fast 
to the floor, unless paper is laid under it. 

Oiled Fuknitube.— When oiled walnut begins to grow dingy, 
it can be made to look as fresh as new by re-oiling. Linseed, or 
even olive oil can be used, but pure, good kerosene oil is much 
the best. Rub it well in with a soft woolen rag, and polish with 
clean, dry flannel. 

Silver.— Silver should never be allowed to grow dingy, and 
need not, if properly washed after every meal. Wash in very 
hot soft water, with hard soap. Wipe hard and quickly, on a 
clean towel, and polish with dry flannel. If discolored with 
egg, mustard, etc., rub out the stain with a small, stiff brush, 
and silver soap, or whatever you use for cleaning silver ; then 
wash off in hot water, wipe, and polish. Use soft towels. This 
is for the articles in common use. Once a week have all the 
silver cleaned. If you wish to place silver away for any length 
of time, wrap each article in blue paper, and it will keep a good 
color. 

Gilt Feames.— Boil three or four onions in a pint of water, 
then with a clean paint brush wash over your frames, and the 
flies will not alight on them. No injury will result to the 
frames. This renders unnecessary the unsightly drapings of 
gauze. 

Beds should be carefully examined very frequently, especially 
during the summer months, by the housekeeper, as servants 
neglect this duty altogether, or perform it carelessly. It is diffi- 
cult to get rid of bed-bugs when they have once fairly estab- 
lished themselves in a house. Even new houses are sometimes 
infested by them, as there are certain kinds of wood in which 
they make their home, and thus their nests are built into the 
house. But they can be driven entirely off the field, if the war 
is only carried on briskly enough, and persisted in for a long 
time. When you think the last foe has yielded, and you have 
rested for awhile on your laurels, you will be surprised some 
day to find one skirmishing on the sheet, or perhaps on your 
best shawl, and on investigation you will discover that he is 
only the advanced guard of a whole regiment lying in ambush 
in some secure retreat. Even if you do not see one for the 
remainder of that summer, you have no security that they will 
not appear the next spring in apparently undiminished force. 
But do not give way to despair; keep fighting, and you will be 
victorious at last. When one fails to make its appearance in a 
house for the whole of a summer, you may congratulate your- 
Lelf that the foe is completely routed. Here, again, there is no 
absolute security. You have certainly destroyed all the native 
inhabitants, but you do not know what day there may come a 
foreign importation. So you must keep a good lookout. 
Eternal vigilance is certainly the price of freedom from bed-bugs. 
Hot steam is the best thing for driving these creatures from 



8 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

the walls of houses. A small steaming apparatus can be bought 
for an inconsiderable sum, or with a little ingenuity one can be 
fitted up at the cost of a dollar or so. Use it freely, and scald 
out every corner and crevice, from garret to cellar, quite fre- 
quently, until you feel sure that they are entirely dislodged; 
and after that, once or twice a year will be sufacient. The 
persistent use of scalding w.ater on bedsteads, pouring it 
on the slats, and springs, and joinings (the bedstead must be 
often taken apart for this purpose), will prove effectual in time, 
if no other means are used. ]3ut there are various substances 
employed to hasten the desired result. Corrosive sublimate— an 
ounce of it to a half pint of alcohol — is an old remedy, and 
effectual. So is quiclcsilver, beaten up with the whites of eggs. 
But both of these are deadly poisons, and housekeepers are 
afraid to use them. Persons very sensitive to poisons have 
been made sick by sleeping on bedsteads where corrosive 
sublimate had been recently applied. Some use hartshorn, but 
this injures paint and varnish. Some use nothing but salt and 
water, and others assert that kerosene oil is a sovereign remedy. 
There are various powders sold that are effectual as bug 
destroyers, but housekeepers usually find them very unreliable; 
one package will be ail that it claims to be, and another of the 
same kind of powder, bought at the same place, will he good for 
nothing. Sometimes this is because the powder has been 
adulterated, but generally because it has become stale. And 
these are, also, often very poisonous. One of the most popular 
of these, however, the Persian Insect Powder, is perfectly harm- 
less to human beings, and is a deadly poison to all insects that 
infest houses. It is imported into this country from the East, 
and is prepared from a flower of the same genus as our Fever- 
few. But a great deal of this that is sold is good for nothing, 
also. If you can buy it in the original packages in which it was 
imported, you may feel pretty sure that it is good. Mattress 
covers should be washed every month or two, but so arrange it 
that all will not be in the wash at the same time. Sheets must 
be thoroughly aired before putting away, must be kept in a per- 
fectly dry place, and should not be put upon the bed any length 
of time before they are to be used. When .a guest has left, and 
a bedroom is to be unoccupied for a time, fold up the bed-spread 
and blankets, and lay them carefully away ; and, having sent 
the sheets, bolster and pillow-cases to the wash, put on the 
pillow-slips made of calico, and spi-ead over mattress and bolster 
a covering made of the same. Thus everything will be kept 
clean until wanted again. Mattresses should be exposed to the 
air every day, and have a good airing once a week ; and some- 
times should be put out lor a whole day in the sun and wind. 
In the case of invalids, where this cannot well be done, hair 
mattresses can be used without it longer than any other. But 
here, if there are two beds, one can be spared sometimes for a 
good airing. 

How TO Clean Feathee Beds.— There ai-e several ways of 
doing this, but the following is recommended, as it cleans both, 
tick and feathers: Contrive, if possible, some sore of a plat- 
form, that you can set up in the yard, on which to lay your beds 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 9 

for cleaning or airing. Failing this, use a back porch. Wash 
the platform clean, and lay on it the feather bed, and let it 
remain there during the night in the dew. In the morning, 
before the dew is off, take a pail of clean, cold, soft water, and, 
•with a new whisk broom, wet and rub the upper side of the bed 
for some time. Let it lie in the sun until it is dry, which will 
not be for several hours. Turn it over and treat the other side 
in the same way, and continue the process until the white 
stripes in the ticking look as clean as new. This treatment of 
the feathers makes them " lively." If there is any indication of 
rain, the bed must be taken into the house. And if you are 
afraid to leave the bed out at night, because of thieves, the dew 
must be dispensed with in the treatment. 

How TO Wash Featheb Pillows.— The best way to wash 
these is to put them out in a good hard rain for several hours ; 
and then wring them out, and dry quickly, that they may not 
get musty. 

Vases.— It may not be generally known that bright-colored 
vases, and those ornamented with flowers, do not show off real 
flowers to the best advantage. White or brown are best for this 
purpose. 

FiEES.— Fires should be kindled at least once a week in every 
room through fall and winter, to prevent dampness. 
"Disinfectants.— These should never be left more than a 
week unchanged, as they throw out the poisons they gather. 

The Stove Ukn.— Keep the stove urn nearly filled with 
water as long as the fire is kept up in the stove. Put a little 
charcoal also in the urn, and this ought to be changed every 
week. 

Wall Papers Old paper should be removed from the walls 

before the new is put on. It can easily be done by wetting it 
with warm water. After it is all off, have the plaster wiped 
over with carbolic acid, to purify it. The disagreeable odor of 
the acid will disappear almost immediately, and you can then 
feel sure there is nothing infectious lurking in your walls. Use 
corn-starch paste for putting on the new paper, as it does not 
turn sour, or stain the paper. 

CovEEiNG FOE A Stove. — Even the prettiest stove is not in 
itself a very beautiful object. In the cold weather, when there 
is a fire burning in it all the time, and it gives a pleasant sensa- 
tion of warmth to the occupants of the room, they forgive its 
ugliness, and regard it with very friendly feelings; but in sum- 
mer it stands out in cold, cheerless deformity. And yet if there 
are no open flre-places, the stove should be left standing in at 
least one room all summer, to be in readiness for the cold 
" north-oasters " when the whole house seems pervaded with 
dampness, which a little fire will soon dissipate. In the fall, 
too, the stove ought to be put up in the sitting-room very early, 
and the fuel laid in it all ready for lighting whenever there is a 
chUly evening. To conceal the stove, when not in use, you 
can make a covering for it somewhat in the following style: 
Have a light pine frame made, consisting of a square or oval 



lO HOW TO KEEt» HOUSE. 

top, on which are fitted three or four legs a little higher than the 
stove. Drape this frame with any pretty material that is suffi- 
ciently thick to conceal the stove. The under drapery must be 
tacked on quite full, and should fall to the floor ; the upper must 
be still fuller to drape gracefully. Arrange the festoons in anv 
style you fancy, only take care that some of them shall fall 
nearly to the bottom of the under drapery, or else your stand 
will look •' lanky." Trim with woolen or cotton cord, according 
to material used, and hang tassels whereverthey will be effective. 
Before the drapery is put on, the top of the stand should be 
rubbed •perfectly smooth, and then stained with black walnut 
stain. This frame can be reaioved easily whenever a fire is 
needed. A vase of flowers or grasses can stand on the top. 

To Presebve Various Kinds of Fruit Through the Winter. 
—Apples can be kept till June by taking only those that are 
hard and sound, wiping them dry, then packing them in tight 
barrels, with a layer of bran to e'ach layer of apples. Envelop 
the barrel in a linen cloth, to protect it from frost, and keep it 
in a cool place, but not so cold as to freeze the apples. It is 
said that mortar, laid over the top of a barrel of apples, is a good 
thing to preserve them, as it draws the air from them, which ia 
the principal cause of their decaying. Care should be taken 
not to have it come in contact with the apples. To preserve 
oranges and lemons several months, take those that are per? 
fectly fresh and wrap each one in soft paper, put them in glass 
jars or a very light box, with white sand that has been previously 
dried in an oven a few hours after it has been baked in. The 
sand should be strewed thick over each one of the oranges as 
they are laid in the jar, and the whole covered with a thick layer 
of it. Close the jar iip tight, and keep it in a cool, dry place, but 
not so cool as to freeze the fruit. To preserve grapes, gather 
them on a dry day, when they are not quite dead ripe, and pick 
those that are not far off from the stems. Lay the bunches of 
grapes in a glass jar and sprinkle around each of them a thick 
layer of bran, so that they will not touch each other. Have a 
thick layer of bran on the top, and cork and seal the jar very 
tight, so that the air may be entirely excluded. Whenever they are 
to be eaten, restore them to their freshness by cutting off a small 
piece from the end of the stalks and immerse the stalks of each 
bunch in sweet wine for a few minutes. The stalks will imbibe 
the wine and make the grapes fresh and juicy. Various kinds 
of fruit, taken when green, such 'as grapes, gooseberries, cur- 
rants and plums, can be kept through the winter by being 
treated in the following manner : Fill junk bottles with them 
and set them in an oven six or seven hours, after having baked 
in it. Let them remain till they begin to shrink, then take the 
fruit from one bottle to All the others quite full. Cork and seal 
up the bottles. Whenever you wish to make pies of them, put 
the quantity you wish to use into a tin pan, turn on boiling 
water sufficient to cover them, and stew them in it till soft, then 
sweeten and make them into pies. Ripe blackberries and 
whortleberries, to be kept long, should be dried perfectly in the 
sun, then tied up in bags that are thick enough to exclude the 
air. When used for pies, treat them in the same manner as the 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE.. H 

f..„jf Rinponrrants dried oa the stalks, then picked off 
fnd^nuUnbaS win keep nice ^ pies duringthe winter, They 
and put in da^^, ^"^*^7.^p„so„s that have a fever, particularly 
t°hri^^tvenrJ°alsr«urcelle.t thing to counteract the 

"T^irplr^ AND W.XEB-PEOOF C.MKKT To half a pint 
^^ Tr'TAKE Wax out of CLOTH.-Hold a red-hot iron (a poker 



remain. 



leather becomes ^^^^e saturated that is to s^^^^^ 

longer duration. . ., 

With a very clear light. ^^^^m^^ f«QtA 

How TO CABVE ON WooD.-All boys «^a°if^f ,tfr P dei aI 

that it is born in them as much as niw^mg dolls ^ ™ |'Qj j^^ 
to account tor the fact that ^° ■?»{'^y 7^^ ™|,°f^ nto ^^^ 'art 

women as a rule, have more leisure than men, oJ^.P^^^^f^^ .V " 



12 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

mechanical, and only requires care and nicety in cutting and n 
very moderate supply of patience. It is in desiSAhe 
patterns and in putting the pieces of carved wood togethe? that 
your genius and taste are called into use. If you do not possess 
£end\vhn-.o^n '^'' P,^^"^^!'^^, thing-perhap^; y?u have somi 
thl,S i '^ fl ^^J" ^''^■'l designs for you ; and, if not, you can buy 
them in inflnite variety. Even in the matter of pu ting together 
you can obtam directions so explicit that you will have tS take 
grecit pains to go wrong ; but it is best to trust to your taste and 
worK^^f'- ^/ "'^"^ 'K F^rthisis one useful purpose of all 
work thjy; IS known as " fancy." First, in regard to the wood 
This can be generally obtained fronl any cabinet-mlkl? or 
STe'LJA' ^Tr' ''I'' P^"^^^^'>' ^'^^^ ?he greatest variety 
?o nhfpin ?hi%"''^'-'®^- ^" f'^'^'l^'y P^-'^^es you may not be able 
rhA«?nn/ I H ^^^^1^^ ^'O'^'is, but you can get Walnut. Oak 
Sm be w'^lf ."'t^fiS-^'f ' ^PPlet^ee- Cedar. Holly! and others It 
will be well at first for you to consult with the man from whom 

^om.^bS'h" 'h''^^/^1° ^^" properties of the differenUvood? 
some being hard, and others soft, some soiling very easily with 
use and others bein^ difficult to polish, or varnish but vou 
?nn« o??h "'Y^ ^^?'" ^^^^'. y^^^'^^^f Wood varies in J)rice.K 
fnl^nH^ifTIVf^'T.^^^ ^^he mDst beauti- 

l^XZ^^ f^u costly-of the foreign woods are satinwood, rose- 

,T m«; Zi?^^^.' ^"^ ^^^ l^^^*^' ^«^"S ^^^y effective, a little of 
t may be made to go a great way by using it for tiAy center- 
pieces, narrow moldings, etc. With some pieces of wood, pretty 
patterns and inexpensive tools you can cut very respeSle 
Easels, Brackets, Picture-Frames, Letter-Holders, Book-Rackg 
n?.nr.°?7^" -.^^^^^ ^^^^\ •''^•"^^^•^' ^^d ^^^^ ornaments for iS 
Snd opnlr!!"?'^"'^- 5}^d-Papef for rubbing the wood smooth^ 
and cement for mending breakages, will also be necessary 
The small saws are about twenty cents a dozen. They cau- 
thir^^ l^^^ without a frame in which to place them to steady 
£ .ShcA *i you will have to practice some time before you will 
be satisned with your work. But it can be done well with a 
little patience. Those who wish to go extensively into this busi- 
3f^' n^*^ club of persons who desire to work together, would 
do well to purchase a jig-saw at twenty-five dollars. This not 
only saws wood, but soft metals; is mounted on a table like a 
WUh''LT''^'''r' ^""^ is. worked somewhat in the same way! 
W.M rv!? ' w^od-carving is very easy and fascinating work, and 
you may aspire to making really beautiful tilings, 
cf J^^^^^T ^TAiN._We give this first because it is useful for 
SicS ^if ^°'^''* any article of furniture, and many ornaments 
sSh /. n^'^'^Sr^^^r''^'^^ ^t will impart to common wood,' 
m,«r^r. P/"®' t^^e colpr and appearance of black walnut. On4 
quarter of a pound of asphaltum, one half pound of common 
hpS L; ^ -f T^ ^5^".r P^ turpentme. If found too thin add 
mn« ?«Ll J^J'^*'^-'^ color add asphaltum, though that 
SS^Ll^^-'^®*^'^^,^^^^^^^',^^ ^ very li<^tie "Will make a great 
difference in the shade, as the wood should Hot be black, But a 
SS^^^*^?.'^^°.\°.- ^^^ek is the color of the nut, and not the 
wood. Varnishmg is not essential, as the wax gives a good 



HOW to KEEP HOUSE. 13 

WnrtT. PnTT^TT -This is rather a tedious process, and the best 



wards. 



AsPHALTUM Varnish— One half a pound of asphaltuni and 

nhaUum The proper proportions cak only be known by thus 

IxJerim^nUng. ^Ip^ply one^r two coats, as may be necessary. 

Leaves of LEAXHEB.-Soak a ^^^^f^fZ^.f'^^^oTlhl 

S?e used for Sure-frames, and for ornamenting the edges of 
booSelvesf the'^tops of booi.-cases, braclcets, and a variety of 



things. 



deepen with age. . ^ . 

as they soon fall apart. 

Ptne Cones -These are also much used for decoratmg,. and 
areTry handsome when varnished, but if gl^^d on are liable 
fnfnU off after some time. They can sometimes be tacked on. 
Th?y shoS Wbf S'xed with other things and, for most pur- 
posel the small ones are the prettiest. The scales ot^ea^^^ 
cones are very pretty, each scale nailed on with small up- 



14 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

holsterer's tacks, first boring the holes, so as not to split the 
wood. Besides the above, there are many small things used for 
decorating, such as unroasted coffee beans, small black beans, 
kernels of rice ; and these, if well glued on, are not as apt to 
fall off as the heavier cones and acorns. These can be arranged 
in geometrical figures, rosettes, balls, and almost any way that 
fancy may suggest. Varnish with asphaltum, or black varnish, 
if you prefer it, which can be procured at any paint-shop. 
Cloves, allspice, and berries are strung on wires and twisted 
into scallops, double scallops, diamonds, etc., for edging and 
borderings. 

Rustic Work. — This is chiefly used for ornamenting large 
hanging baskets, aquariums, flower stands, and lawn tables, 
settees, and chairs ; and sometimes for smaller articles, such as 
boxes and picture-frames. The materials are sticks of various 
woods, either flat or round, generally oiled and varnished, but 
sometimes with the bark left on. Twigs of various woods are 
freely employed ; these have the bark on, and may be straight 
or bent, according to effect desired; birch, hazel, and silver 
poplar are among the prettiest. Willow wands are easy to 
work with, and grape vines are not difficult to manage. These 
can be used with or without the bark. It is better to oil all 
wood from which the bark is stripped, but this is not absolutely 
necessary. Bits of rattan, strips of lath, pine cones, acorns, 
walnut shells sawed in pieces, walnut hulls (split in two), are 
all employed in rustic work ; and other materials will doubtless 
suggest themselves to those who have any knowledge of wood- 
craft. Asphaltum varnish will be found best on most rustic 
work, but for variety, black varnish, or even paint may be used 
when it is in wood colors, and not applied too thickly. 

Plain Brackets.— These may be constructed in simple forms 
of the plain wood, without any elaborate carving. They will 
not, of course, be as handsome, but are quite as useful. A lit- 
tle shelf, with semicircular front, and sides cut to fit into a cor- 
ner, may simply be fastened on the chair- rail. This is a corner 
shelf rather than a bracket, but is a convenient place for a vase 
of flowers or little bust. A small shelf, with straight back, and 
semicircular front fitted to a standard, is the plainest style of 
the bracket proper. You will have to get a carpenter to cut the 
shelves and standards. You can then convert the plain affair 
into something fanciful by decorating shelf and standard with 
any of the leather or wood ornaments previously described. 

Letter Racks. — These may be cut out of leather or wood. 
If of the former, you can do it yourself, having first cut a paper 
pattern. Ornament the leather with small leaves, arranged in 
various forms, and the wood with rosettes of small articles, and 
pine cone scales, etc. They are sometimes made of embroid- 
ered cloth or satin, but these only suit bedrooms and libraries. 

Picture-Frames. — The prettiest home-made frames, after 
those made from the carved wood, are of leather leaves. Rustic 
work, if simple in construction, also looks well. Quite a grace- 
ful-looking oval frame may be formed by twisting grape-vines 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 15 

fantastically together, allowing the ends to project at the top 
and bottom. 

store-room shc^uld be very aryn^ suspended from them, 

shelves, and nav^^ ™ '^ It should contain, also, earthenware 
for hanguig lemons n. ^^/'^"^^^"Jj,' tea, coffee, and biscuits. 

required for sw6etenmg. JMoist or urowu ^ .^q po^^ery or 

them in separate nets, for f they tm^cntn^^^ ^ ^^.^_ 

shallots and g^rhc should be hung m r i ^^^.^^ 

ing in an out-house {not m ^^/^^^^,^^^^^""'l^^ be dried and 
savory, knotted marjoram and thy'J^fiX.^'o^ly one descrip- 
^-^'^o^hiV l^lTiev's^'outd be^d?ie^ not in the 

wmmmmmm 



16 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

vessels, and stale and fresh milk should never be mixed, or the 
good will be spoiled. 

How TO Make Flowek Stands. Fill the box about one- 
third full of sand, and in this imbed the flower-pots contain- 
ing your plants, arranging them with reference to size, and 
also to color, if in blossom. Spread moss over the top of the 
stand in such a way as to conceal the pots. This will have to 
be renewed a few times during the winter. The sand should 
be kept damp, but not wet, and the moss also a little damp ; 
and the plants should be watered very little except in the 
case of ^ those that require an unusual supply of moisture, and 
these had better not be kept in the same stand Avith those that 
require only the ordinary supply. For fanciful forms of flower- 
stands, you should have the standards made by a neighboring 
cabinet-maker in plain wood and of any device. You can then 
ornament them with rustic work at your leisure. For the top 
you can have a round, square, or octagon box, also em- 
bellished with rustic work. Fill with soil. Or you 
can have a flat circular piece of wood nailed to the 
standard, forming a round table. Make rustic work around 
the edge so that it shall be several inches high, and set on the 
table a basket made like a hanging basket, only larger, or some 
fancifully-made box, flUed with soil for the reception of plants. 
All stands should be mounted on casters for convenience of 
moving. Your own taste will suggest a variety of elegant de- 
vices for flower-stands, either for plants or cut flowers. If you 
can have the frames properly made according to your design, 
you can yourself ornament them in many beautiful styles. And 
there is nothing that so adorns a room as a flower stand, with 
its variety of greens and brilliant colors. 

How TO Make Hanging Baskets.— Take a cocoanut shell, 
and saw oft' a small section from the upper part, put in it a 
little piece of sponge, fill the shell with nothing but scouring 
sand, and a little charcoal, put in it the common plant, known 
generally as moneywort, and hang it where it can get the light 
and a little sunshine, and you will soon have long swaying 
festoons and pendants of soft green, entwined with golden 
blossoms, through which will gleam the dark rich brown of 
your cocoanut shell, thus easily transformed into "a thing of 
beauty." This is the simplest form of the hanging basket. For 
larger ones you can use wooden bowls, ornamented with rosettes 
and flgures made of coffee, rice, and berries, as mentioned 
previously. With these can be mingled scales of pine cones, 
leather, leaves, etc. Or they can have edgings of rustic work, 
the rest of the bowl being ornamented with rosettes and balls 
made of the small materials. Three holes must be bored at 
regular distances near the edge for the cords that are to support 
the basket. Very pretty baskets are made of sticks of oak, 
maple, or any of the handsomely-colored woods ; they should 
be of equal lengths, eight or twelve inches long. Build up like 
a loghouse. At each corner a heated wire is thrust through 
the ends of the sticks to hold them together, and is bent into a 
loop at the top which supports the cord. A wooden bottom 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 1*? 

must be nailed on. Fill the interstices with naoss. And so we 
SLht go on through all the gradations, which are almost in- 
finite §p to the elaborate and intricate designs in carved wood 
S-work, cork, etc. There is nothing easier to make than a 
hanging basket, or more difficult if you choose to take trouble 
Butfhe^idea that many persons have that tbey must be bought 
is erroneous, for all the plainer styles that are sold by flomts 
cln be imitated with perfect success ^^ithoutverv much trouble 
A basket covered with rustic work carefully made, and pietty 
in design, with a handle of twisted grape vines, at an ex- 
penditure of fifty cents for materials, and a dollar for plants 
Snd V nes, will be quite as handsome as one the Aorist would 
sell vou for five dollars, and will have the advantage that the 
plaiits are much more likely to blossom For it is a common 
complaint that when the baskets lose the flowers that are on 
fhem when bought they bloom no more-not that season at 
least The reason is that the dry air of the room in which they 
are hung is too great a change from the moist air of their native 
home-^^ie green-house. Very few thmgs will grow ^ke money- 
wort in common sand, but the soil in a hanging basket should 
not be very rich, or you will have a profusion of leaves, and but 
?ew blossoms, 'a light sandy loam is best. In the bottom 
pl^ce a piece of coafse sponge This ^ill ^^^^ th%moisture 
and the roots will absorb it as they require it. Also put bits of 
charcoal in the bottom, as this acts as a purifier to keep the 
earth sweet. Then fill with soil, one part rich earth and two 
parts sand. 

How TO Make Wax FLOWEKS.-Wax flowers are the best 
imitations of the real ones, but where the latter can be obtained 
the former should be dispensed with. With the introduction of 
hanging baskets and flower-stands, we have natural flowers in 
profusion in winter, when it is not always easy to obtam he 
cut flowers. So there would seem to be no necessity for the 
wax imitations. If you make these, use them sparingly a 
spray of white lilies perhaps in one room, and * tea-rose 
in another. Do not mass them together m great bunches 
Wax fruits, heaped up under glass covers, are not desirable 
ornaments. We marvel for a few moments at their wonderful 
resemblance to the original, but we soon tire of them. In a 
large room, however, they or the flowers massed together, do 
sometimes produce a fine effect from a distance, as a focus ot 
brilliant colors. A wax cross, with a trailing vine of passion 
flowers and green leaves, or rising in naked simplicity from a 
bed of violets or pansies, is a beautiful ornament for a mantel- 
piece or bracket. 

Obn AMENTA L WINDOW PicTUEES.— Upon a square of white, or 
delicately tinted bristol-board, trace lightly some pretty design, 
such as a bouquet, a cluster of leaves and fruit, or a cross, or 
an anchor, wreathed with leaves and flowers. The latter should 
be simple in form ; passion flowers, lilies of the valley, apple 
blossoms, and sweet peas are the most effective. Fern leaves 
and fruit are also among the simpler designs. For more effect- 
ive pictures, select parts of a landscape, or figure pictures that 



18 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

are not too elaborate. Having traced the design, lay the bristol- 
board flat on a block of hard wood, and with a thin-bladed and 
very sharp knife proceed to cut smoothly through as much of 
each outline as possible, without entirely detaching any leaf or 
other distinct portion from the whole. One fifth of a leaf left 
without cutting through will be suflBcient. Sometimes judicious 
prickings with a coarse needle add to the good effect. The 
points of the leaves and the petals of the flowers should next be 
pressed through toward the window to admit the light, nnd give 
the softly shaded effect we desire. The transparency can then 
be huijig close to a window pane by means of narrow white rib- 
bon loops at the corners, secured to the wood-work. For lamp 
screens, several of these pieces of bristol-board, each with a 
separate picture, can be put together. The glass transparencies 
are more easily made, and require no skill in drawing. Arrange 
pressed ferns, grasses, or autumn leaves, according to some 
pretty design, on a pane of window glass. Lay a pane of the 
same size over it, and bind the edges together with ribbon. The 
best way to put on the binding, is to gum it all around the edge 
of the first pane you use, and let it dry before you arrange your 
design on it. Then you can fold it neatly over the second pane, 
and gum it on that. Use gum-tragacanth. It is well to put a 
narrow piece of paper under the ribbon. To form the loop for 
hanging, paste a binding of galloon along the upper edge before 
the ribbon binding is put on, leaving a two-inch loop in the 
center, to be pulled through a little slit in the final binding. For 
a lamp screen, take four, six, or eight of these transparencies, 
and tack them together with strong sewing silk. To soften the 
light, the screen should be lined with oiled tissue paper, white 
or rose color. Or you can give the glass the effect known as 
" ground glass," by rubbing the inner surface of each pane on a 
flat smooth stone, plentifully covered with white sand, before 
you insert the leaves. 

Maeeow Pomatum.— Lard, one pound ; suet, half a pound ; 
otto of lemon and cloves, three drachms of each. 

Ckystallized Hair-Oil. — Almond oil, one fluid pound; 
spermaceti, quarter of a pound ; otto of lemon, one ounce. 

Brandt Balls.— The same as bull's-eyes or barley-sugar, 
small pieces being taken, when hot, and rolled up into round 
balls, about the size of bullets. 

Rose Water.— Take six pounds of the leaves of fresh 
damask roses, and as much water as will prevent burning. 
Distill off half a gallon. 

Vanilla.— To make a fluid extract of vanilla, take eight Troy 
ounces vanilla and an equal weight of crushed loaf sugar. Slit 
the pods from end to end with a knife, then take them in small 
bundles, held tightly between the fingers, and cut them trans- 
versely into very small pieces. Of these, beat small portions at 
a time in an iron mortar with a little of the sugar, until reduced 
to a damp powder, which must be rubbed with the hand through 
a No. 20 sieve. Any coarse particles which do not pass through 
the sieve must be returned to the mortar, and with fresh por- 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 19 

tions of vanilla and eugar again Xc'eVto'a' No. 20 powden 

The jug is t^en pUjced ^^ ^^v^ter^.^f^^^ resting ^ J^temperaturo 
S???oAotol%deg F^^^^^^ The upper part of the jug 

by wrapping around 'Vl ili? from a sponge every fifteen or 

!:^rrSSro? tlJrpllS^SaSoae pan Sater, until 

'-•SlMi^ni^^l^^^KM 
recipes : ^^^r red take fott^aroi ^^^ ^^^^ ^^d orange. 

eggs not X'^7„^ji\^.ti,'/'S Prussi^^ b ue and a little ivory- 
Colcothar IS indelible ^^^J;' ^^^^^^^^ Common indigo and 



perch... ^w ~ - -. 
melted when wanted 



iMlTillON Goi,D.-Spani8h copper s.x and a halt penny_ 
S'^!io"Tr ■io^eSrVhe'^allof ^fi ^'bf woU mtein 
dollars the ounce. • ^. ^^ fraTYiA« 

Flies (to prevent them settling on Pjf ^^f f PJff /^t ^^ve or 
^I^SSr^T^^r^^^^^SS^KIil^tr^i^Xete., 

with it. 
Moths The following is an excellent recipe for keeping 

year. 



20 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

Salt Bheum.— To cure salt rheum wash the part affected 
with castile soap and water, and dry with soft cloth. Then wet 
with tincture of iodine, and let it dry, after which apply a lit- 
tle citrine ointment, made by dissolving 1 1-2 oz. mercury in 
1 1-2 oz. nitric acid. Stir till effervescence ceases. Heat 16 1-2 
oz. lard to 200 deg. Fahrenheit, in an earthen vessel, and add 
the solution, stirring until amalgamated. When the erup 
tion is on an exposed part a wash composed of 1 drachm corro- 
sive sublimate, 2 scruples white vitriol (sulphate of zinc), 3 
drachms sal ammoniac, 2 drachms salt, and three ounces sugar 
of lead, mixed with one pint soft water, may be used alternate- 
ly witlf the tincture of iodine. 

Mending Glass. — For mending valuable glass objects which 
would be disfigured by common cement, chrome cement may 
bo used. This is a mixture of five parts gelatine to one of a 
solution of acid chromate of lime. The broken edges are cov- 
ered with this, pressed together, and exposed to sunlight, the 
effect of the latter being to render the compound insoluble even 
in boiling water. 

Weak Eyes.— To cure weak eyes take rose-leaves, the more 
the better, and put them into a little water, then boil ; after this 
strain into a bottle and cork it tight. You will find this liquid, 
used as a bath, beneficial in removing redness and weakness. 

Wax. — To prepare wax for polishing floors, take twelve and 
one-half pounds of yellow wax, rasped, and stir into a hot so- 
lution of six pounds good pearl-ash, in rain-water, keeping the 
mixture well stirred while boiling. It is first quiet, but soon 
commences to froth, and when the effervescence ceases heat is 
stopped, and there are added to the mixture, while still stirring, 
six pounds dry yellow ochre. It may be then poured into tin 
cans or boxes, and hardens on cooling. When wanted for use, 
a pound of it is diffused in five pints boiling hot water and the 
mixture well stirred, and applied while hot to the floor by 
means of a paint-brush. It dries in a few hours after which 
the floor is to be polished with a large floor-brush, and after- 
ward wiped witii a coarse woolen cloth. A coat of this paint 
wiU last six months. 

Ink-Blots.— When ink-blots have been formed over writing 
which it is desired to decipher, brush the spot carefully with a 
weak solution of oxalic acid by means of a camel's hair pencil. 
In this way layer after layer of the superincumbent ink will be 
removed, and flnally the writing in most cases will come to 
view. This is especially possible when considerable time has 
elapsed betweeij the two applications of ink. As soon as the 
letters are visible, the brushing should be continued for a little 
time with clear water, so as to arrest the tendency of the acid to 
make further change in the ink. 

Wasps To destroy wasps, make a strong solution of cyanide 

of potassium ; soak a piece of lint, four or five inches square, 
with the solution, and lay it close to the entrance of a wasps' 
nest during the bright, hot part of the day. According as the 
wasps return home, they will alight on the lint and very soon 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 21 

die If the nest be in a tree, hold the soaked lint with a tongs 
oi split stick close under it, late in the evening when the wasps 
are at home for the night. Soon the wasps will fall out \n a 
thower^Tad Avoid inhaling the vapor, and be careful in 
touching this deadly poison. 

Haik-Wash —Tea-leaves (used) and borax, boiled together 
and used as hair- wash, will strengthen the roots o the hair to 
amostsuTpriSng degree. The proportions should be as fol- 
fows rTo the tea-^leavls left after using five teaspoonfuls o tea 
to make ei'^ht cups of tea, add half an ounce of borax; boil for 
ten mkiut^Tn a quart of water, strain, and apply the wash every 
morn ng. We think you will not have to complain of your hair 
felling off after you have tried this recipe for a fortnight. 

To Prepare Skeleton LEAVES.-The easiest and most ef- 
fectaal mode of making skeleton leaves is found to be to pie- 
pare th?peoSnces of^^washing-soda i^ one quart of boding 
water and half an ounce of sla ck lime, boiled ten minutes. 
Then pour off the clear solution, bring it to a boil again and 
nut in the leaves ; boil briskly for one hour ; add hot water as 
Ft boUs down. Bub a leaf between the fingers, under water, 
and if the skin and pulp come off easily, the leaves are done. 

Bad BEEATH.-For bad breath try the following : Three hours 
after bFeaSt take a teaspoonful of the fol^owiiig mixture : 
Chlorate of potassa, two drachms; sweetened water, four 
Sunces Wa^hthe mouth occasionally with the san^enaix^^^ 
and the breath will be as sweet as an infant's of two months. 

Etching.-To etch figures on German silver you should cover 
the article vou desire to experiment on with a thin coating of 
wax. mcrtSe del'red figures in the. wax through to the sur- 
face of the silver; then pour nitric acid over the surface of the 
wax thus operated upoii, and wash both wax and acid off. 

PUTTY.-Glaziers' putty is made of whiting and oil; the 
wWUng should be in the form of a very fine dry powder ; it 
Siould be specially dried for the purpose, and passed through a 
Ifeve of forty-flve\oles te the inch, and then mixed with as 
much raw hnseed oil as will form it into a stiff paste ; this, after 
Sg wen kneaded, should be left for tweve hours and worked 
upiS small pieces till quite smooth. Ij '^Tf^l.tL ffpVmet 
glazed pan, and covered with a wet cloth. If V^}^y ^fP^^f. 
hard and dry, it can be restored by heating it and working it 
up again while hot. For special purposes white-lead is some- 
times mixed with the whiting, or the putty is made of white- 
lead and litharge entirely. 

Blacking.— To make fine liquid blacking, take ivory black 
and molasses, of each one pound; sweet oil and oil of vitriol, 
of each quarter pound. Mix the first three, then gradually add 
the vitriol diluted with thrice its weight of water ; mix it well 
and let stand for three hours, when it may be reduced to a 
proper consistence with water or sour beer. 

Pink Eye.— A good remedy for pink eye is a tonic composed of 
pure sulphate of iron four ounces, nitrate of potash two ounces, 



22 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

linseed meal two ounces, fcsnugreek seed half an ounce ; powder 
and mix. Give a tablespoonful twice a day in soft feed, and 
give gentle exercise. Rub the throat (if swollen) with a lini- 
ment composed of the following articles : aqua ammonia, lin- 
seed oil, and turpentine, one ounce each; mix; rub a little in 
once a day until mildly blistered. 

MiBRORS.— The process of making a mirror by covering glass 
with an amalgam of mercury and tin, known as quicksilver, 
has been in use for three centuries. It consists in spreading out 
upon a solid horizontal table a sheet of tin-foil, which is first 
rubbed and afterward covered to a sensible depth with mercury, 
so thikt the superior surface may remain liquid. The mercury 
is prevented from flowing by means of slight ledges placed 
around the sheet. The glass, after having been very carefully 
cleansed on the lower or coating surface, is advanced horizon- 
tally along the layer of mercury, its lower edge being depressed 
below the surface, so as to exclude air and to remove impuri- 
ties. When in proper position it is left resting on the mercury, 
and by tilting the table the superfluous liquid is allowed to flow 
off, being caught in a trough provided for the purpose at the 
margin of the table. A uniform pressure is then applied to the 
glass, and it is allowed to remain for some time in this condi- 
tion, after which it is carefully lifted, the amalgam adhering to 
it, and is placed with the amalgamated surface uppermost. 
Some weeks' rest is required to allow the amalgam to harden, 
though it occasionally happens that a mirror will not dry for 
months. 

Vermin in the Hair of Children.- The most effectual mode 
of destroying vermin in the hair is to dissolve five grains of 
bichloride of mercuiy (corrosive sublimate) in half a pint of 
distilled water, and wet the hair well with the solution. This 
lotion must be used with caution, as it is deadly poison if taken 
into the stomach. 

Rice Glue.— Mix together rice-flour and cold water to a thick 
paste, pressing out all the lumps with a spoon, and making it 
very smooth. Then dilute it with a little more water (alto- 
gether you may allow a gill of water to a tablespoonful of rice- 
flour j, and boil it slowly as long as you would boil starch, 
stirrmg it frequently. When done, set it to cool. Use it for 
pasting fine paper, and for any little ornamental articles made 
of pasteboard. It is a very nice and durable cement. The 
water in which rice has been boiled for the table will afford a 
cement for slight purposes. 

Wrinkles, Lines, Crow's-Feet, Etc To remove these when 

presenting themselves prematurely, or when the results of 
severe illness, as well as to ward them off at that lime of life 
when they may be expected to show themselves, several essen- 
tial points must be observed. The face should be well bathed 
in cold water every morning, winter as well as summer, by 
means of a sponge. Curd, honey, or common yellow soap 
should be used in washing the face previous to the bathing. 
The oftener cold water is applied to the face the better. If any 
roughness of the skin ensues, a little cold cream, applied at 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 2^ 

nicht will soon remove it. Then, again, as much exercise 
s can be conveniently taken in the open air, every day, is to be 
nr«7ticed The diet must be generous, but wholesome. Plenty 
o substakial food should be taken with port wine, or stout or 
norter Vinegar, pickles, and other acids must be avoided. 

mmmmm 

surface and covered with lead-foil. 

T AnGHiNG Gas.— The following is a good recipe for making 
laol^hin- eas Two ounces of nitrate of ammonia in a retort 
havlnL a \lrse OX bladder fixed to collect the gas The process 
?sfl?st insert So the neck of the bladder a wooden pipe stop- 
cock madlof elder with the pith pushed out. Next moisten 
fhe blXer and squeeze it up to remove the air then fix it^to 
the retort conSiiniSg the ammonia. Now heat the salt with a 
SDirit amp ?t first liquefies, then boils and decomposes pro- 
dacng water (Which Remains in the retort) and the gas (which 

^£i'\sb^ toTd fht ar TnMf is: 

After which insert into the mouth the pipe attached to the bUd- 

derandSrea^^^^^^ manner a«," i^j;,';^,,7Jf^^relvs: 

Tn ono or two miuutcs, if the experiment be successful, an eiys 
frsensltlon wilHollo'w. more exquisite than can be described, 
and perfectly harmless. . « „i, 

Silvering Glass Globes.— The following is a recipe for sil- 
ver n™ass glSbes': To half an ounce of lead f^d half an ounce 
of fine tin, and melt them together in an iron ^f die ; when in a 
state of fusion, add halt an ounce of bismuth sk^im off the 
dross remove the ladle from the fire, and before it solidines 
add fi've'ounces of quicksilver, and stir the Y^ole ^f l^uS^ 
being careful not to breathe over it, as the fumes ot the quick 
silver are very iniurious. The operation should be peiformed 
uS a hooTcorimunicating with a chimnev of good d^^^^^^^ 
to carry off the vapors ; or, to four ounces of quicksilver put as 
much tinfoil as will become barely fluid when mixed Have 
the elobe clean, dry, and warm, and inject the metal oy means 
of a cleSi Ssor ekrthen pipe at the aperture, turning it about 
until it tsslJfered all over; let the remainder run out, and the 
operation is finished. 



24 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

HoAESENESS OR TICKLING IN THE Throat.— Take a small 
quantity of dry pulverized borax, place it on tlie tongue, and 
lot it slowly dissolve, and run down the throat. It is also good 
to keep the throat moist at night, and prevent coughing. 

To Cure Fkeckles.— Mix together two ounces of lemon juice, 
one drachm of pulverized borax, one half drachm of sugar: 
allow them to stand in a bottle for a few days. Bub occasion- 
ally over the face and hands. 

To Remove Stains from the Hands.— A few drops of oil 
vitrol (sulphuric acid) in water, will take the stains of fruit, 
dark^yes, stove blacking, etc., from the hands without injuring 
them. Care must, however, be taken not to drop it upon the 
clothes. It will remove the color from woolen, and eat holes 
in cotton fabrics. 

To Prepare an Invigorating Bath A tablespoonful or 

more of pulverized borax thrown into the bath-tub while bath- 
ing, will communicate a velvety softness to the water, and at 
the same time invigorate the bather. Persons troubled Avith 
nervousness or wakeful nights will find this kind of bath very 
beneficial— more so than sea-bathing. 

To Clean Silver.— Table silver should be cleaned at least 
once or twice a week, and can easily be kept in good order, and 
polished brightly. Have your dish-pan half full of boiling 
water; place the silver in so that it may become warm, then, 
with a soft cloth dipped into the hot water, soaped and sprin- 
kled with pulverized borax, scour well ; rinse in clear hot water ; 
dry with a clean, dry cloth. 

To Destroy Cockroaches, Ants and other Household 
Vermin.— Hellebore, rubbed over with molasses and put round 
the places that cockroaches frequent, is a very effectual poison 
for them. Arsenic, spread on bread and butter and placed round 
rat or mouse-holes, will soon put a stop to their ravages. 
Quicksilver and the white of an egg, beat together and laid with 
a feather round the crevices of the bedsteads and the sacking, is 
very effectual in destroying bugs in them. To kill flies, when 
so numerous as to be troublesome, keep cobalt wet with spirit 
in a large shallow plate. The spirit will attract the flies and the 
cobalt will kill them very soon. Black pepper is said to be good 
to destroy them ; it should be mixed, so as to be very strong, 
with a little cream and sugar. Great care is necessary in using 
the above poisons where there are any children, as they are so 
apt to eat anything that comes in their way, and these poisons 
will prove as' fatal to them as to vermin (excepting the pepper). 
The flour of sulphur is said to be good to drive ants away if 
sprinkled around the places that they frequent. Sage is also 
good. Weak brine will kill worms in gravel walks, if kept 
moist with it a week in the spring and three or four days in the 
fall. 

Preservatives Against the Ravages of Moths.— Moths are 
very apt to eat woolen and fur garments early in the summer. 
To keep them from the garments, take them late in the spring, 
when not worn^ and p,ut them in a chest with considerable 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 25 

^u^^ ^^^m rpdar ehim or tobacco leaves are also good for 

fuKewa?m water sufficient to wet the goods. Dip the goods in ; 
l^hlnSrlfed with it, turn the whole i^to^^i^^^^^l^^tt^'h^ 
If the goods are cotton, set the vessel on the fiie ai^a ^^'^ J^^ 
eoodllSil for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring them constantly to 
n?Pvent their spotting. Silk and woolen goods should not be 
Soiled in the dye-stufffbut it should be kept at a scalding heat 
for twenty minutes. Drain the goods ,^'ithou wringing and 
hang tKin a dry, shady place, where they ^^fj,^^^„^t^^X 
whon ArM ciPit the color bv put them into scalding not waier 

also good to set the color. 
Green and Blue Dye fob Silks' and Woolens.- For green 

of a nea^ Ts soon as the fermentation ceases, bottle it; the dye 
will be fit for Sse the next day. ^ Chemical blue ^b niade^^ ^^e 

ton goods, as the vitriol rots the threads. Wasntnearucieb 
thXe to be dyed till perfectly clean and free from color I 
you cannot extract the color by rubbing it m hot ^^f J ^^^'^3^^ 
out rinse it in soft water till entirely free from soap, as tne soap 
will ruTthe dye. To dye a pale color, put to each quart of soft 
warm wafer thlt is to be used for the dye ten drj)f ^^^^^he^^^^^^^^^^ 
composition; if you wish a deep color, more will be necessary. 
Put in the articles without crowding, and let them remain in 
S of a good color; the dye-stuff should be kept warm ; take 
the articles out without wringing, drain ^s^ much of the dye out 
of them as possible, then hang them up to dry m a shaay, airy 
Place. They should be dyed when the weather is dry , if not 
S quick they will not look nice. When Perfect y dry wash 
?hem in lukewarm suds, to keep the vitrio ^^op injuring the 
texture of the cloth. If you wish for a lively bright green, mix 
a little of the above composition with yellow dye. 

Yellow Dyes._To dye buff color, boil cqjal parts of annatto 
and conimon potash in soft, clear water. When dissolved take 
it from the fire; when cool, put in the goods, which should 



26 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

previously be washed free from spots and color ; set them on a 
moderate fire where they will keep hot till the goods are of the 
shade you wish. To dye salmon and orange color, tie annatto 
in a bag and soak it in warm soft soapsuds till it becomes soft, 
so that you can squeeze enough of it through the bag to make 
the suds a deep yellow; put in the articles, which should be 
clean and free from color; boil them till of the shade you wish. 
There should be enough of the dye to cover the goods ; stir 
them while boiling, to keep them from spotting. This dye will 
make a salmon or orange color, accordicg to the strength of it 
and the time the goods remain in. Drain them out of the dye 
and di^ them quick in the shade; when dry, wash them in soft 
soap suds. Goods dyed in this manner should never be rinsed 
in clear water. Peach leaves, fustic and saffron all make a 
good straw or lemon color, according to the strength of the 
dye. They should be steeped in fair soft water in an earthen or 
tin vessel, and then strained and the dye set with alum and a 
little gum arable dissolved in the dye, if you wish to stiffen the 
article. VVhe^ the dye-stuff is strained, steep the articles in it. 
Red Dye«-.— Madder makes a good durable red, but not a bril- 
liant color. To make dye of it, allow for half a pound of it three 
ounces of alum and one of cream of tartar and six gallons of 
water. This proportion of ingredients will make sufifieient dye 
for six or seven pounds of goods. Heat half of the water scald- 
ing hot in a clean brass kettle, then put in the alum and cream 
of tartar, and let it dissolve. When the water boils, stir the alum 
and tartar up in it, put in the goods, and let them boil a couple 
of hours, then rinse them in fair water; empty the kettle and 
put in three gallons. of water and the madder; rub it fine in the 
water, and then put in the goods, and set them where they will 
keep scalding hot for an hour, without boiling; stir them con- 
stantly. When they have been scalding an hour, increase the 
fire till they boil. Let them boil five minutes; then drain them 
out of the dye, and rinse them, without wringing, in fair water, 
and hang them in the shade, where they will dry. To dye a fine 
crimson, take for each pound of goods two and a half ounces of 
alum, an ounce and a half of white tartar; put them in a brass 
kettle, with sufficient fair water to cover your goods ; set it where 
it will boil briskly for several minutes; then put in the goods, 
which should be washed clean and rinsed in fair water. When 
the goods have boiled half an hour, take them out, without 
wringing, and hang where they will cool all over alike, without 
drying; empty out the alum and tartar water, put fresh water 
in the kettle, and for each pound of goods to be dyed put in an 
ounce of cochineal, powdered fine. Set the kettle on the fire, 
and let the water boil fifteen or twenty minutes ; then put in 
sufficient cold water to make it lukewarm, put in the goods, and 
boil them an hour and a quarter ; take them out without wring- 
ing, and dry them in a shady place. The blossoms of the Balm 
of Gilead, steeped with fair water in a vessel, then strained, will 
give silk a pretty red color. The silk should be washed clean 
and free from color, then rinsed in fair water and boiled in the 
strained dye with a small piece of alum. To dye a fine delicate 
pink, use a carmine saucer. The directions for dying come with 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 2t 

hung where they will drain and dry. 

do\h whiohVu wantto *a„ sh o^ild be washed la warm suds, 
without using soap. 
Tn Makf Soap -If you burn wood you can use your own lye 

mwmMi 

wmss4mm 
mmsMMm 

And add it to the ashes, and let it drain through. It is th^ Prac 
tice of some people, in making soap, to put the lime near me 
bottom of the ashes when they first set it up ; but the ^^^^^^ 
comes like mortar, and the lye does not ^^ through so as to 
get the strength of it. which is very important in makm| soap 
Is it contracts the nitrous salts which collect in ^^nes ana 
prevents the soap ,from coming i^s the IJ^y/Jfp^^J-d.^^fgfeasl 
are very apt to be impregnated with it. -^^nree pounufc. ui s 
should be put into a pailful of lye. The great difficulty mmak 
ing soap "comer originates in want ^^^l^^^gment about tn^ 
stfength of the lye. One rule may be ,f ff^^ ,f ^f^^™ 
lv« will bear UD an egg, or a potato, so that you can bee 'i P^«Yf 
oUhe surface as big afa shilling, it is just strong enough. If 



28 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

it sink below the top of the lye, it is too wealc, and will never 
make soap; if it is buoyed up half way, the lye is too strong; 
and that is just as bad, A bit of quick-lime, thrown in while 
the lye and grease are boiling together, is of sei-viee. When the 
soap becomes thick and ropy, carry it down cellar in pails and 
empty it into a barrel. Cold soap is less trouble, because it does 
not need to boil ; the sun does the work of fire. The lye must 
be prepared and tried in the usual way. The grease must be 
tried out, and strained from the scraps. Two pounds of grease 
(instead of three) must be used to a pailful ; unless the weather 
is very sultry, the lye should be hot when put to the grease. It 
should stand in the sun, and be stirred every day. If it does 
not begin to look like soap in the course of live or six days, add 
a little hot lye to it; if this does not help it, try whether it be 
grease that it wants. Perhaps you will think cold soap waste- 
ful, because the grease must be strained ; but if the scraps are 
boiled thoroughly in strong lye, the grease will all float upon the 
surface, and nothing be lost. 

Batbekry, or Myrtle Soap. -Dissolve two pounds and a 
quarter of white potash in Ave quarts of water, then mix it with 
ten pounds of myrtle wax, or bayberry tallow. Boil the whole 
over a slow fire, till it turns to soap, then add a teacup of cold 
water — let it boil ten minutes longer— at the end of that time 
turn it Into tin molds, or pans, and let them remain a week or 
ten days to dry, then turn them out of the molds. If you wish 
to have the soap scented, stir into it any essential oil that has 
an agreeable smell, just before you turn it into the molds. 
This kind of soap is excellent for shaving, and chapped hands 
«— itis also good for eruptions on the face. It will be fit for use 
in the course of three or four weeks after it is made, but it is 
^better for being kept ten or twelve months. 

Soap from Scraps.— Dissolve eighteen pounds of potash in 
three pailfuls of water; then add to it twenty-flve pounds of 
grease, and boil it over a slow fire for a couple of hours. Turn 
it into a barrel, and fill it up with water. 

OoLD Soap. — Heat twenty-six pounds of strained grease. 
When melted, mix it with four pailfuls of lye, made of twenty 
pounds of white potash. Let the whole stand in the sun, stir- 
ring it frequently. In the course of a week, fill the barrel with 
weak lye. This method of making soap is much easier than to 
make a lye of your ashes, while it is as cheap, if you sell your 
ashes to the soap-boiler. 

Hard Soap.— Dissolve twenty weight of white potash in three 
pailfuls of water. Heat twenty pounds of strained grease, then 
mix it with the dissolved potash? and boil them together till the 
whole becomes a thick jelly, which is ascertained by taking a 
little of it out to get cold. Take it from the fire, stir in cold 
water till it grows thin, then put to each pailful of soap a pint 
of blown salt— stir it in well. The succeeding day, separate It 
from the lye, and heat it over a slow fire. Let it boil a quarter 
of an hour, then take it from the fire. If you wish to have it a 
yellow color, put it in a little palm oil, and turn it out into wood- 



MOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 29 

en vessels. When cold, separate it again f ;0m the lye and cut 
it in bars-let them remain in the sun several days to dry. 

WiNDSOB AND Castile Soap.-To ^^^ke the Celebrated Wind- 
sor^soap, nothing more is necessary than to slice the best white 
soan as thin as possible, and melt it over a slow Are. lai^e ^V 
from the fire wh^en melted, and when it is just lukewarm add 
enough of the oil of caraway to scent it. If any pther fragrant 
o?Hs Uked better, it may be substituted Turn ^t into molds 
and let it remain in a dry situation for five or .l'^^^%^'.^Ji 
make Castile soap, boil common soft soap in lamp oil three 
hours and a half. 

Shaving Soap.-A very nice soap for shaving may be made 
by mISug a quarter of a pound of Castile soap one cake of old 
Windsor soan a gill of lavender water, the same of Cologne 
wa?er!andaP^Jer/little alcohol. Boil all these together, until 
thoroughly mixed. 

• How TO Wash Flannels. -There are many conflicting theori^ 
In rfte-ard to the proper way to wash flannels, but 1 am 
convtfced. f?om ca?efu^l obsef ation, that the true w is to 
wnc;h thftni in water in which you can comfortably bear your 
hand. ' M^ki sudfbefore puttin|the flannels in, and do not rub 
^nfl n on the flannel. I make it a rule to have only one piece ot 
Sel put in the tub at a time. Wash in two suds if much 
soUed- tCn rinse thoroughly in clean, weak suds, wring and 
Tang up ; but do not take flannels out of warm water and hang 
SS?fn a freezing air, as that certainly tends t^ ^^rink thm. I 
is better to drv them in the house, unless the sun snines. iii 
wasKworS goods, such as men's pantaloons, pursue the 
Tme ?fuTse ; on/do not wring them but ^a^g them up and let 
them drain: while a little damp, bring them m and press 
smTothly with as hot an iron as you can ^^^ without scorchm^^^ 
the goods. The reason for not wringing them is to prevent 
wrinkles. 

How TO Make an Ottoman.-A neat and useful ottoman may 
be m^de byteking a box in which fine-cut tobacco is packed 
and cohering It #ith cretonne. The top may be taken off and 

onwfthoui difficulty if, after ^o^^^^P^' ,\^';^[Xs ToS is^^ 
over the edge is tacked on. An ottoman of this sort is con 
?enient in the bedroom, where it may ^^n-e as a receptacle for 
stockings. If one does not care to buy cretonne, bits of carpet 
may be used for the covering. Burlap also makes a pretty 
cover, worked in some simple but showy pattern. 

How TO Make Fuenituke Covers.- Pretty furniture that is 
used every day must be protected in some way and there are 
many coverings which are really ornamental. Foi ytanoe a 
couch may be kept from fading by. taking a p ece o lurkish 
toweling the required length-that is, ^^ l^ttl^, S down and 
couch, fo that it will fall over the ends, and not slide down and 
wrinRie; put scallops of.flanne on. the edge A bo^^^^^^^ 
center-piece, or simply a vine worked in f.^^^^^g^^.S a^^^^^^ 
the ends, makes a pretty addition to it. .Jldies that are very 
serviceable may be made of brown linen with an applique stnpe 



30 ttOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

of cretonne flowers. The easiest and most satisfactory way to 
prepare cretonne for transferring is to first work the figure which 
Is to be cut out with the button-hole stitch, and then cut around 
that. When it is placed upon broadcloth, or any material which 
will not require washing, sew it with long stitches on the wrong 
side ; but when transferring to the linen, sew it firmly, so that 
it will keep its place when washed. The tidies may be finished 
by putting fringe or yellow lace across the ends ; turn down and 
hem on the sides, and feather-stitch with worsted or working 
cotton or silk. 

CANDIES. 

Cocoa-nut Candy. — Grate very fine a sound cocoa-nut, 
spread it on a dish, and let it dry naturally for three days, as it 
will not bear the heat of an oven, and is too oily for use when 
freshly broken. Four ounces wUl be sufficient for a pound of 
sugar for most tastes, but more .can be used at pleasure. To 
one pound of sugar take one half-pint of water, a very little 
white of egg, and then pour over the sugar ; let it stand for a 
short time, then place over a very clear fire, and let it boil for a 
few minutes, then set it one side untU the scum is subsided, 
clear it off, anS boil the sugar until very thick, then strew in 
the nut, stir and mix it well, and do not quit for an instant until 
it is finished. The pan should not be placed on the fire; but 
over it, as the nut is liable to burn with too fierce a heat. 

Almond Candy. — Proceed in the same way as for cocoa-nut 
candy. Let the almonds be perfectly dry, and do not throw 
them into the sugar until they approach the candying point. 

To Candy Nuts. — Three cups of sugar, one cup of water; 
boil until it hardens when dropped in water, then fiavor with 
lemon. It must not boil after the lemon is put in. Put a nut 
on the end of a fine knitting-needle, take out and turn on the 
needle until it is cool. If the candy gets cold, set on the stove 
for a few minutes. Malaga grapes and oranges, quartered, may 
be candied in the same way. 

Chocolate Cakamels.— Take of grated chocolate, milk, mo- 
lasses, and sugar, each one cupful, and a jneceof butter the size 
of an egg; boil until it will haiden when dropped into cold 
walet ; add vanilla ; put in a buttered pan, and before it cools 
mark off in square blocks. 

Chocolate Caramels, No. 2.— One-half pound of grated 
chocolate, two teacups of sugar, one-half cup of milk and water, 
a lump of butter, a teaspoon of alum. 

Sugar-Candy. — Six cups of white sugar, one cup of vinegar, 
one cup of water, a tablespoonful of butter put In at the last, 
with one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water. Boil with- 
out stirring one-half hour. Flavor to suit the taste. 

Cream Candy.— Four cups of sugar, two cups of water, three- 
fourths of a cup of vinegar, one cup of cream or rich milk, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, a 
pinch of soda. Let it boil until it cracks in water, then work 
very white. 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 31 

Maple CANDT.—Four cups of maple syrup, boil until it cracks 
in water, and, just before taking from the fire put in a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. If preferred waxy, do not let it cook 
80 long. 

BuTTEB Scotch.— One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of butter. Boil until done. 

Peppebmint Dbops.— Pour half a cupful of boiling water on 
two cupfuls of granulated sugar; boil for five minutes stir in a 
tablespoonful of essence of peppermint, and stir over the fire ill 
thick, and then drop from a spoon upon buttered paper and iei 
them harden. 

Molasses Candy.— Two quarts of West India molasses, one 
Dound of brown sugar, the juice of two large lemons, or a tea- 
spoonful of strong elsence of lemon. Mix together the molasses 
and sugar, takini care to use West India molasses, which, for 
this purpose, is much the best. Put the mixture into a preserv- 
ing-kettle, and boil it for three hours over a moderate fire 
When it is thoroughly done, it will of itself cease boiling. If 
sufftciently boiled it will be crisp and brittle when cold. If not 
boiled enough, it will never congeal, but will be tough and ropy, 
and must be^ boiled over again. While boiling stir it frequently 
and take care that it does not burn. After it has boiled about 
two hours and a half, stir in the lemon juice or essence of 
lemon. It will be improved by adding he yellow nnd of the 
lemon, grated so fine as not to be visible when boiled. If the 
lemon is put in too soon, all the taste will be boiled out When 
it is quite done, butter a square pan and pour the mixture into 
it to cool. If you prefer the candy with ground-nuts, roast a 
quart of them, and then shell and blanch them. Stir the ground- 
nuts into the mixture a few minutes before you take it from the 
fire Stir them in gradually. In the same manner you may 
make it with almonds. The almonds must be blanched, cut 
in pieces, and stirred in raw, when the molasses and sugar 
have just done boiling. If you wish to make it yellow, take 
some from the pan while it is yet warm, and pull it out into a 
thick string between the thumb and fore-finger of both hands 
Extend your arms widely as you pull the candy backwards and 
forwards. By repeating this for a long time it will gradually 
become of a light yellow color and of a spongy consistence. 
When it is quite yellow, roll it into sticks ; twist two sticks 
together, and cut them off smoothly at both ends. Or you may 
variegate it by twisting together a stick that is quite yellow and 
one that, not having been so much pulled, still remains brown. 

WINES, ETC. 

Mulled Wine.— Boil a pint of wine with nutmeg, cloves, and 
sugar, serve it with slices of toasted bread, or beat up the 
yolks of four eggs with a little cold wine, and mix them care- 
fuUv with the hot wine, pour it backward and forward till it 
looks fine, heat it again over the fire till it is tolerably thick 
pour it backward and forward, and serve with .toasted bread 
as above ; or boil some spice in a little water till the flavor m 



32 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

extracted, then add a pint of port wine, with some sugar and 
nutmeg. 

OoMMON Beee.— Two gallons of water to a large handful of 
hops is the rule. A little fresh-gathered spruce or sweet fern 
makes the beer more agreeable, and you may allow a quart of 
wheat bran to the mixture; then boil it two or three hours. 
Strain it through a sieve, and stir in, while the liquor is hot, a 
teacup of molasses to every gallon. Let it stand till lukewarm, 
pour it into a clean barrel, and add good yeast, a pint, if the 
barrel is nearly full ; shake it well together ; it will be fit for use 
the «ext day. 

Spruce Beer Allow an ounce of hops and a spoonful of 

ginger to a gallon of water. When well boiled, strain it, and 
put in a pint of molasses, and haif an ounce or less of the es- 
sence of spruce ; when cool, add a teacup of yeast, and put 
into a clean tight cask, and let it ferment for a day or two, then 
bottle it for use. You can boil the sprigs of spruce fir in room of 
the essence. 

Ginger Beer Quickly Made.~A gallon of boiling water is 
poured over three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, one ounce 
of ginger, and the peel of one lemon ; when milk- warm, the 

f'uice of the l«mon and a spoonful of yeast are added. It should 
)e made in the evening, and bottled next morning, in stone 
bottles, and the cork tied down with twine. Good brown sugar 
will answer, and the lemon may be omitted, if cheapness is re- 
quired. 

Lemonade.— Three lemons to a pint of water makes strong 
lemonade ; sweeten to your taste. This is the best beverage for 
parties : cool, refreshing, pleasant and salubrious. 

Oeangeade Roll and press the juice from the oranges in the 

same way as from lemons. It requires less sugar than lemon- 
ade. The water must be pure and cold, and then there can be 
nothing more delicious than these two kinds of drink. 

Currant Wine.- -Break and squeeze the currants, put three 
pounds and a half of sugar to two quarts of juice and two quarts 
of water. Put it in a keg or barrel. Do not close the bung 
tight for three or four days, that the air may escape while It is 
fermenting. After it is done fermenting, close it up tight. 
Where raspberries are plenty, it is a great improvement to use 
half raspberry juice and half currant juice. Brandy is un- 
necessary when the above-mentioned proportions are ob- 
served. It should not be used under a year or two. Age im- 
proves it. 

Ginger Beer.— Put into a kettle two ounces of powdered gin- 
ger (or more if it is not very strong), half an ounce of cream of 
tartar, two large lemons cut in slices, two pounds of broken 
loaf-sugar, and one gallon of soft water. Simmer them over a 
slow fire for half an hour. When the liquor is nearlv cold, stir 
into it a laige tablespoonful of the best yeast. After it has fer- 
mented bottle for use. 

CiDB»,— To keep cider sweet allow it to work uatU it hai» 

r. 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 33 

reached the state most desirable to the taste, then add one and 
a half tumblers grated horse-radish to each barrel, and shake up 
well. This arrests further fermentation. After remaining a 
few weeks rack off and bung up closely in clean casks. 

Raspbeeey Vinegar.— It is best made by putting carefully- 
gathered and very ripe raspberries into jars, and, when as full 
as they will hold of the fruit, fill up the jars with good vinegar. 
After eight or ten days the vinegar is poured off, and the fruit 
allowed to drain for some hours. The mixture of vinegar and 
juice thus obtained is added to another quantity of fruit and 
"treated in the same way. This is sometimes repeated a third 
time, and then the liquid is gently boiled for about five minutes 
with its own weight of good sugar. Added to water it makes a 
most refreshing summer drink, and is of much use as a cooling' 
beverage in sickness. 

Peppeemint Coediai..— Take thirteen gallons of rectified 
spirit, one in five under hydrometer proof, twelve pounds 
of loaf-sugai, one pint of spirit of wine that will fire gun- 
powder, fifteen pennyweights of oil of peppermint, and as 
much water as will fill up the cask, which should be set on end 
after the whole has been well roused. Enough for twenty gal- 
lons. 

Geape "Wine.— Put tAventy pounds of ripe, well-selected, fresh- 
picked grapes into a stone jar, and pour on them six quarts of 
boiling water. When the water has become sufficiently cool, 
squeeze the grapes well with the hand ; cover the jar with a 
cloth, and let it stand for three days : then press out' the juice, 
and add ten pounds of crushed sugar. After it has stood' for a 
week, skim, strain, and bottle it, corking it loosely. When 
the fermentation is complete, strain it again and bottle it, cork- 
ing lightly. Lay the bottles on their sides in a cool place. 

GiNQEE Wine. — Boil together for one hour nine gallons of 
water, twenty-seven pounds of sugar, the rinds of nine 
lemons, and twelve ounces of bruised ginger; remove the 
scum as it rises, and when sufficiently boiled put it into 
a large tub or pan, as it must not remain in the cop- 
per. When nearly cold, add three tablespoonfuls of yeast; 
the next day put all in a dry cask with the strained lemon-juico 
and two pounds of chopped raisins ; stir the wine every day for 
a fortnight, then add the brandy, and stop the cask down by 
degrees, and in a few weeks it will be fit to bottle. 

Speuce Beee, No. 2.— Take four ounces of hops, boil half an 
hour in one gallon of water, strain it, add sixteen gallons ot 
warm water, two gallons of molasses, eight ounces of essence 
of spruce, dissolved in one -quart of water ; put it in a clean 
cask, shake it well together, add a half pint of yeast, let it stand 
and work one week; If warm weather, less time will do. 
When drawn off, add one spoonful of molasses to each bottle. 

Cottage Beee.— Take a peck of good wheat bran, and put it 
into ten gallons of water, with three handfuls of good hops, and 
boil the whole together until the bran and hops sink to the bot- 
tom, Then strata it through a hair sieve, or a thia cloth, into 



34 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

a cooler, and when it is about lukewarm add two quarts of mo- 
lasses. As soon as the molasses is melted, pour the whole into 
a ten-gallon cask, with two tablespoonfuls of yeast. When the 
fermentation has subsided, bung up the cask, and in four days 
it will be ready to use. 

Elderbekky Wine.— Take one quart of pure elderberry juice, 
two quarts of water, three pounds sugar (the best sugar for 
this purpose is what we call molasses sugar, viz., sugar that 
settles from molasses into the bottom of hogsheads ;) mix all to- 
gether, and let it ferment until it works itself clear; strain 
and little; leave the bottles uncorked until it is done working, 
then cork and put away in a cellar, and in a few months you 
will have good wine, but age will improve it. 

Eldebberry Wine No. 2.— Boil three gallons of elderberries in 
two and one halt gallons of water for twenty minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve, not bruising the berries ; then measure 
the liquid into a boiler, and to every quart add one pound of 
moist sugar and the peel of four lemons; place on fire and 
heat scalding hot; add the whites of four eggs, well beaten, stir- 
ring into the liquid. . When the liquor is cool place it in a keg ; 
place a piece of toasted bread, spread with compressed yeast 
as you would butter, in the keg ; bung the keg air-tight ; a quar- 
ter of a pound of bruised ginger placed in a keg gives the wine 
a line flavor ; let it remain in the keg from six to eight weeks, 
when it will be ready to bottle. 

Household Beer.— Two gallons of water, two pounds of 
treacle, one ounce of hops, one ounce of ginger bruised, one 
ounce of linseed. Boil all together for two hours, then strain 
and cover with a thick cloth. When lukewarm, add a quarter 
of a pound of yeast; cover again for twenty-four hours, and 
then bottle it in porter bottles. 

Eau de Cologne.— Alcohol at eighty-five degrees, ten quarts ; 
essence of neroli, two drachms; essence of rosemary, ten 
drachms ; essence of lavender, five drachms ; essence of thyme, 
one drachm ; essence cf lemon, three ounces; tincture of ben- 
zoin, two drachms ; rose water, one pint ; essence of bergamot, 
five ounces. 

Ginger Beer.— Pour three gallons of boiling water on two 
and a half pounds of preserving sugar, three ounces of bruised 
ginger, and four lemons cut in very thin slices. Let it stand 
till nearly cold, then add a dessertspoonful of brewers' yeast 
spread on toast. Let it stand all night, then strain and bottle. 
Another way is to take one pound of sugar, one ounce of ginger, 
half an ounce of carbonate of soda, half an ounce of tartaric 
acid, and a quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar. Well pound 
the ginger, put all into an earthen vessel, add a gallon of water 
not quite boiling; let it stand till cold, then put a tablespoonfiil 
of barm on toast, and let it stand till the next day. Bottle it, 
and lay it down for two days, when it will be ready for use. 

Blackberry Cordial. — Warm and squeeze the berries ; add 
to one pint -of juice one pound of white sugar, one-half ounce 
of powdered cinnamon, one-fourth ounce of mace, two toa- 



HOW TO KmP HOUSE. 36 

spoonfuls of cloves. Boil all together for one-fourth of an hour ; 
strain the syrup, and to each pint add a glass of French brandy. 
Two or three doses of a tablespoonful or less will check any 
slight diarrhea. When the attaclc is violent, give a tablespoon- 
ful after each discharge until the complaint is in subjection. It 
will arrest dysentery if given in season, and is a pleasant and 
safe remedy. 

Blackbeeey Wine.— To one gallon of mashed berries add one 
quart of boiling water, and let it stand twenty-four hours : then 
strain them, and to every gallon of juice add three pounds of 
brown sugar. Put in a jug or demijohn, and cover with a thin 
piece of muslin until October; then bottle it off. 

Wine Whey. — Sweeten one pint of milk to taste, and when 
boiling throw in two wineglasses of sherry; when the curd 
forms, strain the whey through a muslin bag into tumblers. 

Blackbeeey Syeup.— One quart of blackberry juice, one 
pound of sugar, one-half ounce of nutmeg, one-half ounce of 
cinnamon, one-fourth of an ounce of cloves, one-fourth of an 
ounce of allspice. 

Roman Punch.— Two quarts of cold w^ater, one of Madeira 
wine, half a pint of brandy, the juice of six lemons, and two 
quarts of sugar. This is very hard to freeze. In winter use 
snow instead of ice. 

Sage Wine.— Boil twenty-six quarts of spring water a quar- 
ter of an hour, and when it is blood-warm, put twenty-five 
pounds of Malaga raisins, picked, rubbed and shred, into it, 
with almost half a bushel of red sage shred, and half a pint of 
ale yeast ; stir all well together, and let it stand in a tub, cov- 
ered warm, six or seven days, stirring it once aday ; then strain 
it off, and put it in a cask. Let it work three or four days, and 
then stop it up. When it has stood six or seven days, put in a 
quart or two of Malaga sack, and when it is fine, bottle it. 

BiECH Beee.— Take four ounces of hops, boil half an hour in 
one gallon of water, strain it, add sixteen gallons of warm water, 
two gallons of molasses, eight ounces of essence of birch, dis- 
solved in one quart of water; put in a clean cask, shake it 
well together ; add a half pint of yeast, let it stand and work 
one week ; if warm weather less time will do. When drawn off', 
add one spoonful of molasses to each bottle. 

SuGAE Beee. — Take one and a half pounds of hops, and boil 
in thirty-six gallons of water for an hour; then add fourteen 
pounds of dark brown sugar, and a little yeast to work it ; fer- 
ment and bottle. 

ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS. 

The following list gives some of the more common poisons 
and the remedies most likely to be on hand in case of need. 

Acids These cause great heat and sensation of burning pain 

from the mouth down to the stomach. Remedies : Magnesia, 
soda, pearl ash, or soap dissolved in water ; then use stomach- 
pump, or emetic. 



36 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

Alkali.— Best remedy is vinegar. 

Ammonia.— Remedy, lemon juice, or vinegar. 

Alcohol.— First cleanse out the stomach by an emetic, then 
dash cold water on the head, and give ammonia (spirits of 
hartshorn). 

Arsenic— Remedies : In the first place, evacuate the stomach, 
then give the white of eggs, lime water, or chalk and water, 
charcoal, and the preparation of iron, particularly hydrate. 

Laudanum.— Same as opium. 

BaLLADONNA.— Give emetics, and then plenty of vinegar and 
water, or lemonade. 

MoEPHiNE.— Same as opium. 

Charcoal. — In poisons by carbonic gas, remove the patient 
to the open air, dash cold water on the head and body, and 
stimulate the nostrils and lungs with hartshorn, at the same 
time rubbing the chest briskly. 

Corrosive Sublimate.— Give white of egg freshly mixed 
with water, or give wheat flour and water, or soap and water 
freely, or salt and water. 

Creosote. — White of eggs and emetics. 

Lead.— White lead and sugar of lead. Remedies: alum; 
cathartics, such as castor-oil and epsom salts, especially. 

Mushrooms When Poisonous.— Give emetics, and then 
plenty of vinegar and water, with doses of ether, if handy. 

Nitrate of Silver (Lunar Caustic).— Give a strong solu- 
tion of common salt, and then emetics. 

Opium.— First give a strong emetic of mustard and water, 
then strong coflee and acid drinks; dash cold water on the 
head. 

Nux Vomica.— First emetics and then brandy. 

Oxalic Acid.— (Frequently mistaken for epsom salts.) Rem- 
edies : chalk, magnesia, or soap and water, and other soothing 
drinks. 

Prussic Acid. — When there is time administer chlorine in the 
shape of soda and lime. Hot brandy and water, hartshorn, and 
turpentine are also useful. 

Snake Bite, Etc.— Apply immediately strong hartshorn, and 
take it internally; also give sweet oil and stimulants freely; 
apply a ligature tightly over the part bitten, and then apply a 
cupping-glass. 

Tartar Emetic— Take large doses of tea made of galls, Pe- 
ruvian bark, or white-oak bark. 

Verdigris.- Plenty of whites of eggs and water. 

White Vitriol.— Give the patient plenty of milk and water. 

A Cure for Whisky-Drinkers.— Sulphate of iron five grains, 
magnesia ten grains, peppermint water eleven draohms, spirit 
of nutmeg one drachm ; twice a day. 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 37 

To Renew BiAcS: Cashmeee.— Take half a pint of ammonia 
and enougli tepid water to dip the breadths and pieces in 
thoroughly up and down, after which hang on the line to drip 
and dry partially without wringing; then iron dry on wrong 
side, when it will look like new. 

To Wash Black Cashmeee.— Take hard soap-suds, wash 
your goods thoroughly, and after you have rinsed them in warm 
water, rinse them in warm coffee, with a teaspoonful of gum 
arable water to every pound of goods ; take a piece of dark 
flannel or place a layer of flannel and then one of the goods, 
and so oi^ until you have finished, then roll up tight and leave 
until morning, then iron on the wrong side. You can also wash 
soiled velvet in this way. 

To Polish Shiet Feonts and Weistbands.— Starch the 
fronts and wristbands as stiff as you can. Starch twice— that is, 
starch dry ; then starch again. Iron your shirt with a box^-iron, in 
the usual way, making the linen nice and firm, but without any 
attempt at a good finish ; don't lift the plaits ; your shirt is now 
ready for polishing, but you ought to have a board same size as 
a common shirt-board, made of hard vi'ood, and covered with 
only one ply of plain cotton cloth. Put this board into the 
breast of your shirt, damp the front very lightly with a wet 
sponge, then take the polishing-iron, which is flat and beveled 
at one end — polish gently with the beveled end, taking care not 
to drive the linen up into wave-like blisters. Of course this 
requires a little practice, but if you are careful and persevere, 
in a short time you will be able to give the enamel-like finish 
which is so much wanted. 

To Clean Steaw- Matting. — Wash with a cloth dipped in 
clean salt and water. Take care to wipe dry, as this prevents 
its turning yellow. Tar may be removed from either Hands or 
clothing by rubbing well with lard and then washing well with 
soap and water. 

A SuEE Way to Remove Tea Stains.— Mix thoroughly 
soft soap and salt— say a tablespoonful to a teacup of soap ; rub 
on the spots, and spread the cloth on the grass where the sun 
will shine on it. Let it lay two or three days ; then wash. If 
the stain is not all out, it will disappear in the second washing. 
If the spots are wet occasionally while lying on the grass, it will 
hasten the bleaching. \ 

Home-made Camphor- Ice.— Melt half a teacupful of mutton 
tallow with a piece of camphor gum, the size of a large 
hickory-nut; pour into a little cup or mold. 

Home-made Haed Soap.— Were the good qualities of this in- 
expensive soap more generally known, no family would go 
without it. It is valuable for washing clothes, making them 
very clean and white, without in the least injuring them, and is 
excellent for flannels and calicoes. It is good also for the 
hands, making them soft and smooth. Take six pounds each of 
sal- soda and lard, three pounds of stone lime, four gallons of 
soft water ; dissolve the lime and soda in the water, stirring. 



38 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

settling, and pouring off, then return to the kettle, using brass 
or copper ; add the lard and boil until it becomes soap, then 
pour into a tub; when cold, cut in bars and dry. 

A Beautiful Whitewash.— To Ave gallons of whitewash 
made of well-burned white lime, add a quarter of a pound of 
whiting, half a pound of loaf sugar, one quart and a half of rice 
flour, made into a thin and well-cooked paste, and half a pound 
of white glue dissolved in water ; apply warm ; previously 
scrape off all old scaly whitewash ; this is like kalsomine, and 
gives a brilliant and lasting effect. 

CfenMAN Silver. — 1. Common German silver : Copper, eight ; 
nickel, two; zinc, three and a half. This is the commonest 
that can be made with any regard to the quality of the article 
produced. It might do for common purposes. If the quantity 
of nickel be reduced much below this, the alloy will be little 
better than pale brass, and tarnish rapidly. 2. Good German 
silver: Copper, eight; nickel, three; zinc, three and a half. 
This is a very beautiful compound. It has the appearance of 
silver a little below standard ; by some persons it is even pre- 
ferred to the more expensive compound. We strongly recom- 
mend manufacturers not to use a metal inferior to this. 3. 
Electrum : Copper, eight; nickel, four; zinc, three and a half. 
This is a compound which, for ease of working and beauty of 
appearance, is to be preferred to all others by the manufacturer, 
and is generally preferred by the public. 'It has a shade of 
blue, like very highly polished silver ; it tarnishes less easily 
than silver. Nickel: Copper, eight; nickel, six; zinc, three and 
a half. This is the richest in nickel that can be made without 
Injuring the mechanical properties of the metal. It is a very 
beautiful compound, but requires a higher heat for fusion than 
the preceding, and will be found rather more difficult to work. 
Tutenag : Copper, eight ; nickel, three ; zinc, four and a half. 
These properties were obtained by the analysis of a piece of 
Chinese tutenag of the best ordinary quality; but some of the 
specimens of Chinese tutenag are equal to the electrum. No. 3, 
but these are very rare. This alloy is very fusible, but very 
hard, and not easily rolled ; it is the best adapted for casting. 

Shades.— Scarlet hoUand shades, trimmed across the ends 
with antique lace, are very pretty and serviceable for a dining- 
room, giving a soft and warm light to the room. 

How TO Make Sceap-Bags,— It is a good plan to have pretty 
scrap-bags in sitting-room, bedroom, and dining-room, and to 
hang one near the sewing- machine. They may be ornamental, 
and are certainly useful. Since trying this I have saved paper 
rags enough to buy all the new tinware needed in the house, 
aad have occasionally bought a broom also. Every bit of cloth, 
every postal card and circular, that w^ould otherwise have been 
put into the stove as not being worth the trouble of a walk to 
the regular rag-bag, finds its way into the little scrap-bag. 
Pretty bags are made of perforated paper, with a simple vine 
worked around the top, the bottom of the bag being of silk or 
merino, and the top finished with a crocheted scallop ; or they 
may be made of Java canvas, with wire around the top to keep 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 39 

it in shape ; a piece of old hoop-skirt may be used for this pur- 
pose. 

How TO Sew ON Buttons When sewing buttons on children's 

clothes where there will be much strain on the button, the dan- 
ger of tearing the cloth out will be greatly lessened by putting a 
small button directly under the larger outside button. This ap- 
plies, of course, only to buttons with holes through them. 

How TO Make New Fringe Out or Old.— Cretonne table 
covers and mantel lambrequins may be finished with fringe of 
which almost eveiy one has a supply. The worsted dress fringe 
so much worn a year or two ago can now be made use of. It is 
also serviceable as a finish to mats made of burlap. If the fringe * 
is dark-colored, it may be brightened by tying in lengths of gay 
worsted. 

How TO Clean Tin-wabe.— Do not set apart one day on which 
to clean your silver or scour your tin- ware ; there is danger of 
its not being done at all. Have your cleaning material ready, 
and when you are " doing up " the dishes after each meal, clean 
and polish the silver or tin you have been using. This is a good 
habit to cultivate. 

Weights and Measures.— Every family should be furnished 
with scales and weights; and it is also advisable to have 
wooden measures. Two gills make half a pint; two pints 
make one quart; four quarts make one gallon; half gallon 
makes a quarter of a peck ; one gallon makes hi>lf a peck ; two 
gallons make one peck ; four gallons make half a bushel ; eight 
gallons make one bushel. About sixty drops of any thin liquid 
will fill a common-sized teaspoon ; four tablespoonf uls, or half a 
gill, will fill a common-sized wine-glass; four -wine-glasses 
will fill half a pint measure, a common tnmbler, or a large cof- 
fee-cup. Ten eggs usually weigh one pound before they are 
broken ; eight larg3 ones will weigh one pound ; a tablespoon- 
ful of salt will weigh about one ounce ; one pint of water or 
milk will weigh one pound ; one pint of molassos will weigh 
one and one-quarter pounds ; three teaspoonfuls of baking-pow- 
der should weigh one ounce ; one quart of flour weighs one 
pound; one quart of Indian-meal weighs one and a quarter 
pounds. 

To Gild Picture-Frames.— The surface of the gilt must be 
carefully covered with a strong size, made by boiling down 
pieces of white leather or clippings of parchment, till they are 
reduced to a strong jelly. This coating being dried, eight or 
ten more must be applied, the size being mixed with a small 
quantity of whiting. The last coat is composed of screened 
massicot, or sometimes yellow ochre. Let it dry thoroughly, 
and then damp the surface a little at the time with a damp 
sponge, and apply the gold-leaf before this dries. It will imme- 
diately adhere, and when dry, those parts which are to be bril- 
liant are to be burnished with an agate or dog's-tooth burnisher. 

To Raise the Nap on Cloth When woolens are worn 

threadbare, as is often the case in elbows, sleeves, cuffs, etc, of 
men's coats, the coats must be soa_ked in cold water for half an 



40 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

hour, then taken out of the water, and put on a board, and the 
threadbare part of the cloth rubbed with a half- worn hatter'is 
" card," filled with hocks, or with a prickly thistle, until a suf- 
ficient nap is raised. When this is done, hang the coat up to 
dry, and with a hard brush lay the nap the right way. This is 
the method which is pursued by the dealers in old clothes. 

SiLVEEED Looking- Glasses.— Take a sheet of tin-foil and 
spread it upon the table ; then rub mercury upon it with a hare's 
foot till the two metals incorporate. Lay|the plate of glass upon 
it, and load it with weights, which will have the effect of press- 
ing«out the excess of mercury that was applied to the tin-foil. 
In a few hours the tin-foil will adhere to the glass and convert 
it into a mirror. About two ounces of mercury are suflacient for 
covering three square feet of glass. 

To Clean Steel and Ikon.— One ounce of soft soap; two 
ounces of emery, made into a paste ; then rub the article for 
cleaning with wash-leather, and it will give a brilliant polish. 

Sauce Piqu ante.— Brown lightly in an ounce and a half of 
butter a tablespoonful of eschalots ; add a teaspoonful of flour 
when they are partially done ; pour to them half a pint of gravy 
or good broth, and when it boils add three chilies, a bay-leaf, 
and a very small bunch of thyme. Let these simmer for twenty 
minutes ; take out the thyme and bay-leaf, add a high season* 
ing of black pepper and half a wine-glassful of the best vinegar. 

To Clean Gold Powder some whiting, and make it into a 

moist paste with some sal volatile. Cover over the gold orna- 
ments and surface with a soft brush, let it dry, and then brush 
it off with a moderately hard brush. 

Iron Rust.— This may be removed by salt mixed with a little 
lemon juice ; put in the sun ; if necessary, use two applications. 

Mildew. — Dip the stained cloth in buttermilk, and lay In the 
sun. 

Cheap Refeigerators. — A flower-pot wrapped in a wet cloth 
and placed over a butter plate will keep the contents of the 
plate as hard and firm as if they were set on ice ; and milk will 
not sour if the can containing it be wrapped in a wet cloth. 

To Mend Broken Crockery.— We have used lime and the 
white of an egg for mending earthenware, and find it most sat- 
isfactory. It is a strong cement, easily applied, and generally 
at hand. Mix only enough to mend one article at a time, as it 
soon hardens, when it cannot be used. Powder a small quan- 
tity of the lime, and mix to a paste with the white. Apply 
quickly to the edges, and place firmly together. It will soon 
become set and strong, seldom breaking in the same i^lace 
again. 

How to Clean a Tea or Coffee Pot.— If the inside of your 
tea or coffee pot is black from long use, fill it with water, throw 
in a piece of hard soap, set on the stove, and let it boil from 
half an hour to an hour. It will clean as bright as a new dollar, 
an(^ cost no work, 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 41 

Tinned Waee Tinned ware which speedily loses its bright- 
ness should be distrusted. It usually contains lead, which is 
dissolved by very feeble acids, and is very poisonous. Iodide 
of potassium is the antidote. 

^OLiAN Harp.— An ffiolian harp is composed of a rectangular 
box, made of thin boards, about five inches deep and six inches 
wide, and the proper length to fit across the window in which 
it is to be placed. At the top of each end of the box is glued a 
strip of wood about half an inch in height. These strips serve 
as a bridge for the strings, which are stretched lengthwise 
across the top of the box. The strings should be of cat-gut or 
wire, tuned in unison by means of pegs constructed to control 
their tension, as in the violin. The instrument is simply placed 
in a window, partly open, so as to allow a current of air to pass 
over the strings, thus producing a combination in tones con- 
stantly varying in pitch and intensity with the force of the wind. 

Red Ants. — To exterminate red ants, grease a plate with lard 
and set it where the insects abound. They prefer lard to any- 
thing else, and will forsake sugar for it. Place a few sticks 
around the plate for the ants to climb up on. Occasionally 
turn the plate bottom up over the fire, and the ants will fall in 
with the melted lard. Reset the plate, and in a short time you 
will catch them all. Powdered borax sprinkled around the in- 
fested places will exterminate both red and black ants. 

How TO Clean Maeble.— The following is an excellent way of 
cleaning marble : First, brush the dust off the piece to be clean- 
ed, then apply with a brush a good coat of gum arable ; expose 
it to tne sun to dry. In a short time it will crack and peel off. 
If all the gum shouldnot peel off, wash it with clean water and 
a cloth. If the first application does not have the desired effect, 
it should be applied again. 

Face Wash.— The following forms a nice cooling wash for the 
face during the summer months, and removes freckles : Sweet 
almonds, five ounces; bitter almonds, one ounce; rose water, 
two pints and a half; white curd soap, half an ounce; 
spermaceti, half an ounce ; white wax, half an ounce ; English 
oil of lavender, twenty drops; otto of roses, twenty drops; 
rectified spirits, one pint. Blanch the almonds, and beat them 
up with the soap and a little of the rose water ; melt together the 
oil of almonds, spermaceti, and white wax, and mix with the 
former into a cream, and strain it through thin muslin ; then 
add gradually the remaining rose water, and, lastly, the spirit 
with the essential oils mixed therein. 

Feeckles. — For freckles no internal remedies will reach the 
peat of the trouble. In excessive freckling and moth-patches 
the color may be greatly lightened or removed by the frequent 
or constant use of washes capable of producing an unusually 
rapid casting off of the cells of the cuticle, but in no other way. 
Preparations sold for this purpose often contain very dangerous 
ingredients. A solution of borax in water (a drachm to the pint) 
will be of service in slight cases, applied night and morning. 

Corns.— To cure a corn soak the corn for one half hour in a 



42 HOW TO KEEP HOtJSt!. 

solution of soda, and pare it as close as possible, then apply a 
plaster of the following ingredients : Take of purified ammonia 
and yellow wax each two ounces, and of acetate of copper six 
drachms ; melt the first two ingredients together, and, after re- 
moving them from the fire, add the acetate of copper just be- 
fore they grow cold. Spread the ointment on a piece of soft 
leather or linen, applying it to the corn, removing it in two 
weeks. . 

Ingrowing Toe-Nails — To cure ingrowing toe-nails, begin 
the effort at cure by simple application to the tender part of a 
small quantity of perchloride of iron. It is found in drugstores 
in a fluid form, though sometimes in powder. There is imme- 
diately a moderate sensation of pain, constriction, or burning. 
In a few minutes the tender surface is felt to be dried up, 
tanned, or mummified, and it ceases to be painful. By per- 
mitting the hardened, wood-like fiesh to remain for two or 
three weeks, it can be easily removed by soaking the foot in 
water. A new and healthy structure is found firm and solid 
below. If thereafter the nails be no more cut around the cor- 
ner or sides, but always curved in across the front end, they 
will in future grow only forwards. When cutting the nails, take 
a piece of broken glass and scrape the top very thin ; it makes 
the cornors fly up and grow flat, so that it is impossible they 
should give you any pain. 

For Bunions.— The following ointment is excellent for an in- 
flamed bunion: Iodine, twelve grains; spermaceti ointment, 
half an ounce. A portion about the size of a horse bean to be 
rubbed on the affected part twice or thrice a day. If the bun- 
ion is nou inflamed, the best remedy is to place on it first a 
piece of diachlyon plaster, oxide of lead and oil, and upon it a 
piece of thick leather, this having a hole the size of the bunion 
cut in it. 

Green Writing Ink.— Take 1 ounce of verdigris, and having 
pounded it, put it to 1 quart of vinegar; after it has stood two 
or three days strain off the liquid. Or, instead of this use of the 
crystals of verdigris, dissolved in water; then dissolve in 1 pint 
of either of these solutions, 5 drachms of gum arable and 2 
drachms of white sugar. 

To Cure Dandruff.— Dandruff is sometimes caused by neg- 
lecting to give the head the full amount of attention which is 
required to keep the hair in a healthy condition. In order to 
promote its full vigor, every head of hair should be thoroughly 
brushed once every day, and cleaned with a detersive applica- 
tion, washed out with water, at least once each week. The fol- 
lowing 18 a good hair-wash, which will assist in cleaning, if 
simply applied to the skin of the head Where the suit of hair is 
very thick and difficult to dry, after a thorough wetting. A gen- 
tleman having short hair may easily pour the wash on his hair, 
rub it thoroughly, then rinse his entire head in a bowl of water, 
which is much the better plan. To prepare the wash, take one 
ounce of borax and half an ounce of gum camphor, powder 
and dissolve in one quart of boiling water. The solution is ready 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 43 

for use as soon as cool. The hair should be dressed with a 
pomade, or the following, which is termed " Brazilian amber 
^loss," and composed of castor-oil, 1 pint ; alcohol, 7 pints ; oil 
of geranium, 1-2 ounce ; oil of cloves, l-l ounce ; oil of thyme, 
1-4 ounce. * * 

Gun Bakeels. — To blue c^r brown the barrel of a gun dissolve 
two parts of crystallized chloride of iron, two pans of solid 
chloride of antimony, and one part of gallic acid in four or five 
parts of water ; apply with a small sponge, and let it dry in the 
air ; repeat the application two or three times, then wash with 
water, dry, and rub with boiled linseed-oil to deepen the shade; 
repeat the application until you are satisfied with the result. 

How TO Dye Ivoet.— With regard to dyeing ivory, horn, 
bone, etc., it may be observed that the colors penetrate better 
before the surface is polished than afterward. Should any dark 
spots appear they may be cleared up by rubbing them with 
chalk; after which, the substance should be dyed once more to 
produce a perfect uniformity of shade. On taking it out of a 
boiling-hot dye-bath, it should be plunged immediately into 
cold water to prevent the chance of fissure being caused by the 
heat. Ivory may be dyed by any of the ordinary methods em- 
ployed for woolens after first being freed from dirt and grease. 
To obtain a very deep shade of black, boil the substance for 
some time in a strained decoction of logwood, and then steep it in 
a solution of red sulphate or red acetate of iron. 

Foe Bestoeing the Haie.— When the hair, after being natu- 
rally luxuriant, becomes thin, use the following recipe: Take of 
extract of yellow Peruvian bark, fifteen grains ; extract of rha- 
tany root, eight grains ; extract of burdock root and oil of nut- 
megs (fixed) of each, two drachms; camphor, dissolved with 
spirits of wine, fifteen grains ; beef marrow, two ounces ; best 
olive oil, one ounce ; citron juice, half a drachm ; aromatic es- 
sential oil, as much as sufficient to render it fragrant. Mix, and 
shake it into an ointment — two drachms of bergamot and a few 
drops of attar of roses would suffice. This is to be used every 
morning. 

Toothache. — Toothache or neuralgic affection arising from 
the teeth in any state of decay may be cured by saturating a 
small bit of clean cotton or wool with a strong solution of am- 
monia, and applying it immediately to the affected tooth. The 
pleasing contrast instantaneously produced sometimes causes a 
fit of laughter, although a moment previous extreme pain and 
anguish prevailed. 

To Fix Coloeed Peints on Windows.— Color the right side 
of the print in moist water colors, and in strong even washes. 
Prepare a solution, not too thick, of Canada balsam in rectified 
oil of turpentine. Coat the face of the coloring evenly with this, 
and fix the picture upon the window with a solution of gum- 
arabic. With a little care and attention you will be able to do 
this very nicely. 

To Bemove Flesh- Woems.— The simplest method to be rid 
of these blackheads is by placing a watch-key over the worm 



44 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

and pressing gently, when it will come out into the barrel of the 
key ; or by a gentle pressure beneath the nails of the opposite 
fingers, followed by the use of warm water and soap. Either 
of the^ methods is to be followed by the daily application of a 
lotion composed of thirty-six grains of subcarbouate of soda, 
dissolved in eight ounces of distilled water, that has been per- 
fumed with six drachms of essence of roses. 

Rose Wateb.— Dissolve attiir of roses, six drachms avoirdu- 
pois, in strongest rectified spirit (hot), one imperial pint- 
Throw the solution into a twelve-gallon car-feoy, and add tem 
gailonB pure distilled water at 180 deg. Fahrenheit. At once 
cork the car-boy (at first loosely) and agitate the whole briskly 
(at first cautiously) until quite cold. 

How TO Make a Water Filteb — Powdered charcoal and 
sand, equal parts, or about equal, afl^ords efficient water filtra- 
tion, providmg the filtration is not constant. The filter will 
constantly purify itself by letting it rest every few hours, giving 
the air an opportunity to act upon the charcoal. If kept con- 
stantly at work the charcoal becomes inert, and the water is 
merely strained and only partially purified. We recommend 
filtered rain-water for general use— there is none more whole- 
some or better. 

Tan. — Barley water, made thick, two fluid ounces; distilled 
water of bean flowers, two fluid ounces ; spirits of wine, two 
fluid ounces. The skin is to be washed often with this solution, 
which will also drive away freckles and sunburn. 

Soda Water.— Dissolve one ounce of carbonate of soda in one 
gallon of water; put it into bottles, in the quantity of a tumbler- 
ful or half a pint to each ; having the cork ready, drop into each 
bottle half a drachm of tartaric, or citric acid, or crystals ; cork 
and wire it immediately, and it will be ready to use at any 
time. 

Green Sealing- Wax.— Take of shellac, four parts; Venice 
turpentine, one part ; melt them together, and add the proper 
color ; the best greens are powdered verdigris, or else Scheele's 
green. The others are apt to turn blacK. with the heat ; so will 
even the last if too much heated. In this respect green bice is 
preferable, and, indeed, is next in quality to verdigris. 

Green Oil. — 1. Eider loaves, fresh, one pound ; olive oil, two 
pints. Boil the leaves in the oil till crisp, press out the oil, and 
put it on the fire again till it acquires a fine green color. 2. 
Take three ounces each cf the leaves of laurel, rue, camomile, 
wormwood, and marjortim, all fresh; olive oil, two pounds. 
Boil till crisp, piess out the oil, and let them settle. 

Glue Varnish. — This is much used by firework makers to 
stop up the ends of certain articles of their manufacture; also 
various military ammunition. It is also the usual ornamental 
varnish employed to decorate articles of these descriptions. It 
does not hang fire as a resin varnish would do, and it is itself 
incombustible ; it consists of nothing more than common glue 
with red lead, or for common purposes Venetian red, mixed 
with it, till of proper color; jt is laid on with a brush while hot, 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 46 

Gold Powdee.— 1. Put into an earthen mortar some gold leaf 
with a little honey or thick gum water, and grind the mixture 
till the gold is reduced to extremely minute particles ; when this 
is done, a little warm water will wash out the honey or gum, 
leaving the gold behind in a pulverulent state. . 2. Add to the 
nitro-chloric solution of gold a little of the solution of sulphate 
of iron ; metallic gold will be deposited in the state of a fine 
powder. It must be well washed before using. This powder 
has no metallic luster until rubbed. 

Soap or Turpentine.— Take of carbonate of potass, one hun- 
dred parts; oil of turpentine, one hundred parts; Venice tur- 
pentine, one hundred parts. Triturate the carbonate of potass 
in a marble mortar, first with the oil and then with the Venice 
turpentine; when they are well mixed, grind by small portions 
at a time until it has acquired the consistence of hard honey, and 
has become homogeneous. 

Brass-Coating. — Brass plates and rods may be covered with 
a superficial coating of biass, by exposing them in a heated 
state to the fumes of melted zmc, at a high tempei-ature. The 
celebrated spurious gold wire of Lyons is thus made. Vessels 
of copper may be coated with brass, internally, by filling them 
with water strongly acidulated with muriatic acid, adding some 
amalgam of zinc and cream of tartar, and then boiling for a 
short time. 

Paint.— To get rid of the smell of oil paint, plunge a handful 
of hay into a pailful of water, and let it stand in the room newly 
painted. 

Soda Powder.— In blue paper put thirty grains of carbonate 
of soda ; in white paper, twenty- five grains of tartaric acid, and 
one-eighth grain tartarized antimony. 

Painting in Enamel. — Enamel painting is performed on 
plates of gold and silver, and most commonly of copper enam- 
eled with enamel ; whereon they paint with colors Avhich are 
melted in the fire, whore they take a brightness and luster like 
that of glass. This painting is prized chiefly for its peculiar 
brightness and vivacity, which is very permanent; the force of 
its colors not being affected or sullied with time, as in other 
painting, and continuing always as fresh as when it came out 
of the workman's hand. It is usually in miniature, it being the 
more difficult the larger it is, by reason of certain accidents it 
is liable to in the operation. Enameling should only be prac- 
ticed on plates of gold, the other metals being less pure. Cop- 
per, for instance, scales with the application, and yields fumes, 
and silver turns the yellow white. Nor must the place be made 
flat, for, in such case, the enamel cracks; to avoid which, they 
iisually forge them a little round or oval, and not too thick. 
The plate being well and evenly forged, they usually begin the 
operation by laying on a couch of white enamel on both sides, 
which prevents the metal from swelling and blistering; and the 
first layer serves for the ground of all the other colors. The 
plate being thus prepared, they begin at first by drawing out 
exactly the subject to be painted with red vitriol, mixed with oil 
of spike, working all parts of that design very lightly with a 



46 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

small pencil; after this, the colors which are to be before 
ground with mortar of agate extremely fine, and mixed with oil 
of spike somewhat thick, are to bo laid on, observing the mix- 
tures and colors that agree to the different parts of the subject, 
for which it is necessary to understand painting in miniature; 
but here the workman must be very cautious of the good or 
bad qualities of the oil of spike he employs to mix his colors 
with, for it is very subject to adulterations. Great care must 
be taken likewise that the least duot imaginable comes not to 
your colors, when you are either painting or grinding, for the 
least speck, when it is worked up witb it, and when the ^^ork 
come»to be put into the reverberatory to be made red-hot, will 
leave a hole, and so deface thp work. AVhen the colors are all 
laid, the painting must be gently dried over a slow fire to evap- 
orate the oil, and the colors afterwards melted to incorporate 
them with the enamel, making the plate red-hot in a Are, like 
that which the enameler uses. Afterwards that part of the 
painting must be passed over again which the fire has anything 
effaced, strengthening the shade and color, and committing it 
again to the fire, observing the same method as before, which is 
to be repeated till the work be finished. 

How TO Line Stair-Cakpets. — It is a common practice to use 
bits of old carpets as a lining for stair-carpets, but a much bet- 
ter way is to tsxke strips of an old bed-quilt, have them not quite 
the width of the staircase, wash and dry first, then put 
smoothly over the stairs, tacking in a few places. ' It is softer 
than old carpet, and will not wear the outer one nearly so much. 
Of courspi, this is a hint for those who cannot afford the nice 
linings that are made on purpose. 

How TO Cover Closet Floors. — Do not put carpets in your 
closets ; oil-cloth or matting is much better, and can be easily kept 
free from dust. Matting, after being swept, should be wiped 
with a damp cloth. Hot water and salt will thoroughly cleanse 
it, and will not discolor it. If one could afford to doit, it would 
be a healthful plan to lay aside the carpets of sleeping-rooms 
during the summer, and substitute the cool, fresh mattings. A 
great many people laugh in a somewhat scornful way at any 
new suggestion relating to matters of health ; they think the 
old and tried ways of doing things are the best, without much 
regard to their results. In nothing are ignorance and narrow-- 
mindedness more plainly shown than in this. " People didn't 
use to be so afraid ot their drinking-water, and of glucose and 
such things, till these chemists and scientific men said so much 
about them," one man remarked to another. " I never pay any 
attention to 'em," wns the reply, in a tone which settled the 
question, and precluded all possibility of discussion. 

Varnish for Violins. — Take half a gallon of rectified spirits 
of wine, to which put six ounces of gum mastic and half a pint 
of turpentine varnish ; put the above in a tin case, keep it in a 
very warm place, frequently shaking it until it is dissolved. 
Strain it and keep it for use. Should you find it harder than 
you desire, you may add a little more turpentine varnish. 

To Bemove Paint Lettering from Wire Gauze Window- 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 41 

Blinds.— Hold each portion of the letter at about an inch dis- 
tant over the chimney of an argand gas-flame. In this manner 
treat every letter, or every part of the paint ornament, until the 
oil with which the color has been mixed becomes decomposed 
and charred. Allow the gauze to cool, and then wash it well 
with strong acetic (pyroligneous) acid, rubbing it occasionally 
until the paint is removed. Next wash and dry the blind, rub 
off adherent rust by means of a wire or hair-brush, and polish 
with black lead. 

Black Iron- Wokk.— Put forty-eight pounds of foreign as- 
phaltum into an iron pot, and boil for four hours ; during the 
first two hours introduce seven pounds of litharge, three 
pounds of dried copperas, and ten gallons of boiled oil ; add 
one-eighth of a pound of dark gum lac, with two gallons of hot 
oil. After pouring the oil and gum, continue the boiling for 
two hours, or until it will roll into hard pills like japan. When 
cool, thin it off with thirty gallons of turpentine, or until it is of 
a proper consistence. This varnish is intended for blacking the 
iron-work of coaches and other carriages, etc. 

Gilding of Iron. — 1. The iron bar, instrument, or vessel, is 
first made perfectly bright, then soaked in an acidulated liquor, 
and afterwards rubbed dry with whiting. Now prepare a so- 
lution of the sulphate of copper, and immerse the iron in it; in 
a few seconds the whole will become covered with a very beauti- 
ful but thin coat of copper, so as to appear entirely composed 
of that metal. The amalgam of gold is now to be apphed, as in 
gilding copper, and put into the furnace for the separation of 
the mercury. 2. Pour some of the etheral solution of gold into 
a wine-glass, and dip therein the blade of a new pen-knife, 
lancet, or razor; withdraw the instrument, and allow the ether 
to evaporate. The blade will be found to be covered with a. 
very beautiful coat of gold. A clean rag, or small piece of 
sponge, may be dipped^ in the ether, and used to moisten the 
blade, with the same result. This coating of gold will remain 
upon the steel for a length of time, and will preserve it from 
rusting. 

How TO Keep Gloves from Crocking.— Black cotton gloves 
will not crock the hands if scalded in salt and water before 
wearing. The salt prevents fading. When almost dry, one 
should put them on, in order to stretch them and keep them in 
good shape. 

How TO Wash a Linen Duster in such a way that it 
will not Look Faded.- All old colored linen should be 
washed in lukewarm water. If there are any grease-spoLs, use 
a little hard soap, or, better still, remove them with benzine. 
Rinse thoroughly in water in Avhich a third of a cup of salt has 
been dissolved ; the last water must be very blue, and a small 
handful of starch put in. Hang in a shady place ; and, as soon 
as the duster is dry, take it down, so that the wind will not blow 
the starch out. If dampened with warm water, it will soon be 
ready to iron. 

Parchment Glue Take one pound of parchment, and boil 



48 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

it in six quarts of water till the quantity be 'reduced to one 
quart ; then pour off the fluid from the dregs, and boil it again, 
till it be of the consistence of glue. 

Essence or Peppermint.— 1. Spirits of wine, one pint; put 
into it one ounce of prepared kali previously heated ; decant and 
add half an ounce of oil of peppermint. 2. Oil of peppermint, 
one pound ; strong spirits of wine, two gallons ; color with 
dried peppermint leaves, eight ounces. 3. Oil of peppermint, 
three ounces ; spirits of wine, colored with spinach, two pints. 

SiLVEEiNG Glass Globes.— 1. Melt together one ounce of 
clean tead and one ounce of fine tin in a clean iron ladle; then 
immediately add one ounce of bismuth. Skim off the dross, re- 
move the ladle from the fire, and before it sets add ton ounces 
of quicksilver. Now stir the whole carefully together, taking 
care not to breathe over it, as the fumes of the mercury are 
very pernicious. Pour this through an earthen pipe into the 
glass globe, which turn repeatedly round. 2. To two ounces of 
quicksilver add as much tin-foil as will become barely fluid 
when mixed. Let the globe be clean and warm, and inject the 
quicksilver by means of a pipe at the aperture, turning it about 
till it is silvered all over. Let the remainder run out and hang 
the globe up. 

Gilding Liqctid.— Take of fine gold five ounces (troy) ; nitro- 
muriatic acid, flfty-two ounces ; dissolve by heat, and continue 
the heat until red or yellow vapors are evolved; decant the 
liquid into a proper vessel ; add of distilled water four gallons ; 
pure bicarbonate of potash, twenty pounds ; boil for two hours. 

Queen's Cordial For three gallons, take two gallons of rec- 
tified spirit, one drachm of the oil of peppermint, two drachms 
of the oil of carraway seeds, one ounce of coriander seeds, one 
ounce of cassia, quarter of an ounce of mace, one pint of spir- 
its of wine, and two pints of syrup; fill it up with water, and 
clarify with alum. 

Queen's Metal.— Take four and a half pounds of tin, half a 
pound of bismuth, half a pound of antimony, and half a pound 
of lead. Or, one hundred pounds of tin, eight pounds of anti- 
mony, one pound of bismuth, and four pounds of copper. This 
alloy is used for making teapots and other vessels which 
imitate silver. 

The Use of Vaenish.— No one knows until she has tried it 
how much she may change the aspect of things about the house 
by using a little varnish. On a sunshiny day take the old chairs 
and tables out on the porch or by an open door, and after 
thoroughly dusting and wiping off with a damp cloth, apply a 
thin coat of varnish, and so cover up scratches and marred 
spots of all kinds. It will dry in a short time, and you will be 
surprised to see how much good you have done. A flannel 
cloth, with a very little linseed oil, is good to rub furniture 
with ; but the greatest care must be exercised to prevent any oil 
being left on the wood to attract dust. It must be rubbed until 
vou would not know, except by the improved appearance, that 
any oil had been used. Coach varnish, which is heavier than 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 49 

the ordinary kind used on furniture, will make oil-olcths look 
as good as new. Wash and wipe before applying the varnish. 
Be careful not to step on them until they are dry If this is 
done every spring, the oil-cloths will last twice as long as they 
will without it. 

Inflamed Eyes.— Bathe the eyes with a lotion formed of 
twelve grains of sulphate of zinc, one dracem of wine of opium, 
and six ounces of rose water. 

EosE Oil.— Put any quantity of dried rose leaves into an earth- 
enware pipkin, cover them with olive-oil, and keep hot for some 
hours. The oil will extract both odor ana color. This oil has 
great effect in preserving the hair, preventing it from turning 
prematurely gray, and improving it in every respect. 

To Clean Gold Lace.— Gold lace is easily cleaned and re- 
stored to its original brightnessby rubbing it with a soft brush 
dipped in roche-alum burnt, sifted to a very fine powder. 

Kazoe Paste. — 1. Finely washed oxide of tin (putty powder), 
one ounce; powdered oxalic acid, quarter of an ounce; pow- 
dered gum, twenty grains. Make into a stiff paste with water. 
2. Emery reduced to a very fine powder, two parts ; spermaceti 
ointment, one part. 3. Jeweler's rouge, or crocus, and suet, 
equal parts. 4. The last, with the addition of an equal part of 
black lead. 5. Diamond dust, one part ; powdered chalk, or red 
ochre, one part. 6. The snuff of a tallow candle made into a 
paste with grease of any kind. 

How TO Peeserve Bird Skins.— 1. Thoroughly cover them 
with a mixture of salt and alum— two parts of the former and 
one of the latter — this mixture having a tendency to tan the 
skins as well as keep them sweet. Fill all the cavities— the 
mouth, eye-sockets, brain-pan, skins of the legs and wings— 
with the same mixture, and then carefully fold and lay it in a 
dry, warm place. If you intend to keep the skin a long time 
before mounting, give it a good sprinkling with red pepper, and 
seal it up in a common manilla-paper bag, to protect it from 
moths. In this way it may be kept in good preservation for a 
long time. 2. In " setting up " the specimen— a technical term 
for "mounting" — it would be well to adhere to the following 
rules laid down by one who has had much experience : Make a 
cross by twisting together two small wires — one long enough to 
reach from the head to the root of the tail, and the other to ex- 
tend as far as the outspread wings may reach. Put this inside 
the skin, which must have been soaked in water till it is as soft 
as Avhen taken from the bird. Stuff in around it tow or cotton, 
or any soft substance, thoroughly saturated with camphor or 
red pepper. Procure glass eyes, made to exactly imitate the 
bird's eyes, at any bird store, or from a dealer in taxidermist's 
materials. Put other wires inside the skin of the legs, and let 
the ends protrude far enough to serve for fastening the feet to a 
little block of wood. If you desire to have the bird look 
life-like, carefully sew up the breast, and then give the 
bird any desired position by bending the wires. Lastly, bind it 
about in every direction with twine, and allow it to remain un- 



50 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

disturbed for ten days, in order that it may become dry. Grreat 
care siiould be exercised in placing all feathers which may 
have become misplaced or rumpled in their appropriate posi- 
tion. You can procure, through a newsdealer or bookseller in 
your town, a book bearing upon the subject of taxidermy, from 
which you will obtain fuller information on the subject than can 
be given in this limited sptice. 

How TO Make Sealing-Wax.— To make a fine red sealing- 
wax melt cautiously four ounces of very pale shellac, in a 
bright copper pan, over a clear charcoal fire, at the lowest de- 
gree of heat necessary to melt it. When melted, stir in one and 
a quarter ounces of Venice turpentine (previously warmed), 
followed by three ounces of vermillion. The heat must not be 
too much nor too little, but just sufficient to allow of a most 
thorough mixing of the ingredients. When this is accomplished, 
the fluid mass should be poured into suitable metallic molds 
and left to cool. The addition of a little alcohol to the shellac 
will cause it to melt more easily. These sticks of sealing-wax 
have no polish, and to produce this they iiave to be heated 
again on the surface. In order to do this they should be put 
into other molds, made of polished steel, which are engraved 
with the desired ornamentations. These molds are to be 
heated only just sufficient to melt the sealing-wax on the sur- 
face, by which operation the sticks attain a beautiful, glossy 
appearance. The heating of the mold to stamp the mark of 
the manufacturer may be performed with a spirit-lamp. The 
addition of a little balsam of Peru, liquid storax, musk, or am- 
bergris, or any of the fragrant essential oils, to the ingredients, 
when considerably cooled, will give a very pleasant odor to the 
sealing-wax. 

To Pkepaee Sugae for Candies.— The confectioner requires 
different degrees of boiling in order to bring the sugar to the 
proper state for the various articles he prepares. Well clarified 
and perfectly transparent syrup is boiled until a skimmer 
dipped into it, and a portion touched between the forefinger and 
thumb, on opening them, is drawn into a small thread, which 
crystallizes and breaks. This is called a " weak candy height." 
If boiled again, it will draw into a larger string, and if bladders 
may be blown with the mouth through the drippings from the 
ladle, it has acquired the second degree, and is known as 
" bloom sugar." After still further boiling, it arrives at the 
state called "feathered sugar." To determine this the confec- 
tioner dips the skimmer and shakes it over the pan, then gives 
it a sudden flirt or jerk, and the sugar will fly off like feathers. 
The next degree is that of " crackled sugar," in which state the 
sugar that hangs to a stick dipped into it and put directly into 
cold water is not dissolved off, but turns hard and snaps. The 
last stage of boiling reduces it to " caramel sugar," and is proved 
by dipping a stick into the sugar and then into cold water, 
when, on the moment it touches the water, it will snap like 
glass. It has now arrived at " full candy height." In boiling 
sugar the heat must not be too fierce, as the syrup will become 
discolored. The best safeguard against this appears to be the 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 51 

use of steam heat. Color may be given to the candy by adding 
the coloring matter to the syrup before boiling it. Flavormg 
essences are added when the process is nearly completed. 

To Dky Fbuits.— In order to dry apples, pears, quinces and 
other fruits, have a frame made in the following manner: Two 
strips of board seven feet long, two or two and a half mches 
wide, and two strips three feet long and one and a half mches 
wide the whole three-quarters of an inch thiclc. Nail the long 
strips across the ends of the short ones, and thus make si frame 
seven by three feet, a convenient size for all purposes. On one 
of the long strips nails are to be driven three inehes apart, ex- 
tending from one end to the other. After the apples are pared, 
ciuarter and core them, and with a needle and twme,, or stout 
thread, string them into lengths sufficient to reach twice across 
the frame. Then tie the ends of the twine, and hang the strings 
of fruit on the nails spoken of above. The apples or pears, or 
whatever fruit that can be strung in the manner described, will 
soon dry, and may be removed from the strings, and more 
placed on them. In pleasant weather the frames can be set out 
of doors against the side of a building or any other support and 
at night, or on cloudy or stormy days, they can be brought into 
the house and set near the stove or flre-place. 

To Peevent Planks from Cracking.— By applying a solution 
of muriatic acid and lime to the ends of logs or planks, in the 
same manner as whitewash, the difficulty will be obviated, as 
the chloride of calcium which is formed attracts moisture from 
the air and prevents splitting. Tobacconists' signs and other 
wooden images generally have a hole bored through their center 
from top to bottom, this in a great measuring preventing the 
outer surface from cracking, by allowmg the wood to dry and 
shrink uniformly. 

Polishing Paste for Tins, Brasses, and Copper.— This is 
composed of rotten stone, soft soap, and oil of turpentine ; the 
stone must be powdered and sifted through a muslin or hair 
sieve • mix with it as much soft soap as will bring it to the stitt- 
ness of putty ; to half a pound of this, add two ounces of oil of 
turpentine ; it may be made into balls ; it will soon become 
hard, and will keep any length of time. Method of using : The 
articles to be polished should be perfectly free from grease and 
dirt; moisten a little of the paste with water, smear it over the 
metal, rub briskly with a dry rag or leather, and it will soon 
bear a beautiful polish. A good stove polish may be made of 
black lead mixed with the white of an egg. Put on with a 
brush, and polish with a dry hard brush. To make an excel- 
lent furniture polish: take turpentine, linseed oil, and vinegar. 
In equal proportions ; apply and rub with flannel. A little soap 
put on the hmges or latch of a door will stop its creaking, bait 
will curdle milk, hence in preparing gravies, porridge, etc., tne 
salt should not be added till the dish is prepared. If your flat- 
irons are rough, or soiled, lay some salt on a flat surface and 
rub the face of the iron well over it. Bub your griddle with fine 
salt before you grease it, and your cakes will not stick. When 



62 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

clothes have acquired an unpleasant odor by being from the air, 
charcoal laid in the folds will soon remove it. 

BuBLAP Mats.— A handsome and inexpensive mat for the 
floor may be made of burlap worked in cross-stitch with differ- 
ent-colored worsteds. Use for it the odds and ends left from 
other fancy work. Work a few stitches of one color and then 
of another, just as the colors happen to come, and the effect is 
like that of a Persian pattern. If one cares to spend so much 
time on it, a center-piece and'a border add much to the beauty 
of it. The mat maybe lined with a piece of carpet, or with mat- 
ting oivnew ticking, and the edge finished with worsted fringe 
or with flannel cut in scallops. 

To Keep Boys and Girls at Home,— An excellent and well- 
tried recipe for keeping boys and girls out of mischief in the 
long winter evenings is to give them something suitable and 
interesting to do. Set them to making scrap-books. If there 
are two or three children, let each one take a subject, and see 
what and how much he can collect upon that for his book. For 
example, we have what we call an " Animal Scrap-Bo®k," in 
which is pasted every fact, incident, and anecdote we can find 
relating to animals. We have a dog department, a horse 
department, etc. It is a valuable book for purposes of illustra- 
tion or reference. 

Varnishes to Polish.— The process is effected with pumice- 
stone and tripoli earth. The pumice-stone must be x-educed to 
an impalpable powder and put upon a piece of serge moistened 
with water ; with this rub lightly and equally the varnished sur- 
face. The tripoli must also be reduced to a very fine powder and 
put upon a clean woolen cloth moistened with olive oil, with 
which the polishing is to bo performed. The varnish is then to 
be wiped off with soft linen, and when quite dry cleaned with 
starch or Spanish white, and rubbed with the palm of the 
hand. Colors for varnishes— Black: Lampblack, carefully 
washed and afterwards dried ; or black obtained from burnt 
vine-twigs or peach-stones. Yellow : Yellow ochre and yellow 
pink, Naples and Montpelier yellows. In mixing up the last 
two, a horn or ivory spatula, with a glass pestle and mortar, 
must be used, because these yellows are hurt if touched with 
steel or iron. Blue : Indigo, Persian blue, blue verditer and ul- 
tramarine. All these must be finely powdered. Green : Verdi- 
gris, distilled or crystallized verdigris and green compounded of 
yellow and blue. The verdigris will require a mixture of white, 
varying from one-fourth to two -thirds, according: to the tint re- 
quired. Either white lead, Spanish white or ceruse may be 
used for this purpose. Red : Vermillion, red lead, red ochre. 

Washing Towels.- Towels with handsome, bright borders 
should never be boiled or allowed to lie in very hot water ; they 
should not be used till they are so much soiled that they need vig- 
orous rubbing to make them clean. It is better economy to use 
more towels than to wear out a few in a short time. A gentle 
rubbing in two suds, and then conscientious rinsing in warm 
water and then in cold, ought to be all that is required. 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 53 

How TO Polish a Stove Easily.— If a little vinegar or some 
cider is mixed with stove- polish, it will not take much rubbing 
to make the stove bright, and the blacking is not likely to fly off 
in fine dust. 

Gilding In gilding on metals let the articles be well cleaned 

and polished ; then apply the following powder by friction with 
a piece of cork, moistened with salt and water, after which 
burnish with a blood-stone burnisher. The powder is thus 
made: Take pure gold five drachms, pure copper one drachm, 
aqua regia ten ounces. Dissolve the metals in the acid, soak 
clean linen rags in the solution, dry and burn them, and care- 
fully collect the ashes, which contain the gold in a state of mi- 
nute division. Another process for gilding is as follows : The 
article to be gilt being either copper, brass, or silver, is first 
made quite bright, then it is rubbed over with amalgam of gold. 
This will adhere to the surface. The next part of the process is 
to put the article gilt into an oven, that the quicksilver of the 
amalgam may be evaporated. The gold is now left as a black 
poM'der, which requires only rubbing over strongly Avith a stiff, 
long-haired brush, and afterwards be washed with vinegar and 
water, and lastly with water only. 

Pkettt and Simple Gen aments. —A pretty decoration for the 
corner of a room is a bunch of ripe wheat tied with a bright rib- 
bon ; or divide the wheat across the stems, tie, and hang over a 
picture. The beauty of common things is fully established ; 
cat's-tails, sunflowers, and dandelions are at length appreciated. 
Acorns may also be used to good advantage for trimming fancy 
baskets for waste paper; take a piece of wire and fasten around 
the stems, and you can arrange them in any way to suit your- 
self. They are pretty bronzed, or may be used in the state of 
nature, as they were picked up in the woods. To bronze them, 
get a little bronze powder at a drug-store, mix it with varnish, 
and apply with a soft cloth. TLe powder must be used very 
quickly after mixing with the varnish, or that will harden so 
that it will be impossible to use it. 

Moths.— Professor Riley says, in a scientific journal, that the 
early days of May should herald vigorous and exterminating 
warfare upon those subtle pests, clothes moths; closets, ward- 
robes, etc., should be emptied and the clothing laid open and 
thoroughly exposed to light and air, and well brushed before 
being replaced. Spirits of turpentine should be brushed in 
cracks, wainscots, and shelves, and camphor or tobacco placed 
among the garments, furs, plumes, etc., when laid aside for the 
summer. To seciire the cloth linings of carriages from moths, 
sponge them on both sides with a solution of corrosive subli- 
mate or mercury in alcohol, made just strong enough not to 
leave a white mark on a black feather. 

Salt and Moths.— It is said, and by good authority, that after 
wiping up the floor, if salt is sprinkled over it while damp, 
moths will not try that harbor again. When making a carpet 
it is recommended that enough be allowed to fold under an inch 
or two, so that when it is put down, salt can be spread between 
the folds, and also sprinkle salt all around the sides and corners 



54 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

of the room before nailing the carpet. We have never tried 
this, but have several good authorities who endorse it, and prom- 
ise that moths will not injure carpets if this advice is followed. 

Hair Eeceivers. — The little Japanese parasols, which can be 
bought for four or five cents, make very pretty hair-receivers. 
Open them about half their extent ; if necessary to make them 
stay half open, catch them wiih a few stitches. Put a loop of 
ribbon around the handle and hang them up. 

Shaving Cases.— The prettiest shaving cases I have ever seen 
are made by using for a foundation little Japanese fans. Cover 
the fan with silk or Silesia, or combine; cut a piece of paste- 
board tne size of the fan, and, as this is to be the outside of the 
case, cover it with silk or satin, trim the edge with narrow lace 
or with plaited ribbon, ornament it with a bow, or paint a spray 
of flowers on it, or put on neatly a pretty transfer picture, or an 
initial, according to the means and taste of the maker. Fasten 
the paper leaves which may be pinked to the fan part, and then 
put on the cover, catching it with silk to the upper part of the 
fan near the handle. Put a loop of ribbon or chenille at the end 
of the handle to hang it up by. This is an acceptable gift for a 
gentleman. 

To Clean Maeble.— Take two parts of common soda, one 
part of pumice-stone, and one part of flnely-powdered chalk ; 
sift it through a fine sieve, and mix it with water; then rub it 
well all over the marble, and the stains will be removed: rub 
the marble over with salt and water. 

To Clean Tinware,— The best thing for cleaning tinware is 
common soda; dampen a cloth, dip it in soda, rub the ware 
briskly, after which, wipe dry. 

To Clean Cut-glass.— Having washed cut-glass articles, let 
them di-y, and afterwards rub them with prepared chalk and a 
soft brush, carefully going into all the cavities. 

Weak Eyes,— For weak eyes, take half an ounce of rock salt 
and one ounce dry sulphate of zinc; simmer in a perfectly clean 
covered porcelain vessel with three pints of water, until all are 
dissolved; strain through thick muslin, add one ounce of rose 
water; bottle and cork it tight. To use it, mix one teaspoonful 
of rain water with one of eye water, and bathe the eyes, if weak, 
frequently. If it smarts too much, add more water; if not 
enough, make it a little stronger by adding more eye water. 
This is an admirable wash for weak eyes. It cannot be excelled. 

To Clean Woolen and Silk Shawls.— Pare and grate raw 
mealy potatoes, and put to each pint of the potato pulp a couple 
of quarts of cold water. Let it stand five hours, then strain the 
water through a sieve, and rub as much of the potato pulp 
through as possible ; let the strained water stand to settle 
again ; when very clear, turn the water off from the dregs care- 
fully. Put a clean white cotton sheet on a perfectly clean table, 
lay on the shawl which you wish to clean, and pin it down 
tight. Dip a sponge, that has never been used, into the potato 
water, and rub the shawl with it till clean ; then rinse the shawl 
in clear water, with a tea-cup of salt to^ pailful of water. 



_HOW TO KEEP MOUSE. 55 

Spread It on a clean, level place, where it will dry quick— if hung 
up to dry, the colors are apt to run, and make the shawl 
streaked. Fold it up while damp, and let it remain half an 
hour, then put it in a mangier— if you have not one, wrap it m 
a clean white cloth, and put it under a weight, and let it remain 
till dry. If there are any grease spots on the shawl, they should 
be extracted before the shawl is washed. 

Home-made Work-Baskets.— Pretty little work-baskets may 
be made of— what do you think? the paper pails used to carry 
oysters home from the market in ! I saw one a few days ago ; 
it was lined with pale pink silk, the soft silk used for linings. 
The silk was turned over the outer edge and shirred around it. 
The wire handle was taken off, and a narrow strip of canvas 
used in place of it. This was covered with silk and orna- 
mented with a tiny bow. On each side of the pail was pasted a 
pretty picture. One would not guess of what the basket was 
made. 

Putting Away Woolen Clothes.— Great care must be exer- 
cised in putting away winter clothes. Clean paper sacks, or old 
cotton or linen pillow-cases, will do to hold them, providmg 
there are no holes in them. Take the garments that are to be 
laid away out-doors on a summer day, let them hang on a line 
for several hours, brush and beat all the dust out, then put into 
the bags ; tie them up so that no moth can get in, then lay them 
on clean, dry shelves, or hang them up. 

To Clean Engravings, Prints, or Uncolored Litho- 
graphs.— Free the paper from traces of dust, and float it, face 
downward, for half an hour or more on the surface of a clear 
solution of six ounces of fresh chloride of lime— calcium hypo- 
chlorite— in a pint of soft cold water contained in a shallow 
porcelain dish. Float on th* surface of water containing about 
three drachms of sulphuric acid to the pint. If not then white 
enough, repeat the operations, and finally rinse thoroughly in 
a spray of clear cold water, and dry between clean blotting- 
pads under pressure. Colored lithographs cannot be safely 
cleansed by this or other chemical treatment. 

Indelible Ink.— An excellent ink of this kind may be pre- 
pared by rubbing up one drachm of analine black with a mix- 
ture of sixty drops of concentrated hydrochloric acid, and one 
and one-half ounce of alcohol. The resulting deep blue liquid 
is then to be diluted with a hot solution of one and one-half 
drachms of gum arable in six ounces of water. This ink does 
not corrode a steel pen, and is affected neither by concentrated 
mineral acids nor by strong lye. If the analine black solution 
be diluted v/ith one and one- half ounces of shellac, dissolved in 
six ounces of alcohol, instead of with gum water, an analine 
black is obtained, which, after being applied to wood stained 
black, brass or leather, is remarkable for its extraordinary deep 
black color. 

An Economical Crumb-cloth.— A red table-cloth that is too 
much faded to be used on the table makes a good crumb-cloth. 
Starch it as stiff as you can easily, iron perfectly smooth, taking 



66 HOW TO KEEP ttOUSE. 

care to pull the edges straight and even ; pin it to the carpet in* 
stead of tacking it, as then it will not be so much trouble to take 
it up, and you will wash it just as soon as it needs it. It will 
keep clean a long time, and, even if you can afford a handsome 
cloth, it is convenient to use this when the other is up to be 
cleaned. 

How TO Make a Sand-B4.g.— Get some clean, fine sand, dry it 
thoroughly in a kettle on the stove. Make a bag about eight 
inches square of flannel, fill it with the dry sand, sew the open- 
ing carefully together, and cover the bag with cotton or linen 
cloth. TUis will prevent the sand from sifting out, and will also 
enable you to heat the bag quickly by placing it in the oven, or 
even on the top of the stove. After once using this no one will 
ever attempt to warm the feet and hands of a sick person with 
a bottle of hot water or a brick. The sand holds the heat a long 
time, and the bag can be tucked up to the back without hurting 
one. It is a good plan to make two or three of these bags, and 
keep them ready for use. Children with toothache can be put 
to sleep many a time with one. 

To Clean Paint.— Tea leaves may be saved from the table for 
a few days, and when sufficient are collected, steep, not boil, , 
them for half an hour in a tin pan. Strain the water off through 
a sieve, and use this tea to wash all varnished paint. It re- 
moves spots, and gives a fresher, newer appearance than when 
soap and water is used. For white paint, take up a small quan- 
tity of whiting on a damp piece of old white flannel, and rub 
over the surface lightly, and it will leave the paint remarkably 
bright and new. 

To Raise the Pile of Velvet,— Cover a hot smoothing-iron 
with a wet cloth, hold the velvet firmly over it; the vapor ris- 
ing will raise the pile of the velvet with the assistance of a light 
whisk. 

To Take Mildew from Linen.— Rub the spots with soap ; 
scrape chalk over it and rub it well ; lay it on the grass, in the 
sun ; as it dries, wet it a Uttle ; it will come out with two appli- 
cations. 

Foe Silvering Brass.— Cut into small pieces a twenty- five cent 
piece, and put it in an earthen vessel with half an ounce of 
nitric acid. Put the vessel into warm water, uncovered, until it 
dissolves. Add half gill of water, and one teaspoonful of fine 
salt, and let it settle. Drain off, and repeat, adding water to the 
sediment until the acid taste is all out of the water. Add finally 
about one pint of water into the sediment, and four scruples 
cyanide of potassium. Put into the solution a piece of zinc 
about two inches long, one wide, and one-eighth in thickness. 
After cleaning, immerse the article to be plated in the solution 
about half a minute, letting it rest on the zinc. Wipe off with a 
dry cloth, and repeat once. Polish with buckskin. 

Ink.— Inks of various colors may be made in the modes fol- 
lowing—they are very beautiful and frequently of considerable 
utility: For red ink, boil an ounce ot fine chips of Brazil-wood 
in half a pint of water for a quarter of an hour; add to the 



t 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 57 

decoction three drachms of gum-arabic, and as much alum as it 
will dissolve. For blue, diffuse Prussian blue oi indigo through 
strong gum-water. Inks of other colors may be made from a 
decoction of the materials used in dyeing, mixed with a little 
alum and gum-arabic. 

Stammering. — Stammering is an impediment in the speech, 
characterized by an inability or difficulty in properly enunciat- 
ing some of the elementary sounds, particularly the letter s in 
some of its complex combinations. The convulsive efforts of 
its victim to surmount the obstacles — thus compelling him to 
stammer over the difficult term— make him peculiarly sensitive 
to the ridicule of listeners, and his sensitiveness should secure 
him courteous treatment. This affliction is often met with in 
bright but diffident children, and if proper care be taken by the 
parent to see that the child forms the habit of distinctly articu- 
lating every sound, the practice will be ultimately outgrown. 
Such a stuttering may arise from a variety of causes, such as 
cleft palate or enlarged tonsils. In nlost cases, however, the 
cause is a purely nervous, though mysterious one, not connected 
with any organic condition whatever, though it may result from 
nervous exhaustion. Each case in maturer life should be treated 
by itself, by some competent teacher of elocution, who will 
thoroughly train the pupil to control his speech by appropriate 
discipline. If the patient will put forth his powers of self-con- 
trol, this affliction may be cured speedily. 

Opthalmic Ointment.— Ked precii>itate of mercury and 
lapis calaminaris, of each, one and a half drachms ; litharge, 
one drachm ; white oxide of zinc, half a drachm ; cinnabar, one 
scruple ; hog's lard, two ounces ; Peruvian balsam, fifteen drops. 
Useful for removing specks from the eyes, arising from small 
ulcers which have healed up. 

PpBSPiKATiON.— Offensive perspiration of the feet is a com- 
plaint from which many people suffen It is often the cause of 
the greatest mental anxiety. "We will give a few directions for 
its treatment. In the first place the condition of the general 
health should be investigated. Should any fault be detected, it 
must be set right For anaemia, or poorness of blood, iron is 
the remedy ; for loss of appetite, quinine ; for general debility, 
cod-liver oil ; for mental anxiety or overwork, the hypophos- 
phites. The bowels should be kept regular. Out-door exercise 
should be taken daily. Stimulants are allowable only in the 
strictest moderation. Scrupulous care should be paid to clean- 
liness. A cold bath should be taken every morning. The feet 
should be washed in tepid water night and morning, and oftener 
if possible. The addition of sea salt to the water may do good, 
but when the perspiration has a sour, acrid odor, a little vine- 
gar is better. The socks should be changed as soon as soiled, 
and they should be thoroughly washed each time, and not mere- 
ly dried. The boots should have broad soles and square toes, 
so as not to cramp the feet ; patent leather is to be avoided, and 
the same pair should not be worn every day. A dusting powder 
composed of equal parts of oxide of zinc and starch often prove 
useful ; it should be sprinkled freely inside the socks. Belladonna 



68 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

liniment rubbed into the feet three or four times a day often 
effects a cure. Sometimes it fails, but on the whole it is a very 
reliable mode of treatment. Liquid extract of ergot in fifteen- 
drop doses three or four times a day, sometimes does good. 
Some doctors employ an ointment composed of equal parts of 
lead plaster and linseed oil, spread on linen and wrapped round 
the feet, the application being renewed every third day for nine 
days. 

Nose-Bleeding.— The best remedy for bleeding at the nose, 
as given by Dr. Glasson in one of his lectures, is a vigorous 
motion of the jaws, as if in the act of mastication. In the case 
of a child, a wad of paper should be placed in its mouth, and 
the child instructed to chew it hard. It is the motion of the 
jaws that stops the flow of blood. This remedy is so very sim- 
ple that many will feel inclined to laugh at it; but it has never 
been known to fail— not even in very severe cases. 

BiRD-LiME is made from either linseed or the inner bark of 
the holly tree. In either case the process is the same— viz., by 
boiling until the required consistency is attained. Of the two 
the holly-bark makes the most tenacious bird-lime, but that 
from linseed is more easily procured. 

Wool Dyeing.— To dye wool and woolen cloth of a blue color. 
Dissolve one part of indigo in four parts of concentrated sul- 
phuric acid ; to the solution add one part of dry carbonate of 
potash, and then dilute it with eight times its weight of water. 
The cloth must be boiled for an hour in a solution containing 
Ave parts of alum and three of tartar for every thirty-two parts 
of cloth. It is then to be thrown into a water-bath, previously 
preoared, containing a greater or smaller proportion of diluted 
sulphate of indigo, according to the shade which the cloth is in- 
tended to receive. In this bath it must be boiled till it Jias 
acquired the wished-for color. 

Bookbinders' Varnish.— Three ounces of coarsely-pounded 
glass, separated from the dust by shaking it through a sieve ; 
six ounces mastic in drops ; thirty-two ounces spirits of wine of 
forty degrees. Put the ingredients in a sand-bath, and place 
over a fire; stir well all the time till they boil. When well 
mixed, add three ounces spirits of turpentine ; boil for half an 
hour, remove from the fire, let it cool, and strain through cotton 
cloth. Another recipe is : Three pints of spirits of wine of forty 
degrees, eight ounces sandarach, two ounces mastic in drops, 
eight ounces shellac, and two ounces Venice turpentine. Pre- 
pare as above, and apply on the book with a piece of cotton 
wool, a small sponge, or a brush. 

To Remove Flower or Fruit Stains.— Thorough rubbing 
with soap and soft water, repeated dipping in sour buttermilk 
and drying in the sun, rubbing in a thick mixture of starch and 
cold water and exposing long to sun and air, are among the ex- 

Eedients resorted to. Sulphurous acid is often employed to 
leach out colors. It may be generated at the moment of using 
by burning a small piece of sulphur in the air under the wide 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 69 

end of a small paper funnel whose upper orifice is applied to 
the cloth. 

To cure a felon, try the following: As soon as discovered, 
take some spirits of turpentine in a cup, dip the finger in it, and 
then hold the hand near a hot flre till dry ; then dip it in again, 
and repeat for fifteen minutes, or until pain ceases. The next 
day, with a sharp knife, pare off the thick skin, and you will 
find something like a honeycomb filled with water; open the 
cells and the felon is gone. If the felon is too far advanced for 
the turpentine, oil of origanum treated in the same way will 
cure. If too far advanced for either to cure, the felon will still 
be benefited, for it will be less painful. Never draw it. 

A GOOD ointment for chapped hands or broken chilblains : 
Venice turpentine, three ounces; sweet-oil, one pint; hog's lard, 
half a pound ; beeswax, three ounces. Put all these ingredi- 
ents into a pipkin over a slow flre, and stir them with a wooden 
SDOon till the beeswax is melted, and the mixture simmers. 
The longer it is kept the better it becomes. It must be spread 
very thin on a soft rag, or (for chaps or cracks) rubbed on the 
hands when you go to bed. You can prevent chaps by rubbing 
the hands with the following mixture: Melt three drachms of 
spermaceti and four drachms of white wax with one ounce of 
almond oil, and stir in three drachms of camphor (previously 
powdered by moistening it with a little spirits of wine) ; pour 
this into small gallipots, so as to form little cakes. If flower of 
sulphur mixed with a small quantity of milk, and after standing 
for an hour or two, the milk (without stirring up the sulphur), 
be rubbed into the skin, it will keep it soft and make the com- 
plexion clear. 

Pop-coBN Balls are made by the following method, the pro- 
portions being given for a half bushel of corn, which will 
make about a hundred balls. The corn is to be put into a pan 
and kept covered tightly until it has stopped popping, when it 
may be removed to a table. Then put a little wacer into a suit- 
able kettle, with one pound of sugar, and boil as if candy until 
it becomes quite waxy. Remove from the flre, and dip into it 
six or seven tablespooufuls of thick gum solution, made by boil- 
ing water upon gum arabic over night, or some time before. 
Now dip the mixture on different parts of the corn, lifting up 
and mixing until the corn is all saturated with the candy mix- 
ture. Then with the hands press the corn into balls, as the boys 
do snow-balls, being quick lest it may set ere you get through. 
White or brown sugar may be used. For variety, take white 
sugar for a part, and molasses or brown sugar for another 
batch. 

Ice Cream.— In making ice creams the following articles are 
required :— Pewter ice-pot, with tightly fitting lids, furnished 
with handles ; wooden ice-pails, stoutly made, about the same 
depth as the ice- pots, and nine or ten inches more in diameier, 
each having a hole in the side, fitted with a good cork, for draw- 
ing off the water from the melted ice. Also a broad spatula, 
about four inches long, rounded at the end, and furnished with 
a big wooden handle is necessary, to scrape the frozen cream 



60 HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 

from the sides of the ice-pot, aud for mixing the wliole smoothly 
together. To make strawberry ice-cream, take one pint of 
fresh strawberries (if not in season, strawberry-jam), one pint 
of cream, half a pound of powdered white sugar, and the juice 
of a lemon. Mash the fruit through a fine sieve, and take out 
the seeds ; mix with the other articles ; add a little new milk, 
and put the mixture in the ice-pot; cover it with the lid, and 
put the pot in the ice-pail, after which proceed to fill up with 
coarsely-pounded ice and salt in the proportion of about one 
part of salt to three of ice : let the whole remain a few minutes, 
then wUirl the pot briskly by the handle for a few minutes; take 
off the lid, and with the spatula scrape the iced cream from 
the sides, mixing the whole smoothly ; put on the lid and whirl 
again, repeating all the operations every few minutes, until the 
whole of the cream is well frozen. 

HoEEHOUND.— The horehound has long been a popular rem- 
edy for coughs ; and whenever the belief in any herb is found 
general, there are good grounds for presuming it possesses vir- 
tue. It is employed in the subjoined form, in cases of trouble- 
some chronic cough, particularly in that species which is found 
so frequently after attacks of influenza and other severe forms 
of cold, and has invariably been found to restore the tone of the 
system and subdue irritation, after more valued remedies have 
been employed in vain. Take Ave and a half ounces of the de- 
coction of horehound {marruhium vulgare) ; three grains of lupu- 
line ; one drachm of hydrocyanic acid, and three drachms of 
syrup of poppies. Mix them together, and take one or two 
spoonfuls three times a day. The decoction is prepared by boil- 
ing four ounces of the recent plant in a pint and a half of spring 
water till reduced to half the quantity. If the lupuline is diffi- 
cult to procure, the pollen of hop, or the extract of hop, may 
be substituted. 

Ink-stains [on mahogany or black walnut furniture may be 
removed by touching the stains with a feather wet in a solution 
of nitre and water— eight drops to a spoonful of water. As soon 
as the spot disappears, rub the place at once with a cloth wet 
with cold water. If the ink-stains then remain, repeat, making 
the solution stronger. Silver that is not in use may be kept from 
tarnishing by burying it in a box or barrel of oatmeal. The 
most effectual means of taking ink-stains out of paper is to 
soak it in water with which chlorine has been combined. Val- 
uable prints may thus be renovated without damage, as chlorine 
has no effect upon printing ink. 

To Start a Fiee —If vou have no kindling, and feel that oil 
must be used to start the fire, try this method : Take a small 
paper bag, pour a little oil into it, and run with it to the stove; 
in this way you can start a Are quickly without dropping oil on 
the floor, or endangering your life. It would be better not to 
use oil at all for this purpose. 

How TO Use the Oil Stove.— A few suggestions in regard to 
the use of oil stove may be of value to some one who does not 
succeed well in using it. Complaints are frequently made that 
a meal cannot be put hot upon the table if cooked on the single 



MOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 61 

oil stove. My plan is this : If I am to get breakfast by it, the 
first thing is to boil the water for coffee, have.the coffee in the pot, 
with some soft paper stuffed in the nose. When the water 
boils, pour a little on the coffee, cover closely, and set it one 
side. Then warm the potatoes ; when thoroughly cooked, cover 
them and set one side. If beefsteak is preferred to cold meat, 
cook that ; the stove being very hot, it will cook quickly. Then, 
as you take the steak off with one hand, with the other set the 
potatoes back on the stove. While you are preparing the steak 
for the table, the potatoes will be getting hot ; while taking them 
off, set the coffee-pot back on the stove. Of course, one must be 
very quick in her motions. Dinner may in the same way be put 
smoking on the table, and the housewife herself, cool and fresh, 
will enjoy the meal as well as any member of the family. Any 
one who keeps plants in a room where there is no Are at night, 
or in a bay window, may prevent their freezing by lighting the 
oil stove and placing it near them. Canned fruit and vegetables 
may, also, in this way be kept from freezing. One who has 
never tried it will be surprised to notice how much heat is 
given out. 

How TO Clean Gloves.— Get one quart of deodorized ben- 
zine, one drachm of sulphuric ether, one drachm of chloroform, 
and two drachms of alcohol. Cologne oil can be added if de- 
sired. Pour a little of this into a clean bowl, and wash the 
gloves in it as you would wash anything. After the dirt is 
nearly out, rinse in more of the clean fluid. Usually one rins- 
ing is enough, but if the gloves are very much soiled, rinse the 
second time. If the gloves are of cheap kid, it is best to dry 
them on the hand ; but a nice glove, after having been rubbed 
with a soft cloth to smooth out wrinkles, may be hung on a line 
to dry. This preparation is an excellent thing to keep in the 
house, not only for cleaning gloves, but for taking out grease- 
spots from carpets and clothing, and for sponging coat-collars 
and felt hats. 

[THE END.] 



HOW TO COOK.— One of the most instructive books on cooking 
ever published. It contains recipes for cooking meats, fish, 
game, and oysters ; also pies, puddings, cakes, and all kinds 
of pastry ; and a grand 'collection of recipes by one of our 
most popular cooks. Only 10 cents per copy. For sale by 
all newsdealers, or it will be sent to your address, post-paid, 
on receipt of price, 10 cents. Address Frank Tousey, 34 and 
36 North Moore street. New York City. Box 2730. 

HOW TO KEEP AND MANAGE PETS.— Giving complete in- 
formation as to the manner and method of raising, keeping, 
taming, breeding and managing all kinds of pets. Also giv- 
ing full instructions for making cages, nests, etc. Fully ex- 
plained by 28 handsome illustrations, making it the most 
complete book of the kind ever published. Price 10 cents. 
Address Frank Tousey, publisher, 34 and 36 North Moore 
street New York. Box 2730. 



THE BOYS OF NEW YORK 

POCKET LIBRARY. 

Boys, this is just tlie Book you have needed for a long time 



We intend to make the stories contained in this Library the best ever 
published from the pens of our most popular and interesting authors. 
Tbese Libraries contain thirty-two pages, and each number is com- 
plete ii^itsell and handsomely illustrated. 

The following is a list of the latest numbers published of the Boys of 
New York Pocket Library: 

75 AMONG THE THUGS ; OK, Two YANKEE BoTS IN India 

By Hal Standish 

76 LIFE AND DEATH OF JESSE JAMES By D. W. Stevens 

77 THE BLACK BRAVOS By Gaston Game 

78 EBONY EPH, THE COLORED DETECTl VE. By Harry Rockwood 

79 THE BOSS OF THE SCHOOL; OR, Around The World For Fun 

By Captain Will Dayton 

80 THE MAGIC RIFLE By C. Little 

81 FRANK JAMES, THE AVENGER By D. W. Stevens 

82 THE RENEGADE'S DOOM By John Sherman 

83 THE SECRETS OF THE DIAMOND ISLAND 

By Horace Appleton 

84 THE LEAGUE OF FATE By "Noname" 

85 SIMPLE SILAS AMONG THE MOONSHINERS 

By Harry FocKwood 

86 THE THUGS OF NEW ORLEANS By Paul Braddon 

87 LIVES OF THE FORD BOYS By D. W Stevens 

88 DANGER SIGNAL DAVE By Albert J. Booth 

89 THE FIENDS OF PARIS By PauM3raddon 

90 THE ISLAND CAPTIVE By John Sherman 

91 THE BLACK BAND OF NEW YORK By Pan/ Braddon 

92 LOST UNDER GROUND By Horace Appleton 

93 THE CRIMSON COWL By C. Little 

94 FOXY AND BROTHER By Police Captain Howard 

95 TRACKED BY A FIEND J. R. Scott 

96 No. 202; OR, IN LEAGUE WITH THE SECRET SERVICE 

By Lieut. E. H. Kellogg 

97 ICEBERG JACK. THE HERO OF THE ARCTIC. . .By R. T, Emmet 

98 DETECTIVE SLEUTH'S SON By Police Captain Howard 

99 THE SECRET DEN By Don Jenardo 

100 DICK DARNLEY. THE SWITCH BOY By Robert Lennox 

101 THE CAVERN OFDEATH By Gaston Game 

102 JEPPO THE HUNCHBACK By C. Little 

103 IN THECLOUDS WITH A MANIAC By John Sherman 

104 A COUNTRY BOY DETECTIVE By Lieut. E. H. Kellcgg 



ONLY FIVE CENTS. 



Do not fiiil to purchase one from your newsdealer, as they all have 
them on hand, or send five cents to 

FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 

Box 2730. 34 and 36 North Moore St., N. Y. 



THE DENVER DAN AND JAMES BOYS' 

SERIES OF ADVENTURES 

CONTAINED IN 

THE WIDE AWAKE LIBRARY. 



PBICE 5 CENTS EACH. PRICE 5 CENTS EACH. 



Every book complete in itself, and full of startling and exciting 
scenes. Read the following lists of the names and numbers of the 
books already published: 

DENVER DAN SERIES. 

No. 

433 DENVER DAN AND HIS MYSTIC BAND By Noname. 

436 DENVER DAN AND THE ROAD AGENTS By Noname. 

439 DENVER DAN AND THE COUNTERFEITERS By Noname. 

442 DENVER DAN OUTWITTED By Noname. 

446 DENVER DAN THE SHERIFF By Noname. 

450 DENVER DAN'S PERIL By Noname. 

455 DENVER DAN TO THE RESCUE By Noname. 

464 DENVER DAN AND HIS CHUMS By Noname. 

483 DENVER DAN IN NEW YORK By Noname. 

JAMES BOYS' SERIES. 

No. 

440 THE TRAIN ROBBERS, A STORY OF THE 

JAMES BOYS By D. W. Stevens. 

457 THE JAMES BOYS AS GUERRILLAS By D. W. Stevens. 

462 THE JAMES BOYS AND THE VIGILANTES. .By D. W. Stevens. 

466 THE JAMBS BOYS AND THE KU KLUX By D. W. Stevens. 

469 THE JAMES BOYS IN CALIFORNIA By D. W. Stevens. 

474 THE JAMES BOYS AS TRAIN WRECKERS.. By D. W. Stevens. 

479 THE" JAMES BOYS IN MINNESOTA By D. W. Stevens. 

-482 THE JAMES BOYS AS HIGHWAYMEN By D. W. Stevens. 

488 THE JAMES BOYS' LONGEST CHASE By D. W. Stevens. 

490 THE .TAMES BOYS IN MEXICO By D. W. Stevens. 

492 THE JAMES BOYS AT CRACKER NECK By D. W. Stevens. 

514 THE JAMES BOYS AND TIMBERLAKE By D. W. Stevens. 

521 THE JAMES BOYS IN COURT By D. W. Stevens. 

527 THE JAMES BOYS' CAVE By D. W. Stevens. 

Any of the above books are for sale by all newsdealers In the Urrited 
Stateie and Canada, or they will be sent to your address, postage paid, 
on receipt of five cents. Address 

FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 

Box 8730. 34 and 36 North Moore St., N. Y, 



OUR COMIC BOOKS. 

FUN, LAUGHTER AND AM^ SE^' x v^R EVERYBODY 



"these books are superior to any tliat have ever been published. 



CONSULT THE FOLLOWING LIST: 

GOIN<f TO THE COUNTRY by "Bricktop".. Price 10c. 

RFD HOT ^y "Bricktop".. Price 10c. 

A QUIET FOUKTH OF JULY. .by "Bricktop ". .Price 10c. 
GOOD TEMPLARS EXPOSED... by "Bricktop" .Price 10c. 

OX A JLRV by " Bricktop ". .Price 10c. 

MY WIFE'S MOTHER by "Bricktop '. .Price 10c. 

THE BALD-HEADED CLUB.... by '• Bricktop". .Price 10c. 

OUR SERVANT GIRLS by "Bricktop ..Price 10c. 

WHERE ARE YOU GOING?., .by '♦ Bricktop ". .Price 10c. 

DODGING A CREDITOR by "Ed" Price 10c. 

SHORTS (original humor) "ice luc. 

^^{^'^goiSS^SSkTAiNLECTUREs::::::::::^^^ 

POUNDS OF FUN |rj«| lg«; 

THE TIC KLER i:'rice luc. 

Every book is hamlsomely illustrated by the best comic artists; 
An V one of them is a sure cure for the blues. For sale by all news 
dea^lers or sent to your address, prepaid, on receipt of price, ten centy 
each. Address 

FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 

Box 2730. 34 and 36 North Moore St., N. Y. 



Frank Touse/s 

BY-THE-WAY SERIES, 

sixty four pages of reatilng matter. Every book is a complete num. 
ber. Read the following titles: 

^2 1: r?il'l SS?^«'?*Sv i;iti^:;.v.:;.v.v.i;:;::|icj \Z. 
h I: ^^^ii^t^^ci:-^-::--±^^ : 

No. 5 LADY INxVOCENCE ^»c« I"*' 

Por c^ale bv every newsdealer in the United States and Canada or we 
wUl send them t7you postage free, on receipt of the price. Ad*es8 

FRANK TOUSEY, PubUsher, 

Box 2730, 34 etnd 36 North Moor© St., N. Y. 



i 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



OUR10CE 



USEFUL, INSTRU 




014 184 256 



Containing valuable information on almost every subject, such as 
Writing-, Speaking, Dancing-, Flirting-, Cooking ; also, Rules of 
Etiquette, The Art of Ventriloquism, Uynmastic Exercise, ami 
The Science and Art of Self-l)efense. ' 



BEAD THE FOLLOWING LIST 
HowtoBoTt .... 
How to» Do Tricks 
How to Write Letters . 
How to Cook .... 
How to Entertain an Evening- Party 
How^ to Become Heautiful . 
How to Flirt .... 
HoAv to Become a Ventriloquist 
How to Become Rich . 
How to Box .... 
How to Dance .... 
How to Become an Athlete . 
How to Become a Speaker 
How to Play Cards 
How to Hunt and Fish 
How to Become a Scientist . 
How to Become an Inventor 
The Boys of New York Minstrel Guide 



Price 
Piice 
Price 
Price 
Price 
Price 
Price 
Price 
Pric« 
Price 
Price 
Price 
Price 
Price 
Price 
Price 
Price 



and Joke Book . PHce 

The Shortys' Snaps .... Price 
The Shortys' Jokes . . . Price 

Muldoon's Jokes . . Price 

The Lite of Police Captain Howard . Price 
The Life of Peter Pad . Price 

The Life of Tom Teaser . . . Piice 

The Life of "Ed." . Price 

The Life of Corporal Morgan Rattler Price 
G^em Cook Book No. 1 . . Pi-jce 

Gem Cook Book No. 2 . . Price 

Frank Tousey's United States Distance 
Tables, Pocket Companion and 
Guide ..... Price 
Ireland's Struggles for Liberty and Land Price 

All the above books are for sale by newsdealers throughout 
States and Canada; or they will be sent, postage paid, to vour 
receipt of 10 cents each. 

FRANK TOUSET, Publisher, 



lO Cents 
10 (!ents 
lO Cents 
10 Cents 
lO Cents 
lO Cents 
lO Cents 
10 Cents 
10 Cents 
lO Cents 
lO Cents 
lO Cents 
1 Cents 
lO Cents 
lO Cents 
10 Cents 
10 Cents 

10 Cents 
lO Cents 
lO Cents 
10 Cents 
lO Cents 
lO Cents 
lO (ents 
1 Cents 
lO Cents 
lO Cents 
lO Cents 



10 Cents 
lO Cents; 

the United] 
address. 



Bpx 2730. 



34 and 36 North Moore St., M*. 



LIBRftRY OF CONGRESS 

HWI 

014 184 256 0^ 



