.V«1^QJ^ 



'di 




t 



Given By 
Estate Of Hiss Karia : n-rl n- 





Boston Public Library 

Do not ^ritc in this book or mark It wHh pai or 
pencil. Penalties for so doing are imposed hy Ae 
Revised Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusctte. 


T^is hook zvas issued to the borrozver on the date 
last stamped belccu. 










































1 














i 


















1 


























. 




B. P. L. FORM NO. 809'. 1 . 29 ,<0 -tUM . 



COOKERY 



HOUSEKEEPING 



LONDON : PRINTED BY 

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE 

AND PARLIAMENT STREET 



COOKER\ 



/ 



AND 



HOUSEKEEPING 



A MANUAL OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY FOR 
LARGE AND SMALL FAMILIES 



BY 



MRS HENRY REEVE 



WITH EIGHT COLOURED ILLUSTRATIONS AND 
NUMEROUS WOODCUTS 



/<9 0^ ^ 



SECOND EDITION 

I 



LONDON 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO 

1882 

All rights reserved 



<\1< 



% 






Gh. Lint 21 



PREFACE. 



A FEW WORDS are required to explain the publication 
of this work. The writer has for many years given 
her attention to those branches of domestic economy 
which deal with the food of households on a moderate 
scale, where importance is attached to good cookery 
and to great variety of dishes. It was suggested 
that the experience she had acquired might be of 
use to others ; she therefore offers this book to the 
public. 

It is a compilation, the result of practical expe- 
rience both in the choice of recipes and in the selec- 
tion of menus. 

Hints have been taken from many sources, recipes 
from many books ; the recipes have been revised and 
varied so as to adapt them to fastidious palates and 
to small households ; the hints have been enlarged so 
as to give the principles on which dinners should be 
composed. 

The dishes described are for the most part within 
the reach of moderate means ; the menus contain 



vi PREFACE. 

some elaborate dinners suited to great houses, and 
require a first-class cook. 

Some of the chapters are fuller than others ; that 
on Fish contains illustrations which, it is hoped, will 
be found useful and novel. 

Great pains have been taken with the chapters on 
Vegetables and Salads, and various maigre dishes 
are given, with a view to the tastes and requirements 
of a largely increasing class. 

Some of the recipes will be useful only in towns, 
others only in the country. It is hoped that the 
greater portion of them and the early chapters will 
give help not only in English households, but in 
those of the United States and in our colonies. 

The writer has been assisted by the kindness of 
some friends whose experience of the cookery of 
other countries, and whose critical taste, have made 
their contributions very valuable, and by others 
whose knowledge of small households enables them 
to place at her disposal their dishes and dietaries. 
To these friends she tenders her best thanks. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Introductory i 

11. On the Art of giving Dinners 3 

III. Filling the Larder 13 

IV, Kitchen, Larder, and Scullery ... 19 
V. Kitchen Utensils 23 

VI. Dishing up . . . . . . .28 

VII. Serving the Dinner and Waiting . . . 31 

VIII. The Dinner Table 35 

IX. Expenditure 45 

X. Defects in English Cookery .... 52 

XI. Dress of the Cook 56 

XII. The Chief Operations of Cookery ... 58 

XIIL Soups . . 70 

XIV. Fish loi 

XV. Beef I44 

XVI. Mutton and Lamb 157 

XVII. Veal 174 



viii COXTEA'TS. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XVIII. Pork 190 

XIX. Poultry .,198 

XX. Game 222 

XXI. Various Savoury Dishes 239 

XXII. Savoury Dishes without Meat . . . 249 

XXIII. Sauces 269 

XXIV. Garnishes and Accessories .... 293 
XXV. Vegetables 309 

XXVI. Salads 351 

XXVII. Sweet Dishes and Sauces 359 

XXVIII. Preserves 412 

XXIX. Ices 422 

XXX. Bread and Cakes 433 

XXXI. Cookery for Invalids 450 

XXXII. Menus 460 

XXXIII. Homely Bills of Fare 505 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



PLATES. 



1. SALMON, COMMON TROUT, SEA TROUT, GRAYLING, 
CARP ....... 

IL TURBOT, BRILL, PLAICE 

III. SKATE, SOLE, FLOUNDER .... 

IV. COD, POLLACK, HADDOCK, WHITING, SMELT 

V. SPRATS, HERRING, WHITEBAIT, JOHN DORY 

GURNARD 

VI. STURGEON, RED MULLET, GREY MULLET, PIL 

CHARDS 

VII. PERCH, TENCH, PIKE, CHAR, SHAD . 
VIII. MACKEREL, SEA BREAM, EEL, LAMPERN, LAM 
PREY, CONGER EEL .... 



Frontispiece 
To face p. 104 
no 

114 

118 

126 
132 

I-.8 



WOODCUTS IN TEXT. 



cooking stove . 

cradle spit . 

silver border . 

nottlngham jar . 

saut£-pan . 

wire lining of frying- 
PAN .... 

WIRE BASKET FOR FRYING 

QUENELLES FOR GARNISH- 
ING SOUP 

COPPER FISH-KETTLE 

COPPER STEWPAN 

CUTLETS UNTRIMMED AND 
TRIMMED 

MUTTON CUTLETS . 

SHAPES OF CUT VEGE- 
TABLES 

KIDNEYS 

TOASTING FRAME . 

PAPER FOR CUTLETS 

LARDED CUTLET 



PAGE 




PAGE 


. 23 


' PAIN ' OF calf's LIVER 


182 


. 26 


QUENELLES 


184 


. 29 


CHICKEN, CUT UP 


199 


• 59 


SHEFFIELD BAKING PAN . 


215 


. 61 


BARDED QUAILS . 


233 




TRIVET FOR ROASTING . 


235 


. 62 


CROQUETTES 


242 


• 63 


KEOMESKIS 


243 




RAVIOLI 


245 


• 74 


TIMBALES 


246 


. 105 


CROUTONS OF ASPIC JELLY 


300 


• 159 


GLAZE POT . 


303 




SHAPES OF CUT VEGETABLE 


5 355 


. 161 


MOULD GARNISHED WITIr 




. 162 


PRESERVES 


364 




PEACHES WITH RICE . 


373 


. 164 


POLISH BABA . 


387 


. 168 


ORANGE BASKETS 


403 


. 169 


ICE MACHINE . 


423 


• 173 


MOULD A PARFAIT 


432 


• 177 


VEAL CUTLET A LA DR£UX 


463 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

There are so many cookery books in existence, from 
the MS. recipe-book of the old-fashioned country- 
house to the elaborate productions of Gogue and 
Francatelli, that the attempt to add another to the 
list may well be deemed presumptuous. The house- 
wife is already embarrassed by the ample choice, and 
also feels that the practical difficulty does but begin 
where the cookery book ends. Which dish of all those 
she has seen described is she to attempt } How many 
dishes must be provided for the stated number of 
guests ) What class of viands does the position, local 
and economical, of her family render suitable at the 
table? The dishes must not only be well chosen and 
well cooked, but they require to be properly served 
and brought to each guest. It is with the view of 
giving advice on these and some other points that the 
present book is written. 

B 



2 INTRODUCTORY. 

To preside over a well-ordered house, and to 
provide suitable meals for her family and household, 
are the duties of every wife, and of many women who 
are not wives. The object of this book will be to 
help women to discharge their duties by explaining 
some of the rules of housekeeping ; by giving bills of 
fare, so arranged as to suit various incomes, tastes, and 
habits ; and by furnishing recipes for cooking such 
dishes as are palatable, useful, and economical. 

It follows of necessity that our book assumes 
some previous acquaintance with the subject, on the 
part of the lady who orders, and the servant who 
cooks a dinner. The lady has had experience of her 
father's and of her friends' tables ; she must know how 
many meals are expected in the day, and whether the 
income and occupations of the husband and sons 
render it desirable for the chief meals to be dinner at 
midday with supper at night, or a luncheon followed by 
a late dinner. The cook has either been out as kitchen- 
maid, or has had some training under another servant. 
If mistress and servant are alike without experience, 
they should attend a local school of cookery. Certain 
things are learned quicker and better by example than 
by precept. It is hardly possible to teach in a book 
how to truss a bird, to lard a fricandeau, or to make 
light pastry. It is desirable that both mistress and 
servant should attend the school of cookery, as there 
are some processes and details which will be best 
understood by the more refined taste of the mistress, 
and on which she can dwell afterwards in giving orders, 
whilst there are other details which the cook seizes all 
the better for hearing them described by a lecturer. 



HOW TO GIVE DLWYERS. 



CHAPTER II. 

ON THE ART OF GIVING DINNERS. 

It may be assumed that every host and hostess who 
entertain their friends desire to give them as good a 
dinner as their means and the resources of their esta- 
bhshment permit. As far as this depends on the pro- 
ficiency of the cook and the preparation of the repast, 
the subject will be treated of in other parts of this 
little volume. But there are other considerations, of 
no less importance to the success of the entertainment, 
which more immediately concern the master and 
mistress of the house, and if these are overlooked vain 
are the labours of those who cook the dinner ; the 
party is dull and the repast insipid. 

We shall venture, therefore, to offer to our readers 
a few plain remarks on the art of giving dinners, 
which are equally applicable to persons in every con- 
dition of life who are capable of giving a dinner at all. 

And first we would recommend that no one should 
attempt to offer to their friends a dinner out of keeping 
with their own position in life and their own resources. 
A judicious host will endeavour to place before them 
a dinner based on his own mode of living at its best. 
To attempt to copy or to rival the entertainments 
given by persons of larger means is in itself a piece of 



4 HOW TO GIVE DINNERS. 

vulgarity. It perplexes the cook ; it agitates the hosts; 
and the guests soon find out that it is a lamentable 
failure. Perhaps the greatest defect of the dinners 
given by the middle classes in England is the want of 
simplicity and ease. Too much food is prepared ; too 
many dishes are offered ; the servants in attendance 
are confused ; and the meal is too protracted. The 
object of a good dinner-party is not to make a display 
of plate, china, flowers, or cookery, nor to gorge the 
party with the endless viands of a City feast, but to 
promote agreeable social intercourse and cheerful con- 
versation, and to leave on the memory of those who 
have been invited to it the impression that they have 
passed a pleasant evening. 

To accomplish this object, the first condition is a 
judicious choice of the number and fitness of the 
guests. The best number of guests for an agreeable 
party we hold to be twelve, and it should not in an 
ordinary establishment exceed fourteen. There is no 
greater mistake than to suppose that when a dinner- 
party has been arranged on that footing, one or two 
couples more can -be added to it with impunity. The 
table should never, on any account, be crowded. 
Each guest should have space to sit with ease and 
comfort. The great object of the host should be to 
promote general conversation, and as long as the party 
is limited in numbers, this is not difficult, the best 
talkers naturally taking the lead in suggesting topics 
of interest. In large dinners general conversation 
becomes impossible, and you are at the mercy of the 
persons who chance to be your next neighbours. It 
is impossible to get beyond them. 



CHOICE OF GUESTS. 5 

Some givers of dinners hold that it is essential 
to pair off all their guests, male and female, like the 
animals when they entered the ark ; but in our judg- 
ment this is a mistake. There should always be at 
least two men in excess of the number of ladies pre- 
sent. They promote conversation, and in the event 
of the failure of one of the male guests, they avoid 
embarrassment. 

In framing the invitations for a dinner-party, it is 
desirable that the host and hostess should start from 
some central point in the selection of their guests, such 
as the presence of some person of interest to whom 
they wish to pay a mark of courtesy and respect. 
The character of the principal guest gives, as it were, 
a colour to the party, and the other members of it 
should be chosen with some reference to the first in- 
vitation. It is never expedient to invite persons of 
widely different political opinions, or very dissimilar 
social position, or persons wholly unknown to each 
other, nor on the other hand persons too nearly related 
or connected either by birth or the business of life. 
The success of a dinner depends in a great degree on 
the mutual fitness of the guests, and their friendly re- 
lations, ivlany a dinner has been spoiled by the pre- 
sence of one discordant element. Nevertheless when 
such a misfortune does occur, good breeding on 
the part of the guests requires that they should lay 
aside their differences and endeavour to conceal from 
the master and mistress of the house that they have 
unconsciously made a mistake. Invitations to a set 
dinner-party should generally be sent out a fortnight 
beforehand. The dinner-hour amongst the upper 



6 PRECEDENCE. 

classes in London is novv' so universally established by 
custom at eight o'clock, that it is vain to attempt to 
secure the attendance of a party at an earlier time ; 
but it is of great importance to establish, if possible, a 
reputation for punctuality, and not to wait a moment 
after all the ladies have arrived. 

The next step is the classification of the guests, 
which ought to be done by the lady of the house, 
when the signal of departure is given. But it is not 
unusual for the master of the house to make his 
arrangements somewhat earlier, having the names 
written down on paper. This is not done, however, 
in the best society, and should be done from memory 
viva voce^ if at all. When persons of any distinct 
social rank are present, their precedence must be 
carefully observed. Nothing affronts people more 
than to find that their precedence is not recognised 
or understood. But it is the precedence of the 
ladies which regulates the order of the dinner. A 
commoner who takes down a lady of rank takes pre- 
cedence of a man of rank above his own. The master 
of the house, of course, takes out the lady of highest 
rank and goes first, because she has precedence of 
everyone else. The gentleman of highest rank re- 
mains to the last and hands down the lady of the 
house. The intermediate couples are arranged ac- 
cording to their rank, or, if there be no question of 
rank, according to age and fitness. The two or more 
men who are unattached follow in the rear. 

This being arranged, the company take their 
places ; and on this again much of the success of a 
dinner depends. It is essential that everyone should 



PLACING GUESTS. 7 

be seated next to persons agreeable to himself. A 
fashion now generally prevails, even in good houses, 
of writing the names of the guests on cards, or on the 
back of the ine?iu, at the places to be occupied by each 
of them, by which means the plan of the dinner is 
pre-arranged. As, however, the master of the house 
precedes his guests and takes his place first at table, 
it is equally effective, and more graceful, if he requests 
each couple to take a given seat as they enter the. 
dining-room. In a large party the system of cards is 
unavoidable, but it occasions confusion from people in 
search of their seats, like children playing-hunt-the 
slipper. 

When the party consists of persons not previously 
known to each other, or where a stranger is present, 
half the time which ought to be devoted to eating and 
conversation is frequently spent in vain efforts to dis- 
cover the name, character, and connexions of one's 
neighbours, and sometimes one m.ay be betrayed by 
this ignorance into making inappropriate remarks 
which are embarrassing to both parties. This should 
as far as possible be avoided by a timely explanatory 
remark from the host, which puts the guests at their 
ease by making them better known to one another, 
and gives, as it were, the cue to conversation. 

The shape, size, and arrangement of the dinner- 
table are not matters of indifference. For a party not 
exceeding twelve a round table has some advantages, 
especially if the dining-room is broad or square. But 
a very large round table is a mistake, as it is im- 
possible to talk across it and it is difficult to cover so 
large a space with appropriate decorations. As no 



8 SEATS AT TABLE. 

dishes are now placed on the table, a narrow table 
suffices, and it brings the guests on both sides of it 
into closer contact. It is highly undesirable to block 
up the centre of the table with huge ornaments, 
whether of plate, flowers, candelabra or other de- 
corations, because they intercept the conversation of 
the guests, which is ever to be considered the primary 
object. For this reason a hanging lamp, suspended 
over the table, is preferable to lamps or lustres placed 
upon the table ; and the light is more agreeable to 
the eye. 

If the table is a long one, the master and mis- 
tress of the house may sit either at the top and 
bottom of it, or, as is now very usual, in the middle 
at the sides. The former practice has this incon- 
venience, that the most important guests are sepa- 
rated from each other by the whole length of the 
table, and consequently cannot converse during the 
meal at all. A good story told or a good point 
made at one end sets the other end wondering what 
the other pole of the dinner is laughing at. The 
space between the two ends is occupied by guests of 
minor mark, who are non-conductors of the electricity 
of society. When, on the contrary, the master and 
mistress of the house are seated in the middle of the 
table at the sides, the principal guests are gathered 
round a common centre, conversation may be more 
easily conducted across the board, and it radiates to 
the extremities. 

Having seated our guests round the table, we will 
leave them to entertain themselves there ; it is their 
business to contribute to the pleasure and gaiety 



IVJNES. 9 

of the dinner. We will only add that the master 
of the house should keep a ready eye and an open 
ear on the flow of conversation ; he should take care 
that each guest is made acquainted with the person 
next to whom he is seated ; and if the conversation 
flags or seems to take an unpleasant turn he can 
easily revive or divert it by a question or a remark 
flung across the table. 

It may be worth while here to add a few words on 
the serv'ice of the wines which are handed during the 
dinner, as it is no longer the custom in England to 
place any wine on the table during dinner. After the 
soup, Sherry or Sherry and Madeira are produced, 
and most people take one glass. After the fish, the 
white wines of the Garonne or the Rhine, Sauterne or 
Hock (either of them, but never both), are served. 
Champagne should not make its appearance till after 
the first entree, and light claret should be offered at 
the same time, as so many persons now make claret 
their chief beverage. Later in the dinner claret of a 
finer growth may be introduced. So little wine is now 
drunk after dinner, that it is a mistake to reserve all 
the best wines for the dessert, when they are very 
often scarcely consumed. At that stage a glass or two 
of old Port wine or brown Sherry, as a vin de dessert, 
are commonly preferred, but the claret decanters should 
circulate two or three times round the table after the 
ladies leave the room. The interval which divides the 
party should not exceed ten or fifteen minutes. Coffee 
is served in the dining-room, and with that ceremony 
the dinner ends. In some of the best houses in 
London, cigarettes are now handed round with the 



lo CHANGE OF FASHIONS. 

coffee, which slightly prolongs the separation of the 
party, though not so long as the fatal practice of re- 
tiring to \hQ fiunoir^ which is now almost universal in 
Paris ; but although this custom of mitigated smoking 
after dinner is sanctioned by very high examples, it is 
more honoured in the breach than in the observance, 
and it is scarcely consistent with the attention due to 
the fairer portion of society. 

About forty years ago a little work on the art of 
giving dinners was published by Mr. Walker, the 
author of ' The Original,' which acquired considerable 
celebrity and some authority, and has even been re- 
published in our own times. But nothing can more 
clearly demonstrate the entire change of the fashions 
which preside over the dinner-table than a perusal of 
Mr. Walker's commentary on them. He recommends 
the utmost simplicity, and would invite his friends to 
dine off a slice of salmon and a woodcock. Modern 
dinners are remarkable for their extreme variety. 
The classic saddle of mutton and boiled chickens, 
which used to make their invariable appearance at the 
two ends of the board, to be carved by the host and 
hostess, are as extinct as the roast goose of the last 
century. In place of an elaborate display of corner 
dishes, some of them of an architectural character, we 
have ornaments and flowers. A in otic or programme 
of the dinner ought to be placed within reach of 
each guest. In the houses of the wealthy these are 
commonly printed, sometimes with great elegance. 
In small houses a white slate or porcelain slab sup- 
plies their place. But it is essential that the guest 
should know what he has to expect, and how to re- 



VARIETY OF FOOD. ii 

gulate his choice. Much is to be said {J)ace Mr. 
Walker) in defence of the variety of modern cookeiy. 
We are convinced that it is far more wholesome, as 
well as more agreeable, to partake of several dishes of 
a different composition, than to dine off a solid slice 
of beef or mutton, provided the golden rule be ob- 
served, never to eat too miich of any one of them. A 
very small portion of each dish is enough, and it is 
hardly necessary to add that no one but an alderman 
ever repeats his allowance and asks for a second 
helping. Une fois de chaqiie plat is said to be the 
maxim of a great French authority, and, provided the 
entrees and the entremets do not exceed two of each 
class, which is quite enough, we do not think it a bad 
one. A good deal of French cookery has now been 
introduced even into English middle-class households. 
We hope this little volume may tend to increase the 
use of it, for dishes cooked in the French fashion are 
generally light and digestible, equally good for the 
palate and the stomach. But it should be remembered 
that a well-cooked dish is complete in itself. Its 
character is destroyed by the peculiar British habit 
of accumulating vegetables, sauces, and miscellaneous 
additions upon the same plate to be eaten at the same 
time. The various parts of a dinner ought to be 
served in succession and not eaten together or pro- 
miscuously. 

In justice to the givers of the dinners and the cook, 
each guest should know what he is eating — always 
moderately, the more moderately the better — but not 
without discernment. The best result of a well- 
managed dinner is that the guests should rise from 



12 IMPORTANCE OF AIR. 

it without lassitude, and with a slight remnant of 
appetite. 

To accomplish this, one more requisite is necessary, 
which we had almost forgotten, but we will place it at 
the end of these remarks, because it is the most essen- 
tial of all. The dining-room must be well ventilated, 
the guests must have not only meats and drinks, but 
air. The company present, the servants, the lights, 
consume a vast amount of oxygen, and the atmo- 
sphere is vitiated by the strong odour of the dishes and 
sauces as they are brought into the room. Many a 
time have we seen a promising party die off into dul- 
ness and silence under the influence of these dele- 
terious gases, and, if the spirit of the party is to be 
kept alive, fresh air is more indispensable to it than 
champagne. 



THE LARDER, 13 



CHAPTER III. 

FILLING THE LARDER. 

To provision the larder is of course the first duty of 
the housewife, and it requires foresight and judgment. 
In towns the wants of a family may be easily supplied 
from the respective tradesmen ; in the country the 
larder is more dependent on circumstances, and some of 
the following remarks are only applicable to country 
life. It must be borne in mind that there are but five 
kinds of butcher's meat, and that these varieties are 
more or less in season at different periods of the year. 

It is important to ascertain how often beef is killed, 
and to give such orders as will secure the joint or steak 
being hung till tender, and the stock meat being sent 
before the gravy is dried up by hanging. The silver 
side and round which are to be salted must hang a 
shorter time than the joints intended for roasting, but 
they must be hung a certain time. 

Mutton is killed more frequently than beef, and in 
giving orders for mutton the attention must be directed 
to saddles, legs, &c., being hung long enough to be 
tender, and to necks of mutton being supplied when 
newly killed, so that the scrag ends may be used at 
once for the stock pot. 



14 BUTCHER'S MEAT. 

Veal is killed frequently in the spring, barely 
once a week at some seasons of the year. Sweet- 
breads and particular joints niust be ordered long in 
advance. 

Lamb when in season can be substituted for mut- 
ton : it is always higher in price. 

Pork is not always popular either with masters or 
servants. A roast loin of pork with apple sauce, or a 
boiled leg — slightly salted — with pease-pudding, are, 
however, excellent dishes when the pork is of good 
quality. Small delicate pork cutlets, with a puree of 
tomato, make a variety as an entree. The rule as to 
season should be the same as with oysters : fresh pork 
is in season in those months which have an R in them. 

A fillet of veal, stuffed and well roasted, a loin, with 
toast served under and the kidney as its garnish, a 
fricandeau carefully braised, will find favour in some 
houses ; and for entrees, such as creme de volaille, 
quenelles, grenadins, scallops, for white stock, savoury 
and sweet jelly, veal is a necessity. 

The monotony of ' butcher's meat ' day after day 
is a trial to the palate ; it is well therefore that greater ~ 
facilities of communication now enable game to be 
sold in our large towns at moderate prices, and it may 
be remarked that there is therefore another side to the 
complaint, Lord So-and-So sells all his game. The 
quality of meat in England is not what it used to be. 
Mutton at fifteen months can never be good eating. 
Beef is generally over-fat. In France neither pro- 
ducers nor consumers desire the over-fed, over-fat 
animals seen in our showyards and butchers' shops. 
What the consumer wants is good juicy meat, with no 



POULTRY AND GAME. 15 

more than the average amount of fat — all beyond that 
is useless, yet it must not the less be paid for. 

Having settled the days when it is possible to serve 
beef, other intervening days must be arranged with 
mutton as the chief dish, and poultry or game as the 
secondary dish — or with mutton cutlets as a substan- 
tial entree, and poultry (a turkey, for instance) as the 
chief dish. 

At large dinners there is always one joint of meat, 
and poultry or game as the second roast. 

When there is one entree and one roast, if the 
entree is of poultry the roast must be of meat, and 
vice versa. 

Poultry is to be had all the year round ; it is the 
price and quality which vary. The thrifty manager will 
not buy spring chickens or ducks at their inevitably 
high prices. She will rather provide an alternative 
dish within the compass of her means. 

Price apart, turkeys, geese, and full-grown chickens 
are to take the place of the roast joint of meat on cer- 
tain days, and on those days the entree, or one of the 
entrees, should be cutlets of mutton, or slices of fillet 
of beef 

Game and venison are the most attractive and 
valuable contributions to the larder and to the dinner- 
table ; but those who possess * shootings ' often have 
too much of a good thing, and the palate wearies, the 
digestion suffers from 'toujours perdrix,' venison soup, 
pasty, hash, or haunch, hare whether roast or jugged, 
roast grouse fourteen days running, or pheasant for the 
same time, the only variety being that of ' tough ' or 
* tainted.' 



i6 ROTATION OF SUPPLIES. 

The young housekeeper in remote parts of the 
country must not only acquire the art of ordering 
dinner, but must also learn to take advantage of such 
exceptional delicacies as circumstances place within 
her reach. There may be five-year-old mutton from 
the hillside, and a larder in which it can be kept for 
the three weeks necessary to secure perfection ; there 
may be trout fresh from loch or stream in perplexing 
superabundance, or oysters only obtainable at neap 
and spring tide yet welcome every day, or crabs and 
crayfish small in size yet delicious when made into 
miniature parton pies. 

There will also be difficulties to overcome, as 
when no fish is obtainable and maigre dishes must 
be served. We will not attempt to give instances 
here, but rather refer our reader to the various sub- 
stitutions and combinations which will be pointed out 
in the chapters on menus and vegetables. 

A good manager must calculate beforehand what 
the requirements of her table will be for the week, in 
the dining-room, and in the servants' hall ; on what 
days there are to be guests, or extra guests if there are 
already friends staying in the house, and she must 
prepare orders for the butcher, and for the supplies of 
fish and poultry. In the country the rotation of dishes 
should be arranged with reference to the supply of 
beef. The joint on one or two days, or if not the 
joint, the substantial dish, will be beef. The meat 
must have hung a certain time ; therefore having ascer- 
tained on what days beef is killed, it can be settled on 
what later day there is to be roast beef, rump steak, 
&c., and it is known on what dd^y fresh stock-beef is 
to be had. 



VEGETABLES, CREAM, EGGS. 17 

In the country forethought and ingenuity are re- 
quired to keep the larder suppHed with materials ; to 
eke out butcher's meat, perhaps procurable only once 
a week, by salt meat, poultry, &c.; to bespeak just such 
a supply in summer as can be consumed whilst in 
good order; to secure in winter a due number of joints 
which by hanging in the larder are known to be 
tender. Butchers as a rule will not hang meat ; it 
loses in weight, and they have to bear the risk of a 
change in the temperature, as well as the certainty of 
the loss in weight. 

Again, it requires ingenuity to make common 
vegetables take the place of the rarer kinds when the 
garden or gardener is in fault; to produce a second dish 
of fish from the remains of yesterday when the supply 
is deficient ; to provide other sweet dishes than those 
made with eggs, when the time of the year and the 
temper of the hens render the demands of the break- 
fast table those only to be met. 

And it requires firmness and forethought to get 
good butter, cream, and milk, that is, the due quantity 
of each, without extravagance or pinching, from the 
home dairy or the milkman, and to restrain within 
bounds the ardour of the cook. 

It is true that in towns where all manner of comes- 
tibles are obtainable, the forethought of the housewife 
is less severely taxed. The question of expense is here 
the important point. On that question, too, some obser- 
vations will be found. Plain English fare, that is, large 
joints simply dressed by roasting or boiling, and served 
with no other sauce than their own good gravy, pos- 
sess high merit ; but English beef and mutton are not 

C 



1 8 LARGE JOINTS. 

what they used to be. If the ox is to take his Norman 
name at eighteen months and the sheep at twelve, it 
will be absolutely necessary to impart flavour and to 
create gravy by the assistance of French recipes. 
It must, too, be borne in mind that plain English 
cookery is only suited to the best joints, and that an 
adherence to large joints implies a steadfast love of 
cold meat not always found amongst either masters 
or servants. 

It has been ascertained by experiments made in 
public institutions that a smaller quantity of food is 
consumed and a larger measure of health is secured 
when the food is varied in kind and cooked in various 
ways. And in point of economy, to provide for the 
food of a family by an ample supply of large plain 
joints tells heavily upon the butcher's bills, which may 
be judiciously reduced by the art of cooking less sub- 
stantial dishes. 



CLEAXLLYESS IN KITCHEN AND LARDER. 19 



CHAPTER IV. 

KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY. 

That the kitchen should be kept sweet and neat, the 
pots and pans scrupulously clean ; that the sieves, 
strainers, the chopping machine, the cutters, the 
pastry board or shelf, should be freed from all particles 
adhering after use ; that there should be a place for 
everything, and that ever}-thing should be in its place — 
these are elementary truths. 

The floor of the kitchen and scullery must be 
washed every day. The tables must be scrubbed with 
soap, soda, and water. The dresser must be dusted 
daily and washed once a week or oftener. 

The stewpans, saucepans, fish-kettles, frying and 
saute pans must be kept clean and bright inside and 
outside. The copper pans must be re-tinned once 
a year ; it is far better to spend a little more on re- 
tinning than to run the risk of copper-poisoning in 
the food. 

The rule should be that every article used by the 
cook is to be put back in its place after use as clean 
and bright as if it were new. 

The sink must be kept clear of all solid matter, 
and the tubs or buckets used in washing dishes and 

c 2 



20 STORLXG PROVISIONS. 

emptying away animal and vegetable scraps must be 
most carefully cleansed. 

Before washing the dishes, all the bits of broken 
meat, &c. should be sorted into separate plates, and 
the refuse only thrown into the tub or buckets for 
pigs' wash. It is easier also to clean saucepans before 
the sticky remains of food have got hard in them. 

Wooden utensils require soap, or soda and water. 
Plates and dishes that have been used are dipped in 
cold water, after being washed clean in hot water, 
then wiped and put in the rack. 

When poultry are drawn and fish cleaned on the 
premises, special arrangements are necessary to dis- 
pose of the entrails, &c. in the speediest way. The 
game larder requires the greatest attention, as game is 
brought in already tainted by the mode of killing and 
carrying in hot or muggy weather. 

The best thing to do with a game larder is to lay 
broken charcoal in a long narrow basket (such as 
would fit a window sill) on the floor. Or to build a 
little sloping drain for holding charcoal. If there are 
many hares in the larder, this precaution is essential. 
At the end of a week the charcoal must be changed 
and burnt in the kitchen, where it is of the greatest 
use. It has absorbed all the impurities of the game 
larder, but in burning it disposes of them. 

As the ordering and storing of provisions must 
precede the cooking them, it is desirable to consider 
what space is set apart for ' keeping ' meat and 
perishable provisions, and for the storing of groceries. 

The larder must be cool and lofty ; the temperature 
should never rise above 50° Fahrenheit in sum- 



COXSTRUCTIOX OF LARDERS. 21 

mer, or fall below ;^'^° in winter. The shelves should 
be of slate, and the walls lined with white glazed 
tiles. The windows must be arranged to secure ven- 
tilation, and to exclude flies. There must be outside 
blinds, or shutters, and the aspect should be north. 
The size of the larder is in proportion to that of 
the house and household, and it is also necessary to 
take into consideration whether the meat is supplied 
by the butcher in comparatively small quantity, or 
from the home farm in large quantity. In towns, as 
the supply of meat is almost always derived from the 
butcher, a large larder is not required, but space for 
storage of some quantity of meat is necessary, as there 
are Sundays and holidays when the butcher does 
not send, and it is quite as wasteful to buy meat 
in very small quantities, as it is to cook it in very 
large quantities. Poultry can be kept in the meat 
larder. Game should be kept in a separate place. In 
large houses there should be a fish larder with a 
slanting slate shelf and a tap of water. 

It sometimes happens that the conditions which 
will produce an equable temperature are to be found 
underground, in a cellar or an outhouse : a meat safe 
with lock and key will be useful in such cases. 

There must be a larder for cooked meats and for 
stock, which should never be placed in the meat 
larder. It would be well to have another larder for 
meat in salt, for bacon, and hams. But in too many 
houses there is but one larder for everything. 

Whether there are many larders, or only one, 
the most scrupulous cleanliness must be observed ; 
the cleanliness of precautionary measures, as well as 



22 PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 

that of washing-, scrubbing, Hme-washing, and paint- 
ing. 

Each different joint has its part Hable to taint 
before the whole joint is tender enough to be cooked ; 
every animal and vegetable substance has its group of 
enemies ready to deface and to disintegrate its struc- 
ture. It is necessary to combat these enemies by 
many means. Sometimes to remove portions of the 
meat, to wipe the surface, to dry by the application of 
flour and pepper, to place powdered charcoal inside 
poultry, to parboil or to half roast in very muggy 
weather. But alwa}'S to keep every nook and corner 
and cranny free from dust, germs, or taint ; which, as 
dust, germs, and taint are being produced every day, 
requires unceasing vigilance, and it is imperative al- 
ways to be on guard against smells and taints from 
drains and utensils. 

Carbolic acid in the proportion of half a pint to a 
bucketful of cold water is useful, and it is well four 
times a year to wash the tiled walls, slate, slabs, and 
floor with it. 



KITCHEN UTENSILS. 



23 



CHAPTER V. 

KITCHEN UTENSILS. 

The lists here given are on a very moderate scale, 
suitable to small families ; more fish-kettles and stock- 
pots, saute pans and saucepans can easily be added. 



/ 

COOKING STOVE. 




Moulds of varied form and shape in tin and copper 
are to be seen in every ironmonger's shop, and cooks 



24 KITCHEN UTENSILS. 

are too apt to ask for new shapes, and to think more 
of the form in which a jelly or a cream is served than 
of the clearness of the jelly and the flavour of the 
cream. But there should be moulds to hold different 
quantities, quarts and pints, and of course when double 
dishes are served there must be double sets of moulds. 
The best grate or hot-plate for cooking purposes has 
yet to be devised. The old-fashioned open range 
roasts admirably, but it does everything else very 
badly. A hot-plate, or gas rings, or charcoal fires in 
a hot-plate must exist in every kitchen where there is 
to be varied cookery. There must be a boiler for hot 
water and a baking oven. In France a combination 
of hot-plate, oven, boiler and open fire is to be seen 
in the kitchen of all the hotels, presided over in 
general by the ' Host,' who is both landlord and cook, 
and therefore a judge of the amount of fuel it con- 
sumes as well as of the ordinary advantages it offers. 
This hot-plate is never imbedded in masonry, and is 
always so placed that the light falls on it, a very im- 
portant point in frying. 

List of Kitchen Utensils. No. I. 

Pestle and mortar ; 2 baking sheets ; 6 dish covers ; 
freezing machine ; 2 dessert ice moulds ; I ice pudding 
mould ; i spice box ; turbot kettle ; 2 fish kettles ; 
dripping pan and ladle ; 2 preserving pans ; 4 gravy 
strainers ; 2 ^gg whisks ; 2 frying baskets ; i sala- 
mander, bain-marie pan, jelly bag and stand, season- 
ing box, omelette pan, cutlet pan ; 3 cook's knives ; 
I pallet knife ; i large kitchen fork ; 6 copper stew- 



KITCHEN UTENSILS. 25 

pans; stock-pot; 12 enamelled saucepans ; i boiler ; 

1 braizing-pan ; 3 frying-pans ; I colander ; 6 yorkshire 
pudding tins ; 6 copper moulds ; 6 tin moulds ; 4 
border moulds ; 3 larding needles ; 2 trussing needles ; 

2 sets of skewers ; i saw ; i chopper ; i cutlet bat, 
pasteboard, rolling-pin, flour tub, weights and scales, 
mincing knife ; 2 wire sieves ; 2 hair sieves ; 2 tamis 
bats; 2 tamis cloths; 12 wooden spoons; 6 iron 
spoons ; i box of French cutters ; i box of paste 
cutters ; 2 paste brushes ; I biscuit pricker ; 12 patty 
pans ; 2 tea kettles, toasting fork, gridiron ; 2 wash- 
ing-up tubs ; 2 wooden pails ; i zinc pail. 



List of Kitchen Utensils. No. II. 

I boiler ; i 4-gallon iron saucepan ; i 2-gallon iron 
saucepan ; i tin ^g<g saucepan ; i small stewpan 
(iron) ; i three-gallon saucepan (iron) ; i quart 
enamelled saucopan ; i pint enamelled saucepan ; 
I 3-quart iron kettle ; i pint tin kettle ; I large tin 
colander ; i iron dripping pan ; i tin yorkshire 
pudding pan ; i 2-quart milk can with cover ; 4 iron 
spoons ; 12 wooden spoons ; I tin flour dredger ; i tin 
pepper dredger ; i frying-pan ; i nutmeg grater ; i 
spice box ; 2 trivets to hang in front of fire ; i chop- 
ping board ; i chopper ; i hatchet (for breaking bones) ; 
I thick oak board about 12 inches square for cutting 
up meat ; i wooden flour box ; i wooden salt box ; 
I ^gg basket ; i wire salad basket ; i hair sieve ; 4 
pudding basins, various sizes ; 2 pie dishes ; i china 
pastry basin ; 2 moulds ; i vegetable pan ; i earthen- 
ware bread pan with cover ; i bain-marie pan ; 



26 KITCHEN UTENSILS. 

6 copper stewpans, in sizes i^ pints to 5 quarts ; 
3 iron stewpans, in sizes ; i iron digester pot, 3 
gallons ; i copper saute pan ; i copper sugar boiler ; 
I copper preserving pan ; 2 block-tin jelly moulds ; 
I block-tin cake mould ; i block-tin raised pie 
mould ; i wrought-iron omelette pan ; i best tin 
dripping pan ; i cradle spit ; i iron stand for 




CRADLE SPIT. 

dripping-pan ; i basting ladle ; i oval iron boiling 
pot ; I wooden meat screen lined with tin ; i best 
brass bottle jack ; i cutlet bat ; i meat saw ; i meat 
chopper ; i set poultry skewers ; i set steel meat 
skewers ; 2 cook's knives, in sizes ; i root knife ; i 
dishing-up fork ; i set larding needles ; i toasting 
fork ; I fluted bar gridiron ; I hanging gridiron ; 
I frying-pan ; 6 iron saucepans, in sizes ; i large 
iron saucepan with steamer ; 2 enamelled saucepans 
with lips ; i box vegetable cutter ; i fish slice ; i egg 
slice ; i iron tea kettle ; i wire frying basket ; i tin 
colander ; 2 best tin fish-kettles, in sizes ; 2 best tin 
baking sheets ; i pair paste nippers ; i box plain 
round cutters ; i box fluted cutters ; i bread grater ; 
I paste jagger ; a salamander ; 6 iron spoons ; 2 
gravy spoons ; 2 vegetable scoops ; a girdle ; i tin 
funnel ; 2 block-tin gravy strainers ; i dozen tartlette 
pans ; i dozen mince-pie pans ; 6 dariole moulds ; I 
Ggg whisk ; i marble mortar ; i hardwood pestle ; 
3 hair sieves ; i weighing machine and set of weights 



REFRIGERATORS. 27 

to weigh 14 lbs. ; 6 tinned meat hooks ; 2 tamis 
cloths ; 2 corkscrews ; i jelly bag and stand ; i wash- 
hand bowl ; 2 cinder shovels ; i box coffee mill ; a 
mincing machine ; paste board and rolling pin. 

A refrigerator is a great help during the summer 
months in preserving many of the necessary articles 
of food ; and without ice it is difficult to make puff 
paste, and to turn out moulds of jelly, &c. in very hot 
weather. The cost of a refrigerator ranges from 3/. to 
15/. and upwards. It is a miscalculation to purchase 
one which is not large enough to hold a suitable 
quantity of ice and the various articles of food which 
have to be ' kept.' 

Care must always be taken to prevent the odour 
of one edible from being imparted to another, when 
placed in the refrigerator. 



DISHING UP. 



CHAPTER VI. 

DISHING UP. 

Food must not only be well and suitably cooked, but 
it must be sent to table neatly and, if possible, elegantly 
arranged. Joints are to be placed on dishes deep 
enough to hold some gravy, large enough to admit 
of being carved without spilling the gravy, but not of 
disproportionate size. The fish dish should be long 
and narrow for salmon and similarly shaped fish, broad 
for turbot and dories : there should be drainers for each 
size dish. Entrees require care and neatness in 
arranging, and also, it may be observed, in carrying 
from the kitchen to the dining-room, so that the cook's 
care may not be frustrated by the footman's careless- 
ness. Entrees which consist of small pieces of meat, 
&c., must be placed symmetrically in the dish. 
Here the lady can render real service to an inex- 
perienced cook, by preparing a model dish either with 
pieces of bread, or cold cutlets, and with the proper 
quantity of garnish and sauce, when both mistress and 
servant are at leisure. 

The sauce must surround, but not submerge, the 
entree : it is poured from a gravy-cup with a spout, and 
the edge of the dish must be free from drops or 
splashes. If the cutlets after being dressed in a circle 



SIZE AND SHAPE OF DISHES. 29 

are to have a garnish in the centre, that must be heaped 
up and not strewn carelessly ; there must be enough 
and not too much of it. If the cutlets are to be placed 
on a border of mashed potatoes, as is done to prevent 
their shifting, it must be firm so as not to wash away 
with the gravy and make a sort of white mud. Small 
silver or plated hoops are now sold, which are of use 
in keeping the contents of the dish in the proper place. 




SILVER BORDER. 



All those entrees which consist of large timbales 
must be sent up on dishes of a similar shape to the 
timbale —that is, a round mould on a round dish, an 
oval mould on an oval dish ; therefore in buying moulds 
it is necessary to adhere to the shapes of the dishes, 
china or silver, in which they are to be sent up. What 
is called a hash dish, i.e. a deep dish, either oval or 
round, is best not only for hashes, but for jugged hare 
(' civet de lievre '), Irish stew, chicken and rice (' polio 
con arroz '), and those preparations of which the parts 
do not admit of being symmetrically arranged. It is 
desirable to have lining dishes either of metal or china 
(to bear oven-heat) which fit into the dishes sent to 



30 CHOICE OF DISHES. 

table, so that all food prepared ' au gratin ' can come 
to table in the dish in which it has been cooked. The 
cook should be told beforehand which china, silver, or 
glass dishes she is to use, and a silver dish must not 
first undergo a hasty hot-water bath, and then receive 
a mould of jelly. 



SERVING THE DINNER. 31 



CHAPTER VII. 

SERVING THE DINNER AND WAITING. 

In ordering a dinner, it is necessary to consider how 
many dishes the staff in the kitchen can prepare so as to 
send them up hot, and how many the staff in the dining- 
room can hand round without protracting the meal 
and wearying the guests. It is sometimes expedient 
to have one or two cold dishes which the cook can 
prepare beforehand, to be served while she is most busy 
with the next hot dish ; and it may also be expedient 
to select dishes which do not require carving, so as to 
relieve the labours of the butler, and to substitute a 
dish which can be handed round for one that must be 
cut up, at a certain stage of the dinner. 

The old-fashioned mode of setting a number of 
dishes on the table at the same time has been given up ; 
even when the carving is done by the host, or hostess, 
only the dish to be carved is placed on the table. If 
there is only one servant and the dish requires a sauce, 
the small tureen should be placed by the side of the 
host or hostess, so that the servant is not called on 
to hand it round, and the guest is not kept waiting. 

The simplest arrangements must in one sense 
be the rule when only one servant, male or female, 
has to wait at table ; in another sense, however, the 



32 WAITING AT TABLE. 

arrangements are less simple. That is, forethought 
must provide for all the requirements of the guests, and 
condiments must be placed on the table, not on the 
sideboard. Wine, beer, or cider — water, soda water, 
must be placed on the dinner-table, or on a side-table 
close to the host. The various little stands for pepper, 
salt, and mustard, or for sauces, bottles, &c., which can 
now be bought at moderate prices, can be so placed 
that the table need not look ugly or untidy. A grow- 
ing plant dexterously fitted in a china pot (not 
dropped halfway in), or a few flowers and green 
leaves in a low vase, or in various little glass or china 
pots which make a group, will give grace and refine- 
ment to the table. The cloth must be kept free from, 
gravy stains, or a napkin spread over obnoxious spots. 

When two or more servants wait at table, the 
amount of handing round, both of meats and drinks, 
must depend on the number of guests and the style 
of dinner. 

In France, two servants, male or female, or male 
and female, will wait on a dinner-party of twelve 
guests, and a good dinner will be served hot and 
eaten agreeably within the hour. But the guests are 
trained to help each other to wine and water (with 
the exception of the higher class of wine, which is 
handed round), and they are also trained not to 'ask 
for things.' Each dish is self-sufficing. 

In England, one or two sauces and several vege- 
tables are required to make a dish complete, and a 
guest who does not receive a potato with or within a 
second of his slice of mutton looks, or speaks, as an 
injured man. 



I 



WAITLYG AT TABLE. 33 

For a set dinner-party one servant to three or to 
four guests is the rule. The servants or waiters must 
be accustomed to act together, and as they have a 
certain set of rules, if there is to be any deviation 
from the routine to which they are accustomed, a very 
clear explanation and a rehearsal will be necessary. 
The footman who hands the sauce should precede 
the man w^ho hands the fish, and stand behind the 
guest so as to be able at once to offer the sauce, and 
it should be understood that no dish which requires 
accessories should start on its course till the ac- 
cessories are ready to accompany it. ' Why was not 
the mint sauce handed round with the lamb ? ' ' Be- 
cause the cook had not sent it up.' ' I shall mention 
that omission to the cook ; meanwhile you should not 
have cut up and sent round the lamb till its sauce 
was ready.' 

To make sure on this point, in writing the bill of 
fare for the butler ' sauce ' in a bracket should always 
be written against any dish which requires sauce. 

Guests as well as servants have their duties : they 
should not ask for accessories out of the usual order, 
nor for exceptional drinks till the regular serving of 
wine has taken place. It is not creditable, however, 
to the butler if there are no pickles to be had with 
cold meat at luncheon, if the mustard is stale, or the 
pepper castor empty, and if the footman ignores one's 
request for cayenne pepper because he knows that 
condiment is not within reach. 

Drill is the important factor in discipline, and till 
the servants who have to act together, permanent or 
temporary men-servants and waiters, or neat-handed 

D 



34 CARVING. 

table-maids, have been drilled to lay a table, to equip 
a sideboard, to bring up dishes without spilling the 
gravy or shifting the centre of gravity, to hand round 
the proper combinations in the proper order, guests 
will be dissatisfied and hosts humiliated. 

Carving requires a sharp knife, a firm hand, and a 
certain knowledge of anatomy. The number of help- 
ings and guests should be a previous calculation of the 
housekeeper; but an unexpected accession of guests 
will suggest to the carver that each guest must re- 
ceive a smaller helping of fish, or that if each regular 
guest receives a whole snipe, the unforeseen guest will 
get none, and he will carve his dish in less liberal 
portions. French asparagus, though handed round 
in its dish, is generally distributed by the servant, 
three or four heads to a guest being the allowance. 
The same rule is observed in the case of forced straw- 
berries at dessert. 



THE DINNER TABLE, 35 



CHAPTER VIII. 

DECORATION AND ARRANGEMENT OF THE 
DINNER TABLE. 

The table may be round, oval, or rectangular, broad 
or narrow ; it must be capable of being enlarged, so 
as to give room for the maximum number of guests, 
and when only four persons sit at meat, its size must 
not be in excess of their requirements. Lighting 
may be the result of candles or lamps placed on 
the table, or of chandeliers and lamps suspended 
over the table ; these are points to be settled when 
the general fittings-up of the dining-room are being 
arranged, according to the tastes and habits of each 
family. 

The important point is that the equipments and 
decorations should be adapted to the size and shape 
of the table ; that the glass, china, and plate should 
be chosen with taste, and arranged with an eye to the 
general effect ; that the cut flowers, flowering or foliage 
plants should have fitting receptacles, not merely 
be ' put in water ' or dropped into * cache-pots,' but 
that their disposal should show that care as well as 
cost have been at work. 

The table must be covered by a fair linen cloth 
of good design, with no marks of crease or fold, large 



36 ORNAMENTS OF THE TABLE. 

enough to hang well over the sides of the table, not 
so large as to become entangled in the legs of the 
guests. The table napkins are to be of the same 
pattern as the cloth, and large enough to cover the 
knees and hang down a little way. 

The margin of the table is occupied by the knives 
and forks, wine-glasses, tumblers, water-bottles, salt- 
cellars, stands for broken ice in summer, and the little 
stands for pepper and mustard. Wine-glass coolers 
are now seldom used. They take up too much room. 
But there should be three glasses, for sherry, claret, 
and champagne. 

It is usual to put a roll or piece of bread in the 
napkin, which is neatly or curiously folded. The 
result of this arrangement, however, is that the 
guest takes up the napkin without noticing the pre- 
sence of the roll, which disappears under the table, 
and has to be replaced by a fresh one at an incon- 
venient moment for the service. Placing the roll in 
front or by the side of the ' couvert ' is a better plan. 

The lamps or candlesticks and the dessert dishes 
are the other necessary articles on the table. These 
may be placed in a line down the centre of the table, 
if narrow, or in two or three lines if the table is broad. 
On a circular or oval table they would be placed in a 
circle. The treatment of the parts of the table left 
free is the question now to be discussed — How many 
purely ornamental articles are to be placed on the 
table ? how many are at the disposal of the ' table- 
decker ? ' what will look well, of the plate and china, 
in combination with the flowers at his disposal. 

Huge pieces of plate set on the table merely for 



J 



FLOWER DECORATIOXS. ^y 

show often destroy the general effect and impede 
conversation. They are better placed on a sideboard 
or on a velvet-covered dresser. 

China figures, either to hold flowers or as works 
of art, look well, and when flowers are scarce they are 
a great assistance, as a few flowers can be then 
arranged so as to give the colour and life wanted. 

In the hot days of summer ice in the form of 
pyramids is sometimes introduced, to give coolness and 
freshness to the dinner table. The pyramid must be 
surrounded by fern leaves. Much caution as to the 
stand must be observed, as the melted water is apt to 
overflow on the table-cloth. Proper drainage must be 
provided. These pyramids have to be ordered of the 
size desired a day or two beforehand. 

In towns, flowers of every kind can be bought in 
unlimited quantity : the cost is the chief point to be 
considered. How much is to be spent on cut flowers 
or plants? Is the sum to be spent on a few choice 
flowers, or on a large quantity of commoner flowers, 
of ferns, lycopodiums, etc. ? 

In the country a different set of difficulties has to 
be dealt with. The temper of the gardener or the 
state of the garden may suggest moderation in the 
demand for roses. The greenhouse must not be 
stripped for the dining-table, to say nothing of the 
requirements of drawing-rooms, etc. Then again, 
after a certain number of plants have lost their beauty 
by indoor life, only cut flowers, and those in small 
quantities, may be available. Leaves, grapes, berries, 
trails of ivy, may be the only possible decoration ; 
taste and skill must do the rest. 



38 DECKL\G THE TABLE. 

The shape, colour, and length of stem of flowers 
must be taken into account, and there should be a 
supply of shallow glass or china vessels at hand, with 
moss and leaves, to receive hollyhocks, carnations, 
roses, and other flow^ers which cannot be cut with 
long stems, or the next crop would be sacrificed. 
The appropriate foliage must be looked for. A skil- 
ful table-decker at a great country house used to walk 
through the grounds every day in search of new 
combinations, not being content with the conven- 
tional or convenient-to-himself supplies sent in by 
the chief gardener. 

It is desirable to cultivate variety as well as grace 
in decorating the table. The same pieces of silver 
and gold plate, of Sevres or Dresden china, the same 
pelargonium pies or gardener's bouquets day by day in 
a country house, become as wearisome to the eye as 
boiled chickens and roast saddles of mutton are to 
the palate. 

With what pleased surprise the guests see a great 
mass of colour — daffodils, or tulips, or peonies — rising 
from some brazen vessel of Eastern workmanship, 
instead of the conventional wine-cooler converted 
into a cache-pot, with a prim plant, which might 
almost as well be made of painted muslin. If on 
some days pomp or primness preside over the de- 
corations, let fancy step in now and then with some 
hitherto despised groups or contrast of flowers. 

A few illustrations of the arrangements of the 
table, and a few descriptions of some arrangements 
remarkable for taste, are here given. 



EXAMPLES OE TABLE DECORATIONS. 39 

Afi oval table for ten guests. — The dessert was 
placed in dishes taken from an old-fashioned supper 
tray service of Worcester china forming segments of 
a circle. The central bowl was heaped with fruit ; 
four silver sugar basins of oval form were placed at 
the corners at each end of the table. The whole 
space of the table left free was filled by roses, the stems 
cut quite short, so that the dishes appeared to stand 
on roses. The margin of this bed of roses was a layer 
of rose petals. The table was lighted from above. 

A round table for fourteen guests. — A group of 
foliage plants in the centre, surrounded by lycopo- 
dium and a wreath of panicles of white flowers. A 
large piece of very fine table-cloth was allowed to 
appear ; then came a circle of scarlet geranium and 
yellow calceolaria in shallow troughs, bounded by 
tiles or fenders of old \\2X\d^\ faience, and divided into 
sections by dwarf china figures — the wreath con- 
tinuing to the eye all round the table, and, as it were, 
held in place by the china figures. The scarlet 
geranium was the inner circle, and on the table-cloth 
a line of green leaves was just apparent. No dessert 
on the table. 

A long table, twenty guests. — The centre-pieces, 
candlesticks, and flower-pots were of Indian wrought 
silver. In these, foliage plants, with broad leaves 
and slender stems, were surrounded . by lycopodium, 
whilst innumerable small glasses with a nearly 
full-blown rose in each formed groups or rows 
linked together by trails of foliage placed on the 
table-cloth. . 



40 EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATIOXS. 

A small round table. — The centre occupied by a 
very large plateau, which may be of china, or metal, 
or even of wood ; a group of fruit arranged on it, as 
seen in pictures — pine, melon, grapes, figs, resting on 
vine leaves and tendrils. A margin of troughs with 
cut flowers, and some old china interspersed. 

An oval table for eight guests. — The supply of 
flowers had failed, but a large quantity of the leaves 
and tendrils of a Virginia creeper were at hand; straw- 
berries and cherries in profusion gave colour ; and the 
table-cloth was crossed and diapered with these leaves 
and tendrils. The effect was charming from its 
simplicity. 

In Germany decorations for name days are made 
by arranging the cipher in white flowers on a ground 
of blue corn-flowers {Cyamis inhior^, on the principle 
of carpet bedding, with corners of rosebuds or pan- 
sies embedded in moss. A tray, with shallow sides 
and many troughs fitting in, would be required for 
this, and there should be china tiles, an inch and a 
half to two inches high, as the frame : these can be 
moveable. 

An oval table for ten guests. — In the centre a 
large low bouquet of Cape jessamine, spiraea and 
maidenhair fern ; four or eight white china tubs, 
four inches square, with miniature ferns in them ; four 
low white china figures holding bonbons and dried 
fruit. The dinner and dessert service and the orna- 
ments were all of pure white Limoges china. 

A broad table for twelve guests. — The central 
object a well-grown indigenous fern ; on the table- 
cloth wreaths of stag's-head moss, and at intervals 



EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATIONS. 41 

bunches of heather. The wreaths were so arranged 
as to frame in the candlesticks and two large dishes, 
containing grapes and greengages. The same table 
with wreaths of club moss and bunches of mountain- 
ash berries. These decorations are hardly to be had 
out of the Highlands or the North of England. 

A long table for a large party. — A variety of silver 
ornaments interspersed with china flower pots, in 
which branches of mahonia were so arranged as to 
look like miniature trees sprinkled with snow.' 

Long table for fourteen. — Lighted from above. 
Dresden china dessert dishes of different heights, and 
gold ornaments. In the centre, and occupying the 
greater part of the table, a silver gilt basket filled 
with a mass of camellias on moss, and dressed with 
sprays or single flowers of the long-stemmed winter 
violet {Czar). Bouquets of camellias beside the 
* couverts ' for all the ladies. 

Table for eight to ten. — Lighted from above. 
Centre, Dresden figure supporting a basket heaped 
with fruit and standing in a ring of violets, three inches 
wide. Two flat trays, sixteen inches by ten, filled 
completely with violets, except in their centres, where 
round low dessert dishes with fruit were sunk. At the 
four corners of the table flat circular bouquets of 
violets about two inches wide. 

Varieties of this fiat decoration. — Violets with 
inner rings of yellow primroses or of scarlet geranium ; 

^ To do this, when the foliage is arranged take a fine-rosed watering 
can, and dew the whole with ver}' weak gum water. Allow the water 
to drain off a little, then apply the finest white flour, and afterwards 
the finest sparkling salt, which must be dried before using. 



42 EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATLONS. 

also grey blue plumbago with inner rings of pink 
geranium ; or primroses with inner lines of blue 
hepaticas. The flowers should be without leaves, 
and kept as flat and smooth as moss. 

Table for ten to twelve. — Flowers in narrow cr}'s- 
tal trays arranged in the form of a St. Andrew's cross, 
which stood out from a circle round the foot of a 
gold cup. Branch lights and dessert dishes. The 
flowers used were the large non-scented syringa (mock 
orange) fringed with every shade of leaves, that at 
the points of the cross being dark copper-coloured. 
Down through the mass of the syringa was drawn a 
sharp line of scarlet geranium. At the four corners 
of the table semicircular trays filled with the same 
flowers. 

Round table for eight. — Centre branch candlestick. 
Small rainbow-like circle round the candlestick, and 
second larger ditto just inside of the ' couverts.' These 
circles were composed of, first row, purple viola ; 
second row, orange scarlet nasturtium ; third and 
fourth, yellow nasturtium and yellow and lemon 
viola carefully shaded outward to the lightest. 

Table for sixteen. — Silver epergne with glass 
baskets ; branch candlesticks. The glass baskets of 
the silver epergne and about ten or twelve small low 
glass baskets on the table were filled with the common 
field poppies, with ferns and with a few ears of corn. 

Table for twelve. — Gold ornaments and gold 
candlesticks. A dozen or more glasses of different 
heights dressed with bright bunches of the mountain- 
ash berries. 

Table for tzvelve. — Hunting season. Gold centre- 



EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATIONS. 43 

piece. Long branches of brambles drawn from the 
centre out to all the corners and the sides of the 
table. These branches were carefully selected, as not 
being too strong nor too withered, though they still 
had some red and yellow leaves. They had had a 
flat iron passed over some of the stems and leaves to 
make them manageable. 

Table for foiu'teen. — China ornaments and candle- 
sticks. Strip of crimson satin down the middle of 
the table bordered by feathered moss, into which at 
intervals of two inches single blooms of the white 
pheasant-eyed narcissus were laid. 

Table for ten or twelve. — Centre gold piece ; gold 
candlesticks. A dozen small old blue china flower 
pots, in rows down both sides of the table, with single 
(cut) tritomas, with their leaves in each looking like 
small pines. 

Table for tzventy-fotir.— A pyramid of ice sur- 
rounded by wreaths of water-lilies lying flat on the 
cloth. 

To some eyes the flowers on a table should be all 
of one kind and colour ; to others a mixture of flowers 
is agreeable. No absolute rule can be laid down ; at 
present, taste inclines to there being one or two kinds 
of flowers. Strongly scented flowers are objected to 
by many people. 

A fashion has sprung up of late years of placing a 
strip of satin down the centre of the linen cloth, so as 
to give more colour and variety to the table. The 
edge of the satin is concealed by a wreath of leaves ; 
the colour must therefore be chosen not only to con- 
trast with the white cloth, but with the green or 



44 EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATION. 

brown leaves which make its fringe. Instead of 
satin, Greek lace lined in colour, or linen embroidered 
in colours, is also seen as an embellishment to the 
plain table-cloth. 

Let it always be remembered that cloths which 
will not bear zvashing must not on that account be 
used when soiled ; they must be replaced by new 
ones, or this mode of decorating a table must not be 
attempted. 



HOUSE EXPENSES. 45 



CHAPTER IX. 

EXPENDITURE. 

It must be borne in mind by the housewife that 
modern luxury exacts a greater number of meals, 
a larger number of hot dishes at each meal, the 
accompaniment of fruit, flowers, and highly-polished 
silver, to an extent unknown in the simple days of 
our forefathers. Five meals a day at four or five 
tables — schoolroom, dining-room, hall, steward's room 
— implies an amount of bringing up trays and oi 
clearing away by the men or women servants of 
the pantry department, of cooking the food, and of 
washing up dishes by the servants of the kitchen and 
scullery departments, which must tax their time and 
strength severely ; and if the hours kept are late 
and irregular, must try their temper also. Breakfast 
and luncheon are 'hot meals,' but they are rarely 
punctual meals. In many country houses breakfast 
is so late that preliminary breakfasts are asked for 
in every bedroom ; and five o'clock tea is on so 
tempting a scale that ladies have no appetite at the 
dinner table and have a very troublesome appetite 
at midnight. Those who can afford to devote the 
necessary money to establishments in which this 



46 WAGES AXD PERQUISITES. 

amount of luxury prevails, without trenching on 
other claims, have only to ascertain that there are 
servants enough for the work to be done ; that neither 
their health suffers by over-work nor their morals by 
over-leisure during the intervals when absence from 
home of the masters or other cause prevents 'company.' 



Wages and Perquisites. 

A cook's earnings are made up of w^ages and per- 
quisites. A good cook, or even a plain cook if good 
of her kind, is entitled to wages much larger than those 
given to other female servants, and it is for the interest 
of the employer to give ample wages. The question 
of perquisites is a different one : perquisites may be 
divided into two categories — a percentage on trades- 
men's bills, and the sale of broken meats. 

From a consideration of the first of these, it will be 
seen that it becomes the interest of the cook as well 
as of the tradesman to make those bills as high as 
possible. It would be an advantage to the employer 
and quite fair on the cook to arrange to pay her a 
sum calculated on the average outlay, in lieu of the 
percentage, and to give notice of this arrangement to 
the tradesman, who then can afford to charge ' stores ' 
prices for his goods. 

The second perquisite is the sale of broken meatS; 
dripping, &c. 

By this arrangement it is the cook's interest to 
treat as broken meat, and to convert into dripping, 
much sound and available provision. In the matter 
of selling, the real profit is obtained by the dripping 



COST OF FOOD. 47 

dealer, the real loss is sustained by the cook's em- 
ployer : the cook gets a sum small indeed in com- 
parison with the first cost and with the final sale of 
the article ; the purchasers of broken meats are not 
scrupulous, the cook's conscience becomes less delicate, 
and half a leg of mutton is treated as ' broken meat' 

Those who can afford to give as wages to a cook 
40/. and upwards per annum would do well to com- 
mute such perquisites into a money payment, and to 
give to the poor, through the various charitable 
agencies (whose collector would alwa}'s call), the broken 
meats. 

Where the system of board wages prevails, the 
same objection as regards broken meats does not 
exist, for all that is eatable is utilised to reduce the 
cost of living to the servants and to enable them to 
save out of their board wages — an unobjectionable, 
even praiseworthy habit. 



The Cost of Eating. 

No rule as to the cost of food per head can be laid 
down. Households differ in numbers, ages, and 
habits. In a grown-up household the average per 
head is higher than when there are many children and 
some infants. Fifteen shillings a week per head all 
round, servants and infants included, is considered in 
a cathedral town what the housekeeping weekly ex- 
penses should come to. This includes servants' beer 
and the washing of the whole family. 

The following are examples of households where 
the 15?. a week scale holds good. 



48 COST OF A HOUSEHOLD. 

No. I.- Husband, wife, two children under four 
years of age. Four maid-servants. A late dinner. 

No. 2. — Husband, wife, five children under four- 
teen. Three maid-servants. Early dinner. 

No. 3. — Husband, wife, three or four young chil- 
dren. Three or four maid-servants. Early dinner. 

No. 4. — Husband, wife, eight or nine children under 
seventeen. Three maid-servants. Early dinner. 

These are all very modest households, where 
children are numerous and means small. Visitors 
and dinner parties are of course not included in these 
averages. An Englishwoman living at Paris, with 
several children, several servants, male and female, 
calculates sixteen shillings per head per week as the 
average expenditure. Two meals a day, preceded by 
a cup of tea or coffee and a roll or a bit of bread as 
early breakfast, are, however, the rule of masters and 
servants in France. 

For a household where a handsome table is kept, 
and there is neither stint nor excess, one pound per 
head per week may be accepted as the fair expendi- 
ture. 

The mistress of the household should know what 
she means to spend, and should let the cook or house- 
keeper know that she has to deal with an intelligent 
and fair-judging mistress. 

The ' consumption books,' with columns for enter- 
ing daily items and the additional meals for guests, 
are a help to the mistress, but are not very ac- 
ceptable to a cook. The larger the establishment 



EXPEXSES OF A HOUSEHOLD. 49 

the greater is the necessity for some such means of 
control. 

In the calculation of how the sum spent per week 
is to be apportioned, a minute examination must be 
made of the requirements at each meal. The practice 
of having mutton chops and cutlets at breakfast and 
luncheon, as well as at dinner, will add largely to the 
butcher's book ; yet no blame is due to the house- 
keeper for such increase. The ordering or accepting 
a menu in which all the dishes contain cream, will 
make the demands on the dairy exorbitant (to say 
nothing of the demands on the digestive system of 
the guests). The profuse use of eggs, and dishes 
composed of eggs, at breakfast, lunch, 5 o'clock 
tea, and dinner, will explain the many dozens of eggs 
per week in the henwife's book. 

Let there be a fair computation in each case — 
butter and milk and groceries, as well as the articles 
just noticed — and then, either as dictator or director, 
see that the computation is not exceeded. The sub- 
stitution of a simple inexpensive dish for a complex 
and costly one is an advantage both for the purse and 
the digestion on many occasions. 

Whilst the weekly expenditure is kept within 
fixed limits, the occasion of a ' feast ' may call for 
and justify an expenditure as legitimate in its excess 
as the frugality of every day. 

The information as to the cost of living at colleges 
and clubs, with estimates varying from 145-. to I/, 
per week, does not throw the required light on the 
cost of eating in a household, because in the calcula- 
tions of such establishments the wages of the cook 



50 EXAMPLES OF EXPENDITURE. 

and of the other servants, the cost of coal and gas, 
and other items, are considered. 

The following estimates and comments are the 
result of enquiries made with a view of obtaining the 
result of individual experience in households where 
some attention is paid to the subject. 

The allowance for servants per head per week is 
as follows : — 

Tea . . . . i of a lb. 

Sugar . . . . I „ 
Butter . . . . f „ 



The allowance of meat in a large household, in- 
cluding poultry, game, and bacon, is from i^ lbs. to 
2 lbs. per head per day. 

One correspondent says ' the amount of meat used 
depends on the cook ; ' another says ' there is no limit 
placed on the consumption of meat, but the rule of 
the house (a great house) is plain dishes.' 

The restriction in the last instance is therefore in 
the use of eggs, cream, sauces, truffles, and the ac- 
companiments of entrees. 

Another correspondent gives her experience as 
follows : — 

In a small household in the country — family and 
guests, six persons ; servants' hall and guests there, 
six to eight ; a month's consumption was 

Eggs . . . .42 dozens. 
Butter . . . .56 lbs. 
Milk per day ... 6 quarts. 
Cream for the month . lO pints. 



HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES. 51 

The responsibility must rest, not on the cook or 
housekeeper, however, but on the employer — that is, 
the lady at the head of the house ; and either by a 
knowledge of details she may guide the extravagant 
cook, or by stern refusal to pay unreasonably high bills 
she may compel the cook to look into details and 
reduce expenditure without impoverishing the fare, 
which is the course a cook attempts in order to coerce 
her employer. 



E 2 



52 DEFECTS OF ENGLISH COOKERY. 



CHAPTER X. 

SOME DEFECTS IN ENGLISH COOKERY. 

Wateriness. 

One of the most conspicuous faults in English cookery 
is the presence of water. Sometimes the soup is 
little more than hot water. The boiled fish is sent 
up surrounded by hot water. The Irish stew has lost 
all savour by reason of water added to that which 
the vegetables in it have already yielded ; and in the 
sending up of vegetables it is too apparent that the 
draining and evaporating processes have been omitted. 
Besides the objection that tepid water is not a sauce, 
there is the further objection that the water sent up 
has a disagreeable taste, and is unwholesome from the 
vegetable juices contained in it. A careful cook will 
press, squeeze, strain, drain, dry, or evaporate all 
vegetables that are cooked by boiling, and on the oc- 
casions when water is an ingredient in a dish, she will 
never exceed the quantity indicated. When broth is 
used to dilute a dish whilst it is cooking, only a small 
quantity is to be poured in at a time, and after that has 
been absorbed, in stewing, a second dose may be ad- 
ministered. The practice of adding water to the gravy 
in the dish is severely to be reprehended. The gravy 
ought to be the pure juice from the roasted joints. 



GREASJXESS. 53 

Greasiness. 

This is a fault imputed to German cookery, not 
always without ground, but it is also to be met with in 
other countries. Grease, fat, butter, and cream, are im- 
portant factors in most savoury dishes ; butter and 
cream in sweet dishes also. Where then is the mistake 
when a dish is called greasy ? In the case of soups it 
is that the stock-pot has not been skimmed, and that 
the stock has not been allowed to cool till the fat 
cakes on the top and can be removed. The same rule 
holds good witli gravies and sauces. When butter 
has to be mixed in with vegetables, if the butter 
is allowed to oil, the dish becomes greasy ; the mode 
of obviating this is to work flour in with the butter, 
and to allow the vegetable and butter and flour to be 
on the fire for a short time only, and not at all on a 
fierce fire. The over-heating of fat is sure to result 
in oily, greasy dishes — this the cook can control. 
The soft, bad fat in meat, which is the result of the 
grazier's treatment of the animal, is not her fault. In 
frying, the defect of greasiness is the result either of the 
lard, butter, or oil not being of the right temperature 
when the thing to be fried is put in it, or of the neglect of 
placing each thing after frying on a wire sieve, or on 
a paper on a dish before the fire, so that the fat which 
clings round may drain off on the sieve, or be absorbed 
by the paper placed under. 

Flavouring. 

There exists so great a difference of taste as to fla- 
vouring that it is desirable for the lady of the house 



54 CONDIMENTS AND FLAVOURS. 

to explain to the cook what the standard of taste is to 
be on the following points : — 

Whether viiicJi pepper, curry powder, mulligatawny 
paste are to be used in the dishes of which they are 
ingredients. 

Whether vinegar and lemon juice are to be used 
sparingly or lavishly. 

Whether spices and grocers' sauces are to be used 
at all. 

Whether sugar is to be put into puddings in such 
quantities as to satisfy those who love sweet dishes of 
the sweetest, or in moderate quantities, permitting 
addition to such as wish the dish sweeter. 

If the cook says she knows her business, the answer 
must be : ' You cannot know whether we prefer very 
highly seasoned dishes, or dishes of very delicate 
flavour ; and it is no imputation of want of skill, when 
I explain that we like clear soup without wine, and 
with very little pepper ; that creams are in my view 
best without gelatine ; or that an apple tart in which 
there were cloves would be sent untouched from my 
table.' 

Fine herbs, mint, fennel, sage, sorrel, lemon peel, 
are necessary for certain dishes ; mushrooms, truffles, 
onions to others. The proper blending and harmo- 
nising of flavours show the skill of the cook, but it is 
also necessary that her palate should be in accord 
with that of the guests. 

In France the standard of taste is uniform, or 
nearly so, and the tradition of the kitchen may be 
trusted even where there is no c/icf to direct. 

In England tastes differ; the tradition prefers 



FLAVOURS. 55 

flavours from the grocer to flavours from the garden, 
and the cook's palate can rarely be trusted. 

Whilst nothing- can be truer than the remark that 
sound healthy life, whether in the animal or vegetable 
kingdom, is quite inconsistent with the habitual use 
of a highly stimulating diet, it is at the same time 
necessary to study the peculiarities of those palates 
and digestions which have to be kept in healthy order, 
to consult idiosyncrasies and to humour whims as far 
as is possible. There is neither sense nor saving in 
using that against which the stomach is set. 

A remark of Dr. Brunton deserves to be quoted 
on this point : — 

' Savoury food causes the digestive juices to be 
freely secreted ; well-cooked and palatable food is 
therefore more digestible than unpalatable ; and if the 
food lack savour, a desire naturally arises to supply it 
by condiments, not always well selected or whole- 
some. 

' After a meal containing sufficient nutriment for 
the wants of the s}'stem, but very plain and simple in 
character, a craving is often felt for something more, 
although the person cannot say for what he craves. 
This may be satisfied by a little salt (on a crust of 
bread) on the tongue, though a more agreeable mode 
is to eat some dried, or ripe fresh fruit.' 



56 DRESS OF THE COOK. 



CHAPTER XL 

DRESS OF THE COOK. 

The necessity for the utmost care and accuracy 
in cleaning the kitchen, the larder, and all cooking 
utensils has been dwelt upon ; but, from the same 
point of view, there remains something to be said 
about the dress of the cook herself when actually at 
work in her kitchen. 

Her dress certainly ought to be made of some 
material which admits of being washed. Flounces or 
folds that act as pockets to catch falling particles are 
to be avoided, but still more a skirt so long as to 
sweep or even to touch the floor. Why should she run 
the risk of picking up and carrying about in her train 
the first dropped cabbage leaf or chicken-claw, or of 
staining this misplaced appendage in some spilt sauce 
or oil, and of sweeping in consequence this sauce or 
oil over the rest of her kitchen floor ? 

No cook works without an apron of some sort, but 
how seldom is her apron really large enough — large 
enough to secure her dress against a stain were she 
suddenly to drop her hands by her side. Or perhaps, 
though of a good size, it is not sufficiently fastened 
back, and being loose she is tempted at some emer- 
gency to wipe her hands in it. If she does so, the 



DRESS OF THE COOK. S7 

chances are she pulls it out of its place and leaves 
her dress unprotected. A better plan is to wear, 
under a small apron, a really large one which is tied 
well back over the sides. The small one is the one 
that habitually gets dirty, and which is thrown aside 
at the end of the day, whereas the larger one will 
probably keep clean for several days ; and under all 
these conditions the cotton dress of the cook ought 
not to require such constant washing as it would 
otherwise do. 

Then as to her hair. The hair of a man cook is 
shorter and more easily kept, yet he always wears a 
cap — is it not then absurd that a woman cook should 
allow her unprotected hair to be steamed by all her 
savoury pots or to be filled with flour by all her 
dredgers ? She ought to wear a good-sized white 
cap, and for the sake of those for whom she cooks, let 
her dress her hair in some neat close way, so as to 
have no loose hairs or hairpins which might fall into 
the food. 



58 CHIEF OPERATIONS OF COOKERY. 



CHAPTER XII. 

THE CHIEF OPERATIONS OF COOKERY. 

Roasting. 

This operation can only take place before a good 
open fire ; the meat must be placed close to the fire 
for a few minutes, and when the outside is just ' set ' 
then it must be withdrawn and allowed to roast 
slowly, care being taken to baste frequently. 

The surface of the joint being allowed to ' set ' 
causes the gravy inside to retain all its qualities, and 
a free current of external air during the roasting 
renders the taste of the meat, both the fat and lean, 
sweet and wholesome. 

The received time for roasting is at the rate of 
fifteen minutes to the pound for beef and mutton, and 
seventeen to twenty minutes to the pound for pork 
and veal. 

As a well-cooked joint of meat should be full of 
its own gravy, in roasting it must at first be exposed 
to a quick fire, and in boiling it must be plunged 
into boiling water. 



BRAISING. 



59 



Time Table for Roasting at an Open Fire. 



10 lbs. of beef 


requires . 


2^ hours 


5 M 


5> 


li 


JJ 


6-lb. leg of mutton 


>J 


li 


J) 


Quarter of lamb 


J) 


I 


JJ 


Leg of lamb 


)) 


3 

4 


JJ 


4 lbs. of veal 


5) 


2 


,, 


4 lbs. of pork 


)J 


2 


JJ 


Hare, if large 


J» 


u 


JJ 


Leveret 


>) 


J 


JJ 


Turkey 


JJ 


. li 


JJ 


Fowl, 


>5 


J 


„ 


Goose, „ 


» 


. li 


JJ 


Duck 


JJ 


3 
4 


JJ 


Pheasant 


JJ 


3 

4 


JJ 


Partridge 


5J 


4 


JJ 


Smaller birds 


i 


hour to 20 mil 



Braising. 

This operation requires a braising-pan, with its 
hollow lid to contain hot coals or hot water, and, as 
the braising-pan must not be too 
large for the piece of meat to be 
braised, it is desirable to have hollow 
lids to more than one size of stew- 
pan. 

An earthenware pot in a bai7t- 
niarie may be used, and the oven Nottingham jar. 
instead of the hot-plate is sometimes 
utilised. Pieces of meat which contain gristle can be 




6o BAKING AND SAUTE-ING. 

made digestible by braising or stewing, if the pro- 
cess is carried out over a slow fire and for the proper 
length of time — that is, upwards of four hours — and if 
it is basted about every twenty minutes with the gravy 
which surrounds but does not cover the meat. 

To prevent the meat from burning, a round of 
buttered paper cut to the size of the stewpan may be 
placed on the top of the meat, care being taken that 
it should not drop into the gravy. Of course it must 
he lifted each time the meat is basted. 



Baking. 

The universal use of closed ranges and ovens has 
caused baked meat to supersede roast meat. No care 
or contrivance will enable the process to be satis- 
factory, but it is cheap and convenient. 

A brick oven would improve the taste of baked 
meat, but then again iron ovens are cheap and conve- 
nient. The expedient of the double oven pan, that is, 
of placing the pan which holds the meat on another 
pan which contains some hot water, lessens the taste of 
burnt fat, and frequent basting prevents extreme dry- 
ness. The roasting oven, the movable shelf, and the 
baking pans require great care in cleaning and keep- 
ing sweet There must be a rack, on which the joint 
is placed, standing in the oven-pan. 



Saute-ing". 

This is a modification of frying : the same pan can 
be used, but in general there is a jrt:?///-pan kept for 



FRYING. 6i 

this purpose. The quantity of fat used is much less 
than for frying, and the object to be cooked is not 
surrounded with bread-crumbs and egg or paste. 
Mutton chops and cutlets, pork chops and cutlets, 
slices of fillet of beef, chickens cut into neat joints, 
are saute. A good sauce can be served in a sauce- 





saut£-pan. modern saut£-pan. 

boat, or placed round them, or viaitre d'hotel butter 
can be put on each cutlet. SaiUe-\\\^ is a very palat- 
able and wholesome mode of cooking. 

The saitte-^dJVi should be kept in constant motion 
to prevent the cutlets, etc., from burnitig, a peculiar 
jerk of the hand causing the articles in the pan to 
jump, ' santer,' so that they may be equally cooked on 
all sides. 

Frying. 

The substances used for frying are butter, oil, 
lard, dripping, the fat which is skimmed off, or taken 
cold off, the stock pot. Marrow, and the fat near the 
kidneys, are also excellent ingredients of the ' drip- 
ping pot,' which should be of earthenware. 

It is proper to have two or three earthenware 
pots, so as to keep separate the fats employed for 
frying fish from those used for meat and for sweet 
dishes. 

- Good frying fat can be kept a year without get- 
ting bad, if care is taken to clarify from time to time 




62 " FRYING. 

and to remove dregs or scum. The frying-pan must 
be clean and the surface smooth, that is, the tinned 
surface if burnt or blistered must be renewed, else the 
tendency to burn is increased. A frying-pan must 
be six inches deep at least. 

A copper frying-pan is used for many dishes — that 
is, copper-tinned. An iron frying-pan can be either 
tinned or enamelled, but the transmission of heat is 
not as good as in the copper vessel. A wire lining fits 
into the frying-pan ; in this 
the objects are placed, and 
when fried they are removed 
and drained in it. A light 

WIRE LINING OF FRYING- i j i_ • r 

p^^^ golden brown, a crisp surface, 

are the characteristics of good 
frying — a burnt or sodden look shows carelessness or 
ignorance on the part of the cook. The fire must 
be clear and brisk, and it must be maintained at the 
same heat all the time. 

The moment the object fried is removed from the 
frying-pan, the pan must be removed from the fire, or 
the fat will burn. 

Fish, cutlets, croquettes, rissoles, and fritters 
require a temperature of 380° Fahn ; chops, potatoes, 
and whitebait, 400° Fahr. 

As the cook does not test the heat by a ther- 
mometer, but by a specimen bit of bread or parsley, 
the above figures will only so far help her as to show 
that certain things require fiercer heat than others. 
Practice and patience must be the real guides. 

If the frying-pan is six inches deep, the fat must 
be three inches deep. Let it heat slowly, and, when 



FR YING. 



63 



you think It is nearly at that point which fits it for 
frying, test it with a small bit of bread. 

It is often desirable to place the object when fried 
on blotting paper before the fire, so that all trace of 
the fat may disappear from the surface. 

As the point aimed at in frying is to have a crisp 
dry surface, it would be well never to serve sauce in 
the dish, because the under surface must be sodden 
by the sauce : this applies to everything that is egged 
or bread-crumbed ; custom moreover requires sauce 
under cutlets and vegetables in the centre ; it is there- 
fore a better arrangement to ' saiUer ' cutlets if there is 
to be sauce, and to hand round sauce when cutlets 
are egged and bread-crumbed. Croquettes and 
rissoles are always to be served on a napkin, and do 
not require sauce. 

To clarify fat or dripping, place it in a large 
saucepan with a little water, set it on the hot-plate 
till all the fat is melted, strain through a cloth or 
hair sieve into an earthenware jar. 

Fat that has been used for frying should always 
be strained into a basin containing a little water, so 
that the sediment may fall to the bottom. 

The frying basket should never be allowed to 
touch the bottom of the 
saucepan ; and the articles 
to be fried should be ar- 
ranged so as not to touch 
each other ; otherwise where 
they touch they will be 
burnt and the covering of bread-crumbs broken. 

If the articles when fried arc of too dark a colour, 




WIRE BASKET FOR FRYING. 



64 BOILING. 

the heat of the fat has been too great, or they have 
been left in too long. If they appear sodden, the fat 
has not been hot enough. 

It is expensive to fry in oil, but it is vastly supe- 
rior to frying in fat. 

Boiling. 

This is an easy mode of cooking meat and fish 
and a necessary mode of cooking many vegetables : it 
takes away savour, however, and should be restricted 
to a few joints. 

The first point is whether the meat, etc., is to be 
put on in hot or cold water. Salt beef, salt pork, salt 
fish, must be put on in cold water : so must haricots, 
rice, etc. 

Fresh fish must not only be put on in hot water, 
but in hot water with salt in it, because salt water 
boils at a higher temperature than fresh water. 

Fresh meat must be put on in hot water, a little 
salt is to be thrown in, and the saucepan is then to 
be placed in a cool part of the stove and only allowed 
to simmer. There is to be careful skimming in both 
modes of boiling. 

In selecting meat for salting always choose that 
of which the fat is firm, 



Time Table for Boiling. 

Ham . . . \ hour to each lb. 
Salt beef . . 20 minutes to each lb. 
Leg of mutton . 12 „ „ 



BROILING. 

Leg of pork , 12 minutes to each lb. 

Turkey . , 15 „ 

Chicken . . about an hour 

Rump-steak pudding ^\ to 4 hours 



To boil Meat when Broth and Meat are both 
to be served. 

Put the beef or mutton on in cold water and let 
it heat slowly ; a scum will rise when it comes to 
boiling point ; remove this very carefully, then cover 
the pot, keep it at a gentle simmer, from time to time 
lift the cover and skim till no more scum rises. Take 
out the meat when cooked enough, let it dry, and keep 
warm before the fire, slice thin some stale bread, put it 
in a tureen and pour the broth over Vegetables may 
be boiled with the meat. 

Broiling. 

This is a very wholesome mode of cooking food ; it 
can be done over the fire and in front of the fire. 
Nothing is added to or taken away from meat or 
fish in the process, and with the addition of maitre 
dliotel butter a very appetising result is obtained. 
When broiling is done on the fire, a gridiron is used ; it 
must be heated before the chop or steak is put on it, 
and it must be close to the clear bright heat of the 
coals. The piece of meat must be turned with a pair 
of tongs (not a fork), so that no gravy may escape, 
and that neither side shall receive all the gra\;y. 

If the broiling is done in front of the fire, as is 



66 MAKING PASTE AND PASTRY. 

best for fish, it is simply placed on a tin which is 
placed close in front of the fire, and care must be 
taken in both modes of broiling that the meat or fish 
is not too thick for the process, and that the fire is 
not so fierce as to char or burn. 

Fish must always be split open for broiling. 

Gridirons are sometimes made double, the chop 
can be turned on the fire without its being touched, 
and in the fluted gridiron there is a trough which 
preserves the gravy. 

Paste and Pastry. 

To make good pastry, delicacy of touch and mani- 
pulation, a light hand, a cool hand, good materials, a 
good oven, and in summer rough ice are required. 
The slab, the rollers, and all the implements must be 
faultlessly clean. The flour must be w^hat is called 
Hungarian or American flour, the butter must have 
no buttermilk or salt in it. Butter intended for pastry 
should be washed, so as to extract the liquids and 
salt, and then wiped dry. The pastry board must be 
kept sweet and clean, and never be used for anything 
but pastry. For the finer kinds of pastry the flour 
should be dried and sifted. There are several kinds 
of paste, that used for raised pies, that used for lining 
little tin moulds, common meatpie paste, puff paste. 
The two first kinds are not intended to 'rise' or be 
elastic, the two latter are to be elastic ; the paste used 
for raised pies is not eaten ; it is made of flour, butter 
or lard ; \ lb. butter to I lb. of flour ; a little salt and hot 
water, enough to melt the butter and work up the paste. 



MAKING PASTE AXD PASTRY. 67 

To model a raised pie requires the skill and taste 
of a potter, and no printed description will convey 
the necessary instruction ; if it is worth doing, it is 
worth paying for a couple of lessons. 

The paste made for timbales is made with i lb. of 
flour, ^ lb. of butter, a little salt, the yolks of two eggs, 
and half a pint of water. 

The flour is heaped on the slab, and then a hollow 
is made in the centre, into which are stirred the yolks 
of two eggs, a pinch of salt, a glass of water. The 
mixture is stirred and worked with the fingers in the 
first place : it must be firm and smooth, yet soft. 
The butter is to be gradually worked in ; during this 
process the fingers must be frequently dipped in dry 
flour. When the paste has been thoroughly mixed, 
it is made into a ball and wrapped in a cloth till it is 
wanted. It is then rolled out very thin, and the 
moulds are lined with it and filled with flour (to be 
taken out) and baked. The shape of the moulds 
varies with fashion and fancy ; lozenge-shaped moulds 
which form a star when placed together look well, 
and little troughs are also a neat form for filling. 

The next kind of paste is made with | lb. of butter 
to I lb. of flour, and only one Qgg. 

Proceed as in the foregoing recipe with half the 
butter, continue to work the paste and to incorporate 
the rest of the butter. Let it stand a few minutes, 
flour the slab, the rolling pin, and the paste, and 
proceed to roll out the paste till it nearly comes 
a yard by a foot in size, turn it and roll again, fold 
in three, roll out again, let it rest in a cold place 
for fifteen minutes, and repeat the rolling process twice. 



68 PUFF PASTE. 

In cutting paste the knife or cutters should be 
dipped into flour or cold water. 

Puff paste is the most dainty paste made, and it 
alone can be used for vol-au-vents, patties, tartlets, and 
pastry ' fingers.' Puff pastry will rise, w^hen properly 
made and baked, to eight times its size before baking ; 
if you cut out a piece of this paste \ an inch thick, it 
will rise to be four inches thick. The proportion of 
butter in this case will be i lb. to I lb. of flour, but 
only one ^%% is to be used. The butter must be 
washed and pressed so as to get rid of any butter- 
milk in it. The mode of making the puff paste is 
similar to the last recipe, but the rest should be in a 
dish covered by another dish, and some rough ice 
placed tinder and over. When ice cannot be had, 
the paste should be made in a cellar, or whatever may 
be the coolest place in the house. It must be baked 
as soon as it is ready, or failure will ensue. 

All descriptions of making pastry fail to convey 
the exact method of manipulating the paste : it is 
one of the processes in w^hich lessons are of most use. 
In the preceding observations the materials are given, 
and the increase in proportion of butter to flour must 
be carefully noted, according to the kind of paste 
required. 

The way to make puff paste is as follows. Having 
made the flour, o.^^, and water into a ball of paste 
(which should be cool, light, and elastic), roll it out 
lengthways about J of an inch thick. Take the 
butter, previously washed and wrung in a cloth, in a 
firm flat pat, place it on the centre of the strip of 
paste, fold the two ends over it, and press the edges 



PASTRY. 69 

together so that the butter is firmly enclosed. Place 
the paste on your board with the rough edges 
towards you, and begin rolling gently from the centre 
towards the edges, both from and towards you, taking 
care not to roll the butter out. Fold in three and 
roll again, then lay aside for fifteen minutes and 
repeat the folding, and rolling twice as previously 
described. The paste should be rolled altogether 
seven times. If it is properly made and really light, 
large air-bubbles will appear in the course of the 
rolling. 

The oven for all pastry, especially puff pastry, 
requires to be very hot. It is as well to test it by 
putting in a small piece of paste first. If the oven 
is at the right heat, the door should not be opened to 
look at the pastry until it is time to take it out, as 
opening the door lowers the temperature and checks 
the rising of the pastry. It is therefore very con- 
venient to have a piece of glass in the oven door, 
through which to see when the pastry is ready. 

Pastry should not be placed too near the fire side 
of the oven, for in that case it will rise unevenly. 



70 SOUPS. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

■ SOUPS. 

Soup, though not yet considered in England, as it is 
on the Continent, a necessary introduction to dinner, 
is yet gaining popularity. The very rich and the 
very poor are supplied with it. So are the soldier 
and the sailor. A small piece of coarse meat will go 
a long way if made into soup. Or you may place in 
the stock-pot the most dainty parts of the most costly 
meats ; or of poultry or game. 

The chief division of soups is into clear and thick 
soups. The excellence of the first is that the clear- 
ness be obtained without any sacrifice of flavour. If 
stock is cleared by white of ^gg, the flavour is sacri- 
ficed. The proper mode of making clear soup will 
be given in a subsequent recipe. Whether to order 
clear or thick soup is the first point : this must 
depend on the stock at your disposal, and if it appears 
a good clear soup is not obtainable, then order a thick 
soup — that is either a puree of poultry or game, or 
of vegetables, or of barley and rice, &c. ; or a soup 
in which eggs are beaten up, such as ' Bonne Femme ' 
or ' Jenny Lind ' soup. But it is important to bear in 
mind that all soups which have vegetables or cream 
in them will not keep in hot weather. 



BROTH OR STOCK. 71 

Bones contain from 39 to 49 per cent, of gelatine, 
an entirely tasteless substance. The proportion of 
bone to meat should not exceed a sixth part in 
weight. The soup meat and bone must be put on in 
cold water ; the bone must be broken. Perfectly clear 
soup should be made from meat, without any mixture 
of bone. All meat which has been cooked before 
being put into the stock-pot should be carefully wiped 
and dusted with a little flour and salt. All the scraps 
and trimmings of poultry ought to be put into the 
pot. 

Soup must be sent to table very hot ; the tureen 
must be heated by a hot-water bath, and wiped dry 
before the soup is put in ; and there should alwa}'s 
be soup tureens of a size suitable to a small as well 
as to a large number of guests, as, if a small quantity 
of soup is sent up in a huge vessel, it must be chilled 
before it is put into the soup plates. The ration of 
soup is \ pint for each lady, ^ pint for each gentle- 
man. 

Broth or Stock. 

The first step in making soups is to prepare a good 
clear broth, or stock, as it is technically called. This 
can be made from beef, or mutton, or veal ; but it is 
desirable, if possible, to use two kinds of meat, and 
to add trimmings of chicken. 

The meat must be newly killed, not merely fresh,, 
or clear broth is not attained. 

The proportion of meat to water is about one 
pound to one quart. Bones make stiff stock, as 
they are nearly half gelatine ; but they do not give 



72 BROTH OR STOCK. 

flavour. This is the case with the large bones of 
the ox ; knuckle of veal and scrag of mutton bones 
do not give the same coarse taste ; but the bone 
should never exceed a sixth part of the weight of the 
meat. 

It will be observed that the broth now described 
is made from undressed meat — a practice sometimes 
called extravagant. It is, however, the only way to 
make clear, bright soup ; and if the trimmings from 
cutlets, fillets, and steaks, and the scrag end of necks 
of mutton are used, and a small quantity of gravy 
meat only is used, the cost is not large and the 
quality is high. 

Besides the stock-pot in which fresh meat is used, 
there should be one in which the carcasses of roast 
chickens, or game, some bones to which meat adheres, 
the rind of bacon and any trimmings, are simmered in 
water, and an inferior kind of broth is made, which 
is quite good enough for puree soups. 

The meat in the first stock-pot is also allowed to 
produce a second yield of broth, after the first has been 
strained off, by more water and simmering. Stock or 
soup must never be allowed to remain in any metal 
vessel : it must be transferred to an earthenware pan, 
and kept in that. 

The stock-pot must be of copper, well tinned inside, 
and re-tinned about once a year. Large stock-pots 
have a tap, so that the broth can be drawn off. 

If a copper stock-pot is not used, an earthenware 
jar in an iron saucepan is the substitute. Iron is a 
bad conductor of cooking heat for making broth ; and 
if soup is even warmed in an iron saucepan, it acquires 



GARXISHING SOUP. 73 

a disagreeable flavour. The time for simmering the 
stock-pot is about 4-| to 5 hours. 

The surface of the broth must be cleared from 
scum as it rises up, and the vegetables must not be 
put in till the skimming is over. 

These vegetables must include carrots, turnips (or 
kohl rabi), celery, onions, leeks, and fine herbs, tied in 
a little bundle. No vegetable must be allowed to 
give a dominant flavour. Salt and a pinch of sugar 
must be put in almost the last thing. 

The stock-pot must always remain uncovered. 
This is a rule which should be impressed on the mind 
of the kitchen-maid. The cook knows too well how 
much trouble is caused her by such a rule not being 
observed, and that, take as much trouble as she may, 
the soup cannot be properly cleared after it has been 
made turbid by putting the cover on the stock-pot. 

Quenelles for Garnishing Soup. 

The quenelles used for the floating garnish of 
soups may be made from game, poultry, or meat. 
They must be rather firmer and harder than those 
used as entrees, or they will fall to pieces in the soup. 
The shape of an almond or olive is that most suitable. 
About two or three quenelles should be allowed for 
each guest. 

Another mode of making quenelles is to set a 
small lump of macedoine of vegetables in quenelle 
meat, and then to give this a coating of the quenelle 
meat so that the whole is about the size of a 
poached Qgg, the vegetables taking the place of the 



74 



CONSOMME. 



yolk, and the quenelle meat of the white. A quenelle 
is placed in each soup plate, in the same way as a 
poached ^g% when that is the garnish of the soup. 




QUENELLES FOR GARNISHING SOUP. 

These quenelles are called en stcrprise, and may 
be used as an entree. 



Consomme or Clear Soup. 

The term ' consomme ' implies a soup very highly 
flavoured with the juices of meat and poultry ; not 
highly coloured or glutinous, but clear, bright, trans- 
parent. The broth has been strained through a tamis ; 
has been allowed to cool ; the fat has been carefully 
removed, and it then can, if thought proper, receive a 
further dose of fresh meat, and go through the 
simmering process, straining, cooling, &c. ; or, if a 
delicate clear soup is desired, the only further point 



CLEARING SOUP. 75 

is to consider what the ' floating ' addition is to be — 
small quenelles, dice made of custard of two or three 
colours, nudeln or profiteroUes ; these will be found 
in the subsequent recipes. 

To clear Soup. 

Soup should not be cleared with white of egg, as 
it destroys the flavour, but with fresh meat, which 
improves it. Allow J lb. of fresh lean beef to two 
quarts of stock, and chop it up very fine, removing all 
skin and fat. Put it in a stewpan with the stock 
and some of the same kinds of vegetables which have 
been used to flavour the stock. Stir with a wooden 
spoon or whisk till the stock comes to the boil. Draw 
the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer — 
not boil — for about half an hour, and then strain twice 
through a fine cloth. 

Ordinary Soup. 

The proportions are as follows : — 

3 lbs. beef (of which \ lb. may be bone) ; 

I lb. veal and bone (as in knuckle or neck) ; 

4 quarts cold water. 

Let it come slowly to the heat at which scum and 
bubbles form ; skim repeatedly, then add vegetables 
as follows : 

Carrots ; Celery ; 

Turnips; Onions and leeks. 

Do not cover the stock-pot. 

Simmer for 5 hours ; strain through a hair-sieve. 



76 JULIENNE SOUP. 

Consomm^, or Extra-ordinary Soup. 

6 quarts water ; 2 turnips ; 

4 lbs. lean beef (gravy beef) ; 2 onions ; 

2 old hens ; 2 leeks ; 

2 carrots ; i bunch fine herbs. 

Let it simmer slowly for 8 hours, or till it is re- 
duced to two quarts, observing the same rule as to 
skimming and straining ; and use for dainty appetites, 
with any of the garnishes for soups, such as quenelles, 
profiterolles, &c. 

Soup with Bread, or ' Potage croutes au pot' 

Cut slices of roll about the size of a crown piece ; 
fry in butter, a golden colour, drain, then moisten 
them with a little stock which has been boiled nearly 
to glaze. Let the crusts absorb this, and then begin 
to dry. Place them in the soup tureen, and pour 
over a good clear soup. It must be sent to table 
without delay, or the crusts would dissolve and break 
into bits when taken out. 

Julienne Soup. 

It is important to observe the relative proportion 
of vegetables for this soup : 
\ lb. carrots \ 

\ lb. turnips cut in thin long slices, and throw 
2 ozs. leeks ^- in a basin of clear water as you 
2 ozs. onions j cut them up ; then drain. 
\ oz. celery 



POT AGE BRUNO I SE. 77 

Fry in butter till a light brown ; drain from the 
butter and put in the stock ; let it nearly boil ; then 
simmer slowly for 2 hours in the requisite quantity 
of broth. 

If in spring add asparagus tips ; 

In summer, young peas ; 

In autumn, French beans. 
These to be cooked separately in weak stock or plain 
water, so as to retain their colour. 

If no other green vegetable is at hand, cut lettuce 
leaves in strips ; these require only a few minutes 
cooking. 

Potage Brunoise. 

Cut into little squares, of less than a quarter of 
an inch in size, the following vegetables : — 
4 ozs. of the red part of carrots ; 
4 „ turnips ; 
4 ,, leeks ; 

4 „ the white part of celery ; 
4 „ onions. 

Blanch separately, drain, then put in a stewpan 
with 12 ounces of butter and let them fry till they 
assume a red hue, add then a pinch of powdered 
white sugar and i pint of broth ; let it simmer for 
half an hour, then pour in 5^ pints of broth ; let the 
whole simmer on the hot-plate for two hours ; skim 
and remove the grease. Have ready blanched 8 
ounces of Italian paste, which must also be simmered 
till quite tender, and then drained dry. Put this in 
the soup tureen, and pour the brunoise over it. 



78 LETTUCE SOUP. 

Lettuce Soup. 

Chop up a soft green lettuce, and stew it with 
some butter, sugar, and a few drops of Tarragon 
vinegar {really a few drops ; not more than thirty). 
Keep stirring, and do not let it burn ; but do not 
mind that the lettuces lose their green colour. Add 
a teaspoonful of flour, with pepper and salt. Break 
an Qgg over it all, and pour on some weak broth. 
Serve with some dice of bread fresh cut into the 
tureen, and add a wine-glass of cream just before 
serving. 

Brunoise Soup, No. 2. 

Lettuces cut into tiny ribbon-like pieces and 
stewed as above, form the principal charm of a soup 
that would otherwise only be distinguished from a 
Julienne by the fact that the vegetables are cut into 
small dice. 

Clear Lettuce Soup. 

Clean and strain and trim the lettuce, which 
should be of the long narrow-leaved sort. Fold 
neatly in three, and tie ; stew with butter and sugar 
and meat broth in a wide shallow pan so that the 
little parcels, like folded gloves, do not touch each 
other. Untie and serve in the tureen, pouring over 
them a bright clear consomme. The French often 
.serve these lettuces (as they do the poached eggs for 
a consomme) in a dish, and placing one in each soup 
plate, then add the ladleful of soup for each person. 
This prevents them from untwisting and becoming 
untidy. 



RUSSIAN SOUP. 79 

Russian Soup. 

The common white cabbage is to be cut in shreds 
J of an inch long. 

One onion (if possible, a Spanish onion), to be cut 
in shreds, and a few fine herbs. 

Fry in butter, but do not brown ; drain, and add 
to the soup, with one tablespoonful of flour. 

Have ready small balls of beef sausage, made thus : 
2 ozs. beef chopped very small ; 
2 ozs. suet „ „ 

Pepper and salt. 

Fry ; and place in the soup with a squeeze of 
lemon, just before serving up. 

Mulligatawny Soup. 

Have some good chicken and veal broth mad-e ; 
boil two nice chickens therein ; when done take them 
out. Cut them up into neat pieces, take off the skin, 
and put the pieces between tw^o plates covered over 
with a wet cloth ; then slice one large onion, fry it in 
some fresh butter until it attains the colour of gold, 
then mix in two small tablespoonsful of flour ; stir 
this for a few minutes on a slow fire, then add one 
tablespoonful of curry powder, and half a teaspoonful 
of curry paste ; stir all this together for one minute 
longer, then add about two quarts of the chicken and 
veal broth. Make it very smooth by stirring it over 
the fire until it boils, then let it boil gently on one 



8o MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 

side for about half an hour, and skim all the butter 
off as it rises ; then rub it through a tamis cloth, 
put it in the soup pot, stir it over the fire until it boils, 
taste it, add salt if necessary, then add all the pieces 
of chicken and let it simmer gently for lo minutes. 
Serve with a plate of rice. The rice should be well 
washed, then boiled quickly for 20 minutes in plenty 
of water, then thrown on to a sieve and put in front 
of the fire for two minutes, stirred up with a fork, and 
served very hot. Do not forget to put a pinch of 
salt to the rice while boiling. Rice should be washed 
in four separate waters. It must be put into boiling 
water. Some rice does not require as much as 20 
minutes, and if boiled too long becomes pulpy and 
the grains stick together. When, by pressing a grain 
between your fingers, you can feel the heart, it is 
sufihciently boiled. 

Mulligatawny Soup, No. 2. 

4 onions ; \ pound ham ; 

4 apples ; 4 cloves ; 

1 carrot ; I blade of mace ; 

2 turnips ; A bunch of parsley ; 
I head of celery ; Thyme. 
Bay-leaves ; 

Cut all into slices, put them into a stewpan with 
\ lb. butter, pass it 20 minutes over a fire ; then add 
a pint of broth, let it simmer about 20 minutes, 
then add 3 tablespoonsful of curry powder, i table- 
spoonful of curry paste, and 4 tablespoonsful of flour. 
Mix the whole well together with 6 quarts of broth ; 



FISH CURRY SOUP. 8i 

when boiling, skim it. Season with a teaspoonfui of 
sugar and salt if required, pass it through a tamis, 
warm and serve with quenelles (small in the soup) ; 
serve with rice in a separate dish. 

A Fish Curry Soup for Six Persons. 

Put the following ingredients into a saucepan : — 

4 onions fried in salad oil a light brown, add six 
tomatoes cut into slices, a bunch of parsley, thyme, 
three bay leaves, winter savor>^, a wineglass ofChablis, 
pepper and salt ; add 4 tablespoonsful of Yeatman's 
curry powder, and 4 of flour mixed with cold veal 
stock, about one quart or three pints. 

Let the whole boil together thirty minutes, then 
throw your fish in, cut in pieces or slices ; as soon as 
the fish is cooked take out the bunch of herbs, and 
serve some crusts of bread or toast in it. 

The fish which can be used for this soup are 



Turbot 


Pike 


Skate 


Gurnard 


Cod 


Mullet 


Sole 


Conger eel 


Brill 


Mackerel 


Salmon 


Ling 


Sturgeon 


Hake 


Dory 


Haddock 


Plaice 


Cockles 


Carp 


Oysters 


Thornback 


Mussels. 


Lobster 





82 HARE SOUP. 

Hare Soup. 

(From 'Dainty Dishes,' by Lady H. St. Clair.) 

I hare — newly killed ; 

I carrot ; 

I root of celery ; 

3 onions ; 

I oz. peppercorns — tied in a muslin bag ; 

I bunch of fine herbs ; 

Salt to taste ; 

I tablespoonful of ground rice — to be added after 
the hare soup is strained. 

Cut the hare in pieces, taking care to save the 
blood ; place the pieces in a large dish with the 
quantity of water, a quart to a pound of hare. Let 
it stand an hour. Add the blood, strain the liquid 
through a sieve into the stock-pot, add the hare, and 
put on fire. Stir till it boils, lest it curdle ; skim, then 
put in vegetables ; simmer for three hours ; pass 
through a hair sieve, add ground rice and simmer. 
The fillets of hare should be reserved, cut into dice, 
and served with the soup. 

Thick Hare Soup, No. 2. 

After opening the hare be careful to reserve the 
blood in a basin. Cut the meat into small pieces, 
and put it on to boil with three or four pints of water, 
•^ lb. of onions, i carrot, and I2 black peppercorns. 
Let it boil for four hours ; strain and add the blood, 
stirring it till it comes to boiling point. Let it remain 
on the fire for twenty minutes, adding a few leaves of 
celery to flavour, and potatoes if liked. 



CLEAR GROUSE SOUP. 83 

Clear Grouse Soup. 

Cut up two uncooked grouse or blackcock into 
small pieces, taking care to select old birds. Put the 
pieces into three pints of water, and let it simmer 
slowly for some hours. Add twelve black peppercorns 
and a shred onion and carrot. Strain before serving. 

Take out the best bits of the breast before they 
have been stewed too long ; press between two plates 
till cold ; cut them to the shape of almonds, and use 
as the ' floating ' garnish of the soup. 

Clear Hare Soup is made in a similar way. Veni- 
son Soup can be made like clear Hare Soup or like 
Thick Hare Soup. Bear in mind that all game used 
for soup must not only be free from taint, but be newly 
killed. 

Turtle Soup. 

(From dried Turtle.) 

The pieces of dried turtle require to be soaked in 
cold water for three days and three nights, the water 
being changed every morning. And as the turtle has 
to be cooked for twelve hours in the stock which 
forms the soup, four days are required to produce 
turtle soup. After the turtle has undergone soaking, 
it swells to three times its size when dry, it is then 
ready for putting into the stock. 

One pound of turtle is used for every three quarts 
of soup. 

The stock is made by laying slices of ham in the 
stock-pot, and then a knuckle of veal cut up, as in 
other soups ; cold water, a slow fire, and skimming. 



84 MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

The vegetables, put in at the usual stage, are to be 
green onions, bay leaves, a large bunch of fine herbs, 
and a handful of parsley. Pepper, salt in very 
moderate quantity (as else the long period during 
which the turtle cooks will make the soup too salt), 
and six cloves. When the stock is strained take out 
the onions, herbs, and parsley, and put them in a stew- 
pan with \ lb. butter and a blade of mace ; when the 
butter is melted add a little sugar, simmer on the fire 
a short time and then rub through a tamis ; add 
these to the soup after the turtle has been simmered in 
it for nearly the twelve hours ; add also a glass of 
good Madeira and a squeeze of lemon, and a little 
thin white ' roux. ' Turtle soup must not be much 
thickened, and must present a greenisJi colour, not a 
brown. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take a calf's head, with the skin on, and 4 pigs' 
feet ; wash and clean thoroughly ; reserve the brains 
and the tongue, with which a separate dish is made ; 
remove the palate. Put the head and feet in the 
stock-pot with a gallon of cold water, remove the 
scum as it rises, and add 

A bunch of fine herbs ; 2 carrots ; 

4 onions ; 2 sticks of celery, 

as in other stock-pots. When the flesh will come off 
the bones, remove the best parts and press them till 
cold. 

Take away the bones and replace the rest of the 
meat, and simmer for 3 hours. Strain, and when 



OX-TAIL SOUP. 85 

cold skim off the fat. The next day cut the pressed 
meat into dice (and prepare egg balls, if desired), as 
the floating part of the soup. Flavour the soup with 
I J glass good sherry and the juice of a lemon. Simmer 
with the meat in for half an hour. If ^g<g balls are 
added, do so only a minute before serving the soup. 



Ox-tail Soup. 

1 ox-tail ; 3 onions ; 

2 lbs. lean beef ; Thyme ; 

4 carrots ; 2 sticks of celery. 

Cut the tail into several pieces, and fry brown in 
butter. Slice the onions and carrots ; and when you 
remove the ox-tail from the frying-pan, put in these 
and brown also. When done, tie them in a bag with 
a bunch of thyme, and drop into the soup-pot. Lay 
the pieces of ox-tail in the same ; then the meat cut 
into small slices. Grate over them the two whole 
carrots, and add four quarts of cold water, with pepper 
and salt. Boil from four to six hours, in proportion 
to the size of the tail. Strain fifteen minutes before 
serving it, and thicken with two tablespoonsful of 
browned flour. Boil ten minutes longer. 

Cockie-leekie Soup. 

Skin a pheasant, and cut it up into small pieces 
to make a soup stock. Cut up eight white leeks, 
parboil them for ten minutes, pour off the water, and 
add the stock by degrees. Let it simmer for three 
hours, adding pepper and salt to taste. An allowance 
of two prunes to each guest should be dropped into 



86 GREEN PEA SOUP. 

this soup a quarter of an hour before serving. The 
leeks are said to be much better after they have been 
just touched by frost. 

This soup may be made of beef, but is best of 
fowl or pheasant. 

Green Pea Soup. 

In order that this soup should be a good colour 
the peas must not be old, and there must be a supply 
of young spinach leaves to produce a really pure 
green. 

In some gardens it is usual to sow cheap early 
sorts of peas, and to use the young growth when 
about eighteen inches high, for making pea-soup. 
The flavour is excellent, but gardeners of course 
consider it an extravagant arrangement. 

Lettuce leaves are also used with pea soup, but 
there is risk of a slightly bitter flavour if the stems 
are not taken away. 

The peas must be boiled till tender, then drained 
and passed through a hair sieve. The puree is mixed 
with a light-coloured broth, which must be flavoured 
strongly with onions, unless onions are boiled with 
the peas and passed through the sieve. The spinach 
leaves are to be bruised, and the green liquid mixed 
with cream (or milk), and after the puree and the 
broth are amalgamated to the thickness of cream and 
vv'armed, the spinach colouring is stirred in, and a 
pinch of powdered sugar must also be stirred in. 

The soup can be served with croutons handed 
round, or some very young peas can be boiled in 
water, caref^dly drained^ and thrown into the soup 



PEA SOUP. 87 

just before serving. Asparagus tips may be substituted 
for peas. 

In the country the productiveness of the garden 
and the forethought of the gardener will regulate the 
question of how many delicate vegetables can be 
used. In towns it is a mere question of expense. 



Green Pea Soup, No. 2. 

Take a quart of shelled peas or a peck of un- 
shelled ; separate the old peas from the young, 
reserving the latter to be used whole in the soup ; 
boil, and drain, and dry. Put the large peas in a 
stewpan with some fat bacon (or some butter), a 
little parsley, and enough water to cover the whole ; 
let them simmer till quite tender ; rub through a 
sieve, or pound in a mortar ; dilute this pease-paste 
with veal broth, strongly flavoured with onion, or, if 
for a maigre soup, with milk ; put in some spinach 
leaves or expressed juice for the sake of the colour ; 
pass through a tamis ; put in the tender young 
peas ; let them just warm, and serve. If there are no 
young peas, serve croutons cut very small. 

Winter Pea Soup. 

Flavour, not colour, is the characteristic of winter 
pea soup, and dried or split peas require longer 
boiling before they can be rubbed through a sieve. 

Haricot beans and lentils also make excellent 
Avinter soups. The processes are the same ; they all 
require onions and celery to be incorporated with the 



88 SOUPS WITH ITALIAN PASTES. 

puree, and they can be made with very weak stock, 
or even without any meat stock, by using milk and 
water to mix with the puree. Small dice of bacon 
which has been steamed or parboiled can be put in 
the soup and just warmed before serving. Croutons 
and dried mint are handed round with the soup. 

If the peas, haricots, or lentils are old, it is desir- 
able to steep them in cold water twelve hours before- 
hand ; drain, and then boil for the puree. 

Boiling a ham bone in the broth or water with 
which dried pea soup is made greatly improves the 
flavour. No salt is to be added in this case, but a 
little sugar instead. 

Soups with Italian Pastes. 

Macaroni is to be broken into even lengths of 
\ inch. 

Vermicelli is to be broken into even lengths of 
I inch. 

Italian paste letters may be used as a variety. 

Allow a tablespoonful of vermicelli or macaroni 
to each guest : or, by weight, ^ oz. to each plate of 
soup. Blanch in hot water, and drain ; then simmer 
in the stock. 

These pastes differ in the time they require to 
plim, and experience only can fix the time required 
for that purpose. 

Rice and semolina may be used in the same way. 

French or Groult's tapioca in pale delicate-flavoured 
stock, boiled so as to dissolve, gives a peculiarly 
nourishing soup, and is very wholesome and palatable. 



EGG SOUPS. 



Bonne Femme and other Egg Soups. 

When the broth is either poor in flavour of meat 
or not transparent, as happens in second boiUngs, 
very good soup can be made by adding yolks of eggs 
stirred up in milk and mixed carefully with the broth. 
Shreds of lettuce or of sorrel are added, or of asparagus 
tips or French beans. 

The Qgg mixture should not be added till the 
soup is poured into the tureen ; or, if added to the 
soup in the saucepan, it must be very carefully stirred 
and not allowed to boil, otherwise it will curdle. 

Jenny Lind Soup. 

2 ozs. pearl sago ; \ pint cream ; 

^ pint water ; 4 yolks of eggs. 

I quart stock or veal broth ; 

The sago must be thoroughly washed and sim- 
mered in the water till it is transparent and tender. 
It is then to be mixed into the boiling stock, or broth, 
and the cream. Lastly, the yolks are to be stirred 
in. The best v/ay to produce a smooth soup is to 
stir the eggs one by one into a teacupful of the broth, 
and then stir that into the soup. 

The cream may be omitted. The stock may be 
made without vegetables, if for an invalid. 



90 BISQUE. 

Bisque, or Crayfish Soup. 

Wash four dozen crayfish and put them in a stew- 
pan with sliced carrots and onions, pepper, salt, fine 
herbs, some stock, and a glass of sherry. Boil for 
ten minutes ; then take out the meat from the tails 
to be used as garnish in the bisque. Simmer in stock 
\ lb. of rice ; put the crayfish, shells, and rice in a 
mortar, and pound the whole to a pulp ; add the 
liquid, &c., in which the crayfish were boiled, and 
pass through a tamis ; warm in the bain-marie, and 
add a little cream or butter to give smoothness. The 
meat from the tail is to be cut into pieces the size of 
a large pea, and just warmed in the soup. Crotatons 
of bread cut in dice are to be dried, or slightly browned 
in the oven, and handed with the bisque. This soup 
is too rich to admit of the croutons being fried. The 
soup can be made with lobsters or prawns. The shell 
of the body alone must be pounded with the meat. 

Nudel Soup. 

(German Recipe.) 

Beat two eggs well, and make into a firm paste 
with flour ; knead it well, and divide it into two 
equal parts ; make of each a little loaf, and roll it out 
thin ; dry these, but do not let the paste harden ; roll 
it up and cut into small pieces about the size of a 
gooseberry {iindebi) ; scatter them separately into 
boiling salt and water, and boil quickly. Strain off 
the water, and boil them again in brown or white 
broth previously prepared ; season to taste, and serve 
after it has simmered for a quarter of an hour. 



QUEEN'S SOUP. 91 

This soup is stronger if the mideln, instead of 
being boiled in salt water, are put straight into the 
soup ; but then the soup is naturally not so clear. 

Queen's Soup. 

Skin and clean out the inside oi three fowls or 
chickens ; wash them in warm water ; stew for . an 
hour with sufficient strong veal broth to cover the 
meat, and a bunch of parsley. Take out the fowls, 
and soak the crumb of a small loaf in the liquor ; cut 
the meat off; take away the skin, and pound the 
flesh in a mortar, adding the soaked crumb and the 
yolks of five hard-boiled eggs ; rub this through a 
coarse sieve or tamis, and put into it a quart of 
cream that has been previously boiled. 

Purees. 

As this expression is used in three senses, it is 
necessary to explain and define what is meant by 
each. 

All purees are the result of boiling or stewing the 
fruit, vegetable, or cereal, in broth or water, and 
passing the mixture through a more or less fine 
sieve or tamis. 

If the puree is to be served separately as a vege- 
table, not as a soup, it must be almost solid. 

If it is to be used for soup, it is diluted with broth 
or stock, and other additions, till the mixture is of 
the consistency of thick cream. 

Or if the puree is to be used as sauce, a different 
thickness or thinness is required ; not uniform, but 



92 PUREES. 

varying according to the materials. For instance, 
apple and tomato sauces are to be thicker than celery 
or chestnut sauces. Practice and discriminating taste 
must adjust rules and exceptions. 

Puree soups should be of the consistency of cream, 
and perfectly smooth and free from lumps. The addi- 
tion of cream gives greater smoothness to all purees, 
and is necessary when they are made without meat ; 
but these soups will keep sweet for only twelve hours. 
The time for simmering and the quantity of water 
differ according as the vegetable is young and tender, 
or old and hard. Dried peas, &c., must be soaked 
beforehand. The simmering must produce a pulp 
which will pass through the tamis or wire sieve, and 
the broth must be added and stirred in to the requisite 
consistency. Beware of salt, as the simmering in 
this as in all cases where the liquid reduces, makes 
the stock or soup increasingly salt. 

This class of soups may be made with 

Carrots Barley 

Turnips Rice 

Jerusalem artichokes Rice and tomatoes 

Green peas Chestnuts 

Dried peas Spinach 

Haricot beans Asparagus 

Lentils Pistachio nuts 

Potatoes Celery 

A mixture of carrots, turnips, and potatoes. 

They all require onions and celery to give flavour. 
They must all be passed through a sieve, and the 
vegetables or cereals may be stewed in weak broth, 



GIBLET SOUP. 93 

or in water with some butter if for inaigre soups ; and 
with all of them it is usual to serve small dice of 
bread fried in butter. 

Puree of Tomato Soup. 

Allow two tomatoes to each ration of soup ; 
simmer them in weak broth with a small quantity of 
rice till they are tender ; pass through a tamis. 

If onions are liked, simmer one or two and pass 
through the tamis with the tomatoes. Season with 
salt and a little sugar. Dilute the puree with broth 
till it is about the thickness of ' double cream,' and 
warm for use. Serve with croutons. 

This soup does not require cream or milk in it, 
but, if it is made with water instead of broth, cream 
must be added. The same rule holds good for all 
purees. 

Puree of Turnip Soup. 

Cut up the turnips into small pieces, pour cold 
water on them, and let them steep and strain. 

Put them in a stewpan to stew with a piece of 
butter, and add pepper and salt. When they are soft 
pass them through the tamis. With a little spoonful 
of hot water or hot broth, wash out the pan in which 
they were cooked, and add all to the puree, with \ lb. 
of potato flour, a little more salt, and the quantity of 
broth you require. 

Giblet Soup. 

Scald two sets of goose, or four sets of duck's giblets, 
using them when the birds are killed, not saving to 



94 NOTCH POTCH. 

use after the ducks or geese are roasted— in compliance 
with a rule that all meat used in and for soup must 
be quite fresh. 

Divide the gizzards and necks into small pieces ; 
split and clean the head, and cut off the nose. 

Put them in a stewpan, with enough cold water 
to cover them ; skim as the simmering goes on ; then 
put in a bundle of fine herbs, an onion, an extra sprig 
of parsley, and some black peppercorns in a muslin 
bag ; continue to simmer till the gizzards are tender 
— from I to 1 1 hours. 

If the giblet soup is to be clear, take out the 
pieces from the stewpan, and use them in a rich clear 
soup. If the giblet soup is to be thick, proceed as 
follows : — 

Melt i\ ozs. of butter, and stir in enough flour 
(dried previously) to make a paste ; dilute with the 
giblet broth, adding any weak broth that may be 
.available ; simmer for \ hour ; season with a squeeze 
of lemon juice, a glass of white wine, and a touch of 
cayenne ; put in the giblets to get hot, and serve. 

Lemon and cayenne may be handed round, not 
put in, if preferred. 

Hotch Potch. 

(' Dainty Dishes,' by Lady H. St. Clair.) 

Neck, or breast, or two scrags of mutton, cut in 
small pieces, and the fat removed ; 

2 quarts water ; 

I quart old peas ; 

I pint young peas, added later ; 



I 



SOUPE MAIGRE. 95 

6 carrots n 

6 turnips ' 

3 sticks celery i cut into dice, 

7 young onions' 

and put in the stock pot after the broth has boiled up 
and been skimmed. 

Stew for 8 hours ; pick out the bones, and only 
serve the best bits of the meat. 

(The next day pass all that remains of soup, meat, 
and vegetables through the tamis, and serve as 
Puree a la St. Clair.) 

Milk of Almonds Soupe Maigre. 

Blanch 12 ozs. of rice and put in a bain-marie 
or milk saucepan with one quart of fresh milk, a pinch 
of salt and a pinch of sugar ; let it simmer for one 
hour. Blanch and skin f lb. of sweet almonds and 
about eight or ten bitter almonds, and pound them in 
a mortar, with just a spoonful or two of milk to pre- 
vent their turning to oil ; then dilute with enough 
milk to enable the mixture to pass through the 
tamis. Mix the almond milk with the rice m.ilk, 
stir together and serve. Add sugar to taste, if sugar 
is liked. The rice milk must be hot enough to bear 
the cold almond milk, and the soup to be warm. 

Soupe Maigre. 

To 2 quarts of water put a quart of dry peas, 
2 large onions, one head of celery, a carrot, 2 turnips, 
a handful of spinach, and a sprig of mint. Stew all 
till quite soft ; strain and pass through a sieve. Put 



96 SOUPE MAIGRE. 

the pulp and water back into the stewpan, with a 
lettuce sliced, a small piece of butter, and two or three 
lumps of sugar. Put it on a quick fire again for ten 
minutes or so. If a bad colour, add a little spinach 
juice. 

Some small asparagus chopped is an improve- 
ment. 

Summer Soupe Maigre. 

The hearts of 6 lettuces cut in pieces, 3 cucumbers 
pared and sliced, one pint of young peas (to be added 
later), 2 large onions, a little parsley chopped fine, 
\ lb. of fresh butter, and two or three lumps of sugar. 
Stew all together an hour, stirring often. Have ready 
2 quarts of peas boiled in a gallon of water. Put them 
through a hair sieve to the water in which they were 
boiled. * Add to this the lettuces and cucumbers, and 
simmer i^ hours. When done take out the onions. 
Dip in a sprig of mint before it is taken off the fire. 



Cheap Soupe Maigre. 

2 quarts green peas ; A bunch fine herbs ; 

2 onions sliced ; 2 quarts hot water. 

Stew for ^ an hour. Add mashed potatoes, or 
plimmed rice, and pass through a tamis. Season with 
pepper, salt and sugar (a tablespoonful) ; add a pint of 
new milk, stir till the mixture is smooth, and then 
warm. Serve croutons of bread fried in butter. 

A similar soup is made with roots, but as they 
require unequal time, observe the following rules : — 



SOUPE MAIGRE. 97 

Carrots . . . .2 hours 

Celery . . . .1 hour 

Turnips . . • • 2 >> 

Shallots . . . • i „ 



Lentil Soupe Maigre. 

For four persons. 

i^ lbs. lentils ; soak in cold water for 24 hours ; 
drain. Stew in a very small quantity of water ; skim. 
Pass through a tamis. Boil an onion in milk and 
pass through with the lentils. Make the puree the 
necessary thinness with milk, and stir in 2 ozs. 
butter ; salt and pepper to taste. 

White Soupe Maigre. 

For four persons. 

I pint milk ; 2 pints boiling water ; 

3 tablespoonsful flour. 

A little vegetable flavour (onions or celery), pepper 
and salt ; let the flour just cook in the milk. 

Stir in the yolks of two eggs, and do not let them 
turii the soup. 

Asparagus points, carrots cut in dice, or young 
peas, parboiled and then warmed in butter, may be 
thrown in. 

Fried bread (in little squares) is to be sent up on 
a napkin, and handed round with this soup. 



H 



98 MUTTON BROTH. 

Pearl Barley Soupe Maigre. 

For four persons. 

Take \ lb. of pearl barley ; boil it for 5 hours 
in 2 quarts of water, which must reduce to i quart. 
Pass through a tamis ; season with salt and pepper, 
and stir in ijozs. of fresh butter, or, if preferred, some 
cream, or a gill of milk into which the yolk of one 
^^^ has been stirred. 

A variety can be made by putting in some chopped 
parsley, or a few young peas (boiled), so as to have the 
contrast of green with the white puree. 

Puree of Game, Chicken, or Rabbit Soup. 

The remains of roast grouse, partridge, &c., should 
be carefully saved to make puree of game soup. Any 
part which is high must be removed before the car- 
casses, breasts, &c., are put away in the cold-meat 
larder. The meat is to be carefully scraped away 
from the bones, pounded in a mortar, diluted with 
stock, and passed through a tamis. This puree is 
to be mixed with well-seasoned stock ; the soup 
ought to be the consistence of double cream. If the 
game puree is not quite enough, a small amount of 
rice stewed in broth may be passed through the 
tamis with the game. 

Mutton Broth. 

Take the scrag end of one or two necks of mutton ; 
reserve the ' best end ' for cutlets, or for roasting, but 
use for the broth the scrag when newly killed and the 



SCOTCH BROTH. 99 

juices not dried up ; and hang the best end till it is 
tender. 

Cut the scrag into small junks. Allow a pint of 
water to a pound of scrag ; put on in cold water ; when 
it boils, skim, and remove to side of fire, and let it 
simmer, and continue to skim. Have ready cut up 
carrots, turnips, onions, leeks or chibbals, celery, and 
well-washed rice ; when the broth is clear of scum 
and fat, put in the vegetables and rice and salt. 
Simmer till all are done ; take out the rough bits oi 
bone, &c., but send up the meat in the broth ; and 
sprinkle in chopped parsley two minutes before serving. 
Not less than four hours are required for the whole 
process. Barley can be used instead of rice ; barley 
requires a long time to plim in water before it is put 
in the broth, and a long time to simmer in the broth ; 
a rather large quantity of water may be used. 

As in the case of hotch potch, the remains of this 
soup may be passed through a tamis, and served as 
a puree soup next day. 

Scotch Broth. 

Take the scrag end of a neck of mutton. Trim 
off all superfluous fat. Put the meat into a saucepan 
with one pint of water to every pound of meat, and 
allow one pint of water for boiling over. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and \\ ozs. of pearl barley, for every 
quart of water. Bring it to the boil and remove the 
scum as it rises. Then add a cabbage, well washed, 
and cut into small pieces, and 2 carrots, scraped and 
cut into dice, and i leek. Let the broth boil up, and 

H 2 



100 CHEAP SOUP. 

then simmer gently for i ^ hours. Add a turnip, washed, 
scraped, and cut into dice. Simmer for another half 
hour. The broth will then be ready. Take out the 
meat and bones ; pour the broth into a tureen, and 
add a teaspoonful of fine fresh chopped parsley. Some 
persons prefer the meat left in the broth ; in which 
case it should be taken off the bones, and cut into 
neat pieces. If the soup is to be extra good, the best 
end of the neck of mutton may be boiled in it, and 
either cut into small cutlets and left in the broth, or 
served as a separate dish. A neck of veal or of 
venison may be used instead of a neck of mutton. 

Cheap Soup. 

2 ozs. dripping ; 

J lb. solid uncooked meat cut in dice, 

one inch square ; 
\ lb. onions ; 
^ lb. turnips ; 

2 ozs. leeks ; 

3 ozs. celery ; 

J lb. rice, or pearl barley ; 

2 ozs. salt ; 

^ oz. brown sugar ; 

6 quarts water. 

Put in a stewpan the dripping, meat, onions sliced, 
and sugar ; stir till fried a light brown. Then add 
turnips, celery, leeks ; stir for ten minutes ; add i 
quart cold water and the rice, and let it heat. To 
this put 5 quarts hot water ; stir, and simmer for 3 
hours. 



FISH, 



lOI 



CHAPTER XIV. 

FISH. 

Much choice cannot be exercised in the selection of 
fish. The fishmonger sends fish according to the 
season and the supply for the number of persons re- 
quired ; and it is in the dressing and sauce that the 
cook's discernment can be shown. The appropriate 
sauces are given with the recipes for cooking fish. 

When the supply of fish is derived from the fish- 
monger, it is sent cleaned and ready for cooking ; 
but if brought fresh from the sea, lake, or ri\'er, it has 
to be carefully cleaned and Vv-ashed. There should 
be a pair of sharp-pointed scissors and a knife kept 
for the purpose. The scales must be scraped off 
(fish can be more easily scaled if dipped for a minute 
into boiling water) ; an opening made at the side, 
beginning from near the head ; the entrails must be 
taken out (but not the roe, either soft or hard), and 
all blood, &c., be carefully washed out. The fish 
must be washed thoroughly, and then dried with a 
coarse cloth. 

Salmon, turbot, and cod are best boiled ; the im- 
portant point in boiling is that they should be made 
firm, not pulpy, by the process. The water must be 



I02 FISH 

strongly impregnated with salt, from 4 ozs. to 8 ozs. 
(in the case of salmon), and \ oz. saltpetre to a gallon 
of water added, and must boil when the fish is put in. 

It is not desirable to cook a large salmon or cod 
whole, the thickest parts requiring a longer time than 
the tail. Slices of cod and slices of salmon are 
therefore to be preferred. In the case of turbot the 
difference of thickness is not so great, and turbot may 
be boiled whole ; but an incision is to be made along 
the backbone on the dark side. 

Small pieces of large fish, or small fish, lose so 
much of their flavour if boiled, that it is far better to 
wrap them in buttered paper and cook them in the 
oven. Care must be taken not to overcook them, and 
sauce of a piquant character must be selected to serve 
separately. 

Fillets of fish make very good dishes, either fried 
in breadcrumbs and eggs, or in batter, or baked and 
served with sauce over them, arranged like cutlets. 

The cold scraps of fish are to be kept, making 
good breakfast dishes, such as kedgeree or fish cakes. 



Home-made Isinglass. 

The bones of turbot and of all fish that are boiled 
should be taken care of, and boiled dCwn for aspic 
jelly. The process consists in boiling down the bones, 
straining the liquid, testing a small quantity to ascer- 
tain if it is stiff enough, and simmering till the jelly 
formed will bear the addition of a little wine or 
vinegar, and be a jelly when cold. 



SALMON, 103 



To boil Salmon. 



To every 3 lbs. of salmon put i lb. of salt and 
sufficient water to cover the fish with saltpetre in the 
proportion of \ oz. to a gallon of water. Let the salt 
and water be thoroughly boiling, and skim it before 
putting in the fish. Boil quickly, allowing ten minutes 
to the pound, and serve immediately. 

Slices of salmon should be cut an inch thick. 

The appropriate sauces are mayonnaise, tartar, or 
a little of the water in which it has been boiled. 

Salmon Curry. 

Take a large onion ; cut it into small slices, and 
fry to a light brown in an ounce of butter ; put it into 
three-quarters of a pint of strong stock, with a table- 
spoonful of curry powder, a teaspoonful of anchovy 
sauce, the juice of half a lemon, cayenne, and salt to 
taste ; simmer all gently till the onion is tender, 
stirring it occasionally ; cut the remains of any boiled 
salmon into small square pieces ; carefully take away 
all skin and bone ; lay it in the stewpan, and let it 
gradually heat through, but do not let it boil long. 

Fresh salmon cut in slices may be curried in the 
same manner, but must be allowed to cook a much 
longer time. 

Salmon Steaks. 

Dry well with a cloth, dredge with flour, and la}- 
them upon a well-buttered gridiron over clear hot 
coals. Turn with a broad-bladed knife slipped be- 



I04 TURBOT. 

neath, and a flat wire egg-beater above, lest the steak 
should break. When done to a light brown, lay in a 
hot dish, butter each steak, seasoning with salt and 
pepper, cover closely, and serve. 

Tinned Salmon. 

This is a very useful article to keep in the store 
room. The best modes of using preserved salmon 
are fish cakes, a curry, or a mayonnaise. The oil 
which sometimes exudes from salmon must be al- 
lowed to drain away before using. 

In making the fish cakes allow equal weights of 
mashed potato and salmon. 

Norwegian Lax (Salmon). 

This preparation of salmon is eaten without any 
cooking process. The tin is placed on a dish in 
which a napkin has been folded, and handed round 
with slices of dry toast and butter. 

The lax keeps good for about three days after the 
tin is opened. 

Turbot and Brill. 

After cleaning and washing the fish, let it disgorge 
in cold water for an hour, or less if it is quite white in 
a shorter time. Let it drain ; then make on the grey 
side an incision about an inch in length right in the 
middle, near the head ; tie it up, head to tail ; rub 
with a lemon, and place on the frame which fits into 
the turbot kettle ; cover with cold water in which salt 
and saltpetre have been dissolved ; place on the stove, 
and when near boiling, skim. Let it continue to 



n.ii 




- ^, 







Wr 



A?? 




TURBOT. 



105 



bubble, but not boil. Three-quarters of an hour is 
about the time for a turbot of 10 or 12 lbs. — rather 




COPPER FISH-KETTLE. 

more if thick. When cooked enough, if }-ou prick it 
with a twine needle, the liquid that comes out will be 
white like milk. 

I gallon water ; 

4 ozs. salt ; 

\ oz. saltpetre. 

The appropriate sauce is Dutch sauce. 



Turbot au Gratin. 

This is prepared from turbot (or an}- white sea- 
fish) which has been already boiled. The remains 
must be separated into flakes w-ith a spoon, not cut. 
A cream sauce must be ready, and a little grated 
Parmesan cheese and a squeeze of lemon is to be 
stirred in. Mix this with the flakes of fish, place in a 
shallow fireproof china dish, cover with breadcrumbs 
which have been steeped in butter and browned, place 
in the oven for twenty minutes, and send to table in 



io6 JOHN DORY. 

the same dish. If the top is not brown, use a sala- 
mander to give it the proper tint. 

Brill a la Ravigotte. 

Take a small brill, and score it down the back ; 
season with salt and pepper, and either grill it over 
a slow fire, or wrap in buttered paper and bake in the 
oven ; prepare a mayonnaise sauce with the following 
additions — tarragon, chervil, capers, mustard, cayenne, 
and a little spinach green ; mix the sauce thoroughly, 
and serve in a tureen. 

Dory. 

The John Dory or Poisson de St. Pierre is a very 
ugly fish, but is highly esteemed from the firmness 
of its flesh ; those which are thickest across the 
shoulders are the best.^ 

Have ready a fish-kettle of spring water boiling, 
throw in a handful of salt, put the fish on the drainer 
and boil for 20 minutes — of course a small dory 
requires a shorter time — lift the drainer out and take 
care in transferring the fish to the dish, on which a 
napkin has been placed over the earthenware drainer. 

Serve Dutch sauce in a sauce-boat, or brown caper 
sauce, according to taste and to the other sauces of 
the dinner that day. 

Skate. 

Skate is boiled in the same way as turbot ; the 
appropriate sauce is black butter. 

' Mr. F. Buckland says dorys are better for being kept one or two 
days. 



COD. 107 

Gurnard. 

Gurnard, a heavy-headed fish, is not on that account 
despicable ; the flesh is firm and the flavour good. 
It is best stuffed with a bread-and-herbs stuffing, and 
baked. 

Any of the usual sauces for fish, or a tomato sauce, 
may be sent up in a sauce-boat. 

Cod. 

In boiling cod, a smaller quantity of salt is used 
than in boiling salmon ; I oz. salt to a quart of 
water is the proportion. 

Place the cod on the fish-strainer in the fish-kettle, 
cover with cold water (salted as above), let it come 
almost to the boil, then simmer slowly for five m.inutes ; 
skim. Test by touching the fish with the handle of 
the spoon to ascertain if it will flake from the bone. 
Take care it is not sodden or overcooked ; lift the 
fish-strainer, and let all the water run off before 
dishing the fish on a napkin. 

Sliced Cod. 

Cod, if intended for only three or four persons, 
should not be boiled. The slices should either be 
wrapped in buttered paper, and baked in the oven for 
about half an hour, or powdered with breadcrumbs 
and broiled. Oyster sauce, ^^^ sauce, brown caper 
sauce, or anchovy sauce may be sent up ; oyster 
sauce of course being recognised as the most appro- 
priate of these sauces for cod in any form. 



io8 RED MULLET. 



Red Mullet. 



If you get red mullet fresh from the sea, dress 
them as is done with woodcock retaining the trail ; 
but inland this is not a safe proceeding. 

They can be wrapped in buttered paper, baked in 
the oven and sent up in the buttered paper ; about -^ 
an hour is the time in a fairly heated oven. Or broiled ; 
or fried ; the appropriate sauce is Italian sauce : — 

Chopped shallot or onion ; 

Chopped mushroom ; 

Chopped fine herbs ; 

Mixed in brown sauce, and diluted with a glass of 
Chablis wine. 

Red Mullet en papillottes. 

When this fish is fresh from the sea, and can be 
dressed with the ' trail ' in, cook it as follows : — 

Take out the gills, and that part of the trail which 
is connected with them, but do not open the fish. 

Prepare as many pieces of strong white paper as 
there are mullets, long and wide enough to wrap round 
and fold over the fish. Place on a baking-tin in a 
moderately hot oven, and bake. Heat a skewer, and 
mark the paper transversely, to give it the look of 
being broiled on a gridiron. Serve with Italian 
sauce. 

Broiled Mackerel (Fresh), 

Clean the mackerel, wash, and wipe ary. Split it 
open, so that when laid flat the backbone will be in 



SOLE. 109 

the middle. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and lay on a 
buttered gridiron over a clear fire, with the inside 
downward, until it begins to brown ; then turn the 
other. When quite done, lay on a hot dish and butter 
it plentifully. Turn another hot dish over the lower 
one, and let it stand two or three minutes before 
sending to table. 

Mackerel a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Split the mackerel all the way down, season it 
with pepper and salt, put it in a dish in the oven, 
with just enough butter to prevent it drying up. Put 
it on another dish, and lay two or three bits of mattre 
d' hotel butter on it. Serve very hot. 

Fried Sole. 

The principles of frying soles, whitings, and other 
fish are the same. 

The fish must be perfectly clean, and perfectly 
fresh. If the latter point is in the slightest degree 
doubtful, do not attempt to fry it whole, but remove 
the fillets from the bone, and cut off the parts near 
the head and at the edges, and wash with vinegar 
and water. 

After the sole has been cleaned it must be 
thoroughly dried, and just dredged with flour, which 
completes the drying. Have ready plenty of sifted 
breadcrumbs, and enough yolk of ^%g well beaten to 
coat the fish all over : this is done with a brush. Then 
let every part be covered with breadcrumbs. Take 
care that the lard is hot enough — that is, quite boiling — 



no SOLE. 

or the fish will be hmp ; and that it is not discoloured. 
Let the fish be of a golden brown ; place it when fried 
on a paper before the fire to evaporate the grease. 
Serve on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and 
send up lemon as the adjunct or sauce. 

Sole a I'Aurore. 

Butter a tin dish and lay the sole on it with a 
buttered paper over ; put it in the oven for ten 
minutes ; take it out and carefully remove the centre 
bone, strew a little chopped onion and parsley, and 
replace the upper fillets ; pour over a white sauce, 
return to the oven. Have some hard-boiled eggs ; 
garnish the side with the white cut in shapes, and 
sprinkle the top with the yolk made into crumbs by 
passing through a coarse sieve ; let it get quite hot in 
the oven. 

Sole au Gratin. 

You must have a shallow tinned dish the size of 
your sole — or a fireproof china dish of the shape of a 
sole — in which the sole is to be cooked and sent to 
table ; there being another dish on which the first is 
placed. 

The sole must be tolerably thick ; the fins and 
tail and head are trimmed off, and an incision made 
down the back. Place it in the dish with butter, salt 
and pepper, and 2 tablespoonsful of Chablis, some 
chopped parsley, fine herbs, shallot, and button mush- 
rooms (if available, but they are not essential). Put it 
in the oven ; when one side is done take the dish out. 



PI. III. 






FLOUNDER. 



SOLE. ' III 

turn the fish on its other side ; add either some brown 
sauce (espagnole), or some little dabs of butter and 
flour ; sprinkle with breadcrumbs which have been 
browned, and finish in the oven. If the sole does 
not look a rich browm, use the salamander ; and send 
it up with the sauce &c. round it, glutinous not 
watery. 

Sole a la Trouville. 

Remove the dark skin from a pair of soles ; cut 
each sole into three pieces. Line a ' gratin ' dish with 
butter and breadcrumbs and onions chopped very 
fine, put the dish in the oven to brown, and pour in a 
wine-glass of cider, and let it boil ; then range the 
pieces of sole on the dish, and return to the oven. 
After it has cooked for a few minutes, cover it with 
butter worked up with flour and chopped parsley, and 
finish the cooking. Send up in the dish in which the 
fish is cooked. 

The same dish may be made with fillets of sole 
instead of whole soles. 



Sole a la Normande. 

Select a fine thick sole ; take off the skin ; butter 
a stewpan large enough to hold it flat, and put the 
sole in it, with some bits of butter on the fish, a dozen 
oysters, a dozen mussels, which have been blanched in 
boiling water, a chopped-up onion, a sprig of thyme, 
and one or two of parsley, a little of that form of 
truffle called * Pelures de truffes,' some white pepper 
and some salt, and a glass of equal quantities of 



112 SOLE. 

Chablis and broth. Cover the stewpan, and let it 
cook till three-parts done. 

Take it off the fire, and carefully remove the sole 
to a china or silver dish which will bear baking. 

Meanwhile there must have been prepared a rich 
sauce by mixing scraps of veal and bacon with a little 
flour and butter in a stewpan, then broth and vege- 
table flavours. Let it cook on the fire, but not become 
brown. Strain the sauce twice, adding the sauce in 
which the sole was stewed ; but do not obtain a watery 
sauce. Stir in the yolks of two eggs ; pour this sauce 
over the sole ; garnish it with the oysters and other 
accessories, and with some sippets of bread which 
have been browned in the stewpan. Add button 
mushrooms, which must be saiUe first. Cover the 
dish when it has been thus daintily arranged, and let 
it finish cooking in the oven. Any fish with firm 
flesh may be dressed in the same way. If this dish 
is to be eaten on a maigre day, make the broth with 
fish bones, and add a little cream as no meat stock is 
used. 

Fillets of Sole au Gratin. 

Put the following ingredients in a dish which 
will bear oven-heat : chopped onions, mushrooms and 
herbs, with enough butter to prevent their adhering. 
Arrange the fillets neatly on the dish ; mix equal 
quantities of brown sauce and Chablis wine, and pour 
round the fillets ; if you have more of this mixture 
than is required, reserve for subsequent I "sting 
Sprinkle breadcrumbs and fine herbs mixed over 
the fillets ; and over the breadcrumbs pour a little 



WHITIXG QUENELLES. 113 

butter just dissolved. During the time the dish is 
in the oven, it must be watched to see that no part 
dries up, the reserve of sauce or of dissolved butter 
being used to baste the fillets : do not attempt to 
save trouble by placing all the sauce and all the 
butter in the dish at once. 15 to 20 minutes according 
to thickness of fillets ; the oven must be of moderate 
heat. 

Fillets of Sole a la Orly. 

Prepare your fillets by steeping them for an hour 
in lemon-juice, pepper, salt, parsley, and slices of 
onion ; drain and dr}- the fillets. 

Fry in batter, or in a thick coat of flour ; serve on 
a napkin, and prepare a puree of tomato sauce to 
hand round with the fillets. 

Bream Grilled. 

Take a sharp knife and score the bream down the 
back ; rub in a little pepper and salt ; butter a gridiron, 
and grill the fish at a moderate temperature, or wrap 
it in buttered paper and bake it in the oven. Serve 
with brown caper sauce. 

Whiting Quenelles. 

Take i lb. fillet of whiting and rub it through a 
tamis ; add \ lb. butter, \ lb. panada ; season with 
pepper and salt ; beat up two eggs and mix in, and 
also some fish broth which you have previously made 
with the bones of the whiting. Work up the whole 
till it is perfectly smooth ; if necessary, pass through 

I 



114 SALT FISH. 

the tamis. Make into quenelles with two table- 
spoons, poach in fish broth, and serve with a sauce 
made of puree of prawns. If the coral of lobster can 
be obtained, the sauce should be coloured with that. 

Fillets of Whiting a la Orly. 

Take fillets of whiting, and, if the fillets are large, 
divide them into two ; season them with pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice ; coat them with flour, and fry them 
over a brisk fire. Arrange them neatly on a napkin 
with fried parsley, and send up tomato sauce in a 
sauce-boat. 

Salt Fish a la Lyonnaise. 

Soak the salt fish for two or three days, changing 
the water ; parboil it, dip it into cold water and let it 
drain upon a sieve ; meanwhile slice up some onions, 
and fry them in butter till they begin to turn yellow ; 
remove the bones from the fish ; season with pepper, 
mustard, and a dash of vinegar ; mix it in with the 
fried onions, and let it finish cooking ; serve very hot. 

Salt Fish a la Bonne Femme. 

Wash and peel a dozen potatoes, and trim as many 
onions ; cut into largish pieces as much salt fish as 
will serve for six persons ; lay the potatoes at the 
bottom of the stewpan, next the onions, next again 
the salt fish, which has previously been well washed 
in tepid water. Put in enough water to cover the 
whole, and simmer till the fish is cooked ; take that 
out ; let the onions and potatoes complete their cook- 



WHITEBAIT. 115 

ing ; trim the pieces of salt fish and remove the 
bones. Take another stewpan, and dissolve in it 
\ lb. of butter and i oz. of flour stirred into milk ; let 
the sauce simmer for ten minutes, then put in the 
potatoes, onions, fish, in order as before ; let it simmer 
another ten minutes, and serve. — Gogue. 

Whitebait. 

Whitebait must be perfectly fresh when sent from 
the fishmonger, and they must be kept in iced water 
or salted water till they are to be cooked. Flour a 
cloth ; lift the whitebait out with a skimmer, and place 
them on it ; dredge flour, and toss the fish in the 
cloth, but do not touch. Throw them on to a sieve, 
and shake it. Each fish must have a coating of flour ; 
but they must not cling together. The frying-pan 
must have plenty of boiling lard ; the whitebait must 
only be in it for two minutes. Lift them with the 
skimmer, letting the fat drain off. Dish on a fish- 
strainer (silver is best), and serve hot. 

Slices of brown bread and butter, sections of lemon, 
and a cayenne pepper bottle are arranged on a dish 
and handed round. 

Gudgeons. 

Choose them small, if you can choose ; dip them 
in milk, sprinkling a little salt and pepper on them ; 
coat them with flour, and fry in boiling lard ; dish 
them up in a heap on a napkin or silver drainer ; sur- 
round with fried parsley, and serve with bread and 
butter and sections of lemon. 



ii6 CARP. 



Shad {or 'Alose'). 

This is a sea fish which goes into fresh water, and 
is in best condition when taken in a river. 

It is very good wrapped in buttered paper and 
baked, viaitre cCJwtel butter being laid on it when the 
paper is taken off, and sorrel sauce served separately. 

If a large fish, it can be roasted, or boiled in salted 
water ; or fillets may be cut, smite in butter, ar- 
ranged on a dish in the usual way, with sauces as above. 

Shad with Sorrel. 

Score the fish in thwart lines the whole length; 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and grill on the grid- 
iron ; when done on one side, carefully turn on the 
other. Put a little butter from time to time ; serve a 
thick puree of sorrel in a sauce-boat. 

Carp. 

If it is possible to pour a glass of vinegar into the 
mouth of this fish as soon as caught, the taste of mud 
passes off through its skin, and the flesh is rendered 
firm. 

If this is not done, it must after cleaning be allowed 
to disgorge in salt, vinegar, and water. 

It may be split up and fried in a coating of flour ; 
or grilled with maitre dliotel butter ; or stewed in a 
rich sauce a ritalienne. 

The hard and soft roe can be taken out and mixed 
with the sauce, or served on croutons as garnish. 



HERRING. 117 



Baked Carp. 

Clean your fish thoroughly ; stuff it with savoury 
force-meat, and sew it up to prevent the stuffing falling 
out. Brush it over with ^gg, and sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs, and drop a little melted butter over them- 
Lay it in a deep earthen dish ; take ^ pint of stock, 
a couple of sliced onions, some sweet herbs, i pint 
of claret or other French wine, with a teaspoonful of 
anchovy sauce. Put this with the fish, and bake for 
one hour. Strain the liquor from the fish, and thicken 
it with flour rolled in butter ; stir it frequently while 
boiling, and when done, add the juice of a lemon, half 
a teaspoonful of sugar, pepper and salt to taste. 
Serve the fish with the sauce round it, or separately in 
a butter-boat. 

Herring. 

Scale and clean the herring. Put them on the 
gridiron, which must be already heated, and broil. 

Prepare a sauce made with butter, flour, mustard 
flour, a pinch of salt, and a little broth ; just warm 
on the fire, stirring so that it is smooth. Serve in a 
sauce-boat, and take care that the herring are not 
allowed to get cold before they go to table. 

Herring may be fried in breadcrumbs and eggs, or 
they may be boiled. 

Tartar sauce or mayonnaise sauce may take the 
place of mustard sauce. 

In Scotland it is not usual to serve sauce, but 
cold butter is handed round in its stead. 



ii8 WATER SOUCHE. 

Herring Balls. 

Partly broil three bloaters or red herrings ; remove 
the skin ; take all the meat from the bone ; add an 
equal quantity of mashed potato made from baked 
potatoes — that is, potatoes baked in their skins ; mix 
with cream or butter ; form into balls, egg and bread- 
crumb, and fry a golden brown. 

Pilchards. 

Pilchards are to be dressed like herring. There 
is so great a resemblance between the two fish that 
it may be useful to give the following test used by' 
fishermen to distinguish between herring and pilchard 
on a dark night, which is to hold up the fish by the 
middle fin of the back. If it be a herring it balances, 
if a pilchard it goes down by the head. 

Water Souche 

Small fish, tench, perch, flounders, or slips are 
generally used for this dish. Make a fish stock by 
boiling a portion of the fish in water with peppercorns, 
carrots cut in strips, and some parsley. Strain this, 
and then simmer in it the rest of the fish, with a few 
slender strips of carrot and turnip ; when nearly done 
add a few sprigs of parsley. The souche is to be 
served in a deep dish, as it partakes of the nature of 
soup. All the stock in which it is boiled is to be 
poured over it. There must be enough for each guest 
to have four tablespoons with the helping of fish. 



PL V. 




JOHN DORY. 



EELS. 1 1 9 

Slices of brown bread and butter are to be handed 
round. 

Stuffed Haddock. 

Take a good-sized fresh haddock. Make a stuffing 
of lemon-peel, thyme, parsley, a little butter, bread- 
crumbs, pepper, and salt. Stuff the haddock with 
this, and bake it for three-quarters of an hour ; w^hile 
baking pour over it some meat gravy. Do not put 
too much stuffing for the size of the fish. 



Eels. 

The eel is a very nutritious fish, and we have the 
high authority of the late Sir Henry Holland for 
saying that when properly cooked it is a very whole- 
some fish. 

Eels are always to be skinned, the head is to be 
cut off and throw^n away. The eel, or the pieces of 
eel, are to be washed, dried, and then steeped for a 
short time in water with a little vinegar. 



Fried Eel. 

Skin and clean the eel, cut into pieces of two or 
three inches in length. Let them disgorge in water, 
then dry thoroughly. Braise in Chablis and water 
with carrots, onions, a bay leaf, fine herbs and season- 
ing. 

When the eel is tender, take it out and let it 
drain. Strain the sauce in which it has cooked, and 
stir in some flour and butter, roll the pieces of eel in 



I20 EELS. 

this mixture, and let them get cold ; if the mixture is 
too thin, add an Q.gg before taking it from the fire. 

Fry the pieces of eel in breadcrumbs and &^g, and 
dish up on a napkin ; serve a tartar sauce, separately. 

Stewed Eel. 

Proceed as in fried eel, but when the eel has been 
stewed long enough, take the pieces cut, and keep 
them warm whilst the sauce is ' reduced.' A little 
wine must be added, and if the flavour of onions is 
liked, some small onions may be stewed with the eel. 

All the grease must be carefully removed from 
the sauce. 

Collared Eel. 

Stew the eel till it is tender enough to enable you 
to take out the backbone, roll it up, and bind with 
tape, finish stewing in the same liquid, put it between 
two dishes with a weight on them. When cold 
remove the tape, boil down the liquid to make aspic 
jelly for a garnish, and send up a tartar sauce in a 
tureen. 

Eel a la Poulette. 

Skin and clean the eel ; get rid of the head and 
tail ; cut into slices or joints of equal length and 
thickness ; wash them thoroughly, and remove any 
blood there may be at the joints of the spine. Put 
the eel and some button mushrooms into a stewpan 
in which some butter has been allowed to melt ; let 
it begin to fry, then dredge in a little flour (which has 



TROUT. 121 

been browned or dried) ; mix some broth and Chablis 
wine together, and stir in till it boils, then season with 
pepper and salt, fine herbs, and either small onions or 
Portugal onion cut small. Let the whole stew till 
the eel is tender ; skim off the floating grease, and 
take the stew off the fire for a short time. At the 
last moment introduce the yolk of two or three eggs 
and a squeeze of lemon. The eggs must give colour 
and flavour to the sauce ; they must not be allowed 
to boil and curdle in it. Serve with sippets of toast 
and slices of lemon as garnish. 

Fried Trout. 

Select small trout of nearly the same size. 

Clean, wash, and dry the fish ; roll lightly in 
flour, and fry in butter or clarified dripping, or 
lard. Let the fat be hot ; fry quickly to a delicate 
brown, and take up the instant they are done. Lay 
for an instant upon a hot folded napkin, to absorb 
whatever grease may cling to their speckled sides ; 
then range side by side in a heated dish, garnish, and 
send to table. L^se no seasoning except salt, and 
that only when the fish are fried in lard or unsalted 
dripping. 

Oatmeal or breadcrumbs are by many persons 
preferred to flour. Garnish with fried parsley and 
slices of lemon cut in halves or quarters. 

Trout {an Men). 

Take some freshly caught trout ; clean and wipe 
them ; put them into a saucepan, and pour over them 



122 TROUT. 

a pint of boiling vinegar, which immediately turns 
them blue. Add a pint of white wine (Chablis), and 
water till the fish is covered. Then put in four bay 
leaves, a good deal of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper- 
corns, an onion with four cloves stuck in, the peel of 
a lemon, half a head of celery, a carrot, a little bunch 
of parsley, and boil for a good quarter of an hour 
covered over. Arrange the trout on a dish, garnish 
with parsley, and serve with an appropriate sauce, or 
with oil and vinegar. 

Sea Trout. 

This fish should never be boiled. The proper 
mode of dressing it is to split it open, to season well 
with pepper and salt, and then to broil it. A little 
maitre d' hotel butter can be laid on it, or a tartar 
sauce may be served in a sauce tureen. 

All kinds of large trout are best cooked in this 
way 

Croquettes of Trout a la Russe. 

Take the fillets of two large trout which have been 
boiled ; cut them into squares ; season with chopped 
chibbals, chervil, and lemon-juice ; set the pieces of 
trout in Villeroi sauce ; make them into croquettes 
the size of an ^^^. Give them two coats of bread- 
crumbs and ^^% ; fry carefully to a golden brown, and 
dish up with fried parsley in the middle. 

Fish with its own Sauce. 

Boil one haddock in a quart of water for half an 
hour. Then add a pint of milk, and boil for a quarter 



SMELTS. 123 

of an hour. Take out the haddock and cut it in 
pieces. 

Mix two tablespoonsful of baked flour, and a little 
pepper and salt with the liquid, and put it on to boil for 
five minutes. Put in the pieces of fish, without any 
bone, and some chopped parsley before dishing up. 

The liquid is stronger if the bones of the fish are 
previously taken out, and stewed in it by themselves 
for some time. 



Fish Pudding. 

(Scandinavian Recipe.) 

The fish used is generally pike in Sweden, cod in 
Norway. It is cut in small pieces freed from bone, and 
chopped up very fine. A custard is made with eggs, 
milk, flour, and butter. The fish is stirred in ; the 
whole is seasoned with pepper and salt, and is steamed 
in a mould for two hours. 

Dutch sauce, lobster, or crayfish sauce is to be 
served with it. 



Smelts. 

As smelts are not opened, but cleaned through 
the gills, it is the more important that they should be 
perfectly fresh ; but if the head is cut off, the cleans- 
ing can be repeated. 

Dip in ^gg and breadcrumbs or oatmeal ; fiy, 
dry on paper before the fire ; place on a napkin, two 
and two at right angles, and send up lemon cut in 
sections to be handed round. 



124 LOBSTER. 



Stewed Smelts. 



Place in a china fire-proof dish ; pour over them a 
sauce made with fish or veal stock, chopped onions, 
capers and fine herbs, and a little Chablis wine ; let 
them cook in the oven till tender, and serve in the 
same dish. Always cut off the head for this mode of 
dressing smelts. 

Lobster Curry. 

Pick the meat from the shell of a lobster, and 
cut it into square pieces ; fry two onions of a pale 
brown in one ounce of butter, stir in one tablespoonful 
of curry powder and half a pint of medium stock, 
and simmer till it thickens, then put in the lobster ; 
stew the whole for about twenty minutes, stirring 
occasionally, and just before sending to table add the 
juice of half a lemon. Serve boiled rice with it, as 
for other curries. 

Lobster Cutlets. 

Select young and delicate lobsters, or use prawns ; 
or even very small crabs of two or three inches in 
diameter. 

Pick out the meat, and put the cream and the 
coral in a basin apart. Cut the meat up as small as 
possible, and then pound in a mortar till the stringy 
lobster is beaten into a smooth paste ; then incorporate 
the lobster-cream and the coral, season with pepper 
and salt, and add either thick cream or butter rubbed 
to a cream. Form into cutlets, and use the end of a 



SHRIMPS. 125 

claw to simulate the bone of the cutlet ; dip in bread- 
crumbs and eggs twice, and fry a golden brown. 
Heat a skewer red hot, and mark each cutlet so as to 
give it the look cf being broiled. Send up on a 
napkin, and serve a mayonnaise sauce in a tureen. 

If there is not enough of the lobster paste for the 
number of cutlets desired, introduce a little panada, 
or a little ground-rice mixture ; the lobster paste is 
rich enough to bear the introduction of the simple 
cereal mixture, but the two must be so completely 
mixed that the expedient is not perceived. 

Sauce for Lobster Cutlets. 

Make some stock with the bones of fish ; a wine- 
glass of this stock is to be seasoned with Maille 
vinegar, pepper, salt, and mustard flour. Mix in an 
equal quantity of single cream ; warm in a bain-marie, 
or milk saucepan. The taste of broth, vinegar, and 
mustard must be perceived, but not to an exaggerated 
degree. If the dish is not for a maigre day, veal 
broth may be used in place of fish stock. 

Shrimps. 

There is an art even in the apparently simple 
process of boiling shrimps. To be really good, 
shrimps must be boiled alive. The shrimps are 
placed in nets and plunged into water that is fiercely 
on the boil. The putting in of these shrimps lowers 
the temperature of the water for a moment. The 
experienced shrimp-boiler therefore heats the poker 



126 STURGEON. 

and stirs up the water in which the shrimps are placed, 
in order that the temperature of the water shall be 
kept up to the boiling point whilst the shrimps are 
being cooked. When the shrimps are done they are 
suspended in nets in the sea for a short time. — Frank 
Biickland. 

Breakfast Fish. 

Take 2 ozs. of butter, a teaspoonful of mustard 
flour, a little cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon ; work 
it into a smooth paste ; pull the cold fish into flakes, 
and half fill some shells (scallop shells) or little china 
imitations ; lay the mixture over the fish and strew 
with breadcrumbs; heat iii the oven or before the 
fire. ' 

Hake. 

This is an excellent fish, though its merits are 
not generally known ; it is best cut in fillets and 
fried in batter, after being treated like fillets of sole 
a la Orly. It is also good curried. 



Sturgeon. 

It is said that a good cook can obtain beef, mutton, 
pork, or chicken from the flesh of the sturgeon. 

The best way to dress this fish is to cut fillets 
about i^ inches thick, and to stew them in good stock, 
and serve with sauce piquante round them ; or to 
make the fish into quenelles, and serve with maitre 
dliotel sauce. It may also be dressed as for ' Creme 
de Volaille ' on niaigre days. 



OYSTERS. viy 

Lampreys. 

After the lampreys have been cleaned thoroughly 
in salt and water, rub them over gently with mixed 
white spices, and let them remain twenty-four hours. 
Then put them to stew quite gently with the moisture 
that has run from them : if not sufficient to cover 
them, add a little good stock ; when nearly done stir 
a glass of port wine into the stewpan. Small lainperns 
are stewed in the same way, after being cleaned in 
salt and boiling water. — F. Biickland. 

Oysters. 

Oysters should always be eaten the instant they 
are opened. They are served often before the soup, 
in the first course of a dinner, and are arranged 
usually in as many plates as there are guests at the 
table. 

In England oysters are served in their flat shells ; 
they are accompanied by brown bread and butter, 
pepper and vinegar or quarters of lemon. 

In France they are served in their deep shell, in 
their own liquor. 

Oyster Kromeskis. 

Parboil a dozen oysters in their own liquor, remove 
their beards, strain the liquor, and cut up the oysters 
into small dice ; melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, 
stir in a pinch of flour, add the oyster liquor and the 
minced oysters, salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch 
or two of chopped parsley ; take the saucepan off the 



128 OYSTERS. 

fire and stir in the yolk of one egg with the juice of 
half a lemon. When the mixture is quite cold, divide 
it into twelve portions, cut some slices of parboiled 
fat bacon as thin as possible to the size of i^ ins. by 
2\ ins. ; wrap each portion tightly in a piece of bacon. 
When they are all done, dip them in batter, and fry 
them in plenty of hot lard to a light brown colour. 
Drain well from fat in front of the fire, and serve 
with fried parsley. 

Oyster Loaves. 

Remove a slice from, the top of some small rolls 
the shape of a loaf, scoop out the crumb from the 
loaves, and fill them with some oysters just slightly 
stewed, with butter or cream, and a portion of bread- 
crumbs ; replace the tops of the loaves and bake till 
crisp. They may be glazed on the outside with 
beaten Qgg, if preferred. 

Oysters and Macaroni. 

Lay some stewed macaroni in a deep dish ; put 
upon it a thick layer of oysters, bearded, and seasoned 
with cayenne pepper and grated lemon rind ; add a 
small teacupful of cream ; strev/ breadcrumbs over the 
top and brown it in a pretty quick oven. Serve hot, 
with a piquante sauce. 

Stewed Oysters. 

A pint of oysters will be sufficient for a moderate- 
sized dish, but twice as many will be required for 



OYSTERS. 129 

a large one. Let them be very carefully opened, 
and not mangled in the slightest degree ; wash 
them free from, grit in their own strained liquor, lay 
them in a very clean stewpan ; strain the liquor a 
second time, pour it on them, and heat them slowly 
in it. When they arc just beginning to simmer, lift 
them out with a slice or a bored wooden spoon, and 
take off the beards ; add to the liquor a \ pint of 
good cream, a pinch of cayenne, and a little salt ; and 
when it boils, stir in from i to 2 ozs. of good butter, 
smoothly mixed with a large teaspoonful of flour ; 
continue to stir the sauce until these are perfectly 
blended with it ; then put in the oysters, and let 
them remain by the side of the fire until they are 
very hot. They require so little cooking that, if kept 
for four or five minutes nearly simmering, they will 
be ready for table, and they are quickly hardened by 
being allowed to boil, or by too much stewing. A 
little lemon-juice should be stirred quickly into the 
stew just as it is taken from the fire. Serve them 
with pale fried sippets. 



Oyster Toast. 

Beard and pound a few oysters in a mortar ; when 
they form a paste add a little cream, and season with 
pepper ; get ready some small pieces of toast ; spread 
the oyster paste on them, and place them for a few 
minutes in an oven to warm. A little finely chopped 
lemon-peel may be thrown upon the tops. 

K 



130 OYSTERS. 



Oyster Vol-au-vent. 

Make a puff paste with three-quarters of a pound 
of dry sifted flour, three-quarters of a pound of fresh 
butter, the yolk of an ^gg, the strained juice of a 
lemon ; beat the Qgg first alone, then with a gill of 
cold water, add the lemon-juice ; put the flour into a 
bowl, stir in the liquid, and make it into a soft paste, 
touching it as little as possible ; squeeze the butter 
in a cloth, slightly sprinkle the paste with flour, lay 
on the paste, make a hole in the centre, put in the 
butter, turn over the edges, and roll out four times ; 
let the paste stand in a cold place for an hour ; roll 
out two or three times, then roll it the last time 
i;^ inches thick ; press a vol-au-vent tin cutter quickly 
down, so as to take off the rough edges, and cut it in 
the size and shape required. Make a circular incision 
with a penknife, a quarter of an inch deep and half 
an inch from the edge ; place it on a baking-tin, and 
bake in a hot oven for three-quarters of an hour 
With a penknife take out the centre carefully, remove 
the soft paste, and fill the vacancy with oysters pre- 
pared as follows : — Beard three dozen oysters ; put 
the liquor into a saucepan with the beards, a grain of 
white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the thin rind of half 
a lemon, and the strained juice ; boil up ; knead 
3 ozs. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, 
and stir in ; boil till it is reduced to a quarter of a 
pint ; strain ; add the oysters ; simmer six minutes ; 
stir in a gill of very thick cream ; fill the vol-au vent 
and serve on a neatly folded napkin. 



OYSTERS. 131 

Oyster Sausages. 

Beard, rinse well in their strained liquor, and 
mince, but not finely, three dozen and a half of oysters, 
and mix them with 10 ozs. of fine breadcrumbs and 
10 ozs. of beef suet, chopped extremely small ; add a 
salt-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper, or less than 
half the quantity of cayenne, twice as much pounded 
mace, and the third of a small nutmeg, grated ; 
moisten the whole with two unbeaten eggs, or with 
the yolks only of three, and a dessert-spoonful of the 
whites. When these ingredients have been well 
worked together and are perfectly blended, set the 
mixture in a cool place for two or three hours before 
it is used ; make it into the form of small sausages or 
sausage cakes ; flour and fry them in butter of a fine 
light brown, or throw them into boiling water for 
three minutes, drain, and let them become cold ; dip 
them into ^gg and breadcrumbs, and broil them gently 
until they are lightly coloured. A small bit should 
be cooked and tasted before the whole is put aside, 
that the seasoning may be heightened if required. 
The sausages thus made are very good. 

Observe : the fingers should be well floured for 
making up these sausages. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Open the oysters carefully ; 'give them a scald in 
their own liquor ; wash them in it free from grit, and 
beard them neatly. Butter the scallop shells, and shake 
some fine breadcrumbs over them ; fill them with 



132 OYSTERS. 

alternate layers of oysters, crumbs of bread and fresh 
butter cut into small bits ; pour in the oyster liquor 
after it has been strained ; put a thick, smooth layer 
of breadcrumbs on the top ; moisten them with 
clarified butter ; place the shells in a Dutch oven 
before a clear fire, and turn them till the tops are 
brown all over and all round — a rich golden brown. 
Serve very hot. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil it 
with the beards, and lemon-peel. In the meantime 
throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. 
Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with 
them, and as much butter mixed with a little milk as 
will make sauce enough ; but first rub a little flour 
in the butter. Set them over the fire, and stir all the 
time, and when hot, take them off and keep the sauce- 
pan near the fire, but not on it, for if done too much 
the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, 
and serve. A little cream is a great improvement. 

Observe : the oysters will thin the sauce, so put 
butter and flour accordingly. 

Oyster Omelette. 

12 oysters, if large; 24 oysters, if small ; 

6 eggs ; 

4 tablespoonsful of butter ; 

I cup of milk ; 

Chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. 

Chop the oysters very fine ; beat the yolks and 



OYSTERS, 133 

whites of the eggs separately — the white until it 
stands in a heap. Put three tablespoonsful of butter 
in a frying-pan, and heat while you are mixing the 
omelette. Stir the milk into a deep dish with the yolk, 
and season. Next put in the chopped oysters, beating 
vigorously as you add them gradually. When they 
are thoroughly incorporated, pour in the spoonsful of 
melted butter ; finally, whip in the whites lightly, and 
with as few strokes as possible. If the butter is hot 
— and it ought to be, that the omelette may not stand 
uncooked — put the mixture into the pan. Do not 
stir it, but when it begins to stiffen or ' to set,' slip a 
broad-bladed, round-pointed dinner knife round the 
sides, and cautiously under the omelette, that the 
butter may reach every part. As soon as the centre 
is fairly ' set,' turn out into a hot dish. Lay the latter 
bottom upward over the frying-pan, which must be 
turned upside down dexterously. This brings the 
browned side of the omelette uppermost. This 
omelette is delicious and easily made. 

Oyster Patties. 

Line some small patty pans with fine puff paste, 
rolled thin, and, to preserve their form when baked, 
put a bit of bread into each ; lay on the covers, pinch 
and trim the edges, and send the patties to a brisk 
oven. Plump and beard from two to three dozen 
oysters ; mix very smoothly a teaspoonful of flour with 
an ounce of butter, put them into a clean saucepan, 
shake them round over a gentle fire and let them 
simmer for two or three minutes ; throw in a little 



134 OYSTERS. 

salt, pounded mace and cayenne ; then add, by slow 
degrees, two or three spoonsful of rich cream, give 
these a boil and pour in the strained liquor of the 
oysters ; next lay in the oysters and keep at the point 
of boiling for a couple of minutes. Raise the covers 
from the patties, take out the bread, fill them with 
oysters and their sauce and replace the covers. It 
is an improvement to stew the beards with a strip 
or two of lemon-peel in a little good veal stock for 
a quarter of an hour, then to strain and add it to the 
sauce. 

The oysters should be once or twice divided. 
The patties should be made small, with a thin crust, 
and well filled with the oysters and their sauce. The 
substitution of fried crumbs for the covers will vary 
them very agreeably. 

Oysters a la Villeroi. 

Blanch some large oysters ; warm them in a very 
thick Villeroi sauce ; take them out one by one, and 
be sure that they are well coated with this sauce ; 
dip them twice in breadcrumbs and ^gg, fry them ; 
dish them up in a pyramid on a napkin, and garnish 
with fried parsley. 

Curried Oysters. 

Open six dozen oysters, leaving them in their 
own liquor, then cut two medium-sized onions into 
small dice, and saittez in a stewpan with an ounce 
of butter ; when done, mix it in two teaspoonsful of 
curiy powder and one of curry paste, then add the 



OYSTERS. 135 

oysters, with their liquor, and keep stirring over the 
fire until the oysters become enveloped in a thick 
sauce, when turn them out upon your dish and serve 
with rice separately. 



Devilled Oysters. 

Open the oysters in their deep shell, season them 
with a small piece of butter, a little cayenne, salt, and 
lemon-juice ; place them on a gridiron over a brisk 
fire and broil them for about three minutes. Serve 
with bread and butter. 

Oyster Forcemeat. 

Open a dozen oysters, take off the beards, strain 
their liquor and rinse ; grate four ounces of the crumb 
of a stale loaf into fine light crumbs, mince the oysters, 
but not too small, and mix them with the bread ; 
add an ounce and a half of good butter cut into 
minute bits, the grated rind of half a small lemon, 
a small saltspoonful of pounded mace, some cayenne, 
a little salt, and a large teaspoonful of parsley ; mix 
these ingredients well and work them together with 
the unbeaten yolk of one egg and a little of the 
oyster liquor, the remainder of which can be added 
to the sauce which usually accompanies this force- 
meat. 

Oysters, i dozen ; breadcrumbs, 4 ounces ; butter, 
I J ounces ; rind of half a small lemon ; mace, half a 
saltspoonful ; some cayenne and salt ; minced parsley, 
one large teaspoonful ; yolk of i egg ; oyster liquor, i 



136 OYSTl^K^. 

dessert-spoonful ; rolled into balls and fried from seven 
to ten minutes, or poached from five to six minutes. 

Observe : in this forcemeat the flavour of the 
oysters should prevail entirely over that of all the 
other ingredients which are mixed with them. 



A Finer Oyster Forcemeat. 

Pound the preceding forcemeat to the smoothest 
paste, with the addition only of half an ounce of 
fresh butter, should it be sufficiently dry to allow of 
it. It is remarkably good when thus prepared, and 
may be poached or fried into balls for soups or made 
dishes, or used to stuff boned fowls, or the breasts of 
boiled turkeys, with equally good effect. 

Oyster Kabobs. 

Blanch the oysters in two waters, and then drain 
them. 

Put in a stewpan some chopped onions, mushrooms, 
and parsley, with butter and a little flour ; warm the 
oysters in this mixture, and stir in yolks of eggs to 
make the mixture firm enough to adhere to the 
oyster. String about 6 oysters on each silver skewer, 
the sauce adhering to the oysters and setting around 
them ; treat with breadcrumbs and eggs, so that the 
skewers look as if passed through a sausage, and fry 
a golden brown. Dish up on a napkin. 

Oysters au Parmesan. 

Butter a shallow dish, and strew with bread- 
crumbs which have been browned. Lay the oysters 



OYSTERS. 137 

on the breadcrumbs, strew some chopped parsley 
and grated Parmesan over them, and some more 
crumbs. Pour in half a glass of Chablis, and put 
them in the oven to brown. A little warm butter 
may be administered whilst in the oven. 

Fried Oysters. 

(American Recipe.) 

Use for frying the largest and best oysters you 
can find. Take them carefully from the liquor ; 
lay them in rows upon a clean cloth, and press 
another lightly upon them to absorb the moisture. 
Have ready several beaten eggs, and in another dish 
some rusks crushed fine. In the frying-pan heat 
enough butter to cover the oysters entirely. Dip 
each oyster first in the Ggg, then into the crushed 
rusks, rolling it over that it may become completely 
encrusted. Drop them carefully into the frying-pan, 
and fry quickly to a light brown. If the butter is hot 
enough, they will soon be ready to take out. Test it 
by putting in one oyster before you risk the rest. 
Do not let them lie in the pan an instant after they 
are done. Serve dry, and let the dish be warm. A 
chafing dish is best. 

Oysters en Papillotes. 

Make a paste with cold mashed potatoes, flour 
and butter. Roll it out and cut into lozenge-shaped 
pieces. Put three oysters on each bit of paste, roll it 
up, and bake a light brown in the oven. 

The roll must not be too large ; serve on a napkin 
very hot. 



138 FRENCH NAMES OF FISH. 

To assist the reader in giving correct names to the 
different kinds of fish, a series of coloured plates has 
been prepared ; but these illustrations give the shape 
and colour only : they cannot attempt to give the 
relative size of the fish in so small a space. The 
weig^hts of some fish and the sizes of others are there- 
fore given. 

Plate I. — Salmon, 7 lbs. to 50 lbs.; Common Trout, ^Ib. to 
5 lbs. ; Sea Trout, \ lb. to 5 lbs. ; Grayling, \ lb. to 3 lbs. ; Carp, 2 lbs. 
to 10 lbs. 

Plate II. — Turbot, lib. to 20 lbs. ; Brill, lib. to 10 lbs.; Plaice, 
^ lb to 5 lbs. 

Plate III.— Skate, 5 lbs. to 40 lbs. ; Sole, \\h. to 5 lbs. ; Flounder, 
2 ozs. to I lb. 

Plate IV.— Cod, 4 lbs. to 25 lbs.; Pollack, 3 lbs. to 18 lbs.; 
Haddock, \ lb. to 5 lbs. ; Whiting, \ lb. to 2 lbs. ; Smelt, 7 inches in 
length. 

Plate V. — Sprats, Herring, Whitebait ; John Dor}', i lb. to 
7 lbs. ; Gurnard, \ lb. to 6 lbs. 

Plate VI. — Sturgeon, 10 lbs. to4c\vt.; Red Mullet, |lb. to \\ 
lbs. ; Grey Mullet, i lb. to 5 lbs. ; Pilchards. 

Plate VII.— Perch, ^Ib. to 3 lbs.; Tench, ^ lb. to 5 lbs.; Pike, 
5 lbs. to 20 lbs.; Char, 9 to 18 inches long ; Shad, 2 lbs. to 7 lbs. 

Plate VIII. — Mackerel, \ lb. to 2 lbs. ; Sea Bream, \ lb. to 3 lbs. ; 
Eel, I lb. to 3lbs. ; Lampern, 12 to 15 inches long; Lamprey, 20 to 
28 inches long ; Conger Eel, 5 lbs. to 25 lbs. 



List of Fish most commonly used, with their 
French names. 

Brill = Barbue. 

Carp = Carpe. 

Char= Ombre Chevalier. 

Cod = Cabillaiid. 

Dab=Limande. 

Eel = Anguille. 



Fl 




EA BREAM 



MACKEREL 







mmm 




CONGER EEL 



FRENCH NAMES OF FISH. 139 

Flounder = Carrelet. 

Grayling = Ombre. 

Gurnard = Gournal or Grondin. 

Haddock = Merluche. 

Herring = Hareng. 

John Dory = Poisson de St. Pierre. 

Lampern = Lamproie de Riviere. 

Lamprey =Lamproie de Mer. 

Mackerel = Maquereau. 

Mullet (r^^^) = Rouget. 

Perch = Perche. 

Pike=Brochet. 

Plaice = Plie. 

Pollack = Merlan jaune. 

Pilchard = Pelamide. Sardine. 

Salmon = Saumon. 

Sardine = Sardine. 

Shad = Alose. 

Sea Bream = Breme. 

Sea Trout = Truite saumonee. 

Skate = Raie. 

Smelt = Eperlan. 

Sole = Sole. 

Sprat = Melet or Esprot. 

Sturgeon = Esturgeon. 

Tench = Tanche. 

Trout = Truite. 

Turbot = Turbot. 

Whiting = Merlan. 

Whitebait = Blanchaille. 



I40 



TABLE OF FISH. 
Table showing the Seasons when Sea Fish are 

Xotc — TVa sign x denotes the months during which the 



Name of Fish 


Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


.A.prll 


May 


June 


July 


Aug. 


Sept 


Oct. 




Bass .... 






... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Brill .... 






X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Bib .... 


X 


... 




... 


... 


... 


... 


X 


X 


X 




Bream, Sea . 




... 


... 


... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Cat-fish or Wolf-fish 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


... 


... 


... 


... 






Cod .... 


X 


X 


... 


... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Coal-fish 


X 


X 


X 


... 




... 


... 






X 




Conger .... 


... 




X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Dab .... 




X 


X 


X 


X 






... 








Dog-fish 


... 


... 


... 




... 


... 


... 


... 




... 




Dory or John Dory . 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Eel ... . 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Flounder 


... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Gar-pike or Gar-fish . 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


... 


... 


... 


... 


X 




Gurnard, Red, or 
























Elleck 


X 


X 










X 


X 


X 


X 




Gurnard or Tub-fish. 






... 




... 


... 








... 




Gurnard, Grey . 


X 


X 


X 


X 


... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Haddock 


X 


X 


... 


... 


... 


... 


X 


X . 


X 


X 




Hake .... 


X 


... 


... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Herring 


X 


X 


X 








X 


X 


X 


X 




Halibut 


X 


X 


X 


X 






X 


X 


X 


X 




Launce, Sand 


... 


... 


... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




LUxMP-FISH . 


X 


X 


^ 


X 


X 






X 


X 


'^ 




Ling .... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 






X 


X 


X 




Mackerel . 




... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 






Mullet, Grey 


X 


X 






... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 




Mullet, Red 








X 


X 






X 


X 


X 




Pilchard 


... 


... 


... 


... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




' Plaice .... 




... 


... 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


^ 


^ 





TABLE OF FISH. 



141 



BEST FIT FOR THE TABLE. By FrANK BuCKLAND, EsQ. 

fish are in season. — The seasons var>^ slightly according to locality. 

Observations 



Called white salmon or sea perch in Kent. Frequently seen in 

London markets. 
Next best fish to turbot ; has no bony spines in the skin like turbot. 
Best in November and December. Sometimes sold for whiting. 

Very bad keeping fish ; must be cooked at once. 
Several kinds ; called silver-eyes. 

Caught in North Sea ; seen occasionally in shops. Tastes 'like veal. 
Out of condition in spring months ; best about Christmas. 
A northern fish. 

Flesh good, but dry. Good as soup, baked, or in pies. 
Saltie, Scotland ; Limande, French ; best as water-souchy. 
Called Hoiisviss at Dover, Hoes in Scotland. Not bad salted ; 

sometimes called Folkestone beef. Much eaten in Lancashire. 
Excellent eating. Called also St. Peter's fish. Best in February 

and March. 
Not protected by the Freshwater Plsheries Act. Very nutritious in 

any form. 
Fluke or maycock of Edinburgh ; butt of Yarmouth. Good as 

water-souchy. 
Very good eating, not unlike eels. It has green bones, but is not 

unwholesome. Also called long-nose. jNIostly eaten by Jews. 

Caught off west coast of England and Ireland at almost all seasons. 
Pectoral fins splendidly coloured. Sometimes called the Latchet. 
In Scotland the Hardhead, Crooner, or Croonack. An excellent 

fish. 
Best in August, September, and winter months. Hook fish better 

than trawl fish. 
Good in steaks fried in batter ; also in pies. 
' Spring herrings ' lean, tasteless, and bad. Good herrings from 

west coast of Scotland February and March. From Loch Fyne 

best in November, December, January. 
Much prized by Jews. 

Not sufficiently utilised. Called sprats in Devonshire. 
Males considered best ; flesh soft and rich, but very oily ; con- 
sidered by some in Edinburgh second only to turbot if fried or 

baked. 
Largely exported to Spain, salted. Liver produces much oil. 
Fisheries principally on south coast of England, from Land's End to 

Dover. 
Large quantities on south-west coast. 
The 'Woodcock of the Sea.' Very much sought after. 
Very oily ; best marinated. Mostly exported to Roman Catholic 

countries. Londoners should try them. 
Best at end of May, but always in the market. 



Nov 


Dec. 


X 


< 


X 


X 


X 


X 


- 


^ 


V 


... 

X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 




X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


- 


X 


1 

X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


X 


1 X- 


X 



142 



TABLE OF FISH. 
Table showing the Seasons when Sea Fish are 



Name of Fish 



Skate .... 

Salmon .... 

Scad or Horse-Macke- 
rel .... 
Shad .... 
Smelt or Sparling 
Sole .... 
Sprat .... 

Sturgeon 

Trout (Sea) . 

TURBOT .... 

TORSK .... 
Weever or Sting-fish 

Whitebait . 
Whiting 



Wrasse . 



Cockles 

Crabs 

Crayfish 

Lobsters 

Mussels 
Oysters 



Prawns . 
Periwinkles 
Scollops 
Shrimps 



Whelks 



Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


April 


May 


June 


July 


Aug. 


Sept. 


Oct. 


X 

X 
X 
X 

X 
X 

X 

X 

X 

X 
X 


X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 

X 

X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 


X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 

X 
X 

X 
X 


X 
X 

X 
X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 

X 

X 
X 


... 

X 

... 

X 

X 
X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 
X 


X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 

X 

X 
X 
X 


X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 
X 


X 

... 

X 

X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 

X 
X 

X 

X 

X 
X 
X 


X 

X 
X 

X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 

X 

X 

X 


X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 



TABLE OF FISH. 

BEST FIT FOR THE TaBLE. — Contimicd. 



143 



Xo\ Dec. 



Observations 



Best in November, but a palatable fish at all times except May and 
August. 

Dutch fish in market from November to Februar}'. Rod fish can- 
not be sold during net close time. 

Sold mostly in Whitechapel. It has spines along the sides. 

Periodically in the market. Much esteemed by the Americans. 

Dutch fish from November to March. 

In season all the year round ; best when about half roed. 

Caught principally at Inverness and in Thames estuary. Good 

dried. 
Occasionally plentiful in warm months. 
Have various names in various localities. 
Best when half roed. From North Sea and Dutch coast and off 

Dover. 
A northern fish ; not many in London markets. 
Known in Whitechapel as Spitalfields weevers. Good if skinned 

and fi"ied. 
Mostly the fry of either sprats or herrings, according to locality. 
' The Chicken of the Sea. ' Best in December, January, and 

February ; but good in May and June. 
During the summer good stewed. 



Mostly eaten by poor of Midland counties. Excellent pickled or in 

patties. 
All crabs under 4j-inches across the broadest part of the shell, crabs 

in roe, and soft-shell crabs, are illegal. Best in the warm months. 
Mostly from Cornwall, Jersey, and Channel Islands. Much es- 
teemed in France. 
Any lobster measuring less than 8 inches from the tip of beak to 

end of tail is illegal. Ho77iard (French). Best in warm months. 
Sold largely for bait, also as food. 
Close time for deep-sea oysters, 15th June to 4th August. Close 

time for natives and seconds, 14th May to 4th August. No close 

time for American or Portuguese oysters. 
Becoming scarce and dear. 

In season all the year round. Finest from Holland and Scotland. 
Caught off south-west of England. 
There are two kinds : the 'Bunting,' brown colour, no beak, and 

the ' Red shrimp, ' with a saw beak. Obtainable nearly every 

month. 
Large numbers sold in the London streets ; used also extensively 

for bait for the long-line fishermen. 



144 BEEF. 



CHAPTER XV. 

BEEF. 

Sirloin of Beef. 

This joint is generally roasted as a whole, and a very- 
large whole it is. 

A better plan is to take out the fillet, and to use 
it as a separate dish. 

Yorkshire pudding and horseradish sauce are to 
be served with roast beef. 

Ribs of Beef. 

This joint can be roasted whole, or it can be boned 
and rolled before roasting, and the bones can be put 
in the stock-pot for the commoner kind of broth. Or 
the long end can be sawn off, put in salt for a few days, 
and either boiled or braised. The ends of bone to be 
slipped out, and the meat pressed till cold. 

Beef k la Flamande. 

Braise a piece of brisket of beef in the usual way. 
Add to the sauce just before serving carrots, turnips, 
onions, lettuces, sprouts or cabbage, mushrooms, and 
a few stuffed tomatoes, all of which have been care- 



BEEF. 



145 



fully prepared according to the directions for each 
vegetable. Time required for braising about five 
hours. 

The piece of beef is sent up in a large dish, its 
sauce is poured round, and the vegetables are placed 
in little separate heaps. The sprouts must look green, 
and each heap must be neatly arranged. It is not 
necessary to provide all the above vegetables ; four 
kinds will be enough. 

Beef k la Mode. 

Take a piece of the silver side, or the piece called 
fillet by the butcher, and put it in a braising pan with 
a calf's foot cut up, some rind of bacon, a fried onion, 
a fried carrot, some fine herbs, and a glass of wine, or 
half a glass of brandy mixed with water, a pinch of salt, 
and two pinches of sugar. Cover very close, and let it 
braise for from six to eight hours, shaking the pan 
from time to time so that the meat may not adhere to 
the bacon which is placed at the bottom of the pan, 
introducing a little hot stock from time to time. 

The piece of beef must be well beaten before 
braising, and square slips of bacon may be thrust into 
the meat. 

Brisket of Beef. 

Trim a good-sized brisket, which is all the better 
for being slightly salted for twenty-four hours. 

Put it in the braising pan with enough weak broth 
to cover. Let it simmer for at least five hours. Take 
it out, and place, in the oven whilst you reduce the 
sauce. Prepare a garnish of vegetables to be served 

L 



146 BEEF. 

separately. When the beef comes out of the dining- 
room, put it on a dish which will admit of another 
dish and heavy weights being placed on it ; and the 
pressed beef is even better cold than hot. The top 
must be glazed. 

The reason why vegetables must not be braised 
with the beef is, that the beef would soon turn sour. 

Collared Beef. 

Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow 
beef, but not too fat. Lay it in a dish with salt and 
a little saltpetre, turn and rub in every day for a 
week ; keep it in a cool place. Then remove all bone 
and gristle, and the skin of the inside part, and cover 
it with the following seasoning : cut small a hand- 
ful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, mar- 
joram, pepper, salt, and allspice (and, if liked, a little 
garlic). Roll the meat up as tight as possible, and 
bind it first with a cloth, and then with tape or pack- 
thread. Put the beef on in plenty of water, and let 
it boil gently seven or eight hours. When done, put 
a heavy weight on while it is hot, without undoing the 
cloth, &c. It will, when cold, be of an oval shape. 
It should then be glazed on the outside. 

Fillet of Beef. 

The fillet here spoken of is the under part of the 
sirloin ; not the piece sold as fillet by butchers. 

It can be dressed whole, or in slices as an entree ; 
but as in England it is not sold by itself, the sirloin 
must be purchased, and the fillet being taken out, the 



BEEF. 147 

upper part of the sirloin will be roasted by itself, after 
being neatly trimmed. The fillet can be roasted and 
sent up with its own gravy ; or with a garnish of 
macaroni stewed in gravy ; or with a garnish of 
stuffed tom.atoes ; or with fried potatoes, cut in various 
shapes ; or w^ith croquettes of potatoes or of hominy. 
If a dish with more flavour is desired, the fillet 
can be put in a pickle of oil, tomato, and onion juice 
for twenty-four hours, this pickle being poured over 
it several times, and the fillet allowed to stand in the 
preparation. 

Fillet as an Entree. 

The fillet must be divided into slices about half an 
inch thick when dressed. They must be neatly 
trimmed at the edges, and saute. They are to be 
dressed in a circle, and in the centre must be placed 
either olives which have been stoned and fried, or 
small pieces of potato fried ; the gravy from the fillets 
is the proper sauce round ; a little maitre d'hotel butter 
may be laid on each fillet. 

Braised Fillet of Beef. 

It is impossible sometimes to keep even this fillet 
till it is tender enough to roast. Then braising is the 
means to obtain a tender dish. 

Remove the fat from a fillet and trim it neatly ; 
line the stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, and 
half a dozen onions. Place the fillet on these, with 
more bacon on the top, put in a bunch of fine herbs, 
and enough broth to surround and keep moist the 



148 BEEF. 

whole. A little red wine or a tablespoonful of 
brandy may be mixed with the broth. Cover tight, 
and braise in an oven (or with hot coals on the lid of 
the stewpan) for four hours. The stewpan must be of 
a size only large enough to admit the fillet and the 
linings. Take out the fillet, ascertain if the sauce 
wants reducing, and if so simmer it awhile ; but if 
only a small quantity of broth is used, the sauce will 
be ready when the fillet is done. 



Tournedos of Beef. 

Cut a cooked fillet of beef into slices half an inch 
thick, and cut slices of bread the same size and thick- 
ness ; fry the bread in fat taken from the stock-pot, 
and warm the slices of beef (warm, not boil) in good 
gravy ; arrange in alternate slices ; fill the centre with 
a garnish of olives, or flageolets, and serve a sharp 
sauce in a tureen. 



Chateaubriand of Beef. 

This is made with slices of fillets of beef, but each 
two slices must be only slightly severed in the middle, 
making a sort of bivalve, into which are introduced a 
small lump of marrow, a sprinkle of salt and cayenne 
pepper, and a few shreds of onion. The beef sides are 
then pressed together ; a little butter or oil is rubbed 
on the outside, and the fillets are grilled from ten 
minutes to a quarter of an hour, care being taken 
not to let the marrow ooze out of the fillets. Serve 
very hot, with a squeeze of lemon in the gravy. 



BEEF. 



149 



Beef Steak Pudding. 

About 2 lbs. of tender rump steak must be freed 
from sinew, cut into pieces of moderate size, and a 
few bits of fat rolled in the thin pieces of beef; salt 
and pepper, and an onion chopped small are to be 
added. 

Make a paste with \ lb. of beef suet, i:^ lbs. of flour, 
a pinch of salt, and half a pint of milk (or water) ; 
the suet must be chopped very fine and freed from 
skin. The paste must be quite smooth and even. 

Line a basin with this paste, fill with the pieces of 
beef, pour in a small quantity of broth, cover with 
paste, close the edges, flour your pudding-cloth, tie 
over the basin, boil for four hours. Take off the 
pudding-cloth, pin a napkin neatly round the basin, 
and send up on a round dish. Veal may be used 
instead of beef, or half rabbit and half beef When 
oysters are in season, it is a great improvement to put 
in half a dozen. 

Rump Steak. 

Cut the steak thick, at least three-quarters of an 
inch in thickness. As tender meat is not ahvays to 
be had, if the piece you have purchased is doubtful, 
lay it on a clean cloth, take a blunt heavy carving 
knife if you have not a steak mallet, and hack closely 
from one end to the other ; then turn and repeat the " 
process upon the other side. The knife should be so 
blunt you cannot cut with it, and the strokes not the 
sixth part of an inch apart. Wipe, but do not wash, 



ISO 



BEEF. 



and lay on a buttered gridiron over a clear fire, turn- 
ing very often as it begins to drip. Do not season 
until it is done, which will be in about twelve minutes 
if the fire is good, and the cook attentive. Rub your 
hot dish with a split raw onion, lay in the steak, salt 
and pepper on both sides, and put a liberal lump of 
butter upon the top. Then put on a hot cover, and 
let it stand five minutes to draw the juices to the sur- 
face before it is eaten. A gridiron fitting under the 
grate is better than an}- other. If a gridiron is not at 
hand, rub a little butter upon the bottom of a hot, 
clean frying-pan, put in the meat, set over a bright 
fire, and turn frequently. This will not be equal to a 
steak cooked upon a gridiron, but it is infinitely pre- 
ferable to the same fried. 



Beefsteak Rolls. 

Cut a beefsteak quite thick, then split it open 
lengthwise, and cut in strips of four or five inches 
wide ; rub over the inside with an onion, and in each 
strip roll up a thin slice of bread, buttered on both 
sides ; stick two cloves in the bread, and sprinkle 
some salt, pepper, celery seed (or thin slices of celery- 
stick), and put into the gravy. Tie each roll with a 
thread ; dredge it with flour, and fry in hot butter. 
Then put these, when a delicate brown, into a stew- 
pan, with only enough broth to stew them. Make a 
nice thickened gravy from the liquor in which the 
steaks were stewed, and serve with the rolls, very hot. 
The rolls should stew very slowly two hours. Veal 
or mutton is also very good prepared in this way. 



BEEF. 151 

Stewed Rump Steak. 

A rump steak should be cut from a rump which 
has been hung, but must not be cut till wanted. It 
should be two inches thick, 4 lbs. for eight people ; 
and nmch of the fat is not to be kept on it. Let 
the steak brown, not burn, on both sides in boiling 
dripping or butter, either in the frying-pan or in a 
shallow stewing-pan. Mix some flour and broth, and fry 
some sliced onion, carrot, and turnip ; and let the steak 
stew for three to four hours, the broth not quite 
covering the steak. The stewing-pan must have a 
hollow cover, and hot water or charcoal must be put 
in this if cooked on a hot plate, but the stewing or 
braising -pan can be put in the oven. About half an 
hour before the steak is done, pour out some of the 
sauce and stir in two teaspoonsful of mustard flour 
and a tablespoonful of brandy ; and stir the whole in 
with the sauce round the steak. 

If there is too much sauce the steak will be boiled, 
if there is too little it will be dried up. As in all 
stewing, the state of the meat must be watched from 
time to time, and basting be had recourse to. 

Beef-Pie, with Potato Crust. 

Mince some underdone roast beef or cold corned 
beef, if it is not too salt ; season with pepper and 
salt, and spread a layer in the bottom of a pudding- 
dish. Over this put a layer of mashed potato, and 
stick bits of butter thickly over it ; then another of 
meat, and so on, until you are ready for the crust. 



152 BEEF. 

To a large cupful of mashed potato add two 
tablespoonsful of melted butter, a well-beaten ^%g, 
two cups of milk, and beat all together until very 
light. Then work in enough flour to enable you to 
roll out in a sheet — not too stiff— and when you have 
added to the meat and potato in the dish a gravy 
made of butter and milk, with what cold gravy or 
dripping remains from the * roast,' cover the pie with 
a thick, tender crust, cutting a slit in the middle. 

You can use the potato crust, which is very 
wholesome and good, for any kind of meat-pie. It 
looks well brushed over with beaten white of ^^g 
before it goes to table. 

Oxtail. 

Cut the oxtail in joints or sections, and trim away 
the fat from the rump sections ; the very small joints 
may be used to make the sauce ; they do not look 
well sent to table. Let the oxtail disgorge in cold 
water, then simmer it in the stock-pot, or by itself with 
broth and vegetables till it is tender. Take out those 
pieces which are to be sent to table, and keep warm ; 
reduce the sauce in which they have been simmered, 
or make a Robert sauce, and send up round the oxtail. 
A watery sauce would make the dish very insipid, 
a well-composed sauce a la Bearnaise makes it 
savoury. 

Ox Cheek. 

Wash the cheek in lukewarm water, dry and 
wipe. Put it in a large stewpan and cover with 



BEEF. 153 

tepid water, a little salt, and some peppercorns ; cover 
close. When it begins to simmer, remove the scum. 
After all has been cleared off, put on the lid and 
simmer for two hours. If the water has shrunk, re- 
place it by water of the same temperature. When 
the meat is quite tender, turn out the whole into a 
deep dish. Remove the bones and let it stand all 
night. 

Take off the fat, and mix it with as much flour as 
it will absorb. To this add three leeks, an onion, 
three or four carrots, two turnips, fry all together, 
and then place this, the meat and broth, in the 
stewpan again, and add water ; simmer till quite 
blended — two or three hours. A large cheek ought to 
make a gallon of soup, or stew. 



Beef Palates. 

The palates must be boiled in plain water till 
quite tender ; as this requires a long time, they must 
be prepared the day before. When quite tender the 
hard black skin must be removed, and the palates 
must be washed in cold water, and then be pressed 
between two plates with a moderate weight laid on 
them. 

If the palates are to be used as an entree, they 
must be cut into either circles or ovals, to admit of 
being neatly arranged. If they are for a curry, they 
must be cut into large dice ; if for croustades into 
small dice. 

The sauce must have a decided flavour, as Robert 
sauce, soubise sauce, tomato sauce, &c. The palates 



154 BEEF. 

should be warmed in the sauce, and arranged in a 
circle like cutlets, with sauce round. 

If the croustades are to be filled with palates, the 
small dice must be warmed in rich gravy, and the 
croustades neatly arranged on a napkin in the dish. 

If for curry the treatment given in recipes for 
curry is to be followed. 

Beef Palates a la Lyonnaise. 

The palates must be cleaned and boiled in a white 
sauce, and pressed. Cut them into neat shapes, either 
round or square, and warm them in a sauce made 
with brown sauce, slices of fried onion, and mustard 
flour. The palates are intended to be white, or rather 
cream colour, the sauce brown ; and the onions are to 
be in the centre of the circle of palates. 

Marrow Patties. 

Ingredients : Marrow, lemon, pepper, salt, thyme, 
parsley, chives, or shallot, one tablespoonful of cream. 

Take the marrow fresh from the bone ; cut it into 
pieces as large as a walnut ; put it into a stewpan 
with cold water and one teaspoonful of salt ; place 
over a fire, and after boiling for one minute, pass at 
once through a hair sieve. Line the patty-pans to 
be used with light paste. To make six patties take 
one tablespoonful of parsley, thyme, and chives ; chop 
fine ; add one quarter of the rind of a lemon grated, 
one tablespoonful of cream, a little lemon-juice, salt, 
and pepper ; beat well together. Place sufficient of 



BEEF. 155 

the marrow in each of the pans, and add a Httle of the 
savoury cream ; cover with paste, and bake in a mode- 
rate oven for fifteen minutes. 

Another Method. 

Prepare the marrow and savoury cream as before. 
Take a stale French roll and cut into three ; take out 
the crumb, leaving a layer at the bottom (which must 
be kept whole) to form a case for the marrow, &c. 
Put a little fat in the frying-pan, put on the fire, and, 
when hot enough, place in the rolls and fry a light 
brown. Remove them from the pan, and place on 
paper for the purpose of absorbing the grease ; sprinkle 
a little salt on the inside of each roll, and fill with 
the marrow and savoury cream. Pass the crumbs 
(taken from the inside of the re 11) through a wire 
sieve ; pile them, cone shape, on the top of the rolls, 
with small pieces of butter, and place in the oven to 
brown. 

Potted Beef. 

Take i lb. of lean beef, rub it over with saltpetre, 
taking care not to make it too salt ; let it stand two 
or three days, then put it in a pot, and cover it with 
water ; bake it in the oven when barley bread is 
baking, and when cold cut it into small bits and beat 
it till it is fine in a marble mortar, add six small 
anchovies and a little cayenne pepper ; melt half a 
pound of butter fresh from the churn, let it stand till 
almost cold, then pour it clear from the milk into the 
meat and mix well with a spoon. Put it into the pots 



156 TONGUE. 

that it is to be kept in, and cover with clarified salt 
butter. 

Pickle for Twenty Pounds of Beef. 

2\ lbs. common salt ; 
\ lb. bay salt ; 

1 lb. sugar ; 

2 ozs. saltpetre ; 

2 teaspoonsful pepper ; 

1 teaspoonful peppercorns ; 

2 gallons water. 

Mix well, boil for twenty minutes and skim. Let 
it get quite cold. Pour over your beef, and turn the 
meat, and baste it well every day for a fortnight. 

Pickle for Tongue. 

I lb. salt ; \ 

lib. coarse sugar ;[ Mix thoroughly 

\ oz. sal prunelle ; i 

\ oz. saltpetre. j 

Rub the tongue every day for three weeks with 
the above. 

Boil slowly for four hours. 

The most econofnical mode of using a tongue is to 
put it after boiling in a mould sold for the purpose, 
and to press it till cold ; then surround the sides with 
a band of paper, and cut the slices in the same 
manner as brawn. 



MUTTON. 157 



CHAPTER XVI. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Boned Leg of Mutton. 

To execute this dish, some practice in boning is 
required if the cook is the operator. The butcher 
will sometimes do the boning either of a piece of beef 
for roasting or of the leg of mutton, and send the 
bones separate to be used for soup. 

The under-side of the leg of mutton is the part 
where the incision is to be made. Begin at the 
knuckle end, which is to be kept in or replaced, and 
go o^n to the joint, cutting the bone out with as little 
meat as possible adhering to it. When this is done, 
cut off from the bones any flesh that may be on them, 
and use it with the stuffing. 

The forcemeat or stuffing, which is to fill up the 
place where the bone was, is to be made of ham or 
bacon, onion, parsley, mushrooms, and either veal or 
rabbit, partly chopped, partly pounded ; season with 
white pepper and salt. Do not put in too much 
stuffing. Sew up the skin with a needle and coarse 
linen thread, and give the leg a long straight shape 
like a bolster. Roast with a cradle spit, or bake ; 
baste frequently ; send up a sauce, either puree of 
Portugal onions, or tomatoes. 



158 MUTTON. 

Braised Leg of Mutton. 

Cut out as much of the large bone as can be done 
without disturbing the shape of the leg, and remove 
the knuckle bone. Fill up the space left by the re- 
moval of the large bone with a forcemeat well 
seasoned with onion, and tie firmly together. Line a 
stewpan with slices of bacon, onions, carrots, celery 
and fine herbs, put in a fresh pig's foot or calf's foot 
cut up, place the leg in the stewpan with two 
tumblers of broth or stock ; when it is near boiling, 
place hot coals on the hollow cover of the stewpan, 
and let it cook by slow degrees for six hours ; take 
out the leg of mutton, keep warm whilst you prepare 
the sauce by removing the fat and straining through 
a sieve. This is a delicious dish hot, and is good 
cold, but it will not bear warming up. 

Roast Mutton k la Venaison. 

(American Recipe.) 

A Christmas saddle of mutton is very fine pre- 
pared as follows : Wash it well, inside and out, with 
vinegar. Do not wipe it, but hang it up to dry in a 
cool cellar. When the vinegar has dried off, throw 
a clean cloth over it, to keep out the dust. On the 
next day but one, take down the meat and sponge it 
over again with vinegar ; then put it back in its 
place in the cellar. Repeat this process three times 
a week for a fortnight, keeping the meat hung in a 
cold place, and covered, except while you are washing 
it. When you are ready to cook it, wipe it with a 



MUTTON. 159 

dry cloth, but do not wash it. Roast, basting for 
the first hour with butter and water and afterwards 
with the gravy. A large saddle of mutton will 
require four hours to roast. When it is done, remove 
to a dish, and cover to keep it hot. Skim the gravy, 
and add half a teacupful of walnut, mushroom, or 
tomato catsup, a glass of Madeira wine, and a table- 
spoonful of browned flour. Boil up once, and send 
to table in a sauce-boat. Always have red-currant or 
some other jelly handed with roast mutton. If pro- 
perly cooked, a saddle of mutton, prepared in ac- 
cordance with these directions, will strongly resemble 
venison in taste. 



Neck of Mutton and Rice. 

Take off the scrag end and trim the neck very 
neatly ; remove the greater part of the fat. The 
scrag and trimmings go to the stock-pot ; the fat to 
the clarifying pot. 

Wash \ lb. of rice ; slice up two onions, and cut 
into squares of an inch each way \ lb. of streaky 
bacon. Put the mutton and these accessories into a 




COPPER STEWPAN. 



stewpan with enough water to prevent burning. 
Keep adding water, so that the rice may swell and 



i6o MUTTON. 

the meat may stew till the cookmg Is done — in about 
three hours. Place the mutton in the middle of the 
dish, and the rice and bits of bacon round it. 



Mutton Steak and Potato. 

Cut off from the thick end of a tender leg of 
mutton one or two steaks i^ inches thick, sawing off 
the bone and allowing it to remain in the steak. If 
there is any doubt as to its being tender, score the 
surface on each side, but take care not to let any of 
the gravy escape. Season with pepper and salt, and 
broil on the gridiron. Cut uncooked potatoes into 
fillets, almonds, or other shapes ; fry in butter, and 
garnish the steak with them. Serve very hot. 

It is far better to cut off a couple of steaks from 
a leg, and dress them as described, than to roast the 
leg whole and hash up what is not eaten when first 
served two or three days after. 



Mutton Cutlets. 

Cutlets are cut from the best end of the neck, 
which must be small, and hung long enough to be 
tender. The scrag should be taken off before the 
neck is hung, and made into broth or stew. 

A cutlet requires to be neatly cut and carefully 
trimmed ; each cutlet should have a bone, but not a 
long awkward bone. The skinny parts must be cut 
away, and the small bones at the end of the rib 
neatly removed ; these scraps will go into the stock- 
pot. 



MUTTON. 



i6i 



The cutlet must then be beaten with a cutlet bat 
or chopper dipped in cold water, always taking care 
to make or keep it a good shape — that is, four inches 
long, two broad at the middle, neatly rounded off at 
the thick end, and with the rib half an inch beyond 
the meat. 

In order to arrange cutlets neatly on a dish, they 
must be as nearly as possible of the same size and 
shape, and it is often necessary to use two necks of 





CUTLETS UNTRIMMED AND TRlMxMEU. 

mutton. If the scrags and trimmings are made a 
proper use of, the arrangement is not extravagant. A 
cutlet for each guest must of course be provided. If 
a neck of mutton cuts into ten cutlets, and there are 
twelve guests, secure a further part of the ' best end,' 
to enable the requisite number to be sent to table. 

Cutlets may be broiled ; 

Or sautes ; 

Or braised ; 

Or fried in a coating of breadcrumbs. 



i62 MUTTON, 

Cutlets broiled are a breakfast or luncheon dish. 
The fire for broiling must be clear, the gridiron is 
greased and placed on the fire till it is hot ; and the 
cutlet must be treated as a ' Mutton Chop.' 

For a dinner dish the cutlets, when to be smtte, 
are placed in the saiite-^^2.x\, in which butter is 
already melted ; they must be turned at the end of 
five minutes, and then allowed to sauteriox about five 
minutes longer. Dress on a circular dish in a crown ; 
fill the centre with a macedoine, or a puree of vegeta- 
bles, and pour sauce round ; or serve plain if preferred. 




MUTTON CUTLETS. 



Mutton cutlets for a dinner dish may be egged, 
and breadcrumbed and fried. 

After the first coating of breadcrumbs and ^%%^ 
just dip them in clarified butter (on a plate) and 
repeat the process of breadcrumbing with q%^ ; 
smooth with a knife. Fry a nice colour, and dress as 
described before — either with vegetables in the centre 
or plain. Serve sauce in a sauce tureen. The vege- 
tables for the centre of a dish of cutlets may be a 
macedoine ; or of one kind, as peas, French beans, 
cauliflower ; or a puree — turnips, spinach, potato, 
haricots, &c. 



MUTTON, 163 



Braised Mutton Cutlets. 

Cutlets for braising should be cut somewhat 
thicker than when they are saiite^ &c. The fleshy- 
part of the cutlet may have pieces of truffle and ham, 
or tongue, run right through with a large larding 
needle. These pieces are not to project as is the case 
when the larding is intended to show. 

The cutlets are to be braised in good stock, as 
described in the chapter on braising. They must be 
pressed between two plates ; trimmed again, then just 
warmed in the sauce, and dressed in a crown as 
described before. Surround them with soubise sauce, 
or with a browTi sauce, and put vegetables In the 
centre. 

Prince of Wales' Cutlets. 

A breast of mutton Is to have the superfluous fat 
trimmed aw^ay ; it Is to be simmered In the stock-pot 
till tender enough to allow the bones to be slipped 
out. 

Press It between two dishes with a weight on 
them. 

Cut Into squares or lozenges ; ^gg and bread- 
crumb, and either fry or broil. Dress on the entree 
dish as you would cutlets, and serve with a puree of 
turnips In the middle, and gravy in a sauceboat. 
The turnips must be boiled and passed through a 
tamis, and then the puree wrung In a cloth to drain 
out all the water before cream, pepper and salt are 
added. Serve very hot. 



1 64 



MUTTON, 



Mutton Cutlets Stewed. 

Cut a quantity of carrots, turnips, and potatoes, 
all to the size of olives. Trim some cutlets, and toss 
them in butter, with a sprinkling of pepper and salt, 
till they begin to colour ; put them in a stewpan with 
the carrots, about a pint of stock free from fat, a 
spoonful of French tomato sauce, and a bundle of 
sweet herbs, let them stew gently for fifteen minutes, 
then add the potatoes, and lastly the turnips ; let the 
whole stew gently till meat and vegetables are quite 
done ; add a piece of butter rolled in flour, a small 
piece of glaze, and more pepper and salt. Take out 
the bundle of sweet herbs, and serve the cutlets round 
the vegetables with as much of the gravy as is 
required. 

Haricot Mutton. 

Take cutlets from the neck or breast of mutton. 
Remove the fat parts, fry slightly on both sides. 




SHAPES OF CUT VEGETABLES, 



Make a ' roux ' with flour, and the fat in which the 
cutlets have been fried ; when it is a fine yellow-brown 



MUTTON, 165 

colour, dilute it with broth. Add pepper, salt, fine 
herbs, and leeks or onions, and set on to braise. Cut 
turnips and carrots to the shape of almonds, dice, or 
bits of macaroni, fry in butter, and put with the cut- 
lets. As carrots take much longer than turnips, they 
must be put in earlier. The turnips require half an 
hour. Dress the cutlets in a circle ; place the vege- 
tables in the centre, and the sauce round. 

Mutton Chops. 

A fine chop will take twelve minutes to cook ; a 
thin one ten minutes. 

Put the gridiron on the fire to let the bars get hot. 

Take the chop with a pair of tongs, or a spoon 
and a knife, and put it on the gridiron, which must 
be on very hot coals. 

Turn the chop six times, always using the tongs, 
because a fork lets out the gravy. 

Have ready a hot plate and a cover ; some salt 
and pepper if liked. 

Mutton Chops with Sauce 'Piquante. 

Take some chops from a loin of mutton, trim 
them neatly, and remove all fat ; lay them in a deep 
dish with slices of onion, a few cloves, whole pepper, 
salt and sweet herbs. Add oil and vinegar in equal 
parts just sufficient to cover them ; let them marinade 
for ten or twelve hours, turning them occasionally, 
then broil over a clear fire ; arrange them neatly on a 
dish. Fry one or two shallots, minced very finely, 
in butter ; when just beginning to take colour, pour 



i66 IRISH STEW. 

on to the chops, and serve with a sharp sauce in a 
sauce boat. 

Irish Stew. 

This is an excellent dish for luncheon, as it is 
none the worse for being kept warm after it is 
cooked. The economical plan is to use the short 
curved bones of a neck of mutton, the scrag being 
put into the stock-pot ; the ' best end ' used for cutlets 
or as a joint. 

Allow a bone for each person, and twice the 
weight of potatoes to that of mutton. 

Put a layer of sliced potato in a stewpan, then 
a layer of sliced onions and turnips, then the mutton 
(pepper the mutton), then a layer of onions and turnips, 
then another of potatoes. Let it stew on the hot plate, 
or in the oven ; after about half an hour pour in a small 
tea-cupful of hot water, little by little. Stew for two 
hours. Most Irish stews are spoiled by wateriness, 
the result of a quantity of water being poured in at 
first. 

Hashed Mutton and Beef. 

When there is enough cold meat to be cut into tidy 
slices, and a warm dish is desired, make a hash 
instead of a mince. 

Prepare a good sauce, with any cold gravy or 
sauce that may be available, and flavour it to taste. 
Catsup is disliked by many people. Harvey sauce 
gives a burning taste, and causes thirst afterwards. 

Good gravy, fried onions, chopped lemon-peel, 
and a squeeze of lemon-juice are the best assistants 



HAGGIS. 167 

to a good hash. The sauce must be quite finished, 
hot, and ready to receive the slices of meat, which 
must only be warmed, not boiled in it. All. hashes 
must be served very hot, in a deep dish ; must be 
garnished with toasted bread, and a flat piece of 
toasted bread should be laid in the centre of the dish, 
and the slices of hashed meat laid on it, so as to give 
a better look to the dish. 

Haggis, or ^ Hachis.' 

Parboil the heart, liver, and lights of a sheep (save 
the broth), mince them extremely fine, removing any 
hard or stringy parts. Mince \ lb. of suet, season 
with pepper, salt, and chopped onions, and mix 
in a pint oi oatmeal, which must be partly baked. 
Reduce the broth by boiling down, and use to make 
the mixture into a paste. Half fill the stomach or 
paunch, which has been thoroughly cleansed and 
boiled in salt and water previously. Sew it up 
neatly, and boil for three hours. An easier mode is 
not to use the paunch, but to boil the haggis in paste 
as an ordinary beef-steak pudding. 

Rissoles or patties may be made from the haggis. 

Sheep's Brains. 

Take three sets of brains, put them in cold water 
with a teaspoonful of vinegar, and let them disgorge 
for an hour. Drain the brains, coat with batter, or 
with breadcrumbs and ^g%, and fry. Prepare fried 
parsley as a garnish, and dish up on a napkin, arran- 
ging the brains in a pyramid. 



1 68 KIDNEYS. 

It is absolutely necessary that brains should be 
quite fresh, they spoil by even one day's keeping in 
summer. 

Brain Patties. 

Let the brains disgorge in water with a few drops 
of vinegar, drain and dry them ; divide into small 
pieces. Prepare a cream, or Bechamel sauce ; stir in 
the small pieces of brain. Fill with this mixture little 
china .souffle cases, and bake in the oven for about 
ten minutes. The surface should just look golden 
here and there. 

Breadcrumbs browned, or grated tongue, may be 
strewed on the surface. Arrange the souffle cases on 
a napkin. 

Kidneys Grilled. 

Cut open the kidneys in the middle, but do not 
separate them, run a small silver skewer through 




DNEYS. 



the two halves, season with pepper, salt, and salad 
oil, cook them on the gridiron, place them on slices 
of toast, and lay on each kidney a little bit of butter 
in which chopped parsley has been mixed. Add a 
squeeze of lemon. 



MUTTON. 169 

The kidney ought to be so arranged on the 
skewer that a Httle hollow is formed in the centre in 
which the bit of butter is placed. 



Kidneys Sautes. 

Slice the kidneys, cutting away the stringy bits. 
Take an equal weight of butter and kidney ; dredge 
with flour, and smitez ; add two tablespoonsful of hot 
stock, into which some chopped fine herbs and a tea- 
spoonful of Maille vinegar have been stirred. 



Turkish Kabobs. 

Cut into thin slices two large onions, and two 
large apples which have been pared and cored ; 
arranging to have eight pieces of each. Cut eight 
pieces of streaky bacon to the thickness of a penny, 
and as many of the lean part of a neck of mutton or 
loin of veal. The pieces must be about two inches 
in diameter. There will be thirty-two pieces. Lay 
them flat in a dish, sprinkle with curry powder, a 
little ground ginger and salt. Let 
them imbibe this seasoning for 
two hours, then string them on a 
\f\^S^^ skewer in the following order : 
meat, onion, bacon, apple, then 
meat, and so on. 

Wrap the skewers in buttered 
paper, and either bake in the 

TOASTING FRAME. ^^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^ -j^ fj-Q^t of thc fire. 

They will take quite an hour and a half to cook. 



DDq 



170 MUTTON. 

If the skewers are silver, send them up as they are. 
If ordinary skewers, sHp the kabobs off, and send 
them up in a border of rice, which must be ready 
prepared by the time the kabobs are done. The curry 
powder must not be too hot. A very deHcate curry 
sauce may be sent up with them in the same dish, or 
in a sauce tureen. 



Turkish Kabobs. No. 2. 

Cut the lean of a neck or loin of tender mutton 
into dice about one inch square ; have ready chopped 
onions and tomatoes (fresh or preserved), and rub the 
pieces of mutton. Let them stand in the mixture for 
two or three hours ; then place about four pieces of 
mutton on a short silver skewer (about six skewers 
make a dish) ; place them in front of the fire, and 
turn as the meat becomes brown, basting with the 
tomato juice and sprinkling wdth flour. Dish up by 
laying two skewers side by side, two across these, and 
the other two again across. Mix the tomato juice 
and the gravy which has run out (or a little clear 
gravy) and pour round the kabobs. If you have no 
silver skewers, the dish can be made with ordinary 
skewers ; but they must not project much beyond the 
kabobs. The bones and scraps of mutton left will 
make broth or Irish stew. 



LAMB. 17] 



Chillo.' 



Take the lean part of half a loin of mutton (not 
cooked) and chop fine. Chop very fine a small portion 
of the fat, taking care there is no skin ; add salt and 
black pepper, and mix thoroughly. 

Slice two large onions and one cucumber, from 
which the seeds must be carefully removed, two 
lettuces cut into shreds, \ pint young green peas, a 
bunch of thyme, \ lb. clarified butter, and a small tea- 
cup of weak broth. Let the meat and vegetables stew 
together for four hours. Place it in the middle of a 
dish and surround with rice, boiled as for curry. 



Epigramme of Lamb. 

Braise the breast of lamb till it is tender enough 
for the bones to be taken out, without however dis- 
turbing the meat ; save the bones. Press the meat 
between two dishes with a weight on the upper dish. 
Cut the meat into the shape of cutlets, and stick in 
a small end of bone. 

Meanwhile prepare lamb cutlets from the neck, in 
the usual way. Saiitez the neck-cutlets in butter, and 
after coating the breast-cutlets in breadcrumbs and 
egg) fry them, and arrange on an entree dish the two 
sorts of cutlets, alternately. Fill up the centre with 
asparagus points, or any other vegetable garnish. 
Serve a good plain brown sauce in a tureen. 



172 LAMB. 



Lamb Cutlets en Belle Vue. 

From two necks of lamb cut as many cutlets as 
there are well- shaped bones (the scrags will make 
Irish stew), and lard them with tongue or ham so 
that the bits of tongue are level with the cutlet. 
Braise the cutlets with the usual vegetables on a layer 
of bacon, in stock for about an hour and a half, 
covering close all the time. Let them absorb the 
stock till nearly cold, then press each cutlet between 
two plates ; trim neatly, then set them in aspic jelly 
in a large shallow dish, so that each cutlet has a thin 
coating of jelly both under and over. A cutter the 
shape of a cutlet must then be used to stamp each cutlet 
out of the surrounding aspic. The cutter is first dipped 
in hot water so as to. stamp more easily. Truffles may 
be used instead of tongue, or besides tongue. Dish 
in a circle ; fill the centre with mixed vegetables, 
(cold, of course) ; and surround either with broken 
jelly or a sauce, half mayonnaise, half cream. 



Lamb Cutlets a la Pompadour. 

Trim six cutlets, season them with pepper and 
salt, and sautez them in butter. Take them out of 
the pan and let them get cold. Make a stuffing with 
veal, pork, and bacon chopped very fine ; mix in some 
truffles and some fine herbs which have been par- 
boiled. Surround each cutlet with this stuffing ; place 
the whole in buttered paper,^ and warm in the oven. 

' See illustration on the opposite page. 



LAMB. 



173 



Lamb Cutlets au Parmesan. 

From the best end of two necks of lamb cut 
twelve cutlets and partly saiitez them. Prepare the 




PAPER FOR CUTLETS. 



following sauce : two tablespoonsful of white sauce, in 
which you have introduced six spoonsful of grated 
parmesan cheese. Steep the cutlets in this sauce, and 
then coat them twice over with breadcrumbs and ^g^, 
taking care that the surface is perfectly smooth and 
even ; fry them a golden brown, dish them up in a 
circle, and garnish with fried parsley. 



[74 VEAL. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

VEAL. 

Loin of Veal. 

This joint can either be roasted whole, and sent up 
with a piece of toasted bread under it, large enough 
to be cut into as many pieces as there are to be 
rations of the veal ; or it can be made to yield a 
number of different dishes instead of one roast. The 
kidney to be broiled for breakfast ; a portion of the 
best end to be made into grenadins ; another portion 
into ' cream of veal,' or into quenelles. The scraps 
cut off as these parts are taken away can be used for 
a curry, or can be put into a game or meat pie. In 
this way a number of entrees are obtained, of varied 
flavour and appearance ; and as curry is better for 
being made the day before it is eaten, and grenadins 
can be partly braised beforehand, the difficulty of 
keeping a loin of veal in muggy weather is success- 
fully dealt with. 

Fillet of Veal. 

(American Recipe.) 

Make ready a dressing of breadcrumbs, chopped 
thyme and parsley ; a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, 
rubbed together with some melted butter or beef suet ; 



VEAL. 175 

moisten with milk or hot water, and bind with a 
beaten egg. 

Take out the bone from the meat, and pin securely 
into a round with skewers ; then pass a stout twine 
several times about the fillet, or a band of muslin. 
Fill the cavity from which the bone was taken with 
the stuffing, and thrust between the folds of the meat, 
besides making incisions with a thin sharp knife to 
receive it. Once in a while slip in a strip of fat pork 
or ham. Baste at first with salt and water, afterwards 
with gravy. At the last, dredge with flour and baste 
with butter. Time required, from one and a half to 
two and a half hours. 

Fricandeau of Veal. 

A fricandeau, to be quite satisfactory, must be 
made from the tenderest part of the leg ; the veal 
must be white and delicate. An inferior form of 
fricandeau is made from the best end of the neck, 
taking the meat clean along from the bones, and 
trimming neatly. 

Whichever piece is used, it must be larded with 
fat bacon, the rows o( larding being straight and 
close, and the needle must carry each bit of bacon 
some way inside the veal. The fricandeau must not 
be too thick, or the flavour will not permeate the 
whole piece. Take an oval stewpan with a drainer 
and place on the drainer slices of onion, carrot and 
celery, and a bouquet of fine herbs ; next place thin 
slices of fat bacon, and then the piece of veal. Sur- 
round it with broth, into which is stirred a glass of 



176 VEAL. 

Chablis ; do not let the broth cover the veal ; protect 
the larded surface with buttered paper ; put the stew- 
pan on the hot plate (the lid should be concave and 
filled with hot coals), and let it braise on a slow fire or 
in an oven for four hours. Baste frequently, or the 
fricandeau will be dry, and will not be savoury. Care 
must be taken that the larding points of bacon are 
not crushed, or charred, or discoloured by salt, which 
turns the veal red. 

A fricandeau must be of a rich golden tint ; if on 
taking it out of the braising pan it is too pale, a few 
minutes in the oven will deepen the colour. The 
sauce must be allowed to reduce before sending it up 
with the fricandeau. A puree of sorrel can be laid 
round the dish, or sent up separate. Spinach or 
tomatoes may be used instead of sorrel. 



Veal Steak. 

(American Recipe.) 

This should be thinner than beefsteak, and be 
done throughout. Few persons are fond of raw veal. 
Broil upon a well-greased gridiron over a clear fire, 
and turn frequently while the steaks are cooking. 
Put into a saucepan four or five young onions minced 
fine, a large teaspoonful of tomato catsup, or twice the 
quantity of stewed tomato, a lump of butter the size 
of an Qgg, and a little thyme or parsley, with a small 
teacupful of broth. Let them stew together while 
the steaks are broiling, thickening before you turn 
the gravy out, with a spoonful of browned flour. Add, 
if you please, a half-glass of wine. Boil up once 



J^EAL. 177 

hard, and when the steaks are dished up, with a small 
bit of butter upon each, pour the mixture over and 
round them. 

Spinach or sorrel is as natural an accompaniment 
to veal as green peas to roast duck. 



Braised Veal Cutlets 

Trim and lard very closely. Garnish the bottom 
of a shallow stewpan, or a sante-pdiVi which has a cover, 



-^^^^-^ 




LARDED CUTLET. 



with a layer of bacon, slices of carrot, onion, celery 
and a bouquet of fine herbs. Place the cutlets on this 
bed, moisten with stock, cover with buttered paper, 
and set on the fire. When it has come to the boil, 
remove and put in the oven to braise for i -§■ hours. Keep 
on basting with the stock and liquor in the pan. When 
nearly done, take away all the stock, and use it for 
making the sauce for the cutlets ; according as it 
requires to be made thinner add more stock ; or 
thicker, boil down. A glass of Chablis and a squeeze 
of lemon must be added. Strain and reduce again if 
necessary. 

N 



178 VEAL. 



Veal Cutlets a la Drayton. 

Simmer half a dozen cutlets in stock and put them 
between two dishes with a weight on the top dish. 
When cold coat each cutlet with a thick brown sauce 
in which peliires de tniffes have been cooked. The 
coating must be on both sides, and to make the next 
coating adhere, it is necessary to flour and ^%^ the 
cutlets. This last coating must be of fine breadcrumbs 
and clarified butter. Sautez the cutlets a gold colour ; 
heat a skewer and mark a brown line across each cutlet, 
to give it the appearance of being grilled. Serve on a 
napkin, with a delicate white sauce in a tureen. 



Tendrons of Veal. 

These are prepared from the breast ; they are not 
bone, they are not meat, but a sort of gristle to which 
a little meat adheres. This gristly portion of the 
breast must be braised in good stock with the usual 
vegetables and fine herbs, for at least four hours. 
When white and tender the piece of gristle is to be 
pressed between two dishes till cold. The tendrons 
are made by cutting the gristle into round pieces the 
size of a crown, or rather larger. Each piece must be 
glazed ; they must be warmed in rich sauce, and 
dressed in a circle on the entree dish, a puree of 
spinach or sorrel in the centre, and sauce, nearly half 
glaze, round. 



VEAL. 179 

Veal Scallop. 

(American Recipe.) 

Chop some cold roast or stewed veal very fine, put 
a layer in the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish, and 
season with pepper and salt. Next have a layer of 
finely-powdered rusks. Strew some bits of butter 
upon it and wet with a little milk ; then more veal 
seasoned as before, and another round of rusk crumbs, 
with butter and milk. When the dish is full, wet 
well with gravy or broth. Spread over all a thick 
layer of crumbs seasoned with salt, made into a paste 
with milk bound with a beaten Qgg or two. Stick 
butter-bits thickly over it ; invert a tin pan so as to 
cover all and keep in the steam, and bake — if small, 
half an hour ; three quarters will suffice for a large 
dish. Remove the cover ten minutes before it is 
served, and brown. 

Calf's Head. 

If a satisfactory dish is to be made, the head 
must have the skin on. 

Take out the tongue and the brains, and put 
them in water with a little vinegar to disgorge ; 
remove the eyes. Place the head in cold water to 
cleanse thoroughly, and then boil it only long enough 
to enable the bones to be taken out. If the head is 
to be sent up in two halves, divide it neatly, complete 
the cooking in a white sauce, as described for fricassee 
of chicken. Make cakes or little balls with the brains 
for garnish, and use the tongue — which must be boiled 
by itself — for garnish also. 



i8o VEAL. 

If the dish is intended for an entree, proceed as 
before till the head is tender, then take it out ot the 
water, drain and wipe dry, cut into round pieces 2^ 
inches in diameter, or squares about the same size. 
Press these between two plates. 

Meanwhile prepare a rich sauce. 

Warm the pieces of calf's head in a little good 
stock, dress them in a circle, surround them with the 
sauce, and fill the centre with button mushrooms, egg- 
balls, brain-balls, or truffles. 

All sauces for calf's head must have a little white 
wine, such as Chablis, and a squeeze of lemon, as the 
meat itself is rather tasteless. 

Calf's Head a la Ste.-Menehould. 

If the pieces of calf's head are not of the shape 
to make a neat entree as in the previous recipe, 
this mode of dressing is suitable. 

Make a sauce with butter, flour, salt and pepper, 
and season with lemon-juice ; let it get cold enough to 
set, dip each piece of meat in it, then coat with bread- 
crumbs, dip in butter and brown, or rather gild ; give 
a second coating of breadcrumbs and butter, and 
finish in the oven, or before the fire. Serve on a 
napkin and garnish with fried parsley. 

Croquettes of Calf's Brains. 

(American Recipe.) 

Wash the brains very thoroughly until they are 
free from membranous matter and perfectly white. 
Beat them smooth ; season with a pinch of powdered 



VEAL. l8i 

sage, pepper- and salt. Add two tablespoonsful of 
fine breadcrumbs moistened with milk, and a beaten 
egg. Roll into balls with floured hands, dip in beaten 
Qgg, then rusk-crumbs, and fry in butter or veal- 
drippings. 

These make a pleasant accompaniment to boiled 
spinach. Heap the vegetable in the centre of the 
dish, arrange the balls about it, and give one to each 
person who wishes for spinach. 

Liver and Bacon. 

Secure a calfs liver, and do not let it hang, as it 
soon becomes dry and leathery. Cut into pieces the 
thickness and shape, as near as may be, of a cutlet. 
Fry some bacon, and with it the liver, sprinkling with 
pepper, parsley and fine herbs. Arrange the liver and 
bacon in alternate order, on the dish before the fire ; 
throw a few chopped shallots, and a sprinkling of flour 
into the frying pan, with a squeeze of lemon ; let it 
warm, and pour into the centre of the dish with a 
gravy pourer. 

The liver must not be over-fried, or its flavour is 
destroyed. 

'Pain' or Cake of Calf's Liver. 

Take the best parts of the liver — which must not 
have been ' kept ' — and weigh an equal quantity of the 
fat of bacon (this should have been boiled) ; pound it 
in a mortar with pepper, salt and parsley. 

Cut into dice a couple of onions and fry. Cut 
into similar dice some ham, or the lean of the bacon, 



1 82 VEAL, 

and mix with the pounded material. Mix in the 
yolks and whites (beaten separately) of three eggs and 




PAIN ' OF calf's liver. 



work them in thoroughly. Fill a plain mould, and 
steam, as is done for creme de volaille. Turn out, 
surround with thin brown sauce in which fine herbs 
can be seen as well as tasted, or garnish with button 
mushrooms. 

This is a refined form of liver and bacon. 

Cream of Veal. 

Take the tenderest part of a fillet of veal, un- 
cooked. Pound in a mortar, add an equal weight of 
bread steeped in boiling milk. Mix thoroughly ; stir 
in the yolk of one and the white of two eggs, enough 
cream to make it the proper thickness ; season with 
pepper and salt. Put it in a plain mould, or in a 
number of little moulds which may be decorated with 
thin slices of truffles, or ham, or tongue. 

Steam for about one hour ; if allowed to boil, or 
to remain too long on the fire the dish will be spoiled 
by becoming tough and leathery ; it should melt in 
the mouth. Turn out and surround with a sauce a la 
Perigueux. 



QUENELLES. 183 



Quenelles. 

The principle is the same whether the quenelles 
be made of uncooked fish, flesh, poultry, or game. 

The meat is pounded in a marble mortar, and 
half its weight of the fat part of a ham or of boiled 
bacon is worked in ; and after passing through a sieve, 
cream is added to soften the mixture, with pepper and 
salt in very moderate quantities. 

Instead of the fat of bacon, beef suet ma}- be 
used, and a small quantity of milk. Both these 
modes will produce very fair quenelle meat, but the 
most dainty quenelle meat is made by using cream, 
or the larger proportion of cream, instead of bacon 
and suet. 

Test the quenelle meat by poaching a very small 
portion in hot water for a i^w minutes. Open the 
sample, and thus ascertain if it is smooth, light, yet 
firm. 

The quenelle meat is either placed in small dariole 
moulds and steamed in a bain-marie, or it is moulded 
with two tablespoons into the shape of a flattened ^gg ; 
it is poached in broth or stock of a pale colour for 
about ten minutes in the smite pan. The quenelles 
are then arranged on the entree dish and surrounded 
with rich brown sauce, or a puree of mushrooms. As 
quenelles contain either cream, or substitutes for 
cream, it is false taste to add a cream sauce. 

A variety of quenelle is made by giving to each 
quenelle a core of dark meat made by chopping up 
ham or tongue, mushrooms, or truffles. 



i84 QUENELLES. 



Quenelles. No. 2. 

One pound of lean veal cut from the leg. Scrape 
it with a knife ; pound it, and rub it through a wire 
sieve on to a plate. Steep i lb. of bread in tepid 
water, and wring it in a cloth to get out the moisture. 
Put it in a stevvpan with i oz. of butter and a little 
salt. Stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until 
it ceases to stick to the pan and forms a smooth paste. 
Place it between two plates to cool. 

Put in a mortar 12 ozs. of the prepared veal, 
6 ozs. of fresh butter, and 8 ozs. of the bread panada. 
Pound these well together ; mix in gradually three 
whole eggs and two tablespoonsful of good white 
sauce and the yolks of two more eggs. Season with 
pepper and salt ; and when the forcemeat has been 
well mixed by pounding it into a smooth compact 
body, take it out of the mortar, put it into a basin, 
and keep in the cool until required for use. 




QUENELLES. 

Form the quenelles with two tablespoons, poach 
them in the ordinary way, dish them in a circle, and 
garnish the centre with any vegetable, or mushrooms, 
&c. 

Very small quenelles about the size of an almond 
are used in clear soups, taking the place of vegetables. 



SWEETBREADS. 185 

custard-mixture, &c. The allowance is two or three 
to each soup plate. 



Sweetbreads. 

A sweetbread is so tender if simply dressed that 
the attempt to improve it by braising only destroys 
its flavour. 

It should be parboiled as soon as it comes from 
the butcher, as it is liable to turn sour. 

Sweetbreads are a dainty and not very expensive 
dish in the country. They are so dear in towns as to 
be only used where cost is no object. 

The sweetbread is to be cut into pieces about 
three-quarters of an inch thick, egged, and bread- 
crumbed, and fried a golden brown. Crisp fried 
parsley must be ready. The pieces of sweetbread 
are dressed in a circle on a napkin, and the parsley is 
placed in the centre. Slices of lemon may be handed 
round or used as a garnish. 

If it is necessary to make a small quantity of 
sweetbread into a large number of rations, the best 
mode is to use them as filling for croustades. The 
croustade paste is placed in tins — oval, round, or 
lozenge-shaped, as best suits the dish on which they 
are to be arranged. 

The sweetbread is cut in dice, warmed in white 
sauce with button miushrooms, or truffles cut in dice, 
and the croustades are filled neatly and placed on a 
napkin on the entree dish. 

Lamb's fry is treated exactly like sweetbread — 
parboiled, fried, &c. 



1 86 VEAL. 



Galantine of Breast of Veal. 

Bone the breast and spread it out as flat as possible 
on the board, pare off the meat at the ends so that 
the skin may project beyond ; take all the scraps of 
meat and chop small, add an equal weight of the fat 
of bacon — dice of tongue, truffles, pistachio nuts or, 
if liked, olives, pepper and salt. The large dice 
must be at equal intervals in this stuffing ; the breast 
is rolled round a mass of the stuffing and sewn toge- 
ther ; it is fastened up in a cloth, and bands of tape 
passed round so as to keep the whole in shape. The 
galantine is then to be braised for six hours in weak 
stock, which can be made with the bones of the breast 
and a calf s foot. Let the galantine be cold before it 
is untied. Glaze before sending up. 



Jellied Veal. 

(American Recipe ) 

Wash a knuckle of veal and cut it into three 
pieces. Boil it slowly in ver>^ little water until the 
meat will slip easily from the bones ; take it out ot 
the liquor, remove all the bones, and chop the meat 
fine. Season with salt, pepper, two shallots chopped 
as fine as possible, thyme or sage. Put back into the 
liquor, and boil until it is almost dry, and can be 
stirred with difficult}'. Turn into a mould until next 
day. Set on the table cold, garnish with parsley, 
and cut in slices. The juice of a lemon, stirred in 
j-ust before it is taken from the fire, is an improvement. 



VEAL. 187 

Veal Marble. 

(American Recipe.) 

Boil an ox tongue the day before it is to be used, 
and a like number of pounds of lean veal, or the 
lean of a well-cooked fillet will do as well. Grind 
first one and then the other in a sausage-cutter, keeping 
them in separate vessels until you are ready to pack. 
If you have no machine for this purpose, chop exceed- 
ingly fine. Season the tongue with pepper, powdered 
sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little 
nutmeg, and cloves — ^Just a pinch of each ; the veal in 
like manner, with the addition of salt. Pack in alter- 
nate spoonsful, as irregularly as possible, in cups, bowls, 
or jars which have been well buttered. Press very 
hard as you go on, smooth the top, and cover with 
clarified butter. V/hen this cools, close up the jars, 
and keep in a cool dry place. Turn out whole, or 
serve in slices. It is a pretty and savoury relish, gar- 
nished with parsley or the blanched tops of celery. 
You can use ground ham instead of tongue. It is 
hardly so good, but is more economical. 

Imitation Pate de Foie Gras. 

(American Recipe. ) 

Boil a calf's liver until very tender in water that 
has been slightly salted, and in another vessel a nice 
calfs tongue. Do this the day before you make 
your pate, as they should be not only cold, but firm, 
when used. Cut the liver into bits, and rub these 
gradually to a smooth paste in a mortar, moistening, 



1 88 VEAL. 

as you go on, with melted butter. Work into this 
paste, which should be quite soft, a quarter-teaspoonful 
of cayenne pepper, or twice the quantity of white or 
black pepper, half a grated nutmeg, a few cloves, 
a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, salt to taste, a 
full teaspoonful of mustard, and a tablespoonful of 
boiling water, in which a minced onion has been 
steeped until the flavour is extracted. Work all toge- 
ther thoroughly, and pack in jelly jars with air-tight 
covers, or if you have them, in pate jars. Butter the 
inside of the jars well, and pack the pate very hard, 
inserting here and there square and triangular bits of 
the tongue, which should be pa.red and cut up for this 
purpose. These simulate the truffles imbedded in 
the genuine pates from Strasburg. When the jar is 
packed, and smooth as marble on the surface, cover 
with melted butter. Let this harden, put on the lid, 
and set in a cool place. In winter it will keep for 
weeks, and comes in well for luncheon or tea. 

The resemblance in taste to the real pate de foie 
gras is remarkable, and the domestic article is popular 
with the lovers of that delicacy. Pigs' livers make a 
very fair pate. If you can procure the livers of several 
fowls, and treat as above, substituting bits of the in- 
side of the gizzard for truffles, you will find the result 
even more satisfactory. 



VEAL. 189 

Calfs Head in a Mould. 

(American Recipe.) 

Boil a calf's head until tender, the day before you 
wish to use it. When perfectly cold, chop — not too 
small — and season to taste with pepper, salt, mace, 
and the juice of a lemon. Prepare half as much cold 
ham, fat and lean, also minced, as you have oi the 
chopped calfs head. Butter a mould well, and lay in 
the bottom a layer of the calfs head, then one of ham, 
and so on until the shape is full, pressing each layer 
hard, when you have moistened it with veal gravy or 
the liquor in which the head was boiled. Pour more 
gravy over the top, and when it has soaked in well, 
cover with a paste made of flour and water. Bake one 
hour. 

Remove the paste when it is quite cold, and turn 
out carefully. Cut perpendicularly. 

This is quite as good a relish when made of cold 
roast or stewed veal and ham. It will keep several 
days in cool weather. 



190 PORK, 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

PORK. 

Roast Spare Rib. 

When first put down to the fire, cover with a greased 
paper until it is half done. Remove it then, and' 
dredge with flour. A few minutes later, baste once 
with butter, and afterwards at short intervals, with its 
own gravy. This is necessary, the spare rib being a 
very dry piece. Just before you take it up strew 
over the surface thickly with fine breadcrumbs sea- 
soned with powdered sage, pepper, and salt, and a 
small onion minced into almost invisible bits. Let 
it cook five minutes, and baste once more with butter. 
Skim the gravy, add half a cupful of hot water, 
thicken with bro>vn flour, squeeze in the juice of a 
lemon, strain, and pour over the meat in the dish. 

Hand round apple or tomato sauce with it, or if 
you prefer, put a spoonful in the gravy, after it is 
strained. Time, two hours to two and a half hours. 

Pork Cutlets. 

It is essential that the cutlets should be taken 
from a tender neck of pork, with very small bones. 
The cutlets must be cut and trimmed in the same 



PORK. 191 

way as mutton and lamb cutlets,' and they must be 
smite for twenty minutes. 

The colour is to be a golden brown, and each 
cutlet is to be carefully turned with a pair of cutlet- 
tongs, so that both sides are coloured, and that the 
cutlet keeps its shape — that is, does not curl up, as 
would happen if allowed to remain till one side was 
quite coloured. Serve with a Robert sauce, or a 
tomato sauce. 

Pork Cutlets. No. 2. 

Select young tender pork with small bones. Cut 
the cutlets thin, but with a bone in each if possible. 
Trim them to a neat shape (use any scraps left for a 
pie). Steep them for three days in a bath of salad 
oil, sliced onion, pepper, bay-leaf and parsley. Take 
care to turn the cutlets, and cover them with the 
mixture several times a day. Let the cutlets drain, 
then either fry or broil them thoroughly ; and serve 
neatly arranged in a circle, with Robert sauce round. 

Pigs' Feet k la Ste.-M^nehould 

Put four pigs' feet in pickle for a day and a half, 
drain and wipe them dry ; braise till they are tender 
enough for the bones to be slipped out, but do not 
break the skin, bind up with tape and finish braising, 
put them under a weight to press and cool. Egg and 
breadcrumb, and either grill or fry. Serve on a nap- 
kin with crisp parsley, and hand round Robert sauce 
or tartar sauce if desired. 

Another way is to extract all the bones and re- 

' See illustration on p. i6i. 



192 HAM. 

place them by a quenelle meat with chopped truffles 
in it. The feet can be fried in batter instead of in 
egg and breadcrumbs. 

Pigs' feet require long and slow braising, and as 
they require the previous pickling, they must be 
secured at least three days beforehand. They do not 
require ' keeping.' 

Calves' feet may be dressed in the same way. 



Broiled Ham. 

Cut in slices. Wash well and soak in scalding 
water in a covered vessel for half an hour. Pour off 
the water and add more boiling water. Wipe dry 
when the ham has stood half an hour in the second 
water, and lay in cold water for five minutes. Wipe 
again, and broil over or under a clear fire. 

Cold boiled ham, that is not too much done, is better 
for broiling than raw ; it does not require soaking. 

Pepper before serving. 

Steamed Ham. 

This is by far the best way of cooking a ham. Lay 
in cold water for twelve hours ; wash very thoroughly, 
rubbing with a stiff brush to dislodge the salt and 
smoke on the outside. Put into a steamer, cover 
closely, and set it over a pot of boiling water. Allow 
at least twenty minutes to a pound. Keep the water 
at a hard boil. 

Spinach or some other green vegetable should be 
handed with it. 



HAM. 193 

To Boil a Ham. 

Place a la}'er of sweet hay at the bottom of the 
saucepan, and the ham on that ; mix beer and water 
— one-third beer and two-thirds water ; simmer the 
ham in this mixture for six hours. If the ham is 
dry or hard, put some dripping in the saucepan when 
it has been on for three hours. 

To Cure a Ham about 18 lbs. Weight. 

Take i lb. common salt ; \ lb. bay salt pounded 
fine ; i lb. coarse sugar ; 2 ozs. saltpetre pounded fine ; 
2 ozs. ground pepper. Mix these well together, and 
then rub them by degrees into the ham for an hour, 
or until the whole of the ingredients are quite dis- 
solved ; the ham is to be turned and rubbed every 
day for a month in its own liquor. Then drain it 
well, rub over with bran, and let it dry thoroughly, 
smoke over a wood fire, but at such a distance that 
the process is very gradual. Some people put only 
half the quantity of saltpetre and less sugar. 

To Pickle Hams. 

Begin by rubbing the leg of pork all over with 
treacle ; i lb. will be required. Take care to rub the 
treacle well round the knuckle, and at the thigh bone 
end, so that it penetrates under the skin and round 
the bones. 

Put in a pan and pour over a quart of vinegar. 
Baste it for three days, then mix i lb. bay salt with 
\\ lbs. saltpetre, pound and rub in. Cover with 2 lbs. 
common salt, and let it remain for three days. 

O 



194 PORK, 

Then stir up all this pickle, and keep rubbing it 
in once a day for a month. Drain the ham, rub over 
with bran, and dry thoroughly before smoking. 

The pickle can be used for other meat, but the 
meat must be salted for twenty-four hours, and then 
drained dry before the pickle is used for it. After 
two months' use it must be boiled, and can then be 
used for pickling beef. 



Pickle for Pork. 

Ascertain how much liquid the tubs or leads in 
which the pork is to steep will hold. Put that quan- 
tity of water in a boiler, and when it boils mix in 
the salt by degrees. The way to ascertain whether 
enough salt is in the water is to boil an ^gg in it, 
and when the ^gg floats, the proper proportion of 
salt is attained. Pour the brine into an earthenware 
vessel, and let it cool, then pour into the salting ves- 
sels. The pork must be cut into suitable pieces, must 
be completely covered by the brine ; the thin pieces 
of pork require some stones placed on them. The 
salting pans must be kept closely covered, and when 
a piece of pork is taken out for use, care must be 
taken not to interfere with the other pieces. No 
copper vessel or brass weight must come near pickle. 
The tubs or leads must be faultlessly sweet and clean, 
and be perfectly dry when the pickle is first put in. 

When all the pork has been used, the brine is to 
be boiled and skimmed. It requires nearly a fort- 
night to fit the pork for boiling. It increases in size 
during the process of boiling. 



SUCKING PIG. 195 

A wooden spoon is to be used in making and 
moving the brine. 



Sucking Pig. 

A sucking pig at the beginning of autumn is not 
a bad dish, though it is not acceptable to all palates. 
It must be roasted before a brisk fire, and must be 
well basted with, at first, hot water which has been put 
in the dripping pan with a pinch of salt ; pour away 
this water, replace it with salad oil, and continue 
to baste ; or take with a pair of tongs a piece of 
fat bacon, and rub it up and down the ' crackling.' 
The object is to keep the crackling from scorching, 
and to render it crisp. 

Make some balls with onion, sa^e, and bread- 
crumbs. Coat with breadcrumbs and eggs, fry and use 
for garnish ; a better mode than stuffing with onion 
and sage. A puree of apples or tomatoes may be 
served with sucking pig. 

Galantine of Sucking Pig. 

The body of the sucking pig must be carefully 
boned, the feet and head excepted. All the bits of 
meat which come off in the process of boning, a 
quantity of veal or of rabbit, of fat bacon, and of 
panada must be pounded in a mortar and seasoned ; 
and another smaller quantity of fillets of rabbit, bacon, 
truffles, and the liver of the pig must be made ready. 

Put a layer of the pounded meat, and then one of 
the mixed fillets in the pig, till you have filled it up ; 



196 BRAWN. 

then sew up the opening. Try to arrange it so as to 
preserve the shape. Fasten up in a cloth as other 
galantines, and braise slowly in weak stock with the 
usual vegetables for from three to four hours. Do 
not remove the cloth until it is cold. 



Brawn. 

The tin in which the brawn is made is to be a 
cylinder, of nine inches by seven inches. The sides 
must be perforated with small holes like a rushlight 
shade. 

Take a pig's head, feet, ears, and tongue, and a 
calf's foot (or cow's heel), let them be well turned 
and rubbed in pickle for six days. Boil slowly for 
seven hours. The head requires less than four hours 
to boil, the feet nearly seven. Remove all the meat 
and gristle from the bones, and cut, or tear into 
suitable pieces ; the tongue is to be cut into larger 
bits. Season with mixed spice and pepper. Arrange 
the skin next the sides of the tin, put a layer of meat 
and bits of tongue here and there, and so fill the tin 
with all your material. The effect aimed at is to give 
the mottled look of marble to the brawn. When the 
tin is filled with the prepared meat, a cloth is to be 
laid over it, and on that a 7 lb. weight, which must 
remain for 24 hours. 

Pickle for Brawn, &c. 

Pour 2 gallons of boiling water over 6 lbs. of salt. 
When quite cold put in ^ lb. saltpetre, pounded very 



BOAR'S HEAD. 197 

fine, I oz. bay salt, and \ lb. brown sugar. Mix 
thoroughly. 

Boar's Head. 

Pig's head, feet, and ears ; 

Haifa teaspoonful of black pepper, and the same of 
cayenne ; 

4 teaspoonsful powdered sage ; 
I teaspoonful mace ; 
One onion minced ; 
Salt and saltpetre. 

Soak the head twelve hours and lay in a strong 
brine, with a tablespoonful of saltpetre. Let it lie 
three days in this ; rinse, then boil it until you can 
draw out the bones. Do this very carefully from the 
back and under side of the head, breaking the outline 
of the top as little as possible. Chop the meat of the 
feet and ears, which should have been boiled with the 
head, season to taste with the spices indicated (tastes 
vary in these matters), beat in the brains, or two table- 
spoonsful of melted butter. Fill up the hollows left 
by the removal of the bones with this mixture. Tie 
in a flannel cloth, sewing this tightly into the shape of 
the head ; boil an hour and a quarter, and set aside 
to drain and cool. Do not remove the cloth until 
next day. 



198 POULTRY. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

POULTRY. 

Entrees of Chicken. 

Entries of chicken must be made from small 
tender chickens, with the exception of Chicken Cream 
and a few other dishes, in which the breast only is 
used. 

It must be borne in mind that the legs require 
longer cooking than the wings and breast, and are 
often better dealt with by forming part of an entirely 
different dish. 

For instance, the breasts of old hens being used 
for Chicken Cream, the legs and wings will make a 
pie, which must be baked long enough to render the 
legs quite tender ; or they can be used for the Spanish 
dish Chicken and Rice {polio con arroz) ; or for a 
curry ; or for Chicken Jelly, or for broth and stock. 

The illustration shows the size and jointing of 
chickens which are cut up for entrees — such as 
chicken a la Marengo, a la viennoise — or for fricassee, 
when not to be dressed as a whole chicken. 

These pieces cannot be arranged in a circle. 
They look best mounted in a pyramid, the coarser 
parts as the basis, the delicate parts on the top, with 
crisp parsley, if served dry — that is, without sauce — 



CHICKEN CUT UP. 



199 



with mushrooms and croutons round them if sauce is 
served in the same dish. 




CHICKEN, CUT UP. 
I, 4, LEGS ; 2, 3, BACK ; 5, 8, WINGS ; 6, /, BREAST; 9, lO, PINIONS. 



Chicken Cream. 

Pound the breast of an old hen in a marble mor- 
tar ; add half a pint of double cream while pounding ; 



200 POULTRY. 

pepper and salt to taste. Pass through a hair sieve, 
and work in another half pint of cream. Garnish a plain 
mould with tongue or ham and truffles, pour in the 
mixture, and steam for an hour very slowly. Serve 
with truffle or mushroom sauce, or a clear, but not 
watery brown sauce, or a puree of ham sauce. 

Cigarettes a la Reine. 

Make a forcemeat with the cooked white meat of 
chicken, chopped truffles, and white sauce. This 
forcemeat must be solid enough when cold to be 
placed in thin paste rolled to the length and breadth 
of a cigar. The rolls are lightly coated with very 
fine breadcrumbs, and fried a golden tint. It is im- 
portant that the outer coat should be crisp, and that 
the a la reine forcemeat should melt in the mouth. 
These cigarettes are to be sent up on a napkin, 
arranged in cross bars, two and two. 

The forcem.eat may be made of oysters instead of 
chicken. 

Chicken Souffles. 

These can be made with any kind of cooked 
poultry, game, or even meat, or with brains. The 
neatest arrangement for sending them to table is to 
have a supply of thin white china souffle cases, which 
will stand the oven. 

The chicken or other material is to be pounded 
with good stock or sauce, and passed through a 
tamis, the yolk of three or more eggs to be beaten 
and stirred in, and then the whites to be beaten and 



CHICKEN MAYONNAISE. 201 

Stirred in. Fill the souffle case, or cases, and bake 
for ten minutes, or till the top rises and turns a golden 
colour. 

Tomato souffles are made in a similar manner. 
Care must be taken to get rid of the watery part of 
the tomato before mixing with the eggs. 

Chicken Mayonnaise. 

Roast a chicken, and be sure that it is well done. 
Cut it up into suitable joints ; prepare four hard- 
boiled eggs by cutting them in quarters ; slice up a 
lettuce, and arrange the joints of chicken neatly upon 
it high in the centre ; strew olives, anchovies, capers, 
and gherkins, cut into small pieces, over the chicken. 
Mask the whole with a mayonnaise sauce, so that 
nothing be seen but the mayonnaise. Have sixteen 
pieces of white hearts of lettuce, and arrange these in 
a border round alternately with the sixteen pieces of 
hard-boiled ^g^. Beetroot should never be used in a 
mayonnaise. 

Little Patties a la Reine. 

Make some little patties with very light puff paste, 
and fill them with the following mixture : — 

The breast of chicken, tongue, truffl^es, and mush- 
rooms, all chopped sm.all and just warmed in white 
sauce. Serve themi on a napkin. 

Fillets of Chicken or Supreme de Volaille. 

To make a dish of fillets of chicken, four or six 
chickens and a tongue are required. The fillets are 



202 POULTRY. 

taken from the breast and the best part of the wing 
A good deal of dexterity is required to make the 
most of the breast and to obtain fillets of nearly equal 
size and thickness, and cutlet-shaped, so as to dress in 
a circle alternately with pieces of tongue of the same 
shape and of a bright red colour. 

The fillets are placed in a smite pan, w^ith clarified 
butter under them and buttered paper over. They 
must not be allowed to get brown in cooking. Each 
fillet must then have a coating of ' Supreme sauce,' 
and then the fillets and pieces of tongue are to be 
dressed in a circle. Truffles are placed in the centre 
(the truffles having been warmed in clear stock for a 
quarter of an hour) and more sauce is placed round 
the fillets. 

This is an ambitious dish, and only a skilled cook 
should attempt it Jiot. But, as a cold dish or chaud- 
froid, a little practice would enable a painstaking 
person to turn out an elegant entree. 



Broiled Chicken. 

(American Recipe.) 

It is possible to render a tough fowl eatable by 
boiling or stewing it with care. Never broil such ! 
And even when assured that your ' broiler ' is young, 
it is wise to make this doubly sure by laying it upon 
sticks extending from side to side of a dripping-pan 
full of boihng w^ater. Set this in the oven, invert a 
tin pan over the chicken, and let it steam for half an 
hour. This process relaxes the muscles, and renders 
supple the joints, besides preserving the juices that 



CHICKEN PUDDING. 203 

would be lost in parboiling-. The chicken should be 
split down the back, and wiped perfectly dry before 
it is steamed. Transfer from the vapour-bath to a 
buttered gridiron, inside downward. Cover with a 
tin pan or common plate, and broil until tender and 
brown, turning several times ; from half to three 
quarters of an hour will be sufficient. Put into a hot 
dish, and butter very well. Send to table smoking 
hot. 

Chicken Pudding. 

(American Recipe.) 

Cut up a chicken as for fricassee, and parboil, 
seasoning well with pepper, salt, and a lump of butter 
the size of an Qgg, to each chicken. The fowls should 
be young and tender, and divided at every joint. 
Stew slowly for half an hour, take them out, and lay 
on a flat dish to cool. Set aside the water in which 
they were stewed for your grav)'. 

Make a batter of one quart of milk, three cups 
of flour, three tablespoonsful of melted butter, half a 
teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and a small pinch 
of cream of tartar, with four eggs well beaten, and a 
little salt. Put a layer of chicken in the bottom of 
the dish, and pour about half a cupful of batter over 
it — enough to conceal the meat ; then another layer 
of chicken, and more batter, until the dish is full. 
The batter must form the crust. Bake one hour, in a 
moderate oven. 



204 POULTRY. 

Chicken k la Princesse. 

Braise a chicken. Cut the fillets out of the breast 
into as many cutlets as you want for your entree. 
Make some white sauce with cream and aspic. Sauce 
the cutlets on one side ; set them to cool, and then 
sauce them on the other. Put a little aspic in the 
bottom of a dish ; when set, put the cutlets all one 
way on the dish, and then cover them with aspic. 
When cold, cut them out and dish them on a border 
of aspic. Serve with Russian salad in the centre and 
croutons of aspic round. 

Fricassee of Chicken. 

(American Recipe.) 

Clean, wash, and cut up the fowls, which need not 
be so tender as for roasting. Lay them in salt and 
vvater for half an hour. Put them in a pot with 
enough cold water to cover them, and half a pound 
of salt pork cut into thin strips. Cover closely, and 
let them heat very slowly ; then stew for over an 
hour, if the fowls are tender. Chickens used for 
this purpose have occasionally required four hours 
stewing, but they were tender and good when done. 
Only put them on in time, and cook very slowly ; if 
they boil fast, they toughen and shrink into uneatable- 
ness. When tender, add a chopped onion or two, 
parsley, and pepper. Cover closely again, and, when 
it has heated to boiling, stir in a teacupful of milk, to 
which have been added two beaten eggs and two 
tablespoonsful of flour. Boil up fairly ; add a great 



FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 205 

spoonful of butter. Arrange the chicken neatly in a 
deep dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. In this, 
as in all cases where beaten ^^ is added to hot 
liquor, it is best to dip out a few spoonsful of the 
latter, and drop a little at a time into the Qgg, beat- 
ing at the same time, that it may heat evenly and 
gradually before it is put into the scalding contents 
of the saucepan or pot. Eggs managed in this way 
will not curdle, as they are apt to do if thrown sud- 
denly into hot liquid. 



Fricassee of Chicken. 

(Fi-ench Recipe.) 

In France, this dish is made with a whole chicken. 
As it must be a delicate white, care must be taken to 
select a chicken with a white skin. The trussing 
must be as for boiling. 

Have a shallow stewpan, melt in it a piece of 
butter, and stir in an ounce of flour. Add enough 
tepid water to make the liquid reach halfway up the 
chicken when laid on its side ; a pinch of salt and a 
small piece of lemon peel are to be put in. Put a 
buttered paper over the stewpan, and over that its 
cover. Let it simmer for three hours ; turn the 
chicken on the other side, and put in either oysters, or 
button mushrooms, or button onions ; simmer again, 
and when done (that is quite tender but not in rags), 
take it out, put it on a dish, and keep warm whilst you 
reduce the sauce if too thin, or make the sauce richer 
by the addition of some cream. The garnish of 
oysters or mushrooms, &c., must be placed round the 



2o6 POULTRY. 

chicken. As a chicken makes about six helps or 
rations, allow three oysters to each ration, four 
mushrooms, and two onions. It is a good plan to rub 
the chicken with lemon juice, and to blanch in boiling 
water for three minutes before putting in the stewpan. 
This is a far better dish than the English boiled 
fowl. 

Plain Fowl Pillau. 

Truss a fowl as for boiling; put into a braising 
pan with flour, butter, and water, and proceed as for 
fricassee of fowl till three parts done. If possible, 
use stock instead of water. Wash and dry Patna rice 
enough to cover the fowl ; cut up two or three small 
onions, or one Portugal onion, and fry in butter with 
the rice for a very short time. Then add the rice and 
onions, and black peppercorns, to the fowl, and, if 
necessary, moisten with weak stock. When both 
chicken and rice are cooked, place the chicken on the 
dish, and mask it with the rice, garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters, or with tomatoes. In 
India, raisins and more spice would be introduced 
into this dish. A few cardamom seeds stewed with 
the rice are a great improvement. 



Mutton and Fowl Pillau. 

(Indian Recipe.) 

Put I lb. of uncooked mutton cut in slices with 
four whole onions into one quart of water ; boil all this 
together until reduced to one-third ; take it off the fire ; 
mash the meat in the liquor ; strain through a linen 



FOIVL PILLAU. 207 

cloth, and set it aside. Take 8 ozs. of rice, wash it well, 
and dry by squeezing firmly in a cloth. Melt \ lb. of 
butter in a saucepan ; fry in it a handful of onions sliced 
lengthways. When they have become a brown colour, 
take them out and lay them aside. In the butter that 
remains fry slightly a fowl that has been previously 
parboiled ; take out the fowl, and in the same butter 
add the dry rice and fry it a little ; as the butter 
evaporates add the above broth to it, and boil the 
rice in it ; then put with it ten cloves, ten cardamoms, 
ten black peppercorns, and a very little mace ; add 
green ginger, and one dessert-spoonful of salt with 
the green ginger cut into thin slices. When the rice 
is sufficiently boiled, remove all but a little fire from 
underneath, and place some on the pan cover. If 
the rice be at all hard, add some water to it, and place 
the fowl in the centre to imbibe a flavour. Cover it 
over with the rice, and serve up garnished with hard- 
boiled eggs cut into either halves or quarters. 



Fowl Pillau No. 2. 

Boil a fowl, adding salt, whole black pepper, onion, 
a little ginger, a very little mace, and some cloves 
and raisins. The raisins and spice to be added later 
with the rice. 

Thoroughly wash and dry some rice — enough to 
cover the fowl when done. 

Fry some very finely shred onions in butter, and 
put them on one side. 

In this butter slightly fry the rice. 

Add the rice thus fried to the fowl, and finish them 



2o8 POULTRY. 

off together by simmering till rice and fowl are well 
done and all the liquid absorbed. 

Boil hard two eggs, and cut in quarters for gar- 
nishing. 

Place the fowl on a dish, mask it with the rice, 
crown the top with the finely shred onions, and place 
the quarters of eggs at intervals round the margin of 
the dish. 

Chicken Curry. 

Take two chickens, cut them into joints, fry them 
a light brown in 4 ozs. of butter, take them out, fry 
four large onions in the same butter a light brown. 
Add three tablespoonsful of flour, three of Yeatman's 
curry powder ; mix well together over the fire for 
five minutes, dilute wdth veal broth, boil slowly fifteen 
minutes, skim, and strain the chicken ; boil till tender; 
dish the chicken with a border of rice ; reduce the 
sauce to the consistency of melted butter ; serve it 
over the chicken. 

You can add a quarter of a cocoa-nut, four tama- 
rinds, a quarter of a clove of garlic ; these ingredients 
are a great improvement. 

Chicken Curry No. 2. 

(Indian Recipe.) 

Take a chicken weighing about \\ lbs., cut it into 
the smallest joints, and wash in water ; sprinkle 
over them a large teaspoonful of salt ; then cut up 
two small onions, and fry them in a stewpan with a 
tablespoonful of butter until brown ; now add the 



CHICKEN AND RICE. 209 

chicken to it, and fry for ten minutes longer. This 
being done, add one tablespoonful of curry paste and 
one tablespoonful of curry powder, with three wine- 
glasses of cold water ; stir all well together, and stew 
for ten minutes longer when it is ready. 

The same quantity of mutton, veal, pigeons, mixed 
vegetables, partridges, fish, rabbit, &c., may be sub- 
stituted for chicken. 

Chicken and Rice, or * Polio con Arroz.' 

(Spanish Recipe.) 

Cut a fowl into joints, wipe quite dry, and trim 
neatly. 

Put a wine-glass of the best olive oil in a stewpan 
let it get hot, and test the heat by putting in a bit of 
bread. When the bread is brown the oil is the right 
heat for frying the chicken. Stir and turn the joints, 
and sprinkle with salt. When the chicken is a golden 
brown, add some chopped onions and one or two red 
chillies, and fry all together. Meanwhile have ready 
four tomatoes cut in quarters and two teacups of rice 
well washed. Mix these with the chicken, then pour 
in a very small quantity of broth, and stew till the 
rice is cooked and the broth dried up. Sprinkle a 
little chopped parsley, and serve in a deep dish with- 
out a cover, as the steam must not be kept in. 

Fried Chicken, or ^Gebackene Hiihner.' 

(German Recipe.) 

Young chickens only can be used for this. They 
should be washed clean, and cut up, if small, into four, 

P 



2IO POULTRY. 

and if large into six parts. Season with salt and a 
little pepper ; roll them in flour ; fry in ^g<g and 
bread crumbs ; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 
Send up mayonnaise sauce in a tureen. 



Chicken k la Romaine. 

Take a good fowl trussed as for boiling. Put into 
a large stewpan four or five tablespoonsful of best 
olive oil, a pinch of salt, a few cloves and a piece of 
mace, a leek, and a bouquet of herbs. When the oil 
is quite hot, put in the chicken and let it cook very 
gently in the oil, moving it from time to time to 
prevent its burning. The fowl must be turned once 
or twice, so that all parts may be equally cooked. 
When it is quite cooked all through, it should be of a 
delicate brown colour. 

Strain out all the vegetables and herbs, and pour 
away some of the oil. Take the fowl out and keep it 
hot. To the oil remaining in the stewpan add a few 
spoonsful of good tomato puree, and a little stock. 
Stir well together and stew for about ten minutes. 
Have ready some macaroni well boiled and drained, 
and cut into pieces not more than i^ inches in length. 
Just heat the macaroni in the sauce. Pour round, but 
not over, the fowl, and serve. 



Roast Chicken a la Dumas. 

Truss the chicken so that the neck is bent in and 
closes the aperture ; place the liver and its equivalent 
of bacon inside the chicken ; tie it up so that, no spit 



CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. 211 

being used, it hangs like a bundle from the bottle- 
jack, the neck part downwards. Keep basting with 
butter and a sprinkle of salt and pepper, and roast 
a rich brown. When done, cut the twine which con- 
fined and suspended the chicken. Put it on the 
proper dish, and pour round it the butter, &c., from 
the dripping-pan. 

But on no account put any stock, broth, or sauce 
over the chicken. 

Chicken a la Mona. 

Truss a chicken as for boiling ; put it in a stewpan 
with \ lb. of streaky bacon cut into squares an inch 
thick. Let it fry till the chicken is become brown all 
over ; pour off all the grease, and add one Portugal 
onion sliced up, one glass of Chablis wine, one gill 
freshly made tomato sauce. Stew gently for H hours ; 
keep basting with the sauce from time to time. 

Chicken a la Marengo. 

The chickens used for this dish must be young 
and tender. Each chicken is cut up in- joints as re- 
presented in the illustration. These joints are to be 
saute m oil, with small onions chopped to the size of a 
pea, and chopped fine herbs and parsley. As the legs 
of all chickens require a longer time to cook than the 
other parts, they must be put in five minutes sooner. 
The oil must be tested with a crust of bread before the 
chicken is put in ; the colour which the chicken is to 
take is a light brown. The oil must be allowed to 
drain off ; and a sauce with button mushrooms and a 



212 POULTRY. 

squeeze of lemon, or with a tablespoonful of puree of 
tomato worked in, must have been prepared to sur- 
round the pile of chicken. The back, the legs, and 
inferior pieces form the basis ; the delicate pieces are 
put at the top. Croutons are placed round, with 
crayfish if obtainable. 

Chicken a la Bonne Femme. 

Stew two chickens in stock till they are three 
parts done, then take them out. Have ready a stew- 
pan and make a sauce with ^ pint of the broth in 
which the chickens have been stewed, some butter and 
flour worked together, and simmer for half an hour ; 
then add the juice of half a lemon and the yolks of four 
eggs. Season with pepper and salt, cut the chickens 
in joints, warm, and pour the sauce over. 

It is better not to send up the legs if the chickens 
are not young, but to return them to the stock, 
crushing the bone ; and to boil it down, strain, and 
make a mould of chicken jelly with the stock. 

Chicken a la Chabert. 

Cut a tender chicken in neat joints, season slightly 
with salt, white and red pepper, and fry in butter. 
When each joint on both sides is a rich golden brown 
colour, add a little chopped parsley, and either chopped 
onions or a very small quantity of garlic, and a table- 
spoon of rich meat gravy. Meanwhile have ready 
four tomatoes, cut in quarters, cleaned of their seeds, 
and fried in oil, with a touch of garlic or with chopped 
onions. 



GALANTINE OF CHICKEN. 213 

Mix the chicken and tomatoes, and let it stew for 
a few minutes. In dressing the chicken on a dish, 
place the tomatoes around. 

Galantine of Chicken. 

The chicken must be dexterously boned by an 
opening made at the back, the skin everywhere being 
kept whole. The joints of the limbs must be severed 
inside ; as little of the flesh as possible must be cut off 
in the operation. A sharp small knife, a pair of sharp 
scissors, and a good deal of practice are required for the 
operation. All the pieces of flesh which have to come 
out in removing the bones, and the bits which are cut 
off the carcass, must be chopped up with ham, fat 
bacon, and pounded veal ; large dice of tongue, 
truffles cut in small dice, pepper and salt, and the 
yolk of egg boiled hard should then be added. 

When this stuffing is ready, it is placed inside the 
chicken, and distributed so as to make the outside 
skin shapely. The back is neatly sewn • up. The 
chicken must then be placed in a cloth which is sewn 
round it, and tied at each end, the shape being that 
of a bolster. It must be braised in weak broth for 
four hours, and allowed to cool before being taken out 
of the cloth. The galantine must be glazed before 
sending to table. 

Bordeaux pigeons are excellent thus prepared. 
They are cut in two or four pieces w^hen cold, neatly 
dressed in a circle, the centre filled with broken aspic 
jelly, and croutons of aspic jelly placed as a border. 



214 POULTRY. 



To Bone a Turkey or Fowl without opening it. 

After the fowl has been drawn and singed, wipe it 
inside and out with a clean cloth, but do not wash it ; 
take off the head ; cut through the skin all round the 
first joints of the legs, and pull them from the fowl to 
draw out the large tendons. Raise the flesh first from 
the lower part of the back-bone, and a little also from 
the end of the breast-bone if necessary ; work the 
knife gradually to the socket of the thigh with the 
point ; detach the joint from it ; take the end of the 
bone firmly into the fingers, and cut the flesh clean 
from it down to the next joint, round which pass the 
point of the knife carefully, and when the skin is 
loosened from it in every part, cut round the next 
bone, keeping the edge of the knife close to it until 
the whole of the leg is done. Remove the bones of 
the other leg in the same manner ; then detach the 
flesh from the back and breast bone sufficiently to 
enable you to reach the upper joints of the wings. 
Proceed with these as with the legs, but be especially 
careful not to pierce the skin of the second joint. It 
is usual to leave the pinions unboned, in order to give 
more easily its natural form to the fov/1 when it is 
dressed. The merry-thought and neck bones may 
now easily be cut away, the back and side bones taken 
out without being divided, and the breast-bone sepa- 
rated carefully from the flesh (which, as the work pro- 
gresses, must be turned back from the bones upon the 
fowl until it is completely inside out). After the one 
remaining bone is removed, draw the wings and legs 



RABBITS. 215 

back to their proper form, and turn the fowl the right 
side outwards. 

A turkey is boned exactly in the same manner ; 
but as it requires a very large proportion of forcemeat 
to fill it entirely, the legs and wings are sometimes 
drawn into the body to diminish the expense of this. 
If very securely trussed and sewn, the bird may be 
either boiled or stewed in rich gravy, or roasted, after 
beinp- boned and stuffed. 



Chicken Pie with Potato Crust. 

This is an excellent dish for a picnic or out-of- 
doors luncheon. 

The pie is to be made of chicken, pigeons, or game, 
with a coarse ordinary crust. Remove that crust 
when cold ; place the contents of the pie in a deeper 
oval dish, allowing one and a half inches at top for 
the potato (the best kind of dish is the Sheffield 
baking-pan). Prepare some 
smooth mashed potato, and 
cover the remade pie with 
this, but do not allow it to be 
higher than the sides of the 
dish. Bake in the oven till Sheffield baking pan. 
the potato is a light brown. This pie packs and 
travels, and eats far better than when flour crust is 
the covering:. 




'is* 



Rabbits. 

All the recipes given for chickens are equally ap- 
plicable to rabbits. But as there is no fat on a rabbit, 



2i6 RABBITS. 

it is always desirable to cook bacon or fat pork with 
the rabbit, even if not sent up with the dish. 

Grenadins of Rabbit. 

Grenadins of rabbit are a satisfactory entree ; and 
the parts not used can be made into soup, or pies. 

The grenadins are made by taking the whole 
length of the back bone, with the fillet attached to 
each side. The bone is then divided into sections 
about two inches thick, and the pieces are neatly 
trimmed so as to be circular and shapely. They 
must be larded like little fricandeaus, and braised in 
a shallow braising pan, with buttered paper over 
them like a fricandeau. Dress in either an oblong or 
round dish, with spinach or sorrel in the centre, and 
brown sauce round. Set each grenadin by itself in 
dressing the dish, not overlapping, as cutlets. 

Boudins of Rabbit. 

Take the fillets of two young rabbits, fry in butter 
or olive oil, with a few chopped onions, drain the 
rabbit, and pound in the mortar. Bake some potatoes 
in their skins, dig out the inside and mix with the 
pounded rabbit, season with ' pelures de truffes,' incor- 
porate half a pound of the fat of either gammon, or 
bacon which has been boiled, and stir in four eggs 
well beaten. Form the whole into a long roll ; sur- 
round with a strong white paper, well buttered, and 
long enough at the ends to pinch over. 

Plunge in boiling water, then withdraw the sauce- 
pan from the strong heat, and simmer for ten minutes. 



GEESE AND DUCKS. 217 

Place in a dish which suits the shape, and surround 
with sauce, in which either truffles or dark mushrooms 
are mixed. 

The remains of a boudin may be cut in sHces and 
warmed, dressed in a circle, and surrounded with the 
same sauce. 

Barbecued Rabbit. 

(American Recipe.) 

Clean and wash the rabbit, which must be plump 
and young, and having opened it all the way on the 
under side, lay it flat, with a small plate or saucer to 
keep it down, in salted water for half an hour. Wipe 
dry and broil whole, (with the exception of the head) 
when you have gashed across the backbone in eight 
or ten places, that the heat may penetrate this, the 
thickest part. Your fire should be hot and clear, the 
rabbit turned often. When browned and tender lay 
upon a- very hot dish, pepper and salt, and butter 
profusely, turning the rabbit over and over to soak up 
the melted butter. Cover and set in the oven for five 
minutes, and heat in a tin cup two tablespoonsful of 
vinegar seasoned with one of made mustard. Anoint 
the hot rabbit well with this, cover, and send to table 
garnished with crisp parsley. 

Geese and Ducks. 

These birds require to be well roasted, to be 
stuffed with onions and sage, and to have both plain 
gravy and apple or tomato sauce sent up with them. 
They require some days to become tender ; no rule 



2i8 DUCKS. 

can be given, as the conditions of hanging depend on 
the daily changes of temperature and the time of the 
year. A tough goose, a tough duck, are pecuHarly 
unsatisfactory dishes. In the case of ducks, braising 
will produce an excellent dish, and this should always 
be the mode of cooking if there is any risk of tough- 
ness. 

Braised Ducks. 

Let the duck brown in a stewpan in boiling lard 
or dripping. Take out the duck ; dredge flour into 
the stewpan, and work it well and smoothly with the 
dripping. Then mix in broth till there is enough to 
half cover the duck. Season with pepper and salt, 
and a bunch of fine herbs, and braise till tender. 

Green peas, or turnips cut to the shape of olives 
and browned in butter and sugar, may be braised with 
the duck ; or olives may be stoned, blanched in boil- 
ing water, and warmed for a few minutes with the 
braised duck. A young goose may be braised in the 
same manner. The time required for a duck is two 
hours, and for a goose three hours. 

Braised Ducks a la St. Michel. 

Rub some flour and oil over the ducks, and brown 
in the oven for a short time. 

Mix together a cup of Chablis wine and a cup of 
broth ; season with pepper and salt ; braise the ducks 
till they arc tender, but not in rags. Have ready 
chopped mushrooms, chibbals, and parsley ; mix these 
with the broth in which the duck was braised. Put 



PIGEONS. 219 

the ducks to keep warm before the fire whilst you let 
the sauce ' reduce.' Dredge in a very little flour, and 
send up the ducks with the sauce round them. 

Observe that the ducks are to look a broivn, not a 
pale sodden colour. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Line a pie dish with thin slices of fat bacon, place 
on this the pigeons cut in quarters, three pigeons to a 
pie. Fill in the interstices with veal taken from the 
loin or leg (of course uncooked), season with pepper 
and salt, and proceed as to the crust in the same way 
as in making other meat pies. Make an opening in 
the centre of the crust by sticking in a bit of bone, and 
whilst the pie is baking pour in through this a little 
good broth. When the pie is finished the claws of 
the pigeons are used to ornament this opening, and to 
show what the pie contains. Pigeons should be killed 
by having their necks wrung. 

Pigeon Cutlets. 

Take the fillets of four pigeons— that is, the meat 
from each side of the breast, cut out with a sharp 
knife from the breast-bone to the wing-bones ; this 
produces eight fillets, which are enough for one entree. 
When double entrees are wanted, eight pigeons must 
be used. The fillets are to be beaten with a cutlet 
bat and a little trimmed, and fried in breadcrumbs 
and &%%. A small bone from the wing is stuck in 
each cutlet to simulate the bone of a mutton cutlet. 
The carcasses of the pigeons can be used to make the 



220 PIGEONS. 

sauce, or for a puree of pigeon soup. Surround with 
a fumet of srame sauce. 



fc>' 



Pigeons aux Petits Pois. 

Take four young pigeons, and brown them in 
butter ; cut into dice — about twenty-four dice — some 
streaky bacon ; soak and wash in tepid water, and 
half fry in the same butter in which the pigeons were 
browned. Stir in a large spoonful of flour, and place 
the pigeons, cut into neat joints, in the stewpan. Then 
stir in some stock and a seasoning of chopped onions, 
parsley, &c. Put the stewpan on the side of the 
stove, and let it simmer. When half done add a 
pint of young peas ; stir till they are cooked. If the 
sauce is too thin, the pigeons and peas must be taken 
out, and kept warm whilst the sauce is reduced. 
Arrange the pigeons and bacon as neatly as you can 
on a dish with the peas, and pour the sauce over. 

Devilled Duck or Teal. 

(Indian Recipe.) 

Get a good plateful of onions, a piece of green 
ginger, and six or eight chillies. Reduce them to a pulp 
as for curry, then add two teaspoonsful of mustard, 
pepper, salt, cayenne, and chutney, two tablespoonsful 
of catsup, and half a bottle of claret. Cut up the 
duck or teal, and put it into the sauce, which must 
simmer for a long time. The duck must be previously 
roasted, or it will want double the quantity of sauce. 



J 



LARKS. 221 

Devilled Legs of Poultry. 

( Indian Recipe.) 

Score the legs of a roasted turkey, goose, or fowl ; 
sprinkle them well with cayenne, black pepper, and 
salt ; broil them well, and pour over the following 
sauce :— 

Take three spoonsful of gravy, one of butter rubbed 
in a little flour, one of lemon-juice, a glass of port 
wine, a teaspoonful of mustard, some chilli vinegar, a 
teaspoonful of mushroom catsup, and one of Harvey 
sauce. Warm up and serve in a boat. 

If very highly seasoned, it may be served without 
sauce. 

Salmis of Larks. 

If larks are fat and in good order, a dozen ought 
to weigh 14 ozs. 

Take a dozen larks which have been drawn, 
picked, and singed ; save the livers. Saiitez the larks 
till they are half done ; make a forcemeat with the 
livers, any cold game or chicken, a little boiled bacon 
fat, and some chopped truffles. Fill the inside of the 
larks ; arrange them on a silver or china dish, with 
fried toast underneath each lark. Lay slices of bacon 
on the top, and over that a buttered paper ; let the 
dish cook in the oven for about twenty minutes ; re- 
move the paper and bacon ; sprinkle browned bread- 
crumbs over the larks, and send up in the same dish. 
Serve a sauce separately. 



222 GAME. 



CHAPTER XX. 

GAME. 

To Keep Game from Tainting. 

Draw as soon as the birds come into your possession ; 
rinse with soda and water, then with pure cold water. 
Wipe dry, and rub them Hghtly with a mixture of fine 
salt and black pepper. If you wish to keep them 
some time, put in the cavity of each bird a piece of 
charcoal ; hang them in a cool dark place, with a 
cloth thrown over them. Small birds, unless there 
are too many of them, may be kept in a refrigerator 
after you have drawn, washed, and wiped them. 

The charcoal is an admirable preventive of decom- 
position. 

To Roast Game. 

Prepare and truss as a fowl ; do not wash the bird, 
but wipe it dry. Put black ground pepper and a piece 
of butter inside the bird, and hang before a brisk fire, 
basting it well with butter. Shortly before it is done, 
which will be from a quarter of an hour to twenty 
minutes, put some toast below the bird, and let the 
butter drop upon it. Serve with breadcrumbs, and 
bread sauce if liked. 



GAME. 223 

Haunch of Venison. 

If the outside be hard, wash with lukewarm water ; 
then rub all over with fresh butter and lard. Cover 
it on the top and sides with a paste of flour and 
water, nearly half an inch thick. Lay upon this a 
large sheet of thin white wrapping-paper well buttered, 
and above this thick foolscap. Keep all in place by 
greased packthread, then put down to roast with a 
little water in the dripping-pan. Let the fire be 
steady and strong. Pour a few ladlesful of butter 
and water over the meat now and then to prevent the 
paper from scorching. If the haunch is large, it will 
take at least five hours to roast. About half an hour 
before you take it up, remove the papers and paste, 
and test with a skewer to see if it is done. If this 
passes easily to the bone through the thickest part, set 
it down to a more moderate fire, and baste every few 
minutes with claret and melted butter. At the last, 
baste with butter, dredge with flour to make a light 
froth, and dish. It should be a fine brown by this 
time. Twist a frill of fringed paper round the knuckle. 

For gravy, put into a saucepan a pound or so of 
scraps of raw venison left from trimming the haunch, 
a quart of water, a pinch of cloves, a few blades of mace, 
half a nutmeg, cayenne and salt to taste. Stew slowly 
to one-half the original quantity. Skim, strain, and re- 
turn to the saucepan when you have rinsed it with hot 
water. Add three tablespoonsful of currant jelly, a 
glass of claret, two tablespoonsful of butter, and thicken 
with browned flour. Send to table in a sauce-boat. 

Red currant jelly is always handed with venison. 



224 VENISON. 

Neck of Venison. 

A neck of venison should be used as a neck of 
mutton, for the three purposes of soup, haricot cutlets, 
and a ' roast' 

The breast will make venison pasty, and stock or 
gravy. 

Hashed Venison. 

It is desirable to have very rich gravy made from 
uncooked venison. If this cannot be had, stock made 
from hare, and thickened with the blood of the hare, is 
to be used ; failing this, take good stock with gravy 
from the haunch, and ' roux ' to thicken it, some claret 
and herb-flavour, and a pinch of sugar. Slices from 
the haunch of venison are to be cut thin, and warmed 
in the sauce. They must be heated through, but not 
allowed to cook in the sauce. Hashed venison must 
be sent up in a deep dish with a spirit lamp burning 
under it ; and red currant jelly in a tureen. 

Venison Pasty. 

(American Recipe.) 

Almost any part of the deer can be used for the 
purpose, but the neck and shoulders are generally pre- 
ferred. 

Cut the raw venison from the bones, and set 
aside these with the skin, fat, and refuse bits for 
gravy. Put them into a saucepan with a shallot, 
pepper, salt, and s\\'eet herbs. Cover with cold water 



VENISON. 225 

and set on to stew. Meanwhile cut the better pieces 
of the meat into squares an inch long, and cook in 
another saucepan until three-quarters done. Line a 
deep dish with good puff paste. That for the lid 
should be made after the recipe following this. Put 
in the squares of venison. Season with pepper, salt, 
and butter, and put in half a cupful of the liquor in 
which the meat was stewed, to keep it from burning 
at the bottom. Cover with a lid of the prepared 
pastry an inch thick. Cut a round hole in the middle, 
and if you have not a small tin cylinder that will fit 
this, make one of buttered paper ; stiff writing- 
paper is best. The hole should be large enough to 
admit your thumb. Bake steadily, covering the top 
with a sheet of clean paper as soon as it is firm, to 
prevent it from browning too fast. While it is cook- 
ing prepare the gravy. When all the substance has 
been extracted from the bones, &c., strain the liquor 
back into the saucepan ; let it come to a boil, and 
when you have skimmed carefully, add a glass of 
port wine, a tablespoonful of butter, the juice of a 
lemon, and some brown flour to thicken. Boil up 
once, remove the plug from the hole in the pastry, 
and pour in through a small funnel, or paper horn, as 
much gravy as the pie will hold. Do this very 
quickly ; brush the crust over with beaten Qgg, and 
put back in the oven until it is a golden brown. The 
pie should only be drawn to the door of the oven for 
these operations, and everything should be in readiness 
before it is taken out, that the crust may be light and 
flaky. If you have more gravy than you need for the 
dish, serve in a sauce-boat. 



226 HARE. 

Crust of Pasty. 

\\ lbs. flour; Salt ; 

12 ozs. butter ; Iced water 

3 eggs ; 

Dry and sift the flour, and work up half the butter 
in it ; salt, and work up with iced water, lastly adding 
the eggs beaten very light. Work out rapidly, hand- 
ling as little as possible. Roll out three times very 
thin, adding the rest of the butter, then into a lid 
nearly an inch thick, reserving an inner one for orna- 
ments. Having covered in your pie, cut from the 
second sheet with a cake cutter, leaves, flowers, stars, 
or any figure you like to adorn the top of your crust 

Bake the centre ornament upon a tin plate by 
itself, and brush it over with ^gg when you glaze the 
pie. After the pasty is baked, cover the hole in the 
middle with this. 

Bake two or three hours, guiding yourself by the 
size of the pie. It is good hot, but better cold. 

To Bone a Hare. 

The hare must be a freshly killed one. Clear the 
back-bone from the flesh on the inside, lay this back 
from the centre of the bone to the ribs, work the 
knife quite to the spine, and when the whole is 
detached except the skin which adheres to this, 
separate the bone at the first joint from the neck-bone, 
and pass the knife with caution under the skin, down 
the middle of the back. The head is to be kept on ; 
the legs and shoulder-bones may either be left on or 



HARE. 227 

removed. The trunk, after the spine and ribs are re- 
moved, is to be filled with a forcemeat or bread stuffing. 
The under skin is to be neatly sewn up, and the whole 
securely fastened round with string and skewers before 
roasting. The bones can be used for soup or gravy. 

The object of boning a hare is to facilitate the 
carving. The question, therefore, is whether the cook 
is skilful enough to do the form of carving called 
boning. 



Jugged Hare, or * Civet de Lievre.' 

Cut a hare into pieces of such a size that each is 
a moderate helping. Save the blood. Cut up some 
streaky bacon in dice, and fry partially, then fry 
the hare slightly in the fat in which the bacon has 
been fried, and then fry some button onions, or an 
onion cut in dice, in the same fat, mix some dried 
flour in the fat, and stir it in a pint of broth, put this 
in a stewpan with the hare, bacon, pepper, and fine 
herbs. The bacon supplies enough salt. Let it simmer 
till the hare is becoming tender ; the time depends 
on the age of the hare, and may be hardly one hour 
or quite two hours. A tumbler of claret is to be 
stirred in gradually with the blood and the onions, 
and the simmering is to continue another half-hour. 
Serve hot in a deep dish with a garnish of fried 
sippets. There must be enough sauce for each help- 
ing, but on no account must it be thin. If the mixture 
of the blood has not made the sauce thick, a little 
more dried flour may be dredged in. 

If it is wished to have hare soup next day, the 
Q 2 



22} 



GAME. 



remains of the jugged hare will make a puree soup 
with stock. 

Fillets of Hare. 

Cut some neat fillets from the backs and haunches 
of two hares ; lard them thickly. Put a little olive oil 
in the frying-pan with some chopped onion, lay in 
the fillets, the larded side uppermost, and fry lightly. 
Make a sauce with stock, claret, and ' roux,' finish 
cooking the fillets in this, dress in a circle and sur- 
round with the sauce. Always take care that the 
points of bacon stand up, or the appearance of a 
larded dish is spoiled. 

Guisado. 

(Spanish Recipe.) 

Take hare, partridge, pheasant, or even rabbit, 
cut it up, save the blood, the liver, and the giblets ; 
do not wash the pieces, but dry them in a cloth ; fry 
them with sliced onions in a teacup of oil till browned ; 
take an olla (a jar), put in these bits with the oil, 
equal portions of red wine and stock (the wine may 
be Claret or Valdepenas), a few bits of bacon, onions, 
garlic, a bunch of thyme or herbs, salt, pepper, chillies ; 
let it simmer, and skim carefully ; half an hour 
before serving, add the giblets. The stew should be 
stirred with a wooden spoon, the grease must be 
skimmed off as it rises to the surface, and the progress 
of the cooking ascertained by feeling with a fork : 
the meat must be ready to come away from the 
bones, but must not have come away. 



GAME. 229 



Leveret (saute). 



Cut a young leveret in pieces of a moderate size, 
and as nearly of a uniform shape as possible. Put it 
in a stewpan, with butter, and a seasoning of pepper 
and salt ; let it sauter till both sides have set, then 
throw in chopped onions, button mushrooms, and 
enough broth and wine mixed to come just over the 
surface of the pieces, dredge in a little flour, and 
simmer till the hare is quite tender and done. Serve 
with sippets of fried toast. 



Chartreuse of Partridge. 

Take two full-grown partridges — old birds are 
best, but they must be fresh — lard with bacon, cut up 
some bacon in dice, and some sausages in pieces, and 
braise in good stock, with the usual seasoning, till 
the partridges are tender. Let the bacon, &c., stew 
longer. Meanwhile parboil some cabbages, carrots, and 
turnips. Line a plain mould — which must not be too 
deep — with these vegetables arranged in patterns ; 
put in the partrid ;es, sausages, and bacon ; press in 
quite tight ; cover with a buttered paper ; and finish 
in the bain-marie. Take care not to have the sauce 
in the chartreuse, or it will fall to pieces ; but either 
pour round or serve in a sauce tureen. 

Pigeons may be substituted for partridges. 



230 PARTRIDGE. 

Partridge and Cabbage. 

The partridges must not be young ; well-grown 
old birds are best. They must be trussed as chickens 
are for boiling, and slightly browned in the j<2?^//-pan. 

Put them in the braising pan with some bacon or 
gammon cut in dice, and two onions ; surround with 
stock, and braise till three-parts done. 

Have ready some nice tender cabbage ; blanch, 
drain, and dry it. Finish the cooking of the cabbage 
and the partridges in the braising pan. Place the 
cabbage on a dish, and the partridges on the cabbage, 
with the bits of bacon round. Take away the onions ; 
let the sauce reduce (or boil away), keeping the part- 
ridges warm meanwhile, and then pour round, and 
serve. 

Pheasants or pigeons may be dressed in the same 
way. 

Souffle of Partridge. 

Take the flesh of roast partridges, free from skin 
or sinew, and pound in a mortar ; moisten with rich 
gravy, season with pepper and salt, and pass the 
whole through a tamis. Mix in a small quantity of 
butter ; warm in a stewpan, and then add the yolks 
of four eggs. The whites must be beaten to a snow, 
and then carefully stirred in. Pour the mixture into 
a silver souffle-case, or into a number of little china 
cases, and bake till it rises. Send up at once, with 
sauce — a clear, rich, brown sauce— in a tureen. 

This souffle can be made with any kind of cold 
bird, or even with cold meat. 



PHEASANT. 231 

Pheasant a la Soubise. 

The pheasants thus dressed need not be young ; 
but they must not be much knocked about by shot. 

Truss as a boiled chicken, and then braise in good 
stock, with a layer of bacon, vegetables, and fine herbs. 
When tender, carefully remove from the braising pan ; 
let them drain ; place before the fire, that the surface 
may dry. Then dish up, with soubise sauce over 
them and around. 

Partridges may be dressed in the same way. 

Celery sauce or chestnut sauce may be substituted 
for soubise sauce. 

Pheasant a la St. Cloud. 

Bone a fine cock pheasant, and fill with the fol- 
lowing mixture : — 

Take the flesh of one or two woodcock or snipe 
(or, in default of these, of partridge, or even rabbit) ; 
use the livers of all the birds, and the inside fat ; 
chop very small ; add \ lb. of truffles cut into small 
dice, some fine herbs, pepper and salt, and the yolks 
of three eggs. Mix thoroughly. 

Sew the pheasant up neatly, keeping it a good 
cushion shape. Roast carefully in a cradle spit, 
basting with Chablis wine. Place toast under to re- 
ceive the gravy ; and serve on the toast. 

The sauce is to be Italian sauce with chopped 
truffles added to it. 



232 GAME. 



Salmis of Game. 



Cut cold roast partridges, grouse, or quails into 
joints, and lay aside while you prepare the gravy. This 
is made of the bones, trimmings, skin, and general 
odds and ends, after you have selected the neatest 
pieces of the birds. Put these scraps into a saucepan, 
with one small onion minced and a bunch of sweet 
herbs ; pour in a pint of water, and whatever gravy 
you may have, and stew, closely covered, for nearly 
an hour. A few bits of fat pork should be added if 
you have no gravy. Skim and strain, return to the 
fire, and add a little brown sherry and lemon-juice ; 
thicken with brown flour if necessary ; boil up, and 
pour over the reserved meat, which should be put into 
another saucepan. Warm until all is smoking hot, 
but do not let it boil. Arrange the pieces of bird in 
a symmetrical heap upon a dish, and pour the gravy 
over them. 

Salmis of Partridge or Woodcock No. 2. 

It is necessary that game used for salmis should 
not be high. Three birds are required for a dish. 

Truss the birds as for roasting, and sautes in butter 
in a stewpan. Let them become half cold, and then 
cut off the wings and legs from the carcass, and 
separate the breast ; trim each piece and remove the 
skin. Take the carcasses, trimmings, and some fat 
bacon, and prepare a little strong gravy to mix with 
ordinary brown sauce. Fry the livers in butter ; pound 
and mix with the sauce ; warm, skim, and pass 



QUAILS. 233 

through a sieve. Warm the joints of bird in the 
sauce, and dress them on the dish : the six legs form 
the base, the six wings are placed on the legs, and 
the three breasts at the top. Garnish with fried 
croutons, truffles, and mushrooms. 



Quails. 

Each quail must be covered with vine leaves and 
a thin slice of fat bacon, so that only the ends of the 




BARDED QUAH.S. 

legs may be exposed to the free action of the fire 
whilst roasting. Place them on a skewer with toast 
underneath to catch the gravy. Serve very hot, with 
the toast. 

Compote of Quails. 

Truss the quails with their legs inside ; saiitez 
them in butter for a minute or two, then put them in 
a stewpan with a sweetbread cut in slices, a slice of 
ham, button mushrooms and truffles cut in dice, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, some rich stock into which a 
glass of Chablis has been stirred, and some baked 
flour. Simmer till the quails are done ; take them 
out and keep warm whilst you remove the ham and 



234 GAME. 

herbs from the sauce ; add a squeeze of lemon, and 
reduce it to the proper consistency. Serve in a hash 
or deep dish with croutons round. 



Salmis of Snipe or Woodcock. 

Surround the breast and back with sHces of bacon 
and par-roast the birds. Let them cool ; strip off the 
bacon and the skin. Trim, and divide into two or 
four pieces. Prepare a fumet of game sauce. 

The pieces of woodcock or snipe are to be 
warmed — not boiled — in good stock. They are to be 
neatly arranged on the dish surrounded with the 
game sauce and garnished with croutons. 

Game intended for salmis must be fresh, and if 
any part is tainted by the shot, it must be cut out. 
The trail of a fresh woodcock can be mixed with the 
sauce in making. 

Wild Duck, Teal, Widgeon. 

These birds must not be over-roasted ; they must 
come to table with a rich brown surface, but with their 
own gravy inside. Cayenne pepper and sections of 
lemon are served with them, but bigarade sauce 
should also be sent up when oranges are in season. 

Wild fowl sometimes have a fishy taste, which is 
extremely objectionable. By skinning in some cases, 
and by only using the fillets from the breasts in others, 
an excellent dish may be secured. The fillets should 
be broiled or saute, and the sauce should be seasoned 
with lemon-juice and cayenne pepper. 



GAME. 235 

Ptarmigan. 

The only way to treat this bird is to roast it, with 
such precautions as may obviate the defect of dryness. 
This may be done by larding the breast thickly, by 
tying a large piece of bacon over the whole bird, or b}' 
placing inside breadcrumbs saturated with butter. 

Ptarmigan must be frequently basted whilst roast- 
ing ; toast must be allowed to brown in the dripping- 
pan, and be placed under each bird ; gravy and 
fried breadcrumbs are to be sent up in tureens. 



Roast Snipe or Plover. 

Clean and truss ; lay in rows in the dripping- 
pan, or tie upon a spit ; sprinkle with salt, and baste 
vrell with butter, then with 
butter and water. When 
they begin to brown — 
which will be in about ten 
minutes — cut as many 
rounds of bread without 
crust as there are birds. 
Toast quickly, butter, and 
lay in the dripping-pan with a bird over each. Wlien 
the birds are done, serve upon the toast with the 
gravy poured over it. The toast should lie under them 
while cooking at least five minutes, during which 
time the birds should be basted with melted butter 
seasoned with pepper. 

The largest snipe will not require above twenty 
minutes to roast. 




TRIVET FOR ROASTING. 



236 GAME. 



Game Pie. 

Take two or more kinds of game, and be sure they 
are quite fresh. Remove any part that may be tainted 
by the shot, or any other cause. Cut off the meat in 
large and neat pieces ; put in a mortar the smaller 
fragments with some half-boiled bacon, pound and 
mix thoroughly, and season. If convenient cut up 
truffles and bits of tongue, and add. Set the bones 
on in a little cold water, and simmer till you have a 
small quantity of rich broth. 

Place the large pieces and the pounded portions 
in alternate layers in a deep dish (which fits into an 
outer dish of ornamental ware), moisten with the broth, 
cover with a flour and water paste, bake for three 
hours, let it get cold, remove the paste, and put the 
dish in its ornamental frame, cover with broken bits 
of aspic jelly and set croutons of aspic jelly all round, 
fold a napkin on a large dish, put the game-pie dish 
on it, and arrange a wreath of parsley at the base. 



Pheasant, Game, or Chicken Pie No. 2. 

Cut up the birds into neat joints ; break the bones 
of the legs, and beat the flesh of the legs. Remove 
the bony parts of the carcass, and put them in a stew- 
pan, with the usual seasoning, to make stock for the 
pie. 

Line the bottom of a deep pie-dish — brown earthen- 
ware dishes are best— with slices of bacon, lay in the 
birds, sprinkle with fine herbs, pepper, and salt, and. 



CHA UD-FROID. 237 

if liked, put in some truffles or hard-boiled eggs. 
Place a layer of paste on the edge of the pie-dish, and 
more slices of bacon on the birds. Cover with paste. 
Make an ornamental centre, and stick in a bone, 
which is to be taken out when the pie is baked, and a 
funnel passed in, through which the stock from the 
carcass is to be poured in. The pie must be baked 
for three hours, and the gravy or stock is to be in- 
troduced at the last moment. 

Chaud-froid. 

In all the preparations of chicken or game called 
chaud-froid, a rich sauce flavoured with the kind of 
bird for which it is to be the coating, and white or 
brown as the dish is to be white or brown, is to be 
mixed with a third of the quantity of meat jelly of 
the same colour ; whilst this sauce is in a liquid state, 
the fillets or joints of chicken, quail, partridge, or 
other bird are dipped in it, so as to be completely 
coated ; they are then placed to cool. When cold 
there ought to be a uniform semi-transparent and 
perfectly smooth jelly over the fillet or joint. A dish 
is formed by placing the fillets in a circle. 

As it is important that this dish should be ex- 
quisitely neat, the fillets or little joints must be cut 
and trimmed to a uniform size and shape ; it is not 
absolutely necessary to remove all bone, but any 
bone which projects must be got rid of; it is with 
these fragments that the sauce is prepared. The 
quails, woodcocks, or partridges are to be roasted 
with a buttered paper over them, and the sauce will 



238 GAME. 

be made brown for them. Chicken is to be braised 
white, and the chaud-froid sauce is to be white. A 
Httle basis of toast to each small fillet of quail may 
be neatly arranged. A small slice of tongue can be 
introduced when the dish is made of chicken. 



Omelette Soufflee of Game. 

Pound the breast of a partridge and a large truffle, 
and stir into an omelette mixture. A little salt and 
a touch of white pepper must be added. Bake in a 
souffle dish or in little china cups. 



CURRY. 239 



CHAPTER XXI. 

VARIO US SA VO UR V DISHES. 
011a Podrida. 

(Ford's ' Spain.') 

Take two earthenware jars ; place in No. i beans 
or lentils which have been soaked for twelve hours, a 
chicken or old hen, a piece of beef, a piece of bacon, 
enough water to cover these materials. Stew four 
hours. 

Place in No. 2 lettuces, cabbage, carrots, turnips 
or kohl rabi, celery, onions, chillies, red sausages and 
half a salted pig's face which has been soaked for 
twelve hours. Water to cover stew as No. i. Skim 
both jars, drain and throw away the water of No. 2 ; 
use that of No. i as gravy. 

In a large dish arrange chicken and pig's face in 
centre, bacon &c. around on the vegetables. Serve 
very hot. 

Curry. 

Fry some sliced onions till brown, in butter. Take 
out the onions and reserve. Mix the curry powder in 
a little stock, or water, till it is of the consistency of 
cream. Stir this in the butter out of which you have 
taken the onions, and let it cook for ten minutes. 



240 CURRIED KABOBS. 

Cut the meat into dice, or, if chicken, into joints ; 
sHce up one or two onions and apples, and stew all 
together in the curry sauce for one and a half or two 
hours, adding more stock if wanted. 

The curry sauce must be cooked long enough for 
the grains of curry powder and the butter to separate, 
and the meat must be tender enough to be eaten 
with a spoon. The browned onions are to be mixed 
in, and just allowed to get hot, before serving the 
curry. Always buy the best curry powder and paste. 

Curried Kabobs, 

For this dish you require a set of small skewers — 
silver or plated ; but ordinary metal or wood skewers 
will answer the purpose ; they must not be more than 
four inches long. 

Cut up the meat — beef, mutton, or veal— into 
pieces about the size of a shilling, and about one-quarter 
of an inch thick ; and cut an equal number of pieces of 
green ginger and onions, of as nearly as possible the 
same size. Put them on the skewers, alternating a 
piece of meat, of onion, and of ginger. Prepare a 
curry sauce as for ordinary curry, and cook the 
kabobs in it. Serve with boiled rice in a separate 
dish. 

This dish may be made with cold meat 

Indian Sandwiches. 

Slices of bread cut with the circular cutter are to be 
fried in butter, and the following preparation is to be 
placed between two of the slices. 



CURRY. 241 

Mince the meat of a cold pheasant or chicken very 
fine ; mix with it an equal quantity of ham or tongue ; 
stir in two spoonsful of white sauce, a teaspoonful of 
curry paste, and the juice of a lemon. Warm in a 
stewpan, and place between the slices of bread. 
Arrange on a napkin ; serve hot. 

Curry made with Australian Meat from a Tin. 

Turn out the contents of the tin, and separate the 
meat, the fat, and the jelly. 

Fry in the fat some sliced carrots, turnips, and 
onions, with an apple or tomato. Dissolve the jelly 
in water, and stir in some curry powder and curry 
paste. Stew the fried vegetables in this mixture. Cut 
up the meat with a very sharp knife, and just let it 
warm in the vegetable curry, but do not boil. Send 
up rice as with other curries. If liked, use mustard 
flour instead of curry powder. 

Tinned Meat, with Rice. 

Put in a large earthen jar i lb. of rice, and four 
or five onions sliced up, and water enough to swell 
the rice. Let it cook in the oven, or on the range, till 
the rice is tender ; as water can always be added, and 
as rice varies in its power of absorbing water, it is 
best to start with a smaller quantity of water, and to 
add more if wanted. 

Cut up the meat from a 2-lb. tin, cutting against 
the grain. Rub with pepper and a little mustard flour, 
and stir in with the tender rice. Let the meat get 
hot through. 



242 



RISSOLES. 



If fresh meat is used, it must stew till sufficiently 
cooked in the rice. 



Rissoles and Croquettes. 

When the scraps of cold chicken, duck, or other 
bird are not enough to make a larger dish, they can 
be used for rissoles and croquettes. 

There should be a mixture of ham, boiled bacon, 

or tongue, with these 




scraps, 



and there 



CROQUETTES. 



must be some good 
sauce. 

But just as the 
scraps of chicken, 
&c., are saved from 
a previous day's din- 
ner, and utilised, so 
the cold melted butter, or anchovy sauce, &c., should 
be saved and used. 

The scraps of poultry or meat must not be torn 

into long shreds, 
but must be cut 
with a sharp 
knife, or chop- 
per, so that they 
are small squares, 
not larger than 
an eighth of an 
inch. 

It is often the 
practice to mix the minced meat consisting of the 




CROQUETTES. 



KROMESKIS. 



243 



above scraps with eggs. This is a mistake : the minced 
meat must be allowed just to warm in a thick sauce, 
and then to set and get cold in it. The sauce is of 
course flavoured, and chopped lemon peel and chopped 
mushrooms may be conspicuous ingredients of the 
mixture. The mixture must be moulded into balls, 
or pears, or cutlets, and therefore must be of a consis- 
tency to bear the operation. 

Then dip in breadcrumbs and ^gg twice, and fry 
a golden brown (these are croquettes) ; or use as the 
centre of little turnovers of puff paste, and fry (these 
are rissoles). Serve on a napkin with fried parsley as 
a garnish. 

The pastry rissoles may be coated also with Qgg 
and vermicelli, broken very fine before being fried. 



Kromeskis. 

Take some fat bacon and cut thin slices, 2 inches 
square. Have ready some delicate quenelle, or 
forcemeat, or a 
very fine minced 
preparation, 
in which there 
should be mush- 
rooms, or truffles, 
or a flavouring of 
chopped lemon- 
peel, and lay this in small quantities on the sliced 
bacon. Roll up each slice carefully, so as to be about 
the size of a cork ; let them get cold. 

Each roll must be egged and breadcrumbed or 
R 2 




KROMESKIS. 



244 RICE CUTLETS. 

dipped in frying batter, and must be fried a rich 
brown. Send up on a napkin with crisp parsley. 

Kromeskis require so small a quantity of force- 
meat that it is very convenient to make them as an 
entree when the supply of materials is short. 

Rice Cutlets. 

\ lb. cooked rice ; 

\ lb. cooked mutton chopped very fine ; 

\ lb. cooked beef chopped very fine ; 

\ lb. suet ; 

\ lb. bread crumbs. 

A little chopped onion which has been parboiled ; 
cayenne and salt in very small quantities ; mix well 
together with cream or broth, and just warm. Let 
the mixture set in a large shallow dish ; cut into the 
shape of mutton cutlets ; ^gg and breadcrumb ; fry a 
golden brown. Serve on a napkin with fried parsley 
in the centre, or serve with a stiff puree in the centre 
and sauce round, exactly like cutlets. 

Chopped ham or boiled bacon may be used, or 
any scraps of poultry, but then the salt should be 
omitted. 

Rice Patties, or Cassolettes de Riz. 

Wash thoroughly and parboil a quantity of Caro- 
lina rice, strain off the water, and put on the rice, with 
as much white stock as it will absorb, and a little 
milk to keep it white ; flavour with Parmesan cheese. 
When the rice is almost a jelly, pour into a vessel in 
which it will become a layer about two inches deep ; 



RA VIOL/. 245 

let it cool, and then have two cutters, one to cut out 
a circular mass of rice, which forms the ' patty,' the 
other to cut out the centre, and leave the opening for 
the puree or other filling-up material. 

The patties are egged and breadcrumbed, and 
fried a light golden brown. 

The puree may be of quenelle meat made more 
liquid than if intended for quenelles ; of any very fine 
mince ; of oyster forcemeat ; of sweetbreads cut into 
tiny dice and mixed with truffles and mushrooms ; 
or of palates treated in the same way. 

A sweet dish may also be made, using apricot or 
apple marmalade to fill the rice frames, but then of 
course no Parmesan cheese is introduced. 

Ravioli. 

Prepare a paste with flour, eggs, and a pinch of salt. 

Have ready forcemeat made from fish, meat, or 
poultry (cooked), with fine herbs and lemon-peel 
chopped verj/ fine. 

Roll the paste till it is as thin as parchment ; cut 
into circular pieces three or four inches in diameter ; 
place on each a 
portion of the force- 
meat ; double the 

RAVIOLI. 

paste and pinch to- 
gether the edges. Place these ' turnovers ' in a deep 
dish which will bear the oven ; pour broth on them, 
and powder with Parmesan cheese. Twenty to thirty 
minutes will be enough in the oven. Place the dish 
on another dish, so that the ravioli are sent to table 
without being disturbed. 




246 



TIMBALES. 



Iced Savoury Souffle. 

This is a very refined dish, and may be made 
with chicken, or with fish, if a maigre dish is pre- 
ferred ; in the latter case the aspic jelly must be 
made with fish bones. 

Cut up the white of chicken, or a lobster, or 
crab into very small fragments ; let it viariiier in a 
mixture of oil, vinegar, seasoning, and mayonnaise 
sauce for two hours. 

Have, ready some aspic jelly, and whip it till it is 
frothy ; put a layer of this at the bottom of a silver 
souffle dish ; then a layer of the mixture, and so 
on till the dish is nearly full. Pin a band of cartridge 
paper round, and fill in with whipped aspic ; ice it. 
Take off the band of paper (the aspic then is higher 
than the dish) and serve. 



Timbales k la Pahlen. 

Boil some macaroni in water till it is tender, but 
not broken ; strain ; cut into lengths which fit your 

dariole moulds, 
and line the 
moulds with the 
macaroni, adjust- 
ing the top by 
bending the ma- 
TiMBALEs. caroni in a spiral. 

Fill the tim- 
bales with white quenelle meat ; scoop out the centre, 




MEAT MINCE. 247 

and fill with black quenelle made of truffles, mush- 
rooms, and ham. Steam ; serve with white sauce. 

Quenelles may be made with a core of dark stuffing 
of the same materials as above. 



Dormers. 

Half a pound of cold meat, 2 ozs. beef suet, 3 ozs. 
boiled rice, very dry, all chopped very fine and 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and catsup, or any sauce 
that is liked. 

Roll into flat cakes ; egg and breadcrumb them ; 
fry and serve with thick gravy. 

Meat Mince. 

Cut off from the bones of roast meat, or poultry, 
or game, all the scraps which are too small to be used 
in any other way. Use by preference two or three 
kinds of meat, and if there is cold boiled bacon or 
ham, add a small quantity, but do not use the hard, 
dried-up lean of bacon. When ham or bacon is used 
the sauce must not have any salt in it. Chop up these 
scraps, cutting against the grain, and endeavouring to 
produce very small squares, not rags or strings of the 
meat : take out any bits of gristle, cut up an onion 
or some chibbals to the same size, put the mixture 
in a stewpan with a bit of butter, and dredge in a 
little flour ; let it just brown. 

Prepare a sauce, either white or brown, as suited 
to the meat, with broth, flour, and butter, and if for 
veal, cream, warm the minced meat in the sauce, make 



248 SCANDINAVIAN DISHES. 

a border of mashed potato, rice, or hominy, and pour 
in the mince ; or, if there is to be no border, place a 
garnish of toasted bread all round, and stick toasted 
bread the shape of almonds all over the mound of 
mince. The mince must be rather stiffer if there is to 
be no border round it. 



Kottbullar. 

(Scandinavian Recipe.) 

Take some of the uncooked fillet of a sirloin of 
beef, chop as fine as possible, and mix in finely chopped 
suet. Make a custard with milk, eggs, and powdered 
cracker biscuits ; stir together the m.eat and the cus- 
tard ; season with salt, pepper, and spice ; roll in the 
shape of balls ; fry in butter. 



Kalolmar. 

This dish is prepared in the same way as the pre- 
ceding dish, but the mixture is rolled in boiled 
cabbage leaves, and braised in butter over a slow fire 
till the cabbage is browned. 



CHEESE FONDU. 249 



CHAPTER XXII. 

SA VO UR V DISHES WIT HO UT ME A T. 

Fondu. 

One pint of cream, \ lb. Parmesan cheese, are to be 
warmed together. The yolks of eight eggs are to be 
stirred in one by one, till the whole mass is smooth, in 
an earthenware basin (which will fit into a silver case) ; 
place it in a bain-marie, and let it steam slowly for 
half an hour. If you have no silver case, pin a napkin 
neatly round the basin, so as to disguise its form. 

If preferred, the fondu may be allow^ed to cool, 
and then be cut into disks the size of a crown piece 
and half an inch thick, dipped in bread crumbs and 
eggs, and fried a golden brown. 

Cheese Custard. 

Two or three ounces of cheese scraped into pieces 
as fine as shavings. Beat this up with one large or 
two small eggs, and about \ pint of milk. Butter a 
pudding dish well, pour in the mixture, and then put 
in two small pieces of butter about the size of a hazel 
nut. 

Bake in the oven for a few minutes. 



250 CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Souffle au Parmesan. 

Dissolve \ lb. of butter in a stewpan, and stir in the 
yolks of five eggs. As soon as it begins to thicken, 
take the stewpan off the fire and work in 5 or 6 ozs. 
of grated cheese, Parmesan or Parmesan and Gruyere 
mixed ; place again on the fire, and stir till it is a 
smooth paste ; remove from the fire, and work in one 
white of Qgg which has been well whipped. Before 
the mixture is put into the souffle case, the remaining 
whites of tgg are to be whipped and stirred in, and 
immediately this is done it is to be put into the oven 
at a moderate heat Twenty to twenty-five minutes 
is the time required for the baking, but do not begin 
too soon, as all souffles should be served the moment 
they, not the guests, are ready. 

Ramequins k la Raymond. 

4 spoonsful of flour ; 

J lb. scraped Gruyere cheese ; 

A pinch of salt. 

Stir well together in a saucepan off the fire. 

Warm in another saucepan a piece of butter the 
size of an Qgg in a cup of water. Stir this slowly into 
the flour and cheese, and mix it for three or four 
minutes, then put on the stove and keep stirring ; 
when it is a thickish paste take it off the fire and 
work in two or three eggs one by one. Have ready 
a shallow tart dish, butter it and drop in lumps of 
the paste about the size of a walnut. Put it in the 
oven, and let them bake for twenty minutes ; as each 



CHESTER CAKES. 251 

bit ought to swell to twice its original size, allowance 
must be made in the number put on the dish. 

Ramequin a la Genevoise. 

Cut slices of bread \ inch thick, and of sizes to 
cover the bottom of the shallow fireproof dish. Let 
the bread absorb as much milk as it can without 
breaking. Coat the dish with butter and lay on it 
the bread. Grate enough Gruyere (or other cheese) 
to cover the bread ; let the grated cheese dissolve in 
cream, or milk and butter, on the fire. When it is 
thoroughly smooth pour it over the bread, place the 
dish in the oven, and let it remain for half an hour, or 
till the cheese and cream are brown and cling to the 
dish. 

Chester Cakes. 

i. lb. flour; 

i lb. butter ; 

\ lb. Parmesan cheese, grated ; 

A little cayenne pepper ; ■ 

A pinch of salt. 

Rub all together, and cut out with a tin cutter. 

Bake for 15 minutes. 

Tartelettes a la Sefton. 

Line the patty-pans with the above paste, and put 
in the following custard : — 

2 tablespoonsful of grated Parmesan cheese; 

3 yolks of eggs ; 

A pinch of cayenne pepper and salt. 
Bake from 15 to 20 minutes. 



252 TOASTED CHEESE. 

Nudeln au Parmesan. 

2 ozs. butter ; 

\\ ozs. flour ; 

A teacupful of milk ; 

A pinch of salt ; 

A few grains of cayenne pepper. 

Work together in a stewpan over the hot-plate till 
it makes a paste. Add three eggs and 4 ozs. grated 
Parmesan cheese ; drop it from a tablespoon into 
boiling water, and cook a quarter of an hour. 

Serve on a napkin, and hand round rich brown 
sauce in a tureen, or if to be eaten on a fast day send 
up without sauce. 

Toasted Cheese. 

Slice up some rich cheese and put it in a bain- 
marie saucepan with a little milk ; stir over the fire 
till it is dissolved ; add some butter and an <t^^ well 
beaten ; prepare slices of toast on a dish which fits 
over hot water, or a heater ; place the mixture on the 
toast, and let it brown before the fire. 

It must be served very hot. 

Stewed Cheese. 

2 tablespoonsful of grated cheese ; 
4 tablespoonsful of cream ; 
I tablespoon ful of butter ; 

I ^?.z ; 

A few grains of cayenne pepper. 



CHEESE SALAD. 253 

Let the butter dissolve in a bain-marie saucepan ; 
stir in the cream, then the cheese, lastly the ^gg well 
beaten. Simmer till the mixture is smooth ; send up 
on toast in a hot-water dish. 

Cheese Salad, or Mock Crab. 

(American Recipe.) 

\ lb. old cheese grated ; 

I hard-boiled ^gg ; 

I teaspoonful cayenne ; 

I „ salt ; 

I „ white sugar ; 

I „ made mustard ; 

I tablespoonful onion vinegar ; 

I „ salad oil. 

Rub the yolk of the Q.gg to a paste with the oil, 
adding in order the salt, pepper, sugar, and mustard, 
lastly the cheese. Work all well together before put- 
ting in the vinegar. Serve in a crab-shell. This 
mixture strongly resembles devilled crab, and should 
be eaten with biscuits and butter ; it is further im- 
proved if you add a cupful of cold minced chicken. 

Use none but the best and freshest olive salad oil 
(not sweet oil, falsely so called) in compounding your 
salad dressing. If you cannot obtain this, melted 
butter is the best substitute. 

Cheese Biscuits. 

Equal quantities of grated Parmesan cheese, butter, 
and flour, a little salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
to be mixed into a smooth paste ; cut into biscuits 



254 OMELETTES. 

about the size of a macaroon, and bake ; the colour to 
be a rich gold ; they are quite as good warmed the 
next day. 

Boiled Cheese. 

\ lb. mild cheese, Cheshire or other ; 
I gill cream ; 

A bit of bacon the size of a walnut ; 
A little pepper, and a very little salt. 

Cut the cheese very small, and let it melt in the 
cream over the fire, then stir in the yolk of one Q.^g. 

Serve on toast cut into squares or circles ; or in 
little china souffle cups, a slice of toast being laid 
at the bottom of each cup. The cups used must be 
of the smallest size made. 



Eggs.— Omelettes. 

There should be a small frying-pan kept entirely for 
omelettes and pancakes. It should never be washed, 
but wiped dry with clean paper or a cloth immediately 
after using. 

Take six or eight fresh eggs, break them, yolks 
and whites, into a basin, with a little salt and a spoon- 
ful of cold water. Beat them with a knife till they 
are thoroughly blended. Meanwhile the omelette pan 
must be on the stove with butter in it, and just before 
the butter boils, throw in the eggs ; just freeing the 
edges from the pan, so that they do not become frothy. 
When the eggs have nearly set, double the mixture 
up, so that it looks like an oval cushion. Let it take 
a golden colour, and dish up on an oval dish. Some 



EGGS. 255 

people like a rich but clear meat gravy sent up round 
the omelette — a taste not to be commended. Fine 
herbs chopped fine, truffles or mushrooms chopped, or 
kidneys may be mingled with the eggs before frying. 

Eggs on China (su?- h plat). 

A fireproof china dish is to be put on the stove 
with some butter in it ; as soon as the butter is melted, 
three or more eggs are to be carefully broken into 
the dish. A little care is needed so that each yolk may 
be surrounded with white. Let the eggs remain long 
enough for the white to set, but not for the volk to 
harden ; sprinkle slightly with salt and pepper. Send 
up in the same dish. 

Broken Eggs and Asparagus Points. 

Take eight yolks and four whites of eggs. Stir 
thoroughly, always turning in the same direction. 
Throw in cooked asparagus tips (or chopped truffles). 
Have a stewpan ready, with either butter or broth 
enough to prevent the eggs from burning, and cook 
them in it. These eggs must be of the consistency of 
porridge, not of soup. Serve in a deep dish with 
croutons round. 

Canapes of Egg. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, shell them, cut them 
lengthways, and take out the yolks, stir a large 
tablespoonful of flour quite smoothly into half a pint of 
water. Take three of the yolks, 4 ozs. fresh butter, 



256 EGGS. 

3 ozs. sardines, which must be washed, boned, and cut 
into small dice, and some parsley or chibbal chopped 
fine. Stir it without ceasing over the fire till it 
becomes a thick cream, taking care not to let it boil. 
Pour this while hot into a dish, upon which the whites 
of the eggs have been arranged. Pound the yolks 
of the three remaining eggs in a mortar with butter 
the size of a nut, and some salt. Rub it through a 
sieve over the whole, and serve. 



Eggs in Cases. 

The little china souffle cases are those intended 
for this dish. Butter the inside, and half fill with 
breadcrumbs which have been browned in butter, and 
which are seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped 
parsley. Break an ^gg into each case, and cook in 
the oven or in a bain-marie, with water, not higher 
than the rim of the cases. 

CEufs Brouilles k I'lndienne. 

Take one onion, chop it fine, fry it a light brown 
in I oz. of butter, add one tablespoonful of Yeatman's" 
curry powder. Stir over the fire five minutes, then 
take^it off to cool ; spread on the bottom of a sauce- 
pan 4 ozs. butter, six whole eggs, four tablespoonsful 
of cream ; then add the onion, pepper, salt. Stir it on 
the fire till it becomes of the consistency of soft 
mashed potatoes, and serve it with rice. 



EGGS A LA ST. JAMES. 257 



Curried Eggs. 

2 ozs. onions, chopped fine, fried in 
2 ozs. butter ; 

I tablespoonful curry powder ; 
I tablespoonful curry paste ; 
A little salt. 

Fry these together, then add half a pint of milk 
and a little cream. 

Let this sauce cook for a few minutes, and poach 
the eggs in it from five to ten minutes. 

Serve with rice, very hot. 



Eggs a la St. James. 

Take as many eggs as you have guests, and boil 
them hard in dariole moulds. The moulds must of 
course be large enough to hold the ^g^ when broken 
into it. When quite cold remove the ^gg from the 
mould. Slice off the white at one end, taking care to 
preserve the shape of the white, and scoop out the yolk. 
Mix this with some anchovy paste, and put back in the 
white. Coat the eggs with aspic jelly, stand thern on 
the dish with the uncut part upwards, and pour round 
the sauce, which is to be half mayonnaise (that is 
mayonnaise mixed with cream ), slightly coloured with 
the anchovy paste. A variety of the same dish is 
made by using chopped truffles instead of anchovy 
paste. 

S 



.258 BOMBAY TOAST. 



Scotch Woodcock. 

Boil two eggs hard, and chop up fine ; put into a 
saucepan two tablespoonsful of anchovy sauce, and a 
large lump of butter. When dissolved stir in the 
chopped eggs, and serve on small rounds of buttered 
toast neatly arranged on a napkin. 



Bombay Toast. 

A spoonful of butter is placed on a hot-water plate ; 
as it melts stir in two eggs, cayenne pepper, and 
essence of anchovy, with chopped capers. Spread on 
small rounds of buttered toast. Serve on a napkin as 
above. 

Anchovy Toast. 

Prepare slices of bread, cut either the shape of 
cutlets or round ; fry them in butter, and spread on 
them anchovy paste ; let the paste just sink into the 
toast ; serve on a dish under which there is hot water, 
or on a napkin ; this looks better, but defeats the end 
of serving hot. 



■fc> 



Anchovy Butter. 

Take six anchovies, those that are preserved in 
salt and water, wash them in several waters, if 
necessary lukewarm water, to get rid of all the salt. 
Remove the bones ; pound in a mortar ; pass through 



ANCHOVY BUTTER. 259 

a tamis, and work in with an equal weight of butter. 
Form into little balls : surround with watercress, and 
serve with pieces of toast in a toast-rack. 

Anchovy Butter No. 2. 

Take equal quantities of parsley leaves picked 
from the stalk and parboiled, of anchovies washed, 
boned, and pounded, and of fresh butter. Mix the 
ingredients thoroughly, and pass through a tamis. 
Form into balls. Ice them and serve with toast. 

Anchovy Allumettes. 

The anchovies used for this dish are to be those 
sold as ' anchovies in oil.' Dry them and cut into long 
thin strips ; roll each strip in paste, and fry. Let them 
drain on a sieve before the fire ; dress them two and 
two across each other on a napkin. Surround with 
fried parsley, and serve very hot. 

Anchovy Tartines. 

Cut round slices of French roll, or of bread, about 
three inches in diameter, and spread butter smoothly 
over them. 

Have a bottle of anchovies preserved in oil ; unroll 
and dry them, and cut into narrow strips ; lay these 
strips on the slices, so as to form an open trellis ; in 
each opening place yolk of eggs hard-boiled, white 
of eggs, and parsley or gherkins chopped very fine, 
so that the colours contrast. 

s 2 



26o ANCHOVY CUSHIONS. 

Arrange on a napkin on the dish, and send up 
with the cheese, or as a luncheon reHsh. 



Anchovy Cushions {cold). 

Prepare the bread as in the previous recipes, but 
let the rounds be rather larger. Have ready the fol- 
lowing garnishes : — 

Anchovies, chopped small ; 

Capers, chopped small ; 

Yolk of ^gg, hard-boiled and chopped ; 

White of ^^'g, hard-boiled and chopped. 

Arrange these garnishes on each round, so that 
there is one quarter of anchovy, one with capers, 
one of white, and one of yolk of ^gg ; or arrange 
in concentric circles. 

Cold Bread Patties. 

Take very small rolls, slice off the top, scoop out 
the crumb. Fill with minced chicken or fish, which 
has been set in cream sauce, hot, and allowed to cool ; 
trim the edge of the top, and put it on the patty. 
Dress on a napkin with garnish of watercress. 

Devilled Biscuits with Cheese. 

Butter the biscuits on both sides, and pepper them 
well. Rub up some cheese with made mustard, and 
lay on one side ; sprinkle a little salt and cayenne 
over the top, and let them be grilled. 



DEVILLED BISCUITS. 261 



Devilled Biscuit {plain) 

Is simply toasting the biscuit and buttering it while 
hot, then sprinkling cayenne pepper over it with a 
little salt. 

Another Devil. 

Mix \ an oz. of each of the following ingre- 
dients : — Curry powder, mustard, salt, cayenne pep- 
per, ginger, nutmeg, and grated lemon peel, ^ of an 
oz. of allspice and of black pepper. Bone and wash 
some anchovies, pound them in a mortar with butter, 
season with the above mixture, and spread on a 
biscuit fried in butter. 



Biscuits k la Russe. 

Make a dozen water biscuits 2^ inches in diameter, 
or use thin captain's biscuits of the same size. 

Chop up the solid part of slices of cucumber, 
parsley, or watercress, white of ^g^, yolk of ^g^ hard- 
boiled, and anchovies thoroughly dried from • their 
oil. Cover each biscuit with this mixture, reserving 
a small quantity of each ingredient to decorate the 
centre of the biscuit. Serve on a napkin, and garnish 
with a wreath of watercress leaves^ not sprigs, all 
round. 

Kitcherie. 

First steep half a pint of dry split peas in water. 
Add half a pint of picked and washed rice with a little 



262 SARDINES AU PARMESAN. 

ginger and salt ; boil till the peas and rice are swollen 
and tender ; stir the whole, and stir in a little butter. 
Strain off the water ; have ready some hard-boiled 
eggs cut in halves, and an onion or two sliced and 
fried in butter to garnish with, or else add some small 
boiled onions. The peas and rice should not be 
clammy. 

Fish Kitcherie. 

Take any cold fish, pick it carefully from the 
bones, mix with a teacupful of boiled rice, i oz. of 
butter, a teaspoonful of mustard, two soft-boiled eggs, 
salt and cayenne to taste, and serve very hot. The 
quantities may be varied according to the amount of 
fish used. 

Sardines au Parmesan. 

Take small sardines, or if too large split them ; but 
the small ones make a neater dish ; let the oil drain 
away ; remove the skin and the tip of the tail, and 
give them a thin coating of Parmesan, grated very 
fine. 

Prepare strips of toast a size larger than the sardine. 
Butter the surface, place the sardine on it, and put 
the whole in the oven to warm, taking care that the 
toast does not get too crisp. 



Sardines en Papillote. 

Scrape, dry, and bone the sardines. Fill them with 
cold brown sauce, chopped mushrooms, and fine herbs, 



MACARONI. 263 

and wrap in paper ; taking care to pinch over the ends 
of the paper, so that the sauce may not run out. 
Warm them through in the oven. 



Cheese Canapes. 

Cut into any form thin sHces of stale bread ; fry 
Hghtly in butter ; cover each canape (or cushion) 
with some grated Parmesan cheese which has been 
stirred with mustard and pepper ; set them before a 
hot fire till the cheese is dissolved. Dish up on a 
folded napkin ; serve hot, as all dishes in which there 
is cheese are ruined by being served tepid. 



Macaroni. 

The preliminary process is in all cases to break 
the macaroni into pieces of a moderate length, about 
two inches, and to stew it in salted boiling water for 
twenty minutes, or till it is tender, but not split open. 

It must then be allow^ed to drain, and as each piece 
has water in the inside of the tube, the draining 
must be very carefully attended to. In dressing 
macaroni it should be first boiled till tender, which 
is ascertained by trying if the paste breaks with its 
own weight. 

If a simple dish is desired, re-warm the macaroni 
with a small quantity of butter, which must not be 
allowed to do more than melt. Sprinkle some 
chopped parsley and serve hot. This is a useful 
breakfast dish. 



264 MACARONI AU GRATIN, 



Macaroni au Gratin. 



Have ready a cream sauce, to which add grated 
Parmesan and Gruyere cheese ; the proportion being 
\ lb. cheese to i lb. macaroni, and milk or cream 
sauce enough to dilute. Warm the macaroni in this 
mixture, and then pour the whole into a shallow dish, 
cither china which will stand the oven or metal. 
Strew the surface with breadcrumbs and grated cheese 
and a very little melted butter ; finish in the oven 
or before the fire ; send up in its own dish on a 
dish the same shape but just a size larger. 

White or cayenne pepper, according to taste, may 
be mixed in the sauce. 



Macaroni and Tomatoes. 

Make a puree with fresh tomatoes, or with toma- 
toes preserved in tins, adding a small quantity of 
onion. Dilute the puree with stock, and work in a 
pat of butter ; re-warm the macaroni in this mixture 
and serve in a deep dish with fried croutons round. 
Chopped ham or tongue may be added. 



Macaroni Timbale. 

Line a plain mould with paste. Fill it with 
macaroni prepared in sauce as before, adding small 
dice of chicken and tongue, or veal and tongue. 
Fasten the paste cover neatly and tightly on at the 



TAGLIARINI. 265 

edge, and bake in an oven for an hour. Serve on a 
napkin. The timbale will stand on what was the 
bottom of the mould, and the top must be scored 
round just inside the edge, so as to form a lid, which 
is lifted back when the spoon is inserted. 



Tagliarini. 

(Italian Recipe.) 

Make a paste of flour, water, and one or two eggs, 
according to the quantity required. When completely 
kneaded, roll it to the thickrjess of a wafer biscuit, 
and cut it into long strips a quarter of an inch wide, 
or into fancy shapes, with a paste-cutter. They are 
more delicate than macaroni, but are dressed in the 
same way, being boiled first and then, after being 
carefully drained of water, cooked with cheese and 
either butter or gravy. 



Celery Salad, or Salad a la Casanova. 

Cut the celery, which should be white and delicate, 
into lengths of about one inch. Cut up the white 
meat of a cooked chicken or pheasant into dice ; add 
truffles cut up, and tongue or ham. Place neatly in 
a dish, and mix with mayonnaise sauce which has 
been diluted with cream. Garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs, or aspic croutons. 

Fish may be used instead of meat, and truffles may 
be omitted. 



>66 RUSSIAN SALAD. 



Russian Salad. 



Take some carrots, potatoes, turnips, celery, French 
beans, olives, and a Portugal onion. Cut them in dif- 
ferent shapes to pieces about the size of a raisin, till 
you have about a pound of mixed vegetables ; boil 
them in water with a little salt, pour off the water, 
and sautes them slightly in fresh butter. 

Prepare a sauce by whipping the yolks of four 
eggs, to which add half a pint of the best olive oil 
and two teaspoonsful of mustard flour. Take a 
small quantity of spinach, pound it in a mortar, then 
pass it through a napkin, squeezing it hard. Add to 
the liquid thus obtained half a pint of water, and put 
it on a quick fire, but be careful to take it off as soon 
as it boils. Then pass it through a silk tamis, and 
mix with what remains in the tamis half a dozen 
biscuits without sugar which have been soaked for 
twenty-four hours in water. 

Then add a little butter, mix it well, and pass it 
through the tamis, mix well with the sauce described 
above, and add half a pint of cream. Add the 
vegetables and I oz. of liquid gelatine, and put the 
whole into a mould until the gelatine is set, when it 
will be ready to serve. 

Croustades aux Truffes. 

Cut a French roll into thick slices, and dig out 
some of the crumb so as to form a little patty case. 
Toast in the oven. 

Take | lb. fresh truffles — English if to be had. 



TURKISH RICE. 267 

Cut into large dice, and add J of the quantity of dark 
mushrooms. Simmer in very rich brown sauce ; fill 
the crusts with the truffles and mushrooms, and send 
up a sauce in which \ lb. of truffles and some mush- 
rooms have been mixed. It is to be noted that the 
mixture in the croustades is to be so thick that it will 
not run out, or over, and that the sauce sent up 
separately is to be of the consistency of sauce — much 
more liquid than the croustade mixture. 

Rice— Turkish Fashion. 

Put a quart of water in a saucepan ; when boiling 
throw in i lb. of rice which has been well washed 
and dried. Add a pinch of salt, and let it simmer till 
the rice has absorbed all the water. Then take \ lb. 
butter, and let it become liquid by putting in a jar 
and standing the jar in boiling water ; pour the liquid 
butter over the rice. Cover the saucepan and place a 
damp cloth over the cover. Keep it on the side of 
the hot-plate for half an hour. Serve in a deep dish, 
and do not put on a cover. 

If a more elaborate form is desired, have ready 
truffles cut into small bits, not much larger than a 
grain of rice when swelled, and mix in when you add 
the butter. This is called Rice a la Mustapha. Mush- 
rooms may be substituted for truffles. 

Rice k la Milanaise. 

36 ozs. rice ; 
10 ozs. butter ; 
5 ozs. beef suet. 



268 SAVOURY RICE. 

Simmer in broth ; then add 6 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 
and a pinch of saffron, with, if liked, some chopped 
tongue or scraped ham. 

Press in a mould which has a loose top, and serve 
very hot. 

Savoury Rice. 

A teacupful of rice, one onion cut up ; to be boiled 
in I pint stock, either fish stock or meat stock. Make 
a custard with half a pint of milk, and one ^gg, pepper, 
salt, chopped parsley, and a little chopped ham or 
tonofue. Bake in a slow oven. 

If this dish is intended for a ' fast ' day, the ham 
would be omitted, and fish substituted, such as Finnan 
haddock or salt fish. 



SAUCES, 269 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

SA UCES. 

Besides the flour, butter and juices of meat which 
constitute sauces, there are a variety of flavours which 
are imparted by herbs, vegetables and condiments. 
The proper blending of flavours and the judicious 
application of heat are necessary to the production of 
good sauces. 

A measuring glass, of the same kind as is used 
for medicines, ought to be found in every kitchen, 
and employed to regulate vinegar, wine, brandy and 
liqueurs, so that the due proportion of these flavours 
may not be exceeded. 

In liquid measurement : 

2 tablespoonsful= I fluid ounce, or i avoirdupois 

ounce ; 
20 fluid ounces = i imperial pint ; 
4 gills = I imperial pint. 
In measuring flour : 
I large tablespoonful = J oz. 

As tablespoons differ in size, they cannot be 
accepted as measuring accurately, and it is better 
always to weigh the quantity required for refined 
sauces. 



2/0 SA UCES. 

Eggs. 

Eggs must be broken neatly and carefully so as 
to separate the yolk from the white, and the yolks 
must be freed from the germ. In all cases when the 
yolk is used to thicken a sauce or soup, it must be 
stirred into a small quantity of the hot sauce or soup 
in a cup, and then this mixture is to be stirred into 
the larger quantity. 

Vinegar. 

What is called good strong kitchen vinegar may 
be used to clean coppers and to alleviate bruises and 
black eyes. It is not fit for sauces and salads. 
English vinegars are deficient in refinement of flavour. 
Really good vinegar is made with wine. A very 
small quantity goes a long way, and it is far better, 
therefore, always to buy French vinegar. 

When a very slight acid flavour is desirable, Chablis 
wine should be used. 

Lemon-juice varies in acidity according as the 
fruit is more or less ripe, and the quantity used must 
therefore follow^ the condition of the fruit. 

Maille vinegars are French vinegars flavoured with 
herbs or shallots. They are to be used sparingly ; 
but aspic jelly requires the flavour of one of the 
Maille vinegars. Tarragon vinegar, as made in Eng- 
land, is rather apt to overwhelm with its peculiar 
taste. Tarragon should not be boiled even when its 
flavour is desired in soup or sauce. 



SAUCES. 271 



Mustard. 



When it is desirable to put mustard in a sauce, as 
in Robert sauce for instance, mustard flour, that is 
unmade mustard, must always be used. Put a little 
of the sauce or stock in a cup, stir in the mustard 
flour, and then work in with the rest of the sauce. 
* Made mustard ' does not keep, and the true flavour 
is only obtained by using the flour. 

Egg sauce for salt fish is improved by some 
mustard flour beingr added. 



* Roux ' for Sauces. 

Sauces require to be thickened or bound together, 
and for this purpose either roux, arrowroot, potato 
flour, or eggs are used. Roux is to be made of a light 
colour for white sauces and of a dark colour for brown 
sauces. Put in a saucepan \ lb. butter and let it 
melt ; stir in four or five spoonsful of flour or of 
potato starch with a wooden spoon ; let it cool a 
little, and then mix in your gravy or stock, taking 
great care that it mixes smoothly. Place it on a 
distant part of the hot-plate, and let it simmer 
for one hour ; skim off the grease. Then put the 
saucepan on the warm part of the hot-plate, that it 
may ' reduce ' or boil down. Ascertain how much it 
reduces by letting it drop out of a spoon slowly. The 
sauce must not be too thick, or too thin, or too dark. 
Pass through a tamis, and use for mixing with flavour 
sauces. Let it be borne in mind that flour and water 



272 SA UCES. 

are not made savoury by butter alone, and that flour 
and water slightly cooked, and with a surface of butter, 
is not a sauce, but a nauseous substitute for sauce. 

A bouquet or bunch of fine herbs to give flavour 
consists of three or four leaves of parsley, a sprig of 
thyme, a shallot and two bay leaves tied together, so 
that the bunch of herbs can be taken out after the 
sauce has received their flavour. 

* Espagnole,' or Brown Sauce. 

Put i lb. of butter in a bain-marie, or milk sauce- 
pan, and let it melt ; stir in four tablespoonsful of 
flour which has been dried in the oven. Keep stirring 
with a wooden spoon till the mixture is a bright 
chestnut colour. Then add slowly broth enough to 
make a sauce the consistency of thin cream. Let it 
simmer for i^ hours, skim, and let it boil up, taking 
care that it does not stick to the sides or bottom. 
When the sauce is of the consistency of thick cream, 
pass it through a tamis, and put it in a jar ready for 
use. As a skin will form at the top, it is well to add 
a little bit of butter the last thing. 

White Sauce. 

Proceed as above, only keep your flour and butter 
white by adding a chopped shallot, which keeps it 
from turning ; and having your broth quite white, 
finish with some cream, or, if no cream can be had, 
a glass of white wine into which you have stirred a 
raw e:gg. 

Always warm in a bain-marie. 



SA UCES. 273 

White Sauce for Braising White Meats. 

Half a pound of fresh beef suet chopped fine, \ lb. 
of fat bacon, a bunch of fine herbs, an onion and a 
carrot or two, a little salt, a {&\y peppercorns, and the 
juice and pulp of a lemon. Stir on a slow fire, or on the 
gas stove, till the fatty matter is dissolved, taking care 
that the mixture does not turn brown. Pour in a 
moderate quantity of water, strain through a hair 
sieve, and use with flour, smoothly and slowly worked 
in, for braising calf's head, veal which is to come up 
white, rabbit, or chicken. 

To Brown Flour. 

Spread upon a tin plate, set upon the stove or in 
a very hot oven, and stir continually after it begins to 
colour until it is brown all through. 

Keep it always on hand. Make it at odd minutes, 
and put away in a glass jar covered closely. Shake 
up every few days to keep it light and prevent 



Boiled Flour for Sauces, &c. 

Take a pudding basin ; press in as much best 
flour as you can with a spoon and the knuckles, until 
it forms a compact mass. Tie a cloth over and boil 
for twelve hours. 

Remove the cloth, and let it stand in the basin 
till the next day. 

Take the skin from the top ; grate or roll the 
T 



274 SAUCES. 

mass until smooth. Pass through a strainer, and put 
in a covered jar for use. 

All flour used for thickening should be previously 
cooked either as above, or by baking for many hours. 

Melted Butter. 

Take 6 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of flour, a pinch of salt. 
Divide the butter into three parts. Work the flour 
into one part of the butter, add water, and stir round 
with a spoon till the butter is melted, always stirring 
the same way. When this is heated by a slow fire, 
stir in the second portion of the butter. When this 
is melted on the fire, take the pan off, and stir in the 
third portion of the butter near the fire, but not on it. 

Dutch Sauce. 

2 yolks of eggs. 

2 tablespoonsful of vinegar with a little salt and 
white pepper reduced to a teaspoonful by boiling. 

2 tablespoonsful of cold water. 

Stir on a slow fire with a wooden spoon for two 
or three minutes. 

Three ounces of butter ; divide into three parts ; 
stir in one part of the butter ; take off the fire. Then 
stir in the second part, and take off the fire ; then the 
third part. Finish with a spoonful of cold water. 

Black Butter. 

This is the special sauce for skate. 

Take \ lb. of butter and let it melt in the sauce- 



SAUCES. 275 

pan gradually ; then allow it to get quite hot and to 
become of a rich brown ; in another saucepan put 
three tablespoonsful of French vinegar, a pinch of 
salt and pepper ; let your butter cool, and pour 
through a strainer into the vinegar. Warm all together 
and serve in a sauce-boat. 



Fennel and Parsley Sauces. 

These sauces are merely butter sauce, into which 
chopped fennel or chopped parsley has been stirred, 
the last thing before putting into the sauce-boat 



Villeroi Sauce, 

This sauce may be made either with fish broth or 
meat broth. 

Make the usual roux with butter and flour. Let 
it be neither white nor brown, but of a yellow colour. 
Stir in the broth ; add a few mushrooms and herbs 
to flavour ; simmer for a quarter of an hour ; pass 
through a tamis. Reduce and thicken by stirring 
in the yolks of two or more eggs. The eggs must be 
added just before using the sauce ; the sauce being 
prepared long in advance. Care must be taken with 
all sauces in which eggs are used that the e^gg does 
not curdle, which it must do if cooked over a fierce 
fire. 

All entrees with which this sauce is used are 
described as ' a la Villeroi.' 



T2 



276 SA UCES. 



Sauce a la Poulette. 

Weigh 2 ozs. each of butter and flour (which has 
been dried, but not browned), and stir the flour and 
half the butter in a saucepan in the bain-marie, or a 
milk saucepan, for about three minutes ; then pour in 
slowly the requisite quantity of stock or broth to 
dilute the sauce ; let it stand off the fire for two 
minutes, and then mix in the yolks of two eggs which 
have been stirred, but not beaten. Just replace in 
the bain-marie, and at the last moment stir in the 
rest of the butter. This sauce is appropriate to 
dressed carrots (Dutch-horn), to lambs' feet or tails, 
to dressed fish, &c. 

A little chopped parsley or shallot may be put in 
this sauce if more flavour is desired. A very little 
pepper and salt, if the broth added does not contain 
those flavours. 



Sauce a la d'Uxelles. 

Chop up button mushrooms, shallots, chibbals, 
parsley, and bacon, fry in butter, but do not let 
them brown. Season with pepper and salt and a 
bay leaf ; add some pale sauce and simmer ; squeeze 
in a little lemon-juice, and, as a last thing, stir in one 
Qgg or more, according to quantity. Pour into a 
basin to cool, and use as coating to any dish of which 
the meat has to be wrapped in paper, or to be placed 
on silver skewers and fried in breadcrumbs. The 
entree is then described as a la cfUxelles. 



SA UCES. 277 

Sauce cl la Ste.-lVLenehould. 

Put some butter cut into little bits, so that it 
melts quickly, into a milk saucepan, and dredge in 
some dried flour. Dilute this with new milk, or milk 
and cream. Season with mushrooms, chibbals, pepper 
and salt ; stir and simmer ; pass it through a tamis ; 
put it again into the saucepan with either chopped 
parsley, or, if for pigs' feet, with chopped sage. 

Sauce Perigueux. 

This sauce can be made with ' Pelures de truffes,' 
which are much cheaper than truffles. 

Take them out of the tin ; stir them into some 
rich stock, and simmer in a stewpan with a wine-glass 
of sherry or Chablis. The simmering must be carried 
on till the raw taste of the truffles disappears. The 
sauce keeps two or three days, and can easily be 
warmed. 

Remoulade Sauce {hot). 

Take mushrooms and chibbals cut to the same 
size, chopped parsley and a touch of garlic, best ob- 
tained by cutting up the chibbals with a knife rubbed 
with garlic. Fry in salad oil ; then simmer in broth 
with enough Maille vinegar to give sharpness, but not 
to dominate the mushroom flavour. Before serving 
introduce a teaspoonful of mustard flour let it warm 
and mingle, but not boil. 



278 SA UCES. 



R^moulade Sauce {cold), 

Chibbals, capers, anchovies {i.e. anchovies preserved 
in oil), are to be chopped up with parsley, mustard, 
pepper and salt. Mix with salad oil, and lastly a 
teaspoonful or more of Maille vinegar. Take care 
that neither flavour is in excess. If garlic is liked, 
the taste may be given as in the preceding sauce. 

Czarina Sauce. 

Have a very rich brown sauce, and to this add 
sultana raisins, gherkins cut to the size of the raisins, 
and lemon-peel which has been parboiled and also 
cut to the same size. Season with black pepper, and 
simmer, stirring in at the last moment enough butter 
to give softness to the other ingredients. 

Fair Maid's Sauce. 

Simmer in pale broth 'a teacupful of breadcrumbs 
and an onion cut in slices. Take the white meat of 
a chicken or rabbit, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, 
salt, and white pepper, and pound in a mortar ; mix 
with the bread broth and pass through a tamis. If 
too thick, dilute with cream or new milk. Warm, but 
do not boil. 

Mirepoix Sauce. 

Mince a large onion ; 
„ a large carrot ; 
„ a piece of celery. 



SA UCES. 279 

Put in a stewpan with some trimmings of bacon, 
and fry in fat until the onions, &c., are a good colour. 
Then stir in a quart of broth and a large wine-glass 
of Chablis. Add fine herbs, mushroom trimmings, 
and the pulp of a lemon (take care to pick out the 
pips first). Reduce for half an hour, and pass the 
whole through a sieve or tamis. 

Bearnaise Sauce. 

Five yolks of eggs, I oz. of butter, a pinch of 
salt ; stir on a slow fire. When the eggs begin to 
thicken, take away from the fire and add another 
ounce of butter. Let it warm again, and again add 
I oz. of butter, some chopped parsley and fine herbs, 
and a teaspoonful of Maille vinegar. 

Robert Sauce. 

Chop into small dice two Portugal onions ; put 
them in a stewpan with some butter, and fry a very 
light brown. Have ready a pale brown sauce, and 
thicken it with mustard flour ; drain the onions from 
the butter and stir in the sauce, adding a very small 
quantity of French vinegar. Warm in the bain- 
marie, and serve with pork cutlets, either in the dish 
or in a sauce-boat. Do not use made mustard, but 
mustard .flour. 

Sauce for Fish Curry. 

Take some trimmings of the fish you are going 
to curry ; put them into a saucepan, add two large 



28o SAUCES. 

onions ; fry them a light brown ; i carrot, i head of 
celery, i leek, thyme, parsley, 3 bay leaves, i pint 
of water, I of milk ; boil thirty minutes, skim and 
strain through a silk sieve ; mix with 3 ozs. of butter, 
two tablespoonsful of flour, two of Yeatman's curry 
powder ; warm over the fire five minutes ; dilute with 
the fish broth ; keep it about the consistency of thick 
melted butter ; boil fifteen minutes. Take any of the 
kind of fish named below. Cut them in pieces, and 
cook them in the oven with the sauce over. Serve 
with a border of rice round, or on a plate separately. 

Turbot, salmon, soles, mullets, dory, skate, pike, 
gurnard oysters. 

Sauce a la Tar tare {cold). 

Three shallots, a little parsley. Tarragon and cher- 
vil, one chibbal, to be chopped very fine. 

Two teaspoonsful of mustard flour, three of salad 
oil, one of French vinegar, some salt and ground 
pepper, to be slowly and smoothly mixed in the sauce 
tureen. Then the herbs and onions to be stirred in. 
If the sauce on tasting is too sharp, a little more oil 
must be mingled. 

Sauce a la Matelote. 

Half a pint of broth, half a pint of Chablis, two 
bay leaves, a leaf or two of Tarragon, chervil, chibbal, 
pepper and salt, to be simmered till reduced to i pint. 
This sauce is to be used for fish which is directed to 
be cooked in a sauce a la matelote. The French 



SA UCES. 281 

recipes give a touch of garlic. English palates dislike 
the taste of garlic, and English cooks can rarely be 
trusted to use this accessory sparingly enough to 
render it admissible. 
• 

Brown Caper Sauce. 

Dry the capers, so that the coarse vinegar in which 
they are preserved does not cling about them. Cut 
each caper into four pieces, and mix them into good 
brown sauce. Simmer till the sauce is properly 
reduced, and serve with boiled fish or meat in a sauce 
tureen. 

White Caper Sauce. 

Dry the capers as in preceding recipe, and stir 
them in either with melted butter or Dutch sauce. 
Serve in a sauce tureen. 

Egg Sauce. 

Boil three eggs hard ; cut up both yolk and white 
into pieces about \ inch square, and stir them into a 
plain melted butter sauce. 

Cauliflower Sauce. 

(American Recipe.) 

I small cauliflower ; 

3 tablespoonsful of butter, cut in bits and 

rolled in flour ; 
I onion ; 
I small head of celery ; 



282 SAUCES. 

Mace, pepper, and salt ; 

I teacupful of water ; 

I teacupful of milk or cream. 

Boil the cauliflower in two waters, changing when 
about half done, and throwing away the first, reserve 
a teacupful of the last. Take out the cauliflower, 
drain and mince. Cook in another saucepan the 
onion and celery, mincing them when tender. Heat 
the reserved cupful of water again in a saucepan, add 
the milk. When warm put in tfie cauliflower and 
onion, the butter and seasoning, coating the butter 
thickly with flour. Boil until it thickens. 

This makes a good sauce for boiled corned beef 
and mutton. 

Horse-radish Sauce {cold). 

Take off the stringy outside of the root, and 
pound the inside. Mix with cream till it is a smooth 
paste ; add salt and either French vinegar, lemon- 
juice, or Chablis wine in the proportion of one table- 
spoonful of the acid to four of the cream. 

If the sauce is to be served hot, yolk of Qgg and 
water is to be used instead of cream, which is nearly 
sure to curdle. 

Chestnut Sauce. 

It is best to make this sauce from chestnut flour. 
If the sauce is to be white, veal broth and new milk 
must be used to make a pur^e, and dilute it to the 
state of sauce ; add salt ; if the sauce is to be brown 
omit the milk, and use brown stock and flavour with 



SAUCES. 283 

onion. The sauce must be passed through a hair 
sieve. It is to be served with turkey, chicken, or 
pheasant in place of bread sauce. 



Mayonnaise Sauce. 

To make this sauce it is necessary to have fresh 
but not newly laid eggs, the best olive oil and 
French vinegar or lemon juice. Only the yolk of the 
G.gg is used, and it must be freed from the germ. 
Pour a smallquantity of vinegar into a cup, or squeeze 
the lemon into a cup and use from this— a rule it 
would be well to observe whenever vinegar has to be 
used, as if it is poured in from the bottle too much is 
sure to be the result. 

Stir the yolks of one or two eggs, according to the 
quantity wanted, in a basin with a wooden spoon, in- 
troducing the oil drop by drop ; stir always one way, 
add a little pepper and salt, and finally a few drops 
of vinegar or lemon juice. In summer this sauce 
must be made in a cool place, and kept on ice. It 
must be of such consistency that the spoon can nearly 
stand upright in it. Each drop of oil must be stirred 
in, so as to disappear before fresh is added. 



Mayonnaise Sauce No. 2. 

The Qgg used must be quite fresh, but it must not 
be new laid ; about three days old is the age best for 
this and all culinary purposes. Separate the yolk 
from the white, &c., take out the germ, to which a 
sm^all particle of the white always adheres. The least 



284 'SA UCES. 

portion of white spoils this sauce. Put the yolk in a 
soup plate with a mustard-spoonful of made mustard, 
and a salt-spoonful of salt and of pepper. Mix well 
together with a fork, add the oil drop by drop, so that 
the quantity never exceeds your mixing process, which 
must go on slowly. Continue the dropping and 
mixing till the bulk of sauce is as large as you require 
for your dish. The last thing stir in a very small 
quantity of Tarragon or Maille vinegar. 

When the taste of onion or of garlic is liked, rub 
the soup plate with either onion or garlic before 
making the sauce, but do not put any in the sauce. 

In very hot weather, it is sometimes necessary to 
put the materials on ice, or the sauce will not ' come.' 
One ^^^ will make a very large quantity of oil into 
Mayonnaise sauce. 



Tartar Sauce. 

Proceed exactly as in the Mayonnaise sauce, and 
add to it a small quantity of mustard flour, a few 
shallots or miniature onion threads chopped very fine, 
and a very few capers chopped small. 

Onion threads are the ten days old leaves of onion 
seed, sown at frequent intervals of time, to be sent up 
with radishes, &c. The flavour is peculiarly delicate. 

Samphire chopped small can be also used to give 
piquancy to tartar sauce ; it must be washed from the 
pickling vinegar, or it will givit a strong taste. 



SAUCES. 285 



Soubise Sauce. 

Portugal onions must if possible be used. If or- 
dinaiy onions are used they must be blanched in 
boiling water. 

Peel, take out the small core, sautes in butter, 
taking care they do not get the least brown ; add 
enough milk to cover them, and simmer till quite 
tender. Pass through the tamis ; add a pinch of salt, 
and a pinch of sugar, and enough cream to make a 
thin puree ; warm in the bain-marie, and serve round 
cutlets or in a sauce tureen, as the occasion may 
require. 

Soubise Sauce No. 2. 

Peel and slice eight large onions. Put in a stew- 
pan with 2 ozs. butter, pepper and salt, and "cover the 
stewpan, and set on the hot-plate for the onions to 
dissolve but not to colour ; when quite soft add 4 ozs. 
flour, two freshly baked mealy potatoes, one pint 
stock, and ^ pint of cream. Stir over the fire for 
fifteen minutes, pass through a tamis or sieve, and 
keep hot in a bain-marie stewpan till wanted for the 
braised cutlets. 

The cutlets are trimmed, saiiic, so as to be 
brown on both sides, and then simmered in stock till 
tender, but not broken. Dish up in a circle, and sur- 
round with sauce, which also fills the centre of the 
cutlets. 



286 SAUCES. 



Purde of Mushroom Sauce. 

Take 2 lbs. of large mushrooms, of which the gills 
are turning from red to black, wash, drain, remove 
the stalk and skin, which will do for flavouring sauces. 
Put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and after 
a few minutes' slow cooking add some sauce to com- 
plete the cooking of the mushrooms ; this will take 
half an hour. Pass the whole through a tamis, and 
finish your puree with either cream or brown sauce 
according as the dish requires. For white entrees the 
puree should be dark (nearly black), as contrast of 
colour is desirable. Broken pieces of large mush- 
rooms are quite as good as whole mushrooms. Button 
mushrooms must be used when a garnish, not a puree, 
is to accompany an entree. 

Sauce a la Milanaise {white). 

Take some good cream sauce, not too thick, and 
stir in a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, let 
it melt into the sauce which must be of the consist- 
ency of double cream when finished. This is a good 
sauce with turbot ; it must be sent up very hot. 

Sauce a la Milanaise {brown). 

Take some brown sauce which has not been 
thickened, stir in a little mustard flour, and grated 
Parmesan cheese which will thicken it. This can also 
be sent up with boiled white fish, or with boiled 
mutton. 



SA UCES. 287 

Gooseberry Sauce. 

Take a pint of green gooseberries, remove the tops 
and stems, wash them, and stew for half an hour, or till 
quite tender, in just enough water for the stewing 
process to take place. When the gooseberries are 
soft, pass the pulp through a sieve, add sugar 
enough to give softness, but not to be perceived in 
the sauce. Mix in some butter and breadcrumbs, 
and pass again through the sieve. Let the sauce be 
the thickness of double cream. The pulp varies 
according to the state of the gooseberries, and bread- 
crumbs are added when the pulp would be otherwise 
too thin. 

This sauce is to be used with mackerel, and is 
also a substitute for apple and tomato sauce with roast 
pork. 

Apple Sauce. 

Pare, core, and quarter some good cooking apples 
and throw the quarters into a basin of cold water as 
you proceed. Have ready a milk saucepan, or a jar 
which will fit into a bain-marie. Let the apples stew 
in the jar or milk saucepan till tender. They require 
very little water, and if cider is to be had, use no water 
at all. Pass the pulp through a tamis, introduce sugar 
enough to correct the tartness of the apple, and butter 
to give mellowness. If the pulp is too thick, add 
some broth or white wine. Serve hot, and let the 
sauce be a rich golden brown, not white and raw- 
looking. 



288 SA UCES. 

Tomato Sauce. 

This sauce can be made from either fresh tomatoes, 
or tomatoes preserved in tins. It cannot be made 
from the mixture sold as tomato sauce. 

The tomatoes must be baked till they are tender, 
and then passed through a tamis. Have ready enough 
stock to make the puree of tomatoes into a sauce 
the consistency of cream. Warm in the bain-marie, 
and add a small lump of butter which must melt into 
the sauce, but not be boiled in it. 

It is better to serve tomato sauce in a sauce-boat, 
as it gets chilled if poured into a dish, and some palates 
do not like the flavour of tomatoes. 



Fumet of Game Sauce. 

Take two wild rabbits, two old partridges, and cut 
them up. Have ready onions, carrots, celery and 
button mushrooms, a bunch of fine herbs, and a bottle 
of Chablis. Let the whole simmer slowly till the 
flesh is off the bones, skim, take out the bones, add 
a pint of stock, and simmer for an hour or more. 
Pass through the tamis, and carefully remove any fat 
w^hen cold. Warm in a bain-marie. 

This sauce is particularly good with buttered eggs, 
or with quenelles. The white fillets of the rabbits 
and partridges may be taken out, and used for 
quenelles. 



SA UCES. 289 

Fumet of Game Sauce No. 2. 

Put in a stewpan the bones of a hare or rabbit, 
from which you may have taken the fillets, &c. for an 
entree, the carcass of partridge or pigeon, or any 
remnants of game, two or three onions sliced, a sprig 
of thyme, a glass of Chablis. Let the whole simmer 
a short time, taking care that the meat does not stick to 
the bottom of the stewpan. Then pour in broth, in 
proportion to your meat, and let it stew for thirty 
minutes. Pass through the tamis. If there is enough 
meat it may be pounded, and added to the sauce 
before passing through the tamis ; but if not, add two 
or three spoonsful of brown sauce (that is, sauce 
already made and thickened). Keep hot in the bain- 
marie, and use for cutlets, tendrons, &c. 



Bigarade Orange Sauce. 

Mix some clear veal broth, with double the quan- 
tity of thickened brown sauce, and let it reduce. 

Blanch the rind of two or three oranges, one to be 
Seville, and cut into thin fillets, scraping off the 
white lining ; squeeze the juice of the oranges, and 
take out the pips. 

The sauce must be passed through the tamis 
before the orange juice and fillets are stirred in. 

Then simmer the whole together for a short time 
and serve in a sauce-boat. 

This is the special sauce for wild duck. 
U 



29D SA UCES. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Put ten or twelve anchovies in a mortar, and pound 
them to a pulp ; pour a little water into the mortar, and 
shake it, put the pulp in a stewpan, let it stew over a 
slow fire, add a quarter of a drachm of Cayenne 
pepper, rub through a hair sieve, and mix with 
melted butter till quite smooth. 

Sage Sauce, and Mint Sauce 

Put a quarter of a pint of stock in a stewpan with 
a handful of chopped sage. Let it boil for five 
minutes ; add two shallots minced very fine ; pepper, 
salt, and a pinch of sugar (the taste of sugar must not 
be perceived), and two teaspoonsful of French vinegar. 
Warm the whole and serve with roast pork, or pork 
cutlets. 

By substituting mint for sage, the sauce is suitable 
to roast lamb. 

Bread Sauce. 

Cut up the crumb of white bread into thin slices. 
Steep in cold water with some peppercorns, and one 
small onion. Simmer till quite soft. Then beat into 
a nearly smooth paste. To this add \ lb. of fresh 
butter, and two tablespoonsful of cream. 

If no cream is used, milk must be substituted for 
water at the first. 



SAUCES. 291 

Oyster Sauce 

Oysters vary so much in size, it is not easy to lay 
down a rule as to the number of oysters required for 
each guest. But the rule may be laid down that the 
sauce is to contain such a quantity of oysters that 
each guest may have a fair share. 

The required number of oysters must be blanched 
in their own liquor, and then drained. They are in- 
corporated in a rich, cream-like white sauce, and just 
allowed to warm in that. 



Italian Sauce. 

I wine-glass of Chablis ^ Simmier till reduced to 
3 J wine-glasses of broth | half the quantity. 

Add mushrooms chopped fine ; 
Half the quantity of shallot ; 
Thyme, parsley ; 
Salt, pepper. 

Make a roux with flour and butter ; and stir for 
three minutes on the fire. Then stir in the above 
mixture, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, 
stirring slowly. 

To Purify Lard. 

Put the lard in a jar, and the jar in a saucepan of 
water till it is melted, then pour it into a basin of 
boiling water, and beat it well ; let it stand till cool, 
then remove the lard from the surface of the basin, 



292 SA UCES. 

the impurities remaining in the water. Melt it again 
in the jar and saucepan, and pour off into the vessel 
in which it is to be kept. 

To Clarify Suet. 

Cut the suet, which must be quite fresh, into 
shreds ; pick out the bits of skin ; put it in a jar in a 
saucepan of water ; melt and pour into the proper 
vessel. The suet must not be kept till it is tainted or 
musty, as the melting and washing will not remove 
taint. 

To Clarify Dripping. 

Put the dripping on the fire in a clean saucepan ; let 
it approach the boiling point, but not boil ; then pour 
it into a basin of boiling water ; stir with a wooden 
spoon ; let it cool, and then remove the dripping to 
a jar. Repeat the process if necessary to clear the 
dripping. 



GARNISHES AND ACCESSORIES. 293 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

GARNISHES AND ACCESSORIES TO ENTREES. 

Meat Stuffing. 

' Force ' meat, so called from the French word 'farce! 
is made thus : — 

\ lb. of lean veal, or of the back of a rabbit, or the 
breast of poultry uncooked, is to be cut up small and 
then pounded ; i lb. of the suet from the kidney of 
beef, or the fat of half-boiled bacon or ham, is to be 
cut up and pounded ; then mixed with the veal, and 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and fine herbs ; stir in an 
^g^. Mix so that the fat and lean meats are perfectly 
amalgamated. Then mix in another egg and half a 
wine-glass of water. Test the flavour by poaching a 
teaspoonful. 

Shallots, mushrooms, truffles, little bits of tongue, 
can be mixed in ; they improve both the taste and 
appearance of the stuffing. 



Stuffing for Fish. 

I lb. fine breadcrumbs ; 

12 ozs. beef suet, chopped fine ; 

I teaspoonful chopped thyme ; 



294 STUFFING. 

2 teaspoonsful chopped parsley ; 
Pepper, salt. 

Mix thoroughly, and then add the yolks of two eggs. 
Again mix thoroughly, and then add the white of one 



Stuffing for Turkey, Fillet of Veal, &c. 

Take equal weights of breadcrumbs and suet, some 
sweet herbs and lemon peel chopped very fine, chopped 
ham or tongue, or bacon which has been boiled. 
Season with pepper and salt (very little salt, if you 
have used ham, &c.) ; mix thoroughly ; bind with 
an Qgg or two which have been beaten together. 

Be sure to have the inside of the turkey, hare, or 
fowl perfectly clean and sweet before you put in the 
stuffing. A lump of charcoal should be put into the 
inside, and allowed to remain for a few hours to purify 
the parts. Hares which have been much shot require 
the utmost care. It is better to send the stuffing up 
as fried balls if there is any suspicion of the hare being 
'• high.' 



Stuffing for Rabbit. 

Boil two onions, mash, or cut up very small, add 
\ lb. of boiled fat bacon or pickled pork, some chopped 
fine herbs, some breadcrumbs, a little pepper, and the 
yolks of two eggs. Mix it into a paste ; wash and 
dry the inside of the rabbit thoroughly before stuffing. 



PROFITEROLLES. 295 



Another Stuffing for Turkey or Rabbit. 

Make a puree of chestnuts, season with pepper and 
salt and lemon peel cut very thin and into small dice ; 
mix in \ lb. fat bacon already boiled, and form a 
paste of the whole. 



Floating Garnish for Soups. 

Besides those vegetable garnishes for soup which 
are called Julienne, Xavier or Brunoise, a variety of 
other garnishes may be drawn from the kitchen garden 
— small branches of cauliflower, very small onions, 
celery stamped or cut into shapes, cardoons treated 
in the same \yay, lettuce, spinach, or sorrel leaves 
stamped to the size of a florin or of a sixpence. One 
or more kinds of vegetable may be used ; the vege- 
table must be cooked in a small quantity of clear 
soup, and then used as the floating garnish of the 
tureen full. 

Profiterolles for Soup. 

The paste is made in the same way as for sweet 
dishes, leaving out the sugar and orange-flower water. 
The quantity required is much smaller, as the paste is 
to be dropped on to the baking-tin about the size of a 
large pea ; they must be baked of a pale fawn colour. 
These little profiterolles, which are misnamed by cooks 
• prophet's rolls,' must be kept crisp, and only dropped 
into the clear soup at the moment of serving. 



296 FRIED PARSLEY. 



Custard for Soup. 

Prepare a red custard by mixing with the eggs 
and cream a little red carrot pulp, or tomato pulp. 

Prepare a green custard by using the expressed 
juice of spinach, or green asparagus ; and flavour with 
onion pulp a third portion of the custard. 

Pour the different colours into moulds or dishes, 
and let them cool ; then cut them into dice or wafers. 
These coloured custard dice should have a slight 
flavour of the vegetable juices, and should be firm, but 
not leathery ; they are to be warmed in a small quan- 
tity of the soup of which they are to be the floating 
garnish, and placed in the tureen. The rest of the 
soup is then poured over them. 

This soup is known as ' potage a la royale.' 

The custard may be used without any colouring, 
or a few drops of cochineal may be used to give 
colour. But this is pleasing the eye, not the palate. 



Fried Parsley. 

This garnish is frequently referred to as the ac- 
companiment of croquettes, rissoles, &c. The sprigs 
of parsley are washed, shaken dry, but not squeezed, 
and made crisp in butter nearly at the boil. The 
parsley must not lose its colour, which would be the 
case if the butter were at a higher temperature, nor 
become sodden and limp, as would happen if the tem- 
perature were lower. 

Parsley is also used as garnish without being 



HOMINY. 297 

fried ; and watercresses, washed in vinegar and water 
and shaken dry, are another form of garnish. 



Potatoes a la Duchesse. 

Boil, or bake, mash and pass through a tamis. Mix 
with cream, butter, or milk, and form into small balls, 
roll in breadcrumbs and ^g%, and fry a golden brown. 
Drain on a sieve. Do not dress these on the entree 
where gravy is used. 

Potatoes Fried. 

Cut raw potatoes into the shape of almonds, or 
lozenges, or circles ; wash and dry thoroughly. Fry 
in butter till of a slightly golden colour, drain, and use 
either to fill the centre or surround the sides of entrees 
of beef 

Hominy. 

Boil the hominy in water or milk ; season with 
onions, pepper, and salt. Form into balls, and proceed 
as for mashed potatoes ' a la Duchesse.' 

Onions. 

Take twelve onions the size of a walnut when 
skinned and trimmed. Put them in a stewpan with 
butter already melting, a pinch of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, and let them warm for a few minutes ; then pour 
in a teacupful of broth, and simmer till the broth is 
reduced to a glaze. The onion will be tender and 



298 GARNISH A LA FIAAXCIERE. 

slightly brown, and ready to garnish any dish for 
which onions are suitable. 



Mushrooms. 

Button mushrooms nearly of a size are to be used. 
Put them in a stewpan with butter, fine herbs, and 
chibbals, or onions when no larger than a pea. Warm 
for a few minutes, add a little flour and enough broth 
to moisten ; let them stew till no sauce remains ; 
make a liaison with yolk of Qgg and a squeeze of 
lemon, into which stir the mushrooms. Fry a round 
slice of bread if the centre of the dish is to be gar- 
nished, and dress on that. 



Olives. 

The large Spanish olive looks best. The stone must 
be got rid of by cutting with a sharp knife round and 
round, as in peeling an apple — with this difference, 
that in the case of the apple it is desired to cut the 
peel as thin as possible, and with the olive it is desired 
to cut the peel so that nothing shall be left on the 
stone, and to maintain the form of the olive b\' 
keeping the spiral rind unbroken. 

Stew very slowly in half stock, half Chablis wine. 
This garnish is always sent up with salmis of duck, and 
often with entrees of fillet of beef 



Garnish a la Financiere. 

Cocks' combs, cocks' kidneys, very small quenelles, 



ASPIC JELLY. 299 

sweetbreads cut to the size of grapes, button mush- 
rooms, are the materials for this garnish. 

The cocks' combs are generally bought in bottles. 

If taken from the bird, they must be so trimmed 
at the edges as to allow of the blood disgorging, and 
the little skin must be rubbed off with a cloth dipped 
in boiling water and salt. It takes about eight hours' 
soaking in cold water to disgorge the cocks' combs. 

They must be simmered in broth with lemon- 
juice and butter, till three-parts done, and then the 
other ingredients are to be added with a rich white 
sauce, and the cooking completed in this sauce. The 
garnish is used with a fricassee of chicken, or to 
fill a vol-au-vent. 

Egg Balls. 

Take four hard-boiled eggs, separate the yolks 
from the whites, pass them through a hair sieve, add 
one tablespoonful of curry pow^der, one of flour, four 
raw yolks, salt and pepper. Mix them into a stiff 
paste, and make them into small balls ; cook them in 
water, boiling for five minutes ; drain them on a 
cloth, and use for soups or entrees. 



Aspic Jelly. 

2 quarts filtered cold water ; 

6 ozs. gelatine ; 

\ pint French vinegar ; 

I onion ; 

I head celery ; 

I bay leaf ; 



30O 



ASPIC JELLY. 



A sprig of thyme ; 

30 peppercorns ; 

A little salt ; 

A very little cayenne pepper. 

Dissolve the gelatine in a small portion of the water, 
add the rest of the water, and set to simmer in a 
stewpan ; let it cool, and skim off any impurities ; 




CROUTONS OF ASPIC JELLY. 



have ready the whites and shells of four eggs ; whisk 
them in the jelly over a brisk fire till the eggs begin 
to coagulate ; pour on it then the juice of a lemon 
mixed with cold water and strained. Put the lid on 
the stewpan ; simmer for a short time ; strain through 
a jelly bag, and fill your garnishing mould, or pour 
into a shallow dish, and when cold cut into shapes 
and use as garnish. 



CROUTONS. 301 

Economical Aspic Jelly. 

Put a quart of white stock {i.e. made from veal or 
chicken) in a stewpan with 6 shallots, i bay leaf, a 
bunch of fine herbs, and 4 ozs. gelatine. Place on the 
fire, and stir till the gelatine is dissolved ; then re- 
move the stewpan, and let it cool ; whip the whites 
of three eggs, and put in with half a pint of cold water 
and a tablespoonful of IMaille vinegar. Mix this 
thoroughly with the jelly, and then put the stewpan 
on the fire, and let it come to the boil, and remain at 
the boil for ten minutes. Strain through a jelly bag 
or napkin, and pour into a border mould, or into a 
shallow dish to be cut into croutons, or to cool for any 
use. 

Sippets or Croutons. 

Croutons are pieces of stale bread shaped and fried 
in butter. Slices of bread are to be cut into dice, 
lozenges, triangles, squares, or any other shape, thrown 
into a frying-pan, in which butter has been heated, 
and fried a golden brown. They must be allowed to 
drain on a piece of paper on a sieve. If to be served 
with soup in the form of very small dice, they are 
dished up on a folded napkin. 

If to be put round mince or spinach, they are 
sometimes soldered to the dish with white of Qgg^ 
sometimes neatly stuck in. 

Simpler sippets are made by toasting bread, and 
cutting into shapes ; or by cutting into shapes and 
drying the shaped bread in the oven. 



3^2 CROUSTADES. 



Croustades. 

The bread should be Hght,firm, and compact ; a tin- 
baked loaf with an egg in the dough is best. 

Cut into diamonds or rounds ; fry a pale colour 
in butter. If for garnishing, the slices are about one- 
third thick when fried. If they are to contain mince 
or puree, they must cut so thick as to admit of the 
centre being cut out and a well or hollow left for the 
mince. 

If the croustades are to have grilled mushrooms 
or anchovies on them, the size of the croustade and 
its depth must be adjusted to each. 

Croustades No. 2. 

Cut some bread into slices as thick as a finger ; 
shape them as you like ; dip them in milk. Pile one 
upon another in a dish, and let them stand thus for 
half an hour ; then smear white of ^gg over them 
with a brush ; dent them down the middle with the 
back of a knife, and slanting strokes at the edges ; 
scatter flour over them ; fry them quickly in hot 
grease, and serve as an adjunct to the vegetables. 

Or, instead of frying them in grease, heat a little 
butter in the frying-pan ; lay the slices of bread in 
it ; do them to a light brown, and serve. 



Breadcrumbs. 

Breadcrumbs are used for a great number of dishes, 
both savoury and sweet, for frying fish and cutlets, for 



GLAZE. 



303 



stufting and garnish, and for all that is called ' au 
gratin.' 

Crumbs may be made either with the crust of 
bread grated and used dry, with the interior of a 
stale loaf crumbled and sifted and dried in the oven, 
or, instead of being simply dried, they may be slightly 
fried in butter, carefully drained, and then used either in 
little heaps round the dish in which roast larks, for 
instance, are served, or in a sauce tureen, as with 
grouse and other game. 

Glaze. 

As glaze made at home is much more delicate than 
that supplied at the grocer's, a small quantity should 
be made from time to time. 

Take a knuckle bone of veal, some of the shin 
bone of beef with a little 
meat on it, any bones of 
cooked meat and poultry, a 
ham bone and some rind of 
bacon, and simmer in water 
for twenty-four hours. Four 
pints of water are to be re- 
duced to one pint. The 
stock-pot must be very care- 
fully skimmed at intervals. 
A very little seasoning of pepper and salt only is re- 
quired, but the stock must be kept clean and clear. 
Strain through a hair sieve ; pour into a glaze pot 
or jam jar. Warm by placing this jar in a saucepan 
with water in it when used. 

This glaze will keep any length of time. 




GLAZE POT. 



304 YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

To Boil Rice. 

Take \ lb. of rice, wash it well in two waters, cold, 
and put the rice into a two-quart saucepan without 
a cover. Fill it three-quarters full of cold water, and 
boil it slowly on a moderate fire, stirring occasionally 
until the grains become done enough, which will be 
known by tasting, as well as by feeling them between 
the finger and thumb. If soft to the heart they are 
ready, which will take about twenty minutes. Now 
put in one tablespoonful of salt, stir up and take off 
immediately, and throw the whole into a colander or 
drainer for ten minutes, and allow the water to drain 
thoroughly off, and the rice to become free and dry. 

Patna rice is the cheapest and best ; soak it in 
water overnight. It requires less time to boil when 
soaked. The rice becomes lighter from the fact that 
the grains separate more readily. Put the rice on in 
plenty of cold water, stirring it from the bottom of the 
saucepan occasionally. When the grains separate at 
the ends and they appear to form the letter X, the 
rice will be cooked ; the time required is half an hour. 
When the rice is cooked, drain in a colander, and 
place it before the fire, stirring now and then with a 
fork. Then serve with the soup or dishes of curry. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

This excellent accompaniment to roast beef can 
only be well made when the joint is roasted, not 
baked, and the tin dish can stand under and receive 
the droppings from the beef 



BATTER. 305 

Make a good batter with three eggs, six table- 
spoonsful of flour, a pinch of salt, and enough miik to 
form the batter into a smooth consistent paste. Let 
the tin dish become coated with droppings from the 
meat ; pour in the batter, let it brown, and set at the 
top ; then turn so that both sides are done. Cut into 
square pieces, dress on a napkin, and hand round with 
the roast beef 

Baked Batter. 

2 eggs ; 

2 tablespoonsful of flour ; 

\ pint of milk ; 

Rather over \ ounce of butter ; 

A little salt. 

Beat it well and lightly, and bake for about half 
an hour in rather a quick oven. 

To make * toad in a hole ' use this batter, and 
put into it sausages cut in halves or small pieces of 
uncooked meat. 

Frying Batter. 

Put in a basin a quarter of a pound of flour, a small 
teaspoonful of best olive oil, a pinch of salt, a bit of 
butter the size of a walnut which has been melted in a 
little hot water, and mix together with one ^g^ ; let it 
stand an hour, beat two whites of ^gg to a snow, and 
carefully work them in. 

If the batter is intended for a sweet dish, omit the 
3alt and add a teaspoonful of brandy. The sweet 
batter so prepared is suitable for fritters. 

X 



3o6 SUET PUDDING, 

Suet Pudding and Dumpling. 

I lb. flour ; 

I lb. stale breadcrumbs ; 

\ lb. suet ; 

\ gill milk ; 

A little salt. 

The suet must be very carefully picked over, so 
as to get rid of skin and hard bits, and must be 
chopped very fine. 

Mix thoroughly, so that a smooth paste is the 
result. Have ready a well-floured pudding cloth, and 
make into a long roll or a ball, as may be preferred. 
Allow for the paste swelling when you tie up the 
pudding. Put on in boiling water, and boil for three 
hours. 

Suet dumplings are small portions of the above 
paste, the size of an ^g^, boiled in the same saucepan 
with boiled beef, and served with it. 

Pease Pudding. 

Soak a quart or smaller quantity of split peas for 
two hours. Tie up loosely in a clean cloth ; set on 
the fire in a saucepan of cold water, and boil for 
about two hours. Rub them through a sieve, mix in 
some butter or cream, an onion, and season with 
pepper and salt. 

Tie up in a well-floured pudding cloth as tight as 
possible this time, and boil for one hour. 

What is left of pease pudding will thicken and 
flavour as soup, any weak stock or broth. 



SANDWICHES. 307 

Herb Powder for Flavouring. 

\ lb. parsley ; 
\ lb. lemon-thyme ; 
\ lb. sweet marjoram ; 
\ lb. winter savory ; 
2 ozs. sweet basil ; 
2 ozs. lemon-peel ; 
6 bay leaves ; 
\ oz. celery seed. 

Gather the herbs before they flower on a dry day, in 
the afternoon. Remove the stalks, dry on white 
paper, dry the lemon-peel, pound the peel and celery 
seed separately, and then the herbs. Mix all together, 
pass through a fine strainer, and bottle. 



Sandwiches. 

Sandwiches may be made with either slices of 
bread and butter, of toast and butter, or of biscuits 
and butter for the outsides. 

Meat, or potted meat, fish, hard-boiled eggs, or 
grated cheese may be used as the lining to the two 
surfaces of bread, &c. Be careful that the slices of 
bread are of the same size and thickness ; choose 
bread of a close, uniform texture. 

Spread the inner surface of each slice with butter, 
and if suitable add a little mustard and salt. 

Chop the meat, ham and chicken, or tongue and 
veal, together ; or if only one kind of meat is used cut 
thin slices, and cover the buttered surface with them. 

X 2 



3o8 SANDWICHES. 

Lay the other piece of bread or biscuit on the meat, 
and press the whole tightly together. 

If fish Is used It must be chopped up small, and a 
little cream and pepper and salt mixed in before 
spreading. 

Cheese is to be grated, and for cheese sandwiches 
plain thin biscuits are always used. 

For sweet sandwiches use marmalade. 



VEGETABLES. 309 



CHAPTER XXV. 
VEGETABLES. 

As we are writing for English readers, and for Eng- 
lish dinner-tables, it may be as well to begin at once 
with the famous saying of the old cookery book, 
' First catch your hare.' The great thing is first to 
' catch ' your vegetable ; and sometimes this is more 
easily said than done, for the greengrocer's bill is 
a horror to think of, and vegetables in our ungenial 
climate are by no means what they are in France. 
They are often, if not actually hard and stringy, at 
all events very little nutritious, and in Scotland it 
may be noticed that the leaves of the spinach are as 
unsatisfactory as the radishes that have their eatable 
part in the earth. 

Vegetables grown for the London market are 
full in form and fibre, but they are apt to be 
bleached, and sometimes to taste of the manure of 
the garden, or of the baskets of the market gardener. 
Altogether, vegetables, whether raw or cooked, leave 
a good deal to be desired, and they will continue to 
do so till the unsavoury slovenliness of the English 
market-places is remedied, till there are more cloches 
used to protect the crops from our cold spring winds, 



3IO VEGETABLES. 

and till the cooking ceases to be left to the tender 
mercies of the kitchenmaids. 

Vegetables are notably among the things that are 
better managed in France ; and we may remark in 
passing, that the firm of MM. Vilmorin-Andrieux, of 
4, Quai de la Megisserie, Paris, supplies garden seeds 
of the very best quality. Their catalogues will 
introduce to the owners of rectory gardens and the 
like many articles of garden growth which would form 
a crood addition to the table, such as the indche salads, 
and the many excellent gourds which they advertise. 
This firm accepts payment in English stamps, to say 
nothing of a post-office order, and the tariff for the 
carriage or postage of seeds from Paris is very 
moderate. 

All vegetables have an effect on the chemistry of 
the body, so that we cannot speak too highly of their 
importance at table. We will mention a few of these 
matters first, and dispose of this aspect of the subject, 
so as not to seem to mix the pharmacopoeia with 
the kitchen. Asparagus is a strong diuretic, and 
forms part of the cure for rheumatic patients at 
such health resorts as Aix-les-Bains. Sorrel is 
cooling, and forms the staple of that soupe aux herbes 
which a French lady will order for herself after a 
long tiring journey. Carrots, as containing a quantity 
of sugar, are avoided by some people, while others 
complain of them as indigestible. With regard to 
the latter accusation, it may be remarked in passing 
that it is the yellow core of the carrot that is difficult 
of digestion — the outer, a red layer, is tender enough. 
In Savoy the peasants have recourse to an infusion 



VEGETABLES. 311 

of carrots as a specific for jaundice. The large sweet 
onion is very rich in those alkaHne elements which 
counteract the poison of rheumatic gout. If slowly 
stewed in weak broth, and eaten with a little Nepaul 
pepper, it will be found to be an admirable article of 
diet for patients of studious and sedentary habits. 
The stalks of cauliflower have the same sort of value, 
only too often the stalk of a cauliflower is so ill boiled 
and unpalatable that few persons would thank you 
for proposing to them to make part of their meal 
consist of so uninviting an article. Turnips in the 
same way are often thought to be indigestible, to be 
productive of flatulent misery, and better suited for 
cows and sheep than for delicate people. Yet here 
again the fault lies with the cook quite as much as 
with the root. The cook boils the turnip badly, and 
then pours some butter over it, and the eater of such a 
dish is sure to be the worse for it. Try a better way. 
Half boil your turnip, and then cut it in slices, like 
half-crowns. Butter a pie-dish, put in the slices, 
moisten with a little milk and weak broth, dust once 
with breadcrumbs and pepper and salt (adding a little 
cheese if you prefer it), and bake in the oven till it 
gains a bright golden brown. This dish, which is the 
Piedmontese fashion of eating turnips, is quite un- 
suited for the cows, and ought to be popular. 

What shall be said about our lettuces ? The 
plant has a slight narcotic action, of which a French 
old woman, like a French doctor, well knows the value, 
and when properly cooked it is really very easy of 
digestion. But in our country, though lettuces are duly 
grown in every garden, you often hear the remark, 



312 VEGETABLES. 

' I can't cat a salad ; ' and as few cooks know how to 
use the vegetable which has been refused in its raw 
state, the lettuces are all wasted, and so is the ground 
in which they were grown. 

Oh, the wilful waste and consequent woful want 
of our English tables and kitchens ! 

But enough said. Only, before speaking of some 
good dishes, we will add one word about pot herbs. 
Mint sauce has a strong hold on English affections ; 
but tarragon and chervil would be great additions to 
our cookery. As Izaak Walton returned thanks for 
the flavour of fishes, so we ought to value the flavour 
of these garden herbs. They might be to the cottage 
and the parsonage garden what truffles and mush- 
rooms are to the tables of the rich ; and a teaspoonful 
of chopped herbs added to an ^gg, and a pat of fresh 
butter, in a cupful of the liquid in which a fowl has 
been boiled, will be found to be an excellent soup for 
an invalid. It will not only please the taste, but will 
actually soothe some of the forms of dyspepsia. 

Washing Vegetables. 

All vegetables ought to be well washed first in 
salt and water. It is a good thing to turn the tap on 
them and let it run, or to dash them about in deep 
water by means of one of those wire baskets which 
in France are used either for boiling eggs or for 
washing vegetables. 

Potatoes, carrots, and turnips must also be brushed 
in cold water, and kept in cold water till they are 
cooked. 



CABBAGE, 313 

Cabbage, cauliflower, and lettuce must be relieved 
of the outer leaves, and placed in salt and water to 
get rid of caterpillars, &c. It is sometimes necessary 
to divide a cauliflower into several parts and examine 
each carefully to detect the caterpillars. 

The water in which cabbage has been boiled is 
nauseous in the extreme, and if any of it boils over 
or drops on the hot-plate, the whole house becomes 
aware of the accident. The water in which potatoes 
have been boiled is poisonous, and is only good for 
taking green fly off the rose bushes. On the other 
hand, the water in which peas, beans, lentils, or hari- 
cots have been boiled is very nourishing, and will 
make a good foundation for any soup. 

Cabbage. 

To get rid of the disagreeable smell of cabbages, 
put into the water a piece of breadcrumb tied in a 
fine white rag. Take care to throw this into the fire 
after it has been a quarter of an hour in the pot, as it 
will have become very unpleasant. 

The saucepan must be large, and \ oz. of salt is 
to be used to a gallon of water. The cabbage is to 
be cut in quarters and put in salt and water to clean 
from insects. Drain and shake, and then put in the 
saucepan of quite boiling water, cover for ten minutes, 
and keep on the boil, then take off the cover, thrust 
down the cabbage, place the saucepan where it will 
simmer instead of boil, and at the end of thirty to 
forty-five minutes the cabbage will be done. Strain 
in a colander, and press with a vegetable presser or 



314 CABBAGE. 

between plates, till no water remains in the cabbage. 
Serve on a strainer, or cut into squares and dress in a 
circle. Young cabbage and sprouts take from twenty 
to thirty minutes to cook. 



Ladies' Cabbage. 

(American Recipe.) 

Boil a firm white cabbage fifteen minutes, changing 
the water then for fresh from the boiling kettle. 
When tender, drain and set aside until perfectly cold. 
Chop fine, and add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful 
of butter, pepper, salt, and three tablespoonsful of rich 
milk or cream. Stir all well together, and bake in a 
buttered pudding dish until brown. Eat very hot. 

We can recommend this dish even to those Vv-ho are 
not fond of any of the ordinary preparations of cab- 
bage. It is digestible and palatable, more nearly 
resembling cauliflower in taste than its coarser and 



Rice and Cabbage Balls. 

(Italian Recipe.) 

The rice should be boiled with a little broth, and 
onions cut small and fried should be mixed well with 
the rice. Then fry the rice, adding a little water, so 
that it should not thicken too much. When cooked, 
add a little grated cheese and butter. 

Take some cabbage, separate the leaves, put them 
in hot water to half boil, then rinse them. Take 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 315 

each leaf separately, spread the rice thickly on it, 
and roll it up. When all are done in this way, 
take a stewpan with pieces of butter and some onions 
cut very finely, cook them well with a little water. 
Then place the balls of rice in the stewpan, and cook 
them until the cabbage is well done. When cooked, 
throw some grated cheese over them, and serve with 
tomato sauce. 



Brussels Sprouts* 

Remove the loose hanging leaves. Put the sprouts 
in a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt, and 
let them cook for fifteen minutes. Let them drain 
on a sieve. Meanwhile, have ready a stewpan with a 
bit of butter. Place the sprouts in this, and let them 
just turn a little brown. Arrange them in a pyramid 
in a deep dish ; dredge some flour, pepper, and salt 
into the butter, and a spoonful of broth, and pour this 
over the sprouts. Garnish with fried croutons. 



Turnip Tops. 

Turnip tops — that is, the green leaves of the 
turnip — are ver^^ good eating, and very wholesome. 
They may be dressed as cabbage or as spinach. 
When dressed as spinach take care to use only the 
leaves, not the stems, and proceed exactly as in 
dressing spinach. 

Cream is more delicate than butter, and if the dish 
is to be used on maigre days, the yolk of an ^^^ for 
every two guests may be stirred into the cream ; 



3i6 RED CABBAGE. 

sippets of toast must be placed round, or be stuck 
into the green mound. 



Red Cabbage. 

Slice the cabbage in thin transverse layers ; throw 
into a pan oi cold water, the outer leaves being first 
removed. 

Drain the shreds. Cut an onion in very thin 
slices and mix with the cabbage. Put in a stewpan 
some beef dripping, or some of the fat from cold 
stock, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and let it melt. 
Then put in the cabbage and onion, and cook slowly 
for from four to five hours. 

When the cabbage has soaked up the fat and is 
partly done, mix a teaspoonful of vinegar in half a 
teacupful of stock and pour in, and dredge in a very 
little flour. Simmer on till the cabbage has nearly 
absorbed the gravy. The stewpan must be a well- 
tinned one. 

Colcanon. 

Boil and drain tender cabbage, or greens cut in 
slices, omitting any tough stems if the cabbage is not 
young. Cut cold potatoes into small fragments ; mix 
with the cabbage ; season with pepper and salt, and 
fry in dripping or butter till some of the potato turns 
brown. Dish up in a heaped mound ; garnish with 
sippets of toast or with sausage balls. 



ARTICHOKES. 317 

Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Trim twelve artichokes. Put in a baking dish 
2 ozs. of butter or dripping, with salt and pepper; 
When melted, put in the artichokes, and roast for half 
an hour in the oven, or Dutch oven ; baste frequently, 
and roast quickly so that they become a rich brown. 
Serve in the same dish they are baked in. 

Jerusalem Artichokes au Gratin. 

Boil the artichokes in milk and water till they are 
tender enough to pass through a tamis. Stir in a 
little cream ; put the puree in a shallow china dish ; 
sprinkle the top with grated Parmesan cheese, and 
brown before the fire, as is done with ' Macaroni au 
gratin.' 

Jerusalem Artichoke Chips. 

Cut the artichokes in thin slices, as potatoes are 
cut for chips. Fry them in butter a golden brown. 
Place them on white paper before the fire to get rid 
of the butter, and send up on a napkin. 



Globe Artichokes. 

The commonplace w^ay of dressing green arti- 
chokes is to boil them in water. Let the water drain 
away, dish them up on a napkin, and send melted 
butter or Dutch sauce in a tureen, to be eaten with 
them. 



3i8 ARTICHOKES, 

Artichokes a la Barigoule. 

(Fonds d'artichauts.) 

Parboil the artichokes, one for each person. 
Strip the leaves off the artichokes, and take out the 
choke ; then stuff them with breadcrumbs, parsley, 
mushrooms, truffles, shallots, and any savoury meat, 
all chopped fine, and seasoned to taste. Line a stew- 
pan with bacon, ham, carrots, sweet herbs, and arrange 
the artichokes side by side upon them ; pour over all 
a glass of white wine (Chablis), and let them cook in 
the oven, the stewpan tightly covered, till quite 
tender ; strain the liquid remaining in the stewpan, 
add some baked flour, let it simmer, pass again 
through the strainer, and pour round (not over) the 
artichokes. 

Artichokes a I'ltalienne. 

Proceed as in the previous recipe, but make the 
stuffing of fried onion, chopped very small, browned 
breadcrumbs and scraped Parmesan cheese. Finish 
in the oven. 

Artichokes a la Holiandaise. 

Boil the artichokes, make a puree with the eatable 
part of the leaves, and use it to fill the bottoms. 
Put a little Dutch sauce on each, and surround the 
bottoms with some more of the sauce. 



ASPARAGUS. 319 

Mayonnaise of Artichokes. 

Proceed as before, let the artichokes get cold. 
Mask each bottom with mayonnaise sauce ; and 
sprinkle chopped parsley and capers, or grated tongue, 
over each. 

Cream of Artichokes. 

Parboil the artichokes, strip off the leaves and 
press out the eatable part of each leaf, remove the 
chokes from the bottoms, and pass through the tamis 
all the pulp thus obtained, season with salt and 
pepper ; and if the taste of onions is liked, add to the 
artichoke pulp a little onion pulp. Mix with double 
cream, and steam in a mould very slowly for about 
twenty minutes. Turn out of the mould, and serve 
with a cream sauce round. This is another of those 
dishes which may be called the vegetarian's dainty 
dishes. 

Asparagus. 

There are two kinds of asparagus, that which is 
green from tip to stem, and that which is green and 
purple at the tip, with a long white stem. The green 
kind takes much less time to boil ; ten to fifteen minutes 
may make it tender, whilst the other kind may re- 
quire as long as thirty minutes. The water in which 
asparagus is cooked must not only boil when the 
bundle of asparagus is put in, but must continue to 
boil the whole time. Salt in the proportion of I oz. 
to 2 quarts of water is to be put in. The bundle oi 



320 ASPARAGUS. 

asparagus must be even at the stems' end, so as to 
stand upright in the saucepan, the tips being an inch 
above the water. Care must be taken not to break 
off the tips at any stage, either in cleaning, boihng, 
or dishing up. The water must be allowed to drain 
before placing the asparagus on a bed of toasted 
bread the same length as the asparagus in an oval 
dish. 

. Asparagus is sold tied up in bundles with large 
stalks outside and small ones inside ; this makes it 
very difficult to cook evenly. The best plan is to 
take out the small stalks and use them as the floating 
garnish for soup, or as 'pointes d'asperge.' Dutch 
sauce should be sent up with boiled asparagus. 

Cold asparagus is an excellent dish, eaten with 
oil and vinegar, or with mayonnaise sauce. 



Sprue and Eggs. 

When asparagus is too long and thin to be served 
en brajtche, a very good dish is made with it thus : 

Cut into lengths of an inch ; boil till tender, but 
not too soft ; drain thoroughly. 

Take three or more eggs, according to the number 
of guests and the available sprue, beat yolks and 
whites separately, and add a little milk and butter, or, 
better still, some cream. Mix in the asparagus, just 
warm in a saucepan, and send up in a deep dish with 
a border of fried bread ; or send up on cushions of 
fried bread, as buttered eggs are sent up. 



BEANS. 321 

French, or Haricot Beans. 

This vegetable is particularly useful, because it can 
be eaten at three periods of its development. It can 
be grown as a forced vegetable very easily, and it 
bears perfectly the process of being preserved in a tin 
at two of these periods ; whilst in its third period it 
requires mere storage to be ready for cooking at any 
time. 

French Beans. 

When quite young and tender French beans are 
to be cut in the usual slices, cooked in boiling water, 
drained from the water, and a little piece of butter 
placed in the dish with them ; or if they are to be 
served as a dressed vegetable, after boiling and 
draining a ' Poulette sauce ' is to be mixed with 
them 

Flageolets. 

This is the second stage of French beans, i.e. 
when the pod is no longer eatable, and the bean 
inside is fit to be eaten as green peas are. The same 
mode of cooking as for green peas can be adopted. 
When the flageolets are canned, or preserved in 
tins, it is desirable to wash and dry them before 
cooking. 

Haricots. 

This is the third stage of the French bean : it 
has been allowed to complete its maturity, has been 
shelled and allowed to dry naturally. 

Y 



322 BEANS. 

Before cooking dry haricot beans, they must be 
steeped in water overnight, and put on in fresh cold 
water. The time required to make them tender de- 
pends on the more or less hard state in which they 
are. Those bought at shops may be more than one 
year old, or may be over-dried. It is well therefore 
to experiment on a few beans. If no experiment 
has been made and the beans prove to be not soft 
enough to receive the savoury part of their treatment, 
the judicious cook will not attempt to send them to 
table that day. 

Let it be clearly understood that the beans must 
be made quite tender by soaking and boiling. 

When quite tender the water is to be drained 
from them, and a little good dripping and flour, a 
pinch of salt, and a sprinkle of pepper are to be 
stirred in, and the beans are to be allowed to absorb 
the fat, and just assume a slight colour before 
serving. At the last moment, add some chopped or 
powdered parsley. 

Windsor Beans. 

When young and tender these beans are to be 
cooked in boiling water with a little salt, drained and 
dried in a cloth, and served with parsley and butter 
stirred in, or with a rich parsley and butter sauce 
handed round. 

When old, these beans must have the tough 
outer skin removed ; and then they must be warmed 
again with a sauce, or made into a thick puree for 
garnishing a dish of cutlets. 



CA ULIFLO WER. 323 

It is usual to send up boiled bacon or pig's 
face with Windsor beans. 



Lentils. 

If fresh, cook them in boiling water and proceed 
as for peas or beans. 

If dry, soak ; and cook in cold water as haricot 
beans. 

Cauliflower. 

For this vegetable, as for asparagus, the water 
ought to be not only hot but boiling ; and both salt 
and butter should be added to it while it continues to 
boil. By paying attention to this rule, and by strain- 
ing quickly, you may avoid the sodden brcken-up 
heap which is often served as cauliflower. The stalk 
ought to be cut across twice, thus, x , so as to allow 
it to cook as quickly as the flowers. 



Cauliflower au Gratin. 

This is a popular dish, but English cooks seldom 
prepare it successfully. To dress this vegetable well 
it ought to be first thoroughly washed, have a cross x 
cut in its thick stalk, and then be cooked in perfectly 
boiling water. Let the head drain, then put it neatly 
in a dish that will stand the oven, and dust it with 
grated cheese. Make a white sauce of milk and 
stock, and get it pretty thick ; stir in grated cheese, 
and when it is smooth mask the cauliflower with it. 
Add breadcrumbs all over the sauce, and put the dish 



324 CELERY. 

in the oven, till the whole has got a bright golden 
brown, and serve. 



Scalloped Cauliflower. 

Boil until tender, clip into neat clusters, and pack, 
the stems downwards, in a buttered pudding dish. 
Beat up a cupful of breadcrumbs to a soft paste 
with two tablespoonsful of melted butter, and three 
of cream or milk ; season with pepper and salt, bind 
with a beaten ^gg^ and with this cover the cauliflower. 
Cover the dish closely and bake six minutes in a 
quick oven ; brown in five minutes more, and serve 
very hot in the dish in which it was baked. 

Celery a TEspagnole. 

Select celery which is well grown and not woolly 
inside ; cut it into lengths of six inches, and blanch 
in boiling water. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon ; 
place the celery on these ; mix together four table- 
spoonsful of 'espagnole' and the same quantity of 
broth. Simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Place 
the celery in the proper dish, remove the grease from 
the sauce, and pour it round the celery. 

Turnip-rooted Celery. 

(Celeri rave.) 

This is a kind of celery particularly suited to 
stewing. Care must be taken to wash thoroughly, 
so as to get rid of any earthy matter which adheres 



CARDOONS. 325 

to the celery ; the leaves are to be cut off about an 
inch from the root, and when the root has become 
large, as it does by midwinter, it may be necessary 
to divide it into quarters. It is to be blanched in 
boiling water, which is salted. Then let it drain till 
no more liquid runs away. Simm.er in a rich sauce, 
allowing the sauce to reduce with the celery in it, 
dress neatly in a deep dish and send up the sauce 
round it. As in the case of cardoons, the sauce must 
be of the consistency of cream. 

As turnip-rooted celery is not much cultivated in 
England, it may be useful to add, that it is sown and 
grown like the more common kind of celery, but it 
does not require to be earthed up, and it is less liable 
to suffer from frost. It can be used as early as 
October. 

Cardoons. 

This excellent vegetable is little known in England.^ 
The Spanish cardoon is the best sort to grow. 
The stem of the leaf is the part eaten. It must be 
white, firm, and as thick as a finger when dressed. 
The inferior kind shrinks to the size of a pencil, and 
is stringy. 

Remove the green and thready coating, cut into 
lengths of about five inches, blanch in water and 
lemon-juice, stew for three or four hours in white 
sauce. When they are quite tender take them out of 
this sauce and drain thoroughly. Place them in a 

' The best way to grow cardoons is to plant them in a trench, and 
bank them up like celery. The stalks must be blanched before they 
are fit to eat. 



326 VEGETABLE MARROW. 

stewpan with rich brown sauce, almost in the state 
called half-glaze, and let them warm through. Garnish 
with croutons of bread filled with marrow. Cardoons 
or celery which have been braised are very suitable 
for beignets ; the process is the same as that for 
apple beignets, salt being substituted for sugar. 

Vegetable Marrow. 

Do not boil vegetable marrow. If it is to be 
eaten plain, cut in sections, remove the rind and seed ; 
bake in the oven ; baste with butter or dripping, and 
sprinkle a little parsley over before serving, or pour 
Dutch sauce over and around, or a Mayonnaise sauce. 

Vegetable Marrow au Gratin. 

Bake ; pass through a tamis ; add a little cream ; 
put in a shallow dish ; spread Parmesan cheese 
scraped fine on the top and breadcrumbs, and finish 
in the oven as macaroni. 



Vegetable Marrow or Aubergine a la 
Provencale. 

Cut each vegetable into two parts ; scoop out the 
seeds ; sprinkle a little salt upon it, and let it stand 
to drain away the water. Yry them in oil. 

Have ready a stuffing composed of breadcrumbs, 
parsley, onions, and oil ; season with pepper and salt. 
Fill each half of the marrow with this, and set it to 
brown in the oven. 



SALSIFY. 327 

Salsify or Mock Oysters. 

(American Recipe.) 

Scrape the roots thoroughly, and lay in cold water 
ten or fifteen minutes. Boil whole until tender ; 
drain, and when cold mash with a wooden spoon to 
a smooth paste, picking out all the fibres. Moisten 
with a little milk ; add a tablespoonful of butter, and 
an ^^% and a half for every cupful of salsify. Beat 
the eggs light. Make into round cakes, dredge with 
flour, and fry brown. Salsify when thus prepared 
may be sent up ' au gratin ' in a fire-proof china dish, 
or in scallop shells to imitate oysters. The bread- 
crumbs on the top must be browned and steeped in 
butter. 

Salsify Fried. 

Treat the salsify in the usual way as regards 
steeping and boiling, cut into lengths of 3 inches, and if 
the salsify is very large into shorter pieces, but what- 
ever the length may be the pieces should be of the 
same size. Dip in breadcrumbs and ^%%y and fry 
a golden brown, or coat with batter and fry. 

It is to be remembered that the salsify must be 
thoroughly cooked by the boiling process ; frying 
cooks the outside, but if the inside is not already 
tender, frying does not alter that. 

Salsify may be cut into rounds and warmed in a 
poulette or bechamel sauce. 



328 CUCUMBER. 



Cucumbers and Beef Marrow. 

Select some young cucumbers ; take off the rind, 
and cut off the two ends. Cut them into sHces about 
I \ inches thick ; blanch them in hot water. 

Have ready a stuffing made of breadcrumbs, 
parsley, and beef marrow. Scoop out the slices of 
cucumber and fill them with this stuffing. Place 
some thin slices of bacon on a china dish which will 
bear the oven ; arrange the cucumber neatly upon it ; 
pour in a little very good sauce, and let them cook 
slowly in the oven. Drain them, and serve with that 
sauce which is called half-glaze. 



Kohlrabi Steamed. 

Peel some young kohlrabi and cut into thin slices. 
Steam them slowly till soft with some gravy and a 
small piece of butter. Meanwhile mix a small table- 
spoonful of flour in melted butter, and stir this into 
gravy till quite smooth ; season to taste ; boil it up 
and pour through a sieve over the kohlrabi, which 
should now be quite soft in this sauce. They must 
be covered while boiling in order to keep perfectly 
white. A dessert-spoonful of sugar is boiled with 
them. 

Mashed Kohlrabi. 

Cut the kohlrabi in slices ; boil in salt and water : 
drain ; mash with a fork, and then pass through a 
tamis. Season with pepper and salt ; stir in cream 



KOHLRABI. 329 

or butter and milk ; arrange in a heaped-up mass ; 
garnish with fried or toasted croutons, or with balls of 
sausage-meat, or with egg-balls. 



Kohlrabi au Gratin. 

Select a young kohlrabi ; pare it, and cut in thin 
slices. Simmer it in salt and water till quite tender. 
As this takes a long time, which can only be deter- 
mined by experience, put it on in the morning. 
Take it off the fire when tender, and let all the water 
drain away. 

Take a china dish which will bear the fire ; coat 
it with butter and browned breadcrumbs, then put a 
layer of the sliced kohlrabi, with a little cream, then 
a layer of forcemeat, then another of kohlrabi. Mix 
some broth and cream, and pour in a small quantity. 
Strew the surface with fried breadcrumbs ; finish the 
dish in the oven, and before the fire. 

Lettuce in Stock {an jus). 

The lettuces must be well cleaned and steeped in 
cold water ; cut all to one length, and tie lightly 
together. Put them in a buttered pan ; cover them 
with a buttered paper ; put a piece of onion and a 
bay leaf in beside them, and feed them Vv^ith broth 
till they soften and swell. They require two hours 
slow feeding and cooking between two fires. 

Take them out, untie the bundle, and serve with 
a little fresh bright stock or with a white sauce. 



ENDIVE. 



Stewed Lettuce, 

Parboil ; strain, and let all the water run away. 
Fry in butter till the lettuces look' a russet colour. 
Serve with a rich gravy or an ^g% and cream sauce. 

A little salt and pepper must not be forgotten. 

Dressed Endive. 

Pick off all the outer leaves, leaving only the 
white. Trim the roots and wash the endive in several 
waters, carefully removing any insects concealed in 
the folds of the leaves. Put a large stewpan half full 
of water on the fire. When the water boils throw in 
the endive with a handful of salt ; let the endive con- 
tinue to boil until quite tender. Drain in a colander, 
and also squeeze till all the water is got rid of Take 
each head of endive and cut off the root ; again look 
through the leaves for insects (spreading each leaf 
out with the point of a knife). Chop the leaves small, 
and pass through a coarse wire sieve. Put them in a 
stewpan with 2 ozs. of butter, a pinch of salt, and 
stir over the fire for ten minutes ; add half a gill of 
cream, a tablespoonful of white sauce, and a dessert- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Let the whole sim- 
mer till it is thick enough to bear being put in a 
heap. Garnish with fried croutons, and serve very 
hot. 



MUSHROOMS. 331 



Mushrooms. 

The mode of cooking mushrooms must depend on 
the age and size of the mushroom. Mushrooms grown 
wild have a far more deHcate flavour than those 
grown from spawn in mushroom houses and in 
cellars. 



Button Mushrooms. 

These must be chosen of the same size ; they 
must be skinned and trimmed, and the trimmings can 
be used to flavour gravies. 

Put in a stewpan or bain-marie pan some cream 
and a little broth, and dredge in a little flour which 
has been dried. Stir this till it is a smooth sauce ; 
stew the mushrooms in it till they are tender. Serve 
in a deep dish with sippets of fried bread. If the 
sauce is too thin, take out the mushrooms and keep 
warm whilst the sauce reduces to the proper con- 
sistency. 

Large Mushrooms. 

When the mushrooms are large and the gills are 
black, the best way is to sprinkle them with pepper 
and salt, to grill them on both sides, and to serve on 
toast. 

Some mushrooms are best stewed for a quarter 
of an hour in white sauce, with a squeeze of lemon. 
As mushrooms yield a good deal of liquid, the sauce 
must be allowed to reduce after the mushrooms are 



332 TRUFFLES. 

cooked, and yolk of Qgg may be stirred in the sauce. 
Serve with croutons of fried bread round or on little 
cushions of fried bread. 



Truffles. 

Truffles may be used as an accessory to savoury 
dishes ; as an ingredient in forcemeat and sauces ; as 
a garnish or as a vegetable. In the latter case they 
are called ' Truffes a la serviette,' or * Truffles in a 
napkin.' 

Truffles must be of good quality and with a fresh 
flavour. They are always very costly, and if intended 
to be a dish by itself, truffles must be of the first 
quality. 

Soak them in cold water ; scrub with a brush, 
and do not pare them, but cleanse in more water 
and again use a brush. Boil in a mixture of half 
champagne, half veal broth ; for an hour or an hour 
and a half Drain them, and serve in a heap in a 
napkin. Save the sauce in which they have been 
boiled for gravies and sauces. 

A very useful and less costly flavour for sauces 
can be obtained from ' Pelures de Truffes,' sold in 
tins in Paris. 

Onions. 

Before using a sweet onion cut off a slice at the 
head, and another at the root. The addition of a 
little white wine to the stock (such as Chablis) 



ONIONS. 333 

makes the taste of a stewed onion much more 
delicate. 

Baked Onions. 

The large Spanish or Bermuda onions are the 
only kinds which are usually baked. Wash clean, but 
do not remove the skins. Boil for an hour — the water 
should be boiling when they are put in, and slightly 
salted. Change it twice during this time, always re- 
plenishing w^ith more, boiling hot. Turn off the water, 
take the onions out and lay upon a cloth, that all the 
moisture may be absorbed or evaporate. Roll each 
in a round piece of buttered tissue paper, twisting it 
at the top to keep it closed, and bake in a slow oven for 
nearly an hour. When tender all through, peel them, 
put them into a deep dish, and brown slightly, basting 
freely with butter. This will take ^perhaps a quarter 
of an hour more. Serve in a vegetable dish, and poui 
over the melted butter, when you have sprinkled with 
pepper and salt. 

Glazed Onions. 

Remove the outer skin of the onions, put them in 
a stewpan in which some butter is dissolved, with 
some sugar, salt, and a small quantity of stock; 
let them simmer in this till tender all through, and 
brown on the outside ; if required, a little fresh hot 
stock may be added while the simmering goes on. 
The onions must be of the same size, and not too 
large, or the inside will not be properly done. If the 



334 LEEKS. 

onions are for garnishing-, they must absorb all the 
stock ; but if they are to form a separate dish, there 
must be a larger quantity of stock. The onions 
must be taken out and kept warm, whilst brown 
flour is stirred into the sauce, and simmered for 
a short time. This sauce is sent up round the 
onions. 

Onions a la Poulette. 

Take small white onions of the same size, boil 
them, with a little salt in the water ; when tender take 
them out, and drain thoroughly. Prepare a poulette 
sauce, or a cream sauce, and warm the onions in 
this. 

Stewed Leeks. 

Remove the coarser leaves from the leeks, cut 
them to convenient lengths of about four inches, 
wash them, blanch in boiling water, take out, drain, 
and blanch a second time in water with a little salt, 
drain thoroughly. Then simmer in good sauce, taking 
care there is not too much at first ; it is easy to add 
more liquid, but if too much is used at first a watery 
dish is the result. If meat flavour is not desired, the 
sauce must be made with cream, or with milk and 
eggs. 

To Boil Potatoes. 

Wash and brush in cold water; if absolutely 
necessary remove the eyes and rough parts, but 



POTATOES. 335 

young potatoes need never be touched with the 
knife. 

Place the potatoes in a saucepan of boihng water 
and let them cook slowly for from twenty to thirty- 
five minutes. 

When quite tender pour away all the water, cover 
the saucepan with a folded cloth, and allow them to 
evaporate on the hot plate for about ten minutes. 

If the skin is to be taken off, this can be done 
before the evaporation process ; but, skin or no skin, 
always let the evaporation take place either in the 
saucepan, in the oven, or before the fire. 

Very mealy potatoes must be put on in cold 
water, as otherwise the outside is done before the 
middle. 

New Potatoes. 

These should be dug up as short a time as possible 
before cooking. Wash and brush. 

Put on in boiling water with \ oz. of salt to the 
gallon of water. Boil till tender, that is, for about a 
quarter of an hour. Strain off the water and let them 
evaporate for a few minutes. Fold a napkin in a 
wooden bowl, and serve the potatoes very hot, but do 
not cover. 

Old Potatoes. 

Peel, and remove eyes and specks ; or if in good 
condition wash, brush, and throw into cold water. 
Proceed to cook as above, but do not let the water 
' gallop,' or the outside will be a jelly, the inside a stone. 



336 POTATOES. 

Twenty to thirty minutes will be required. Pour away 
the water, cover the saucepan with a cloth, and let the 
evaporation go on for five or ten minutes. 



Potato Balls. 

Bake in their skins some sound round potatoes. 
Remove the skins, mash the potato, mix with cream 
or milk till a firmish paste is formed, season with 
eggs, salt, pepper, chopped herbs, and a shallot. Take 
three eggs (more or less according to quantity 
required), beat yolks and whites separately, stir in 
the yolks first. 

Drop the paste out of a dessert-spoon into boiling 
fat, and fry ; or if preferred coat with breadcrumbs 
and Qgg before frying. 

If a sweet dish is desired, omit the savoury in- 
gredients, use lemon peel, cut in the smallest frag- 
ments, and put sugar instead of salt. 



Savoury Potatoes. 

Take six potatoes with skins in a sound condi- 
tion, clean thoroughly. Bake till the inside is tender, 
but the skin not blistered. Cut off a slice from the end 
of each potato, and scoop out the meal. Mash till 
quite smooth with cream or butter, pepper and salt, 
and a very little Parmesan cheese ; lastly, stir in the 
yolk and white of an ^g<g well beaten, and warm in a 
saucepan. Fill the potato skins, put them in the oven 
for a minute or two ; the mixture ought to form a 



POTATOES. 337 

sort of * head ' to the brown skin ; place on a napkin 
on a round dish, and send up to be eaten by them- 
selves. 

If the potato skins are not good, the mixture 
may be put into little china souffle cases. 

This is a good maigre dish, and fish, even 
bloater carefully chopped up, may be mixed in. 



Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Take cold potatoes which have not been over- 
cooked, and cut them in slices about three-eighths of 
an inch thick, and of nearly the same size ; put them 
in a stewpan with butter or cream, chopped parsley, 
chopped shallot if liked ; salt and pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful or less of vinegar. Let them warm through, 
and serve in a deep dish. 



Potato Puff. 

(American Recipe.) 

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potato, and stir 
into it two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beating 
to a white cream before adding anything else. Then 
put with this two eggs whipped very light, and a tea- 
cupful of cream or milk, salting to taste. Beat all 
well, pour into a deep dish, and bake in a quick oven 
until it is nicely browned. If properly mixed, it will 
come out of the oven light, puffy and delectable. 

Z 



13^ PEAS. 



Potato Chips. 

Cut raw potatoes in slices, the thickness should 
be one-sixth of an inch ; melt some well-clarified beef 
dripping or kidney fat in the frying-pan ; when very 
hot put in the potatoes and fry for about six minutes, 
stirring and tossing them so that they do not stick 
together. When they are soft take them out with a 
skimmer and let them drain on a wire sieve whilst 
the fat gets to boiling point ; return the potatoes and 
fry for three or four minutes longer, place them on 
paper before the fire till they are dry, sprinkle a little 
salt on them and serve. 

The second frying causes the slices of potato to 
swell as if they were hollow. The proper colour is a 
rich golden hue, not a dark tint. The potato must 
be cooked all through. 

Peas. 

Young green peas require from twenty minutes to 
half an hour. The best way is to work them well into 
butter and water ; then pour off the water, and add a 
little salt and a teaspoonful of sugar. Cover them, 
and let them cook slowly for about half an hour ; but 
towards, the end of the season, when the peas begin 
to get mealy, you must give them a glass of water 
while they are cooking. Before serving, work in some 
butter and a pinch of flour, and set them on the fire 
for a short time. Some people add a sliced onion, or 
some shreds of lettuce. 



PEAS, 



Stewed Peas. 

I quart peas ; 
3 ozs. butter ; 
I oz. white onion ; 
■J oz. white sugar ; 
A pinch of salt ; 
I o;ill of water. 



339 



Stew for half an hour in a closely covered stew- 
pan ; when done enough, add 3 ozs. of butter ; toss it 
well in the stewpan, so that it mixes with the peas, 
but do not put it on the fire or it will oil. 



Young Peas 'dressed.' 

(Petits pois a I'ancienne mode.) 

Choose a fine lettuce, strip off the outside leaves, 
open the centre and place in it a fresh sprig of thyme, 
tie it up so that the lettuce may not tumble to pieces. 

Place it in a stewpan with i| quarts of young 
peas freshly shelled ; i lb. of fresh butter and a gill 
of water ; not more water, because the lettuce and the 
peas yield a good deal. Add salt, but in moderation. 
Let it cook on a slow fire for twenty minutes, then 
take out the lettuce and allow the peas to stew till 
the sauce is absorbed. Then stir the yolk of an egg 
into four tablespoonsful of good cream, a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered sugar, and a sprinkle of white pepper. 
Mix this quickly with the peas, so that their heat and 
that of the stewpan warm the cream. Do not put 



340 POLENTA. 

the sauce on the fire, or the egg and cream will curdle. 
This is a vegetarian's ' dainty dish.' 

Peas and Ham. 

Cut some ham into squares half an inch each way ; 
take some small onions, or else pieces of onion cut 
the same size as the ham ; fry them a light brown ; 
add this to the required quantity of young peas, stir 
in some flour and butter and enough broth for them 
to stew in. 

The time will depend upon the age of the peas. 

Polenta. 

Polenta is made of Indian corn meal ; the grain of 
Indian corn is so hard that some well-ripened kinds 
are called ' flint corn.' The mill stones used for 
grinding other grain may be used for Indian corn. 
The grain being larger than wheat, it is necessary 
that the stones should be kept wider apart and not 
driven too rapidly, for when the motion of the stones 
is too rapid, the meal becomes heated and injured : the 
cause of injury to the meal is its being ground too 
fine ; ' it kills or deadens the meal.' 

Polenta of Indian meal is made exactly like 
Scotch porridge. While the water is boiling, drop the 
flour in with one hand, stirring incessantly with the 
other with a wooden stick, until a stiff paste is 
formed, which takes about a quarter of an hour. 
Salt should also be added as it boils. Polenta should 
be more solid than porridge, and ought to cut into 



POLENTA. 341 

firm slices with a knife or thread. These slices cut 
into small squares or lozenges, and fried in butter or 
oil, are sometimes served with toasted cheese, or 
brown gravy, when they form a substitute for a 
vegetable. They may be also used to garnish roast 
meat like Yorkshire pudding. Toasted crisply they 
are good as a garnish for dishes like stewed pigeons, 
or any other with which toasted bread is generally 
used. 

Polenta No. 2. 

Stir a quart of Indian corn meal into a quart of 
boiling water, add a little butter and some salt, boil it 
and stir without ceasing till it inclines to stick to the 
bottom of the saucepan ; now pour the polenta on to 
a round dish, and thence on to the proper dish, to 
serve with either meat or fruit. It may also when 
nearly cold be cut into thin slices, and laid on a tin 
thickly buttered ; between the successive layers strew 
some grated Parmesan cheese and some small pieces 
of butter. Bake for an hour in a moderately hot oven. 
In serving, carefully remove the fat. 

Polenta No. 3. 

To each pound of Indian meal add three tumblers 
of water (about i^ pints). The water must be boiling, 
and mixed gradually with the meal, stirring it all the 
time it is on the fire, lest it should form lumps. Add 
a little salt, and let it boil ten minutes. When cooked 
it may be eaten with milk. 



342 



HOMINY. 



Indian Corn Porridge. 

(American Recipe.) 

To make a soup-plate full of porridge, put 2\ 
pints of water and a teaspoonful of salt in a sauce- 
pan on the fire ; when it boils scatter in with one 
hand about a pint of the Indian corn meal, stirring 
all the time with the other ; let it boil for nearly 
half an hour ; stir all the time. It makes a substan- 
tial breakfast or supper if boiled in milk or broth 
instead of water. 3^ lbs. of the meal make porridge 
for ten persons. If cooked in either milk or water, 
cold milk should be eaten with it. 

Hominy. 

(American Recipe.) 

Hominy is made of the broken grain of the 
Indian corn. It should be soaked overnight in warm 
water, changed in the morning to clean cold water 
and boiled gently for an hour and a half. When 
cold, warm it over, eat with milk, molasses, bacon, salt, 
or alone. 

Observe : that Indian corn requires thorough 
cooking in all its preparations, as if not sufficiently 
boiled or baked it loses its flavour and becomes indi- 
gestible. 

Boiled Hominy. 

(American Recipe.) 

If the large kind, soak overnight in cold water. 



HOMINY. 343 

Next day put it Into a pot with at least two quarts of 
water to a quart of hominy, and boil slowly for 
three hours, or until it is soft. Drain in a colander, 
heap in a vegetable dish, and stir in butter, pepper, 
and salt. 

Soak the small hominy in the same way, and boil 
in as much water slowly, stirring constantly to the 
last. It should be thick, and may be eaten at break- 
fast with sugar, cream, and nutmeg. It is a good and 
wholesome dish for children. The water in which it 
is boiled should be slightly salt. If soaked in warm 
water and the same be changed once or twice for 
warmer, it will boil soft in an hour. Boil in the last 
water. 

Fried Hominy. 

(American Recipe.) 

If the large kind, put a good lump of butter or 
dripping in the frying-pan, and heat. Turn in some 
cold boiled hominy, and cook until the under side is 
browned. Place a dish upside down on the frying- 
pan and upset the latter, that the brown crust may be 
uppermost. Eat with meat. 

Cut the small hominy in slices and fry in hot lard 
or dripping. Or, moisten to a soft paste with milk, 
beat in some melted butter, bind with a beaten ^gg, 
form into round cakes with your hands, dredge with 
flour, and fry a light brown. 



344 SPINACH. 

Hominy Croquettes. 

(American Recipe.) 

To a cupful of cold boiled hominy (small-grained) 
add a tablespoonful of melted butter and stir hard, 
moistening gradually with a cupful of milk ; beat to 
a soft, light paste. Put in a teaspoonful of white 
sugar, and lastly a well-beaten ^^g. Roll into oval 
balls with floured hands, dip in beaten ^g^, then in 
rusk crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Spinach, Chicory, and Sorrel. 

The leaves of these vegetables are treated in the 
same way. If not young and tender the stems must 
be removed before boiling. 

Wash, cook in boiling water, drain from the water, 
chop, and pass through the sieve or tamis. 

Warm with either cream, butter, or good stock. 
If liked, one or two yolks of eggs may be stirred in. 

These vegetables may be used as garnish for the 
centre of cutlets, &c. ; or as second-course dishes. In 
the latter case they must be sent up in a deep dish, so 
as to keep warm ; arranged as a pyramid, and dotted 
over, or framed in with fried croutons. These may 
be the shape of wafers, triangles, almonds, or crescents. 

As garnish to cutlets, turnip tops or green cab- 
bage may be dressed like spinach when the latter is 
not plentiful, only the tender leaves being used. 



TOMATOES, 345 



Spinach dressed in German Fashion. 

Wash it clean, and boil for a quarter of an hour 
with some salt. Then squeeze quite dry, and cut 
very finely. 

Mix 6 ozs. butter, i oz. breadcrumbs, and some 
very finely minced onion, and a quarter of a pint 
of cream or good milk. Boil all up together with 
the spinach, and serve. 



Dressed Tomatoes. 

Select tomatoes of an equal size, ripe but not over- 
ripe, cut a slice off the stem part, so as to be able to 
take out the pulp without breaking the rind. Remove 
all the seeds, or pips, stew down the pulp and mix 
with it shallots, parsley, a little grated ham, and 
browned breadcrumbs with yolk of ^gg, and salt to 
taste. Let the mixture be quite smooth ; when cold 
fill your tomato rinds, sprinkle buttered breadcrumbs 
on each, and finish in the oven. The dish which is 
put in the oven must be buttered, and the tomatoes 
must be basted with butter. 

When tomatoes are small, or of irregular shapes, 
the above mixture may be baked, and sent up in 
china souffle cases. 

Tomato Souffle. 

Prepare tomato pulp, taking care that it is not too 
liquid ; stir in the yolks of three eggs (or more if for 



346 TOMATOES, 

a large number of guests), and then the whites well 
beaten. Fill either a large souffle case, or a number 
of small ones ; and bake as other souffles 



Omelette with Tomatoes. 

Take three or four ripe tomatoes, and cut them in 
dice. Chop up a couple of onions, and fry them in 
oil (or butter) ; when they are turning yellow add the 
tomatoes, and let them cook so as to evaporate the 
water of the tomatoes ; then add a little chopped 
parsley. 

Make an omelette in the usual way, pour the 
tomato mixture on the middle, double up the omelette, 
so that there appears to be nothing but omelette, and 
send up on a long oval dish. 

Tomatoes a la Proven9ale. 

Slice off the top of each tomato, take out the pips, 
and then scoop out the interior. Have ready a 
stuffing composed of breadcrumbs, parsley, onions, 
tarragon, salt, pepper, and oil. Mix this with the pulp 
of the tomato, replace in the rind, and let them cook 
in the oven for forty minutes ; if the tomatoes are 
watery, let the water drain away before you mix in 
the stuffing. 

Indian Corn and Tomatoes. 

Take equal quantities of green corn and tomatoes 
sliced and peeled. Stew together half an hour ; 
season with pepper, salt, and a very little sugar. Stew 



TURNIPS. 347 

fifteen minutes longer, and stir in a large lump of 
butter. Five minutes later, pour out and serve. 

Indian corn must be simmered in water till it is 
quite soft ; no time can be assigned, as it varies with 
the state of the corn ; it must be drained quite dry 
before the tomato pulp is mixed with it. 

Pur^e of Turnips. 

Cut up the turnips into small pieces, pour cold 
water on them, and let them steep and strain. 

Put them in a stewpan to stew with a piece of 
butter, and add pepper and salt. When they are soft 
pass them through the tamis. With a little spoonful 
of hot water or hot broth, wash out the pan in which 
they were cooked, and add all to the puree. Serve 
as a dressed vegetable, very hot. 

Glazed Turnips. 

Turn out the turnips all of the same rather 
pointed size and shape, wash them in cold salt and 
water, and strain. Place them in a deepish pan up- 
right, and let them boil in broth with a little sugar. 
Take them off the fire when soft ; have some glaze 
ready ; get them out of the pan without breaking, 
and glaze them with the thick stock. 

Turnips au Gratin. 

Cut in slices as thin as a crown piece ; steep in 
cold water and strain ; then lay them in a buttered 



348 TURNIPS. 

dish that will bear the oven, and finish as for cauli- 
flower * au gratin.' 

Turnips. 

Mashed turnip is a favourite accompaniment of 
boiled mutton, of Prince of Wales' cutlets, &c. The 
turnips must be boiled till tender enough to be passed 
through a sieve. The pulp must then be placed in a 
cloth, which is rolled and wrung, one person at each 
end of the roll. The pulp is then to be mixed with 
cream or butter and flavoured with salt and pepper. 

Turnips a la Poulette. 

Shape into pears, blanch in boiling water, drain. 
Prepare a white sauce with flour and water, butter, 
a pinch of sugar, and a little stock ; put in the turnips 
and let them cook till done. Place the turnips on the 
dish in which they are to be served. Stir the yolk of 
one or two eggs into the sauce, let it just keep hot for 
two minutes, pour round the turnip, and serve. 

Carrots a TAllemande. 

Trim the small Dutchhorn carrots so that they are 
all of the same shape ; that is, the real shape of the 
carrot, but not too sharp at one end or too thick at 
the other, and not longer than i^ inches. 

Parboil in water with a little salt ; drain. Then 
place in a smite pan with one pint of stock, 2 ozs. of 
butter, I oz. of sugar, and let simmer for half an 



CARROTS. 349 

hour ; then let it boil briskly till the sauce is reduced 
to a glaze. Roll each carrot in this, and form into a 
dome of carrots ; surround with a rich sauce, either 
brown sauce flavoured with lemon juice, or cream 
sauce, flecked with chopped parsley. 

Stewed Carrots. 

Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut When melted add an onion cut into shreds. 
Simmer for three minutes ; add four times as much 
beef dripping as the butter, and a little salt. 

Previously cut your carrots into pieces, the length 
and size of the little finger. 

Put them in the pan, shake and add a teacup of 
water, so that it does not touch the carrots. 

Stew in a well-closed saucepan for two hours, or 
till the edges of the carrots look brown. Add two 
lumps of sugar reduced to powder a quarter of an 
hour before serving. Shake the stewpan well, but 
do not use a spoon. 

Carrots ^ la Poulette. 

Parboil the carrots, cut them to the shape of a 
tall thimble or cork, glaze with caramel, and serve 
with a poulette sauce. 

Carrots a la Bechamel. 

Parboil the carrots, cut them to the shape and 
size of a walnut, warm in a thin bechamel sauce. 



350 CURRIED VEGETABLES. 

send up with croutons in a deep dish. When carrots 
are deficient in natural sweetness, a Httle sugar must 
be added. 

Carrots Fried. 

Cut the carrots in rounds, blanch them, drain, and 
fry as potatoes. Let the fat, or butter, absorb on 
paper, and serve very hot. 

Carrots and Green Peas. 

Young carrots are to be cut in fillets, or dice, and 
an equal quantity of young peas are to be added ; 
simmer the carrots in a small quantity of butter and 
water till half done, add the peas, and when they are 
done, stir in butter and flour. Serve hot. 



Curried Vegetables. 

Take carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a small 
proportion of apple, slice them up, fry in butter or 
dripping, sprinkle with curry powder and let them 
absorb it. Stir some curry paste in with either milk 
or broth, simmer the vegetables in this till they are 
tender, prepare rice as for other curry, and send up 
the vegetables and rice in a divided dish. The 
vegetables must absorb all the sauce in which they 
are simmered. 

Butter and milk are to be used when a ' maigre ' 
dish is desired ; dripping and broth on other occa- 
sions. 



SALADS. 351 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

SALADS. 

John Evelyn, the illustrious author of the ' Sylva/ 
held ' sallets/ as he calls them, to be an essential part 
of the daily food of man, and that no dinner is com- 
plete without one. They add a zest to more solid 
viands ; they are anti-scorbutic, and purify the blood, 
and, if properly dressed, they assist digestion. We 
are so entirely of John Evelyn's opinion, that we are 
tempted to devote a chapter to this subject. 

The term salad is commonly applied in England 
to a dish or bowl of lettuce leaves mingled with 
mustard and cress, which used to be habitually served 
with a mixture of yolk of Qgg, cream, vinegar, mustard, 
salt, and pepper prepared beforehand, and poured out 
of a ribbed glass bottle. This singular compound, 
which is peculiar to this country, may well explain the 
fact that salads are not so popular in England as in 
most other countries, and are commonly held to be 
indigestible, if not unpalatable, food. But a salad 
dressed after this fashion must be regarded as a salad 
of the dark ages, to be partaken of with hesitation and 
distrust. The primary condition of a good salad is, 
that it consists of cold fresh vegetables, either uncooked 



352 SALADS. 

or cooked, dressed with an abundance o{ good olive oil 
and a slight flavour of the best white wine vinegar, to 
which may be added a Httle salt and mustard. The 
proportion should be four or five tablespoonsful of oil 
to one of vinegar. In our humble opinion whatever 
is added to this simple preparation is rather injurious 
than otherwise. It is essential that the salad be thus 
made only a few minutes before it is eaten. If it be 
allowed to stand, even for half an hour, the leaves 
of the lettuce lose their crispness and become sodden. 
The oil being poured from a spoon over the leaves 
cut into pieces of a moderate size, not too small, 
the whole salad should be carefully turned over 
and over again with the salad fork and spoon (the 
French call it fatigiier la salade) until every part of it 
receives an equal share of the liquid. Without good 
olive oil no salad worthy of the name can be made ; 
and it is the presence of the oil which softens, corrects, 
and makes wholesome the crudity of the plants. The 
vinegar should be added and stirred in after the oil is 
well distributed over the leaves. 

The lettuce is undoubtedly the queen of salad 
vegetables, and its merit is rather impaired than aided 
by the addition of mustard and cress, although these 
have their advantage when no other green food can 
be obtained. A slice or two of beetroot, a head of 
celery cut up, and, to some tastes, a suspicion of onion 
or shallot, are improvements. Tarragon vinegar may 
be used with advantage by those who like the flavour 
of that herb. 

Lettuces can now be grown or purchased during 
a great part of the year, though they are not always 



SALADS. 353 

cheap. But, in default of lettuce, the endive o{ two 
sorts, the smooth Batavian endive and the curled 
endive, affords an excellent resource. In winter 
corn salad (French mdcJie), which may easily be grown 
and stands all weathers, is a valuable leaf and very 
wholesome. 

But salads are not confined to fresh green vege- 
tables. All vegetables, dressed cold with oil and 
vinegar, belong to the same class. The cucumber, 
eaten raw with vinegar, oil, and pepper, is the most 
common form of salad in England, where, oddly 
enough, it is habitually served either with the fish or 
with the cheese. An excellent salad is made of cold 
slices of beetroot and Portugal onion (boiled) placed 
alternately on the dish, or of cold boiled asparagus, 
seakale, or cauliflower, or even of cold boiled potatoes 
sliced. The most elaborate form of salad is the Salade 
Russe, consisting of cold beans, carrots, olives, ancho- 
vies, and other condiments, which form a substantial, 
not an auxiliary, dish to be introduced towards the 
close of a dinner. 

It may here be remarked that the proper moment 
for serving and eating green salads is with roast meat, 
and more particularly with the game or poultry of 
the second course. There are people who, without 
being professed vegetarians, would rather eat a salad 
without meat than meat without a salad. 

Every one has different ideas of what a salad 
should be, and most English people start by saying, 
' I never eat oil.' Now, the soul of a salad is its oil. 
Let the oil be fresh, got from the best Italian grocers, 
and kept in a cellar on its side. It ought not to be 

A A 



354 SALADS, 

kept uncorked, and for many purposes it is best to 
make a hole through the cork and to drop the oil 
drop by drop. Some of the salads described here 
may, however, be made without oil, or by substituting 
the salad sauce of English country houses — a com- 
pound of cream, mustard, and vinegar. 

We begin by describing Madame's Salad, or 
that which a French lady, if she has two or three 
guests at table, prepares with her own hands. The 
lettuce has been cut ajid washed not more than an 
hour before dinner — and here let us mention that a 
salad cut early, and left in the scullery till 7 P.M., 
will never be a good thing, though it might have 
been had it not left the garden till the gardeners were 
' coming off work ' at 6 P.M. Five minutes in very 
cold water is a good thing for lettuces ; they must 
then be placed in a wire basket, which is shaken so 
as to get rid of every drop of water which may ad- 
here to the leaves. 

Madame's Salad. 

Put the yolk of a fresh ^gg in the salad bowl, and 
beat in it a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, 
and a teaspoonful of mustard. Add two teaspoonsful 
oi vinegar and three tablespoonsful of oil. Beat and 
work all together. Tumble in the lettuce, and roll it 
round and round till it has worked up all the sauce. 



Russian Salad. 

Cut into small shapes the following vegetables : 



RUSSIAN SALAD. 



355 



Potatoes 
Carrots 
Turnips 
Artichokes 



Cauliflower 
Spanish onions 
Capers 
OHves 



Parboil ; drain dry ; warm in butter ; drain again ; 
and let them cool. 





SHAPES OF CUT VEGETABLES. 



Prepare the day before some dry plain biscuits by 
soaking and colouring with spinach. Pass through a 
tamis. Beat four yolks of eggs up with oil and 
mustard, and stir in the biscuit preparation, and half 
a pint of cream ; add some small bits of chicken, 
tongue, or fish. 

Surround with aspic jelly and serve in a glass 
dish. 

July Salad. 

Some slices of cold potato and of green chilies, 
half as many slices of beetroot, and twice as many 
slices of cucumber ; two teaspoonsful of vinegar, or, 
better still, a small ladleful of mint sauce, three table- 
spoonsful of oil, and frtsh lettuces enough to take up 
so much oil. 



156 WINTER SALAD. 



Potato and Truffle Salad : called a la Demidoff. 

Rub the bowl with oil. Lay a row of slices of 
cold potato (the best potatoes are those that were 
done in the oven), and then a row of slices of truffle, 
cut very thin. The best truffles are those that have 
been cooked in white wine and allowed to get cold. 
Alternate layers of these should finish by one of 
truffles. Put all round tiny white onions and stoned 
olives, and work the whole up with oil and vinegar, 
or oil and white wine. This salad, unlike a lettuce 
salad, is the better for being left for two hours in the 
pantry. 

Winter Salad. 

Do not boil the potatoes for this dish, but bake 
or roast them. Cut them into pieces, not slices, and 
water them well, while still warm, with red wine. 
Let them get quite cold. Then add some celery and 
beetroot, or some tomatoes cut into slices, and give 
very little vinegar, but plenty of salt and of oil. 
Work all together. 

Jardiniere Salad. 

Cut into fine slips, as if for a Julienne soup, carrots, 
beetroot, turnips, potatoes ; add haricots, green peas, 
and lentils. Boil them with a little butter in the 
water, and let them become cold. Put some oil or 
some Mayonnaise sauce in the salad dish, add a pinch 
of cayenne pepper, salt, and a spoonful of mustard, 



BEETROOT. 357 

and work all together with a dessert-spoonful of 
vinegar. 

Cucumbers. 

When sliced up they ought to be sprinkled with a 
little salt, and left to drip out their moisture for two 
hours. Lay the slices on a fine clean towel, and dry 
them before seasoning. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Choose a young tender cucumber ; peel it and 
take out the seeds ; cut it in slices and lay them in a 
dish, scattering a little fine salt over them. At the 
end of a quarter of an hour drain out the water, and 
serve them with a dressing of oil and vinegar, pepper, 
salt, and a pinch of parsley chopped fine. 

Beetroot. 

Wash, but do not scrape or touch with a knife, or 
the colour will be lost. 

Boil for two hours ; or, which is better, bake till 
tender, five or six hours. Let the beetroot get cold, 
cut in slices a quarter of an inch thick, range in a 
circle on a dish. Boil and cut up a Portugal onion, 
chop up and put in the centre ; make a salad dressing 
with oil and vinegar (proportion three measures of oil 
to one of vinegar), pepper and salt ; and serve as 
salad. 

N.B. It is a mistake to mix beetroot with lobster 
salad ; the sweet flavour of beet does not harmonise 
with lobster or prawn. 



358 • POTATO SALAD. 

Potato Salad. 

Take cold potatoes, cut them in slices, and, if 
cucumbers are in season, slices of cucumber pre- 
viously drained of their water. Arrange in a circle, 
in alternate slices ; make a salad dressing with oil, 
vinegar, fine herbs, pepper and salt, and pour it over 
the potatoes. 

Slices of beetroot, or of Portugal onions, may be 
used instead of cucumber. 

Celery and Truffles. 

Take the hearts of some well-grown celery ; cut 
them into neat lengths of about three-quarters of an 
inch ; dress them with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. 
Cut up some Perigord truffles into pieces smaller than 
the celery and mix with them. 

Seakale Salad. 

A salad is prepared at All Souls' College, Oxford, 
of seakale, previously boiled and served cold with the 
usual dressing. The duty of preparing the salad of 
the day devolves on the two junior fellows of that 
ancient and renowned college. 



SWEET DISHES. . 359 



CHAPTER XXVIL 

SWEET DISHES AND SAUCES. 

The Choice of Eggs, Butter, Milk, and Cream. 

A BAD EGG, even a doubtful egg, is to be thrown 
away without any consideration that it has cost one 
perny or threepence. If eggs are dear, such dishes as 
require many or any eggs must be discarded, and 
other dishes substituted. It is a rule in using eggs 
to break each into a cup separately, so that a bad 
egg may not be throw^n into the pudding, and thereby 
ruin the whole composition. 

Bad butter, that is rancid or tainted, should never 
be admitted into any house. To call it cooking butter 
is a misuse of words. Salt butter is a different article, 
and is not unwholesome, though it cannot be used for 
dainty dishes, and it must be well washed under a 
running tap of cold water before it is used at all. 
Hard butter keeps longer than soft. 

It must be borne in mind that milk does not re- 
tain its condition of blended milk and cream for more 
than twelve hours ; at the end of that time the cream 
has risen to the surface, and cannot be satisfactorily 
remixed with the milk. 



36o CUSTARDS. 

The cream must be dealt with by itself, the skimmed 
milk by itself. 

If new milk (that is, fresh from the cow) can be 
had, so much the better. If cream is wanted, the milk 
must stand twelve hours ; the cream should then be 
skimmed off, and the milk used for various purposes. 
A small piece of fresh beef suet added to skimmed milk 
replaces the fatty matter of the cream. 



Custards and Creams. 

In heating milk for custards always use a bain- 
marie — that is, the saucepan with milk is to stand in 
another saucepan which contains water. The nr.ilk 
must not be allowed to boil. 

The rule is five eggs to a quart of milk, and a 
tablespoonful of sugar to each tgg ; creams and custards 
which are to be iced require more sugar than those 
not frozen. 

In mixing eggs and hot milk, stir a small quantity 
of the milk into the eggs slowly, so that the eggs nay 
not curdle in the milk. 

A very moderate degree of heat must be employed 
for all sauces thickened with yolk of Qgg. If boiled 
slowly with water cold at first, the yolk sets before 
the white, and both yolk and white become indigest- 
ible when cooked too long ; an omelette becomes 
tough if left in the pan. 

In baked puddings the custard separates into curds 
and whey if the heat of the oven is too great. 

For this reason rice, tapioca, &c., must be cooked 



PUDDINGS. 361 

as long as each may require before the eggs are added 
to them in making puddings which are to be baked. 



Puddings. 

The basins or moulds in which puddings are to 
be boiled are to receive a thin coating of butter. The 
butter must be washed carefully, so as to get rid of 
any salt in it. 

When a cloth is used instead of a basin, it mujt 
he dipped in not water, squeezed dry, and then spread 
out over a pa i and coated with flour. 

A batter pudding is tied lightly in the cloth. 

A bread or a plum pudding requires room to 
swell. 

Pudding cloths must be washed in boiling water 
and perfectly dried before they are put away. They 
must be of different sizes, according as they are to be 
used for tying over basins and moulds, or for receiving 
the pudding itself. 

Custard Puddings. 

There are two kinds of custard pudding, the one 
made with whites of eggs, the other with yolks. It is 
desirable to select that kind which utilises the eggs 
left by other dishes. The proportion and mode of 
cooking are the same for both. 

6 eggs (whites or yolks) ; beat, if whites, to a froth ; 
2 gills of cream ; 
A little sugar ; 
A very little salt ; 



362 CREAMS. 

2 tablespoonsful of liqueur, or a flavour of bitter 
almonds or lemon. 

Steam slowly in a mould in the bain-marie for 
about twenty minutes. If the water is allowed to 
boil, the pudding will be tough instead of elastic and 
lieht. Serve with a fruit sauce. 



'fa' 



Custard. 

I quart of milk ; 
\ lb. of sugar ; 
10 eggs. 

Warm the milk in a milk saucepan. When on 
the point of boiling, take off and strain into a basin ; 
let it cool ; stir in the sugar and the eggs well beaten ; 
strain into a jug ; stand in a saucepan of boiling 
water, and stir one way till it is thick. The custard 
would be spoiled by letting the mixture boil after the 
eggs are in. Serve cold in custard cups or a glass dish. 

Creams to be served in China Cream-pots. 

This is a more elegant mode of serving creams 
than in moulds, the flavour being always lowered by 
the unavoidable addition of gelatine or isinglass to 
make the cream stiff enough to 'turn out. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Take ^ lb. of the best French chocolate and scrape 
fine ; add just enough milk to enable the chocolate 
to dissolve and to cook for ten minutes. Take it 



CREAMS. 363 

away from the fire ; let it cool, and then put to it a 
pint of cream and sugar to taste. 

Beat up the yolks of eight, the white of one, ^g^ ; 
mix with the chocolate cream ; strain and pour into 
the pots ; stand them in a bain-marie (with very little 
water, or it would drown such little pots) ; let the 
mixture set. Take the pots out and put in a cool 
place till time to serve. This quantity will fill twelve 
or fifteen pots. 

Strawberry Cream. 

Remove the stems of a quart of ripe fresh straw- 
berries ; bruise them slightly ; cover with \ lb. of 
powdered sugar. Let them stand for three hours, 
then rub through a fine sieve. Stir together a pint 
of milk and a pint of cream ; or use all cream. 
Sweeten slightly, and warm. Stir in the strawberry 
pulp, whisk the mixture, fill small china or glass cups, 
and serve them on a napkin if the cups do not fit into 
a dish. 

Raspberries, or other fruit, may be treated in 
the same way. When the fruit is not quite ripe, it 
should be stewed before mixing with the cream. 

Velvet Cream. 

Take a large teacupful of white wine, the juice of 
a fine lemon, \ oz. of isinglass, and sugar to taste. 
Let them simmer together till the isinglass is dissolved. 
Strain the mixture, add one pint of cream, and stir 
the whole till quite cold. Pour into a mould and let 
it stand till set. 



364 BLANC MANGE. 

Blanc Mange. 

2 pints of fresh milk ; 

1 pint of cream ; 

2 ozs. Nelson's gelatine (dissolved in water) ; 
The peel of a lemon ; 

Sugar to taste. 

Boil for twenty minutes ; put in a basin and let 
it cool, then pour in a glass of sherry or a liqueur 



MOULD GARNISHED WITH PRESERVES. 

glass of any liqueur, or a few drops of essence of vanille, 
or of bitter almonds, to give flavour. 

Decorate a mould with clear jelly coloured or a 
little of the blanc mange coloured, and then fill up ; 
let it cool completely, or take a plain mould having a 
well in the centre to be filled and garnished with fruit. 
It must be stiff enough from the gelatine to turn 
out without breaking ; but it must melt in the mouth, 
not be eaten by the bite of teeth. 

Souffles. 

It is desirable to begin the directions for making 
souffles by stating that flour, and even potato flour, 



SOUFFLES. 365 

i.e. starch, are not to be used when a refined souffle 
is wanted. The ingredients are to be httle, two eggs, 
butter, and the flavouring matter. 

A good many eggs, and those of the freshest, 
must be used. 

For ordinary souffles, potato flour may be used, 
but not flour which, from its containing gluten, is less 
elastic. Potato flour is really potato starch. 



Sweet Souffles. 

It Is necessary to have plenty of fresh eggs, a 
proper dish, and a manageable oven, in order to 
send up a souffle ; and it must be accepted as the 
rule, that the guests may wait for the souffle, but 
that the souffle cannot wait for the guests. 

Put in a milk saucepan : i^ pints of milk, two 
tablespoonsful of potato flour (that is, potato flour as 
sold by grocers), a tablespoonful of pounded sugar, a 
pinch of salt, essence of vanille, or other flavour ac- 
cording to taste. Stir, and keep on the fire till it is 
a perfectly smooth paste. 

Break six eggs, put the yolks in a basin, the 
whites on a dish ; beat the whites to a snow, stir the 
yolks in after a i^w minutes, and then the white?. 
Pour the w4iole into the souffle case, bake in a quick 
oven for about twenty minutes, or till it has risen ; 
and be sure there is not one minute of delay in the 
souffles being taken from the oven to the dinner table, 
not to the service table. 



366 SOUFFLES. 

Omelette Soufflee. 

6 yolks of eggs ; 
6 ozs. of powdered sugar ; 
A little salt ; 

A tablespoonful of potato flour ; 
A little flavouring, i.e. orange-flower water, or 
essence of vanille. 

Work with a wooden spoon into a creamy batter, 
and then mix in the whisked whites of nine eggs. 

Pile on an earthenware or china dish, and bake 
in the oven for fifteen minutes. Dust sugar on the 
top, and serve at once. 

Omelette Soufflee. 

Six eggs, six tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, 
the juice of a lemon, and half the peel, grated. 

Beat yolks and whites separately, and very well. 
Add to the yolks by degrees the powdered sugar, 
and beat until it ceases to froth, and is thick and 
smooth. The whites should be stiff' enough to cut 
with a knife. Stir together lightly with the seasoning ; 
pour into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a quick 
oven five or six minutes. The dish should be warmed 
when it is buttered, not to chill the eggs. Let it be 
handed quickly before it can fall. 

Chocolate Souffle. 

\ pint of milk ; 

3 tablets of chocolate ; 

4 fresh eggs. 



SOUFFLES. 367 

Scrape the chocolate and cook it in the milk in a 
milk saucepan for three minutes ; take it off the fire 
and let it cool. Beat yolks and whites of eggs sepa- 
rately ; work in the yolks first, and then the whites, 
which must have been beaten to a snow. 

Give the mould, or souffle case, a thin coating of 
butter ; pour in the chocolate mixture, and bake for 
about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. The 
souffle ought to rise above the edge of the case. 

Macaroons, or ratafias, may be substituted for 
chocolate. Coffee may be used ; or a flavouring of 
vanille, or orange-flower water. If only flavourings, 
then a little potato flour will be required. 

Ginger Souffle. 

\ lb. potato flour ; 
\ lb. butter ; 
3 ozs. powdered sugar; 
^ lb. preserved ginger ; 
The peel of one lemon. 

Let the mixture first warm over the stove, stirring 
till quite smooth, and adding one pint of milk. 

Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs, mix 
in the yolks one by one ; the whites beat all together 
to a stiff froth, fill the souffle case. Bake for about 
twenty minutes, and serve before it falls. 

Steamed Souffld. 

I oz. butter, i oz. fine potato flour, 3 yolks, 4 
whites of egg, i gill of milk, i dessert-spoonful of castor 
suGfar. 



368 SOUFFLES. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, taking care it does 
not burn or discolour ; add the flour, and mix well 
over the fire ; add the milk and sugar. 

Take it off the fire and stir in the three yolks sepa- 
rately, and then the four whites beaten to a very stiff 
froth. 

Have ready a buttered tin mould with a piece of 
buttered paper tied round it. Pour in the mixture, 
cover with a buttered paper, and steam for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Turn out of the mould, and serve with a sauce 
made with marmalade and sherrv. 



Souffle a la Paysanne. 

Make a puree of apples, and another of chestnuts, 
stir a little cream into the chestnut puree, place the 
apples at the bottom of a shallow dish, then the chest- 
nuts, cover with meringue and bake in the oven till 
the meringue is a fawn colour. 



Lemon Sponge. 

8 yolks of eggs, well beaten ; 

6 lemons' juice ; 

4 lemons' rinds ; 

\ lb. powdered sugar ; 

\ oz. isinglass dissolved in a teacup of water. 

Mix well and warm in a stewpan till it thickens ; 
pour into custard glasses, and let it cool. 

The whites must be beaten separately, and treated 
as the yolks, omitting the isinglass. There will be one 



FRIAR'S OMELETTE. 369 

set of custard-glasses with yellow sponge, and another 
set with white sponge. 



Friar's Omelette. 

Make a marmalade, or puree, with apples or 
rhubarb ; stir in powdered biscuit, or rusk, or bread- 
crumbs which have been sprinkled with butter and 
dried. Fill a shallow dish, bake in the oven, turn out 
and serve on a napkin, with biscuit crumbs sprinkled 
over. 

Two eggs stirred in are an improvement. 

If fruit is scarce, an excellent dish can be made 
by using an equal quantity of fruit and tapioca made 
with water. The tapioca must be stewed in w^ater 
till it is a jelly, and then mixed with the fruit. 



Raspberry and Rusk Tart. 

(American Recipe.) 

Line a china dish with sponge rusks, fill till three- 
parts full with raspberries, and powdered sugar to taste. 
Fill up the dish with cornflower custard ; bake for a 
short time, and sprinkle the top with powdered sponge 
rusks before sending up. This may be eaten hot or 
cold. 

Cranberries may be substituted for raspberries. 
They must be stewed till tender, and passed through 
a coarse sieve, to remove the skin, before being placed 
on the sponge rusks. 

B B 



370 APPLE MERINGUE. 

Apple or Stone Fruit Meringue. 

Make a marmalade with juicy apples, or with 
apricots, or with peaches, or plums, and half fill either 
a deep tart dish, or a metal souffle case. 

Prepare a custard made with yolks of ^gg, and a 
meringue with the whites. Meringue is white of ^'g2, 
and sugar beaten till it is so stiff a froth that it can 
be cut with a knife. 

Cover the fruit marmalade with a layer of custard, 
and the custard with a layer of meringue. Put in 
the oven and let the meringue set : it must assume a 
pale fawn colour. In serving, strike the spoon to the 
bottom, so that there is a proper help of fruit and 
custard. 

Rod Gro {a Da?iish dish). 

Put one quart of any red fruit juice {saft) into a 
stewpan with 2 quarts of water. 

Add 1 2 oz. of sago, and some sugar ; the quantity 
must depend upon the acidity of the fruit. 

Stir this slowly with a wooden spoon over the 
fire until the sago becomes transparent. 

Do not allow it to become at all thick or clogged. 
Rinse out a mould in cold water, and pour in the 
above, and let it stand to get cold. Serve cold, with 
either vanille sauce or cream. 

Kiselle. 

Mix 3 tablespoonsful of potato or rice flour with 
a pint or more of fruit syrup, raspberry, currant, or 



croOtes aux fruits. 371 

cherry or raspberry vinegar. Boil, and stir it over 
a slow fire till it thickens like a jelly ; pour into a 
mould, and let it stand till cold. 

Croutes aux Abricots, aux Ananas, &c. 

{Bread a Jid Apricots, Pineapple, o^r.) 

With a round cutter punch out pieces of bread 
the size of a pattypan, and two inches deep ; and 
with a smaller cutter scoop out the centre of the 
bread so as to make a place for the fruit. 

Soak the bread in milk and water, but do not let 
it absorb enough to break it up. Give each crust a 
coating of ^%g, and fry a gold colour. Prepare a 
compote of pineapple, or apricots, or greengages, 
and put on each crust a piece of pineapple, an 
apricot, or greengage. Arrange neatly on the dish, 
and pour the syrup, which must be thick, round the 
crusts. 

Croutes aux Praises a la Belle-rive. 

Prepare some small round buns which can be split 
into two parts, buttered, and warmed in the oven. 

Take strawberries, either hautbois or '■ quatre 
saisons,' strew powdered sugar on them, bruise slightly, 
and let them stand for some time, mix the fruit and 
sugar, cover the hot buns with this, let them get cold 
before serving in a glass dish. 

Beignets or Fruit Fritters. 

The fruit may be apples, cut in quarters or eighths, 
peaches, apricots, oranges, or fragments of pineapple. 



372 APRICOTS. 

Prepare frying batter by mixing \ lb. of flour, 
2 ozs. melted butter, a tablespoonful of brandy, and 
enough water to make a creamy paste, and a pinch 
of salt Let this stand while you beat the white of 
two eggs to a solid mass. Work this into the mixture, 
coat each piece of fruit with this batter, fry a golden 
colour, drain on a sieve, dress on a napkin, and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

The pieces of fruit must not be too thick ; and if 
the fruit is not quite ripe, or if it is hard, it should be 
parboiled in thin syrup before being coated with the 
batter. 

Apricots k la Conde. 

Wash the apricots ; split and take out the stone ; 
break that and extract the kernel. Let the half 
apricots blanch in water for an hour ; drain and stew 
in syrup. 

Prepare rice and milk as if for a mould ; cut into 
pieces of the shape of a tartlet tin, and about \ inch 
thick. 

If the dish is to be cold, place half an apricot 
with its kernel on each rice cushion, and dress neatly 
on a dish with the syrup round. 

If hot, fry the rice a golden colour, and let the 
apricots be placed hot on each rice cushion. If there 
are not enough kernels, use blanched almonds, cut 
the same shape as the kernels. Reduce the syrup by 
boiling if it is watery. 

Compote of Pears. 

Take pears of the same size, and of the kinds fit 



COMPOTE OF PEARS. 373 

for stewing, peel them very smoothly, so that the 
surface may be even ; if large, cut in halves, or even 
in quarters ; if small, let them remain whole. 

Place them in a stewpan, with a little lemon peel, 
syrup enough to cover them, and a squeeze of lemon 
juice, which will give the colour desired. Do not put 
cochineal or colouring matter in. Simmer the pears 
slowly till they are tender, take them out with care, 
and range them in a glass dish. Let the syrup simmer 
till it is nearly, not quite, as thick as jelly ; pour into a 
basin till nearly cool, and then pour over the pears. 
Send up cream, either whipped cream or plain cream, 
or Devonshire cream on a separate dish ; but take 
care that it is handed round with, not after, the pears. 
The practice of placing cream on the pears is not to 
be commended, as some palates object to cream, and 
the pears which will keep in syrup will not keep with 
cream adhering to them. 

If the pears are to be white, omit the lemon peel 
and lemon juice. Never allow the syrup to be watery 
when it is sent up round Compote of Pears. 




PEACHES WITH RICE. 



Peaches, apples, and pears prepared as directed in 
this recipe may be dished up with a border of cold 



374 APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

rice cream. When the apples or pears are white, they 
may be ornamented with angelica. The angelica is 
made flexible in tepid water, and can then be cut in 
slices, by which rings are produced, or split up, cut 
into narrow strips or leaves, and a pattern made on 
the rice. A tuft of angelica leaves can be placed in 
the centre of each apple or pear. Dried cherries — that 
is, glace cherries — may also be used. Taste and in- 
genuity will produce very pretty combinations with 
angelica and cherries. 

Apple Charlotte. 

This can be made with fresh fruit or with the 
excellent dried apples now sent over from the United 
States. 

Fresh apples must be peeled, cored, and quartered, 
and converted into pulp. It is impossible to give 
rules for the quantity of water and of sugar required. 
The best apples are those which contain their own 
sugar and w^hich only require a spoonful or two of 
v/ater to assist in being converted into marm.alade. 
Apples, sugar, and a little butter are to be sim- 
mered together. If the apples are too dry, cider or 
the juice of a lemon must be used, and rather more 
sugar. 

A plain mould is to be slightly buttered, and then 
lined with strips of bread which have been fried in 
butter. The base of the mould must have a suitable 
piece of bread its own shape. Make these strips of 
bread adhere firmly to the sides of the mould, and 
then fill v/ith the apple marmalade. Bake in the 



APPLE MARMALADE. 375 

oven for three-quarters of an hour, placing a cover, or 
a plate, and a weight on the mould to retain the 
marmalade in its place. Apple Charlottes require 
care in turning out, as they are liable to tumble 
abroad. Cream and sifted sugar are to be handed 
round with an Apple Charlotte. 

Apple Marmalade. 

If American dried apples are to be used, they 
must be steeped in water the day before, and allowed 
to swell to their state before desiccation ; they will 
require a good deal of sugar, butter, and lemon, and 
the best mode of serving them is to add a little gela- 
tine dissolved in water to the marmalade after it has 
been simmered, and to pour it into a plain mould. 
Cream is to be handed round, or Swiss milk when 
nothing else can be procured. 

Miroton of Apples. 

The marmalade may be less solid for this dish, but 
it must be made as directed in the previous recipe. 

Have a shallow white china dish which stands the 
oven ; fill with the marmalade ; decorate with rows 
of glace cherries, and place in the oven for a quarter 
of an hour. Serve in the same dish, placed on another 
dish. 

Buttered Apples. 

Take large sound apples ; pare and extract the 
core with the implement made for that purpose. 



3/6 APPLE PUDDING. 

Place them in a deep dish ; fill the hollow of each 
apple with butter and sugar ; put a little butter in 
the dish, and put the dish in a stewpan with a cover 
in the oven, which must be very cool. Baste the 
apples with butter, and do not let a skin form round 
them. Each apple must preserve its form, yet be 
soft all through, and the outside must be lubricated, 
as it were, by the basting with butter. 



The Children's Pudding-. 

Line a mould with slices of bread and butter 
evenly cut and pressed together. Pour into it hot 
from the saucepan stewed fruit — apples, gooseberries, 
&c. — sweetened and flavoured. Cover with a slice of 
bread and butter ; press down with a plate and weight 
on the top ; leave to cool for twenty-four hours ; turn 
out, and serve with a custard. 



Apple Pudding. 

Eight ounces of flour, two of beef suet chopped 
very fine, a pinch of salt, and water to make a paste. 
It must be rolled and mixed till a perfectly smooth 
paste is made. 

Pare and quarter cooking apples (the ' Lord Sefton ' 
is an admirable apple) ; sweeten to taste ; flavour 
with either lemon-peel or cloves, ascertaining which 
is preferred. If there is any doubt, omit the cloves, 
as those who dislike them will not touch a dish in 
which a clove is put. 

Line the basin with paste ; fill with the apples ; 



APPLE PUDDING. ^yy 

cov'er with paste ; close the edges ; tie over a floured 
cloth, and boil for four hours. Turn out of the basin, 
and serve hot Cream and sugar are to be handed 
round. 

If the water gets in during boiling, your pudding 
is spoiled. 

Apple Pudding No. 2. 

This is best made with brown breadcrumbs. 

Put some butter into a stewpan, and let it become 
of a bright brown colour, and then fry the crumbs of 
a bright brown colour. 

Remove the greater part of the crumbs, leaving a 
layer of them in the stewpan, about as thick as a 
finger, and strew some sugar over it. 

Having prepared some apple sauce by boiling 
apples with sugar and cinnamon, and then mashing 
them up, put a layer of this on the crumbs. Then 
again a layer of fried crumbs, and sugar strewn on the 
top, and another layer of apple sauce. 

Continue these alternate layers till all is finished, 
leaving a layer of crumbs on the top. On this put a 
few very small bits of butter, and strew sugar. 

The best plan of finishing it off is to put a lid on 
the stewpan, with some charcoal on the top ; and, by 
keeping it on the fire, bake it of a bright brown colour. 
But it can be put into the oven and baked there. 

Turn it out, and serve hot. 



378 BAKED APPLE PUDDING 



Baked Apple Pudding. 

Ingredients : — i lb. of flour, i heaped-up tea- 
spoonful of Yeatman's yeast powder, \ lb. of good 
dripping, lard, or butter, i lb. of moist sugar, I J lbs. of 
apples, some lemon-peel, and \ lb. of currants. Mix 
the yeast powder well into the dry flour, rub the 
dripping in the flour until it is thoroughly well mixed, 
two-thirds of a breakfast-cup of water to make into a 
dough ; knead it and roll out. Have ready a basin 
well buttered, and as much sugar laid on as the butter 
will hold ; line this basin with the paste, put in a 
handful oi apples chopped fine, a few currants, some 
lemon-peel, a little cinnamon, nutmeg, some sugar, a 
teaspoonful of water, and a layer of dough rolled out 
thin ; then some more apples, and other ingredients. 
Continue the same alternately until the basin is full : 
then fold the dough over the top so as to completely 
cover it. Bake in a slow oven for one hour and a 
half. Turn it out on a flat dish, when it should look 
brown and glazed. This is a very economical pud- 
ding, and very nice for winter use. 

Rice Croquettes. 

Half a cup of rice ; 

1 pint of milk ; 

2 tablespoonsful of sugar ; 

3 eggs ; 

A little grated lemon-peel ; 



RICE CAKES. 2>79 

I tablespoonful of melted butter ; 
I saltspoonful of salt. 

Soak the rice for three hours in warm water 
enough to cover it. Drain almost dry and pour in 
the milk. Simmer in a milk saucepan until the rice 
is very tender. Add the sugar, butter, and salt, and 
simmer ten minutes. Whisk the eggs to a froth, and 
add cautiously, taking the saucepan from the fire 
while you whip them into the mixture. Return to 
the range or stove, and stir while they thicken, not 
allowing them to boil. Remove the saucepan, and 
add the grated lemon-peel ; then turn out upon a 
well-buttered dish to cool. When cold and stiff, flour 
your hands, and roll into oval or pear-shaped balls ; 
dip in beaten Ggg, then in fine rusk-crumbs, and fry 
in lard, dress in a mound and serve with a garnish of 
angelica. 

Rice Cakes. 

Wash \ lb. of Carolina rice, taking care to pick 
out any grains which have not been skinned. Let it 
swell in milk on a slow fire, adding the zest (or outside 
thin rind) of a lemon, 2 ozs. of fresh butter, and a 
little white sugar. As the rice swells add boiling 
milk till the mass is thick and smooth. The rice 
must be swollen, but not broken. Take off the fire, 
and stir in the yolks of four eggs. Then beat the 
whites of two eggs, and stir them in. Have ready a 
plain mould ; butter the inside and coat with fine 
breadcrum.bs ; pour in your rice mixture, and bake 
for an hour. Serve on a napkin, with sauce in sauce 
tureen — either German sauce or fruit syrup sauce. 



58o GATEAU OF RIOE. 

The rice mixture may be made into croquettes of 
any shape dipped in breadcrumbs and egg, and fried. 

A variety can be obtained by flavouring the rice 
with vanille ; by inserting a glace cherry or a Httle 
bit of orange marmalade in each croquette. 

And rice cakes and fritters may be made by the 
preceding process, omitting the eggs. 



Gateau of Rice a la Bourgeoise. 

Swell in milk \ lb. of rice, with a little lemon-peel 
to flavour, or some orange-flower water. When cold, 
mix in six macaroons or a dozen ratafias broken up, 
the yolks of two and the whole of two more eggs. 
The other two whites to be whipped to a froth and 
stirred in the last thing. 

Take a plain mould, and coat the inside with 
butter and a good layer of breadcrumbs ; then pour 
in the rice mixture. Bake for thirty minutes ; dish 
up on a napkin, and serve a sauce made from either 
fresh fruit or from fruit jelly or syrup. 

Rice Pudding with Apples. 

(German Recipe.) 

Take 8 ozs. of Carolina rice ; steep it in boiling 
water for a quarter of an hour ; pour off the water, 
then boil in 3 pints of milk, and set it to cool. 
Meanwhile peel six good cooking apples ; cut them 
into little pieces, and steam them over a slow fire in 
half a glass of water, 2 ozs. of butter, with sugar and 
a little cinnamon if liked, taking care that they do 



GE^XOESE PASTRY. 381 

not fall to pieces. While the apples are cooling mix 
together 6 ozs. of butter, 6 yolks of eggs, 6 ozs. of 
sugar, and a pinch of salt, and put into this the rice 
now cool. Beat this up together ; add the rind of 
half a lemon, and lastly add the whites of the six 
eggs beaten. Pour part of this into a silver souffle 
case or a pudding dish previously buttered, then a 
layer of the apples now cold, then another layer of 
the rice, &c., and so on till the dish is full. Cover 
with the rest of the rice, and bake for an hour in a 
moderately hot oven. 

Genoese Pastry. 

Take equal weights, say \ a lb., of flour, butter, 
and white sugar, a pinch of salt, four eggs, and a 
liqueur glass of brandy. The butter is stirred in 
after the other ingredients have been mixed in a 
basin ; it must be allowed to melt near the fire before 
using. When a thoroughly smooth paste has been 
made, it can be baked in a tin and used when cold 
for pastry sandwiches — that is, cut into the shapes 
best liked, and jam put between two layers of pastry. 

Or, if intended to be eaten hot, it should be baked 
in dariole moulds, and a fruit syrup sauce handed 
round. 

If a large shape is preferred, when cold the centre 
can be scooped out, and the opening filled up with a 
macedoine of fruits. In this case, the shape is gene- 
rally cut in slices, and then fastened together again 
with apricot marmalade. The outside is coated with 
marmalade, and decorated with small leaves or wafers 



382 DAMPFNUDELN. 

cut from the part taken out. Whipped cream may 
be used to fill up the shape instead of fruits, but the 
treatment with apricot marmalade must be the same. 

Dampfnudeln. 

1 lb. of flour ; 

2 small tablespoonsful of yeast ; 
\ lb. of butter ; 

5 eggs ; 

2 tablespoonsful of pounded sugar ; 

A pinch of salt ; 

Milk. , 
Put the flour in a basin ; make a hole in the 
centre, into which put the yeast, and a \ pint of warm 
milk. Make this into a paste, and let the ' sponge ' 
rise in a warm temperature. When sufficiently risen 
stir in the eggs one at a time, the butter, sugar, and 
salt, with more warm milk. Knead the whole well 
together with the hands, beating the dough until it is 
perfectly smooth, and it drops from the fingers. Then 
cover the basin with a cloth, and put it in a warm 
place ; and when the dough is nicely risen knead it 
into small balls ; butter the bottom of a deep smite- 
pan. Strew over pounded sugar, and lay the dampf- 
nudeln in the pan ; do not let them touch each other. 
Pour over sufficient milk to cover them, put the satite- 
pan by the fire, and let them swell to twice their size. 
Place the balls in the oven for a short time to ac- 
quire a nice brown colour ; send up on a napkin. Serve 
wine sauce, or syrup sauce, or chocolate sauce in a 
sauce tureen. 



MEHLSPEISE. 383 

Time. 

30 to 45 minutes for the sponge to rise ; 
10 to 15 minutes for the balls to rise ; 
10 minutes to bake in a quick oven. 

The above quantity will make ten or twelve balls. 
A Mehlspeise. 

(German Recipe.) 

Stir \ lb. of the finest flour into \ a pint of cold 
milk (or more if necessary), till the substance becomes 
like a cream, and perfectly smooth. 

Then add the yolks of four eggs ; 4 ozs. of butter 
well washed ; 4 ozs. of sugar ; and stir all well into 
a cream over the fire. 

Take it off the fire, and when cold add six yolks 
of eggs. Stir again well (it must be quite smooth), 
then beat the whites of eight eggs into a snow, and 
add this likewise. 

Butter a round flattish mould ; put in a layer of 
this mixture. Peel two lemons, cut them into slices ; 
take out all the pips. Put a layer of the lemon on the 
cream not too closely, and strew powdered sugar thickly 
over them. Then again a layer of cream, and again 
slices of lemon and sugar till the dish, which should 
be about three inches high, is full. 

Bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Turn out 
and serve cold. Instead of lemon, apricots or pre- 
served strawberries or any other fruit can be used. 



384 LECHE CREMA 



Leche Crema. 

(This recipe comes from the nuns of the Santa Clara convent, at 
PalmOS, in the Island of Grand Canary.) 

Beat up three eggs, leaving out two of the whites, 
add them gradually to i^ pints of good milk. Mix 
with this very carefully four tablespoonsful of fine 
wheaten flour ; 2 ozs. of finely powdered loaf sugar ; 
and some grated lemon-peel. Boil these ingredients 
over a slow fire, stirring constantly till the flour is 
dissolved. Prepare a shallow dish w4th some ratafias 
laid over the bottom. When the cream is ready, pour 
it through a sieve over the cakes. 

Turn it out when cold, strew some finely pow- 
dered cinnamon pretty thickly over it, and serve. 

Beignets a la Bonne Femme. 

Put in a milk saucepan i oz. of butter ; 2 ozs. of 
powdered sugar ; the zest of a lemon ; and a glass of 
water. As it boils dredge in enough potato flour to 
produce a thick paste. Stir it till it sticks to the side 
of the saucepan. Turn it out into a basin and let it 
cool, then stir in, one by one, six yolks of ^g^. Spread 
this paste on a dish so that it is about an inch thick. 
Have ready a frying-pan with boiling lard ; take paste 
about the size of a walnut, by dipping in the handle 
of a spoon, and drop it in the pan. Keep shaking the 
beignets till they have swelled and turned golden. 
Lay them on a wire frame to drain quite dry. Dish 
up on a napkin, and dust sugar over them. 



PANCAKES. 3S5 

Pancakes. 

Put in a basin two teaspoonsful of fine flour, and 
mix in a little salt. 

Mix in the yolks of four, the whites of two eggs, 
well beaten ; and add a few drops of orange-flower 
water, if liked. 

Have ready a small omelette pan with a coating of 
butter. Take care to keep the quantity of paste 
you put in the pan very small. Let it spread itself 
over the pan, and after a minute or two turn on the 
other side ; roll it up and put on a dish in front of the 
fire ; then make another, and so on till all the material 
is used up. 

The pancakes must be placed on a napkin, three 
in a row, and three across them ; a sprinkling of sugar 
on the top. 

Batter for pancakes should be made a couple of 
hours before using. Lard or clarified fat burns less 
easily than butter ; only a small piece should be put 
into the frying-pan at once, fresh being added for 
each pancake. About half a teacupful of batter is 
sufficient for one. 

Tipsy Cake. 

Mix a tumbler of sherry, and a wine-glass of 
brandy. 

Line a glass dish with sponge cakes, and saturate 
them with the above mixture. Then cover with a layer 
of macaroons and saturate them. Cover with apricot 
jam ; then a layer of custard ; then strawberry jam. 
Finally place whipped cream on the top. A souffle dish 

C C 



386 NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

may be used instead of a glass dish. In helping, use 
a long-handled spoon and go to the bottom, so that 
some of each ingredient is given to each guest. 



Neapolitan Cake. 

I lb. flour ; 

10 ozs. sweet almonds and 4 ozs. bitter almonds ; 

The peel of two small lemons ; 

I lb. pounded sugar ; 

1 lb. good butter ; 
The yolks of four eggs. 

Blanch and pound the sweet and bitter almonds 
with a spoonful of orange-flower water into a smooth 
paste ; mix them with the flour and butter broken 
into pieces. Rub the sugar on to the peel of the 
lemons. Pound it very fine ; and add it to the flour 
and the almonds, mixing the whole together with the 
yolks of four well-beaten eggs. Roll the paste about 
a quarter of an inch thick. Cut it with a fluted cutter, 
and place each piece on a tin lightly dredged with flour. 
Bake in a slow oven for | of an hour. When firm 
and a nice bright colour take them out, and when 
cool spread on one side of each slice a layer of jam ; 
and pile them evenly on each other to form one entire 
cake. Ornament the top with pistachio nuts cut into 
small pieces. 

Polish Baba. 

3 lbs. flour (Hungarian) ; 

2 ozs. yeast ; 



POLISH BABA. 387 

1 oz. salt ; 
\ lb. sugar ; 

7 ozs. sultanas ; 

A pinch of saffron boiled in water ; 

Twenty-two eggs ; 

2 lbs. butter ; 

A wine-glass of sherry ; 
A wine-glass of cream. 

Divide the flour into four parts ; with one part 
make a hollow mound and work in the yeast which 




POLISH BABA. 

has been mixed with a small cup of tepid water. The 
usual care in mixing bread must be given in mixing 
the yeast and flour. With the other three parts of 
the flour make a hollow mound and work in the sugar 
and salt, the cream, the eggs, and the butter. When 
the leavened flour has risen properly, the two lumps 
are to be well mingled and worked together. Finally 
the sherry, the safl'ron, and the raisins are to be mixed 
in. A small part of the dough should be taken off to 
line the mould before the raisins are put in. 

The mould must be tall and taper by stages. 
About one and a half hour's baking ought to be 
enough. 

c c 2 



388 MADELEINES. 

A sauce made with apricot syrup and rum is to 
be handed round. 

Madeleines. 

4 ozs. butter; 

3 ozs. sugar ; 

4 ozs. fine flour ; 

The rind of a lemon cut so fine that it is perceived 
only as a flavour ; 

A few drops of orange-flower water ; 
The yolks of four eggs. 

Mix thoroughly. Beat the four whites to half 
' snow ; ' work them in. Fill little dariole moulds 
which have been buttered ; and be sure to wash the 
salt out of the butter first. Bake for thirty to forty- 
five minutes. Send up on a napkin, and serve a syrup 
sauce of either fresh fruit or preserved fruit in a sauce 
tureen. 

Croquettes of Chestnuts. 

Roast fifty sound chestnuts ; take them out of 
their shells, and select the white parts only. Divide 
these into two portions, of which the most broken 
bits are to be pounded in a mortar with one ounce of 
butter. Pass it through a sieve ; mix in a small cup 
of cream, 2 ozs. of butter, i oz. of powdered sugar, 
and a tiny pinch of salt. Put in a bain-marie sauce- 
pan, and mix in the yolks of four or six eggs. Let 
the mixture set ; then make it into balls. In the 
centre of each ball put a piece of the chestnuts from 
the reserved portion, just dipped in cream. Dip each 
ball in breadcrumbs and c^g, and fry a gold colour. 



PUFF PASTE. 389 

Serve on a napkin, with white sugar lightly sifted over 
them. The puree of chestnut may also be steamed 
in a mould like souffle pudding. 

ProfiteroUes as a Sweet Dish. 

Warm in a saucepan half a pint of milk, 2 ozs. of 
butter, I oz. of sugar, a pinch of salt. Stir in enough 
flour to make a paste, and some orange-flower water ; 
then work in two eggs, and form the paste into small 
balls or buns. Bake on a tin, and serve on a napkin 
with chocolate sauce in a tureen. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Butter some small patty pans ; line with puff 
paste. Fill with the following custard, and bake in 
a quick oven : — 

\ lb, potato flour ] 

..•11 just warmed on 

1 pmt milk \ •' 

2 ozs. butter, stirred to a cream j ' 

2 ozs. sugar; 

3 eggs yolks and whites stirred in separately 

Have some currants ready, carefully washed, 
and make a pattern with them on the top of each 
' cheese cake ' 

Puff Paste. 

Three cupfuls sifted flour, two cupfuls butter, one 
yolk of egg, a little salt, i teaspoonful Yeatman's 
yeast powder. 

The essentials for making a puff paste are : a cool 
place to make it in, ice broken up in two shallow cake 



390 S EMM EL PUDDING. 

pans, good flour, and butter, firm, with the salt 
and buttermilk worked out. Sift the flour with the 
powder in it on the pastry slab ; form it into a ring 
with the back of your hand ; place in the centre the 
yolk of Qgg and salt ; add a little ice water, and from 
the inside of the ring gradually take the flour, adding, 
a little at a time as you require it, more ice water — 
about a cupful together — until you have a smooth fine 
paste, very tenacious and lithe. Place in the ice box for 
fifteen minutes, then roll it out to the size of a dinner 
plate ; lay on it the butter, and wrap over it the edges 
of dough, carefully covering it ; turn it upside down, 
and roll it out very thin ; then turn the face down — 
the face is the side of the paste next to the rolling 
pin — folding it in three, squarely. Repeat this three 
times more, placing it in a thin tin on the broken ice, 
and the other tin containing ice on it between each 
turn or operation of folding and rolling. . By this 
method this difficult puff paste may be made suc- 
cessfully in the hottest weather. 

Semmel Pudding. 

(German Recipe.) 

Work 4 ozs. of butter into a cream. Add the 
yolks of six eggs, one after the other. Rub the peel of 
half a lemon into 8 ozs. of white sugar ; pound this 
and add it. Add also a little of the juice of the 
lemon, i oz. of pounded almonds, a little pounded 
spice, a spoonful of rum, a few bits of finely sliced 
peel. When all the above has been well stirred 
together, 12 ozs. fineh' grated white roll {semmel) 



POTATO PUDDIXGS. 391 

crumbs or bits of broken biscuit pounded must be 
added, and very gradually a pint of milk. The six 
whites of eggs must now be well beaten, and then 
added to the rest. Put it into a well-buttered mould 
which has been strewn with grated bread, and bake 
for one hour. Turn it out, and serve with a fruit 
sauce [safi). 

Potato Pudding {Sandtorte), 

(German Recipe.) 

Work I lb. of butter into a cream. Rub the peel 
of a lemon on to some white loaf sugar ; pound it, 
and add i lb. to the above. Add gradually the yolks 
of nine eggs. Add, also very gradually, i lb. of home- 
made potato flour. Lastly, beat up well the whites of 
six eggs, and add these. Stir the whole for one hour 
continuously, always the same way. Butter a mould ; 
strew it with breadcrumbs and put in the mixture 
Bake for one hour, and turn it out. Serve hot. 

Another recipe for ' Sandtorte ' adds 3 ozs. of 
almonds, with a few bitter ones among them, the 
juice as well as the rind of a lemon, and 3 or 4 spoons- 
ful of maraschino, to the above. 

Potato Pudding No. 2. 

Boil ^ lb. of potatoes ; rub them through a fine 
sieve. Add 6 ozs. of butter clarified, four eggs well 
beaten, the juice and rinds of two lemons, 7 ozs. of 
pounded sugar, and a little brandy. Put paste round 
the edge of a pie-dish. Bake this size of pudding for 
three-quarters of an hour. 



392 CARAMEL PUDDING. 

Caramel Pudding. 

Take. 2 ozs. of pounded sugar and put in a plain 
mould, and set on a hot plate until melted, then run 
it all round the mould and fill with the following 
mixture : for a pint mould take seven yolks of eggs, 
half a pint of cream, and sweeten to taste. Steam 
half an hour. Make a sauce of burnt brandy and 
sugar, and pour round. 

Caramel pudding is better cold than hot. 

Lady Raglan Pudding. 

Butter the inside of a plain pudding mould. Or- 
nament the top with citron and candied peel, and line 
it with dried figs cut in half, the skins being inside. 
Fill the mould with a raw custard made with seven 
yolks of eggs and half a pint of good milk or cream. 
Sweeten and flavour to taste. Cover the mould with 
buttered paper, and steam till quite firm. Let it 
stand till cold, and then serve with sauce made of 
two tablespoonsful of apricot jam or marmalade and 
two glasses of sherry. 

Snowdon Pudding. 

\ lb. suet ; 

\ lb. breadcrumbs ; 

2 tablespoonsful of marmalade ; 

I dessert-spoonful of moist sugar. 

A pinch of salt. 

Chop the suet very fine, and mix all the ingre- 
dients well together. Put in a mould, and steam 
four or five hours 



AMBER PUDDING. 393 

Amber Pudding. 

Peel six apples ; cut out the core, and cut them 
into slices. 

Put them into a stewpan with 3 ozs. of moist 
sugar, 2 ozs. of butter, and the peel and juice of a 
lemon. Stew the apples till they are quite tender 
Pass them through a sieve into a large basin, and stir 
to the puree the yolks of three eggs. Line a pie-dish 
with puff paste. Pour the mixture into the dish, and 
put it into the oven for twenty minutes. Whip the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. When the pudding 
is set, put the white of ^^^ on the top, and sift castor 
sugar over it. Put it back into the oven to set, but 
do not let it take any colour. 

Newark Pudding. 

I cup fine breadcrumbs ; 

1 quart milk ; 
5 eggs ; 

2 tablespoonsful rice flour ; 

\ lb. glace cherries cut in two ; or angelica ; 
A flavouring of essence of vanille ; 
2 tablespoonsful butter melted ; 
\ teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 

Soak the crumbs in milk. Wet the rice flour 
with cold water, and stir in. Next the yolks of eggs 
well beaten ; then the milk, butter, and other ingre- 
dients. Have ready a buttered mould ; ornament the 
base with cherries and angelica cut in shapes. Bake, 
or steam. Serve, if baked, on a napkin with sauce 



394 F^G PUDDING. 

separately, if steamed with sauce around. An hour 
for baking ; two hours for steaming. 

Fig Pudding. 

1 lb. figs pounded in a marble mortar ; 
\ lb. breadcrumbs mixed gradually ; 

6 ozs. beef suet minced small and mixed ; 
4 ozs. pounded loaf sugar. 
A pinch of salt. 

To be all well mixed with two eggs beaten up, 
and a good teacupful of milk. 

All to be well beaten up, put in a mould, and 
boiled for four hours in a pan of water. 

Send up with a rum sauce. 

Eve's Pudding. 

6 ozs. breadcrumbs ; 

6 ozs. beef suet, chopped very fine ; 

6 ozs. chopped apples ; 

6 ozs. currants or sultanas ; 

Four eggs well beaten ; 

Sugar to taste ; and lemon peel. 

Boil in a shape. Serve with wine sauce 

German Pudding. 

2 ozs. rice boiled in i pint milk ; 
6 ozs. beef suet ; 

6 ozs. sultanas, chopped fine ; 

Three eggs ; 

A little sugar and lemon peel. 



MARMALADE PUDDING. 395 

" Bake in a mould ; turn out and serve with sauce, 
as follows : — 

Three eggs well beaten ; 
A wine-glass of Chablis ; 
A squeeze of lemon ; lemon peel. 

Whisk whilst warming. If preferred, the sauce 
can be sent up in a sauce boat. 

Sauce made with fruit syrup may be used instead 
of the ^^^ sauce. 

Marmalade Pudding. 

I teacupful sour milk, or buttermilk ; 

I tablespoonful brown sugar ; 

I tablespoonful marmalade ; 

\ teaspoonful carbonate of soda ; 

The yolks of two eggs beaten up in the milk ; 

6 ozs. of flour ; 

Whisk the whites of eggs and stir in. 

Steam quickly for half an hour, letting it stand a 
little longer at the side of the fire. Serve with mar- 
malade sauce. 

Irish Puddings. 

Take one ^gg, and its weight in sugar, in flour, 
and in butter. Add a M^xy little lemon juice, and 
grated lemon peel. 

Beat it well and lightly for nearly a quarter of an 
hour ; pour it into small tins and bake for twenty 
minutes. 

This quantity makes three cup puddings. 



BAKE WELL PUDDING. 



Bakewell Pudding. 



\ lb. biscuit crumbs (finger) ; 
6 ozs. sugar ; 

1 gill cream ; 

2 ozs. dried cherries ; 
•J lb. cored pears ; 

6 eggs ; 

2 dozen almonds. 

Butter a pie dish. Mix biscuit crumbs, sugar, and 
cream together in a basin ; put a layer of it in the 
pie-dish, then a layer of pears cut thin, then a layer of 
breadcrumbs, then dried cherries, crumbs, and almonds ; 
beat two eggs between the successive layers, reserving 
one for the top to ornament with dried cherries and 
almonds. A little salt and sugar should be mixed 
with the Qgg before being whipped. 

Bake twenty minutes. 

Indian Corn Pudding {baked). 

(American Recipe.) 

Take one quart of boiled milk, stir in seven spoons- 
ful of Indian corn meal while still boiling hot, mix it 
quite thin ; when it is moderately warm, add molasses, 
a little ginger and salt, four eggs, a lump of butter the 
size of an Qgg, and bake. 

Indian Corn Pudding {boiled). 

(American Recipe.) 

Take one teacupful of molasses, one piece of suet 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 397 

the size of two eggs chopped fine, three spoonsful of 
Indian corn meal ; scald the meal with boiling water, 
or milk, mix it quite thin ; when it is nearly cold, add 
four eggs well beaten. It requires three hours' boiling 
in a strong cloth. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

\ lb. chocolate (Compagnie Coloniale, without 
sugar) ; 

\ lb. stale sponge cake, or rusks in crumbs ; 

\ lb. sugar ; 

I pint new milk ; 

6 eggs ; 

\ lb. butter. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
yolks of eggs, well beaten. Stir in the grated choco- 
late dissolved in the milk, and lastly the whites of 
Ggg well beaten. 

Bake in a souffle case three-quarters of an hour, 
or steam in a plain mould. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Cut thin slices of stale bread, butter them, and fit 
them into your pudding dish till it is half full. 

Heat the milk and stir in sugar and the eggs, well 
beaten. Pour this mixture over the bread and butter, 
and put a saucer on the slices to keep them in their 
place. It will require at least a quarter of an hour 
for the bread to soak up the milk and eggs. If the 
bread floats, lay a spoon across the top to keep it in 
its place. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 



398 TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Currants, or chopped angelica, may be strewn on 
each sHce of bread in making this pudding. 



Tapioca or Sago Pudding. 

I teacup tapioca ; 

1 quart milk ; 

2 tablespoonsful butter melted ; 
I tablespoonful sugar ; 

A few drops essence of vanille, it that flavour is 
liked, or of bitter almonds. 

The artificial oil of bitter almonds is safer in 
cookery than the natural oil of the almond, because 
it does not contain the prussic acid which is some- 
times present in the natural oil. 

Soak the tapioca in water for two hours. Drain 
thoroughly ; then put the tapioca into tepid milk and 
soak another two hours. Mix the butter and sugar, 
and stir in. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately, and stir in. 
Butter a dish and fill. Bake in the oven three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Genoese Pudding. 

Take three eggs and an equivalent weight of flour, 
butter, and sugar ; beat the butter and sugar in a 
basin, adding one ^gg at a time with a little of the 
flour, and some essence of vanille or lemon, till all 
is beaten up together. 

Butter and line a thin square tin with paper, pour 
the batter into it, put this into the oven, and when 
set sufficiently to raise it from the paper, take it out. 



PUDDING A LA MOUSSELINE. 399 

Spread plum or any other firm kind of jam on it, roll 
it over and over, and return it to the oven till firm ; 
serve with white sugar over it. 



Pudding a la Mousseline. 

Grate the rind of two lemons, squeeze the juice, 
mix in 2 ozs. of powdered sugar, 2 ozs. of fresh butter, 
and a pinch of salt, and the yolks of four eggs. Put 
in a stewpan and stir briskly ; let the mixture just 
come to the boil. 

Set it to cool in a basin ; when quite cold, stir in 
one more yolk. Whip four whites to a firm froth, 
and mix in carefully, so that the mixture is perfectly 
smooth and uniform. 

Butter a plain mould, fill wath the mixture, steam 
for three-quarters of an hour. Surround with either 
fruit-syrup sauce or ' chaudeau ' sauce. 

Sunday Pudding. 

I lb. flour ; 

\ lb. breadcrumbs ; 

I lb. suet ; 

\ lb. sugar ; 

I lb. raisins 



These ingredients are to be mixed with milk and 
boiled five hours in a cloth. 



Baked Apple Pudding. 

Ingredients : — i lb. of flour, i heaped-up tea- 



400 POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

spoonful of Yeatman's yeast powder, \ lb. of good 
dripping, lard, or butter, I lb. of moist sugar, i \ lbs. of 
apples, some lemon-peel, and \ lb. of currants. Mix 
the yeast powder well into the dry flour, rub the 
dripping in the flour until it is thoroughly well mixed, 
two-thirds of a breakfast-cup of water to make into a 
dough ; knead it and roll out. Have ready a basin 
tvell buttered, and as much sugar laid on as the butter 
will hold ; line this basin with the paste, put in a 
handful of apples chopped fine, a few currants, some 
lemon-peel, a little cinnamon, nutmeg, some sugar, a 
teaspoonful of water, and a layer of dough rolled out 
thin ; then some more apples, and other ingredients. 
Continue the same alternately until the basin is full ; 
then fold the dough over the top so as to completely 
cover it. Bake in a slow oven for one hour and a 
half Turn it out on a flat dish, when it should look 
brown and glazed. This is a very economical pud- 
ding, and very nice for winter use 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

Half cupful of chopped suet, \ cupful of seeded 
raisins, \ cupful of currants, washed and picked, 
I \ cupfuls of grated bread, I cupful of flour, i tea- 
spoonful of 'Yeatman's yeast powder, \ cupful of 
brown sugar, i pint of milk. 

Mix all well together, put into a well-buttered 
mould, set in a saucepan, with boiling water to reach 
half up the sides of the mould ; steam it two hours ; 
turn out on its dish carefully, and serve with butter 
and sugar. 



GATEAU DE PRUNES. 401 



Black Currant Jelly as a Sweet Dish. 

Take one quart of ripe black currants, put them 
into a stewpan on the fire, with half a pint .of good 
syrup. Let them boil for five minutes, then pass 
them through a tamis cloth into a basin ; add one 
glass of brandy, and one ounce and a half of isinglass ; 
pour into a mould set in rough ice ready to receive it. 



Gateau de Prunes k la Creme. 

Stew the prunes in water for an hour and a half, 
then take out the prunes and remove the stones with 
a skewer. Meanwhile, dissolve some red currant jelly 
in the water in which the prunes have been stewed, add 
sugar, lemon juice, and a little gelatine, and simmer 
together. Fill a border mould with the syrup and 
prunes ; let it cool, turn out on a dish, and fill the 
centre with whipped cream ; or fill a solid mould and 
serve the cream separately. 

The stones may be cracked, the kernels blanched, 
and a few added to the prunes, if the flavour is ap- 
proved. 

Prune Jelly for a Quart Mould. 

Take i^ lbs. of prunes and stew for an hour and 
a half, with the rind of i lemon, and 3 ozs. of sugar. 
Then pass through a sieve and add the juice of i 
lemon, a pot of red currant jelly, and i oz. of gelatine. 
Pour into a mould until cold. 

D D 



402 ORANGE JELLY. 



Apple Jelly. 



I gallon of apples, cut in quarters. 

\ gallon of water. 

Simmer slowly till the mass can be rubbed through 
a sieve. To each quart put \\ lbs. of lump sugar, 
the juice of a lemon and its peel chopped small ; boil 
on a quick fire, pour into shapes, or jars, and serve 
with cream in a cream jug. 



Orange Jelly. 

Squeeze the juice of ten oranges and two lemons, 
taking care first to remove every pip, as, if a pip is 
allowed to remain in the orange, it will give a bitter 
flavour to the juice. 

Make a syrup of 3 lbs. loaf sugar, i quart water, 
and the white of an ^^^, Whisk in a sugar boiler, 
and let it boil five minutes, dashing in some cold 
water. Strain through a napkin into a basin. 

Rub two of the oranges with lumps of sugar, so 
as to obtain the zest, and mix with your juice. Add 
half a pint of boiling sugar-syrup, and strain through 
a flannel bag. When nearly cold add an ounce of 
clarified isinglass — that is, you wash an ounce of isin- 
glass in several waters ; you let it dissolve in i^ pints 
of water and simmer till it is reduced to ^ a pint ; 
strain through a silk sieve. This jelly may be made 
a richer colour by adding a {^^f^ drops of essence of 
cochineal ; it will not be a clear jelly like calf's feet. 
Choose a mould which is not too ornamented to turn 



ORANGE BASKETS. 403 

out well. If you have Ice, it is an advantage to stand 
your mould on the ice. Turn out. Garnish with 
quarters of oranges. 

As oranges and lemons yield uncertain quantities 
of juice, it may be necessary to use more. The 
orange must give the dominant flavour ; the lemons 
are added to enhance the flavour without being per- 
ceived when mixed with the oranges. 



Orange Baskets. 

Mark the handle of the basket evenly across the 
stalk end of the fruit with a blunt knife, the handle 
to be half an inch broad. Trace the rim of the basket 
b}- a line from one end of the handle to the other, 
exactly in the middle of the orange. Then take a 
penknife and cut through the rind on the traced lines ; 
but do not cut into the pulp. Now use the handle 



ORANGE BASKETS. 

part of a teaspoon to detach the pulp from the rind, 
and then the spoon to complete the operation. Press 
the pulp through the parts of the orange removed on 
each side of the handle. When the basket is com- 
plete, snip the edges so as to form Vandykes Run a 
little clarified butter over the inside of each basket to 



404 CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 

make it hold, fill with orange jelly, and dress on a 
napkin, with a thick slice of sponge cake in the 
centre, on which a middle group of baskets rests. 



Calf's Foot Jelly. 

The modern practice is to make wine jellies with 
preparations of gelatine or isinglass instead of using 
calf's foot stock as the basis. But this does not pro- 
duce the best kind of jelly. Calf's foot stock is made 
by boiling four feet, cleaned of all fat, in a gallon of 
water for six or seven hours. The whole is then to 
be carefully strained into an earthenware pan. When 
cold, the fat on the surface is removed and the jelly 
is broken up from the top, leaving the sediment at 
the bottom of the pan, and placed in another pan or 
basin. 

The gallon of water will produce about two quarts 
of stock, which must be white and clean, but which is 
not transparent. The flavouring and clearing are the 
next processes. As the calf's foot stock is not quite 
firm enough to receive the mixture of flavouring 
matter and bear moulding, it is necessary to put in 
from i to J oz. of Nelson's gelatine. For invalids no 
gelatine must be used, and the jelly is to be poured 
into a basin, and when cold sent up in broken pieces 
in glasses. 

The flavouring of wine jelly is to be sherry, 
brandy, sugar, lemon juice, and lemon peel. The 
sherry and brandy must be pale and of excellent 
quality, the lemons ripe, and the utmost care is 



CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 405 

desirable in removing the pips before squeezing out 
the juice. 

The clearing matters are the whites and the shells 
of eggs, and there must be a clean jelly bag of thick 
flannel and a stand, to which this is fastened. 

A bottle of sherry from which one wine-glass is 
taken, and a wine-glass of brandy added. 

The strained juice of 6 lemons ; 

The zest or rind of 3 lemons ; 

I lb. of lump sugar ; 

Whites and shells of 8 eggs (the shells cleaned 
and crushed) ; 

■J oz. of Nelson's gelatine to be added when the 
mixture begins to boil. 

The ingredients are placed in a large stewpan 
with the stock, and allowed to get hot on the side of 
the stove, then to boil gently and receive the gelatine 
without stirring. At the end of about sixteen minutes 
withdraw the stewpan, and let it stand a few minutes 
before pouring the whole into the jelly bag. A large 
basin with a lip is to stand under the jelly bag, and 
another similar basin is to be at hand. It is some- 
times necessary to pass the jelly six times through 
the bag before it is faultlessly clear. 

It is not to be poured into the mould till nearly 
cold. 

Very small fragments, mere dots, of gold or silver 
leaf may be mixed in, or the top of the mould may 
be decorated with little balls of pistachio nut pounded 
and mixed with jelly, or various kinds of fruit, grapes, 
strawberries, bits of pineapple may be used to orna- 
ment the mould. 



4o6 MINCEMEAT. 

An inexperienced cook or mistress had better 
limit her efforts to making jelly which Is clear and 
well-flavoured, which bears moulding and turning out 
without the defect of breaking to pieces, or the worse 
defect of being tough. 

Jellies with Liqueur Flavour. 

Dissolve in cold water some Nelson's gelatine — 2 
ozs. to a quart of water boiled till reduced to a pint. 
Sweeten slightly ; filter and let cool partially. Mix 
in a small wine-glass of liqueur, decorate a mould. 
Fill with the mixture, and place on the Ice. 

The liqueurs are — 

Noyau Punch 

Maraschino Curagoa 

Chartreuse Kirsch. 

Mincemeat. 

Mincemeat should be made four or five weeks 
before using, as it greatly improves by keeping. 

2 lbs. apples, pared and chopped ; 

j lb. beef suet, neatly cleaned and chopped small ; 

i lb. raisins ^ ^ | ^^^^^^^ ^^^ chopped ; 

\ lb. sultana raisins J 

I lb. currants, well washed and dried ; 

\ lb. mixed peel, chopped ; 

Juice and rind of one lemon, chopped ; 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon (if approved) ; 

2 lbs. sugar ; 

2 teaspoonsful salt ; 



MINCE PIES. 407 



1 . . V J [ To be added two days after 
^ pint brandy ^1 . _^i . • . _ i- ^ 1 

I glass sherry 1 



the other ingredients have 
been mixed. 



Mix thoroughly, and put in ajar ; cover, and keep 
in a cool place. 

Mince pies ought to be made in little tins the 
shape of a manger, not in round tins. The paste 
should be puff paste, under and over, and brandy is 
to be handed round, with a taper to set it alight 
before it is poured over the mince pie. 

Mincemeat No. 2. 

(A Norwich Recipe.) 

\ lb. beef ] free from skin and chopped 

2 lbs. suet I extremely fine ; 

\\ lbs. raisins, stoned and chopped ; 

i^ lbs. currants, washed and dried; 

Three Norfolk beefens ; 

\\ ozs. cinnamon ; 

J oz. mace ; 

-^ oz. nutmeg ; 

I lb. sugar ; 

A pinch of salt ; 

Juice and peel of one lemon. 

A little brandy and sherry to be added afterwards. 

Rich Mincemeat No. 3. 

J lb. fillet beef from the undercut of sirloin not 
cooked, chopped extremely fine ; 

2\ lbs. suet, picked, chopped, and sifted ; 



4c8 PLUM PUDDING. 

2\ lbs. currants, washed and dried ; 
i^ lbs. raisins, stoned, chopped ; 
\\ lbs. apples, chopped fine; 
2 lbs. loaf sugar ; 

Six large, or nine small lemons ; peel grated, juice 
squeezed ; 

\\ ozs. mixed spice ; 

\ oz. salt. 

A little brandy and sherry to be added afterwards. 

Plum Pudding. 

I lb. raisins 1 , , , , . , 

,, ^ \ washed, stoned, dried ; 

I lb. currants J 

I lb. suet, chopped fine ; 
\ lb. sugar, and a pinch of salt ; 
\ lb. mixed peel, chopped fine ; 
\ lb. breadcrumbs. 

Mix with six eggs and a gill of milk. 

Butter a mould, taking care to wash all salt out 
of the butter before using ; fill the mould with the 
pudding mixture ; place paper over and tie in a cloth. 

The plum pudding is to be put on in boiling 
water, and kept at the boil for five hours. 

Turn out on a napkin, and sprinkle the top with 
white sugar. 

Serve a brandy sauce in a sauce-boat ; or better 
than sauce, plain cream. 

Christmas Puddings for Twenty-six People. 

6 lbs. flour ; 

6 lbs. suet, chopped and sifted ; 



WINE SAUCE. 409 

4 lbs. raisins, stoned and chopped ; 

2 lbs. currants, carefully washed and dried ; 

1 tablespoonful ground ginger ; 
A little nutmeg ; 

A little salt ; 

2 lbs. treacle ; 
\ pint milk ; 

\ pint brandy ; 
Fifteen eggs. 

Thoroughly mixed and amalgamated. 

To be made into two or more puddings, and 
boiled in cloths for ten hours. Plum puddings should 
be made and boiled several days before they are 
served. 

Wine Sauce for Puddings. 

Six eggs, yolks only ; 
I oz. sugar ; 
\ pint sherry ; 
The zest of a lemon. 

Warm till the sauce is about the consistence of 
cream. 

If brandy is used instead of wine, it must be 
diluted with water, and the juice of a lemon added. 
A little more sugar will be required. 

Wine Sauce No. 2. 

Bring slowly to the boiling point \ pint of wine, 
then add to it the yolks of four eggs, and i cupful of 
sugar ; whip it on the fire until it is in a state of 
high froth, and a little thick ; remove, and use as 
required. 



4IO SWEET SAUCES. 

Wine Sauce No. 3. 

I pint water, i cupful sugar, i small teaspoonful 
arrowroot, I teaspoonful each of essence of lemon and 
cinnamon, \ gill white wine. 

Rum or brandy may be used instead of wine, and 
in that case the cinnamon is to be omitted. 



Fruit and Syrup Sauces. 

When fresh fruit is to be had, the flavour is far 
superior to that of preserved fruits. The fruit is to 
be made to give its juice by simmering in a saucepan. 
Pineapple and apricots must be simmered in a small 
quantity of water. The pulp or juice is passed 
through a tamis, sweetened to taste, and, if liked, 
flavoured by wine or lemon juice. 

When preserved fruit or fruit syrups are used, 
sugar is not added, 

(See also the chapter on ices for fruit mixtures.) 

Chaudeau Sauce. 

Take two whole eggs, six yolks of egg, eight 
ounces loaf sugar, each lump to be rubbed on lemon 
peel ; two pints Chablis, and the juice of half a 
lemon ; beat them over a slow fire till a light, thick 
froth is formed ; take the stewpan off the fire, just be- 
fore boiling point, and beat a little more. If small 
streaks like oil appear on the surface of the froth, you 
know that the sauce is ready. The flavour is very 
much heightened by adding a dessert-spoonful of rum 
or fine liqueur. 



SWEET SAUCES. 411 

Hard Sauce. 

1 cupful butter ; 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar ; 

Stir till of the consistency of cream ; then mix in 
j of a cupful of white wine, and the juice of a lemon. 

Beat long and hard till you have a nearly solid 
mass. Smooth with a knife, and stamp as you would 
a pat of butter. Keep on the ice till it is to be served 
with a pudding or tart. 

Brandy may be used instead oi white wine 

Apricot Sauce. 

Take a small pot of apricot marmalade and dis- 
solve it in I of a gill of water, with the juice of a 
lemon ; stir in | of a gill of rum. 

This sauce is always sent up with Baba. 

Greengage marmalade, or any fruit marmalade, 
may be used in place of apricot, and wine or brandy 
may be substituted for rum sauce. 

Whipped Sweet Sauce. 

The yolks of four eggs ; 
2 ozs. pounded sugar ; 
I glass sherry ; 
The juice of one lemon ; 
A grain of salt. 

Use a milk saucepan, whisk the sauce on the fire 
till it is a creamy froth, and pour over the pudding, 
or send up in a sauce tureen. 



.12 PRESERVES. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

PRESERVES. 

Fruit Jellies. 

Take any quantity of currants ; remove stems, &c., 
pass them through a cane sieve, put them in the 
preserving-pan on the fire, and stir with a wooden 
spoon till they begin to boil ; pass through a flannel 
bag to clarify. Ascertain how many pints of juice 
you have obtained, and add an equal quantity of sugar 
syrup. 

Sugar syrup is made by dissolving sugar in water, 
half a pint of water to I lb. sligar, boiling and 
skimming. 

Boil together the juice and syrup till the surface 
is covered with scum ; remove that and pour into 
pots. Next day cover the jelly with paper steeped in 
brandy, and the pot with parchment-paper. 

Vegetable parchment is a very efficient substitute 
for bladders or animal membrane ; it is sold in sheets 
as well as in covers the size of jars. The mode of 
using is to soak the parchment in water for a minute 
or two, to wipe off any superfluous moisture, and to 
stretch the cover over the jam-pot, and then tie string 



yAMS. 413 

round. The parchment dries and tightens itself over 
the pot. 

Cherries, raspberries, and black currants may be 
treated in the same way, but to each of these fruits a 
mixture of red currants must be added in the pro- 
portion of one to three. 

Jams. 

It is usual to allow | lb. sugar (white preserving) 
to I lb. of fruit. The fruit must be cleaned and 
cleared of stalks and stems, and must have been 
picked when quite ripe and quite dry. Put the fruit 
and sugar in the preserving-pan on the fire, stir 
together. Boil for about forty-five minutes, stirring 
and skimming ; and when scum ceases to rise, put 
the jam in pots. The skimmings are generally used 
to mix at once with fresh fruit puddings. 



Grape Jelly. 

Out-of-door grapes which ripen imperfectly may 
be used for making jelly, or small grapes where there 
is such an abundance that only the finest come to 
table. 

Strip them from their stalks, bruise slightly ; 
simmer on the fire (in a bain-marie stewpan) till 
they are wasted to a third; pass through a hair 
sieve ; put again on the fire, and reduce till of the 
consistency of fruit jelly. If the grapes are sweet 
enough, no sugar is wanted ; if not sweet enough, 
some sugar must be added for the second boiling. 



414 BARBERRY JELLY. 

If the grapes are not required to keep, a good dish 
is obtained by stewing them with sugar for a short 
time. 

Barberry Jelly. 

Strip the barberries from their stalks, put them in 
a bain-marie saucepan, or a milk stewpan, with 
enough water to cover them. After they have boiled 
for about a quarter of an hour, take them off the fire ; 
put them in a basin, and bruise with a wooden spoon ; 
pass through a hair sieve, weigh the juice thus ob- 
tained, and add its weight of sugar. Boil till bubbles 
rise all over the surface ; take off the fire, skim, and 
pour into pots. 

This jelly makes a delicious syrup for pudding 
a la mousseline, gateau of rice, and other puddings 
which are improved by the contrast of fruit to ^^% 
flavour. 

Quince Jelly. 

Pare and slice the quinces, and put into a preserv- 
ing-pan with sufficient water to float them. Boil 
until the fruit is reduced to a pulp. Strain off the 
clear juice, and to each pint allow i lb. loaf sugar. 
Boil the juice and sugar together for about three- 
quarters of an hour, removing all the scum as it rises. 
Test the jelly by pouring a little on a plate to see 
when it is firm enough. The residue left on the sieve 
will make a common marmalade for immediate use. 
by boiling every pound of pulp with \ lb. of common 
sugar. 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 415 

Allow three hours to boil the quinces in water, 
and three-quarters of an hour to boil the jelly. 

To Preserve Oranges whole. 

Take Seville oranges of the same size, make a 
slit an inch long in the sides ; set them to boil in a 
good deal of water, and change the water twice, so 
as to diminish the bitterness. The oranges must 
simmer till quite tender, care being taken that they do 
not break. When tender drain carefully on a sieve, 
and let them remain twelve hours, then simmer in 
very weak syrup for one hour. Drain from this syrup, 
and simmer in richer syrup till the oranges are semi- 
transparent. Before the oranges are quite finished a 
little brandy must be stirred into the syrup. 

The rich syrup is made by dissolving 2 lbs. loaf 
sugar in i pint water, and adding 2 ozs. ground ginger. 

The weak syrup, 6 ozs. sugar, and 2 ozs. ground 
ginger to i pint water. When the sugar is dissolved, 
the liquid is to be put in a stewpan, allowed to come 
to the boil, and skimmed. Then pour into a basin 
and use. 

Orange Marmalade. 

To every eight Seville oranges, allow twelve sweet 
oranges. 

Take off the rind of the Seville oranges in two or 
at most four parts, boil till tender in water enough 
to cover the rinds, drain and scrape away the white 
inner part, mix the juice and pulp of the Seville 
and sweet oranges. Be very careful to pick out the 



4i6 PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

pips before mixing. To each pound of this mixture 
put half a pint of water ; boil for two hours, adding a 
little more water as it wastes, and pass through a 
jelly bag. 

Cut the Seville rinds into thin fillets. Weigh them 
and weigh the strained pulp. Allow \\ lbs. sugar to 
each pound. Dissolve the sugar in the strained pulp. 
Add the fillets of rind, and simmer for twenty 
minutes. 

The rind and juice of one lemon may be added 
to every eight Seville oranges. The proper season 
for making marmalade in England is the spring. 

Pineapple Marmalade. 

The pineapple is now become so cheap at certain 
times of the year that it is quite worth while to store 
it up in the form of marmalade. Small pineapples 
are sold at the rate of sixpence apiece : these are 
good enough to make marmalade. 

Pare, slice, remove spots, cut into small pieces, 
weigh; put into an earthenware jar (or a milk sauce- 
pan) in a stewpan of water, and let it simmer till 
clear. Meanwhile prepare a sugar syrup by boiling 
2 lbs. sugar with a gill of water. The proportion of 
sugar to fruit is | lb. sugar to i lb. fruit. 

Mix the syrup and stewed fruit together, and boil 
for half an hour, stirring all the while. 

Apple Cheese. 

Boil three quarts of sound cider till they are re- 



FRUIT SYRUP. 417 

duced to two quarts. Pare, core, and slice up juicy 
pudding apples, and put them in a stewpan with 
enough of the cider to cover them ; as soon as they are 
quite tender take them out with a perforated spoon, 
and put in the cider a second quantity of sliced apple. 
Continue till the cider is all absorbed. Then place 
the whole mixture in an earthenware vessel. Let 
it stand for twelve hours ; put it in a preserving-pan, 
and boil down till it is of a rich brown colour, and of 
the consistency of porridge. 

Green Tomato Preserve. 

Cut the tomatoes into four or six pieces according 
to size, and take out the seeds. To every pound of 
fruit put I lb. loaf sugar, and \ oz. ginger, cut small. 
Dissolve the sugar in a little water, and let it simmer 
with the ginger for five minutes ; then add the fruit 
and boil till clear. This preserve has the colour and 
flavour of greengage. 

Fruit Syrup. 

4 Ibs^. red gooseberries, not quite ripe ; 

I lb. cherries ; 

\ lb. raspberries. 
Clean from stems, tips, stones, &c. ; bruise all together ; 
and place in a deep earthenware pan for twenty-four 
hours. Bruise with a wooden spoon, and squeeze with 
the hand ; then let the juice pass through a hair sieve, 
but do not rub the pulp through. Cleanse the sieve, 
and place over it a napkin ; run the juice through this so 

E E 



4i8 BRANDY CHERRIES. 

that it may be transparent ; to every pound of juice add 
i^ lbs. sugar. Let the sugar melt in the juice, then 
put the mixture in a jam pan, and boil ; remove the 
scum as it rises, and when it ceases to rise pour the 
syrup into a basin with a lip ; as soon as it is cool 
enough, bottle ; cork the next day, and keep in a 
cool place. The syrup may be made with red cur- 
rants and raspberries. 

Mixed Cherries in Brandy. 

Take 6 lbs. ripe cherries, remove the stems, extract 
the stones, break them, and return the kernels to the 
bruised cherries. Add i^ lbs. of sugar, and boil down 
to the consistency of syrup ; put in a large jar, and 
v/hen it is cold mix in two quarts of brandy, and 
add some cloves ; tie down the jar so that no air can 
get in. When the Morella cherries are ripe, strain the 
above preparation through a linen cloth, and then 
through filtering-paper. Prick the Morella cherries 
with a needle, and put them into the cherry syrup. 
If the syrup is not enough to cover them, more 
brandy must be added. Tie down so as to exclude 
the air. In about a month the cherries will be fit for 
eating. 

Brandy Cherries. 

Ripe Morella cherries must be used. If the skin 
is not quite clean, dip them in water as you proceed 
to cut off about half the stalk. Prick each cherry 
in two or three places with a needle, and throw them 
into a jar, which is to be filled with brandy. Let 



MILK PUNCH. 419 

them remain three days. Pour off the brandy, and 
to each pint add \ lb. sugar. Boil, and pour over 
your cherries. About six weeks later the cherries 
will probably require an additional quantity of the 
brandy and sugar syrup poured over them. The 
jars or bottles must be kept carefully corked and tied 
down, and the cherries are not fit for eating till they 
have been kept two months. 

Milk Punch. 

Steep the peels (pared very thin) of six Seville 
oranges and six lemons in two pints of rum for twenty- 
four hours. Pour sixteen pints of boiHng water upon 
6 lbs. of loaf sugar ; when dissolved add the juice and 
pulp oi thirty-two Seville oranges and twelve lemons. 
Next day add the peels as steeped, and eleven pints 
more rum and three of brandv, and stir well tocrether. 
Pour into it rather more than two quarts of new milk 
and two quarts of skimmed milk quite boiling, and 
cover down immediately without stirring. Let it stand 
till next day, and then strain through a jelly bag. If 
it does not run bright, a pint more boiling milk must 
be added, and it must be allowed to stand anothei 
day. 

Punch. 

I lb. loaf sugar ; 

I cup green tea ; 

3 small wine-glasses brandy ; 

3 small wine-glasses rum ; 

I bottle champagne ; 

3 lemons. 



420 ROMAN PUNCH. 

This mixture may be used for jellies, for sauces diluted 
with water, or it may be iced and mixed with soda 
water as a drink. 

Roman Punch. 

(Ponche a la Romaine.) 

3 cups lemonade ; 
I cup champagne ; 

1 cup rum ; 

2 oranges— juice. 

Whip the whites of two eggs with \ lb. powdered 
suq-ar till a firm froth. Mix with the above, and ice. 



'&' 



Orange Gin, 

Take the rind of six Seville and six large Tange- 
rine oranges peeled very thin. Put it into a gallon of 
unsweetened gin ; drop twenty drops of essential oil 
of orange on to a lump of sugar, and put it in the 
gin. Let it remain four days, then strain off the gin. 
Make a syrup of three pounds of sugar-candy pow- 
dered, to three pints of spring water, and the juice of 
the twelve oranges. Clear it, and add the syrup to 
the gin. Let it stand four days, then bottle and cork 
it well. 

Creme d'Orange. 

Infuse the rinds of six good oranges, pared very 
thin, in two bottles of the best brandy for a fortnight. 
Dissolve 2 lbs. lump sugar in one pint of water, and 
add it to the brandy. Pour in one pint skimmed milk 
quite boiling, and let it stand for twenty-four hours, 
then filter it, and bottle for use. 



CUP 421 

Chablis, &c. Cup. 

Take the thinly cut peel of one lemon, twelve 
lumps of sugar, two glasses golden sherry, a quart 
bottle of Chablis, and, if the flavour is liked, a sprig of 
borage. Stir well together and pour into the jug, 
which is to be placed on ice. Immediately before 
serving stir the mixture, and pour in two bottles of 
soda water. The practice of adding liqueur or brandy 
to ' cup ' is 7iot to be commended. 

Claret cup is made like Chablis cup, using claret 
instead of Chablis, and cider cup by using cider. 



422 ICES. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 



ICES. 



To make ices there must be a pewter freezing-pot and 
an ice-tub, rough ice and freezing salt. Ice alone 
will not become a freezing medium, for ice is never 
colder than 32° Fahrenheit. In order, therefore, to 
produce a freezing medium — ie. a degree of cold that 
will communicate frost to another liquid — it is found 
that common salt, in the proportion of one-half of the 
ice used, stirred up together, will effect the object, 
inasmuch as this mixture will reduce the temperature 
to zero. 

Few persons have the slightest notion of how ices 
have been produced, the prevalent idea being that a 
quantity of cream and juice is put into a pot or mould, 
which is imbedded in freezing mixture until frozen ; 
nothing can be more erroneous. Ice creams, &c., 
require to be whipped up, or churned, during congela- 
tion, with great care. 

The old process was to place the freezing-pots in 
the tub surrounded with ice, to turn the pots in the 
tub, and the cream or syrup in the pot, for nearly an 
hour. 

There are now machines which allow of the ne- 



ICES. 



423 



cessary agitation, both outside and inside the freezing- 
pot, being given with a far less expenditure of time 
and trouble. With these 
machines there are expla- 
nations how each is to be 
used. It is only necessary 
to add, therefore, that when 
the machine is laid by, and 
again a little time before 
it is used, an examination 
of the parts should be made 
to see that they are in work- 
ing order. 



Ices come to 
a large mould. 




ICE MACHINE. 



table 
m a large mouia, as in 
ice puddings ; in a heaped -up mass, as for dessert, or 
in small china cups ; or again, in very small moulds, 
each guest taking one. 

Great care is required, when ice is prepared in 
these smaller quantities, that the salt mixture should 
not get inside, and give a taste ; and in hot weather, the 
greater liability to melt is a reason against the sending 
up ice in little quantities. 

Ices may also be served in a frarrie of sponge 
cakes, or wafers. These devices add to the difficulty 
of sending up ice in a good state, and in no Vv'ay im- 
prove its flavour. Sponge rusks or wafers are always 
handed round with ices, but are not necessarily handed 
round with ice puddings. 



424 



ICES, 



Custard for Ice Puddings. 

Take half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, 
and stir in the yolks of eight fresh eggs. Have ready 
a milk saucepan, and warm the mixture, stirring all 
the time. Do not let it boil, or it will form curds 
When the mixture is of the usual consistency of cus- 
tard, take it off the fire, add ^ lb. of powdered 
sugar, and a flavouring of vanilla, lemon, ratafia, 
noyau, or maraschino. Strain through a sieve, and 
use for ice puddings. 

To this mixture can be added glace cherries, or 
any dried fruits cut into fragments not larger than 
cherries, or bits of preserved ginger, or of pineapple. 

The pudding mixture is poured into the freezing- 
pot, which is imbedded in the mixture of rough ice 
and salt, and the necessary movement of the pot in 
the ice and the pudding in the pot must be carried 
on, either by the movement of the hand, or with the 
help of a machine. The implement for stirring the 
pudding mixture is called a spaddle or a stirrer ; as 
the freezing inside the pot goes on, the mixture must 
be withdrawn from the sides, and moved towards the 
centre, so that no lumps or hard bits are formed. The 
mixture when frozen must be as smooth and homo- 
geneous as if it had been passed through a tamis. 
When the mixture has attained this consistence, and 
is thoroughly frozen, put it in the pudding mould, 
which must first be chilled in rough ice. Close the 
mould, and imbed in ice till wanted. 



ICES. 425 

Fruit Ices. 

These can be mixed either with cream, or with 
syrupj in which case they are called ' water ices.' 

The fruit must be reduced to a pulp, strained 
through a sieve, and, if deficient in flavour, lemon juice 
must be added. 

Fleshy fruits must be boiled to a pulp, and passed 
through a tamis. Fruits which easily give up their 
juice can be bruised or squeezed, and passed through 
the tamis or sieve without boiling. 

Jam or preserved fruits can be used instead of 
fresh fruit ; the flavour is less good ; rather more lemon 
juice is required. 

Water ices should always be made with fresh 
fruit. Cream ices can be made with either kind. 

Whenever it is found that the mj'xture does not 
freeze quickly in working the freezer, it is because there 
is too much syrup in it, and therefore a proportionate 
quantity of liquid, according to the description of ice 
you are making, must be added. 

To make syrup, use i lb. loaf sugar to i pint of 
water. Boil it hard for twenty minutes, and then 
clarify with the white of an ^gg ; when cold, bottle it 
and keep it for use. 

Fruits used for Ices. 

Green Gooseberries ; 
Rhubarb ; 
Strawberries ; 
Raspberries and Currants ; 



426 ICES. 

Cherries ; Currants, red or black ; 

Cranberries ; 

Apricots ; 

Peaches ; 

Chestnuts ; 

Oranges and Lemons ; 

Grapes ; 

Pineapple. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

Dissolve 4 ozs. of the best chocolate in warm 
water. If the chocolate is not already sweetened, add 
sugar, and stir into a pint of cream, or cream and milk. 
Strain through a sieve, and w^hen cold pour into the 
freezing-pot. 

Coffee ice cream is made by using coffee instead 
of chocolate. 

Tea can also be used as the flavouring material. 



't3 



Pineapple Ice Cream. 

To i lb. of preserved pineapple, or a raw pine- 
apple pounded with sugar, add sugar and lemon juice 
to taste, one pint of cream, and a little new milk ; 
mix ; freeze. One quart. 



Custard for Ices. 

Stir the yolks of eighteen eggs well, with or with- 
out sugar, then put three pints and a half of cream, or 
milk, and any ingredients, with any flavour that you 
may prefer. Place it on a moderate fire, and stir it 



ICES. 427 

continually with a spoon or whisk, until the mixture 
be combined, and of the consistency of a thick cream, 
taking care not to let it boil ; afterwards pass it 
through a sieve, and when it is cold freeze it. When 
nearly frozen, put into it a plate of meringue paste, 
which is made with the whites of four eggs beaten up 
to a firm froth, and three spoonsful of syrup or pow- 
dered sugar. This meringue mixture must be put 
into all ices, except liquid ices, to make them smooth 
and light. 

Acid Fruits. 

Take the rind off eight or ten lemons, oranges, or 
citrons, &c. Put the rind of two into a basin, squeeze 
the juice of the lemons into the basin with the skins, 
add 24 ozs. of sugar and three glasses of water ; 
clarify the sugar with the water at ' point lisse.' ^ Mix 
all together, and let it infuse for half an hour, well 
covered up ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. 

The proportions here indicated will make two 
quarts of this and every other description of ice. 

Ices from Fruits. 

For each two quarts of ice, squeeze from 30 to 
36 ozs. of fruit of any description, and pass it through 
a sieve with two glasses of water ; afterwards put 
24 ozs. of sugar in syrup, with the juice of two or 

' ' Point lisse,' or a thread, is when the syrup becomes a thread if 
drawn out with the finger and thumb ; a small quantity being put in a 
cup to be thus tested. 



428 ICES. 

three lemons ; add flavour and colour to such fruits as 
may require them ; then pass the whole through a 
sieve, and freeze it. 

Such fruits as quinces, pears, apples, peaches, apri- 
cots, &c., require to be cooked with light syrup ; of 
these two last add a few of the kernels of the stones 
pounded. 

Tea Cream Ice. 

To 1 8 ozs. pounded sugar, in syrup, ' a la plume,' ^ 
put a pint of strong green tea, and let it boil a 
short time ; then add a pint and a half of cream, two 
pints of good milk, and a little cinnamon water. Mix 
the whole together and freeze it. With the same pro- 
portions you may use coffee, chocolate, &c., instead of 
tea. If you wish it of more consistence, add 24 ozs. 
of sugar. The mixture is not to be stirred, but to be 
kept in motion by gently rolling the vessel in which 
it is simmered. 

Different Sorts of Plain Ice Cream. 

Boil three pints of cream, a pint of milk, 24 ozs. 
pounded sugar, or syrup, ' a la plume,' all together, 
then pass the mixture through a sieve, and add flavour 
to your taste. When nearly frozen, put in a small 
quantity of praline flowers, preserved fruit in pieces, 

' ' A la plume' may be known by dipping the skimmer into the 
syrup, shaking it and blowing through the holes ; a large quantity of 
bubbles will form when the syrup is a feather or ' a la plume. ' 



ICES. 429 

or almonds, chestnuts, or pistachio nuts, &c. ; cut in 
slices and simmer in syrup, and name the ice accord- 
ingly. 

Ginger Water Ice. 

Take 6 ozs. of preserved ginger, and pound it with 
a little raw ginger ; make two quarts of lemonade ; 
mix them together, and add meringue paste, and 
freeze it ; put less syrup, and do not work it much 
if for drinking. 

Bavaria Ice Cream. 

Add a mixture of custard {see CuSTARD FOR ICES), 
put a flavour of coffee, chocolate, or cinnamon, and 
freeze it. 

Chinese Ice. 

Beat up the yolks of thirty eggs well with 24 ozs. 
of powdered sugar ; add 4 ozs. of pistachio nut paste, 
well pounded with half the white of an Qgg ; put in three 
half- pints of water ; simmer it until it comes to the con- 
sistency of cream, taking care that it does not boil, as 
if so the eggs will turn ; colour it, and put the flavour 
you require ; afterwards pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it. Small pieces of any preserved fruit may 
then be added. 



Pineapple Water Ice. 

Peel and cut a pineapple, put it into a mortar with 
6 ozs. of sugar, and pound it well ; put to it a pint of 



430 ICES. 

water ; after having mixed it well, let it stand, and 
cover it up for an hour. Pass the mixture through a 
sieve, and add the juice of five lemons or oranges, 
with 24 ozs. of syrup ' a lisse ; ' freeze it. 

Coffee Water Ice. 

Roas 8 ozs. of good Mocha coffee, and infuse it in 
half a pint of water for six hours, well covered up ; 
then pass it through a sieve, add 24 ozs. of sugar syrup 
* a lisse,' and freeze it. 

Chocolate Water Ice. 

Mix 24 ozs. of good chocolate in powder, with 
12 ozs. of pounded sugar, with three pints of water, 
and make it like chocolate ; stir it well, pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it. This may be varied 
by putting the yolks of eight or ten eggs with the 
same quantity of water, stirring it well. 

Cinnamon Water Ice. 

Crush i^ozs. cinnamon, put it into i|^ pints of boil- 
ing water, and cover it well. When it is cold, add 
30 ozs. of syrup ' a lisse,' and freeze it. Saffron water 
ice and clove water ice may be made in the same way, 
adding slices of candied fruit. 

Pistachio Water Ice. 

Blanch and clean from 18 to 24 ozs. of pistachio, 
pound them well, and put in a pint of water ; pass it 



ICES. 431 

through a sieve, and add 30 ozs. of syrup * a Hsse,' and 
flavour and colour to your taste ; then freeze it. 



Almond Water Ice. 

Make a paste of almonds, 24 or 30 ozs., pounded 
well, and adding from time to time a little water to 
prevent the almonds turning into oil. Add flavour 
to taste, some pieces of glace fruit, and freeze. 



List of Cream Ices and their accompanying 
Water Ices. 

Plain cream Apricot water 

Almond „ Orange „ 

Brown bread cream Strawberry „ 

Vanilla „ Raspberry „ 

Custard „ Black currant water 

Pistachio „ Peach „ 

Green tea „ Lemon „ 

Noyau „ Mille fruits „ 



Ices which should be eaten alone. 

Chocolate cream ice 

Coffee „ 

Rhubarb „ 

Green gooseberry cream ice 

Pineapple „ 



432 



ICES. 



Parfait au Chocolat. 




MOULD A PAR- 
FAIT, 



Make a chocolate cream, with 
the addition of ten eggs ; let it just 
heat on the fire, then pass through 
a tamis ; ice this mixture, working 
in a little whipped cream and syrup. 
When a smooth ice custard is ob- 
tained, put it in a plain and rather 
tall mould, known in Paris as a 
mould a parfait. Keep the mould 
in ice for two hours ; remove the 
mould, and send up on a napkin. 
Any other flavour may be substi- 
tuted for chocolate. 



BREAD AND CAKES, 433 



CHAPTER XXX. 
BREAD AND CAKES, 

Fine flour is not so wholesome as that called 
household, or seconds, and the entire wheat meal 
ground fine enough for it to pass through an i8-mesh 
wire sieve, is best for the ' daily bread.' For cakes, 
scones, &c., the kinds of flour called ' Hungarian,' or 

* American,' should be used. 

For good brown bread, the husks have been 
ground by themselves, and then replaced with the 
flour already ground ; so that all the parts of the 
grain are made into bread, after each part has re- 
ceived the treatment suitable to produce a flour which 
will mix and bake satisfactorily. Coarsely-ground 

* whole meal ' contains all the nourishment of the 
wheat, but its general use is objectionable owing to 
the presence of coarse particles. 

Flour should be perfectly dry before being used. 
If there is any doubt, place it before the fire till it 
feels quite dry. 

To achieve success in making bread and cakes, 
the cook must use judgment and care. Some flour 
requires more water or milk than others, so that 
the quantity may have to be varied to make the 

F F 



434 BREAD. 

dough of a proper consistency. Different bakings 
will vary as to the time and heat required, and should, 
therefore, be examined occasionally. To ascertain 
whether the bread is sufficiently done in the centre of 
the loaf or cake, thrust a clean straw or long thin 
splinter into it ; if done, there w^ill be no dough on 
it when drawn out. Always measure the flour, and 
put the baking powder into it before sifting. Water 
for milk, or milk for water, butter for lard, or lard 
for butter, may always be substituted. The number 
of eggs may be increased or diminished, or they may 
be dispensed with entirely. Where fewer eggs are 
used than directed, a little more yeast pow^der is re- 
quired. 

When yeast is used, it is essential that it should 
be good and fresh. Stale yeast produces an acetous fer- 
mentation and a disagreeable flavour. A poor thin 
yeast produces imperfect fermentation and a heavy 
unwholesome loaf Too small a proportion of yeast, or 
insufficient time allowed for the dough to rise, makes 
the bread heavy. 

When yeast is not obtainable, yeast powder is a 
satisfactory substitute, but the proportion indicated 
by the makers of the various yeast powders must not 
be exceeded. 

Cooks who are accustomed to use German yeast 
often do not know how to use brewer's yeast. In 
giving orders it is important to ascertain which the 
cook can deal with, but brewer's yeast makes by far 
the best bread. 



BREAD. 435 



Home-made Bread. 

Mix good brewer's yeast with water and a little 
salt. The water is to be made tepid by allowing a 
quarter of. the quantity to be boiling and three- 
quarters cold. Put the flour, which is to be whole 
meal properly ground and mixed by the miller, in a 
tub. Make a hole in the flour and pour in the yeast 
mixture, cover the tub with cloths, place it in front 
of the kitchen fire at lo P.M., and let the sponge 
remain there all night. Next morning knead the 
mixture, the hands used for kneading being faultlessly 
clean. There must be no lumps or knots of unmixed 
flour. Let the dough remain covered for three hours, 
then knead again and make into loaves. Heat a 
brick oven with wood faggots, test the heat with a 
bit of dough, sweep out the oven, put in the loaves, 
put up the door, and place wood ashes outside to 
prevent air getting in. After half an hour open the 
door, turn and separate the loaves, close the door as 
before, and let the loaves bake for one hour and a 
half more, that is, two hours altogether. In bread 
thus baked, each loaf has a rich brown crust all over. 

A 2 -lb. loaf requires about 

1 lb. 8 ozs. flour ; 
10 ozs. water ; 

2 ozs. salt ; 
\ oz. yeast. 

Making and baking bread are processes which 
require more explanation than it is easy to give 

F F 2 



436 BREAD. 

without the processes being carried on at the same 
time. It is therefore desirable for the cook to take a 
lesson from a practical baker using the same yeast 
and the same kind of oven she is to continue to use. 

Bread. 

3i lbs. seconds flour ; 
I oz. German yeast ; 
Half a saltspoonful salt. 

Put the flour in a large pan. Mix the yeast with a 
gill of tepid water, and stir in a basin till it is a stiff 
paste. Then add ij pints water, stir smoothly, and 
add the salt Then mix this with the flour, and work 
lightly together with the hands. 

Bake either as a loaf, or in a tin, or a Sheffield 
baking-pan. {See illustration on p. 215.) 

Vienna Rolls. 

Have ready in a bowl a tablespoonful of butter or 
lard ; make it soft by warming a little and stirring 
with a spoon. Take i quart unsifted flour, add to 
it 2 heaped-up teaspoonsful Yeatman's yeast powder, 
then mix and sift them thoroughly together, and 
place in the bowl with the butter. Take about 
one pint of milk, mix in \ teaspoonful of salt, and 
then stir it into the flour, &c., with a spoon, 
forming the dough, turn out on a board, and knead 
sufficiently to make smooth. Roll out half an inch 
thick, and cut with a large round cutter. Then 



ROLLS. 437 



fold each one over to form a half round, wetting a 
little between the folds to make them stick together. 
Place them on buttered tins, so as not to touch, wash 
them over on the top with milk to give them a gloss, 
and then bake immediately in a hot oven about twenty- 
minutes. 

French Rolls. 
I quart flour ; 

1 teaspoonful salt ; 

2 teaspoonsful Yeatman's yeast powder ; 
I tablespoonful lard ; 

Nearly i pint milk. 

Sift the flour, salt, and powder together thoroughly ; 
rub in the lard cold, add the milk, and mix into a 
rather firmer dough than ordinary. Flour the board, 
turn out the dough, and immediately give it one or 
two quick vigorous kneadings to complete its smooth- 
ness and quality. Divide it into pieces the size 
of an Ggg, and each piece in half, which yoU form 
under the hands into the appearance of short thick 
rolls tapering sharply at each end. Put two of these 
pieces together side by side, pinching the ends 
together a little ; lay them on a buttered baking-tin, 
wash over with milk. Bake in a hot oven fifteen 
m.inutes. 

Muffins. 

I quart flour ; 

\ teaspoonful sugar ; 

I „ salt ; 



438 RICE MUFFINS. 

2 large teaspoonsful Yeatman's yeast powder ; 
i^ pints milk. 

Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder, add the 
milk, and mix into a smooth batter a trifle stiffer 
than for girdle cakes. Have the girdle heated 
equally all over, grease it, and lay on the muffin 
rings, half fill them, and when risen well up to the 
top of the rings, turn over gently with a cake turner. 
They should not be too brown, just a buff colour. 
When they are all cooked, pull each open in half, 
toast delicately, butter them well. Serve on a folded 
napkin, piled high and very hot. 

Rice Muffins. 

Mix the following ingredients : — 

I pint flour ; 

I teacupful boiled rice ; 

I quart milk ; 

I tablespoonful butter ; 

1 teaspoonful salt ; 

2 eggs, beat up. 

Make into thin cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Soda Cake. 

Work 6 ozs. of butter well into i lb. of flour ; add 
\ lb. of sifted sugar, \ pint of boiling milk, the yolks 
of three well-whisked eggs, and, if approved, a little 
grated nutmeg. 

Beat the whole well and lightly together for about 
a quarter of an hour. Add a very small teaspoonful 



BUNS. 439 

of carbonate of soda, well dried. Beat it again for a 
few minutes, then bake it for an hour and a half. 
Add raisins and peel according to taste. 

Bath Buns. 

i cupful butter ; 

l^ cupsful sugar/; 

2 eggs ; 

i^ teaspoonsful heaped up of Yeatman's yeast 
powder ; 

\ cupful candied lemon-peel, cut in small thin 
slices ; 

i^ pints flour ; 

^ pint milk. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a smooth, light 
cream ; add the eggs, beat a few minutes longer ; 
then add the flour, with the powder sifted in it, the 
lemon-peel, and milk. Mix into a moderately firm 
batter. Lay well-greased muffin rings on a greased 
baking-tin, and put a large spoonful into each. Sift 
sugar on them, and bake fifteen minutes in a hot 
oven. 

Currant Buns. 

i\ pints flour ; 
■J pint milk ; 
\ teaspoonful salt ; 

^ teaspoonful heaped up of Yeatman's yeast 
powder ; 

i lb. butter ; 

\ lb. moist sugar ; 

\ lb. currants, or sultana raisins. 



440 CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mix well together the flour, salt, and yeast pow- 
der, then melt the butter in the milk (cold), which add 
with the sugar to the flour, &c., and make into a 
dough, after which add the currants or raisins. Bake 
in a buttered tin in a hot oven. 



Brioche Buns. 

I lb. flour ; 

I oz. German yeast. 

Set it to rise with a little warm water. Put \ lb. of 
butter into a stewpan with a teacupful of milk ; let 
it be just warm ; add to this four well-beaten eggs, 
then with a spoon mix it with the flour and yeast into 
a thick batter. Let it stand in a warm place for an 
hour, then add a little pounded sugar, and either 
seeds or currants. Mould it into buns, or bake it in 
a cake ; but be quite sure it has risen after being 
made into buns. Wash the tops with beaten ^g^. 
It should be baked in a quick oven. 

Chocolate Cake. 

\ lb. butter ; 

\ lb. chocolate a la vanille ; 

\ lb. sifted sugar ; 

\ lb. almonds pounded ; 

I teaspoonful sal volatile ; 

7 eggs ; 

3 ozs. flour. 
Beat the butter to a cream, scrape the chocolate, and 
heat in oven. Then beat the chocolate and flour into 
the butter, and stir in the almonds and sal volatile. 



STRASBOURG CAKE. 441 

Beat yolks and whites separately, working in the 
yolks before the whites. 

Bake in a slow oven for about 2\ hours, and keep 
three or four days before cutting. 



Strasbourg Cake, 

I lb. fresh butter ; 
I lb. powdered sugar ; 
I lb. almonds ; 

1 cup milk ; 

2 yolks eggs. 

Make a custard with the milk and eggs, and let it 
cool. Pound the almonds, and gradually work in the 
custard, as else the almonds will turn to oil ; then 
mix thoroughly with the butter and sugar ; line a 
buttered mould with finger sponge-cakes, pour in the 
almond mixture, put a buttered paper and a light 
weight on it, and bake for twenty-four hours. 



Plain Cake. 

Rub I lb. good beef dripping, or lard, into 3 lbs. of 
flour. Add i lb. raw sugar, caraway seeds to taste, 
or spice, if preferred. Dissolve 3 teaspoonsful car- 
bonate of soda in i quart sour buttermilk. Mix the 
whole into a light dough. Let it stand a short time 
before the fire to rise, then put it quickly into a tin 
lined with buttered paper, and bake in a slow oven. 
If a richer cake is desired, add chopped peel, or 
currants and raisins, and three or four eggs. 



442 CAKE. 

Cake without Eggs. 

I lb. currants ; 

I lb. flour ; 

\ lb. brown sugar ; 

6 ozs. butter ; 

3 ozs. candied lemon peel ; 

3 „ orange peel ; 

I breakfast cupful new milk ; 

I teaspoonful mixed ground spices ; 

I „ ginger ; 

I teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 

Melt the butter in the milk on the fire, and pour it 
into a basin with the other ingredients. Mix tho- 
roughly with tJie hands. Bake in a tin with buttered 
paper. The tin should be filled only half full. 

Kiigelhiipfe. 

\ lb. butter ; 

5 eggs ; 

A tablespoonful sugar; 

A teaspoonful salt ; 

Milk ; 

German yeast. 
Beat the butter to a cream, dredge in a heaped table- 
spoonful of flour, and stir in one <t%% ; beat together. 
Go on with a spoonful of flour and an ^gg till the five 
eggs are worked in. Take German yeast the size of a 
walnut, and dissolve it in warm milk, mix in the sugar 
and salt, and work it all into the paste. Half fill a tin 
which has been buttered and coated with breadcrumbs. 



GIMBLETTES. 443 

Set it to rise in a warm place for two hours. Bake in 
a moderate oven for half an hour, or till done. 



Gimblettes. 

6 ozs. sugar ; 

6 ozs. flour (Hungarian) ; 

3 eggs ; 

Some zest of lemon. 

Break and beat up the eggs, add the sugar and lemon 
and work well together, dredge in the flour. The paste 
must be neither too stiff nor too soft ; therefore do not 
work in all the flour till it is clear that all is required. 
Roll out the paste and form it into rings, have a basin 
of boiling water, and drop the rings into it. Take 
them out as they rise on the water ; drain on a nap- 
kin placed on a sieve ; bake them in a slow oven, 
take out, coat with white of ^gg, and just let them 
dry in the oven. 

Queen's Cakes. 

\\ lbs. flour (Hungarian) ; 

I lb. butter ; 

I lb. sugar ; 

12 eggs; 

\ lb. currants ; 

The zest of 2 lemons. 

Rub the butter to a cream, add the sugar and the 
zest of the lemons. Whisk this mixture for fifteen 
minutes, then work in 3 eggs well beaten, and let the 
paste rest for five minutes, and proceed in the same 
way till all the eggs are worked in. Then mix in the 



444 GINGERBREAD. 

currants, lastly the flour, stirring for several minutes. 
Make into cakes the size of a half-crown. Bake in a 
hot oven, placing some folded paper under them. 

Gingerbread. 

if lbs. flour ; 

l^ lbs. treacle ; 

\ oz. powdered ginger ; 

\ lb. butter ; 

The peel of i lemon pounded. 

Mix well together, and let it stand in a warm place 
for two or three hours. Divide into three parts, lay 
one piece at a time on the pastry board well floured. 
Roll and rub till it is no thicker than a crown piece ; 
butter your baking-tin, lay each piece on it, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Fruit Gingerbread Cake. 

5 teacupsful flour ; 

I „ treacle ; 

I „ sugar ; 

I „ melted butter ; 

\ lb. raisins ; 

\ lb. curants ; 

\ lb. peel ; 

\ lb. ginger ; 

I teaspoonful coriander seed ; 

1 tablespoonful caraway seed ; 

2 tablespoonsful vinegar ; 

I teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 

Warm the treacle and butter, then mix with the other 



GINGERBREAD. 445 

ingredients, and bake in a mould in a slow oven for 
an hour and a half. 



Gingerbread Nuts. 

The proportions are : 
\ lb. butter ; 
\ lb. coarse sugar ; 
l\ lbs. treacle ; 
\\ lbs. flour ; 
\\ ozs. powdered ginger. 

Mix well together into a smooth paste. Cut into 
discs about \\ inches in diameter, and bake on a 
buttered tin. 

Thick Gingerbread. 

I lb. treacle ; 
\ lb. butter ; 
\ lb. raw sugar ; 

Melt over the fire ; let it cool, then add 

1 lb. flour ; 

2 ozs. ground ginger ; 
I oz. caraway seeds ; 
\ lb. citron ; 

A dessert-spoonful carbonate of soda ; 
4 Gggs, well beaten. 

To be baked in a moderately hot oven. 

(The above recipe was given to a friend by Mrs. Joanna Baillie, ) 



446 SCONES. 

Scones. 

(Ross-shire.) 

Flour, butter, milk, equal quantities, thoroughly 
mixed, rolled thin, cut into rounds, and baked on a 
girdle for fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Scones. 

(Sir Henry Thompson.) 

2 lbs. whole meal flour ; 

J- lb. fine flour ; 

A pinch of salt ; 

2 ozs. butter ; 

Some Yeatman's yeast powder ; 

Milk, or buttermilk ; or milk and water. 

Mix and work together. Make into flat cakes. Bake 
in a quick oven till the surface looks done, and let 
them finish at a lower temperature in front of the 
fire or on the girdle ; to be half an inch thick when 
cooked. 

Scones. 

Cream scones may be made with either white or 
brown flour. They must be baked on a girdle. 

Heat half a pint of good cream, and when it comes 
to the boil dredge in the flour, till you have a thickish 
paste ; stir carefully all the time. Season with a little 
salt. Turn the paste out on a floured board ; roll to 
the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; cut with a cir- 
cular cutter. The girdle must be heated meanwhile 
over a clear red fire. Lay the scones on the girdle, 
turn when done on one side, and bake the other. 



SCONES. 447 

Five minutes ought to do each side, as they are to be 
limp, net crisp. Serve in a napkin, so folded as to 
keep in the heat. Enough for four persons. 

Crisp Brown Scones. 

Use brown bread flour for these scones, which are 
best when made with cream. In default of cream use 
milk, and add a little butter to give richness. Season 
with salt. Warm the cream, and as it warms dredge 
in the flour, and stir as if to make porridge. Keep 
stirring till the mixture is a smooth paste. Roll out 
on a floured board, cut into circles as is directed in 
water scones, and bake on the girdle. These scones 
are to be crisp ; the colour a rich brown, but they 
must not be allowed to get dark by too great heat. 

Plain Water Scones. 

Put a small quantity of white flour in a basin, and 
knead it into a paste with boiling water. Work it 
well with the hand so that the paste is perfectly 
smooth. Roll out this paste on a floured board to 
the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and cut with a 
circular cutter (or a tumbler), allowing three scones to 
each guest. Bake on an iron girdle. As soon as one 
side has set, turn, and let the other bake. About five 
minutes is enough to bake these scones, as they are 
to be limp and tender. Fold a napkin, so that the 
heap of scones can be placed inside (like chestnuts), 
and serve at once. 



448 SCONES. 

Water Scones. 

Water scones should be made with white flour. 

Mix in a basin flour and butter, in the proportion 
of a walnut of butter to J lb. of flour, work them well 
together. Season with salt ; if the butter is salt, that 
may be seasoning enough. Pour in boiling water 
enough to make a paste. Turn out on the board, 
work well with the hand ; then roll out rather less 
than a quarter of an inch thick, cut into circular cakes. 
Bake on the girdle. 

Barleymeal scones made in the same way are a 
pleasing variety. 



Cocked Hats. 



i lb flour 



i lb. butter ; 

A pinch salt ; 

I teaspoonful carbonate of soda ; 

Buttermilk, or new milk just warmed. 
Rub the butter, salt, and soda well into the flour, and 
then beat it up with the tepid milk. Roll into paste 
a quarter of an inch thick, cut into three-cornered 
pieces (about a four-inch square, cut in two from 
corner to corner), and bake in a moderately hot oven 
for a quarter of an hour, or till done. 

Girdle Cakes. 

(American Recipe.) 

Beat 2 eggs, yolk and white, into some warm 
milk ; add I pint of Indian corn meal, and mix it 
well with a spoon ; there must be enough milk to 



BREAKFAST CAKES. 449 

enable the whole to be poured out of the saucepan on 
to the girdle ; add a spoonful of wheat flour, and lard 
or butter the size of a walnut. The girdle is a flat 
round iron of any size, standing on three legs. It 
must not be made very hot, or it will burn the cakes ; 
it must be perfectly clean and greased while warm, so 
that the cakes may be easily turned and done brown 
on both sides. The batter is usually poured from the 
saucepan on to the girdle until it spreads to the size 
of the bottom of a breakfast plate for each cake. 



Indian Meal Breakfast Cakes. 

Pour boiling water into a quart of Indian corn 
meal. Stir it until it is a paste, add two w^ell-beaten 
eggs, and milk enough to make it a thick batter ; add 
a little salt. Butter some square tin pans ; fill them 
two-thirds full, and bake in a quick oven. When 
done, cut in squares, and serv^e hot. 



G G 



450 BEEF TEA. 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

Beef Tea. 

Take equal weights of the best gravy beef and of cold 
water. 

Cut the meat into pieces about an inch square. 
Let them soak in the cold water for an hour, then 
place in a jar in the oven, which must be moderately 
hot, for half an hour. 

Beef Tea No. 2. 

I lb. of quite fresh (that is, newly killed) beef, the 
part which is called gravy beef ; 
5 drops muriatic acid ; 
A pinch of salt ; 
I pint cold water. 

Cut the beef into small pieces, and let it soak in 
the water, into which the acid and salt have been 
stirred, till all the juice of the beef is extracted. 
Strain the liquid through muslin, and serve in a 
coloured wine-glass. It should be made fresh evcr>' 
day. 



MEAT TEA. 451 

Liebig's Extractum Carnis. 

The proportion is about one ounce of the extrac- 
tum to two quarts of water. 

It must never be boiled, but stirred into boiling 
water. 

For delicate stomachs it is more nourishing when 
mixed with arrowroot, sago, tapioca, or vermicelli. 

These additions are to be cooked in water and 
seasoned with salt and pepper if allowed, and the 
extract must be stirred in when the arrowroot or 
other farina is boiling hot. 

Liebig's extractum must always be used in quanti- 
ties below rather than above the mark, or a coarse, 
bitter flavour is apparent. 

Meat Teas and Drinks. 

\\ lbs. mutton, veal, or beef free from fat gristle, 
or bone ; 

1 quart cold water ; 

2 ozs. rice; 
Salt to taste. 

Simmer four hours ; strain ; serve a small quan- 
tity at a time. 

Meat Teas and Drinks No. 2. 

I lb. gravy beef, minced fine ; 
i\ pints cold water. 

Place in an earthen jar in the oven for three hours ; 
strain through muslin. 



452 COLD BEEF TEA. 

Meat Teas and Drinks No. 3. 

I lb. mutton ; 

I lb. veal ; 

Half a chicken, the bones to be broken ; 

1 calf s foot ; 

2 quarts water ; 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Simmer till a jelly. 



Cold Beef Tea. 

One ounce Liebig's extract is to be stirred into 
four pints of boiling water. It is to be allowed to 
grow cold, or even to be chilled with ice. 

A Nourishing Drink. 

3 ozs. brandy ; 

5 ozs. water ; 

3 eggs ; 
are to be stirred together, and a teaspoonful at a 
time to be given to the patient. 

A Nourishing Drink No. 2. 

Two wine-glasses of sherry or madeira are to be 
stirred into half a pint of boiling milk. The mixture 
is to be strained through a silk sieve, so as to get 
rid of the curd. 



CHICKEN JELLY. 453 

Veal Broth. 

Take two pounds of perfectly lean veal ; cut off 
any morsel of fat remaining. Take \ lb. of pearl 
barley, and after having cut the meat up very small 
and thin (not chopped it), boil it and the barley toge- 
ther for two or three hours till it becomes a sort of 
pulpy mass. Rub this through a hair sieve, and 
season with a little salt. 

It is light and nourishing, and very easy of diges- 
tion. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Use an old hen, or if the white parts of }-oung 
chickens have been used for entrees, the legs can be 
reserved for chicken jelly. 

Boil slowly in a small quantity of water, putting 
on in cold water — one pint of water if a whole chicken 
is used. 

An hour after the saucepan or bain-marie has 
been on the fire, take it off, slip out the bones, crush 
or pound and return them to the broth, and let it 
simmer slowly for an hour and a half ; season with 
salt and a little white pepper^ strain through muslin 
after passing through a colander, and if it is to be 
eaten cold pour into a mould or a shallow china dish ; 
send the jelly up on a napkin with a garnish of parsley 
or watercress. This is a very agreeable dish if the 
state of the teeth and gums requires soft food, and the 
preparations of broth and soup are not liked. The 
jelly is strong enough to keep any shape, and might 



454 CUTLETS FOR INVALIDS. 

be cut into croutons if liked. A little grated tongue 
or ham may be sent up with chicken jelly. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Victime. 

Trim one of three cutlets neatly, and allow the two 
others to project a little beyond the trimmed cutlet 
which is to be placed between the other two ; tie them 
together, and grill the triplet, taking care to turn it 
with the cutlet tongs, or, if a hanging gridiron, in 
the usual way, so that all the gravy is concentrated, 
and that the middle cutlet receives it all. Then re- 
move the outside cutlets, which may be used by the 
stronger digestions, while the delicate and juicy cutlet 
is served to the invalid. 

When a very small quantity of mutton, minced 
very fine, is ordered for a patient, this is the best 
way of preparing the meat before mincing. 

Tapioca and Cream. 

Boil the tapioca in milk till it is quite soft all 
through, flavour with sugar and vanille (if approved); 
let it get cold, and then break it up and work in half 
a pint of whipped cream. 

Sago or rice may be used instead of tapioca. 

Chocolate. 

Begin by purchasing chocolate which is not loaded 
with flour or sugar ; it costs more money to buy, but 
is cheaper than those kinds which are only chocolate 
in part. An ounce of chocolate is to be dissolved in a 



CHOCOLATE. 455 

teacup and a half of water, and boiled down to a tea- 
cup ; stir in half a teacupful of milk or cream, warm, 
but do not boil, and serve. 



Chocolate No. 2. 

Take a tablet of chocolate for each cup. Break 
the tablet in two pieces, put it into a cup, and pour on 
it enough boiling water or milk to cover the pieces ; 
leave it alone, off the fire, about five minutes, or long 
enough to become thoroughly soaked. Now pour off 
the superfluous liquid and mash the chocolate into a 
soft pulp ; then turn the whole into the saucepan of 
boiling water or milk on the fire, and five or six minutes' 
boiling will be sufficient. It need not be stirred much 
while on the fire, as the chocolate, being completely- 
dissolved, will not stick to the bottom of the saucepan. 
After the five or six minutes' boiling, it may stand 
eight or ten minutes near the fire, to get mellow. 
Alilk or water is used according to taste. 

A silver, porcelain, or earthenware saucepan will 
do, or even a copper one well tinned ; but tin and 
iron saucepans, or any utensils employed for the ordi- 
nary uses of the kitchen, ought not to be used, as 
they may give the chocolate a bad flavour. The 
stirring may be done with a wooden spoon. Chocolate 
is not a mere infusion, like tea, but rather a fine 
and delicate sort of vegetable broth or soup, at 
once a cheering drink and nourishing food. 



456 CHOCOLATE. 

Chocolate No. 3. 

French Mode. 

2 cups boiling water ; 

I cup scraped chocolate ; 

Use a silver saucepan, stir in the chocolate as the 
water boils, stir till quite smooth. 

Add two cups of milk, reduce by simmering, and 
then serve. 



German Mode. 



\ lb. chocolate 



I quart milk ; 

3 yolks of eggs. 

Grate the chocolate, stir in boiling milk and boil 
for ten minutes ; stir in the eggs, pour into little china 
cups, and let them set. 

Panada. 

Steep the crumb of some stale bread in hot water 
till it has soaked up all the water, then simmer in a 
little more water and pass through a tamis. 

Make a thin custard with new milk and }^olk of 
^^^, and mix with the panada, which may be eaten 
hot or cold. 

If eggs are not to be used, stir in a little butter 
after the panada is made and whilst it is hot, but do 
not let the butter go on the fire. 

Rusks may be used instead of bread crumbs, or 
toasted bread. 



BARLEY WATER. 457 



Toast or Bread Jelly. 

Dissolve toast or bread crumbs in boiling water, 
and pass through a tamis. 

If liked, add a tablespoonful of brandy and the 
yolk of an ^gg beaten up in hot water. 

Dry Toast. 

Bread used for making toast should be two days 
old. The thickness should never be such as to leave 
a raw bread interval between the toasted sides. 

Sometimes an invalid desires toast as thin as a 
wafer. For ordinary breakfast use, toast should be 
rather less than half an inch thick when toasted ; it 
should not be made before wanted ; each piece must 
be placed in the rack as soon as it is done, and the 
colour must be uniform over the whole piece, a golden 
brown. 

Barley Water. 

I lb. pearl barley ; 

\ lb. sugar ; 

4 lemons. 

Wash the barley thoroughly ; to do so, use at 
least four waters. 

Peel the lemons as thin as possible ; put the peel, 
the sugar, and the barley in four quarts of cold water, 
let the saucepan come to the boil, and let it con- 
tinue at the boil for ten minutes. Take care the heat 
does not go beyond boiling-point, or the barley water 
Vv'ill become thick. Squeeze the juice of the four 



458 A RESTORATIVE. 

lemons into a large basin, taking care not to drop in 
any pips. Strain the barley water through a hair 
sieve into the basin, which must have a lip ; let it get 
cold ; pour off into a jug, taking care not to disturb 
the deposit, which is not to be used. 

A Restorative. 

Two eggs with the shells broken up small, the 
juice of one lemon put over the top to cover the shell. 
Let it stand till the egg-shells are dissolved, beat up, 
add sugar to taste, and one tablespoonful of brandy. 

Take two tablespoonsful at a time. 

Hen's Milk. 

Beat up two yolks of fresh eggs with one ounce of 
powdered sugar, and enough orange-flower water to 
turn the yolks white ; then stir in a cup of boiling 
water, and serve immediately. 

Hen's Milk No. 2. 

The yolks of 3 eggs ; 
5 ozs. boiling water ; 
If allowed, 3 ounces brandy. 

White Wine Whey 

A large wine-glass of sherry is to be stirred into 
half a pint of milk, heated to the point at which it is 
done for cheese — below boiling-point ; as soon as the 
milk is turned strain off the curd. 



SUBSTITUTE FOR KOUMISS. 459 

Digested Milk. 

A pint of milk or of well-boiled gruel is to be 
added while boiling to an equal quantity of cold milk. 
This gives the temperature for artificial digestion. 

Add first thirty grains of carbonate of soda. 

Then i^ teaspoonsful of Liq. Pancreaticus. — 
{Benson.) 

The vv'hole to stand for three hours maintained at 
the same temperature ; finally boil well. 

Drink a large wine-glass at a time. 

This preparation will not keep longer than twenty- 
four to thirty hours, but when koumiss is not ob- 
tainable digested milk is a substitute. 

Syrup of Gum. 

Take 4 ozs. of pure white gum, wash it carefully, 
let it stand in a pint of water till it is dissolved, strain 
through linen, wringing so as to waste none of the 
gum. Dissolve i lb. of sugar in water, flavour with 
orange-flower water, mix with the gum water, and 
bottle for use. 

Lemonade. 

A quart of lemonade requires 6 lemons if they 
are ripe and juicy, or 8 if not juicy. 

Begin by rubbing the outside of two lemons with 
knobs of white sugar to imbibe the zest, squeeze the 
juice out of all the lemons, after carefully picking out 
the pips, and strain through a silk sieve, mix the 
sugar, the lemon juice, and rather less than a quart 
of boiling water. Add sugar syrup to taste. A little 
syrup of gum is an agreeable addition. 



46o ENUS. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 

MEATUS. 

These menus are taken from actual dinners, at 
which either the company or the cookery — generally 
both — were excellent. The order of the dishes differs 
according to whether the house was English or foreign. 

It should be explained that there are many dishes 
among these menus for which no recipes are given ; 
in some cases because the dishes are too complicated 
to be attempted in any house where there is not a 
French chef, whilst in other dishes the names are 
freaks of fancy on the part of the hosts. 

An entree dish contains rations for six or eight 
persons, therefore double or quadruple entrees, accord- 
ing to the number of the guests, must be ordered. 

Plainly dressed vegetables of three or four kinds 
are handed round in English houses with the principal 
joint : these are not given in the menus. Salad is 
handed round with ham or with the ' roast ; ' cheese 
and oatcake or biscuits after the ' entremets ; ' as the 
preliminary to dessert a cream and a water ice are 
provided when the dinner is on the scale of most of 
these menus. 

At very elaborate dinners punch a la Romaine is 



MENUS. 461 

handed round between the serving the releves and 
the roast ; it is intended to stimulate the flagging 
appetite. 

The menus are arranged according to the months 
of the year, and the general accordance of fruits, vege- 
tables, game, &c., with the seasons. French cooks 
ignore the seasons, and compose dinners only to be 
obtained by using tinned (or canned) provisions. A 
more correct taste would select the fruits of the earth 
in due season, and only strive to obtain first-rate 
quality, not rarity purchased above its value, or meats 
deteriorated by the process of preserving. 

As many oi the menus are written in French, and 
as dishes, like dresses, are considered to have more 
distinction when made in Paris, it may be not without 
use to explain some of these names which are given 
to their dishes by French cooks. 

Some of these names are taken from those towns 
or provinces of France which produce the ingredients 
of the dish, or give them the greatest prominence. 

Crecy grows the best carrots. Brittany has a 
monopoly of turnips. The southern cities of France 
are famed for truffles, and for dishes seasoned with 
truffles. Garlic has a flavour popular in Provence as 
well as in Spain, and may therefore be suspected in 
dishes ' a la Proven^ale.' 

More than one sauce bears the name of a Marshal 
of France — Uxelles, Villeroi, Soubise — under Louis 
XIV. The second wife of that monarch gives her 
name to a cutlet, ' a la Maintenon ; ' and the favourite 
of Louis XV., Madame de Pompadour, was served 
with ' bouchees,' now called after her. 



462 MENUS. 

Sometimes, as In ' sauce Robert,' it is the real con- 
triver of a flavour — the cook Robert, praised by Rabe- 
lais, who gives the name ; sometimes a gastronome, like 
Bechamel, desires that posterity shall remember him. 

St. Hubert presides over game as he does over 
field sports. Ste. Menehould has the knack of sug- 
gesting a sauce, which Louis XVI. to his cost must 
stop at Varennes to taste. 

More modern names, too, are found in menus — 
Talleyrand and Chateaubriand ; names from Russia — 
Nesselrode,Demidoff, Pahlen ; and there is the excellent 
dish called after Napoleon's battle 'a la Marengo.' 

M. de Cussy, who when young had been patronised 
by Marie Antoinette, and who in later years was about 
the court of Marie Louise, failed to obtain a small 
place under Louis XVIII. till the discriminating 
monarch was told that the mixture of strawberries, 
cream, and champagne which possesses such a refined 
flavour was the creation of the aged gastronome. 

Puree of carrots is called a la Crecy 

Puree of turnips „ a la Bretonne 

Puree of green peas „ a la d'Artois 

Puree of red haricots „ a la Conde 

Puree of white haricots „ a la Dustan 

Puree of lentils „ a la Chantilly 

Puree of onions „ a la Soubise 

Trout, carp, salmon, and pike, a la Chambord, 
are highly artificial dishes, with truffles and mush- 
rooms disguising the taste of the fish. 



MENUS. 463 

Veal cutlets studded with truffles and tongue are 
called ' a la Dreux.' 




Dishes garnished with macaroni are 'a la mila- 
naise.' Parmesan cheese gives the epithet 'au Par- 
mesan.' 

' Potage Parmentier ' is made with potatoes, which 
were introduced into France by M. Parmentier. 

' Potage Xavier ' is a clear pale soup with threads of 
vegetables floating in it. 

' Potage a la d'Esclignac ' must have a floating 
garnish of turnips. 

' Patties a la Montglas ' contain a mixture of foie 
gras and truffles. 

Garnish ' aux trois filets ' means fillets of truffle, 
tongue, and chicken in equal quantities and of the 
same size. 

' Aux trois racines ' means carrots, turnips, and 
celery. 

' Chipolata,' little home-made sausages used as an 
addition to an entree. 

'Chateaubriand' may be a sauce, a beefsteak, or a 
sweet dish. 

Fricassee of chicken 'a la chevaliere' is a very 
elaborate dish in flavour and arrancrement. 



464 MENUS. 

The epithet ' a la marechale ' is given to fillets of 
pork, of roe deer, of chicken, of sweetbread, or whiting 
*boudins.' Breadcrumbs and eggs, and broiling in 
each case are the distinctive points. 

Entrees ' a la Cardinal ' imply a garnish of either 
tongue or lobster to give a red colour. 

St. Florentin is patron of a rolled loin of beef, 
roasted in a paper coat, glazed before coming to 
table, and accompanied by a ' sauce Robert,' i.e. a 
French version of sirloin and radish sauce. 

The expression ' a la Joinville ' implies a garnish of 
truffles and crayfish. 

' A la Chasseur ' is said of the presence of game, 
or of a game flavour. 

' A la Venitienne ' describes the refined form of 
parsley and butter sauce with a squeeze of lemon. 

* A la Nivernaise ' alludes to a garnish of carrots 
cut to the shape of olives. 

' A la Financiere ' will have a large admixture of 
cockscombs. 

When Bordeaux wine is put into the sauce, it is 
called ' a la Bordelaise.' 

Beignets of peaches are called a la Royale 
„ strawberries „ a la Dauphine 

„ currants „ a la Dauphine 

„ apricots „ a la Chartres 

„ apples „ pommes d'api a la 

d'Orleans 

Rice a la Creole, i.e. fried after being boiled. 
Gateau a la Genoise contains almonds. 
Sicilienne a sweet dish iced. 



MENUS. 465 

Napolitaine, a sweet dish, also a fillet of beef dish. 

Iced puddings are called a la Nesselrode. 

Whilst the French cook shows his skill in deal- 
ing with the productions of France, he studies the 
characteristic dishes of other lands ; thus a salmon 
cutlet ' a I'Americaine,' a ' timbale a la Milanaise,' a 
* casserole a la Polonaise,' are better dressed in Paris 
than in the countries to which they belong. But we 
are not writing a book on the history of dishes, merely 
a modest manual for English housewives. 

In writing out or printing a menu for an elaborate 
dinner, or for a distinguished circle of guests, it is the 
practice sometimes to introduce old dishes under new 
names, so as to pique curiosity or to point a compli- 
ment. These names may surprise, they must not mis- 
lead the guests, and they must be rather of the nature 
of superfluous epithets than allowed to take the place 
of the matter-of-fact statement of the dish. On a 
birthday the pudding would be ' a la Geraldine ' or ' a 
la Edouard.' For a soldier the curry might be 'a la 
Candahar.' 

* Creme de volaille a la Cavendish,' ' salmis a la Cecil, 
might be suitable at a political gathering, but it is on 
the whole better taste not to be personal, and to write 
in a menu the description of a dish which is best 
known. To the objection that menus for English 
dinners should not be written in a foreign language 
we can only reply that the English words at our com- 
mand do not admit of the ' bill of fare ' being v/ritten 
in the vernacular. 



H H 



466 



MENUS. 



January. 

Potage Aux trois racines 

Poisson Maquereaux k la maitre d'hotel 

2^ . , (Croustades a la princesse 

(Filets de faisans au fumet 
r, 1 , ( Poulets aux huitres 

(Aloyau a la broche 

Rot Canards sauvages 

Legume Celeri au jus 

j' Mayonnaise de filets de soles 
Enti-emets ... \ Gelee d'abricots 

''Pouding Nesselrode 



„ , fTortue claire 

[ Puree a la royale 
„ . j Turbot, sauce homard 

jSaumon, sauce Italienne 

/ Cotelettes d'agneau aux concombres 
Entrees •! Alouettes a la Perigord 

i Supreme k la bonne-femme 

r> 1 r { Cochon de lait 

Re/eves -i r, „ -. 

i Selle de mouton 

r,. I Faisans au jus 

(B^casses 

Buisson d'ecrevisse et homard 
J- ,^ j Petits pois k la Frangaise 

^ (Celeri au jus 

/-Napolitaine k la creme 
Entremets ... J Tartelettes de rhubarbe 

i Gelee aux mandarins 

/ Macaroni k la Napolitaine 
Releves J Ramequins au fromage 

ITartines de caviar 



MENUS. 467 



January. 

Potao-es J Consomme k la Sevigne 

^ ( Bisque d'ecrevisses 

p . ( Saumon, sauce Chalons 

[Filets de soles a la Regence 

CMauviettes a la Princesse 
Entrees \ Filets de volaille a la Talleyrand 

i Cotelettes d'agneau aux pointes d'asperges 

r, J , ( Filet de boeuf a la Moldave 

Releves -,' , , , „, 

i Poulardes a lAnglaise 

Rot Becasses 

r , ( Fonds d'artichauts farcis 

I^e (^uiHes - 

^ 1 Petits pois k la Frangaise 

I Croustades de poires k la Bordelaise 

Eiitre7n£ts ... \ Timbale a la Montmorency 

V Petits pains au Parmesan 



Potao-es i ^^^^^^ d'ecrevisses a la Parisienne 

^ I Consomme de volaille aux quenelles 

Poisson Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

Filet de boeuf a la Portugaise 
i Petites timbales a la Milanaise 

Entrees - Supremes de filets de poulets aux trufifes 

\ Salade de homard, bord d'aspic 
Punch k la romaine 

Rot Grouse 

/ Petits pois a FAllemande 
Entremets ... J Gateaux Napolitains gamis de fruits 
iParfait au chocolat 



H H 2 



468 



MENUS. 



January. 

„ ^ (Au consomme Vtns. 

2 Pota^es ... -' V ,. 

( Creme d'orge 

Madere — Xeres 

T> 7 ^ ; ( Filets de soles a la Joinville 

jPoulardes a la Toulouse 

Champagne 

2 Entrees ( Vol-au-vent de quenelles ^ la Bechamel 

doubles ( Cotelettes d'agneau a la Provengale 

Sillery rouge 

^ '^ i Ouartier de chevreuil roti, sauce poivrade 

(tentrces ) ^ 

Punch a la Romaine 

„^, ( Canetons 

2 Rots J , 

i Perdreaux 

Chateau Margaux 

/Haricots verts a la maitre d'hotel 

^ , Chicoree a I'Allemande 

4 Entremets i ^ , , , • j • . i. 

^ Gelee de noyau garnie de pistaches 

vSavarin, sauce k I'abricot 

( Fromage ; Compotes, petits fours, &c. Porto. 

Dessert -| Glace au chocolat. Xer^s, Madere, 

I Ch. Margaux, Malaga 

Potage Consomme printanier k la Royale 

Hors dcciivre Les croustades k la Reine 

/ Le turbot, sauce homard 
Revelcs -^ Les quartiers de chevreuil, sauces poivrade et 

i groseille 

/ Les cotelettes d'agneau, puree de marrons 
E?itrees ^ Les poulardes k la Godard 

V Les aspics de foie gras en belle vue 
Sorbets au kirsch 
Rot Les faisans truffes, garnis de bdcassines 

( Les cardons k la moelle 
Entremets .. J ^^^ haricots verts k I'Anglaise 

1 Les babas glacis k I'anisette 

I Les madeleines glacees k I'ananas 



MENUS. 469 

February. 



Potages [^f'^^'^'l ^ . r. ■ 

[ Puree aorge a la Reine 

Poissons .. J ^^^^^^ ^^ merlan a la ravigote 
[Saumon, sauce persil 
I Rissolettes aux huitres 

E7itrees - Boudins de volaille aux truffes 

i Cotelettes d'agneau en belle vue 
/ Chapons k la financiere 

Releves \] ambon d' York 

i Selle de mouton 
Punch a la Romaine 

Rots (Canetons 

1 Pluviers 
r ' ( Pommes de terre, maitre d'hotel 

(Epmards aux croutons 
Pain d'oranges 
Chartreuse a la Pomone 
Enti'emets ... \ Ponding glace a I'Alexandrie 
Savarin au rhum 
^Biscuits Gruyere 



D . ( Bisque de ramiers k la chasseur 

Potages J _ ^ . , , M, V 1 ^ ,1 . 

•^ ( Consomme de volaille a la Colbert 

„ . ( Saumon de Glo'ster, garni de bouchees 

Poissons J ., , , , ' * ,. 

(Filets de merlans a Fltalienne 

• Supreme de pintades aux champignons 

Entrees - Cotelettes d'agneau aux pommes de terre satitees 

i Chaudfroid de mauviettes a Taspic 

I Dindonneaux k la Lyonnaise 

Releves \ Langues de boeuf 

V Gigot de venaison a la Frangaise 

Punch k la Romaine 

r.A. (Faisans 

(Becasses 

Legume Haricots flageolets, maitre d'hotel 

Gateau Compiegne 

Pains d'ananas a la Reine 

(.Talmouses au parmesan 



Entremets 



470 MENUS. 



February. 

PotaFes ( Printanier a la Royale 

\ Puree de gibier a ia Princesse 

/•Les tranches de saumon, sauces homard et Hol- 
Poisso7is \ landaise 

V Les filets de merlans k la Dieppoise 
. ! Les poulets decoupes k la jardiniere 
Eiitrees \ Les cotelettes d'agneau panees aux pointes d'asperge 

i Les timbales de foie gras en aspic 

/ Les faisans a la Perigord 

ILe jambon au Madere 
La selle de mouton a la duchesse 
Hanche de venaison 

^^^ f Les sarcelles k la Bigarade 

Rots J, T u -. 

( Les huitres au gratm 

( Les petits pois k la Frangaise 

^ ( Les epinards a I'Espagnole 

Les compiegnes aux cerises 
Les gelees mosaiques k la moderne 
Entremets ... ^^^ peches au riz a I'imperiale 
Les canapes aux anchois 



Potage A la bonne femme 

PoissoJt Cabillaud grille, sauce homard 

Entree Les filets de bceuf aux epinards 

P J ' j Les poulets k la macedoine 

(La selle de mouton 'laver' 

Rot Les becassines 

Legume Les asperges en branches 

/ L'aspic de foie gras 
Entremet ... J La tarte aux pommes 

I La Charlotte russe 



MENUS. 47: 



February. 



Potages 1 Bisque de gibier a la Regence 

" ' " I Consomme a la creme de volaille 
Poissons I'Watersouche' de truites 

[Filets de sole a la Venitienne 
Entrees i ^^^^^^ de becassines aux croiites 

jCotelettes a la d'Orleans 
Releves .. [ Dindon a I'estragon, au demi-glace 

I Quartier d'agneau 
Rdts (Mauviettes 

I Canards sauvages 
Legume Truffes de Perigord a la serviette 

, Pouding au marrons 
Entremets ... J Plombiere d'abricots au curagao 

I Croutons a I'Allemande 



Potao-es i Consomme aux pointes d'asperge 

^ (Puree de lievre 

^oisson Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

Entrees ( Compote de pigeons 

\ Souffles a la Reine 
Releves \ ^^S^^ ^^ chevreuil, sauce poivrade 

1 Mayonnaise de homard 

Rots (Poulardes 

[ Cailles 

Legume H aricots verts 

Entremets ... | B aba aux fruits 

(Riz a I'lmperatnce 



472 



MENUS. 



March. 

Poiages I^'^q^^ _ 

( Consomme a la Lamartine 

Poissons ... J ^^^^^s ^^ soles en souche 
(Saumon de Christchurch 

E7itrees i Timbales a la Poictiers 

(Cotelettes de mouton grillees 
I Fricandeau k la Flamande 

Releves j Quartier d'agneau 

ijambon k I'aspic 

Rot Poulardes de Surrey 

Legume Petits pois au nature! 

1 Mayonnaise Napolitaine 
Gelee k la bombe de Tanger 
Vol-au-vent a la Florentine 
Plombi^re k la Dubarry 
Cremes au parmesan 



Potages (ConsommealaXavier 

[Puree de volaille a la Reine 
Poissons 1 Truites, sauces verte et Genoise 

[Filets de sole a la diplomate 
Entrees j^^^ d'agneau k I'AIlemande 

[Filets de pigeons k la Strabane 

Releve Selle de mouton 

Entr'acte ... Les aspics k I'arlequin 

Rot Les cailles bardees 

Legume Les truffes k la serviette 

C Les babas a la sauce problematique 
Entremets ... \ Les chartreuses k la Cintra 

^ Les cremes de fromage 



MENUS. 473 



Potages ^ 

\ Tortue fausse 



March. 

f Consomme a la chatelaine 
Tortue fausse 
Turbots, sauce Hollandaise 



Poissons „ , , . 

( Eperlans, sauce anchois 

I Petites bouchees a la Dieppoise 

Eftirees \ Salmis de pluviers a I'essence, aux truffes 

i Filets de chevreuil a la Parisienne 

/ Chapons k la macedoine 

„ , , Langues de boeuf 

Releves \ r\ ^- jj 

Quartiers d agneau 

ISelles de mouton 
y^^^j ( Levrauts piques 

JMauviettes bardees 
T , (Mayonnaise de homards en belle vue 

(Fonds dartichauts farcis 

/Abricots k la Conde 
Entremets ... j Gateau ambroisie au curaga 

iPetits souffles au moka 



r, J. \ Consomme aux quenelles 

Potages -■ . ^ 

^ ( Bagration 

Hors (Toeiivre Les petites bouchees aux huitres 

Poisson Le saumon k la Chambord 

TT . > (La mayonnaise de homard 

I Les supremes de volaille a I'ecarlate 

Releve Le rosbif garni de pommes de terre nouveues 

j^-f^ J Les canards sauvages 

(La terrine de li^vre k la gelee 

Le^rtanes i ^^^ pointes d'asperges aux petits pois 

^ I Les cardons k la m.oelle 

Entrei7tets I ^^^ biscuits de Savoie k la vanille 

( La glace au chocolat 



474 



MENUS. 



March. 

„ ( Printanier k la cluchesse 

^ ( Bisque de volaille k I'Allemande 

p . j Les truites de Loch Leven k I'arlequin 

[Les chitelons de merlan a la Rouennaise 
T^ _, , ( Les crepinettes \ la Demidoff 

Jl,7ltV6€S -' 

(Les filets de cailles de Virginie k la Peruvienne 
„ , , ( Les chapons a la Toulouse 

[ Le quartier d agneau 

Rot Les pigeons de Bordeaux 

Legume Les truffes k la serviette 

/ Les pains de homard 
Les croques en bouches k la Bresilienne 
Entremets ... j L^g ^^^^^^ gi^ces k la sybille 

I Les favorites au gruyere 



Potages ... 
Foissons . . . 
Ejttrees ... 
Releves . . . 



Rots 

Legume ... 
Entremets 



I Consomme de volaille aux profiterolles 

(Bisque de homard k la Russe 

J Filets de saumon k la Chalons 

(Turbot au vin de Chablis 

j Filets de volaille a la Rachel 

( Salmis de gibier, financiere 

( Selles de mouton 

jPoulardes Napolitaines 

/ Sarcelles 

j Mauviettes 

i ' Marrow bones ' 

Asperges d'Argenteuil 

Brioches Allemandes 

Cr^me diplomate glacee 

Creme frite au parmesan 



MENUS. 



475 



April. 

o . ( Tortue claire 

Potas;es J . , . 

( Creme de nz 

„ . f Filets de saumon a la cardinal 

lOlSSOllS J 

(Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 
p f ' j Boudins de volaille a la Bohemienne 

(Cotelettes d'agneau aux petits pois 
„ , _ , ( Filets de bceuf a la Provencale 

( Poulardes a la Regence 
„^ ( Cailles bardees 

( Chaudfroid de becassines 

r , ( Asperges en branches 

Lemmes \ ^^ . 

\ Haricots verts 

■c. . . ( Creme de vanille a la Mauresque 

(Gateau garni d une glace aux fraises 



Potao-es f Consomme kl'Arctique 

^ (Bonne-femme 

„ . I Filets de truite a la ' wastre fish ' 

I Soles au vin blanc 
■p f ' ( Ris de veau \ la marechale 

(Attelets a la Bordelaise 
r> 7 f { Ouartier d'agneau 

(Poulets a la Nesle 

Rot Pigeons de Bordeaux 

Legume Salade k la Marseillaise 

j^ . . \ Croque en bouche a la Bayadere 

( Mousse glacee d'ananas 
Favorites 



476 



MENUS. 



April. 

Poiage Bonne-femme 

Poisson Filets de maquereaux a la maitre d'hotel 

^ ^ , f Becaficos 

Entrees i ^ a , ^ x i o i. • 

[Cotelettes de mouton k la Soubise 

Rot Pigeons 

Legume Champignons grilles 

Eiitremet ... Pain d'oranges k la Chantilly 



Potages . 
Poissons . 

Entrees . 
Relev/s . 
Rots 

Legumes 



Entr-emets 



( Tortue a I'Anglaise 

\ Consomme a la reforme 

, Saumon, sauce homard 

J Filets de rougets a la Dieppoise 

(Whitebait 

/■B-ouchees de levrauts k I'imperiale 

j Supreme de volaille aux pointes d'asperge 

i Cailles truffees a la Perigord 

I Filet de boeuf k la printaniere 

( Quartier d'agneau 

(Canetons 
Jambon au vin 
Poulets 
j Asperges en branches 
JFoies gras a I'aspic 
Gelee aux fraises 

Tartelettes k la creme aux peches 
Biscuits glaces k la vanille 
Gateaux au fromage 



MENUS. A77 



April. 

Potage Consomme de volaille a la Princesse 

Hors d^ oeirure P elites bouchees de crevettes 

p . j Turbot garni, sauce homard 

(Filet de boeuf Aladere a la Godard 

I^Cotelettes de poulets nouveaux aux concombres 

Entrees \ Petits boudins de lapereaux a la Richelieu 

^ Pates de foie gras de Strasbourg k la gelee 
Punch a la Romaine 

AW Pintades roties 

(Asperges, sauce Hollandaise 
Gateaux de Compiegne aux peches 
Riz a rimperatrice garni d'une creme de fraises 



n ^ (A la d'Esclignac 

^ ( Creme de riz a la Victoria 



Poissons 



Saumon, sauces Tartar et persil 
Filets de sole k la cardinal 
C Quartier d'agneau 



Releves nambon a I'Espagnole 

vHanche de venaison 

„.. ( Poulardes au cresson 

Rots \ ^ 

\ Levrauts 

/ Haricots verts 
Legumes -! Champignons au gratin 

' CEufs de pluviers k I'aspic 

I' Gelee de fruits 
Entremets ... -j Savarin d'orange 

vD'Artois au parmesan 



478 



MENUS. 



May. 

j Consomme de volaille k la Colbert 
^ I Puree d'asperge aux croutons 

^Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 
Poissons \ Cotelettes de saumon, sauce Genevoise 

i Whitebait 

, Croustades k la Montglas 
Ejit7'ees i Supreme de volaille aux truffes 

i Cotelettes d'agneau en belle vue 

/-Poulardes \ la Perigueux 
Releves j Jambon au vin de Madere 

i Selle de mouton 
„ . J Cailles aux feuilles de vigne 

I Mayonnaise de homard 
J , ^ [Asperges, sauce Hollandaise 

^ " [Haricots verts, maitre d'hotel 

/ Gelees au marasquin 
Entre?nets ... \ Gateaux k la Chantilly 

(Brioches aux abricots 
„ , , ( Pailles au parmesan 

( Canapes aux anchois 

p { Consomme Geoffroi aux racines 

^ ^^^^ (Puree k la Reine 

„ . ( Souche aux limandes 

[Filets de truites k la marini^re 

r^ . , ( Supremes de volaille k I'Andalouse 

E 7itvees \ 

(Chaudfroid k la reine de Chypre 

/Selle de mouton k la Portugaise 
Releves \ Poulardes poelees k la Godard 

ijambon d'York au Madere 
„^ j Cailles bardees aux feuilles de vigne 

[CEufs de vanneau k la Moscovite 
Legume Asperges d'Argenteuil 

I Giteau aux mille fruits 
Entremets ... ] Melons glacds aux pistaches 
Cassolettes k I'lndienne 



MENUS. 



479 



May. 

Potage Creme de riz 

Hors ifceiivre Bouch6es k la Montglas 

Poisson Truite saumonee a la Nantua 

„ 7 / ( Filet de bceuf aux tomates farcies, sauce Madere 

1 Filets de canetons a la Rouennaise 

Entrees Chaudfroid de mauviettes 

Punch au kirsch 
p J ^ ' ( Dindonneaux nouveaux au cresson 

(Jambon de Bayonne 

Le'gtime Asperges en branches 

Eiitt-emets ... Biscuits daces 



p f ^ j Consomme k la Carlton 

^ t Puree de riz k la creme 

„ . ( Saumon k la Tartare 

Poissons 4 ,^_- . , . 

(Whitebait 

p f ' J Timbales de macaroni, sauce supreme 

(Cotelettes d'agneau en chaudfroid 

P 7 ^ ' ( Poulets k la jardiniere 

JHanche de mouton 
( CEufs de vanneau a I'aspic 

^ J Ponding k la diplomate 

Gateaux glaces 
i Souffle au parmesan 



48o MENUS, 



May. 

Potage Consomme a la printaniere 

Poisso7i Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

j^ . , [Bouchees k la Hongroise 

( Supreme de volaille 

Releve Ouartier d'agneau 

Rot Pigeons de Bordeaux 

r . { Asperges d'Argenteuil 

[ CEuis de vanneau au cresson 
Caramel en surprise 
Entremets ... - Gateau a la mille-feuilles 
Omelette au parmesan 



Potage A la Princesse 

Poisson Whitebait 

Releve Rosbif garni 

Entrees j Timbales de foie gras 

( Canetons aux olives 
Rot Poulets rotis 

I'Asperges en branches 
j^ . . Cardons k la moelle 

Biscuits glaces a la Chantilly 

i Parfaits de framboise 



MENUS. 



481 



June. 

Pota^es (Toruie Claire 

(Puree de pois aux pointes d'asperge 
Poissojts j Filets de sole a I'ltalienne 

i Saumon en mayonnaise 

/Pains de volaille aux truffes 
E??t7'ees - Cotelettes d'agneau a la duchesse 

i Cailles a I'aspic 

/Chapons braises a la jardiniere 
Releves -j Jambon d' York 

V Hanche de mouton 
D-jy ' Canetons 

^ Levraut 

r . ( Petits pois k la Parisienne 

Le spumes - „, ^ 

y Champignons au gratm 

I Gelee au vin de Champagne 
Entremets ... j Giteau a la Princesse 
Souffle au marasquin 
Croutes aux olives 



Fctage H A la Royale 

Hors cT'ceinn-e Les petits pates aux truffes 

r, T ' (La truite, sauce aux crevettes 

Releves -; \ 

( Le rosbif a lAnglaise 

C Les cotelettes d'agneau garnies d'une macedoine 
Entrees - Les filets de pigeons aux petits pois 

' Les terrines de foie gras a la gelee 
Punch a la Romaine 
Rot Les poulets au cresson 

( Les fonds d'artichauts au jus 
Legumes -^^^^ haricots verts a I'Anglaise 

T-. . . ( Le baba, sauce au Xeres 

Entremets ... ^ , , ' , . , r • 

y La gelee au kirsch aux fraises 



II 



482 



MENUS. 



June. 

[ Consomme a la Princesse 

^ "(Puree ^ la Jean-Jacques Rousseau 

„ . ( Saumon de Glo'ster, sauce Hollandaise 

Foissons \^ , ^ r^ 1 1 V 1 -n 1 

( Supreme de filets de soles a la Royale 

, Croquettes de ris de veau a la Montglas 

Entrees \ Filets de volaille a la Nesle 

( Cotelettes d'agneau a la Montmorency 

„ , , I Poulets braises a la jardiniere 

Releves c n j 

( Selle de mouton 

„^, I Canetons 

Rots ; ^ ... 

( Cailles 

^ . ( Petits pois a la Francaise 

Lds;umes J ^ ^ . , , ^. ^ . 

* ( Mayonnaise a la Bismarck 

/ Gelee aux fruits 

_ , ^ Chartreuse de fraises 

Entreynets ...-■. , , , , , ^ , . 

J Petites bouchees a la Genoise aux cerises 

V Ponding aux avelines glacees 



( Consomme a la Juvenal 

* \ Puree de volaille a la Windsor 

„ . (Filets de maquereaux a I'ltalienne 

Poissons \r^ X. ^ '^4. vwi 1 

(Turbot, sauce maitre d hotel 

/Petites bouchees au Salpicon 
Entries ] Grenadins de veau a la macedoine 

i Quenelles de homard 

I Poulardes a la jardiniere 
Relevds - Jambon au naturel 

i Selle de mouton 

Rots Canetons 

Legume Petits pois k la Frangaise 

/ Chartreuse de peches 

_ ^ , Creme au chocolat 

Entremets ... -' ^^ „ . ^ . 

Gateau Congres aux fraises 

I Plombi^re glacee 



MENUS. 



483 



Potage 



toissons ... 
Entrees . . 
Re I eve's . . 

Entremets 



June. 

Consomme a la duchesse 
( Saumon, sauce a I'eau au persil 
( Whitebait 

( Poulets a la Viennoise, sauce tartare 
{ Filets de boeuf, Bearnaise 
( Hanche de mouton 
ijambon aux epinards 

CEufs farcis a la St-Honore 
[ Creme aux fraises 
: Baba au rhum 



Failles au parrresan 



75^ ,^^^ ( Consomme a la d' Orleans 

rotates J . 

( Bisque d'ecrevisse 

Poissons - Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

(Filets de sole a la d'Artois 
Entrees ^ Cotelettes soufflees, pure'e de champignons 

( Nectarine de foie gras en belle vue 
Releves j Hanche de venaison 

\ Gigot d'agneau 
Salade Demidoft 

Granit au champagne 
r>^. ( Pigeons au cresson 

( Medallions de homard 

Uo-umes jAsperges en branches 

^ (Petits pois a I'Anglaise 

77 V ^ f Macedoine de fruits 

Entremets ... J • v 1 t- 

Savarm a la Francaise 



I I 2 



484 



MENUS. 



Potages 
Poissons 

Ejiirees 
Releve 



IZots. 



Legumes 



Enti'eviets 



July. 

( Printanier a la renaissance 
( Puree de concombres au vert-pre 
f Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 
i^Truite saumonee a la Bordelaise 

Petits pates de homard a I'ancienne 
\ Ris de veau ^ la Romaine 
1 Cotelettes de cailles a la financiere 
i Chaudfroid de volaille en beile vue 
/ Hanches de mouton 
1 Chapons k I'estragon 
1 Langues de boeuf 
Ijambon 

Punch au champagne 
I Canetons au cresson 
-I Petits poulets, Reine 
I Salade de filets de sole a la Venitienne 

! Fonds d'artichauts aux fines herbes 

I Petits pois a I'Anglaise 

I Fondants aux reine-Claude 

-•: Macedoine de fruits des quatre saisons 

I Cremes frites au parmesan 



p f ^ j Consomme, brunoise 

'■'' I Puree de pois, St-Germain 

„ . ( Truite. sauce matelote 

(Filets de merlans a la Orly 

^ ^ , f Timbales \ la Talleyrand 

jfe i7ivees , • . -' 

\Mauviettes en belle vue 

Rcleves .... ( Q^artier d'agneau 
\ Salade Demidoff 
Granit au champagne 
j^^ (Canetons 

" I Chaudfroid de volaille 

Legume Petits pois k I'Anglaise 

rr . f j Suedoise d'abricots 

(Timbales de gaufres a la Carlsbad 



MENUS. 



485 



July. 

' A whef Anchov)^ butter 

Soup Midsummer soup 

Fish Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

r^ _, , ( Lamb cutlets with cucumber 

jl. ittvcss - 

i Boudin of fowl en ragout 

j^. j Spanish ham, Russian salad 

I Quails and peas 

j Omelette au cure 
Amber witch pudding 
Entremets ... p^in of damsons 

I Pineapple ice 



„ _, ( D orge liee aux croutons 

Potages 1 ^ ' V 1 T3 1 

( Consomme a la Royale 

Hors cVceuvre Petites bouchees a la Reine 

,, , ^ , I Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

(Selle de mouton garnie a la duchesse 

, Supreme de filets de volaille truffes 

I Cotelettes d'agneau, sauce St. Germain 

'^ ^^^^ 1 Filets de venaison, poivrade 

i Aspic de homard en belle vue 

„^ j Jambon d'York, chaud, aux epinards 

\ Ortolans garnis de croutons 

J , \ Haricots verts 

^^ ( Champignons, Provencale 

(Bavarois a I'ambassadrice 
Glace a I'ananas 
Baba au rhum 



486 



MENUS, 



July. 

„ , I Consomme a la Dauphine 

Potashes J , - , ^ ^ 

\ Puree de pois aux croutons 

r> . f Saumon froid a la Tartare 

Potssons -' ., , , V , ^ 1 

( Filets de soles a la Orly 

T^ . , ( Cotelettes d'asmeau aux haricots verts 

lL 7u?'i'€S - 

(Chaudfroid de filets de volaille 
p J ^ 4 \ Canetons braises aux petits pois 

I Selle de mouton 
Rot Cailles bardees 

[Asperges en branches 
Legumes Tomates au gratin 

j Pain de foie gras a la gelee 

j'Pouding au caramel 

Enb-einets ... J Petits soufHes glaces a la cardinal 

Pailles a la Sefton 



Potage Le consomme peluche ^ la Royale 

Poissoii Les filets de soles a la Simeon 

„ , , ( Le rosbif a I'Anglaise 

Releves -: .* 

\ Les poulardes a la Perigueux 

Rot Les canetons rotis 

Legume Les cucucelles au jus 

/p , , (La glace au chocolat 

Lntremets ,., \ , ^ ^ . • 

\ Les croquettes Genoises 



MENUS. 487 



August. 

Soup A la Royale 

Fish Mackerel, fennel sauce 

Entree Lamb cutlets, puree of turnips 

Releve Braised beef 

Rot Ducks and green peas 

Entremets ... j Raspberry bread 

(Tartines a la Dieppoise 



Soup Chiffonnade of lettuce 

Fish Haddocks 

Entree Cream of lobster 

Releves (Veal pie 

(Beef a la mode 
Legume Eggs in aspic 

Entremets ... [^^i^'"^ ^^'^ ^ . 
(Cheese souffle 



488 



MENUS. 



August. 

rotates J Tortile kl'Anglaise 

^ [ Aux profiterolles 

,, . ( Saumon de Severn, sauce homard 

( Filets de sole a la ravigote 

iPetites croustades de foie gras 
Cailles a la Perigord 
Epigramme d'agneau aux pois 
Poulets a la Tvlontmorency 

„ - , f Selle de mouton 

Relevcs \ ^ , , . , 

i Jambon aux epinards 

„.^ (Ortolans 

Rots -: T- 

( Levraut 

Legume Haricots verts a la cr^me 

/ Gelee au marasquin 
Peches au riz 
Ent7emets ... j gjscuits glaces a la vanille 

• Pailles au parmesan 



Soup Rabbit soup 

Fish Sand eels 

, j Puree a la Portugaise 

^^^^^'^^^ I Venison cutlets a la Napolitaine 

( Roast chickens 

Removes -' ^ , 

( Beef chops 

Roast Grouse 

Vegetable ... Mushrooms 

^ r^. J ( Compote of pears 
Szveet Dishes J m- 

I Frozen sourile 



MENUS. 489 



August. 

Potage Vermicelli 

Pozsson Saumon, sauce Hollandaise 

p f ' \ Ris de veau, sauce tomate 

( Filet de boeuf aux champignons 
Rot Poulets des Princes 

Legumes J Ctoi au jus 

( Haricots verts 

T-- . . I Chambord 

Entremets ... ^ , , , . 

, Croque en boucne aux fruits 



Soup Orleans soup 

Fish Soles a la cardinal 

Entree Croustades of sweetbread 

Roast Roast leg of lamb, salad, French beans 

/ Crab souffle 
Entremets ... - Amber pudding 

i Boiled cheese 



490 



MENUS, 



September. 

Soup Russian soup 

Fish Turbot, Dutch sauce 

p f ' f Chicken k la Viennoise 

I Curried palates 

Remove Saddle of mutton 

Roast Black game 

J. . yj ( Mayonnaise of lobster 

Vef^etables ...-'•' ^ , ^ 

( Peas a la Francaise 

/ Strawberry creams 

Sweet dishes . -' Baba, rum sauce 

i Parmesan straws 



Soi^p Puree of haie 

Fish Fillets of mackerel, fennel sauce 

c^ , , f Prince of Wales' cutlets 

Entrees -^ ^ , • r • j 

( Salmis of partridge 

z, f Roast beef 

Removes ...... J ^ . , . , 

( Ham with spinach 

Roast Grouse 

Vegetable ... French beans, cream sauce 

/ Souffle pudding 
Siueet dishes . j Punch jelly 

^ Anchovy toast 



MENUS, 



491 



September. 

Soup Scot's broth 

Fish Haddocks, ^%z sauce 

Removes (Jugged hare 

( Haunch of mutton 

Roast Partridges 

Vegetable Artichoke bottoms 

/Apple Charlotte 

Sweet dishes . - Chocolate creams 
i Parmesan biscuits 



Soup Parmentier (puree of potato) 

Fish Slices of salmon grilled, Tartar sauce 

£, , , ( Grenadins of rabbit 

Entrees J ^ . 

(Haricot mutton 

„ ( Rump-steak pie 

Removes -' . ^ . ^ „ , 

\ Lorn of mutton rolled 

Roast Grouse 

Vegetable Flageolets 

/ Prune jelly . 
Sweet dishes . - Iced rice pudding 

i Ham toasts 



492 MENUS. 



September. 

Soup Puree of grouse 

Fis/i Fillets of sole a la Orly 

^ ^ , ( Quenelles of rabbit and truffles 

Liitrees i ^.„ ., r s i -r, ^ 

(Fillet of beef a la Bearnaise 

,, ( Neck of mutton, braised with rice 

Removes J ^ , . .' 

( Haunch of venison 

Roast Partridges 

Vegetable Cauliflower au gratin 

I Madeleines 
Siueet dishes . 1 Vanille cream (iced) 

^Anchovy toast 



Potage ...... Puree a la Stamboul (rice and tomato) 

Poisson Saumon, sauce a la tartare et a I'eau 

( Quenelles k la Reine 



Entrees 
Releves 



(Filets de canard aux olives 

J Haggis 

( Haunch of venison 

Rot Black game 

Legume Russian salad 

/ Whipped eggs 
Entremets ...\ Fried plum pudding 

i Ginger souffle 



MENUS. 



493 



October. 

Poiage Consomme aux quenelles 

Poisson Rougets a ritalienne 

, Croquettes de homard 
Entrees .1 Boudins de volaille aux truffes 

[ Filets de perdreaux aux champignons 

r, , , ( Fricandeau a I'oseille 

Re I eves J ,. , 

I Gigot de mouton 

Rot Faisans 

Legume Aspic a la Victoria 

/ Pain de pommes k la creme 

^ , . I Pouding \ la St-Cloud 

Entremets ... \ ^ m ^ ^ , 

Souffle glace au chocolat 

^ Talmouses au parmesan 



Potage Consomme, sagou lie 

Poisson Turbot, sauce homard 

C Pates au Salpicon 
Ent7'ees j Creme de faisans aux trufifes 

^ Cotelettes de mouton a la Soubise 

T, 7 , f Poulets a la Toulouse 

keleves J , , , 

(Aloyau de boeui 

Rot Perdreaux 

T , [ Epinards au jus 

Lcoiimes \ . . , . • 

(Aspic de foie gras 

- Gateau a la Chantilly 

Entre7nets ... \ Souffle k la vanille 

vCroustades a la Milanaise 



494 



MENUS. 



October. 

Pot p-e<i J Consomme k la julienne 

I Aux queues de veau 
Poisson Saumon, sauce tartare 

(Kromeskis aux huitres 
Filets de perdreaux 
Cotelettes a la Soubise 
T^ 1 ' ( Oie a la St-Michel 

( Boeuf a la jardmiere 

Rots J^^°^^^ 

(Becasses 

T , ( Aspic de homard 

Legumes c i •/: 

( Salsifis au jus 

I Gelee d'orange 

Entremets ... \ Pouding a la mousseline 

i Soufflee au parmesan 



„ (Consomme a la Nivernaise 

^ '^^^^ (Abattis d'oie 

Poisson Turbot, sauce homard 

/Petites caisses de gibier 
Entrees ] Cotelettes d'agneau aux epinards 

( Filets de canetons a la bigarade 

I Poulets a I'estragon 
Releves j Langue de boeuf 

i Hanche de venaison 

-r^A^ (Faisans 

Rots \ ^ ., 

( Lievre 

Legume Celeri au jus 

/Poires a I'lmperatrice 

Entremets ... Pouding a la Lady Graham 
i Ramequins au parmesan 



MENUS. 



495 



October. 

„ , ( Consomme aux profiterolles 

( Puree de lievre 

Poisson Cabillaud, sauce aux ceufs 

( Croustades de moelle 
Ent7-<^es -: Blanquette de volaille aux concombres 

\ Cotelettes a la Soubise 

/ Dinde a I'ltalienne 
Releves -' Jambon d'York 

i Filet de boeuf a la macedoine 

D„, I Becassines 

Rots J , 

( Perdreaux 

Legume Fonds d'artichauts k la Lyonnaise 

/ Gelee panachee 
Entremets ... - Gateau \ la Chantilly 

i Croutes a la New York 



„ , ( Consomme a la lulienfte 

Potages J^ , ,, -> 

( Creme d orge 

„ . ( H arenas, sauce moutarde 

Poissoiis \ 

I Filets de sole a la Venitienne 

/Timbales a la Bohemienne 

E?ttre'es - Cotelettes d'agneau aux concombres 

V Filets de boeuf aux olives 
/ Poulets k la Perigueux 

Releves -I Langue de boeuf 

V Hanche de venaison 
„^. j Canards sauvages 

( Perdreaux 

Lecrumes J ^^^^^ ^^ pommes de terre 

^ 1 Mayonnaise de homard 

/ Gelee au vin, garnie de fruits 
Entremets ... \ Gaufres k la Chantilly 

I Beignets au parmesan 



496 



MENUS. 



November. 

Potage Consomme a I'lmperiale 

Poisson Rougets a ritalienne 

( Croustades a la moelle de boeuf 
Entrees -^ Filets de perdreaux aux trufFes 

^ Cotelettes de mouton k la Soubise 
Releves 1 ^indonneau k la Chipolata 

I Boeuf braise aux haricots 

Rot Faisans 

Legiune , Chou marin, sauce HoUandaise 

/ Gelee a la macedoine 
E7it7'emets ... \ Souffle a la vanille 

i Croutons a la Gotha 



Les Huitres 
Pntacrp<: ] Consomme k I'lmperiale 

^ ( Puree k la duchesse 

Poissons (Turbotaugratin 

( Saumon a la cardmal 
p f ' ( Supremes de volaille a la chevaliere 

(Filets de boeuf a la demi-provengale 
ReJeves JTimbale de becassines 

I Selle de mouton 

R6ts jFaisans 

( Sarcelles 
Legume Haricots verts a la Parisienne 

I Charlottes a la Plombi^re 
Entremets ... -j Petites bouchees h. la Napolitaine 

' Caviar a la russe 



MENUS. 497 



November. 

Pofage Consomme, julienne 

Poisson Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

f f ,; \ Creme de volaille a la ravigote 

(Filets de lievre a la marechale 

Releve Selle de mouton 

Sorbets au champagne 

Rot Faisans a la broche 

Legiune Cardons au jus 

1' CEufs a la Lucullus 
Plum pudding a I'Anglaise 
Flans a la Russe 



Potages 
Poissons 



( Tortue claire a I'Anglaise 

I Creme de chicoree 

[ Cabillaud, sauce aux huitres 

( Filets de soles a la cardinal 

/ Bouchees d'artichauts a la Danoise 

Efifrees j Filets de perdreaux a la moderne 

V Chaudfroid de cailles 

n J ' j Poulardes a la Bressane 

i Filet de boeuf au vin de Champagne 

„^, (Becasses 

^'" JDinde 

Legume Haricots verts k la Lyonnaise 

j-Mazarins garnis d'ananas 

Eittreinets ... \ Mousses aux framboises 

i Cremes frites k la Vienncise 



K K 



498 MENUS. 



November. 

Potage Tete de veau, clair 

Poissoii Cabillaud, sauce aux huitres 

p f ' ( Croustades, gamies de moelle de bceuf 

i Pain de lievre aux truffes 

( Dinde aux marrons 
Relevcs \ Langue de boeuf 

i Filet de boeuf braise, sauce Madere 

Rot Black game 

Legume Chicoree a la creme 

^ , , ( Gelee d'oranges 

E7itreinets ... J ,. > , v- .u 

[Pouding a la Gotha 



Potage Consomme aux ravioli 

Poisson Filets de soles a la Bearnaise 

„ , , f Quenelles a la financiere 

[ Filets de lievre piques en chevreuil 

Releve Gigot de mouton k la Bretonne 

Rot Pluviers 

Legume Epinards k la creme 

Entremets . . . Pouding de riz glace 



MENUS, 



499 



December. 

Potage Tortue 

p • . \ Huitres d'Ostende 

jSaumon du Rhin, sauce Joinville 
/Filet de boeuf a la Mont-Fleuri 
^ , Supremes de volaille a la Perigueux 

I Aspic de foie gras en belle vue 

i Galantine de dinde sur socle 

Legume Asperges en branches, sauce Hollandaise 

Punch mousseline 

Rot Faisan de Boheme truffe sur croustade 

Salade de saison 
jp , , f Jambon d'York a la Regence 

I Timbale \ la Victoria 

fPlum pudding au rhum 
Fromage glace 
Gateau Napolitain monte 
Pieces montees en nousrat 



„ ^ ( Consomme aux quenelles 

Potages J ' X 1 T3 • 

( Puree a la Reme 

„ . ( Turbot, sauce homard 

Poissons \„.. ' , , , ^^, , , 

(Filets de soles a la Venitienne 

/ Bouchees a la Pompadour 

Ent7res - Escaloppes de faisans aux trufifes 

VGrenadins de veau aux pois 

iPoulardes a la Toulouse 
Langue de boeuf 
Hachis de venaison 
Boeuf rot 
r>^ , ( Canards sauvages 

1 Becasses 

Legutne Epinards k la creme 

/-Ponding glace k la Nesselrode 
Entrejuets ... - Brioches aux cerises 

^ Croutes aux anchois a I'aspic 

K K 2 



500 



MENUS. 



December. 

Potxcrp<: j Consomme a la Moldave 

•^ I Creme de concombres 

p . { Saumon, sauce homard 

I Filets de sole a la mariniere 
Entr'es * Petites croustades de gibier a la Talle>Tand 

i Filets de volaille aux truffes 
-n 1 , ( Selle de mouton 

iOison a la Viennoise 
Rots fFaisans 

(Becasses 
Legume Pain de chicoree a la creme 

/ Brioches chaudes a la Nesselrode 
Entremets ... \ Melons glaces a la Parisienne 

^ Croutes au jambon 



Potage Consomme printanier 

Hors cVoeiiv7-e Petites bouchees a la Princesse 

Poisson Saumon, sauce Genevoise 

- , , ( Filets de perdreaux k la chasseur 

zi lit fees J 

(Cotelettes de Presale aux petits pois 

P 7 ^ ' { Filet de boeuf a la Proven9ale 

( Poulardes truffees 

r,A, ( Faisans 

Rots -' , , . ... 

( Chaudfroid de mauviettes 

Legume Asperges en branches 

rr . . (Timbales de poires 

Entremets ... J^ ,, ,, ^ 

i Gelee d'oranges garnie 



MENUS. 



SOI 



December, 



Potages (Auxprofiten 

(Creme dorgi 



P01SS071S 



"oUes a la chasseur 
orge a la Victoria 
( Merluches, sauce aux oeufs 
{ Rougets a la cardinal 
{ Croustades de vermicelli a la Perigord 

Entrees - Timbales de creme de volaille 

V Filets de pigeons panes a la Villeroi 
I Dinde a I'Anglaise 

Releves j Jambon a la macedoine 

' Hanche de venaison 
Faisans 
Mauviettes 

Legume Topinambours a la poulette 

Gelee de marasquin garnie de fruits 
Flans de poires a la Portugaise 
^Croutes a I'Indienne 



Rots, 



E7itreinets 



Potage Consomme k la julienne 

Poisson Saumon, sauce Gallipoli 

IP , , ( Petites timbales aux huitres 

£L7ttfees 

(Filets de pluviers aux truffes 

Releve Selle de mouton 

Rot Faisans 

Leginne Cardons k la moelle 

. Pain de foie gras a la gelee 
Ponding souffle au gingembre 
Etttremets ... j Parfait glace a I'orange 

( Petites cremes a la Royale 



502 



MENUS. 



Twenty-four Menus for Four to Six Persons. 



Hotchpotch 
Sea trout 
Rabbit quenelles 
Roast mutton 
Grouse 
Fruit tart 



Grouse soup 
Herring 
Mutton cutlets 
Rabbit pie 
Roast venison 
Miroton of apples 



Barley broth 
Salmon 
Sheep's head 
Chartreuse of grouse 
Roast hare 
Stone cream 



Pea soup 
Soles k I'ltalienne 
Pork cutlets 
Roast capon 
Spinach, dressed 
Jam roll 



Tapioca soup 

Fried smelts 

Slices, fillet of beef 

Boiled pheasant, celery sauce 

Baba 

Anchovy toast 



Palestine soup 
Turbot, caper sauce 
Oyster patties 
Mutton kabobs 
Roast pork 
Sea kale 
Punch jelly 



Ox-tail soup 
Whiting pudding 
Salmis of partridge 
Fillet of beef 
Apricot tartlets 
Indian sandwicheis 



Bonne-femme soup 

Red mullet 

Chicken a la Marengo 

Roast lamb 

Cold ham and jelly 

Pears a la Conde 



Soup, with quenelles 
Salmon, Dutch sauce 
Sheep's tongues, fried 
Beef-steak pudding 
Roast pheasant 
Prune shape, with cream 



Mutton broth 
Fried whiting 
Brains fried in butter 
Roast beef 
Snipe 
Mince pies 



MENUS. 



503 



Puree of pearl barley 
Sole au gratin 
Mutton cutlets 
Partridges, with cabbage 
Cranberry tart 
Cheese beignets 



Hare soup 

Water souche 

Kromeskis 

Braised mutton 

Aspic of pheasant 

Little cups of vanilla cream 



Spring soup 

Cold salmon, Tartar sauce 
Chicken a la Viennoise 
Beef-steak pudding 
Compote of gooseberries 
Souffle of Parmesan cheese 



Clear mock turtle 
Haddock, egg sauce 
Cutlets of chicken, ham 
Rolled loin of mutton 
Marrow bones 
Wine jelly 



Rice soup 

Lobster cutlets 

Calf s head, with tomato sauce 

Ribs of beef rolled 

Fruit tart 

Canapes aux anchois 



Flemish soup 

Skate and black butter 

Beef collops 

Spatchcock chicken 

Mayonnaise lobster 

Rice fritters, with pineapple 



Consomme a la Royale 
Turbot, dressed with cream 
Chaudfroid of brains 
Braised beef 
Larks 
Ginger souffle 



Puree of haricots 

Brill, stuffed with shrimps 

Liver and bacon 

Roast mutton 

Celefy au gratin 

Pastry sandwiches 



Vermicelli soup 
Fillets of sole a la Orly 
Stewed rump steak 
Roast pheasants 
Apple charlotte 
Macaroni, with cheese 



Lentil soup 
Cod, oyster sauce 
Croquettes of game 
Roast mutton 
Artichoke fritters 
Chocolate souffle 



504 



MENUS. 



Julienne soup 
Fish cakes 
Jugged hare 
Boiled beef 
Scolloped oysters 
Albert pudding 



Green pea soup 

Salmon 

Souffle of chicken 

Cold quarter of lamb, salad 

Quails 

Iced gooseberry fool 



Puree of asparagus soup 
Mackerel 
Lamb cutlets 
Roast duck 
Russian salad 

Rice shape, with strawberry 
cream 



Sago soup 
John Dory 
Veal cutlets 

Shoulder of mutton a la Soubis 
Custard pudding, with red cur- 
rant sauce 
Cheese straws 



With these dinners two or three kinds of 
served, of which one is to be potatoes. 



,'egetables are to be 



HOMEL V FARE. 505 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

NO J /EL V BILLS OF FARE. 

Dietary for One Week. 

HOUSEHOLD OF SIX PEOPLE AND THREE CHILDREN AND FOUR 
SERVANTS. 

Sunday. 

Soup. Cold roast beef. Plum pudding or fruit tart. All dine 
in the middle of the day. 

Monday. 
Lafe Dinner. 
Boiled mutton. Hashed beef. Rolypoly pudding. 

Early Dinner for CJiildren and Servants. 
Mutton broth. Boiled mutton. Bread pudding. 

Tuesday. 
Late Dinner. 
Roast leg of mutton. Rissoles. Cabinet pudding. 

Early Dinner. 
Roast mutton. Rice and stewed fruit. 



5o6 HOMEL V FARE. 

Wednesday. 
Lafe Dmner. 
Fish. Cold mutton. Curry. Suet pudding. 

Early Dinner. 
Fish. Cold mutton. Fritters. 

Thursday 
Late Diniier. 
Stewed brisket of beef. Fruit tart. 

Early Diiiner. 
Beef steak. Rice pudding. 

Friday. 
Late Di7ine7', 
Soup. Cold beef. Cutlets. Cabinet pudding 

Early Dimier. 
Tripe or pork. Suet pudding. 

Saturday. 
Late Dinner 
Hot roast beef Pancakes. 

Ea7'ly Dhmer. 
Roast beef. Corn-flour shape and stewed fruit 



HOMELY FARE. 507 

Dietary for Two Weeks. 

family of three people with two servants. 

Sunday. 
Early Di?i7ier. 

From 8 to 9 lbs. of the topside of beef, roasted. Yorkshire 
pudding. Potatoes. Greens. Fruit tart. 

Sitpper. 
Cold beef. Sardines. Cheese. Cold rice pudding and prunes. 

Monday. 
LtincJieon and Servajits' Dmner. 
Cold beef. Potatoes. Beetroot. Cheese. 

Late Dinner. 

Pea soup. Rissoles of meat remaining from previous week 
(veal, mutton, and bacon). Haricot beans. Beetroot. Marmalade 
pudding. 

Tuesday. 
Lujicheon and Servants Dinner. 
Cold beef Potatoes. Milk rice pudding. 

Late Di?iner. 

Sago soup. Veal cutlets. Mashed potatoes. Greens. Tartlets 
and remainder of marmalade pudding warmed. 

Wednesday. 
Luncheon a?id Serz'ants' DinJier. 
Minced beef. Rolypoly pudding. Cheese. 



5o8 HOMELY FARE. 

Late Dinner. 
Filleted plaice. Beef steak. Greens. Potatoes. Irish puddings. 

Thursday. 
Luncheon and Servants' Dinner, 
Roast shoulder of mutton. Greens. Potatoes. Cheese. 

Late Di7iner. 
Clear soup with macaroni. Beef olives. Fried greens. Potatoes. 
Ground rice pudding. 

Friday. 
Lunchev7i and Servajits^ Ditiner. 
Cold mutton. Potatoes. Suet pudding with raisins. 

Late Di7t?ier. 
Lentil soup. Mutton curry. Orange fritters. 

Saturday. 
Luncheon and Se? vants' Dinner, 
Toad-in-a-hole with sausages. Potatoes. Cheese. 

Late Dinner. 

Boiled cod. Mutton cutlets. Potatoes. Haricot beans. Stewed 
fruit. 

Sunday. 
Early Dinner. 

Roast beef (topside, as before). Greens. Potatoes. Rolypoly 
or suet pudding with fruit. 

Supper. 
Cold beef. Brawn. Cheese. Ground rice shape. 



HOMEL V FARE. 509 

Monday. 
Luncheo7i and Servants' Dm7ier. 
Cold beef. Potatoes. Suet pudding with fruit. 

Late Dm7ier. 
Grilled mackerel. Veal cutlets. Open jam tart. 

Tuesday. 
Luncheon and Servants' Dinner. 
Cold beef. Greens. Tapioca pudding. Cheese. 

Late Dinner. 

Pea soup. Slices of beef warmed in gravy with curry powder. 
Remainder of veal cutlets from Monday. Potatoes. Greens. 
Stewed prunes or other fruit. Corn-flour shape. 

Wednesday. 

Liincheofi and Servants' Dintter. 

Hash of beef. Potatoes. Greens. Rice pudding with suet 
instead of eggs. 

^ Late Dinner. 

Clear soup with macaroni. Mutton cutlets. Potatoes. Greens. 
College pudding. 

Thursday. 
Ltincheon and Servajity Di7tner. 

Remainder of mutton cutlets. Hash of odds and ends of meat 
left. Cheese. 

Late Di7i7ier. 

Sago soup. Filleted plaice. Shoulder of mutton. Greens. 
Boiled rice. Remainder of college pudding warmed in slices. 



5IO HOMELY FARE. 

Friday. 
Ltmcheon and Servajits' Dinner 
Cold mutton. Potatoes. Cheese. 

Late Din7ier. 

Boiled mackerel. Hashed mutton. Potatoes. Greens. Pan- 
cakes. 

Saturday. 
Luncheon and Servants^ Dinner 
Toad-in-a-hole with sausages. Rice pudding. 

Late Di?tner. 
Lentil soup. Veal cutlets. Tartlets. 



Dietary for One Week. 



TIME OF YEAR, MAY. FAMILY OF HUSBAND AND WIFE, FOUR 
CHILDREN, AND FOUR SERVANTS. 

Monday. 
Breakfast. 
Porridge. Fried bacon. Eggs. Toast. 

Limcheon and Children's Dinner. 

Leg of mutton. Potatoes. Cabbage. Rhubarb fool. Seed 
cake. 

DiftneK 

Potato soup. Rump steak. Riband potatoes. Dressed French 
beans. Stilton cheese. Dessert. 



HOMELY FARE. 511 

Servajifs' Breakfast. 
Bacon. 

Dinner. 

Leg of mutton (from dining-room). Potatoes. Yorkshire pud- 
ding. 

Slipper. 

Cold mutton. Potatoes. Cheese. 



Tuesday. 

Breakfast. 

Porridge. A fried sole, served with lemon. Marmalade, 
Toast. 

Luncheon a7id Childreiis Ditiner. 

Cold leg of mutton. Powdered potatoes. Pickles. Rice pud- 
ding. Seed cake. 

Dinner. 

Sole (maitre d'hotel). Fried mutton cutlets. New potatoes. 
Spinach. Gooseberr)^ tart. Cheese. Dessert. 

Servants^ Breakfast. 
Bacon. 

Dinner. 

Cold leg of mutton. Potatoes. Suet pudding and treacle. 

Supper. 
Mutton pie (made from the trimmings of the cutlets). Cheese. 



Wednesday. 

Breakfast. 
Porridge. Rolled tongue. Marmalade. Toast. 



512 HOMELY FARE. 

Limcheon and Children's Di?iner. 

Stewed brisket of beef. Haricot beans. Potatoes. Bread- 
and-butter pudding. Biscuits. 

Dinner. 

Gravy soup. Cold brisket of beef Potatoes. Spanish onion 
salad. Souffle. Cream cheese and watercress. Dessert. 

Servants' Breakfast 
Bacon. 

Dinjier. 
Beef-steak pudding. Sago milk. 

Supper. 
Cold brisket of beef Cheese. 



Thursday. 
Breakfast 
Rolled tongue. Poached eggs. ]\Iarmalade. Toast. 

Luncheon and Children's Dijtner. 

Shoulder of mutton and onion sauce. Potatoes. Cold goose- 
berry tart. Biscuits. 

Din7ier. 

Gravy soup. Curry and rice. Mashed potatoes. Cheese 
fondu. Cream cheese. Dessert. 

Servants' Breakfast 
Bacon. 

Dinner. 
Cold brisket of beef Potatoes. Pickles. Rice pudding. 

Supper. 
Cold mutton. Potatoes. Cheese. 



HOMELY FARE. 513 

Friday. 

Breakfast. 
. Rolled tongue. Kidneys. Black currant jam. Toast. 

LuncJieoji and Children's Dinner. 

Hashed mutton with stewed cucumber. Potatoes. Ground 
rice pudding. Plum cake. 

Dinner. 

Stewed eels with wine sauce. Fore C[uarter of lamb. Mint 
sauce. New potatoes. Tartlets. Cheese. Dessert. 

^6'; vants' Breakfast, 
Bacon. 

Dinner. 

Liver and bacon. Potatoes. Rhubarb tart. 

Supper. 
Cold mutton and potatoes. Cheese. 

Saturday. 

Breakfast. 
Porridge. Grated tongue. Sardines. Jam. Toast. 

Luncheon and Children's Dinner. 
Sirloin. Browned potatoes. Gooseberry fool. Plum cake. 

Dinner. 

Vegetable soup. Cold lamb and salad. Potatoes. Dressed 
tomatoes. Stilton cheese. Dessert. 



Servants' Breakfast. 
Bacon. 

L L 



514 HOMELY FARE. 

Di7i7ter. 
Sirloin (from dining-room). Potatoes. Yorkshire pudding. 

Supper. 
Remains of cold lamb and salad. Cheese. 

Sunday. 

Breakfast. 
Croquettes. Eggs. Jam. Toast. 

Liinclieoii. 

Cold sirloin of beef. Lettuces. IMashed potatoes. Curds and 
whey. Caviare and toast. 

Difuier. 

Vegetable soup. Cold pigeon pie. Potatoes. Crumbled eggs 
and bloaters on toast. Brandy creams. Stilton cheese. Dessert. 

Se7'vants^ Breakfast. 
Bacon. 

Dinner. 
Bubble-and-squeak. Potatoes. Bread-and-butter pudding. 

Suppe?: 
Remains of the rolled tongue. Four boiled eggs. Cheese. 



HOMELY FARE. 515 



Dietary for Three Weeks. 

FAMILY OF FOUR AND ONE MATD-SERVANT. 

Sunday. 
Breakfast. 

2 rounds of buttered anchovy toast- i lb. of cold steamed 
bacon. Tea. Bread — whole wheat-meal is the most nutritious. 

Dinner. 

7i lbs. of roast beef. Yorkshire pudding. Potatoes. Brussels 
sprouts (from the garden). Rice pudding. 

These rice puddings are made without eggs ; they are not only 
more economical but much nicer. Use the second rice, which has 
a better flavour than the dearest. Mode. — Put enough rice to 
thickly cover the bottom of a deep pie dish, wash it thoroughly in 
three waters with a spoon, and take out the grit and imperfections ; 
pour over it two pints of milk, and bake in a moderate oven for 
3 hours. 

Supper. 

Cold steamed bacon (the same as at breakfast). Cold open 
tart with plum jam. Potato salad. 

Mode. — Cut about 5 cold potatoes into slices ; sprinkle o\er them 
pepper and salt, i tablespoonful of vinegar, i of oil, and a little 
chopped parsley. 

Monday. 
Breakfast. 

3 boiled eggs. Cold bacon (the same). Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

Cold roast beef Fried potato chips. Salad (from. garden\ 
Apple pudding, boiled 4^ hours, the crust made from beef dripping, 

L L 2 



5i6 HOMELY FARE 

Supper. 

Stewed white haricots. Mode. — The haricots require soaking 
for two days in several waters ; then put them in boihng water and 
boil until tender. This should be done in the morning, as haricots 
vary so much, some taking only one hour while others are scarcely 
cooked in three. When quite boiled, drain them from the water and 
put them in a stewpan in which a small onion cut in dice has first 
been fried. Add to this whatever gravy you may have, or, if none, 
a breakfastcupful made with Liebig. Let it all simmer together 
for about f of an hour, and serve very hot.— Tapioca pudding, 
cooked in the same way as the rice pudding ; it does not require 
washing. 

Tuesday. 

Breakfast. 
I soup plate of bread and milk. Sardines. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

Minced beef, the remnant of the piece of bacon, and any other 
scraps there may be, all mixed together. Potatoes. Stewed Spanish 
onions. The remainder of the apple pudding of the previous day, 
put tidily into a pie dish, adding a few more apples cut into slices ; 
cover it with brown sugar and a little water, to prevent burning. 
Put it into the oven, and bake for one hour. 

Supper. 

Cafe au lait {i\ pints milk). Sardines. Marmalade. Bread and 
toast. 

Wednesday. 
Breakfast. 

Boiled Naples macaroni. W^hen drained from the water, mix 
about a teaspoonful of butter and half a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Stir round gently and quickly, and serve very hot. i lb. 
Naples macaroni will do three times for a breakfast or supper dish 
for 4 people. Tea. Sardines. 



HOMELY FARE. 517 

Diiiner. 

Best end of neck of mutton, 4 lbs. 8 ozs. Take half of this, the 
least fat end, cut it into tidy chops, taking away any superfluous 
fat ; have ready a quantity of potatoes cut in slices and two large 
onions cut in slices. Place in a large saucepan a layer of sliced 
potatoes, then a layer of onions, dredge with pepper and salt, then 
a layer of chops, and so on ; the potatoes should lie at the top. 
Then pour in some cold water until a little is seen at the top ; 
allow the stew to come gradually to boiling point ; then skim, and 
put the saucepan at the side to simmer for 2 hours. This makes a 
delicious Irish stew. Bread pudding. This can be made either 
with milk or cider. Mode. — Put whatever pieces of bread you may 
have into a deep dish ; pour over this sufficient cider overnight to 
5oak the bread thoroughly. The next morning beat it well to a 
pulp with a silver fork ; add some brown sugar, pudding raisins, and 
currants. Butter the pie dish and put into it the pudding ; place 
more small lumps of butter at the top ; bake it in a brisk oven for 
one hour. 

Slipper. 

Cafe au lait. Cold bread pudding : there are generally sufficient 
pieces for two when the dinner's pudding is made. Sardines. 



Thursday. 

Breakfast. 

4 buttered eggs arranged on 4 pieces of buttered toast. Tea. 
Bread. 

DhiJier. 

American dish. Mode. — i lb. fresh pork, the thin streaky part 





used for bacon. Place it in a steamer with boiling water under- 



5i8 HOMELY FARE, 

neath ; when cooked, tear off the skin, cut the meat into squares of 
about \\ inches, place it in a Nottingham jar with a cover ; add one 
onion cut very small, pepper and salt, and the water over which 
it was steamed. Cook \ pint of white haricots in another sauce- 
pan. The foregoing preparations should be made the day before 
it is wanted, as the stew must be emptied into a dish, and all the 
fat taken off before warming it. It must remain in a slow^ oven for 
4 hours the day before it is wanted. The day it is to be eaten the 
haricots are added to the stew, and cooked in the jar as before for 
2 hours. This is a delicious and economical dish, and can be 
varied by sometimes frying the onions first a nice brown, which 
will make it a brown instead of a white stew. If it boils again 
after the first ' boil up,' it is spoiled. 

Supper. 

Macaroni cheese. Cafe au lait. 

Mode of former. — Many people think it necessary to have 
Parmesan cheese for this dish ; ordinary American cheese will be 
found good enough. When the cheese is no longer sightly to come 
to table, cut the rind into suitable pieces and grate into a soup 
plate with all the inside of the cheese. Boil \ lb. of Naples 
macaroni in any stock you may have ; butter a flat baking-dish ; 
place in it a layer of macaroni, drained from the stock in which it 
has been cooked ; then a thick layer of grated cheese, then pepper 
and salt, and so on, until the top layer, which must be of cheese. 
Strew some grated bread, about a teaspoonful, and some little 
bits of butter, over the top. Bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. 
If there is no salamander to brown the top, heat the poker and use 
that. 

Friday. 

Breakfast. 

4 herrings. Tea. Bread. Toast. 

Diniier. 

\\ lbs. veal cutlets, i lb. steamed bacon. Potatoes. Greens 
(from garden). Apple tart. Corn-flour pudding. 

Supper. 
Cold bacon (same as at dinner). Potatoes baked in their skins. 
Cocoa. 



HOMELY FARE. 519 

Saturday. 
Bi-eakfast. 

Steamed bacon (same as at supper). Potatoes and greens, fried 
together a la Dorsetshire, a farm-house practice. 

Dinner. 

The other half of Wednesday's mutton (4 lbs. 8 ozs.), steamed. 
Caper sauce. Potatoes. Turnips (from garden). Pancakes. 

Siippe?'. 

Soup. Rice pudding. Sardines. 

There is always a saucepan for bones, which are chopped and 
boiled with one onion, pepper, and salt. The liquor is put aside 
in a basin, and the fat skimmed before using ; in this way there is 
always enough for soup once, sometimes twice a week, and for 
gravy for minces, &c. Chop one onion fine and fry in butter. 
Boil the liquor and onion together. Cut into very small dice a 
small raw potato ; put it in the tureen and pour the boiling soup 
over it. This may sometimes be varied by using very small squares 
of fried bread instead of the potato, or rice, or tapioca. The round 
tapioca looks best, and must be thoroughly cooked before mixing 
with the soup. 



SECOND WEEK. 



Sunday. 
Breakfast. 
4 rounds of buttered anchovy toast. Tea. Bread. 

Din7ier. 

Roast shoulder of mutton, 5 lbs. Bread sauce. Potatoes. 
Beetroot (from garden). Swiss apple pudding. 

Mode of latter. — Grate half a piedishful of bread ; slice apples ; 
butter pie-dish ; place alternate layers of bread and apple, begin 



520 HOMELY FARE. 

ning with bread ; sprinkle sugar. Bread should be at the top, and 
bits of butter. Bake one hour. 

Supper 
Cold shoulder of mutton. Pickles. Open plum tart. 

Monday. 

Breakfast. 

I bowl of bread and milk. 2 poached eggs on buttered toast. 
I :[ lbs. cold steamed bacon. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

Mutton rissoles from shoulder. Mashed potatoes. Cabbage 
(from garden). Lemon roly pudding. 

Mode. — Soyer's recipe. Cut off the peel of 2 lemons very 
thin ; as, if any white remains, it will be bitter ; squeeze all the 
juice out into a small basin, taking out the pips. Chop the peel 
very fine. Add the lemon juice, and plenty of sugar, and a few 
bread crumbs or plain biscuits ground to powder ; this is to give 
the mixture consistency ; make paste and proceed as for a jam 
roly. The pudding should boil for 3 hours. 

Supper. 

Cafe au lait. 2 rounds of buttered anchovy tcast. Cold 
bacon. 

Tuesday. 

B^-eakfast. 

Fried bacon and potatoes, or fried toast if no potatoes are 
left. Tea. Bread. 

Di7ine7'. 

^ calf's head (medium size), boiled. Parsley and butter sauce. 
\ lb. of sausage meat made into little balls and fried. Potatoes. 
Baked batter pudding with treacle. 

Supper. 

Cocoa. Boiled macaroni, as previously described. 



HOMELY FARE. 521 

Wednesday. 
B^'eakfast. 

Pig's brains ; 3^. worth is enough for 5 people. Arrange in 
layers with bread crumbs and butter ; bake f hour in a brisk oven. 
Sardines. Tea. Bread. 

Dinne7: 

I ^ lbs. veal cutlets. Potatoes. Beetroot (from garden). Tapioca 
pudding. \ lb. stewed prunes. 

Suppe?'. 

Soup from the bones and boilings of calf's head. Small galan- 
tine from ditto. 

Mode. — Cut from the head every piece of flesh ; cut the eye, 
which is pretty and marbled-looking, into tidy slices ; butter a 
small basin or jam pot ; place the nicest-looking pieces at the 
bottom and sides ; put in the rest with pepper, salt, and plenty of 
grated nutmeg ; pour over it gently some gravy from the calf's 
head ; put a weight upon it ; bake it one hour in a slow oven ; 
when quite cold turn it out, and it m.akes an exceedingly nice and 
pretty supper or breakfast dish. 

Thursday. 
Breakfast. 
3 fried eggs and bacon. Tea. Bread. 

Dinnej'. 

Stewed beef kidney, i;^ lbs. Potatoes. Greens (from garden). 
Buttered apples. 

Mode of Dressijig Kidney. — Slice some onions and fry in butter 
a nice brown ; place the kidney whole, after slightly iry'xng it, in a 
large earthenware jar, with the onions, 2 sliced carrots, 2 sliced 
potatoes, I slice lean bacon, i pint of stock or water. Stew gently 
in a slow oven for 3 hours. 

Supper. 

^d. worth of squins, sometimes called scollops, cooked in the 
same way as scalloped O) sters in their shells, with breadcrumbs 
and butter. Coffee. 



522 HOMEL Y FARE. 

Friday. 
Bf eakfast. 
Potatoes and greens fried in bacon fat. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

5^ lbs. best end of neck of mutton; the fattest half roasted. 
Potatoes. Bread sauce. Parsnips (from garden). Lemon tart. 

Mode. — Prepare 2 lemons in the same way as for lemon pud- 
ding, and make with pastry an open tart. 

Supper. 
Cocoa. Rice pudding. Sardines. 

Saturday. 
Breakfast. 
Savoury omelette. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

Stewed cutlets from the remaining half of Friday's mutton. 
Potatoes. Brussels sprouts (from garden). Boiled macaroni pud- 
ding. Jam. Milk. 

Mode of Stewing Cutlets. — Cut the cutlets into tidy shapes, re- 
moving all superfluous fat. Fry in a stewpan several small onions 
in butter, chopped fine ; then put in the cutlets, and pour over 
them about a pint of bone stock ; let them come gradually to boil- 
ing point, and then simmer on the side of the stove for two hours ; 
if there is a great deal of gravy, tiny dumplings may be dropped 
in just as the stew is arriving at boiling point. 

The macaroni is simply boiled tender and served as it is ; a 
little milk and jam may be added to taste. 

Supper. 
Cafe au lait. Welsh rarebit. 



HOMELY FARE. 523 

THIRD WEEK. 

Sunday. 
Bf-eakfast. 

A I -lb. tin of Australian meat. Fried potatoes and greens. 
Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

4 lbs. best end of the loin of pork, roasted. Potatoes. Apple 
sauce. Baroness pudding. 

Mode of latter. — f lb. of suet or dripping, f lb. of flour, f lb. of 
pudding plums and sultanas mixed. Stir into the mixture \ pint 
of milk, and boil for i\\ hours. The goodness of the pudding en- 
tirely depends upon its boiling the proper time. (Mrs. Beeton's 
recipe.) 

Supper. 

Cold Australian meat (that which was left from breakfast). 
Sliced beetroot. Cold rice pudding. 



Monday. 
Breakfast. 
4 boiled eggs. Sardines. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

\ shoulder of mutton, roasted (fat end, 3 lbs.) Onion sauce. 
Bread-and butter pudding. 

Mode of latter. — Cut about 9 slices of thin bread-and-butter ; 
butter a pie-dish ; wash a handful of currants and sultanas, dry 
them perfectly ; place a layer of bread-and-butter in the bottom of 
the dish, then sprinkle the currants and a little brown sugar, and 
nutmeg if liked. Proceed thus until the dish is full, not putting any 
currants on the top layer, as they always burn. Take one ^gg 
and beat it to a regular froth. Add gradually \ pint of milk, and 
pour it over the pudding ; place some small lumps of butter at the 



524 HOMELY FARE. 

top. All these milk puddings are nicer if they are prepared some 
hours before they are put into the oven. This will particularly 
apply to tapioca. 

Slipper. 

Rissoles from the remains of pork of Sunday's dinner. Cafe 
au lait. 

Tuesday. 
Breakfast. 

Potted meat from the remainder of Monday's mutton. Tea. 
Bread. 

Mode. — Cut from the bone every scrap of meat ; mince, and 
then pound it in a mortar. Add \ a teaspoonful of parsley, pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg. Butter a tiny niould or jam-pot ; place 
the mixture in it, and press it tightly down. Pour over it some 
gravy, jellied if possible, and put it in a slow oven for one hour. 
When cold turn it out. 

Dinner. 

2 sheep's heads au gratin. Sauce piquante. Potatoes. Carrots 
fried and then stewed in gravy. Apple pudding, boiled 4 hours. 

Slipper. 
2 mutton kidneys on buttered toast. Cafe au lait. 



Wednesday. 
Breakfast. 
2 sheep's tongues, cold. Fried potatoes. Tea. Bread. 

Diii7ier. 

Roast loin of veal (4 lbs.) Potatoes, i lb. of steamed bacon. 
Lemon pudding. 

Mode. — Chop fine the peel of 3 lemons. Mix with the flour and 
fat and a small teacupful of brown sugar. Boil for 4^ hours. Mix 
the juice of the lemons with some sugar and water, and boil. Serve 
separately in a sauce tureen. 



HOMELY FARE. . 525 

Supper. 
Soup from mutton and pork bones. Cold potatoes h, la maitre 
d'hotel. Jam. 

Thursday. 
Breakfast. 

Boiled macaroni with parsley and butter (as before). Bread. 
Cocoa. 

Dinner, 

Minced veal and the remains of the bacon. Potatoes. Cabbage 
(from garden). Tapioca pudding. Stewed apples. 

Supper. 

Lentil soup. Chocolate pudding. 

Mode of Soup. — Take \ lb. of lentils. Cook until quite tender. 
Pass through a coarse sieve. Chop up one Spanish onion, and 
fry it a nice brown in a stewpan. Then pour the lentil soup over 
it and boil it up together and serve ver\^ hot. This is enough for 
5 persons, costs about ^d.., and is very good. 

Mode of Pudding. —\\ sticks of Menier's chocolate ; pound to 
powder. Mix with \ pint of milk. Beat to a froth 2 eggs, and 
gradually mix with i pint milk. Then gradually pour in the 
chocolate and milk. Place the mixture in a wqde-mouthed jug. 
Put the jug in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir continually with a 
fork one way, and when it is beginning to thicken or set, take it 
out of the saucepan, but go on stirring for a little. As soon as the 
mixture is not too hot to break a glass dish, pour it into one, and 
serve cold. 

Friday. 
Breakfast. 
5 herrings. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

Roast sirloin of beef, 5 lbs. Potatoes. Parsnips (from garden). 
Apple tart. Corn-flour mould (without eggs). 

Supper. 
Cafe au lait. h lb. of cooked ham from pork butcher. 



526 HOMELY FARE. 

Saturday. 
Dintier. 

American stew from the remainder of the beef. Potatoes. Stewed 
haricots. Cranberry tart. 

Mode of American Stew. — Fry two large Spanish onions in 
butter. Mince the beef without any fat, and mix with the onions ; 
if it is getting dry pour in a Httle Liebig mixture, but it ought not 
to have gravy ; the meat only requires to be warmed through and 
served very hot. It is a dish that the cook cannot leave, as it will 
burn. This is equally good done with the remains of salt beef 

N.B. — Surprise may be felt at seeing apparently so much butter 
used in the foregoing recipes. The experience of the writer of this 
dietary is that if dripping is used it spoils the dish, and it is not 
eaten ; but very little butter is required, and a cheap dish is made 
palatable, consequently eaten, and consequently digested. Soyer 
says this, and he is right. The quantity of butter we use per week, 
including the small pieces required for cookery, is 2\ lbs. for five 
people. We always have five o'clock tea in the drawing-room, and 
at least three times a week people drop in, and therefore more bread- 
and-butter is required ; but we find this quantity of butter is enough. 

It is not mentioned in the menus that cheese is always on the 
able for supper, and a little butter. 

We use not quite f lb. of tea per week, and about i lb. of coffee 
per fortnight, and 2 packets of Cadbury's essence of cocoa. We 
do not make the cocoa according to the directions outside, but 
thus : i:^ teaspoonsful of cocoa to every half-pint of milk. First mix 
the cocoa with a little milk until it is a smooth paste, then gradually 
add the rest of the milk. Put it in an enamelled saucepan kept 
for the purpose, and allow it to come to boiling point. Then pour 
it into a cocoa pot, and it is ready. If properly made, this is almost 
equal to a cup of chocolate. 

There is always sufficient fat from the various joints, which 
makes enough dripping for puddings ; it must always first be 
purified. W^e scarcely ever have to order suet ; a properly made 
crust of dripping is preferable to chopped suet, and more digestible. 
Yeatman's baking powder is mixed with every crust. 

There is a saucepan on purpose for boiling bones, and we often 
have thick jelly from the bones ; pork and veal make the best ; and 



HOMELY FARE. 527 

that gives sufficient jelly for the minces, galantines, and stewed 
cutlets, &c. 

Many people think it extravagant to use eggs in cooker}^ ; the 
writer differs from them ; if one or two eggs help to make an 
eatable dish, it is an economy ; however dear eggs, milk, or butter 
may be, they are always cheaper than the cheapest meat. \\Tiere 
people can eat their food anyhow^ of course it would be an ex- 
travagance to use eggs ; but if dishes are badly prepared, and not 
eaten, there is daily waste, besides the doctor's bill. 

Things cannot be done in the way we have them unless the 
mistress personally superintends. The writer is in her kitchen 
every day from ten until half-past eleven, and prepares everything, 
but she never stands over the fire cooking, nor does anything to 
spoil her hands. Everything in the way of preparation can be 
done with a knife and fork, and gloves can be worn in the winter. 

There is a thick oak board about 1 1 inches square for cutting 
up meat, which is much more convenient than a dish. 

This dietar}^ is for the month of October ; as spring advances 
one can have a few other things. Where families are large, there 
is no cheaper mode of living than large joints, but not for a small 
family. Boiled salt beef is ver}^ good, but we never have it, as one 
ought not to have a joint of less than 14 lbs. to be really good. 

A way of using up the pieces of bread is to dip them one by 
one quickly in milk, put them on a baking tin (never used for any- 
thing greasy) in a very hot oven. In five minutes they will become 
hot and crisp. When cold put them away in a biscuit box, and 
eat with cheese. If there are any unsightly pieces, they should be 
arranged to look tidy ;. the pieces should not be larger than two 
mouthsful. 



528 A HANDSOME TABLE. 



Sketch of Breakfast, Dinner, and Lunch for Four 
to Six Persons on a liberal Scale. 

Breakfast. 

Tea and coffee. 2 hot dishes — fish, eggs, bacon, broil, (See. : 
2 cold dishes — ham or tongue, pie or galantine. Rolls or scones. 
Bread and toast. Honey, marmalade, and jam. Butter. A plain 
cake. Porridge. Fruit. 

Lunch. 

One joint. One entree. Cold meat — with ham or tongue always 
available both for lunch and breakfast. Fruit tart or its equivalent. 
Milk pudding or its equivalent. Potatoes and one other vegetable. 
2 cakes, one with raisins, one seed or ginger. Fruit. Cheese. 
Butter. 

Dinner. 

Soup. Fish. One or two entrees. Joint. 2 vegetables. Salad. 
Poultr)^, game, or savoury dish. Dressed vegetable. Sweet dish. 
Sardines au parmesan or a dish of a similar character. Cheese. 
Butter. Oatcake or biscuits. Desseri. 



INDEX. 



ANC 

A XCHOVY allumettes, 259 
^^^ — butter, 259 

— cushions, 260 
— - tartines, 259 

— toast, 258 

— sauce, 290 
Apple charlotte, 374 

— cheese, 416 

— jelly, 402 

— marmalade, 375 

— meringue, 370 

— miroton, 375 

— pudding, 376, 377 
baked, 378 

— ■ — Swiss, 519 
Apples, buttered, 376 
Apricots a la Conde, 372 
Artichokes a la Barigoule, 318 

— a la Hollandaise, 318 

— a ritalienne, 318 

— augratin, 317 

— cream of, 319 

— globe, 317 

— Jerusalem, 317 

— mayonnaise of, 319 
Asparagus, 319 
Aspic jelly, 299 
economical, ^01 



"DABA, Polish, 387 
^ Baking, 60 

— Sheffield pan for, 21 
Bai-ley water, 457 
Batter, baked, 305 

— fr)-ing, 305 
Beans, French, 321 

— flageolets, 321 

— haricot, 321 

— Windsor, 322 



BOM 
Beef, 144 

— a la Flamande, 144 

— a la mode, 145 

— a la Lyonnaise, 1 54 

— brisket of, 145 

— Chateaubriand of, 148 

— collared, 146 

— fillet of, 146 

as an entree, 147 

braised, 147 

— hashed, 166 

— palates, 153 

— pickle for, 156 

— pie, with potato crust, 151 

— potted, 155 

— ribs of, 144 

— sirloin of, 144 

— tournedos of, 148 

— time for roasting, 59 

— salt, time for boiling, 64 

— steak or rump steak, 149 
stewed, 151 

pudding, 149 

rolls, 150 

— tea, 450 

cold, 452 

Beetroot, 357 
Beignets, 372 

— a la bonne femme, 384 
Birds, small, time for roasting, 

59 

Biscuits, devilled, 261 

— a la Russe, 261 
Blancmange, 364 
Boar's head, 197 
Boiling, 64 

— time table for, 64 

— meat, when both broth and 
meat are served, 65 

Bombay toast, 258 



M M 



530 



INDEX. 



BON 



Bones, 71 

Book, consumption, 48 
Brain patties, 168 
Braising, 59 
Brandy clierries, 41 S 
Brawn, 196 

— pickle for, 196 
Bread, chapter on, 433 

— home-made, 435 

— - in a Sheffield baking pan, 436 
Bread crumbs, 301, 302 
Bream, sea, French name for, 138 

grilled, 113 

sauce for, 113 

weight of, 138 

when in season, 140 

Brillj 104 

— a la ravigote, 106 

— French name for, 13S 

— weight of, 138 

— - when in season, 140 
Brioche buns, 440 
Broiling, 65 
Broth, 71, 453 

— mutton, 98 

— Scotch, 99 
Brussels sprouts, 315 
Buns, Bath, 439 

— currant, 439 

— brioche, 440 
Butter, black, 274 

— melted, 274 



pABBAGE, 313 

^^ — balls with rice, 314 

— ladies', 314 

— red, 316 

Cake, chocolate, 440 

— fruit gingerbread, 444 

— plain, 441 

— soda, 438 

— Strasbourg, 441 

— without eggs, 442 
Cakes, chapter on, 433 

— girdle, 448 

— indsan meal breakfast, 449 

— Queen's, 443 

Calfs brains, croquettes of, 180 

— foot jelly, 404 



CHI 

Calfs liver, ' pain' of, 181 

— — imitation pate de foie gras 
of, 187 

— head, 179 

a la Ste-Menehould, 180 

in a mould, 189 

Canapes of egg, 255 
Carbolic acid for larder, 22 
Cardoons, 325 
Carp, 116 

— baked, 1 17 

— French name for, 138 

— weight of, 138 
Carrots a I'Allemande, 348 

— a la Bechamel, 349 

— a la poulette, 349 

— fried, 350 

— stewed, 349 

— with green peas, 350 
Carving, 34 
Cauliflower, 323 

— au gratin, 323 

— scalloped, 324 
Celery a I'espagnole. 324 

— turnip-rooted, 324 

— salad, 358 

Char, French name for, 138 

— weight of, 138 
Chaud-froid, 237 

Chicken a la bonne femme, 212 

— a la Chabert, 212 

— a la Dumas, 210 

— a la Marengo, 211 

— a la Mona, 21 1 

— a la princesse, 204 

— a la Romaine, 210 

— broiled, 202 

— cigarettes a la reine, 200 

— cream of, 199 

— chaud-froid of, 237 

— curried, 208 

— entrees of, 198 

— fillets of, 201 

— fricassee of, 204, 205 

— fried, 209 

— galantine of, 213 

— how to cut up, 199 

— jelly, 453 

— mayonnaise of, 20 r 

— patties a la reine, 201 





INDEX. 53 


CHI 


DIN 


Chicken pillau, 2o6, 207 


Cream, strawberry, &c., 363 


— pie, 215 


— velvet, T^dT^ 


— pudding, 203 


Creme d'orange, 420 


— souffle of, 200 


Croquettes, 242 


— to bone, 214 


— of chestnut, 388 


— with rice, 209 


Croustades, 302 


Chicor)', 344 


— aux truffes, 267 


Chillo, 171 


Croutes aux abricots, 371 


Cheese biscuits, 253 


— aux fraises, 371 


— boiled, 254 


Croutons, 301, 302 


— canapes, 263 


Cucumber, 357 


— custard, 249 


— and beef marrow, 328 


~ salad, 253 


Cup, chablis, cider, &c., 421 


— souffle, 250 


Curried eggs, 257 


— stewed, 252 


— kabobs, 240 


— tartlets, 251 


— vegetables, 350 


— toasted, 252 


Curry, 239 


— ramequins, 250, 251 


— Australian meat, 241 


— with macaroni, 264 


— fish soup, 81 


— cakes, 389 


— fish, sauce for, 279 


Cherries in brandy, 418 


— hake, 126 


Chestnuts, croquettes of, 388 


— lobster, 124 


Chester cakes, 251 


— oyster, 134 


Chocolate cake, 440 


Custard, 360, 362 


— parfait au, 432 


— cheese, 249 


— pudding, 525 


— for ices, 427 


— to drink, 454, 456 


— for ice pudding, 424 


Cigarettes a la reine, 200 


— puddings, 361 


Civet de lievre, 227 


— for soup, 296 


Cocked hats, 448 


Cutlets, braised, 163 


Cockles, when in season, 142 


— lamb, 172, 173 


Cod, French name for, 138 


— mutton, 160 


— sauce for, 107 


for an invalid, 454 


— sliced, 107 


— pigeon, 219 


— to boil, 107 


— Prince of Wales', 163 


— weight of, 1 38 


— pork, 190, 191 


— when in season, 140 


— rice, 244 


Colcanon, 316 


— stewed, 164, 522 


Compote of pears, 373 


— veal, 177, 178 


Consomme, 74, 76 




Cook, dress of the, 56 




Cookery, defects in, 52, 53 


T^AB, French name for, 138 
— when in season, 140 


^ chief operations of, 58 


Crab, when in season, 142 


Dampfnudeln, 382 


— mock, 253 


Devi led biscuits, 261 


Crayfish, in soup, 90 


Dietaries for small households. 


— when in season, 142 


505, 528 


Cream, 360 


Dinner, ordering of, 14, 31 


— in small pots, 362 


— serving, and waiting at, 31 


— chocolate, 362 


— servants at, 32 



532 INDEX 

DIN 

Dinners, menus for, tliroughout 
the year, 466 

— small menus for, 502 

— for small households, 505, 

Dmner party, art of giving a, 3 
■ — guests at a, 4 

— precedence at a, 6 

— number of servants at a, 33 
Dinner table, 7, 8 



FRY 

Eggs and sprue, 320 
Endive, dressed, 330 
English meaning of French 

names of dishes, 462, 463, 

464 
Espagnole or brown sauce, 272 
Expenditure, 45, 49, 50 
— different scales of, 47, 48 



— arrangement of, 35 


piLLETofbeef, .f^^Besf 
Fish, chapter on, loi 


— floral decorations for, 38 


Dishing up, 28 


— breakfast, 126 


— silver border for, 29 


— different kinds of, in season^ 


Dormers, 247 


140 


Dory, John, the, 106 


— kitcherie, 262 


— French name for, 138 


— kettle, copper, 105 


— sauce for, ic6 


— pudding, 123 


— weight of, 138 


— salt, a la Lyonnaise, 114 


— when in season, 140 


— a la bonne femme, 1 14 


Drink for an invalid, 452 


— to clean, loi 


Dripping, to clarify, 63, 292 


— to cook, 102 


Duck, 217 


— with its own sauce, 122 


— time for roasting, 59 


— for curry soup, 81 


— braised, 218 


Flageolets, 321 


— devilled, 220 


Flavouring, 53 


— a la St. Michel, 218 


— herb powder for, 307 


— wild, 234 


Flounder, French name for, 139 


Dumpling, suet, 306 


— as water souche, 118 




— when in season, 140 




Flour, boiled, for sauces, 273 


-pELS, 119 

-*-^ — French name for, 138 


— for bread and cakes, 433 


— to brown, 273 


— fried, 119 


Flowers for the dinner table. 


— collared, 120 


38 


— stewed, 120 


Fondu, 249 


— a la poulette, 120 


Fowl, to bone a, 214 


— when in season, 140 


— pillau, 206 


Eggs, 254 


— time for roasting, 59 


— choice of, 359 


— for boiling, 65 


— on china, 255 


French names of dishes with 


- canapes'of, 255 


English equivalents, 461, 462, 


— broken, with asparagus 


463, 464 


points, 255 


Friar's omelette, 369 


— in cases, z^^ 


Fricandeau of veal, 175 


— brouill.'s a I'lndienne, 256 


Fruit syrup, 417 


— curried, --57 


Frying, 61 


— ala S' 1 nes, 257 


— temperature required for, 62 


— for saucr 70 


— wire basket for, 63 


— balls i< ' rnishing, 299 


Frying pan, 62 



GAL 
(^ALANTINE of .-hicken, 
^ 215 

— small, 521 

— of sucking pig, 195 

— of veal, 186, 213 
Game, 222 

— chaud-froid of, 237 

— to keep from tainting, 222 

— to roast, 222 

— pie, 236 

— omelette soufflee of, 23S 
Game larder, charcoal in, 20 
Garnishes, 293 

— floating for soup, 295 

— a la financiere, 298 
Gebackene Hlihner, 209 
Gimblettes, 443 
Gingerbread, 444 

— thick, 445 

— nuts, 445 
Glaze, 303 

— pot for, 303 
Goose, 217 

— time for roasting, 59 
Grayling, French name for, 

139 

— size of, 138 
Gridiron, 66 
Gudgeons, 115 
Guisado, 228 
Gurnard, 107 

— French name for, 139 

— sauce for, 107 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 140 



TTADDOCK, stuffed, 119 
-*■"*- — weight of, 138 

— French name for, 139 

— when in season, 140 
Haggis, 167 

Hake, 126 

— when in season, 140 
Ham, broiled, 192 

— steamed, 192 

— to boil, 193 

— to cure, 193 

— to pickle, 193 

— time for boiling, 64 



LYDEX. 533 

ISI 
Hare, fillets of, 228 

— jugged, 227 

— to bone a, 226 

— time for roasting, 59 
Haricots, 321 

— stewed, 516 
Hen's milk, 458 
Herb powder for flavouring, 307 
Herring, 117 

— French name for, 139 
— ■ sauce for, 117 

— when in season, 140 

— balls, 118 
Hominy, 342 

— boiled, 342 

— croquettes, 344 

— fried, 343 

— for garnishing, 297 
Household, management of a 

small, 526 

— sketch for daily meals in a, 
528 



T CE, chocolate cream, 426 
-*■ — Bavaria cream, 429 

— different sorts of cream, 429 

— pineapple cream, 426 

— tea cream, 428 

— Chinese, 429 

— almond water, 431 

— chocolate water, 430 

— cinnamon water, 430 

— coffee water, 430 

— ginger water, 429 

— pineapple water, 43c 

— pistachio water, 431 
Ice machine, 423 
Ices, chapter on, 422 

— fruit, 425 

— fruits for, 425, 427, 428 

— list of cream, with accom- 
panying water, 431 

— to be eaten alone, 431 
Indian corn porridge, 342 
Indian meal breakfast cakes, 

450 
Invalids, cookery for, 450 
Irish stew, 166 
Isinglass, home-made, 102 



534 

JAM 

JAMS, 413 

J Jelly, apple, 402 

— barberry, 414 

— black currant, as a sweet 
dish, 401 

— bread, 457 

— calfs foot, 404 

— chicken, 453 

— fruit, 412 

— grape, 413 

— orange, 402 

— prune, 401 

— quince, 414 

— with liqueur flavour, 406 



TT'ABOBS, curried, 240 
-^^ — Turkish, 169, 170 
Kalolmar, 248 
Kidneys, dressed, 521 

— grilled, 168 

— sautes, 169 
Kiselle. 371 

Kitchen, cleanliness in the, 19 

— utensils, 23 

lists of, 24 

Kitcherie, 262 
Kohlrabi, au gratin, 329 

— mashed, 328 

— steamed, 328 
Kottbullar, 248 
Koumiss, substitute for, 459 
Kromeskis, 243 
Kiigelhiipfe, 442 



T AMB cutlets, 172, 173 
-*— ' — epigramme of, 17] 

— time for roasting, 59 
Lampems, 127 

— French name for, 139 
Lampreys, 127 

- — French name for, 139 
Lard, to purify, 291 
Larder, 20, 21, 23 
Larks, salmis of, 221 
Leche Crema, 384 
Leeks, stewed, 334 
L-emonade, 459 
Lemon sponge, 368 



INDEX. 



MEN 
Lentils, 323 
Lettuce m stock, 329 

— stewed, 330 
Leveret, 229 

— time for roasting, 59 
Liebig's Extractum Carnis, 451 
Liver and bacon, 181 
Lobster curry, 124 

— cutlets, 124 

— — sauce for, 125 

— French name for, 143 



lyr ACARONI, 263 
•*■ -^ — au gratin, 264 

— boiled, 516 

— cheese, 264, 518 

— timbale, 265 

— with tomatoes, 264 
Mackerel, broiled, 108 

— a la maitre d'hotel, 109 

— French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 140 
Madeleines, 388 
Maigre soups, 95 

— sole a la Normande, 112 

— sturgeon dressed as creme de 
volaille, 126 

Marmalade, orange, 415 

— pineapple, 416 

— pudding, 395 
Marrow patties, 154, 155 
Mayonnaise of artichokes, 319 

— of chicken, 201 

Meat, Australian curried, 241 

— broken, 46 

— killing and hanging of, 13, 
17, 20, 21 

— potted, 524 

— minced, 247 

— tea and drinks, 451, 452 

— tinned, with rice, 241 
Mehlspeise, 383 
Menus, chapter on, 460 

— explanation of names, 462 

— for January, 466 ; February, 
469 ; March, 472 ; April, 475 . 
May, 478 ; June, 481 ; July, 
484; August, 487; September, 



INDEX. 



535 



MEN 
490 ; October, 493 ; Novem- 
ber, 496 ; December, 499 

Menus, twenty-four, for small 
dinners, 502 

■Meringue, apple, 370 

Milk digested, 459 

Mincemeat, 406, 407 

-^ pies, 407 

Minced meat, 247 

Muffins, 437 ; rice, 438 

Mullet (red), 108 

— French name for, 139 
■ — en papillotes, T08 

— sauce for, 108 

— - when in season, 140 

— weight of, 138 

Mullet (grey), Avhen in season, 
140 

— weight of, 138 
Mushrooms, 331 

— for garnishing, 298 
Mussels, when in season, 142 
]\Iustard, 271 

Mutton, 157 

— broth, 98 

— chops, 165 

— with sauce piquante, 165 

— boned leg of, 157 

— braised leg of, 158 

— roast, a la venaison, 158 

— neck of, with rice, 159 

— steak and potato, 160 

— cutlets, 160 

— haricot, 164 

— hashed, 166 

— time for roasting, 59 

— time for boiling leg of, 64 

— and fowl pillau, 206 

— ' Chillo,' 171 



ATEAPOLITAN cake, 386 

Norwegian Lax, 104 
Nottingham jar, 59 
Nudeln au parmesan, 252 



( \^ UFS brouilles a I'lndienne, 

^-^ 256 

Olives for garnishing, 298 



PAR 
011a podrida, 239 
Omelettes, 254 
Omelette, friar's, 369 

— oyster, 132 

— soufiflee, 366 

— of game, 238 

— with tomatoes, 346 
Onions, 332 

— a la poulette, 334 

— baked, 333 

— for garnishing, 297 

— glazed, 333 
Orange baskets, 403 

— creme d', 420 

— gin, 420 

— jelly, 402 

— marmalade, 415 

— to preserve whole, 415 
Oven for pastry, 69 
Ox-cheek, 152 

Oxtail, 152 

— sauce for, 152 
Oysters, 127 

— au parmesan, 136 

— a la Villeroi, 134 

— curried, 134 

— devilled, 135 

— en papillotes, 137 

— forcemeat of, 135, 136 

— fried, 137 

— kabobs of, 136 

— kromeskis of, 127 

— loaves of, 128 

— omelette of, 132 

— patties of, 133 
Oyster sauce, 132, 291 

— sausages, 131 

— scalloped, 131 

— stewed, 128 

— toast, 129 

— vol-au-vent of, 130 
— when in season, 142 

— with macaroni, 128 



pALATES, beef, 153 

— a la Lyonnaise, 154 
Panada, 456 
Pancakes, 385 
Parfait au chocolat, 432 



536 INDEX. 

PAR 
Parsley, fried, 296 
Partridge, chartreuse of, 229 

— with cabbage, 230 

— salmis of, 232 

— souffle of, 230 

— time for roasting, 59 
Paste for raised pies, 66 

— for timbales, 67 

— puff, 68 
Pastr}% 66 

— Genoese, 381 
Pate de foie gras, imitation, 187 
Patties a la reine, 201 

— cold bread, 260 
Peas, 338 

— and carrots, 350 

— and ham, 340 

— dressed, 339 

— stewed, 339 
Pease pudding, 306 
Perch, as water souche, iiS 

— French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 
Periwinkles, season for, 142 
Perquisites, 46 
Pheasant a la soubise, 231 

— a la St-Cloud, 231 

— salmis of, 232 

— time for roasting, 59 
Pickle for beef, 156 

— for brawn, 196 

— for ham, 193 

— for pork, 194 

— for tongue, 156 
Pie, beef, 151 

— game, 236 
- — pigeon, 219 

— with potato crust, 215 
Pigeon cutlets, 219 

— aux petits pois, 220 

— pie, 219 
Pig's feet a la Ste-Menehould, 

191 
Pike, French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 
Pilchard, 118 

— how to distinguish from her- 
ring, 118 

— French name for, 139 

— when in season, 140 



PUD 

Pillau, plain fowl, 206, 207 

— mutton and fowl, 206 
Pineapple marmalade, 416 
Plaice, French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 140 
Plover, 235 

Polenta, 340, 341 

Pollack, French name for, 139 

Polio con arroz, 209 

Pork, 190 

• — - American way, 517 

— cutlets, 190, 191 

— fresh, when in season, 14 

— pickle for, 194 

— roast spare rib, 190 

— time for roasting, 59 

— time for boiling, 65 
Potato salad, 358, 515 

— balls, 336 

— chips, ZZ^ 

Potatoes, a la maitre d'hotel, 337 

— new, 335 

— old, 335 

— puff, 337 

— for garnishing, 297 

— savoury, 336 

— to boil, 334 

■ — with truffles, 356 
Potted beef, 155 

— meat, 524 
Poultry, chapter on, 198 

— devilled legs of, 221 
Prawns, when in season, 142 
Preserves, chapter on, 412 
Profiterolles as a sweet dish, 389 
■ — for soup, 295 

Prunes, gateau de, 401 
- — jelly, 401 
Ptarmigan, 235 
Pudding, amber, 393 

— bakewell, 396 

— baroness, 523 

— baked apple, 399 

— bread and butter, 397, 523, 

524 

— bread, 517 

— caramel, 392 

— chocolate, 397, 525 

— Christmas, 408 



INDEX. 



537 



PUD 
Pudding, Eve's, 394 

— fig> 394 

— Genoese, 398 

— German, 394 

— Irish, 395 

— ice, 424 

— Indian C( 



SAL 



596 



— Lady Raglan, 392 

— lemon, 520, 525 

— marmalade, 395 

— a la mousseline, 399 

— Newark, 393 

— pease, 306 

— poor man's, 400 

— plum, 408 

— potato, 391 

— rice without eggs, 515 

— sauces for, 409 

— semmel, 390 

— sago, 398 

— Snowdon, 392 

— suet, 306 

— Sunday, 399 

— Swiss apple, 519 

— tapioca, 398 

— the children's, 376 

— Yorkshire, 304 
Puddings, 361 
Puff paste, 389 
Punch, 419 

— milk, 419 

— roman, 420 
Purees, 91 



QUAILS, 233 
i^ — compote of, 233 
Quenelles, 183, 184 

— for soup, 73 

— of whiting, 113 



■n ABBITS, 215 

•^^ — barbecued, 217 

— boudins of, 216 

— gi-enadins of, 216 
Ramequin a la Genevoise, 251 
Ramequins a la Raymond, 250 
Ravioli, 245 
Refrigerator, 27 



Restorative, a, 458 
Rice cutlets, 244 

— cakes, 379 

— croquettes, sweet, 379 

— gateau of, a la bourgeoise, 3S0 

— a la Milanaise, 268 
• — muffins, 438 

— patties, 244 

— pudding with apples, 301 

— savoury, 268 

— to boil, 304 

— Turkish, 267 
Rissoles, 242 
Roasting, 58 

time-table for, 59 



Rod Gr 



170 



Rolls, Vienna, 436 

— French, 437 
Roux for sauces, 271 
Rump steak, 149 

— stewed, 151 

— pudding, time for boiling, 65 



C ALAD, chapter on, 351 
•^ — a la Casanova, 265 

— a la jardiniere, 356 

— beetroot, 357 

— celery, 265 

— celery and truffles, 358 

— cucumber, 357 

— July, 355 

— Madame's, 354 

— potato, 358, 515 

— potato and truffles, 356 

— Russian, 266, 354 

— winter, 356 
Salmis, of game, 232 

— of larks, 221 

— of snipe, 234 

— - of woodcock, 234 
Salmon, curry, 103 

— French name for, 139 

— Norwegian Lax, 104 

— sauce for, 103 

— steaks, 103 

— tinned, 104 

— to boil, 103 

— when in season, 142 

— weight of, 138 



538 

SAL 
Salsify, or mock oysters, 327 

— fried, 327 
Sandwiches, 307 

— Indian, 240 
Sardines au parmesan, 262 

— en papillote, 263 

— French name for, 139 
Sauce, 269 

— apple, 287 

— a la Milanaise, 286 

— a la poulette, 276 

— a la d'Uxelles, 276 

— a la Ste-Menehould, 277 

— a la matelote, 280 

— a la Tartare, 280 

— anchovy, 290 

— apricot, 411 

— brown, 272 

— brown caper, 281 

— Bearnaise, 279 

— Bigarade, 289 

— bread, 290 

— cauliflower, 281 

— chestnut, 282 

— Czarina, 278 

— Chaudeau, 410 

— Dutch, 274 

— egg, 281 

— fair maid's, 278 

— fennel, 275 

— for fish, see Fish 
— - fruit, 410 

— - fumet of game, 288, 289 

— gooseberry, 287 

— horse-radish, 282 

— hard, 411 

— Italian, 291 

— mayonnaise, 283 

— mint, 290 

— mirepoix, 278 

— oyster, 132, 291 

— parsley, 275 

— Perigueux, 277 

— puree of mushroom, 286 

— Remoulade, 277, 278 

— Robert, 279 

— sage, 290 

— soubise, 285 

— syrup, 410 

— tartar, 284 



INDEX. 



SOU 

Sauce, tomato, 288 

— Villeroi, 275 

— white, 272, 273 

— white caper, 281 

— whipped sweet, 41 1 

— wine, 409 

Sauces for puddings, 409 

Saute-ing, 60 

Saute-pan, 61 

Scollops, when in season, 142 

Scones, 446 

— crisp brown, 447 

— plain water, 447, 448 

— cocked hats, 448 
Scotch woodcock, 258 
Shad, 116 

— French name for, 139 

— when in season, 142 

— with sorrel, 116 
Sheep's brains, 167, 168 
Shrimps, 125 

— when in season, 142 
Sippets, 301 

Skate, 106 

— French name for, 139 

— sauce for, 106 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
Smelts, 123 

— French name for, 139 

— size of, 138 

— stewed, 124 

— when in season, 142 
Snipe, 235 

— salmis of, 234 
Sole, a I'aurore, no 

— au gratin, no 

— a la Trouville, in 

— a la Normande, in 

— fillets of, au gratin, 112 
a la Orl>, 113 

— French name for, 139 

— fried, 109 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
Sorrel, 344 

Souche, water, 118 
Souffle, chicken, 200 

— chocolate, 567 

— ginger, 367 



INDEX. 



539 



sou 

Souffle, iced savoury, 246 

— omelette, 366 

— au Parmesan, 250 

— partridge, 230 

— steamed, 368 

— sweet, 365 
-- tomato, 345 
Soup, 70, 71 

— bonne femme, S9 

— bisque, 90 

— clear, 74, 76 

— clear grouse, 83 

— clear hare, 83 

— clear lettuce, 78 
— ■ cheap, 100, 519 

— cockie-leekie, 85 

— egg, 89 

— fish curry, 81 

— giblet, 93 

— hare, 82 

— hotch-potch, 94 

— Italian pastes, with, 8S 

— Jenny Lind, 89 

— Julienne, 76 

— lentil, 525 

— lettuce, 78 

— mock turtle, 84 

— mulligatawny, 79, 80 

— mutton broth, 98 

— nudel, 90 

— oxtail, 85 

— ordinary, 75 

— pea, green, 86, 87 

— winter, 87 

vSoup, potage brunoi^e, 77, 78 

— purees, 91 

— puree of tomato, 93 

— puree of turnip, 93 

— puree of game, chicken^ or 
rabbit, 98 

— quenelles for, 74 

— Queen's, 91 

— Russian, 79 

— Scotch broth, 99 
- to clear, 75 

- turtle, 83 

— vegetables for, 73 

— venison, 83 

— with bread, 76 
SoiTpe maigre, 95 



TEX 



Soupe maigre, milk of almonds 

95 

summer, 96 

cheap, 96 

lentil, 97 

white, 97 

■ pearl bailey, 98 

Spinach, 344 

— in German fashion, 345 
Spit, cradle, 26 

Sprat, French name for, 139 

— when in season, 142 

— size of, 138 
Sprue and eggs, 320 
Stew, Irish, 517 

— American, 526 
Stock, 71 

Stock pot, 72, 73 
Stove, cooking, 23 
Stuffing, for meat, 293 

— for fish, 293 

— for turkey, 294, 295 

— for rabbit, 294, 295 

— for veal, 294 
Sturgeon, 126 

— French name for, 139 

— for jfiaigre days, 126 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
Sucking pig, 195 

galantine of, 195 

Suet, to clarify, 292 

— dumpling, 306 

— pudding, 306 
Supreme de volaille, 201 
Sweetbreads, 185 

Sweet dishes, chapter on, 359 
Syrup of gum, 459 



'T*ABLE, decoration and ai 
-*- rangement of, 35 
Tagliarini, 265 
Tapioca and cream, 454 
Tart, raspberr}' and rusk, 369 
Tartelettes a la Sefton, 251 
Teal, devilled, 220 

— roast, 234 

Tench, as water souche, liS 

— French name for, 139 



540 INDEX. 

TEN 
Tench, weight of, 139 
Timbales a la Pahlen, 246 

— of macaroni, 265 
Tipsy cake, 386 
Toast, dry, 457 
Tomatoes, dressed, 345 

— a la proven^ale, 346 

— omelette of, 346 

— souffle of, 345 

— with Indian corn, 346 
Tomato, preserve of green, 417 
Tongue, pickle for, 156 

— pressed, 156 
Trout, fried, 121 
■ — au bleu, 121 

— croquettes of, a la russe, 122 

— French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 
Trout, sea, 122 

— French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
Truffles, 332 

— in salad, 356, 358 
Turkey, time for boiling, 65 
■ — time for roasting, 59 

— to bone a, 214 
Turbot, au gratin, 105 

— French name for, 139 
■ — sauce for, 105 

— to boil, 104 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
Turnips, au gratin, 347 

— a la poulette, 348 

— glazed, 347 

— mashed, 348 

— puree of, 347 
Turnip-tops, 315 



T TTENSILS, kitchen, 23 



"WEAL, chapter on, 174 
— broth, 453 

— cream of, 182 

— cutlets, 177 



YEA 

Veal, fillet of, 174 

— fricandeau of, 175 

— galantine of, 186 

— jellied, 186 

— killing of, 14 

— loin of, 1 74 

— marble, 187 

— scallop, 179 

— steak, 176 

— tendrons of, 178 

— time for roasting, 59 
Vegetables, chapter on, 309 

— curried, 350 

— for purees, 92 

— for soup, 73 

— washing, 312 
Vegetable marrow, 326 

— au gratin, 326 

— a la Provencale, 326 
Venison, haunch of, 223 

— hashed, 224 

— neck of, 224 

— pasty, 224 
Vinegar, 270 
Vol-au- vent of oyster, 130 



WAGES, 46 

Water souche, 118 
Whelks, season for, 142 
Whitebait, 115 

— French name for, 139 

— size of, 138 
Whiting, fillets of, a la Orly, 

114 

— French name for, 139 

— quenelles of, 113 

— sauce for, 114 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
White wine whey, 458 
Widgeon, 234 

Wine, 9 
Woodcock, 234 



Y 



EAST, for bread, 434 
Yorkshire pudding, 304 



Spottiswoode &^ Co., Ft inters. New sttret Sqicare, London, 



POPULAE WOEKS. 



The LIFE and LETTERS of LORD MACAULAY. By his 

Nephew, Gr. Otto Tretelyan, M.P. 

PoPTTLAR Edition, 1 vol. crown 8vo. 65. 
Cabinet Edition, 2 vols, crown 8vo. 125, 

The HISTORY of ENGLAND from the Accession of James the 
Second. By Lord Macaulay. Student's Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 
price 12s, 

LORD MACAULAY'S CRITICAL and HISTORICAL ESSAYS. 

Student's Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. Cheaper Edition, authorised and 
complete, Zs. 6d. 

SELECTIONS from the WRITINGS of LORD MACAULAY. 

Edited by George Otto Trevelyan, M.P. Crown Svo. 65. 

CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY of ENGLAND SINCE the 

ACCESSION of GEORGE III. By Sir T. Erskine May, K.C.B. 
Sixth Edition. 3 vols, crown Svo. 18s. 

HISTORY of ENGLAND from the Fall of Wolsey to the Defeat 
of the Spanish Armada. By James Anthony Froude, M.A. Popular 
Edition. 12 vols, crown Svo. 42-s. 

SHORT STUDIES on GREAT SUBJECTS. By James Anthony 
Frotjde, M.A. 3 vols, crown Svo. IS5. 

HISTORY of CIVILISATION in England and France, Spain and 
Scotland. By Henry Thomas Buckle. 3 vols, crown Svo. 245. 

BOWDLER'S FAMILY SHAKESPEARE. Genuine Edition, 
Large Type, with 36 Woodcuts. Medium Svo. 145. 

CONYBEARE & HOWSON'S LIFE and LETTERS of ST. PAUL. 

Student's Edition, with 46 Illustrations and Maps. Crown Svo. 7s. Qd. 

CABINET EDITION of STORIES and TALES by Miss 

Sewell. Re-issue in cloth extra, with gilt edges. 

Amy Herbert, 3s. 6d. 
Gertrude, 3s. 6d. 



'J he Earl's Daughter, 3s. 6d. 
Experience of Life, 3s, 6d. 
Cleve Hall, 3s. 6d. 



Ivors, 3s. 6d. 

Katharine Ashton, 35. 6d. 
Margaret Percival, 3s. 6d. 
Laneton Parsonage, 3s. 6d. 
Ursula. 3s. 6d. 



London, LONGMANS & CO. 



POPULAR WOEKS. 



LORD MACAULAY'S LAYS of ANCIENT ROME ; with 
IVRY and the ARMADA. Shilling Edition now ready. Fcp. 8vo. 
price I J. sewed, Is. 6d. cloth, or 2^. Qd. cloth extra with gilt edges. 

LORD IVFACAULAY'S LAYS of ANCIENT ROME ; with 
IVRY and the ARMADA. With 41 Woodcuts from Drawings by 
J. R. Weguelin. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
An Edition in 16mo. with Vignette, 3.s. 6d. 

The EARLY HISTORY of CHARLES JAMES FOX. By 
Gkorge Otto Trevklyan, M.P. Cabinet Edition, being the Fourth. 
Crown 8vo. 6s. 

CAESAR; a Sketch. By James Anthony Froude, M.A. formerly 
Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford. With Portrait and Map. Svo. 165. 

LIFE of the DUKE of WELLINGTON. By the Rev. G. R. Gleig, 
M.A. Crown Svo. with Portrait, 65. cloth extra. 

MEMOIRS of SIR HENRY HAVELOCK, K.C.B. By John 
Clark Marshman. Crown Svo. with Portrait, 35. 6d. 

TRENCH'S REALITIES of IRISH LIFE. Crown Svo. price 
25. 6d. boards, or 35. 6J. cloth. 

WHISPERS from FAIRYLAND. By the Ridit Hon. Lord 
Bkabouhne. With 9 Illustrations. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d. 

HIGGLEDY-PIGGLEDY. By the Right Hon. Lord Braijourne. 
With Nine Illustrations. Crown Svo, 35. 6a. 

The WIT and WISDOM of the REV. SYDNEY SMITH. 

Crown Svo. 35. 6d. 

The WIT and WISDOM of the EARL of BEACONSFIELD, 
collected from his Writings and Speeches. Crown Svo. 6s. 

LORD BEACONSFIELD'S NOVELS and TALES. Price 2.<?. 

each in boards, 25. 6d. each cloth ; or the Set of Eleven Volumes, in 
cloth extra, with gilt edges, 335. 

LoTHAlR, 25. VeNETIA, 25. 

EnDYMION, 2s. Al.ROY, &C. 25. 

C(»NINaSBY, 25. CoNTARlNl Fl.KMINO, &C. 25. 

Sybil, 25. Hknkietta Temple, 25. 

Tancred, 25. Thk Young Duke, &c. 25. 

Vivian Grey, 25. 

London, LONGMANS & CO. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 

, iiiiiiiiiii 

3 9999 05987 674 6 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



00hlif{V 



"\ 



COOKERY 



AND 



HOUSEKEEPING 



LOSIION : PItlXTBD BY 

SPOTTI8WOODK AXD CO,, NKW-RTRRRT RQUARK 

AXD PABLlAJIKKT 8TBHKT 




^■^ 



/ I 



LOS DON : ntlKTBD BY 
UPOTTWWOOnK A5D CO., NRW-STRKKT BQUAUK 
AJID PABLlAMRST BTBBKT 



COOKERY 



AND 



HOUSEKEEPING 



A MA.XUAL OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY FOR 
LARGE AND SMALL FAMILIES 



BY 



MRS HENRY REEVE 



WITH EIGHT COLOURED ILLUSTRATIONS AND 
NUMEROUS WOODCUTS 



. W 'F«2 



/ 



LONDON 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

1882 

All rights reseri'fd 

2L9. I. 2L1. 



PREFACE. 



A FEW WORDS are required to explain the publication 
of this work. The writer has for many years given 
her attention to those branches of domestic economy 
which deal with the food of households on a moderate 
scale, where importance is attached to good cookery 
and to great variety of dishes. It was suggested 
that the (experience she had acquired might be of 
use to others ; she therefore offers this book to the 
public. 

It is a compilation, the result of practical expe- 
rience both in the choice of recipes and in the selec- 
tion of menus. 

Hints have been taken from many sources, recipes 
froip many books ; the recipes have been revised and 
varied so as to adapt them to fastidious palates and 
to small households ; the hints have been enlarged so 
as to give the principles on which dinners should be 
composed. 

The dishes described are for the most part within 
the reach of moderate means ; the menus contain 



vi PREFACE. 

some elaborate dinners suited to great houses, and 
require a first-class cook. 

Some of the, chapters are fuller than others ; that 
on Fish contains illustrations which, it is hoped, will 
be found useful and novel. 

Great pains have been taken with the chapters on 
Vegetables and Salads, and various maigre dishes 
are given, with a view to the tastes and requirements 
of a largely increasing class. 

Some of the recipes will be useful only in towns, 
others only in the country. It is hoped that the 
greater portion of them and the early chapters will 
give help not only in English households, but in 
those of the United States and in our colonies. 

The writer has been assisted by the kindness of 
some friends whose experience of the cookery of 
other countries, and whose ' critical taste, have made 
their contributions very valuable, and by others 
whose knowledge of small households enables them 
to place at her disposal their dishes and dietaries. 
To these friends she tenders her best thanks. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Introductory i 

II. On the Art of giving Dinners ... 3 

III. Filling the Larder 13 

IV. Kitchen, Larder, and Scullery ... 19 
V. Kitchen Utensils 23 

VI. Dishing up . . 28 

VII. Serving the Dinner and Waiting . . . 31 

VIII. The Dinner Table 35 

IX. Expenditure 45 

X. Defects in English Cookery .... 52 

XI. Dress of the Cook 56 

XII. The Chief Operations of Cookery. . 58 

Xin. Soups 70 

XIV. Fish loi 

XV. Beef 144 

XVI. Mutton and Lamb 157 

XVII. Veai 174 

a 



viii CONTENTS, 

CHAPTER PAGE" 

XVIII. Pork .190 

XIX. Poultry 198 

XX. Game , . 222 

XXI. Various Savoury Dishes 239 

XXII, Savoury Dishes without Meat , , . 249 

XXIII. Sauces 269 

XXIV. Garnishes and Accessories .... 293 
XXV. Vegetables , . 309 

XXVI. Salads 35 ^ 

XXVII. Sweet Dishes and Sauces ..... 359 

XXVIII. Preserves 412 

XXIX. Ices. . . 422 

XXX. Bread and Cakes 433 

XXXI. Cookery for Invalids 450 

XXXII. Menus . . .460 

XXXIII. Homely Bills of Fare. 505 




ILLUSTRATIONS. 



-•0»" 



PLATES. 

1. SALMON, COMMON TROUT, SEA TROUT, GRAYLING, 

CARP Frontispiece 

II. TURBOT, BRILL, PLAICE To face p, IO4 

III. SKATE, SOLE, FLOUNDER ,, IIO 

IV. COD, POLLACK, HADDOCK, WHITING, SMELT . ,, 1 14 

V. SPRATS, HERRING, WHITEBAIT, JOHN DORY, 

GURNARD ,, 118 

VI, STURGEON, RED MULLET, GREY MULLET, PIL- 
CHARDS ,, 126 

VII. PERCH, TENCH, PIKE, CHAR, SHAD . . . „ 1 32 

VIII. MACKEREL, SEA BREAM, EEL, LAMPERN, LAM- 
PREY, CONGER EEL ,, 1 38 



WOODCUTS IN TEXT. 



•COOKING STOVE , 

CRADLE SPIT . 

SILVER BORDER . 

NOTTINGHAM JAR . 

«AUT£-PAN . 

WIRE LINING OF FRYING 

PAN .... 
WIRE BASKET FOR FRYING 
QUENELLES FOR GARNISH 

ING SOUP 
•COPPER FISH-KETTLE 
■COPPER STEWPAN 
CUTLETS UNTRIMMED AND 

TRIMMED 
MUTTON CUTLETS . 
SHAPES OF CUT VEGE 

TABLES 
KIDNEYS 

TOASTING FRAME . 
PAPER FOR CUTLETS . 
UkRDED CUTLET 



PAGE 

23 
26 

29 

59 
61 

62 
63 

74 
105 

159 

161 
162 

164 
168 
169 

173 
177 



* PAIN * OF calf's liver 

QUENELLES 

CHICKEN, CUT UP 

SHEFFIELD BAKING PAN . 

BARDED QUAILS . 

TRIVET FOR ROASTING . 

CROQUETTES 

KROMESKIS 

RAVIOLI ... 

TIMBALES 

CRoOtONS of ASPIC JELLY 

GLAZE POT . 

SHAPES OF CUT VEGETABLES 

MOULD GARNISHED WITH 

PRESERVES 
PEACHES WITH RICE . 
POLISH BABA . 
ORANGE BASKETS 
ICE MACHINE . 
MOULD A PARFAIT 
VEAL CUTLET A LA DREUX 



pa(;e 
182 
184 
199 
215 

233 

235 
242 

243 

245 
246 

300 
303 

355 

364 
373 
387 
403 
423 
432 
463 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTORY, 

There are so many cookery books in existence, from 
the MS. recipe-book of the old-fashioned country- 
house to the elaborate productions of Gogud and 
Francatelli, that the attempt to add another to the 
list may well be deemed presumptuous. The house- 
wife is already embarrassed by the ample choice, and 
also feels that the practical difficulty' does but begin 
where the cookery book ends. Which dish of all those 
she has seen described is she to attempt ? How many 
dishes must be provided for the stated number of 
guests ? What class of viands does the position, local 
and economical, of her family render suitable at the 
table? The dishes must not only be well chosen and 
well cooked, but they require to be properly served 
and brought to each guest. It is with the view of 
giving advice on these and some other points that the 
present book is written. 

B 



2 INTROD UCTOR K 

To preside over a well-ordered house, and to 
provide suitable meals for her family and household, 
are the duties of every wife, and of many women who 
are not wives. The object of this book will be to 
help women to discharge their duties by explaining 
some of the rules of housekeeping ; by giving bills of 
fare, so arranged as to suit various incomes, tastes, and 
habits ; and by furnishing recipes for cooking such 
dishes as are palatable, useful, and economical. 

It follows of necessity that our book assumes 
some previous acquaintance with the subject, on the 
part of the lady who orders, and the servant who 
cooks a dinner. The lady has had experience of her 
father's and of her friends' tables ; she must know how 
many meals are expected in the day, and whether the 
income and occupations of the husband and sons 
render it desirable for the chief meals to be dinner at 
midday with supper at night, or a luncheon followed by 
a late dinner. The cook has either been out as kitchen- 
maid, or has had some training under another servant. 
If mistress and servant are alike without experience, 
they should attend a local school of cookery. Certain 
things are learned quicker and better by example than 
by precept. It is hardly possible to teach in a book 
how to truss a bird, to lard a fricandeau, or to make 
light pastry. It is desirable that botli mistress and 
ser\'ant should attend the school of cooker}^ as there 
are some processes and details which will be best 
understood by the more refined taste of the mistress, 
and on which she can dwell afterwards in giving orders, 
whilst there arc other details which the cook seizes all 
the better for hearing them described by a lecturer. 



HOW TO GIVE DINNERS, 



CHAPTER 11. 

ON THE ART OF GIVING DINNERS. 

It may be assumed that every host and hostess who 
entertain their friends desire to give them as good a 
dinner as their means and the resources of their esta- 
blishment permit. As far as this depends on the pro- 
ficiency of the cook and the preparation of the repast, 
the subject will be treated of in other parts of this 
little volume. But there are other considerations, of 
no less importance to the success of the entertainment, 
which more immediately concern the master and 
mistress of the house, and if these are overlooked vain 
are the labours of those who cook the dinner ; the 
party is dull and the repast insipid. 

We shall venture, therefore, to offer to our readers 
a few plain remarks on the art of giving dinners, 
which are equally applicable to persons in every con- 
dition of life who are capable of giving a dinner at all. 

And first we would recommend that no one should 
attempt to offer to their friends a dinner out of keeping 
with their own position in life and their own resources. 
A judicious host will endeavour to place before them 
a dinner based on his own mode of living at its best. 
To attempt to copy or to rival the entertainments 
given by persons of larger means is in itself a piece of 

B 2 



4 HOW TO GIVE DINNERS, 

vulgarity. It perplexes the cook ; it agitates the hosts; 
and the guests soon find out that it is a lamentable 
failure. Perhaps the greatest defect of the dinners 
given by the middle classes in England is the want of 
simplicity and ease. Too much food is prepared ; too 
many dishes are offered ; the servants in attendance 
are confused ; and the meal is too protracted. The 
object of a good dinner-party is not to make a display 
of plate, china, flowers, or cookery, nor to gorge the 
party with the endless viands of a City feast, but to 
promote agreeable social intercourse and cheerful con- 
versation, and to leave on the memory of those who 
have been invited to it the impression that they have 
passed a pleasant evening. 

To accomplish this object, the first condition is a 
judicious choice of the number and fitness of the 
guests. The best number of guests for an agreeable 
party we hold to be twelve, and it should not in an 
ordinary establishment exceed fourteen. There is no 
greater mistake than to suppose that when a dinner- 
party has been arranged on that footing, one or two 
couples more can be added to it with impunity. The 
table should never, on any account, be crowded. 
Each guest should have space to sit with ease and 
comfort. The great object of the host should be to 
promote general conversation, and as long as the party 
is limited in numbers, this is not difficult, the best 
talkers naturally taking the lead in suggesting topics 
of interest. In large dinners general conversation 
becomes impossible, and you are at the mercy of the 
persons who chance to be your next neighbours. It 
is impossible to get beyond them. 



CHOICE OF GUESTS. 5 

Some givers of dinners hold that it is essential 
to pair off ail their guests, male and female, like the 
animals when they entered the ark ; but in our judg- 
ment this is a mistake. There should always be at 
least two men in excess of the number of ladies pre- 
sent. They promote conversation, and in the event 
of the failure of one of the male guests, they avoid 
embarrassment. 

In framing the invitations for a dinner-party, it is 
desirable that the host and hostess should start from 
some central point in the selection of their guests, such 
as the presence of some person of interest to whom 
they wish to pay a mark of courtesy and respect. 
The character of the principal guest gives, as it were, 
a colour to the party, and the other members of it 
should be chosen with some reference to the first in- 
vitation. It is never expedient to invite persons of 
widely different political opinions, or very dissimilar 
social position, or persons wholly unknown to each 
other, nor on the other hand persons too nearly related 
or connected either by birth or the business of life. 
The success of a dinner depends in a great degree on 
the mutual fitness of the guests, and their friendly re- 
lations. Many a dinner has been spoiled by the pre- 
sence of one discordant element. Nevertheless when 
such a misfortune does occur, good breeding on 
the part of the guests requires that they should lay 
aside their differences and endeavour to conceal from 
the master and mistress of the house that they have 
unconsciously made a mistake. Invitations to a set 
dinner-party should generally be sent out a fortnight 
beforehand. The dinner-hour amongst the upper 



6 PRECEDENCE, 

classes in London is now so universally established by 
custom at eight o'clock, that it is vain to attempt to 
secure the attendance of a party at an earlier time ; 
but it is of great importance to establish, if possible, a 
reputation for punctuality, and. not to wait a moment 
after all the ladies have arrived. 

The next step is the classification of the guests, 
which ought to be done by the lady of the house, 
when the signal of departure is given. But it is not 
unusual for the master of the house to make his 
arrangements somewhat earlier, having the names 
written down on paper. This is not done, however, 
in the best society, and should be done from memory 
viva vocCy if at all. When persons of any distmct 
social rank are present, their . precedence must be 
carefully observed. Nothing affronts people more 
than to find that their precedence is not recognised 
or understood. But it is the precedence of the 
ladies which regulates the order of the dinner. A 
commoner who takes down a lady of rank takes pre- 
cedence of a man of rank above his own. The master 
of the house, of course, takes out the lady of highest 
rank and goes first, because she has precedence of 
everyone else. The gentleman of highest rank re- 
mains to the last and hands dowTi the lady of the 
house. The intermediate couples are arranged ac- 
cording to their rank, or, if there be no question of 
rank, according to age and fitness. The two or more 
men who are unattached follow in the rear. 

This being arranged, the company take their 
places ; and on this again much of the success of a 
dinner depends. It is essential that ever>'one should 



PLACING GUESTS, 7 

be seated next to persons agreeable to himself. A 
fashion now generally prevails, even in good houses, 
of writing the names of the guests on cards, or on the 
back of the menu, at the places to be occupied by each 
of them, by which means the plan of the dinner is 
pre-arranged. As, however, the master of the house 
precedes his guests and takes his place first at table, 
it is equally effective, and more graceful, if he requests 
each couple to take a given seat as they enter the 
dining-room. In a large party the system of cards is 
unavoidable, but it occasions confusion from people in 
search of their seats, like children playing-hunt-the 
slipper. 

When the party consists of persons not previously 
known to each other, or where a stranger is present, 
half the time which ought to be devoted to eating and 
conversation is frequently spent in vain efforts to dis- 
cover the name, character, and connexions of one's 
neighbours, and sometimes one may be betrayed by 
this ignorance into making inappropriate remarks 
which are embarrassing to both parties. This should 
as far as possible be avoided by a timely explanatory 
remark from the host, which puts the guests at their 
ease by making them better known to one another, 
and gives, as it were, the cue to conversation. 

The shape, size, and arrangement of the dinner- 
table are not matters of indifference. For a party not 
exceeding twelve a round table has some advantages, 
especially if the dining-room is broad or square. But 
a very large round table is a mistake, as it is im- 
possible to talk across it and it is difficult to cover so 
large a space with appropriate decorations. As no 



8 SEATS AT TABLE. 

dishes ^re now placed on the table, a narrow table 
suffices, and it brings the guests on both sides of it 
into closer contact It is highly undesirable to block 
up the centre of the table with huge ornaments, 
whether of plate, flowers, candelabra or other de- 
corations, because they intercept the conversation of 
the guests, which is ever to be considered the primary 
object For this reason a hanging lamp, suspended 
over the table, is preferable to lamps or lustres placed 
upon the table ; and the light is more agreeable to 
the eye. 

If the table is a long one, the master and mis- 
tress of the house may sit either at the top and 
bottom of it, or, as is now very usual, in the middle 
at the sides. The former practice has this incon- 
venience, that the most important guests are sepa- 
rated from each other by the whole length of the 
table, and consequently cannot converse during the 
meal at all. A good story told or a good point 
made at one end sets the other end wondering what 
the other pole of the dinner is laughing at The 
space between the two ends is occupied by guests of 
minor mark, who are non-conductors of the electricity 
of society. When, on the contrary, the master and 
mistress of the house are seated in the middle of the 
table at the sides, the principal guests are gathered 
round a common centre, conversation may be more 
easily conducted across the board, and it radiates to 
the extremities. 

Having seated our guests round the table, we will 
leave them to entertain themselves there ; it is their 
business to contribute to the pleasure and gaiety 



WINES. 9 

of the dinner. We will only add that the master 
of the house should keep a ready eye and an open 
ear on the flow of conversation ; he should take care 
that each guest is made acquainted with the person 
next to whom he is seated ; and if the conversation 
flags or seems to take an unpleasant turn he can 
easily revive or divert it by a question or a remark 
flung across the table. 

It may be worth while here to add a few words on 
the service of the wines which are handed during the 
dinner, as it is no longer the custom in England to 
place any wine on the table during dinner. After the 
soup, Sherry or Sherry and Madeira are produced, 
and most people take one glass. After the fish, the 
white wines of the Garonne or the Rhine, Sauterne or 
Hock (either of them, but never both), are served. 
Champagne should not make its appearance till after 
the first entr^Cy and light claret should be offered at 
the same time, as so many persons now make claret 
their chief beverage. Later in the dinner claret of a 
finer growth may be introduced. So little wine is now 
drunk after dinner, that it is a mistake to reserve all 
the best wines for the dessert, when they are very 
often scarcely consumed. At that stage a glass or two 
of old Port wine or brown Sherry, as a vin de dessert^ 
are commonly preferred, but the claret decanters should 
circulate two or three times round the table after the 
ladies leave the room. The interval which divides the 
party should not exceed ten or fifteen minutes. Coffee 
is served in the dining-room, and with that ceremony 
the dinner ends. In some of the best houses in 
lx)ndon, cigarettes are now handed round with the 



lo CHANGE OF FASHIONS. 

coffee, which slightly prolongs the separation of the 
party, though not so long as the fatal practice of re- 
tiring to th^fumoir, which is now almost universal in 
Paris ; but although this custom of mitigated smoking 
after dinner is sanctioned by very high examples, it is 
more honoured in the breach than in the observance, 
and it is scarcely consistent with the attention due to 
the fairer portion of society. 

About forty years ago a little work on the art of 
giving dinners was published by Mr. Walker, the 
author of * The Original,* which acquired considerable 
celebrity and some authority, and has even been re- 
published in our own times. But nothing can more 
clearly demonstrate the entire change of the fashions 
which preside over the dinner-table than a perusal of 
Mr. Walker's commentary on them. He recommends 
the utmost simplicity, and would invite his friends to 
dine off a slice of salmon and a woodcock. Modem 
dinners are remarkable for their extreme variety. 
The classic saddle of mutton and boiled chickens, 
which used to make their invariable appearance at the 
two ends of the board, to be carved by the host and 
hostess, are as extinct as the roast goose of the last 
century. In place of an elaborate display of corner 
dishes, some of them of an architectural character, we 
have ornaments and flowers. A menu or programme 
of the dinner ought to be placed within reach of 
each guest. In the houses of the wealthy these are 
commonly printed, sometimes with great elegance. 
In small houses a white slate or porcelain slab sup- 
plies their place. But it is essential that the guest 
should know what he has to expect, and how to re- 



VARIETY OF FOOD. ii 

gulate his choice. Much is to be said {pace Mr. 
Walker) in defence of the variety of modern cookery. 
We are convinced that it is far more wholesome, as 
well as more agreeable, to partake of several dishes of 
a different composition, than to dine off a solid slice 
of beef or mutton, provided the golden rule be ob- 
served, never to eat too much of any one of tftem, A 
very small portion of each dish is enough, and it is 
hardly necessary to add that no one but an alderman 
ever repeats his allowance and asks for a second 
helping. Une fois de chaque plat is said to be the 
maxim of a great French authority, and, provided the 
entrees and the entremets do not exceed two of each 
class, which is quite enough, we do not think it a bad 
one. A good deal of French cookery has now been 
introduced even into English middle-class households. 
We hope this little volume may tend to increase the 
use of it, for dishes cooked in the French fashion are 
generally light and digestible, equally good for the 
palate and the stomach. But it should be remembered 
that a well-cooked dish is complete in itself. Its 
character is destroyed by the peculiar British habit 
of accumulating vegetables, sauces, and miscellaneous 
additions upon the same plate to be eaten at the same 
time. The various parts of a dinner ought to be 
served in succession and not eaten together or pro- 
miscuously. 

In justice to the givers of the dinners and the cook, 
each guest should know what he is eating — always 
moderately, the more moderately the better — but not 
without discernment. The best result of a well- 
managed dinner is that the guests should rise from 



12 IMPORTANCE OF AIR, 

it without lassitude, and with a slight remnant of 
appetite. 

To accomplish this, one more requisite is necessary, 
which wc had almost forgotten, but we will place it at 
the end of these remarks, because it is the most essen- 
tial of all. The dining-room must be well ventilated, 
the guests must have not only meats and drinks, but 
air. The company present, the servants, the lights, 
consume a vast amount of oxygen, and the atmo- 
sphere is vitiated by the strong odour of the dishes and 
sauces as they are brought into the room. Many a 
time have we seen a promising party die off into dul- 
ness and silence under the influence of these dele- 
terious gases, and, if the spirit of the party is to be 
kept alive, fresh air is more indispensable to it than 
champagne. 



THE LARDER, 13 



CHAPTER III. 

FILLING THE LARDER. 

To provision the larder is of course the first duty of 
the housewife, and it requires foresight and judgment. 
In towns the wants of a family may be easily supplied 
from the respective tradesmen ; in the country the 
larder is more dependent on circumstances, and some of 
the following remarks are only applicable to country 
life. It must be borne in mind that there are but five 
kinds of butcher's meat, and that these varieties are 
more or less in season at different periods of the year. 

It is important to ascertain how often beef is killed, 
and to give such orders as will secure the joint or steak 
being hung till tender, and the stock meat being sent 
before the gravy is dried up by hanging. The silver 
side and round which are to be salted must hang a 
shorter time than the joints intended for roasting, but 
they must be hung a certain time. 

Mutton is killed more frequently than beef, and in 
giving orders for mutton the attention must be directed 
to saddles, legs, &c., being hung long enough to be 
tender, and to necks of mutton being supplied when 
newly killed, so that the scrag ends may be used at 
once for the stock pot. 



14 BUTCHER'S MEAT, 

Veal is killed frequently in the spring, barely 
once a week at some seasons of the year. Sweet- 
breads and particular joints must be ordered long in 
advance. 

Lamb when in season can be substituted for mut- 
ton : it is always higher in price. 

Pork is not always popular either with masters or 
servants. A roast loin of pork with apple sauce, or a 
boiled leg-^slightly salted — with pease-pudding, are, 
however, excellent dishes when the pork is of good 
quality. Small delicate pork cutlets, with a purde of 
tomato, make a variety as an entree. The rule as to 
season should be the same as with oysters : fresh pork 
is in season in those months which have an R in them. 

A fillet of veal, stuffed and well roasted, a loin, with 
toast served under and the kidney as its garnish, a 
fricandeau carefully braised, will find favour in some 
houses; and for entrees, such as creme de volaille, 
quenelles, grenadins, scallops, for white stock, savoury 
and sweet jelly, veal is a necessity. 

The monotony of * butcher's meat ' day after day 
is a trial to the palate ; it is well therefore that greater 
facilities of communication now enable game to be 
sold in our large towns at moderate prices, and it may 
be remarked that there is therefore another side to the 
complaint, Lord So-and-So sells all his game. The 
quality of meat in England is not what it used to be. 
Mutton at fifteen months can never be good eating. 
Beef is generally over-fat. In France neither pro- 
ducers nor consumers desire the over-fed, over-fat 
animals seen in our showyards and butchers* shops. 
What the consumer wants is good juicy meat, with no 



POULTRY AND GAME, 15 

more than the average amount of fat — all beyond that 
is useless, yet it must not the less be paid for. 

Having settled the days when it is possible to serve 
beef, other intervening days must be arranged with 
mutton as the chief dish, and poultry or game as the 
secondary dish — or with muttpn cutlets as a substan- 
tial entree, and poultry (a turkey, for instance) as the 
chief dish. 

At large dinners there is always one joint of meat, 
and poultry or game as the second roast. 

When there is one entree and one roast, if the 
entrde is of poultry the roast must be of meat, and 
vice versd. 

Poultry is to be had all the year round ; it is the 
price and quality which vary. The thrifty manager will 
not buy spring chickens or ducks at their inevitably 
high prices. She will rather provide an alternative 
dish within the compass of her means. 

Price apart, turkeys, geese, and full-grown chickens 
are to take the place of the roast joint of meat on cer- 
tain days, and on those days the entree, or one of the 
entries, should be cutlets of mutton, or slices of fillet 
of beef. 

Game and venison are the most attractive and 
valuable contributions to the larder and to the dinner- 
table ; but those who possess * shootings ' often have 
too much of a good thing, and the palate wearies, the 
digestion suffers from *toujours perdrix,' venison soup, 
pasty, hash, or haunch, hare whether roast or jugged, 
roast grouse fourteen days running, or pheasant for the 
same time, the only variety being that of ' tough ' or 
* tainted.' 



i6 ROTATION OF SUPPLIES. 

The young housekeeper in remote parts of the 
country must not only acquire the art of ordering 
dinner, but must also learn to take advantage of such 
exceptional delicacies as circumstances place within 
her reach. There may be five-year-old mutton from 
the hillside, and a larder in which it can be kept for 
the three weeks necessary to secure perfection ; there 
may be trout fresh from loch or stream in perplexing 
superabundance, or oysters only obtainable at neap 
and spring tide yet welcome every day, or crabs and 
crayfish small in size yet delicious when made into 
miniature parton pies. 

There will also be difficulties to overcome, as 
when no fish is obtainable and maigre dishes must 
be served. We will not attempt to give instances 
here, but rather refer our reader to the various sub- 
stitutions and combinations which will be pointed out 
in the chapters on menus and vegetables. 

A good manager must calculate beforehand what 
the requirements of her table will be for the week, in 
the dining-room, and in the servants' hall ; on what 
days there are to be guests, or extra guests if there are 
already friends staying in the house, and she must 
prepare orders for the butcher, and for the supplies of 
fish and poultry. In the country the rotation of dishes 
should be arranged with reference to the supply of 
beef The joint on one or two days, or if not the 
joint, the substantial dish, will be beef. The meat 
must have hung a certain time ; therefore having ascer- 
tained on what days beef is killed, it can be settled on 
what later day there is to be roast beef, rump steak, 
&c., and it is known on what di^cy fresh stock-beef is 
to be had. 



VEGETABLES, CREAM, EGGS, 17 

In the country forethought and ingenuity are re- 
quired to keep the larder supph'ed with materials ; to 
eke out butcher's meat, perhaps procurable only once 
a week, by salt meat, poultry, &c.; to bespeak just such 
a supply in summer as can be consumed whilst in 
good order; to secure in winter a due number of joints 
which by hanging in the larder are known to be 
tender. Catchers as a rule will not hang meat ; it 
loses in weight, and they have to bear the risk of a 
change in the temperature, as well as the certainty of 
the loss in weight. 

Again, it requires ingenuity to make common 
vegetables take the place of the rarer kinds when the 
garden or gardener is in fault, to produce a second dish 
of fish from the remains of yesterday when the supply 
is deficient ; to provide other sweet dishes than those 
made with eggs, when the time of the year and the 
temper of the hens render the demands of the break- 
fast table those only to be met. 

And it requires firmness and forethought to get 
good butter, cream, and milk, that is, the due quantity 
of each, without extravagance or pinching, from the 
home dairy or the milkman, and to restrain within 
bounds the ardour of the cook. 

It is true that in towns where all manner of comes- 
tibles are obtainable, the forethought of the housewife 
is less severely taxed. The question of expense is here 
the important point. On that question, too, some obser- 
vations will be found. Plain English fare, that is, large 
joints simply dressed by roasting or boiling, and served 
with no other sauce than their own good gravy, pos- 
sess high merit ; but English beef and mutton are not 

c 



1 8 LARGE JOINTS. 

what they used to be. If the ox is to take his Norman 
name at eighteen months and the sheep at twelve, it 
will be absolutely necessary to impart flavour and to 
create gravy by the assistance of French recipes. 
It must, too, be borne in mind that plain English 
cookery is only suited to the best joints, and that an 
adherence to large joints implies a steadfast love of 
cold meat not always found amongst either masters 
or servants. 

It has been ascertained by experiments made in 
public institutions that a smaller quantity of food is 
consumed and a larger measure of health is secured 
when the food is varied in kind and cooked in various 
ways. And in point of economy, to provide for the 
food of a family by an ample supply of large plain 
joints tells heavily upon the butcher's bills, which may 
be judiciously reduced by the art of cooking less sub- 
stantial dishes. 



CLEANLINESS IN KITCHEN AND LARDER. 19 



CHAPTER IV. 

KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY. 

That the kitchen should be kept sweet and neat, the 
pots and pans scrupulously clean ; that the sieves, 
strainers, the chopping machine, the cutters, the 
pastry board or shelf, should be freed from all particles 
adhering after use ; that there should be a place for 
everything, and that everything should be in its place — 
these are elementary truths. 

The floor of the kitchen and scullery must be 
washed every day. The tables must be scrubbed with 
soap, soda, and water. The dresser must be dusted 
daily and washed once a week or oftener. 

The stewpans, saucepans, fish-kettles, frying and 
saut^ pans must be kept clean and bright inside and 
outside. The copper pans must be re-tinned once 
a year ; it is far better to spend a little more on re- 
tinning than to run the risk of copper-poisoning in 
the food. 

The rule shotild be that every article used by the 
cook is to be put back in its place after use as clean 
and bright as if it were new. 

The sink must be kept clear of all solid matter, 

and the tubs or buckets used in washing dishes and 

c 2 



20 STORING PROVISIONS. 

emptying away animal and vegetable scraps must be 
most carefully cleansed. 

Before washing the dishes, all the bits of broken 
meat, &c. should be sorted into separate plates, and 
the refuse only thrown into the tub or buckets for 
pigs' wash. It is easier also to clean saucepans before 
the sticky remains of food have got hard in them. 

Wooden utensils require soap, or soda and water. 
Plates and dishes that have been used are dipped in 
cold water, after being washed clean in hot water, 
then wiped and put in the rack. 

When poultry are drawn and fish cleaned on the 
premises, special arrangements are necessary to dis- 
pose of the entrails, &c. in the speediest way. The 
game larder requires the greatest attention, as game is 
brought in already tainted by the mode of killing and 
carrying in hot or muggy weather. 

The best thing to do with a game larder is to lay 
broken charcoal in a long narrow basket (such as 
would fit a window sill) on the floor. Or to build a 
little sloping drain for holding charcoal. If there are 
many hares in the larder, this precaution is essential 
At the end of a week the charcoal must be changed 
and burnt in the kitchen, where it is of the greatest 
use. It has absorbed all the impurities of the game 
larder, but in burning it disposes of them. 

As the ordering and storing of provisions must 
precede the cooking them, it is desirable to consider 
what space is set apart for * keeping ' meat and 
perishable provisions, and for the storing of groceries. 

The larder must be cool and lofty ; the temperature 
should never rise above 50° Fahrenheit in sum- 



CONSTRUCTION OF LARDERS, 21 

mer, or fall below 38° in winter. The shelves should 
be of slate, and the ^walls lined with white glazed 
tiles. The windows must be arranged to secure ven- 
tilation, and to exclude flies. There must be outside 
blinds, or shutters, and the aspect should be north. 
The size of the larder is in proportion to that of 
the house and household, and it is also necessary to 
take into consideration whether the meat is supplied 
by the butcher in comparatively small quantity, or 
from the home farm in large quantity. In towns, as 
the supply of meat is almost always derived from the 
butcher, a large larder is not required, but space for 
storage of some quantity of meat is necessary, as there 
are Sundays and holidays when the butcher does 
not send, and it is quite as wasteful to buy meat 
in very small quantities, as it is to cook it in very 
large quantities. Poultry can be kept in the meat 
larder. Game should be kept in a separate place. In 
large houses there should be a fish larder with a 
slanting slate shelf and a tap of water. 

It sometimes happens that the conditions which 
will produce an equable temperature are to be found 
underground, in a cellar or an outhouse : a meat safe 
with lock and key will be useful in such cases. 

There must be a larder for cooked meats and for 
stock, which should never be placed in the meat 
larder. It would be well to have another larder for 
meat in salt, for bacon, and hams. But in too many 
houses there is but one larder for everything. 

Whether there are many larders, or only one, 
the most scrupulous cleanliness must be observed ; 
the cleanliness of precautionary measures, as well as 



22 PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 

that of washing, scrubbing, lime-washing, and paint- 
ing. 

Each different joint has its part liable to taint 
before the whole joint is tender enough to be cooked ; 
every animal and vegetable substance has its group of 
enemies ready to^deface and to disintegrate its struc- 
ture. It is necessary to combat these enemies by 
many means. Sometimes to remove portions of the 
meat, to wipe the surface, to dry by the application of 
flour and pepper, to place powdered charcoal inside 
poultT}", to parboil or to half roast in very mu^y 
weather. But always to keep every nook and comer 
and cranny free from dust, germs, or taint ; which, as 
dust^ germs, and taint are being produced every day, 
requires unceasing vigilance, and it is imperative al- 
ways to be on guard against smells and taints from 
drains and utensils. 

Carbolic acid in the proportion of half a pint to a 
bucketful of cold water is useful, and it is well four 
times a year to wash the tiled walls, slate, slabs, and 
floor with it. 



KITCHEN UTENSILS. 



CHAPTER V. 
KITCHEN UTENSILS. 

The lists here given are on a very moderate scale, 
suitable to small families ; more fish-kettles and stock- 
pots, saut^ pans and saucepans can easily be added. 




Moulds of varied form and shape in tin and copper 
are to be seen in every ironmonger's shop, and cooks 



24 KITCHEN UTENSILS, 

are too apt to ask for new shapes, and to think more 
of the form in which a jelly or a cream is served than 
of the clearness of the jelly and the flavour of the 
cream. But there should be moulds to hold different 
quantities, quarts and pints, and of course when double 
dishes are served there must be double sets of moulds. 
The best grate or hot-plate for cooking purposes has 
yet to be devised. The old-fashioned open range 
roasts admirably, but it does everything else very 
badly. A hot-plate, or gas rings, or charcoal fires in 
a hot-plate must exist in every kitchen where there is 
to be varied cookery. There must be a boiler for hot 
water and a baking oven. In France a combination 
of hot-plate, oven, boiler and open fire is to be seen 
in the kitchen of all the hotels, presided over in 
general by the * Host,' who is both landlord and cook, 
and therefore a judge of the amount of fuel it con- 
sumes as well as of the ordinary advantages it offers. . 
This hot-plate is never imbedded in masonry, and is 
always so placed that the light falls on it, a very im- 
portant point in frying. 

List of Kitchen Utensils. No. I. 

Pestle and mortar ; 2 baking sheets ; 6 dish covers ; 
freezing machine ; 2 dessert ice moulds ; i ice pudding 
mould ; i spice box ; turbot kettle ; 2 fish kettles ; 
dripping pan and ladle ; 2 preserving pans ; 4 gravy 
strainers ; 2 egg whisks ; 2 frying baskets ; i sala- 
mander, bain-marie pan, jelly bag and stand, season- 
ing box, omelette pan, cutlet pan ; 3 cook's knives ; 
I pallet knife ; i large kitchen fork ; 6 copper stew- 



KITCHEN UTENSILS. 25 

pans; stock-pot; 12 enamelled saucepans; i boiler; 

1 braizing-pan ; 3 frying-pans ; i colander ; 6 yorkshire 
pudding tins ; 6 copper moulds ; 6 tin moulds ; 4 
border moulds ; 3larding needles ; 2 trussing needles ; 

2 sets of skewers ; i saw ; i chopper ; i cutlet bat, 
pasteboard, rolling-pin, flour tub, weights and scales, 
mincing knife ; 2 wire sieves ; 2 hair sieves ; 2 tamis 
bats; 2 tamis cloths; 12 wooden spoons; 6 iron 
spoons ; i box of French cutters ; i box of paste 
cutters ; 2 paste brushes ; i biscuit pricker ; 12 patty 
pans ; 2 tea kettles, toasting fork, gridiron ; 2 wash- 
ing-up tubs ; 2 wooden pails ; i zinc pail. 



List of Kitchen Utensils. No. IL 

I boiler ; i 4-gallon iron saucepan ; i 2-gallon iron 
saucepan ; i tin egg saucepan ; i small stewpan 
(iron) ; i three-gallon saucepan (iron) ; i quart 
enamelled saucepan ; i pint enamelled saucepan ; 
I 3-quart iron kettle ; i pint tin kettle ; i large tin 
colander ; i iron dripping pan ; i tin yorkshire 
pudding pan ; i 2 -quart milk can with cover ; 4 iron 
spoons ; 12 wooden spoons ; i tin flour dredger ; i tin 
pepper dredger ; i frying-pan ; i nutmeg grater ; i 
spice box ; 2 trivets to hang in front of fire ; i chop- 
ping board ; i chopper ; i hatchet (for breaking bones) ; 
I thick oak board about 1 2 inches square for cutting 
up meat ; i wooden flour box ; i wooden salt box ; 
I egg basket ; i wire salad basket ; i hair sieve ; 4 
pudding basins, various sizes ; 2 pie dishes ; i china 
pastry basin ; 2 moulds ; i vegetable pan ; i earthen- 
ware bread pan with cover ; i bain-marie pan ; 



26 KITCHEN UTENSILS. 

6 copper stewpans, in sizes i J pints to 5 quarts ; 
3 iron stewpans, in sizes ; i iron digester pot, 3 
gallons ; i copper saut^ pan ; i copper sugar boiler ; 
I copper preserving pan ; 2 block-tin jelly moulds ; 
I block-tin cake mould ; i block-tin raised pie 
mould ; i wrought-iron omelette pan ; i best tin 
dripping pan ; i cradle spit ; i iron stand for 



* 




CRADLE SPIT. 



dripping-pan ; i basting ladle ; i oval iron boiling 
pot ; I wooden meat screen lined with tin ; i best 
brass bottle jack ; i cutlet bat ; i meat saw ; i meat 
chopper ; i set poultry skewers ; i set steel meat 
skewers ; 2 cook's knives, in sizes ; i root knife ; i 
dishing-up fork ; i set larding needles ; i toasting 
fork ; I fluted bar gridiron ; i hanging gridiron ; 
I frying-pan ; 6 iron saucepans, in sizes ; i large 
iron saucepan with steamer ; 2 enamelled saucepans 
with lips ; i box vegetable cutter ; i fish slice ; i egg 
slice ; i iron tea kettle ; i wire frying basket ; i tin 
colander ;* 2 best tin fish-kettles, in sizes ; 2 best tin 
baking sheets ; i pair paste nippers ; i box plain 
round cutters ; i box fluted cutters ; i bread grater ; 
I paste jagger ; a salamander ; 6 iron spoons ; 2 
gravy spoons ; 2 vegetable scoops ; a girdle ; i tin 
funnel ; 2 block-tin gravy strainers ; i dozen tartlette 
pans ; i dozen mince-pie pans ; 6 dariole moulds ; i 
Qgg whisk ; l marble mortar ; i hardwood pestle ; 
3 hair sieves ; i weighing machine and set of weights 



REFRIGERA TORS, 27 

to weigh 14 lbs. ; 6 tinned meat hooks ; 2 tamis 
cloths ; 2 corkscrews ; i jelly bag and stand ; i wash- 
hand bowl ; 2 cinder shovels ; i box coffee mill ; a 
mincing machine ; paste board and rolling pin. 

A refrigerator is a great help during the summer 
months in preserving many of the necessary articles 
of food ; and without ice it is difficult to make puff 
paste, and to turn out moulds of jelly, &c. in very hot 
weather. The cost of a refrigerator ranges from 3/. to 
1 5/. and upwards. It is a miscalculation to purchase 
one which is not large enough to hold a suitable 
quantity of ice and the various articles of food which 
have to be * kept.' 

Care must always be taken to prevent the odour 
of one edible from being imparted to another, when 
placed in the refrigerator. 



2S DISHING UP, 



CHAPTER VI. 

DISHING UP. 

Food must not only be well and suitably cooked, but 
it must be sent to table neatly and, if possible, elegantly 
arranged. Joints are to be placed on dishes deep 
enough to hold some gravy, large enough to admit 
of being carved without spilling the gravy, but not of 
disproportiona^Je size. The fish dish should be long 
and narrow for salmon and similarly shaped fish, broad 
for turbot and dories : there should be drainers for each 
size dish. Entries require care and neatness in 
arranging, and also, it may be observed, in carrying 
from the kitchen to thedining-room, so that the cook's 
care may not be frustrated by the footman's careless- 
ness. Entrees which consist of small pieces of meat, 
&c., must be placed symmetrically in the dish. 
Here the lady can render real service to an inex- 
perienced cook, by preparing a model dish either with 
pieces of bread, or cold cutlets, and with the proper 
quantity of garnish and sauce, when both mistress and 
servant are at leisure. 

The sauce must surround, but not submerge, the 
entree : it is poured from a gravy-cup with a spout, and 
the edge of the dish must be free from drops or 
splashes. If the cutlets after being dressed in a circle 



SIZE AND SHAPE OF DISHES, 29 

are to have a garnish in the centre, that must be heaped 
up and not strewn carelessly ; there must be enough 
and not too much of it. If the cutlets are to be placed 
on a border of mashed potatoes, as is done to prevent 
their shifting, it must be firm so as not to wash away 
with the gravy and make a sort of white mud. Small 
silver or plated hoops are now sold, which are of use 
in keeping the contents of the dish in the proper place. 




SILVER BORDER, 



All those entries which consist of large timbales 
must be sent up on dishes of a similar shape to the 
timbale — that is, a round mould on a round dish, an 
oval mould on an oval dish ; therefore in buying moulds 
it is necessary to adhere to the shapes of the dishes, 
china or silver, in which they are to be sent up. What 
is called a hash dish, i.e. a deep dish, either oval or 
round,.isbest not only for hashes, but for jugged hare 
(* civet de lifevre '), Irish stew, chicken and rice (* polio 
con arroz '), and those preparations of which the parts 
do not admit of being symmetrically arranged. It is 
desirable to have lining dishes either of metal or china 
(to bear oven -heat) which fit into the dishes sent to 



30 CHOICE OF DISHES, 

table, so that all food prepared ' au gratin ' can come 
to table in the dish in which it has been cooked. The 
cook should be told beforehand which china, silver, or 
glass dishes she is to use, and a silver dish must not 
first undergo a hasty hot-water bath, and then receive 
a mould of jelly. 



SERVING THE DINNER, 31 



CHAPTER VII. 

SERVING THE DINNER AND WAITING. 

In ordering a dinner, it is necessary to consider how 
many dishes the staff in the kitchen can prepare so as to 
send them up hot, and how many the staff in the dining- 
room can hand round without protracting the meal 
and wearying the guests. It is sometimes expedient 
to have one or two cold dishes which the cook can 
prepare beforehand, to be served while she is most busy 
with the next hot dish ; and it may also be expedient 
to select dishes which do not require carving, so as to 
relieve the labours of the butler, and to substitute a 
dish which can be handed round for one that must be 
cut up, at a certain stage of the dinner. 

The old-fashioned mode of setting a number of 
dishes on the table at the same time has been given up ; 
even when the carving is done by the host, or hostess, 
only the dish to be carved is placed on the table. If 
there is only one servant and the dish requires a sauce, 
the small tureen should be placed by the side of the 
host or hostess, so that the servant is not called on 
to hand it round, and the guest is not kept waiting. 

The simplest arrangements must in one sense 
be the rule when only one servant, male or female, 
has to wait at table ; in another sense, however, the 



32 WAITING AT TABLE, 

arrangements are less simple. That is, forethought 
must provide for all the requirements of the guests, and 
condiments must be placed on the table, not on the 
sideboard. Wine, beer, or cider — water, soda water, 
must be placed on the dinner-table, or on a side-table 
close to the host. The various little stands for pepper, 
salt, and mustard, or for sauces, bottles, &c., which can 
now be bought at moderate prices, can be so placed 
that the table need not look ugly or untidy. A grow- 
ing plant dexterously fitted in a china pot (not 
dropped halfway in), or a few flowers and green 
leaves in a low vase, or in various little glass or china 
pots which make a group, will give grace and refine- 
ment to the table. The cloth must be kept free from 
gravy stains, or a napkin spread over obnoxious spots. 

When two or more servants wait at table, the 
amount of handing round, both of meats and drinks, 
must depend on the number of guests and the style 
of dinner. 

In France, two servants, male or female, or male 
and female, will wait on a dinner-party of twelve 
guests, and a good dinner will be served hot and 
eaten agreeably within the hour. But the guests are 
trained to help each other to wine and water (with 
the exception of the higher class of wine, which is 
handed round), and they are also trained not to *ask 
for things.' Each dish is self-sufficing. 

In England, one or two sauces and several vege- 
tables are required to make a dish complete, and a 
guest who does not receive a potato with or within a 
second of his slice of mutton looks, or speaks, as an 
injured man. 



WAITING AT TABLE, 33 

For a set dinner-party one servant to three or to 
four guests is the rule. The servants or waiters must 
be accustomed to act together, and as they have a 
certain s;et of rules, if there is to be any deviation 
from the routine to which they are accustomed, a very 
clear explanation and a rehearsal will be necessary. 
The footman who hands the sauce should precede 
the man who hands the fish, and stand behind the 
guest so as to be able at once to offer the sauce, and 
it should be understood that no dish which requires 
accessories should start on its course till the ac- 
cessories are ready to accompany it. ' Why was not 
the mint sauce handed round with the lamb ? ' * Be- 
cause the cook had not sent it up.' * I shall mention 
that omission to the cook ; meanwhile you should not 
have cut up and sent round the lamb till its sauce 
was ready.' 

To make sure on this point, in writing the bill of 
fare for the butler * sauce ' in a bracket should always 
be written against any dish which requires sauce. 

Guests as well as servants have their duties : they 
should not ask for accessories out of the usual order, 
nor for exceptional drinks till the regular serving of 
wine has taken place. It is not creditable, however, 
to the butler if there are no pickles to be had with 
cold meat at luncheon, if the mustard is stale, or the 
pepper castor empty, and if the footman ignores one's 
request for cayenne pepper because he knows that 
condiment is not within reach. 

Drill is the important factor in discipline, and till 
the servants who have to act together, permanent or 
temporary men-servants and vraiters, or neat-handed 

D 



34 CARVING. 

table-maids, have been drilled to lay a table, to equip 
a sideboard, to bring up dishes without spilling the 
gravy or shifting the centre of gravity, to hand round 
the proper combinations in the proper order, guests 
will be dissatisfied and hosts humiliated. 

Carving requires a sharp knife, a firm hand, and a 
certain knowledge of anatomy. The number of help- 
ings and guests should be a previous calculation of the 
housekeeper ; but an unexpected accession of guests 
will suggest to the carver that each guest must re- 
ceive a smaller helping of fish, or that if each regular 
guest receives a whole snipe, the unforeseen guest will 
get none, and he will carve his dish in less liberal 
portions. French asparagus, though handed round 
in its dish, is generally distributed by the servant, 
three or four heads to a guest being the allowance. 
The same rule is observed in the case of forced straw- 
berries at dessert. 




THE DINNER TABLE. 35 



CHAPTER VIII. 

DECORATION AND ARRANGEMENT OF THE 

DINNER TABLE. 

The table may be round, oval, or rectangular, broad 
or narrow ; it must be capable of being enlarged, so 
as to give room for the maximum number of guests, 
and when only four persons sit at meat, its size must 
not be in excess of their requirements. Lighting 
may be the result of candles or lamps placed on 
the table, or of chandeliers and lamps suspended 
over the table ; these are points to be settled when 
the general fittings-up of the dining-room are being 
arranged, according to the tastes and habits of each 
family. 

The important point is that the equipments and 
decorations should be adapted to the size and shape 
of the table ; that the glass, china, and plate should 
be chosen with taste, and arranged with an eye to the 
general effect ; that the cut flowers, flowering or foliage 
plants should have fitting receptacles, not merely 
be * put in water ' or dropped into * cache-pots,' but 
that their disposal should show that care as well as 
cost have been at work. 

The table must be covered by a fair linen cloth 
of good design, with no marks of crease or fold, large 

D 2 



36 ORNAMENTS OF THE TABLE, 

enough to hang well over the sides of the table, not 
so large as to become entangled in the legs of the 
guests. The table napkins are to be of the same 
pattern as the cloth, and large enough to cover the 
knees and hang down a little way. 

The margin of the table is occupied by the knives 
and forks, wine-glasses, tumblers, water-bottles, salt- 
cellars, stands for broken ice in summer, and the little 
stands for pepper and mustard. Wine-glass coolers 
are now seldom used. They take up too much room. 
But there should be three glasses, for sherry, claret, 
and champagne. 

It is usual to put a roll or piece of bread in the 
napkin, which is neatly or curiously folded. The 
result of this arrangement, however, is that the 
guest takes up the napkin without noticing the pre- 
sence of the roll, which disappears under the table, 
and has to be replaced by a fresh one at an incon- 
venient moment for the service. Placing the roll, in 
front or by the side of the * couvert ' is a better plan. 

The lamps or candlesticks and the dessert dishes 
are the other necessary articles on the table. These 
may be placed in a line down the centre of the table, 
if narrow, or in two or three lines if the table is broad. 
On a circular or oval table they would be placed in a 
circle. The treatment of the parts of the table left 
free is the question now to be discussed — How many 
purely 'ornamental articles are to be placed on the 
table ? how many are at the disposal of the * table- 
f decker ? ' what will look well, of the plate and china, 
in combination with the flowers at his disposal. 

Huge pieces of plate set on the table merely for 



\ 



FLOWER DECORATIONS, 37 

show often destroy the general effect and impede 
conversation. They are better placed on a sideboard 
or on a velvet-covered dresser. • 

China figures, either to hold flowers or as works 
of art, look well, and when flowers are scarce they are 
a great assistance, as a few flowers can be then 
arranged so as to give the colour and life wanted. 

In the hot days of summer ice in the form of 
pyramids is sometimes introduced, to give coolness and 
freshness to the dinner table. The pyramid must be 
surrounded by fern leaves. Much caution as to the 
stand must be observed, as the melted water is apt to 
overflow on the table-cloth. Proper drainage must be 
provided. These pyramids have to be ordered of the 
size desired a day or two beforehand. 

In towns, flowers of every kind can be bought in 
unlimited quantity : the cost is the chief point to be 
considered. How much is to be spent on cut flowers 
or plants ? Is the sum to be spent on a few choice 
flowers, or on a large quantity of commoner flowers, 
of ferns, lycopodiums, etc. ? 

In the country a different set of difficulties has to 
be dealt with. The temper of the gardener or the 
state of the garden may suggest moderation in the 
demand for roses. The greenhouse must not be 
stripped for the dining-table, to say nothing of the 
requirements of drawing-rooms, etc. Then again, 
after a certain number of plants have lost their beauty 
by indoor life, only cut flowers, and those in small 
quantities, may be available. Leaves, grapes, berries, 
trails of ivy, may be the only possible decoration ; 
taste and skill must do the rest. 



38 DECKING THE TABLE. 

The shape, colour, and length of stem of flowers 
must be taken into account, and there should be a 
supply of shallow glass or china vessels at hand, with 
moss and leaves, to receive hollyhocks, carnations, 
roses, and other flowers which cannot be cut with 
long stems, or the next crop would be sacrificed. 
The appropriate foliage must be looked for. A skil- 
ful table-decker at a great country house used to walk 
through the grounds every day in search of new 
combinations, not being content with the conven- 
tional or convenient-to-himself supplies sent in by 
the chief gardener. 

It is desirable to cultivate variety as well as grace 
in decorating the table. The same pieces of silver 
and gold plate, of Sevres or Dresden china, the same 
pelargonium pies or gardener's bouquets day by day in 
a country house, become as wearisome to the eye as 
boiled chickens and roast saddles of mutton are to 
the palate. 

With what pleased surprise the guests see a great 
mass of colour — daffodils, or tulips, or peonies — rising 
from some brazen vessel of Eastern workmanship, 
instead of the conventional wine-cooler converted 
into a cache-pot, with a prim plant, which might 
almost as well be made of painted muslin. If on 
some days pomp or primness preside over the de- 
corations, let fancy step in now and then with some 
hitherto despised groups or contrast of flowers. 

A few illustrations of the arrangements of the 
table, and a few descriptions of some arrangements 
remarkable for taste, are here given. 



EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATIONS. 39 

An oval table for ten guests, — The dessert was 
placed in dishes taken from an old-fashioned supper 
tray service of Worcester china forming segments of 
a circle. The central bowl was heaped with fruit ; 
four silver sugar basins of oval form were placed at 
the comers at each end of the table. The whole 
space of the table left free was filled by roses, the stems 
cut quite short, so that the dishes appeared to stand 
on roses. The margin of this bed of roses was a layer 
of rose petals. The table was lighted from above. 

A round table for fourteen guests, — A group of 
foliage plants in the centre, surrounded by lycopo- 
dium and a wreath of panicles of white flowers. A 
large piece of very fine table-cloth was allowed to 
appear ; then came a circle of scarlet geranium and 
yellow calceolaria in shallow troughs, bounded by 
tiles or fenders of old Italian faience^ and divided into 
sections by dwarf china figures — the wreath con- 
tinuing to the eye all round the table, and, as it were, 
held in place by the china figures. The scarlet 
geranium was the inner circle, and on the table-cloth 
a line of green leaves was just apparent. No dessert 
on the table. 

A long table^ twenty guests, — The centre-pieces, 
candlesticks, and flower-pots were of Indian wrought 
silver. In these, foliage plants, with broad leaves 
and slender stems, were surrounded by lycopodium, 
whilst innumerable small glasses with a nearly 
full-blown rose in each formed groups or rows 
linked together by trails of foliage placed on the 
table-cloth. 



40 EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATIONS. 

A small round table. — The centre occupied by a 
very large plateau, which may be of china, or metal, 
or even of wood ; a group of fruit arranged on it, as 
seen in pictures — pine, melon, grapes, figs, resting on 
vine leaves and tendrils. A margin of troughs with 
cut flowers, and some old china interspersed. 

An oval table for eight guests, — The supply of 
flowers had failed, but a large quantity of the leaves 
and tendrils of a Virginia creeper were at hand ; straw- 
berries and cherries in profusion gave colour ; and the 
table-cloth was crossed and diapered with these leaves 
and tendrils. The effect was charming from its 
simplicity. 

In Germany decorations for name days . are made 
by arranging the cipher in white flowers on a ground 
of blue corn-flowers {Cyanus minor) y on the principle 
of carpet bedding, with corners of rosebuds or pan- 
sies embedded in moss. A tray, with shallow sides 
and many troughs fitting in, would be required for 
this, and there should be china tiles, an inch and a 
half to two inches high, as the frame : these can be 
moveable. 

An oval table for ten guests. — In the centre a 
large low bouquet of Cape jessamine, spiraea and 
maidenhair fern ; four or eight white china tubs, 
four inches square, with miniature ferns in them ; four 
low white china figures holding bonbons and dried 
fruit. The dinner and dessert service and the orna- 
ments were all of pure white Limoges chiucu 

A broad table for twelve guests. — The central 
object a well-grown indigenous fern ; on the table- 
cloth wreaths of stag's-head moss, and at intervals 



EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATIONS. 41 

bunches of heather. The wreaths were so arranged 
as to frame in the candlesticks and two large dishes, 
containing grapes and greengages. The same table 
with wreaths of club moss and bunches of mountain- 
ash berries. These decorations are hardly to be had 
out of the Highlands or the North of England. 

A long table for a large party, — A variety of silver 
ornaments interspersed with china flower pots, in 
which branches of mahonia were so arranged as to 
look like miniature trees sprinkled with snow.^ 

Long table for fourteeyi, — Lighted from above. 
Dresden china dessert dishes of different heights, and 
gold ornaments. In the centre, and occupying the 
greater part of the table, a silver gilt basket filled 
with a mass of camellias on moss, and dressed with 
sprays or single flowers of the long-stemmed winter 
violet {Czar), Bouquets of camellias beside the 
* couverts ' for all the ladies. 

Table for eight to ten, — Lighted from above. 
Centre, Dresden figure supporting a basket heaped 
with fruit and standing in a ring of violets, three inches 
wide. Two flat trays, sixteen inches by ten, filled 
completely with violets, except in their centres, where 
round low dessert dishes with fruit were sunk. At the 
four corners of the table flat circular bouquets of 
violets about two inches wide. 

Varieties of this flat decoration. — Violets with 
inner rings of yellow primroses or of scarlet geranium ; 

^ To do this, when the foliage is arranged take a fine-rosed watering 
can, and dew the whole with very weak gum water. Allow the water 
to drain off a little, then apply the finest white flour, and afterwards 
the finest sparkling salt, which must be dried before using. 



42 EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATIONS. 

also grey blue plumbago with inner rings of pink 
geranium ; or primroses with inner lines of blue 
hcpaticas. The flowers should be without leaves, 
and kept as flat and smooth as moss. 

Table for ten to twelve, — Flowers in narrow crys- 
tal trays arranged in the form of a St. Andrew's cross, 
which stood out from a circle round the foot of a 
gold cup. Branch lights and dessert dishes. The 
flowers used were the large non-scented syringa (mock 
orange) fringed with every shade of leaves, that at 
the points of the cross being dark copper-coloured 
Down through the mass of the syringa was drawn a 
sharp line of scarlet geranium. At the four comers 
of the table semicircular trays filled with the same 
flowers. 

Round table for eight. — Centre branch candlestick. 
Small rainbow-like circle round the candlestick, and 
second larger ditto just inside of the * couverts.' These 
circles were composed of, first row, purple viola ; 
second row, orange scarlet nasturtium ; third and 
fourth, yellow nasturtium and yellow and l^non 
viola carefully shaded outward to the lightest. 

Table for sixteen. — Silver ^pergne with glass 
baskets ; branch candlesticks. The glass baskets of 
the silver ^pergne and about ten or twelve small low 
glass baskets on the table were filled with the common 
field poppies, with ferns and with a fiew ears of corn. 

Table for twelve. — Gold ornaments and gold 
candlesticks. A dozen or more glasses of different 
heights dressed with bright bunches of the mountain- 
ash berries. 

Table for twelve. — Hunting season. Gold centre- 



EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATIONS, 43 

piece. Long branches of brambles drawn from the 
centre but to all the comers and the sides of the 
table. These branches were carefully selected, as not 
being too strong nor too withered, though they still 
had some red and yellow leaves. They had had a 
flat iron passed over some of the stems and leaves to 
make them manageable. 

Table for fourteen, — China ornaments and candle- 
sticks. Strip of crimson satin down the middle of 
the table bordered by feathered moss, into which at 
intervals of two inches single blooms of the white 
pheasant-eyed narcissus were laid. 

Table for ten or twelve, — Centre gold piece ; gold 
candlesticks. A dozen small old blue china flower 
pots, in rows down both sides of the table, with single 
(cut) tritomas, with their leaves in each looking like 
small pines. 

Table for twenty-four.— A pyramid of ice sur- 
rounded by wreaths of water-lilies lying flat on the 
cloth. 

To some eyes the flowers on a table should be all 
of one kind and colour ; to others a mixture of flowers 
IS agreeable. No absolute rule can be laid down ; at 
present, taste inclines to there being one or two kinds 
of flowers. Strongly scented flowers are objected to 
by many people. 

A fashion has sprung up of late years of placing a 
strip of satin down the centre of the linen cloth, so as 
to give more colour and variety to the table. The 
edge of the satin is concealed by a wreath of leaves ; 
the colour must therefore be chosen not only to con- 
trast with the white cloth, bu with the green or 



44 EXAMPLES OF TABLE DECORATION, 

brown leaves which make its fringe. Instead of 
satin, Greek lace lined in colour, or linen embroidered 
in colours, is also seen as an embellishment to the 
plain table-cloth. 

Let it always be remembered that cloths which 
will not bear washing must not on that account be 
used when soiled ; they must be replaced by new 
ones, or this mode ot^ecorating a table must not be 
attempted. 



HOUSE EXPENSES, 4S 



CHAPTER IX. 

EXPENDITURE. 

It must be borne in mind by the housewife that 
modem luxury exacts a greater number of meals, 
a larger number of hot dishes at each meal, the 
accompaniment of fruit, flowers, and highly-polished 
silver, to an extent unknown in the simple days of 
our forefathers. Five meals a day at four or five 
tables — schoolroom, dining-room, hall, steward's room 
— implies an amount of bringing up trays and of 
clearing away by the men or women servants of 
the pantry department, of cooking the food, and of 
wrashing up dishes by the servants of the kitchen and 
scullery departments, which must tax their time and 
strength severely ; and if the hours kept are late and 
irregular, must try their temper also. Breakfast and 
luncheon are * hot meals,' but they are rarely punctual 
meals. In many country houses breakfast is so late 
that preliminary breakfasts are asked for in every 
bedroom ; and five o'clock tea is on so tempting and 
ample a scale that ladies who have no appetite at 
the dinner table have a very troublesome appetite 
at midnight. Those who can afford to devote the 
necessary money to establishments in which this 



46 WAGES AND PERQUISITES. 

amount of luxury prevails, without trenching on 
other claims, have only to ascertain that there are 
servants enough for the work to be done ; that neither 
their health suffers by over-work nor their morals by 
over-leisure during the intervals when absence from 
home of the masters or other cause prevents 'company.' 



Wages and Perquisites. 

A cook's earnings are made up of wages and per- 
quisites. A good cook, or even a plain cook if good 
of her kind, is entitled to wages much larger than those 
given to other female servants, and it is for the interest 
of the employer to give ample wages. The question 
of perquisites is a different one : perquisites may be 
divided into two categories — a percentage on trades- 
men's bills, and the sale of broken meats. 

From a consideration of the first of these, it will be 
seen that it becomes the interest of the cook as well 
as of the tradesman to make those bills as high as 
possible. It would be an advantage to the employer 
and quite fair on the cook to arrange to pay her a 
sum calculated on the average outlay, in lieu of the 
percentage, and to give notice of this arrangement to 
the tradesman, who then can afford to charge * stores ' 
prices for his goods. 

The second perquisite is the sale of broken meats, 
dripping, &c. 

By this arrangement it is the cook's interest to 
treat as broken meat, and to convert into dripping, 
much sound and available provision. In the matter 
of selling, the real profit is obtained by the dripping 



COST OF FOOD. 47 

dealer, the real loss is sustained by the cook's em- 
ployer : the cook gets a sum small indeed in com- 
parison with the first cost and with the final sale of 
the article ; the purchasers of broken meats are not 
scrupulous, the cook's conscience becomes less delicate, 
and half a leg of mutton is treated as * broken meat.' 

Those who can afford to give as wages to a cook 
40/. and upwards per annum would do well to com- 
mute such perquisites into a money payment, and to 
give to the poor, through the various charitable 
agencies (whose collector would always call), the broken 
meats. 

Where the system of board wages prevails, the 
same objection as regards broken meats does not 
exist, for all that is eatable is utilised to reduce the 
cost of living to the servants and to enable them to 
save out of their board wages — an unobjectionable, 
even praiseworthy habit. 



The Cost of Eating. 

No rule as to the cost'of food per head can be laid 
down. Households differ in numbers, ages, and 
habits. In a grown-up household the average per 
head is higher than when there are many children and 
some infants, Fifteen shillings a week per head all 
round, servants and infants included, is considered in 
a cathedral town what the housekeeping weekly ex - 
penses should come to. This includes servants' beer 
and the washing of the whole family. 

The following are examples of households where 
the I5r. a week scale holds good. 



48 COST OF A HOUSEHOLD, 

No. I. — Husband, wife, two children under four 
years of age. Four maid-servants. A late dinner. 

No. 2. — Husband, wife, five children under four- 
teen. Three maid-servants. Early dinner. - 

No. 3. — Husband, wife, three or four young chil- 
dren. Three or four maid-servants. Early dinner. 

No. 4. — Husband, wife, eight or nine children under 
seventeen. Three maid-servants. Early dinner. 

These are all very modest households, where 
children are numerous and means small. Visitors 
and dinner parties are of course not included in these 
averages. An Englishwoman living at Paris, with 
several children, several servants, male and female, 
calculates sixteen shillings per head per week as the 
average expenditure. Two meals a day, preceded by 
a cup of tea or coffee and a roll or a bit of bread as 
early breakfast, are, however, the rule of masters and 
servants in France. 

For a household where a handsome table is kept, 
and there is neither stint nor excess, one pound per 
head per week may be accepted as the fair expendi- 
ture. 

The mistress of the household should know what 
she means to spend, and should let the cook or house- 
keeper know that she has to deal with an intelligent 
and fair-judging mistress. 

The * consumption books,' with columns for enter- 
ing daily items and the additional meals for guests, 
are a help to the mistress, but are not very ac- 
ceptable to a cook. The larger the establishment 



EXPENSES OF A HOUSEHOLD. 49 

• 

the greater is the necessity for some such means of 
control. 

In the calculation of how the sum spent per week 
IS to be apportioned, a minute examination must be 
made of the requirements at each meal. The practice 
of having mutton chops and cutlets at breakfast and 
luncheon, as well as at dinner, will add largely to the 
butcher's book ; yet no blame is due to the house- 
keeper for such increase. The ordering or accepting 
a menu in which all the dishes contain cream, will 
make the demands on the dairy exorbitant (to say 
nothing of the demands on the digestive system of 
the guests). The profuse use of eggs, and dishes 
composed of eggs, at breakfast, lunch, 5 o'clock 
tea, and dinner, will explain the many dozens of eggs 
per week in the henwife's book. 

Let there be a fair computation in each case — 
butter and milk and groceries, as well as the articles 
just noticed — and then, either as dictator or director, 
see that the computation is not exceeded. The sub- 
stitution of a simple inexpensive dish for a complex 
and costly one is an advantage both for the purse and 
the digestion on many occasions. 

Whilst the weekly expenditure is kept within 
fixed limits, the occasion of a * feast ' may call for 
and justify an expenditure as legitimate in its excess 
as the frugality of every day. 

The information as to the cost of living at colleges 
and clubs, with estimates varying from i/ji*. to i/. 
per week, does not throw the required light on the 
cost of eating in a household, because in the calcula- 
tions of such establishments the wages of the cook 

E 



so EXAMPLES OF EXPENDITURE, 

and of the other servants, the cost of coal and gas, 
and other items, are considered. 

The following estimates and comments are the 
result of enquiries made with a view of obtaining the 
result of individual experience in households where 
some attention is paid to the subject 

The allowance for servants per head per week is 
as follows : — 

Tea . . :J^ of a lb. 

Sugar . . . . I „ 
Butter . . . . I « 

The allowance of meat in a large household, in- 
cluding poultry, game, and bacon, is from i^ lbs. to 
2 lbs. per head per day. 

One correspondent says 'the amount of meat used 
depends on the cook ; ' another says * there is no limit 
placed on the consumption of meat, but the rule of 
the house (a great house) is plain dishes.' 

The restriction in the last instance is therefore in 
the use of eggs, cream, sauces, truffles, and the ac- 
companiments of entrees. 

Another correspondent gives her experience as 
follows : — 

In a small household in the country — family and 
guests, six persons ; servants' hall and guests there, 
six to eight ; a month's consumption was 

Eggs . . .42 dozens. 

Butter . . . .56 lbs. 
Milk per day ... 6 quarts. 
Cream for the month . 10 pints. 



HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES, 51 

The responsibility must rest, not on the cook or 
housekeeper, however, but on the employer — that is, 
the lady at the head of the house ; and either by a 
knowledge of details she may guide the extravagant 
cook, or by stem refusal to pay unreasonably high bills 
she may compel the cook to look into details and 
reduce expenditure without impoverishing the fare, 
which is the course a cook attempts in order to coerce 
her employer. 






52 DEFECTS OF ENGLISH COOKERY, 



CHAPTER X. 

SOME DEFECTS IN ENGLISH COOKERY. 

Wateriness. 

One of the most conspicuous faults in English cookery 
is the presence of water. Sometimes the soup is 
little more than hot water. The boiled fish is sent 
up surrounded by hot water. The Irish stew has lost 
all savour by reason of water added to that which 
the vegetables in it have already yielded ; and in the 
sending up of vegetables it is too apparent that the 
draining and evaporating processes have been omitted. 
Besides the objection that tepid water is not a sauce, 
there is the further objection that the water sent up 
has a disagreeable taste, and is unwholesome from the 
vegetable juices contained in it. A careful cook will 
press, squeeze, strain, drain, dry, or evaporate all 
vegetables that are cooked by boiling, and on the oc- 
casions when water is an ingredient in a dish, she will 
never exceed the quantity indicated. When broth is 
used to dilute a dish whilst it is cooking, only a small 
quantity is to be poured in at a time, and after that has 
been absorbed, in stewing, a second dose may be ad- 
ministered. The practice of adding water to the gravy 
in the dish is severely to be reprehended. The gravy 
ought to be the pure juice from the roasted joints. 



GREASJNESS. 53 

Greasiness. 

This is a fault imputed to German cookery, not 
always without ground, but it is also to be met with in 
other countries. Grease, fat, butter, and cream, are im- 
portant factors in most savoury dishes ; butter and 
cream in sweet dishes also. Where then is the mistake 
when a dish is called greasy ? In the case of soups it 
is that the stock-pot has not been skimmed, and that 
the stock has not been allowed to cool till the fat 
cakes on the top and can be removed. The same rule 
holds good with gravies and sauces. When butter 
has to be mixed in with vegetables, if the butter 
is allowed to oil, the dish becomes greasy ; the mode 
of obviating this is to work flour in with the butter, 
and to allow the vegetable and butter and flour to be 
on the fire for a short time only, and not at all on a 
fierce fire. The over-heating of fat is sure to result 
in oily, greasy dishes — this the cook can control. 
The soft, bad fat in meat, which is the result of the 
grazier's treatment of the animal, is not her fault. In 
frying, the defect of greasiness is the result either of the 
lard, butter, or oil not being of the right temperature 
when the thing to be fried is put in it, or of the neglect of 
placing each thing after frying on a wire sieve, or on 
a paper on a dish before the fire, so that the fat which 
clings round may drain off* on the sieve, or be absorbed 
by the paper placed under. 

Flavouring. 

There exists so great a difference of taste as to fla- 
vouring that it is desirable for the lady of the house 



S4 CONDIMENTS AND FLAVOURS. 

to explain to the cook what the standard of taste is to 
be on the following points : — 

Whether «^«^A pepper, curry powder, mulligatawny 
paste are to be used in the dishes of which they are 
ingredients. 

Whether vinegar and lemon juice are to be used 
sparingly or lavishly. 

Whether spices and grocers' sauces are to be used 
at all. 

Whether sugar is to be put into puddings in such 
quantities as to satisfy those who love sweet dishes of 
the sweetest, or in moderate quantities, permitting 
addition to such as wish the dish sweeter. 

If the cook says she knows her business, the answer 
must be : * You cannot know whether we prefer veiy 
highly seasoned dishes, or dishes of very delicate 
flavour ; and it is no imputation of want of skill, when 
I explain that we like clear soup without wine, and 
with very little pepper ; that creams are in my view 
best without gelatine ; or that an apple tart in which 
there were cloves would be sent untouched from my 
table.* 

Fine herbs, mint, fennel, sage, sorrel, lemon peel, 
are necessary for certain dishes ; mushrooms, truf&es, 
onions to others. The proper blending and harmo- 
nising of flavours show the skill of the cook, but it is 
also necessary that her palate should be in accord 
with that of the guests. 

In France the standard of taste is uniform, or 
nearly so, and the tradition of the kitchen may be 
trusted even where there is no chef to direct 

In England tastes differ; the tradition prefers 



FLAVOURS, 55 

flavours from the ^^^r^;' to flavours from the garden^ 
and the cook's palate can rarely be trusted. 

Whilst nothing can be truer than the remark that 
sound healthy life, whether in the animal or vegetable 
kingdom, is quite inconsistent with the habitual use 
of a highly stimulating diet, it is at the same time 
necessary to study the peculiarities of those palates 
and digestions which have to be kept in healthy order, 
to consult idiosyncrasies and to humour whims as far 
as is possible. There is neither sense nor saving in 
using that against which the stomach is set 

A remark of Dr. Brunton deserves to be quoted 
on this point : — 

* Savoury food causes the digestive juices to be 
freely secreted ; well-cooked and palatable food is 
therefore more digestible than unpalatable ; and if the 
food lack savour, a desire naturally arises to supply it 
by condiments, not always well selected or whole- 
some. 

* After a meal containing sufficient nutriment for 
the wants of the system, but very plain and simple in 
character, a craving is often felt for something more, 
although the person cannot say for what he craves. 
This may be satisfied by a little salt (on a crust of 
bread) on the tongue, though a more agreeable mode 
is to eat some dried, or ripe fresh fruit* 



56 DRESS OF THE COOK. 



CHAPTER XL 
DRESS OF THE COOK. 

The necessity for the utmost care and accuracy 
in cleaning the kitchen, the larder, and all cooking 
utensils has been dwelt upon ; but, from the same 
point of view, there remains something to be said 
about the dress of the cook herself when actually at 
work in her kitchen. 

Her dress certainly ought to be made of some 
material which admits of being washed. Flounces or 
folds that act as pockets to catch falling particles are 
to be avoided, but still more a skirt so long as to 
sweep or even to touch the floor. Why should she run 
the risk of picking up and carrying about in her train 
the first dropped cabbage leaf or chicken-claw, or of 
staining this misplaced appendage in some spilt sauce 
or oil, and of sweeping in consequence this sauce or 
oil over the rest of her kitchen floor ? 

No cook works without an apron of some sort, but 
how seldom is her apron really large enough — lai^e 
enough to secure her dress against a stain were she 
suddenly to drop her hands by her side. Or perhaps, 
though of a good size, it is not sufficiently fastened 
back, and being loose she is tempted at some emer- 
gency to wipe her hands in it. If she does so, the 



DRESS OF THE COOK, 5 

chances are she pulls it out of its place and leaves 
her dress unprotected. A better plan is to wear, 
under a small apron, a really large one which is tied 
well back over the sides. The small one is the one 
that habitually gets dirty, and which is thrown aside 
at the end of the day, whereas the larger one will 
probably keep clean for several days ; and under all 
these conditions the cotton dress of the cook ought 
not to require such constant washing as it would 
otherwise do. 

Then as to her hair. The hair of a man cook is 
shorter and more easily kept, yet he always wears a 
cap — is it not then absurd that a woman cook should 
allow her unprotected hair to be steamed by all her 
savoury pots or to be filled with flour by all her 
dredgers? She ought to wear a good-sized white 
cap, and for the sake of those for whom she cooks, let 
her dress her hair in some neat close way, so as to 
have no loose hairs or hairpins which might fall into 
the food. 



58 CHIEF OPERATIONS OF COOKERY. 



CHAPTER XII. 
THE CHIEF OPERATIONS OF COOKERY. 

Roasting. 

This operation can only take place before a good 
open fire ; the meat must be placed close to the fire 
for a few minutes, and when the outside is just * set ' 
then it must be withdrawn and allowed to roast 
slowly, care being taken to baste frequently. 

The surface of the joint being allowed to 'set* 
causes the gravy inside to retain all its qualities, and 
a free current of external air during the roasting 
renders the taste of the meat, both the fat and lean, 
sweet and wholesome. 

The received time for roasting is at the rate of 
fifteen minutes to the pound for beef and mutton, and 
seventeen to twenty minutes to the pound for pork 
and veal. 

As a well-cooked joint of meat should be full of 
its own gravy, in roasting it must at first be exposed 
to a quick fire, and in boiling it must be plunged 
into boiling water. 



BRAISING, 



59 



Time Table for Roasting at an Open Fire. 

lO lbs. of beef requires 
5 



M 



» 



6-lb. leg of mutton 

Quarter of lamb 

Leg of lamb 

4 lbs. of veal 

4 lbs. of pork 

Hare, if large 

Leveret 

Turkey 

Fowl, 

Goose, 

Duck 

Pheasant 

Partridge 

Smaller birds 



» 



» 



» 



>j 



» 



)> 



a 



j> 



j> 



>j 



M 



» 



» 



» 



» 



» 



» 



2i 


hours 


• li 


a 


• li 


» 


I 


» 


1 


» 


1 

2 


» 


2 


» 


li 


>j 


1 


» 


• li 


» 


1 


)) 


li 


» 


1 


» 


1 


» 


i 


» 



i hour to 20 minutes 



Braising. 

This operation requires a braising-pan, with its 
hollow lid to contain hot coals or hot water, and, as 
the braising-pan must not be too 
large for the piece of meat to be 
braised, it is desirable to have hollow 
lids to more than one size of stew- 
pan. 

An earthenware pot in a bain- 
marie may be used, and the oven 
instead of the hot-plate is sometimes 
utilised. Pieces of meat which contain gristle can be 




NOTTINGHAM JAR. 



6o BAKING AND SA UTt-ING. 

made digestible by braising or stewing, if the pro- 
cess is carried out over a slow fire and for the proper 
length of time — that is, upwards of tour hours — and if 
it is basted about every twenty minutes with the gravy 
which surrounds but does not cover the meat. 

To prevent the meat from burning, a round of 
buttered paper cut to the size of the stewpan may be 
placed on the top of the meat, care being taken that 
it should not drop into the gravy. Of course it must 
be lifted each time the meat is basted. 



Baking. 

The universal use of closed ranges and ovens has 
caused baked meat to supersede roast meat No care 
or contrivance will enable the process to be satis- 
factory, but it is cheap and convenient 

A brick oven would improve the taste of baked 
meat, but then again iron ovens are cheap and conve- 
nient The expedient of the double oven pan, that is, 
of placing the pan which holds the meat on another 
pan which contains some hot water, lessens the taste of 
burnt fat, and frequent basting prevents extreme dry- 
ness. The roasting oven, the movable shelf, and the 
baking pans require great care in cleaning and keep- 
ing sweet There must be a rack, on which the joint 
is placed, standing in the oven-pan. 

Sautd-ing. 

This is a modification of frying : the same pan can 
be used, but in general there is a saut^-pan kept for 



FRYING. 6i 

this purpose. The quantity of fat used is much less 
than for frying, and the object to be cooked is not 
surrounded with bread-crumbs and egg or paste. 
Mutton chops and cutlets, pork chops and cutlets, 
slices of fillet of beef, chickens cut into neat joints, 
are sauU. A good sauce can be served in a sauce- 





saut£-pan. modern saut£-pan. 

boat, or placed round them, or mattre cfhdtel butter 
can be put on each cutlet SauU-ing is a very palat- 
able and wholesome mode of cooking. 

The sauU-pdiTi should be kept in constant motion 
to prevent the cutlets, etc., from burning, a peculiar 
jerk of the hand causing the articles in the pan to 
jump, ^ sautery so that they may be equally cooked on 
all sides. 

Frying. 

The substances used for frying are butter, oil, 
lard, dripping, the fat which is skimmed off, or taken 
cold off, the stock pot. Marrow, and the fat near the 
kidneys, are also excellent ingredients of the * drip- 
ping pot,' which should be of earthenware. 

It is proper to have two or three earthenware 
pots, so as to keep separate the fats employed for 
frying fish from those used for meat and for sweet 

dishes. 

» 

Good frying fat can be kept a year without get- 
ting bad, if care is taken to clarify from time to time 



.r//////////M/iiiiiiiiimm\\\\u\\\' 

V////////////////llllllllllll\l\\\\\\\\V 



62 FR YING. 

and to remove dregs or scum. The frying-pan must 
be clean and the surface smooth, that is, the tinned 
surface if burnt or blistered must be renewed, else the 
tendency to bum is increased. A frying-pan must 
be six inches deep at least. 

A copper frying-pan is used for many dishes — that 
is, copper-tinned. An iron fryingrpan can be either 
tinned or enamelled, but the transmission of heat is 
not as good as in the copper vessel. A wire lining fits 

into the frying-pan ; in this 
the objects are placed, and 
when fried they are removed 
^••**««WWUimuuuw^ and drained in it. A light 

WIRE LINING OF FRYING- 11 i_ • /• 

PAN. golden brown, a crisp surface, 

are the characteristics of good 
frying — a burnt or sodden look shows carelessness or 
ignorance on the part of the cook. The fire must 
be clear and brisk, and it must be maintained at the 
same heat all the time. 

The moment the object fried is removed from the 
frying-pan, the pan must be removed from the fire, or 
the fat will burn. 

Fish, cutlets, croquettes, rissoles, and fritters 
require a temperature of 380° Fahr. ; chops, potatoes, 
and whitebait, 400° Fahr. 

As the cook does not test the heat by a ther- 
mometer, but by a specimen bit of bread or parsley, 
the above figures will only so far help her as to show 
that certain thi*ngs require fiercer heat than others. 
Practice and patience must be the real guides. 

If the frying-pan is six inches deep, the fat must 
be three inches deep. Let it heat slowly; and, when 



FR YING. 



63 



you think it is nearly at that point which fits it for 
frying, test it with a small bit of bread. 

It is often desirable to place the object when fried 
on blotting paper before the fire, so that all trace of 
the fat may disappear from the surface. 

As the point aimed at in frying is to have a crisp 
dry surface, it would be well never to serve sauce in 
the dish, because the under surface must be sodden 
by the sauce : this applies to everything that is egged 
or bread-crumbed ; custom moreover requires sauce 
under cutlets and vegetables in the centre ; it is there- 
fore a better arrangement to * sauter* cutlets if there is 
to be sauce, and to hand round sauce when cutlets 
are egged and bread-crumbed. Croquettes and 
rissoles are always to be served on a napkin, and do 
not require sauce. 

To clarify fat or dripping, place it in a large 
saucepan with a little water, set it on the hot-plate 
till all the fat is melted, strain through a cloth or 
hair sieve into an earthenware jar. 

Fat that has been used for frying should always 
be strained into a basin containing a little water, so 
that the sediment may fall to the bottom. 

The frying basket should never be allowed to 
touch the bottom of the 
saucepan ; and the articles 
to be fried should be ar- 
ranged so as not to touch 
each other ; otherwise where 
they touch they will be 
burnt and the covering of bread-crumbs broken. 

If the articles when fried are of too dark a colour, 




WIRE BASKET FOR FRYING. 



64 BOILING, 

the heat of the fat has been too great, or they have 
been left in too long. If they appear sodden, the fat 
has not been hot enough. 

It is expensive to fry in oil, but it is vastly supe- 
rior to frying in fat. 

Boiling. 

This is an easy mode of cooking meat and fish 
and a necessary mode of cooking many vegetables : it 
takes away savour, however, and should be restricted 
to a few joints. 

The first point is whether the meat, etc., is to be 
put on in hot or cold water. Salt beef, salt pork, salt 
fish, must be put on in cold water : so must haricots, 
rice, etc. 

Fresh fish must not only be put on in hot water, 
but in hot water with salt in it, because salt water 
boils at a higher temperature than fresh water. 

Fresh meat must be put on in hot water, a little 
salt is to be thrown in, and the saucepan is then to 
be placed in a cool part of the stove and only allowed 
to simmer. There is to be careful skimming in both 
modes of boiling. 

In selecting meat for salting always choose that 
of which the fat is firm. 



Time Table for Boiling. 

Ham . , . \ hour to each lb. 
Salt beef . . 20 minutes to each lb. 
Leg of mutton . 12 „ „ 



»» 



BROILING. 65 

Leg of pork . 12 minutes to each lb. 
Turkey . 15 ,» 

Chicken . . about an hour 
Rump-steak pudding 3^ to 4 hours 



To boil Meat when Broth and Meat are both 

to be served. 

Put the beef or mutton on in cold water and let 
it heat slowly ; a scum will rise when it comes to 
boiling point ; remove this very carefully, then cover 
the pot, keep it at a gentle simmer, from time to time 
lift the cover and skim till no more scum rises. Take 
out the meat when cooked enough, let it dry, and keep 
warm before the fire, slice thin some stale bread, put it 
in a tureen and pour the broth over. Vegetables may 
be boiled with the meat. 

Broiling. 

This is a very wholesome mode of cooking food ; it 
can be done over the fire and in front of the fire. 
Nothing is added to or taken away from meat or 
fish in the. process, and with the addition of mattre 
(thdtel butter a very appetising result is obtained. 
When broiling is done on the fire, a gridiron is used ; it 
must be heated before the chop or steak is put on it, 
and it must be close to the clear bright heat of the 
coals. The piece of meat must be turned with a pair 
of tongs (not a fork), so that no gravy may escape, 
and that neither side shall receive all the gravy. 

If the broiling is done in front of the fire, as is 

Y 



66 MAKING PASTE AND PASTRY. 

best for fish, it is simply placed on a tin which is 
placed close in front of the fire, and care must be 
taken in both modes of broiling that the meat or fish 
is not too thick for the process, and that the fire is 
not so fierce as to char or bum. 

Fish must always be split open for broiling. 

Gridirons are sometimes made double, the chop 
can be turned on the fire without its being touched, 
and in the fluted gridiron there is a trough which 
preserves the gra\y. 

Paste and Pastry. 

To make good pastry, delicacy of touch and mani- 
pulation, a light hand, a cool hand, good materials, a 
good oven, and in summer rough ice are required. 
The slab, the rollers, and all the implements must be 
faultlessly clean. The flour must be what is called 
Hungarian or American flour, the butter must have 
no buttermilk or salt in it. Butter intended for pastry 
should be washed, so as to extract the liquids and 
salt, and then wiped dry. The pastry board must be 
kept sweet and clean, and never be used for anything 
but pastry. For the finer kinds of pastry the flour 
should be dried and sifted. There are several kinds 
of paste, that used for raised pies, that used for lining 
little tin moulds, common meatpie paste, puff* paste. 
The two first kinds are not intended to *rise' or be 
elastic, the two latter are to be elastic ; the paste used 
for raised pies is not eaten ; it is made of flour, butter 
or lard ; \ lb. butter to i lb. of flour ; a little salt and hot 
water, enough to melt the butter and work up the paste. 



MAKING PASTE AND PASTRY. 67 

To model a raised pie requires the skill and taste 
of a potter, and no printed description will convey 
the necessary instruction ; if it is worth doing, it is 
worth paying for a couple of lessons. 

The paste made for timbales is made with i lb. of 
flour, ^ lb. of butter, a little salt, the yolks of two eggs, 
and half a pint of water. 

The flour is heaped on the slab, and then a hollow 
is made in the centre, into which are stirred the yolks 
of two eggs, a pinch of salt, a glass of water. The 
mixture is stirred and worked with the fingers in the 
first place : it must be firm and smooth, yet soft 
The butter is to be gradually worked in ; during this 
process the fingers must be frequently dipped in dry 
flour. When the paste has been thoroughly mixed, 
it is made into a ball and wrapped in a cloth till it is 
wanted. It is then rolled out very thin, and the 
moulds are lined with it and filled with flour (to be 
taken out) and baked. The shape of the moulds 
varies with fashion and fancy ; lozenge-shaped moulds 
which form a star when placed together look well, 
and little troughs are also a neat form for filling. 

The next kind of paste is made with | lb. of butter 
to I lb. of flour, and only one egg. 

Proceed as in the foregoing recipe with half the 
butter, continue to work the paste and to incorporate 
the rest of the butter. Let it stand a few minutes, 
flour the slab, the rolling pin, and the paste, and 
proceed to roll out the paste till it nearly comes 
a yard by a foot in size, turn it and roll again, fold 
in three, roll out again, let it rest in a cold place 
for fifteen minutes, and repeat the rolling process twice 

F 2 



68 PUFF PASTE, 

In cutting paste the knife or cutters should be 
dipped into flour or cold water. 

Puff paste is the most dainty paste made, and it 
alone can be used for vol-au-vents, patties, tartlets, and 
pastry ' fingers.' Puff pastry will rise, when properly 
made and baked, to eight times its size before baking ; 
if you cut out a piece of this paste \ an inch thick, it 
will rise to be four inches thick. The proportion of 
butter in this case will be I lb. to I lb. of flour, but 
only one egg is to be used. The butter must be 
washed and pressed so as to get rid of any butter- 
milk in it. The mode of making the puff paste is 
similar to the last recipe, but the rest should be in a 
dish covered by another dish, and some rough ice 
placed under and over. When ice cannot be had, 
the paste should be made in a cellar, or whatever miay 
be the coolest place in the house. It must be baked 
as soon as it is ready, or failurie will ensue. 

All descriptions of making pastry fail to convey 
the exact method of manipulating the paste ; it is 
one of the processes in which lessons are of most use. 
In the preceding observations the materials are given, 
and the increase in proportion of butter to flour must 
be carefully noted, according to the kind of paste 
required. 

The way to make puff paste is as follows. Having 
made the flour, egg, and water into a ball of paste 
(which should be cool, light, and elastic), roll it out 
lengthways about \ of an inch thick. Take the 
butter, previously washed and wrung in a cloth, in a 
firm flat pat, place it on the centre of the strip of 
paste, fold the two ends over it, and press the edges 



PASTRY, 69 

together so that the butter is firmly enclosed. Place 
the paste on your board with the rough edges 
towards you, and begin rolling gently from the centre 
towards the edges, both from and towards you, taking 
care not to roll the butter out Fold in three and 
roll again, then lay aside for fifteen minutes and 
repeat the folding, and rolling twice as previously 
described. The paste should be rolled altogether 
seven times. If it is properly made and really light, 
large air-bubbles will appear in the course of the 
rolling. 

The oven for all pastry, especially puff pastry, 
requires to be very hot. It is as well to test it by 
putting in a small piece of paste first. If the oven 
is at the right heat, the door should not be opened to 
look at the pastry until it is time to take it out, as 
opening the door lowers the temperature and checks 
the rising of the pastry. It is therefore very con- 
venient to have a piece of glass in the oven door, 
through which to see when the pastry is ready. 

'Pastry should not be placed too near the fire side 
of the oven, for in that case it will rise unevenly. 



70 SOUPS. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

SOUPS, 

Soup, though not yet considered in England, as it is 
on the Continent, a necessary introduction to dinner, 
is yet gaining popularity. The very rich and the 
very poor are supplied with it So are the soldier 
and the sailor. A small piece of coarse meat will go 
a long way if made into soup. Or you may place in 
the stock-pot the most dainty parts of the most costly 
meats ; or of poultry or game. 

The chief division of soups is into clear and thick 
soups. The excellence of the first is that the clear- 
ness be obtained without any sacrifice of flavour. If 
stock is cleared by white of egg, the flavour is sacri- 
ficed. The proper mode of making clear soup will 
be given in a subsequent recipe. Whether to order 
clear or thick soup is the first point : this must 
depend on the stock at your disposal, and if it appears 
a good clear soup is not obtainable, then order a thick 
soup — that is either a puree of poultry or game, or 
of vegetables, or of barley and rice, &c. ; or a soup 
in which eggs are beaten up, such as * Bonne Femme ' 
or * Jenny Lind ' soup. But it is important to bear in 
mind that all soups which have vegetables or cream 
in them will not keep in hot weather. 



BROTH OR STOCK. 71 

Bones contain from 39 to 49 per cent, of gelatine, 
an entirely tasteless substance. The proportion of 
bone to meat should not exceed a sixth part in 
weight. The soup meat and bone must be put on in 
cold water ; the bone must be broken. Perfectly clear 
soup should be made from meat, without any mixture 
of bone. All meat which has been cooked before 
being put into the stock-pot should be carefully wiped 
and dusted with a little flour and salt. All the scraps 
and trimmings of poultry ought to be put into the 
pot. 

Soup must be sent to table very hot ; the tureen 
must be heated by a hot-water bath, and wiped dry 
before the soup is put in ; and there should always 
be soup tureens of a size suitable to a small as well 
as to a large number of guests, as, if a small quantity 
of soup is sent up in a huge vessel, it must be chilled 
before it is put into the soup plates. The ration of 
soup is \ pint for each lady, \ pint for each gentle- 
man. 

Broth or Stock. 

The first step in making soups is to prepare a good 
clear broth, or stock, as it is technically called. This 
can be made from beef, or mutton, or veal ; but it is 
desirable, if possible, to use two kinds of meat, and 
to add trimmings of chicken. 

The meat must be newly killed, not merely fresh, 
or clear broth is not attained. 

The proportion of meat to water is about one 
pound to one quart. Bones make stiff stock, as 
they are nearly half gelatine ; but they do not give 



72 BROTH OR STOCK. 

flavour. This is the case with the large bones of 
the ox ; knuckle of vc^l and scrag of mutton bones 
do not give the same coarse taste ; but the bone 
should never exceed a sixth part of the weight of the 
meat 

It will be observed that the broth now described 
is made from undressed meat — a practice sometimes 
called extravagant. It is, however, the only way to 
make clear, bright soup ; and if the trimmings from 
cutlets, fillets, and steaks, and the scrag end of necks 
of mutton are used, and a small quantity of gravy 
meat only is used, the cost is not large and the 
quality is high. 

Besides the stock-pot in which fresh meat is used, 
there should be one in which the carcasses of roast 
chickens, or game, some bones to which meat adheres, 
the rind of bacon and any trimmings, are simmered in 
water, and an inferior kind of broth is made, which 
is quite good enough for pur& soups. 

The meat in the first stock-pot is also allowed to 
produce a second yield of broth, after the first has been 
strained off, by more water and simmering. Stock or 
soup must never be allowed to remain in any metal 
vessel : it must be transferred to an earthenware pan, 
and kept in that. 

The stock-pot must be of copper, well tinned inside, 
and re-tinned about once a year. Large stock-pots 
have a tap, so that the broth can be drawn off. 

If a copper stock-pot is not used, an earthenware 
jar in an iron saucepan is the substitute. Iron is a 
bad conductor of cooking heat for making broth ; and 
if soup is even warmed in an iron saucepan, it acquires 



GARNISHING SOUP. 73 

a disagreeable flavour. The time for simmering the 
stock-pot is about 4^ to 5 hours. 

The surface of the broth must be cleared from 
scum as it rises up, and the vegetables must not be 
put in till the skimming is over. 

These vegetables must include carrots, turnips (or 
kohl rabi), celery, onions, leeks, and fine herbs, tied in 
a little bundle. No vegetable must be allowed to 
give a dominant flavour. Salt and a pinch of sugar 
must be put in almost the last thing. 

The stock-pot must always remain uncovered. 
This is a rule which should be impressed on the mind 
of the kitchen-maid. The cook knows too well how 
much trouble is caused her by such a rule not being 
observed, and that, take as much trouble as she may, 
the soup cannot be properly cleared after it has been 
made turbid by putting the cover on the stock-pot. 

Quenelles for Garnishing Soup. 

The quenelles used for the floating garnish of 
soups may be made from game, poultry, or meat. 
They must be rather firmer and harder than those 
used as entries, or they will fall to pieces in the soup. 
The shape of an almond or olive is that most suitable. 
About two or three quenelles should be allowed for 
each guest. 

Another mode of making quenelles is to set a 
small lump of mac^doine of vegetables in quenelle 
meat, and then to give this a coating of the quenelle 
meat so that the whole is about the size of a 
poached egg, the vegetables taking the place of the 



74 CONSOMME. 

yolk, and the quenelle meat of the white. A quenelle 
is placed in each soup plate, in the same way as a 
poached egg when that is the garnish of the soup. 




These quenelles are called en surprise, and may 
be used as an entree. 

Consomm^ or Clear Soup. 

The term ' consomm^ ' implies a soup very highly 
flavoured with the juices of meat and poultry ; not 
highly coloured or glutinous, but clear, bright, trans- 
parent. The broth has been strained through a tamis ; 
has been allowed to cool ; the fat has been carefully 
removed, and it then can, if thought proper, receive a 
further dose of fresh meat, and go through the 
simmering process, straining, cooling, &c ; or, if a 
delicate clear soup is desired, the only further point 



CLEARING SOUP. 75 

is to consider what the * floating * addition is to be — 
small quenelles, dice made of custard of two or three 
colours, nudeln or profiterolles ; these will be found 
in the subsequent recipes. 

To clear Soup. 

Soup should not be cleared with white of egg, as 
it destroys the flavour, but with fresh meat, which 
improves it. Allow | lb. of fresh lean beef to two 
quarts of stock, and chop it up very fine, removing all 
skin and fat. Put it in a stewpan with the stock 
and some of thS same kinds of vegetables which have 
been used to flavour the stock. Stir with a wooden 
spoon or whisk till the stock comes to the boil. Draw 
the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer — 
not boil" -for about half an hour, and then strain twice 
through a fine cloth. 

Ordinary Soup. 

The proportions are as follows : — 

3 lbs. beef (of which \ lb. may be bone) ; 

I lb. veal and bone (as in knuckle or neck) ; 

4 quarts cold water. 

Let it come slowly to the heat at which scum and 
bubbles form ; skim repeatedly, then add vegetables 
as follows : 

Carrots ; Celery ; 

Turnips ; Onions and leeks. 

Do not cover the stock -pot. 

Simmer for 5 hours ; strain through a hair-sieve. 



76 JULIEXNE SOUP. 

Consomm^, or Extra-ordinary Soup. 

6 quarts water ; 2 turnips ; 

4 lbs. lean beef (gravy beef) ; 2 onions ; 

2. old hens ; 2 leeks ; 

2 carrots ; i bunch fine herbs. 

Let it simmer slowly for 8 hours, or till it is re- 
duced to two quarts, observing the same rule as to 
skimming and straining ; and use for dainty appetites, 
with any of the garnishes for soups, such as quenelles, 
profiterolles, &c. 

Soup with Bread, or ' Potage cro^ites au pot* 

Cut slices of roll about the size of a crown piece ; 
fry in butter, a golden colour, drain, then moisten 
them with a little stock which has been boiled nearly 
to glaze. Let the crusts absorb this, and then begin 
to dry. Place them in the soup tureen, and pour 
over a good clear soup. It must be sent to table 
without delay, or the crusts would dissolve and break 
into bits when taken out. 

Julienne Soup. 

It is important to observe the relative proportion 
of vegetables for this soup : 
\ lb. carrots ^ 

cut in thin long slices, and throw 
, in a basin of clear water as you 



\ lb. turnips 

2 ozs. leeks 

2 ozs. onions | cut them up ; then drain. 

\ oz. celery 



I 



POTAGE BRUNOISE, 77 

Fry in butter till a light brown ; drain from the 
butter and put in the stock ; let it nearly boil ; then 
simmer slowly for 2 hours in the requisite quantity 
of broth. 

If in spring add asparagus tips ; 

In summer, young peas ; 

In autumn, French beans. 
These to be cooked separately in weak stock or plain 
water, so as to retain their colour. 

If no other green vegetable is at hand, cut lettuce 
leaves in strips ; these require only a few minutes 
cooking. 

Potage Brunoise. 

Cut into little squares, of less than a quarter of 
an inch in size, the following vegetables : — 
4 ozs. of the red part of carrots ; 
4 „ turnips ; 
4 „ leeks ; 

4 „ the white part of celery ; 
4 „ onions. 

Blanch separately, drain, then put in a stewpan 
with 1 2 ounces of butter and let them fry till they 
assume a red hue, add then a pinch of powdered 
white sugar and i pint of broth ; let it simmer for 
half an hour, then pour in 5;^ pints of broth ; let the 
whole simmer on the hot-plate for two hours ; skim, 
and remove the grease. Have ready blanched 8 
ounces of Italian paste, which must also be simmered 
till quite tender, and then drained dry. Put this in 
the soup tureen, and pour the brunoise over it. 



78 LETTUCE SOUP. 

Lettuce Soup. 

Chop up a soft green lettuce, and stew it with 
some butter, sugar, and a few drops of Tarragon 
vinegar (really a few drops ; not more than thirty). 
Keep stirring, and do not let it burn ; but do not 
mind that the lettuces lose their green colour. Add 
a teaspoonful of flour, with pepper and salt. Break 
an ^^'g over it all, and pour on some weak broth. 
Serve with some dice of bread fresh cut into the 
tureen, and add a wine-glass of cream just before 
serving. 

Brunoise Soup, No. 2. 

Lettuces cut into tiny ribbon-like pieces and 
stewed as above, form the principal charm of a soup 
that would otherwise only be distinguished from a 
Julienne by the fact that the vegetables are cut into 
small dice. 

Clear Lettuce Soup. 

Clean and strain and trim the lettuce, which 
should be of the long narrow-leaved sort. Fold 
neatly in three, and tie ; stew with butter and sugar 
and meat broth in a wide shallow pan so that the 
little parcels, like folded gloves, do not touch each 
other. Untie and serve in the tureen, pouring over 
them a bright clear consomme. The French often 
serve these lettuces (as they do the poached eggs for 
a consomme) in a dish, and placing one in each soup 
plate, then add the ladleful of soup for each person. 
This prevents them from untwisting and becoming 
untidy. 



RUSSIAN SOUP. 79 

Russian Soup. 

The common white cabbage is to be cut in shreds 
I of an inch long. 

One onion (if possible, a Spanish onion), to be cut 
in shreds, and a few fine herbs. 

Fry in butter, but do not brown ; drain, and add 
to the soup, with one tablespoonful of flour. 

Have ready small balls of beef sausage, made thus : 

2 ozs. beef chopped very small ; 
2 ozs. suet „ „ 

I egg; 
Pepper and salt. 

Fry ; and place in the soup with a squeeze of 
lemon, just before serving up. 

Mulligatawny Soup. 

Have some good chicken and veal broth made ; 
boil two nice chickens therein ; when done take them 
out. Cut them up into neat pieces, take off the skin, 
and put the pieces between two plates covered over 
with a wet cloth ; then slice one large onion, fry it in 
some fresh butter until it attains the colour of gold, 
then mix in two small tablespoonsful of flour ; stir 
this for a few minutes on a slow fire, then add one 
tablespoonful of curry powder, and half a teaspoonful 
of curry paste ; stir all this together for one minute 
longer, then add about two quarts of the chicken and 
veal broth. Make it very smooth by stirring it over 
the fire until it boils, then let it boil gently on one 



8o MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 

side for about half an hour, and skim all the butter 
off as it rises ; then rub it through a tamis cloth, 
put it in the soup pot, stir it over the fire until it boils, 
taste it, add salt if necessary, then add all the pieces 
of chicken and let it simmer gently for lo minutes. 
Serve with a plate of rice. The rice should be well 
washed, then boiled quickly for 20 minutes in plenty 
of water, then throw^n on to a sieve and put in front 
of the fire for two minutes, stirred up with a fork, and 
served very hot. Do not forget to put a pinch of 
salt to the rice while boiling. Rice should be washed 
in four separate waters. It must be put into boiling 
water. Some rice does not require as much as 20 
minutes, and if boiled too long becomes pulpy and 
the grains stick together. When, by pressing a grain 
between your fingers, you can feel the heart, it is 
sufficiently bojled. 

Mulligatawny Soup, No. 2. 

4 onions ; \ pound ham ; . 

4 apples ; 4 cloves ; 

1 carrot ; i blade of mace ; 

2 turnips ; A bunch of parsley ; 
I head of celcr>^ ; Thyme. 
Bay-leaves ; . 

Cut all into slices, put them into a stewpan with 
\ lb. butter, pass it 20 minutes over a fire ; then add 
a pint of broth, let it simmer about 20 minutes, 
then add 3 tablespoonsful of curry powder, i table- 
spoonful of curry paste, and 4 tablespoonsful of flour. 
Mix the whole well together with 6 quarts of broth ; 



' FISH CURRY SOUP. 8i 

when boiling, skim it. Season with a teaspoonful of 
sugar and salt if required, pass it through a tamis, 
warm and serve with quenelles (small in the soup) ; 
serve with rice in a separate dish. 

A Fish Curry Soup for Six Persons. 

Put the following ingredients into a saucepan : — 

4 onions fried in salad oil a light brown, add six 
tomatoes cut into slices, a bunch of parsley, thyme, 
three bay leaves, winter savory, a wineglass of Chablis, 
pepper and salt ; add 4 tablespoonsful of Yeatman's 
curry powder, and 4 of flour mixed with cold veal 
stock, about one quart or three pints. 

Let the whole boil together thirty minutes, then 
throw your fish in, cut in pieces or slices ; as soon as 
the fish is cooked take out the bunch of herbs, and 
serve some crusts of bread or toast in it. 

The fish which can be used for this soup are 



Turbot 


Pike 


Skate 


Gurnard 


Cod 


Mullet 


Sole 


Conger eel 


Brill 


Mackerel 


Salmon 


Ling 


Sturgeon 


Hake 


Dory 


Haddock 


Plaice 


Cockles 


Carp 


Oysters 


Thornback 


Mussels. 


Lobster 





G 




82 HARE SOUP, 

Hare Soup. 

(From * Dainty Dishes,* by Lady H. St. Clair.) 

I hare — newly killed ; 
I carrot; 
I root of celery ; 
3 onions ; 

I oz. peppercorns — tied in a muslin bag ; 
I bunch of fine herbs ; 
Salt to taste ; 

I tablespoonful of ground rice — to be added after 
the hare soup is strained. 

Cut the hare in pieces, taking care to save the 
blood ; place the pieces in a large dish with the 
quantity of water, a quart to a pound of hare. Let 
it stand an hour. Add the blood, strain the liquid 
through a sieve into the stock-pot, add the hare, and 
put on fire. Stir till it boils, lest it curdle ; skim, then 
put in vegetables; simmer for three hours; pass 
through a hair sieve, add ground rice and simmer. 
The fillets of hare should be reserved, cut into dice, 
and served with the soup. 

Thick Hare Soup, No. 2. 

After opening the hare be careful to reserve the 
blood in a basin. Cut the meat into small pieces, 
and put it on to boil with three or four pints of water, 
^ lb. of onions, i carrot, and 12 black peppercorns. 
Let it boil for four hours ; strain and add the blood, 
stirring it till it comes to boiling point. Let it remain 
on the fire for twenty minutes, adding a few leaves of 
celery to flavour, and potatoes if liked. 



CLEAR GROUSE SOUP. 83 

Clear Grouse Soup. 

Cut up two uncooked grouse or blackcock into 
small pieces, taking care to select old birds. Put the 
pieces into three pints of water, and let it simmer 
slowly for some hours. Add twelve black peppercorns 
and a shred onion and carrot. Strain before serving. 

Take out the best bits of the breast before they 
have been stewed too long ; press between two plates 
till cold ; cut them to the shape of almonds, and use 
as the * floating ' garnish of the soup. 

Clear Hare Soup is made in a similar way. Veni- 
son Soup can be made like clear Hare Soup or like 
Thick Hare Soup. Bear in mind that all game used 
for soup must not only be free from taint, but be newly 
killed. 

Turtle Soup. 

(From dried Turtle.) 

The pieces of dried turtle require to be soaked in 
cold water for three days and three nights, the water 
being changed every morning. And as the turtle has 
to be cooked for twelve hours in the stock which 
forms the soup, four days are required to produce 
turtle soup. After the turtle has undergone soaking, 
it swells to three times its size when dry, it is then 
ready for putting into the stock. 

One pound of turtle is used for every three quarts 
of soup. 

The stock is made by laying slices of ham in the 

stock-pot, and then a knuckle of veal cut up, as in 

other soups ; cold water, a slow fire, and skimming. 

G 2 



84 MOCK TURTLE SO OP. 

The vegetables, put in at the usual stage, are to be 
green onions, bay leaves, a large bunch of fine herbs, 
and a handful of parsley. Pepper, salt in very 
moderate quantity (as else the long period during 
which the turtle cooks will make the soup too salt), 
and six cloves. When the stock is strained take out 

• 

the onions, herbs, and parsley, and put them in a stew- 
pan with ^ lb. butter and a blade of mace ; when the 
butter is melted add a little sugar, simmer on the fire 
a short time and then rub through a tamis ; add 
these to the soup after the turtle has been simmered in 
it for nearly the twelve hours ; add also a glass of 
good Madeira and a squeeze of lemon, and a little 
thin white * roux. ' Turtle soup must not be much 
thickened, and must present a greenish colour, not a 
brown. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take a calf's head, with the skin on, and 4 pigs' 
feet ; wash and clean thoroughly ; reserve the brains 
and the tongue, with which a separate dish is made ; 
remove the palate. Put the head and feet in the 
stock-pot with a gallon of cold water, remove the 
scum as it rises, and add 

A bunch of fine herbs ; 2 carrots ; 

4 onions ; 2 sticks of celer>', 

as in other stock-pots. When the flesh will come o ff 
the bones, remove the best parts and press them till 
cold. 

Take away the bones and replace the rest of tl^^ 
meat, and simmer for 3 hours. Strain, and wh^^^ 



OX'TAIL SOUP, 85 

cold skim off the fat. The next day cut the pressed 
meat into dice (and prepare egg balls, if desired), as 
the floating part of the soup. Flavour the soup with 
i^ glass good sherry and the juice of a lemon. Simmer 
with the meat in for half an hour. If egg balls are 
added, do so only a minute before serving the soup. 

Ox-tail Soup. 

1 ox-tail ; 3 onions ; 

2 lbs. lean beef ; Thyme ; 

4 carrots ; 2 sticks of celery. 

Cut the tail into several pieces, and fry brown in 

butter. Slice the onions and carrots ; and when you 

remove the ox-tail from the frying-pan, put in these 

and brown also. When done, tie them in a bag with 

a bunch of thyme, and drop into the soup-pot. Lay 

the pieces of ox-tail in the same ; then the meat cut 

into small slices. Grate over them the two whole 

carrots, and add four quarts of cold water, with pepper 

and salt. Boil from four to six hours, in proportion 

to the size of the tail. Strain fifteen minutes before 

serving it, and thicken with two tablespoonsful of 

browned flour. Boil ten minutes longer. 

Cockie-leekie Soup. 

Skin a pheasant, and cut it up into small pieces 
^^ make a soup stock. Cut up eight white leeks, 
Parboil them for ten minutes, pour off the water, and 
^^d the stock by degrees. Let it simmer for three 
^^Urs, adding pepper and salt to taste. An allowance 
^* tv^o prunes to each guest should be dropped into 



86 GREEN PEA SOUP. 

this soup a quarter of an hour before serving. The 
leeks are said to be much better after they have been 
just touched by frost. 

This soup may be made of beef, but is best of 
fowl or pheasant. 

Green Pea Soup. 

In order that this soup should be a good colour' 
the peas must not be old, and there must be a supply 
of young spinach leaves to produce a really pure 
green. 

In some gardens it is usual to sow cheap early 
sorts of peas, and to use the young growth when 
about eighteen inches high, for making pea-soup. 
The flavour is excellent, but gardeners of course 
consider it an extravagant arrangement. 

Lettuce leaves are also used with pea soup, but 
there is risk of a slightly bitter flavour if the stems 
are not taken away. 

The peas must be boiled till tender, then drained 
and passed through a hair sieve. The pur^e is mixed 
with a light-coloured broth, which must be flavoured 
strongly with onions, unless onions arc boiled with 
the peas and passed through the sieve. The spinach 
leaves arc to be bruised, and the green liquid mixed 
with cream (or milk), and after the pur^e and the 
broth are amalgamated to the thickness of cream and 
warmed, the spinach colouring is stirred in, and a 
pinch of powdered sugar must also be stirred in. 

The soup can be served with croiitons handed 
round, or some very young peas can be boiled in 
water, carefully drained^ and thrown into the soup 



. PEA SOUP, 87 

just before serving. Asparagus tips may be substituted 
for peas. 

In the country the productiveness of the garden 
and the forethought of the gardener will regulate the 
question of how many delicate vegetables can be 
used. In towns it is a mere question of expense. 

Green Pea Soup, No. 2. 

Take a quart of shelled peas or a peck of un- 
shelled ; separate the old peas from the young, 
reserving the latter to be used whole in the soup ; 
boil, and drain, and dry. Put the large peas in a 
stevvpan with some fat bacon (or some butter), a 
little parsley, and enough water to cover the whole ; 
let them simmer till quite tender ; rub through a 
sieve, or pound in a mortar ; dilute this pease-paste 
with veal broth, strongly flavoured with onion, or, if 
for a maigre soup, with milk ; put in some spinach 
leaves or expressed juice for the sake of the colour ; 
pass through a tamis ; put in the tender young 
peas ; let them just warm, and serve. If there are no 
young peas, serve crodtons cut very small. 

Winter Pea Soup. 

Flavour, not colour, is the characteristic of winter 
pea soup, and dried or split peas require longer 
boiling before they can be rubbed through a sieve. 

Haricot beans and lentils also make excellent 
winter soups. The processes are the same ; they all 
require onions and celery to be incorporated with the 



88 SOCrPS WITH ITALIAN PASTES. 

pur^e, and they can be made with very weak stock, 
or even without any meat stock, by using milk and 
water to mix with the purde. Small dice of bacon 
which has been steamed or parboiled can be put in 
the soup and just warmed before serving. Crodtons 
and dried mint are handed round with the soup. . 

If the peas, haricots, or lentils are old, it is desir- 
able to steep them in cold water twelve hours before- 
hand ; drain, and then boil for the pur^e. 

Boiling a ham bone m the broth or water with 
which dried pea soup is made greatly improves the 
flavour. No salt is to be added in this case, but a 
little sugar instead. 

Soups with Italian Pastes. 

Macaroni is to be broken into even lengths of 
\ inch. 

Vermicelli is to be broken into even lengths of 
I inch. 

Italian paste letters may be used as a variety. 

Allow a tablespoonful of vermicelli or macaroni 
to each guest : or, by weight, \ oz. to each plate of 
soup. Blanch in hot water, and drain ; then simmer 
in the stock. 

These pastes differ in the time they require to 
plim, and experience only can fix the time required 
for that purpose. 

Rice and semolina may be used irt the same way. 

French or Groult's tapioca in pale delicate-flavoured 
stock, boiled so as to dissolve, gives a peculiarly 
nourishing soup, and is very wholesome and palatable. 



EGG SOUPS, 89 

Bonne Femme and other Egg Soups. 

When the broth is either poor in flavour of meat 
or not transparent, as happens in second boilings, 
very good soup can be made by adding yolks of eggs 
stirred up in milk and mixed carefully with the broth. 
Shreds of lettuce or of sorrel are added, or of asparagus 
tips or French beans. 

The egg mixture should not be added till the 
soup is poured into the tureen ; or, if added to the 
soup in the saucepan, it must be very carefully stirred 
and not allowed to boil, otherwise it will curdle. 

Jenny Lind Soup. 

2 ozs. pearl sago ; \ pint cream ; 

^ pint water ; 4 yolks of eggs. 

I quart stock or veal broth ; 

The sago must be thoroughly washed and sim- 
mered in the water till it is transparent and tender. 
It is then to be mixed into the boiling stock, or broth, 
and the cream. Lastly, the yolks are to be stirred 
in. The best way to produce a smooth soup is to 
stir the eggs one by one into a teacupful of the broth, 
and then stir that into the soup. 

The cream may be omitted. The stock may be 
made without vegetables, if for an invalid. 



90 n IS QUE, 

Bisque, or Crayfish Soup. 

Wash four dozen crayfish and put them in a stew- 
pan with sliced carrots and onions, pepper, salt, fine 
herbs, some stock, and a glass of sherry. Boil for 
ten minutes ; then take out the meat from the tails 
to be used as garnish in the bisque. Simmer in stock 
\ lb. of rice ; put the crayfish, shells, and rice in a 
mortar, and pound the whole to a pulp ; add the 
liquid, &c., in which the crayfish were boiled, and 
pass through a tamis ; warm in the bain-marie, and 
add a little cream or butter to give smoothness. The 
meat from the tail is to be cut into pieces the size of 
a large pea, and just warmed in the soup. Crofltons 
of bread cut in dice are to be dried, or slightly browned 
in the oven, and handed with the bisque. This soup 
is too rich to admit of the crofltons being fried. The 
soup can be made with lobsters or prawns. The shell 
of the body alone must be pounded with the meat. 

Nudel Soup. 

(German Reeipe.) 

Beat two eggs well, and make into a firm paste 
with flour ; knead it well, and divide it into tw 
equal parts ; make of each a little loaf, and roll it ou. 
thin ; dry these, but do not let the paste harden ; ro 
it up and cut into small pieces about the size of 
gooseberry (nudeln) ; scatter them separately inl 
boiling salt and water, and boil quickly. Strain 
the water, and boil them again in brown or whi 
broth previously prepared ; season to taste, and ser 
after it has simmered for a quarter of an hour. 



QUEEN'S SOUP, 91 

This soup is stronger if the nudeln^ instead of 
being boiled in salt water, are put straight into the 
soup ; but then the soup is naturally not so clear. 

Queen's Soup. 

Skin and clean out the inside of three fowls or 
chickens ; wash them in warm water ; stew for an 
hour with sufficient strong veal broth to cover the 
meat, and a bunch of parsley. Take out the fowls, 
and soak the crumb of a small loaf in the, liquor ; cut 
the meat off; take away the skin, and pound the 
flesh in a mortar, adding the soaked crumb and the 
yolks of five hard-boiled eggs ; rub this through a 
coarse sieve or tamis, and put into it a quart of 
cream that has been previously boiled. 

Purees. 

As this expression is used in three senses, it is 
necessary to explain and define what is meant by 
each. 

All purees arc the result of boiling or stewing the 
fruit, vegetable, or cereal, in broth or water, and 
passing the mixture through a more or less fine 
sieve or tamis. 

If the pur^c is to be served separately as a vege- 
table, not as a soup, it must be almost solid. 

If it is to be used for soup, it is diluted with broth 
or stock, and other additions, till the mixture is of 
the consistency of thick cream. 

Or if the puree is to be used as sauce, a different 
thickness or thinness is required ; not uniform, but 



92 PUREES. 

varying according to the materials. For instance, 
apple and tomato sauces are to be thicker than celery 
or chestnut sauces. Practice and discriminating taste 
must adjust rules and exceptions. 

Pur^e soups should be of the consistency of cream, 
and perfectly smooth and free from lumps. The addi- 
tion of cream gives greater smoothness to all purees, 
and is necessary when they are made without meat ; 
but these soups will keep sweet for only twelve hours. 
The time for simmering and the quantity of water 
differ according as the vegetable is young and tender, 
or old and hard. Dried peas, &c., must be soaked 
beforehand. The simmering must produce a pulp 
which will pass through the tamis or wire sieve, and 
the broth must be added and stirred in to the requisite 
consistency. Beware of salt, as the simmering in 
this as in all cases where the liquid reduces^ makes 
the stock or soup increasingly salt. 

This class of soups may be made with 

Carrots Barley 

Turnips Rice 

Jerusalem artichokes Rice and tomatoes 

Green peas Chestnuts 

Dried peas Spinach 

Haricot beans Asparagus 

Lentils Pistachio nuts 

Potatoes Celery 

A mixture of carrots, turnips, and potatoes. 

They all require onions and celery to give flavo 
They must all be passed through a sieve, and 
vegetables or cereals may be stewed in weak br 



T 



GIB LET SOUP, 93 

or in water with some butter if for maigre soups ; and 
with all of them it is usual to serve small dice of 
bread fried in butter. 

Pur^e of Tomato Soup. 

Allow two tomatoes to each ration of soup ; 
simmer them in weak broth with a small quantity of ' 
rice till they are tender ; pass through a tamis. 

If onions are liked, simmer one or two and pass 
through the tamis with the tomatoes. Season with 
salt and a little sugar. Dilute the puree with broth 
till it is about the thickness of * double cream/ and 
warm for use. Serve with croiltons. 

This soup does not require cream or milk in it, 
but, if it IS made with water instead of broth, cream 
must be added. The same rule holds good for all 
purees. 

Pur^e of Turnip Soup. 

Cut up the turnips into small pieces, pour cold 
water on them, and let them steep and strain. 

Put them in a stewpan to stew with a piece of 
butter, and add pepper and salt. When they are soft 
pass them through the tamis. With a little spoonful 
of hot water or hot broth, wash out the pan in which 
they were cooked, and add all to the puree, with \ lb. 
of potato flour, a little more salt, and the quantity of 
broth you require. 

Giblet Soup. 

Scald two sets of goose, or four sets of duck's giblets, 
using them when the birds arc killed, not saving to 



94 NOTCH POTCH. 

use after the ducks or geese are roasted — in compliance 
with a rule that all meat used in and for soup must 
be quite fresh. 

Divide the gizzards and necks into small pieces ; 
split and clean the head, and cut off the nose. 

Put them in a stewpan, with enough cold water 
to cover them ; skim as the simmering goes on ; then 
put in a bundle of fine herbs, an onion, an extra sprig 
of parsley, and some black peppercorns in a muslin 
bag ; continue to simmer till the gizzards are tender 
— from I to i^ hours. 

If the giblet soup is to be clear, take out the 
pieces from the stewpan, and use them in a rich clear 
soup. If the giblet soup is to be thick, proceed as 
follows V — 

Melt i^ ozs. of butter, and stir in enough flour 
rdried previously) to make a paste ; dilute w^ith the 
giblet broth, adding any weak broth that may be 
available ; simmer for \ hour ; season with a squeeze 
of lemon juice, a glass of white wune, and a touch of 
cayenne ; put in the giblets to get hot, and serve. 

Lemon and cayenne may be handed round, not 
put in, if preferred. 



Hotch Potch. 

(' Dainty Dishes,' by Lady H. St. Clair.) 

Neck, or breast, or two scrags of mutton, cut 
small pieces, and the fat removed ; 

2 quarts water ; 

I quart old peas ; 

I pint young peas, added later ; 



SOUPE MAIGRE. 95 

6 carrots \ 

6 turnips [ 

3 sticks celery " cut into dice, 

7 young onions 

and put in the stock pot after the broth has boiled up 
and been skimmed. 

Stew for 8 hours ; pick out the bones, and only 
serve the best bits of the meat. 

(The next day pass all that remains of soup, meat, 
and vegetables through the tamis, and serve as 
Puree a la St. Clair.) 

Milk of Almonds Soupe Maigre. 

Blanch 12 ozs. of rice and put in a bain-marie 
or milk saucepan with one quart of fresh milk, a pinch 
of salt and a pinch of sugar ; let it simmer for one 
hour. Blanch and skin ^ lb. of sweet almonds and 
about eight or ten bitter almonds, and pound them in 
a mortar, with just a spoonful or two of milk to pre- 
vent their turning to oil ; then dilute with enough 
nilk to enable the mixture to pass through the 
amis. Mix the almond milk with the rice milk, 
tir together and serve. Add sugar to taste, if sugar 
liked. The rice milk must be hot enough to bear 
e cold almond milk, and the soup to be warm. 

Soupe Maigre. 

To 2 quarts of water put a quart of dry peas, 

irge onions, one head of celery, a carrot, 2 turnips, 

mdful of spinach, and a sprig of mint. Stew all 

luite soft ; strain and pass through a sieve. Put 



96 iiOUPE MAIGRE. 

the pulp and water back into the stewpan, with a 
lettuce sliced, a small piece of butter, and two or three 
lumps of sugar. Put it on a quick fire again for ten 
minutes or so. If a bad colour, add a little spinach 
juice. 

Some small asparagus chopped is an improve- 
ment. 

Summer Soupe Maigre. 

The hearts of 6 lettuces cut in pieces, 3 cucumbers 
pared and sliced, one pint of young peas (to be added 
later), 2 large onions, a little parsley chopped fine, 
\ lb. of fresh butter, and two or three lumps of sugar. 
Stew all together an hour, stirring often. Have ready 
2 quarts of peas boiled in a gallon of water. Put them 
through a hair sieve to the water in which they were 
boiled. Add to this the lettuces and cucumbers, and 
simmer i^ hours. When done take out the onions. 
Dip in a sprig of mint before it is taken off the fire. 



Cheap Soupe Maigre. 

2 quarts green peas ; A bunch fine herbs ; 

2 onions sliced ; 2 quarts hot water. 

Stew for i an hour. Add mashed potatoes, or 
plimmed rice, and pass through a tamis. Season with 
pepper, salt and sugar (a tablespoonful) ; add a pint of 
new, milk, stir till the mixture is smooth, and then 
warm. Serve croutons of bread fried in butter. 

A similar soup is made with roots, but as they 
require unequal time, observe the following rules : — 



SOUPE MAIGRE. 97 

Carrots . . . .2 hours 

Celery . . . .1 hour 

Turnips . . . • i ,1 

Shallots . . . • i „ 

Lentil Soupe Maigre. 

For four persons. 

i\ lbs. lentils ; soak in cold water for 24 hours ; 
drain. Stew in a very small quantity of water ; skim. 
Pass through a tamis. Boil an onion in milk and 
pass through with the lentils. Make the puree the 
necessary thinness with milk, and stir in 2 ozs. 
butter ; salt and pepper to taste. 

White Soupe Maigre. 

For four persons. 

I pint milk ; 2 pints boiling water ; 

3 tablespoonsful flour. 

A little vegetable flavour (onions or celery), pepper 
and salt ; let the flour just cook in the milk. 

Stir in the yolks of two eggs, and do not let them 
turn the soup. 

Asparagus points, carrots cut in dice, or young 
peas, parboiled and then warmed in butter, may be 
thrown in. 

Fried bread (in little squares) is to be sent up on 
a napkin, and handed round with this soup. 



II 



98 MUTTON BROTH.. 

Pearl Barley Soupe Maigje. 

For four persons. 

Take \ lb. of pearl barley ; boil it for 5 hours 
in 2 quarts of water, which must reduce to i quart 
Pass through a tamis ; season with salt and pepper, 
and stir in i^ozs. of fresh butter, or, if preferred, some 
cream, or a gill of milk into which the yolk of one 
(t^'g has been stirred. 

A variety can be made by putting in some chopped 
parsley, or a few young peas (boiled), so as to have the 
contrast of green with the white pur^e. 

Pur^e of Game, Chicken, or Rabbit Soup. 

The remains of roast grouse, partridge, &c., should^ 
be carefully saved to make pur^e of game soup. Any 
part which is high must be removed before the car- 
casses, breasts, &c., are put away in the cold-meat 
larder. The meat is to be carefully scraped away 
from the bones, pounded in a mortar, diluted with 
stock, and passed through a tamis. This purde is 
to be mixed with well-seasoned stock ; the soup 
ought to be the consistence of double cream. If the 
game pur^e is not quite enough, a small amount of 
rice stewed in broth may be passed through the 
tamis with the game. 

Mutton Broth. 

Take the scrag end of one or two necks of mutton ; 
reserve the * best end ' for cutlets, or for roasting, but 
use for the broth the scrag when newly killed and the 



SCOTCH BROTH. 99 

juices not dried up ; and hang the best end till it is 
tender. 

Cut the scrag into small junks. Allow a pint of 
water to a pound of scrag ; put on in cold water ; when 
it boils, skim, and remove to side of fire, and let it 
simmer, and continue to skim. Have ready cut up 
carrots, turnips, onions, leeks or chibbals, celery, and 
well-washed rice ; when the broth is clear of scum 
and fat, put in the vegetables and rice and salt. 
Simmer till all are done ; take out the rough bits of 
bone, &c., but send up the meat in the broth ; and 
sprinkle in chopped parsley two minutes before serving. 
Not less than four hours are required for the whole 
process. Barley can be used instead of rice ; barley 
requires a long time to plim in water before it is put 
in the broth, and a long time to simmer in the broth ; 
a rather large quantity of water may be used. 

As in the case of hotch potch, the remains of this 
soup may be passed through a tamis, and served as 
a pur^e soup next day. 

Scotch Broth. 

Take the scrag end of a neck of mutton. Trim 
off all superfluous fat. Put the meat into a saucepan 
with one pint of water to every pound of meat, and 
allow one pint of water for boiling over. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and i^ ozs. of pearl barley, for every 
quart of water. Bring it to the boil and remove the 
scum as it rises. Then add a cabbage, well washed, 
and cut into small pieces, and 2 carrots, scraped and 

cut into dice, and i leek. Let the broth boil up, and 

II 2 



loo CHEAP SOUP, 

then simmer gently for labours. Add a turnip, washed, 
scraped, and cut into dice. Simmer for another half 
hour. The broth will then be ready. Take out the 
meat and bones ; pour the broth into a tureen, and 
add a teaspoonful of fine fresh chopped parsley. Some 
persons prefer the meat left in the broth ; in which 
case it should be taken off the bones, and cut into 
neat pieces. If the soup is to be extra good, the best 
end of the neck of mutton may be boiled in it, and 
either cut into small cutlets and left in the broth, or 
serv'ed as a separate dish. A neck of veal or of 
venison may be used instead of a neck of mutton. 

Cheap Soup. 

2 ozs. dripping ; 

\ lb. solid uncooked meat cut in dice, 

one inch square ; 
\ lb. onions ; 
\ lb. turnips ; 

2 ozs. leeks ; 

3 ozs. celery ; 

\ lb. rice, or pearl barley ; 

2 ozs. salt ; 

\ oz. brown sugar ; 

6 quarts water. 

Put in a stewpan the dripping, meat, onions sliced, 
and sugar ; stir till fried a light brown. Then add 
turnips, celery, leeks ; stir for ten minutes ; add i 
quart cold water and the rice, and let it heat. To 
this put 5 quarts hot water ; stir, and simmer for 3 
hours. 



FISH. loi 



CHAPTER XIV. 

» 

FISH. 

Much choice cannot be exercised in the selection of 
fish. The fishmonger sends fish according to the 
season and the supply for the number of persons re- 
quired ; and it is in the dressing and sauce that the 
cook's discernment can be shown. The appropriate 
sauces are given with the recipes for cooking fish. 

When the supply of fish is derived from the fish- 
monger, it is sent cleaned and ready for cooking ; 
but if brought fresh from the sea, lake, or river, it has 
to be carefully cleaned and washed. There should 
be a pair of sharp-pointed scissors and a knife kept 
for the purpose. The scales must be scraped off 
(fish can be more easily scaled if dipped for a minute 
into boiling water) ; an opening made at the side, 
beginning from near the head ; the entrails must be 
taken out (but not the roe, either soft or hard), and 
all blood, &c., be carefully washed out. The fish 
must be washed thoroughly, and then dried with a 
coarse cloth. 

Salmon, turbot, and cod are best boiled ; the im- 
portant point in boiling is that they should be made 
firm, not pulpy, by the process. The water must be 



I02 FISH. 

strongly impregnated with salt, from 4 ozs. to 8 ozs. 
(in the case of salmon), and \ oz. saltpetre to a gallon 
of water added, and must boil when the fish is put in. 

It is not desirable to cook a large salmon or cod 
whole, the thickest parts requiring a longer time than 
the tail. Slices of cod and slices of salmon are 
therefore to be preferred. In the case of turbot the 
difference of thickness is not so great, and turbot may 
be boiled whole ; but an incision is to be made along 
the backbone on the dark side. 

Small pieces of large fish, or small fish, lose so 
much of their flavour if boiled, that it is far better to 
wrap them in buttered paper and cook them in the 
oven. Care must be taken not to overcook them, and 
sauce of a piquant character must be selected to serve 
separately. 

Fillets of fish make very good dishes, either fried 
in breadcrumbs and eggs, or in batter, or baked and 
served with sauce over them, arranged like cutlets. 

The cold scraps of fish are to be kept, making 
good breakfast dishes, such as kedgeree or fish cakes. 




Home-made Isinglass. 

The bones of turbot and of all fish that are boiled 
should be taken care of, and boiled down for aspic 
jelly. The process consists in boiling down the bones, 
straining the liquid, testing a small quantity to ascer- 
tain if it is stiff enough, and simmering till the jelly 
formed will bear the addition of a little wine or 
vinegar, and be a jelly when cold. 



SALMON, 103 

To boil Salmon. 

To every 3 lbs. of salmon put i lb. of salt and 
sufficient water to cover the fish with saltpetre in the 
proportion of \ oz. to a gallon of water. Let the salt 
and water be thoroughly boiling, and skim it before 
putting in the fish. Boil quickly, allowing ten minutes 
to the pound, and serve immediately. 

Slices of salmon should be cut an inch thick. 

The appropriate sauces are mayonnaise, tartar, or 
a little of the water in which it has been boiled. 

Salmon Curry. 

Take a large onion ; cut it into small slices, and 
fry to a light brown in an ounce of butter ; put it into 
three-quarters of a pint of strong stock, with a table- 
spoonful of curry powder, a teaspoonful of anchovy 
sauce, the juice of half a lemon, cayenne, and salt to 
taste ; simmer all gently till the onion is tender, 
stirring it occasionally ; cut the remains of any boiled 
salmon into small square pieces ; carefully take away 
all skin and bone ; lay it in the stewpan, and let it 
gradually heat through, but do not let it boil long. 

Fresh salmon cut in slices may be curried in the 
same manner, but must be allowed to cook a much 
longer time. 

Salmon Steaks. 

Dry well with a cloth, dredge with flour, and lay 
them upon a well-buttered gridiron over clear hot 
coals. Turn with a broad-bladed knife slipped be- 



I04 TURBOT. 

neath, and a flat wire egg-beater above, lest the steak 
should break. When done to a light brown, lay in a 
hot dish, butter each steak, seasoning with salt and 
pepper, cover closely, and serve. 

Tinned Salmon. 

This is a very useful article to keep in the store 
room. The best modes of using preserved salmon 
are fish cakes, a curry, or a mayonnaise. The oil 
which sometimes exudes from salmon must be al- 
lowed to drain away before using. 

In making the fish cakes allow equal weights of 
mashed potato and salmon. 

Norwegian Lax (Salmon). 

This preparation of salmon is eaten without any 
cooking process. The tin is placed on a dish in 
which a napkin has been folded, and handed round 
with slices of dry toast and butter. 

The lax keeps good for about three days after the 
tin is opened. 

Turbot and Brill. 

After cleaning and washing the fish, let it disgorge 
in cold water for an hour, or less if it is quite white in 
a shorter time. Let it drain ; then make on the grey 
side an incision about an inch in length right in the 
middle, near the head ; tie it up, head to tail ; rub 
with a lemon, and place on the frame which fits into 
the turbot kettle ; cover with cold water in which salt 
and saltpetre have been dissolved ; place on the stove, 
and when near boiling, skim. Let it continue to 



♦■ ■•'•.■»■ 



' ;>.'!'! 



' ■» 



1 1 • 1 • ! , 
t : . i 1 1. I • 



1 * .'-'.-■ 



P 






• •:: ■.• \ 



• ^ ■ ■ .• 



■ ■tji-c- •{;». . 






\ ' '. ' . ■ ■ 



• . 1 I 



y\ 



\'' 



!■• i-^n. \.. '. 



-;; ' 



. I I J i k 

■ T * * 

•• :'. \\:a« r in \.;:-:':' 



TURBO T. 



105 



bubble, but not boil. Three-quarters of an hour is 
about the time for a turbot of 10 or 12 lbs. — rather 




COPPER FISH-KEITLE. 

more if thick. When cooked enough, if you prick it 

with a twine needle, the liquid that comes out will be 

white like milk. 

I gallon water ; 

4 ozs. salt ; 

\ oz. saltpetre. 

The appropriate sauce is Dutch sauce. 



Turbot au Gratin. 

This is prepared from turbot (or any white sea- 
fish) which has been already boiled. The remains 
must be separated into flakes with a spoon, not cut. 
A cream sauce must be ready, and a little grated 
Parmesan cheese and a squeeze of lemon is to be 
stirred in. Mix this with the flakes of fish, place in a 
shallow fireproof china dish, cover with breadcrumbs 
which have been steeped in butter and browned, place 
in the oven for twenty minutes, and send to table in 



io6 JOHN DORY, 

the same dish. If the top is not brown, use a sala- 
mander to give it the proper tint. 

Brill k la Ravigotte. 

Take a small brill, and score it down the back ; 
season with salt and pepper, and either grill it over 
a slow fire, or wrap in buttered paper and bake in the 
oven ; prepare a mayonnaise sauce with the following 
additions — tarragon, chervil, capers, mustard, cayenne, 
and a little spinach green ; mix the sauce thoroughly, 
and serve in a tureen. 

Dory. 

The John Dory or Poisson de St. Pierre is a very 
ugly fish, but is highly esteemed from the firmness 
of its flesh ; those which are thickest across the 
shoulders are the best.^ 

Have ready a fish-kettle of spring water boiling, 
throw in a handful of salt, put the fish on the drainer 
and boil for 20 minutes — of course a small dory 
requires a shorter time — lift the drainer out and take 
care in transferring the fish to the dish, on which a 
napkin has been placed over the earthenware drainer. 

Serve Dutch sauce in a sauce-boat, or brown caper 
sauce, according to taste and to the other sauces of 
the dinner that day. 

Skate. 

Skate is boiled in the same way as turbot ; the 
appropriate sauce is black butter. 

• Mr. F. Buckland says dorys are better for being kept one or two 
days. 



COD. 107 

Gurnard. 

Gurnard, a heavy-headed fish, is not on that account 
despicable ; the flesh is firm and the flavour good. 
It is best stuffed with a bread-and-herbs stuffing, and 
baked. 

Any of the usual sauces for fish, or a tomato sauce, 
may be sent up in a sauce-boat. 

Cod. 

In boiling cod, a smaller quantity of salt is used 
than in boiling salmon ; i oz. salt to a quart of 
water is the proportion. 

Place the cod on the fish-strainer in the fish-kettle, 
cover with cold water (salted as above), let it come 
almost to the boil, then simmer slowly for five minutes ; 
skim. Test by touching the fish with the handle of 
the spoon to ascertain if it will flake from the bone. 
Take care it is not sodden or overcooked ; lift the 
fish-strainer, and let all the water run off* before 
dishing the fish on a napkin. 

Sliced Cod. 

Cod, if intended for only three or four perrons, 
should not be boiled. The slices should either be 
wrapped in buttered paper, and baked in the oven for 
about half an hour, or powdered with breadcrumbs 
and broiled. Oyster sauce, egg sauce, brown caper 
sauce, or anchovy sauce may be sent up ; oyster 
sauce of course being recognised as the most appro- 
priate of these sauces for cod in any form. 



io8 RED MULLET. 

Red Mullet 

If you get red mullet fresh from the sea, dress 
them as is done with woodcock retaining the trail ; 
but inland this is not a safe proceeding. 

They can be wrapped in buttered paper, baked in 
the oven and sent up in the buttered paper ; about \ 
an hour is the time in a fairly heated oven. Or broiled ; 
or fried ; the appropriate sauce is Italian sauce : — 

Chopped shallot or onion ; 

Chopped mushroom ; 

Chopped fine herbs ; 

Mixed in brown sauce, and diluted with a glass of 
Chablis wine. 

Red Mullet en papillottes. 

When this fish is fresh from the sea, and can be 
dressed with the * trail ' in, cook it as follows : — 

Take out the gills, and that part of the trail which 
is connected with them, but do not open the fish. 

Prepare as many pieces of strong white paper as 
there are mullets, long and wide enough to wrap round 
and fold over the fish. Place on a baking-tin in a 
moderately hot oven, and bake. Heat a skewer, and 
mark the paper transversely, to give it the look of 
being broiled on a gridiron. Serve with Italian 
sauce. 

Broiled Mackerel {Fresh). 

Clean the mackerel, wash, and wipe dry. Split it 
open, so that when laid flat the backbone will be in' 



SOLE. 109 

the middle. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and lay on a 
buttered gridiron over a clear fire, with the inside 
downward, until it begins to brown ; then turn the 
other. When quite done, lay on a hot dish and butter 
it plentifully. Turn another hot dish over the lower 
one, and let it stand two or three minutes before 
sending to table. 

. Mackerel k la Maitre d'Hdtel. 

Split the mackerel all the way down, season it 
with pepper and salt, put it in a dish in the oven, 
with just enough butter to prevent it drying up. Put 
it on another dish, and lay two or three bits of mattre 
cFMtel butter on it. Serve very hot. 

Fried Sole. 

The principles of frying soles, whitings, and other 
fish are the same. 

The fish must be perfectly clean, and perfectly 
fresh. If the latter point is in the slightest degree 
doubtful, do not attempt to fry it whole, but remove 
the fillets from the bone, and cut off the parts near 
the head and at the edges, and wash with vinegar 
and water. 

After the sole has been cleaned it must be 
thoroughly dried, and just dredged with flour, which 
completes the drying. Have ready plenty of sifted 
breadcrumbs, and enough yolk of egg well beaten to 
coat the fish all over : this is done with a brush. Then 
let every part be covered with breadcrumbs. Take 
care that the lard is hot enough — that is, quite boiling — 



no SOLE, 

or the fish will be limp ; and that it is not discoloured. 
Let the fish be of a golden brown ; place it when fried 
on a paper before the fire to evaporate the greeise. 
Serve on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and 
send up lemon as the adjunct or sauce. 

Sole ^ rAurore. 

Butter a tin dish and lay the sole on it with a 
buttered paper over ; put it in the oven for ten 
minutes ; take it out and carefully remove the centre 
bone, strew a little chopped onion and parsley, and 
replace the upper fillets ; pour over a white sauce, 
return to the oven. Have some hard-boiled eggs ; 
garnish the side with the white cut in shapes, and 
sprinkle the top with the yolk made into crumbs by 
passing through a coarse sieve ; let it get quite hot in 
the oven. 

Sole au Gratin. 

You must have a shallow tinned dish the size of 
your sole — or a fireproof china disU of the shape of a 
sole — in which the sole is to be cooked and sent to 
table ; there being another dish on which the first is 
placed. 

The sole must be tolerably thick ; the fins and 
tail and head are trimmed off, and an incision made 
down the back. Place it in the dish with butter, salt 
and pepper, and 2 tablespoonsful of Chablis, some 
chopped parsley, fine herbs, shallot, and button mush- 
rooms (if available, but they are not essential). Put it 
in the oven ; when one side is done take the dish out, 



SOLE, 1 1 1 

turn the fish on its other side ; add either some brown 
sauce (espagnole), or some little dabs of butter and 
flour ; sprinkle with breadcrumbs which have been 
browned, and finish in the oven. If the sole does 
not look a rich brown, use the salamander ; and send 
it up with the sauce &c. round it, glutinous not 
watery. 

Sole St la Trouville. 

Remove the dark skin from a pair of soles ; cut 
each sole into three pieces. Line a * gratin ' dish with 
butter and breadcrumbs and onions chopped very 
fine, put the dish in the oven to brown, and pour in a 
wine-glass of cider, and let it boil ; then range the 
pieces of sole on the dish, and return to the oven. 
After it has cooked for a few minutes, cover it with 
butter worked up with flour and chopped parsley, and 
finish the cooking. Send up in the dish in which the 
fish is cooked. 

The same dish may be made with fillets of sole 
instead of whole soles. 

Sole ^ la Normande. 

Select a fine thick sole ; take off" the skin ; butter 
a stewpan large enough to hold it flat, and put the 
sole in it, with some bits of butter on the fish, a dozen 
oysters, a dozen mussels, which have been blanched in 
boiling water, a chopped-up onion, a sprig of thyme, 
and one or two of parsley, a little of that form of 
truffle called * Pelures de truffes,' some white pepper 
and some salt, and a glass of equal quantities of 



112 SOLE, 

Chablis and broth. Cover the stewpan, and let it 
cook till three-parts done. 

Take it off the fire, and carefully remove the sole 
to a china or silver dish which will bear baking. 

Meanwhile there must have been prepared a rich 
sauce by mixing scraps of veal and bacon with a little 
flour and butter in a stewpan, then broth and vege- 
table flavours. Let it cook on the fire, but not become 
brown. Strain the sauce twice, adding the sauce in 
which the sole was stewed ; but do not obtain a watery 
sauce. Stir in the yolks of two eggs ; pour this sauce 
over the sole ; garnish it with the oysters and other 
accessories, and with some sippets of bread which 
have been browned in the stewpan. Add button 
mushrooms, which must be saute first. Cover the 
dish when it has been thus daintily arranged, and let 
it finish cooking in the oven. Any fish with firm 
flesh may be dressed in the same way. If this dish 
is to be eaten on a maigre day, make the broth with 
fish bones, and add a little cream as no meat stock is 
used. 

Fillets of Sole aii Gratin. 

Put the following ingredients in a dish which 
will bear oven-heat : chopped onions, mushrooms anc3L 
herbs, with enough butter to prevent their adhering - 
Arrange the fillets neatly on the dish ; mix equa-^ 
quantities of brown sauce and Chablis wine, and po"i3.r 
round the fillets ; if you have more of this mixtix ^^ 
than is required, reserve for subsequent bastit^^ 
Sprinkle breadcrumbs and fine herbs mixed o^^^ 
the fillets ; and over the breadcrumbs pour a 1: 



WHITING QUENELLES. 113 

butter just dissolved. During the time the dish is 
in the oven, it must be watched to see that no part 
dries up, the reserve of sauce or of dissolved butter 
being used to baste the fillets : do not attempt to 
save trouble by placing all the sauce and all the 
butter in the dish at once. 15 to 20 minutes according 
to thickness of fillets ; the oven must be of moderate 
heat. 

Fillets of Sole ^ la Orly. 

Prepare your fillets by steeping them for an hour 
in lemon-juice, pepper, salt, parsley, and slices of 
onion ; drain and dry the fillets. 

Fry in batter, or in a thick coat of flour ; serve on 
a napkin, and prepare a pur^e of tomato sauce to 
hand round with the fillets. 

Bream Grilled. 

Take a sharp knife and score the bream down the 
back ; rub in a little pepper and salt ; butter a gridiron, 
and grill the fish at a moderate temperature, or wrap 
it in buttered paper and bake it in the oven. Serve 
with brown caper sauce. 

Whiting Quenelles. 

Take i lb. fillet of whiting and rub it through a 
^^mis ; add \ lb. butter, \ lb. panada ; season with 
Pepper and salt ; beat up two eggs and mix in, and 
^Iso some fish broth which you have previously made 
^^ith the bones of the whiting. Work up the whole 
^ill it is perfectly smooth ; if necessary, pass through 



114 SALT FISH, 

the tamis. Make into quenelles with two table- 
spoons, poach in fish broth, and serve with a sauce 
made of pur^ of prawns. If the coral of lobster can 
be obtained, the sauce should be coloured with that 

Fillets of Whiting k la Orly. 

Take fillets of whiting, and, if the fillets are large^ 
divide them into two ; season them with pepper, salt,, 
and lemon-juice ; coat them with flour, and fry them 
over a brisk fire. Arrange them neatly on a napkin 
with fried parsley, and send up tomato sauce in a 
sauce-boat. 

Salt Fish k la Lyonnaise. 

Soak the salt fish for two or three days, changing 
the water ; parboil it, dip it into cold water and let it 
drain upon a sieve ; meanwhile slice up some onions, 
and fry them in butter till they begin to turn yellow ; 
remove the bones from the fish ; season with pepper, 
mustard, and a dash of vinegar ; mix it in with the 
fried onions, and let it finish cooking ; serve very hot. 

Salt Fish k la Bonne Femme. 

Wash and peel a dozen potatoes, and trim as many 
onions ; cut into largish pieces as much salt fish as 
will serve for six persons ; lay the potatoes at the 
bottom of the stewpan, next the onions, next again 
the salt fish, which has previously been well washed 
in tepid water. Put in enough water to cover the 
whole, and simmer till the fish is cooked ; take that 
out ; let the onions and potatoes complete their cook- 



• ■ * 4 • » 



:■>. I'll . .-:■"' of. I »!■-! -.• :' : 



I ■ 



• « 



' ■. of Whi'.m.v; a la Orly. 

\. :■ ■• .;. :;:'v. ; iii< -ili^.ts are I.iTl v- 

-» ., oil .;,. ::■■ ^' ii'i [icpper. -.i'\ 
' :i . "t '■ '•/'' il'M:-. .■nd fry tiv: . 
:;. '-■ iri . » -i^^^'v M'l a nu:>l::'. 



I , ■ 



«. •-, :. 



'■ M-^\.' r .i.-.-.i: '!; \ M. chanpii 

.. •'■, '' ;.■;!• •\'.i \v;Lt;'r and Icl . 

^ •■. !'■ '• \ .1 . •: I.'- iiini yd!'- 

■ •' ^ '.> . . : ■ » -'x it i'l uit;» '...• 

«'* ■ ' • li;' ■ ■. » 'V. 1 . ; -f.-rw voi-." ' 



' ...iL ; ' wX ^v la Hoane F-*mme. 






\\ 



. t'.' tl^ ■ f: i^ : ■ !. i>!i'-.' 'lit. .::■ 



WHITEBAIT. 115 

ing ; trim the pieces of salt fish and remove the 
bones. Take another stewpan, and dissolve in it 
\ lb. of butter and i oz. of flour stirred into milk ; let 
the sauce simmer for ten minutes, then put in the 
potatoes, onions, fish, in order as before ; let it simmer 
another ten minutes, and serve. — Gogu^. 

Whitebait. 

Whitebait must be perfectly fresh when sent from 
the fishmonger, and they must be kept in iced water 
or salted water till they are to be cooked. Flour a 
cloth ; lift the whitebait out: with a skimmer, and place 
them on it ; dredge flour, and toss the fish in the 
cloth, but do not touch. Throw them on to a sieve, 
and shake it. Each fish must have a coating of flour ; 
but they must not cling together. The frying-pan 
must have plenty of boiling lard ; the whitebait must 
only be in it for two minutes. Lift them with the 
skimmer, letting the fat drain off. Dish on a fish- 
strainer (silver is best), and serve hot. 

Slices of brown bread and butter, sections of lemon, 
and a cayenne pepper bottle are arranged on a dish 
and handed round. 

Gudgeons. 

Choose them small, if you can choose ; dip them 
in milk, sprinkling a little salt and pepper on them ; 
coat them with flour, and fry in boiling lard ; dish 
them up in a heap on a napkin or silver drainer ; sur- 
round with fried parsley, and serve with bread and 

butter and sections of lemon. 

I 2 



ii6 CARP. 

Shad {or 'Alose'\ 

This is a sea fish which goes into fresh water, and 
is in best condition when taken in a river. 

It is very good wrapped in buttered paper and 
baked, mattre cC hotel butter being laid on it when the 
paper is taken off, and sorrel sauce served separately. 

If a large fish, it can be roasted, or bpiled in salted 
water ; or fillets may be cut, saiit^ in butter, ar- 
ranged on a dish in the usual way, with sauces as above. 

Shad with Sorrel. 

Score the fish in thwart lines the whole length; 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and grill on the grid- 
iron ; when done on one side, carefully turn on the 
other. Put a little butter from time to time ; serve a 
thick puree of sorrel in a sauce-boat. 

Carp. 

If it is possible to pour a glass of vinegar into the 
mouth of this fish as soon as caught, the taste of mud 
passes off through its skin, and the flesh is rendered 
firm. 

If this is not done, it must after cleaning be allowed 
to disgorge in salt, vinegar, and water. 

It may be split up and fried in a coating of flour ; 
or grilled with maitre d'hStel butter ; or stewed in a 
rich sauce i Fltalienne. 

The hard and soft roe can be taken out and mixed 
with the sauce, or served on croiitons as garnish. 



HERRING, 117 



Baked Carp. 

Clean your fish thoroughly ; stuff it with savoury 
force-meat, and sew it up to prevent the stuffing falling 
out. Brush it over with egg, and sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs, and drop a little melted butter over them* 
Lay it in a deep earthen dish ; take ^ pint of stock, 
a couple of sliced onions, some sweet herbs, ^ pint 
of claret or other French wine, with a teaspoonful of 
anchovy sauce. Put this with the fish, and bake for 
one hour. Strain the liquor from the fish, and thicken 
it with flour rolled in butter ; stir it frequently while 
boiling, and when done, add the juice of a lemon, half 
a teaspoonful of sugar, pepper and salt to taste. 
Serve the fish with the sauce round it, or separately in 
a butter-boat. 

Herring. 

Scale and clean the herring. Put them on the 
gridiron, which must be already heated, and broil. 

Prepare a sauce made with butter, flour, jnustard 
flour, a pinch of salt, and a little broth ; just warm 
on the fire, stirring so that it is smooth. Serve in a 
sauce-boat, and take care that the herring are not 
allowed to get cold before they go to table. 

Herring may be fried in breadcrumbs and eggs, or 
they may be boiled. 

Tartar sauce or mayonnaise sauce may take the 
place of mustard sauce. 

In Scotland it is not usual to serve sauce, but 
cold butter is handed round in its stead. 



ii8 WATER SOUCHE, 

Herring Balls. 

Partly broil three bloaters or red herrings ; remove 
the skin ; take all the meat from the bone ; add an 
equal quantity of mashed potato made from baked 
potatoes — that is, potatoes baked in their skins ; mix 
with cream or butter ; form into balls, egg and bread- 
crumb, and fry a golden brown. 

Pilchards. 

Pilchards are to be dressed like herring. There 
is so great a resemblance between the two fish that 
it may be useful to give the following test used by 
fishermen to distinguish between herring and pilchard 
on a dark night, which is to hold up the fish by the 
middle fin of the back. If it be a herring it balances, 
if a pilchard it goes down by the head. 

Water Souch^. 

Small fish, tench, perch, flounders, or slips are 
generally used for this dish. Make a fish stock by 
boiling a portion of the fish in water with peppercorns, 
carrots cut in strips, and some parsley. Strain this, 
and then simmer in it the rest of the fish, with a few 
slender strips of carrot and turnip ; when nearly done 
add a few sprigs of parsley. The souch^ is to be 
served in a deep dish, as it partakes of the nature of 
soup. All the stock in which it is boiled is to be 
poured over it. There must be enough for each guest 
to have four tablespoons with the helping of fish. 



EELS, 119 

Slices of brown bread and butter are to be handed 
round. 

Stuffed Haddock. 

Take a good-sized fresh haddock. Make a stuffing 
of lemon-peel, thyme, parsley, a little butter, bread- 
crumbs, pepper, and salt. Stuff the haddock with 
this, and bake it for three-quarters of an hour ; while 
baking pour over it some meat gravy. Do not put 
too much stuffing for the size of the fish. 

Eels. 

The eel is a very nutritious fish, and we have the 
high authority of the late Sir Henry Holland for 
saying that when properly cooked it is a very whole- 
some fish. 

Eels are always to be skinned, the head is to be 
cut off and thrown away. The eel, or the pieces of 
eel, are to be washed, dried, and then steeped for a 
short time in water with a little vinegar. 

Fried Eel. 

Skin and clean the eel, cut into pieces of two or 
three inches in length. Let them disgorge in water, 
then dry thoroughly. Braise in Chablis and water 
with carrots, onions, a bay leaf, fine herbs and season- 
ing. ^ 

When the eel is tender, take it out and let it 
drain. Strain the sauce in which it has cooked, and 
stir in some flour and butter, roll the pieces of eel in 



I20 EELS, 

this mixture, and let them get cold ; if the mixture is 
too thin, add an egg before taking it from the fire. 

Fry the pieces of eel in breadcrumbs and egg, and 
dish up on a napkin ; serve a tartar sauce, separately. 

Stewed Eel. 

Proceed as in fried eel, but when the eel has been 
stewed long enough, take the pieces cut, and keep 
them warm whilst the sauce is * reduced.' A little 
wine must be added, and if the flavour of onions is 
liked, some small onions may be stewed with the eel. 

All the grease must be carefully removed from 
the sauce. 

Collared Eel. 

Stew the eel till it is tender enough to enable you 
to take out the backbone, roll it up, and bind with 
tape, finish stewing in the same liquid, put it between 
two dishes with a weight on them. When cold 
remove the tape, boil down the liquid to make aspic 
jelly for a garnish, and send up a tartar sauce in a 
tureen. 

Eel a la Poulette. 

Skin and clean the eel ; get rid. of the head and 
tail ; cut into slices or joints of equal length and 
thickness ; wash them thoroughly, and remove any 
blood there may be at the joints of the spine. Put 
the eel and some button mushrooms into a stewpan 
in which some butter has been allowed to melt ; let 
it begin to fry, then dredge in a little flour (which has 



TROUT, 121 

been browned or dried) ; mix some broth and Chablis 
wine together, and stir in till it boils, then season with 
pepper and salt, fine herbs, and either small onions or 
Portugal onion cut small. Let the whole stew till 
the eel is tender; skim off the floating grease, and 
take the stew off* the fire for a short time. At the 
last moment introduce the yolk of two or three eggs 
and a squeeze of lemon. The eggs must give colour 
and flavour to the sauce ; they must not be allowed 
to boil and curdle in it. Serve with sippets of toast 
and slices of lemon as garnish. 

Fried Trout. 

Select small trout of nearly the same size. 

Clean, wash, and dry the fish ; roll lightly in 
flour, and fry in butter or clarified dripping, or 
lard. Let the fat be hot ; fry quickly to a delicate 
brown, and take up the instant they are done. Lay 
for an instant upon a hot folded napkin, to absorb 
whatever grease may cling to their speckled sides ; 
then range side by side in a heated dish, garnish, and 
send to table. Use no seasoning except salt, and 
that only when the fish are fried in lard or unsalted 
dripping. 

Oatmeal or breadcrumbs are by many persons 
preferred to flour. Garnish with fried parsley and 
slices of lemon cut in halves or quarters. 

Trout (au bleu). 

Take some freshly caught trout ; clean and wipe 
them ; put them into a saucepan, and pour over them 



122 TROUT. 

a pint of boiling vinegar, which immediately turns 
them blue. Add a pint of white wine (Chablis), and 
water till the fish is covered. Then put in four bay 
leaves, a good deal of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper- 
corns, an onion with four cloves stuck in, the peel of 
a lemon, half a head of celery, a carrot, a little bunch 
of parsley, and boil for a good quarter of an hour 
covered over. Arrange the trout on a dish, garnish 
with parsley, and serve with an appropriate sauce, or 
with oil and vinegar. 

Sea Trout. 

This fish should never be boiled. The proper 
mode of dressing it is to split it open, to season well 
with pepper and salt, and then to broil it A little 
mattre cTkdtel butter can be laid on it, or a tartar 
sauce may be served in a sauce tureen. 

All kinds of large trout are best cooked in this 
way. 

Croquettes of Trout k la Russe. 

Take the fillets of two large trout which have been 
boiled ; cut them into squares ; season with chopped 
chibbals, chervil, and lemon-juice ; set the pieces of 
trout in Villeroi sauce ; make them into croquettes 
the size of an egg. Give them two coats of bread- 
crumbs and egg ; fry carefully to a golden brown, and 
dish up with fried parsley in the middle. 

Fish with its own Sauce. 

Boil one haddock in a quart of water for half an 
hour. Then add a pint of milk, and boil for a quarter 



SMELTS. 123 

of an hour. Take out the haddock and cut it in 
pieces. 

Mix two tablespoonsful of baked flour, and a little 
pepper and salt with the liquid, and put it on to boil for 
five minutes. Put in the pieces of fish, without any 
bone, and some chopped parsley before dishing up. 

The liquid is stronger if the bones of the fish are 
previously taken out, and stewed in it by themselves 
for some time. 

Fish Pudding. 

(Scandinavian Recipe.) 

The fish used is generally pike in Sweden, cod in 
Norway. It is cut in small pieces freed from bone, and 
chopped up very fine. A custard is made with eggs, 
milk, flour, and butter. The fish is stirred in ; the 
whole is seasoned with pepper and salt, and is steamed 
in a mould for two hours. 

Dutch sauce, lobster, or crayfish sauce is to be 
served with it. 

Smelts. 

As smelts are not opened, but cleaned through 
the gills, it is the more important that they should be 
perfectly fresh ; but if the head is cut off, the cleans- 
ing can be repeated. 

Dip in egg and breadcrumbs or oatmeal ; fry, 
dry on paper before the fire ; place on a napkin, two 
and two at right angles, and send up lemon cut in 
sections to be handed round. 



124 LOBSTER. 

Stewed Smelts. 

Place in a china fire-proof dish ; pour over them a 
sauce made with fish or veal stock, chopped onions, 
capers and fine herbs, and a little Chablis wine ; let 
them cook in the oven till tender, and serve in the 
same dish. Always cut off the head for this mode of 
dressing smelts. 

Lobster Curry. 

Pick the meat from the shell of a lobster, and 
cut it into square pieces ; fry two onions of a pale 
brown in one ounce of butter, stir in one tablespoonful 
of curry powder and half a pint of medium stock, 
and simmer till it thickens, then put in the lobster ; 
stew the whole for about twenty minutes, stirring 
occasionally, and just before sending to table add the 
juice of half a lemon. Serve boiled rice with it, as 
for other curries. 

Lobster Cutlets. 

Select young and delicate lobsters, or use prawns ; 
or even very small crabs of two or three inches in 
diameter. 

Pick out the meat, and put the cream and the 
coral in a basin apart. Cut the meat up as small as 
possible, and then pound in a mortar till the stringy 
lobster is beaten into a smooth paste ; then incorporate 
the lobster-cream and the coral, season with pepper 
and salt, and add either thick cream or butter rubbed 
to a cream. Form into cutlets, and use the end of a 



SHRIMPS, 125 

claw to simulate the bone of the cutlet ; dip in bread- 
crumbs and eggs twice, and fry a golden brown. 
Heat a skewer red hot, and mark each cutlet so as to 
give it the look of being broiled. Send up on a 
napkin, and serve a mayonnaise sauce in a tureen. 

If there is not enough of the lobster paste for the 
number of cutlets desired, introduce a little panada, 
or a little ground-rice mixture ; the lobster paste is 
rich enough to bear the introduction of the simple 
cereal mixture, but the two must be so completely 
mixed that the expedient is not perceived. 

Sauce for Lobster Cutlets. 

Make some stock with the bones of fish ; a wine- 
glass of this stock is to be seasoned with Maille 
vinegar, pepper, salt, and mustard flour. Mix in an 
equal quantity of single cream ; warm in a bain-marie, 
or milk saucepan. The taste of broth, vinegar, and 
mustard must be perceived, but not to an exaggerated 
degree. If the dish is not for a maigre day, veal 
broth may be used in place of fish stock. 
• 

Shrimps. 

There is an art even in the apparently simple 
process of boiling shrimps. To be really good, 
shrimps must be boiled alive. The shrimps are 
placed in nets and plunged into water that is fiercely 
on the boil. The putting in of these shrimps lowers 
the temperature of the water for a moment. The 
experienced shrimp-boiler therefore heats the poker 



126 STURGEON. 

and stirs up the water in which the shrimps are placed, 
in order that the temperature of the water shall be 
kept up to the boiling point whilst the shrimps are 
being cooked. When the shrimps are done they are 
suspended in nets in the sea for a short time. — Frank 
Bucklatid, 

Breakfast Fish. 

Take 2 ozs. of butter, a teaspoonful of mustard 
flour, a little cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon ; work 
it into a smooth paste ; pull the cold fish into flakes, 
and half fill some shells (scallop shells) or little china 
imitations ; lay the mixture over the fish and strew 
with breadcrumbs ; heat in the oven or before the 
fire. 

Hake. 

This is an excellent fish, though its merits are 
not generally known ; it is be^t cut in fillets and 
fried in batter, after being treated like fillets of sole 
a la Orly. It is also good curried. 



Sturgeon. 

It is said that a good cook can obtain beef, mutton, 
pork, or chicken from the flesh of the sturgeon. 

The best way to dress this fish is to cut fillets 
about i^ inches thick, and to stew them in good stock, 
and serve with sauce piquante round them ; or to 
make the fish into quenelles, and serve with mattre 
d hotel sauce. It may also be dressed as for * Cr^me 
de Volaille ' on umigre days. 









r. 



OYSTERS. 127 

Lampreys. 

After the lampreys have been cleaned thoroughly 
in salt and water, rub them over gently with mixed 
white spices, and let them remain twenty-four hours. 
Then put them to stew quite gently with the moisture 
that has run from them : if not sufficient to cover 
them, add a little good stock ; when nearly done stir 
a glass of port wine into the stewpan. Small lamperns 
are stewed in the same way, after being cleaned in 
salt and boiling water. — F. Buckland. 

Oysters. 

Oysters should always be eaten the instant they 
are opened. They are served often before the soup, 
in the first course of a dinner, and are arranged 
usually in as many plates as there are guests at the 
table. 

In England oysters are served in their flat shells ; 
they are accompanied by brown bread and butter, 
pepper and vinegar or quarters of lemon. 

In France they are served in their deep shell, in 
their own liquor. 

Oyster Kromeskis. 

Parboil a dozen oysters in their own liquor, remove 
their beards, strain the liquor, and cut up the oysters 
into small dice ; melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, 
stir in a pinch of flour, add the oyster liquor and the 
minced oysters, salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch 
or two of chopped parsley ; take the saucepan off* the 



128 OYSTERS, 

fire and stir in the yolk of one egg with the juice of 
half a lemon. When the mixture is quite cold, divide 
it into twelve portions, cut some slices of parboiled 
fat bacon as thin as possible to the size of i^ ins. by 
2^ ins. ; wrap each portion tightly in a piece of bacon. 
When they are all done, dip them in batter, and fry 
them in plenty of hot lard to a light brown colour. 
Drain well from fat in front of the fire, and serve 
with fried parsley. 

Oyster Loaves. 

Remove a slice from the top of some small rolls 
the shape of a loaf, scoop out the crumb from the 
loaves, and fill them with some oysters just slightly 
stewed, with butter or cream, and a portion of bread- 
crumbs ; replace the tops of the loaves and bake till 
crisp. They may be glazed on the outside with 
beaten egg, if preferred. 

Oysters and Macaroni. 

Lay sonie stewed macaroni in a deep dish ; put 
upon it a thick layer of oysters, bearded, and seasoned 
with cayenne pepper and grated lemon rind ; add a 
small teacupful of cream ; strew breadcrumbs over the 
top and brown it in a pretty quick oven. Serve hot, 
with a piquante sauce. 

Stewed Oysters. 

A pint of oysters will be sufficient for a moderate- 
sized dish, but twice as many will be required for 



OYSTERS, 129 

a large one. Let them be very carefully opened, 
and not mangled in the slightest degree ; wash 
them free from grit in their own strained liquor, lay 
them in a very clean stewpan ; strain the liquor a 
second time, pour it on them, and heat them slowly 
in it. When they arc just beginning to simmer, lift 
them out with a slice or a bored wooden spoon, and 
take off the beards ; add to the liquor a \ pint of 
good cream, a pinch of cayenne, and a little salt ; and 
when it boils, stir in from i to 2 ozs. of good butter, 
smoothly mixed with a large teaspoonful of flour ; 
continue to stir the sauce until these are perfectly 
blended with it ; then put in the oysters, and let 
them remain by the side of the fire until they are 
very hot. They require so little cooking that, if kept 
for four or five minutes nearly simmering, they will 
be ready for table, and they are quickly hardened by 
being allowed to boil, or by too much stewing. A 
little lemon-juice should be stirred quickly 'into the 
stew just as it is taken from the fire. Serve them 
with pale fried sippets. 



Oyster Toast. 

Beard and pound a few oysters in a mortar ; when 
they form a paste add a little cream, and season with 
pepper ; get ready some small pieces of toast ; spread 
the oyster paste on them, and place them for a few 
minutes in an oven to warm. A little finely chopped 
lemon-peel may be thrown upon the tops. 

K 



I30 OYSTERS, 



Oyster Vol-au-vent. 

Make a puff paste \vith tthree-quarters of a pound 
of dry sifted flour, three-quarters of a pound of fresh 
butter, the yolk of an egg, the strained juice of a 
lemon ; beat the ^gg first atone, then with a gill of 
cold water, add the lemon-juice ; put the flour into a 
bowl, stir in the liquid, and make it into a soft paste, 
touching it as little ^as possible ; squeeze the butter 
in a cloth, slightly sprinkle fhe paste with flour, lay 
on the paste, make a 'hole in the centre, put in the 
butter, turn ov-er tihe edges, amd roll out four times ; 
let the paste stand in 'a cold place for an hour ; roll 
out two or three times, then roll it the last time 
I \ inches thick ; press ^a vol-^u-vent tin cutter quickly 
down, so as to take 'off the Tough edges, and cut it in 
the size and shape required. Make a circular incision 
with a penknife, a quarter of an inch deep and half 
an inch from the edge ; phace it on a baking-tin, and 
bake in a hot oven for three-quarters of an hour. 
With a penknife *take out the centre carefully, remove 
the soft paste, and fill the vacancy with oysters pre- 
pared as follows : — Beard three dozen oysters ; put 
the liquor into a saucepan with the beards, a grain of 
white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the thin rind of half 
a lemon, and the strained juice ; boil up ; knead 
3 ozs. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, 
and stir in ; boil till it is reduced to a quarter of a 
pint ; strain ; add the oysters ; simmer six minutes ; 
stir in a gill of very thick cream ; fill the vol-au vent 
and serve on a neatly folded napkin. 



OYSTERS. 131 

Oyster Sausages. 

Beard, rinse well in their strained liquor, and 
mince, but not finely, three dozen and a half of oysters, 
and mix them with 10 ozs. of fine breadcrumbs and 
I o ozs. of beef suet, chopped extremely small ; add a 
salt-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper, or less than 
half the quantity of cayenne, twice as much pounded 
mace, and the third of a small nutmeg, grated ; 
moisten the whole with two unbeaten eggs, or with 
the yolks onlv of three, and a dessert-spoonful of the 
whites. When these ingredients have been well 
worked together and are perfectly blended, set the 
mixture in a cool place for two or three hours before 
it is used ; make it into the form of small sausages or 
sausage cakes ; flour and fry them in butter of a fine 
light brown, or throw them into boiling water for 
three minutes, drain, and let them become cold ; dip 
them into egg and breadcrumbs, and broil them gently 
until they are lightly coloured. A small bit should 
be cooked and tasted before the whole is put aside, 
that the seasoning may be heightened if required. 
The sausages thus made are very good. 

Observe : the fingers should be well floured for 
making up these sausages. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Open the oysters carefully ; give them a scald in 
their own liquor ; wash them in it free from grit, and 
beard them neatly. Butter the scallop shells, and.shake 
some fine breadcrumbs over them ; nil them with 

K 2 



132 OYSTERS. 

alternate layers of oysters, crumbs of bread and fresh 
butter cut into small bits ; pour in the oyster liquor 
after it has been strained ; put a thick, smooth layer 
of breadcrumbs on the top ; moisten them with 
clarified butter ; place the shells in a Dutch oven 
before a clear fire, and turn them till the tops are 
brown all over and all round — a rich golden brown. 
Serve very hot. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil it 
with the beards, and lemon-peel. In the meantime 
throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. 
Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with 
them, and as much butter mixed with a little milk as 
will make sauce enough ; but first rub a little flour 
in the butter. Set them over the fire, and stir all the 
time, and when hot, take them off and keep the sauce- 
pan near the fire, but not on it, for if done too much 
the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, 
and serve. A little cream is a great improvement 

Observe : the oysters will thin the sauce, so put 
butter and flour accordingly. 

Oyster Omelette. 

1 2 oysters, if large ; 24 oysters, if small ; 

6 eggs ; 

4 tablespoonsful of butter ; 

I cup of milk ; 

Chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. 

Chop the oysters very fine ; beat the yolks and, 



OYSTERS. 133 

whites of the eggs separately — the white until it 
stands in a heap. Put three tablespoonsful of butter 
in a frying-pan, and heat while you are mixing the 
omelette. Stir the milk into a deep dish with the yolk, 
and season. Next put in the chopped oysters, beating 
vigorously as you add them gradually. When they 
are thoroughly incorporated, pour in the spoonsful of 
melted butter ; finally, whip in the whites lightly, and 
with as few strokes as possible. If the butter is hot 
— and it ought to be, that the omelette may not stand 
uncooked — put the mixture into the pan. Do not 
stir it, but when it begins to stiffen or * to set,* slip a 
broad-bladed, round-pointed dinner knife round the 
sides, and cautiously under the omelette, that the 
butter may reach every part. As soon as the centre 
is fairly ' set,' turn out into a hot dish. Lay the latter 
bottom upward over the frying-pan, which must be 
turned upside down dexterously. This- brings the 
browned side of the omelette uppermost. This 
omelette is delicious and easily made. 

Oyster Patties. 

Line some small patty pans with fine puff" paste, 
rolled thin, and, to preserve their form when baked, 
put a bit of bread into each ; lay on the covers, pinch 
and trim the edges, and send the patties to a brisk 
oven. Plump and beard from two to three dozen 
oysters ; mix ver>' smoothly a teaspoonful of flour with 
an ounce of butter, put them into a clean saucepan, 
shake them round over a gentle fire and let them 
simmer for two or three minutes ; throw in a little 



134 OYSTERS, 

salt, pounded mace and cayenne ; then add, by slow 
degrees, two or three spoonsful of rich cream, give 
these a boil and pour in the strained liquor of the 
oysters ; next lay in the oysters and keep at the point 
of boiling for a couple of minutes. Raise the covers 
from the patties, take out the bread, fill them with 
oysters and their sauce and replace the covers. It 
is an improvement to stew the beards with a strip 
or two of lemon-peel in a little good veal stock for 
a quarter of an hour, then to strain and add it to the 
sauce. 

The oysters should be once or twice divided. 
The patties should be made small, with a thin crust, 
and well filled with the oysters and their sauce. The 
substitution of fried crumbs for the covers will vary 
them very agreeably. 

Oysters a la Villeroi. 

Blanch some large oysters ; warm them in a very 
thick Villeroi sauce ; take them out one by one, and 
be sure that they are well coated with this sauce ; 
dip them twice in breadcrumbs and ^gg, fry them ; 
dish them up in a pyramid on a napkin, and garnish 
with fried parsley. 

Curried Oysters. 

Open six dozen oysters, leaving them in their 
own liquor, then cut two medium-sized onions into 
small dice, and sautes in a stewpan with an ounce 
of butter ; when done, mix it in two teaspoonsful of 
curry powder and one of curry paste, then add the 



OYSTERS, 135 

oysters, with their liquor, and keep stirring over the 
fire until the oysters become enveloped in a thick 
sauce, when turn them out upon your dish and serve 
with rice separately. 



Devilled Oysters. 

Open the oysters in their deep shell, season them 
with a small piece of butter, a little cayenne, salt, and 
lemon-juice ; place them on a gridiron over a brisk 
fire and broil them for about three minutes. Serve 
with bread and butter. 

Oyster Forcemeat. 

Open a dozen oysters, take off the beards, strain 
their liquor and rinse ; grate four ounces of the crumb 
of a stale loaf into fine light crumbs, mince the oysters, 
but not too small, and mix them with the bread ; 
add an ounce and a half of good butter cut into 
minute bits, the grated rind of half a small lemon, 
a small saltspoonful of pounded mace, some cayenne, 
a little salt, and a large teaspoonful of parsley ; mix 
these ingredients well and work them together with 
the unbeaten yolk of one egg and a little of the 
oyster liquor, the remainder of which can be added 
to the sauce which usually accompanies this force- 
meat. 

Oysters, i dozen ; breadcrumbs, 4 ounces ; butter, 
i^ ounces ; rind of half a small lemon ; mace, half a 
saltspoonful ; some cayenne and salt ; minced parsley, 
one large teaspoonful ; yolk of i egg ; oyster liquor, i 



136 OYSTERS. 

dessert-spoonful ; rolled into bails and fried from seven 
to ten minutes, or poached from five to six minutes. 

Observe : in -this forcemeat the flavour of the 
oysters should prevail entirely over that of all the 
other ingredients which are mixed with them. 

A Finer Oyster Forcemeat. 

Pound the preceding forcemeat to the smoothest 
paste, with the addition ^nly of half an ounce of 
fresh butter, should it be sufficiently dry to allow of 
it. It is remarkably good when thus prepared, and 
may be poached or fried into balls for soups or made 
dishes, or used to stuff* boned fowls, or the breasts of 
boiled turkeys, with equally good effect. 

Oyster Kabobs. 

4 

Blanch the oysters in two waters, and then drain 
them. 

Put in a stewpan some chopped onions, mushrooms, 
and parsley, with butter and a little flour ; warm the 
oysters in this mixture, and stir in yolks of eggs to 
make the mixture firm enough to adhere to the 
oyster. String about 6 oysters on each silver skewer, 
the sauce adhering to the oysters and setting around 
them ; treat with breadcrumbs and eggs, so that the 
skewers look as if passed through a sausage, and fry 
a golden brown. Dish up on a napkin. 

Oysters au Parmesan. 

Butter a shallow dish, and strew with bread — - 
crumbs which have been browned. Lay the oyster* 



OYSTERS. 137 

on the breadcrumbs, strew some chopped parsley 
and grated Parmesan over them, and some more 
crumbs. Pour in half a glass of Chablis, and put 
them in the oven to brown. A little warm butter 
may be administered whilst in the oven. 

Fried Oysters. 

(American Recipe.) 

Use for frying the largest and best oysters you 
can find. Take them carefully from the liquor ; 
lay them in rows upon a clean cloth, and press 
another lightly upon them to absorb the moisture. 
Have ready several beaten eggs, and in another dish 
some irusks crushed fine. In the frying-pan heat 
enough butter to cover the oysters entirely. Dip 
each oyster first in the tgg^ then into the crushed 
rusks, rolling it over that it may become completely 
encrusted. Drop them carefully into the frying-pan, 
and fry quickly to a light brown. If the butter is hot 
enough, they will soon be ready to take out. Test it 
by putting in one oyster before you risk the rest. 
Do not let them lie in the pan an instant after they 
are done. Serve dry, and let the dish be warm. A 
chafing dish is best. 

Oysters en Papillotes. - 

Make a paste with cold mashed potatoes, flour 
and butter. Roll it out and cut into lozenge-shaped 
pieces. Put thriee oysters on each bit of paste, roll it 
up, and bake a light brown in the oven. 

The roll must not be too large ; serve on a napkin 
very hot. 



138 FRENCH NAMES OF FISH, 

To assist the reader in giving correct names to the 
different kinds of fish, a series of coloured plates has 
been prepared ; but these illustrations give the shape 
and colour only : they cannot attempt to give the 
relative size of the fish in so small a space. The 
weights of some fish and the sizes of others are there- 
fore given. 

Plate I. — Salmon, 7 lbs. to 50 lbs.; Common Trout, ^Ib. to 
5 lbs. ; Sea Trout, \ lb. to 5 lbs. ; Grayling, \ lb. to 3 lbs. ; Carp, 2 lbs. 
to 10 lbs. 

Plate II. — Turbot, i lb. to 20 lbs.; Brill, lib. to 10 lbs.; Plaice, 
i lb to 5 lbs. 

Plaie III. — Skate, 5 lbs. to 40 lbs.; Sole, |lb. to 5 lbs. ; Flounder^ 
2 ozs. to I lb. 

Plate IV. — Cod, 4 lbs. to 25 lbs.; Pollack, 3 lbs. to 18 lbs. ; 
Haddock, \ lb. to 5 lbs. ; Whiting, \ lb. to 2 lbs. ; Smelt, 7 . inches in 
length. 

Plate V. — Sprats, Herring, Whitebait; John Dory, lib. to 
7 lbs. ; Gurnard, \ lb. to 6 lbs. 

Plate VI. — Sturgeon, 10 lbs. to4cwt.; Red Mullet, |lb. to ij 
lbs. ; Grey Mullet, I lb. to 5 lbs. ; Pilchards. 

Plate VII.— Perch, Jib. to 3 lbs.; Tench, ^ lb. to 5 lbs.; Pike, 
5 lbs. to 20 lbs.; Char, 9 to 18 inches long ; Shad, 2 lbs. to 7 lbs. 

Plate VIII. — Mackerel, \ lb. to 2 lbs.; Sea Bream, \ lb. to 3 lbs.; 
Eel, l^lb. to 3 lbs. ; Lam pern, 12 to 15 inches long; Lamprey, 20 to 
28 inches long ; Conger Eel, 5 lbs. to 25 lbs. 

List of Fish most commonly used, with their 

French names. 

Brill = Barbue. 

Carp = Carpe. 

Char = Ombre Chevalier. 

Cod = Cabillavid. 

Dab=Limande. 

Eel = Anguille. 



FRENCH NAMES OF FISH. 139 

• 

Flounder = Carrelet. 

Grayling = Ombre. 

Gurnard = Gournal or Grondin. 

Haddock = Merluche. 

Herring= Hareng. 

John Dory = Poisson de St Pierre. 

Lampern = Lamproie de Riviere. 

Lamprey =Lamproie de Mer. 

Mackerel = Maquereau. 

Mullet (r^</) = Rouget. 

Perch =Perche. 

Pike=Brochet. 

Plaice = Plie. 

Pollack = Merlan jaune. 

Pilchard = Pdlamide. Sardine. 

Salmon = Saumon. 

Sardine = Sardine. 

Shad = Alose. 

Sea Bream = Br^me. 

Sea Trout = Truite saumonde. 

Skate = Raie. 

Smelt = Eperlan. 

Sole = Sole. 

Sprat=Melet or Esprot. 

Sturgeon = Esturgeon. 

Tench = Tanche. 

Trout ^=Truite. 

Turbot = Turbot. 

Whiting = Merlan. 

Whitebait = Blanchaille. 



TABLE OF FISH. 

,I,LE SHOWING THE SEASONS WHEN SEA FlSH AKE 
Aofe.— The sign x dencMeB Ihe nmniha durinB which tin 



Bib 

Bream, Sea . 
Cat-fish or ^ 
Cod 

Conger . 

Dab 

Dor,-Fisi[ 



Joi 



Eel 

Flounder 

Gar-pike oi 

Gurnard, 

Gurnard o 
Gurnard, t 

Haddock 



Mullet, Grev 
Mullet, Red 
Pilchard 



Mar. Ap.il May Juue July Aug. Sept. Oct, 



« • » 



in 



:'K- 



cal. 



•'•ctl ; 

• »iii.irv 

ious in 

MKrvl as 

it is not 
y Jews. 

ill S''aM)ns. 
:■ Latclu'l. 
Vn excellent 

H)k fl^h better 



od herrings from 
I'Vom lA>ch I'vne 



vonshire. 
., lull very oily : von- 
oulv to turbot if fried or 



ver j)ro(luces much oil. 
Kni^land, from LandV Knd to 

ast. 
erv much soiij^ht after. 
Mostly exported to Roman ('ath'»lic 
)uld try them, 
iways in the market 



4 



TABLE OF FISH. 
Taulk showing the Seasons v 



«™.,P.H 


Jan. 


ret.. 


Mh- 


1(H1 


M=, 


,.„ 


July 


Aug 


fi^p, 


11 


Skate .... 


X 


, 


), 


» 






> 




, 


•i 


Salmon .... 




K 


.. 


X 


, 


. 


^ 


X 






SCAIl OK liOKSE-MACKli- 






















SllAl) .... 

Smelt or Sf.tRi.iM; . 


■;■ 




■■■ 


; 


1 


i 


1 




-■ 


: 


Sole .... 


" 


■;■ 


■;■ 


" 


' 




** 


" 


* 


i\ 


SxilRliKON 


; 


': 


I 


.". 


; 


; 


^ 


; 






TORSK .... 
VVeevku oh STING-nSIf 


> 


" 


:;: 












^v 


Whitebait . 
WniTiNO 


"x 


« 


» 


.:. 


" 


; 


^ 


« 


-\ 


Wrasse. . . . 












- 


x 


- 


■ \ 


CocKi.h;.s 


y 


K 


, 


, 






« 


„ 


1 


Crabs .... 


>■ 


>■ 


K 


k 


» 


» 


« 


« 


^ 


Crayfish 


... 


















Lobsters 


... 


... 








... 






.-- 


WUSSEIS 
OVS-lTtRS 


' 


^ 


^ 


;; 








; 


2 


Prawns .... 

PERIWINKLE.1. 

Scoi.i.or!i 
Shkimw 




I 


.". 


I 


^ 


:;: 


^: 


" 


;i- 


Whelks 




... 






> 


■< 


■ 




_ 



TABLE OF FISH. 143 

FIT FOR THE Table. — Continued. 




X 

X 
X 



Best in November, but a palatable fish at all times except May and 
August. 

Dutch fish in market from November to February. Rod fish can- 
not be sold during net close time. 

Sold mostly in Whitechapel. It has spines along the sides. 

Periodically in the market. Much esteemed by the Americans. 

Dutch fish from November to March. 

In season all the year round ; best when about half roed. 

Caught principally at Inverness and in Thames estuary. Good 

dried. 
Occasionally plentiful in warm months. 
Have various names in various localities. 
Best when half roed. From North Sea and Dutch coast and off 

Dover. 
A northern fish ; not many in London markets. 
Known in Whitechapel as Spitalfields weevers. Good if skinned 

and fried. 
Mostly the fry of either sprats or herrings, according to locality. 
* The Chicken of the Sea. ' Best in December, January, and 

February ; but good in May and June. 
During the summer good stewed. 



Mostly eaten by poor of Midland counties. Excellent pickled or in 

patties. 
All crabs under 4^-inches across the broadest part of the shell, crabs 

in roe, and soft -shell crabs, are illegal. Best in the warm months. 
Mo-tly from Cornwall, Jersey, and Channel Islands. Much es- 
teemed in France. 
Any lobster measuring less than 8 inches from the tip of beak to 

end of tail is illegal. Homard (French). Best in warm months. 
Sold largely for bait, also as food. 
Close lime for deep-sea oysters, 15th June to 4th August. Close 

time for natives and seconds, 14th May to 4th August. No close 

time for American or Portuguese oysters. 
Becoming scarce and dear. 

In season all the year round. Finest from Holland and Scotland. 
Caught off south-west of England. 
There are two kinds : the • Bunting,* brown colour, no beak, and 

the * Red shrimp, ' with a saw beak. Obtainable nearly every 

month. 
Large numbers sold in the London streets ; used also extensively 

for bait for the long- line fishermen. 



BEEF, 



CHAPTER XV. 
BEEF, 

Sirloin of Beef. 

This joint is generally roasted as a whole, and a very 
large whole it is. 

A better plan is to take out the fillet, and to use 
it as a separate dish. 

Yorkshire pudding and horseradish sauce are to 
be served with roast beef. 

Ribs of Beef. 

This joint can be roasted whole, or it can be boned 
and rolled before roasting, and the bones can be pu^ 
in the stock-pot for the commoner kind of broth. O 
the long end can be sawn off, put in salt for a few day 
and either boiled or braised. The ends of bone to ^ 
slipped out, and the meat pressed till cold. 

Beef k la Flamande. 

Braise a piece of brisket of beef in the usual ^ 
Add to the sauce just before serving carrots, tur 
onions, lettuces, sprouts or cabbage, mushrooms 
a few stuffed tomatoes, all of which have been 



BEEF, 145 

fully prepared according to the directions for each 
vegetable. Time required for braising about five 
hours. 

The piece of beef is sent up in a large dish, its 
sauce is poured round, and the vegetables are placed 
in little separate heaps. The sprouts must look green, 
and each heap must be neatly arranged. It is not 
necessary to provide all the above vegetables ; four 
kinds will be enough. 

Beef k la Mode. 

Take a piece of the silver side, or the piece called 

fillet by the butcher, and put it in a braising pan with 

a calfs foot cut up, some rind of bacon, a fried onion 

^ fried carrot, some fine herbs, and a glass of wine, 01 

half a glass of brandy mixed with water, a pinch of salt 

and two pinches of sugar. Cover very close, and let it 

*^^aise for from six to eight hours, shaking the pan 

frooi time to time so that the meat may not adhere to 

^^e bacon which is placed at the bottom of the pan, 

'^troducing a little hot stock from time to time. 

The piece of beef must be well beaten before 
*"^ising, and square slips of bacon may be thrust into 
'^ meat. 

Brisket of Beef. 

Trim a good-sized brisket, which is all the better 
being slightly salted for twenty-four hours. 
I^ut it in the braising pan with enough weak broth 
-Over. Let it simmer for at least five hours. Take 
'Ut, and place in the oven whilst you reduce the 
ce. Prepare a garnish of vegetables to be served 

L 



146 BEEF. 

separately. When the beef comes out of the dining- 
room, put it on a dish which will admit of another 
dish and heavy weights being placed on it ; and the. 
pressed beef is even better cold than hot The top 
must be glazed. 

The reason why vegetables must not be braised 
with the beef is, that the beef would soon turn sour. 

Collared Beef. 

Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow 
beef, but not too fat. Lay it in a dish with salt ancL 
a little saltpetre, turn and rub in every day for ai. 
week ; keep it in a cool place. Then remove all bone 
and gristle, and the skin of the inside part, and cover 
it with the following seasoning : cut small a hand- 
ful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, mar- 
joram, pepper, salt, and allspice (and, if liked, a little 
garlic). Roll the meat up 2^ tight as possible, and 
bind it first with a cloth, and then with tape or pack- 
thread. Put the beef on in plenty of water, and let 
it boil gently seven or eight hours. When done, put 
a heavy weight on while it is hot, without undoing the 
cloth, &c. It will, when cold, be of an oval shape. 
It should then be glazed on the outside. 

Fillet of Beef. 

The fillet here spoken of is the under part of the 
sirloin ; not the piece sold as fillet by butchers. 

It can be dressed whole, or in slices as an entree ; 
but as in England it is not sold by itself, the sirloin 
must be purchased, and the fillet being taken out, th^ 



BEEF, 147 

upper part of the sirloin will be roasted by itself, after 
being neatly trimmed. The fillet can be roasted and 
sent up with its own gravy ; or with a garnish of 
macaroni stewed in gravy ; or with a garnish of 
stufifed tomatoes ; or with fried potatoes, cut in various 
shap>^s ; or with croquettes of potatoes or of hominy. 
If a dish with more flavour is desired, the fillet 
can be put in a pickle of oil, tomato, and onion juice 
for twenty-four hours, this pickle being poured over 
it several times, and the fillet allowed to stand in the 
prep>aration. 

Fillet as an Entree. 

The fillet must be divided into slices about half an 
inch thick when dressed. They must be neatly 
trimmed at the edges, and saut^. They are to be 
dressed in a circle, and in the centre must be placed 
eitKer olives which have been stoned and fried, or 
sma.ll pieces of potato fried ; the gravy from the fillets 
is tHe proper sauce round ; a little maitre d'hotel butter 
may be laid on each fillet. 

Braised Fillet of Beef. 

It is impossible sometimes to keep even this fillet 
till it is tender enough to roast. Then braising is the 
means to obtain a tender dish. 

Remove the fat from a fillet and trim it neatly ; 

line the stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, and 

l^fadozen onions. Place the fillet on these, with 

n™ore bacon on the top, put in a bunch of fine herbs, 

^"d enough bVoth to surround and keep moist the 

L 2 



148 BEEF. 

whole. A little red wine or a tablespoonful of 
brandy may be mixed with the broth. Cover tight, 
and braise in an oven (or with hot coals on the lid of 
the stewpan) for four hours. The stewpan. must be of 
a size only large enough to admit the fillet and the 
linings. Take out the fillet, ascertain if the sauce 
wants reducing, and if so simmer it awhile ; but if 
only a small quantity of broth is used, the sauce will 
be ready when the fiUeft is done* 

Tournedos of Beef. 

Cut a cooked fillet of "beef into slices half an inch 
thick, and cut slices of bread the same size and thick- 
ness ; fry the bread in fat taken from the stock-po'V 
and warm the slices x)f beef (warm, not boil) in go< 
gravy ; arrange in alternate slices ; fill the centre wi ^ 
a garnish of olives, or flageolets, and serve a sha^ 
sauce in a tureen. 

Chateaubriand of Beef. 

This is made with slices of fillets of beef, but es 
two slices must be only slightly severed in the mid* 
making a sort of bivalve, into which are introduce 
small lump of marrow, a sprinkle of salt and caye 
pepper, and a few shreds of onion. The beef sides 
then pressed together ; a little butter or oil is rub 
on the outside, and the fillets are grilled from 
minutes to a quarter of an hour, care being t 
not to let the marrow ooze out of the fillets. \ 
very hot, with a squeeze of lemon in the gra\y. 



BEEF. 149 



Beef Steak Pudding. 

^bout 2 lbs. of tender rump steak must be freed 

fraiTn sinew, cut into pieces of moderate size, and a 

feiv^ bits of fat rolled in the thin pieces of beef ; salt 

anci pepper, and aa onion chopped small are to be 

adei ^d. 

IMake a paste with \ lb. of beef suet, i \ lbs. of flour, 
a p> i nch of salt, and half a pint of milk (or water) ; 
ther suet must be chopped very fine and freed from 
skixi. The paste must be quite smooth and even. 

Line a basin with this paste, fill with the pieces of 

be^f*, pour in a small quantity of broth,, cover with 

paLste, close the edges, flour your pudding-cloth, tie 

ov^r the basin, boil for four hours. Take off" the 

padding-cloth, pin a napkin neatly round the basin, 

and send up on a round dish. Veal may be used 

instead of beef, or half rabbit and half beef When 

oysters are in season, it is a great improvement to put 

in half a dozen. 

Rump Steak.. 

Cut the steak thick, at least three-quarters of an 
^^ch in thickness. As tender meat is not always to 
^ had, if the piece you have purchased is doubtful, 
*^y it on a clean cloth, take a blunt heavy carving 
l^nife if you have not a steak mallet, and hack closely 
"Om one end to the other ; then turn and repeat the 
process upon the other side. The knife should be so 
olunt you cannot cut with it, and the strokes not the 
^^xth part of an inch apart. Wipe, but do not wash. 



1 50 BEEF. 

and lay on a buttered gridiron over a clear fire, turn- 
ing very often as it begins to drip. Do not season 
until it is done, which will be in about twelve minutes 
if the fire is good, and the cook attentive. Rub your 
hot dish with a split raw onion, lay in the steak, salt 
and pepper on both sides, and put a liberal lump of 
butter upon the top. Then put on a hot cover, and 
let it stand five minutes to draw the juices to the sur- 
face before it is eaten. A gridiron fitting under the 
grate is better than any other. If a gridiron is not at 
hand, rub a little butter upon the bottom of a hot, 
clean frying-pan, put in the meat, set over a bright 
fire, and turn frequently. This will not be equal to a 
steak cooked upon a gridiron, but it is infinitely pre- 
ferable to the same fried. 



Beefsteak Rolls. 

Cut a beefsteak quite thick, then split it open 
lengthwise, and cut in strips of four or five inches 
wide ; rub over the inside with an onion, and in each 
strip roll up a thin slice of bread, buttered on both 
sides ; stick two cloves in the bread, and sprinkle 
some salt, pepper, celery seed (or thin slices of celery- 
stick), and put into the gravy. Tie each roll with a 
thread ; dredge it with flour, and fry in hot butter. 
Then put these, when a delicate brown, into a stew- 
pan, with only enough broth to stew them. Make a 
nice thickened gravy from the liquor in which the 
steaks were stewed, and serve with the rolLs, very hot. 
The rolls should stew very slowly two hours. VeaV 
or mutton is also very good prepared in this way. 



BEEF, 151 

Steered Rump Steak. 

A rump steak should be cut from a rump which 
has been hung, but must not be cut till wanted. It 
should be two inches thick, 4 lbs. for eight people ; 
and much of the fat is not to be kept on it. Let 
the steak brown, not bum^ on both sides in boiling 
dripping or butter, either in the frying-pan or in a 
shallow stewing-pan. Mix some flour and broth, and fry 
Sonne sliced onion, carrot, and turnip ; and let the steak 
stew for three to four hours, the broth not quite 
cov^ering the steak. The stewing-pan must have a 
hollow cover, and hot water or charcoal must be put 
in this if cooked on a hot plate, but the stewing or 
braising pan can be put in the oven. About half an 
hour before the steak is done, pour out some of the 
sauce and stir in two t^aspoonsful of mustard flour 
and a tablespoonful of brandy ; and stir the whole in 
with the sauce round the steak. 

If there is too much sauce the steak will be boiled, 
if there is too little it will be dried up. As in all 
stewing, the state of the meat must be watched from 
time to time, and basting be had recourse to. 

Beef-Pie, with Potato Grust. 

Mince some underdone roast beef or cold corned 
beef, if it is not too salt ; season with pepper and 
^alt, and spread a layer in the bottom of a pudding- 
dish. Over this put a layer of mashed potato, and 
stick bits of butter thickly over it ; then another of 
'^eat, and so on, until you are ready for the crust. 



152 BEEF. 

To a large cupful of mashed potato add two 
tablespoonsful of melted butter, a well-beaten egg, 
two cups of milk, and beat all together until very 
light. Then work in enough flour to enable you to 
roll out in a sheet — not too stiff — and when you have 
added to the meat and potato in the dish a gravy 
made of butter and milk, with what cold gravy or 
dripping remains from the * roast,* cover the pie with 
a thick, tender crust, cutting a slit in the middle. 

You can use the potato crust, which is very 
wholesome and good, for any kind of meat-pie. It 
looks well brushed over with beaten white of o^'g 
before it goes to table. 

Oxtail. 

Cut the oxtail in joints or sections, and trim away 
the fat from the rump sections ; the very small joints 
may be used to make the sauce ; they do not look 
well sent to table. Let the oxtail disgorge in cold 

water, then simmer it in the stock-pot, or by itself with 

broth and vegetables till it is tender. Take out those= 
pieces which are to be sent to table, and keep warm 
reduce the sauce in which they have been simmered ^ 
or make a Robert sauce, and send up round the oxtai^P 
A watery sauce would make the dish very insipi 
a well-composed sauce a la Bearnaise makes, 
savoury. 

Ox Cheek. 

Wash the check in lukewarm water, dry ai 
wipe. Put it in a large stewpan and cover wi' 



BEEF. 153 

tepid water, a little salt, and some peppercorns ; cover 
close. When it begins to simmer, remove the scum. 
After all has been cleared off, put on the lid and 
simmer for two hours. If the water has shrunk, re- 
place it by water of the same temperature. When 
the meat is quite tender, turn out the whole into a 
deep dish. Remove the bones and let it stand all 
night 

Take off the fat, and mix it with as much flour as 
it will absorb. To this add three leeks, an onion, 
three or four carrots, two turnips, fry all together, 
and then place this, the meat and broth, in the 
stewpan again, and add water ; simmer till quite 
Wended — two or three hours. A large cheek ought to 
'^ake a gallon of soup, or stew. 



Beef Palates. 

The palates must be boiled in plain water till 

quite tender ; as this requires a long time, they must 

^ Prepared the day before. When quite tender the 

^^^ black skin must be removed, and the palates 

^^t be washed in cold water, and then be pressed 

^^een two plates with a moderate weight laid on 
them. 

If the palates are to be used as an entree, they 

^st be cut into either circles or ovals, to admit of 

*^g neatly arranged. If they are for a curry, they 

^^t be cut into large dice ; if for croustades into 

^^ali dice. 

The sauce must have a decided flavour, as Robert 
^^^e, soubise sauce, tomato sauce, &c. The palates 



1 54 BEEh\ 

should be warmed in the sauce, and arranged in a 
circle like cutlets, with sauce round. 

If the croustades are to be filled with palates, the 
small dice must be warmed in rich gravy, and the 
croustades neatly arranged on a napkin in the dish. 

If for curry the treatment given in recipes for 
curry is to be followed. 



Beef Palates 'k la Lyonnaise. 

The palates must be cleaned and boiled in a white 
sauce, and pressed. Cut them into neat shapes, either 
round or square, and warm them in a sauce made 
with brown sauce, slices of fried onion, and mustard 
flour. The palates are intended to be white, or rathe 
cream colour, the sauce brown ; and the onions are tc 
be in the centre of the circle of palates. 

Marrow Patties. 

Ingredients : Marrow, lemon, pepper, salt, thym 
parsley, chives, or shallot, one tablespoonful of crean-~3i 

Take the marrow fresh from the bone ; cut it int ^= 
pieces as large as a walnut ; put it into a stewpa — ■ 
with cold water and one teaspoon ful of salt ; pla( 
over a fire, and after boiling for one minute, pass 
once through a hair sieve. Line the patty-pans 
be used with light paste. To make six patties tal— i^ ' 
one tablespoonful of parsley, thyme, and chives ; cho J^ 
fine ; add one quarter of the rind of a lemon grate-c/ * 
one tablespoonful of cream, a little lemon-juice, salt^ 
and pepper ; beat well together. Place sufficient of 



BEEF, 155 

the marrow in each of the pans, and add a little of the 
savoury cream ; cover with paste, and bake in a mode- 
rate oven for fifteen minutes. 



Another Method. 

Prepare the marrow and savoury cream as before. 

Take a stale French roll and cut into three ; take out 

the crumb, leaving a layer at the bottom (which must 

^^ kept whole) to form a case for the marrow, &c. 

"ut a. little fat in the frying-pan, put on the fire, and, 

^l^en hot enough, place in the rolls and fry a light 

Drowrti. Remove them from the pan, and place on 

P^per for the purpose of absorbing the grease ; sprinkle 

kittle salt on the inside of each roll, and fill with 

^^ rnarrow and savoury cream. Pass the crumbs 

v^lcen from the inside of the re 11) through a wire 

*^^^ ; pile them, cone shape, on the top of the rolls, 

^^h small pieces of butter, and place in the oven to 

thrown. 

Potted Beef. 

Take I lb. of lean beef, rub it over with saltpetre, 

^^*<^ing care not to make it too salt ; let it stand two 

^ ^hree days, then put it in a pot, and cover it with 

^^ter ; bake it in the oven when barley bread is 

^^ing, and when cold cut it into small bits and beat 

^ill it is fine in a marble mortar, add six small 

^^chovies and a little cayenne pepper ; melt half a 

P^Und of butter fresh from the churn, let it stand till 

^^niost cold, then pour it clear from the milk into the 

^^at and mix well with a spoon. Put it into the pots 



156 TONGUE, 

that it is to be kept in, and cover with clarified salt 
butter. 

Pickle for Twenty Pounds of Beef. 

2\ lbs. common salt ; 
\ lb. bay salt ; 

1 lb. sugar ; 

2 ozs. saltpetre ; 

2 teaspoonsful pepper ; 

1 teaspoonful peppercorns ; 

2 gallons water. 

Mix well, boil for twenty minutes and skim. Le 
it get quite cold. Pour over your beef, and turn th 
meat, and baste it well every day for a fortnight. 

Pickle for Tongue. 

I lb. salt ; ^ 

\ lb. coarse sugar ; 
\ oz. sal prunelle ; 
\ oz. saltpetre. ^ 

Rub the tongue every day for three weeks w 
the above. 

Boil slowly for four hours. 

The most economical mode of using a tongue i* 
put it after boiling in a mould sold for the purpc 
and to press it till cold ; then surround the sides w^ 
a band of paper, and cut the slices in the sa^^ 
manner as brawn. 



y Mix thoroughly. 



MUTTON, 157 



CHAPTER XVI. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Boned Leg of Mutton. 

To execute this dish, some practice in boning is 
required if the cook is the operator. The butcher 
^"1 sometimes do the boning either of a piece of beef 
*or roasting or of the leg of mutton, and send the 
"^^es separate to be used for soup. 

The under-side of the leg of mutton is the part 
^^'nere the incision is to be made. Begin at the 
knuckle end, which is to be kept in or replaced, and 
^^ on to the joint, cutting the bone out with as little 
^^^t as possible adhering to it. When this is done, 
^^t off from the bones any flesh that maybe on them, 
^^^ Use it with the stuffing. 

The forcemeat or stuffing, which is to fill up the 

P^^ce where the bone was, is to be made of ham or 

^^oti, onion, parsley, mushrooms, and either veal or 

^^t>it:^ partly chopped, partly pounded ; season with 

^^^^ pepper and salt. Do not put in too much 

^, ^fting. Sew up the skin with a needle and coarse 

J^^n thread, and give the leg a long straight shape 

^^ a bolster. Roast with a cradle spit, or bake ; 

^ste frequently; send up a sauce, either puree of 

^*"tugal onions, or tomatoes. 



1 58 MUTTON. 

Braised Leg of Mutton. 

Cut out as much of the large bone as can be done 
without disturbing the shape of the leg, and remove 
the knuckle bone. Fill up the space left by the re- 
moval of the large bone with a forcemeat well 
seasoned with onion, and tie firmly together. Line a 
stewpan with slices of bacon, onions, carrots, celery 
and fine herbs, put in a fresh pig's foot or calf's foot 
cut up, place the leg in the stewpan with two 
tumblers of broth or stock ; when it is near boiling, 
place hot coals on the hollow cover of the stewpan, 
and let it cook by slow degrees for six hours ; take 
out the leg of mutton, keep warm whilst you prepare 
the sauce by removing the fat and straining through 
a sieve. This is a delicious dish hot, and is good 
cold, but it will not bear warming up. 

Roast Mutton k la Venaison. 

(American Recipe.) 

A Christmas saddle of mutton is very fine pre- 
pared as follows : Wash it well, inside and out, with 
vinegar. Do not wipe it, but hang it up to dry in a 
cool cellar. When the vinegar has dried off, throw 
a clean cloth over it, to keep out the dust. On the 
next day but one, take down the meat and sponge \t 
over again with vinegar ; then put it back in its 
place in the cellar. Repeat this process three times 
a week for a fortnight, keeping the meat hung in ^ 
cold place, and covered, except while you are washin^v 

it. When you are ready to cook it, wipe it withw^ 





MUTTON, 159 

dry cloth, but do not wash it. Roast, basting for 
the first hour with butter and water and afterwards 
with the gravy. A large saddle of mutton will 
require four hours to roast. When it is done, remove 
to a dish,' and cover to keep it hot. Skim the gravy, 
and add half a teacupful of walnut, mushroom, or 
tomato catsup, a glass of Madeira wine, and a table- 
spoonful of browned flour. Boil up once, and send 
to table in a sauce-boat. Always have red-currant or 
some other jelly handed with roast mutton. If pro- 
perly cooked, a saddle of mutton, prepared in ac- 
cordance with these directions, will strongly resemble 
venison in taste. 



Neck of Mutton and Rice. 

Take off the scrag end and trim the neck very 
neatly ; remove the greater part of the fat. The 
scrag and trimmings go to the stock-pot ; the fat to 
the clarifying pot. 

Wash \ lb. of rice ; slice up two onions, and cut 
into squares of an inch each way \ lb. of streaky 
bacon. Put the mutton and these accessories into a 




COPPER STEWPAN. 



steivpan with enough water to prevent burning, 
^eep adding water, so that the rice may swell and 



i6o MUTTOX, 

the meat may stew till the cooking is done — in about 
three hours. Place the mutton in the middle of the 
dish, and the rice and bits of bacon round it. 



Mutton Steak and Potato. 

Cut off from the thick end of a tender leg of 
mutton one or two steaks i^ inches thick, sawing off 
the bone and allowing it to remain in the steak. If 
there is any doubt as to its being tender, score the 
surface on each side, but take care not to let any of 
the gravy escape. Season with pepper and salt, and 
broil on the gridiron. Cut uncooked potatoes into 
fillets, almonds, or other shapes ; fry in butter, an 
garnish the steak with them. Serve very hot. 

It is far better to cut off a couple of steaks fro 
a leg, and dress them as described, than to roast tlm_ 
leg whole and hash up what is not eaten when fir; 
served two or three days after. 

Mutton Cutlets. 

Cutlets arc cut from the best end of the nee 
which must be small, and hung long enough to 



tender. The scrag should be taken off before ti 
neck is hung, and made into broth or stew. 

A cutlet requires to be neatly cut and carefix 1 J, 
trimmed ; each cutlet should have a bone, but not a 
long awkward bone. The skinny parts must be cr «-^^ 
away, and the small bones at the end of the fih 
neatly removed ; these scraps will go into the stoc-fc^* 
pot. 



I 



MUTTON. 



i6i 



The cutlet must then be beaten with a cutlet bat 
or chopper dipped in cold water, always taking care 
to make or keep it a good shape — that is, four inches 
long, two broad at the middle, neatly rounded off at 
the thick end, and with the rib half an inch beyond 
the meat 

In order to arrange cutlets neatly on a dish, they 
must be as nearly as possible of the same size and 
shape, and it is often necessary to use two necks of 




CUTLETS UNTRIMMED 



'*'«Jtton. If the scrags and trimmings are made a 
'""Ciper use of, the arrangement is not. extravagant. A 
^tlet for each guest must of course be provided. If 
*■ rjeck of mutton cuts into ten cutlets, and there are 
->Velve guests, secure a further part of the ' best end,' 
~^ enable the requisite number to be sent to table. 

Cutlets may be broiled ; 

Or sauUs ; 

Or braised ; 

Or fried in a coating of breadcrumbs. 



i62 MUTTON. 

Cutlets broiled are a breakfast or luncheon dish. 
The fire for broilir^ must be clear, the gridiron is 
greased and placed on the fire till it is hot ; and the 
cutlet must be treated as a ' Mutton Chop.' 

For a dinner dish the cutlets, when to be sauti, 
arc placed in the jda/Z-pan, in which butter is 
already melted ; they must be turned at the end of 
five minutes, and then allowed to sauterior about five 
minutes longer. Dress on a circular dish in a crown ; 
fill the centre with a mac^doine, or a pur^ of vegeta- 
bles, and pour sauce round ; or serve plain if preferred. 




Mutton cutlets for a dinner dish may be eggetS 
and breadcrumbed and fried. 

After the first coating of breadcrumbs and eg^ 
just dip them in clarified butter (on a plate) an 
repeat the process of breadcrumbing with egg" 
smooth with a knife. Fry a nice colour, and dress s 
described before— either with vegetables in the cent' 
or plain. Serve sauce in a sauce tureen. The veg:r 
tables for the centre of a dish of cutlets may be= 
macedoine ; or of one kind, as peas, French bea^ 
cauliflower; or a pur^e— turnips, spinach, pota*^ 
haricots, &c. 



MUTTON, 163 



Braised Mutton Cutlets. 

Cutlets for braising should be cut somewhat 
licker than when they are saut^^ &c. The .fleshy 
art of the cutlet may have pieces of truffle and ham, 
r tongue, run right through with a large larding 
eedle. These pieces are not to project as is the case 
irhen the larding is intended to show. 

The cutlets are to be braised in good stock, as 
lescribed in the chapter on braising. They must be 
pressed between two plates ; trimmed again, then just 
warmed in the sauce, and dressed in a crown as 
described before. Surround them with soubise sauce, 
or with a brown sauce, and put vegetables in the 
-entre. 

Prince of Wales' Cutlets. 

A breast of mutton is to have the superfluous fat 

irnmed away ; it is to be simmered in the stock-pot 

1 tender enough to allow the bones to be slipped 
It. 

Press it between two dishes with a weight on 

Cut into squares or lozenges ; ^gg and bread- 
'^Umb, and either fry or broil. Dress on the entree 
^^^h as you would cutlets, and serve with a pur^e of 
^^rnips in the middle, and gravy in a sauceboat 
The turnips must be boiled and passed through a 
tamis, and then the pur^e wrung in a cloth to drain 
out all the water before cream, pepper and salt are 
added. Serve very hot. 

M 2 



Mutton Cutlets Stewed. 

Cut a quantity of carrots, turnips, and potatoes, 
all to the size of olives. Trim some cutlets, and toss 
them in butter, with a sprinkling of pepper and salt, 
till they begin to colour ; put them in a stewpan with 
the carrots, about a pint of stock free from fat, a 
spoonful of French tomato sauce, and a bundle of 
sweet herbs, let them stew gently for fifteen minutes, 
then add the potatoes, and lastly the turnips ; let the 
whole stew gently till meat and vegetables are quite 
done ; add a piece of butter rolled in flour, a small 
piece of glaze, and more pepper and salt. Take out 
the bundle of sweet herb,s, and serve the cutlets round 
the vegetables with as much of the gravy as is 
required. 

Haricot Mutton. 
Take cutlets from the neck or breast of mutCor^ 
Remove the fat parts, fry slightly on both side; 




Make a 'roux'with flour, and the fat in whi 
cutlets have been fried ; when it is a fine yellow 



MUTTON, 165 

colour, dilute it with broth. Add pepper, salt, fine 
herl>s, and leeks or onions, and set on to braise. Cut 
turx-i ips and carrots to the shape of almonds, dice, or 
bits of macaroni, fry in butter, and put with the cut- 
lets. As carrots take much longer than turnips, they 
mu^t be put in earlier. The turnips require half an 
hoiiir. Dress the cutlets in a circle ; place the vege- 
tables in the centre, and the sauce round. 

Mutton Chops. 

-A fine chop will take twelve minutes to cook ; a 
thin one ten minutes. 

Put the gridiron on the fire to let the bars get hot. 

Take the chop with a pair of tongs, or a spoon 
^^cl a knife, and put it on the gridiron, which must 
^ on very hot coals. 

Turn the chop six times^ always using the tongs, 
^^^ause a fork lets out the gravy. 

Have ready a hot plate and a cover ; some salt 
^'^ci pepper if liked. 

Mutton Chops with Sauce Piquante. 

TaKe some chops froni a loin of mutton, trim 

^^rn neatly, and remove all fat ; lay them in a deep 

*^li with slices of onion, a few cloves, whole pepper, 

^^t: and sweet herbs. Add oil and vinegar in equal 



^^'^ just sufficient to cover them ; let them marinade 

^ ten or twelve hours, turning them occasionally, 

5^^^ broil over a clear fire ; arrange them neatly on a 

. ^^Ix Fry one or two shallots, minced very finely, 

^ butter ; when just beginning to take colour, pour 



i66 IRISH STEW, 

on to the chops, and serve with a sharp sauce in a 
sauce boat. 

Irish Stew. 

This is an excellent dish for luncheon, as it is 
none the worse for being kept warm after it is 
cooked. The economical plan is to use the short 
curved bones of a neck of mutton, the scrag being 
put into the stock-pot ; the * best end ' used for cutlets 
or as a joint. 

Allow a bone for each person, and twice the 
weight of potatoes to that of mutton. 

Put a layer of sliced potato in a stewpan, then 
a layer of sliced onions and turnips, then the mutton 
(pepper the mutton), then a layer of onions and turnips, 
then another of potatoes. Let it stew on the hot plate, 
or in the oven ; after about half an hour pour in a small 
tea-cupful of hot water, little by little. SteW for two 
hours. Most Irish stews are spoiled by wateriness, 
the result of a quantity of water being poured in at 
first. 

Hashed Mutton and Beef. 

When there is enough cold meat to be cut into tidy 
slices, and a warm dish is desired, make a hash 
instead of a mince. 

Prepare a good sauce, with any cold gravy or 
sauce that may be available, and flavour it to taste. 
Catsup is disliked by many people. Harvey sauce 
gives a burning taste, and causes thirst afterwards. 

Good gravy, fried onions, chopped lemon-peel, 
and a squeeze of lemon-juice are the best assistants 



HAGGIS. 167 

to a good hash. The sauce must be quite finished, 
hot, and ready to receive the slices of meat, which 
must only be warmed, not boiled in it. All hashes 
must be served very hot, in a deep dish ; must be 
garnished with toasted bread, and a flat piece of 
toasted bread should be laid in the centre of the dish, 
and the slices of hashed meat laid on it, so as to give 
a better look to the dish. 

Haggis, or 'Hachis.* 

Parboil the heart, liver, and lights of a sheep (save 
the broth), mince them extremely fine, removing any 
hard or stringy parts. Mince \ lb. of suet, season 
w^ith pepper, salt, and chopped onions, and mix 
in a pint of oatmeal, which must be partly baked. 
Reduce the broth by boiling down, and use to make 
the mixture into a paste. Half fill the stomach or 
paunch, which has been thoroughly cleansed and 
boiled in salt and water previously. Sew it up 
neatly, and boil for three hours. An easier mode is 
not to use the paunch, but to boil the haggis in paste 
as an ordinary beef-steak pudding. 

Rissoles or patties may be made from the haggis. 

Sheep's Brains. 

Take three sets of brains, put them in cold water 
with a teaspoonful of vinegar, and let them disgorge 
for an hour. Drain the brains, coat with batter, or 
Avith breadcrumbs and ^^'g^ and fry. Prepare fried 
parsley as a garnish, and dish up on a napkin, arran- 
ging the brains in a pyramid. 



It is absolutely necessary that brains should be 
quite fresh, they spoil by even one day's keeping in 
summer. 

Brain Patties. 

Let the brains disgorge in water with a few drops 
of vinegar, drain and dry them ; divide into small 
pieces. Prepare a cream, or B^hamel sauce ; stir in 
the small pieces of brain. Fill with this mixture little 
china souffle cases, and bake in the oven for about 
ten minutes. The surface should just look golden 
here and there. 

Breadcrumbs browned, or grated tongue, may be 
strewed on the surface. Arrange the souffle cases on 
a napkin. 

Kidneys Grilled. 

Cut open the kidneys in the middle, but do not 
separate them, run a small silver skewer through 




the two halves, season with pepper, salt, and salad 
oil, cook them on the gridiron, place them on slices 
of toast, and lay on each kidney a little bit of butter 
in which chopped parsley has been mixed. Add a 

squeeze of lemon. 



MUTTON, 



169 



The kidney ought to be so arranged on the 
skewer that a little hollow is formed in the centre in 
which the bit of butter is placed. 

Kidneys Sautes. 

Slice the kidneys, cutting away the stringy bits. 
Take an equal weight of butter and kidney ; dredge 
with flour, and sautez ; add two tablespoonsful of hot 
stock, into which some chopped fine herbs and a tea- 
spoonful of Maille vinegar have been stirred. 



Turkish Kabobs. 

Cut into thin slices two large onions, and two 
large apples which have been pared and cored ; 
arranging to have eight pieces of each. Cut eight 
pieces of streaky bacon to the thickness of a penny, 
and as many of the lean part of a neck of mutton or 
loin of veal. The pieces must be about two inches 
in diameter. There will be thirty-two pieces. Lay 
them flat in a dish, sprinkle with curry powder, a 

little ground ginger and salt. Let 
them imbibe this seasoning for 
two hours, then string them on a 
skewer in the following order : 
meat, onion, bacon, apple, then 
meat, and so on. 

Wrap the skewers in buttered 
paper, and either bake in the 
oven, or rcast in front of the fire. 
They will take quite an hour and a half to cook. 




TOASTING FRAME. 



170 MUTTON. 

If the skewers are silver, send them up as they are. 
If ordinary skewers, slip the kabobs off, and send 
them up in a border of rice, which must be ready 
prepared by the time the kabobs are done. The curry 
powder must not be too hot. A very delicate curry 
sauce may be sent up with them in the same dish, or 
in a sauce tureen. 



Turkish Kabobs. No. 2. 

Cut the lean of a neck or loin of tender mutton 
into dice about one inch square ; have ready chopped 
onions and tomatoes (fresh or preserved), and rub the 
pieces of mutton. Let them stand in the mixture for 
two or three hours ; then place about four pieces of 
mutton on a short silver skewer (about six skewers 
make a dish) ; place them in front of the fire, and 
turn as the meat becomes brown, basting with the 
tomato juice and sprinkling with flour. Dish up by 
laying two skewers side by side, two across these, and 
the other two again across. Mix the tomato juice 
and the gravy which has run out (or a little clear 
gravy) and pour round the kabobs. If you have no 
silver skewers, the dish can be made with ordinar>' 
skewers ; but they must not project much beyond the 
kabobs. The bones and scraps of mutton left will 
make broth or Irish stew. 



LAMB. 171 



* Chillo; 

Take the lean part of half a loin of mutton (not 
cooked) and chop fine. Chop very fine a small portion 
of the fat, taking care there is no skin ; add salt and 
black pepper, and mix thoroughly. 

Slice two large onions and one cucumber, from 
which the seeds must be carefully removed, two 
lettuces cut into shreds, ^ pint young green peas, a 
bunch of thyme, \ lb. clarified butter, and a small tea- 
cup of weak broth. Let the meat and vegetables stew 
together for four hours. Place it in the middle of a 
dish and surround with rice, boiled as for curry. 



Epig^amme of Lamb. 

Braise the breast of lamb till it is tender enough 
for the bones to be taken out, without however dis- 
turbing the meat ; save the bones. Press the meat 
between two dishes with a weight on the upper dish. 
Cut the meat into the shape of cutlets, and stick in 
a small end of bone. 

Meanwhile prepare lamb cutlets from the neck, in 
the usual way. Sautez the neck-cutlets in butter, and 
after coating the breast-cutlets in breadcrumbs and 
^SS> fry them, and arrange on an entree dish the two 
sorts of cutlets, alternately. Fill up the centre with 
asparagus points, or any other vegetable garnish. 
Serve a good plain brown sauce in a tureen. 



172 LAMB, 



Lamb Cutiets en Belle Vue. 

From two necks of lamb cut as many cutlets as 
there are well-shaped bones (the scrags will make 
Irish stew), and lard them with tongue or ham so 
that the bits of tongue are level with the cutlet 
Braise the cutlets with the usual vegetables on a layer 
of bacon, in stock for about an hour and a half, 
covering close all the time. Let them absorb the 
stock till nearly cold, then press each cutlet between 
two plates ; trim neatly, then set them in aspic jelly 
in a large shallow dish, so that each cutlet has a thin 
coating of jelly both under and over. A cutter the 
shape of a cutlet must then be used to stamp each cutlet 
out of the surrounding aspic. The cutter is first dipped 
in hot water so as to stamp more easily. Truffles may 
be used instead of tongue, or besides tongue. Dish 
in a circle ; fill the centre with mixed vegetables, 
(cold, of course) ; and surround either with broken 
jelly or a sauce, half mayonnaise, half cream. 



Lamb Cutlets ^ la Pompadour. 

Trim six cutlets, season them with pepper and 
salt, and sautez them in butter. Take them out of 
the pan and let them get cold. Make a stuffing with 
veal, pork, and bacon chopped very fine ; mix in some 
truffles and some fine herbs which have been par- 
boiled. Surround each cutlet with this stuffing ; place 
the whole in buttered paper,* and warm in the oven. 

* See illustration on the opposite page. 



LAMB. 



173 



Lamb Cutlets au Parmesan. 

From the best end of two necks of lamb cut 
twelve cutlets and partly sautes them. Prepare the 




following sauce : two tablespoon sful of white sauce, in 
which you have introduced six spoonsful of grated 
parmesan cheese. Steep the cutlets in this sauce, and 
then coat them twice over with breadcrumbs and egg, 
taking care that the surface is perfectly smooth and 
even ; fry them a golden brown, dish them up in a 
circle, and garnish with fried parsley. 



174 VEAL, 



CHAPTER XVII. 

V£AL. 

Loin of Veal. 

This joint can either be roasted whole, and sent vx p 
with a piece of- toasted bread under it, large enou. ^^^ 
to be cut into as many pieces as there are to t>^ 
rations of the veal ; or it can be made to yield ^ 
number of different dishes instead of one roast. TTl'^^ 
kidney to be broiled for breakfast ; a portion of t:!^ ^ 
best end to be made into grenadins ; another portic:>^ 
into * cream of veal,' or into quenelles. The scrap^^ 
cut off as these parts are taken away can be used f^^^ 
a curry, or can be put into a game or meat pie. I^ 
this way a number of entries are obtained, of vari^^ 
flavour and appearance ; and as curry is better fc^^ 
being made the day before it is eaten, and grenadine 
can be partly braised beforehand, the difficulty o^ 
keeping a loin of veal in muggy weather is success" 
fully dealt with. 

Fillet of Veal. 

(American Recipe.) 

Make ready a dressing of breadcrumbs, chopped 
thyme and parsley ; a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, 
rubbed together with some melted butter or beef suet ; 



VEAL. 175 

:en with milk or hot water, and bind with a 
negg. 

ake out the bone from the meat, and pin securely 
I round with skewers ; then pass a stout twine 
al times about the fillet, or a band of muslin. 
:he cavity from which the bone was taken with 
luffing, and thrust between the folds of the meat, 
es making incisions with a thin sharp knife to 
/e it. Once in a while slip in a strip of fat pork 
m. Baste at first with salt and water, afterwards 
gravy. At the last, dredge with flour and baste 
butter. Time required, from one and a half to 
ind a half hours. 

Fricandeau of Veal. 

1 fricandeau, to be quite satisfactory, must be 

2 from the tenderest part of the leg ; the veal 

: be white and delicate. An inferior form of 
ndeau is made from the best end of the neck, 
\g the meat clean along from the bones, and 
ning neatly. 

Vhichever piece is used, it must be larded with 
Dacon, the rows of larding being straight and 
, and the needle must carry each bit of bacon 
: way inside the veal. The fricandeau must not 
DO thick, or the flavour will not permeate the 
e piece. Take an oval stewpan with a drainer 
Dlace on the drainer slices of onion, carrot and 
Yy and a bouquet of fine herbs ; next place thin 
i of fat bacon, and then the piece of veal. Sur- 
i it with broth, into which is stirred a glass of 



176 VEAL. 

Chablis ; do not let the broth cover the veal ; protect 
the larded surface with buttered paper ; put the stew- 
pan on the hot plate (the lid should be concave and 
filled with hot coals), and let it braise on a slow fire or 
in an oven for four hours. Baste frequently, or the 
fricandeau will be dry, and will not be savoury. Care 
must be taken that the larding points of bacon are 
not crushed, or charred, or discoloured by salt, which 
turns the veal red. 

A fricandeau must be of a rich golden tint ; if on 
taking it out of the braising pan it is too pale, a few 
minutes in the oven will deepen the colour. The 
sauce must be allowed to reduce before sending it up 
with the fricandeau. A pur^e of sorrel can be laid 
round the dish, or sent up separate. Spinach or 
tomatoes may be used instead of sorrel. 



Veal Steak. 

(American Recipe.) 

This should be thinner than beefsteak, and be 
done throughout. Few persons are fond of raw veal. 
Broil upon a well-greased gridiron over a clear fire, 
and turn frequently while the steaks are cooking. 
Put into a saucepan four or five young onions minced 
fine, a large teaspoonful of tomato catsup, or twice the 
quantity of stewed tomato, a lump of butter the size 
of an eggy and a little thyme or parsley, with a small 
teacupful of broth. Let them stew together while 
the steaks are broiling, thickening before you turn 
the gravy out, with a spoonful of browned flour. Add, 
if you please, a half-glass of wine. Boil up once 



VEAL. 177 

hard, and when the steaks are dished up, with a small 
bit of butter upon each, pour the mixture over and 
round them. 

Spinach or sorrel is as natural an accompaniment 
to veal as green peas to roast duck. 



Braised Veal Cutlets. 
Trim and lard very closely. Garnish the bottom 
of a shallow stewpan, or a saut/-p^n which has a cover, 




with a layer of bacon, slices of carrot, onion, celery, 
and a bouquet of fine herbs. Place the cutlets on this 
bed, moisten with stock, cover with buttered paper, 
and set on the fire. When it has come to the boil, 
remove and put in the oven to braise for ! ^ hours. Keep 
on basting with the stock and liquor in the pan. When 
nearly done, take away all the stock, and lise it for 
niaking the sauce for the cutlets ; according as it 
"Quires to be made thinner add more stock ; or 
thicker, boil down. A glass of Chablis and a squeeze 
of lemon must be added. Strain and reduce again if 
lecessary. 



178 VEAL, 



Veal Cutiets k la Drayton. 

Simmer half a dozen cutlets in stock and put them 
between two dishes with a weight on the top dish. 
When cold coat each cutlet with a thick brown sauce 
in which pelures de truffes have been cooked. The 
coating must be on both sides, and to make the next 
coating adhere, it is necessary to flour and egg the 
cutlets. This last coating must be of fine breadcrumbs 
and clarified butter. Sautez\}[i^ cutlets a gold colour ; 
heat a skewer and mark a brown line across each cutlet, 
to give it the appearance of being grilled. Serve on a 
napkin, with a delicate white sauce in a tureen. 



Tendrons of Veal. 

These are prepared from the breast ; they are not 
bone, they are not meat, but a sort of gristle to which 
a little meat adheres. This gristly portion of the 
breast must be braised in good stock with the usual 
vegetables and fine herbs, for at least four hours. 
When white and tender the piece of gristle is to be 
pressed between two dishes till cold. The tendrons 
are made by cutting the gristle into round pieces the 
size of a crown, or rather larger. Each piece must be 
glazed ; they must be warmed in rich sauce, and 
dressed in a circle on the entree dish, a pur^ of 
spinach or sorrel in the centre, and sauce, nearly half 
glaze, round. 



VEAL, 179 

Veal Scallop. 

(American Recipe.) 

Chop some cold roast or stewed veal very fine, put 
a layer in the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish, and 
season with pepper and salt. Next have a layer of 
finely-powdered rusks. Strew some bits of butter 
upon it and wet with a little milk ; then more veal 
seasoned as before, and another round of rusk crumbs, 
with butter and milk. When the dish is full, wet 
well with gravy or broth. Spread over all a thick 
layer of crumbs seasoned with salt, made into a paste 
with milk bound with a beaten egg or two. Stick 
butter-bits thickly over it ; invert a tin pan so as to 
cover all and keep in the steam, and bake — if small, 
half an hour ; three quarters will suffice for a large 
dish. Remove the cover ten minutes before it is 
served, and brown. 

Calf's Head. 

If a satisfactory dish is to be made, the head 
must have the skin on. 

Take out the tongue and the brains, and put 
them in water with a little vinegar to disgorge ; 
remove the eyes. Place the head in cold water to 
cleanse thoroughly, and then boil it only long enough 
to enable the bones to be taken out. If the head is 
to be sent up in two halves, divide it neatly, complete 
the cooking in a white sauce, as described for fricassee 
of chicken. Make cakes or little balls with the brains 
for garnish, and use the tongue — which must be boiled 
by itself — for garnish also. 

N 2 



i8o VEAL, 

If the dish is intended for an entree, proceed as 
before till the head is tender, then take it out of the 
water, drain and wipe dry, cut into round pieces 2^ 
inches in diameter, or squares about the same size. 
Press these between two plates. 

Meanwhile prepare a rich sauce. 

Warm the pieces of calf's head in a little good 
stock, dress them in a circle, surround them with the 
sauce, and fill the centre with button mushrooms, egg- 
balls, brain-balls, or truffles. 

All sauces for calf's head must have a little white 
wine, such as Chablis, and a squeeze of lemon, as the 
meat itself is rather tasteless. 

Calf's Head a la Ste.-M^nehould. 

If the pieces of calf's head are not of the shape 
to make a neat entree as in the previous recipe, 
this mode of dressing is suitable. 

Make a sauce with butter, flour, salt and pepper, 
and season with lemon-juice ; let it get cold enough to 
set, dip each piece of meat in it, then coat with bread- 
crumbs, dip in butter and brown, or rdither g-i/d ] give 
a second coating of breadcrumbs and butter, and 
finish in the oven, or before the fire. Serve on a 
napkin and garnish with fried parsley. 

Croquettes of Calf's Brains. 

(American Recipe.) 

Wash the brains very thoroughly until they are 
free from membranous matter and perfectly white. 
Beat them smooth ; season with a pinch of powder^A. 



VEAL, i8i 

sage, pepper and salt. Add two tablespoonsful of 
fine breadcrumbs moistened with milk, and a beaten 
egg. Roll into balls with floured hands, dip in beaten 
egg, then rusk-crumbs, and fry in butter or veal- 
drippings. 

These make a pleasant accompaniment to boiled 
spinach. Heap the vegetable in the centre of the 
dish, arrange the balls about it, and give one to each 
person who wishes for spinach. 

Liver and Bacon. 

Secure a calf s liver, and do not let it hang, as it 
soon becomes dry and leathery. Cut into piepes the 
thickness and shape, as near as may be, of a cutlet. 
Fry some bacon, and with it the liver, sprinkling with 
pepper, parsley and fine herbs. Arrange the liver and 
bacon in alternate order, on the dish before the fire ; 
throw a few chopped shallots, and a sprinkling of flour 
into the frying pan, with a squeeze of lemon ; let it 
warm, and pour into the centre of the dish with a 

gravy pourer. 

The liver must not be over-fried, or its flavour is 

destroyed. 

* Pain 'or Cake of Calf's Liver. 

Take the best parts of the liver — which must not 
have been ' kept ' — and weigh an equal quantity of the 
fet of bacon (this should have been boiled) ; pound it 
"J a mortar with pepper, salt and parsley. 

Cut into dice a couple of onions and fry. Cut 
^^^o similar dice some ham, or the lean of the bacon. 



and mix with the pounded material. Mix in the 
yolks and whites (beaten separately) of three eggs and 




work them in thoroughly. Fill a plain mould, an<ii- 
steam, as is done for creme de volaille. Turn oi». "t^ > 
surround with thin brown sauce in which fine hertz=»^ 
can be seen as v/ell as tasted, or garnish with buttc» "^ 
mushrooms. 

This is a refined form of liver and bacon. 

Cream of Veal. 

Take the tenderest part of a fillet of veal, a «"*' 
cooked. Pound in a mortar, add an equal weight *^^^' 
bread steeped in boiling milk. Mix thoroughly ; s *: *'^ 
in the yolk of one and the white of two e^s, enou^^ 
cream to make it the proper thickness ; season wi*--^ 
pepper and salt. Put it in a plain mould, or irx * 
number of little moulds which may be decorated w » *^ * 
thin slices of truffles, or ham, or tongue. 

Steam for about one hour ; if allowed to boil, *^^ 
to remain too long on the fire the dish will be spoils* 
by becoming tough and leathery ; it should melt ■ " 
the mouth. Turn out and surround with a sauce A '^ J 
P^rigueux. J 



QUENELLES, 183 



Quenelles. 

The principle is the same whether the quenelles 
made of uncooked fish, flesh, poultry, or game. 

The meat is pounded in a marble mortar, and 
f its weight of the fat part of a ham or of boiled 
on is worked in ; and after passing through a sieve, 
im is added to soften the mixture, with pepper and 
: in very moderate quantities. 
Instead of the fat of bacon, beef suet may be 
d, and a small quantity of milk. Both these 
3es will produce very fair quenelle meat, but the 
5t dainty quenelle meat is made by using cream, 
lie larger proportion of cream, instead of bacon 

suet. 
Test the quenelle meat by poaching a very small 
tion in hot water for a few minutes. Open the 
iple, and thus ascertain if it is smooth, light, yet 

X, 

The quenelle meat is either placed in small dariole 
Lilds and steamed in a bain-marie, or it is moulded 
h. two tablespoons into the shape of a flattened egg ; 
s poached in broth or stock of a pale ^olour for 
►\at ten minutes in the saut^ pan. The quenelles 

then arranged on the entree dish and surrounded 
b. rich brown sauce, or a pur^e of mushrooms. As 
-nelles contain either cream, or substitutes for 
^m, it is false taste to add a cream sauce. 

A variety of quenelle is made by giving to each 
-nelle a core of dark meat made by chopping up 
ti or tongue, mushrooms, or truffles. 



i84 QUENELLES, 

Quenelles. No. 2. 

One pound of lean veal cut from the leg. Scrape 
it with a knife ; pound it, and rub it through a wire 
sieve on to a plate. Steep i lb. of bread- in tepid 
water, and wring it in a cloth to get out the moisture. 
Put it in a stewpan with I oz. of butter and a little 
salt. Stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until 
it ceases to stick to the pan and forms a smooth paste. 
Place it between two plates to cool. 

Put in a mortar 12 ozs. of the prepared veal, 
6 ozs. of fresh butter, and 8 ozs. of the bread panada, 
Pound these well together ; mix in gradually three 
whole eggs and two tablespoonsful of good white 
sauce and the yolks of two more eggs. Season with 
pepper and salt ; and when the forcemeat has been 
well mixed by pounding it into a smooth compact 
body, take it out of the mortar, put it into a basin, 
and keep in the cool until required for use. 




QUENELLES. 

Form the quenelles with two tablespoons, poach 
them in the ordinary way, dish them in a circle, and 
garnish the centre with any vegetable, or mushrooms, 
&c. 

Very small quenelles about the size of an almond 
are used in clear soups, taking the place of vegetables, 



SWEETBREADS. 185 

custard-mixture, &c. The allowance is two or three 
to each soup plate. 



Sweetbreads. 

A sweetbread is so tender if simply dressed that 
the attempt to improve it by braising only destroys 
its flavour. 

It should be parboiled as soon as it comes from 
the butcher, as it is liable to tufn sour. 

Sweetbreads are a dainty and not very expensive 
dish in the country. They are so dear in towns as to 
be only used where cost is no object. 

The sweetbread is to be cut into pieces about 
three-quarters of an inch thick, egged, and bread- 
crumbed, and fried a golden brown. Crisp fried 
parsley must be ready. The pieces of sweetbread 
are dressed in a circle on a napkin, and the parsley is 
placed in the centre. Slices of lemon may be handed 
round or used as a garnish. 

If it is necessary to make a small quantity of 
sweetbread into a large number of rations, the best 
mode is to use them as filling for croustades. The 
croustade paste is placed in tins — oval, round, or 
lozenge-shaped, as best suits the dish on which they 
are to be arranged. 

The sweetbread is cut in dice, warmed in white 
sauce with button mushrooms, or truffles cut in dice, 
and the croustades are filled neatly and placed on a 
napkin on the entree dish. 

Lamb's fry is treated exactly like sweetbread — 
parboiled, fried, &c. 



1 86 VEAL. 



Galantine of Breast of Veal. 

Bone the breast and spread it out as flat as possible 
on the board, pare off* the meat at the ends so that 
the skin may project beyond ; take all the scraps of 
meat and chop small, add an equal weight of the fat 
of bacon — dice of tongue, truffles, pistachio nuts or, 
if liked, olives, pepper and salt. The large dice 
must be at equal intervals in this stuffing ; the breast 
is rolled round a mass of the stuffing and sewn toge- 
ther ; it is fastened up in a cloth, and bands of tape 
passed round so as to keep the whole in shape. The 
galantine is then to be braised for six hours in weak 
stock, which can be made with the bones of the breast 
and a calfs foot. Let the galantine be cold before it 
is untied. Glaze before sending up. 



Jellied Veal. 

(American Recipe ) 

Wash a knuckle of veal and cut it into three 
pieces. Boil it slowly in very little water until the 
meat will slip easily from the bones ; take it out of 
the liquor, remove all the bones, and chop the meat 
fine. Season with salt, pepper, two shallots chopped 
as fine as possible, thyme or sage. Put back into the 
liquor, and boil until it is almost dry, and can l>^ 
stirred with difficulty. Turn into a mould until ne^jct 
day. Set on the table cold, garnish with parsl^V' 
and cut in slices. The juice of a lemon, stirred '^'^ 
just before it is taken from the fire, is an improvem* 



VEAL. 187 

Veal Marble. 

(American Recipe.) 

Boil an ox tongue the day before it is to be used, 
and a like number of pounds of lean veal, or the 
lean of a well-cooked fillet will do as well. Grind 
first one and then the other in a sausage-cutter, keeping 
them in separate vessels until you are ready to pack. 
If you have no machine for this purpose, chop exceed- 
ingly fine. Season the tongue with pepper, powdered 
sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little 
nutmeg, and cloves — ^just a pinch of each ; the veal in 
like manner, with the addition of salt. Pack in alter- 
nate spoonsful, as irregularly as possible, in cups, bowls, 
or jars which have been well buttered. Press very 
hard as you go on, smooth the top, and cover with 
clarified butter. When this cools, close up the jars, 
and keep in a cool dry place. Turn out whole, or 
serve in slices. It is a pretty and savoury relish, gar- 
nished with parsley or the blanched tops of celery. 
You can use ground ham instead of tongue. It is 
hardly so good, but is more economical. 

Imitation Pkt€ de Foie Gras. 

(American Recipe.) 

Boil a calfs liver until very tender in water that 

^^s been slightly salted, and in another vessel a nice 

^3.1 fs tongue. Do this the day before you make 

3^^vir pat6, as they should be not only cold, but firm, 

^t^Cin used. Cut the liver into bits, and rub these 

^^^dually to a smooth paste in a mortar, moistening, 



1 88 VEAL. 

as you go on, with melted butter. Work into this 
paste, which should be quite soft, a quarter-teaspoonful 
of cayenne pepper, or twice the quantity of white or 
black pepper, half a grated nutmeg, a few cloves, 
a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, salt to taste, a 
full teaspoonful of mustard, and a tablespoonful of 
boiling water, in which a minced onion has been 
steeped until the flavour is extracted. Work all toge- 
ther thoroughly, and pack in jelly jars with air-tight 
covers, or if you have them, in pdt6 jars. Butter the 
inside of the jars well, and pack the pdt6 very hard, 
inserting here and there square and triangular bits of 
the tongue, which should be pared and cut up for this 
purpose. These simulate the truffles imbedded in 
the genuine patds from Strasburg. When the jar is 
packed, and smooth as marble on the surface, cover 
with melted butter. Let this harden, put on the lid, 
and set in a cool place. In winter it will keep for 
weeks, and comes in well for luncheon or tea. 

The resemblance in taste to the real pkt6 de foie 
gras is remarkable, and the domestic article is popular 
with the lovers of that delicacy. Pigs' livers make a 
very fair pate. If you can procure the livers of several 
fowls, and treat as above) substituting bits of the in- 
side of the gizzard for truffles, you will find the result 
even more satisfactory. 



VEAL. 189 

Calfs Head in a Mould. 

(American Recipe.) 

Boil a calf's head until tender, the day before you 
wish to use it When perfectly cold, chop — not too 
small — and season to taste with pepper, salt, mace, 
and the juice of a lemon. Prepare half as much cold 
ham, fat and lean, also minced, as you have of the 
chopped calfs head. Butter a mould well, and lay in 
the bottom a layer of the calfs head, then one of ham, 
.and so on until the shape is full, pressing each layer 
hard, when you have moistened it with veal gravy or 
the liquor in which the head was boiled. Pour more 
gravy over the top, and when it has soaked in well, 
cover with a paste made of flour and water. Bake one 
hour. 

Remove the paste when it is quite cold, and turn 
out carefully. Cut perpendicularly. 

This is quite as good a relish when made of cold 
roast or stewed veal and ham. It will keep several 
days in cool weather. 



I90 PORK. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 
PORK, 

Roast Spare Rib. 

When first put down to the fire, cover with a greased 
paper until it is half done. Remove it then, and 
dredge with flour. A few minutes later, baste once 
with butter, and afterwards at short intervals, with its 
own gravy. This is necessary, the spare rib being a 
very dry piece. Just before you take it up strew 
over the surface thickly with fine breadcrumbs sea- 
soned with powdered sage, pepper, and salt, and a 
small onion minced into almost invisible bits. Let 
it cook five minutes, and baste once more with butter. 
Skim the gravy, add half a cupful of hot water, 
thicken with brown flour, squeeze in the juice of a 
lemon, strain, and pour over the meat in the dish. 

Hand round apple or tomato sauce with it, or if 
you prefer, put a spoonful in the gravy, after it is 
strained. Time, two hours to two and a half hours. 

Pork Cutlets. 

It is essential that the cutlets should be taken 
from a tender neck of pork, with very small bones. 
The cutlets must be cut and trimmed in the same 



PORK, 191 

vay as mutton and lamb cutlets,^ and they must be 
V2«// for twenty minutes. 

The colour is to be a golden brown, and each 
:utlet is to be carefully turned with a pair of cutlet- 
ongs, so that both sides are coloured, and that the 
:utlet keeps its shape — that is, does not curl up, as 
vould happen if allowed to remain till one side was 
[uite coloured. Serve with a Robert sauce, or a 
omato sauce. 

Pork Cutlets. No. 2. 

Select young tender pork with small bones. Cut 
he cutlets thin, but with a bone in each if possible. 
Trim them to a neat shape (use any scraps left for a 
)ie). Steep them for three days in a bath of salad 
al, sliced onionj pepper, bay-leaf and parsley. Take 
are to turn the cutlets, and cover them with the 
nixture seyieral times a day. Let the cutlets drain, 
hen either fry or broil them thoroughly; and serve 
leatly arranged in a circle, with Robert sauce round. 

Pigs* Feet k la Ste.-M^nehould. 

Put four pigs' feet in pickle for a day and a half, 
Irain and wipe them dry ; braise till they are tender 
enough for the bones to be slipped out, but do not 
)reak the skin, bind up with tape and finish braising, 
)ut them under a weight to press and cool. Egg and 
breadcrumb, and either grill or fry. Serve on a nap- 
dn with crisp parsley, and hand round Robert sauce 
^r tartar sauce if desired. 

Another way is to extract all the bones and re- 

* See illustration on p. i6i. 



192 HAM, 

place them by a quenelle meat with chopped truffles 
in it. The feet can be fried in batter instead of in 
egg and breadcrumbs. 

Pigs' feet require long and slow braising, and as 
they require the previous pickling, they must be 
secured at least three days beforehand. They do not 
require ' keeping.' 

Calves' feet may be dressed in the same way. 



Broiled Ham. 

Cut in slices. Wash well and soak in scalding 
water in a covered vessel for half an hour. Pour off 
the water and add more boiling water. Wipe diy 
when the ham has stood half an hour in the second 
water, and lay in cold water for five minutes. Wipe 
again, and broil over or under a clear fire. 

Cold boiled ham, that is not too much done, is better 
for broiling than raw ; it does not require soaking. 

Pepper before serving. 

Steamed Ham. 

This is by far the best way of cooking a ham. Lay 
in cold water for twelve hours ; wash very thoroughly, 
rubbing with a stiff brush to dislodge the salt an^ 
smoke on the outside. Put into a steamer, cov^^ 
closely, and set it over a pot of boiling water. Allc:3^^v 
at least twenty minutes to a pound. Keep the wa"*^er 
at a hard boil. 

Spinach or some other green vegetable should ^ 
handed with it. 



HAM. 193 



To Boil a Ham. 



Place a layer of sweet hay at the bottom of the 
saucepan, and the ham on that ; mix beer and water 
— one-third beer and two-thirds water ; simmer the 
ham in this mixture for six hours. If the ham is 
dry or hard, put some dripping in the saucepan when 
it has been on for three hours. 

To Cure a Ham about 18 lbs. Weight. 

Take i lb. common salt ; \ lb. bay salt pounded 
fine ; i lb. coarse sugar ; 2 ozs. saltpetre pounded fine ; 
2 ozs. ground pepper. Mix these well together, and 
then rub them by degrees into the ham for an hour, 
or until the whole of the ingredients are quite dis- 
solved ; the ham is to be turned and rubbed every 
day for a month in its own liquor. Then drain it 
well, rub over with bran, and let it dry thoroughly^ 
smoke over a wood fire, but at such a distance that 
the process is very gradual. Some people put only 
half the quantity of saltpetre and less sugar. 

• 

To Pickle Hams. 

Begin by rubbing the leg of pork all over with 

treacle ; i lb. will be required. Take care to rub the 

treacle well round the knuckle, and at the thigh bone 

^'id, so that it penetrates under the skin and round 

^^e bones. 

Put in a pan and pour over a quart of vinegar 
■*^9.ste it for three days, then mix i lb. bay salt with 
*i lbs. saltpetre, pound and rub in. Cover with 2 lbs* 
^^nrimon salt, and let it remain for three days 



194 PORK, 

Then stir up all this pickle, and keep rubbing it 
in once a day for a month. Drain the ham, rub over 
with bran, and dry thoroughly before smoking. 

The pickle can be used for other meat, but the 
meat must be salted for twenty-four hours, and then 
drained dry before the pickle is used for it. After 
two months' use it must be boiled, and can then be 
used for pickling beef. 



Pickle for Pork. 

Ascertain how much liquid the tubs or leads in 
which the pork is to steep will hold. Put that quan- 
tity of water in a boiler, and when it boils mix in 
the salt by degrees. The way to ascertain whether 
enough salt is in the water is to boil an egg in it, 
and when the ^^'g floats, the proper proportion of 
salt is attained. Pour the brine into an earthenware 
vessel, and let it cool, then pour into the salting ves- 
sels. The pork must be cut into suitable pieces, must 
be completely covered by the brine ; the thin pieces 
of pork require some stones placed on them. The 
salting pans must be kept closely covered, and when 
a piece of pork is taken out for use, care must be 
taken not to interfere with the other pieces. No 
copper vessel or brass weight must come near pickle. 
The tubs or leads must be faultlessly sweet and cleari, 
and be perfectly dry when the pickle is first put in. 

When all the pork has been used, the brine is to 
be boiled and skimmed. It requires nearly a fort- 
night to fit the pork for boiling. It increases in si^^ 
during the process of boiling. 



SUCKING PIG, 195 

A wooden spoon is to be used in making and 
moving the brine. 



Sucking Pig. 

A sucking pig at the beginning of autumn is not 
a bad dish, though it is not acceptable to all palates. 
It must be roasted before a brisk fire, and must be 
well basted with, at first, hot water which has been put 
in the dripping pan with a pinch of salt ; pour away 
this water, replace it with salad oil, and continue 
to baste ; or take with a pair of tongs a piece of 
fat bacon, and rub it up and down the * crackling/ 
The object is to keep the crackling from scorching, 
and to render it crisp. 

Make some balls with onion, sage, and bread- 
crumbs. Coat with breadcrumbs and eggs, fry and use 
for garnish ; a better mode than stuffing with onion 
and sage. A pur^e of apples or tomatoes may be 
served with sucking pig. 

Galantine of Sucking Pig. 

The body of the sucking pig must be carefully 

'^ned, the feet and head excepted. All the bits of 

'^eat which come off in the process of boning, a 

^^^ntity of veal or of rabbit, of fat bacon, and of 

Panada must be pounded in a mortar and seasoned ; 

^^d another smaller quantity of fillets of rabbit, bacon, 

^^ffles, and the liver of the pig must be made ready. 

Put a layer of the pounded meat, and then one of 

"^^ mixed fillets in the pig, till you have filled it up ; 

o 2 



196 BRAWN, 

then sew up the opening. Try to arrange it so as to 
preserve the shape. Fasten up in a cloth as other 
galantines, and braise slowly in weak stock with the 
usual vegetables for from three to four hours. Do 
not remove the cloth until it is cold. 



Brawn. 

The tin in which the brawn is made is to be a 
cylinder, of nine inches by seven inches. The sides 
must be perforated with small holes like a rushlight 
shade. 

Take a pig's head, feet, ears, and tongue, and a 
calf s foot (or cow's heel), let them be well turned 
and rubbed in pickle for six days. Boil slowly for 
seven hours. The head requires less than four hours 
to boil, the feet nearly seven. Remove all the meat 
and gristle from the bones, and cut, or tear into 
suitable pieces ; the tongue is to be cut into larger 
bits. Season with mixed spice and pepper. Arrange 
the skin next the sides of the tin, put a layer of meat 
and bits of tongue here and there, and so fill the tin 
with all your material. The effect aimed at is to give 
the mottled look of marble to the brawn. When the 
tin is filled with the prepared meat, a cloth is to be 
laid over it, and on that a 7 lb. weight, which must 
remain for 24 hours. 

Pickle for Brawn, &c. 

Pour 2 gallons of boiling water over 6 lbs. of salt 
When quite cold put in ^ lb. saltpetre, pounded very 



BOARS HEAD, 197 

fine, I oz. bay salt, and \ lb. brown sugar. Mix 
thoroughly. 

Boar's Head. 

Pig's head, feet, and ears ; 

Haifa teaspoonful of black pepper, and the same of 
cayenne ; 

4 teaspoonsful powdered sage ; 
I teaspoonful mace ; 
One onion minced ; 
Salt and saltpetre. 

Soak the head twelve hours and lay in a strong 
brine, with a tablespoonful of saltpetre. Let it lie 
three days in this ; rinse, then boil it until you can 
draw out the bones. Do this very carefully from the 
back and under side of the head, breaking the outline 
of the top as little as possible. Chop the meat of the 
feet and ears, which should have been boiled with the 
head, season to taste with the spices indicated (tastes 
vary in these matters), beat in the brains, or two table- 
spoonsful of melted butter. Fill up the hollows left 
by the removal of the bones with this mixture. Tie 
in a flannel cloth, sewing this tightly into the shape of 
the head ; boil an hour and a quarter, and set aside 
to drain and cool. Do not remove the cloth until 
next day. 



198 POULTRY. 



CHAPTER XIX. 
POULTRY. 

Entries of Chicken. 

Entries of chicken must be made from small 
tender chickens, with the exception of Chicken Cream 
and a few other dishes, in which the breast only is 
used. 

It must be borne in mind that the legs require 
longer cooking than the wings and breast, and are 
often better dealt with by forming part of an entirely 
different dish. 

For instance, the breasts of old hens being used 
for Chicken Cream, the legs and wings will make a 
pie, which must be baked long enough to render the 
legs quite tender ; or they can be used for the Spanish 
dish Chicken and Rice {polio con arroz) ; or for a 
curry ; or for Chicken Jelly, or for broth and stock. 

The illustration shows the size and jointing of 
chickens which are cut up for entries — such as 
chicken a la Marengo, a la viennoise — or for fricassee, 
when not to be dressed as a whole chicken. 

These pieces cannot be arranged in a circle. 
They look best mounted in a pyramid, the coarser 
parts as the basis, the delicate parts on the top, witli 
crisp parsley, if served dry— that is, without sauce — ' 



CHICKEN CUT UP. 199 

with mushrooms and croQtons round them if sauce is 
served in the same dish. 




6, 7, BREAST ; 9, 1 

Chicken Cream. 

Pound the breast of an old hen in a marble mor- 
*"■; add half a pint of double cream while pounding j 



200 POULTRY. 

pepper and salt to taste. Pass through a hair sieve, 
and work in another half pint of cream. Garnish a plain 
mould with tongue or ham and truffles, pour in the 
' mixture, and steam for an hour very slowly. Serve 
with truffle or mushroom sauce, or a clear, but not 
watery brown sauce, or a purde of ham sauce. 

Cigarettes k la Reine. 

Make a forcemeat with the cooked white meat of 
chicken, chopped truffles, and white sauce. This 
forcemeat must be solid enough when cold to be 
placed in thin paste rolled to the length and breadth 
of a cigar. The rolls are lightly coated with very 
fine breadcrumbs, and fried a golden tint. It is im- 
portant that the outer coat should be crisp, and that 
the a la reine forcemeat should melt in the mouth. 
These cigarettes are to be sent up on a napkin, 
arranged in cross bars, two and two. 

The forcemeat may be made of oysters instead of 
chicken. 

Chicken Souffles. 

These can be made with any kind of cooked 
poultry, game, or even meat, or with brains. The 
neatest arrangement for sending them to table is to 
have a supply of thin white china souffle cases, which 
will stand the oven. 

The chicken or other material is to be pounded 
with good stock or sauce, and passed through a 
tamis, the yolk of three or more eggs to be beaten 
and stirred in, and then the whites to be beaten and 



CHICKEN MAYONNAISE, 2di 

tirred in. Fill the souffle case, or cases, and bake 
)r ten minutes, or till the top rises and turns a golden 
Dlour. 

Tomato souffles are made in a similar manner. 
!are must be taken to get rid of the watery part of 
le tomato before mixing with the eggs. 

Chicken Mayonnaise. 

Roast a chicken, and be sure that it is well done. 
!ut it up into suitable joints ; prepare four hard- 
oiled eggs by cutting them in quarters ; slice up a 
jttuce, and arrange the joints of chicken neatly upon 
: high in the centre ; strew olives, anchovies, capers, 
nd gherkins, cut into small pieces, over the chicken, 
lask the whole with a mayonnaise sauce, so that 
othing be seen but the mayonnaise. Have sixteen 
•ieces of white hearts of lettuce, and arrange these in 
border round alternately with the sixteen pieces of 
lard-boiled ^^%, Beetroot should never be used in a 
nayonnaise. 

Little Patties k la Reine. 

■Make some little patties with very light puff paste, 
md fill them with the following mixture : — * 

The breast of chicken, tongue, truffles, and mush- 
ooms, all chopped small and just warmed in white 
jauce. Serve them on a napkin. 

Fillets of Chicken or Supreme de Volaille. 

To make a dish of fillets of chicken, four or six 
chickens and a tongue are required. The fillets are 



202 POULTRY. 

taken from the breast and the best part of the wing 
A good deal of dexterity is required to make the 
most of the breast and to obtain fillets of nearly equal 
size and thickness, and cutlet-shaped, so as to dress in 
a circle alternately with pieces of tongue of the same 
shape and of a bright red colour. 

The fillets are placed in a saut^ pan, with clarified 
butter under them and buttered paper over. They 
must not be allowed to get brown in cooking. Each 
fillet must then have a coating of * Supreme sauce,' 
and then the fillets and pieces of tongue are to be 
dressed in a circle. Truffles are placed in the centre 
(the truffles having been warmed in clear stock for a 
quarter of an hour) and more sauce is placed round 
the fillets. 

This is an ambitious dish, and only a skilled cook 
should attempt it hot. But, as a cold dish or chaud- 
froid, a little practice would enable a painstaking 
person to turn out an elegant entree. 



Broiled Chicken. 

(American Recipe.) 

It is possible to render a tough fowl eatable by 
boiling or stewing it with care. Never broil such ! 
And even when assured that your * broiler ' is young, 
it is wise to make this doubly sure by laying it upon 
sticks extending from side to side of a dripping-pan 
full of boiling water. Set this in the oven, invert a 
tin pan over the chicken, and let it steam for half an 
hour. This process relaxes the muscles, and renders 
supple the joints, besides preserving the juices that 



CHICKEN PUDDING, 203 

would be lost in parboiling. The chicken should be 
split down the back, and wiped perfectly dry before 
it is steamed. Transfer from the vapour-bath to a 
buttered gridiron, inside downward. Cover with a 
tin pan or common plate, and broil until tender and 
brown, turning several times ; from half to three 
quarters of an hour will be sufficient. Put into a hot 
dish, and butter very well. Send to table smoking 
hot. 

Chicken Pudding. 

(American Recipe.) 

Cut up a chicken as for fricassee, and parboil, 
seasoning well with pepper, salt, and a lump of butter 
the size of an egg, to each chicken. The fowls should 
be young and tender, and divided at every joint. 
Stew slowly for half an hour, take them out, and lay 
on a flat dish to cool. Set aside the water in which 
they were stewed for your gravy. 

Make a batter of one quart of milk, three cups 
of flour, three tablespoonsful of melted butter, half a 
teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and a small pinch 
of cream of tartar, with four eggs well beaten, and a 
little salt. Put a layer of chicken in the bottom of 
the dish, and pour about half a cupful of batter over 
it — enough to conceal the meat ; then another layer 
of chicken, and more batter, until the dish i^ full. 
The batter must form the crust. Bake one hour, in a 
moderate oven. 



,204 POULTRY. 

Chicken k la Princesse. 

Braise a chicken. Cut the fillets out of the breast 
into as many cutlets as you want for your entr^. 
Make some white sauce with cream and aspic. Sauce 
the cutlets on one side ; set them to cool, and then 
sauce them on the other. Put a little aspic in the 
bottom of a dish ; when set, put the cutlets all one 
way on the dish, and then cover them with aspic. 
When cold, cut them out and dish them on a border 
of aspic. Serve with Russian salad in the centre and 
croiitons of aspic round. 

Fricassee of Chicken. 

(American Recipe.) 

Clean, wash, and cut up the fowls, which need not 
be so tender as for roasting. Lay them in salt and 
water for half an hour. Put them in a pot with 
enough cold water to cover them, and half a pound 
of salt pork cut into thin strips. Cover closely, and 
let them heat very slowly ; then stew for over an 
hour, if the fowls are tender. Chickens used for 
this purpose have occasionally required four hours 
stewing, but they were tender and good when done. 
Only put them on in time, and cook very slowly ; if 
they boil fast, they toughen and shrink into uneatable* 
ness. When tender, add a chopped onion or two, 
parsley, and pepper. Cover closely again, and, wheir^ 
it has heated to boiling, stir in a teacupful of milk, t<=i 
which have been added two beaten eggs and tw 
tablespoonsful of flour. Boil up fairly ; add a gre^^ 



FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 205 

spoonful of butter. Arrange the chicken neatly in a 
deep dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. In this, 
as in all cases where beaten ^gg is added to hot 
liquor, it is best to dip out a few spoonsful of the 
latter, and drop a little at a time into the ^ggy beat- 
ing at the same time, that it may heat evenly and 
gradually before it is put into the scalding contents 
of the saucepan or pot. Eggs managed in this way 
will not curdle, as they are apt to do if thrown sud- 
denly into hot liquid. 



Fricassee of Chicken. 

(French Recipe.) 

In France, this dish is made with a whole chicken. 
As it must be a delicate white, care must be taken to 
select a chicken with a white skin. The trussing 
must be as for boiling. 

Have a shallow stewpan, melt in it a piece of 

butter, and stir in an ounce of flour. Add enough 

tepid water to make the liquid reach halfway up the 

chicken when laid on its side ; a pinch of salt and a 

small piece of lemon peel are to be put in. Put a 

buttered paper over the stewpan, and over that its 

cover. Let it simmer for three hours ; turn the 

chicken on the other side, and put in either oysters, or 

button mushrooms, or button onions ; simmer again, 

and when done (that is quite tender but not in rags), 

take it out, put it on a dish, and keep warm whilst you 

reduce the sauce if too thin, or make the sauce richer 

by the addition of some cream. The garnish of 

oyst^x^ or mushrooms, &c., must be placed round the 



2o6 POULTRY, 

chicken. As a chicken makes about six helps or 
rations, allow three oysters to each ration, four 
mushrooms, and two onions. It is a good plan to rub 
the chicken with lemon juice, and to blanch in boiling 
water for three minutes before putting in the stewpan. 
This is a far better dish than the English boiled 
fowl. 

Plain Fowl Pillau. 

Truss a fowl as for boiling; put into a braising 
pan with flour, butter, and water, and proceed as for 
fricassee of fowl till three parts done. If possible, 
use stock instead of water. Wash and dry Patna rice 
enough to cover the fowl ; cut up two or three small 
onions, or one Portugal onion, and fry in butter with 
the rice for a very short time. Then add the rice and 
onions, and black peppercorns, to the fowl, and, if 
necessary, moisten with weak stock. When both 
chicken and rice are cooked, place the chicken on the 
dish, and mask it with the rice, garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters, or with tomatoes. In 
India, raisins and more spice would be introduced 
into this dish. A few cardamom seeds stewed with^ 
the rice are a great improvement. 



Mutton and Fowl Pillau. 

(Indian Recipe.) 

Put I lb. of uncooked mutton cut in slices wi 
four whole onions into one quart of water ; boil all t 
together until reduced to one-third ; take it off the fir 
mash the meat in the liquor ; strain through a lin 




FOIVL PILLAU, 207 

cloth, and set it aside. Take 8 ozs. of rice, wash it well, 
and dry by squeezing firmly in a cloth. Melt \ lb. of 
butter in a saucepan ; fry in it a handful of onions sliced 
lengthways. When they have become a brown colour, 
take them out and lay them aside. In the butter that 
remains fry slightly a fowl that has been previously 
parboiled ; take out the fowl, and in the same butter 
add the dry rice and fry it a little ; as the butter 
evaporates add the above broth to it, and boil the 
rice in it ; then put with it ten cloves, ten cardamoms, 
ten black peppercorns, and a very little mace ; add 
green ginger, and one dessert-spoonful of salt with 
the green ginger cut into thin slices. When the rice 
is sufficiently boiled, remove all but a little fire from 
underneath, and place some on the pan cover. If 
the rice be at all hard, add some water to it, and place 
the fowl in the centre to imbibe a flavour. Cover it 
over with the rice, and serve up garnished with hard- 
boiled eggs cut into either halves or quarters. 



Fowl Pillau No. 2. 

Boil a fowl, adding salt, whole black pepper, onion, 
^ kittle ginger, a very little mace, and some cloves 
^^ci raisins. The raisins and spice to be added later 
^^^hx the rice. 

Thoroughly wash and dry some rice — enough to 
'^"^^r the fowl when done. 

J'ry some very finely shred onions in butter, and 
them on one side. 

In this butter slightly fry the rice. 

-Add the rice thus fried to the fowl, and finish them 



2o8 POULTRY, 

off together by simmering till rice and fowl are well 
done and all the liquid absorbed. 

Boil hard two eggs, and cut in quarters for gar- 
nishing. 

Place the fowl on a dish, mask it with the rice, 
crown the top with the finely shred onions, and place 
the quarters of eggs at intervals round the margin of 
the dish. 

Chicken Curry. 

Take two chickens, cut them into joints, fry them 
a light brown in 4 ozs. of butter, take them out, fry 
four large onions in the same butter a light brown. 
Add three tablespoonsful of flour, three of Yeatman's 
curry powder ; mix well together over the fire for 
five minutes, dilute with veal broth, boil slowly fifteeo 
minutes, skim, and strain the chicken ; boil till tender; 
dish the chicken with a border of rice ; reduce the 
sauce to the consistency of melted butter ; serve it 
over the chicken. 

You can add a quarter of a cocoa-nut, four tama- 
rinds, a quarter of a clove of garlic ; these ingredients 
are a great improvement. 



Chicken Curry No. 2. 

(Indian Recipe.) 

Take a chicken weighing about i \ lbs., cut it intQ 
the smallest joints, and wash in water ; sprinkle 
over them a large teaspoonful of salt ; then cut up 
two small onions, and fry them in a stewpan with a 
tablespoonful of butter until brown ; now acTd the 



CHICKEN AND RICE, 209 

chicken to it, and fry for ten minutes longer. This 
being done, add one tablespoonful of curry paste and 
one tablespoonful of curry powder, with three wine- 
glasses of cold water ; stir all well together, and stew 
for ten minutes longer when it is ready. 

The same quantity of mutton, veal, pigeons, mixed 
vegetables, partridges, fish, rabbit, &c., may be sub- 
stituted for chicken. 

Chicken and RicCi or ' Polio con Arroz/ 

(Spanish Recipe.) 

Cut a fowl into joints, wipe quite dry, and trim 
neatly. 

Put a wine-glass of the best olive oil in a stewpan, 
let it get hot, and tect the heat by putting in a bit of 
bread. When the bread is brown the oil is the right 
heat for frying the chicken. Stir and turn the joints, 
and sprinkle with salt. When the chicken is a golden 
brown, add some chopped onions and one or two red 
chillies, and fry all together. Meanwhile have ready 
four tomatoes cut in quarters and two teacups of rice 
well washed. Mix these with the chicken, then pour 
in a very small quantity of broth, and stew till the 
rice is cooked and the broth dried up. Sprinkle a 
little chopped parsley, and serve in a deep dish with- 
out a cover, as the steam must not be kept in. 

Fried Chicken, or 'Gebackene Hiihner/ 

(German Recipe.) 

Young chickens only can be used for this. They 
should be washed clean, and cut up, if small, into four, 



2IQ POULTRY, 

and if large into six parts. Season with salt and a 
little pepper ; roll them in flour ; fry in egg and 
bread crumbs ; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 
Send up mayonnaise sauce in a tureen. 



Chicken k la Romaine. 

Take a good fowl trussed as for boiling. Put into 
a large stewpan four or five tablespoonsful of best 
olive oil, a pinch of salt, a few cloves and a piece of 
mace, a leek, and a bouquet of herbs. When the oil 
is quite hot, put in the chicken and let it cook very 
gently in the oil, moving it from time to time to 
prevent its burning. The fowl must be turned once 
or twice, so that all parts may be equally cooked. 
When it is quite cooked all through, it should be of a 
delicate brown colour. 

Strain out all the vegetables and herbs, and pour 
away some of the oil. Take the fowl out and keep it 
hot. To the oil remaining in the stewpan add a few 
spoonsful of good tomato pur^e, and a little stock. 
Stir well together and stew for about ten minutes. 
Have ready some macaroni well boiled and drained, 
and cut into pieces not more than i^ inches in length. 
Just heat the macaroni in the sauce. Yoy\x rounds b^^ 
not over, the fowl, and serve. 



Roast Chicken k la Dumas. 

Truss the chicken so that the neck is bent in 
closes the aperture ; place the liver and its equiv 
of bacon inside the chicken ; tie it up so that, no 



CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. 2.1 1 

being used, it hangs like a bundle from the bottle- 
jack, the neck part downwards. Keep basting with 
butter and a sprinkle of salt and pepper, and roast 
a rich brown. When done, cut the twine which con- 
fined and suspended the chicken. Put it on the 
proper dish, and pour round it the butter, &c., from 
the dripping-pan. 

But on no account put any stock, broth, or sauce 
over the chicken. 

Chicken si la Mona. 

Truss a chicken as for boiling ; put it in a stewpan 
with \ lb. of streaky bacon cut into squares an inch 
thick. Let it fry till the chicken is become brown all 
over ; pour off all the grease, and add one Portugal 
onion sliced up, one glass of Chablis wine, one gill 
freshly made tomato sauce. Stew gently for i \ hours ; 
keep basting with the sauce from time to time. 

Chicken ^ la Marengo. 

The chickens used for this dish must be young 
and tender. Each chicken is cut up in joints as re- 
presented in the illustration. These joints are to be 
^^ut^ixi oil, with small onions chopped to the size of a 
P^^, and chopped fine herbs and parsley. As the legs 
^^ a.11 chickens require a longer time to cook than the 
other parts, they must be put in five minutes sooner. 
*- *^^ oil must be tested with a crust of bread before the 
^hicl^en is put in ; the colour which the chicken is to 
^^e is a light brown. The oil must be allowed to 
^^ain off ; and a sauce with button mushrooms and a 



p 2 



L 



2T2 POULTRY. . 

squeeze of lemon, or with a tablespoonful of pur^ of 
tomato worked in, must have been prepared to sur- 
round the pile of chicken. The back, the legs, and 
inferior pieces form the basis ; the delicate pieces are 
put at the top. Cro(itons are placed round, with 
crayfish if obtainable. 

Chicken k la Bonne Femme. 

Stew two chickens in stock till they are three 
parts done, then take them out. Have ready a stew- 
pan and make a sauce with ^ pint of the broth in 
which the chickens have been stewed, some butter and 
flour worked together, and simmer for half an hour ; 
then add the juice of half a lemon and the yolks of four 
eggs. Season with pepper and salt, cut the chickens 
in joints, warm, and pour the sauce over. 

It is better not to send up the legs if the chickens 
are not young, but to return them to the stock, 
crushing the bone ; and to boil it down, strain, and 
make a mould of chicken jelly with the stock. 

Chicken k la Chabert. 

Cut a tender chicken in neat joints, season slightly^ 
with salt, white and red pepper, and fry in butter — 
When each joint on both sides is a rich golden browr""* 
colour, add a little chopped parsley, and either choppeciS 
onions or a very small quantity of garlic, and a tables — 
spoon of rich meat gravy. Meanwhile have read^^^ 
four tomatoes, cut in quarters, cleaned of their seed^^ 
and fried in oil, with a touch of garlic or with choppecJ 
onions. 



GALANTINE OF CHICKEN, 213 

Mix the chicken and tomatoes, and let it stew for 
few minutes. In dressing the chicken on a dish, 
lace the tomatoes around. 



Galantine of Chicken. 

The chicken must be dexterously boned by an 
pening made at the back, the skin everywhere being 
ept whole. The joints of the limbs must be severed 
aside ; as little of the flesh as possible must be cut off 
n the operation. A sharp small knife, a pair of sharp 
icissors, and a good deal of practice are required for the 
)peration. All the pieces of flesh which have to come 
3Ut in removing the bones, and the bits which are cut 
3ff the carcass, must be chopped up with ham, fat 
Won, and pounded veal ; large dice of tongue, 
'ruffles cut in small dice, pepper and salt, and the 
^olk of egg boiled hard should then be added. 

When this stuffing is ready, it is placed inside the 
hicken, and distributed so as to make the outside 
^in shapely. The back is neatly sewn up. The 
Sicken must then be placed in a cloth which is sewn 
''Jnd it, and tied at each end, the shape being that 
^ bolster. It must be braised in weak broth for 
^^ hours, and allowed to cool before being taken out 
the cloth. The galantine must be glazed before 
•^ciing to table. 

Bordeaux pigeons are excellent thus prepared. 
^^y are cut in two or four pieces when cold, neatly 
^^^ssed in a circle, the centre filled with broken aspic 
^^Yy and croutons of aspic jelly placed as a border. 



214 POULTRY, 



To Bone a Turkey or Fowl without opening it 

After the fowl has been drawn and singed, wipe it 
inside and out with a clean cloth, but do not wash it ; 
take off the head ; cut through the skin all round the 
first joints of the legs, and pull them from the fowl to 
draw out the large tendons. Raise the flesh first from 
the lower part of the back-bone, and a little also from 
the end of the breast-bone if necessary ; work the 
knife gradually to the socket of the thigh with the 
point ; detach the joint from it ; take the end of the 
bone firmly into the fingers, and cut the flesh clean 
from it down to the next joint, round which pass the 
point of the knife carefully, and when the skin is 
loosened from it in every part, cut round the next 
bone, keeping the edge of the knife close to it until 
the whole of the leg is done. Remove the bones of 
the other leg in the same manner ; then detach the 
flesh from the back and breast bone sufficiently to 
enable you to reach the upper joints of the wings. 
Proceed with these as with the legs, but be especially 
careful not to pierce the skin of the second joint K 
is usual to leave the pinions unboned, in order to give 
more easily its natural form to the fowl when it is 
dressed. The merry-thought and neck bones may 
now easily be cut away, the back and side bones taken 
out without being divided, and the breast-bone sepa- 
rated carefully from the flesh (which, as the work pro- 
gresses, must be turned back from the bones upon the 
fowl until it is completely inside out). After the one 
remaining bone is removed, draw the wings and legs 



RABBITS, 215 

back to their proper form, and turn the fowl the right 
side outwards. 

A turkey is boned exactly in the same manner ; 
but as it requires a very large proportion of forcemeat 
to fill it entirely, the legs and wings are sometimes 
drawn into the body to diminish the expense of this. 
If very securely trussed and sewn, the bird may be 
either boiled or stewed in rich gravy, or roasted, after 
being boned and stuffed. 

Chicken Pie with Potato Crust. 

This is an excellent dish for a picnic or out-of- 
doors luncheon. 

The pie is to be made of chicken, pigeons, or game, 
with a coarse ordinary crust Remove that crust 
when cold ; place the contents of the pie in a deeper 
oval dish, allowing one and a half inches at top for 
the potato (the best kind of dish is the Sheffield 
baking-pan). Prepare some 
smooth mashed potato, and 
cover the remade pie with 
this, but do not allow it to be 
higher than the sides of the 
dish. Bake in the oven till ^^^^^'^^-^ baking pan. 

the potato is a light brown. This pie packs and 
travels, and eats far better than when flour crust is 
the covering. 

Rabbits. 

All the recipes given for chickens are equally ap- 
plicable to rabbits. But as there is no fat on a rabbit, 




2i6 RABBITS. 

it is always desirable to cook bacon or fat pork with 
the rabbit, even if not sent up with the disL 

Grenadins of Rabbit. 

Grenadins of rabbit are a satisfactory entree ; and 
the parts not used can be made into soup, or pies. 

The grenadins are made by taking the whole 
length of the back bone, with the fillet attached to 
each side. The bone is then divided into sections 
about two inches thick, and the pieces are neatly 
trimmed so as to be circular and shapely. They 
must be larded like little fricandeaus, and braised in 
a shallow braising pan, with buttered paper over 
them like a fricandeau. Dress in either an oblong or 
round dish, with spinach or sorrel in the centre, and 
brown sauce round. Set each grenadin by itself in 
dressing the dish, not overlapping, as cutlets. 

Boudins of Rabbit. 

Take the fillets of two young rabbits, fry in butter 
or olive oil, with a few chopped onions, drain the 
rabbit, and pound in the mortar. Bake some potatoes 
in their skins, dig out the inside and mix with the 
pounded rabbit, season with * pelures de truffes,' incor- 
porate half a pound of the fat of either gammon, or 
bacon which has been boiled, and stir in four eggs 
well beaten. Form the whole into a long roll ; sur- 
round with a strong white paper, well buttered, and 
long enough at the ends to pinch over. 

Plunge in boiling water] then withdraw the sauce- 
pan from the strong heat, and simmer for ten minutes. 



GEESE AND DUCKS. 217 

^lace in a dish which suits the shape, and surround 
nth. sauce, in which either truffles or dark mushrooms 
re mixed. 

The remains of a boudin may be cut in slices and 
warmed, dressed in a circle, and surrounded with the 
ime sauce. 

Barbecued Rabbit. 

(American Recipe.) 

Clean and wash the rabbit, which must be plump 
nd young, and having opened it all the way on '.the 
nder side, lay it flat, with a small plate or saucer to 
eep it down, in salted water for half an hour. Wipe 
ry and broil whole, (with the exception of the head) 
'hen you have gashed across the backbone in eight 
r ten places, that the heat may penetrate this, the 
lickest part. Your fire should be hot and clear, the 
ibbit turned often. When browned and tender lay 
pen a very hot dish, pepper and salt, and butter 
rofusely, turning the rabbit over and over to soak up 
le melted butter. Cover and set in the oven for five 
linutes, and heat in a tin cup two tablespoonsful of 
inegar seasoned with one of made mustard. Anoint 
le hot rabbit well with this, cover, and send to table 
arnished with crisp parsley. 

Geese and Ducks. 

These birds require to be well roasted, to be 
tuffed with onions and sage, and to have both plain 
^ravy and apple or tomato sauce sent up with them, 
rhey require some days to become tender ; no rul^ 



2i8 DUCKS. 

can be given, as the conditions of hanging depend on 
the daily changes of temperature and the time of the 
year. A tough goose, a tough duck, are peculiarly 
unsatisfactory dishes. In the case of ducks, braising 
will produce an excellent dish, and this should always 
be the mode of cooking if there is any risk of tough- 
ness. 

Braised Ducks. 

Let the duck brown in a stewpan in boiling lard 
or dripping. Take out the duck ; dredge flour into 
the stewpan, and work it well and smoothly with the 
dripping. Then mix in broth till there is enough to 
half cover the duck. Season with pepper and salt, 
and a bunch of fine herbs, and braise till tender. 

Green peas, or turnips cut to the shape of olives 
and browned in butter and sugar, may be braised with 
the duck ; or olives may be stoned, blanched in boil- 
ing water, and warmed for a few minutes with the 
braised duck. A young goose may be braised in the 
same manner. The time required for a duck is two 
hours, and for a goose three hours. 

Braised Ducks k la St. Michel. 

Rub some flour and oil over the ducks, and brown 
in the oven for a short time. 

Mix together a cup of Chablis wine and a cup of 
broth ; season with pepper and salt ; braise the ducks 
till they are tender, but not in rags. Have ready 
chopped mushrooms, chibbals, and parsley ; mix these 
with the broth in which the duck was braised. P"^ 



PIGEONS. 119 

the ducks to keep warm before the fire whilst you let 
the sauce * reduce/ Dredge in a very little flour, and 
send up the ducks with the sauce round them. 

Observe that the ducks are to look a brown^ not a 
pale sodden colour. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Line a pie dish with thin slices of fat bacon, place 
on this the pigeons cut in quarters, three pigeons to a 
pie. Fill in the interstices with veal taken from the 
loin or leg (of course uncooked), season with pepper 
and salt, and proceed as to the crust in the same way 
as in making other meat pies. Make an opening in 
the centre of the crust by sticking in a bit of bone, and 
Whilst the pie is baking pour in through this a little 
good broth. When the pie is finished the claws of 
the pigeons are used to ornament this opening, and to 
show what the pie contains. Pigeons should be killed 
by having their necks wrung. 

Pigeon Cutlets. 

Take the fillets of four pigeons — that is, the meat 
from each side of the breast, cut out with a sharp 
knife from the breast-bone to the wing-bones ; this 
produces eight fillets, which are enough for one entrde. 
M^hen double entries are wanted, eight pigeons must 
be used. The fillets are to be beaten with a cutlet 
bat and a little trimmed, and fried in breadcrumbs 
and ^^'g, A small bone from the wing is stuck in 
each cutlet to simulate the bone of a mutton cutlet. 
The carcasses of the pigeons can be used to make the 



220 PIGEONS. 

sauce, or for a pur^e of pigeon soup. Surround with 
a fumet of game sauce. 

Pigeons aux Petits Pois. 

Take four young pigeons, and brown them in 
butter ; cut into dice — about twenty-four dice — some 
streaky bacon ; soak and wash in tepid water, and 
half fry in the same butter in which the pigeons were 
browned. Stir in a large spoonful of flour, and place 
the pigeons, cut into neat joints, in the stewpan. Then 
stir in some stock and a seasoning of chopped onions, 
parsley, &c. Put the stewpan on the side of the 
stove, and let it simmer. When half done add a 
pint of young peas ; stir till they are cooked. If the 
sauce is too thin, the pigeons and peas must be taken 
out, and kept warm whilst the sauce is reduced. 
Arrange the pigeons and bacon as neatly as you can 

on a dish with the peas, and pour the sauce over. 

( 

Devilled Duck or Teal. 

(Indian Recipe.) 

Get a good plateful of onions, a piece of green 
ginger, and six or eight chillies.- Reduce them to a pulp 
as for curry, then add two teaspoonsful of mustard, 
pepper, salt, cayenne, and chutney, two tablespoonsful 
of catsup, and half a bottle of claret. Cut up the 
duck or teal, and put it into the sauce, which must 
simmer for a long time. The duck must be previously 
roasted, or it will want double the quantity of sauce. 



LARKS, 221 

Devilled Legs of Poultry. 

( Indian Recipe.) 

Score the legs of a roasted turkey, goose, or fowl ; 
sprinkle them well with cayenne, black pepper, and 
salt ; broil them well, and pour over the following 
sauce : — 

Take three spoonsful of gravy, one of butter rubbed 
in a little flour, one of lemon-juice, a glass of port 
wine, a teaspoonful of mustard, some chilli vinegar, a 
teaspoonful of mushroom catsup, and one of Harvey 
sauce. Warm up and serve in a boat. 

If very highly seasoned, it may be served without 
sauce. 

Salmis of Larks. 

If larks are fat and in good order, a dozen ought 
to weigh 14 ozs. 

Take a dozen larks which have been drawn, 
picked, and singed ; save the livers. Sautez\\\<t larks 
till they are half done ; make a forcemeat with the 
livers, any cold game or chicken, a little boiled bacon 
fat, and some chopped truffles. Fill the inside of the 
larks ; arrange them on a silver or china dish, with 
fried toast underneath each lark. Lay slices of bacon 
on the top, and over that a buttered paper ; let the 
dish cook in the .oven for about twenty minutes ; re- 
move the paper and bacon ; sprinkle browned bread- 
crumbs over the larks, and send up in the same dish. 
Serve a sauce separately. 



222 GAME, 



CHAPTER XX. 
GAME. 

To Keep Game from Tainting. 

Draw as soon as the birds come into your possession ; 
rinse with soda and water, then with pure cold water. 
Wipe dry, and rub them lightly with a mixture of fine 
salt and black pepper. If you wish to keep them 
some time, put in the cavity of each bird a piece of 
charcoal ; hang them in a cool dark place, with a 
cloth thrown over them. Small birds, unless there 
are too many of them, may be kept in a refrigerator 
after you have drawn, washed, and wiped them. 

The charcoal is an admirable preventive of decom- 
position. 

To Roast Game. 

Prepare and truss as a fowl ; do not wash the bird, 
but wipe it dry. Put black ground pepper and a piece 
of butter inside the bird, and hang before a brisk fire, 
basting it well with butter. Shortly before it is done, 
which will be from a quarter of an hour to twenty 
minutes, put some toast below the bird, and let the 
butter drop upon it. Serve with breadcrumbs, and 
bread sauce if liked. 



GAME, 223 

Haunch of Venison. 

If the outside be hard, wash with lukewarm water; 
then rub all over with fresh butter and lard. Cover 
it on the top and sides with a paste of flour and 
water, nearly half an inch thick. Lay upon this a 
large sheet of thin white wrapping-paper well buttered, 
and above this thick foolscap. Keep all in place by 
greased packthread, then put down to roast with a 
little water in the dripping-pan. Let the fire be 
steady and strong. Pour a few ladlesful of butter 
and water over the meat now and then to prevent the 
paper from scorching. If the haunch is large, it will 
take at least five hours to roast. About half an hour 
before you take it up, remove the papers and paste, 
and test with a skewer to see if it is done. If this 
passes easily to th.e bone through the thickest part, set 
it down to a more moderate fire, and baste every few 
minutes with claret and melted butter. At the last, 
baste with butter, dredge with flour to make a light 
froth, and dish. It should be a fine brown by this 
time. Twist a frill of fringed paper round the knuckle. 

For gravy, put into a saucepan a pound or so of 
scraps of raw venison left from trimming the haunch, 
a quart of water, a pinch of cloves, a few blades of mace, 
half a nutmeg, cayenne and salt to taste. Stew slowly 
to one-half the original quantity. Skim, strain, and re- 
turn to the saucepan when you have rinsed it with hot 
water. Add three tablespoonsful of currant jelly, a 
glass of claret, two tablespoonsful of butter, and thicken 
with browned flour. Send to table in a sauce-boat. 

Red currant jelly is always handed with venison. 



224 VENISON. 



Neck of Venison. 

A neck of venison should be used as a neck of 
mutton, for the three purposes of soup, haricot cutlets, 
and a * roast.' 

The breast will make venison pasty, and stock or 
gravy. 

Hashed Venison. 

It is desirable to have very rich gravy made from 
uncooked venison. If this cannot be had, stock made 
from hare, and thickened with the blood of the hare, is 
to be used ; failing this, take good stock with gravy 
from the haunch, and * roux * to thicken it, some claret 
and herb-flavour, and a pinch of sugar. Slices from 
the haunch of venison are to be cut thin, and warmed 
in the sauce. They must be heated through, but not 
allowed to cook in the sauce. Hashed venison must 
be sent up in a deep dish with a spirit lamp burning 
under it ; and red currant jelly in a tureen. 

Venison Pasty. 

(American Recipe.) 

Almost any part of the deer can be used for the 
purpose, but the neck and shoulders are generally pre- 
ferred. 

Cut the raw venison from the bones, and set 
aside these with the skin, fat, and refuse bits fo^ 
gravy. Put them into a saucepan with a shall^^^ 
pepper, salt, and sweet herbs. Cover with cold ws 




VENISON. 225 

and set on to stew. Meanwhile cut the better pieces 
of the meat into squares an inch long, and cook in 
another saucepan until three-quarters done. Line a 
deep dish with good puff paste. That for the lid 
should be made after the recipe following this. Put 
in the squares of venison. Season with pepper, salt, 
and butter, and put in half a cupful of the liquor in 
which the meat was stewed, to keep it from burning 
at the bottom. Cover with a lid of the prepared 
pastry an inch thfck. Cut a round hole in the middle, 
and if you have not a small tin cylinder that will fit 
this, make one of buttered paper ; stiff writing- 
paper is best. The hole should be large enough to 
admit your thumb. Bake steadily, covering the top 
with a sheet of clean paper as soon as ft is firm, to 
prevent it from browning too fast. While it is cook- 
ing prepare the gravy. When all the substance has 
been extracted from the bones, &c., strain the liquor 
back into the saucepan ; let it come to a boil, and 
when you have skimmed carefully, add a glass of 
port wine, a tablespoonful of butter, the juice of a 
lemon, and some brown flour to thicken. Boil up 
once, remove the plug from the hole in the pastry, 
arid pour in through a small funnel, or paper horn, as 
much gravy as the pie will hold. Do this very 
quickly ; brush the crust over with beaten Qgg, and 
put back in the oven until it is a golden brown. The 
P^e should only be drawn to the door of the oven for 
these operations, and everything should be in readiness 
fc^jfore it is taken out, that the crust may be light and 
feJc37, If you have more gravy than you need for the 
^^^tx^ serve in a sauce-boat. 



226 HARE, 

Crust of Pasty. 

I i lbs. flour ; Salt ; 

1 2 ozs. butter ; Iced water 

3 eggs ; 

X^xy and sift the flour, and work up half the butter 
in it ; salt, and work up with iced water, lastly adding 
the eggs beaten very light. Work out rapidly, hand- 
ling as little as possible. Roll out three times very 
thin, adding the rest of the butter, then into a lid 
nearly an inch thick, reserving an inner one for orna- 
ments. Having covered in your pie, cut from the 
second sheet with a cake cutter, leaves, flowers, stars, 
or any figure you like to adorn the top of your crust 

Bake the centre ornament upon a tin plate by 
itself, and brush it over with ^^^ when you glaze the 
pie. After the pasty is baked, cover the hole in the 
middle with this. 

Bake two or three hours, guiding yourself by th^ 
size of the pie. It is good hot, but better cold. 

To Bone a Hare. 

The hare must l>e a freshly killed one. Clear th^ 
back-bone from tTie flesh on the inside, lay this bacl^ 
from the centre of the bone to the ribs, work th.^^ 
knife quite to the spine, and when the whole i^ 
detached except the skrn which adheres to thi^» 
.separate the bone at the first joint from the neck-bon^> 
and pass the knife with caution under the skin, dowr^ 
the middle of the back. The head is to be kept ori 5 
the legs and shoulder-bones may either be left on o^ 



HARE. 227 

moved. The trunk, after the spine and ribs are re- 
oved, is to be filled with a forcemeat or bread stuffing, 
he under skin is to be neatly sewn up, and the whole 
icurely fastened round with string and skewers before 
>asting. The bones can be used for soup or gravy. 

The object of boning a hare is to facilitate the 
arving. The question, therefore, is whether the cook 
» skilful enough to do the form of carving called 
oning. 

Jugged Hare, or * Civet de Lifevre.' 

Cut a hare into pieces of such a size that each is 
nioderate helping. Save the blood. Cut up some 
"eaky bacon in dice, and fry partially, then fry 
- hare slightly in the fat in which the bacon has 
^n fried, and then fry some button onions, or an 
ion cut in dice, in the same fat, mix some dried 
^r in the fat, and stir it in a pint of broth, put this 
^ stewpan with the hare, bacon, pepper, and fine 
*t>s. The bacon supplies enough salt Let it simmer 

the hare is becoming tender ; the time depends 
the age of the hare, and may be hardly one hour 
quite two hours. A tumbler of claret is to be 
*^ed in gradually with the blood and the onions, 
d the simmering is to continue another half-hour. 
•J^e hot in a deep dish with a garnish of fried 
^Pets. There must be enough sauce for each help- 
g, but on no account must it be thin. If the mixture 
f the blood has not made the sauce thick, a little 
^re dried flour may be dredged in. 

If it is wished to have hare soup next day, the 

Q2 



228 GAME. 

remains of the jugged hare will make a puree soup 
with stock. 

Fillets of Hare. 

Cut some neat fillets from the backs and haunches 
of two hares ; lard them thickly. Put a little olive oil 
in the frying-pan with some chopped onion, lay in 
the fillets, the larded side uppermost, and fry lightly. 
Make a sauce with stock, claret, and * roux,' finish 
cooking the fillets in this, dress in a circle and sur- 
round with the sauce. Always take care that the 
points of bacon stand up, or the appearance of a 
larded dish is spoiled. 



Guisado. 

(Spanish Recipe.) 

Take hare, partridge, pheasant, or even rabbit, 
cut it up, save the blood, the liver, and the giblets ; 
do not wash the pieces, but dry them in a cloth ; fry 
them with sliced onions in a teacup of oil till browned ; 
take an oila (a jar), put in these bits with the oil, 
equal portions of red wine and stock (the wine may 
be Claret or Valdepenas), a few bits of bacon, onions, 
garlic, a bunch of thyme or herbs, salt, pepper, chillies ; 
let it simmer, and skim carefully ; half an hour 
before serving, add the giblets. The stew should be 
stirred with a wooden spoon, the grease must be 
skimmed off as it rises to the surface, and the progress 
of the cooking ascertained by feeling with a fork : 
the meat must be ready to come away from the 
bones, but must not have come away. 



GAME. 229 

Leveret {sautk). 

Cut a young leveret in pieces of a moderate sizq, 
and as nearly of a uniform shape as possible. Put it 
in a stewpan, with butter, and a seasoning of pepper 
and salt ; let it sauter till both sides have set, then 
throw in chopped onions, button mushrooms, and 
enough broth and wine mixed to come just over the 
surface of the pieces, dredge in a little flour, and 
simmer till the hare is quite tender and done. Serve 
with sippets of fried toast. 



Chartreuse of Partridge. 

Take two full-grown partridges — old birds are 
best, but they must be fresh — lard with bacon, cut up 
some bacon in dice, and some sausages in pieces, and 
braise in good stock, with the usual seasoning, till 
the partridges are tender. Let the- bacon, &c., stew 
longer. Meanwhile parboil some cabbages, carrots, and 
turnips. Line a plain mould — which must not be too 
deep — with these vegetables arranged in patterns ; 
put in the partridges, sausages, and bacon ; press in 
quite tight ; cover with a buttered paper ; and finish 
in the bain-marie. Take care not to have the sauce 
in the chartreuse, or it will fall to pieces ; but either 
pour round or serve in a sauce tureen. 

Pigeons may be substituted for partridges. 



2^o PARTRIDGE, 

Partridge and Cabbage. 

The partridges must not be young ; well-grown 
old birds are best. They must be trussed as chickens 
are for boiling, and slightly browned in the saut/-^Kn, 

Put them in the braising pan with some bacon or 
gammon cut in dice, and two onions ; surround with 
stock, and braise till three-parts done. 

Have ready some nice tender cabbage ; blanch, 
drain, and dry it. Finish the cooking of the cabbage 
and the partridges in the braising pan. Place the 
cabbage on a dish, and the partridges on the cabbage, 
with the bits of bacon round. Take away the onions ; 
let the sauce reduce (or boil away), keeping the part- 
ridges warm meanwhile, and then pour round, and 
serve. 

Pheasants or pigeons may be dressed in the same 
way. 

Souffle of Partridge. 

Take the flesh of roast partridges, free from skin 
or sinew, and pound in a mortar ; moisten with rich 
gravy, season with pepper and salt, and pass the 
whole through a tamis. Mix in a small quantity of 
butter ; warm in a stewpan, and then add the yolks 
of four eggs. The whites must be beaten to a snow, 
and then carefully stirred in. Pour the mixture into 
a silver souffle-case, or into a number of little china 
cases, and bake till it rises. Send up at once, with 
sauce — a clear, rich, brown sauce— in a tureen. 

This souffle can be made with any kind of cold 
bird, or even with cold meat. 



k 



PHEASANT, 231 

Pheasant i la Soubise. 

The pheasants thus dressed need not be young ; 
but they must not be much knocked about by shot. 

Truss as a boiled chicken, and then braise in good 
stock, with a layer of bacon, vegetables, and fine herbs. 
When tender, carefully remove from the braising pan ; 
let them drain ; place before the fire, that the surface 
may dry. Then dish up, with soubise sauce over 
them and around. 

Partridges may be dressed in the same way. 

Celery sauce or chestnut sauce maybe substituted 
for soubise sauce. 

Pheasant i la St Cloud 

Bone a fine cock pheasant, and fill with the fol- 
lowing mixture : — 

Take the flesh of one or two woodcock or snipe 
(or, in default of these, of partridge, or even rabbit) ; 
use the livers of all the birds, and the inside fat ; 
chop very small ; add \ lb. of truffles cut into small 
dice, some fine herbs, pepper and salt, and the yolks 
of three eggs. Mix thoroughly. 

Sew the pheasant up neatly, keeping it a good 
cushion shape. Roast carefully in a cradle spit, 
basting with Chablis wine. Place toast under to re- 
ceive the gravy ; and serve on the toast. 

The sauce is to be Italian sauce with chopped 
truffles added to it. 



232 GAME, 

Sahnis x)f Game. 

Cut cold roast partridges, grouse, or quails into 
joints, and lay aside while you prepare the gravy. This 
is made of the bones, trimmings, skin, and general 
odds and ends, after you have selected the neatest 
pieces X3f the birds. Put these scraps into a saucepan, 
with one small onion minced and a bunch of sweet 
herbs ; pour in a pint of waiter, and whatever gravy 
you may have, and stew, closely covered, for nearly 
an hour. A few bits • of fat pork should be added if 
you have; no gravy. Skim and strain, return to the 
fire, and add a little brown sherry and lemon-juice ; 
thicken with brown flour if necessary ; boil up, and 
pour over the. reserved meat, which should be put into 
another saucepan. Warm until all is smoking hot, 
but dc not let it boil. Arrange the pieces of bird in 
a symmetrical heap upon a dish, and pour the gravy 
over them. 

.Salmis of Partridge or Woodcock No. 2. 

It is necessary that game used for salmis should 
not be high. Three birds are required for a dish. 

Truss the birds as for roasting, and sautez in butter 
in a stewpan. Let them become half cold, and then 
cut off the wings and legs from the carcass, and 
separate the breast ; trim each piece and remove the 
skin. Take the carcasses, trimmings, and some fat 
bacon, and prepare a little strong gravy to mix with 
ordinary brown sauce. Fry the livers in butter ; pound 
and mix with the sauce ; warm, skim, and pass 



QUAILS. 233 

through a sieve. Warm the joints of bird in the 
sauce, and dress them on the dish : the six legs form 
the base, the six wings are placed on the legs, and 
the three breasts at the top. Garnish with fried 
croOtons, truffles, and mushrooms. 

Quails. 

Each quail must be covered with vine leaves and 
a thin slice of fat bacon, so that only the ends of the 




BARDED QUAn.S. 

legs may be exposed to the free action of the fire 
whilst roasting. Place them on a skewer with toast 
underneath to catch the gravy. Serve very hot, with 
the toast. 

Compote of Quails. 

Truss the quails with- their legs inside ; sautez 
them in butter for a minute or two, then put them in 
a stewpan with a sweetbread cut in slices, a slice of 
ham, button piushrooms and truffles cut in dice, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, some rich stock into which a 
glass of Chablis has been stirred, and some baked 
flour. Simmer till the quails are done ; take them 
out and keep warm whilst you remove the ham and 



234 GAME, 

herbs from the sauce ; add a squeeze of lemon, and 
reduce it to the proper consistency. Serve in a hash 
or deep dish with crofltons round. 



Salmis of Snipe or Woodcock. 

Surround the breast and back with slices of bacon 
and par-roast the birds. Let them cool ; strip off the 
bacon and the skin. Trim, and divide into two or 
four pieces. Prepare a fumet of game sauce. 

The pieces of woodcock or snipe are to be 
warmed — not boiled — in good stock. They are to be 
neatly arranged on the dish surrounded with the 
game sauce and garnished with croOtons. 

Game intended for salmis must be fresh, and if 
any part is tainted by the shot, it must be cut out. 
The trail of a fresh woodcock can be mixed with the 
sauce in making. 

Wild Duck, Teal, Widgeon. 

These birds must not be over-roasted ; they must 
come to table with a rich brown surface, but with their 
own gravy inside. Cayenne pepper and sections of 
lemon are served with them, but bigarade sauce 
should also be sent up when oranges are in seasotL 

Wild fowl sometimes have a fishy taste, which is 
extremely objectionable. By skinning. in some cases, 
and by only using the fillets from the breasts in others, 
an excellent dish may be secured. The fillets should 
be broiled or saut^, and the sauce should be seasoned 
with lemon-juice and cayenne pepper. 



GAME. 235 

Ptarmigan. 

The only way to treat this bird is to roast it, with 
such precautions as may obviate the defect of dryness. 
This may be done by larding the breast thickly, by 
tying a large piece of bacon over the whole bird, or by 
placing inside breadcrumbs saturated with butter. 

Ptarmigan must be frequently basted whilst roast- 
ing ; toast must be allowed to brown in the dripping- 
pan, and be placed under each bird ; gravy and 
fried breadcrumbs are to be sent up in tureens. 

Roast Snipe or Plover. 

Clean and truss ; lay in rows in the dripping- 
pan, or tie upon a spit ; sprinkle with salt, and bastd 
well with butter, then with 
butter and water. When 
they begin to brown — 
which will be in about ten 
minutes — cut as many 
rounds of bread without 
crust as there are birds. 

TRIVET FOR ROASTING. 

Toast quickly, butter, and 

lay in the dripping-pan with a bird over each. When 
the birds are done, serve upon the toast with the 
gp-avy poured over it. The tOcist should lie under them 
while cooking at least five minutes, during which 
time the birds should be basted with melted butter 
seasoned with pepper. 

The largest snipe will not require above twenty 
minutes to roast. 




236 GAME, 



Game Pie. 

Take two or more kinds of game, and be sure they 
are quite fresh. Remove any part that may be tainted 
by the shot, or any other cause. Cut off the meat in 
large and neat pieces ; put in a mortar the smaller 
fragments with some half-boiled bacon, pound and 
mix thoroughly, and season. If convenient cut up 
truffles and bits of tongue, and add. Set the bones 
on in a little cold water, and simmer till you have a 
small quantity of rich broth. 

Place the large pieces and the pounded portions 
in alternate layers in a deep dish (which fits into an 
outer dish of ornamental ware), moisten with the broth, 
cover with a flour and water paste, bake for three 
hours, let it get cold, remove the paste, and put the 
dish in its ornamental frame, cover with broken bits 
of aspic jelly and set croutons of aspic jelly all round, 
fold a napkin on a large dish, put the game-pie dish 
on it, and arrange a wreath of parsley at the base. 

Pheasant, Game, or Chicken Pie No. 2. 

Cut up the birds into neat joints ; break the bones 
of the legs, and beat the flesh of the legs. Remove 
the bony parts of the carcass, and put them in a stew- 
pan, with the usual seasoning, to make stock for the 
pie. 

Line the bottom of a deep pie-dish — brown earthen- 
ware dishes are best — with slices of bacon, lay in the 
birds, sprinkle with fine herbs, pepper, and salt, and, 



CHA UD-FROID. 237 

if liked, put in some, truffles or hard-boiled eggs. 
Place a layer of paste on the edge of the pie-dish, and 
more slices of bacon on the birds. Cover with paste. 
Make an ornamental centre, and stick in a bone, 
which is to be taken out when the pie is baked, and a 
funnel passed in, through which the stock from the 
carcass is to be poured in. The pie must be baked 
for three hours, and the gravy or stock is to be in- 
troduced at the last moment. 



Chaud-froid. 

In all the preparations of chicken or game called 
chaud-froid, a rich sauce flavoured with the kind of 
bird for which it is to be the coating, and white or 
brown as the dish is to be white or brown, is to be 
mixed with a third of the quantity of meat jelly of 
the same colour; whilst this sauce is in a liquid state, 
the fillets or joints of chicken, quail, partridge, or 
other bird are dipped in it, so as to be completely 
coated ; they are then placed to cool. When cold 
there ought to be a uniform semi-transparent and 
perfectly smooth jelly over the fillet or joint. A dish 
is formed by placing the fillets in a circle. 

As it is important that this dish should be ex- 
quisitely neat, the fillets or little joints must be cut 
and trimmed to a uniform size and shape ; it is not 
absolutely necessary to remove all bone, but any 
bone which projects must be got rid of; it is with 
these fragments that the sauce is prepared. The 
quails, woodcocks, or partridges are to be roasted 
with a buttered paper over them, and the sauce will 



238 GAME, 

be made brown for them. Chicken is to be braised 
white, and the chaud froid sauce is to be white. A 
Httle basis of toast to each small fillet of quail may 
be neatly arranged. A small slice of tongue can be 
introduced when the dish is made of chicken. 

Omelette Souffl^e of Game. 

Pound the breast of a partridge and a large truffle, 
and stir into an omelette mixture. A little salt and 
a touch of white pepper must be added. Bake in a 
souffle dish or in little china cups. 



CURR V. 239 



CHAPTER XXI. 
VARIOUS SAVOURY DISHES. 

011a Podrida. 

(Ford's * Spain.') 

Take two earthenware jars ; place in No. i beans 
or lentils which have been soaked for twelve hours, a 
chicken or old hen, a piece of beef, a piece of bacon, 
enough water to cover these materials. Stew four 
hours. 

Place in No. 2 lettuces, cabbage, carrots, turnips 
or kohl rabi, celery, onions, chillies, red sausages and 
half a salted pig's face which has been soaked for 
twelve hours. Water to cover stew as No. i. Skim 
both jars, drain and throw away the water of No. 2 ; 
use that of No. i as gravy. 

In a large dish arrange chicken and pig's face in 
centre, bacon &c. around on the vegetables. Serve 
very hot. 

Curry. 

Fry some sliced onions till brown, in butter. Take 
out the onions and reserve. Mix the curry powder in 
a little stock, or water, till it is of the consistency of 
cream. Stir this in the butter out of which you have 
taken the onions, and let it cook for ten minutes. 



240 CURRIED KABOBS. 

Cut the meat into dice, or, if chicken, into joints; 
slice up one or two onions and apples, and stew all 
together in the curry sauce for one and a half or two 
hours, adding more stock if wanted. 

The curry sauce must be cooked long enough for 
the grains of curry powder and the butter to separate, 
and the meat must be tender enough to be eaten 
with a spoon. The browned onions are to be mixed 
in, and just allowed to get hot, before serving the 
curry. Always buy the best curry powder and paste. 

Curried Kabobs. 

For this dish you require a set of small skewers— 
silver or plated ; but ordinary metal or wood skewers 
will answer the purpose ; they must not be more than 
four inches long. 

Cut up the meat — beef, mutton, or veal— into 
pieces about the size of a shilling, and about one-quarter 
of an inch thick ; and cut an equal number of pieces of 
green ginger and onions, of as nearly as possible the 
same size. Put them on the skewers, alternating a 
piece of meat, of onion, and of ginger. Prepare a 
curry sauce as for ordinary curry, and cook the 
kabobs in it. Serve with boiled rice in a separate 
dish. 

This dish may be made with cold meat. 

Indian Sandwiches. 

Slices of bread cut with the circular cutter are to be 
fried in butter, and the following preparation is to be 
placed between two of the slices. 



CURRY, 241 

Mince the meat of a cold pheasant or chicken very 
fine ; mix with it an equal quantity of ham or tongue ; 
stir in two spoonsful of white sauce, a teaspoon ful of 
curry paste, and the juice of a lemon. Warm in a 
stewpan, and place between the slices of bread. 
Arrange on a napkin ; serve hot. 

Curry made with Australian Meat from a Tin. 

Turn out the contents of the tin, and separate the 
meat, the fat, and the jelly. 

Fry in the fat some sliced carrots, turnips, and 
onions, with an apple or tomato. Dissolve the jelly 
in water, and stir in some curry powder and curry 
paste. Stew the fried vegetables in this mixture. Cut 
up the meat with a very sharp knife, and just let it 
warm in the vegetable curry, but do not boil. Send 
up rice as with other curries. If liked, use mustard 
flour instead of curry powder. 

Tinned Meat, with Rice. 

Put in a large earthen jar i lb. of rice, and four 
or five onions sliced up, and water enough to swell 
the rice. Let it cook in the oven, or on the range, till 
the rice is tender ; as water can always be added, and 
as rice varies in its power of absorbing water, it is 
best to start with a smaller quantity of water, and to 
add more if wanted. 

Cut up the meat from a 2-lb. tin, cutting against 
the grain. Rub with pepper and a little mustard flour, 
and stir in with the tender rice. Let the meat get 
hot through, 

R 



If fresh meat is 
cooked in the rice. 



used, it must stew till sufficiently 



Rissoles and Croquettes. 

When the scraps of cold chicken, duck, or other 
bird arc not enough to make a lai^er dish, they can 
be used for rissoles and croquettes. 

There should be a mixture of ham, boiled bacon, 
or tongue, with these 
scraps, and there 
must be some good 




But just as the 
scraps of chicken, 
&c., are saved from 
a previous day's din- 
ner, and utilised, so 
the cold melted butter, or anchovy sauce, &c, should 
be saved and used. 

The scraps of poultry or meat must not be torn 
into long shreds, 
but must be cut 
with a sharp 
knife, or chop- 
per, so that they 
are small squares, 
not larger than 
an eighth of an 
inch. 

It is often the 
linced meat consisting of the 




KROMESKIS. 243 

above scraps with eggs. This is a mistake : the minced 
meat must be allowed just to warm in a thick sauce, 
and then to set and get cold in it. The sauce is of 
course flavoured, and chopped lemon peel and chopped 
mushrooms may be conspicuous ingredients of the 
mixture. The mixture must be moulded into balls, 
or pears, or cutlets, and therefore must be of a consis- 
tency to tjear the operation. 

Then dip in breadcrumbs and e^ twice, and fry 
a golden brown (these are croquettes) ; or use as the 
centre of little turnovers of puff paste, and fry (these 
are rissoles). Serve on a napkin with fried parsley as 
a garnish. 

The pastry rissoles may be coated also with egg 
and vermicelli, broken very fine before being fried. 

Kromeskis. 

Take some fat bacon and cut thin slices, 2 inches 
square. Have ready some delicate quenelle, or 
forcemeat, or a 
very fine minced 
preparation , 
in which there 
should be mush- 
rooms, or truffles, 
or a flavouring of 
chopped lemon- 
peel, and lay this m small quantities on the sliced 
bacon. Roll up each slice carefully, so as to be about 
the size of a cork ; let them get cold. 

£ach roll must be ^ged and breadcrumbed or 




244 RICE CUTLETS. 

dipped in frying batter, and must be fried a rich 
brown. Send up on a napkin with crisp parsley. 

Kromeskis require so small a quantity of force- 
meat that it is very convenient to make them as an 
entree when the supply of materials is short. 

Rice Cutlets. 

\ lb. cooked rice ; 

\ lb. cooked mutton chopped vety fine ; 

\ lb. cooked beef chopped very fine ; 

\ lb. suet ', 

\ lb. bread crumbs. 

A little chopped onion which has been parboiled ; 
cayenne and salt in very small quarftities ; mix well 
together with cream or broth, and just warm. Let 
the mixture set in a large shallow dish ; cut into the 
shape of mutton cutlets ; egg and breadcrumb ; fry a 
golden brown. Serve on a napkin with fried parsley 
in the centre, or serve with a stiff puree in the centre 
and sauce round, exactly like cutlets. 

Chopped ham or boiled bacon may be used, or 
any scraps of poultry, but then the salt should be 
omitted. 

Rice Patties, or Cassolettes de Riz. 

Wash thoroughly and parboil a quantity of Caro- 
lina rice, strain off the water, and put on the rice, with 
as much white stock as it will absorb, and a little 
milk to keep it white ; flavour with Parmesan cheese. 
When the rice is almost a jelly, pour into a vessel in 
which it will become a layer about two inches deep*,/ 



RAVIOLI. ?45 

let it cool, and then have two cutters, one to cut out 
a circular mass of rice, which forms the * patty,' the 
i>ther to cut out the centre, and leave the opening for 
the pur^e or other filling-up material 

The patties are egged and breadcrumbed, and 
fried a light golden brown. 

The pur^e may be of quenelle meat made more 
liquid than if intended for quenelles ; of any very fine 
mince ; of oyster forcemeat ; of sweetbreads cut into 
tiny dice and mixed with truffles and mushrooms ; 
or of palates treated in the same way. 

A sweet dish may also be made, using apricot or 
apple marmalade to fill the rice frames,, but then of 
course no Parmesan, cheese is introduced. 

Ravioli. 

Prepare a paste with flour, eggs,, and a pinch of salt. 

Have ready forcemeat made from fish, meat, or 
poultry (cooked), with fine herbs and lemon-peel 
chopped very fine. 

Roll the paste till it is as thin as parchment ; cut 
into circular pieces three or four inches in diameter ; 
place on each a 
portion of the force- 
meat ; double the 

' , . , RAVIOLI. 

paste and pmch to- 
gether the edges. Place these * turnovers ' in a deep 
dish which will bear the oven ; pour broth on them, 
and powder with Parmesan cheese. Twenty to thirty 
minutes will be enough in the oven. Place the dish 
on another dish, so that the ravioli are sent to table 
without being disturbed. 




TIMBALES. 



Iced Savoury Souffle. 

This is a very refined dish, and may be made 
with chicken, or with fish, if a maigre dish is pre- 
ferred ; in the latter case the aspic jelly must be 
made with fish bones. 

Cut up the white of chicken, or a lobster, or 
crab into very small fragments ; let it mariner in a 
mixture of oil, vinegar, seasoning, and mayonnaise 
sauce for two hours. 

Have ready some aspic jelly, and whip it till it is 
frothy ; put a layer of this at the bottom of a silver 
souffle dish ; then a layer of the mixture, and so 
on till the dish is nearly full. Pin a band of cartridge 
paper round, and fill in with whipped aspic ; ice it 
Take off the band of paper (the aspic then is higher 
than the dish) and serve. 

Timbales & la Pahlen. 
Boil some macaroni in water till it is tender, but 
not broken ; strain ; cut into lengths which fit youf 
dariole moulils, 
and line '^ 
moulds with '^ 
macaroni, adjust" 
ing the top ^1 
bending the m*' 
caroni in a spiral- 
Fill the tim- 
bales with white quenelle meat ; scoop out the centrti 




MEAT MINCE. 247 

nd fill with black quenelle made of truffles, mush- 
x)ms, and ham. Steam ; serve with white sauce. 

Quenelles may be made with a core of dark stuffing 
f the same materials as above. 



Dormers. 

Half a pound of cold meat, 2 ozs. beef suet, 3 ozs. 
oiled rice, very dry, all chopped very fine and 
easoned with pepper, salt, and catsup, or any sauce 
hat is liked. 

Roll into flat cakes ; egg and breadcrumb them ; 
ry and serve with thick gravy. 

Meat Mince. 

Cut off from the bones of roast meat, or poultry, 
r game, all the scraps which are too small to be used 
^ any other way. Use by preference two or three 
inds of meat, and if there is cold boiled bacon or 
a^ni, add a small quantity, but do not use the hard, 
ried-up lean of bacon. When ham or bacon is used 
^e sauce must not have any salt in it. Chop up these 
-raps, cutting against the grain, and endeavouring to 
'"oduce very small squares, not rags or strings of the 
^^at : take out any bits of gristle, cut up an onion 
'" some chibbals to the same size, put the mixture 
^ a stewpan with a bit of butter, and dredge in a 
ttle flour ; let it just brown. 

Prepare a sauce, either white or brown, as suited 
^ the meat, with broth, flour, and butter, and if for 
^al, cream, warm the minced meat in the sauce, make 



248 SCANDINAVIAN DISHES. 

a border of mashed potato, rice, or hominy, and pour 
in the mince ; or, if there is to be no border, place a 
garnish of toasted bread all round, and stick- toasted 
bread the shape of almonds all over the mound of 
mince. The mince must be rather stiffer if there is to 
be no border round it. 

Kottbullan 

(Scandinavian Recipe.) 

Take some of the uncooked fillet of a sirloin of 
beef, chop as fine as possible, and mix in finely chopped 
suet. Make a custard with milk, eggs, and powdered 
cracker biscuits ; stir together the m.eat and the cus- 
tard ; season with salt, pepper, and spice ; roll in the 
shape of balls ; fry i-n butten 



Ksllolmar. 

This dish is prepared in the same way as the pre- 
ceding dish, but the mixture is rolled in boiled 
cabbage leaves, and braised, in butter over a slow fire 
till the cabbage is browned. 



CHEESE FONDU. 249 



CHAPTER XXII. 
SA VO UR V DISHES WIT HO UT ME A T, 

Fondu. 

One pint of cream, \ lb. Parmesan cheese, are to be 
warmed together. The yolks of eight 6ggs are to be 
stirred in one by one, till the whole mass is smooth, in 
an earthenware basin (which will fit into a silver case) ; 
place it in a bain-marie, and let it steam slowly for 
half an hour. If you have no silver case, pin a napkirx 
neatly round the basin, so as to disguise its form. 

If preferred, the fondu may be allowed to cool, 
and then be cut into disks the size of a crown piece 
and half an inch thick, dipped in bread crumbs and 
eggs, and fried a golden brown. 

Cheese Custard. 

Two or three ounces of cheese scraped into pieces 
as fine as shaving?. Beat this up with one large or 
two small eggs, and about \ pint of milk. Butter a 
pudding dish well, pour in the mixture, and then put 
in two small pieces of* butter about the size of a hazel 
nut 

Bake in the oven for a few minutes. 



2 so CHEESE SOUFFLJt, 

SoufH^ au Parmesan. 

Dissolve J lb. of butter in a stewpan, and stir in the 
yolks of five eggs. As soon as it begins to thicken, 
take the stewpan off the fire and work in 5 or 6 ozs. 
of grated cheese, Parmesan or Parmesan and Gruyfere 
mixed ; place again on the fire, and stir till it is a 
smooth paste ; remove from the fire, and work in one 
white of ^gg which has been well whipped. Before 
the mixture is put into the souffle case, the remaining 
whites of Qgg are to be whipped and stirred in, and 
immediately this is done it is to be put into the oven 
at a moderate heat. Twenty to twenty-five minutes 
is the time required for the baking, but do not begin 
too soon, as all souffles should be served the moment 
they, not the guests, are ready. 

Ramequins h, la Raymond. 

4 spoonsful of flour ; 

\ lb. scraped Gruy^re cheese ; 

A pinch of salt. 

Stir well together in a saucepan off the fire. 

Warm in another saucepan a piece of butter the 
size of an ^gg in a cup of water. Stir this slowly into 
the flour and cheese, and mix it for three or fav*^ 
minutes, then put on the stove and keep stirrini 
when it is a thickish paste take it off the fire 
work in two or three eggs one by one. Have rea< 
a shallow tart dish, butter it and drop in lumps ^^ 
the paste about the size of a walnut. Put it in 
oven, and let them bake for twenty minutes ; as Cc 



CHESTER CAKES. 251 

bit ought to swell to twice its original size, allowance 
must be made in the number put on the dish. 

Ramequin k la Genevoise. 

Cut slices of bread ^ inch thick, and of sizes to 
cover the bottom of the shallow fireproof dish. Let 
the bread absorb as much milk as it can without 
breaking. Coat the dish with butter and lay on it 
the bread. Grate enough Gruy^re (or other cheese) 
to cover the bread ; let the grated cheese dissolve in 
cream, or milk and butter, on the fire. When it is 
thoroughly smooth pour it over the bread, place the 
dish in the oven, and let it remain for half an hour, or 
till the cheese and cream are brown and cling to the 
dish. 

Chester Cakes. 

^ lb. flour ; 

\ lb. butter ; 

i lb. Parmesan cheese, grated ; 

A little cayenne pepper ; 

A pinch of salt. 

Rub all together, and cut out with a tin cutter. 

Bake for 1 5 minutes. 

Tartelettes k la Sefton. 

Line the patty-pans with the above paste, and put 
in the following custard : — 

2 tablespoonsful of grated Parmesan cheese ; 

3 yolks of eggs ; 

A pinch of cayenne pepper and salt. 
-Bake from 15 to 20 minutes. 



2 52 TOASTED CHEESE. 



Nudeln au Parmesan. 

2 ozs. butter ; 

1 \ ozs. flour ; 

A teacupful of milk ; 

A pinch of salt ; 

A few^ grains of cayenne pepper. 

Work together in a stewpan over the hot-plate till 
it makes a paste. Add three eggs and 4 ozs. grated 
Parmesan cheese ; drop it from a tablespoon into 
boiling water, and cook a quarter of an hour. 

Serve on a napkin, and hand round rich brown 
sauce in a tureen, or if to be eaten on a fast day send 
up without sauce. 

Toasted Cheese. 

Slice up some rich cheese and put it in a bain- 
marie saucepan with a little milk ; stir over the fire 
till it is dissolved ; add some butter and an egg well 
beaten ; prepare slices of toast on a dish which fits 
over hot water, or a heater ; place the mixture on the 
toast, and let it brown before the fire. 

It must be served very hot. 

Stewed Cheese. 

2 tablespoon sful of grated cheese ; 
4 tablespoonsful of cream ; 

I tablespoonful of butter ; 

A few grains of cayenne pepper. 



CHEESE SALAD, 253 

Let the butter dissolve in a bain-marie saucepan ; 
stir in the cream, then the cheese, lastly the egg well 
beaten. Simmer till the mixture is smooth ; send up 
on toast in a hot-water dish. 

Cheese Salad, or Mock Crab. 

(American Recipe.) 

\ lb. old cheese grated ; 

I hard-boiled egg ; 

I teaspoonful cayenne ; 

I „ salt ; 

I „ white sugar ; 

I „ made mustard ; 

I tablespoonful onion vinegar ; 

I „ salad oil. 

Rub the yolk of the egg to a paste with the oil, 
adding in order the salt, pepper, sugar, and mustard, 
lastly the cheese. Work all well together before put- 
ting in the vinegar. Serve in a crab-shell. This 
mixture strongly resembles devilled crab, and should 
be eaten with biscuits and butter ; it is further im- 
proved if you add a cupful of cold minced chicken. 

Use none but the best and freshest olive salad oil 
(not sweet oil, falsely so called) in compounding your 
salad dressing. If you cannot obtain this, melted 
butter is the best substitute. 

Cheese Biscuits. 

Equal quantities of grated Parmesan cheese, butter, 
and flour, a little salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
to be mixed into a smooth paste ; cut into biscuits 



254 OMELETTES, 

about the size of a macaroon, and bake ; the colour to 
be a rich gold ; they are quite as good warmed the 
next day. 

Boiled Cheese. 

\ lb. mild cheese, Cheshire or other ; 
I gill cream ; 

A bit of bacon the size of a walnut ; 
A little pepper, and a very little salt. 

Cut the cheese very small, and let it melt in the 
cream over the fire, then stir in the yolk of one egg. 

Serve on toast cut into squares or circles ; or in 
little china souflFl^ cups, a slice of toast being laid 
at the bottom of each cup. The cups used must be 
of the smallest size made. 

Eggs.— Omelettes. 

There should be a small frying-pan kept entirely for 
omelettes and pancakes. It should never be washed, 
but wiped dry with clean paper or a cloth immediately 
after using. 

Take six or eight fresh eggs, break them, yolks 
and whites, into a basin, with a little salt and a spoon- 
ful of cold water. Beat them with a knife till they 
are thoroughly blended. Meanwhile the omelette pan 
must be on the stove with butter in it, and just befoi« 
the butter boils, throw in the eggs ; just freeing the 
edges from the pan, so ^at they do not become frothy. 
When the eggs have nearly set, double the mixture 
up, so that it looks like an oval cushion. Let it tate 
a golden colour, and dish up on an oval dish. Some 



EGGS. 255 

people like a rich but clear meat gravy sent up round 
the omelette — a taste not to be commended. Fine 
herbs chopped fine, truffles or mushrooms chopped, or 
kidneys may be mingled with the eggs before frying. 

Eggs on China {sur k plat). 

A fireproof china dish is to be put on the stove 
with some butter in it ; as soon as the butter is melted, 
three or more eggs are to be carefully broken into 
the dish. A little care is needed so that each yolk may 
be surrounded with white. Let the eggs remain long 
enough for the white to set, but not for the yolk to 
harden ; sprinkle slightly with salt and pepper. Send 
up in the same dish. 

Broken Eggs and Asparagus Points. 

Take eight yolks and four whites of eggs. Stir 
thoroughly, always turning in the same direction. 
Throw in cooked asparagus tips (or chopped truffles). 
Have a stewpan ready, with either butter or broth 
enough to prevent the eggs from burning, and cook 
them in it. These eggs must be of the consistency of 
porridge, not of soup. Serve in a deep dish with 
croiitons round. 

Canapes of Egg. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, shell them, cut them 
lengthways, and take out the yolks, stir a large 
tablespoonful of flour quite smoothly into half a pint of 
water. Take three of the yolks, 4 ozs. fresh butter, 



256 EGGS. 

3 ozs. sardines, which must be washed, boned, and cut 
into small dice, and some parsley or chibbal chopped 
fine." Stir it without ceasing over the fire till it 
becomes a thick cream, taking care not to let it boil. 
Pour this while hot into a dish, upon which the whites 
of the eggs have been arranged. Pound the yolks 
of the three remaining eggs in a mortar with butter 
the size of a nut, and some salt. Rub it through a 
sieve over the whole, and serve. 

Eggs in Cases. 

The little china souffle cases are those intended 
for this dish. Butter the inside, and half fill with 
breadcrumbs which have been browned in butter, and 
which are seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped 
parsley. Break an ^gg into each case, and cook in 
the oven or in a bain-marie, with water, not higher 
than the rim of the cases. 

CEufs Brouill6s k Tlndienne. 

Take one onion, chop it fine, fry it a light brown 
in I oz. of butter, add one tablespoonful of Yeatman's 
curry powder. Stir over the fire five minutes, then 
take it off to cool ; spread on the bottom of a sauce- 
pan 4 ozs. butter, six whole eggs, four taWespoonsful 
of cream ; then add the onion, pepper, sajt. Stir it on 
the fire till it becomes of the consistency of soft 
mashed potatoes, and serve it with rice. 



EGGS A LA ST, JAMES, 257 



Curried £ggs« 

2 ozs. onions, chopped fine, fried in 
2 ozs, butter ; 

I tablespoonful curry powder ; 
I tablespoonful curry paste ; 
A little salt. 

Fry these together, then add half a pint of milk 
nd a little cream. 

Let this sauce cook for a few minutes, and poach 
le eggs in it from five to ten minutes. 

Serve with rice, very hot. 



Eggs It la St. James. 

Take as many eggs as you have guests, and boil 
lem hard in dariole moulds. The moulds must of 
Durse be large enough to hold the egg when broken 
ito it. When quite cold remove the egg from the 
lould. Slice off the white at one end, taking care to 
•reserve the shape of the white, and scoop out the yolk. 
^ix this with some anchovy paste, and put back in the 
hite. Coat the eggs with aspic jelly, stand them on 
le dish with the uncut part upwards, and pour round 
e sauce, which is to be half mayonnaise (that is 
iy onnaise mixed with cream ), slightly coloured with 
^ anchovy paste. A variety of the same dish is 
icie by using chopped truffles instead of anchovy 



258 BOMBAY TOAST. 



Scotch Woodcock. 

Boil two eggs hard, and chop up fine ; put into a 
saucepan two tablespoonsful of anchovy sauce, and a 
large lump of butter. When dissolved stir in the 
chopped eggs, and serve on small rounds of buttered 
toast neatly arranged on a napkin. 



Bombay Toast. 

A spoonful of butter IS placed oTi a 'hot- water plate ; 
as it melts stir m two eggs, cayenne pepper, and 
essence of anchovy, with chopped capers. Spread on 
small rounds of buttered toast. Serve on a napkin as 
above. 

JVnchovy Toast. 

Prepare slices of bread, cut either the shape of 
cutlets or round; fry them In butter, Bind spread on 
them anchov}^ paste ; let the paste just sink into the 
toast ; serve on a dish under which there is hot water, 
or on a napkin ; this looks better, but defeats the end 
of serving hot. 

Anchovy Butter. 

Take six anchovies, those tliat are preserved in 
salt and w^ater, wash them in several waters, if 
necessary lukewarm water, to get rid of all the salt. 
Remove the bones ; pound in a mortar ; pass through 



ANCHOVY BUTTER. 259 

a tamis, and work in with an equal weight of butter. 
Form into little balls : surround with watercress, and 
serve with pieces of toast in a toast-rack. 



Anchovy Butter No. 2. 

Take equal quantities of parsley leaves picked 
from the stalk and parboiled, of anchovies washed, 
boned, and pounded, and of fresh butter. Mix the 
ingredients thoroughly, and pass through a tamis. 
Form into balls. Ice them and serve with toast. 



Anchovy AUumettes. 

The anchovies used for this dish are to be those 
sold as * anchovies in oil.' Dry them and cut into long 
thin strips ; roll each strip in paste, and fry. Let them 
drain on a sieve before the fire ; dress them two and 
two across each other on a napkin. Surround with 
fried parsley, and serve very hot. 

Anchovy Tartines. 

Cut round slices of French roll, or of bread, about 
three inches in diameter, and spread butter smoothly 
over them. 

Have a bottle of anchovies preserved in oil ; unroll 

and dry them, and cut into narrow strips ; lay these 

strips on the slices, so as to form an open trellis ; in 

each opening place yolk of eggs hard-boiled, white 

of eggs, and parsley or gherkins chopped very fine, 

so that the colours contrast. 

s 2 



26o ANCHOVY CUSHIONS. 

Arrange on a napkin on the dish, and send up 
with the cheese, or as a luncheon relish. 



Anchovy Cushions {cold). 

Prepare the bread as in the previous recipes, but 
let the rounds be rather larger. Have ready the fol- 
lowing garnishes : — 

Anchovies, chopped small ; 

Capers, chopped small ; 

Yolk of eggy hard-boiled and chopped ; 

White of Qgg, hard-boiled and chopped. 

Arrange these garnishes on each round, so that 
there is one quarter of anchovy, one with capers, 
one of white, and one of yolk of egg ; or arrange 
in concentric circles. 

Cold Bread Patties. 

Take very small rolls, slice off the top, scoop out 
the crumb. Fill with minced chicken or fish, which 
has been set in cream sauce, hot, and allowed to cool ; 
trim the edge of the top, and put it on the patty. 
Dress on a napkin with garnish of watercress. 

Devilled Biscuits with Cheese. 

Butter the biscuits on both sides, and pepper them 
well. Rub up some cheese with made mustard, and 
lay on one side ; sprinkle a little salt and cayenne 
over the top, and let them be grilled. 



DEVILLED BISCUITS, 261 



Devilled Biscuit {plain) 

Is simply toasting the biscuit and buttering it while 
hot, then sprinkling cayenne pepper over it with a 
little salt. 

Another Devil. 

Mix ^ an 6z. of each of the following ingre- 
dients : — Curry powder, mustard, salt, cayenne pep- 
per, ginger, nutmeg, and grated lemon peel, \ of an 
oz. of allspice and of black pepper. Bone and wash 
some anchovies, pound them in a mortar with butter, 
season with the above mixture, and spread on a 
biscuit fried in butter. 



Biscuits k la Russe. 

Make a dozen water biscuits 2^ inches in diameter, 
or use thin captain's biscuits of the same size. 

Chop up the solid part of slices of cucumber, 
parsley, or watercress, white of egg, yolk of egg hard- 
boiled, and anchovies thoroughly dried from their 
oil. Cover each biscuit with this mixture, reserving 
a small quantity oi each ingredient to decorate the 
centre of the biscuit. Serve on a napkin, and garnish 
with a wreath of watercress leaves, not sprigs, all 
round. 

Kitcherie. 

First steep half a pint of dry split peas in water. 
Add half a pint of picked and washed rice with a little 



262 SARDINES AU PARMESAN, 

<^inger and salt ; boil till the peas and rice are swollen 
and tender ; stir the whole, and stir in a little butter. 
Strain off the water ; have ready some hard-boiled 
eggs cut in halves, and an onion or two sliced and 
fried in butter to garnish with, or else add some small 
boiled onions. The peas and rice should not be 
clammy. 

Fish Kitcherie. 

Take any cold fish, pick it carefully from the 
bones, mix with a teacupful of boiled ric^, i oz. of 
butter, a teaspoonful of mustard, two soft-boiled eggs, 
salt and cayenne to taste, and serve very hot. The 
quantities may be varied according to the amount of 
fish used. 

Sardines au Parmesan. 

Take small sardines, or if too large split them ; but 
the small ones make a neater dish ; let the oil drain 
away ; remove the skin and the tip of the tail, and 
give them a thin coating of Parmesan, grated very 
fine. 

Prepare strips of toast a size larger than the sardine. 
Butter the surface, place the sardine on it, and put 
the whole in the oven to warm, taking care that the 
toast does not get too crisp. 

Sardines en Papillote. 

Scrape, dry, and bone the sardines. Fill them with 
cold brown sauce, chopped mushrooms, and fine herbs, 



MACARONI, 263 

and wrap in paper ; taking care to pinch over the ends 
of the paper, so that the sauce may not run out. 
Warm them through in the oven. 



Cheese Canapes. 

Cut into any form thin slices of stale bread ; fry 
lightly in butter ; cover each canape (or cushion) 
with some grated Parmesan cheese which has been 
stirred with mustard and pepper ; set them, before a 
hot fire till the cheese is dissolved. Dish up on a 
folded napkin ; serve hot, as all dishes in which there 
is cheese are ruined by being served tepid^ 



Macaroni. 

The preliminary process is in all cases to break 
the macaroni into pieces of a moderate length, about 
two inches, and to stew it in salted boiling water for 
twenty minutes, or till it is tender, but not split open. 

It must then be allowed to drain, and as each piece 
has water in the inside of the tube, the draining 
must be very carefully attended to. In dressing 
macaroni it should be first boiled till tender, which 
is ascertained by trying if the paste breaks with its 
own weight. 

If a simple dish is desired, re-warm the macaroni 
with a small quantity of butter, which must not be 
allowed to do more than melt. Sprinkle some 
chopped parsley and serve hot. This is a useful 
breakfast dish. 



264 MACARONI AU GRATIN, 



Macaroni au Gratin. 

Have ready a cream sauce, to which add grated 
Parmesan and Gruy^re cheese ; the proportion being 
\ lb. cheese to i lb. macaroni, and milk or cream 
sauce enough to dilute. Warm the macaroni in this 
mixture, and then pour the whole into a shallow dish, 
either china which will stand the oven or metal. 
Strew the surface with breadcrumbs and grated cheese 
and a very little melted butter ; finish in the oven 
or before the fire ; send up in its own dish on a 
dish the same shape but just a size larger. 

White or cayenne pepper, according to taste, may 
be mixed in the sauce. 



Macaroni and Tomatoes. 

Make a pur^e with fresh tomatoes, or with toma- 
toes preserved in tins, adding a small quantity of 
onion. Dilute the pur& with stock, and work in a 
pat of butter ; re-warm the macaroni in this mixture 
and serve in a deep dish with fried croCitons round. 
Chopped ham or tongue may be added. 



Macaroni Timbale. 

Line a plain mould with paste. Fill it with 
macaroni prepared in sauce as before, adding small 
dice of chicken and tongue, or veal and tongue. 
Fasten the paste cover neatly and tightly on at the 



TAGLIARINI. 265 

edge, and bake in an oven for an hour. Serve on a 
napkin. The timbale will stand on what was the 
bottom of the mould, and the top must be scored 
round just inside the edge, so as to form a lid, which 
is lifted back when the spoon is inserted. 



Tagliarini. 

(Italian Recipe.) 

Make a paste of flour, water, and one or two eggs, 
according to the quantity required. When completely 
kneaded, roll it to the thickness of a wafer biscuit, 
and cut it into long strips a quarter of an inch wide, 
or into fancy shapes, with a paste-cutter. They are 
more delicate than macaroni, but are dressed in the 
same way, being boiled first and then, after being 
carefully drained of water, cooked with cheese and 
either butter or gravy. 



Celery Salad, or Salad k la Casanova. 

Cut the celery, which should be white and delicate, 
into lengths of about one inch. Cut up the white 
meat of a cooked chicken or pheasant into dice ; add 
truffles cut up, and tongue or ham. Place neatly in 
a dish, and mix with mayonnaise sauce which has 
been diluted with cream. Garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs, or aspic croutons. 

Fish may be used instead of meat, and truffles may 
be omitted. 



266 RUSSIAN SALAD, 

Russian Salad. 

Take some carrots, potatoes, turnips, celery, French 
beans, olives, and a Portugal onion. Cut them in dif- 
ferent shapes to pieces about the size of a raisin, till 
you have about a pound of mixed vegetables; boil 
them in water with a little salt, pour off the water, 
and sautez them slightly in fresh butter. 

Prepare a sauce by whipping the yolks of four 
Gggs, to which add half a pint of the best olive oil 
and two teaspoonsful of mustard flour. Take a 
small quantity of spinach, pound it in a mortar, then 
pass it through a napkin, squeezing it bard. Add to 
the liquid thus obtained half a pint of water, and put 
it on a quick fire, but be careful to take it off as soon 
as it boils. Then pass it through a silk tamis, and 
mix with what remains in the tamis half a dozen 
biscuits without sugar which have been soaked for 
twenty-four hours in water. 

Then add a little butter, mix it well, and pass it 
through the tamis, mix well with the sauce described 
above, and add half a pint . of cream. Add the 
vegetables and i oz. of liquid gelatine, and put the 
whole into a mould until the gelatine is set, when it 
will be ready to serve. 

Croustades aux TruTes. 

Cut a French roll into thick slices, and dig out 
some of the crumb so as to form a little patty case. 
Toast in the oven. 

Take | lb. fresh truffles — English if to be had. 



TURKISH RICE, 267 

Cut into large dice, and add \ of the quantity of dark 
mushrooms. Simmer in very rich brown sauce ; fill 
the crusts with the truffles and mushrooms, and send 
up a sauce in which \ lb. of truffles and some mush- 
rooms have been mixed. It is to be noted that the 
mixture in the croustades is to be so thick that it will 
not run out, or over, and that the sauce sent up 
separately is to be of the consistency of sauce — much 
more liquid than the croustadc mixture. 

Rice— Turkish Fashion. 

Put a quart of water in a saucepan ; when boiling 
throw in i lb. of rice which has been well washed 
and dried. Add a pinch of salt, and let it simmer till 
the rice has absorbed all the water. Then take \ lb. 
butter, and let it become liquid by putting in a jar 
and standing the jar in boiling water ; pour the liquid 
butter over the rice. Cover the saucepan and place a 
damp cloth over the cover. Keep it on the side of 
the hot-plate for half an hour. Serve in a deep dish, 
and do not put on a cover. 

If a more elaborate form is desired, have ready 
truffles cut into small bits, not much larger than a 
grain of rice when swelled, and mix in when you add 
the butter. This is called Rice a la Mustapha. Mush- 
rooms may be substituted for truffles. 

Rice k la Milanaise. 

36 ozs. rice ; 
10 ozs. butter ; 
5 ozs: beef suet. 



268 5^ VO UR V RICE. 

Simmer in broth ; then add 6 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 
and a pinch of saffron, with, if liked, some chopped 
tongue or scraped ham. 

Press in a mould which has a loose top, and serve 
very hot 

Savoury Rice. 

A teacupful of rice, one onion cut up ; to be boiled 
in I pint stock, either fish stock or meat stock. Make 
a custard with half a pint of milk, and one ^^ig, pepper, 
salt, chopped parsley, and a little chopped ham or 
tongue. Bake in a slow oven. 

If this dish is intended for a ' fast ' day, the ham 
would be omitted, and fish substituted, such as Finnan 
haddock or salt fish. 



i 



SA UCES. 269 



CHAPTER XXIII. 
SA UCES, 

Besides the flour, butter and juices of meat which 
constitute sauces, there are a variety of flavours which 
are imparted by herbs, vegetables and condiments. 
The proper blending of flavours and the judicious 
application of heat are necessary to the production of 
good sauces. 

A measuring glass, of the same kind as is used 
for medicines, ought to be found in every kitchen, 
and employed to regulate vinegar, wine, brandy and 
liqueurs, so that the due proportion of these flavours 
may not be exceeded. 

In liquid measurement : 

2 tablespoonsful = i fluid ounce, or i avoirdupois 

ounce ; 
20 fluid ounces = i imperial pint ; 
4 gills = I imperial pint. 
In measuring flour : 
I large tablespoonful = ^ oz. 

As tablespoons differ in size, they cannot be 
accepted as measuring accurately, and it is better 
alw^ays to weigh the quantity required for refined 
sauces. 



270 SAUCES. 

Eggs. 

Eggs must be broken neatly and carefully so as 
to separate the yolk from the white, and the yolks 
must be freed from the germ. In all cases when the 
yolk is used to thicken a sauce or soup, it must be 
stirred into a small quantity of the hot sauce or soup 
in a cup, and then this mixture is to be stirred into 
the larger quantity. 

Vinegar. 

What is called good strong kitchen vinegar may 
be used to clean coppers and to alleviate bruises and 
black eyes. It is not fit for sauces and salads. 
English vinegars are deficient in refinement of flavour. 
Really good vinegar is made with wine. A ver}' 
small quantity goes a long way, and it is far better, 
therefore, always to buy French vinegar. 

When a very slight acid flavour is desirable, Chablis 
wine should be used. 

Lemon-juice varies in acidity according as the 
fruit is more or less ripe, and the quantity used must 
therefore follow the condition of the fruit. 

Maille vinegars are French vinegars flavoured with 
herbs or shallots. They are to be used sparingly ; 
but aspic jelly requires the flavour of one of the 
Maille vinegars. Tarragon vinegar, as made in Eng- 
land, is rather apt to overwhelm with its peculiar 
taste. Tarragon should not be boiled even when its 
flavour is desired in soup or sauce. 



SAUCES, 271 



Mustard. 



When it is desirable to put mustard in a sauce, as 
in Robert sauce for instance, mustard flour, that is 
unmade mustard, must always be used. Put a little 
of the sauce or stock in a cup, stir in the mustard 
flour, and then work in with the rest of the sauce. 
' Made mustard ' does not keep, and the true flavour 
is only obtained by using the flour. 

Egg sauce for salt fish is improved by some 
mustard flour being added. 



*Roux' for Sauces. 

Sauces require to be thickened or bound together, 
and for this purpose either roux, arrowroot, potato 
flour, or eggs are used. Roux is to be made of a light 
colour for white sauces and of a dark colour for brown 
sauces. Put in a saucepan \ lb. butter and let it 
melt ; stir in four or five spoonsful of flour or of 
potato starch with a wooden spoon ; let it cool a 
little, and then mix in your gravy or stock, taking 
great care that it mixes smoothly. Place it on a 
distant part of the hot-plate, and let it simmer 
for one hour ; skim off" the grease. Then put the 
saucepan on the warm part of the hot-plate, that it 
may * reduce ' or boil down. Ascertain how much it 
reduces by letting it drop out of a spoon slowly. The 
sauce must not be too thick, or too thin, or too dark. 
Pass through a tamis, and use for mixing with flavour 
sauces. Let it be borne in mind that flour and water 



272 SA UCES, 

are not made savoury by butter alone, and that flour 
and water slightly cooked, and with a surface of butter, 
is not a sauce, but a nauseous substitute for sauce. 

A bouquet or bunch of fine herbs to give flavour 
consists of three or four leaves of parsley, a sprig of 
thyme, a shallot and two bay leaves tied together, so 
that the bunch of herbs can be taken out after the 
sauce has received their flavour. 

' Espagnole/ or Brown Sauce. 

Put \ lb. of butter in a bain-marie, or milk sauce- 
pan, and let it melt ; stir in four tablespoonsful of 
flour which has been dried in the oven. Keep stirring 
with a wooden spoon till the mixture is a bright 
chestnut colour. Then add slowly broth enough to 
make a sauce the consistency of thin cream. Let it 
simmer for \\ hours, skim, and let it boil up, taking 
care that it does not stick to the sides or bottom. 
When the sauce is of the consistency of thick cream, 
pass it through a tamis, and put it in a jar ready for 
use. As a skin will form at the top, it is well to add 
a little bit of butter the last thing. 

White Sauce. 

Proceed as above, only keep your flour and butter 
ivhite by adding a chopped shallot, which keeps it 
from turning ; and having your broth quite white, 
finish with some cream, or, if no cream can be had, 
a glass of white wine into which you have stirred a 
raw ^^^, 

Always warm in a bain-marie. 



SA UCES. 273 

White Sauce for Braising White Meats. 

Half a pound of fresh beef suet chopped fine, \ lb. 
f fat bacon, a bunch of fine herbs, an onion and a 
arrot or two, a little salt, a few peppercorns, and the 
lice and pulp of a lemon. Stir on a slow fire, or on the 
as stove, till the fatty matter is dissolved, taking care 
lat the mixture does not turn brown. Pour in a 
loderate quantity of water, strain through a hair 
leve, and use with flour, smoothly and slowly worked 
1, for braising calPs head, veal which is to come up 
^hite, rabbit, or chicken. 

To Brown Flour. 

Spread upon a tin plate, set upon the stove or in 
very hot oven, and stir continually after it begins to 
olour until it is brown all through. 

Keep it always on hand. Make it at odd minutes, 
nd put away in a glass jar covered closely. Shake 
p every few days to keep it light and prevent 
imping. 

Boiled Flour for Sauces, &c. 

Take a pudding basin ; press in as much best 
our as you can with a spoon and the knuckles, until 
forms a compact mass. Tie a cloth over and boil 
)T twelve hours. 

Rernove the cloth, and let it stand in the basin 
11 the next day. 

Take the skin from the top ; grate or roll the 

T 



274 SAUCES, 

mass until smooth. Pass through a strainer, and put 
in a covered jar for use. 

All flour used for thickening should be previously 
cooked either as above, or by baking for many hours. 

Melted Butter. 

Take 6 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of flour, a pinch of salt. 
Divide the butter into three parts. Work the flour 
into one part of the butter, add water, and stir round 
with a spoon till the butter is melted, always stirring 
the same way. When this is heated by a slow fire, 
stir in the second portion of the butter. When this 
is melted on the fire, take the pan off, and stir in the 
third portion of the butter near the fire, but not on it. 

Dutch Sauce. 

2 yolks of eggs. 

2 tablespoonsful of vinegar with a little salt and 
white pepper reduced to a teaspoonful by boiling. 

2 tablespoonsful of cold water. 

Stir on a slow fire with a wooden spoon for two 
' or three minutes. 

Three ounces of butter ; divide into three parts ; 
stir in one part of the butter ; take off" the fire. Then 
stir in the second part, and take off" the fire ; then the 
third part. Finish with a spoonful of cold water. 

Black Butter. 

This is the special sauce for skate. 

Take \ lb. of butter and let it melt in the sauce 



SAUCES. 275 

)an gradually ; then allow it to get quite hot and to 
)ecome of a rich brown ; in another saucepan put 
hree tablespoonsful of French vinegar, a pinch of 
alt and pepper ; let your butter cool, and pour 
hrough a strainer into the vinegar. Warm all together 
ind serve in a sauce-boat. 



Fennel and Parsley Sauces. 

These sauces are merely butter sauce, into which 
:hopped fennel or chopped parsley has been stirred, 
he last thing before putting into the sauce-boat. 



Villeroi Sauce. 

This sauce may be made either with fish broth or 
neat broth. 

Make the usual roux with butter and flour. Let 
t be neither white nor brown, but of a yellow colour. 
>tir in the broth ; add a few mushrooms and herbs 
D flavour ; simmer for a quarter of an hour ; pass 
iirough a tamis. Reduce and thicken by stirring 

I the yolks of two or more eggs. • The eggs must be 
dded just before using the sauce ; the sauce being 
repared long in advance. Care must be taken with 

II sauces in which eggs are used that the Qgg does 
ot curdle, which it must do if cooked over a fierce 
re. 

All entries with which this sauce is used are 
ascribed as * a la Villeroi.' 



T 2 



276 SAUCES. 

Sauce a la Poulette. 

Weigh 2 ozs. each x>i butter and flour (which has 
been dried, but not browned), and stir the flour and 
half the butter in a saucepan in the bain-marie, or a 
milk saucepan, for about three minutes ; then pour in 
slowly the requisite quantity of stock or broth to 
dilute the sauce ; let it stand off the fire for two 
minutes, and then mix in the yolTcs of two eggs which 
have been stirred, but not beaten. Just replace in 
the bain-marie, and at the last moment stir in the 
rest of the butter. This sauce is appropriate to 
dressed carrots (Dutch-horn), to lambs' feet or tails, 
to dressed fish, i&c. 

A little chopped parsley or shallot may be put in 
this sauce if more flavour is desired. A very little 
pepper and salt, if the broth added <k)es not contain 
those flavours. 



Sauce k la dTUxelles. 

Chop up button mushrooms, sTiallots, chibbals, 
parsley, and bacon, fry in butter, but do not tet 
them brown. Season with pepper and salt and a 
bay leaf ; add some pale sauce and simmer ; squeeze 
in a little lemon-juice, and, as a last thing, stir in one 
Qgg or more, according to quantity. Pour into a 
basin to cool, and use as coating to any dish of which 
the meat has to be wrapped in paper, or to be placed 
on silver skewers and fried in breadcrumbs. The 
entree is then described as a la cTUxelles, 



SA UCES. 277 

Sauce k la Ste-Mdnehould. 

Put some butter cut into little bits, so that it 
melts quicklyj^into a milk saucepan, and dredge in 
some dried flour. Dilute this with new milk, or milk 
and cream. Season with mushrooms, chibbals, pepper 
and salt ; stir and simmer ; pass it through a tamis ; 
put it again into the saucepan with either chopped 
parsley, or, if for pigs' feet,, with chopped sage. 

Sauce P^rig^ieux. 

This sauce can be made with * Pelures de truffes,' 
which are much cheaper than truffles. 

Take them out of the tin ; stir them into some 
rich stock, and simmer in a stewpan with a wine-glass 
of sherry or Chablis. The simmering must be carried 
on till the raw taste of the truffles disappears. The 
sauce keeps two or three days, and can easily be 
warmed. 

Remoulade Sauce {hot). 

Take mushrooms and chibbals cut to the same 
size, chopped parsley and a touch of garlic, best ob- 
tained by cutting up the chibbals with a knife rubbed 
with garlic. Fry in salad oil ; then simmer in broth 
with enough Maille vinegar to give sharpness, but not 
to dominate the mushroom flavour. Before serving 
introduce a teaspoonful of mustard flour let it warm 
and mingle, but not boil. 



278 SAUCES. 

R^moulade Sauce {cold). 

Chibbals, capers, anchovies {i.e, anchovies preserved 
in oil), are to be chopped up with parsley, mustard, 
pepper and salt. Mix with salad oil, and lastly a 
teaspoonful or more of Maille vinegar. Take care 
that neither flavour is in excess. If garlic is liked, 
the taste may be given as in the preceding sauce. 

Czarina Sauce. 

Have a very rich brown sauce, and to this add 
sultana raisins, gherkins cut to the size of the raisins, 
and lemon-peel which has been parboiled and also 
cut to the same size. Season with black pepper, and 
simmer, stirring in at the last moment enough butter 
to ^ive softness to the other ingredients. 

Fair Maid's Sauce. 

Simmer in pale broth a teacupful of breadcrumbs 
and an onion cut in slices. Take the white meat of 
a chicken or rabl)it, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, 
salt, and white pepper, and pound in a mortar ; mix 
with the bread broth and pass through a tamis. If 
too thick, dilute with cream or new milk. Warm, but 
do not boil. 

Mirepoix Sauce. 

Mince a large onion ; 
„ a large carrot ; 
„ a piece of celery. 



SA UCES. 279 

Put in a stewpan with some trimmings of bacon, 
and fry in fat until the onions, &c., are a good colour. 
Then stir in a quart of broth and a large wine-glass 
of Chablis. Add fine herbs, mushroom trimmings, 
and the pulp of a lemon (take care to pick out the 
pips first). Reduce for half an hour, and pass the 
whole through a sieve or tamis. 

B^arnaise Sauce. 

Five yolks of eggs, i oz. of butter, a pinch of 
salt ; stir on a slow fire. When the eggs begin to 
thicken, take away from the fire and add another 
ounce of butter. Let it warm again, and again add 
I oz. of butter, some chopped parsley and fine herbs, 
and a teaspoonful of Maille vinegar. 

Robert Sauce. 

Chop into small dice two Portugal onions ; put 
them in a stewpan with some butter, and fry a very 
light brown. Have ready a pale brown sauce, and 
thicken it with mustard flour ; drain the onions from 
the butter and stir in the sauce, adding a very small 
quantity of French vinegar. Warm in the bain- 
marie, and serve with pork cutlets, either in the dish 
or in a sauce-boat. Do not use made mustard, but 
mustard flour. 

Sauce for Fish Curry. 

Take some trimmings of the fish you are going 
to curry ; put them into a saucepan, add two large 



28o 



SA LTCES, 



onions ; fry them a light brown ; i carrot, I head of 
celery, i leek, thyme, parsley, 3 bay leaves, i pint 
of water, i of milk ; boil thirty minutes, skim and 
strain through a silk sieve ; mix with 3 ozs. of butter, 
two tablespoonsful of flour, two of Yeatman's curry 
powder ; warm over the fire five minutes ; dilute with 
the fish broth ; keep it about the consistency of thick 
melted butter ; boil fifteen minutes. Take any of the 
kind of fish named below. Cut them in pieces, and 
cook them in the oven with the sauce over. Serve 
with a border of rice round, or on a plate separately. 

Turbot, salmon, soles, mullets, dory, skate, pike, 
gurnard, oysters. 

Sauce a la Tartare (co/d). 

Three shallots, a little parsley, Tarragon and cher- 
vil, one chibbal, to be chopped very fine. 

Two teaspoonsful of mustard flour, three of salad 
oil, one of French vinegar, some salt and ground 
pepppr, to be slowly and smoothly mixed in the sauce 
tureen. Then the herbs and onions to be stirred in. 
If the sauce on tasting is too sharp, a little more oil 
must be mingled. 



► 



Sauce a la Matelote. 

Half a pint of broth, half a pint of Chablis, two 
bay leaves, a leaf or two of Tarragon, chervil, chibbal, 
pepper and salt, to be simmered till reduced to ^ pint 
This sauce is to be used for fish which is directed to 
be cooked in a sauce d la matelote. The French 



SAUCES, 281 

recipes give a touch of garlic. English palates dislike 
the taste of garlic, and English cooks can rarely be 
trusted to use this accessory sparingly enough to 
render it admissible. 

Brown Caper Sauce. 

Dry the capers, so that the coarse vinegar in which 
they are preserved does not cling about them. Cut 
each caper into four pieces, and mix them into good 
brown sauce. Simmer till the sauce is properly 
reduced, and serve with boiled fish or meat in a sauce 
tureen. 

White Caper Sauce. 

Dry the capers as in preceding recipe, and stir 
them in either with melted butter or Dutch sauce. 
Serve in a sauce tureen. 

Egg Sauce. 

Boil three eggs hard ; cut up both yolk and white 
into pieces about \ inch square, and stir them into a 
plain melted butter sauce. 

Cauliflower Ss^uce. 

(American Recipe.) 

I small cauliflower ; 

3 tablespoonsful of butter, cut in bits and 

rolled in flour ; 
I onion ; 
I small head of celery ; 



282 SA UCES. 

Mace, pepper, and salt ; 

I teacupful of water ; 

I teacupful of milk or cream. 

Boil the cauliflower in two waters, changing when 
about half done, and throwing away the first, reserve 
a teacupful of the last Take out the cauliflower, 
drain and mince. Cook in another saucepan the 
onion and celer>% mincing them when tender. Heat 
the reser\'ed cupful of water again in a saucepan, add 
the milk. When warm put in the cauliflower and 
onion, the butter and seasoning, coating the butter 
thickly with flour. Boil until it thickens. 

This makes a good sauce for boiled corned beef 
and mutton. 

Horse-radish Sauce {cold). 

Take off" the stringy outside of the root, and 
pound the inside. Mix with cream till it is a smooth 
paste ; add salt and either French vinegar, lemon- 
juice, or Chablis wine in the proportion of one table- 
spoonful of the acid to four of the cream. 

If the sauce is to be served hot, yolk of egg and 
water is to be used instead of cream, which is nearly 
sure to curdle. 

Chestnut Sauce. 

It is best to make this sauce from chestnut flour. 
If the sauce is to be white, veal broth and new milk 
must be used to make a pur^e, and dilute it to the 
state of sauce ; add salt ; if the sauce is to be brown 
omit the milk, and use brown stock and flavour with 



SA UCES. 283 

onion. The sauce must be passed through a hair 
sieve. It is to be served with turkey, chicken, or 
pheasant in place of bread sauce. 



Mayonnaise Sauce. 

To make this sauce it is necessary to have fresh 
but not newly laid eggs, the best olive oil and 
French vinegar or lemon juice. Only the yolk of the 
^%Z is used, and it must be freed from the germ. 
Pour a smallquantity of vinegar into a cup, or squeeze 
the lemon into a cup and use from this — a rule it 
would be well to observe whenever vinegar has to be 
used, as if it is poured in from the bottle too much is 
sure to be the result. 

Stir the yolks of one or two eggs, according to the 
quantity wanted, in a basin with a wooden spoon, in- 
troducing the oil drop by drop ; stir always one way, 
add a little pepper and salt, and finally a few drops 
of vinegar or lemon juice. In summer this sauce 
must be made in a cool place, and kept on ice. It 
must be of such consistency that the spoon can nearly 
stand upright in it. Each drop of oil must be stirred 
in, so as to disappear before fresh is added. 

Mayonnaise Sauce No. 2. 

The egg used must be quite fresh, but it must not 
be new laid ; about three days old is the age best for 
this and all culinary purposes. Separate the yolk 
from the white, &c., take out the germ, to which a 
small particle of the white always adheres. The least 



284 -SA UCES. 

portion of white spoils this sauce. Put the yolk in a 
soup plate with a mustard-spoonful of made mustard, 
and a salt-spoonful of salt and of pepper. Mix well 
together with a fork, add the oil drop by drop, so that 
the quantity never exceeds your mixing process, which 
must go on slowly. Continue the dropping and 
mixing till the bulk of sauce is as large as you require 
for your dish. The last thing stir in a very small 
quantity of Tarragon or Mai lie vinegar. 

When the taste of onion or of garlic is liked, rub 
the soup plate with either onion or garlic before 
making the sauce, but do not put any in the sauce. 

In very hot weather, it is sometimes necessary to 
put the materials on ice, or the sauce will not * come.' 
One egg will make a very large quantity of oil into 
Mayonnaise sauce. 



Tartar Sauce. 

Proceed exactly as in the Mayonnaise sauce, and 
add to it a small quantity of mustard flour, a few 
shallots or miniature onion threads chopped very fine, 
and a very few capers chopped small. 

Onion threads are the ten days old leaves of onion 
seed, sown at frequent intervals of time, to be sent up 
with radishes, &c. The flavour is peculiarly delicate. 

Samphire chopped small can be also used to give 
piquancy to tartar sauce ; it must be washed from the 
pickling vinegar, or it will give a strong taste. 



SAUCES, 285 

Soubise Sauce. 

Portugal onions must if possible be used. If or- 
dinary onions are used they must be blanched in 
boiling water. 

Peel, take out the small core, sautez in butter, 
taking care they do not get the least brown ; add 
enough milk to cover them, and simmer till quite 
tender. Pass through the tamis ; add a pinch of salt, 
and a pinch of sugar, and enough cream to make a 
thin puree ; warm in the bain-marie, and serve round 
cutlets or in a sauce tureen, as the occasion may 
require. 

Soubise Sauce No. 2. 

Peel and slice eight large onions. Put in a stew- 
pan with 2 ozs. butter, pepper and salt, and cover the 
stewpan, and set on the hot-plate for the onions to 
dissolve but not to colour ; when quite soft add 4 ozs. 
flour, two freshly baked mealy potatoes, one pint 
stock, and ^ pint of cream. Stir over the fire for 
fiifteen minutes, pass through a tamis or sieve, and 
keep hot in a bain-marie stewpan till wanted for the 
braised cutlets. 

The cutlets are trimmed, satiUy so as to be 
brown on both sides, and then simmered in stock till 
tender, but not broken. Dish up in a circle, and sur- 
round with sauce, which also fills the centre of the 
cutlets. 



> 



286 SA UCES. 

Pur^e of Mushroom Sauce. 

Take 2 lbs. of large mushrooms, of which the gills 
are turning from red to black, wash, drain, remove 
the stalk and skin, which will do for flavouring sauces. 
Put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and after 
a few minutes' slow cooking add some sauce to com- 
plete the cooking of the mushrooms ; this will take 
half an hour. Pass the whole through a tamis, and 
finish your pur^e with either cream or brown sauce 
according as the dish requires. For white entr&s the 
pur^e should be dark (nearly black), as contrast of 
colour is desirable. Broken pieces of large mush- 
rooms are quite as good as whole mushrooms. Button 
mushrooms must be used when a garnish, not a pur&, 
is to accompany an entree. 

Sauce a la Milanaise {white). 

Take some good cream sauce, not too thick, and 
stir in a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, let 
it melt into the sauce which must be of the consist- 
ency of double cream when finished. This is a good 
sauce with turbot ; it must be sent up very hot. 

Sauce a la Milanaise (broum). 

Take some brown sauce which has not been 
thickened, stir in a little mustard flour, and crrated 
Parmesan cheese which will thicken it. This can also 
be sent up with boiled white fish, or with boiled 
mutton. 



SA UCES, 287 

Gooseberry Sauce. 

Take a pint of green gooseberries, remove the tops 
and stems, wash them, and stew for half an hour, or till 
quite tender, in just enough water for the stewing 
process to take place. When the gooseberries are 
soft, pass the pulp through a sieve, add sugar, 
enough to give softness, but not to be perceived in 
the sauce. Mix in some butter and breadcrumbs, 
and pass again through the sieve. Let the sauce be 
the thickness of double cream. The pulp varies 
according to the state of the gooseberries, and bread- 
crumbs are added when the pulp would be otherwise 
too thin. 

This sauce is to be used with mackerel, and is 
also a substitute for apple and tomato sauce with roast 
pork. 

Apple Sauce. 

Pare, core, and quarter some good cooking apples 

and throw the quarters into a basin of cold water as 

you proceed. Have ready a milk saucepan, or a jar 

which will fit into a bain-marie. Let the apples stew 

in the jar or milk saucepan till tender. They require 

very little water, and if cider is to be had, use no water 

at all. Pass the pulp through a tamis, introduce sugar 

enough to correct the tartness of the apple, and butter 

to give mellowness. If the pulp is too thick, add 

some broth or white wine. Serve hot, and let the 

sauce be a rich golden brown, not white and raw - 

looking. 



288 SA UCES, 

Tomato Sauce. 

This sauce can be made from either fresh tomatoes, 
or tomatoes preserved in tins. It cannot be made 
from the mixture sold as tomato sauce. 

The tomatoes must be baked till they are tender, 
and then passed through a tamis. Have ready enough 
stock to make the pur^e of tomatoes into a sauce 
the consistency of cream. Warm in the bain-marie, 
and add a small lump of butter which must melt into 
the sauce, but not be boiled in it. 

It is better to serve tomato sauce in a sauce-boat, 
as it gets chilled if poured into a dish, and some palates 
do not like the flavour of tomatoes. 



Fumet of Game Sauce. 

Take two w^ild rabbits, two old partridges, and cut 
them up. Have ready onions, carrots, celery and 
button mushrooms, a bunch of fine herbs, and a bottle 
of Chablis. Let the whole simmer slowly till the 
flesh is off* the bones, skim, take out the bones, add 
a pint of stock, and simmer for an hour or more. 
Pass through the tamis, and carefully remove any fat 
when cold. Warm in a bain-marie. 

This sauce is particularly good with buttered eggs, 
or with quenelles. The white fillets of the rabbits 
and partridges may be taken out, and used for 
quenelles. 



SA UCES, 289 

Fumet of Game Sauce No. 2. 

Put in a stewpan the bones of a hare or rabbit, 
from which you may have taken the fillets, &c for an 
entrde, the carcass of partridge or. pigeon^, or any 
remnants of game, two or three onions sliced^ a sprig 
of thyme, a glass of Chablis. Let the whole simmer 
a short time, faking care that the meat does not stick to 
the bottom of the stewpan. Then pour in broth, in 
proportion to your meat, and let it stew for thirty 
minutes. Pass through the tamis. If there is enough 
meat it may be pounded, and. added to the sauce 
before passing through the tamis ; but if not, add two 
or three spoonsful of brown sauce (that is, sauce 
already made and thickened). Keep hot m the bain- 
marie, and use for cutlets, tendrons, &c. 



Bigarade Orange Sauce. 

Mix some clear veal broth, with double the quan- 
tity of thickened brown sauce, and let it reduce. 

Blanch the rind of two or three oranges, one to be 
Seville, and cut into thin fillets, scraping off the 
white lining ; squeeze the juice of the oranges, and 
take out the pips. 

The sauce must be passed through the tamis 
before the orange juice and fillets are stirred in. 

Then simmer the whole together for a short time, 
and serve in a sauce-boat. 

This is the special sauce for wild duck. 

U 



290 SA UCES. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Put ten or twelve anchovies in a mortar, and pound 
them to a pulp ; pour a little water into the mortar, and 
shake it, put the pulp in a stewpan, let it stew over a 
slow fire, add a quarter of a drachm of Cayenne 
pepper, rub through a hair sieve, and mix with 
melted butter till quite smooth. 

Sage Sauce, and Mint Sauce. 

Put a quarter of a pint of stock in a stewpan with 
a handful of chopped sage. Let it boil for five 
minutes ; add two shallots minced very fine ; pepper, 
salt, and a pinch of sugar (the taste of sugar must not 
be perceived), and two teaspoonsful of French vinegar. 
Warm the whole and serve with roast pork, or pork 
cutlets. 

By substituting mint for sage, the sauce is suitable 
to roast lamb. 

Bread Sauce. 

Cut up the crumb of white bread into thin slices. 
Steep in cold water with some peppercorns, and one 
small onion. Simmer till quite soft. Then beat into 
a nearly smooth paste. To this add \ lb. of fresh 
butter, and two tablespoonsful of cream. 

If no cream is used, milk must be substituted for 
water at the first. 



SAUCES, 291 

OjTSter Sauce* 

Oysters vary so much in size, it is not easy to lay 
down a rule as to the number pf oysters required for 
each guest. But the rule may be laid down that the 
sauce is to contain such a quantity of oysters that 
each guest may have a fair share. 

The required number of oysters must be blanched 
in their own liquor, and then drained. They are in- 
corporated in a rich, cream-like white sauce, and just 
allowed to warm in that. 



Italian Sauce. 

I wine-glass of Chablis | Simmer till reduced to 
3^ wine-glasses of broth [ half the quantity. 

Add mushrooms chopped fine ; 
Half the quantity of shallot ; 
Thyme, parsley ; 
Salt, pepper. 

Make a roux with flour and butter; and stir for 
three minutes on the fire. Then stir in the above 
mixture, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, 
stirring slowly. 

To Purify Lard. 

Put the lard in a jar, and the jar in a saucepan of 
water till it is melted, then pour it into a basin of 
boiling water, and beat it well ; let it stand till cool, 

then remove the lard from the surface of the basin, 

u 2 



292 SA UCES. 

the impurities remaining in the water. Melt it again 
in the jar and saucepan, and pour off into the vessel 
in which it is to be kept. 

To Clarify Suet. 

Cut the suet, which must be quite fresh, into 
shreds ; pick out the bits of skin ; put it in a jar in a 
saucepan of water ; melt and pour into the proper 
vessel. The suet must not be kept, till it is tainted or 
musty, as the melting and washing will not remove 
taint. 

To Clarify Dripping. 

Put the dripping on the fire in a clean saucepan ; let 
it approach the boiling point, but not boil ; then pour 
it into a basin of boiling water ; stir with a wooden 
spoon ; let it cool, and then remove the dripping to 
a jar. Repeat the process if necessary to clear the 
dripping. 



GARNISHES AND ACCESSORIES. 293 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

GARNISHES AND ACCESSORIES TO ENTRIES, 

Meat Stuffing. 

* Force ' meat, so called from the French word ^ farce' 
is made thus : — 

^ lb. of lean veal, or of the back of a rabbit, or the 
breast of poultry uncooked, is to be cut up small and 
then pounded ; i lb. of the suet from the kidney of 
beef, or the fat of half-boiled bacon or ham, is to be 
cut up and pounded ; then mixed with the veal, and 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and fine herbs ; stir in an 
egg. Mix so that the fat and lean meats are perfectly 
amalgamated. Then mix in another ^gg and half a 
wine-glass of water. Test the flavour by poaching a 
teaspoonful. 

Shallots, mushrooms, truffles, little bits of tongue, 
can be mixed in ; they improve both the taste and 
appearance of the stuffing. 

Stuffing for Fish. 

I lb. fine breadcrumbs ; 

1 2 ozs. beef suet, chopped fine ; 

I teaspoonful chopped thyme ; 



294 STUFFING, 

2 teaspoonsful chopped parsley ; 
Pepper, salt. 

Mix thoroughly, and then add the yolks of two eggs. 
Again mix thoroughly, and then add the white of one 

Stuffing for Turkey, Fillet of Veal, &c. 

Take equal weights of breadcrumbs and suet, some 
sweet herbs and lemon peel chopped very fine, chopped 
ham or tongue, or bacon which has been boiled. 
Season with pepper and salt (very little salt, if you 
have used ham, &c.) ; mix thoroughly ; bind with 
an tgg or two which have been beaten together. 

Be sure to have the inside of the turkey, hare, or 
fowl perfectly clean and sweet before you put in the 
stuffing. A lump of charcoal should be put into the 
inside, and allowed to remain for a few hours to purify 
the parts. Hares which have been much shot require 
the utmost care. It is better to send the stuffing up 
as fried balls if there is any suspicion of the hare being 
' high.' 

Stuffing for Rabbit. 

Boil two onions, mash, or cut up very small, ado 
^ lb. of boiled fat bacon or pickled pork, some chopped 
fine herbs, some breadcrumbs, a little pepper, and the 
yolks of two eggs. Mix it into a paste ; wash and 
dry the inside of the rabbit thoroughly before stuffing 



PROFITEROLLES. 295 



Another Stuffing for Turkey or Rabbit 

Make a pur^e of chestnuts, season with pepper and 
salt and lemon peel cut very thin and into small dice ; 
mix in \ lb. fat bacon already boiled, and form a 
paste of the whole. 



Floating Garnish for Soups. 

Besides those vegetable garnishes for soup which 
are called Julienne, Xavier or Brunoise, a variety of 
other garnishes may be drawn from the kitchen garden 
— small branches of cauliflower, very small onions, 
celery stamped or cut into shapes, cardoons treated 
in the same way, lettuce, spinach, or sorrel leaves 
stamped to the size of a florin or of a sixpence. One 
or more kinds of vegetable may be used ; the vege- 
table must be cooked in a small quantity of clear 
soup, and then used as the floating garnish of the 
tureen full. 

Profiterolles for Soup. 

The paste is made in the same way as for sweet 
dishes, leaving out the sugar and orange-flower water. 
The quantity required is much smaller, as the paste is 
to be dropped on to the baking-tin about the size of a 
large pea ; they must be baked of a pale fawn colour. 
These little profiterolles, which are misnamed by cooks 
• prophet's rolls,* must be kept crisp, and only dropped 
into the clear soup at the moment of serving. 



296 FRIED PARSLEY. 

Custard for Soup. 

Prepare a red custard by mixing with the eggs 
and cream a little red carrot pulp, or tomato pulp. 

Prepare a green custard by using the expressed 
juice of spinach, or green asparagus ; and flavour with 
onion pulp a third portion of the custard. 

Pour the different colours into moulds or dishes, 
and let them cool ; then cut them into dice or wafers. 
These coloured custard dice should have a slight 
flavour of the vegetable juices, and should be firm, but 
not leathery .; they are to be warmed in a small quan- 
tity of the soup of which they are to be the floating 
garnisTi,.and placed in the tureen. The rest of the 
soup is then poured over them. 

This soup is known as * potage a la royale.' 

The custard may be used without any colouring, 
or a few drops of cochineal may be used to give 
colour. But this is pleasing the eye, riot the palate. 



Fried Parsley. 

This garnish is frequently referred to as the ac- 
companiment of croquettes, rissoles, &c. The sprigs 
of parsley are washed, shaken dry, but not squeezed, 
and made crisp in butter nearly at the boil. The 
parsley must not lose its colour, which would be the 
case if the butter were at a higher temperature, nor 
become sodden and limp, as would happen if the tem- 
perature were lower. 

Parsley is also used as garnish without being 



HOMINY, 297 

fried ; and watercresses, washed in vinegar and water 
and shaken dry, are another form of garnish. 



Potatoes k la Duchesse. 

Boil, or bake, mash and pass through a tamis. Mix 
with cream, butter, or milk, and form into small balls, 
roll in breadcrumbs and egg, and fry a golden brown. 
Drain on a sieve. Do not dress these on the entree 
where gravy is used. 

Potatoes Fried. 

Cut raw potatoes into the shape of almonds, or 
lozenges, or circles ; wash and dry thoroughly. Fry 
in butter till of a slightly golden colour, drain, and use 
either to fill the centre or surround the sides of entrees 
of beef 

Hominy. 

Boil the hominy in water or milk ; season with 
onions, pepper, and salt. Form into balls, and proceed 
as for mashed potatoes * a la Duchesse.' 

Onions. 

Take twelve onions the size of a walnut when 
skinned and trimmed. Put them in a stewpan with 
butter already melting, a pinch of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, and let them warm for a few minutes ; then pour 
in a teacupful of broth, and simmer till the broth is 
reduced to a glaze. The onion will be tender and 



298 GARNISH A LA FINANCIERE. 

slightly brown, and ready to garnish any dish for 
which onions are suitable. 



Mushrooms. 

Button mushrooms nearly of a size are to be used. 
Put them in a stewpan with butter, fine herbs, and 
chibbals, or onions when no larger than a pea. Warm 
for a few minutes, add a little flour and enough broth 
to moisten ; let them stew till no sauce remains ; 
make a liaison with yolk of egg and a squeeze of 
lemon, into which stir the mushrooms. Fry a round 
slice of bread if the centre of the dish is to be gar- 
nished, and dress on that. 

Olives. 

The large Spanish olive looks best The stone must 
be got rid of by cutting with a sharp knife round and 
round, as in peeling an apple — with this difference, 
that in the case of the apple it is desired to cut the 
peel as thin as possible, and with the olive it is desired 
to cut the peel so that nothing shall be left on the 
stone, and to maintain the form of the olive by 
keeping the spiral rind unbroken. 

Stew very slowly in half stock, half Chablis wine. 
This garnish is always sent up with salmis of duck, and 
often with entries of fillet of beef. 



Garnish a la Financifere. 

Cocks' combs, cocks' kidneys, yery small quenel^ 



ASPIC JELL V. 299 

itbreads cut to the size of grapes, button mush- 
ns, are the materials for this garnish. 
The cocks' combs are generally bought in bottles, 
[f taken from the bird, they must be so trimmed 
le edges as to allow of the blood disgorging, and 
little skin must be rubbed off with a cloth dipped 
oiling water and salt. It takes about eight hours* 
:ing in cold water to disgorge the cocks' combs, 
rhey must be simmered in broth with lemon- 
2 and butter, till three-parts done, and then the 
;r ingredients are to be added with a rich white 
:e, and the cooking completed in this sauce. The 
lish is used with a fricassee of chicken, or to 
. vol-au-vent. 

Egg Balls. 

Take four hard-boiled eggs, separate the yolks 

1 the whites, pass them through a hair sieve, add 
tablespoonful of curry powder, one of flour, four 
yolks, salt and pepper. Mix them into a stiff 

:e, and make them into small balls ; cook them in 
er, boiling for five minutes ; drain them on a 
h, and use for soups or entries. 

Aspic Jelly. 

2 quarts filtered cold' water ; 
6 ozs. gelatine ; 

^ pint French vinegar ; 

I onion ; 

I head celery ; 

I bay leaf ; 



300 



ASPIC JELL y. 



A sprig of thyme ; 

30 peppercorns ; 

A little salt ; 

A very little cayenne pepper. 

Dissolve the gelatine in a small portion of the water, 
add the rest of the water, and set to simmer in a 
stew-pan ; let it cool, and skim off any impurities ; 






CROUTONS OF ASPIC JELLY. 

have ready the whites and shells of four eggs ; whisk 
them in the jelly over a brisk fire till the eggs begin 
to coagulate ; pour on it then the juice of a lemon 
mixed with cold water and strained. Put the lid o" 
the stevvpan ; simmer for a short time ; stram through 
a jelly bag, and fill your garnishing mould, or poi"" 
into a shallow dish, and when cold cut into shapes 
and use as garnish. 



croOtons, Zo\ 

Economical Aspic Jelly. 

Put a quart of white stock {i,e, made from veal or 
chicken) in a stewpan with 6 shallots, i bay leaf, a 
bunch of fine herbs, and 4 ozs. gelatine. Place on the 
fire, and stir till the gelatine is dissolved ; then re- 
move the stewpan, and let it cool ; whip the whites 
of three eggs, and put in with half a pint of cold water 
and a tablespoonful of Maille vinegar. Mix this 
thoroughly with the jelly, and then put the stewpan 
on the fire, and let it come to the boil, and remain at 
the boil for ten minutes. Strain through a jelly bag 
or napkin, and pour into a border mould, or into a 
shallow dish to be cut into crotitons, or to cool for any 
use. 

Sippets or Crotitons. 

Croiitons are pieces of stale bread shaped and fried 
in butter. Slices of bread are to be cut into dice, 
lozenges, triangles, squares, or any other shape, thrown 
into a frying-pan, in which butter has been heated, 
and fried a golden brown. They must be allowed -to 
drain on a piece of paper on a sieve. If to be served 
with soup in the form of very small dice, they are 
dished up on a folded napkin. 

If to be put round mince or spinach, they are 
sometimes soldered to the dish with white of ^gg^ 
sometimes neatly stuck in. 

Simpler sippets are made by toasting bread, and 
cutting into shapes ; or by cutting into shapes and 
<irying the shaped bread in the oven. 



302 CROUSTADES, 

Croustades. 

. The bread should be light, firm, and compact ; a tin- 
baked loaf with an ^^'g in the dough is best. 

Cut into diamonds or rounds ; fry a pale colour 
in butter. If for garnishing, the slices are about one- 
third thick when fried. If they are to contain mince 
or puree, they must cut so thick as to admit of the 
centre being cut out and a well or hollow left for the 
mince. 

If the croustades are to have grilled mushrooms 
or anchovies on them, the size of the croustade and 
its depth must be adjusted to each. 

Croustades No. 2. 

Cut some bread into slices as thick as a finger ; 
shape them as you like ; dip them in milk. Pile one 
upon another in a. dish, and let them stand thus for 
half an hour ; then smear white of egg over them 
with a brush ; dent them down the middle with the 
back of a knife, and slanting strokes at the edges ; 
scatter flour over them ; fry them quickly in hot 
grease, and serve as an adjunct to the vegetables. 

Or, instead of frying them in grease, heat a little 
butter in the frying-pan ; lay the slices of bread in 
it ; do them to a light brown, and serve. 

Breadcrumbs. 

Breadcrumbs are used for a great number of dishes, 
both savqury and sweet, for frying fish and cutlets, for 



GLAZE, 



303 



stuffing and garnish, and for all that is called * au 
gratin/ 

Crumbs may be made either with the crust of 
bread grated and used dry, with the interior of a 
stale loaf crumbled and sifted and dried in the oven, 
or, instead of being simply dried, they may be slightly 
fried in butter, carefully drained, and then used either in 
little heaps round the dish in which roast larks, for 
instance, are served, or in a sauce tureen, as with 
grouse and other game. 

Glaze. 

As glaze made at home is much more delicate than 
that supplied at the grocer's, a small quantity should 
be made from time to time. 

Take a knuckle bone of veal, some of the shin 
bone of beef with a little 
meat on it, any bones of 
cooked meat and poultry, a 
ham bone and some rind of 
bacon, and simmer in water 
for twenty-four hours. Four 
pints of water are to be re- 
duced to one pint. The 
stock-pot must be ver>'^ care- 
fully skimmed at intervals. 
A very little seasoning of pepper and salt only is re- 
quired, but the stock must be kept clean and clear. 
Strain through a hair sieve ; pour into a glaze pot 
or jam jar. Warm by placing this jar in a saucepan 
with water in it when used. 

This glaze will keep any length of time. 




GLAZE POT. 



304 YORKSHIRE PUDDING, 

To Boil Rice. 

Take \ lb. of rice, wash it well in two waters, cold, 
and put the rice into a two-quart saucepan without 
a cover. Fill it three-quarters full of cold water, and 
boil it slowly on a moderate fire, stirring occasionally 
until the grains become done enough, which will be 
known by tasting, as well as by feeling them between 
the finger and thumb. If soft to the heart they are 
ready, which will take about twenty minutes. Now 
put in one tablespoonful of salt, stir up and take off 
immediately, and throw the whole into a colander or 
drainer for ten minutes, and allow the water tO drain 
thoroughly off, and the rice to become free and dry. 

Patna rice is the cheapest and best ; soak it in 
water overnight. It requires less time to boil when 
soaked. The rice becomes lighter from the fact that 
the grains separate more readily. Put the rice on in 
plenty of cold water, stirring it from the bottom of the 
saucepan occasionally. When the grains separate at 
the ends and they appear to form the letter X, the 
rice will be cooked ; the time required is half an hour. 
When the rice is cooked, drain in a colander, and 
place it before the fire, stirring now and then with^ 
fork. Then serve with the soup or dishes of curry. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

This excellent accompaniment to roast beef can 
only be well made when the joint is roasted, not 
baked, and the tin dish can. stand under and receive 
the droppings from the beef. 



BA TTER, 305 

Make a good batter with three eggs, six table- 
spoonsful of flour, a pinch of salt, and enough milk to 
form the batter into a smooth consistent paste. Let 
the tin dish become coated with droppings from the 
meat ; pour in the batter, let it brown, and set at the 
top ; then turn so that both sides are done. Cut into 
square pieces, dress on a napkin, and hand round with 
the roast beef 

Baked Batten 

2 eggs ; 

2 tablespoonsful of flour ; 

\ pint of milk ; 

Rather over \ ounce of butter ; 

A little salt. 

Beat it well and lightly, and bake for about half 
an hour in rather a quick oven. 

To make * toad in a hole ' use this batter, and 
put into it sausages cut in halves or small pieces of 
uncooked meat. 

Frying Batter. 

Put in a basin a quarter of a pound of flour, a small 

teaspoonful of best olive oil, a pinch of salt, a bit of 

t^Utter the size of a walnut which has been melted in a 

^^t-tle hot water, and mix together with one ^^^ ; let it 

^tand an hour, beat two whites of ^g'g to a snow, and 

^^refully work them in. 

If the batter is intended for a sweet dish, omit the 
^^It and add a teaspoonful of brandy. The sweet 
^^tter so prepared is suitable for fritters. 



3o6 SUET PUDDING. 



Suet Pudding and Dumpling. 



I lb. flour ; 

} lb. stale breadcrumbs ; 

\ lb. suet ; 



^ gill milk ; 



A little salt. 

The suet must be very carefully picked over, so 
as to get rid of skin and hard bits, and must be 
chopped very fine. 

Mix thoroughly, so that a smooth paste is the 
result. Have ready a well-floured pudding cloth, and 
make into a long roll or a ball, as may be preferred. 
Allow for the pnste swelling when you tie up the 
pudding. Put on in boiling water, and boil for three 
hours. 

Suet dumplings are small portions of the above 
paste, the size of an tgg, boiled in the same saucepan 
with boiled beef, and served with it 

Pease Pudding. 

Soak a quart or smaller quantity of split peas for 
two hours. Tie up loosely in a clean cloth ; set on 
the fire in a saucepan of cold water, and boil for 
about two hours. ' Rub them through a sieve, mix in 
some butter or cream, an onion, and season with 
pepper and salt. 

Tie up in a well-floured pudding cloth as tight as 
possible this time, and boil for one hour. 

What is left of pease pudding will thicken and 
flavour as soup, any weak stock or broth. 



SANDWICHES. 307 

Herb Powder for Flavouring. 

\ lb. parsley ; 
\ lb. lemon-thyme ; 
\ lb. sweet marjoram ; 
\ lb. winter savory ; 
2 ozs. sweet basil ; 
2 ozs. lemon-peel ; 
6 bay leaves ; 
\ oz. celery seed. 

Gather the herbs before they flower on a dry day, in 
the afternoon. Remove the stalks, dry on white 
paper, dry the lemon-peel, pound the peel and celery 
seed separately, and then the herbs. Mix all together, 
pass through a fine strainer, and bottle. 



Sandwiches. 

Sandwiches may be made with either slices of 
bread and butter, of toast and butter, or of biscuits 
and butter for the outsides. 

Meat, or potted meat, fish, hard-boiled eggs, or 
grated cheese may be used as the lining to the two 
surfaces of bread, &c. Be careful that the slices of 
bread are of the same size and thickness ; choose 
bread of a close, uniform texture. 

Spread the inner surface of each slice with butter, 
and if suitable add a little mustard and salt. 

Chop the meat, ham and chicken, or tongue and 
veal, together ; or if only one kind of meat is used cut 
thin slices, and cover the buttered surface with them. 

X 2 



3o8 SANDWICHES. 

Lay the other piece of bread or biscuit on the meat, 
and press the whole tightly together. 

If fish is used it must be chopped up small, and a 
little cream and pepper and salt mixed in before 
spreading. 

Cheese is to be grated, and for cheese sandwiches 
plain thin biscuits are always used. 

For sweet sandwiches use marmalade. 



VEGETABLES. 309 



CHAPTER XXV. 

VEiGETABLES. 

As we are writing for English readers, and for Eng- 
lish dinner-tables, it may be as well to begin at once: 
with the famous saying of the old cookery book, 

* First catch your hare/ The great thing is first to 

* catch ' your vegetable ; and sometimes this is more 
easily said than done^ for the greengrocer's bill is 
a horror to think of, and vegetables in our ungenial 
climate are by no means what they are in France. 
They are often, if not actually hard and stringy, at 
all events very little nutritious, and in Scotland it 
may be noticed that the leaves of the spinach are as 
unsatisfactory as the radishes that have their eatable 
part in the earth. 

Vegetables grown for the London market are 
full in form and fibre, but they are apt to be 
bleached, and sometimes to taste of the manure of 
the garden, or of the baskets of the market gardener. 
Altogether, vegetables, whether raw or cooked, leave 
a good deal to be desired, and they will continue to 
do so till the unsavoury slovenliness of the English 
market-places is remedied, till there are more cloches 
used to protect the crops from our cold spring winds^ 



3IO VEGETABLES, 

and till the cooking ceases to be left to the tender 
mercies of the kitchen maids. 

Vegetables are notably among the things that are 
better managed in France ; and we may remark in 
passing, that the firm of MM. Vilmorin-Andrieux, of 
4, Quai de la M^gisserie, Paris, supplies garden seeds 
of the very best quality. Their catalogues will 
introduce to the owners of rectory gardens and the 
like many articles of garden growth which would form 
' a good addition to the table, such as the mdcke salads, 
and the many excellent gourds which they advertise. 
This firm accepts payment in English stamps, to say 
nothing of a post-office order, and the tariff for the 
carriage or postage of seeds from Paris is very 
moderate. 

All vegetables have an effect on the chemistry of 
the body, so that we cannot speak too highly of their 
importance at table. We will mention a few of these 
matters first, and dispose of this aspect of the subject, 
so as not to seem to mix the pharmacopceia with 
the kitchen. Asparagus is a strong diuretic, and 
forms part of the cure for rheumatic patients at 
such health resorts as Aix-les-Bains. Sorrel is 
cooling, and forms the staple of that soupe aux herbis 
which a French lady will order for herself after a 
long tiring journey. Carrots, as containing a quantity 
of sugar, are avoided by some people, while others 
complain of them as indigestible. With regard to 
the latter accusation, it may be remarked in passing 
that it is the yellow core of the carrot that is difficult 
of digestion — the outer, a red layer, is tender enough. 
In Savoy the peasants have recourse to an infusion 



VEGETABLES, 31 r 

of carrots as a specific for jaundice. The large sweet 

onion is very rich in those alkaline elements which 

counteract the poison of rheumatic gout. If slowly 

stewed in weak broth, and eaten with a little Nepaul 

pepper, it will be found to be an admirable article of 

diet for patients of studious and sedentary habits. 

The stalks of cauliflower have the same sort of value, 

only too often the stalk of a cauliflower is so ill boiled 

and unpalatable that few persons would thank you 

for proposing to them to make part of their meal 

consist of so uninviting an article. Turnips in the 

same way are often thought to be indigestible, to be 

productive of flatulent misery, and better suited for 

cows and sheep than for delicate people. Yet here 

again the fault lies with the cook quite as much as, 

with the root. The cook boils the turnip badly, and 

then pours some butter over it, and the eater of such a 

dish is sure to be the worse for it. Try a better way. 

Half boil your turnip, and then cut it in slices, like 

half-crowns.^ Butter a pie-dish, put in the slices, 

moisten with a little milk and weak broth, dust once 

with breadcrumbs and pepper and salt (adding a little 

cheese if you prefer it), and bake in the oven till it 

gains a bright golden brown. This dish, which is the 

Piedmontese fashion of eating turnips, is quite un- 

suited for the cows, and ought to be popular. 

What shall be said about our lettuces ? The 
plant has a slight narcotic action, of which a French 
old woman, like a French doctor, well knows the value, 
and when properly cooked it is really very easy of 
digestion. But in our country, though lettuces are duly 
grown in every garden, you often hear the remark, 



312 VEGETABLES. 

* I can't eat a salad ; * and as few cooks know how to 
use the vegetable which has been refused in its raw 
state, the lettuces are all wasted, and so is the ground 
in which they were grown. 

Oh, the wilful waste and consequent woful want 
of our English tables and kitchens ! 

But enough said. Only, before speaking of some 
good dishes, we will add one word about pot herbs. 
Mint sauce has a strong hold oil English affections; 
but tarragon and chervil would be great additions to 
our cookery. As Izaak Walton returned thanks for 
the flavour of fishes, so we ought to value the flavour 
of these garden herbs. They might be to the cottage 
and the parsonage garden what truffles and mush- 
rooms are to the tables of the rich ; and a teaspoonful 
of chopped herbs added to an t%g^ and a pat of fresh 
butter, in a cupful of the liquid in which a fowl has 
been boiled, will be found to be an excellent soup for 
an invalid. It will not only please the taste, but will 
actually soothe some of the forms of dyspepsia. 

Washing Vegetables. 

All vegetables ought to be well washed first in 
salt and water. It is a good thing to turn the tap on 
them and let it run, or to dash them about in deep 
water by means of one of those wire baskets which 
in France are used either for boiling eggs or for 
washing vegetables. 

Potatoes, carrots, and turnips must also be brushed 
in cold water, and kept in cold water till they are 
cooked. 



CABBAGE, 313 

Cabbage, cauliflower, and lettuce must be relieved 
of the outer leaves, and placed in salt and water to 
get rid of caterpillars, &c. It is sometimes necessary 
to divide a cauliflower into several parts and examine 
each carefully to detect the caterpillars. 

The water in which cabbage has been boiled is 
nauseous in the extreme, and if any of it boils over 
or drops on the hot-plate, the whole house becomes 
aware of the accident. The water in which potatoes 
have been boiled is poisonous, and is only good for 
taking greeri fly off" the rose bushes. On the other 
hand, the water in which peas, beans, lentils, or hari- 
cots have been boiled is very nourishing, and will 
make a good foundation for any soup. 

Cabbage. 

To get rid of the disagreeable smell of cabbages, 
put into the water a piece of breadcrumb tied in a 
fine white rag. Take care to throw this into the fire 
after it has been a quarter of an hour in the pot, as it 
will have become very unpleasant. 

The saucepan must.be large, and \ oz. of salt is 
to be used to a gallon of water. The cabbage is to 
be cut in quarters and put in salt and water to clean 
from insects. Drain and shake, and then put in the 
saucepan of quite boiling water, cover for ten minutes, 
and keep on the boil, then take off* the cover, thrust 
down the cabbage, place the saucepan where it will 
simmer instead of boil, and at the end of thirty to 
forty-five minutes the cabbage will be done. Strain 
in a colander, and press with a vegetable presser, or 



314 CABBAGE, 

between plates, till no water remains in the cabbage. 
Serve on a strainer, or cut into squares and dress in a 
circle. Young cabbage and sprouts take from twenty 
to thirty minutes to cook. 



Ladies' Cabbage. 

(American Recipe.) 

Boil a firm white cabbage fifteen minutes, changing 
the water then for fresh from the boiling kettle. 
When tender, drain and set aside until perfectly cold. 
Chop fine, and add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful 
of butter, pepper, salt, and three tablespoonsful of rich 
milk or cream. Stir all well together, and bake in a 
buttered pudding dish until brown. Eat very hot 

We can recommend this dish even to those who are 
not fond of any of the ordinary preparations of cab- 
bage. It is digestible and palatable, more nearly 
resembling cauliflower in taste than its coarser and 
commoner cousin-german. 

Rice and Cabbage Balls. 

(Italian Recipe.) 

The rice should be boiled with a little broth, and. 
onions cut small and fried should be mixed well with 
the rice. Then fry the rice, adding a little water, so 
that it should not thicken too much. When cooked, 
add a little grated cheese and butter. 

Take some cabbage, separate the leaves, put them 
in hot water to half boil, then rinse them. Take 



i 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 315 

each leaf separately, spread the rice thickly on it, 
and roll it up. When all are done in this way, 
take a stewpan with pieces of butter and some onions 
cut very finely, cook them well with a little water. 
Then place the balls of rice in the stewpan, and cook 
them until the cabbage is well done. When cooked, 
throw some grated cheese over them, and serve with 
tomato sauce. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Remove the loose hanging leaves. Put the sprouts 
in a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt, and 
let them cook for fifteen minutes. Let them drain 
on a sieve. Meanwhile, have ready a stewpan with a 
bit of butter. Place the sprouts in this, and let them 
just turn a little brown. Arrange them in a pyramid 
in a deep dish ; dredge some flour, pepper, and salt 
into the butter, and a spoonful of broth, and pour this 
over the sprouts. Garnish with fried croCitons. 



Turnip Tops. 

Turnip tops — that is, the green leaves of the 
turnip — are very good eating, and very wholesome. 
They may be dressed as cabbage or as spinach. 
When dressed as spinach take care to use only the 
leaves, not the stems, and proceed exactly as in 
dressing spinach. 

Cream is more delicate than butter, and if the dish 
is to be used on maigre days, the yolk of an t,gg for 
every two guests may be stirred into the cream ; 



3i6 RED CABBAGE. 

sippets of toast must be placed round, or be stuck 
into, the green mound. 



Red Cabbage. 

Slice the cabbage in thin transverse layers ; throw 
into a pan of cold water, the outer leaves being first 
removed. 

Drain the shreds. Cut an onion in very thin 
slices and mix with the cabbage. Put in a stewpan 
some beef dripping, or some of the fat from cold 
stock, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and let it melt. 
Then put in the cabbage and onion, and cook slowly 
for from four to five hours. 

When the cabbage has soaked up the fat and is 
partly done, mix a teaspoonful of vinegar in half a 
teacupful of stock and pour in, and dredge in a very 
little flour. Simmer on till the cabbage has neairly 
absorbed the gravy. The stewpan must be a well- 
tinned one. 

Colcanon. 

Boil and drain tender cabbage, or greens cut in 
slices, omitting any tough stems if the cabbage is not 
young. Cut cold potatoes into small fragments ; mix 
with the cabbage ; season with pepper and salt, and 
fry in dripping or butter till some of the potato turns 
brown. Dish up in a heaped mound ; garnish with 
sippets of toast or with sausage balls. 



ARTICHOKES, 317 

Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Trim twelve artichokes. Put in a baking dish 
2 ozs. of butter or dripping, with salt and pepper. 
When melted, put in the artichokes, and roast for half 
an hour in the oven, or Dutch oven ; baste frequently, 
and roast quickly so that they become a rich brown. 
Serve in the same dish they are baked in. 

Jerusalem Artichokes au Gratin. 

Boil the artichokes in milk and water till they are 
tender enough to pass through a tamis. Stir in a * 
little cream ; put the pur^e in a shallow china dish ; 
sprinkle the top with grated Parmesan cheese, and 
brown before the fire, as is done with * Macaroni au 
gratin.* 

Jerusalem Artichoke Chips. 

Cut the artichokes in thin slices, as potatoes are 
cut for chips. Fry them in butter a golden brown. 
Place them on white paper before the fire to get rid 
of the butter, and send up on a napkin. 

Globe Artichokes. 

The commonplace way of dressing green arti- 
chokes is to boil them in water. Let the water drain 
away, dish them up on a napkin, and send melted 
butter or Dutch sauce in a tureen, to be eaten with 
them. 



31 8 ARTICHOKES, 

Artichokes k la Barigoule. 

(Fonds d'artichauts. ) 

Parboil the artichokes, one for each person. 
Strip the leaves off the artichokes, and take out the 
choke ; then stuff them with breadcrumbs, parsley, 
mushrooms, truffles, shallots, and any savoury meat, 
all chopped fine, and seasoned to taste. Line a stew- 
pan with bacon, ham, carrots, sweet herbs, and arrange 
the artichokes side by side upon them ; pour over all 
a glass of white wine (Chablis), and let them cook in 
the oven, the stewpan tightly covered, till quite 
tender ; strain the liquid remaining in the stewpan, 
add some baked flour, let it simmer, pass s^ain 
through the strainer, and pour round (not over) the 
artichokes. 

Artichokes a Tltalienne. 

Proceed as in the previous recipe, but make the 
stuffing of fried onion, chopped very small, browned 
breadcrumbs and scraped Parmesan cheese. Finish 
in the oven. 

Artichokes a la HoUandaise. 

Boil the artichokes, make a pur^e with the eatable 
part of the leaves, and use it to fill the bottoms. 
Put a little Dutch sauce on each, and surround the 
bottoms with some more of the sauce. 



ASPARAGUS, 319 

Mayonnaise of Artichokes. 

Proceed as before, let the artichokes get cold. 
Mask each bottom with mayonnaise sauce ; and 
sprinkle chopped parsley and capers, or grated tongue, 
over each. 

Cream of Artichokes. 

Parboil the artichokes, strip off the leaves and 
press out the eatable part of each leaf, remove the 
chokes from the bottoms, and pass through the tamis 
all the pulp thus obtained, season with salt and 
pepper ; and if the taste of onions is liked, add to the 
artichoke pulp a little onion pulp. Mix with double 
cream, and steam in a mould very slowly for about 
twenty minutes. Turn out of the mould, and serve 
with a cream sauce round. This is another of those 
dishes which may be called the vegetarian's dainty 
dishes. 

Asparagus. 

There are two kinds of asparagus, that which is 
green from tip to stem, and that which is green and 
purple at the tip, with a long white stem. The green 
kind takes much less time to boil ; ten to fifteen minutes 
may make it tender, whilst the other kind may re- 
quire as long as thirty minutes. The water in which 
asparagus is cooked must not only boil when the 
bundle of asparagus is put in, but must continue to 
boil the whole time. Salt in the proportion of i oz. 
to 2 quarts of water is to be put in. The bundle of 



320 ASPARAGUS, 

asparagus must be even at the stems' end, so as to 
stand upright in the saucepan, the tips being an inch 
above the water. Care must be taken not to break 
off the tips at any stage, either in cleaning, boiling, 
or dishing up. The water must be allowed to drain 
before placing the asparagus on a bed of toasted 
bread the same length as the asparagus in an oval 
dish. 

Asparagus is sold tied up in bundles with large 
stalks outside and small ones inside ; this makes it 
very difficult to cook evenly. The best plan is to 
take out the small stalks and use them as the floating 
garnish for soup, or as *pointes d'asperge.' Dutch 
sauce should be sent up with boiled asparagus. 

Cold asparagus is an excellent dish, eaten with 
oil and vinegar, or with mayonnaise sauce. 

Sprue and Eggs. 

When asparagus is too long and thin to be served 
en tranche^ a very good dish is made with it thus : 

Cut into lengths of an inch ; boil till tender, but 
not too soft ; drain thoroughly. 

Take three or more eggs, according to the number 
of guests and the available sprue, beat yolks and 
whites separately, and add a little milk and butter, or, 
better still, some cream. Mix in the asparagus, just 
warm in a saucepan, and send up in a deep dish with 
a border of fried bread ; or send up on cushions of 
fried bread, as buttered eggs are sent up. 



BEAXS. 321 

French, or Haricot Beans. 

This vegetable is particularly useful, because it can 
be eaten at three periods of its development. It can 
be grown as a forced vegetable very easily, and it 
bears perfectly the process of being preserved in a tin 
at two of these periods ; whilst in its third period it 
requires mere storage to be ready for cooking at any 
time. 

French Beans. 

When quite young and tender French beans are 
to be cut in the usual slices, cooked in boiling water, 
drained from the water, and a little piece of butter 
placed in the dish with them ; or if they are to be 
served as a dressed vegetable, after boiling and 
draining a * Poulette sauce ' is to be mixed with 
them. 

Flageolets. 

This is the second stage of French beans, i,e. 
when the pod is no longer eatable, and the bean 
inside is fit to be eaten as green peas are. The same 
mode of cooking as for green peas can be adopted. 
When the flageolets are canned, or preserved in 
tins, it is desirable to wash and dry them before 
cooking. 

Haricots. 

This is the third stage of the French bean : it 
has been allowed to complete its maturity, has been 
shelled and allowed to dry naturally. 

Y 



322 BEANS 

Before cooking dry haricot beans, they must be 
steeped in water overnight, and put on in fresh cold 
water. The time required to make them tender de- 
pends on the more or less hard state in which they 
are. Those bought at shops may be more than one 
year old, or may be over-dried. It is well therefore 
to experiment on a few beans. If no experiment 
has been made and the beans prove to be not soft 
enough to receive the savoury part of their treatment, 
the judicious cook will not attempt to send them to 
table that day. 

Let it be clearly understood that the beans must 
be made quite tender by soaking and boiling. 

When quite tender the water is to be drained 
from them, and a little good dripping and flour, a 
pinch of salt, and a sprinkle of pepper are to be 
stirred in, and the beans are to be allowed to absorb 
the fat, and just assume a slight colour before 
serving. At the last moment, add some chopped or 
powdered parsley. 

Windsor Beans. 

When young and tender these beans are to be 
cooked in boiling water with a little salt, drained and 
dried in a cloth, and served with parsley and butter 
stirred in, or with a rich parsley and butter sauce 
handed round. 

When old, these beans must have the tough 
outer skin removed ; and then they must be warmed 
again with a sauce, or made into a thick purde for 
garnishing a dish of cutlets. 



CA ULIFL O WER, 323 

It is usual to send up boiled bacon or pig's 
face with Windsor beans. 



Lentils. 

If fresh, cook them in boiling water and proceed 
IS for peas or beans. 

If dry, soak ; and cook in cold water as haricot 
Deans. 

Cauliflower. 

P'or this vegetable, as for asparagus, the water 
)ught to be not only hot but boiling ; and both salt 
md butter should be added to it while it continues to 
3oil. By paying attention to this rule, and by strain - 
ng quickly, you may avoid the sodden broken-up 
leap which is often served as cauliflower. The stalk 
Dught to be cut across twice, thus, x , so as to allow 
it to cook as quickly as the flowers. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. 

This is a popular dish, but English cooks seldom 
prepare it successfully. To dress this vegetable well 
it ought to be first thoroughly washed, have a cross x 
cut in its thick stalk, and then be cooked in perfectly 
boiling water. Let the head drain, then put it neatly 
in a dish that will stand the oven, and dust it with 
grated cheese. Make a white sauce of milk and 
stock, and get it pretty thick ; stir in grated cheese, 
and when it is smooth mask the cauliflower with it. 
Add breadcrumbs all over the sauce, and put the dish 

Y 2 



324 CELER K 

in the oven, till the whole has got a bright golden 
brown, and serve. 



Scalloped Cauliflower. 

Boil until tender, clip into neat clusters, and pack, 
the stems downwards, in a buttered pudding dish. 
Beat up a cupful of breadcrumbs to a soft paste 
with two tablespoonsful of melted butter, and three 
of cream or milk ; season with pepper and salt, bind 
with a beaten ^^^^ and with this cover the cauliflower. 
Cover the dish closely and bake six minutes in a 
quick oven ; brown in five minutes more, and serve 
very hot in the dish in which it was baked. 

Celery k TEspagnole. 

Select celery which is well grown and not woolly 
inside ; cut it into lengths of six inches, and blanch 
in boiling water. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon ; 
place the celery on these ; mix together four table- 
spoonsful of * espagnole ' and the same quantity of 
broth. Simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Place 
the celery in the proper dish, remove the grease from 
the sauce, and pour it round the celery. 

Turnip-rooted Celery. 

(Celeri rave.) 

This is a kind of celery particularly suited to 
stewing. Care must be taken to wash thoroughly, 
so as to get rid of any earthy matter which adheres 



CARDOONS, 32 s 

to the celery ; the leaves are to be cut ofif about an 
inch from the root, and when the root has become 
large, as it does by midwinter, it may be necessary 
to divide it into quarters. It is to be blanched in 
boiling water, which is salted. Then let it drain till 
no more liquid runs away. Simmer in a rich sauce, 
allowing the sauce to reduce with the celery in it, 
dress neatly in a deep dish and send up the sauce 
round it. As in the case of cardoons, the sauce must 
be of the consistency of cream. 

As turnip-rooted celery is not much cultivated in 
England, it may be useful to add, that it is sown and 
grown like the more common kind of celery, but it 
does not require to be earthed up, and it is less liable 
to suffer from frost It can be used as early as 
October. 

Cardoons. 

This excellent vegetable is little known in England.^ 
The Spanish cardoon is the best sort to grow. 
The stem of the leaf is the part eaten. It must be 
Avhite, firm, and as thick as a finger when dressed. 
The inferior kind shrinks to the size of a pencil, and 
is stringy. 

Remove the green and thready coating, cut into 
lengths of about five inches, blanch in water and 
lemon-juice, stew for three or four hours in white 
sauce. When they are quite tender take them out of 
this sauce and drain thoroughly. Place them in a 

* The best way to grow cardoons is to plant them in a trench, and 
bank them up like celery. The stalks must be blanched before they 
are fit to eat. 



326 VEGETABLE MARROW, 

stewpan with rich brown sauce, almost in the state 
called half-glaze, and let them warm through. Garnish 
with croutons of bread filled with marrow. Cardoons 
or celery which have been braised are very suitable 
for beignets ; the process is the same as that for 
apple beignets, salt being substituted for sugar. 

Vegetable Marrow. 

Do not boil vegetable marrow. If it is to be 
eaten plain, cut in sections, remove the rind and seed ; 
bake in the oven ; baste with butter or dripping, and 
sprinkle a little parsley over before serving, or pour 
Dutch sauce over and around, or a Mayonnaise sauce. 

Vegetable Marrow au Gratin. 

Bake ; pass through a tamis ; add a little cream ; 
put in a shallow dish ; spread Parmesan cheese 
scraped fine on the top and breadcrumbs, and finish 
in the oven as macaroni. 



Vegetable Marrow or Aubergine k la 

Proven9ale. 

Cut each vegetable into two parts ; scoop out the 
seeds ; sprinkle a little salt upon it, and let it stand 
to drain away the water. Fry them in oil. 

Have ready a stuffing composed of breadcrumbs, 
parsley, onions, and oil ; season with pepper and salt. 
Fill each half of the marrow with this, and set it to 
brown in the oven. 



SALSIFY, 327 

Salsify or Mock Oysters. 

(American Recipe.) 

Scrape the roots thoroughly, and lay in cold water 
ten or fifteen minutes. Boil whole until tender; 
drain, and when cold mash with a wooden spoon to 
a smooth paste, picking out all the fibres. Moisten 
with a little milk ; add a tablespoonful of butter, and 
an ^gg and a half for every cupful of salsify. Beat 
the eggs light. Make into round cakes, dredge with 
flour, and fry brown. Salsify when thus prepared 
may be sent up * au gratin ' in a fire-proof china dish, 
or in scallop shells to imitate oysters. The bread- 
crumbs on the top must be browned and steeped in 
butter. 

Salsify Fried. 

Treat the salsify in the usual way as regards 
steeping and boiling, cut into lengths of 3 inches, and if 
the salsify is very large into shorter pieces, but what- 
ever the length may be the pieces should be of the 
same size. Dip in breadcrumbs and egg, and fry 
a golden brown, or coat with batter and fry. 

It is to be remembered that the salsify must be 
thoroughly cooked by the boiling process ; frying 
cooks the outside, but if the inside is not already 
tender, frying does not alter that. 

Salsify may be cut into rounds and warmed in a 
poulette or b&hamel sauce. 



328 CUCUMBER, 



Cucumbers and Beef Marrow. 

Select some young cucumbers ; take off the rind, 
and cut off the two ends. Cut them into slices about 
I i inches thick : blanch them in hot water. 

mm ^ 

Have ready a stuffing made of breadcrumbs, 
parsley, and beef marrow. Scoop out the slices of 
cucumber and fill them with this stuffing. Place 
some thin slices of bacon on a china dish which will 
bear the oven ; arrange the cucumber neatly upon it ; 
pour in a little very good sauce, and let them cook- 
slowly in the oven. Drain them, and serve with that 
sauce which is called half-glaze. 

Kohlrabi Steamed. 

Peel some young kohlrabi and cut into thin slices. 
Steam them slowly till soft with some gravy and a 
small piece of butter. Meanwhile mix a small table- 
spoonful of flour in melted butter, and stir this into 
gravy till quite smooth ; season to taste ; boil it up 
and pour through a sieve over the kohlrabi, which 
should now be quite soft in this sauce. They must 
be covered while boiling in order to keep perfectly 
white. A dessert-spoonful of sugar is boiled with 
them. 

Mashed Kohlrabi. 

Cut the kohlrabi in slices ; boil in salt and water ; 
drain ; mash with a fork, and then pass through a 
tamis. Season with pepper and salt ; stir in cream 



KOHLRABI. 329 

or butter and milk ; arrange in a heaped-up mass ; 
garnish with fried or toasted croOtons, or with balls of 
sausage- meat, or with egg-balls. 



Kohlrabi au Gratin. 

Select a young kohlrabi ; pare it, and cut in thin 
slices. Simmer it in salt and water till quite tender. 
As this takes a long time, which can only be deter- 
mined by experience, put it on in the morning. 
Take it off the fire when tender, and let all the water 
drain away. 

Take a china dish which will bear the fire ; coat 
it with butter and browned breadcrumbs, then put a 
layer of the sliced kohlrabi, with a little cream, then 
a layer of forcemeat, then another of kohlrabi. Mix 
some broth and cream, and pour in a small quantity. 
Strew the surface with fWed breadcrumbs ; finish the 
dish in the oven, and before the fire. 

Lettuce in Stock {au jus). 

The lettuces must be well cleaned and steeped in 
cold water ; cut all to one length, and tie lightly 
together. Put them in a buttered pan ; cover them 
with a buttered paper ; put a piece of onion and a 
bay leaf in beside them, and feed them with broth 
till they soften and swell. They require two hours 
slow feeding and cooking between two fires. 

Take them out, untie the bundle, and serve with 
a little fresh bright stock or with a white sauce. 



330 ENDIVE,. 

Stewed Lettuce. 

Parboil ; strain, and let all the water run away. 
Fry in butter till the lettuces look a russet colour. 
Serve with a rich gravy or an egg and cream sauce. 

A little salt and pepper must not be forgotten. 

Dressed Endive. 

Pick ofif all the outer leaves, leaving only the 
white. Trim the roots and wash the endive in several 
waters, carefully removing any insects concealed in 
the folds of the leaves. Put a large stewpan half full 
of water on the fire. When the water boils throw in 
the endive with a handful of salt ; let the endive con- 
tinue to boil until quite tender. Drain in a colander, 
and also squeeze till all the water is got rid of Take 
each head of endive and cut off the root ; again look 
through the leaves for insects (spreading each leaf 
out with the point of a knife). Chop the leaves small, 
and pass through a coarse wire sieve. Put them in a 
stewpan with 2 ozs. of butter, a pinch of salt, and 
stir over the fire for ten minutes ; add half a gill of 
cream, a tablespoonful of white sauce, and a dessert- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Let the whole sim- 
mer till it is thick enough to bear being put in a 
heap. Garnish with fried croutons, and serve very 
hot. 



MUSHROOMS. 331 



Mushrooms. 

The mode of cooking mushrooms must depend on 

the age and size of the mushroom. Mushrooms grown 

wild have a far more delicate flavour than those 

grown from spawn in mushroom houses and in 

cellars. 

Button Mushrooms. 

These must be chosen of the same size ; they 
must be skinned and trimmed, and the trimmings can 
be used to flavour gravies. 

Put in a stewpan or bain-marie pan some cream 
and a little broth, and dredge in a little flour which 
has been dried. Stir this till it is a smooth sauce ; 
stew the mushrooms in it till they are tender. Serve 
in a deep dish with sippets of fried bread. If the 
sauce is too thin, take out the mushrooms and keep 
warm whilst the sauce reduces to the proper con- 
sistency. 

Large Mushrooms. 

When the mushrooms are large and the gills are 
black, the best way is to sprinkle them with pepper 
and salt, to grill them on both sides, and to serve on 
toast. 

Some mushrooms are best stewed for a quarter 
of an hour in white sauce, with a squeeze of lemon. 
As mushrooms yield a good deal of liquid, the sauce 
must be allowed to reduce after the mushrooms are 



332 TRUFFLES, 

cooked, and yolk of egg may be stirred in the sauce. 
Serve with crotitons of fried bread round or on little 
cushions of fried bread. 



Truffles. 

Truffles may be used as an accessory to savoury 
dishes ; as an ingredient in forcemeat and sauces ; as 
a garnish or as a vegetable. In the latter case they 
are called * Truffes a la serviette,' or * Truffles in a 
napkin.' 

Truffles must be of good quality and with a fresh 
flavour. They are always very costly, and if intended 
to be a dish by itself, truffles must be of the first 
quality. 

Soak them in cold water ; scrub with a brush, 
and do not pare them, but cleanse in more water 
and again use a brush. Boil in a mixture of half 
champagne, half veal broth ; for an hour or an hour 
and a half Drain them, and serve in a heap in a 
napkin. Save the sauce in which they have been 
boiled for gravies and sauces. 

A very useful and less costly flavour for sauces 
can be obtained from * Pelures de Truffes,' sold in 
tins in Paris. 

Onions. 

Before using a sweet onion cut off* a slice at the 
head, and another at the root. The addition of a 
little white wine to the stock (such as Chablis) 



ONIONS. 333 

makes the taste of a stewed onion much more 
delicate. 

Baked Onions. 

The large Spanish or Bermuda onions are the 
only kinds which are usually baked. Wash clean, but 
do not remove the skins. Boil for an hour — the water 
should be boiling when they are put in, and slightly 
salted. Change it twice during this time, always re- 
plenishing with more, boiling hot. Turn off the water, 
take the onions out and lay upon a cloth, that all the 
moisture may be absorbed or evaporate. Roll each 
in a round piece of buttered tissue paper, twisting it 
at the top to keep it closed, and bake in a slow oven for 
nearly an hour. When tender all through, peel them, 
put them into a deep dish, and brown slightly, basting 
freely with butter. This will take perhaps a quarter 
of an hour more. Serve in a vegetable dish, and pour 
over the melted butter, when you have sprinkled with 
pepper and salt. 

Glazed Onions. 

Remove the outer skin of the onions, put them in 
a stewpan in which some butter is dissolved, with 
some sugar, salt, and a small quantity of stock ; 
let them simmer in this till tender all through, and 
brown on the outside ; if required, a little fresh hot 
stock may be added while the simmering goes on. 
The onions must be of the same size, and not too 
large, or the inside will not be properly done. If the 



334 LEEKS 

onions are for garnishing, they must absorb all the 
stock ; but if they are to form a separate dish, there 
must be a larger quantity of stock. The onions 
must be taken out and kept warm, whilst brown 
flour is stirred into the sauce, and simmered for 
a short time. This sauce is sent up round the 
onions. 

Onions k la Poulette. 

Take small white onions of the same size, boil 
them, with a little salt in the water ; when tender take 
them out, and drain thoroughly. Prepare a poulette 
sauce, or a cream sauce, and warm the onions in 
this. 

Stewed Leeks. 

Remove the coarser leaves from the leeks, cut 
them to convenient lengths of about four inches, 
wash them, blanch in boiling water, take out, drain, 
and blanch a second time in water with a little salt, 
drain thoroughly. Then simmer in good sauce, taking 
care there is not too much at first ; it is easy to add 
more liquid, but if too much is used at first a wateO' 
dish is the result. If meat flavour is not desired, th^ 
sauce must be made with cream, or with milk and 
eggs. 

To Boil Potatoes. 

Wash and brush in cold water; if absolutely 
necessary remove the eyes and rough parts, but 



POTATOES, 335 

oung potatoes need never be touched with the 
nife. 

Place the potatoes in a saucepan of boiling water 
nd let them cook slowly for from twenty to thirty- 
ive minutes. 

When quite tender pour away all the water, cover 
he saucepan with a folded cloth, and allow them to 
vaporate on the hot plate for about ten minutes. 

If the skin is to be taken off, this can be done 
•efore the evaporation process ; but, skin or no skin, 
Iways let the evaporation take place cither in the 
lucepan, in the oven, or before the fire. 

Very mealy potatoes must be put on in cold 
ater, as otherwise the outside is done before the 
iddle. 

New Potatoes. 

These should be dug up as short a time as possible 
:r<)re cooking. Wash and brush.* 

Put on in boiling water with \ oz. of salt to the 
1 Jon of water. Boil till tender, that is, for about a 
^rter of an hour. Strain off the water and let them 
^-porate for a few minutes. Fold a napkin in a 
^oden bowl, and serve the potatoes very hot, but do 
t: cover. 

Old Potatoes. 

Peel, and remove eyes and specks ; or if in good 
^ndition wash, brush, and throw into cold water, 
^oceed to cook as above, but do not let the water 
gallop,' or the outside will be a jelly, the inside a stone. 



rjc J-S TA TOES. 

Tt^^sttt r: i^iirrr rzizrses -will be lequirecL Pour away 
ibi -wiisr- r::*T^cr tbe saaoepau with a cloth, and let the 
t^-i^rrsiDrc: ^r^ ^^ -"nr five or ten minutes. 



:e i:: d>s£r sidles some sound round potatoes. 
Ker>:-.ie die siiris. rnash the potato, mix with cream 
cc r"-ilk tfH A frr^ish paste is formed, season with 
c^^s^ ssLt. pepper, chopped herbs, and a shallot Take 
thriee e^;^ m^re or less according to quantity 
recuirei . beat yolks and whites separately, stir in 
the yolks f:r>t. 

I>rJ>p the paste out of a dessert-spoon into boiling 
fat, and tr^ ; or if preferred coat with breadcrumbs 
and e^ before frjnng. 

If a sweet dish is desired, omit the savoury in- 
gredients, use lemon peel, cut in the smallest frag- 
ments, and put sugar instead of salt 



SaTOury Potatoes. 

Take six potatoes with skins in a sound condi- 
tion, clean thoroughly. Bake till the inside is tender, 
but the skin not blistered. Cut off a slice from the end 
of each potato, and scoop out the meal. Mash till 
quite smooth with cream or butter, pepper and salt, 
and a very little Parmesan cheese ; lastly, stir in the 
yolk and white of an ^^% well beaten, and warm in a 
saucepan. Fill the potato skins, put them in the oven 
for a minute or two ; the mixture ought to form a 




POTATOES, 337 

sort of * head ' to the brown skin ; place on a napkin 
on a round dish, and send up to be eaten by them- 
selves. 

If the potato skins are not good, the mixture 
may be put into little china souffle cases. 

This is a good maigre dish, and fish, even 
bloater carefully chopped up, may be mixed in. 



Potatoes k la Maitre d'Hdtel. 

Take cold potatoes which have not been over- 
cooked, and cut them in slices about three-eighths of 
an inch thick, and of nearly the same size ; put them 
in a stewpan with butter or cream, chopped parsley, 
chopped shallot if liked ; salt and pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful or les3 of vinegar. Let them warm through, 
and serve in a deep dish. 



Potato Puff. 

(American Recipe.) 

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potato, and stir 
into it two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beating 
to a white cream before adding anything else. Then 
put with this two eggs whipped very light, and a tea- 
cupful of cream or milk, salting to taste. Beat all 
well, pour into a deep dish,' and bake in a quick oven 
until it is nicely browned. If properly mixed, it will 
come out of the oven light, puffy and delectable. 

• 

z 



338 PEAS. 



Potato Chips. 

Cut raw potatoes in slices, the thickness should 
be one-sixth of an inch ; melt some well-clarified beef 
dripping or kidney fat in the fr\'ing-pan ; when very 
hot put in the potatoes and fry for about six minutes, 
stirring and tossing them so that they do not stick 
together. When they are soft take them out with a 
skimmer and let them drain on a wire sieve whilst 
the fat gets to boiling point ; return the potatoes and 
fr\' for three or four minutes longer, place them on 
paper before the fire till they are dr>', sprinkle a little 
salt on them and ser\'e. 

The second fn^nng causes the slices of potato to 
swell as if they were hollow. The proper colour is a 
rich golden hue, not a dark tint The potato must 
be cooked all through. 



Young green peas require from twenty minutes to 
half an hour. The best way is to work them well into 
butter and water ; then pour off the water, and add a 
little salt and a teaspoonful of sugar. Cover them, 
and let them cook slowly for about half an hour ; but 
towards the end of the season, when the peas begin 
to get meal}', you must give them a glass of water 
while they are cooking. Before serving, work in some 
butter and a pinch of flour, and set them on the fire 
for a short time. Some people add a sliced onion, or 
some shreds of lettuce. 



PEAS, 339 



Stewed Peas, 

I quart peas ; 
3 ozs. butter ; 
I oz. white onion ; 
\ oz. white sugar ; 
A pinch of salt ; 
I gill of water. 

Stew for half an hour in a closely covered stew- 
pan ; when done enough, add 3 ozs. of butter ; toss it 
well in the stewpan, so that it mixes with the peas, 
but do not put it on the fire or it will oiL 



Young Peas 'dressed.' 

(Petits pois a Pancienne mode.) 

Choose a fine lettuce, strip off the outside leaves^ 
open the centre and place in it a fresh sprig of thyme, 
tie it up so that the lettuce may not tumble to pieces. 

Place it in a stewpan with i^ quarts of young 

peas freshly shelled ; \ lb. of fresh butter and a gill 

of water ; not more water, because the lettuce and the 

peas yield a good deal. Add salt, but in moderation. 

Let it cook on a slow fire for twenty minutes, then 

take out the lettuce and allow the peas to stew till 

the sauce is absorbed. Then stir the yolk of ah ^^'g 

into four tablespoonsful of good cream, a teaspoon- 

ful of powdered sugar, and a sprinkle of white pepper. 

Mix this quickly with the peas, so that their heat and 

that of the stewpan warm the cream. Do not put 

z 2 



340 POLENTA, 

9 

the sauce on the fire, or the egg and cream will curdle. 
This is a vegetarian's * dainty dish.' 

Peas and Ham. 

Cut some ham into squares half an inch each way ; 
take some small onions, or else pieces of onion cut 
the same size as the ham ; fry them a light brown ; 
add this to the required quantity of young peas, stir 
in some flour and butter and enough broth for them 
to stew in. 

The time will depend upon the age of the peas. 

Polenta. 

Polenta is made of Indian corn meal ; the grain of 
Indian corn is so hard that some well-ripened kinds 
are called * flint corn.' The mill stones used for 
grinding other grain may be used for Indian com. 
The grain being larger than wheat, it is necessary 
that the stones should be kept wider apart and not 
driven too rapidly, for when the motion of the stones 
is too rapid, the meal becomes heated and injured : the 
cause of injury to the meal is its being ground too 
fine ; ' it kills or deadens the meal.' 

Polenta of Indian meal is made exactly like 
Scotch porridge. While the water is boiling, drop the 
flour in with one hand, stirring incessantly with the 
other with a wooden stick, until a stiff* paste is 
formed, which takes about a quarter of an hour. 
Salt should also be added as it boils. Polenta should 
be more solid than porridge, and ought to cut into 



POLENTA, 341 

Irm slices with a knife or thread. These slices cut 
nto small squares or lozenges, and fried in butter or 
>il, are sometimes served with toasted cheese, or 
)rown gravy, when they form a substitute for a 
egetable. They may be also used to garnish roast 
neat like Yorkshire pudding. Toasted crisply they 
re good as a garnish for dishes like stewed pigeons, 
•r any other with which toasted bread is generally 
ised. 

Polenta No. 2. 

Stir a quart of Indian corn meal into a quart of 
soiling water, add a little butter and some salt, boil it 
nd stir without ceasing till it inclines to stick to the 
►ottom of the saucepan ; now pour the polenta on to 
. round dish, and thence on to the proper dish, to 
erve with either ^meat or fruit. It may also when 
learly cold be cut into thin slices, and laid on a tin 
hickly buttered ; between the successive layers strew 
ome grated Parmesan cheese and some small pieces 
f butter. Bake for an hour in a moderately hot oven, 
n serving, carefully remove the fat. 

Polenta No. 3. 

To each pound of Indian meal add three tumblers 
f water (about i J pints). The water must be boiling, 
nd mixed gradually with the meal, stirring it all the 
ime it is on the fire, lest it should form lumps. Add 
little salt, and let it boil ten minutes. When cooked 
: may be eaten with milk. 



342 HOMINY, 

Indian Com Porridge. 

(American Recipe.) 

To make a soup-plate full of porridge, put 2i 
pints of water and a teaspoonful of salt in a sauce- 
pan on the fire ; when it boils scatter in with one 
hand about a pint of the Indian corn meal, stirring 
all the time with the other ; let it boil for nearly 
half an hour ; stir all the time. It makes a substan- 
tial breakfast or supper if boiled in milk or broth 
instead of water. 3^ lbs. of the meal make porridge 
for ten persons. If cooked in either milk or water, 
cold milk should be eaten with it. 

Hominy. 

(American Recipe.) 

Homin}' is made of the broken grain of the 
Indian corn. It should be soaked overnight in warm 
water, changed in the morning to clean cold water 
and boiled gently for an hour and a half When 
cold, warm it over, eat with milk, molasses, bacon, salt, 
or alone. 

Observe : that Indian corn requires thorough 
cooking in all its preparations, as if not sufficiently 
boiled or baked it loses its flavour and becomes indi- 
gestible. 

Boiled Hominy. 

(American Recipe.) 

If the large kind, soak overnight in cold water. 



HOMINY. 343 

Next day put it into a pot with at least two quarts of 
water to a quart of hominy, and boil slowly for 
three hours, or until it is soft. Drain in a colander, 
heap in a vegetable dish, and stir in butter, pepper, 
and salt. 

Soak the small hominy in the same way, and boil 
in as much water slowly, stirring constantly to the 
last. It should be thick, and may be eaten at break- 
fast with sugar, cream, and nutmeg. It is a good and 
wholesome dish for children. The water in which it 
is boiled should be slightly salt. If soaked in warm 
water and the same be changed once or twice for 
warmer, it will boil soft in an hour. Boil in the last 
water. 

Fried Hominy. 

(American Recipe.) 

If the large kind, put a good lump of butter or 
dripping in the frying-pan, and heat. Turn in some 
cold boiled hominy, and cook until the under side is 
browned. Place a dish upside down on the frying- 
pan and upset the latter, that the brown crust may be 
uppermost. Eat with meat. 

Cut the small hominy in slices and fry in hot lard 
or dripping. Or, moisten to a soft paste with milk, 
beat in some melted butter, bind with a beaten ^^^, 
form into round cakes with your hands, dredge with 
flour, and fry a light brown. 



344 SPINACH, 



Hominy Croquettes. 

(American Recipe.) 

To a cupful of cold boiled hominy (small-grained) 
add a tablespoonful of melted butter and stir hard, 
moistening gradually with a cupful of milk ; beat to 
a soft, light paste. Put in a teaspoohful of white 
sugar, and lastly a well-beaten egg. Roll into oval 
balls with floured hands, dip in beaten tgg, then in 
rusk crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Spinach, Chicory, and Sorrel. 

The leaves of these vegetables are treated in the 
same way. If not young and tender the stems must 
be removed before boiling. 

Wash, cook in boiling water, drain from the water, 
chop, and pass through the sieve or tamis. 

Warm with either cream, butter, or good stock. 
If liked, one or two yolks of eggs may be stirred in. 

These vegetables may be used as garnish for the 
centre of cutlets, &c. ; or as second-course dishes. In 
the latter case they must be sent up in a deep dish, so 
as to keep warm ; arranged as a pyramid, and dotted 
over, or framed in with fried croutons. These may 
be the shape of wafers, triangles, almonds, or crescents. 

As garnish to cutlets, turnip tops or green cab- 
bage may be dressed like spinach when the latter is 
not plentiful, only the tender leaves being used. 



TOMATOES, 345 



Spinach dressed in German Fashion. 
Wash it clean, and boil for a quarter of an hour 

m 

with some salt. Then squeeze quite dry, and cut 
very finely. 

Mix 6 ozs. butter, i oz. breadcrumbs, and some 
very finely minced onion, and a quarter of a pint 
of cream or good milk. Boil all up together v^ith 
the spinach, and serve. 

Dressed Tomatoes. 

Select tomatoes of an equal size, ripe but not over- 
ripe, cut a slice off the stem part, so as to be able to 
take out the pulp without breaking the rind. Remove 
all the seeds, or pips, stew down the pulp and mix 
with it shallots, parsley, a little grated ham, and 
browned breadcrumbs with yolk of egg, and salt to 
taste. Let the mixture be quite smooth ; when cold 
fill your tomato rinds, sprinkle buttered breadcrumbs 
on each, and finish in the oven. The dish which is 
put in the oven must be buttered, and the tomatoes 
must be basted with butter. 

When tomatoes are small, or of irregular shapes, 
the above mixture may be baked, and sent up in 
china souffle cases. 

Tomato Souffle. 

Prepare tomato pulp, taking care that it is not too 
liquid ; stir in the yolks of three eggs (or more if for 



34.6 TO MA TOES. 

a large number of guests), and then the whites well 
beaten. Fill either a large souffle case, or a number 
of small ones ; and bake as other souffles. 

Omelette with Tomatoes. 

Take three or four ripe tomatoes, and cut them in 
dice* Chop up a couple of onions, and fry them in 
oil (or butter) ; when they are turning yellow add the 
tomatoes, and let them cook so as to evaporate the 
water of the tomatoes ; then add a little chopped 
parsley. 

Make an omelette in the usual way, pour the 
tomato mixture on the middle, double up the omelette, 
so that there appears to be nothing but omelette, and 
send up on a long oval dish. 

Tomatoes a la Proven^ale. 

Slice off the top of each tomato, take out the pips, 
and then scoop out the interior. Have ready a 
stuffing composed of breadcrumbs, parsley, onions, 
tarragon, salt, pepper, and oil. Mix this with the pulp 
of the tomato, replace in the rind, and let them cook- 
in the oven for forty minutes ; if the tomatoes are 
watery, let the water drain away before you mix in 
the stuffing. 

Indian Corn and Tomatoes. 

Take equal quantities of green corn and tomatoes 
sliced and peeled. Stew together half an hour; 
season with pepper, salt, and a veiy little sugar. Stew 



TURNIPS, 347 

fifteen minutes longer, and stir in a large lump of 
butter. Five minutes later, pour out and serve. 

Indian corn must be simmered in water till it is 
quite soft ; no time can be assigned, as it varies with 
the state of the corn ; it must be drained quite dry 
before the tomato pulp is mixed with it. 

Purde of Turnips. 

Cut up the turnips into small pieces, pour cold 
water on them, and let them steep and strain. 

Put them in a stewpan to stew with a piece of 
butter, and add pepper and salt. When they are soft 
pass them through the tamis. With a little spoonful 
of hot water or hot broth, wash out the pan in which 
they were cooked, and add all to the pur^e. Serve 
as a dressed vegetable, very hot. 

Glazed Turnips. 

Turn out the turnips all of the same rather 
pointed size and shape, wash them in cold salt and 
water, and strain. Place them in a deepish pan up- 
right, and let them boil in broth with a little sugar. 
Take them off the fire when soft ; have some glaze 
ready ; get them out of the pan without breaking, 
and glaze them with the thick stock. 

Turnips au Gratin. 

Cut in slices as thin as a crown piece ; steep in 
cold water and strain ; then lay them in a buttered 



348 TURNIPS, 

dish that will bear the oven, and finish as for cauli- 
flower * au gratin.' 

Turnips. 

Mashed turnip is a favourite accompaniment of 
boiled mutton, of Prince of Wales' cutlets, &c. The 
turnips must be boiled till tender enough to be passed 
through a sieve. The pulp must then be placed in a' 
cloth, which is rolled and wrung, one person at each 
end of the roll. The pulp is then to be mixed with 
cream or butter and flavoured with salt and pepper. 



Turnips k la Poulette. 

Shape into pears, blanch in boiling water, drain. 
Prepare a white sauce with flour and water, butter, 
a pinch of sugar, and a little stock ; put in the turnips 
and let them cook till done. Place the turnips on the 
dish in which they are to be served. Stir the yolk of 
one or two eggs into the sauce, let it just keep hot for 
two minutes, pour round the turnip, and serve. 



Carrots a rAllemande. 

Trim the small Dutchhorn carrots so that they are 
all of the same shape ; that is, the real shape of the 
carrot, but not too sharp at one end or too thick at 
the other, and not longer than i^ inches. 

Parboil in water with a little salt ; drain. Then 
place in a saut^ pan with one pint of stock, 2 ozs. of 
butter, I oz. of sugar, and let simmer for half an 



CARROTS. 349 

hour ; then let it boil briskly till the sauce is reduced 
to a glaze. Roll each carrot in this, and form into a 
dome of carrots ; surround with a rich sauce, either 
brown sauce flavoured with lemon juice, or cream 
sauce, flecked with chopped parsley. 

Stewed Carrots. 

Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut. When melted add an onion cut into shreds. 
Simmer for three minutes ; add four times as much 
beef dripping as the butter, and a little salt. 

Previously cut your carrots into pieces, the length 
and size of the little finger. 

Put them in the pan, shake and add a teacup of 
water, so that it does not touch the carrots. 

Stew in a well-closed saucepan for two hours, or 
till the edges of the carrots look brown. Add two 
lumps of sugar reduced to powder a quarter of an 
hour before serving. Shake the stewpan Well, but 
do not use a spoon. 

Carrots Jt la Poulette. 

Parboil the carrots, cut them to the shape of a 
tall thimble or cork, glaze with caramel, and serve 
with a poulette sauce. 

Carrots ^ la Bechamel. 

Parboil the carrots, cut them to the shape and 
size of a walnut, warm in a thin bechamel sauce. 



350 CURRIED VEGETABLES, 

send up with croutons in a deep dish. When carrots 
are deficient in natural sweetness, a little sugar must 
be added. 

Carrots Fried. 

Cut the carrots in rounds, blanch them, drain, and 
fry as potatoes. Let the fat, or butter, absorb on 
paper, and serve very hot 

Carrots and Green Peas. 

Young carrots are to be cut in fillets, or dice, and 
an equal quantity of young peas are to be added ; 
simmer the carrots in a small quantity of butter and 
water till half done, add the peas, and when they are 
done, stir in butter and flour. Serve hot 

Curried Vegetables. 

Take carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a small 
proportion of apple, slice them up, fr^' in butter or 
dripping, sprinkle with curry powder and let them 
absorb it. Stir some curry paste in with either milk 
or broth, simmer the vegetables in this till they are 
tender, prepare rice as for other curry, and send up 
the vegetables and rice in a divided dish. The 
vegetables must absorb all the sauce in which they 
are simmered. 

Butter and milk are to be used when a 'maigre' 
dish is desired ; dripping and broth on other occa- 
sions. 



SALADS. 351 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

SALADS. 

John Evelyn, the illustrious author of the ' Sylva/ 
held * sallets/ as he calls them, to be an essential part 
of the daily food of man, and that no dinner is com- 
plete without one. They add a zest to more solid 
viands ; they are anti-scorbutic, and purify the blood, 
and, if properly dressed, they assist digestion. We 
are so entirely of John Evelyn's opinion, that we are 
tempted to devote a chapter to this subject. 

The term salad is commonly applied in England 
to a dish or bowl of lettuce leaves mingled with 
mustard and cress, which used to be habitually served 
with a mixture of yolk of egg, cream, vinegar, mustard, 
salt, and pepper prepared beforehand, and poured out 
of a ribbed glass bottle. This singular compound, 
which is peculiar to this country, may well explain the 
fact that salads are not so popular in England as in 
most other countries, and are commonly held to be 
indigestible, if not unpalatable, food. But a salad 
dressed after this fashion must be regarded as a salad 
of the dark ages, to be partaken of with hesitation and 
distrust. The primary condition of a good salad is, 
that it consists of cold fresh vegetables, either uncooked 



352 SALADS. 

or cooked, dressed with an abundance oi good olive oil 
and a slight flavour of the best white wine vinegar, to 
which may be added a little salt and mustard. The 
proportion should be four or five tablespoonsful of oil 
to one of vinegar. In our humble opinion whatever 
is added to this simple preparation is rather injurious 
than othenvise. It is essential that the salad be thus 
made only a few minutes before it is eaten. If it be 
allowed to stand, even for half an hour, the leaves 
of the lettuce lose their crispness and become sodden. 
The oil being poured from a spoon over the leaves 
cut into pieces of a moderate size, not too small, 
the whole salad should be carefully turned over 
and over again with the salad fork and spoon (the 
French call \tfatiguer la salade) until every part of it 
receives an equal share of the liquid. Without good 
olive oil no salad worthy of the name can be made 
and it is the presence of the oil which softens, corrects, 
and makes wholesome the crudity of the plants. The 
vinegar should be added and stirred in after the oil is 
well distributed over the leaves. 

The lettuce is undoubtedly the queen of salad 
vegetables, and its merit is rather impaired than aided 
by the addition of mustard and cress, although these 
have their advantage when no other green food can 
be obtained. A slice or two of beetroot, a head of 
celery cut up, and, to some tastes, a suspicion of onion 
or shallot, are improvements. Tarragon vinegar may 
be used with advantage by those who like the flavour 
of that herb. 

Lettuces can now be grown or purchased during 
a great part of the year, though they are not always 



SALADS, 353 

cheap. But, in default of lettuce, the endive of two 
sorts, the smooth Batavian endive and the curled 
endive, affords an excellent resource. In winter 
corn salad (French mdche\ which may easily be grown 
and stands all weathers, is a valuable leaf and very 
wholesome. 

But salads are not confined to fresh green vege- 
tables. All vegetables, dressed cold with oil and 
vinegar, belong to the same class. The cucumber, 
eaten raw with vinegar, oil, and pepper, is the most 
common form of salad in England, where, oddly 
enough, it is habitually served either with the fish or 
with the cheese. An excellent salad is made of cold 
slices of beetroot and Portugal onion (boiled) placed 
alternately on the dish, or of cold boiled asparagus, 
seakale, or cauliflower, or even of cold boiled potatoes 
sliced. The most elaborate form of salad is the Salade 
Russe, consisting of cold beans, carrots, olives, ancho- 
vies, and other condiments, which form a substantial, 
not an auxiliary, dish to be introduced towards the 
close of a dinner. 

It may here be remarked that the proper moment 
for serving and eating green salads is with roast meat, 
and more particularly with the game or poultry of 
the second course. There are people who, without 
being professed vegetarians, would rather eat a salad 
without meat than meat without a salad. 

Every one has different ideas of what a salad 
should be, and most English people start by saying, 
* I never eat oil* Now, the soul of a salad is its oil. 
Let the oil be fresh, got from the best Italian grocers, 
and kept in a cellar on its side. It ought not to be 

A A 



354 SALADS 

kept uncorked, arid for many purpoises it is best to 
make a hole through the cork and to drop the oil 
drop by drop. Some of the salads described here 
may, however, be made without oil, or by substituting 
the salad sauce of English country houses — a com- 
pound of cream, mustard, and vinegar. 

We begin by describing Madame's Salad, or 
that which a French lady, if she has two or three 
guests at table, prepares with her own hands. The 
lettuce has been cut and washed not more than an 
hour before dinner — and here let us mention that a 
salad cut early, and left in the scullery till ^ P.M., 
will never be a good thing, though it might have 
been had it not left the garden till the gardeners were 
* coming off work ' at 6 P.M. Five minutes in very 
cold water is a good thing for lettuces ; they must 
then be placed in a wire basket, which is shaken so 
as to get rid of every drop of water which may ad- 
here to the leaves. 

Madame's Salad. 

Put the yolk of a fresh ^^'g in the salad bowl, and 
beat in it a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, 
and a teaspoonful of mustard. Add two teaspoonsful 
of vinegar and three tablespoon sful of oil. Beat and 
work all together. Tumble in the lettuce, and roll it 
round and round till it has worked up all the sauce. 



Russian Salad. 

Cut into small shapes the following vegetables : 



RUSSIAN SALAD, 



355 



Potatoes 
Carrots 
Turnips 
Artichokes 



Cauliflower 
Spanish onions 
Capers 
Olives 



Parboil ; drain dry ; warm in butter ; drain again ; 
nd let them cool. 







SHAPES OF CUT VEGETABLES. 

Prepare the day before some dry plain biscuits by 
Daking and colouring with spinach. Pass through a 
imis. Beat four yolks of eggs up with oil and 
lustard, and stir in the biscuit preparation, and half 
pint of cream ; add some small bits of chicken, 
Dngue, or fish. 

Surround with aspic jelly and serve in a glass 
ish. 

July Salad. 

Some slices of cold potato and of green chilies, 
alf as many slices of beetroot, and twice as many 
ices of cucumber ; two teaspoonsful of vinegar, or, 
3tter still, a small ladleful of mint sauce, three table- 
)oonsful of oil, and fresh lettuces enough to take up 
) much oil. 

A A 2 



356 WINTER SALAD. 



Potato and Truffle Salad : called k la Demidoff. 

Rub the bowl with oil. Lay a row of slices of 
cold potato (the best potatoes are those that were 
done in the oven), and then a row of slices of truffle, 
cut very thin. The best truffles are those that have 
been cooked in white wine and allowed to get cold. 
Alternate layers of these should finish by one of 
truffles. Put all round tiny white onions and stoned 
olives, and work the whole up with oil and vinegar, 
or oil and white wine. This salad, unlike a lettuce 
salad, is the better for being left for two hours in the 
pantry. 

Winter Salad. 

Do not boil the potatoes for this dish, but bake 
or roast them. Cut them into pieces, not slices, and 
water them well, while still warm, with red wine. 
Let them get quite cold. Then add some celery and 
beetroot, or some tomatoes cut into slices, and give 
very little vinegar, but plenty of salt and of oil. 
Work all together. 

Jardiniere Salad. 

Cut into fine slips, as if for a Julienne soup, carrots, 
beetroot, turnips, potatoes ; add haricots, green peas, 
and lentils. Boil them with a little butter in the 
water, and let them become cold. Put some oil or 
some Mayonnaise sauce in the salad dish, add a pinch 
of cayenne pepper, salt, and a spoonful of mustard. 



BEETROOT, 357 

and work all together with a dessert-spoonful of 
vinegar. 

Cucumbers. 

When sliced up they ought to be sprinkled with a 
little salt, and left to drip out their moisture for two 
hours. Lay the slices on a fine clean towel, and dry 
them before seasoning. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Choose a young tender cucumber ; peel it and 
take out the seeds ; cut it in slices and lay them in a 
dish, scattering a little fine salt over them. At the 
end of a quarter of an hour drain out the water, and 
serve them with a dressing of oil and vinegar, pepper, 
salt, and a pinch of parsley chopped fine. 

Beetroot. 

Wash, but do not scrape or touch with a knife, or 
the colour will be lost. 

Boil for two hours ; or, which is better, bake till 
tender, five or six hours. Let the beetroot get cold, 
cut in slices a quarter of an inch thick, range in a 
circle on a dish. Boil and cut up a Portugal onion, 
chop up and put in the centre ; make a salad dressing 
with oil and vinegar (proportion three measures of oil 
to one of vinegar), pepper and salt ; and serve as 
salad. 

N.B. It is a mistake to mix beetroot with lobster 
salad ; the sweet flavour ol beet does not harmonise 
with lobster or prawn. 



358 POTATO SALAD. 

Potato Salad. 

Take cold potatoes, cut them in slices, and, if 
cucumbers are in season, slices of cucumber pre- 
viously drained of their water. Arrange in a circle, 
in alternate slices ; make a salad dressing with oil, 
vinegar, fine herbs, pepper and salt, and pour it over 
the potatoes. 

Slices of beetroot, or of Portugal onions, may be 
used instead of cucumber. 

Celery and Truffles. 

Take the hearts of some well -grown celery ; cut 
them into neat lengths of about three-quarters of an 
inch ; dress them with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. 
Cut up some Pdrigord truffles into pieces smaller than 
the celery and mix with them. 

Seakale Salad. 

A salad is prepared at All Souls' College, Oxford, 
of seakale, previously boiled and served cold with the 
usual dressing. The duty of preparing the salad of 
the day devolves on the two junior fellows of that 
ancient and renowned college. 



SWEET DISHES. 359 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

SWEET DISHES AND SAUCES. 

The Choice of Egrgs, Butter, Milk, and Cream. 

A BAD EGG, even a doubtful egg, is to be thrown 
away without any consideration that it has cost one 
penny or threepence. If eggs are dear, such dishes as 
require many or any eggs must be discarded, and 
other dishes substituted. It is a rule in using eggs 
to break each into a cup separately, so that a bad 
egg may not be thrown into the pudding, and thereby 
ruin the whole composition. 

Bad butter, that is rancid or tainted, should never 
be admitted into any house. To call it cooking butter 
is a misuse of words. Salt butter is a different article, 
and is not unwholesome, though it cannot be used for 
dainty dishes, and it must be well washed under a 
running tap of cold water before it is used at all. 
Hard butter keeps longer than soft. 

It must be borne in mind that milk does not re- 
tain its condition of blended milk and cream for more 
than twelve hours ; at the end of that time the cream 
has risen to the surface, and cannot be satisfactorily 
remixed with the milk. 



36o . CUSTARDS, 

The cream must be dealt with by itself, the skimmed 
milk by itself. 

If new milk (that is, fresh from the cow) can be 
had, so much the better. If cream is wanted, the milk 
must stand twelve hours ; the cream should then be 
skimmed off, and the milk used for various purposes. 
A small piece of fresh beef suet added to skimmed milk- 
replaces the fatty matter of the cream. 



% 



Custards and Creams. 

In heating milk for custards always use a bain- 
marie — that is, the saucepan with milk is to stand in 
another saucepan which contains water. The milk 
must not be allowed to boil. 

The rule is five eggs to a quart of milk, and a 
tablespoonful of sugar to each egg ; creams and custards 
which are to be iced require more sugar than those 
not frozen. 

In mixing eggs and hot milk, stir a small quantity 
of the milk into the eggs slowly, so that the eggs may 
not curdle in the milk. 

A very moderate degree of heat must be employed 
for all sauces thickened with yolk of Qgg. If boiled 
slowly with water cold at first, the yolk sets before 
the white, and both yolk and white become indigest- 
ible when cooked too long ; an omelette becomes 
tough if left in the pan. 

In baked puddings the custard separates into curds 

and whey if the heat of the oven is too great 

For this reason rice, tapioca, &c., must be cooked 



X 



PUDDINGS, 361 



as long as each may require before the eggs are added 
to them in making puddings which are to be baked. 

Puddings. 

The basins or moulds in which puddings are to 
be boiled are to receive a thin coating of butter. The 
butter must be washed carefully, so as to get rid of 
any salt in it. 

When a cloth is used instead of a basin, it mujt 
be dipped in hot water, squeezed dry, and then spread 
out over a pan and coated with flour. 

A batter pudding is tied lightly in the cloth. 

A bread or a plum pudding requires room to 
swell. 

Pudding cloths must be washed in boiling water 
and perfectly dried before they are put away. They 
must be of different sizes, according as they are to be 
used for tying over basins and moulds, or for receiving 
the pudding itself. 

Custard Puddings. 

There are two kinds of custard pudding, the one 
made with whites of eggs, the other with yolks. It is 
desirable to select that kind which utilises the eggs 
left by other dishes. The proportion and mode of 
cooking are the same for both. 

6 eggs (whites or yolks) ; beat, if whites, to a froth ; 
2 gills of cream ; 
A little sugar ; 
A very little salt ; 



I 



362 CREAMS. 

2 tablespoonsful of liqueur, or a flavour of bitter 
almonds or lemon. 

Steam slowly in a mould in the bain-marie for 
about twenty minutes. If the water is allowed to 
boil, the pudding will "be tough instead of elastic and 
light Serve with a fruit sauce. 

Custard. 

I quart of milk ; 
\ lb. of sugar ; 
10 eggs. 

Warm the milk in a milk saucepan. When on 
the point of boiling, take off and strain into a basin ; 
let it cool ; stir in the sugar and the eggs well beaten ; 
strain into a jug ; stand in a saucepan of boiling 
water, and stir one way till it is thick. The custard 
would be spoiled by letting the mixture boil after the 
eggs are in. Serve cold in custard cups or a glass dish. 

Creams to be served in China Cream-pots. 

This is a more elegant mode of serving creams 
than in moulds, the flavour being always lowered by 
the unavoidable addition of gelatine or isinglass to 
make the cream stiff enough to *turn out' 

Chocolate Cream. 

Take \ lb. of the best French chocolate and scrape 
fine ; add just enough milk to enable the chocolate 
to dissolve and to cook for ten minutes. Take it 



CREAMS. 363 

away from the fire ; let it cool, and then put to it a 
pint of cream and sugar to taste. 

Beat up the yolks of eight, the white of one, egg ; 
mix with the chocolate cream ; strain and pour into 
the pots ; stand them in a bain-marie (with very little 
water, or it would drown such little pots) ; let the 
mixture set. Talcs the pots out and put in a cool 
place till time to serve. This quantity will fill twelve 
or fifteen pots. 

Strawberry Cream. 

Remove the stems of a quart of ripe fresh straw- 
berries ; bruise them slightly ; cover with \ lb. of 
powdered sugar. Let them stand for three hours, 
then rub through a fine sieve. Stir together a pint 
of milk and a pint of cream ; or use all cream. 
Sweeten slightly, and warm. Stir in the strawberry 
pulp, whisk the mixture, fill small china or glass cups, 
and serve them on a napkin if the cups do not fit into 
a dish. 

Raspberries, or other fruit, may be treated in 
the same way. When the fruit is not quite ripe, it 
should be stewed before mixing with the cream. 

Velvet Cream. 

Take a large teacupful of white wine, the juice of 
a fine lemon, \ oz. of isinglass, and sugar to taste. 
Let them simmer together till the isinglass is dissolved. 
Strain the mixture, add one pint of cream, and stir 
the whole till quite cold. Pour into a mould and let 
it stand till set. 



364 



BLANC MANGE, 



Blanc Mange. 

2 pints of fresh milk ; 

1 pint of cream ; 

2 ozs. Nelson's gelatine (dissolved in water) ; 
The peel of a lemon ; 

Sugar to taste. 

Boil for twenty minutes ; put in a basin and let 
it cool, then pour in a glass of sherry or a liqueur 




MOULD GARNISHED WITH PRESERVES. 

glass of any liqueur, or a few drops of essence of vanillc, 
or of bitter almonds, to give flavour. 

Decorate a mould with clear jelly coloured or a 
little of the blanc mange coloured, and then fill up ; 
let it cool completely, or take a plain mould having a 
well in the centre to be filled and garnished with fruit 
It must be stiff enough from the gelatine to turn 
out without breaking ; but it must melt in the mouth, 
not be eaten by the bite of teeth. 



\ 



Soufflds. 

It is desirable to begin the directions for making 
souffles by stating that flour, and even potato flour, 



SOUFFLES, 365 

i,e, starch, are not to be used when a refined souffle 
is wanted. The ingredients are to be limited to eggs, 
butter, and the flavouring matter. 

A good many eggs, and those of the freshest, 
must be used. 

For ordinary souffles, potato flour may be used, 
but not flour which, from its containing gluten, is less 
elastic. Potato flour is really potato starch. 



Sweet Souffles. 

It is necessary to have plenty of fresh eggs, a 
proper dish, and a manageable oven, in order to 
send up a souffle ; and it must be accepted as the 
rule, that the guests may wait for the souffle, but 
that the souffle cannot wait for the guests. 

Put in a milk saucepan : i^ pints of milk, two 
tablespoonsful of potato flour (that is, potato flour as 
sold by grocers), a tablespoonful of pounded sugar, a 
pinch of salt, essence of vanille, or other flavour ac- 
cording to taste. Stir, and keep on the fire till it is 
a perfectly smooth paste. 

Break six eggs, put the yolks in a basin, the 
whites on a dish ; beat the whites to a snow, stir the 
yolks in after a few minutes, and then the whites 
Pour the whole into the souffle case, bake in a quick 
oven for about twenty minutes, or till it has risen ; 
and be sure there is not one minute of delay in the 
souffles being taken from the oven to the dinner table^ 
not to the service table. 



366 SOUFFLES. 

Omelette Souffl^e. 

6 yolks of eggs ; 
6 ozs. of powdered sugar ; 
A little salt ; 

A tablespoonful of potato flour ; 
A little flavouring, i.e, orange-flower water, or 
essence of vanille. 

Work with a wooden spoon into a creamy batter, 
and then mix in the whisked whites of nine eggs. 

Pile on an earthenware or china dish, and bake 
in the oven for fifteen minutes. Dust sugar on the 
top, and serve at once. 

Omelette Soufflee. 

Six eggs, six tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, 
the juice of a lemon, and half the peel, grated. 

Beat yolks and whites separately, and very well. 
Add to the yolks by degrees the powdered sugar, 
and beat until it ceases to froth, and is thick and 
smooth. The whites should be stiff* enough to cut 
with a knife. Stir together lightly with the seasoning; 
pour into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a quick 
oven five or six minutes. The dish should be warmed 
when it is buttered, not to chill the eggs. Let it be 
handed quickly before it can fall. 

Chocolate Souffle. 

\ pint of milk ; 

3 tablets of chocolate ; 

4 fresh eggs. 



V 



SOUFFLl^S, 367 

Scrape the chocolate and cook it in the milk in a 
milk saucepan for three minutes ; take it off the fire 
and let it cool. Beat yolks and whites of eggs sepa- 
rately ; work in the yolks first, and then the whites, 
which must have been beaten to a snow. 

Give the mould, or souffle case, a thin coating of 
butter ; pour in the chocolate mixture, and bake for 
about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. The 
souffle ought to rise above the edge of the case. 

Macaroons, or ratafias, may be substituted for 
chocolate. Coffee may be used ; or a flavouring of 
vanille, or orange-flower water. If only flavourings, 
then a little potato flour will be required. 

Ginger Souffle 

\ lb. potato flour ; 
\ lb. butter ; 
3 ozs. powdered sugar; 
\ lb. preserved ginger ; 
The peel of one lemon. 

Let the mixture first warm over the stove, stirring 
till quite smooth, and adding one pint of milk. 

Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs, mix 
in the yolks one by one ; the whites beat all together 
to a stiff froth, fill the souffle case. Bake for about 
twenty minutes, and serve before it falls. 

Steamed Souffle. 

I oz. butter, i oz. fine potato flour, 3 yolks, 4 
whites of egg, i gill of milk, i dessert-spoonful of castor 
sugar. 



368 SOUFFLES. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, taking care it does 
not burn or discolour ; add the flour, and mix well 
over the fire ; add the milk and sugar. 

Take it off the fire and stir in the three yolks sepa- 
rately, and then the four whites beaten to a very stiff 
froth. 

Have ready a buttered tin mould with a piece of 
buttered paper tied round it Pour in the mixture, 
cover with a buttered paper, and steam for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Turn out of the mould, and serve with a sauce 
made with marmalade and sherry. 

Souffle k la Paysanne. 

Make a pur^e of apples, and another of chestnuts, 
stir a little cream into the chestnut puree, place the 
apples at the bottom of a shallow dish, then the chest- 
nuts, cover with meringue and bake in the oven till 
the meringue is a fawn colour. 

Lemon Sponge. 

8 yolks of eg^s, well beaten ; 

6 lemons* juice ; 

4 lemons' rinds ; 

^ lb. powdered sugar ; 

^ oz. isinglass dissolved in a teacup of water. 

Mix well and warm in a stewpan till it thickens ; 
pour into custard glasses, and let it cool. 

The whites must be beaten separately, and treated 
as the yolks, omitting the isinglass. There will be one 



FRIAR'S OMELETTE. 369 

set of custard-glasses with yellow sponge, and another 
set with white sponge. 



Friar's Omelette. 

Make a marmalade, or pur^e, with apples or 
rhubarb ; stir in powdered biscuit, or rusk, or bread- 
crumbs which have been sprinkled with butter and 
dried. Fill a shallow dish, bake in the oven, turn out 
and serve on a napkin, with biscuit crumbs sprinkled 
over. 

Two eggs stirred in are an improvement. 

If fruit is scarce, an excellent dish can be made 
by using an equal quantity of fruit and tapioca made 
with water. The tapioca must be stewed in water 
till it is a jelly, and then mixed with the fruit. 



_ ■ 9 

Raspberry and Rusk Tart 

(American Recipe.) 

Line a china dish with sponge rusks, fill till three- 
parts full with raspberries, and powdered sugar to taste. 
Fill up the dish with cornflower custard ; bake for a 
short time, and sprinkle the top with powdered sponge 
rusks before sending up. This may be eaten hot or 
cold. 

Cranberries may be substituted for raspberries. 
They must be stewed till tender, and passed through 
a coarse sieve, to remove the skin, before being placed 
on the sponge rusks. 

B B 



370 APPLE MERINGUE, 

Apple or Stone Fruit Mering^ue. 

Make a marmalade with juicy apples, or with 
apricots, or with peaches, or plums, and half fill either 
a deep tart dish, or a metal souffle case. 

Prepare a custard made with yolks of egg, and a 
meringue with the whites. Meringue is white of egg 
and sugar beaten till it is so stiff a froth that it can 
be cut with a knife. 

Cover the fruit marmalade with a layer of custard, 
and the custard with a layer of meringue. Put in 
the oven and let the meringue set : it must assume a 
pale fawn colour. In serving, strike the spoon to the 
bottom, so that there is a proper help of fruit and 
custard. 

Rod Gro (a Danish dish). 

Put one quart of any red fruit juice (saft) into a 
stewpan with 2 quarts of water. 

Add 1 2 oz. of sago, and some sugar ; the quantity 
must depend upon the acidity of the fruit. 

Stir this slowly with a wooden spoon over the 
fire until the sago becomes transparent. 

Do not allow it to become at all thick or clogged. 
Rinse out a mould in cold water, and pour in the 
above, and let it stand to get cold. Serve cold, with 
either vanille sauce or cream. 

Kiselle. 

Mix 3 tablespoonsful of potato or rice flour witli 
a pint or more of fruit syrup, raspberry, currant, or 



CROOTES AUX fruits. 371 

cherry or raspberry vinegar. Boil, and stir it over 
a slow fire till it thickens like a jelly ; pour into a 
mould, and let it stand till cold. 

Croiites aux Abricots, aux Ananas, &c, 

{Bread and Apricots y Pineapple, &'c.) 

With a round cutter punch out pieces of bread 
the size of a pattypan, and two inches deep ; and 
with a smaller cutter scoop out the centre of the 
bread so as to make a place for the fruit. 

Soak the bread in milk and water, but do not let 
it absorb enough to break it up. Give each crust a 
coating of ^gg, and fry a gold colour. Prepare a 
compote of pineapple, or apricots, or greengages, 
and put on each crust a piece of pineapple, an 
apricot, or greengage. Arrange neatly on the dish, 
and pour the syrup, which must be thick, round the 
crusts. 

Croiites aux Praises h, la Belle-rive. 

Prepare some small round buns which can be split 
into two parts, buttered, and warmed in the oven. 

Take strawberries, either hautbois or 'quatre 
saisons,' strew powdered sugar on them, bruise slightly, 
and let them stand for some time, mix the fruit and 
sugar, cover the hot buns with this, let them get cold 
before serving in a glass dish. 

Beignets or Fruit Fritters. 

The fruit may be apples, cut in quarters or eighths, 
peaches, apricots, oranges, or fragments of pineapple . 

B B 2 



f 



372 APRICOTS. 

Prepare fr\*ing batter by mixing \ lb. of flour, 
2 OZ& melted butter, a tablespoonful of brandy, and 
enough water to make a creamy paste, and a pinch 
of salt Let this stand while you beat the white of 
two eggs to a solid mass. Work this into the mixture, 
coat each piece of fruit with this batter, fry a golden 
colour, drain on a sieve, dress on a napkin, and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

The pieces of fruit must not be too thick ; and if 
the fruit is not quite ripe, or if it is hard, it should be 
parboiled in thin s>Tup before being coated i^'ith the 
batter. 

Apricots k la Conde. 

Wash the apricots ; split and take out the stone ; 
break that and extract the kernel. Let the half 
apricots blanch in water for an hour ; drain and stew 
in syrup. 

Prepare rice and milk as if for a mould ; cut into 
pieces of the shape of a tartlet tin, and about \ inch 
thick. 

If the dish is to be cold, place half an apricot 
with its kernel on each rice cushion, and dress neatly 
on a dish with the syrup round. 

If hot, fry the rice a golden colour, and let the 
apricots be placed hot on each rice cushion. If there 
are not enough kernels, use blanched almonds, cut 
the same shape as the kernels. Reduce the syrup by 
boiling if it is watery. 

Compote of Pears. 

Take pears of the same size, and of the kinds fit 



COMPOTE OF PEARS. 373 

for Stewing, peel them very smoothly, so that the 
surface may be even ; if large, cut in halves, or even 
in quarters ; if small, let them remain whole. 

Place them in a stewpan, with a little lemon peel, 
syrup enough to cover them, and a squeeze of lemon 
juice, which will give the colour desired. Do not put 
cochineal or colouring matter in. Simmer the pears 
slowly till they are tender, take them out with care, 
and .range them in a glass dish. Let the syrup simmer 
till it is nearly, not quite, as thick as jelly ; pour into a 
basin till nearly cool, and then pour over the pears. 
Send up cream, either whipped cream or plain cream, 
or Devonshire cream on a separate dish ; but take 
care that it is handed round with, not after, the pears. 
The practice of placing cream on the pears is not to 
be commended, as some palates object to cream, and 
the pears which will keep in syrup will not keep with 
cream adhering to them. 

If the pears are to be white, omit the lemon peel 
and lemon juice. Never allow the syrup to be watery 
when it is sent up round Compote of Pears. 




Peaches, apples, and pears prepared as directed in 
this recipe may be dished up with a border of cold 



374 APPLE CHARLOTTE, 

rice cream. When the apples or pears are white, they 
may be ornamented with angelica. The angelica is 
made flexible in tepid water, and can then be cut in 
slices, by which rings are produced, or split up, cut 
into narrow strips or leaves, and a pattern made on 
the rice. A tuft of angelica leaves can be placed in 
the centre of each apple or pear. Dried cherries — that 
is, glac^ cherries — may also be used. Taste and in- 
genuity will produce very pretty combinations with 
angelica and cherries. 

Apple Charlotte. 

This can be made with fresh fruit or with the 
excellent dried apples now sent over from the United 
States. 

Fresh apples must be peeled, cored, and quartered, 
and converted into pulp. It is impossible to give 
rules for the quantity of water and of sugar required. 
The best apples are those which contain their own 
sugar and which only require a spoonful or two of 
v^ater to assist in being converted into marmalade. 
Apples, sugar, and a little butter are to be sim- 
mered together. If the apples are too dry, cider or 
the juice of a lemon must be used, and rather more 
sugar. 

A plain mould is to be slightly buttered, and then 
lined with strips of bread which have been fried in 
butter. The base of the mould must have a suitable 
piece of bread its own shape. Make these strips of 
bread adhere firmly to the sides of the mould, and 
then fill v/ith the apple marmalade. Bake in the 



APPLE MARMALADE, 375 

oven for three-quarters of an hour, placing a cover, or 
a plate, and a weight on the mould to retain the 
marmalade in its place. Apple Charlottes require 
care in turning out, as they are liable to tumble 
abroad. Cream and sifted sugar are to be handed 
round with an Apple Charlotte. 

Apple Marmalade. 

If American dried apples are to be used, they 
must be steeped in water the day before, and allowed 
to swell to their state before desiccation ; they will 
require a good deal of sugar, butter, and lemon, and 
the best mode of serving them is to add a little gela- 
tine dissolved in water to the marmalade after it has 
been simmered, and to pour it into a plain mould. 
Cream is to be handed round, or Swiss milk when 
nothing else can be procured. 

Miroton of Apples. 

The marmalade may be less solid for this dish, but 
it must be made as directed in the previous recipe. 

Have a shallow white china dish which stands the 
oven ; fill with the marmalade ; decorate with rows 
of glac^ cherries, and place in the oven for a quarter 
of an hour. Serve in the same dish, placed on another 
dish. 

Buttered Apples. 

Take large sound apples ; pare and extract the 
core with the implement made for that purpose. 



376 APPLE PUDDING, 

Place them in a deep djf h ; fill the hollow of each 
apple with butter and sugar ; put a little butter in 
the dish, and put the dish in a stewpan with a cover 
in the oven, which must be very cool. Baste the 
apples with butter, and do not let a skin form round 
them. Each apple must preserve its form, yet be 
soft all through, and the outside must be lubricated, 
as it were, by the basting with butter. 



The Children's Pudding. 

Line a mould with slices of bread and butter 
evenly cut and pressed together. Pour into it hot 
from the saucepan stewed fruit — apples, gooseberries, 
&c. — sweetened and flavoured. Cover with a slice of 
bread and butter ; press down with a plate and weight 
on the top ; leave to cool for twenty-four hours ; turn 
out, and serve with a custard. 



Apple Pudding. 

Eight ounces of flour, two of beef suet chopped 
very fine, a pinch of salt, and water to make a paste. 
It must be rolled and mixed till a perfectly smooth 
paste is made. 

Pare and quarter cooking apples (the * Lord Sefton ' 
is an admirable apple) ; sweeten to taste ; flavour 
with either lemon -peel or cloves, ascertaining which 
is preferred. If there is any doubt, omit the cloves, 
as those who dislike them will not touch a dish in 
which a clove is put. 

Line the basin with paste ; fill with the apples ; 



APPLE PUDDING, yjl 

cover with paste ; close the edges ; tie over a floured 
cloth, and boil for four hours. Turn out of the basin, 
and serve hot. Cream and sugar are to be handed 
round. 

If the water gets in during boiling, your pudding 
is spoiled. 

Apple Pudding No. 2. 

This is best made with brown breadcrumbs. 

Put some butter into a stewpan, and let it become 
of a bright brown colour, and then fry the crumbs of 
a bright brown colour. 

Remove the greater part of the crumbs, leaving a 
layer of them in the stewpan, about as thick as a 
finger, and strew some sugar over it. 

Having prepared some apple sauce by boiling 
apples with sugar and cinnamon, and then mashing 
them up, put a layer of this on the crumbs. Then 
again a layer of fried crumbs, and sugar strewn on the 
top, and another layer of apple sauce. 

Continue these alternate layers till all is finished, 
leaving a layer of crumbs on the top. On this put a 
few very small bits of butter, and strew sugar. 

The best plan of finishing it off is to put a lid on 
the stewpan, with some charcoal on the top ; and, by 
keeping it on the fire, bake it of a bright brown colour. 
But it can be put into the oven and baked there. 

Turn it out, and serve hot. 



378 BAKED APPLE PUDDING, 



Baked Apple Pudding. 

Ingredients : — I lb. of flour, i heaped-up tea- 
spoonful of Yeatitian*s yeast powder, \ lb. of good 
dripping, lard, or butter, i lb. of moist sugar, i^ lbs. of 
apples, some lemon-peel, and \ lb. of currants. Mix 
the yeast powder well into the dry flour, rub the 
dripping in the flour until it is thoroughly well mixed, 
two-thirds of a breakfast-cup of water to make into a 
dough ; knead it and roll out. Have ready a basin 
well buttered, and as much sugar laid on as the butter 
will hold ; line this basin with the paste, put in a 
handful of apples chopped fine, a few currants, some 
lemon-peel, a little cinnamon, nutmeg, some sugar, a 
teaspoonful of water, and a layer of dough rolled out 
thin ; then some more apples, and other ingredients. 
Continue the same alternately until the basin is full : 
then fold the dough over the top so as to completely 
cover it. Bake in a slow oven for one hour and a 
half. Turn it out on a flat dish, when it should look- 
brown and glazed. This is a very economical pud- 
ding, and very nice for winter use. 

Rice Croquettes. 

Half a cup of rice ; 

1 pint of milk ; 

2 tablespoonsful of sugar ; 

3 eggs ; 

A little grated lemon-peel ; 



k 



RICE CAKES/ 379 

I tablespoonful of melted butter ; 
I saltspoonful of salt. 

Soak the rice for three hours in warm water 
enough to cover it Drain almost dry and pour in 
the milk. Simmer in a milk saucepan until the rice 
is very tender. Add the sugar, butter, and salt, and 
simmer ten minutes. Whisk the eggs to a froth, and 
add cautiously, taking the saucepan from the fire 
while you whip them into the mixture. Return to 
the range or stove, and stir while they thicken, not 
allowing them to boil. Remove the saucepan, and 
add the grated lemon-peel ; then turn out upon a 
well-buttered dish to cool. When cold and stiff, flour 
your hands, and roll into oval or pear-shaped balls ; 
dip in beaten ^gg, then in fine rusk-crumbs, and fry 
in lard, dress in a mound and serve with a garnish of 
angelica. 

Rice Cakes. 

Wash \ lb. of Carolina rice, taking care to pick 
out any grains which have not been skinned. Let it 
swell in milk on a slow fire, adding the zest (or outside 
thin rind) of a lemon, 2 ozs. of fresh butter, and a 
little white sugar. As the rice swells add boiling 
milk till the mass is thick and smooth. The rice 
must be swollen, but not broken. Take off the fire, 
and stir in the yolks of four eggs. Then beat the 
whites of two eggs, and stir them in. Have ready a 
plain mould ; butter the inside and coat with fine 
breadcrumbs ; pour in your rice mixture, and bake 
for an hour. Serve on a napkin, with sauce in sauce 
tureen — either German sauce or fruit syrup sauce. 



38o GATEAU of rice. 

The rice mixture may be made into croquettes of 
any shape dipped in breadcrumbs and egg, and fried. 

A variety can be obtained by flavouring the rice 
with vanille ; by inserting a glac^ cherry or a little 
bit of orange marmalade in each croquette. 

And rice cakes and fritters may be made by the 
preceding process, omitting the eggs. 



G&teau of Rice k la Bourg^eoise. 

Swell in milk J lb. of rice, with a little lemon-peel 
to flavour, or some orange-flower water. When cold, 
mix in six macaroons or a dozen ratafias broken up, 
the yolks of two and the whole of two more oggs. 
The other two whites to be whipped to a froth and 
stirred in the last thing. 

Take a plain mould, and coat the inside with 
butter and a good layer of breadcrumbs ; then pour 
in the rice mixture. Bake for thirty minutes ; dish 
up on a napkin, and serve a sauce made from either 
fresh fruit or from fruit jelly or syrup. 

Rice Pudding with Apples. 

(German Recipe.) 

Take 8 ozs. of Carolina rice ; steep it in boiling 
water for a quarter of an hour ; pour off* the water, 
then boil in 3 pints of milk, and set it to cool. 
Meanwhile peel six good cooking apples ; cut them 
into little pieces, and steam them over a slow fire in 
half a glass of water, 2 ozs. of butter, with sugar and 
a little cinnamon if liked, taking care that they do 



GENOESE PASTRY, 381 

not fall to pieces. While the apples are cooling mix 
together 6 ozs. of butter, 6 yolks of eggs, 6 ozs. of 
sugar, and a pinch of salt, and put into this the rice 
now cool. Beat this up together ; add the rind of 
half a lemon, and lastly add the whites of the six 
eggs beaten. Pour part of this into a silver souffle 
case or a pudding dish previously buttered, then a 
layer of the apples now cold, then another layer of 
the rice, &c., and so on till the dish is full. Cover 
with the rest of the rice, and bake for an hour in a 
moderately hot oven. 

Genoese Pastry. 

Take equal weights, say ^ a lb., of flour, butter, 
and white sugar, a pinch of salt, four eggs, and a 
liqueur glass of brandy. The butter is stirred in 
after the other ingredients have been mixed in a 
basin ; it must be allowed to melt near the fire before 
using. When a thoroughly smooth paste has been 
made, it can be baked in a tin and used when cold 
for pastry sandwiches — that is, cut into the shapes 
best liked, and jam put between two layers of pastry. 
Or, if intended to be eaten hot, it should be baked 
in dariole moulds, and a fruit syrup sauce handed 
round. 

If a large shape is preferred, when cold the centre 
can be scooped out, and the opening filled up with a 
mac^doine of fruits. In this case, the shape is gene- 
rally cut in slices, and then fastened together again 
with apricot marmalade. The outside is coated with 
marmalade, and decorated with small leaves or wafers 



382 DAMPFNUDELN. 

cut from the part taken out. Whipped cream may 
be used to fill up the shape instead of fruits, but the 
treatment with apricot marmalade must be the same. 

Dampfnudeln. 

1 lb. of flour ; 

2 small tablespoonsful of yeast ; 
\ lb. of butter ; 

5 eggs ; 

2 tablespoonsful of pounded sugar ; 

A pinch of salt ; 

Milk. 

Put the flour in a basin ; make a hole in the 
centre, into which put the yeast, and a \ pint of warm 
milk. Make this into a paste, and let the * sponge ' 
rise in a warm temperature. When sufficiently risen 
stir in the eggs one at a time, the butter, sugar, and 
salt, with more warm milk. Knead the whole well 
together with the hands, beating the dough until it is 
perfectly smooth, and it drops from the fingers. Then 
cover the basin with a cloth, and put it in a warm 
place ; and when the dough is nicely risen knead it 
into small balls ; butter the bottom of a deep sauU- 
pan. Strew over pounded sugar, and lay the dampf- 
nudeln in the pan ; do not let them touch each other. 
Pour over sufficient milk to cover them, put the smU- 
pan by the fire, and let them swell to twice their size. 

Place the balls in the oven for a short time to ac- 
quire a nice brown colour ; send up on a napkin.. Serve 
wine sauce, or syrup sauce, or chocolate sauce in a 
sauce tureen. 



MEHLSPEISE. 383 

Time. 

30 to 45 minutes for the sponge to rise ; 
10 to 15 minutes for the balls to rise ; 
10 minutes to bake in a quick oven. 

The above quantity will make ten or twelve balls. 

A Mehlspeise. 

(German Recipe.) 

Stir \ lb. of the finest flour into ^ a pint of cold 
milk (or more if necessary), till the substance becomes 
like a cream, and perfectly smooth. 

Then add the yolks of four eggs ; 4 ozs. of butter 
well washed ; 4 ozs. of sugar ; and stir all well into 
a cream over the fire. 

Take it off the fire, and when cold add six yolks 
of eggs. Stir again well (it must be quite smooth), 
then beat the whites of eight eggs into a snow, and 
add this likewise. 

Butter a round flattish mould ; put in a layer of 
this mixture. Peel two lemons, cut them into slices ; 
take out all the pips. Put a layer of the lemon on the 
cream not too closely, and strew powdered sugar thickly 
over them. Then again a layer of cream, and again 
slices of lemon and sugar till the dish, which should 
be about three inches high, is full. 

Bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Turn out 
and serve cold. Instead of lemon, apricots or pre- 
served strawberries or any other fruit can be used. 



384 LECHE CREMA, 



Leche Crema. 

(This recipe comes from the nuns of the Santa Clara convent, at 
PalmOS, in the Island of Grand Canary.) 

Beat up three eggs, leaving out two of the whites, 
add them gradually to i^ pints of good milk. Mix 
with this very carefully four tablespoon sful of fine 
wheaten flour ; 2 ozs. of finely powdered loaf sugar; 
and some grated lemon-peel. Boil these ingredients 
over a slow fire, stirring constantly till the flour is 
dissolved. Prepare a shallow dish with some ratafias 
laid over the bottom. When the cream is ready, pour 
it through a sieve over the cakes. 

Turn it out when cold, strew some finely pow- 
dered cinnamon pretty thickly over it, and serve. 

Beignets k la Bonne Femme, 

Put in a milk saucepan i oz. of butter ; 2 ozs. of 
powdered sugar ; the zest of a lemon ; and a glass of 
water. As it boils dredge in enough potato flour to 
produce a thick paste. Stir it till it sticks to the side 
of the saucepan. Turn it out into a basin and let it 
cool, then stir in, one by one, six yolks of egg. Spread 
this paste on a dish so that it is about an inch thick. 
Have ready a frying-pan with boiling lard ; take paste 
about the size of a walnut, by dipping in the handle 
of a spoon, and drop it in the pan. Keep shaking the 
beignets till they have swelled and turned golden. 
Lay them on a wire frame to drain quite dry. Dish 
up on a napkin, and dust sugar over them. 



PANCAKES. 38s 

Pancakes. 

Put in a basin two teaspoonsful of fine flour, and 
mix in a little salt. 

Mix in the yolks of four, the whites of two eggs, 
well beaten ; and add a few drops of orange-flower 
water, if liked. 

Have ready a small omelette pan with a coating of 
butter. Take care to keep the quantity of paste 
you put in the pan very small. Let it spread itself 
over the pan, and after a minute or two turn on the 
other side ; roll it up and put on a dish in front of the 
fire ; then make another, and so on till all the material 
is used up. 

The pancakes must be placed on a napkin, three 
in a row, andi:hree across them ; a sprinkling of sugar 
on the top. 

Batter for pancakes should be made a couple of 
hours before using. Lard or clarified fat burns less 
easily than butter ; only a small piece should be put 
into the frying-pan at once, fresh being added for 
each pancake. About half a teacupful of batter is 
sufficient for one. 

Tipsy Cake. 

Mix a tumbler of sherry, and a wine-glass of 
brandy. 

Line a glass dish with sponge cakes, and saturate 
them with the above mixture. Then cover with a layer 
of macaroons and saturate them. Cover with apricot 
jam ; then a layer of custard ; then strawberry jam. 
Finally place whipped cream on the top. A souffld dish 

C C 



I 



386 NEAPOLITAN CAKE, 

may be used instead of a glass dish. In helping, use 
a long-handled spoon and go to the bottom, so that 
some of each ingredient is given to each guest 



Neapolitan Cake. 

I lb. flour ; 

10 ozs. sweet almonds and 4 ozs. bitter almonds; 

The peel of two small lemons ; 

\ lb. pounded sugar ; 

1 lb. good butter ; 
The yolks of four eggs. 

Blanch and pound the sweet and bitter almonds 
with a spoonful of orange-flower water into a smooth 
paste ; mix them with the flour and butter broken 
into pieces. Rub the sugar on to the peel of the 
lemons. Pound it very fine ; and add it to the flour 
and the almonds, mixing the whole together with the 
yolks of four well-beaten eggs. Roll the paste about 
a quarter of an inch thick. Cut it with a fluted cutter, 
and place each piece on a tin lightly dredged with flour. 
Bake in a slow oven for | of an hour. When firm 
and a nice bright colour take them out, and when 
cool spread on one side of each slice a layer of jam ; 
and pile them evenly on each other to form one entire 
cake. Ornament the top with pistachio nuts cut into 
small pieces. 

Polish Baba. 

3 lbs. flour (Hungarian) ; 

2 ozs. yeast ; 



POLISH BABA, " 387 

1 oz. salt ; 
\ lb. sugar ; 

7 ozs. sultanas ; 

A pinch of saffron boiled in water ; 

Twenty-two eggs ; 

2 lbs. butter ; 

A wine-glass of sherry ; 
A wine-glass of cream. 

Divide the flour into four parts; with one part 
make a hollow mound and work in the yeast which 




POLISH BABA. 



has been mixed with a small cup of tepid water. The 

usual care in mixing bread must be given in mixing 

the yeast and flour. With the other three parts of 

the flour make a hollow mound and work in the sugar 

and salt, the cream, the eggs, and the- butter. When 

the leavened flour has f isen properly, the two lumps 

are to be well mingled and worked together. Finally 

the sherry, the saffron, and the raisins are to be mixed 

in. A small part of the dough should be taken off* to 

line the mould before the raisins are put in. 

The mould must be tall and taper by stages. 

About one and a half hour's baking ought to be 

enough. 

c c 2 



388 MADELEINES. 

A sauce made with apricot syrup and rum is to 
be handed round. 

Madeleines. 

4 ozs. butter ; 

3 ozs. sugar ; 

4 ozs. fine flour ; 

The rind of a lemon cut so fine that it is perceived 
only as a flavour ; 

A few drops of orange-flower water ; 
The yolks of four eggs. 

Mix thoroughly. Beat the four whites to half 
* snow ; * work them in. Fill little dariole moulds 
which have been buttered ; and be sure to wash the 
salt out of the butter first. Bake for thirty to forty- 
five minutes. Send up on a napkin, and serve a syrup 
sauce of either fresh fruit or preserved fruit in a sauce 
tureen. 

Croquettes of Chestnuts. 

Roast fifty sound chestnuts ; take them out of 
their shells, and select the white parts only. Divide 
these into two portions, of which the most broken 
bits are to be pounded in a mortar with one ounce, of 
butter. Pass it through a sieve ; mix in a small cup 
of cream, 2 ozs. of butter, i oz. of powdered sugar, 
and a tiny pinch of salt. Put in a bain-marie sauce- 
pan, and mix in the yolks of four or six eggs. Let 
the mixture set ; then make it into balls. In the 
centre of each ball put a piece of the chestnuts from 
the reserved portion, just dipped in cream. Dip each 
ball in breadcrumbs and egg, and fry a gold colour. 



PUFF PASTE, 389 

>erve on a napkin, with white sugar lightly sifted over 
hem. The pur^e of chestnut may also be steamed 
1 a mould like souffle pudding. 

Profiterolles as a Sweet Dish. 

Warm in a saucepan half a pint of milk, 2 ozs. of 
)Utter, I oz. of sugar, a pinch of salt. Stir in enough 
lour to make a paste, and some orange-flower water ; 
hen work in two eggs, and form the paste into small 
•alls or buns. Bake on a tin, and serve on a napkin 
i^ith chocolate sauce in a tureen. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Butter some small patty pans ; line with puff 
)aste. Fill with the following custard, and bake in 
quick oven : — 

i lb. potato flour ) . 

. . .„ just warmed on 

1 pmt milk Y 

2 ozs. butter, stirred to a cream ) ' 

2 ozs. sugar; 

3 Gggs yolks and whites stirred in separately. 

Have some currants ready, carefully washed, 
nd make a pattern with them on the top of each 
cheese cake.' 

Puff Paste. 

Three cupfuls sifted flour, two cupfuls butter, one 
oik of egg, a little salt, i teaspoonful Yeatman's 
east powder. 

The essentials for making a puff paste are : a cool 
lace to make it in, ice broken up in two shallow cake 



i 



390 S EM MEL PUDDING 

pans, good flour, and butter, firm, with the salt 
and buttermilk worked out. Sift the flour with the 
powder in it on the pastry slab ; form it into a ring 
with the back of your hand ; place in the centre the 
yolk of egg and salt ; add a little ice water, and from 
the inside of the ring gradually take the flour, adding, 
a little at a time as you require it, more ice water — 
about a cupful together — ^until you have a smooth fine 
paste, very tenacious and lithe. Place in the ice box for 
fifteen minutes, then roll it out to the size of a dinner 
plate ; lay on it the butter, and wrap over it the edges 
of dough, carefully covering it ; turn it upside down, 
and roll it out very thin ; then turn the face down— 
the face is the side of the paste next to the rolling 
pin — folding it in three, squarely. Repeat this three 
times morBy placing it in a thin tin on the broken ice, 
and the other tin containing ice 07i it between each 
turn or operation of folding and rolling. By this 
method this difficult puff* paste may be made suc- 
cessfully in the hottest weather. 

Semmel Pudding. 

(German Recipe.) 

Work 4 ozs. of butter into a cream. Add the 
yolks of six eggs, one after the other. Rub the peel of 
half a lemon into 8 ozs. of white sugar ; pound this 
and add it. Add also a little of the juice of the 
lemon, i oz. of pounded almonds, a little pounded 
spice, a spoonful of rum, a few bits of finely sliced 
peel. When all the above has been well stirred 
together, 12 ozs. finely grated white roll (semmel) 



POTATO PUDDINGS, 391 

crumbs or bits of broken biscuit pounded must be 
added, and very gradually a pint of milk. The six 
whites of eggs must now be well beaten, and then 
added to the rest. Put it into a well-buttered mould 
which has been strewn with grated bread, and bake 
for one hour. Turn it out, and serve with a fruit 
sauce {safi). 

Potato Pudding {Sandtorte). 
(German Recipe.) 

Work I lb. of butter into a cream. Rub the peel 
of a lemon on to some white loaf sugar ; pound it, 
and add i lb. to the above. Add gradually the yolks 
of nine eggs. Add, also very gradually, i lb. of home- 
made potato flour. Lastly, beat up well the whites of 
six eggs, and add these. Stir the whole for one hour 
continuously, always the same way. Butter a mould ; 
strew it with breadcrumbs and put in the mixture. 
Bake for one hour, and turn it out. Serve hot. 

Another recipe for * Sandtorte ' adds 3 ozs. of 
almonds, with a few bitter ones among them, the 
juice as well as the rind of a lemon, and 3 or 4 spoons- 
ful of maraschino, to the above. 

Potato Pudding No. 2. 

Boil \ lb. of potatoes ; rub them through a fine 
sieve. Add 6 ozs. of butter clarified, four eggs well 
beaten, the juice and rinds of two lemons, 7 ozs. of 
pounded sugar, and a little brandy. Put paste round 
the edge of a pie-dish. Bake this size of pudding for 
three-quarters of an hour. 



392 CARAMEL PUDDING. 

Caramel Pudding. 

Take 2 ozs. of pounded sugar and put in a plain 
mould, and set on a hot plate until melted, then run 
it all round the mould and fill with the following 
mixture : for a pint mould take seven yolks of tggs, 
half a pint of cream, and sweeten to taste. Steam 
half an hour. Make a sauce of burnt brandy and 
sugar, and pour round. 

Caramel pudding is better cold than hot. 

Lady Raglan Pudding. 

Butter the inside of a plain pudding mould. Or- 
nament the top with citron and candied peel, and line 
it with dried figs cut in half, the skins being inside. 
Fill the mould with a raw custard made with seven 
yolks of eggs and half a pint of good milk or cream. 
Sweeten and flavour to taste. Cover the mould with 
buttered paper, and steam till quite firm. Let it 
stand till cold, and then serve with sauce made of 
two tablespoonsful of apricot jam or marmalade and 
two glasses of sherry. 

Snowdon Pudding. 

\ lb. suet ; 

\ lb. breadcrumbs ; 

2 tablespoonsful of marmalade ; 

I dessert-spoonful of moist sugar. 

A pinch of salt. 

Chop the suet very fine, and mix all the ingre- 
dients well together. Put in a mould, and steam 
four or five hours. 



V 



AMBER PUDDING, 393 

Amber Pudding. 

Peel six apples ; cut out the core, and cut them 
into slices. 

Put them into a stewpan with 3 ozs. of moist 
sugar, 2 ozs. of butter, and the peel and juice of a 
lemon. Stew the apples till they are quite tender. 
Pass them through a sieve into a large basin, and stir 
to the pur^e the yolks of three eggs. Line a pie-dish 
with puff paste. Pour the mixture into the dish, and 
put it into the oven for twenty minutes. Whip the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. When the pudding 
is set, put the white of egg on the top, and sift castor 
sugar over it. Put it back into the oven to set, but 
do not let it take any colour. 

Newark Pudding. 

I cup fine breadcrumbs ; 

1 quart milk ; 

5 eggs ; I 

2 tablespoonsful rice flour ; 

\ lb. glac^ cherries cut in two ; or angelica ; 
A flavouring of essence of vanille ; 
2 tablespoonsful butter melted ; 
\ teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 

Soak the crumbs in milk. Wet the rice flour 
with cold water, and stir in. Next the yolks of eggs 
well beaten ; then the milk, butter, and other ingre- 
dients. Have ready a buttered mould ; ornament the 
base with cherries and angelica cut in shapes. Bake, 
or steam. Serve, if baked, on a napkin with sauce 



394 PIG PUDDING. 

separately, if steamed with sauce around. An hour 
for baking ; two hours for steaming. 

Fig Pudding. 

\ lb. figs pounded in a marble mortar ; 
\ lb. breadcrumbs mixed gradually ; 
6 ozs. beef suet minced small and mixed ; 
4 ozs. pounded loaf sugar. 
A pinch of salt. 

To be all well mixed with two eggs beaten up, 
and a good teacupful of milk. 

All to be well beaten up, put in a mould, and 
boiled for four hours in a pan of water. 

Send up with a rum sauce. 

Eve's Pudding. 

6 ozs. breadcrumbs ; 

6 ozs. beef suet, chopped very fine ; 

6 ozs. chopped apples ; 

6 ozs. currants or sultanas ; 

Four eggs well beaten ; 

Sugar to taste ; and lemon peel. 

Boil in a shape. Serve with wine sauce. 

German Pudding. 

2 OZS. rice boiled in i pint milk ; 

6 OZS. beef suet \ 

6 ozs, sultanas, chopped fine ; 

Three eggs ; 

A little sugar and lemon peel. 



MARMALADE PUDDING. 395 

Bake in a mould ; turn out and serve with sauce, 
as follows : — 

Three eggs well beaten ; 

A wine-glass of Chablis ; 

A squeeze of lemon ; lemon peel. 

Whisk whilst warming. If preferred, the sauce 
can be sent up in a sauce boat. 

Sauce made with fruit syrup may be used instead 
of the egg sauce. 

Marmalade Pudding. 

I teacupful sour milk, or buttermilk ; 

I tablespoonful brown sugar ; 

I tablespoonful marmalade ; 

\ teaspoonful carbonate of soda ; 

The yolks of two eggs beaten up in the milk ; 

6 ozs. of flour ; 

Whisk the whites of eggs and stir in. 

Steam quickly for half an hour, letting it stand a 
little longer at the side of the fire. Serve with mar- 
malade sauce. 

Irish Puddings. 

Take one egg, and its weight in sugar, in flour, 
and in butter. Add a very little lemon juice, and 
grated lemon peel. 

Beat it well and lightly for nearly a quarter of an 
hour ; pour it into small tins and bake for twenty 
minutes. 

This quantity makes three cup puddings. 



Ik 



396 BAKEWELL PUDDING. 

Bakewell Pudding. 

\ lb. biscuit crumbs (finger) ; 
6 ozs. sugar ; 

1 gill cream; 

2 ozs. dried cherries ; 
\ lb. cored pears ; 
6eggs; 

2 dozen almonds. 

Butter a pie dish. Mix biscuit crumbs, sugar, and 
cream together in a basin ; put a layer of it in the 
pie-dish, then a layer of pears cut thin, then a layer of 
breadcrumbs, then dried cherries, crumbs, and almonds; 
beat two eggs between the successive layers, reserving 
one for the top to ornament with dried cherries and 
almonds. A little salt and sugar should be mixed 
with the egg before being whipped. 

Bake twenty minutes. 

Indian Corn Pudding (baked). 

(American Recipe.) 

Take one quart of boiled milk, stir in seven spoons- 
ful of Indian com meal while still boiling hot, mix it 
quite thin ; when it is moderately warm, add molasses, 
a little ginger and salt, four eggs, a lump of butter the 
size of an egg, and bake. 

Indian Com Pudding (boiled). 

(American Recipe.) 

Take one teacupful of molasses, one piece of suet 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 397 

the size of two eggs chopped fine, three spoonsful of 
Indian corn meal ; scald the meal with boiling water, 
or milk, mix it quite thin ; when it is nearly cold, add 
four eggs well beaten. It requires three hours' boiling 
in a strong cloth. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

\ lb. chocolate (Compagnie Coloniale, without 
sugar) ; 

\ lb. stale sponge cake, or rusks in crumbs ; 

\ lb. sugar ; 

I pint new milk ; 

6 eggs ; 

\ lb. butter. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
yolks of eggs, well beaten. Stir in the grated choco- 
late dissolved in the milk, and lastly the whites of 
egg well beaten. 

Bake in a souffle case three-quarters of an hour, 
or steam in a plain mould. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Cut thin slices of stale bread, butter them, and fit 
them into your pudding dish till it is half full. 

Heat the milk and stir in sugar and the eggs, well 
beaten. Pour this mixture over the bread and butter, 
and put a saucer on the slices to keep them in their 
place. It will require at least a quarter of an hour 
for the bread to soak up the milk and eggs. If the 
bread floats, lay a spoon across the top to keep it ii 
its place. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 



398 .TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Currants, or chopped angelica, may be strewn on 
each sh'ce of bread in making this pudding. 

Tapioca or Sago Pudding. 

I teacup tapioca ; 

1 quart milk ; 

2 tablespoonsful butter melted ; 
I tablespoonful sugar ; 

A few drops essence of vanille, if that flavour is 
liked, or of bitter almonds. 

The artificial oil of bitter almonds is safer in 
cookery than the natural oil of the almond, because 
it does not contain the prussic acid which is some- 
times present in the natural oil. 

Soak the tapioca in water for two hours. Drain 
thoroughly ; then put the tapioca into tepid milk and 
soak another two hours. Mix the butter and sugar, 
and stir in. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately, and stir in. 
Butter a dish and fill. Bake in the oven three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Genoese Pudding. 

Take three eggs and an equivalent weight of flour, 
butter, and sugar ; beat the butter and sugar in a 
basin, adding one ^gg at a time with a little of the 
flour, and some essence of vanille or lemon, till all 
is beaten up together. 

Butter and line a thin square tin with paper, pour • 
the batter into it, put this into the oven, and when 
set sufficiently to raise it from the paper, take it out 



PUDDING A LA MOUSSELINE. 399 

Spread plum or any other firm kind of jam on it, roll 
it over and over, and return it to the oven till firm ; 
serve with white sugar over it. 

Pudding k la Mousseline. 

Grate the rind of two lemons, squeeze the juice, 
mix in 2 ozs. of powdered sugar, 2 ozs. of fresh butter, 
and a pinch of salt, and the yolks of four eggs. Put 
in a stewpan and stir briskly ; let the mixture just 
come to the boil. 

Set it to cool in a basin ; when quite cold, stir in 
one more yolk. Whip four whites to a firm froth, 
and mix in carefully, so that the mixture is perfectly 
smooth and uniform. 

Butter a plain mould, fill with the mixture^ steam 
for three-quarters of an hour. Surround with either 
fruit-syrup sauce or * chaudeau ' sauce. 

Sunday Pudding. 

I lb. flour ; 

\ lb. breadcrumbs ; 

I lb. suet ; 

\ lb. sugar ; 

I lb. raisins ; 

I egg. 

These ingredients are to be mixed with milk and 
boiled five hours in a cloth. 

Baked Apple Pudding. 
Ingredients : — i lb. of flour, i heaped-up tea- 



400 POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

spcxjnful of Yeatman's yeast powder, \ lb. of good 
dripping, lard, or butter, i lb. of moist sugar, i^lbs. of 
apples, some lemon-peel, and \ lb. of currants. Mix 
the yeast powder well into the dry flour, rub the 
dripping in the flour until it is thoroughly well mixed, 
two-thirds of a breakfast-cup of water to make into a 
dough ; knead it and roll out. Have ready a basin 
well buttered, and as much sugar laid on as the butter 
will hold ; line this basin with the paste, put in a 
handful of apples chopped fine, a few currants, some 
lemon-peel, a little cinnamon, nutmeg, some sugar, a 
teaspoonful of water, and a layer of dough rolled out 
thin ; then some more apples, and other ingredients. 
Continue the same alternately until the basin is full ; 
then fold the dough over the top so as to completely 
cover it. Bake in a slow oven for one hour and a 
half. Turn it out on a flat dish, when it should look 
brown and glazed. This is a very economical pud- 
ding, and very nice for winter use. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

Half cupful of chopped suet, \ cupful of seeded 
raisins, \ cupful of currants, washed and picked, 
i^ cupfuls of grated bread, i cupful of flour, i tea- 
spoonful of Yeatman's yeast powder, \ cupful of 
brown sugar, i pint of milk. 

Mix all well together, put into a well-buttered 
mould, set in a saucepan, with boiling water to reach 
half up the sides of the mould ; steam it two hours ; 
turn out on its dish carefully, and ser\'e with butter 
and sugar 



GAtEAU DE prunes, 401 



Black Currant Jelly as a Sweet Dish. 

Take one quart of ripe black currants, put them 
into a stewpan on the fire, with half a pint of good 
syrup. Let them boil for five minutes, then pass 
them through a tamis cloth into a basin ; add one 
glass of brandy, and one ounce and a half of isinglass ; 
pour into a mould set in rough ice ready to receive it. 

G&teau de Prunes k la Cr^me. 

Stew the prunes in water for an hour and a half, 
then take out the prunes and remove the stones with 
a skewer. Meanwhile, dissolve some red currant jelly 
in the water in which the prunes have been stewed, add 
sugar, lemon juice, and a little gelatine, and simmer 
together. Fill a border mould with the syrup and 
prunes ; let it cool, turn out on a dish, and fill the 
centre with whipped cream ; or fill a solid mould and 
serve the cream separately. 

The stones may be cracked, the kernels blanched, 
and a few added to the prunes, if the flavour is ap- 
proved. 

Prune Jelly for a Quart Mould. 

Take i^ lbs. of prunes and stew for an hour and 
a half, with the rind of i lemon, and 3 ozs. of sugar. 
Then pass through a sieve and add the juice of i 
lemon, a pot of red currant jelly, and i oz. of gelatine. 
Pour into a mould until cold. 

D D 



402 ORANGE JELLY. 



Apple Jelly. 

I gallon of apples, cut in quarters. 

\ gallon of water. 

Simmer slowly till the mass can be rubbed through 
a sieve. To each quart put i^ lbs. of lump sugar, 
the juice of a lemon and its peel chopped small ; boil 
on a quick fire, pour into shapes, or jars, and ser\^e 
with cream in a cream jug. 



Orange Jelly. 

Squeeze the juice of ten oranges and two lemons, 
taking care first to remove every pip, as, if a pip is 
allowed to remain in the orange, it will give a bitter 
flavour to the juice. 

Make a syrup of 3 lbs. loaf sugar, i quart water, 
and the white of an egg. Whisk in a sugar boiler, 
and let it boil five [[minutes, dashing in some cold 
water. Strain through a napkin into a basin. 

Rub two of the oranges with lumps of sugar, so 
as to obtain the zest, and mix with your juice. Add 
half a pint of boiling sugar-syrup, and strain through 
a flannel bag. When nearly cold add an ounce of 
clarified isinglass — that is, you wash an ounce of isin- 
glass in several waters ; you let it dissolve in i^ pints 
of water and simmer till it is reduced to J a pint; 
strain through a silk sieve. This jelly may be made 
a richer colour by adding a few drops of essence of 
cochineal ; it will not be a clear jelly like calf's feet. 
Choose a mould which is not too ornamented to turn 



ORANGE BASKETS. 403 

out well. If you have ice, it is an advantage to stand 
your mould on the ice. Turn out. Garnish with 
quarters of oranges. 

As oranges and lemons yield uncertain quantities 
■ of juice, it may be necessary to use more. The 
orange must give the dominant flavour ; the lemons 
are added to enhance the flavour without being per- 
ceived when mixed with the oranges. 

Orange Baskets. 

Mark the handle of the basket evenly across the 
stalk end of the fruit with a blunt knife, the handle 
to be half an inch broad. Trace the rim of the basket 
by a line from one end of the handle to the other, 
exactly in the middle of the orange. Then take a 
penknife and cut through the rind on the traced lines ; 
but do not cut into the pulp. Now use the handle 




part of a teaspoon to detach the pulp from the rind, 
and then the spoon to complete the operation. Press 
the pulp through the parts of the orange removed on 
each side of the handle. When the basket is com- 
plete, snip the edges so as to form Vandykes. Run a 
little clarified butter over the inside of each basket to 



JQ4 CALTS FOOT JELLY. 

raake it hoid. fill with orange jelly, and dress on a 
napkin. wMi a thick slice of sponge cake in the 
centre, on which a middle group of baskets rests. 



CalTs Foot Jelly. 

The modem practice is to make wnne jellies with 
preparations of gelatine or isinglass instead of using 
calfs foot stock as the basis. But this does not pro- 
duce the best kind of jelly. Calf's foot stock is made 
by boiling four feet, cleaned of all fat, in a gallon of 
water for six or se\-en hours. The whole is then to 
be carefully strained into an earthenware pan. When 
cold, the fat on the surface is removed and the jelly 
is broken up from the top, leaving the sediment at 
the bottom of the pan, and placed in another pan or 
basin. 

The gallon of water \\'ill produce about two quarts 
of stock, which must be white and clean, but which is 
not transparent The flavouring and clearing are the 
next processes. As the calPs foot stock is not quite 
firm enough to receive the mixture of flavouring 
matter and bear moulding, it is necessary to put in 
from i to J oz. of Nelson's gelatine. For invalids no 
gelatine must be used, and the jelly is to be poured 
into a basin, and when cold sent up in broken pieces 
in glasses. 

The flavouring of wine jelly is to be sherry, 
brandy, sugar, lemon juice, and lemon peel. The 
sherry and brandy must be pale and of excellent 
•quality, the lemons ripe, and the utmost care is 



CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 405 

desirable in removing the pips before squeezing out 
the juice. 

The clearing matters are the whites and the shells 
of eggs, and there must be a clean jelly bag of thick 
flannel and a stand, to which this is fastened. 

A bottle of sherry from which one wine-glass is 
taken, and a wine-glass of brandy added. 

The strained juice of 6 lemons ; 

The zest or rind of 3 lemons ; 

I lb. of lump sugar ; 

Whites and shells of 8 eggs (the shells cleaned 
and crushed) ; 

\ oz. of Nelson's gelatine to be added when the 
mixture begins to boil. 

The ingredients are placed in a large stewpan 
with the stock, and allowed to get hot on the side of 
the stove, then to boil gently and receive the gelatine 
without stirring. At the end of about sixteen minutes 
withdraw the stewpan, and let it stand a few minutes 
before pouring the whole into the jelly bag. A large 
basin with a lip is to stand under the jelly bag, and 
another similar basin is to be at hand. It is some- 
times necessary to pass the jelly six times through 
the bag before it is faultlessly clear. 

It is not to be poured into the mould till nearly 
cold. 

Very small fragments, mere dots, of gold or silver 
leaf may be mixed in, or the top of the mould may 
be decorated with little balls of pistachio nut pounded 
and mixed with jelly, or various kinds of fruit, grapes, 
strawberries, bits of pineapple may be used to orna- 
ment the mould. 



4o6 MINCEMEA 71 

An inexperienced cook or mistress had better 
limit her efforts to making jelly which is clear and 
well-flavoured, which bears moulding and turning out 
without the defect of breaking to pieces, or the worse 
defect of being tough. 

Jellies with Liqueur Flavour. 

Dissolve in cold water some Nelson's gelatine — 2 
ozs. to a quart of water boiled till reduced to a pint 
Sweeten slightly ; filter and let cool partially. Mix 
in a small wine-glass of liqueur, decorate a mould. 
Fill with the mixture, and place on the ice. 

The liqueurs are — 

Noyau Punch 

Maraschino Cura5oa 

Chartreuse Kirsch. 

Mincemeat. 

Mincemeat should be made four or five weeks 
before using, as it greatly improves by keeping. 

2 lbs. apples, pared and chopped ; 

I lb. beef suet, neatly cleaned and chopped small ; 

i lb. raisins | ^^^^^^ ^^^ chopped; 

\ lb. sultana raisins j 

I lb. currants, well washed and dried ; 

\ lb. mixed peel, chopped ; 

Juice and rind of one lemon, chopped ; 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon (if approved) ; 

2 lbs. sugar ; 

2 teaspoonsful salt ; 



s 



MINCE PIES. 407 

, pint brandy ( To be added two days after 
I glass sherry ""^^ °*^'' ingredients have 

\ been mixed. 

Mix thoroughly, and put in ajar ; cover, and keep 
in a cool place. 

Mince pies ought to be made in little tins the 
shape of a manger, not in round tins. The paste 
should be puff paste, under and over, and brandy is 
to be handed round, with a taper to set it alight 
before it is poured over the mince pie. 



Mincemeat No. 2. 

(A Norwich Recipe.) 

free from skin and chopped 



\ lb. beef 
2 lbs. suet 



extremely fine ; 
1;^ lbs. raisins, stoned and chopped ; 
\\ lbs. currants, washed and dried; 
Three Norfolk beefens ; 
i^ ozs. cinnamon ; 
\ oz. mace ; 
I oz. nutmeg ; 
I lb. sugar ; 
A pinch of salt ; 
Juice and peel of one lemon. 
A little brandy and. sherry to be added afterwards. 

Rich Mincemeat No. 3. 

I lb. fillet beef from the undercut of sirloin not 
cooked, chopped extremely fine ; 

2\ lbs. suet, picked, chopped, and sifted ; 



^•x ^'^rj ^. 



^j hit. Tiifsaiw 



A ;>;»>»r 5>r4sx«cr iraf iffleirr mit HmlRrr forwards. 



f lb, currants 

^ It^, s^ujfar, and a {Mndi «F faJr : 
;| lU fftiXfA peel, chopped eoc : 
I H;, t;ffta/krumhs, 

Mfx with nix eggs and a gill of milk. 

iUiiU^r a fnould, taking care to wash all salt out 
ni \hr flutter fxrforc asing; fill the mould with the 
|Mi<lrliii^ mixture ; place paper over and tie in a cloth. 

'Ihr plum pudding is to be put on in boiling 
wiiUw, n\u\ kc?|)t at the boil for five hours. 

Turn out on a napkin, and sprinkle the top with 
whiter Hugar. 

Sf^rve u brandy sauce in a sauce-boat ; or better 
than muicc, plain cream. 

Christmas Puddings for Twenty-six People. 

6 IKh, flour ; 

6 lbs, suet, chopped and sifted ; 



WINE SAUCE. 409 

4 lbs. raisins, stoned and chopped ; 

2 lbs. currants, carefully washed and dried ; 

1 tablespoonful ground ginger ; 
A little nutmeg ; 

A little salt ; 

2 lbs. treacle ; 
\ pint milk ; 

\ pint brandy ; 
Fifteen eggs. 

Thoroughly mixed and amalgamated. 

To be made into two or more puddings,, and 
boiled in cloths for ten hours. Plum puddings should 
be made and boiled several days before they are 
served. 

Wine Sauce for Puddings. 

Six eggs, yolks only ; 
I oz. sugar ; 
\ pint sherry ; 
The zest of a lemon. 

Warm till the sauce is about the consistence of 
cream. 

If brandy is used instead of wine, it must be 
diluted with water, and the juice of a lemon added, 
A little more sugar will be required. 

gWine Sauce No. 2. 

Bring slowly to the boiling point \ pint of wine, 
then add to it the yolks of four eggs, and i cupful of 
sugar ; whip it on the fire until it is in a state of 
high froth, and a little thick ; remove, and use as 
required. 




410 SWEET SAUCES. 

Wine Sauce No. 3. 

I pint water, i cupful sugar, i small teaspoonful 
arrowroot, i teaspoonful each of essence of lemon and 
cinnamon, ^ gill white wine. 

Rum or brandy may be used instead of wine, and 
in that case the cinnamon is to be omitted. 



Fruit and Syrup Sauces. 

When fresh fruit is to be had, the flavour is far 
superior to that of preserved fruits. The fruit is to 
be made to give its juice by simmering in a saucepan. 
Pineapple and apricots must be simmered in a small 
quantity of water. The pulp or juice is passed 
through a tamis, sweetened to taste, and, if liked, 
flavoured by wine or lemon juice. 

When preserved fruit or fruit syrups are used, 
sugar is not added. 

(See also the chapter on ices for fruit mixtures.) 

Chaudeau Sauce. 

Take two whole eggs, six yolks of egg, eight 
ounces loaf sugar, each lump to be rubbed on lemon 
peel ; two pints Chablis, and the juice of half a 
lemon ; beat them over a slow fire till a light, thick 
froth is formed ; take the stewpan off* the fire, just be- 
fore boiling point, and beat a little more. If small 
streaks like oil appear on the surface of the froth, you 
know that the sauce is ready. The flavour is very 
much heightened by adding a dessert-spoonful of rum 
or fine liqueur. 



SWEET SAUCES, 411 

Hard Sauce. 

1 cupful butter ; 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar ; 

Stir till of the consistency of cream ; then mix in 
5 of a cupful of white wine, and the juice of a lemon. 

Beat long and hard till you have a nearly solid 
mass. Smooth with a knife, and stamp as you would 
a pat of butter. Keep on the ice till it is to be served 
with a pudding or tart. 

Brandy may be used instead of white wine. 

Apricot Sauce. 

Take a small pot of apricot marmalade and dis- 
solve it in I of a gill of water, with the juice of a 
lemon ; stir in | of a gill of rum. 

This sauce is always sent up with Baba. 

Greengage marmalade, or any fruit marmalade, 
may be used in place of apricot, and wine or brandy 
may be substituted for rum sauce. 

Whipped Sweet Sauce. 

The yolks of four eggs ; 
2 ozs. pounded sugar ; 
I glass sherry ; 
The juice of one lemon ; 
A grain of salt. 

Use a milk saucepan, whisk the sauce on the fire 
till it IS a creamy froth, and pour over the pudding, 
or send up in a sauce tureen. 



412 * PRESERVES. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

PRESERVES. 

Fruit Jellies. 

Take any quantity of currants ; remove stems, &c, 
pass them through a cane sieve, put them in the 
preserving-pan on the fire, and stir with a wooden 
spoon till they begin to boil ; pass through a flannel 
bag to clarify. Ascertain how many pints of juice 
you have obtained, and add an equal quantity of sugar 
syrup. 

Sugar syrup is made by dissolving sugar in water, 
half a pint of water to i lb. sugar, boiling and 
skimming. 

Boil together the juice and syrup till the surface 
is covered with scum ; remove that and pour into 
pots. Next day cover the jelly with paper steeped in 
brandy, and the pot with parchment-paper. 

Vegetable parchment is a very efficient substitute 
for bladders or animal membrane ; it is sold in sheets 
as well as in covers the size of jars. The mode of 
using is to soak the parchment in water for a minute 
or two, to wipe off any superfluous moisture, and to 
stretch the cover over the jam-pot, and then tie string 



JAMS. 413 

round. The parchment dries and tightens itself over 
the pot. 

Cherries, raspberries, and black currants may be 
treated in the same way, but to each of these fruits a 
mixture of red currants must be added in the pro- 
portion of one to three. 

Jams. 

It is usual to allow | lb. sugar (white preserving) 
to I lb. of fruit. The fruit must be cleaned and 
cleared of stalks and stems, and must have been 
picked when quite ripe and quite dry. Put the fruit 
and sugar in the preserving-pan on the fire, stir 
together. Boil for about forty-five minutes, stirring 
and skimming ; and when scum ceases to rise, put 
the jam in pots. The skimmings are generally used 
to mix at once with fresh fruit puddings. 



Grape Jelly. 

Out-of-door grapes which ripen imperfectly may 
be used for making jelly, or small grapes where there 
is such an abundance that only the finest come to 
table. 

Strip them from their stalks, bruise slightly ; 
simmer on the fire (in a bain-marie stewpan) till 
they are wasted to a third; pass through a hair 
sieve ; put again on the fire, and reduce till of the 
consistency of fruit jelly. If the grapes are sweet 
enough, no sugar is wanted ; if not sweet enough, 
some sugar must be added for the second boiling. 



414 BARBERRY JELLY, 

If the grapes are not required to keep, a good dish 
is obtained by stewing them with sugar for a short 
time. 

Barberry Jelly. 

Strip the barberries from their stalks, put them in 
a bain-marie saucepan, or a milk stewpan, with 
enough water to cover them. After they have boiled 
for about a quarter of an hour, take them off the fire ; 
put them in a basin, and bruise with a wooden spoon ; 
pass through a hair sieve, weigh the juice thus ob- 
tained, and add its weight of sugar. Boil till bubbles 
rise all over the surface ; take off the fire, skim, and 
pour into pots. 

This jelly makes a delicious syrup for pudding 
a la mousseline, gateau of rice, and other puddings 
which are improved by the contrast of fruit to tgg 
flavour. 

Quince Jelly. 

Pare and slice the quinces, and put into a preserv- 
ing-pan with sufficient water to float them. Boil 
until the fruit is reduced to a pulp. Strain off the 
clear juice, and to each pint allow i lb. loaf sugar. 
Boil the juice and sugar together for about three- 
quarters of an hour, removing all the scum as it rises. 
Test the jelly by pouring a little on a plate to see 
when it is firm enough. The residue left on the sieve 
will make a common marmalade for immediate use, 
by boiling every pound of pulp with \ lb. of common 
sugar. 



ORANGE MARMALADE, 415 

Allow three hours to boil the quinces in water, 
and three-quarters of an hour to boil the jelly. 

To Preserve Oranges whole. 

Take Seville oranges of the same size, make a 
slit an inch long in the sides ; set them to boil in a 
good deal of water, and change the water twice, so 
as to diminish the bitterness. The oranges must 
simmer till quite tender, care being taken that they do 
not break. When tender drain carefully on a sieve, 
and let them remain twelve hours, then simmer in 
very weak syrup for one hour. Drain from this syrup, 
and simmer in richer syrup till the oranges are semi- 
transparent. Before the oranges are quite finished a 
little brandy must be stirred into the syrup. 

The rich syrup is made by dissolving 2 lbs. loaf 
sugar in i pint water, and adding 2 ozs. ground ginger. 

The weak syrup, 6 ozs. sugar, and 2 ozs. ground 
ginger to i pint water. When the sugar is dissolved, 
the liquid is to be put in a stewpan, allowed to come 
to the boil, and skimmed. Then pour into a basin 
and use. 

Orange Marmalade. 

To every eight Seville oranges, allow twelve sweet 
oranges. 

Take off the rind of the Seville oranges in two or 
at most four parts, boil till tender in water enough 
to cover the rinds, drain and scrape away the white 
inner part, mix the juice and pulp of the Seville 
and sweet oranges. Be very careful to pick out the 



4i6 PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

pips before mixing. To each pound of this mixture 
put half a pint of water ; boil for two hours, adding a 
little more water as it wastes, and pass through a 
jelly bag. 

Cut the Seville rinds into thin fillets. Weigh them 
and weigh the strained pulp. Allow i^ lbs. sugar to 
each pound. Dissolve the sugar in the strained pulp. 
Add the fillets of rind, and simmer for twenty 
minutes. 

The rind and juice of one lemon may be added 
to every eight Seville oranges. The proper season 
for making marmalade in England is the spring. 

Pineapple Marmalade. 

The pineapple is now become so cheap at certain 
times of the year that it is quite worth while to store 
it up in the form of marmalade. Small pineapples 
are sold at the rate of sixpence apiece : these are 
good enough to make marmalade. 

Pare, slice, remove spots, cut into small pieces, 
weigh; put into an earthenware jar (or a milk sauce- 
pan) in a stewpan of water, and let it simmer till 
clear. Meanwhile prepare a sugar syrup by boiling 
2 lbs. sugar with a gill of water. The proportion of 
sugar to fruit is | lb. sugar to i lb. fruit. 

Mix the syrup and stewed fruit together, and boil 
for half an hour, stirring all the while. 



% 



Apple Cheese. 

Boil three quarts of sound cider till they are re- 



FRUIT SYRUP. 417 

duced to two quarts. Pare, core, and slice up juicy 
pudding apples, and put them in a stewpan with 
enough of the cider to cover them ; as soon as they are 
quite tender take them out with a perforated spoon, 
and put in the cider a second quantity of sliced apple. 
Continue till the cider is all absorbed. Then place 
the whole mixture in an earthenware vessel. Let 
it stand for twelve hours ; put it in a preserving- pan, 
and boil down till it is of a rich brown colour, and of 
the consistency of porridge. 

Green Tomato Preserve. 

Cut the tomatoes into four or six pieces according 
to size, and take out the seeds. To every pound of 
fruit put I lb. loaf sugar, and ^ oz. ginger, cut small. 
Dissolve the sugar in a little water, and let it simmer 
with the ginger for five minutes ; then add the fruit 
and boil till clear. This preserve has the colour and 
flavour of greengage. 

Fruit Syrup. 

4 lbs. red gooseberries, not quite ripe ; 
I lb. cherries ; 
\ lb. raspberries. 

Clean from stems, tips, stones, &c. ; bruise all together ; 
and place in a deep earthenware pan for twenty- four 
hours. Bruise with a wooden spoon, and squeeze with 
the hand ; then let the juice pass through a hair sieve, 
but do not rub the pulp through. Cleanse the sieve, 
and place over it a napkin ; run the juice through this so 

E E 



4i8 BRANDY CHERRIES. 

that it may be transparent ; to every pound of juice add 
I \ lbs. sugar. Let the sugar melt in the juice, then 
put the mixture in a jam pan, and boil ; remove the 
scum as it rises, and when it ceases to rise pour the 
syrup into a basin with a lip ; as soon as it is cool 
enough, bottle ; cork the next day, and keep in a 
cool place. The syrup may be made with red cur- 
rants and raspberries. 

Mixed Cherries in Brandy. 

Take 6 lbs. ripe cherries, remove the stems, extract 
the stones, break them, and return the kernels to the 
bruised cherries. Add i^ lbs. of sugar, and boil down 
to the consistency of syrup ; put in a large jar, and 
when it is cold mix in two quarts of brandy, and 
add some cloves ; tie down the jar so that no air can 
get in. When the Morella cherries are ripe, strain the 
above preparation through a linen cloth, and then 
through filtering-paper. Prick the Morella cherries 
with a needle, and put them into the cherry syrup. 
If the syrup is not enough to cover them, more 
brandy must be added. Tie down so as to exclude 
the air. In about a month the cherries will be fit for 
eating. 

Brandy Cherries. 

Ripe Morella cherries must be used. If the skin 
is not quite clean, dip them in water as you proceed 
to cut off about half the stalk. Prick each cherr>' 
in two or three places with a needle, and throw them 
into a jar, which is to be filled with brandy. Let 



MILK PUNCH, 419 

them remain three days. Pour off the brandy, and 
to each pint add \ lb. sugar. Boil, and pour over 
your cherries. About six weeks later the cherries 
will probably require an additional quantity of the 
brandy and sugar syrup poured over them. The 
jars or bottles must be kept carefully corked and tied 
down, and the cherries are not fit for eating till they 
have been kept two months. 

Milk Punch. 

Steep the peels (pared very thin) of six Seville 
oranges and six lemons in two pints of rum for twenty- 
four hours. Tour sixteen pints of boiling water upon 
6 lbs. of loaf sugar ; when dissolved add the juice and 
pulp of thirty-two Seville oranges and twelve lemons. 
Next day add the peels as steeped, and eleven pints 
more rum and three of brandy, and stir well together. 
Pour into it rather more than two quarts of new milk 
and two quarts of skimmed milk quite boiling, and 
cover down immediately without stirring. Let it stand 
till next day, and then strain through a jelly bag. If 
it does not run bright, a pint more boiling milk must 
be added, and it must be allowed to stand another 
day. 

Punch. 

I lb. loaf sugar ; 

I cup green tea ; 

3 small wine-glasses brandy ; 

3 small wine-glasses rum ; 

I bottle champagne ; 

3 lemons. 

E E 2 



430 ROMAN PUNCH. 

This mixture may be used for jellies, for sauces diluted 
with water, or it may be iced and mixed with soda 
water as a drink. 

Roman Punch. 

(Ponche a la Romaine.) • 

3 cups lemonade ; 
I cup champagne ; 

1 cup rum ; 

2 oranges — ^juice. 

Whip the whites of two eggs with \ lb. powdered 
sugar till a firm froth. Mix with the above, and ice. 

Orange Gin. 

Take the rind of six Seville and six large Tange- 
rine oranges peeled very thin. Put it into a gallon of 
unsweetened gin ; drop twenty drops of essential oil 
of orange on to a lump of sugar, and put it in the 
gin. Let it remain four days, then strain off the gin. 
Make a syrup of three pounds of sugar-candy pow- 
dered, to three pints of spring water, and the juice of 
the twelve oranges. Clear it, and add the syrup to 
the gin. Let it stand four days, then bottle and cork 
it well. 

Crime d'Orange. 

Infuse the rinds of six good oranges, pared very 
thin, in two bottles of the best brandy for a fortnight 
Dissolve 2 lbs. lump sugar in one pint of water, and 
add it to the brandy. Pour in one pint skimmed milk 
quite boiling, and let it stand for twenty-four hours, 
then filter it, and bottle for use. 



CUP. 421 

Chablis, &c. Cup. 

Take the thinly cut peel of one lemon, twelve 
lumps of sugar, two glasses golden sherry, a quart 
bottle of Chablis, and, if the flavour is liked, a sprig of 
borage. Stir well together and pour into the jug, 
which IS to be placed on ice. Immediately before 
serving stir the mixture, and pour in two bottles of 
soda water. The practice of adding liqueur or brandy 
to * cup ' is not to be commended. 

Claret cup is made like Chablis cup, using claret 
instead of Chablis, and cider cup by using cider. 



422 ICES. 



I 



CHAPTER XXIX. 



ICES. 



To make ices there must be a pewter freezing-pot and 
an ice-tub, rough ice and freezing salt. Ice alone 
will not become a freezing medium, for ice is never 
colder than 32° Fahrenheit In order, therefore, to 
produce a freezing medium — ie. a degree of cold that 
will communicate frost to another liquid — it is found 
that common salt, in the proportion of one-half of the 
ice used, stirred up together, will effect the object, 
inasmuch as this mixture will reduce the temperature 
to zero. 

Few persons have the slightest notion of how ices 
have been produced, the prevalent idea being that a 
quantity of cream and juice is put into a pot or mould, 
which is imbedded in freezing mixture until frozen ; 
nothing can be more erroneous. Ice creams, &c., 
require to be whipped up, or churned, during congela- 
tion, with great care. 

The old process was to place the freezing-pots in 
the tub surrounded with ice, to turn the pots in the 
tub, and the cream or syrup in the pot, for nearly an 
hour. 

There are now machines which allow of the ne- 



ICES. 



423 




cessary agitation, both outside and inside the freezing- 
pot, being given with a far less expenditure of time 
and trouble. With these 
machines there are expla- 
nations how each is to be 
used. It is only necessary 
to add, therefore, that when 
the machine is laid by, and 
again a little time before 
it is used, an examination 
of the parts should be made 
to see that they are in work- 
ing order. 

Ices come to table 

a large mould, as in 
ice puddings ; in a heaped-up mass, as for dessert, or 
n small china cups ; or again, in very small moulds, 
each guest taking one. 

G.eat care is required, when ice is prepared in 
these smaller quantities, that the salt mixture should 
not get inside, and give a taste ; and in hot weather, the 
greater liability to melt is a reason against the sending 
up ice in little quantities. 

Ices may also be served in a frame of sponge 
cakes, or wafers. These devices add to the difficulty 
of sending up ice in a good state, and in no way im- 
prove its flavour. Sponge rusks or wafers are always 
handed round with ices, but are not necessarily handed 
round with ice puddings. 



424 ICES, 

Custard for Ice Puddings. 

Take half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, 
and stir in the yolks of eight fresh eggs. Have ready 
a milk saucepan, and warm the mixture, stirring all 
the time. Do not let it boil, or it will form curds 
When the mixture is of the usual consistency of cus- 
tard, take it off* the fire, add ^ lb. of powdered 
sugar, and a flavouring of vanilla, lemon, ratafia, 
noyau, or maraschino. Strain through a sieve, and 
use for ice puddings. 

To this mixture can be added glace cherries, or 
any dried fruits cut into fragments not larger than 
cherries, or bits of preserved ginger, or of pineapple. 

The pudding mixture is poured into the freezing- 
pot, which is imbedded in the mixture of rough ice 
and salt, and the necessary movement of the pot in 
the ice and the pudding in the pot must be carried 
on, either by the movement of the hand, or with the 
help of a machine. The implement for stirring the 
pudding mixture is called a spaddle or a stirrer ; as 
the freezing inside the pot goes on, the mixture must 
be withdrawn from the sides, and moved towards the 
centre, so that no lumps or hard bits are formed. The 
mixture when frozen must be as smooth and homo- 
geneous as if it had been passed through a tamis. 
When the mixture has attained this consistence, and 
is thoroughly frozen, put it in the pudding mould, 
which must first be chilled in rough ice. Close the 
mould, and imbed in ice till wanted. 



ICES. 425 



Fruit Ices. 



These can be mixed either with cream, or with 
syrup, in which case they are called * water ices.* 

The fruit must be reduced to a pulp, strained 
through a sieve, and, if deficient in flavour, lemon juice 
must be added. 

Fleshy fruits must be boiled to a pulp, and passed 
through a tamis. Fruits which easily give up their 
jiiice can be bruised or squeezed, and passed through 
the tamis or sieve without boiling. 

Jam or preserved fruits can be used instead of 
fresh fruit ; the flavour is less good ; rather more lemon 
juice is required. 

Water ices should always be made with fresh 
fruit. Cream ices can be made with either kind. 

Whenever it is found that the mixture does not 
freeze quickly in working the freezer, it is because there 
is too much syrup in it, and therefore a proportionate 
quantity of liquid, according to the description of ice 
you are making, must be added. 

To make syrup, use i lb. loaf sugar to i pint of 
water. Boil it hard for twenty minutes, and then 
clarify with the white of an egg ; when cold, bottle it 
and keep it for use. 

Fruits used for Ices. 

Green Gooseberries ; 
Rhubarb ; 
Strawberries ; 
Raspberries and Currants ; 



426 ICES, 

Cherries ; Currants, red or black ; 

Cranberries ; 

Apricots ; 

Peaches ; 

Chestnuts ; 

Oranges and Lemons ; 

Grapes ; 

Pineapple. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

Dissolve 4 ozs. of the best chocolate in warm 
water. If the chocolate is not already sweetened, add 
sugar, and stir into a pint of cream, or cream and milk. 
Strain through a sieve, and when cold pour into the 
freezing-pot. 

Coffee ice cream is made by using coffee instead 
of chocolate. 

Tea can also be used as the flavouring material. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. 

To \ lb. of preserved pineapple, or a raw pine- 
apple pounded with sugar, add sugar and lemon juice 
to taste, onfe pint of cream, and a little new milk ; 
mix ; freeze. One quart. 

Custard for Ices. 

Stir the yolks of eighteen eggs well, with or with- 
out sugar, then put three pints and a half of cream, or 
milk, and any ingredients, with any flavour that you 
may prefer. Place it on a moderate fire, and stir it 



ICES, 427 

continually with a spoon or whisk, until the mixture 
be combined, and of the consistency of a thick cream, 
taking care not to let it boil ; afterwards pass it 
through a sieve, and when it is cold freeze it. When 
nearly frozen, put into it a plate of meringue paste, 
which is made with the whites of four eggs beaten up 
to a firm froth, and three spoonsful of syrup or pow- 
dered sugar. This meringue mixture must be put 
into all ices, except liquid ices, to make them smooth 
and light. 

Acid Fruits. 

Take the rind off eight or ten lemons, oranges, or 
citrons, &c. Put the rind of two into a basin, squeeze 
the juice of the lemons into the basin with the skins, 
add 24 ozs. of sugar and three glasses of water ; 
clarify the sugar with the water at * point lisse.' * Mix 
all together, and let it infuse for half an hour, well 
covered up ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. 

The proportions here indicated will make two 
quarts of this and every other description of ice. 

Ices from Fruits, 

For each two quarts of ice, squeeze from 30 to 
36 ozs. of fruit of any description, and pass it through 
a sieve with two glasses of water ; afterwards put 
24 ozs. of sugar in syrup, with the juice of two or 

• * Point lisse,' or a thread, is when the S3n-up becomes a thread if 
drawn out with the finger and thumb ; a small quantity being put in a 
cup to be thus tested. 



I 



428 ICES, 

three lemons ; add flavour and colour to such fruits as 
may require them ; then pass the whole through a 
sieve, and freeze it. 

Such fruits as quinces, pears, apples, peaches, apri- 
cots, &c., require to be cooked with light syrup ; of 
these two last add a few of the kernels of the stones 
pounded. 

Tea Cream Ice. 

To 1 8 ozs. pounded sugar, in syrup, ' a la plume,' ^ 
put a pint of strong green tea, and let it boil a 
short time ; then add a pint and a half of cream, two 
pints of good milk, and a little cinnamon water. Mix 
the whole together and freeze it. With the same pro- 
portions you may use coffee, chocolate, &c., instead of 
tea. If you wish it of more consistence, add 24 ozs. 
of sugar. The mixture is not to be stirred, but to be 
kept in motion by gently rolling the vessel in which 
it is simmered. 

Different Sorts of Plain Ice Cream. 

Boil three pints of cream, a pint of milk, 24 ozs. 
pounded sugar, or syrup, ' k la plume,' all together, 
then pass the mixture through a sieve, and add flavour 
to your taste. When nearly frozen, put in a small 
quantity of pralin^ flowers, preserved fruit in pieces, 

* * A la plume * may be known by dipping the skimmer into the 
syrup, shaking it and blowing through the holes ; a large quantity of 
bubbles will form when the syrup is a feather or *^ la plume.* 



ICES* 429 

or almonds, chestnuts, or pistachio nuts, &c. ; cut in 
slices and simmer in syrup, and name the ice accord- 
ingly. 

Ginger Water Ice, 

Take 6 ozs. of preserved ginger, and pound it with 
a little raw ginger ; make two quarts of lemonade ; 
mix them together, and add meringue paste, and 
freeze it ; put less syrup, and do not work it much 
if for drinking. 

Bavaria Ice Cream. 

Adda mixture ofcustard(j^^ Custard FOR ICES), 
put a flavour of coffee, chocolate, or cinnamon, and 
freeze it. 

Chinese Ice. 

Beat up the yolks of thirty eggs well with 24 ozs. 
of powdered sugar ; add 4 ozs. of pistachio nut paste, 
well pounded with half the white of an egg ; put in three 
half- pints of water ; simmer it until it comes to the con- 
sistency of cream, taking care that it does not boil, as 
if so the eggs will turn ; colour it, and put the flavour 
you require ; afterwards pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it. Small pieces of any preserved fruit may 
then be added. 



Pineapple Water Ice. 

Peel and cut a pineapple, put it into a mortar with 
6 ozs. of sugar, and pound it well ; put to it a pint of 



430 ICES» 

water ; after having mixed it well, let it stand, and 
cover it up for an hour. Pass the mixture through a 
sieve, and add the juice of five lemons or oranges, 
with 24 ozs. of syrup * a liss^ ; ' freeze it. 

Coffee Water Ice. 

Roast 8 ozs. of good Mocha coffee, and infuse it in 
half a pint of water for six hours, well covered up ; 
then pass it through a sieve, add 24 ozs. of sugar syrup 
* a liss^,* and freeze it. 

Chocolate Water Ice. 

Mix 24 ozs. of good chocolate in powder, with 
1 2 ozs. of pounded sugar, with three pints of water, 
and make it like chocolate ; stir it well, pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it. This may be varied 
by putting the yolks of eight or ten' eggs with the 
same quantity of water, stirring it well. 

Cinnamon Water Ice. 

Crush i^ozs. cinnamon, put it into i ^ pints of boil- 
ing water, and cover it well. When it is cold, add 
30 ozs. of syrup * k liss^,* and freeze it. Saffron water 
ice and clove water ice may be made in the same way, 
adding slices of candied fruit. 

Pistachio Water Ice. 

Blanch and clean from 18 to 24 ozs. of pistachio, 
pound them well, and put in a pint of water ; pass it 



ICES. 



431 



'through a sieve, and add 30 ozs. of syrup * a Hss^/ and 
flavour and colour to your taste ; then freeze it. 

Almond Water Ice. 

Make a paste of almonds, 24 or 30 ozs., pounded 
well, and adding from time to time a little water to 
prevent the almonds turning into oil. Add flavour 
to taste, some pieces of glac^ fruit, and freeze. 



List of Cream Ices and their accompanying 

Water Ices. 



Plain cream 

Almond „ 

Brown bread cream 

Vanilla 

Custard 

Pistachio 

Green tea 

Noyau 



» 



» 



M 



» 



» 



Apricot water 
Orange „ 
Strawberry „ 
Raspberry „ 
Black currant water 
Peach 
Lemon 
Mille fruits 



»» 



)» 



Ices which should be eaten alone. 

Chocolate cream ice 

Coffee 

Rhubarb 

Green gooseberry cream ice 

Pineapple „ 



i» 



I) 




Parfait au Chocolat. 

Make a chocolate cream, with 
the addition of ten eggs ; let it just 
heat on the fire, then pass througli 
a tamis ; ice this mixture, working 
in a little whipped cream and syrup. 
When a smooth ice custard is ob- 
tained, put it in a plain and rather 
tall mould, known in Paris as a 
mould <i parfait. Keep the mould 
in ice for two hours ; remove the 
mould, and send up on a napkin. 
Any other flavour may be substi- 
tuted for chocolate. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 433 



CHAPTER XXX. 
BREAD AND CAKES, 

Fine flour is not so wholesome as that called 
household, or seconds, and the entire wheat meal 
ground fine enough for it to pass through an i8-mesh 
wire sieve, is best for the * daily bread/ For cakes, 
scones, &c., the kinds of flour called * Hungarian,' or 
* American,' should be used. 

For good brown bread, the husks have been 
ground by themselves, and then replaced with the 
flour already ground ; so that all the parts of the 
grain are made into bread, after each part has re- 
ceived the treatment suitable to produce a flour which 
will mix and bake satisfactorily. Coarsely-ground 
' whole meal * contains all the nourishment of the 
wheat, but its general use is objectionable owing to 
the presence of coarse particles. 

Flour should be perfectly dry before being used. 
If there is any doubt, place it before the fi|-e till it 
feels quite dry. 

To achieve success in making bread and cakes, 
the cook must use judgment and care. Some flour 
requires more water or milk than others, so that 
the quantity may have to be varied to make the 

F F 



434 BREAD, 

dough of a proper consistency. Different bakings 
will vary as to the time and heat required, and should, 
therefore, be examined occasionally. To ascertain 
whether the bread is sufficiently done in the centre of 
the loaf or cake, thrust a clean straw or long thin 
splinter into it ; if done, there will be no dough on 
it when drawn out. Always measure the flour, and 
put the baking powder into it before sifting. Water 
for milk, or milk for water, butter for larS, or lard 
for butter, may always be substituted. The number 
of eggs may be increased or diminished, or they may 
be dispensed with entirely. Where fewer eggs are 
used than directed, a little more yeast powder is re- 
quired. 

When yeast is used, it is essential that it should 
be good and fresh. Stale yeast produces an acetous fer- 
mentation and a disagreeable flavour. A poor thin 
yeast produces imperfect fermentation and a heavy 
unwholesome loaf. Too small a proportion of yeast, or 
insufficient time allowed for the dough to rise, makes 
the bread heavy. 

When yeast is not obtainable, yeast powder is a 
satisfactory substitute, but the proportion indicated 
by the makers of the various yeast powders must not 
be exceeded. 

Cooks who are accustomed to use German yeast 
often do not know how to use brewer's yeast. In 
giving orders it is important to ascertain which the 
cook can deal with, but brewer's yeast makes by far 
the best bread. 




BREAD. 435 



Home-made Bread. 

Mix good brewer's yeast with water and a little 
salt. The water is to be made tepid by allowing a 
quarter of the quantity to be boiling and three- 
quarters cold. Put th6 flour, which is to be whole 
meal properly ground and mixed by the miller, in a 
tub. Make a hole in the flour and pour in the yeast 
mixture, cover the tub with cloths, place it in front 
of the kitchen fire at lo P.M., and let the sponge 
remain there all night. Next morning knead the 
mixture, the hands used for kneading being faultlessly 
clean. There must be no lumps or knots of unmixed 
flour. Let the dough remain covered for three hours, 
then knead again and make into loaves. Heat a 
brick oven with wood faggots, test the heat with a 
bit of dough, sweep out the oven, put in the loaves, 
put up the door, and place wood ashes outside to 
prevent air getting in. After half an hour open the 
door, turn and separate the loaves, close the door as 
before, and let the loaves bake for one hour and a 
half more, that is, two hours altogether. In bread 
thus baked, each loaf has a rich brown crust all over. 

A 2-lb. loaf requires about 

1 lb. 8 ozs. flour ; 
10 ozs. water ; 

2 ozs. salt ; 
\ oz. yeast. 

Making and baking bread are processes which 
require more explanation than it is easy to give 

F F 2 



456 BREAD. 

without the processes being carried on at the same 
time. It is therefore desirable for the cook to take a 
lesson from a practical baker using the same yeast 
and the same kind of oven she is to continue to use. 



Bread. 

3^ lbs. seconds flour ; 
I oz. German yeast ; 
Half a saltspoonful salt. 

Put the flour in ^ large pan. Mix the yeast with a 
gill of tepid water, and stir in a basin till it is a stiff 
paste. Then add i^ pints water, stir smoothly, and 
add the salt. Then mix this with the flour, and work 
lightly together with the hands. 

Bake either as a loaf, or in a tin, or a Sheffield 
baking-pan. {^See illustration on p, 215.) 

Vienna Rolls. 

Have ready in a bowl a tablespoonful of butter or 
lard ; make it soft by warming a little and stirring 
with a spoon. Take i quart unsifted flour, add to 
it 2 heaped-up teaspoonsful Yeatman's yeast powder, 
then mix and sift them thoroughly together, and 
place in the bowl with the butter. Take about 
one pint of milk, mix in \ teaspoonful of salt, and 
then stir it into the flour, &c., with a spoon, 
forming the dough, turn out on a board, and knead 
sufficiently to make smooth. Roll out half an inch 
thick, and cut with a large round cutter. Then 



ROLLS. 437 

fold each one over to form a half round, wetting a 
little between the folds to make them stick together. 
Place them on buttered tins, so as not to touch, wash 
them over on the top with milk to give them a gloss, 
and then bake immediately in a hot oven about twenty 
minutes. 

French Rolls. 

I quart flour ; 

1 teaspoonful salt ; 

2 teaspoonsful Yeatman's yeast powder ; 
I tablespoonful lard ; 

Nearly i pint milk. 

Sift the flour, salt, and powder together thoroughly ; 
rub in the lard cold, add the milk, and mix into a 
rather firmer dough than ordinary. Flour the board, 
turn out the dough, and immediately give it one or 
two quick vigorous kneadings to complete its smooth- 
ness and quality. Divide it into pieces the size 
of an Qggy and each piece in half, which you form 
under the hands into the appearance of short thick 
rolls tapering sharply at each end. Put two of these 
pieces together side by side, pinching the ends 
together a little ; lay them on a buttered baking-tin, 
wash over with milk. Bake in a hot oven fifteen 
minutes. 

Muffiiis. 

I quart flour ; 

\ teaspoonful sugar ; 

I „ salt ; 



438 RICE MUFFINS, 

2 large teaspoonsful Yeatman's yeast powder ; 
\\ pints milk. 

Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder, add the 
milk, and mix into a smooth batter a trifle stiffer 
than for girdle cakes. Have the girdle heated 
equally all over, grease it, and lay on the muffin 
rings, half fill them, and when risen well up to the 
top of the rings, turn over gently with a cake turner. 
They should not be too brown, just a buff colour. 
When they are all cooked, pull each open in half, 
toast delicately, butter them well. Serve on a folded 
napkin, piled high and ver}' hot. 

Rice Muffins. 

Mix the following ingredients : — 

I pint flour ; 

I teacupful boiled rice ; 

I quart milk ; 

I tablespoonful butter ; 

1 teaspoonful salt ; 

2 eggs, beat up. 

Make into thin cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Soda Cake. 

Work 6 ozs. of butter well into i lb. of flour ; add 
\ lb. of sifted sugar, \ pint of boiling milk, the yolks 
of three well-whisked eggs, and, if approved, a little 
grated nutmeg. 

Beat the whole well and lightly together for about 
a quarter of an hour. Add a very small teaspoonful 



BUNS, 439 

of carbonate of soda, well dried. Beat it again for a 
few minutes, then bake it for an hour and a half 
Add raisins and peel according to taste. 



Bath Buns. 



2 



cupful butter ; 



i^ cupsful sugar ; 

2 eggs ; 

i^ teaspoonsful heaped up of Yeatman's yeast 
powder ; 

^ cupful candied lemon-peel, cut in small thin 
slices ; 

i^ pints flour ; 



1 

2 



pint milk. 



Rub the butter and sugar to a smooth, light 
cream ; add the eggs, beat a few minutes longer ; 
then add the flour, with the powder sifted in it, the 
lemon-peel, and milk. Mix into a moderately firm 
batter. Lay well-greased muffin rings on a greased 
baking-tin, and put a large spoonful into each. Sift 
sugar on them, and bake fifteen minutes in a hot 
oven. 

Currant Buns. 

i^ pints flour ; 
i pint milk ; 
■^ teaspoonful salt ; 

\ teaspoonful heaped up of Yeatman's yeast 
powder ; 

i lb. butter ; 

^ lb. moist sugar ; 

^ lb. currants, or sultana raisins. 



i 



440 CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mix well together the flour, salt, and yeast pow- 
der, then melt the butter in the milk (cold), which add 
with the sugar to the flour, &c., and make into a 
dough, after which add the currants or raisins. Bake 
in a buttered tin in a hot oven. 



Brioche Buns. 

I lb. flour ; 

I oz. German yeast. 

Set it to rise with a little warm water. Put \ lb. of 
butter into a stewpan with a teacupful of milk ; let 
it be just warm ; add to this four well-beaten eggs, 
then with a spoon mix it with the flour and yeast into 
a thick batter. Let it stand in a warm place for an 
hour, then add a little pounded sugar, and either 
seeds or currants. Mould it into buns, or bake it in 
a cake ; but be quite sure it has risen after being 
made into buns. Wash the tops with beaten ^^g. 
It should be baked in a quick oven. 



Chocolate Cake. 

\ lb. butter ; 

\ lb. chocolate a la vanille ; 

\ lb. sifted sugar ; 

\ lb. almonds pounded ; 

I teaspoonful sal volatile ; 

7 eggs ; 

3 ozs. flour. 

Beat the butter to a cream, scrape the chocolate, and 
heat in oven. Then beat the chocolate and flour into 
the butter, and stir in the almonds and sal volatile. 



STRASBOURG CAKE. 441 

Beat yolks and whites separately, working in the 
yolks before the whites. 

Bake in a slow oven for about 2^ hours, and keep 
three or four days before cutting. 



Strasbourg Cake. 

I lb. fresh butter ; 
I lb. powdered sugar ; 
I lb. almonds ; 

1 cup milk ; 

2 yolks eggs. 

Make a custard with the milk and eggs, and let it 
cool. Pound the almonds, and gradually work in the 
custard, as else the almonds will turn to oil; then 
mix thoroughly with the butter and sugar ; line a 
buttered mould with finger sponge-cakes, pour in the 
almond mixture, put a buttered paper and a light 
weight on it, and bake for twenty-four hours. 

Plain Cake. 

Rub I lb. good beef dripping, or lard, into 3 lbs. of 
flour. Add i lb. raw sugar, caraway seeds to taste, 
or spice, if preferred. Dissolve 3 teaspoonsful car- 
bonate of soda in i quart sour buttermilk. Mix the 
whole into a light dough. Let it stand a short time 
before the fire to rise, then put it quickly into a tin 
lined with buttered paper, and bake in a slow oven.* 
If a richer cake is desired, add chopped peel, or 
currants and raisins, and three or four eggs. 



442 CAKE, 

Cake without Eggs. 

I lb. currants ; 

I lb. flour ; 

\ lb. brown sugar ; 

6 ozs. butter ; 

3 ozs. candied lemon peel ; 

3 „ orange peel ; 

I breakfast cupful new milk ; 

I teaspoonful mixed ground spices ; 

I „ ginger; 

I teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 

Melt the butter in the milk on the fire, and pour it 
into a basin with the other ingredients. Mix tho- 
roughly with tlie hands. Bake in a tin with buttered 
paper. The tin should be filled only half full. 

Kiigelhiipfe. 

\ lb. butter ; 

5 eggs ; 

A tablespoonful sugar ; 

A teaspoonful salt ; 

Milk ; 

German yeast. 

Beat the butter to a cream, dredge in a heaped table- 
spoonful of flour, and stir in one egg ; beat together. 
Go on with a spoonful of flour and an egg till the five 
eggs are worked in. Take German yeast the size of a 
walnut, and dissolve it in warm milk, mix in the sugar 
and salt, and work it all into the paste. Half fill a tin 
which has been buttered and coated with breadcrumbs. 



GIMBLETTES. 443 

Set it to rise in a warm place for two hours. Bake in 
a moderate oven for half an hour, or till done. 



Gimblettes. 
6 ozs. sugar ; 
6 ozs. flour (Hungarian) ; 
3 eggs ; 
Some zest of lemon. • 

Break and beat up the eggs, add the sugar and lemon 
and work well together, dredge in the flour. The paste 
must be neither too stiff nor too soft ; therefore do not 
work in all the flour till it is clear that all is required. 
Roll out the paste and form it into rings, have a basin 
of boiling water, and drop the rings into it. Take 
them out as they rise on the water ; drain on a nap- 
kin placed on a sieve ; bake them in a slow oven, 
take out, coat with white of egg, and just let them 
dry in the oven. 

Queen's Cakes. 

i^ lbs. flour (Hungarian) ; 

I lb. butter ; 

I lb. sugar ; 

12 eggs; 

\ lb. currants ; 

The zest of 2 lemons. 

Rub the butter to a cream, add the sugar and the 
zest of the lemons. Whisk this mixture for fifteen 
minutes, then work in 3 eggs well beaten, and let the 
paste rest for five minutes, and proceed in the same 
way till all the eggs are worked in. Then mix in the 



444 GISGERBREAD, 

currants, lastly the flour, stirring for several minutes. 
Make into cakes the size of a half-crown. Bake in a 
hot oven, placing some folded paper under them. 

Gingerbread. 

I J lbs. flour ; 

I \ lbs. treacle ; 

\ oz. powdered ginger ; 

\ lb. butter ; 

The peel of i lemon pounded. 

Mix well together, and let it stand in a warm place 
for two or three hours. Divide into three parts, lay 
one piece at a time on the pastry board well floured. 
Roll and rub till it is no thicker than a crown piece ; 
butter your baking-tin, lay each piece on it, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Fruit Gingerbread Cake. 

5 teacupsful flour ; 

I „ treacle ; 

I „ sugar ; 

I „ melted butter ; 

\ lb. raisins ; 

\ lb. curants ; 



1 

2 



lb. peel ; 



\ lb. ginger ; 

I teaspoonful coriander seed ; 

1 tablespoonful caraway seed ; 

2 tablespoonsful vinegar ; 

I teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 

Warm the treacle and butter, then mix with the other 



GINGERBREAD, 445 

ingredients, and bake in a mould in a slow oven for 
an hour and a half. 



Gingerbread Nuts. 

The proportions are : 
\ lb. butter ; 
\ lb. coarse sugar ; 
i^ lbs. treacle ; 
li lbs. flour ; 
\\ ozs. powdered ginger. 

Mix well together into a smooth paste. Cut into 
discs about i^ inches in diameter, and bake on a 
buttered tin. 

Thick Gingerbread. 

I lb. treacle ; 
\ lb. butter ; 
\ lb. raw sugar ; 

Melt over the fire ; let it cool, then add 

1 lb. flour ; 

2 ozs. ground ginger ; 
I oz. caraway seeds ; 
\ lb. citron ; 

A dessert-spoonful carbonate of soda 
4 eggs, well beaten. 

To be baked in a moderately hot oven. 

(The above recipe was given to a friend by Mrs. Joanna Baillie.) 



446 SCONES. 

Scones. 

(Ross-shire.) 

Flour, butter, milk, equal quantities, thoroughly 
mixed, rolled thin, cut into rounds, and baked on a 
girdle for fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Scones. 

(Sir Henry Thompson.) 

2 lbs. whole meal flour ; 

i lb. fine flour ; 

A pinch of salt ; 

2 ozs. butter ; 

Some Yeatman's yeast powder ; 

Milk, or buttermilk ; or milk and water. 

Mix and work together. Make into flat cakes. Bake 
in a quick oven till the surface looks done, and let 
them finish at a lower temperature in front of the 
fire or on the girdle ; to be half an inch thick when 
cooked. 

Scones. 

Cream scones may be made with either white or 
brown flour. They must be baked on a girdle. 

Heat half a pint of good cream, and when it comes 
to the boil dredge in the flour, till you have a thickish 
paste ; stir carefully all the time. Season with a little 
salt Turn the paste out on a floured board ; roll to 
the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; cut with a cir- 
cular cutter. The girdle must be heated meanwhile 
over a clear red fire. Lay the scones on the girdle, 
turn when done on one side, and bake the other. 



SCONES. 447 

Five minutes ought to do each side, as they are to be 
/impy net crisp. Serve in a napkin, so folded as to 
keep in the heat. Enough for four persons. 

Crisp Brown Scones. 

Use brown bread flour for these scones, which are 
best when made with cream. In default of cream use 
milk, and add a little butter to give richness. Season 
with salt. Warm the cream, and as it warms dredge 
in the flour, and stir as if to make porridge. Keep 
stirring till the mixture is a smooth paste. Roll out 
on a floured board, cut into circles as is directed in 
water scones, and bake on the girdle. These scones 
are to be crisp ; the colour a rich brown, but they 
must not be allowed to get dark by too great heat. 

Plain Water Scones. 

Put a small quantity of white flour in a basin, and 
knead it into a paste with boiling water. Work it 
well with the hand so that the paste is perfectly 
smooth. Roll out this paste on a floured board to 
the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and cut with a 
circular cutter (or a tumbler), allowing three scones to 
each guest. Bake on an iron girdle. As soon as one 
side has set, turn, and let the other bake. About five 
minutes is enough to bake these scones, as they are 
to be limp and tender. Fold a napkin, so that the 
heap of scones can be placed inside (like chestnuts), 
and serve at once. 



448 SCONES, 

Water Scones. 

Water scones should be made with white flour. 

Mix in a basin flour and butter, in the proportion 
of a walnut of butter to ^ lb. of flour, work them well 
together. Season with salt ; if the butter is salt, that 
may be seasoning enough. Pour in boiling water 
enough to make a paste. Turn out on the boards 
work well with the hand ; then roll out rather less 
than a quarter of an inch thick, cut into circular cakes. 
Bake on the girdle. 

Barleymeal scones made in the same way are a 
pleasing variety. 

Cocked Hats. 

\ lb flour ; 

\ lb. butter ; 

A pinch salt ; 

I teaspoonful carbonate of soda ; 

Buttermilk, or new milk just warmed. 

Rub the butter, salt, and soda well into the flour, and 
then beat it up with the tepid milk. Roll into paste 
a quarter of an inch thick, cut into three-cornered 
pieces (about a four-inch square, cut in two from 
corner to corner), and bake in a moderately hot oven 
for a quarter of an hour, or till done. 

Girdle Cakes. 

(American Recipe.) 

Beat 2 eggs, yolk and white, into some warm 
milk ; add i pint of Indian com meal, and mix it 
well with a spoon ; there must be enough milk to 



BREAKFAST CAKES, 449 

enable the whole to be poured out of the saucepan on 
to the girdle ; add a spoonful of wheat flour, and lard 
or butter the size of a walnut. The girdle is a flat 
round iron of any size, standing on three legs. It 
must not be made very hot, or it will burn the cakes j 
it must be perfectly clean and greased while warm, so 
that the cakes may be easily turned and done brown 
on both sides. The batter is usually poured from the 
saucepan on to the girdle until it spreads to the size 
of the bottom of a breakfast plate for each cake. 



Indian Meal Breakfast Cakes. 

Pour boiling water into a quart of Indian corn 
meal. Stir it until it is a paste, add two well -beaten 
eggs, and milk enough to make it a thick batter ; add 
a little salt. Butter some square tin pans ; fill them 
two-thirds full, and bake in a quick oven. When 
done, cut in squares, and serve hot. 



c; G 



450 BEEF TEA, 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, 

Beef Tea. 

Take equal weights of the best gravy beef and of cold 
water. 

Cut the meat into pieces about an inch square. 
Let them soak in the cold water for an hour, then 
place in a jar in the oven, which must be moderately 
hot, for half an hour. 

Beef Tea No. 2. 
» 

I lb. of quite fresh (that is, newly killed) beef, the 
part which is called gravy beef ; 
5 drops muriatic acid ; 
A pinch of salt ; 
I pint cold water. 

Cut the beef into small pieces, and let it soak in 
the water, into which the acid and salt have been 
stirred, till all the juice of the beef is extracted. 
Strain the liquid through muslin, and serve in a 
coloured wine glass. It should be made fresh ever)' 
day. 



MEAT TEA. 451 

Liebig's Extractum Carnis 

The proportion is about one ounce of the extrac- 
tum to two quarts of water. 

It must never be boiled, but stirred into boiling 
water. 

For delicate stomachs it is more nourishing when 
mixed with arrowroot, sago, tapioca, or vermicelli. 

These additions are to be cooked in water and 
seasoned with salt and pepper if allowed, and the 
extract must be stirred in when the arrowroot or 
other farina is boiling hot. 

Liebig's extractum must always be used in quanti- 
ties below rather than above the mark, or a coarse, 
bitter flavour is apparent. 

Meat Teas and Drinks. 

i^ lbs. mutton, veal, or beef free from fat, gristle, 
pr bone ; 

1 quart cold water ; 

2 ozs. rice; 
Salt to taste. 

Simmer four hours ; strain ; serve a small quan- 
tity at a time. 

Meat Teas and Drinks No. 2. 

I lb. gravy beef, minced fine ; 

i^ pints cold water. 

Place in an earthen jar in the oven for three hours ; 

strain through muslin. 

G G 2 



452 COLD BEEF TEA. 

Meat Teas and Drinks No. 3. 

I lb. mutton ; 

I lb. veal ; 

Half a chicken, the bones to be broken ; 

1 calf s foot ; 

2 quarts water ; 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Simmer till a jelly. 

I 

Cold Beef Tea. 

One ounce Liebig's extract is to be stirred into 
four pints of boiling water. It is to be allowed to 
grow cold, or even to be chilled with ice. 

A Nourishing Drink. 

3 ozs. brandy ; 
5 ozs. water ; 

3 eggs ; 

are to be stirred together, and a teaspoon ful at a 
time to be given to the patient. 

A Nourishing Drink No. 2. 

Two wine-glasses of sherry or madeira are to be 
stirred into half a pint of boiling milk. The mixture 
is to be strained through a silk sieve, so a& to get 
rid of the curd. 



CHICKEN JELLY, 453 

Veal Broth. 

Take two pounds of perfectly lean veal ; cut off 
any morsel of fat remaining. Take \ lb. of pearl 
barley, and after having cut the meat up very small 
and thin (not chopped it), boil it and the barley toge- 
ther for two or three hours till it becomes a sort of 
pulpy mass. Rub this through a hair sieve, and 
season with a little salt. 

It is light and nourishing, and very easy of diges- 
tion. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Use an old hen, or if the white parts of young 
chickens have been used for entries, the legs can be 
reserved for chicken jelly. 

Boil slowly in a small quantity of water, putting 
on in cold water— one pint of water if a whole chicken 
is used. 

An hour after the saucepan or bain-marie has 
been on the fire, take it off, slip out the bones, crush 
or pound and return them to the broth, and let it 
simmer slowly for an hour and a half ; season with 
salt and a little white pepper, strain through muslin 
after passing through a colander, and if it is to be 
eaten cold pour into a mould or a shallow china dish ; 
send the jelly up on a napkin with a garnish of parsley 
or watercress. This is a very agreeable dish if the 
state of the teeth and gums requires Foft food, andthe 
preparations of broth and soup are not liked. The 
jelly is strong enough to keep any shape, and might 



454 CUTLETS FOR INVALIDS. 

be cut into crotitons if liked. A little' grated tongue 
or ham nnay be sent up with chicken jelly. 

Mutton Cutlets k la Victime. 

Trim one of three cutlets neatly, and allow the two 
others to project a little beyond the trimmed cutlet 
which IS to be placed between the other two ; tie them 
together, and grill the triplet, taking care to turn it 
with the cutlet tongs, or, if a hanging gridiron, in 
the usual way, so that all the gravy is concentrated, 
and that the middle cutlet receives it all. Then re- 
move the outside cutlets, which may be used by the 
stronger digestions, while the delicate and juicy cutlet 
is served to the invalid. 

When a very small quantity of mutton, minced 
very fine, is ordered for a patient, this is the best 
way of preparing the meat before mincing. 

Tapioca and Cream. 

Boil the tapioca in milk till it is quite soft all 
through, flavour with sugar and vanille (if approved); 
let it get cold, and then break it up and work in half 
a pint of whipped cream. 

Sago or rice may be used instead of tapioca. 

Chocolate. 

Begin by purchasing chocolate which is not loaded 
with flour or sugar ; it costs more money to buy, but 
is cheaper than those kinds which are only chocolate 
in part. An ounce of chocolate is to be. dissolved in a 




CHOCOLATE, 455 

teacup and a half of water, and boiled down to a tea- 

« 

cup ; stir in half a teacupful of milk or cream, warm, 
but do not boil, and serve. 

Chocolate No. 2. 

Take a tablet of chocolate for each cup. Break 
the tablet in two pieces, put it into a cup, and pour on 
it enough boiling water or milk to cover the pieces ; 
leave it alone, off the fire, about five minutes, or long 
enough to become thoroughly soaked. Now pour off 
the superfluous liquid and mash the chocolate into a 
soft pulp ; then turn the whole into the saucepan of 
boiling water or milk on the fire, and five or six minutes' 
boiling will be sufficient It need not be stirred much 
while on the fire, as the chocolate, being completely 
dissolved, will not stick to the bottom of the saucepan. 
After the five or six minutes' boiling, it may stand 
eight or ten minutes near the fire, to get mellow. 
Milk or water is used according to taste. 

A silver, porcelain, or earthenware saucepan will 
do, or even a copper one well tinned ; but tin and 
iron saucepans, or any utensils employed for the ordi- 
nar}'^ uses of the kitchen, ought not to be used, as 
they may give the chocolate a bad flavour. The 
stirring may be done with a wooden spoon. Chocolate 
is not a mere infusion, like tea, but rather a fine 
and delicate sort of vegetable broth or soup, at 
once a cheering drink and nourishing food. 



456 CHOCOLATE. 

Chocolate No. 3. 

French Mode. 

2 cups boiling water ; 

I cup scraped chocolate ; 

Use a silver saucepan, stir in the chocolate as the 
water boils, stir till quite smooth. 

Add two cups of milk, reduce by simmering, and 
then serve. 

German Mode. 

\ lb. chocolate ; 
I quart milk ; 

3 yolks of eggs. 

Grate the chocolate, stir in boiling milk and boil 
for ten minutes ; stir in the eggs, pour into little china 
cups, and let them set 

Panada. 

Steep the crumb of some stale bread in hot water 
till it has soaked up all the water, then simmer in a 
little more water and pass through a tamis. 

Make a thin custard with new milk and yolk of 
Q^'g, and mix with the panada, which may be eaten 
hot or cold. 

If eggs are not to be used, stir in a little butter 
after the panada is made and whilst it is hot, but do 
not let the butter go on the fire. 

Rusks may be used instead of bread crumbs, or 
toasted bread. 



BARLEY WATER, 457 

« 

Toast or Bread Jelly. 

Dissolve toast or bread crumbs in boiling water, 
and pass through a tamis. 

If liked, add ia tablespoonful of brandy and the 
yolk of an egg beaten up in hot water. 

Dry Toast. 

Bread used for making toast should be two days 
old. The thickness should never be such as to leave 
a raw bread interval between the toasted sides. 

Sometimes an invalid desires toast as thin as a 
wafer. For ordinary breakfast use, toast should be 
rather less than half an inch thick when toasted ; it 
should not be made before wanted ; each piece must 
be placed in the rack as soon as it is done, and the 
colour must be uniform over the whole piece, a golden 
brown. 

Barley Water. 

I lb. pearl barley ; 

\ lb. sugar ; 

4 lemons. 

Wash the barley thoroughly ; to do so, use at 
least four waters. 

Peel the lemons as thin as possible ; put the peel, 
the sugar, and the barley in four quarts of cold water, 
let the saucepan come to the boil, arid let it 'con- 
tinue at the boil for ten minutes. Take care the heat 
does not go beyond boiling-point, or the barley water 
will' become thick. Squeeze the juice of the four 



458 A RESTORATIVE, 

lemons into a large basin, taking care not tp drop in 
any pips. Strain the barley water through a hair 
sieve into the basin, which must have a lip ; let it get 
cold ; pour off into a jug, taking care not to disturb 
the deposit, which is not to be used. 

A Restorative. 

Two eggs with the shells broken up small, the 
juice of one lemon put over the top to cover the shell. 
Let it stand till the egg-shells are dissolved, beat up, 
add sugar to taste, and one tablespoonful of brandy. 

Take two tablespoonsful at a time. 

Hen's Milk. 

Beat up two yolks of fresh eggs with one ounce of 
powdered sugar, and enough orange-flower water to 
turn the yolks white ; then stir in a cup of boiling 
water, and serve immediately. 

Hen's Milk No. z 

The yolks of 3 eggs ; 

5 ozs. boiling water ; 

If allowed, 3 ounces brandy. 

White Wine Whey. 

A large wine-glass of sherry is to be stirred into 
half a pint of milk, heated to the point at which it is 
done for cheese — below boiling-point ; as soon as the 
milk is turned strain off the curd. 



SUBSTITUTE FOR KOUMISS. 459 

Digested Milk. 

A pint of milk or of well-boiled gruel is to be 
added while boiling to an equal quantity of cold milk. 
This gives the temperature for artificial digestion. 

Add first thirty grains of carbonate of soda. 

Then i^ teaspoonsful of Liq. Pancreaticus. — 
{Benson,) 

The whole to stand for three hours maintained at 
the same temperature ; finally boil well. 

Drink a large wine-glass at a time. 

This preparation will not keep longer than twenty- 
four to thirty hours, but when koumiss is not ob- 
tainable digested milk is a substitute. 

Syrup of Gum. 

Take 4 ozs. of pure white gum, wash it carefully, 
let it stand in a pint of water till it is dissolved, strain 
through linen, wringing so as to waste none of the 
gum. Dissolve i lb. of sugar in water, flavour with 
orange-flower water, mix with the gum water, and 
bottle for use. 

Lemonade. 

A quart of lemonade requires 6 lemons if they 
are ripe and juicy, or 8 if not juicy. 

Begin by rubbing the outside of two lemons with 
knobs of white sugar to imbibe the zest, squeeze the 
juice out of all the lemons, after carefully picking out 
the pips, and strain through a silk sieve, mix the 
sugar, the lemon juice, and rather less than a quart 
of boiling water. Add sugar syrup to taste. A little 
syrup of gum is an agreeable addition. 



46o MENUS. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 



MENUS, 



These menus are taken from actual dinners, at 
which either the company or the cookery — generally 
both — were excellent. The order of the dishes differs 
according to whether the house was English or foreign. 

It should be explained that there are many dishes 
among these menus for which no recipes are given ; 
in some cases because the dishes are too complicated 
to be attempted in any house where there is not a 
French chef, whilst in other dishes the names are 
freaks of fancy on the part of the hosts. 

An entree dish contains rations for six or eight 
persons, therefore double or quadruple entries, accord- 
ing to the number of the guests, niust be ordered. 

Plainly dressed vegetables of three or four kinds 
are handed round in English houses with the principal 
joint : these are not given in the mienus. Salad is 
handed round with ham or with the * roast ; ' cheese 
and oatcake or biscuits after the * entremets ; ' as the 
preliminary to dessert a cream and a water ice are 
provided when the dinner is on the scale of most of 
these menus. 

At very elaborate dinners punch k la Roniainc is 



MEXUS. 461 

handed round between the serving the relev^s and 
the roast ; it is intended to stimulate the flagging 
appetite. 

The menus are arranged according to the months 
of the year, and the general accordance of fruits, vege- 
tables, game, &c., with the seasons. French cooks 
ignore the seasons, and compose dinners only to be 
obtained by using tinned (or canned) provisions. A 
more correct taste would select the fruits of the earth 
in due season, and only strive to obtain first-rate 
quality, not rarity purchased above its value, or meats 
deteriorated by the process of preserving. 

As many of the menus are written in French, and 
as dishes, like dressf:s, arc considered to have more 
distinction when made in Paris, it may be not without 
Use to explain some of those names which are given 
to their dishes by French cooks. 

Some of these names are taken from those towns 
or provinces of France which produce the ingredients 
of the dish, or give them the greatest prominence. 

Cr^cy grows the best carrots. Brittany has a 
monopoly of turnips. The southern cities of France 
are famed for truffles, and for dishes seasoned with 
truffles. Garlic has a flavour popular in Provence as 
well as in Spain, and may therefore be suspected in 
dishes * k la Provengale.* 

More than one sauce bears the name of a Marshal 
of France — Uxelles, Villeroi, Soubise — under Louis 
XIV. The second wife of that monarch gives her 
name to a cutlet, * k la Maintenon ; * and the favourite 
of Louis XV., Madame de Pompadour, was served 
with * bouch^es,' now called after her. 



462 MENUS. 

Sometimes, as in * sauce Robert/ it is the real con- 
triver of a flavour— the cook Robert, praised by Rabe- 
lais, who gives the name ; sometimes a gastronome, like 
B&hamel, desires that posterity shall remember him. 

St. Hubert presides over game as he does over 
field sports. Ste. M^nehould has the knack of Sug- 
gesting a sauce, which Louis XVI. to his cost must 
stop at Varennes to taste. 

More modern names, too, are found in menus — 
Talleyrand and Chateaubriand ; names from Russia — '- 
Nesselrode,Demidoff,Pahlen ; and there is the excellent 
dish called after Napoleon's battle *a la Marengo.' 

M.de Cussy, who when young had been patronised 
by Marie Antoinette, and who in later years was about 
the court of Marie Louise, failed to obtain a small 
place under Louis XVI IL till the discriminating 
monarch was told that the mixture of strawberries, 
cream, and champagne which possesses such a refined 
flavour was the creation of the aged gastronome. 

Puree of carrots is called a la Crdcy 

Puree of turnips „ i la Bretonne 

Puree of green peas „ a la d'Artois 

Pur^e of red haricots „ 4 la Conde 

Pur^e of white haricots „ 4 la Dustan 

Pur^e of lentils „ d la Chantilly 

Purde of onions „ i la Soubise 

Trout, carp, salmon, and pike, a la Chambord, 
are highly artificial dishes, with truffles and mush- 
rooms disguising the taste of the fish. 



Veal cutlets studded with truffles and tongue are 
called ' 4. la Dreux.' 




Dishes garnished with macaroni are 'k la mila- 
naise.' Parmesan cheese gives the epithet ' au Par- 
mesan.' 

' Potage Parmentier' is made, with potatoes, which 
were introduced into France by M. Parmentier. 

' Potage Xavier ' is a clear pale soup with threads of 
vegetables floating in it. 

'Potage k la d'Esclignac' must have a floating 
garnish of turnips. 

' Patties k la Montglas ' contain a mixture oi foie 
gras and truffles. 

Garnish 'aux trois filets ' means fillets of truffle, 
tongue, and chicken in equal quantities and of the 
same size. 

' Aux trois racines ' means carrots, turnips, and 
celery. 

' Chipolata,' little home-made sausages used as an 
addition to an entree. 

' Chateaubriand ' may be a sauce, a beefsteak, or a 
sweet dish. 

Fricassee of chicken 'a la chevaliere' is a very 
elaborate dish in flavour and arrangement. 



464 MENUS. 

The epithet * a la mar^chale ' is given to fillets of 
pork, of roe deer, of chicken, of sweetbread, or whiting 
* boudins/ Breadcrumbs and eggs, and broiling in 
each case are the distinctive points. 

Entries * k la Cardinal ' imply a garnish of either 
tongue or lobster to give a red colour. 

St. Florentin is patron of a rolled loin of beef, 
roasted in a paper coat, glazed before coming to 
table, and accompanied by a * sauce Robert,' i,e. a 
French version of sirloin and radish sauce. 

The expression ^ k la Joinville ' implies a garnish of 
truffles and crayfish. 

* A la Chasseur ' is said of the presence of game, 
or of a game flavour. 

* A la V^nitienne ' describes the refined form of 
parsley and butter sauce with a squeeze of lemon. 

* A la Nivernaise ' alludes to a garnish of carrots 
cut to the shape of olives. 

* A la Financiere ' will have a large admixture of 
cockscombs. 

When Bordeaux wine is put into the sauce, it is 
called ' a la Bordelaise.' 

Beignets of peaches are called a la Royale 

strawberries „ k la Dauphine 

currants „ a la Dauphine 

apricots „ k la Chartres 

apples „ pommes d'api k la 

d'Orl^ans 






Rice a la Creole, i.e, fried after being boiled. 
Gdteau a la G^noise contains almonds. 
Sicilienne a sweet dish iced. 



MENUS. 465 

Napolitaine, a sweet dish, also a fillet of beef dish. 

Iced puddings are called k la Nesselrode. 

Whilst the French cook shows his skill in deal- 
ing with the productions of France, he studies the 
characteristic dishes of other lands ; thus a salmon 
cutlet * k TAm^ricaine/ a * timbale k la Milanaise/ a 
* casserole k la Polonaise/ are better dressed in Paris 
than in the countries to which they belong. But we 
are not writing a book on the history of dishes, merely 
a modest manual for English housewives. 

In writing out or printing a menu for an elaborate 
dinner, or for a distinguished circle of guests, it is the 
practice sometimes to introduce old dishes under new 
names, so as to pique curiosity or to point a compli- 
ment. These names may surprise, they must not mis- 
lead the guests, and they must be rather of the nature 
of superfluous epithets than allowed to take the place 
of the matter-of-fact statement of the dish. On a 
birthday the pudding would be * 4 la G^raldine ' or * a 
la Edouard.' For a soldier the curry might be *ci la 
Candahar.' 

* Cr^me de volaille k la Cavendish,' * salmis k la Cecil,' 
might be suitable at a political gathering, but it is on 
the whole better taste not to be personal, and to write 
in a menu the description of a dish which is best 
known. To the objection that menus for English 
dinners should not be written in a foreign language 
we can only reply that the English words at our com- 
mand do not admit of the * bill of fare ' being written 
in the vernacular. 



H H 



466 



MENUS. 



January. 

Potage Aux trois racines 

Poisson Maquereaux k la maitre d'h6tel 

FnMei J ^^^"stades k la princesse 

(F^ilets de faisans aii fumet 

j Poulets aux huitres 

I Aloyau k la broche 

Rdt Canards sauvages 

ZJgume C^leri au jus 

Mayonnaise de filets de soles 
Gel^e d'abricots 

^ Pouding Nesselrode 



Relev^s 



Entremets 



Potages 

Poissons 

Entries 

Relevds 

Rdts 

Ugumes 

Entremets .. 



Relevh 



Tortue claire 

Pur^e k la royale 
j Turbot, sauce homard 
I Saumon, sauce Italienne 
/ Cotelettes d'agneau aux concombres 
\ Alouettes k la Perigord 
^ Supreme k la bonne-femme 
( Cochon de lait 
I Selle de mouton 
J Faisans au jus 
\ B^casses 

Buisson d'dcrevisse et homard 
j Petits pois k la Fran^aise 
( C^leri au jus 

Napolitaine k la cr^me 

Tartelettes de rhubarbe 

Gel(^e aux mandarins 

Macaroni k la Napolitaine 

Ramequins au fromage 
iTartines de caviar 






MENUS, 



m 



January. 

Poi tres ^ Consomm^ k la S^vignd 
I Bisque d'^crevisses 

Poissons 1 Saumon, sauce Chdlons 

t Filets de soles k la R^gence 

iMauviettes k la Princesse 
Filets de volaille k la Talleyrand 
C6telettes d'agneau aux poihtes d'asperges 
j Filet de bcEuf k la Moldave 
1 Poulardes k FAnglaise 
Bdcasses 
TJfrumes f Fonds d'artichauts farcis 

] Petits pois k la Frangaise 

Croustades de poires k la Bordelaise 
Timbale k la Montmorency 
Petits pains au Parmesan 



Relevds 
R6t .... 



Entremsts 



Folates \ ^^^^^^ d'^crevisses k la Parisienne 

(Consomme de volaille aux quenelles 

Poisson Turbot, sauce H ollandaise 

Filet de boeuf k la Portugaise 

/ Petites timbales k la Milanaise 
Entries \ Supr^mes de filets de poulets aux truffes 

V Salade de homard, bord d'aspic 
Punch k la romaine 
R6t Grouse 

/ Petits pois k TAUemande 
Entremets ... J Giteaux Napolitains gamis de fruits 

I Parfait au chocolat 



>*- \ .\ 



H H 2 



46? 



MENUS, 



January. 



2 Poiages . 

2 Relev^s ... 

2 Entret^s 
doubles 

Relevi 
(Tentries 



( Au consomm^ 
I Cr^me d'orge 



Vins. 
Mad^re — Xerc 



( Filets de soles k la Joinville 

( Poulardes k la Toulouse 

Champagn 

( Vol-au-vent de quenelles k la Bechamel 

( Cotelettes d'agneau k la Provengale 

Sillery roug« 

Quartier de chevreuil roti, sauce poivrade 



2 Rots 



4 Entremets 



Dessert 



Punch k la Romaine 
J Canetons 
\ Perdreaux 

Chateau Margaux 

Haricots verts k la maitre d'hotel 

Chicor^e k I'Allemande 

Gelee de noyau gamie de pistaches 

Savarin, sauce k Patwicot 
( Fromage ; Compotes, petits fours, &c. Porto. 

^ Glace au chocolat. X^res, Mad^re, 

V Ch. Margaiix, Malaga 



Potage Consommd printanier k la Royale 

Hors (foeuvre Les croustades k la Reine 

/ Le turbot, sauce homard 
Revelis - Les quartiers de chevreuil, sauces poivrade et 

i groseille 

I Les cotelettes d'agneau, pur^e de marrons 
Entries ' Les poulardes k la Godard 

V Les aspics de foie gras en belle vue 
Sorbets au kirsch 
Rdt Les faisans truflfes, gamis de becassines 

[ Les cardons k la moelle 

Entremets - ^^^ haricots verts k FAnglaise 

j Les babas glacds k I'anisette 
^ Les madeleines glac^es k I'ananas 




MENUS. 



469 



*£» 



ssons 



trt^es 



eves 



February. 

^uLres (Julienne 

Pur^e d'orge k la Reine 
I Filets de merlan k la ravigote 
( Saumon, sauce persil 
/ Rissolettes aux huttres 

Boudins de volaille aux truffes 

C6teletles d'agneau en belle vue 

Chapons k la financi^re 

Jambon d'York 
\ Selle de mouton 

Punch k la Romaine 

Canetons 

Pluviers 

( Pommes de terre, maitre d'h6tel 
I Epinards aux croiitons 
- Pain d'oranges 

Chartreuse k la Pomone 
tremets ... - Pouding glac^ k FAlexandrie 
I Savarin au rhum 
^Biscuits Gruy^re 



ts 



Tumes 



ages 



ssons 



J Bisque de ramiers k la chasseur 
[ Consomm^ de volaille k la Colbert 
J Saumon de Glo'ster, garni de bouch^es 
(Filets de merlans k I'ltalienne 

1 Supreme de pintades aux champignons 
Cotelettes d'agneau aux pommes de terre sautees 
Chaudfroid de mauviettes k I'aspic 
/ Dindonneaux k la Lyonnaise 
^//j ..... -I Langues de boeuf 

V Gigot de venaison k la Fran^aise 
Punch k la Romaine 
J Faisans 
(Bccasses 

ume Haricots flageolets, maitre d'hotel 

Giteau Compi^gne 



*remets 



Pains d'ananas k la Reine 
.Talmouses au parmesan 



470 



MENUS, 



Potages 
Poissons 

EnMcs . 

Relev^s 

Rots 

Legumes 



February. 

I Printanier k la Royale 

\ Puree de gibier k ia Princesse 

I Les tranches de saumon, sauces homard et Hol- 

landaise 
V Les filets de merlans k la Dieppoise 

Les poulets d^coup^s k la jardiniere 

Les c6telettes d'agneau pandes aux pointes d'aspeige 

Les timbales de foie gras en aspic 

Les faisans k la P^rigord 

Le jambon au Mad^re 

La selle de mouton k la duchesse 
^Hanche de venaison 
I Les sarcelles k la Bigarade 
( Les huitres au gratin 
j Les petits pois k la Frangaise 
( Les epinards k TEspagnole 
/ Les compi^gnes aux cerises 



ir 



Entremets ... -^ 



T Les gelees mosaiques k la modeme 



Les p^hes au riz k Pimperiale 
Les canapes aux anchois 



Potage A la bonne femme 

Poisson Cabillaud grille, sauce homard 

Entree Les filets de boeuf aux Epinards 

pi' j Les poulets k la mac^oine 

I La selle de mouton ' laver * 

Rot Les b^cassines 

IJgume Les asperges en branches 

/ L'aspic de foie gras 
Ejttremets ... J La tarte aux pommes 

( La Charlotte russe 



February. 

rotaets .... j Bisque de gibier i la R^ence 

IConsommd k la crtrne de volaille 

P ' tens I ' Waier souc W de Iruites 

IFilets de sole i la V^nitienne 
r;- f J ( Filets de bfeassines aux crofltes 

■^ Ic6lelettes k la d'Orleans 

„ . , J Dindon k t'estragon, au riemi-glace 

iQuartier d'agiicau 
Km iMauvlc,,.. 

{ Canards sauvages 
Legume Truffes de Perigord & la serviette 

, Pouding au marrons 
Enlremets ... J Plombifere d'abricots au Curasao 

(CroQtons & I'Allemande 



„ j Consomm^ aux pointes d'asperge 

•^ iPur^edeUtvre 

Poiison Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

Entries ] Compote de pigeons 

^ Souffles ^ la Reine 
R levi J *^'S*" *** chevreuil, sauce poivrade 

i Mayonnaise de homard 

RBts j^°"!^">''" 

\ CaiUes 
Ugume Haricots verts 

r. , , ( Baba aux fniits 

Entremets ... \-. . ,,, , . -„ 



472 



MENUS, 



March* 

Fotages J ^^^^"^ 

\ Consomme k la Lamartine 

Potssons J ^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^ ^"^^^ 

( Saumon de Christchurch 

Entries ' Timbales k la Poictiers 

I C6tclettes de mouton grilldes 
I Fricandeau k la Flamande 

Relev^s -^ Quartier d'agneau 

Ijambon k Paspic 

Rot Poulardes de Surrey 

Ugutne Petits pois au nature! 

Mayonnaise Napolitaine 
Gelee k la bombe de Tanger 
Entremets ... J Vol-au-veut k la Florentine 

Plombi^re k la Dubarry 
Crimes au parmesan 



Fotages 

Poissons 

Entries 



Relevd 

Entt^acte .. 

Rot 

Ugume 



Entremets ... 



( Consomme k la Xavier 
( Pur^e de volatile k la Reine 
( Truites, sauces verte et Genoise 
( Filets de sole k la diplomate 
I Ris d'agneau k I'Allemande 
\ Filets de pigeons k la Strabane 

Selle de mouton 

Les aspics k Parlequin 

Les cailles bardies 

Les truffes k la serviette 

Les babas k la sauce probldmatique 

Les chartreuses k la Cintra 

Les cremes de fromage 



MENUS. 



47^ 



March. 



Potages 



Poissons 



EnMes .. 



Relev^s 

Rots 

Legumes 



Entremets 



Consomm^ k la chitelaine 

Tortue fausse 
J Turbots, sauce Hollandaise 
I Eperlans, sauce anchois 

Petites bouch^es \ la Dieppoise 

Salmis de pluviers k I'essence, aux t ruffes 

Filets de chevreuil \ la Parisienne 

Chapons k la mac^doine 

Langues de bceuf 
j Quartiers d'agneau 
I Selles de mouton 
I Levrauts piques 
\ Mauviettes bardies 
( Mayonnaise de homards en belle vue 
\ Fonds d'artichauts farcis 
/ Abricots k. la Cond^ 
- Giteau ambroisie au curagao 
^ Petits souffles au moka 



Potages r 

Hors iVoeuvre 
Pots son 

Entries 

Relev^ 

Rots 

Legumes 

Entremets ... 



I Consommd aux quenelles 
( Bagration 

Les petites bouch^es aux huitres 

Le saumon k la Chambord 

La mayonnaise de homard 

Les supr^mes de volaille k I'ecarlate 

Le rosbif garni de pommes de terre nouveues 
( Les canards sauvages 
( La terrine de li^vre k la gelee 

Les pointes d'asperges aux petits pois 

Les cardons k la moelle 
j Les biscuits de Savoie k la vanille 
( La glace au chocolat 



474 



MENUS. 



Potages 



March. 

( Printanier k la duchesse 
( Bisque de volaille k TAlIemande 
Poissons ... i ^^^ truites de Loch Leven k Tarlequin 

1 Les chitelons.de merlan k la Rouennaise 
Entries ( ^^^ cr^pinettes k la Demidoff 

ILes filets de cailles de Virginie k la Peruvienne 
Relevh i ^^^ chapons k la Toulouse 

( Le quartier d*agneau 

Rot Les pigeons de Bordeaux 

Legume Les truffes k la serviette 

Les pains de homard 
Les croques en bouches k la Bresilienne 
Les souffles glacis k la sybille 
. Les favorites au gruy^re 



Fntremets ... - 



Potages 



Consommd de volaille aux profiterolles 

Bisque de homard k la Russe 
P . J Filets de saumon k la ChMons 

(Turbot au vin de Chablis 
j Filets de volaille k la Rachel 
( Salmis de gibier, financi^re 

Selles de mouton 

Poulardes Napolitaines 

Sarcelles 

Mauviettes 
I * Marrow bones * 
Ligume Asperges d'Argenteuil 

Brioches AUemandes 

Cr^me diplomate glacee 

Cr^me frite au parmesan 



Entries 



Relevds 



Rots. 



Entremets ... 



MENUS, 



475 



ApriL 

n ^ ( Tortue claire 

p . j Filets de saumon k la cardinal 

(Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

- . - , I Boudins de volaille k la Boh^mienne 

Entrees ^ ^a , j, . . 

( Cotelettes d'agneau aux petits pois 

A* Af7 / J ^*^^^^ ^^ bceuf k la Proven9ale 

(Poulardes k la R^gence 

„^ . J Cailles bardies 

I Chaudfroid de bdcassines 

r , I Asperges en branches 

Ugvmes Itt • \ ^ 

^ ( Haricots verts 

r^ . . ( Cr^me de vanille k la Mauresque 
Entremets ... ^^. . ,, , 7 • 

( Gateau garni d une glace aux fraises 



„ . ( Consomm^ k FArctique 

Poiasres - ^ ^ 

( Bonne-femme 

n . ' Filets de truite k la * wastre fish ' 

Potssons J 

( Soles au vin blanc 
, . , J Ris de veau k la mar^chale 

( Attelets k la Bordelaise 

Relevh ... I Quartier d'agneau 

jPoulets k la Nesle 

Rot Pigeons de Bordeaux 

Ldgume Salade k la Marseillaise 

y, . . ( Croque en bouche k la Bayadere 

Entremets ... i . . ^ i ^ jj 

(Mousse glacee d'ananas 

Favorites 



476 



MENUS, 



April. 

Potage Bonne-femme 

Poisson Filets de maquereaux k la maitre d'h6tel 

Entries j^ff'^'"' x , c u- 

( Cotelettes de mouton a la Soubise 

R6t Pigeons 

Ugume Champignons grilles 

Entremet ... Pain d'oranges k la Chantilly 



Potages 



Tortue k I'Anglaise 
Consomm^ k la r^forme 
. Saumon, sauce homard 

Poissons Filets de rougets k la Dieppoise 

Whitebait 
/ Bouchdes de levrauts k Timperiale 

Entries \ Supreme de volaille aux pointes d'asperge 

i Cailles truffees k la Perigord 
n , /c ( YWti de boeuf k la printani^re 

( Quartier d'agneau 
/ Canetons 

RSts,, Jambon au vin 

Poulets 

Ugumes I Asperges en branches 

( Foies gras a raspic 
Gel^e aux fraises 
Tartelettes k la cr^me aux p6ches 
Biscuits glacis k la vanille 
^ Giteaux au fromage 



Entremets 



\ 



MENUS. 



47? 



April, 

Potage Consomm^ de volaille k la Princesse 

HorsePceuvre Petites bouchdes de crevettes 
p . J Turbot garni, sauce homard 

( Filet de boeuf Mad^is k la Godard 

/ Cotelettes de poulets nouveaux aux concombres 
E/iMes -j Petits boudins de lapereaux k la Richelieu 

^ Pzltds de foie gras de Strasbourg k la gel^e 
Punch k la Romaine 
Rot Pintades r6ties 

f Asperges, sauce Hollandaise 
Entremets ... -. Gateaux de Compi^gne aux pfiches 

^ Riz k IMmp^ratrice garni d'une cr^me de fraises 



Potages 
Poissons 



( A 'a d'Esclignac 

( Cr^me de riz k la Victoria 
Saumon, sauces Tartar et persil 
Filets de sole k la cardinal 

/Quartier d'agneau 
Relevis J J ambon k PEs pagnole 

' Hanche de venaison 

( Poulardes au cresson 

I Levrauts 

I Haricots verts 
Champignons au gratin 
Qilufs de pluviers k I'aspic 

/ Gelee de fruits 
Entremets ... j Savarin d'orange 

^ D'Artois au parmesan 



Rots. 



Lt^gumes 



478 



MENUS, 



Potages 



Poissons 



Entries 



Relevh 



Rdts 

Ugumes ,, 

Entremets 



Relevis 



May. 

( Consomm^ de volaille k la Colbert 
( Pur^e d'asperge aux croiitons 

Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

C6telettes de saumon, sauce Genevoise 

Whitebait 

CroUstades k la Montglas 

Supreme de volaille aux truffeS 

C6telettes d'ag^eau en belle vue 

Poulardes k la P^rigueiix 

Jambon au vin de Mad^r6 

Selle de mouton 

Cailles aiix feuilles de vigne 

Mayonnaise de homard 

Asperges, sauce Hollandaise 

Haricots verts, maltre d'h6tel 

Gel^es au marasquin 

Giteaux k la Chantilly 

Brioches aux abricots 

Pailles au parmesan 

Canapes aux anchois 



Potages 



Entries 



( Consommd Geoflfroi aux racines 
\ Pur^e k la Reine 

Poissons i ^^"^^^ ^"^ limandes 

( Filets de truites k la marini^re 

Suprtoes de volaille k PAndalouse 

Chaudfroid k la reine de Chypre 

/ Selle de mouton k la Portugaise 
Relevis j Poulardes poeldes k la Godard 

i Jambon d'York au Mad^re 
nA. \ Cailles bardies aux feuilles de ^vigne 

(CEufs de vanneau k la Moscovite 
Asperges d'Argenteuil 
Giteau aux mille fruits 
Melons glacis aux pistaches 
Cassolettes k Plndienne 



Ugutne ... 



\niremets 



MENUS. 479 



May. 

Potage Cr^me de riz 

Hors doeuvre Bouch^es k la MontglaS 

Poisson Truite saumon^e k la Nantua 

Relevds ' Filet de boeuf aux tomates farcies, sauce Mad^re 

1 Filets de canetons k la Rouennaise 
Entries Chaudfroid de mauviettes 

Punch au kirsch 
R levds J I^^J^^o'^n^^ux nouveaux au cresson 

(Jambon de Bayonne 

Ugume Asperges en branches 

Entremets ... Biscuits glacis 



Potages 
Poissons 



Consommd k la Carlton 
1 Pur^e de riz k la cr^me 
J Saumon k la Tartare 
*•* (Whitebait 

F trdes i T^"^^^^^s ^® macaroni, sauce supr^m< 

i C6telettes d'agneau en chaudfroid 

l^elevis j Poulets k la jardiniere 

( H anche de mouton 

I CEufs de vanneau k Taspic 

Entremets ... Pouding Ma diplomate 

Gateaux glaces 
' Souffle au parmesan 



48q MENUS, 



May. 

Potage Consommd k la printani^re 

Poisson Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

Entries ' Bouchdes k la Hongroise 

\ Supreme de volaille 

Relevd Quartier d'agneau 

Rot Pigeons de Bordeaux 

Ugumes...:.. j Asperges d'Argenteuil 

[ OiUfs de vanneau. au cresson 
/ Caramel en surprise 

Entremets ... j Gateau k la miile-feuilles 

\ Omelette au parmesan 



Potage A la Pri ncesse 

Poisson Whitebait 

Relevd Rosbif garni 

Entries j Timbales de foie gras 

( Canetons aux olives 

Rot Poulets r6tis 

/Asperges en branches 

Entremets ... ^'^""^^ \ '^'"f ."V. •„ 

Biscuits glaces a la Chantilly 

V Parfaits de framboise 



MENUS. 



481 



Potages 



June. 

Tortue claire 

Pur^e de pois aux pointes d'asperge 
Poissons I Filets de sole k I'ltalienne 

( Saumon en mayonnaise 
/ Pains de volaille aux truffes 
. C6telettes d'agneau k la duchesse 
.Cailles k Paspic 

Chapons braises k la jardiniere 

Jambon d'York 

Hanche de mouton 

.R6IS iCanetons 

( Levraut 



Entries 



Relevh 



•••••• 



Ugutnes 



( Petits pois k la Parisienne 
( Champignons au gratin 



( 

Entremets ... J 



Gelde au vin de Champagne 
Gdteau k la Princesse 
Souffle au marasquin 
Croiites aux olives 



Pet age A la Royale 

Hors cPanivre Les petits pitds aux truffes 
P I j^s ^ ^*^ truite, sauce aux crevettes 

t Le rosbif k I'Anglaise 

/ Les c6telettes d'agneau gamies d'une macedoine 
Entries \ Les filets de pigeons aux petits pois 

' Les terrines de foie gras k la geMe 
Punch k la Romaine 
RSt Les poulets au cresson 

I Les fonds d'artichauts au jus 

^^^^^ \Les haricots verts k I'Anglaise 

r^ . . ( Le baba, sauce au X^r^s 

'Entremets ... J , . ' ,1. r • 

( La gelee au kirsch aux fraises 



I I 



4S2 



MENUS, 



June. 



I Consomm^ k la Princesse 

^ (Pur^e k la Jean- Jacques Rousseau 

. ( Saumon de Glo'ster, sauce HoUandaise 

( Supreme de filets de soles k la Royale 

. Croquettes de ris de veau k la Montglas 

Entrees . Filets de volaille k la Nesle 

{ Cotclettcs d'agneau k la Montmorency 

„ , , I Poulets braises k la jardiniere 

ReleT.fes c n j * 

( belle de mouton 

.,>,. I Canetons 

Rots .^ ... 

I Cailles 

, , ( Petits pois k la Francaise 

* I Mayonnaise k la Bismarck 

[ Gelee aux fruits 

^ ' Chartreuse de fraises 

j Petites bouch^es k la G^noise aux cerises 
' Pouding aux avelines glac^es 



i 



Potages 



Poissons 



Entries 



\ Consomme k la Juvenal 
\ Pur^e de volaille k la Windsor 
( Filets de maquereaux k Fltalienne 
\ Turbot, sauce maitre dlidtel 
Y Petites bouch^es au Salpicon 
Grenadins de veau k la macedoine 
Quenelles de homard 
f Poulardes k la jardiniere 

Relevcs J ambon au naturel 

i Selle de mouton 

Rdts Canetons 

Ugume Petits pois k la Fran9aise 

I Chartreuse de peches 
Cr^me au chocolat 
"j (iiteau Congr^s aux fraises 
V Plombi^re glac^e 



Entremets 



MENUS, 



483 



June. 

Poiage Consomm^ k la duchesse 

ri ' ( Saumon, sauce k I'eau au persil 

(Whitebait 
p. f^t J Poulets k la Viennoise, sauce tartare 

I Filets de boeuf, B^arnaise 

I Hanche de mouton 

I Jambon aux ^pinards 
CEufs farcis k la St-Honord 

I Cr^me aux fraises 



Relevis 



Entremets 



Baba au rhum 
Failles au panxiesan 



Pot ages 

Potssons 

Entries 

Relevh 

Rots 

Ldgumes 

Entremets ... 



( Consomm^ \ la d*Orl^ans 
( Bisque d'ifcrevisse 
( Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 
i Filets de sole k la d*Artois 

C6telettes souffl^es, pur^e de champignons 
. Nectarine de foie gras en belle vue 

Hanche de venaison 

Gigot d'agneau 

Salade Demidoff 

Granit au champagne 
( Pigeons au cresson 
( Mddaillons de homard 
( Asperges en branches 
( Petits pois k I'Anglaise 

Mac^doine de fruits 

Savarin k la Fran^aise 



I I 2 



484 



MENUS, 



Potages 
Poissons 

Entries 



Relevi 



Rots. 



Ugumes 



Entremets 



July. 

j Printanier k la renaissance 

[ Pur^e de concombres au vert-pr^ 

(Turbot, sauce HoUandaise 

\ Truite saumon^e k la Bordelaise 
Petits pat^s de homard k I'ancienne 
Ris de veau k la Romaine 
Cotelettes de cailles k la financi^re 
. Chaudfroid de volaille en belle vue 

/ Ranches de mouton 

I Chapons k Festragon 

1 Langues de boeuf 

Ijambon 
Punch au champagne 

[ Canetons au cresson 

- Petits poulets, Reine 

Salade de filets de sole k la Vdnitienne 
j Fonds d'artichauts aux fines herbes 
( Petits pois k I'Anglaise 
I Fondants aux reine-Claude 

- Mac^doine de fruits des quatre saisons 
I Crimes frites au parmesan 



„ j Consomm^, brunoise 

(Pur^e de pois, St-Germain 

„ . j Truite, sauce matelote 

t Filets de merlans k la Orly 

F t ^ s i 'r^^^^^^^s ^ ^^ Talleyrand 

(Mauviettes en belle vue 

Relevds ( Quartier d'agneau 

I Salade Demidoff 
Granit au champagne 
o . j Canetons 

1 Chaudfroid de volaille 

Ugume Petits pois k FAnglaise 

P . . ( Su^doise d'abricots 

(Timbales de gaufres k la Carlsbad 



MENUS, 



485 



July. 

* A wheV Anchovy butter * 

Soup M idsummer soup 

I^ish Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

j^ f I J Lamb cutlets with cucumber 

( Boudin of fowl en ragoiit 
^ >, . J Spanish ham, Russian salad 

(Quails and peas 

1 Omelette au cur^ 
Amber witch pudding 
Pain of damsons 
Pineapple ice 



Potages 

Hors (Pceuvre 
Relevh 

EnMes 



Rdts 

Ugumes 



Entremets ... 



j D'orge li^e aux cro{itons 
\ Consonmi^ k la Royale 

Petites bouch^es k la Reine 
( Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 
\ Selle de mouton gamie k la duchesse 

Supreme de filets de volaille truff^s 

C6telettes d'agneau, sauce St. Germain 

Filets de venaison, poivrade 
, Aspic de homard en belle vue 

ijambon d'York, chaud, aux ^pinards 
Ortolans gamis de cro(itons 
J Haricots verts 
t Champignons, Proven gale 
/ Bavarois k I'ambassadrice 
J Glace k Pananas 
Baba au rhum 



486 



MENUS, 



July. 

Pot (T ' Consomm^ k la Dauphine 

( Pur^e de pois aux croutons 

,, , ( Saumon froid k la Tartare 

( Filets de soles a la Orly 
Fntr Vj ^ Cotelettes d'agneau aux haricot s verts 

( Chaudfroid de filets de volaille 
,, » , ( Canetons braises aux petits pois 

i Selle de mouton 
Rot Cailles bardies 

( Asperges en branches 
IJgumes Tomates au gratin 

( Pain de foie gras k la gel^e 

[ Pouding au caramel 
Entremets ... ^ Petits souffles glacis k la cardinal 

[ Pailles k la Sefton 



Potage Le consommd peluche k la Royale 

Poisson Les filets de soles k la Simeon 

ReleTj^s ^ ^^ rosbif k FAnglaise 

I Les poulardes k la P^rigueux 

^^i Les canetons r6tis 

JJgutne Les cucucelles au jus 

Entremets ... i ^» S'^*^^ *" *°:^"1*^ 

( Les croquettes Genoises 



f 



MENUS. A^l 



August. 

Soup A la Royale 

J^^ish M ackerel, fennel sauce 

KnMe Lamb cutlets, pur^e of turnips 

Relevd Braised beef 

Rot Ducks and green peas 

,, - . \ Raspberry bread 

T artines a la Dieppoise 



Soup Chiffonnade of lettuce 

Fish Haddocks 

KnMe Cream of lobster 

Jielev^ls J Veal pie 

( Beef a la mode 

Ugume Eggs in aspic 

Entremets ... J , ^ ,„. 

( Cheese souffle 



488 MENUS. 



Aug^ust. 



^>ofages (TortuekrAnglaise 

I Aux pronterolles 



Poissons 1 ^^""'O" ^® Severn, sauce homard 

1 Filets de sole k la ravigote 
' Petites croustades de foie gras 

_, ^ , Cailles k la P^rigord 

Entrees - c • j> 

Epigramme d'agneau aux pois 

. Poulets k la Montmorency 

Relev^s 1 ^^^ ^^ mouton 

I Jambon aux ^pinards 

Rdts (Ortolans 

( Levraut 

Ldgiime Haricots verts k la cr^me 

IGel^e au marasquin 
P^ches au riz 
Biscuits glacis k la vanille ' 
Pailles au parmesan 



Soup Rabbit soup 

Eish Sand eels 

j^ f j^c J Puree k la Portugaise 

I Venison cutlets a la Napolitaine 

„ ( Roast chickens* 

Removes \^ _ _ 

I Beef chops 

Roast Grouse 

Vegetable .... Mushrooms 

Sweet Dishes \ Compote of i^ars 

I Frozen souffle 




MENUS. 48^ 



August. 

Potage Vermicelli 

Poisson Saumon, sauce Hollandaise 

F tr^ s i ^^^ ^^ veau, sauce tomate 

(Filet de boeuf aux champignons 
Rot Poulets des Princes 

Ugumes (Caenaujus 

1 Haricots verts 

i:- 4 ^ * I Chambord 

Entremets ... ] ^ 1. 1. r •. 

I Croque en bouche aux fruits 



Soup O rleans soup 

Fish Soles k la cardinal 

Entrie Croustades of sweetbread 

Roast Roast leg of lamb, salad, French beans 

/ Crab souffle 
Entremets ... j Amber pudding 

I Boiled cheese 



490 MENUS. 



September. 

Soup Russian soup 

Fish Turbot, Dutch sauce 

jc-/^/-.. ' Chicken k la Viennoise 

tLntrees - . 

\ Cumed palates 

Remove Saddle c«f mutton 

Roast Black game 

Vegetables ! Mayonnaise of lobster 

{ Peas k la Fran^aise 
/ Strawberry creams 

Sweet dishes . - Baba, rum sauce 

^ Parmesan straws 



Retnaves 



Soup Puree of hare 

Fish Fillets of mackerel, fennel sauce 

Entries J ^""^ ^^ Wales' cutlets 

1 Salmis of partridge 
Roast beef 

I Ham with spinach 

Roast Grouse 

Vegetable ... French beans, cream sauce 

^ Souffle pudding 
Sweet dishes . -. Punch jelly 

^ Anchovy toast 



^' 



MENUS, 491 



September. 

Soup Scot's broth 

Fish H addocks, e%g sauce 

Kemm>es (Jugged hare 

( Haunch of mutton 

Roast Partridges 

Vegetable Artichoke bottoms 

Apple Charlotte 



Sweet dishes . 



Chocolate creams 
\ Parmesan biscuits 



Soup Parmentier (pur^e of potato) 

Fish Slices of salmon grilled, Tartar sauce 

Entrdes I Grenadins of rabbit 
i H aricot mutton 

/>^...^«.^. ' Rump-steak pie 
Kemoves t • *• 

( Lorn of mutton rolled 

Roast Grouse 

Vegetable Flageolets 

/ Prune jelly 
Sweet dishes . - Iced rice pudding 

\ Ham toasts 



492 MENUS. 



September. 

Soup Pur^e of grouse 

Fish Fillets of sole k la Orly 

Entries J Q^^^^^^^s of rabbit and truffles 

(Fillet of beef k la B^amaise 
Removes ^ Neck of mutton, braised with rice 

I Haunch of venison 

Roast Partridges 

Vegetable Cauliflower au gratin 

Madeleines 

■ Vanille cream (iced) 
Anchovy toast 



Sweet dishes . 



Potage ...... Pur^ k la Stamboul (rice and tomato ; 

Poisson Saumon, sauce k la tartare et k Peau 

p ^ t \ Quenelles k la Reine 

(Filets de canard aux olives 

Releva (Haggis 

( Haunch of venison 

Rdt Black game 

Ugume Russian salad 

Whipped eggs 

Fried plum pudding 

Ginger souffle 



Entremets 



MENUS. 



4S^3 



October. 



Entries 



Relevis 



•••••• 



Potage Consomm^ aux quenelles 

Poisson Rougets k 1' I talienne 

. Croquettes de homard 

. Boudins de volaille aux truffes 

Filets de perdreaux aux champignons 

Fricandeau k Poseille 

Gigot de mouton 

Rot Faisans 

Ugume Aspic k la Victoria 

Pain de pommes k la cr^me 

Pouding k la St-Cloud 

Souffle glac^ au chocolat 

Talmouses au parmesan 



Entremets 



Entries 



Relevh 



Potage Consomm^, sagou li^ 

Poisson Turbot, sauce homard 

Pdt^s au Salpicon 

Cr^me de faisans aux truffes 

Cotelettes de mouton k la Soubise 

J Poulets k la Toulouse 

lAloyau de bceuf 

Rdt Perdreaux 

T I ( Epinards au jus 

IJgumes i .*^ . J r ' 

\ Aspic de foie gras 

Gateau k la Chantilly 

Entremets ... - Souffld k la vanille 

Croustades k la Milanaise 



494 



MENUS. 



Pot ages . . 
Poisson , . 

Entries . . 

Relevh . . 

Rots 

Legumes... 

Entremets 



October. 

( Consommd k la julienne 

\ Aux queues de veau 
Saumon, sauce tartare 
Kromeskis aux huttres 
Filets de perdreaux 
Cotelettes k la Soubise 

I Oie k la St-Michel 

I Boeuf k la jardiniere 

I Grouse 

t Bdcasses 

I Aspic de homard 

i Salsifis au jus 

i GeMe d'orange 

•I Pouding k la mousseline 

^ Souffl^e au parmesan 



Potages . 
Poisson . 

Entries . 

Relevis . . 

Rdts 

Ugume .. 

Entremets 



j Consommd k la Nivemaise 
tAbattis d'oie 

Turbot, sauce homard 

Petites caisses de gibier 

C6telettes d'agneau aux epinards 

Filets de canetons k la bigarade 
/ Poulets k Pestragon 
-. Langue de boeuf 
I Hanche de venaison 
( Faisans 
I Li^vre 
C^leri au jus 
/ Poires k I'lmp^ratrice 
-' Pouding k la Lady Graham 
( Ramequins au parmesan 



MENUS, 495 



October. 



P t fres ^ Consommd aux profiterolles 

I Pur^e de li^vre 

Poisson Cabillaud, sauce aux cBufs 

( Croustades dc mobile 
Entrees - Blanquette de volaille aux concombres 

i C6telettes k la Soubise 

/ Dinde k I'ltalienne 
R el eves -' Jimbon d'York 

i Filet de bceuf k la macedoine 
,, X . ( B^cassines 

{ Perdreaux 
IJgitme Fonds d'artichauts k la Lyonnaise 

/GeMe panach^e 
Entremets ... Giteau k la Chantilly 

I Cro(ites k la New York 



Pota^es J ^o'^somm^ k la julienne 
( Cr^me d'orge 

Poissons J ^^^^"S^s, sauce moutarde 

I Filets de sole k la Venitienne 
/ Timbales k la Bohdmienne 

Eintr^es < Cotelettes d'agneau aux concombres 

\ Filets de bcEuf aux olives 
/ Poulets k la Pdrigueux 

Relevis \ Langue de bceuf 

I Hanche de venaison 

„ >. . J Canards sauvages 

[Perdreaux 

IJmines J ^^"^^ ^^ pommes de terre 
1 Mayonnaise de homard 

/ Gel^e au vin, garnie de fruits 
Entremets ... J Gaufres k la Chantilly 

I Beignets au parmesan 



496 



MENUS, 



\ 



November. 

Potage Consomm^ k 1' I mpdriale 

Poisson Rougets k P I talienne 

Croustades k la moelle de boeuf 
Entrdes • Filets de perdreaux aux truffes 

C6telettes de mouton k la Soubise 
Relevds f Dindonneau k la Chipolata 

( Boeuf brais^ aux haricots 

R6t Faisans 

Ugume Chou marin, sauce HoUandaise 

Gel^e k la mac^doine 



Entremets 



Souffle k la vanille 
^ Croutons k la Gotha 



Potages 

Pots sons 

Entries 

RelevSs 

Rdts 

Legume 

Entremets ... 



Les Huitres 

Consommd k Flmp^riale 

Pur^e k la duchesse 

Turbot au gratin 

Saumon k la cardinal 

Supremes de volaille k la chevali^re 

Filets de boeuf k la demi-provengale 

Timbale de b^cassines 

Selle de mouton 

Faisans 

Sarcelles 

Haricots verts k la Parisienne 

Charlottes k la Plombi^re 

Petites bouch^es k la Napolitaine 

Caviar k la russe 



MENUS, 



497 



November. 

Potage Consommd, julienne 

Paisson Turbot, sauce Hollandaise 

Fntr^es 1 ^^^"^^ ^^ volaille k la ravigote 

I Filets de li^vre k la mar^chale 

Relevd Selle de mouton 

Sorbets au champagne 

Rot Faisans k la broche 

Ugume Cardonsaujus 

1'CEufs k la Lucullus 
Plum pudding k I'Anglaise 
Flans k la Russe 



Pot ages 

Poissons 

Entries 

Relevis 

Rdts,.,.: 

Ugume 

Entremets ... 



Tortue claire k I'Anglaise 

Cr^me de chicorde 

Cabillaud, sauce aux huitres 

Filets de soles k la cardinal 

Bouch^es d'artichauts k la Danoise 

Filets de perdreaux k la moderne 

Chaudfroid de cailles 

Poulardes k la Bressane 

Filet de boeuf au vin de Champagne 
J B^casses 
I Dinde 

Haricots verts k la Lyonnaise 

Mazarins gamis d'ananas 

Mousses aux framboises 

Crimes frites k la Viennoise 



KK 



498 MENUS. 



November. 

Potage Tete de veau, clair 

Poisson Cabillaud, sauce aux huitres 

EnMes ^ Croustades, gamies de moelle de boeuf 

\ Pain de li^vre aux tniflfes 

Dinde aux marrons 

Langue de boeuf 

Filet de boeuf braise, sauce Madere 

Rot Black game 

Ugume Chicor^e k la cr^me 

r:- . . ( Gel^e d'oranees 

Entremets ... .' ^ ,. . i ^ -> 

( Poudmg a la. Gotna 



Relevis 



Potage Consomm^ aux ravioli 

Poisson Filets de soles k la B^amaise 

p 4 ( ^ < Quenelles k la financi^re 

( Filets de li^vre piques en chevreuil 

Relevi Gigot de mouton k la Bretonne 

Rot Pluviers 

Ugume Epinards k la cr^me 

Entremets . . . Pouding de riz glac^ 



MENUS, 



499 



Poiage 

Poissons 

EnMes 

Ldguvie 

Rot 

Relevis 

Entremets . 



December. 

Tortue 

f Huitres d'Ostende 
( Saumon du Rhm, sauce Joinville 
/ Filet de bcEuf k la Mont-Fleuri 
I Supr^mes de volaille k la P^rigueux 

Aspic de foie gras en belle vue 

Galantine de dinde sur socle 

Asperges en branches, sauce Hollandaise 

Punch mousseline 

Faisan de Boh^me truff(f sur croustade 

Salade de saison 

Jambon d'York k la R^gence 

Timbale k la Victoria 

I Plum pudding au rhum 
Fromage glac^ 
Giteau Napolitain monte 
Pieces montdes en nougat 



Poiages 



Entries 



Relevh 



j Consomm^ aux quenelles 
\ Pur^e k la Reine 
„ . \ Turbot, sauce homard 

[Filets de soles k la V^nitienne 
Bouch^es k la Pompadour 
Escaloppes de faisans aux truffes 
Grenadins de veau aux pois 
/ Poulardes k la Toulouse 
Langue de bcEuf 
' Hachis de venaison 
Bceuf r6t 
n*. J Canards sauvages 

1 B^casses 

IJgume Epinards k la cr^me 

( Pouding glac^ k la Nesselrode 
Entremets ... \ Brioches aux cerises 

V Croiites aux anchois k I'aspic 

K K 2 



500 MENUS, 



December. 

Pofafres 1 Consommd k la Moldave 

I Cr^me de concombres 

y:, . ( Saiunon, sauce homard 

I Filets de sole k la marini^re 
Entries ^ Petites croustades de gibier k la Talleyrand 

[ Filets de volaille aux truffes 
Selle de mouton 
Oison k la Viennoise 
f Faisans 
\ Bdcasses 

IJgume Pain de chicor^e k la cr^me 

Brioches chaudes k la Nesselrode 
Melons glacis k la Parisienne 
Croutes au jambon 



Relevis 
RSts.... 



Entremets 



Potage Consommd printanier 

Hors (Tceuvre Petites bouch^es k la Princesse 
Paisson Saumon, sauce' Genevoise 

Entries J ^'^^^^ ^^ perdreaux k la chasseur 

(Cotelettes de Pr^sale aux petits pois 

Relev ^s i ^^^ ^^ boeuf k la Provengale 

1 Poulardes truffles 

Rdts j Faisans 

i Chaudfroid de mauviettes 

Ugume Asperges en branches 

c 4 . f Timbales de poires 

Entremets — \^ ,, ., *^ 

\ Gelee d'oranges gamie 



MENUS, 501 



December. 

Potatres i ^^^ profiterolles k la chasseur 

I Cr^me d'orge k la Victoria 

Poissons J Meriuches, sauce aux oeufs 

( Rougets k la cardinal 

Croustades de vermicelli k la P^rigord 
EnMes Timbales de cr^me de volaille 

Filets de pigeons pan^s k la Villeroi 

Dinde k PAnglaise 
Relevds Jambon k la mac^doine 

Hanche de venaison 

Rdts WT"^^ 

( Mauviettes 

Ugume Topinambours k la poulette 

GeMe de marasquin gamie de fruits 

Entremets ... • Flans de poires k la Portugaise 

Crotites k Hndienne 



Potage Consomm^ k la julienne 

Poisson Saumon, sauce Gallipoli 

Entries 1 ^^^*^^^ timbales aux huitres 

( Filets de pluviers aux truffes 

Relevi Selle de mouton 

Rot Faisans 

Ugume Cardons k la moelle 

Pain de foie gras k la gel^e 

, Pouding souffle au gingembre 
hntremeh ... \ p^^^j^ ^^^^ ^ ,,^^^g^ 

Petites crimes k la Royale 



502 



MENUS. 



Twenty-four Menus for Four to Six Persons. 



\ 



Hotchpotch 
Sea trout 
Rabbit quenelles 
Roast mutton 
Grouse 
Fruit tart 



Grouse soup 
Herring 
Mutton cutlets 
Rabbit pie 
Roast venison 
Miroton of apples 



Barley broth 
Salmon 
Sheep's head 
Chartreuse of grouse 
Roast hare 
Stone cream 



Pea soup 
Soles k ritalienne 
Pork cutlets 
Roast capon 
Spinach, dressed 
Jam roll 



Tapioca soup 

Fried smelts 

Slices, fillet of beef 

Boiled pheasant, celerj'^ sauce 

Baba 

Anchovy toast 



Palestine soup 
Turbot, caper sauce 
Oyster patties 
Mutton kabobs 
Roast pork 
Sea kale 
Punch jelly 



Ox-tail soup 
Whiting pudding 
Salmis of -partridge 
Fillet of beef 
Apricot tartlets 
Indian sandwiches 



Bonne-femme soup 

Red mullet 

Chicken k la Marengo 

Roast lamb 

Cold ham and jelly 

Pears k la Cond^ 



Soup, with quenelles 
Salmon, Dutch sauce 
Sheep's tongues, fried 
Beef-steak pudding 
Roast pheasant 
Prune shape, with cream 



Mutton broth 
Fried whiting 
Brains fried in butter 
Roast beef 
Snipe 
Mince pies 



MENUS. 



503 



Purde of pearl barley 
Sole au gratin 
Mutton cutlets 
Partridges, with cabbage 
Cranberry tart 
. Cheese beignets 



Hare soup 

Water souch^ 

Kromeskis 

Braised mutton 

Aspic of pheasant 

Little cups of vanilla cream 



Spring soup 

Cold salmon, Tartar sauce 
Chicken k la Viennoise 
Beef-steak pudding 
Compote of gooseberries 
Souffle of Parmesan cheese 



Clear mock turtle 
Haddock, ^gg sauce 
Cutlets of chicken, ham 
Rolled loin of mutton 
Marrow bones 
Wine jelly 



Rice soup 

Lobster cutlets 

Calf s head, with tomato sauce 

Ribs of beef rolled 

Fruit tart 

Canapes aux anchois 



Flemish soup 

Skate and black butter 

Beef coUops 

Spatchcock chicken 

Mayonnaise lobster 

Rice fritters, with pineapple 



Consomm^ k la Royale 
Turbot, dressed with cream 
Chaudfroid of brains 
Braised beef 
Larks 
Ginger souffle 



Puree of haricots 
Brill, stuffed with shrimps 
Liver and bacon 
Roast mutton 
Celery au gratin 
Pastry sandwiches 



Vermicelli soup 
Fillets of sole k la Orly 
Stewed rump steak 
Roast pheasants 
Apple charlotte 
Macaroni, with cheese 



Lentil soup 
Cod, oyster sauce 
Croquettes f game 
Roast mutton 
Artichoke fritters 
Chocolate souffle 



504 



MENUS. 



Julienne soup 
Fish cakes 
Jugged hare 
Hoiled beef 
Scolloped oysters 
Albert pudding 



Green pea soup . 

Salmon 

Souffle of chicken 

Cold quarter of lamb, salad 

Quails 

Iced gooseberry fool 



Pur^e of asparagus soup 
Mackerel 
Lamb cutlets 
Roast duck 
Russian salad 

Rice shape, with strawberry 
cream 



Sago soup 
John Dory 
Veal cutlets 

Shoulder of mutton k la Soubis 
Custard pudding, with red cur- 
rant sauce 
Cheese straws 



With these dinners two or three kinds of vegetables are to be 
served, of which one is to be potatoes. 



HOMEL V FARE, 505 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

HOMEL Y BILLS OF FARE. 

Dietary for One Week. 

HOUSEHOLD OF SIX PEOPLE AND THREE CHILDREN AND FOUR 

SERVANTS. 

Sunday. 

Soup. Cold roast beef. Plum pudding or fruit tart. All dine 
in the middle of the day. 

Monday. 

Late Dinner, 
Boiled mutton. Hashed beef. Rolypoly pudding. 

Early Dinner for Children and Servants, 
Mutton broth. Boiled mutton. Bread pudding. 

Tuesday. 

Late Dinner. 
Roast leg of mutton. Rissoles. Cabinet pudding. 

Early Dinner, 
Roast mutton. Rice and stewed fruit. 



5o6 HOMEL Y FARE. 

Wednesday. 

Late Dinner. 
Fish. Cold mutton. Cuit>-. Suet pudding. 

Early Dinner. 
Fish. Cold mutton. Fritters. 

Thursday. 

Late Dinner. 
Stewed brisket of beef. Fruit tart. 

Early Dinner. 
Beef steak. Rice pudding. 

Friday. 

Late Dinner. 
Soup. Cold beef. Cutlets. Cabinet pudding. 

Early Dinner. 
Tripe or pork. Suet pudding. 

Saturday. 

Late Dinner. 
Hot roast beef. Pancakes. 

Early Dinner. 
Roast beef. Corn-flour shape and stewed fruit. 



HOMELY FARE. 507 



Dietary for Two Weeks. 

FAMILY OF THREE PEOPLE WITH TWO SERVANTS. 

Sunday. 

Early Dinner. 

From 8 to 9 lbs. of the topside of beef, roasted. Yorkshire 
pudding. Potatoes. Greens. Fruit tart. 

Supper. 
Cold beef. Sardines. Cheese. Cold rice pudding and prunes. 

Monday. 

Luncheon and Set vants* Dinner. 
Cold beef. Potatoes. Beetroot. Cheese. 

Ijite Dinner. 

Pea soup. Rissoles of meat remaining from previous week 
(veal, mutton, and bacon). Haricot beans. Beetroot. Marmalade 
pudding. 

Tuesday. 

Luncheon and Servants Dinner. 
Cold beef. Potatoes. Milk rice pudding. 

Late Dinner. 

Sago soup. Veal cutlets. Mashed potatoes. Creens. Tartlets 
and remainder of marmalade pudding warmed. 

Wednesday. 

Luncheon and Servants' Dinner. 
Minced beef. Rolypoly pudding. Cheese. 



5oS HOMELY FARE. 

Laie Dinner, 
FiDctcd plake. Beefsteak. Greens. Potatoes. Irish puddings. 



Thursday. 

Lnnckean and Servants Dinner. 
Roast shoulder of muttoo. Greens. Potatoes. Cheese. 

Laie Dinner. 

Clear soup with macarouL Beef olives. Fried greens. Potatoes. 
Ground rice pudding. 

pRroAY. 

Lnncketm and Servants Dinner. 
Cold mutton. Potatoes. Suet pudding with raisins. 

Laie Dinner. 
Lentil soup. Muttcm curry. Orange fritters. 

Saturday. 

Lnnckeon and Setvant^ Dinner. 
Taad>in-a-hoIe with sausages. Potatoes. Cheese. 

Ljoie LHnner. 

Boiled cod. Mutt<m cutlets. Potatoes. Haricot beans. Stewed 
fruit. 

SUND.\Y. 

Eariy Dinner. 

Roast beef (topside, as before). Greens. Potatoes. Rol)^^^ 
or suet pudding with fruit. 

Supper. 

Cold beef. Brawn. Cheese. Ground rice shape. 



HOMEL V FARE. 509 

Monday. 
Luncheon and Servants Dinner, 
Cold beef. Potatoes. Suet pudding with fruit. 

Late Dinner, 
Grilled mackerel. Veal cutlets. Open jam tart 

Tuesday. 

Luncheon and Servants Dinner, 
Cold beef. Greens. Tapioca pudding. Cheese. 

Late Dinner, 

Pea soup. Slices of beef warmed in gravy with curry powder. 
Remainder of veal cutlets from Monday. Potatoes. Greens 
Stewed prunes or other fruit. Corn-flour shape. 

Wednesday. 
Luncheon and Servant^ Dinner. 

Hash of beef. Potatoes. Greens. Rice pudding with suet 
instead of eggs. 

Ijite Dinner, 

Clear soup with macaroni. Mutton cutlets. Potatoes. Greens. 
College pudding. 

Thursday. 

Luncheon and Servant^ Dinner, 

Remainder of mutton cutlets. Hash of odds and ends of meat 
left. Cheese. 

Late Dinner. 

Sago soup. Filleted plaice. Shoulder of mutton. Greens. 
Boiled rice. Remainder of college pudding warmed in slices. 



5 lo HOMEL Y FARE. 

Friday. 

LatrukiOH and Sn ixmfs D:kx£t 

Cold mutton. Potatoes. ChccscL 

Late Dinmtr. 

Boiled mackerel Hashed mutton. Pocarocs. Greens. Pan- 
cakes. 

Saturday. 

Luncheon and Servants Dinner. 
Toad-in-a-hole with sausages. Rice pudding. 

Late Dinner. 
Lentil soup. Veal cutlets. Tartlets. 



Dietary for One Week. 

TIME OF YEAR, MAY. FAMILY OF HUSBAND AND WIFE, FOIR 
CHILDREN, AND FOUR SERVANTS. 

Monday. 

Break/as/. 
Porridge. Fried bacon. Eggs. Toast. 

Luncheon and Children's Dinner. 

Leg of mutton. Potatoes. Cabbage. Rhubarb fool. Seed 
cake. 

Dinner, 

Potato soup. Rump steak. Riband potatoes. Dressed French 
beans. Stilton cheese. Dessert. 



HOMEL V FARE, 5 1 \ 

Servants Breakfast 
Bacon. 

Dinner, 

Leg of mutton (from dining-room). Potatoes. Yorkshire pud- 
ding. 

Supper, 

Cold mutton. Potatoes. Cheese. 



Tuesday. 

Breakfast. 

Porridge. A fried sole, served with lemon. Marmalade, 
Toast. 

Luncheon and Children's Dinner. 

Cold leg of mutton. Powdered potatoes. Pickles. Rice pud- 
ding. Seed cake. 

Dinner. 

Sole (maitre d'h6tel). Fried mutton cutlets. New potatoes. 
Spinach. Gooseberry tart. Cheese. Dessert. 

Servants' Breakfast. 
Bacon. 

Dinner. 

Cold leg of mutton. Potatoes. Suet pudding and treacle. 

Supper. 
Mutton pie (made from the trimmings of the cutlets). Cheese. 



Wednesday. 

Breakfast 
Porridge. Rolled tongue. Marmalade. Toast 



512 HOMELY FARE, 

Luncheon and Children's Dinner, 

Stewed brisket of beef. Haricot beans. Potatoes. Bread- 
and-butter pudding. Biscuits. 

Dinner, 

Gravy soup. Cold brisket of beef. Potatoes. Spanish onion 
salad. Souffld. Cream cheese and watercress. Dessert. 

Servants' Breakfast 
Bacon. 

Dinner, 
Beef-steak pudding. Sago milk. 

Supper, 
Cold brisket of beef Cheese. 

Thursday. 

Breakfast. 
Rolled tongue. Poached eggs. Marmalade. Toast. 

Luncheon and Children's Dinner. 

Shoulder of mutton and onion sauce. Potatoes. Cold Jioose- 
berry tart. Biscuits. 

Dinner, 

Gravy soup. Curry and rice. Mashed potatoes. Cheese 
fondu. Cream cheese. Dessert. 

Servants' Breakfast, 
Bacon. 

Dinner, 
Cold brisket of beef. Potatoes. Pickles. Rice pudding. 

Supper, 
Cold mutton. Potatoes. Cheese. 



HOMELY FARE. 513 

Friday. 

Breakfast, 
Rolled tongue. Kidneys. Black currant jam. Toast. 

Luncheon and Children! s Dinner. 

' Hashed mutton with stewed cucumber. Potatoes. Ground 
ice pudding. Plum cake. 

Dinner. 

Stewed eels with wine sauce. Fore. quarter of lamb. Mint 
auce. New potatoes. Tartlets. Cheese. Dessert. 

Setvant^ Breakfast. 
Bacon. 

Dinner. 

Liver and bacon. Potatoes. Rhubarb tart. 

Supper. 
Cold mutton and potatoes. Cheese. 



Saturday. 

Breakfast. 
Porridge. Grated tongue. Sardines. Jam. Toast. 

Luncheon a^td Children's Dinner. 
Sirloin. Browned potatoes. Gooseberry fool. Plum cake. 

Dinner. 

Vegetable soup. Cold lamb and salad. Potatoes. Dressed 
omatoes. Stilton cheese. Dessert. 



Servants Breakfast. 
Bacon. 

L L 



514 HOAfELY FARE. 

Dinner. 
Sirloin (from dining-room). Potatoes, Yorkshire pudding. 

Supper. 
Remains of cold lamb and salad. Cheese. 



SUXDAV. 

Breakfast. 
Croquettes. Eggs. Jam. Toast. 

LuncJteon. 

Cold sirloin of beef. Lettuces. Mashed potatoes. Curds and 
whey. Caviare and toast. 

Dinner. 

Vegetable soup. Cold pigeon pie. Potatoes. Crumbled eggs 
and bloaters on toast. Brandy creams. Stilton cheese. Dessert. 

Scntant^ Breakfast. 
Bacon. 

Dinner. 
Bubble-and-squeak. Potatoes. Bread-and-butter pudding. 

Supper. 
Remains of the rolled tongue. Four boiled eggs. Cheese. 



HOMELY FARE. 515 



Dietary for Three Weeks. 

FAMILY OF FOUR AND ONE MAID-SERVANT. 

Sunday. 

Breakfast. 

2 rounds of buttered anchovy toast, i lb. of cold steamed 
bacon. Tea. Bread — whole wheat-meal is the most nutritious. 

Dinner. 

7^ lbs. of roast beef. Yorkshire pudding. Potatoes. Brussels 
sprouts (from the garden). Rice pudding. 

These rice puddings are made without eggs ; they are not only 
more economical but much nicer. Use the second rice, which has 
a better flavour than the dearest. Mode. — Put enough rice to 
thickly cover the bottom of a deep pie dish, wash it thoroughly in 
three waters with a. spoon, and take out the grit and imperfections ; 
pour over it two pints of milk, and bake in a moderate oven for 
3 hours. 

Supper. 

Cold steamed bacon (the same as at breakfast). Cold open 
tart with plum jam. Potato salad. 

Mode. — Cut about 5 cold potatoes into slices ; sprinkle over them 
pepper and salt, i tablespoonful of vinegar, i of oil, and a little 
chopped parsley. 

Monday. 

Breakfast. 

3 boiled eggs. Cold bacon (the same). Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

Gold roast beef. Fried potato chips Salad (from garden) 
Apple pudding, boiled \\ hours, the crust matle from beef dripping 

L L 2 



5i6 HOMELY FARE 

Supper, 

Stewed white haricots. Mode, — The haricots require soaking 
for two days in several waters ; then put them in boiling water and 
boil until tender. This should be done in the morning, as haricots 
vary so much, some taking only one hour while others are scarcely 
cooked in three. When quite boiled, drain them from the water and 
put them in a stewpan in which a small onion cut in dice has first 
been fried. Add to this whatever gravy you may have, or, if none, 
a breakfastcupful made with Liebig. Let it all simmer together 
for about } of an hour, and serve very hot. — Tapioca pudding, 
cooked in the same way as the rice pudding ; it does not require 
washing. 

Tuesday. 

Breakfast 
I soup plate of bread and milk. Sardines. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner, 

Minced beef, the remnant of the piece of bacon, and any other 
scraps there may be, all mixed together. Potatoes. Stewed Spanish 
onions. The remainder of the apple pudding of the pre\nous day, 
put tidily into a pie dish, adding a few more apples cut into slices; 
cover it with brown sugar and a little water, to prevent burning. 
Put it into the oven, and bake for one hour. 

Supper, 

Cafd au lait (i^ pints milk). Sardines. Marmalade. Bread and 
toast. 

Wednesday. 

Breakfast, 

Boiled Naples macaroni. When drained from the water, mix 
about a teaspoonful of butter and half a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Stir round gently and quickly, and serve ver}' hot. i Ih. 
Naples macaroni will do three times for a breakfast or supper dish 
for 4 people. Tea, Sardines. 



HOMELY FARE, 



517 



Dinner . 

Best end of neck of mutton, 4 lbs. 8 ozs. Take half of this, the 
least fat end, cut it into tidy chops, taking away any superfluous 
fat ; have ready a quantity of potatoes cut in slices and two large 
3nions cut in slices. Place in a large saucepan a layer of sliced 
potatoes, then a layer of onions, dredge with pepper and salt, then 
1 layer of chops, and so on ; the potatoes should lie at the top. 
Then pour in some cold water until a little is seen at the top ; 
lUow the stew to come gradually to boiling point ; then skim, and 
put the saucepan at the side to simmer for 2 hours. This makes a 
delicious Irish stew. Bread pudding. This can be made either 
.vith milk or cider. Mode. — Put whatever pieces of bread you may 
lave into a deep dish ; pour over this sufficient cider overnight to 
;oak the bread thoroughly. The next morning beat it well to a 
Dulp with a silver fork ; add some brown sugar, pudding raisins, and 
:urrants. Butter the pie dish and put into it the pudding ; place 
nore small lumps of butter at the top ; bake it in a brisk oven for 
)ne hour. 

Supper. 

Cafe au lait. Cold bread pudding : there are generally sufficient 
jieces for two when the dinner's pudding is made. Sardines. 



Thursday. 



Breakfast, 

4 buttered eggs arranged on 4 pieces of buttered toast. Tea. 
3read. 

Dinner. 

American dish. Mode. — i lb. fresh pork, the thin streaky part 





ised for bacon. Place it in a steamer with boiling water under- 



5 1 8 HO MEL V FARE, 

neath ; when cooked, tear off the skin, cut the meat into squares ot 
about i^ inches, place it in a Nottingham jar with a cover ; add one 
onion cut very small, pepper and salt, and the water over which 
it was steamed. Cook \ pint of white haricots in another sauce- 
pan. The foregoing preparations should be made the day before 
it is wanted, as the stew must be emptied into a dish, and all the 
fat taken off before warming it. It must remain in a slow oven for 
4 hours the day before it is wanted. The day it is to be eaten the 
haricots are added to the stew, and cooked in the jar as before for 
2 hours. This is a delicious and economical dish, and can be 
varied by sometimes frying the onions first a nice brown, which 
will make it a brown instead of a white stew. If it boils again 
after the first ' boil up,' it is spoiled. 

Supper, 

Macaroni cheese. Cafe au lait. 

Mode of former. — Many people think it necessary to have 
Parmesan cheese for this dish ; ordinary American cheese will be 
found good enough. When the cheese is no longer sightly to come 
to table, cut the rind into suitable pieces and grate into a soup 
plate with all the inside of the cheese. Boil \ lb. of Naples 
macaroni in any stock you may have ; butter a flat baking-dish ; 
place in it a layer of macaroni, drained from the stock in which it 
has been cooked ; then a thick layer of grated cheese, then pepper 
and salt, and so on, until the top layer, which must be of cheese. 
Strew some grated bread, about a teaspoonful, and some little 
bits of butter, over the top. Bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. 
If there is no salamander to brown the top, heat the poker and use 
that. 

Friday. 

Breakfast. 
4 herrings. Tea. Bread. Toast. 

Dinner. 

\\ lbs. veal cutlets, i lb. steamed bacon. Potatoes. Greens 
(from garden). Apple tart. Corn-flour pudding. 

Supper. 

Cold bacon (same as at dinner). Potatoeis baked'Tn their skins. 
Cocoa. 



\ 



HO MEL V FARE. $ 1 9 

Saturday. 

Breakfast, 

Steamed bacon (same as at supper). Potatoes and greens, fried 
together k la Dorsetshire, a farm-house practice. 

Dinner, 

The other half of Wednesday's mutton (4 lbs. 8 ozs.), steamed. 
Caper sauce. Potatoes. Turnips (from garden). Pancakes. 

Supper. 

Soup. Rice pudding. Sardines. 

There is always a saucepan for bones, which are chopped and 
boiled with one onion, pepper, and salt. The liquor is put aside 
in a basin, and the fat skimmed before using ; in this way there is 
always enough for soup once, sometimes twice a week, and for 
^ravy for minces, &c. Chop one onion fine and fry in butter. 
Boil the liquor and onion together. Cut into very small dice a 
small raw potato ; put it in the tureen and pour the boiling soup 
over it. This may sometimes be varied by using very small squares 
of fried bread instead of the potato, or rice, or tapioca. The round 
tapioca looks best, and must be thoroughly cooked before mixing 
with the soup. 



SECOND WEEK. 



Sunday. 

Breakfast. 
4 rounds of buttered anchovy toast. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner, 

Roast shoulder of mutton, 5 lbs. Bread sauce. Potatoes. 
Beetroot (from garden). Swiss apple pudding. 

Mode of latter, — Grate half a piedishful of bread ; slice apples : 
butter pie-dish ; place alternate layers of bread and apple, begin- 



520 HOMELY FARE. 

ning with bread ; sprinkle sugar. Bread should be at the top, and 
bits of butter. Bake one hour. 

Slipper, 
Cold shoulder of mutton. Pickles. Open plum tart. 

Monday. 

Breakfast, 

I bowl of bread and milk. 2 poached eggs on buttered toast 
I i lbs. cold steamed bacon. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner, 

Mutton rissoles from shoulder. Mashed potatoes. Cabbage 
(from garden). Lemon roly pudding. 

Mode, — Soyer's recipe. Cut off the peel of 2 lemons very 
thin ; as, if any white remains, it will be bitter ; squeeze all the 
juice out into a small basin, taking out the pips. Chop the peel 
very fine. Add the lemon juice, and plenty of sugar, and a few 
bread crumbs or plain biscuits ground to powder ; this is to give 
the mixtiure consistency ; make paste and proceed as for a jam 
roly. The pudding should boil for 3 hours. 

Supper, 

Caf«6 au lait. 2 rounds of buttered anchovy toast. Cold 
bacon. 

Tuesday. 

Breakfast, 

Fried bacon and potatoes, or fried toast if no potatoes are 
left. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner, 

\ calfs head (medium size), boiled. Parsley and butter sauce. 
\ lb. of sausage meat made into little balls and fried. Potatoes. 
Baked batter pudding with treacle. 

Supper, 
Cocoa. Boiled macaroni, as previously described. 



k 



HOMELY FARE, 521 

Wednesday. 

Breakfast 

Pig's brains ; yi, worth is enough for 5 people. Arrange in 
layers with bread crumbs and butter ; bake J hour in a brisk oven.. 
Sardines. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner, 

I i lbs. veal cutlets. Potatoes. Beetroot (from garden). Tapioca 
pudding. \ lb. stewed primes. 

Supper. 

Soup from the bones and boilings of calf's head. Small galan- 
tine from ditto. 

Mode. — Cut from the head every piece of flesh ; cut the eye,, 
which is pretty and marbled -looking, .into tidy slices ; butter a 
small basin or jam pot ; place the nicest-looking pieces at the 
bottom and sides ; put in the rest with pepper, salt, and plenty of 
grated nutmeg ; pour over it gently some gravy from the calf's- 
head ; put a weight upon it ; bake it one hour in a slow oven ;. 
when quite cold turn it out, and it makes an exceedingly nice and 
pretty supper or breakfast dish. 

Thursday. 
Breakfast. 
3 fried eggs and bacon. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner, 

Stewed beef kidney, i \ lbs. Potatoes. Greens (from garden).. 
Buttered apples. 

Mode of Dressing Kidney, — Slice some onions and fry in butter 

a fiice brown ; place the kidney whole, after slightly frying it, in a 

Jarge earthenware jar, with the onions, 2 sliced carrots, 2 sliced 

/ potatoes, I slice lean bacon, i pint of stock or water. Stew gently 

in a slow oven for 3 hours. 

Supper, 

^d, worth of squins, sometimes called scollops, cooked in the 
same way as scalloped oysters in their shells, with breadcrumbs- 
and butter. Coffee. 



522 HO MEL V FARE. 

Friday. 
Bicakfast 
Potatoes and greens fried in bacon fat. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

5 J lbs. best end of neck of mutton; the fattest half roasted. 
Potatoes. Bread sauce. Parsnips (from garden). Lemon tart. 

Mode. — Prepare 2 lemons in the same way as for lemon pud- 
ding, and make with pastry an open tart. 

Supper. 
Cocoa. Rice pudding. Sardines. 

Saturday. 
Breakfast. 
Savour)' omelette. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

Stewed cutlets from the remaining half of Friday's mutton. 
Potatoes. Brussels sprouts (from garden). Boiled macaroni pud- 
ding. Jam. Milk. 

Mode of Stewing Cutlets. — Cut the cutlets into tidy shapes, re- 
moving all superfluous fat. Fry in a stewpan several small onions 
in butter, chopped fine-; then put in the cutlets, and pour over 
them about a pint of bone stock ; let them come gradually to boil- 
ing point, and then simmer on the side of the stove for two hours : 
if there is a great deal of gravy, tiny dumplings may be dropped 
in just as the stew is arriving at boiling point. 

The macaroni is simply boiled tender and served as it is : a 
little milk and jam may be added to taste. 

Supper. 
Cafe au lait. Welsh rarebit. 



HOMELY FARE, 523 

THIRD WEEK. 

Sunday. 

Breakfast. 

A I -lb. tin of Australian meat. Fried potatoes and greens. 
Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

4 lbs. best end of the loin of pork, roasted. Potatoes. Apple 
sauce. Bsroness pudding. 

Mode of latter. — \ lb. of suet or dripping, \ lb. of flour, J lb. of 
pudding plums and sultanas mixed. Stir into the mixture \ pint 
of milk, and boil for 4^ hours. The goodness of the pudding en- 
tirely depends upon its boiling the proper time. (Mrs. Beeton's 
recipe.) 

Supper. 

Cold Australian meat (that which was left from breakfast). 
Sliced beetroot. Cold rice pudding. 



Monday. 

Breakfast. 
4 boiled eggs. Sardines. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner. 

\ shoulder of mutton, roasted (fat end, 3 lbs.) Onion sauce. 
Bread-and-butter pudding. 

Mode of latter. — Cut about 9 slices of thin bread-and-butter ; 
butter a pie-dish ; wash a handful of currants and sultanas, dry 
them perfectly ; place a layer of bread-and-butter in the bottom of 
the dish, then sprinkle the currants and a little brown sugar, and 
nutmeg if liked. Proceed thus until the dish is full, not putting any 
currants on the top layer, as they always burn. Take one ^^^ 
and beiat it to a regular froth. Add gradually \ pint of milk, and 
pour it over the pudding ; place some small lumps of butter at the 



524 HOMELY FARE. 

top. All these milk puddings are nicer if they are prepared some 
hours before they are put into the oven. This will particularly 
apply to tapioca. 

Supper, 

Rissoles from the remains of pork of Sunday's dinner. Cafe 
au lait. 

Tuesday. 

Breakfast, 

Potted meat from the remainder of Monday's mutton. Tea. 
Bread. 

Mode, — Cut from the bone every scrap of meat ; mince, and 
then pound it in a mortar. Add i a teaspoonful of parsley, pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg. Butter a tiny mould or jam-pot ; place 
the mixture in it, and press it tightly down. Pour over it some 
gravy, jellied if possible, and put it in a slow oven for one hour. 
When cold turn it out. 

Dinner, 

2 sheep's heads au gratin. Sauce piquante. Potatoes. Carrots 
fried and then stewed in gravy. Apple pudding, boiled 4 hours. 

Supper. 
2 mutton kidneys on buttered toast. Cafe au lait. 



Wednesday. 

Breakfast. 
2 sheep's tongues, cold. Fried potatoes. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner, 

Roast loin of veal (4 lbs.) Potatoes, i lb. of steamed bacon. 
Lemon pudding. 

Mode. — Chop fine the peel of 3 lemons. Mix with the flour and 
fat and a small teacupful of brown sugar. Boil for 4^ hours. Mix 
the juice of the lemons with some sugar and water, and boil. Sene 
separately in a sauce tureen. 



HOMELY FARE, 525 

Supper, 

Soup from mutton and pork bones. Cold potatoes k la maitre 
d'hotel. Jam. 

Thursday. 

Breakfast. 

Boiled macaroni with parsley and butter (as before). Bread. 
Cocoa. 

Dinner, 

Minced veal and the remains of the bacon. Potatoes. Cabbage 
(from garden). Tapioca pudding. Stewed apples. 

Supper, 

Lentil soup. Chocolate pudding. 

Mode of Soup. — Take J lb. of lentils. Cook until quite tender. 
Pass through a coarse sieve. Chop up one Spanish onion, and 
fry it a nice brown in a stewpan. Then pour the lentil soup over 
it and boil it up together and serve very hot. This is enough for 
5 persons, costs about 4//., and is very good. 

Mode of Pudding. —i^ sticks of Menier's chocolate ; pound to 
powder. Mix with \ pint of milk. Beat to a froth 2 eggs, and 
gradually mix with i pint milk. Then gradually pour in the 
chocolate and milk. Place the mixture in a wide-mouthed jug. 
Put the jug in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir continually with a 
fork one way, and when it is beginning to thicken or set, take it 
out of the saucepan, but go on stirring for a little. As soon as the 
mixture is not too hot to break a glass dish, pour it into one, and 
serve cold. 

Friday, 
Breakfast. 

5 herrings. Tea. Bread. 

Dinner, 

Roast sirloin of beef, 5 lbs. Potatoes. Parsnips (from garden). 
Apple tart. Com -flour mould (without eggs). 

Supper. 
Q2S6 au lait. J lb. of cooked ham from pork butcher. 



526 HOMELY FARE. 

Saturday. 
Dinner, 

American stew from the remainder of the beef. Potatoes. Stewed 
haricots. Cranberr)' tart. 

Mode of American Stew, — Fry two large Spanish onions in 
butter. Mince the beef without any fat, and mix with the onions ; 
if it is getting dry pour in a little Liebig mixture, but it ought not 
to ha\e gravy ; the meat only requires to be warmed through and 
served very hot. It is a dish that the cook cannot leave, as it will 
bum. This is equally good done with the remains of salt beef. 

N.B. — Surprise may be felt at seeing apparently so much butter 
used in the foregoing recipes. The experience of the writer of this 
dietary is that if dripping is used it spoils the dish, and it is not 
eaten ; but very little butter is required, and a cheap dish is made 
palatable, consequently eaten, and consequently digested. Soyer 
says this, and he is right. The quantity of butter we use per week, 
including the small pieces required for cookery, is 2^ lbs. for five 
people. We always have five o'clock tea in the drawing-room, and 
at least three times a week people drop in, and therefore more bread- 
and-butter is required ; but we find this quantity of butter is enough. 

It is not mentioned in the menus that cheese is always on the 
table for supper, and a little butter. 

We use not quite J lb. of tea per week, and about i lb. of coffee 
per fortnight, and 2 packets of Cadbury's essence of cocoa. We 
do not make the cocoa according to the directions outside, but 
thus : I \ teaspoonsful of cocoa to every half-pint of milk. First mix 
the cocoa with a little milk until it is a smooth paste, then gradually 
add the rest of the milk. Put it in an enamelled saucepan kept 
for the purpose, and allow it to come to boiling point. Then pour 
it into a cocoa pot, and it is ready. If properly made, this is almost 
equal to a cup of chocolate. 

There is always sufficient fat from the various joints, which 
makes enough dripping for • puddings ; it must always first be 
purified. We scarcely ever have to order suet ; a properly made 
crust of dripping is preferable to chopped suet, and more digestible. 
Yeatman's baking powder is mixed with every crust. 

There is a saucepan on purpose for boiling bones, and we often 
have thick jelly from the bones ; pork and veal make the best ; and 



HOMEL V FARE, 527 

that gives sufficient jelly for the minces, galantines, and stewed 
cutlets, &c. 

Many people think it extravagant to use eggs in cookery ; the 
writer differs from them ; if one or two eggs help to make an 
eatable dish, it is an economy ; however dear eggs, milk, or butter 
may be, they are always cheaper than the cheapest meat. Where 
people can eat their food anyhowy of course it would be an ex- 
travagance to use eggs ; but if dishes are badly prepared, and not 
eaten, there is daily wastej besides the doctor's bill. 

Things cannot be done in the way we have them unless the 
mistress personally superintends. The writer is in her kitchen 
every day from ten until half-past eleven, and prepares everything^ 
but she never stands over the fire cooking, nor does anything to 
spoil her hands. Everything in the way of preparation can be 
done with a knife and fork, and gloves can be worn in the winter. 

Thej^e is a thick oak board about 1 1 inches square for cutting^ 
up meat, which is much more convenient than a dish. 

This dietary is for the month of October ; as spring advances 
one can have a few other things. Where families are large, there 
is no cheaper mode of living than large joints, but not for a small 
family. Boiled salt beef is very good, but we never have it, as one 
ought not to have a joint of less than 14 lbs. to be really good. 

A way of using up the pieces of bread is to dip them one by 
one quickly in milk, put them on a baking tin (never used for any- 
thing greasy) in a very hot oven. In five minutes they will become 
hot and crisp. When cold put them away in a biscuit box, and 
eat with cheese. If there are any unsightly pieces, they should be 
arranged to look tidy ; the pieces should not be larger than two 
mouthsful. 



^28 A HANDSOME TABLE, 



Sketch of Breakfast, Dinner, and Lunch for Four 
to Six Persons on a liberal Scale. 

Bf eakfast. 

Tea and coffee. 2 hot dishes — fish, eggs, bacon, broil, &c. ; 
2 cold dishes — ham or tongue, pie or galantine. Rolls or scones. 
Bread and toast. Honey, mamialade, and jam. Butter. A plain 
cake. Porridge. Fruit. 

Lunch, 

One joint. One entree. Cold meat — with ham or tongue always 
available both for lunch and breakfast. Fruit tart or its equivalent 
Milk pudding or its equivalent. Potatoes and one other vegetable. 
2 cakes, one with raisins, one seed or ginger. Fruit. Cheese. 
Butter. 

Dinner, 

Soup. Fish. One or two entries. Joint. 2 vegetables. Salad. 
Poultry, game, or savour>' dish. Dressed vegetable. Sweet dish. 
Sardines au parmesan or a dish of a similar character. Cheese. 
Butter. Oatcake or biscuits. Dessert. 



INDEX. 



ANC 

A NCHOVY allumettes, 259 
-^^ — butter, 259 

— cushions, 260 

— tartines, 259 

— toast, 258 

— sauce, 290 
Apple charlotte, 374 

— cheese, 416 

— jelly, 402 

— marmalade, 375 

— meringue, 370 

— miroton, 375 

— pudding, 376, 377 

baked, 378 

Swiss, 519 

Apples, buttered, 376 
Apricots k la Conde, 372 
Artichokes a la Barigoule, 31S 

— ^ la Hollandaise, 318 

— k ritalienne, 318 

— au gratin, 317 

— cream of, 319 
-globe, 317 

— Jerusalem, 317 

— mayonnaise of, 319 
Asparagus, 319 
Aspic jelly, 299 
economical, 301 



"O ABA, Polish, 387 
Baking, 60 

— wSheffield pan for, 215 
Barley water, 457 
Batter, baked, 305 

— frying, 305 
Beans, French, 321 

— flageolets, 321 

— haricot, 321 

— Windsor, 322 



BOM 

Beef, 144 

— ii la Flamande, 144 

— il la mode, 145 

— ^ la Lyonnaise, 154 

— brisket of, 145 

— Chateaubriand of, 148 

— collared, 146 

— fillet of, 146 

as an entree, 147 

braised, 147 

— hashed, 166 

— palates, 153 

— pickle for, 156 

— pie, with potato crust, 151 

— potted, 155 

— ribs of, 144 

— sirloin of, 144 

— tournedos of, 148 

— time for roasting, 59 

— salt, time for boiling, 64 

— steak or rump steak, 149 
stewed, 151 

pudding, 149 

rol's, 150 

— tea, 450 

cold, 452 

Beetroot, 357 
Beignets, 372 

— a la bonne femme, 384 
Birds, small, time for roasting, 

59 
Biscuits, devilled, 261 

— ^ la Russe, 261 
Blancmange, 364 
Boar's head, 197 
Boiling, 64 

— time table for, 64 

— meat, when both broth and 
meat are served, 65 

Bombay toast, 258 



M M 



530 



INDEX, 



BON 



Hones, 71 

Hook, consumption, 48 
Rrain palties, 168 
Hraising, 59 
Brandy cherries, 418 
Brawn, 196 

— pickle for, 196 
Bread, chapter on, 433 

- home-nnde, 435 

— in a Sheffield baking pan, 436 
Bread crumbs, 301, 302 
Bream, sea, French name for, 138 
grilled, 113 

— — sauce for, 113 

weight of, 138 

when in season, 140 

Brill, 104 

— a la ravigote, 106 

— French name for, 138 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 140 
Brioche buns, 440 
Broiling, 65 

Broth, 71, 453 

— mutton, 98 

— Scotch, 99 
Brussels sprouts, 315 
Buns, Bath, 430 

— currant, 439 

— brioche, 440 
Butter, black, 274 

— melted, 274 



CABBAGE, 313 
— balls with rice, 314 

— ies', 3U 

— red, 316 

Cake, chocolate, 440 

— fruit gingerbread, 444 

— plain, 441 

— soda, 438 

— Strasbourg, 441 

— without eggs, 442 
Cakes, chapter on, 433 

— girdle, 448 

— Indian meal breakfast, 449 

— Queen's, 443 

Calf's brains, croquettes of, 180 

— foot jelly, 404 



CHI 

Calfs liver, * pain ' of, 181 

— — imitation pate de foiegras 
of, 187 

— head, 1 79 

^ la Ste-Menehould, 180 

in a mould, 189 

Canapes of egg, 255 
Carbolic acid for larder, 22 
^ardoons, 325 
Carp, 116 

— baked, 117 

— French name for, 138 

— weight of, 138 
Carrots a I'Allemande, 348 

— a la Bechamel, 349 

— ^ la poulette, 349 

— fried, 350 

— stewed, 349 

— with green peas, 350 
Carving, 34 
Cauliflower, 323 

— au gratin, 323 

— scalloped, 324 
Celery a I'espagnole. 324 

— turnip-rooted, 324 

— salad, 358 

Char, French name for, 138 

— weight of, 138 
Chaud-froid, 237 

Chicken k la bonne femme, 213 

— a la Chabert, 212 

— ^ la Dumas, 210 

— ^ la Marengo, 211 

— ^ la Mona, 211 

— a la princesse, 204 

— ^ la Romaine, 210 

— broiled, 202 

— cigarettes k la reine, 200 

— cream of, 199 

— chaud-froid of, 237 

— curried, 208 

— entrees of, 198 

— fillets of, 201 

— fricassee of, 204, 205 

— fried, 209 

— galantine of, 213 

— how to cut up, 199 

— jelly, 453 

— mayonnaise of, 201 

— patties a la reine, 201 



IXDEX. 



531 



CHI 

Chicken pillau, 206, 207 

— pie, 215 

— pudding, 203 

— souffle of, 200 
. — to bone, 214 

— with rice, 209 
Chicory, 344 
Chillo, 171 
Cheese biscuits, 253 

— boiled, 254 

— canap^, 263 

— custard, 249 

— salad, 253 

— souffle, 250 

— stewed, 252 

— tartlets, 251 

— toasted, 252 

-— ramequins, 250, 251 

— with macaroni, 264 

— cakes, 389 
Cherries in brandy, 418 
Chestnuts, croquettes of, 388 
Chester cakes, 25 1 
Chocolate cake, 440 

— parfait au, 432 

— pudding, 525 

— - to drink, 454, 456 
Cigarettes k la reine, 200 
Civet de li^vre, 227 
Cocked hats, 448 
Cockles, when in season, 142 
Cod, French name for, 138 

— sauce for, 107 

— sliced, 107 

— to boil, 107 

— weight of, 1 38 

— when in season, 140 
Colcanon, 316 
Compote of pears, 373 
Consomme, 74, 76 
Cook, dress of the, 56 
Cookery, defects in, 52, 53 

— chief operations of, 58 
Crab, when in season, 142 

— mock, 253 
Crayfish, in soup, 90 

— when in season, 142 
Cream, 360 

— in small pots, 362 

— chocolate, 362 



UIN 

Cream, strawberry, &c., 363 

— velvet, 363 
Cr^me d*orange, 420 
Croquettes, 242 

— of chestnut, 388 
Croustades, 302 

— aux truffes, 267 
Croutes aux abricots, 371 

— aux fraises, 371 
Crodtons, 301, 302 
Cucumber, 357 

— and beef marrow, 328 
Cup, chablis, cider, &c., 421 
Curried eggs, 257 

— kabobs, 240 

— v^e tables, 350 
Curry, 239 

— Australian meat, 241 

— fish soup, 81 

— fish, sauce for, 279 

— - hake, 126 

— lobster, 124 

— oyster, 134 
Custard, 360, 362 

— cheese, 249 

— for ices, 427 

— for ice pudding, 424 
— puddings, 361 

— for soup, 296 
Cutlets, braised, 163 

— - lamb, 172, 173 

— mutton, 160 

for an invalid, 454 

— pigeon, 219 

— Prince of Wales*, 163 

— pork, 190, 191 
- rice, 244 

— stewed, 164, 522 

— veal, 177, 178 



"TJAB, French name for, 138 
■^^ — when in season, 140 
Dampfnudeln, 382 
Devilled biscuits, 261 
Dietaries for small households, « 

505, 528 
Dinner, ordering of, 14, 31 

— serving, and waiting at, 3 1 

— servants at, 32 



M M 2 



532 



INDEX. 



DIN 



\ 



Dinners, menus for, throughout 
the year, 466 

— small menus for, 502 

— for small households, 505, 
528 

Dinner party, art of giving a, 3 

— guests at a, 4 

— precedence at a, 6 

— number of servants at a, 33 
Dinner table, 7, 8 

— arrangement of, 35 

— floral decorations for, 38 
Dishing up, 28 

— silver border for, 29 
Dormers, 247 

Dory, John, the, 106 

— French name for, 138 

— sauce for, ic6 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 140 
Drink for an invalid, 452 
Dripping, to clarify, 63, 292 
Duck, 217 

— time for roasting, 59 

— braised, 218 

— devilled, 220 

— a la St. Michel, 218 

— wild, 234 
Dumpling, suet, 306 



"PELS, 119 

^^ — French name for, 138 

— fried, 119 

— collared, 120 

— stewed, 120 

— i la poulette, 120 

— when in season, 140 
Eggs, 254 

— choice of, 359 

— on china, 255 

— canapes of, 255 

— broken, with asparagus 
points, 255 

— in cases, 256 

— brouill^s 4 rindienne, 256 

— curried, 257 

— a la St. James, 257 

— for sauce, 270 

— ba'ls for garnishing, 299 



FRY 

Eggs and sprue, 320 
Endive, dressed, 330 
English meaning of French 

names of dishes, 462, 463^ 

464 , 

Espagnole or brown sauce, 272 
Expenditure, 45, 49, 50 
— different scales of, 47, 48 



"piLLET of beef, sec Beef 
•"■ Fish, chapter on, loi 

— breakfast, 126 

— different kinds of, in season,. 
140 

— kitcherie, 262 

— kettle, copper, 105 

— pudding, 123 

— salt, a la Lyonnaise, 114 

— a la bonne femme, 1 14 

— to clean, 10 1 

— to cook, 102 

— with its own sauce, 122 

— for curry soup, 81 
Flageolets, 321 
Flavouring, 53 

— herb powder for, 307 
Flounder, French name for, 139" 

— as water souche, 118 

— when in season, 140 
Flour, boiled, for sauces, 273 

— for bread and cakes, 433 

— to brown, 273 

Flowers for the dinner table,. 

38 

Fondu, 249 

Fowl, to bone a, 214 

— pillau, 206 

— time for roasting, 59 
^— for boiling, 65 

French names of dishes witlr 
English equivalents, 461, ifA, 
463, 464 

Friar's omelette, 369 

Fricandeau of veal, 175 

Fruit syrup, 417 

Frying, 61 

— temperature required for, 6i 

— wire basket for, 63 
Frying pan, 62 



INDEX, 



GAL 



/^ALANTINE of chicken, 
^^ 213 

— small, 521 

— of sucking pig, 195 

— of veal, 186, 213 
•Game, 222 

— chaud-froid of, 237 

— to keep from tainting, 222 

— to roast, 222 

— pie, 236 

— omelette souffl^e of, 238 
Game larder, charcoal in, 20 
Garnishes, 293 

— floating for soup, 295 

— i la financiere, 298 
Gebackene Hiihner, 2S>) 
Gimblettes, 443 
Oingerbread, 444 

— thick, 445 

— nuts, 445 
Glaze, 303 

— pot for, 303 
Goose, 217 

— time for roasting, 59 
Grayling, French name for, 

139 

— size of, 138 
Gridiron, 66 
Gudgeons, 115 
Ouisado, 228 
Gurnard, 107 

— French name for, 139 

— sauce for, 107 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 140 



XTADDOCK, stuffed, 119 
^^ — weight of, 138 

— French name for, 139 

— when in season, 140 
Ha^s, 167 

Hake, 126 

— when in season, 140 
Ham, broiled, 192 

— steamed, 192 

— to boil, 193 

— to cure, 193 

— to pickle, 193 

— time for boiling, 64 



533 
ISl 

Hare, fillets of, 228 

— ju^ed, 227 

— to bone a, 226 

— time for roasting, 59 
Haricots, 321 

— stewed, 516 
Hen's milk, 458 

Herb powder for flavouring, 307 
Herring, 117 

— French name for, 139 

— sauce for, 117 

— when in season, 140 

— balls, 118 
Hominy, 342 

— boiled, 342 

— croquettes, 344 

— fried, 343 

— for garnishing, 297 
Household, mans^ement of a 

small, 526 

— sketch for daily meals in a, 
528 



T CE, chocolate cream, 426 
"'■ — Bavaria cream, 429 

— different sorts of cream, 429 

— pineapple cream, 426 

— tea cream, 428 

— Chinese, 429 

— almond water, 431 

— chocolate water, 430 

— cinnamon water, 430 

— coffee water, 430 

— ginger water, 429 

— pineapple water, 430 

— pistachio water, 431 
Ice machine, 423 
Ices, chapter on, 422 

— fruit, 425 

— fruits for, 425, 427, 428 

— list of cream, with accom- 
panying water, 431 

— to be eaten alone, 431 
Indian com porridge, 342 
Indian meal break^t cakes, 

450 
Invalids, cookery for, 450 
Irish stew, 166 
Isinglass, home-made, 102 



534 



INDEX. 



JAM 

JAMS, 413 

J Jelly, apple, 402 

— barberr)*, 414 

— black currant, as a sweet 
dish, 401 

— bread, 457 

— calfs foot, 404 

— chicken, 453 

— fruit, 412 

- grape, 413 

- orange, 402 

— prune, 401 

— quince, 414 

— with liqueur flavour, 406 



T^ABOBS, curried, 240 
''^ — Turkish, 169, 170 
Kalolmar, 248 
Kidneys, dressed, 521 

— grilled, 168 

— sautes, 169 
Kiselle, 371 

Kitchen, cleanliness in the, 19 

— utensils, 23 

lists of, 24 

Kitcherie, 262 
Kohlrabi, au gratin, 329 

— mashed, 328 

— steamed, 328 
Kottbullar, 248 
Koumiss, substitute for, 459 
Kromeskis, 243 
Kiigelhiipfe, 442 



T AMB cutlets, 172, 173 
■■^ — epigramme of, 1 71 

— time for roasting, 59 
Lam perns, 127 

— French name for, 139 
Lampreys, 127 

— French name for, 139 
Lard, to purify, 291 
Larder, 20, 21, 23 
Larks, salmis of, 221 
Leche Crema, 384 
Leeks, stewed, 334 
Lemonade, 459 
Lemon sponge, 368 



MEN 

Lentils, 323 
'Lettuce in stock, 329 
-- stewed, 330 
Leveret, 229 

— time for roasting, 59 
Liebig's Extractum Camis, 45 1 
Liver and bacon, 181 
Lobster curry, 124 

— cutlets, 124 
sauce for, 125 

— French name for, 143 



"M ACARONI, 263 
— au gratin, 264 

— boiled, 516 

— cheese, 264, 518 
- timbale, 265 

— with tomatoes, 264 
Mackerel, broiled, 108 

— a la maitre d*h6tel, 109 

— French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 140 
Madeleines, 388 
Maigre soups, 95 

— sole 4 la Normande, 112 

— sturgeon dressed as creme de 
volaille, 126 

Mannalade, orange, 415 

— pineapple, 416 

— pudding, 395 
Marrow patties, 154, 155 
Mayonnaise of artichokes, 319 

— of chicken, 201 

Meat, Australian curried, 241 

— broken, 46 

— killing and hanging of, 13, 
17, 20, 21 

— potted, 524 

— minced, 247 

— tea and drinks, 45 1 , 452 

— tinned, with rice, 241 
Mehlspeise, 383 
Menus, chapter on, 460 

— explanation of names, 462 

— for January, 466 ; February, 
469 ; March, 472 ; April, 475 ; 
May, 478 ; June, 481 ; July, 
484; August, 487; September, 



INDEX, 



53? 



MEN 

490 ; October, 493 ; Novem- 
ber, 496 ; December, 499 

Menus, twenty-four, for small 
dinners, 502 

Meringue, apple, 370 

Milk digested, 459 

Mincemeat, 406, 407 

— pies, 407 
Minced meat, 247 
Muffins, 437 ; rice, 438 
Mullet (red), 108 

— French name for, 139 

— - en papillotes, 108 

- sauce for, 108 

- when in season, 140 

- weight of, 138 

Mullet (grey), when in season, 
140 

— weight of, 138 
Mushrooms, 331 

— for garnishing, 298 
Mussels, when in season, 142 
Mustard, 271 

Mutton, 157 

— broth, 98 

- chops, 165 

with sauce piquante, 165 
boned leg of, 157 
- braised leg of, 158 

— roast, a lavenaison, 158 

- neck of, with rice, 159 
steak and potato, 160 
cutlets, 160 

haricot, 164 

— hashed, 166 

— time for roasting, 59 

— time for boiling leg of, 64 

— and fowl pillau, 206 

— * Chillo,' 171 



•XTEAPOLITAN cake, 386 
^^ Norwegian Lax, 104 
Nottingham jar, 59 
Nudeln au parmesan, 252 



Hh UFS brouilles a I'lndienne, 

^^^ 256 

Olives for garnishing, 298 



PAR 

Olla podrida, 239 
Omelettes, 254 
Omelette, friar's, 369 

— oyster, 132 

— soufflee, 366 
- of game, 238 

— with tomatoes, 346 
Onions, 332 

— 4 la poulette, 334 

— baked, 333 

— for garnishing, 297 

— glazed, 333 
Orange baskets, 403 

— creme d', 420 
gin, 420 

--- jelly, 402 

— marmalade, 415 

-to preserve whole, 415 
Oven for pastry, 69 
Ox-cheek, 152 
Oxtail, 152 

— sauce for, 152 
Oysters, 127 

— au parmesan, 136 

— a la Villeroi, 134 

— curried, 134 
-- devilled, 135 

— en papillotes, 137 

— forcemeat of, 135, 156 

— fried, 137 

— kabobs of, 136 

— kromeskis of, 127 

— loaves of, 128 

— omelette of, 132 

— patties of, 133 
Oyster sauce, 132, 291 

— sausages, 131 

— scalloped, 131 

— stewed, 128 

— toast, 129 

— vol -au- vent of, 130 
— when in season, 142 

— with macaroni, 128 



pALATES, beef, 153 

■*" — a la Lyonnaise, 154. 

Panada, 456 

Pancakes, 385 

Parfait au chocolat, 432 



536 



INDEX. 



PAR 



Paisley, fried, 296 
Putridge, chaitrense of, 229 

— with cabbage, 230 

— salmis of, 232 

— souffle of, 250 

— time for roasting. 59 
Paste for raised pies, 66 

— for timbales, 67 

— pafi:6S 
Pastnr, 66 

— Genoese, 3S1 

Fate de foie gras, imitation, 187 
Patties a la reine, 201 

— cold bread, 260 
reas,33S 

- and carrots, 350 

— - and ham, 340 

— dressed. 339 

— stewed. 339 
Pease podding, 306 
Perch, as water soucbe. 118 

— French name for, 139 

- m eight of, 138 
IVriwinkles, season for, 142 
Perquisites, 46 
Pheasant a la soabise, 231 

— a Li St-Cfoad, 231 

— salmis of, 232 

— time for roasting, 59 
Pickle for beef, 156 

— for brawn, 196 

— i\x ham, 193 

— for pork, 194 

— for tongue, 156 
Pie, beef, 151 

— game, 236 

— pigeon, 219 

— with potato cmst, 215 
Pigeon cutlets, 219 

— aux petits pois, 220 

— pie, 219 

Pig's feet ^ la Ste-Menehould, 

191 
Pike, French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 
Pilchard, 118 

— how to distinguish from her- 
ring, 118 

— French name for, 139 

— when in season, 140 



PUD 

Pillau, plain fowl, 206, 207 

— mutton and fowl, 206 
Pineapple marmalade, 416 
Plaice, French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 140 
Plover, 235 
Polenta, 340, 341 

Pollack, French name for, 139 
Polio con arroz, 209 
Pork, 190 

— American way, 517 

— cutlets, 190, 191 

— fresh, when in season, 14 

— pickle for, 194 

— roast spare rib, 190 

— time for roasting, 59 

— time for boiling, 65 
Potato salad, 358, 515 

— balls, 336 

— chips, 338 

Potatoes, a la maitre dTiotel, 337 

— new, 335 

— old, 335 

— poff, 337 

— for garnishing, 297 

- savoury, 336 

— to boil, 334 

— with truffles, 356 
Potted beef, 155 

— meat, 524 
Poultry, chapter on, 198 

— devilled legs of, 221 
Prawns, when in season, 142 
Preserves, chapter on, 412 
Profiterolles as a sweet dish, 389 

— for soup, 295 
Prunes, gateau de, 401 

— jelly, 401 
Ptarmigan, 235 
Pudding, amber, 393 

— bakewell, 396 

— baroness, 523 

— baked apple, 399 

— bread and butter, 397, 523, 

524 

— bread, 517 

— caramel, 392 

— chocolate, 397, 525 

— Christmas, 408 



INDEX, 



537 



PUD 
Pudding, Eve's, 394 

— fig, 394 

— Genoese, 398 

— German, 394 

— Irish, 395 

— ice, 424 

— Indian com, 396 

— Lady Raglan, 392 

— lemon, 520, 525 

— marmalade, 395 

— k la mousseline, 399 

— Newark, 393 

— pease, 306 

— poor man*s, 400 

— plum, 408 

— potato, 391 

— rice without eggs, 515 

— sauces for, 409 

— semmel, 390 

— sago, 398 

— Snowdon, 392 

— suet, 306 

— Sunday, 399 

— Swiss apple, 519 

— tapioca, 398 

— the children's, 376 

— Yorkshire, 304 
Puddings, 361 
Puff paste, 389 
Punch, 419 

— milk, 419 

— roman, 420 
Purees, 91 



QUAILS, 233 
— compote of, 233 
Quenelles, 183, 184 

— for soup, 73 

— of whiting, 113 



"D ABBITS, 215 

"*-^ — barbecued, 217 

— boudins of, 216 

— grenadins of, 216 
Ramequin a la Genevoise, 251 
Ramequins a la Raymond, 250 
Ravioli, 245 
Refrigerator, 27 



SAL 



Restorative, a, 458 
Rice cutlets, 244 

— cakes, 379 

— croquettes, sweet, 379 

— gateau of, k la bourgeoise, 380- 

— a la Milanaise, 268 

— muffins, 438 . 
— patties, 244 

— pudding with apples, 381 

— savoury, 268 

— to boil, 304 

— Turkish, 267 
Rissoles, 242 
Roasting, 58 

— time-table for, 59 
Rod Gro, 370 
Rolls, Vienna, 436 

— French, 437 
Roux for sauces, 27 1 
Rump steak, 149 

— stewed, 151 

— pudding, time for boiling, 6$; 



C ALAD, chapter on, 351 
*^ — k la Casaqova, 265 

— k la jardiniere, 356 

— beetroot, 357 

— celery, 265 

— celery and truffles, 358 

— cucumber, 357 

— July, 355 

— Madame's, 354 

— potato, 358, 515 

— potato and truffles, 356* 

— Russian, 266, 354 

— winter, 356 
Salmis, of game, 232 

— of larks, 221 

— of snipe, 234 

— of woodcock, 234 
Salmon, curry, 103 

— French name for, 139- 

— Norwegian Lax, 104 

— sauce for, 103 

— steaks, 103 

— tinned, 104 

— to boil, 103 

- when in season, 142. 

- weight of, 138 



538 

SAl, 

Salsify, or mock oysicr^i, 327 

- frie<l, 327 
Sandwiches, 307 

Indian, 240 
Sanlines au parmesan, 262 

en papillote, 263 

French name for, 139 
Sauce, 269 

apple, 2S7 

a la Milanaise, 286 

- a la pimletie, 276 

- a la d'l'xcUes, 276 

- a la Ste-Meneh.)uld, 277 
a la matelote. 2S0 

a la Tariare, 2S0 

- anchovy, 290 
apricot, 41 1 

- brown. 272 
brown caper, 281 

- Beamai>e, 279 
-- - Bigarado, 2S9 

- bread, 290 

— - cauliflower, 2S1 

— chestnut, 2S2 

— Crarina, 278 

— Chaude.iu, 410 

— l>uich, 274 
egg, 2S1 

— fair maid's, 27S 

— fennel, 275 

- for tish, Jit' Fi>h 
fruit, 410 

— fumel of jjame, 2SS. 28 ) 

— gxx»sebern-. 2S7 

— horse-radish, 2S2 

- hard. 411 
Italian. 291 
m.'^^•onn^.i"^^. 28^ 

— mint. 200 
mintpoix. 27S 
ovsier. I ^2, 201 
•jXirsiey, 275 
lVrlj;;;ueux, 277 

- pviree of :r.ushr^x>i«. 2S6 

— Rtmoul.v!e, 277. 27S 

— Ro":^n, 279 

— s.^ge. 200 

— soubise, 2^5 

— sjTjp, 410 
:-r:,ir. 284 



IXDEX. 



SOU 

Sauce, tomato, 288 

— Villeroi, 275 

— white, 272, 27 :? 
--- white caper, 281 

-^ whipped swc^t, 41 1 

— wine, 409 

Sauces for puddings, 409 

Saute-ing, 60 

Saute-pan, 61 

Scollops, when in season, 142 

Scones, 446 

— crisp brown, 447 

— plain water, 447, 448 

— cocked hats, 448 
Scotch woodcock, 258 
Shad, 116 

— French name for, 139 
-- when in season, 142 

— with sorrel, 116 
Sheep's brains, 107, 16S 
Shrimps. 125 

— when in season, 142 
Sippets, 301 

Skate, 106 

- French name for, 139 

— sauce for, 106 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
Smelts, 123 

— French name for, 139 

- size of. 13S 

— s:ewevi, 124 

when in season. 142 
Snipe, 235 

- salmis of. 234 
Sole, a Fanrore, 1 10 

^ au gratin. no 

- a la Tiouviilc, m 

— - a la Xorman.le, in 

— fillets of, au gra in, 1 1 2 
— a la Orh. 113 
Fr^dnch name for, 139 
fried, 109 

- M-eigh: of, 13S 
when in season^ 142 

Sorwl. 344 
SoQche, water, iiS 
Sounle, chkkes:, ioo 

— - chocoUte, 567 



IXDEX. 



sou 

Souffle, iced savoury, 246 \ 
omelette, 366 
au Parmesan, 250 

- partridge, 230 

- steamed, 368 

- - sweet, 365 

- tomato, 345 
Soup, 70, 71 

- bonne femme, 89 

— bisque. 90 

- clear, 74, 76 

— clear grouse, 83 

- clear hare, 83 
clear lettuce, 78 

— - cheap, 100, 519 

cockie-leekie, 85 
egg, 89 

— fish curry, 81 

- giblet, 93 

- hare, 82 

- hotch-potch, 94 

- Italian pastes, with, 88 

— - Jenny Lind, 89 

Julienne, 76 

— "lentil, 525 

— lettuce, 78 

— - mock turtle, 84 

- mulligatawny, 79, 80 

- mutton broth, 98 

— nudel, 90 

— - oxtail, 85 

— ordinary, 75 

— - pea, green, 86, 87 

- winter, 87 

Soup, potage brunoise, 77, 78 

- purees, 91 

— - puree of tomato, 93 

— puree of turnip, 93 

— puree of game, chicken, or 
rabbit, 98 

— quenelles for, 74 

— Queen's, 91 

— Russian, 79 

- Scotch broth, 99 

— to clear, 75 

— turtle, 83 

— vegetables for, 73 

— - venison, 83 

with bread, 76 
Soupe maigre, 95 



539 

TEN 

Soupe maigre, milk of almonds, 

95 
summer, 96 

cheap, 96 

lentil, 97 

white, 97 

— - pearl barley, 98 
Spinach, 344 

- in German fashion, 345 
Spit, cradle, 26 
Sprat, French name for, 139 

- when in season, 142 

— size of, 138 
Sprue and eggs, 320 
Stew, Irish, 517 

— - American, 526 
Stock, 71 

Stock pot, 72, 73 
Stove, cooking, 23 
Stuffing, for meat, 293 

— for fish, 293 

— for turkey, 294, 295 

— for rabbit, 294, 295 

— for veal, 294 
Sturgeon, 126 

— French name for, 139 

— for maigre days, 126 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
Sucking pig, 195 

galantine of, 195 

Suet, to clarify, 292 

— dumpling, 306 

— pudding, 306 
Supreme de volaille, 201 
Sweetbreads, 185 

Sweet dishes, chapter on, 359 
Syrup of gum, 459 



'T*ABLE, decoration and ar- 
-*" rangement of, 35 
Tagliarini, 265 
Tapioca and cream, 454 
Tart, raspberry and rusk, 369 
Tartelettes k la Sefton, 251 
Teal, devilled, 220 

— roast, 234 

Tench, as water souche, 118 

— French name for, 139 



540 



INDEX. 



TEX 



YEA 



Tench, weight of, 139 
Timbales a la Pahlen, 246 

— of macaroni, 265 
Tipsy cake, 386 
Toast, dr>', 457 
Tomatoes, dressed, 345 

— a la proven^ale, 346 

— omelette of, 346 

— souffle of, 345 

— with' Indian corn, 346 
Tomato, preserve of green, 417 
Tongue, pickle for, 156 

— pressed, 156 
Trout, fried, 121 

— au bleu, 121 

— croquettes of, k la russe, 122 

— French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 
Trout, sea, 122 

— French name for, 139 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
Truffles, 332 

— in salad, 356, 358 
Turkey, time for boiling, 65 

— time for roasting, 59 

— to bone a, 214 
Turbot, au gratin, 105 

— French name for, 139 

— sauce for, 105 
-- to boil,' 104 

— weight of, 138 

- when in season, 142 
Turnips, au gratin, 347 

— ^ la poulette, 348 

— ^azed, 347 

— mashed, 348 

— puree of, 347 
Turnip-tops, 315 



TJTENSILS, kitchen, 23 



'WKAL, chap»er on, 174 
— broth, 453 
cream of, 182 
- - cutlets, 177 



Veal, fillet of, 174 

— fricandeau of, 1 75 

— galantine of, 186 

— jellied, 186 

— killing of, 14 

— loin of, 174 

— - marble, 187 

— - scallop, 179 

— - steak, 1 76 

— tendrons of, 178 

— time for roasting, 59 
Vegetables, chapter on, 309 

— curried, 350 

— - for purees, 92 

— for soup, 73 

— washing, 312 
Vegetable marrow, 326 

— au gratin, 326 

— k la Provengale, 326 
Venison, haunch of, 223 

— hashed, 224 

— neck of, 224 

— pasty, 224 
Vin^jar, 270 
Vol-au-vent of ojrster, 13a 



WAGES. 46 
^^ Water souche, 118 
Whelks, season for, 142 
WTiitebait, 115 

— French name for, 139 

— size of, 138 

Whiting, fillets of, k la Orlyr 
114 

— French name for, 139 

— quenelles of, 113 

— sauce for, 114 

— weight of, 138 

— when in season, 142 
WTiite wine whey, 458 
Widgeon, 234 

Wine, 9 
Woodcock, 234 



VT'EAST, for bread, 434 
^ Yorkshire pudding, 304 



Spottiswoode ^ Co., Ptinters^ New-street Square, Londtm. 



S\ 



