
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



430ui I ,• 



• T 



w .-- 



^ 



6. V' 




Newl)ispensatioa. . 



1 fi 




^oc ^^^'i-.^.^^^ 




FROM 



THE BUSINESS 

H ISTORICAL 

SOCIETY iNC 




THE GIFT OF 



The Heirs of 
Oeorge 0. Dempsey 



TRANSFERRED 

TO 




THE 



WINE QUESTION 



IN THE LIGHT OF THE 



NEW DISPENSATION. 



BY 

JOHN ELLIS, M.D., 

AUTHOR OF " THE AVOIDABLE CAUSES OP DISEASE, INSANITY, AND 

DEFORMITY," "AN ADDRESS TO THE CLERGY," "SKEPTICISM AND 

DIVINE REVELATION," " PURE WINE, FERMENTED WINE." ETC. 



** Must signifies the same as wine, viz., truth derived from 
the good of charity and love.^* ^^Falses from evit may be 
compared to such wine and strong drinks as induce drunk- 
enness," — Emanuel Swedenborg's A. E. (695 and 1035). 



NEW YORK: 
PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR. 

1882. 



Srrc 4J'f T' Y- ' 



HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 
FROM THE HEIRS OF 
aEORGE C. DEMPSEY 



TTie Author has not obtained a " Copyright^* on this 
book. It is therefore free to all. He has written it with 
no expectation of making money ; it has been electrotypedy 
and if any one, for any purpose, desires to print an edition 
of not less than one thousand volumes, the author will 
cheerfully give the use of his plates, for he has had but one 
desire in publishing it, and that is to benefit his fellow-man. 



Qft^ff 

The Heirs eff 

Qeerge C. Demptey 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

PREFACE, 5-8 

CHAPTER I. 

PHILOSOPHY QF TIJE N?W CHURCH BEARING , UPON THE SUBJECT OF 
INTOXICATING DRINKS. 

Does Alcohol Correspond to Faith Alone ? • • . , , 9-20 
CHAPTER II. 

IS ALCOHOL A POISON ? 

Consequently is Fermented Wine, owing to the Presence of Alcohol, 
also a Poison ? — Is it Wrong for a New Churchman to Teach that 
Fermented Wine and other Intoxicating Liquids are Poisons? — 
Moderation Fallacy— Action of Alcohol on the Mind, , ^^"37 

CHAPTER III. 

TWO KINDS OF WINE RECOGNIZED IN THE WORD OF THE LORD 
AND IN THE WRITINGS OF THE NEW <;HURCH. 

One Kind Unfermented and Unintoxicating, and the Other Fermented, 

or Leavened, and Intoxicating, . • .. • • 3^44 

CHAPTER IV. 

TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, TWO KINDS OF MUST, AND TWO KINDS OF 
WINE— ON^ GOOD AND THE OTHER BAD. 

New Wine in Old Bottles— Two Kinds of Strong Drink, . . 45-58 
CHAPTER V. 

WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

Ancient Methods of Preserving Wine, so as to Prevent Fermentation 
— Preserving Wine Unfermented by Boiling — Present Customs in 
Wine-Growing Countries — Preservation of Unfermented Wine by 
Evaporation to Comparative Dryness — ^Preserving Wine by Keep- 
ing Cool in Springs, Rivers, and Cisterns — ^Filtering Wine to 
Prevent Fermentation — Preservation of Wine by the use of Sweet 
Oil — Preservation of Wine by Fumigation — Modern Unfermented 
Wine, • « « « « ^ • . j ; . 59-83 



4 CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER VI. PAGE 

DRUNKENNESS IN WINE-GROWING AND BEER-CONSUMING COUNTRIES. 

The Testimony of Residents and Travellers, . , . , S3-87 

CHAPTER Vn. 

THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER" AND INTOXICATING WINE. 

Falses from Evils — Intoxicating Wines and Strong Drinks, . 88-97 

CHAPTER .VIII> * ' 

THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" AND THE WINE QUESTION. 

An Original Idea — Does Fermentation Produce Unfermented Bread 

and Wine? . . . . .... . 98-121 

CHAPTER IX. 

"WORDS FOR THE NEW CHURCH" AND THE WINE AND "WHISKY" 

QUESTION. 

The " Academy of the New Church," as Represented by the Above 

Serial, 122-148 

CHAFFER X. 

THE COMPARISONS OF KMANUEL SWEDENBORG. 

The Academy's Interpretations of the Same in its Serial, • 149-158 
CHAPTER XI. 

A NEW VIEW. 

Wine in the Most Ancient Church-^ Vinegar, • • • 1 59-1 64 

CHAPTER XII. 

COMMUNION WINE. 

Wine Used by Our Lord and His Disciples in the Original Institution 
of the Sacrament of the Most Holy Supper — How shall we Pre- 
pare our Communion Wine, . . , , . , 165-192 

' ' CHAPTER XIII. 

PROHIBITION. 

Opinion of Governor St. John, of Kansas — Swedenborg's Views, 193-200 
CHAPTER XIV. 

FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 
Swedenborg's Formula for Sacramental Bread, and His Ideas as to 
the Wine Used by the Lord and His Disciples — Importance of 
Organizing — Our Periodicals Should be Renovated and Filled 
with New Life — Great Reforms are Rarely Commenced by the 
Clergy, . . . ^ ^ ^ ^ , ^ . 201-228 



PREFACE. 



It is doubdess known to most New Church readers that the 
writer has published a tract on "Pure Wine — Fermented Wine, 
and other Alcoholic Drinks." This tract is still in print, and 
will he sent with pleasure to any reader of the Writings of 
Emanuel Swedenborg who has not seen it. The author 
has sent a copy of it to all whose names he has been able 
to obtain, and will continue to send it to such additional 
names as are forwarded to him, feeling that in no other way 
can he do as much service fpr the cause of the New Church 
with his time and money, as in spreading a knowledge of the 
truth on this subject among the members of the Church, the 
receivers of its doctrines, and the readers of Swedenborg's works, 
A letter addressed to Dr. John Ellis, New York City, will be quite 
sure to reach him. He also desires th^t a copy of the present 
work should be found in the library of every New Church family 
in the land. He would rather not receive the names of those 
who are not readers, for the world outside of the recognized 
New Church is too wide for his limited means. It has been 
suggested that the tract on "Pure Wine," etc., would be a 
good tract to send to the clergymen of the various denomi- 
nations to invite their attention, not only to the cause of 
Temperance, but also to that of the New Church. But the 
writer does not feel th^t that tract is exactly adapted for 
this purpose, owing to the controversial character of some 
parts of it; and he does uot desire to publish to the outside 



6 PREFACE. 

world, that so many of his New Church brethem advocate and jus- 
tify the use of intoxicating drinks, and in this volume he pur- 
posely withholds the names of all such, for he is sure that within a 
very few years they will thank him for having done so. But he 
fully recognizes the truth, that the light thrown on this subject 
by the Writings of Swedeiiborg, especially by the philosophy 
taught therein, and by the science of correspondences, is so 
clear, that the circulation of a suitable tract on this ques- 
tion cannot but be very useful in calling attention to the 
Writings, in which such clear views and insight into such a 
practical subject are to be found. Therefore, he hopes to prepare 
or cause to be prepared, at no very distant day, a tract for this 
purpose. Several articles have appeared in the New Jerusalem 
Magazine y and a lengthy review of the tract on the wine question 
in Words for the New Church, all in opposition to the views set 
forth in our tract ; but in none of them, with but a single excep- 
tion, has any serious attempt been made to meet the question in 
accordance with the philosophy and science of correspondences, 
set forth in the writings of the New Church. The writers have 
relied on comparisons made by Swedenborg between spiritual 
conflicts in man's regeneration and the physical clarifica- 
tion of wine by fermentation ; and upon assumptions which have 
come down to us from the dark ages, unquestioned seriously, by 
New Church writers and teachers; the latter apparently for- 
getting what the Lord said : "Behold, I make all things new." 
Fortunately, while New Churchmen have been, as it were, 
asleep, many of the most intelligent men of the surrounding 
churches, observing the pernicious results which flow from the 
use of intoxicating drinks, have taken hold of this subject 
in sober earnestness. They have not only examined the Sa- . 



PREFACE. 7 

ered Scriptures in the original languages in which they were 
written and have been preserved, to find what they actually 
teach upon this subject, but they also have diligently searched 
the ancient records of Bible lands, as well as the traditions and 
present usages; until now a mass of testimony has been 
accumulated, which is completely overwhelming, and fbily 
so^akis tiie late Brof^sor George Bush's testimony that there 
is nothing in the Sacred Scriptures which will justify the use 
of fermented wine as a beverage, and that the whole Christian 
world will be compelled, at no distant day, to come to this 
conclusion. When, a year or two ago, the writer, in re- 
sponse to an article advocating the use of fermented wine in 
the New Jerusalem Messenger ^ alluded to the above testimony, 
making quotations from ancient authors and recent writers, and 
calling attention to the fact that neither the philosophy of the 
New Church, the science of correspondences, nor the express 
teachings of Swedenborg, would justify the use of either fer- 
mented wine or other intoxicating drinks, a host of writers rushed 
to the rescue of intoxicating drinks, and the New Church periodi- 
cals, were plied with their communications ; the Messenger hastily 
closed the discussion, giving no opportimity for a reply to the 
assumptions and arguments of the advocates of fermented wine. 
The New Jerusalem Magazine, after admitting several articles jus- 
tifying the use of fermented wine, declined to admit any reply. 
When the tract on "Pure Wine — Fermented Wine, and other 
Intoxicating Drinks " made its appearance, the placid waters of 
the Academy of the New Church, as manifested in its serial, 
Words for the New Church , were moved to their very depths, as 
the reader will see from the quotations which we intend to make 
from its pages. Well, the truth upon this momentous subject, so 



8 PREFACE. 

important to such vast multitudes of our people, and especially 
to every New Churchman, is abroad in the land. In this age of 
the printing-press it cannot be hid ; the truth is mighty, and will 
prevail, sooner or later, even though it is excluded from our 
present New Chiurch periodicals. 

' The writer will simply intimate to some of his reverend critics, 
that among New Church laymen, and even among literary men 
outside of the New Church, to say nothing of other Christians, 
it is not regarded as either honorable, just, or right to criticise a 
work without first having carefully read it, and without paying 
some attention to the views of the author. It is manifest that if 
three of the critics who noticed the tract on "Pure Wine" had 
carefully read it, and had paid any attention to the ideas therein 
contained, or if they had even read the two first words of the title 
page understandingly, they never would have been guilty of the 
absurdity of triumphantly quoting passages from the Word, and 
the writings of the Church, to prove that wine has a good cor- 
respondence and is useful, thus intimating that the writer had 
represented to the contrary — ^which was not true. 

The present volume has been written at irregular intervals, 
during a period when the writer has been overwhelmed with 
business and care. Many volumes treating upon the subject 
considered in this work have been carefully read, occupying 
spare moments on the cars and steamboats, as well as at home. 
Three small works have been read, and extracts selected from 
them since the first chapter was placed in the hands of the 
printer, and two of them were not even published at that time. 
Although this volume has been too long delayed, it has been 
published at the earliest moment practicable. 

New York, October, 1881, 



THE WINE QUESTION 



IN THE 



LIGHT OF' THE NEW DISPENSATION, 



-:o: 



CHAPTER I. . 

THE PHILOSOPHy OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING yPON THE SUBJECT 
OF INTOXIplTING DRINKS.. 

"It would be well for man/' says Swedenborg, " to prepare 
his food chiefly- with reference to use ; f<>r by so doirig he would 
have for his object a sound mind in d sound body; whereas, 
when' the taste is the chief thing attended to, the body thence 
becomes diseased at heart, mwardiy languishes,- arid conse- 
quently also the niind, inasmuch as its state depends on the state 
of the recipient bodily parts, as seeing depends on the istate of 
the eye ; hence the madness of supposing that all the delight of 
life, and what is comihonly called the sumfHum bonum, consists 
in luxury and pleasurable indulgences : hence also come dull-^ 
riess and stupidity in things which require thought arid judg- 
ment, whilst the niind is disposed only for the exertions <)( 
cunning respecting bodily and worldly things : hereby man ac- 
quires a similitude to a brute animal and therefore such persons 
are not improperly compared with brutes/' (A. C. 8378.) 

"A man cannot be conjoined to the Lord unless he be spiritual ; 
nor can he be spiritual unless he be rational ; nor rational unl6ss^ 
his b6dy be in a sound State : these things are like a house, thet 
body is like the foundation, the rational principle is like the 



lO PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

superstructure, the spiritual prfnciple like the things in the house, 
and conjunction with the Lord is like inhabitation." (D. L. W. 

33O') 

" All things created by the Lord are uses," says Swedenborg, 
and as to the uses for noiuishing the body he says : " Uses 
created for the nourishment of the body are all things of the 
vegetable kingdom which are for meat and drink, as fruits, 
berries, seeds, pulse, and herbs ; and all things of the animal 
kingdom which are eaten, as oxen, cows, calves, deer, sheep, 
kids, goats, lambs and their milk ; also fowls and fishes of many 
kinds." 

" There are indeed many things which are not used by man ; 
but superfluity does not take away use, but causes uses to endure. 
There is also such a thing as abuse of uses ; but abuse does not 
take away use, as the falsification of truth does not take away 
truth, except only in those who are guilty of it." (D. L. W. 
331.) In other words, if a man eats or drinks any healthy 
article to excess, so that it harms and is not useful to him, it does 
not foUow that the same food or drink would not be useful to 
him who uses it properly. 

Thus far Swedenborg has been speaking only of good and 
useful articles for sustaining and nourishing the body, and of 
their legitimate use and abuse; but he now comes to speak 
of a totally different class of substances, or of "evil uses," of 
which he says : 

" Good uses are firom the Lord, and evil uses are fi-om 
hell. Evil uses were not created by the Lord, but that they 
originated together with hell. All goods which exist in act are 
called uses, and all evils which exist in act are called uses, but 
the latter are called evil uses, and the former good uses. Now 
as all goods are firom the Lord, and all evils firom hell, it 
follows, that no other than good uses were created by the 
LcMrd, and that evil uses originated firom heU. By uses, which 
are treated of in particular in this article, all things that ap- 
pear on earth, as animals of all kinds and vegetables of all 
kiad^ i of both the latter and the former, those which furnish use 



. UPON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. X I 

to man are from the Lord, and those which do hurt to man are 
from hell." Among the evil uses referred to above he enume- 
rates : " Wild beasts of all kinds, as serpents, scorpions, dragons, 
crocodiles, tigers, wolves, foxes, swine, owls of different kinds, 
bats, rats and mice, frogs, locusts, spiders, and noxious insects of 
many kinds : hemlock and aconite, and aU kinds of poison, as 
well in herbs as in earths ; in a word, aU things that do hurt and 
kill men ; such things in the hells appear to the life, just like 
those on the earth and in it. It is said that they appear there, 
but still they are not there as on earth, for they are mere corres- 
pondences of the lusts that spring from evil loves, and present 
themselves before others in such forms." (D. L. W. 339.) 

&vedenborg again says : "The things that do hurt to a man 
are called uses, because they are of use to the wicked to do evil, 
and because tl^y contribute to absorb malignities, and thus also 
as remedies. Use is applied in both senses, like love ; for we 
spe^ of gQod love and evil love, and love calls all that use 
which is done by itself." (D, L. W. 336.) 

So it will be clearly seen, from the above quotations, that 
there are in the worid substances \idiich are good and useful as 
articles of food and drink, which in themselves alwa3rs have a 
good correspondence^-they are always good uses, for they are 
among the good ^ts of God ; we may abiise them, but we can- 
not convert them into evil uses— they are stiU good. So it is 
equally clear, from the above quotations, that we have another 
class of substances, which^ when used as food and drink, are 
always evil uses— -evil in themselves, for they originate from hell 
we are told ; and even though they may contain some materials 
which may nourish the body of man, as most poisonous vege- 
tables do, as a whole they are poisonous and injurious, and never 
in healdi can we use them without violating the laws of our 
being, and the plain philosophical teaching of the New Church. 
Can anything be clearer than this ? Further on in this work it 
will be shown that fermented wine, whisky, and other intoxicating 
drinks are poisons ; and, consequently, that they are, according to 
the philosophy of the New Chiurch, from hell. Of no other sub- 



12 PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARINQ 

Stance, or article ever used as drink or food have we such long con- 
tinued historical records, both secular and sacred, showing that it 
harms and kills men when used as a beverage, as wq have in the 
case of fermented wine. 

How clear it is, that when Swedenborg says that : " Falses 
from evil may be compared to such wine and strong drinks as 
induce drunkenness," and Words for the New Church as- 
sures us that " comparisons when employed by Swedenborg are 
correspondences" — that the Academy's editors are correct, in 
this instance, at least — ^but, hereafter we shall show, whether, this 
doctrine is to be accepted as true or not, how far they come 
short of correctly applying it in another comparison which they 
have selected from Swedenborg's writings, to justify the use of 
fermented wine, wliisky, and other intoxicating drinks. 

We repeat, in substance, that intoxicating drinks, even the 
single article of fermented wine, has hurt and killed more of the 
human family than all other poisons or evil uses pertaining to 
food and drink put together. It has done it more insidiously, 
more cruelly, and has perverted the passions and appetites of 
men immeasurably more than all other poisons. It has caused 
more wretchedness, poverty^ domestic unlmppiness, and crime 
than all other poisons put together. It so clearly belongs to the 
evil uses, which Swedenborg assures us have their origin from 
hell, that it seems strange that any intelligent New .Churchman 
should for a moment claim that fermented wine is a good and 
useful article to drink, when in health. In sickness the chemical 
elements of fermented wine may be curative in rare instances. 
Chemistry shows conclusively thai it is in no true sense the fruit of 
the vine ; that almost all of the organized substances contained 
in the juice of the grape have been either partially. or tptally de- 
stroyed, precipitated, changed, and perverted by leaven or fer- 
ment- Can an evil substance,, like leaven, bring forth good 
fruit? JBut as several New Church writers have denied that 
fermeilted wine and alcohol are poisons, the author will consider 
this subject at length in the next chapter. 



UPON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. 1 3 

Good, pure, clean water, the unfermented blood of the grape, 
wine or must, as it flows from the press, unfermented new and 
old wine, good sound wheat and other grains, suitable for human 
food, and fresh meal and flour made from the same, sweet un- 
leavened bread, good fresh mutton and beef from healthy cattle, 
and many other wholesome articles not here enumerated, when 
used as drink and food, supply the wants of the human body and 
give substance and thus strength, without causing any unnattural 
excitement or depression, or any disease peculiar to the article 
used, however freely it may be taken, and without causing, any 
unnatural appetite which other healthy articles will not satisfy, and 
without requiring to be taken in gradually increasing quantities 
to satisfy the appetite for them, and which therefore in their 
action are not seductive, are all good uses, according to tiie 
philosophy of Swedenborg, and always have a good signification 
and correspondence, and they are never evil or bad uses, and 
they never have a bad signification or correspondence. But 
these good uses, as we have already intimated, may be abused, 
used to excess, or improperly used ; but abuse, excessive or im- 
proper use does not destroy them as good uses, and they are still 
good uses, and have a good signification and correspondence, 
however much their abuse may injure the individual misusing 
them. Their improper use, abuse, or excessive use may have a 
bad signification, but the substances themselves never have, for 
they are the good gifts of God, and always correspond to truths 
and good affections. Swedenborg says : " As meats and drinks 
recreate the natural life, so good affections and genuine truths 
corresponding to them recreate the spiritual life." (Swedenborg's 
Index tonhe A. C.) 

On the other hand, water <:ontaminated by arsenic, copper, 
alcohol or other injurious substances, or which is dirty and fildiy 
from the presence of substances capable of causing disease or 
injiuy when drank, fermenting must and new wine, and fermented 
new and old wine, owing to their either being or having been 
polluted by fermentation and its poisonous product (alcohol), 
ixnsound or decaying wheat and other grains, sour or mouldy 



14 PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHUJRCH BEARING 

breads diseased or putrid beef and mutton, henbane, opium, the 
deadly nightshade, tobacco and other poisonous plants, when 
used as drink. and food are always evil uses, and have a bad sig- 
nification and correspondence, and are never good uses, and 
never have a good correspondence. Many of the above sub- 
stances possess in an eminent degree all the chacaQteristics of 
poisons, as the writer has. shown elsewhere. This is especially 
true of all fermented and alcohoUc drinks, .opium,-and tobacco, 
for they cause diseases peculiar to the substance taken, their use 
develops an unnatural appetite which healthy food and drink will 
not satisfy, and which no other substance in nature will satisfy, 
and they require to be taken in gradually increasing quantities to 
satisfy the appetite for them until a quantity which would kill 
several men not addicted to their use, may be taken with im- 
punity by those who are accustomed to their use. 

The above poisonous substances,, or evil uses, may be applied 
to good purposes, and thus used, their use may, perhaps, have a 
good signification ; fpr we are told that, during the process of 
regeneration, evil spirits flow into man's evil inclinations and ex- 
cite jthem, ^md by so doing bring them before his mental vision, 
enabling him to see them, when, if he resists, overcomes and puts 
them away, such evil spirits have beeji useful to him; so poisonous 
substances .taken into the physical body will excite diseases similar 
to those they will cause whep taken by the healthy, and thus bring 
such existing diseases into view, or make them manifest |:o that liv- 
ing force which is ,eyer active to preserve the health of the body, 
and if the latter reacts, overcomes and puts away such diseases, 
a good use is performed by these poisonous substances. But 
such good uses do not change the inherent quality of either the 
evil spirits, or of the poisons, the former are still evil and tha 
latter are still poisonous. We should be careful and not con- 
found evil with good or the false with truth. Poisonous sub- 
stances, as food and drink, correspond to evils and falses, appro- 
priated and imbibed, and, therefcwre, however useful for the cure 
of diseases they should never be used by man during health. 



UPON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. ij 

Now, brethren of the New Church, you who advocate, justify; 
and thus encourage the use of intoxicating or fermented wine, 
beer and distilled liquors, tobacco or opium, it is certainly diffi- 
cult to see how it is possible for you to overthrow this grand 
philosophy of the Church, so rational and beautiful, and which is 
so clearly sustained by the analogy which exists between the 
action (rf fermented wine, beer, and alcohol, on the body and 
mind, and felses from evil on the souL Before you can sustain 
your views, the philosophy of good and evil uses, as laid down by 
Swedenborg ajad the science of correspondences, must be over- 
thrown, and his direct and positive compaiison of fermented 
wine to falses from evil must be set aside. 

If natural drunkenness ccwresponds to spiritual drunkenness, 
as it unquestionably does, is it not absolutely certain that the • 
cause of natural drunkenness must correspond to the cause of 
spiritual drunkenness ? Is it not a imiversal law that like effects 
from like causes (low? " Delirium in truths by falses is spiritual 
inebriation," "And they who falsify the Word are spiritually in- 
ebriated." (A. E. 887.) 

" That to be drunk signifies to be insane in spiritual things 
fiom the falses of evil." (Swedenborg's Index to the A. E.) 

Can anything be clearer than that such wine and strong drink 
as cause natural drunkenness correspond to falses from evil, 
which cause the spiritual inebriation or insanity to which nat;^ral 
drunkenness corresponds ? 

There is but one substance in nature that causes natural 
drunkenness, and that is alcohol wherever found, be it in whisky, 
fermented wine or beer — ^it therefore corresponds to the falsifica- 
tion of the Word from evil 

DOES AUCOHOL CORRESPOND TO FAITH ALONE? 

It has been thought by some that distilled sjwrits, or alcohol, ' 
corresponds to faith alone ; but that this is not correct is mani- 
fest, for fermentation destroys substances in the wine which cor- 
respond to good, and even poHutes the water which corresponds 
to truths with its own vile product, alcohol ; and even the de- 



l6 PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

lightful aroma of the natural wine is perverted into the flavor of 
alcohol ; and the whole fluid, as to taste, smell, and appearance is 
changed, until there is simply a semblance of the original fluid. 
The separation of the alcohol from fermented wine by distillation 
may be compared with, and unquestionably corresponds to, the 
separation of all the appearances and semblances of truth, in the 
mind of the evil man before he goes to his final home in the 
spiritual world, when his falses are fully in harmony with his evils 
— ^in other words are pure falses — falses from evil. This view is 
abundantly sustained by the testimony of Swedenborg, for he de- 
clared that whisky was a pernicious drink, and that the immoderate 
use of spiritous liquors would be the downfall of the Swedish 
people ; and he compares, as we shall see, such wine and strong 
drink as will cause drunkenness to falses from evil. 

But we are often guilty of separating what God has joined to- 
gether for the sustenance of the material body, which unquestion- 
ably corresponds to the separation of faith from charity, for it is 
a natural result that spiritual perversions should ultimate them- 
selves in natural perversions. As we have seen, the philosophy 
of the New Church teaches us that natural substances which sus- 
tain the body, correspond to goodness and truth which sustain ' 
the spirii ; and, of course, the perversions of the former must cor- 
respond to the perversions of the latter ; and we shall see that all 
of the effects of the natural perversions correspond to the effects 
of the spiritual perversions. The light and heat of the sun flow 
down to man- as one vitalizing power ; but separate the light from 
the heat by blinds. and curtains, in a very slight degree, in rooms 
where women and children dwell, and the effects are soon mani- 
fest, which are not exactly in the line of active diseases which 
res^ult from any poisonous substance, but rather show want or star- 
vation ; the eyes become weak and are often troubled with symp- 
toms of" amaurosis or paralysis df the optic. nerve, which result 
from- the want of light, the blood becomes thin and watery, and 
the skin puts on a pale and lifekss appearance and the whole 
body languishes for the want of light, btit no specific disease re-" 
suits from this cause ; although it is true that the individual thus ^ 



UPON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. 17 

deprived of light is more susceptible to the action of any prevailing 
cause of disease than those who are accustomed to the full light 
of day. Even the beneficent sunlight may be perverted by a 
lense until it will destroy the eyes and burn the body. 

Take new wine, or the unfermented juice of the grape. If we 
were to separate the water and sugar from the albumen and other 
substances contained therein, they would still be good and use- 
ful substances and not poisons, but as while a man might live on 
the expressed juice of the grape he would starve to death on 
such separate fluid, for it would not contain all the substances 
necessary to nourish the structures of the body ; so the spirit of man 
cannot live upon truth alone and the delight which flows there- 
from ; his affections must be nourished. The correspondence 
which exists in every particular is wonderful I Although alcohol 
is the result of the absolute perversion and destruction of sugar 
by fermentation, yet take only the pure sugar and water from the 
new wine and the sugar will never ferment, for fermentation al- 
ways commences in the gluten which nourishes the body as good 
does the soul, and from thence extends to the sugar. So before 
falses can seriously pervert the understanding the affections 
must be perverted ; and when a man, to justify the unlawful grati- 
fication of his appetites and passions, searches the Word and 
the- Writings, and perverts the truths therein from their true mean- 
ing, and thus makes evils allowable to him, he becomes a spiritual 
drunkard, as Swedenborg tells us ; and if the evil justified is the 
use of intoxicating drinks, he is very liable, as we all know, to 
become a natural drunkard : when the destruction and wreck of 
heavenly and natural life are complete. New Churchmen will 
do well to carefully consider this whole subject in the light of 
correspondences ; and if, first laying aside preconceived opinions, 
they will do this, they cannot well mistake the truth and their duty. 

There is another habit of separating what God has joined 
together for human sustenance and food, which is well worthy of 
our most serious consideration. We allow the miller to take 
wheat, that noblest of all grains for human food, which contains 
all of the materials required to nourish the human body, per- 



l8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

haps more perfectly than any other substance — and bolt it with 
the utmost care, and to cast away in the form of shorts and 
bran most of the gluten, phosphates, etc., required to give 
substance and strength to the body, reserving simply the super- 
fine flour, composed principally of starch, which is analogous 
to sugar and easily converted into sugar, and is, like the latter, 
useful to warm the body, and indirectly to produce fat when used 
as food. Now, this superfine flour is not a poison, and causes no 
specific disease peculiar to itself when used, although dyspepsia 
firequently results from its use, but it is owing to excess and not 
to quality ; for starch, like sugar, must be converted or rather per- 
ve^ed by leaven into alcohol before it becomes a poison, or is 
capable of causing drunkenness. If the stomach is filled with 
starch when it should have a .due proportion of other food, we 
can readily understand why, from such excess, indigestion results. 
This separation, as far as is practicable, of starch from the por- 
tion of the wheat which nourishes the bones, muscles, brain, etc., 
and the attempt to live on superfine flour alone, may be compared 
to the separation of faith from charity, and the attempt to build up 
a heavenly life by faith alone ; and it is unquestionably one of the 
perversions of a consummated Church, and the most fearful con- 
sequences follow, but not directly in the line of disease, for starch 
is not, as we have said, a poison ; but bread enters so largely into 
the food, especially of the young, that when children use bread from 
superfine flour, and fill their stomachs with such bread, the most 
important structures of their bodies are actually starved ; and they 
would starve to death, were it not for the milk, potatoes, etc., 
which they eat in addition to such bread ; and, as it is, they are 
ofl:en half-starved. The bones, with children thus fed, do not 
obtain the nourishment they need, and therefore such children are 
often troubled with bowing and other deformities of the legs, their 
spines are not unfrequently crooked, their jaws imperfectly devel- 
oped, consequently their teeth are crowded, and the teeth with 
many children are so imperfectly developed that they decay and 
are often lost during childhood and youth, instead of lasting dur- 
ing life as they manifestly should, and would if men were living 



UPON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. 19^ 

an orderly life. The muscles are thin and flabby, and therefore 
lack strength ; the brain is not duly nourished, consequently in- 
stead of mental strength, the mind is irritable, peevish and dissat- 
isfied. The child may be fat, for starch, as has been intimated, 
may contribute to that end, when other structures are half-starved. 

A writer in The Nineteenth Century says, in regard to white or 
brown bread : "The earliest agitator in the matter observed two 
years ago, when travelling in Sicily, that the laboring classes there 
live healthily and work well upon a vegetable diet, the staple arti- 
cle of which is bread made of well ground wheat-meal. Nor are* 
the Sicilians by any means thie only people so supported. 'The 
Hindus of the Northwestern Province can walk fifty or sixty miles 
a day with no other food than chapatties, made of the whole 
meal, with a little ghee or Galam butter.* Turkish and Arab 
porters, capable of carrying burdens of from four hundred to six 
hundred pounds, live on bread only, with the occasional addition 
of fruit and vegetables. The Spartans and Romans of old time 
lived their vigorous lives on bread made of wheaten meal. In 
Northern, as well as Southern climates, we find the same thing. 
In Russia, Sweden, Scotland, and elsewhere, the poor live chiefly 
on bread, always made from some whole meal — ^wheat, oats or 
rye — and the peasantry, of whatever climate, so fed, always com- 
pare favorably with our South English poor, who, in conditions of 
indigence precluding them from obtaining sufficient meat food, 
starve, if not to death, at least into sickliness, on the white bread 
it is our modem English habit to prefer. White bread alone 
will not support animal life. Bread made of the whole grain will. 
The experiment has been tried in France by Magendie. Dogs 
were the subjects of the trial, and every care was taken to equal- 
ize all the other conditions — to proportion the quantity of food 
given in each case to the weight of the animal experimented upon, 
and so forth. The result was sufficiently marked. At the end of 
forty days the dogs fed solely on white bread died. The dogs 
fed on bread made of the whole grain remained vigorous, healthy, 
and well nourished." 

When the light and life of the New Jerusalem begin to be 



20 PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

truly received by men, and to influence their lives, not only will 
such poisonous substances as intoxicating drinks, tobacco, and 
opium, which, according to the philosophy of the New Church, 
have their origin from hell, and not from the Lord, cease to be 
used by healthy men, but also such miserable shams as dark rooms, 
small waists, and superfine Horn* will disappear forever. Are not 
evils which result from perverted appetites and vanity, and which 
are the cause of deformity, disease, insanity, the most intense suffer- 
ing, povert}% drunkenness, crime, and the premature death of such 
vast multitudes of our race, of sufficient moment to require the 
attention of our New Church clergy and periodicals ? To shun 
such evils as sins against God would seem to be the first duty of 
every one who is thus transgressing His laws ; but is it not 
the paramount duty of the teacher of public and private morals 
to shun them as sins, and to make every eifort in his power to 
destroy the cause of evil? And since divine things with the 
people are provided by the Lord through the clergy and the press, 
are the clergy doing their duty when they either ignore or directly 
. countenance the use of intoxicating liquors as beverages ? 

Turning to a recent number of the Messenger, a periodical of 
the New Church, the writer finds not the slightest allusion to any 
of the above evils, but he does find, under the head of " Essays," 
a lengthy article on ; " The Relation of Ministers to the Organiza- 
tion of the Church," with the promise of three more articles or 
installments of the same essay in succeeding numbers of the paper. 
Well, this reminds the writer of a story, as his old friend Dr. 
Douglas used to say. A man, from advancing years and the in- 
firmities which old age sometimes brings, had become somewhat 
childish and so feeble as not to feel able to attend church. On 
a very pleasant day, feeling unusually well, he determined to attend. 
On his return from church, he was asked how he liked the 
minister and the sermon. With great enthusiasm he replied that 
the minister was a wonderful man, and his sermon was the finest 
sermon he had ever heard, so learned, useful, and so eloquently 
delivered. Well, inquired his friend, what was the subject of his 
discourse : "Why," he replied, " It was all about his salary." 



CHAPTER II. 

IS ALCOHOL A POISON ?^ — CONSEQUENTLY, IS FERMENTED WINE, 
OWING TO THE PRESENCE OF ALCOHOL, ALSO A POISON ? 

The writer, in his tract on " Pure Wine," etc., presented some- 
what hastily the evidence that alcohol, wherever found, when 
taken into the stomach is a poison ; and one of the most fearful 
and deadly of all the poisonous substances in the world, produc- 
ing dreadful effects, not only upon the body — causing some of 
the most serious and fatal of the diseases to which the physical 
system is liable — ^but also upon the mind of man, causing unnatural 
excitement, and consequent mental depression, delirium and 
insanity ; and that the specific action of alcohol, above all other 
poisons, is to excite the perverted passions of man to an extent 
which very frequently results in the commission of the most hor- 
rible crimes, which men would rarely commit when not under the 
influence of this poison. He also called the attention of the 
reader to the fact that no healthy article of food or drink ever 
produces upon the body and mind of man the slightest approach 
to any such direful . effects — that poisons, and poisons alone, pro- 
duce such effects ; healthy food never. He also called the atten- 
tion of the reader to the origin of alcohol, to the fact that it 
originates from the destruction of sugar, a good and useful 
article of food corresponding to spiritual delights, by leaven 
which " signifies the evil and the false, which should not be mixed 
with things good and true;" and that in every respect the action 
of alcohol on the body and mind is analogous to the action of 
falses upon the soul. First : That it causes specific unnatural 
effects, like falses which pervert the understanding of man, and 
encourage and justify his evils. Second : That it causes a specific 
unnatural appetite, like falses from evil which excite to specific 
evilrf which no natural or orderly food, nor even any other poison 

(21) 



22 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

or ^vil ever satisfies. Third : It requires to be taken in increasing 
quantities to satisfy the demands of the appetite and of the 
organism which have been perverted by it, until many times the 
quantity a man — ^accustomed to healthy food only— cannot take 
without destroying life, can be used with impunity ; precisely as 
fsilses from evil lead the innocent man to and from the commis- 
sion of slight crimes, at which his conscience revolts, gradually, 
step by step, to the commission of the most terrible crimes, and 
justify him in the same, until his spirit is so perverted that an 
orderly life and the pleasures arising therefrom, satisfy not; 
and down, down the broad road he rushes, regardless of every 
thing and everybody, precisely as does the drinker of alcoholic 
and fermented drinks. Fourdi ; It palliates the suffering which 
it has caused, which the Lord pennits to follow in the physical 
organization, to remind the man that by its use he is violating the 
natural laws of his being — in other words, it quiets and dulls his 
physical conscience, precisely as the repetition of acts which are 
known to be evil, quiets and dulls the spiritual conscience of 
man, until it is seared, and the individual becomes reckless and 
lost. 

We also called the attention of the reader to the chemical 
changes which are wrought by fermentation upon good wine, 
the pure juice of the grape — the fruit of the vine — of which our 
Lord and His disciples drank when He was partaking the Passover 
cup at the Last Supper. We showed that leaven or ferment in 
its onslaught upon good wine — ^which contains in a wonderful 
manner, most perfectly united by the Lord, all the constituents 
required to nourish the material body — ^tends to pervert and de- 
stroy the organized substances which nourish the material body as 
good does the soul, and, to the extent the process of fermentation 
is carried, it actually destroys the sugar, so delightful to the 
unperverted taste, and converts it into carbonic acid gas, a gas which 
we cannot breathe without risking or destroying life, and alcohol, 
a poisonous liquid, which we cannot drink without great danger 
to health, reason, and life. 

Another source of positive information tiiat sdcohol is a poison 



AUCOHOL A POISON. 33 

is derived from tlie results which follow, when one who has been 
accustomed to its use, attempts to stop taking it, and to substitute 
other drinks in its place, specific suffering follows even to delirium 
tremens^ which is characteristic of this poison. The substitution 
of one article of healthy drink or food for another never causes 
such specific symptoms or suffering. 

Now, it would certainly seem that no intelligent man, especially 
no New Churchman, who has any knowledge of the science of 
correspondences, and of the philosophy contained in the Writings 
of Swedenborg, and who has read his Bible carefully, can for a 
moment question the poisonous character of alcohol. But, as 
we shall bring the testimony of the Word of the Lord, and of the 
Writings of Swedenborg, when we come to speak of the two 
kinds of wine, we will refer the reader to the following chapter 
for further testimony from the above sources, and will here refer 
to the testimony of distinguished writers, in all ages, aside from 
that contained in the Bible. We will first give the testimony 
of ancient writers before and about the time of the commence- 
ment of the first Christian Church. For many of the historical 
facts, quotations and records contained in this chapter, we are 
indebted to a recent work, by Rev. G. W. Samson, D. D., on the 
"Divine Law as to Wines," just published. 

"Porphyry, quotes from a lost work of Chaeremon, librarian at 
a sacred college in Egypt under the Caesars, this historic record : 
*Some do not drink wine at all, and others drink very little of it, 
on account of its being injurious to the nerves, oppressive to the 
head, an impediment to invention, and an incentive to lust.* 

"In the * Hieratic Papyri,' or records of Egyptian priests, fotmd 
on paper made from the stem of the water-lily (Anasti, No. IV., 
Let. xi.) is this record of the address of an Egyptian priest to a 
pupil who had become addicted to the use of the beer of Lower 
and the wine of Upper Egypt : 'Thou knowest that wine is an 
abomination. Thou hast taken an oath as to strong drink, that 
thou wouldst not take such into thee. Hast thou forgotten thine 
oath?' 

"The laws of the Brahmins of India, embodied in the twelve 



24 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

chapters of the Institutes of Menu, declare that, among persons 
to be shunned in society is *a drinker of intoxicating spirits.' 

"Zoroaster declares that * Temperance is the strength of the 
mind ; a man is dead in the intoxication of wine.' 

" The Medes, succeeding to the Assyrian or Babylonian king- 
dom, began as a people strictly abstinent from intoxicating wine. 
Their degeneracy through luxury is portrayed by Xenophon in 
his 'Training of Cyrus,' in a picture which will ever be quoted 
as a gem of graphic sketching.. Young Cyrus, coming from his 
Persian home to visit his grandfather, Astyages, King of Medea, 
came to have a moral aversion to the king's cup-bearer, because 
of his office. The king remarking upon it, Cyrus proposed to 
act the cup-bearer ; and with a napkin on his shoulder presented 
the cup to the king with a studied grace that charmed the fond 
old man. When, however, the king observed that young Cyrus 
did not, before presenting the cup, first pour some of it into his 
left hand and taste it — a custom rendered necessary as a 
safeguard against attempts at assassination by poison put into 
the king's wme-cup — Astyages said, *You have omitted one 
essential ceremony ; that of tasting.' ' No,' replied Cyrus, * it 
was not from forgetting it that I omitted that ceremony.' ' For 
what, then,' asked Astyages, * did you omit it? ' * Because,' said 
Cyrus, * I thought there was poison in the cup.' ' Poison, child ! ' 
cried the king; 'how could you think so?' *Yes, poison, 
grandfather, for not long ago at a banquet which you gave to 
your courtiers, after the guests had drunk a litde of that liquor, 
I noticed that all their heads were turned ; they sang, shouted 
and talked they did not know what, and even you yourself 
seemed to forget that you were king and they were subjects ; 
and when you would have danced, yoii could not stand on your 
legs.' 'Why,' asked Astyages, 'have you never seen the same 
happen to your father? ' 'No, never,' said Cyrus (Cyrop. B. I.) 

" Who could have supposed that this same Cyrus would him- 
self be led to what was and still is called the temperate use of wine, 
and have led the Persian nation into a habit from which to this 
day they have not even as Mohammedans been redeemed ! It 



ALCOHOL A POISON. 25 

IS worthy of special note that the very point of the English con- 
troversy between Dr. F. R. Lees and Rev. A. M. Wilson turns 
on the early abstinence of Cyrus and his subsequent yielding to 
the seduction inseparable from high position, ease and luxury. 
The same Xenophon records that Cyrus in his manhood said, on 
a long march, to his officers : * Collect wine enough to accustom 
us to drink only water ; for most of the way is destitute of wine. ' 
That we do not, therefore, fall into disease by being left suddenly 
without wine, let us begin at once to drink water with our food ; 
after each meal drink a littie wine ; diminish the quantify we 
drink after eating until we insensibly become water drinkers : for 
an alteration little by little brings any one to bear a total change * 
(Cyrop. vi. 2). Xenophon, himself, a little later in life, encour- 
ages his troops by saying, that their sobriety made them an 
overmatch for their wine-drinking foes (Cyrop. vii. 5). The 
lesson is manifest. Herodotus further states that Cyrus by 
strategy overcame the fierce Massagetae; enticing the young 
prince and his officers, at a banquet given them, to drink deeply, 
while he and his generals only pretended to drink ; and then 
attacking their army while their officers were intoxicated. This 
unworthy act led the queen-mother to remonstrate with Cyrus to 
this effect : * When you yourself are overcome with wine, what 
follies do you not commit ! By penetrating your bodies it makes 
your language more insulting. By this poison you have con- 
quered my son ; and not by your skill or your bravery.' 

"When Alexander, the cultured pupil of Aristotle, transformed 
into the autocratic military cdnquerer, was seen at thirty to be 
in danger from wine-drinking, a physician named Androcydes, 
Pliny tells us (Nat. Hist. xiv. 5) wrote to him, begging him to 
avoid wine, since it was ' a poison.' 

" Pliny closes this book (c. 28) with one of the most eloquent 
of total-abstinence appeals ever penned or uttered. 'How 
strange,' he exclaims, 'that men will devote such labor and 
expense for wine, when water, as is seen in the case of animals, 
is the most healthful {saluberrimuni) drink ; a drink supplied^ too, 
' ■ 2 - ' • , . , - 



26 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

by nature; while wine takes away reason {nunte), engenders- 
insanity, leads to thousands of crimes, and imposes such an 
enormous expense on nations.' He says that confinned drinkers 
* through fear of death ' resulting from intoxication, take as coun- 
teractives 'poisons such as hemlock' {cicutatn)^ and 'others 
which it would be shameful to name/ *And yet,* asks he, ' why 
do they thus act? ' The drunkard never sees the sunrise ; his 
life by drinking is shortened ; from wine comes that palhd hue, 
those drooping eyeUds, those sore eyes, those trembling hands, 
.... sleep made hideous by furies during nights of resdessness ; 
and as the crowning penalty of intoxication {prcemium summum 
inebrietatis) those dreams of beastly lust whose enjoyment is 
forbidden.' He adds that many are led into this condition *by 
tl;ie self-interested advice of physicians who seek to commend 
themselves by some novel remedy.' 

Coming down to the second century in the writings of Pseudo 
Justin, we read ; 

" Wine is not to be drank daily as water Water Is 

necessary, but wine only as a medicine. He shows tlie absurdity 
of the plea that wine heats the body in winter and cools it in 
summer ; and says : * It is admitted that wine is a deadly poison * 
{pharmakon thanasimon). In using it, he adds, ' We abuse 
the work of God.'" 

Clement of Alexandria, who lived at the close of the second 
century, says : 

"I admire those who require no other beverage than water, 
avoiding wine as they do fire. From its use arise excessive 
desires and licentious conduct. The circulation is accelerated, 
ai[id the body inflames the soul." — Divine Law as to Wmes, 

Coming down to our own time, we know of no standard work 
on the effects of medicines or on poisons which does not recog- 
nize alcohol as a poison. In the United States Dispensatory we 
are told that : " As an article of daily use, alcoholic liquors 
produce the most deplorable consequences. Besides the moral 
degradation which they cause, their habitual use gives rise to 
dyspepsia, hypochondriasis, visceral obstructions, dropsy, paraly- 



ALCOHOL A POISON. ^7 

'sis, and not unfrequently raania. When taken in large quantities, 
alcohol, in the various forms of ardent spirits, produces an apo- 
plectic state, and occasionally speedy death ; the face becomes 
livid or pale, the respiration stertorous, and the mouth frothy,and 
the sense and feeling are more or less completely lost." 

All books on medical jurisprudence treat of "Poisoning by 
Alcohol," and we have but to look around us on every hand 
to behold the sad effects of this poison. We have brought the 
testimony of the ancient writers to prove that fermented wine 
was by them regarded as a poison, and it was a poison then and 
now, because it contained alcohol. 

The most distinguished English authorities declare : 

"We have all been in error in recommending wine as a tonic. 
Ardent spirits and poisons are convertible terms." — Sir Astley 
Cooper, 

" Reducti6n of animal heat is the special action of this poison.*' 
-^Dr, Richardson, 

" Its constant use in moderation injures the nervous tissue, and 
is deleterious to health." "A m^-n may very materially injure 
his constitution short of drunkenness," "It degenerates the 
tissues and impairs the intellect." — Sir W- Gull, 

While even the Roman Catholic Cardinal Manning, of Eng- 
land, lu-ges that entire abstinence from all intoxicants is the only 
hope of saying the Anglo-Saxon and Celtic races from physical 
degeneracy, three of our New Church periodicals are striving to 
justify the use of intoxicating wine ; and one of them even advo- 
cates the drinking of whisky, which Swedenborg declares a 
pernicious drink ; and this, notwithstanding Swedenborg com- 
pares such wine and strong drinks as cause drunkenness to 
falses from evil. Alas ! Alas ! for the organized New Church. 
May God protect it from the fearful evil of wine-drinking, and 
consequently from drunkenness. All experience shows, as well 
in the New Church as in other churches, and among Gen- 
tiles, that so long as intoxicating wine, having its origin, as we 
have seen, from hell, is drank, drunkenness, folly^ wretchedness 
and insanity will follow in a fearful number of cases ; and as we 



^8 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

shall show from the ablest medical testimony in the world, few, if 
any, will ever escape unharmed who use such a beverage, how- 
ever moderately. 

. Even the common sense of the world, as manifested in its 
poetry, has recognized the fact that wine and other intoxicating 
drinks are poisons. Shakspeare, Milton, and Pope repeatedly 
proclaim this most important truth, in lines ever memorable : 

"Bacchus that first from out the purple grape 
Crushed the sweet poison of misused wine." 

"Oh, that men should put an enemy in 
Their mouths to steal their brains ! " 

** Oh, thou invisible spirit of wine, 
If thou hast no name to be called by. 
Let us call thee devil ! " 

' . ** In the flowers that wreathe the sparkling bowl 

Fell adders hiss, and poisonous serpents roll." 

**The brain dances to the maddening bowl." 

" They fancy that they feel 
Di\inity \^ithin them breeding wings." 

And yet, exclaims the Rev. , in a sermon printed in a 

recent number of the Morning Light: 

" It is wrong for a New Churchman to teach that wine and other liquids 
containing alcohol are in themselves poisons." 

Wrong, indeed, is it to teach this truth, when the Word of the 
Lord, the writings of the Church, science and all history, teach 
that such liquids are the most fearful and destructive of all poi- 
sons ! affording, according to the writings of the New Church, a 
plane for influx from the hells, when they pollute, disease, and kill 
both body and soul. Again, says our reverend brother ; 

"If the question now be asked, How may we. as New Churchmen best 
promote the cause of temperance in this world? The answer is plain, let 
every New Churchman begin with himself, and let him resolve solemnly 
never to exceed the limits of strict temperance in the use of fermented 
liquids." 



/ ALCX)HOL A POISON. - 29 

Does not the reverend gentleman know, with the example of 
tiie victims of such habits as he recommends lying all around him, 
that no young man ever took his first glass of intoxicating >vine 
without resolving never to become a drunkard ; but that step by 
step he is lured on by this seductive fluid, only drinking what he 
finds is actually necessary to satisfy the demands of his appetite 
and of his perverted organization, and at last when he is shocked 
and angered at the intimation that there is danger of his becoming 
a drunkard, that it is then generally too late ; that the first glass has 
wrought its deadly work, and he is no longer in the same state of 
freedom as when he took that ? Does the reverend gentleman not 
know that every drunkard, who is not absolutely lost to all sense 
of right and shame, after he has had. a drunken spree, or delirium 
tremens^ during which his stomach has revolted at the approach 
of renewed potations of the poison, when he takes his first glass, 
resolves, oftentimes, as we well know, with prayers and supplica- 
tions to the Lord for help, that he will only take an occasional 
glass — only "drink temperately?" but that first glass, voluntarily 
taken, affords a plane for influx from hell, and he might as well 
attempt to stem the current of Niagara, forty feet above the 
cataract, in a birch bark canoe, as to attempt to stay his appetite 
until he has had another drunken bout. 

But with much .that is erroneous, our reverend brother states 
some truths, and among them he says : 

** Our allegiance as members of the New Church is due to the truth, to 
the plain, unvarnished truth, as this is taught in the letter of the Divine 
Word, illuminated by true doctrine." 

But, he says again : 

"The cause of intemperance is not in the body, but in the spirit; it is, in 
fact an outward bodily habit, resulting from a perverted spiritual state. 
Natural drunkenness, or an intoxicated state of the body and its senses, is 
injected into men and women in this world by spirits in the other world 
who are in a state of spiritual intoxication; then partaking of wine or 
other spirituous liquids, he transgresses the limits of temperance and 
becomes intemperate." 

^ Cannot our New Church brother see tiiat this statement, as a 



r 3<> ALCOHOL A POISON. 

whole, as he presents it here, and elsewhere in his sermon, is 
not correct? The natural substances around us, Swedenborg 
shows, derive their very quality and Ufe either from the Lord or 
from hell. All substances which do hurt and kill men originate 
from hell, we are told by the Swedish seer. Now it should be 
perfectly clear to our brother that natural drunkenness can only 
be caused by a substance or fluid which is a natural receptacle 
of, and derives its quality and life from, those false views springing 
from perverted affections which constitute spiritual drunkenness, 
and this is beyond question alcohol in some form. One-half, more 
or less, of the people of the United States never use intoxicating 
drinks, and there is not a single drunkard to be found among 
this 25,000,000 of people. They may drink all the water or 
milk, or even vinegar, they please ; they can never become 
drunkards, so long as they abstain from alcohol in every form. 
Many of them maybe spiritual drunkards, and doubtless some 
of them are, but they are not natural drunkards — ^not one of 
them — ^any more than a man who hates, covets, or envies, is a 
natmal murderer. Before he becomes a murderer he must use 
some physical agency capable of killing his fellow-man, it may be 
a dub, pistol, knife, poison, or his tongue, by uttering foul words 
of slander ; so long as he simply hates, and never uses any physi- 
cal instrumentality for killing the material body, he can never 
become the murderer of the physical body of man ; and hateful 
acts do not always kill a man, any more than the use of intoxicat- 
ing drinks always cause drunkenness, or kill a man ; but every 
hateful act, like every glass containing alcohol, is always injurious 
to the man who indulges in such perversions. 

It is, then, only when, from a perverted state of either the under- 
standing or will, the man forsakes healthy food, which nourishes 
and cheers without exciting, and partakes of the natural symbols 
of tlie falses which cause spiritual drunkenness, that natural 
drunkenness ever ensues. And a very important trudi should 
here be borne in mind by every man and woman, before they 
allow themselves to partake of intoxicating drinks ; and that is, 
jthat neither goodness, intelligence, near ignorance^ shields any pne 



ALCOHOL A POISC^. 31 

from a growing appetite^ disease, and drunkenness, who partakes 
at all of the natural substances which afford a plane for the influ^c 
of spirits who are in states of spiritual drunkenness. It is not 
necessary that the individual himself should be in such a state, 
for the same quantity of fermented wine will cause drunkenness 
as soon in the case of a good and intelligent man, as with an evil 
and ignorant man. The serpent, or the sensual principle, seduces 
man, therefore the danger of wine-drinking. The advocates for 
the use of intoxicating drinks seem to forget these great truths ; 
and further that there can be no spiritual reformation of man, 
which does not ultimate itself in the external life of man. 
Drunkenness can never cease until men stop drinking intoxi- 
cating drinks, as all history proves, any more than murders can 
cease until men stop using deadly instruments and bad words. 
The evil must first be resisted in external act, from the standpoint 
of conscience ; we must first stop douig evil, tlien we may be 
able to stop thinking, and only after that can we stop willing evil. 
Such is the order of regeneration as taught in the writings of the 
New Chiurch. Stop drinking intoxicating drinks, and drunken- 
ness inevitably ceases ; and such evil spirits as are spiritual 
drunkards, having no natural medium through which to flow into 
the external life of man, men will be left in fireedom firom such 
influx ; and then, and not till then, we may hope and expect 
that spiritual drunkenness will begin to cease on earth ; but the 
work must commence at the bottom, on the natural plane, from 
spiritual motives. In other words, we must shun the use of 
those drinks which cause natural drunkenness, as a. sin against 
God ; their use violating the laws of health, both in our physical 
and spiritual organizations. This is our first duty, if we would 
avoid either natural or spiritual drunkenness. 

Since writing the above, we are happy to find, in the columns 
of the Morning Lights an earnest remonstrance by Mr. T. Piatt, 
of burslem, England, against the promulgation of such erroneous 
and pernicious views on this subject as are contained in the 
sermon under consideration* We will add the closing paragraph : 

"The good would almost seem to have temper- 



3^ ALCOHOL A POISON. 

ance work upside down in his mind. The abstainer has seen the 
fiend, conscience has felt the sin before heaven, and the internal 
bond of a high, holy, and pure resolve has ultimated itself in die 
external vow and work for the dethronement of the demon, and 
its banishment by prohibition, if possible, from inside of old 
England's national cup and platter, that the outside thereof may 
also be clean and fair to the eyes of the peoples of the earth. 
Thousands of honest men and true have coupled true temperance 
with a sincere acknowledgment of the Lord's truth and power, 
and have thereby overcome its spiritual cause ! The text 
(resplendent in its own truth), but ill-aimed for once from the 
discourse it was to give effect to, merely glances along the pre- 
cipitous heights of moderation, but touches not the temperance 
tower of refuge, which, basking in the warm rays of love to God 
and man, still stands a mighty reclaiming power from that spirit 
of evil whose potent spell 'unmans man, unwomans woman, turns 
the mother's milk into a monster's venom, fires men to do things 
they would revolt from in their screner moments,' and, let me 
add, peoples the hells ! Permit me, then, with the memory of 
a sire a victim to the curse, the cares of a ruined family devolving 
upon me in consequence, the still uneffaced years of misery which 
marked the track from the * allowed' moderation to a grave as 

yet scarcely closed, to appeal to in the name of love 

and pity not to again publish a discourse on this question which 
may be grasped as an excuse by some poor brother unconsciously 
nearing the dreadful vortex ! There is, alas ! too much truth in 
the homely lines of the Preston poet, who wrote — 

•Ye men of sups and little drops. 
Ye moderation muddlers, 
Ye are the men that raised the seed 
Of regular drunken fuddlers.' " 

MODERATION FALLACY. 

In concluding what we have to say of alcohol and fermented 
drinks, as poisons^ we cannot do better than quote a few passages 
from the writings of Dr. Benjamin Richardson, of England, who, 



ALCOHOL A POISON. 33 

„has iinquestionably observed and experimented more carefully, 
and for a longer period of time, on the action of alcoholic drinks 
on the body and mind than any other man. Speaking of " The 
Moderation Fallacy," he says : 

" This thought leads me to add a word on what is called the 
practice of moderation in the use of alcohol. I beheve the 
Church of England Temperance Association is divided by two 
lines, one of which marks off total abstainers, the other moderate 
indulgers. I am one of those who have once been bitten by 
the plea of moderate indulgence. Mr. Worldly Wiseman, with 
his usual industry, tapped me on the shoulder, as he does every 
man, and held a long and plausible palaver on this very subject. 
If I had not been a physician he might have converted me. But 
side by side with his wisdom there came fortunately the knowl- 
edge which I could not, dare not, ignore, that the mere 
moderate man is never safe, neither in the counsel he gives to 
others, nor in the practice he follows for himself. Furthermore, 
I observe as a physiological, or perhaps, psychological, fact, that 
the attraction of alcohol for itself is cumulative. That so long as 
it is present in a human body, even in small quantities, the long- 
ing for it, the sense of requirement for it, is present, and that as 
the amount of it insidiously increases, so does the desire. 

" The mere question of the destructive effect of alcohol on 
the membranes of the body alone would be a sufficient study for 
an address on the mischiefs of it. I can not define it better, 
indeed, than to say that it is an agent as potent for evil as it is 
helpless for good. It begins by destroying, it ends by destruc- 
tion, and it implants organic changes which progress independ- 
ently of its presence even in those who are not bom. 

" In my address delivered last year in the Sheldonian Theatre, 
at Oxford, I spoke almost exclusively on the facts connected 
with the action of alcohol on the body. It seems to me befitt- 
ing, 'if on the present occasion I touch more particularly on the 
facts connected with the action of alcohol on the mind. Before, 
however, I pass to this particular topic, it may be advisable to 
epitomize the matter of the Oxford essay, so that those, and they 



-34 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

must be many here, who have not read that essay, may follow 
the present argument dealing with mental phenomena, from the 
argument which was based on the study of physical phenomena. 

" In that essay I endeavored to show from the experimental 
evidence I had previously collected, that alcohol, when it finds 
its way into the living body, interferes with the oxidation of the 
blood ; that it interferes with the natural motion of the heart ; 
that it produces a paralyzing effect on the minute circulation of 
the blood at the point of the circulation where the quantity of 
the blood admissible into the tissues ought to be duly regulated ; 
that habitually used in what some — indeed, the majority of those 
who indulge in alcoholic drinks — consider a moderate quantity; 
it impedes the digestive power ; that it induces organic chaises 
•ending in organic diseases of vital organs, such as the liver and 
kidneys ; that it leads to similar changes in the great nervous cen- 
tres, and to destruction of nervous function, ending in paraljrsis. 

"I further indicated, in the address to which I refer, that 
alcohol has no claim whatever to be considered a supporter of 
the animal temperature, and no claim whatever to be thought a 
supporter of muscular power. On the contrary, that, from the 
moment a physiological effect is produced in the body by alcohol 
and onward, so long as the effect is kept up by the addition of 
the agent to the body, the animal heat, the nervous control over 
the muscles, and the independent power resident in the muscles 
themselves, begin and continue to decline, until at last the body, 
cold and senseless, falls to the ground, checked only by its own 
utter helplessness, and, as it were, living death, from imbibing the 
last drops that would make the death absolute. From all these 
facts I reasoned that alcohol could not, in any sense whatever, 
be, scientifically, set down as a food for man or any other ani- 
mal ; that it could not be set down as a necessity for man or any 
other animal ; that, useless as food, it is mischievous as a luxury ; 
and that, indulged in as a luxury, it is far too dangerous a destroyer 
to be entrusted to the general management of mankind, or to the 
hands of those who, because of its luxurious temptations, fall 
under its power. 



ALCOHOL A POISON. 35 

ACTION OF ALCOHOL ON THE MIND. 

" As I have moved among those who are physically stricken 
with alcohol, and have detected under the various dis- 
guises of name the fatal diseases, the pains and penalties it 
imposes on the body, the picture has been sufficiently cruel. 
But even that picture pales as I conjure up, without any stretch 
of imagination, the devastations which the same agent inflicts on 
the mind. Forty per cent., the learned superintendent of 
Colney Hatch, Dr. Shepherd, tells us, forty per cent, of those 
who were brought into that asylum during the year 1876, were 
so brought because of the direct or indirect effects of alcohol. 
If the facts of all the asylums were collected with equal care, 
the same tale would, I fear, be told. What need we further to 
show the destructive action of this one instrument of destruction 
on the human mind? The Pandemonium of drunkards: the 
grand transformation scene of that pantomime of drink, which 
commences with moderation ! Let it be nevermore forgotten by 
those who love their fellow-men until, through their efforts, it is 
closed for ever. 

" For the work that comes of the mind and that comes out 
under pressure, no taste of alcoholic stimulation is necessary. 
Every such taste is a self-inflicted injury, and, what is more, an 
accumulating injury. The dose of alcohol which spurred the 
thought of to-day must be slightly increased to spur the thought 
of to-morrow to the same pitch. So on and on the evil goes, 
until at last the simple, and, as it was called, harmless dose^ rises 
to the poisonous dose; until, with unnerved Umbs, faltering 
memory, dull imagination, estranged feehng, enfeebled or even 
dismantled reason, the victim falls. Of all men, brain-workers 
are tlie men least able to bear up against the ravages of alcohol. 
Of all men they are the most liable to be deceived and played 
upon by this traitor, who enters .the most precious treasury, the 
citadel of the mind. I hold that man as prematurely mad who 
defends the use of alcohol for himself on this ground of neces- 
sity. I hold that man as criminally mad who, knowingly, 
prescribes alcohol on this foundation. 



36 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

" On the other side the experience is unfortunately overwhekn- 
ing in favor of the observation that the use of alcohol dulls the 
reasoning power, makes weak men and women the easy prey of 
the wicked and strong, and leads men and women who should 
know better into every grade of misery and vice. It is not poor 
repenting Cassio alone who cries out in agony of despair, * Oh, 
that a man should put an enemy into his mouth to steal away 
his brains !' It is thousands upon thousands of Cassios who say 
the same thought, if not the same words, every day, every hour. 
I doubt, indeed, whether there is a single man or woman who 
indulges or who has indulged in alcohol who could not truth- 
fally say the same ; who could not wish that something he had 
unreasonably said or expressed under the excitation of alcohol 
had not been given forth. 

"If, then, alcohol enfeebles the reason, what part of the mental 
constitution does it exalt and excite ? It exalts and excites those 
animal, organic, emotional centres of mind which, in the dual 
nature of man, so often cross and oppose that pure and abstract 
reasoning nature which lifts man above the lower animals, and, 
rightly exercised, little lower than the angels. Exciting these 
animal centres, it lets loose all the passions, and gives them more 
or less of unlicensed domination over the whole man. It excites 
anger, and when it does not lead to this extreme, it keeps the 
mind fretful, irritable, dissatisfied, captious. The flushed face of 
the red-hot angry man, how like it is to the flushed face of the 
man in the first stage of alcoholic intoxication. The face, white 
with rage, and the tremulous, agitated muscles of the body, how 
like both are to the pale face and helpless muscles of the man 
deep in intoxication from alcohol. The states are not simply 
similar, they are identical, and the one will feed the other." 

The young man in his path of life has no worse enemies to 
encounter than temperate drinkers, more aptly named by an 
Irishman who had himself once been one of them, "Beginners," 
and Dr. Crosby's temperance society the "beginners* society." 
The influence of the drunkard on the young amounts to litde ; 
but that of the beginner may be fearfully destructive. Well did 



ALCOHOL A POISON. 37 

the wise men of old advise, that the society of such should be 
shunned. 

It is well known to medical men that a man may have delirium 
tremens^ and die from this disease, without ever having been what 
the temperate drinker calls drunk. Even clergymen not unfre- 
quently witness such cases. Says the Rev. J. M. Van Buren : 

** I have in my knowledge two cases of men dying from delirium tremens 
who were never known to be drunk j steady moderate drinking was the 
cause." 

Are such men drunkards, or are they not ? Can any one tell 
us where the line of demarcation between the so-called temperate 
drinker and the drunkard lies? Surely the chief responsibihty 
for the drunkenness in the world lies with the "beginners," for 
if men never begin to drink, the race of drunkards will soon be 
extinct. 

Speaking of those who attempt to justify the use of intoxicat- 
ing wines from the Bible, the Rev. J. M. Van Buren, in his 
excellent work on Gospel Temperance, says : 

" One stands appalled who thinks of the destruction of multitudes of our 
youth by the teaching and example of such men." 

It is a fearful thing to pervert the truths of the letter of the Word, 
and the Revelations of the New Church, for the justification of the 
gratification of our perverted appetites and passions ; and espe- 
cially to teach others that such gratifications are right, and thus to 
lead the inexperienced into such perversions. The writer desires 
to call the attention of such of his brethren as use, justify, and 
advocate the use of fermented wines and other intoxicating 
drinks, to the following statement of Swedenborg : 

" That the insanity signified by inebriation and by drunken- 
ness in the Word is not from falses, but from truths falsified." — 
(Swedenborg's Index to the A. E. 1035.) 



CHAPTER III. 

TWO KINDS OF WINE. 

That there are two kinds of wine spoken of in the letter of the 
Bible and in the writings of the New Church, the one always 
good and the other always evil and pernicious, will be evident 
to every reader who, without preconceived opinions, carefully 
reads his Bible and the Writings of Swedenborg. It is now, 
as we intimated in our tract with a few illustrations, perfectly 
clear, that during all the various periods when the Sacred 
Scriptures were written, the ancients were in the habit of pre- 
paring two kinds of wine, both of which were called wine ; 
one kind fermented and intoxicating, and the other unfer- 
mented, and consequently unintoxicating ; which was not only 
harmless, but a healthy and nutritious drink, and abundantly 
capable of making glad the unperverted heart of man. They 
also prepared a great variety of unfermented or unintoxicating 
wine ; and by a great variety of methods which are carefully 
described by ancient writers, to three of which we alluded in our 
former tract. And, further, it is now evident that their best and 
most celebrated old wines were generally, if not always, unfermented 
wines. They had no distilled spirits to add to their wines to 
preserve them, as we have at this day, consequently, even if they 
had a desire to preserve their fermented wine, they would have 
found it difficult, with their imperfect vessels and casks, to have 
done so ; for fermented wine, if not most carefully excluded from 
the air, so readily passes into vinegar, especially in warm 
climates ; whereas they had no difficulty in preparing unfer- 
mented wine so that it would keep for years, and even for 
centuries, as we shall see from the testimony of ancient authors. 

Now, kind reader, stop a moment and reflect. Here is a view 
of the wine question, abundantly sustained by the testimony 

(88) 



TWO KINDS OF WINE, 39 

of disinterested ancient authors, and of the most distin- 
guished writers of the early Christian Church, which recon- 
ciles all apparent contradictions to be found in the Bible and in 
the Writings of Swedenborg ; and we ask, in view of the terrible 
evils you see around you, is it not worthy of your most serious 
and prayerful consideration ? It is evident that there is no evil 
of external life so fearful in its consequences upon our race as 
the drinking of intoxicating wines. Consider the unnatural and 
depraved excitement, the diseases, and drunkenness which arise 
therefrom as naturally as a stream flows from its fountain. Is it 
not a duty which we owe to the Lord, our fellow-man and to 
ourselves, to examine this subject? 

TWO KINDS OF WINE RECOGNIZED IN THE WORD OF THE LORD, 
BOTH SPIRITUALLY AND NATURALLY. 

If there are two kinds of spiritual wine recognized in the Word 
of the Lord, and in the writings of the New Church, we have a 
right to look for two kinds of natural wine ; for the philosophy of 
the New Church teaches us that the spiritual is ever in the 
effort to ultimate itself in the natural. Then to the law and 
testimony : 

"Wine and blood of grapes." (Gen. xlix. ii.) "Wine here," 
says Swedenborg, " denotes what is spiritual from a celestial 
origin," or "essential faith." (A. C. 107 1.) "Wine in the Holy 
Supper signifies the divine truth of the Lord's divine wisdom." 
(U. T. 711.) There is no difificulty in bringing a large number 
of quotations, both from the Word and 'the Writings of Sweden- 
borg, to show that good wine has a good signification ; and is in 
every way a safe, good, and useful drink. This is admitted by all, 
therefore further illustrations at present are unnecessary, as there 
is no controversy on this point. But here, one class of New 
Chm-ch writers and teachers assume that there is but one kind of 
wine spoken of in the Word ; and that is a good wine, having a 
good correspondence ; and that it is never evil, or a poison in 
itself; but that it may become injurious, if excessively used, like 
any other healthy article of drink. But another class of teachers 



40 TWO KINDS OF WINE. 

and writers, and among them the present writer/ claim that there 
are two kinds of wine ; one unleavened, good and harmless, 
always having a good signification ; the other leavened, poison- 
ous, and destructive, always having an evil signification when 
mentioned in the Word of the Lord. " In all the passages where 
good wine is named, there is no lisp of warning, no intimation 
of danger, no hint of disapprobation, but always of decided 
approval. How bold and strongly marked is the contrast ; 

The one the cause of intoxication, of violence, and of woes. 

The other the occasion of comfort and of peace. 

The one the cause of irreligion and of self-destruction. 

The other the devout offering of piety on the altar of God. 

The one the symbol of the divine wrath. 

The other the symbol of spiritual blessings. 

The one the emblem of eternal damnation. 

The other the emblem of eternal salvation." — Bible Wines, 

"The distinction in quality between the good and the bad 
wine is as clear as that between good and bad men, or good and 
bad wives, or good and bad spirits ; for one is the constant sub- 
ject of warning, designated poison literally, analogically, and 
figuratively, while the other is commended as refreshing and 
innocent, which no alcoholic wine is." — Lees^ Appendix (p. 232). 

And we shall find that this view is abundantly sustained by 
the Writings of Swedenborg. He says, " Whereas several expres- 
sions in the Word have also a contrary sense, so also has wine ; 
in which sense it signifies the false principle derived from evil." 
(A. C. 6377.) And, in strict harmony with this, he says : "The 
wine of fornication spoken of by Saint John the Revelator 
signifies the adulterated truths of faith, whereof drunkenness is 
predicated." (A. C. i o 7 2 .) Again, " By the wine of the fury and 
the wrath of God (Rev. xix.) are signified the goods and trutlis 
of the Church, which are from the Word, profaned and adul- 
terated, and therefore the evils and falses of the Church." But, 
say the advocates of fermented wine, this refers to spiritual wine 
and not to natural wine. Grant it, but have we no evidence 
that there is a corresponding material wine, which is an outbirth 



TWO KINDS OF WINE. ' 41 

from such spiritual wine ; and which therefore necessarily pro- 
duces similar effects on the body and mind of man, when he 
drinks it, that the above-named spiritual wine does upon his 
spirit when he adulterates the truths of faith and appropriates 
such adulterated truths to his life ? Can we, as rational beings, 
infer that there is no difference between the good wine of which 
we are told to "drink abundantly," — "wine which," we are told 
in Judges ix. 13, "cheereth God and man," and of which our 
Lord said at the Last Supper, " drink ye all of it," — and the wine, 
which we are told in Deut. xxxii. 33, " is the poison of dragons, 
and the cruel venom of asps ;" — the wine of which we are told in 
Jeremiah li. 7, "the nations have drank," " therefore the nations 
are mad," or the wine which we aie told in Prov. xx. i, that it 
" is a mocker, and that it biteth like a serpent and stingeth like 
an adder?" As the Proverbs have not a spiritual sense, tne advo- 
cates for fermented wine cannot claim that this refers to spiritual 
wine, and we think that they will agree with the writer that the 
author of Proverbs did not here refer to unfermented wine ; but 
we fancy that every one cannot but see that he did refer to 
fermented wine ; for we can see that, although the language is 
figurative, yet as such it most accurately describes the effects of 
fermented wine on the mind and body of man. 

But Swedenborg does not leave us in doubt as to there being 
two kinds of wine, one good and the other bad, for he says : 
" Falses from evil may be compared to such wine and strong 
drinks as induce drunkenness." (A. E. 1035.) It is not the use 
or abuse, but the article itself which is compared to falses from 
evil. It is its inherent quality, clearly described by its effects on 
the human body and mind. "By wine," says Swedenborg, 
"is signified truth from heaven, and in the opposite sense the 
false from hell." (A. E. 1046.) Good wine has always a good 
use ; it may be abused ; but abuse, Swedenborg tells us does not 
take away use, excepting in those who abuse it ; therefore, the 
wine itself, which signifies truth from heaven when unpolluted, 
can never signify " the false from hell," but the abuse of it pos- 
sibly may. We repeat, it is of the wine he speaks in the above 



4* TWO KINDS OF WINE. 

language, and not of its abuse. That it is not good wine which 
signifies the false from hell ; but such wine as has been perverted 
and polluted by ferment which we are told signifies *' the false 
of evil" (D. P. 284) will be clearly seen by the above quotation 
and others we have already made, and shall hereafter make from 
the Writings of Swcdenborg. Again, Swedenborg says : 

" 'The same shall drink of the wine of the anger of God, mixed 
pure in the cup of his wrath.' That hereby is signified appro- 
priation of the false and evil thence derived, conjoined with 
falsified truths from the literal sense of the Word, appears from 
the signification of drinking, as denoting to imbue and appro- 
priate to themselves; and from the signification of wine, as 
denoting truth from good, and in the opposite sense the false 
from eviL * * * In this case, therefore, by drinking the wine 
of the anger of God, is signified the imbuing and appropriation of 
the false and evil thence derived ♦ ♦ * and from the signi- 
fication of being mixed pure, as denoting to be conjoined with 
falsified truths. ♦ ♦ ♦ From these considerations it is 
evident that, by wine mixed pure in the cup of the anger of God, 
is signified conjunction with falsified truths of the literal sense of 
the Word. ♦ ♦ ♦ Tj^e reason why being mixed pure 
signifies to be conjoined with falsified truths of the Word is, 
because by pure [wine] is meant wine which is inebriating ; and 
thence inebriation, consequently, in the spiritual sense, delirium in 
truths by falses, for delirium in truth by falses is spiritual inebria- 
tion." (A. E. 887.) There is no known substance on earth which 
will with so much certainty and so uniformly cause natural deli- 
rium as fermented wine and other liquids which contain alcohol, 
that "prince of poisons." How clearly, fi-om its effects alone on 
man when he uses it, we may know that it corresponds to " falses 
from evil ;*' and the delirium which it causes to the " delirium in 
truths by falses !" We repeat, there is no healthy food on earth 
which, like alcoholic wine, and other fluids containing alcohol, 
causes delirium when freely used — ^alcohol always does this ; 
healthy food never. This fact alone, it would seem, ought to 
convince any intelligent New Churchman that it has its origin 



TWO KINDS OF WINE. 43 

firom hell, and nbt from the Lord. What can be clearer than 
this ? Owing, doubtless, to the fact that a very different mean- 
ing is attached to the word pure wine at this day, from the 
original meaning of the word as it was used in the passage under 
consideration ; and, apparently, lest his readers should therefore 
mistake the present meaning for the original meaning, Sweden- 
borg goes on to explain in the following language : "The word 
also by which pure wine \_merum^ is expressed in the original 
tongue is derived from a word which signifies to be inebriated, 
inasmuch as this is signified by pure wine [_merum'\ and they 
who falsify the word are spiritually inebriated, that is, are deliri- 
ous as to truths, therefore in the two passages where pure wine 
[^merum^ is mentioned in the Word, the subject treated of is 
concerning the falsification of truth, as in the prophecies of 
Isaiah and Hosea. *How hath the faithful city become a 
harlot ; full of judgment, justice lodgeth in her, but now homi- 
cides : thy silver hath become dross, thy pure wine [_merum'] 
mixed with water' (Isaiah i. 21-22). * ♦ * The pure 
wine [^merum'] mixed with water signifies truth made vile, and 
destroyed by the falsification thereof," (A. E. 887.) 

We know that fermented wine and other intoxicating drinks 
cause delirium and insanity, and that of the most fearful 
character ; and we know that healthy fluids have never this 
specific effect, as we have already said ; and we know also that 
spiritual truth when unperverted never causes spiritual delirium ; 
how, then, is it possible for a natural fluid, which legitimately 
corresponds to spiritual truth, to ever cause natural delirium, and 
that of a specific character like that from alcohol, character- 
istic of the article used? Our friends who advocate the use 
of intoxicating wines and whisky seem to forget the philosophy 
of the New Church and the science of correspondences, 
which are so clearly and beautifully taught in the Writings of 
Swedenborg. They seem to forget that : " The real case is, 
that in even the minutest things in nature and in her three 
kingdoms, the intrinsic agent is from the spiritual world, and 
imless such an active principle from that world was therein, 



44 TWO KINDS OF \^NE. 

nothing at all in the natural world could act as cause and effect^ 
consequently nothing could be produced." (A. C. 5173.) It 
is, therefore, perfectly clear that no article of food or drink can 
ever cause delirium, as does alcohol, which has not an active 
spiritual principle from hell, the home of insane and delirious 
spirits. 

A New Church clergyman, who is an earnest advocate of total 
abstinence from intoxicating drinks, has just sent the writer the 
following selection from the Writings of Swedenborg, with the 
comments attached : 

" Inasmuch as drunkenness was a type of insanity in regard to truths of 
faith, therefore it was also made a representative, and this prohibition was 
given to Aaron : * Do not drink wine^ nor drink that maketh drunken^ 
thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go into the Tabernacle of the Congre- 
gation, lest ye die; — that ye may put a difference between holy and unholy, 
and between unclean and clean.' — Levit. x. 8-9. (A. C. 10^2.) 

" This passage,' remarks our reverend correspondent, * I think conclu- 
sive proof — especially with those who believe the Word to be the sole basis 
of doctrine for the New Church." ' 

It is certain that the above passage distinctly marks a wine and 
strong drink that were forbidden the priests when they officiated 
in the service of the sanctuary. There can be no mistaking the 
kind of wine and strong drink referred to here. They are such 
as make men drunken. But we know that there are wines and 
strong drinks which are never unholy or unclean — wines every 
way suitable for use in the most holy ordinance of the Lord's 
Supper — wines that never "maketh drunken." 

In a work just published in England, the Rev. Thomas Pear- 
son says : 

" Moses tells us, that the intoxicating yayin (wine) of Sodom was the 
poison of dragons, and the cruel venom of asps, and are we to suppose him 
to refer to its abuse, and not to its character? He says nothing of excess 
or drunkenness, but speaks only of the character of the yayin. Now, as 
Moses speaks of the thing itself sluA not of its abuse, we conclude that it 
is the thing itself -which, is condemned. Now, will any of our friends on the 
other side point out a single passage in the Bible in which a ihmg ^od in 
itself IS condemned on account of its abuse i^* 



CHAPTER IV. 

TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, TWO KINDS OF MUST, AND TWO KINDS OF 
NEW WINE, ONE GOOD AND tHE OTHER BAD. 

We are told by Swedenborg that grapes in a good sense mean 
goodness, and in the opposite sense evil. (A. C. 2240, 51 17.) 
To eat sour grapes signifies to appropriate to one's self the falses 
of evil. (A. C. 556.) Grapes may not only be sour, but also 
wild, or uncultivated, consequently useless as fruit : when this is 
the case, as in Isaiah v. 2, they signify we are told " evil opposed 
to the goods of charity." "Grapes of gall and clusters of bitter- 
ness" (Deut. xxxii. 32) signify evils from dire falses. (A. E. 

438-) 

But the signification of sweet, cultivated grapes is good: 
" Grapes and clusters signify works of charity, because they are 
the fruits of the vine and the vineyard, and by fruits, in the 
Word, are signified good works." (A. R. 649.) 

Wine in the Cluster, — " ' Thus saith Jeho\%h, as the new wine 
is found in the cluster ; and He saith. Spoil it not, because a 
blessing is in it.' (Isaiah Ixv, 8.) The new wine in the cluster 
denotes truth from good in the natural principle. " (A. C. 
5 II 7.) Surely no one can pretend that this new wine in the 
cluster is fermented wine, for alcohol is never found in the clusters 
in the vineyard. To produce alcohol from grapes, either the 
grapes or the juice therefrom must be manufactured by man. 
"Clusters of noble wine" is not fermented wine. 

The Blood of the Grape, — ^This is the juice which flows 
almost or quite spontaneously from the grape, when the skin is 
wounded or broken, before the application of much pressure. 
It is the sweetest portion of the juice of the grape, and was 
frequently preserved separately by the ancients. Owing to its 
containing a large amount of saccharine matter, and very little 

(46) 



46 TWO KINDS OF GRAPES. MUST, AND WINE. 

gluten, it does not ferment as readily as the juice which is 
obtained by pressure. In Gen. xlix. ii, "*He hath washed his 
garments in wine, and his covering in the blood of grapes'; 
speaking of the Lord : here wine denotes spiritual good from the 
divine love, and the blood of grapes denotes celestial good 
thence derived. ♦ ♦ ♦ Again, *and thou drinkest the blood 
of the grape, new wine.* In Deut. xxxii. 14, speaking of the 
Ancient Church, * * * the blood of the grape signifies 
spiritual celestial good, which is the name given to the Divine in 
heaven proceeding from the Lord : wine is called the blood of 
grapes, since each signifies holy truth proceeding from the Lord ; 
wine, however, is predicated of the spiritual and blood of the 
celestial; and this being the case, wine was employed in the 
Holy Supper." (A, C. 5 1 1 7.) 

In the above passages from the "Arcana," we are distinctly 
taught that wine in the cluster and the blood of the grape have a 
good signification. Simply pressing the wine from the grape does 
not change its character ; it. is still good. Therefore Swedenborg 
informs us that "new wine signifies the truth of the Word." 
(A. E. 618.) "New wine signifies spiritual good." (A. E. 323,) 
"New wine (Luke ^v. 29) is the divine truth of the New Testa- 
ment, consequently of the New Church, and old wine is the 
divine truth of the Old Testament, consequently of the Old 
Church." (A. R. 316.) "Must signifies the same as wine, viz., 
truth derived from the good of charity and love." (A. E. 695.) 
And, again, " By the produce of the wine-press was signified all 
the truth of the good of the Church, the same as by wine." 
(A. E. 799.) 

From the above, it would seem that it must be perfectly clear 
to every one who acknowledges the truth of the revelations to 
the New Church, that not only the grape and the wine which is 
contained in the grape, the wine which flows from the grape on 
being punctured, or from the press when pressure is applied, but 
also all the produce of the wine-press have a good signification — 
the very highest. This is the wine, then, which we may safely 



TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 47 

use in the Holy Supper, for it has never been adulterated or 
polluted by the manipulation of man and the action of ferment. 

But let men collect this good juice of the grape, or new wine 
or must, into vessels and preserve it at a proper teniperature, 
exposed to the air, for from twelve to forty-eight hours, and a 
new form of life enters it ; ferment or leaven signifying **the false 
of evil" (D. P. 284), and "the evil and the false, which should 
not be mixed with things good and true" (A. C. 2342), com- 
mences its fearful work of destruction ; and, if not arrested by 
boiling, or some other instrumentality, it continues it until the|;e 
is left, save a little sugar, scarcely a vestige of the natural ingrcr 
dients of the original wine from the grape ; and when this work 
of destruction is completed we have fermented wine — ^the wine 
which causes drunkenness — which Swedenborg compares to falses 
from evil (A. E. 1035), and of which he says : "The reason why 
the false, which gives birth to evil, is signified is because, as wine 
intoxicates and makes insane, so does the false ; spiritual intoxi- 
cation being nothing but insanity induced by reasonings con- 
cerning what is to be believed, when nothing is believed which is 
not comprehended, hence come falses, and from falses evil." 
(A. C. 5120.) 

The reader will bear in mind that the leaven is neither the 
product of the vine, nor of the wine-press ; but it is among the 
evil uses, described by Swedenborg, which originate from hell ; 
and which he assures us should not be mixed with things good and 
true. " The process of fermentation is one of decay ; in all ferment- 
ative action, vital growth is arrested, organized matter is disinteg- 
rated and retrogression ensues. It is a passage from more complex 
to more elementary form — in fact, from diet to dirt. Pleutarch in 
his 'Roman Questions' (109), and Gellius, in his 'Acttic Nights,' 
remark that the priests of Jupiter were not permitted to touch 
haven, because it was the product and producer of corruption." 
(Lees' Bible Commentar}\) How strange it seems that any Nev/ 
Churchman, with all the clear light thrown upcn this subject by 
the writings of the Church, should justify and even advocate the 
use of fermented wine, full of alcohol, the chief product of leaven. 



48 TWO KINDS OF GRAPES. MUST, AND WINE. 

As soon as leaven commences its destructive work, the wine 
becomes warm, thick, and muddy, but it is still called must and 
new wine ; and it is in this state, as it is with new fermenting 
cider,, that it is liable to disturb the stomach and bowels if 
drank. Fresh grape juice or new wine, as well as grapes, if used 
moderately,will tend to keep the bowels regular and to remove 
constipation ; but if used too freely, like most fruits and their , 
juices, they may distiurb the stomach and cause looseness of the ' 
bowels. 

^ When the work of fermentation commences, we have a must or 
new wine of a very different character from that contained in the 
fruit of the vine, or which flowed from the press ; for it is being 
polluted by a substance which has its life from hell, and adul- 
terated by its chief poisonous product — alcohol, which causes 
drunkenness and insanity. Is it strange that must and new wine, 
when thus adulterated, should have a very different signification 
from the unpolluted must and new wine? 

It is certain that there must be a corresponding change in the 
signification of the new wine and must, thus changed by leaven ; 
therefore, we read that, "must or new wine denotes evil pro- 
duced by falses." (A. C. 2465.) And again, "That wine [vinum 
mustum~\ signifies the interior false principle, and new wine 
[mustuTn] the exterior false principle shown." (A. E. 141, 960.) 

In the Proverbs of Solomon, we are clearly shown that, in his 
day, they had two kinds of wine — ^the one good and the other 
bad. (Prov. ix. 2.) "Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath 
hewn out her seven pillars ; she hath killed her beasts ; she hath 
mingled her wine ; she hath also furnished her table.'* Here, 
then, he manifestly refers to a good kind of wine, which, when 
mingled with water, as was their custom in those days, as we 
shall see with their wine preserved by boiling, was every way a 
suitable article for a drink and for table use. But of a very 
different kind of wine we read in Prov. xxiii. 29, 30, 31. 
"Who hath woe? who hath sorrows? who hath contentions? 
who hath babbling? who hath wounds without c^use? who hath 
redness of eyes ? They that tarry long at ' the wine ; they that 



TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 49 

go to seek mixed wine. Look not thou upon the wine when it 
is red, when it giveth his color in the cup, when it moveth 
itself aright. At the last it biteth like a serpent and stingeth 
like an adder." How wonderfully do these ancient Proverbs 
describe the effects of intoxicating wines seen to-day, as in 
former times. How good and safe the command of total absti- 
nence, which the wise man gives in the above strong language. 
"The condemnation of wine by the leading prophets," says the 
Rev. Dr. Samson, "is universal. Jeremiah pictures 'the man 
whom wine hath overcome* (xxiii. 9), and 'nations drunk with 
wine' (U. 7). Ezekiel reproduces the law 'neither shall any 
priest drink wine' (xliv. 21). Zechariah declares that the 
Israelites in their moral abandonment at Christ's coming would 
be Uke men ' drinking' to drown sensibility, who * make a noise 
through wine.' Zechariah puts the healthful /iV^jA, 'new wine,' 
which maidens at the Messiah's coming will partake, into direct 
contrast with the yayin, or intoxicating 'wine,' which 'noisy' 
brawlers will drink (ix. 15, 17). Haggai mentions it among the 
simple natural products of the land of Israel in the latter day 
(i. 11). Jeremiah as the compiler of the Kings, and Ezra of the 
Chronicles, mentions tirosh as an article to which there is a return 
after reformation under Hezekiah and Josiah (2 Kings xviii. 32 ; 
2 Chron. xxxi. 5 ; xxxii. 28) ; and Nehemiah cites it in almost 
every allusion toithe products of the field, as if the return from 
their captivity brought a return among the Israelites to the use 
of simple unfermented wine " (Nehemiah v. 11 ; x. 37, 39 ; xiu. 

"It is worthy of note," says the Rev. W. M. Thayer, "that the 
Bible supports the view that alcohol is poison. The Hebrew 
word for 'poison' is khatnah. This word is found in the two 
following passages with others : ' Adder's poison is under their 
lips.* (Ps. cxl. 3). 'Their wine is the poison of dragons.' 
(Deut. xxxii. 33.) If the idea of ' poison' is found in the first 
passage, so it is in the second. Hence some commentators 
translate the passage in Habakkuk ii. 15, thus : 'Woe unto him 
3 



50 , TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 

that giveth his neighbor drink, that putteth thy khamah (poison) 
to him 1* Instead of ^bottle, St. Jerome's version has it 
'poison,' 'gall.' Montanus has it, 'thy poison,^ Dr. John Gill 
says, the word is sometimes translated, ' thy gall,' ' thy poison.' 
Parkhurst defines khamah, 'inflammatory poison.' Archbishop 
Newcome has 'gall,' 'poison.' The Bible declares that wine 
'biteth like a serpent and stingeth like an adder ;' in which text 
there is no sense, unless we have in view the fatal poison which 
these reptiles eject with their bite. Dr. John Mair, of Edinburgh, 
staff-surgeon^to her Britannic Majesty's army, remarks upon this 
passage : ' Is there not something to be gathered from this sin- 
gular fact? Does it not tend to show that alcohol is no ordinary 
poison; but that it possesses qualities assimilating it to the 
poison of serpents, which render it peculiarly the enemy of man, 
to be shunned by him as venomous reptiles are, almost instinct- 
ively ?' " — Communion Wine and Bible Temperance. 

NEW WINE E^ OLD BOTTLES. 

We present the following extracts fi-om the little book entitled 
"Holy Scripture and Temperance," by Canon Hopkins : 

" It seems to have become an almost universal habit to take 
for granted that whenever wine is mentioned in Holy Writ, an 
intoxicating drink is intended. Of course, it is well known that 
intoxicating wine is very often spoken of in Holy Scripture, 
although invariably some cautionary or condemnatory language 
is appended, whenever its power to produce drunkenness is 
recognized. This fact creates a presumption that Holy Scripture 
does not sanction or justify the habitual use of intoxicating wine. 
But this presumption would be very weak, if it were not sup- 
ported by any other facts. Is it, then, supported in any other 
way? Most readers will be ready to dismiss the question at 
once. Wine is wine, they will urge, and it is absurd to pretend 
that it is or can be anything else. There is, however, only one pas- 
sage in Holy Scripture which gives any insight into the chemical 
properties of the wine which was then in common use, and this 
is in the New Testament. Our Lord, speaking of the wine which 



NEW WINE IN OLD BOTTLES. SI 

was in use at the period when He lived and taught, says on one 
occasion : 

"'No man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new 
wine will burst the bottles, and be spilled, and the botties shall 
perish. But new wine must be put into new bottles ; and both 
are preserved. No man also having drunk old wine, straightway 
desireth new ; for he saith. The old is better.* (St. Luke v. 37- 
39 ; compare St. Matt. ix. 17, and St. Mark ii. 22.) 

"Three properties of wine are here spoken of; and spoken of 
as being perfectly familiar to the experience of all persons who 
have anything to do with wine : 

"i. New wine put into new botties will keep without danger 
either to the wine or to the bottles. 

"2. New wine put into old bottles will not keep, but will in 
some way burst and destroy the botties, and will run out and be 
spilled. 

" 3. The wine is mellowed by being kept, and acquires by age 
a more attractive flavor. 

"Where, then, can we find a liquid which fulfills these three 
conditions ? 

" Everybody knows very well that modem still wine, whether 
new or old, may be put with perfect security into any kind of 
bottle whatever, and has no tendency to burst the bottle. 

"Sparkling wines could not be safely put into leather bottles at 
aH, either new or old. Even with thick glass bottles, there is a 
great destruction of botties and loss of wine in the factories where 
these wines are made and prepared for the market. 

"It seems, then, that the wine referred to by our Lord must 
have possessed chemical properties very different fi-om those of 
modem wines. Wines in which the fermentation has ceased, 
still wines, have no properties remaining in them which would 
render it unsafe to put them into any bottles, new or old, which 
are sound and fitted to receive them. Such wines have no ten- 
dency to burst botties. The other kind of wines, sparkling or 
effervescing wines, are not fit to be put into leather botties at alL 



$2 TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 

The carbonic acid gas with which they are charged would distend 
and crack the leather* or burst open the seams. 

"What, then, was this wine which would be safely preserved 
in new bottles, but would ferment and cause old bottles to burst ? 
The only answer is, that it was wine, the juice of the grape, 
which was as yet unfermented, and contained no alcohol what- 
ever ! 

, " It is well known that extensive wine-growers keep tons of 
tinfermented grape juice, and some of it for as long as ten years. 
It is well known that the ancients kept unfermented grape juice, 
preserved in its sweet state for a full year, and called it semper 
mustum. It is a fact that at this very day, both in France and in 
the East, unfermented wine is made and drunk, and sometimes 
kept for months or years. It is also a fact that to those who 
drink it the flavor appears to become more mellowed and grate- 
ful by the influence of time ; so that no one who drinks this old 
wine straightway desires new, for he says, The old is better. 

" In this wine, in this must is found a Hquid which perfectly 
fulfills the three conditions which are demanded by the terms of 
our Lord's parable. 

" I. If this wine, properly prepared, be put into new bottles, 
it will keep for any length of time without fermenting. 

"2. If, however, this prepared must be put into a leather skin 
which lias before contained wine, fermentation will necessarily 
ensue. Minute portions of albuminoid matter would be left 
adhering to the skin, and receive yeast germs from the air, and 
keep them in readiness to set up fermentation in the new unfer- 
mented contents of the skin. For as soon as the unfermented 
• grape juice was introduced, the yeast germs would begin to grow 
in the sugar and to develop carbonic dioxide. If the must con- 
tained one-fifth sugar, it would develop forty-seven times its 
volume of the gas, and produce a pressure of 34.3 atmospheres, 
/. e.y 1,300 lbs. to the square inch, about ten times the pressure 
which an ordinary high-pressure steam-engine has to withstand. 
No leathern bottle, new or old, could endure this enormous ten- 
sion ! The bottle would burst and the wine would be spilled. 



NEW WINE IN OLD BOTTLES. ' ' '^ 

*' 3. The must, properly enclosed and kept, improves in quality 
and flavor. It is used by modem Turks in many parts of the 
East to this day; and either alone or diluted with water makes a 
palatable, grateful, and cheering beverage. The same wine has 
been imported into England in casks. Non-alcoholic wine has 
been largely and successfully prescribed for fever, consumption, 
and dyspepsia, from some form of which latter malady Timothy 
may have been suffering when St. Paul recommended him to 
* drink no longer water,' but to 'use a little wine.' 

" Let the reader observe that it is not here asserted that 
this must was the wine to which our Lord referred. It 
would be halting logic to argue that because the liquid may 
have been must, therefore it was must. Here, however, is 
a wine which entirely fulfills the three conditions necessary 
to make our Lord's parable really pertinent and applicable to 
the lesson he was teaching at the time. Unless some other 
liquid also called wine can be identified as possessing the 
three properties mentioned above, a candid inquirer will feel 
that a case (bordering closely upon actual demonstration) has 
been made out ; and that he is almost driven to conclude that 
the wine, which was present to the mind of Jesus when He thus 
spoke, and which was familiar to the experience of all to whom 
He was then speaking, was imfermented and non-intoxicating 
wine, 

" It must always be insisted upon, and it ought always to be 
remembered, that 'wine' in Holy Scripture is a general and an 
inclusive term. It is manifest that some wine mentioned in Holy 
Scripture was intoxicating ; but it is certain the word wine is also 
used for the firesh unfermented juice of the grape-, and for the 
must or sweet wine or new wine which was not intoxicating. 
The fiiiit of the vine and the juice of the grape are- symbols of 
heavenly blessings ; the fiery cup which results from fermentation 
is the type of the fierce wrath of God ! 

"When we compare the two assertions, 'Wine is a mocker/ 
and 'Wine maketh glad the heart of man,' it is scarcely possible 



'54 TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 

to believe that the word ^wine^ means the same identical thing 
in both sentences. Yet it seems to be generally assumed that it 
does. Why should such an assumption be made without any 
attempt at proof? Is it usual for any accurate writer to employ a 
word in this way, unless he is aware, and his readers are aware, 
that the word is in fact used to describe two different things? 
Much less is it to be thought that holy men of God, who spake 
as they were moved by the Holy Ghost, could speak otherwise 
than accurately. Now, the juice of the grape in its natural state 
is wholesome and nutritive. It is a cordial and a tonic. But 
after fermentation it loses most, if not all, its nutritious qualities, 
and is indeed a ' mocker.* It is pleasant to the taste, refreshing 
at first to the spirits, but very soon * it bites like a serpent and 
stings like an adder.' The real question is very simple. It is a 
question of fact Is the word 'wine* used in Holy Scripture as 
the name of both these liquids ? That it is so used no impartial 
inquirer can justly deny." — Holy Scripture and Temperance. 

We are told by Swedenborg that a bottle signifies the mind of 
man, because that is the recipient of truth or falsity as a bottle 
contains wine (A. E. 376) ; also botdes signify the knowledges 
which contain truths (A. E. 316) ; new botties signify the pre- 
cepts and commands of the Lord to the Christian Church ; old 
bottles signify the statutes and judgments of the Jewish Church. 
(A. E. 376.) Ferment signifies the false of evil. (D. P. 284.) 

From the above we can readily see why, if we attempt to intro- 
duce the truths of thb new age into minds, however empty they 
may be, which simply contain the old knowledge of a past age, 
all the truths of which have been destroyed by the false of evil 
until evils arc justified and approved, the attempt is a failure ; for if 
we ever succeed in getting some ideas into the knowledges already 
existing in the mind, evil or perverted appetites and passions assail 
until the knowledges are torn asunder and the truths cast out. 

Before new truths can be received, and be retained, there 
must be new bottles, derived fi-om the letter of the Word and 
confirmed thereby, otherwise the bottles will be rent and the truth 



NEW WINE IN OLD BOTTLES. 55 

cast forth. Men must have some desire to know the truth and 
obey it, before they can see the truth or receive it upon so plain a 
question as the duty of total abstinence from intoxicating drinks. 

So on this wine question : true doctrine must be drawn from 
the literal sense of the Word and confirmed by it ; for, we are 
taught, that : 

" Doctrine is not only to be drawn from the literal sense of 
the Word, but it is also to be confirmed by that sense" (S. S. 54) ; 
also, that "The doctrine of genuine truth may be fully drawn 
from that sense." — Ibid,{^t^), Moreover, "True doctrine can- 
not be collected from the spiritual sense of the Word" on the 
wine question any more than it can be upon any other doctrine 
of the Church ; for " Doctrine is not attainable by means of that 
sense, but only capable of receiving illustration and confirmation 
firomit."— /^///.(56). 

Since the Last Judgment, the Lord has poured out bounti- 
fully good and true principles upon the human race. This 
influx firom God has not been limited to any nation, class, or 
religion, but has come down out of the new heavens to the 
universal man, according to efflux. It has quickened his facul- 
ties in the arts, sciences, mechanics, and agriculture. It has 
stirred up the spirit of research in all directions. Men of all 
religions, moved by this divine spirit, have been led to examine 
the Word of God on the wine question. They have brought to 
their aid the divinely appointed handmaid, the natural sciences; 
which sciences, as far as they are true, form a plane of life for 
the influx of Divine Truth out of heaven. 

By means of science we understand the chemistry of wine not 
fermented, and the chemistry of wine fermented ; we also know 
something of the effects of both upon the human body, in health 
and in sickness. We know that alcohol belongs to therapeutics 
and the arts, and not to dietetics. And when it is introduced 
into a healthy human body under the name of wine, whisky, or 
brandy, it flows into its passions and lusts, and excites evil dispo- 
sitions which lead to all forms of vice. 



S6 ' TWO KINDS OF STRONG DRINK- 

STRONG DRINK. 

When strong drink is named in the Word, the natural inference 
is by the men of this perverted age, that reference is made to 
alcoholic dnnks or distilled liquors, for such drinks to-day are 
alone regarded as strong drinks ; but when we remember tliat 
the art of distilling was not discovered until about the sixth 
centiuy of the Christian era, except perhaps in a rude form in 
China and Ceylon, we know, with reasonable certainty, that such 
drinks were not meant. The ancients unquestionably had, as we 
have to-day, other fermented drinks which would cause intoxica- 
tion besides wine. Says the Rev. Wm. Ritchie, of Scotland: 
'^Shechar means luscious drink, or sweet syrup, especially of sugar 
or honey, of dates or of the palm-tree. The Hebrew word is usu- 
ally rendered by the translators of our English Bible ' strong drinkl 
This is not a happy rendering of the original term. The epithet 
'strong,' for which there is nothing equivalent in the Hebrew, 
conveys the idea that the drink is highly intoxicating. But 
Shechavy of itself conveys no such idea. We examine the pas- 
sages where it is used, and we find it in numerous instances 
spoken of along with Yain; and, as we know this latter word is 
a general term to denote the juice of the grape, we conclude 
that Shechar is a general name for liquor made from dates, grain, 
or other fruits, the produce of the vine excepted. We have no 
word in our language equivalent to the Hebrew term Shechar ; 
and it had been better, if, like some others of this class, it had 
been left untranslated in our version of the Scriptures. In this 
case, it would not have suggested to the mind a strong intoxicat- 
ing drink. ' This is true,' says Moses Stuart, ' of neither Yain 
nor Shechar. Both words are generic. The first means vinous 
liquor of any kind and every kind. The second means a cor- 
responding liquor from dates and other fruits, or from several 
kinds of grain. Both liquors have in them the saccharine 
principle, and, therefore, they may become alcoholic, but botli 
may be kept and used in an unfermented state.' " — Scripture Tes- 
timony against Wine. 



TWO KINDS OF STRONG DRINK*' 57 

If the words in the original Sacred Scriptures, which have been 
translated by the term strong drink, in contrast with wine, ever 
denote what we understand by the word strong, it is evident that 
reference must have been had to some quality aside from that 
which resulted from fermentation ; for it is reasonably certain that 
they had no drink stronger to cause intoxication than fermented 
wine. It is supposed by some writers that such drinks were 
prepared by mixing various medicinal or stimulating substances 
with fermented drinks, which, to say the least, is a somewhat 
unreasonable supposition. While opium is strong to stupify, 
ipecac to vomit, jalap to purge, mustard to irritate the skin and 
mucous membranes, nux vomica to cause convulsions, and 
alcohol to cause unnatural excitement and drunkenness,- none of 
these substances are strong in a genuine sense ; for while they are 
strong to cause suffering and disease, they are not strong to 
supply the ordinary wants of the body, by giving nourishment 
and thus strength. The very fact that strong drink in the Word 
sometimes has a good signification, and is classed with oxen, 
sheep and wine, as in Deut. xiv. 26, is evidence that in an 
unpolluted and unperverted state it could neither have been 
fermented, nor have been a drugged drink ; therefore Swedenborg 
says : " That strong drink signifies the truth of the natural man 
derived from the spiritual." (Swedenborg's Index to the A. E.) 
It will be seen that this signification is precisely what we should 
expect, if instead of an unnaturally stimulating, irritating, and 
exciting fluid, it was really what its name signifies, a nourishing, 
strengthening fluid, giving healthy substance to the body. 

Now, we have a plenty of drinks in use to-day, to some of 
which Rev. Wm. Ritchie alludes above, which are really strong in 
a good and true sense ; strong to nourish, and give strength 
without causing unnatural excitement, which consequently have 
unquestionably a good correspondence. Of such drinks we 
have milk ; gruels made with milk or water from the flour or meal 
of our different grains, or by boiling rice or barley ; and the 
ancients, by adding their sweet boiled grape juice or good wine, 
had a palatable and delightful drink, entirely harmless, and eyf ry 



5^ I? TWO KINDS OF STRONG DRINTC ' "^ 

way u^fiil. The Scotsman of to-day, while resting from his 
work, readily prepares a really strong beverage by adding oatmeal 
to the water which he drinks. The early setders of New 
England had such a drink in their bean porridge, which they 
.carried into the fields for their dinners. 

But we all know that these healthy, life-giving drinks, like 
unfermented wine, may become polluted by fermentation ; or 
may be mingled with fermented wine, and thus become injurious, 
poisonous, and destructive when used as drink ; consequentiy 
Swedenborg tells us "That to mingle strong drink signifies to 
confirm falses." (Swedenborg's Index to A. E. 379.) 



To fill a vacant space on this page, the following extract from 
a brief reply of the Rev. Theodore L. Cuyler to Dr. Crosby's 
open letter, is inserted : 

" As to this whole contested question of the relation of God's Word to 
the use of alcoholic beverages, we believe the following positions impreg- 
nable : 

"I. The Bible in various passages points out the evils of intoxicating 
drinks. It never pronounces a blessing on intoxicants, but often warns us 
against tampering with them. 

" 2. The Bible in several passages commends abstinence from alcoholic 
beverages. But there is not a single line in God's Word which condemns 
total abstinence. 

" 3. The Bible is to be studied as a whole; and the whole spirit of this 
blessed Word from heaven is the spirit of self-control, sobriety, purity,' 
avoidance of temptation, and of self-denial for the sake of our fellow-men. 

" On these views of God's Word the total abstinence army are an unit; 
against these views the " gates of hell " can never prevail. But even if the 
Bible did not contain a single syllable about wine or strong drink, we have 
an inexhaustible armory of arguments for entire abstinence in science, medi- 
cal testimony, common sense, and the first principles of philanthropy. 

" Chancellor Crosby's wild assault on our reform is already working a 
vast benefit. The volume of replies issued from our publication house ought 
to be circulated by the thousands." 



CHAPTER V, 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 



We have seen that, from a careful examination of the Sacred 
Scriptures, we have an abundance of evidence that two kinds of 
wine, one good and the other bad, are mentioned therein. Says 
the Rev. Dr. Herrick Johnson, of Philadelphia : 

" Now, what if there is another kind of wine spoken of in the 
Word of God that cannot possibly be intoxicating, where ferment- 
ation and the consequent presence of alcohol are out of the 
question — ^what then ? Why, is it not reasonable and consistent, 
the demand alike of common sense and common conscience, 
to regard this as the wine commended in Scripture as a blessing 
making glad the heart of man. 

"Gedaliah, made governor by the King of Babylon over the 
cities of Judah, thus commanded the Jews (Jer. xl. lo) : 'Gather 
ye wine, and summer fruits, and oil, and put them in your 
vessels.' And the record is, * they gathered wine and summer 
fruits very much.* The Bible also speaks of 'presses bursting 
with new wine,* of ' wine found in the cluster ; ' and it says of 
this wine, and of this only, and in this very connection, * a bless- 
ing is in it.* Here is frequent reference to the pure, unfermented 
juice of the grape as just trodden out of the presses, just gathered 
from the vintage, and even as found in the cluster. And here 
this grape juice is repeatedly, and by the Jews themselves, in 
their own Scriptures, called wine both yayin and Hrosh, 

"There is no exploit of logic that can make any sane man 
believe this to be the very same wine elsewhere called *a mocker.' 
The deceitful, subtle, serpent element has not yet entered it ; 
for alcohol requires time and a process for its formation. It is 
the simple, unfermented juice of the grape, just as cider right out 
bf the press is the simple, unfermented juice of the apple. And 

(69) 



6o WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

as such, God says, a blessing is in it Here, then, is the scrip- 
tural distinction between wine and wine. It is not made to suit 
a modem exigency. God's Word makes it. Is it only a 'hair- 
breadth' distinction ? Is there nothing more than that between 
' a blessing* and ' a mocker * ? Each was called wine by the Jews, 
because wine [yayini is a generic word applied to the juice of 
the grape ia all conditions, whether sour or sweet, old or new, 
fermented or unfermented. 

" Let one thing more be now proved, and the whole case is 
too clear for question. Were the ancients in the habit of 
preserving and using as such, free from firmsntation, this juice 
of the grape which they called wine ? Beyond all doubt they 
were. The evidence is to be found in almost any classical 
authority. So say Plato, Columella, Pliny, Aristotle. So indicate 
Horace, Homer, Plutarch. Some of these ancient writers give 
in detail the very processes of boiling, filtering, and sulphuriza- 
tion by which the wines were preserved from fermentation. 
Anthon, in his * Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities,' 
Archbishop Potter in his 'Grecian Antiquities,* Smith in his 
' Dictionary of the Bible,* and many other competent scholars 
confirm and support this position. Moiss Scuart, that prince of 
philologists, says, ' Facts show that the ancients not only preserved 
wine unfermented, but regarded it as of a higher flavor and 
finer quality than fermented wine. Facts show that it was, and 
might be, drunk at pleasure without any inebriation whatever. 
On the other hand, facts show that any considerable quantity of 
fermented wine did and would produce inebriation.* There is 
no ancient custom with a better amount and character of proof 
than this." 

Rev. Dr. E. Nott, late President of Union College, in his 
fourth lecture says: "That unintoxicating wines existed from 
remote antiquity, and were held in high estimation by the wise 
and good, there can be no reasonable doubt. The evidence is 
unequivocal and plenary." * * * "We know that then, as now, 
inebriety existed ; and then, as now, the taste for inebriating wines 
may have been the prevalent taste, and intoxicating wines the 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 6l 

popular wines. Still unintoxicating wines existed, and there were 
men who preferred such wines, and who have left on record the 
avowal of that preference." — NoU (Lon. ed. p. 85). 

Professor Moses Stuart, says : "Wine and strong drink are a 
good, a blessing, a token of divine favor, and to be ranked 
with corn and oil. The same substances are also an evil. Their 
use is prohibited ; and woe is denounced to all who seek for 
them. Is there a contradiction here — a paradox incapable of 
any satisfactory solution ? Not at all. We have seen that these 
substances were employed by the Hebrews in two different 
states ; the one was a fermented state, the other an unfermented 
one. * * * Is there any serious difficulty now in acquitting 
the Scriptures of contradiction in respect to this subject ? I do 
not find any. * * * i can only say, that to me it seems 
plain — so plain that no wayfaring man need to mistake it. 

" My final conclusion is this, viz. : that, whenever the Scrip- 
tures speak of wine as a comfort, a blessing, or a libation to 
God, and rank it with such articles as corn and oil, they mean — 
they can mean — onfy such wine as contained no alcohol that 
could have a mischievous tendency ; that wherein they denounce 
it, prohibit it, and connect it with drunkenness and revelling \ 
they can mean only alcoholic or intoxicating wine. 

" If I take the position that God's Word and works entirely 
harmonize, I must take the position that the case before us is ai 
I have represented it to be.*' 

Rev. Dr. William Patton, in his excellent work on "Bible 
Wines and Wines of the Ancients," says : 

"We cannot imagine that Pliny, Columella, Varro, Cato, and 
others were either cooks or writers of cook-books, but were 
intelligent gentlemen moving in the best circles of society. So 
when they, with minute care give the recipes for making sweet 
wine, which will remain so during the year, and the processes 
were such as to prevent fermentation, we are persuaded that 
these were esteemed in their day. That they were so natural 
and so simple as to like these sweet, harmless beverages is rather 
in their favor, and not to be set down against them. That there 



62 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

were men in their day, as there are many in ours, who loved and 
used intoxicating drinks, is a fact which marked their degradation. 

" Sweet is grateful to the new-born infant It is loved by the 
youth, by the middle-aged, and by the aged. This taste never 
dies. In strict keeping with this, we find that the articles, in their 
great variety, which constitute the healthful diet of man, are 
palatable by reason of their sweetness. Even of the flesh of fish 
and birds and animals we say, ' How sweet ! * 

"Whilst this taste is universal, it is intensified in hot climates. 
It is a well- authenticated fact that the love of ^ sweet drinks is a 
passion among Orientals. For alcohol, in all its combinations, 
the taste is unnatural and wholly acquired. To the natural 
instinct it is universally repugnant'* 

After speaking of the pure blood of the grape, the Rev. Dr. 
Samson says : 

"The second product of the grape, and next in purity, is 
doubtless the debsh. When, by English and other translators of 
the Reformation period, this word was rendered, according to 
the best lights of their day, ' honey,' — the East was shut up to 
Christian scholars. It was a striking ordering of Providence that 
just before the expedition of Napoleon into Egypt, about a. d. 
1800, which led on to the opening of the Bible lands to Christain 
exploration, a leader among German rationalists, replied to by 
Hengstenberg, maintained that the writer of the Book of Genesis 
could have known nothing about Egypt, or he would not have 
suggested that Jacob sent down a present of 'honey' to Pharaoh 
(Gen. xliii. 11). The modem traveller finds everywhere in the 
ancient land of Jacob's inheritance that the juice of the sweet 
grape is boiled down to a syrup, still called by the old name dibsy 
whose spicy and nectar-Hke sweetness makes it one of the most 
delicious of condiments; while, at the very location whence 
Jacob sent it to Pharaoh, at Hebron, it is prepared in great 
quantities and sent to Egypt as an article of trade. 

" It is this syrup with which it is repeatedly declared by Moses 
the land of promise 'flowed' (Ex. iii. 8), etc. ; and though the 
honey of bees, gathered mainly from the grapes, is, when flowing 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 63 

from the comb, called by the same name, because it is substan- 
tially the same article (as Jud. xiv. 8, i Sam. xiv. 25, 29), yet the 
debsk of Moses is almost always the product of the grape pre- 
pared by boiling. In only three cases, out of nearly fifty, does 
the word refer to the product prepared by bees rather than by 
man." 

" There is abimdance pf evidence," says the Rev. Dr. Patton, 
" that the ancients mixed their wines with water ; not because 
they were so strong, with alcohol, as to require dilution, but 
because, being rich syrups, they needed water to prepare them 
for drinking. The quantity of water was regulated by the rich- 
ness of the wine and the time of year." 

" Those ancient authors who treat upon domestic manners 
abound with the allusions to this usage. Hot water, tepid 
water, or cold water was used for the dilution of wine according 
to the season. * Hesiod prescribed, during the summer months, 
three parts of water to one of wine.' * Nicochares considers two 
parts of wine to five of water as the proper proportion.* 
'According to Homer, Pramnian and Meronian wines required 
twenty parts of water to one of wine. Hippocrates considered 
twenty parts of water to one of the Thracian wine to be the 
proper beverage.* *Theophrastus says the wine at Thasos is 
wonderfully delicious.* Athanaeus states that the Taeniotic has 
such a degree of richness or fatness that when mixed with water 
it seemed gradually to be diluted, much in the same way as Attic 
honey well mixed." — Bible Commentary (p. 17). 

How many of the advocates of fermented wine, of our day, 
would be satisfied with one part of their wine to twenty parts of 
water, or even one of wine to five of water ? But we can readily 
understand howaman,of unperverted taste, would be abundantiy 
satisfied with one part of the thick boiled wines of the ancients 
to twenty of water. 

" The annexed engraving of the Thermopolium is copied from 
the scarce work of Andreas Baccius {De Nat Vinorum Histy 
Rome, 1597, lib. iv., p. 178). The plan was obtained by him- 
self, assisted by two antiquaries, fi-om the ruins of the Diocletian 



^4 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 



Baths (Rome). Nothing can more clearly exhibit the contrast 
between the ancient wines and those of modern Europe than 
the widely different modes of treating them. The hot water 
was often necessary, says Sir Edward Barry, to dissolve their 
more inspissated and old wines." — Kitto (ii. p. 956). 




The prohibition of intoxicating wines to women was enforced 
by the severest penalties. " Plato, Aristotle, Plutarch, and others 
have noticed the hereditary transmission of intemperate propen- 
sities ; and the legislation that imposed abstinence upon women 
had unquestionably in view the greater vigor of the offspring — 
the ' mens sana in corpore sand* (a healthy mind in a healthy 
body)." — Bible Commentary (p. 72). 

Surely if fermented wine were a good and useful article, neces- 
sary for health and happiness, women who are bearing, nursing, 
and rearing children would seem to need it if any one needs it ; 
but the ancients did not think that they needed fermented wine. 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 65 

ANCIENT METHODS OF PRESERVING WINE SO AS TO PREVENT 
FERMENTATION. 

" The laws of fermentation are laws of nature, and work always 
under the same circumstances. 

" I. There must be saccharine matter and gluten. 

" 2. The temperature must not be below 50"^ nor above 75° 
Fahrenheit. Under 50° it does not ferment, over 75" it turns 
to vinegar by a first and direct fermentation. 

"3. It must not be too thick, like syrup. It must be of the 
proper consistency. 

" Experience demonstrates that grape juice never undergoes 
vinous fermentation in the grape. Science says that this is 
prevented by the absence of two conditions : 

" I. The gluten is deposited in separate sacs, or cells, and so 
kept from the saccharine matter. 

" 2. The saccharine matter is kept from the oxygen of the 
atmosphere, which is needed to change the saccharine matter 
before it can set up the process of vinous fermentation. Grapes 
rot on the vine, but do not turn to alcohol. Nature never pro- 
duces alcohol. 

" It is also matter of experience that a warm climate produces 
sweet fruits ; a cold season gives us sour fruits. The change is 
manifest. 

" Palestine is a hot climate. During the season for gathering 
the grapes the temperature is seldom as low as 100°. Nature 
provides for souring and decaying the grapes, but • does not 
provide for vinous fermentation, which is impossible at a temper- 
ature above 75°. 

"Were the Jews and ancients acquainted with any process for 
preserving the juice of the grape, the unfermented wine ? They 
used various processes to secure this result : 

" I. They excluded the air from the sweet wine. 
" 2. They boiled down the juice to the consistency of syrup. 
" 3. They filtered it and so broke its power by removing its 
gluten. 



66 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

" 4. They kept it cool and excluded from the air till the gluten 
subsided, then drew off the wine, which was safe from fermenta- 
tion. 

" 5. They also used sulphur to neutralise the yeast or gluten." 

" Proof is overwhelming that they did use these modes of 
preserving the unfermented wines." — fVines of the Bible ^ by Rev, 
Dr. C, H. Fowler. 

" Some persons tell us," sajrs the Rev. William Ritchie, of 
Scotland, " this fermentation is a vital principle, and that there- 
fore the thing produced is a good creature of God. *They 
forget entirely,' says Liebig, 'that the fermentation of grape 
juice begins with a chemical action,^ which is opposed to a vitOrl 
one. * It is contrary to all sober rules of research to regard the 
vital process of an animal or a plant as the cause of fermentation,' 
*The opinion that they take any share in the morbid process 
must be rejected as an hypothesis destitute of all support.' 'In 
all fungi, analysis has .detected the presence of sugar, which, 
during their vital process^ is not resolved into alcohol and car- 
bonic acid, but, after their death, from the moment that a change 
in their color and consistency is perceived, tlu vinous fermenta- 
tion sets in, it is the very reverse of the vital process to which 
this must be ascribed.' ^Life is opposed to putrefaction,' " 

Count Chaptal, the eminent French chemist, says : " Nature 
never forms spirituous liquors ; she rots the grape upon the 
branch, but it is art which converts the juice into (alcoholic) 
wine." It is an invention of man. 

Dr. Henry Monroe, in his Lecture on Alcohol, says : "Alcohol 
is nowhere to be found in any product of nature ; was never 
created by God ; but is essentially an artificial thing prepared by 
man through the destructive process of fermentation." 

Although we called attention to several of these methods, and 
gave the testimony of ancient writers upon this subject, and 
showed conclusively from their writings that some of their most 
celebrated wines, especially their old wines, were unfermented, 
and consequently unintoxicating ; still not a single New Church 
writer, in replying to us, so far as we are aware, has even noticed 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. t^ 

tfiis testimony ;l>ut all have assumed, without any hesitation, that 
there was no other wine used at the various periods when the 
Sacred Scriptures were written but fermented wine. 

We gave the testimony of Horace; bom 65 b. c, that there 
was no wine sweeter to drink than the Lesbian, and that it 
was perfectly harmless and would not produce intoxication. Of 
Aristotle, bom 384 years b. c, that the wine of Arcadia was so 
thick that it was necessary to scrape it from the skin bottles in 
which it was contained, and to dissolve the scrapings in water 
before drinking it ; which, of course, is conclusive evidence that 
it was not fermented, as fermentation destroys the glutinous 
matter of wine, and thus makes the wine thin. We gave also the 
testimony of Virgil, born 70 b. c, of Columella, cotemporaneous 
with the Apostles, of Plutarch and Pliny,that in their day, it was 
customary to preserve wine by boiling it ; and also the testimony 
of many other ancient authors that unfermented wines were pre- 
served and used, and were highly esteemed, and regarded and 
spoken of as the best wines. It is difficult to see how any man, 
who desires to know the tmth upon this subject, can disregard 
all this testimony ; but, as our New Church writers have done so, 
it seems necessary to produce further testimony, which we shall 
do without repeating to any considerable extent, the quotations 
from ancient and more recent writers contained in our tract. 

PRESERVING WINE AND PREVENTING FERMENTATION BY BOIUNG. 

Among the ancients, Pliny, Columella, Varo and Cato were 
men of distinction, and they gave minute attention to the preser- 
vation of unfermented wines. 

Boiling the recendy expressed juice of grapes was undoubtedly 
one of the earliest and most frequent methods of preserving wine 
from fermentation. 

"Archbishop Potter, bom a.d. 1674, in his 'Grecian Antiqui- 
ties' (Edmburgh edition, 1813, vol ii. p. 360), says: *The 
Lacedaemonians used to boil their wines upon the fire till the 
frfth part was consumed ; then after four years were expired 
began to drink them.' He refers to Democritus, a celebrated 



.63* WINES OF THE ANaENTS. 

philosopher, who travelled over the greater part 6f Europe, Asia, 
and Africa, and who died 361 b. c. ; also, to Palladius, a Greek 
physician, as making a similar statement. These ancient autho- 
rities called the boiled juice of the grape witu, and the learned 
archbishop brings forward their testimony without the slightest 
intimation that the boiled juice was not wine in the judgment of 
the ancients." — Bible Wines. 

Adams' "Roman Antiquities," first published in Edinburgh, 
1 79 1, on the authority of Pliny and Virgil, says : "In order to 
make wine keep, they used to boil [decoquerre'\ the must down 
to one-half, when it was called de/rutum, to one-third, sapa, " 

"Virgil, the sweet poet of nature," says .the Rev. Dr. G. W. 
Samson, "writing under Augustus, pictures (Georg. i. 295) the 
delight of the winter evenings in his own rural home ; when the 
laborer sat by the fire sharpening his tools ; and his wife, beguiling 
their common toil with her song, was boiling the ' flowing sweet 
must' \dulcis musti humorem\ ; this picture revealing how the 
product of the grape was used by the simple children of nature 
at that day. 

"As artificial heating drives off water, whose presence is essen- 
tial to fermentation, the boiling of grape juice to a syrup, the 
dedks of the Hebrews and the dibs of the Arabs, prevents the 
formation of alcohol." 

"Pliny says, 'some Roman wines were as thick as honey,* 
also that the 'Albanian wine was very sweet or luscious, and that 
it took the third rank among all the wines.' He also tells of a 
Spanish wine in his day, called ' inerticulum' — that is, would not 
intoxicate — from *iners,' inert, without force or spirit, more 
properly termed 'justicus sobriani,' sober wine, which would 
not inebriate. ' ' — Anti-Bac. (p. 221). 

"Columella, who lived in the days of the Apostles, says the 
Greeks called this unintoxicating wine ' Amethyston,' from 
Alpha, negative, and methusis, intoxicate — ^that is, a wine which 
would not intoxicate. He adds that it was z. good wine, harmless, 
and called 'iners,' because it would not affect the nerves, but at 
the same time it was not deficient in flavor." — A. ^. (p. 221). 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 69 

Boiling is beyond question one of the best, if not the very best 
method of preserving wine, as the entire substance of the wine is 
preserved, with the exception of the water, which can be readily 
restored when it is required for use. In most of the other 
methods, where foreign substances are not used to prevent 
fermentation, the gluten, which is an important part of the fruit of 
the vine, is removed ; consequently we find that in all ages, even 
. down to the present day, boiling has been a very frequent resort 
in wine-growing countries. 

Names may change, but substances do not change with the 
change of their names. Certain missionaries, a few years ago, 
declared that there were no unfermented wines used in Palestine 
at that day, and that by careful inquiry they could not hear of 
any such wines; but it is evident, from the testimony which 
we shall produce from other missionaries and travellers, that if 
they had inquired for boiled grape juice or dibs, and had been 
familiar with the writings of the ancients who describe the method 
of boiling, and who called such boiled grape juice wine, and 
spoke of it as the best wine, they would have made no such . 
statements as they did ; for they were undoubtedly honest, but 
lacking in a knowledge of the necessary facts, which would have 
enabled them to speak understandingly. The time was in those 
lands when fermented wine was not called wine at all, but it 
existed under other names, and unfermented wine was the wine ; 
and the fact that at the time the above missionaries wrote, fer- 
mented wine had come to be the only wine passing by the name 
of wine, does not destroy the fact that, notwithstanding, their 
testimony, there is a wine to-day prepared precisely as the 
ancients in the days of the Apostles prepared their wine, which 
they called wine. Rev. H. Holmes, American missionary at Con- 
stantinople, in regard to the supposition that among the ancients 
the chief product of the vine was fermented wine, says :"Now, as 
a resident in the East, we believe sufficient facts can be adduced 
to render it extremely probable that this supposition is erroneous, 
and that the fabrication of an intoxicating liquor was ne7fcr the 
chief object for which the grape was cultivated among the Jews." 



JO WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. -, 

W. G. Brown, who travelled extensively in Africa, Egypt, and 
S)n*ia, from A. D. 1792 to 1798, states that "the wines of Syria 
are most of them prepared by boiling immediately after they are 
expressed from the grape, till they are considerably reduced in 
quantity, when they were put into jars or large bottles and pre- 
served for use." He adds, "There is reason to believe that this 
mode of boiling was a general practice among the ancients." 

Volney, 1788, in his "Travels in Syria," vol. ii. chap. 29, says: 
"The wines are of three sorts, the red, the white, and the yellow. 
The white, which are the most rare, are so bitter as to be dis- 
agreeable ; the two others, on the contrary, are too sweet and 
sugary. This arises from their being boiled^ which makes them 
resemble the baked wines of Provence. The general custom of 
the country is to reduce the must to two-thirds of its quantity." 
"The most esteemed is produced from the hillside of Zouk — 
it is too sugary." " Such are the wines of Lebanon, so boasted 
by Grecian and Roman epicures." " It is probable that the 
inhabitants of Lebanon have made no change in their ancient 
method of making wines." — Bacchus (p. 374, note). 

Dr. Bowring, in his report on the commerce of S)n*ia, praises, 
as of excellent quality, a wine of Lebanon consumed in some 
of the convents of Lebanon, known by the name of vino tfor — 
golden wine. (Is this the yellow wine which Volney says is too 
sweet and sugary?) But the Doctor adds, "that the habit of 
boiling wine is almost universal." — Kitto (ii. 956). 

Caspar Neuman, M. D., Professor of Chemistry, Beriin, 1759, 
says : " It is observable that when sweet juices are boiled down 
to a thick consistence, they not only do not ferment in that 
state, but are not easily brought into fermentation when diluted 
with as much water as they had lost in the evaporation, or even 
with the very individual water that exhaled from them." — Nott 
(Lond. ed., p. 81). 

Dr. Thomson says : "The Moslems make no fermented wines ; 
they boil the juice down to preserve it, and they claim to have 
received this custom from the remotest antiquity.* 



Wm^ OF THE ANCIENTS. 7^ 

PRESENT CUSTOMS IN WINE-GROWING COUNTRIES OF EUROPE AND 

ASIA. 

The late Rev. Dr. Duffield, who travelled through Palestine, 
("Bible Rule of Temperance," p. i8o), says: "The modem 
Turks, whose religion forbids the use of fermented wine, make 
use of the inspissated juice of the grape, or 'must,' and carry it 
along with them in their journeys." 

Dr* Jacobus says : " All who know of the wines then used well 
understand the unfermented juice of the grape. The purest 
wines of Jerusalem and Lebanon, as we tasted them, were com- 
monly boiled and sweet, without intoxicating qualities such as we 
here get in liquors called wines. The boiling prevents fermenta- 
tation. Those were esteemed the best wines which were least 
strong." 

Rev. Dr. Eli Smith, a missionary in Syria, in the Bibliotheca 
Sacra for November, 1846, describes the methods of making 
wine in Mount Lebanon as numerous, but reduces them to three 
classes. First: The simple juice of the grape is fermented. 
Second : The juice of the grape is boiled down before fermenta- 
tion. Third : The grapes are partially dried in the sun before 
being pressed. 

Dr. Duff, in the Missionary Record, 1840, describes his journey 
through France to India, and says : " Look at the peasant at his 
meals in the vine-bearing districts ! Instead of milk, he has a 
basin of pure unadulterated blood of the grape. In this, its 
native original state, it is a plain, simple, and wholesome liquid ; 
which, at every repast, becomes to the husbandman what milk is 
to the shepherd ; not a luxury, but a necessary ; not an intoxi- 
cating, but a nutritive, beverage." 

In 1845, Captain Treatt wrote : "When on the south coast of 
Italy last Christmas, I inquired particularly about the wines in 
common use, and found that those esteemed the best were sweet 
and unintoxicating. The boiled juice of the grape is in common 
use in Sicily. The Calabrians keep their intoxicating and unin- 
toxicating wines in separate apartments. The bottles were gene- 



72 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

rally marked. From inquiries, I found that unfermented wines 
Were esteemed the most. It was drank mixed with water. 
Great pains were taken, in the vintage season, to have a good 
stock of it laid by. The grape juice was filtered two or three 
times, and then bottled, and some put in casks and buried in 
the earth. Some keep it in water to prevent fermentation." — 
Dr. Lees' Works (vol. ii. p. 144). j 

Mr. Alsop, a minister of the Society of Friends, wrote to Dr. ' 
Lees in 1861 ("Pre. Dis. of Bible Tem. Com." p. 34) : "The 
syrup of grape juice is an article of domestic manufacture in 
almost every house in the vine districts of the South of France. 
It is simply the juice of the grape boiled down to the consistence 
of treacle. * * * As to the use of ordinary wine, it is almost 
entirely confined to the men. It is proV-erbial that if a young 
woman is known to be in the habit of using it, she is unlikely to 
receive proposals of marriage." 

"The reader should bear in mind and particularly notice that 
a * thick syrup will not undergo vinous fermentation, and that an 
excess of sugar is unfavorable to this process.' But it will undergo 
the acetous, and become sour. This our wives understand. 
For, when their sweatmeats ferment, they do not produce alcohol, 
but become acid, sour. This is not a secondary, but the first 
and only fermentation — ^by the inevitable law that where there is 
a superabundance of saccharine matter and more than 75^ of 
heat, then the vinous fermentation does not take place, but the 
acetous will certainly and immediately commence." — Bible Wines. 

PRESERVATION OF WINE BY EVAPORATION. 

" Evaporation, or perfect dryness, prevents every kind of fer- 
mentation (Watts, n. 635 ; Gmelin, vii. 100). This was easily 
attained by the wine being put in large bottles and suspended in 
the chimney, called fumarium, ' Liquids evaporate at tempera- 
tures below their boiling point* (*Fownes' Chem.,' 10 ed., p. 46). 
The Oriental traveller, Mr. Buckingham ('Travels among Arab 
Tribes,' London, 1825, p. 137), was treated at Cufi: Injey to cakes 
of wine, which he describes as a very curious article, probably 



WINES OF THE ANaENTS. 73 

resembling the dried wine of the ancients, quite hard and dry, in 
shape like a cucumber, capable of being kept fresh and good for 
many months — a welcome treat at all times, and particularly well 
adapted for sick or delicate persons who might require some 
grateful provision that could be carried in small compass without 
risk of injury on the journey. He also describes (p. 140) this 
dried wine as having the consistency of portable soup. Nor is 
solidity or perfect desiccation necessary, for fermentation demands 
a great degree of liquidity, taking place only when the solution is 
sufficiently diluted with water (Watts, ii. 630 ; Gmelin, xv. 268)." 
■ Dr. Kerr, in his " Unfermented Wine a Fact," says: "The 
Persians sometimes boil the duschab (a syrup of sweet wine or 
must) so long that they reduce it to a paste for the convenience 
of travellers, who lay in a stock of it for the journey, cutting it 
with a knife, and diluting it with water to serve as a drink." — 
Travels in Muscovy, Tartary, and Persia, by Adam Olearius, 
Ambassador for Holstein, by Wicquefort (lib. v. 802). 

Olearius adds : " One can reduce five hogsheads to one, say 
some cheniists, and, amongst others, the celebrated Mr. Glaubei, 
by boiling the sweet wine or must down to a fifth part, because 
there is no apparent sign that the wine loses the character it pos- 
sessed before it was boiled ; and, after that, by adding as much 
water as was evaporated, one could restore it to the same quantity 
and give it the same goodness as it formerly had.*' — Ibid,{?>o^). 

KEEPING COOL AND SETTLING THE WINE. ' 

Below the temperature of about 45° fermentation is impossi- 
ble ; and fermentation commences in the gluten, which is a trifle 
heavier than the rest of the wine ; therefore, if the wine is kept 
below that temperature for a few months, or even weeks, the 
gluten will settle to the bottom of the cask as lees ; which, in this 
case, not having been perverted by leaven, have a good corres- 
pondence. Then the wine may be carefully removed from the 
lees, and it will not ferment ; but it will be seen that the wine 
has lost an important part of its substance (the gluten), and 
4 



74 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

therefore it is not so fully the fruit of the vine as it was when 
first pressed from the grape, or as boiled wine is which has 
simply lost a portion of its water, which can be readily restored, 
when the wine is wanted for use ; but this method of preserving 
wine was well known and frequently practiced by the ancients. 

"Cato, the earliest of the so-called * rustic* or agricultural 
writers, about b. c. 200, describes specially the mode of preparing 
must, or unfermented wine, thus : * If you wish to have must all 
the year, put the grape juice in a flask \_amphora'], seal over the 
cork with pitch, and lower it into the cistern \_piscina\. After 
thirty days, take it out ; it will be must all the year' (* De Re 
Rustica,' c. 120). It is worthy of note that the word musium 
first appears in Latin literature in the age of Cato, about b. c. 
200 ; after which it is often met till Pliny's day, three centuries 
later. 

" Columella, the rural writer, more fully than Cato at an early 
age, describes (xii. 29) the mode of preparing unintoxicating 
wine. He says : * That must may remain always sweet, as if it 
were fresh, thus do : before the grape-skins have been put under 
the press, put must, the freshest possible from the wine-vat, into 
a new flask, and seal and pitch it over carefully, so that no water 
can get in. Then sink the flask in cold, sweet water, so that no 
part of it shall be uncovered. Then, again, after the fortieth day 
take it out ; and thus prepared, it will remain sweet throughout 
the year.' ^^ -^Divine Law as to Wines. 

"Smith, in his * Greek and Roman Antiquities,' says: *The 
sweet, unfermented juice of the grape was termed gleukos by the 
Greeks and tnustiim by the Romans — the latter word being 
properly an adjective signifying new or fresh.' * A portion of the 
must was used at once, being drunk fresh.' * When it was desired, 
to preserve a quantity in the sweet state, an amphora was taken 
and coated with pitch within and without ; it was filled with 
mustum lixivium, and corked so as to be perfecdy air-tight It 
was then immersed in a tank of cold fresh water, or buried in wet 
sand, and allowed to remain for six weeks or two months. The 
contents, after this process, was found to remain unchanged for a 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 75 

year, and hence the name, aeigleukos — ^that is, ^semper mustutn^ 
always sweet.' " 

"Chas. Anthon, LL.D., in his ' Dictionary of Greek and Roman 
Antiquities,' gives the same receipt and definitions, and fully sus- 
tains the position that these preparations of the unfermented 
grape juice were by the ancients known as wine." — Bible Wines, 

The modem application of this method of keeping wine unfer- 
mented and unintoxicating was thus detailed by Philip Miller, 
F.R.S., in 1768 : "The way to keep* wine long in the must is to 
tun it up immediately from the press, and, before it begins to 
work, to let down the vessels, closely and firmly stopped, into a 
well or deep river, there to remain for six or eight weeks, during 
which time the liquor will be so confirmed in its state of crudity 
as to retain the same, together with its sweetness, for many 
months after, without any sensible fermentation." — The Garden- 
ers' Diet (8th ed.) Art Wine. 

That the sweet, unfermented juice of grapes, either fi*esh or 
preserved by the various processes we are considering, was called 
wine by the ancients is beyond question. 

"Aristotle says of sweet wme that *it is a wine in name, but 
not in fact — it does not intoxicate,' It had the name, therefore, 
even in his day. Josephus, the Jewish historian, paraplirasing 
the dream of Pharaoh's butler, who dreamed that he took clusters 
of grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and gave the 
cup to Pharaoh, repeatedly calls this grape juice wine. Bishop 
Lowth, 1778, in his 'Commentary' (Isaiah v. 2), says; 'The 
firesh juice pressed firom the grape' was by Herodotus styled 
oinos ampelinqs, that is, wine of the vine." — Wine of the Word, 
by Rev, Dr, Herrick Johnson, 

FILTERING WINE TO PREVENT FERMENTATION. 

The ancients were in the habit of repeatedly filtering their 
wines to prevent fermentation. As we have already stated, fer- 
mentation commences in the gluten, which is a thick, jelly-like 
substance, or the bread portion of the wine, which does not so 
readily pass through fine substances like felt, wool, or linen bags^ 



76 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

or whatever material was used by the ancients in making their 
filters, as the more fluid portions of the wine ; consequendy, by 
repeatedly filtering, and thus separating the gluten, they prevented 
fermentation in the wine which passed the filter; but, it will be 
seen that, as in the case of keeping cool and settling the gluten, 
they lost a valuable and an essential part of the wine, or the part 
which nourishes the body of man as good does his spirit. Still 
this process is vastly superior to the process of fermentation, even 
aside from the latter's contaminating the wine by leaving in it a 
poison which will cause drunkenness, insanity and disease ; for 
fermentation not only destroys the gluten quite as effectually as 
the filter, but it also destroys a large portion of the sugar ; and 
it perverts, precipitates, or changes the vegetable salts which 
the Lord has so carefiiUy organized in the grape for the good of 
man. Fermented wine contains very little of the fruit of the 
vine or of the substances organized therein unperverted. 

"Plutarch, in his 'Symposiacs,' refers to the way of preventing 
the fermentation of wine by filtering, as explained by Dr. Ure. 
Plutarch says : 'Wine is rendered old, ox feeble in strength, when 
it is frequently filtered; this percolation makes it more pleasant 
to the palate ; the strength of the wine is thus taken away without 
any injury to its pleasing flavor. The strength (or spirit) being 
thus withdrawn (or excluded), the wine neither inflames the 
head nor infests the mind and the passions, but is much more 
pleasant to drink. Doubtless, defecation takes away the {spirit, 
or) potency that torments the head of the drinker; and, this 
being removed, the wine is reduced to a state both mild, salubri- 
ous and wholesome,^ Here is a writer on conviviality — one who 
associated with drinkers — ^who asserts that these unintoxicating 
wines were most esteemed. 

"The *Delphin Notes to Horace, lib. i, ode 2, make reference 
to the same mode of preventing fermentation. * Be carefiil to 
prepare for yourself wine percolated and defecated by the filter, 
and thus rendered sweet, and more in accordance with nature, 
and a female taste, ^ Females, as we have seen, were not allowed 
to drink intoxicating wine. It was this kind of wine which Theo- 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 77 

phrastes so appropriately called 'moral wine,^ The mischief 
wrought by fermented wine ought, long since, to have earned for 
it the title of * immoral wine/ 

"Cato, and other ancient writers, give similar testimony. The 
fact that these receipts were furnished to the public is very good 
evidence, of itself, that such wine was in use. 

"The numerous authorities ah-eady cited to show that unfer- 
mented grape juice is wine, also prove that unfermented wine 
existed. 

" Here, then, in spite of assertions to the contrary, is the thing 
which we call unfermented wine. No quibble about the use of 
terms can avail, for here is the thing, by whatever name it is 
called. The name of it may have been different in different 
ages ; for, as we have seen, Pliny says, that intoxicating wine, 
vinum, was once called temetum; and in the East now, krasion 
has displaced the classical oinos.^^ — Communion Wine, by Rev. 
William Jf. Thayer. 

PRESERVATION OF UNFERMENTED WINE BY THE USE OF SWEET OIL. 

If the fresh juice of the grape, that which results from only a 
moderate amount of pressure, is strained through a linen strainer 
once or more ; or until all fragments of the pulp are removed and 
the wine is perfectly clear, and it is then put into a clean bottle 
imtil it reaches the neck of the bottle, and a stratum of fresh 
sweet oil is poured upon its surface until it reaches the depth of 
an inch or two, and then the bottle is corked, the wine will not 
ferment, but will keep fresh, as has been found by recent experi- 
ments ; thus confirming the efficacy of one of the methods of the 
ancients, as represented by the following engravings. 

"The three cuts," says the Rev. Dr. Samson, "present three 
distinct processes in the most ancient modes of preparing unfer- 
mented wines, alluded to on pages 46, 54-57, and described on 
pages 310-313 (of his work on the 'Divine Law as to Wines' ). 
They are copied from sculptures in relief, richly painted, found 
on the walls of tombs at Beni Hassan, in Upper Egypt. They 
are found in the volumes of Sir Gardner Wilkinson, and were 



78 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

carefully studied by the writer in February, 1848. The tombs 
have, at their entrance, the cartouche of Osirtasen I., the Pharaoh 
of Joseph's day. 

" Fig. I presents the twist-press, the " torcular " of the 
Romans, and specially illustrates the straining of the saccharme 
from albuminous ingredients in grape juice ; the cloth of the sack 
preventing the pulpy albumen from passing out with the watery, 
sugary fluid. Fig. 2, the tread-press, exhibits the immediate 
drawing off and storing of the strained juice, which issues from 
the upper spout of the vat in which the strainer is not seen, pours 
into the upper tub, and is thence dipped fresh into jars and 
stored in the wine-vault. Fig. 3 shows the mode of preserving 
the stored grape juice ; the man at the left with a large tureen, 
pouring the juice through a cylindrical spout into the jars, while 
the youth with an oil-scoop, like those now found in ancient 
tombs in Egypt, Cyprus, and Greece, pours a coating of olive oil 
on the top of the grape juice in the jars. To this custom of 
preserving must and other fruit products by oil, Pliny and Colu- 
mella allude: Columella saying (xii. 19) that * before the must 
is poured into the jars (vasa),* they should be ' saturated with 
good oil'" 

FUMIGATION. 

Dr. Ure states that fermentation may be stopped by the ap- 
plication or admixture of substances containing sulphur; that 
the operation consists partly in absorbing oxygen, whereby the 
elimination of the yeasty particles is prevented. Adams in his 
"Romans Antiquities " on the authority of Pliny and others, says 
** that the Romans fumigated their wines with the fumes of sul- 
phur; that they also mixed with the mustum, newly pressed 
juice, yolks of eggs, and other articles containing sulphur.'* 

Count Dandalo, " On the Art of Preserving the Wines of Italy," 
first published at Milan, 181 2, says : "The last process in wine- 
making is sulphurization : its object is to secure the most long- 
continued preservation of all wines, even of the very commonest 
hoit:'—Nott. 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 



79 




Fig. 2. 




Fig. 3. 



QCQQQ 




So WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

So it will be seen that sulphurization is used to stop fermenta- 
tion in our age. 

Dr. Adam Clarke says : " The Hebrew, Greek, and Latin words 
which are rendered * wine,' mean simply the expressed juice of 
the grape." Hence, we find that different words in the Bible 
are translated " wine," which proves that wine is a generic term, 
and covers the stores of all sorts of wine spoken of in Nehemiah, 
V. 1 8. At the present day, also, the term is used in precisely 
this manner. It may mean grape, ciurant, raspberry, whortle- 
berry, elderberry, madeira, port, cherry, and a hundred other 
wines. It may refer to new, old, sweet, sour, weak, or strong 
wines. It may refer to enforced or unenforced, fermented or 
unfermented wine. Pliny says that, in his day (lib. 14, cap. 22), 
the term covered " one hundred and eighty-five different kinds 
of wine." 

There were various other methods for preserving wine from 
fermentation employed among the ancients, such as mixing it 
with sea water, spices, etc., but it is unnecessary to refer to them 
further, as we have already noticed those most frequently used, 
and those least objectionable. 

MODERN UNFERMENTED WINE. 

Norman Kerr, M. D., of London, in an excellent work just 
published, in reply to Rev. A. M. Wilson, says : " I have, time 
and again, examined grape juic^ hours after, by the interference 
of man, it has been expressed, and found not a trace of alcohol ; 
and I have, by repeated experiment, proved that nothing can be 
easier than the production and preservatioa of unfermented wine. 
The preparation of this nutritious and cheering non-alcoholic 
drink is as speedy, simple, and easy as the manufacture of alco- 
holic liquor is tedious, complex and difficult. 

" Grape juice boiled down to a half, a third, or a fourth of its 
bulk, does not ferment for a very long period, and then only 
slightly and on the surface. Three months ago I prepared speci- 
mens of these unfermented wines of the ancients, defrutunty 
one-half evaporated (Plin. N. H.xiv. ^)ydJxdsapa,sir(eum,ox hep- 



MODERN UNFERMENTED WINE. 8l 

sema, two-thirds evaporated (Plin. ibid. ; Ramsay in Smith, Art. 
Vin.), and I have just finished using them. The blood of the 
grape was poured warm into ordinary glass bottles, which were 
sealed as Avine bottles usually are, and it continued unfermented 
and free from alcohol to the last. And I had the pleasure, not 
long since, of enjoying a refreshing draught from a bottle of 
Eastern wine more than four years old, which I found, on chemi- 
cal examination, absolutely non-alcoholic." 

Rev. Mr. Wilson declared that, " It must have been simply 
impossible for the ancients to have preserved their juice liquid 
and unfermented, unless they had boiled it in air-tight flasks, 
or had expressed it in an atmosphere of hydrogen and carbonic 
acid, or had subjected it to a steaming process, and preserved 
it in vacuo. But they trode their grapes in an open wine-press, 
and pressed out the juice in an open vat, in the open air, so that 
fermentation was inevitable." 

In answer to this statement. Dr. Kerr, after referring to the 
various processes by which wine was preserved free from fermen- 
tation by the ancients, and is so preserved at this day, says : 
*'' It may be very wrong of me to drink the impossible, but 
this morning, and every morning tor the last three weeks, 
I have drank of a most pleasing and refreshing liquor, cheer- 
ing to the heart and nourishing to the body, as thin as any 
full-bodied Tokay, four years and a-half old — ^the pure juice of 
the grape boiled. It was imported in casks from the East;, and, 
after undergoing the great heat of a prolonged voyage on the 
Mediterranean, was poured into Winchester quarts, the corks 
being sealed as those of whisky jars generally are. A month ago 
the liquor, after being carefully examined and found absolutely 
free from alcohol, was decanted, and though it has been kept in 
common wine bottles, it has shown no appearance of ferment- 
ing." 

After stating the fact that grape juice does not begin to fer- 
ment immediately on exposure to the air ; and that a period vary- 
ing from some hours to several days elapses before the process 
of fermentation and the formation of alcohol begin ; notwithstand- 



82 MODERN UNFERMENTED WINE. 

ing Rev. Mr. Wilson's statement to the contrary, Dr. Kerr con- 
cludes as follows : " Therefore, it is as clear as the light of the 
sun at noon, that the existence of unfermented and unintoxicat- 
ing wine amongst both ancients and modems, is not a myth, but 
a fact." 

Of the modem unfermented wine he says : " This nineteenth 
century non-alcoholic wine (a bottle of which, taken at random 
out of my wine-cellar, where it has been for four years, was 
analyzed by Mr. Clifford and myself on March 23, 1878, and 
found absolutely free from alcohol) I prescribe largely in the 
treatment of such diseases as fever, consumption, and that most 
depressing malady, dyspepsia, from one of the Protean forms of 
which Timothy may have suffered when he received the presorip- 
tion of probably a like wine from the Apostle Paul." - 



GRAPE JELLY. 



Grape jelly, if properly prepared, is one of the most palatable, nourishing 
and useful of our articles for food. As a sauce or preserve to eat with 
bread and butter, or on meat, or fish, there is in the estimation of the writer — 
judging from his own taste — nothing which compares with it. It does not 
dissolve readily in cold water; but in hot water, by a little stirring, it will 
dissolve sufficiently to make a palatable and nourishing drink. 

To make grape jelly, select good, clean, ripe grapes^ mash and boil them 
in their own juice until they are well cooked, then strain them either 
through a fine cullender or sieve, or a coarse linen cloth will do. Press 
or rub all of the substance of the grape out which you can, leaving as little 
as practicable beside the skins and seed behind; then boil the juice for a 
short time. If your grapes are " meaty," you will not need to boil long, 
but if there is not much substance to them you will need to boil them 
longer. Add three-fourths of a pound of sugar for every pint of juice, if 
the grapes are grown in a northern latitude; do not boil long after adding 
the sugar — only long enough to thoroughly dissolve the sugar, for long 
boiling with sugar impairs the flavor; pour it into glasses or jars; or can it 
as you do fruit. It will keep. You need not fear any supposed impurities in 
this fruit of the vine, which seem to trouble our wine-drinking friends so 
much, for the Lord has carefully organized this substance in the grape for 
your use, and He has made no mistake. It is the drinkers of fermented 
wine who have made so sad an error. 



CHAPTER VI. 

DRUNKENNESS IN WINE GROWING AND BEER CONSUMING COUNTRIES. 

If we look back upon the history of the world, from the 
days of Noah down to the present time, we find that drunkenness 
has been one of the most fearful and destructive of the evils 
which have afflicted our race. Before the sixth century alcohol, 
brandy, whisky, and all distilled liquors, were unknown in Bible 
lands; consequently all the drunkenness described by ancient 
authors, and ^o severely denounced in the Bible, was from the 
drinking of fermented liquids, and generally of wine. No further 
reply than this would seem to be necessary to show the utter 
absurdity of recommending the use of wine instead of distilled 
liquors, with the expectation of materially modifying the evils of 
drunkenness. The truth is, that with the exception of the very 
lowest class of society, the present drinking habits are generally 
formed by the use of wine and beer ; and if we can only stop the 
use of these fluids we shall have less drunkenness ; for distilled 
liquors are so repugnant to the unperverted taste, that there will 
be less danger of drunkenness than now. 

We take from the Rev. Dr. Samson^s work, " The Divine Law 
as to Wines," the following statements : " It has been so fre- 
quently claimed that if, instead of preaching total abstinence 
firom all intoxicating drinks, we would recommend the use of 
wine and beer instead of distilled liquors, we should do more 
good than by advocating total abstinence. Here the work of 
Honorable Robert C. Pitman, LL.D., Associate Justice of the 
Superior Court of Massachusetts, just issued, and entitled * The 
Problem of Law as to the Liquor Traffic,' comes in with its 
special testimony. While most of the volume is devoted to the 
evils of distilled intoxicants, the 19th chapter, entitled the 
'Milder Alcoholics,' brings out an array of testimony by careful 

(88) 



84 DRUNKENNESS IN WINE GROWING 

observers quite unlikQ that of casual tourists in Europe. Of these 
gathered testimonies, the following are specimens : In France, 
Montalembert said, in the National Assembly, as early as 1850, 
* Where there is a wine-shop, there are the elements of disease, 
and the frightful source of all that is at enmity with the interests 
of the workman.' In 1872, the French Government appointed 
a committee to report on the national vice of wine-drinking. In 
the report of their Secretary, they say, after citing the fearful 
demoralization produced by wine before, during, and after the 
war with Prussia : * There is one point on which the French 
Assembly thought and felt alike. * * * To restore France to her 
right position, their moral and physical powers must be given 
back to her people. * * * To combat a propensity, which has 
long been regarded as venial, because it seemed to debase and 
corrupt only the individual, but the prodigious extension of which 
has resulted in a menace to society at large, and in the tempo- 
rary humiliation of the country, seemed incumbent on the men 
to whom that country has entrusted the task of investigating, and 
remedying its evils.' In Switzerland, Dr. Guillaume, of the Na- 
tional Society for Penitentiary Reform, states, in 1872, that *the 
liberty of the wine-traffic, and intoxication therefrom, is the 
source of fifty per cent, of the crimes committed.' 

" In Italy, Cardinal Acton, late Supreme Judge at Rome, has 
stated that nearly all the crimes at Rome ' originate in the use of 
wine.' Recorder Hill, appointed to gather facts abroad, to 
influence British legislation, reported in 1858, 'Each of the gover- 
nors of state prisons in Baden and Bavaria, assured me that it 
was wine in the one country, and beer in the other, which filled 
their jails.' American legislation as to wines and beers is but 
following modem as well as ancient experience ; for all the 
dangers attending the use of distilled liquors are linked to the use 
of fermented wines." 

"There is an impression," says the Rev. Dr. Fowler, "that 
France is a temperate nation. Men ride through the country in 
the better class of cars and see little of it, because the matchless 
police remove the nuisance ; but let them live there, and live 



AND BEER CONSUMING COUNTRIES. 85 

with the people, and they will change their minds. Listen to the 
witnesses: Our author, J. Fennimore Cooper, says: 'I came to 
Europe under the impression that there was more drunkenness 
among us (Americans) than in any other country. A residence 
of six months in Paris changed my views entirely. I have taken 
unbelievers about Paris, and always convinced them in one walk. 
I have been more struck by drunkenness in the streets of Paris 
than in those of London. Horace Greeley wrote from Paris : 
*That wine will intoxicate, does intoxicate ; that there are con- 
firmed drunkards in Paris and throughout France is notorious 
and undeniable.* M. LeClere says : ' Laborers leave their work, 
derange their means, drink irregularly, and transform into drunken 
debauch the time which should have been spent in profitable 
labor.' A French magazine says : ' Drunkenness is the beginning 
and end of life in the great French industrial centres. At Lille 
twenty-five per cent, of the men, and twelve per cent, of the 
women, are confirmed drunkards.' 

"The Count de Montalembert, member of the Academy of 
National Sciences, said in the National Assembly of France : 
'Where there is a wine-shop, there are the elements of disease, 
and the frightful source of all that is at enmity with the interests 
of the workman.' M. Jules Simon : 'Women rival the men in 
drunkenness. At Lille, at Rouen, there are some so saturated 
with it that their infants refuse to take the breast of a sober 
woman.' Hon. James M. Usher, Chief Commissioner of Massa- 
chusetts to the World's Exposition in Paris, in 1867, says : *The 
drinking habit rnns through every phase of society. I have seen 
more people drunk here than I ever saw in Boston for the same 
length of time. They are the same class of people too.' Hon. 
Caleb Foote, of Salem, Mass., writing from Paris, after large 
investigations, denies, in toto, the theory that the people 
of the wine-producing countries are sober. Dr. E. N. Kirk, 
of Boston, says : ' I never saw such systematic drunkenness as I 
saw in France during a residence of sixteen months. The 
French go about it as a business. I never saw so many women 



S6 DRUNKENNESS IN WINE GROWING 

drank.' Surely there is no lack of testimony. Look at the other 
wine-growing countries. 

" Rev. E. S. Lacy, of San Francisco, six months in Switzerland 
in a wine-growing section, says : * Here more intoxication was ob- 
vious than in any other place it was ever my lot to live in.' Before 
the Legislative License Committee of Massachusetts, Dr. Warren, 
of the Boston Biblical School, seven years a resident in Germany, 
says : * Drunkenness is very common : every evening drunken 
people stagger by my house.* Rev. J. G. Cochran, missionary to 
Persia, says of a wine-producing section ; 'The whole village of 
male adults will be habitually intoxicated for a month or six 
weeks.' Rev. Mr. Larabee, another missionary to Persia, con- 
firms the statement. Even priests coolly excuse their own 
irregularities by the plea of drunkenness. 

"Thirty-five or forty years ago England attempted to suppress 
drunkenness by licensing ale and beer, yet she consumes more 
alcohol per head now than then. The consumption of alcohol 
has increased in the last fifty years one hundred and seventy-five 
per cent. 

" Turn to America. How fares it in California ? The experi- 
ment fails. A State Convention of the fiiends of Temperance, 
in October, 1866, resolved against wine-growing. Conventions 
of Congregational ministers and lay delegates, the same month, 
reached the same result. They are fully convinced that the 
hope of temperance, based on wine, is delusive. This case has 
been tried till the State exceeds, perhaps, all others in corruption. 
Commissioner Wells says : ' California, with her cheap wines for 
temperance, in the year ending June 30, 1867, sold fourteen 
times per head as much alcoholic stuff as Maine did, and more 
than any other State.' 

"Dr. Holland, who, it will be remembered, some time ago 
wrote a book recommending wine as a substitute for alcohol — 
which book is yet quoted as an authority by those who advocate . 
this theory — has, since his late travels in the wine-growing countries 
of Europe, where he had an opportunity to extend his observa- 
tions, declared that his former views were wrong ; and that wine- 



AND BEER CONSUMING COUNTRIES. 87 

drinking is a great producer of drunkenness ; and that if we wish 
America to become a nation of drunkards, we should adopt wine 
as our beverage. 

" These are the facts concerning the wine-growing countries. 
The idea of substituting wine for alcohol in the interest of 
Temperance is absurd. I have protracted this part of the argu- 
ment, because the enemies of this law are seeking to have wine 
and beer excepted from the law. But do it, and you kill the 
law ; and this is what they seek. Beware ! If you make wine 
and beer abound, drunkenness will much more abound. 

" Against this evil plan we can only thunder the facts that the 
countries that manufacture and drink most wine are those that 
use most distilled liquors, and have the largest per cent, of beastly 
wife-beating and child- beating drunkenness. Husbands may tell 
their ragged and pleading wives that they can stop ; they guess 
they know who drives. They can stop if they will ; but the fact 
remains. The hundred thousand drunkards that annually die 
were all moderate drinkers before they settled down into * old 
tubs.* They all tippled a little befor-e they guzzled. There is no 
disguising the fact. Once drinking, there is no way out but to 
face about and let it alone, or go through into hell." 



As the printer does not like to commence a chapter, except at 
the top of a page, and the writer does not like to send out blank 
pages — or parts of such— the reader may expect to find in this 
work, here and there, at the end of the chapters, subjects considered 
which do not legitimately come within the limits of the subjects 
discussed in the preceding chapter. The great aim of the WTiter 
in the preparation and sending forth of this volume, is to expose 
falses, and to impart useful information, and thus benefit his 
fellow-man. 



CHAPTER VII. 

THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER" AND INTOXICATING WINES. 

In the Messenger of February 9th, 1881, appear the following 
editorial comments, in answer to a correspondent ; 

"W. J. P., in our correspondence department, suggests that because 
* falses from evil ' are compared to * such wine and strong drinks as induce 
drunkenness,' the good wine of the Bible must be unfermented. On the 
contrary, we think the * wine that produces drunkenness ' is that which is 
taken in greater quantities than in its proper proportion to food. Wine 
taken with the food, and in proper proportion to it, does not produce 
drunkenness. Wine alone, or out of proportion to good food, may produce 
drunkenness, and hence represent * falses from evil;' that is, truths in the 
character without their corresponding good are changed into * falses from 
evil.'" 

Well, let us cany the editor's interpretation of Swedenborg's 
comparison of falses from evil to intoxicating wine, over to his 
comparison of falses not from evil to waters not pure, for if true 
in the one case it must be true in the other also. 

The suggestion is made, that because falses not from evil are com- 
pared to waters not pure, therefore the good water of the Bible 
must be pure water. On the contrary, exclaims the reasoning of 
the editor oi\}[it Messenger, \f^ think the "water not pure'* which 
may cause disease but not drunkenness, is water which is taken 
in greater quantities than in its proper proportion to food. 
Impure water taken with food, and in proper proportion to it, does 
not produce diseases peculiar to the quality of impure water. In 
other words, there is no wine or water which in itself is impure ; 
it is only rendered impure, because it is not taken in due propor- 
tion with food; even though one may be impure from the 
presence of the poisonous product of leaven (alcohol) — which, 
as we well know is a deadly poison, causing insanity, drunken- 
ness, delirium tremens, and sudden death — or the other with 
arsenic, the action of which is not as terrible in its effects, espe- 



THE "MESSENGER" AND THE WINE QUESTION. 89 

cially when taken with and in due proportion to food, but never- 
theless is to be dreaded by every sensible maix. With an unwar- 
rantable assumption to begin with, and a few grains of apparent 
(not real) truth, scattered tlirough it, it certainly would be difficult 
to find, in the English language, in so few lines, such strange and 
pernicious verbiage ; and this seductive morsel, is sent out by the 
general body of the New Church to homes where dwell our guile- 
less and inexperienced youth. Alas ! Alas ! for our Church. 

It is certainly true that alcohol, fermented wine, arsenic, or 
any other poison, in a given quantity, when mixed or taken with 
food, will not be as readily absorbed and taken into the circula- 
tion, or act as speedily on the mucous membrane of the stomach ; 
and, consequently, will not produce such speedy or violent poi- 
sonous effects as when taken alone, or into an empty stomach. 
But who is to judge when either arsenic or intoxicating wine is 
taken in due proportion to food, as every man is governed 
by his taste or a morbid craving? The Messenger must acknowl- 
edge that poisons are seductive, because they cause an unnatural 
action, followed by an opposite state ; consequently an unnatural 
demand, and an unnatural appetite, which absolutely require an 
increase of the quantity to satisfy the demand and appetite. 
This is not true of any kmd of natural food or drink ; and the 
history of the past shows that no poison is more seductive than 
fermented wine. Commencing with a single glass with food, 
presently more is required ; until, perhaps, at last a whole bottle 
does not give a due proportion to food, according to the actual 
feelings and desires of the drinker. From drinking this seductive 
fluid with food, it is but an easy step, which Words for the Nem 
Churchy it will be seen has already taken, to advocate the drink- 
ing of the social glass of wine — and even whisky — ^when friends 
meet ; and then the life which leads to drunkenness is well be- 
gun ; and the road is clear for the young and old of the New 
Church to march on in the line of drunkards hand in hand to 
wretchedness and crime ; and, if not prematurely cut off, not un- 
frequently to a drunkard's grave. We will ask the Messenger^ in 
all seriousness, if too many of the members of our Church are 



90 - THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER" 

not, at this very moment, travelling that road ; and in too imminent 
danger, to make sach justification and encouragement of this ter- 
rible evil of wine-drinking desirable in its columns ; to say noth- 
ing of the danger of such teaching to the young. 

But, as has been shown above, it is not true that fermented 
wine can be taken in any perceptible quantity with food, or in a 
quantity which the Messenger would evidently justify, with either 
impunity or safety. We have already called attention to the 
great danger of developing an uncontrollable appetite for intoxi- 
cating drinks, by thus using wine ; and now we. will let that able 
physiologist, Dr. Wm. B. Carpenter, speak as to the effects of such 
moderate drinking of intoxicating beverages as the Messenger 
encourages : " It cannot then be imagined that even a small 
habitual excess in diet, induced by the stimulating action of fer- 
mented liquors, can be without its remote consequences upon 
the general system ; even though it may be for a time sufficiently 
compensated by increased activity of the excreting organs. And 
the disorders of the liver and kidneys, which are so frequent 
among those who have been accustomed to this mode of living 
for many years, without (as they believe) any injurious conse- 
quences, are as surely to be set down to it, as are those conges- 
tive and inflammatory diseases of the abdominal viscera, which 
so much more speedily follow habitual excesses in warm cli- 
mates." 

But why this special effort of the editor of the Messenger to 
justify and encourage the use of intoxicating wine ? It is well 
known to the readers of the Messenger that, over a year ago, an 
article appeared in its columns, justifying the use of intoxicating 
drinks ; and that the present writer wrote a somewhat lengthy 
essay, in which he endeavored to show, that according to the 
philosophy of the New Church, the science of correspondences, 
the express teachings of Swedenborg, and the well-recognized 
laws of physiology, alcohol wherever found has an infernal origin ; 
that it is a poison, and one of the most deadly and insidious ; and 
that in all its effects on body and mind, its action is strictly analo- 
gous to the action of falses fi-om evil on the soul of man. He 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 9I 

also produced unquestionable evidence that there were two kinds 
of wine in use among the ancients, and named in the Bible — one 
intoxicating and the otiier not. This essay was violently assailed 
by several writers, and all of the assaults were based upon 
assumptions which had no foundation in truth ; such as that the 
wines spoken of favorably in the Bible were always fermented 
wines, and that fermented wines must be good, because Sweden- 
borg compares fermentation, and the changes which take place 
during the fermentation of wine, and the purification of alcohol, 
to spiritual combats and purification. 

While printing some other articles upon the same side of the 
question on which we stand, the editor accumulated several arti- 
cles in reply to our essay, full of such assumptions ; and two or 
three short articles opposed to the use of intoxicating wine ; and 
printed them all in one number of the Messenger, and then declared 
the discussion in the columns of the Messenger (Ao^^^A \ thus giving 
the writer of this work no opportunity to reply. As the discus- 
sion was opened by an advocate of the use of intoxicating drinks, 
and the writer, of course, not knowing what objections would be 
taken to his article, could not answer them before he knew them, 
the friends of temperance did not feel that they were fairly treated. 
But the writer endeavored to do the best he could, under the 
circumstances, to bring the truth before the minds of New 
Churchmen, therefore he printed what he had to say in the form 
of a tract, and sent it to all New Churchmen whose names he 
could obtain. So much for the past course of the Messenger, 

Well, it so happened, recently, that a respected correspondent 
of the Messenger sent the editor a short extract from Sweden- 
borg, accompanied by three lines, intimating that it was possible, 
after all, that the advocates of intoxicating wines might be mis- 
taken in some of their conclusions and views. The following 
contains the correspondence and extract. 

FAUSES FROM EVILS INTOXICATING WINES AND STRONG DRINKS. 

Editor Messenger, — Perhaps the following passage, from 
No. 1035 of the " Apocalypse Explained," favors the idea that 



.^2 TliE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER » 

the good wine of the Bible is unfermented, and the bad wine is 
. fermented. w. j. p. 

" As to what further respects the insanity, which is signified 
by inebriation and by drunkenness in the Word, it is not from 
falses, but from truths fakified ; the reason is, because truths from 
heaven act into the understanding, and at the same time the 
false from hell, whence arises dissension in the mind and an in- 
sanity like that of a drunkard in the world ; but this insanity only 
takes place with those who are in evil, and have confirmed the 
falses of evil by the Word, for all things of the Word are truths, 
and communicate with heaven, and falses of evil are from hell ; 
but from the falses which are not from evil spiritual inebriation 
does not take place, for those falses do not pervert and destroy 
spiritual truths, which lie inwardly concealed in the truths of the 
literal sense, for they do not thence hatch evil, as do the falses 
which are derived from evil. Falses not from evil may be com- 
pared to waters not pure, which being drunk do not induce 
drunkenness, but falses from evil may be compared to such wine 
and strong drinks as induce drunkenness ; wherefore also that in- 
sanity, in the W^ord, is said to be affected by wine, which is called 
the wine of whoredom, and the wine of Babel in Jeremiah 
li. 7 : 'A cup of gold is Babel in the hand of Jehovah, inebri- 
ating the universal earth, the nations have drank of her wine, 
therefore the nations are insane.' " 

Now, we think almost any intelligent, liberal-minded man, who 
believes in fair play in the discussion of such an important ques- 
tion as the one under consideration, will siy that, after having 
closed the discussion against the advocates of total abstinence at 
the veiy time when, as we have seen, in honor and fairness he 
should not have done so, if he felt under obligation, from any 
consideration whatever, to insert a simple extract from Sweden- 
borg's works, with simply the three lines from his correspondent, 
he might have let it stand without note or comment, and allowed 
his readers to judge as to what is taught therein for themselves. 
But no, sir, this would never do ! For Swedenborg distinctly 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 93 

represents that there are two kinds of wine ; and intoxicating 
wine he compares to falses, and not simply to falses, but to the 
worst kind of falses — ^falses from evil — ^and he illustrates it so 
clearly that no one would be likely to mistake what he means. 
Seeing clearly, it would seem, the emergency, the editor of the 
Messenger takes up his pen, and rushes to the front page of his 
paper, and gives us the paragraph which is presented to the 
reader at the head of this article. Desperate situations require 
desperate measures of defence. Such falses as are used to justify 
the use of fermented wine, in a fair field where both sides .are 
allowed to be heard, cannot long remain covered, for tliey will 
not stand a thorough investigation in the light of this new day. 

Although the columns of the Messenger -wqxq closed against the 
discussion of the wine question more than a year ago ; and the 
editor, as we have seen, could not admit a simple quotation firom 
Swedenborg comparing intoxicating wine with falses from evil, sent 
him by a subscriber, without an attempt to destroy its force, 
yet he does not hesitate, without one word of comment, to ad- 
mit a sermon from a New Church minister containing the fol- 
lowing in the interest of intoxicating wine : " Before fermentation 
the grape juice in the wine fat is turbid, and appears full of im- 
purities. But by fermentation the impurities are removed, the 
lighter ones are thrown off from the surface, and the others sink 
to the bottom, leaving the wine clear and pure for use. The ne- 
cessity for this arises from the fact that in the grape juice are 
many crude particles of foreign substances that cannot be strained 
out, separated, or removed in any other way than by fermenta- 
tion." 

We ask the reader if the latter part of the above statement is 
correct? There may be shreds of the cellular structure of the 
grape and cells of gluten, if heavy pressure has been used, which 
render the juice opaque or turbid ; the ancients we know separated 
them by boiling and skimming. Virgil, born 70 years b. c, says : 

" Or of sweet must boils down the luscious juice, 
And skims with leaves the trembling cauldron's flood." 



94 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER « 

There is no difficulty in separating all substances which caus6 
the fresh grape juice to be turbid, by simply straining or filtering, 
as we all know. 

If the recently expressed juice of grapes is turbid, before 
fermentation has commenced, it is not because it contains sub- 
stances which are impure, as represented in the extract from the 
sermon in the Messenger; but the turbidness is caused by frag- 
ments of the pulp composed largely of gluten ; and, if the wine 
13 allowed to stand in a cool place below 45^, they will settle to 
the. bottom, leaving the wine clear. But if fermentation com- 
mences, this heaviest part of the liquid — ^not the lightest as 
represented by our clerical brother above — ^will rise to the 
surface, for precisely the same reason that the body of a man 
drowned generally rises to the surface of the water within a few 
days, namely, because it is distended with gas which results from 
its own decomposition. In other words, the leaven or ferment 
has destroyed this gluten, and casts it out by the aid of the 
poisonous gas which it has developed. If, instead of being cast 
out by leaven, it is allowed to settle to the bottom as lees, such 
lees have a good correspondence as we shall see hereafter, for 
this gluten is good, useful, and pure ; and it is never impure 
before ferment assails and destroys it, or before decomposition 
commences. 

Can either the reverend gentleman, or the editor of thie Mes- 
senger, tell us what the impurities and foreign substances are, 
which can only be separated by fermentation in the pure juice of 
the grape, called must or new wine, as it flows from the press, 
which Swedenborg tells us has the same signification as wine? 
Is the gluten, which nourishes the body of man as good does his 
soul, one of them ? This is to a great extent destroyed and cast 
out by fermentation. Is the sugar, which is so delightful and 
which corresponds to spiritual delights, one of them ? This is 
destroyed and perverted into alcohol, a most deadly poison. Is 
it the phosphorus which is so necessary for the brain ? This 
either disappears or is polluted during fermentation. Do the vege- 
table acids and alkaline salts, so carefully organized by the Lord 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. ^ , 95 

in the grape to nourish man's tendons and bones, belong to the 
impurities and foreign substances which can only be removed by 
fermentation ? These substances are perverted, changed, or cast 
down as lees by fermentation ; and such lees have not a good 
correspondence, as we shall see. That the bread or nourishing 
* portion of the wine is thus destroyed, to a great extent, by fer- 
mentation chemistry shows conclusively ; and we can demonstrate 
the same fact to our senses by a very easy experiment. Take 
some new wine or must as it flows from the press, boil it and you 
gradually drive off the water ; and by continuing your boiling, it 
becomes a thick syrup ; boil it long enough and it becomes a 
comparatively solid body ; when it cools you have lost nothing 
but water — ^the food portion remains. On the other hand, take 
fermented wine and boil it, and you will find no rich syrup, and 
little or no solid food substance remaining ; for it has been de- 
stroyed by fermentation. Could anything demonstrate more con- 
clusively than this simple experiment, that such of our clergymen 
as attempt to justify the use of fermented wine, by comparisons 
found in the Writings of Swedenborg, have totally mistaken the 
true meaning of such comparisons ? 

Again, as has been intimated elsewhere in this work, during 
the process of spiritual regeneration good overcomes evil and 
casts it out ; and man's spirit is thereby purified, and rendered 
clear, like wine after fermentation; but in the fermentation of 
wine, as we have seen above, exactly the opposite takes place ; 
for almost all of the nourishing substances organized by the Lord 
in the grape for the use of man, which correspond to good, are 
overcome by the ferment, and the sugar is often entirely de- 
stroyed, if the ferment has had a chance to thoroughly complete 
its work, and either changed or destroyed, and precipitated as 
lees, cast out in the form of poisonous gases, or remain in, as alco- 
hol and vinegar, to pollute the wine and to render it a seductive 
and poisonous fluid, which will cause disease, drunkenness, and 
insanity, if used by man as a drink. 

Again : if the grape juice, as it flows from the press, is so full 
of impurities which can only be removed by fermentation, per- 



g6 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER »» 

haps the author of the above sermon can tell us how it happens 
that Swedenborg declares positively, in a general declaration, that 
"must signifies the same as wine, viz., truth derived from the 
good of charity" (A. E. 695), and that new wine is the Divine 
Truth of the New Testament, consequently of the New Church 
(A. R. 316). It is quite certain that neither party to this con- 
troversy would be willing to admit that the must and new wine, to 
which Swedenborg refers above, can be must and new wine ' 
undergoing the process of fermentation, which are hot, and 
muddy from heterogeneous substances which have resulted from 
the destructive action of ferment upon the juice of the grape. 
We are all, then, compelled to admit that unfermented must and 
new wine have the same signification as wine ; and, if they have the 
same signification, is it not certain that they have the same com- 
position — are, in fact, the same fluid only modified by age ? The 
ancients, we are told by ancient authors, as we have seen, did 
not regard their boiled wines as ripe enough for use until they 
were four years old ; and such wines two centuries old, we are 
informed, were not unknown. 

Is it possible that any intelligent reader of the Writings of Swe- 
denborg, who has carefully examined this whole subject in the light 
thereby afforded, and in the light of science, can for a moment 
suppose that fermented wine, in which such a large portion of all 
that corresponds to good has been destroyed, and in which even 
the water contained therein is polluted by alcohol, the product of 
fermentation and vinegar which results from the next process of 
decay, can be the wine which is and ever has been, a blessing to 
man. "Good wine is, and always will be, found at the 'feast of 
fat things, full of marrow,' which the Lord is constantly offering 
man on the mountain of his love^'wine on the lees, well refined.' 
There is no poison in the wine which 'makes glad the he^rt of 
man,' none in that which the good Samaritan poiu-ed into the 
wounds of the man who fell among thieves ; none in that which 
cheers but does not inebriate in declining age. The highest and 
most holy, earthly emblem of the truth which is divine is wine." 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 97 

The Word of the Lord, the ^Tilings of the Church, modem 
science, and the common sense of mankind, based on common 
observation of its effects when used, all tell us, as we have seen, 
that such a wine is never a wine which has been polluted by fer- 
ment. But as we have considered Swedenborg's comparisons more 
fully in our replies to writers in the New Jerusalem Magazine, and 
Words for the New Chuixh, it is unnecessary to say more here. 

The Rev. Joseph Cook, in a sermon, speaking of the conse- 
quences and danger of moderate drinking, says : 

" Do you say that I am declaiming now, and leaving the ground of hard, 
stern facts? How many of your moderate drinkers can be insured on 
the same basis as total abstainers? This is a very practical question. 
Since I came to England, I have been studying up the history of some 
of your life assurance societies, and I hold in my hand literal extracts 
from their own documents — not temperance publications at all; and the 
great outcome is that the total abstainer is paid from 7 or 10 up to 15 and 
1 7 per cent, bonus over and above the moderate drinker. That is an actual 
result; that is not the fancy of sentimentalism; that is a broad, indisputable 
fact which Britons ought to respect as the result of experience. Not long 
ago, one of the assurance societies was addressed on this point, and made, 
through its secretary, the following report — I have the original letter in my 
possession — * During the past sixteen years we have issued 9,345 policies on 
the lives of non-abstainers, but are careful to exclude any who are not 
strictly temperate, and 3,396 on the lives of abstainers; 524 of the former 
have died, but ninety-one only of the latter, or less than half the propor- 
tionate number, which, of course, is 190.' Less than half the number of 
abstainers have died compared with the number that have died among non- 
abstainers who were strictly temperate; and this is after an experience of 
sixteen years. 

" Are life insurance societies to be allowed to go beyond the Church in 
their regard for the health of men, body and soul ? It is to be remembered 
that many whose hves are assured as those of total abstainers were not 
always abstinent. The contrasted figures will grow yet more striking when 
the abstainers are such from birth. These societies are not governed ac- 
cording to Biblical rules ; they are not governed by this or that theory in 
science. Theirs is stern common-sense applied to a selfish problem, and 
the outcome of It, under long experience, is like a peal of thunder from 
Sinai. It is high time for the pulpit, it is high time for the pew, it is high 
time for the young men to arouse themselves when such are the signs of the 
times in secular societies. Here is the sea rising in a tide that kisses the Alps.'* 

5 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE "new JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" AND THE WINE QUESTION. 

Several articles have appeared in the New Jerusalem Magazine ^ 
justifying and favoring the use of fermented wine, and its editors 
have refused to admit any reply. One of these articles we noticed 
in our tract on " Pure Wine,'* and the most important part of it 
will be found in the chapter on *^ Words for the New Church" in 
this work, to which we call the attention of the reader, conse- 
quently it is unnecessary to notice it further here. 

In No. XL. (June, 1880), the reader will find the most skillful 
and adroit attempt which, within our knowledge, has ever been 
made to justify the use of intoxicating drinks by or firom the 
Writings of Swedenborg. The article is lengthy and strictly 
partisan; and the argument which, taken by itself, is quite 
plausible, is based upon a single paragraph from the "Arcana ;" 
but, as the reader will observe, it ignores the pliilosophy of 
Swedenborg as to the origin of good and evil uses, and leaves 
unnoticed a large number, if not hundreds of passages in his 
works, which teach a very different doctrine ; and the express, 
positive declarations of Swedenborg as to the inherent quality of 
fermented wine. But we will insert the essential part of the 
article from the Magazine, so that our readers may have an 
opportunity to judge for tliemselves, for we wish them to view both 
sides of this important question. The truth is what we all should 
desire, that it may be a lamp unto our feet ; and if we would 
travel safely we must walk in its light, and allow neither precon- 
ceived ideas nor our sensual appetites to blind us, " so that hav- 
ing eyes we see not." The Magazine writer says : 

" has pure fermented substance a good CORRESPONDENCE ? 

" It would seem that no doubt can remain upon this point 
to one who recognizes the truth of what Swedenborg teaches 

(98) 



THE "MAGAZINE" AND THE WINE QUESTION. 99 

upon the subject. In tlie 'Arcana,' 7906, he says: 'That the 
leaven denotes the false may be manifest from those passages 
where leaven and leavened, also where unleavened, are named, as 
in Matthew Jesus said : 'Take heed and beware of the leaven of 
the Pharisees and of the Sadducees/ afterward, the disciples 
understood that he had not said that they should beware of the 
leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sad- 
ducees (Matt. xvi. 6-12), where leaven manifesdy denotes false 
doctrine. Inasmuch as leaven signifies the false, it was forbidden 
to sacrifice upon what was leavened the blood of the sacrifice 
(Ex. xxiii. 18, and xxxiv. 25) ; for by the blood of the sacrifice 
was signified holy truth ; thus truth pure from all falsity. It 
was also ordained that the meat offering, which was offered 
upon the altar ' should not be baked with leaiven* (Lev. vi. 17), 
and that 'the cakes and wafers also should be unleavened' (Lev. 
vi. II, 12, 13). 

"But notwithstanding these laws against leaven, and being 
baked with leaven, it is most remarkable that, as Swedenborg 
proceeds to say, truth cannot be purified firom the false without 
what answers to leavening. He says : 

*As to what further concerns what is leavened and unleavened, it is to 
be noted that the purification of truth from the false appertaining to man 
cannot possibly exist without leavening (fermentation), so called, that is, 
without the ccrmbat of the false with truth, and of truth with the false; but 
after that the combat hath taken place, and the truth hath conquered, then 
the false falls down like dregs, and the truth exists purified; like wine 
which grows clear after fermentation, the dregs falling down to the 
bottom. This fermentation or combat exists principally when the state 
appertsdning to man is turned, namely : when he begins to act from the 
good which is of charity, and not as before from the truth which is of faith; 
for the state is not yet purified when man acts from the truth of faith, but 
it is then purified when he acts from the good which is of charity, for then 
he acis from the will; before, only from the understanding. Spiritual com- 
bats or temptations are leavenings**or fermentations," in the spiritual sense, 
for on such occasions falses are desirous to conjoin themselves to truths, 
but truths reject them, and at length cast them down, as it were to the 
bottom, consequently refine. In this sense is to be understood what the 
Lord teaches concerning leaven, in Matthew : ** The kingdom of the heavens 



lOO THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE'* 

b like unto leaven which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal 
until the whole was leavened "(xiii. 33), where meal denotes the truth that 
gives birth to good. ♦ ♦ ♦ Because, as was said, such combats as are 
signified by leavenings or fermentations have place with man in the state 
previous to a new state of life ; therefore also, it was ordained that when 
the new meat offering on the feast of the first-fruits was brought, the wave 
offering should be baked leavened, and should be the first fruits to Jehovah. 
(Lev. xxiiL 16, 17).' 

" From this we see that though leaven represents what is false, 
yet we cannot come into genuine good without conflict with it, 
which involves its presence, nor without passing tlirough a state 
of spiritual fermentation answering to that of natural fermenta- 
tion. Not to have leaven in our houses is to banish the false 
from our minds in the only way it can be, by successful combat 
against it in the Lord's strength, which actually and effectually 
casts it out of our minds. We have no protection against the 
false, and all our tendencies favor its presence, imtil in conflict 
with it we obtain the victory. 

" As man is not pure without this spiritual fermentation, so the 
passage teaches us that the juice of the grape is not pure without 
natural fermentation ; and that by the process of natmral ferment- 
ation a liquid substance is produced that justiy represents truth 
in man purified from the false, which is, in substance, the good of 
charity. 

" It is especially to be noticed here, not only that the purifica- 
tion of the juice of the grape is effected by means of fermentation, 
but also that of meal or flour. For Swedenborg says, * meal 
denotes truth that gives birth to good.* As truth cannot be 
pure without spiritual combat against the false, which casts it 
out, so good cannot otherwise be rendered pure. And when 
the false is cast out by its subjugation in temptations, then both 
truth and good become pure. And so if we thmk of things 
instead of terms, we see that as leaven is the false, things become 
unleavened, that is, free from the false by the very process of 
what is called leavening. This subject is treated of in D. P. 284. 

"That there is a real relation of correspondence between 
the effects resulting from a successful meeting of spiritual temp- 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. ' lOl 

tation and the product of natural fermentation, is most fully 
confirmed by the statement which Swedenborg makes when he 
says 'spiritual combats or temptations are leavening s in the 
spiritual sense, ^ 

" When we consider what leaven represents — that is, the false 
and the false united with and flowing from evil — we can under- 
stand why it is so severely denounced in the Scriptures, and why 
he who eats it shall be cut off, that is, be destroyed or con-^ 
demned. It means that the appropriation of falsity and evil 
destroys man's spiritual life. 

"But when we understand that there are two results of a 
nature opposite to each other that may arise out of the presence 
of the false that causes spiritual fermentation, one of which 
results is the adoption and confirming of the false, and the 
other the effectual rejection and casting out of the false, then 
we can see that the former result is what is aimed at in the 
condemnation and not at all the latter, which, though it is the 
presence of the false that causes the fermentation, could never 
have been brought about without it. It is the doctrine of the 
Pharisees and the Sadducees — the false not seen as false and 
rejected, but confirmed — that makes deadly leaven. But, on the 
other hand, the false seen, guarded against, and altogether rejected, 
causes the leavening in its result to be the effectual establishing 
of the kingdom of heaven — causes it to be what is represented by 
the ' leaven which the woman took and hid in three measures of 
meal till the whole was leavened.' 

, "This expression is very suggestive ; for a woman signifies 
affection for the truth. It is an affection for the truth secretly 
fighting against the false, which alone can cause a successful result 
to the spiritual fermentation. 

. "Very instructive also is the concluding portion of the 
extract given ; * Because with man such combats, which are sig- 
nified by fermentations, exist in the state preceding a new one of 
life ; therefore, also, there is a statute' that the two wave loaves of 
fine flour should be baked with leaven, and should be the first 
fruits unto the Lord. 



I02 THE '/NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

"Waving the offering represents the acknowledgment of the 
Lord. Baking, as it is effected by fire, represents good flowing 
in from, the Lord when He is acknowledged. When fi*om an 
affection for the truth we have fought secretly against the false, 
until, in despair, we cease to trust in ourselves, and look to the 
Lord for help ; then there is an end of the conflict, and the good 
of love, which the baking represents, flows in from the Lord, 
^and the leaven of the false is effectually removed. Then there 
exists a new state of life, or a state of new life, which is the state 
for receiving the Holy Supper." 

The Lord says in Matthew, that "The kingdom of the 
heavens is like unto leaven, which a woman took and hid in three 
measures of meal, until the whole was leavened." "Meal in the 
above passage," says Swedenborg, "denotes the truth that gives 
birth to good." It is not difficult to understand this comparison 
in its literal sense, for it shows the gradual progress of the king- 
dom of heaven in man until he is wholly changed, as leaven 
progresses until the whole of the meal is leavened; nor is it 
difficult to understand how the sure and steady progress of the 
natiural leavening may even correspond to the sure and steady 
progress of the kingdom of heaven in man during his regenera- 
tion. But it is not so easy to imderstand how leaven, in any 
other manner, can correspond to the kingdom of heaven ; for it 
is the kingdom of heaven which is likened unto leaven, and not 
the false to which leaven corresponds. "The woman signifies 
the Church" (A. C. 252, 253), or the affection for truth in man. 
To take and hide would seem to mean to apply or to appropriate 
to one's self. Now for man, fi*om the love of truth which the 
Lord has implanted in him, to seek and appropriate the false 
until his three measures of meal, or all the truth which he pos- 
sesses, which should give birth to good, is falsified, would seem 
to be the correct interpretation of the latter part of the above 
verse, according to correspondences ; and if we can regard the 
kingdom of heaven as referring to the perverted state of the germs 
and remains implanted by the Lord in man, it may, perhaps, be 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 103 

the correct meaning ; for we know that in the Word, the apparent 
truth is not always the real truth, any more than it is in nature. 

Of one thing we feel confident ; and that is, that, after reading 
the numerous passages from Swedenborg, to be found in this 
work, and even in this chapter, the reader will be satisfied that 
the interpretation given by the above writer, in the New Jerusalem 
Magazine^ of the above parable, and of several of the passages in 
the paragraph from the "Arcana," is not correct ; for it does not 
accord with either the Word of the Lord or the writings of the 
Church. The explanation which the writer has suggested as to 
the possible true meaning of the parable of the kingdom of 
heaven and leaven, may be as far from the truth as the above 
writer's explanation, and he will not say that it is not ; for where 
he has not the clear light of Swedenborg's interpretation, he 
treads with hesitancy, and would do so carefully and not dogmati- 
cally, leaving every one to judge for himself. 

What are we to think of the ingenious theory of our brother — 
for ingenious it really is — speaking of the fermentation of wine 
and meal, that : "Things become unleavened, that is, free from 
the false, by the very process of what is called leavening," so that 
the wine and bread which have been through the process of 
leavening or fermentation are really unleavened wine and bread ? 
The Mrriter confesses that this is a new idea to him, and he does 
not believe that it was ever thought of before by Jew or Christian, 
and certainly not by Swedenborg; for, if the latter had ever 
thought of it, and had thought the idea true and useful, it is quite 
certain that, among all of his frequent references to unleavened 
and leavened bread and wine, he would have said something 
about it. But the. fact, so manifest in the Writings of Sweden- 
borg, that he never even thought of applying such an idea to the 
fermentation of material wine and meal, does not prove that it is 
untrue. If true, it is a very important prop, and will do much 
toward upholding wine and whisky drinking, and the consequent 
drunkenness, for all time to come. How the Rev. Dr. Crosby 
will rejoice when he gets hold of it ! But unfortunately, perhaps, 
the writer is too short-sighted to be able to see that this theory 



104 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

is correct. In fact, when applied to material wine and meal, he 
believes it to be entirely erroneous ; and his reasons will become 
more and more manifest to the reader all through this chapter ; 
but he will name some of them here. The essential product of 
fermentation or leavening is alcohol, whether it be wine, bread, 
or barley that is being fermented — that alone causes drunkenness. 
In the case of bread it is all driven off by baking with fire, in wine 
it is all carefully preserved. Will our brother tell us which of these 
substances is pure and unleavened ? It is perfectly clear that one 
or the other is not unleavened according to this new theory. 
Let him boil his wine until all the alcohol is driven off, and the 
writer will cease to controvert his theory ; for it will then be as 
harmless as baked, leavened bread. The bread has been, in a 
measure at least, purified by fire, but the fermented wine has not 
been, and the reader will please bear in mind that it was the bread 
thus purified which was offered in the wave offering. 
• The fundamental mistake of our brother, and of other writers 
who attempt to justify the use of intoxicating drinks firom the 
Writings of Swedenborg, lies in their assuming that the grape and 
its juice, and wheat and its meal, like man, have fallen from their 
original state of purity, and can only be restored by fermentation ; 
as man is purified by combats during regeneration. While we 
know that the grape, and wheat, may become uncultivated and 
wild from the neglect of man, and may become diseased, yet 
there is not one word to be found in the Sacred Scriptures, nor in 
the Writings of Swedenborg, nor a single fact in science to show 
that good, clean, healthy, cultivated grapes and wheat are not as 
free from impurity, and as capable of sustaining and supplying the 
wants of the human body, when used as food, as they ever were. 
How unreasonable, then, to attempt to base an argument in favor 
of intoxicating drinks upon such a groundless assumption. 

We shall see that Swedenborg gives to the grape and its juice, 
and to corn, or wheat, and its meal, a good signification, which 
he certainly would not have done, if they were so impure that 
they are not fit for human food and for sacramental purposes, 
until after fermentation. 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 105 

' Fermentation or leavening is but the first stage in the disor- 
ganization 01 decay of certain organized substances, and alcohol 
i? the chief product ; the next change produces vinegar in wine 
and a similar acid in bread. In fermenting dough it requires 
great cara to prevent the bread becoming sour ; and the same is 
true of wine, for by the time the wine is well fermented, a portion 
of the alcohol has passed or changed into vinegar ; therefore it 
is questionable if there is a single gallon of what our brothei 
would call, or regard as, well purified, fermented wine in the 
country, which does not contain vinegar ; and much of it a com- 
paratively large per cent. Now, has vinegar a good correspond- 
ence ? And is a wine containing it, pure and suitable for sacra- 
mental purposes ? We think not. 

Wine is not regarded as fermented or leavened wine until the 
process of fermentation has been completed. While fermenting 
it is neither called, nor regarded as, fermented wine, but is still 
new wine or must ; and that it was so regarded and spoken of by 
Swedenborg is manifest; in fact, where care is not used to 
prevent fermentation, new wine or must is rarely seen, except by 
the maker, in any other condition than undergoing the process 
of fermentation, consequently Swedenborg speaks of it as disa- 
greeing with the stomach ; but new wine or must, before ferment- 
ation has commenced, although containing more body, may be as 
clear as fermented wine, and in a given quantity is more accept- 
able to the unperverted taste, stomach, and head than fermented 
wine. 

In the above article from the New Jerusalem Magazine ^ it 
will be seen that the writer assumes and attempts to prove 
that the juice of the grape, must or new wine, meal and flour, 
are not pure until they have been through the process of fennent- 
ation ; and, consequently, before they have been fermented they 
are not suitable to be used in the Holy Supper, and, of course, 
not suitable as articles of food. He gives us to understand that 
not being pure their correspondence is not good. Right here, we 
will bring the testimony of Swedenborg as to the inherent quality 
of the liquid which is produced by his process of purification. 



Io6 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE** 

"Falses not from evil maybe compared to water not pure, 
which being drunk does not induce drunkenness, but falses from 
evil may be compared to such wines and strong drinks as induce 
drunkenness." (A. E. 1035.) 

Now, surely, if unfermented wine is not pure, as -our good 
brother represents, it never causes drunkenness, like his wine 
which has been purified by leavening ; but we can see, from the 
above comparison, that unfermented wine is to fermented wine 
what pure water is to impure water. And we will bring another 
comparison which will throw a little light, perhaps, upon one of 
the comparisons upon which our brother has based his arguments. 

" Inasmuch as evil is contagious, and infects as a fermenting 
body infects dough, thus at length infects all." (A. C. 6666.) 
Infect means to taint or coirupt. 

" Good uses," says Swedenborg, " are from the Lord and evil 
uses are from hell. Evil uses were not created by the Lord, but 
that they originated together with hell." (D. L. W. 336.) 
Among the evil uses he enumerates all kinds of poisons — in a 
word, "all things that do hurt and kill men." {Jbid 339.) Here, 
then, is a criterion by which we must judge of the suitability of any 
article for nourishing and supplying the wants of oiu" natural bodies. 
It should be evident to everyone that substances which have 
their origin from hell, which, when used as we use legiti- 
mate articles of food and drink, seriously endanger, hurt and kill 
men, should never be used for such purpose. Now, gentle reader, 
you who desire the best good of your fellow-men, we ask you 
seriously, if you do not see or witness all around you a radical 
difference between the action of water, milk, and the unferment- 
ed juice of the various fruits, and the action of fermented wine, 
beer, and other intoxicating drinks ? — ^all resulting from the de- 
struction or perversion of good and useful articles, by leaven, a 
substance unquestionably having its origin or life from hell. With 
what you have witnessed of the effects of such liquids, are you 
surprised to find that Swedenborg compares intoxicating wine 
and other strong drinks to falser from evil, and that he deliber- 
ately calls whisky " so pernicious a drink"? 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 107 

With the philosophy of Swedenborg as to good and evil uses 
for sustaining the body, so clearly against the use of intoxicating 
drinks, with his comparison of such drinks to falses from evil ; 
and with his solemn declaration that intoxicating drinks are so 
pernicious that their immoderate use threatened the downfall of 
the Swedish people in his day; is it not strange that any reader of 
his works should search carefully through them, to find here and 
there a passage which he thinks can be so construed as to justify 
their use; thus, perchance, justifying himself and encouraging 
others to pursue a course of life which has destroyed so many of 
their fellow- men, body and soul ? 

To render Swedenborg consistent with himself and with well- 
known facts, as we believe he always is, we shall find ourselves 
compelled to place a very different construction upon the 
quotations made by our brother from what he has done. We 
understand Swedenborg*s meaning is simply to liken the combat 
which takes place, of the false with truth and of truth with the 
false, in the purification of truth from the false in the regenera- 
tion of man, and the purity of truth after truth has conquered, 
to the fermentation and clearness of the wine after fermentation ; 
for he says that, after " truth has conquered, then the false falls 
down like dregs and truth exists purified, like wine which grows 
clear after fermentation, the dregs falling to the bottom." This 
would seem clearly to be the meaning, and, that he could have 
had no reference to the inherent quality of the resulting wine 
excepting its clearness, is manifest ; for leaven signifies the false, 
and the unfermented must or new wine signifies " truth derived 
from the good of charity;'* also, "the divine truth of the New 
Testament, consequently of the New Church." There is no 
evidence to be derived either fi*om the Word of the Lord, the 
Writings of Swedenborg, or from science, that it contains any 
impurity, or anything which does not correspond to truth and 
good, most harmoniously united in the fiiiit of the vine by the 
Lord for the nourishment of man. 

The blood of grapes, we are told by Swedenborg, denotes the 
good of love, " and in the supreme sense the Divine Good of the 



loa THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

Lord from His Divine Love." (A. C. 6378.) Does the above 
look as though the blood of the grape is impure, and that it re- 
quires leavening to purify it ? 

" ' And the floors shall be filled with pure com, and the wine- 
presses shall overflow with new wine and oiP (Joel ii. 24) . And 
again (iii. 18), 'It shall come to pass in that day the mountains 
shall drop new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the 
rivers of Judah shall flow with waters, and a fountain shall go 
forth from the house of Jehovah ;* speaking of the Lord's king- 
dom where, by new wine, by milk, and by waters are signified 
things spiritual whose abundance is thus described." (A. C, 
3580.) 

Do presses overflow with fermented wine, or mountains drop 
fermented wine? We know that it is unfermented wine to which 
reference is made in the above passages, and it is not difficult to 
understand that wine and new wine, when spoken of in a good 
sense in the Word, always mean imfermented wine. There are 
two or three expressions, in the quotation from Swedenborg, 
made by the writer in the Magazine, as a basis for his argument ; 
which, if he had heeded, we think would have shown him that 
the ideas in regard to purifying natural wine and meal, which he 
has advanced, are not justified by the quotation he has made. 

First : It is "the purification of truth from the false appertain- 
ing to man, (which) cannot possibly exist without leavening^ 
so-called" — or without combat. 

Second: "And the truth hath conquered;" but supposing, as 
in the case of fermented wine, the truth has not conquered in 
the combat ; what then ? 

Third ; "Spiritual combats or temptations are kavenings inthe 
spiritual sensed Now, if the writer in the Magazine had read 
the last sentence quoted above in the light of the first, it would 
seem that he could hardly have failed to see the truth upon this 
important subject. 

In the various passages which we have quoted from the Writ- 
ings of Swedenborg, in regard to the blood of the grape, and must 
or new wine, we have these various unferaiented products of 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. IO9 

the vine having a good correspondence, according to Sweden- 
borg ; but the reader will find this subject more fully considered 
in the chapter on "Two Kinds of Wine." 

Now leaven, signifying, as Swedenborg tells us, " evil and the 
false, which should not be mixed with things good and true,^' 
becomes mixed with the must or new wine, and a combat ensues ; 
but, alas ! for the argument of our brother, the leaven overcomes, 
conquers, and actually destroys the most of the sugar, gluten, and 
phosphorus, and casts down as dregs the vegetable salts, all so 
useful to nourish the material body, and " make glad the heart of 
man." The resulting leavened wine is full of a poisonous sub- 
stance or liquid, the effete product of leaven, which, as to its 
inherent quality, is so pernicious that Swedenborg compares 
even the wine which contains it to falses from evil, as we have 
shown elsewhere. It is not the abuse which is compared, but 
the wine itself. That there is no true correspondence between 
the two processes is perfectly clear, for in the spiritual ferment- 
ation or combat the truth overcomes, or should overcome, the 
false ; whereas, in the natural fermentation of wine, that which 
corresponds to the false overcomes that which corresponds to 
the truth and good, and actually destroys and casts it down ; 
leaving a fluid which derives its life from the activity or perver- 
sions wrought by the leaven, and which is never found in the 
grape, nor in wine, until man has preserved it in man-made 
vessels, and with care retained it at a certain temperature (and in 
the warm climate of Syria this required great care), and leaven 
has commenced its work of destruction. It is then, as we see, 
produced by the action of leaven, and leaven alone, on the true 
and good wine. Is it possible, we ask, for such a fluid to have a 
good correspondence ? We know that it has not, by its eflects 
on man, when he appropriates or drinks it. 

The above writer says : " It is especially to be noticed here, not 
only that the purification of the juice of the grape is eflected by 
means of fermentation, but also that of meal or flour. For 
Swedenborg says, * meal denotes truth that gives birth to good.* 
As truth connot be pure without spiritual combat against th6 



no THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

false, which casts it out, so good cannot otherwise be rendered 
pure." 

Now we understand this very differently. Truth and good as 
they appertain to man are not pure, but as they come from the 
Lord they are pure ; and the same is true of the grape and its 
juice, and wheat and its meal, before either man, leaven, or decay 
has perverted, them ; for they are the " good gifts of God to 
man.'* 

This view, we think, is abundantly confirmed by Swedenborg, 
for he says : " Flour or meal signifies celestial truth, and wheat 
celestial good." (A. R. 778.) Are these impure? Have we 
any natural substances of a higher signification ? Fine flour, and 
also meal, denote truth which is from good. (A. C. 9995.) 

Now, my reverend brother, do you really think the above 
substances can be purified by leavening them ? No, no ! For 
"what is leavened," says Swedenborg, " denotes what is falsified." 
(A. C. 805 1.) 

" The thing falsified, which is signified by what is leavened, 
and the false which is signified by leaven, differ in this, that the 
thing falsified ts truth applied to confirm einl, and the false is 
everything that is contrary to truth." . (A. C. 8062.) 

** By its being unleavened, or not fermented, is signified that it 
should be sincere, consequently from a sincere heart, and fi-ee 
fi*om things unclean. * * * Fine flour made into cakes 
in general represented the same thing as bread, viz., the celes- 
tial principle of love, and its farina the spiritual principle." 
(A. C. 2177.) 

Now, does it appear in the light of the above extracts from 
Swedenborg's teachings, that meal requires to be purified by 
leaven or fermentation, before it is fit for use ? The action of 
leaven upon meal or dough is similar to its action on wine ; it 
destroys and perverts, to the extent it progresses, the true, good, ' 
and useful organic compounds which exist in the meal or flour ; 
but as the dough is generally put into the oven and baked before 
this disorganizing process has proceeded so far as to waste any 
considerable quantity of it, and the leaven is destroyed, and the 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. HI 

chief product of fermentation — alcohol — is driven off by heat from 
fire, which signifies love or good from the Lord ; for this reason 
the bread becomes comparatively harmless, and never causes 
drunkenness like fermented wine ; and, therefore, there is not the 
same objection to its use either as an article of food, or in the 
most Holy Supper, that there is to the use of fermented ^vine ; 
but the writer would not recommend it for the latter purpose, yet 
he would many times rather use it than to use fermented wine. 

Speaking of "unleavened bread," Swedenborg says: "Un- 
leavened bread is good purified from the false." (A. C. 8058.) 

" By leaven is signified the false, and thus by unleavened or 
unleavened bread, good purified from falses." (A. C. 9287.) 

"That hereby is signified what is purified from all falses, 
appears from the signification of what is unleavened, as denoting 
what i» purified from the false ; the reason why unleavened has 
this signification is, because leaven signifies the false. (A. C. 7853.) 

" *And ye shall observe unleavened bread,' that hereby is signi- 
fied that there shall be no false, appears from the signification of 
unleavened bread, as denoting what is purified from all false." 
(A. C. 7897.) 

"The reason why what is unleavened signifies what is purified 
is because leaven signifies what is false derived from evil; hence ^ 
what is unleavened signifies what is pure, or without that false 
principle. The reason why leaven signifies what is false derived 
from evil is, \itz2M^Q^\% false principle defiles good and also truth, 
likewise because it excites combat, for on the approach of that 
false principle to good, heat is produced, and as it approaches to 
truth it excites collision." (A.C. 9992.) 

This is precisely what follows when leaven approaches new 
wine ; the wine becomes warm, thick, and muddy. A very useful 
lesson is taught us in the above paragraph, and that is that we 
should shun the false because it defiles good ; and for the same 
reason we should shun leavened or fermented wine, which we 
have seen corresponds to the false, for its use defiles both body 
and soul, as every day's observation shows us. 



212 THE ^*NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

The September number of the Magazine publishes an article 
on " Wine in the Word and the Doctrines," which contains some 
curious statements, to say the least. Among them the following : 
Speaking of the " extremists," in the temperance reform, the writer 
says : " Of which the writer wishes to say that he is an earnest, 
and for his brethren's sake, a totally abstaining advocate." And 
yet our brother labors with might and main to justify the use of 
fermented wine from the point of view of the Bible, and the writ- 
ings of the Church. 

But if fermented wine is a good and useful article to drink, why 
(Joes he abstain, and advise others for their own sakes to totally 
abstain from its use ? Is it not perfectly clear from the above 
admission, that our brother regards fermented wine, when used 
as a drink, as a seductive and dangerous fluid ? — ^and that it is not 
safe for any other man than himself to use it ; and as to himself 
the above language leaves it a little questionable whether he 
regards it safe for him to use it or not. The present writer will 
simply hint to him that it would be unquestionably more dan- 
gerous for him to use it than it would be for many other men ; 
for it seems quite clear that he would use it, if he were to use it 
at ail, if we can judge by his language, in violation of the clear 
dictates of his understanding, and the promptings of his con- 
science. It is never well to act thus. 

We think that if the writer had examined the subject a little 
more carefully in the light of the Word of the Lord and the 
writings of the Church, he would have hesitated before making 
the following positive statement, or of including must or imfer- 
mented wine with tirosh : 

"It will be seen, then, that the attempt to make the Word 
commend tirosh, and to infer that sweet wine has always a good 
signification, is not only unreasonable when we think of the 
pervertible nature of man, but utterly breaks down when we 
examine the passages themselves." 

, And the following are the scriptural illustrations by which he 
attempts to justify the above conclusions. "Whoredom and 
tirosh [mustum'] take away the heart (Hos. iv. ii). "They 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 1 13 

assemble themselves for com and tirosh \musfunt]y and they 
rebel against me" (Hos. vii. 14). 

If firosh has a bad signification in both of the above passages, 
so has com ; if one is condemned, so is the other ; but it seems 
perfectly clear in the light of a careful study of the Writings of 
Swedenborg, that neither of these substances in the passsages 
referred to, especially in the last one, has a bad signification. In 
Swedenborg's "Angelic Wisdom," concerning the divine love 
and wisdom, speaking of the uses for sustaining the body, he says 
that there are good and evil uses ; and that the good uses, or, in 
other words, substances, are created by the Lord, and are useftil 
to build up and sustain the body, and " make glad the heart of 
man." "Com shall make the young men cheerful, and tirosh 
[^mustum'] the maids" (Zech. ix. 17). Good uses, Swedenborg 
informs us, can be abused, but abuse does not take away 
use, except in those who abuse them. Now, when men give 
themselves up to a gluttonous use of com and wine, and drink sweet 
unfermented wine (as we are told by ancient writers that some 
of the ancients did, until their stomachs could hold no more, 
and then vomit it that they might enjoy the pleasure of drinking 
again ) , although it never causes dmnkenness, it becomes an abuse 
of a good use, but it does not change the substance into an evil 
substance or use. Cannot our brother see this? Substances 
which nourish and build up the body, giving substance, strength, 
and health, and which do not cause disease, are always good 
uses, and never bad uses ; but we have shown above, from the 
testimony of Swedenborg, that, although they may be abused, yet 
their life is fi*om heaven and abuse cannot change it. 

Of a totally different character are evil uses, Swedenborg 
informs us. Among such uses he classes all substances which, 
when used as food or drink, do hurt and kill men. He assures 
us that they have their origin from hell. As we have stated else- 
where, of no other substance on earth have we such long-continued, 
uniform testimony, sustained by our own observation, that it hurts 
and kills men as we have that fermented wine does this ; 
and it not only hurts and kills the body, but it also debases and 



114 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE** 

depraves the mind, and causes the most fearful delirium and 
insanity. 

The reader should bear in mind that must is used to designate, 
not only the unfermented juice of the grape, but also the juice 
during the process of fermentation ; and that during the latter 
state it is polluted by ferment, consequentiy during that state it 
has an evil signification, so that must may have a good or a bad 
signification according to its state. But the reader will find 
this whole subject treated more fully in the fourth chapter. 

Again, says the writer in the Magazine : " We have seen that 
the Word has yayin, tirosh, and sheckar; that it uses all three in 
both a good and bad sense, and that there is no room for 
argument that tirosh is alone commended." Now we have read 
many volumes on the subject under consideration, and we 
remember no writer who argues that tirosh is alone com- 
mended in the Word. It is universally admitted, we believe, by 
the advocates of total abstinence, that yayin, like the Latin vinum 
and the English wine, is a generic name like our word cider, and 
includes new and old wine, unfermented, fermented, boiled, and 
that which is preserved by filtering, settling, and by adding 
sulphur and other materials. W^e do know of one writer who 
claims that tirosh is only used for the fiiiit of the vine and sweet 
or unfermented wine, in which opinion he is perhaps mistaken, 
as we have shown above. Again, says the above writer : " We 
notice at once that mustum for tirosh is used (by Swedenborg) 
carefiilly, and with consistent reference to its use in the Word." 

"It means the 'truth of the natural man' (A. E. 509); 
'truth fi-om good in the natural' (A. E. 511 7) ; 'com signifies 
good, tirosh [niustufn\ natural truth — of the rational, bread 
and wine \innum'\ are predicated '" (A. C. 3580). Again, the 
above writer says : "We have seen that mustum is understood 
to denote good in the natural, or good which is exterior. * ♦ * 
The result of some study is the conclusion that he used vinum 
for fermented wine, as opposed to mustum for unfermented." 
The writer gives no distinct intimation that mustum or imfer- 
mented wine has ever any higher signification than what is 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. US 

natural and exterior, and thus he leaves the reader to infer that 
such is his opinion. 

Now, we ask the intelligent reader of Swedenborg if the above 
is a fair representation of Swedenborg's teachings ; and if the con- 
clusions arrived at are those which an unbiased mind would be 
likely to reach after a fair examination of this whole subject ? 
Let us look, and we shall readily find a few passages which will 
certainly give a very different view from what he presents ; and, 
on a more careful examination, we shall find that there are 
many passages which go to show that unfermented mustum 
or sweet unfermented wine, has a much higher signification 
than that represented above. Surely no one will pretend that 
the blood of the grape is fermented wine, yet we read that : 
"The blood of the grape signifies spiritual celestial good, which 
is the name given to the divine in heaven proceeding from the 
Lord." (A. C. 5 1 17.) Does this need refining by man's mge- 
nuity ? 

"Must," says Swedenborg, ^^ signifies the same as wine^vxi,, 
truth derived fi*om the good of charity and love." (A. E. 695.) 
It will be seen that the above is a general declaration, and not a 
specific application, as in the instances quoted by the above 
writer. Again, we are told that, " By the produce of the wine- 
press was signified all the truth of the good of the Church, the 
same as by wine." (A. E. 799.) 

The produce of the wine-press is neither more nor less than 
unfermented wine. 

Not a single drop of fermented wine was ever produced by a 
wine-press from sound, healthy grapes. Fermented wine is pro- 
duced by the violent action of ferment, and by ferment alone, on 
the juice of the grape, decomposing and destroying the organized 
substances created -by the Lord in the grape, most admirably 
adapted for the sustenance of man. 

On a careful examination, it will be difficult to avoid the 
conclusion that new wine must mean either the unfermented 
juice of the grape, or the juice during fermentation. Now, 
when it is spoken of favorably and commended in the 



Il6 THE **NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE'* 

Word, it is evident that it must mean unfermented juice of the 
grape ; for surely no one can for a moment suppose that wine or 
must during fermentation, full of ferment and the heterogeneous 
substances which it has developed, can have a good signification. 
Even the above writer cannot claim this. 

"New wine '* (Luke xv. 29), says Swedenborg,"is the divine 
truth of the New Testament, consequently of the New Chiu*ch, 
and old wine is the divine truth of the Old Testament, conse- 
quently of the Old Church." Now, will our brother tell us which 
has the highest signification — new or old wine ? We have abun- 
dantly shown elsewhere that the best old wines of the ancients in 
Bible days were not generally fermented wines, but that they 
were unfermented wines. 

There reniains but one subject more in the article in the New 
Jerusalem Magazine which requires notice, and that is Sweden- 
borg's comparisons ; and, although we have akeady considered 
them in writing other parts of this work, still as the arguments 
of the New Church advocates for the use of intoxicating drinks 
are generally chiefly based upon these comparisons, we will 
present to the reader the comparisons selected by the above 
writer, with his comments in full, adding a few notes of our own in 
brackets, so that the reiader may have the latest presentation by 
our opponents of the comparisons firom Swedenborg before him. 
The writer says : 

"He (Swedenborg) says of spiritual fermentation, that 'purifi- 
cation is effected in two ways, by spiritual temptations and 
fermentations ; the former are combats against evils and falsities,' 
the latter are 'evils and falsities which, being let in, act like 
ferments put into meal and unfermented wines — mustis [that is, 
they excite combat], by which heterogeneous things are separated 
and homogeneous conjoined and made pure and clear* [mani- 
festly in the spirit of man and not in the wine]. (D. P. 25.) 

"This is unmistakable. The leaven [spiritual leaven] is evil in 
its character. The result, if the process is carried out, is good, 
namely, [spiritual] purification. 



f AND THE WINE QUESTION. 1 1? 

*' Again, he likens the reforming process to the fermentation of 
vinum or sicera, and he adds : 

" * If the good overcomes, the evil with its falsities is removed 
to the sides as the lees fall to the bottom of the vessel, and the 
good becomes like generous vinum after fermentation and clear 
sicera. [Becomes clear, like generous or strong wine after 
fermentation]. But if the evil overcomes, then the good with 
its truth is removed to the sides, and becomes turbid and foul 
like unfermented vinum and unfermented sicera,^ (D. P. 284.) 
[Wine is called unfermented wine until fermentation is completed, 
or at least far advanced ; and as fermentation generally commences 
within twenty-four hours from the time the wine flows from the 
press, if no measures are taken to prevent it, it is evident that 
Swedenborg had in mind wine in this state ; for wine in which 
fermentation has not commenced is neither turbid nor foul, and, 
as we well know, is often kept for years without becoming either.] 

" These are plain words, a comparison being made which would 
not be made if clear sicera was a decayed product, nor if unfer- 
mented vinum was perfect wine. 
" So again we read : 

*"The purification of truth from falsity in man cannot take 
place without fermentation, so-called ; that is, without combat, 
But after that the combat has taken place and the truth has con- 
quered, then the falsity falls like lees, and the truth exists puri- 
fied ; like vinum, which, after fermentation, grows clear, the 
lees falling to the bottom.' (A. C. 7906.) [By spiritual fer- 
mentation, so-called, we are told above he means spiritual 
combat — ^falsity falls like lees, and the truth grows clear hke 
wine after fermentation — that is all.] 

" That this was Swedenborg's full understanding of the process 
of fermentation also appears from his use of the illustration in a 
letter to Dr. Beyer, dated Stockholm, December 29th, 1 769, in 
which, speaking of opposition, he said : ' Such a noise does no 
harm, for it is like that of fermentation in the preparation of wine, 
by which it is cleared of impurities ; for unless what is wrong is 
ventilated and thus expelled, what is right cannot be seen and 



H8 THE **NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

adopted.' [Fermentation simply clears the wine of the impurities 
developed by the ferment.] 

" There is no word adverse to this, so far as is known." 

With all due respect to the above writer, we unhesitatingly 
afiirm that Swedenborg's writings are full of words adverse to the 
construction which he has placed upon the adove comparisons 
which he has selected from Swedenborg's works. To admit 
what the above writer assumes, would be to admit that Sweden- 
borg contradicts himself and scientific facts with which he was 
unquestionably familiar, which is not true. 

The above writer, and others who attempt to justify the use of 
fermented wine, assume that unfermented wine, as it is squeezed 
from grapes, or flows from the press, is not a perfect wine, but 
that, like man, it has fallen ; one writer assumes that it contains 
earth-bom impurities, and that as man is purified itova his evils 
by the aid of evil spirits, flowing in and exciting them, and by 
man's combat against them, so wine can only be purified from its 
impurities by the use of leaven or ferment, which we are told by 
Swedenborg signifies " evil and the false which should not be 
mixed with things good and true." 

Now, we know not of a single passage in the Word, or in the 
writings of the Church, or a single scientific fact which will sustain 
the assumption that the wine as it flows from the press contains 
any impurities, or that it is not a perfect wine. We have seen 
above, that the blood of the grape, must or new wine, before 
the process of fermentation, has the very highest signification ; 
and that must and even all the produce of the wine-press have 
the same signification as wine. Where then are your impurities ? 
Where then are your imperfections in this good product of the 
vineyard, one of the most homogeneous substances in the world, 
organized by the Great Chemist, for nourishing and sustaining 
the human body, and containing in a liquid form, most wonderfully 
blended, the very materials required by the body. It seems 
almost a profanation to talk of its having impurities and imper- 
fections. 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. I19 

Until ferment commences its destructive work, wine has no 
impurities ; but, after that, it speedily becomes turbid, foul, and 
full of heterogeneous substances ; and it cannot become a clear 
liquid until the fermentation ceases, and the resulting heterogen- 
eous substances are separated from the liquid by falling to the 
bottom, or otherwise. It is the fermentation compared to spirit- 
ual combats and the clarification of the wine, producing a clear 
liquid, which Swedenborg manifestly intends to compare in the 
above passages, and not the inherent quality of the resulting fluid. 
Swedenborg knew very well that fermented wine would cause 
intoxication, and in No. 1035, A. E., he compares such wine 
to falses from evil. Does that look as though he thought fermented 
wine was a good and perfect wine, or that it had a good corres- 
pondence ? He knew as well as we know that the important or 
chief active ingredient in fermented wine is alcohol, and that the 
alcohol in wine is in every resj>ect similar to the alcohol in whisky, 
which he declared, long after his illumination, was "so pernicious 
a drink." 

Fermented wine is not a perfect or homogeneous wine ; for if 
the process of fermentation has been arrested, by bottling and 
corking, keeping it cool, or by the addition of alcohol or any 
other substance, which will either prevent or check the fer- 
mentation, you necessarily have unfermented wine, which the 
above writer represents as an imperfect wine, mixed with 
the fermented wine, whereas, if the process is allowed to 
go on until it is fully completed, before that time arrives the 
acetous fermentation commences, and you have vinegar mixed 
with your wine, so that in either case it is an impure and polluted 
wine. There is no avoiding this conclusion. 

The following is the conclusion of the Magazine article : 
"When our Lord instituted the Holy Supper, he used the 
expression * fruit of the vine,' and this has been declared to mean 
an unfermented drink ; but, looking merely at the words, it would 
be difficult to see that they carry on their face any such meaning. 
Swedenborg, in speaking of this act (T. C. R. 708) uses always 



I20 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

the term vinum. The Lord gave them vinum, saying, ^ This is 
my blood/ and vinum signifies Divine Truth." (T. C. R. 706.) 

Of course, vinum signifies divine truth when it is applied to 
unfermented wine, but never when it is applied to wine after the 
process of fermentation has commenced. Vinum is a generic 
word covering all kinds of wine. 

Says the Rev. Dr. Samson : " Not a shadow of doubt, then, 
rests on the fact, that, in the wisdom of Him who wished His 
will to be known as to the intoxicant, which, from Noah's fall to 
our day, has been, as Luther styled it, the sauf-teufel^ or drink- 
devil (the tempter of Noah being, to the reformer's mind, the 
tempter most successful since the flood) , not a shadow of doubt 
rests as to the fact that the word known to all nations was selected 
by divine inspiration, as the one in reference to which the least 
possible mistake could be made in the records which teach God's 
laws as to the beverages whose nature must be learned by the ■ 
effects they are stated to produce. Yayin is like oinos, and vinum 
and vin and wein and wine as universally generic as it is univer- 
■ sally cognate ; and the Divine mind, that has made its meaning 
in all human literature to be manifest to the reader, meant that it 
should be, as it certainly has been, manifest also to men respon- 
sible as translators." 

Chemistry, as the writer has already stated, shows that in no 
true sense is fermented wine the fruit of the vine, for almost all of 
the organic constituents of the fruit as contained in grapes, and 
the wine as it flows from the press, have been either partially or 
wholly destroyed, changed or precipitated by fermentation ; an 1 
alcohol, which will cause drunkenness, disease and insani;:y 
(developed by the destruction of a heaven-born substance, sugar) 
becomes the chief ingredient in the wine. 

How contrary it is to the facts in the case, to either assert, or 
pretend, that fermented wine is the fruit of the vine, or that it was 
the kind of wine used by our Lord when he instituted the Holy 
Supper. Unfermented wine is truly the fruit of the vine, and is 
nothing else. Of this tliere can be no question. Let us either 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 121 

tise it, or let wine alone. We must let fermented wine alone 
if we would live in safety; for all experience shows that no 
man can use it with assurance that he will not become a drunkard ; 
and the man who has the most confidence in his own prowess 
will, as a rule, be quite sure to be the first to fall. Brethren, let 
us beware ! We cannot violate the laws of God, as manifested in 
our physical and mental organizations, with impunity. 

A writer in the New Jerusalem Magazine for May, 1880, says : 

"There is no poison in the wine which 'makes glad the 
heart of man,' none in that which the good Samaritan poured 
into the wounds of the man who fell among thieves ; none in 
that which cheers but does not inebriate in declining age." 

Every word of which is true : but oh ! when the above writer 
assumes, as he does, that the kind of good wine to which he 
alludes is fermented wine, how far from the truth he is can be 
seen at a glance. We know that there is poison in fermented 
wine, and that it every day makes the hearts of men mad, and 
their wives and children fearfully sad, and never glad. "Who 
would think for a single moment of pouring such an irritating 
fluid as fermented wine into fresh wounds ? Such a wine will 
inebriate the old man more readily than the middle-aged ; and 
how can any New Church ^vriter, when Swedenborg compares it 
to falses from evil (A. E. 1035), represent it as the "most holy 
earthly emblem of the truth which is divine"? 

Have we, as rational and accountable beings, (simply to gratify 
our perverted appetites) a right to enter upon an unnecessary 
course of life, and to teach others by precept and exainple to do 
the same, which the experience of thousands of years has shown 
is attended with such fearful danger to our present and eternal 
welfare, as is the drinking of fermented wine? Have we a right 
to thus endanger the happiness and welfare of those whom we 
should love by such a course ? Will our friends of the New 
Jerusahm Magazine answer the above questions ? Will they tell 
us where the " enormous sin " of drunkenness lies, if it does not 
lie with the "beginners"? The drunkard is insane, and, conse- 
quendy, comparatively irresponsible. 
6 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE ACADEMY OF THE NEW CHURCH, AS REPRESENTED BY ITS 
SERIAL, "WORDS FOR THE NEW CHURCH," AND THE WINE AND 
"whisky" QUESTION. 

Words for the New Church is a serial controlled by the 
"Academy of the New Church," we are told on its title-page. 
There is no editor's name given on the cover, and no signature 
attached to either of the reviews which are noticed in the follow- 
ing pages ; and, as now nearly or quite a year has passed, without 
any exception having been taken by either the Academy as a 
whole, or any member thereof, either publicly or privately,, within 
the knowledge of the writer, to the ideas and style of the reviews 
under consideration, the writer thinks that he has a right to infer 
that the views therein contained are the views of the Academy, as 
a whole, if not of all of its members. He will therefore speak of 
them as such in the following pages. 

In regard to the first of these reviews, the editor of the New 
Church Independent says : 

"In Words for the New Churchy No. VII., we find a review 
of Dr. Ellis's little pamphlet on 'Lay-lecturing and Re-baptisn»>' 
very much of which is so insolent, so dogmatic, and so untrue, 
that we should not care to reproduce it." 

The writer has long known and respected several of the promi- 
nent men of the Academy, and he is free to confess that he was 
somewhat surprised at the language used, and the spirit ap- 
parently manifested in the two reviews contained in Words for 
the New Church, 

Speaking of his letter to the Rev. George Field on the subject 
f "lay-lecturing and re-baptism," the Academy says : 

"This waif has strayed into our domain : and as it is clad in garments that 
might give it an entrance to homes whose doors would \>t closed against 
(122) 



THE WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. I2J 

it, were its intrinsic quality known, we feel constrained to examine the 
warp and woof of its garments, and, if possible, to show what it is in itself. 

"This brochure is divided into two parts; eight pages of which are 
devoted to the subject of lay-lecturing and sixteen to re-baptism. 

" In these two articles, and in another tract by the same author on the 
subject of wine-drinking, he assumes to be a New Churchman; and he 
avails himself of i\iQ freedom which is supposed to be the rightful boon of 
all New Churchmen, to oppose or ignore the teachings of the Writings of 
Swedenborg, whenever they appear to stand in the way of his arguments. 

** He seems to have fallen into the same error with many other would-be 
expounders of New Church doctrines, of feeling himself competent to evolve 
from his own conciousness, more or less enlightened by cognitions — ^legiti- 
mate doctrines, worthy of all acceptation." 

Now, gentlemen of the Academy, we have a few words to say 
to you, containing a little useful information and a few suggestions 
and hints — nothing more. And if we speak in rather plain 
language, in what we have to say in reply to your reviews, it will 
not be because we delight in using such language, but because it 
sometimes becomes a duty, in defence of a good cause, to talk 
plainly even to those who have been appointed to teach others 
the way to heaven. 

Such egotistical and dogmatical insinuations and misrepresenta- 
tions, apparently so full of the spirit of self-derived intelligence, as 
are contained in the above extracts from your serial, and in others 
wliich we shall select, might have answered their apparent pur- 
pose before the year 1 75 7, in an old, weii-estabiished ecclesiastical 
organization ; but, in this new age, they will frighten no one ; 
they may amuse some, but they will attract a less number ; and 
even laymen, you will find, will not " down at your beck." If 
you cannot sustain your views by fair and legitimate arguments, 
couched in courteous and gentlemanly language, you may as well 
give them up. " He assumes to be a New Churchman ! " Strange 
language this, to be applied to a brother in the Church, whose 
standing has never been questioned, and who has been well known 
by his writings and efforts to spread a knowledge of the doctrines 
of the New Church for more than a quarter of a century; 
and to one who, perhaps, has done as much within the last 
five years toward spreading a knowledge of the heavenly doc- 



124 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

trines among his countrymen as any other man. He has written 
an "Address to the Clergy," of twenty-four pages in length, and 
with a moderate amount of assistance tendered by others, fifty- 
five thousand copies have been printed and circulated; fifty 
thousand of them having been sent to clergymen. The second 
page of the cover of this tract contained a circular of the gift 
books, and the last two pages of the cover and one of the body of 
the tract contained advertisements of many of the Printing and 
Publishing Society's works, and of the Convention's books. He 
has also ^vritten about one-half, and compiled from distinguished 
New Church writers the other half, of a work of two hundred and 
sixty pages; of which twenty-six thousand copies have been 
ppnted ; twenty thousand of which have been sent gratuitously to 
clerg)nnen, and six thousand have been printed for missionary 
use. Upon the cover of this work were also printed the circular 
of the gift books, and advertisement, of the other publications 
ilamed above. As a result of the circulation of the above works, 
some thousands of clergjnuen have sent for and obtained the gift 
books, who othen^dse would not at this time have been likely to 
have them ; and many thousands of these teachers of the people 
have some knowledge of the Writings of Swedenborg ; and it is 
known that many of these are reading with interest, and that 
some are acknowledged receivers of the new doctrines. So 
quietly has all this work been done, that we doubt very much 
whether the circulation of such a vast number of pages of New 
Church reading matter among the clergy, or even the works them- 
selves, have ever been noticed in the Academy's organ. Words 
for the New Church : at- all events, if such a notice has appeared 
in that serial, the writer has not seen it. 

Two other tracts, however, were written ; one a letter to the 
Rev. George Field, and another on the wine question, which 
were regarded as worthy of notice by the Academy; and we 
rather incline to think that another and larger work is being 
written, which will be deemed worthy of notice by that organiza- 
tion ; and that very soon after it is published, another number 
of Words for the New Church will make its appearance. 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 125 

Well, gentlemen of the Academy, we give you due notice that 
while the present writer lives, and the Lord gives him the ability 
to write and print, you cannot have it all your own way while you 
publicly, in print, advocate the use of intoxicating drinks ; and 
that while Words for the New Church may reach one reader, the 
reply containing or including the gist of your arguments, will be 
likely to reach more than one ; and we will simply hint to you 
that if your words are courteous and respectful, you will have no 
just cause to complain of the writer's reply. 

Now, gentle reader, the last page or two would never have 
been written by the writer, if it had not been for the ungenerous 
efforts of the Academy to impair the usefulness of his writings, 
for he would strive to avoid notoriety rather than court it in his 
efforts to spread a knowledge of the doctrines of the New Church. 

Who it is that "opposes or ignores the teachings of the Writings 
of Swedenborg, whenever they appear to stand in the way of his 
arguments," the reader who has carefully read our previous tract 
on ^'Pure Wine, Fermented Wine, and other Alcoholic Drinks," 
and who will read what follows in this work will be able to judge. 

To our suggestion in our letter on " Lay-preaching and Re- 
baptism," that it would be well if laymen, well read in the doc- 
trines, were encouraged to serve as missionaries in any unoc- 
cupied field, and to fill pulpits temporarily vacant, in order to 
accelerate the progress of the New Church, the Academy's serial 
says : 

"This, then, is the remedy offered by the writer of this letter. 
But it may not be a relief to those anxious ones to know that the 
Lord needs none of their help ? This is expressly stated in the 
Writings of Swedenborg : 

*A11 men are evil, and of himself every one would rush into hell; where- 
fore it is a mercy that he is delivered thence ; nor is it anything but mercy, 
inasmuch as He has need of no man.' " (A. C. 587.) 

If the above representation of the Academy is correct, what 
use is there for the Academy, and the small handful of anxious 
moving spirits thereof, who apparently seem to be willing to 
assume the name of, and to be regarded as, ihd only priests of 



1 26 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

the New Jerusalem Church ? If the Lord needs no man's help, 
why do its members not disband, and thus make way for the 
descent of the New Jerusalem? 

But the Academy, in the above lines, presents only a one-sided 
view, and consequently a mistaken application of the passage. 
The Lord needed a man through whom to reveal to men the 
truths of the New Church, and He found that Emanuel Sweden- 
borg was both fit and willing to cooperate with Him in this 
great work. The Lord desires the salvation of all men; but, 
having given to man freedom and reason, He desires that 
man should cooperate with Him by striving to keep the com- 
mandments, and that he should do this as of himself; at 
the same time recognizmg and acknowledging that his very 
life, and all the inclination and power he has to do, comes to 
him from the Lord alone. If man does not strive thus to act, 
he cannot be saved. We have every reason to suppose that the 
Lord desires the promulgation of the doctrines of the New 
Church to men, and that as we have freely received them from 
Him, we should freely give them to others. There is, then, a 
sense in which He not only needs, but commands our cooperation 
with Him for our own good, and the good of our fellow-men. It 
is very evident that the above quotation from the "Arcana" will 
bear no such construction as the Academy has given to it. 

We must say that we are always pained to hear New Church 
clergymen proclaim such sentiments as the above ; for, so far as 
we can judge, they seem to manifest a state of mind too near akin 
to that which resulted in the promulgation of the doctrine of 
justification by faith alone, and the claim for spiritual dominion, 
which were so instrumental in consummating the first Christian 
Church, and which have led to the fatalistic doctrine which has 
devastated even the Mohammedan religion in our day — "God is 
great, and Mohammed is His prophet," and what need of our 
trying to do anything. Such views clearly belong to a consum- 
mated Church, and have no place in the New Jerusalem Church, 
"the Crown of all the Churches, and which is to endure forever." 
^ But, so far as lay-lecturing and re-baptism are concerned, 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. I27 

what we have said in our tract has been simply in the interest of 
freedom in the New Church. Our views are before the Church, 
and we have no desire for a controversy upon these subjects ; 
but to show in what a different spirit another reviewer has noticed 
the above "waif," and to what a different conclusion he has 
come, we will quote an editorial notice from the Morning Light, 
the English New Church weekly journal, of May 2 2d, 1880 : 

" We have received a copy of * A Letter to the Rev. George Field on the 
subect of Lay-lecturing and Re-baptism/ by John Ellis, M. D., in reply to 
some remarks in Dr. Field's * Early history of the New Church in the 
Western States and Canada.' The questions are temj^erately and ably 
argued, and we think that Dr. Ellis abundantly proves the impropriety of 
discouraging lay-preaching and the requirement of re-baptism as a condition 
of membership." 

The writer has, as has been stated, no desire to enter into a con- 
troversy with the Academy on the subjects of lay-lecturing and 
re-baptism, especially of the character initiated by the Academy ; 
but the erroneous and pernicious views set forth in their serial upon 
the wine question, must be met and fully exposed ; and, to use 
their own delicate language, it must be clearly shown how they are 
"groping in hopeless darkness" upon this great practical question, 
which so intimately affects the welfare of the Church and the 
world. 

Before the end of this work is reached, the reader will be able 
to judge whose writings should be excluded from the homes 
where dwell those who themselves desire to live the life of the 
Church, and to train the young under their charge into an orderly 
and Christian life. It is certain that either the writings of the 
Academy, as contained in their serial, Words for the New 
Churchy or the writings of the author of " Pure Wine, Fermented 
Wine, and Other Alcoholic Drinks," should be carefully excluded 
from the home of every parent who has at heart, the best good 
of his children, and others dependent upon him, for we read, 
*• evil communications corrupt good manners." The teachings of 
the one or the other are fearfully evil and pernicious. 

Now, gentle reader, if you desire your children to drink intoxi- 
cating wine and distilled liquors, you have only to admit to your 



128 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

homes the Academy's serial, Words for the New Church — 
what fearful words — and the following is a sample of the chosen 
words of instruction they will find therein : 

" In view of the fact that many wine-merchants and distillers, participat- 
ing in the greedy desire for gain, adulterate their productions, it becomes 
necessary to be careful in selecting liquors for consumption, as well as for 
experimentation. 

"Much of the whisky which is sold as pure, contains amylic alcohol, 
the fusel oil, which is acrid, offensive, and highly injurious to the system. 

"Of the various articles now in the market, we may make a judicious 
selection, depending not only upon our taste, but also upon the respective 
liquors." 

Such is the instruction given in Words for the New Church ; 
and, in accordance therewith, if such authors are permitted to 
enter your homes, have we not every reason to suppose will 
be the example set before your children by those whom they 
will probably respect. How do you like it, kind parent ? Aris- 
totle's (the sage of antiquity) rule was, "When the danger is 
all on one side, abstinence doing no injury, while indulgence 
may injure, it is virtue to keep to the extreme on the safe side ;" 
in other words, to totally abstain. No one can question but that 
the drinking of intoxicating drinks is dangerous, and that total ab- 
stinence is safe, during health ; and that it is a duty, has been, and 
will be again clearly shown, from the authority of the Word of God, 
the writings of the Church, and the teachings of modem science. 
We will suggest to our friends of the Academy, that if they will 
even consult the writings of that ancient philosopher, Aristotle, 
they will perhaps get a glimpse of other virtues well worthy of 
their consideration, of which, as in the case before us, they appar- 
ently, at present, have not the slightest perception. 

Speaking of the total abstinence movement, the Academy says : 
"Strange, indeed, is it that New Churchmen should be 
beguiled into such movements ; but that they are is evident from 
the occasional display of temperance badges, and still more 
from the character of contributions made to our various periodi- 
cals. Beyond these, books and pamphlets occasionally appear 
from professed New Churchmen filled with the most egregious 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 1 29 

falsities on the subject of alcoholic stimulants, their use and their 
abuse. Among these is a pamphlet, by John Ellis, M. D., entitled, 
*Pure Wine, Fermented Wine, and other Alcoholic Drinks in 
the Light of the New Dispensation/ Written under such an 
illumination, the reader would expect a clear and complete expo- 
sition of the whole subject of intemperance, both as to its 
prevention and removal. But instead, he is introduced to parti- 
san selections from physiological experiments, and, what is more 
lamentable, to such perverted interpretations of Swedenborg*s 
teachings that he fmds himself groping in hopeless darkness." 

The following is the first illustration of the writer's so-called 
"perverted interpretation of Swedenborg's teachings," which 
we will quote, and then quote the passages from the documents ; 
and then the reader will be able to judge who has been guilty of 
perverting Swedenborg's teachings : 

"Beginning with the title-page," says the Academy's serial, 
"he (Dr. Ellis) reads a selection from the Documents, which is so 
quoted that it holds Swedenborg responsible for what he never 
taught, and it even makes him dispute the plain dicta of the 
writings of the Church. The passage referred to, when read as 
it is in the Documents, shows that Swedenborg had reference to 
a people who were dissolute in the extreme. They were con- 
suming the distillation of a grain which was sadly needed as an 
article of food. Foreseeing the ruin of his own people, he urged 
that the authorities forbid, or at least limit, the sale of what was 
indeed, under the circumstances, 'a pernicious drink.*" 

The following is what was printed on the tide-page of our tract, 
to which reference is made above. 

"Total abstinence from an intoxicating drink, more desirable for the 
country's welfare and morality than all the revenue to be derived from 
licensing the manufacture and sale of *so pernicious A drink.' " — Emanuel 
Swedenborg. (See page 34.) 

And the following is what was printed on page 34 of our tract, 
and the reader can judge whether the above lines misrepresent 
Swedenborg's teachings or not, and we do not fear the judgment. 
It was not intended as a verbatim quotation, and therefore, with the 



I JO THE ACADEMY AND THE 

exception of the last four words, it was not put in quotation 
marks, but the reader was referred to the page where the ver- 
batim quotations were to be found. 

TESTIMONY OF EMANUEL SWEDENBORG. 

On the fly-leaf of one of his theological MSS., he wrote : "The 
immoderate use of spirituous liquors will be the downfall of the 
Swedish people." In his memorial to the Swedish Diet, of 
November 17th, 1760, three years after the Last Judgment, 
Swedenborg says: "If the distilling of whisky — ^provided the 
public can be prevailed upon to accede to the measure — ^were 
fiarmed out in all judicial districts, and also in towns, to the 
highest bidder, a considerable revenue might be obtained for the 
country, and the consumption of grain might also be reduced ; 
that is, if the consumption of whisky cannot be done away with 
altogether, which would be more desirable for the country's 
welfare and morality than all the income which could be realized 
from so pernicious a drink. " ( * * Documents concerning Sweden- 
borg," by Rev. R. L. Tafel, vol. i. p. 493.) This has clearly and 
unmistakably the total abstinence and prohibition ring about it. 

Now, kind reader, can you for a single moment imagine that 
Swedenborg did not mean to say what he so clearly says, that 
whisky is a pernicious drink, and that it would be better if its use 
were done away with altogether? Do healthy drinks impair the 
morality of men? Do you think, as the Academy represents in 
the above quotation from its serial, that it was not the whisky 
which was pernicious, and which was demoralizing and destroy- 
ing his countrymen ; but simply the consumption of grain for 
making whisky, thereby threatening a famine, and thus destroy- 
ing the Swedish people by starvation ? But, when the Academy 
attempts to sustain a bad cause by the use of falses, it is very 
liable to make contradictory statements which defeat its object. 
Turning to other parts of the review, we find it zealously advocat- 
ing the doctrine that whisky and alcohol are good and useful 
articles for man to drink; and it even makes the following 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 131 

Statement, which seems to give special delight: "Many 
accredited authors acknowledge that alcohol, so far from being a 
poison, is food." Now, perhaps the Academy will be able to 
tell us, if alcohol is food, how the conversion of grain into 
whisky, which is diluted alcohol, should threaten the starvation of 
the Swedish people, as it represents? It certainly looks very 
much as though this organization was "groping in hopeless 
darkness" upon this subject, amid the most destructive falses. 

We ask every intelligent and disinterested reader, if it would 
not be difficult to find in the English language a more gross 
misrepresentation of the views of another than is contained in 
the above quotation from the Academy's organ, in regard to the 
testimony of Swedenborg, as contained in the above quotations 
from the Documents, and all in the interests of whisky ? 

But upon the subject of alcohol, as a poison, the Academy has 
discovered a mare's nest, with a very large egg lying therein. 
Ay I with the Irishman of the story, tliey have seen a colt in the 
form of a rabbit skipping from behind a stump. We can readily 
imagine how they chuckled, and how the members said among 
themselves : " Now, we have caught Dr. Ellis, surely, once more, 
in another of his 'lamentable, perverted interpretations of 
Swedenborg's teachings.' " The following is the Academy's colt 
from the mare's egg : «^ ^^ 

" As an additional " proof that alcohol is not essentially a poison, the 
experiments of Dr. Ford show that it exists in minute quantities in the 
tissues of even the most rigid * teetotaler.' It is formed from hepatic sugar, 
and may be readily detected by chromic acid and other chemicals." 

Well, gentlemen of the Academy, we think if you had con- 
sulted any work on physiology and animal chemistry, you would 
not have placed before your readers such a stupid and simple 
argument to prove that alcohol is not a poison, simply because it 
is found in the tissues of a man who never drinks it ; for you 
would have learned that carbon, also, is found in the tissues and 
blood of every one, as the result of the decomposition of sub- 
stances which have been taken as food and drink ; precisely as 
alcohol, when not taken in food or drink, if found in the tissues, 



132 • THE ACADEMY AND THE 

results from the decomposition of substances which, having been 
taken to supply the legitimate wants of the body, and having per- 
formed their use, are cast out in a very different form from that 
in which they entered the mouth. But if the carbon is not re- 
moved from the system, by uniting with oxygen to form carbonic 
acid gas and by exhalation, the man dies within a very few minutes. 
So urea is found in the tissues, resulting from the decomposition 
and decay of worn-out materials from the tissues, which are 
thus removed to make way for new materials ; but if urea is not 
removed from the body by the kidneys steadily, the man dies 
in a very few days, poisoned by this substance. Now, does the 
fact that urea is found in the tissues prove that it is a suitable 
article for food, or that urine, which contains it in its passage 
from the body, is not a poison ? — and that it is every way a suit- 
able and desirable drink, and should be temperately used for this 
purpose? What nonsense to use such arguments in favor of 
whisky-drinking. 

i We would simply intimate to our friends of the Academy, that 
silence upon this subject would much better become a Theo- 
logical Academy than such arguments as the one under consid- 
eration, for there is no end to the illustrations which clearly 
demonstrate the absurdity and falsity of such positions. Even 
the fecal matter from the bowels, excepting a portion of indigest- 
ible material, have once been in the tissues of the body, and 
come from the decomposition of such tissues, but they have been 
hurried out through the blood, and separated in the intestines : 
but let a leak from a water-closet pipe, or the drainage from 
a sewer, contaminate the water which men drink, and we soon 
have developed a malignant form of inflammation of the mucous 
membrane of the digestive organs with malignant fever in some 
of the individuals who drink it. 

There is another small ^gg, from which the Academy's organ 
attempts to hatch another unanswerable argument, to prove that 
intoxicating drinks are good and useful. It is as follows : 

" Many accredited authors acknowledge that alcohol, so far from being 
a poison, is a foo4f The organism may for a variable perio4 subsist exclu- 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 133 

sively upon even absolute alcohol, one to one and a half ounces, daily, and 
actually gain in weight." 

Alcohol, like opium, and some other poisons, retards and, 
under certain circumstances, may temporarily stop the waste, or 
removal of worn-out substances through the kidneys, bowels, lungs 
and skin, which is so necessary for the health of the body ; and 
alcohol, when taken into the stomach, craves water and robs the 
tissues, and may even absorb some moisture from the atmos- 
phere, but no intelligent physiologist, admitting all that the 
Academy claims, would say that such gaining in weight would be 
a healthy gain. A man would gain in weight by eating putrid or 
decaying animal flesh, or rotting vegetables, or rattle-snakes, 
poison and all, but does that make such substances healthy and 
proper food ? To the dog, decaying animal flesh is natural food, 
for his organism is adapted to its use, and he even delights in the 
odor arising therefrom ; but it is not grateful to the cat nor to 
man, any more than the breath of the man who drinks intoxi- 
cating drinks is pleasant to the temperate man. It does seem 
that the Academy must be very hard pressed for legitimate 
arguments when it will descend to such arguments as the above. 

Alcohol, we repeat, and at this day it cannot be repeated too 
often, is the " prince of poisons," — more to be feared and 
shunned than the poison which causes diphtheria and typhoid 
diseases. Where is the parent who cares for the present and 
future of his children who would not rather see his son sick 
with diphtheria or typhoid fever, from contaminated water, than 
to see him drunk, or suffering from delirium tremens. There is 
no other poison on earth which, when voluntarily taken, so per- 
verts, diseases, pollutes and degrades a man both physically and 
spiritually as alcohol. How can any man encourage and justify 
the use of such a fluid ? 

Still further, the Academy has discovered that a medical writer 
has declared that alcohol is useful in some cases of hemorrhage, 
and therefore it would apparently have the reader infer that it is 
a good and useful beverage for the healthy. That alcohol, like 
Other poisons, may sometimes be used advantageously, as a 



134 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

remedy, we do not question. Its action is to paralyze the capil- 
lary vessels, and thereby fill them with blood, and in cases of 
hemorrhage, by thus temporarily storing up the blood in these 
minute vessels, and preventing the heart from forcing it out of the 
body through the ruptured vessels, and by thus congesting the 
minute vessels of the brain, it prevents fatal syncope or fainting, 
and when thus used as a medicine it is useful. 

So is ergot, or spurred rye, useful for restraining hemorrhages, 
but its continued use causes gangrene of the feet, a disease no 
more, peculiarly the effects of this poison, than drunkenness is of 
alcohol. It is strange that men of intelUgence should bring for- 
ward such an argument to justify the use of intoxicating drinks, 
and that not a single member of the Academy should have called 
attention to the utter fallacy of such an argument. 

We quote the following from the Academy's serial : 

" In bold contrast with the pamphlet of Dr. Ellis, is an article 
which appeared in the New Jerusalem Magazine for March, 
1880. 

"Viewing the subject impartially, and accepting the teachings 
of the Church, without trying to distort them to favor precon- 
ceived ideas, the writer deduces a clear statement of the true 
uses of wines and liquors. 

" As an illustration of this antithesis, we quote the following : 
* Wine was used in the Holy Supper, and the Lord tells His disciples to 
drink ye all of it; for, He says, "This is my blood of the New Covenant 
which is shed for many." This use of wine in the Most Holy Sacrament is 
perfectly conclusive of its having a good signification. If it were not in 
itself good, if it were poisonous or injurious to the body it could not cor- 
respond to the Divine Blood or Truth, nor would it be used with " bread," 
the other nutritious element. The Lord could not have drunk wine if it 
were a bad thing in itself, or " pernicious," as Dr. Ellis styles it. "' 

The second paragraph above contains a queer statement, to 
say the least, coming from the Academy as it does. To repre- 
sent the writer as striving to distort the teachings of the Church 
to favor preconceived ideas sounds strangely ; whether this repre- 
sentation is just or not the reader will have a chance to judge before 
the writer gets through with the Academy. But he will here say : 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. IJS 

the ideas of total abstinence from all intoxicating drinks did not 
descend to him from the perversions of a fallen state of a preced- 
ing Church, neither did he inherit them from his ancestors ; they 
were not the views of his childhood and early youth, but they 
were formed after dehberately examining the subject during his 
adult life ; such an examination having satisfied him that to use 
these drinks was to violate the laws of his physical organization 
and the laws of God, which required him to neither harm nor 
kill himself, nor to risk his own life needlessly, nor injiu-e his 
fellow-man by his example. And beyond all this, these laws 
required him to deny whatever hereditary inclination he might 
have inherited, and whatever taste he might have acquired for 
the use of such drinks during his early life ; and to shun their 
use as endangering his health and natural life and his eternal 
welfare, and from the time of his first acquaintance with the 
writings of the New Church, to shun their use as a sin against 
God. 

In regard to the representation contained in the second para- 
graph above, quoted from the New Jerusalem Magazine, the 
writer has never held such views as are there attributed to him. 
Not one word which he has ever spoken or written would justify 
such representations ; and in the very tract which the Academy 
is reviewing he says : "Natural wine corresponds to spiritual wine 
— not to truth alone, for wine signifies spiritual love or love to 
the neighbor as well as truth. In fact, ' The correspondence of 
wine is one of the very highest. It is given as faith (A. C. 1070) ; 
as spiritual good (A. C. 2187, 2343, 3513, 3596) ; as love to the 
neighbor (A. C. 3570) ; and in the supreme sense as Divine 
Truth out oCthe Divine Good of the Lord (A. C. 6377).'" 
The author would refer to the following extract from the same 
tract : 

" Wine has a similar signification to blood. Blood is composed, not 
simply of water, which is from the mineral kingdom, and corresponds to 
truths upon the natural plane of life, and is the medium through which 
nourishment is conveyed to every part of the material body, but it also 
contains in a state of solution, all the substances required to warm and 
build up the material body, which correspond to good, all harmoniously 



136 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

f 
blended in one fluid, a living current which is to the body of man what 
Divine Truth, always united with Divine Good, is to his soul. It is per- 
fectly clear that wine has a similar signification, because it has a similar 
composition. It has the water from the mineral kingdom; the sugar, which 
is so delightful to the innocent child, and which is appropriated to warm 
the material body; the gluten or bread-part, which gives substance to the 
various tissues; the phosphorus for the brain, the lime for the bones; the 
potash for the tendons and ligaments; and there is perhaps no part of the 
body which does not receive some nourishment from pure unfermented 
wine." 

Do the above passages look as though Dr. Ellis styles wine as 
a bad thing in itself, or pernicious? What he did say, and 
desires here to repeat, is that : 

" With most of the nourishing substances referred to above, 
which are contained in the pure juice of the grape, and which 
correspond to good, either entirely or partially destroyed, preci- 
pitated, or converted into poisonous compounds, even with the 
delightful sugar perverted by leaven into alcohol, which is so 
repugnant to the taste of the innocent child, what relation has 
fermented wine to blood? Its correspondence may have 
been appropriate to a state of the Church, when faith was 
separated from charity ; but how any intelligent New Chiu-chman 
can sanction the use of fermented wine is an increasing wonder 
to the writer. It is in vain to attempt to justify the use of 
fermented wine, and other alcoholic drinks, from the standpoint 
of the Bible, the Writings of Swedenborg, or from modem science, 
until the great doctrine of correspondences between all natural 
things, processes and habits, and their spiritual causes, is abso- 
lutely overthrown. This correspondence extends to things even 
the most minute." 

The writer denies that the good wine of the Word, which is a 
blessing, of which the Lord and his disciples partook, was fer- 
mented wine whidi causes drunkenness ; but claims that it was 
the fruit of the vine, cither the pure, recently expressed juice of 
the grape, or that juice preserved from fermentation, by one of 
the various processes well known to the ancients, and carefully 
described by the ancient writers. 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 1 37 

It does seem so strange, that with the tract lying before them 
on " Pure Wine, Fermented Wine, etc." Words for the New 
Church could have deliberately quoted the above paragraph 
from the Magazine! It is but just to say that one of the editors 
of the Magazine y seeing the injustice and wrong which was done 
by a similar misrepresentation of the writer's views in the Maga- 
zine, has amply and honorably apologized for the same in its 
pages, so that of the Magazine he makes no complaint. 

"But," says the Academy, "there are some statements, which 

we think Mr. would not have made if he had first 

examined the writings. He asserts, for example, that intemper- 
ance in drinking is a greater evil than intemperance in eating. 
Most evidently the abuse of good is more damaging than the 
abuse of truth, and so may we not conclude that gluttony, or 
intemperance in eating, is more damaging and brutalizing than 
intemperance in drinking." 

Now, friends of the Academy, you have not fairly stated the 
question at issue, which is not " whether the abuse of good is 
more damaging than the abuse of truth," but rather whether im- 
bibing falsities from evil is not more damaging than the abuse of 
good, for Swcdenborg compares intoxicating drinks to falses 
from evil. It is an insult to your intelligent readers, and aii 
outrage on the common sense of mankind, to compare the eating 
of healthy food, which has a heavenly origin, or even its abuse or 
intemperate use, to the use of intoxicating drinks, which, accord- 
ing to the philosophy of Swedenborg, originate from hell, and 
which have hurt and killed more of the human family than all 
other poisons put together ; and which, in our day, are hurting 
and killing more men and women than all other poisons, war, 
pestilence and famine, destructive wild animals, and serpents 
put together. Even in the form of fermented wine, such drinks 
are compared in the Bible to the poison of serpents, and the 
cruel venom of asps. Talk of the temperate use of intoxicating 
drinks— even that old "heathen philosopher," Aristotle, as we 
have shown, teaches you a very different lesson from this. You 
might as well talk of temperate stealing, temperate bearing of 



13^ THE ACADEMY AND THE 

false witness, or of murdering temperately, for not more surely do 
such violations of the divine law damage man's spiritual nature 
than the so-called temperate use of intoxicating drinks impairs 
man's physical and moral nature. 

But, after finding so much in the Academy's Words for the 
New Church which is erroneous, and which we have felt it our 
duty to expose and criticise somewhat plainly, we are happy to 
call the attention of the reader to a portion of their review, which 
teaches the truth, and clearly illustrates the same firom the 
Writings of Swedenborg. Although we had exposed the error 
in our tract, and called special attention to it, to which reference 
is made, yet we are very happy to reproduce the essential part of 
the testimony of the Academy's argument in reply to the writer 
in the New Jerusalem Magazine, For the point is a very essen- 
tial one in this discussion — in fact, as will hereafter be seen, a 
vital one. 

Speaking of the errors into which the writer in the New Jeru- 
salem Magazine had fallen, the Academy's organ says : 

"A more serious error is the statement, that the imbibing of 
more truths than we are ready to apply to the various uses of 
life makes us spiritual drunkards. This view must have crept 
into the New Church from the Old, for there is nothing in the 
Writings of Swedenborg which sustains such an opinion. Spiritual 
drunkenness is something quite different from this, as we learn 
from the Writings. We read in the * Arcana' : 

'Those are called drunkards, who believe nothing but what they compre- 
hend, and therefore investigate the mysteries of faith; in consequence of 
which they necessarily fall into errors. * * * The error and insanity 
hence derived are called in the Word drunkenness ; and souls or spirits in 
another life, who argue about the truths of faith and against them, become 
like drunkards, conducting themselves similarly.' (A. C. 1072.) 

* To be intoxicated from the cup is to be insane from falses.' (A. C, 
5120, 9960.) 

" So in the ' Apocal)T>se Revealed ' : 

*To be made drunk with the wine of whoredom signifies to become 
insane in spiritual things from the falsification of the truths of the Word; 
here from the adulteration of them.* (A. I<. 721 ; see also A. E. 1035, Vl^-^ 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 139 

^'But nowhere do we find a statement that if we imbibe more 
truths than we are ready to apply to the various uses of life, we 
are spiritual ' drunkards.* 

"Surely he cannot be called intemperate, who stores his 
memory with more truths than he is ready to apply, else all 
school-children would be spiritual drunkards. Man becomes a 
spiritual drunkard only when, from self-intelligence, he argues 
about truths, and especially if against them. 

" The more truths a man acquires the better, that his rational 
principle may thence be formed and that these truths may serve 
in his memory as vessels to receive faith and charity. 

" For we read : 

'That faith is perfected in proporjion to the number and coherence of 
truths. NoW since faith in its essence is truth, it follows that faith becomes 
more and more perfectly spiritual in proportion to the number and coher- 
ence of truths, and consequently less and less sensual-natural; for it is thus 
exalted into a higher region of the mind, from whence it views below it in 
the natural world numberless circumstances and proofs that tend to confirm it. 
True faith, by means of such a number of truths cohering, as in a fascicle or 
bundle, becomes also more illustrated, more perceptible, more evident, and 
more clear; it acquires also a greater capacity of being conjoined with the 
goods of charity, and hence of being in a state of greater alienation from evils; 
and it becomes by degrees more and more removed from the allurements of 
the eye and the lusts of the flesh, and consequently is rendered happier in 
itself: it becomes particularly more powerful against evils and falses, and 
thence more and more a living and a saving faith.' " (T. C. R. 352.) 

How wonderful that the Academy of the New Church, with 
aJl its intelligence and wisdom, in its zeal to expose the errors 
into which the writer in the New Jerusalem Magazine had mani- 
festly fallen y should have been so forgetful of its position as to 
stultify its own argument, and so completely overturn the plat- 
form upon which itself was standing, as it does in the above 
quotations from its serial. 

If, then, the imbibing of spiritual truths never causes spiritual 
drunkenness, as is so clearly proven, how certain it is that the 
drinking of natural fluids, which legitimately correspond to spiritual 
truths, can never cause natural drunkenness. In other words, as 



.I40 . THE ACADEMY AND THE 

fermented wine and whisky do cause natural drunkenness, it is 
perfectiy clear, and as certain as correspondences are true, that 
these fluids do not correspond to genuine spiritual truths which 
never cause spiritual drunkenness. We think our brethren of 
the Academy cannot fail to see that they themselves are fairly 
caught, to use their own courteous language, in presenting such 
"perverted interpretations of Swedenborg's teachings," as show 
that they themselves are "groping m hopeless darkness." { 

Our friends of the Academy do not seem to understand how 
pure, unfermented wine can cheer and warm the heart of man, 
nor how " com shall make the young men cheerful, and new wine 
the maids" (Zech. ix. 7). 

"I am sorry,", says the. Rev. J. M. Van Buren, "to say an 
attempt has been made to justify the use of intoxicating drinks 
for the purpose of exhilaration by an appeal to the Bible. As 
this is the very thing that leads to drunkenness, and is the begin- 
ning of it, we may be sure that the passages supposed to prove it, 
may have another meaning. And so we find it (Eccl. ix. 7) : 
'Eat thy bread with joy and drink thy wine with a merry heart' 
The Hebrew word rendered merry,' means ^good, ' upright^ 
* virtuous,^ Put either of these meanings in the place of * merry,' 
and instead of the idea of an alcoholic exhilaration, we have a 
sentiment of piety consistent with Gospel temperance." 

In speaking of the effects of alcoholic preparations. Words for 
the New Church says : 

"Ideas flow more freely, the senses are more acute. As the 
ambrosial odor of wine greets the nostrils, the affections are 
vivified, and thus is formed a social sphere which transforms 
a listless company into a chatty, brilliant, and entertaining party. 
Rudeness and inciviUty give place to aesthetic refinement, and 
charity finds one of its most delightful recreations." 

Such words as the above are neither wise nor useful, and it 
would seem to be high time that our ecclesiastical friends of the 
Academy, should hear and heed the warning voice of others. 

A recent writer truly says : 
^. "Making drunk, includes all the preparatory processes of 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. I41 

drinking ; the sin does not lie in the last glass. All are united 
in the result. That which begins the work and inflames the 
appetite has the chief responsibility." 

Our brethren should remember that violence, manifest drunk- 
enness, and woe lie but one very short step beyond that state of 
excitement which they have described above as so desirable. 

" * It is not for kings to drink wine, nor princes strong drink. 
I^st they drink and forget the law and pervert the judgment of 
tlie afflicted.' Here is abstinence enjoined, and the reason for 
it plainly given. Again (Lev. x. 8-1 1), // is required of the 
priests: *And the Lord spake unto Aaron, saying, Do not drink 
wine nor strong drink, thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go 
into the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die : it shall be a 
statute for ever throughout your generations. That ye may put a 
difference between holy and unholy, and between unclean and 
clean. And that ye may teach the children of Israel all the 
statutes which the Lord hath spoken unto them by the hand of 
Moses.'" 

No one questions but that the wiiie referred to above as 
unholy and unclean is fermented wine, and no one supposes for a 
moment that it is unfermented wine. " But they also have erred 
through wine, and through strong drink are out of the way ; the 
priest and the prophet have erred through strong drink, they are 
swallowed up of wine, they are out of the way through strong 
drink, they err in vision, Ihey stumble in judgment. For all 
tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there is no place 
clean " (Isa. xxviii. 7, 8) . 

How correctly and literally do the above words represent the 
effects of drinking wine and strong drinks, seen to-day as of old. 
Oh, gentiemen of the Academy ! beware ! beware ! "Woe to 
him that giveth his neighbor drink ; that puttest thy bottle to 
him" (Hab. ii. 5, 15). You have young and inexperienced 
men under your charge. May the Lord protect them. 

Philo, a learned Jewish writer of Alexandria, who lived during 
the first half of the first century, is full of important statements. 



142 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

"In his treatise on * Monarchy' he cites, as indicating the doty 
of entire abstinence from wine, the prohibition to the priests j 
and says it was given for * most import^mt reasons ; that it pro- 
duces hesitation, forgetfulness, drowsiness and folly.' Dwelling 
on each of these bodily, mental, and religious evils, he says : 'In 
abstemious men all the parts of the body are more elastic, more 
active and pliable, the external senses are clearer and less 
obscured, and the mind is gifted with acute perception.' Further : 
'The use of wine * * * leaves none of our faculties free 
and unembarrassed ; but is a hindrance to every one of them, 
£o as to impede the attaining of that object for which each was 
fitted by nature. In sacred ceremonies and holy rites this mis- 
chief is most grievous of all, in proportion as it is worse to sin 
with respect to God than respect to man.' " — Divine Law as to 
Wines* 

Professor Tayler Lewis, in a recent pamphlet on "Wine-drink- 
ing and the Scriptures," says : 

" Our third class of texts, the directly ethical, where wine and 
its effects, instead of being incidentally mentioned, form the 
principal subject, are easily disposed of. They are all one way. 
Among others in the Old Testament see Prov. xxiii. -^9-35, xxxL 
4; Isa. V.I I, xxviii. i, 3, 7, 8; Jer. xxxv. i, 19; Dan. i. 8; 
Hos. iv.n; Joel i. 5 ; Amos vi. 6; Hab. ii. 5, 15. They con- 
demn, with no reference to excess or moderation. Wine-drinking 
is spoken of as a bad thing, leading to ruinous consequences. 

"There is one evil state of the soul condemned throughout the 
Bible. It is that state to which we give the name of intoxica- 
tion, or inebriation ; but which, having no term corresponding to 
it in the Hebrew, is described and most vividly set before us 
(Prov. xxiii. 29, 35) in its phenomena and effects. It is the act 
of a person in health, voluntarily, and without any other motive 
or reason than the pleasurable stimulus^ using any substance 
whatever, be it solid or liquid, to produce an unnatural change 
in his healthy mental and bodily state, either by way of exciting 
or quieting the nerves and brain, or quickening the pulse. This 
was wrong — a spiritual wrong, a sin per se — ^not a matter of 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 143 

excess merely, but wrong and evil in any, even the smallest 
measure or degree. Although there might be much ignorance 
in respect to its real internal causation, the outward substances 
known to produce this effect — ^above all, which were used for the 
very purpose of producing it (for here was the spiritual crime) — 
are denounced as something which men are not to touch, not 
even * to look at.* The description may be scientifically correct 
or erroneous; it may also be difiicult to determine, precisely, 
what is meant by certain Hebrew phrases in this remarkable pas- 
sage ; but the general sense, as well as the precise point intended, 
is unmistakably clear. It is intoxicating drink that is meant — 
intoxicating in any degree — drinks sought for that very purpose 
of producing such unnatural change in the healthy human system. 
There was to be no moderate drinking (or desire) here. How- 
ever gentle, exhilarating, convivial or pleasantiy soothing might 
be its first effects, at the last 'it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth 
like an adder.' 

" According to the ethics so noted for its condemnation of all 
fanaticism, we should have expected fi-om the experienced and 
conservative Solomon some wise inculcation of prudence, mode- 
ration, avoidance of excess, rational use of the good gifts of God, 
etc. Nothing of the kind. Abstinence, total abstinence, is the 
lesson, if language can convey that idea. * Do not look upon it,' 
my son ; turn away immediately, as from a venomous serpent ; 
think of its biting, stinging, maddening end, and let not thine 
eye yield for a moment to its ruby fascination. It was undoubt- 
edly purer wine than is now to be found on many Christian 
sideboards ; but the better it is, the more sparkling its hue, the 
more delightful to the palate as it * goes smoothly down,' so is it 
all the more dangerous. The language of the whole passage is 
most urgent, reminding us of that used (Prov. iv. 15) in respect 
to other tempting sins that lead to a dreadful end: * Avoid it, 
pass not by it, turn from it, pass away.' " 

Now, gentlemen of the Academy, we wish to ask a few ques- 
tions, and are encouraged to do so from the fact, that your sin- 
cerity in advocating the use of intoxicating drinks, such as fer- 



144 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

mented wine and whisky, as beverages, is not questioned by any 
one so far as we know. 

We would like to know if your practice is in harmony with the 
views proclaimed in your serial ? As priests or ministering ser- 
vants of the Lord in His efibrt to save man from all evil as far as 
possible, are you in the habit of drinking these intoxicating 
drinks in your social relations with each other? We are sorry to t 
say that we are compelled to infer that you are from the language 
which we have quoted from your serial. Are v/e mistaken ? 

The prevailing spirit of the people, in your missionary fields, 
does not sanction the use of intoxicating drinks as beverages ; in 
your missionary work do you strive to counteract this spirit? 

To how many young men and young women have you intro- 
duced the intoxicating cup ? 

Are you orally, as well as by Words for the New Church, 
teaching wives, mothers and daughters that it is lawful and use- 
ful for their husbands, sons, and brothers, to drink, as beverages, 
wine, whisky, and other intoxicating drinks ? 

Do you wish to withhold the young from using these articles 
as beverages, in places of amusement or elsewhere ? We can but 
infer that you do not. 

When you see young, middh-aged, or old men, priests or 
laymen, getting drunk, have you, with such teaching and exam- 
ple, any real ability to restrain them from this "enormous sin?" 
(See 2422 S. D.) 

Do you really think that parents who have reared their chil- 
dren chastely and soberly, if they were to know that your precepts 
and example favored the use of intoxicating drinks, would be 
willing to trust their education in such an institution as the 
Academy ? 

Have you considered carefully what effect your precepts and 
example may have on young men committed to your charge? 
If you have not, is it not of the divine mercy that the Academy 
has but few pupils ? 

Now, gentlemen, be frank with the Church. Let us know just 
where you stand, practically, on the question of intoxicating drinks. 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 145 

If, after looking at all sides of this question, parents are still 
willing to trust the education of their sons to your institution, 
then the responsibility will be in part with them, and not alto- 
gether with you. If there is any division of sentiment among 
you upon this great practical question of life, will you be so kind 
as to let the Church know it ? 

We give you, and the young men under your charge, and their 
parents, due notice that in the near future no young man who 
drinks fennented wine, beer, or whisky, or uses tobacco, and 
teaches that it is well and right to do so, and sets such an 
example before the youug, will be tolerated as a settled minister 
by the majority of the lay members of any society which is able 
to select and support a minister. 

We have made several quotations from the writings of Dr. B. 
W. Richardson, and we wish to call the attention of the teachers 
and students of the Academy, and others, to a recent work of his, 
entitled "Temperance Lesson-Book on Alcohol and its Action 
on the Body, designed for Reading in Schools and Families." It 
should be studied in every family and school. The following is 
a summary of the lessons contained therein at the end of the 
last chapter, which will give the reader some idea of the import- 
ance of the book. There is no liigher medical authority upon this 
subject than Dr. Richardson, for no one has experimented and 
watched the effects of alcohol more carefully than he has done : 

" Now that we have learned so much about alcohol as it ap- 
pears under the many disguises of strong drinks, we are, I trust, 
armed by our knowledge against its evil influences. We shall, 
however, still find many to defend the use of alcohol, for many, 
very many, are still ignorant about it; many, very many, are 
strongly prejudiced in favor of it ; many, very many, are so fond 
• of it they, cannot help praising it as a good thing for themselves, 
and therefore as a good thing for everybody. Such is the strange 
perversity of the human mind, that numbers of people who are 
gomg wrong, and who know they are going wrong, in the use of 
alcohol will still persist in their error, and with their eyes open to 

7. . . 



\ 



146 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

the wrotig they are doing, will persist in leading others with them. 
It is one part of the madness inflicted by alcohol on its friends, 
tiiat deceives them and in turn makes them deceivers. 

" You will have often in your lives to listen to the arguments of 
these persons. They will tell you a great deal of error, which 
you must be ready to hear, and at once recognize as error. You 
will be told that alcohol is a food because it warms the body. 
You know what that is worth. You know that alcohol only 
makes the body _/5f^/ warm because it causes more warm blood to 
come to the surface of the body, there to lose its heat and leave 
the body colder. You know that cold and alcohol exercise the 
same kind of influence on the body, and that when working in 
the cold, even in the extremest cold, that man will work longest 
and best who avoids alcohol altogether. 

"You will be told that alcohol is a food because it gives 
strength to the body and helps men and women to do more 
work. You know what that is worth. You know that the action 
of alcohol is to lessen the muscular power ; that it weakens the 
muscles, and that, carried a little too far, it disables them for 
work altogether, so that they cannot support the weight of the 
body. You know also from the experience of men who have 
performed great feats of strength and endurance that such men 
have been obliged to abstain from alcohol completely in order to 
succeed in their efforts, and have beaten other men by reason of 
their careful abstinence. 

"You will be told that alcohol is a food, because it makes the 

body fat and plump and well nourished. You know what that is 

worth. You know that there is nothing in alcohol that can make 

any vital structure of the body ; you know that tlie best that can 

[ be said about alcohol in this matter is that in some forms in which 

1 it is taken, as beer for instance, it may, because of the sugar in 

• such drink, add fat to the body ; and you know that this is really 

not a good addition, because much fat interferes with the motion 

of the vital organs, makes the body heavy and unwieldy, and 

getting into, the structure of organs, such as the heart or kidneys;, 

makes these organs incapable of work, and so destroys life. 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 147 

"You will be told that alcohol makes you digest your food, 
and helps people with weak digestion to enjoy their food and 
digest it. You know what that is worth. You know that every 
other animal except man can enjoy and digest food without 
alcohol, and that men who never touch alcohol may have excel- 
lent digestive power. You know also that alcohol impairs 
digestion, and that in thousands of people it keeps up a con- 
tinual state of indigestion, and that the indigestion itself is a 
temptation to these to take alcohol to a fatal excess. 

"You will be told that if alcohol be not a food, in the strict 
sense of the word, it is, notwithstanding, a luxury which a man 
cannot do without with comfort to himself; that it cheers the 
heart, and is necessary for mirth and pleasure. You know what 
that is worth. You know that young people, like yourselves, can 
laugh and play and be as happy as the day is long without ever 
tasting a drop of alcohol. You know that hundreds of men and 
women are as happy as they can be without a drop of alcohol, 
and are much freer from worry and anger and care about mere 
trifles than are those who take alcohol. You know, moreover, 
that after men or women have been cheered, as they call it, by 
alcohol, they suffer a corresponding depression, and are made 
often so miserable that life is a burden to them until once again 
they have recourse to their cause of short happiness and long 
sorrow. 

"Lastly, whatever argument you may hear in favor of alcohol, 
you are now fully aware of its fatal power ; how it kills men and 
women wholesale, sending some to the grave straightway, and 
some to the grave through that living grave, the asylum for the 
insane. 

"This is your knowledge. I would not advise you as juniors 
to intrude it in argument on your seniors, for that were presump- 
tuous. But treasure it in your hearts. Let it keep you in the 
path of perfect abstinence from alcohol in every disguise, and 
believe me, as a man who has seen much of men, that your 
example will be all the more effective with older persons because 
it is a young example. Believe, finally, that you yourselves will. 



148 THE ACADEMY AND THE WINE QUESTION. 

under the rule of total abstinence, grow up strengthened in 
wisdom, industry, and happiness, and that your success in life 
will reward you a thousand-fold for every sacrifice of false indul- 
gence in that great curse of mankind — strong drink." 

In the first chapter of the work, the writer says : 

"To persons who have never tasted intoxicating drinks many 
of them are nauseous when first tasted. Even to grown-up men, 
who have never before taken these liquids into their mouths, the 
first taste is like that which is felt on taking a medicine. The 
taste is said to be bitter in respect to ales, clammy and sickening 
in respect to porter and stout, burning and sickening in respect 
to spirits, and burning and sour, or burning and sweet, in respect 
to the wines. 

" In all my experience I never once knew a person who liked 
tiie first taste of any of the drinks we are now thinking about. 
This fact seems to me to show clearly that it was never intended 
that human beings should take these drinks regularly. If that 
had been intended, the drinks would have been made and given 
to us in a form that would have been pleasant to the taste, or at 
all events in a form that would not be so unpleasant, that the 
instinctive or natural feeling is opposed, to them. Water and 
milk are natural drinks. They are neither bitter nor nauseous, 
Dor acid, nor burning, and therefore even the youngest infants 
and children take them without dislike, and look for them with 
quite a longing desire when they want to drink. 

"It is a lesson early to be remembered, and so I write it down 
early in this book, that although there are so many drinks made 
and sold as beers, wines, and spirits, none of them are fitted to 
the first natural wants and desires of man. I gather fi-om the 
facts before us that the said drinks are therefore not wanted at all." 

We hope the students of the Academy and the young men and 
maidens of the New Church will hear and heed these important 
words. 



CHAPTER X. 

THE COMPARISONS OF EMANUEL SWEDENBORG AND THE ACADEMY'S 
INTERPRETATIONS. 

Processes, although very different in their results, may be com- 
pared, as the separation of individuals and the organization of 
societies in hell may be compared with the separation and organi- 
zation of societies in heaven, for in both they are organized accord- 
ing to the ruling loves of those who dwell therein ; but such a 
comparison does not make hell desirable, nor the life which leads 
to hell a desirable one. Comparisons, when made by Sweden- 
borg, may or may not be according to correspondences ; but the 
spiritual world, being the world of causes, effects must always of 
necessity correspond to the causes which have produced them. 
When Swedenborg compares, as he does in No. 1035 A. E., 
"falses from evil to such wine and strong drinks as induce 
drunkenness ; wherefore, also, that insanity, in the Word, is said 
to be effected by wine of whoredom and the wine of Babel, in 
Jeremiah li. 7," it is not difficult to understand and see that this 
comparison is written in accordance with correspondences ; but 
when the Academy, in Words for the New Church, claims that 
alcohol is not a poison, from the comparison which Swedenborg 
makes in C. L. 145, *' where it is written that spiritual purification 
may be compared with the purification of natural spirits which is 
done by chemists, and is called defecation, rectification, castiga- 
tion, cohobation, acution, decantation and sublimation ; and 
wisdom purified may be compared with alcohol which is spirit 
most highly rectified ; " it is not easy to see the correspondence ; 
and when from this comparison they attempt to justify the use of 
intoxicating drinks, and even whisky, it is not difhcult to see how 
far they have wandered from the truth. The great object of the 
above processes for purifying spirits, is especially to remove all 



ISO COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG AND 

the water and other substances which these fluids ordinarily* 
contain. Take the fermented wine, for instance, from which this 
pure alcohol can be made by the processes named by Sweden- 
borg in this comparison, everything, including the water as far as 
possible, is carefully removed, leaving pure spirits or alcohol. This 
pure spirit, we know by its effects, corresponds to falses from 
evil, and is to the human body a caustic fluid, and no one but 
the hardest " old toper," the mucous membrane of whose mouth 
and stomach has been indurated by a long course of drunkenness, 
would ever attempt to drink it. This pure spirit, when drank in 
a given quantity, causes drunkenness, and even death, more 
speedily than any other intoxicating drink ; and yet the Academy 
would have us understand, that this purified alcohol, which 
never has been used, and which cannot be used by any sober, 
sane man, as a drink, corresponds to wisdom purified, and is 
every way a suitable drink for man. Try it on a child ! We ask 
every intelligent reader, if wisdom purified, in its action upon the 
spirit of man, bears any resemblance to the action of this pure 
spirit upon his body and mind ? The Academy does not seem 
able to see that Svvedenborg is here simply comparing a spiritual 
and a natural process of purification, and the purity of wisdom 
with the purity of alcohol thus produced, and that his compari- 
son in no way destroys the poisonous quality of the alcohol, or 
renders it a suitable article for drinking, as all experience shows. 
As upon the above comparison, and another by Swedenborg, 
the Academy has based almost, if not quite all, of its arguments 
in favor of the use of intoxicating drinks, we will quote the latter 
in full, and call the special attention of the reader to the incon* 
sistency of the construction which they put upon it ; 

" *A man's understanding is receptive of good as well as of evil, 
and of truth as well as of falsity, but not his will, which must be 
either in evil or in good ; it cannot be in both, for the will is the 
man himself, and therein is his life's love. But good and evil in 
the understanding are separated, like internal and external; 
hence a man may be interiorly in evil, and exteriorly in good. 



INTERPRETATIONS BY THE ACADEMY. 151 

Still, however, when a man is reformed, good and evil enter into 
combat, and there then exists a conflict or battle, which, if 
grievous, is called temptation ; but if not, is like the fermentation 
of wine or wort. In such a case, if good overcomes, evil with its 
falsities is removed to the sides, as the lees fall to the bottom of 
a vessel ; and good becomes like generous wine after fermenta- 
tion, or clear liquor ; but if evil overcomes, good with its truth is 
removed to the sides, and it becomes turbid and foul like unfer- 
mented wine or unfermented liquor. This comparison of fer- 
mentation is used because leaven in the Word signifies the 
falsity of evil, as in Hosea vii. 4 ; Luke xii. i : and in other 
places/ (D. P. 284.) 

" In this beautiful extract, evil with its falsities is compared with 
leaven and with the lees ; and good is compared with generous 
wine. One would naturally infer that these respective compari- 
sons indicate resemblances between the objects compared ; and 
hence that good and wine were both genuine. And this conclu- 
sion would seem to be the more evident from the adjective which 
Swedenborg uses ; for generous^ when applied to wine, means 
noble, vigorous, pure, good." 

For a correct understanding of the above comparison, various 
points must be borne in mind. 

First : That the word generous, as here used, does not neces- 
sarily mean good, but it undoubtedly means vigorous or strong in 
this instance. In this sense, the term is used by medical writers 
at this day. 

Second : In the process of fermentation, the gluten contained 
in the wine as it is pressed from the grape, and which nourishes 
the body of man as good does his soul, which is, in fact, similar 
to the gluten in bread, !s actually overcome and destroyed to the 
extent fermentation progresses by the leaven, and the sugar 
which, we are told by Swedenborg, corresponds to spiritual 
delights, is often entirely destroyed, and even the vegetable salts 
so useful to man, are, to a great extent, changed or precipitated, 
BO that it is perfectly clear that the changes which take place during 



.152 COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG AND 

fermentation do not in the slightest degree correspond with the 
spiritual changes which take place in man s regeneration. 

Then, by what authority does the Academy's organ say that in 
the above extract, evil with its falsities is compared with leaven 
and lees. It vnW be seen that this representation is not correct ; 
for it is the combat and separation and falling to the bottom which 
is compared, and not the leaven and lees. Lees have a good sig- 
nification when this word is used in a good sense, as in Isaiah xxv. 6. 
Speaking of the " feast of fat things, and wine on the lees, wine 
on the lees well refined": "By the feast of fat things, of fat 
things full of marrow," says Swedenborg, "is signified good, both 
natural and spiritual, with joy of heart ; and by the lees, and 
lees refined, are signified truths from that good with the felicity 
thence derived.'* (A. E. 1159.) "A feast of fat things signi- 
fies the appropriation and communication of good, and by a /eas^ 
of Zees, or the best wine, the appropriation of truth" (A. E. 252), 
called a ^' feast of lees, " ( A. C. 5 943 . ) Such is the signification of 
lees when they result simply frofn the settling, after straining or fil- 
tering — refining — of the heavier portions of the grape juice or new 
wine. But it is perfecdy evident that the lees which fall to the bot- 
tom during the fermentation of wine can have no such signification, 
. so that the Academy, after all, is not so far from the truth, when 
it claims that lees are compared by Swedenborg to falsities^ and, 
consequently, according to their philosophy, correspond to falsities. 
Swedenborg, it will be seen, as if afraid his readers might mistake 
the true meaning of the above comparison, says : "This com- 
parison of fermentation is used because leaven in the Word 
signifies the falsity of evil." If the lees, which fall to the 
bottom from the action of leaven on wine, instead of having a 
good signification as they do when they are used in a good sense 
in the Word, have a bad signification, how can the wine firom 
which such lees have been separated fail to have an evil signifi- 
cation? Unfermented wine, at the commencement of ferment- 
ation, in which state it is generally seen at this day when no 
effort is made to prevent fermentation, is turbid and foul from 
the commencing action of leaven, and in this state it is unwhole- 



INTERPRETATIONS BY THE ACADEMY. 153 

;some to the stomach ; and Swedenborg explains fully what he 
means when he says that "good becomes like generous ( or strong) 
wine after fermentation," by what he adds — "or clear liquor." 

It seems so strange that men, as well read in the writings of 
the Church as the members of the Academy are supposed to be, 
should make such a serious and grave mistake, as to attempt to 
justify the use of intoxicating drinks from such comparisons as 
the above found in the Writings of Swedenborg ; when the very 
comparisons which they select, teach a very different doctrine, 
which is, as we have seen sustained by reason, facts, and science ; 
the pure spirit or alcohol of the one comparison being so ob- 
noxious and irritating that no one but a drunkard would ever 
think of drinking it, and even the lees of the other comparison, 
admitted by the Academy to correspond to falsities. Is it strange 
that Swedenborg should inform us, as he does in the passage 
already quoted, that the resulting wine may be compared to 
falses from evil ? — please remember it is not the process which he 
here compares, but the wine itself. How are we to account for 
this, strange state of darkness in which the "Academy of the New 
Church " so manifestly dwells upon this most vital question, so 
intimately affecting the welfare of the New Church and the world ? 
In reply to this question, we will first state that, according to the 
Writings of Swedenborg, the first Christian Church came to its end 
over a century ago, through evils of life and the falsifications of the 
doctrines taught by the Lord when on earth, and by His disciples 
soon after His ascension. Even the ordinances of the Church be- 
came perverted, until a wine which was prohibited to the Jews, and 
which was providentially prohibited, owing to its known poisorous 
qualities, by Mohammed to his followers, and which was regarded 
as so polluted, that even the ancient heathen would not dare to 
offer it to their gods, was substituted for the passover cup, or the 
fruit of the vine, or unfermented wine, of which our Lord and 
His disciples partook at the last supper. And this sad perversion 
seems to have descended to the New Church Academy unques- 
tioned, and they seem to have been strongly confirmed in such 
fidse views, even to the extent of justifying the use of intoxicating 



154 COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG Am^ 

drinks as beverages, from which we may as rightfully select and 
use as we may from beneficial articles of food or drink. 

Swedenborg says : "Those who are in falses, and especially 
those who are in evils, are said to be bound and in prison ; not 
that they are in any bonds, but because they are not in freedom ; 
those who are not in freedom being interiorly bound ; for those 
who have confirmed themselves in what is false are no longer in 
freedom of choosing and accepting the truth, and those who have 
much confirmed themselves therein are not in freedom to see it, 
still less to acknowledge and believe it, for they are in the per- 
suasion that what is false is true, and what is true is false ; so 
powerful is this persuasion, that it takes away all freedom of 
thinking anything else, consequently it holds the thought itself 
in bonds and as it were in a prison. This I had much opportunity 
of being convinced of, experimentally, from those in the other 
life who have been in a persuasion of the false by confirmations 
in themselves ; they do not at all admit truths, but reflect or 
strike them back again, and this with an obstinacy proportion- 
ate to the degree of persuasion ; especially when the false is 
grounded in evil, or when evil has persuaded them.'* (A. C. 
5096.) 

From the above we can see how difficult it is for men who are 
confirmed in falses to see the truth, and especially for those who 
are in evils to see the truth which condemns those evils. Men 
did not often see that slavery was wrong while they held slaves, 
and this fearful wrong was justified from the point of view t)f the 
Bible by many clergymen, and, if we mistake not, by some clergy- 
men of the New Church ; but now, that, in the providence of 
the Lord, slavery has been overthrown, few, if any, fail to see that 
slavery was wrong. It is equally, if not even more, difficult, to 
see that evil habits of life are evil, so long as we continue to 
indulge in them. The woman who compresses her waist does not 
see that tight- dressing harms her, and is consequently an evil, so 
long as she continues this pernicious habit, which does so much to 
ruin the health of women, impair the vitality of our race, and 
shorten human life. She actually feels that tight-dressing does her 



INTERPRETATIONS BY THE ACADEMY. I5S 

good every time she indulges in it — ^without it she feels all gone, 
precisely as the rum-drinker does who has not had his morning 
dram. The man who habitually uses that disgusting and deadly 
poison, tobacco, does not feel that it injures him, and that it is 
wrong to use it : how can he ? He " hankers " after it, and suffers 
when he attempts to leave it off; and the resumption of its use 
relieves him, cheers him, and makes him feel good. The same 
is true with the habitual indulger in opium, and, in fact, with the 
consumer of every other poison, when habitually used. This is 
especially true, as we all know, and have seen, with the drinkers 
of that fearfully destructive and deadly poison, alcohol, in what- 
ever form it may be taken. Therefore, as a rule, and according to 
Swedenborg's teaching, we cannot expect men who habitually 
indulge in the evil habit of using intoxicating wine and whisky, 
however "judiciously" they may select their liquors, to see that 
it is wrong to use them. It will be seen that it would be asking 
too much of poor human nature to expect them to see the fearful 
nature of this evil, as those who are free from such habits clearly 
see it. Nor need the teetotaller be discouraged even though 
the leading spirits of the Academy do not join our ranks, although 
we have hope even for them still, and charity, too. But for the 
young, who have not confirmed themselves in favor of drinking 
intoxicating drinks, and who are free from the evil of drinking, 
we may labor earnestly, faithfully, and hopefully, and the Lord 
will assuredly bless our efforts. If men, with the clear light of 
the New Jerusalem Church shining into their understandings, 
continue to drink intoxicating drinks, if these escape drunkenness 
it will be as by the " skin of their teeth." We know very well that 
they cannot fail to be singed by this " Kquid fire," which we have 
seen has its origin from hell. May the Lord protect our brethren 
of the Academy ; but we think He will require a little of their help 
— <:ooperation — before He can do this, without interfering with 
their freedom, and that He never does. 

Now, gentlemen of the Academy, you may as well give 
up your attempt to justify the use of fermented wines, pro- 
duced by the action of leaven on the pure juice of the grape, 



156 COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG AND 

and of whisky. It is impossible for you to sustain your views 
by any legitimate argument, for the truth is not on your side. 
We have seen into what contradictions and absurdities you 
rush the moment you make the attempt. The Word of the 
Lord, sustained and illustrated by the testimony of a large num- 
ber of ancient writers, who wrote during the prophetical and 
apostolic ages, shows conclusively that there were two kinds of 
wine, one good and the other bad, in regular use. 

President Nott says : "That the wine declared by the master of 
the feast to be * good wine,* was good wine — in the sense that 
Pliny, Columella, or Theophrastus would have used the term 
' good,' when applied to wine ; good, because nutritious and un- 
intoxicating ; and of which the guests even at such an hour 
might drink freely and without apprehension, because it was 
wine which, though it would refresh and cheer, it would not 
intoxicate.'* 

" Is it reasonable," says a recent writer, " that the inspired 
penman employs the same kind of wine both as a symbol of 
wrath and mercy? Is there anything else of which this is true? 
'Bread' is used as a symbol of mercy, and so is 'milk* and 'oil.* 
Are they ever employed as symbols of wrath? Never. Neither 
is the unfermented fruit of the vine used as a symbol of wrath. 
It is the changedy innutritious, alcoholic, dangerous wine that is 
an appropriate symbol of divine wrath. This view alone renders 
the Bible consistent, and in harmony with science and experi- 
ence." 

Dr. Lees says: "That somebody consumed these innocent, 
vinous preparations is certain. Is it probable that the prophets 
and saints were the sole persons who refused to do so ? Is it 
likely that while moral pagans preferred good wines, the prophets 
and religious Jews invariably selected the drugged and intoxicat- 
ing? But the associated element of Daniel's abstinence will 
refute the whole principle of the argument.*' 

As New Churchmen what can you, gentlemen of the Academy, 
do toward sustaining your views, with the philosophy of the 
Church, the science of correspondences, and the testimony of 



INTERPRETATIONS BY THE ACADEMY. 157 

. Swedenborg so clearly against you ? We are told by Sweden- 
borg that all substances which hurt and kill men originate, not 
from the Lord, but from hell. Above all other substances, we 
know that fermented and alcoholic drinks do this. 

A curious fact, it is said, has been noted by Professor Van 
Tieghem. The cells in the root of an apple-tree underwent alco- 
holic fermentation when the soil was very damp, but he tells us 
it made even the tree look sick. While the effects of alcohol on 
the body and mind are strictly analogous, as we have seen, to 
the effects of falses from evil on the soul, in every respect, and 
with Swedenborg*s comparison of such wine and strong drinks as 
cause drunkenness, not only to falses, but to the worst kind of 
falses — ^to falses from evil — with his express declaration that whisky 
was so pernicious a drink, and that the immoderate use of spiritous 
liquors would be the downfall of the Swedish people, and 
with the testimony of the ablest medical writers of all ages against 
you, how can you expect to sustain your views? The great 
trouble with you is that you are not masters of this subject. It 
is perfectly clear that, holding on to the drinking usages, cus- 
toms, and traditions of the fallen state of the first Christian 
Church, you had not carefully examined this subject in the 
light of this new day, before attempting to stay the progress 
of the most needed and the greatest reform movement of the age. 
But truth is mighty and will prevail, and you will have to with- 
draw from your dogmatic assumptions upon this subject or you 
will cease to have a following. The Church of the New Jerusa- 
lem is not to be a whisky-drinking, wine-bibbing, and beer- 
guzzling Church. Whisky, fermented wine, and beer perform no 
use in the healthy human body which cannot be much better per- 
formed by legitimate food and drink ; and all true philosophy 
teaches us that use, and not our perverted appetites, should 
govern our eating and drinking that we may have a healthy mind 
in a healthy body. The Lord has so ordered that the man who 
lives on the plainest and most healthy food actually enjoys the most 
in eating and drinking ; for stimulating and poisonous articles soon 
blunt the taste for healthy food, and do not themselves satisfy. 



iSS COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG. 

We will simply intimate to you, gentlemen of the Academy, that 
there is a slight difference between the excitement and delight 
which follow the use of healthy articles of food and drink, and 
the excitement and delight which follow the use of intoxicating 
drinks, and that difference is to the body and mind what the 
difference between heaven and hell is to the soul. The delights 
which flow from the use of the former are natural and orderly, 
and correspond to heavenly delights; whereas, we know very 
well, by every day's observation, that the delights which flow 
from the latter are unnatural and disorderly, and correspond to 
infernal delights. 

"As to whisky," said the late Rev. Dr. Thomas Guthrie, of 
Edinburgh, " whisky is good in its own place. There is nothing 
like whisky in this world for preserving a man when he is dead. 
But it is one of the worst things in this world for preserving a 
man when he is living. If you want to keep a dead man, put 
him into whisky. If you want to kill a living man, put the whisky 
into him." 



DUTY TO THE RECLAIMED. 

fVine : £c€Ustastical. — Dr. Kerr, of England, in a recent lechire, said he 
stood on sure ground, for he was on his own domain of medicine. As a 
physician of some experience in the treatment of habitual drunkenness, he 
knew that it was not safe for the dipsomaniac to taste intoxicating drink in 
any circumstances, while in a state of consciousness; and, therefore, he (the 
lecturer), Churchman though he was, even when a drinker himself, never 
allowed a reformed drunkard under his care to go near a communion table 
where intoxicating drink was presented. He was supported in this line of 
treatment by Dr. A. Fergus, of the General Medical Council, and recently 
President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, by Surgeon-General 
Francis, and by other experts in the higher ranks of the medical profession. 
A typical instance of the relapse of a reformed inebriate through fermented 
wine at the Sacrement was adduced, the authority for the facts being at the 
disposal of the Archbishop of Canterbury. 

The lecturer also said he would be disloyal to truth if he did not honestly 
testify to the serious risk of communion in an intoxicant to the reformed ine- 
briate, and to the yet unfallen subject of the hereditary drink crave. At 
present what was the fact? Some reformed drunkards had been expelled 
from the Church altogether ; some had deprived themselves of the privilege of 
communion, and some, while worshipping regularly at an Established Church, 
communicated at some Nonconformist place of worship where unfermented 
wine was used. He implored the clergy, as a mere matter of justice and of 
right, to render the most sacred rite of their venerable Church safe for the 
weakest of the victims snatched from the fatal embrace of drink. 



CHAPTER XI. 

A NEW VIEW. 

The writer has just received the following communication on 
the wine question, from a highly esteemed correspondent, and 
cheerfully places it before his readers : 

"Leaven corresponds to and represents the false of evil. 
Spiritual leaven did not exist in the Most Ancient Church, but 
was introduced when that Church fell into evils of life, and 
framed doctrines by which it could justify its bad conduct. 

"This leaveh has 'been transmitted from parents to children 
through a long series,* until the disposition to love the * false of 
evil ' has become the ruling power of man's nature. 

"The Lord, in order to provide against the total destruction of 
the human race, through leaven, separated the will from the 
understanding, and put into the understanding a new will, which 
is called 'the will of truth.' 

"Into this new will may be introduced divine doctrine and 
divine life, which, when introduced, form a heavenly city in an 
enemy's country. This city is life introduced into man, and 
leaven is death from hell. The enemies are represented by 
leaven, the ferment from which is the beginning of a deadly 
strife. It is a struggle between life and death. The Lord sus- 
tains and defends the life. For this kind of temptation is not 
admitted into man until 'truths in his understanding are gathered 
into bundles,' and arranged into order for defence. Then come 
the struggle and the victory. But victory does not restore man 
to the condition of the men of the Most Ancient Church. This is 
seen in the fact that the heavens formed from the Most Ancient 
Church are the inmost heaven ; and that the heavens formed 
since are more and more external and less and less pure. There- 

(169) ^ 



l6o A NEW VIEW. 

fore, it cannot be said that one who has so far fallen from God as 
to love the false of evil better than the truth of good, can be 
restored by any process, so as to become as pure and perfect 
as one who has never fallen. 

"So of the grape ; as long as its skin is whole, it cannot fer- 
ment. Nor can grape juice ferment until the virus — leaven — is 
introduced into it. From that moment the work of contamina- 
tion begins ; the juice before was pure and perfect, but it is now 
impure and imperfect. 

**The fermenting process is a method of saving what can be saved 
after a poisonous substance has been introduced into a pure sub- 
stance. 

"The same is true of the salvation of man by combats. And 
although he may be saved 'through great tribulation,* still he is a 
dwarf in purity, compared with what he would have been had he 
never fallen from the divine image and likeness. 

" But it does not follow that divine truth, in his mind, after 
having been purified from the false of evil, is more pure and 
perfect than it was before that false principle was mixed with it; 

"It is hard to comprehend a state of mind which can attribute 
to the Lord inability or want of disposition to create pure things ; 
and it is still harder to see how pure products from the Divine 
Hand, such as the grape, wheat, corn, etc., should be more pure 
after the introduction of a filthy substance into it." 

, Now, from the above presentation of this subject, it would ap- 
pear that fermented wine is the quality of wine to be used at this 
day in the present state of man, even in the Holy Supper, and if 
the above writer's premises were all sound, this would be true. 
But if he had examined this subject a little more carefully, he 
would have found unanswerable objections to some of his views, 
as applied to natural wine. 

First : He admits very correctly that the grape, and the juice 
oi the grape, are pure until ferment enters to pollute these 
organized products of the vine ; in other words, he admits that, 
the grape has never fallen ; in this respect the juice of the grape 



A NEW VIEW. I6l 

differs radically from the present condition of man, and holds a 
relation to man before the fall. 

Second : Being pure, like the man of the Most Ancient Church, 
and never like man having been endowed with rationality and 
freedom, there has been no change in the grape corresponding 
to the separation of the will from the understanding in man; 
consequently, the Lord has made no provision for its restoration 
or regeneration when it becomes polluted by natural leaven, 
which corresponds to spiritual leaven ; therefore it can no more 
be restored by leaven, than the man of the Most Ancient Church 
could have been by spiritual leaven, after he had commenced 
falling from his original purity, and before the separation of the 
will from the understanding. Before the separation of the will 
from the understanding, mankind, after they had commenced 
falling, could only be prevented from descending to greater 
depths of evil by punishments and external restraints ; and it is 
only by corresponding natural measures that wine, after ferment- 
ation has commenced, can be saved from total decay or destruc- 
tion, namely, by sulphurization, boiling, bottling, etc. 

Third : It will be seen, then, that it is utterly impossible to 
harmonize the two processes, and to show that natural leavenings 
correspond to spiritual leavenings. When ferment has entered the 
wine, and commenced its destructive work, the wine can no more 
be restored to its original purity by fermentation, as we have 
just intimated, than the man of the Most Ancient Church, after 
he had commenced falling, could have been restored by tempta- 
tions and spiritual combats against falses. 

Fourth : We know that during fermentation, that which corres- 
ponds to good and truth does not overcome the leaven, and cast 
it down and to the sides ; but that the leaven overcomes, de- 
stroys, casts down and up organic substances which correspond to 
spiritual good and truth ; and changes the sweet, which corres- 
ponds to spiritual delights, into alcohol, which gives rise to infer- 
nal delights ; as we so well know by its effects on man when he 
drinks it ; consequently, we know, both from its origin and effects, 
that it corresponds to infernal delights. 



i6« A NEW VIEW. 

Fifth : Now we are taught by our doctrines that in the regener- 
ation of man at this day, exactly the opposite takes place, namely, 
truth and good overcome the false and evil. So it will be seen 
that while the spiritual combats during regeneration may be com- 
pared to natural fermentation, and the clearness and spiritual 
purity after regeneration, may be compared to the clearness 
and purity of liquids after fermentation, in the very nature of the 
case it is impossible that there should be any real correspondence, 
either between the natural and spiritual processes imder consid- 
eration, or the results which flow therefrom. 

But, says the above correspondent, in a subsequent communi- 
cation, in reply to the strictures on his first : "The correspond- 
ence of sweet — spiritual delight — ^and the correspondence of 
alcohol — infernal delight — is superb. Still, I think, in the end, that 
you will be obliged to acknowledge the fact that there is some 
good use in fermented wine (this wine contains only from five to 
ten per centum of alcohol) and in vinegar. In this you may 
say that wine that has been fermented may be adapted to a fallen 
Church, composed of fallen men." 

Exactly so. This is precisely what the writer claimed in his 
tract, and what is reiterated in an extract from the same in this 
work. When men engrossed in the love of spiritual dominion, 
and in the love of self, money, and sensual gratifications, searched 
the Word of the Lord, and therefrom framed doctrines which 
were in harmony with their perverted affections, such false 
doctrines were not falses from ignorance, but they were falses from 
evil ; and all of the delights of such men flowed from their evils 
and the falses therefrom. It was therefore utterly impossible that 
plain, unfermented wine, which simply gratified the orderly wants 
of the body, giving true delight, health, and strengdi thereto, 
should satisfy men thus perverted. That which corresponds to 
good and truth must be destroyed, and the sugar which corres- 
ponds to spiritual delights must be perverted into alcohol, by 
leaven and human manipulation, before the wine could corres- 
pond to their spiritual state ; and then it becomes strictiy appro- 
priate. 



' VINEGAR.. K53 

- • But iti thie doctrines for the Church of the New Jerusalem, the 
Lord again calls on all men to repent, and to put away their 
false doctrines from their understandings, and evils from their 
lives, by a constant effort to keep the divine commandments, 
not in their own strength, but in the strength which the Lord 
ever gives to those who ask of Him in their daily lives— 
not in words only, but also in deeds. What place has fermented 
wine, having its origin from hell, and corresponding clearly to 
falses from evils as we have seen, in the true Church of the 
Lord ? It being the natural emblem of the false, which is infer- 
nal ; can men of this New Age, who are striving to live the life of 
the Church, deliberately, and from choice, use such a perverted 
fluid as a beverage, and not thereby be injured, both physically 
and spiritually ? 

The writer would remind the above correspondent that from 
iive to ten per centum of alcohol in wine has been sufficient 
to cause drunkenness in all ages, and among all races of men 
who have used fermented wine ; as history clearly teaches, and 
present observation abundantly demonstrates. 

VINEGAR, 

Vinegar, like alcohol, is a product resulting from the decom- 
position of an organized substance — sugar. In a concentrated 
form it is a corrosive poison ; but when diluted, as it ordinarily is 
when used, and only moderately taken ; then, compared with 
fermented wine and beer, it is comparatively harmless ; but if 
used as freely as the latter fluids are, while it would never cause 
drunkenness, it would, unquestionably, be very injurious to the 
health of the body ; but we shall see from its correspondence, 
that it cannot be as injiuious to man, spiritually, as fermented 
wine or beer. 

"Vinegar signifies truth mixed with falses." (A. E. s^6,) 
"Giving the Lord vinegar mixed with gall (Matt, xxvii. 34) 
signifies the quality of divine truth from the Word, such as was 
with the Jewish nation, namely, that it was commixed with the 
false of evil, and thereby altogether falsified and adulterated, 



1 64 VINEGAR. 

wherefore He would not drink it." (A. E. 519.) " Gall signifies 
the same as wormwood, or infernal falsity." (A. E. 376.) So 
it will be seen that vinegar alone, simply diluted with water [sig- 
nifying truth], signifies truths mixed with falses. 

Diluted vinegar, like alcohol, will preserve animal and vegetable 
substances, although not so perfectly ; but it is used, as is well 
known, for this purpose. 

The appetite for acids is unquestionably a natural appetite ; and 
when suitable acids are used temperately they supply a want, and 
are usefiil ; but vinegar, being the product of decomposition, as 
we would expect, very imperfectly, if at all. Supplies this want. 
It will not, like lemon or lime juice, prevent the scurvy where 
persons are for lon;^ periods deprived of vegetable food and 
fresh meats, as on board ships, and during the long winters of a 
northern clime. 

Wherever it is possible, it is certain that the juice of acid fruits, 
such as lemons, limes, and currants, should be substituted for 
: vinegar. One who has never tried it cannot realize the superi- 
ority of lemon juice over vinegar, when used on salads, greens, 
meats and fish. We all know how superior it is, in preparing 
acid drinks, to vinegar. Of course, we cannot preserve vegetable 
and animal substances with such living or organized acids, as we 
can with vinegar ; but if, after having preserved them in vinegar, 
we were to soak them in water, so as to remove the vinegar, and 
then apply lemon juice as we use them, it would be an improve- 
ment. 

The use of vinegar should undoubtedly be discouraged, by re- 
commending the use of vegetable acids in its stead, rather than 
encouraged ; but when the use of vinegar is compared with the 
use of fermented wine, beer, or cider, it is comparatively harm- 
less — or, as much so as the reception of truth mixed with falses 
into the memory and understanding is, when compared with falses 
which are received and cherished by an evil love or perverted 
affection — consequently, vinegar rarely develops an unnatural ap- 
petite which cannot be satisfied with wholesome vegetable acids. 



CHAPTER XII. 

COMMUNION WINE AND ITS PREPARAHON AND PRESERVATION. 

When the wine question is viewed in the light of the New 
Jerasalem Church, and carefully examined, there would seem to 
be no question as to the Icind of wine which should be used at 
the Holy Supper. 

The vine has a good signification, for it signifies " good and 
truth spiritual." (A. E. 403.) Vine or vineyard signifies the 
Church, where the Word is, by which the Lord is known, conse- 
quently, the Christian Church. (A. R. 650). Grapes have a 
good signification, for they signify the goods of charity, which 
are the goods of life. (A. E. 375.) Grapes and clusters 
signify works of charity, because they are the fruits of the vine 
and the vineyard, and by fruits in the Word are signified good 
works. (A. R. 649.) The blood of the grape, or the juice 
which flows, when the skin is punctured or burst, with little or no 
pressure but the weight of the cluster, and which is the sweetest 
portion of the grape, has the highest signification. " The blood 
of the grape signifies spiritual-celestial good, which is the name 
given to the divine in heaven proceeding from the Lord ; wine 
is called the blood of grapes, since each signifies holy truth pro- 
ceeding from the Lord ; wine, however, is predicated of the 
spiritual, and blood of the celestial; and this being the case 
wine was enjoined in the Holy Supper." (A. C. 5 117.) "By 
the blood of the grape is also signified truth from spiritual good, 
the same as by wine in Deut. xxxii. 14." (A. E. 918.) 

That unfermented wine, which is produced by crushing and 
pressing the grapes, also has a good signification is beyond 
question. " * Thus saith Jehovah, As the new wine is found in 
the duster ; and He saith, spoil it not, because a blessing is in 
it ' (Isaiah Ixv. 8) : the new wine in the cluster denotes truth 

(166) • —- * 



1 66 COMMUNION WINE. 

from good in the natural principle." (A. C. 5 117.) This new 
wine found in the cluster is not fermented wine, for alcohol is 
not found in a cluster of grapes. " Whereas all truth is from 
good, as all wine is from grapes, therefore by wine in the Word 
is signified tnith from good." (A. E. 918.) If all wine is from 
grapes, as Swedenborg has assured us, and the grapes do not con- 
tain any alcohol, how can we claim that fermented wine which is 
full of alcohol is the fruit of the vine, or that it has a good significa- 
tion ; especially \\4ien we know, as we do, that the alcohol is not 
even the product of the vine, but that it is produced by the 
actual destruction of the gluten and sugar, both good and useful 
ingredients of the wine, by ferment or leaven, which signifies 
"the false of evil," and "the evil and the false," which, Sweden- 
borg tells us, " should not be mixed with things good and true ?" 
And yet in tlie case of fermented wine, by the ingenuity of man 
in providing vessels, keeping it at a proper temperature, and with 
the necessary exposure to the air and no more, this substance — 
leaven — has been mixed with the new wine, and has disorganized 
and destroyed the vegetable compounds which the Lord had so. 
carefully organized in the grape for the sustenance of man, until, 
in the end, there is scarcely a trace of some of the most 
important and useful of the natural ingredients of the wine 
left; and until by the destructive action of the leaven there 
has been substituted for the gluten, sugar, and other organic 
ingredients of the wine, the most to be dreaded, and which has 
proved to the human race the most deadly poison ever pro- 
duced by man, it having destroyed more human beings than all 
otlier poisons put together. Swedenborg tells us, as we have 
already quoted in a previous chapter, that all substances which 
hurt and kill men have their origin from hell. Thus, then, there 
can be no question as to the origin of the alcohol in fermented 
wine. In fact, as we have elsewhere shown, Swedenborg in his 
work, "Apocalypse Explained" (No. 1035), compares "falsesfrom 
evil," which we know are from hell, to such wine as will induce 
drunkenness, and we know that the wine which will induce this 
fearful state, in which reason and self-control are overthrown, is 



COMMUNION WINE. 167 

never unfermented wine, but that it is always fermented wine, 
and history shows that it has induced drunkenness in all ages of 
the world, and for countless ages before distilled liquors were 
known. Is there — can there be — any excuse for tlie use of an 
intoxicating wine as communion wine in the sacrament of the 
Holy Supper, gentle reader? But do not be over hasty to 
condemn all wine. Please bear in mind that the vine, the 
grape, the blood of the grape, all have a good signification, 
unquestionably good, when unpolluted by fermentation. The 
same is true of must, for Swedenborg tells us that " must signifies 
the same as wine, namely, truth derived from the good of charity 
and love." (A. E. 695.) 

Webster defines must [Latin, mustunr\ as " wine pressed from 
the grape, but not fermented^ Worcester defines it, **the sweet 
or unfermented juice of the grape : new wine." So that both 
authorities say that the unfermented juice of the grape is wine. 
Must has the same signification, because it is new wine. It is 
only when leaven or ferment commences its fearful work of dis- 
organization, destruction, and pollution, in the new wine or must, 
that it ever has a bad signification ; but after it has been so mixed 
with leaven and polluted by it, it is perfectly clear that it never 
has a good signification, for the wine then becomes a perverted and 
poisonous fluid as we should naturally expect. Swedenborg says : 
" Leaven signifies the evil and the false, whereby things celestial 
and spiritual are rendered impure and profane." (A. C. 2342.) 

And yet it is wine, the noble fruit of the vine, corresponding 
to things spiritual and celestial, which has been rendered by the 
action of leaven impure, and the natural symbol of spiritual 
impurity and profanity, which is to-day, with only here and there 
an exception, being used as communion wine in the organized 
sbcieties of the New Jerusalem Church in this country, and of 
which men and women, who clearly see the truth, are compelled 
to partake or stand aloof from the most holy ordinance- Of this 
wine so generally used, one of the editors of the New Jerusalem 
Magazine says : " If one has acquired a depraved taste for it, it 
may be well for him to deprive himself of it altogether, not 



168 COMMUNION WINE. 

excepting its use at the Holy Supper." Do men acquire a de- 
praved taste for healthy articles — as for bread and fruit ? 

Is it not sad that through the perversion of an ordinance, a 
teacher in the New Church should feel it to be his duty to 
suggest to some who desire to partake of the Holy Supper, the 
expediency of remaining away from the heavenly feast, of which 
the Lord commanded all to partake ? And this, not because of 
imfitness in themselves, but lest the Supper may lead them into 
temptation ; and sadder still, that he should not see from the 
teaching of the Word, and from the philosophy of the New 
Church, and the science of correspondences, as contained in the 
Writings of Swedenborg, that the Lord never placed this tempta- 
tion before any ; and that it is impossible that He could do so in 
any ordinance which He instituted for the benefit of His people, 
and the use of which He makes obligatory upon them ? As the 
Holy Supper came to us from the Lord, there was nothing about 
it to incite or minister to a depraved taste. 

That men of the first Christian Church, with simply the 
knowledge of the literal sense of the Sacred Scriptures, should 
advocate and use fermented wine is not surprising, but that a 
New Churchman, with the knowledge which he can readily 
obtain from the Writings of Swedenborg of the spiritual sense of 
the Sacred Scriptures, and of causes, and the correspondence which 
exist between all natural and spiritual things, habits, and effects, 
and the express teaching of Swedenborg upon this subject, to 
which we have referred in this work, can for a moment attempt to 
justify the use of fermented wine as communion wine, is beyond 
the comprehension of the writer, upon any other supposition 
than that he has not carefully examined this subject; and to 
bring this question fairly before his brethren, and to ask their 
most serious consideration of it, is the object of this chapter. 

Says the Rev. Dr. Nott : " Can the same thing in the same 
state be good and bad ; a symbol of wrath, and a symbol of mercy ; 
a thing to be sought after, and a thing to be avoided? Certainly 
not. And is^ the Bible, then, inconsistent Avith itself? No, 
certainly." -'■ -^^^--- 



COMMUNION WINE. 169 

"Here, then," says Dr. Rich, "is the rational and righteous 
basis for the discriminating statutes of God. The beverage that 
was characterized by power to produce a sensible stimulation, 
a nervous excitement, was forbidden ; the beverage that satisfied 
a natural appetite, and afforded strength without stimulation was 
commended." 

Dr. Rich's special conclusion is thus stated: "There is no 
threatening, or prohibition, or visitation of judgment, as I can 
remember, based on the discrimination between an excessive and 
a Hmited or temperate use (as it is called) of intoxicants." 

Does not the poor, reformed inebriate who is struggling to shun 
this evil, need the aid to be derived from partaking of the wine 
at the Holy Supper as much as any one ? We ask the thought- 
ful reader, if the wine of which it is thus dangerous to even take 
a single swallow, can by any possibility be the same kind of wine 
of which our Lord and Master said " drink ye all cf it " ? 

"I think," says the Rev. Joseph Cook, "It is beyond dispute 
among the scholars of the first rank that at the Passover the wine 
used was non-intoxicating, and that our Lord instituted the Holy 
Supper with such wine." {Encyc. Brit, 8th ed., art. "Pass- 
over".) 

In his former tract, the writer purposely avoided a full con- 
sideration of this subject, for he felt that the impropriety of using 
an intoxicating wine in the most Holy Supper was so manifest 
that it was unnecessary to say more than to barely allude to 
the subject, and to call the attention of New Churchmen to it. 
But some rather rough experience, and further consideration of 
the subject has satisfied him that he was mistaken as to the 
necessity and too hopeful in his expectations \ and to-day he 
feels fully satisfied that nothing is more necessary or desirable for 
the welfare of the Church, than that this subject should be dis- 
cussed fully and fairly. So long as intoxicating wine is used for 
sacramental purposes, drunkenness will never cease in the Church, 
for many of its members, and the young people who are looking 
toward the Church, will reason that " if it is suitable for such a 
8 



1 70 CXDMMUNION WINE. 

purpose, it cannot be bad in itself; and it will not liarm me to 
drink a little — 'temperately,' of course." Among those who 
begin to drink this seductive fluid, a goodly number will inevit- 
ably become drunkards ; and many more will richly deserve the 
name, and die from the effects of drinking, whose fall may not 
be so complete and open as to cause them to be generally recog- 
nized as drunkards. All who drink intoxicating drinks, as we 
have seen, will be injured thereby, in mind and body, to a greater 
or less extent ; for they are almost sure to become " moody in 
mind and diseased in body, sooner or later," however "tempe- 
rately" they may use such beverages. 

"When a reformed drunkard," says the Rev. Joseph Cook, 
" sits down in a pew, and finds his neighboring Church member a 
moderate drinker, and his pastor holding up the Bible in one 
hand, and the glass of moderate drinking in the other, the strug- 
gling, converted inebriate has not come into a place of safety. 
The Church is not a fold that is securing him from the wolves ; 
it is not a place where he can repose." 

Willard Parker, M.D., of New York, asks, in his address at the 
American Association for the Cure of Inebriates, "What is alco- 
hol ? The answer is — a poison. It is so regarded by the best 
writers and teachers on toxicology, I refer to Orfila, Christison, 
and the like, who class it with arsenic, corrosive sublimate, and 
prussic acid. Like these poisons, when introduced into the sys- 
tem,- it is capable of destroying life without acting mechanically. 
Introduced into the system, it induces a general disease, as well 
marked as intermittent fever, smallpox, or lead poison." 

In a letter to the Rev. Dr. Patton, he says : "The alcohol is 
the one evil genius, whether in wine, or ale, or whisky, and is 
killing the race of men. Stay the ravages of this one poison, 
alcohol, that king of poisons, the mightiest weapon of the devil, 
and the millennium will soon dawn." 

No higher, nor more respected medical authority, in this 
country can be given than Dr. Willard Parker, and his language, 
it will be seen, as to the efifects of drinking intoxicating drinks on 
the American people, is almost precisely the same as that used 



COMMUNION WINE. 171 

more than, a century ago by Swedenborg, as to the effects on 
the Swedish people of using such drinks. In reply to our 
selections from the writings of Dr. Parker, Dr. Richardson, the 
section on medicine in the Interiiational Medical Congress held 
in Philadelphia in 1876, and of Emanuel Swedenborg, as to the 
effect of alcoholic drinks on men, the *' Academy of the New 
Ghurch " in its Words for the New Church, says : 

' "Of one thing we feel assured, that the class of selections from which 
Dr. Ellis, has seen lit to choose cannot be genuind, because they dispute 
revealed truth." 

Swedenborg, then, in the estimation of our brethren of the 
Academy, disputed revealed truth when he declared that it would 
be more desirable for his country's welfare and morality, that the 
consumption of whisky should be done away with altogether, 
"than all the income which could be realized from so pernicious 
a drink." The writer does not think the Academy manifests 
either much modesty or wisdom when it attempts, as it does, 
to offset the testimony of the highest medical authorities in the 
world, and of Emanuel Swedenborg, by the views of compara- 
tively obscure writers in our periodicals. 

THE WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN THE ORIGINAL 
INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 

" The great Bible student of this and all ages," says the Rev. Dr. 
G. W. Samson, "was Jerome [born a. d. 332]. As a representa- 
tive of the early Church at Rome, yet spending half his life in the 
land of Jesus and of the first Apostles, his translation of the Greek 
New Testament into Latin became the foundation of the Latin 
Vulgate ; while his voluminous commentaries and epistles are an 
invaluable treasure in every department of Biblical science. On 
Hoseaii. 9, he defines tirosh as 'the fruit of the vintage'; his 
comment corresponding with his translation already noted. In 
commenting on Amos ix. 14, he compares the 'blood of Christ' 
to the 'red must' flowing into the wine-vat. Upon Matt. ix. 17, 
he says that new skins \uires\ must be used for wine that is to 
be preserved as must, because the remains of former ferment 



1 73 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

attaches to the old skins ; and he regards this to be the essential 
point in Christ's comparison; that the soul [^anima'] in which 
His truth will be safely deposited must be entirely renovated and 
freed from all remains of former corruption, so as to be * polluted 
with no contagion of former vice.' In comrmenting (Matt. xxvi. 
26-29 ) on Christ's choice of language : ^ I will not drink hence- 
forth of this /rutt of the vine, he takes for granted, as under- 
stood by all, that must is referred to ; and he cites as illustrative 
of the wine at the Supper, the fresh grape juice of Gen. xl. 1 1^ 
and the 'noble vine' of Jer. ii. 21, as indicating the character of 
the vine, as well as of ks product, which is refSerred to in Christ's 
words, *I am the vine.* On Gal. v. 16-21, among the 'lusts of 
the flesh,' Jerome mentions wine-drinking, and urges the duty of 
abstinence from wines. He says : * In wine is excess; as taught 
in Eph. V. 18, youth should flee wine as they would poison.' 
Alluding to the plea that Christ used wine at the Supper, and 
that St. Paul recommended the use of wine to Tinaothy, Jerome 
says : * Elsewhere, we were made acquainted with both the wine 
to be consecrated into the blood of Christ and the wine wdered 
to Timothy that he should drink it.' " 

Rev. Dr. Samson, in a recent work, in which he replies to the 
writers who have criticised his former work already noticed, 
on the " Divine Law of Wines," makes the following statement : 

"The wine made by Christ at the wedding has this succession 
of testimonials in confirmation : first, the fact that conforming 
Jews, of whom Jesus through His life was one, from time imme- 
morial have used unfermented wine at weddings ; second, the 
best, most costly and always first-used wine, in ancient and 
modern banquets, has been the lightest, and among the Romans 
this was unfermented; third, Cyril, bishop of the Church in 
Jerusalem about a. d. 380, expressly declares this, while Geikie, 
in his now popular "Life of Christ," returns to the early Christian 
view of the nature of the miracle. As to the charge against 
Christ that he was a 'wine-bibber,' all Christians regard it as 
much a calumny as that He was a 'glutton* and a 'fiiend* of 
abandoned women. That the * fruit of the vine ' used at the 



* THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. X^S 

Supper was unfermented, is confirmed by these testimonies : 
first, the natural meaning of the terms * fruit of the vine ' : second, 
the immemorial custom of conscientious Jews at thf ir Passover, 
which * cup * was the same used by Christ at tlie institution of the 
SuppCT; third, the direct statement of Clement, a.d. 200, and of 
Jerome, a.d. 400. That the gleukos was unintoxicating Cyril 
declared, a.d. 380, while writers of the views of Horace Bum- 
stead now admit this ; and that gleukos was included under oinos 
lexicographers of every age and land agree. As to the view of 
Paul's advice to Timothy, the accordant statements of Eusebius, 
A.D. 320, of Athanasius, a.d. 325, of C>Til, a. d. 380, and of 
Jerome, a.d. 400, that Paul commended abstinence in Timothy 
( I Tim. V. 23), as he had before enjoined it on the Church of 
which he was pastor (Eph. v. 18), is in accordance with all 
ancient and modem legislation as to wines. As to the quality Of 
the wines commended by Paul, Roman writers and their French 
annotators show that must is their basis, if not their only ingre- 
dient ; for it is not the alcohol, but the nourishing ingredients 
of wines, that constitute their utility in chronic indigestion ; 
while strong alcoholic wines were commended by the Greek and 
Roman physicians for acute and painful diseases, such as strangu- 
ary and dysentery.'* 

^'All," says the Rev. A. S. Wells, "that relates to this subject 
(viz., the institution of the Lord's Supper), in the New Testament, 
may be found in Matt. xxvi. 17-29 ; Mark xiv. 12-26 ; Luke xxii. 
7-20, and I Cor. xi. 23-29." 

"Take your Bible and carefully read and consider these words. 
They contain the historical account and the express • directions 
and commands of Jesus Christ on this subject, and all that He or 
His Apostles have said or written upon it, except some allusions 
to this ordinance which are found in i Cor. v. (>-%, and x. 16-21. 
This matter is contained within a small compass, and can, there- 
fore, be easily comprehended. From these passages we see ; 
First : That the Lord's supper was appointed at the dose of the 
Passover feast, and before our Saviour and His disciples had 
arisen firom the table. Matthew says ; ^And as they were eating 



174 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

(/. e.y the Passover), He took the cup and gave thanks, and gave 
it to them, saying. Drink ye all of itJ Second : Notice also, 
that ourS^iour used the same elements of bread and wine which 
they had used in the feast of the Passover. No new cup was 
brought in at the time He instituted the memorial of His death. 
He took the Passover cup, and it was of the wine which it con- 
tained that He expressly commanded His disciples; saying, 
' Drink ye all of it: 

" Now we have abundant evidence that the wine of the Passover 
was unfermented. 

" First :• This is seen in the name which our Saviour gave to the 
contents of the Passover cup. Neither He nor His Apostles, in 
speaking of this element in the sacramental emblems, call it wine 
at all. Our Saviour foresaw how, in after ages, the term wine 
would generally be understood to mean that which was fermented 
and intoxicating, and, therefore, wholly inappropriate as a symbol 
of His precious blood ; and to guard the Church against this 
danger He employs a term which, in all ages and languages, 
could not be misunderstood, and He calls that wine He would 
have us use in this ordinance ' the fruit of the vine.* This 
term truly describes the new, siveet, unfermented wine yf\i\c\i God 
Himself creates in a cluster, and which He pronounces a bless- 
ing (Isa. Ixv. 8), like the oil and the bread with which it is asso- 
ciated as an article of diet. This was, indeed, a good creature 
of God, and to be received with thanksgiving. But when God*s 
wine has been, by man's invention, subjected to a chemical pro- 
cess, and becomes fermented, it is no longer the fruit of the vine, 
but another substance altogether: it has been changed in its 
essential principles, and is now a poisonous compound of alcohol 
and carbonic acid. Its sugar and gluten which were in the fruit 
of the vine, both of which are nutritious and help to build up and 
repair the waste of our bodies, are now, by fermentation, con- 
verted into alcoholic poison and other substances, all of which 
are almost, if not utterly, destitute of any nourishing qualities 
whatever. 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 175 

'•Again : we know that the Passover wine was the new, sweet, 
and unfermented wine, not only by the name our Saviour gave it 
as the fruit of the vine, but 

"Second : By the express law of the Passover, excluding all 
leaven from the elements used at that feast. Read carefully the 
following passages, and you will see the proof is full and 
unanswerable ; Ex. xii. 15-20 ; xiii. 6-7 ; xxxiv. 25 ; Lev. ii. 11 ; 
X. 12, and Amos iv. 5. Here you will notice that there is 
an uttc prohibition of leaven and of all that has been leavened or 
fermented, not only from the Passover feast, but from everything 
offered in sacrifice to God. This included fermented wine as 
well as the fermented bread. If it is said that wine is not men- 
tioned in these passages, we reply, it was included in the prohibi- 
tion of the unleavened bread; else there is no divine warrant 
for its use at all in the Passover ; but as our Saviour used it. His 
example settles its divine appointment. 

"In his commentary on John ii. 10, the Rev. Albert Barnes 
says : 'The wine of Judea was the pure juice of the grape, without 
any mixture of alcohol, and commonly weak and harmless. It 
was the common drink of the people, and did not tend to pro- 
duce intoxication.' " 

The Rev. Dr. Duffield says : ''For the Jews, in observing the 
Passover — ^which feast he was celebrating when he instituted the 
sacrament of His Supper — ^were prohibited from the use of any- 
thing whatever, whether food or drink, that was fermented (Ex. 
xii. 15) ; and to this day they rigidly observe the original regula- 
tion." — Bible Rule of Temperance (p. 181.) 

The Rev. Dr. C. H. Fowler, says: "The sacrament of the 
Lord's Supper is rescued by the simple fact that this was the 
feast of the Passover which Jesus set apart as His memorial, and 
that the Jews ate nothing that had yeast or ferment in it at this 
feast. They were forbidden to offer anything that had leaven or 
yeast in it to the Lord. There is no indication that Jesus sent 
out and procured intoxicating wine, when He had a supply, of 
unfermented wine. Jesus even called it ' the fruit of the vine, 
not the fruit of decomposition and fermentation. 



176 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

"God promised that His Holy One should not see corruption. 
God said to the sacrificing Jews : *Thou shalt not offer the blood 
of my sacrifice with leaven.' Jesus gave the wine as His blood 
of the new Testament. It is not reasonable that He sought out 
a forbidden element for the purpose of exposing His sacrament 
to perpetual criticism. It is enough that Jesus called it * the 
fruit of the vine.'" 

Dr. S. M. Isaacs, an eminent Jewish rabbi of this city, says : 
"In the Holy Land they do not commonly use fermented wines. 
The best wines are preserved sweet and unfermented." In 
reference to their customs, at their religious festivals, he repeat- 
edly and emphatically says : "The Jews do not, in their feast for 
sacred purposes, including the marriage feast, ever use any kind 
of fermented drinks. In their oblations and libations, both 
private and public, they employ the finit of the vine — that is, 
fi*esh grapes — ^unfermented grape juice, and raisins, as the symbol 
of benediction. Fermentation is to them always a symbol of 
corruption, as in nature and science it is itself decay, rottenness." 
— Bibk Wines, 

The Hon. P. J. Joachimsen, whose intelligence "as a judge, 
as well as the eminent culture and charities of his esteemed lady, 
are well known in New York," makes the following reply to a 
letter of inquiry fix)m Dr. Samson : 

No. 336, East 69TH Street, February 15, 1881. 
Reverend and Dear Sir, — In answer to your favor of yesterday's date, 
I repeat that the great majority of conforming Jews in this city use wine 
made from raisins at the Passover feast. Of course the raisins are fresh. 
Such raisin-wine is used in all conforming synagogues for the sanctification 
of Shabbat and holy days; i, e., for Kiddush and also for services at cir- 
cumcisions and weddings. Some, but not many, people use imported wine ' 
— Italian, Hungarian, or German — ^which is certified as " Perach*' or" Kosher 
wine." 

I am, yours most truly, J. P. Joachimsen. 

The Rev. W. M. Thayer, in his work on "Communion Wine," 
says : " The Saviour's language implies that He continued the prac- 
tice of using the unfermented juice of the grape. At the institu- 
tion of the Supper, he did not use the word ' wine * \pnio$'\-^ 



•THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMJWT. 1 77 

the word in general use among the people ; but he employed a 
phrase which is translated ^ fruit of the vine,^ We have His 
language recorded three times (Matt. xxvi. 27-29; Mark xiv. 
23-25 ; Luke xxii. 19, 20), and in each instance it is ^ fruit of the 
vine.^ As if he would distinguish the wine which was used on 
that occasion from that which the people were taught not to 
'look upon,' and which would *bite like a serpent and sting like 
Wi adder M As if he meant that no man should ever point to 
His example on that sacred occasion to defend the use of intoxi- 
cating wine on a secular occasion. It has the appearance of 
a studied, consistent, Christian arrangement to discard the 
'mocker.* If the Saviour used oinos at the Supper, it is singular, 
at least, that he avoided the name by which it was known, and 
called it * fruit of the vine.* 

" We submit, too, that the grape itself, or the newly expressed 
juice, is *the fruit of the vine' in a truer sense than fermented 
wine can be. For all chemists say that fermentation destroys the 
nutritive element of grape juice, while the unfermented juice is 
highly nutritious. The latter is innocent and healthful, while the 
former is * dangerous' and harmful to persons in health. 

" It is objected that Christ said : * Verily I say unto you, I will 
no more drink of the fruit of the vine, until that day I drink it new 
in the kingdom of God' (Mark xiv. 25). And these words are 
supposed to imply the use of alcoholic wine. The remarks of 
Professor Moses Stuart upon this passage furnish a good reply : 

* Is there not a sanction here of drinking ordinary wine ? Far from it. It 
is beyond all reasonable doubt that orthodox Judaism has ever and always 
rejected alcoholic or fermented wine at sacred feasts. Even now, as I have 
abundantly satisfied myself by investigation, the Passover is celebrated with 
wine newly made from raisins, where unfermented wine cannot be had. 
This would seem to explain that difficult passage in Matt. xxvi. 29 : **I will 
not drink of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you 
in my Father's kingdom." ** New'* alludes to the wine then employed on 
that occasion. The meaning seems plainly to be this : ** I shall no more 
celebrate with you a holy communion service on earth; in heaven we shall 
meet again around our Father's table, and there we will keep a feast with 
wine appropriate to the occasion — that is, new wine." Of course, we are to 
understand the language in a spiritual, and not in a literal, sense. But the 



17^ WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES 11^ 

imagery is borrowed from the wine then before them. Scarcely a greater 
mistake can be made than to rest the use of alcoholic wine at the sacra- 
mental table on the example of our Saviour and His disciples.' 

" It is not surprising, therefore," says the Rev. Dr. Samson, 
speaking of the early temperance investigators of the wine ques- 
tion, " that such a flood of light dawned on the earnest and labor- 
ious reformers who penetrated more or less into this history of 
facts. All the translators, Roman and Protestant, Italian, Spanish, 
French, German and English, saw in the tirosh of the Old Testa- 
ment, the Grecian gleukos and the Roman mustum, Castell, 
with the whole range of Syriac and Arabic translations, of the 
Rabbinic Targums and Tulmud, before him, not only rendered 
tirosh must, but he argued that the translation of the Hebrew 
cheleb (Num. xviii. 12) by aparche in the' Greek, was intended 
to present the idea of Herodotus (iii. 24), and of Xenophon 
(Hier. iv. 2), which prevailed alike among the early Ethiopians 
of Central Africa, and of primitive Asiatics ; their offerings were 
FRESH, that they might be untainted with decay. Language could 
not have been constructed more definitely to represent the pro- 
duct of the vine acceptable in religious offerings than that used 
by Moses when he added a prefix to the unfermented grape juice 
offered to the Lord ; requiring that it be 'the fresh of tirosh.^ It 
was natural that this expression, rendered in English by 'best of 
the wine,' should recall to Castell and Cocceius the nature of 'the 
best' wine made by Christ, and, therefore, drunk by Him ; and 
that it should have prevented such men from introducing, from 
the spirit of 'custom,' any perversion of the requirements of 
Christ as to the Supper, imagining that 'inebriating wines' should 
take the place of His own twice repeated description, ' the fruit 
of the vine.' When attained, unfermented wine at the Supper 
will certainly be the first appointed by Christ." — Divine Law as 
to Wines. 

In concluding his essay on "Communion Wine," the Rev. W. 
M. Thayer says : " We ask the reader to compare the evidence 
upon which we rest our view of the Temperance Cause with that 
on which the cause of liberty rests. Is the proof that the 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 179 

Bible denounces American slavery more direct and explicit 
than the proof that it denounces American drinking customs ? 
Does not the Bible support slavery as clearly as it does the use 
of inebriating beverages ? And more, do we not discard certain 
customs and habits as sinful on less evidence than we ask men 
to discard intoxicating wine ? Do we not accept many theolo- 
gical tenets as scriptural, on less evidence than we adduce for 
Total Abstinence Communion Wine ? Let reason and conscience 
answer. Especially let the Church be true. No virtue will rise 
higher in the world than it is in the Church. If there be a place 
of safety on this subject, let the Church occupy it. * Lead us not 
into temptation ' is the prayer ; let God's people live as they 
pray. Tempt no man with the intoxicating cup, at any time, or 
in any place. Let the standard be as high at the Lord's table as 
it is at man's table. A vicious thing in a holy place is out of 
place. The Church is bound to set a pure and safe example on 
temperance as really as on religion. ^Abstain from all appear- 
ance of evil,' binds us not to drink beverages that may entice 
others to ruin. * Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself sug- 
gests that it is not a loving act to set the dangerous example of 
drinking intoxicating liquors to our neighbor, or his children. 
^ Do thyself no harm,' Abstinence is the only sure way to pre- 
vent harm to one's self. * Watch and pray, that ye enter not into 
temptation' There is no more emphatic way of disregarding 
this lesson, than by tampering with the intoxicating cup. So, 
also, the exhortations to ' lay your bodies a living sacrifice on the 
altar of God,' to ^crucify the lusts of the flesh,' and many others, 
are wholly inconsistent with defiling the body by using that which 
inflames the passions (Isa. xxii. 13), excites to violence (Prov. 
xxiii. 29) , and overcomes and demoralizes many who drink it " 
(Isa. xxviii. i ; Prov. xx. i ; Isa. xxviii. 7). 

Professor Stuart says : " I cannot doubt that chamets, in its 
widest sense, was excluded from tlie Jewish Passover, when the ' 
Lord's Supper was first instituted; for I am not able to find 
evidence to make me doubt that the custom among the Jews of 
excluding fermented wine, as well as fermented bread, is older 



i3o WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

than the Christian era. That this custom is very ancient ; that 
it is now almost universal ; and that it has .been so for some time 
whereof the memory of man runneth not to the contrary, I take 
to be facts that cannot fairly be controverted." 

I While the societies of the New Church, with but a very few 
worthy exceptions in this country, are using intoxicating wine, 
which Swedenborg compares to falses from evil, as communion 
wine, and our Associations and Convention have not a word to say 
against its use as a beverage ; and too many of our clergymen are 
justifying such use ; and some of them advocating the drinking of 
whisky even ; how stands the religious world around us upon this 
great practical question of life ? Many of the most celebrated 
scholars of the various Christian Churches, without a knowledge 
of the revelations which we enjoy, seeing the devastation and 
ruin which was being wrought upon their fellow-men, by the 
drinking of intoxicating drinks, and finding that their use was 
justified and encouraged by the use of fermented wine at the 
Holy Supper, have devoted years to a patient examination of 
this subject in the light of the Word of the Lord, ancient history, 
and modem science. 

Rev. Dr. Samson, speaking of the early labors of such men, 
$ays: 

" Among educators, such men as Professor Wayland of Brown 
University, and Professor Tayler Lewis, led the way to a new 
position. Dr. Wayland, eminently conscientious and practical as 
a teacher of Moral Science, when told by Christian gentlemen 
whom he esteemed, that his example in providing wine-sangaree 
at his annual receptions was misleading, and betraying to their 
ruin, young men in fashionable society. Dr. Wayland promptiy 
said ; ' If my wine makes my brother to offend, I will have no 
more of it.' Professor Lewis, scholarly and logical, reversed his 
opinions and practice, when he perceived, as he himself states it, 
that * on the subject of temperance there has been committed 
the same error of interpretation that for so long a time c©nfiised 
the slavery question.* " 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. l8| 

**To these testimonies was soon added that of Professor 
George Bush, who, when first appealed to, quoted Old and New 
Testament declarations to sustain the custom of using wines in 
fashionable society and in Christian rites ; but who, when asked, 
resolved to examine the original Hebrew and Greek Scriptures, 
and then» after examination, confessed the error into which 
neglect of thorough investigation had led him, and declared to 
the advocates of total abstinence : *You have the whole ground ; 
and in time the whole Christian world will be obliged to adopt 
your views.'" 

We have in the preceding pages called the attention of our 
readers to several works written by late writers, with many quota- 
tions, and now we will see what the surrounding Church organi- 
zations are doing in this most worthy cause. 

The General Assembly of the. Presbyterian Church, at its 
annual meeting at Madison, Wis., imamimously adopted the fol- 
lowing declaration : 

"The General Assembly, viewing with grave apprehension the persist- 
ence and spread of the use of intoxicating drinks as among the greatest, if 
not the greatest, evil of our day, as a curse resting upon every nation of 
Christendom, as multiplying their burdens of taxation, pauperism, and 
crime, as undermining their material prosperity, as a powerful hindrance to 
the Gospel at home, and as still more deeply degrading the heathen whom 
we seek to evangelize abroad, would rejoice at the revival in recent years 
of efforts to stay these great evils, and would renew its testimony, begun as 
early as 1 812 (and continued to the present day), *not only against actual 
intemperance, but against all those habits ^nd indulgences which may have 
a tendency to produce it/ " 

The General Conference of the Methodist-Episcopal Church, 
held in Cincinnati in May last, adopted a report on temperance 
containing the following passages— or recommendation of changes 
in the Discipline : 

•*2. That section 6 of paragraph 175 be amended so that it shall read as 
follows : * To hold quarterly meetings in the absence of the presiding elder, 
and to see that the stewards provide unfermented Wine for use in the sacra* 
ment of the Lord's Supper, if practicable.* 



1 82 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

•* 3. That the sentence in brackets, unmediately preceding paragraph 4S4 
of the Discipline, be so changed as to read as follows : * Let none but the 
pure unfermented juice of the grape be used in administering the Lord's 
Supper.* 

** 4. We also recommend that the following be inserted in the Discipline 
as a separate chapter, expressive of the general sentiment of the Church on 
the temperance question : 

'TEMPERANCE. 

'Temperance, in its broader meaning, is distinctively a Christian virtue, 
scripturally enjoined. It implies a subordination of all the emotions, pas- 
sions, and appetites to the control of reason and conscience. Dietetically it 
means a wise use of useful articles of food and drink, with entire abstinence 
from such as are known to be hurtful. Both science and human experience 
unite with Holy Scripture in condemning all alcoholic beverages as being 
neither useful nor safe. The business of manufacturing and vending such 
liquors is also against the principles of morality, political economy, and the 
public welfare.'" 

The Centennial Conference of Free- Will Baptists, recently in 
session at Weirs, New Hampshire, adopted the following pream- 
ble and resolutions : 

'* WhereaSy After all the moral and legal temperance victories of the past, 
intemperance still remains the greatest evil of the age; therefore, resolved: 

** I. That while we thank God for the victories already gained, we would 
in this centennial year of our denomination reaffirm with increased em- 
phasis our uncompromising hostility to the intoxicating cup, and pledge 
ourselves anew to the use of all moral and prohibitory means for the utter 
suppression of the sale and use of intoxicating liquors. 

" 2. That wc have no fellowship with those Church members who, in the 
light of the nineteenth century, use as a beverage intoxicating drinks, in- 
cluding ale, lager-beer, wine or cider. 

** 8. That fermented wine should not be used in the communion service, 
and the Church or minister who uses it deserves censure. 

** 9. That the use of tobacco is an unclean and imnatural habit, and 
should be indulged in by neither ministers nor members of the Christian 
Church." 

Surely the life and light of the New Jerusalem are permeating 
the Churches around us. The paragraph above, headed "Tem- 
perance," could have no origin but from the Lord. He reforms 
and regenerates the human race through the angels of the New 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 183 

Heavens ; and He effects this divine work in the natural world, as 
far as it can be effected, through men of all religions, and all 
other instruments which the Divine Love by Divine Wisdom can 
marshal into the reconstructive work of the New Jerusalem 
dispensation. Let us remember that the doers of the truth 
alone have the promise that they shall see the truth. The man 
who uses either intoxicating drinks or tobacco, and the woman 
who wears tight dresses, are doing all they can to close their eyes 
and ears and understanding against the truth. Their depraved 
habits produce a corresponding and constantly increasing depra- 
vation of their physical and nervous systems; so that though 
those habits are sowing within them the seeds of disease and 
death, they are unable to perceive the injury that is being done 
them unless they will heed the Word of the Lord or the testi- 
mony of others. For that consciousness they must go outside of 
themselves, because these evils, like all spiritual evils to which 
they correspond, palliate the suffering which they cause, and 
fasten their chains tighter on their victims, actually making them 
feel better every time they indulge. Although it is through the 
understanding that man must be enlightened, yet there must be a 
willingness to obey, or "having eyes he will see not" and will not 
be convinced, however clear the light or truth. 

"God speed the time,'* says the Rev. Dr. Herrick Johnson, 
"when Scriptural arguments in behalf of wine-drinking shall be 
buried in a grave as deep as that where now lie the arguments 
by which the Word of God was once marshalled to the support 
of slavery ! God speed the time when alcoholic wines and 
strong drinks shall be swept from every Christian sideboard, and 
table, and social feast." 

"A few years since an English clergyman," says the Rev. 
Willianl M. Thayer, "who had been intemperate, reformed. At 
a public meeting in Manchester, he said, confessing his guilt, 
* My greatest sin is not found where I brought the most disgrace 
upon my Master*s cause in the public view ; my greatest sin, in 
the sight of God, was when I entered upon the course which led 
to drunkenness.* Was he not right? The intemperate man has 



I«4 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISaPLES IN 

incurred guilt somewhere. Was it when he first staggered under 
the influence of strong drink ? Nay, it was before that. Was it 
when he had been a moderate drinker one year, two years, (x 
more ? Was it when he drank his tenth, hundredth, or five him- 
dredth glass ? Was it not rather when he quaffed the first glass 
which lured him to all that followed ? * It is the first step that 
ruins.' * Enter not into the path of the wicked' (Prov. iv. 14). 
* Watch and pray, that ye enfer not into temptation* (Matt, xxvi. 
41). The divine prohibtion is laid upon the first step to ruin." 

The danger is always with the first glass \ the reformed inebriate 
who is looking to the Lord and striving to shun this evil realizes 
this. " Hence," says the Rev. Dr. Samson, "reformed inebriates, 
with one voice, have asked for an unintoxicating wine at the 
Lord's Supper ; and, when this provision has been thought im- 
possible, they have conscientiously abstained often firom partak* 
ing of the cup." 

"It is plain," says the Rev. W. M. Thayer, "that the prohibi- 
tion of drunkenness prohibits all indulgence which leads to 
drunkenness : as Dr. Duff" says, ' In condemning murder, the 
Bible of necessity condemns the use of any and all of those 
means which naturally and inevitably lead to it.' Reference 
may be made to the unfermented juice of the grape, and the 
word much used to guard them against over-indulgence, since 
Pliny, Columella, and others say with Dr. Rule, that many 
Romans were so fond of it that 'they would fill their stomachs 
with it, then throw it off" by emetics, and repeat the draught.' 
Thus it was with ' honey.' * Hast thou found honey ' ? asks Solo- 
mon ; * eat so much as is suflScient for thee, lest thou be filled 
therewith and vomit it' (Prov. xxv. 16). Bible temperance is 
'moderation' in the use of good things, and abstinence fix)m 
injurious things." 

Since the above was in type, we have sdected the following 
extracts firom the report of a lecture and remarks in the Glasgow 
(Scotland) League Journal : 

At a select meeting, which comprised many clergymen and 
physicians^ Dn B« W. Richardsoni speaking on the subject of 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. X§5 

unfermented wines for sacramental purposes, said, — " I think I 
might say in reference to Dr. Kerr's remarks about the constitu- 
tion of these wines, that if there is anything in what you may call 
similitude and in pure symbolism, as represented in the use of 
wine on the solenm occasion to which he refers, all the question 
of similitude turns toward a wine that is expressed simply from 
the grape. I think there is a passage in the service which says : 
*This is My blood.' Now, if you take that at all as meaning 
anything symbolic, then you have a common-sense view in the 
similitude which does really exist between the expressed juice of 
the wine and His blood. That is stricdy true. If you look at 
this table on the wall showing the compositions of the two kinds 
of wine, the one fermented, the other unfermented, you will see 
that the constituent parts actually of blood and of the expressed 
wine are strictly analogous. One of the most important elements 
of the blood, that which keeps it together, that which Plato speaks 
of as *the plastic part of the blood,' is the fibrine, and that is 
represented in the gluten of the unfermented wine. If we come 
to the nourishing part of the blood, that which we call the mother 
of the tissues, we find it in the unfermented grape, in the- albu- 
men, and that is also present in the blood ; and if we come to all 
the salts, there they are in the blood, and the proportion is nearly 
the same in the unfermented wine as in the blood ; and if we 
come to the parts of the wine which go to support the respiration 
of the body, we find them in the sugar. Really and truly on a 
question of symbolism, if there be anything at all in that, the 
argument is all in favor of the use of unfermented wine. But, 
again, I would put it in this way in support of Dr. Keir. Pre- 
suming that you want the real thing that was fermented for your 
purposes, I should say scientifically that you could not go to that 
thing in its purest form. If you really do want to put a fermented 
substance forward, then you should put it forward in all its purity. 
The logical argument would be not to take an irregular substance 
which is called wine, and which may contain half-a-dozen things 
that are altogether apart from the real thing, but the point would 
be to take, an actually pure, simple, fermented substance alto- 



l86 HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 

gether, free from everything except the fermented substance, the 
completed process and water. Yet, I suppose, if anything of that 
kind were put forward in the Church, it would be rebelled at uni- 
versally. No one would think of doing it. Yet that is what 
should be done logically if this is to be the thing. You either 
want a fermented or unfermented agent. If it be decided that a 
fermented agent is wanted, take it in all its purity ; if an unfer- 
mented agent, take th«it which is the natural, simple expression 6f 
the juice of the grape — the rich wine." 

Dr. Norman Kerr said, — "That at all periods in the history of 
the Christian Church, in necessity unfermented juice of the grape 
had been held to be wine for the purpose of the sacrament. 
Witnesses were cited in the original from the second, fourth, 
seventh, ninth, thirteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth 
centuries. Unfermented, unintoxicating wine was, at the present 
day, recognized as a lawful element of communion by the 
Methodist - Episcopal, and other bodies in America ; by the 
Established Church of Scotland, by a large number of Noncon- 
forming congregations throughout the kingdom, by a considerable 
array of Established Churches and their mission charges in 
England, and by the annual Mildmay Conference. One bishop 
had sanctioned its use, while several bishops had communicated 
in it and had made no sign.^'* 

HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 

This is a practical question, and especially so at this day, when 
no one who purchases either unfermented or fermented wine, 
unless he knows by whom it has been made and has confidence 
in the maker, can have any assurance that he is getting an un- 
adulterated article. The blood of the grape, which flows spon- 
taneously when the grape is punctured or crushed, Swedenborg 
informs us, as we have seen, has a higher or more celestial sig- 
nification than wine which is produced by pressure, and for this 
reason was not selected when the Lord instituted this ordinance ; 
and, if it is ever to become appropriate in the New Church, we 
think our readers will conclude with the writer, that the time will 



HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 187 

. not be during our generation, nor perhaps for many generations 
to come. 

" In remote antiquity, grapes were brought to the table, and 
the juice there expressed for immediate use." — Nott (London 
ed. p. 58). 

" Plutarch affirms that before the time of Psammetichus, who 
lived six hundred years before Christ, the Egyptians neither 
drank fermented vnne nor offered it in sacrifice." — Nott (Third 
Lectiure). 

"Josephus's version of the buder's speech is as follows : He 
said 'that by the king's permission he pressed the grapes into a 
goblet, and, having strained the sweet 7vine, he gave it to the 
king to drink, and that he received it graciously.' Josephus here 
VLsesg/eukos to designate the expressed juice of the grape before 
fermentation could possibly commence," — Bi^/e Commentary 
(p. 18). 

Bishop Lowth, of England, in his "Commentary on Isaiah," in 
1778, remarking upon Isa. v. 2, refers to the case of Pharaoh's 
butler, and says : " By which it would seem that the Egyptians 
drank only the fresh juice pressed from the grapes, which was 
called oinos ampillnos — that is, wine of the vineyards." 

Rev. Dr. Adam Clarke, on- Gen. xl. 11, says : "From this we 
find that the wine anciently was the mere expressed juice of 
the grape without fermentation. The saky, or cup-bearer, took 
the bunch, pressed the juice into the cup, and instantly delivered 
it into the hands of his master. This was anciently the yayin 
[wine] of the Hebrews, the oinos [wine] of the Greeks, and 
the mustum [new fresh wine] of the ancient Latins." Bagster's 
"Comprehensive Bible" quotes Dr. Clarke with approbation. 
. " It appears that the Mohammedans of Arabia press the juice 
of the grape into a cup, and drink it as Pharaoh did." — Nott 
(London ed. p. 59). 

" A singular proof of the ancient usage of squeezing the juice 
of grapes into a cup has been exhumed at Pompeii. It is that 
of Bacchus standing by a pedestal, and holding in both hands a 



138 HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 



large cluster of grapes, and sqaeezing the juice into a cup* 
Bible Wines. 




MUMmVE WINE HUSSS. 

" Professor Tishcendorf has. given us a learned edition of the 
Apochryphal ' Acts and Matthew/ a work which was in circula- 
tion in the second and third centuries; and in it we read: 
* Bring ye, as an offering, holy bread, and having pressed out 
into a cup three clusters from the vine be communicants with 
m&y— Rev. Joseph Cook. 



now SHAIX WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 189 

Beyond afl question, if we accept the Word of the Lord as 
atulhority, and in the opinion of the writer beyond the possi- 
bility of a doubt, if we accept Swedenborg as an authority 
on this subject, the recently expressed juice of the grape, used 
before fermentation has commenced, is appropriate for use in the 
Holy Supper. Except when kept below the temperature of 
50° it should not be j>rcssed from the grape earlier than the 
night before the day on which it is to be used, and then it should 
be bottled and carefully corked. It may be prepared by press- 
ing the grapes directly by the hands, as we have seen was often 
done by the ancients, or by any other method. 

This recently expressed must, or new wine, is certainly appro- 
priate, as Swedenborg tells us that must has the same significa- 
tion as wine, namely : " Truth derived from the good of charity 
and love" (A. E. 695) ; and that "new wine ij the divine truth 
of the New Testament — consequently, of the New Church; and 
old wine is the divine truth of the Old Testament, consequently 
of the Old Church." (A. R. 316.) 

By must, we know, he does not mean must during the process 
of fermentation, but that he does mean the recently expressed 
juice of the grape before fermentation has commenced, whereas 
fermented wine which has been so generally used he compares 
to falses from evil, as we have seen.* 

There are seasons of the year when fresh grapes can be had 
about as readily as wine ; and if grapes grown in a warm climate 
can be had, we have a sweet wine, very pleasant to drink ; but let 
them be grown where they will, we shall have a wine more palata- 
ble to the unperverted taste than the "stuff" which is sold as fer- 
mented wine. 

In this unfermcnted wine we have a fluid which can justly be 
termed the fruit of the vine, and which is not produced by 
leaven, like the essential ingredients in fermented wine. 

The objection was made to the writer by a respected clerical 
brother that wine, either recently pressed from the grapes, or 
bottled unfermented wine, if exposed to the air, would not keep ; 
and if a part of a bottle were used, the rest would spoil before 



190 HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 

an occasion again occurred for using it ; and he seemed to think 
it was an indication that it was not suitable for this purpose. In 
reply, we reminded him of the fact that if special pains were not 
taken to deprive the bread, which he uses for this purpose, of its 
moisture, it would spoil, or become mouldy and sour ; and that 
the meats, fruits, and vegetables from which he daily eats would 
spoil on keeping, many of them in a very short time. Again, we 
called his attention to another important fact, namely, that the 
use of mouldy and sour bread, tainted meats, and decaying vege- 
tables, however objectionable such use might be, and the writer 
would be the last man to advocate their use, would be far less ob- 
jectionable than the use of fermented wine ; for they would not 
impair to so great an extent his freedom and reason, and would 
never make him drunk, either naturally or spiritually ; whereas, 
the use of fermented wine causes insanity and natural drunken- 
ness, and affords a plane of influx for evil spirits which tend to 
infatuate and render men insane in regard to spiritual things. 

When it is desirable to preserve wine for future use, we think 
Aat, beyond question, the most suitable method is by boiling it 
down from one-third to two-thirds, skimming it carefully ; and, 
then, while hot, putting it into bottles, or into glass fruit-cans, 
and sealing it up as fruit is canned. Thus preserved, when wanted 
for use, it can be readily reduced in water to the desired thin- 
ness. If we wish to make a wine from northern sour grapes simi- 
lar to the wines of Palestine, or a sweet and palatable wine, it is 
necessary to add sugar. The Lord called the contents of the cup 
the fruit of the vine ; and we know of no method by which the 
fruit of the vine, or the entire juice which can be pressed from the 
the grape, can be preserved in its integrity except by boiling. It 
loses nothing but the water, which can be readily restored, as water 
is always the same when pure. There is no useful organic sub- 
stance removed, and it is not, like fermented wine, contaminated 
by any heterogeneous substance even if sugar is added. It is 
therefore, pure and contains the entire substance of the fruit of 
the vine, excepting the seeds, skins, and cellular and fibrous por- 
tions of the grapes. The boiled wine improves by age. 



HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 191 

" Archbishop Potter, who lived about two centuries ago, wrote 
in his * Grecian Antiquities' : 'The Lacedaemonians used to boil 
their wines upon the fire until the fifth part was consumed : then 
after four years were expired^ began to drink them.^ He refers 
to Democritus, a celebrated philosopher, who travelled over the 
greater part of Europe, Asia, and Africa, and who died 361 b. c. ; 
also to Palladius, a Greek physician, as making a similar state- 
ment. *Some of the celebrated Opimian wine mentioned by 
Pliny had, in his day, two centuries after its production, the con- 
sistence of honey." — Wines of the Bible, 

Where grapes are grown or can be had, every religious so- 
ciety, or every clergyman if he pleases, can prepare wine by this 
simple and cheap process, and always be sure of having a pure 
article at all seasons, and one which can justly be called the fruit of 
the vine, for in this process the gluten is preserved. In tiie other 
processes which we have described, namely, that of filtering re- 
peatedly, and that of keeping cool and settling, the gluten is 
removed ; therefore the wine thus preserved is not as perfectly the 
fruit of the vine as is the boiled wine ; although such wine is un- 
objectionable as a drink, and is many times nearer the fruit of 
the vine than fermented wine : still the writer would give the 
preference to boiled wine when it can be obtained. Then, 
beside, boiling has a good signification. ( A. C. 8496, 10,105.) 

As to wines which are preserved by the addition of foreign 
substances, with perhaps the exception of sugar, which are capa- 
ble of preventing or arresting fermentation, such as sulphur, the 
fumes of sulphur, salicylic acid, mustard, etc., we think they are 
all out of the question for sacramental purposes, although not as 
objectionable as fermented wine. Where the fumes of burning 
sulphur are simply used to destroy the germs of ferment m the 
cask before it is filled, and in the atmosphere between the bung 
and wine after the cask is filled, as is sometimes the case, no 
great injury to the wine can result. 

Rev. Joseph Cook, of Boston, in a sermon delivered while in 
England, says in regard to unfermented wine : " Your own Dr. 
Norman Kerr tells you that he drinks unfermented wine brought 



192 HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR CX)MMUNION WINE? 

from the East. I know where in London to buy that kind of 
wine. What is more, I know from some observation in the 
East and from reading testimonies from there that many Syrian 
Churches to-day use that kind of wine in their religious feasts. 
I have witnessed in London the processes by which unfermented 
wine is manufactured for the fifteen hundred congregations in 
the United Kingdom, which now use only such wine in their 
administration of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. The 
manufacturing chemist cited Columella's and Pliny's receipts for 
preventing fermentation, and assured me that he could not improve 
them in point of efficacy. Dr. Kerr has shown that wine may 
be preserved unfermented by eight or ten different methods, 
many of which were known to the ancients." 

The writer has called the attention of the reader to the most 
important of these methods in the chapter on the Wines of the 
Ancients, to which he refers him for further information on this 
subject. 

In regard to preserving wine, by the aid of a stratum of sweet 
oil, as practiced by the ancients and described in the preceding 
pages, lest some of his readers may be disappointed in experi- 
menting in that direction, the writer will say that the process evi- 
dently requires great care to prevent the germs of ferment being 
mixed with the wine. Of three experiments which the writer has 
made with a glass bottle and a stratum of sweet oil, during the 
the past season, only one has been successful, and in that the 
wine is beautiful and clear, with a moderate amount of lees in the 
bottle. Although the cork has been frequently removed, yet 
there has been no signs of fermentation. The bottle was scalded 
out before being filled, and was immediately filled with the cold 
juice just as it was squeezed by the hands from the grapes 
through two thicknesses of a linen strainer. The ancients, it will 
be remembered, oiled their vessels carefully on the inside before 
filling them with the juice of the grape ; and a bottle should be 
either oiled on the inside or carefully scalded with boiling water 
before being filled, even if it is a new bottle. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

PROHIBITION. 

We know that the use cf intoxicating drinks is, directly or in- 
directly, the cause of more than one- half of the crimes committed 
. and of tlie poverty, wretchedness, and insanity which exist in 
the communities where they are used ; and their use is the most 
prolific of all of the causes of disease, and even of idiocy. As 
to the mortality which results from this cause, we clip from the 
Morning Light oi May 7th, 1881, the following letter, which is a 
fair presentation of the results of careful observation : 

THE DEATH RATE AND TOTAL ABSTINENCE. 

Dear Sir, — With reference to Mr. Bingham's speech in your issue for 
April 23d, the following particulars may interest your readers : 

At the end of 1878 the average death rate in the General Section of the 
Sceptre Life Office for the fourteen years of its existence had been 8 in the 
I, GOO, in the Temperance Section 4 J. The number of deaths expected in 
the Temperance Section of the same office for the five years ending 1879 
was 90, the actual number dying being 47. 

The number of deaths expected in the General Section of the Temper- 
ance Provident Institution for the years 1871-75 was 1,266, the actual num- 
ber dying being 1,330; in the Temperance Section for the same period the 
number expected to die was 723 ; only 511 die#. Referring to this report, 
John Bright said the figures " are most remarkable. There is no mistake 
about it that the men who abstain from intoxicating drinks have an immense 
advantage, both physically and morally, over the rest of the community." 

The report of this same office for the year 1879 shows the same thing. 
During the year preceding the annual meeting the number of deaths ex- 
pected in the General Section was 305, the actual number dying being 326; 
in the Temperance Section " 196 were expected, and only 164 were ob- 
stinate enough to die. For the four years ending since the last division 
of profits the claims made in the Temperance Section were 215 less, in the 
General Section 2 more than expected. 

A map of the township of Toxteth Park, Liverpool, shows that a division 
containing no public-houses and five-twelfths of the whole population, 
(193)— 9 



194 PROHIBITION. 

rejoices in enough (45) paupers; the remainder of the township, with sevctt 
twelfths of the population and 200 public-houses, contains iy^<^^ paupers. 
* * * Finally, may I call the attention of your readers to the village of 
St. Johnsbury, Vermont, U. S. A. The Maine Liquor Law is enforced there 
with the result that its six constables work in the scale manufactories except 
on special days, when they "don their uniforms to make a little show. * * * 
No loafer hangs about the kerbstones. Not a beggar can be seen. No 
drunkard reels along the streets. There seem to be no poor. I have not 
seen, in two days' wandering up and down, one child in rags, one woman 
looking like a slut." — Hepworth Dixon, Letters front America, 

The figures I have quoted seem conclusive, for we must recollect that the 
General Sections are not composed of drunkards, only moderate drinkers 
are admitted to them. If, then, the mortality rate amongst total abstainers 
is so superior to moderate drinkers, total abstinence cannot be otherwise than 
better. George Gordon Pulsford. 

Hamstead, near Birmingham, April 18, 1 881. 

The only argument that can be urged to-day against prohibi- 
tion is that of expediency. The time has passed when any 
intelligent man will question the right of the community to pro- 
tect its members against such dire evils as result from the use of 
intoxicating drinks. Liberty is constantly restrained where its 
exercise may be used by any to his neighbor's detriment, or his 
own injury. A man cannot build a dwelling-house on his own 
land, and for his own use, until the proper department has certified 
that his plans are safe for his neighbors, and healthful for his own 
indwelling. A family living contentedly under ground, with 
insufficient light and air, are expelled from their home, and the 
cellar is closed, regardless of the complaint of landlord and 
tenant. No other evil is so productive of injury to the com- 
munity as this curse of alcohol ; yet almost any other may be 
legislated against if this is let alone. We punish with relentless 
severity the poor drunken wretch who has violated the law, 
though we know that the crime was committed when the stupify- 
ing and poisonous draught had deprived him entirely of that 
sense of right and wrong, which lies at the very foundation of 
moral responsibility. We punish the drunken criminal, not for 
the tippling which has led to his insanity and crime, but for the 
crimes that he would never have committed in his sober senses ; 



PROHIBITION. - I9S: 

and then we renew the license of the rum-seller whose liquor 
has crazed him ; so that when his term of punishment has expired 
he may again be subjected to the same temptation, and society 
again suffer from his evil-doing. Against every other danger we 
may protect ourselves without the cry of fanaticism, or danger to 
private rights. The officers of the law go into our most private 
apartments to search for sewer-gas, or some source of ill-health, 
that may work harm to a few occupants of the house, and pass 
by the licensed shop that corrupts a neighborhood and ruins 
bodies and souls. We compel the fencing in of an area, lest 
some unwary passer-by or some child may fall into it ; and allow 
the rum-seller his public bar-room, where he may display his 
decanters, and his beer-pump, and his free lunch to entice our 
young men into the broad road which leads to drunkenness and 
death. We enter by force if needs be, and take away sick 
children from their parents* care to a public hospital, and disin- 
fect houses where there has been a contagious disease. We 
break up gambling- hells, and policy-shops, and disorderly houses, 
because they are detrimental to the morals of the community. 
But there is no contagion more deadly, no gas more pernicious, 
no allurement to vice so potent as this curse of bar-room drink- 
ing. Where gaming, ruins one fortune rum ruins many ; and no 
other vice is so thoroughly destructive of all manliness as rum 
can be. What vice or weakness can we name that leads to crime 
as this does ? What vice or misery can we name to which the 
first glass may not lead ? Look at the squandered fortunes — the 
diseased frames — the imbecile minds — the ruined homes — the 
blighted lives — ^the broken hearts ! See in how many families of 
your own friends the curse comes, striking the brightest and 
best ; see the poverty, the ruin, the crime, and the vast multitudes 
going on in never-ending succession to fill drunkards* graves ; 
and then see the community lopping off little branches of evil, 
and letting this giant tree of evil stand to scatter its baleful 
seeds ! 

We ask you, intelligent reader, if such a course of conduct is 
worthy of a Christian or even a civilized people ? Is it not clearly 



196 PROHIBITION. 

our duty to protect the young and the weak from such a degrading 
evil as the sin of indulging in intoxicating drinks ? 

It does certainly seem that we should, at least, withhold the 
sanction of the law from the sale of such drinks. And it does 
seem that, if it is ever proper to enact laws to prevent crime and 
the contamination of the young, it is clearly our duty, if practi- 
cable, to do so in this instance. But we know very well that 
before a law can be enforced, the honest convictions of a very 
large majority of the people must sustain it. If there is any 
doubt upon this point, our first duty is clearly to do all we can to 
enlighten the people, and not to strive to enact prematurely a 
law which we have good reason to suppose will not be enforced. 

But the writer thinks that, if the advocates of total abstinence, 
even in the State of New York, would strive to enact a law to 
close all bar-rooms where intoxicating liquors are sold, or given 
away publicly to be drank on the premises ; and yet not attempt 
to prevent their sale in quantity to be taken away from the place 
of sale, that the good sense of the community would sustain such 
a law. The advocates of the liberty of drinking what they choose 
could not raise the cry that it interferes with their right to drink, 
and get drunk if they choose. The habit of drinking intoxicants 
at this day is generally acquired in bar-rooms, where young men 
can invite their comrades up to take a drink with them. Very 
few young men who have not acquired the habit of drinking 
would ever purchase liquor to carry it to their homes where, as 
a rule, even drunken parents do not favor their children's drink- 
ing. Under the operation of such a law the race of drinkers 
would materially lessen in a very few years, when there would 
be no difficulty in enacting and enforcing a prohibitor)' law. 

The Rev. Dr. Samson, in a work just published, entitled " Sci- 
ence the Interpreter of History as to Fermented Wine — a Supple- 
ment to the * Divine Law as to Wines,' " speaking of the efforts of 
the ancients to control and prohibit the use of wines, says : 

" That it was not the excess, but the use of wines, which the 
tmcients sought to control by law, is seen in .the entire list of pro- 
hibitions to youth, to -women, to nurses, to men in public service. 



. \ 



PROHIBITION. 197 

which Plato and Aristotle, Numa and Cato urged. That it is 
not the excessive use, but the intoxicant itself, that controls 
modem legislation is attested by the fact that it is not bread- 
shops, nor milk- dealers, that need to be restrained and pro- 
hibited ; while all unite in the effort to restrict and suppress beer- 
saloons, and to supplant them by coffee-shops. It is not wines, 
but intoxicating wines, that earnest Christian leaders seek to have 
exchanged for the ancient unintoxicating wines ; which Pliny 
states, though costly, as were choice fruits, were sought for the 
wealthy of his day. It is such wines that are now sought for the 
tables of the princely in wealth and intellect j and above all, for 
the table of the Lord around which the rich and the poor meet 
together. The noble condescension, if not the conscientious 
conviction, of American Christians cannot fall behind that of 
Churchmen of England in seeking and permitting the use of 
such wines." 

In Maine, as is well known to disinterested inquirers and 
observers, the law prohibiting the manufacture, sale, and giving 
away of intoxicating drinks, has been very fairly enforced for 
many years, perhaps as fully as laws against many other crimes ; 
and this notwithstanding the immense pressure which has been 
brought against it from its opponents all over the country. It 
will be much easier to enforce such a law when it is enacted by 
other States. 

As to Kansas, where such a law has recently been enacted, 
based upon a constitutional amendment, we will let the Governor 
speak for his State : 

PROHIBITION IN THE STATE OF KANSAS GOVERNOR ST. JOHN*S FIRM 

FAITH IN THE TEMPERANCE MOVEMENT. 

Governor John P. St. John of Kansas was in Indianapolis lately, 
and in a conversation with a reporter of the Sentinel, gave his 
views upon the causes and effects of the temperance movement 
in the State of Kansas. In reply to a question, its Governor said : 

"What has been accomplished in Kansas is of not near the 
importance of what will be done in Indiana. Our greatest work 



XgS PROHIBITION. 

is over ; the Prohibition Law is enforced, and our people would 
not be without it." 

"What started the prohibition movement in Kansas?" asked 
the reporter. 

"It originated through local option," was the reply, "which 
started a temperance sentiment ia the State that spread with 
great rapidity. In my town of Othalia, which has a population 
of about 3,000, a local option law was enforced a few years ago, 
and the three saloons were compelled to close on account of 
being unable to obtain the petition of two-thirds of the adult 
inhabitants of the town. Previous to this time the saloons paid 
the city ;? 1, 5 00 for license — ^$500 each — and out of this amount, 
which was received yearly, it became necessary to erect a small 
jail for drunkards. Since the saloons have been closed there 
has been no use for the jail, and but one drunken man has been 
seen on the streets since last November. The town was never 
T^efore so prosperous, and the improvements it has undergone are 
wonderful. Such was also the case with the towns of Ottawa, 
Hiawatha, and many others, and it did not take long to stir up 
a sentiment in favor of a prohibitory amendment to the State 
Constitution." 

"How long have you had prohibition in Kansas?" was the 
next query. 

"The amendment to the Constitution was passed by our Legis^ 
lature in 1879, and was voted on by the people at the next 
general election in 1880, and was carried by a majority of 8,000. 
It went into effect last May. Since then all disputed questions 
have been settled, and the Supreme Court and the Attorney- 
General have declared the law to be constitutional. Before the 
election we had to fight not only the combined whisky element 
of Kansas, but money was sent into the State from all parts of . 
the country to use in defeating the amendment. We came 
out victorious, however, and now if a vote should be taken by 
the people to restore anti-prohibition again it would be defeated 
by 70,000 majority. It is not a 'dead letter,* as many suppose, 
.as we permit no such things in Kansas. The whisky element 



PROHIBITION. 199 

have circulated the story all over the United States that the 
amendment prohibits the use of wine for sacramental purposes. 
Old drunkards and bummers who had not been in Church for 
twenty years shed crocodile tears over this matter. It is wholly a 
misrepresentation of facts. The amendment plainly says : 'The 
manufacture and sale ot intoxicating liquors shall be forever pro- 
hibited in this State, except for medical, scientific, and mechani- 
cal purposes.* Every Church in the State indorsed the law. 
Since we have had prohibition there has been a very noticeable 
decrease in crime. On the 30th day of December, 1880, there 
were 725 convicts in the State prison, and on June 30, 1881, 
there were 659, a decrease of 66 in six months. There had 
been no decrease for ten years before." 

"Does the temperance question enter into the politics of 
Kansas ?'* asked the scribe. 

" Prohibition was never a political question. I was elected as 
a straight radical Republican, and received a plurality of 5 2,000 
votes, which was a majority of 33,000 over the Democratic 
and Greenback candidates. I was nominated for the office on 
the first ballot, notwithstanding there were six other candidates. 
The Democratic party in Kansas, as an organization, is opposed 
to prohibition, although there are probably a large number of 
Democrats who favor prohibition and voted for it.*' 

"Is it true, Governor, that a large number of persons are 
leaving the State on account of the prohibitory law?" 

"It is not the case,** was the emphatic reply. "You cannot 
show me fifty men who have left Kansas on account of prohibi- 
tion. The saloon-keepers are the only men who are leaving. 
Where you get one of our saloon-keepers we get several Indiana 
families on account of prohibition, and the exchange is a good 
one for us. Never in the history of the State have we had such 
a fine immigration, and the immigrants are all of the better class, 
who make good citizens. The State is increasing in wealth, and 
the good results of prohibition are apparent to every one. We 
never had but two distillers to consume our corn, and therefore, 
there is no change in the market for grain. There always was a 



200 PROHIBITION. 

market for com on account of the outlet to the Gulf of Mexico, 
and the South." 

**What do you think of the progress of the temperance move- 
ment throughout the country? *' 

**It is my opinion," he. answered, "that it will not be a quarter 
of a century before there will be an amendment to the Constitu- 
tion of the United States. It would sooner occur if the debt ques- 
tion was out of the way. I do not beheve in that manner of paying 
the public debt, but the Government finds the income from the 
manufacture of alcohol a convenient way to assist in settling it." 

EMANUEL SWEDENBORG AND PROHIBrnON. 

In his Memorial to the Swedish Diet, quoted in a previous 
chapter, after suggesting that certain restrictions should be placed 
on the distilling of whisky, — " provided the public can be prevailed 
upon to accede to the measure," — Swedenborg says : "That is, if 
the consumption of whisky cannot be done away with altogether, 
which would be more desirable for the country's welfare and 
morality than all the income which could be realized from so 
pernicious a drink." 

Swedenborg well knew, as we know, that proliibition alone 
could do away with the use of whisky entirely, and it is of legal 
measures he is speaking in the above paragraph ; and that he 
would have approved of prohibition, if it had been practicable, 
the writer thinks is manifest. 

"I spoke with spirits," says Swedenborg, "concerning drunk- 
enness, and it was confirmed by them that it is an enormous sin, 
as well as that man becomes a brute [and] no longer a man ; 
because that man is a man lies in his intellectual faculty, thus he 
becomes a brute, besides which he brings damage on his body, 
and so hastens his death, besides wasting in extravagance what 
might be of use to many. — (1748, June 27.) And it appeared to 
them so filthy that they abhorred such a life, which mortals never- 
theless have introduced among themselves as a civil life." (S. D. 
2422.) No wonder that Swedenborg favored prohibition. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 

While the New Church in this country, as an external organi- 
zation, is silent in regard to the evils of intemperance, and so 
many of its periodicals and clergy are striving to justify the use 
of fermented wine, and some of them of whisky, as beverages, 
our brethren in Great Britain are awakening to the importance of 
this question. It was stated some months ago, in the Morning 
Lights that one-third of the New Church clergy and one-third of 
the laity in that country were advocates of total abstinence. A 
New Church Temperance Society, with auxilliary societies, has 
been formed, and "Bands of Hope," in various localities, are 
energetically laboring in this great reform movement. 

At the annual meeting or the New Church Conference recently 
held, we are told by the Morning Light, that " resolutions were 
passed unanimously expressing the satisfaction of the Conference 
at the formation of the New Church Temperance Society, and in 
favor of the Sunday Closing Bill." 

The Temperance Society held its annual meeting during the 
session of the Conference. In regard to this meeting, the Morn- 
ing Light says : 

" In the evening a very successful meeting was held in the large school- 
room, the room being well filled — indeed a great many friends being obliged 
to stand. At half-past seven the Rev. G. H. Smith took the chair, and 
mentioned the broad basis of the Society, recommending all present to join 
its ranks before leaving that night. The Rev. P. Ramage moved the first 
resolution — *That this meeting expresses its satisfaction in the establish- 
ment of the New Church Temperance Society, and cordially recommends 
its operations to every member in the New Church.' Mr. Ramage made a 
brief but able speech, dwelling on the importance of bringing up children 
in the habits of total abstinence. The Rev. R. R. Rodgers warmly sup- 
ported the resolutions, and said that he thought at one time no one could 



202 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

have felt more certain than he that only moderate drinkers possessed com- 
mon sense, and that teetotallers were ail fanatics. However, during the 
last year, when he had really and thoroughly investigated the matter, he 
found that in every way the teetotaller had the best of the argument. 
Whether it was in science, in health, or in practice, all on investigation 
tended to prove total abstinence was more productive of health, longevity 
and comfort, and therefore, as an honest man, he could not help siding 
with total abstinence. He was not a teetotaller at present, but he v/as 
coming to it. [We wish all of our clerical brethren could say as much.] 
He hoped that every minister and representative of the Conference woidd 
join the Society before returning home. The resolution was then put to 
the meeting, and carried unanimously amid loud applause. 

" The next resolution was — * That this meeting, deeply impressed with 
the evils which the national intemperance is daily producing— evils domestic, 
social, economical, political and moral, and which Mr. Gladstone has 
described as equalling the combined calamities of war, pestilence, and 
famine — earnestly asserts the paramount necessity of dealing with the ques- 
tion by legislative enactment at the earliest opportunity.* 

"This was moved by Dr. F. R. Lees, of Leeds, who spoke at some 
length, showing wherever prohibition had been tried, whether in England, 
Ireland, Australia or America, the result had been the great diminution of 
.all kinds of crime, and the social and moral elevation of the people. The 
Rev. J. Deans, in a few words, supported the resolution, which was carried 
unanimously." 

Shall we of the New Church in this country set our faces 
against this fearful evil of indulging in intoxicating drinks, and 
consequently put away drunkenness from our midst ; or shall we, 
knowing and remembering that such drinks are the product of 
human manipulation and skill, or science aided by leaven, con- 
tinue to cling to, and lug along, these flesh-pots from Egypt in our 
journey toward the Holy City ? We pray for the peace of the 
New Jerusalem, and that the promises of increase made to her 
may find a speedy fulfillment on the earth. May not the day 
which we thus desire and hope for be hastened or delayed, as we 
ourselves shall prepare the way for it, by shunning evils as sins 
against God. We are told in the writings of the Church that the 
^'falsities of the former Church fight against the truths of the New 
Church " (A. R, 548), and " that the Church should at first be 
among a few, and should increase gradually among many, because 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 203 

the falsities of the former Church must first be removed, as truths 
cannot before be received ; for the truths which are received and 
implanted before falsities are removed do not remain." With 
these words before us, can we believe it possible that the Lord in 
His Providence will permit a Church organization to prosper, as 
we all feel the New Church should prosper, and cover the earth, 
while such an organization and its periodicals and clergy, so 
generally are either silent in regard to such evils or direct advo- 
cates of drinking of intoxicating liquors, of smoking and chewing 
tobacco — a. terribly poisonous substance — and of the pernicious 
fashionable habits so destructive to our race ; thus either tolerat- 
ing or directly striving to perpetuate during the endless ages to 
come, drunkenness, filthy habits : a polluted atmosphere for men, 
women and children to breathe ; deformity, disease and the de- 
struction of a large portion of the children before they are five 
years old ; and permitting few to reach advanced age. These 
evils, as we have heretofore intimated, have come down to us from 
a perverted age of the world and a fallen state of the Church, and 
we must put them away as sins agamst God. What a dreadful 
thing it is to strive to justify them from a religious standpoint, and 
thus to perpetuate them from generation to generation ! 

What a fearful thing for humanity, if the New Jerusalem Church, 
the Crown of all the Churches, were, as an external organi- 
zation, to prevail rapidly and spread over the earth, hugging 
to her bosom the monstrous evils we have named above ; or, at 
least, allowing them to prevail without one word of rebuke, and 
thus perpetuating them. We can stand aloof, my brethren, from 
the great reforms of this new age ; indeed, we may oppose them 
if we will ; but let us not forget that by so doing we shall be hin- 
dering, as far as within us lies, the Lord's work on earth, by 
cherishing and defending the falsities of the former Church within 
the New Church : and opposing and discrediting the New Jerusa- 
lem now descending from God out of Heaven, which is making 
all things new. Light has come into the world, showing us many 
evils that were before esteemed good : and that light will con- 
demn us if we walk not according to it. These great reform 



a04 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

movements did not exist and could not have existed before the 
Last Judgment. They are clearly of the New Jerusalem, we 
may not be, for it requires life as well as faith to make a man 
a genuine New Churchman. We must shun evils as sins against 
God — shun them in our external lives, and discountenance them 
in others by our example, if we would enter the Holy City. It is 
not well for us to deceive ourselves or others. 

The State Board of Public Charities in the State of Massa- 
chusetts make this significant statement ; that in the careful 
breeding of cattle 96 per cent, come to maturity, and that of 
horses 95 per cent, come to maturity even in this northern 
climate ; but in the breeding of children less than 65 per cent, 
comes to maturity. 

Only think of it, dear reader. Seven times as many of the 
human race, whom the Lord has endowed with freedom and 
reason die before reaching maturity, as die among cattle and 
horses ; and this is not the worst feature of the comparison which 
can be made; for those which reach a mature age among 
the above animals, if their lives are not taken, and they are 
not abused by man, almost all will be healthy, strong, and 
well-developed, and finally die of old age ; while among the 
human species, almost all inherit a tendency to some one or 
more of the various diseases which afflict humanity, and a ma- 
jority cannot be regarded as healthy, and are subject to serious 
periods of suffering, if they do not suffer more or less almost 
constantly from the time of birth to the grave. Insanity is also 
fearfully prevalent, and deformity is common among the men. 
Among the women it is very difficult to find a single beauti- 
ful, symmetrical, graceful human form, for deformity is the rule, 
. — alas ! too frequently voluntarily induced, as in the case of the 
deformed waists which are almost universal. 

We judge of the age of a horse by his teeth. What success would 
we have in judging of the age of middle-aged men and women by 
their teeth? Why, it often happens that by the age of forty or 
fifty years, when they should be in their prime, they have no 
teeth ; but if they are more fortunate, it very firequently happens 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. ^©5 

that they are so crowded and decayed, or so many of them 
gone, that we should find them a very poor criterion by which 
to judge of the age of the individual. 

Now, dear friends, this direful state of things, this deformity, 
insanity, suffering, and premature death, are the result of causes 
both spiritual and physical — are the result of the violation of the 
laws of spiritual and physical life and health, resulting firom the 
abuse of the freedom and reason with which the Lord has 
endowed us. We cannot attribute it all to ignorance, for the 
animals are ignorant, but comparatively healthy. A large portion 
is due to the evils of a long line of ancestors ; but, insomuch as 
we violate the laws of spiritual and physical life we individually 
are responsible, and we are responsible for the example which we 
set to others. How important for us, how important for the 
world around us, and for our children and our children's children 
for ages to come, that we realize our responsibility and shape 
our lives accordingly. Can you, dear parents, see your own child 
suffering and dying, while the offspring of tlie animals around you 
are so generally healthy and grow to maturity, without feeling 
that some little responsibility rests upon you, without bemg 
moved by sympathy for the children, which the Lord has en- 
trusted to your care, to inquire earnestly into the causes which 
have produced the suffering and death of your little ones ? You 
will not have to inquire long, to find that to gratify perverted love 
of approbation or vanity, and perverted appetites and passions, 
habits are voluntarily followed which are fearfully destructive to 
our race. 

We think we can say, without any danger of having our opinion 
called in question by any one who has patiently and carefully 
examined into the causes of the physical suffering, deformity 
and premature deaths around us, that tight-lacing among our 
women impairs the physical development and stamina of our race 
more than any other evil ; for it saps the very foundations of life, 
by preventing the development of the young, before they are 
bom, and by too frequently deprivi^ig them of proper nourish- 
ment after birth. The women of the New Church here have a 



2o6 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

work to do which they should not neglect. This fearful evil, 
which is so destructive, should be put away and shunned as a sin 
against God. Idleness among the young women is also a great 
evil with many, and prevents the development of the body. 

But beyond all question the use of intoxicating drinks, which 
have their origin as we have seen from hell, demoralizes and 
depraves men, and causes more insanity, mental suffering, and 
wretchedness than any other evil. While the New Church 
organizations, its pulpits, — with a very few noble exceptions, — and 
its periodicals are either shunning this subject, or directly jus- 
tifying and thus encouraging the use of intoxicating drinks ; 
and so many of our clergymen are vindicating the use of fer- 
mented wine, and some even of whisky; the religious world 
around us is alive to the importance and duty of shunning this 
evil. We ask our brethren to consider seriously the following 
paragraph which we take from the New York Tribune : 

"The Methodist Conference, which closed its sessions in Portland, Me., 
last week, adopted a striking report on the evils of intemperance. The 
charge was made that more than two-thirds of the murders committed can 
be laid at rum's door. Fifty per cent, of all the insanity comes from strong; 
drink. Seventy-five per cent, of all criminals become such while crazed by 
drink, and ninety-six per cent, of all the tramps and worthless youth of the 
land swarm from drunken homes. It costs for the support of 63,000 
churches, 80,000 ministers, all public schools and colleges, all missions, all 
benevolent work in the United States, and the support of the National 
Government, not over ^55500,000,000 a year. It costs for 250,000 dram- 
shops, 400,000 liquor-sellers, over 300,000 criminals, 800,000 paupers, 30,000 
idiots, nearly 70,000 drunkards' funerals, and to maintain the orphan asy- 
lums, reformatories, etc., more than a billion a year. Who is responsible 
for all this waste of money, and health and life ? The Church of Christ is 
largely responsible; for the Master has said to His Church, * Ye are the 
light of the world, ye are the salt of the earth.' " 

The Methodist Church is one of the largest, most prosperous, 
and progressive of the churches of our country. It commenced 
its existence but a short time after the Last Judgment, and to-day 
its adherents number more than any other denomination in the 
United States ; while the adherents of the organized Church of 



■ WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. ^07 

the New Jerusalem, only number a few thousands. It is true that 
all the believers of the heavenly doctrines do not belong to 
the organized New Church, for many of them are to be found 
scattered among the members of other Churches, and some are 
not members of any Church organization ; still their number is 
comparatively small, for the prediction was, that at first their 
number would be few, but afterward they would increase. Have 
we any indications that the time for such increase is at hand ? Can 
we not see in the attitude which the organized New Church occu- 
pies to-day, on the great reforms of the age, the reason why 
its members are so few ? 

There are millions of people in the United States^ who belong 
to no Church, who do not regularly attend Church, and who be- 
lieve the doctrines of no religious body. They have discarded many 
false doctrines, but have no accurate knowledge of true doctrines, 
excepting a general acquaintance with the Commandments of the 
Decalogue, and the precepts enunciated by the Lord when He 
was on earth, and for these they entertain more or less respect. 
They are not hypocrites, and many of them are intelligent men 
and women, and live orderly lives. They generally respect people 
who live good lives, and will Usten attentively and approvingly to 
earnest practical preaching which inculcates a good life. Here, 
then, in our own country, living in our very midst, are people 
enough in this Gentile state, to form a nation, which, standing 
by itself, would command the respect of the world. The 
New Church has true doctrines, and the most valuable precepts 
of life which can be rationally seen to be true — ^true in the light 
of truth itself. 

Why is it, then, that the New Church does not make more rapid 
progress among this multitude, to all appearance so admirably 
prepared for a reception of her clear and rational doctrines? 
Have we who have received these beautiful revelations cast any 
stumbhng-blocks in their way ? Have our clergymen and writers 
done so ? These are questions well worthy of our consideration. 
If the reader will pardon him, the writer will give a little of his. 
own history. Although the son of a deacon of the Baptist 



208 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN ANI> ' 

Church, he never united with that Church, but early began to 
doubt many of its doctrines ; and at thirty years of age, he 
belonged to the great class of Gentiles, if you please to call them 
so, to which he has alluded. While practising medicine in a 
Western city, two of his patrons, one a lady and the other a 
gentleman, lent him Professor George Bush's "Reasons,'* and 
Swedenborg's "Heaven and Hell," both of which he read. 
About that time some lectures were being given by a New 
Church clergyman, which he attended, and in this way he soon 
became deeply interested in the Writings of Emanuel Swedenborg. 
His business partner, similarly situated, also commenced reading 
about the same time. It was soon known by the members of the 
Church there, that we were reading the writings with some 
interest ; and soon afterward we were invited to a New Church 
"sociable," which we attended. During the evening, fermented 
wine was passed around to the company present, and offered to 
us. We were shocked beyond measure, and quietly spoke to 
the New Church clergyman in regard to it, there and then ; 
when, to our surprise, he justified its use, quoting for that purpose 
some passages from Swedenborg, and then drank of it himself 
along with others of the company. 

When the writer was about eighteen years old, his father gave 
up the use of intoxicating drinks, and signed a pledge never to 
use them again, and his son followed his example. In looking 
back over the years which have since passed, at his own life and 
the lives of his acquaintances, if there is one thing standing out 
boldly, above all others, for which he to-day specially feels thank- 
ful to his father, it is for the example which he then set before him. 
We know that it is not every child who follows the example of 
his parents ,•- but many do, both in good and evil. That pledge 
the writer conscientiously kept. When a young man, away 
from kindred and home, and travelling for months among stran- 
gers, he was often asked to drink, even by ladies, but that pledge 
was — what the Church should be to all its members — a protec- 
tion against the debasing evil of drinking and drunkenness. 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH; ' -209 

There are millions of men and women in our country, who 
belong to no Church, but who have taken a pledge to abstain 
from the use of intoxicating drinks, honestly feeling that it is 
wrong to use them, and who, we have every reason to suppose, 
are conscientiously keeping it, and are thereby shielded and 
protected, not only from drunkenness, but from many other 
evils ; for Swedenborg teaches us, that when a man conscientiously 
shuns one evil, the Lord strives to keep him in the effort to shun 
all evils. Here, then, is good ground for the reception of the 
rational doctrines of the New Church, and a vast field ready for 
the seedsman. But, we ask you, intelligent reader, if a minister, 
missionary, writer, layman, or periodical, with, as it were, the 
clear and beautiful revelations of the New Church in one hand, 
and a glass of intoxicating wine, beer, or perhaps whisky in the 
other hand, is likely to command the respect, or even seriously 
attract the attention of many of this great army of total abstinence 
men and women dwelling among us ? Is this not a dreadful evil, 
a hindrance to the Church's progress, and a stumbling-block to 
many conscientious men, which we, as New Churchmen, should 
remove out of the path of others, by putting it away from our lives 
and from our communion-tables ? 

Again, there is scarcely a man or woman in this great mul- 
titude who does not recognize the fact that the use of tobacco 
is a filthy and injurious habit, totally unbecoming a Christian 
man; a large number of total abstainers from intoxicating 
drinks abstain also from the use of tobacco, because they 
feel that it is injurious to health, and consequently wrong to use 
it. There are very few in the community who, whether they use 
it or not, do not recognize and will not acknowledge that its use 
is injurious, and that it is really an evil which should be put away. 
Now, with the glorious doctrines in our keeping, that "all 
religion has relation to life, and that the life of religion is to do 
good," and that to shun evils as sins is to do good ; what is the 
example so frequently set by even venerable and deservedly 
esteemed members of our New Church organizations ? Is it such 
as will command the respect of this large class of our citizens 



2io FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

who totally shun the evils we are considering ? If these men to 
whom we may best appeal, judge the doctrines offered for their 
acceptance by the teaching and example of those who hold and 
advocate them, will they not be repelled by the consciousness 
that instead of advancing to a higher plane of life in the New 
Church, they will be abandoning good for evil, and descending 
to a lower plane ? The teaching of men who justify, and thus 
encourage the use of intoxicating drinks can never command the 
the respect of total abstinence men and women. The Church 
will not grow as she should till she is purged from the old leaven ! 

Doubtless, many remember the anecdote which was told of a 
prominent member of a Church, who met his pastor, as he was 
about entering the pulpit, and, whispering in his ear, said : 
**Be very careful and not say anything in your sermod about the 

manufacturing, sale, and use of intoxicating drinks, for Mr. , 

the distiller, who contributes largely to the support of our Church, 
I see is present." "Well," replied the clergyman, "what shall I 
preach about, if I may not speak of such an evil?" "Why," 
replied the member, "preach about anything — anything else — 
preach about the Mormons; there is not a single Mormon in 
our congregation." 

But preaching which purposely shuns the habitual evils of life, 
such as the selling and using of intoxicating drinks and tobacco, 
and of tight-lacing — evils which are so fearful in their consequences 
as to lessen the vitality of our race, and to impair the health, and 
even to destroy the lives of men, women, and innocent children — 
does not to-day command the respect of this vast multitude of 
intelligent men and women, who, belonging to no Church, are 
shunning these evils. Evils in our day are brought to light and 
made more clearly manifest than they have been in past ages, 
and intelligent men, who would be likely to receive the doctrines 
of the New Church, see them when properly presented by preach- 
ing, and respect those who shun them in their lives. 

Herein, it seems to the writer, lies the power of the Methodist 
Church among those outside of Church organizations, and the 
reason why it has made such progress in the world. It has been 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 811 

foremost in denouncing evils, and active in every great reform 
movement. It gave forth no uncertain sound as to that "sum of 
all villainies," human slavery, and it was a power in the land for 
good in the contest that resulted in its final overthrow. In re- 
gard to the terrible evil of intemperance, the Methodist Conference 
fearlessly declares as above that " The Church of Christ is largely 
responsible " for all of the resulting waste of money, and health, 
and life ; "for the Master has said to His Church, *Ye are the 
light of the world, ye are the salt of the earth.' " 

As to the use of tobacco, the testimony of the Methodist Church 
is almost unanimously against it, and it has not feared to grapple 
with the injurious and destructive habits of women, to point them 
out, and to call upon its members to shun them. If it haa some- 
times denounced innocent and useful amusements, and harmless 
forms of dress, we should remember that most of its members are 
living only in the dawning light of the New Jerusalem, and do not 
even recognize the source from which the light of this new age is 
coming ; but we know that those who strive to live in accordance 
with the truths which they already see, are, as a rule, the first to 
recognize other truths when they are presented ; consequently, as 
might be expected, we have good evidence that the light of the 
New Jerusalem is permeating this Church rapidly. There are 
several other Churches not far behind the Methodist-Episcopal 
Church in their condemnation of the drinking of intoxicating wine ; 
and, consequently, they are becoming arks of safety against the 
flood of drunkenness, and a host of other evils intimately con- 
nected with wine and whisky-drinking. Is it strange that fathers 
and mothers who love their children, and care for their future 
happiness and welfare, hesitate before leaving a Church, where 
they are taught by the pulpit and press, and by the precepts and 
example of its members, to shun the use of intoxicating wine-^ 
to say nothing of whisky — for the purpose of joining a Church 
which, by its pulpit and its press, is generally, either silent, or 
justifying the use of this fearfully poisonous and destructive drink ; 
and whose members, even to its'clergy, so firequently set an exam- 
ple to the young hy openly using it ? 



i4t2 HNAL APPEAL TO THE MHSf AND 

A recent Writer says truly that, " Entire abstinence insures 
safety ; nothing else can. It is a great act to reclaim a drinking 
man, but how much greater to keep a young man from the use of 
intoxicating drinks.'* 

' But, to return to the subject of the writer's first attendance at a 
New Church " sociable" over thirty years ago, the clergyman and 
such of his congregation as desired were holding meetings on 
Sunday afternoons, for the purpose of reading and conversing 
about the new doctrines. When fermented wine was presented at 
the " sociable," as already stated, the writer and his business partner 
requested that the subject of intoxicating wine should be brought 
up and considered at the next meeting : to which proposition 
the clergyman consented. We had read the Writings of Swedea- 
borg, at that time, only to a very limited extent ; but we could not 
believe it was possible, that the beautiful and rational writings 
we had been reading, could advocate and justify the drinking of 
intoxicating drinks, or in any way countenance their use. 

Jn the discussion at our Sunday afternoon meeting, we pre- 
sented the scientific aspect of the question, bringing evidence that 
fermented wine is a poison, every way injurious and destructive 
when used as a beverage ; and we called attention to the fearful 
consequences which had resulted to our race fi-om its use, both 
physically and spiritually, and to the testimony of the Word of 
the Lord as to its pernicious character. We were met by the 
clergyman with the comparisons found in the Writings of Sweden- 
borg, which we have considered in a previous chapter, and by 
assumptions, and arguments based thereon, which we have also 
considered in the preceding pages. Neither party was satisfied 
by the result of the afternoon's discussion, and neither was 
convinced, consequently we adjourned the further considera- 
tion of the subject to the next Sabbath afternoon. In the 
meantime, our reverend friend prepared a sermon which he 
preached in the forenoon, in which he earnestly endeavored to 
sustain his views, and in which he took the ground that alcohol 
was the result of the influx from the celestial angels, angels of the 
highest heaven, down into the juice of the grape, moving and 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 2|3 

separating and precipitating "its earth-born impurities.'^ We 
were not idle during the week, and providentially we obtained a 
copy of Swedenborg's work on " The Divine Love and Wisdom," 
and found the chapter'treating of good and evil uses ; where we 
saw that all things which hurt and kill men, all poisonous substances 
which injure men, were not created by the Lord, but that they 
derive their life from hell. So that when we came together on 
the Sabbath afternOv>n to discuss the question, we took the ground 
that alcohol was produced by the influx from devils of the lowest 
hell — well, the reader will readily understand that there was a 
slight difference betwen the views of the clergyman and of his 
novitiate laymen, and the discussion was an earnest one, the 
reader may rest assured ; and at its close, it was not the present 
writer who was anxious to drop the question. We know we did 
hot convince our reverend friend, for in a communication 
recently received, he still talks about the "earth-born impuri- 
ties," as if the cultivated and sweet grape had, like man, fallen 
and was impure. The cultivated grape, as we understand it, is 
beyond a question a " good gift of God," and has no impurities ; 
for with the exception of the seeds and skin, it contains nothing 
but what is useful to sustain, nourish, and build up the body of 
man. There is, so far as we know, no other vegetable fluid which 
so perfectly contains all the constituents required to nourish the 
human body as unfermented wine, and it is for this reason that 
it has a similar signification to that of blood ; whereas, chemistry 
demonstrates that fermented wine, with the exception of a portion 
of the sugar, and even this is not always present, contains few, if 
any, of the valuable vegetable, compounds, which were organized 
for the sustenance of man, in the fruit of the vine, which have 
not been either entirely or partially changed in the direction of 
decay ; and we have in tlieir stead, resulting from the destruction 
of the gluten and sugar, alcohol, the most pernicious poison known 
to, or used by, man. It would seem that the great change which is 
wrought upon the pure grape juice by leaven, should satisfy 
every New Churchman that fermented wine is not suitable for a 
drink or for sacramental purposes. The Church of the New 



214 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

Jerusalem using leavened wine in the most Holy Supper ! Only 
think of it, dear reader. Is it strange that this most useful and 
beneficial ordinance is not more regularly attended by the mem- 
bers of our societies ? 

The Passover was one of the representatives which our Lord 
did not abrogate. From the whole of the Jewish representative 
worship these two, Baptism and the Most Holy Supper, were 
passed over into the first Christian Church; and then con- 
tinued into the New and Everlasting Church now being built up. 
"Of all those representatives the Lord retained but two, which 
were to contain in one complex whatever related to the internal 
Church. These two are Baptism instead of washings, and the 
Holy Supper instead of the lamb which was sacrificed every day, 
and particularly at the feast of the Passover." (T. C. R. 670.) 

It will be seen, then, that the Holy Supper was wholly represent- 
ative and correspondential, and that the correspondences which 
pertained to the Jewish Passover, so far as leaven which always 
has an evil signification is concerned, belong to this in every 
particular. 

We know that in the Passover ever)rthing leavened was strictly 
prohibited, and as we have seen in preceding chapters, we have 
every reason to suppose that the Lord took the Passover cup 
when He instituted the Holy Supper, and consequently that it 
was unfermented wine which He styled the fruit of the vine. 
The following is Swedenborg*s formula for preparing bread for 
the Holy Supper : 

"That in the Holy Supper, bread (which is there fine flour mixed with oil) 
and wine signify love and faith, thus the all of worship." (A. C. 4581.) 

There is no leaven here, and nothing leavened, for Swedenborg 
draws the above from the meat offerings and drink offerings de- 
scribed in Leviticus xxiii. and Numbers xv. Will our brethren 
of the New Jerusalem Magazine please note this? Swedenborg, 
in speaking of our Lord's remarks after He had instituted the 
Holy Supper, says : " Good from truth and truth from good, 
whereby the intellectual principle is made new, or the man is 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 515 

made spiritual, is signified by the fruit of the vine ; the appropri- 
ation thereof is signified by drinking. To drink denotes to ap- 
propriate, and is predicated of truth. That this is not done fully 
but in the other life, is signified by, ' until that day when I shall 
drink it new with you in My Father's kingdom.* That the 
fruit of the vine does not mean must or wine \_non mustum nee 
vinum\ but somewhat heavenly of the Lord's kingdom, is 
very manifest." (A. C. 5 113.) It is perfectly clear from the 
above that Swedenborg did not understand that the majterial wine 
which the Lord and His disciples had been using when He in- 
stituted the Holy Supper was fermented wine. It is certain that 
He had in mind unfermented wine by his using the terms must or 
wine. So that if we accept Swedenborg as authority as to the 
kind of wine used by the Lord and His disciples in this Holy 
Ordinance, there is no doubt but that they used unfermented 
wine. 

Why should we not follow the Lord's example, and use 
unfermented wine instead of fermented or leavened wine? 
Why should we persist in using an intoxicating wine which 
will cause stupor, drunkenness, insanity, disease and death, and 
which we know, according to the philosophy of the Church, 
has its origin from hell, and which Swedenborg directly compares 
to falses from evil, as we have seen? (A. E. 1035.) Can we 
imagine it possible, that Swedenborg would have compared a 
wine which is suitable for use in the most Holy Supper to the 
worst kind of falses — falses from evil ? Please remember that he 
gives us no chance to doubt as to the kind of wine to which he 
refers in this comparison ; it is the wine that causeth drunken- 
ness. Is it possible that the New Church can prosper while it 
uses such a wine in this most Holy Ordinance, and while many 
of its preachers, writers, and members justify and advocate its 
use as a beverage, and set the example of using it? Is it not 
time that we of the New Jerusalem Church "put a difference 
between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean"? 
"Do liot drink wine, nor drink that maketh drunken." — Lev. x. 
8, 9. (A. C. 1072.:) 



2l6 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

• The Writings tell us that, "To prevent also the celestial princi- 
ple of the Lord, which is the Lord's proprium, and which alone 
is celestial and holy, being commixed with man's proprium which 
is profane, in any representative right, they were enjoined not to 
sacrifice or offer the blood of the sacrifice on what was leavened 
(Ex. xxiii. i8; xxxiv. 25), what was leavened signifying what 
was corrupt and defiled." (A. C. looi.) "Whereas, the con- 
junction of the Lord with mankind is effected by love and charity, ' 
and faith thence, those celestial and spiritual things were repre- 
sented by the unleavened bread, which was to be eaten on the 
days of the Passover, and it was to prevent the defilement of those 
things by anything profane, that what was fermented was so 
severely prohibited, that they who ate it should be cut off; for 
they who profane things celestial and spiritual must needs 
perish." (A. C. 2342.) 

How wonderfully clear the science of correspondences makes 
this entire subject. "The false," says Swedenborg, "does not 
accord with good, but destroys good, for the false is of evil, and 
truth is of good." (A. C. 7909.) 

"Leaven denotes the false," we are told by Swedenborg. (A. 
C. 7906.) And as good in truth, which nourishes and gives sub- 
stance to the regenerating spirit of man, is destroyed by the false, 
if man imbibes and appropriates the false ; so leaven in its action 
on unfermented wine, to the extent that fermentation proceeds, 
perverts, destroys, separates, or precipitates everything which nour- 
ishes the material body of man as good does his spirit. It destroys 
the gluten, the albumen, the sugar, the phosphorus, the malic acid, 
bitartrate of potash, and the tartrate of lime, which give substance 
to the wine, and which cause it, when boiled, to form a rich, thick 
syrup, and if boiled a sufficient length of time, a comparatively solid 
body, capable of being restored to its original integrity by the addi- 
tion of water. You can get no rich syrup, and little or no valuable 
solid body of food substance from what is regarded as good, well- 
fermented wine ; for the bread portion which nourishes the material 
body of man as good in truth does his spiritual body, has been 
mostly destroyed by leaven. Surely, an intelligent New Church- 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 217 

man need not go beyond the clear correspondences in this case to 
be satisfied that fermented wine is in no way a suitable article for 
any one to imbibe, or to be used as sacramental wine. If any one 
is not satisfied^ he has only to contrast the different action of 
unfermented and fermented wine upon the body and mind of 
man. The former nourishes and builds up the body, without any 
unnatural excitement ; the sweet, which corresponds to spiritual 
delights, makes glad the heart of man ; it creates no unnatural 
appetite, and therefore does not require to be taken in increased 
quantities to satisfy the appetite for it ; it causes no disease pecu- 
liar to itself, even when taken in excess — ^no disease which any 
other healthy article taken in excess might not cause. 

We scarce need repeat how totally different from all tljis is the 
action of fermented wine. It gives comparatively little nourish- 
ment to the human body, for most of its nourishing portion has been 
destroyed. It causes the most intense excitement — even to in- 
sanity — and we all know of the infernal deHghts which it excites ; of 
the perverted appetite which is not satisfied, as in the case of 
healthy articles, with a regular supply, but demands an increase 
until drunkenness or other forms of disease ensue. We are all fami- 
liar with the fearful diseases which it causes — the drunkenness, 
insanity, delirium tremens^ gout, etc. Surely, we must lay aside 
our common sense, and close our eyes, ears, and nostrils to what 
we see, hear and smell around us, before we can even begin to 
justify the use of fermented wine, for any purpose, except as a 
medicine, as we use other poisons. 

New Churchmen, who have erroneously thought the Word 
favored moderate drinking of fermented wine as innocent and 
useful may be aided in accepting the truth upon this subject, by 
reflecting that while Christendom has for eighteen hundred years 
believed the Word taught there were no marriages in heaven, 
Swedenborg shows that the Word really teaches that there are 
marriages in heaven. The change from what has been accepted 
as the teaching of the Word to its real teaching is, to say the 
least, not as great in the case of wine as in that of marriage, for a 
p£rtient and careful examination of the letter of the Sacred Scrip- 



ilS FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

tures in the original languages in which they were written, has 
satisfied many of the ablest scholars of the age, and among them 
the late Professor George Bush, that the good wine of the Word, 
which is a blessing is always unfermented wine, and never fer- 
mented wine, as we have abundantly shown in preceding pages. 

A writer in the JVera Jerusalem Magazine^ in criticizing one of 
the editorials which has been noticed in this work, says : 

" Pharaoh's butler, in his dream, took the grapes and pressed 
them into Pharaoh's cup, and gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand. 
Liquor thus obtained and drank could not be fermented ; yet in 
the A. C. 5120, it is regarded as wine, and in th6 early part of 
the number it is so called. 

"Whpn treating of the first-fruits which were to be offered to 
the Lord, Swedenborg says (A. C. 9223) : 'The first-fruits of the 
vintage were the first-fruits of wine, of must, and of oil.' Wincy 
here, certainly excludes unfermented grape juice. But a little 
further on he says : 'By the first-fruits of corn and wine in this 
verse, are meant all the first-fruits of the harvest and vintage 
just now spoken of above.' Here wine most certainly includes 
all the meaning of wine and must in the former sentence. It 
proves, also, that whenever he speaks of the first-fruits of wine, 
he means the term to include all forms of grape juice, unless 
other terms are used." 

The above writer, in the sentence which has been placed in 
italics, makes an admission v/hich facts did not require him to 
make, and his construction is directly contradicted by Sweden- 
borg in the next quotation which he makes, and the writer seems 
to be aware of his mistake, but apparently he does not see how 
he can correct it. As we have seen, fermented wine, or wine 
polluted by ferment, is never the fruit of the vintage, but is pro- 
duced by leaven or ferment, whereas wine which resulted firom 
boiling the sweet must until it would keep, as was so generally 
practised by the ancients as we have seen, was in every respect 
the fi:iiit of the vintage, for it contained nothing but what was pro- 
duced by the vine ; it was strictly unfermented wine — and among 
the first-f.uits of the vintage, for it was boiled before fermentation 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CfHURCH. 2i^ 

had commenced, and, as we have seen, it was the wine par excel- 
lence of the ancients. 

The Rev. C. H. Fowler, in his excellent work on " The Wines 
of the Bible," says : 

" Let me give you for a moment an inside look. Here is a 
young man, gentle, cultured, with his nerves on the surface and 
his heart in his hand and his soul in his eye, pushes within the 
reach of this great charmer. It may be in your house on New 
Year's day he takes his first taste. He finds that that did not 
kill him; he tries it again; he is pressed with work ; he drinks 
to strengthen himself, and soon the old story is repeated over in 
his case — friendless, homeless, ragged, blear-eyed, bloated, 
oozing, staggering, creaking in every joint, covered with filth, 
making his way down to death. That is one process. There is 
an army of nearly two millions of cases like this. Nearly one 
hundred thousand annually drop into a drunkard's grave. But 
that is not all. Go to that home; what is the process there? 
The wife is as gentle as any woman in the land, trained with 
the utmost care, never has known what it* is to feel the pressure 
of any need, goes out into that home ; soon she finds that there 
is a shadow by the door. She shudders ; she is anxious. Late 
hours when the husband comes home alarm her ; she smells 
liis breath ; she misses the accustomed luxuries ; ornaments 
cease to come in, the old ornaments by and by move out ; the 
• spoons are sold and gone ; the forks follow ; one article after 
another vanishes ; the Bible goes, the fence is broken down, the 
windows are broken out, the gate falls off, the sidewalk is torn 
up — it is shabby and wretched ; then, somebody else wairits even 
this house, dnd the one in the alley is cheaper, and they move 
into the alley. Now go in. No furniture but a bench ; no fire, 
and it is winter, and the children are huddled together trying to 
keep warm. The father comes in only half- drunk, mad for 
more liquor ; abuses the woman he had sworn to protect ; the 
children cower in the corner, and the last words they hear are 
the oaths of their father, and the last sight they see is the pale 
and patient face of the mother. Her friends have left her long 



220 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

ago, lost. sight of her; she has dropped out of social life ; she 
has almost forgotten the girls she knew when she was a girl ; 
there she is ! In the mom the father is gone, and the children 
see her cold face clotted with her blood. That is the work of 
this monster. 

"You may take any one of the great army of haggard women that 
groan and stagger on without hope under the load of shame and 
in the grip of perpetual want ; or any one of the great multitude 
of cliildren worse than orphans, inheriting a bondage of disease 
and corruption, bred in alleys, dandled in the lap of sin, trained 
to crime, and doomed to ignorance and infamy ; you may take 
any one of these human tatters, torn loose from all social re- 
straints and left tp flutter in the gales of passion and bum in the 
fires of delirium, and I will stake this case for the condemnation 
of this hoary infinite evil at the bar of eternal justice upon a 
single sigh or sob from any one of this great host of victims. 
If sentence against this monster was not instantaneous and over- 
whelming in the light of human thought, the good Christ would 
be shut up to open and almighty war for the capture and puri- 
fication of the etemal throne. It is not thinkable that God can 
either approve these crimes or stand idly by in this great cpnflict." 

We appeal to you, dear brethren and sisters of the New 
Church, who see the truth upon this subject, to arise and let your 
light shine ; to combine or organize and exert your utmost power, 
looking to the Lord for strength and wisdom, to overthrow this 
fearful evil, which is destroying the bright prospects of the young, 
and making so many homes desolate, and destroying the germs 
of heavenly life in so many spuls. 

It is surely high time that the members of the New Church 
in this country should follow the example of their brethren in 
Great Britain, and muster their forces for a conflict with the 
fearful evil of wine, beer, and whisky-drinking. Our people 
here should not be behind the New Church people m England 
and Scotland in perceiving this evil, and desiring to rid the New \ 
Church of all responsibility for its continuance among us. Many 
believe, with the wnteir, that the Word of the Lord, the wntings 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. ' 221 

of the Church, and the laws Of natural life and health all dearly 
require them to abstain themselves, and to induce and encourage 
others to abstain from intoxicating drinks, and this duty they are 
ready to perform if a way to it is opened to them. A scattered 
multitude cannot drive from its citadel an enemy so strongly for- 
tified by social custom, and sustained by confirmed habit, as this 
is. For successful opposition to this giant evil, both silept con- 
viction and isolated action will continue to be insufficient;. 

'What thiey have done in Great Britain we need tordo here — : 
that is, to organize our Bands of Hope in our Churches, and then 
our G(^neral Conference ; arid we especially need to interest' 
our young people in this great work of the Church, and thus 
strive to lead them into a life of shunning evils' as sins against 
the Lord, and to labor for the welfare of others. This workj" 
in order to be made fully successful, must be a work of the 
New Church. It will help our young people to remain in the 
Church, by giving them something to do, not only for those in' 
the Church, but also for those around them outside of the Church ; 
and thus by showing them that the Church is a living, working 
organization, and that it will save mariy of them and others from 
ruin, it will lead them to feel that the Church is really an ark off 
safety. : " - - v 

We also need that our periodicals should be renovated, so that 
they can enter our homes laden witb the truths of our Lord's 
New Church, without countenancing, or excusing or encouraging- 
the use of intoxicating drinks ; and so that they will assail, without 
fear or favor, the various* dreadfuh evils which are both physically 
and spiritually so destructive to the human race, instead of: 
being either silent or direcdy opposing needed reforms. Such, 
periodicals would command the respect of the multitude of men: 
and women, who, belonging to no Church organization, are 
strivmg to shun such evils, and favorably impress them toward: 
the new doctrines. Such periodicals would enter the. drunkard's' 
home, conveying wholesome words of warning to the eviUdoer; 
and of hope to the worse than widowed wife and fatherless chil- 
drdvencouraging them to beartheir great sorrow^^unsiirpassed' 



Z?| FINAL APPEAL TO THE M^N ANP 

by any on earth — ^with Christian patience and fortitude^ apd tp 
look to the Lord for help and strength. But send a paper or 
periodical which either advocates, or excuses and justifies, and 
thereby encourages the use of fermented wines and other drinks 
of an intoxicating nature, how different the result; only the 
tippler and confirmed drunkard in the family will be attracted to 
such a paper, and to .the Church whose doctrines it advocates.. 
To the poor, broken-hearted, crushed mother, who is suffering 
mentally and physicajly, as only the wife of a drunkard can 
suffer, and who is struggling for life, and to feed and clothe her 
half-starved and ragged children, what consoUtipn or encourage- 
ment does it give to such ^ ne^dy one, §is she reads ancj. per- 
ceives that tJhie periodic^il encourages her children . to follow 
in the footsteps of their drunken father, by countenancing the 
drinking of feri:nented wipes and liquors — temperately, of course ? 
That which may encourage her children may encourage yours 
and mine, dear reader. Do you feel like taking such a fearful 
responsibility, kind parent ? 

We need also that our periodicals should, first of all, teach men, 
women and children what are the individual evils which are s;) 
destructive and injurious to pi^r race, both physipally and spiritur 
ally, and then to teach them to shun such evils as sins against 
God, and that to shun evils as .sins-agaijiist God is to do good ; 
it does good by placing the Lord always before us, and thus 
developing a sense of reverence for His pame. To shun the 
use of the drunkard*s cup, tobacco, opium, the habit of tight-, 
dressing, idleness, and the like manifold evils does good by pre- 
serving ourselves free from the physical and mental suffering aad 
disease which such indulgences and habits are capabje q£ causing, 
and thereby prolonging our lives and our sphere of usefulness, 
while we are in this world, and increasing our capacity and oppor- . 
tunity for good works. To shun such evils does even more good 
by the excellent example it sets before others, especially to chilr , 
dren and young men and maidens. 

Outside of \h^ surrounding churches of to-day is a vast multi- 
tu4e in a comparatively Gentile state, as the writer has frequentiy 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. i i 3 

intimated, and here it would seem is our field for missionary labor, 
and it is "white and ready for the harvest." The printed page, 
especially in the form of a periodical, is an efficient, cheap, and 
quiet missionary, and it excites little combat and jealousy. If 
our periodicals were made interesting by items of news, discovery, 
the arts, and especially if they were to lead, as they .should, tp 
interest aU in the great reforms of the new age, by presenting 
spiritual motives, as well as natural, they would command th^ 
respect and support of many who do not now belong to the New 
Church ; and primarily, if they contained the choice extracts from 
the Writings of Swedenborg, the pithy comments of many of the 
collateral writings of the Church, and if they were to avoid aJ^l 
merely speculative articles upon impracticable subje<as,' such per- 
iodicals would quickly lead many to attend our Churches, and to 
read the Writings of Swedenborg, and thus come into the light of 
the New Jerusalem. 

Has ^he Church any more important aims than these, alike to 
promulgate her doctrines, and to protect her own members an<^ 
the young people from the direful evils which constantly sur- 
round' them? What better plan can be adopted, or one more 
likiely to attract the attention of those around us, who are striving 
to shun evils, and 'who inwardly desire to live a pure and good 
life, and are therefore good ground for the seedsman ? 

Our periodicals should be worthy of our glorious cause, and a 
credit to the New Church now being built up, by leading in every 
good work. A true faith is important, but a good, useful an4 
orderly life is surely not less necessary. The two must be 
united, and such principles should be upheld . strongly and un- 
compromisingly by our periodicals, for their existence on any 
other foundation will surely bring them to a faU, sooner or later, 
and deservedly so, for religion is of the Life. Our teachers and 
writers, and especially our periodicals, in order that they pay com- 
Jnand the respect of the men of the incoming age, must point out 
the individual evils which are so injurious and destructive to oujr 
race, openly proclaim that they are evils, and strive, to lead men 
to shun them as sins against God. A New Church periodical' 



224 FfNAL Appeal to the men and 

which fails to do this, at this day, has no legitimate excuse for a 
continued existence ; and especially some of our periodicals must 
cease to lend aid and comfort to the manufacturers, sellers, and 
drinkers of intoxicating liquors, or they need not expect to receive 
the patronage of the earnest men and women of the Church of 
the New Jerusalem. much longer. 

The Rev. Newman HaH, D. D., of London, gives statistics 
which show that, from the use of intoxicating dnvik^y ten thousand 
member^ are lost to the Christian Churches every year. 

We need not expect to overcome such a fearful' evil as wine- 
drinkitig in a community without a contest ; for in -the individual 
man, who has acquired a taste for this seductive fluid, it is a life- 
and-death struggle, and, if he escapes from a drunkard's grave, it 
is by a life-long warfare that he succeeds. 

Then, again, we have to remember, as the. Rev. Dr. Samson 
says : that, "when any change in popular customs is proposed j 
the sugg-estion for reform implies, first, that the common opinion 
is erroneous; second, that interests involved are imperiled; and, 
third, that conduct before unchallenged is censured. This three- 
fold difficulty is to be met and overcome.; pride of- intellectual 
oversight ; sacrifice of personal interest ; and admission of faults 
in practice. It is easy to make, in. general, the admission that 
no mind can have taken -in the whole field of truth; that no 
man is wholly firee from the promptings of self-interest ; and 
that no human being was 6ver perfect in life. It is hard, howi 
ever, to bring one's self up to th^ point where without prejudice^ 
selfishness or preference, the rule of newly discovered truths duty 
and Christian humility can be made dominant. If this be hfird 
to attain in minds specially thoughtful and conscientious, it is yet 
harder to bring a community, or an age^ up to the full spirit of 
reform. There has never been a great reform in social habits^ ia 
politics, in morals, or in religion, that has not required many 
generations to make /the new view and new life thorough and 
pervasive." i . 

If we laymen consider , how these things. cannot help but 
influence, the clergy, we shaU- be kept from two mistakes — from 



WOMEN OF THE :NEW CHURCH. 225 

expecting too much assistance from them in this struggle against 
the fearful evil of wine and whisky-drinking, and consequent 
intemperance, and also from unjust and harsh criticism concern- 
ing them. Some are in ignorance, because they are still bound 
in the forms, ceremonies and falsities of a consummated Church, 
so that they see not the light of the New Jerusalem that shines 
around them ; others are reading and pondering, and opening 
their hearts to these great truths ; and a few, we are happy to 
say, are in full accord with us in helping on this needful reform, 
both by their example and teaching j and the number of these 
is sure to increase. 

We should remember, too, that great reforms have rarely com- 
menced with tlie clergy, for they are generally conservative and 
wedded to prevailing views, if not confirmed therein. Abraham, 
the called-of-the-Lord, was not a clergyman. The disciples, who 
followed the Lord when on earth, were not chosen from the 
Jewish priesthood. Emanuel Swedenborg, the herald of the Ne^v 
Dispensation from God to man, was not chosen from the Chris- 
tian priesthood. Wilberforce and Garrison, the leaders of the army 
of freedom against slavery, were not clergymen. Moses, the chosen 
leader of the children of Israel, was not a clergyman ; but Aaron, 
whom Moses withstood, and whose idolatrous calf he ground to 
pieces, was already chosen the Jligh Priest of the Church ; yet it 
was only as Aaron and Hur held up the hands of Moses that Israel 
was able to overcome Amalek (Ex. xvii. 12), and the priests bear- 
ing the Ark entered first of all into the Promised Land (Josh. iii. 
15). So that even though the clergy may not lead, at first, in the 
warfare against such external evils as we have been considering, 
yet we require their support, and in due time we shall have it. It 
is their province to lead in good works and minister in holy ordi- 
nances, and so we hope and believe it will be with our own ministers 
whom we honor and love for the sake of their office. When the 
battle has fairly begun, and the clergy, seeing the truth and freed 
from their old prejudices, shall have taken their proper place among 
the leaders of the Lord's host in its conflicts with tliose evils which 
are destroying the bodies and souls of men ; then, then, indeed, the 



226 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

victory will be assured. Then the Church of God, a well-marshalled 
army, fighting in solid phalanx on the side of truth and love, of 
justice and mercy, of temperance in ail good uses and total absti- 
nence from all evil uses, shall go on from victory to victory, till the 
drinking of fermented wine and whisky is forever banished from 
the Church and the world. 

No man or soldier ever enlisted in a more noble or more 
worthy cause than this. The enslavement of man by his fellow- 
man is bad enough, but it is only natural slavery after all, for the 
slave is free to will and to think right ; and if he is so restrained 
that he cannot always do what he believes to be right, it is not his 
fault. His understanding may be unclouded by his bondage, 
and his will left free ; but oh ! how different from all this, how 
much more fearful is the slavery which results from the use of 
intoxicating drinks, where the strongest will is powerless and the 
clearest intellect is clouded until the truth cannot be recognized, 
or if seen h denied. 

Go, kind reader, as the writer has done, to the bedside of men 
of naturally strong wills and clear intellects, as they are recover- 
ing from an attack of delirium tremens , and behold the utter 
desolation of the poor slaves, and the despair with which they 
look forward to the future, then answer if African slavery was not 
tame when compared with the wild, mad slavery which results 
from the indulgence of fermented liquors. A very intelligent 
man whom the writer had just attended during an attack of this 
disease, was asked to gi^e a history of his connection with intoxi- 
cating drinks. He replied that when a young man he found that 
he was getting too fond of such stimulants, and he resolved to 
abandon them forever, and for fifteen years he never tasted them. 
In the meantime he married, and became the father of several 
children. One evening when he and his wife were visiting some 
fnends, the lady of the house passed around some fermented 
wine, and invited him to take a glass. " For the first time within 
fifteen years," he said, "I was seriously tempted to drink. I 
turned to my wife, and asked her if I should take a glass ; she 
replied that she did not think one glass would hurt me-j but that 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. "217 

one glass was my ruin. My old appetite returned with renewed 
strength, and you know the result." Alas, poor man ! The 
writer knew but too well the sad results which had flowed to him 
and his distressed wife and children from that one glass of fer- 
mented wine, presented by a lady friend ; for during one attack of 
delirium tremens, in an attempt to escape from imaginary foes, 
he attempted to kill himself, by springing with all of his strengjth 
and jamming his head against a door-frame, laying his scalp open 
for several inches ; and on another occasion he was insane for 
several weeks after an attack. Little did that lady dream of the 
dreadful injury she was doing her middle-aged guest by presenting 
him with a glass of wine ; little does any lady know of the harm 
she may do to any one, especially to the young, when she presents 
this seductive fluid to their lips. Let us all remember the words 
of Holy Writ : " Woe to him that giveth his neighbor drink ; and 
puttest thy bottle to him." 

And now, dear brethren, and sisters of the New Church, we 
have seen that the Word of the Lord, as translated by Emanuel 
Swedenborg, teaches that a " drink that maketh drunken " is 
unholy and unclean, and we know that fermented wine will cause 
drunkenness ; we are taught in the writings of the Church that 
all substances which are poisonous and will harm and kill men, 
have their origin from hell, and we know that fermented wine 
has in all ages done this and is doing it to-day all around us ; and 
Swedenborg actually compares such wine as causes drunkenness 
to falses from evil, as we have seen ; and even the Academy of 
the New Church claims (see Words for the New Church, vol. VII. 
page 133) to have seen that it consequently corresponds to falses 
from evil, which is undoubtedly correct, for it produces natural 
drunkenness and insanity, as falses from evil do spiritual drunken- 
ness and insanity ; it must therefore correspond to such falses. We 
are clearly taught by the sciences of this day that the use of fer^ 
mented wine is not only entirely unnecessary during health, but 
also that it tends to pollute, disease, and destroy the material body, 
and to cause the most fearful mental perversions, not unfrequently 
even to insanity ; knowing all this, as many of us certainly do, 



22S FINAL APPEAL TO THE NEW CHURCH. 

can we consistently — conscientiously if you please — continue to 
partake of leavened or fermented Avine in the most holy ordinance 
of the Lord's Supper ? Some of us we know have not unfre- 
quently felt that it was almost, if not quite, a profanation to par- 
take of such a fluid, and have even absented ourselves from the 
Lord's Table, for this reason. Now is such a course right, 
and have we done our duty? Have we requested the societies 
to which we belong to furnish unfermented wine for such mem- 
bers as have conscientious scruples against using fermented wine ? 
If we have not done this, should we not do so before absent- 
ing ourselves from this most needed ordinance ? As members of 
societies, we have rights which our brethren are bound to respect ; 
and we should remember that they have rights which we are 
equally bound to respect. Those who conscientiously desire to 
use fermented wine should certainly have the privilege of doing 
so. The freedom we desire for ourselves we should cheerfully 
grant to others in the bonds of charity, for in no other way can 
unity be preserved in the Church. " In certainty, unity ; in 
doubt, liberty ; in all things, charity." 

In concluding this work, the writer desires to repeat that it is 
his settled conviction that very litde real abiding headway can be 
made against tlie present drinking habits, and the consequent 
drunkenness which exists around us, until fermented wine is ban- 
ished from the communion tables in our Churches ; for its pres- 
ence there, especially its exclusive presence, gives it character 
and credit everywhere where the influence of the Churches 
which use it is felt. The use of fermented wine as communion 
wine is a fearful evil and source of "woe " to the New Church, a 
cruel injury to some of its members, an injustice to others, a temp- 
tation to the young, and a stumbling-block to multitudes who 
otherwise might be attracted to the Church by our beautiful and 
rational doctrines, which have descended from the Lord out of 
heaven to purify, heal, and bless the nations of the earth. Let 
us never rest until this evil is put away from the Church. 



P^«-^»^^v"^v^»^^M^^H^n 



^ 



ti^'-^iy , 



iiiiilH^ 

I 3 2044 018 743 195 



THE BORROWER WILL BE CHARGED 
AN OVERDUE FEE IF THIS BOOK IS NOT 
RETURNED TO THE LIBRARY ON OR 
BEFORE THE LAST DATE STAMPED 
BELOW. NON-RECEIPT OF OVERDUE 
NOTICES DOES NOT EXEMPT THE 
BORROVtTR FROM OVERDUE FEES, 





< 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



LIBRARY 

OF THE 

University of California. 

GIKT OF 

CALIFORNIA WINE MAKERS' CORPORATION 
Accession 9 1 1 38 Class 






*-i.3 




I 



I 



/ViV 




NEW DISPENSATION. 



' BY 

JOHN ELLIS, M.D., 

AUTHOR OF "THE AVOIDABLE CAUSES OV DISEASE, INSANITY, AND 

DEFORMITY," " AN ADDRESS TO THE CLERGY," "SKEPTICISM AND 

DIVINE REVELATION," " PURE WINE, FERMENTED WINE." ETC. 



"Musi signifies the same as iviney viz., truth derived from 
the good of charity and love.'^ ^^ Falses from evil may be 
compared to such wine and strong'drinks as induce drunk- 
enness.^' — EMANilfitj^iWjJi^NBrHic's A. E. (695 and 1035). 





NEW YORK: 
PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR 
1882. • 




THE 

</ 6 



WINE QUESTION 



IN THE LIGHT OF THE 



NEW DISPENSATION. 




BY 

JOHN ELLIS, M.D., 
n 

AUTHOR OF "THE AVOIDABLE CAUSES OF DISEASE, INSANITY, AND 

DEFORMITY," "AN ADDRESS TO THE CLERGY," "SKEFTICISxM AND 

DIVINE REVELATION," " PURE WINE, FERMENTED WINE." ETC. 



^ Must signifies the same as wine, viz., truth derived from 
the good of charity and love" *^Falses from evil may be 
compared to such wine and strong drinks as induce drunk" 
enness:^ — ^Emanuel Swedenborg's A. E. (695 and 1035). 




NEW ¥6RKt 



PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR. 



61^^^ 



V/ 



The Author has not obtained a " Copyrtghlt" on this 
book. It is therefore free to OIL He has written it with 
no expectation of making money ; it has been electrotyfied, 
and if any one, for any purpose, desires to print an edition 
of not less than one thousand volumes, the author will 
cheerfully give the use of his plates, for he has had but one 
desire in publishing it, and that is to benefit his fellow-man. 



^ 



CONTENTS. 



Kge 
PREFACE, , . . . • . . ... 5-8 

CHAPTER I. ' 

PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING UPON THE SUBJECT OF 
INTOXICATING DRINKS. 

Does Alcohol Correspond to Faith Alone ? , • « « , 9~20 
CHAPTER II. 

IS ALCOHOL A POISON ? 

Consequently is Fermented Wine; owing to the Presence of Alcohol, 
also a Poison ? — Is it Wrong for a New Churchman to Teach that 
Fermented Wine and other Intoxicating Liquids are Poisons? — 
Moderation Fallacy— Action of Alcohol on the Mind, • 21-37 

CHAPTER III. 

TWO KINDS OF WINE RECOGNIZED IN THE WORD OF THE LORD 
AND IN THE WRITINGS OF THE NEW CHURCH. 

One Kind*Unfermented and Unintoxicating, and the Other Fermented, 

or Leavened, and Intoxicating, • • •• • • 3S-44 

CHAPTER IV. 

TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, TWO KINDS OF MUST, AND TWO KINDS OF 
WINE — ONE GOOD AND THE OTHER BAD. 

New Wine in Old feottles — ^Two Kinds of Strong Drink, . « 45-5^ 
CHAPTER V. 

WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

Ancient Methods of Preserving Wine, so as to Prevent Fermentation 
— Preserving Wine Unfermented by Boiling — Present Customs in 
Wine-Growing Countries — Preservation of Unfermented Wine by 
Evaporation to Comparative Dryness — Preserving Wine by Keep- 
ing Cool in Spnngs, Rivers, and Cisterns — Filtering Wine to 
Prevent Fermentation — Preservation of Wine by the use of Sweet 
Oil — Preservation of Wine by Fumigation — Modern Unfermented 
Wine, • • • tx 4 '4 rkX^ • f f • S9^^ 



«)l't3B 



4 CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER VI. PAGE 

DRUNKENNESS IN WINE-GROWING AND BEER-CONSUMING COUNTRIES. 

The Testimony of Residents and Travellers, .... 83-87 
CHAPTER Vn. 

THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER" AND INTOXICATING WINE. 

Faises from Evils — Intoxicating Wines and Strong Drinks, • 88-97 

"^ * * ^ C!HAPTER VIII. ' 

THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" AND THE WINE QUESTION. 

An Original Idea — Does Fermentation Prothice Unfermented Bread 

and Wine? ••..••••. 98-121 

' ' ' CHAPTER IX. 

** WORDS FOR THE NEW CHURCH" AND THE WINE AND "WHISKY" 

QUESTION. 

The " Academy of the New Church," as Represented by the Above 

Serial, . • • • • 122-14$ 

CHAPTER X. 

THE COMPARISONS OF EMANUEL SWEDENBORG. 

The Academy's Interpretations of the Same in its Serial, • 149-158 
CHAPTER XI. 

A NEW VIEW. 

Wine in the Most Ancient Church — ^Vinegar, . . r 159-164 

' CHAPTER XII. 

COMMUNION WINE. 

VfiSLQ Used by Our Lord and His Disciples in the Original Institution 
of the Sacrament of the Most Holy Supper — How shall we Pre- 
pare our Communion Wine, . • • . . , 165-192 

CHAPTER Xm. 

PROHIBITION. 

Opinion of Governor St. John, of Kansas — Swedenborg's Views, 193-200 
CHAPTER XIV. 

FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 

Swedenborg's Formula for Sacramental Bread, and His Ideas as to 
the Wine Used by the Lx)rd and His Disciples — Importance of 
Organizing — Our Periodicals Should be Renovated and Filled 
with New life — Great Reforms are Rarely Commenced by the 
Clorgy, i 4 i i ,' .' / .' .' . 201-228 



PREFACE. 



It is doubtless known to most New Church readers that the 
writer has published a tract on " Pure Wine — Fermented Wine, 
and other Alcoholic Drinks." This tract is still m print, and 
wiU be sent with pleasure to any reader of the Writings of 
Emanuel Swedenborg who has not seen it. The author 
has sent a copy of it to all whose names he has been able 
to obtain, and will continue to send it to such additional 
names as are forwarded to him, feeling tha,t in no other way 
can he do as much service for the cause of the New Church 
with his time and money, as in spreading a knowledge of the 
truth on this subject among the members of the Church, the 
receivers of its doctrines, and the readers of Swedenborg's works. 
A letter addressed to Dr. John Ellis, New York City, will be quite 
sure to reach him. He also desires that a copy of the present 
work should be found in the library of every New Church family 
in the land. He would rather not receive the names of those 
who are not readers, for the world outside of the recognized 
New Church is too wide for his limited means. It has been 
suggested that the tract on "PurQ Wine," etc., would be a 
good tract to send to the clergymen of the various denomi- 
nations to invite their attention, not only to the cause of 
Temperance, but also to that of the New Church. But the 
writer does not feel that that tract is exactly adapted for 
this purpose, owing to the controversial character of some 
parts of it ; and he does not desire to publish to the outside 



6 PREFACE. 

world, that so many of his New Church brethem advocate and jus- 
tify the use of intoxicating drinks, and in this volume he pur- 
posely withholds the names of all sucfi, for he is sure that within a 
very few years they will thank him for having done so. But he 
fully recognizes the truth, that the light thrown on this subject 
by the Writings of Swedenborg, especially by the philosophy 
taught therein, and by the science of correspondences, is so 
clear, that the circulation of a suitable tract on this ques- 
tion cannot but be very useful in calling attention to the 
Writings, in which such clear views and insight into such a 
practical subject are to be found. Therefore, he hopes to prepare 
or cause to be prepared, at no very distant day, a tract for this 
purpose. Several articles have appeared in the New Jerusalem 
Magazine y and a lengthy review of the tract on the wine question 
in Words for the New Churchy all in opposition to the views set 
forth in our tract ; but in none of them, with but a single excep- 
tion, has any serious attempt been made to meet the question in 
accordance with the philosophy and science of correspondences, 
set forth in the writings of the New Church. The writers have 
relied on comparisons made by Swedenborg between spiritual 
conflicts in man's regeneration and the physical clarifica- 
tion of wine by fermentation ; and upon assumptions which have 
come down to us from the dark ages, unquestioned seriously, by 
New Church writers and teachers ; the latter apparently for- 
getting what the Lord said : "Behold, I make all things new." 
Fortunately, while New Churchmen have been, as it were, 
"asleep, many of the most intelligent men of the surrounding 
churches, observing the pernicious results which flow from the 
use of intoxicating drinks, have taken hold of this subject 
in sober earnestness. They have not only examined the Sa- 



PREFACE. 7 

.cred Scriptures in the original Janguslges in which they were 
written and have been preserved, to find what they actually 
teach upon this subject, but they also have diligently searched 
the ancient records of Bible lands, as well as the traditions and 
present usages ; until now a mass of testimony has been 
accumulated, which is completely overwhelming, and fully 
sustains the late Professor George Bush's testimony that there 
is nothing in the Sacred Scriptures which will justify the use 
of fermented wine as a beverage, and that the whole Christian 
world will be compelled, at no distant day, to come to this 
conclusion. When, a year or two ago, the writer, in re^ 
sponse to an article advocating the use of fermented wine in 
the New Jerusalem Messenger, alluded to the above testimony^ 
making quotations from ancient authors and recent writers, and 
calling attention to the fact that neither the philosophy of the 
New Church, the science of correspondences, nor the express 
teachings of Swedenborg, would justify the use of either fer- 
mented wine or other intoxicating drinks, a host of writers rushed 
to the rescue of intoxicating drinks, and the New Church periodi- 
cals, were plied with their communications ; the Messenger hastily 
closed the discussion, giving no opportunity for a reply to the 
assumptions and arguments of the advocates of fermented wine. 
The New Jerusalem Magazine, after admitting several articles jus- 
tifying the use of fermented wine, declined to admit any reply. 
When the tract on "Pure Wine — Fermented Wine, and other 
Intoxicating Drinks" made its appearance, the placid waters of 
the Academy of the New Church, as manifested in its serial,* 
Words Jor the New Church, yfOiQ moved to their very depths, as 
the reader will see from the quotations which we intend to make 
firom its pages. Well, the truth upon this momentous subject, so 



8 PREFACE. 

important to such vast multitudes of bur.people, and especially 
to every New Churchman, is abroad jtt iiie land. In this age of 
the printing-press it cannot be hid ; the truth is mighty, and will 
prevail, sooner or later, even though it is excluded from our 
present New Church periodicals. 

The writer will simply intimate to some of his reverend critics, 
tiiat among New Church laymen, and even among literary men 
outside of the New Church, to say nothing of other Christians, 
it is not regarded as either honorable, just, or right to criticise a 
work without first having carefully read it, and without paying 
some attention to the views of the author. It is manifest that if 
three of the critics who noticed the tract on "Pure Wine" had 
carefully read it, and had paid any attention to the ideas therein 
contained, or if they had even reasd. the two first words of the tide 
page understandingly, they never would have been guilty of the 
absurdity of triumphantly quoting passages firom the Word, and 
the writings of the Church, to prove that wine has a good cor- 
respondence and is usefiil, thus intimating that the writer had 
represented to ^e contrary— which was not true. 

The present volume has been written at irregular intervals, 
during a period when the writer has been overwhelmed with 
business and care. Many volumes treating upon the subject 
considered in this work have been carefully read, occupying 
spare moments on the cars and steamboats, as well as at home. 
Three small works have been read, and extracts selected from 
them since the first chapter was placed in the hands of the 
printer, and two of them were not even published at that time. 
Although this volume has been too long delayed, it has been 
published at the earliest moment practicable. 

New Yohk, October, i88i. 




THE WINE QUESTION 



IN THE 



LIGHT OF THE NEW DISPENSATION. 



CHAPTER I. 

TEJE PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING UPON THE SUBJECT 
OF INTOXICAXINQ DRINKS. 

^' It would be well for man," says Swedenborg, ''to prepare 
his food chiefly with reference to use ; for by so doing he would 
have for his object a sound mind in a sound body; whereas, 
when the taste is the chief thing attended to, the body thence 
becomes diseased at heart, inwardly languishes, and conse- 
quently also the mind, inasmuch asits state depends on the state 
of the recipient bodily parts, as seeing depends on the state of 
the eye ; hence the madness of supposing that all the delight of 
life, and what is commonly called the summum bonum, consists 
in luxury and pleasurable indulgences: hence also come dull- 
ness and stupidity in things which require thought and judg- 
ment, whilst the mind is' disposed only for the exertions of 
cunning respecting bodily and worldly things : hereby man ac- 
quires a similitude to a brute animal and therefore such persons 
are not improperly compared with brutes." (A. C. 8378.) 

"A mail cannot be conjoined to the Lord unless he be spiritual ; 
nor can he be spiritual unless he be rational ; nor rational unless 
his body be in a sound state : these things are like a house, the 
body is like the foundation, the rational principle is like the 



lO PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

superstructure, the spiritual principle like the things in the house, 
and conjunction with the Lord is like inhabitation." (D. L. W. 

33O') 

"All things created by the Lord are uses," says Swedenborg, 
and as to the' uses for nourishihg the body he says : " Uses 
created for the nourishment of the body are all things of the 
vegetable kingdom which are for meat and drink, as fruits, 
berries, seeds, pulse, and herbs ; and all things of the animal 
kingdom which are eaten, as oxen, cows, calveSj deer, sheep, 
kids, goate, lambs and their milk ; also fowls and fishes of maiiy 
kinds." 

" There are indeed many things which are not used by man ; 
but superfluity does not take away use, but causes uses to endure. 
There is also such a thing as abuse of uses ; but abuse does not 
take away use, as the falsification of truth does not take away 
truth, except only in those who are guilty of it." (D. L. W. 
331.) In other words, if a man eats or drinks any healthy 
article to e3:cess, so that it harms and is not useful to him, it does 
not follow that the same food or drink would not be usefiil tp 
him. who uses it properly. 

Thus far Swedenborg ha?, been speaking only of good an4 
useful articles for sustaining an(J nourishing the body, and of 
their legitimate use and abuse ; but he now comes to speak 
of a totally different class pf substances, or of "evil uses," of 
iwhich he says : ^ 

" Good uses are fi-om the Lord, and evil uses are from 
hell. Evil uses were, not created by the Lord, but that they 
originated together with hell. All goods which exist in act are 
called uses, and all ^vils ^hich exist in act are called uses, but 
the latter are called evil uses, and the former good uses. No^ 
as all goods are from the Lord, and all evils from hell, it 
follows, that no other than good uses were created by the 
Lord, and that evil uses originated from hell. By uses, which 
are treated of- in particular in this article, all things that ap- 
pear on earth, as animals of all kinds and vegetables of all 
kinds ; of both the latter and the former, those which furnish use 



UPON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. M. 

to man are from the Lord, and tho^e which do hurt to man aie. 
from hell." Among the evil uses referred to above he eniune-. 
rates : " Wild beasts of all kinds, as serpents, scorpions, dragons, 
crocodiles, tigers, wolves, foxes, swine, owls of different kinds, 
bats, rats and mice, frogs, locusts, spiders, and noxious insects of 
many kinds : hemlock and aconite, and all kinds of poison, as 
well in herbs as in earths ; in a word, all things that do hurt and 
kill men ; such things , in the hells appear to the life, just like 
those oh the earth and in it. It is said that they appear there, 
but still they are not there as on earth, for they are mere corres^ 
pondences of the lusts that spring from evil loves, and present 
themselves before others in such forms." (D. L. W. 339.) , 

Swedenborg again says: "The things that do hurt to a man 
are called uses, because they are oi use to the wicked to do evil, 
and because they contribute to absorb malignities, and thus also 
a^ remedies. Use is applied in both senses, like love ;. for we 
speak of good love and evil love, and love calls all that use 
which is done by itself." (D. L. W. 336.) 

So it will be clearly seen, from the aboVe quotations, that 
there are in the world substances which are gOod and useful as 
articles of food and drink, which in themselves always have a 
good correspondence — ^they are always good uses, for they are 
among the good gifts of God ; we may abuse them> but we can- 
not convert them into eVil uses — they are still good. So.it is 
equally clear, from the above quotations, that we have another 
class of substances, which, when used as food and drink, are 
always evil uses — evil in themselves, for they originate from he^U 
we are told; arid even though they may contain some materials 
which may nourish the body of man, as most poisonous vege- 
tables do, as a whole they are poisonous and injurious, and never 
in health can we use them without violating the laws of our 
being, and the plain philosophical teaching of the New Church. 
Can anything be clearer than this? Further on in this work it 
will be shown that fermented wine, whisky, and other intoxicating 
drinks are poisons ; and, consequently, that they are, according to 
the philosophy of the New Church, from hell. Of no other sub- 



12 PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

stance, or article ever used as drink or food have we such long con- 
tinued historical recOTds, both secular and sacred, showing that it 
harms and kills men when used as a beverage, as we have in the 
case of feraiented wine. 

How clear it is, that when Swedenborg says that:. '^Falses 
from evil may be compared to such wine and strong drinks as 
induce drunkenness," and Words for the New Church as- 
sures us that " comparisons when employed by Swedenborg are 
correspondences" — ^that the Academy's editors are correct, in 
this instance, at least — ^but, hereafter we shall show, whether this 
doctrine is to be accepted as true or, not, how far they come 
short of correctly applying it in another comparison which they 
have selected from Swedenborg's writings, to justify the use of 
fermented wine, whisky, and other intosdcating drinks. 

We repeat, in substance, that intoxicating drinksij even the 
single article of fermented wine, has hurt and killed more of the 
human family than all other poisons or evil uses pertaining to 
food and drink put together* It has done it more insidiously, 
more cruelly, and has perverted the passiotnsj mid appetites of 
men immeasurably more than aU other poisons. It has. caused 
more wretchedness,- poverty, domestic unhappiness, and crime 
than all other poisons put together* It so clearly belongs to the 
evil uses, which Swedenborg assures us have their origin froin 
hell, that it seems strange that any intelligent New Churchmaii 
should for a moment claim that fermented wine is a go<:xd a»d 
useful article to drink, when in health. In sidmess the chemical 
elements of fermented wine may be curative in rare instances. 
Chemistry shows conclusively that it is in no true sense the fruit of 
the vine ; that almost all of the organized substances contained 
in the juice of the grape have been either partially or totally de- 
stroyed, precipitated, changed, and perverted by leaven or fer- 
ment* Can an evil substance, Kke leaven, bring forth good 
fruit? But as several New Church writers have denied that 
fermented wine and alcohol are poisons, the author will consider 
this subject at length in the next chapter 



UPON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. 13 

Good, pure, clean water, the unfermented blood of the grape, 
wine or must, as it flows from the press, unfermented new and 
old wine, good sound wheat and other grains, suitable for human 
food, and fresh meal and flour made from the same, sweet un- 
leavened bread, good fresh mutton and beef , from healthy cattle, 
and many other wholesome articles not here enumerated, when 
used as drink and food, supply the wants of the human body and 
give substance and thus strength, without causing any unnatural 
excitement or depression, or any disease peculiar to the article 
used, however freely it may be taken, and without causing any 
unnatural appetite which other healthy articles will not satisfy, and 
without requiring to be taken in gradually increasing quantities 
to satisfy the appetite for them, and which therefore in their 
action are not seductive, are all good uses, according to the 
philosophy of Swedenborg, and always have a good signification 
and correspondence, and they are never evil or bad uses, and 
they never have a bad signification or correspondence. But 
tiiese good uses, as we have ahready intimated, may be abused, 
used to excess, or improperly used ; but abuse, excessive or im- 
proper use does not destroy them as good uses, and they are stijl 
good uses, and have a good signification and correspondence, 
however much their abuse may injure the individual misusing 
them. Their improper use, abuse, or excessive use may have a 
bad signification, but the substances themselves never have, for 
they are the good gifts of God, and always correspond to truths 
and good affections. Swedenborg sajrs : "As meats and drinks 
xedreate the natural life, so good affections and genuine truths 
corresponding to them recreate the spiritual life," (Swedenborg's 
Index to the A. C.) 

Oh the other hand, water contaminated by arsenic, copper, 
alcohol or other injurious substances, or which is dirty and filthy 
from the presence of substances capable of causing disease or 
injury when drank, fermenting must and new wine, and fermented 
new and old wine, owing to their either being or having been 
polluted by fermentation and its poisonous product (alcohol), 
unsound or decaying wheat and other grains, sour or mouldy 



14 PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

bread, diseased or putrid beef and mutton, henbane, opium, the 
deadly nightshade, tobacco and other poisonous plants, when 
used as drink and food are always evil uses, and have a bad sig- 
nification and correspondence, and are never good uses, and 
never have a good correspondence. Many of the above sub- 
stances possess in an eminent degree all the characteristics of 
poisons, as the writer has shown elsewhere. This is especially 
true of all fermented and alcoholic drinks, opium, and tobacco, 
for they cause diseases peculiar to the substance taken, their use 
develops an unnatural appetite which healthy food and drink will 
not satisfy, and which no other snbstance in nature will satisfy, 
and they require to be taken in gradually increasing quantities to 
satisfy the appetite for them until a quantity which would kill 
several men not addicted to their use, may be taken with im- 
punity by those who are accustomed to their use. 

The above poisonous substances, or evil uses, may be applied 
to. good purposes, and thus used, their use may, perhaps, have a 
good signification ; for we are told that, during the process of 
regeneration, evil spirits flow into man's evil inclinations and ex- 
cite them, and by so doing bring them before his mental vision, 
enabling him to see them, when, if he resists, overcomes and puts 
them away, such evil spirits have been useful to him ; so poisonous 
substances taken into the physical body will excite diseases similar 
to those they will cause when taken by the healthy, and thus bring 
such existing diseases into view, or make them manifest to that liv- 
ing force which is ever active to preserve the health of the body, 
and if the latter reacts, overcomes and puts away such diseases, 
a good use is performed by these poisonous substances. But 
such good uses do not change the inherent quality of either the 
evil spirits, or of the poisons, the. former are still evil and the 
latter are still poisonous. We should be careful and not con- 
found evil with good or the false with truth. Poisonous sub- 
stances, as food and drink, correspond to evils and falses, appro- 
priated and imbibed, and, therefore, however useful for the cure 
of diseases they should never be used by man during health. 



UPON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. IS 

Now, brethren of the New Church, you who advocate, justify^ 
and thus encourage the use of intoxicating or fermented wine, 
beer and distilled liquors, tobacco or opium, it is certainly diffi- 
cult to see how it is possible for you to overthrow this grand 
philosophy of the Church, so rational and beautiful, and which is 
so clearly sustained by the analogy which exists between the 
action of fermented wine, beer, and alcohol, on the body and 
mind, and falses from evil on the soul. Before you can sustain 
your views, the philosophy of good and evil uses, as laid down by 
Swedenborg and the science of correspondences, must be over- 
thrown, and his direct and positive comparison of feAnented 
wine to falses from evil must be set aside. 

If natural drunkenness corresponds to spiritual drunkenness, 
as it unquestionably does, is it not absolutely certain that the 
cause of natural drunkenness must correspond to the cause of 
spiritual drunkenness ? Is it not a universal law that like effects 
from like causes flow? *' Delirium in truths by falses is spiritual 
inebriation," "And they who falsify the. Word are spiritually iur 
ebriated." (A. E. 887.) 

"That to be drunk signifies to be insane in spiritual things 
from the falses of evil." (Swedenborg*s Index to the A. E.) 

Can anything be clearer than that such wine and strong drink 
as cause natural drunkenness correspond to falses from evil, 
which cause the- spiritual inebriation or insanity to which natural 
drunkenness corresponds ? > . 

There is but one substance in nature that causes natural 
drunkenness, and that is alcohol wherever found, be it in whisky, 
fermented wine or beer — it therefore corresponds to the falsifica- 
tion of the Word from evil. 

DOES ALCOHOL CORRESPOND TO FAITH ALONE? 

It has been thought by some that distilled spirits, or alcohol, 
^XHTesponds to faith alone ; but that this is not correct is mani- 
fest, for fermentation destroys substances in the wine, which cor- 
respond to good, and even pollutes the water which corresponds 
t6 truth, with its own vile product, alcohol ; and even the de- 



l6 PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

lightful aroma of the natural wine is perverted into the flavor of 
alcohol ; and the whole fluid, as to taste, smell, and appearance is 
changed, until there is simply a semblance of the original fluid. 
The separation of the alcohol from fermented wine by distillation 
may be compared with, and unquestionably corresponds to, the 
separation of all the appearances and semblances of truth, in the 
mind of the evil man before he goes to his final home in the 
spiritual world, when his falses are fully in harmony with his evils 
— in other words are pure falses — ^falses from evil. This view is 
abundantly sustained by the testimony of Swedenborg, for he de- 
clared tliat whisky was a pernicious drink, and that the immoderate 
use of spiritous liquors would be the downfall of the. Swedish 
people ; and he compares, as we shall see, such wine and strong 
drink as will cause drunkenness to falses from evil. 

But we are often guilty of separating what God has joined tOr 
gether for the sustenance of the material body, which unquestion- 
ably corresponds to the separation of faith from charity, for it is 
a natural result that spiritual perversions should ultimate them- 
selves in natural perversions. As we have seen, the philosophy 
of the New Church teaches us that natural substances which sus- 
tain the body, correspond to goodness and truth which sustain 
the spirit ; and, of course, the perversions of the former must cor- 
respond to the perversion^ of the latter ; and we shall see that all 
of the efiects of the naturd perversions correspond to the effects 
of the spiritual perversions. The light and heat of the sun flow 
down to man as one vitalizing power ; but separate the light from 
the heat by blinds and curtains, in a very slight degree, in rooms 
where women and children dwell, and the effects are soon mani- 
fest, which are not exactly in the line of active diseases which 
result from any poisonous substance, but rather show want or star- 
vation ; the eyes become weak and are often troubled with symp- 
toms of amaurosis or paralysis of the optic nerve, which result 
from the want of light, the blood becomes thin and watery, and 
the skin puts on a pale and lifeless appearance and the whole 
body languishes for the want of light, but no specific disease re- 
sults from this cause ; although it is true that the individual thi^ 



UPON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. I? 

, deprived of light is more susceptible to the action of any prevailing 
cause of disease than those who are accustomed to the fiill light 
of day. Even the beneficent sunlight may be perverted by a 
lense until it will destroy the eyes and bum the body. 

Take new wine, or the unfermented juice of the grape. If we 
were to separate the water and sugar firom the albumen and other 
substances contained therein, they would still be good and use- 
ful substances and not poisons, but as while a man might live on 
the expressed juice of the grape he would starve to death on 
such separate fluid, for it would not contain all the substances 
necessary to nourish the structures of the body ; so the spirit of man 
cannot live upon truth alone and the delight which flows there- 
from ; his affections must be nourished. The correspondence 
which exists in every particular is wonderful ! Although alcohol 
is the result of the absolute perversion and destruction of sugar 
by fermentation, yet take only the pure sugar and water firom the 
new wine and the sugar will never ferment, for fermentation al- 
ways commences in the gluten which nourishes the body as good 
does the soul, and from thence extends to the sugar. So before' 
falses can seriously pervert the understanding the affections 
must be perverted ; and when a man, to justify the unlawful grati- 
fication of his appetites and passions, searches the Word and 
the Writings, and perverts the truths therein from their true mean- 
ing, and thus makes evils allowable to him, Jie becomes a spiritual 
drunkard, as,Swedenborg tells us ; and if the evil justified is the 
use of intoxicating drinks, he is very liable, as we all know, to 
become a natural drunkard :when the destruction and wreck of 
heavenly and natural life are complete. New Churchmen will 
do well to carefully consider this whole subject in the light of 
correspondences ; and if, first laying aside preconceived opinions, 
they will do this, they cannot well mistake the truth and their duty. 
There is another habit of separating what God has joined 
together for human sustenance and food, which is well worthy of 
our most serious consideration. We allow the miller to take 
wheat, that noblest of all grains for human food, which contains 
all of the materials required to nourish the human body, per- 



'.iS PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

. haps more perfectly than any other substance — ^and bolt it with^ 
the utmost care, and to cast away in the form of shorts and 
bran most of the gluten, phosphates, etc., required to give 
substance and strength to the body, reserving simply the super- 
fine floiu:, composed principally of starch, which is analogous 
to sugar and easily converted into sugar, and is, like the latter, 
useful to warm the body, and indirectly to produce fat when used 
as food. Now, this superfine flotu: is not a poison, and causes no 
specific disease peculiar to itself when used, although dyspepsia 
firequently results from its use, but it is owing to excess and not 
to quality ; for starch, like sugar, must be converted or rather per- 
verted by leaven into alcohol before it becomes a poison, or is 
capable of causing drunkenness. If the stomach is filled with 
starch when it should have a due proportion of other food, we 
can readily understand why, from such excess, indigestion results. 
This separation, as far as is practicable, of starch from the por- 
tion of j:he wheat which nourishes the bones, muscles, brain, etc., 
and the attempt to live on superfine flour alone, may be compared 
to the separation of faith from charity, and the attempt to build up 
a heavenly life by faith alone ; and it is unquestionably one of the 
perversions of a consummated Chiurch, and the most fearful con- 
sequences follow, but not directly in the line of disease, for starch 
is not, as we have said, a poison ; but bread inters so largely into 
the food, especially of the young, that when children use bread from 
superfine flour, and fill their stomachs with such brq^, the most 
important structures of their bodies are actually starved ; and they 
would starve to death, were it not for the milk, potatoes, etc., 
which they eat in addition to such bread ; and, as it is, they are 
often half-starved. The bones, with children thus fed, do not 
obtain the nourishment they need, and therefore such children are 
often troubled with bowing and other deformities of the legs, their 
spines are not unfrequently crooked, their jaws imperfectly devel- 
oped, consequently their teeth are crowded, and the teeth with 
many children are so imperfectly developed that they decay and 
are often lost during childhood and youth, instead of lasting dur- 
ing life as they manifestly should, and would if men were living 



Xn»ON THE SUBJECT OF INTOXICATING DRINKS. 19 

an orderly life. The muscles are thin and flabby, and therefore 
lack strength ; the brain is not duly nourished, consequently in- 
stead of mental strength, the mind is irritable, peevish and dissat- 
isfied. The child may be fat, for starch, as has been intimated, 
may contribute to that end, when other structures are half-starved. 

A writer in The Nineteenth Century says, in regard to white or 
brown bread : "The earliest agitator in the matter observed two 
years ago, when travelling in Sicily, that the laboring classes there 
live healthily and work well upon a vegetable diet, the staple arti- 
cle of which is bread made of well ground wheat-meal. Nor are 
the Sicilians by any means the only people so supported. *The 
Hindus of the Northwestern Province can walk fifty or sixty miles 
a day with no other food than chapatties, made of the whole 
meal, with a little ghee or Galam butter.' Turkish and Arab 
porters, capable of Canying burdens of from four hundred to six 
hundred pounds, live on bread only, with the occasional addition 
of fiiiit and vegetables. The Spartans and Romans of old time 
lived their vigorous lives on bread made of wheaten meal. In 
Northern, as well as Southern climates, we find the same thing. 
In Russia, Sweden, Scotland, and elsewhere, the poor live chiefly 
on bread, always made from some whole meal — ^wheat, oats oi" 
rye — ^and the peasantry, of whatever climate, so fed, always com- 
pare favorably with our South English poor, who, in conditions of 
indigence precluding them from obtaining sufficient meat food, 
starve, if not to death, at least into sickliness, on the white bread 
it is our modem English habit to prefer. White bread alone 
will not support animal life. Bread made of the whole grain will. 
The experiment has been tried in France by Magendie. Dogs 
were the subjects of the trial, and every care was taken to equal- 
ize all the other conditions — to proportion the quantity of food 
given in each case to the weight of the animal experimented upon, 
and so forth. The result was sufficiently marked. At the end of 
forty days the dogs fed solely on white bread died. The dogs 
fed on bread made of the whole grain remained vigorous, healthy, 
and well nourished." 

When the light and life of the New Jerusalem begin to be 



20 PHILOSOPHY OF THE NEW CHURCH BEARING 

truly received by men, and to influence their lives, not only will 
such poisonous substances as intoxicating drinks, tobacco, and 
opium, which, according to the philosophy of the New Church, 
have their origin from hell, and not from the Lord, cease to be 
used by healthy men, but also such miserable shams as dark rooms, 
small waists, and superfine flour will disappear forever. Are not 
evils which result from perverted appetites and vanity, and which 
are the cause of deformity, disease, insanity, the most intense suffer- 
ing, poverty, drunkenness, crime, and the premature death of such 
vast multitudes of our race, of sufficient moment to require the 
attention of our New Church clergy and periodicals ? To shun 
such evils as sins against God would seem to be the first duty of 
every one who is thus transgressing His laws; but is it not 
the paramount duty of the teacher of public and private morals 
to shun them as sins, and to make every effort in his power to 
destroy the cause of evil? And since divine things with the 
people are provided by the Lord through the clergy and the press, 
are the clergy doing their duty when they either ignore or directly 
countenance the use of intoxicating liquors as beverages ? 

Turning to a recent number of the Messenger, a periodical of 
the New Church, the writer finds not the slightest allusion to any 
of the above evils, but he does find, under the head of " Essays," 
a lengthy article on ; " The Relation of Ministers to the Organiza- 
tion of the Church," with the promise of. three more articles or 
installments of the same essay in succeeding numbers of the paper. 
Well, this reminds the writer of a story, as his old fiiend Dr. 
Douglas used to say. A man, from advancing years and the in- 
firmities which old age sometimes brings, had become somewhat 
childish and so feeble as not to feel able to attend church. On 
a very pleasant day, feeling unusually well, he determined to attend. 
On his return from church, he was asked how he liked the 
minister and the sermon. With great enthusiasm he replied that 
the minister was a wonderful man, and his sermon was the finest 
sermon he had ever heard, so learned, useful, and so eloquendy 
delivered. Well, inquired his fiiend, what was the subject of his 
discourse : "Why," he replied, " It was all about his salary." 



CHAPTER II. 

IS ALCOHOL A POISON ? — CONSEQUENTLY, IS FERMENTED WINE, 
OWING TO THE PRESENCE OF ALCOHOL, ALSO A POISON ? 

The writer, in his tract on " Pure Wine," etc., presented some- 
what hastily the evidence that alcohol, wherever found, when 
taken into the stomach is a poison ; and one of the most fearful 
and deadly of all the poisonous substances in the world, produc- 
ing dreadful effects, not only upon the body — causing some of 
the most serious and fatal of the diseases to which the physical 
system is liable — but also upon the mind of man, causing unnatural 
excitement, and consequent mental depression, delirium and 
insanity ; and that the specific action of alcohol, above all other 
poisons, is to excite the perverted passions of man to an extent 
which very firequently results in the commission of the most hor- 
rible crimes, which men would rarely commit when not under the 
influence of this poison. He also called the attention of the 
reader to the fact that no healthy article of food or drink ever 
produces upon the body and mind of man the slightest approach 
to any such direful effects — ^that poisons, and poisons alone, pro- 
duce such effects ; healthy food never. He also called the atten- 
tion of the reader to the origin of alcohol, to the fact that it 
originates vfrom the destruction of sugar, a good and useful 
article of food corresponding to spiritual delights, by leaven 
which " signifies the evil and the false, which should not be mixed 
with things good and true;" and that in every respect the action 
of alcohol on the body and mind is analogous to the action of 
falses upon the soul. First : That it causes specific unnatural 
effects, like falses which pervert the understanding of man, and 
encourage and justify his evils. Second : That it causes a specific 
unnatural appetite, like falses from evil which excite to specific 
evild which no natural or orderly food, nor even any other poison 

(31) 



32 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

or evil ever satisfies. Third ; It requires to be taken in increasing 
quantities to satisfy the demands of the appetite and of the 
organism which have been perverted by it, until many times the 
quantity a man — ^accustomed to healthy food only — cannot take 
without destroying life, can be used with impunity ; precisely as 
falses from evil lead the innocent man to and from the commis- 
sion of slight crimes, at which his conscience revolts, gradually, - 
step by step, to the commission of the most terrible crimes, and 
justify him in the same, until his spirit is so perverted that an. 
orderly life and the pleasures arising therefrom, satisfy not; 
and down, down the broad road he rushes, regardless of every 
thing and everybody, precisely as does the drinker of alcoholic 
and fermented drinks. Fourth : It palliates the suffering which 
it has caused, which the Lord permits to follow in the physical 
organization, to remind the man that by its use he is violating the 
natural laws of his being — ^in other words, it quiets and dulls his 
physical conscience, precisely as the repetition of acts which are 
known to be evil, quiets and dulls th*e spiritual conscience of 
man, until it is seared, and the individual becomes reckless and 
lost. 

We also called the attention of the reader to the chemical 
changes which are wrought by fermentation upon good wine, 
the pure juice of the grape — ^the fruit of the vine — of which our 
Lord and His disciples drank when He was partaking the Passover 
cup at the Last Supper. We showed that leaven or ferment in 
its onslaught upon good wine — which contains in a wonderful 
manner, most perfectly united by the Lord, all the constituents 
required to nourish the material body — ^tends to pervert and de-* 
stroy the organized substances which nourish the material body as 
good does the soul, and, to the extent the process of fermentation 
is carried, it actually destroys the sugar, so delightful to the 
unperverted taste, and converts it into carbonic acid gas, a gas which 
we cannot breathe without risking or destroying life, and alcohol,' 
a poisonous liquid, which we cannot drink without great danger 
to health, reason, and life. 

Another source of positive information that alcohol is a poison 



ALCX)HOL A POISON, J^ 

fe derived from the results which follow, when one who has been 
accustomed to its use, attempts to stop taking it, and to substitute 
other drinks in its place, specific suffering follows even to delirium 
tremens, which is characteristic of this poison. The substitution 
of one article of healthy drink or food for another never causes 
such specific symptoms or suffering. 

Now, it would certainly seem that no intelligent man, especially 
no New Churchman, who has any knowledge of the science of 
correspondences, and of the philosophy contained in the Writings 
of Swedenborg, and who has read his Bible carefully, can for a 
moment question the poisonous character of alcohol. But, as 
we shall bring the testimony of the Word of the Lord, and of the 
Writings of Swedenborg, when we come to speak of the two 
kinds of wine, we will refer the reader to the following chapter 
for further testimony from the above sources, and will here refer 
to the testimony of distinguished writers, in all ages, aside fix)m 
that contained in the Bible. We will first give the testimony 
of ancient writers before and about the time of the commence- 
ment of the first Christian Chiu-ch. For many of the historical 
facts, quotations and records contained in this chapter, we are 
indebted to a recent work, by Rev. G. W. Samson, D. D., on the 
"Divine Law as to Wines," just published. 

"Porphyry, quotes from a lost work of Chaeremon, librarian at 
a sacred college in Egypt under the Caesars, this historic record : 
*Some do not drink wine at all, and others drink very little oi'% 
on account of its being injurious to the nerves, oppressive to the 
head, an impediment to invention, and an incentive to lust.' 

" In the ' Hieratic Papyri,' or records of Egyptian priests, found 
on paper made from the stem of the water-lily (Anasti, No. IV., 
Let. xi.) is this record of the address of an Egyptian priest to a 
pupil who had become addicted to the use of the beer of Lower 
and the wine of Upper Egypt : *Thou knowest that wine is an 
abomination. Thou hast taken an oath as to strong drink, that 
thou wouldst not take such into thee. Hast thou forgotten thine 
oath?' 

"The laws of the Brahmins of India, embodied in the twelvd 



24 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

chapters of the Institutes of Menu, declare that, among persons 
to be shunned in society is *a drinker of intoxicating spirits.' 

"Zoroaster declares that 'Temperance is the strength of the 
mind ; a man is dead in the intoxication of wine.' 

" The Medes, succeeding to the Assyrian or Babylonian king- 
dom, began as a people strictly abstinent from intoxicating wine. 
Their degeneracy through luxury is portrayed by Xenophon in 
his ' Training of Cyrus,' in a picture which will ever be quoted 
as a gem of graphic sketching. Young Cyrus, coming from his 
Persian home to visit his grandfather, Astyages, King of Medea, 
came to have a moral aversion to the king's cup-bearer, because 
of his office. The king remarking upon it, Cyrus proposed to 
act the cup-bearer ; and with a napkin on his shoulder presented 
the cup to the king with a studied grace that charmed the fond 
old man. When, however, the king observed that young Cyrus 
did not, before presenting the cup, first pour some of it into his 
left hand and taste it — a custom rendered necessary as a 
safeguard against attempts at assassination by poison put into 
the king's wine-cup — ^Astyages said, *You have omitted one 
essential ceremony ; that of tasting.' * No,' replied Cyrus, * it 
was not from forgetting it that I omitted that ceremony.' * For 
what, then,' asked Astyages, * did you omit it? ' ' Because,' said 
Cyrus, * I thought there was poison in the cup.' ' Poison, child ! ' 
cried the king; *how could you think so?' *Yes, poison, 
grandfather, for not long ago at a banquet which you gave to 
your courtiers, after the guests had drunk a httle of that liquor, 
I noticed that all their heads were turned ; they sang, shouted 
and talked they did not know what, and even you yourself 
seemed to forget that you were king and they were subjects ; 
and when you would have danced, you could not stand on your 
legs.' *Why,* asked Astyages, 'have you never seen the same 
happen to your father? ' *No, never,' said Cyrus (Cyrop. B. I.) 

" Who could have supposed that this same Cyrus would him- 
self be led to what was and still is called the temperate use of wine, 
and have led the Persian nation into a habit from which to this 
day they have not even as Mohammedans been redeemed ! It 



ALCOHOL A POISON. 25 

is worthy of special note that the very point of the English con- 
troversy between Dr. F. R. Lees and Rev. A. M. Wilson turns 
on the early abstinence of Cyrus and his subsequent yielding to 
the seduction inseparable from high position, ease and luxury. 
The same Xenophon records that Cyrus in his manhood said, on 
a long march, to his officers : * Collect wine enough to accustom 
us to drink only water ; for most of the way is destitute of wine. 
That we do not, therefore, fall into disease by being left suddenly 
without wine, let us begin at once to drink water with our food ; 
after each meal drink a Uttle wine ; diminish the quantity we 
drinlc after eating until we insensibly become water drinkers : for 
an alteration little by little brings any one to bear a total change ' 
(Cyrop. vi. 2). Xenophon, himself, a little later in Ufe, encour- 
ages his troops by saying, that their sobriety made them an 
overmatch for their wine-drinking foes (Cyrop. vii. 5). The 
lesson is manifest. Herodotus further states that Cyrus by 
strategy overcame the fierce Massagetae ; enticing the young 
prince and his officers, at a banquet given them, to drink deeply, 
while he and his generals only pretended to drink ; and then 
attackiitg their army while their officers were intoxicated. This 
unworthy act led the queen-mother to remonstrate with Cyrus to 
this .effect : * When you yourself are overcome with wine, what 
follies do you not commit ! By penetrating your bodies it makes 
your language more insulting. By this poison you have con- 
quered my son ; and not by your skill or your bravery.* 

"When Alexander, the cultured pupil of Aristotle, transformed 
into the autocratic military conquerer, was seen at thirty to be 
in danger from wine-drinking, a physician named Androcydes, 
Pliny tells us (Nat. Hist. xiv. 5 ) wrote to him, begging him to 
avoid wine, since it was ' a poison.* 

" Pliny closes this book (c. 28) with one of the most eloquent 
of total-abstinence appeals ever penned or uttered. 'How 
strange,* he exclaims, * that men will devote such labor and 
expense for wine, when water, as is seen in the case of animals, 
is the most healthful {saluberrimum) drink ; a drink supplied, too, 
2 



26 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

by nature; while wine takes away reason {mente), engenders 
insanity, leads to thousands of crimes, and imposes such an 
enormous expense on nations.* He says that confirmed drinkers 
' through fear of death ' resulting from intoxication, take as coun- 
teractives. * poisons such as hemlock' (cicutam), and 'others 
which it would be shameful to name.* 'And yet,* asks he, * why 
do they thus act ? ' The drunkard never sees the simrise ; his 
life by drinking is shortened ; from wine comes that pallid hue, 
those drooping eyelids, those sore eyes, those trembling hands, 
.... sleep made hideous by furies during nights of restiessness ; 
and as the crowning penalty of intoxication {prcemium summum 
inebrietatis) those dreams of beastly lust whose enjoyment is 
forbidden.* He adds that many are led into this condition ' by 
the self-interested advice of physicians who seek to commend 
themselves by some novel remedy.' 

Coming down to the second century in the writings of Pseudo 
Justin, we read : 

" Wine is not to be drank daily as water Water is 

necessary, but wine only as a medicine. He shows the absurdity 
of the plea that wine heats the body in winter and cools it in 
summer ; and says : ' It is admitted that wine is a deadly poison * 
{pharmakon thanasimon). In using it, he adds, ' We abuse 
the work of God.* 

Clement of Alexandria, who Uved at the close of the second 
century, says : 

"I admire those who require no other beverage than water, 
avoidmg wine as they do fire. From its use arise excessive 
desires and licentious conduct. The circulation is accelerated, 
and the body inflames the soul.** — Divine Law as to Wmes, 

Coming down to otu* own time, we know of no standard work 
on the effects of medicines or on poisons which does not recog- 
nize alcohol as a poison. In the United States Dispensatory we 
are told that: "As an article of daily use, alcoholic liquors 
produce the most deplorable consequences. Besides the moral 
degradation which they cause, their habitual use gives rise to 
dyspepsia, hypochondriasis, visceral obstructions, dropsy, paraly- 



ALCOHOL A POISON. 27 

sis, and not unfrequently mania. When taken in large quantities, 
.alcohol, in the various forms of ardent spirits, produces an apo- 
plectic state, and occasionally speedy death ; the face becomes 
livid or pale, the respiration stertorous, and the mouth frothy,and 
the sense and feeling are more or less completely lost." 

All books on medical jurisprudence treat of "Poisoning by 
Alcohol," and we have but to look around us on every hand 
to behold the sad effects of this poison. We have brought the 
testimony of the ancient writers to prove that fermented wine 
was by them regarded as a poison, and it was a poison then and 
now, because it contained alcohol. 

The most distinguished English authorities declare : 

" We have all been in error in recommending wine as a tonic. 
Ardent spirits and poisons are convertible terms." — Sir Astley 
Cooper. 

'" Reduction of animal heat is the special action of this poison." 
— Dr, Richardson, 

" Its constant use in moderation injures the nervous tissue, and 
is deleterious to health." "A man may very. materially injure 
his constitution short of drunkenness," "It degenerates the 
tissues and impairs the intellect." — Sir W. GulL 

While even the Roman Catholic Cardinal Manning, of Eng- 
land, urges that entire abstinence from all intoxicants is the only 
hope of saving the Anglo-Saxon and Celtic races from physical 
degeneracy, three of our New Chtu*ch periodicals are striving to 
justify the use of intoxicating wine ; and one of them even advo- 
cates the drinking of whisky, which Swedenborg declares a 
pernicious drink ; and this, notwithstanding Swedenborg com- 
pares such wine and strong drinks as cause drunkenness to 
falses from evil. Alas ! Alas ! for the organized New Church. 
May God protect it from the fearful evil of wine-drinking, and 
consequently from drunkenness. All experience shows, as well 
in the New Church as in other churches, and among Gen- 
tiles, that so long as intoxicating wine, having its origin, as we 
have seen, from hell, is drank, drunkenness, folly, wretchedness 
and insanity will follow in a fearful number of cases ; and as we 



28 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

shall show from the ablest medical testimony in the world, few, if 
any, will ever escape unharmed who use such a beverage, how- 
ever moderately. 

Even the common sense of the world, as manifested in its 
poetry, has recognized the fact that wine and other intoxicating 
drinks are poisons. Shakspeare, Milton, and Pope repeatedly 
proclaim this most important truth, in lines ever memorable : 

" Bacchus that first from out the purple grape 
Crushed the sweet poison of misused wine." 

" Oh, that men should put an enemy in 
Their mouths to steal their brains ! " 

** Oh, thou invisible spirit of wine, 
If thou hast no name to be called b^. 
Let us call thee devil ! " 

** In the flowers that wreathe the sparkling bowl 
Fell adders hiss, and poisonous serpents roll." 

"The brain dances to the maddening bowl." 

" They fancy that they feel 
DiAinity within them breeding wings." 

And yet, exclaims the Rev. , in a sermon printed in a 

recent number of the Morning Light: 

** It is wrong for a New Churchman to teach that wine and other liquids 
containing alcohol are in themselves poisons." 

Wrong, indeed, is it to teach this truth, when the Word of the 
Lord, the writings of the Church, science and all history, teach 
that such liquids are the most fearful and destructive of all poi- 
sons ! affording, according to the writings of the New Church, a 
plane for influx from the hells, when they pollute, disease, and kiH 
both body and soul. Again, says oiu: reverend brother ; 

" If the question now be asked, How may we as New Churchmen best 
promote the cause of temperance in this world? The answer is plain, let 
every New Churchman begin with himself, and let him resolve solemnly 
never to exceed the limits of strict temperance in the use of fermented 
Hquids." 



ALCOHOL A POISON. 29 

Does not the reverend gentleman know, with the example of 
the victims' of such habits as he recommends lying all around him, 
that no young man ever took h*is first glass of intoxicating wine 
without resolving never to become a drunkard ; but that step by 
step he is lured on by this seductive fluid, only drinking what he 
finds is actually necessary to satisfy the demands of his appetite 
and of his perverted organization, and at last when he is shocked 
and angered at the intimation that there is danger of his becoming 
a drunkard, that it is then generally too late ; that the first glass has 
wrought its deadly work, and he is no longer in the same state of 
fireedom as when he took that ? Does the reverend gentleman not 
know that every drunkard, who is not absolutely lost to all sense 
of right and shame, after he has had a drunken spree, or delirium 
tremens^ during which his stomach has revolted at the approach 
of renewed potations of the poison, when he takes his first glass, 
resolves, oftentimes, as we well know, with prayers and supplica- 
tions to the Lord for help, that he will only take an occasional 
glass — only "drink temperately?" but that first glass, voluntarily 
taken, affords a plane for influx from hell, and he might as well 
attempt to stem the current of Niagara, forty feet above the 
cataract, in a birch bark canoe, as to attempt to stay his appetite 
imtil he has had another drunken bout. 

But with much that is erroneous, our reverend brother states 
some truths, and among them he says : 

** Our allegiance as members of the New Church is due to the truth, to 
the plain, unvarnished truth, as this is taught in the letter of the Divine 
Word, illuminated by true doctrine." 

But, he says again : 

"The cause of intemperance is not in the body, but in the spirit; it is, in 
fact an outward bodily habit, resulting from a perverted spiritual state. 
Natural drunkenness, or an intoxicated state of the body and its senses, is 
injected into men and women in this world by spirits in the other world 
who are in a state of spiritual intoxication; then partaking of wine or 
other spirituous liquids, he transgresses the limits of temperance and 
becomes intemperate." 

Cannot our New Church brother see that this statement, as a 



30 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

whole, as he presents it here, and elsewhere in his sermon, is 
not correct? The natural substances around us, Swedenborg 
shows, derive their very quality and life either from the Lord or 
from hell. All substances which do hurt and kill men originate 
from hell, we are told by the Swedish seer. Now it should be 
perfectly clear to our brother that natural drunkenness can only 
be caused by a substance or fluid which is a natural receptacle 
of, and derives its quaUty and life from, those false views springing 
from perverted affections which constitute spiritual drunkenness, 
and this is beyond question alcohol in some form. One-half, more 
or less, of the people of the United States never use intoxicating 
drinks, and there is not a single drunkard to be found among 
this 25,000,000 of people. They may drink all the water or 
milk, or even vinegar, they please ; they can never become 
drunkards, so long as they abstain from alcohol in every form. 
Many of them may be spiritual drunkards, and doubtless some 
of them are, but they are not natural drunkards — ^not one of 
them — ^any more than a man who hates, covets, or envies, is a 
natmal murderer. Before he becomes a murderer he must use 
some physical agency capable of killing his fellow-man, it may be 
a club, pistol, knife, poison, or his tongue, by uttering foul words 
of slander ; ,so long as he simply hates, and never uses any physi- 
cal instrumentality for killing the material body, he can never 
become the murderer of the physical body of man ; and hateful 
acts do not always kill a man, any more than the use of intoxicat- 
ing drinks always cause drunkenness, or kill a man ; but every 
hateful act,' like every glass containing alcohol, is always injurious 
to the man who indulges in such perversions. 

It is, then, only when, from a perverted state of either the under- 
standing or will, the man forsakes healthy food, which nourishes 
and cheers without exciting, and partakes of the natural symbols 
of the falses which cause spiritual drunkenness, that natural 
drunkenness ever ensues. And a very important truth should 
here be borne in mind by every man and woman, before they 
allow themselves to partake of intoxicating drinks ; and that is, 
that neither goodness, intelligence, nor ignorance, shields any one 



(( UNiVERSJTY 

ALCOHOL A POISON. \^ ^^ 

; s£4LiFC 
from a growing appetite, disease, and drunkenne^, who partakes 

at all of the natural substances which afford a plane for the influx 
of spirits who are in states of spiritual drunkenness. It is not 
necessary that the individual himself should be in such a state, 
for the same quantity of fermented wine will cause drunkenness 
as soon in the case of a good and intelligent man, as with an evil 
and ignorant man. The serpent, or the sensual principle, seduces 
man, therefore the danger of wine-drinking. The advocates for 
the use of intoxicating drinks seem to forget these great truths ; 
and further that there can be no spiritual reformation of man, 
which does not ultimate itself in the external life of man. 
Drunkenness can never cease until men stop drinking intoxi- 
eating drinks, as all history proves, any more than murders can 
cease until men stop using deadly instruments and bad words. 
The evil must first be resisted in external act, from the standpoint 
of conscience ; we must first stop domg evil, then we may be 
able to stop thinking, and only after that can we stop willing evil* 
Such is the order of regeneration as taught in the writings of the 
New Church. Stop drinking intoxicating drinks, and drunken- 
ness inevitably ceases ; and such evil spirits as are spiritual 
drunkards, having no natural medium through which to flow into 
the external life of man, men will be left in freedom from such 
influx ; and then, and not till then, we may hope and expect 
that spiritual drunkenness will begin to cease on earth ; but the 
work must commence at the bottom, on the natural plane, from 
spiritual motives. In other words, we must shun the use of 
those drinks which cause natural drunkenness, as a sin against 
God ; their use violating the laws of health, both in our physical 
and spiritual organizations. This is our first duty, if we would 
avoid either natural or spiritual drunkenness. 

Since writing the above, we are happy to find, in the columns 
of the Morning Light, an earnest remonstrance by Mr. T. Piatt, 
of Burslem, England, against the promulgation of such erroneous 
and pernicious views on this subject as are contained in the 
sermon under consideration. We will add the closing paragraph : 

"The good ■ would almost seem to have temper- 



$2 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

ance work upside down in his mind. The abstainer has seen the 
jfien^, conscience has felt the sin before heaven, and the internal 
bond of a high, holy, and pure resolve has ultimated itself in the 
external vow and work for the dethronement of the demon, and 
its banishment by prohibition, if possible, from inside of old 
England's national cup and platter, that the outside thereof may 
also be clean and fair to the eyes of the peoples of the earth. 
Thousands of honest men and true have coupled true temperance 
with a sincere acknowledgment of the Lord's truth and power, 
and have thereby overcome its spiritual cause ! The text 
(resplendent in its own truth), but ill-aimed for once from the 
discourse it was to give effect to, merely glances along the pre- 
cipitous heights of moderation, but touches not the temperance 
tower of refuge, which, basking in the warm rays of love to God 
and man, still stands a mighty reclaiming power from that spirit 
of evil whose potent spell 'unmans man, unwomans woman, turns 
the mother's milk into a monster's venom, fires men to do things 
they would revolt from in their serener moments,' and, let me 
add, peoples the hells ! Permit me, then, with the memory of 
a sire a victim to the curse, the cares of a ruined family devolving 
upon me in consequence, the still uneffaced years of misery which 
marked the track from the 'allowed' moderation to a grave as 

yet scarcely closed, to appeal to in the name of love 

and pity not to again publish a discourse on this question which 
may be grasped as an excuse by some poor brother unconsciously 
nearing the dreadful vortex ! There is, alas ! too much truth in 
the homely lines of the Preston poet, who wrote — 

* Ye men of sups and little drops, 
Ye moderation muddlers. 
Ye are the men that raised the seed 
Of regular drunken fuddlers.* " 

MODERATION FALLACY. 

In concluding what we have to say of alcohol and fermented 
drinks, as poisons, we cannot do better than quote a few passages 
from the writings of Dr. Benjamin Richardson, of England, who, 



ALCOHOL A POISON. 33 

T 

has unquestionably observed and experimented more carefully, 
and for a longer period of time, on the action of alcoholic drinks 
on the body and mind than any other man. Speaking of "The 
Moderation Fallacy," he says : 

" This thought leads me to add a word on what is called the 
practice of moderation in the use of alcohol. I believe the 
Church of England Temperance Association is divided by two 
Hues, one of which marks off total abstainers, the other moderate 
indulgers. I am one of those who have once been bitten by 
the plea of moderate indulgence. Mr. Worldly Wiseman, with 
his usual industry, tapped me on the shoulder, as he does every 
man, and held a long and plausible palaver on this very subject. 
If I had not been a physician he might have converted me. But 
side by side with his wisdom there came fortunately the knowl- 
edge which I could not, dare not, ignore, that the mere 
moderate man is never safe, neither in the counsel he gives to. 
others, nor in the practice he follows for himself. Furthermore, 
I observe as a physiological, or perhaps, psychological, fact, that 
the attraction of alcohol for itself is cumulative. That so long as 
it is present in a human body, even in small quantities, the long- 
ing for it, the sense of requirement for it, is present, and that as 
the amount of it insidiously increases, so does the desire. 

" The mere question of the destructive effect of alcohol on 
the membranes of the body alone would be a sufficient study for 
an address on the. mischiefs of it. I can not define it better, 
indeed, than to say that it is an agent as potent for evil as it is 
helpless for good. It begins by destroying, it ends by destruc- 
tion, and it implants organic changes which progress independ- 
ently of its presence even in those who are not bom. 

" In my address delivered last year in the Sheldonian Theatre, 
at Oxford, I spoke almost exclusively on the facts connected 
with the action of alcohol on the body. It seems to me befitt- 
ing, if on the present occasion I touch more particularly on the 
facts connected with the action of alcohol on the mind. Before, 
however, I pass to this particular topic, it may be advisable ta 
epitomize the matter of the Oxford essay, so that those, and they 



34 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

must be many here, who have not read that essay, may follow 
the present argument dealing with mental phenomena, from the 
argument which was based on tlie study of physical phenomena. 

" In that essay I endeavored to show from the experimental 
evidence I had previously collec^ted, that alcohol, when it finds 
its way into the living body, interferes with the oxidation of the 
blood ; that it interferes with the natural motion of the heart ; 
that it produces a paralyzing effect on the minute circulation of 
the blood at the point of the circulation where the quantity of 
the blood admissible into the tissues ought to be duly regulated ; 
that habitually used in what some — ^indeed, the majority of tiiose 
who indulge in alcoholic drinks— consider a moderate quantity, 
it impedes the digestive power ; that it induces organic changes 
ending in organic diseases of vital organs, such as the liver and 
kidneys ; that it leads to similar changes in the great nervous cen- 
tres, and to destruction of nervous function, ending in paralysis. 

" I further indicated, in the address to which I refer, that 
alcohol has no claim whatever to be considered a supporter of 
the animal temperature, and no claim whatever to be thought a 
supporter of muscular power. On the contrary, that, from the 
moment a physiological effect is produced in the body by alcohol 
and onward, so long as the effect is kept up by the addition of 
the agent to the body, the animal heat, the nervous control over 
the muscles, and the independent power resident in the muscles 
themselves, begin and continue to decline, until at last the body, 
cold and senseless, falls to the ground, checked only by its own 
utter helplessness, and, as it were, living death, from imbibing the 
last drops that would make the death absolute. From all these 
facts I reasoned that alcohol could not, in any sense whatever, 
be, scientifically, set down as a food for man or any other ani- 
mal ; that it could not be set down as a necessity for man or any 
other animal ; that, useless as food, it is mischievous as a luxury ; 
and that, indulged in as a luxury, it is far too dangerous a destroyer 
to be entrusted to the general management of mankind, or to the 
hands of those who, because of its luxurious temptations, fall 
under its power. 



ALCOkOL A POISON. 35 

ACnON OF ALCOHOL ON THE MIND. 

" As I have moved among those who are physically stricken 
with alcohol, and have detected under the various dis- 
guises of name the fatal diseases, the pains and penalties it 
imposes on the body, the picture has been sufficiently cruel. 
But even tliat picture pales as I conjure up, without any stretch 
of imagination, the devastations which the same agent inflicts on 
the mind. Forty per cent., the learned superintendent of 
Colney Hatch, Dr. Shepherd, tells us, forty per cent, of those 
who were brought into that asylum during the year 1876, were 
so brought because of the direct or indirect effects of alcohol. 
If the facts of all the asylums were collected with equal care, 
the same tale would, I fear, be told. What need we further to 
show the destructive action of this one instrument of destruction 
on the human mind ? The Pandemonium of drunkards : the 
grand transformation scene of that pantomime of drink, which 
commences with moderation ! Let it be nevermore forgotten by 
those who love their fellow-men until, through their efforts, it is 
closed for ever. 

" For the work that comes of the mind and that comes out 
under pressure, no taste of alcoholic stimulation is necessary. 
Every such taste is a self-inflicted injury, and, what is more, an 
accumulating injury. The dose of alcohol which spurred the 
thought of to-day must be slightly increased to spur the thought 
of to-morrow to the same pitch. So on and on the evil goes, 
until at last the simple, and, as it was called, harmless dose, rises 
to the poisonous dose; until, with unnerved limbs, faltering 
memory, dulL imagination, estranged feeling, enfeebled or even 
dismantled reason, the victim falls. Of all men, brain-workers 
are the men least able to bear up against the ravages of alcohol. 
Of all men they are the most liable to be deceived and played 
upon by this traitor, who enters the most precious treasury, the 
citadel of the mind. I hold that man as prematurely mad who 
defends the use of alcohol for himself on this ground of neces- 
sity. I hold that man as criminally mad who, knowingly, 
prescribes alcohol on this foundation. 



36 ALCOHOL A POISON. 

" On the other side the experience is unfortunately overwhehn- 
ing in favor of the observation that the use of alcohol dulls the 
reasoning power, makes weak men and women the easy prey of 
the wicked and strong, and leads men and women who should 
know better into every grade of misery and vice. It is not poor 
repenting Cassio alone who cries out in agony of despair, * Oh, 
that a man should put an enemy into his mouth to steal away 
his brains !' It is thousands upon thousands of Cassios who say 
the same thought, if not the same words, every day, every hour. 
I doubt, indeed, whether there is a single man or woman who 
indulges or who has indulged in alcohol who could not truth- 
felly say the same ; who could not wish that something he had 
unreasonably said or expressed under the excitation of alcohol 
had not been given forth. 

" If, then, alcohol enfeebles the reason, what part of the mental 
constitution does it exalt and excite ? It exalts and excites those 
animal, organic, emotional centres of mind which, in the dual 
nature of man, so often cross and oppose that pure and abstract 
reasoning nature which lifts man above the lower animals, and, 
rightly exercised, little lower than the angels. Exciting these 
animal centres, it lets loose all the passions, and- gives them more 
or less of unlicensed domination over the whole man. It excites 
anger, and when it does not lead to this extreme, it keeps the 
mind fretful, irritable, dissatisfied, captious. The flushed face of 
the red-hot angry man, how like it is to the flushed face of the 
man in the first stage of alcoholic intoxication. The face, white 
with rage, and the tremulous, agitated muscles of the body, how 
like both are to the pale face and helpless muscles of the man 
deep in intoxication from alcohol. The states are not simply 
similar, they are identical, and the one will feed the other." 

The young man in his path of life has no worse enemies to 
encounter than temperate drinkers, more aptly named by an 
Irishman who had himself once been one of them, "Beginners," 
and Dr. Crosby's temperance society the "beginners' society." 
The influence of the drunkard on the young amounts to little ; 
but that of the beginner may be fearfully destructive. Well did 



ALCOHOL A POISON. 37 

the wise men of old advise, that the society of such should be 
shunned. 

It is well known to medical men that a man may have delirium 
tremens, and die from this disease, without ever having been what 
tiie temperate drinker calls drunk. Even clergymen not imfre- 
quentiy witness such cases. Says the Rev. J. M. Van Buren : 

" I have in my knowledge two cases of men dying from delirium tremens 
who were never known to be drunk; steady moderate drinking was the 
cause." 

Are such men drunkards, or are they not? Can any one tell 
us where the line of demarcation between the so-called temperate 
drinker and the drunkard lies ? Surely the chief responsibility 
for the drunkenness in the world lies with the "beginners," for 
if men never begin to drink, the race of drunkards will soon be 
extinct. 

Speaking of those who attempt to justify the use of intoxicat- 
ing wines from the Bible, the Rev. J. M. Van Buren, in his 
excellent work on Gospel Temperance, says : 

"One stands appalled who thinks of the destruction of multitudes of our 
youth by the teaching and example of such men." 

It is a fearful thing to pervert the truths of the letter of the Word, 
and the Revelations of the New Church, for the justification of the 
gratification of our perverted appetites and passions ; and espe- 
cially to teach others that such gratifications are right, and thus to 
lead the inexperienced into such perversions. The writer desires 
to call the attention of such of his brethren as use, justify, and 
advocate the use of fermented wines and other intoxicating 
drinks, to the following statement of Swedenborg : 

" That the insanity signified by inebriation and by drunken- 
ness in the Word is not from falses, but from truths falsified." — 
(Swedenborg's Index to the A. E. 1035.) 



CHAPTER III. 



TWO KINDS OF WINE. 



That there are two kinds of wine spoken of in the letter of the 
Bible and in the writings of the New Church, the one always 
good and the other always evil and pernicious, will be evident 
to every reader who, without preconceived opinions, carefully 
reads his Bible and the Writings of Swedenborg. It is now, 
as we intimated in our tract with a few illustrations, perfectiy 
clear, that during all the various periods when the Sacred 
Scriptures were written, the ancients were in the habit of pre- 
paring two kinds of wine, both of which were called wine ; 
one kind fermented and intoxicating, and the other unfer- 
mented, and consequently unintoxicating ; which was not only 
harmless, but a healthy and nutritious drink, and abundantly 
capable of making glad the unperverted heart of man. They 
also prepared a great variety of unfermented or unintoxicating 
wine ; and by a great variety of methods which are carefully 
described by ancient writers, to three of which we alluded in our 
former tract. And, further, it is now evident that their best and 
most celebrated old wines were generally, if not always, unfermented 
wines. They had no distilled spirits to add to their wines to 
preserve them, as we have at this day, consequently, even if they 
had ^a desire to preserve their fermented wine, they would have 
found it difficult, with their imperfect vessels and casks, to have 
done so ; for fermented wine, if not most carefully excluded from 
the air, so readily passes into vinegar, especially in warm 
climates; whereas they had no difficulty in preparing unfer- 
mented wine so that it would keep for years, and even for 
centuries, as we shall see from the testimony of ancient authors. 

Now, kind reader, stop a moment and reflect. Here is a view 
of the wine question, abundantly sustained by the testimony 



TWO KINDS or WINE. 39 

of disinterested ancient authors, and of the most distin- 
guished writers of the early Christian Church, which recon- 
ciles all apparent contradictions to be found in the Bible and in 
the Writings of Swedenborg ; and we ask, in view of the terrible 
evils you see around you, is it not worthy of your most serious 
and prayerful consideration ? It is evident that there is no evil 
of external life so fearful in its consequences upon our race as 
the drinking of intoxicating wines. Consider the unnatural and 
depraved excitement, the diseases, and drunkenness which arise 
therefrom as naturally as a stream flows from its fountain. Is it 
not a duty which we owe to the Lord, our fellow-man and to 
ourselves, to examine this subject? 

TWO KINDS OF WINE RECOGNIZED IN THE WORD OF THE LORD, 
BOTH SPIRITUALLY AND NATURALLY. 

If there are two kinds of spiritual wine recognized in the Word 
of the Lord, and in the writings of the New Church, we have a 
right to look for two kinds of natural wine ; for the philosophy of 
the New Church teaches us that the spiritual ii ever in the 
effort to ultimate itself in the natural. Then to the law and 
testimony : 

"Wine and blood of grapes." (Gen. xlix. ii.) "Wine here," 
says Swedenborg, " denotes what is spiritual from a celestial 
origin," or "essential faith." (A. C. 107 1.) "Wine in the Holy 
Supper signifies the divine truth of the Lord's divine wisdom." 
(U. T. 711.) There is no difficulty in bringing a large number 
of quotations, both from the Word and the Writings of Sweden- 
borg, to show that good wine has a good signification ; and is in 
every way a safe, good, and useful drink. This is admitted by all, 
therefore further illustrations at present are unnecessary, as there 
is no controversy on this point. But here, one class of New 
Church writers and teachers assume that there is but one kind of 
wine spoken of in the Word ; and that is a good wine, having a 
good correspondence ; and that it is never evil, or a poison in 
itself; but that it may become injurious, if excessively used, like 
any other healthy article of drink. But another class of teachers 



40 TWO KINDS OF WINE. 

and writers, and among them the present writer, claim that there 
are two kinds of wine ; one unleavened, goo^ and harmless, 
always having a good signification ; the other leavened, poison- 
ous, and destructive, always having an evil signification when 
mentioned in the Word of the Lord. " In all the passages where 
good wine is named, there is no lisp of warning, no intimation 
of danger, no hint of disapprobation, but always of decided 
approval. How bold and strongly marked is the contrast : 

The one the cause of intoxication, of violence, and of woes. 

The other the occasion of comfort and of peace. 

The one the cause of irreligion and of self-destruction. 

The other the devout offering of piety on the altar of God. 

The one the symbol of the divine wrath. 

The other the symbol of spiritual blessings. 

The one the emblem of eternal damnation. 

The other the emblem of eternal salvation." — Bible Wines, 

"The distinction in quality between the good and the bad 
wine is as clear as that between good and bad men, or good and 
bad wives, or good and bad spirits ; for one is the constant sub- 
ject of warning, designated poison literally, analogically, and 
figuratively, while the other is commended as refreshing and 
innocent, which no alcoholic wine is." — Lees* Appendix (p. 232). 

And we shall find that this view is abundantly sustained by 
the Writings of Swedenborg. He says, "Whereas several expres- 
sions in the Word have also a contrary sense, so also has wine ; 
in which sense it signifies the false principle derived from evil." 
(A. C. 6377.) And, in strict harmony with this, he says : "The 
wine of fornication spoken of by Saint John the Revelator 
signifies the adulterated truths of faith, whereof drunkenness is 
predicated." (A. C. 1072.) Again, " By the wine of the fury and 
the wrath of God (Rev. xix.) are signified the goods and truths 
of the Church, which are from the Word, profaned and adul- 
terated, and therefore the evils and falses of the Church." But, 
say the advocates of fermented wine, this refers to spiritual wine 
and not to natural wine. Grant it, but have we no evidence 
that there is a corresponding material wine, which is an outbirth 



TWO KINDS OF WINE. 41 

from such spiritual wine ; and which therefore necessarily pro- 
duces similar effects on the body and mind of man, when he 
drinks it, that the above-named spiritual wine does upon his 
spirit when he adulterates the truths of faith and appropriates 
such adulterated truths to his life ? Can we, as rational beings, 
infer that there is no difference between the good wine of which 
we are told to "drink abundantly," — "wine which," we are told 
in Judges ix. 13, "cheereth God and man," and of which our 
Lord said at the Last Supper, " drink ye all of it," — and the wine, 
which we are told in Deut. xxxii. ;^;^, "is the poison of dragons, 
and the cruel venom of asps ;" — the wine of which we are told in 
Jeremiah li. 7, " the nations have drank," " therefore the nations 
are mad," or the wine which we are told in Prov. xx. i, that it 
" is a mocker, and that it biteth like a serpent and stingeth like 
an adder?" As the Proverbs have not a spiritual sense, tne advo- 
cates for fermented wine cannot claim that this refers to spiritual 
wine, and we think that they will agree with the writer that the 
author of Proverbs did not here refer t« unfermented wine ; but 
we fancy that every one cannot but see that he did refer to 
fermented wine ; for we can see that, although the language is 
figurative, yet as such it most accurately describes the effects of 
fermented wine on the mind and body of man. 

But Swedenborg does not leave us in doubt as to there being 
two kinds of wine, one good and the other bad, for he says : 
" Falses from evil may be compared to such wine and strong 
drinks as induce drunkenness." (A. E. 1035.) It is not the use 
or abuse, but the article itself which is compared to falses from 
evil. It is its inherent quality, clearly described by its effects on 
the human body and mind. "By wine," says Swedenborg, 
"is signified truth from heaven, and in the opposite sense the 
false from hell." (A. E. 1046.) Good wine has always a good 
use ; it may be abused ; but abuse, Swedenborg tells us does not 
take away use, excepting in those who abuse it ; therefore, the 
wine itself, which signifies truth from heaven when unpolluted, 
can never signify " the false from hell," but the abuse of it pos- 
sibly may. We repeat, it is of the wine he speaks in the above 



42 TWO KINDS OF WINE. 

language, and not of its abuse. That it is not good wine which 
signifies the false from hell ; but such wine as has been perverted 
and polluted by ferment which we are told signifies "the false 
of evil" (D. P. 284) will be clearly seen by the above quotation 
and others we have ialready made, and shall hereafter make firom 
the Writings of Swedenborg. Again, Swedcnborg says : 

" 'The same shall drink of the wine of the anger of God, mixed 
pure in the cup of his wrath.* That hereby is signified appro- 
priation of the false and evil thence derived, conjoined with 
falsified truths firom the literal sense of the Word, appears from 
the signification of drinking, as denoting to imbue and appro- 
priate to themselves; and from the signification of wine, as 
denoting truth firom good, and in the opposite sense the false 
firom evil. * * * in this case, therefore, by drinking the wine 
of the anger of God, is signified the imbuing and appropriation of 
the false and evil thence derived * * * and from the signi- 
fication of being mixed pure, as denoting to be conjoined with 
falsified truths. * * , * From these considerations it is 
evident that, by wine mixed pure in the cup of the anger of God, 
is signified conjunction with falsified truths of the literal sense of 
the Word. * ♦ * xhe reason why being mixed pure 
signifies to be conjoined with falsified truths of the Word is, 
because by pure [wine] is meant wine which is inebriating ; and 
thence inebriation, consequently, in the spiritual sense, delirium in 
truths by falses, for delirium in truth by falses is spiritual inebria- 
tion. " ( A. E. 88 7 .) There is no known -substance on earth which 
will with so much certainty and so uniformly cause natural deli- 
rium as fermented wine and other liquids which contain alcohol, 
that "prince of poisons." How clearly, fi-om its effects alone on 
man when he uses it, we may know that it corresponds to "falses 
from evil ;" and the delirium which it causes to the "delirium in 
truths by falses !" W^e repeat, there is no healthy food on earth 
which, like alcoholic wine, and other fluids containing alcohol, 
causes delirium when freely used — ^alcohol always does this; 
healthy food never. This fact alone, it would seem, ought to 
convince any intelligent New Churchman that it has its origin 



TWO KINDS OF WINE. 43 

from hell, and not from the Lord. What can be clearer than 
this ? Owing, doubtless, to the fact that a very different mean- 
ing is attached to the word pure wine at this day, from the 
original meaning of the word as it was used in the passage under 
consideration ; and, apparently, lest his readers should therefore 
mistake the present meaning for the original meaning, Sweden- 
borg goes on to explain in the following language : "The word 
also by which pure wine [merum'] is expressed in the original 
tongue is derived from a word which signifies to be inebriated, 
inasmuch as this is signified by pure wine [^merum'] and they 
who falsify the word are spiritually inebriated, that is, are deliri- 
ous as to truths, therefore in the two passages where pure wine 
[^merum^ is mentioned in the Word, the subject treated of is 
concerning the falsification of truth, as in the prophecies of 
Isaiah and Hosea. *How hath the faithful city become a 
harlot ; fiiU of judgment, justice lodgeth in her, but now homi- 
cides : thy silver hath become dross, thy pure wine [^merum'] 
mixed with water' (Isaiah i. 21-22). * * * The pure 
wine [_merum2 mixed with water signifies truth made vile, and 
destroyed by the falsification thereof." (A. E. 887.) 

We know that fermented wine and other intoxicating drinks 
cause delirium and insanity, and that of the most fearful 
character ; and we know that healthy fluids have never this 
specific effect, as we have already said ; and we know also that 
spiritual truth when unperverted never causes spiritual delirium ; 
how, then, is it possible for a natural fluid, which legitimately 
corresponds to spiritual truth, to ever cause natural delirium, and 
that of a specific character like that from alcohol, character- 
istic of the article used? Our friends who advocate the use 
of intoxicating wines and whisky seem to forget the philosophy 
of the New Church and the science of correspondences, 
which are so clearly and beautifully taught in the Writings of 
Swedenborg. They seem to forget that: "The real case is, 
that in even the minutest things in nature and in her three 
kingdoms, the intrinsic agent is from the spiritual world, and 
unless such an active principle from that world was therein. 



44 TWO KINDS OF WINE. 

nothing at all in the natural world could act as cause and effect^ 
consequently nothing could be produced." (A. C. 5173.) It 
is, therefore, perfectly clear that no article of food or drink can 
ever cause delirium, as does alcohol, which has not an active 
spiritual principle from hell, the home of insane and delirious 
spirits. 

A New Church clergjnnan, who is an earnest advocate of total 
abstinence from intoxicating drinks, has just sent the writer the 
following selection froni the Writings of Swedenborg, with the 
comments attached : 

" Inasmuch as drunkenness was a tjrpe of insanity in regard to truths of 
faith, therefore it was also made a representative, .and this prohibition was 
given to Aaron : * Do not drink wine, nor drink that viaketh drunken^ 
thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go into the Tabernacle of the Congre- 
gation, lest ye die; — that ye may put a difference between holy and unholy, 
and between unclean and clean.' — Levit. x. 8-9. (A. C. 1072.) 

" This passage,' remarks our reverend correspondent, * I think conclu- 
sive proof— especially with those who believe the Word to be the sole basis 
of doctrine for the New Church."' 

It is certain that the above passage distinctly marks a wine and 
» strong drink that were forbidden the priests when they officiated 
in the service of the sanctuary. There can be no mistaking the 
\ kind of wine and strong drink referred to here. They are such 
as make men drunken. But we know that there are wines and 
strong drinks which are never unholy or unclean — ^wines every 
way suitable for use in the most holy ordinance of the Lord's 
Supper — wines that never " maketh drunken." 

In a work just published in England, the Rev. Thomas Pear- 
son says : 

" Moses tells us, that the intoxicating yayin (wine) of Sodom was the 
poison of dragons, and the cruel venom of asps, and are we to suppose him 
to refer to its abuse, and not to its character? He says nothing of excess 
or drunkenness, but speaks only of the character of the yayin. Now, as 
Moses speaks of the thing itself zn^ not of its abuse, we conclude that it 
is the thing itself vi\i\Q\x is condemned. Now, will any of our friends on the 
other side point out a single passage in the Bible in which a thing ^^</ in 
itself IS condemned on account of its abuse F^* 



CHAPTER IV. 

TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, TWO KINDS OF MUST, AND TWO KINDS OF 
NEW WINE, ONE GOOD AND THE OTHER BAD. 

We are told by Swedenborg that grapes in a good sense mean 
goodness, and in the opposite sense evil. (A. C. 2240, 5 117.) 
To eat sour grapes signifies to appropriate to one*s self the falses 
of evil. (A. C. 556.) Grapes may not only be sour, but also 
wild, or uncultivated, consequently useless as fruit : when this is 
the case, as in Isaiah v. 2, they signify we are told " evil opposed 
to the goods of charity." "Grapes of gall and clusters of bitter- 
ness" (Deut. xxxii. 32) signify evils from dire falses. (A. E. 

438.) 

But the signification of sweet, cultivated grapes is good: 
"Grapes and clusters signify works of charity, because they are 
the finits of the vine and the vineyard, and by fruits, in the 
Word, are signified good works." (A. R. 649-.) 

Wine in the Cluster, — " ' Thus saith Jehovah, as the new wine 
is found in the cluster ; and He saith. Spoil it not, because a 
blessing is in it.* (Isaiah Ixv. 8.) The new wine in the cluster 
denotes truth firom good in the natural principle. " (A. C. 
5 117.) Surely no one can pretend that this new wine in the 
cluster is fermented wine, for alcohol is never found in the clusters 
in the vineyard. To produce alcohol from grapes, either the 
grapes or the juice therefrom must be manufactured by man, 
"Clusters of noble wine" is not fermented wine. 

The Blood of the Grape, — ^This is the juice which flows 
almost or quite spontaneously firom the grape, when the skin is 
wounded or broken, before the application of much pressure. 
It is the sweetest portion of the juice of the grape, and was 
frequently preserved separately by the ancients. Owing to its 
containing a large amount of saccharine matter, and very little 

(46) 



46 TWO KINDS OF GRAPES. MUST, AND WINE. 

gluten, it does not ferment as readily as the juice which is 
obtained by pressure. In Gen. xlix. ii, "'He hath washed his 
garments in wine, and his covering in the blood of grapes'; 
speaking of the Lord : here wine denotes spiritual good from the 
divine love, and the blood of grapes denotes celestial good 
thence derived. * * * Again, ' and thou drinkest the blood 
of the grape, new wine.' In Deut. xxxii. 14, speaking of thcj 
Ancient Church, * * * the blood of the grape signifies 
spiritual celestial good, which is the name given to the Divine iii 
heaven proceeding from the Lord : wine is called the blood of 
grapes, since each signifies holy truth proceeding firom the Lord ; 
wine, however, is predicated of the spiritual and blood of the 
celestial; and this being the case, wine was employed in the 
Holy Supper." (A. C. 51 17.) 

In the above passages from the "Arcana," we are distinctly 
taught that wine in the cluster and the blood of the grape have a 
good signification. Simply pressing the wine from the grape does 
not change its character ; it is still good. Therefore Swedenborg 
informs us that "new wine signifies the truth of the Word." 
(A. E. 618.) "New wine signifies spiritual good." (A. E. 323.) 
"New wine (Luke xv. 29) is the divine truth of the New Testa- 
ment, consequently of the New Church, and old wine is the 
divine truth of the Old Testament, consequently of the Old 
Church." (A. R. 316.) "Must signifies the same as wine, viz., 
truth derived from the good of charity and love." (A. E. 695.) 
And, again, " By the produce of the wine-press was signified all 
the truth of the good of the Church, the same as by wine." 
(A. E. 799.) 

From the above, it would seem that it must be perfectly clear 
to every one who acknowledges the truth of the revelations to 
the New Church, that not only the grape and the wine which is 
contained in the grape, the wine which flows from the grape on 
being punctured, or from the press when pressure is applied, but 
also all the produce of the wine-press have a good signification — 
the very highest. This is the wine, then, which we may safely 



TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 47 

use in the Holy Supper, for it has never been adulterated or 
polluted by the manipulation of man and the action of ferment. 

But let men collect this good juice of the grape, or new wine 
or must, into vessels and preserve it at a proper temperature, 
exposed to the air, for from twelve to forty-eight hours, and a 
new form of life enters it ; ferment or leaven signifying "the false 
of evil" (D. P. 284), and "the evil and the false, which should 
not be mixed with things good and true" (A. C. 2342), com- 
mences its fearful work of destruction ; and, if not arrested by 
boiling, or some other instrumentality, it continues it until there 
is left, save a litde sugar, scarcely a vestige of the natural ingre- 
dients of the original wine from the grape ; and when this work 
of destruction is completed we have fermented wine — ^the wine 
which causes drunkenness — which Swedenborg compares to falses 
from evil (A. E. 1035), and of which he says : "The reason why 
the false, which gives birth to evil, is signified is because, as wine 
intoxicates and makes insane, so does the false ; spiritual intoxi^ 
cation being nothing but insanity induced by reasonings con- 
cerning what is to be believed, when nothing is believed which is 
not comprehended, hence come falses, and from falses evil." 
(A. C. 5120.) 

The reader will bear in mind that the leaven is neither the 
product of the vine, nor of the wine-press ; but it is among the 
evil uses, described by Swedenborg, which originate from hell ; 
and which he assures us should not be mixed with things good and 
true. " The process of fermentation is one of decay ; in all ferment- 
ative action, vital growth is arrested, organized matter is disinteg- 
rated and retrogression ensues. It is a passage from more cojnplex *9n 
to more elementary form — in fact, from diet to dirt. Pl^arch in V 
his '' Roman Questions ' ( 109 \ and Gellius, in his ' Acttic Nights,' 
remark that the priests of Jupiter were not permitted to touch 
leaven, because it was the product and producer of corruption." 
(Lees' Bible Commentary.) How strange it seems that any New 
Churchman, with all the clear light thrown upcn this subject by 
the writings of the Churchy should justify and even advocate the 
use of fermented wine, full of alcohol, the chief product of leaven^ 



43 TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 

As soon as leaven commences its destructive work, the wine 
becomes warm, thick, and muddy, but it is still called must and 
new wine ; and it is in this state, as it is with new fermenting 
cider, that it is liable to disturb the stomach and bowels if 
drank. Fresh grape juice or new wine, as well as grapes, if used 
moderately,will tend to keep the bowels regular and to remove 
constipation ; but if used too freely, like most fruits and their 
juices, they may disturb the stomach and cause looseness of the 
bowels. 

When the work of fermentation commences, we have a must or 
new wine of a very different character from that contained in the 
.fruit of the vine, or which flowed from the press ; for it is being 
polluted by a substance which has its life from hell, and adul- 
terated by its chief poisonous product — alcohol, which causes 
drunkenness and insanity. Is it strange that must and new wine, 
when thus adulterated, should have a very different signification 
from the unpolluted must and new wine ? 

It is certain that there must be a corresponding change in the 
signification of the new wine and must, thus changed by leaven ; 
therefore, we read that, " must or new wine denotes evil pro- 
duced by falses." (A. C. 2465.) And again, "That wine [vinum 
musturn\ signifies the interior false principle, and new wine 
[mustutn] the exterior false principle shown." (A. E. 141, 960.) 

In the Proverbs of Solomon, we are clearly shown that, in his 
day, they had two kinds of wine — the one good and the other 
bad. (Prov. ix. 2.) "Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath 
hewn out her seven pillars ; she hath killed her beasts ; she hadi 
mingled her wine ; she hath also furnished her table." Here, 
then, he manifestly refers to a good kind of wine, which, when 
mingled with water, as was their custom in tliose days, as we 
shall see with their wine preserved by boiling, was every way a 
suitable article for a drink and for table use. But of a very 
different kind of wine we read. in Prov. xxiii. 29, 30, 31. 
"Who hath woe? who hath sorrows? who hath contentions? 
who hath babbling? who hath wounds without cause? who hath 
redness of eyes ? They that tarry long at the wine ; they that 



TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 49 

go to seek mixed wine. Look not thou upon the wine when it 
is red, when it giveth his color in the cup, when it moveth 
itself aright. At the last it biteth like a serpent and stingeth 
like an adder." How wonderfully do these ancient Proverbs 
describe the effects of intoxicating wines seen to-day, as in 
former times. How good and safe the command of total absti- 
nence, which the wise man gives in the above strong language. 

"The condemnation of wine by the leading prophets," says the 
Rev. Dr. Samson, "is imiversal. Jeremiah pictures *the man 
whom wine hath overcome' (xxiii. 9), and 'nations drunk with 
wine' (li. 7). Ezekiel reproduces the law 'neither shall any 
priest drink wine' (xliv. 21). Zechariah declares that the 
Israelites in their moral abandonment at Christ's coming would 
be like men 'drinking' to drown sensibility, who 'make a noise 
through wine.' Zechariah puts the healthful tirosh, 'new wine,' 
which maidens at the Messiah's coming will partake, into direct 
contrast with the yayitiy or intoxicating 'wine,' which 'noisy* 
brawlers will drink (ix. 15, 17). Haggai mentions it among the 
simple natural products of the land of Israel in the latter day 
(i. 11). Jeremiah as the compiler of tfae Kings, and Ezra of the 
Chronicles, mentions tirosh as an article to which there is a return 
after reformation under Hezekiah and Josiah \2 Kings xviii. 32 ; 
2 Chron. xxxi. 5 ; xxxii. 28) ; and Nehemiah cites it in almost 
every allusion to the products of the field, as if the return from 
their captivity brought a return among the Israelites to the use 
of simple, unfermented wine " (Nehemiah v. 11 ; x. 37, 39 ; xiii, 
5. 12). 

"It is worthy of note," says the Rev. W. M. Thayer, "that the 
Bible supports the view that alcohol is poison. The Hebrew 
word for 'poison' is khamah. This word is found in the two 
following passages with others : ' Adder's poison is under their 
lips.* (Ps. cxl. 3). 'Their win^ is the poison of dragons.* 
(Deut. xxxii. 33.) If the idea of 'poison' is found in the first 
passage, so it is in the second. Hence some commentators 
translate the passage in Habakkuk ii. 15, thus : * Woe unto him 
3 



5Q TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 

that giveth his neighbor drink, that putteth thy khamah (poison) 
to him!' Instead of 'bottle^' St. Jerome's version has it 
'poison,' 'gall.' Montanus has it, 'thy poison.^ Dr. John Gill 
says, the word is sometimes translated, 'thy gall,' 'thy poison.' 
Parkhurst defines khamah^ 'inflammatory poison.' Archbishop 
Newcome has 'gall,' 'poison.' The Bible declares that wine 
'biteth like a serpent and stingeth like an adder;' in which text 
there is no sense, unless we have in view the idXA poison which 
these reptiles eject with their bite. Dr. John Mair, of Edinburgh, 
staff-surgeon to her Britannic Majesty's army, remarks upon this 
passage : ' Is there not something to be gathered from this sin- 
gular fact? Does it not tend to show that alcohol is no ordinary 
poison; but that it possesses qualities assimilating it to the 
poison of serpents, which render it peculiarly the enemy of man, 
to be shunned by him as venomous reptiles are, almost instinct- 
ively ?' " — Communion Wine and Bible Temperance. 

NEW WINE IN OLD BOTTLES. 

We present the following extracts from the little book entitled 
"Holy Scripture and Temperance," by Canon Hopkins : 

" It seems to have become an almost universal habit to take 
for granted that whenever wine is mentioned in Holy Writ, an 
intoxicating drink is intended. Of course, it is well known that 
intoxicating wine is very often spoken of in Holy Scripture, 
although invariably some cautionary or condemnatory language 
is appended, whenever its power to produce drunkenness is 
recognized. This fact creates a presumption that Holy Scripture 
does not sanction or justify the habitual use of intoxicating wine. 
But this presumption would be very weak, if it were not sup-. 
ported by any other facts. Is it, then, supported in any other 
way? Most readers wiU be ready to dismiss the question at 
once. Wine is wine, they will urge, and it is absurd to pretend 
that it is or can be anything else. There is, however, only one pas- 
sage in Holy Scripture which gives any insight into the chemical 
properties of the wine which was then in common use, and this 
is in the New Testament. Our Lord, speaking of the wine ^hich 



NEW WINE IN OLD BOTTLES. $1 

was in use at the period when He lived and taught, sa)rs on one 
occasion : 

"'No man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new 
wine will burst the bottles, and be spilled, and the bottles shall 
perish. But new wine must be put into new bottles ; and both 
are prese^ed. No man also having drunk old wine, straightway 
desireth new ; for he saith. The old is better.' (St. Luke v. 37- 
39 ; compare St. Matt. ix. 17, and St. Mark ii. 22.) 

"Three properties of wine are here spoken of; and spoken of 
as being perfectly familiar to the experience of all persons who 
have anything to do with wine : 

" I. New wine put into new bottles will keep without danger 
either to the wine or to the bottles. 

" 2. New wine put into old bottles will not keep, but will in 
some way burst and destroy the botdes, and will run out and be 
spilled. 

" 3. The wine is mellowed by being kept, and acquires by age 
a more attractive flavor. 

"Where, then, can we find a liquid which fulfills these three 
conditions ? 

"Everybody knows very well that modem still wine, whether 
new or old, may be put with perfect security into any kind of 
bottle whatever, and has no tendency to burst the bottle. 

"Sparkling wines could not be safely put into leather bottles at 
all, either new or old. Even with thick glass bottles, there is a 
great destruction of botties and loss of wine in the factories where 
these wines are made and prepared for the market. 

"It seems, then, that the wine referred to by our Lord must 
have possessed chemical properties very different from those of 
modem wines. Wines in which the fermentation has ceased, 
still wines, have no properties remaining in them which would 
render it unsafe to put them into any bottles, new or old, which 
are sound and fitted to receive them. Such wines have no ten- 
dency to burst botdes. The other kind of wines, sparkling or 
effervescing wines, are not fit to be put into leather bottles at alL 



52 TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 

The carbonic acid gas with which they are charged would distend 
and crack the leathe»- or burst open the seams. 

" What, then, was this wine which would be safely preserved 
in new bottles, but would ferment and cause old bottles to burst ? 
The only answer is, that it was wine, the juice of the grape, 
which was as yet unfermentedy and contained no alcohol what- 
ever ! 

" It is well known that extensive wine-growers keep tons of 
unfermented grape juice, and some of it for as long as ten years. 
It is well known that the ancients kept unfermented grape juice, 
preserved in its sweet state for a full year, and called it semper 
mustum. It is a fact that at this very day, both in France and in 
the East, unfermented wine is made and drunk, and sometimes 
kept for months or years. It is also a fact that to those who 
drink it the flavor appears to become more mellowed and grate- 
ful by the influence of time ; so that no one who drinks this old 
wine straightway desires new, for he says, The old is better. 

" In this wine, in this must is found a liquid which perfectly 
fulfills the three conditions which are demanded by the terms of 
our Lord's parable. 

" I. If this wine, properly prepared, be put intanew bottles, 
it will keep for any length of time without fermenting. 

" 2. If, however, this prepared must be put into a leather skin 
which has before contained wine, fermentation will necessarily 
ensue. Minute portions of albuminoid matter would be left 
adhering to the skin, and receive yeast germs from the air, and 
keep them in readiness to set up fermentation in the new unfer- 
mented contents of the skin. For as soon as the unfermented 
grape juice was introduced, the yeast germs would begin to grow 
in the sugar and to develop carbonic dioxide. If the must con- 
tained one-fifth sugar, it would develop forty-seven times its 
volume of the gas, and produce a pressure of 34.3 atmospheres, 
/. ^., 1,300 lbs. to the square inch, about ten times the pressure 
which an ordinary high-pressure steam-engine has to withstand. 
No leathern bottle, new or old, could endure this enormous ten- 
sion ! The bottle would burst and the wine would be spilled. 



NEW WINE IN OLD BOTTLES. 53 

"3. The must, properly enclosed and kept, improves in quality 
and flavor. It is used by modem Turks in many parts of the 
East to this day ; and either alone or diluted with water makes a 
palatable, grateful, and cheering beverage. The same wine has 
been imported into England in casks. Non-alcoholic wine has 
been largely and successfully prescribed for fever, consumption, 
and dyspepsia, from some form of which latter malady Timothy 
may have been suffering when St. Paul recommended him to 
'drink no longer water,' but to 'use a little wine.* 

" Let the reader observe that it is not here asserted that 
this must was the wine to which our Lord referred. It 
would be halting logic to argue that because the liquid may 
have been must, therefore it was must. Here, however, is 
a wine which entirely fulfills the three conditions necessary 
to make our Lord's parable really pertinent and applicable to 
the lesson he was teaching at the time. Unless some other 
liquid also called wine can be identified as possessing the 
three properties mentioned above, a candid inquirer will feel 
that a case (bordering closely upon actual demonstration) has 
been made out ; and that he is almost driven to conclude that 
the wine, which was present to the mind of Jesus when He thus 
spoke, and which was familiar to the experience of all to whom 
He was then speaking, was unfermented and non-intoxicating 
wine. 

" It must always be insisted upon, and it ought always to be 
remembered, that 'wine' in Holy Scripture is a general and an 
inclusive term. It is manifest that some wine mentioned in Holy 
Scripture was intoxicating ; but it is certain the word wine is also 
used for the fresh unfermented juice of the grape, and for the 
must or sweet wine or new wine which was not intoxicating. 
The finiit of the vine and the juice of the grape are symbols of 
heavenly blessings ; the fiery cup which results from fermentation 
is the type of the fierce wrath of God ! 

"When we compare the two assertions, 'Wine is a mocker,' 
and 'Wine maketh glad the heart of man,' it is scarcely possible 



54 - TWO KINDS OF GRAPES, MUST, AND WINE. 

to believe that the word ^wine^ means the same identical thing 
in both sentences. Yet it seems to be generally assumed that it 
does. Why should such an assumption be made without any 
attempt at proof? Is it usual for any accurate writer to employ a 
word in this way, unless he is aware, and his readers are aware, 
that the word is in fact used to describe two different things ? 
Much less is it to be thought that holy men of God, who spake 
as they were moved by the Holy Ghost, could speak otherwise 
than accurately. Now, the juice of the grape in its natural state 
is wholesome and nutritive. It is a cordial and a tonic. But 
after fermentation it loses most, if not all, its nutritious qualities, 
and is indeed a 'mocker.' It is pleasant to the taste, refreshing 
at first to the spirits, but very soon *it bites like a serpent and 
stings like an adder.* The real question is very simple. It is a 
question of fact. Is the word 'wine* used in Holy Scripture as 
the name of both these liquids? That it is so used no impartial 
inquirer can justly deny." — Holy Scripture and Temperance. 

We are told by Swedenborg that a bottle signifies the mind of 
man, because that is the recipient of truth or falsity as a bottle 
contains wine (A. E. 376) ; also bottles signify the knowledges 
which contain truths (A. E. 316) ; new bottles signify the pre- 
cepts and commands of the Lord to the Christian Church ; old 
bottles signify the statutes and judgments of the Jewish Church. 
(A. E. 376.) Ferment signifies the false of evil. (D. P. 284.) 

From the above we can readily see why, if we attempt to intro- 
duce the truths of this new age into minds, however empty they 
may be, which simply contain the old knowledge of a past age, 
all the truths of which have been destroyed by the false of evil 
until evils are justified and approved, the attempt is a failiure ; for if 
we ever succeed in getting some ideas into the knowledges already 
existing in the mind, evil or perverted appetites and passions assail 
until the knowledges are torn asunder and the truths cast out. 

Before new truths can be received, and be retained, there 
must be new bottles, derived from the letter of the Word and 
confirmed thereby, otherwise the bottles will be rent and the truth 



NEW WINE IN OLD BOTTLES. 55 

cast forth. Men must have some desire to know the truth and 
obey it, before they can see the truth or receive it upon so plain a 
question as the duty of total abstinence from intoxicating drinks. 

So on this wine question : true doctrine must be drawn from 
the hteral sense of the Word and confirmed by it ; for, we are 
taught, that : 

" Doctrine is not only to be drawn from the literal sense of 
the Word, but it is also to be confirmed by that sense" (S. S. 54) ; 
also, that "The doctrine of genuine truth may be fully drawn 
from that sense." — Ibid (55). Moreover, "True doctrine can- 
not be collected fi-om the spiritual sense of the Word" on the 
wine question any more than it can be upon any other doctrine 
of the Church ; for " Doctrine is not attainable by means of that 
sense, but only capable of receiving illustration and confirmation 
firomit."— 7^/^(56). 

Since the Last Judgment, the Lord has poured out bounti- 
fully good and true principles upon the human race. This 
influx fi*om God has not been limited to any nation, class, or 
religion, but has come down out of the new heavens to the 
imiversal man, according to efflux. It has quickened his facul- 
ties in the arts, sciences, mechanics, and agriculture. It has 
stirred up the spirit of research in all directions. Men of all 
religions, moved by this divine spirit, have been led to examine ' 
the Word of God on the wine question. They have brought to 
their aid the divinely appointed handmaid, the natural sciences; 
which sciences, as far as they are true, form a plane of life for 
the influx of Divine Truth out of heaven. 

By means of science we understand the chemistry of wine not 
fermented, and the chemistry of wine fermented ; we also know 
something of the effects of both upon the human body, in health 
and in sickness. We know that alcohol belongs to therapeutics 
and the arts, and not to dietetics. And when it is introduced 
into a healthy human body under the name of wine, whisky, or 
brandy, it flows into its passions and lusts, and excites evil dispo- 
sitions which lead to all forms of vice. 



56 TWO KINDS OF STRONG DRINK. 



STRONG DRINK. 

When strong drink is named in the Word, the natural inference 
is by the men of this perverted age, that reference is made to 
alcoholic dnnks or distilled Uquors, for such drinks to-day are 
alone regarded as strong drinks ; but when we remember that 
the art of distilling was not discovered until about the sixth 
centiuy of the Christian era, except perhaps in a rude form in J 
China and Ceylon, we know, with reasonable certainty, that such 
drinks were not meant. The ancients unquestionably had, as we 
have to-day, other fermented drinks which would cause intoxica- 
tion besides wine. Says the Rev. Wm. Ritchie, of Scotland ; 
*' Shechar means luscious drink, or sweet syrup, especially of sugar 
or honey, of dates or of the palm-tree. The Hebrew word is usu- 
ally rendered by the translators of our English Bible * strong drink ' 
This is not a happy rendering of the original term. The epithet 
* strong,* for which there is nothing equivalent in the Hebrew, 
conveys the idea that the drink is highly intoxicating. But 
Shechar, of itself conveys no such idea. We examine the pas- 
sages where it is used, and we find it in numerous instances 
spoken of along with Yain; and, as we know this latter word is 
a general term to denote the juice of the grape, we conclude 
that Shechar is a general name for liquor made from dates, grain, 
or other fruits, the produce of the vine excepted. We have no 
word in our language equivalent to the Hebrew term Shechar ; 
and it had been better, if, like some others of this class, it had 
been left untranslated in our version of the Scriptures. In this 
case, it would not have suggested to the mind a strong intoxicat- 
ing drink. * This is true,* says Moses Stuart, ' of neither Yain 
nor Shechar. Both words are generic. The first means vinous 
liquor of any kind and every kind. The second means a cor- 
responding liquor fi-om dates and other fruits, or from several 
kinds of grain. Both liquors have in them the saccharine 
principle^ and, therefore, they may become alcoholic, but both 
may be kept and used in an unfermented state.* " — Scripture Tes- 
timony against Wine, 



TWO KINDS OF STRONG DRINTC. 57 

If the words in the original Sacred Scriptures, which have been 
translated by the term strong drink, in contrast with wine, ever 
denote what we understand by the word strong, it is evident that 
reference must have been had to some quality aside from that 
which resulted from fermentation ; for it is reasonably certain that 
they had ho drink stronger to cause intoxication than fermented 
wine. It is supposed by some writers tha,t such drinks were* 
prepared by mixing various medicinal or stimulating substances 
with fermented drinks, which, to say the least, is a somewhat 
unreasonable supposition. While opium is. strorig to stupify, 
ipecac to vomit, jalap to purge, mustard to irritate the skin and 
mucous membranes, nux vomica to cause convulsions, and 
alcohol to cause unnatural excitement and drunkenness, none of 
these substances are strong in a genuine sense ; for while they are 
strong to cause suffering and disease, they are not strong to 
supply the ordinary wants of the body, by giving nourishment 
and thus strength. The very fact that strong drink in the Word 
sometimes has a good signification, and is classed with oxen, 
sheep and wine, as in Deut. xiv. 26, is evidence that in an 
unpolluted and unperverted state it could neither have been 
fermented, nor have been a drugged drink ; therefore Swedenborg 
says : " That strong drink signifies the truth of the natural man 
derived from the spiritual." (Swedenborg's Index to the A. E.) 
It will be seen that this signification is precisely what we should 
expect, if instead of an unnaturally stimulating, irritating, and 
exciting fluid, it was really what its name signifies, a nourishing, 
strengthening fluid, giving healthy substance to the body. 

Now, we have a plenty of drinks in use to-day, to some of 
which Rev. Wm. Ritchie alludes above, which are really strong in 
a good and true sense ; strong to nourish, and give strength 
without causing unnatural excitement, which consequently have 
unquestionably a good correspondence. Of such drinks we 
have milk ; gruels made with milk or water from the flour or meal 
of our different grains, or by boiling rice or barley ; and the 
ancients, by adding their sweet boiled grape juice or good wine, 
had a palatable and delightful drink, entirely harmless, and every 



58 TWO KINDS OF STRONG DRINK. 

way useful. The Scotsman of to-day, while resting from his 
work, readily prepares a really strong beverage by adding oatmeal 
to the water which he drinks. The early settlers of New 
England had such a drink in their bean porridge, which they 
carried into the fields for their dinners. 

But we all know that these healthy, life-giving drinks, like 
unfermented wine, may become polluted by fermentation ; or 
may be mingled with fermented wine, and thus become injurious, 
poisonous, and destructive when used as drink ; consequendy 
Swedenborg tells us "That to mingle strong drink signifies to 
confirm fetses." (Swedenborg's Index to A. E. 379.) 



To fill a vacant space on this page, the following extract from 
a brief reply of the Rev. Theodore L. Cuyler to Dr. Crosby's 
open letter, is inserted : 

" As to this whole contested question of the relation of God's Word to 
the use of alcoholic beverages, we believe the following positions impreg- 
nable : 

" I. The Bible in various passages points out the evils of intoxicating 
drinks. It never pronounces a blessing oh intoxicants, but often warns us 
against tamptring with them, 

" 2. The Bible in several passages commends abstinence from alcoholic 
beverages. But there is not a single line in God's Word which condenms 
total abstinence. 

" 3. The Bible is to be studied as a whole; and the whole spirit of this 
blessed Word ftrom heaven is the spirit of self-control, sobriety, purity, 
avoidance of temptation, and of self-denial for the sake of our fellow-men. 

" On these views of God's Word the total abstinence army are an unit; 
against these views the " gates of hell " can never prevail. But even if the 
Bible did not contain a single syllable about v/ine or strong drink, we have 
an inexhaustible armory of arguments for entire abstinence in science, medi- 
cal testimony, common sense, and the first principles of philanthropy. 

" Chancellor Crosby's wild assault on our reform is already working a 
vast benefit. The volume of replies issued from our publication house ought 
to be circulated by the thousands." 



CHAPTER V. 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 



We have seen that, from a careful examination of the Sacred 
Scriptures, we have an abundance of evidence that two kinds of 
winCj one good and the other bad, are mentioned therein. Says 
the Rev. Dr. Herrick Johnson, of Philadelphia : 

" Now, what if there is another kind of wine spoken of in the 
Word of God that cannot possibly be intoxicating, where ferment- 
ation and the consequent presence of alcohol are out of the 
question — what then ? Why, is it not reasonable and consistent, 
the demand alike of common sense and common conscience, 
to regard this as the wine commended in Scripture as a blessing 
making glad the heart of man. 

" Gedaliah, made governor by the King of Babylon over the 
cities of Judah, thus commanded the Jews (Jer. xl. lo) : 'Gather 
ye wine, and summer fruits, and oil, and put them in your 
vessels.* And the record is, 'they gathered wine and summer 
fruits very much.* The Bible also speaks of 'presses bursting 
with new wine,* of ' wine found in the cluster ; * and it says of 
this wine, and of this only, and in this very connection, ' a bless- 
ing is in it.* Here is frequent reference to the pure, unfermented 
juice of the grape as just trodden out of the presses, just gathered 
from the vintage, and even as found in the cluster. And here 
this grape juice is repeatedly, and by the Jews themselves, in 
their own Scriptures, called wine both yayin and tirosh, 

"There is no exploit of logic that can make any sane man 
believe this to be the very same wine elsewhere called 'a mocker.* 
The deceitful, subtle, serpent element has not yet entered it ; 
for alcohol requires time and a process for its formation. It is 
the simple, unfern:iented juice of the grape, just as cider right out 
of th^ press is the simple, unfermented juice of the apple. And 

(63) 



6o WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

as such, God says, a blessing is in it. Here, then, is the scrip- 
tural distinction between wine and wine. It is not made to suit, 
a modern exigency. God's Word makes it. Is it only a 'hair- 
breadth* distinction? Is there nothing more than that between 
' a blessing* and ' a mocker ' ? Each was called wine by the Jews> 
because wine \yayin'] is a generic word applied to the juice of 
the grape in all conditions, whether sour or sweet, old or new, 
fennented or unfermented. 

" L»et one thing more be now proved, and the whole case is 
too clear for question. Were the ancients in the habit of 
preserving and using as such, free from fermentation, this juice 
of the grape which they called wine? Beyond all doubt they 
were. The evidence is to be found in almost any classical 
authority. So say Plato, Columella, Pliny, Aristode. So indicate 
\, Horace, Homer, Plutarch. Some of these ancient writers give 
in detail the very processes of boiling, filtering, and "sulphuriza- 
tion by which the wines were preserved from fermentation* 
Anthon, in his 'Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities,' 
Archbishop Potter in his 'Grecian Antiquities,' Smith in his 
' Dictionary of the Bible,' and many other competent scholars 
confirm and support this position. Moies Stuart, that prince of 
philologists, says, ' Facts show that the ancients not only preserved 
wine unfermented, but regarded it as of a higher flavor and 
finer quality than fermented wine. Facts show tli^ it was, and 
might be, drunk at pleasure without any inebriation whatever. 
On the other hand, facts show that any considerable quantity of 
fermented wine did and would produce inebriation.' There is 
no ancient custom with a better amount and character of proof 
than this." 

Rev. Dr. E. Nott, late President of Union College, in his 
fourth lecture says: "That unintoxicating wines existed from 
remote antiquity, and were held in high estimation by the wise 
and good, there can be no reasonable doubt. The evidence is 
unequivocal and plenary." * * * "We know that then, as now, 
inebriety existed ; and then, as now, the taste for inebriating wines 
may have been the prevalent taste, and intoxicating wines the 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 6 1 

popular wines. Still unintoxicating wines existed, and there were 
men who preferred such wines, and who have left on record the 
avowal of that preference." — NoU{ljon, ed. p. 85). 

Professor Moses Stuart, says: "Wine and strong drink are a 
good, a blessing, a token of divine favor, and to be ranked 
with com and oil. The same substances are also an evil. Their 
use is prohibited ; and woe is denounced to all who seek for 
them. Is there a contradiction here — ^a paradox incapable of 
any satisfactory solution ? Not at all. We have seen that these 
substances were employed by the Hebrews in two different 
states ; the one was a fermented state, the other an unfermented 
one. ♦ ♦ ♦ Is there any serious difficulty now in acquitting 
the Scriptures of contradiction in respect to this subject ? I do 
not find any. ♦ ♦ ♦ i can only say, that to me it seems 
plain — so plain that no wa)rfaring man need to mistake it. 

"My final conclusion is this, viz. : that, whenever the Scrip- 
tures speak of wine as a comfort, a blessing, or a libation to 
God, and rank it with such articles as com and oil, they mean — 
they can mean — only such wine as contained no alcohol that 
could have a mischievous tendency ; that wherein they denounce 
it, prohibit it, and connect it . with dmnkenness and revelling ; 
they can mean only alcoholic or intoxicating wine, 

" If I take the position that God's Word and works entirely 
harmonize, I must take the position that the case before us is as 
I have represented it to be.** 

Rev. Dr. William Patton, in his excellent work on "Bible 
Wines and Wines of the Ancients," says ; 

"We cannot imagine that Pliny, Columella, Varro, Cato, and 
others were either cooks or writers of cook-books, but were 
intelligent gentlemen moving in the best circles of society. So 
when they, with minute care give the recipes for making sweet 
wine, which will remain so during the year, and the processes 
were such as to prevent fermentation, we are persuaded that 
these were esteemed in their day. That they were so natural 
and so simple as to like these sweet, harmless beverages is rather 
in their favor^ and not to be set down against them. That there 



62 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

were men in their day, as there are many in ours, who loved and 
Used intoxicating drinks, is a fact which marked their degradation. 

" Sweet is grateful to the new-bom infant. It is loved by the 
youth, by the middle-aged, and by the aged. This taste never 
dies. In strict keeping with this, we find that the articles, in their 
great variety, which constitute the healthful diet of man, are 
palatable by reason of their sweetness. Even of the flesh of fish 
and birds and animals we say, * How sweet ! ' 

"Whilst this taste is universal, it is intensified in hot climates. 
It is a well- authenticated fact that the love of sweet drinks is a 
passion among Orientals. For alcohol, in all its combinations, 
the taste is unnatural and wholly acquired. To the natural 
instinct it is universally repugnant." 

After speaking of the pure blood of the grape, the Rev. Dn 
Samson says : 

"The second product of the grape, and 'next in purity, is 
doubtless the debsh. When, by English and other translators of 
the Reformation period, this word was rendered, according to 
the best lights of their day, 'honey,' — ^the East was shut up to 
Christian scholars. It was a sU-iking ordering of Providence that 
just before the expedition of Napoleon into Egypt, about a. d. 
1800, which led on to the opening of the Bible lands to Christain 
exploration, a leader among German rationalists, replied to by 
Hengstenberg, maintained that the writer of the Book of Genesis 
could have known nothing about Egypt, or he would not have 
suggested that Jacob sent down a present of 'honey' to Pharaoh 
(Gen. xliii. 11). The modem traveller finds ever)rwhere in the 
ancient land of Jacob's inheritance that the juice of the sweet 
grifpe is boiled down to a syrup, still called by the old name dibs^ 
whose spicy and nectar-like sweetness makes it one of the most 
delicious of condiments; while, at the very location whence 
Jacob sent it to Pharaoh, at Hebron, it is prepared in great 
quantities and sent to Egypt as an article of trade. 

" It is this syrup with which it is repeatedly declared by Moses 
the land of promise 'flowed* (Ex. iii. 8), etc. ; and though the 
honey of bees, gathered mainly from the grapes, is, when flowing 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 63 

from the comb, called by the same name, because it is substan- 
tially the same article (as Jud. xiv. 8, i Sam. xiv. 25, 29), yet the 
debsh of Moses is almost always the product of the grape pre- 
pared by boiling. In only three cases, out of nearly fifty, does 
the word refer to the product prepared by bees rather than 1^ 
man." 

" There is abimdance of evidence," says the Rev. Dr. Patton, 
"that the ancients mixed their wines with water; not because 
they were so strong, with alcohol, as to require tiilution, but 
because, being rich syrups, they needed water to prepare them 
for drinking. Tlie quantity of water was regulated by the rich- 
ness of the wine and the time of year." 

" Those ancient authors who treat upon domestic manners 
abound with the allusions to this usage. Hot water, tepid 
water, or cold water was used for the dilution of wine according 
to the season. ' Hesiod prescribed, during the summer months, 
three parts of water to one of wine.' ' Nicochares considers two 
parts of wine to five of water as the proper proportion.* 
'According to Homer, Pramnian and Meronian wines required 
twenty parts of water to one of wine. Hippocrates considered 
twenty parts of water to one of the Thracian wine to be the 
proper beverage.* 'Theophrastus says the wine at Thasos is 
wonderfully delicious.* Athanaeus states that the Taeniotic has 
^ch a degree of richness or fatness that when mixed with water 
it seemed gradually to be diluted, much in the same way as Attic 
honey well mixed." — Bible Commentary /'p. 17). 

How many of the advocates of fermented wine, of our day, 
would be satisfied with one part of their wine to twenty parts of 
water, or even one of wine to five of water? But we can readily 
understand how a man, of unperverted taste, would be abundantly 
satisfied with one part of the thick boiled wines of the ancients 
to twenty of water. 

" The annexed engraving of the Thermopolium is copied from 
the scarce work of Andreas Baccius {De Nat Vino rum His Ly 
Rome, 1597, lib. iv., p. 178). The plan was obtained by him- 
self, assisted by two antiquaries, fi-om the ruins of the Diocletian 



64 



WINES OF. THE ANCIENTS. 



Baths (Rome). Nothing can more clearly exhibit the contrast 
between the ancient wines and those of modern Europe than 
the widely different modes of treating them. The hot water 
was often necessary, says Sir Edward Barry, to dissolve their 
more inspissated and old wines." — Kitto (ii. p. 956). 




The prohibition of intoxicating wines to women was enftirced 
by the severest penalties. " Plato, Aristotle, Plutarch, and others 
have noticed the hereditary transmission of intemperate propen- 
sities ; and the legislation that imposed abstinence upon women 
had unquestionably in view the greater vigor of the offspring — ► 
the ' mens sana in corpore sand* (a healthy mind in a healthy 
body)." — Bible Commentary (p. 72). 

Surely if fermented wine were a good and useful article, neces- 
sary for health and happiness, women who are bearing, nursing, 
and rearing children would seem to need it if any one needs it ; 
but the ancients did not think that they needed fermented wine. 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 65 

ANCIENT METHODS OF PRESERVING WINE SO AS TO PREVENT 
FERMENTATION. 

. " The laws of fermentation are laws of nature, and work always 
under the same circumstances. 

" I. There must be saccharine matter and gluten. 

"2. The temperature must not be below 50^ nor above 75° 
Fahrenheit. Under 50° it does not ferment, over 75^* it turns 
to vinegar by a first and direct fermentation. 

"3. It must not be too thick, like syrup. It must be of the 
proper consistency. 

" Experience demonstrates that grape juice never undergoes 
vinous fermentation in the grape. Science says that this is 
prevented by the absence of two conditions ; 

" I. The gluten is deposited in separate sacs, or cells, and so 
kept from the saccharine matter. 

" 2. The saccharine matter is kept from the oxygen of the 
atmosphere, which is needed to change the saccharine matter 
before it can set up the process of vinous fermentation. Grapes 
rot on the vine, but do not turn to alcohol. Nature never pro- 
duces alcohol. ^ 

" It is also matter of experience that a warm climate produces 
sweet fruits ; a cold season gives us sour fruits. The change is 
manifest. 

" Palestine is a hot climate. During the season for gathering 
the grapes the temperature is seldom as low as 100°. Nature 
provides for souring and decaying the grapes, but does not 
provide for vinous fermentation, which is impossible at a temper- 
ature above 75°. 

"Were the Jews and ancients acquainted with any process for 
preserving the juice of the grape, the unfermented wine ? They 
used various processes to secure this result : 

" I. They excluded the air from the sweet wine. 

" 2. They boiled down the juice to the consistency of syrup. 

" 3. They filtered it and so broke its power by removing its 
gjuten. 



66 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

" 4. They kept it cool and excluded from the air till the gluten 
subsided, then drew off the wine, which was safe from fermenta- 
tion. 

"5. They also used sulphur to neutralise the yeast or gluteir." 

" Proof is overwhelming that they did use these modes of 
preserving the unfermented wines." — ff^nes of the Bible, by Rev. 
Dr. a H, Fowler. 

" Some persons tell us," says the Rev. William Ritchie, of 
Scotland, " this fermentation is a vital principle, and that there- 
fore the thing produced is a good creature of God. 'They 
forget entirely,' says Liebig, 'that the fermentation of grape 
juice begins with a chemical action^ which is opposed to a vital 
one. ' It is contrary to all sober rules of research to regard the 
vital process of an animal or a plant as the cause of fermentation.' 
'The opinion that they take any share in the morbid process 
must be rejected as an hypothesis destitute of all support.' 'In 
all fungi, analysis has detected the presence of sugar, whi^, 
during their vital process, is not resolved into alcohol and car- 
bonic acid, but, after their death, from the moment that a change 
in their color and consistency is perceived, the vinous fermenta- 
tion sets in, it is the very reverse of the vital process to which 
this must be ascribed.' ^ Life is opposed to putrefaction^ " 

Count Chaptal, the eminent French chemist, says : " Nature 
never forms spirituous liquors ; she rots the grape upon the 
branch, but it is art which converts the juice into (alcoholic) 
wine." It is an invention of man. 

Dr. Henry Monroe, in his Lecture on Alcohol, sa)rs : " Alcohol 
is nowhere to be found in any product of nature ; was never 
created by God ; but is essentially an artificial thing prepared by 
man through the destructive process of fermentation." 

Although we called attention to several of these methods, and 
gave the testimony of ancient writers upon this subject, and 
showed conclusively from their writings that some of their most 
celebrated wines, especially their old wines, were unfermented, 
atid consequently unintoxicating ; still not a single New Church 
writer, in replying to us, so far as we are aware, has even noticed 



WINES OF THE ANCrENTS. 67 

this testimony; but aU have assumed, without any hesitation, that 
there was no other wine used at the various periods when the 
Sacred Scriptures were written but fermented wine. 
. We gave the testimony of Horace, bom 65 b. c, that there 
was no wine sweeter to drink- than the Lesbian, and that it 
was perfectly harmless and would not produce intoxication. Of 
Aristotle, bom 384 years b. c, that the wine of Arcadia was so 
thick that it was necessary to scrape it from the skin bottles in 
which it was contahied, and to dissolve the scrapings in water 
before drinking it ; which, of course, is conclusive evidence that 
it was not fermented, as fermentation destroys the glutinous 
matter of wine, and thus makes the wine thin. We gave also the 
testimony of Virgil, bom 70 b. c, of Columella, cotemporaneous 
with the Apostles, of Plutarch and Pliny, that in their day, it was 
customary to preserve wine by boiling it ; and also the testimony 
of many other ancient authors that unfermented wines were pre- 
served and used, and were highly esteemed, and regarded and 
spoken of as the best wines. It is difficult to see how any man, 
who desires to know the tmth upon this subject, can disregard 
all this testimony ; but, as our New Church writers have done so, 
it seems necessary to produce further testimony, which we shall 
do without repeating to any considerable extent, the quotations 
from ancient and more recent writers contained in our tract 

PRESERVING WINE AND PREVENTING FERMENTATION BY BOIUNG. 

Among the ancients, Pliny, Columella, Varo and Cato were 
men of distinction, and they gave minute attention to the preser- 
vation of unfermented wines. 

Boiling the recently expressed juice of grapes was undoubtedly 
one of the earliest and most .frequent methods of preserving wine 
from fermentation. 

" Archbishop Potter, bom a.d. 1674, in his ' Grecian Antiqui- 
ties' (Edmburgh edition, 1813, vol. ii. p. 360), says; 'The 
Lacedaemonians used tQ boil their wines upon the fire till the 
fifth part was consumed ; then after four years were expired 
began to drink them.* He refers to Democritus, a celebrate^ 



68" WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

philosopher, who travelled over the greater part of Europe, Asia, 
and Africa, and who died 361 b. c. ; also, to Palladius, a Greek 
physician, as making a similar statement. These ancient autho- 
rities called the boiled juice of the grape wine, and the learned 
archbishop brings forward their testimony without the slightest 
intimation that the boiled juice was not wine in the judgment of 
the ancients. '* — Bible Wines. 

Adams* "Roman Antiquities," first published in Edinburgh, 
1 791, on the authority of Pliny and Virgil, says : "In order to 
make wine keep, they used to boil \decoquerre~\ the must down 
to one-half, when it was called defrutum, to one- third, sapa. " 

"Virgil, the sweet poet of nature," says the Rev. Dr. G. W. 
Samson, "writing under Augustus, pictures (Georg. i. 295) the 
delight of the winter evenings in his own rural home ; when the 
laborer sat by the fire sharpening his tools ; and his wife, beguiling 
their common toil with her song, was boiling the * flowing sweet 
must/ \dulcis musti humorem] ; this picture revealing how the 
product of the grape was used by the simple children of nature 
at that day. 

"As artificial heating drives off water, whose presence is essen- 
tial to fermentation, the boiling of grape juice to a syrup, the 
deMs of the Hebrews and the dibs of the Arabs, prevents the 
formation of alcohol." 

"Pliny says, *some Roman wines were as thick as honey,' 
also that the 'Albanian wine was very sweet or luscious, and that 
it took the third rank among all the wines.' He also tells of a 
Spanish wine in his day, called 'inerticulum* — that is, would not 
intoxicate — from 'iners,' inert, without force or spirit, more 
properly termed 'justicus sobriani,' sober wine, which would 
not inebriate." — Anti-Bac, (p. 221). 

"Columella, who lived in the days of the Apostles, says the 
Greeks called this unintoxicating wine * Ameth5rston,' from 
Alpha, negative, and methusis, intoxicate — ^that is, a wine which 
would not intoxicate. He adds that it was 3. good wine, harmless, 
and called *iners,' because it would not affect the nerves, but at 
the same time it was not deficient in flavor." — A. B, (p. 221). 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 69 

Boiling is beyond question one of the best, if not the very best 
method of preserving wine, as the entire substance of the wine is 
preserved, with the exception of the water, which can be readily 
restored when it is required for use. In most of the other 
methods, where foreign substances are not used to prevent 
fermentation, the gluten, which is an important part of the fruit of 
the vine, is removed ; consequently we find that in all ages, even 
down to the present day, boiling has been a very firequent resort 
in wine-growing countries. 

Names may change, but substances do not change with the 
change of their names. Certain missionaries, a few years ago, 
declared that there were no unfermented wines used in Palestine 
at that day, and that by careful inquiry they could not hear of 
any such wines ; but it is evident, from the testimony which 
we shall produce from other missionaries and travellers, that if 
they had inquired for boiled grape juice or dibs, and had been 
familiar with the writings of the ancients who describe the method 
of boiling, and who called such boiled grape juice wine, and 
spoke of it as the best wine, they would have made no such 
sts^^aocnts a3 they did ; for they were undoubtedly honest, but 
lacking in a knowledge of the necessary facts, which would have 
enablt^ tbem to speak understandingly. The time was in those 
lands when fermented wine was not called wine at all, but it 
existed under other names, and unfermented wine was the wine ; 
and the fact that at the time the above missionaries wrote, fer- 
mented wine had come to be the only wine passing by the name 
of wine, does not destroy the fact that, notwithstanding their 
testimony, there is a wine to-day prepared precisely as the 
ancients in the days of the Apostles prepared their wine, which 
they called wine. Rev. H. Holmes, American missionary at Con- 
stantinople, in regard to the supposition that among the ancients 
the chief product of the vine was fermented wine, says :"N6w, as 
a resident in the East, we believe sufficient facts can be adduced 
to render it extremely probable that this supposition is erroneous, 
and that the fabrication of an intoxicating liquor was nafcr the 
chief object iox which the grape was cultivated among the Jews.^' 



7P WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

W. G. Brown, who travelled extensively in Africa, Egypt, and 
Syria, from a. d. 1792 to 1798, states that; "the wines of Syria 
are most of them prepared by boiling immediately after they are 
expressed from the grape, till they are considerably reduced in 
quantity, when they were put into jars or large bottles and pre- 
served for use." He adds, "There is reason to believe that this 
mode of boiling was a general practice among the ancients." 

Volney, 1788, in his "Travels in Syria," vol. ii. chap. 29, says: 
"The wines are of three sorts, the red, the white, and the yellow. 
The white, which are the most rare, are so bitter as to be dis- 
agreeable ; the two others, on the contrary, are too sweet and 
sugary. This arises from their being boiled, which makes them 
resemble the baked wines of Provence. The general custom of 
the country is to reduce the must to two-thirds of its quantity;" 
"The most esteemed is produced from the hillside of Zouk— 
it is too sugary." "Such are the wines of Lebanon, so boasted 
by Grecian and Roman epicures." " It is probable that the 
inhabitants of Lebanon have made no change in their ancient 
method of making wines." — Bacchus (p. 374, note). 

Dr. Bowring, in his report on the commerce of %ria, fm^es, 
as of excellent quality, a wine of Lebanon consuaied' in sortte 
of the convents of Lebanon, known by the name <^ mno d'or — 
golden wine. (Is this the yellow wine which Volney says is too 
sweet 2uid sugary?) But the Doctor adds, "that the habit of 
boiling \Yine is almost universal." — Kifto (ii. 956). 

Caspar Neumsui, M. D., Professor of Chemistry, Berlin, 1759, 
sa.ys : " It is observable that when sweet juices are boiled down 
to a thick consistence, they not only do not ferment in that 
state, but are not easily brought into fermentation when diluted 
with as much water as they had lost in the evaporation, or even 
with the very individual water that exhaled from them." — Nott 
(Lond. ed., p. 81). 

Dr. Thomson says : "The Moslems make no fermented wines ; 
they boil the juice down to preserve it, and they claim to have 
received this custom from the remotest antiquity." 



WINES OF THE ANCIENT& Ji 

PRESENT CUSTOMS IN WINE-GROWING COUNTRIES OF EUROPE AND 

ASIA. 

The late Rev. Dr. Duflfield, who travelled through Palestine, 
("Bible Rule of Temperance," p. i8o), says: "The modem 
Turks, w;hose religion forbids the use of fermented wine, make 
use of the inspissated juice of the grape, or 'must,' and carry it 
along with them in their journeys." 

Dr. Jacobus says : " All who know of the wines then used well 
understand the unfermented juice of the grape. The purest 
wines of Jerusalem and Lebanon, as we tasted them, were com- 
monly boiled and sweet, without intoxicating qualities such as we 
here get in liquors called wines. The boiling prevents fermenta- 
tation. Those were esteemed the best wines which were least 
strong." 

Rev. Dr. Eli Smith, a missionary in Syria, in the Bibliotheca 
Sacra for November, 1846, describes the methods of making 
wine in Mount Lebanon as numerous, but reduces them to three 
classes. First ; The simple juice of the grape is fermented. 
Second : The juice of the grape is boiled down before fermenta- 
tion. Third : The grapes are partially dried in the sun before 
being pressed. 

Dr. Duff, in \ki<t Missionary Record, 1840, describes his journey 
through France to India, and says : " Look at the peasant at his 
meals in the vine-bearing districts ! Instead of milk, he has a 
basin of pure unadulterated blood of the grape. In this, its 
native original state, it is a plain, simple, and wholesome liquid ; 
which, at every repast, becomes to the husbandman what milk is 
tp the shepherd ; not a luxury, but a necessary ; not an intoxi- 
cating, but a nutritive, beverage." 

In 1845, Captain Treatt wrote : "When on the south coast of 
Italy last Christmas, I inquired particularly about the wines in 
commoiyuse, and found that those esteemed the best were sweet 
and unintoxicating. The boiled juice of the grape is in common 
use in Sicily. The Calabrians keep their intoxicating and unin- 
toxicating wines in separate apartments. The bottles were gene- . 



72 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

rally marked. From inquiries, I found that unfermented wines 
were esteemed the most. It was drank mixed with water. 
Great pains were taken, in the vintage season, to have a good 
stock of it laid by. The grape Juice was filtered two or three 
times, and then bottled, and some put in casks and buried in 
the earth. Some keep it in water to prevent fermentation." — 
Dr. Lees* Works (vol. ii. p. 144). 

Mr. Alsop, a minister of the Society of Friends, wrote to Dr. 
Lees in 1861 ("Pre. Dis. of Bible Tem. Com." p. 34) : "The 
syrup of grape juice is an article of domestic manufacture in 
almost every house in the vine districts of the South of France. 
It is simply the juice of the grape boiled down to the consistence 
of treacle. * * * As to the use of ordinary wine, it is almost 
entirely confined to the men. It is proverbial that if a young 
woman is known to be in the habit of using it, she is unlikely to 
receive proposals of marriage." 

"The reader should bear in mind and particularly notice that 
a * thick syrup will not undergo vinous fermentation, and that an 
excess of sugar is unfavorable to this process.' But it will undergo 
the acetous, and become sour. This our wives understand. 
For, when their sweatmeats ferment, they do not produce alcohol, 
but become acid, sour. This is not a secondary, but the first 
and only fermentation — ^by the inevitable law that where there is 
a superabundance of saccharine matter and more than 75^ of 
heat, then the vinous fermentation does not take place, but the 
acetous will certainly and immediately commence." — Bible Wirus, 

PRESERVATION OF WINE BY EVAPORATION. 

" Evaporation, or perfect dryness, prevents every kind of fer- 
mentation (Watts, II. 635 ; Gmelin, vii. 100). This was easily 
attained by the wine being put in large bottles and suspended in 
the chimney, called fumarium. * Liquids evaporate at tempera- 
tures below their boiling point' (*Fownes* Chem.,' 10 ed.^ p. 46). 
The Oriental traveller, Mr. Buckingham ('Travels among Arab 
Tribes,' London, 1825, p. 137), was treated at Cufr Injey to cakes 
of wine, which he describes as a very curious article, probably 



WINES OF THE ANaENTS. 73 

resembling the dried wine of the ancients, quite hard and dry, in 
shape like a cucumber, capable of being kept fresh and good for 
many months — a welcome treat at all times, and particularly well 
adapted for sick or delicate persons who might require some 
grateful provision that could be carried in small compass without 
risk of injury on the journey. He also describes (p. 140) this 
dried wine as having the consistency of portable soup. Nor is 
solidity or perfect desiccation necessary, for fermentation demands 
a g^eat degree of liquidity, taking place only when the solution is 
sufficiently diluted with water (Watts, ii. 630 ; Gmelin, xv. 268)." 

Dr. Kerr, in his " Unfermented Wine a Fact,** says: "The 
Persians sometimes boil the duschab (a syrup of sweet wine or 
must) so long that they reduce it to a paste for the convenience 
of travellers, who lay in a stock of it for the journey, cutting it 
with a knife, and diluting it with water to serve as a drink.** — 
Travels in Muscovy^ Tartary, and Persia^ by Adam OieariuSy 
Ambassador for Holstein, by Wicquefort (lib. v. 802). 

Olearius adds : " One can reduce five hogsheads to one, say 
some chemists, and, amongst others, the celebrated Mr. Glaubei, 
by boiling the sweet wine or must down to a fifth part, because 
there is no apparent sign that the wine loses the character it pos- 
sessed before it was boiled ; and, after that, by adding as much 
water as was evaporated, one could restore it to the same quantity 
and give it the same goodness as it formerly had.** — Ibid.iZo^). 

KEEPING COOL AND SETTLING THE* WINE. 

Below the temperature of about 45 ** fermentation is impossi- 
ble ; and fermentation commences in the gluten, which is a trifle 
heavier than the rest of the wine ; therefore, if the wine is kept 
below that temperature for a few months, or even weeks, the 
gluten will settle to the bottom of the cask as lees ; which, in this 
case, not having been perverted by leaven, have a good corres- 
pondence. Then the wine may be carefully removed from the 
lees, and it will not ferment ; but it will be seen that the wine 
has lost an important part of its subst^ice (the gluten), and 

- 4 ' - - - -- 



74 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

therefore it is hot so fully the fruit of the vine as it was when- 
first pressed from the grape, or as boiled wine is which has 
simply lost a portion of its water, which can be readily restored, 
when the wine is wanted for use ; but this method of preserving 
wine was well known and frequently practiced by the ancieiits. 

"Cato, the earliest of the so-called 'rustic* or agricultural 
writers, about b. c. 200, describes specially the mode of preparing 
must, or unfermented wine, thus : * If you wish to have must all 
the year, put the grape juice in a flask [amphora], seal over the 
cork with pitch, and lower it into the cistern [piscina]. After 
thirty days, take it out ; it will be must all the year* (* De Re 
Rustica,' c. 120). It is worthy of note that the word mustum 
first appears in Latin literature in the age of Cato, about b. c. 
200 ; after which it is often met till Pliny's day, three centuries 
later. 

" Columella, the rural writer, more fully than Cato at an early 
age, describes (xii. 29) the mode of preparing unintoxicating 
wine. He says : * That must may remain always sweet, as if it 
were firesh, thus do : before the grape-skins have been put -under 
the press, put must, the freshest possible from the wine-vat, into 
a new flask, and seal and pitch it over carefully, so that no water 
can get in. Then sink the flask in cold, sweet water, so that no 
part of it shall be uncovered. Then, again, after the fortieth day 
take it out ; and thus prepared, it will remain sweet throughout 
the year.* " — Divine Law as to Wines, 

"Smith, in his ''Greek and Roman Antiquities,' says: 'The 
sweet, unfermented juice of the grape was termed gleukos by the 
Greeks and mustum by the Romans — the latter word being 
properly an adjective signifying new or fresh.* * A portion of the 
must was used at once, being diaink fresh.* * When it was desired 
to preserve a quantity in the sweet state, an amphora was taken 
and coated with pitch within and without ; it was filled with 
mustunp lixivium, and corked so as to be perfecdy air-tight. It 
was then immersed in a tank of cold fresh water, or buried in wet 
sand, and allowed to remain for six weeks or two months. The 
contents, after this process, was found to remain unchanged for a 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 7S 

year, and hence the name, aeigleukos — that is, ^semper mustum^ 
always sweet.' " 

"Chas. Anthon, LL.D., in his ' Dictionary of Greek and Roman 
Antiquities,' gives the same receipt and definitions, and fully sus- 
tains the position that these preparations of the unfermented 
grape juice were by the ancients known as wine." — Bible Wines, 

The modem application of this method of keeping wine unfer- 
mented and unintoxicating was thus detailed by Philip Miller, 
F.R.S., in 1768 : "The way to keep wine long in the must is to 
tun it up immediately from the press, and, before it begins to 
work, to let down the vessels, closely and firmly stopped, into a 
well or deep river, there to remain for six or eight weeks, during 
which time the Uquor will be so confirmed in its state of crudity 
as to retain the same, together with its sweetness, for many 
months after, without any sensible fermentation." — The Garden- 
ers' Diet (8th ed.) Art. Wine. 

That the sweet, unfermented juice of graphs, either fresh or 
preserved by the various processes we are considering, was called 
wine by the ancients is beyond question. 

"Aristotle says of sweet wine that *it is a wine in natne^ but 
not in fact — it does not intoxicate.' It had the name^ therefore, 
even in his day. Josephus, the Jewish historian, paraphrasing 
the dream of Pharaoh's butler, who dreamed that he took clusters 
of grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and gave the 
cup to Pharaoh, repeatedly calls this grape juice wine. Bishop 
Lowth, 1778, in his 'Commentary' (Isaiah v. 2), says: 'The 
firesh juice pressed firom the grape * was by Herodotus styled 
oinos ampelinos, that is, wine of the vine." — Wine of the Word^ 
by Rev, Dr. Herrick Johnson. 

FILTERING WINE TO PREVENT FERMENTATION. 

The ancients were in the habit of repeatedly filtering their 
wines to prevent fermentation. As we have already stated, fer- 
mentation commences in the gluten, which is a thick, jelly-like 
substance, or the bread portion of the wine, which does not so 
readily pass through fine substances like felt, wool, or linen bags. 



76 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

or whatever material was used by the ancients in making their 
filters, as the more fluid portions of the wine ; consequently, by 
repeatedly filtering, and thus separating the gluten, they prevented 
fermentation in the wine which passed the filter ; but, it will be 
seen that, as in the case of keeping cool and settling the gluten, 
they lost a valuable and an essential part of the wine, or the part 
which nourishes the body of man as good does his spirit. Still 
this process is vastly superior to the process of fermentation, even 
aside from the latter's contaminating the wine by leaving in it a 
poison which will cause drunkenness, insanity and disease ; for 
fermentation not only destroys the gluten quite as effectually as 
the filter, but it also destroys a large portion of the sugar; and 
it perverts, precipitates, or changes the vegetable salts which 
the Lord has so carefully organized in thp grape for the good of 
man. Fermented wine contains very little of the finit of the 
vine or of the substances organized therein unperverted. 

"Plutarch, in his 'Symposiacs,' refers to the way of preventing 
the fermentation of wine by filtering, as explained by Dr. Ure. 
Plutarch says : * Wine is rendered old, ox feeble in strength, when 
it is frequently filtered ; this percolation makes it more pleasant 
to the palate ; the strength of the wine is thus taken away without 
any injury to its pleasing flavor. The strength (or spirit^ being 
thus withdrawn (or excluded^, the wine neither inflames the 
head nor infests the mind and the passions, but is much more 
pleasant to drink. Doubtless, defecation takes away the {spirit, 
or) potency that torments the head of the drinker; and, this 
being removed, the wine is reduced to a state both mild, salubri- 
ous and wholesome,^ Here is a writer on conviviality— one who 
associated with drinkers — ^who asserts that these unintoxicating 
wines were most esteemed. 

"The 'Delphin Notes to Horace, lib. i, ode 2, make reference 
to the same mode of preventing fermentation. 'Be careful to 
prepare for yourself wine percolated and defecated by the filter, 
and thus rendered sweet, and more in accordance with nature, 
and a female taste, ^ Females, as we have seen, were not allowed 
toidrink intoxicating wine. It was this kind of wine which Theo- 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 77 

phrastes so appropriately called ^ moral wine.* The mischief 
wrought by fermented wine ought, long since, to have earned for 
it the title of * immoral wine.' 

"Cato, and other ancient writers, give similar testimony. The 
fact that these receipts were furnished to the public is very good 
evidence, of itself, that such wine was in use. 

"The numerous authorities already cited to show that unfer- 
mented grape juice is wine, also prove that unfermented wine 
existed. 

"Here, then, in spite of assertions to the contrary, is the thing 
which we call unfermented wine. No quibble about the use of 
terms can avail, for here is the thingy by whatever name it is 
called. The name of it may have been different in different 
ages ; for, as we have seen, Pliny says, that intoxicating wine, 
vinum, was once called- temetum; and in the East now, krasion 
has displaced the classical oinos^ — Communion Wine, by Rev. 
William M. Thayer. 

PRESERVATION OF UNFERMENTED WINE BY THE USE OF SWEET OIL. 

If the fresh juice of the grape, that which results from only a 
moderate amount of pressure, is strained through a linen strainer 
once or more ; or imtil all fragments of the pulp are removed and 
the wine is perfectly clear, and it is then put into a clean bottle 
until it reaches the neck of the bottle, and a stratum of fresh 
sweet oil is poured upon its siuface until it reaches the depth of 
an inch or two, and then the bottle is corked, the wine will not 
ferment, but will keep fresh, as has been found by recent experi- 
ments ; thus confirming the efficacy of one of the methods of the 
ancients, as represented by the following engravings. 

"The three cuts," says the Rev. Dr. Samson, "present three 
distinct processes in the most ancient modes of preparing unfer- 
Hiented wines, alluded to on pages 46, 54-57, and described on 
pages 310-313 (of his work on the * Divine Law as to Wines' ). 
They are copied from sculptures in relief, richly painted, found 
on the walls of tombs at Beni Hassan, in Upper Egypt. They 
are found in the volumes of Sir Gardner Wilkinson, and were 



78 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

carefully studied by the writer in February, 1848. The tombs 
have, at their entrance, the cartouche of Osirtasen I., the Pharaoh 
of Joseph's day. 

"Fig. I presents the twist-press, the "torcular*' of the 
Romans, and specially illustrates the straining of the saccharine 
from albuminous ingredients in grape juice ; the cloth of the sack 
preventing the pulpy albumen from passing out with the watery, 
sugary fluid. Fig. 2, the tread-press, exhibits the immediate 
drawing off and storing of the strained juice, which issues from 
the upper spout of the vat in which the strainer is not seen, pours 
into the upper tub, and is thence dipped fresh into jars and 
stored in the wine-vault. Fig. 3 shows the mode of preserving 
the stored grape juice ; the man at the left with a large tureen, 
pouring the juice through a cylindrical spout into the jars, while 
the youth with an oil-scoop, like those now found in ancient 
tombs in Egypt, Cyprus, and Greece, pours a coating of olive oil 
on the top of the grape juice in the jars. To this custom of 
preserving must and other fruit products by oil, Pliny and Colu- 
mella allude: Columella saying (xii. 19) that * before the must 
is poured into the jars (vasa)/ they should be * saturated with 
good oil/ " 

FUMIGATION. 

Dr. Ure states that fermentation may be stopped by the ap- 
plication or admixture of substances containing sulphur; that 
the operation consists partly in absorbing oxygen, whereby the 
elimination of the yeasty particles is prevented. Adams in his 
"Roman Antiquities '* on the authority of Pliny and others, says 
"that the Romans fumigated their wines with the fumes of sul- 
phur; that they also mixed with the mustum, newly pressed 
juice, yolks of eggs, and other articles containing sulphur.*' 

Count Dandalo, " On the Art of Preserving the Wines of Italy,'' 
first published at Milan, 181 2, says : "The last process in wine- 
making is sulphurization : its object is to secure the most long- 
continued preservation of all wines, even of the very commonest 
sort."— iV;?//; 



WINES OF THE ANaENTS. 
Fig. I. 



79 




Fig. 2. 




Fig. 3. 



cocon 




So WINES OF THE ANaENTS. 

So it will be seen that sulphurization is used to stop fermenta- 
tion in our age. 

Dr. Adam Clarke says : " The Hebrew, Greek, and Latin words 
wliich are rendered * wine,' mean simply the expressed juice of 
the grape." Hence, we find that different words in the Bible 
are translated "wine," which proves that wine is a generic term, 
and covers the stores of all sorts ^a//«<f spoken of in Nehemiah, 
V. 1 3. At the present day, also, the term is used in precisely f 
this manner. It may mean grape, currant, raspberry, whortle- 
berry, elderberry, madeira, port, cherry, and a hundred other 
wines. It may refer to new, old, sweet, sour, weak, or strong 
wines. It may refer to enforced or unenforced, fermented or 
unfermented wine. Pliny says that, in his day (lib. 14, cap. 22), 
the term covered " one hundred and eighty-five different kinds 
of wine.'* 

. There were various other methods for preserving wine from 
fermentation employed among the ancients, such as mixing it 
with sea water, spices, etc., but it is unnecessary to refer to them 
further, as we have already noticed those most frequently used, 
ari(i those least objectionable. 

MODERN UNFERMENTED WINE. 

Norman Kerr, M. D., of London, in an excellent work just 
published, in reply to Rev. A. M. Wilson, says : " I have, time 
and again, examined grape juice hours after, by the interference 
of man, it has been expressed, and found not a trace of alcohol ; 
and I have, by repeated experiment, proved that nothing can be 
easier than the production and preservation of unfermented wine. 
The preparation of this nutritious and cheering non-alcoholic 
drink is as speedy, simple, and easy as the manufacture of alco- 
holic liquor is tedious, complex and difficult. 

" Grape juice boiled down to a half, a third, or a fourth of its 
bulk, does not ferment for a very long period, and then only 
slightly and on the surface. Three months ago I prepared speci- 
mens of these unfermented wines of the ancients, defrutunty 
one-Jialf evaporated ( Plin. N . H. xi v. 9 ) , and sapa, sirosum, or hep- 



MODERN UNFERMENTED WINR. 8l 

sema, two-thirds evaporated (Plin. ibid. ; Ramsay in Smith, Art. 
Vin.), and I have just finished using them. The blood of the 
grape was poured warm into ordinary glass bottles, which were 
sealed as wine bottles usually are, and it continued unfermented 
and free from alcohol to the last. And I had the pleasure, not. 
long since, of enjoying a refreshing draught from a bottle of 
Eastern wine more than four years old, which I found, on chemi- 
cal examination, absolutely non-alcoholic." 

Rev. Mr. Wilson declared that, " It must have been simply 
impossible for the ancients to have preserved their juice liquid 
and unfermented, unless they had boiled it in air-tight flasks, 
or had expressed it in an atmosphere of hydrogen and carbonic 
acid, or had subjected it to a steaming process, and preserved 
it in vacuo. But they trode their grapes in an open wine-press, 
and pressed out the juice in an open vat, in the open air, so that 
fermentation was inevitable.'* 

In answer to this statement. Dr. Kerr, after referring to the 
various processes by which wine was preserved free from fermen- 
tation by the ancients, and is so preserved at this day, says: 
"It may be very wrong of me to drink the impossible, but 
this morning, and every morning lor the last three weeks, 
I have drank of a most pleasing and refreshing liquor, cheer- 
ing to the heart and nourishing to the body, as thin as any 
full-bodied Tokay, four years and a-half old — ^the pure juice of 
the grape boiled. It was imported in casks from the East, and, 
after undergoing the great heat of a prolonged voyage on the 
Mediterranean, was poured into Winchester quarts, the corks 
being sealed as those of whisky jars generally are. A month ago 
the liquor, after being carefully examined and found absolutely 
free from alcohol, was decanted, and though it has been kept in 
common wine bottles, it has shown no appearance of ferment- 
ing." 

After stating the fact that grape juice does not begin to fer- 
ment immediately on exposure to the air ; and that a period vary- 
ing from some hours to several days elapses before the process 
of fermentation and the formation of alcohol begin ; notwithstand- 



82 MODERN UNFERMENTED WINE. 

ing Rev. Mr. Wilson's statement to the contrary, Dr. Kerr con- 
cludes as follows : " Therefore, it is as clear as the light of the 
sun at noon, that the existence of unfermented and unintoxicat- 
ing wine amongst both ancients and modems, is not a myth, but 
a fact.'* 

Of the modem unfermented wine he says : " This nineteenth 
century non-alcoholic wine (a bottle of which, taken at random 
out of my wine-cellar, where it has been for four years, was 
analyzed by Mr. Clifford and myself on March 23, 1878, and 
found absolutely free from alcohol) I prescribe largely in the 
treatment of such diseases as fever, consumption, and that most 
depressing malady, dyspepsia, from one of the Protean forms of 
which Timothy may have suffered when he received the presorip- 
tion of probably a like wine from the Apostle Paul.'' , 



GRAPE JELLY. 



Grape jelly, if properly prepared, is one of the most palatable, nourishing 
and useful of our articles for food. As a sauce or preserve to eat with 
bread and butter, or on meat, or fish, there is in the estimation of the writer — 
judging from his own taste — nothing which compares with it. It does not 
dissolve readily in cold water; but in hot water, by a little stirring, it will 
dissolve sufficiently to make a palatable and nourishing drink. 

To make grape jelly, select good, clean, ripe grapes, mash and boil them 
in their own juice until they are well cooked, then strain them either 
through a fine cullender or sieve, or a coarse linen cloth will do. Press 
or rub all of the substance of the grape out which you can, leaving as little 
as practicable beside the skins and seed behind; then boil the juice for a 
short time. If your grapes are " meaty," you will not need to boil long, 
but if there is not much substance to them you will need to boil them 
longer. Add three-fourths of a pound of sugar for every pint of juice, if 
the grapes are grown in a northern latitude; do not boil long after adding 
the sugar— only long enough to thoroughly dissolve the sugar, for long 
boiling with sugar impairs the flavor; pour it into glasses or jars; or can it 
as you do fruit. It will keep. You need not fear any supposed impurities in 
this fruit of the vine, which seem to trouble our wine-drinking friends so 
much, for the Lord has carefully organized this substance in the grape for 
your use, and He has made no mistake. It is the drinkers of fermented 
wine who have made so sad an error. 



CHAPTER VI. 

DRUNKENNESS IN WINE GROWING AND BEER CONSUMING COUNTRIES. 

If we look back upon the history of the world, from the 
days of Noah down to the present time, we find that drunkenness 
has been one of the most fearful and destructive of the evils 
which have afflicted our race. Before the sixth century alcohol, 
brandy, whisky, and all distilled liquors, were unknown in Bible 
lands; consequently all the drunkenness described by ancient 
authors, and so severely denounced in the Bible, was from the 
drinking of fermented liquids, and generally of wine. No further 
reply than this would seem to be necessary to show the utter 
absurdity of recommending the use of wine instead of distilled 
liquors, with the expectation of materially modifying the evils of 
drunkenness. The truth is, that with the exception of the very 
lowest class of society, the present drinking habits are generally 
formed by the use of wine and beer ; and if we can only stop the 
use of these fluids we shall have less drunkenness ; for distilled 
liquors are so repugnant to the unperverted taste, that there will 
be less danger of drunkenness than now. 

We take from the Rev. Dr. Samson's work, " The Divine Law 
as to Wines," the following statements : *' It has been so fre- 
quently claimed that if, instead of preaching total abstinence 
fi*om all intoxicating drinks, we would recommend the use of 
wine and beer instead of distilled liquors, we should do more 
good than by advocating total abstinence. Here the work of 
Honorable Robert C. Pitman, LL.D., Associate Justice of the 
Superior Court of Massachusetts, just issued, and entitled * The 
Problem of Law as to the Liquor Traffic,' comes in with its 
special testimony. While most of the volume is devoted to the 
evils of distilled intoxicants, the 19th chapter, entitled the 
^Milder Alcoholics,' brings out an array of testimony by careful 



S4 DRUNKENNESS IN WINE GROWING 

observers quite unlike that of casual tourists in Europe. Of these 
gathered testimonies, the following are specimens : In France, 
Montalembert said, in the National Assembly, as early as 1850, 
* Where there is a wine-shop., there are the elements of disease, 
and the frightful source of all that is at enmity with the interests 
6f the workman.' In 1872, the French Government appointed 
a committee to report on the national vice of wine-drinking. In 
the report of their Secretary, they say, after citing the fearful 
demoralization produced by wine before, during, and after the 
war with Prussia : * There is one point on which the French 
Assembly thought and felt alike. * * * To restore France to her 
right position, their moral and physical powers must be given 
back to her people. * * * To combat a propensity, which has 
long been regarded as venial, because it seemed to debase and 
corrupt only the individual, but the prodigious extension of which 
has resulted in a menace to society at large, and in the .tempo- 
rary humiliation of the country, seemed incumbent on the meii 
to whom that country has entrusted the task of investigating, and 
remedying its evils.* In Switzerland, Dr. Guilkume, of the Na- 
tional Society for Penitentiary Reform, states, in 1872, that 'the 
liberty of the wine-traffic, and intoxication therefrom, is the 
source of fifty per cent, of the crimes committed.' 

" In Italy, Cardinal Acton, late Supreme Judge at Rome, has 
stated that nearly all the crimes at Rome * originate in the use of 
wine.' Recorder Hill, appointed to gather facts abroad, to 
influence British legislation, reported in 1858, 'Each of the gover- 
nors of state prisons in Baden and Bavaria, assured me that it 
was wine in the one country, and beer in the other, which filled 
their jails.' American legislation as to wines and beers is but 
following modem as well as ancient experience ; for all the 
dangers attending the use of distilled liquors are linked to the use 
of fermented wines." 

"There is an impression," says the Rev. Dr. Fowler, "that 
France is a temperate nation. Men ride through the country in 
the better class of cars and see little of it, because the matchless 
police remove the nuisance ; but let them live there, and live 



AND BEER CONSUMING COUNTRIES. 85 

with the people, and they will change their minds. Listen to the 
witnesses : Our author, J. Fennimore Cooper, says : ' I came to 
Europe under the impression that there was more drunkenness 
among us (Americans) than in any other country. A residence 
of six months in Paris changed my views entirely. I have taken 
unbelievers about Paris, and always convinced them in one walk. 
I have been more struck by drunkenness in the streets of Paris 
than in those of London. Horace Greeley wrote from Paris : 
*That wine will intoxicate, does intoxicate ; that there are con- 
firmed drunkards in Paris and throughout France is notorious 
and undeniable.' M. LeClere says : 'Laborers leave their work, 
derange their means, drink irregularly, and transform into drunken 
debauch the time which should have been spent in profitable 
labor.' A French magazine says : ' Drunkenness is the beginning 
and end of life in the great French industrial centres. At Lille 
twenty-five per cent, of the men, and twelve per cent, of the 
women, are confirmed drunkards.' 

"The Count de Montalembert, member of the Academy of 
National Sciences, said in the National Assembly of France: 
* Where there is a wine-shop, there are the elements of disease, 
and the frightfiil source of all that is at enmity with the interests 
of the workman.' M. Jules Simon: * Women rival the men in 
drunkenness. At Lille, at Rouen> there are some so saturated 
with it that their infants refuse to take the breast of a sober 
woman.' Hon. James M. Usher, Chief Commissioner of Massa- 
chusetts to the World's Exposition in Paris, in 1867, says : 'The 
drinking habit runs through every phase of society. I have seen 
more people drunk here than I ever saw in Boston for the same 
length of time. They are the same class of people too.' Hon. 
Caleb Foote, of Salem, Mass., writing from Paris, after large 
investigations, denies, in toto, the • theory that the people 
of the wine-producing countries are sober. Dr. E. N. Kirk, 
pf Boston, says : * I never saw such systematic drunkenness as I 
saw in France during a residence of sixteen months. The 
French go about it as a business. I never saw so many women 



86 DRUNKENNESS IN WINE GROWING 

drunk.' Surely there is no lack of testimony. Look at the other 
wine-growing countries. 

" Rev. E. S. Lacy, of San Francisco, six months in Switzerland 
in a wine-growing section, says : * Here more intoxication was ob- 
vious than in any other place it was ever my lot to live in.* Before 
the Legislative License Committee of Massachusetts, Dr. Warren, 
of the Boston Biblical School, seven years a resident in Germany, 
says : * Drunkenness is very common : every evening drunken 
people stagger by my house.' Rev. J. G. Cochran^ missinnary to 
Persia, says of a wiae^fjfodncmg section : *The whole village of 
male adults will be habitually intoxicated for a month or six 
weeks.* Rev. Mr. Larabee, another missionary to Persia, con- 
firms the statement. Even priests coolly excuse their own 
irregularities by the plea of drunkenness. 

"Thirty-five or forty years ago England attempted to suppress 
drunkenness by licensing ale and beer, yet she consumes more 
alcohol per head now than then. The consumption of alcohol 
has increased in the last fifty years one hundred and seventy-five 
per cent. 

" Turn to America. How fares it in California ? The experi- 
ment fails. A State Convention of the friends of Temperance, 
in October, 1866, resolved against wine-growing. Conventions 
of Congregational ministers and lay delegates, the same month, 
reached the same result. They are fully convinced that the 
hope of temperance, based on wine, is delusive. This case has 
been tried till the State exceeds, perhaps, all others in corruption. 
Commissioner Wells says : * California, with her cheap wines for 
temperance," in the year ending June 30, 1867, sold fourteen 
times per head as much alcoholic stuff as Maine did, and more 
than any other State.' 

" Dr. Holland, who, it will be remembered, some time ago 
wrote»a book recommending wine as a substitute for alcohol— 
which book is yet quoted as an authority by those who advocate 
this theory — has, since his late travels in the wine-growing countries 
of Europe, where he had an opportunity to extend his observa- 
tions, declared that his former views were wrong ; and that wine- 



AND BEER CONSUMING COUNTRIES. 87 

drinking is a great producer of drunkenness ; and that if we wish 
America to become a nation of drunkards, we should adopt wine 
as our beverage. 

" These are the facts concerning the wine-growing countries. 
The idea of substituting wine for alcohol in the interest of 
Temperance is absurd. I have protracted this part of the argur 
ment, because the enemies of this law are seeking to have wine 
and beer excepted from the law. But do it, and you kill the 
law ; and this is what they seek. Beware ! If you make, wine 
and beer abound, drunkenness will much more abound. 

" Against this evil plan we can only thunder the facts that the 
coimtries that manufacture and drink most wine are those that 
use most distilled liquors, and have the largest per cent, of beastly 
wife-beating and child-beating drunkenness. Husbands may tell 
their ragged and pleading wives, that they can stop ; they guess 
they know who drives. They can stop if they will ; but the fact 
remains. The hundred thousand drunkards that annually die 
were all moderate drinkers before they settled down into ' old 
tubs.' They all tippled a little before they guzzled. There is no 
disguising the fact. Once drinking, there is no way out but to 
face about and let it alone, or go through into hell.*' 



J^ the printer does not like to commence a chapter, except at 
the top of a page, and the writer does not like to send out blank 
pages — or parts of such — the reader may expect to find in this 
work, here and there, at the end of the chapters, subjects considered 
which do not legitimately come within the limits of the subjects 
discussed in the preceding chapter. The great aim of the writer 
in the preparation and sending forth of this volume, is to expose 
falses, and to impart useful information, and thus benefit his 
fellow-man. 



CHAPTER VII. 

THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER" AND INTOXICATING WINES. ' 

In the Messenger of February 9th, 1881, appear the following 
editorial comments, in answer to a correspondent : 

" W. J. P., in our correspondence department, suggests that because 
• falses from evil ' are compared to * such wine and strong drinks as induce 
drunkenness/ the good wine of the Bible must be unfermented. On thcj 
contrary, we think the * wine that produces drunkenness ' is that which is 
taken in greater quantities than in its proper proportion to food. Wine 
taken with the food, and in proper proportion to it, does not produce 
drunkenness. Wine alone, or out of proportion to good food, may produce 
drunkenness, and hence represent 'falses from evil;* that is, truths in the 
character without their corresponding good are changed into * falses from 
evil.'" 

Well, let us carry the editor's interpretation of Swedenborg's: 
comparison of falses from evil to intoxicating wine, over to his 
comparison of falses not from evil to waters not pure, for if true 
in the one case it must be true in the other also. 

The suggestion is made, that because falses not from evil are com- ; 
pared to waters not pure, therefore the gopd water of the Bible 
must be pure water. On the contrary, exclaims the reasoning of 
the editor oixki^ Messenger, ^^ think the "water not pure" which 
may cause disease but not drunkenness, is water which is taken 
in greater quantities than in its proper proportion to food. 
Impure water taken with food, and in proper proportion to it, does 
not produce diseases peculiar to the quality of impure water. In 
other words, there is no wine or water which in itself is impure ; 
it is only rendered impure, because it is not taken in due propor- 
tion with food; even though one may be impure from the 
presence of the poisonous product of leaven (alcohol) — which, 
as we well know is a deadly poison, causing insanity, Aimken- 
ness, delirium tremens, and sudden death — or the other with 
arsenic, the action of which is not as terrible in its effects, espe- 



THE «« MESSENGER" AND THE WINE QUESTION. 8g^ 

cially when taken with and in due proportion to food, but never- 
theless is to be dreaded by every sensible man. With an unwar- 
rantable assumption to begin with, and a few grains of apparent 
(not real) truth, scattered through it, it certainly would be difficult 
to find, in the English language, in so few lines, such strange and 
pernicious verbiage ; and this seductive morsel, is sent out by the 
general body of the New Church to homes where dwell our guile-, 
less and inexperienced youth. Alas ! Alas ! for our Church. 

It is certainly true that alcohol, fermented wine, arsenic, or 
any other poison, in a given quantity, when mixed or taken with 
food, will not be as readily absorbed and taken into the circula- 
tion, or act as speedily on the mucous membrane of the stomach ; 
and, consequently, will not produce such speedy or violent poi- 
sonous effects as when taken alone, or into an empty stomach. 
Eut who is to judge when either arsenic or intoxicating wine is 
taken in due proportion to food, as every man is governed 
by his taste or a morbid craving? The Messenger must acknowl- 
edge that poisons are seductive, because they cause an unnatural 
action, foUowed by an opposite state ; consequently an unnatural 
demand, and an unnatural appetite, which absolutely require an 
increase of the quantity to satisfy the demand and appetite. 
This is not true of any kind of natural food or drink ; and the 
history of the past shows that no poison is more seductive than 
fermented wine. Commencing with a single glass with food, 
presently more is required ; until, perhaps, at last a whole bottle 
does not give a due proportion to food, according to the actual 
feelings and desires of the drinker. From drinking this seductive 
fluid with food, it is but an easy step, which Words for the New , 
Church,. it will be seen has already taken, to advocate the drink- 
ing of the social glass of wine — and even whisky — ^when fiiends 
meet ; and then the life which leads to drunkenness is well be- 
gun ; and the road is clear for the young and old of the New 
Church to march on in the line of drunkards hand in hand to 
wretchedness and crime ; and, if not prematurely cut off, not un- 
frequently to a drunkard's grave. We will ask the Messenger, in 
all seriousness, if too many of the members of our Church are 



$0 - THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER" 

not, at this very moment, travelling that road ; and in too imminent 
danger, to make such justification and encouragement of this ter- 
rible evil of wine-drinking desirable in its columns ; to say noth- 
ing of the danger of such teaching to the young. 

But, as has been shown above, it is not true that fermented 
wine can be taken in any perceptible quantity with food, or in a 
quantity which the Messenger would evidently justify, with either 
impunity or safety. We have already called attention to the 
great danger of developing an uncontrollable appetite for intoxi- 
cating drinks, by thus using wine ; and now we will let that able 
physiologist, Dr. Wm. B. Carpenter, speak as to the effects of such 
moderate drinking of intoxicating beverages as the Messenger 
encourages : " It cannot then be imagined that even a small 
habitual excess in diet, induced by the stimulating action of fer- 
mented liquors, can be without its remote consequences upon 
the general system ; even though it may be for a time suificientiy 
compensated by increased activity of the excreting organs. And 
the disorders of the liver and kidneys, which are so frequent 
among those who have been accustomed to this mode of living 
for many years, without (as they believe) any injurious conse- 
quences, are as surely to be set down to it, as. are those conges- 
tive and inflammatory diseases of the abdominal viscera, which 
so much more speedily follow habitual excesses in warm cli- 
mates.*' 

But why this special effort of the editor of the Messenger to 
justify and encourage the use of intoxicating wine ? It is well 
known to the readers of the Messenger that, over a year ago, an 
article appeared in its columns, justifying the use of intoxicating 
drinks ; and that the present writer wrote a somewhat . lengthy 
essay, in which he endeavored to show, that according to the 
philosophy of the New Church, the science of correspondences, 
the express teachings of Swedenborg, and the well-recognized 
laws of physiology, alcohol wherever found has an infernal origin ; 
that it is a poison, and one of the most deadly and insidious ; and 
that in all its effects on body and mind, its action is strictly analo- 
gous to the action of falses from evil on the soul of man. He 



. AND THE WINE QUESTION. 91 

also produced unquestionable evidence that there were two kinds 
of wine in use among the ancients, and named in the Bible — one 
intoxicating and the other not. This essay was violently assailed 
by several writers, and all of the assaults were based upon 
assumptions which had no foundation in truth ; such as that the 
wines spoken of favorably in the Bible were always fermented 
wines, and that fermented wines must be gpod, because Sweden- 
borg compares fermentation, and the changes which take place 
during the fermentation of wine, and the purification of alcohol, 
to spiritual combats and purification. 

While printing some other articles upon the same side of the 
question on which we stand, the editor accumulated several arti- 
cles in reply to our essay, full of such assumptions ; and two or 
three short articles opposed to the use of intoxicating wine ; and 
printed them all in one number of the Messenger^ and then declared 
the discussion in the columns of the Messenger closed ; thus giving 
the writer of this work no opportunity to reply. As the discus- 
sion was opened by an advocate of the use of intoxicating drinks, 
and the writer, of course, not knowing what objections would be 
taken to his article, could not answer them before he knew; them, 
the friends of temperance did not feel that they wei:e fairly treated. 
But tlie writer endeavored to do the best he could, under the 
circumstances, to bring the truth before the minds of New 
Churchmen, therefore he printed what he had^ tp say in the form 
of a tract, and sent it to all New Churchmen whose names he 
could obtain. So much for the past course of the Messenger. . 

Well, it so happened, recently, that a respected correspondent 
of the Messenger sent the editor a short extract fi-om Sweden- 
borg, accompanied by three lines, intimating that it was possible, 
after all, that the advocates of intoxicating wines might be mis- 
taken in some of their conclusions and views. The following 
contains the correspondence and extract, 

FALSES FROM EVILS — INTOXICATING WINES AND STRONG DRINKS. 

Editor Messenger, — Perhaps the following passage, from 
No. 1035 of the " Apocalypse Explained," favors the idea that 



9«\.,.- .,. THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER'* 

the good wine of the Bible is unfermented, and the bad wine is 
fermented. w. j. p. 

" As to what further respects the insanity, which is signified 
by inebriation and by drunkenness in the Word, it is not from 
falses, but from truths falsified ; the reason is, because truths from 
heaven act into the understanding, and at the same time the 
false from hell, whence arises dissension in the mind and an in- 
sanity like that of a drunkard in the world ; but this insanity only 
takes place with those who are in evil, and have confirmed the 
falses of evil by the Word, for all things of the Word are truths, 
and communicate with heaven, and falses of evil are from hell ; 
but from the falses which are not from evil spiritual inebriation 
does not take place, for those falses do not pervert and destroy 
spiritual truths, which He inwardly concealed in the truths of the 
literal sense, for they do not thence hatch evil, as do the falses 
which are derived from evil. Falses not from evil may be com- 
pared to waters not pure, which being drunk do not induce 
drunkenness, but falses from evil may be compared to such wine 
and strong drinks as induce drunkenness ; wherefore also that in- 
sanity, in the W^ord, is said to be affected by wine, which is called 
the wine of whoredom, and the wine of Babel in Jeremiah 
li. 7 : ' A cup of gold is Babel in the hand of Jehovah, inebri- 
ating the universal earth, the nations have drank of her wine, 
therefore the nations are insane.* " 

Now, we think almost any intelligent, liberal-minded man, who 
believes in fair play in the discussion of such an important ques- 
tion as the one under consideration, will say that, after having 
closed the discussion against the advocates of total abstinence at 
the very time when, as we have seen, in honor and fairness he 
should not have done so, if he felt under obligation, from any 
consideration whatever, to insert a simple extract from Sweden- 
borg's works, with simply the three lines from his correspondent, 
he might have let it stand without note or comment, and allowed 
his readers to judge as to what is taught therein for themselves. 
But no, sir, this would never do I For Swedenborg distinctly. 



f UNiVERSlTY 1 

AND THE WINE QUESTRKDN^ of ..^^93 

represents that there are two kinds of wme; and intoxicating 
wine he compares to falses, and not simply to fdses, but to the 
worst kind of falses — falses from evil — and he illustrates it so 
clearly that no one would be likely to mistake what he means. 
Seeing clearly, it would seem, the emergency, the editor of the 
Messenger takes up his pen, and rushes to the front page of his 
paper, and gives us the paragraph which is presented to the 
reader at the head of this article. Desperate situations require 
desperate measures of defence. Such falses as are used to justify 
the use of fermented wine, in a fair field where both sides are 
allowed to be heard, cannot long remain covered, for they will 
not stand a thorough investigation in the light of this new day. 

Although the columns of the Messenger wfoxQ closed against the 
discussion of the wine question more than a year ago ; "and the 
editor, as we have seen, could not admit a simple quotation from 
Swedenborg comparing intoxicating wine with falses from evil, sent 
him by a subscriber, without an attempt to destroy its force, 
yet he does not hesitate, without one word of comment, to ad- 
mit a sermon from a New Church minister containing the fol- 
lowing in the interest of intoxicating wine : " Before fermentation 
the grape juice in the wine fat is turbid, and appears full of im- 
purities. But by fermentation the impurities are removed, the 
lighter ones are thrown off from the surface, and the others sink 
to the bottom, leaving the wine clear and pure for use. The ne- 
cessity for this arises from the fact that in the grape juice are 
many crude particles of foreign substances that cannot be strained 
out, separated, or removed in any other way than by fermenta- 
tion." ' 

We ask the reader if the latter part of the above statement is 
correct? There may be shreds of the cellular structure of the 
grape and cells of gluten, if heavy pressmre has been used, which 
render the juice opaque or turbid ; the ancients we know separated 
them by boiling and skimming. Virgil, bom 70 years B.C., says : 

** Or of sweet must boils down the luscious juice, 
And skims with leaves the trembling cauldron's flood." 



94 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER »• 

There is no difficulty in separating all substances which cause 
the fresh grape juice to be turbid, by simply straining or filtering, 
as we all know. 

If the recently expressed juice of grapes is turbid, before 
fermentation has commenced, it is not because it contains sub- 
stances which are impure, as represented in the extract from the 
sermon in the Messenger; but the turbidness is caused by frag- 
ments of the pulp composed largely of gluten ; and, if the wine 
is allowed to stand in a cool place below 45^, they will settle to 
the bottom, leaving the wine clear. But if fermentation com- 
mences, this heaviest part of the liquid — ^not the lightest as 
represented by our clerical brother above— will rise to the 
surface, for precisely the same reason that the body of a man 
drowned generally rises to the siuface of the water within a few 
days, namely, because it is distended with gas which results from 
its own decomposition. In other words, the leaven or ferment 
has destroyed this gluten, and casts it out by the aid of the 
poisonous gas which it has developed. If, instead of being cast 
out by leaven, it is allowed to setde to the bottom as lees, such 
lees have a good correspondence as we shall see hereafter, for 
this gluten is good, useful, and pure ; and it is never impure 
before ferment assails and destroys it, or before decomposition 
commences. 

Can either the reverend gentleman, or the editor of the Mes- 
senger, tell us what the impurities and foreign substances are, 
which can only be separated by fermentation in the pure juice of 
the grape, called must or new wine, as it flows from the press, 
which Swedenborg tells us has the same signification as wine ? 
Is the gluten, which nourishes the body of man as good does his 
soul, one of them? This is to a great extent destroyed and cast 
out by fermentation. Is the sugar, which is so delightful and 
which corresponds to spiritual delights, one of them ? This is 
destroyed and perverted into alcohol, a most deadly poison. Is 
it the phosphorus which is so necessary for the brain ? This 
either disappears or is polluted during fermentation. Do the vege- 
table acids and alkaline salts, so carefully organized by the Lord 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 95 

in the grape to nourish man's tendons and bones, belong to the 
impurities and foreign substances which can only be removed by 
fermentation ? These substances are perverted, changed, or cast 
down as lees by fermentation ; and such lees have not a good 
correspondence, as we shall see. That the bread or nourishing 
portion of the wine is thus destroyed, to a great extent, by fer- 
mentation chemistry' shows conclusively ; and we can demonstrate 
the same fact to our senses by a very easy experiment. Take 
some new wine or must as it flows from the press, boil it and you 
gradually drive off the water ; and by continuing your boiling, it 
becomes a thick syrup ; boil it long enough and it becomes a 
comparatively solid body ; when it cools you have lost nothing^ 
but water — the food portion remains. On the other hand, take 
fermented wine and boil it, and you will find no rich syrup, and 
little or no solid food substance remaining ; for it has been de- 
stroyed by fermentation. Could anything demonstrate more con- 
clusively than this simple experiment, that such of our clergymen 
as attempt to justify the use of fermented wine, by comparisons 
found in the Writings of Swedenborg, have totally mistaken the 
true meaning of such comparisons ? 

Again, as has been intimated elsewhere in this work, during, 
the process of spiritual regeneration good overcomes evil and 
casts it out ; and man's spirit is thereby purified, and rendered 
clear, like wine after fermentation; but in the fermentation of 
wine, as we have seen above, exactly the opposite takes place ; 
for almost all of the nourishing substances organized by the Lord 
in the grape for the use of man, which correspond to good, are 
overcome by the ferment, and the sugar is often entirely de- 
stroyed, if the ferment has had a chance to thoroughly complete 
its work, and either changed or destroyed, and precipitated as 
lees, cast out in the form of poisonous gases, or remain in, as alco- 
hol and vinegar, to pollute the wine and to render it a seductive 
and poisonous fluid, which will cause disease, drunkenness, and 
insanity, if used by man as a drink. 

Again : if the grape juice, as it flows from the press, is so full 
of impurities which can only be removed by fermentation, per- 



g6 THE ♦•NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER « 

haps the author of the above sermon can tell us how it happens 
that Swedenborg declares positively, in a general declaration, that 
"must signifies the same as wine, viz., truth derived from the 
good of charity" (A. E. 695), and that new wine is the Divine 
Truth of the New Testament, consequently of the New Church 
(A. R. 316). It is quite certain that neither party to this con- 
troversy would be willing to admit that the must and new wine, to 
which Swedenborg refers above, can be must and new wine 
undergoing the process of fermentation, which are hot, and 
muddy from heterogeneous substances which have resulted from 
the destructive action of ferment upon the juice of the grape. 
We are all, then, compelled to admit that unfermented must and 
new wine have the same signification as wine ; and, if they have the 
same signification, is it not certain that they have the same com- 
position — are, in fact, the same fluid only modified by age ? The 
ancients, we are told by ancient authors, as we have seen, did 
not regard their boiled wines as ripe enough for use until they 
were four years old ; and such wines two centuries old, we are 
informed, were not imknown. 

Is it possible that any intelligent reader of the Writings of Swe- 
denborg, who has carefully examined this whole subject in the light 
thereby afforded, and in the light of science, can for a moment 
suppose that fermented wine, in which such a large portion of all 
that corresponds to good has been destroyed, and in which even 
the water contained therein is polluted by alcohol, the product of 
fermentation and vinegar which results from the next process of 
decay, can be the wine which is and ever has been, a blessing to 
man. "Good wine is, and always will be, found at the 'feast of 
fat things, full of marrow,' which the Lord is constantly offering 
man on the mountain of his love— 'wine on the lees, well refined.' 
There is no poison in the wine which 'makes glad the heart of 
man,' none in that which the good Samaritan poured into the 
wounds of the man who fell among- thieves ; none in that which 
cheers but does not inebriate in declining age. The highest and 
most holy, earthly emblem of the truth which is divine is wine." 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 97 

The Word of the Lord, the writings of the Church, modem 
science, and the common sense of mankind, based on common 
observation of its effects when used, all tell us, as we have seen, 
that such a wine is never ^ wine which has t>een polluted by fer- 
ment. But as we have considered Swedenborg's comparisons more 
fully in our replies to writers in the New Jerusalem Magazine^ and 
Words for the New Churchy it is unnecessary to say more here. 

The Rev. Joseph Cook, in a sermon, speaking of the conse- 
quences and danger of moderate drinking, says : 

" Do you say that I am declaiming now, and leaving the ground of hard, 
stern facts? How many of your moderate drinkers can be insured on 
the same basi? as total abstainers? This is a very practical question. 
Since I came to England, I have been studying up the history of some 
of your life assurance societies, and I hold in my hand lit'iral extracts 
from their own documents — not temperance publications at all; and the 
great outcome is that the total abstainer is paid from 7 or lo up to 15 and 
17 per cent, bonus over and above the moderate drinker. That is an actual 
result; that is not the fancy of sentimentalism; that is a broad, indisputable 
fact which Britons ought to respect as the result of experience. Not long 
ago, one of the assurance societies was addressed on this point, and made, 
through its secretary, the following report — I have the original letter in my 
possession — * During the past skteen years we have issued 9,345 policies on 
the lives of non-abstainers, but are careful to exclude any who are not 
strictly temperate, and 3,396 on the lives of abstainers; 524 of the former 
have died, but ninety-one only of the latter, or less than half the propor- 
tionate number, which, of course, is 190.* Less thaii half the number of 
abstainers have died compared with the number that have died among non- 
abstainers who were strictly temperate; and this is after an experience of 
sixteen years. 

" Are life insurance societies to be allowed to go beyond the Church in 
their regard for the health of men, body and soul? It is to be remembered 
that many whose lives are assured as those of total abstainers were not 
always abstinent. The contrasted figures will grow yet more striking when 
the abstainers are such from birth. These societies are not governed ac- 
cording to Biblical rules; they are not governed by this or that theory in 
science. Theirs, is stern common-sense applied to a selfish problem, and 
the outcome of It, under long experience, is hke a peal of thunder from 
Sinai. It is high time for the pulpit, it is high time for the pew, it is high 
time for the young men to arouse themselves when such are the signs of the 
times in secular societies. Here is the sea rising in a tide that kisses the Alps." 

. 5 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE "new JERUSALEM MAGAZINE*' AND THE WINE QUESTION. 

Several articles have appeared in the New Jerusalem Magazine , 
justifying and favoring the use of fermented wine, and its editors 
have refused to admit any reply. One of these articles we noticed 
in our tract on " Pure Wine," and the most important part of it 
will be found in the chapter on "Words for the New Church*' in 
this work, to which we call the attention of the reader, conse- 
quently it is unnecessary to. notice it further here. 

In No. XL. (June, 1880), the reader will find the most skillful 
and adroit attempt which, within our knowledge, has ever been 
made to justify the use of intoxicating drinks by or from the 
Writings of Swedenborg. The article is lengthy and strictly 
partisan; and the argument which, taken by itself, is quite 
plausible, is based upon a single paragraph from the "Arcana ;" 
but, as the reader will observe, it ignores the philosophy of 
Swedenborg as to the origin of good and evil uses, and leaves 
unnoticed a large number, if not hundreds of passages in his 
works, which teach a very different doctrine ; and the express, 
positive declarations of Swedenborg as to the inherent quality of 
fermented wine. But we will insert the essential part of the 
article from the Magazine, so that our readers may have an 
opportunity to judge for themselves, for we wish them to view both 
sides of this important question. The truth is what we all should 
desire, that it may be a lamp unto our feet ; and if we would 
travel safely we must walk in its light, and allow neither precon- 
ceived ideas nor our sensual appetites to blind us, " so that hav- 
ing eyes we see not." The Magazine writer says : 

"has pure fermented substance a good correspondence? 

" It would seem that no doubt can remain upon this point 
to one who recognizes the truth of what Swedenborg teaches 

(98) 



THE "MAGAZINE" AND THE WINE QUESTION*. 99 

upon the subject. In the 'Arcana/ 7906, he says: 'That the 
leaven denotes the false may be manifest from those passages 
where leaven and leavened, also where unleavened, are named, as 
in Matthew Jesus said : 'Take heed and beware of the leaven of 
the Pharisees and of the Sadducees / afterward, the disciples 
understood that he had not said that they should beware of the 
leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sad- 
ducees (Matt. xvi. 6-12), where leaven manifestly denotes false 
doctrine. Inasmuch as leaven signifies the false, it was forbidden 
to sacrifice upon what was leavened the blood of the sacrifice 
(Ex. xxiii. 18, and xxxiv. 25) ; for by the blood of the sacrifice 
was signified holy truth ; thus truth pure from all falsity. It 
was also ordained that the meat offering, which was offered 
upon the altar ' should not be baked with leaven' (Lev. vi. 17), 
and that 'the cakes and wafers also should be unleavened' (Lev. 
vi. II, 12, 13). 

"But notwithstanding these laws against leaven, and being 
baked with leaven, it is most remarkable that, as Swedenborg 
proceeds to say, truth cannot be purified from the false without 
what answers to leavening. He says : 

"*As to what further concerns what is leavened and unleavened, it is to 
be noted that the purification of truth from the false appertaining to man 
cannot possibly exist without leavening (fermentation), so called, that is, 
without the combat of the false with truth, and of truth with the false; but 
after that the combat hath taken place, and the truth hath conquered, then 
the false falls down like dregs, and the truth exists purified; like wine 
which grows clear after fermentation, the dregs falling down to the 
bottom. This fermentation or combat exists principally when the state 
appertaining to man is turned, namely : when he begins to act from the 
good which is of charity, and not as before from the truth which is of faith; 
for the state is not yet purified when man acts from the truth of faith, but 
it is then purified when he acts from the good which is of charity, for then 
he acts from the will; before, only from the understanding. Spiritual com- 
bats or temptations are leavenings" or fermentations," in the spiritual sense, 
for on such occasions falses are desirous to conjoin themselves to truths, 
but truths reject them, and at length cast them down, as it were to the 
bottom, consequently refine. In this sense is to be understood what the 
Lord teaches concerning leaven, in Matthew : ** The kingdom of the heavens 



flOO THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE** 

is like unto leaven which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal 
until the whole was leavened *'(xiii. ^^'), where meal denotes the truth that 
gives birth to good. ♦ ♦ * Because, as was said, such combats as are 
signified by leavenings or fermentations have place with man in the state 
previous to a new state of life; therefore also, it was ordained that when 
the new meat offering on the feast of the first-fruits was brought, the wave 
offering should be baked leavened, and should be the first fruits to Jehovah. 
(Lev. xxiii. i6, 17).* 

" From this we see that though leaven represents what is false, 
yet we cannot come into genuine good without conflict with it, 
which involves its presence, nor without passing through a state 
of spiritual fermentation answering to that of natural fermenta- 
tion. Not to have leaven in our houses is to banish the false 
from our minds in the only way it can be, by successful combat 
against it in the Lord's strength, which actually and effectually 
-CBst^ it out of our minds. We have no protection against the 
false, and all our tendencies favor its presence, totil in conflict 
with it we obtain the victory, 

"As man is not pure without this spiritual fermentation, so the 
passage teaches us that the juice of the grape is not pure without 
natural fermentation ; and that by the process of natural ferment- 
ation a liquid substance is produced that justly represents truth 
in man purified from the false, which is, in substance, the good of 
charity, 

" It is especially to be noticed here, not only that the purifica- 
tion of the juice of the grape is effected by means of fermentation, 
but also that of meal or flour. For Swedenborg says, 'meal 
denotes truth that gives birth to good.' As truth cannot be 
pure without spiritual combat against the false, which casts it 
out, so good cannot otherwise be rendered pure. And when 
the false is cast out by its subjugation in temptations, then both 
truth and good become pure. And so if we think of things 
instead of terms, we see that as leaven is the false, things become 
unleavened, that is, free from the false by the very process of 
what is called leavening. This subject is treated of in D. P. 284. 

"That there is a real relation of correspondence between 
the effects resulting from a successful meeting of spiritual temp- 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. loi 

tktion and the product of natural fermentation, is most fufly 
confirmed by the statement which Swedenborg makes when he 
says 'spiritual combats or temptations are leavening s in the 
spiritual sense* 

" When we consider what leaven represents — that is, the false 
and the false united with and flowing from evil— we can under- 
stand why it is so severely denounced in the Scriptures, and why 
he who eats it shall be cut off, that is, be destroyed or con- 
demned. It means that the appropriation of falsity and evil 
destroys man*s spiritual life. 

"But when we understand that there are two results of a 
liature opposite to each other that may arise out of the presence 
of the false that causes spiritual fermentation, one of which 
results is the adoption and confirming of the false, and the 
other the effectual rejection and casting out of the false, then • 
we can see that the former result is what is aimed at in the 
condemnation and not at all the latter, which, though it is the 
presence of the false that causes the fermentation, could never 
have been brought about without it. It is the doctrine of the 
Pharisees and the Sadducees — the false not seen as false and 
rejected, but confirmed — that makes deadly leaven. But, on the 
other hand, the false seen, guarded against, and altogether rejected, 
causes the leavening in its result to be the effectual establishing 
of the kingdom of heaven — causes it to be what is represented by • 
the * leaven which the woman took and hid in three measures of 
meal till the whole was leavened.* 

"This expression is very suggestive; for a woman signifies 
affection for the truth. It is an affection for the truth secretly 
fighting against the false, which alone can cause a successful result 
to the spiritual fermentation. 

"Very instructive also is the concluding portion of the 
extract given : ' Because with man such combats, which are sig- 
nified by fermentations, exist in the state preceding a new one of 
life ; therefore, also, there is a statute' that the two wave loaves of 
fine flour should be baked with leaven, and should be the first 
fruits unto the Lord. 



I02 THE " NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

"Waving the offering represents the acknowledgment of the 
Lord. Baking, as it is effected by fire, represents good flowing 
in from the Lord when He is acknowledged. When from an 
affection for the truth we have fought secretly against the false, 
until, in despair, we cease to trust in ourselves, and look to the 
Lord for help ; then there is an end of the conflict, and the good 
of love, which the baking represents, flows in from the Lord, 
and the leaven of the false is effectually removed. Then there 
exists a new state of life, or a state of new life, which is the state 
for receiving the Holy Supper," 

The Lord says in Matthew, that "The kingdom of the 
heavens is like unto leaven, which a woman took and hid in three 
measures of meal, until the whole was leavened." "Meal in the 
above passage," says Swedenborg, "denotes the truth that gives 
birth to good." It is not difficult to understand this comparison 
in its literal sense, for it shows the gradual progress of the king- 
dom of heaven in man until he is wholly changed, as leaven 
progresses until the whole of the meal is leavened ; nor is it 
difficult to understand how the sure and steady progress of the 
natural leavening may even correspond to the sure and steady 
progress of the kingdom of heaven in man during his regenera- 
tion. But it is not so easy to understand how leaven, in any 
other manner, can correspond to the kingdom of heaven ; for it 
is the kingdom of heaven which is likened unto leaven, and not 
the false to which leaven corresponds. "The woman signifies 
the Church" (A. C. 252, 253), or the affection for truth in man. 
To take and hide would seem to mean to apply or to appropriate 
to one's self. Now for man, from the love of truth which the 
Lord has implanted in him, to seek and appropriate the false 
until his three measures of meal, or all the truth which he pos- 
sesses, which should give birth to good, is falsified, would seem 
to be the correct interpretation of the latter part of the above 
verse, according to correspondences ; and if we can regard the 
kingdom of heaven as referring to the perverted state of the germs 
and remains implanted by the Lord in man, it may, perhaps, be , 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 103 

the correct meaning ; for we know that in the Word, the apparent 
truth is not always the real truth, any more than it is in nature. 

Of one thing we feel confident ; and that is, that, after reading 
the numerous passages from Swedenborg, to be found in this 
work, and even in this chapter, the reader will be satisfied that 
the interpretation given by the above writer, in the New Jerusalem 
Magazine, of the above parable, and of several of the passages in 
the paragraph from the "Arcana," is not correct ; for it does not 
accord with either tlie Word of the Lord or the writings of the 
Church. The explanation which the writer has suggested as to 
the possible true meaning of the parable of the kingdom of 
heaven and leaven, may be as far from the truth as the above 
writer's explanation, and he will not say that it is not ; for where 
he has not the clear hght of Swedenborg's interpretation, he 
treads with hesitancy, and would do so carefully and not dogmati- 
cally, leaving every one to judge for himself. 

What are we to think of the ingenious theory of our brother — 
for ingenious it really is — speaking of the fermentation of wine 
and meal, that : "Things become unleavened, that is, free from 
the false, by the very process of what is called leavening," so that 
the wine and bread which have been through the process of 
leavening or fermentation are really unleavened wine and bread ? 
The writer confesses that this is a new idea to him, and he does 
not believe that it was ever thought of before by Jew or Christian, 
and certainly not by Swedenborg; for, if the latter had ever 
thought of it, and had thought the idea true and useful, it is quite 
certain that, among all of his frequent references to unleavened 
and leavened bread and wine, he would have said something 
about it. But the fact, so manifest in the Writings of Sweden- 
borg, that he never even thought of applying such an idea to the 
fermentation of material wine and meal, does not prove that it is 
untrue. If true, it is a very important prop, and will do much 
toward upholding wine and whisky drinking, and the consequent 
drunkenness, for all time to come. How the Rev. Dr. Crosby 
will rejoice when he gets hold of it ! But unfortunately, perhaps, 
the writer is too short-sighted to be able to see that this theory 



I04 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

is correct. In fact, when applied to material wine and meal, he 
believes it to be entirely erroneous ; and his reasons will become 
more and more manifest to the reader all through this chapter ; 
but he will name some of them here. The essential product of 
fermentation or leavening is alcohol, whether it be wine, bread, 
or barley that is being fermented — that alone causes drunkenness. 
In the case of bread it is all driven off by baking with fire, in wine 
it is all carefully preserved. Will our brother tell us which of these ■ 
substances is pure and unleavened ? It is perfectly clear that one 
or the other is not unleavened according to this new theory. 
Let him boil his wine until all the alcohol is driven oflf, and the 
writer will cease to controvert his theory ; for it will then be as 
harmless as baked, leavened bread. The bread has been, in a 
measure at least, purified by fire, but the fermented wine has not 
been, and the reader will please bear in mind that it was the bread 
thus purified which was offered in the wave offering. 

The fundamental mistake of our brother, and of other writers 
who attempt to justify the use of intoxicating drinks from the 
Writings of Swedenborg, lies in their assuming that the grape and 
its juice, and wheat and its meal, like man, have fallen from their 
original state of purity, and can only be restored by fermentation ; 
as man is purified by combats during regeneration. While we 
know that the grape, and wheat, may become uncultivated and 
wild from the neglect of man, and may become diseased, yet 
there is not one word to be found in the Sacred Scriptures, nor in 
the Writings of Swedenborg, nor a single fact in science to show 
that good, clean, healthy, cultivated grapes and wheat are not as 
free from impurity, and as capable of sustaining and supplying the 
wants of the human body, when used as food, as they ever were. 
How unreasonable, then, to attempt to base an argument in favor 
of intoxicating drinks upon such a groundless assumption. 

We shall see that Swedenborg gives to the grape and its juice, 
and to corn, or wheat, and its meal, a good signification, which 
he certainly would not have done, if they were so impure that 
they are not fit for human food and for sacramental purposes, 
imtil after fermentation. 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 10$ 

Fermentation or leavening is but the first stage in the disor- 
ganization oi decay of certain organized substances, and alcohol 
i? the chief product ; the next change produces vinegar in wine 
and a similar acid in bread. In fermenting dough it requires 
great care to prevent the bread becoming sour ; and the same is 
true of wine, for by the time the wine is well fermented, a portion 
of the alcohol has passed or changed into vinegar ; therefore it 
is questionable if there is a single gallon of what our brother 
would call, or regard as, well purified, fermented wine in the 
country, which does not contain vinegar ; and much of it a com- 
paratively large per cent. Now, has vinegar a good correspond- 
ence ? And is a wine containing it, pure and suitable for sacra- 
mental purposes ? We think not. 

Wine is not regarded as fermented or leavened wine until the 
process of fermentation has been completed. While fermenting 
it is neither called, nor regarded as, fermented wine, but is still 
new wine or must ; and that it was so regarded and spoken of by 
Swedenborg is manifest; in fact, where care is not used to 
prevent fermentation, new wine or must is rarely seen, except by 
the maker, in any other condition than undergoing the process 
of fermentation, consequendy Swedenborg speaks of it as disa- 
greeing with the stomach ; but new wine or must, before ferment- 
ation has commenced, although containing more body, may be as 
clear as fermented wine, and in a given quantity is more accept- 
able to the unperverted taste, stomach, and head than fermented 
wine. 

In the above article from the New Jerusalem Magazine, it 
will be seen that the writer assumes and attempts to prove 
that the juice of the grape, must or new wine, meal and flour, 
are not pure until they have been through the process of ferment- 
ation ; and, consequently, before they have been fermented they 
are not suitable to be used in the Holy Supper, and, of course, 
not suitable as articles of food. He gives us to understand that 
not being pure their correspondence is not good. Right here, we 
will bring the testimony of Swedenborg as to the inherent quality 
of the liquid which is produced by his process of purification* 



io6 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

" Falses not from evil may be compared to water not pure, 
which being drunk does not induce drunkenness, but falses from 
evil may be compared to such wines and strong drinks as induce 
drunkenness." (A. E. 1035.) 

Now, surely, if unfermented wine is not pure, as our good 
brother represents, it never causes drunkenness, like his wine 
which has been purified by leavening ; but we can see, from the 
above comparison, that unfermented wine is to fermented wine 
what pure water is to impure water. And we will bring another 
comparison which will throw a little light, perhaps, upon one of 
the comparisons upon which our brother has based his arguments. 

" Inasmuch as evil is contagious, and infects as a fermenting 
body infects dough, thus at length infects alL" (A. C. 6666.) 
Infect means to taint or corrupt. 

" Good uses," says Swedenborg, " are from the Lord and evil 
uses are from hell. Evil uses were not created by the Lord, but 
that they originated together with hell." (D. L. W. 336.) 
Among the evil uses he enumerates all kinds of poisons — ^in a 
word, "all things that do hurt and kill men." {Ibid 339.) Here, 
then, is a criterion by which we must judge of the suitability of any 
article for nourishing and supplying the wants of our natural bodies. 
It should be evident to every one that substances which have 
their origin from hell, which, when used as we use legiti- 
mate articles of food and drink, seriously endanger, hurt and kill 
men, should never be used for such purpose. Now, gentle reader, 
you who desire the best good of your fellow-men, we ask you 
seriously, if you do not see or witness all around you a radical 
difference between the action of water, milk, and the unferment- 
ed juice of the various fruits, and the action of fermented wine, 
beer, and other intoxicating drinks ? — ^all resulting from the de- 
struction or perversion of good and useful articles, by leaven, a 
substance unquestionably having its origin or life from hell. With 
what you have witnessed of the effects of such liquids, are you 
surprised to find that Swedenborg compares intoxicating wine 
and other strong drinks to falses from evil, and that he deliber- 
ately calls whisky " so pernicious a drink"? 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 107 

With the philosophy of Swedenborg as to good and evil uses 
for sustaining the body, so clearly against the use of intoxicating 
drinks, with his comparison of such drinks to falses from evil ; 
and with his solemn declaration that intoxicating drinks are so 
pernicious that their immoderate use threatened the downfall of 
the Swedish people in his day; is it not strange that any reader of 
his works should search carefully through them, to find here and 
there a passage which he thinks can be so construed as to justify 
their use; thus, perchance, justifying himself and encouraging 
others to pursue a course of life which has destroyed so many of 
their fellow-men, body and soul? 

To render Swedenborg consistent with himself and with well- 
known facts, as we believe he always is, we shall find ourselves 
compelled to place a very different construction upon the 
quotations made by our brother from what he has done. We 
understand Swedenborg's meaning is simply to liken the combat 
which takes place, of the false with truth and of truth with the 
false, in the purification of truth from the false in the regenera- 
tion of man, and the purity of truth after truth has conquered, 
to the fermentation and clearness of the wine after fermentation ; 
for he says that, after " truth has conquered, then the false falls 
down like dregs and truth exists purified, like wine which grows 
clear after fermentation, the dregs falling to the bottom." This 
would seem clearly to be the meaning, and, that he could have 
had no reference to the inherent quality of the resulting wine 
excepting its clearness, is manifest ; for leaven signifies the false, 
and the unfermented must or new wine signifies " truth derived 
from the good of charity;" also, "the divine truth of the New 
Testament, consequently of the New Church." There is no 
evidence to be derived either from the Word of the Lord, the 
Writings of Swedenborg, or from science, that it contains any 
impurity, or anything which does not correspond to truth and 
good, most harmoniously united in the fruit of the vine by the 
Lord for the nourishment of man. 

The blood of grapes, we are told by Swedenborg, denotes the 
good of love, " and in the supreme sense the Divine Good of the 



lo8 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

Lord from His Divine Love." (A. C. 6378.) Does the above 
look as though the blood of the grape is impure, and that it re- 
quires leavening to purify it ? 

" ' And the floors shall be filled with pure com, and the wine- 
presses shall overflow with new wine and oil* (Joel ii. 24) . And 
again (iii. 18), *It shall come to pass in that day the mountains 
shall drop new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the 
rivers of Judah shall flow with waters, and a fountain shall go 
forth from the house of Jehovah ;' speaking of the Lord's king- 
dom where, by new wine, by milk, and by waters are signified 
things spiritual whose abundance is thus described.** (A. C* 
3580.) 

Do presses overflow with fermented wine, or mountains drop 
fermented wine ? We know that it is imfermented wine to which 
reference is made in the above passages, and it is not difficult to 
understand that wine and new wine, when spoken of in a good 
sense in the Word, always mean unfermented wine. There are 
two or three expressions, in the quotation from Swedenborg, 
made by the writer in the Magazine, as a basis for his argument ; 
which, if he had heeded, we think would have shown him that 
the ideas in regard to purifying natural wine and meal, which he 
has advanced, are not justified by the quotation he has made. 

First : It is "the purification of truth from the false appertain" 
ing to man, (which) cannot possibly exist without leavening, 
so-called" — or without combat. 

Second : " And the truth hath conquered ;" but supposing, as 
in the case of fermented wine, the truth has not conquered in 
the combat ; what then ? 

Third : "Spiritual combats or temptations are leavenings inthe 
spiritual sense, ^^ Now, if the writer in the Magazine had read 
the last sentence quoted above in the light of the first, it would 
seem that he could hardly have failed to see the truth upon this 
important subject. 

In the various passages which we have quoted firom the Writ- 
ings of Swedenborg, in regard to the blood of the grape, and must 
or nev/ wine, we have these various unfermented products of 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. IO9 

the vine having a good correspondence, according to Sweden* 
borg ; but the reader will find this subject more fully considered 
in the chapter on "Two Kinds of Wine." 

Now leaven, signifying, as Swedenborg tells us, "evil and the 
false, which should not be mixed with things good and true^^ 
becomes mixed with the must or new wine, and a combat ensues ; 
but, alas ! for the argument of our brother, the leaven overcomes, 
conquers, and actually destroys the most of the sugar, gluten, and 
phosphorus, and casts down as dregs the vegetable salts, all so 
useful to nourish the material body, and " make glad the heart of 
man." The resulting leavened wine is full of a poisonous sub- 
stance or liquid, the effete product of leaven, which, as to its 
inherent quality, is so pernicious that Swedenborg compares 
even the wine which contains it to falses from evil, as we have 
shown elsewhere. It is not the abuse which is compared, but 
the wine itself. That there is no true correspondence between 
the two processes is perfectly clear, for in. the spiritual ferment- 
ation or combat the truth overcomes, or should overcome, the 
false ; whereas, in the natural fermentation of wine, that which 
corresponds to. the false overcomes that which corresponds to 
the truth and good, and actually destroys and casts it down ; 
leaving a fluid which derives its life from the activity or perver- 
sions wrought by the leaven, and which is never found in the 
grape, nor in wine, until man has preserved it in man-made 
vessels, and with care retained it at a certain temperature (and in 
the warm climate of Syria this required great care), and leaven 
has commenced its work of destruction. It is then, as we see, 
produced by the action of leaven, and leaven alone, on the true, 
and good wine. Is it possible, we ask, for such a fluid to have a 
good correspondence ? We know that it has not, by its effects 
on man, when he appropriates or drinks it. 

The above writer says : " It is especially to be noticed here, not 
only that the purification of the juice of the grape is effected by 
means of fermentation, but also that of meal or flour. For 
Swedenborg says, * meal denotes truth that gives birth to good.' 
As truth connot be pure without spiritual combat against th6 



no THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE'* 

false, which casts it out, so good cannot otherwise be rendered 
pure." 

Now we understand this very differently. Truth and good as 
they appertain to man are not pure,, but as they come from the 
Lord they are pure ; and the same is true of the grape and its 
juice, and wheat and its meal, before either man, leaven, or decay 
has perverted them ; for they are the " good gifts of God to 
man." 

This view, we think, is abundantly confirmed by Swedenborg, 
for he says : " Flour or meal signifies celestial truth, and wheat 
celestial good." (A. R. 778.) Are these impure? Have we 
any natural substances of a higher signification ? Fine flour, and 
also meal, denote truth which is from good. (A. C. 9995.) 

Now, my reverend brother, do you really think the above 
substances can be purified by leavening them? No, no ! For 
"what is leavened," says Swedenborg, " denotes what is falsified." 
(A. C. 8051.) 

" The thing falsified, which is signified by what is leavened, 
and the false which is signified by leaven, differ in this, that the 
thing falsified is truth applied to confirm evil, and the false is 
everything that is contrary to truth." (A. C. 8062.) 

" By its being unleavened, or not fermented, is signified that it 
should be sincere, consequently from a sincere heart, and free 
firom things unclean. * * * Fine flour made into cakes 
in general represented the same thing as bread, viz., the celes- 
tial principle of love, and its farina the spiritual principle." 
(A. C. 2177.) 

Now, does it appear in the light of the above extracts from 
Swedenborg's teachings, that meal requires to be purified by 
leaven or fermentation, before it is fit for use ? The action of 
leaven upon meal or dough is similar to its action on wine ; it 
destroys and perverts, to the extent it progresses, the true, good, 
and useful organic compounds which exist in the meal or flour ; 
but as the dough is generally put into the oven and baked before 
this disorganizing process has proceeded so far as to waste any 
considerable quantity of it, and the leaven is destroyed, and the 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. ill 

chief product of fermentation — ^alcohol — is driven off by heat from 
fire, which signifies love or good from the Lord ; for this reason 
the bread becomes comparatively harmless, and never causes 
drunkenness like fermented wine ; and, therefore, there is not the 
same objection to its use either as an article of food, or in the 
most Holy Supper, that there is to the use of fermented wine ; 
but the writer would not recommend it for the latter purpose, yet 
he would many times rather use it than to use fermented wine. 

Speaking of "unleavened bread," Swedenborg says: "Un- 
leavened bread is good purified from the false." (A. G. 8058.) 

"By leaven is signified the false, and thus by unleavened or 
unleavened bread, good purified from falses." (A. C. 9287.) 

"That hereby is signified what is purified from all falses, 
appears from the signification of what is unleavened, as denoting 
what is purified from the false : the reason why unleavened has 
this signification is, because leaven signifies the false. (A. C. 7853.) 

"*And ye shall observe unleavened bread,' that hereby is signi- 
fied that there shall be no false, appears from the signification of 
unleavened bread, as denoting what is purified from all false." 
(A. C. 7897.) 

"The reason why what is unleavened signifies what is purified 
is because leaven signifies what is false derived from evil; hence, 
what is unleavened signifies what is pure, or without that false 
principle. The reason why leaven signifies what is false derived 
from evil is, because \ki\^ false principle defiles good and also truth, 
likewise because it excites combat, for on the approach of that 
false principle to good, heat is produced, and as it approaches to 
truth it excites collision." (A. C. 9992.) 

This is precisely what follows when leaven approaches new 
wine ; the wine becomes warm, thick, and muddy. A very useful 
lesson is taught us in the above paragraph, and that is that we 
should shun the false because it defiles good ; and for the same 
reason we should shun leavened or fermented wine, which we 
have seen corresponds to the false, for its use defiles both body 
and soul, as every day's observation shows us. 



112 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

The September number of the Magazine publishes an article 
on "Wine in the Word and the Doctrines," which contains some 
curiojis statements, to say the least. Among them the following : 
Speaking of the " extremists," in the temperance reform, the writer 
says : " Of which the writer wishes to say that he is an earnest, 
and for his brethren's sake, a totally abstaining advocate." And 
yet our brother labors with might and main to justify the use of 
fermented wine from the point of view of the Bible, and the writ- 
ings of the Church. 

But if fermented wine is a good and useful article to drink, why 
does he abstain, and advise others for their own sakes to totally 
abstain from its use ? Is it not perfectly clear from the above 
admission, that our brother regards fermented wine, when used 
as a drink, as a seductive and dangerous fluid ? — and that it is not 
safe for any other man than himself to use it ; and as to himself 
the above language leaves it a little questionable whether he 
regards it safe for him to use it or not. The present writer will 
simply hint to him that it would be unquestionably more dan- 
gerous for him to use it than it would be for many other men ; 
for it seems quite clear that he would use it, if he were to use it 
at all, if we can judge by his language, in violation of the clear 
dictates of his understanding, and the promptings of his con- 
science. It is never well to act thus. 

We think that if the writer had examined the subject a little 
more carefully in the light of the Word of the Lord and the 
writings of the Church, he would have hesitated before making 
the following positive statement, or of including must or unfer- 
mented wine with tirosh : 

"It will be seen, then, that the attempt to make the Word 
commend tirosh, and to infer that sweet wine has always a good 
signification, is not only unreasonable when we think of the 
pervertible nature of man, but utterly breaks down when we 
examine the passages themselves." 

And the following are the scriptural illustrations by which he 
attempts to justify the above conclusions. "Whoredom and 
tirosh \mu5tum\ take away the heart (Hos. iv. ii). "They 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. IIJ 

assemble themselves for com and tirosh [^musfunt], a:tid they 
rebel against me" (Hos. vii. 14). 

If fy'rosA has a bad signification in both of the above passages, 
so has com ; if one is condemned, so is the other ; but it seems 
perfectly clear in the light of a careful study of the Writings of 
Swedenborg, that neither of these substances in the passsages 
referred to, especially in the last one, has a bad signification. In 
Swedenborg's "Angelic Wisdom," concerning the divine love 
and wisdom, speaking of the uses for sustaining the body, he says- 
that there are good and evil uses ; and that the good uses, or, in 
other words, substances, are created by the Lord, and are usefiil 
to build up and sustain the body, and " make glad the heart of 
man." "Com shall make the young men cheerful, and tirosh 
\_musti^m'\ the maids" (Zech. ix. 17). Good uses, Swedenborg 
informs us, can be abused, but abuse does not take away 
use, except in those who abuse them. Now, when men give 
themselves up to a gluttonous use of com and wine, and drink sweet 
unfermented wine (as we are told by ancient writers that some 
of the ancients did, imtil their stomachs could hold no more, 
and then vomit it that they might enjoy the pleasure of drinking 
again), although it never causes dmnkenness, it becomes an abuse 
of a good use, but it does not change the substance into an evil 
substance or use. Cannot our brother see this? Substances 
which nourish and build up the body, giving substance, strength, 
and health, and which do not cause disease, are always good 
uses, and never bad uses ; but we have shown above, from the 
testimony of Swedenborg, that, although they may be abused, yet 
their life is from heaven and abuse cannot change it 

Of a totally different character are evil uses, Swedenborg 
informs us. Among such uses he classes all substances which, 
when used as food or drink, do hurt and kill men. He assures 
us that they have their origin from hell. As we have stated else- 
where, of no other substance on earth have we such long-continued, 
uniform testimony, sustained by our own observation, that it hurts 
arid kills men as we have that fermented wine does this ; 
and it hot only hurts and kills the body, but it also debases and - 



114 THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

depraves the mind, and causes the most fearful delirium and 
insanity. 

The reader should bear in mind that must is used to designate, 
not only the unfermented juice of the grape, but also- the juice 
during the process of fermentation ; and that during the latter 
state it is polluted by ferment, consequently during that state it 
has an evil signification, so that must may have a good or a bad 
signification according to its state. But the reader will find 
this whole subject treated more fully in the fourth chapter. 

Again, says the writer in the Magazine : " We have seen that 
the Word has yayin, tiroshy and shechar; that it uses all three in 
both a good and bad sense, and that there is no room for 
argument that tirosh is alone commended. '* Now we have read 
many volumes on the subject under consideration, and we 
remember no writer who argues that tirosh is alone com- 
mended in the Word. It is universally admitted, we believe, by 
the advocates of total abstinence, that _>'^jf/«, like the \ja.\Anvinum 
and the English wine, is a generic name like our word cider, and 
includes new and old wine, unfermented, fermented, boiled, and 
that which is preserved by filtering, settling, and by adding 
sulphur and other materials. We do know of one writer who 
claims that tirosh is only used for the fruit of the vine and sweet 
or unfermented wine, in which opinion he is perhaps mistaken, 
as we have shown above. Again, says the above writer : " We 
notice at once that mustum for tirosh is used (by Swedenborg) 
carefully, and with consistent reference to its use in the Word." 

"It means the 'truth of the natural man' (A. E. 509); 
'truth from good in the natural' (A. E. 5117) ; 'com signifies 
good, tirosh [niustuTn] natural truth — of the rational, bread 
and wine [vinuni^ are predicated'" (A. C. 3580). Again, the 
above writer says : "We have seen that mustum is understood 
to denote good in the natural, or good which is exterior. * * * 
The result of some study is the conclusion that he used vinum 
for fermented wine, as opposed to mustum for unfermeftted." 
The writer gives no distinct intimation that mustum or unfer- 
mented wine has ever any higher signification than what is . 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 1 15 

natural and exterior, and thus he leaves the reader to infer that 
such is his opinion. 

Now, we ask the intelligent reader of Swedenborg if the above 
is a fair representation of Swedenborg's teachings ; and if the con- 
clusions arrived at are those which an unbiased mind would be 
likely to reach after a fair examination of this whole subject? 
Let us look, and we shall readily find a few passages which will 
certainly give a very different view from what he presents ; and, 
on a more careful examination, we shall find that there are 
many passages which go to show that imfermented mustum 
or sweet unfermented wine, has a much higher- signification 
than that represented above. Surely no one will pretend that 
the blood of the grape is fermented wine, yet we read that : 
"The blood of the grape signifies spiritual celestial good, which 
is the name given to the divine in heaven proceeding from the 
Lord/'(A. C. 5117.) Does this need refining by man's inge- 
nuity ? 

"Must," says Swedenborg, ^'signifies the same as wine, viz., 
truth derived from the good of charity and love." (A. E. 695.) 
It will be seen that the above is a general declaration, and not a 
specific application, as in the instances quoted by the above 
writer. Again, we are told that, " By the produce of the wine- 
press was signified all the truth of the good of the Church, the 
same as by wine." (A. E. 799.) 

The produce of the wine-press is neither more nor less than 
unfermented wine. 

Not a single drop of fermented wine was ever produced by a 
wine-press from sound, healthy grapes. Fermented wine is pro- 
duced by the violent action of ferment, and by ferment alone, on 
the juice of the grape, decomposing and destroying the organized 
substances created by the Lord in the grape, most admirably 
adapted for the sustenance of man. 

On a careful examination, it will be difficult to avoid the 
conclusion that new wine must mean either the unfermented 
juice of the grape, or the juice during fermentation. Now, 
when it is spoken of favorably and commended in the 



1^6 THE **NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

Word, it is evident that it must mean unfermented juicef of the 
grape ; for surely no one can for a moment suppose that wine or 
must during fermentation, full of ferment and the heterogeneous 
substances which it has developed, can have a good signification. 
Even the above writer cannot claim this. 

" New wine *' (Luke xv. 29), says Swedenborg,"is the divine 
truth of the New Testament, consequently of the New Church, 
and old wine is the divine truth of the Old Testament, conse- 
quently of the Old Church." Now, will our brother tell us which 
has the highest signification — ^new or old wine ? We have abun- 
dantly shown else\^here that the best old wines of the ancients in 
Bible days were not generally fermented wines, but that they 
were unfermented wines. 

There remains but one subject more in the article in the New 
Jerusalem Magazine which requires notice, and that is Sweden- 
borg*s comparisons ; and, although we have already considered 
them in writing other parts of this work, still as the arguments 
of the New Church advocates for the use of intoxicating drinks 
are generally chiefly based upon these comparisons, we will 
present to the reader the comparisons selected by the above 
writer, with his comments in fiill, adding a few notes of our own in 
brackets, so that the reader may have the latest presentation by 
our opponents of the comparisons from Swedenborg before him. 
The writer says : 

"He (Swedenborg) Sa^ys of spiritual fermentation, that 'purifi- 
cation is effected in two ways, by spiritual temptations and 
fermentations ; the former are combats against evils and falsities,' 
the latter are 'evils and falsities which, being let in, act like 
ferments put into meal and unfermented wines — mustis [that is, 
they excite combat], by which heterogeneous things are separated 
and homogeneous conjoined and made pure and clear' [mani- 
festly in the spirit of man and not in the wine]. (D. P. 25.) 

" This is unmistakable. The leaven [spiritual leaven] is evil in 
its character. The result, if the process is carried out, is good, 
namely, [spiritual] purification. 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. .^ HJ 

^* Again, he likens the reforming process to the fermentation, of 
vinum or sicera^ and he adds : 

" ' If the good overcomes, the evil with its falsities is removed 
to the sides as the lees fall to the bottom of the vessel, and the 
good becomes like generous vinum after fermentation and clear 
sicera, [Becomes clear, like generous or strong wine after 
fermentation]. But if the evil overcomes, then the good with 
its truth is removed to the sides, and becomes turbid and foul 
like unfermented vinum and unfermented siceraJ (D. P. 284.) 
[Wine is called unfermented wine until fermentation is completed, 
or at least far advanced ; and as fermentation generally commences 
within twenty-four hours from the time the wine flows from the 
press, if no measures are taken to prevent it, it is evident that 
Swedenborg had in mind wine in this state ; for wine in which 
fermentation has not commenced is neither turbid nor foul, and, 
as we well know, is often kept for years without becoming either.] 

" These are plain words, a comparison being made which would 
not be made if clear sicera was a decayed product, nor if unfer- 
mented vinum was perfect wine. 
" So again we read ; 

'"The purification of truth from falsity in man cannot take 
place without fermentation, so-called ; that is, without combat. 
But after that the combat has taken place and the truth has con- 
quered, then the falsity falls like lees, and the truth exists puri- 
fied ; like vinum, which, after fermentation, grows clear, the 
kes falling to the bottom.' (A. C. 7906.) [By spiritual fer- 
mentation, so-called, we are told above he means spiritual 
combat — ^falsity falls like lees, and the truth grows clear like 
wine after fermentation — that is all.] 

" That this was Swedenborg's full understanding of the process 
of fepnentation also appears from his use of the illustration in a 
letter to Dr. Beyer, dated Stockholm, December 29th, 1 769, in 
which, speaking of opposition, he said : 'Such a noise does no 
harm, for it is like that of fermentation in the preparation of wine, 
by which it is cleared of impurities ; for unless what is wrong is 
ventilated and thus expelled, what is right cannot be seen and 



Il8 . THE "NEW JERUSALEM MAGAZINE" 

adopted.' [Fermentation simply clears the wine of the impurities 
developed by the ferment.] 

" There is no word adverse to this, so far as is known." 

With all due respect to the above writer, we unhesitatingly 
affirm that Swedenborg's writings are full of words adverse to the 
construction which he has placed upon the above comparisons 
which he has selected from Swedenborg's works. To admit \ 
what the above writer assumes, would be to admit that Sweden- ' 
borg contradicts himself and scientific facts with which he was 
unquestionably familiar, which is not true. 

The above writer, and others who attempt to justify the use of 
fermented wine, assume that unfermented wine, as it is squeezed 
from grapes, or flows from the press, is not a perfect wine, but 
that, like man, it has fallen ; one writer assumes that it contains 
earth-bom impurities, and that as man is purified from his evils 
by the aid of evil spirits, flowing in and exciting them, and by- 
man's combat against them, so wine can only be purified from its 
impurities by the use of leaven or ferment, which we are told by 
Swedenborg signifies " evil and the false which should not be 
mixed with things good and true." 

Now, we know not of a single passage in the Word, or in the 
writings of the Church, or a single scientific fact which will sustain 
the assumption that the wine as it flows from the press contains 
any impiuities, or that it is not a perfect wine. We have seen 
above, that the blood of the grape, must or new wine, before 
the process of fermentation, has the very highest signification ; 
and that must and even all the produce of the wine-press have 
the same signification as wine. Where then are your impurities? 
Where then are your imperfections in this good product of the 
vineyard, one of the most homogeneous substances in the world, 
organized by the Great Chemist, for nourishing and sustaining 
the human body, and containing in a liquid form, most wonderfully 
blended, the very materials required by the body. It seems 
almost a profanation to talk of its having impurities and imper- 
fections. ' * 



AND THE WINE QUESTION; 1 19 

Until ferment commences its destructive work, wine has no 
impurities ; but, after that, it speedily becomes turbid, foul, and 
full of heterogeneous substances ; and it cannot become a clear 
liquid until the fermentation ceases, and the resulting heterogen- 
eous substances are separated from the liquid by falling to the 
bottom, or otherwise. It is the fermentation compared to spirit- 
ual combats and the clarification of the wine, producing a clear 
liquid, which Swedenborg manifestly intends to compare in the 
above passages, and not the inherent quality of the resulting fluid. 
Swedenborg knew very well that fermented wine would cause 
intoxication, and in No. 1035, A. E., he compares such wine 
to falses from evil. Does that look as though he thought fermented 
wine was a good and perfect \<^ine, or that it had a good corres- 
pondence ? He knew as well as we know that the important or 
chief active ingredient in fermented wine is alcohol, and that the 
alcohol in wine is in every respect similar to the alcohol in whisky, 
which ht declared, long after his illumination, was "so pernicious 
a drink." 

Fermented wine is not a perfect or homogeneous wine ; for if 
the process of fermentation has been arrested, by bottling and 
corking, keeping it cool, or by the addition of alcohol or any 
other substance, which will either prevent or check the fer- 
mentation, you necessarily have unfermented wine, which the 
above writer represents as an imperfect wine, mixed with 
the fermented wine, whereas, if the process is allowed to 
go on until it is fully completed, before that time arrives the 
acetous fermentation commences, and you have vinegar mixed 
with your wine, so that in either case it is an impiu-e and polluted 
wine. There is no avoiding this conclusion. 

The following is tte conclusion of the Magazine article : 

** When our Lord instituted the Holy Supper, he used the 
expression 'fruit of the vine,' and this has been declared to mean 
an unfermented drink ; but, looking merely at the words, it would 
be difficult to see that they carry on their face any such meaning. 
Swedenborg, in speaking of this act (T. C. R. 708) uses always 



j;20 THE "NEW JEI^USALEM MAGAZINE" 

the term vinum. The Lord gave them vinum, saying, 'This is 
my blood/ and vinum signifies Divine Truth." (T. C. R. 706.) 

Of course, vinum signifies divine truth when it is applied to 
unfermented wine, but never when it is applied to wine after the 
process of fermentation has commenced. Vinum is. a generic 
word covering all kinds of wine. 

Says the Rev. Dr. Samson : " Not a shadow of doubt, then, 
rests on the fact, that, in the wisdom of Him who wished His 
will to be known as to the intoxicant, which, from Noah's fall to 
our day, has been, as Luther styled it, the sauf-teufel, or drink- 
devil (the tempter of Noah being, to the reformer's mind, the 
tempter most successful since the flood) , not a shadow of doubt 
rests as to the fact that the word known to all nations was selected 
by divine inspiration, as the one in reference to which the least 
possible mistake could be made in the records which teach God's 
laws as to the beverages whose nature must be learned by ih.6 
effects they are stated io produce, Yayin is like oinos, and vinum 
and vin and wein and wine as universally generic as it is univear- 
sally cognate ; and the Divine mind, that has made its meaning 
in all human literature to be manifest to the reader, meant that it 
should be, as it certainly has been, manifest also to men respon- 
sible as translators." 

Chemistry, as the writer has already stated, shows that in no 
true sense is fermented wine the fruit of the vine, for almost all of 
the organic constituents of the fruit as contained in grapes, and 
the wine as it flows from the press, have been either partially or 
wholly destroyed, changed or precipitated by fermentation ; ani 
alcohol, which will cause drunkenness, disease and insani:y 
(developed by the destruction of a heaven-bom substance, sugar) 
becomes the chief ingredient in the wine. . 

How contrary it is to the facts in the case, to either assert, or 
pretend, that fermented wine is the fruit of the vine, or that it was 
the kind of wine used by our Lord when he instituted the Holy 
Supper. Unfermented wine is truly the fruit of the vine, and is 
nothing else. Of this there can be no question. Let us either 



AND THE WINE QUESTION. 121 

use it, or lef wine alone. We must let fermented wine alone 
if we would live in safety; for all experience shows that no 
man can use it with assurance that he will not become a drunkard ; 
. and the man who has the most, confidence in his own prowess 
will, as a rule, be quite sure to be the first to fall. Brethren, let 
us beware ! We cannot violate the laws of God, as manifested in 
our physical and mental organizations, with impunity. 
'' A writer in the New Jerusalem Magazine for May, 1880, says : 

"There is no poison in the wine which 'makes glad the 
heart of man,' none in that which the good Samaritan poured 
into the wounds of the man who fell among thieves ; none in 
that which cheers but does n»t inebriate in declining age." 

Every word of which is true : but oh ! when the above writer 
assumes, as he does, that the kind of good wine to which he 
alludes is fermented wine, how far from the truth he is can be 
seen at a glance. We know that there is poison in fermented 
wine, and that it every day makes the hearts of men mad, and 
their wives and children fearfully sad, and never glad. Who 
would think for a single moilient of pouring such an irritating 
fluid as fermented wine into fresh wounds ? Such a wine will 
inebriate the old man more readily than the middle-aged ; and 
how can any New Church writer, when Swedenborg compares it 
to falses from evil (A. E. 1035), represent it as the "most holy 
earthly emblem of the truth which is divine"? 

Have we, as rational and accountable beings, (simply to gratify 
our perverted appetites) a right to enter upon an unnecessary 
course of life, and to teach others by precept and example to do 
the same, which the experience of thousands of years has shown 
is attended with such fearful danger to our present and eternal 
welfare, as is the drinking of fermented wine? Have we a right 
to thus endanger the happiness and welfare of those whom we 
should love by such a. course ? Will our friends of the New 
Jerusalem Magazine answer the above questions ? Will they tell 
us where the " enormous sin " of drunkenness lies, if it does not 
lie with the "beginners'*? The drunkard is insane, and, conse- 
quently, comparatively irresponsible. 
' .6 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE ACADEMY OF THE NEW CHURCH, AS REPRESENTED BY ITS 
SERIAL, "words FOR THE NEW CHURCH," AND THE WINE AND 

"whisky" question. 

Words for the New Church is a serial controlled by the 
''Academy of the New Church," we are told on its title-page. 
There is no editor's name given on the cover, and no signature 
attached to either of the reviews which are noticed in the follow- 
ing pages ; and, as now nearly or quite a year has passed, without 
any exception having been taken by either the Academy as a 
whole, or any member thereof, either publicly or privat^y, within 
the knowledge of the writer, to the ideas and style of the reviews 
under consideration, the writer thinks that he has a right to infer 
that the views therein contained are the views of the Academy, as 
a whole, if not of all of its members. He will therefore speak of 
them as such in the following pages. 

In regard to the first of these reviews, the editor of the New 
Church Independent says : 

"In Words for the New Church, No. VII., we find a review 
of Dr. Ellis's little pamphlet on ' Lay-lecturing and Re-baptism,' 
very much of which is so insolent, so dogmatic, and so untrue, 
that we should not care to reproduce it." 

The writer has long known and respected several of the promi- 
nent men of the Academy, and he is free to confess that he was 
somewhat surprised at the language used, and the spirit ap- 
parently manifested in the two reviews contained in Words for 
the New Church, 

Speaking of his letter to the Rev. George Field on the subject 
of "lay-lecturing and re-baptism," the Academy says : 

"This waif has strayed into our domain : and as it is clad in garments that 
isight give it an entrance to homes whose doors would be closed against 
(122) 



THE WINE AND WHISKY. QUESTION. 12$ 

it, were its intrinsic quality known, we feel constrained to examine the 
warp and woof of its garments, and, if possible, to show what it is in itself. 

"This brochure is divided into two parts; eight pages of which are 
devoted to the subject of lay-lecturing and sixteen to re-baptism. 

"In these two articles, and in a.nother tract by the same author on the 
subject of wme-drinking, he assumes to be a New Churchman; and he 
avails himsdf of the freedom whiteh is supposed to be the rightful boon of 
all New Churchmen, to oppose or ignore the teachings of the Writings of 
Swedenborg, whenever they appear to stand in the way of his arguments. 

" He seems to have fallen into the same error with many other would-be 
expounders of New Church doctrines, of feeling himself competent to evolve 
from his own conciousness, more or less enlightened by cognitions — ^legiti- 
mate doctrines, worthy of all acceptation." 

Now, gentlemen of the Academy, we have a few words to say 
to you, containing a Tittle useful information and a few suggestions 
and hints — nothing more. And if we speak in rather plahi 
language, in what we have to say in reply to your reviews, it will 
not be because we delight in using such language, but because it 
sometimes becomes a duty, in defence of a good cause, to talk 
plainly even to those who have been appointed to teach others 
the way to heaven. 

Such egotistical and dogmatical insinuations and misrepresenta- 
tions, apparently so full of the spirit of self-derived intelligence, as 
are contained in the above extracts from your serial, and in others 
which we shall select, might have answered their apparent pur- 
pose before the year 1 75 7, in an old, well-established ecclesiastical 
organization ; but, in this new age, they will frighten no one ; 
they may amuse some, but they will attract a less number ; and 
even laymen, you will find, will not " down at your beck." If 
you cannot sustain your views by fair and legitimate arguments, 
couched in courteous and gentlemanly language, you may as well 
give them up. " He assumes to be a New Churchman ! " Strange 
language this, to be applied to a brother in the Church, whose 
standing has never been questioned, and who has been well known 
by his writings and efforts to spread a knowledge of the doctrines 
of the New Church for more than a quarter of a century; 
and to one who, perhaps, has done as much within the last 
five years toward spreading a knowledge of the heavenly doo 



124 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

trines among his countrymen as any other man. He has written 
an "Address to the Clergy," of twenty-four pages in length, and 
with a moderate amount of assistance tendered by others, fifty- 
five thousand copies have been printed and circulated; fifty 
thousand of them having been sent to clergymen. The second 
page of the cover of this tract contained a circular of the gift 
books, and the last two pages of the cover and one of the body of 
the tract contained advertisements of many of the Printing and 
Publishing Society's works, and of the Convention's books; He 
has also written about one-half, and compiled from distinguished 
New Church writers the otlier half, of a work of two hundred and 
sixty pages ; of which twenty-six thousand copies have been 
printed ; twenty thousand of which have been sent gratuitously to 
clergymen, and six thousand have been printed for missionary 
use. Upon the cover of this work were also printed the circular 
of the gift books, and advertisement, of the other publications 
named above. As a result of the circulation of the above works, 
some thousands of clergymen have §ent for and obtained the gift 
books, who otherwise would not at this time have been likely to 
have them ; and many thousands of these teachers of the people 
have some knowledge of the Writings of Swedenborg ; and it is 
known that many of these are reading with interest, and that 
some are acknowledged receivers of the new doctrines. So 
quietly has all this work been done, that we doubt very much 
whether the circulation of such a vast number of pages of New 
Church reading matter among the clergy, or even the works them- 
selves, have ever been noticed in the Academy's organ. Words 
for the New Church : at all events, if such a notice has appeared 
in that serial, the writer has not seen it. 

Two other tracts, however, were written ; one a letter to the 
Rev. George Field, and another on the wine question, which 
were regarded as worthy of notice by the Academy; and we 
rather incline to think that another and larger work is being 
written, which will be deemed worthy of notice by that organiza- 
tion ; and that very soon after it is published, another number 
X>i Words for the New Church will make its appearance. 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 125 

Well, gentlemen of the Academy, we give you due notice that 
while the present writer lives, and the Lord gives him the ability 
to write and print, you cannot have it all your own way while you 
publicly, in print, advocate the use of intoxicating drinks ; and 
that while Words for the New Church may reach one reader, the 
reply containing or including the gist of your arguments, will be 
likely to reach more than one ; and we will simply hint to you 
that if your words are courteous and respectful, you will have no 
just cause to complain of the writer's reply. 

Now, gentle reader, the last page or two would never have 
been written by the writer, if it had not been for the ungenerous 
efforts of the Academy to impair the usefulness of his writings, 
for he would strive to avoid notoriety rather than court it in his 
efforts to spread a knowledge of the doctrines of the New Church. 

Who it is that "opposes or ignores the teachings of the Writings 
of Swedenborg, whenever they appear to stand in the way of his 
arguments,'' the reader who has carefully read our previous tract 
on "Pure Wine, Fermented Wine, and other Alcoholic Drinks," 
and who will read what follows in this work will be able to judge. 

To our suggestion in our letter on " Lay-preaching and Re- 
baptism," that it would be well if laymen, well read in the doc- 
trines, were encouraged to serve as missionaries in any unoc- 
cupied field, and to fill pulpits temporarily vacant, in order to 
accelerate the progress of the New Church, the Academy's serial 
says : 

"This, then, is the remedy offered by the writer of this letter. 
But it may not be a relief to those anxious ones to know that the 
Lord needs none of their help ? This is expressly stated in the 
Writings of Swedenborg : 

*A11 men are evil, and of himself every one would rush into hell; where- 
fore it is a mercy that he is delivered thence ; nor is it anything but mercy ^ 
inasmuch as He has need of no man.' " (A. C. 587.) 

If the above representation of the Academy is correct, what 
use is there for the Academy, and the small handful of anxious 
moving spirits thereof, who apparently seem to be willing to 
assume the name of, and to be regarded as, the only priests of 



126 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

the New Jerusalem Church ? If the Lord needs no man's heip, 
why do its members not disband, and thus make way for the 
descent of the New Jerusalem ? 

But the Academy, in the above lines, presents only a one-sided 
view, and consequently a mistaken application of the passage. 
The Lord needed a man through whom to reveal to men the 
truths of the New Church, and He found that Emanuel Sweden- 
borg was both fit and willing to cooperate with Him in this 
great work. The Lord desires the salvation of all men; but, 
having given to man freedom and reason. He desires that 
man should cooperate with Him by striving to keep the com- 
mandments, and that he should do this as of himself; at 
the same time recognizing and acknowledging that his very 
life, and all the inclination and power he has to do, comes to 
him from the Lord alone. If man does not strive thus to act, 
he cannot be saved. We have every reason to suppose that the 
Lord desires the promulgation of the doctrines of the New 
Chiu-ch to men, and that as we have fireely received them from 
Him, we should freely give them to others. There is, then, £|. 
sense in which He not only needs, but commands our cooperation 
with Him for our own good, and the good of our fellow-men. It 
is very evident that the above quotation from the "Arcana" will 
bear no such construction as the Academy has given to it. 

We must say that we are always pained to hear New Church 
clergymen proclaim such sentiments as the above ; for, so far as 
we can judge, they seem to manifest a state of mind too near akin 
to that which resulted in the promulgation of the doctrine of 
justification by faith alone, and the claim for spiritual dominion, 
which were so instrumental in consummating the first Christian 
Church, and which have led to the fatalistic doctrine which has 
devastated even the Mohammedan religion in our day — "God is 
great, and Mohammed is His prophet," and what need of our 
trying to do anything. Such views clearly belong to a consum- 
mated Church, and have no place in the New Jerusalem Church, 
"the Crown of all the Churches, and which is to endure forever." 

But, so far as lay-lecturing and re-baptism are concerned. 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 127 

what we have said in our tract has been simply in the interest of 
freedom in the New Church. * Our views are before the Church, 
and we have no desire for a controversy upon these subjects ; 
but to show in what a different spirit another reviewer has noticed 
the above "waif/* and to what a different conclusion he has 
come, we will quote an editorial notice from the Morning Light, 
the English New Church weekly journal, of May 2 2d, 1880 : 

" We have received a copy of * A Letter to the Rev. George Field on the 
subect of Lay-lecturing and Re-baptism/ by John Ellis, M. D., in reply to 
some remarks in Dr. Field's * Early history of the New Church in the 
Western States and Canada.' The questions are temperately and ably 
argued, and we think that Dr. Ellis abundantly proves the impropriety of 
discouraging lay-preaching and the requirement of re-baptism as a condition 
of membership." 

The writer has, as has been stated, no desire to enter into a con- 
troversy with the Academy on the subjects of lay-lecturing and 
re-baptism, especially of the character initiated by the Academy ; 
but the erroneous and pernicious views set forth in their serial upon 
the wine question, must be met and fully exposed ; and, to use 
their own delicate language, it must be clearly shown how they are 
"groping in hopeless darkness" upon this great practical question, 
which so intimately affects the welfare of the Church and the 
world. 

Before the end of this work is reached, the reader will be able 
to judge whose writings should be excluded from the homes 
where dwell those who themselves desire to live the life of the 
Church, and to train the young under their charge into an orderly 
and Christian life. It is certain that either the writings of the 
Academy, as containqd in their serial. Words for the New 
Church, or the writings of the author of " Pure Wine, Fermented 
Wine, and Other Alcoholic Drinks," should be carefully excluded 
from the home of every parent who has at heart, the best good 
of his children, and others dependent upon him, for we read, 
*• evil communications corrupt good manners." The teachings of 
the one or the other are fearfully evil and pernicious. 

Now, gentle reader, if you desire your children to drink intoxi- 
cating wine and distilled liquors, you have only to admit to your 



128 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

homes the Academy's serial, Words for the New Church — 
what fearful words — and the following is a sample of the chosen 
words of instruction they will find therein : 

" In view of the fact that many wine-merchants and distillers, participat- 
ing in the greedy desire for gain, adulterate their productions, it becomes 
necessary to be careful in selecting liquors for consumption, as well as for 
experimentation. 

" Much of the whisky which is sold as pure, contains amylic alcohol, v. 
the fusel oil, which is acrid, offensive, and highly injurious to the system. 

" Of the various articles now in the market, we may make a judicious 
selection, depending not only upon our taste, but also upon the respective 
liquors." 

Such is the instruction given in Words for the New Church; 
and, in accordance therewith, if such authors are permitted to 
enter' your homes, have we not every reason to suppose will 
be the example set before your children by those whom they 
will probably respect. How do you like it, kind parent ? Aris- 
totle's (the sage of antiquity) rule was, "When the danger is 
all on one side, abstinence doing no injury, while indulgence 
may injure, it is virtue to keep to the extreme on the safe side ;" 
m other words, to totally abstain. No one can question but that 
the drinking of intoxicating drinks is dangerous, and that total ab- 
stinence is safe, during health ; and that it is a duty, has been, and 
will be again clearly shown, from the authority of the Word of God, 
the writings of the Church, and the teachings of modem science. 
We will suggest to our friends of the Academy, that if they will 
even consult the writings of that ancient philosopher, Aristotle, 
they will perhaps get a glimpse of other virtues well worthy of 
their consideration, of which, as in the case before us, they appar- 
ently, at present, have not the slightest perception. 

Speaking of the total abstinence movement, the Academy says : 
"Strange, indeed, is it that New Churchmen should be 
beguiled into such movements ; but that they are is evident from 
the occasional display of temperance badges, and still more 
from the character of contributions made to our various periodi- 
cals. Beyond these, books and pamphlets occasionally appear 
from professed New Churchmen filled with the most egregious 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 129 

falsities on the subject of alcoholic stimulants, their use and their 
. abuse. Among these is a pamphlet, by John Ellis, M. D., entitled, 
•Pure Wine, Fermented Wine, and other Alcoholic Drinks in 
the Light of the New Dispensation.' Written under such an 
illumination, the reader would ex:pect a clear and complete expo- 
sition of the whole subject of intemperance, both as to its 
prevention and removal. But instead, he is introduced to parti-- 
san selections from physiological experiments, and, what is more 
lamentable, to such perverted interpretations of Swedenborg's 
teachings that he finds himself groping in hopeless darkness." 

The following is the first illustration of the writer's so-called 
"perverted interpretation of Swedenborg's teachings," which 
we will quote, and then quote the passages from the documents ; 
and then the reader will be able to judge who has been guilty of 
perverting Swedenborg's teachings : 

"Beginning with the title-page," says the Academy's serial, 
"he (Dr. Ellis) reads a selection from the Documents, which is so 
quoted that it holds Swedenborg responsible for what he never 
taught, and it even makes him dispute the plain dicta of the 
writings of the Church. The passage referred to, when read as 
it is in the Documents, shows that Swedenborg had reference to 
a people who were dissolute in the extreme. They were con- 
suming the distillation of a grain which was sadly needed as an 
article of food. Foreseeing the ruin of his own people, he urged 
that the authorities forbid, or at least limit, the sale of what was 
indeed, under the circumstances, *a pernicious drink.' " 

The following is what was printed on the title-page of our tract, 
to which reference is made above. 

"Total abstinence from an intoxicating drink, more desirable for the 
country's welfare and morality than all the revenue to be derived from 
licensing the manufacture and sale of * so pernicious a drink.' " — Emanuel 
Swedenborg. (See page 34.) 

And the following is what was printed on page 34 of our tract, 
and the reader can judge whether the above lines misrepresent 
Swedenborg's teachings or not, and we do not fear the judgment 
It was not intended as a verbatim quotation, and therefore, with the 



130 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

exception of the last four words, it was not put in quotation 
marks, but the reader was referred to the page where the ver- 
batim quotations were to be found. 

TESTIMONY OF EMANUEL SWEDENBORG. 

On the fly-leaf of one of his theological MSS., he wrote : "The 
immoderate use of spirituous liquors will be the downfall of the 
Swedish people." In his memorial to the Swedish Diet, of 
November 17th, 1760, three years after the Last Judgment, 
Swedenborg says : " If the distilling of whisky — provided the 
public can be prevailed upon to accede to the measure — were 
farmed out in all judicial districts, and also in towns, to the 
highest bidder, a considerable revenue might be obtained for the 
country, and the consumption of grain might also be reduced ; 
that is, if the consumption of whisky cannot be done aw£^ with 
altogether, which would be more desirable for the country's 
welfare and morality than all the income which could be realized 
from so pernicious a drink,^* (** Documents concerning Sweden- 
borg," by Rev. R. L. Tafel, vol. i. p. 493.) This has clearly and 
unmistakably the total abstinence and prohibition ring about it 

Now, kind reader, can you for a single moment imagine that 
Swedenborg did not mean to say what he so clearly says, that 
whisky is a pernicious drink, and that it would be better if its use 
were done away with altogether? Do healthy drinks impair the 
morality of men ? Do you think, as the Academy represents in 
the above quotation from its serial, that it was not the whisky 
which was pernicious, and which was demoralizing and destroy- 
ing his countrymen ; but simply the consumption of grain for 
making whisky, thereby threatening a famine, and thus destroy- 
ing the Swedish people by starvation ? But, when the Academy 
attempts to sustain a bad cause by the use of falses, it is very 
liable to make contradictory statements which defeat its object. 
Turning to other parts of the review, we find it zealously advocat- 
ing the doctrine that whisky and alcohol are good and useful 
articles for man to drink; and it even makes the following 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 131 

Statement, which seems to give special delight: "Many 
accredited authors acknowledge that alcohol, so far from being a 
poison, is food." Now, perhs^s the Academy will be able to 
tell us, if alcohol is food, how the conversion of grain into 
whisky, which is diluted alcohol, should threaten the starvation of 
the Swedish people, as it represents? It certainly looks very 
much as though this organization was "groping in hopeless 
darkness" upon this subject, amid the most destructive falses. 

We ask every intelligent and disinterested reader, if it would 
not be difficult to find in the English language a more gross 
misrepresentation of the views of another than is contained in 
the above quotation from the Academy's organ, in regard to the 
testimony of Swedenborg, as contained in the above quotations 
from the Documents, and all in the interests of whisky? 

But upon the subject of alcohol, as a poison, tlie Academy has 
discovered a mare's nest, with a very large egg lying therein; 
Ay I with the Irishman of the story, they have seen a colt in the 
form of a rabbit skipping from behind a stump. We can readily 
imagine how they chuckled, and how the members said among 
themselves : " Now, we have caught Dr. Ellis, surely, once more, 
in another of his 'lamentable, perverted interpretations of 
Swedenborg's teachings.' " The following is the Academy's colt 
from the mare's egg : 

" As an additional proof that alcohol is not essentially a poison, the 
experiments of Dr. Ford show that it exists in minute quantities in the 
tissues of even the most rigid * teetotaler.' It is formed from hepatic sugar, 
and may be readily detected by chromic acid and other chemicals." 

Well, gentlemen of the Academy, we think if you had con- 
sulted any work on physiology and animal chemistry, you would 
not have placed before your readers such a stupid and simple 
argument to prove that alcohol is not a poison, simply because it 
is found in the tissues of a man who never drinks it ; for you 
would have learned that carbon, also, is found in the tissues and 
blood of every one, as the result of the decomposition of sub- 
stances which have been taken as food and drink ; precisely as 
alcohol, when not taken in food or drink, if found in the tissues, 



132- tiil: academy and the 

results from the decomposition of substances which, having been 
taken to supply the legitimate wants of the body, and having per- 
formed their use, are cast out in a very different form from that 
in which they entered the mouth. But if the carbon is not re- 
moved from the system, by uniting with oxygen to form carbonic 
acid gas and by exhalation, the man dies within a very few minutes. 
So urea is found in the tissues, resulting from the decomposition 
and decay of worn-out materials from the tissues, which are 
thus removed to make way for new materials ; but if urea is not 
removed from the body by the kidneys steadily, the man dies 
in a very few days, poisoned by this substance. Now, does the 
fact that urea is found in the tissues prove that it is a suitable 
article for food, or that urine, which contains it in its passage 
from the body, is not a poison ? — and that it is every way a suit- 
able and desirable drink, and should be temperately used for this 
purpose? What nonsense to use such arguments in favor of 
whisky-drinking. 

We woild simply intimate to our friends of the Academy, that 
silence upon this subject would much better become a Theo- 
logical Acadeir.y than such arguments as the one under consid- 
eration, for there is no end to the illustrations which clearly 
demonstrate the absurdity and falsity of such positions. Even 
the fecal matter from the bowels, excepting a portion of indigest- 
ible material, have Ace been in the tissues of the body, and 
come from the decomposition of such tissues, but they have been 
hurried out through the blood, and separated in the intestines : 
but let a leak from a water-closet pipe, or the drainage from 
a sewer, contaminate the water which men drink, and we soon 
have developed a malignant form of inflammation of the mucous 
membrane of the digestive organs with malignant fever in some 
of the individuals who drink it. 

There is another small tgg, from which the Academy^s organ 
attempts to hatch another unanswerable argument, to prove that 
intoxicating drinks are good and useful. It is as follows : 

** Many accredited authors acknowledge that alcohol, so far from being 
ft poison, is a food. The organism may for a variable perigd subsist exclu- 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 1 33 

»vely upon even absolute alcohol, one to one and a half ounces, daily, and 
actually gain in weight." 

Alcohol, like opium, and some other poisons, retards and, 
under certain circumstances, may temporarily stop the waste, or 
removal of worn-out substances through the kidneys, bowels, lungs 
and skin, which is so necessary for the health of the body ; and 
alcohol, when taken into the stomach, craves water and robs the 
tissues, and may even absorb some moisture from the atmos-^ 
phere, but no intelligent physiologist, admitting all that the 
Academy claims, would say that such gaining in weight would be 
a healthy gain. A man would gain in weight by eating putrid or 
decaying animal flesh, or rotting vegetables, or rattle-snakes, 
poison and all, but does that make such substances healthy and 
proper food ? To tAie dog, decaying animal flesh is natural food, 
for his organism is adapted to its use, and he even delights in the 
odor arising therefrom ; but it is not grateful to the cat nor to 
man, any more than the breath of the man who drinks intoxi- 
cating drinks is pleasant to the temperate man. It does seem 
that the Academy must be very hard pressed for legitimate 
arguments when it will descend to such arguments as the above. 

Alcohol, we repeat, and at this day it cannot be repeated too 
often, is the " prince of poisons," — more to be feared and 
shunned than the poison which causes diphtheria and typhoid 
diseases. Where is the parent who cares for the present and 
future of his children who would not rather see his son sick 
with diphtheria or typhoid fever, from contaminated water, than 
to see him drunk, or suffering from delirium tremens. There is 
no other poison on earth which, when voluntarily taken, so per- 
verts, diseases, pollutes and degrades a man both physically and 
spiritually as alcohol. How can any man encourage and justify 
the use of such a fluid ? 

Still further, the Academy has discovered that a medical writer 
has declared that alcohol is useful in some cases of hemorrhage, 
and therefore it would apparently have the reader infer that it is 
a good and useful beverage for the healthy. That alcohol, like 
Other poisons, may sometimes be used advantageously, as a 



134 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

remedy, we do not question. Its action is to paralyze the capil- 
lary vessels, and thereby fill them with blood, and in cases of 
hemorrhage, by thus temporarily storing up the blood in these 
minute vessels, and preventing the heart from forcing it out of the 
body through the ruptured vessels, and by thus congesting the 
minute vessels of the brain, it prevents fatal syncope or fainting, 
and when thus used as a medicine it is useful. 
* So is ergot, or spurred rye, useful for restraining hemorrhages, 
but its continued use causes gangrene of the feet, a disease no 
more peculiarly the effects of this poison, than drunkenness is of 
alcohol. It is strange that men of intelligence should bring for- 
ward such an argument to justify the use of intoxicating drinks, 
and that not a single member of the Academy should have called 
attention to the utter fallacy of such an argument. 

We quote the following from the Academy's serial : 

" In bold contrast with the pamphlet of Dr. Ellis, is gn article 
which appeared in the New Jerusalem Magazine for March, 
1880. 

"Viewing the subject impartially, and accepting the teachings 
of the Church, without trying to distort them to favor precon- 
ceived ideas, the writer deduces a clear statement of the true 
uses of wines and liquors. 

" As an illustration of this antithesis, we quote the following : 
* Wine was xised in the Holy Supj>er, and the Lord tells His disciples to 
drink ye all of it; for, He says, "This is my blood of the New Covenant 
which is shed for many." This use of wine in the Most Holy Sacrament is 
perfectly conclusive of its having a good signification. If it were not in 
itself good, if it were poisonous or injurious to the body it could not cor- 
respond to the Divine Blood or Truth, nor would it be used with " bread," 
the other nutritious element. The Lord could not have drunk wine if it 
were a bad thing in itself, or " pernicious," as^ Dr. Ellis styles it. "' 

The second paragraph above contains a queer statement, to 
say the least, coming from the Academy as it does. To repre- 
sent the writer as striving to distort the teachings of the Church 
to favor preconceived ideas sounds strangely ; whether this repre- 
sentation is just or not the reader will have a chance to judge before 
the writer gets through with the Academy. But he will here say : 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 135 

the ideas of total abstinence from all intoxicating drinks did not 
descend to him from the perversions of a fallen state of a preced* 
ing Church, neither did he inherit them from his ancestors ; they 
were not the views of his childhood and early youth, but they 
were formed after deliberately examining the subject during his 
adult life ; such an examination having satisfied him that to use 
these drinks was to violate the laws of his physical organization 
and the laws of God, which required him to neither harm nor 
kill himself, nor to risk his own life needlessly, nor injure his 
Mow-man by his example. And beyond all this, these laws 
required him to deny whatever hereditary inclination he might 
have inherited, and whatever taste he might have acquired for 
Ac use of such drinks during his early life ; and to shun their 
use as endangering his health and natural life and his eternal 
welfare, and from the time of his first acquaintance with the 
writings of the New Church, to shun their use as a sin against 
God. 

In regard to the representation contained in the second para- 
graph above, quoted from the New Jerusalem Magazine, the 
writer has never held such views as are there attributed to him. 
Not one word which he has ever spoken or written would justify 
such representations ; and in the very tract which the Academy 
is reviewing he says : "Natural wine corresponds to spiritual wine 
— ^not to truth alone, for wine signifies spiritual love or love to 
tiie neighbor as well as truth. In fact, * The correspondence of 
wine is one of the very highest. It is given as faith (A. C. 1070) ; 
as spiritual good (A. C. 2187, 2343, 3513, 3596) ; as love ta the 
neighbor (A. C. 3570) ; and in the supreme sense as Divine 
Truth out of the Divine Good of the Lord (A. C. 6377).'" 
The author would refer to the following extract from the same 
tract: 

** Wine has a similar signification to blood. Blood is composed, not 
simply of water, which is from the mineral kingdom, and corresponds to 
truths upon the natural plane of life, and is the medium through which 
nourishment is conveyed to every part of the material body, but it also 
contains in a state of solution, all the substances required to warm and 
build up the material body, which correspond to good, all harmoniously 



136 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

blended in one fluid, a living current which is to the body of man 'vtdiat 
Divine Truth, always united with Divine Good, is to his soul. It is per- 
fectly clear that wine has a similar signification, because it has a similar 
composition. It has the water from the mineral kingdom; the sugar, which 
is so delightful to the innocent child, and which is appropriated to warm 
the material body; the gluten or bread-part, which gives substance to the 
various tissues; the phosphorus for the brain, the lime for the bones; the 
potash for the tendons and ligaments; and there is perhaps no part of the 
body which does not receive some nourishment from pure unfermented 
wine." 

Do the above passages look as though Dr. Ellis styles wine as 
a bad thing in itself, or pernicious? What he did say, and 
desires here to repeat, is that : 

" With most of the nourishing substances referred to above, 
which are contained in the pure juice of the grape, and which 
correspond to good, either entirely or partially destroyed, preci- 
pitated, or converted into poisonous compounds, even with the 
delightful sugar perverted by leaven into alcohol, which is so 
repugnant to the taste of the innocent child, what relation has 
fermented wine to blood? Its correspondence may have 
been appropriate to a state of the Church, when faith was 
separated from charity ; but how any intelligent New Churchman 
can sanction the use of fermented wine is an increasing wonder 
to the writer. It is in vain to attempt to justify the use of 
fermented wine, and other alcoholic drinks, from the standpoint 
of the Bible, the Writings of Swedenborg, or from modem science, 
until the great doctrine of correspondences between all natural 
things, processes and habits, and their spiritual causes, is abso- 
lutely overthrown. This correspondence extends to things even 
the most minute." 

The writer denies that the good wine of the Word, which is a 
blessing, of which the Lord and his disciples partook, was fer- 
mented wine which causes drunkenness ; but claims that it was 
the fruit of the vine, either the pure, recentiy expressed juice of 
the grape, or that juice preserved from fermentation, by one of 
the various processes well known to the ancients, and carefully 
described by the ancient writers. 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 1 37 

It does seem so strange, that with the tract lying before them 
on " Pure Wine, Fermented Wine, etc," Words for the New 
Church could have deliberately quoted the above paragraph 
from the Magazine i It is but just to say that one of the editors 
of the Magazine y seeing the injustice and wrong which was done 
by a similar misrepresentation of the writer's views in the Maga- 
zine, has amply and honorably apologized for the same in its 
pages, so that of the Magazine he makes -no complaint. 

"But,'* says the Academy, "there are some statements, which 

we think Mr. would not have made if he had first 

examined the writings. He asserts, for example, that intemper- 
ance in drinking is a greater evil than intemperance in eating. 
Most evidently the abuse of good is more damaging than the 
abuse of truth, and so may we not conclude that gluttony, or 
intemperance in eating, is more damaging and brutalizing than 
intemperance in drinking." 

Now, friends of the Academy, you have not fairly stated the 
question at issue, which is not " whether the abuse of good is 
more damaging than the abuse of truth," but rather whether im- 
bibing falsities from evil is not more damaging than the abuse of 
good, for Swedenborg compares intoxicating drinks to falses 
from evil. It is an insult to your intelligent readers, and an 
outrage on the common sense of mankind, to compare the eating 
of healthy food, which has a heavenly origin, or even its abuse or 
intemperate use, to the use of intoxicating drinks, which, accord- 
ing to the philosophy of Swedenborg, originate from hell, and 
which have hurt and killed more of the human family than all 
other poisons put together ; and which, in our day, are hurting 
and killing more men and women than all other poisons, war, 
pestilence and famine, destructive wild animals, and serpents 
put together. Even in the form of fermented wine, such drinks 
are compared in the Bible to the poison of serpents, and the 
cruel venom of asps. Talk of the temperate use of intoxicating 
drinks — even that old "heathen philosopher," Aristotle, as we 
have shown, teaches you a very different lesson from this. You 
might as well talk of temperate steaUng, temperate bearing of 



13S THE ACADEMY AND THE 

false witness, or of murdering temperately, for not more surely do 
such violations of the divine law damage man's spiritual nature 
than the so-called temperate use of intoxicating drinks impairs 
man's physical and moral nature. 

But, after finding so much in the Academy's Words for the 
New Church which is erroneous, and which we have felt it our 
duty to expose and criticise somewhat plainly, we are happy to 
call the attention of the" reader to a portion of their review, which 
teaches the truth, and clearly illustrates the same from the 
Writings of Swedenborg. Although we had exposed the error 
in our tract, and called special attention to it, to which reference 
is made, yet we are very happy to reproduce the essential part of 
the testimony of the Academy's argument in reply to the writer 
in the New Jerusalem Magazine, For the point is a very essen- 
tial one in this discussion — in fact, as will hereafter be seen, a 
vital one. 

Speaking of the errors into which the writer in the New Jeru- 
salem Magazine had fallen, the Academy's organ says : 

"A more serious error is the statement, that the imbibing of 
more truths than we are ready to apply to the various uses of 
life makes us spiritual drunkards. This view must have crept 
into the New Church from the Old, for there is nothing in the 
Writings of Swedenborg which sustains such an opinion. Spiritual 
drunkenness is something quite different from this, as we learn 
from the Writings. We read in the 'Arcana' ; 

* Those are called drunkards, who believe nothing but what they compre- 
hend, and therefore investigate the mysteries of faith ; in consequence of 
which they necessarily fall into errors. * * * The error and insanity 
hence derived are called in the Word drunkenness ; and souls or spirits in 
another life, who argue about the truths of faith and against them, become 
like drunkards, conducting themselves similarly.' (A. C. 1072.) 

* To be intoxicated from the cup is to be insane from falses.* (A. C. 
5120, 9960.) 

" So in the 'Apocalypse Revealed' : 

*To be made drunk with the wine of whoredom signifies to become 
insane in spiritual things from the falsification of the truths of the Word; 
here from the adulteration of them.* (A. R. 721 ; see also A. E. 1035, 3760 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 139 

*'But nowhere do we find a statement that if we imbibe more 
truths than we are ready to apply to the various uses of life, we 
are spiritual 'drunkards.' 

"Surely he cannot be called intemperate, who stores his 
memory with more truths than he is ready to apply, else all 
school-children would be spiritual drunkards. Man becomes a 
spiritual drunkard only when, from self-intelligence, he argues 
about truths, and especially if against them. 

" The more truths a man acquires the better, that his rational 
pinciple may thence be formed and that these truths may serve 
in his memory as vessels to receive faith and charity. 

" For we read : 

'That faith is perfected in proportion to the number and coherence of 
truths. NoW since faith in its essence is truth, it follows that faith becomes 
more and more perfectly spiritual in proportion to the number and coher- 
ence of truths, and consequently less and less sensual-natural; for it is thus 
exalted into a higher region of the mind, from whence it views below it in 
the natural world numberless circumstances and proofs that tend to confirm it. 
True faith, by means of such a number of truths cohering, as in a fascicle or 
bundle, becomes also more illustrated, more perceptible, more evident, and 
more clear; it acquires also a greater capacity of being conjoined with the 
goods of charity, and hence of being in a state of greater alienation from evils; 
and it becomes by degrees more and more removed from the allurements of 
the eye and the lusts of the flesh, and consequently is rendered happier in 
itself: it becomes particularly more powerful against evils and falses, and 
thence more and more a living and a saving faith.* " (T. C. R. 352.) 

How wonderful that the Academy of the New Church, with 
all its intelligence and wisdom, in its zeal to expose the errors 
into which the writer in the New Jerusalem Magazine had mani- 
festly fallen, should have been so forgetful of its position as to 
stultify its own argument, and so completely overturn the plat- 
form upon which itself was standing, as it does in the above 
quotations from its serial. 

If, then, the imbibing of spiritual truths never causes spiritual 
drunkenness, as is so clearly proven, how certain it is that the 
drinking of natural fluids, which legitimately correspond to spiritual 
truths, can never cause natural drunkenness. In other words, as 



140 TIIE ACADEMY AND 1HE 

fermented wine and whisky do causae natural drunkenness, it is 
perfectly clear, and as certain as correspondences are true, that 
these fluids do not correspond to genuine spiritual truths which 
never cause spiritual drunkenness. We think our brethren of 
the Academy cannot fail to see that they themselves are fairly 
caught, to use theirown courteous language, in presenting such 
"perverted interpretations of Swedenborg's teachings," as show 
that they themselves are "groping m hopeless darkness." 

Our friends of the Academy do not seem to understand how 
pure, unfermented wine can cheer and warm the heart of man, 
nor how "com shall make the young men cheerful, and new wine 
the maids" (Zech. ix. 7). 

"I am sorry," says the Rev. J. M. Van Buren, "to say an 
attempt has been made to justify the use of intoxicating drinks 
for the purpose of exhilaration by an appeal to the Bible. As 
this is the very thing that leads to drunkenness, and is the begin- 
ning of it, we may be sure that the passages supposed to prove it, 
may have another meaning. And so we find it (Eccl. ix. 7) : 

* Eat thy bread with joy and drink thy wine with a merry heart' 
The Hebrew word rendered merry,' means ^ goody ^upright* 

* virtuous J Put either of these meanings in the place of * merry,' 
and instead of the idea of an alcoholic exhilaration, we have a 
sentiment of piety consistent with Gospel temperance." 

In speaking of the effects of alcoholic preparations. Words for 
the New Church says : 

" Ideas flow more freely, the senses are more acute. As the 
•ambrosial odor of wine greets the nostrils, the affections are 
vivified, and thus is formed a social sphere which transforms 
a listless company into a chatty, brilliant, and entertaining party. 
Rudeness and incivihty give place to aesthetic refinement, and 
charity finds one of its most delightful recreations." 

Such words as the above are neither wise nor usefiil, and it 
would seem to be high time that our ecclesiastical fiiends of the 
Academy, should hear and heed the warning voice of others. 

A recent writer truly says : 

"Making drunk, includes all the preparatory processes of 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. I4X 

drinking ; the sin does not- lie in the last glass. All are united 
in the result. That which begins the work and inflames the 
appetite has the chief responsibility." 

Our brethren should remember that violence, manifest drunk- 
enness, and woe lie but one very short step beyond that state of 
excitement which they have described above as so desirable. 

" * It is not for kings to drink wine, nor princes strong drink. 
Lest they drink and forget the law and pervert the judgment of 
the afflicted.' Here is abstinence enjoined, and the reason for 
it plainly given. Again (Lev. x. 8-n), // is required of the 
priests: 'And the Lord spake unto Aaron, saying. Do not drink 
wine nor strong drink, thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go 
into the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die : it shall be a 
statute for ever throughout your generations. That ye may put a 
difference between holy and unholy, and between unclean and 
clean. And that ye may teach the children of Israel all the 
statutes which the Lord hath spoken unto them by the hand of 
Moses.*'' 

No one questions but that the wine referred to above as 
unholy and unclean is fermented wine, and no one supposes for a 
moment that it is unfermented wine. " But they also have erred 
through wine, and through strong drink are out of the way ; the 
priest and the prophet have erred through strong drink, they are 
swallowed up of wine, they are out of the way through strong 
drink, they err in vision, Ihey stumble in judgment. For all 
tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there is no place 
clean" (Isa. xxviii. 7, 8). 

How correctly and literally do the above words represent the 
effects of drinking wine and strong drinks, seen to-day as of old. 
Oh, gentlemen of the Academy ! beware 1 beware ! " Woe to 
him that giveth his neighbor drink ; that puttest thy botde to 
him" (Hab. ii. 5, 15). You have young and inexperienced 
men under your charge. May the Lord protect them. 

Philo, a learned Jewish writer of Alexandria, who lived during 
the first half of the first century, is full of important statements. 



X42 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

"In his treatise on * Monarchy' he cites, as indicating the dutjr 
of entire abstinence from wine, the prohibition to the priests ; 
and says it was given for * most important reasons ; that it pro- 
duces hesitation, fbrgetfuhiess, drowsiness and folly.* Dwelling 
on each of these bodily, mental, and religkyojs evils, he says : 'In 
abstemious men all the parts of the body are more elastic, more 
active and pliable, the external senses are clearer and less 
obscured, and the mind is gifted with acute perception.' Further : 
'The use of wine *. * * leaves none of our faculties free 
and unembarrassed ; but is a hindrance to every one of them, 
to as to impede the attaining of that object for which each was 
fitted by nature. In sacred ceremonies and holy rites this mis- 
chief is most grievous of all, in proportion as it is worse to sin 
with respect to God than respect to man.' " — Divine Law as ta 
Wines. 

Professor Tayler Lewis, in a recent pamphlet on "Wine-drink- 
ing and the Scriptures," says : 

" Our third class of texts, the directiy ethical, where wine and 
its effects, instead of being incidentally mentioned, form tiie 
principal subject, are easily disposed of. They are aU one way. 
Among others in the Old Testament see Prov. xxiii. -^9-3 5, xxxL 
4j Isa. V.I I, xxviii. i, 3, 7, 8; Jer. xxxv. i, 19; Dan. i. 8; 
Hos. iv.ii; Joel i. 5 ; Amos vi. 6; Hab. ii. 5, 15. They con- 
demn, with no reference to excess or moderation. Wine-drinking 
is spoken of as a bad thing, leading to ruinous consequences. 

"There is one evil state of the soul condemned throughout the 
Bible. It is that state to which we give the name of intoxica- 
tion, or inebriation ; bnt which, having no term corresponding to 
it in the Hebrew, is described and most vividly set before us 
(Prov. xxiii. 29, 35) in its phenomena and effects. It is the act 
of a person in health, voluntarily, and without any other motive 
or reason than the pleasurable stimulus^ using any substance 
whatever, be it solid or liquid, to produce an unnatural change 
in his healthy mental and bodily state, either by way of exciting 
or quieting the nerves and brain, or quickening the pulse. This 
was wrong — a spiritual wrong, a sin per se — ^not a matter of 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. J43 

excess merely, but wrong and evil in any, even the smallest 
measure or degree. Although there might be much ignorance 
in respect to its real internal causation, the outward substances 
known to produce this effect — above all, which were used for the 
very purpose of producing it (for here was the ^irJtual crime)-*- 
are denounced as something which men are not to touch, ndt 
even * to look at.' The description may be scientifically correct 
or erroneous; it may also be difficult to determine, precisely, 
what is meant by certain Hebrew phrases in this remarkable pas- 
sage ; but the general sense, as well as the precise point intended, 
is unmistakably clear. It is intoxicating drink that is meant-— 
intoxicating in any degree — drinks sought for that very purpose 
of producing such unnatural change in the healthy human system. 
There was to be no moderate drinking (or desire) here. How- 
ever gentle, exhilarating, convivial or pleasantiy soothing might 
be its first effects, at the last * it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth 
like an adder.' 

"According to the ethics so noted for its condemnation of all 
fanaticism, we should have expected firom the experienced and 
conservative Solomon some wise inculcation of prudence, mode- 
ration, avoidance of excess, rational use of the good gifts of God, 
etc. Nothing of the kind. Abstinence, total abstinence, is the 
lesson, if language can convey that idea. * Do not look upon it,' 
my son ; turn away immediately, as firom a venomous serpent ; 
think of its biting, stinging, maddening end, and let not thine 
eye yield for a moment to its ruby fascination. It was undoubt- 
edly purer wine than is now to be found on many Christian 
sideboards ; but the better it is, the more sparkling its hue, the 
more delightful to the palate as it ' goes smoothly down,' so is it 
all the more dangerous. The language of the whole passage is 
most urgent, reminding us of that used (Prov. iv. 15) in respect 
to other tempting sins that lead to a dreadful end : 'Avoid it, 
pass not by it, turn from it, pass away.' " 

Now, gentlemen of the Academy, we wish to ask a few ques- 
tions, and are encouraged to do so firom the fact, that your sin- 
cerity in advocating the use of intoxicating drinks, such, as fei«- 



144 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

merited wine and whisky, as beverages, is not questioned by any 
one so far as we know. 

We would like to know if your practice is in harmony with the 
views proclaimed in your serial ? As priests or ministering ser- 
vants of the Lord in His effort to save man from all evil as far as 
possible, are you in the habit of drinking these intoxicating 
drinks in your social relations with each other ? We are sorry to 
say that we are compelled to infer that you are from the language 
which we have quoted from your serial. Are we mistaken ? 

The prevailing spirit of the people, in your missionary fields, 
does not sanction the use of intoxicating drinks as beverages ; in 
your missionary work do you strive to counteract this spirit ? 

To how many young men and young women have you intro- 
duced the intoxicating cup ? 

Are you orally, as well as by Words for the New Church, 
teaching wives, mothers and. daughters that it is lawful and use- 
ful for their husbands, sons, and brothers, to drink, as beverages, 
wine, whisky, and other intoxicating drinks ? 

Do you wish to withhold the young from using these articles 
as beverages, in places of amusement or elsewhere ? We can but 
infer that you do not. 

When you see young, middle-aged, or old men, priests or 
laymen, getting drunk, have you, with such teaching and exam- 
ple, any real ability to restrain them from this "enormous sin?" 
(See 2422 S. D.) 

Do you really think that parents who have reared their chil- 
dren chastely and soberly, if they were to know that your precepts 
and example favored the use of intoxicating drinks, would be 
willing to trust their education in such an institution as the 
Academy ? 

Have you considered carefully what effect your precepts and 
example may have on young men committed to your charge ? 
If you have not, is it not of the divine mercy that the Academy 
has but few pupils ? 

Now, gentlemen, be frank with the Church. Let us know just 
where you stand, practically^ on the question of intoxicating drinks. 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION. 145 

If, after looking at all sides of this question, parents are still 
willing to trust the education of their sons to your institution, 
then the responsibility will be in part with them, and not alto- 
gether with you. If there is any division of sentiment among 
you upon this great practical question of life, will you be so kind 
as to let the Church know it ? 

We give you, and the young men under your charge, and their 
parents, due notice that in the near future no young man who 
drinks fermented wine, beer, or whisky, or uses tobacco, and 
teaches that it is well and right to do so, and sets such an 
example before the youug, will be tolerated as a settled minister 
by the majority of the lay members of any society which is able 
to select and support a minister. . 

"We -have made several quotations from the writings of Dr. B. 
W. Richardson, and we wish to call the attention of the teachers 
and students of the Academy, and others, to a recent work of his, 
entitled "Temperance Lesson- Book on Alcohol and its Action 
on the Body, designed for Reading in Schools and Families." It 
should be studied in every family and school. The following is 
a summary of the lessons contained therein at the end of the 
last chapter, which will give the reader some idea of the import- 
ance of the book. There is no higher medical authority upon this 
subjeqt than Dr. Richardson, for no one has experimented and 
watched the effects of alcohol more carefully than he has done : 

" Now that we have learned so much about alcohol as it ap- 
pears under the many disguises of strong drinks, we are, I trust, 
armed by our knowledge against its evil influences. We shall, 
however, still find many to defend the use of alcohol, for many, 
very many, are still ignorant about it; many, very many, are 
strongly prejudiced in favor of it ; many, very many, are so fond 
of it they cannot help praising it as a good thing for themselves, 
and therefore as a good thing for everybody. Such is the strange 
perversity of the human mind, that numbers of people who are 
going wrong, and who know they are going wrong, in the use of 
alcohol will still persist in their error, and with their eyes open to 
7 



J46 THE ACADEMY AND THE 

the wrong they are doing, will persist in leading others with them. 
It is one part of the madness inflicted by alcohol on its friends, 
that deceives them and in turn makes them deceivers. 

" You will have often in your lives to listen to the arguments of 
these persons. They will tell you a great deal of error, which 
you must be ready to hear, and at once recognize as error. You 
will be told that alcohol is a food because it warms the body. 
You know what that is worth. You know that akohol only 
makes the body ^<?/ warm because it causes more warm blood to 
come to the surface of the body, there to lose its heat and leave 
the body colder. You know that cold and alcohol exercise the 
same kind of influence on the body, and that when working in 
the cold, even in the extremest cold, that man will work longest 
and best ^ho avoids alcohol altogether. 

"You will be told that alcohol is a food because it gives 
strength to the body and helps men and women to do more 
work. You know what that is worth. You know that the action 
of alcohol is to lessen the muscular power ; that it weakens the 
muscles, and that, carried a little too far, it disables them for 
work altogether, so that they cannot support the weight of the 
body. You know also from the experience of men who have 
performed great feats of strength and endurance that such men 
have been obliged to abstain from alcohol completely in order to 
succeed in their efforts, and have beaten other men by reason of 
their careful abstinence. 

"You will be told that alcohol is a food, because it makes the 
body fat and plump and well nourished. You know what that is 
worth. You know that there is nothing in alcohol that can make 
any vital structure of the body ; you know that the best that can 
be said about alcohol in this matter is that in some forms in which 
it is taken, as beer for instance, it may, because of the sugar in 
such drink, add fat to the body ; and you know that this is really 
not a good addition, because mu^'\ fat interferes with the motion 
of the vital organs, makes the dy heavy and unwieldy, and 
getting into the structure of organs, such as the heart or kidneys, 
makes these organs incapable of work, and so destroys life. 



WINE AND WHISKY QUESTION, JAf 

"You will be told that alcohol makes you digest your food, 
and helps people with weak digestion to enjoy their food and 
digest it. You know what that is worth. You know that every 
other animal except man can enjoy and digest food without 
alcohol, and that men who never touch alcohol may have excel- 
lent digestive power. You know also that alcohol impairs 
digestion, and that in thousands of people it keeps up a con- 
tinual state of indigestion, and that the indigestion itself is a 
temptation to these to take alcohol to a fatal excess. 

"You will be told that if alcohol be not a food, in the strict 
sense of the word, it is, notwithstanding, a luxury which a man 
cannot do without with comfort to himself; that it cheers the 
heart, and is necessary for mirth and pleasure. You. know what 
that is worth. You. know that young people, like yourselves, can 
laugh and play and be as happy as the day is long without ever 
tasting a drop of alcohol. You know that hundreds of men and 
women are as happy as they can be without a drop of alcohol, 
and are much freer from worry and anger and care about mere 
trifles than are those who take alcohol. You know, moreover, 
^ that after men or women have been cheered, as they call it, by 
alcohol, they suffer a corresponding depression, and are made 
often so miserable that life is a burden to them until once again 
they have recourse to their cause of short happiness and long 
sorrow. 

" Lastly, whatever argument you may hear in favor of alcohol, 
you are now fully aware of its fatal power ; how it kills men and 
women wholesale, sending some to the grave straightway, and 
some to the grave through that living grave, the asylum for the 
insane. 

"This is your knowledge. I would not advise you as juniors 
to intrude it in argument on your seniors, for that were presump- 
tuous. But treasure it in your hearts. Let it keep you in the 
path of perfect abstinence f^Mn alcohol in every disguise^ and 
believe me, as a man who IS's seen much of men, that your 
example will be all the more effective with older persons because 
it is a young example. Believe, finally, that you yourselves will. 



148 THE ACADEMY AND THE WINE QUESTION. 

under the rule of total abstinence, grow up strengthened in 
wisdom, industry, and happiness, and that your success in life 
will reward you a thousand-fold for every sacrifice of false indul- 
gence in that great curse of mankind — strong drink.** 

In the first chapter of the work, the writer says : 

"To persons who have never tasted intoxicating drinks many 
of them are nauseous when first tasted. Even to grown-up men, 
who have never before taken these liquids into their mouths, the 
first taste is like that which is felt on taking a medicine. The 
taste is said to be bitter in respect to ales, clammy and sickening 
in respect to porter and stout, burning and sickening in respect 
to spirits, and burning and sour, or burning and sweet, in respect 
to the wines. 

" In all my experience I never once knew a person who liked 
the first taste of any of the drinks we are now thinking about. 
This fact seems to me to show clearly that it was never intended 
that human beings should take these drinks regularly. If that 
had been intended, the drinks would have been made and given 
to us in a form that would have been pleasant to the taste, or at 
all events in a form that would not be so unpleasant, that the 
instinctive or natural feeling is opposed to them. Water and 
milk are natural drinks. They are neither bitter nor nauseous, 
nor acid, nor burning, and therefore even the youngest infants 
and children take them without dislike, and look for them with 
quite a longing desire when they want to drink. 

" It is a lesson early to be remembered, and so I write it down 
early in this book, that although there are so many drinks made 
and sold as beers, wines, and spirits, none of them are fitted to 
the first natural warits and desires of man. I gather firom the 
facts before us that the said drinks are therefore not wanted at all.** 

We hope the students of the Academy and the young men and 
maidens of the New Church will hear and heed these important 
words. 



CHAPTER X. 

THE COMPARISONS OF EMANUEL SWEDENfeORG AND THE ACADEMY'S 
INTERPRETATIONS. 

Processes, although very different in their results, may be com- 
pared, as the separation of individuals and the organization of 
societies in hell may be compared with the separation and organi- 
zation of societies in heaven, for in both they are organized accord- 
ing to the ruling loves of those who dwell therein ; but such a 
comparison does not make hell desirable, nor the life which leads 
to hell a desirable one. Comparisons, when made by Sweden- 
borg, may or may not be according to correspondences ; but the 
spiritual world, being the world of causes, effects must always of 
necessity correspond to the causes which have produced them. 
When Swedenborg compares, as he does in No. 1035 ^' P-> 
'^falses from evil to such wine and strong drinks as induce 
drunkenness ; wherefore, also, that insanity, in the Word, is said 
to be effected by wine of whoredom and the wine of Babel, in 
Jeremiah li. 7," it is not difficult to understand and see that this 
comparison is written in accordance with correspondences ; but 
when the Academy, in Words /or the New Church, claims that 
alcohol is not a poison, from the comparison which Swedenborg 
makes in C.L. 145, "where it is written that spiritual purification 
may be compared with the purification of natural spirits which is 
done by chemists, and is called defecation, rectification, castiga- 
tion, cohobation, acution, decantation and sublimation; and 
wisdom purified may be compared with alcohol which is spirit 
most highly rectified ; " it is not easy to see the correspondence ; 
and when from this comparison they attempt to justify the use of 
intoxicating drinks, and even whisky, it is not difficult to see how 
far they have wandered from the truth. The great object of the 
above processes for purifying spirits, is especially to remove all 



150 COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG AND 

the water and other substances which these fluids ordinarily, 
contain. Take the fermented wine, for instance, from which this 
pure alcohol can be made by the processes named by Sweden- 
borg in this comparison, everything, including the water as far as 
possible, is carefully removed, leaving pure spirits or alcohol. This 
pure spirit, we know by its effects, corresponds to falses from 
evil, and is to the human body a caustic fluid, and no one but 
the hardest " old toper," the mucous membrane of whose mouth 
and stomach has been indurated by a long course of drunkenness, 
would ever attempt to drink it. This pure spirit, when drank in 
a given quantity, causes drunkenness, and even death, more 
speedily than any other intoxicating drink ; and yet the Academy 
would have us understand, that this purified alcohol, which 
never has been used, and which cannot be used by any sober, 
Sane man, as a drink, corriesponds to wisdom purified, and is 
every way a suitable drink for man. Try it on a child ! We ask 
every intelligent reader, if wisdom purified, in its action upon the 
spirit of mauj bears any resemblance to the action of this pure 
spirit upon his body and mind ? The Academy does not seem 
able to see that Swedenborg is here simply comparing a spiritual 
and a natural process of purification, and the purity of wisdom 
with the purity of alcohol thus produced, and that his compari- 
son in no way destroys the poisonous quality of the alcohol, or 
renders it a suitable article for drinking, as all experience shows. 
As upon the above comparison, and another by Swedenborg, 
the Academy has based almost, if not quite all, of its arguments 
in favor of the use of intoxicating drinks, we will quote the latter 
in full, and call the special attention of the reader to the incon- 
sistency of the construction which they put upon it : i 

" 'A man's understanding is receptive of good as well as of evil, 
and of truth as well as of falsity, but not his will, which must be 
either in evil or in good ; it cannot be in both, for the will is the 
ftian himself, and therein is his life's love. But good and evil in 
the understanding are separated, like internal and external ;. 
hence a man may be interiorly in evil, and exteriorly in , good. 



INTERPRETATIONS BY THE ACADEMY. 151 

Still, however, when a man is reformed, good and evil enter into 
combat, and there then exists a conflict or battle, which, if 
grievous, is called temptation ; but if not, is like the fermentation 
of wine or wort. In such a case, if good overcomes, evil with its 
falsities is removed to the sides, as the lees fall to the bottom of 
a vessel ; and good becomes like generous wine after fermenta- 
tion, or clear liquor ; but if evil overcomes, good with its truth is 
removed to the sides, and it becomes turbid and foul like unfer- 
mented wine or unfermented liquor. This comparison of fer- 
mentation is used because leaven in the Word signifies the 
falsity of evil, as in Hosea vii. 4 ; Luke xii. i : and in other 
places/ (D. P. 284.) 

" In this beautiful extract, evil with its falsities is compared with 
leaven and wi\h the lees ; and good is compared with generous 
wine. One would naturally infer that these respective compari- 
sons indicate resemblances between the objects compared ; and 
hence that good and wine were both genuine. And this conclu- 
sion would seem to be the more evident from the adjective which 
Swedenborg uses ; for generous, when applied to wine, means 
noble, vigorous, pure, good." 

For a correct understanding of the above comparison, various 
points must be borne in mind. 

First : That the word generous^ as here used, does not neces- 
sarily irtean good, but it undoubtedly means vigorous or strong in 
this instance. In this sense, the term is used by medical writers 
at this day. 

Second : In the process of fermentation, the gluten contained 
in the wine as it is pressed from the grape, and which nourishes 
the body of man as good does his soul, which is, in fact, similar 
to the gluten 5n bread, is actually overcome and destroyed to the 
extent fermentation progresses by the leaven, and the sugar 
which, we are told by Swedenborg, corresponds to spiritual 
delights, is often entirely destroyed, and even the vegetable salts 
so useful to man, are, to a great extent, changed or precipitated. 
so that it is perfectly clear that the changes which take place during 



152 COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG AND 

fermentation do not in the slightect degree correspond with the 
spiritual changes which take place in man s regeneration. 

Then, by what authority does the Academy's organ say that in 
the above extract, evil with its falsities is compared with leaven 
and lees. It will be seen that this representation is not correct ; 
for it is the combat and separation and falling to the bottom which 
is compared, and not the leaven and lees. Lees have a good sig- 
nification when this word is used in a good sense, as in Isaiah xxv. 6. 
Speaking of the " feast of fat things, and wine on the lees, wine 
on the lees well refined" : "By the feast of fat things, of fat 
things full of marrow," says Swedenborg, "is signified good, both 
natural and spiritual, with joy of heart ; and by the lees, and 
lees refined, are signified truths from that good with the felicity 
thence derived." (A. E. 1159.) "A feast of fat things signi- 
fies the appropriation and communication of good, and by a feast 
of lees, or the best wine, the appropriation of truth" (A. E. 252), 
called a ^^ feast of lees'' (A. C. 5943.) Such is the signification of 
lees when they result simply from the settling, after straining or fil- 
tering — refining — of the heavier portions of the grape juice or new 
wine. But it is perfectly evident that the lees which fall to the bot- 
tom during the fermentation of wine can have no such signification, 
so that the Academy, after all, is not so far from the truth, when 
it claims that lees are compared by Swedenborg to falsities, and, 
consequently, according to their philosophy, correspond to falsities. 
Swedenborg, it will be seen, as if afraid his readers might mistake 
the true ipeaning of the above comparison, says : "This com- 
parison of fermentation is used because leaven in the Word 
signifies the falsity of evil." If the lees, which fall to the 
bottom from the action of leaven on wine, instead of having a 
good signification as they do when they are used in a good sense 
in the Word, have a bad signification, how can the wine firom 
which such lees have been separated fail to have an evil signifi- 
cation ? Unfermented wine, at the commencement of ferment- 
ation, in which state it is generally seen at this day when no 
effort is made to prevent fermentation, is turbid and foul from 
the commencing action of leaven, and in this state it is unwhole- 



INTERPRETATIONS IJY THE ACADEMY. 153 

some to the stomach ; and Swedenborg explains fully what he 
means when he says that "good becomes like generous ( or sfepong) 
wine after fermentation," by what he adds — "or clear liquor." 

It seems so strange that men, as well read in the writings of 
the Church as the members of the Academy are supposed to be, 
should make such a serious and grave mistake, as to attempt to 
justify the use of intoxicating drinks from such comparisons as| 
the above found in the Writings of Swedenborg ; when the very 
comparisons which they select, teach a very different doctrine, 
which is, as we have seen sustained by reason, facts, and science ; 
the pure spirit or alcohol of the one comparison being so ob- 
noxious and irritating that no one but a drunkard would ever 
think of drinking it, and even the lees of the other comparison, 
admitted by the Academy to correspond to falsities. Is it strange 
that Swedenborg should inform us, as he does in the passage 
already quoted, that the resulting wine may; be compared to 
falses from evil? — please remember it is not the process which he 
here compares, but the wine itself. How are we to account for 
this strange state of darkness in which the "Academy of the New 
Church" so manifestly dwells upon this most vital question, so 
intimately affecting the welfare of the New Church and the ^orld ? 
In reply to this question, we will first state that, according to the 
Writings of Swedenborg, the first Christian Church came to its end 
over a century ago, through evils of life and ,the falsifications of the 
doctrines taught by the Lord when on earth, and by His disciples 
soon after His ascension. Even the ordinances of the Church be- 
came perverted, until a wine which was prohibited to the Jews, and 
which was providentially prohibited, owing to its known poisonous 
qualities, by Mohammed to his followers, and which was regarded 
as so polluted, that even the ancient heathen would not dare to 
offer it to their gods, was substituted for the passover cup, or the 
fruit of the vine, or unfermented wine, of which our Lord and 
His disciples partook at the last supper. And this sad perversion 
seems to have descended to the New Church Academy unques- 
tioned, and they seem to have been strongly confirmed in such 
false views, even to the extent of justifying the use of intoxicating 



154 COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG AND 

drinks as beverages, from which we may as rightfully select and 
use as we may from beneficial articles of food or drink. 

Swedenborg says: "Those who are in falses, and especially 
those who are in evils, are said to be bound and in prison ; not 
that they are in any bonds, but because they are not in freedom ; 
those who are not in freedom being interiorly bound ; for those 
ivho have confirmed themselves in what is false are no longer in 
freedom of choosing and accepting the truth, and those who have 
much confirmed themselves therein are not in freedom to see it, 
stiU less to acknowledge and believe it, for they are in the per- 
suasion that what is false is true, and what is true is false ; so 
powerful is this persuasion, that it takes away all freedom of 
thinking anything else, consequently it holds the thought itself 
in bonds and as it were in a prison. This I had much opportunity 
6f being convinced of, , experimentally, from those in the other 
life who have been in a persuasion of the false by confirmations 
in themselves ; they do not at all admit truths, but reflect or 
strike them back again, and this with an obstinacy proportion- 
a;te to the degree of persuasion ; especially when the false is 
grounded in evil, or when evil has persuaded them." (A. C. 
5096O 

From the above we can see how difficult it is for men who are' 
confirmed in falses to see the truth, and especially for those who 
are in evils to see the truth which condemns those evils. Men 
did not often see that slavery was wrong while they held slaves, 
and this fearful wrong was justified from the point of view of the 
fiible by many clergymen, and, if we mistake not, by some clergy- 
men of the New Church ; but now, that, in the providence of 
the Lord, slavery has been overthrown, few, if any, fail to see that 
slavery was wrong. It is equally, if not even more, difficult, to 
see that evil habits of life are evil, so long as we continue to 
indulge in them. The woman who compresses her waist does not 
see that tight-dressing harms her, and is consequently an evil, so 
long as she continues this pernicious habit, which does so much to 
ruin the health of women, impair the vitality of our race, and 
shorten human life. She actually feels that tight-dressing does her 



INTERPRETATIONS BY THE ACADEMY. 155 

good every time she indulges in it — ^without it she feels all gone, 
precisely as the rum-drinker does who has not had his morning 
dram. The man who habitually uses that disgusting and deadly 
poison, tobacco, does not feel that it injures him, and that it is 
wrong to use it : how can he ? He "hankers " after it, and suffers 
when he attempts to leave it off; and the resumption of its use 
relieves him, cheers him, and makes him feel good. The same 
is true with the habitual indulger in opium, and, in fact, with the 
consumer of every other poison, when habitually used. This is 
especially true, as we all know, and have seen, with the drinkers 
of that fearfully destructive and deadly poison, alcohol, in what- 
ever form it may be taken. Therefore, as a rule, and according to 
Swedenborg's teaching, we cannot expect men who habitually 
indulge in the evil habit of using intoxicating wine and whisky, 
however "judiciously" they may select their liquors, to see that 
it is wrong to use tliem. It will be seen that it would be asking 
too much of poor human nature to expect them to see the fearful 
nature of this evil, as those who are free from such habits clearly 
see it. Nor need the teetotaller be discouraged even though 
the leading spirits of the Academy do not join our ranks, although 
we have hope even for them still, and charity, too. But for the 
young, who have not confirmed themselves in favor of drinking 
intoxicating drinks, and who are free from the evil of drinking, 
we may labor earnestly, faithfully, and hopefully, and the Lord 
will assuredly bless our efforts. If men, with the clear light of 
the New Jerusalem Church shining into their understandings, 
continue to drink intoxicating drinks, if these escape drunkenness 
it will be as by the " skin of their teeth!" We know very well that 
they cannot fail to be singed by this "liquid fire," which we have 
seen has its origin from hell. May the Lord protect our brethren 
of the Academy ; but we think He will require a little of their help 
— cooperation — before He can do this, without interfering with 
their freedom, and that He never does. 

Now, gentlemen of the Academy, you may as well give 
up your attempt to justify the use of fermented wines, pro- 
duced by the action of leaven on the pure juice of the grape, 



156 COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG AND 

aiid of whisky. It is impossible for you to sustain your views 
by any legitimate argument, for the truth is not on your side. 
We have seen into what contradictions and absurdities you 
rush the moment you make the attempt. The Word of the 
Lord, sustained and illustrated by the testimony of a large num- 
ber of ancient writers, who wrote during the prophetical and 
apostolic ages, shows conclusively that there were two kinds of 
wine, one good and the other bad, in regular use. 

President Nott says : "That the wine declared by the master of 
the feast to be * good wine,' was good wine — in the sense that 
Pliny, Columella, or Theophrastus would have used the term 
*good,' when applied to wine ; good, because nutritious and un- 
intoxicating ; and of which the guests even at such an hour 
might drink freely and without apprehension, because it was 
wine which, though it would refresh and cheer, it would not 
intoxicate.'* 

."Is it reasonable," sajrs a recent writer, "that the inspired 
penman employs the same kind of wine both as a symbol of 
wrath and mercy ? Is there anything else of which this is true ? 
'Bread' is used as a symbol of mercy, and so is *milk' and 'oil.' 
Are they ever employed as symbols of wrath ? Never. Neither 
is the unfermented fruit of the vine used as a symbol of wrath. 
It is the changed^ innutritious^ alcoholic^ dangerous wine tliat is 
an appropriate S5mibol of divine wrath. This view alone renders 
the Bible consistent, and in harmony with science and experi- 
ence." 

Dr. Lees says : "That somebody consumed these innocent, 
vinous preparations is certain. Is it probable that the prophets 
and saints were the sole persons who refused to do so ? Is it 
likely that while moral pagans preferred good wines, the prophets 
and religious Jews invariably selected the drugged and intoxicat- 
ing? But the associated element of Daniel's abstinence will 
refute the whole principle of the argument." 

As New Churchmen what can you, gentlemen of the Academy, 
do toward sustaining your views, with the philosophy of the 
Church, the science of correspondences, and the testimony of 



INTERPRETATIONS BY THE ACADEMY. 157 

Swedenborg so clearly against you ? We are told by Sweden- 
borg that all substances which hurt and kill men originate, not 
from the Lord, but from helL Above all other substances, we 
know that fermented and alcoholic drinks do this. 

A curious fact, it is said, has been*noted by Professor Van 
Tieghem. The cells in the root of an apple-tree underwent alco- 
holic fermentation when the soil was very damp, but he tells us 
it made even the tree look sick. While the effects of alcohol on 
the body and mind are strictly analogous, as we have seen, to 
the effects of falses from evil on the soul, in every respect, and 
with Swedenborg's comparison of such wine and strong drinks as 
cause drunkenness, not only to falses, but to the worst kind of 
falses — ^to falses from evil — ^with his express declaration that whisky 
was so pernicious a drink, and that the immoderate use of spiritous 
liquors would be the downfall of the Swedish people, and 
with the testimony of the ablest medical writers 'of all ages against 
you, how can you expect to sustain your views? The great 
trouble .with you is that you are not masters of this subject. It 
is perfectly clear that, holding on to the drinking usages, cus- 
toms, and traditions of the fallen state of the first Christian 
Church, you had not carefully examined this subject in the 
light of this new day, before attempting to stay the progress 
of the most needed and the greatest reform movement of the age. 
But truth is mighty and will prevail, and you will have to with- 
draw from your dogmatic assumptions upon this subject or you 
will cease to have a following. The Church of the New Jerusa- 
lem is not to be a whisky-drinking, wine-bibbing, and beer- 
guzzling Church. Whisky, fermented wine, and beer perform no 
use in the healthy human body which cannot be much better per- 
formed by legitimate food and drink; and all true philosophy 
teaches us that use, and not our perverted appetites, should 
govern our eating and drinking that we may have a healthy mind 
in a healthy body. The Lord has so ordered that the man who 
lives on the plainest and most healthy food actually enjoys the most 
in eating and drinking ; for stimiikting and poisonous articles soon 
blunt the taste for healthy food, and do not themselves satisfy. 



IS8 COMPARISONS OF SWEDENBORG. 

We will simply intimate to you, gentlemen of the Academy, that 
there is a slight difference between the excitement and delight 
which follow the use of healthy articles of food and drink, and 
the excitement and dejjght which follow the use of intoxicating 
drinks, and that difference is to the body and mind what the 
difference between heaven and hell is to the soul. The delights 
which flow from the use of the former are natural and orderly, 
and correspond to heavenly delights ; whereas, we know very 
well, by every day's observation, that the delights which flow 
from the latter are unnatural and disorderly, and correspond to 
infernal delights. 

"As to whisky," said the late Rev. Dr. Thomas Guthrie, of 
Edinburgh, " whisky is good in its own place. There is nothing 
like whisky in this world for preserving a man when he is dead. 
But it is one of the worst things in this world for preserving a 
man when he is living. If you want to keep a dead man, put 
him into whisky. If you want to kill a living man, put the whisky 
into him." 

DUTY TO THE RECLAIMED. 

Wine : Ecetestastual. — Dr. Kerr, of England, in a recent lecture, said he 
stood on sure ground, for lie was on his own domain of medicine. As a 
physician of some experience in the treatment of habitual drunkenness, he 
knew that it was not safe for the dipsomaniac to taste intoxicating drink in 
any circumstances, while in a state of consciousness; and, therefore, he (the 
lecturer). Churchman though he was, even when a drinker himself, never 
allowed a reformed drunkard under his care to go near a commimion table 
where intoxicating drink was presented. He was supported in this line of 
treatment by Dr. A. Fergus, cf the General Medical Council, and recently 
President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, by Surgeon-General 
Francis, and by other experts in the higher ranks of the medical profession. 
A typical instance of the relapse of a reformed inebriate through fermented 
wine at the Sacrement was adduced, the authority for the facts being at the 
disposal of the Archbishop of Canterbury. 

The lecturer also said he would be disloyal to truth if he did not honestly 
testify to the serious risk of communion in an intoxicant to the reformed ine- 
briate, and to the yet unfallen subject of the hereditary drink crave. At 
present what was the fact? Some reformed drunkards had been expelled 
from the Church altogether ; some had deprived themselves of the privilege of 
communion, and some, while worshipping regularly at an Established Church, 
communicated at some Nonconformist place of worship where unfermented 
wine was used. He implored the clergy, as a mere matter of justice and of 
right, to render the m,ost sacred rite of their venerable Church safe for the 
weakest of the victims snatched from the fatal embrace of drink, 



CHAPTER XI. 

A NEW VIEW. 

The writer has just received the following communication on 
the wine question, from a highly esteemed correspondent, and 
cheerfully places it before his readers : 

" Leaven corresponds to and represents the false of evil. 
Spiritual leaven did not exist in the Most Ancient Church, but 
was introduced when that Church fell into evils of life, and 
framed doctrines by which it could justify its bad conduct. 

'*This leaven has 'been transmitted from parents to children 
through a long series,' until the disposition to love the 'false of 
evil ' has become the ruling power of man's nature. 

"The Lord, in order to provide against the total destruction of 
the human race, through leaven, separated the will from the 
understanding, and put into the understanding a new will, which 
is called 'the will of truth.' 

"Into this new will riiay be introduced divine doctrine and 
divine life, which, when introduced, form a heavenly city in an 
enemy's country. This city is life introduced into man, and 
leaven is death from hell. The enemies are represented by 
leaven, the ferment from which is the beginning of a deadly 
strife. It is a struggle between life and death. The Lord sus- 
tains and defends the life. For this kind of temptation is not ' 
admitted into, man until ' truths in his understanding are gathered 
into bundles,' and arranged into order for defence. Then come 
the struggle and the victory. But victory does not restore man 
to the condition of the men of the Most Ancient Church. This is 
seen in the fact that the heavens formed from the Most Ancient 
Church are the inmost heaven; and that the heavens formed' 
since are more and more external and less and less pure. There- 



l6o A NEW VIEW. 

fore, it cannot be said that one who has so far fallen from God as 
to love the false of evil better than the truth of good, can be 
restored by any process, so as to become as pure and perfect 
as one who has never fallen. 

". So of the grape ; as long as its skin is whole, it cannot fer- 
ment. Nor can grape juice ferment until the virus — leaven — is 
introduced into it. From that moment the work of contamina- 
tion begins ; the juice before was pure and perfect, but it is now 
impure and imperfect. 

"The fermenting process is a method of saving what can besaved 
after a poisonous substance has been introduced into a pure sub- 
stance. 

"The same is true of the salvation of man by combats. And 
although he may be saved 'through great tribulation,' still he is a 
dwarf in purity, compared with what he would have been had he 
never fallen from the divine image and likeness. 

"But it does not follow that divine truth, in his mind, after 
having been purified from the false of evil, is more pure and 
perfect than it was before that false principle was mixed with it. 

" It is hard to comprehend a state of mind which can attribute 
to the Lord inability or want of disposition to create pure things ; 
and it is still harder to see how pure products from the Divine 
Hand, such as the grape, wheat, com, etc., should be more pure 
after the introduction of a filthy substance into it." 

Now, from the above presentation of this subject, it would ap- 
pear that fermented wine is the quality of wine to be used at this 
day in the present state of man, even in the Holy Supper, and if 
the above writer's premises were all sound, this would be true. 
But if he had examined this subject a little more carefully, he 
would have found unanswerable objections to some of his views, 
as applied to natural wine. 

First : He admits very correctly that the grape, and the juice 
of the grape, are pure until ferment enters to pollute these 
organized products of the vine ; in other words, he admits that 
the grape has never fallen ; in this respect the juice of the grape 



A NEW VIEW. l6l 

differs radically from the present condition of man, and holds a 
relation to man before the fall. 

Second : Being pure, like the man of the Most Ancient Churcji, 
and never like man having been endowed with rationality and 
freedom, there has been no change in the grape corresponding 
to the separation of the will from the understanding in man ; 
consequently, the Lord has made no provision for its restoration 
or regeneration when it becomes polluted by natural leaven, 
which corresponds to spiritual leaven ; therefore it can no more 
be restored by leaven-, than the man of the Most Ancient Church 
could have been by spiritual leaven, after he had commenced 
falling from his original purity, and before the separation of the 
will from the understanding. Before the separation of the will 
from the understanding, mankind, after they had commenced 
falling, could only be prevented from descending to greater 
depths of evil by punishments and external restraints ; and it is 
only by corresponding natural measures that wine, after ferment- 
ation has commenced, can be saved from total decay or destruc- 
tion, namely, by sulphurization, boiling, bottling, etc. 

Third : It will be seen, then, that it is utterly impossible to 
harmonize the two processes, and to show that natural leavenings 
correspond to spiritual leavenings. When ferment has entered the 
wine, and commenced its destructive work, the wine can no more 
be restored to its original purity by fermentation, as we have, 
just intimated, than the man of the Most Ancient Church, after 
he had commenced falling, could have been restored by tempta- 
tions and spiritual combats against falses. 

Fourth : We know that during fermentation, that which corres- 
ponds to good and truth does not overcome the leaven, and cast 
it down and to the sides ; but that the leaven overcomes, de- 
stroys, casts down and up organic substances which correspond to 
spiritual good and truth j and changes the sweet, which corres- 
ponds to spiritual delights, into alcohol, which gives rise to infer- 
nal delights ; as we so well know by its effects on man when he 
drinks it ; consequently, we know, both from its origin and effects, 
that it corresponds to infernal delights. 



162 -^-■-^^^^^:.'- 



A NEW VIEW. 



Fifth ; Now we are taught by our doctrines that in the regener- 
ation of man at this day, exactly the opposite takes place, namely, 
truth and good overcome the false and evil. So it will be seen 
that while the spiritual combats during regeneration may be com- 
pared to natural fermentation, and the clearness and spiritual 
purity after regeneration, may be compared to the clearness 
and purity of Uquids after fermentation, in the very nature of the 
case it is impossible that there should be any real correspondence, 
either between the natural and spiritual processes under consid- 
eration, or the results which flow therefrom. 

But, says the above correspondent, in a subsequent communi- 
cation, in reply to the strictures on his first : " The correspond- 
ence of sweet — spiritual delight — and the correspondence of 
alcohol — infernal delight — is superb. Still, I think, in the end, that 
you will be obliged to acknowledge the fact that there is some 
good use in fermented wine (this wine contains only from five to 
ten per centum of alcohol) and in vinegar. In this you may 
say that wine that has been fermented may be adapted to a fallen 
Church, composed of fallen men." 

Exacdy so. This is precisely what the writer claimed in his 
tract, and what is reiterated in an extract from the same in this 
work. When men engrossed in the love of spiritual dominion, 
and in the love of self, money, and sensual gratifications, searched 
the Word of the Lord, and therefrom framed doctrines which 
were in harmony with their perverted affections, such false 
doctrines were not falses from ignorance, but they were falses from 
evil ; and all of the delights of such men flowed from their evils 
and the falses therefrom. It was therefore utterly impossible that 
plain, unfermented wine, which simply gratified the orderly wants 
of the body, giving true delight, health, and strength thereto, 
should satisfy men thus perverted. That which corresponds to 
good and truth must be destroyed, and the sugar which corres- 
ponds to spiritual delights must be perverted into alcohol, by 
leaven and human manipulation, before the wine could corres- 
pond to their spiritual state ; and then it becomes strictly appro- 
priate. 



UNIVERSITY 

VINEGAR. ^ ^ i' "^ 163 

But in the doctrines for the Church of the New Jerusalem, the 
Lord again calls on all men to repent, and to put away their 
false doctrines from their understandings, and evils from their 
lives, by a constant effort to keep the divine commandments, 
not in their own strength, but in the strength which the Lord 
ever gives to those who ask of Him in their daily lives^ 
not in words only, but also in deeds. What place has fermented 
wine, having its origin from hell, and corresponding clearly to 
falses from evils as we have seen, in the true Church of the 
Lord ? It being the natural emblem of the false, which is infer- 
nal ; can men of this New Age, who are striving to live the life of 
the Church, deliberately, and from choice, use such a perverted 
fluid as a beverage, and not thereby be injured, both physically 
and spiritually ? 

The writer would remind the above correspondent that from 
five to ten per centum of alcohol in wine has been sufficient 
to cause drunkenness in all ages, and among all races of men 
who have used fermented wine ; as history clearly teaches, and 
present observation abundantly demonstrates. 

VINEa^R. 

Vinegar, like alcohol, is a product resulting from the decom- 
position of an organized substance — sugar. In a concentrated 
form it is a corrosive poison ; but wheti diluted, as it ordinarily is 
when used, and only moderately taken ; then, compared with 
fermented wine and beer, it is comparatively harmless ; but if 
used as freely as the latter fluids are, while it would never cause 
drunkenness, it would, unquestionably, be very injurious to the 
health of the body ; but we shall see from its correspondence, 
that it cannot be as injurious to man, spiritually, as fermented 
wine or beer. 

"Vinegar signifies truth mixed with falses." (A. E. 386.) 
"Giving the Lord vinegar mixed with gall (Matt, xxvii. 34) 
signifies the quality of divine truth from the Word, such as was 
with the Jewish nation, namely, that it was comrriixed with the 
false of evil, and thereby altogether falsified and adulterated, 



1 64 VINEGAR. 

wherefore He would not drink it" (A. E. 519.) " Gall signifies 
the same as wormwood, or infernal falsity." (A. E. 376.) So 
it will be seen that vinegar alone, simply diluted with water [sig- 
nifying truth], signifies truths mixed with falses. 

Diluted vinegar, like alcohol, will preserve animal and vegetable 
substances, although not so perfectly ; but it is used, as is well 
known, for this purpose. 

The appetite for acids is unquestionably a natural appetite ; and 
when suitable acids are used temperately they supply a want, and 
are useful ; but vinegar, being the product of decomposition, as 
we would expect, very imperfectly, if at all, supplies this want. 
It will not, like lemon or lime juice, prevent the scurvy where 
persons are for lon^ periods deprived of vegetable food and 
fresh meats, as on board ships, and during the long winters of a 
northern clime. 

Wherever it is possible, it is certain that the juice of acid fruits, 
such as lemons, limes, and currants, should be substituted for 
vinegar. One who has never tried it cannot realize the superi- 
ority of lemon juice over vinegar, when used on salads, greens, 
meats and fish. We all know how superior it is, in preparing 
acid drinks, to vinegar. Of course, we cannot preserve vegetable 
and animal substances with such living or oi^anized acids, as we 
can with vinegar ; but if, after having preserved them in vinegar, 
we were to soak them in water, so as to remove the vinegar, and 
then apply lemon juice as we use them, it would be an improve- 
ment. 

The use of vinegar should imdoubtedly be discouraged, by re- 
commending the use of vegetable acids in its stead, rather than 
encouraged ; but when the use of vinegar is compared with the 
use of fermented wine, beer, or cider, it is comparatively harm- 
less — or, as much so as the reception of truth mixed with falses 
into the memory and understanding is, when compared with falses 
which are received and cherished by an evil love or perverted 
affection — consequently, vinegar rarely develops an unnatural ap- 
petite which cannot be satisfied with wholesome vegetable acids. 



CHAPTER XII. 

COMMUNION WINE AND ITS PREPARATION AND PRESERVATION. 

When the wine question is viewed in the Ught of the New 
Jerusalem Church, and carefully examined, there would seem to 
be no question as to the land of wine which should be used at 
the Holy Supper. 

The vine has a good signification, for it signifies "good and 
truth spiritual." (A, E. 403.) Vine or vineyard signifies the 
Church, where the Word is, by which the Lord is known, conse- 
quently, the Christian Church. (A. R. 650). Grapes have a 
good signification, for they signify the goods of charity, which 
are the goods of life. (A. E. 375.) Grapes and clusters 
signify works of charity, because they are the fruits of the vine 
and the vineyard, and by fruits in the Word are signified good 
works* (A. R. 649.) The blood of the grape, or the juice 
which flows, when the skin is punctured or burst, with little or no 
pressure but the weight of the cluster, and which is the sweetest 
portion of the grape, has the highest signification. " The blood 
of the grape signifies spiritual-celestial good, which is the name 
given to the divine in heaven proceeding from the Lord ; wine 
is called the blood of grapes, since each signifies holy truth pro- 
ceeding from the Lord; wine, however, is predicated of the 
spiritual, and blood of the celestial ; and this being the case 
wine was enjoined in the Holy Supper.** (A. C. 5117.) "By 
the blood of the grape is also signified truth from spiritual good, 
the same as by wine in Deut. xxxii. 14.** (A. E. 918.) 

That unfermented wine, which is produced by crushing and 
pressing the grapes, also has a good signification is beyond 
question. "'Thus saith Jehovah, As the new win^ is found in 
the cluster; and He saith, spoil it not, because a blessing is in 
it ' (Isaiah Ixv. 8) ; the new wine in the cluster denotes truth 

(106) 



1 66 • COMMUNION WINE. 

from good in the natural principle." (A. C. 5117.) This new 
wine found in the cluster is not fermented wine, for alcohol is 
not found in a cluster of grapes. *' Whereas all truth is from 
good, as all wine is from grapes, therefore by wine in the Word 
is signified truth from good." (A. E. 918.) If all wine is from 
grapes, as Swedenborg has assured us, and the grapes do not con- 
tain any alcohol, how can we claim that fermented wine which is 
full of alcohol is the fruit of the vine, or that it has a good significa- 
tion ; especially when we know, as we do, that the alcohol is not 
even the product of the vine, but that it is produced by the 
actual destruction of the gluten and sugar, both good and useful 
ingredients of the wine, by ferment or leaven, which signifies 
"the false of evil," and "the evil and the false," which, Sweden- 
borg tells us, " should not be mixed with things good and true ?*' 
And yet in the case of fermented wine, by the ingenuity of man 
in providing vessels, keeping it at a proper temperature, and with 
the necessary exposure to the air and no more, this substance — 
leaven — has been mixed with the new wine, and has disorganized 
and destroyed the vegetable compounds which the Lord had so 
carefully organized in the grape for the sustenance of man, until, 
in the end, there is scarcely a trace of some of the most 
important and useful of the natural ingredients of the wine 
left; and until by the destructive action of the leaven there 
has been substituted for the gluten, sugar, and other organic 
ingredients of the wine, the most to be dreaded, and which has 
proved to the human race the most deadly poison ever pro- 
duced by man, it having destroyed more human beings than all 
other poisons put together. Swedenborg tells us, as we have 
already quoted in a previous chapter, that all substances which 
hurt and kill men have their origin from hell. Thus, then, there 
can be no question as to the origin of the alcohol in fermented 
wine. In fact, as we have elsewhere shown, Swedenborg in his 
work, "Apocal)^se Explained" (No. 1035), compares "falsesfrom 
evil," which we know are from hell, to such wine as will induce . 
drunkenness, and we know that the wine which will induce this 
fearful state, in which reason and self-control are overthrown, is 



COMMUNION WINE. • 167 

never unfermented wine, but that it is always fermented wine, 
and history shows that it has induced drunkenness in all ages of 
the world, and for countless ages before distilled liquors were 
known. Is there — can there be — any excuse for the use of an 
. intoxicating wine as communion wine in the sacrament of the 
Holy Supper, gentle reader? But do not be over hasty to 
condemn all wine. Please bear in mind that the vine, the 
grape, the blood of the grape, all have a good signification, 
unquestionably good, when unpolluted by fermentation. The 
same is true of must, for Swedenborg tells us that "must signifies 
the same as wine, namely, truth derived from the good of charity 
and love." (A. E. 695.) 

Webster defines must [Latirij museum'] as "wine pressed from 
the grape, but not fermented^ Worcester defines it, "the sweet 
or unfermented juice of the grape : new wine." So that both 
authorities say that the unfermented juice of the grape is wine. 
Must has the same signification, because it is new wine. It is. 
only when leaven or ferment commences its fearful work of dis- 
organization, destruction, and pollution, in the new wine or must, 
that it ever has a bad signification ; but after it has been so mixed 
with leaven and polluted by it, it is perfectly clear that it never 
has a good signification, for the wine then becomes a perverted and 
poisonous fluid as we should naturally expect. Swedenborg says ; 
" Leaven signifies the evil and the false, whereby things celestial 
and spiritual are rendered impure and profane." (A. C. 2342.) 

And yet it is wine, the noble fruit of the vine, corresponding 
to things spiritual and celestial, which has been rendered by the 
action of leaven impure, and the natural symbol of spiritual 
impurity and profanity, which is to-day, with only here and there 
an exception, being used as communion wine in the organized 
societies of the New Jerusalem Church in this country, and of 
which men and women, who clearly see the truth, are compelled 
to partake or stand aloof from the most holy ordinance- Of this 
wine so generally used, one of the editors of the New Jerusalem 
Magazine says : " If one has acquired a depraved taste for it, it 
may be well for him to deprive himself of it altogether, not 



168 CX)MMUNION WINE. 

excepting its use at the Holy Supper.'* Do men acquire a de- 
praved taste for healthy articles — as for bread and fruit ? 

Is it not sad that through the perversion of an ordinance, a 
teacher in the New Church should feel it to be his duty to 
suggest to some who desire to partake of the Holy Supper, the 
expediency of remaining away from the heavenly feast, of which 
the Lord commanded all to partake ? And this, not because of 
unfitness in themselves, but lest the Supper may lead them into 
temptation ; and sadder still, that he should not see from the 
teaching of the Word, and from the philosophy of the New 
Church, and the science of correspondences, as contained in the 
Writings of Swedenborg, that the Lord never placed this tempta- 
tion before any ; and that it is impossible that He could do so in 
any ordinance which He instituted for the benefit of His people, 
and the use of* which He makes obligatory upon them ? As the 
Holy Supper came to us from the Lord, there was nothing about 
it to incite or minister to a depraved taste. 

That men of the first Christian Church, with simply the 
knowledge of the literal sense of the Sacred Scriptures, should 
advocate and use fermented wine is riot surprising, but that a 
New Churchman, with the knowledge which he can readily 
obtain from the Writings of Swedenborg of the spiritual sense of 
the Sacred Scriptures, and of causes, and the correspondence which 
exist between all natural and spiritual things, habits, and effects, 
and the express teaching of Swedenborg upon this subject, to 
which we have referred in this work, can for a moment attempt to 
justify the use of fermented wine as communion wine, is beyond 
the comprehension of the writer, upon any other supposition 
than that he has not carefully examined this subject; and to 
bring this question fairly before his brethren, and to ask their 
most serious consideration of it, is the object of this chapter. 

Says the Rev. Dr. Nott : " Can the same thing in the same 
state be good and bad ; a symbol of wrath, and a symbol of mercy ; 
a thing to be sought after, and a thing to be avoided ? Certainly 
not. And is the Bible, then, inconsistent with itself ! No, 
certainly." 



COMMUNION WINE. 169 

"Here, then," says Dr. Rich, "is the rational and righteous 
basis for tlie discriminating statutes of God. The beverage that 
was characterized by power to produce a sensible stimulation, 
a nervous excitement, was forbidden ; the beverage that satisfied 
a natural appetite, and afforded strength without stimulation wai 
commended." 

Dr. Rich's special conclusion is thus stated: "There is no 
threatening, or prohibition, or visitation of judgment, as I can 
remember, based on the discrimination between an excessive and 
a limited or temperate use (as it is called) of intoxicants." 

Does not the poor, reformed inebriate who is struggling to shun 
this evil, need the aid to be derived from partaking of the wine 
at tlie Holy Supper as much as any one ? We ask the thought- 
ful reader, if the wine of which it is thus dangeroms to even take 
a single swallow, can by any possibility be the same kind of wine 
of which our Lord and Master said "drink ye all of it"? 

"I think," says the Rev. Joseph Cook, "It is beyond dispute 
among the scholars of the first rank that at the Passover the wine 
used was non-intoxicating, and that our Lord instituted the Holy 
Supper with such wine." {Encyc, Brit, 8th ed., art. "Pass- 
Over".) 

In his former tract, the writer purposely avoided a full con- 
sideration of this subject, for he felt that the impropriety of using 
an intoxicating wine in the most Holy Supper was so manifest 
that it was unnecessary to say more than to barely allude to 
the subject, and to call the attention of New Churchmen to it. 
But some rather rough experience, and further consideration of 
the subject has satisfied him that he was mistaken as to the 
necessity and too hopeful in his expectations \ and to-day he 
feels fully satisfied that nothing is more necessary or desirable* for 
the welfare of the Church, than that this subject should be dis- 
cussed fully and fairly. So long as intoxicating wine is used for 
sacramental purposes, drunkenness will never cease in the Church, 
for many of its members, and the young people who are looking 
toward the Church, will reason that "if it is siutable for such a 



X70 COMMUNION WINE. 

purpose, it cannot be bad in itself; and it will not harm me to 
drink a little — 'temperately/ of course." Among those who 
begin to drink this seductive fluid, a goodly number will inevit- 
ably become drunkards ; and many more will richly deserve the 
name, and die from the effects of drinking, whose fall may not 
be so complete and open as to cause them to be generally recog- 
nized as drunkards. All who drink intoxicating drinks, as we 
have seen, will be injured thereby, in mind and body, to a greater 
or less extent ; for they are almost sure to become "moody in 
mind and diseased in body, sooner or later," however "tempe- 
rately " they may use such beverages. 

"When a reformed drunkard," says the Rev. Joseph Cook, 
" sits down in a pew, and finds his neighboring Church member a 
moderate drinker, and his pastor holding up the Bible in one 
hand, and the glass of moderate drinking in the other, the strug- 
gling, converted inebriate has not come into a place of safety. 
The Church is not a fold that is securing him from the wolves; 
it is not a place where he can repose." 

Willard Parker, M.D., of New York, asks, in his address at the 
American Association for the Cure of Inebriates, "What is alco- 
hol? The answer is — a poison. It is so regarded by the best 
writers and teachers on toxicology. I refer to Orfila, Christison, 
and the like, who class it with arsenic, corrosive sublimate, and 
prussic acid. Like these poisons, when introduced into the sys- 
tem, it is capable of destroying life without acting mechanically. 
Introduced into the system, it induces a general disease, as well 
marked as intermittent fever, smallpox, or lead poison." 

In a letter to the Rev. Dr. Patton, he says : " The alcohol is 
the one evil genius, whether in wine, or ale, or whisky, and is 
killing the race of men. Stay the ravages of this one poison, 
alcohol, that king of poisons, the mightiest weapon of the devil, 
and the millennium will soon dawn." 

No higher, nor more respected medical authority, in this 
country can be given than Dr. Willard Parker, and his language, 
it will be seen, as to the effects of drinking intoxicating drinks on 
the American people, is almost precisely the same as that used 



COMMUNION WINE. 17X 

more than a century ago by Swedenborg, as to the eifects on 
the Swedish people of using such drinks. In reply to our 
selections from the writmgs of Dr. Parker, Dr. Richardson, the 
section on medicine in the International Medical Congress held 
in Philadelphia in 1876, and of Emanuel Swedenborg, as to the 
effect of alcoholic drinks on men, the ** Academy of the New 
Church " in its Words for the New Church, says : 

** Of one thing we feel assured, that the class of selections from which 
Dr. Ellis has seen fit to choose cannot be genuine, because they dispute 
revealed truth." 

Swedenborg, then, in the estimation of our brethren of the 
Academy, disputed revealed truth when he declared that it would 
be more desirable for his country's welfare and morality, that the 
consumption of whisky should be done away with altogether 
"than all the income which could be realized from so pernicious 
a drink." The writer does not think the Academy manifests 
either much modesty or wisdom when it attempts, as it does, 
to offset the testimony of the highest medical authorities in the 
world, and of Emanuel Swedenborg, by the views of compara- 
tively obscure writers in our periodicals. 

THE WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN THE ORIGINAL 
INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 

" The great Bible student of this and all ages," says the Rev. Dr. 
G. W. Samson, "was Jerome [bom a.d. 332]. As a representa- 
tive of the early Church at Rome, yet spending half his life in the 
land of Jesus and of the first Apostles, his translation of the Greek 
New Testament into Latin became the foundation of the Latin 
Vulgate ; while his voluminous commentaries and epistles are an 
invaluable treasure in every department of Biblical science. On 
Hoseaii. 9, he defines tirosh as *the fruit of the vintage'; his 
comment corresponding with his translation abready noted. In 
commenting on Amos ix. 14, he compares the 'blood of Christ' 
to the 'red must' flowing into the wine-vat. Upon Matt. ix. 17, 
he says that new skins \uires\ must be used for wine that is to 
be preserved as must, because the remains of former ferment 



172 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

attaches to the old skins ; and he regards this to be the essential 
point in Christ's comparison ; that the soul \_anima'] in which 
His truth will be safely deposited must be entirely renovated and 
freed from all remains of former corruption, so as to be * polluted 
with no contagion of former vice.* In commenting (Matt. xxvi. 
26-29 ) on Christ's choice of language : ' I will not drink hence- 
forth of this fruit of the vine,' he takes for granted, as under- 
stood by all, that must is referred to ; and he cites as illustrative 
of the wine at the Supper, the fresh grape juice of Gen. xl. 11, 
and the * noble vine' of Jer. ii. 21, as indicating the character of 
the viney as well as of its product, which is referred to in Christ's 
words, 'I am the vine.' On Gal. v. 16-21, among the 'lusts of 
the flesh,' Jerome mentions wine-drinking, and urges the duty of 
abstinence from wines. He says : ' In wine is excess; as taught 
in Eph. v. 18, youth should flee wine as they would poison.' 
Alluding to the plea that Christ used wine at the Supper, and 
that St. Paul recommended the use of wine to Timothy, Jerome 
says : ' Elsewhere, we were made acquainted with both the wine 
to be consecrated into the blood of Christ and the wine ordered 
to Timothy that he should drink it.' " 

Rev. Dr. Samson, in a recent work, in which he replies to the 
writers who have criticised his former work already noticed, 
on the " Divine Law of Wines," makes the following statement : 

"The wine made by Christ at the wedding has this succession 
of testimonials in confirmation : first, the fact that conforming 
Jews, of whom Jesus through His life was one, from time imme- 
morial have used unfermented wine at weddings ; second, the 
best, most costly and always first-used wine, in ancient and 
modem banquets, has been the lightest, and among the Romans 
this was unfermented; third, Cyril, bishop of the Church in 
Jerusalem about a. d. 380, expressly declares this, while Geikie, 
in his now popular "Life of Christ," returns to the early Christian 
view of the nature of the miracle. As to the charge against 
Christ that he was a 'wine-bibber,' all Christians regard it as 
much a calumny as that He was a 'glutton' and a 'friend' of 
abandoned women. That the 'fiiiit of the vine' used at the 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 1 73 

Supper was unfermented, is confirmed by these testimonies : 
first, the natural meaning of the terms ' firuit of the vine ' : second, 
the immemorial custom of conscientious Jews at their Passover, 
which * cup * was the same used by Christ at the institution of the 
Supper; third, the direct statement of Clement, a.d. 200, and of 
Jerome, a.d. 400. That the gleukos was unintoxicating Cyril 
declared, a.d. 380, while writers of the views of Horace Bum- 
stead now admit this ; and that gleukos was included under oinos 
lexicographers of every age and land agree. As to the view of 
Paul's advice to Timothy, the accordant statements of Eusebius, 
A.D. 320, of Athanasius, a.d. 325, of Cyril, a. d. 380, and of 
Jerome, a.d. 400, that Paul commended abstinence in Timothy 
(i Tim. v. 23), as he had before enjoined it on the Church of 
which he was pastor (Eph. v. 18), is in accordance with all 
ancient and modem legislation as to wines. As to the quality of 
the wines commended by Paul, Roman writers and their French 
annotators show that must is their basis, if not their only ingre- 
dient ; for it is not the alcohol, but the nourishing ingredients 
of wines, that constitute their utility in chronic indigestion; 
while strong alcoholic wines were commended by the Greek and 
Roman physicians for acute and painful diseases, such as strangu- 
ary and dysentery.'* 

"All," says the Rev. A. S. Wells, "that relates to this subject 
(viz., the institution of the Lord's Supper), in the New Testament, 
may be found in Matt. xxvi. 17-29 ; Mark xiv. 12-26 ; Luke xxii, 
7-20, and I Cor. xi. 23-29." 

" Take your Bible and carefully read and consider these words. 
They contain the historical account and tlie express directions 
and commands of Jesus Christ on this subject, and all that He or 
His Apostles have said or written upon it, except some allusions 
to this ordinance which are found in i Cor. v. (>-Zj and x. 16-21. 
This matter is contained within a small compass, and can, there- 
fore, be easily comprehended. From these passages we see : 
First : That the Lord's supper was appointed at the close of the 
Passover feast, and before our Saviour and His disciples had 
arisen from the table. Matthew says : ^And as they were eating 



174 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

(/. e,, the Passover), He took the cup and gave thanks, and gave 
it to them, saying. Drink ye all of it,* Second : Notice also, 
that our Saviour used the same elements of bread arid wine which 
they had used in the feast of the Passover. No new cup was 
brought in at the time He instituted the memorial of His death. 
He took the Passover cup, and it was of the wine which it con- 
tained that He expressly commanded His disciples; saying, 
* Drink ye all of it: 

" Now we have abundant evidence that the wine of the Passover 
was unfermented. 

" First : This is seen in the name which our Saviour gave to the 
contents of the Passover cup. Neither He nor His Apostles, in 
speaking of this element in the sacramental emblems, call it wine 
at all. Our Saviour foresaw how, in after ages, the term wine 
would generally be understood to mean that which was fermented 
and intoxicating, and, therefore, wholly inappropriate as a symbol 
of His precious blood; and to guard the Church against this 
danger He employs a term which, in all ages and languages^ 
could not be misunderstood, and He calls that wine He would 
have us use in this ordinance 'the fruit of the vine.' This 
term truly describes the new, sweet, unfermented wine ^hicYi God 
Himself creates in a cluster, and which He pronounces a bless- 
ing (Isa. Ixv. 8), like the oil and the bread with which it is asso- 
ciated as an article of diet. This was, indeed, a good creature 
of God, and to be received with thanksgiving. But when God*s 
wine has been, by man's invention, subjected to a chemical pro- 
cess, and becomes fermented, it is no longer the fruit of the vine, 
but another substance altogether: it has been changed in its 
essential principles, and is now a poisonous compound of alcohol 
and carbonic acid. Its sugar and gluten which were in the fruit 
of the vine, both of which are nutritious and help to build up and 
repair the waste of our bodies, are now, by fermentation, con- 
verted into alcoholic poison and other substances, all of which 
are almost, if not utterly, destitute of any nourishing qualities 
whatever. 



' THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 1 75 

''Again : we know that the Passover wine was the new, sweet, 
and unfermented wine, not only by the name our Saviour gave it 
as the fruit of the vine, but 

"Second : By the express law of the Passover, excluding all 
leaven from the elements used at that feast. Read carefully the 
following passages, and you will see the proof is full and 
unanswerable ; Ex. xii. 15-20 ; xiii. 6-7 ; xxxiv. 25 ; Lev. ii. 11 ; 
X. 12, and Amos iv. 5. Here you will notice that there is 
an utter prohibition of leaven and of all that has been leavened or 
fermented, not only from the Passover feast, but from everything 
offered in sacrifice to God. This included fermented wine as 
well as the fermented bread* If it is said that wine is not men- 
tioned in these passages, we reply, it was included in the prohibi- 
tion of the unleavened bread ; else there is no divine warrant 
for its use at all in the Passover ; but as our Saviour used it. His 
example settles its divine appointment. 

"In his commentary on John ii. lo, the Rev. Albert Barnes 
says : 'The wine of Judea was the pure juice of the grape, without 
any mixture of alcohol, and commonly weak and harmless. It 
was the common drink of the people, and did not tend to pro- 
duce intoxication.' " 

The Rev. Dr. Duffield says : "For the Jews, in observing the 
Passover — ^which feast he was celebrating when he instituted the 
sacrament of His Supper — ^were prohibited from the use of any- 
thing whatever, whether food or drink, that was fermented (Ex. 
xii. 15) ; and to this day they rigidly observe the original regula- 
tion." — Bible Rule of Temperance (p. 181.) 

The Rev. Dr. C. H. Fowler, says: "The sacrament of the 
Lord's Supper is rescued by the simple fact that this was the 
feast of the Passover which Jesus set apart as His memorial, and 
that the Jews ate nothing that had yeast or ferment in it at this 
feast. They were forbidden to offer anything that had leaven or 
yeast in it to the Lord. There is no indication that Jesus sent 
put and procured intoxicating wine, when He had a supply of 
unfermented wine. Jesus even called it ^the fruit of the vine,\ 
not the finiit of decomposition and fermentation. 



176 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

" God promised that His Holy One should not see corruption. 
God said to the sacrificing Jews : *Thou shalt not offer the blood 
of my sacrifice with leaven.' Jesus gave the wine as His blood 
of the new Testament. It is not reasonable that He sought out 
a forbidden element for the purpose of exposing His sacrament 
to perpetual criticism. It is enough that Jesus called it *the 
fruit of the vine.' " 

Dr. S. M. Isaacs, an eminent Jewish rabbi of this city, says : « 
" In the Holy Land they do not commonly use fermented wines. 
The best wines are preserved sweet and unfermented." In 
reference to their customs, at their religious festivals, he repeat- 
edly and emphatically says : "The Jews do not, in their feast for 
sacred purposes, including the marriage feast, ever use any kind 
of fermented drinks. In their oblations and libations, both 
private and public, they employ the fruit of the vine — ^that is, 
fresh grapes — unfermented grape j.uice, and raisins, as the symbol 
of benediction. Fermentation is to them always a symbol, of 
corruption, as in nature and science it is itself decay, rottenness." 
— Bible Wines, 

The Hon. P. J. Joachimsen, whose intelligence "as a judge, 
as well as the eminent culture and charities of his esteemed lady, 
are well known in New York," makes the following reply to a 
letter of inquiry from Dr. Samson : 

No. 336, East 69TH Street, February 15, 1 881. 
Reverend and Dear Sir, — In answer to your favor of yesterday's date, 
I repeat that the great majority of conforming Jews in this city use wine 
made from raisins at the Passover feast. Of course the raisins are fresh. 
Such raisin-wine is used in all conforming synagogues for the sanctification 
ofShabbat and holy days; £. ^., for Kiddush and also for services at cir- 
cumcisions and weddings. Some, but not many, people use imported wine 
— Italian, Hungarian, or German — which is certified as " Perach*' or" Kosher 
wine." 

I am, yours most truly, J. P. Joachimsen. 

The Rev. W. M. Thayer, in his work on " Communion Wine," 
says : '* The Saviour's language implies that He continued the prac- 
tice of using the unfermented juice of the grape. At the institu- 
tion of the Supper, he did not use the word ' wine ^ {pnios'Y^ 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 177 

the word in general use among the people ; but he employed a 
phrase which is translated ^ fruit of the vine* We have His 
language recorded tliree times (Matt. xxvi. 27-29; Mark xiv. 
23-25 ; Luke'xxii. 19, 20), and in each instance it is 'fruit of the 
vine J As if he would distinguish the wine which was used on 
that occasion from that which the people were taught not to 
'look upon/ and which would * bite like a serpent and sting like ^ 
an adder M As if he meant that no man should ever point to 
His example on that sacred occasion to defend the use of intoxi- 
cating wine on a secular occasion. It has the appearance of 
a studied, consistent, Christian arrangement to discard the 
'mocker.' If the Saviour used oinos at the Supper, it is singular, 
at least, that he avoided the name by which it was known, and 
called it 'fruit of the vine.* 

" We submit, too, that the grape itself, or the newly expressed 
juice, is *the fruit of the vine' in a truer sense than fermented 
wine can be. For all chemists say that fermentation destroys the 
nutritive element of grape juice, while the unfermented juice is 
highly nutritious. The latter is innocent and healthful, while the 
former is ' dangerous' and harmful to persons in health. 

" It is objected that Christ said : ' Verily I say unto you, I will 
no more drink of the fruit of the vine, until that day I drink it new 
in the kingdom of God' (Mark xiv. 25). And these words are 
supposed to imply the use of alcoholic wine. The remarks of 
Professor Moses Stuart upon this passage furnish a good reply : 

* Is there not a sanction here of drinking ordinary wine? Far from it. It 
Is beyond all reasonable doubt that orthodox Judaism has ever and always 
rejected alcoholic or fermented wine at sacred feasts. Even now, as I have 
abundantly satisfied myself by investigation, the Passover is celebrated with 
wine newly made from raisins, where unfermented wine cannot be had. 
This would seem to explain that difficult passage in Matt. xxvi. 29 : "I will 
not drink of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you 
in my Father's kingdom." "New" alludes to the wine then employed on 
that occasion. The meaning seems plainly to be this : ** I shall no more 
celebrate with you a holy communion service on earth; in heaven we shall 
meet again around our Father's table, and there we will keep a feast with 
wine appropriate to the occasion — that is, new wine." Of course, we are to 
• imderstand the language in a spiritual, and not in a literal, ftense. But the 



178 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

imagery is borrowed from the wine then before them. Scarcely a greater ■ 
mistake can be made than to rest the use of alcoholic wine at the sacra- 
mental table on the example of our Saviour and His disciples.' 

" It is not surprising, therefore," says the Rev. ' Dr. Samson, 
speaking of the early temperance investigators of the wine ques- 
tion, " that such a flood of light dawned on the earnest and labor- 
ious reformers who penetrated more or less into this history of 
facts. All the translators, Roman and Protestant, Italian, Spanish, 
French, German and English, saw in the tirosh of the Old Testar 
ment, the Grecian gieukos and the Roman mustum, Castell, 
with the whole range ofSyriac and Arabic translations, of the 
Rabbinic Targums and Tulmud, before him, not only rendered 
tirosh must, but he argued that the translation of the Hebrew 
cheleb (Num. xviii. 12) by aparche in the Greek, was intended 
to present the idea of Herodotiis (iii. 24), and of Xenophon 
(Hier. iv. 2), which prevailed alike among the early Ethiopians 
of Central Africa, and of primitive Asiatics ; their offerings were 
FRESH, that they might be untainted with decay. Language could: 
not have been constructed more definitely to represent the pro- 
.duct of the vine acceptable in religious offerings than that used 
by Moses when he added a prefix to the unfermented grape juice 
offered to the Lord ; requiring that it be 'the fresh of tirosh,^ It 
was natural that this expression, rendered in English by ^best of 
the wine,* should recall to Castell and Cocceius the nature of 'the 
best* wine made by Christ, and, therefore, drunk by Him; and 
that it should have prevented such m^n from introducing, from 
the spirit of 'custom,* any perversion of the requirements of 
Christ as to the Supper, imagining that * inebriating wines' should 
take the place of His own twice repeated description, ' the fruit 
of the vine.* When attained, unfermented wine at the Supper 
will certainly be the first appointed by Christ.**^ — Diving Law as 
to Wines, 

In concluding his essay on "Communion Wine,** the Rev. W; 
M. Thayer says : " We ask the reader to compare the evidence 
upon which we rest our view of the Temperance Cause with that 
on which the cause of liberty rests. Is the proof that the. 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 1 79 

Bible denounces American slavery more direct and explicit 
than the proof that it denounces American drinking customs? 
Does not the Bible support slavery as clearly as it does the use 
of inebriating beverages ? And more, do we not discard certain 
customs and habits as sinful on less evidence than we ask men 
to discard intoxicating wine ? Do we not accept many theolo- 
gical tenets as scriptural, on less evidence than we adduce for 
Total Abstinence Communion Wine ? Let reason and conscience 
answer. Especially let the Church be true. No virtue will rise 
higher in the world than it is in the Church. If there be a place, 
of safety on this subject, let the Church occupy it. ' Lead us not 
into temptation * is the prayer ; let God's people live as they 
pray. Tempt no man with the intoxicating cup, at any time, or 
in any place. Let the standard be as high at the Lord's table as 
it is at man's table. A vicious thing in a holy place is out of 
place. The Church is bound to set a pure and safe example on 
temperance as really as on religion. ^Abstain from all appear- 
ance of evil,^ hinds us not to drink beverages that may entice 
others to ruin. ' Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself^ sug- 
gests that it is not a loving act to set the dangerous example of 
drinking intoxicating liquors to our neighbor, or his children. 
* Do thyself no harm, ^ Abstinence is the only sure way to pre- 
vent harm to one's self. ' Watch and pray, that ye enter not intp 
temptation J There is no more emphatic way of disregarding 
this lesson, than by tampering with the intoxicating cup. So, 
also, the exhortations to ^ lay your bodies a living sacrifice on the 
altar of God,^ to ^crucify the lusts of the flesh,' and many others, 
are wholly inconsistent with defiling the body by using that which 
inflames the passions (Isa. xxii. 13), excites to violence (Prov. 
xxiii. 29), and overcomes and demoralizes many who drink it " 
(Isa. xxviii. i ; Prov. xx. i ; Isa. xxviii. 7). 

Professor Stuart says : " I cannot doubt that chamets, in its 
widest sense, was excluded from the Jewish Passover, when the 
Lord's Supper was first instituted ; for I am not able to find 
evidence to make me doubt that the custom among the Jews of 
excluding fermented wine, as well as fermented bread, is old^ 



l8o WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

than the Christian era. That this custom is very ancient ; that 
it is now almost universal ; and that it has been so for some time 
whereof the memory of. man runneth not to the contrary, I take 
to be facts that cannot fairly be* controverted." 

While the societies of the New Church, with but a very few 
worthy exceptions in this country, are using intoxicating wine, 
which Swedenborg compares to falses from evil, as communion 
wine, and our Associations and Convention have not a word to say 
against its use as a beverage ; and too many of our clergymen are 
justifying such use ; and some of them advocating the drinking of 
whisky even ; how stands the religious world around us upon this 
great practical question of life ? Many of the most celebrated 
scholars of the various Christian Churches, without a knowledge 
of the revelations which we enjoy, seeing the devastation and 
ruin which was being wrought upon their fellow-men, by the 
drinking of intoxicating drinks, and finding that their use was 
justified and encouraged by the use of fermented wine at the 
Holy Supper, have devoted years to a patient examination of 
this subject in the light of the Word of the Lord, ancient history, 
and modem science. 

Rev. Dr. Samson, speaking of the early labors of such men, 
says: 

" Among educators, such men as Professor Wayland of Brown 
University, and Professor Tayler Lewis, led the way to a new 
position. Dr. Wayland, eminently conscientious and practical as 
a teacher of Moral Science, when told by Christian gentlemen 
whom he esteemed, that his example in providing wine-sangaree 
at his annual receptions was misleading, and betraying to their 
ruin, young men in fashionable society, Dr. Wayland promptly 
said ; ' If my wine makes my brother to offend, I will have no 
more of it.' Professor Lewis, scholarly and logical, reversed his 
opinions and practice, when he perceived, as he himself states it, 
that ' on the subject of temperance there has been committed 
the same error of interpretation that for so long a time confused 
the slavery question.' " 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. l8l 

"To these testimonies was soon added that of Professor 
George Bush, who, when first appealed to, quoted Old and New 
Testament declarations to sustain the custom of using wines in 
fashionable society and in Christian rites ; but who, when asked, 
resolved to examine the original Hebrew and Greek Scriptures, 
and then, after examination, confessed the error into which 
neglect of thorough investigation had led him, and declared to 
the advocates of total abstinence : *You have the whole ground ; 
and in time the whole Christian world will be obliged to adopt 
your views.'" 

We have in the preceding pages called the attention of our 
readers to several works written by late writers, with many quota- 
tions, and now we will see what the surrounding Church organi- 
zations are doing in this most worthy cause. 

The General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, at its 
annual meeting at Madison, Wis., unamimously adopted the fol- 
lowing declaration : 

"The General Assembly, viewing with grave apprehension the persist- 
ence and spread of the use of intoxicating drinks as among the greatest, if 
not the greatest, evil of our day, as a curse resting upon every nation of ' 
Christendom, as multiplying their burdens of taxation, pauperism, and 
crime, as undermining their material prosperity, as a powerful hindrance to 
the Gospel at home, and as still more deeply degrading the heathen whom 
we seek to evangelize abroad, would rejoice at the revival in recent years 
of efforts to stay these great evils, and would renew its testimony, begun as 
early as 1812 (and continued to the present day), *not only against actual 
intemperance, but against all those habits and indulgences which may have 
a tendency to produce it.* " 

The General Conference of the Methodist-Episcopal Church, 
held in Cincinnati m May last, adopted a report on temperance 
containing the following passs^es — or recommendation of changes 
in the Discipline : 

**2. That section 6 of paragraph 175 be amended so that it shall read as 
follows : * To hold quarterly meetings in the absence of the presiding elder, 
and to see that the stewards provide unfermented wine for use in the sacra- 
ment of the Lord's Supper, if practicable.' 



lS2 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

** 3. That the sentence in brackets, immediately preceding paragraph 484 
of the Discipline, be so changed as to read as follows : * Let none but the 
pure unfermented juice of the grape be used in administering the Lord's 
Supper.* 

** 4. We also recommend that the following be inserted in the Discipline 
as a separate chapter, expressive of the general sentiment of the Church on 
the temperance question : 

'TEMPERANCE. 

* Temperance, in its broader meaning, is distinctively a Christian virtue, 
scripturally enjoined. It implies a subordination of all the emotions, pas- 
sions, and appetites to the control of reason and conscience. Dietetically it 
means a wise use of useful articles of food and 'drink, with entire abstinence 
from such as are known to be hurtful. Both science and human experience 
unite with Holy Scripture in condemning all alcoholic beverages as being 
neither useful nor safe. The business of manufacturing and vending such 
liquors is also against the principles of morality, political economy, and the 
public welfare.'" 

The Centennial Conference of Free-Will Baptists, recently in 
session at Weirs, New Hampshire, adopted the following pream- 
ble and resolutions : 

** Whereasy After all the moral and legal temperance victories of the past, 
intemperance still remains the greatest evil of the age; therefore, resolved : 

" I. That while we thank God for the victories already gained, we wpuld 
in this centennial year of our denomination reaffirm with increased em- 
phasis our uncompromising hostility to the intoxicating cup, and pledge 
ourselves anew to the use of all moral and prohibitory means for the utter 
suppression of the sale and use of intoxicating liquors. 

*< 2. That we have no fellowship with those Church members who, in the 
light of the nineteenth century, use as a beverage intoxicating drinks, in- 
cluding ale, lager-beer, wine or cider. 

" 8. That fermented wine should not be used in the communion service, 
and the Church or minister who uses it deserves censure. 

** 9. That the use of tobacco is an unclean and unnatural habit, and 
should be indulged in by neither ministers nor members of the Christian 
Church." 

Surely the life and light of the New Jerusalem are permeating 
the Churches around us. The paragraph abpve, headed "Tem- 
perance," could have no origin but from the Lord. He reforms 
and regenerates the human race through the angels of the New 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 183 

Heavens ; and He effects this divine work in the natural world, as 
far as it can be effected, through men of all religions, and all 
other instruments which the Divine Love by Divine Wisdom can 
marshal into the reconstructive work of the New Jerusalem 
dispensation. Let us remember that the doers of the truth 
alone have the promise that they shall see the truth. The man 
who uses either intoxicating drinks or tobacco, and the woman 
who wears tight dresses, are doing all they can to close their eyes 
and ears and understanding against the truth. Their depraved 
habits produce a corresponding and constantly increasing depra- 
vation of their physical and nervous systems ; so that though 
those habits are sowing within them the seeds of disease and 
death, they are unable to perceive the injury that is being done 
them unless they will heed the Word of the Lord or the testi- 
mony of others. For that consciousness they must go outside of 
themselves, because these evils, like all spiritual evils to which 
they correspond, palliate the suffering which they cause, and 
fasten their chains tighter on their victims, actually making them 
feel better every time they indulge. Although it is through the 
understanding that man must be enlightened, yet there must be a 
willingness to obey, or "having eyes he will see not*' and will not 
be convinced, however clear the light or truth. 

"God speed the time," says the Rev. Dr. Herrick Johnson, 
"when Scriptural arguments in behalf of wine-drinking shall be 
buried in a grave as deep as that where now lie the arguments 
by which the Word of God was once marshalled to the support 
of slavery ! God speed the time when alcoholic wines and 
strong drinks shall be swept from every Christian sideboard, and 
table, and social feast." 

"A few years since an English clergyman," says the Rev. 
William M. Thayer, "who had been intemperate, reformed. At 
a public meeting in Manchester, he said, confessing his guilt, 
'My greatest sin is not found where I brought the most disgrace 
upon my Master's cause in the public view ; my greatest .sin, in 
the sight of God, was when I entered upon the course which led 
to drunkenness.' Was he not right? The intemperate man has 



l84 WINE USED BY THE LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES IN 

incurred guilt somewhere. Was it when he first staggered under 
the influence of strong drink ? Nay, it was before that. Was it 
when he had been a moderate drinker one year, two years, or 
more ? Was it when he drank his tenth, hundredth, or five hun- 
dredth glass ? Was it not rather when he quaffed the first glass 
which lured him to all that followed ? ' It is the first step that 
ruins.' 'Enter not into the path of the wicked' (Prov. iv. 14). 

* Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation* (Matt. xxvL 
41). The divine prohibtion is laid upon the first step to ruin.*' 

The danger is always with the first glass ; the reformed inebriate 
who is looking to the Lord and striving to shun this evil realizes 
this. " Hence," says the Rev. Dr. Samson, "reformed inebriates, 
with one voice, have asked for an unintoxicating wine at the 
Lord's Supper ; and, when this provision has been thought im- 
possible, they have conscientiously abstained often from partak- 
ing of the cup." 

"It is plain," says the Rev. W. M. Thayer, "that the prohibi- 
tion of drunkenness prohibits all indulgence which leads to 
drunkenness : as Dr. Duff says, ' In condemning murder, the 
Bible of necessity condemns the use of any and. all of those 
means which naturally and inevitably lead to it.' Reference 
may be made to the unfermented juice of the grape, and the 
word much used to guard them against over-indulgence, since 
Pliny, Columella, and others say with Dr. Rule", that many 
Romans were so fond of it that ' they would fill their stomachs 
with it, then throw it off by emetics, and repeat the draught.' 
Thus it was with ' honey.' * Hast thou found honey ' ? asks Solo- 
mon ; * eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled 
therewith and vomit it' (Prov. xxv. 16). Bible temperance is 

* moderation' in the use of good things, and abstinence from 
injurious things." 

Since the above was in type, we have selected the following 
extracts from the report of a lecture and remarks in the Glasgow 
(Scotland) League Journal : 

At a select meeting, which comprised many clergymen and 
physicians, Dr. B. W. Richardson, speaking on the subject of 



THE ORIGINAL INSTITUTION OF THE SACRAMENT. 185 

mifermented wines for sacramental purposes, said, — " I think I 
might say in reference to Dr. Kerr*s remarks about the constitu- 
tion of these wines, that if there is anything in what you may call 
similitude and in pure symbolism, as represented in the use of 
wine on the solemn occasion to which he refers, all the question 
of similitude turns toward a wine that is expressed simply from 
the grape. I think there is a passage in the service which says : 
*This is My blood.' Now, if you take that at all as meaning 
anything symbolic, then )^u have a common-sense view in the 
similitude which does really exist between the expressed juice of 
the wine and His blood. That is strictly true. If you look at 
this table on the wall showing the compositions of the two kinds 
of wine, the one fermented, the other unfermented, you will see 
that the constituent parts actually of blood and of the expressed 
wine are strictly analogous. One of the most important elements 
of the blood, that which keeps it together, that which Plato speaks 
of as *the plastic part of the blood,' is the fibrine, and that is 
represented in the gluten of the unfermented wine. If we come 
to the nourishing part of the blood, that which we call the mother 
of the tissues, we find it in the unfermejited grape, in the albu- 
men, and that is also present in the blood ; and if we come to all 
the sdts, there they are in the blood, and the proportion is nearly 
the same in the unfermented wine as in the blo»d ; and if we 
come to the parts of the wine which go to support the respiration 
of the body, we find them in the sugar. Really and truly on^a 
question of symbolism, if there be anything at all in that, the 
argument is all in favor of the use of unfermented wine. But, 
again, I would put it in this way in support of Dr. Kerr. Pre- 
suming that you want the real thing that was fermented for your 
purposes, I should say scientifically that you could not go to that 
thing in its purest form. If you really do want to put a fermented 
substance forward, then you should put it forward in all its purity. 
The logical argument would be not to take an irregular substance 
which is called wine, and which may contain half-a-dozen things 
that are altogether apart from the real thing, but the point would 
be to take an actually pure, simple, fermented substance alto- 



lS6 HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 

gether, free from everything except the fermented substance, the 
completed .process and water. Yet, I suppose, if anything of that 
kind were put forward in the Church, it would be rebelled at uni- 
versally. No one would think of doing it. Yet that is what 
should be done logically if this is to be the thing. You either 
want a fermented or unfermented agent. If it be decided that a 
fermented agent is wanted, take it in all its purity ; if an unfer- 
mented agent, take that which is the natural, simple expression of 
the juice of the grape — ^the rich wine.'* 

Dr. Norman Keri: said, — "That at all periods in the history of 
the Christian Church, in necessity unfermented juice of the grape 
had been held to be wine for the purpose of the sacrament. 
Witnesses were cited in the original from the second, fourth, 
seventh, ninth, thirteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth 
centuries. Unfermented, unintoxicating wine was, at the present 
day, recognized as a lawful element of communion by the 
Methodist - Episcopal, and other bodies in America ; by the 
Established Church of Scotland, by a large number of Noncon- 
forming congregations throughout the kingdom, by a considerable 
array of Established Churches and their mission charges in 
England, and by the annual Mildmay Conference. One bishop 
had sanctioned its use, while several bishops had communicated 
in it and had Made no sign,^^ 

HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 

This is a practical question, and especially so at this day, when 
no one who purchases either unfermented or fermented wine, 
unless he knows by whom it has been made and has confidence 
in the maker, can have any assurance that he is getting an un- 
adulterated article. The blood of the grape, which flows spon- 
taneously when the grape is punctured or crushed, Swedenborg 
informs us, as we have seen, has a higher or more celestial sig- 
nification than wine which is produced by pressure, and for this 
reason was not selected when the Lord instituted this ordinance ; 
and, if it is ever to become appropriate in the New Church, we 
think our readers will conclude with the writer, that the time will 



HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 187 

HOt be during our generation, nor perhaps for many generations 
to come. 

** In remote antiquity, grapes were brought to the table, and 
the juice there expressed for immediate use." — Nott (London 
ed. p. 58). 

" Plutarch affirms that before the time of Psammetichus, who 
lived six hundred years before Christ, the Egyptians neither 
drank fermented wine nor offered it in sacrifice." — Nott (Third 
Lecture). 

"Josephus's version of the butler's speech is as follows : He 
said 'that by the king's permission he pressed the grapes into a 
goblet, and, having strained the sweet wine, he gave it to the 
king to drink, and that he received it graciously.' Josephus here 
uses gleukos to designate the expressed juice of the grape before 
fermentation could possibly commencie." — Bible Commentary 
(p. 18). 

Bishop Lowth, of England, in his "Commentary on Isaiah," in 
1778, remarking upon Isa. v. 2, refers to the case of Pharaoh's 
butler, and says ; " By which it would seem that the Egyptians 
drank only the fresh juice pressed from the grapes, which was 
called oinos ampilinos—t\idX is, wine of the vineyards." 

Rev. Dr. Adam Clarke, on Gen. xl. 11, says : "From this we 
find that the wine anciently was the mere expressed juice of 
the grape without fermentation. The saky, or cup-bearer, took 
the bunch, pressed the juice into the cup, and instantly delivered 
it into the hands of his master. This was anciently the yayin 
[wine] of -the Hebrews, the oinos [wine] of the Greeks, and 
the mustum [new fresh wine] of the ancient Latins." Bagster's 
"Comprehensive Bible" quotes Dr. Clarke with approbation. 

" It appears that the Mohammedans of Arabia press the juice 
of the grape into a cup, and drink it as Pharaoh did."— iV^// 
(London ed. p. 59). 

" A singular proof of the ancient usage of squeezing the juice 
of grapes into a cup has been exhumed at Pompeii. It is that 
of Bacchus standing by a pedestal, and holding in both hands a 



1 88 HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 



large cluster of grapes, aad squeezing the juice into a cup^ 
Bible Wines. 




PRIMmVE WINE PRESS. 

" Professor Tishcendorf has given us a learned edition of the 
Apochryphal ' Acts and Matthew,' a work which was in circula- 
tion in the second and third centuries; and in it we read: 
' Bring ye, as an offering, holy bread, and having pressed out 
into a cup three clusters from the vine be conununicants with 
vat: ''-Rev. Joseph Cook. 



HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 189 

Beyond all question, if we accept the Word of the Lord as 
authority, and in the opinion of the writer beyond the possi- 
bility of a doubt, if we accept Sweden borg as an authority 
on this subject, the recently expressed juice of the grape, used 
before fermentation has commenced, is appropriate for use in the 
Holy Supper. Except when kept below the temperature of 
50° it should not be pressed from the grape earlier than the 
night before the day on which it is to be used, and then it should 
be bottled and carefully corked. It may be prepared by press- 
ing the grapes directly by the hands, as we have seen was often 
done by the ancients, or by any other method. 

This recently expressed must, or new wine, is certainly appro- 
priate, as Swedenborg tells us that must has the same significa- 
tion as wine, namely : " Truth derived from the good of charity 
and love" (A. E. 695) ; and that "new wine is the divine truth 
of the New Testament — consequently, of the New Church; and 
old wine is the divine truth of the Old Testament, consequently 
of the Old Church." (A. R. 316.) 

By must, we know, he does not mean must during the process 
of fermentation, but that he does mean the recently expressed 
juice of the grape before fermentation has commenced, whereas 
fermented wine which has been so generally used he compares 
to falses from evil, as we have seen. 

There are seasons of the year when fresh grapes can be had 
about as readily as wine ; and if grapes grown in a warm climate 
can be had, we have a sweet wine, very pleasant to drink ; but let 
them be grown where they will, we shall have a wine more palata- 
ble to the unperverted taste than the "stuff" which is sold as fer- 
mented wine. 

In this unfermented wine we have a fluid which can justly be 
termed the fhiit of the vine, and which is not produced by 
leaven, like the essential ingredients in fermented wine. 

The objection was made to the writer by a respected clerical 
brother that wine, either recently pressed from the grapes, or 
bottled unfermented wine, if exposed to the air, would not keep ; 
and if a part of a bottie were used, the rest would spoil before 



I90 HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 

an occasion again occurred for using it ; and he seemed to think 
it was an indication that it was not suitable for this purpose. In 
reply, we reminded him of the fact that if special pains were not 
taken to deprive the bread, which he uses for this purpose, of its 
moisture, it would spoil, or become mouldy and sour ; and that 
the meats, fruits, and vegetables from which he daily eats would 
spoil on keeping, many of them in a very short time. Again, we 
called his attention to another important fact, namely, that the 
use. of mouldy and sour bread, tainted meats, and decaying vege- 
tables, however objectionable such use might be, and the writer 
would be the last man to advocate their use, would be far less ob- 
jectionable than the use of fermented wine ; for they would not 
impair to so great an extent his freedom and reason, and would 
never make him drunk, either naturally or spiritually : whereas, 
the use of fermented wine causes insanity and natural drunken- 
ness, and affords a plane of influx for evil spirits which tend to 
infatuate and render men insane in regard to spiritual things. 

When it is desirable to preserve wine for future use, we think 
that, beyond question, the most suitable method is by boiling it 
down fronT one- third to two-thirds, skimming it carefully ; and, 
then, while hot, putting it into bottles, or into glass fruit-cans, 
and sealing it up as fruit is canned. Thus preserved, when wanted 
for use, it can be readily reduced in water to the desired thin- 
ness. If we wish to make a wine from noxthem sour grapes simi- 
lar to the wines of Palestine, or a sweet and palatable wine, it is 
necessary to add sugar. The Lord called the contents of the cup 
the fruit of the vine ; and we know of no method by which the 
fruit of the vine, or the entire juice which can be pressed from the 
the grape, can be preserved in its integrity except by boiling. It 
loses nothing but the water, which can be readily restored, as water 
is always the same when pure. There is no useful organic sub- 
stance removed, and it is not, like fermented wine, contaminated 
by any heterogeneous substance even if sugar is added. It is 
therefore, pure and contains the entire substance of the fruit of 
the vine, excepting the seeds, skins, and cellular and fibrous por- 
tions of the grapes. The boiled wine improves by age. 



HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 191 

" Archbishop Potter, who lived about two centuries ago, wrote 
in his * Grtfcian Antiquities' : ' The Lacedaemonians used to boil 
their wines upon the fire until the fifth part was consumed : then 
after four years were expired, began to drink them.' He refers 
to Democritus, a celebrated philosopher, who travelled over the 
greater part of Europe, Asia, and Africa, and who died 361 b. c. ; 
also to Palladius, a Greek physician, as making a similar state- 
ment. 'Some of the celebrated Opimian wine mentioned by 
Pliny had, in his day, two centuries after its production, the con- 
sistence of honey." — Wines of the Bible, 

Where grapes are grown or can be had, every religious so- 
ciety, or every clergyman if he pleases, can prepare wine by this 
simple and cheap process, and always be sure of having a pure 
article at all seasons, and one which can justly be called the fruit of 
the vine, for in this process the gluten is preserved. In the other 
processes which we have described, namely, that of filtering re- 
peatedly, and that of keeping cool and setding, the gluten is 
removed ; therefore the wine thus preserved is not as perfectly the 
firuit of the vine as is the boiled wine ; although such wine is un- 
objectionable as a drink, and is many times nearer the fruit of 
the vine than femiented wine : still the writer would give the 
preference to boiled wine when it ca|i be obtained. Then, 
beside, boiling has a good signification. (A. C. 8496, 10,105.) 

As to wines which are preserved by the addition of foreign 
substances, with perhaps the exception of sugar, which are capa- 
ble of preventing or arresting fermentation, such as sulphur, the 
fumes of sulphur, salicylic acid, mustard, etc., we think they are 
all out of the question for sacramental purposes, although not as 
objectionable as fermented wine. Where the fumes of burning 
sulphur are simply used to destroy the germs of ferment m the 
cask before it is filled, and in the atmosphere between the bung 
and. wine after the cask is filled, as is sometimes the case, no 
great injury to the wine can result. 

Rev. Joseph Cook, of Boston, in a sermon delivered while in 
England, says in regard to unfermented wine : " Your own Dr. 
Norman Kerr tells you that he drinks unfermented wine brought 



192 HOW SHALL WE PREPARE OUR COMMUNION WINE? 

from the East. I know where in London to buy that kind of 
wine. What is more, I know from some observation in the 
East and from reading testimonies from there that many Syrian 
Churches to-day use that kind of wine in their religious feasts. 
I have witnessed in London the processes by which unfermented 
wine is manufactured for the fifteen hundred congregations in 
the United Kingdom, which now use only such wine in their 
administration of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. The 
manufacturing chemist cited Columella's and Pliny's receipts for 
preventing fermentation, and assured me that he could not improve 
them in point of efficacy. Dr. Kerr has shown that wine may 
be preserved unfermented by eight or ten different methods, 
many of which were known to the ancients." 

The writer has called the attention of the reader to the most 
important of these methods in the chapter on the Wines of the 
Ancients, to which he refers him for further information on this 
subject. 

In regard to preserving wine, by the aid of a stratum of sweet 
oil, as practiced by the ancients and described in the preceding 
pages, lest some of his readers may be disappointed in experi- 
menting in that direction, the writer will say that the process evi- 
dently requires great care to prevent the germs of ferment being 
mixed with the wine. Of three experiments which the writer has 
made with a glass bottle and a stratum of sweet oil, during the 
the past season, only one has been successful, and in that the 
wine is beautiful and clear, with a moderate amount of lees in the 
bottle. Although the cork has been frequently removed, yet 
there has been no signs of fermentation. The bottle was scalded 
out before being filled, and was immediately filled with the cold 
juice just as it was squeezed by the hands from the grapes 
through two thicknesses of a linen strainer. The ancients, it will 
be remembered, oiled their vessels carefully on the inside before 
filling them with the juice of the grape ; and a bottle should be 
either oiled on the inside or carefully scalded with boiling water 
before being filled, even if it is a new bottle. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

•^' 

i PROHIBmON. 

' We know that the use of intoxicating drinks is, directly or in- 
directly, the cause of more than one-half of the crimes committed 
and of the poverty, wretchedness, and insanity which exist in 
the communities where they are used ; and their use is the most 
prolific of all of the causes of disease, and even of idiocy. As 
-to the mortality which results from this cause, we clip from the 
Morning Light oi May 7th, 1 881, the following letter, which is a 
fair presentation of the results of careful observation : 

THE DEATH RATE AND TOTAL ABSTINENCE.' 

Dear Sir, — WitTi reference to Mr. Bingham's speech in your issue for 
April 23d, the following particulars may interest your readers : 

At the end of 1878 the average death rate in the General Section of the 
Sceptre Life Office for the fourteen years of its existence had been 8 in the 
1,000, in the Temperance Section 4f . The number of deaths expected in 
the Temperance Section of the same office for the five years ending 1879 
was 90, the actual number dying being 47. 

The number of deaths expected in the General Section of the Temper- 
ance Provident Institution for the years 1871-75 was 1,266, the actual num- 
ber dying being 1,330; in the Temperance Section for the same period the 
number expected to die was 723; only 511 died. Referring to this report, 
John Bright said the figures " are most remarkable. There is no mistake 
about it that the men who abstain from intoxicating drinks have an immense 
advantage, both physically and morally, over the rest of the community." 

The report of this same office for the year 1879 shows the same thing. 
During the year preceding the annual meeting the number of deaths ex- 
pected in the General Section was 305, the actual number dying being 326; 
in the Temperance Section " 196 were expected, and only 164 were ob- 
stinate enough to die. For the four years ending since the last division 
of profits the claims made in the Temperance Section were 215 less, in the 
General Section 2 more than expected. 

A map of the township of Toxteth Park, Liverpool, shows that a division 
containing no public-houses and five-twelfths of the whole population, 



194 PROHIBITION. 

rejoices in enough (45) paupers; the remainder of the township, with seven 
twelfths of the population and 2CX5 public-houses, contains i,^^^ paupers. 
* * * Finally, may I call the attention of your readers to the village of 
St. Johnsbury, Vermont, U. S. A. The Maine Liquor Law is enforced there 
with the result that its six constables work in the scale manufactories except 
on special days, when they "don their uniforms to make a little show. ♦ ♦ * 
No loafer hangs about the kerbstones. Not a beggar can be seen. No 
drunkard reels along the streets. There seem to be no poor. I have not 
seen, in two days' wandering up and down, one child in rags, one woman 
looking like a slut." — Hepworth Dixon, Letters from America. 

The figures I have quoted seem conclusive, for we must recollect that the 
General Sections are not composed of drunkards, only moderate drinkers 
are admitted to them. If, then, the mortality rate amongst total abstainers 
is so superior to moderate drinkers, total abstinence cannot be otherwise than 
better. George Gordon Pulsford. 

Hamstead, near Birmingham, April 18, 1881. 

The only argument that can be urged to-day against prohibi- 
tion is that of expediency. The time has passed when any 
intelligent man will question the right of the community to pro- 
tect its members against such dire evils as result from the use of 
intoxicating drinks. Liberty is constantly restrained where its 
exercise may be used by any to his neighbor's detriment, or his 
own injury. A man cannot build a dwelling-house on his own 
land, and for his own use, until the proper department has certified 
that his plans are safe for his neighbors, and healthful for his o^n 
indwelling. A family living contentedly under ground, with 
insufficient light and air, are expelled from their home, and the 
cellar is closed, regardless of the complaint of landlord and 
tenant. No other evil is so productive of injury to the com- 
munity as this curse of alcohol ; yet almost any other may be 
legislated against if this is let alone. We punish with relendess 
severity the poor drunken wretch who has violated the law, 
though we know that the crime was committed when the stupify- 
ing and poisonous draught had deprived him entirely of that 
sense of right and wrong, which lies at the very foundation of 
moral responsibility. We punish the drunken criminal, not for 
the tippling which has led to his insanity and crime, but for the 
crimes that he would never have committed in his sober senses; 



PROHIBITION. . 395 

and then we renew the license of the rum-seller whose liquor 
has crazed him j so that when his term of punishment has expired 
he may again be subjected to the same temptation, and society 
again suffer from his evil-doing. Against every other danger we 
may protect ourselves without the cry of fanaticism, or danger to 
private rights. The officers of the law go into our most private 
apartments to search for sewer-gas, or some source of ill-health, 
that may work harm to a few occupants of the house, and pass 
by the licensed shop that corrupts a neighborhood and ruins 
bodies and souls. We compel the fencing in of an area, lest 
some unwary passer-by or some child may fall into it ; and allow 
the rum-seller his public bar-room, where he may display his 
decanters, and his beer-pump, and his free lunch to entice our 
young men into the broad road which leads to drunkenness and 
death. We enter by force if needs be, and take away sick 
children from their parents* care to a public hospital, and disin- 
fect houses where there has been a contagious disease. We 
break up gambling- hells, and policy-shops, and disorderly houses, 
because they are detrimental to the morals of the community. 
But there is no contagion more deadly, no gas more pernicious, 
no allurement to vice so potent as this curse of bar-room drink- 
ing. Where gaming ruins one fortune rum ruins many ; and no 
other vice is so thoroughly destructive of all manliness as rum 
can be. What vice or weakness can we name that leads to crime 
as this does? What vice or misery can we name to which the 
first glass may not lead? Look at the squandered fortunes — the 
diseased frames — the imbecile minds — the ruined homes — the 
blighted lives — the broken hearts ! See in how many families of 
your own friends the curse comes, striking the brightest and 
best ; see the poverty, the ruin, the crime, and the vast multitudes 
.going on in never-ending succession to fill drunkards* graves; 
and then see the community lopping off little branches of evil, 
and letting this giant tree of evil stand to scatter its balefiil 
.seeds ! 

We ask you, intelligent reader, if such a course of conduct is 
worthy of a Christian or even a civilized people ? Is it not clearly 



196 PROHIBITION. 

bur duty to protect the young and the weak from such a degrading 
evil as the sin of indulging in intoxicating drinks ? 

It does ceitainly seem that we should, at least, withhold the 
sanction of the law from the sale of such drinks. And it does 
seem that, if it is ever proper to enact laws to prevent crime and 
the contamination of the young, it is clearly our duty, if practi- 
cable, to do so in this instance. But we know very well that 
before a law can be enforced, the honest convictions of a very 
large majority of the people must sustain it. If there is any 
doubt upon this point, our first duty is clearly to do all we can to 
enlighten the people, and not to strive to enact prematurely a 
law which we have good reason to suppose will not be enforced. 

But the writer thinks that, if the advocates of total abstinence, 
even in the State of New York, would strive to enact a law to 
close all bar-rooms where intoxicating liquors are sold, or given 
away publicly to be drank on the premises ; and yet not attempt 
to prevent their sale in quantity to be taken away from the place 
of sale, that the good sense of the community would* sustain Such 
a law. The advocates of the liberty of drinking what they choose 
could not raise the cry that it interferes with their right to drink, 
and get drunk if they choose. The habit of drinking intoxicants 
at this day is generally acquired in bar-rooms, where young men 
can invite their comrades up to take a drink with them. Very 
few young men who have not acquired the habit of drinking 
would ever purchase liquor to carry it to their homes where, as 
a rule, even drunken parents do not favor their children's drink- 
ing. Under the operation of such a law the race of drinkers 
would materially lessen in a very few years, when there would 
be no difficulty in enacting and enforcing a prohibitory law. 

The Rev. Dr. Samson, in a work just published, entitled "Sci- 
ence the Interpreter of History as to Fermented Wine— a Supple- 
ment to the ' Divine Law as to Wines,* " speaking of the efforts of 
the ancients to control and prohibit the use of wines, says : 

" That it was not the excess, but the use of wines, which the 
ancients sought to control by law, is seen in the entire list of pro- 
hibitions to youth, to women, to nurses, to men in public service, 



PROHIBITION. 197. 

which Plato and Aristotle, Numa and Cato urged. That it is 
not the excessive use, but the intoxicant itself, that controls 
modem legislation is attested by the fact that it is not bread- 
shops, nor milk-dealers, that need to be restrained and pro- 
hibited ; while all unite in the effort to restrict and suppress beer- 
saloons, and to supplant them by coffee-shops. It is not winesy 
but intoxicating winQs, that earnest Christian leaders seek to have 
exchanged for the ancient unintoxicating wines ; which Pliny 
states, though costly, as were choice fruits, were sought for the 
wealthy of his day. It is such wines that are now sought for the 
tables of the princely in wealth and intellect ; and above all, for ' 
the table of the Lord around which the rich and the poor meet 
together. The noble condescension, if not the conscientious 
conviction, of American Christians cannot fall behind that of 
Churchmen of England in seeking and permitting the use of 
such wines." 

In Maine, as is well known to disinterested inquirers and 
observers, the law prohibiting the manufacture, sale, and giving 
away of intoxicating drinks, has been very fairly enforced for 
many years, perhaps as fully as laws against many other crimes ; 
and this notwithstanding the immense pressure which has been 
brought against it from its opponents all over the country. It 
will be much easier to enforce such a law when it is enacted by 
other States, 

As to Kansas, where such a law has recently been enacted, 
based upon a constitutional amendment, we will let the Governor 
speak for his State : 

PROHIBITION IN THE STATE OF KANSAS — GOVERNOR ST. JOHN'S FIRM 
FAITH IN THE TEMPERANCE MOVEMENT. 

Governor John P. St. John of Kansas was in Indianapolis lately, 
and in a conversation with a reporter of the Seniinely gave his 
views upon the causes and effects of the temperance movement 
in the State of Kansas. In reply to a question, its Governor said : 

"What has been accomplished in Kansas is of not near the 
importance of what will be done in Indiana. Our greatest work 



198 PROHIBITION. 

fe over ; the Prohibition Law is enforced, and our people would 
not be without it." 

"What started the prohibition movement in Kansas?" asked 
the reporter. 

"It originated through local option," was the reply, "which 
started a temperance sentiment in the State that spread with 
great rapidity. In my town of Othalia, which has a population 
of about 3,000, a local option law was enforced a few years ago, 
and the three saloons were compelled to close on account of 
being unable to obtain the petition of two-thirds of the adult 
inhabitants of the town. Previous to this time the saloons paid 
the city ;J 1, 5 00 for license — $500 each — and out of this amount, 
^^ch was received yearly, it became necessary to erect a small 
jail for drunkards. Since the saloons have been closed there 
has been no use for the jail, and but one drunken man has been 
seen on the streets since last November. The town was never 
before so prosperous, and the improvements it has undergone are 
wonderful. Such was also the case with the towns of Ottawa, 
Hiawatha, and many others, and it did not take long to stir up 
a sentiment in favor of a prohibitory amendment to the State 
Constitution." 

"How long have you had prohibition in Kansas?" was the 
next query. 

"The amendment to the Constitution was passed by our Legis^ 
lature in 1879, and was voted on by the people at the next 
general election in 1880, and wa3 carried by a majority of 8,000. 
It went into effect last May. Since then all disputed questions 
have been settled, and the Supreme Court and the Attorney- 
General have declared the law to be constitutional. Before the 
election we had to fight not only the combined whisky element 
of Kansas, but money was sent into the State from all parts of 
the country to use in defeating the amendment. We came 
out victorious, however, and now if a vote should be taken by 
the people to restore anti- prohibition again it would be defeated 
by 70,000 majority. It is not a 'dead letter,' as many suppose, 
as we permit no such things in Kansas. The whisky element 



PROHIBITION. xgg> 

have circulated the story all Qver the United States that thei 
amendment prohibits the use of wine for sacramental purposes. 
Old drunkards an^ bummers who had not been in Church for 
twenty years shed crocodile tears over this matter. It is wholly a 
misrepresentation of facts. The amendment plainly says : 'The 
manufacture and sale ot intoxicating liquors shall be forever pro- 
hibited in this State, except for medical, scientific, and mechani- 
cal purposes.' Every Chinch in the State indorsed the law. 
Since we have had prohibition there has been a yery noticeable 
decrease in crime. On the 30th day of December, 1880, there 
were 725 convicts in the State prison, and on June 30, 1881, 
there were 659, a decrease of 66 in six months. There had 
been no decrease for ten years before." 

"Does the temperance question enter ipto the politics of 
Kansas?" asked the scribe. 

" Prohibition was never a political question. I was elected as 
a straight radical Republican, and received a plurality of 52,000 
votes, which was a majority of 33,000 over the Democratic 
and Greenback candidates. I was nominated for the office on 
the first ballot, notwithstanding there were six other candidates. 
The Democratic party in Kansas, as ai^ organization, is opposed 
to prohibition, although there are probably a large number of 
Democrats who favor prohibition and voted for it." 

"Is it true. Governor, that a large number of persons are 
leaving the State on account of the prohibitory law?" 

"It is not the case,"- was the emphatic reply. "You cannot 
show me fifty men who have left Kansas on account of prohibi- 
tion. The saloon-keepers are the only men who are leaving. 
Where you get one of pur saloon-keepers we get several Indiana 
families on account of prohibition, and the exchange is a good 
one for us. Never in the history of the State have we had such 
a fine immigration, arid the immigrants are all of the better class, 
who make good citizens. The State is increasing in wealth, and 
the good results of prohibition are apparent to every one. We 
never had but two distillers tp cprisume our com, and therefore, 
there is no change in the market for grain. There always was a 



200 PROHIBITION. 

market for com on account of the outlet to the Gulf of Mexico' 
and the South/' 

"What do you think of the progress of the temperance move- 
ment throughout the country? " 

"It is my opinion," he answered, "that it will not be a quarter 
of a century before there will be an amendment to the Constitu- 
tion of the United States. It would sooner occur if the debt ques- 
tion was out of the way. I do not beheve in that manner of paying 
the public debt, biit the Government finds the income from the 
manufacture of alcohol a convenient way to assist in settling it." 

EMANUEL SWEDENBORG AND PROHIBmON. 

In his Memorial to the Swedish Diet, quoted in a previous 
chapter, after suggesting that certain restrictions should be placed 
on the distilling of whisky, — " provided the public can be prevailed \ 
upon to accede to the measure," — ^Swedenborg says : "That is, if 
the consumption of whisky cannot be done away with altogether, ; 
which would be more desirable for the country's welfare and- 
morality than all the income which could be realized from so -. 
pernicious a drink." 

Swedenborg well knew, as we know, that proliibition alone 
could do away with the use of whisky entirely, and it is of legal ^ 
measures he is speaking in the above paragraph ; and that he . 
would have approved of prohibition, if it had been practicable, 
the writer thitiks is manifest. 

"I spoke with spirits," says Swedenborg, "concerning drunk- 
enness, and it was confirmed by them that it is an enormous sin, 
as well as that man becomes a brute [and] no longer a man ; 
because that man is a man lies in his intellectual faculty, thus he 
becomes a brute, besides which he brings damage on his body, 
and so hastens his death, besides wasting in extravagance what 
might be of use to many. — (1748, June 27.) And it appeared to 
them so filthy that they abhorred such a life, which mortals never- 
theless have introduced among themselves as a civil life." (S. D. 
2422.) No wonder that Swedenborg favored prohibition. 



CHAPTER XIV, 

FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH, 

While the New Church in this country, as an external organi- 
zation, is silent in regard to the evils of intemperance, and so 
many of its periodicals and clergy are striving to justify the use 
of fermented wine, and some of them of whisky, as beverages, 
our brethren in Great Britain, are awakening to the importance of 
this question. It was stated some months ago, in the Jforning 
Light, that one-third of the New Church clergy and one-third of 
the laity in that country were advocates of total abstinence. A 
New Church Temperance Society, with auxilliary societies, has 
been formed^ and "Bands of Hope," in various localities, are 
energetically laboring in this great reform movement. . 

At the annual meeting or the New Church Conference recently 
held, w^ are told by the Morning Light, that "resolutions were 
passed unanimously expressing the satisfaction of the Conference 
at the formation of the New Church Temperance Society, and in 
favor of the Sunday Closing Bill.'* ' , 

The Temperance So'ciety held its annual meeting during the 
session of the Conference. In regard to this meeting, the Morn- 
ing Light says : 

, " In the evening, a very successful meeting was held in the large school^ 
room, the room being well filled — indeed a great many friends being obliged 
to stand. At half-past seven the Rev. G. H. Smith took the chair, and 
mentioned the broad basis of the Society, recommending all present to join 
its ranks before leaving that night. The Rev. P. Ramage moved the first 
resolution— * That this, meeting expresses its satisfaction in the establish- 
ment of the New Church Temperance Society, and cordially recommends 
its operations to every member in the New Church.' Mr. Ramage made a 
brief but able speech, dwelling on the importance of bringing up children 
in the habits of total abstinence. The Rev. R. R. Rodgers warmly sup- 
pbrted thii resolutions, and said that he thought at one time iio one could 

'• ^^i) .•■;.:...'... _ - - • 



i 



202 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

have felt more certain than he that only moderate drinkers possessed com- 
mon sense, and that teetotallers were all fanatics. However, during the 
last year, when he had really and thoroughly investigated the matter, he 
found that in every way the teetotaller had the best of the argument. 
Whether it was in science, in health, or in practice, all on investigation 
tended to prove total abstinence was more productive of health, longevity 
and comfort, and therefore, as an honest man, he could not help siding 
with total abstinence. He was not a teetotaller at present, but he was 
coming to it, [We wish ^11 of our clerical brethren could say as much.] 
He hoped that every minister and representative of the Conference would 
join the Society before returning home. The resolution was then put to 
the meeting, and carried unanimously amid loud applause. 

" The next resolution was — * That this meeting, deeply impressed with 
flie evils which the national intemperance is daily producing— evils domestic, 
social, economical, political and moral, and which Mr. Gladstone has 
described as equalling the combined calamities of war, pestilence, and 
famine — earnestly asserts the paramount necessity of dealing with the ques^ 
tion by legislative enactment at the earliest opportunity.* 

"This was moved by Dr. F. R. Lees, of Leeds, who spoke at some 
length, showing wherever prohibition had been tried, whether in England, 
Ireland, Australia or America, the result had been the great diminution of 
aU kinds of crime, and the social and moral elevation of the people. The 
Itev. J. Deans, in a few words, supported the resolution, whiph was carriedi 
unanimously." 

Shall we of the New Church in this country set our faces 
against this fearful evil of indulging in intoxicating drinks, and 
consequently put away drunkenness from our midst ; or shall we, 
knowing and' remembering that such drinks are the product of 
human manipulation and skill, or science aided by leaven, con- 
tinue to cling to, and lug along, these flesh-pots from "Egypt m our 
journey toward the Holy City ? We pray for the peace of the 
New Jerusalem, and that the promises of increase made to her 
may find a speedy fuJfilUnent on the earth. May not the day 
which we thus desire and hope for be hastened or delayed, as we 
ourselves shall prepare the way for it, by shunning evils as sins 
against God. We are told in the writings of the Church that the 
"falsities of the former Church fight against the truths of the New 
Church " (A, IL 543), and "that the Church should at first be 
among a few, and should increase gradually among many, because 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 203 

the falsities of the former Church must first be removed, as truths 
cannot before be received ; for the truths which are received and 
implanted before falsities are removed do not remain." With 
these words before us, can we believe it possible that the Lord in 
His Providence will permit a Church organization to prosper, as 
we all feel the New Church should prosper, and cover the earth, 
while such an organization and its periodicals and clergy, so 
generally are either silent in regard to such evils or direct advo- 
cates of drinking of intoxicating Hquors, of smoking and chewing 
tobacco — a terribly poisonous substance — and of the pernicious 
fashionable habits so destructive to our race ; thus either tolerat- 
ing or directly striving tq perpetuate during the endless ages to 
come, drunkenness, filthy habits : a polluted atmosphere for men, 
women and children to bfeathe ; deformity, disease and the de- 
struction of a large portion of the children before they are five 
years old ; and permitting few to reach advanced age. These 
evils, as we have heretofore intimated, have come down to us from 
a perverted age of the world and a fallen state of the Church, and 
we must .put them away as sips agamst God. What a dreadful 
thing it is to strive tp justify them from a religious standpoint, and 
thus to perpetuate them from generation to generation 1 

What a fearful thing for humanity, if the New Jerusalem Church, 
the Crown of all the Churches, were, as an external organi- 
zation, to prevail rapidly and spread over the earth, hugging 
to her bosom the monstrous evils we have named above ; or, at 
least, allowing them to prevail without one word of rebuke, and 
thus perpetuating them. We can stand aloof, my brethren, from 
the great reforms of this new age ; indeed, we may oppose them 
if we will ; but let us not forget that by so doing we shall be hin- 
dering, as fiar qis within us lies, the Lord's work on earth, by 
cherishing and defending the falsities of the former Church within 
the New Church : and opposing and discrediting the New Jerusa- 
lem now descending from God out of Heaven, which is making 
all things new. Light has come into the world, showing us many 
evils that w^re before esteemed good : and that light will con- 
denua us if we walk not according to iu These great reform 



*04 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

movements did not exist and could not have existed before the 
Last Judgment. They are clearly of the New Jerasalem, we 
may not be, for it requires life as well as faith to make a man 
a genuine New Chiu-chman. We must shun evils as sins against 
God^ — shun them in our external lives, and discountenance them 
in others by our example, if we would enter the Holy City, It is 
not well for us to deceive ourselves or others. 

The State Board of Public Charities in the State of Massa- 
chusetts make this significant statement: that in the careful 
breeding of cattie 96 per cent, come to maturity, and that of 
horses 95 per cent, come to maturity even in this northern 
climatie ; but in the breeding of children less than 65 per cent, 
comes to maturity. 

' Only think of it, dear reader. Seven times as m^y of the 
human race, whom the Lord has endowed with freedom and 
reason die before reaching maturity, as die among cattle, and 
horses ; and this is not the worst feature of the comparison which 
can be made ; for those which reach a mature age among 
the above animals, if their lives are not taken, and. they are 
not abused by man, almost all will be healthy, strong, and 
well-developed, and finally die of old age ; while among. the 
human species, almost all inherit a tendency to some one or 
more of the various diseases which afflict humanity, and a ma- 
jority cannot be regarded as healthy, and are -subject to serious 
periods of suffering, if they do not suffer more or less almost 

^ constantly from the time of birth to the grave. Insanity is also 
fearfully prevalent, and deformity is common among the men. 
Aniong the women it is very difficult to find a single beauti- 
ful, ^ymmetricial, graceful humali form, for deformity is the rule, 

' . — ^alas \ too frequently voluntarily induced, as in the case of the 
deformed waists which are almost universal. 

Wejudgeof theageofahorsebyhisteeth. What success would 
we have in judging of the age of middle-aged men and women by 
their teeth ? Why, it often happens that by the age of forty or 
fifty years, when they should be in their prime, they have no 
tefith ; but if' they are more fortunate, it very firequently h^pena 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 205 

that they are so crowded and decayed, or so many of them 
gone, that we should find them a very poor criterion by which 
to judge of the age of the individual. 

Now, dear friends, this direful state of things, this deformity, 
insanity, suffering, and premature death, are the result of causes 
both spiritual and physical — are the result of the violation of the 
laws of spiritual and physical life and health, resulting from the 
abuse of the freedom and reason with which the Lord has 
endowed us. We cannot attribute it all to ignorance, for the 
animals are ignorant, but comparatively healthy. A large portion 
is due to the evils of a long line. of ancestors ; but, insomuch as 

. we violate the laws of spiritual and physical life we individually 
are responsible, and we are responsible for the example which we 
set to others. How important for us, how important for the 
world around us, and for our children and our children's children 
for ages to come, that we realize our responsibility and shape 
our lives accordingly. Can you, dear parents, see your own child 
suffering and dying, while the offspring of tlie animals around you 

, are so generally healthy and grow to maturity, without feeling 
that some little responsibility rests upon you, without being 
moved by sympathy for the children, which the Lord has en- 

. trusted to your care, to inquire earnestly into the causes which 
have produced the suffering and death of your little ones? You 
:will not have to inquire long, to find that to gratify perverted love 
of approbation or vanity, and perverted appetites and passions, 
habits are voluntarily followed which are fesafully destructive to 
pur race. . 

We. think we can say, without any danger of having our opinion 
called in question by any one who has patiently and carefully 
examined into the causes of the physical suffering, deformity 
and premature deaths around us, that tight- lacing among our 
women impairs the physical development and stamina of our race 
more than any other evil ; for it saps the very foundations of life, 
by preventing the development of the young, before they are 
born, and by too frequently depriving them of proper nourish- 
ment after birth. The women of the New Church here have a 



2Q6 final APP2AI. TO THE MEN AND 

work to do whieh they^ should not neglect. Jhi^ fearful evil, 
which is so destructive, should be put away and shunned as a sin 
against God. ' Idleness among the young women i^ also a great 
^vil with many, and prevents the development of the body. 

But beyond all question the use of intoxicating drinjis, which 
have their origin as we have seen from hell, depnpralizes and 
depraves njen, and causes more insanity, mental suffering, and 
wretchedness than any pther evil. While the New Chiu-ch 
organizations, its pulpits, — ^with a very few noble exceptions, — and 
its periodicals are either shunning this subject, or directly jus- 
tifying and thus encouraging the U3e of intoxicating prinks ^ 
and so many of our clergymen are vindicating t}ie use of fer- 
mented wine, and some even of whisky ; the religious world 
around us is alive to the importance and duty of shunning this 
evil. We ask our brethren tQ consider sepously the follpwin^ 
paragraph which we take frqm the New York Tribune : 

"The Methodist Conference, which closed its sessions in Portland, Me., 
last week, adopted a striking report on the evils of intemperance. The 
charge was made that more than two-thirds of the murders committed can 
be laid at rum's door. Fifty per cent, of all the insanity comes from strong 
drink. Seventy-five per cent, of all criminals become &uch while crazed by 
drink, and ninety-six per cent, of all the tramps and worthless youth of the 
land s^arm from drunken homes. It costs for the support of 63,000 
chovches, 80,000 ministers, all public schools and colleges, all missions, all 
benevolent worJc in the United States, and the support of the Natioji^l 
Government, not over $500,000,000 a year. It costs for 250,000 dxam- 
-shops, 400,000 licjuor-sellprs, over 300,000 criminals, 8oo,QOo p?iupers, 30,oop 
idiots, nearly 70,000 drunkards' funerals, and to maintain the orphan asy- 
lums, reformqitories, etc., more than a billion a year. Who is responsible 
for all this waste of money, and health and life ? The Church of Christ is 
largely responsible; for the Master has said to His Churc^, *Ye are the 
light of the world, ye are the salt of the earth.' " 

The Methodist Church is one of the largest, most prosperous, 

and progressive of the churches of our couutry. It commenced 

its existence but a short time after the Last Judgment, and to-day 

its adherents pumber more than ?iny other denpminaXion in the 

-United States; while the adherients of the organized Church of 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH- ?P7 

the New Jerusalem^only number a few thousands, Jt is true that 
all the believers of the heavenly doctrines do not belong to 
the organized New Church, for many of them are to be found 
scattered among the members of other Churches, and some are 
not members of any Church organization ; still their number is 
comparatively small, for the prediction was, that at first their 
niimber would be few, but afterward they would increase. Have 
we any indications that the time for such increase is at hand ? Can 
we not see in the attitude which the organized Nev Church occu- 
pies to-day, on the great reforms of the ag^, the reason why 
its members are so few? 

There are millions of people in the United States, who belong 
to no Church, who do not regularly attend Church, and who be-: 
lieve the doctrines of no religious body. They hgye discarded many 
f^se doctrines, but have no accurate knowledge of true doctrines, 
excepting a general acquaintance with the Comn^andments of th^e 
Decalogue, and the precepts enunciated by the Lor4 when He 
was on earth, and for these they entertain more or less respect. 
They are not hypocrites, and many of them are intelligent men 
and women, and live orderly lives. They generally respect people 
who live good lives, and will listen attentively and lapprovingly tp 
earnest practical preaching which inculcates a good life. Here, 
then, in our own country, living in our veiy midst, are people 
enough in this Gentile state, to form a jiation, which, standing 
by itself, would command the respect of the world. The 
New Church has true doctrines, and the most valuable precepts 
of life which can be rationally seen tp be true — true in the light 
of truth itself. 

Why is it, then, that the New Church does not make more rapid 
progress among this multitude, to ail appearance so admirably 
prepared for a reception of her clear and rational doctrines? 
Have we who have received these beautiful revelations cast any 
stumbling-blocks in their way ? Have our clergymen and writers 
done so? These are questions well worthy of our consideration. 
If the reader will pardon him, the writer will give a litde of his 
own history. Although the son of a deacon of the Baptist 



2o8 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

Church; he never united with that Church,^ but early began to 
doubt many of its doctrines; and at thirty years of age, he 
belonged to tlie great class of Gentiles, if you please to call them 
so, to which he has alluded. While practising medicine in a 
Western city, two of his patrons, one a lady and the other a 
gentleman, lent, him Professor George Bush's "Reasons," and 
Swedenborg's "Heaven and Hell," both of which he read. 
About that time some lectures were being given by a fJew 
Church clergyman, which he attended, and in this way lie soon 
became deeply interested in the Writings of Emanuel Swedenborg. 
His business partner, similarly situated, also commenced reading 
about the same time.. It was soon known byth^ members of the 
Church there, that we were reading the writings with some 
interest; and soon afterward we were invited to a New Church 
"sociable," which we attended. During the evening, fermented . 
wine was passed around to the company present, and offered to 
US; We were shocked beyond measure, and quietly spoke to 
the New Church clergyman in regard to it, there and. then; 
when, to our surprise, he justified its. use, quoting for. that purpose 
some passages from Swedenborg^ and then drank of it himself 
along with others of the company, s 

When the writer was about eighteen years old, his father gave 
up the use of intoxicating drinks, and signed a pledge never to 
use them again, and his son- folio wed his ex^ple. In looking 
back over the years which have since passed, at his own life and 
the lives of his acquaintances, if there is one thing standing out 
boldly, above all others, for which he to-day specially feels thank- 
ful to his father, it is for the example which he then set before him. 
We know that it is not every child who follows the example of 
his parents ; but many do, both in good and evil. That pledge 
the writer conscientiously kept. When a young man, away 
from kindred and home, and travelling for months among stra,n- 
gers, he was often asked Jto drink, even by ladies, but that pledge 
was — what the Church should be to all its members — a protec- 
tion against the debasing evil of 4nnking and drunketine$s. 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 209 

'' 'There are millions of men and women in our country, who 
belong to no Church, but who have taken a pledge to abstain 
from the use of intoxicating drinks, honestly feeling that it is 
wrong to use them, and who, we have every reason to suppose, 
are conscientiously keeping it, and are thereby shielded and 
protected, not only from drunkenness, but from many other 
evils ; for Swedenborg teaches us, that when a man conscientiously 
shuns one evil, the Lord strives to keep him in the effort to shun 
all evils. Here, then, is good ground for the reception of the 
rational doctrines of the New Church, and a vast field ready for 
the seedsman. But, we ask you, intelligent reader, if a minister, 
missionary, writer, layman, or periodical, with, as it were, the 
clear and beautiful revelations of the New Church in one hand, 
and a glass of intoxicating wine, beer, or perhaps whisky in the 
other hand, is likely to command the respect, or even seriously 
attract the attention of many of this great army of total abstinence 
men and women dwelling among us ? Is this not a dreadful evil, 
a hindrance to the Church's progress, and a stumbling-block to 
many conscientious men, which we, as New Churchmen, should 
remove out of the path of others, by putting it away from our lives 
and from our communion-tables ? 

Again, there is scarcely a man or woman in this great mul- 
titude who does not recognize the fact that the use of tobacco 
is a filthy and injurious habit, totally unbecoming a Christian 
man; a large number of total abstainers from intoxicating 
drinks abstain also from the use of tobacco, because they 
feel that it is injurious to health, and consequently wrong to use 
it There are very few in the community who, whether they use 
it or not, do not recognize and will not acknowledge that its use 
is injurious, and that it is really an evil which should be put away. 
Now, with the glorious doctrines in our keeping, that *'all 
religion has relation to life, and that the life of religion is to do 
good," and that to shun evils as sins is to do good ; what is the 
example so frequently set by even venerable and deservedly 
esteemed members of our New Church organizations ? Is it such 
as will command the respect of this large class of our citizens 



^IQ FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

who totaHy shun the evils we are considering? If these men to 
whom we may best appeal, judge the doctrines offered for their 
acceptance by the teaching and example of those \yho hold and 
advocate them, will they not be repelled by the consciousness 
that instead of advancing to a higher plane of life in the New 
Church, they will be abandoning good for evil, and descending 
to a lower plane ? The teaching of men who justify, and thus 
encourage the use of intoxicating drinks can never command the 
the respect of total abstinence men and women. The Chin*ch 
will not grow as she should till she is purged from the old leaven \ 

Doubdess, many remember the anecdote which was told of a 
prominent member of 9, Church, who met his pastor, as he was 
about entering the pulpit, and, whispering in his ear, said : 
"Be very careful and not say anything in your sennon about the 

n^anufacturing, sale, and use of intoxicating drinks, for Mr. , 

the distiller, who contributes largely to the support of our Church, 
I see is present." "Well," replied the clergyman, "what shall I 
preach about, if I may not speak of such an evil?" "Why," 
replied the member, "preach about anything — ^anything else — 
preach about the Mormons; there is not a single Mormon in 
our congregation." 

But preaching which purposely shuns the habitual evils of life, 
such as the selling and using of intoxicating drinks and tobacco, 
and of tight-lacing — evils which are so fearful in their consequences 
as to lessen the vitality of our race, and to impair the health, and 
even to destroy the lives of men, women, and innocent children — 
does not to-day command the respect of this vast multitude of 
intelligent men and women, who, belonging to no Church, are 
shunning these evils. Evils in our day are brought to light and 
made more clearly manifest than they have been in past ages, 
and intelligent men, who would be likely to receive the doctrines 
of the New Church, see them when properly presented by preach- 
ing, and respect those who shun themjn their lives. 

Herein, it seems to the writer, lies the power of the Methodist 
Church among those outside of Church organizations, and the 
reason why it has made such progress in the world. It has been 



WOMEI^ OF TH^ 'm-W CHT^eH. ? 1 1 

foremost in denouncing evil§^ and active in every great reform 
movement. It gave forth no uncert^n §ound as to that " sum of 
all villainies," humai^ slavery, and it was a power in the land for 
good in the contest that resulted in its final overthrow. In re^ 
gard to the terrible evil of intesvperance, the Methodist Conference 
fearlessly declares as abav^ that "Th^ Church pf Christ is largejy 
responsible " for all of the resulting waste of money, and healthy 
and life ; "for the Master has said to His Churchy * Ye are the 
light of the wojld, ye are the salt of the earth.' " 

As to the use of tobacco, the testimony of the Methodist Church 
is almost unanimously against it, and it has not feared to grapple 
with the injurious and destructive habits of women, to point then> 
out, and to call upon its members to shun them. If it has some-r 
times denounced innocent and useful amusementSj^ and harmless 
forms of dress, we should remember that most of it^ menibers are 
living only in the dawning light of the New Jerusalem, and do not 
even recognize the source from which the light of this new age is 
coming ; but we know that those who strive to live in accordance 
with the truths which they already see, are, as a rule, the first to 
recognize other truths when they are presented i consequently, a^ 
might be expected, we have good evidence that the light of the 
New Jerusalem is permeating this Church rapidly. There are 
several other Churches not far behind the Methodist- Episcopal 
Church in their condemnation of the drinking of intoxicating wine } 
and, consequently, they are becoming arks qf safety against the^ 
flood of drunkenness, and a host of other evils intimately con-t 
nected with wine and whisky-drinking. Is it strange that fathers 
and mothers who love their children, and care for their future 
happiness and welfare, hesitate before leaving a Church, where 
they are taught by the pulpit and press, and by the precepts and 
example of its members, to shun the use of intoxicating wine—? 
to say nothing of whisky — for the purpose of joining a Church 
which, by its pulpit and its press, is generally, either silent, or 
justifying the use of this fearfully poisonous and destructive drink ; 
and whose members, even to its clergy, so frequendy set an exam- 
ple to the young by openly using it ? 



212 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

A recent writer says truly that, " Entire abstinence insures 
safety ; nothing else can. It is a great act to reclaim a drinking 
man, but how much greater to keep a young man from the use of 
intoxicating drinks.** 

But, to return to the subject of the writer's first attendance at a 
New Church "sociable" over thirty years ago, the clergyman and 
such of his congregation as desired were holding meetings on 
Sunday afternoons, for the purpose of reading and conversing 
about the new doctrines. When fermented wine was presented at 
the "sociable," as already stated, the writer and his business partner 
requested that the subject of intoxicating wine should be brought 
up and considered at the next meeting: to which proposition 
the clergyman consented. We had read the Writings of Sweden- 
borg, at that time, only to a very limited extent ; but we could not 
believe it was possible, that the beautiful and rational writings 
we had been reading, could advocate and justify the drinking of 
intoxicating drinks, or in any way countenance their use. 

In the discussion at our Sunday afternoon meeting, we pre- 
sented the scientific aspect of the question, bringing evidence that 
fermented wine is a pwDison, every way injurious and destructive 
when used as a beverage ; and we called attention to the fearful 
consequences which had resulted to our race from its use, both 
physically and spiritually, and to the testimony of the Word of 
the Lord as to its pernicious character. We were met by the 
clergyman with the comparisons found in the Writings of Sweden- 
borg, which we have considered in a previous chapter, and by 
assumptions, and arguments based thereon, which we have also 
considered in the preceding pages. Neither party was satisfied 
by the result of the afternoon's discussion, and neither was 
convinced, consequently we adjourned the further considera- 
tion of the subject to the next Sabbath afternoon. In the 
meantime, our reverend friend prepared a sermon which he 
preached in the forenoon, in which he earnestly endeavored to 
sustain his views, and in which he took the ground that alcohol 
was the result of the influx from the celestial angels, angels of the 
highest heaven, down into the juice of the grape, moving and 



' WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 213 

separating and precipitating "its earth-born impurities." We 
were not idle during the week, and providentially we obtained a 
copy of Swedenborg^s work on " The Diyine Love and Wisdom," 
and found the chapter treating of good and evil uses ; where we 
saw that all things which hurt and kill men, all poisonous substances 
which injure men, were not created by the Lord, but that they 
derive their life from hell. So that when we came together on 
the Sabbath afternoon to discuss the question, we took the ground 
that alcohol was produced by the influx from devils of the lowest 
hell — ^well, the reader will readily understand that there was a 
slight difference betwen the views of the clergyman and of his 
novitiate laymen, and the discussion was an earnest one, the 
reader may rest assured ; and at its close, it was not the present 
writer who was anxious to drop the question. We know we did 
not convince our reverend friend, for in a communication 
recentiy received, he still talks about the "earth-born impuri- 
ties," as if the cultivated and sweet grape had, like many fallen 
and was impure. The cultivated grape, as we understand it, is 
beyond a question a " good gift of God," and has no impurities ; 
for with the exception of the seeds and skin, it contains nothing 
but what is useful to sustain, nourish, and build up the body of 
man. There is, so far as we know, no other vegetable fluid which 
so perfectly contains all the constituents required to nourish the 
human body as unfermented wine, and it is for this reason that 
it has a similar signification to that of blood ; whereas, chemistry 
demonstrates that fermented wine, with the exception of a portion 
of the sugar, and even this is not always present, contains few, if 
any, of the valuable vegetable compounds, which were organized 
for the sustenance of man, in the fruit of the vine, which have 
not been either entirely or partially changed in the direction of 
decay ; and we have in their stead, resulting from the destruction 
of the gluten and sugar, alcohol, the most pernicious poison known 
to, or used by, man. It would seem that the great change which is 
wrought upon the pure grape juice by leaven, should satisfy 
every New Churchman that fermented wine is not suitable for a 
drink or for sacramental purposes. The Church of the New 



Jerusalem using leavened wine in the most Holy Supper ! Only 
think of it, dear reader. Is it strange that this most useful and 
beneficial ordinance is not more regularly attended by the mem- 
bers of our societies ? 

The Passover was one of the representatives which our Lord 
did not abrogate. From the whole of the Jewish representative 
worship these two, Baptism and the Most Holy Supper, were 
passed over into the first Christian Church ; and then con- 
tinued into the New and Everlasting Church now being built up. 
"Of all those representatives the Lord retained but two, which 
• were to contain in one complex whatever relatdd to the internal 
Church. These two are Baptism instead of washings, and the 
Holy Supper instead of the lamb which was sacrificed every day, 
and particularly at the feast of the Passover." (T. C. R. 670.) 

It will be seen, then, that the Holy Supper was wholly represent- 
ative and correspondential, and that the correspondences which 
pertained to the Jewish Passover, so far as leaven which alwa)te 
has an evil signification is concerned, belong to this in evety 
particular. 

We know that in the Passover everything leavened was strictly 
prohibited, and as we have seen in preceding chapters, we have 
every reason to suppose that the Lord took the Passover cup 
when He instituted the Holy Supper, and consequently that it 
was unfermented wine which He styled the fruit of the vine. 
The following is Swedenborg*s formula for preparing bread for 
the Holy Supper : 

"That in the Holy Supper, bread (which is there fine flour mixed with oil) 
and wine signify love and faith, thus the all of worship." (A. C 4581.) 

There is no leaven here, and nothing leavened, for Swedenborg 
draws the above from the meat offerings and drink offerings de- 
scribed in Leviticus xxiii. and Numbers xv. Will our brethren 
of the New Jerusalem Magazine please note this ? Swedenborg, 
in speaking of our Lord's remarks after He had instituted the 
Holy Supper, says : " Good from truth and truth from good, 
whereby the intellectual principle is made new, or the man is 



WOMEa»T W THE NEW CHURCH. iiS 

made spiritual, is signiiied by the fruit of tiie vine ; the appropri- 
ation thereof is signified by drinking. To drink denotes to ap- 
propriate, and is predicated of truth. That this is not done fulfy 
but in the other life, is signified by, 'until that day when I shall 
drink it new with you in My Father's kingdom.' That the 
fruit of the vine does not mean must or wine {_non mustum nee 
vinum\ but somewhat heavenly of the Lord's kingdom, is 
very manifest." (A. C. 5 113.) It is perfectly clear from the 
above that Swedenborg did not understand that the material wine 
which the Lord and His disciples had been using when He in- 
stituted the Holy Supper was fermented wine. It is certain that 
He had in mind unfermented wine by his using the terms must or 
wine. So that if we accept Swedenborg as authority as to the 
kind of wine used by the Lord and His disciples in this Holy 
Ordinance, there is no doubt but that they used unfermented 
wine. 

Why should we not follow the Lord's example, and use 
unfermented wine instead of fermented or leavened wine? 
Why should we persist in using an intoxicating wine whidi 
will cause stupor, drunkenness, insanity, disease and death, and 
which we know, according to the philosophy of the Church, 
has its origin from hell» and which Swedenborg directly compares 
to falses from evil, as we have seen? (A. E. 1035.) Can we 
imagine it possible, that Swedenborg would have compared^ 
wine which is suitable for use in the most Holy Supper to the 
worst kind of falses — falses from evil? Please remember that he 
gives us no chance to doubt as to the kind of wine to which he 
refers in this comparison ; it is the wine that causeth drunken- 
ness. Is it possible that the New Church can prosper while it 
uses such a wine in this most Holy Ordinance, and while many 
of its preachers, writers, and members justify and advocate its 
use as a beverage, and set the example of using it? Is it not 
time that we of the New Jerusalem Church "put a difference 
between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean"? 
"Do not drink wine^ nor drink that maketh drunken." — Lev. x. 
8, 9. (A. C. 1072.) 



. 2l6 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND I 

The Writings tell us that, " To prevent also the celestial princi- 
pie of the Lord, which is the Lord's proprium^ and which alone 
is celestial and holy, being commixed with man's proprium which 
is profane, in any representative right, they were enjoined not to 
sacrifice or offer the blood of the sacrifice on what was leavened 
(Ex. xxiii. i8 ; xxxiv. 25), what was leavened signifying what 
was corrupt and defiled." (A. C. looi.) "Whereas, the con- 
. junction of the Lord with mankind is effected by love and charity, 
and faith thence, those celestial and spiritual things were repre- 
sented by the unleavened bread, which was to be eaten on the 
days of the Passover, and it was to prevent the defilement of those 
things by anything profane, that what was fermented was so 
severely prohibited, that they who ate it should be cut off; for 
they who profane things celestial and spiritual must needs 
perish." (A. C. 2342.) 

How wonderfully clear the science of correspondences makes 
this entire subject. "The false," says Swedenborg, "does not 
accord with good, but destroys good, for the false is of evil, and 
truth is of good." (A. C. 7909.) 

"Leavfen denotes the false," we are told by Swedenborg. (A. 
C. 7906.) And as good in truth, which nourishes and gives sub- 
stance to the regenerating spirit of man, is destroyed by the false, 
if man imbibes and appropriates the false ; so leaven in its action 
on unfermented wine, to the extent that fermentation proceeds, 
perverts, destroys, separates, or precipitates everything which nour- 
ishes the material body of man as good does his spirit. It destroys 
the gluten, the albumen, the sugar, the phosphorus, the maUc acid, 
bitartrate of potash, and the tartrate of lime, which give substance 
to the wine, and which cause it, when boiled, to form a rich, thick 
syrup, and if boiled a sufficient length of time, a comparatively solid 
body, capable of being restored to its original integrity by the addi- 
tion of water. You can get no rich syrup, and little or no valuable 
solid body of food substance from what is regarded as good, well- 
fermented wine ; for the bread portion which nourishes the material 
body of man as good in truth does his spiritual body, has been 
mostly destroyed by leaven. Surely, an intelligent New Church- 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 317 

man need not go beyond the clear correspondences in this case to 
be satisfied that fermented wine is in no way a suitable article for 
any one to imbibe, or to be used as sacramental wine. If any one 
is not satisfied, he has only to contrast the different action of 
unfermented and fermented wine upon the body and mind of 
man. The former nourishes and builds up the body, without any 
unnatural excitement ; the sweet, which corresponds to spiritual 
delights, makes glad the heart of man ; it creates no unnatural 
appetite, and therefore does not require to be taken in increased 
quantities to satisfy the appetite for it ; it causes no disease pecu- 
liar to itself, even when taken in excess — no disease which any 
other healthy article taken in excess might not cause. 

We scarce need repeat how totally different from all this is the 
action of fermented wine. It gives comparatively littie nourish- 
ment to the human body, for most of its nourishing portion has been 
destroyed. It causes the most intense excitements-even to in- 
sanity — and we all know of the infernal delights which it excites ; of 
the perverted appetite which is not satisfied, as in the case of 
healthy articles, with a regular supply, but demands an increase 
until drunkenness or other forms of disease ensue. We are all fami- 
liar with the fearful diseases which it causes — ^the drunkenness, 
insanity, delirium tremens^ gout, etc. Surely, we must lay aside 
our common sense, and close our eyes, ears, and nostrils to what 
we see, hear and smell around us, before we can even begin to 
justify the use of fermented wine, for any purpose, except as a 
medicine, as we use other poisons. 

New Churchmen, who have erroneously thought the Word 
favored moderate drinking of fermented wine as innocent and 
useful may be aided in accepting the truth upon this subject, by 
reflecting that while Christendom has for eighteen hundred year 
believed the Word taught there were no marriages in heaven 
Swedenborg shows that the Word really teaches that there are 
marriages in heaven. The change from what has been accepted 
as the teaching of the Word to its real teaching is, to say the 
least, not as great in the case of wine as in that of marriage, for a 
patient and careful examination of the letter of the Sacred Scrip- 



2^1 8 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

tures in the original languages in which they were written, has 
satisfied many of the ablest scholars of the age, and among them 
the late Professor George Bush, that the good wine of the Word, 
which is a blessing is always unfefmented wine, and never fer- 
mented wine, as we have abundantly shown in preceding pages. 

A writer in the Ntiv Jerusalem Magazine, in criticizing one of 
the editorials which has. been noticed in this work, says : 

" Pharaoh's butler, in his dream, took the grapes and pressed 
them into Pharaoh's cup, and gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand. 
Liquor thus obtained and drank could not be fermented ; yet in 
the A. C. 5120, it is regarded as wine, and in the early part of 
the number it is so cdled. 

" When treating of the first-fruits which were to be offered to 
the Lord, Swedenborg says (A. C. 9223) : ' The first-fruits of the 
vintage were the first-fruits of wine, of must, and of oil.' Wine, 
here, certainly excludes unfermented grape juice. But a little 
further on he says : ' By the first-fruits of corn and wine in this 
verse, -are .meant all the first-fruits . of. the harvest and vintage 
ju^t now spoken of above.' Here wine most certainly includes 
all the meaning of j unne and must in the forrner sentence. It 
proves^ also, that whenever he speaks of the first-fruits of wine, 
he means the term to include all forms of grape juice, unless 
other terms are used," 

The above writer, in the sentence which has been placed in 
italics, makes an admission which, facts did not require him to 
m^e, and his construction is directly contradicted by Sweden- 
borg inthe next quotation which Jie makes, and the writer seems 
to be aware of his mistake, but apparently he does not see how 
he can correct it. As we, have seen, fermented wine, or wine 
polluted by ferment, is never the fruit of the viptage, but is pro- 
duced by leaven or ferment, whereas wine which resulted from 
boiling the sweet, must until it would keep, as was ?o generally 
practised by the ancients as we have seen, was in every respect 
the fruit of the vintage, for.it contained nothing but what was pro- 
duced by die vine ; it was strictly unfermented wine — and apiong 
the first-f.uits of the vintage, for it was boiled before fermentation 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. ^19 

had commenced, and, as we have seen, it was the wine/^zr excel- 
lence oi the ancients. 

The Rev. C. H. Fowler, in his excellent work on " The Wines 
of the Bible," says ; • 

" Let me give you for a moment an inside look. Here is a 
young man, gentle, cultured, with his nerves on the surface and 
his heart in his hand and his soul in his eye, pushes within the 
reach of this great charmer. It may be in your house on New 
Year's day he takes his first taste. He finds that that did not 
kill him ; he tries it again ; he is pressed with work ; he drinks 
to strengthen himself, and soon the old story is repeated over in 
his case — friendless, homeless, ragged, blear-eyed, bloated, 
oozing, staggering, creaking in every joint, covered with filth, 
making his way down to death. That is one process. There is 
an army of nearly two millions of cases like this. Nearly one 
hundred thousand annually drop into a drunkard's grave. But 
that is not all. Go to that home ; what is the process there ? 
The wife is as gentle as any woman in the land, trained with 
the utmost care, never has known what it is to feel the pressure 
of any need, goes out into that home ; soon she finds that there 
is a shadow by the door. She shudders ; she is anxious. Late 
hours when the husband comes home alarm her; she smells 
his breath ; she misses the accustomed luxuries ; ornaments 
cease to come in, the old ornaments by and by move out; the 
spoons are sold and gone ; the forks follow ; one article after 
another vanishes ; the Bible goes, the fence is broken down, the 
windows are broken out, the gate falls off, the sidewalk is torn 
up — it is shabby and wretched ; then somebody else wants even 
this house, and the one in the alley is cheaper, and they move 
into the alley. Now go in. No furniture but a bench ; no fire, 
and it is winter, and the children are huddled together trying to 
keep warm. The father comes in only half- drunk, mad for 
more Hquor ; abuses the woman he had sworn to protect ; the 
children cower in the corner, and the last words they hear are 
the oaths of their father, and the last sight they see is the pale 
and patient face of the rriother. Her friends have left her long 



220 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

ago, lost sight of her ; she has dropped out of social life ; she 
has almost forgotten the girls she knew when she was a girl ; 
there she is ! In the mom the father is gone, and the children 
see her cold face clotted with her blood. That is the work of 
this monster. 

" You may take any one of the great army of haggard women that 
groan and stagger on without hope under the load of shame and 
ii^ the grip of perpetual want ; or any one of the great multitude 
of children worse than orphans, inheriting a bondage of disease 
and corruption, bred in alleys, dandled in the lap of sin, trained 
to crime, and doomed to ignorance and infamy ; you may take 
any one of these human tatters, torn loose from all social re- 
straints and left to flutter in the gales of passion and bum in the 
fires of delirium, and I will stake this case for the condemnation 
of this hoary infinite evil at the bar of eternal justice upon a 
single sigh or sob from any one of this great host of victims. 
If sentence against this monster was not instantaneous and over- 
whelming in the light of human thought, the good Christ would 
be shut up to open and almighty war for the capture and puri- 
fication of the eternal throne. It is not thinkable that God can 
either approve these crimes or stand idly by in this great conflict.'* 

We appeal to you, dear brethren and sisters of the New 
Church, who see the tmth upon this subject, to arise and let your 
light shine ; to combine or organize and exert your utmost power, 
looking to the Lord for strength and wisdom, to overthrow this 
fearful evil, which is destroying the bright prospects of the young, 
and making so many homes desolate, and destroying the germs 
of heavenly life in so many souls. 

It is surely high time that the members of the New Church 
in this country should follow the example of their brethren in 
Great Britain, and muster their forces for a conflict with the 
fearfiil evil of wine, beer, and whisky-drinking. Our people 
here should not be behind the New Church people in England 
and Scotland in perceiving this evil, and desiring to rid the New 
Church of all respbnsibility for its continuance among us. Many 
believe, with the writer, that the Word of the Lord, the writings 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 22 j 

of the Church, and the laws of natural life and health all clearly 
require them to abstain themselves, and to induce and encourage 
others to abstain from intoxicating drinks, and this duty they are 
ready to perform if a way t© it is opened to them. A scattered 
multitude cannot drive from its citadel an enemy so strongly for- 
tified by social custom, and sustained by confirmed habit, as this 
is. For successful opposition to this giant evil, both silent con- 
viction and isolated action will continue to be insufficient. 

What they have done in Great Britain we need to do here — 
that is, to organize our Bands of Hope in our Churches, and then 
our General Conference ; and we especially need to interest 
our young people in this great work of the Church, and thus, 
strive to lead them into a life of shunning evils as sins against 
the Lord, and to labor for the welfare of others. This work, 
in order to be made fully successful, must be a work of the 
New Church. It will help our young people to remain in the 
Church, by giving them something to do, not only for those in 
the Church, but also for those around them outside of the Church ; 
and thus by showing them that the Church is a living, working 
organ i2;ation, and that it will save many of them and others from 
ruin, it will lead them to feel that the Church is really an ark of 
safety. 

We also need that our periodicals should be renovated, so that 
tliey can enter our homes laden with the truths of our Lord's 
New Church, without countenancing, or excusing or encouraging 
the use of intoxicating drinks ; and so that they will assail, without 
fear or favor, the various- dreadful evils which are both physically 
and spiritually so destructive to the human race, instead of 
being either silent or directly opposing needed reforms. Such 
periodicals would command the respect of the mxiltitude of men 
and women, who, belonging to no Church organization, are 
striving to shun such evils, and favorably impress them toward 
the new doctrines. Such periodicals would enter the drunkard's 
home, conveying wholesome words of warning to the evil-doer, 
and of hope to the worse than widowed wife and fatherless chil- 
dren, encouraging them to bear their great sorro^y — ^unsurpassed 



222 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

by any on earth — ^with Christian patience and fortitude, and to 
look to the Lord for help and strength. But send a paper or 
periodical which either advocates, or excuses and justifies, and 
thereby encourages the use of fermented wines and other drinks 
of an intoxicating nature, how different the result; only the 
tippler and confirmed drunkard in the family will be attracted to 
such a paper, and to the Church whose doctrines it advocates. 
To the poor, broken-hearted, crushed mother, who is suffering 
meiitally and physically, as only the wife of a drunkard can 
suffer, and who is struggling for life, and to feed and clothe her 
half-starved and ragged children, what consolation or encourage- 
ment does it give to such a needy one, as she reads and per- 
ceives that the periodical encourages her children to follow 
in the footsteps of their drunken father, by countenancing the 
drinking of fermented wines and liquors — temperately^ of course ? 
That which may encourage her children may encourage yours 
and mine, dear reader. Do you feel like taking such a fearful 
responsibility, kind parent? 

We need also that our periodicals should, first of all, teach men, 
women and children what are the individual evils which are so 
destructive and injurious to our race, both physically and spiritu- 
ally, and then to teach them to shun such evils as sins against 
God, and that to shun evils as sins against God is to do good ; 
it does good by placing the Lord always before us, and thus 
developing a sense of reverence for His name. To shun the 
use of the drunkard's cup, tobacco, opium, the habit of tight- 
dressing, idleness, and the like manifold evils does good by pre- 
serving ourselves free from the physical and mental suffering and 
disease which such indulgences and habits are capable of causing, 
and thereby prolonging our lives and our sphere of usefulness 
while we are in this world, and increasing our capacity and oppor- 
tunity for good works. To shun such eyils does even more good 
by the excellent example it sets before others, especially to chil- 
dren and young men and maidens. 

Outside of the surrounding churches of to-day is a vast multi- 
tude in a comparatively Gentjle ?tate, as the writer has frequentiy 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 223 

intimated, and here it would seem is our field for missionary labor, 
and it is " white and ready for the harvest.'* The printed page, 
especially in the form of a periodical, is an efficient, cheap, and 
quiet missionary, and it excites little combat and jealousy. If 
our periodicals were made interesting by items of news, discovery, 
the arts, and especially if they were to lead, as they shouW, to 
interest all in the great reforms of the new age, by presenting 
spiritual ipotives, as well as natural, they would command the ^ 
respect and support of many who do not now belong to the New 
Church ; and primarily, if they contained the choice extracts from 
the Writings of Swedenborg, the pitRy comments of many of the 
collateral writings of the Church, and if they were to avoid all 
merely speculative articles upon impracticable subjects, such per- 
iodicals would quickly lead many to attend our Churches, and to 
read the Writings of Swedenborg, and thus come into the light of 
the New Jerusalem. 

Has the Church any more important aims than these, alike to 
promulgate her doctrines, and to protect her own members and 
the young people from the direful evils which constantly sur- 
round them? What better plan can be adopted, or one more 
likely to attract the attention of those around us, who are striving 
to shun evils, and who inwardly desire to live a pure and good 
life, and are therefore good ground for the seedsman ? 

Our periodicals should be worthy of our glorious cause, and a 
credit to the New Church now being built up, by leading in every 
good work. A true faith is important, but a good, useful and 
orderly life is surely not less necessary. The two must be 
united, and such principles should be upheld strongly and un- 
compromisingly by our periodicals, for their existence on any 
other foundation will surely bring them to a fall, sooner or later, 
and deservedly so, for religion is of the Life. Our teachers and 
writers, and especially our periodicals, in order that they may com- 
mand the respect of the men of the incoming age, must point out 
the individual evils which are, so injurious and destructive to our 
race, openly proclaim that they are evils, and strive to lead men 
to shun them as sins against God. A New Church periodical 



2 24 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

which fails to do this, at this day, has no legitimate excuse for a 
continued existence ; and especially some of our periodicals must 
cease to lend aid and comfort to the manufacturers, sellers, and 
drinkers of intoxicating liquors, or. they need not expect to receive 
the patronage of the earnest men and women of the Church of 
the New Jerusalem much longer. 

The Rev. Newman HaH, D. D., of London, gives statistics 
which show that, from the use of intoxicating drinks, ten thousand 
members are lost to the Christian Churches every year. 

We need not expect to overcome such a fearful evil as wine- 
drinking in a community without a contest ; for in the individual 
man, who has acquired a taste for this seductive fluid, it is a life- 
and-death struggle, and, if he escapes from a drunkard's grave, it 
is by a life-long warfare that he succeeds. 

Then, again, we have to remember, as the Rev. Dr. Samson 
says : that, "when any change in popular customs is proposed, 
the suggestion for reform implies, first, that tho common opinion 
is erroneous ; second, that interests involved are imperiled ; and, 
third, that conduct before unchallenged is censured. This three- 
fold difficulty is to be met and overcome ; pride of intellectual 
oversight ; sacrifice of personal interest ; and admission of faults 
in practice. It is easy to make, in general, the admission that 
no rpind can have taken in the whole field of truth ; that no 
man is wholly free from the promptings of self-interest; and 
that no human being was ever perfect in life. It is hard, how- 
ever, to bring one's self up to the point where without prejudice, 
selfishness or preference, the rule of newly discovered truth, duty 
and Christian humility can be made dominant. If this be hard 
to attain in minds specially thoughtful and conscientious, it is yet 
harder to bring a community, or an age, up to the full spirit of 
reform. There has never been a great reform in social habits, in 
politics, in morals, or in religion^ that has not required many 
generations to make the new view and new life thorough and 
pervasive." ^ 

If we laymen consider how these things cannot help but 
influence the clergy, we shall be kept from two mistakes — from 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 225 

expecting too much assistance from them in this struggle against 
the fearful evil of wine and whisky-drinking, and consequent 
intemperance, and also from unjust and harsh criticism concern- 
ing them. Some are in ignorance, because they are still bound 
in the forms, ceremonies and falsities of a consummated Church, 
so that they see not the light of the New Jerusalem that shines 
around them; others are reading and pondering,. and opening 
their hearts to these great truths ; and a few, we are happy to 
say, are in full accord with us in helping on this needful reform, 
both by their example and teaching ; and the number of these 
is sure to increase. 

We should remember, too, that great reforms have rarely com- 
menced with the clergy, for they are generally conservative and 
wedded to prevailing views, if not confirmed therein. Abraham, 
the called-of-the-Lord, was not a clergyman. The disciples, who 
followed the Lord when on earth, were not chosen from the 
Jewish priesthood. Emanuel Swedenborg, the herald of the New 
Dispensation from Gk)d to man, was not chosen from the Chris- 
tian priesthood. Wilberforce and Garrison, the leaders of the army 
of freedom against slavery, were not clergymen. Moses, the chosen 
leader of the children of Israel, was not a clergyman ; but Aaron, 
whom Moses withstood, and whose idolatrous calf he ground to 
pieces, was already chosen the High Priest of the Church ; yet it 
was only as Aaron and Hur held up the hands of Moses that Israel 
was able to overcome Amalek (Ex. xvii. 12), and the priests bear- 
ing the Ark entered first of all into the Promised Land (Josh. iii. 
13). So that even though the clergy may not lead, at first, in the 
warfare against such external evils as we have been considering, 
yet we require their support, and in due time we shall have it. It 
is their province to lead in good works and minister in holy ordi- 
nances, and so we hope and believe it will be with our own ministers 
whom we honor and love for the sake of their office. When the 
battle has fairly begun, and the clergy, seeing the truth and freed 
firom their old prejudices, shall have taken their proper place among 
the leaders of the Lord's host in its conflicts with those evils which 
are destroying the bodies and souls of men ; then, then, indeed, the 



f .26 FINAL APPEAL TO THE MEN AND 

victory will be assured. Then the Church of God, a well-marshalled 
army, fighting in solid phalanx on the side of truth and love, of 
justice and mercy, of temperance in all good uses. and total absti- 
nence from all evil uses, shall go on from victory to victory, till the 
drinking of fermented wine and whisky is forever banished from 
tjie Church and the world. 

No man or soldier ever enlisted in a more noble or more 
worthy cause than this. The enslavement of man by his fellow- 
man is bad enough, but it is only natural slavery after fill, for the 
slave is free to will and to think right ; and if he is so restrained 
that he cannot always, do what he believes to be right, it is not his 
fault. His understanding may be unclouded l)y his bondage, 
and his will left free ; but oh ! how different from all this, how 
much more fearful is the slavery which results from the use of 
intoxicating drinks, where the strongest will is powerless and the 
clearest intellect is clouded until the truth cannot be recognized, 
or if seen is denied. 

Go, kind reader, 2i§ the writer has done, to the bedside of men 
of naturally strong wills and clear intellects, as they are recover- 
ing from an attack of delirium iremens:, and behold the utter 
desolation of the poor slaves, and the despair with which they 
look forward to the future, then answer if- African slavery was not 
tame when compared with the wild, mad slavery which results 
fi'om the indulgence of fermented liquors* A very, intelligent 
man whom the writer had just attended during an attack of this 
disease, was asked to give a history of his connection with intoxi- 
cating drinks. .He replied that when a young man he found that 
he was getting too fond of such stimulants, and he resolved to 
abandon them forever, and for fifteen, years he never tasted them. 
In the meantime he married, and became the father of several 
children. One evening when he and his wife were visitmg some 
friends, the kdy of the house passed around some fermented 
wine, and invited him to take a glass. . " For the first time within 
fifteen years," he said, " I was seriously tempted to drink. I 
turned to my wife, and asked her if I should take a glass ; she 
replied that she did not think one glass would hurt me ; but that. 



WOMEN OF THE NEW CHURCH. 22 f 

one glasswas my ruin. My old appetite returned with renewed 
strength, and you know the result." Alas, poor man! The 
writer knew but too well the sad results which had flowed to him 
and. his distressed wife and children from that one glass of fer- 
mented wine, presented by a lady friend ; for during one attack of 
delirium tremens ^ in an attempt to escape from imaginary foes, 
he attempted to kill himself, by springing with' all of his strength 
and jamming his head against a door-frame, laying his scalp open 
for several inches ; and on another occasion he was insane for 
several weeks after an attack. Little did that lady dream of the 
dreadful injury she was doing her middle-aged guest by presenting 
him with a glass of wine ; little does any lady know of the harm 
she may do to any one, especially to the young, when she presents 
this seductive fluid to their lips.. Let us all remember the words 
of Holy Writ : ^* Woe to him that giveth his neighbor drink ; and 
puttest thy bottle to him." 

And now, dear brethren and sisters of the New Church, we 
have seen that. the Word of the Lord, as translated by Emanuel 
Swedenborg, teaches that, a "drink that maketh drunken" is 
unholy and unclean, and we know that fermented wine will cause 
drunkenness ; we are taught in the writings of the Church that 
all substances which are poisonous and will harm and kill men, 
have their origin from hell, and we know that fermented wine 
has in all ages done this and is doing it to-day all around us ; and 
Swedenborg actually compares such wine as t:auses drunkenness 
to falses from evil, as we have seen ; and even the Academy of 
the New Church claims (see Words for the New Churchy vol. VII. 
page 133) tQ have seen that it consequently corresponds to falses 
from evil, which is undoubtedly correct, fqr it produces natural 
drunkenness and insanity, as falses from evil do spiritual drunken- 
ness and insanity ; it must therefore correspond tp such falses. We 
are clearly taught by the sciences of this day that the use of fer- 
mented wine is not only entirely unnecessary during health, but 
also that it tends to pollute, disease, and destroy the material body, 
and to cause the most fearful mental perversions, not unfrequently 
even to insanity ; knowing all this, as many of us certainly do, 



228 FINAL APPEAL TO THE NEW CHURCH. 

can we consistently— conscientiously if you please — continue to 
partake of leavened or fermented wine in the most holy ordinance 
of the Lord's Supper ? Some of us we know have not unfre- 
quently felt that it was almost, if not quite, a profanation to par- 
take of such a fluid, and have even absented ourselves from the 
Lord's Table, for this reason. Now is such a course right, 
and have we done our duty ? Have we requested the societies 
to which we belong to furnish unfermented wine for such mem- 
bers as have conscientious scruples against using fermented wine ? 
If we have not done this, should we not do so before absent- 
ing ourselves from this most needed ordinance ? As members of 
societies, we have rights which our brethren are bound to respect ; 
and we should remember that they have rights which we are 
equally bound to respect. Those who conscientiously desire to 
use fermented wine should certainly have the privilege of doing 
so. The freedom we desire for ourselves we should cheerfully 
grant to others in the bonds of charity, for in no other way can 
unity be preserved in the. Church. "In certainty, unity ; in 
doubt, liberty ; in all things, charity." 

In concluding this work, the writer desires to repeat that it is 
his settled conviction that very little real abiding headway can be 
made against the present drinking habits, and the consequent 
drunkenness which exists around us, until fermented wine is ban- 
ished from the communion tables in our Churches ; for its pres- 
ence there, especially its exclusive presence, gives it character 
and credit everywhere where the influence of the Churches 
which use it is fejLt The use of fermented wine as communion 
wine is a fearful evil and source of "woe** to the New Church, a 
cruel injury to some of its members, an injustice to others, a temp- 
tation to the young, and a stumbling-block to multitudes who 
otherwise might be attracted to the Church by our beautiful and 
rational doctrines, which have descended from the Lord out of 
heaven to purify, heal, and bless the nations of the earth. Let 
us never rest until this evil is put away from the Church. 




THE BIBLE WINE QUESTION. 

— Kl 

The National Temperance Society has published a variety of Books and 
Tracts upon the Wine Question, by some of the ablest writers in the world. 
The investigation clearly shows the existence of two kinds of wine, the 
fermented and unfermented, and presents numerous and convincing authori- 
ties. The following is a list : — 

THE DIVINE LAW AS TO WINES. i2mo. 456 pp. By 
GEORdK W. Samson, D. D., former President of Columbian 
University, Washington, D.C $1 25 

TEMPERANCE BIBLE COMMENTARY. By Dr. F. R. Lees and 

Rev. Dawson Burns . . . . . . . 2 50 

BIBLE WINES; Or, the Laws of Fermentation, and Wines of 
THE Ancients. i2mo. 139 pp. By Rev. Wm. Patton, D. D. 
Paper, 25 cents; cloth 60 

THE TEXT-BOOK OF TEMPERANCE. By Dr. F. R. Lees, 

F. S. A. Paper 50 cents; cloth . . . . . i 25 

GOSPEL TEMPERANCE. i2mo. 177 pp. By Rev. J. M. Van 

Buren. Paper, 25 cents; cloth 60 

BIBLE RULE OF TEMPERANCE. i8mo. 206 pp. By Rev. 

George Duffield, D.D. . . . . . . . 50 

COMMUNION WINE; Or, Bible Temperance. 133 pp. By 

Rev. Wm. M. Thayer. Paper, 20 cents; cloth . . 50 

SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY AGAINST INTOXICATING WINE. 

By Rev. Wm. M. Ritchie, of Scotland. i8mo. 213 pp. . 50 

MODERATION VS. TOTAL ABSTINENCE ; Or, Dr. Crosby 

and His Reviewers . 25 

THE CHURCH AND TEMPERANCE. By John W. Mears, D. D. 10 

THE MORAL DUTY OF TOTAL ABSTINENCE. By Rev. T. 

L. Cuyler, D. D 10 

THE WINES OF THE BIBLE. By Rev. C. H. Fowler, D.D. 10 

WINE-DRINKING AND THE SCRIPTURES. By Professor 

Tayler Lewis, L L.D. i2mo. 21 pp 10 

THE NEW HOUSE aND ITS BATTLEMENT. By Rev. Joseph 

Cook. i2mo. 24 pp. 10 

UNFERMENTED WINE A FACT. By Norman Kerr, M.D., 

F. R. S. i2mo. 41 pp. ........ 10 

THE PLAGUES, ALCOHOLIC AND NARCOTIC! By Rev. T. 

De Witt Talmadge, D.D. i2mo. 32 pp. ... 10 

TEN LECTURES ON ALCOHOL. By B.. W. Richardson, M. D., 
of England, Author of "Twenty-one Historic Landmarks." 
" Temperance Lesson-Book," etc. Paper, 50 cents; cloth . i CX) 
Sent by mail, post paid, on receipt of price. 

Address J. N. STEARNS, Publishing Agent, 58 Reade St., New York. 






c 

i 



c 
c 



J. 









RETURN 
TO" 



CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT 

202 Main Library 




LOAN PERIOD 1 
HOME USE 


2 ; 


3 


4 


5 ( 


5 


ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 

R*n*walt and Rachorgct may b* mod* 4 days prior to th* iu» dot*. 

Beekt may b« Ronowod by calling 642-3405. 


DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 








^^iitmrsRm' 10 


m 










U.\'/;'. Of Cl^'jf:^ ny 


m 




APR 10 1994 






/'Vj.-rr;,: 


!-^' oi'-:: 









































ORM NO. DD6, 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
BERKELEY, CA 94720 




a BERKELEY LIBRARIES 







