1^' 



r^ 



t 



aN^? 



'bOO'K.WV^ 



On 



d,^- 



7- LVX 







.r-N. 



J 0,'^ iJ 'J 11 1 'J J' . ' ,f )'^=^ 



i^jioan^ttjjjiM/ 



^ 






1 M.M^iC 



^' 



^■\ lA k 



on 



V n 



r? 



/ 



PUBLISHED BY THE LADIES 

OF THE 

Saratoga Street Methodist Episcopal Church, E^st Boston, Mass. 




MARNO, PRINTER, 145 MERIDIAN ST., EAST BOSTON. 

-^- 1882. — -^ 



Only One Dollar ! 



I wish to call the attention of the Ladies of East 
Boston to the fact that this is one of the best Corsets 
mapufactured, it being made of material that is abso- 
lutely Unbreakable. Raw Hide is used in place of 
common horn bone, of which all other corsets are made. 



c5 



8=: 

S-i 







■-3 

I 

O 

3 

•-■- 

N 
CD 

•-* 

CO 



CO 

cy> 



Call for Bennett's Unbreakable, loo Bone, 
* Double-Side" Corsets, and take no other. 



§. W . lllllff, 



No. 33 CENTRAL SQUARE 



H. A. Hartley & Co 




At a Great 

Discount, 



NEW AND CHOICE STOCK. 

m, 9% m 1 103 WiiMagtei Si, 

BOSTON. 



c c c 



'•< ^'c I OirJ^'.^floUSEKEEPERS^ FrIEJTD. 

H^'~^^^^, y^r: ... ^ ^ 



•,c 



FLIHU EROTHEES, 

230 Washington Street. 

BOSTON. 

T. W. PLIHN. H. 3. FLIMN. 



OUR/; ,,,^. 

Housekeepers'" Friend 

AND BUSINESS DIRECTORY. 

_ — .^ 

(Published by the Ladies^ connected with the 
^^ Saratoga Street Jvl. E. Church, 
East (Boston. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend and Business Directory comes before 
the public, is to assist the procuring funds to pay the debt on our Par- 
sonage, which we hope to soon see accomplished. This publication 
contains a large number of receipts, which have been compiled with 
great care by a committee of ladies, who know the value of most of 
them by personal testing. Appearing in connection with the Fair 
to be held in Lyceum Hall, Oct. 24th, 25th, 36th, and 27th, we desire 
by this medium, to invite our friends and the public to attend that 
gathering, where they will find an attractive display of goods, and an 
entertainment each evening. 

We also take pleasure in recommending the business firms who 
have chosen this medium in which to advertise their wares, to the 
generous patronage of all. The thanks of the ladies they have so 
kindly assisted is most cheerfully extended, while the advertising 
agents will ever remember the uniform courtesy and patronage given 
them in their work. 

THE FAIR ' 

WILL OPEN IN LYCEUM HALL, 

Tuesday, October 24th, 

At 7 o'clock, and continue four evenings. 

ADMISSION TEN CENTS. 



r r '^ r r ,. *^ 



Our llousEKEEPERs' Friend. 



A. Gove & Son, 212' Border St. very best Family Coal 

Gravy for Roast Meats. 

Take the drippings from the pan, skim or pour off all the fat, 
thicken with browned flour salt, boil five minutes and add butter. 
Serve hot. 

Roast Turkey. 

A turkey weighing 12 pounds, roast 3 or 4 hours, according to 
age. Take 8 crackers pounded fine, pour over them sufficient boiling 
water to make it moderate thin, add 3 well beaten eggs, salt, pepper 
and sage to your taste, and butter the size of an egg. After washing 
the turkey, wipe the inside of the body dry, fill with dressing, and sew 
up the gashes, tie the wings and legs close to the body, and the neck 
back under the wing, rub the outside of thr fowl with fine salt, to 
season it, baste often. Serve with cranberry sauce. 

Roast Beef. 

Roast 5 pounds i hour, in a hot oven, baste with flour and butter 
every 20 minutes ; when nearly done, sprinkle with salt ; cook the meat 
20 minutes before putting the water in the pan (to brown the flour for 
gravy). 

R. F. G. 

Roast Lamb or Veal. 

Make a dressing as for fowl. Roast 5 pounds lamb 2 hours, 
baste frequently. Roast Veal, 5 pounds, 2 1-2 hours, baste often. 

Beef Tea. 

, Take 3-lbs. round steak, cut it up, put it in a stone jar, add 2 cof- 
fee cups cold water, stand the jar in a kettle of boiling water, cover 
the jar tightly, boil all day, strain, and after cold, skim off the fat, and 
warm the tea when needed ; if too strong for the patient, weaken with 
water, season to the taste. 

R. F. G. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 






w m K D r: 

y o P ^ p :r 
:::• '—^ (T) <^ 




Our Housekeeper's Freend. 



A. Gove L Son, 212 Border St., all Mnds Family Coal 

Beef Tea. 

One pound of fresh beef, soaked with half a pint of cold water 
over night ; when needed for use, heat it and add salt and pepper. 

Economical Beef. 

Cut 2 or 3 Lbs. of beef into pieces the size of an egg, put it into 
a small earthen pot, add salt, one teaspoonful of vinegar, one of 
sugar, and water to cover. Bake in the oven slowly three hours, and 
thicken it a little, when nearly ready to serve. Eaten with baked po- 
tatoes, it makes a nice dinner for washing or ironing day. 

A. G. W. 
Ox Tail Soup. 

Two ox- tails, a stalk of celery, one onion, two carrots, a little 
parsley, a smal! cup of pork. Cut the ox tails at the joints, slice the 
vegetables and mince the pork : put the pork in a stew pan when hot, 
add first the onions, when they begin to color add the ox tails, let 
them fry a short time, now cut them to the bone, that the juice may 
•run out in boiling; put both ox tails and fried onions into a soup 
kettle, with 4 quarts cold water, let them simmer for 4 hours, then 
add the other vegtables, with 3 cloves stuck in a little piece of 
onion, pepper and salt to the taste. As soon as the vegetables are 
well cooked, the soup is done, strain it, serve very hot. 

R. F. G. 
Vermicelli Soup. 

A kunckle of veal, break in small bits, cover well with cold 
water, add one heaping teaspoonful salt, boil till the meat is in 
shreds, and there are about 2 quarts of liquid ; strain and set away to 
cool. When ready for use let it come to a boil, add 1-3 cup of ver- 
micelli, salt to taste, boil 10 minutes, put i cup thin cream in tureen, 
pour in the soup, stir quickly and serve. 



Our Housekeeper's Friend. 




THE MOST 

EXTENSIVE 

STOCK 

OF 

CHOICE, 

SUBSTANTIAL, 

UNIQUE, 

AND 

PRACTICAL 

HOUSE, 

OFFICE, HALL, LODGE 

AND CHURCH 



FURNITURE 

Ever exhibited m this coimtr)', and 

Sold at Manufacturers' Prices. 



■CAN BE FOVNB AT- 



MANUFACTORY and SALESROOMS, 



Entrances, 48 Canal & 141 Friend St., BOSTON. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



A. Gove S, Son, 212 Border St., Best Franklin Coal. 

Tomato Soup. 

Two quarts meat stock, boil, add tablespoonful of flour to make 
it the consistency of cream, boil 20 minutes, strain, add i pint canned 
tomatoes (strained), butter the size of an egg, salt to taste, boil 5 
minutes and serve. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Two quarts meat stock, made by boiling once a w»ek all tiie 
bones and bits of meat, left from the table, that are useless for other 
purposes, of beef, mutton or fowl, put in a kettle with plenty of water, 
boil till the meat is reduced to shreds, strain, and set in a cool place. 
When ready for use, remove the fat, add one carrot (copped), one 
large turnip sliced in thin inch pieces, two onions sliced, two potatoes, 
a little cabbage if liked, boil one hour, salt and pepper to taste. 

How to Make Caramels or Burned Sugar for Color- 
ing Broth or Soup. 

Put into a porcelain sauce pan, half a pound of sugar, and a table- 
spoonful of water, stir it constantly over the fire, until it has a bright 
dark color, being very careful not to let it burn or blacken, then add 
tea cup of water, and a little salt, let it boil a few moments longer, 
cool and strain it, put it into a close corked bottle, and it is always 
ready for coloring soups. 

R. F. G. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



We shall be pleased to see the buyers of this book 
and th^ir friends at our office and wharf, 

178 Border St., 

CORNER OF CENTRAL SQUARE, 

East Boston, 

Where we can show them the very best qualities of 
SHAMOKIN, FRANKLIN, or free burning WHITE 
ASH COALS, which we will deliver free from dust or 
fine coal. You will find the above indispensable in ob- 
taining a good result from your recipes. 

Yours respectfully, 

J. ROBBINS & Co. 



lo Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



A. GOVE 4& SON, 212 Border Street, SliamoMn Coal. 

^ Baked Beans. 

Put I 1-3 pints beans into a 2 quart bean pot, fill it with water, let 
it stand over night, in the morning pour off the water, and cover 
the beans with fresh water, in which is mixed a scant tablespoonful of 
molasses, put 3-4 of a pound of pickled pork in the centre, leaving a 
quarter of an inch of pork above the beans (having first cut the rind 
of the pork in small squares on top), bake them all day or night, with 
a steady fire, without stirring the beans, add a cupful of hot water* 
every hour but the last two. Earthen pots with narrow mouths are 
made expressly for baking beans, a little cream is an improvement. 

R. F. G. 
Fried Potatoes. 

Slice them very thin in cold w^ater, afterwards dry them on a 
cloth, have the fat hot, throw them in, the moment they receive a deli- 
cate brown color, skim them out, and place on a sieve near the fire, 

sprinkle over salt, and serve in a hot dish. 

R. F. G. 

Shoo-Fly Potatoes. 

There is a machine which comes for the purpose of cutting shoo- 
fly potatoes, it costs ^3.50. The potatoes are cut in long strips, like 
macaroni, excepting that the sides are square instead of round, they 
are thrown into boiling lard, sprinkled with salt as soon as done, and 
served as a vegetable alone, or as a garnish around meat. 

FISH. 
Fresh Codfish with Egg Sauce. 

Chop 2 or 3 hard boiled eggs fine, put a lump of butter as large 
as an egg in a sauce pan on the fire, when melted add a little lemon 
juice and the chopped egg, and after stirring a little, turn it over the 
fish. Always put a fish in cold water, when it boils ; let a fish 
weighing 2 pounds, cook 2 or 3 minutes, one weighing 6 pounds, 6 or 
8 minutes. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 







The best. Place to Clothe Your 



IS AT THE ESTABLISHMENT OF 

UOPiliP ■§£§■ A m. 

131 to 137 WasMngton St., 



where the largest assortment can always be found at 
the VERY LOWEST PRICES. 

lEOFOLD mm I CO. 

Cor, Washington & Brattle Streets 

BOSTOH. 



w^B W(emmwt^mmtt 



12 Our Housekeepers' Friend. , 

A. GOVE & SOIT 212 Border St, all kinds of Wood. 
Stewed Lobsters. 

Cut the lobster in pieces about an inch square, place them in a 

stew pan, and over them pour a cup of water, put in butter size of an 

egg, pepper and salt to taste, mix also with it the green dressing of 

the lobster, and stir it lo minutes over the fire, just before taking it of 

off, add 2 wine-glasses of Port or Sherry wine ; let it scald, but not 

boil. 

Lobster Salad. 

Four eggs, i tablespoonful sugar, 2 of butter or oil, i of salt, 2 
of vinegar, i of mixed mustard. Beat the whites of the eggs separate- 
ly, and add last. Cook in a bowl, set on a kettle of water, stirring 
until it thickens. When cold add cream enough to make it as thin as 
boiled custard. To the chopped lobster and lettuce add a little salt, 
a very little red pepper, and a little vinegar. 

Lobster Salad. 

Four eggs, i tablepoonful sugar, 2 tablespoonful butter or oil, i 
tablespoonful salt, i tablespoonful mustard, 1-2 cup good vinegar, beat 
together, cook in a bowl, set in kettle of water, stirring until it thick- 
ens. One lettuce and i 1-2 lbs. lobster chopped fine, add red pepper 
and mix all together. 

H. H. P. 
Fried Oysters. 

Drain the oysters on a sieve, roll in cracker crumbs, and fry in 
boiling lard until a light brown. Have the dishes very hot. 

Fried Oysters. 

Select the largest, dip them in beaten eggs, and then in cracker 
crumbs. Fry in equal parts of butter and lard, until they are brown. 
They are good dipped in corn meal, instead of crumbs. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



13 




Trade Mark Begistered. 

THE GREAT RHEUMATIC REMEDY 

— AND— 

INSTANT PAIN BELIETEH!! 

— >IT IS ALSO THE GREATEST- 
INVENTION AND COMPOUND OF THE AGE, 

—FOR THE SPEEDY CUKE OF— 

Neuralgia, Pains in the Sides, Back or Joints, 

Sprains, Bruises, Stiffness of the Joints, and 

Contraction of the Cords and Muscles. 

The people praise it. The druggists sell and recoiDmend it. Doc 
tors prescribe and use it. Full direclioiiS on each bottle. Price, 25 cts. 
H. D. HUGGAN & CO., Chemists and Druggists, 28 Maverick Sq,. 
East Boston, sole Manufacturers and Proprietors. Weeks & Potter. 
360 Washington Street, and Geo. C. Goodwin & Co., 38 Hanover Street . 
Boston, Agents. 

A Letter of Great Interest to the Public. 

Allan Royal Mail Steamship, ApriJ 8, 1882. 
H. D. HUGGAN & CO., Chemists, East Boston, Mass., U.S.A. 

Dear Sirs : — I take the liberty of writing you in reference to your Compound Eel Oi' 
Liniment. After using it for a number of months constantly and perseveringly on per 
sistent cases of rheumatism, neuralgia, pains of the bones, etc., on sailors and othei 
members of the ship's crew exposed to the boisterous weather crossing the wcsten 
ocean, I can confidently recommend it to all who suffer from those affections, or who 
are liable to be affected with them on the least change of weather, and that the} 
should commence to use it whenever they feel the first twinge of pain, for it is thei 
that the disease can be caught and much suffering and s?eepless nights avoided. Tc 
my own knowledge it is in constant use now in all the large passenger ships crossing' 
the Atlantic, and the surgeons universally say that it is the best article in the market 
to-day for the diseases already enumerated. WILLIAM S. DONALD, M.D. 

Steamship Hibernian, April 8, 1882. (London University). 



14 OcjR Housekeepers' Friend. 

A. GOVE & SOIT, =" =""L??S Sf ='"' 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Sprinkle a buttered dish with cracker crumbs, then put in a layer 
of oysters, some bits of butter, a little pepper and a very Httle salt, and 
so on until the dish is full, leaving crumbs and butter on the top, pour 
over the top a little milk. Bake until of a light brown. 

Omelet. 

Three e^^gs, beat yolks with 1-2 cup milk and a Uttle salt, add 
whites well beaten Butter the spider well. Cook slowly and while 
cooking put little pieces of butter on top. When done fold together- 

E. Y. O. 
BREAD. 
Twelve Cream Tartar Biscuits. 

Sift 2 cups flour, I teaspoonful soda, 2 1-2 teaspoons of cream 
tartar together, rub in a piece of butter the size of an egg, wet soft 
with milk, and bake in a quick oven ; if baked in a shallow tin pan 
in one piece, then cut open, buttered and covered with strawberries 
mashed and sweetened, it makes a delicious strawberry short-cake. 

A. G. W. 
Genuine Parker House Rolls. 

Rub one tablespoonful of lard or butter into two quarts flour ; 
scald one pint of milk, let it cool, then add half a cup of yeast, with 
one-fourth cup of sugar, and pour into the middle of the flour, without 
stirring, and let it s^and over night. In the morning knead well, and 
set in a w^arm place until warm, then knead again, and roll out half an 
inch thick. Cut with a buscuit cutter. W. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

One quart of buckwheat flour, one teaspoonful salt, stir in water 
to make a thin batter, beat thoroughly four tablespoonfuls of yeast, set 
the batter in a warm place and let it rise over night. Add one tea- 
spoonful of soda in the morning, also, two tablespoonfuls of molasses. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 15 




John&Jas.Dobson 



ARE SHOWING 

The largest assortment of Carpets at popular prices 
ever exhibited in Boston. 

WILTONS, . $2.00 to $2.50 

ROYAL VELVETS, . 1.50 to 175 

MOQUETS, 1.50 

5-FRAME BODY BRUSS. 1.25 to 1.50 
TAPESTRY, . . 75 to i.io 

3-PLYS, ...... 1.25 

EXTRA SUPER FINE, . . .85 

ENGLISH SHEET OILS, • i.oo 

And all goods to be found in a FIRST CLASS CAR- 
PET HOUSE, at corresponding low prices. All 
Goods WARRANTED. 



525 & 527 Washington Street, 



1 6 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

A. GOVE & SON, 212 Border St, F. BJi-Coal. 

Yeast Bread. 

Always purchase the best flour, scald i quart of milk, when cool 
add 1-3 of a cake of compressed yeast, i teaspoonful of pulverized 
sugar, and flour enough to make it quite stiff, add a piece of butter half 
the size of an egg ; cover tightW and set in a warm place to rise ; in the 
morning knead it 20 minutes, then form into loaves, let it rise to 
the top of the pan (take about a pint of dough to a loaf) ; bake 
3-4 of an hour. 

R. F. G, 
Parker House Rolls. 

Take 2 quarts of flour, rub into it a tablespoonful of butter, put 
it into a deep dish, make a hole in the flour into which pour a pint of 
cold boiled milk, dissolve one-third of a compressed yeast cake in a 
little milk, and add to it ; cover tightly and let it stand all night, in 
the morning add a tablespoonful of pulverized sugar, stir up and 
knead well ; let it rise again, stir it again ; roll it out on a board half 
an inch thick, cut with an oval cutter, spread with butter, and fold like 
a turnover, put them in the pan, let them rise one hour, bake in a 
quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 

R. F. G. 
Brown Bread. 

One quart of sour milk, dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in a 
little hot water, and add to it, three cups of Indian meal, two cups of 
rye meal, one-half cup of molasses. Steam five hours. 

Corn Cake. 

Two cups of sour milk, add one-half teaspoonful of soda, dissolv- 
ed in a little hot water ; one egg beaten to a froth, two teaspoonfuls 
of sugar, two cups of corn meal and one cup of fiour. Bake in gem 
pans. 

Steamed Brown Bread, very nice. 

Two cups Indian meal, two cups graham meal, one cup flour, one 
cup molasses, one teaspoonful soda, a little salt. Pour hot water over 
the meal to scald it, then add the molasses. Steam four or five hours. 

L. P. G. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 17 



DUPLEX LAMPS 



FOR THE 



■©liI©A.T 



1^^# 



New designs of our own importation, mount- 
ed in old brass, and fitted with the new Extin- 
guisher Duplex Burner. 

lSre>-\^ stylos! 

T^&^SAT- C3rOOcis2 



I. HoiiiiDis A mm 

MANUFACTUREES AND IMPORTERS, 

No. 547 Washington Street 

(OPPOSITE R. H. WHITE & GO'S). 



i 



FINE GAS FIXTURES A SPECIALTY. 



i8 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



A. GOVE & SOU, 212 Border St., ImhM Coal. 

Baked Brown Bread. 

Three cups Indian meal, two cups Rye meal, one cup flour, three 

even teaspoons soda, three cups of luke warm wa er, a little salt. 

Bake three hours in a covered pan. 

E. L. H. 
Rye Muffins, 

One pint rye meal, one pint flour, one pint milk, one-half cup sugar, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls 
cream tartar. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Makes twenty- 
four muffins. 

Genuine Parker House Johnny Cake. 

Take two dishes ; in the first put one cup flour, one cup meal, 
one and one half teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. In the second, one cup 
milk, one cup sugar, two eggs, one-half cup melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus-. Stir the wet into the dry and bake quickly. 

A. G. W. 
Muffins. 

One quart flour, one pint sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, one 
es^g, butter size of an egg. 

Apple Fritters. 

Quarter and slice the apples. Make a batter of two eggs, one 
cup milk, a little salt and flour, or the same as for fried oysters. Put 
in your apples, and fry in hot fat. 

Corn Fritters. 

Grate sweet corn into a dish, and to one pint add one egg, one 
tea-cup of flour, one tablespoonful cream, one teaspoonful of salt, 
mix together and fry. 

Fritters. 

One pint flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, one egg, one-half pint milk. Fry 
in hot fat. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 19 



DEALER IN 

134 Lexington St., cor. Brooks, E. Boston. 



DEALER IN 



FLOUE, GRAIN, MEAL, HAY, STRAW. 

WOOD, COAL, &c, 
No. 70 Meridian Street, East Boston. 

W. C. RICHARDS & CO., 

MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN 

Fur&aces, Hanges, l\mi d Imm, 

l-MloZir- 142 Meridian St., East Boston. 

SANDERS & GIBBS, 

Whiteners, and Dealers in Paper Hangings of ail Varieties. 

^' '' '""""' 8 Meridian St., East Boston. 



E. L. GiBBS. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



A. GOVE Sf0 SON, 212 Border Street, CEMENT and LIME. 

Pop Overs. 

Two cups flour, one e^^. one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, one teaspoonful saleratus, half cup sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls butter. 

A. A. A 

PIES. 
Lemon Pie, very nice. 

Take three dessert-spoonfuls of corn starch, dissolve in cold 
water, turn over it three cups boiling water. Take the yolks of five 
eggs and white of one, one and one-half cups sugar, three lemons, a little 
butter and salt, and add to the corn staroh after it is cooled a little. 
Use only the juice of the lemons. Take the whites of the other four 
eggs and beat to a froth, when nearly beaten add a spoonful of pul- 
verized sugar. Spread this over the pies after they are baked, and 
then set in the oven to brown. This quantity makes two pies. 

L. P. G. 
Cream Pie. 

One cup sugar, three eggs, one and one-half cups flour, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in a tablespoon 
of water. Salt and lemon. 

Cream. 

Two eggs, two tablespoons sugar, two tablespoon^ flour (full), 
one pint milk, let it boil. Thicken the flour with a little milk and stir 
all together. Salt and lemon. 

Mocic Mince Pie. 

Three crackers rolled fine, two eggs, one-half cup butter, one half 
cup vinegar, one-half cup sugar, one cup water, one-half cup molasses, 
one-half pound raisins, chopped fine. Mix together. This makes two 
pies. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 21 



Wilmot's 

CLOTHING 



HOUSES, 



181 & 263 WashlBglea Si, 

BOSTON. 

747, 749 and 751 WASHINGTON STREET, 

BOSTON. 

S50 & S54 ESSEX STREET, 

SALEM, MASS. 



22 Our Housekeepers" Friknd. 



A. GOVE & SON,212BorderSt.SandandBricks. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Peel and chop the rhubarb very fine. To one cup of chopped 
rhubarb add one cup of sugar, one beaten egg, and a little butter or 
salt. This makes one pie. 

A. G. W. 

Chocolate Pie. 

Two coffee cupfuls of sugar, three coffee cupfuls of flour, one 
coffee cupful of milk, small piece of butter, three eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls cream tartar, one teaspoon ful soda. Bake in tins for Washington 
pie. Make the frosting of the whites of two eggs and brown it. For 
the fillidg take one-half pound of sweet vanilla chocolate, one teacup- 
ful of powdered sugar, yolks of two eggs, one cup boiling milk. This 
will make three pies. 

Washington Pie. * 

Beat to a froth four eggs, and one and one-half cups sugar. Stir 
into this one small cup of cold water, then two cups flour, in which 
is mixed one and one-half teaspoons baking powder. Bake in thin 
sheets and spread with jelly. 

Frosted Lemon Pie. 

(jrated peel and juice of one lemon, one cup white sugar, 
three eggs (reserving whites of two for frosting). One-fourth cup cold 
water, little salt. Line the plate with pastry as for custard pie. When 
baked spread with frosting made of the whites of the two eggs, and 
two tablespoons of pulverized sugar. Set in the oven two or three 
minutes to brown lightly. 

Mrs. C. D. H. 

Squash Pie without Eggs. 

One quart boiling milk, two Boston crackers rolled fine. Put 
to the boiling milk two teacups of strained boiled squash or pumpkin, 
a little salt, one cup sugar, extract of lemon, and a little ginger. If 
ihis quantity will not make two pies put in a little cold milk. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 23 



Joseph M. Towle, 
MASON 



AND 



BUILDER. 

Residence, 180 LEXINGTON STREET, 
Locker, Old Stand, 14 BENNINGTON STREET. 

EilST lOSTOIf. 

Mason Work and Jobbing of all 
kinds promptly attended to. 



24 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

A. QOVE & SOIT 212 Border St., best Family Coal. 

Lemon Pie. 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup water, one tablespoon 
of corn starch, one cup sugar, one egg, and piece of butter size of an 
egg. Boil the water, wet the corn starch with a little cold water, and 
stir it in. When it boils up pour it on the sugar and butter. After it 
cools add the egg and the lemon. Bake with an upper and under 
crust. 

Cream Pie. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one and one-half cup flour, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in two table- 
spoonfuls of milk. 

Cream. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one- half cup flour, one pint milk, a 
little salt. 

Washin§:ton Pie. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one-half cup milk, 
two cups flour, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar. This 
makes two pies. 

Cranberry Pie. 

One quart cranberries, chopped fine, two cups sugar, one cup 
molasses, one tablespoon corn starch, dissolved in a little water, then 
pour a cup of boiling water on it. Add salt and nutmeg. 

Apple Pie. 

Line a deep pie dish as for a custard. Pare core and quarter 
enough apples to fill it ; one-fourth cup of sugar, little butler, and one 
cup of milk poured over it. Bake till apples are done and serve hot. 

A. G. W. 
Lemon Pie. 

One lemon, grate aiid squeeze the juice, one cup sugar, a little 
more than a cup of milk, one tablespoonful corn starch, yolks of three 
eggs. Bake without an upper crust. Make a frosting of the whites 
with four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Brown in the oven 

E. Y. O. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 25 



PERFECT BED, PERFECT 
LOUNGE NO MATRESS 
^NEEDED 




OPPOSITE BEACHiJ 

N. B. — This Lounge Bed has been exhibited at Fairs and adver- 
tised at large expense, resulting in a popular verdict in its favor. Be- 
ware of infringements and imitations. All our beds are labeled inside, 
Graves' Patent Improved Loung^e Bed. We furnish Par- 
lor Suits (including our Sofa Bed) in latest designs. 

Custom Make. Warranted. 

Please notice the following points : 

1. When closed, they are and appear just like a Sofa or Lounge. 

2. The back is put on strong like a Lounge. 

3. You can tuck in the bed clothes at the back. 

4. Room enough between the slats for bedclothes. 

5. When open, they are a nice bedstead, stronger than most bed- 
steads, and a complete spring bed. 

6. A firm bolster across the head end. 

7. A strong and easily adjusted foot board. 

8. Each of the 6 legs are fastened strong, and are on rollers, so 
you can roll the bed about the room. 

9. They have 34 to 42 full length Spiral Springs. 

10. The open bed is as high as a seat. 

11. They are not hard in the middle of the bed. 

12. We warrant the frames to be durable and the upholstering 
very thorough. 

13. We make to order extra long, wide, or thick. 

A Bedstead, Spring Mattress and Bolster cost $10. Graves' 
Lounge Bed is a better bed at $10. Thus the Lounge costs nothing, 
and the case is the same as the price advances, till at $35 you get 
equal to a nice finished Black Walnut Bedstead and best Curled Hair 
Mattress, on 43 Spiral Springs, that would cost $35, and so you have 
for no cost a large Parlor Sofa or J>ounge, with best curled hair seat^ 
and save rent of one room. 



26 Our HousilKeepers' Friend. 

A. GOVE 8b SOIT52I2 Border St., Free Burning Coal. 

Mince Pie. 

One pound suet, three pounds beef, salt the meat a little, three 
pounds apples, one pound raisins, one pound brown sugar, one pint 
boiled cider, one-half pint molasses, cloves, allspice, cinnamon, mace 
and nutmeg to taste. 

E. Y. O. 

Washin§:ton Pie. 

Take two-thirds cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one egg, one 
and one-half cups of flour, one-half cup milk, one teaspoonful yeast 
powder. 

E. Y. O. 
Cream Pie. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup water, one-half teaspoon- 
ful soda dissolved in water, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one and 
one-half cups flour, small lump butter. This makes one pie. 

Cream for Pie. 

One-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of flour, one egg, one-half pint 
boiling milk. 

E. S. N. 
Mince Pie Meat. 

Four bowls meat, eight bowls apples, four bowls sugar, two bowls 
molasses, three pints cider, one pound butter or suet, three table- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls cloves, one tablespoonful mace, 
two tablespoonfuls nutmeg, two pounds raisins, other fruit to taste. 

A. A A. 
PUDDINGS. 

Frosted Corn Starch Pudding. 

One quart milk, when it boils stir in three large spoonfuls of corn 
starch, wet in a little cold milk, volks of three eirgs, a little salt- 
When cool frost with the whites of the eggs, and two-thirds cup of 
sugar. Place little squares of jelly on top of the frosting. 

A. G. W. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



27 



EIGE, HEED I ilHIlOE 



Manufacturers of 




f EUIIS AID fiLlSlS, 

32 IM 1 13S Ooniress Sts., 



All kinds of Gents' and Ladies' Travelling and Shop- 
ping Bags, wholesale and retail. Sample Trunks a 
specialty. Orders for Shipping or Repairing executed 
promptly. All kinds of Trunk Stock at Manufacturers' 
Prices. Horse Clothing, Lap Robes &c. 



Richard Rich, Jr. 
J. W. Reed. 
George E. Atwood. 



Worsted Bags Made to Order. 



28 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

Amherst Pudding. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one cup milk, one cup 
suet, one-half cup butter, one egg, one teaspoonful soda. Mix like 
ginger cake. 

Baltimore Pudding. 

One cup suet (chopped fine), one cup boiling water, one cup 
molasses, one cup raisins, three and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, little salt, spice to taste. Steam three hours. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup milk, butter size of an egg, two 
cups flour, two tablespoons yeast powder, two eggs. Eat with sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Put one quart of milk to boil, then add four spoonfuls of corn 
starch mixed with cold milk, then add three spoonfuls of chocolate 
grated fine, salt to taste. Eat with cream and sugar. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup milk, one cup sugar, one-half cup melted butter, two 
cups flour, one egg, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

Chocolate Custard. 

One quart milk, three ounces chocolate boiled together till thor- 
oughly mixed. Then take off the fire and add four eggs ; thoroughly 
beat in ; season to taste with sugar, salt, &c. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Soak three tablespoonfuls of tapioca over night. Scald one 
quart milk, stir in the tapioca and scald ten minutes. Then mix 
yolks of four eggs, one-half cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls of prepar- 
ed cocoanut, and stir into the milk and scald five minutes more. 
Pour into a pudding dish. Beat the whites of the eggs with four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar for frosting. Sprinkle cocoanut on top of 
frosting, and brown in the oven. Set away to cool. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



29 



E. men 



IMPORTERS OF 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



m#Mm# ©Mt C 



LIFE PRESERVERS, SHIP FENDERS, &c., 



CORK SHAVINGS FOR MATTRESSES, 



CUSHIONS, &e., WOODEN BUNGS. 



^M#l@^ml# mmM B#iMle 



67 immi Sf 19 lOETH mE m, 



30 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

Indian Pudding. 

One quart boiling milk, three tablespoonfuls meal, one-third cup 
molasses, one egg, a little salt. Mix all well together with a little 
milk ; pour into the boiling milk ; boil a minute or two, then pour 
into a dish, then put in one cup of cold milk, a small piece of butter, 
a little nutmeg or lemon. To be eaten with sauce. 

E. L. H. 

Fruit Pudding, 

One cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls melted butter, one cup milk, 
two heaping cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one large cup of cranberries. 

E. L. H. 

College Dumplings. 

Small loaf of Baker's bread, one pint milk, one-half cup butter, 
three-fourths cup sugar, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one- 
half cup citron (cut fine), three eggs. Bake in cups and serve 
with hot sauce. 

Rice Croquettes. 

One cup cooked rice, one-half cup milk, one egg, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful butter, 
nutmeg. Put milk on to boil, add rice and seasoning when it boils, 
and then the egg ; stir one minute, then take off and cool, when cool 
shape and roll in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Boil two quarts milk, add thirteen tablespoonfuls of Indian meal 
moistened with a little milk. When it thickens pour into a deep pud- 
ding dish, addone cup molasses, one teaspoonful salt. Before putting 
in the oven, add a pint more of cold milk, and do not stir it. 
Bake three or four hours. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 31 



H. D. Tewksbury, 



DEALER IN 



STOCKS AND BONDS 

No. 7 Exchange Place, 



BOSTON. 



Member Boston Mining and Stock Exchange. 



Buy and Sell on Commission all Securities dealt in at 
the Boston and New York Stock Exchanges. 



STOCKS and BONDS of the following Railroad Companies a Specialty 

Boston, Revere Beach and Lynn. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe, 

New York & New England. Tol. Cin. & St. Louis. 

Metropolitan (Horse). Highland (Horse). 

Incorporated Dividend Paying Mining Stock. 

Eureka Cons. (Nevada) Indian Queen (Nevada) 

Bulwer Cons. (California). Gem (Colorado). 



Bowman Silver (Nevada). 



32 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Take two tablespoonfuls tapioca, soak it over night, in the morn- 
ing take one pint milk, yolks of two eggs, a little sugar and salt. 
Cook all together a few minutes and flavor ; beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, then pour the mixture over them. To be eaten cold without 

sauce. 

Berry Pudding. 

One quart berries, one cup molasses, one cup milk, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar, little salt, flour to make a stiff 
batter. Steam one hour. Serve with sauce. 

Railroad Pudding. 

Three cups flour, one cup suet, one cup milk, one cup molasses, 
one teaspoonful soda. Steam two hours. 

Tapioca Pudding— Serve Cold. 

iDne-half cup pearl tapioca, one pint hot milk, the yolks of three 
eggs beaten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Mix with the tapioca 
and milk a little salt, and put in the oven to thicken, stirring occasion- 
ally. Beat the whites with a little more sugar, to a stiff froth and 
spread over the pudding while hot. Put in the oven to brown. Serve 

cold with cream and sugar. 

E. Y. O. 

Baltimore Pudding. 

One cup molasses, one cup milk, three-fourths cup butter, one 
cup raisins (stoned), three and one-fourth cups flour, one teaspoonful 
soda (dissolved in a little hot water). Steam three hours. To be 
eaten with sauce. R. F. G. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 33 



CORKS. 

-B^BiMB***— *«-^ 

WM. BllBEIIi & CQ 



«l 



Manufacturers of and Dealers in 



m#Mm© Out C#)Pke 



OF EVERY VARIETY AND SIZE, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 

With every facility for manufacturing; and all the 
latest improved machinery, we keep in stock the largest 
assortment of C O R K S of any house in NEW 
ENGLAND. 

We also manufacture and fill orders for 

Cork Buoys, Fenders, Life Preservers, Swimers, Seine, Corh, Sic, k 

WQODEM BUMQa 

of all sizes constantly on hand. 

ORDERS solicited and estimates given on SPEC- 
IALTIES of the TRADE. 

ORDERS by MAIL promptly attended to and 
satisfaction guaranteed. Remember the place. 

WM. BEECHING & CO. 

61 BLACKSTONE ST., - BOSTON MASS. 

Store on the First Floor. 



34 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

Sauce. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, beaten together, add one egg 

well beaten, one cup boiling milk, spice to your taste, stir slowly, and 

set on the ice till used. 

R. F. G. 

Sauce for Pudding. 

Two eggs, beat whites and yolks separately, add one cup sugar. 

R. F. G. 
Cold Sauces. 
One cup butter, two cups powdered sugar, one egg ; beat together 
to a foam. Flavor with lemon. 

Sauce for Boiled Pudding;. 

Butter size of an egg, one-half cup sugar, two eggs, a little boil- 
ing water thickened with a teaspoonful of flour ; pour on the eggs and 
sugar beaten to a cream, and flavor. 

Henrietta Sauce. 

Ten tablespoonfuls water, six of sugar, two of milk, four of butter. 
Heat the sugar and water very hot, until it melts the butter, but do 
not let it boil. Add wine and nutme<2^ just before usirig. 

Foaming Sauce. 

One cup butter, two cups su;;ar, two eggs (whites), one-fourth cup 
boiling water and essence. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add 
whites of eggs unbeaten, when all is smooth add water. Set in a pan 
of hot water, and beat until smooth. 

Velvet Cream. 

Whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two tablespoonfuls 

each of sugar, currant-jelly and raspberry jam. Eaten with sponge 

cake it is a delicious dessert. 

A. G. G. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



35 



GLENDON COMPANY, 



Wharf and Factory, Eagle Street, 



EAST BOSTON. 




AND MANUFACTURERS OF ALL KINDS OF 



Builders' Wood- Work 



POST OFFICII ADDKESS AND CITY OFFICE, 



JVo 4*^ liilby Sti-eet, 



BOSTON. 



G. K. JEWETT, President. 



N. M. JEWETT, Treasurer. 



OFFICE AND FACTORY CONNECTED BY TELEGRAPH. 



36 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



CAKE.— Delicious Cake. 

Two cups white sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, three cups 
flour. 

Pound Cake. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls cold 

water, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful saleratus 

(sifted), with one and one-half cups flour. This makes one loaf very 

nice. 

A. G. W. 

Frosting for Pound Cake. 

One teaspoonful gelatine dissolved in on ■ large spoonful cold 
water. When nicely dissolved add two teaspoonfuls boiling water a 

little vanilla, and one cup of powdered sugar. 

H. B. T. 
Citron Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, four eggs, one cup sweet 

milk, flour to thicken, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 

ful saleratus sifted with the flour. Add one-half pound citron, cut in 

very thin slices. 

A. G. W. 
Soft Gingerbread. 

One cup molasses, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful ginger 
one-third cup butter or lard, a pinch of salt ; stir this together, then 
pour on one-half cup boiling water, flour enough 10 make a thin batter 
Bake about an inch deep, in a sheet. Beat well after adding the flour 

French Cake. 

One-half oup butter, two cups sugar, three and one-half cups 
flour, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, or two teaspoon- 
fuls cream tartar, and one teaspoonful soda, one cup milk. Fiuit 
can be added if desired. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



37 



m^MOir^ii! 



IttBKA 



(Of the Mercantile and Clinton Markets Dining Room), 



Have Ee-Oiend tlis 





m Mil ^^^^^^ 

143 Atlantic Ave., & 124 Clinton Street, 

(nearly opposite the old place). 

Having had 25 years' experience in the business, we feel confi- 
dent that we can give entire satisfaction, and ask all friends and 
patrons of the former place to give us a call and satisfy themselves 
of the fact. 

The Rooms are the pleasantest in Boston, commanding a 
fine view of the harbor. Having better facilities and more spacious 
rooms, we believe we can cater to the wants of our patrons better 
than ever before. 

Thankful for former patronage and trusting to receive a contin- 
uance of the same, we shall give all who call on us a cordial welcome. 



Respectfully, 



ALONZO COY. 
JOSEPH H. COY. 



38 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

Gingerbread. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup lard, one-half cup hot water, one 
teaspoonful soda. 

Cold Cake. 

Yolks of three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds cup 
butter, two and one-half cups flour, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon- 
ful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda. 

Delicate Tea Cake. 

Three eggs (whites), one cup pulverized sugar, one-half cup 
sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, one-half cup melted butter, 
one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Jenny Lind Cake. 

One egg, three cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup milk, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful (large) soda. To be eaten 
in place of bread. 

Marble Cake. 

Light Part. — One and one-half cups sugar, two thirds cup but- 
ter, one cup milk, four eggs (whites), one-half teaspoonful soda, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar, two and one-half cups sifted flour, lemon. 

Dark Part. —One cup sugar, one cup molasses, two-thirds cup 
butter, one-half cup milk, four eggs (yolks), and one egg added, two 
and one half cups flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda. Spice to suit. 

Jelly Cake. 

Three eggs, one cupful sugar, one cupful flour, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, one-halt teaspoonful soda. Bake in a quick oven. Roll 
with jelly when hot. 



Our Housekkepers' P'riend. 39 



BEDFIELD ERSKINE, 



DEALER IN 



m ii@©iiiii mi Pi@?iil©i 

Foreign and Domestic Fruits, Teas, Coffees, etc, 
73 LEXINGTON STKEET, (OR. MARION. 

mm T. ATWOOB, 

—DEALER L\— 

TINWARE, KITCHEN FURNISHING GOODS, &, 

SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO 
ALSO, 

Plumbing. Gas Fitting and Steam Piping. 

30 Maverick Square, and 1 Winthrop Block, 
EAST BOSTON. 



40 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



Blueberry Cake. 

Four cupfuls flour, one cupful milk, one cupful sugar, one-half 
cupful melted butter, two eggs, one and one-half teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful soda, one pint berries, rubbed in a dish of 
flour. 

White Mountain Cake. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four eggs, one 
cup> milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda- 
Flavor. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One half cup butter, one and one-h;ilf cup sugar, tour eggs (whites) 
beaten to a stiff froth, on^-half cup milk, with one-half teaspoonful 
soda, and one teaspoonful of cream tartar, beaten in it two and one- 
half cups flour. Flavor with vanilhi. Rake in two thin sheets. 

Frosting, 

Two bars prepared chocolate, grated fine, one cup powdered 
sugar, whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix and put half 
between the two layers of cake, and half on top. 

Corn Starch Cake. 

Three eggs (whites), one cup sugar, one-half cup corn starch, one 
half cup butter, one cup flour, one-half cup milk, one fourth teaspoon- 
ful soda, one-half teaspoonful cream tartar. Flavor with lemon. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

One quart flour, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, butter the size of an egg ; mix with milk very soft, and bake 
quickly. Split into two or three parts, butter one of tlie parts, sprinkle 
sugar on, then put on a layer of strawberries, and cover them with 
cream. Lay on the other part, and sprinkle fine sugar on the top. 
This is a good rule for any fruit. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



«vr«'#^«^4^#>#«v#«^•^««^#^#«^•^#>#<#v#^4^#.#^«^«^»^^'««>#'#'#^#^#'#'#««#^#t##<tf^r>#'«^>#«^«^#^»^«|#^^^ 



Frank C. Wood, 



Jf oreigi| iiEil ppinesttc flrg^ociik 



AND SMALL WARES 



No. 11 CENTRAL. SQUARE, 



EAST BOSTON. 



r>«^4r^#<«^#\#\#\#^#^#^«^#^#^#^#^#4r«^rt#>^^«-«^#y«^^«^#vr««^#^#^#^#^#'#^#«r#^#V#^#^#^r\Jr#^^ 



42 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



THOS. F. SWAN, 12 Cornhill, Boston, Paper Hangings. 

Fruit Cake. 

Two cups sugar, two cups molasses, one pint butter, ten eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls brandy, one teaspoonful soda, two pounds raisins, 
two pounds currants, one-half pound citron ; spice to taste ; flour 
enough to make a spoon stand straight. 

E. L. H. 
Wafers. 

One cup white sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one-third 
teaspoonful soda. Flour to roll thin. 

Mrs. C. D. H. 
Doughnuts. 

One quart flour, two teaspoonful s cream tartar sifted with the flour, 
piece of butter size of a large nutmeg, one cup sugar, two-thirds tea- 
spoonful soda, dissolved in one cup milk, two eggs, little salt. Flavor 
with nutmeg. 

E. L. H. 
Sponge Cake. 

Five eggs beaten very light, one-half pound sugar, one-fourth 
pound flour; stir as little as possible, after putting in the flour. Bake 
twenty minutes. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup molasses, one large spoon lard, one teaspoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful ginger. Boil together. One teaspoonful soda in a little 
water. Flour to roll thin. Mrs. C. D. H. 

Mock Loaf Cake. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup shortening (half lard and half butter), 
one egg, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teasponful cream tartar, one- 
half cup milk, two cups flour, raisins and nutmeg. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

Mrs. C. D. H. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. ' 43 



METROPOLE INSURANCE, of Paris, France, 

Fully Paid Cash Capital, $1,000,000. 

City of Lofidofi Fife Insurance Co,, of London, England, 

FULLY PAID CASH CAPITAL; $1,000,000. 
JOHN C. PAIGE, RESIDENT MANAGER, 

20 KILBY STREET, BOSTON, MASS. 

COLEMAN COOK, Agent, 

8 and lO Maverick Square, East Boston, Mass. 



Pictures and Frames 

PICTURES NEATLY FRAMED AT SHORT NOTICE. 

Address, Care A. COY & BKO., 

124 Clinton St., & 143 Atlantic Ave.. 

BOSTON. 
J. I^. J^MITHL. 

Manufacturer of 

Olioioo Oroa>xxis, cfeo. 

46 PARIS ST., AND 15 CHELSEA ST.. 

EAST BOSTON. 



Parties supplied with Cake and Ice Cream at short notice, and orders left at 
either of the above places will be promptly attended to. 



44 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

THOS. F. SWAN, 12 Comhill, Boston, Paper Hangings. 

Cookies. 

One cup butter, two and one-half cups sugar, two eggs, four 

tablespoonfuls milk, a little nutmeg, one teaspoonful saleratus, flour 

to thicken (no cream tartar required). These are very nice and keep 

well. 

F. B. W. 
Cake Custard. 

Moisten twocupfuls of stale cake, with a custard made of one pint 
milk, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put into buttered cups, 
set in a pan of hot water, and bake in a moderate oven, until the cus- 
tard is firm. Turn out and serve with any kind of pudding sauce. 

A. G. W 
English Walnut Cake. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, two cups 
flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
one large cup raisins, one large cup nuts (chopped fine). Flour the 
nuts and raisins before putting them in the cake. 

Cream Cake. 

Put two well beaten eggs into a teacup, fill it up with sweet 
cream, then take one cup of sugar, one cup flour, one small teaspoon- 
ful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar _, beat well togetiier and 
flavor to taste. Bake in a shallow pan. 

Cup Cake. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and one-half cups flour, 
one cup milk, four eggs, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, salt. 

Berry Cake. 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, one teaspoonful saleratus, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream tartar, one pint flour, two eggs, one pint berries. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 45 



THE BEST BOOKS FOR SUNDil7-SCH00L LIBm!ES. 

The |i,ooo and $5,000 Prize Books. 37 vols. 

The Pansy Books. 30 large lamo vols. 

The Pansy Books. 28 smaller for the Children. 

Margaret Sidney's Books. 4 vols. 

Ella Farman's Books. 9 vols. 

Julia A. Eastman's Books. 6 vols. 

Books by the author of "Andy Luttrell." 7 vols. 

C. M Yonge's Histories and Historical Stories, ii vols. 

Mrs. a. E. Porter's Books. 5 vols. 

D Lothrop & CO., ... Publishers. 

A. Jong delighf is secured hy sub- 
scribing for one or all of their Poj)- 
nlar Illustrated Magazines. 

For the Young Folks, there is the ever gay and wise. 

which comes every month like an artist friend, fresh from 
travel all over the world, and with a happy knack of telling 

entertaining stories, and singing songs, and making vis- 
ible the characters and scenes with pencil and brush. 
For the Little Folks who are just beginning to read 
for themselves, there is the 

MMEwmvm WiMtsmm^ mm^mmm^^ . 

a refined and delightfully illustrated monthly. Natural history, curious and amus- 
ing true stories of home pets, and fresh descriptions of ways and plays of children in 
other lands, always fill a large space. A Transferable Stiff Cover is sent with the 
January number to all subscribers, and subsequent numbers are punched so as to 
be inserted as they arrive. Only 75 cents a year. 

For the Babies just old enough to cuddle in the laps of papa and mamma and see 
pictures and be read to, there is 




daintv and sweet and funny, with short words, and large type, and charming pictures, 
and heavy cream-tint paper. ^@**That all may know how bewitching Babyland 
is, the Publishers have decided to send Babyland free, fof three months, to all 
babies born during 1882, whose addresses are sent them'bythe parents or friends. 
^^^Only 50 cents a year. 

For the children to read on the long quiet Sunday afternoons, there is 

(edited by the author of the Pansy books), a tender and bright little messenger of 
peace and goodwill. All children should know about the Pansy Society, with its 
pretty badge to be worn by members. Weekly, 50 cents a vear. 

Send five 3-cent stamps for specimens of all the above to 

D. LOTHROP & CO., PUBLISHERS, 32 Franklin St., Boston, Mass. 
Thrhh EoiTfONs IN Three Weeks. The Pettibone Name. A New England Story. By 

Margaret Sidney. 121x10. $1.25. The most successful book of the season. 



46 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



THOS. F. SWAN, 12 Cornhill, Boston, Paper Hangings. 

Economy Cake. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, three cups flour, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful saleratus, one 
cup milk, one-half cup currants. 

Seed Cake. 

Five cups flour, two cups sugar, one cup lard, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, a little salt. Seeds 
to your liking. Mix with cold milk. 

Dolly Varden Cake. 

Two cups Hour, one cup su^ar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, two eggs (whites), one-half teaspoonful saleratus, one teaspoon- 
ful cream tartar. Frosting (for the same), yolks of two eggs, fifteen 
teaspoon fuls sugar. 

Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, one-half cup milk, two 
teaspoonfuls yeast powder ; flour to make quite stiff ; flavor to suit ihc 
taste. 

Porter Cake. 

One and one-quarter cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, two cups flour, three eggs, one-half teaspoonful cream tartar, 
three-fourths teaspoonful soda ; lemon to flavor. 

Blueberry Cake. 

One cup sour milk, one cup sugar, one tgg, one teaspoonful soda, 
one tablespoonful butter, two and one-half cups Hour. 

Charming; Cake. 

One cup of butter (washed), two cups of pulverized sugar, beaten 
together, add five eggs, after beating yolks and whites separately, dis- 
solve one-third of a teaspoonful of soda in hot water, put it into one- 
third of a cupful of milk, add to the other ingredients, one-third of a 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, mixed in three cups of flour added. 
Bake in a loaf one hour and frost ; if baked in sheets add a little more 
flour and milk. 

R. F. G. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend, 47 



Magee Furnace Co, 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



F 







OFFICES AND SALESROOMS, 

32 TO 38 Union, & 19 to 27 Friend Sts, 



«® 



ALBERT N. PAKIilN, . . Treasurer. 



48 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



THOS. F. SWAN, 12 Cornhill, Boston, Paper Hangings. 

Cream Cakes. 

One-half pint of water, boil the water and melt one-half cup of 
butter into it, add one and one-half cupb of dry flour, dissolve one- 
fourth teaspoonful soda in a little hot water and add to it. When 
cool add five well,,beaten eggs. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

Cream for Filling. 

One-half cup of flour, one cup of sugar, one pint of milk, two 
eggs, scald the milk and sugar together, add the fiour dry, then the 
eggs well beaten. When cool fill the cakes. 

R. F. G. 
Snowball Cake. 

One cup sugar, one half cup butter, two cups fiour, three 
eggs (whites), one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful sal- 
eratus. Beat butter and sugar together, add the whites of the eggs 
beaten in stiff foam, then the flour with cream tartar sifted in, and 
milk and soda last. 

Nut Cake. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three-fourths pound butter, 
one-half cup milk, two leaspoonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoonful 
saleratus, six eggs, or.e pint bowl of nuts. 

E. Y. O. 
Sponge Cake. 

Two cups floui (sifted into the cup), one cup sugar, one-half 
cup water, three eggs (the whites of one left out for frosting), one 
teaspoonful yeast powder, one-half teaspoonful salt. 

E. Y. O. 
Bride's Cake. 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup water, three cups 
flour, whites of five eggs, one teaspoonful saleratus, two teaspoonfuls 
cream tartar. Flavor with almond. Bake in a quick oven and 
frost. 

E. Y. O. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 49 



E. C. MARSH, 

M#»m mmm mammww^ 

135 LEXIUGTOIT STREET, EAST BOSTON. 

^ .. » .. ^ 

PURE COD LIVER OIL A SPECIALTY. 



WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 



Fine Vermont and New York Dairies a Specialty. 

Office and Hesidence, 37 Monmoutli St., E. Boston. 

Goods Received and Sold on Commission. Orders by 
mail promptly filled. 



DR. H. LESEUR, 

34 Temple Place, - - - - BOSTON. 

J. L. HmBDIIIQ, 

DEALER IN 

Fruit and Produce, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, &c., 

375 Meridian Street, East Boston. 

At Harding's Fruit Store, Meridian St., cor. Princeton, they sell 
cool Everett Spring Water, fresh from the spring every day. One 
cent per glass, five cents per gal. Go in and see him when you want 
pure water. 



50 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

THOS. F. SWAN, 12 Cornhill, Boston, Paper Hangings. 

^ Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, three and one-half 
cups flour, five eggs, leaving out whites of two, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda. 

Frosting for Same. — Whites of two eggs, one and one-half 

cups sugar, six tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. Flavor with 

lemon. 

C. B. 
Doughnuts. 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, two eggs, one tablespoonful butter, 

a little salt, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, 

flour enough to roll out. Spice to taste. 

E. Y. O. 

Rochester Jelly Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, two eggs, one-half cup butter, three 
fourths cup milk, two heaping cups of flour with one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk. Put 
half the above mixture in a small shallow tin, and to the remainder 
add one teaspoonful of molasses, one-half cup raisins or currants, one- 
half teaspoonful cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and a little nutmeg, one 
tablespoonful of flour. Bake this in same kind of tin. Put the sheets 

of cake together while warm, with jelly between. 

E. V. O. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 




Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



THOS. F, SWAN, 12 Comliill, Boston, Paper Hangings, 

Walnut Cake. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, five eggs, two teaspoonfuls 

cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda, one cup milk, one pound English 

walnuts, one pound raisins, (stoned), one pound flour, (equal to about 

three and one-half cups flour). 

E. Y. O. 
/ Vermont Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one halt cup butter- 
one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar, two and one- 
half cups of flour. Salt and vanilla for flavoring. 

E. S. N. 
Orange Cake. 

Two cups sugar, two and one-half cups flour, one-half cup water, 
juice of one orange, yolks of five eggs and whites of three, one-half 
teaspoonfulsoda, one teaspoonful cream tartar, or two of yeast powder, 
pinch of salt. Bake in three tins. 

Paste for the Above. 

Part of the juice and a v^ry little of the grated rind of one orange, 

whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth and made stiff with powdered 

sus^ar. Spread this on cake. 

E. Y. O. 

Crumlets. 

Two eggs, two-thirds cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one 

cup chopped raisins, two tablespoonfuls milk, one teaspoonful cream 

tartar, one-half teaspoonful saleratus, cinnamon, salt, flour to roll out 

as thick as doujihnuts. Cut with a cake cutter. 

E. S. N. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



53 



Save Money 



BY BUYING YOUR 



m 



Vv.V\v\\\\V\V\\\V 



!R-^^^^^S 








AT 



The OLD SOUTH CLOTlIi HOUSE 



THE LARGEST STOCK ! 

THE GREATEST VARIETY! 

AND THE LOWEST PRICES ! 

AT 

315 & 317 WASHINGTON STREET, 



GEORGE R. BRINE, Manager. 



54 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



THOS. F. SWAN, 12 Cornhill, Boston, Paper Hangings. 



FANCY DISHES.-Fruit Ice. 

Juice of three lemons, one quart of boiling water, one quart of 

sugar, one-half pint fruit of any kind. Let it stand until cold, then 

freeze it. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

Juice of five lemons, one pint sugar, one quart water, one table- 
spoonful gelatine. Soak gelatine in a little water, boil one cup water 
and dissolve gelatine in it. Mix together sugar, water, gelatine and 
lemon juice, strain into a can and freeze it. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

Two quarts cold water, two teaspoonfuls gelatine, one quart sugar, 
juice of six lemons. Dissolve the gelatine in a half pint of the water? 
mix the other ingredients as for lemonade. Freeze the same as for 
ice cream. When it is frozen quite hard pack in a mould, and set in 
the same water in which it was frozen, letting it stand till ready to 
serve. 

Mrs. C. D. H. 
Fried Tomatoes. 

Do not pare them, but cut into slices, like apples, dip in pounded 
crackers and fry in butter. 

Strawberry Blancc Mange. 

Stew nice ripe strawberries, strain off the juice, and sweeten to 

taste. Place over the fire, and when it boils, stir in two tablespoon- 

fuls of corn starch, wet in cold water to every pint of juice. 'Pour into 

moulds, wet in cold water and net away to cool. Serve with cream 

and sugar. Raspberries and blackberries cooked the same way are 

very nice, 

A. G. W. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 55 



CHINA, 
CROCKERY 



■AND- 



GLASS. 



HOMER, LANE & CO, 



Importers and Retailers, 



No. 53 Franklin Street 



BOSTON 



56 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

THOS. F- SWAN, 12 Cornhilli Boston, Paper Hangings. 



Lemon Creams. 

Grate the rind of one lemon, add the juice of two lemons to a 

pint of cold water, bring it to a boil, then add five well beaten eggs, 

set on ice till used. Fill in glass cups. 

R. F. G. 

Fruit for Dessert. 

Beat well the white of an egg, with a little water, dip the fruit in 
and roll it immediately in powdered sugar, place it on a dish, and 
leave it five or six hours, then serve. A more beautiful and exquisite 
dessert than a plate of currants thus dressed cannot be had. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Beat up six eggs, season with a little salt and pepper, put a little 
piece of butter into the frying pan, and when it is hot turn in the eggs, 
stir it until it thickens and eat hot. 

Spanish Cream. 

To one pint milk add one-third package of gelatine. Place over 
a kettle of boiling water. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stir into the milk, after the gelatine has dis- 
solved add a little salt. Stir constantly until it begins to thicken. 
Take from the fire and add the whites of the eggs, thoroughly beaten. 

Stir five minutes. Flavor and put in a mould to cool. 

E. Y. O. 
Jellitina. 

One package of gelatina, dissolved in one pint of cold water. 

Stand twenty minutes, then add one quart of boiling water, and two 

cups of sugar, juice of two lemons. Strain it all into bowls. 

E. S. N. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 57 

W5 Iiavs ImM nsarly IM Houses in L Boston. 

IF YOU ARE IN WANT OF 

• Or anything in the Housekeeping Line, call on 

^A. MgAithui^ 

His line of goods for the fall trade has been select- 
ed with the greatest care, as to quality and design 

f 1© iarptt l©partM©nt 

is supplied with the latest patterns and colorings, 
and are really elegant. 

Call and examine our goods. 

Terms Cash, or on Weekly or Monthly Payments. 

79 Washington, and 85 Hanover Sts, 

O. E. WELCH, Assistant Manager. 



58 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

THOS. F. SWAN, 12 Comiill, Boston, Paper Hangings. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one-half 
cake chocolate. Mix the chocolate and milk to a smooth paste. Boil 
all together twenty minutes. When nearly done add a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg. Flavor with vanilla. 

FITCH & JOY, 

Ship Smiths, 

■ CORNER OF 

North Ferry Avenue and Commercial St., 

BOSTON. 
SIMPSON'S DRY DOCK, EAST BOSTON. 

Whitten's Market, 105 Trenton St., East Boston. 



dealer in 



Choice Provisions, Fruit and Vegetables. 

Goods delivered in any part of the Island tree of charge. 



\ 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 59 

J. A. COCHRAN & CO., 

DEALERS IN 

First - Ck bceries and Frovisions, 

Cor. Brooks and Princeton Sts., East Boston. 

Wm. M. McCallum, 



dealer in 



Custom Work a Specialty, 
No. 132 Meridian Street, East Boston. 



REPAIRING PROMPTLY DONE IN THE BEST MANNER 

STETSON'S 

IS8 Hanover Street, cor, of Blackstone, 
BOSTON. 



You will always find at this Store a good assortment, durable goods and low prices. 

L. J. WYZANSKI, 

dealer in 



Ladies' and Gents' Furnishing Goods, 

Always on hand, a full line of 

129 Meridian, cor. London Street, East Boston. 



6o 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 





\\\\\\\W v^^v 




umm 



The most attractive and durable floor cover- 
ing ever produced. It is warm, bright, noiseless 
and elastic. It is easily kept clean, and any sized 
room can be covered with one piece, wihout seam. 



John H, Pray, Sons & Co, 



F. M. Holmes Furniture Company. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



00 

OQ 

< 

O 
I 

H 
00 









Factory at East Cambridge. 

WAREROOMS, 107 WASHINGTON STREET, 



BOSTON 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 6i 

T. SIMPSON & CO., 

Eiii; Storss, ^rocsriss, Provisions, Fruit, etc. 

263 Meridian Street, East Boston, 

(Near corner of Princeton Street). 



FLOUR AND BUTTEE SPECIALTIES. 



WOOD BROTHERS, 

Jeffries Point, East Bostoil. 

S. B. WOOD. C. S. WOOD. 

YACHTS AND BOATS BUILT TO ORDER AND REPAIRED. 

dealer in 

139 Meridian Street, cor. London, East Boston. 

QlOBGl Jk. SHilCKFOBD, 

dealer in 

Choice Familj Groceries aiil Frovidons, 

31 Central Square, East Boston. 

(Masonic Building). 



62 Our Housekeepers' Friexd. 



THOS. F. SWAN, 12 Cornl, Boston, Paper Hangings. 



Lemon Candy. 

Two cups white sugar, one cup water, one half cup vinegar. Boil 
quickly. Flavor with lemon before pouring from the pan. 

WALBRIDGE BROS. 



DEALERS IN 



Furniture, Carpets and Stoves, 

ITo. 23 Washington Street, Boston. 

Mattresses, Bedding, Clocks, &c., Household Goods, Chamber Sets, 
Parlor Suits, &c. Depot Cars pass the door. 

Levi Wai.hridc;e. Frhd G. Wai.briix;h. 

ROBERT SANDERSON, 



DEALER IN 



GKEIllESdPllOyiSIONUIIUITdraEmES, 

Cor. of Brooks and Eutaw Sts., East Boston. 

JOHN W. SPRAGUE, 

FUnmSHIITG UNDERTAKEH and embalmeu, 

Ware-Rooms: 120 Meridian Street, 

Residence, 123 Meridian Street, EAST BOSTON. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend, 63 



DEALER IN 

OI®l©i iliiiliii & Pl®f lililij 

Flour. Sugar, Spices, &c. 
orders solicited and goods delivered. 

150 Saratoga Street, - - - - East Boston. 

FLAVEL SHURTLEFF, 

—DEALER IN— 

243 Meridian Street, East Boston. 



BOOTS AND SHOES REPAIRED. 

P. W. FIRTH, 

Picture Frame Manufacturer, 

And Dealer In 

Engravings, Clironos, Litliographs, Photographs, Fasse-par-touts, Cord, 

Tassels, &c. Wax Flower Materials, 

13 Meridian Street, East Boston, Mass 

^AlIBS' DsTtlGI f EATIItS 

COLORED, CLEANSED AND CURLED, 
AT THE BLEACHERY, 

124 Meridian Street - - - East Boston. 



64 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



THOS. F. SWAN, 12 Cornhill, Boston, Paper Hangings. 

Molasses Candy. 

Three cups molasses, one cup sugar, a little butter, a little vine- 
gar. A pinch of soda put in just before you pour it from the pan. 



tT 



At Lowest Prices found at the old stand 
BRANCH STORE, 

(Opposite the Unitarian Church,) 

Where^ as formerly, Miss Merrill will be pleased 
to receive her patrons. 

AND dealer in 

Fine Ready- Made Clothing, Gent's Furnishing Goods, 

No. 4 Winthrop Block, Maverick Sq., East Boston. 
WILLMM eHEFARD, 

Machine Forging, Iron Fencing, 

stone Cutters' Sc Masons' Tools, House Sc Store Work, Iron Work for Shades, Sec. 
NO. 106 Traverse Street, - - Boston. 



JOBBING PROMPTLY ATTENDP:i) TO. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



65 



r#^#^#^#^#v#^#^#^#^«^#^^#^^#^^«^#<«^r^#«^r.#^#>«>^'«^r^#^«^#^#«>#^#>^^«'^>''#<^^>4 



Henry H, Tuttle & Co, 



FASHIONABLE 




AND LARGE IMPORTERS OF 



#K'*wjc% f ^ni^lmk S%Jff^^' 



Cor, Washington & Winter Streets, 



B0STOM. 



r.#.#^#^r#^#-,«^^#^#^«^#^«^#^#v«^«^#^#^«^#«^«^«^r«^r«^«^•^#'«^#<r'^«^«^«'^.•^#«^»^#^#4 



66 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



H. BUSELL, SS Msriclian St., East Boston, House Painter. 



Butter Taffy. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup water, two teaspoonfuls vinegar, 
butter the size of half an egg. 

Everton Taffy. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter. Boil 
not quite as long as for molasses candy. Pour it on buttered plates. 



JOHN LEIGHTON, 

CHOICE 




303 Meridian Street, - - East Boston. 



WARD & WALDRON, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

BORDERS, FRIEZES, &c. 
53 Union, and 4 Marshall Sts., - Boston. 

—DEALER IN— 

DRY AND FANCY GOODS, 

Gents' Furnishing Goods 
No. 2 Meridian Street, - East Boston. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 67 

Bl^Y PATEHT MIDICIMIS 

—AT— 
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES. 

Beef, Iron and Wine, 65 cents a bottle. 

Meridian, corner Saratoga Street. 



TO^ffiW ^SO^^> *'ff,^^W^ ^!S^V ^^ ^^^ ^PRtv^ ^SWP^' ^^'^f' TWP ^flP^ ^ W- 

Wholesale Commission Dealers in Foreign and Domestic 

284 Concord, and 207 Arlington Avenues, 

(Mercantile Market, Boston). 
APPLES, ONTONS AND CRANBERRIES A SPECIALTY. 

George H. Hale, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

20 CORNHILL, BOSTON. 

Rubber Goods neatly Repaired, with dispatch, 

R. & J. C3rII-.OHM«S1", 

IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 



AT THE OLD STAND, 

Nos 5 & 7 WINTER STREET, BOSTON 

ESTABLISHED IN 1855. 



68 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

H. EUSELL, SS Meridian Street, I Boston, Sign Painter. 

Butter Candy. 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup water, 
two teaspoonfuls vinegar and do not stir it. Boil till it strings. 

E. S. N. 

A. WATERS, 

—DEALER IM— 

Hats, Caps, &c. 

Also a Fine Assortment of Trunks and Bags constantly on hand. 

No. 123 Meridian Street, East Boston. 

FIRE INSUR ANCE I 

CITY OF LONDON FIRE INSURANCE CO., OF LONDON, ENG, 

Fullv paid Cash Clapital, 5i,ooo.oco oo 

with the additional protection under the laws of England 
of a very large Subscription Capital. 

Trustees in Boston for the United States. 

Chas. F. Choate. Olivkk Ames. R. E. Demmon. 

METROPOLE INSURANCE CO., OF PARIS. FRANCE. 

Fully-paid Cash Capital, $1,000,000 00 

with the additional protection of the rigid laws of France 
regarding shareholders' liability. 

Trustees in Boston for the United States. 

IT. H. Munnp:well. Geo. M. Barnard. Wm. P. Hunt. 

JOHN C. PAIGE, Resident Manager, 

20 KILBY STREET BOSTON MASS. 

COLEMAN COOK, Agent, 

8 & 10 Maverick Sciuare, - - East Boston, Mass. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 69 



MILLER. 

The World's Greatest Pianists use the 

Henry F, Miller Pianos, 



SHERWOOD, MAAS, 

PETERSILEA, MAURER, 

LAVALLEE, and Others, 

HAVE USED THE 

MILLER ARTIST'S GRAND PIANO 

Exclusively during the past season and have made 
• their greatest successes with these celebrated 
instruments. Catalogues sent on 
application. 



HENRY F. MILLER, 

BOSTON, MASS, U.S.A. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



H. BUSELL,5S Meridian St., E.B, Grainer and Gilder. 

PRESERVES.-Tomatoes. 

Four pounds ripe tomatoes (sliced), three pounds light brown 
sugar. Cook together till the fruit is soft. Then add one-half ounce 
whole cloves, and five sliced lemons. Cook till the lemon is tender. 

Mrs. C. D. H. 

Bread, Pies, Cake and Confectionery. 
Hot Biscuit every evening. 

COMER PUTNAM and THEHTOIT STREETS. 

M WHEELOCK. 

E. HODGE & CO., 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

liiiii aid ititkiiif Balkii, 

OIL AND SHIP TANKS, 

Stills, Sugar Pans. &o., and all kinds of Plate-Iron Work. 

Liverpool St., near Central Square, 

EAST BOSTON. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 71 



Fill liSVBAiei. 



COLEMAH COOK, 

8 & 10 MAVERICK SQ,, - EAST BOSTON. 

Agent for the following companies: 

Phoenix Assurance Co. of London, Eng-. 

INCORPORATED 1783, 

City of London Insurance Company, 
London, Eng. 

Metropole Insurance Co. of Paris, France. 

New York Bowery Insurance Co. 
of New York. 

Manufacturers' & Builders' Insurance Co. 
of New York. 

Insurance placed in any company doing business in 
Boston, at lowest rates. 

Telephone in the Office connecting with all the princi- 
pal companies and agencies. 



72 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

H. BUSELL, SS MM St., E.S., Ornamental Painter. 

Whortle Berries for Winter Use. 

Four pounds berries, one pound sugar. Dissolve the sugar in a 
little water. When the berries have been thoroughly cooked in this 
syrup, skim them out into a stone jar. Boil the syrup till it thickens, 
reducing the quantity at least one-fourth, then pour over the berries. 
This will be ready for filling pies. Add about two tablespoonfuls of 
water for each pie. 

Mrs. C. D. H. 



MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN 



»tiim. iii ild 



«- — ^ '^^'f*-T 




BRASS AND IRON FIXTURES OF ALL KINDS. 

ENGINEERS AND MILL SUPPLIES. 

Garden Rubber Hose and Trimmings. 

25 WASHIITGTOIT, AND 85 FRIEND STREETS, 

BOSTON. 



. L. iXURTEYANT, 

Lui\XBKIt 31: E R O H ATV T, 

STURTEVANT'S WHARF, 

322 Border Street, - - East Boston. 



Nos. 139 TO 153 Border Street. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 73 



SHEFHED, NOEHfELl I CO. 



HEADQUARTERS FOR THE 

ORIGINAL UNSHRINKING 

Shaker Flannels 

AND THE CELEBRATED 

Grown Blankets. 

wahhauted every fibre wool. 



Shepard, Norwell & Co, 

Winter Street, - - - Boston. 



74 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



H. BUSELL, 85 Meriiian St. 1 1 House & Sign Painter 

Chile Sauce. 

Eighteen ripe tomatoes, one onion, three green peppers (chopped 
fine), one cup sugar, two and one-half cups vinegar, two teaspoonfuls 
salt, one teaspoonful all kinds spice. Bottle for use. 



HOME-MADE 

EXTRA BROWN BREAD. 

ITo. 1 1 THEUTON STREET, - EAST BOSTON. 



MBS. C. A. M®GlilW, 

WvQXiQh,$^ramrios^xi Millinery 

FALL STYLES NOW READY, 
85 Winter Street, Boston, - - Room 9 



JOHN KNUDSEN, 

341 Meridian Street, East Boston. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



75 




■rixo SJtet23.cietrci- 



These celebrated Scales not only continue to hold their pre- 
eminence so long acknowledged, but are constantly gaining in the 
high estimation in which they have always been held by 

The Correctness of their Principle. 

The Accuracy of their Adjustment. 
The Sterling Quality of their Materials. 

The Durability of Every Part. 
The Long Experience of the Manufacturers 
and the Improvements which are constantly being 

made by them. 
The Fullness and Reliability of their Warrant. 

The Reasonable Prices at which they are Sold. 

A full assortment of RAILROAD. HAY, COAL, PLATFORM 

SCALES, with wheels and without wheels: COUNTER SCALES, 

DRUGGISTS' SCALES, BUTCHERS' SCALES, adapted to every 

variety of business. For sale at our warehouses, 

M 



83 Milk Street, Post Office Square, - Boston. 

311 BROADWAY, - - - NEW YORK. 

Also a-ents for ^X!)^^k ^ ^^^'^ Protection 

MILES' ALABM TILL ot^S^^ a cr.u.^i^ 

mM^^^^^^m\ Against 

DOUBLE-LOCK 

Money Drawer 




Till Tapping*. 



7^ Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

H. mm, 3S Meridian St., LB., mm, [1LA2IEII AND m\m. 

Picalilli Sauce. 

One peck of green tomatoes, twelve large onions, six peppers (all 
chopped fine), sprinkle on one cup salt, and let it stand over night. 
In the morning strain through a sieve, and add one pound of sugar, 
one ounce white mustard seed, one tablespoonful each of cloves, cin- 
namon, and allspice, and boil twenty minutes. Whole spice. 

A. A. A. 



WILLARD S. ALLEN, 

CLERK OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT, 
of the EAST BOSTON DISTRICT, 

Authorized to take 

Bail in Criminal Cases, 

Residence, 88 Lexington Street, - East Boston. 



J. R. BOYNTON, M.D. 

No. 332 Meridian Street. - - East Boston, Mass. 



Office Hours : 1 to 3 P. M. 7 to 9 P. M. 



JAMES J. MULLOY, D, D, S. 

314 MERIDIAN ST., - - EAST BOSTON, 



Particular attention paid to the treatment of CUldren's Teeth. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



77 



BBIilAl^S llSfATOAif, 



642 and 644 WASHINGTON STREET, 



BOSTON, MASS, 



IS THE PLACE TO BUY YOUR 



m, mi, m, imm rm 



— AND- 



BRIG HAM'S 



WEDDING CAKE A SPECIALTY. 



PR[PI1RED TO SERVE MEJLS AT ULL HOURS. 



Open from 6 A. M. to 12 P. 31. 



78 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



Pickles. 

Soak five hundred small cucumbers in brine, over ni2:ht, using 
about two and one-half pounds salt for the brine. Wipe dry in the 
morning. Spice three gallons white wine vinegar, with one-fourth 
pound cloves, one-fourth pound pepper, one-fourth pound cinnamon, 
one-fourth pound allspice, one-fourth pound white mustard, one-fourth 
pound alum. Use whole spice. Let this come to a boil, then pou^' 
over the cucumbers. These pickles can be kept nicely in a common 
wooden firkin, 

Mrs. C. D. H. 

GEO. B. MUNBOE, 

dealer in 



No. 25 3IERIDIAN STREET. 



Ladies' and Gents' Boots and Shoes of every description 
made to order. Repairing neatly done. 



HOUSE, SIGN AND FANCY 

PAINTER AND GRAINER, 

Shov/ Cards, Glass Signs, 
238 COMMERCIAL ST., BOSTON 



23 AVON STREET. 

A delicious and fragrant cup of Tea or Coffee, with cream, 5 
' ents, Tenderloin Steak, 25 cents. All the luxuries and delicacies of 
Lhe season cooked to order, at very reasonable prices. Superior Ice 
Cream and Wedding Cake made to order. Ladies' Toilet Room 
Attached. 

T. n. COOK. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 79 



HARDY 



lETISf FlOfO&IAPIlE, 



TV'^^SHIIXG^TOIV ST. 



BOSTON. 



CORNER OF TEMPLE PLACE. 



PIm® Cwmwmm Wmwtwmitm 



A SPECIALTY. 



So Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

Miscellaneous. 

Equal parts of ammonia and sweet oil, and essence of cayenne is 
a superior liniment for pains and sprains. 

Three parts of linseed oil and one part turpentine, is excellent 
for cleaning furniture. 

A cloth dipped in salt and water, will clean straw matting very 
i.icely. Dry thoroughly. 

One teaspooful turpentine in the boiler will whiten clothes. 

Saleratus will clean hair brushes very nicely. 

GROSS & STRAUSS, 

IMPORTERS AND RETAILERS OF 

lEAL UGES, BMBEOIDIvI^If'S, 

Paris Kid Gloves, Dress Trimmings, Hosiery, Corsets, &c. &c. 
Nos. 44 and 46 Winter Street, - - - Boston. 



CLEANED AND PUT DOWN. 



All work promptly done. Satisfaction guaranteed. 

Apply to or Address, 

JOHN HOFFMAN, 

16 Bennington Street, - - - - East Boston, 

JAMES D. UNGOIN, 

PLMNVILLE, - - - - MASS. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



8i 



E, 0, & F, H, Merrill, 

mtwra ami §11 Itmtere. 



No, 42 Sudbury Street, 



BOSTOM. 



PROPRIETORS OF 



i(fl)1l 



MIlll''^' 



js^F^:Eirr 



oi 



Customers Supplied in East Boston Saturdays at 



STORE PRICES. 



82 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

A cup of water in the oven will prevent bread and cake from 
burning. 

Wheat flour made into a paste will take grease out of the most 
delicate fabric. 

One part of carbolic acid to five parts of water, is the best appli- 
cation for a burn. 

C. 
Kerosene oil will keep an iron sink smooth and black. 

YOUNG MAN GO TO 
ONE PRICE HAT CORNER IF YOU WANT A 

mmi HAT. . 

Trunks and Travelling Bags, 

AT MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, 

45 MERIDIAU STREET, CORITEE PARIS. 

THE TREMONT BOOT and SHOE COMPANY, 

MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN 

FME BOOTS AMB SHOES, 

43 Tremont Street, - - - - Boston. 



Importers & Jobbers of English Lacings, Boots &. Shoes to Measure a Specialty. 
N. A. MOSES, Manager. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



83 



iiJ 



^ 




-AND- 



B>®e>la^s im H:mmile> ^ M(@)^p 0mwMmm®>® 



DUCK, CHAINS, ANCHORS, PAINTS, 



OILS, VARNISHES, &c. 



98 AND 100 COMMERCIAL STREET, 



BOSTON. 

TIMOTHY L. MAYO. 
RICHARD A. ATWOOD. 



Agents for Tarr I Wonson's Patent Metallic or Copper Faint. 



84 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

Hot water applied to bumps on the little folks, is more agreeable 
and efficacious than cold. 

Pieces of horse radish will prevent scum on pickles. 

When the little ones wet their feet, rub them immediately with 
any liniment handy. 



A. G. W, 



Sage tea and borax will cure obstinate cases of dandruff. 



A. G. W. 



Insurance effected on vessel property by 

E. H. ATWOOD, 

98 COMMERCIAL STREET, BOSTON, MASS. 

Agent for Welifleet Marine Ins, Co,, of Wellfleet, Mass, 
and Equitable Marine Ins, Co,, of Provincetown, Mass, 



Bentley & Bailey, 



YARD AHE DOCK, 374 BOEDER STREET, 



p:ast boston, mass. 

F. W. BENTLEY. W. E. BAILEY. 



YACHT SPARS A SPECIALTY. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 85 



H, A, HARTLEY & CO, 

95 to 105 Washington Street. 
^ I ^ — ^ • 

New Stock ! Large Assortment 



WE HAVE THE NEW 



©KISPE GAIFBT 

^ IN 

Wilton, Axminster and Brussels. 



9 



Our FALL STOCK is COMPLETE. We shall CONTINUE 
our sale of 

Smyrna Carpets, Rugs & Mats, 

As Follows 

9 feet by 12 feet - - - - ^47-75 

7 feet by 11 feet : - - - 33-65 

6 feet by 9 feet - - . - i7-55 

4 feet by 7 feet - - - - 9.35 

3 feet by 6 feet - - - - 6-85 

2 feet 6 inches by 5 feet 6 inches, - 3.87 

2 feet 2 inches by 4 feet 9 inches - 3.15 

I foot 7 inches by 4 feet 6 inches, - 2.45 

I foot 6 inches by 3 feet . - - i-45 

BRUSSELS TAPESTRY 

75 Cents Per Yard. 

We have over 4000 yards in 26 different patterns, GOOD 
QUALITY and LATE STYLES. 



H. A. HARTLEY & CO, 

95 TO 105 WASHINGTON STREET. 



86 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



IF. 

If, gentle reader, you would learn to make, 

A first-class oyster stew, 
Go call on Mrs. Ryder, some fair day, 

And she will counsel you. 

If you would hear a wild and fearful tale, 

Of danger on the seas, 
'Tis told by Mrs. Adams, in a way 

That cannot fail to please. 

If you would see a silk quilt, beautiful 

And simple in design, 
I'm sure that Mrs. Noble will show hers ; 

She cannot well decline. 

If you've a thousand tickets you would sell, 

For any worthy cause. 
Seek help from Mrs. Gove, and she'll dispose 

Of them without a pause. 

If you would gain an invitation kind, 

To sail upon the sea. 
Ask Mrs. Porter. Mr. Porter's yacht 

Will at your service be. 

If you would learn to make delicious tarts, 

Flakey, and rich, and rare, 
Beg quiet Mrs. Morley for her rule, 

She'll not refuse your prayer. 

If you've a great rehearsal to conduct, 

And have no parlors large. 
Seek Mrs. Downing. All her house is yours, 

Quite free of any charge. 

If you would lessons take in classic lore, 

Latin and Greek and all, 
Miss Lizzie Downing will instruct you well, 

Don't be a fraid to call. 

If you would like to see a modern house. 

Stylish, and fresh, and new, 
Go visit Mrs. Bailey any day, 

And she will welcome you. 

If you would write in lines as musical 

And sweet as rippling rills, 
Take pen and paper to the parsonage, 

And learn of Mrs. Hills. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



87 



. 1. fluaiM A m. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 




(f) 

H 

z; 

I — I 

< 

o 
o 






FillllTElS' iUPPUlS. 




> 
O 

X 
> 



2 
in 



PAINTS, VARNISHES AND STAINS "IN 

PATENT STRIP CANS" FOR FAMILY 

USE A SPECIALTY. 



WHOLESALE and RETAIL 



18 DECATUR STREET, COR. LIVERPOOL, 

EAST BOSTON. -. 



SS Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



If you would know how the front seats in church 
Those farther back excel, 

Since Mrs. Tracey's change of pew, I think- 
That she could tell you well. 

If you would see a green and level lawn, 

Extensive, fresh and fair, 
You'll find one beautifying Monmouth Street, 

In Mrs. Fletcher's care. 

If you would learn to row with matchless skill, 

All up and down the bay, 
Perhaps Miss Rena Atwood will instruct 

Some calm and pleasant day. 

If you delight in Hawthorn's genius rare, 

And love to hear his praise, 
In Mrs. Shepard you will find a friend 

Who knows his works and ways. 

If you would learn about the mission-cause. 

No one can better tell 
Than Mrs. Phinney Every phase and form 

io her is known quite well. 

If you've a little child, and have no skill 

In making dresses gay. 
Ask Mrs. Allen. Pretty little gowns, 

She'll fashion any day. 

If, to preside at any meeting grand, 

Should one day be your fate, 
Mrs. McCausland well may show you how. 

With dignity and state. 

If you would see a dark-eyed baby-girl. 
Winsome, and fresh, and sweet, 

Mrs. Montgomery's little Alice rules 
At 91 Trenton Street. 

If you are not acquainted with the man 

Resembling our M. I)., 
Seek Mrs. Blanchard. She will introduce 

Her husband unto thee. 

If you have charge of tableaux, and you need 

A grandma grave and sweet, 
Put Mrs. Nelson Williams in costume, 

Your picture is complete. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 89 



NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO 



Assets, Jan. i, 1882, 



47,228,781.64 



Liabilities, Mass. Standard, . 40,347,501.00 

Surplus, ... . 6,881,280.64 

New York State, over . 10,000,000.00 

Policies in force, . . . 53^92 7 

Insuring .... 151,760,824 

All kinds of Life Endowment and Tontine policies 

issued. 

New England Branch Office, Rialto Building, 

Corner of Milk and Devonshire Streets, 
BEN. S. CALEF, . . Manager. 

GoRHAM Bros., 

Emm^ SMp tii Sip Filitif i^ 

29 West Sumner Street, 

^:I:§§i^^^: EAST BOSTON. 



90 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



If you would spend a pleasant afternoon, 

And laugh the hours away, 
Go visit Mrs. Hartford, you will wish 

That you might always stay. 

If you would know the legends of our church 

In days of long ago, 
Go hear them from the lips of Mrs. Howe, 

In accents faint and low. 

If you are choosing a committee, wise 

And energetic too, 
Add Mrs. Wood. With patience she will strive 

Always her part to do. 

If you're invited to a candy-pull, 

And you would like to know, 
How long to pull to make the candy light, 

To Mrs. Coltman go. 

If you would know a lady, generous 

And bountiful indeed. 
Be introduced some day to Mrs. Pease, 

And tell her all you need. 

If you are feeling rather out of sorts. 

And weary and depressed. 
Invite Miss Susie Mayo to your home, 

Her spirits are the best. 

If you would know how fair and beautiful 

Are Lynnfield's quiet dales. 
Miss Clara Robinson can well describe 

Its mountains and its vales. 

If you would hear a fair report and true. 

Of camp meeting this year, 
I think that Mrs. Chandler can describe 

Its glory and good cheer. 

If you have never seen old Salisbury town, 

And wish to visit there, 
Ask Mrs. French to let you go with her 

And breathe its quiet air. 

If you would like to know how great a pain 

Small hnger-felons cause, 
I'm sure that Mrs. Towle could tell you well 

Without a moments pause. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



91 



W. m, WAMA^MA. 



m^^ 



^w BtP#®if 



wm 



■m Jiw lilt 



wit 



Qji ^^^^ 






iSf ooi€ ^ mm 



Si lamtvif Strttti 



i^©ST#lf. 



EL 



ABAMmA* 



92 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 

DAVID W. GUSIING, 

Manufacturer and Retail Dealer in 

RANGES, 

HOLLOW WARE, IRON SINKS, STOVE 
LININGS, WASH BOILERS, &c. 

28 and 30 UNION and 17 FRIEND STREETS. 



(^^lil^ia^ W^mwmmtMw' AMeB€@il 1?@« 



Harvey N. Shepard, 
counsellor at law, 

40 WATER STREET, - ROOMS 18 and 19, 

BOSTON. 

Residence, 57 Monmouth Street, 

EAST BOSTON. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 93 

AEEAM MMGl & m. 

IMPORT DIRECT FROM MANUFACTORIES IN 

Sn^lundj '!Fmme^ §^i/inany^ 0hinu and Jupun, 

FRENCH CHINA 

IN whit;e and decorated. 

Ci Eairaved anil Pressed bare. 

ORNAMENTAL AND PLAIN 

Breakfast, Dinner and Tea Sets, 

In Porcelain, Semi-Porcelain and Stone Ware. 
IN GLASS. CHINA, EARTHEN, STONE AND TERRA-COTTA. 



Services of every description, for Household, 
Hotel and Steamer Use. 



m WtMmim 



89, 9 1 & 9 3 Franklin, & 2 1 1 to 2 1 7 Devonshire Sts. 



94 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



YE MALES. 

For " firstly" our pastor we mention, 
Please give to his sermon attention ; 

We also might state his name, Hills ; 
Then our financial brother, E. Langell, 
Appears on our list. He's an angel 

For working and paying our bills. 

We now are expected to handle a 
Class leader, our brother Chandler, 

Stalwart of camp-meeting fame. 
Then, also, our Western friend. Noble. 
Who rhymes, you will notice, with trouble, 

Noble by nature and name. 

And our black whiskered brother, Montgomery, 
Who when put on a committee helps form a re- 
ally successful affair every way. 
With the name of our friend. Silas Porter, 
We cannot find rhyme as we " orter" 
Bui for all that report him "O.K." 

We welcome our cjuiet friend. Coltman, 
The' one you should never assault, man, 

For the size of his biceps is known. 
Then strong in conviction, our Ryder, 
A temperance man, even to cider. 

And our genial friend, Samuel Doane. 

Then we advertise freely our Downing, 
Contractor, we trust he's not frowning. 

And agree not to rhyme him again. 
Here appears too the broad shouldered Hart- 
Ford, whose name will rhyme only in part ; 

And the boat-racing muscular Crane. 

Then follows a Steward, our Afwood ; 
We cannot find any phrase that would 

Do justice to him or our Gove. 
The former attends to finances ; 
The latter our pleasure enhances. 

For HE let us rhyme him with " stove," 

Young ladies fjust finished at Madam's). 
Say " de trap," so we of our Adams, 

When we find but one rhyme, we can try; 
We advise him take warning in season. 
Next time choose a name within reason. 

Like that of our brother, James Nye; 

A man always willing to render 
Assistance. We lastly extend a 

Greeting to Samuel Wood, 
A brother with jokes always ready. 
But with age will improve and grow steady, 

And, we trust, will reform and be good. 



Our Housekeepers' Friend. 95 

fit®, f * ■®l©rty A i^t 

SOS TVJ^t^TllJSGtTOlS ST. 

2nd door from West St. 
SPECIALTIES IN 

Liiiii* lliiii^ i Iifeat^i Weil. 

Carefully selected stock of 

Jersey Ms ad JacbtsJrapSMs, 

SILK CIRCULAIIS AND DOLMAHS. 

Low priced, medium and fine Underwear 

Flannels for Ladies & Children. 

HOOP SKIRTS, BUSTLES, &c., &c. 

INFANTS' LONG AND SHORT DRESSES, 

Worsted Goods, Bonnets, Flannels, &c., &c. 
Everything new and of latest style and design. 



g6 Our Housekeepers' Friend. 



AWm A €#« 



'm JL^ i) MJILJ^L dik ^^yr (^ig^ ^^^^^r® 



WHOLESALE DEALERS IN 






Packers and. Iii^i>ectors« 

FRAMES' WHARF, EAST BOSTON, MASS. 
JAMES TOWNSEND, 

Hoal Estate ad Insurance Hpncj, 

Money to loan on first mortgages of Real 
Estate. Houses insured in first-class companies ; 
Policies written in E. Boston, and insured against 
damages from Lightning. Houses for sale in 
good locations, also some good Building Lots For 
Sale. Good House Lots for sale in 3d Section, 
East Boston. For terms and locations apply to 

JAMES TOWNSEND, 

Room No. 8, Masonic Building, East Boston, Mass. 



Ill iiMBilWlAM 

CLOTHING HOUSE, 




680 to 684 WASHINGTON ST.. BOSTON, 

CORNER OF BEACH STREET. 



Men's, Boys' and Children's Clothing 

AND 

QEHTLIMIH'S FlIBNISHMQ &0m 

GEO. W. WARREN, Manager. 



'▼, m* 



bMMT 



\^)S- 



m jiw lUii 






IlKl ^ 



11 



s 



m 



mA 



r f ' l^lL l^^l/Jk 



EDWARD T. PIGEON, 



— DKAI.ER IN- 



Mm B@®ti,j Bkmu mi libbiii» 



14? MEBIDIilM STHEET. 



EAST BOSTON. 



Repairing neatly done at a Low Price. 



?,uf^?^ P^^LIC LIBRARY 

, „ IlllllillH 

3 9999 05987 711 6 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



'rn^i 















M^ 


w^a 


-'-' i 1^.^ 


^am 


^-^v- "jt^m 


'■ 13 


* •• < 


WFmiM 



W ;;-V 



