Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



IIIIIIII1III 



► 



600079374 



V* 



a 



WHOLESOME COOKERY 



"WHOLESOME COOKERY 



BY 



MADAME MAEIE DE JONCOUKT 



/X& 01 ^ 




LONDON 
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH & CO., 1, PATERNOSTER SQUARE 

1882 



2L9 . I ■ 171 • 



(The rights of translation and of reproduction are reserved.) 



PREFACE. 



The following " menus," and the recipes contained in 
this book, have, with a few exceptions, been carried 
out in a small household, with one cook, and without 
the assistance of a kitchenmaid. They may seem 
elaborate at first to those young housekeepers who 
are ignorant of cooking, and who think that fresh 
rolls, ices, and a variety of made dishes, must always 
be had from a confectioner. My advice is this : " Do 
not serve at your table dishes that cannot be made 
at home." 

The so-called plain cooking which exists in many 
English houses is extravagant cooking. A "plain 
cook " does not know how to use up her small scraps- 
of meat, fish, or vegetables ; she has little knowledge 
of soups or sauces, and has no notion that in throwing 
away a spoonful of gravy she is wasting the foundation 
of a good dish. 

A plain cook — I mean one who can roast and bake 
well — ought, with a few directions, to be able to make 



VI PREFACE. 

almost any dish described in this book. She must have 
patience and perseverance. So must her mistress. She 
must attend to the smallest details ; she must take as 
much pride in serving up a plain dish of rissoles as 
the most elaborate made dish. If a dish be too salt, 
or too hot with pepper, it is a disgrace to the cook to 
send it to table, as she could, by a little contrivance, 
have remedied the defect and saved annoyance to her 
mistress. 

I am not giving directions for preparing meat, fish, 
roasting, etc., in this book ; every mistress will provide 
her cook with a " Mrs. Beeton " or an " Eliza Acton," 
one of which no kitchen should be without. 

Where quantities are given in these recipes, those 
quantities must be carefully followed, as the success 
of a dish depends on the accuracy with which the 
directions are followed. The time for cooking certain 
dishes has intentionally not been given. A cook must 
understand her stove, and gradually calculate for 
herself the times required. 

The following dishes have been made on a close 
range in the winter, and on a Leoni's gas-stove in the 
summer, and the time for cooking each dish has varied 
according to which stove was used. 

In stewing meats the cook must remember that 
they must simmer, and never boil. If they boil, the 
meat will be hard. The same with sauces or custards 



PREFACE. Vll 

in which there are yolks of eggs ; if they boil they 
will curdle. Again, with frying, the directions must 
be followed absolutely ; if they are not, the things fried 
will be brown, greasy, and indigestible. 

As the dishes come out from table, the cook must 
remove the remains of each dish, no matter how small, 
on to clean plates; the remains of gravy into jars. 
The next morning the mistress should find everything 
in order in her larder; she will at once see what 
remains, and give directions how each article can be 
used. • 

The scraps of meat and bones will be simmered down 
for stock or gravy, and on no account must the stock 
of yesterday be added to what is made to-day. Use 
some of to-day's to lengthen out what was left yester- 
day, if necessary ; but if you add always yesterday's 
stock to all that you are making fresh, you will have 
sour stock and gravy at the end of the week, and 
must not be astonished if your family have indigestion 
and are told by the doctor, " Never touch soups and 
sauces." With great respect for the very variable 
views of the medical profession on the subject of 
wholesome food, I would suggest that "never touch 
sour soups and sour sauces " would express as much 
as their experience really justifies on this subject. 

The scraps of each day must, then, be used up each 
day, and not all collected together to make a sour con- 



Till PREFACE. 

coction at the end of the week. The scraps of meat 
— those not required for stock — will, used together, 
make . rissoles, savoury moulds, salads, curries, or 
" grating" The scraps of vegetables will make a soup, 
a salad, a "chartreuse/* a " mac^doine," "gratin," or 
curry. The fish will make patties, curries, rissoles, 
"gratins," or a mayonnaise salad. 

If you wish to have wholesome cookery, make a 
rule never to hive bottled sauces in the house. Your 
sauces must be made with fresh meat and vegetables. 
I make one exception in favour of mushroom ketchup 
(as it is not always possible to get mushrooms), though 
I think it is better to do without it, unless you make 
your own mushroom ketchup and bottle it in very 
small bottles, so as to use the contents of each bottle 
as soon as it is opened. 

Do not allow perquisites. Eemember that roast- 
beef dripping and the skimmings from the "pot au 
feu " are the best fats for frying ; other drippings are 
also good (when properly prepared), and do not let 
your cook persuade you to the contrary. If you have 
not enough dripping, you must, of course, supplement 
it with the best olive oil, butter, or lard ; but remember 
that lard is the least nice medium for frying in. In 
a household of five persons all told, and using on an 
average twenty-five shillingsworth of meat a week, 
of which one joint is a sirloin, there ought to be always 



PREFACE. IX 

enough dripping for ordinary frying purposes. For 
instance, a sirloin of ten pounds will give about a pound 
of dripping ; a leg of English mutton will give about 
three-quarters of an ounce of dripping to every pound 
of meat ; a shoulder will usually give rather more. 
Dripping and other fats, if properly clarified and kept 
in a cool place, can be used over and over again. The 
cook must have two jars of fat always ready for use — 
one which she will keep to fry her fish in, and one in 
which to fry her meats and vegetables. 

Impress economy on your cook, but let it be dis- 
tinctly understood that economy means knowing how 
to use things properly, and does not mean parsimony. 
Using stale eggs, commonly called "pudding eggs," 
and salt butter for cooking is extravagant stinginess, 
and is not economy. The result will probably be a 
failure, while a different dish, with properly chosen 
but cheaper materials, would have been a success. It 
is not economical to give beefsteaks in the kitchen 
and use rumpsteaks in the parlour. A pound and a 
quarter of beefsteak will not go as far as a pound 
of rumpsteak ; besides which, the beefsteak, usually 
tough, will have to be stewed, and that necessitates 
stock and vegetables. I do not advise " locking up " 
if you want to be really economical — I mean in the 
sense of measuring out spoonfuls of tea and lumps of 
sugar. Of course it is not advisable to leave out large 
quantities, such as a chest of tea or a bag of sugar. Let 



X PREFACE. 

there always be plenty in your cook's charge, and 
make her responsible for it. 

It is wise to let your cook know your estimate of 
what a week's feeding ought to cost. From twelve to 
fourteen shillings per head a week is ample, and you 
ought to be able to live exceedingly well on that. This 
is the calculation for a London household, where you 
have even to buy parsley. If the weekly books are 
higher than they should be, it is quite as often the 
fault of the mistress as of the cook. Carelessness in 
ordering is as great a fault as carelessness in con- 
suming. 

I often hear a mistress say, " My cook has so little 
idea !" Where is she to get her ideas ? She may be 
twenty-five years old and have lived in four situations; 
her only ideas are what she has gathered in those 
previous situations. You, on the other hand, have 
lunched and dined out frequently, have probably 
travelled and dined at good restaurants; your husband 
belongs to a club, and can give you the benefit of his 
experience ; therefore it is you who ought to bring, the 
ideas. 

The comfort and, I may say, health of your house 
depend on your knowledge, and the management of 
the detail of a house really takes very little time. An 
hour every morning is all that is required. 



PREFACE. , XI 

In ordering a dinner — I mean a dinner of several 
courses — use judgment. Your cook has only one pair of 
hands ; so do not order several dishes that all require 
attendance at the same time. Do not, for instance, 
order three dishes running that require frying. 

In writing out your bills of fare, write them out in 
English, except, of course, in those cases where the dish 
is a purely foreign one. For instance, a "risotto," a 
" mayonnaise," and other dishes of that sort cannot be 
translated into English, there being no equivalent for 
them. To translate " saddle of mutton," " mint sauce," 
or " plum-pudding " into French, or what is intended 
to be French, is a barbarism. 

I must apologize if I have occasionally betrayed 
the secret of some favourite dish revealed by a friend. 
I have learned recipes or had suggestions for recipes 
from many sources, sometimes in a friend's house, 
sometimes in small inns, especially in France and 
Italy, where the man or woman who waits at table is 
usually the cook of the establishment. 

MARIE DE JONCOURT. 

April, 1882. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Twenty-pour Different Dinnees ... ... ... 1 

DOUPS ... ... ... ... ... ... JLU 

A lo«* ... ... ••• ... ... ... ... *i ■ 

BAUCES ... ... ... ... ... ... 4o 

Vegetables, etc. ... ... ... ... ... 57 

Meats and Birds ... ... ... 92 

Q W JCETS ... ... ... ... ... ... JLaO 

Savoury Dishes ... ... ... ... ... 155 

JuBEAD) ETC* ... ... ... ... ... ... XO«b 

Sundries ... ... ... ... ... ... 168 

INDEX ... ■•• ... ••• ... .,, 177 



WHOLESOME COOKEBY. 



> 



TWENTY-FODTR DIFFERENT DINNERS. 

N.B. — No vegetables have been specified with the Boasts. It is sup- 
posed that vegetables " in season " will be provided. 

Dinner 1. 

Pot au feu (Recipe 1). 

Fried Soles and Tomato Sauce (93). 

Roast Partridges. 

Galantine of Cold Beef (238). Vegetable Salad (209). 

Set Cream (337). 



Dinner 2. 

Cond^ Soup (Recipe 22). 

Cod and Bechamel Sauce (98). 

Roast Beef. 

Gratin of Jerusalem Artichokes (167). 

Coffee Mousse (343). 

B 



WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

Dinner S. 

Clear Soup (Recipe 2). 

Skate " k l'ltalienne " (66). 

Beefsteak Pie. 

Rice Pudding (359). 

Toasted Cheese (405). 



Dinner 4. 



Lentil Soup (Recipe 23). 

Mackerel " au beurre noir " (70). 

Aiguebelle Fritters (210). 

Roast Pheasant. 

Sardine Salad (397). 

Winter Pudding (310). 



Dinner 5. 



Tomato and Pumpkin Soup (Recipe 19). 

Turbot and Walnut Sauce (89). 

Cutlets and Tossed Cauliflowers (143). 

Roast Turkey. 

Potato Salad (134). 

Marmalade Pudding (369). 



TWENTY-FOUR DIFFERENT DINNERS. 

Dinner 6. 

Soubise Soup (Recipe 17). 

Fried Smelts (72). 
Cauliflower Fritters (141). 

Roast Ducks. 

Risotto k la Milanaise (203). 

Almond Puddings (367). 



Dinner 7. 



Turnip and Rice Soup (Recipe 32). 

Broiled Whitings (58a). 

Chicken "k la V&ez" (271> 

Roast Fillet of Beef (234a). 

Beetroot " k la Cr&ne " (182). 

Tea Cream (333). 



Dinner 8. 



Chestnut Soup (Recipe 12). 

Soles "k la Parisienne " (50). 

Broiled Fillets of Beef and Fried Potatoes (129). 

Jambon au Tin de Madfcre (296). 

Genoa Cream (330). 

Macaroni " au gratin " (398). 



WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

Dinner 9. 

Solferino Soup (Recipe 8). 

Fried Sole "Ua mattre d'hdtel " (124). 

Wild Ducks. Potatoes Soufflees (135). 

Pur^e of Lentils (195). 

Orange Cream (331). 



Dinner 10. 

Julienne Soup (Recipe 26). 

Herrings " au beurre noir " (70b). 

Mutton Cutlets and Celery Sauce (113). 

Dressed Brussels Sprouts (146b). 

Buff Pudding. 



Dinner 11. 



Clear Soup (Recipe 2). 

" Suffren " Eel (80). 

Fried Chicken (273). 

"Civet" of Hare (292). 

Broiled Cutlets. PureSe of Chestnuts (191). 

Eggs " k la tripe " (221). 

Apple Charlotte (375). 

Cheese Pudding (402). 



TWENTY- FOUR DIFFERENT DINNERS. 

Dinner 12. 

Potato Soup (Recipe 40). 

Baked Turbot (84). 

Chickens " k la Champenoise " (270). 

Fillet of Beef (234). 

Carrots " k la Poulette " (169). 

Egg Curry (188). 

Apple Tart (376). 

Claret Jelly (378). 



Dinner 13. 

Mulligatawny Soup (Recipe 45). 

Fried Soles. Horse-radish Butter (123). 

Fricandeau of Veal (248). 

Salsifis Fritters (161). 

Partridges. 
Savoury Oysters (408). 

Fig Mould (318). 
Parfait au Cafe (390). 



Dinner 14. 

Monaco Soup (Recipe 41). 

Sole " au gratin " (53). 

Cutlets " k la Soubise " (112). 

Stewed Duck and Turnips (277). 

Chartreuse de Legumes (208). 

Sweet Omelet (352). 

Orange Water Ice (385). 



6 WHOLESOME COOKEBY. 

Dinner 15. 

Cr&y Soup (Recipe 24). 

Turbot. Sauce " Poivrade " (100). 

Fillets of Beef Saut&» (232). 

Timbale de Legumes (190). 

Roast Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts (278). 

Italian Eggs (cold) (211), and Green Salad. 

Plum-pudding (320). 

CEufs aux pistaches (351). 



Dinner Iff. 



Macedonian Soup (Recipe 4). 

Cod and Oyster Sauce. 

Langue de Bceuf Brais6e (260). 

Pastry Rissoles (306). 

Roast Mutton. 

Turnips "au gratin" (174). 

Banana Fritters (312). 

Almond Cream (367a). 



Dinner 17. 



Rice and Pumpkin; Soup (Recipe 31). 

Boiled Salmon. Gherkin Sauce (107). 

Partridges " k la Parisienne " (285). 

Croustades (299). 



TWENTY-FOUR DIFFERENT DINNERS. 7 

Broiled Steaks. Potatoes «k la maftre d'hdtel " (133). 

Macaroni " en Timbale " (185). 
Marmalade Pudding and Brandy Butter (369 and 128). 

Bavaroise (329). 



Dinner 18. 

Macaroni Soup (Recipe 7). 

Eel "k la minute "(81). 

Cutlets with Hashed Leeks (152). 

Fried Oysters (307). 

Roast Chickens. 

Omelet "kte, Robespierre " (353). 

Anchovy Toast (411). 



DINNERS WITHOUT MEAT. 

Dinner L 

Lent Soup (Recipe 10). 

Bouille k Baisse (61). 

Celery Fritters (165). 

Croustades of Mushrooms (180). 

Pur^e of Sorrel (148). 

Pain Perdu (313). 

Prune Mould (319). 

Stewed Cheese (404). 



8 WHOLESOME COOKEET. 

Dinner 2. 

Oysters. 
Italian Soup (made with milk instead of stock) 

(Recipe 6). 

Whitings " k la Orly " (55). 

Turnips " en Poulette" (173). 

Macaroni " en Timbale " (185). 

Omelet " k la Soubise " (226). 

Maraschino Toast (315). 

Vanilla Cream Ice (388). 



Dinner 3. 

Peasant Soup (made with milk instead of stock) 

(Recipe 9). 

Flemish Mackerel (69). 

Stuffed Artichokes (154a). 

Risotto k la Napolitaine (204). 

Cauliflower a au gratin " (140). 

Cabinet Pudding (309). 

Fruit Cream Ice (389). 



Dinner 4. 



Fonds d'Artichauds Soup (made with milk instead of 

stock) (Recipe 13). 

Skate " au beurre noir " (65). 

Poached Eggs and Tomato Sauce (218). 



TWENTY-FOUR DIFFERENT DINNERS. 

Potatoes « k la CrSme " (136). 
French Pancakes (323). 
Chocolate Cream (335). 
Anchovy Toast (411). 



Dinner 6. 

Herb Soup (Recipe 16). 

Soles, " Indian way of cooking" (63). 

Pur^e of White Haricot Beans (199). 

Curried Vegetables (187). 

Caramel Rice Mould (358). 

Coffee Souffle (362). 

Hot Sandwiches (407). 



Dinner 6. 

Tomato and Okra Soup (Recipe 20). 

Baked Gurnet (82). 

Punfe of Chestnuts (191). 

Omelet and Tomatoes (225). 

Vegetable Salad (209). 

Cr&ne Bruise (cold) (327). 

Fig Mould (318). 

Fondue (399). 

Lemon Water Ice (385). 



10 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



SOOTS. 

L — Pot an feu. 

Put in a large saucepan 6 or 7 pounds of silver side 
of the round of beef, 5 quarts of cold water. Before it 
begins to boil, skim it very carefully. When all the 
scum has been removed, add 5 turnips, 6 carrots, 1 leek, 
2 parsnips, 2 large onions, 1 good bunch of parsley, 1 
head of celery, 6 cloves, a few peppercorns, 1 ball of 
browning, salt to taste (about 2 tablespoonfuls for this 
quantity) ; simmer very slowly for 5 or 6 hours. Be- 
fore using, strain through a hair sieve. The beef is 
good hot or cold, but especially cold. This soup ought 
to be perfectly clear. If it is not so, it is either because 
some of the scum has not been removed, or principally 
because the soup has been allowed to boil. If the beef 
is used hot, serve a piquante or tomato sauce with it, 
or thicken a little of the soup and serve that. The 
vegetables can be chopped, pressed into a mould, and 
turned out cold with a mayonnaise sauce. 

2. — English Clear Seup. 

3 to 4 pounds of gravy beef. Cut the meat into 
pieces, and fry them in a little butter to colour them ; 



SOUPS. 11 

put them into 3 or 4 quarts of cold water, let them 
simmer, and skim carefully. When no scum is left, 
put into the saucepan 2 carrots, 2 turnips, half a head 
of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 4 cloves, 2 blades 
of mace, some peppercorns, and salt to taste. Simmer 
gently from 6 to 8 hours, strain through a hair sieve. 
When cold, skim off any fat there may be. 

N.B. — Soup made in this manner should be perfectly 
clear. If a cook requires to " clear " her soup, as some 
do, with whites of eggs, etc., it is only because she has 
not taken sufficient care at first with it. Her soup 
must simmer, and never boil. If once it boils, it will 
become thick and muddy. 

3. — Francatelli's Bonne Femme Soup. 

Chop up finely 1 cucumber, 4 lettuces, 1 handful of 
chervil ; place these in a small saucepan with 2 ounces 
of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; simmer 
gently for about 10 minutes, then add a tablespoonful 
of flour ; moisten with 3 pints of veal stock, stir over 
the fire until the soup boils, then set it on one side to 
simmer; now stir into it very carefully 6 yolks of 
eggs, half a pint of cream, and' a small dessert-spoonful 
of sugar: 

N.B. — Some may think this soup an expensive one; 
It need not be so if the housekeeper will arrange to 
have for the previous day's dinner a boiled knuckle of 
veal, or a dish of calves' feet — 2 are sufficient— as the 



12 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

water in which they have been boiled is the proper 
stock for this soup. She can also arrange that her 
sweet, the day she requires the soup, should be one 
necessitating whites of eggs. 

4. — Macedonian Soup, 

Put at the bottom of a stewpan 2 slices of ham 
or a piece of lean bacon, then 2 carrots, 2 potatoes, 
2 turnips, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, all cut up very 
small ; add your stock ; season with pepper and salt. 
Let it simmer very gently until all the vegetables are 
reduced to a pulp; if too thick, add a little stock 
before you finish simmering. Now rub it all through 
a hair sieve, and before dishing up add a. little cream. 

5. — Livonian Soup. 

Chop up, scald, and drain the following vegetables : 
— carrots, turnips, parsley, leeks, and onions. Fry 
them in butter; add a couple of small handfuls of 
scalded rice, and the quantity of stock you require. 
Let it simmer until quite done. Pass it through a 
sieve, add a small quantity of boiled cream, stir in 
a few yolks of eggs, and pour over some fried sippets. 

6. — Italian Soup. 

Parboil separately some heads of celery, cabbage, 
carrots, turnips, and leeks; drain them and chop 



SOUPS. 13 

them up small ; put them in a saucepan with butter, 
pepper, and salt ; let them simmer gently ; add stock 
and some finely chopped fowl livers; then add some 
previously boiled macaroni, some grated Parmesan 
cheese ; simmer all together and serve. 

7. — Macaroni Soup. 

Scald some macaroni in salt and water ; put it in 
some good stock, and simmer till quite cooked ; serve 
with grated Parmesan and Gruy&re cheeses.. This 
makes a good and simple white macaroni soup, if 
milk and a little butter, pepper, and salt are used in 
place of the stock. 

8. — Solferino Soup 

Is made with French beans, white haricot beans, 
new potatoes, young carrots, young green peas, a few 
spoonfuls of tomato pur^e, chopped parsley, chervil, 
celery, all thoroughly simmered in stock till quite 
cooked. Add in. the tureen some fried sippets. 

9. — Peasant Soup. 

Chop cabbage, carrots, onions, and celery; toss 
them in butter a pale brown ; add a little stock, and 
simmer very gently for 3 hours ; now add some water 
that haricot beans or lentils have been cooked in, 
simmer another half-hour ; now add some very finely 
chopped sorrel and lettuce; let it all come to a boil, and 
pour it into the tureen over some fried sippets. 



14 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

10. — Lent Soup. 

1 tablespoonful of cornflour, 1 small teacupful of 
milk; mix smooth, and add \\ pint of veal stock; put 
it in a saucepan, stir it over the fire. Put 2 yolks 
of eggs in a cup, break them with a spoon. When the 
soup is no longer boiling, add a little by degrees to 
the yolks of eggs, and then stir if, all into the soup. 
Now stir in a little cream or butter and serve. 

11. — Oyster Soup. 

1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour in a bason, mixed 
with a little cold milk and thoroughly blended without 
lumps ; to this add 1 pint of good white stock, 1 gill 
of cream, salt and pepper. When it begins to simmer, 
drop in 1 dozen of oysters and simmer a few minutes. 

12. — Chestnut Soup. 

Take the shells off some chestnuts ; put them in 
boiling water, until they can easily be peeled. Now 
let them simmer, but not boil, in your stock ; flavour 
with pepper and salt. When quite cooked, pass all 
through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire, add a 
little cream, and serve with fried sippets. 

13. — Fonds d'Artichauds Soup. 

The underparts of some French artichokes; boil 
them till done in some water in which you have blended 



SOUPS. 15 

a little flour, and flavoured with salt and lemon-juice. 
When cooked, mash them and add them to some good 
white stock, simmer together for some time, pass 
•through a hair sieve, put back on the fire, add some 
butter and cream, and serve. 

This soup is very good made with the canned. 
artichokes, which are already cooked, and would not, 
of course, require boiling separately. 

14. — White Sago Soup. 

1£ ounce of sago, 1 quart milk, salt, and pepper ; boil 
it all together till the sago is cooked (if too thick add 
stock or water) ; add 1 ounce of butter, stir it into 
the soup, and serve. 

15. — Brown Sago Soup. 

Proceed as above, only use stock instead of milk. 

16. — Herb Soup. 

Wash 1 handful of sorrel, chop it up, put it in a 
saucepan with 1 ounce of butter ; stew for about half 
an hour, add water or stock or half milk and water, 
pepper and salt, and 1 teacupful of fine bread-crumbs. 
Stew from 1£ to 2 hours ; beat 1 yolk of egg in the 
tureen ; pour the hot soup over, stirring all the time 
with a wooden spoon. This recipe is good with 
lettuces and spinach mixed. 



16 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

17. — Soubise Soup. 

1J pint of water, half a pint of milk, 1£ ounce of 
butter, 2 onions, 5 ounces of bread, the yolks of one or 
two eggs or 1 gill of cream, pepper and salt to taste. 
Cut the bread into very thin slices, boil it in the water 
and milk, with the onions thinly sliced ; add the butter, 
pepper, and salt ; when thoroughly stewed to a pulp, 
rub through a wire sieve. Now set it again on the 
fire, and let it simmer for a few minutes, and just 
before sending it to table add the cream or the yolks 
of eggs. 

18. — Barley Soup. 

Half an ounce of butter, 1 dessert-spoonful of pre- 
pared barley blended together; add 1 pint of white 
stock or milk, flavour with pepper and salt, boil 
together for 15 minutes, and serve with fried sippets. 
Must be qvAte smooth. 

19. — Tomato and Pumpkin Soup. 

Stew together equal quantities of tomatoes and 
pumpkin with a small quantity of onion, pepper and 
salt, stock or water. When quite cooked, strain 
through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire, add a 
little milk and butter or cream. Serve with fried 
sippets. 



SOUPS. 17 



20. — Tomato and Okra Soup. 

Take a tin of the puree of tomatoes, pass it 
through a sieve, add equal quantity of water or stock 
or milk and water, a little onion and dried vegetables, 
pepper and salt, half a small tin of okras. Stew gently 
for three-quarters of an hour ; add in at the last a small 
lump of butter. 

N.B. — This soup is, of course, excellent with fresh 
tomatoes and vegetables, but as a winter soup with 
canned and dried vegetables is strongly to be recom- 
mended. If preferred plain, leave out the okra, and 
thicken with bread-crumbs or sago or rice. 



21. — Piedmontese Soup. 

Let some rice soak in hot water for about 1 hour ; 
let a cabbage (broken in pieces) soak also in hot 
water and salt about the same time. Drain both rice 
and cabbage. Place them in a saucepan with butter 
or dripping, a chopped onion, pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg ; add either water or stock or gravy. Let all this 
stew together for some time, arid just before serving 
add some grated Parmesan cheese. 

Another way. — Stew some cabbages with carrots, 
onions, bunch of herbs, and plenty of butter. When 
nearly cooked, add some stock, or the water the cab- 
bages have cooked in, and fine bread-crumbs. Let 



18 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

all stew for a few minutes, and add grated cheeses, 
Parmesan and Gruy&re mixed. 

22. — Condi Soup. 

Stew some red haricot beans with a few vegetables 
and stock. When thoroughly cooked and flavoured 
with pepper and salt, pass it all through a hair sieve .; 
put it back for a few minutes on the fire, add a small 
lump of butter, and serve with fried sippets. 

N.B.— This soup can be made without meat stock. 

23. — Lentil Soup. 

Made exactly like the above, using lentils instead 
of red haricot beans. 

24. — Crfcy Soup. 

Chop up some' young and red carrots, put them in 
a saucepan with a lump of butter, add a pinch of 
sugar. Let this cook very gently, keeping the sauce- 
pan well covered, but occasionally stirring. Next Add 
some stock and a raw peeled potato; simmer very 
gently ; flavour, of course, with pepper and salt. Now 
pass through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire, add 
some stock, let it come to one boil, and serve with 
fried sippets. 

Another way. — Cut into pieces some carrots, turnips, 
onions, and celery. Scald them in boiling water, strain 



SOUFB. 19 

them, and put them on a slow fire with a good lump 
of butter, a couple of thin slices of ham and your 
stock ; pass through a hair sieve after it has cooked a 
short time. Now put it all back on the fire, and let it 
stew gently for two hours ; skim it carefully and serve 
with sippets. 

A third way is to add rice after the above has 
been through a hair sieve, and dispense with the 
sippets. 

25. — Faubonne Soup. 

Cut in shreds some lettuces> sorrel, and celery ; 
toss them in 1 ounce of butter with some small 
onions (previously scalded), add your stock, flavour 
with pepper and salt, stew till cooked. At the last 
moment add a pur^e of peas and serve. 

26. — Julienne Soup. 

3 carrots, 3 turnips, white part of 3 heads of 
celery, some leeks, and a little onion. Cut all these 
into thin shreds, and put them into a stewpan with 
2 ounces of butter, a little salt, a small lump of sugar ; 
atir lightly over the fire, and fry of a light colour. 
Then place it in a saucepan with your stock, set it to 
simmer, and remove all the scum very carefully as it 
rises ; add 2 cabbage lettuces, a little tarragon and 
chervil, a little sorrel. Simmer till the vegetables are 
completely cooked. 



20 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

27. — Lettuce Soup. 

Scald some young lettuces, drain them thoroughly ; 
put them to simmer in some stock or broth, until 
they are thoroughly cooked. Take them off the fire ; 
mash them up as smooth as possible with a wooden 
spoon; place all again on the fire; add more stock, 
if necessary ; simmer again for a few minutes, with a 
little cream, and serve. 

28. — Spring Soup. 

Cut carrots, turnips, and leeks into small pieces ; 
toss them in 1 ounce of butter, stirring all the time ; 
when slightly brown, put them in some stock and 
simmer for about 1 hour. Then add some peas, French 
beans, and asparagus tops (all previously boiled) ; 
simmer again for 8 or 10 minutes, skim carefully, and 
serve. 

28a. — Plain Bread Soup. 

1£ pint of cold water, 3 ounces of bread in a lump, 
1 ounce of butter, 1 yolk of egg, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, a little pepper. Put the bread in a saucepan, with 
the water and half an ounce of butter, the pepper and 
salt ; let it simmer gently for 1 £ hour ; stir it occasion- 
ally, and break the bread with a wooden spoon when it 
has become quite soft. Just before dishing up the soup 
stir in the other half-ounce of butter and the yolk of 



SOUPS. 21 

egg ; let it simmer a moment, but not boil, or the egg 
will curdle. 

29. — Plain Vegetable Soup (without Meat). 

Carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, celery, pepper, and 
salt. Cut all into small pieces; toss them up in 1 
or 2 ounces of butter, till they are thoroughly browned. 
Place all this in the saucepan with the water some 
lentils or haricot beans have been boiled in ; simmer 
for 4 hours. Put in your tureen some fried sippets ; 
pour the hot soup over. 

30. — Simple Pea Soup. 

Put some young green peas in some boiling water ; 
pepper and salt. When thoroughly cooked, add 2 
ounces of fresh butter. Pour this in the tureen, over 
some sippets already fried in butter (those who object 
to butter may use 1 or 2 gills of cream). 

31. — Bice and Pumpkin Soup. 

Cut some pumpkin into small pieces ; put it in a 
saucepan, with some onion, a clove, piece of celery, 
pepper, salt, and water. When thoroughly cooked, 
pass it through a hair sieve. Put it back on the fire, 
with some rice which has previously soaked in warm 
water; add a little butter; simmer until the rice is 
cooked, and serve. 



22 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

32. — Turnip and Bice Soup. 

Simmer very gently together, until cooked, turnips 
and rice (more turnip than rice), with some butter 
and water. When cooked, pass through a hair sieve ; " 
put it back on the fire ; add some milk, pepper, and 
salt; simmer again; stir frequently with a wooden 
spoon; at the last moment, add a little butter and 
some cream. Serve with fried sippets, or, if the 
soup is not very thick, with some rice boiled separately 
as for curry. 

33. — Plain Turnip Sonp. 

Have ready some cooked turnips — in fact, a pur^e 
of turnips, very smooth and nicely dressed with 
pepper and salt. Place some stock in a saucepan; 
thicken it slightly with sago ; when the sago is cooked, 
add the turnips; let it simmer for a few minutes, 
and serve. The addition of some cream is an im- 
provement. 

34. — Bice and Pea Soup. 

Have ready a well-flavoured pur^e of peas and 
some cooked rice. Add them together to some stock ; 
simmer together for a few minutes ; add a little cream, 
and serve. 

35. — Bice Cream Soup. 

Cook some rice thoroughly in chicken stock ; pass 
through a hair sieve; put it back on the fire; add 



SOUPS. 23 

some more of the chicken stock to that which the 
rice has boiled in ; add a little cream, pepper, and salt ; 
simmer for a few minutes, and serve. This is a good 
way of using the water some chickens have boiled in. 
For a change, add some chopped,; scalded chervil. 

36. — Game Soup. 

Remains of any cold game ; boil them down with 
any game bones you may have, 1 onion, some herbs, 
a few vegetables, pepper, and salt. Then take the 
meat off the bones ; mince it in the machine ; pass it 
through a hair sieve ; strain the stock. Now put the 
game pur^e and the stock all back over the fire ; let 
it simmer (but not boil) until it thickens. 

37. — Sorrel and Lentil Soup. 

Put 1 ounce of butter in a saucepan ; when melted, 
put in a handful of chopped sorrel ; stew it in the 
butter about half an hour ; add to it the water some 
lentils have been boiled in, 2 J tablespoonfuls of rice, and 
any gravy you may have, or a little Liebig extract. 
Simmer for 2 or 3 hours, stir frequently, and season 
to taste with pepper and salt. 

38. — Potato and Chervil Soup. 

Boil or steam some potatoes; peel them; pass 
them through a colander. Put them on the fire, with 



24 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

1 ounce of butter and sufficient milk, pepper, and salt ; 
let it boil once ; then throw in a handful of chopped 
chervil. Pour in the tureen over some small sippets 
of. fried bread. 

39. — Parisian Soup. 

Cut some leeks into pieces about an inch long, fry 
them in butter until slightly brown, add your stock 
and some potatoes cut into thin slices; let it all 
simmer until done. Pour over slices of cut bread. 

40. — Potato Soup. 

Slice some raw potatoes ; put them into a saucepan 
with some nice stock (or water and some bones), 1 or 

2 onions, a bunch of parsley, pepper, and salt ; simmer 
for 3 or 4 hours, then strain through a sieve ; put it 
again over the fire and simmer about half an hour. 
It must be about as thick as pea soup. A little cream 
added to it is an improvement. If there are no bones 
or stock, make this soup with half milk and half water, 
and after the soup has been strained, and just before 
dishing it up, stir in 1 ounce of butter. 

41. — Monaco Soup. 

Fry some nicely shaped pieces of bread in butter a 
pale brown, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, place 
them in the bottom of a tureen. Now boil some milk 
or milk and cream ; add a few yolks of eggs ; pour it 
quite hot over the sippets. 



SOUPS. 25 

42. — Sorrel Cream Soup. 

Stew some chopped sorrel in butter ; thicken with 
flour ; add water, pepper, and salt ; boil a few minutes. 
Mix some yolk of eggs in cream, stir it gently into 
the soup, then pour into the tureen over some fried 
sippets. 

43. — Pumpkin Soup. 

Put some slices of pumpkin (if pumpkins are in 
season, or a can of preserved pumpkins if they are not) 
in a saucepan with a little onion, carrot, and turnip, 
pepper, salt, and stock or water; stew till quite cooked; 
pass through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire, add 
a little milk and butter or cream, simmer for a few 
minutes, and serve with fried sippets. 

44. — Onion Soup. 

Melt some butter or very good dripping; in this fry 
slightly some very finely chopped onions. When they 
are slightly browned, add a good pinch of flour ; let it 
fry with the onion till both are brown. Now add 
some stock (or milk and water), pepper, and salt ; let it 
simmer a little time, and serve with fried sippets. 

Another way is to leave out the flour and sippets, 
and use either vermicelli or rice, and let it stew until 
thoroughly cooked. 

A third way is to use small onions. Peel them and 



26 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

scald them for a few minutes, stew them in some 
butter, and add good stock, and serve as above with 
fried sippets. 

45. — Mulligatawny Soup. 

Chop the bone of a knuckle of veal small ; put it in 
a stewpan with a quart of good stock, 2 large onions, 
1 teacupful of rice, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder ; 
stew from 4 to 5 hours. 



46. — Carried Soup. 

Fry some chopped onion in butter, toss it up with 
some curry powder, add some stock or milk, pass it 
through a hair sieve, put it back on the fire with some 
previously boiled rice, boil up once, and serve. 



( 27 ) 



FISH. 

47.— Sole " & la Crfcme." 

Roll up the fillets of sole nicely ; stew them gently 
in nice white stock ; when done, take them out and 
drain them ; then make a sauce With 1 ounce of flour, 
1 ounce of butter, 1 gill of the stock the fish was 
stewed in, and 1 gill of cream. When cooked very 
smooth, serve over the soles. 

48.— Broiled Sole. 

Sprinkle both sides of a sole with pepper, salt, and a 
little lemon-juice ; rub it over with hot butter, sprinkle 
it over with fine bread-crumbs, and broil on both sides, 
either before the fire or in the oven. Pound an an- 
chovy with a little butter ; add a small glass of dry 
white wine, some lemon-juice; simmer for a few 
minutes over the fire, and serve on the sole. 

49.— Soles " & la Turban." 

Cut a piece of bread the same shape as a cork, but 
very much larger ; place it on a baking dish ; round 
the bread place some slices, of very thin fresh pork 



28 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

fat, then a cushion of savoury stuffing made of fish, 
herbs, bread-crumb, previously stewed together; on 
this place some well- shaped fillets of sole in the form 
of a turban ; on the fillets place some mushrooms or 
truffles; pour over some hot butter, then pour over 
some lemon-juice ; over this place a few slices of thin 
fresh pork fat; cover with a buttered paper, put in 
the oven, and bake. Have ready a thick tomato 
sauce, and when the soles are cooked, take away care- 
fully the slices of pork fat and the lump of bread, and 
into the space pour the tomato sauce. Serve in the 
same dish in which it is cooked. 

50. — Soles " a la Parisienne." 

Place some fillets of sole in a stewpan; sprinkle 
over them some chopped parsley and onion, and pepper 
and salt ; pour over some hot butter. Cook the soles 
on a tolerably hot fire, taking care that they do not 
burn or stick to the saucepan. Dish them up with an 
Italian sauce over them. 

51.— Soles " a la Colbert." 

When fried either whole or in fillets, place lumps 
of maitre d'h6tel butter tastefully arranged on the 
fish. 

52. — Baked Soles. 

Butter a baking dish; on this place some very 
thin slices of onion, then upon this a whole sole or 



FISH. 29 

filleted soles ; upon this pour a little white wine or 
cider ; sprinkle with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. 
Bake them till cooked, and serve them in the same 
dish. 



53. — Sole Hormande, or Sole " an Gratin." 

Place on a flat dish several lumps of butter ; 
sprinkle some very finely chopped parsley. Place on 
this a good-sized sole, then around some mushrooms 
and oysters ; add some more parsley, salt and pepper 
to taste ; then pour over a breakfast-cupful of slightly 
thickened gravy, in which you have previously mixed 
1 wineglassful of sherry or white wine, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of mushroom ketchup, 1 or 2 pounded anchovies. 
Bake half an hour to 40 minutes. Have some of the 
same gravy at hand to baste with and prevent it 
drying at the top. To make a sole " au gratin " you 
proceed as above, but sprinkle raspings of bread under 
and above, and finish by placing some lumps of butter 
on the top. You also use unthickened gravy. 

N.B.— Mussels are used in this dish, either as well 
as or in place of oysters. 

Another way. — Wipe the sole well ; brush it over 
with egg; sprinkle it with finely chopped parsley, 
mixed with fine bread-crumbs and seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Now melt some butter (4 ounces is 
sufficient for a 2 pound sole) ; pour it over the sole 
very gently, so as not to remove the bread-crumbs and 



30 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

parsley*. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. Have 
ready in saucepan about a quarter of a pint of good 
gravy, in which you have put in a little lemon- 
juice, 1 spoonful of ketchup, 1 wineglassful of sherry. 
Then remove the sole to another dish, and add the 
liquor from the fish to this sauce. Simmer it all 
together for a few minutes and pour it round the sole. 
It is a great improvement to this dish to add mush- 
rooms or oysters, or both, and mussels if liked. 

54.— Soles " i, la Orly." 

Sprinkle pepper and salt over the fillets, squeeze 
some lemon-juice over them, and leave them on one 
side. Put the bones and trimmings of the soles in 
a saucepan, with white wine, pepper, salt, and a few 
herbs ; stew for half an hour, then strain. Flour the 
soles well, fry them dry, and serve with the sauce they 
were stewed in and strained. 



55.— Whitings " & la Orly." 
Dress them exactly as the soles. 

56. — Fillets of Whiting and Mushrooms. 

Take some large whitings and divide them into 
fillets; place them at the bottom of a stewpan, 
sprinkle them with pepper and salt, pour over some 



I7Sff. m 31 

hot butter and lemon-juice. When half cooked, turn 
them over carefully and cook on the other side ; then 
take them out, put them to drain. Then into the 
sauce put some slices of truffles or mushrooms, and 
stew them ; add a little butter if necessary. Dish up 
the fish with the mushrooms and fried sippets. 
N.B. — Soles may be cooked in this way. 

57. — Baked Whitings. 

Butter a dish ; spread on this butter some finely 
chopped parsley, and a little onion, salt, and a little 
nutmeg; then place the whitings (boned whitings are 
preferable). Pour some hot butter over them, then 
equal quantities of white wine and stock. Put this 
dish in the oven, or on the top of your stove, with a 
cover over. When half cooked, turn the fish over 
carefully. When quite cooked, pour the sauce into a 
saucepan without disturbing the fish ; add some butter 
and flour ; simmer till thick, then add pepper and some 
lemon-juice. Pour the sauce back over the fish and 
serve in the dish the whitings are cooked in. 

58. — Buttered Whitings. 

Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the whitings, 
flour them thoroughly on both sides, place some 
butter on a gratin dish, lay the whitings upon it, and 
put them into a hot oven. Let them cook for some 



32 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

» 

minutes, then turn them carefully. Squeeze a little 
lemon-juice over them. The whitings must be a 
rich gold colour, and the butter brown, not black. 

Mackerels, herrings, soles, filleted haddocks, etc., 
can be cooked in this manner. 

■ 

58a. — Broiled Whitings. 

Sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and pour over 
a little oil. Leave them for an hour or two, then 
broil them before the fire ; turn them frequently ; serve 
over them any sauce liked. 

59.— Cod " & la Crfcme." 

Boil a nice piece of cod, either fresh cod or very 
slightly salted, in boiling water. Drain it and cut 
into fillets. Blend 3 or 4 ounces of butter with flour, 
pepper, and nutmeg (salt, if the cod used is not salted) ; 
let it thicken over the fire, stirring all the time. 
Now add half a pint of cream and some very finely 
chopped parsley. Stir carefully for five minutes ; then 
put in the fillets of cod and simmer gently for 10 
minutes ; then serve. 

60. — Bouille & Baisse of Cod. 

Put in a saucepan some chopped leeks or onions ; 
add some oil or butter; let it colour; then add a 
quart of water, a sprig or two of parsley, a bay leaf, 



FISH. 33 

pepper, salt, and pinch of saffron, and some whole 
peeled potatoes. When the potatoes are nearly* cooked, 
put in four slices of cod, and boil it till cooked. Dish 
the cod and potatoes up on one dish ; strain the gravy 
on to some nice slices of French roll into another 
dish, and serve the contents of both dishes together. 
Slightly salted cod may be cooked as above. 

a. 

61. — Bouille & Baisse. 

Take a variety of fishes, such as mullet, whiting, 
soles, haddock — a small lobster if shell-fish is liked ; 
cut them in pieces. Put in a wide and tolerably 
shallow saucepan a wine-glass of oil, 1 chopped onion, a 
bay leaf, a clove of garlic ; toss all this together. Then 
place your pieces of fish in ; add some salt to taste, 
a few slices of lemon, a few slices of tomato, a pinch 
of powdered saffron, a glass of white light wine ; add 
enough water to cover the fish ; boil up quickly on a 
hot fire. The fish ought to be cooked in a quarter of 
an hour, and the gravy sufficiently reduced. Take the 
fish out, strain the sauce, put it back on the fire ; add 
a spoonful of finely chopped parsley, and a very little 
flour (not enough to make the sauce thick, but enough 
to prevent it being quite thin); place some slices 
of French roll in a deep dish; pour the sauce over. 
Place the fish in another dish, and serve the two 
dishes together. 

N.B. — Of course the true bouille k baisse is made 

D 



34 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

from the fishes found in the Mediterranean, and those 
who want to eat it in perfection must go to Roubion's, 
at Marseilles; but a very good attempt at bouille k 
baisse can be eaten in England if the above directions 
are followed. 

62.— Middle Cut of Cod. 

Make a stuffing of bread-crumbs, parsley, onion 
chopped very fine, pepper, salt, and butter ; moisten 
with an egg or milk, cook it slightly, and put it in 
the open part of cod ; fix with skewers ; rub the fish 
with a beaten-up egg; strew over bread-crumbs, 
pepper, and salt. Bake it, and serve, with or without 
oyster sauce. 

63. — Indian Way of Cooking Fish. 

Fillets of sole, mackerel, haddock, or mullet. Rub 
the fillet with curry paste and salt ; fry it of a light 
brown ; grate some cocoa-nut ; pour a teacupful of boil- 
ing water over, mash it well together, and strain. 
Fry some sliced onion in the same butter the fish was 
fried in ; put a little flour ; add the cocoa-nut water, a 
little vinegar, salt and pepper. Stir till done and 
thick. Put in the fillets just to warm, not cook, and 
serve up. If cocoa-nut is not at hand, use prepared 
cocoa-nut. 1 tablespoonful of cocoa-nut and 2 ounces 
of butter is sufficient for 1 ordinary sized sole. 



FISH. 35 

64. — Baked Fish. 

Split the fish in half; take off the head and 
middle bone ; put it on a dish with a lump of butter 
2 tablespoonfdls of water; then cover the fish about a 
quarter of an inch thick with a cooked stuffing made 
of bread-crumbs, shallots, pepper and salt, one or two 
yolks of eggs ; sprinkle over some bread-crumbs ; add 
here and there some small lumps of butter. 

This recipe is good for sardines. 

A teaspoonful of rum added to the stuffing is by 
some considered an improvement. 

65. — Skate " au Beurre Hoir." 

When the skate is boiled, drain it well and serve 
with brown butter. To boil the skate, lay it in a 
fish-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it, a 
bay leaf, sprig of thyme, sliced onion, carrot, sprig of 
parsley, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Let it boil 
up for a couple of minutes, and then simmer quietly 
until done. 

66.— Skate " & l'ltalienne." 

When the skate is prepared, boil it in some milk, 
with a little garlic, a lump of butter, a pinch of flour, 
2 cloves, thyme, bay leaf, pepper, and salt. The skate 
will be cooked in a very short time. Take it out and 



36 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

let it drain. Cook the sauce some little time longer, 
and strain it. Have a few button onions boiled and 
drained. Take a baking-dish; sprinkle some grated 
cheese on the bottom of it, place the skate upon it, 
place the onions round, and some fried sippets ; pour the 
sauce over ; sprinkle with a little more cheese. Bake 
about 10 to 20 minutes, and serve. 

67.— To use Cold Fish. 

1 ounce of butter, 1 chopped shallot or a little 
onion, chopped parsley, 1 teacupful of stock, a quarter 
of a pint of milk or cream, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 
Put the butter, parsley, and shallot in the stewpan 
with the stock ; boil 5 minutes ; pour in the milk or 
cream ; add the lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. When 
nicely stewed, put in the fish. Only leave it in suffi- 
cient time to warm it. Dish up and garnish with 
fried sippets. 

68.— Fish " au Gratin " (Remains of Cold Fish). 

Remains of any cold fish. Break it in small pieces, 
take away all the bones ; put it in a flat baking-dish, 
with some white sauce or remains of any fish sauce 
you have ; sprinkle over with bread-crumbs and some 
small bits of butter ; bake about 20 minutes. Serve in 
the same dish in which it was cooked. 



FISH. 37 

69. — Flemish Mackerel. 

When the mackerel are prepared, bone them and 
fill the space with butter, chopped shallot, parsley, 
pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; wrap each mackerel up 
in a well-buttered paper ; put them to v cook in the 
oven. When cooked, take the papers off and dish up 
hot. A good-sized mackerel may take about 25 
minutes, but time will depend on the size of the fish 

« 

and the heat of the oven, which ought to be mode- 
rately hot. 

70. — Mackerel " an Beurre Voir." 

Open ; bone ; spread a little butter, pepper, and salt 
over them, and broil them before the fire or cook in 
the oven. Melt some butter in a saucepan ; when it is 
a rich brown, add some lemon-juice and serve it over 
the fish. Must be sent to table quite hot. 

70a. — Mackerel " & l'Allemande." 

Prepared as above, but served with a mustard sauce 
over. 

70b. — Herrings "an Beurre Hoir." 
Prepared and served exactly like the mackerel 

71.— Mackerel " & la Maitre <T Hotel." 

Open and bone the mackerel ; pour a little oil over 
it, and sprinkle some chopped parsley; leave it for half 



38 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

an hour, then broil it before the fire or cook it in the 
oven. When cooked, dish it up at once with a few 
lumps of cold maitre dlidtel butter. 

71a.— Herrings " & la Maitre d'Hotel." 
Dress the herrings exactly as the mackerel. 

72.— Fried Smelts. 

Dip them in milk for a few minutes, drain them, 
flour them well on both sides, and fry a pale gold 
colour. Serve with any sauce liked. 

73. — Small Fish. 

Take a sheet of writing paper, butter or grease it 
well, lay it on a tin ; place two or three small fish (or 
pieces of fish), bread-crumbs, parsley, onion, anchovy 
(if liked, a little grated lemon), small piece of butter ; 
fold the paper up neatly, and bake from 15 to 30 
minutes, depending on the size of the fish. * Serve up 
in the paper. 

74.— Trout " au Bleu." 

Boil the trout in equal quantities of stock and red 
wine ; when cooked, put it in a deep dish, and pour 
over it the liquor it was cooked in. Next day take it 
out and dish it up, decorate it with parsley, and serve 
with cruet of oil and vinegar. 



FISH. 39 

75. — Trout " & la Hussar de." 

Beat some butter and chopped herbs together ; place 
it inside the prepared trout very carefully, so as not to 
break them ; rub the trout with a little oil or butter, 
pepper, and salt ; broil them before the fire (or cook in 
the oven). Serve with a poivrade sauce. 

. 76.— Fillets of Salmon. 

Prepare some small fillets of salmon ; take the skin 
off; flatten each fillet with the blade of a knife dipped 
in cold water. Melt some butter in a stewpan ; place 
the fillets side by side carefully in it, sprinkle with 
pepper and salfy toss them up till cooked. In another 
saucepan have some rich white stock ; when it is hot, 
add to it the butter the salmon was cooked in, then 
some finely chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a little nut- 
meg and lemon-juice ; stew for a few minutes, then 
thicken with one or two yolks of eggs. Dish up the 
fillets and place the sauce over. 

77.— Salmon " au Bleu." 

Split the salmon and place inside some butter mixed 
with flour ; sprinkle over it some pepper, salt, chopped 
onion, and parsley ; place it in some stock, to which add 
some claret ; let it boil quickly for a few minutes, and 
then simmer carefully until done. Dish it up on a 



40 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

d'oyley with fried parsley, and serve with it any sauce 
liked. Is good cold. 

78. — Grilled Salmon. 

Slices of salmon about 1 inch thick. Rub them over 
with salad oil, season with pepper and salt, place on a 
gridiron over a clear fire ; turn the salmon every five 
minutes, baste occasionally with a little oil or butter. 
Serve with Italian, mayonnaise, or other sauce. 

N.B. — The slices of salmon can be also done on a 
flat baking-dish in the oven, care being taken to turn 
them frequently ; of course, in this case, butter or oil 
must be placed in the baking-dish first. 

79.— Fillets of Eel " & la Ravigote." 

Cut the eels into fillets about 3 inches long. Melt 
some butter in a saucepan ; add some onion, carrot, 
bay leaf, parsley, pepper and salt, water or stock, and 
a little vinegar. Boil the eels in this ; then take them 
out, drain them, and, when they are cold, egg and bread- 
crumb them; fry them, and serve with a ravigote 
sauce round them. 

80.—" Soften " Eel. 

Place the eel in a stewpan, lay over it fillets of 
anchovy and slices of gherkin, cover with some stock, 
and simmer it gently until cooked ; then lift it on to a 



FISH. 41 

dish carefully, and cover it with a tomato sauce made 
rather hot with cayenne. 

81.— Eel " & la Minute." 

Cut the eel in pieces about 2 or 3 inches long, boil 
it from 10 to 15 minutes (according to its thick- 
ness) in salt and water ; take it out, drain it, and serve 
it with a hot maitre d'hotel butter over it and fried 
potatoes around. 

82.— Baked Gurnet. 

Stuff the fish with bread-crumbs, an egg, a little 
chopped parsley, shallot or onion ; place it in a baking- 
dish ; pour round a glass of broth or stock ; place over 
a little dripping, oil, or butter, a few bread-crumbs, and 
parsley. Bake about an hour. 

83.— Turbot " au Gratin." 

Take some previously cooked turbot cut in fillets, 
warm it up in some white sauce, then place it all .on 
a baking-dish ; sprinkle it over with bread-crumbs and 
grated Parmesan, pour over some hot butter, and bake 
in the oven until it is a pale brown colour. 

84.— Baked Turbot. 

Pour a little hot butter over your turbot; place 
over some chopped parsley and other herbs, pepper, 



42 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

salt, and mace ; leave it thus for half an hour. Lift it 
on to a baking-dish as well as the above ingredients ; 
egg and bread-crumb it well on both sides, bake in the 
oven, and serve with any sauce liked. 

85.— Red Mullet. 

Put 2 ounces of butter in a dish, with 1 or 2 
pounded anchovies ; let it melt ; add pepper ; lay the 
fish in it, place a few small bits of butter on the top, 
put it in the oven, and bake half an hour. Serve in 
the dish in which it was cooked. 

86. — Sardines. 

Take the middle bone out; make a stuffing with 
bread soaked in milk, 1 yolk of egg, salt and pepper, 
chopped sorrel or parsley ; stew it together to a paste. 
Cover one sardine thickly, place another on the top ; 
tie them and fiy them or grill them. Untie them 
before dishing up. 



( 43 ) 



SAUCES. 

87. — French Melted Butter. 

1 heaped-up tablespoonful of flour, half a pint of 
water, 1£ ounces of butter, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice. 
Blend the flour in a little of the cold water ; boil up 
the rest of the water, and when boiling stir in the 
flour ; then add the butter. Stir all the time ; then 
add the lemon-juice. 

N.B. — The cook must not guess at her quantities 
or she will spoil her sauce. 

N.B. — Two tablespoonfuls of cream added to the 
above sauce at the last moment will make the sauce 
a very superior one. 

88. — Melted Butter Sauce " au Beurre." 

Made like melted butter, using broth or stock 
instead of water. Good for vegetables or fish. 

89. — Walnut Sauce. 

Make a melted butter sauce; at the last put in 
some chopped or pounded pickled walnuts, and simmer 
a few minutes together before serving. 

N.B. — This sauce is also excellent with a boiled 
leg of mutton. 



44 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

90. — Curry Sauce. 

2 ounces chopped onion, 2 ounces butter, 1 table- 
spoonful curry powder, 2 ounces of sour milk. Stew 
at least 20 minutes. 

91. — Cream Sauce. 

1 J ounce of butter, 1 heaped-up teaspoonful of flour, 
a pinch of parsley, ditto of shallot, a very little grated 
nutmeg, half a pint of cream (or cream and milk). 
Blend the flour in a little milk ; boil it up with the 
rest of the ingredients for a quarter of an hour. Stir 
all the time, and be careful to keep it smooth. 

92. — Swiss Sauce (for Fish or Vegetables). 

Half a dessert-spoonful of flour, juice of 1 lemon, 
pepper and salt, 3 gills of cream. Blend the flour in 
the smallest quantity of butter necessary, boil up the 
cream, stir in the flour and pepper and salt, boil 
10 minutes, stir in the lemon-juice, and serve. 

93. — Tomato Sauce. 

Place in a saucepan a slice of ham, some trimmings 
of meat, slices of onion and carrot, a small piece of 
celery, a couple of cloves ; place on the top of these some 
tomatoes. Stew on a slow fire, stirring frequently with 



SAUCES. 45 

a wooden spoon. When thoroughly cooked, add a 
good pinch of flour and some stock. Stew again for 
about 20 minutes ; pass through a sieve. Must be as 
thick as cream. 

Another way. — Stew the tomatoes gently for an 
hour or more with pepper, salt, parsley, onion, thyme, 
and a bay leaf; pass through a hair sieve. Blend some 
flour with butter, add it gradually to the sauce, then 
add some lemon-juice to taste, and serve hot 

94. — Spanish Sauce. 

2 slices of ham, 2 slices of veal, 2 carrots, and 2 
onions sliced. Let this stew on the fire; then add 
equal quantities of stock or white wine, 1 clove of 
garlic, a bunch of parsley, 1 bay leaf, a couple of 
cloves. Simmer altogether for 3 or 4 hours on a slow 
fire; thicken with flour and butter; skim and pass 
through a sieve. 

95. — Eavigote Sauce (Hot). 

Chop some herbs, such as chervil, tarragon, parsley, 
and chives, very fine ; place in a saucepan with some 
good stock, a little white wine, pepper, and salt ; stew 
gently; add a little flour blended in butter, and a 
small quantity of lemon-juice; stir till thick, and 
serve. 



46 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

96.— Eavigote. Sauce (Cold). 

Chop some herbs of all sorts, capers, anchovies, all 
very small; add the yolk of an egg, then oil very 
gently, as you would for a mayonnaise ; then vinegar 
to taste, also poured in gently so as not to turn the 
sauce ; at the last stir in enough mustard for the sauce 
to be fairly hot. 

97. — Green Sauce. 

2 slices of ham, 2 slices of veal Put them in a 
saucepan and let them stew gently in their own gravy ; 
then add a little stock and white wine, and allow all 
to simmer for some minutes. Strain. Now take the 
juice of some herbs, such as tarragon, chervil, parsley, 
spinach, etc., by pounding them in a mortar. Add this 
juice to the above sauce; flavour with pepper and 
salt, thicken with 4 yolks of eggs, add the juice of 
1 lemon. 

98.— Bechamel Sauce. 

Place in a saucepan 1 ounce of butter, chopped 
parsley, tarragon, chervil, shallot, enough flour to 
thicken ; stew for a few minutes ; add 1 pint of cream 
(or cream and milk), pepper, salt, and nutmeg; stir it 
over the fire until thick ; pass through a hair sieve. 

98a. Sauce "a la BSchamel" (Bechamel Sauce). 

Proceed exactly as above, but use cream and gravy 
in equal quantities, instead of cream or cream and milk. 



SAUCES. 47 

99. — Anchovy Sauce. 

Pound some anchovies very smooth ; place them on 
the fire in some good gravy or melted butter sauce; 
flavour with pepper, and, if liked, other spices. 

100.— Sauce " Poivrade." 

1 teacupful of ordinary vinegar, 2 ounces of butter, 
parsley, bay leaf, a little onion, thyme, pepper, and 
salt. Place all this on the fire, and stew gently for an 
hour ; now thicken the sauce with some flour, add 1 
or 2 teacupfuls of good stock ; stew again for some 
time, strain, and serve. 

101.—" Sauce Eaifort " (Horse-Radish Sauce). 

Grate some horse-radish very fine; boil some cream, 
salt it to taste, and pour it over the horse-radish. 

102. — Italian Sauce. 

Put 2 ounces of butter in a saucepan, a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, 1 of shallot, 1 of mushrooms, half a 
pint of thin white wine. Stew for an hour gently. 
Now thicken ; add a few tablespoonfuls of very good 
stock, and stew again. Skim very carefully ; strain ; 
put it to steam in a jar in a saucepan of hot water. 



48 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

103. — Mustard Sauce. 

Half a teaspoonful of English mustard, 2£ tea- 
spoonfuls of French mustard, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 
one-third of a teaspoonful of sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, 
salt, 1 teaspoonful of strong vinegar. Now melt 2 
ounces of butter in a stewpan ; add the other ingre- 
dients; simmer gently, stirring all the time with a 
wooden spoon. This sauce must be very smooth and 
of the consistency of cream. If it should be too thick, 
add a teaspoonful of water or vinegar. 

104. — Yellow Sauce for Fricassees. 

Put in a saucepan a lump (2 ounces) of butter ; 
when it is melted, add 1 tablespoonful of flour, blended 
with a little milk. Turn all the time so as to mix 
it in well, but do not let it get brown. Then add, 
very gradually and still turning, half a pint of hot 
milk and half a pint of white stock, salt, pepper, 
parsley, a little onion, and a couple of carrots. Put in 
your white meats and let them stew very gently until 
done. Keep the lid of the saucepan tightly on. 
When cooked, strain through a hair sieve ; add 1 or 2 
yolks of eggs ; flavour with lemon-juice. 



105.— Sauce " Robert. 



»» 



Chop some onion very fine ; toss it over the fire in 
butter, then add some flour. Cook it for a few minutes ; 



SAUCES. 49 

add a little stock and vinegar to taste; cook for 20 
minutes or more. Strain it; put it back on the fire, 
and add a little mustard to it, and salt to flavour. 

106.— Sauce " B&noulade " 

Is made with olive oil, vinegar, mustard, chopped 
onion, parsley, pepper and salt, all thoroughly mixed 
together. 

107. — Gherkin Sauce. 

Fry some finely chopped herbs in 1 ounce of 
butter ; add stock ; thicken with flour, stew till thick ; 
add some finely chopped gherkins, pepper, and salt; 
stew again for a few minutes, and serve. 

108. — Sauce " MelangeV' 

Chop an equal quantity of onion and mushrooms, 
also some parsley. Fry this in 1 ounce of butter ; add 
some flour to thicken, then pepper, salt, and vinegar 
to taste. Stew for about a quarter of an hour or more. 

109. — Sauce " aux Militaires." 

Place in a saucepan 1 slice of ham, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of strong stock, 1 glass of white wine, half a head of 
celery cut in small pieces, some tarragon (garlic ?), 
chervil, thyme, bay leaf, parsley, shallot, and half a 
lemon in slices. Place the saucepan by i\\& sad^a cJLH5&r* 



60 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

fire, and stew gently till reduced to half the original 
quantity. Strain, and serve over roasts. 

Simpler Method. — 1 glass of red wine, 1 glass of 
stock, 1 pounded anchovy, some chopped shallot. 
Stew gently for some time ; strain it ; add some gravy 
from under the roast, the juice of half a lemon, and 
serve. 

110. — Sauce " Chateaubriand." 

Dissolve some glaze (glace de viande) in light white 
wine; add a thickening of flour and butter; flavour 
with pepper and salt ; stew for some time. Beat up a 
little butter, chopped parsley, chopped chervil, nutmeg, 
and lemon-juice ; stir it into the sauce, and serve. 

111. — Gothic Sauce. 

Pound up 7 yolks of hard-boiled eggs ; stir gradually 
in, while you are pounding, 5 or 6 tablespoonfuls of oil. 
Add some cayenne pepper or a couple of pounded 
chilies, salt, and a pinch of saffron ; then stir in 3 table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Pass through a hair sieve and 
serve. 

112. — Soubise Sauce or Purfo. 

Put some onions to soak for 10 minutes in boiling 
water. Peel them; cut them in halves or quarters. 
Put them into a small saucepan, with a lump of fresh 
butter ; simmer very slowly together until the onions 
are quite cooked ; add salt to taste ; thicken with flour 



SAUCES. 51 

or flour and fine bread-crumbs, and add cream or 
milk. Pass through a sieve, and serve with anything 
liked. Must be quite thick and smooth (some people 
like a pinch of sugar added). 

113. — Celery Sauce. 

Boil the celery in a little salt and water ; pass it 
through a sieve. Put some butter in a saucepan, then 
the celery, a little flour and fine bread-agimbs, and 
cream or gravy ; simmer together, and serve. 

114. — Sauce " au Vin de Madere " (Madeira Sauce). 

Boil a small piece of glaze (glace de viande) in 
some Madeira wine, with pepper ; make a thickening 
of flour and butter ; stir it into the sauce, and simmer 
10 minutes. Skim, strain, and serve. 

115. — Fine Herb Sauce. 

Boil in some salted water some spinach, sorrel, 
chervil, a leek, and a little mint, and then chop them 
up very fine. Now place in a saucepan a small piece 
of fat bacon ; when it is melted, add a thin slice of 
ham, an onion, a shallot ; stir it over the fire, then add 
2 or 3 pounded anchovies, a little chopped parsley, 
an ounce or two of butter, and the cooked herbs. Now 
add some bread-crumbs soaked in milk, Y ot ^* \afi&&- 



52 WH0LE80ME COOKERY. 

spoonfuls of oil, a little stock or water. Stew from 
10 to 20 minutes, strain, and serve. 



116. — Sauce "Bfernaise." 

Peel 6 or 7 shallots ; put them in a saucepan with 
a small quantity of vinegar; simmer very gently, 
till you have extracted all the essences; strain it. 
Now have 6 yolks of eggs and some rich clear gravy — 
meat essence, in fact. Place the yolks in a iar, and 
the jar ixfa saucepan of water; L the eggs gently 
with a wooden spoon; when they begin ^thicken, 
add the gravy ; then very gently add the juice of 2 
lemons, then the above essence of shallot, pepper, and 
salt. Stir all very carefully, simmer a few minutes 
longer, and serve. 

117. — Nimes Sauce. 

Cut some onions in very thin slices, and stew them 
very slowly in butter; blend a pinch of flour in a 
little stock or gravy; add pepper and salt; cook it 
with the onion and butter ; add 3 or 4 yolks of eggs 
carefully, and serve with steaks, chops, etc. Must be 
as thick as custard. 

118. — Garlic Sauce. 

Put the crumb of a French roil to soak for a few 
minutes in a little milk ; then press all the milk out. 



SAUCES. 53 

Put the crumb in a mortar with 3 cloves of garlic, 1 or 
2 yolks of eggs, 6 Jordan almonds, peeled. Pound all 
quite smooth in a mortar, and stir in some oil The 
oil must be poured drop by drop to prevent the sauce 
turning. Eat with boiled fish or plain boiled vegetables. 
If liked, add a little lemon-juice to the sauce. 

119. — German Pudding Sauce. 

Dissolve 1 J ounce of sugar in 2 glasses of white 
wine; when quite hot, stir in the well-beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs ; whisk it up until quite frothy, and pour 
hot over the pudding. Whilst you whisk, keep the 
saucepan well to the side of the fire, as if this sauce 
boils it will curdle. 



119a. — Vegetable and Meat Sauce (Sauce faute de Beurre). 

Put into a jar 1 or 2 ounces of fresh butter and 
1 or 2 tablespoonsfuls of salad oil. Take 2 or 3 yolks 
of eggs, and beat them up with pepper, salt, and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon-juice. Put the jar 
in a stewpan of boiling water, and steam it. When 
the oil and butter are well mixed together, pour in 
the yolks very gently and stirring all the time, as 
you would a custard, and continue until it thickens 
properly. 

For a change, this sauce is very good with a little 
mustard added to it. 



54 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



120. — Sweet Swiss Sauce. 



1 gill of cream, 1 wine-glass of sherry, half a dessert- 
spoonful of flour (blended with the sherry). Boil the 
cream ; then stir in the flour and sherry, and add 1 
dessert-spoonful of castor sugar, three-quarters of a 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg ; boil together a quarter 
of an hour. 

121. — Brown Butter. 

Put some butter in a small fryingpan, and let it 
melt until it is a rich brown colour. Be careful that 
it does not burn. Pour it over the fish or vegetable it 
is intended for ; then pour a few drops of vinegar or 
lemon-juice into the pan, and pour that also over your 
dish of fish or vegetable. 

122. — Anchovy Butter. 

Beat up some anchovy paste and butter together 
until the butter is a pink colour ; keep to use on steaks 
or fried fish. A simple and quick anchovy toast 
may be made by spreading some on hot buttered 
toast. 

123. — Horse-radish Butter. 

Grated-horse radish ; add salt to taste ; pound up 
with butter. Good on broiled steaks. 



8AUGE8. 55 



*4 J»TT* 



124.— Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 

Knead some very finely chopped parsley in with 
some fresh butter ; add pepper, salt, and a little lemon- 
juice. If required hot, melt it over the fire, but do 
not let it boil. 

125. — Ravigote Butter. 

Scald some parsley, tarragon, chervil, chives, and 
shallot; press out all the water, and chop them up 
very fine. Now pound them up with two anchovies 
and some butter. Pass through a sieve. 

126. — Tarragon Butter. 

Chop some tarragon very fine ; beat it up with a 
lump of butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Serve 
over mackerel, soles, etc. 

127. — Devil Mixture. 

Mix well on a plate a teaspoonful of French or 
English mustard, half a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, 
2 of salad oil. Cover the meats well before grilling. 

128. — Brandy Butter (for Sweets). 

Beat 1 teacupful of castor sugar with half a tea- 
cupful of fresh butter. When beaten to a cream, add 



56 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

* 

a tablespoonful of brandy and a little essence of 
nutmeg. Put it on ice until required. 

N.B. — Rum can be used instead of brandy. 

Some people whisk two whites of eggs to the above. 
I do not recommend it. 



( 57 ) 



VEGETABLES, etc. 

129. — Plain Fried Potatoes. 

Peel them, wash them, slice them, and drain them ; 
when perfectly dry, put them in boiling fat and fry 
them a pale gold colour. Sprinkle with salt, and 
serve at once. 

130. — Potatoes " i, la Lyonnaise." 

Make a thick soubise sauce. Boil the potatoes ; 
peel them, and cut them in slices. Pour the soubise 
sauce over them and serve. 



131. — Puree of Potatoes. 

Boil and peel the potatoes ; pass them through a 
wire sieve ; put them into a saucepan, with a lump 
of butter, pepper, salt to taste. Stir in enough milk 
to make the pur^e smooth. Boil it up once, being 
careful to stir from the bottom, and serve. 



58 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

132.— Potatoes " an Grating 

Boil the potatoes, then peel them and pound them 
smooth. Now place a layer of the potatoes on a baking- 
dish, about a quarter of an inch thick ; then sprinkle 
over a little grated Parmesan cheese, a few very small 
lumps of butter, then more potato, cheese, and butter, 
until you have used up all the potato. Sprinkle a 
little more grated Parmesan cheese on the top, and a 
few lumps of butter. Bake in the oven or before the 
fire. 

133.— Potatoes " a la Maitre d'HoteL" 

Boil the potatoes in water, then peel them. Put 
some butter in a saucepan, with chopped parsley, 
pepper, and salt. Toss in the potatoes ; add a squeeze 
of lemon-juice, and serve at once. 1 pound of pota- 
toes will require three-quarters of an ounce of butter. 

9 

133a. — Tossed Potatoes. 

Three-quarters of a pound of small new potatoes, 
all the same size. Scrape them, wash them, and 
drain them perfectly dry. Put 1 ounce of dripping 
or butter in a saucepan ; place it on a brisk fire ; when 
it is quite hot, put in the potatoes. Keep the lid on, 
and cook them until they are a deep gold colour. 
Toss the saucepan every few minutes while they are 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 59 

cooking. When cooked, drain off the fat that may 
be left, sprinkle some salt over them, and serve them 
quite hot. 

133b. — Faverges Potatoes. 

Slice some potatoes; put a good-sized lump of 
butter in a saucepan ; put in the potatoes and cover 
the saucepan. Simmer them gently until they are 
cooked. Take out, sprinkle over with salt, and serve. 
The potatoes will be a pale yellow colour, and will not 
be dry. The butter can be used many times again. 

134. — Potato Salad. 

Cook the potatoes, peel and slice them, and dress 
them while they are hot with a little oil, vinegar, 
pepper and salt, chopped parsley, tarragon, chervil, a 
few sliced gherkins, and anchovies. Serve when cold. 
If liked, dress them with cream and lemon-juice in 
place of oil and vinegar. 

135.— Souffle Potatoes. 

Peel the potatoes; cut them downwards in slices 
half an inch thick ; dry them in a cloth. Have a sauce- 
pan of fat almost boiling; put in the potatoes and 
let them cook about 10 minutes; take them out, 
drain them ; let them get nearly cold. Boil the fat 
up again, and when quite boiling, put in ihe> ^fttata*& 



60 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

and cook them about 4 minutes. The potatoes ought 
to come out perfectly dry, a pale gold colour, and 
very much swollen — in fact, about twice the size 
they were when they went in. Sprinkle them with 
salt ; serve at once. 

136.— Potatoes " & la Creme." 

Boil some potatoes, peel them, and slice them. 
Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, with salt, pepper, 
flour to thicken, a little nutmeg, chopped parsley, and 
small piece of shallot; stir in some cream, and con- 
tinue stirring till the sauce boils; then put in the 
sliced potatoes. Simmer a couple of minutes, and 
serve. 

137. — Parisian Potatoes. 

Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, with a finely 
chopped onion ; when a pale brown colour, add a glass 
of water and some peeled raw potatoes, pepper, salt, 
and a little chopped thyme and parsley. Simmer 
slowly till cooked. 

* 

138. — Italian Potatoes. 

Boil 1 pound of potatoes, then peel them and pound 
them; add 3 ounces of butter, a little bread-crumb 
soaked in milk ; add sufficient milk to make the mix- 
ture smooth but not liquid, then 3 yolks of eggs well 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 61 

beaten, and 2 whites of eggs beaten to a froth. 

Place this high up on a baking-dish, smooth it with 
a knife, pour over some hot butter, and bake it in 
the oven. Must be served immediately it is cooked. 

139. — Potatoes and White Sauce. 

Boil the potatoes, and peel them and cut them 
in slices ; at once arrange .them on the dish and pour 
over a white sauce. 

140.— Cauliflower " au Gratia." 

Boil a cauliflower about two-thirds ; divide it into 
branches. Make a melted butter sauce, into which 
you mix some grated Gruyfere and Parmesan cheese. 
Place a layer of cauliflower on a baking-dish, then 
cover with sauce ; then another layer of cauliflower 
and another layer of the sauce ; sprinkle a little 
cheese over the whole, then a few bread-crumbs ; pour 
a little hot butter over the top, and bake. 

N.B. — Unless the cauliflower is divided into layers 
it will not be good, as the sauce must cover every 
portion. It is also a great mistake to simply sprinkle 
cheese over the top ; some must be mixed in the sauce 
too. 

For those who do not like cheese, a cauliflower 
can be prepared in this manner with a plain melted 
butter, leaving out the cheese. 



62 WE0LE80ME COOKERY. 



141. — Cauliflower Fritters. 

Boil some cauliflowers about two-thirds; divide 
them into pieces of equal size ; dip each piece in a 
thick yellow or white sauce; put them on one side 
to get cold. Then take each piece with a spoon, dip 
carefully into frying batter, so that it is entirely 
covered. Fry in boiling fat, and serve with fried 
parsley. 

N.B. — The cauliflower can, for a change, be dipped 
in a little oil and vinegar, pepper and salt, instead 
of the sauce, and allowed to become cold, before frying 
as above. 

142. — Scrambled Cauliflowers. 

When the cauliflowers are boiled and drained, 
divide them into branches, and toss them up for a 
few minutes in a saucepan with butter, pepper, salt, 
and a little nutmeg. Serve with fried sippets. 

143. — Tossed Cauliflowers. 

Divide the cauliflowers into branches ; scald them 
for 2 or 3 minutes, then drain them and boil them 
in stock, with a little nutmeg. When cooked, drain 
them. Melt a little butter in a saucepan, add some 
chopped parsley, toss the cauliflowers in for a few 
minutes, and serve them at once. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 63 



144.— Cabbage " & la Creme." 

Halve a white cabbage ; cook it in boiling water 
with salt until it is two-thirds cooked; take it out 
and drain it, then cut it into small pieces. Put a 
lump of butter in a saucepan with salt and pepper ; 
stir in some flour ; then add a little cream, and finish 
cooking the cabbage in this, and serve all together. 



145. — Cabbage "an Gratia." 

White-heart cabbage prepared as the cauliflower 
au gratin is good, but the cabbage must be very 
thoroughly boiled. 



146. — Puree of Spinach. 

After the spinach is cooked, pass it through a sieve ; 
put it back in the saucepan ; season with pepper, salt, 
a little nutmeg, butter, and gravy. Stew for a few 
minutes, and serve with fried sippets. 



146a. — Fried Brussels Sprouts. 

When boiled and drained, fry them in butter for 
a few minutes, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and chopped 
parsley. 



64 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

146b. — Dressed Brussels Sprouts. 

When they are cooked, drain them thoroughly, put 
them in a stewpan with some white sauce or brown 
gravy, toss them up a few minutes, and serve. 

147. — Dressed Endives. 

Pick to pieces 3 endives; wash them well in 3 
different waters ; drain them, throw them into boiling 
water with a handful of salt, and boil them on a 
quick fire till they are very tender. Put them to 
drain in a colander, and squeeze out all the moisture. 
Chop them very fine ; place them in a saucepan with 
1 ounce of butter, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and 
salt; stir them over the fire for about 20 minutes; 
add a little cream, and dish them up with fried sippets. 

148. — PurSe of Sorrel. 

Prepare the sorrel in the same manner as spinach ; 
boil it ; change the water three times during the boil- 
ing ; drain it and chop it, and pass through a sieve. 
Put it back on the fire, with a little flour, milk, pepper, 
and salt; simmer for twenty minutes; add a little 
butter or cream, and serve with fried sippets, or eggs 
poached, fried, or hard boiled. 

149. — Vegetable Macedoine. 

Take any vegetable that may be in season at the 
time, such as carrots, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 65 

small onions, asparagus tops, branches of cauliflower, 
cucumbers, peas, French beans, etc. Boil them sepa- 
rately, drain them, toss them up in a yellow sauce, and 
serve. 

150.— Onions " & la Cr&ne." 

Have small and young onions ; cook them in boil- 
ing water with salt ; drain them. Put a lump of butter 
in a saucepan ; stir in a little flour, pepper, and salt ; 
then put in the onions. Add a little cream ; cook 
together for a few minutes, and stir all the time. 
Serve. 

151. — Onions " an Jus." 

Cook some young onions for a quarter of an hour 
in boiling water and salt; drain them. Blend some 
flour and butter over the fire until they are pale 
brown ; add a little red wine and gravy. Now put in 
the onions, with a bunch of thyme, parsley, a couple of 
cloves, and a bay leaf. Simmer all together until the 
onions are quite cooked ; strain the sauce. Dish up 
the onions with the sauce, and add some fried sippets, 
a few capers, and a couple of chopped anchovies. 

152. — Hashed Leeks. 

Take off the outside green part of the leeks ; wash 
the leeks well in hot water, cut them in two and boil 
them, then drain them and press o\it &W \)&fe ^rsdust \ 



66 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

chop them up small. Put a lump of butter in the 
saucepan, then the leeks, a pinch of flour, pepper, salt, 
and a little cream. Simmer together for a few minutes ; 
then stir in a couple of yolks of eggs, and dish up with 
fried sippets. The leeks ought to be of about the con- 
sistency of dressed spinach. 

153. — Leeks whole. 

After they have been washed and boiled, simmer 
them whole in any brown or white sauce liked. 

154. — Italian Artichokes. 

Take the underparts of some French artichokes; 
put them in a saucepan with some butter, white 
wine, a little stock, and lemon-juice. When cooked, 
drain them, and serve up with Italian sauce over. 

N.B. — The preserved artichokes (fonds d'artichauds) 
are very good for this purpose ; they will require very 
little cooking. 

154a. — Staffed Artichokes. 

Make a savoury stuffing with some chopped herbs, 
bread-crumbs, mushroom, pounded anchovy, a yolk or 
two of hard-boiled egg. Make this into a paste by 
cooking it in a little cream or gravy ; fill the under- 
parts of some artichokes, and put them to simmer in a 
yellow or bechamel sauce. Serve up with the sauce 
and some fried sippets. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 67 

155.— Artichokes " & la Creme." 

Boil the underparts of French artichokes and serve 
them in a melted butter sauce, into which you have 
put some chopped parsley, some cream, or the yolk of 
an egg. 

156. — Artichoke Fritters. 

Take the underparts of French artichokes and boil 
them ; dip them into a thick white sauce ; let them get 
cold ; then dip each piece in frying batter, and fry in 
boiling fat. Serve with fried parsley. 

157. — Artichoke and Tomato Salad. 

Underpart of French artichokes boiled ; slices of 
raw tomato. Mix some tarragon, chervil, oil, pepper, 
salt, and vinegar together; dip the artichokes and 
tomatoes in separately, and lay them alternately in a 
salad bowl. Pour the dressing over. 

158. — Pur6e of Artichokes. 

Boil the underparts of French artichokes in water, 
into which you have blended some flour. When 
cooked, mash them well ; pass through a hair sieve ; 
put them back in a saucepan with pepper, salt, butter, 
and cream ; toss up a few minutes and serve. 



68 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

159. — Glazed Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Wash, peel, and cut into uniform pieces some Jeru- 
salem artichokes. Put them into a stewpan ; pour a 
little hot butter over them ; season with pepper, salt, 
a little nutmeg, and lemon-juice ; moisten them with 
a little stock or water. Put the lid on, and let them 
simmer on a slow fire for half an hour, during which 
time they ought to become a deep yellow. Boil them 
in their glaze; dish them, up with an Italian sauce 
over them. 

160. — Bice and Pumpkin. 

Cut a pumpkin into pieces ; put it into an earthen 
jar, with some salt, an onion, a couple of cloves, small 
piece of celery, and a good lump of butter; add 
some water ; put on the lid. Cook slowly, either 
in the oven or by the side of the fire. When cooked, 
pass it through a sieve. Now boil some rice ; when 
two-thirds cooked, add the pumpkin to it, and finish 
cooking them together. Add a little cream and 
pepper at the last, and, if necessary, more salt. 

161.— Salsifis Fritters. 

Scrape them and soak them in some water and 
vinegar; then boil them in plenty of water, with 
salt and a little flour, so as to keep them white: 
When cooked, drain them ; then season and fry them 
like cauliflower fritters (141). 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 69 

162. — Dressed Salsifis. 

After they are boiled as above, dress them with 
maitre d'h6tel butter, or yellow sauce, or melted 
butter. 

163. — Salsifis and Cheese. 

After they are boiled as above, toss them up with a 
little melted butter and grated cheese. 

164. — Celery and Sauce. 

After the celery is boiled, serve it with any sauce 
liked. 

165.— Celery Fritters. 

After the celery is boiled, divide it in pieces, and 
fty in batter like the cauliflower or salsifis. 

166.— Celery " an Jus." 

After the celery is parboiled, drain it ; put it in a 
stewpan ; toss it in a little oil. Add the remains of 
some roast beef or mutton gravy (or a little of the pot 
au feu soup) ; add a tomato ; simmer together till the 
celery* is quite cooked. Strain the sauce and serve it 
over the celery. 

167 — Scalloped Salsifi or Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Boil the vegetable till cooked, and cut it into 
pieces the size of an oyster. Now mix 1 ounce of 



70 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

butter with 1 ounce of flour, a little cream, half a 
teaspoonful of anchovy paste; add 1 yolk of egg, a 
little lemon-juice. Stir the vegetable in this sauce. 
Put all together in a baking-dish, sprinkle the top 
with bread-crumbs and a few very small lumps of 
butter, and bake about 15 to 20 minutes. 

N.B. — Eemains of celery, or cauliflowers or leeks, 
are excellent cooked in this way. 



168.— Cucumbers " k la Maitre d'Hotel." 

Peel them, split them down in four, take out the 
seeds ; cut them into lengths 3 inches long ; put them 
into boiling water and salt, boil them until just tender ; 
take them out and drain them. Then put them in a 
saucepan, with a lump of butter blended with flour, 
chopped parsley (onion if liked), pepper, and salt ; toss 
them up for about 5 minutes, and serve very hot. 



168a. — Cucumbers " a la Poulette." 

After they are boiled and drained as above, put 
them in a saucepan, with a little cream, or white sauce, 
or milk; simmer for 5 or 10 minutes; take out the 
cucumbers. Thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs; 
season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; serve over 
the cucumbers. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 71 

169.— Carrots " & la Poulette." 

When the carrots are scraped, washed, and scalded, 
cut them into slices ; boil them till cooked in hot water 
with a lump of butter; when cooked, drain them. 
Blend over the fire some butter and flour, together 
with pepper and salt ; add some white stock, a couple 
of yolks of eggs, a squeeze of lemon. Toss the carrots 
in this, but do not let them boil, and serve. 

170.— Carrots " & la Maitre <T Hotel." 

Scrape, wash, and scald the carrots in boiling water ; 
cook them in hot water with salt and a lump of butter ; 
when cooked, remove them, and put them to drain. 
Mix in a saucepan a lump of butter, chopped parsley, 
and a little chopped shallot, pepper, and salt. Put in 
the carrots; toss them up a couple of minutes, and 
serve them, either with or without fried sippets. 

171. — Hashed Carrots. 

Scrape and wash some young carrots ; soak them 
in boiling water for a few minutes ; cut them into slices ; 
put them in a stewpan, with a lump of butter, pepper, 
salt, chopped parsley, a little milk. Cook them gently. 
When they are cooked, thicken the sauce with 1, 
2, or 8 yolks of eggs, and serve it over the carrots. 

Another way. — After the carrots are prepared as 



72 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

above, put them in a stewpan, with a slice of bacon, 
chopped parsley, chopped shallot, pepper and salt, a 
little stock or gravy. Cook the carrots until done; 
take them out; continue cooking the sauce a little 
longer, strain it, and serve it over the carrots. 

172. — Glazed Carrots. 

Cut some young red carrots into round balls ; boil 
them in boiling water for 5 minutes ; take them out 
and drain them. Then put them in a stewpan with 
butter ; sprinkle a little castor sugar over, and pepper 
and salt ; add a little good meat gravy. Simmer slowly 
till the carrots are cooked ; then boil up rapidly for a 
few minutes, so as to evaporate most of the gravy, 
and serve. 

173. — Turnips " en Poulette." 

Young turnips cut into balls. Boil them for a few 
minutes ; drain them ; blend a little flour and butter 
in a saucepan; add some white stock; put in the 
turnips, and simmer them till done. Take out the 
turnips ; thicken the sauce with butter and yolks of 
eggs, and serve over the turnips. 

174. — Turnips " au Gratin." 

Boil the turnips ; cut them in thin slices ; put them 
in a deep baking-dish, with layers of gravy, Parmesan 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 73 

cheese, pepper, and salt. Sprinkle bread-crumbs on 
the top, and bake about 15 minutes. 

A white sauce can be used instead of brown gravy, 
and makes an equally good and savoury dish. 



175. — Purde of Turnips. 

Cut the turnips into slices, boil them for a few 
minutes, drain them ; put them in a saucepan, with 
a lump of butter, pepper, salt, and some stock ; simmer 
slowly until done. When cooked, pass through a 
sieve ; put them back on the fire, add a little cream 
or butter, and serve up hot. If the purfee should be 
too liquid, add a little potato flour at the same time 
as the cream, and simmer together for a few minutes. 



176. — Glazed Turnips. 

Cut young turnips into round balls, boil them for 
5 minutes in boiling water, then drain them. Now 
butter a stewpan, place the turnips side by side, pour 
over them some good stock or gravy; sprinkle over 
a little castor sugar, salt and pepper, and a very little 
mace. As soon as they begin to boil, cover the saucepan 
with a buttered paper and the lid ; let them simmer 
until cooked. Take out the turnips ; add a little gravy 
to what remains in the saucepan ; boil up once or twice, 
and pour over the turnips. 



74 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

177. — Tossed Tomatoes. 

Peel them and cut them in slices ; put them in a 
saucepan, with some bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and 
butter ; stir them all thoroughly together, and simmer 
for half an hour. 1 breakfast-cupful of bread-crumbs to 
3 of tomatoes is about the right quantity. Canned 
tomatoes are good cooked in this manner, but without 
the water which is in the can That can be saved for 
soup, not thrown away. 

178. — Tomato au Gratin. 

Cut some ripe tomatoes in slices; place them in 
a baking-dish in layers, with some chopped onion and 
bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, and a little gravy 
between each layer ; cover the top with a last layer 
of bread-crumbs and a few lumps of butter. Bake 
about 20 minutes. 

If fresh tomatoes are not at hand, the canned 
tomato pur^e will be found a good substitute. 

179. — Fricassee of Mushrooms. 

Peel the mushrooms, then put them for a minute 
into boiling water, then into cold; wipe them dry. 
Put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, toss 
them a couple of minutes, and stir in some flour, pepper, 
salt, little parsley, and thyme. Add some stock, and 



VEQE1ABLES, ETC. 75 

simmer together half an hour. Strain the sauce ; beat 
a few yolks of eggs with some lemon-juice, stir it into 
the sauce, and serve with the mushrooms. 

N.B. — If the fricassee is served alone, have some 
fried sippets ; place the mushrooms on the sippets, and 
pour the sauce on the top. 

180. — Croustades of Mushrooms. 

Chop an onion very small, fry it in butter a pale 
brown, stir it carefully, then add a quarter of a pound 
of finely chopped mushrooms ; simmer together till the 
mushrooms are two-thirds cooked. Soak 2 anchovies, 
pound them in a mortar with a teaspoonful of French 
mustard, 3 tablespoonfuls of brown sauce ; add this to 
the mushrooms. Boil together for 2 or 3 minutes, and 
fill your croustade cases. 

18}.. — Mushrooms " a la Bordelaise." 

Put some oil on a flat baking-dish ; sprinkle some 
bread-crumbs and finely chopped parsley ; lay over this 
some mushrooms, then some more oil, parsley, pepper 
and salt, bread-crumbs, and mushrooms. Bake about 
half an hour, according to the thickness of the mush- 
rooms. 

182.— Beetroot " a la CrSme." 

Peel a beetroot and cut it into slices, then cook it 
very slowly in a melted butter sauce or white becha- 
mel. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. 



76 WHOLESOME COOK&RY. 



183.— Hot Polish Salad (Bed Cabbage Salad). 

Cut a red cabbage in shreds; melt some goose 
dripping; season it to taste with vinegar, salt, and 
pepper. When it is hot, put in the cabbage and let it 
simmer ; at the last moment stir in a few yolks of eggs. 

N.B. — If no goose dripping is at hand, butter or 
oil can be used. 



184. — Curried Macaroni. 

Boil some macaroni and drain it ; put it into the 
curry sauce; simmer for 5 or 10 minutes, and serve. 
Each piece of macaroni must be quite separate, and not 
cooked to a paste. 



185. — Macaroni " en Timbale." 

Have some boiled macaroni; drain it well; put it in 
a saucepan, with pepper, salt, butter, and grated Par- 
mesan and Gruyfere cheeses ; toss it on the fire till the 
cheese is melted, and not longer. Have a buttered tin ; 
line it with a nice thin paste ; put the macaroni in it, 
cover the top with more paste, and fix a well-buttered 
paper on the top (to prevent the paste from burning). 
Put it in a hot oven, and bake from half an hour to an 
hour, according to the size. Turn out of the tin and 
serve. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 77 

186. — Macaroni and Tomato. 

Boil the macaroni in stock, pour cold water over it, 
then drain it. Put some butter in a saucepan, then the 
macaroni, some grated Parmesan and Gruyfere cheeses, 
pepper, salt, little nutmeg, little cream, and thick 
tomato sauce ; toss altogether for a few minutes. 

187. — Curried Vegetables. 

Remains of any cooked or partly cooked vegetables, 
the greater variety the better. Fry them all in butter, 
with a little onion ; add a little curry powder, prepared 
cocoa-nut, sour milk. Stew not less than three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Must be stewed slowly, and be like 
a thick pulp, not liquid. Serve with rice. 

188. — Egg or Vegetable Curry. 

Make a good curry sauce (recipe 90). Warm in it 
the slices of hard-boiled egg or cold cooked slices of 
vegetables. Serve with rice. 

189. — Vegetable Border Mould. 

Make a pur^e of whichever vegetable you are 
going to use. When nicely smooth and flavoured, stir 
in a couple of yolks of eggs, press the mixture into a 
buttered border mould, and steam about 20 minutes. 



78 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

Turn out, and serve inside a savoury mince, or cutlets, 
or small rissoles, etc. 

190.—" Timbale de LSgumes." 

Boil some vegetables, such as young carrots, green 
peas, French beans, young broad beans, and cauli- 
flowers; drain them, and toss them up in a yellow 
sauce. Butter a mould, line it with paste, put in 
the vegetables, cover the mould with paste. Fix a 
buttered paper on the top to prevent it burning. Bake 
in the oven about half an hour to an hour, according 
to the size. Turn out and serve, without delay. 

191. — PurSe of Chestnuts. 

Roast the chestnuts, peel them carefully, toss them 
in a little butter ; add some stock, pepper, salt, and a 
little light white wine. Let them simmer until they are 
quite soft. Pass through a hair sieve, and put them 
back on the fire ; add a little cream, and serve alone 
or with cutlets. 

192. — Haricot Beans " a la Provencal." 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 anchovies, a shallot, 
a clove of garlic, all pounded small, in a saucepan. Put 
in your cooked beans ; toss up for a few minutes over 
the fire ; add a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
and a sliced gherkin ; toss all together. Put a little 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 79 

lemon-juice or vinegar in the saucepan ; boil it up a 
minute with the sauce which adheres to the saucepan. 
Pour it over the beans and serve. 

N.B. — Those who do not like oil or garlic can use 
butter instead of oil, and leave out the garlic. 

193. — Haricot Beans (Plain). 

Soak them in cold water for 3 hours, then put 
them in cold water (with or without an onion), and 
boil them for 3 hours. Drain them ; put them back in 
the saucepan, with a little gravy, or with butter, 
pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Toss them a few minutes 
over the fire, and serve them. 

194. — Lentils. 

Wash them, throw them in cold water, and boil 
for 2 hours (they ought then to be thoroughly cooked, 
and yet not broken). Drain the water off', and put 
them back in the saucepan, with some gravy, or with a 
little butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Toss them 
a few minutes over the fire, and serve them. If liked, 
boil an onion with the lentils. 

• 

195. — Puree of Lentils. 

Boil some lentils in water and salt, with an onion, 
a carrot, bunch of herbs. When thoroughly cooked, 
pass them through a hair sieve ; put them back on the 



80 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

fire, and stew them for a few minutes, with a little 
butter or gravy. Serve with a border of fried sippets. 
The pur^e must be of the consistency and smoothness 
of well-mashed potatoes. 

196.— Furde of Bed Beans. 

Proceed as above. 

197. — Purfe of Split Green Peas. 
Proceed as with lentils. 

198. — Brittany Beans. 

Cut some onions in thin shreds, scald them and 
drain them. Fry them in butter till they are a pale 
brown, then sprinkle them over with flour, pepper, 
and salt, and toss them up for 5 minutes. Add some 
stock, and stew for about 20 minutes, taking care to 
stir frequently, so that the onion does not stick to the 
saucepan. Then add some well-cooked haricot beans, 
some butter ; toss altogether, and serve. 

199.— Purde of White Haricot Beans " & la Creme." 

Boil the beans with a bunch of herbs and an onion.; 
pass through a hair sieve ; put them back in a saucepan 
with a little butter and some cream, pepper, and salt. 
Toss up for a few minutes, and serve. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 81 

200.— Broad Beans " i, la Creme." 

Take them as young as possible; boil them for a 
few minutes, then put them in a saucepan, with a 
lump of butter, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and 
a glass of milk. When cooked, take out the beans. 
Thicken the sauce with one or two yolks of eggs beaten 
up with cream, and serve over the beans. 

N.B. — If the beans are not quite young and tender, 
take off the outside skin after they have been boiled 
for a few minutes, and before they are put with the 
butter, etc. 

201. — Brazilian Black Beans. 

Soak the beans for 3 hours ; boil them 3 more hours ; 
drain them, and put them in another saucepan, with 
some small pieces of bacon, a little mushroom ketchup, 
and half a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a pinch of 
chutnee, and a little gravy or stock. Stew all together 
for half an hour, and serve with boiled rice or powdered 
mandioca root. 

N.B. — The Brazilians stew the beans with various 
sorts of meat in place of the sauces. 

202.— Venetian Bice (" Risotto a la Venitienne "). 

Fatna rice, 1 teacupful. Boil it for 20 minutes 
in 1 teacupful of brown gravy, with half an onion. 
The rice will then be cooked, and each grain dry. 



82 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

Stir in 2 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and half 
an ounce of butter ; pepper and salt to taste. Mix 
well together, and leave by the side of the fire for 10 
minutes. 

203. — Milanese Bice (" Risotto & la Milanaise "). 

r Patna rice, 1 teacupful. Throw it into 1 teacupful 
of boiling white stock or milk; add half a chopped 
onion. Put on the lid, and let the rice boil for 20 
minutes. The rice should be then quite cooked and 
dry, each grain separate. Blend a small pinch of saffron 
(not more than will lie on a threepenny piece) in half 
an ounce of butter ; stir this into the rice, with 1 ounce 
of grated Parmesan cheese ; pepper and salt to taste. 
Stir all well together. Cover the saucepan, and leave 
it by the side of the fire for 10 minutes. 

204. — Neapolitan Bice ("Risotto a la Napolitaine "). 

1 teacupful of Patna rice, 1 teacupful of tomato 
sauce, half an ounce of butter, 2 ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Throw the rice into the boiling 
tomato sauce, put the lid on, and boil 20 minutes ; then 
stir in the cheese and butter, pepper and salt to taste, 
and let it all stand by the side of the fire for 10 
minutes. 

N.B. — If the rice should be too dry, moisten with 
tomato sauce. 

If Carolina rice is used, boil 30 minutes instead of 20. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 83 

205. — Curried Bice. 

1 teacupful of Patna rice to 1 teacupful of boil- 
ing water, 1 dessert-spoonful of curry powder, half 
■an ounce of butter. Throw the rice into the boiling 
water, put on the lid, and let it boil 20 minutes. The 
rice ought then to be cooked, and each grain dry 
and separate. Blend the curry powder and butter 
together, and let it cook for 20 minutes in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of stock. If not quite smooth, strain it, 
stir it into the rice, and let it stand at the side of the 
fire for 15 minutes. 

If Carolina rice is used, cook it half an hour. 

206.— Pumpkin " a l'ltalienne." 

Cut some pumpkin into square pieces ; boil it in 
salt and water for 15 minutes; take it out and let it 
, drain. Put a good lump of butter in a saucepan; toss 
the pieces of pumpkin in this, with salt and pepper ; 
then place the pumpkin and butter on a baking-dish, 
sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese over, and bake 
a, few minutes in the oven. 

207. — Onion and Tomato Salad. 

Parboil some Spanish onions ; scald and peel some 
tomatoes ; slice them, and put them in a salad bowl. 
Add a little chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, 



84 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

pepper and salt; stir in thoroughly some oil, then 
vinegar to taste. Must be prepared 4 or 5 hours 
before it is eaten. 



208. — Chartreuse de Legumes. 

Boil a beetroot, carrots, a cauliflower, a few peas, 
and some bottoms of French artichokes, or Jerusalem 
artichokes, French beans — in fact, any vegetables in 
season. Line a mould with alternate slices of carrot 
and beetroot cut very thin ; then fill the mould with 
alternate layers of vegetables, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, and moisten with a little beaten yolk of 
egg. Press the contents down, steam about 20 

■ 

minutes, and serve hot with a rich bechamel sauce 
round it. 

N.B. — If liked cold, do not steam it, but leave out 
the egg and turn it out cold, and serve a mayonnaise 
sauce round, in which mix a few capers. 

209. — Plain Vegetable Salad. 

Boil separately equal quantities of young carrots> 
cauliflower, French beans, peas, asparagus tops, and 
potatoes, and half the quantity of young turnips. 
Drain them thoroughly ; cut up the carrots, turnips, 
potatoes, and cauliflowers ; place all in a salad bowl, 
and dress with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, or, if 
preferred, a mayonnaise sauce. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 85 

210. — Aiguebelle Fritters. 

Pound 5 potatoes ; add a pinch of Gruyfere cheese, 
10 eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, pepper and salt. 
Beat the eggs well before adding them to the other 
ingredients ; mix all together very thoroughly. Divide 
the mixture in pieces about the size of an Osborne 
biscuit, fry in boiling fat, and serve. 

211. — Italian Eggs. 

Boil some eggs hard, cut them in halves, take out 
the yolks and weigh them. Take as much butter as 
will equal the weight of the hard yolks ; put them 
together in a mortar, and pound them with a little 
bread-crumb soaked in milk or cream, chopped pars- 
ley, 1 anchovy, a little chopped onion, grated nutmeg, 
pepper and salt. Cook this to a thick paste with a little 
cream or gravy. Fill the empty whites with this, 
and serve cold with a salad, or hot in any sauce 
liked, or on a puree of vegetable. Before cutting the 
eggs in half, you must cut a small piece off each end, 
so that each half can stand firm like a small cup. 

N.B. — These eggs are good eaten cold with a salad. 

212.— Buttered Eggs. 

Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, break in some 
eggs, add pepper and salt; stir with a wooden spoon, 



86 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

until the eggs are set. Serve at once, with or without 
fried sippets. 

3 eggs to 1 ounce of butter will be foupd the 
right proportion. Buttered eggs can be flavoured 
with any material liked, such as the. remains of dressed 
spinach, green peas, asparagus tops, tomato sauce, 
soubise sauce, chopped ham, stewed mushrooms. 

213. — Buttered Eggs and Cheese. 

Proceed as above, but add 1 tablespoonful of grated 
Parmesan cheese to every 3 eggs. 

214.— Buttered Eggs " an Jus." 

When the eggs are cooked as above, pour over them 
some hot clear gravy, such as the remains of gravy 
from roast beef or roast birds. 

215. — Buttered Eggs (Spanish Manner). 

Peel 2 tomatoes ; fry them in some boiling oil with 
a little chopped onion, or shallot, or garlic. Break in 2 
eggs, add pepper and salt, stir with a wooden spoon 
till just set, and serve quite hot. 

216.— Eggs and Fine Herbs. 

Put in a saucepan some chopped parsley, shallot, 
thyme, pepper, salt, gill of light white wine, a lump of 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 87 

butter, and sufficient flour to thicken; boil this a 
quarter of an hour. Put some hard-boiled eggs on a 
dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. 



217.— Eggs " en Matelote." 

Put in a saucepan 1 gill of red wine, 1 gill of stock; 
add a bunch of herbs, 1 onion (1 clove of garlic if 
liked), a few spices, pepper and salt ; boil all together 
10 minutes. Strain the sauce, and poach, one after the 
other, G eggs ; take them out and put each egg on a 
fried sippet ; boil the sauce up for a few minutes. Add 
a lump of butter, and thicken with flour; boil till the 
flour is cooked, and serve over the eggs. 

N.B. — A white matelote can be made in this 
manner : Boil some cream ; when boiling, poach some 
eggs one after the other in it. Flavour the cream with 
pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; serve it over the eggs, 
and fried sippets round. The quantity of cream 
used must depend on the number of eggs poached, and 
whether a quantity of sauce is liked with them. 



218. — Poached Eggs and Tomato Sauce. 

Have a thick tomato sauce ; when it is boiling, stir 
in a little butter, then poach some eggs in the sauce. 
Dish the eggs up; pour the sauce over them, and 
serve with fried sippets. 



88 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

N.B. — Eggs poached in bechamel, Kobert, piquante, 
curry, and ravigote sauces are equally good 

N.B. — Hard-boiled eggs simmered for a few minutes 
in any of the above sauces are also very good. The 
dishes may be varied by serving some plain boiled 
rice instead of fried sippets. 

219. — Eggs " aux Asperges." 

Have some small tender asparagus cut in pieces ; 
soak them for a couple of minutes in boiling water, then 
put them in a saucepan with some parsley, shallot, and 
butter. Add a pinch of flour, and simmer together ; then 
add a little water or stock, pepper and salt. When 
cooked, pour the sauce in a baking-dish ; place your 
raw eggs on the top, taking care not to break the 
yolks ; sprinkle with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cook 
in the oven till the eggs are set, and serve hot. 

220.— Eggs " sur le Plat." 

it 

Spread some butter on a baking-dish ; break the 
eggs on to the dish, taking care to keep the yolks 
whole ; sprinkle pepper and salt over. Put the dish 
in the oven or on the side of the stove till set ; serve 
at once on the same dish. If the white adheres to the 
bottom of the dish, the eggs are too much cooked, or 
there was not sufficient butter. They take about 5 
minutes. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 39 

221.— Eggs " a la Tripe." 

Cut an onion in slices ; toss it in butter without 
letting it get brown. When the onion is soft, add some 
flour, cream, pepper, salt, nutmeg ; stew together very 
slowly. When thoroughly cooked, add some hard- 
boiled eggs cut in slices. Toss up a minute or two, so 
as to heat the eggs, but do not allow them to boil. 
Serve at once. 

222.— Omelet. 

4 eggs. Beat them thoroughly together, then beat 
them again with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. 
Melt 1 J ounce of butter in a pan, and cook the omelet 
over a quick fire ; double it over, and serve. Must be 
a pale yellow colour, and not brown ; must be eaten 
as soon as made. 

223. — Ham Omelet 

Is made exactly like the above, substituting finely 
chopped cooked ham in place of herbs. 

224. — Savoury Omelets. 

Savoury omelets can be made in a variety of ways. 
Instead of using herbs or ham, use a few cooked 
asparagus tops, or the remains of a few dressed peas, 
or a little chopped stewed kidney, stewed mushrooms, 



90 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

or the remains of some dressed macaroni. In fact, the 
remains of any savoury material (a very small quan- 
tity, of course) can be used for flavouring an omelet. 

225. — Omelet and Tomato. 

Make a plain savoury omelet as above ; just before 
doubling it over, put in a few tablespoonfuls of thickly 
made tomato 'sauce, and serve a little more of the 
sauce round the omelet. 

226.— Omelet "a la Soubise." 

Have a thickly made soubise sauce; place it in 
the omelet before it is doubled over, and serve im- 
mediately. 

227. — Omelet " aux Ognons." 

Cut an onion up very fine ; cook it slowly in butter. 
Have your eggs well beaten, with pepper and salt ; stir 
the onion in with it, and cook in your pan in the 
usual manner. 

228.— Omelet " a la Jardiniere: 1 

Use some remains of a vegetable macddoine to- 
beat up with the eggs, and cook your omelet in the 
usual manner. Use the remainder of the macddoine 
round the omelet (the vegetables must be very savoury > 
of course). 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 91 

229.— Truffles (To Prepare). 

Wash them in 2 or 3 cold waters; brush thein 
well, until not a particle of earth remains. Place 
them in a small saucepan with enough marsala, or 
champagne, or white wine to nearly, if not quite, 
cover them. Boil for 10 minutes with the lid on. 
Now draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let 
them remain just warm for half an hour; then peel 
them, and chop them up for use. Put the peel back 
in the remainder of the wine ; let it simmer for a long 
time, or until the wine is reduced to half its quantity ; 
then melt in this some glaze, about the size of a 
filbert. Strain through a hair sieve for use. 

230.— Truffled Omelet. 

When your omelet is just set, place the truffles 
(prepared as above) in the centre, and about a table- 
spoonful of the truffled gravy ; double the omelet up 
carefully and serve at once. The omelet must be of a, 
pale golden colour, and not hard or leathery. 



92 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 



231.— Polish Fillet of Beef. 



Rub the fillet with a little salt ; leave it 4 hours. 
Now boil some vinegar, wine, and water, in equal 
quantities, with an onion, a clove, a bay leaf, a couple 
of slices of a lemon, some thyme, and a little ginger. 
Pour this hot over the fillet, and leave. Each day boil 
up the liquor, and pour it 2 or 3 times over the fillet. 
Do this for 3 days. Now lard the beef with fillets of 
anchovy. Place some thin slices of bacon fat at the 
bottom of a stewpan ; place the fillet upon it ; cover 
it with some more slices of bacon fat ; pour round a 
small quantity of the liquor the beef has soaked in, 
then cover the stewpan with a greased paper and the 
lid. Place it on the side of the fire to simmer slowly ; 
baste it frequently with the liquor in which the beef 
is cooking, and alternately with a little sour milk. 
When the fillet is cooked, clear it from any fat which 
may have settled upon it. Make a sauce with flour, 
sour milk, butter, a pounded anchovy, and some of the 
liquor from the beef. Add a few capers, and serve 
round the beef. 



MEATS ANT) MUDS. 93 

232.— Fillets of Beef Sautes. 

Trim some pieces of fillet about 1 inch thick and 
2 inches in diameter. Fry them till brown on both 
sides in butter over a quick fire ; then have ready a 
sauce made with half a pint of good stock or thickened 
gravy, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of sherry, 2 dessert-spoonfuls 
of ketchup, pepper and salt to taste. Put in the fillets 
and simmer a few minutes. Add a little lemon-juice 
and serve hot. 

233. — Fillets of Beef and Olives. 

Take the undercut of a sirloin or some tender fillet 
of rump ; cut and trim it into pieces all about the same 
size. Rub them well with a little oil and vinegar. Toss 
them up for a minute or two in some butter ; then add 
stock, gravy, or water, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 2 
wine-glassfuls of claret or of sherry ; thicken with 
flour. Put on the lid and stew very gently until done. 
Five minutes before dishing up, add some stoned olives, 

233a. — Filet de Boeuf aux (Eufs PochSs. 

Trim a fillet of beef and lard it thoroughly ; tie it 
to keep it in shape. Put it in a stewpan, with a sliced 
carrot, a sliced onion, a bunch of herbs, a little good 
stock, a glassful of Madeira, pepper and salt; simmer 
very slowly until the fillet is cooked. Skim the gravy 



4H WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

and strain it ; poach some eggs in this until the yolks 
are quite set, then simmer in the gravy some artichoke 
bottoms and some mushrooms. Dish up the beef with 
the artichokes, mushrooms, and eggs around it. 



234.— Fillets of Beef and Oysters. 

Proceed as for fillets of beef and olives, but sub- 
stitute oysters in place of the olives. 



234a.— Roast Fillet of Beef. 

Have a nicely trimmed fillet of beef; lard it 
thoroughly well ; place it on a dish, with a little oil, 
salt, pepper, parsley, bay leaf, and a few slices of 
onion; leave it 12 hours, and turn it frequently. 
Roast it before the fire, and serve with its own gravy, 
into which at the last add a squeeze of lemon. 

235. — Beef and Macaroni. 

Slice 2 large onions and fry them very thoroughly 
in a little butter. Have a small fillet of the rump, 
about 1| pound ; lard it ; put it in the stewpan, with 
the onions and 2 pints of water or stock. If you use 
water, you must add a few vegetables. Simmer gently 
for 2 hours ; now add half a pound of macaroni, and 
stew gently for another 35 minutes. Take out the 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 95 

beef and dish it up with some of the gravy. Strain 
the macaroni; put it back on the fire, with a small 
lump of butter and about 2 J ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese; stir it over the fire for 2 minutes, and serve 
either round the beef or in a separate dish. Must be 
dished up very hot. 



236. — Fillet of Beef " BraisS & la Pur6e de Tomates." 

Put the beef in a stewpan, with a small quantity 
of light white wine, 1 tablespoonful of brandy and 
good stock, an onion, carrot, bay leaf, a bunch of 
thyme and parsley, pepper and salt Bring it rather 
quickly to a boil ; skim it very carefully ; then let it 
simmer, till done, either by the side of the fire or in 
the oven. Take out the beef; skim the sauce again 
carefully, and strain it ; put it back on the fire to re- 
duce, then add to it a very thick puree of tomatoes. 
Simmer together for 10 minutes, and serve it round 

the beef. 

237.— Silver Side of Beef Stewed. 

Put 6 or 7 pounds of beef in a stewpan, with 

2 carrots cut in four, 1 or 2 onions, a small handful 
of dried vegetables (or fresh leek, parsnip, celery), 

3 cloves, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
1 bay leaf, half a ball of browning, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
ketchup, 1 glass of sherry or other white wine, 1£ 



96 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

to 2 pints of water, salt and pepper to taste. Shut 
up the stewpan very tightly and stew gently for 
3 hours. A short time before dishing, take out the 
beef, strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour. 
Put the beef in again to warm, and serve quite hot. 
(Vegetables can be used for a soup next day.) It is an 
improvement to lard the beef, and to cook a white 
calf's foot with it. The calf 's foot can be used either 
with sauce or fried in batter. 

238.— Cold Galantine of Beef. 

Take a well-shaped piece of silver side of the round, 
about 5 pounds, without bone or fat ; lard it and tie it 
up tight. Put in a saucepan 1 onion sliced, 1 carrot 
sliced, 1 tablespoonful of butter hot, any trimmings of 
veal or liver you may have (if you have none, add a 
calf's foot), and 2 quarts of broth or stock. Put in the 
beef; add pepper, salt, 3 cloves, 2 bay leaves, some 
parsley, chopped shallot ; place on a good fire for a few 
minutes and skim, then draw it to the side of the fire, 
and let it simmer gently for four hours or more. Put 
the beef into a large mould ; strain the gravy through 
a piece of muslin, and pour it into the mould ; let it 
stand till cold. Then remove any fat that may have 
set round it. 

The calf's foot can be boned and used either with 
sauce, or egged, bread-crumbed, and fried. 



MEATS AND BIBDS. 97 

239. — Haricot of Mutton. 

Cut up a breast of mutton ; toss the pieces in butter, 
till they are slightly coloured : thicken the butter with' 
flour. Put back the meat; add some stock, a few 
potatoes, an onion or two, a little thyme, parsley, pepper, 
salt, bay leaf and nutmeg ; simmer gently till cooked ; 
skim carefully, and serve. 

240.— Mutton (Hung). 

Hang a leg of mutton knuckle downwards ; cover 
the thick top end with brown sugar; be careful to 
rub it every day and to keep it covered with sugar. 
When well hung, roast it in the usual manner, 

241.— Leg of Mutton " a l'Allemande." 

Wipe a leg of mutton thoroughly ; rub it with salt 
and spices; pour some boiling plain malt vinegar 
over ; turn the mutton in it 3 or 4 times. Leave it 
in this brine for four days, and turn it each day. 
Then take out the mutton; rub it again with salt 
and pepper ; lard it well. Put it in a stewpan, with 
a sliced onion, sprig of parsley, slice of lemon, a crust 
of brown bread, and two tablespoonfuls of the brine. 
Simmer the meat in this until done, basting it fre- 
quently with sour Cream, and turning it also frequently. 

Prepare the sauce as follows: — Fry some onion 



08 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

slightly in a little butter ; add some stock or gravy ; 
cook it till the onions are dona Pass through a hair 
sieve, and serve round the meat. To be eaten with 
a potato salad. 

242. — Stewed Leg of Mutton. 

A couple of slices of ham, 4 carrots, a couple of 
onions (all cut up), 3 bay leaves, thyme, parsley, leek, 
celery, 2 cloves, pepper, salt, 1 gill of gravy (or 2 if 
the leg of mutton is a large one), 1 gill of white wine. 
Brown the mutton for a few minutes in butter ; add 
the above ingredients. Cover the saucepan with 
paper, place the lid on the top, and stew from 5 to 
7 hours, very gently indeed. Before serving, skim 
the gravy, pass it through a hair sieve, and serve 
round the mutton. The vegetables will make a nice 
soup next day. 

243.— Cotelettes de Mouton aux Ognons. 

Trim some cutlets; lard them with some ham and 
fresh larding fat, using a very fine larding-needle for 
the purpose. Put the trimmings of the cutlets in a 
saucepan, with a couple of small onions, a couple of 
carrots, bunch of parsley, pepper, and salt. Lay the 
cutlets on this ; add enough gravy or stock to cover 
them, a few slices of larding pork on the top. Cover 
with a buttered paper, and the lid fixed tightly on ; 
simmer till cooked. Now take out the cutlets; pass 



MEATS AND BIRD 8, 99 

the sauce through a sieve, put it back on the fire, and 
let it simmer till it is almost reduced to a glaze. Put 
the cutlets in this ; turn them so as to cover them on 
both sides with the glaze. Dish them up with some 
" ognons k la cr&me." 

244. — Breast of Mutton " a la Sauce Piquante." 

Simmer the breast of mutton in some stock, with 
carrot, turnip, onion, bunch of herbs, pepper, and salt. 
When cooked, bone it carefully, then egg and bread- 
crumb it. Broil it or grill it on or before the fire, and 
serve with a sauce piquante. 

245. — Foreign Stew. 

Cut in pieces some beef or mutton (beef is best) ; 
rub each piece with vinegar to make it tender ; put 
the meat in a jar, with some carrots, turnips, onion, 
-all sliced; season with pepper and salt; sprinkle a 
little flour over. Place a piece of well-greased paper 
over the jar, then the lid, and then a heavy weight. 
Bake in a slow oven for four or five hours. 

246.— Stewed Neck of Mutton. 

Trim off part of the fat, and cut it up into nicely 
shaped cutlets. Lay some of the cutlets in a stewpan, 
with pepper and salt ; then a layer of gcesci ^as^*. 



100 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

little sliced onion, some lettuce broken in pieces ; then 
another layer of meat and vegetables and slices of 
cucumber. Pour over this about 1 pint of water, and 
stew very gently. Should the water evaporate, add a 
little more, or add gravy. Skim off all the fat very 
carefully and dish up. The cucumber ought to be 
taken out as soon as it is cooked, which it will be 
before the other ingredients, and it can be added in 
again just before dishing up. 

247. — Savoury Mould. 

Mince up very small the remains of any cold meats, 
the greater variety the better. Add a slice of bread 
soaked in milk, pepper and salt, a spoonful of chutnee. 
Put all together in a saucepan, with sufficient stock or 
gravy to moisten it ; stew slightly for a few minutes ; 
put it in a mould and steam half an hour. Turn out 
with a nice gravy round, or any sauce liked. 

N.B. — This mould is good cold, served with a salad. 

248.— Fricandeau of Veal. 

Have a nicely shaped piece of veal (either fillet or 
cushion) ; lard it very thoroughly on both sides. Put 
in a saucepan the trimmings of your veal and larding 
pork, some chopped onion, chopped carrots, bunch of 
herbs, bay leaf, a couple of cloves, and some stock. 
Place the veal in this, and let it simmer till cooked. 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 10i 

Be careful to frequently baste the top of the veal 
with some of the gravy it is cooking in. When you 
are not basting, keep the saucepan covered. When the 
veal is cooked, take it out. Skim the sauce carefully, 
and strain it ; put it in another saucepan, and let it 
stew till very much reduced. Now put the veal back, 
and leave it to colour (that part of the veal which is 
in the sauce will colour). Dish up the veal. Stijr 
into the gravy a couple of tablespoonfuls of stock, so 
as to move all the gravy from the sides ; pour it over 
the veal. You must be careful to dish up the side of 
the veal which was downwards in the gravy. 

N.B.— If you are going to serve a pureSe of spinach 
or endive or sorrel with the veal, you will dress your 
pur^e with the veal gravy, and serve the whole thing 
round the veal. 

249.— Fillet of Veal " aux Anchois." 

Take a thick slice off a fillet of veal ; lard it through 
with some fillets of anchovy, season with pepper and 
salt. Pour over it some plain vinegar ; leave it about 
8 hours, then wipe the vinegar off. Sprinkle some 
flour over it on both sides ; put some oil in a frying- 
pan, and toss the veal in it over a slow fire ; turn it 
frequently on both sides. Take out the veal. Put the 
juice of 1 lemon into the sauce, stir it well over the 
fire ; pour it over the veal and serve. 



102 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



250. — "Cervelles," or Brains (To prepare). 

Put the brains to soak in warm water until you 
can easily remove the skin and free them from blood. 
Then put them in cold water with a little salt, and let 
them remain for an hour or two. Now simmer them 
very gently for about three-quarters of an hour in 
sufficient milk to cover them, with a carrot, turnip, 
onion, 2 cloves, pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar. The vegetables and, cloves must be tied in a 
piece of muslin. The stock the brains are cooked in 
can be used for a vegetable soup. 

' 251.— Cervelles frites. 

After the brains are cooked, cut them into pieces, 
egg and bread-crumb them. Fry them slightly on both 
sides in butter, then toss a little chopped parsley in 
the same butter; add a squeeze of lemon, and pour 
the butter and parsley over the brains. 



252. — Cervelles or Sweetbreads "a l'Espagnole." 

Prepare the brains according to the first part 
of recipe 250. Then in the bottom of a saucepan 
put some small pieces of veal trimmings, a couple of 
onions and carrots, a couple of slices of larding pork- 
Put the brains or sweetbreads over this, add a small 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 103 

quantity of very good stock, cover with a buttered 
paper and the lid, and simmer until done. Take the 
brains or sweetbreads out. Continue to simmer the 
sauce till nearly thick; strain it; put the brains or 
sweetbreads back in it for a few minutes. Dish them 
up. Pour a little stock or gravy into the sauce, so as 
to move all that adheres to the side of the saucepan, 
and serve it over the brains, etc. If sweetbreads are 
used, lard them, before they are cooked, with a fine 
larding needle. 



253. — Cervelles or Sweetbreads "en Matelote." 

After they are prepared as above, cook them with 
a little white wine, water, and vegetables (no vinegar). 
When cooked, strain the stock they are cooked in 
through a hair sieve. Now fry some small onions in 
butter ; sprinkle about 1 tablespoonful of flour ; add 
the stock the brains were* stewed in, and some button 
mushrooms, pepper, and salt ; simmer till the onions 
and mushrooms are done. Put the brains or sweet- 
breads in to warm, and serve up. 



254. — Cervelles a la Sance. 

After the brains are cooked, simmer them for a few 
minutes in any sauce liked, and serve them in the 
sauce. 



104 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

255. — Beignets de Cervelles. 

After the brains are cooked, cut them into pieces, 
dip them in batter, and fry them in boiling fat. Serve 
them dry, with fried parsley, or with any sauce liked. 

256. — Mixed Frittura. 

Brains, sweetbreads, and calves' feet, calf's head, 
artichokes, all previously cooked. Divide into pieces 
of the same size ; egg and bread-crumb them, or flour 
them; fry them in butter. Add a little chopped 
parsley and lemon-juice to the butter, and serve alto- 
gether. 

N.B. — Remember that calves' feet, after they are 
cooked in the same manher brains are cooked, can 
be boned and dressed with any sauce liked, or fried 
either in batter, or egged and bread-crumbed. Calves' 
feet, if properly cooked, make an excellent and cheap 
dish. 

257. — To prepare Mutton Tongues. 

Soak them for 1 J to 2 hours in cold water ; then 
put them in boiling water, and leave them to soak 
until the skin can be quite easily removed. Split 
them in halves lengthways, and stew them in stock, 
with a few herbs and vegetables; then serve them with 
any sauce liked, taking care to finish cooking the 
tongues for ten minutes in the sauce with which they 
are to be served. 



MEATS AND SIMM 106 

258. — Mutton Tongues fo (Jaies. 

After the tongues are cooked, have ready some 
chopped herbs, mushrooms, and a little larding fat, 
pepper, salt, and spice. Toss this in a little butter, and 
let it get cold. Cover each half tongue with this 
mixture; wrap each up in an oiled paper; cook them 
slowly before the fire, or in the oven ; bftste them with 
oil. Serve in the papers. 

259. — Mutton Tongues "a la Purie." 

After the tongues are cooked, serve them on a 
puree of any vegetable liked. 

260. — Langue de Boeuf BraisSe. 

Put the tongue to soak in warm water, till it is 
quite free from blood, then put it to soak in cold; 
trim it and lard it. Put it now in a saucepan, with 
onions, carrots, thyme, parsley, clove, pepper and 
salt, and a couple of slices of larding pork and 
some stock. Simmer very gently for 4 or 5 hours. 
When cooked, skin it carefully; divide it in half 
lengthways. Dish it up with a piquante or tomato 
sauce over. 

261. — Langue de Boeuf au Gratin. 

The remains of a cold fresh tongue. Cut it in slices. 
Chop up fine some parsley, tarragon, shallot, capers, 



106 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

and anchovies; soak some crumb of bread in gravy ; 
add to it the chopped herbs, etc., and pound it all 
together in a mortar with a little butter. When quite 
smooth, lay part of this paste on a baking-dish; place 
the slices of tongue upon it, then place the rest of the 
paste on the tongue. Melt a little butter, and pour it 
on the top, then a little gravy. Sprinkle a few rasp- 
ings over at the last, and bake in a slow oven about 
15 minutes, 

262. — Ox Tail. 

Cook it in your pot au feu, if you are having a pot 
au feu made ; if not, boil it in stock or water with 
plenty of vegetables. Cut it into nice pieces; egg 
and bread-crumb each piece, and broil them before the 
fire, or fry them in hot fat ; serve them on a pur6e of 
vegetables, or with a piquante, tomato, or Italian 
sauce. 

263.— Liver " \ la MSnagere." 

Cut some liver into thin slices; toss them up in 
some butter, with pepper, salt, a bay leaf. Take out 
the liver and keep it hot. Put into the same butter 
some chopped onions ; let them brown ; sprinkle over 
with flour, and add some stock. Boil it up a couple 
of minutes ; put back the liver, and simmer it until 
it is cooked ; stir in some yolks of eggs and some 
lemon-juice, and serve all together. 



MEATS AND BIBDS. 107 

264.— Liver " a l'ltalienne." 

Cut some veal liver in tolerably thick slices. Put 
in a deep baking-dish or jar some oil, white wine, 
chopped parsley, chopped mushroom, chopped shallot, 
pepper, salt, and small pieces of bacon ; lay some of 
the liver over this, then some of the oil, wine, and 
chopped herbs and bacon, and more liver; then a 
few slices of fat bacon on the top. Cook this in a 
slow oven. Take the liver out. Continue cooking the 
sauce some time longer ; skim it and thicken it, and 
serve with the liver, or serve the liver with an Italian 
sauce. 

265. — Stewed Sheep's Kidneys. 

Skin the kidneys carefully; then cut them in 
halves or slices, as preferred. Melt 1 ounce of nice 
dripping or butter in a stewpan; add some chopped 
onion, chopped parsley. Stew for a few minutes, and 
stir all the time. Now add a little flour, some stock, 
gravy, or water, a wine-glassful of ketchup, the same 
quantity of wine, salt, and pepper. Stew very gently 
for an hour with the lid on. Serve with fried sippets. 
Liver or beef kidney prepared in this manner ia 
good. 

266.— Liver Stuffing, for Birds. 

• 

Chop half a pound of fat liver, 2 shallots, 2 ounces 
of fat ham, with a little thyme, nutmeg, pepper, and 



108 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

salt; toss it in a little butter until nearly cooked. 
Pound it in a mortar, and stuff a pheasant with it. 

267. — Proven^ale Stuffing, for Birds. 

Chop and parboil some large onions ; drain them 
in a sieve ; put them into a stewpan, with 4 ounces of 
butter, some bread-crumbs soaked in milk, chopped 
parsley, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a few 
yolks of eggs; stir the whole over the fire until it 
forms a paste. Stuff your, bird, and roast it. Serve 
with a tomato sauce. 

268.— Fowl " a la Marengo." 

Cut up a fowl as for a fricassee ; fry the pieces in 
oil, with pepper, salt, chopped mushrooms and herbs. 
When cooked, dress them on the dish with an Italian 
sauce round. Fry some eggs and sippets in the same 
oil the fowl was fried in, and serve round the fowl. 

N.B. — Those who object to oil can use fresh butter. 

Another way. — After the fowl is cut up as for a 
fricassee, put it in a stewpan, with 2 ounces of butter, 
a small quantity of gravy, chopped ham, sliced onion, 
pepper, and salt. Stew until nicely cooked. Add a 
squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. 

269. — Spanish Chicken. 

Cut a chicken into fillets and nice joints. Take 
a Spanish onion, cut it up very small; put it 



MEATS AND BIBBS. 109 

in a stewpan, with 2 ounces of butter and a little 
pepper and salt; let it stew gently for about an 
hour, or until it is a complete pulp. Put in the 
chicken and stew half an hour. Before dishing up 
add a squeeze of lemon-juice, 

270. — Chicken "a la Champenoise." 

Take a slice of ham, more fat than lean ; put it 
in a saucepan over the fire and nearly cook it. Take 
it out and chop it into small pieces ; cut up also a 
carrot and a few mushrooms. Put them all together 
in the same saucepan, add some butter, and sprinkle 
over with flour; then add a little white wine and 
some good gravy. Stew this together, then skim it 
carefully. Now put in this some joints and fillets 
of roasted chicken, a few gherkins previously scalded, 
some chopped parsley, and some chopped anchovies 
(be sure to soak the anchovies in warm water first). 
Toss all this together without letting it boil, add some 
lemon-juice at the last, and serve. 

271.— Fowl " a la Verez." 

Cut up a chicken as for a fricassee ; fry it in butter, 
then add slices of Spanish onions and slices of tomato ; 
continue cooking all together till done. Dish up with 
the onion and tomato in the centre. There must be 
more tomato than onion. Partridges and pheasants 
are good dressed in this manner. 



110 WHOLESOME CO OKEH T. 



272. — Poule au Biz. 

Truss a fowl for boiling. Put it in a saucepan, with 
half an onion chopped, 1 turnip and 1 carrot, also 
chopped, a bunch of herbs ; cover it with milk or milk 
and water; add pepper and salt. Let it simmer till 
cooked. When it is about half cooked, take out some 
of the stock ; put it in another saucepan, and simmer 
some rice in it. When both chicken and rice are 
cooked, strain the chicken sauce: then- take as much 
as you think you will require for sauce, and thicken it 
with 1 or 2 yolks of eggs, and add a little cream. Use 
a very small quantity of this sauce to toss the rice in, 
and add a pinch of cheese to it, or if cheese is disliked, 
a little nutmeg. Now serve the chicken and sauce up, 
and hand the rice in a separate dish. In France the 
cooks usually cook chicken and rice together, and 
serve both in the same dish. It is less troublesome to 
cook, equally good, but makes a very untidy looking 
dish. 

273.— Fried Chicken. 

Cut a roasted chicken into fillets and small joints ; 
rub them with vinegar; sprinkle pepper, salt, and 
chopped herbs over them. Leave them for an hour ; 
then wipe them, dip in frying batter, fry in boiling fat. 
Serve with fried parsley or any sauce liked. 

N.B. — Remains of cold boiled chickens can be used 



MEATS AND BIBBS. Ill 

for this ; if they have any remains of sauce over them 
they need not be rubbed with vinegar, etc. 

274.— Duck Bouillet. 

Wrap carefully round a duck some slices of fresh 
larding pork ; sprinkle with pepper and salt ; put it 
in a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock and light 
wine ; add a few slices of lemon. Let it simmer gently 
until cooked, then skim and strain the sauce ; thicken 
and serve. 

275. — Stewed Buck and Olives. 

Rub the duck with lemon-juice ; fry it in some 
butter or good dripping for a few minutes. Sprinkle 
:some flour over ; then add sufficient gravy or stock to 
cover it, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 carrot cut in four, 
1 or 2 onions, 2 cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of 
thyme, pepper and salt. Stew for an hour ; then take 
out the duck, strain the gravy, and remove all the fat. 
Put the gravy back on the fire, and some stoned and 
scalded olives ; boil for 5 to 10 minutes, and dish up 
with the duck. 

276.— Salmis of Wild Buck. 

Wrap a wild duck in a buttered paper, and half 
roast it; then carve it into joints, and put it into 
-a saucepan with the gravy which came from it in 



112 WBOLESOME CO OKER T. 

roasting. In another saucepan put the trimmings of 
the duck, a tumbler of red wine, half a shallot, a clove r 
some pepper and salt ; boil it down till there is only- 
half the original quantity. Strain the sauce ; stir into 
it some flour and butter to thicken, a little glaze, a 
tablespoonful of oil, and the juice of one lemon. Add 
this to the duck. Toss up together to finish cooking 
the duck, and serve with fried sippets. 

N.B. — Of course, a salmis can be made with the 
remains of roast wild duck ; but in that case only toss 
them in the sauce sufficiently long to warm them 
through. 

277. — Stewed Suck and Ttlrnips. 

Cut some turnips into pretty shaped balls; tosa 
them up in butter, and sprinkle very lightly with 
sugar. Take them out ; then fry your duck for a few 
minutes in the same butter. Then in another sauce- 
pan put a small lump of butter ; thicken with a little 
flour; add some parsley, onion, bay-leaf, some good 
gravy, a little white wine. Put the duck in this, to 
stew very gently. When half cooked, add the turnips, 
and finish cooking together very slowly. Skim the fat 
off carefully, and serve up hot. 

• 

278. — Goose or Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts. 

Pound the goose or turkey liver up with a very 
little finely chopped bacon, some herbs, salt, and nut- 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 113 

meg. Have some chestnuts cooked and carefully- 
peeled; toss them over the fire in a little butter or 
gravy, with the above liver, etc. Stuff the bird 
thoroughly with it. Roast it carefully; serve it up 
with its own gravy, to which add a squeeze of lemon. 

279. — Stewed Pigeons. 

Stuff the pigeons with the following: —bread-crumbs 
soaked in milk, the yolk of an egg, pepper, salt, 
chopped parsley, shallot, and mushroom. Put the 
pigeons in a stewpan, with a lump of butter or drip- 
ping, a slice of bacon ; fry them for a few minutes, 
then add some gravy or good stock and a little wine ; 
cover them up and stew very gently till done. Strain 
the gravy, and serve. 

280. — Pigeons and Prawns "en Ragout de Crevettes." 

When your pigeons are prepared, cut them in half; 
put them in a stewpan, with a glass of light white 
wine, a glass of stock, parsley, shallot, pepper, salt, 
and a couple of cloves ; simmer them till done. Strain 
the gravy. Now in another saucepan put a lump of 
butter, some button mushrooms, and some skinned 
prawns ; add a little flour, and the gravy the pigeons 
were stewed in. Simmer this for about half an hour, 
then thicken it with some cream and a few yolks 
of eggs ; add some finely chopped parsley and grated 



114 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

nutmeg. Dish up the pigeons with the mushrooms 
and prawns and gravy in the centre. 

281. — Stewed Larks. 

Roast 2 dozen larks slightly, with a piece of bacon 
fat over each lark. Then remove the meat off 6 of 
them, and pound it in a mortar ; add a few savoury 
herbs and bread soaked in milk, pepper and salt. 
Stuff the other 18 larks with this mixture, and put 
them in a stewpan with the gravy which came from 
the roasting of the larks. Sprinkle with a little flour, 
pepper, and salt. Stew very gently, and serve on fried 
pieces of bread. Pour the sauce over. 

282.— Game or Fowl Stew. 

Remains of cold game or fowl, 1 onion sliced, 1 
pickled walnut, 1 pounded anchovy, 2 glasses of gravy 
or stock, 2 slices of lemon, pepper, salt. Stir some 
flour into 1 ounce of butter, toss the onion, then add 
in all the other ingredients. Stew for a quarter of an 
hour, and serve with fried sippets. 

283.— Capon "a la Regence." 

Toss a capon in a little butter, then lard with a 
very fine larding needle. Place it in a saucepan, with 
some mushrooms, carrots, a turnip, an onion, and some 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 115 

herbs, pepper and salt ; add a very little stock and a 
tumbler of Madeira ; simmer it till cooked. Prepare 
a ragout a la financikre, and serve the capon 
upon it. 

284. — Boast Bird. 

Poultry or game is improved if stuffed with a 
.stuffing made of a little bread soaked in milk, 1 
ounce of butter, pepper, salt, and mushrooms. Cook 
the stuffing for a few minutes before putting it in 
the bird. Eoast the bird with a toast under ; baste it 
frequently, and serve it on the toast. 

285. — Partridges " a la Parisienne." 

Toss the partridges in butter on a slow fire ; before 
they begin to brown add a lump of glaze, some good 
stock, a glass of white w.ine. Sprinkle with a little 
flour, pepper, and salt. Simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour, by which time the partridges ought to be cooked. 
Continue simmering the sauce some time longer; stir 
in at the last a lump of butter, pass through a sieve, 
and serve over the partridges. 

286.— Partridges " a l'Estouffade." 

Lard the partridges; put them in a saucepan, with 
some onion, carrots, a couple of slices of larding pork, 
a, bunch of herbs, stock and white wine, pe^er aa& 



116 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

salt; cover the saucepan very tightly, and simmer 
very gently until the birds are cooked. Cook the 
sauce a little longer; skim it very carefully, pass 
through a sieve, and serve over the partridges. This 
dish is good if done in a slow oven in a covered jar. 

287. — Partridges "& la Portugaise." 

Cut your partridges into joints; fry them in oil, 
with a clove of garlic and a Spanish onion ; to this 
add a small quantity of very thick tomato sauce. 
Simmer the whole together, and serve with fried 
sippets and, if liked, a few stoned olives. 

288. — Salmis of Partridges. 

Blend some flour and butter together in a saucepan 
— do not let it become brown — add some stock or 
gravy, an equal quantity of red wine, 1 shallot, bunch of 
herbs, pepper, and salt ; simmer this for half an hour ; 
strain it. Have your cooked partridges cut into joints 
and fillets ; simmer them in this sauce without allow- 
ing them to boil ; add juice of lemon. Dish up the 
partridges on fried sippets with the sauce over. 

N.B. — All game is good dressed in this manner. 

289.— Pheasant " en SoufflS." 

Remove the skin and bones from a roasted 
pheasant ; pound the meat (and livers, if the bird was- 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 1L7 

not a high one) in a mortar. Put "the pounded meat 
in a saucepan with some rich stock or gravy ; let it 
become quite hot, but do not let it boil ; then pass it 
through a" A hair sieve. Break the pheasant bones up 
small, and stew them down in a small quantity of 
gravy. Strain the gravy, add a thickening of flour and 
butter, stir in a small lump of glaze. Continue sim- 
mering the sauce till it is nearly thick, then stir in a 
lump of butter, some grated nutmeg, then the pheasant 
pur^e; now beat in 4 yolks of eggs; lastly, beat in 
(adding small quantities at a time) 2 whites of eggs 
stiffly whisked. Pour the mixture in a souffle case or 
cake tin, bake in the oven until it rises : will take 
about 20 minutes. Must be eaten at once ; if it >vaits 
at all, it is spoilt. Eemains of chickens or partridges 
make excellent souffles. 

290. — Boast Quails. 

Wrap each quail in a vine leaf, wrap it again in a 
very thin layer of fat bacon ; roast them before the 
lire. They ought not to take more than 20 minutes. 

291. — Roast Hare. 

When the hare is prepared for roasting, lard it with 
a fine needle. Boil a little vinegar with a little water, 
sliced onion, thyme, bay leaf, parsley, pepper, salt, and 
some butter. When it is cold, pour it over the hare and 



118 WHOLESOME COOKEBY. 

leave it for 24 hours ; then wipe the hare and roast it 
before the fire. Baste it well with the liquor it has 
been soaking in. Serve with its gravy thickened. 

N.B. — The above recipe is for a tolerably fresh- 
killed hare. 

N.B. — Some people treat* the hind part of a hare in 
this manner, and reserve the front part for a " civet." 

292.—" Civet " of Hare. 

Cut the hare into pieces;. toss it in a few ounces of 
butter, with some small pieces of slightly salted bacon ; 
when a little coloured, add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
and a couple of tumblers of light red wine. Add 
pepper, spices, bunch of herbs, bay leaf, a clove, and an 
Qnion. Let this simmer very slowly by the side of 
the fire for 5 hours (can be done in a jar in the oven). 
Have some small onions; toss them in butter till 
slightly brown, moisten with stock, add a pinch of 
sugar, and cook them slowly. When the hare is nearly 
cooked, take out the herbs and onion, and add a few 
mushrooms ; then, if it wants salt, add some. Finish 
cooking. Dish up the hare with the sauce, and serve 
round the small onions, the mushrooms, and some fried 
sippets. 

293.— Broiled Babbit. 

Cut the rabbit into joints ; wrap each joint in a 
buttered paper, and broil it in a Dutch oven before 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 119 

v the fire. When cooked, take the papers off, and dish 
up the rabbit with maitre d'h6tel or anchovy butter, 
spread on each joint. 

294.— Babbits " Saut&." 

Cut the rabbit up into neat fillets and joints. Cut 
some small pieces of raw ham ; toss these together in 
butter over a hot fire, with some chopped onion (clove 
of garlic), parsley, and thyme; then sprinkle them 
over with flour. Add some stock, a little white wine. 
Simmer together till the rabbit is cooked. Strain the 
sauce; put it back on the fire; add some chopped 
mushrooms ; cook a few minutes longer, and serve 
over the rabbit. 

295. — Babbits " en Papillote." 

Chop up some parsley, mushrooms, shallot, clove of 
garlic, a little bacon, with pepper and salt. Mix this 
in a little gravy on the fire to form a paste. Cut a 
rabbit into neat fillets and joints. Cover each piece 
with the above paste ; then wrap a thin slice of fat 
bacon, and fix each piece neatly in an oiled paper. 
Cook them slowly before the fire Or in the oven, and 
serve in the papers. 



>— )> 



296.— Ham " au Vin de Madere. 

Soak a ham for 24 hours. Tie it up in a nice cloth 
and parboil it, or steam it in a Warren's cooking pot 



120 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

till half cooked; then let it drain. Put in a large 
saucepan a bottle of Madeira wine ; put in the ham, 
and finish cooking it in this. Serve with a macedoine 
of vegetables or a pur^e of spinach or sorrel. 

297 —Pore & la Robert. 

Have a piece of fresh pork ; sprinkle it over with 
salt, and leave it for two days; then roast it and 
serve it with a sauce Robert. 

298. — Salpicon. 

Cut up some ham, some onion, and some mush- 
rooms, and a set of cooked brains or a sweetbread. 
Toss the onions and ham together in some butter, 
then add the mushrooms and brains ; add a little 
stock or gravy. Simmer together ; then thicken the 
sauce with yolks of eggs, and season with pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice. 

299. — Croustades. 

Cut a sandwich loaf into slices about 2 inches 
thick ; scoop out the inside of each slice so as to make 
an empty case ; fry these cases in boiling fat, and fill 
them with any savoury mixture liked. Serve hot. 

300. — Savoury Bice Mould. 

Clean and wash 6 ounces of rice. Put it in a stew- 
pan with cold water ; boil it 1 minute, then take it 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 121 

out and strain off the water. Add stock or milk, and 
stew gently until the rice will break easily with a 
spoon. Work it up with a spoonful of white sauce, 
2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, pepper, salt, and a 
beaten egg. The rice must be firm and well blended. 
Line a mould (which has an inner space) and bake it. 
Turn out the rice, and fill the inner vacant space with 
a savoury mince dressed with white sauce ; decorate 
with slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve. Remains of 
cold fish warmed in any sauce is a good substitute for 
the mince. The stock or milk the rice was cooked 
in to be used for soups, or for boiling white meats in 
first, and then finished as soup. 

301. — Oyster Kromeskys. 

Cut some uncooked fat bacon into very thin slices ; 
place one or two oysters on each ; sprinkle with 
pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Cook in a Dutch oven 
before the fire, and serve on toast. 

302. — Aspic or Meat Jelly. 

Boil [a calf s foot in 2 quarts of a well-flavoured, 
clear pot au feu soup ; strain it and let it become 
cold ; when set, clear off the fat. Now slightly warm 
the greater part of it again, and pour a little in a 
mould. When it is set, lay some pieces of hard-boiled 
egg, cut gherkins, little pieces of nicely dressed chicken 



122 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

or sweetbreads. Place on this a little of the cold aspic, 
so as to keep all 'the pieces in their places. Now pour 
on this some of the slightly warmed aspic ; let it set, 
then place some more chicken, egg, gherkin, cold aspic, 
etc., and continue until the mould is full. Place it in 
a cold place, and turn out when quite set. In placing 
the garnish inside the mould, be careful that no pieces 
touch the side of the mould, or the jelly will break at 
that point when turned out. 

N.B. — A simpler way is to pour the meat jelly 
into a border mould, and when set and turned out, fill 
the vacant space with a mayonnaise of fish, meat, or 
vegetables. 

303. — Ragout a la Financiere. 

Cut a slice of raw ham in very small pieces ; put 
it in a stewpan, with a bunch of herbs, a mushroom, 
glass of white wine, glass of stock, and some pepper. 
Boil this together till it is reduced to half its ori- 
ginal quantity; pass through a sieve. In another 
saucepan blend some flour and butter; add a little 
stock; cook it till reduced to half its original 
quantity. Now add the two sauces together ; then 
warm in this sauce some foie gras, cooked cocks" 
combs, truffles, mushrooms, and fonds d'artichauds. 
Serve alone, or as a garnish to fricasseed fowls, wild 
pheasants, etc. The " financi&re a la getee," which is 
preserved in bottles, can be used in this sauce, if cocks* 
combs, truffles, etc., are not to be had easily ; or the 



MEATS AND BIRDS. 123 

bottles of cocks'-combs and a tin of mushrooms, to- 
gether with little pieces of chicken, make a good 
" financi&re." Bottled truffles are not worth buying ; 
they are expensive, and have little or no flavour. 

304. — Eissoles. 

Mince up any remains of cold meat ; stew them up 
in thickened gravy, with a few herbs, pepper, and 
salt (onion if liked). Let it stand till cold. Then 
make it up into small balls — touch them as little as 
possible, and with the palms of the hands instead of 
the fingers — then cover them with fine bread-crumbs* 
Beat a yolk of egg up well ; dip in the balls, and cover 
them again with fine bread-crumbs. Fry a pale yellow, 
and serve with fried parsley or gravy. 

305. — Westphalian Eissoles. 

Mince a quarter of a pound of lean ham ; pound 
it up with 1 pound of mashed potatoes, some butter, 
pepper, salt, and two beaten eggs. Divide the mixture 
into rolls, and fiy them in boiling fat. Serve with 
gravy. 

306. — Pastry Eissoles. 

Make a light paste; roll it out thin, cut it into 
squares. On each square place a small piece of savoury 
mince; roll up each square, and fry in boiling fat. 
Dish up on a napkin. 



124 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

307.— Fried Oysters. 

Scald and beard the oysters ; dip each separately 
in batter; drop them into boiling fat and fiy crisp; 
drain them, and dish them up with fried parsley. 
They must be quite di^y and crisp. 

308. — Kromeskys. 

Mince some cold meats of any sort, and mushrooms, 
if you have them. Fry some onion slightly in butter, 
then toss in the mince for a couple of minutes ; next 
moisten with gravy or stock ; season with pepper and 
salt and minced parsley. Stew for a few minutes until 
it is in a tolerable paste ; put it on one side to get cool. 
Cut up some slices of cooked bacon (rather fat) — the 
slices must be of the thinnest — place some of the 
savoury meat on each slice, roll them up neatly, and 
keep them in a cool place ; then dip them in batter 
and fry them. 



( 125 ) 



SWEETS. 

309. — Cabinet Pudding. 

Spread the inside of a mould with butter ; orna- 
ment the bottom and sides with pieces of preserved 
fruits. FiU the mould with alternate slices of sponge 
cake, ratafias, and maccaroons, and some more pieces- 
of dried fruits, or small lumps of guava jelly or apri- 
cot marmalade. Make a custard with 7 eggs, 1 pint 
of milk, 6 ounces of sugar, and a little vanilla or 
grated lemon-peel ; add 1 wine-glassful of brandy. Let 
it get cold, and pour it by degrees into the mould so 
as to penetrate every corner; then cover the mould 
and steam it an hour. Serve cold with custard over 
it, into which mix another wine-glassful of brandy. 

310.— Winter Pudding. 

1 pint of very fine bread-crumbs, 1 quart of milk r 
1 teacupful of sugar, 4 yolks of eggs well beaten, grated 
rind of 1 lemon, a lump of butter about the size of an 
egg. Mix all this well together in a dish, and bake it 
till just set (if cooked too much it will be watery). 



126 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

Whip up 4 whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; then whisk 
in a teacupful of castor sugar, mixed with the juice of 
1 lemon. Now turn out the pudding ; spread over it 
a layer of jam or jelly, pour over the whisked whites, 
and bake slightly. Serve cold with cream. 

311. — Swiss Apples. 

Peel and cut the apples in quarters ; fry them in 
butter a pale gold colour; put them to drain (on a 
piece of blotting-paper is best). Heap them up on a 
dish, and keep them warm. Now put in a saucepan 
1 pint of claret, a little cinnamon ; sweeten with about 
half a pound of brown sugar; add the grated rind 
of 1 lemon and the juice of half a lemon. Make the 
sauce quite hot, but do not let it boil. Pour it over 
the apples. 

312. — Banana Fritters. 

Cut some bananas in half; sprinkle them with castor 
sugar ; put them to soak in a little rum. Have some 
fiying batter ; dip each piece in ; fry in boiling fat, and 
serve up on a napkin. 

N.B. — Slices of apple, orange, pineapple, etc., are 
good if cooked in this manner. 

313.— Pain Perdu. 

Cut fiome bread into round slices of a medium 
thickness. Boil some milk with sugar, and vanilla, 



SWEETS. 127 

and a pinch of salt. Dip each piece of bread in the 
milk ; then dip them into a well-beaten yolk of egg. 
Now fry each piece in butter, and serve hot with 
castor sugar over them. 

314. — Torrijas (Spanish). 

Cut some bread in round slices of a medium thick- 
ness. Beat the yolk of an egg in milk ; sweeten it. 
Dip each piece of bread in the milk, , then in some 
liqueur, such as curagoa or maraschino, etc. Let the 
pieces drain ; then fry them, sprinkle some grated 
nutmeg and sugar over them, and serve hot. 

315. — Maraschino Toast. 

Gut some bread in slices about the size of a slice 
of lemon; fry them a nice gold colour. Melt some 
jam (either cherry, or apricot, or plum) with a small 
quantity of water and maraschino. Simmer it for a 
few minutes, and pour it over your fried bread. Serve 
hot. 

316.— Puffs. 

1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 egg, half a pint of milk, 
a little grated lemon-peel. Mix the flour and milk to 
a smooth batter ; add the egg, well beaten, and the 
grated lemon-peel; half fill some buttered cups or 
small moulds ; bake half an hour ; turn out, and serve 
with sifted sugar over them. 



128 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



317. — Stewed Fears. 

Peel the pears and put them in a stewpan, with a 
little water, lemon-peel, and sugar (to every pound of 
pears a quarter of a-pound of sugar) ; if liked coloured, 
a few drops of cochineal. Simmer very gently till the 
pears are cooked. Take them out and continue sim- 
mering the syrup until it is thick. 



318.— Fig Mould. 

Half a pound of dried figs, a small piece of lemon- 
peel, 2 ounces of white sugar. Cover them with half 
a pint of claret, or claret and water, or water alone ; 
simmer them gently till quite soft and the liquor 
absorbed. Press it into a mould ; when cold, turn out 
and serve with whipped cream or custard. When the 
figs are stewed, they ought to form a thick paste. 
If they should be at all lumpy, pass them through 
a wire sieve. 

319. — Prune Mould, 

Made exactly like the fig mould. Of course, take 
out the stones after the prunes are cooked. Crack a 
few of the stones, and put some of the kernels in the 
mould with the prunes. 



SWEETS. 120 

320.— Plum-Pudding. 

1 pound of suet, 1 pound of bread-crumbs, 1 pound 
of raisins, 1 pound of currants, 1 pound of moist sugar, 
quarter of a pound of candied lemon-peel, 1 finely 
chopped apple, 8 well-beaten eggs, 1 grated nutmeg, 
1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, 2 wine-glasses of 
port or sherry or brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Mix well, and boil 5 hours, either in a covered tin or 
tied up in a cloth. 

N.B. — It is wise to mix all the above ingredients 
thoroughly well for 3 days before adding the eggs; 
then add the eggs and cook the pudding. Mixed in 
this manner, the suet gets quite absorbed. 

321. — Plain Plum-Pudding. 

4 ounces of currants, 4 ounces of suet, 4 ounces of 
flour, 4 ounces of raisins, half a pint of milk, 4 ounces 
of fine bread-crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle. Boil 
for 4 hours in a cloth or covered mould. 

322. — Mincemeat. 

2 pounds of currants (chop 1 pound finely), 2 
pounds of raisins stoned and chopped, three-quarters 
of a pound of mixed candied peels chopped ; 1 pound 
of apples peeled, cored, and chopped; 1J pound of 
fresh suet, the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, 

K 



130 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

1 Seville orange, 1J pound of moist sugar, half a 
grated nutmeg, half a teaspoonful of grated cinnamon, 
half a teaspoonful of ground ginger, 2 pounded cloves, 
1 pint of rum or brandy. Mix all together. Put it in 
a jar ; cover tightly with a well-fitting lid. It is wise 
to stir the mixture occasionally from the bottom. 
Keep at least a fortnight. When you use it, add a 
very little rum or brandy to what you are using. 

323. — French Pancakes. 

Take 2 eggs and weigh them ; then take the same 
weight of castor sugar, same weight of butter, and the 
same weight of flour. Beat the butter to a cream ; 
beat in the flour, and then the sugar ; add a quarter of 
a pint of milk and the eggs. Beat all well together, 
and bake in patty pans in a quick oven about 20 
minutes. Serve with lemons and castor sugar. 

324. — Ravensdale Pudding. 

1 pint of cream, peel of 1 lemon, sugar to taste. 
Boil all together, and take out the peel. Let the cream 
stand until nearly cold, then mix with it the well- 
beaten yolks of 8, eggs. Put the mixture in a mould ; 
steam it half an hour. Serve cold, with some melted 
currant-jelly over. 

Half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk can 
be used instead of 1 pint of cream. 



SWEETS. 131 

325. — Venus Custard. 

Take a quart mould ; butter it well, and ornament 
it with candied peels or pieces of glacis fruits. Make 
a custard with 12 yolks and 6 whites of eggs, 1 pint 
of cream, and some loaf sugar ; put it in the mould. 
Dissolve 1 ounce of gelatine in sufficient milk to fill 
up the mould. When nearly cold, stir in a glass of 
brandy or curacjoa. Serve cold, with a custard round. 
You might save some of the above custard without 
gelatine for serving round it. 

326. — Caramel Custard. 

To prepare the caramel, put 5 ounces of loaf sugar, 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of water, in a warm mould. 
Melt it over the fire until the sugar and water form a 
golden-coloured thick syrup ; take it off the fire, and 
turn your mould round and round until the caramel 
has gradually worked itself over the whole inside of 
the mould and forms a casing. Dip the outside of the 
mould in cold water : this has the effect of making 
the sugar set. Now mix 1 pint of boiling milk to 6 
well-beaten eggs, add sugar and vanilla to taste ; then 
pour it cold into the mould, and steam it for 20 
minutes. Let it get cold, and serve turned out. 

327.— Creme Brulfe (Cold). 

Boil 1 pint of cream for 1 minute ; pour it on the 
yolks of 4? eggs well beaten. Put it on the fire, and 



182 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

let it gradually come almost to the boil ; then put it in 
the dish in which it is to be served. Let it get cold. 
Strew over the top a thick layer of castor sugar ; put 
it in a slow oven for 10 minutes ; then brown it with a 
hot salamander, and serve it cold. 



328. — Creme Brulee (Hot). 

Beat up 5 yolks of eggs. Stir them over the fire, 
with a good pinch of flour ; gradually mix in half a 
pint of milk, some cinnamon, and candied lemon-peel ; 
add a, pounded maccaroon. Stir all the time, so that the 
mixture does not stick to the bottom of the saucepan, 
and be careful it does not boil. Now put the dish in 
which the sweet is to be served on the side of the fire, 
with some castor sugar and enough water to melt the 
sugar ; when the sugar has coloured, stir the custard 
into it and serve at once. 



329. — Bavaroise. 

1 pint of double cream, 1 glass of rum or curacjoa 
or maraschino, three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine 
dissolved, 6 ounces of sugar. Whip the cream to a 
stiff froth ; then mix the other ingredients in quickly 
and thoroughly. Pour into a mould, and serve when 
set. In warm weather it may be wise to embed the 
mould in ice. 



SWEETS. 133 



330. — Genoa Cream. 

Half a pint of milk, 2 ounces of maccaroons, half 
an ounce of gelatine, half a wine-glassful of brandy, a 
little grated orange-peel, 3 ounces of sugar, 4? yolks 
of eggs, quarter of a pint of whipped cream, a few 
chopped candied fruits. Soak the gelatine in a little 
of the milk. Boil the rest, and add to it the 4 yolks of 
eggs, maccaroons, sugar, and orange-peel. Stir it on 
the side of the fire until it begins to thicken ; take it 
off the fire ; add the brandy and then the soaked gela- 
tine. Strain it through a hair sieve, and when nearly 
cold add the whipped cream and candied fruits. Put 
in a mould, ready to turn out when required. 



331. — Orange Cream. 

1 ounce of gelatine, quarter of a pound of loaf 
sugar, 1 lemon, 7 oranges, half a pint of cream. Squeeze 
and strain the juice of the lemon and orange ; put it 
in a saucepan, with the gelatine and sufficient water 
to make the whole quantity up to 1 pint ; rub the 
sugar over the lemon and orange peels, and add it to 
the juice. Boil up ten minutes, strain it, and when 
nearly cold whisk it up with the cream, and turn it 
into a mould to set, ready for turning out. 

This recipe can be used for any fruit juice in place 
of orange. 



134 WHOLESOME COOKERY, 

332. — Apricot Cream. 

1 pint of cream, quarter of a pound of castor sugar, 
3 parts of a pot of apricot jam. Whip the cream to 
a very stiff froth ; gradually whisk in the jam and 
sugar, and half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Must be 
done very quickly. Put it in a mould and turn out 
when stiff. Is very good without the gelatine and 
served in glasses. 

333. — Tea Cream. 

Simmer a pint of cream till it is partly reduced 
in quantity; add 1 teacupful of strongly made tea, and 
sugar to taste ; stir in gradually three yolks of eggs. 
Pass it through a hair sieve ; stir it again ; put it in a 
mould and steam it for 20 minutes. 

334. — Coffee Cream. 

Haifa pint of cream, quarter of a pint of milk, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of strong coffee, sugar to taste, 4 yolks of 
eggs. Put the coffee, eggs, and sugar in a jug ; place the 
jug in boiling water, and stir it till thick ; let it stand 
till cold. Whisk it up with the cream, and serve. (If 
wanted to turn out of a mould, a quarter of an ounce 
of dissolved gelatine must be whisked in with the 
cream. Must be done quickly.) 

Another way. — 1 pint of cream, half a pint of milk. 



SWEETS. 135 

half a pint of strong coffee, 1 ounce of gelatine, 6 ounces 
of sugar. Soak the gelatine in a little of the milk ; 
boil the rest of the milk with the cream, coffee, and 
sugar, then pour it over the dissolved gelatine. Strain 
it, put it in a mould, and stir it until it is nearly cold. 

335. — Chocolate Cream. 

Half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, quarter of 
an ounce of gelatine, 2 ounces of chocolate, sugar to 
taste. Dissolve the chocolate in the milk, then boil it 
up with the cream ; dissolve the gelatine, and pour the 
boiling mixture over it ; strain it and stir it till nearly 
cold. Put it in a mould, and turn out when set. 

A 336.— Velvet Cream. 

Three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, half a pint 
of white wine, 1 pint of cream mixed with the juice 
of 1 lemon, and sugar to taste. Dissolve the gelatine 
in the wine, strain it into the cream. Put it into a 
mould. 

337. — Set Cream. 

Quarter of an ounce of gelatine, half a pint of cream, 
and half a pint of milk ; sugar to taste. Boil all together, 
sfcir it till nearly cold ; place some jam at the bottom 
of a dish, and pour the mixture over. Serve when 
set. 



136 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

338. — Baked Chocolate Custard. 

3 ounces of grated chocolate, 3 eggs well beaten, 1 
pint of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil the milk ; 
add the chocolate to it and boil 2 or 3 minutes, then 
pour it by degrees to the eggs. Pour into a pie-dish, 
and bake in a moderate oven about 15 to 20 minutes, 
or until just set at the top. Must be of the consis- 
tency of a thick boiled custard. If, when served, there 
is an appearance of water at the bottom of the dish, 
it is because the custard has been allowed to bake too 
fast and too much. This custard can be steamed and 
served in the same dish. 

339. — Boiled Chocolate Custard 

Is made like any ordinary boiled custard. You simply 
leave out all other flavouring, and add 2 ounces of 
grated chocolate to the milk when you boil it. 

340. — Boiled Coffee Custard 

Is made like any ordinary boiled custard. You simply 
add some strongly made coffee to the milk when 
you boil it, and you leave out all other flavouring. 

341. — Baked Coffee Custard. 

2J tablespoonfuls of sugar, 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 
pint of milk, 1 teacupful of strongest made coffee. 
Proceed as for the baked chocolate custard. 



SWEETS. 137 



342. — Mousse au Chocolat. 



Dissolve 2 ounces of chocolate in three-quarters of 
a breakfast-cupful of milk ; add three-quarters of an 
ounce of sugar. Boil it till thick, then let it stand till 
cold. Whip up 1 pint of cream, and gradually add the 
chocolate to it. Serve in glasses. 

343. — Mousse au Caf& 

Make a teacupful of strong coffee with 4 ounces of 
coffee at least. Boil it with 1 ounce of sugar ; gradually 
stir in 2 yolks of eggs ; let it get cold. Whip up 1 
pint of cream, and gradually add the coffee to it. 
Serve in glasses. 

344. — Creme it la Impfratrice. 

Make a custard with two teacupfuls of milk, 3 
eggs, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, and 1£ ounce of sugar. 
Simmer 2 ounces of rice in 1 pint of milk with 1 ounce 
of sugar. Must be simmered very slowly. When the 
milk is absorbed the rice is cooked and must be quite 
soft. When the custard is nearly cold, stir it in by 
degrees to the rice ; then stir in gradually a small pot 
of apricot marmalade. Beat all well together so as 
to avoid lumps. Add now half an ounce of dissolved 
gelatine. Whisk up stiffly 1 pint of cream ; add it by 
degrees to the above mixture. Pour into a mould, 
and turn out and serve when set. 



138 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

345. — Swiss Cream. 

Boil the rind of 1 lemon in 1 pint of cream ; sweeten 
to taste. When the cream is sufficiently flavoured 
with the lemon, strain it. Lay 4 ounces of maccaroons 
in a dish. When the cream is cold, add the juice of 1 
lemon to it, and pour it over the maccaroons. Let it 
stand for some hours before using it. It is an im- 
provement to add at the last moment some Devonshire 
or whipped cream. 

346. — Cream Snow. 

The grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, a couple of 
glasses of sherry ; sweeten it to taste. Whisk this 
up with 1 pint of cream. Line a perforated mould 
with muslin, pour in the mixture, and let it stand for 
some hours, then turn out and serve. 

347.— Syllabubs. 

Take the grated rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 3, 
1 pint of cream, one-third of a pint of sherry ; sugar 
to taste. Mix this well together; then whisk it up to 
a stiff froth, and serve in glasses. 

348.— Junket. 

1 pint of milk, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of brandy or 
Scotch whisky, 1 dessert-spoonful of prepared rennet 
(Crosse and BlackwelTs), whipped cream or Devon- 



'SWEETS. 13D 

shire cream, grated nutmeg or glacis cherries. Make 
the milk hot ; put it in a dish with brandy or whisky, 
sugar, and rennet. Stir it together, and cover it until 
it is set; then spread the cream over the top, and 
finally decorate with glacis cherries or grated nutmeg, 
and serve. 

349. — (Eufs aux Macarons. 

Pound 3 maccaroons with some castor sugar ; melt 
1 ounce of butter and add it to the maccaroons. Beat 
up 6 yolks of eggs and 3 whites separately ; then beat 
both whites and yolks up with the maccaroons as you 
would an omelet. Place the mixture in the dish in 
which it is to be served ; put the dish in a saucepan 
of warm water, and let it steam ; sprinkle some castor 
sugar over the top, and pass a hot salamander over. 
Serve hot or cold. 

350.— (Eufs a la Neige. 

Take 6 eggs ; beat the whites to a very stiff froths 
Now take a pint of milk ; sweeten and flavour it with 
vanilla. Put the milk in a saucepan ; when it comes- 
to a boil, drop in (by large tablespoonfiils) the white 
egg-froth. Turn each piece so as to cook it on every 
side (2 minutes will suffice). Kemove it out of the 
milk, and with the six yolks of eggs and milk make 
a boiled custard, which when cold, serve with the 
lumps of white froth on the top. 



140 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



351. — CEufs aux Pistaches. 



» Pound some pistachio kernels. Blend a little corn 
flour in cream ; put it on the fire, with the kernels, 
some grated lemon-peel; sugar to taste. Stir this 
together, then put it in the dish it is to be served in. 
Place this dish in a saucepan of hot water; add G 
eggs; stir with a wooden spoon till nearly set. 
Sprinkle some castor sugar over the top, pass the hot 
salamander over, and serve hot or cold. 

352.— Sweet Omelet. 

Beat the whites and yolks of eggs separately. 
With the yolks beat in some castor sugar and grated 
lemon-peel ; then beat whites and yolks together with 
-a very little milk. Melt some butter in a pan, and 
cook the omelet over a quick fire ; double it over, and 
-serve. 

353. — Omelet "a la Robespierre." 

Make a sweet omelet ; when it is dished, sprinkle 
over it some castor sugar. Pour some absinthe over, 
^nd set fire to it at table. 

354. — Omelet " aux Confitures." 

Make your omelet in the above manner. Melt 
some jam ; place it inside the omelet before doubling 
it over, and serve. 



SWEETS. 141 

355. — Omelet " au Ehum." 

Make a sweet omelet ; when it is dished, sprinkle 
over it some sifted sugar ; then pour over some rum. 
Set fire to it at table. 



356.— Omelet " Souffle." 

Mix and beat together 6 yolks of eggs, 4 J ounces 
of sugar ; flavour with vanilla. Beat the whites up ; 
then beat them lightly with the yolks. Butter a dish 
well; pour the mixture in it, sprinkle sifted sugar 
over, put it in the oven, and serve it as soon as it 
rises. Will take from 6 to 8 minutes. 



357. — Plain Bice Mould. 

Simmer 4 ounces of Carolina rice and 2 J ounces of 
sugar in 1 quart of milk, with a little lemon-peel. 
When all the milk is absorbed, press the mixture in a 
mould and turn out when cold. Must have a creamy 
appearance when eaten. Serve alone or with custard 
or stewed fruits. 

Another way.— Prepare the rice as above, then 
beat in a small piece of butter and 4 eggs ; put it in 
a well-buttered mould, in which you have sprinkled 
some castor sugar. Bake about 20 minutes to half 
an hour, turn it out, and sprinkle castor sugar over. 



142 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



358. — Caramel Bice Mould. 



Prepare the mould with caramel according to 
recipe 326. Take 4 ounces of Carolina rice ; put it 
in 1 quart of milk, and let it gradually swell till 
•cooked and the milk absorbed; then add a small 

lump of very fresh butter and stir in 4 eggs. Put this 

* 

in your mould; do not quite fill the mould. Steam 
it from 20 minutes to half an hour. Serve hot, or 
cold with a custard round. 



359.— Plain Cold Bice Pudding. 

1 ounce of Carolina rice, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 
a very small lump of butter, 1 pint of milk. Place all 
in a deep pie-dish and bake till quite set. Must be 
done very slowly. Serve cold. When the spoon is put 
in the dish it ought to come out with a cream upon it; 
if it does not, the pudding has not succeeded. 



360. — Caramel Semolina Mould. 
Prepared exactly like the Caramel rice (358). 

361.— Plain Souffl& 

3 yolks of eggs well beaten; 3 whites of eggs, also 
well beaten ; 2 ounces of potato flour (Groult's), 1 ounce 
of butter, 1£ ounce of castor sugar and a little finely 



SWEETS. 143 

chopped lemon-peel, quarter of a pint of milk. Put in 
a stewpan the potato flour, sugar, butter, milt, and 
lemon-peel; stir it well together until the flour is 
cooked. Let it cool, and then stir in quickly the yolks, 
and then the well-whisked whites of eggs. Butter a 
dish and bake 25 minutes. Serve at once ; if this dish 
waits even one minute, it will fail. 

362.— Coffee SoufflS. 

Made as above, but adding to the milk 1 teacupful 
of strong coffee, and leaving out the lemon-peel. 

363.— Chocolate SoufflS. 

Leave out the lemon-peel and about 1 \ ounce of 
the potato flour, and add 1 ounce of grated chocolate 
to the milk. 

364.— Vanilla Souffle. 

Leave out the lemon-peel and add essence of 
vanilla. 

365. — Beignets Souffles or French Fritters. 

1 breakfast-cupful of water, 4 ounces of flour, lh 
ounce of butter, 1£ ounce of loaf sugar, a little grated 
lemon-peel, 3 eggs. Put in a saucepan the water, 
sugar, butter, and grated lemon-peel ; when it boils, 
move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in 



144 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

the flour. Put it back on the fire and let it boil a few 
minutes, stirring all the time. It must be now quite a 
stiff paste, very nearly like a lump of dough. Put this 
lump in a large bason. When cool — not cold — put in 1 
(unbeaten) egg ; mix it well with the paste ; then add 
the second egg, and then the third. It takes about 4 
minutes to mix in thoroughly each egg. Let this paste 
stand two or three hours before using it. Now put in 
a deep stewpan some fat, clarified lard, or dripping ; 
when it boils completely, dip a teaspoon in it, and then 
take half a teaspoonful of the batter and drop it into 
the fat. Continue until you have used up all the batter. 
Each fritter will be cooked when it is a rich gold 
colour and swollen to the size of an apricot. The reason 
you dip the teaspoon in the boiling fat is to cause the 
batter to slip easily off the spoon. Serve the fritters 
on a d'oyley with castor sugar sprinkled over. 

366. — Canadian Pudding. 

Make a custard with half a pint of milk, 4 yolks 
of eggs, and a little sugar. Boil 2 tablespoonfuls of 
corn flour in 1 J pint of milk with a little sugar ; let 
it get cool. Then fill a deep dish with layers of jam, 
custard, and the corn flour mixture. Finally whisk 
the whites to a stiff* froth with some sifted sugar ; place 
it on the top of the layers and bake it till just set, and 
serve in the same dish. 

Another way. — Proceed as above, but use a thick 



SWEETS. 145 

coffee or chocolate custard instead of plain custard, and 
leave out the jam, 

367. — Almond Puddings. 

Boil half a pint of milk with 2 ounces of butter. 
Pour it over 6 ounces of bread-crumbs ; add 12 peeled 
and pounded Jordan almonds, sugar to taste, and 2 
well-beaten eggs. Bake it half an hour in buttered cups 
or little moulds. Serve hot. 

367a. — Almond Cream. 

Peel and pound 2| ounces of best almonds. Mix 
this with a pint of boiling cream ; add gradually 4 yolks 
of well-beaten eggs, a little sugar. Put this in a mould 
and steam till set ; turn out when cold. 

368. —Malvern Pudding. 

Line a bowl with slices of tolerably stale crumb of 
bread — the slices must be a quarter of an inch thick — 
then fill up the bowl with hot stewed fruit. Cover the 
top with more slices of crumb of bread ; put it on one 
side till next day. Turn it out and serve with cream 
or custard poured over it. 

369. — Marmalade Pudding. 

2 eggs (weigh them), same weight of bread-crumbs ; 
same of flour, of butter, of sugar ; 2 tables\JOQ\s&dXs> ^L 



146 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

orange marmalade. Beat the butter and sugar to- 
gether till they are quite creamy in appearance ; work 
in the eggs very lightly but thoroughly, then work in 
the bread-crumbs, and next' the marmalade. Place in 
a pretty mould, and steam it for three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve with the following sauce : — 1 tablespoon- 
ful of marmalade, 1 teacupful of sherry ; boil the two 
together, and serve over or round the pudding. 

N.B. — Every ingredient of this pudding must be 
thoroughly well mixed in. 

370. — Scotch Pudding. 

12 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 7 of chopped 
suet, 4 of moist sugar, 4 of orange marmalade, the rind 
of 1 lemon grated, 4 eggs, half a teacupful of milk. 
Mix well together; put it in a mould and steam 
3 hours. Serve hot. You can use jam in place of 
marmalade ; but if you do, you must omit the grated 
lemon-peel. 

371. — Semolina Pudding. 

4 ounces semolina, If pint of milk, 2^ ounces of 
sugar, 4 well-beaten eggs, some sultana raisins, candied 
citron or lemon peel, and some fresh lemon-peel. 
Boil the fresh lemon-peel in the milk; sprinkle the 
semolina in by degrees ; stir carefully so as to keep 
the mixture very smooth. Boil a few minutes, stirring 
all the time. Move it off the fire; put in the sugar 



SWEETS. U7 

and the 4 eggs. Have a buttered mould, decorated 
with raisins, candied peels. Pour in the mixture and 
steam it for half an hour. Serve hot with a wine or 
fruit sauce, or cold with custard. 

Fruit sauce is made by melting any fruit jelly you 
may have over the fire, with a very small proportion 
of water. 

372.— Buff Pudding. 

I pint of milk, 3 ounces of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, 6 ordinary-sized lumps of sugar, 1 pinch of 
salt. Mix the flour by degrees to the milk with the 
salt ; boil it till quite thick ; then take it off the fire, 
and stir in the butter, sugar, and some finely grated 
lemon-peel. Let it stand till cold; beat in 3 eggs. 
Have a dish lined with. paste; pour in the mixture; 
bake in a quick oven 20 minutes, and decorate 
with a few lumps of marmalade. Good hot, but better 
cold. 

373.— Crumb Pudding. 

II tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 1 pint of milk, 
3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 4 eggs, a little very finely 
chopped lemon-peel (or- candied peel, if preferred), a 
few sultana raisins or currants. Butter a pie-dish well, 
and strew in the raisins, etc. Beat the eggs, and mix 
them with the milk; add to it the bread-crumbs, sugar, 
lemon-peel. Pour it into a pie-dish, axvd. \ss3sa SX». 



148 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

Turn out and serve with sifted sugar over, or with 
malted red or black currant jelly. 

374. — De Grey Pudding. 

Beat half a pound of butter to a cream ; then beat 
in half a pound of sugar, then half a pound of flour, 
then 4 yolks of eggs, then some chopped candied 
fruits ; lastly, whisk 4 whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
and mix it up with the other ingredients. Have a 
well-buttered mould ; ornament it with candied fruits. 
Pour in the mixture and steam it for 3 hours. Serve 
hot, with a wine sauce. 

375. — Apple Charlotte. 

Cut some cooking apples in very thin slices. Place 
some very thin slices of crumb of bread at the bottom 
of a pie-dish, then a layer of the apples, a few lumps 
of butter ; sprinkle with sugar. Fill the pie-dish with 
alternate layers of apple, bread, butter, and sugar. 
Bake about an hour ; turn out of the dish, and serve 
hot or cold. 

376. — Open Apple Tart. 

Peel and core some apples ; cut them up ; put them 
in a saucepan, with a good-sized lump of butter, some 
finely chopped lemon-peel, and some sugar. Stew till 
very soft and smooth. Beat up 1 or 2 eggs ; mix with 



SWEETS. 149 

the above. Have a shallow dish lined with pastry; 
put in the apple mixture, and bake. Very good hot 
and cold. 

377. — Orange Jelly. 

Three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved 
in 1 pint of water. Rub half a pound of sugar on the 
rinds of 5 oranges and 1 lemon. Squeeze out the 
juice; boil it up with the sugar and water; strain 
it ; whisk it nearly cold, and put it in a mould to set. 

Another way. — The juice of 8 oranges, rinds a^nd 
juice of 2 lemons, rinds of 2 oranges. Grate the rinds 
of the lemons and oranges over half a pound of sugar. 
Put it into a bason ; squeeze over it the juice of the 
oranges and lemons ; be very careful to leave out the 
pips. Add 1 pint of water. Put this in a saucepan ; 
add 3 parts of a tumbler of sherry. Have whisked 
the whites of 4 eggs ; add it to the above mixture 
with the shells, then 1 ounce of dissolved gelatine. 
Stir it all together, and let it slowly boil. When it 
boils, leave it S minutes ; take it off the fire and let 
it stand another 3 minutes. Rinse a jelly bag in 
warm water, wring it out thoroughly; pour the. 
jelly in, and let it strain through into a mould. 

378.— Claret Jelly. 

1 bottle of claret, juice and rind of 1 lemon, 1 pot 
of red currant jelly, 1 wine-glassful of brandy, half 



160 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

a pound of loaf sugar, 1 ounce of gelatine. Boil to- 
gether for 5 minutes; strain them into a mould. 
Serve next day with whipped cream. Half this 
quantity makes a fair-sized sweet. 

379. — Apple Cheese. 

Peel and core the apples, and cut them inta 
quarters. Stew them till slightly reduQed ; add three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of apple, 
and a little powdered cinnamon. Boil for about 3 
hours; in fact, till the apples are boiled to a pulp. 
Put it in pots or moulds for use. Very good served 
as a sweet, with custard or whipped cream over. 
Half a teaspoonful of cinnamon to 5 pounds of fruit 
is sufficient. 

380. — Orange Salad. 

Peel the oranges, and remove the outside white 
skin; cut them into slices; remove the pips. Place 
them in layers on the dish they are to be served in ; 
between each layer sprinkle some castor sugar and 
pour over a little rum or brandy. 

381. — Stewed Prunes. 

Half a pound of prunes, 2 teacupfuls of water, 1 
wine-glassful of claret or other wine, 2£ ounces of 
sugar, a little lemon-peel. Simmer very carefully 



8WEET8. 151 

till the prunes are quite cooked; they ought to be 
soft and much swollen. Take them out and boil the 
syrup till thick. 

382.— Corn Flour Mould. 

1 ounce of corn flour, 1 pint of milk. Mix well 
together ; sugar to taste. Boil for 10 minutes ; put it 
in a mould, and let it stand till quite cold and set. 
Turn it out, and serve round it stewed fruits or jam, or 
a coffee custard. 

383. — Lemon Paste for Cheese-Cakes. 

1 pound of loaf sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, 4 whites of 
eggs, juice of 4 lemons, the rind of 3 grated lemons, 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter. Put it all in a 
pan and melt it. Must be about the thickness of honey. 
Put it in pots, and when cold cover it as you would 
jam. Use for tartlets and tarts. 

384. — Cheese-Cakes. 

Boil 1 pint of milk ; add 1 tablespoonful of ordinary 
vinegar (which will turn the milk to curds) ; put it 
in a sieve to drain. When thoroughly drained, beat 
it up with 1 or 2 yolks of eggs, a little grated lemon, 
or currants, and sugar to taste. Use it to bake in 
tartlets. 



152 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

The following recipes have been made in one of 
Wolffs American freezing machines, which is a very- 
simple one, and easily used. I believe there are many 
others equally good, but I have not tried them. 

Ices can be simply made. For instance, an ordinary 
gooseberry fool iced is good; the remains of some 
stewed fruit, rubbed through a hair sieve and added 
to custard or cream, make a good and simple ice. 

To clarify Sugar for Fruit Water Ices. 

Melt 4 pounds of sugar in 4 pints of water over 
the fire ; when it boils, beat in the white of one egg 
well whisked. Let it boil about 10 minutes. Strain it 
and bottle it. 

385. — Orange or Lemon Water Ice. 

Squeeze the juice from a sufficient number of 
oranges or lemons to make one quart. Melt 1 tea- 
cupful of sugar in 1 teacupful of boiling water; 
stir this into the fruit juice. When it is cold, put it 
in a mould and freeze it. 

N.B. — The above quantity of sugar does not make 
a very sweet ice ; if very sweet ices are liked, the 
quantity can be increased. 

386. — Coffee Cream Ice. 

6 or 8 yolks of eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of strong 
coffee, 1 pint of milk, 8 ounces of sugar. Stir all to- 



SWEETS. 153 

gether over the fire till set, but do not allow the 
mixture to boil. Strain it through a hair sieve. Add 
half a pint of double cream ; put it into the mould and 
freeze it. 

387. — Chocolate Cream Ice. 

Make exactly as the coffee cream ice, simply using 
6 ounces of chocolate boiled in water or milk instead 
of the coffee. 

388. — Vanilla Cream Ice. 

Make exactly like the coffee ice, but leave out the 
coffee; use an extra half-pint of milk and some 
essence of vanilla. 

389. — Fruit Cream Ice. 

Pound any fruit liked with sifted sugar; rub it 
through a sieve ; add cream. Put it in a mould and 
freeze. 

390.— Parfait au Cafe 

Boil 1 pint of milk ; take it off the fire, and stir 
in 1 pint of strong coffee. Now put in a saucepan 
8 yolks of eggs and 10 ounces of sugar. Stir the 
milk in. Place the saucepan on the fire, and whisk the 
mixture until it is just on the boil ; then take it off 
the fire, let it become cold, and strain it. Put it 
in a mould and freeze it. When half frozen, stir in 
a wine-glassful of cura<joa or rum ; finish freezing it. 
Serve immediately on a d'oyley. 



154 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

391.— Iced Souffle. 

Mix in a saucepan 6 yolks of eggs, with 4 ounces 
of clarified sugar. Whisk this over the fire until it 
nearly boils ; take it off the fire at once. Continue 
whisking till the mixture is nearly cold* Add to it 1 
quart of whisked double cream and a glass of rum or 
cura<joa. Have your souffld lining standing on ice, so 
as to get it thoroughly cold ; this is important Fix a 
band of paper about 2 inches above the dish ; pour in 
the mixture, almost as high as the paper ; cover the 
mould completely, and embed it in ice and salt. 2 hours' 
freezing is about the time it will take. Then take off 
the paper, strew biscuit powder lightly on the top, 
and serve. Souffles can be flavoured with the juice of 
fruit, or coffee, or chocolate, or vanilla, etc. 



( 155 ) 



SAVOURY DISHES. 

392. — Ham Toast. 

Put some very finely minced ham in a saucepan, 
with a little gravy, a few bread-crumbs, and a little 
cream, if you have it ; let it simmer till quite hot, and 
serve it on buttered toast. 

393. — Harrow Toast. 

Break a marrow-bone ; take out the marrow, and 
cut it into small pieces. Put the marrow into boiling 
water with a little salt, and boil it one minute so as to 
half cook it ; then drain it immediately on a sieve. 
Chop up some parsley; put it in a saucepan, with 
pepper, salt, a little lemon-juice, and the marrow. 
Toss it all together for a few minutes on the fire, 
spread it on hot toast, and serve it at once. 

394.— Kidney Toast. 

Have a cold cooked veal kidney ; cut it into very 
small pieces ; pound it in a mortar with pepper, salt, 
and some boiled onion; stir in 1 egg well beaten. 
Simmer together over the fire, and serve on toast. 



156 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



395. — German Toast 

Any remains of fricassee or hash. Chop it up 
finely, with some parsley, onion, pepper, and salt ; add 
a well-beaten egg ; put it to stew in some gravy ; let 
it reduce and thicken. When cold, pile it up on 
square pieces of toast ; lay some slices of hard-boiled 
egg on the top ; brush with beaten egg ; sprinkle with 
fine bread-crumbs ; bake in the oven. Squeeze some 
lemon-juice over, and serve. 



396. — Cheese Omelet 

Beat up 6 eggs in the usual manner ; add a tea- 
cupful of thick cream, about 2 tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese, and some pepper and salt. Cook 
the omelet in the usual manner. 



397. — Sardine Salad. 

6 eggs boiled hard, 6 onions peeled and boiled, 6 
sardines with their skins off. Cut the onions and eggs 
in slices ; put them in a salad bowl, with layers of 
sardines between them ; sprinkle pepper, salt, chopped 
tarragon, chervil, and parsley; dress with oil and 
vinegar, and serve. 



SAVOURY DISHES. 157 

398. — Macaroni " an Gratin." 

4 ounces of macaroni, 1 ounce of grated Parmesan 
cheese, 1 ounce of grated Gruy&re cheese, 1 ounce of 
butter divided in small lumps. Blend a little flour in 
1J teacupful of milk or cream; add a quarter of an 
ounce of butter, finely chopped parsley and onion, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir this all over the fire 
till the sauce is thick ; pass through a fine hair sieve. 
Boil the macaroni in salt and water; when cooked, 
pour in some cold water ; then take out the macaroni 
at once and drain it. Now stir into the macaroni the 
above sauce, nearly all the cheese, and the butter; 
place in a buttered baking-dish; sprinkle the re- 
mainder of cheese and a little hot butter on the top, 
and bake till a good gold colour. 

N.B. — Cold water is poured on the macaroni as 
soon as it is cooked with the intention of keeping it 
firm. 

Another way. — 3£ ounces of macaroni. Boil it in 
2 J pints of stock or milk about 20 minutes ; pour in 
some cold water ; take the macaroni out at once ; let 
it drain thoroughly. Have ready 3J ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, and 1 ounce of butter. Place the 
macaroni in a baking-dish; sprinkle the cheese in 
between the layers ; place the butter on the top in 
small lumps ; bake it about 10 minutes, or until a pale 
gold colour. Serve. 



158 WHOLESOME COOKEBY. 

399. — Fondue. 

Allow as many eggs as there are persons. Weigh 
the eggs ; take as much butter as will equal half the 
weight of eggs ; then take as much grated Gruy&re 
cheese as will equal a third of the weight of eggs. 
Break and beat up the eggs thoroughly in a saucepan ; 
add the butter and cheese ; place the saucepan on the 
fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon till it is as thick 
as a custard ; add some pepper, and if it requires it, 
salt also. Serve at once. This dish must not boil. 

400. — Cheese Fritters. 

Stir half a pint of water, 2 ounces of butter, and a 
pinch of salt over the fire until it boils ; throw in 3 
ounces of flour and 2 ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Stir it quickly till cooked ; then add, one by 
one, 3 eggs well beaten; stir frequently. Now with 
a spoon take some small pieces of the mixture and 
fry in boiling fat. Dish up on a napkin with water- 
cress. 

401. — Cheese Toast. 

Quarter of a pound of grated cheese. Pound it in 
a mortar, with half an ounce of butter and 1 egg. Cut 
some slices of bread ; toast and butter them on both 
sides; spread the above mixture on half an inch 
thick, and bake about 4 minutes. It should rise, and 
must be eaten at once. 



- SAVOURY DISHES. 159 

402. — Cheese Pudding. 

Warm 1 ounce of butter in a quarter of a pint of 
milk ; mix it with 3 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese 
and 5 ounces of bread-crumbs ; add 2 well-beaten eggs 
and salt to taste. Bake half an hour, and serve at 
once. 

403. — Cheese Straws. 

3 ounces of flour, 2 ounces of butter, 2 ounces of 
grated cheese, a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper. 
Hub the butter into the flour, then the cheese, pepper, 
and salt ; mix all thoroughly well Add 1 yolk of egg ; 
roll the mixture, cut it into lengths, and bake in a 
cool oven. 

404. — Stewed Cheese. 

Grate 2 ounces of cheese; mix it with 1 tea- 
cupful of cream ; add 1 beaten egg ; stew it in a small 
saucepan with 1 ounce of butter (melt the butter before 
putting in the cheese). Serve when all thoroughly 
mixed. 

405. — Toasted Cheese. 

Cut some Cheddar cheese in flakes ; put it in the 
oven, and when quite dissolved, stir it up with pepper 
and English mustard. 

Another way. — Mix the cheese in a saucepan, with 
a little milk or beer and a little mustard. When it 
is a smooth paste, serve it up on buttered toast. 



160 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

406. — Cheese Souffil. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour, half a pint of milk, 2 
ounces of butter. Stir all this well over the fire ; 
when quite mixed and smooth, add 6 ounces of grated 
cheese. Let it cool ; then add the beaten yolks of 4t 
eggs; at the very last add 4 whites of eggs well 
whisked. Flavour with pepper and salt; bake half 
an hour, and serve at once. 

407. — Hot Sandwiches. 

Bone, skin, and pound some sardines with a little- 
anchovy paste and butter and lemon-juice. Have 
some thin slices of bread and butter, and lay the 
paste between two slices to form a sandwich ; then fry 
each sandwich, and serve them up hot. 

408. — Savoury Oysters. 

Beard them ; sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and 
lemon-juice ; wrap each oyster in a very thin slice of 
fat bacon; skewer them and cook them before the 
fire. Serve on toast or fried sippets. 

409. — Cold Anchovy Toast. 

Cut some slices of bread into equal sizes and fry 
them in oil ; place them on a dish ; lay some fillets of 
anchovy or sardine on each piece. Now add to the 
oil you fried the bread in, some minced shallot, parsley, 



SAVOURY DISHES. 161 

thyme, a bay leaf, pepper, and a little vinegar. Boil 
this together; strain it; pour over the toasts, and 
serve them when they are cold. 



410. — Sardine Toast. 

Pound a few boned and skinned sardines (say 4) 
with 1 teaspoonful of gravy, 1 ounce of butter, and 
pepper. Make it hot, and serve on fried sippets or 
buttered toast. 

411. — Anchovy Toast. 

Butter some toast ; spread a little anchovy paste 
over. Now put the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs in a 
saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of cream ; set it to 
thicken over the fire, but not to boil. Season with 
cayenne ; pour it over the toast (which ought to have 
been kept hot), and serve. 

N.B. — A pinch of grated cheese added to the sauce 
is considered by some an improvement. Of course, it 
must be cooked with the sauce. 

Another way. — 3 ounces of butter, 1 teaspoonful of 

anchovy paste, a little pepper, half a pint of cream. 

Simmer till thick with 1 teaspoonful of flour. Pour 

it over some buttered toast, and serve very hot. This 

quantity makes enough for ten persons. Milk can be 

used in place of cream, but the toast is, of course, not 

so good. 

M 



1 



162 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



BREAD, ETC. 

■ 

412. — Bread. 

Flour, 4 pounds ; German yeast, 1 ounce ; about a 
quarter of an ounce of salt ; water, 1 pint. Put the 
flour and salt into a good-sized earthen pan; cover 
with a cloth, and put before the fire to get warm. 
Then make a hole in the middle large enough to hold 
a pint of water. Mix the yeast in the water, which 
must be warm, not hot ; rub it down till the yeast and 
water are thoroughly mixed — no lumps — then pour 
it into the hole in the flour, and sprinkle some of the 
flour over the hole so as to make it perfectly invisible. 
Cover with the cloth, and set by the fire again. Let it 
stand there till the flour over the hole cracks in more 
than one place ; then work it up into a light dough. 
Be very particular to use only the tips of the fingers. 
Knead it well till you see little air bubbles ; then set 
it by the fire again for a little while, till it feels very 
light to the touch. You may now tear pieces off (do 
not cut with a knife). Make into what shape or size 
you wish. Put it on a floured tin in the oven — not 
too hot a one. Bake till the loaves rise, crack, and are 
a good colour. When taken out of the oven, throw a 
cloth over to keep them in. If required lighter, try 
3 pounds of flour instead of 4 pounds. 



BBEAD, ET(L 163 

413. — Home-made Bread quickly made. 

Mix very thoroughly one heaped-up teaspoonful of 
Yeatman's yeast powder with 1 pound of Hungarian 
flour and a little salt; pour on half a pint of cold 
milk or water ; make it into a loaf, or put it in a tin, 
and immediately into a hot oven. Bake. When the 
bread has risen, open the oven door for a minute to let 
out the steam. This dough does not require much 
kneading. 

414. — Home-made Bolls quickly made. 

• 

1 quart of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoon- 
fals of Yeatman's yeast powder, 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, and about 1 pint of milk, not more. Mix the 
flour, salt, and powder thoroughly together; rub in 
the butter, add the milk ; work it into a firm dough. 
Flour the board ; knead the dough on it two or three 
times very quickly. Divide it into nicely shaped 
round pieces ; lay them on a greased baking-tin, wash 
them over with milk, and bake in a hot oven. Will 
take about 15 minutes. Must be baked as soon as 
made. 

415. — Vienna Bolls. . 

Mix 1 ounce of dry German yeaat with 1 ounce 
of pounded sugar and 2 ounces of butter; then stir 
into it 1 pint of warm milk. Have 2 pounds of 



164: WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

flour mixed with 2 eggs and some salt. Stir the milk 
and yeast gradually into the flour ; mix it all up very 
thoroughly. Let it stand in a warm place for three 
hours ; then divide it into small shapes. Flour some 
tins ; place the rolls upon them, and let them stand for 
about 20 minutes in a warm place. Bake in a quick 
oven for about 15 minutes; rub them over with a 
little sugar and water, and finish baking a few minutes 
longer. 

416. — Spice Cake. 

1 teacupful of butter, 1 teacupful of brown sugar, 
1 pint of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoonful of carraway essence, 1 of nutmeg essence, 1 of 
cinnamon essence, 1 of ginger essence, and 1 teacupful 
of milk Mix the flour, sugar, and powder; rub it 
in the butter ; add the milk and essences. Mix it to 
a batter; fill a greased tin or small patty pans, and 
bake in a hot oven. Will take about 10 minutes. 

Another way. — 1 teacupful of milk, 1 teacupful of 
butter, 3 teacupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder, 2 eggs, half a teacupful of stoned raisins and 
half a teacupful of currants, 1 teaspoonful of nutmeg 
essence, 1 of clove essence, and 1 of cinnamon essence. 
Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, 
first one, then the other ; beat between each. Mix the 
flour and powder together, and then add it to the 
other things, with the fruit, essences, and milk ; beat 



BREAD, ETC* 165 

it to a smooth batter. Line a tin with a greased 
paper, and bake about half an hour. 

417. — Short Cakes. 

1£ pint of flour, small teaspoonful of salt, 4 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of milk, 
1 teaspoonful of essence of orange. Mix the flour, sugar, 
salt, and powder; rub in the butter cold; add the 
beaten eggs and nearly all the milk, then the essence. 
Mix it all quickly into a smooth dough with the 
fingers, not the hands. Flour the board ; put the dough 
on it, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. Cut it 
into squares ; lay them on a baking-tin ; wash them 
over with the rest of the milk; lay some sliced candied 
peels on the top. Bake in a moderate oven. Will take 
about 20 minutes. 

418.— Potato Cakes. 

Mash 2 pounds of cooked potatoes, with half a 
pound of flour, salt to taste, and sufficient milk to 
bind. Roll it out ; cut it into small rounds, and bake 
on a hot iron plate or in the oven. 

419. — Bock Cakes. 

Half a pound of flour, 2 ounces of butter, 2 ounces 
of currants, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, half a table- 
spoonful of baking powder. Mix the powder and flour 



166 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

first; add the sugar and currants, then rub in the 
butter; next, enough milk to make it stiff (about 1 
teacupful of milk will be sufficient). Bake in nicely- 
shaped pieces. They must not look smooth. 

N.B. — Rock cakes can also be made, and are very 
good, with 1 pound of flour, quarter of a pound of 
dripping, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of baking powder, 2 
ounces of currants, 2 ounces of sultanas, and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. 

420. — Scones. 

1 pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, 2 
tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, 1 tablespoonful of baking 
powder. Mix with milk (sour if possible). " Roll out 
into squares and bake. 

421. — Dundee Cake. 

8 eggs, 2 teacupfuls of butter, 1 J teacupful of sugar, 
1J pint of Hungarian flour, a cupful of currants, 1 J 
cupful of sultana raisins, a little grated nutmeg, a 
little essence of vanilla, 1 cupful of pounded Jordan 
almonds, and a little candied peel cut in thin slices. 
Rub the sugar and butter together to a white cream ; 
add the eggs two at a time — beat 3 or 4 minutes 
between each. Have all the other ingredients well 
mixed together, and then add them to the sugar, butter, 
and eggs. Mix all firmly together. Have a shallow 
tin lined with a greased paper ; pour in the mixture and 
bake in a moderate oven. Will take about 1£ hour. 



BREAD, ETC. 167 

422. — Directions for Oyster Patties Paste. 

Strain the juice of 1 lemon in 1 gill of water (cold). 
Beat 1 egg to a stiff froth, and mix with above. Put 
three-quarters of a pound of dried flour into a bowl, 
and stir in- the above liquid ; knead it to a smooth paste. 
Lay it on a slab, and spread over it three-quarters 
of a pound of fresh butter. Turn over the four sides ; 
dredge with flour and roll it out four times ; then fold 
it in three and let it stand in a cool place for 2 hours. 
Have ready two round paste-cutters, one 2| inches 
across, the other 1£ inch. Roll out the paste a third 
of an inch thick and make your patties. The stewed 
oysters must be put in after the patties have been 
baked. 

423. — Directions and Proportions for Pastry. 

12 ounces of flour, 4£ ounces lard, 4£ ounces of 
butter, 1 teacupful of water, and a little salt. Mix the 
lard and flour together ; rub it with the fingers {not the 
hands) as lightly as possible and as quickly as you 
can ; add the water, and work it lightly into a paste. 
Roll the paste out, and spread upon it one-third of the 
butter; roll it again and spread again one-third of 
butter ; do this again, when all the butter will be used. 
Double it over and put it in a bowl, and let it stand 
for 2 hours before cutting for use. 

N.B. — The more you roll it the heavier the paste 
will become ; so take care. 



168 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 



SUNDRIES. 

424. — Quince Jam or Cheese. 

Slice the quinces (after they are peeled and cored). 
Put them in a stewpan, with sufficient water for them 
to float ; stir carefully from the bottom ; stew till 
reduced to a pulp, then weigh the pulp. Add three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of pulp, 
and stew till set. Put in pots and cover tightly, 

N.B. — 3 or 4 apples to every 12 quinces is by some 
considered an improvement. Some boil the quince 
seeds and peel in the water, then strain it and use it 
with the quinces instead of plain water. If put in 
moulds, the quince can be turned out, and served as a 
sweet with custard or cream poured round it. 



425. — Pickled Lemons. 



Wipe 6 lemons ; cut each lemon into 8 pieces ; put 
on them a pound of salt, 6 cloves of garlic, 2 ounces 
of horse-radish thinly sliced, 2 ounces of cloves, 2 ounces 
of mace, 2 ounces of mustard, quarter of an ounce of 
grated nutmeg, quarter of an ounce of cayenne, 2 



SUNDRIES. 169 

quarts of vinegar. Put all this in a large jar ; place 
the jar at the side of the fire, or in a saucepan of 
boiling water, and let it simmer till you think the 
lemons are cooked ; then take it off. When cold, cover 
it with a lid which fits. Stir every day for 6 weeks. 
Put it into small bottles ; cover them tightly, and keep 
for use. 



426. — To make Coffee (French Fashion). 

For each small coffee-cupful of water allow half an 
ounce of coffee. Put the coffee in the upper part of 
the coffee-pot (the ordinary French cafeti&re, which is 
made in tin and in china) ; pour the boiling water 
over, and let it stand till the water has run through. 
Must be as clear as wine. Be sure to lift off that part 
of the coffee-pot which holds the grains before you 
move the coffee-pot, or you may get a little coffee 
grounds shaken into the coffee. There is no excuse 
for not always having good coffee, provided two things 
are remembered : 1st. That the coffee provided must 
be coffee and not chicory. 2nd. That the cook must 
measure the water and weigh the coffee on each 
occasion : if she once attempts to guess at her quan- 
tities, bad coffee will be the result. It is better 
always to roast and grind the coffee at home, which 
is easily done. Put the beans on a baking tin in the 
oven, each bean separately; leave them about 10 
minutes, or until they are a rich brown. I always 



170 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

roast each day the coffee which is required for that 
day. If there is any coffee not used, it ought not to 
be thrown away. The coffee will keep if put in a 
bottle at once and tightly corked. It can then be used 
for a coffee custard or cream. 



427.— To make Coffee (Turkish Fashion). 

Grind the coffee very fine. Take the same propor- 
tions you would for French-made coffee (perhaps 
rather more water to allow of boiling away). Put the 
water into a saucepan, with a lump of sugar ; when 
boiling hard, throw in the coffee; let it come to a 
boil. Lift it off the fire as soon as it bubbles, then put 
it on the fire again ; lift it off as soon as it bubbles ; 
do this a third time. Now throw in a spoonful of 
cold filtered water to settle the grounds ; leave it quiet 
one minute, and pour carefully into cups. Will have 
a thick yellow froth at the top. Serve without milk. 
The coffee, as usual, to be freshly roasted, and on this 
occasion finely ground. 

428. — To make Chocolate. 

Cut up 1 tablet of chocolate in very small pieces ; 
blend it in a little hot water "or hot milk; then add 
enough hot water or hot milk to make up a breakfast 
cup. Boil 2 or 3 minutes, stirring all the time. 

N.B. — Some people find chocolate made with milk 



SUNDBIES. 171 

alone does not agree with them. In those cases use 
water, and add a little cold milk when you drink it. 
I find the best chocolate for this purpose is that of the 
Compagnie Coloniale, without vanilla. 

429.— Meat Tea. 

Take 1 pound of lean beef, mutton, or chicken. 
Cut it into very small pieces ; put it in a jar with 1 
pint of cold water ; put the jar in a saucepan of cold 
water, and let it gradually become warm, and let it 
simmer for 3 or 4 hours. It must not boil. Pass it 
through a hair sieve ; flavour with salt, and, if liked, 
pepper. This meat tea can be taken plain, or thick- 
ened with sago, arrowroot, or bread-crumbs ; or a little 
cream can be stirred in, or a couple of yolks of eggs, if 
the patient is allowed eggs. 

430. — Barley Cream. 

1 pound of veal. Skin it, and remove all fat ; cut 
it in pieces, and put it in 1 quart of cold water and 1 
ounce of barley. Simmer it slowly till it is reduced 
to 1 pint. Strain the liquor through a sieve, and then 
rub the meat and barley through a sieve. Add the 
liquor to it ; it ought to be of the consistency of thick 
cream. Add salt to taste ; and if the patient is allowed 
cream, a tablespoonful of cream well beaten in is an 
improvement. 



172 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

431. — Panade. 

Cut up small 2 pounds of juicy rumpsteak, or a 
whole fowl, or a pheasant (freshly killed). Put it in 
a jar ; cover this jar tightly with a paper, and prick a 
few holes into the paper. Place the jar in a saucepan 
of cold water ; the water ought to reach nearly to the 
top of the jar, but not sufficiently to come over. Fit 
the lid of the saucepan very tightly on, and let it 
•simmer gently nearly all day. Pour off the small, 
quantity of liquid which will have been extracted 
from the meat, and let it stand for the fat to rise and 
•be removed. Now take the meat, pound it in a 
mortar, and run it through a sieve into the liquid. 
Add a little salt. Will be about the consistency of 
thick cream, and is easily digested. Can be used hot 
or cold. 

432.— Potted Meat. 

Cut some fresh rumpsteak into small pieces ; put 
it all, fat and lean, into a jar with half a teacupful of 
water. Put the jar in a saucepan of water ; cover 
the jar up tight, and let the contents simmer till quite 
tender. Pound it now in a mortar, adding its own 
gravy by degrees ; flavour with pepper and salt. Place 
it in jars, and cover with hot melted butter, if it is to 
be kept any time. This potted meat is excellent used 
for sandwiches, but it is better to make only a small 
quantity at a time. 



SUNDEIES. 173 

433. — Orange Marmalade. 

Weigh the oranges, and cut them in halves or 
quarters. Take the peel off each half or quarter. Take 
the pips and skin from the fruit, and press it through 
a hair sieve. Soak the peel all night in water slightly 
salted ; next day boil it in cold water, changing 
the water frequently. When the peel is soft, take it 
out ; let it drain, then cut it into shreds or long strips. 
Now put the peel and the strained pulp into water 
(allow half a pint of water to each pound of fruit) ; 
add sugar (1 pound to each pound of fruit), a little 
grated lemon-peel. Boil all together until it is thick 
and clear. Put it into well-covered jars ; keep some 
months before using. Will take from half to 1 hour 
to boil. 

434. — To prepare Dripping for Use. 

Put the dripping in a saucepan; boil it over a 
slow fire for a few minutes ; skim it carefully ; let it 
stand to cool a little. Have a jar with some cold 
water at the bottom ; place a muslin over the top ; 
pour the dripping through. When cold and set, 
remove the dripping from the water into another jar. 

N.B. — Dripping ought to be clarified as above each 
time it has been used ; and it can be used very many 
times, especially if you occasionally add a little fresh 
dripping. 



174 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

435.— Hints for Frying. 

There must be a quantity of fat in the pan ; the 
fat must be as hot as possible ; it must smoke before 
it is ready for use. The things fried must be the 
colour of biscuits, and must be dry. If they are not, 
it is because there is not enough fat, or because it is 
not hot enough. The fat must always be clear, and 
have no specks ; the same fat can be used frequently, 
and must be clarified always before using it again. 

436.— To keep Butter for Winter Use. 

Put the butter, which must be quite fresh and 
without salt, in a large stewpan; let it gradually 
warm by the side of the fire for 1 or even 2 hours ; 
if necessary, skim it. Now pour it into earthenware 
jars, taking care to leave the sediment in the pan, and 
not on any account to pour any into the jar. Cover 
the pots carefully, as you would jam, and keep for use. 

N.B. — When butter is very cheap, instead of salt- 
ing it and keeping it for winter cooking, it is very 
much better to proceed as above. Salt butter is not 
nice for cooking ; I cannot repeat this too often. 

437. — Proportions for Frying Batter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 yolk of egg, 1 spoonful 
of salad oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Stir it up 



. SUNDRIES. 175 

thoroughly; then add a tablespoonful of water, pepper, 
and salt. Let it stand for some hours, or indeed till 
next day. Before using it, whisk up 2 whites of egg 
to a stiff froth, and beat it in. (Another way is to 
use vinegar or brandy instead of the water.) Dip the 
pieces of meat or vegetable or fruit into this batter, 
then drop into boiling fat, and fry very dry and crisp. 

438. — To beat Whites of Eggs quickly and stiffly. 

With the whites add a pinch of salt, and use a 
flat dish ; beat with a large steel knife, and always in 
the same direction. Must be used at once. 

439. — To chop Parsley fine. 

Wash it, and dry it thoroughly before chopping it ; 
if it is chopped damp, it sticks to the knife. 

440.— Cock-Tail. 

1 liqueur-glass of gin or brandy, 1£ ditto of 
water, small quantity of Angustura bitters, a little 
lemon or fresh lime juice, sugar to taste. Whisk all 
up together. A little crushed ice is an improvement ; 
but if ice be used, 1 liqueur-glass of water is sufficient. 

441. — Plantagenet Liqueur. 

Mix 1 bottle of brandy with 2 bottles best ginger 
wine ; bottle the mixture, and cork it tightly down. 



176 WHOLESOME COOKERY. 

442. — Suggestions for Different Salads. 

French beans, or cauliflowers, or a white cabbage, 
or the tops of asparagus, or celery, or beetroot and 
celery combined, when cooked and cold, make ex- 
cellent salads, either alone or together, if simply dressed 
with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt in proper propor- 
tions. Meat cut into fine shreds, with a few chopped 
pickles, and dressed with a mayonnaise sauce (the 
recipe of which is given in all cookery books), or cold 
fish dressed with the same sauce, are also excellent 
cold dishes. 

443. — Indian Chutnee. 

Cold cooked potatoes. Mash them up very smooth; 
add some, chopped green chili, and onions chopped 
small, salt, and lemon-juice. Mix all thoroughly 
together ; put it in a small mould, press it tight, and 
turn it out to serve with curry. 

N.B. — The chili and onion must be chopped very 
fine. Raw tomatoes can be used instead of potatoes. 



INDEX. 



A 

BECIPB 

Aignebelle Fritters 210 

Almond Cream 367a 

„ Paddings 367 

Anchovy Butter 122 

„ Sauce 99 

„ Toast 411 

„ Cold 409 

Apple Charlotte 375 

„ Cheese 379 

„ Tart 376 

Apples, Swiss 311 

Apricot Cream 332 

Artichoke and Tomato 

Salad 157 

„ Fritters 156 

„ Soup 13 

Artichokes " a la Cremo "... 1 55 

„ Italian 154 

„ Jerusalem, Glazed 159 

„ Puree of 158 

„ Scalloped 167 

„ Stuffed 154a 

Aspic 302 

" Au Vin de Madere," Sauce 114 

" Aux Militaires," Sauce ... 109 



B 



Baked Chocolate Custard... 338 

Coffee Custard 341 

Fish 64 



>» 



j) 



RECIPE 

Baked Gurnet 82 

„ Soles 52 

„ Turbot 84 

„ Whitings 57 

Banana Fritters 312 

Barley Cream 430 

„ Soup 18 

Batter, Proportions for Fry- 
ing 437 

Bavaroise 329 

Beans, Brazilian Black 201 

„ Brittany 198 

„ Broad, "a la Creme " 200 
„ Haricot, " a la Pro- 
vencal" ;... 192 

„ Haricot, Plain 193 

„ Eed, Puree of 196 

„ White Haricot, 

Pur£e of 199 

"Bearnaise," Sauce 116 

Bechamel Sauce 98, 98a 

Beef and Macaroni 235 

„ Fillet of, " a la Pur£e 

de Tomates" 236 
„ „ "aux (Eufs 

PocheV' 233a 

„ „ Polish Fashion 231 

„ „ Roast 234a 

„ Fillets of, and Olives 233 

„ „ andOysters 234 

„ „ Saute's 232 

„ Galantine of, Cold ... 238 

„ Silver Side of, Stewed 237 

Beetroot "a la Creme" ... 182 

N 



178 



INDEX. 



BBCTPB 

Beignets de Cervelles 255 

„ Souffles 365 

Bird, Roasted 284 

Boeuf , Langue de, an Gratin 261 

„ „ Brais^e... 260 

Boiled Chocolate Custard 339 

„ Coffee Custard 340 

Bonne Femme Sonp 3 

Border Mould, Vegetable . . . 189 

Bouille a Baisse 61 

„ „ of Cod ... 60 

Brains" a l'Espagnole" ... 252 

„ "a la Sauce" 254 

„ "en Matelote" 253 

„ Fried 251 

„ to prepare 250 

Brandy Butter 128 

Brazilian Black Beans 201 

Bread 412, 413 

„ Soup, Plain 28a 

Breast of Mutton "a la 

Sauce Piquante " 244 

Brittany Beans 198 

Broad Beans "a la Cr£me" 200 

Broiled Rabbit 293 

„ Sole 48 

„ Whitings 58a 

Brown Butter 121 

„ Sago Soup 15 

Brussels Sprouts, Dressed 146b 

„ „ Fried ... 146a 

Buff Pudding 372 

Butter, French Melted 87 

„ Horse Radish 123 

„ Maitre d'H6tel 124 

„ Ravigote 125 

„ Sauce, Melted 88 

„ Tarragon 126 

„ to keep for Winter 

Use 436 

Buttered Eggs 212 

„ „ and Cheese 213 

„ "auJus"... 214 

„ „ Spanish ... 215 

„ „ Whitings ... 58 



C 

RECIPE 

Cabbage " a la Cr6me " ... 144 

„ "an Gratin" 145 

„ Salad, Red 183 

Cabinet Pudding 309 

Cafe, Mousse au 343 

Cake, Dundee 421 

„ Spice 416 

Cakes, Potato 418 

„ Rock 419 

„ Short 417 

Canadian Pudding 366 

Capon"alaRegence" 283 

Caramel Custard 326 

„ Rice Mould 358 

„ Semolina Mould... 360 
Carrots "a la Maitre d' 

Hdtel" 170 

"alaPoulette"... 169 

„ Glazed 172 

„ Hashed 171 

Cauliflower " au Gratin "... 140 

„ Fritters 141 

Cauliflowers, Scrambled ... 142 

„ Tossed 143 

Celery and Sauce 164 

„ "auJus" 166 

„ Fritters 165 

„ Sauce 113 

Cervelles, Beignets de 555 

„ Frites 251 

„ to prepare 250 

Charlotte, Apple 375 

Chartreuse de Legumes . . . 208 

"Chateaubriand," Sauce ... 110 

Cheese and Buttered Eggs 113 

„ andSalsifis 163 

„ Apple 379 

„ Cakes 384 

,, „ Lemon Paste 

for 383 

„ Fritters 400 

„ Omelet 396 

„ Pudding 402 

„ Quince 424 

„ Souffle 406 

„ Stewed 404 



INDEX. 



179 



a 



jj 



jj 



jj 



jj 



jj 



jj 



'j 



jj 



jj 



BECIPE 

Cheese Straws 403 

„ Toast 401 

„ Toasted 405 

Chervil and Potato Soup ... 23 

Chestnut Soup 12 

Chestnuts, Puree of 191 

Chicken "a la Champe- 

noise" 270 

"a la Marengo" 268 

"a laVerez" 271 

Fried 273 

Spanish 269 

Chocolate Cream 335 

„ Ice 387 

Custard, Baked 338 

„ Boiled 339 

Mousse au 342 

Souffle 363 

to make 428 

Chutnee, Indian 443 

"Civet" of Hare 292 

Claret Jelly 378 

Clear Soup 2 

Cock-tail 440 

Cod " a la Creme " 59 

Bouille a Baisse of 60 

Middle Cut of 62 

Coffee Cream 334 

„ Ice 386 

Custard, Baked 341 

„ Boiled 340 

French Fashion 426 

"Parfaitau" 390 

Souffle 362 

Turkish Fashion ... 427 

Cold Anchovy Toast 409 

Fish, to use up 67, 68 

Galantine of Beef ... 238 

Rice Pudding, Plain... 359 

Conde Soup 22 

Corn Flour Mould 382 

C6telettes de Mouton 243 

Cream, Almond 367a 

Apricot 332 

Barley 430 

Chocolate 335 

Coffee 334 

Fruit Ice 389 



a 



a 



a 



a 



jj 



jj 



jj 



if 



j> 



a 



jj 



jj 



BECIPE 

Cream, Genoa 330 

„ Orange 331 

„ Sauce 91 

„ Set 337 

„ Snow 346 

„ Swiss 345 

„ Tea 333 

„ Velvet 336 

Crecy Soup 24 

Cr6me a l'lmperatrice 344 

„ Brulee (Cold) 327 

„ (Hot) 328 

Croustades 299 

„ of Mushrooms 180 

Crumb Pudding 373 

Cucumbers "& la Maitre 

d'Hdtel 168 

,, "a la Poulette" 168a 
Curried Eggs or Vege- 
tables 188 

„ Macaroni , 184 

„ Rice 205 

„ Soup 46 

„ Vegetables 187 

Curry Sauce 90 

. Custard, Baked Chocolate 338 

„ „ Coffee 341 

„ Boiled Chocolate 339 

„ „ Coffee 340 

„ Caramel 326 

„ Venus 325 



D 



De Grey Pudding 374 

Devil Mixture 127 

Dressed Brussels Sprouts*.. 146b 

„ Endives 147 

„ Salsifis 162 

Dripping 434 

DuckDouillet 274 

„ Salmis of Wild 276 

„ Stewed, and Olives... 275 

„ „ and Turnips 277 

Dundee Cake 421 



180 



INDEX. 



E 

RKCTPK 

Eel " a la Minute " 81 

„ "alaRavigote" 79 

„ "Suffren" 80 

Egg Curry 188 

Eggs"alaNeige" 350 

„ "a la Tripe" 221 

„ and Fine Herbs 216 

„ " aux Asperges " 219 

„ " aux Macarons " ... 349 

,, " aux Pistaches " 351 

„ Buttered 212 

„ „ and Cheese 213 

"auJus"... 214 

„ „ Spanish 215 

„ " en Matelote" 217 

„ Italian 211 

,, poached, and Tomato 

Sauce 218 

„ Spanish 215 

„ "surlePlat" 220 

„ to beat Whites of ... 438 

Endives, Dressed 147 

English Clear Soup 2 

F 

Faubonne Soup 25 

Faverges Potatoes 1 33b 

Fig Mould 318 

Fillet of Beef "aux CEufs 

Poches" 233a 
„ „ " Brais£, a la 
Puree de 

Toinates " 236 

„ „ Polish 231 

„ „ Boast 234a 

„ Veal " aux An- 

chois" 249 

Fillets of Beef and Olives 233 

„ „ and Oysters 234 

„ „ Sautes 232 

Eel 79 

„ Salmon 76 

„ Whiting and 

Mushrooms 56 



Fine Herb Sauce 114 

Fish"auGratin" 68 

„ Baked 64 

„ Cold, to use up 67 

„ Indian Way of Cooking 63 

„ Sauce, Swiss 92 

., Small 73 

Flemish Mackerel 69 

Fonds d' Artichauds Soup ... 13 

Fondue 399 

Foreign Stew 245 

Fowl "a la Marengo" 268 

„ "alaVerez" 271 

„ "an Biz" 272 

„ Stew 282 

Francatelli's Bonne Femme 

Soup 3 

French Coffee 426 

„ Fritters 365 

„ Melted Butter 87 

„ Pancakes 323 

Fricandeau of Veal 248 

Fricassee of Mushrooms ... 179 

Fried Brussels Sprouts . . . 146a 

„ Chicken 273 

„ Oysters 307 

„ Potatoes, Plain 129 

„ Smelts 72 

Fritters, Aiguebelle 210 

„ Artichoke 156 

„ Banana 312 

„ Cauliflower '. . . . 141 

„ Celery 165 

„ Cheese 400 

„ Salsifis 161 

Frittura, Mixed 256 

Fruit Cream Ice 389 

„ Water Ices 384 

Frying Batter 437 

„ Hints for 435 



G 



Galantine of Beef, Cold ... 238 

Game Souffle* 289 

„ Soup 36 

„ Stew 282 



INDEX. 



181 



BECIPE 

Garlic Sauce 118 

Genoa Cream 330 

German Pudding Sauce ... 119 

„ Toast 395 

Gherkin Sauce 107 

Glazed Carrots 172 

„ Jerusalem Arti- 
chokes 159 

„ Turnips 176 

Goose stuffed with Chest- 
nuts 278 

Gothic Sauce Ill 

Gratin of Cabbage 145 

„ Cauliflower 140 

„ Fish 68 

„ Macaroni 398 

„ Ox Tongue 261 

„ Potatoes 132 

„ Sole 53 

„ Tomatoes 178 

„ Turbot 83 

„ Turnips 174 

Green Peas, Puree of 197 

„ Sauce 97 

Grilled Salmon 78 

Gurnet, Baked 82 



Ham " au Vin de Madere " 296 

„ Omelet 229 

„ Toast 332 

Hare, "Civet" of 292 

„ Roast 291 

Haricot Beans "a la Pro- 
vencal... 192 

„ „ Plain 193 

„ „ White, Puree 

of 199 

„ of Mutton 239 

Hashed Carrots 171 

„ Leeks 152 

Herb Sauce 115 

„ Soup 16 

Herrings "a la Maltre d' 

H6tel" 71a 

„ "au Beurre Noir" 70b 



BECIPE 

Hints for Frying 435 

Home-made Bread 412, 413 

„ Bolls 414 

Horse-radish Butter 123 

„ Sauce 101 

Hot Polish Salad 183 

„ Sandwiches 407 

Hung Mutton 240 



Ice, Chocolate Cream 387 

„ Coffee Cream 386 

„ Fruit Cream 389 

„ Lemon Water 385 

„ Orange Water 385 

„ Vanilla Cream 388 

IcedSoufile* 391 

Indian Chutnee 443 

„ Way of Cooking 

Fish 63 

Italian Artichokes 154 

„ Eggs ,.. 211 

„ Potatoes 138 

„ Sauce 102 

„ Soup 6 



Jam, Quince 424 

Jelly, Aspic or Meat 302 

„ Claret 378 

„ Orange 377 

Jerusalem Artichokes, 

Glazed ... 159 

„ „ Scalloped 167 

Julienne Soup 26 

Junket 348 



Kidney Toast 392 

Kidneys, Stewed Sheep's . . . 265 

Kromeskys 308 

„ Oyster 301 

N 3 



182 



INDEX. 



L 

RECIPE 

Langne de Boeuf an Gratin 261 

„ „ Braisee... 260 

Larks, Stewed 281 

Leeks* Hashed 152 

„ Whole 153 

Leg of Mutton « a l'Alle- 

mande " 241 

„ „ Stewed ... 242 

Legumes, Chartreuse de ... 208 

„ Timbalede 190 

Lemon Paste 383 

„ Waterloo 385 

Lemons, Pickled 425 

Lent Soup 10 

Lentil and Sorrel Sonp ... 37 

„ Sonp 23 

Lentils 194 

„ Puree of 195 

Lettuce Sonp 27 

Liqueur, Plantagenet 441 

Liver " a Vltalienne " 264 

„ "alaMenagere" ... 263 

„ Stuffing 266 

Livonian Soup 5 

M 

Macaroni and Beef 235 

„ and Tomato 186 

„ "an Gratin" 398 

„ Curried 184 

„ "enTimbale" ... 185 

„ Soup 7 

Mac6doine, Vegetable 149 

Macedonian Soup 4 

Mackerel "a l'Allemande" 70a 
„ "a la Maltre d' 

Hdtel" 71 

„ "auBeurreNoir" 70 

„ Flemish 69 

Madeira Sauce , 114 

Maltre d'Hdtel Butter 124 

Malvern Pudding 368 

Maraschino Toast 315 

Marmalade, Orange 433 

„ Pudding 369 



RECIPE 

Marrow Toast 393 

Meat and Vegetable Sauce 119a 

„ Jelly or Aspic 302 

„ Potted 432 

„ Tea 429 

" Melangee," Sauce 108 

Melted Butter 87 

„ „ Sauce "an 

Beurre"... 88 

Militaires, Sauce aux 109 

Mincemeat 322 

Mixed Frittura 256 

Monaco Soup 41 

Mould, Caramel Bice 358 

„ „ Semolina... 360 

„ Corn Flour 382 

„ Fig 318 

„ PlainBJce 357 

„ Prune 319 

„ Bice 300 

„ Savoury 247 

„ Vegetable Border ... 189 

Mousse an Cafe 342 

„ an Chocolat 341 

Mullet, Bed 85 

Mulligatawny Soup 45 

Mushrooms, "a la Borde- 

laise" 181 

,, Croustadesof 180 

„ Fricassee of ... 179 

Mustard Sauce 103 

Mutton Cutlets " aux 

Ognons" 243 

„ Haricotof 239 

„ Hung 240 

, , Neck of, Stewed . . . 246 
„ Tongues "a la 

Puree" 259 

„ „ in Cases 258 

„ „ to prepare 257 

N 

Neapolitan Rice 204 

Neck of Mutton, Stewed ... 246 

Ntmes Sauce 117 

Normande, Sole, or Sole 

«au Gratin" 53 



INDEX. 



183 



O 

RECIPE 

(Euf s a la Neige 350 

„ aux Macarons 349 

„ aux Fistaches 351 

Okra and Tomato Soup 20 

Omelet 222 

„ "a la Jardiniere" 228 

„ "alaBobespierre" 353 

„ "alaSoubise" 226 

„ and Tomato 225 

„ "auRhum" 355 

„ "aux Confitures"... 354 

„ "auxOgnon8 ,, 227 

„ Cheese 396 

„ Ham 223 

„ "Souffle^ 356 

„ Sweet 352 

.„ Trufiled 230 

Omelets, Savoury 224 

Onion and Tomato Salad . . . 207 

Soud 44 

Onions " a la Crime"'.' ..'...' 150 

„ "auJus" 151 

Orange Cream 331 

„ Jelly 377 

„ Marmalade 433 

„ Salad 380 

„ Waterloo 385 

Ox Tail 262 

„ Tongue " au Gratin" ... 261 

„ "Braisee" 260 

Oyster Kromesky s 301 

„ Fatties Paste 422 

„ Soup 11 

Oysters, Fried 307 

„ Savoury 408 



Pain Perdu 313 

Panade 431 

Pancakes, French 323 

Parfait au Cafe* 390 

Parisian Potatoes 137 

„ Soup 39 



RECIPE 

Parsley, to chop fine 439 

Partridges "a l'Estouf- 

fade" 286 

„ "a la Farisi- 

enne" 285 

„ "a la Portu- 

gaise" 287 

„ Salmis of 288 

Pastry, Directions and Pro- 
portions for 423 

„ Bissoles 306 

Pea and Bice Soup 34 

„ Soup 30 

Pears, Stewed 317 

Peas, Split Green, Puree 

of. 197 

Peasant Soup 9 

Pheasant "en Souffl6" 289 

Pickled Lemons 425 

Piedmontese Soup 21 

Pigeons and Prawns 280 

„ Stewed 279 

Plain Bread Soup 28a 

„ Haricot Beans 193 

„ Bice Mould ... 357 

„ SoufilS 361 

„ Turnip Soup 33 

„ Vegetable Salad 209 

„ „ Soup 29 

Plantagenet Liqueur 441 

Plum-Pudding 320 

Plain 321 

Poached Eggs and Tomato 

Sauce 218 

" Poivrade," Sauce 100 

Polish Fillet of Beef 231 

„ Salad, Hot 183 

Pore a la Bobert 297 

Pot aufeu Beef 1 

„ Soup 1 

Potato and Chervil Soup ... 38 

„ Cakes 418 

„ Salad 184 

„ Soup 40 

Potatoes " a la Crime" ... 136 

„ "a laLyonnaise" 130 
„ "a la Mattre 

d'Hdtel" 133 



i 



184 



INDEX. 



BECIPE 

Potatoes and White Sauce 139 

„ "auGratin" 132 

„ Faverges 133b 

„ Fried 129 

„ Italian 138 

„ Parisian 137 

„ Pure*eof 131 

„ Souffle* 135 

„ Tpssed 133a 

Potted Meat 432 

Prunes, Stewed 381 

Pudding, Almond 367 

Buff 372 

„ Cabinet 309 

„ Canadian 366 

„ Cheese 402 

„ Crumb 373 

„ DeGrey 374 

„ Malvern 368 

„ Marmalade 369 

„ Plain Plum 321 

„ Plum.. 320 

„ Bavensdale 324 

„ Scotch 370 

„ Semolina 371 

„ Winter 310 

Puree of Artichokes 158 

„ Chestnuts 191 

„ Lentils 195 

„ Bed Beans 196 

„ Spinach 146 

„ Split Green Peas 197 

„ Sorrel 148 

„ Turnips 175 

„ White Haricot 
Beans "k la 

Creme" 199 

Ponle au Biz 272 

Proportions for Frying 

Batter 437 

„ for Pastry 423 

Prorencale Stuffing, for 

Birds 267 

Prune Mould 319 

Pnffs 316 

Pumpkin " a Vltalienne "... 206 

„ and Bice 160 

„ „ Soup ... 31 



EKCIPK 

Pumpkin and Tomato Soup 19 
Soup 43 



» 



Q 



Quails, Boasted 290 

Quince Jam 424 



B 



Babbit, Broiled 293 

„ " en Papillote " 295 

„ "Saut6" 294 

Bagout a la Financiere 303 

"Baifort," Sauce 101 

Bavensdale Pudding 324 

Bavigote Butter 125 

„ Sauce (Cold) 96 

„ (Hot) 95 

Bed Beans, Puree of 193 

„ Cabbage Salad 186 

„ Mullet 85 

"Bemoulade," Sauce 106 

Bice and Pea Soup 34 

„ and Pumpkin 160 

„ „ Pumpkin Soup ... 31 

„ „ Turnip Soup 32 

„ Cream Soup 35 

„ Curried 205 

„ Mould 357 

„ Pudding 359 

Rissoles 304 

„ Pastry 306 

„ Westphalian 305 

Bisotto " a la Milanaise "... 203 

„ " a la Napolitaine " 204 

„ " a la Venitienne " 202 

Boast Bird 284 

„ Fillet of Beef 234a 

„ Hare 291 

„ Quails 290 

" Bobert," Sauce 105 

Bock Cakes 419 

Bolls, Home-made 414 

„ Vienna 415 



INDEX. 



185 



S 

RECIPE 

Sago Soup 14,15 

Salad, Artichoke and To. 

mato 157 

„ Hot Polish 183 

„ Onion and Tomato 207 

„ Orange 380 

„ Potato 134 

„ Red Cabbage 183 

„ Sardine 397 

„ Vegetable, Plain ... 209 
Salads, Suggestions for 

Different 442 

Salmis of Partridges 288 

„ Wild Duck 276 

Salmon "au Bleu" 77 

„ Fillets 76 

„ Grilled 78 

Salpicon 298 

Salsifis and Cheese 163 

„ Dressed 162 

„ Fritters 161 

„ Scalloped 167 

Sandwiches, Hot 407 

Sardine Salad 397 

„ Toast 410 

Sardines 86 

Sauce " a la Bechamel "... 98a 

„ Anchovy 99 

„ „ Butter ... 122 

„ and Celery 164 

„ "auBeurre" 88 

„ " au Vin de Madere" 114 

„ "auxMilitaires" ... 109 

„ "Bearnaise" 116 

„ Bechamel 98 

„ Brandy Butter, for 

Sweets 128 

„ Brown Butter 121 

„ Celery 113 

„ " Chateaubriand "... 110 

„ Cream 91 

„ Curry 90 

„ Devil Mixture 127 

„ " Faute de Beurre " 119a 

„ Fine Herb 115 

„ French Melted Butter 87 



BKCIPB 

Sauce, Garlic 118 

„ German Pudding . . . 119 

„ Gherkin 107 

„ Gothic Ill 

„ Green 97 

„ Horse-radish 101 

„ „ Butter 123 

„ Italian 102 

„ Madeira 114 

„ Maitre d'H6tel Butter 124 

„ Meat and Vegetable 119a 

„ "Melangee" 108 

„ Mustard 103 

„ Nimes 117 

„ "Poivrade" 100 

„ Puree 112 

„ "Raifort" 101 

„ Ravigote Butter ... 125 

(Hot) 95 

„ (Cold) 96 

„ "Remoulade" 106 

„ "Robert" 105 

„ Soubise 112 

„ Spanish 94 

„ Sweet Swiss *120 

„ Swiss 9 

„ Tarragon Butter ... 126 

„ Tomato 93 

„ Vegetable and Meat 119a 

„ Walnut 89 

„ Yellow, for Fri- 
cassees 104 

Savoury Mould 247 

„ Omelets 224 

„ Oysters 408 

Scalloped Salsifi 167 

Scones 420 

Scotch Pudding 370 

Scrambled Cauliflowers ... 142 

Semolin Pudding 371 

Set Cream 337 

Sheep's Kidneys, Stewed... 265 

ShortCakes 417 

Silver Side of Beef, Stewed 237 

Simple Pea Soup 30 

Skate "a l'ltalienne" 66 

„ "au Beurre Noir"... * 65 

Small Fish 73 



186 



INDEX. 



RECIPE 

Smelts, Fried 72 

Snow, Cream 346 

Sole " a la Cr&ne " 47 

„ Broiled 48 

„ Normande, or "an 

Gratin" 53 

Soles " a la Colbert " 51 

„ "alaOrly" 54 

„ " a la Parisienne "... 50 

„ " a la Turban " 49 

„ Baked '52 

Solferino Soup 8 

Sorrel and Lentil Soup ... 37 

„ Cream Soup 42 

„ Puree of 148 

Soubise Sauce 112 

„ Soup 17 

Souffle, Beignet 365 

„ Cheese 406 

„ Chocolate 363 

„ Coffee 362 

„ Iced 391 

„ of Pheasant 289 

„ Plain 361 

„ Potatoes 135 

„ Vanilla 364 

Soup, Barley 18 

„ Brown Sago 15 

„ Chestnut 12 

„ Conde* 22 

„ Crecy 24 

„ Curried 46 

„ English Clear 2 

„ Faubonne 25 

„ Fonds d'Artichauds 13 
„ Francatelli's Bonne 

Femme 3 

„ Game 36 

„ Herb 16 

„ Italian 6 

„ Julienne 26 

„ Lent 10 

„ Lentil 23 

„ „ and Sorrel ... 37 

„ Lettuce 27 

„ Livonian 5 

„ Macaroni 7. 

„ Macedonian 4 



BECIPE 

Soup, Monaco 41 

„ Mulligatawny 45 

„ Onion 44 

„ Oyster 11 

„ Parisian 39 

„ Peasant 9 

„ Piedmontese 21 

„ Plain Bread 28a 

„ „ Turnip 33 

»> » Vegetable 29 

„ Pot au feu 1 

„ Potato 40 

„ „ and Chervil. . . 38 

„ Pumpkin 43 

„ Bice and Pea 34 

,*, ,, „ Pumpkin... 31 

„ „ Cream 35 

„ Simple Pea 30 

„ Solferino 8 

,, SoiTel and Lentil ... 37 

„ „ Cream 42 

„ Soubise 17 

,, Spring 28 

„ Tomato andOkra ... 19 

„ „ Pumpkin 20 

„ Turnip and Bice ... 36 

„ White Sago 14 

Spanish Chicken 269 

„ Torrijas 314 

Spanish Sauce 94 

Spice Cake 416 

Spinach, Puree of 146 

Split Green Peas, Puree of 197 

Spring Soup 28 

Sprouts, Dressed Brussels 146b 

,, Fried Brussels ... 146a 

Stew, Foreign 245 

„ Game or Fowl 282 

Stewed Cheese 404 

„ Duck and Olives... 275 

„ „ Turnips 277 

„ Larks 281 

„ Leg of Mutton ... 242 

„ Neck of Mutton . . . 246 

„ Pears 317 

„ Pigeons 279 

„ Prunes 381 

„ Silver Side of Beef 237 



INDEX. 



187 



RECIPE 

Straws, Cheese 403 

Staffed Artichokes 154a 

Stuffing, Liver 266 

„ Provencale 267 

"Stiffren"Eel 80 

Sugar, to clarify for Ices . . . 384 

Sweet Omelet 352 

„ Swiss Sauce 120 

Sweetbreads "a l'Espag- 

nole" 252 

„ " en Matelote" 253 

Swiss Apples 311 

„ Cream 345 

„ Sauce, Savoury 92 

Syllabubs 347 



Tart, Open Apple 


126 
376 


Tea Cream 


333 


Timbale de Legumes 

Toast, Anchovy 

„ Cold 


190 
411 
409 


„ Cheese 


401 




395 


„ Ham 


392 


„ Kidney 

„ Maraschino 


394 
315 




393 


„ Sardine 


410 


Toasted Cheese 


405 


Tomato and Artichoke 




Salad 


157 


j, and Okra Soup ... 
„ and Onion Salad 


20 
207 


,, andPump kin Soup 
„ "an Gratin" 


19 
178 




186 


„ Omelet and 


225 




93 


Tomatoes, Tossed 


177 


Tongue, Mutton, "a la 

Puree " 


259 


,, „ in cases ... 


258 


Tongues, Mutton, to pre- 


257 



BECIPB 

Torrijas (Spanish) 314 

Tossed Cauliflowers 148 

„ Potatoes 133a 

„ Tomatoes 177 

Trout " a la Hussarde "... 75 

„ "auBleu" 74 

Truffled Omelet 230 

Truffles, to prepare 229 

Turbot " au Gratin " 83 

„ Baked 84 

Turkey stuffed with 

Chestnuts 278 

Turkish Coffee 427 

Turnip and Bice Soup 32 

„ Soup, Plain 33 

Turnips " au Gratin " 174 

„ "enPoulette" ... 173 

„ Glazed 176 

„ Pur&of 175 



Vanilla Cream Ice 388 

„ Souffle 364 

Veal " aux Anchois " 249 

„ Fricandeau of 248 

Vegetable and Meat Sauce 119a 

„ Border Mould... 189 

„ Curried 187 

„ Mac^doine 149 

„ or Egg Curry ... 188 

„ Salad, Plain ... 209 

„ Sauce, Swiss ... 92 

„ Soup 29 

Velvet Cream 336 

Venetian Rice 202 

Venus Custard 325 

Vienna Bolls 415 



W 



Walnut Sauce 89 

Water Ices, Fruit 384 

Westphalian Bissoles 305 



188 



INDEX. 



R80IPS 

White Sago Soup 14 

„ Sauce and Potatoes 13$ 

Whites of Eggs, to beat ... 438 

Whitings "a la Orly " 55 

„ Baked 57 

„ Broiled 58a 

„ Buttered 58 

„ Fillets of, and 

Mushrooms ... 56 

Whole Leeks 153 



&ECIPK 

Wild Duck, Salmis of 276 

Winter Padding 310 



Yellow Sauce 



»> 



>t 



for Fricassees 



88 
104 



THE END. 



PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BBCCLES 



A LIST OF 

KEG AN PAUL, TRENCH, & CO.'S 

PUBLICATIONS. 



12. Si) 



I, Paternoster Square, London. 

A LIST OF 

KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, & CO.'S 

PUBLICATIONS. 



ADAMS (F. O.), F.R.O.S. 
The History of Japan. From 

the Earliest Period to the Present 
Time. New Edition, revised, a 
volumes. With Maps and Plans. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 2 if. each. 

ADAMS (W. D.). 
Lyrics of Love, from Shake- 
speare to Tennyson. Selected and 
arranged by. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth extra, 
gilt edges, price 3*. 6d. 

ADAMSON (H. T.), B.D. 
The Truth as it is in Jesus. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 8s. 6d. 

The Three Sevens. Crown 

8vo. Cloth, price $s. 6d. 

ADAM ST. VICTOR. 
The Liturgical Poetry of 
Adam St. Victor. From the text 
of Gautjer. With Translations into 
English in the Original Metres, and 
Short Explanatory Notes. By Digby 
S. Wrangham, M.A. q vols. Crown 
8vo. Printed on hand-made paper. 
Cloth, price 2 if. 

A* K* H. B. 

From a Quiet Place. A New 
Volume of Sermons. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 5*. 

ALBERT (Mary). 

Holland and her Heroes to 

the year 1585. An Adaptation from 
Motley's " Rise of the Dutch Re- 
public." Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price, 4s. 6d. 

ALLEN (Rev. R.), M.A. 
Abraham ; his Life, Times, 

and Travels, 3,800 years ago. Se- 
cond Edition. ^ With Map. Post 
8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

ALLEN (Grant), B.A. 

Physiological /Esthetics. 

Large post 8vo. gs. 



ALLIES (T. W.), M.A. 
Per Crucem ad Lucem. The 

Result of a Life, 2 vols. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 25$. 

A Life's Decision. Crown 

8vo. Cloth, price ys. 6d. 
ANDERSON (Col. R. P.). 

Victories and Defeats. An 

Attempt to explain the Causes which 
have led to them. An Officer's 
Manual. Demy8vo. Cloth, price 14*. 

ANDERSON (R. C), C.E. 

Tables for Facilitating the 
Calculation of every Detail in 
connection with Earthen and 
Masonry Dams. Royal 3 vo. Cloth, 
price ^2 as. 

ARCHER (Thomas). 
About my Father's 

Business. Work amidst the Sick, 
the Sad, and the Sorrowing. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. 

ARMSTRONG (Richard A.),B. A. 
Latter-Day Teachers. Six 

Lectures. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 2s. 6d. 

Army of the North German 
Confederation. 

A Brief Description of its Organi- 
zation, of the Different Branches 
of the Service and their rdle in War, 
of its Mode of Fighting, &c. &c. 
Translated from the Corrected Edi- 
tion, by permission of the Author, by 
Colonel Edward Newdigate. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

ARNOLD (Arthur). 

Social Politics. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 14$. 

Free Land. Second Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 



A List of Kegan Paul, Trench, 6* Cols Publications. 3 



AUBERTINQJ). 
Camoens' Lusiads. Portu- 
guese Text, with Translation by. 
With Map and Portraits, a vols. 
Demy 8vo. Price 301. 

Seventy Sonnets of Ca- 
moens'. Portuguese text and trans- 
lation, with some original poems. 
Dedicated to Captain Richard F. 
Burton. Printed on hand-made paper. 
Cloth, bevelled boards, gilt top, 
price 7*. 6d. 

Aunt Mary's Bran Pie. 

By the author of " St Olave's." 
Illustrated. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

AVIA. 
The Odyssey of Homer 

Done into English Verse. Fcap. 
4to. Cloth, price 15s. 

BADGER (George Perry), D.C.L. 

An English- Arabic Lexi- 
con. In which the equivalents for 
English words and idiomatic sen- 
tences are rendered into literary and 
colloquial Arabic. Royal 4to. Cloth, 
price £g gs. 

BAGEHOT (Walter). 

Some Articles on the De- 
preciation of Silver, and Topics 
connected with it. Demy 8vo. Price 
5*. 

The English Constitution. 

A New Edition, Revised and 
Corrected, with an Introductory 
Dissertation on Recent Changes and 
Events. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
7*. 6d. 

Lombard Street. A 

Description of the Money Market. 
Seventh Edition. Crown 8 vo. Cloth, 
price fs. 6d. 

BAGOT (Alan). 

Accidents in Mines : their 
Causes and Prevention. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price dr. 

BAKER (Sir Sheraton, Bart.). 

Halleck's International 

Law ; or Rules Regulating the 
Intercourse of States in Peace and 
War. A New Edition, Revised, with 
Notes and Cases. 2 vols. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 38*. 



BAKER [Sir Sheraton, Bart.)— 
continued. 

The Laws relating to Qua- 
rantine. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
im. 6d. 

BALDWIN (Capt.J. H.), F.Z.8. 

The Large and Small Game 
of Bengal and the North- West- 
ern Provinces of India. 4to. With 
numerous Illustrations. Second Edi- 
tion. Cloth, price aw. 

BALLIN (Ada S. and P. L.). 
A Hebrew Grammar. With 

Exercises selected from the Bible. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 6d. 

BANKS (Mrs. O. L.). 
God's Providence House. 

New Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. 6d. 

Ripples and Breakers 

Poems. Square 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

BARCLAY (Edgar). 
Mountain Life in Algeria. 

Crown 4to. With numerous Illustra- 
tions by Photogravure. Cloth, price 
16s. 

BARLEE (Ellen). 
Locked Out : a Tale of the 

Strike. With a Frontispiece. Royal 
x6mo. Cloth, price 1*. 6d. 

BARNES (William). 

An Outline of English 

Speechcraft. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 4s. 

Poems of Rural Life, in the 

Dorset Dialect. New Edition, 
complete in 1 vol. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 8s. 6d. 

Outlines of Redecraft 

(Logic). With English Wording. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 

BARTLEY (George C. T.). 
Domestic Economy : Thrift 

in Every Day Life. Taught in 
Dialogues suitable for Children of 
all ages. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
limp, a*. 



A List of 



BAUR (Ferdinand), Dr. Ph. 

A Philological Introduction 
to Greek and Latin for Students. 
Translated and adapted from the 
German of. By C. Keg an Paul, 
M.A. Oxon., and the Rev. E. D. 
Stone, M.A., late Fellow of King's 
College, Cambridge, and Assistant 
Muter at Eton. Second and re- 
vised edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

BAYNES (Rev. Canon R. H.). 

At the Communion Time. 
A Manual for Holy Communion. 
With a preface by the Right Rev. 
the Lord Bishop of Deny and 
Raphoe. Cloth, price is. td. 

%* Can also be had bound in 
French morocco, price 2s. td. ; Per- 
sian morocco, price 3*. ; Calf, or 
Turkey morocco, price 3*. td. 

Home Songs for Quiet 

Hours. Fourth and Cheaper Edi- 
tion. Fcap. 8vo Cloth, price 2s. td. 
This may also be had. handsomely 
bound in morocco with gilt edges. 

BELLINGHAM (Henry), Barris- 
ter-at-Law. 

Social Aspects of Catholi- 
cism and Protestantism in their 
Civil Bearing upon Nations. 
Translated and adapted from the 
French of M. le Baron de Haulle- 
ville. With a Preface by His Emi- 
nence Cardinal Manning. Second 
and cheaper edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 3s. td. 

BENNETT (Dr. W. C). 

Narrative Poems & Ballads. 

Fcap. 8vo. Sewed in Coloured Wrap- 
per, price is. 

Songs for Sailors. Dedicated 
by Special Request to H. R. H. the 
Duke of Edinburgh. With Steel 
Portrait and Illustrations. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 3*. td. 

An Edition in Illustrated Paper 
Covers, price is. 

Songs of a Song Writer. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6*. 

BENT 0. Theodore). 
Genoa. How the Republic 

Rose and Fell. With 18 Illustra- 
tions. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 18*. 



BETHAM - EDWARDS (Miss 
M.). 

Kitty. With a Frontispiece. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6*. 

BEVINGTON (L. S.). 
Key Notes. Small crown 

8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

Blue Roses ; or, Helen Mali- 
nofska's Marriage. By the Author 
of " Ve*ra." 2 vols. Fifth Edition. 
Cloth, gilt tops, 1 2 j. 

%* Also a Cheaper Edition in 1 
vol. With Frontispiece. Crown 8 vo. 
Cloth, price 6*. 

BLU ME (Major W.). 

The Operations of the 
German Armies in Prance, from 
Sedan to the end of the war of 1870- 
71. With Map. From the Journals 
of the Head-quarters Staff. Trans- 
lated by the late E. M. Jones, Maj. 
20th Foot, Prof, of Mil. Hist., Sand- 
hurst. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 9*. 

BOGUSLAWSKI (Capt. A. von). 
^Tactical Deductions from 
'the War of 1870-71. Translated 
by Colonel Sir Lumley Graham, 
Bart., late 18th (Royal Irish) Regi- 
ment. Third Edition, Revised and 
Corrected. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 
7*. 

BONWICKfJ.), F.R.G.S. 
Egyptian Belief and Mo- 
dern Thought. Large post 8vo. 
Cloth, price 10s. 6d. 

Pyramid Pacts and Fan- 
cies. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 
The Tasmanian Lily. With 

Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 5*. 

Mike Howe,the Bushranger 
of Van Diemen's Land. With 
Frontispiece. New and cheaper 
edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
2f. td. 

BOWEN (H.C.), M.A. 
English Grammar for Be- 
ginners. Fcap.8vo. Cloth, price is. 

Studies in English, for the 
use of Modern Schools. Small crown 
8vo. Cloth, price is. td. 

Simple English Poems. 

English Literature for Junior Classes. 
In Four Parts. Parts 1. and II., price 
td. each, now ready. 



Kegan Paul, Trench, &* Co.'s Publications. 



BOWRINO (Sir John). 
Autobiographical Recollections. 
With Memoir by Lewin B. Bowring. 
Demy 8vo. Price x+r. 

Brave Men's Footsteps. 

By the Editor of " Men who have 
Risen." A Book of Example and 
Anecdote for Young People. With 
Four Illustrations by C. Doyle. 
Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. 6d. 

BRIALMONT(Col. A.). 
Hasty Intrenchments. 
Translated by Lieut Charles A. 
Empson, R. A. With Nine Plates. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

BRIDQETT (Rev. J. E.). 
History of the Holy Eucha- 
rist in Great Britain, a vols., 
demy 8vo. Cloth, price iZs. 

BRODRICK(The Hon. O. C). 
Political Studies. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 14*. 
BROOKE (Rev. 8. A.), M. A. 
The Late Rev. F. W. Ro- 
bertson, M.A., Life and Letters 
of. Edited by. 

I. Uniform with the Sermons, 
a vols. With Steel Portrait. Price 
•js. 6d. 

II. Library Edition. 8vo. With 
Portrait. Price 12*. 

III. A Popular Edition, in x voL 
8vo. Price 6*. 

Sermons. First Series. 

Twelfth and Cheaper Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 
Sermons. Second Series. 

Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

Theology in the English 

PoetS. — COWPBR, COLBRIDGB, 

Wordsworth, and Burns. Fourth 
and Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo. 
Cloth, price 51. 

Christ in Modern Life. 

Fifteenth and Cheaper Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

The Spirit of the Christian 
Life. A New Volume of Sermons. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price js . 6d. 

The Fight of Faith. Ser- 
mons preached on various occasions. 
Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price is. 6d. 



BROOKE (W. Q.), M . A. 
The Public Worship 
Regulation Act. With a Classified 
Statement of its # Provisions, Notes, 
and Index. Third Edition, Revised 
and Corrected. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price v. 6d. 

Six Privy Council Judg- 
ments— X850- 187a. Annotated by. 
Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price q*. 

BROUN (J. A.). 
Magnetic Observations at 
Trevandrum and Augustia 
Malley. VoL I. 4to. Cloth, 
price 63*. 

The Report from above, separately 
sewed, price at*. 

BROWN (Rev. J. Baldwin). 
The Higher Life. Its Reality, 
Experience, and Destiny. Fifth and 
Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. doth, 
price 5*. 

Doctrine of Annihilation 
in the Light of the Qoapel 
of Love. Five Discourses. Third 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
9S. 6d. 

The Christian Policy of 

Life. A Book for Young Men of 
Business. New and Cheaper Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. 

BROWN 0- Croumbie), LL.D. 
Reboisement in France; or, 

Records of the Replanting of the 
Alps, the Cevennes, and the Pyre-, 
nees with Trees, Herbage, and Bosh. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price zax. 6d. 

The Hydrology of Southern 

Africa. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 
10*. 6d. 

BROWNE (W. R ), 
The Inspiration of the 
New Testament. With a Preface 
by the Rev. T. P. Norris, D.D. 
Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price ax. 6d. 

BRYANT (W. C.) 
Poems. Red-line Edition. 

With 34 Illustrations and Portrait of 
the Author. Crown 8vo. Cloth extra, 
price ns. 6d. 

A Cheaper Edition, with Frontis- 
piece. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
3*. 6d, 



A List of 



BURCKHARDT (Jacob). 

The Civilization of the Pe- 
riod of the Renaissance in Italy. 
Authorized translation, by S. G. C. 
Middlemore. a vols. D'.my 8vo. 
Cloth, price a+r. 

BURTON (Mrs. Richard). 

The Inner Life of Syria, 
Palestine, and the Holy Land. 
With Maps, Photographs, and 
Coloured Plates, a vols. Second 
Edition. Demy8va Cloth, price 24s. 

* # * Also a Cheaper Edition in 
one volume. Large post 8vo. Cloth, 
price 10*. 6d. 

BURTON (Capt. Richard P.). 

The Gold Mines of Midian 
and the Rained Midianite 
Cities. A Fortnight's Tour in 
North Western Arabia. With nu- 
merous Illustrations. Second Edi- 
tion. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 18*. 

The Land of Midian Re- 
visited. With numerous illustra- 
tions on wood and by Chromo- 
lithography. 3 vols. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 32*. 

BUSBECQ (Ogier Ghiselin de). 

His Life and Letters. By 
Charles Thornton Forster, M.D. 
and F. H. Blackburne Daniell, M.D. 
2 vols. With Frontispieces. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 24$. 

BUTLER (Alfred J.). 
Amaranth and Asphodel. 

Songs from the Greek Anthology. — 

I. Songs of the Love of Women. 

II. Songs of the Love of Nature. 

III. Songs of Death. IV. Songs of 
Hereafter. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 2S. 

CALDERON. 
Calderon's Dramas : The 

Wonder- Working Magician — Life is 
a Dream — The Purgatory of St. 
Patrick. Translated by Denis 
- Florence MacCarthy. Post 8vo. 
Cloth, price zor. 

CANDLER (H.). 
The Groundwork of Belief. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 



CARPENTER (W. B.), M.D. 
The Principles of Mental 

Physiology. With their Applica- 
tions to the Training and Discipline 
of the Mind, and the Study of its 
Morbid Conditions. Illustrated. 
Fifth Edition. 8vo. Cloth, price la*. 

CARPENTER (Dr. Philip P.). 
His Life and Work. Edited 

by his brother, Russell Lant Car- 
penter. With portrait and vignette. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 7*. 6d. 

CAVALRY OFFICER. 

Notes on Cavalry Tactics, 
Organisation, Ac. With Dia- 
grams Demy8vo. Cloth, price xa*. 

CERVANTES. 
The Ingenious Knight Don 

?uixote de la Mancha. A New 
ranslation from the Originals of 
1605 and 1608. By A. J. Duffield. 
With Notes. 3 vols, demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 42s. 

CHAPMAN (Hon. Mrs. E. W.). 
A Constant Heart. A Story, 
a vols. Cloth, gilt tops, price xar. 

CHEYNE(Rev.T. K.). 
The Prophecies of Isaiah. 

Translated, with Critical Notes and 
Dissertations by. Two vols., demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 25J. 

Children's Toys, and some 

Elementary Lessons in General 
Knowledge which they teach. Illus- 
trated. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

Clairaut's Elements of 

Geometry. Translated by Dr. 
Kaines^ with 145 figures. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 4s. 6d. 

CLARKE (Mary Cowden). 
Honey from the Weed. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 

CLAYDEN (P. W.). 
England under Lord Bea- 
consfield. The Political History of 
the Last Six Years, from the end of 
1873 to the beginning of 1880. Se- 
cond Edition. With Index, and 
Continuation to March, 1880. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price its. 



Kcgan Paul, Trench, 6* Co.'s Publications, 



CLERY(C), Lieut. -Col. 
Minor Tactics. With 26 
Maps and Plans. Fifth and Revised 
Edition. Demy8vo. Cloth, price \6s. 

CLODD (Edward), P.R.A.S. 
The Childhood of the 
World : a Simple Account of Man 
in Early Times. Sixth Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 

A Special Edition for Schools. 
Price is. 

The Childhood of Reli- 
gions. Including a Simple Account 
of the Birth and Growth of Myths 
and Legends. Third Thousand. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

A Special Edition for Schools. 
Price is. 6d. 

Jesus of Nazareth. With a 

brief Sketch of Jewish History to 
the Time of His Birth. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

COGHLAN (J- Cole), D.D. 
The Modern Pharisee and 
other Sermons. Edited by the 
Very Rev. A. H. Dickinson, D.D., 
Dean of Chapel Royal, Dublin. New 
and cheaper edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price js. 6d. 

COLERIDGE (Sara). 
Pretty Lessons in Verse 
for Good Children, with some 
Lessons in Latin, in Easy Rhyme. 
A New Edition. Illustrated. Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

Phantasmion. A Fairy Tale. 

With an Introductory Preface by the 
Right Hon. Lord Coleridge, of 
Ottery St. Mary. A New Edition. 
Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price js. 6d. 

Memoir and Letters of Sara 

Coleridge. Edited by her Daughter. 
Cheap Edition. With one Portrait. 
Cloth, price 71. 6d. 
COLLINS (Mortimer). 
The Secret of Long Life. 

Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. 

Inn of Strange Meetings, 
and other Poems. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 5*. 

CONNELL (A. K.). 
Discontent and Danger in 
India. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3$. 6d. 



COOKE (Prof. J. P.) 
Scientific Culture. Crown 

8vo. Cloth, price zx. 
COOPER (H. T.). 

The Art of Furnishing on 
Rational and Esthetic Prin- 
ciples. New and Cheaper Edition. 
Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price is. 6d. 

COPPE^ (Francois). 
L'Exilee. Done into English 
Verse with the sanction of the Author 
by I. O. L. Crown 8vo. Vellum, 
price 5s. 

CORPIELD (Prof.), M.D. 
Health. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 

price 6s. 

CORY (Col. Arthur). 
The Eastern Menace. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 6d. 
CORY (William). 
A Guide to Modern Eng- 
lish History. Part I. MDCCCXV. 
— MDCCCXXX. Demy 8vo. Cloth, 
price qs. 

COURTNEY (W. L.). 
The Metaphysics of John 
Stuart Mill. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 5s. 6d. 

COX (Rev. Sir Q. W.), Bart. 
A History of Greece from 
the Earliest Period to the end of the 
Persian War. New Edition, a vols. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 36*. 

A General History of Greece 

from the Earliest Period to the Death 
of Alexander the Great, with a sketch 
of the subsequent History to the 
present time. New Edition. Crown. 
8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. 

Tales of Ancient Greece. 
New Edition. Small crown 8vo 
Cloth, price 6s. 

School History of Greece. 

With Maps. New Edition. Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

The Great Persian W*r 

from the Histories of Herodotus. 
New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. 6d, 

A Manual of Mythology 

in the form of Question and Answer 
New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. 



8 



A List of 



COX (Rev. Sir G. W.), Bart.— 
continued. 

An Introduction to the 
Science of Comparative My- 
thology and Folk-Lore. Large 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price gs. 

COX (Rev. Sir G. W.), Bart., 
M.A., and EUSTACE H1N- 
TON JONES. 

Popular Romances of the 

Middle Ages. Second Edition in 
one volume. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price dr. 

COX (Rev. Samuel). 
A Commentary on the Book 

of Job. With a Translation. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 15*. 

Salvator Mundi ; or, Is 

Christ the Saviour of all Men? Sixth 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

The Genesis of Evil, and 

other Sermons, mainly Expository. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

CRAUFURD(A. H.). 
Seeking for Light : Sermons. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

CRAVEN (Mrs.). 
A Year's Meditations. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

CRAWFURD (Oswald). 
Portugal, Old and New. 

With Illustrations and Maps. New 
and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 6s. 

CRESSWELL (Mrs. O.). 
The King's Banner. Drama 
in Four Acts. Five Illustrations. 
4to. Cloth, price xo*. 6a\ 

CROZIER (John Beattie), M.B. 
The Religion of the Future. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

Cyclopaedia of Common 

Things. Edited by the Rev. Sir 
Gsorgb W. Cox, Bart., M.A. 
With 500 Illustrations. Large post 
8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 6d. 

DALTON (John Neale), M.A., 
R.N. 
Sermons to Naval Cadets. 

Preached on board H.M.S. "Bri- 
tannia." Second Edition. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6a. 



D'ANVERS (N. R.). 

Parted. A Tale of Clouds 
and Sunshine. With 4 Illustrations. 
Extra Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

Little Minnie's Troubles. 

An E very-day Chronicle. With Four 
Illustrations by W. H. Hughes. 
Fcap. Cloth, price 31. 6a\ 

Pixie 1 8 Adventures ; or, the 

Tale of a Terrier. With sz Illustra- 
tions. x6ma Cloth, price 4s. 6d. 

Nanny's Adventures; or, 

the Tale of a Goat. With 1a Illus- 
trations. i6mo. Cloth, price 41. 6d. 

DAVIDSON (Rev. Samuel), D.D., 
LL.D. 

The New Testament, trans- 
lated from the Latest Greek 
Text of Teschendorf. A New and 
thoroughly Revised Edition. Post 
8vo. Cloth, price zor. td. 

Canon of the Bible : Its 

Formation, History, and Fluctua- 
tions. Third Edition, revised and 
enlarged. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 5*. 

DAVIES (G. Christopher). 

Rambles and Adventures 
of Our School Field Club. With 
Four Illustrations. New and Cheaper 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
3*. 6d. 

DAVIES (Rev. J. L.), M.A. 
Theology and Morality. 

Essays on Questions of Belief and 
Practice. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
7s. td. 

DAVIES (T. Hart.). 

Catullus. Translated into 
English Verse. Crown 8vo. Cloth* 
price 6;. 

DAWSON (George), M.A. 
The Authentic Gospel. A 

New Volume of Sermons. Edited 
by George St. Clair. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 6s. 

Prayers, with a Discourse 

on Prayer. Edited by his Wife. 
Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 6s. 



Ktgan Paul, Trench, 6- Co.'s Publications. 



DAWSON (George), M.A.— con- 
tinued. 

Sermons on Disputed 
Points and Special Occasions. 
Edited by his Wife. Third Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

Sermons on Daily Life and 
Duty. Edited by his Wife. Third 
Edition. Crown 8 vo. Cloth, price ox. 

DE L'HOSTE (Col. E. P.). 
The Desert Pastor, Jean 
Jarousseau. Translated from the 
French of Eugene Pelletan. With a 
Frontispiece. New Edition. Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

DE REDCLIFFE (Viscount 
Stratford), P.C., K.G., G.C.B. 

Why am I a Christian ? 
Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. 

DESPREZ (Philip S.). 
Daniel and John; or, the 
Apocalypse of the Old and that of 
the New Testament. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price m. 

DE TOCQUEVILLE (A.). 
Correspondence and Con- 
versations of, with Nassau Wil- 
liam Senior, from 1834 to 1859. 
Edited by M. C. M. Simpson a 
vols. Post 8vo. Cloth, price ai«. 

DE VERE (Aubrey). 
Legends of the Saxon 
Saints. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price dr. 

Alexander the Great. A 
Dramatic Poem. Small crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 5*. 

The Infant Bridal, and 
other Poems. A New and En- 
larged Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, 
price js. 6d. 

The Legends of St. Patrick, 
and other Poems. Small crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

St. Thomas of Canterbury. 

A Dramatic Poem. Large fcap. 8vo. 
Cloth, price 5*. 

Antar and Zara : an Eastern 
Romance. Inispail, and other 
Poems, Meditative and Lyrical. 
Fcap. 8vo. Price 6s. 



DE VERE ( Aubrey)- continued. 

The Fall of Rora, the 
Search after Proserpine, and 

other Poems, Meditative and Lyrical. 
Fcap. 8vo. Price 6*. 

DOBELL (Mrs. Horace). 
Ethelstone, Eveline, and 
other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

DOBSON (Austin). 

Vignettes in Rhyme and 
Vers de Socie*te*. Third Edition. 
Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

Proverbs in Porcelain. By 

the Author of" Vignettes in Rhyme." 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

Dorothy. A Country Story 
in Elegiac Verse. With Preface. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

DOW DEN (Edward), LL.D. 

Shakspere: a Critical Study 
of his Mind and Art. Fifth Edition. 
Large post 8vo. Cloth, price iu. 

Studies in Literature, 1789- 

1877. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 1 a*. 

Poems. Second Edition. 
Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. 

DOWNTON (Rev. H.), M.A. 

Hymns and Verses. Ori- 
ginal and Translated. Small crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

DREWRY (G. O.), M.D. 

The Common-Sense 
Management of the Stomach. 
Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, 
price 2s. 6d. 

DREWRY (Q. O.), M.D., and 
BARTLETT (H. C), Ph.D., 
F.C.S. 

Cup and Platter : or, Notes 

on Food and its Effects. New and 
cheaper Edition. Small 8vo. Cloth 
price is. 6d. 

DRUMMOND (Mias). 

Tripps Buildings. A Study 
trom Life, with Frontispiece. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 64. 

A 2 



IO 



A List of 



DUPFIELD(A.J.). 

Don Quixote. His Critics 

and Commentators. With a Brief 
Account of the Minor Works of Mi- 
guel de Cervantes Saavedra, and a 
statement of the end and aim of the 
greatest of them all. A Handy Book 
for General Readers. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 3*. td. 

DU MONCEL (Count). 
The Telephone, the Micro- 
phone, and the Phonograph. 
With 74 Illustrations. Small crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

DUTT (Toru). 
A Sheaf Gleaned in French 

Fields. New Edition, with Portrait. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price xos. td. 

DU VERNOIS (Col. von Verdy). 
Studies in leading Troops. 

An authorized and accurate Trans- 
lation by Lieutenant H. T. T. 
Hildyard, 71st Foot. Parts I. and 
II. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 

BDEN (Frederick). 
The Nile without a 
Dragoman. Second Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. td. 

EDOEWORTH (F. Y.). 
Mathematical Psychics: an 

Essay on the Application of Mathe- 
matics to Social Science. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 7*. td. 

EDIS (Robert W.). 
Decoration and Furniture 

of Town Houses. A series of 
Cantor Lectures delivered before the 
Society of Arts, 1880. Amplified 
and enlarged, with 29 full-page Illus- 
trations and numerous sketches. 
Second Edition. Square 8vo. Cloth, 
price zar. td. 

EDMONDS (Herbert). 
Well Spent Lives : a Series 

of Modern Biographies. New and 
Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 
3*. td. 

Educational Code of the 
Prussian Nation, in its Present 
Form. In accordance with the 
Decisions of the Common Provincial 
Law, and with those of Recent 
Legislation. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price as. td. 



THE EDUCATION LIBRARY . 
(Edited by Philip Magnus). 
An introduction to the 
History of Educational Theo- 
ries. By Oscar Browning, M.A. 
Cloth, price 3*. td. 
John Amos Comenius : his 
Life and Educational Work. By 
Prof. S. S. Laurie, A.M. Cloth, 
price 2 s ' 6d. 

Old Greek Education. By 

the Rev. Prof. Mahaffy, M.A. 
Cloth, price 3*. td. 

EDWARDS (Rev. Basil). 
Minor Chords; or, Songs 
for the Suffering: a Volume of 
Verse. Fcap. 8%ro. Cloth, price 
3*. td. ; paper, price at. td. 

ELLIOT (Lady Charlotte). 

Medusa and other Poems. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price ts. 

ELLIOTT (Ebenezer), The Corn 
Law Rhymer. 

Poems. Edited by his Son, 
the Rev. Edwin Elliott, of St. John's, 
Antigua, a vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 1 8 j. 

ELSDALE (Henry). 
Studies in Tennyson's 

Idylls. Crown 8 vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

ELYOT (Sir Thomas). 
The Boke named the Go- 
uernour. Edited from the First Edi- 
tion of 1531 by Henry Herbert Ste- 

, phen Croft, M.A., Barrister-at-Law. 
With Portraits of Sir Thomas and 
Lady EJyot, copied by permission of 
her Majesty from Holbein's Original 
Drawings at Windsor Castle. 2 vols, 
fcap. 4to. Cloth, price 50*. 

Epic of Hades (The). 
By the author of " Songs of Two 
Worlds." Twelfth Edition. Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, price js. td. 
%* Also an Illustrated Edition with 
seventeen full-page designs in photo- 
mezzotint by George R. Chapman. 
4to. Cloth, extra gilt leaves, price 25?, 
and a Large Paper Edition, with 
portrait, price 10s. td. 

EVANS (Anne). 
Poems and Music. With 

Memorial Preface by Ann Thackeray 
Ritchie. Large crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 7*. td. 



Ktgan Paul, Trench, &• Co.'s Publications. 



EVANS (Mark). 
The Gospel of Home Life. 
Crown gvo. Cloth, price 4/. W. 
The Story of our Father's 

" ' i Children. ™ 

f- 

plica a. id. 

A Book of Common Prayer 



Edition, Fcap. Hvo. Cloth, price ii. 
The King's Story Book. 
In three parts. Fop. Svo. Cloth, 

VPafn L and II., with eight illus- 
trations and two Picture Maps, now 

EX-CIVILIAN. 
Life in the Mofussil; or, 
Civilian Life in Lower Bengal s 
vols. Large post gvo. Price 14* 

FARQ U H ARSON (M.J. 

I. Elsie Dinsmore. Crown 
gvo. Cloth, price 31. 6d 

II. Elsie's Girlhood. Crown 
gvo. Cloth, price jr. «. 

III. Elsie's Holidays at 
Roselands. Crown Svo. 

Cloth, price 31. td. 
FBLKIN <H. M). 

Technical Education in a 

Shod Town. Published for the 
City and Guilds of London Institute 
for the Advancement of Technical 
Education. Demy Svo. Cloth, price 

FIELD (Horace), B.A. Land. 
The Ultimate Triumph of 
Christianity. Small crown Svo. 
Cloth, price jr. 6* 

FINN (the late Jams*), M.R.A.S. 
Stirring Times; or. Records 
from Jerusalem Consular Chronicles 
af 1853 to 1856. Edited and Com- 
piled by hit Widow. With a Preface 

3 vols. Demy Svo. Price joj. 
FLO RED ICE (W. H.}. 
A Month among the Mere 



Folkestone Ritual Case 
(The). The Argument, Proceedings 

the several Counsel engaged. Demy 
gvo. Cloth, price 151- 
FORMBY (Rev. Henry). 
Ancient Rome and its Con- 
nection with the Christian Re- 
ligion: an Outline of the History of 




FOWLE(Rew 
The Reconciliation of Re- 
ligion and Science. BeingEuays 
on Immortality, Inspiration, Mira- 
cles, and the Being of Christ. Demy 
Svo. Cloth, price 10.. td 
The Divine Legation of 
Christ. CrownSvo. Cloth, price 71. 

f RAKER (Donald). 
Exchange Tables of Ster- 
ling and Indian Rupee Cur- 
rency , upon a new and extended jys- 

Farthing toOM Hundred Thousand 
Founds, and at Rales progressing, in 

21. w/. per Ranee. Royal Svo. 
Cloth, price .or. Id. 
FRISWELL (J. Hain). 
The Better Self. Essays for 
Home Life. Crown gvo. Cloth, 



; or, A Left- 

Cloth, price jr. 64 


amuel R.) and J 



t (Ban 

BASS MULLINQER, M.A 
Introduction to the Study 

Cloth, price cj. 

! (J), M.D- 

Longevity: The Means of 

Prolonging Life after Middle 

Age. Fourth Edition, Revised and 

17..,....-.., C....1, .._ Ctafc| 



Enlarged. Small en 



12 



A List of 



GARRETT (E.). 
By Still Waters. A Story 
for Quiet Hours. With Seven Illus- 
trations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

GEBLER (Karl Von). 
Galileo Galilei and the 
Roman Curia, from Authentic 
Sources. Translated with the sanc- 
tion of the Author, by Mrs. Georgb 
Sturge. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. 

GEDDES (James). 
HistOTy ot the Administra- 
tion of John de Witt, Grand Pen- 
sionary of Holland. Vol. 1. 1623— 
1654. Demy 8vo., with Portrait. 
Cloth, price 15$. 

GENNA(E.) 
Irresponsible Philanthro- 
pists. Being some Chaptets on the 
Employment of Gentlewomen. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price as. bd. 

GEORGE (Henry). 
Progress and Poverty. An 

Inquiry into the Cause of Industrial 
Depressions and of Increase of Want 
w-th Increase of Wealth. The Re- 
medy. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 7$. bd. 

GILBERT (Mrs.). 
Autobiography and other 
Memorials. Edited by Josiah 
Gilbert. Third Edition. With Por- 
trait and several Wood Engravings. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. bd. 

GLOVER (F.), M.A. 
Exempla Latina. A First 
Construing Book with Short Notes, 
Lexicon, and an Introduction to the 
Analysis of Sentences. Fcap. 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2s. 

GODWIN (William;. 
William Godwin: His 
Friends and Contemporaries. 
With Portraits and Facsimiles of the 
handwriting of Godwin and his Wife. 
by C. Kegan Paul. 2 vols. Demy 
£vo Cloth, price 28$. 

The Genius of Christianity 
Unveiled. Being Essays never 
before published. Edited, with a 
Pretace, by C. Kegan Paul. Crown 
8vo Cloth, price 7*. bd. 



GOETZE (Capt. A. von). 
Operations of the German 
Engineers during the War of 
1870-1871. Published by Authority, 
and in accordance with Official Docu- 
ments. Translated from the German 
by Colonel G. Graham, V.C., C.B., 
R.E. With 6 large Maps. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 21;. 

GOLDSMID(Sir Francis Henry). 
Memoir of. With Portrait. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. 

QOODENOUGH (Commodore J. 
G.), R.N..C.B., C.M.G. 

Memoir of, with Extracts from 
his Letters and Journals. Edited by 
his Widow. With Steel Engraved 
Portrait. Square 8vo. Cloth, 5s. 

* # * Also a Library Edition with 
Maps, Woodcuts, and Steel En- 
graved Portrait. Square post 8vo. 
Cloth, price 14s 

GOSSE (Edmund W.). 
Studies in the Literature of 

Northern Europe. WithaFrontis- 

?iece designed and etched by Alma 
adema. Large post 8vo. Cloth, 
price 1 2 s. 



New Poems. 

Cloth, price 7s. bd. 



Crown 8vo. 



GOULD (Rev. S. Baring), M.A. 
Germany, Present and Past. 

New and Cheaper Edition. Large 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7$. bd. 

The Vicar of Morwenstow: 

a Memoir of the Rev. R. S. Hawker. 
With Portrait. Third Edition, re- 
vised. Square post 8 vo. Cloth, 10*. bd. 

GRAHAM (William), M.A. 
The Creed of Science : Re- 
ligious, Moral, and Social. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 12$. 

GRIFFITH (Thomas), A.M. 
The Gospel of the Divine 

Life. A Study of the Fourth Evan- 
gelist. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 14s. 

GRIMLEY (Rev. H. N.), M.A. 
Tremadoc Sermons, chiefly 
on the Spiritual Body, the Unseen 
World, and the Divine Humanity. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 



Kegan Paul, Trench, &» Co.'s Publications. 13 



GRUNER(M. L.). 
Studies of Blast Furnace 
Phenomena. Translated by L. D. 
B. Gordon, F.R.S.E., F.G.S. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. 

QURNEY (Rev. Archer). 
Words of Faith and Cheer. 

A Mission of Instruction and Sugges- 
tion. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 6s. 

Gwen : A Drama in Mono- 
logue. By the Author of the " Epic 
of Hades." Third Edition. Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

HAECKEL (Prof. Ernst). 
The History of Creation. 

Translation revised by Professor E. 
Ray Lankester, M.A., F.R.S. With 
Coloured Plates and Genealogical 
Trees of the various groups of both 
plants and animals. 2 vols. Second 
Edition. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 32*. 

The History of the Evolu- 
tion of Man. With numerous Il- 
lustrations. 2 vols. Large post 8vo. 
Cloth, price 32*. 

Freedom in Science and 

Teaching. From the German of 
Ernst Haeckel, with a Prefatory 
Note by T. H. Huxley, F.R.S. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

HALF-CROWN SERIES. 
Sister Dora: a Biography. 
By Margaret Lonsdale. 

True Words for Brave Men. 
A Book for Soldiers and Sailors. By 
the late Charles Kingsley. 

An Inland Voyage. By R. 

L. Stevenson. 

Travels with a Donkey. By 
R. L. Stevenson. 

A Nook in the Apennines. 

By Leader Scott. 

Notes of Travel. Being 
Extracts from the Journals of Count 
Von Moltke. 

Letters from Russia. By 

Count Von Moltke. 

English Sonnets. Collected 
and Arranged by J. Dennis. 

Lyrics of Love from Shake- 
speare to Tennyson. Selected 
and Arranged by W. D. Adams. 

London Lyrics. By Frede- 
rick Locker. 



HALF-CROWN SERIES-c*»- 
tinued. 

Home Songs for Quiet 

Hours. By the Rev. Canon R. H. 
Baynes. 

Halleck's International 

Law; or, Rules Regulating the 
Intercourse of States in Peace and 
War. A New Edition, revised, with 
Notes and Cases. By Sir Sherston 
Baker, Bart. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 38$. 

HARDY (Thomas). 
A Pair of Blue Eyes. New 
Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 6* . 

The Return of the Native. 

New Edition. With _ Frontispiece. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

HARRISON (Lieut. -Col. R.). 
The Officer's Memoran- 
dum Book for Peace and War. 

Third Edition. Oblong 32mo. roan, 
with pencil, price 3*. 6d. 

HARTINGTON (The Right Hon. 
the Marquis of), M.P. 
Election Speeches in 1879 
and 1880. With Address to the 
Electors of North-East Lancashire. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. 

HAWEIS (Rev. H. R.), M.A. 
Arrows in the Air. Crown 

8vo. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. 
Cloth, price 5*. 

Current Coin. Materialism — 
The Devil— Crime — Drunkenness — 
Pauperism — Emotion — Recreation — 
The Sabbath. Fourth and Cheaper 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
5*. 

Speech in Season. Fifth 

and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 5*. 

Thoughts for the Times. 

Twelfth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

Unsectarian Family 

Prayers. New and Cheaper Edition. 
Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price is. 6d. 

HAWKER (Robert Stephen). 
The Poetical Works of. 
Now first collected and arranged 
with a prefatory notice by J. G. 
Godwin. With Portrait. Crown 8vo. 
* Cloth, price 12*. 



14 



A List of 



HAWKINS (Edwards Comer- 
ford). 
Spirit and Form. Sermons 

preached in the parish church of 
Leatherhead. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price bs. 

HAYES (A. H.). 
New Colorado and the 
Santa Fe* Trail. With map and 
60 Illustrations. Crown 8 vo. Cloth, 
price gs. 

HEIDENHAIN (Rudolf), M.D. 
Animal Magnetism. Physi- 
ological Observations. Translated 
from the Fourth German Edition, 
by L. C. Wooldridge. With a Pre- 
face by G. R. Romanes, F.R.S. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2$. 6d. 

HELLON(H.G-). 
Daphnis. A Pastoral Poem. 
Small crown 8vo. Cloth. 

HELLWALD (Baron F. von). 
The Russians in Central 
Asia. A Critical Examination, 
down to the present time, of the 
Geography and History of Central 
Asia. Translated by Lieut. -Col. 
Theodore Wirgman, LL.B. Large 
post 8vo. With Map. Cloth, 
price 12s. 

HELVIG (Major H.). 
The Operations of the Ba- 
varian Army Corps. Translated 
by Captain G. S. Schwabe. With 
Five large Maps. In 2 vols. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 24*. 

Tactical Examples : Vol. I. 

The Battalion, price 15*. Vol. II. The 
Regiment and Brigade, price 10*. 6d. 
Translated from the German by Col. 
Sir Lumley Graham. With numerous 
Diagrams. Demy 8vo. Cloth. 

HERFORD (Brooke). 
The Story of Religion in 

England. A Book for Young Folk. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

HICKEY(E. H.). 
A Sculptor and other 
Poems. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price s*. 



HINTON (James). 
Life and Letters of. Edited 

by Ellice Hopkins, with an Introduc- 
tion by Sir W. W. Gull, Bart., and 
Portrait engraved on Steel by C. H. 
Jeens. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, &r. bd. 

Chapters on the Art of 
Thinking, and other Essays. 
With an Introduction by Shadworth 
Hodgson. Edited by C. H. Hinton. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price Zs. 6d. 

The Place of the Physician. 

To which is added Essays on the 
Law op Human Life, and on thb 
Relation between Organic and 
Inorganic Worlds. Second Edi- 
tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. td. 

Physiology for Practical 

Use. By various Writers. With to 
Illustrations. Third and cheaper edi- 
tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

An Atlas of Diseases of the 

Membrana Tympani. With De- 
scriptive Text. Post8vo. Price £6 6s. 

The Questions of Aural 

Surgery. With Illustrations. 3 vols. 
Post 8vo. Cloth, price iu. (xL 

The Mystery of Pain. 
New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth 
limp, if. 

HOCKLEY (W. B). 
Tales of the Zenana; or, 

A Nuwab's Leisure Hours. By the 
Author of " Pandurang Hari." With 
a Preface by Lord Stanley of Alder- 
ley. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 2if. 

Pandurang Hari; or, Me- 
moirs of a Hindoo. A Tale of 
Mahratta Life sixty years ago. With 
a Preface by Sir H. Bartle E. 
Frere, G. C. S. I., &c New and 

. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price dr. 

HOFFBAUER (Capt.). 

The German Artillery in 
the Battles near Metz. Based 
on the -official reports of the German 
Artillery. Translated by Capt. E. 
O. Hollist With Map and Plans. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price six. 

HOLMES. (E. G. A.). 
Poems. First and Second Se- 
ries. Fcap.8vo. Cloth, prices*, each. 



Kegan Paul, Trench, <5r» Co.'s Publications. 



iS 



HOOPER (Mary). 
Little Dinners: How to 
Serve them with Elegance and 
Economy. Thirteenth Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

Cookery for Invalids, Per- 
sona of Delicate Digestion, and 
Children. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 

Every -Day Meals. Being 

Economical and Wholesome Recipes 
for Breakfast, Luncheon, and Sup- 
per. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price ss. 

HOOPER (Mrs. Q.). 
The House of Raby. With 
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3s. 6d. 

HORNER (The Misses). 
Walks in Florence. A New 

and thoroughly Revised Edition. a a 
vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth limp. With 
Illustrations. 

Vol. I. — Churches, Streets, and 
Palaces, ios. 6d. Vol. II. — Public 
Galleries and Museums. 5*. 

Household Readings on 

Prophecy. By a Layman. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. 

HUGHES (Henry). 
The Redemption of the 
World. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
3*. 6d. 

HULL (Edmund C. P.). 
The European in India. 
With a Medical Guide for Anglo- 
Indians. By R. R. S. Mair, M.D., 
F. R. C. S. E. Third Edition, Revised 
and Corrected. Post 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

HUTCHISON (Lieut.-Col. P. J.), 
and Capt.O. H. MACGREGOR. 

Military Sketching and Re- 
connaissance. With Fifteen Plates. 
Second edition. Small 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

The first Volume of Military Hand- 
books for Regimental Officers. Edited 
by Lieut.-Col. C. B. Brackbnbuhy, 

HUTTON (Arthur), M.A. 
The Anglican Ministry. Its 

Nature and Value in relation to the 
Catholic Priesthood. With a Pre- 
face by his Eminence Cardinal New- 
man. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 14J. 



INCHBOLDQ.W.). 
Annus Amoris. Sonnets. 
Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 4*. 6d. 

INGELOW (Jean). 
Off the Skelligs. A Novel. 
With Frontispiece. Second Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

The Little Wonder-horn. 

A Second Series of " Stories Told to 
a Child." With Fifteen Illustrations. 
Small 8vo. Cloth, price as. 6d. 

International Scientific 
Series (The). Each book 
complete in one Volume. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 5*. each, excepting 
those marked otherwise. 

I. Forms of Water : A Fami- 
liar Exposition of the Origin and 
Phenomena of Glaciers. By J. 
TvndaU, LL.D., F.R.S. With 25 
Illustrations. Eighth Edition. 

II. Physics and Politics ; or, 
Thoughts on the Application of the 
Principles of " Natural Selection" 
and "Inheritance" to Political So 
ciety. By Walter Bagehot Fifth 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4*. 

III. Foods. By Edward Smith, 
M.D., &c. With numerous Illus 
trations. Seventh Edition. 

IV. Mind and Body: The Theo- 
ries of their Relation. By Alexander 
Bain, LL.D. With Four Illustra- 
tions. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 4*. 

V. The Study of Sociology. 
By Herbert Spencer. Tenth Edition. 

VI. On the Conservation of 
Energy. By Balfour Stewart, 
LL.D., &c. With 14 Illustrations. 
Fifth Edition. 

VII. Animal Locomotion ; < or, 
Walking, Swimming, and Flying. 
By J. B. Pettigrew, M.D., &c. With 
130 Illustrations. Second Edition.. 

VIII. Responsibility in Mental 
Disease. By Henry Maudsley, 
M.D. Third Edition. 

IX. The New Chemistry. By 
Professor J. P. Cooke. With 31 Illus- 
trations. Fifth Edition. 

X. The Science of Law. By 
Prof. Sheldon Amos. Fourth Edition. 



i6 



A List of 



International Scientific 
Series (The) — continued. 

XI. Animal Mechanism. A 
Treatise on Terrestrial and Aerial 
Locomotion. By Prof. E. J. Marey. 
With 117 Illustrations. Second 
Edition. 

XII. The Doctrine of Descent 
and Darwinism. By Prof. Osca 
Schmidt. With 26 Illustrations. 
Fourth Edition. 

XIII. The History of the Con- 
flict between Religion and Sci- 
ence. Bv J. W. Draper, M.D., 
LL.D. Fifteenth Edition. 

XIV. Fungi ; their Nature, In- 
fluences, Uses, &c. By M. C. 
Cooke, LL.D. Edited by the Rev. 
M.J. Berkeley, F.L.S. With nume- 
rous Illustrations. Second Edition. 

XV. The Chemical Effects of 
Light and Photography. By Dr. 
Hermann Vogel. With 100 Illustra- 
tions. Third and Revised Edition. 

XVI. The Life and Growth of 
Language. By Prof. William 
Dwight Whitney. Third Edition. 

XVII. Money and the Mecha- 
nism of Exchange. By W. Stan- 
ley Jevons, F.R.S. Fourth Edition. 

XVIII. The Nature of Light : 
With a General Account of Physical 
Optics. By Dr. Eugene Lommel. 
With 188 Illustrations and a table of 
Spectra in Chromo - lithography. 
Third Edition. 

XIX. Animal Parasites and 

Messmates. By M. Van Beneden. 
With 83 Illustrations. Second Edi- 
tion. 

XX. Fermentation. By Prof. 
Schutzenberger. With 28 Illustra- 
tions. Third Edition. 

XXI. The Five Senses of Man. 
By Prof. Bernstein. With 91 Illus- 
trations. Second Edition. 

XXII. The Theory of Sound in 
its Relation to Music. By Prof. 
Pietro Blaserna. With numerous 
Illustrations. Second Edition. 

XXIII. Studies in Spectrum 
Analysis. By J. Norman Lockyer. 
F.R.S. With six photographic Il- 
lustrations of Spectra, and numerous 
engravings on wood. Crown 8vo. 
Second Edition. 6s. 6d. 



International Scientific 
Series ( The) — continued. 

XXIV. A History of the Growth 
of the Steam Engine. By Prof. 
R. H. Thurston. With numerous 
Illustrations. Second Edition. bs.&d. 

XXV. Education as a Science. 
By Alexander Bain, LL.D. Third 
Edition. 

XXVI. The Human Species. 
By Prof. A. de Quatrefages. Third 
Edition. 

XXVII. Modern Chromatics. 
With Applications to Art and Indus- 
try, by Ogden N. Rood. With 130 
original Illustrations. Second Edi- 
tion. 

XXVIII. The Crayfish : an Intro- 
duction to the Study of Zoology. By 
Prof. T. H. Huxley. With eighty- 
two Illustrations. Third edition. 

XXIX. The Brain as an Organ 
of Mind. By H. Charlton Bastian, 
M.D. With numerous Illustrations. 
Second Edition. 

XXX. The Atomic Theory. By 
Prof. Ad. Wurtz. Translated by 
E. Clemin-Shaw. Second Edition. 

XXXI. The Natural Conditions 
of Existence as they affect Ani- 
mal Life. By Karl Semper. Second 
Edition. 

XXXII. General Physiology of 
Muscles and Nerves. By Prof. 
J. Rosenthal. With Illustrations. 
Second Edition. 

XXXIII. Sight: an Exposition 
of the Principles of Monocular 
and Binocular Vision. By Joseph 
Le Conte, LL.D. With 132 illustra- 
tions. 

XXXIV. Illusions: A Psycho- 
logical Study. By James Sully. 

XXXV. Volcanoes: What they 
and What they Teach. By 



are 



With 



92 



Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S 
Illustrations on Wood. 

XXXVI. Suicide. An Essay in 
Comparative Mythology. By Prof. 
E. Morselli, with Diagrams. 

XXXVII. The Brain and its 
Functions. By J. Luys. With 
numerous illustrations. 

JENKINS (E.) and RAYMOND 

(J-)- 

The Architect's Legal 

Handbook. Third Edition Re- 
vised. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6*. 



Kegan Paul, Trench, &» Co.'s Publications. 17 



JENKINS (Rev. R. C), M.A. 
The Privilege of Peter and 

the Claims of the Roman Church 
confronted with the Scriptures, the 
Councils, and the Testimony of the 
Popes themselves. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3s. 6d. 

JENNINGS (Mrs. Vaughan). 
Rahel : Her Life and Let- 
ters. With a Portrait from the 
Painting by Daffinger. Square post 
8vo. Cloth, price 7* . 6d. 

JOEL (L.). 
A Consul's Manual and 

Shipowner's and Shipmaster's Prac- 
tical Guide in their Transactions 
Abroad . With Definitions of Nauti- 
cal, Mercantile, and Legal Terms ; 
a Glossary of Mercantile Terms in 
English, French, German, Italian, 
and Spanish. Tables of the Money, 
Weights, and Measures of the Prin- 
cipal^ Commercial Nations and their 
Equivalents in British Standards ; 
and Forms of Consular and Notarial 
Acts. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12$. 

JOHNSON (Virginia W.). 

The Catskill Fairies. Illus- 
trated by Alfred Fredericks. Cloth, 
price 5s. 

JOHNSTONE (C. P.), M.A. 
Historical Abstracts. Being 

Outlines of the History of some of 
the less-known States of Europe. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price js. 6d. 

JONES (Lucy). 
Puddings and Sweets. Being 

Three Hundred and Sixty-Five 
Receipts approved by Experience. 
Crown 8vo., price as. 6d. 

JOYCE (P. W.), LL.D., &c. 
Old Celtic Romances. 

Translated from the Gaelic by. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 6d. 

KAUFMANN (Rev. M.), B.A. 
Utopias; or, Schemes of 
Social Improvement, from Sir 
Thomas More to Karl Marx. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

Socialism: Its Nature, its 
Dangers, and its Remedies con- 
sidered. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. 



KAY (Joseph), M.A., Q.C. 
Free Trade in Land. 
Edited by his Widow. With Preface 
by the Right Hon. John Bright, 
M. P. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 5*. 

KEMPIS (Thomas a). 
Of the Imitation of Christ. 

Parchment Library Edition, price 
dr.: vellum, price 7s. 6d.^ 
* # * A Cabinet Edition is also pub- 
lished at is. 6d. and a Miniature 
Edition at is. These may also be 
had in various extra bindings. 

KENT (Carolo). 
Corona Catholica ad Petri 
successoris Pedes Oblata. De 
Summi Pontificis Leonis XIII. As- 
sumption Epiggramma. In Quin- 
quaginta Linguis. Fcap. 4to. Cloth, 
price 155. 

KER (David). 
The Boy Slave in Bokhara. 

A Tale of Central Asia. With Illustra- 
tions. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 
The Wild Horseman of 
the Pampas. ^ Illustrated. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price y °^> 

KERNER (Dr. A.), Professor of 
Botany in the University of 
Innsbruck. 
Flowers and theirUnbidden 

Guests. Translation edited by W. 
Oglk. M.A., M.D., and a prefatory 
letter by C. Darwin, F. R. S. With Il- 
lustrations. Sq.8vo. Cloth, price 9*. 
KIDD (Joseph), M.D. 
The Laws of Therapeutics, 

or, the Science and Art of Medicine. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price dr. 

KIN AH AN (G. Henry),M.R.I.A.. 
&c, of her Majesty's Geological 
Survey. 

Manual of the Geology of 
Ireland. With 8 Plates, 26 Wood- 
cuts, and a Map of Ireland, geologi- 
cally coloured. Square 8vo. Cloth, 
price 15s. 

KING (Mrs. Hamilton). 
The Disciples. Fourth Edi- 
tion, with Portrait ^ and Notes. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 6d. 

Aspromonte, and other 

Poems. Second Edition. Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, price 4*. td. 



i8 



A List of 



KINGSFORD(Anna), M.D. 
The Perfect Way in Diet. 

A Treatise advocating a Return to 
the Natural and Ancient Food of 
Race. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 

KINGSLEY (Charles), M.A. 
Letters and Memories of 

his Life. Edited by his Wife. 
. With 2 Steel engraved Portraits and 
numerous Illustrations on Wood, and 
a Facsimile of his Handwriting. 
Thirteenth Edition. 2 vols. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 36*. 

* # * Also the eleventh Cabinet 
Edition in 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 12s. 

All Saints' Day and other 
Sermons. Second Edition. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, js. 6d. 

True Words for Brave 

Men: a Book for Soldiers' and 
Sailors' Libraries. Eighth Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price ,2*. 6d. 

KNIGHT (Professor W.). 
Studies in Philosophy and 
Literature . Large post 8 vo. Cloth, 
price 7*. 6d. 

KNOX (Alexander A.). 
The New Playground : or, 
Wanderings in Algeria. Large 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. 

LAMONT (Martha MacDonald). 
The Gladiator : A Life under 
the Roman Empire in the beginning 
of the Third Century. With four 
Illustrations by H. M. Paget. Extra 
fcaD. 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

LANG (A.). 
XXXII Ballades in Blue 

China. Elzevir. 8vo. Parchment, 
price $s. 

LAYMANN (Capt.). 
The Frontal Attack of 

Infantry. Translated by Colonel 
Edward Newdigate. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2s. 6a. 

LBANDER (Richard). 
Fantastic Stories. Trans- 
lated from the German by Paulina 
B. Granville. With Eight full-page 
Illustrations by M. E. Fraser-Tytler. 
Crown 8vo.. Cloth, price 5*. 



LEE (Rev. F. G.), D.C.L. 
The Other World; or, 

Glimpses of the Supernatural. 2 vols. 
A New Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 15*. 

LEE (Holme). 
Her Title of Honour. A 

Book for Girls. New Edition. With 
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 5*. 

LEWIS (Edward Dillon). 
A Draft Code of Criminal 
Law and Procedure. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2 if. 

LEWIS (Mary A.). 
A Rat with Three Tales. 

New and cheaper edition. With 
If our Illustrations by Catherine F. 
Frere. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

LINDSAY(W. Lauder), M.D.,&c 
Mind in the Lower Animals 
in Health and Disease. 2 vols. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 32J. 

LOCKER (F.). 
London Lyrics. A New and 

Revised Edition, with Additions and 
a Portrait of the Author. Crown 8vo« 
Cloth, elegant, price dr. Also a 
Cheap Edition, price 2s. 6d. 

LOKI. 
The New Werther. Small 

crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. 

LORIMER (Peter), D.D. 
John Knox and the Church 
of E ngland : His Work in her Pulpit, 
and his Influence upon her Liturgy, 
Articles, and Parties. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 12s. 

John Wiclif and his 

English Precursors, by Gerhard 
Victor Lechler. Translated from 
the German, with additional Notes. 
New and Cheaper Edition. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 10*. 6d. 

Love Sonnets of Proteus. 

With frontispiece by the Author. 
Elzevir 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

Lowder (Charles) : a Biogra- 

?hy. By the author of "St. Teresa." 
,arge crown 8vo. With Portrait. 
Cloth, price 7 J. 6d. 



Kegan Paul, Trench, 6* Co.'s Publications, 19 



LOWNDES (Henry). 
Poems and Translations. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

LUMSDEN (Lieut.-Col. H. W.). 
Beowulf. An Old English 
Poem. Translated into modern 
rhymes. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 5*. 

MAC CLINTOCK (L.). 
Sir Spangle and the Dingy 
Hen. Illustrated. Square crown 
8vo., price as. 6d. 

MACDONALD (Q.). 
Malcolm. With Portrait ot 
the Author engraved on Steel. Fourth 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Price dr. 

The Marquis of Lossie. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

St. George and St. Michael. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, dr. 

MACKENNA (S. J.). 

Plucky Fellows. A Book 

for Boys. With Six Illustrations. 
Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3-r. 6d. 

At School with an Old 

Dragoon. With Six Illustrations. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 5*. 

MACLACHLAN (Mrs.). 
Notes and Extracts on 
Everlasting Punishment and 
Eternal Life, according to 
Literal Interpretation. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. 

MACLEAN (Charles Donald). 
Latin and Greek Verse 
Translations. Small crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2s. 

MACNAUGHT (Rev. John). 
Ccena Domini: An Essay 
on the Lord's Supper, its Primi- 
tive Institution, Apostolic Uses, 
and Subsequent History. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 14*. 

MAGNUS (Mrs.). 
About the Jews since Bible 
Times. From the Babylonian exile 
till the English Exodus. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 



MAGNUSSON (Eirikr), M.A.. 
and PALMER (E.H.), M.A. 

Johan Ludvig Runeberg's 
Lyrical Songs, Idylls and Epi- 
grams. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5X. 

MAIR (R. S.), M.D., F.R.C.S.E. 
The Medical Guide for 
Anglo-Indians. Being a Compen- 
dium of Advice to Europeans in 
India, relating to the Preservation 
and Regulation of Health. With a 
Supplement on the Management of 
Children in India. Second Edition. 
Grown 8vo. Limp cloth, price 3*. 6d, 

MALDEN (H. E. and E. E.) 
Princes and Princesses. 

Illustrated. Small crown 8 vo. Cloth, 
price as. 6d. 

MANNING (His Eminence Car- 
dinal). 

The True Story of the 
Vatican Council. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 5*. 

MARKHAM (Capt. Albert Hast- 
ings), R.N. 

The Great Frozen Sea. A 

Personal Narrative of the Voyage of 
the " Alert " during the Arctic Ex- 
pedition of 1875-6. With six full- 
page Illustrations, two Maps, and 
twenty-seven Woodcuts. Fourth 
and cheaper edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price dr. 

A Polar Reconnaissance : 

being the Voyage of the " Isbjorn " 
to Novaya Zemlya in 1879. With 
10 Illustrations. Demy 8vo. Cloth, 
price \6s. 

Marriage and Maternity; or, 
Scripture Wives and Mothers. 
Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. 6d. 

MARTINEAU (Gertrude). 
Outline Lessons on 
Morals. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3J. 6d. 

Master Bobby : a Tale. By 

the Author of " Christina North. 
With Illustrations by E. H. Bell. 
Extra fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price $s.6d. 

MASTERMAN (J.). 

Half-a-dozen Daughters. 

With a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 3s. 6d. 



20 



A List of 



McGRATH (Terence). 
Pictures from Ireland. New 

and cheaper edition. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2X. 

MEREDITH (George). 

The Egoist. A Comedy in Nar- 
rative. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth. 

Also a Cheaper Edition, with 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, 



# » 



Frontispiece, 
price 6s. 

The Ordeal of Richard Fe- 

verel. A History of Father and Son. 
In one vol. with Frontispiece. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

MEREDITH (Owen) [the Earl 
of Lytton]. 

Lucile. With 160 Illustra- 
tions. Crown 4to. cloth extra, gilt 
leaves, price 215. 

MERRITT (Henry). 

Art - Criticism and Ro- 
mance. With Recollections, and 
Twenty- three Illustrations in eau- 
forte, by Anna Lea Merritt. Two 
vols. Large post 8vo. Cloth, 255. 

MIDDLETON (The Lady). 

Ballads. Square i6mo. Cloth, 
price 3*. 6d. 

MILLER (Edward). 
The History and Doctrines 

of Irvingism ; or, the so-called Ca- 
tholic and Apostolic Church. 2 vols. 
Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 25*. 

The Church in Relation to 

the State. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
7*. td. 

MILNE (James). 
Tables of Exchange for the 

Conversion of Sterling Money into 
Indian and Ceylon Currency, at 
Rates from is. Zd. to 2s, 3a. per 
Rupee. Second Edition. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price £2 2s. 

MOCKLER (E.). 

A Grammar of the Baloo- 
chee Language, as it is spoken in 
Makran (Ancient Gedrosia), in the 
Persia-Arabic and Roman characters. 
Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 



MOFFAT (Robert Scott). 

The Economy of Consump- 
tion ; an Omitted Chapter in Political 
Economy, with special reference to 
the Questions of Commercial Crises 
and the Policy of Trades Unions; 
and with Reviews of the Theories of 
Adam Smith, Ricardo, J. S. Mill, 
Fawcett, &c Demy 8vo. Cloth, 
price iSs. 

The Principles of a Time 

Policy : being an Exposition of a 
Method of Settling Disputes between T 
Employers and Employed in regard 
to Time and Wages, by a simple Pro- 
cess of Mercantile Barter, without 
recourse to Strikes or Locks-out. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. 

MORELL (J. R.). 
Euclid Simplified in Me- 
thod and Language. Being a 
Manual of Geometry. Compiled from, 
the most important ^ French Works, 
approved by the University of Paris 
and the Minister of Public Instruc- 
tion. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2*. 6d, 

MORSE (E. S'), Ph.D. 
First Book of Zoology. 

With numerous Illustrations. New 
and cheaper edition. Crown Svo. 
Cloth, price 2s. 6d. 

MORSHEAD (E. D. A.) 
The House of Atreus. 

Being the Agamemnon Libation- 
Bearers and Furies of iEschylus 
Translated into English Verse. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 

MUNRO (Major-Gen. Sir Tho- 
mas), K.C.B., Governor of 
Madras. 
Selections from His 

Minutes, and other Official Writings. 
Edited, with an Introductory Me- 
moir, by Sir Alexander Arbuthnot, 
K.GS.I., CLE. Two vols. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 30s. 

NAAKE (J. T.). 
Slavonic Fairy Tales. 

From Russian, Servian, Polish, and 
Bohemian Sources. With Four Illus- 
trations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

NELSON (J. H.). 

A Prospectus of the Scien- 
tific Study of the Hindu Law. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 9*. 



Kegan Paut, Trench , &» Co.'s Publications. 21 



NEWMAN (J. H.), D.D. 
Characteristics from the 

Writings of. Being Selections 
from his various Works. Arranged 
with the Author's personal approval. 
Third Edition. With Portrait. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6*. 
* # * A Portrait of the Rev. Dr. J. H. 
Newman, mounted for framing, can 
be had. price zs. 6d. 

NICHOLAS (Thomas), Ph.D., 
F.G.S. 

The Pedigree of the English 

People: an Argument, Historical 
and Scientific, on the Formation and 
Growth of the Nation, tracing Race- 
admixture in Britain from the earliest 
times, with especial reference to the 
incorporation of the Celtic Abori- 
gines. Fifth Edition. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price its. 

NICHOLSON (Edward Byron). 

The Christ Child, and other 
Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
4s. 6d 

The Rights of an Animal. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. 

The Gospel according to 
the Hebrews. Its Fragments trans- 
lated and annotated, with a critical 
Analysis of the External and Internal 
Evidence relating to it. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price gs. 6d. 

A New Commentary on 
the Gospel according to Mat- 
thew. Demy fcvo. Clotn, price 12$. 

NICOLS (Arthur;, F.G.S., 
F.R.G.S. 

Chapters from the Physical 

History of the Earth. * An Introduc- 
tion to Geology and Palaeontology, 
with numerous illustrations. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

NOAKE (Major R. Compton). 

The Bivouac ; or, Martial 
Lyrist, with an Appendix — Advice to 
the Soldier. Fcap. 8vo. Price 5*. 6d. 

NOEL (The Hon. Roden). 
A Little Child's Monument. 

Third Edition. Small crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 3*. td. 



NORMAN PEOPLE (The). 
The Norman People, and 

their Existing Descendants in the 
British Dominions and the United 
States of America. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2 ix. 

NORRIS (Rev. Alfred). 
The Inner and Outer Life 
Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

Notes on Cavalry Tactics, 
Organization, &c. By a Cavalry 
Officer. With Diagrams. Demy8vo. 
Cloth, price 12*. 

Nuces : Exercises on the 
Syntax of the Public School 
Latin Primer. New Edition in 
Three Parts. Crown 8vo. Each ix. 

\* The Three Parts can also be 
had bound together in cloth, price 3s. 

OATES (Frank), F.R.G.S. 
Matabele Land and the 
Victoria Falls : A Naturalist's 
Wanderings in the Interior of 
South Africa. Edited by C. G. 
Oates, B.A., with numerous illus- 
trations and four maps. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 21s. 

O'BRIEN (Charlotte G.). 
Light and Shade. 2 vols. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, gilt tops, price 
12s. 

Ode of Life (The). 
Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, 
price 5*. 

OF THE IMITATION OF 
CHRIST. Four Books. Cabinet 
Edition, price is. and is. 6d., cloth; 
Miniature Edition, price is. 



* # 

* 



Also in various bindings. 



O'HAGAN (John). 
The Song of Roland. Trans- 
lated into English Verse. Large 
post 8vo. Parchment antique, price 
zox. 6d. 

O'MEARA (Kathleen). 
Frederic Ozanam, Professor 

of the Sorbonne ; His Life and 
Works. Second Edition. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 6d. 

Henri Perreyve and His 
Counsels to the Sick. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. 



Cloth, price it. 6d- 
Our Public Schools. Eton, 
Harrow, Winchester. Rusby, West- 



PARCHMENT LIBRARY (Tbe) 

Tennyson's Tbe Princess : 

a Medley- With a Miniature Fron- 
tispiece ty li. M. Paget, and aTail- 
piece in Outline by Gordon Browne. 
Poems : Selected from Percy 

Eysshe Shelley. Dedicated to I ,ady 
Shelley. With Preface by Richard 



Keats. 



Study. 



1 of Sail 



OWEN (Rev. Robert), B.D. 
Sanctorale Catholicum ; or 
Book of Saints. With Notes, Criti- 
cal, Exegetical, and Historical. 
Demy Eyo. Cloth, price 181. 
An Essay on tbe Commu- 
" "icludingaa 

PALQRAVE (W. Gifford). 
Hermann Agha ; An Eastern 
Narrative. Third and Cheaper Edi- 
tion. Crown a™. Cloth, price 61. 

PANDURANG HARI ; 

Or, Memoirs of a Hindoo. 

With an Introductory Preface by Sir 
H. Bartle E. Frere, G.C.S.I., CB. 



Tennyson's "In Memo 
Ham." With a Miniature Portrai 
in em forte by Le Rar, after 
Photograph by the late Mrs. Cam< 



H if «■ t, -. 



. Second Edi- 



tion. Demy Sto. Cloth, pries 19 
A Sketch of the Kafir and 



«™T D Cloth,i 

Tbe 



Horses, and 

Infantry and Staff 
Jim 8vo. Cloth, 






'S'S Rates^&c 



y by 



Shakspere's Sonnets. 

Edited by Edward Dowden. With 
■ Frontispiece, etched by Leopold 
Lowenstam, after the Death Mask. 

English Odes. Selected by 

Edmund W. Gosse. With t'rontis- 
Thomycroft, A.R.A. 

OF THE IMITATION 
Or CHRIST. Four Books. A 



STw" 



>er. fro i 



Rates, Sc, and a Chapter on Rail- 
way Reform. Crown Svu. Cloth, 

PATTISON (Mrs. Hark). 
The Renaissance of Art in 

France. With Nineteen Steel 
Engravings, a vols. Demy Bro. 
doth, price yu. 



an). 



Letter" 



tolml 



aft. 



tarn Ant, by Anna Lea Menitt. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, priced. 
Goethe's Faust. A New 
Translation in Rime. Crown 8vc 
Cloth, price 61. 



Kegan Paul, Trench, 6* Co.'s Publications. 23 



PAUL (C. Kcg*ny— continued. 
William Godwin : His 
Friends and Contemporaries. 
With Portraits and Facsimiles of the 
Handwriting of Godwin and his 
Wife. 2 vols. Square post 8vo. 
Cloth, price. 28*. 

The Genius of Christianity 

U nveiled. Being Essays by William 
Godwin never before published. 
Edited, with a Preface, by C. 
Kegan Paul. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 7*. 6d. 

PAUL (Margaret Agnes). 
Gentle and Simple : A Story. 
2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, gilt tops, 
price iu. 

*** Also a Cheaper Edition in one 
vol. with Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price dr. 

PAYNE (John). 
Songs of Life and Death. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

PAYNE (Prof. J. P.). 
Frobel and the Kindergar- 
ten System. Second Edition. 

A Visit to German Schools : 
Elementary Schools in Ger- 
many. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
4$. 6d. 

PELLETAN (E.). 
The Desert Pastor, Jean 

Jarousseau. Translated from the 
French. By Colonel E. P. De 
L'Hoste. With a Frontispiece. New 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 
3*. 6d. 

PEN NELL (H. Cholmondeley). 
Pegasus Resaddled. By 

the Author of " Puck on Pegasus," 
&c &c. With Ten Full-page Illus- 
trations by George Du Manner. 
Second Edition. Fcap. 4to. Cloth 
elegant, price m. 6d. 

PENRICE (Maj. J.), B.A. 

A Dictionary and Glossary 

of the Ko-ran. With copious Gram- 
matical References and Explanations 
of the Text. 4to. Cloth, price 21s, 

PESCHEL (Dr. Oscar). 
The Races of Man and 
their Geographical Distribution. 
Large crown 8vo. Cloth, price 9*. 



PETERS (P. H.). 
The Nicomachean Ethics 

of Aristotle. Translated by. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

PPEIFFER (Emily). 
Under the Aspens. Lyrical 

and Dramatic. Crown 8vo. With 
Portrait. Cloth, price 6s. 

Quarterman's Grace, and 
other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 5*. 

Glan Alarch: His Silence 
and Song. A Poem. Second 
Edition. Crown 8vo. price 6s. 

Gerard's Monument, and 
other Poems. Second Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

Poems. Second Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

Sonnets and Songs. New 

Edition. i6mo, handsomely printed 
and bound in cloth, gilt edges, price 

PIKE (Warburton). 
The Inferno 01 Dante Ali- 
ghieri. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

PINCHES (Thomas), M.A. 
Samuel Wilberf orce : Faith 
— Service — Recompense. Three 
Sermons. With a Portrait of Bishop 
Wilberforce (after a Photograph by 
Charles Watkins). Crown 8 vo. Cloth, 
price 4J. 6d. 

PLAYFAIR (Lieut. . Col.), Her 
Britannic Majesty's Consul-General 
in Algiers. 

Travels in the Footsteps of 
Bruce in Algeria and Tunis.* 
Illustrated by facsimiles of Brace's 
original Drawings, Photographs, 
Maps, &c. Royal Ato. Cloth, 
bevelled boards, gilt leaves, price 
^3 3*- 

POLLOCK (Frederick). 
Spinoza. His Life and Phi- 
losophy. Demy 8vo. Cloth, 
price i6x. 

POLLOCK (W. H.). 

Lectures on French Poets. 

Delivered at the Royal Institution. 
Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 



POUSHKIN (A. S.)- 
Russian Romano 

Translated from [he Taj es of Belki 



PULPIT COMMENTARY(Tne) 
Numbers. By the Rev. R. 

Winterbo.him,LL.B. Willi Homilies 
by the Rev. Prof. W. l!mmc, D.D, 
Rev. E. S. From, M.A.. Rev. D. 
Young, Rev. J. Wai.e, and an In- 
troduction by the Rev. Thomas 
Whitela*, M.A- Third Edition. 
Price 151. 

ioahua. By the Rev. T. J. 
ins, M.A. With Homilies by the 






1. Cloth, p 



•j.td. 



PRICE (Prof. Bonnmy]. 

Currency and Banking. 

Crown Svo. Cloth, price 61. 

Chapters on Practical Poli- 
tical Economy. Being the Sub- 
nance of Lectures delivered before 
the University of Oxford. Large 
post Svo. Cloth, price rai. 

Proteus and Artistic us, A 



PUBLIC SCHOOLBOY. 
The Volunteer, the Militia- 
Crown Bvo. Cloth, prica $*. 

PULPIT COMMENTARY (The). 
Edited by the Rev. J. S. EXSU and 
the Rev. Canon li. D. M. SpenCJU 

Genesis. By Rev. T. White- 
law, M.A. ; with Homilies by the 
Very Rev. J, F. Montgomery, D.D., 
Rev. Prof. R. A. Bedford, M.A., 
LL.B., Rev. F. Hastings. Rev. W. 
Roberts, M.A. An Introduction to 
the Study of the Old Testament by 
the Rev. Canon Farrar, D.D., 
F.R.S. ; and Inlroductiont to the 
Pentateuch by the Right Rev. H. 
Cotterill, D.D., and Rev. T. White- 
law, M.A. Fifth Edition. Price 



Judges and Ruth. By Right 
Rev. Lord A. C. Hcrvey, D.U., and 

Rev. J. Morrison, D.D. With Ho- 
milies by Rev. A. F. Mow, M.A. ; 
Rev. \V, F. Adeney, M.A. ; Rev. 
W. M. Statham ; and Rev. Prof. J. 
R. Thomson, M.A. Third Edition. 
Cloth, price 1 jr. 

I Samuel. By the Very Rev. 

R. P. Smith, D.D. With Homilies 
by the Rev. Donald Frawr, D.D., 
Rev. Prof. Chapman, and Rev. B. 
Dale. Fourth Edition. Price ij». 
t Kings. By the Rev. Joseph 
Hammond, LL.B. With Homilies 
by the Rev, E. de Pressensi, D.D., 



and Re, 
Ezra 
Esthei 



itL.B,Rei 



J. LTrq, 



J A. Macdoualt 



.iarkson, B.A., Rov. 
F. Haslings, Rev. W. Dinwiddle, 
LL.B., Rev. Prof. Rowlands, B.A., 



Punjaub (The) and North 

Western Frontier of India. By an 
old Punjaubsa. down Svo. Cloth, 



Kegan Paul y Trench, 6* Co.'s Publications. 



*5 



RADCLIFFE (Frank R. Y.). 
The New Politicus. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price is. bd. 

RAVENSHAW Qohn Henry), 
B.C.S. 

Gaur: Its Ruins and In- 
scriptions. Edited with consider- 
able additions and alterations by his 
Widow. With forty-four photo- 
graphic illustrations and twenty-live 
fac -similes of Inscriptions. Super 
royal 4to. Cloth, 3/. 13*. bd. 

READ (Carveth). 
On the Theory of Logic : 

An Essay. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6*. 

Realities of the Future Life. 

Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
is. bd. 

REANEY (Mrs. O. S.). 
Blessing ' and Blessed ; a 

Sketch of Girl Life. New and 
cheaper Edition. With a frontis- 
piece. Crown 8 vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. 

Waking and Working ; or, 
from Girlhood to Womanhood. 

New and cheaper edition. With a 
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. bd. 

Rose Gurney's Discovery. 
A Book for Girls, dedicated to their 
Mothers. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
3*. bd. 

English Girls : their Place 
and Power. With a Preface by 
R. W. Dale, M.A., of Birmingham. 
Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, 
price 2s. bd. 

Just Anyone, and other 

Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal 
z6mo. Cloth, price is. 6d. 

Sunshine Jenny and other 
Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal 
z6mo. Cloth, price is. bd. 

Sunbeam Willie, and other 
Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal 
i6mo. Cloth, price is. bd. 

RENDALL (J. M.). 
Concise Handbook of the 
Island of Madeira. With plan of 
Funchal and map of the Island. Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, price is. bd. 



REYNOLDS (Rev. J. W.). 
The Supernatural in Na- 
ture. A Verification bjr Free Use of 
Science. Second Edition, revised 
and enlarged. Demy 8vo. Cloth, 
price 14s. 

Mystery of Miracles, The. 

By the Author of *' The Supernatural 
in Nature." New and Enlarged 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
bs. 

RHOADES (Tames). 
The Georgics of Virgil. 

Translated into English Verse. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. 

RIBOT (Prof. Th.). 
English Psychology. Se- 
cond Edition. A Revised and Cor- 
rected Translation from the latest 
French Edition. Large post 8vo. 
Cloth, price 9* 

Heredity : A Psychological 
Study on its Phenomena, its Laws, 
its (Causes, and its Consequences. 
Large crown 8vo. Cloth, price ox. 

RINK (Chevalier Dr. Henry). 
Greenland : Its People and 
its Products. By the Chevalier 
Dr. Henry Rink, President of the 
Greenland Board of Trade. With 
sixteen Illustrations, drawn by the 
Eskimo, and a Map. Edited by Dr. 
Robert Brown. Crown 8vo. Price 
iox. bd. 

ROBERTSON (The Late Rev. 
F. W.>, M.A., of Brighton. 
The Human Race, and 

other Sermons preached at Chelten- 
ham, Oxford, and Brighton. Second 
Edition. Large post 8vo. Cloth, 
price 7s. bd. 

Notes on Genesis. New 

and cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo., 
price 3*. bd. 

Sermons. Four Series. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. bd. each. 

Expository Lectures on 
St. Paul's Epistles to the Co- 
rinthians. A New Edition. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. 

Lectures and Addresses, 

with other literary remains. A New 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 



A List of 



tM alio U had 



An Analysis of Mr. 'fenny- 
eon's "In Ncmoritffl," (Dedi- 

Lanreate.) Fcap. Bvo. Cloth, price si. 

The Education of the 
Human Ran. Translated from 
the German uf Gotthold Ephraitn 
Losing. Fcap. Bvo. Cloth, price 
ai. 6J. 

Life and Letters. Edited by 
the Rev. Stopford Brooke, M.A., 
Chaplain in Ordinary to the Queen. 

I. s vols., uniform with the Ser- 
mon*. With Steel Portrait Crown 
Bvo. Cloth, price 71. td. 

II. Library Edition, in Demy Bvo., 
with Portrait. Cloth, pries ill. 

III. A Popular Edition, in one voL 
Crown Eve. Cloth, p 

The above Worii c 
haif-baund in morocco. 
',' A Portrait of the late Rev. F. W. 
Robertson, mounted for framing, can 
. be had, price u- bit. 
ROBINSON (A. Mary P.). 
A Handful of Honey- 
■ ucklc. Fcap. Bvo. Cloth, price 
31. tat 
The Crowned Hippolytus. 

New Poems. Small crown Bvo. 



(Q. F.), F.B.A.3., 

Etna ; a History of the 
Mountain and Ita Eruptions. 
With Maps and Illustrations. Square 
8vo. Cloth, price or . 
KOLLESTON (T. W. H-), B.A. 

The Encheiridion of Epic- 



8ALTS(Rev. Alfred), LL.D. 
Godparents at Confirma- 
tion. With a Preface by the Bishop 



8 A L V A T R (Archduke L-udwig). 
Levkosia, the Capital of 
Cypnia. CrownSvo. Cloth, price 



Jewish Life in the 1 

SAUNDERS (John). 
Israel Mort, Overman : A 
Story of the Mine. Cr. Svo. Price 61. 



a Pic (tit.. 



elated from the Gr 
1 Notes * 



crown Bvo. Cloth, price jr. (J. 
ROSS (Mm. E.), ("Nelsie Brook"). 
Daddy's Pet. A Sketch 

from Humble Life. With St* Itlul. 
nations. Royal t6mo. Cloth, price n. 
SADLER (S. W.), R.N. 

The African Cruiser. A 

Midshipman's Adventures on the 
West Coast. With Three Illustra- 
tions. Second Edition. Clown Svo. 
Cloth, price 31. W. 



Cloth/price s 5 l. 



The Operations of the 

Firat Army under Gen. von 

Steinmeti. Translated by Captain 
E. O. IloUist. Demy Svo. Cloth, 
price tor. td. 

SUHELLENDDRF (MaJ.-Oen. 
B. von). 

The Duties of the General 
Staff. Translated from the German 
by Lieutenant Hare. VoL I. Demy 
Bvo. doth, rot. td. 

SCHERFF (Ma]. W. von). 
Studies m the New In- 
fantry Tactics. Parts I. and II. 
Translated from the German by 
Colonel Lmaley Graham. Demy 
Bvo. Cloth, price 7 r. td. 

Scientific Layman. The New 

Truth and the Old Faith I are they 
Incompatible! Demy Svo. Cloth, 



Kegan Paul, Trench, <5r* CoJs Publications. 27 



SCOONES (W. Baptiste). 
Four Centuries of English 
Letters. A Selection of 350 Letters 
by 150 Writers from the period of the 
Paston Lettersrto the Present Time. 
Edited and arranged by. Second 
Edition. Large crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price gs. 

SCOTT (Leader). 
A Nook in the Apennines: 
A Summer beneath the Chestnuts. 
With Frontispiece, and 27 Illustra- 
tions in the Text, chiefly from 
Original _ Sketches. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price js. 6d. Also a Cheap 
Edition, price 2s. 6d. 

SCOTT (Robert H.). 
Weather Charts and Storm 

Warnings. Illustrated. SecondEdi- 
tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

Seeking his Fortune, and 

other Stories. With Four Illustra- 
tions. New and cheaper Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. 

SENIOR (N. W.). 
Alexis De Tocqueville. 

Correspondence and Conversations 
with Nassau W. Senior, from 1833 to 
1859. Edited by M. CM. Simpson. 
2 vols. Large post 8vo.Cloth,price aif. 

Seven Autumn Leaves from 

Fairyland. Illustrated with Nine 
Etchings. Square crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. 6d. 

SHADWELL (Maj.-Gen.), C.B. 
Mountain Warfare. Illus- 
trated by the Campaign of 1799^ in 
Switzerland. Being a Translation 
of the Swiss Narrative compiled from 
the Works of the Archduke Charles, 

iomini, and others. Also of Notes 
y General H. Dufour on the Cam- 
paign of the Valtelline in 1635. With 
Appendix, Maps, and Introductory 
Remarks. Demy 8 vo. Cloth, price 16*. 

SHAKSPEARE (Charles). 
Saint Paul at Athens : 

Spiritual Christianity in Relation to 
some Aspects of Modern Thought. 
Nine Sermons preached at St. Ste- 
phen's Church, Westbourne Park. 
With Preface by the Rev. Canon 
Farrar. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 51. 



SHAW (Major Wilkinson). 
The Elements of Modern 

Tactics. Practically applied to 
English Formations. With Twenty- 
five Plates and Maps. Second and 
cheaper Edition. Small crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price gs. 

*** The Second Volume of "Mili- 
tary Handbooks for Officers and 
Non-commissioned Officers." Edited 
by Lieut. -Col. C. B. Brackenbury, 

SHAW (Flora L.). 
Castle Blair: a Story of 
Youthful Lives. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, gilt tops, price iax. Also, an 
dition in one vol. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

SHELLEY (Lady). 
Shelley Memorials from 
Authentic Sources. With (now 
first printed) an Essay on Christian- 
ity by Percy Bysshe Shelley. With 
Portrait Third Edition. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 5s. 

SHERMAN (Gen. W. T.). 
Memoirs of General W. 

T. Sherman, s Commander of the 
Federal Forces in the American Civil 
War. By Himself. 3 vols. With 
Map. Demy 8vo Cloth, price 24s. 
Copyright English Edition. 

SHILLITO (Rev. Joseph). 
Womanhood : its Duties, 
Temptations, and Privileges. A Book 
for Young Women. Second Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Price 3*. 6d. 

SHIPLEY (Rev. Orby), M.A. 
Principles of the Faith in 
Relation to Sin. Topics for 
Thought in Times of Retreat. 
Eleven Addresses. With an Intro- 
duction on the neglect of Dogmatic 
Theology in the Church of England, 
and a Postscript on his leaving the 
Church of England. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 12*. 

Church Tracts, or Studies 

in Modern Problems. By various 
Writers, a vols. Crown 8 vo. Cloth, 
price s*. each. 

Sister Augustine, Superior 

of the Sisters of Charity at the St. 
Johannis Hospital at Bonn. Autho- 
rized Translation by Hans Tharau 
from the German Memorials of Ama- 
lie von Lasaulx. Second edition. 
Large crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. 



28 



A List of 



Six Baliads about King 

Arthur. Crown 8vo. Cloth extia, 
gilt edges, price 3;. 6d. 

SKINNER (James). 
Ccelestia : the Manual of St. 

Augustine. The Latin Text side by 
side with an English Interpretation, 
in 36 Odes, with Notes, and a plea 
for the Study of Mystic Theology. 
Large crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

SMITH (Edward), M.D., LL.B., 
F.R.S. 

Health and Disease, as In- 
fluenced by the Daily, Seasonal, and 
other Cyclical Changes in the Human 
System. A New Edition. Post 8vo. 
Cloth, price 7s. 6d. 

Practical Dietary for 
Families, Schools, and the La- 
bouring Classes. A New Edition. 
Post 8vo. Cloth, price 31. 6d. 

Tubercular Consumption 
in its Early and Remediable 
Stages. Second Edition. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 6*. 

Songs of Two Worlds. By 

the Author of " The Epic of Hades." 
Sixth Edition. Complete in one 
Volume, with Portrait. Fcap. 8vo. 
Cloth, price 7*. 6d. 

Songs for Music. 
By Four Friends. Square crown 
8vo. Cloth, price «. 
Containing songs by Reginald A. 
Gatty, Stephen H. Gatty, Greville 
J. Chester, and Juliana Ewing. 

SPEDDINO Qames). 
Evenings with a Reviewer; 
or, Bacon and Macaulay. With 
a Prefatory Notice by G. S. Ven- 
ablbs, Q.C. 3 vols. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 18*. 

Reviews and Discussions, 
Literary, Political, and His- 
torical, not relating to Bacon. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. 6d. 

STAPFER (Paul). 
Shakspeare and Classical 
Antiquity : Greek and Latin Anti- 



STAPFER (Paul)— -continued. 

fuity as presented in Shakspeare's 
'lays. Translated by Emily J. Carey. 
Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. 

St. Bernard on the Love 

of God. Translated by Marianne 
Caroline and Coventry Patmore. 
Cloth extra, gilt top, price 4?. 6d. 

STEDMAN (Edmund Clarence). 

Lyrics and Idylls. With 
other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price ys. 6d. 



STEPHENS 
LL.D. 



(Archibald John), 



The Folkestone Ritual 

Case. The Substance of the Argu- 
ment delivered before the Judicial 
Committee of the Privy Council. On 
behalf of the Respondents. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 6*. 

STEVENSON (Robert Louis). 

Virginibus, Puerisque, and 
other Papers. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

STEVENSON (Rev. W. F.). 
Hymns for the Church and 
Home. Selected and Edited by the 
Rev. W. Fleming Stevenson. 

The most complete Hymn Book 
published. 

The Hymn Book consists of Three 
Parts:— I. For Public Worship.— 
• II. For Family and Private Worship. 
—III. For Children. 

%* Published in various forms and 
Prices, the loiter ranging from Sd. 
to 6s. Lists and full particulars 
will be furnished on application to 
the Publishers. 

STOCKTON (Frank R.). 

A Jolly Fellowship. With 
20 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 5s. 

STORR (Francis), and TURNER 
Hawes). 

Canterbury Chimes ; or, 
Chaucer Tales retold to Children. 
With Illustrations from the Elles- 
mere MS. Extra Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. 6d. 



IO 



Kegan Pau/, Tretich, 6* Co.'s Publications. 29 



Strecker-Wishcenus's Orga- 
nic Chemistry. Translated and 
edited with extensive additions by 
W. R. Hodgkinson, Ph. D., and 
A. J. Green way, F.I.C. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2 if. 

STRETTON (Hesba). 
David Lloyd's Last Will. 

With Four Illustrations. Royal 
i6mo., price m. 6d. 

The Wonderful Life. 

Thirteenth Thousand. Fcap. 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2s. 6d. 

Through a Needle's Eye : 
a Story. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
6s. 

STUBBS (Lieut.-Colonel F. W.) 
The Regiment of Bengal 
Artillery. The ^ History of its 
Organization, Equipment, and War 
Services. Compiled from Published 
Works, Official Records, and various 
Private Sources. With numerous 
Maps and Illustrations. 3 vols. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 32*. 

STUMM (Lieut. Hugo), German 
Military Attache* to the Khivan Ex- 
pedition. 

Russia's advance East- 
ward. Based on the Official Reports 
of. Translated by Capt. C. E. H. 
Vincent. With Map. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price dr. 

SULLY (James), M.A. 
Sensation and Intuition. 

Demy 8vo. Second Edition. Cloth, 
price 10*. 6d. 

Pessimism : a History and 
a Criticism. Demy 8vo. Price 14*. 

Sunnyland Stories. 

By the Author of "Aunt Mary's Bran 
Pie." Illustrated. Small 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3s. 6d 

Sweet Silvery Sayings of 

Shakespeare. Crown 8vo. Cloth 
gilt, price js. td. 

SYME (David). 
Outlines of an Industrial 

Science. Second Edition. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 



SYME (David)— continued. 

Representative Govern- 
ment in England. Its Faults and 
Failures. Large crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

Tales from Ariosto. Retold for 

Children, by a Lady. With three 
illustrations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 4s. 6d. 

TAYLOR (Algernon). 

Guienne. Notes of an Autumn 
Tour. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4*. 6d. 

TAYLOR (Sir H.). 

Works Complete. Author's 
Edition, in 5 vols. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 6s. each. 

Vols. I. to III. containing the 
Poetical Works, Vols. IV. and V. 
the Prose Works. 

TAYLOR (Col. Meadows), C.S.I., 
M.R.I. A. 

A Noble Queen : a Romance 

of Indian History. New Edition. 
With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth. Price 6s. 

Seeta. New Edition with 

frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price ox. 

Tippoo Sultaun : a Tale of 

the Mysore War. New Edition with 
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

Ralph Darnell. New Edi- 
tion. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 6s. 

The Confessions of a Thug. 

New Edition. With Frontispiece. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6*. 

Tara : a Mahratta Tale. 

New Edition. With Frontispiece. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6*. 

TENNYSON (Alfred). 

The Imperial Library Edi- 
tion. Complete in 7 vols. Demy8vo. 
Cloth, price £3 13s. 6d. ; in Rox- 
burgh binding, £\ js. 6d. 

Author's Edition. Complete 

in 7 Volumes. With Frontispieces. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 43$. 6d. 
Roxburgh half morocco, price 54*. 



3° 



A List of 



TENNYSON (AUrtdy-cmtiuued. 
Cabinet Edition, in 13 vols. 

with Frontispieces. Fcap. 8vo. 
Cloth, price as. 6^. each, or com- 
plete in cloth box, price 35*. 

# # * Each volume in the above edi- 
tions may be had separately. 

The Royal Edition. With 

26 Illustrations and Portrait. Cloth 
extra, bevelled boards, gilt leaves. 
Price 2 1 j. 

The Guinea Edition. In 

14 vols., neatly bound and enclosed 
in box. Cloth, price 21s. French 
morocco or parchment, price 31*. 6d. 

The Shilling Edition of the 
Poetical and Dramatic Works, in 12 
vols., pocket size. Price is. each. 

The Crown Edition [the 

1 1 8th thousand], strongly bound in 
cloth, price 6s. Cloth, extra gilt 
leaves, price 7*. 6d. Roxburgh, 
half morocco, price 8*. 6d. 

*«* Can also be had in a variety 
of other bindings. 

Original Editions : 
Ballads and other Poems. 

Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

The Lover's Tale. (Now 

for the first ti-me published.) Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, 3$. 6d. 

Poems. Small 8vo. Cloth, 

price 6s. 

Maud, and other Poems. 
Small 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. 

The Princess. Small 8vo. 
Cloth, price 3s. 6d. 

Idylls of the King. Small 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

Idylls of the King. Com- 
plete. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

The Holy Grail, and other 
Poems. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 
4*. 6d. 

Gareth and Lynette. Small 

8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 

Enoch Arden, &c. Small 

8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. 



TENNYSON (Alfred)-continued. 

In Memoriam. Small 8vo. 
Cloth, price as. 

Queen Mary. A Drama. 

New Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 6s. 

Harold. A Drama. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

Selections from Tenny. 

son's Works. Super royal x6mo. 
Cloth, price 3*. 6d. Cloth gilt extra, 
price 4s. 

Songs from Tennyson's 

Works. Super royal z6mo. Cloth 
extra, price 3s. 6d. 

Also a cheap edition. z6mo. 
Cloth, price as. 6d. 

Idylls of the King, and 

other Poems. Illustrated by Julia 
Margaret Cameron. 2 vols. Folio. 
Half-bound morocco, cloth sides, 
price £6 6s. each. 

Tennyson for the Young and 

for Recitation. Specially arranged. 
Fcap. 8vo. Price if. 6d. 

Tennyson Birthday Book. 

Edited by Emily Shakespear. 32010. 
Cloth limp, as. ; cloth extra, 3*. 

* # * A superior edition, printed in 
red and black, on antique paper, 
specially prepare d. Small crown 8vo. 
Cloth extra, gilt leaves, price 5s. ; 
and in various calf and morocco 
bindings. 

Songs Set to Music, by 

various Composers. Edited by W. 
G. Cusins. Dedicated by express 
permission to Her Majesty the 
Queen. Royal 4to. Cloth extra, 
gilt leaves, price ais. t or in half- 
morocco, price 25$. 

An Index to " In Memo- 
riam." Price as. 

THOMAS (Moy). 
A Fight for Life. With 

Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. 6d. 

THOMPSON (Alice C). 
Preludes. A Volume of 

Poems. Illustrated by Elizabeth 
Thompson (Painter of "The Roll 
Call"). 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. 6d. 



Kegan Paul, Trench, 6* Co.'s Publications. 31 



THOMSON (J. Turnbull). 
Social Problems ; or, an In- 
quiry into the Law of Influences. 
With Diagrams. Demy 8vo. Cloth, 
price xoj. 6d. 

THRING (Rev. Godfrey), B.A. 
Hymns and Sacred Lyrics. 

Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3* . 6d. 
TODHUNTER (Dr. J.) 
Forest Songs. Small crown 

8vo. Cloth, 3$. 6d. 

The True Tragedy of 

Rienzi. A Drama. 

A Study of Shelley. Crown 

8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 

Alcestis : A Dramatic Poem. 

Extra fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. 

Laurella; and other Poems. 

Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6*. 6d. 

Translations from Dante, 
Petrarch, Michael Angelo, and 
Vittoria Colonna. Fcap. 8vo. 
Cloth, price 7s. 6d. 

TURNER (Rev. C. Tennyson). 
Sonnets, Lyrics, and Trans- 
lations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
4s. 6d. 
Collected Sonnets, Old and 

New. WithPrefatory Poem by Alfred 
Tennyson ; also some Marginal Notes 
by S..T. Coleridge, and a Critical 
Essay by James Spedding. Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, price 7-s. 6d. 

TWINING (Louisa). 
Recollections of Work- 
house Visiting and Manage- 
ment during twenty-five years. 
Small crdwn 8vo. Cloth, price y . 6d. 

UPTON (Major R. D.). 
Gleanings from the Desert 
of Arabia. Large post 8vo. Cloth, 
price xos. 6d. 

VAUGHAN (H. Halford). 

New Readings and Ren- 
derings of Shakespeare's Tra- 
gedies. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, 
price 25*. 
VIATOR (Vacuus). 

Flying South. Recollections 
of France and its Littoral. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. 
ViLLARI (Prof.). 
Niccolo Machiavelli and 

His Times. Translated by Linda 
Villari. 2 vols. Large post 8vo. 
Cloth, price 24$. 



VINCENT (Capt. C. E. H.). 
Elementary Military 
Geography, Reconnoitring, and 
Sketching.. Square crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2*. 6d. 

VYNER (Lady Mary). 
Every day a Portion. 

Adapted from the Bible and the 
Prayer Book. Square crown 8vo. 
Cloth extra, price 5s. 

WALDSTEIN (Charles), Ph. D. 
The Balance of Emotion 
and Intellect : An Essay Intro- 
ductory to the Study of Philosophy. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 

WALLER (Rev. C. B.) 
The Apocalypse, Reviewed 

under the Light of the Doctrine of 
the Unfolding Ages and the Resti- 
tution of all Things. Demy 8vo. 
Cloth, price 12s. 

WALS HE (Walter Hayle), M.D. 
Dramatic Singing Physio- 
logically Estimated. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 3s . 6d. 

WALTERS (Sophia Lydia). 
The Brook: A Poem. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

A Dreamer's Sketch Book. 

With Twenty-one ^ Illustrations. 
Fcap. 4to. Cloth, price 12s. 6d. 

WATERFIELD, W. 

Hymns for Holy Days and 

Seasons, ^mo. Cloth, price is. 6d, 

WATSON (Sir Thomas), Bart., 
M.D. 

The Abolition of Zymotic 

Diseases, and of other similar ene- 
mies of Mankind. Small crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 3$. 6d. 

WAY (A.), M.A. 
The Odes of Horace Lite- 
rally Translated in Metre. Fcap. 
8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 

WEBSTER (Augusta). 
Disguises. A Drama. Small 
crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s . 

WEDMORE (Frederick). 
The Masters of Genre 

Painting. With sixteen illustrations. 
Large crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
7$. 6d. 



32 A List of Kcgan Paul, Trench^ &* Co.*s Publications, 



WHEWELL (William), D.D. 
His Life and Selections 
from his Correspondence. By 
Mrs. Stair Douglas. With Portrait. 
Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 21s. 

WHITAKER (Florence). 
Christy's Inheritance. A 

London Story. Illustrated. Royal 
z6mo. Cloth, price is. 6d. 

WHITE (A. D.), LL.D. 
Warfare of Science. With 
Prefatory Note by Professor Tyndall. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 
price 3*. td. 

WHITNEY (Prof. W. D.) 
Essentials of English 
Grammar for the Use of Schools. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

WICKSTEED (P. H.). 
Dante : Six Sermons. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price 5*. 

WILKIN S (William). 
Songs of Study. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 6s. 

WILLIAMS (Rowland), D.D. 
Stray Thoughts from his 
Note-Books. Edited by his Widow. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

Psalms, Litanies, Coun- 
sels and Collects for Devout 
Persons. Edited by his Widow. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. 

WILLIS (R.),M.D. 
Servetus and Calvin : a 

Study of an Important Epoch inthe 
Early History of the Reformation. 
8vo. Cloth, price 16*. 

William Harvey. A History 
of the Discovery of the Circula- 
tion of the Blood. With a Portrait 
of Harvey, after Faithorne. Demy 
8vo. Cloth, price 14J. 

WILSON (Sir Erasmus). 
Egypt of the Past. With 
Illustrations in the Text. Crown 
8vo. Cloth, price im. 

WILSON (H. Schutz). 
The Tower and Scaffold. 
Large fcap. 8vo. Price is. 



Within Sound of the Sea 

By the Author of " Blue Roses," 
" Vera," &c. Fourth Edition in one 
vol. with frontispiece. Price 6s. 

WOLLSTONECRAFT (Mary). 
Letters to Imlay. With a 

Preparatory Memoir by C. Kegan 
Paul, and two Portraits in eau forte 
by Anna Lea Merritt. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 6s. 

WOLTMANN (Dr. Alfred), and 
WOERMANN(Dr. Karl). 
History of Painting in An- 
tiquity and the Middle Ages. 
Edited by Sidney Colvin. With nu- 
merous illustrations. Medium 8vo. 
Cloth, price 28$. ; cloth, bevelled 
boards, gilt leaves, price 30s. 

WOOD (Major-General J. Creigh- 
ton). 
Doubling the Consonant. 

Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price is. 6d. 

Word was made Flesh. 

Short Family Readings on the 
Epistles for each Sunday of the 
Christian Year. Demy 8vo. Cloth, 
price 10* . 6d. 

Wren (Sir Christopher); his 
Family and his Times. With 
Original Letters, and a Discourse 
on Architecture hitherto unpub- 
lished. Bv Lucy Phillimork. Demy 
8vo. With Portrait, price 14s. 

WRIGHT (Rev. David), M.A. 
Waiting for the Light, and 
other Sermons. Crown 8 vo. Cloth* 
price dr. 

YOUMANS (Eliza A.). 
An Essay on the Culture 
of the Observing Powers of 
Children. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 
2*. 6d. 

First Book of Botany. 

With 300 Engravings. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price 2s. 6d. 

YOUMANS (Edward L.), M.D. 
A Class Book of Chemistry. 

With 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 
Cloth, price ss. 



London :— Kegan Paul, Trench, & Co., 1, Paternoster Square. 







; . . ■ .-* 



I 



